The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THERE'S A NEW wimiji COMIW 
NOTBK DAifK 
MARCH-APRIL 1970 



Happenings 
As this issue of the ALUMNUS makes its way around the country and the world to the Men of Notre Dame, we here are quite thankful to be emerging from the grip of another long, cold Northern Indiana winter. The icicles have begun to drop from the eaves, the rippling waters of the Lakes St. Mary and St Joseph are visible again, save on the days when Old Man Winter decides to pay a fleeting curtain call. Small buds are beginning to appear on bare branches and that slight hint of green is returning to nature's carpet. 
Though it has been cold and snowy much of the time here, in recent months, life under the Golden Dome has been happening at a rapid pace. Much of that life and what its implications have been is reflected on the pages within. 
We have taken our turn at discussing the environment with the able assistance of Jean Horiszny of the Information Services Office. Jean's bag is science and technology and she adroitly explains in our feature article what ND's scientists and technicians are attempting to do to save our environment. 
Ticket Manager Don Bouffard takes his first turn at explaining football ticket priorities and policies for the upcoming season. Don indicates that athletic department personnel learned a lot from the trip down Dallas way, a few months back. Here's hoping we all get a chance to find out just what it was they learned — say in a place like Miami, about Jan. 1, 1971. 
We also offer an interesting discussion of the merits and shortcomings of the ROTC program, particularly as it relates to life in a university. Ed Smith, a senior ROTC cadet, and Bill Mitchell, a junior theology major who doubles as a staff writer for this magazine, present two views of the situation. 
In addition, there's the usual fare of campus news, sports. Class Notes, and a good serving of Alumni Ask. 
In closing let me say that we were somewhat surprised at the return on our special enclosure in the last issue. Alumni Association President Don O'Brien gave the alumni body an opportunity to speak out on any issue that suited you. So far our returns have not yet reached the .002 of a per cent mark. Wouldn't you be surprised too? 
Peace. 
Tom. Sullivan Managing Editor 
INimSBSUE 

Fa*R „ _..... jp. 1 ChbNcvn UplwBBiify :.. .f. 4 OBI 
News—....- .p. IC 
SAoois . .p, 37 Ahnui AA .p. 47 

jCcnrer Ulnstntioii: @ 1969 The New York Timet Company. Reprinted wUk 
V«L4S N«.2 
Java D. Coooer '39 
EaconvB SiatR*Br 
Aumn AnooAtioii 
Edtnr TomSJSmm 'CS 
Mauenn tantm 
Sairirm UMdaole 
AnimiiT Emot Jobi McDcnwlt '70 
iS-: 1 ICickdl '71 
r Vaa Drr Gncfat '(O
•AsnsTAMis 
M. Brace Hnfaa ' « 
CaiiF ftiuiuMunm 
AUnniNI AaBOCIAimN OFnCXBS Lcnuid H. Slugliiad '38 
. BbMOMnr Bmniii DOMU F. <yiria'42 
W»her U. U^oiJ '30 
•'.
 Vm-Fkssnnn'"' 

W.
 Jcnae K«ie '3S 


SwarVtMimaix 
Fmcs J. warn'2> VKB-RUOaiT. Jiuti D.'Cooaty '59 
CuuuiivE r

llfUad E. Jofdaa •« : 
';. AsnmMT.SKacDunr.' 
DUECimB iO! 1971 W^ JirnM Kuw % (&DS Acnvmn) P.O. > K 3707. Scatde; Wuh. 91124 . Wahdr'lf. loMfacd "SO (Cuss tumma) . vlSUOb^ &, Soath Bcvl. hd. 4GS17 OanUr; F.' ^ OVrin ' ^ '. (EZKOTIVB AICD 
NdMiiunaiis) IjlS Kocky Kvcr ltd., 
Hnwiua. Tec 77027 Lcanrd H Stagl—il "SI (Soun Acnvmis) 
Vi Dorcr Ave, LaGnogr hik, ID 
«B2S FnKs J Wika '2i (Pinuc KILATIOMS 
ilia Dmuinairr) BIOS Haoe St., Rtti­

' hm^ Fk. ISaS 
DBECimS 10 IfR Kokri A. Eifaai "37 (flacusMT. Amis­
sms) FO BOB S4S^ Ml. Uiho tSSIS 
Jota T MiiM II '52 (FACOLTV BILUMNS) 3917 BmAmr. Xamm CStr, Mo C411I Fmk L. UcCiw '52 (Acumc tawnms 
Bninifni ft Onxnrav) 900 BU*. 
FnMf in Bead, Fk. 330C2 
•ski t L. MeCJfcck "SS (CammDim> 
Esocom, 9nmatt Amuas) 15 Drarr 
LUK, Wot tbeOmt. CMS. 0(117 \tv^AVL.Tmt in <Ananc) S4 W 4ih 
St>i mnttfiftKtf Ki. 19MS 


MucToniD tm 
Duiei D. Omek '42. 1325 CTi—rrcc Titk 
— - ,Taa 3U05 
Of JMB C Lavoi '3|:_^I0 Chotaat Aw.UagBcwk.CUt 90107 

Gnat Vedk, N.Y. IlSs iMCfh T fytum <SS. CO W 4lli St.. St. 
IM . ICaa. 55102 Jaka >. tt^H '«LjnV KaUare. B> 
FEATURE 




i^e're isrorking on it 
by Jean Horiszny Asst. Dir. Information Services 
Solving the problems of the world is traditionally an "ivory tower" pursuit, scoffed at by the pragmatists and doers of the world. But as wars, overpopulation, pollution and deple­tion of resources threaten to destroy or radically alter life on earth, many are turning to the universities for leadership in meeting the ecological crisis. 
Scholars at ND have been working quietly for as long as 10 years to combat phases of air and water pollution; to improve family planning programs; and to provide basic knowledge necessary for new ap­proaches to the environment. ND's three-pronged program of research, education and social action encom­passes ecological abuses from the campus itself, to the South Bend community, to national and world concerns. 
Drs. Mark W. Tenney and Wayne 
F. Echelberger, associate professors of civil engineering, have demonstrated that a common air pollutant produced by burning coal can remove organic materials and nutrients from polluted lake water. Working with an isolated column of water at Stone Lake in Cassapolis, Mich., the two engineers showed that fly ash could reduce the concentration of contaminating nutrients in water. In the laboratory, at least, the ash was able to form a seal over the bottom muds preventing the pollutants from reinfecting the water. 
Although the preliminary results are encouraging, the two engineers are not offering fly ash as a panacea for all polluted bodies of water. In any ecological problem, they explain, a cure must not only correct the im­mediate ill, but prove safe for the entire environmental system. With Drs. Thomas C. Grifiing, assistant professor of biology, Francis Verhoff, assistant professor of chemical engi­neering and Philip C. Singer, assistant professor of civil engineering, the two researchers are now trying to predict the probable effects of fly ash on the general chemistry and ecology of Stone Lake. Before actually dumping large quantities of fly ash into the lake, Tenney, Echelberger and Singer will study the chemical environment; Grifiing will provide ecological information; and Verhoff will prepare a computer-programmed systems analysis of the lake, which will 
allow the group to predict theoretical 
results of fly ash on the total lake 
system. 
Thermal pollution, which threatens to render even large lakes like Lake Michigan recreationally dead, has received scientific attention only in recent years. Albin A. Szewczyk and Steve Piacsek, professors of aerospace and mechanical engineering, are particularly interested in studying the possible effects of locating power plants around the Great Lakes. Their research will form part of a coordin­ated study of thermal pollution by scientists at Argonne National and periiaps even produce some beneficial effects, such as opening the lakes' cold northern beaches to bathers. 
Underground water pollution presents a little-discussed problem of serious proportions. Dr. Erhard M. Winkler, associate professor of geol­ogy, believes. He points out that large quantities of precious fresh water are held in reservoirs underground, and can be the major source of clean water for many cities and towns. When poisonous wastes are pumped into the ground for disposal, the possibility exists that the poisons will reach the freshwater reserves, creating 
RNS Photo 

It is estimated that Americans pour some two billion tons of pollutants 
into the atmosphere annually. 
Laboratories. 
The two researchers are using the computer to predict the complicated behavior of thermal "plumes"—the widening cone of heated water that spews forth from power plants. They hope that their program will allow scientists to predict the behavior of • plumes under varying conditions of wind, plant size, currents, bottom structure, temperature differences and general lake circulation. Such knowl­edge can help power plants choose locations which minimize the im­desirable effects of thermal pollution. 
a pollution problem impossible to clear up. Although the poisons are sup­posedly deported in areas which are not connected to freshwater supplies, Winkler explains that the material can travel along faults and cracks in the rock structure to active or potential water reserves. No one knows the rock fault patterns in enough detail to assure safety, he adds, and earth­quakes may develop which can easily ^ter the existing patterns. In fact, he says, the very pressure of pumping poisons into the earth can open up chamiels which allow seepage. 
7%e team of Singer, Tenney and Echelberger conduct 
pollution research on the St. Joseph River. 
As a geologist, Winkler is also OMicemed about the effects of pollu­tion on the soil, rocks and building materials of the earth. Pollution can exhaust the purifying ability of clays, can corrode rocks and stone buildings, and can alter the soil and atmosphere on which all life depends. 
Veifaoff is the generalist of the envircHimental researchers, taking a broad, "sytems" approach to the variety of factors affecting the environ­ment His major work is with com­puters and mathematics, and his basic premise is that every facet of the environment affects every other facet While ecologists might identify an oxygen limit or heat limit in guessing at the reasons for a fish kill, a systems approach might show that an inter­acticMi of many factors was the cause. Rather than studying a single pollutant in air pcdlution, a systems expert would attempt to look at the whole soup of chemicals, taking into account how each pollutant interacts with others, and with natural components of the air. 
VerlK^ believes the catastrophic tone of much environment news to be scare tactics, and personally expects the adaptability of man to find answers for the coming problems. He regards the much-publicized population bomb as a scapegoat for other p<^tical, economic and social problems. Considering the present rate of scientific development, he expects new and as yet unconceived methods of population analysis and control to be available, when and if, sheer numbers of people become a problem. 
Dr. Donald Barrett, associate professor of sociology and a member of the former Papal Birth Control Cmnmission, is gravely concerned about the massive populations and awesome growth rates of devdoping countries. His research in Colombia, Peru and Brazil has convinced him that a lower population in these countries is the only road to a life with human dignity for millions d impov­erished Latins. He eiqiiains diat a population explosion caused by lowered death rates and stable biith rates places an intoIeraUe strain on the government's ability to si^pty die minimum necessities of food and housing, let alone its ability to ptaride education, health and wd£ue. How­ever, he adds that "strings'* attadwd to U.S. aid can only strain rdatioat with friendly govemmenti, and often leads to the su^icion diat die VS. u only afraid of being outnnmbeied by other races. 
Barrett, however, does not bdiew that the U.S. has a peculation ptoUem and has little patience widi Secretary of Health, Education and WdCue Robert Finch and others, wbo imptf that the country's majM' probtemi stem from population. BancttcaDs the major problems icdistributioa of people away from crowded mban centers, and a mcMe sensibie attitude towards reusing wastes. 
Giiffing shares Barrett's ooncon for the developing nations, but abo fears a serious pcqtulation praUem in the U.S.—not from shea numbeis, but from numbers of people widi prosperous and wasteful life ttyiu. He points out that each American produces more than 25 times mwe pollution and requires 25 times more food, resources and power than an Indian or Latin. Presendy, he pmnts out America can maintain her 
Professor WinUer makes a point. 

Professor Grilling and a new course. 
current aflBuence only by consuming onC'Jialf <rf the worid's food and producing neariy two-thirds oi the worid's pollution. Increased papula­tion of Americans, each demanding an affluent life style, may actually damage die earth ni(»e than increased pt^ulations in developing countries, hebdieves. 
Professor of sociology. Dr. William 

T. Liu, concurs with GrifiBng that the answer to the population problem is not techiMriogical, but personal and social. Liu, director of the Institute for the Study of Population and Social Change, is convinced that there is indeed a pressing threat of overpopu­lation. The question is, he says, what are we going to do about it? He is frankly pessimistic about the success of presendy conceived family planning programs, and is wcnking with his staff to sort out the many complica­tions and problems associated with effectivdy reducing birth rates. 
Birth contnri, Liu ex^ains, is in the middle of man's most contradictory dreams and values. Some will not accept "unnatural" methods for religious reasons, while embracing the artificial medicines «iiich keep them alive longer. Others dream of "grow­ing communities" and countries, while also clinging to the desire for wilder­ness and ^»ace. The idea of contra­ception may be com^tely foreign to people who could never afford the luxury of planning a day in advance and it often runs counter to national­istic aims and racial pride. 
Liu is hopeful that intricate under­standing of family, societal and personal relationdiips in developing countries will yield some clues on introducing family farming. His m^CHT fear is that bicriogists will place tfarir faith in a technological gimmick, radier than in the patient, careful work of social jrfanneis. 
Drs. John F. Santos and B. J. Farrow, chairman and assistant chairman of the department ol psychology, are also seeking new and better information on the psycholog­ical factors which determine why people accept or reject family planning services. Their extensive research plan titled "Psychological Studies Relating to Family Planning" proposes to investigate psychological, religious and cultural factors which influence invcdvement in family [rianning pro­grams in this country and Mexico. In addition, they propose to assess the psychcriogical impact of family planning on interrelationships and well-being within the family unit 
This spring, Grifling introduced a popular course on "Biology and the Population Problem," explaining the intricate relationships between living organisms and their environment His premise is that the resources of the worid are finite, unequally distributed and already heavily exploited. There­fore, he believes, continued ui^anned population growth will aggravate human misery and sufiering; lessen the value of human life; further disrupt critical ecosystem interactions; further deteriorate man's physical and psycho­logical environment and ultimately risk survival of the human species. Man must accept the responsibility of regulating his own birth rate, Griffing believes, to achieve a stable population density in harmony with the wise use of his environment and its resources. 
Tenney, Echelberger, Singer and Verlioff are teaching a course called "Man and His Environment" Like GrifSng's, the course is open to any ND or St Mary's student who wants to learn more about the en­vironment and about the difficult 
Mr. Riley wiU be the lookout. 
technical problems presented by pollution and population. 
The department of architecture created a new graduate program two years ago, built around the idea that design should consider human beings and their needs, as well as the environ­ment and its imperatives. Called "Environics," the new program stresses the interrelationship of human life and the environment and is dedicated to training new leaders in urban design, pollution control, and other areas. 
The psychology department is venturing into the opening field of "ecological psychology." Farrow and Santos are beginning preliminary wrak 
Theoreticians Stewezfk (left) and Vttkog 
on the eflfects of air pollution, mal­nutrition and cultural deprivation on the psychological functioning of both children and adults. They are particu­lariy concerned with the influence of pollution and malnutrition on the learning and adaptability of children, and the extent to which these factors may hasten the psychological symp­toms of aging. 
Presently, most social action programs center around the coming Environmental Day of Concera, scheduled for April 22. Two graduate students in civil engineering, Joe Pavoni and Dick Murley, recently organized the Michiana Forum on the Environment a community-wide group concerned about local pollution problems. The forum is the primary organizer of the coming day of concern, and plans to take the teach-in to the South Bend schools and community groups. Forum members are particularly concerned about air pollution from industry and power plants in South Bend and on the campus. 

«<We have net the eaeMy aad he Is HS." 
—Pogo 

The faaOtf at the biology dqnit­ment paiicd a leadution asking die ND campm to lead the way in cltaning vp its own environment Recendy. ND Uied Edward A. Rifcy as envifoomental healdi and safety manager, to ovcnee food preporatioa. test equipment enforce ndiirtion standanfa and lest water in the wdb and lakes. In addition, the University purchased a new bailer for the power plant which has an dectrostatic precq>itatM' to remove blade particles ftom coal smiAe. Presently, it dumps no sewage into St Mary's w St Joaq^ Lakes, but sends its wastes to the South Bend sewage treatment facilities. 
Griffing applauds these efforts, but notes that the chimney ai the power plant still ^lews fordi sulfates and other noxious chemicals ^liiich decay stone, rot paint kill iriants and may be a health hazard. He also points out that heat pollutionfirom the power plant has endangered aquatic life in St Jose^ Lake and has stim­ulated algae growth idiidi is killed by api^ications of copper sulfate crystals. The crystals can be considered pcdhi­tants in themadves, he adds. Griffing is optimistic about die success of a I^anned cooling tower and about coming strict standards for radiatJcm safety, and he hopes that ti^t funds at the University will not slow progress toward pollution control at ND. 
UNIVERSITY 

Academic life at ND continues to take on new aspects. 


A neiv tivist 
Major modifications in ND's varied academic curricula will take effect next year as a direct result of the Curriculum Revision Committee report recently submitted to and ap­proved by the University's Academic Council. 
After two years of study, the com­mittee, which included students as voting members, recommended increased flexibility and more student control in curriculum, a personalized approach to education, and the dovetailing of living and learning experiences. 
One of the main thrusts of the committee's 11 recommendations involves increased cooperation with St. Mary's College on many fronts. The committee received three separate proposals for an experi­mental college during its delibera­tions, and subsequently recommended the appointment of a coordinator and an advisory board to plan "a residential, co-educational, cross-college program in the sophomore year to experiment broadly in innovative academic methodology and to test new educational departures." The earliest possible date mentioned for implementation 
was the fall of 1971. 
In other instances of increased cooperation with SMC, the commit­tee adopted a common schedule and grading system as well as a new, joint academic calendar which in­cludes an earlier beginning and conclusion to the academic year and eliminates the "lame duck" session between the end of Christmas vacation and the end of the first semester. 
The committee recommended placing increased freedom and re­sponsibility on the student to plan his own education, while at the same time encouraging more active foculty counseling, especially in the transi­tional sophomore year when students leave a Freshman Year Pn^gram and have yet to establish a firm footing in a major field of study. 
In the area of required courses, the University-wide 12 hours in the­ology and philosophy were reduced to six hours each and a three-hour 
fine artsrequirement was added in the 
College of Arts and Letters. The 
reduction of the theology and 
philosophy requirements is an attempt 
to achieve higher levels of quality 
by reducing the departmental 
commitments in total number of 
hours offered. The fine arts 
requirement grew out of student 
complaints about insensitivity to 
aesthetics on campus. 
Other ND colleges also revamped their curricula with an eye toward innovative and student-centered edu­cation. One recommendation of the committee specifically endorsed "an increasing diversity of academic programs." 
The curriculum revision includes stress on more community involve­ment and work-study programs. The report favored increased community involvement both on the University level and on the individual student level. The possibility of alternating periods of study with periods of work was broached, with detailed programs left up to the individual colleges. 
Attention was given to ND's use of educational media. The com­mingling of contemporary educational media with individualized education was given a high priority, with emphasis placed on the use of media to improve the quality of teaching, not to increase the quantity of learners. 
The report also gave a solid vote of confidence and a mandate for expansion to include students from all colleges to ND's foreign study programs, which now include Innsbruck, Austria; Angers, France; Tokyo, Japan, and Cali, Columbia. 
The report also stresses the need of imaginative approaches to the residence hall as a learning environ­ment, including the scheduling of seminar discussions in dormitories. It further recommends active participation by students in "appro­priate academic committees and councils," excluding a few such as those involving admissions, faculty appointments and promotions, and student fellowships and schol­arships. The report makes it possible for jimiors and seniors to select one non-major course each semester on a pass-fail basis. 

"Any curriculum," the report commented, "is a changing and partial arrangement. Probably the most successful curriculum is the one which has motivated its students to a high proportion of independent study." 

Arty eoneern 
The old familiar fieldhouse has a new 
name, the University Arts Center. A newly formed faculty-student University Arts Council decided that 
if there was to be real participation 
in the arts, a place was needed for the students to experiment, to display, to gather and hear the criticism of their peers. When the news spread on campus that the fieldhouse was doomed for a Thanksgiving 1969 destruction, the Council began to act. A rally was held in November in an attempt to save the building and ultimately Father Hesburgh gave a six-month reprieve. 
The finance committee of the Council estimated that 1.6 million dollars would be necessary to make the building workable and proposals have been sent to several foundations throughout the country requesting financial assistance. 
Meanwhile, the Council's program committee drew up the philosophy of the project "An appeal to the whole man, that he learn to relate to himself and to society through the medium of the arts." To encourage a bringing together of all the arts the Council sponsored a week-long "Festival Mixed Bag." From March 1-5, the festival presented student poets, classical and pop musicians, interpretive dancers, film makers and playwrights, all performing against the back­ground of the largest student art exhibit in the history of the Univer­sity. Three hundred pieces were viewed by more than 1,600 visitors, and if student participation was the goal, the festival certainly succeeded with more than 2,000 from ND and St. Mary's sharing in the event. 
The festival took place entirely in the fieldhouse and helped to make 

Biafran relief 
Students for Biafran Relief, an inter­national movement conceived and headquartered at ND, has spread to colleges and universities across the country and is currently channeling funds to the Nigerian Red Cross in an effort to stem the tide of death and starvation in the former African 
Tom Hamilton (left) plots a course. 
secessionist state of Biafra. 
Thomas S. Hamilton, a freshman and one of four brothers to attend the University in recent years—the other three graduated in 1962—returned from Christmas vacation intent on making a personal donation to the Biafran cause. After he decided to expand the idea in an attempt to involve more of the ND campus, the effort has mushroomed into a nation­wide, student-oriented movement. 
In the course of organizing and soliciting some $5,000 from the ND-SMC community, the group has contacted some 1,300 educational institutions in all 50 states and two 
U.S. territories in its attempt to raise $1 million for relief of the Biafran people. According to Hamilton, the idea seems to have taken hold on a great many campuses and he is optimistic about the eventual outcome of the drive. It may be impossible to compute a final tabulation of the results, however, since many of the splinter groups are operating independently. 
In addition to soliciting support from students across the country, Hamilton has spent some time in New York and Washington seeking the endorsements of government 
Thefieldhouse takes on a new look. 
the plans for its reconstruction more plausible. The renovated building would house the entire art department, faculty-student confer­ence rooms, a speech and drama unit, rooms for film making, music centers, and lounges where students could gather for critique sessions. 
Early summer will find the Vice-Presidents' Council deciding the fate of the fieldhouse. The University Arts Council invites Alumni to help insure the salvation of that historic campus landmark. 
leaders and media men. To date, such notable politicians as Senators George Murphy and Alan Cranston of California and Vance Hartke and Birch Bayh of Indiana have supported the drive. Other groups to approve the movement include the United States National Student Assn., the Young World Development Program, the 4-H Clubs of America, United Press International, the Associated Press and the Westinghouse Broadcasting Co. 
Many ND faculty, administrators and students have also been active in the movement, which accepts con­tributions through P.O. Box 516, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Asked why he initiated such a movement, the California resident answered, "We organized the group because, aside from the humanitarian aspect, which is of course primary, we wished to make it appear as a constructive form of student activism." Hamilton pointed out that the money obtained will be used for food, medical supplies and transportation costs. He also commented that the group is operating strictly for humanitarian reasons and does not or never has supported the resurgence of the conflict The 1970 Laetare Medal, ND's hi^iest honor, has been awarded to Dr. William B. Walsh, a Washington, D.C., physician who founded "Project HOPE" and launched a hospital ship on mercy missions around the worid. 
In announcing Dr. Walsh's designa­tion on the eve of Laetare Sunday, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, University president, commented, "In the very decade in which our technology took us 240,000 miles to the moon. Dr. Walsh's S.S. Hope, the world's first peacetime hospital ship, traveled an equal distance healing the sick of a vast and varied human family. He has shown us that nothing makes the traditional Christian virtues so contemporary as simply putting them into practice. ND is proud to add his name to its list of Laetare Medal recipients." 
Dr. Walsh is the sixth holder of a medical degree to receive the award, which is bestowed annually on an outstanding Catholic layman who has distinguished himself in his chosen field of endeavor and who has led an exemplary private life. Supreme Court Justice William J. Brennan Jr. received the 1969 medal and other recent recipients include R. Sargent Shriver, diplomat; J. Peter Grace, industrialist; Phyllis McGinley, poet; George Meany, labor leader; and former President John F. Kennedy. 
A Brooklyn, N.Y., native. Dr. Walsh received his B.S. in biology from St John's U. in 1940 and his 

M.D. from Georgetown U. three years later. After his internship and 
Dr. William B. Walsh at home aboard the good ship HOPE. 


Dr. Walsh honored 
residency, he served as medical oflScer aboard a destroyer in W.W. ITs Pacific Theater. The poor health conditions he witnessed in the South Pacific inspired an idea of returning to the area with a floating medical center. After 12 years in private practice, he founded the People-to-People Health Foundation, Inc., and "Project HOPE" 
(Health Opportunity for People Everywhere). 
The physician now divides lus time between administrative duties in his Washingtoin headquarters and sojourns aboard the lS,000-toa hospital ship that has visited numerous foreign lands. Much of his time is devoted to raising the $5 million a year it takes to keep his medical center afloat. He is currently gathering support for a second ship. 
Dr. Walsh sees a direct tie between the SS. Hope and world peace. "There is nothing more miserable or hopeless than a man who is too sick or despondent to work. It is people in such a state of despair who are most susceptible of being persuaded to violence." Dr. Walsh is married to a nurse and is the father of three sons, all of whom have worked aboard the hospital ship. 


Chaneellor^president idea pushed 
About 1,000 ND and SMC students and teachers have signed a petition supporting the creation of a chancel­lor-president structure in the Univer­sity administration. In a campaign that began in February, a group of about 60 students have proposed that Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, who has served as president for 18 years, be made chancellor, and Dr. WiUis Nutting, who has taught at ND for 35 years, be made president 
The division of labor would rele­gate responsibility for representing the University in national and inter­national affairs to the chancellor, while the president would be respon­sible for the internal affairs of the University. 
Steve Raymond, a senior from South Bend who helped initiate the campaign, said, "In four years at ND, I have come to two realizations. First, a community of 'students,' i.e., faculty and students, is necessary for real learning. Second, our administra­tive structure is the major barrier to such a community. Thus, my objec­tive in this campaign is to restructure the administrative structure to allow the president to be a resident teacher. To emphasize this objective we have advocated our greatest teacher. Dr. Nutting, as the man to fill the presi­dency in our new structure." 

The group has sent explanatory letters to Fr. Hesburgh and the 42 members of the board of trustees. Fr. Hesbur^ responded with the expla­nation that "any change of governance here at the University would come from the board of trustees, not from me." He said he thought it inappro­priate to comment on the campaign, but said, "As far as I am concerned, your group or anyone else is perfect­ly entitled to make whatever efforts you wish in these matters." None of the trustees has answered the letter. 
The group has stressed the need for a president to be "a permanent resident, always in direct (teaching) contact with the students." They are seeking comments and criticisms of the chancellor-president proposal and ask that they be sent to The Nutting for President Headquarters. Box 813, St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6. 

1969 ANNUAL ALUMNI FUND 
Support hy Alumni continues 
More alumni than ever before 
contributed one of the leading 
amounts to the 27th Annual Alumni 
Fund of the University of Notre 
Dame during 1969. 
Almost half of the University's graduates (49.2 per cent) partici­pated in the program and they con­tributed $1,810,012 in cash gifts. Honorary alumni (17) added $953,340 for a total of $2,763,352. Only twice before, when individual gifts swelled the total contributed, was a higher figure recorded. 
The Alumni Fund is the largest source of unrestricted gifts needed for current operating expenses of the University. Other sources include friends, corporations, foundations and bequests. 
The total of 14,667 contributors during 1969 was an increase of 485 over 1968's 14,182 when 49 per cent of those contacted responded. Gifts recorded in 1968 totaled $1,758,558 for alumni and $62,593 for honorary alumni. 
Classes of 1928 and 1954, each with individual gifts totaling $100,000 or higher, placed first and second in the accounting of more than 60 classes participating in the pro­gram. Bill Dwyer, Chicago, succeeded Pat Canny, Beachwood, Ohio, as class agent for 1928 and maintained the high degree of participation recorded in previous years. 
The Class of 1915, with Albert A. Kuhle as class agent, led all classes in participation with 59.4 per cent of its members responding to the annual appeal. 
Previous highs in the history of the Annual Alumni Fund were recorded in 1964 when single gifts totaling approximately $800,000 produced a total of $2.1 million, and in 1966 when individual gifts totaling more than $1 million were credited for a total of $2.2 million. 
The Annual Alumni Fund will play an increasingly important role in the life of ND with SUMMA, "Notre Dame's Greatest Challenge" nearing 
CUus Agtnt 

1910 & before—Stephen H. Herr 1911—Oilonel R. Otto Ftobst 1912—Richard J. Monroe 1913—Fred "Cy" Williams 1914—William J. Redden 1915—Albert A. Kuhle (•) 1916—C. Patrick Maloney 1917—John E. Cassidy, Sr. 1918—John A. Lenimer 1919—Louis J. Finske 1920—John T. Balfe 1921—Raymond J. Schubmehl 1922—Frank B. Bloemer, Jr. 1923—Joseph F. Donaldson 1924—W. Harold Welch 1925—Henry C. Wurzer 1926—Malcolm F. Knaus 1927—WilUam J. Coibett, Jr. 1928—Waiiam K. Dwyer (•) 1929—Karl E. Martersteck 1930—John J. Elder 1931—John F. Saunders 1932—Francis J. O'Malley 1933—Lucien S. Kempf 1934—Patrick J. CarroU 1935—Paul A. Fergus 1936—Francis L. "Mike" Layden 1937—Robert M. Siegfried 1938—^Leonard H. Skoglund, Jr. 1939—James N. Motschall 1940—Walter L. Fleming, Jr. 1941—William E. Cotter, Jr: 1942—Stephen G. Graliker 1943—Oliver H. Hunter, HI 1944—John W. Anhut 1945—Joseph M. Haggar, Jr. 1946—^Hany B. Surkamp 1947—Joseph M. Byrne, III 1948—James L. Fentd 1949—Peter J. Keman, Jr. 1950—Gus CifeUi 1951—^Martin R. O'Connor 1952—William V. Cuddy 1953—^Joseph L. Pagliari 1954—Thomas J. Nessinger 1955—George H. Shelton 1956—John J. Fannon 1957—James A. Morse 1958—^Alfred J. Weinsheimer, Jr. 1959—Frank R. Reynolds, Jr. 1960—D. Jerry McGlynn 1961—Patrick J. Hart, Jr. 1962—John C. Dearie 1963—Michael H. McCarthy 1964—David W. Ellis 1965—John J. Gearen (•) 1966—Thomas J. Sullivan 1967—Patrick J. Nash 1968—James L. Smithberger 1969—Thomas M. Breen 
Gift in Kind Honorary Alumni Notre Dame Clubs 
Total 

Same as 1968 
+ Increase over 1968 
Amnml Cm-
IrikMtf 
1 2S,256.64— 490.64+ 345.00— 3,525.00+ 6,797.00+ 
4',D4O-IO~|~ 

43,470.75+ 20,379.68— 1,330.00— 9,133.00+ 6,734.36— 4,613.00— 36,439.63+ 7,164.41 + 26,231.31+ 9,776.00+ 35,881.96+ 14,750.75— 
158,018.37+ 31,645.48+ 24,302.40+ 65,594.88— 30,615.00+ 26,070.29— 60,899.91— 28,245.10— 16,577.21 + 38.477.40— 52,648.70+ 26,162.71— 48,437.78— 37,592.14+ 25,348.27— 23,941.17— 61,510.94+ 13,225.00+ 
7,318.50+ 22,039.43— 36,108.38— 57,693.23— 38,831.13— 39,983.98+ 
46.702.61 + 38,986.75— 130,884.90+ 28,073.33— 42,872.08+ 23,816.54+ 28,713.81+ 30,387.52+ 20,404.29+ 16,973.24— 16,084.40+ 15,356.38+ 16,202.59+ 16,161.07+ 10,231.33+ 18,966.25+ 
9,459.09— 4,841.25 
20,164.05+ 953.340.21+ 43,477.68+ 12,763,352.06+ 
Nmmitr MCtm-
InnMWs 
25— 
6— 
5— 
13+ 
12— 
19+ 
17 
17— 
19— 
18+ 
20+ 
26+ 
48— 
56— 
62— 
75— 
82+ 
112— 
171— 
154— 
170+ 
152— 
166+ 
191+ 
187— 
174+ 
138+ 
128— 
177+ 
203+ 
223— 
206— 
191— 
217— 
233— 
146+ 
107+ 
234— 
412+ 
538— 
473— 
375+ 
455+ 
440— 
441+ 
400— 
458— 
489+ 
504— 
529+ 
519+ 
486— 
518+ 
485+ 
563+ 
577+ 
493+ 
453+ 
486+ 
334 
12— 
17+ 
27 14,684+ 
Waatn ^.«# 
82 23 23 31 39 32 35 51 47 35 53 55 112 130 138 191 167 261 320 329 346 366 373 409 426 417 337 345 401 416 489 452 444 458 473 278 241 519 803 1046 877 682 821 752 747 761 820 892 949 924 924 889 968 
1019 1072 1063 1052 1081 1136 1256 
29,880 
Oat 
Cm: 
fffWVCM 
303 26.1 20.0 41J 30.8 59.4 
48.6 
33J 40.4 51.4 37.7 47.3 42.9 43.1 44.9 39.3 49.1 42.9 53.4 46.8 49.1 41.5 44.5 46.7 43.9 41.7 40.9 37.1 44.1 4&8 
45.6 45.6 
43.0 47.4 49.3 52.5 44.4 45.1 51.3 51.4 53.9 55.0 55.4 58.5 59.0 
52.6 
55.8 54.8 53.1 57.2 
56.2 
54.7 53.5 47.6 52.5 54.3 46.9 41.9 42.8 
26.6 

*
 1965 Molt Contributon 

*
 1928 LaigeM Amount 


its $52 million goal. — Decrease from 1968 * 1915 Largest % of Class Contributors 
interested in the teaching experience than in research. The program has grown in enrollment to a total of some 110 majors and in recent years has been graduating about 30 per class. 
Crowe points out that approxi­mately one-third of all GP graduates end up in the practice of law, but is quick to add that they have distinguished themselves in many specialties. At least 11 ND graduates of the program have served or are serving on the University faculty. 
The GP is an unusual program 

Professor Crowe (second from left) participates in GP seminar. 
patterned somewhat after the great books curriculum of St. John's College in Annapolis, Md., and Santa Fe, N.M. St. Mary's of 



GP prospers 
California also has a similar pro­

gram. In an alumni survey Once upon a time a few years back philosophies and authors of conducted in the early 1960's, results an ad appeared in the Scholastic. human history. indicated that GP graduates were It read in part, "Do you have what "The GP was initiated," according more pleased with their major at ND it takes to be a philosopher king? to Michael J. Crowe '58, associate than the graduates of any other If you do, don't settle for less" professor in and director of the department. . . . than the General Program of department, "to create an academic Now concluding its second decade, Liberal Studies. In the past two program with the objective of inte­the General Program of Liberal decades some 400 ND men have grating various branches of learning Studies will celebrate a 20th anni­refused to settle for less and by with significant student involvement. versary reunion this June concurrent simple virtue of that fact are alumni It provides students with a unique with the regular ND Alumni of the General Program. opportunity to learn many things." Reunion. Friday, June 11, has been 
The GP, which this year is cele­In addition the GP is the first ND set aside for all GP graduates brating its 20th anniversary as academic program treating the to return. Great Books seminars part of the ND curriculum, is a eastern writings and it is the first will be featured throughout the day course of study revolving around the department to introduce the study and the festivities will be topped off great books of history. It began, of the history of science. with a dinner honoring Professor through the impetus of former Eleven faculty members serve the Willis Nutting who retires at the con­president Rev. John Cavanaugh, department and, according to Crowe, clusion of the academic year. as a four-year program but in 1955 who is the youngest department Former faculty and students are was modified to a three-year course. chairman on campus, they represent welcome, according to Mr. Crowe, Students participate in seminars various points of view and phi­and anyone interested should and tutorials treating the great losophies and tend to be much more contact his office. 

ROT€ on eantpus — two view^s 
"ROTC Under Fire" blaze the headlines across the The original purpose of connecting ROTC with the 
country. At Columbia and Harvard, the ROTC units are Vietnam war was to force a reduction of officers available m-being discontinued. Puerto Rico U. conducted bloody riots for service. To my mind, however, connecting ROTC over the question of ROTC on campus. ND discussed the with the war in Vietnam has the effect of blaming our issue last May, but did so while the students were occupied collective mistakes on the military. Nothing could be with spring exams. Since then, the campus ROTC has more dangerous. This war has divided the country enough been labeled a "killing school" by one ND professor. This already without looking for a scapegoat in the military. kind of attitude has led one officer from another college It is also a serious mistake for the reason stated in a 
to compare ROTC to an embassy on foreign soil. special report to the president on ROTC "If ROTC This attack originated, partly, from the antiwar were to be removed from the nation's campuses, there sentiments in colleges across the country. Indeed, leaders would be grave danger of isolating the services from the of the Student Mobilization to End the War in Vietnam intellectual centers of the public which they serve and met recently to decide how "to run the ROTC oflf every 
defend." campus from the Atlantic to the Pacific." On another The question of the academic credibility of ROTC level, the attack directed against ROTC is an academic is justified in light of interviews of ROTC students argument, one which I believe is justified. Finally, at ND themselves at the U. of Illinois and other schools. It is the question has arisen as one of the compatibility of their belief, as well as mine, that ROTC, as it exists now, ROTC with Christian ideals. These matters deserve is academically inferior to other courses. The solution, serious consideration. it appears, would be legislation providing greater autonomy 
to participating institutions, pertiaps even to the point of making ROTC a program and not a department. This is not to say that ROTC should be eliminated from the university. But the decision to retain ROTC and the question of its relationship to the university should be decided by the entire community. 
At ND, the ROTC has been attacked as incompatible with Christian ideals. The underlying assumption is that those students in ROTC are either un-Christian, anti-Christian or to be pitied. To me, thisrepresents an attitude which itself is incompatible with the Christian message. We should always guard against making ourselves the embodiment of absolute good. As long as the university is involved in the real world, it will find that evil cannot 
be eradicated from the human condition. The Christian community has alwaysrecognized this. The Christian university is a place where one should leam to face the reality of the worid in the ligbt of Christian ideals. Perhaps then some of the worid's cruelties will be softened. So ND does, I think, contribute somthing to ROTC. But it is not a one-sided affair. ROTC can and does contribute something to our campus: a sense of fraternity, honor, integrity, respect, responsibility, service—all of which we have trouble cranmunicating to each other in our world today. 
Edward M. Smith 70 
The most popular rationale for keeping ROTC on campus—it serves the needs of both students and society— is of course not by itself convincing. The university is not primarily a student ombudsman service, nor is it a farm team for society. Among the problems facing universities today is the cliched but real identity crisis. The men who direct the university have a hard time knowing what it can do because they are not sure what it ought to do. The university cannot determine what needs it should fill until it knows what it is itself. 
Much money and energy is invested these days in seeking relevance. Perhaps, partly, because many governments have become so irrelevant to society, institutions such as the Church and the university feel as if they must pick up the slack and be relevant. What has resulted, of course, is increased role confusion among all three institutions. The extent of that confusion among universities can be seen best in the light of the campus before the storm, the traditional view of the university. 
According to that tradition, a university is concerned first and finally with the learning that goes on among teachers and students. It is not the same kind of teaching that is pursued at a technical school. A university professor is distinguished by the respect he holds for the integrity of the words he speaks and the students he addresses. The teacher strives to inspire his students, moving them to realize their own capacity for learning what is true. He seeks critical understanding from his students, and discourages passive acceptance of what anyone says. The teacher assists the student, most of all, in the latter's becoming what he is to be. 
Pragmatists will argue, and rightly so, that a man must do as well as be, that he must have training as well as learning. The question for the university is one of priorities. Is its focus to be teaching or training, and can it afford to dabble in both? First of all, the contradiction between the two must be acknowledged and dealt with. A teacher asks a man to think for himself; a trainer does a man's thinking for him. A teacher asks a man to struggle with the decision and if 
and/or under what circumstances he is willing to take 
another man's life. A trainer does all he can to relieve 
the student of the agony of that decision. A trainer presumes a resolution of the "if and when" problem and 
simply directs the student in how to do it. 
If the university is to be a place of questioning learning, it cannot be a place of unreflective training. It is in the nature of a university to ask the most fundamental questions about whatever it studies. ROTC does not ask questions about killing in national defense; it simply shows students how to do it. 
In April of 1969, the New York Times said this of Harvard's decision to eliminate ROTC's academic standing: "That stepreflecteda recognition that military training has no appropriate place in a liberal arts curriculum and that instructors whose professional accreditation and rank derive from a nonacademic outside authority fit poorly in a self-governing faculty." All of which, it seems, is both true enough and academic enough for Harvard and the Times. At ND, the academic credit issue is finally itself academic. The question more accurately is this: does the training-obedience process of ROTC have any place in the teaching-learning atmosphere of ND? 
A ROTC officer once explained to a ND student that "The only good bayonet has guts on both ends." An unfair example? Probably not. Military training is founded on the premise that it can make a man kill or die for his country. However noble many may consider that objective, the training that leads to it is grossly out of place in a university dedicated to the integrity and dignity of its students. To mix military training withreal teaching is to deny that integrity and dignity. ROTC's place on the ND campus isfinally destructive of the traditional beauty of learning at a university. 
William J. Mitchell 71 
SPORTS 
The "bridesmaid" role befell ND 
once again this year, this time on the 
basketball court. The Fighting Irish 
made it to the foot of the altar — 
the Mideast regional — but stumbled 
on the second step and thereby for­
feited an opportunity to tie the knot 
with the national championship. 
It was a season of surprises and 
records, most of which turned out to 
be quite pleasant. Coach Johnny 
Dee's cagers capped the University's 
6Sth basketball campaign by earning 
their third straight postseason invi­
tation and completing an awesome 
schedule with a sparkling 21-8 record. 
Niches in the wire polls' top 10 also 
came as rewards for an outstanding 
year. UPI had the Irish eighth in its 
final ballot while AP ranked them 
ninth. 
Ail of this transpired in a year that 
was questionable at the outset be­
cause of graduation losses and because 
Dee could point to only one returning 
regidar in forward Collis Jones. 
Austin Carr had missed much of his 
sophomore season with a broken foot 
and various other injuries had ham­
pered Jackie Meehan, Mike O'Con­
nell and Tom Sinnott. 
The junior-dominated team re­sponded in fine fashion to Dee's concepts of the double-post offense and the matching zone defense to produce the Irish mentor's third suc­cessive 20-win season. The loss of key personnel at various times during the year and a general lack of con­sistency at center hurt the Irish against much of the top opposition they faced and was undoubtedly a stumbling block at tourney time. 
The Irish opened the campaign impressively by reeling off five straight wins before taking a mur­derous road trip in which they lost to the nation's three top teams — Kentucky, South Carolina and UCLA — in one week. Losses to old rival Michigan State and Dayton, coupled with an earlier defeat by Kansas, were the only other mars on the ND record prior to NCAA tourney time. In Dayton, they rolled over Mid-America Conference champ, Ohio U., 112-82, before advancing to Columbus and successive losses to Kentucky and Iowa. 
The most pleasing aspect of the season from many points of view was the development of Captain Austin Carr. The junior from Washington, D.C., did just about everything but 

Irish Captain Austin Carr clicks for two at home against West Virginia. 


Nen^ Carr?—no thanks! 
sell tickets for home games and was recognized at the conclusion of the year as a genuine AU-American, al­though he was conspicuously absent from first-team berths on many of the honor teams named. 
A close look at the stats reveals that Carr is truly a complete basket­ball player. He led the team in scor­ing in every game but one this season and has rewritten the ND record book and added a few pages to the NCAA edition as well. 
Some of Carr's particulars in­clude: a 38.1 scoring average for 29 games; a 55.6 shooting percentage; an 82.6 foul shot percentage; an average of 8.3 rebounds per game; an all-time NCAA tourney record of 61 points against Ohio U.; and MVP designation in the NCAA Mideast regional and in the Sugar Bowl Tour­nament against some of the top talent of the nation. There is much more that can be said of his indi­vidual feats but perhaps the most important contribution the quiet black man makes is his leadership. 
While much of the attention fo­cused on Carr, there were others without whom the Fighting Irish would have been hard pressed to suc­ceed as well as they did. Junior for­ward Collis Jones was a strong, steady performer all year, averaging 
18.6 and rebounding at a 12.4 clip. Floormen Jackie Meehan, Mike O'Connell and Tom Sinnott provided much of the zip for the ND attack when it was desperately needed. Sophomore Doug Gemmell provided hope for the future, and seniors Jay Ziznewski and John Gallagher picked up the slack when they were called upon late in the season. 
It was an enjoyable year for ND basketball fans and prospects for next year look equally bright. But after that, there might be trouble — if; new Carrs aren't the easiest things to come by. 
mi 




Giiod year for ieemen 
The Irish hockey team prepared the way for its entrance next year into the Western Collegiate Hockey Assn. by fashioning an admirable 21-8-1 record in its second season of varsity competition. 
Coach Lefty Smith's charges took on opponents from the powerful WCHA, as well as independents from throughout the East and Midwest in completing a 30-game slate. At one time during the season, the Irish were ranked ninth in the country by the WCHA coaches' poll, and the team finished in the 10th spot. 
Paced by Canadian freshmen John Noble (S9 pts.) and Paul Regan (47 pts.) and by old reliable junior Phil Wittliff (48 pts.) from Port Huron, Mich., ND enjoyed victories over the likes of Ohio U., Hamilton, Penn, Ohio State, Air Force, Colo­rado College, Bowling Green and St. Mary's of Minnesota. Boston Col­lege and Wisconsin were two op­ponents with a little more ice savvy than the Irish. 
Wittliff led the team in goals with 29 and Noble was tops in assists with 35. Dick Tomasoni, a sopho­more from South Chisholm, Minn., had a good year in the nets, garnering 587 saves, an .892 goals against average, and a 3.5 goals against average. Other Irish skaters of note include Kevin Hoene (39 pts.). Bill Green (35 pts.), Jim Cordes and Gary Little (27 pts.), John Roselli (26 pts.) and Joe Bonk (23 pts.) 
ND and the ACC hosted the 1970 NCAA Fencing Toumameta. Some 46 
teams from around the country participated. 
At home, the Blue and Gold played before an average crowd of some 2,500 for each contest and came up with a 12-1-1 mark against a 9-7 tally on the road. The Irish outscored their opponents 186-108 and were strongest offensively in the third period, edging the opposition 73-40. 
Next season ND will join the WCHA, which includes Minnesota, Michigan Tech, Michigan, Michigan State, North Dakota, Denver, Minne­sota at Duluth, Colorado College and Wisconsin. 

WRAP-VP 
BASKETBALL: W<m 21, Lost 8 HOCKEY: Woa 21, Lost 8, 
Tiedl SWIMMING: W M 7, Lost 7 WRESTLING: Woa 6, Lost 6 FENCING: Woa 20, Lost 2 INDOOR TRACK: WOB 2, 
Lostl 

ND hockey men had a good year on offense, too. 



1970 is here 
by Donald E. BouSard Jr, Director of Ticket Sales 
It doesn't seem possible that 1970 football is upon us already. Some of us are still cleaning the cotton from our ears—not from the Cotton Bowl, as you might expect; rather from the loud Convocation Center concert appearances over the past year of The Fifth Dimension, Grand Funk Railroad, Johnny Cash, Blood, Sweat and Tears, etc., etc. We're not sure whether the ever-present smile on Bob Cahill's face stems from no longer being in this ticket rat-race, or from not having to meet the deadline for this article for the first time in many, many years. 
At its January meeting the board of directors of your Alumni Association requested that the Football Ticket Committee implement further changes (we have not sold any new season tickets since 1966, the parent and visiting team allotments were reduced in 1968) that would make additional seats available to the individual alumnus, particularly for high-interest games. To accomplish this it is necessary that we eliminate the parents of ND students from our distribution priority. (Parents will receive a ticket application for one home game for which we expect to have a public sale.) The 3,000 tickets formerly allotted to parents and the attrition of 500 season tickets since 1966 will increase the Alumni allotment to 16,000 tickets per home game. This quantity will hopefully eliminate the necessity of a lottery for home games with Purdue, Michigan State, etc. 

HOME GAMES: We are certain there will be no public sale of tickets for Purdue, Sept. 26, or for Army, Oct. 10. Also, there is a possibility this will hold true for Louisiana State, Nov. 21. However, if alumni clubs are interested in a bloc of tickets for the latter game, or for Pittsburgh, Nov. 7, or Georgia Tech, Nov. 14, we will make tentative reservations if you contact the ticket manager before June 30. No firm commitment can be made on any game for an alumni club bloc until the advance sale closes July 15. Because bloc orders are filled after all individual orders have been assigned, they are in­
variably end zone seats. 
AWAY GAMES: The site of our Oct. 17 clash with the U. of Missouri has been switched from Busch Stadium in St. Louis to the Missouri campus at Columbia. This change was necessitated by the possibility that the St. Louis Cardinals may be playing the seventh game of the World Series in Busch that same afternoon. While this may seem remote to some of you non-Cardinal fans, remember that last fall's ND-Army game was not scheduled in Shea Stadium because of the "possibility that the Mets might be in the series." Need I say more!! 
Our policy of allotting only 5,000 tickets to the visiting team when it plays in ND stadium will boomerang twice this year—^Michigan State at East Lansing and Missouri at Columbia. Hence ND will receive only 5,000 tickets for each of these games and will have to limit geographically the distribution of applications in each case. Contrib­utors in Michigan, Ohio, Indiana and Illinois will receive applications for Michigan State. Missouri applications will be limited to con­tributors in Missouri, Kentucky, Iowa, Nebraska, Kansas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Tennessee, Indiana and Illinois. However, please understand that receipt of an application is not a guarantee that you will receive tickets. It is certain that we will have to conduct a lottery of applications on the opening day of the advance sale (June 20). 
Ticket supplies for our games with Northwestern at Evanston, Navy at Philadelphia, and Southern Cali­fornia at Los Angeles should be sufficient to accommodate most individual applicants and perhaps some alumni clubs in those areas. 

FOOTBAU SCHEDULE Sept. 19 Northwestern at Evanston Sept. 26 PURDUE Oct. 3 Mich. State at E. Lansing Oct. 10 ARMY Oct. 17 Missouri at Columbia Oct. 31 Navy at Philadelphia Nov. 7 PITTSBURGH Nov. 14 GEORGIA TECH Nov. 21 LOUISIANA STATE Nov. 28 Southern California at Los Angeles 
Don Bouffard, the ticket man. 
BOWL GAME?? That question will not be answered until mid-November. However, based upon the experience of this year's Cotton Bowl we have established the follow­ing procedures: all contributing alumni who were eligible for applications for the regular season will receive a Bowl application for a maximum of two tickets. The applications of contributors in a geo­graphic area surrounding the game site, and dictated by the quantity of tickets available, will be specially marked and filled first. If the ticket supply is not then exhausted, those from outside the stated area will be accommodated. This seems to be the fairest method and the one most often suggested by those of you who make your views known to us. 
The mechanics of the advance sale 
are the same as the last several 
years. They are listed for you here 
and we remind you that only by your 
adherence to them can we serve 
you efficiently and effectively. 
Advance Sale Procedure. 1. Contrib­utors to the 27th Annual Alumni Fund in 1969, religious and honorary degree holders plus the June Class of 1970 are eligible for Advance Sale order forms for the 1970 football season. A contribution recorded after Jan. 1, 1970, affords ticket priority for 1971 season but NOT for 1970. 
2. Alumni Advance Sale opens June 
20. Advance Sale forms are limited to TWO tickets per game, are not transferable and will be honored until July 15, or until the ticket supply is exhausted, whichever occurs first. Any order arriving after that date, regardless of category, will receive General Use treatment. Moreover, an order filed before July IS is not guaranteed a preferred location (see Point 5 below). 

3.
 In order to be seated with a fellow alumnus you must send your ap­plications together in the same envelope. Because of our large volume of mail we cannot seat you together unless you follow this procedure. 

4.
 The Alumni Advance Sale order form is designated as such in bold type on its face for ready identifica­tion. Eligible alumni should receive these before June 20. If you 


have not—and you're certain of your eligibility—notify the ticket manager at once. Our envelopes are ad­dressed by the Alumni Association but filled and mailed by the ticket office. Omissions are usually caused by address changes. So, if your address differs from that used for this issue of the ALUMNUS, forward that change at once to the Alumni Office. 
5. Seats are allotted in accordance with date received, modified only as follows: ORDERS ARRIVING BEFORE OPENING DAY (JUNE 20) ARE INTEGRATED WITH THOSE RECEIVED JUNE 
20. AT CLOSE OF BUSINESS JUNE 20, ALL APPLICATIONS ON HAND AT THAT POINT ARE THOROUGHLY SHUFFLED, DRAWN BY LOT AND ASSIGNED A SEQUENCE NUMBER TO ESTABLISH THE ORDER OF SEAT ASSIGNMENT FOR EACH GAME. As many as 8,000 orders for each of the more popular games may arrive for processing June 20 (accounting for 16,000 tickets). Obviously, even a first-day order could be on the 50-yard line or beyond the goal line, depending on the luck of the draw. This is the answer to the alumnus' question as to why, although he ordered for all games on the very first day, he received fine seats for one game and poor ones for another, or fine or poor seats for all—or none for some games! 
After Monogram and Season Ticket orders (more about Season Tickets below) are satisfied, ONLY 4,000 TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE IN ND STADIUM BETWEEN THE GOAL AND 50-YARD LINE FOR ALUMNL Hence, for the more popular games it is readily seen how a first-day order could fare poorly. An alumnus who files his order even two or three days after June 20 can expect nothing but seats behind the north goal, or no seats at all (see diagram). 
General Sale: 6. If tickets remain for general sale for any games. General Use ticket applications will be mailed annually to ALL alumni the latter part of July, prior to the Aug. 1 opening of public sale. It is entirely possible in 1970 that Advance Sale described above could claim our entire ticket supply. The alternatives will definitely be established by July 15. General Use forms are transferable and the 
contributing alumnus who had already used his Advance Sale fcmn for two tickets may (riaoe additioiial orders via the genual fonn. These General Use forms cany no locational preferences as aO such orders are filled after Advance Sale purchases. 
7. Alumni chibs frequently ask for two or more seats in "choice loca­tion'' for raCBe «r fund-raiang awards. With our present critical situatitm this could be accom^ished only if a ccmtributing alunmus were to purchase the tickets in his name for whatever fund-raising ^mmick the club has in mind. The location of sea^ so purchased will be exactly in accordance with the date this order is received. We don't feel we can guarantee a choice location for a raflSe at the ex­pense of the individual alumnus. 
The Season Ticket Situation. For the FOURTH year in a row our Season Ticket sale has been ftozen at 1966 figures. Again, any Season Tickets not renewed will be used to help relieve the pressure from contributing alumni on an individual game basis. They will not be offered again for sale as Season Tickets. 
Regan adds territory 
Brian C. Regan '61, a regional direc­tor of development for the Notre Dame Foundation in five midwestem states, has assumed responsibility for the entire Area Three region. This territory reaches from Indiana to the northern tip of Maine and all down the eastern seaboard to Virginia with the exception of metropolitan New York. 
Originally from Joliet, lU., Regan 
now lives in South Bend with his wife, Sharon, and their three children. Following hb graduation fam the University, Regan ^ent four years in the Marine Corps and now holds the rank of captain in the Marine Onps Reserve. He is on the board of directors for the St. Josei^i Valley ND Chib and has been with the foundation ofEcc for the past two years. 
-^^^ 

Krashna in asSBP 
The junior team of David M. Krashna and Mark E. Winings swept to a decisive victory in the ND student body elections held on campus last month. Krashna, an English major from Pittsburgh, Pa., and Winings, a government major from Elwood, Ind., received more ttian 63 per cent of the student vote in winning the presidency and vice-presidency, respectively. 
Krashna, the first black man to be elected SBP at ND, and Winings, a Protestant in a University community that is 96 per cent Catholic, said they believe they won because they campaigned on a personal level and emphasized positive student govern­ment reforms that would bring campus politics down to the individual level. 
Especially concerned about the 

Richard Hatcher, Dr. Spock and William Kunstler (I to r) spoke at ND. 

Visitors of note 
BRiEFS 
Festival '70 
Sophomore Literary Festival '70 has a new note. Guest speakers are visiting ND classes and meeting informally with the students. Theo­dore Solotaroif, editor of the New American Review; Claude Brown, Manchild in the Promised Land; pop-journalist Tom Wolfe; and Gary Snyder, beat movement poet, headline the program. This year's festival focuses on poets, including Ishmael Reed, Stuart Montgomery, Lee Harwood, Nathaniel Tarn, Anselm Hollo, Michael Anania and Allen Planz. 

ForaH Bieets 
The All-University Forum spent March 17 in an open "information gathering" before convening privately. Student life and government, the lot of the graduate student in the ND community, efforts of the University Arts Council to renovate the fieldhouse, the chancellor-president movement, resident hall life and the campus ministry were topics discussed. 

Elect edaeatars 
ND's Institute for Studies in Educa­tion announced the names of 24 newly elected members to its National Advisory Council. John Gardner, head of the National Urban Coalition, Francis Keppel, chairman of the board of the General Learning Corp., and Rev. Michael P. Walsh SJ, president of Fordham U. were among those named. The institute encompasses the education enter­prises of ND and St. Mary's and includes graduate studies, teacher preparation, educational research and a counseling center. 


Aarards received 
Awards totaling $519,481 were accepted at the University during February. The funds for research and sponsored programs included three grants from the National Institutes of Health and one from the 
U.S. Office of Education for graduate education fellowships. 
SBP Krashna looki ahead. 
status of the arts at ND, Krashna had promised during the campaign to help establish an arts center if elected. He is a former Student Union Academic Commissioner and has been especially active in the black recruitment program and the Afro-American Society. Both he and Winings have been active on the Alumni Student Relations Panel, a student group involved in communicating with alumni. 
The ND community in recent weeks has had the opportunity to listen to some of the more notable headline-makers in American society. 
Dr. Benjamin Spock spoke on campus Feb. 20 discussing dissent and social change. The physician, who in 1969 was acquitted of federal charges in connection with anti-war counseling, told his audience not to e]q»ect to share in the establishment's power "if you only ask politely." 

Richard G. Hatcher, mayor of Gary, Ind., told a March 6 ND audience that while the gross national product continues to reach record levels, the black and minority communities are finding conditions getting worse instead of better. 
Dr. James P. Shannon, former auxiliary bishop of the Catholic diocese of St. Paul-Minneapolis, made his first public appearance in more than a year March IS, telling an ND audience that he saw an analogy between the problems facing government and the universities and the troubles the Church is ex­periencing. 
A capacity crowd of more than 3,000 turned out March 22 in ND's Stepan Center to hear William M. Kunstler, defense attorney for the famed "Chicago Seven." Kunstler said the conspiracy trial symbolized a transition in eras for the forces of dissent in America, ushning in an era of "resistance" to replace the era of "protest" that had char­acterized the '60's. 






The National Scene 
Reporting on civil rights .. . tuition hikes .. . forecasts of disruption ... dissent and justice ... educators and politics 
•
 Turning Point? Over the past two years, the federal government increasingly put pressure on individual colleges and state college systems to end racial bias and provide greater opportunities for minority groups. But then: The top civil rights official in the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare resigned under fire. Congress showed a strong inclination to strip the department of its major administrative weapons against segregation. Vice-President Agnew denounced racial quotas and "open admissions" in higher education. Sud­denly there was much uncertainty about how vigorously the Administration would enforce the Civil Rights Act of 1964 on the nation's cam­puses. 

•
 'Universal Access': Everyone with a fair chance of academic success ought to be able to go to college if he wants to, says the prestigious Carnegie Commission on Higher Education. "In­equality of opportunity must not continue to sap the strength of our nation," the commission as­serts in a special report. It calls for "universal access" to higher education and sets a deadline: 1976. 

•
 Rising Tuition: Tlie pressure of inflation on education costs is forcing many colleges and uni­versities, public and private, to raise tuition once again. "We must plan on regular annual increases in student charges over the foreseeable future," says an administrator in the Ivy League, where tuitions are heading for $2,500 and more a year. 

•
 Research First: President Nixon wants to be sure education programs work before he seeks large outlays of new funds. He has proposed a National Institute of Education "as a focus for educational research and experimentation." 

•
 Troubled Science: American science needs a lot more money to escape mediocrity, warns the National Science Board. It says that a lack of funds, especially from the federal government, is making it difiScult for scientists to "respond to new ideas and new opportunities." 

•
 Turbulence Ahead: Amid increasing reports of renewed violence on a number of campuses, many college educators sense that the 1970's will be no less disruptive than the previous decade. "The peak of activism has not yet been reached," one 


university administrator told colleagues at a na­tional conference. Others agreed. They said they expected urgent social problems to involve their institutions more deeply in off-campus affairs. Conversations also turned to such issues as the effect of open-admission policies on higher educa­tion, the financial pli^t of institutions, and changes in campus governance and the academic job market. 
•
 Campus Dissent: Colleges and universities have to maintain order; they cannot tolerate "the number and kinds of disruptions that have be­come commonplace." In makfaig that observation, however, a special panel of attorneys and aca­demic leaders also cautioned that "there is a risk that certain efforts to maintam order may them­selves be excessive and may indirectly contribute to disruptions." Institutions should seek "order with justice," said the panel, a commission of the American Bar Association, and guarantee their students the right to dissent. 

•
 Recruiting Slowfdom): Business firms are not looking for as many new college graduates as they used to. After a decade of expanding job oppor­tunities, reports the College Placement Council, industry has reduced its campus recruiting this year by 16 per cent for bachelor's degree candi­dates, 26 per cent for master's degree candidates, and 14 per cent for Ph.D. candidates. 

•
 Private Support: Corporations gave $340­million to education in 1968, the Council for Fi­nancial Aid to Education estimated after a survey of 795 companies. Contributions were 13.3 per cent higher than those of 1966, although the rate of increase showed a decline. Still, said the coun­cil, "there has been no lessening of the business community's commitment to underwrite an impor­tant share of the voluntary support of higher edu­cation." 

•
 Campaign Fever "We who have been in higher education have a feeling for .. . why there is such a degree of impatience among many in the country," says Edwin D. Etherington. He has decided to give up the presidency of Wesleyan University and seek the Republican nomination for U.S. Senator in Connecticut. Other college administrators and faculty members in several states also are seeking political office this spring. 


PREPARED FOR OUR READERS BY THE EDITORS OF THE CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION 
CLASSES 

ND's Joe Frietas (left) Paul Anderson and Percy Pierre (above) are all "alumni" of the White House Fellows Program. 


Three very ^in'^ fellow^s 
You begin the day by breakfasting with the President During the morn­ing, you meet, perhaps, John Mitchell and tell him what you think should be done about school desegregation. In the evening you attend a cocktail party with Gunnar Myrdal. 
Sound a bit unusual? Not if you're Paul F. Anderson '59, Joseph Freitas Jr. '61 or Percy A. Pierre '61, MS '63. 
These three ND graduates have been in the inner circles of national government, not as observers, but as participants. And they aren't govern­mental career men or politicians, either. The three are among those in the past six years who have been selected White House Fellows, and have not only seen the inner work­ings of government and national leadership, but have made their unique contributions to society in ways few individuals today ever dream would happen. 
The White House Fellows Program was begun in 1964 by President Lyndon Johnson, who was looking for a way to more actively involve people, regardless of their vocations or political philosophies, in govern­ment. John W. Gardner, then the president of the Carnegie Corp., came up with a suggestion — that a group of 15-20 highly motivated and outstanding young people be brought to Washington each year to gain first­hand experience and personal in­volvement in the governing of the nation. That suggestion was the basis of a program destined to be charac­terized by unique opportunities of service and association. 
The three ND men who were selected as fellows all served in three different years. Joe Freitas, the pub­lisher of Uie Washington Monthly, was a fellow during 1967-68; Paul Anderson, associated with Booz, Allen and Hamilton, Inc., in Chicago, was in Washington as a fellow dur­ing 1968-69; and Percy Pierre, a research engineer for RAND Corp., and an instructor at UCLA, is cur­rently serving as a fellow. 
During their year of tenure, the fellows are assigned to a governmental office, usually under the direct super­vision of a cabinet officer or council head. Anderson started his year on the payroll of the President's science adviser, Donald Homig. But in J[anu­ary, when the new team came into office, he began to work directly with Pat Moynihan on public transporta­tion bills, urban development and even served as Moynihan's man in the defense department In May, Anderson, at the request of Moyni­han, devoted some of his time to the Office of Economic Opportunity and helped restructure that agency. 
Joe Freitas was assigned as a fellow to Robert Weaver, then secre­tary of the department of housing and urban development As one of Weaver's special assistants, he had the unique opportunity to survey op­erations and the policy-making processes of the department He also was assigned special responsibilities with the undersecretary, including speech-writing, press relations on trips and working in the model-cities pro­gram. Freitas was Weaver's represen­tative at various conferences and on the departmental task force that im­plemented those sections of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 under HUD's jurisdiction. 
The program is made more unique and valuable because while the fel­lows themselves are gaining new in­sights into governmental problems and processes, they are also contributing to the solution of those very prob­lems. Then, when their year as fel­lows is complete, they return to communities and jobs with deeper understanding of the workings of a nation — and, as the program's state­ment of purpose reads, "a sense of personal involvement in the leader­ship of the society, a vision of great­ness for the society and a sense of responsibility for bringing that great­ness to reality." 

CLASS NOTES 
15 HAPTY QUOTING Hanqr is my opportunity to quote from a letter received £rom Rev. PATRICK QUINLAN 'IS, who is pastor of Our Lady of Fatima Catechumeiute, 300 Ashton Ave., Kingstree, S.C. 29SS6. "A broken arm prevented me from writing sooner. My catechist is writing this for me. The enclosed literature will give you some idea about the activities of this mission for the past 23 years. Prior to that, I gave my energies to the Hartford diocese and the Rural Life Conference." I would like to accept his warm welcome to visit the mission, and I'm sure Fr. Pat extends that invitation to all ND men and their families. 
Our good fiiend WILLIAM E. KENNEDY '15, who resides at 1589 Oak Park Dr., Owensboro, Ky. 42301, sends the following news: "I would like to attend the ND reunion next June, but suffered permanent eye damage two years ago, which makes it rather hard for me to get around, especially in large groups. So I regret to advise that I doubt my attendance. My disability is such that I can still walk around and remain active in business and civic affairs, although I cannot read, drive a car or recognize people unless they are very near me. I think you should know this, so you will not get the impression that I have lost interest in ND or the fine group of fellows that I had the privilege of meeting there." 
Just received this report on a happy occasion Nov. 16, 1969. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH FLYNN LL.B. "17, 405 Parkway Dr., Caiy, 111. 60013, celebrated Joe's birthday by inviting eight friends to their Pompano Beach apart­ment BILL REDDEN '14, 125 N.E. 10th Ave., Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES W. BACHMAN, II Sunset Lane, Pompano Beach, Fla. 33062, were present We extend our belated good wishes for good health. 
The many ND friends of JOSEPH H. FARLEY LL.B. '22 wfll be saddened to learn of his death Jan. 7. He is survived by his widow, two daughters and three grandchildren. Mrs. Farley resides at 721 N. Bamsdale Rd., LaGrange Park, 
111. 60525. The funeral Mass was said at St Francis Xavier Church, LaGrange. 
I regret the belated mention of the death of FLOYD W. SHAFER, 911 Oyman St, Watertown, Wis. 53094. He is survived by his widow, who still resides at that address. May the souls of these ND men and the souls of all the faithful departed through the mercy of God rest in peace. 
Class reunion, 1970: This, the decade of the 70s, is also the SSth year for the Class of 1915. At the outset, I must correct an error in ray notes in the January-February issue. Instead of June 8-10, the correct dates of the 1970 reunion are June 12, 13 and 14. This should, indeed, be a memorable occasion for members of the class of '15, with a class dinner, the reunion banquet, campus tours and everything else to make this weekend an occasion to remember. There is a surprise in store for you, especially if you have not been on campus in recent years to see the tremendous growth and academic progress of ND and to get firsthand ii^ormation as to why your Alma Mater ranks high among the top uni­versities of the worid. 
So resolve now to attend the 1970 reunion, June 12, 13 and 14. Yoiu dass­mates will be disappointed if yoo are not there. 
Albert A. Kuhle 
117 Sunset Ave. LaGrange, ID. 60525 
17 THEY SURE ABE! Deadlines are fimny things to imdetstand by persons who do not deal with them. We are preparing our material today, Jan. 15, for the April and May issue that closes on March 9 and will be mailed to you on April 13; why that's springtime! 
Was BILL GRADY the only '17er at the Cotton Bowl? Thanks again, my good friend, for the Dallas papers, which are going the rounds now of the '17 Floridians: BACHMAN, PAUL FOGARTY, JOE FLYNN, etc. 
JOHNNY REYNOLDS, alias Rev. 
M. Simon OCSO, who is a Trappist monk and resides in Our Lady of Guadalupe Trappist Abbey, Lafayette, Ore., reports that they have a new abbot out there. Let us hope that he will loosen up on some of those medieval regulations and make life easier for that great little old two-miler. 
Personal to Joe Flynn and HUGHIE O'NEILL: Do you know that the '17ers have a rule that golf carts catmot be used until you break 80, and we mean years, not strokes. Say, why not a Florida foursome—he's nuts about alliteration— with Charlie Bachman and Paiil Fogarty? 
Speaking of alliteration—^well, look it up in your dictionary—how lucky we were to have such wonderful English teachers as Fr. Gene and Tom Burke, Leonard Carrico, Tom Crumley and Charles L. O'Donnell. Did we miss any? They were all good. 
JOHN URBAN RILEY, our distinguished class poet, is relaxing in Grenada, West Indies, and will return to Maine by way of Florida, the long way around. Leave it to the Duke to pick a different spot We thought Grenada was the . name of a South Bend movie theatre. Say, wouldn't it be great to hear from some of the Old Guard? How about it Charlie Bachman, HARRY BAUJAN. DUTCH BERGMAN, JOHN CASSIDY, OSCAR DORWIN, BILL HYNES, HARRY KELLY, FRANK KIRKLAND, JIMMY PHELAN, GEORGE SHANAHAN and LEO VOGEL? Well, we can dream, can we not? Let's have a coimt now for the class reunion next June. 
This episode happened more than 25 years ago, so it's time to tell about it again. During W.W. H we i^ayed Michigan at home in 1943 and many Chicago fans who came down on the South Shore specials, because of gas rationing, rushed over to Sweeney's Sham­rock Cafe to pass away the time before the game. It seems that the jukebox would play only two pieces, regardless of the number a patron would punch. They were the ND Victory March and "Praise the Lord and Pass the Ammunitioit" Persons who wanted to hear "My Wld Irish Rose" or "On Galway Bay" com­plained to the bartender who told them he was sorry and had reported it It turned out that big FRANK HOGAN had plugged the box when he stopped by for an eye opener. How about that? 
You have all heard about scare advertising and we are not going to tdl you that ttit s yonr brt ( attend m dan lennion and see i ;of yonr eld aMtae dmnqs and dissii the one coaMOf'up in June is tfie neit one and die dates a n 12,13 and 14. Please remenoer XuM HCMiLANDv ino passed away lecenfly, in your pnyeis. 
Dan E. atgartner Jr. P.O. Box 75 Haiheit. Midu 4911S 
I t 'raVBE All. SET IIP Hope yoDT plans are all set to retnni to campus June 12, 13 and 14. Remember, yoa are a meniber ct Ae SIVYear CMb. The Unhrenity thinks yen are an important person and hopes youll attend. They have "set np" a taUe i^it up finmt for you at the alnmm dinner. Tint proves to me that your presence is really appreciated, sa let than know now that yoa win be there. ReservatioiB will be made for yoD at the Morris Inn, and, sme, bring the wife. 
Sold birth<fay greetints to: April 25, EDWARD J. McOSKER 17. 525 N. Mdrose Ave.. Elfin. HL 60121; >^iril 26, NEIL J. "WHTTEY" WHALEN MJ>.. 1020 Cadieux Rd.. Giosse Pointe Pari;, Mich. 48236; April 28. WILLIAM H. KELLY, 1950 Reeveston RA. Ridmiond. Ind.; and ALLAN W. FRITSCHE, 575 Washington Ave., Etyiia, (%io 44(B5; May 1, GEORGE D. HALLER 19, II030 Hubbaid, Ltvonia. MidL; May 10. RICHARD J. MONROE '12. 845 Irving Park Rd., Chicato. HL 60613; May 24, HARRY C. BAUJAN 17, 2069 Rustic Rd. Dayton. Ohio; May 24, Rev. GEORGE L. HOLDERITH CSC. University filfinnaiy. Notre Dame^ Ind. 46556; May 28. DANIEL E. HILGARTNER '17. P.O. Box 75, Hariiert, Mich. 49115. 
Wedding aimiversaiy: June 7, Jeaimetle and JAMES P. LOGAN. 2951 S. FOIinore Way. Denver. Qdo. 80205. Ordination day: Jane 10. REV. CHARLES 
J. WILLIAMS CSC, St Malady Rectory. 311 R Grove Ave., RantouL HL 61866. 
It's reported that JOHN P. DANT JR. '11, 1618 San Helen Dr.. Daneden, Fla., is contemplating a return to the campus for reunion festirities—his first visit in more than 20 years. 
Looking forward to seeing yoa this Jane. Whhing you loads of good holth. May you live to be 100. . 
George B. Waage 3305 Wti^twood Ave. Chicago, m. 60647 
1» ONLY 3 MISSES IN 4» YEARS WALTER MILLER writes he has missed three home football games in 49 years— . a real record. However, the athletic ofBce b shortsighted by sending men like Walter tickets that are back of the goal posts. He reports that JOHN PATRICK MURPHY, who died recently, roomed with Walter. Otigiiially from Boston, John spent a greater part of his life in Clevdand as an attorney. He was a member of the board of trustees of ND. An intetestiiig story is ttdd of him as manager of athletics. He was tapped on the shoulder by a little fdlow who wanted a pair of football shoes with deats on them. John looked down at the little fdlow and said. "You're too small to pi v football and besides they don't make shoes flut would fit your small feet" The request 
was repeated day after day until finally the shoes were given to him—^Knute Rockne. Walter's oldest brother, RED MILLER, on Walter Camp's All American and father of Creighton and Tom, died recently. The only instance in American football where father and son were All American. Red was president of our national ND alumni. 
EUGENE OTOOLE, known as the "Merchant Prince" of St. Joe, Mich., came to Brownson Hall in September, 1916, after a year at St. Peter's College in his home town of Newark, NJ. He wanted to be a chemist and really worked at it, together with JIM BAILEY, and earned a B.S. in chemistry. Like many of us, he entered the armed services for chemical warfare service but returned to Corby Hall and then Sorin Hall. He was a brilliant student, as our engineers had to be to stick it out. He was admired by all who knew him for his cheerful, pleasant personality. He never became a chemist because of a young lady. He could not resist her charming personality. So, after the wedding, he joined her father's large department store at St. Joe, Mich. He contacted Bright's disease some years ago and could not attend our last reunion 
although he was secretary of our class. He suffered a long time, and death came on Feb. 25. 
SHERWOOD DIXON will send out a letter to all of you in April. He mentions four sons graduated from ND and he will go to ND early in the week of our reunion. JOHN BALFE and LEONARD CALL have reservations at Morris Inn for June 7 through 14. Stories exchanged during the reunion will recall many thrilling events and occasions, perhaps forgotten. It will thrill all of us by recalling them. 
I called the Alumni Office and TOM SULLIVAN will contact ED DORAN to help in local assistance in making arrangements for a great reunion. He has welcomed members to bring their wives and come early but make reservations for the Morris Inn. They will be guests of the alumni during the 12th to I4th. Earlier arrivals at members' expense. Your wives will enjoy the atmosphere of the campus—make no mistake about it. 
James H. Ryan 2470 East Ave., Apt. 314 Rochester, N.Y. 14610 
<22 SAD REPORT Two more fine classmates have been called from this Ufe by God: MICHAEL E. FAHEY JR., of 2810 Crosby Ave., Dormont, Pittsburgh, Pa., on Dec. 22, and JOSEPH H. FARLEY, of 721 Bamsdale Rd., LaGrange Park, 111. 60525, on Jan. 7. 
JOHN "RED" REARDON, who resides at 112 S. Homewood Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15208, wrote us about the death, as follows: "Mike was complaining of chest pains. His good wife suggested a visit to St. Clare Hospital for a checkup. He died while undergoing an examination —apparently from a massive cardiac arrest. Mike retired some time ago as design engineer for the Kappers Co., and until recently, he had been doing some instructional work with a Pittsburgh Technical Institute. Besides his widow, he leaves one married daughter, an unmar­ried daughter and one son, also unmarried." 
TOM S. McCABE, Elmburst, III., and 
JERRY DIXON, Evanston, III., both 
wrote in connection with the illiiess 
and death of Joe Farley. Too, we received 
a very sweet note from Joe's widow, 
Alicia Farley, who wrote this letter: 
"Thank you for your kind and consoling 
letter. Joe was sick only four days—a 
heavy cold progressing into pneumonia, 
which he was not able to fi^t off, 
due to the many kinds of medication he 
had been taking the last few years for 
rheumatoid arthritis. He was slowly 
getting more crippled up with this, and was 
worried he would become a bed-patient 
and helpless. Our dear Lord took care of 
that and called him before that condition 
became a fact. He suffered greatly— 
constant pain the last two years and I am 
sure he is in heaven now relieved of all 
care and sorrow. He held you in great 
affection, always." 
Shortly after Joe was graduated from law 
at ND, he joined the FBI organization 
and was assigned to the Buffalo office. 
He was with them for a five-year period. 
Then he signed vrith the Veterans' 
Administration Chicago office, and served 
them for a period of 25 years until 
his very recent retirement due to ill health. 
Besides the widow, Alicia, the survivors 
are two daughters, Mrs. Lucille Fisher 
and Mrs. Colette McConnell, and three 
grandchildren. We extend our prayerful 
sympathy to the widows of the deceased, 
and to all family members, also to our 
neighbors of 1923 who lost by death 
recently their beloved LOUIS V. 
BRUGGNER, class secretary extraordinary. 
We received a most welcome note from SYLVESTER "LEFTY" STEINLE, of 1183 Juniper Ave., Akron, Ohio 44310, telling of his recent retirement from General Tire and Rubber Co. He says he would be very pleased to hear from some of his '22 classmates, and that he hopes to be present in 1972 for our 50th anniversary class reunion. 
VINCE HANRAHAN, Chevy Chase, Md., very kindly sent us a Christmas report he received from JOHN HILKERT, of Phoenix, Ariz., which we quote in part: "My greetings may come a little late to you this year because I am on a jury panel now in Maricopa County Superior Court When I came to Phoenix, there were only two divisions of superior court; now there are 24. In the course of my law practice, I have tried cases before juries, so now I find it a rather novel experience to be on the listening side. 
You can readily see that John Hilkert's life has not been a dull one. We almost forgot to mention that he was the first dean of commerce at the U. of Arizona. 
JOHN PAUL CULLEN became a grandfather on Nov. 19, when daughter Mary Alicia gave birth to a son, Christopher. J.P. also informs us that his son, Peter, is now at home with him after four years of Naval service aboard aircraft carriers in Vietnam waters. Peter attained the rank of lieutenant 
There is a letter addressed to Rev. GEORGE B. FISCHER CSC and the dass of '22 by Mrs. Raymond (Florence) Black, 1001 S. Pittsburgh St, Conndlsville, Pa. 15425: "We thank you for oEFeiing the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass for the repose of Ray's soul." 
Caribbean sea cruise department, February, 1970: Rev. George B. Fischer CSC on a Grace Liner and the DANIEL YOUNGs of Drexel Hill, Pa., aboard the Costa liner Frederico C, delayed for repairs at San Juan, Puerto Rico. 
Gerald "Kid" Ashe 175 Landing Rd., North Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
'23 Tacts RECUPERATE 
Recuperating, we hope, after recent hospitalizations are ED SHEA (three-week bout in January with pneumonia), ART DIEDRICH (afflicted since before Thanksgiving with a spnmg disc in his back) and HI HUNT (merry surgery at Christmas in Mayo Clinic and perhaps a happy come Easter). He and TOM LEE have it that the New Hampton KENNEDYS, RUSTY and WILLARD, are now semi-retired from the banking business and are spending that high interest in California and the Southwest 
PETE SWANSON sends a clipping regarding the LIEB's daughter, Mary Jane's, engagement to James A. McKay, a geophysicist in California, which is where HAROLD FABIAN HAYNES says he is semi-retired from the family enterprises. He is a Navy captain (retired—^"62), who swims, plays the piano and collects limited editions to be someday set up at ND where, according to the Alumni Office, he visited at last year's graduation and where the new library is set up to absorb "volumes." 
Some of you may remember the "Lilacs" (last house on the east side of Notre Dame Ave., at Napoleon St) and recall meeting Louise Peterson, widow of GROVER MALONE, and whose father was director of the ND band about '00 as a teacher of music. She has moved from South Bend after a half-century to Jackson, Miss., nearer her sister, Florence. Their mother, affectionately known by the students as "Ma Pete," remodeled the upper floors of the old yellow-brick house into a dorm for about a dozen fellows, probably the first private South Bend home to attain off-campus status due to increased enrollment following W.W. I. 

Perhaps the many friends of LOUIE BRUGGNER among the alumni of other classes might have more than a passing interest in the events leading to his death. During a more than 10-year period recently he had been hospitalized many times for illness and surgery, including a very serious heart attack. But he always managed to come up smiling, giving no indication that he was anything but hale and hearty afterward. However, those close to him knew it was only the facade he put on for the ones he met less frequently. 
His 69th birthday on Dec. 27 was spent with a few close friends and neighbors. On the following Monday, while at his downtown store directing and helping with the rearrangement of office furniture to be used in the anticipated rush of the '69 tax season, he suddenly became ill. Despite a quick ambulance trip plus immediate efforts of several doctors, the end came some five hours later in St Joseph's Hospital. 
Rev. LEO R. WARD CSC '23 repre­sented the University at the white vestment Mass, and gave his eulogy as a friend and classmate, while Rev. WILLIAM NEIDHART CSC of Holy Cross parish celebrated the Mass and gave the homily. Among those honored to be his bearers were E. WHITE, JOE NYIKOS, ED KREiMER, LEONARD MENNUCCI, 
JOE WOODKA and a cousin. Gene 
Putter. "He gave unselfishly of himself 
whenever requested" might well 
be his epitaph. 
It should mean something to all of us 
that since last July, our class has had 
more than its share of losses and we can 
now add the name of WILLIAM H. 
HASKINS to the list of the ones who 
will not make it in 1973. His widow, 
Gertrude, notified the Alumni Office that 
Bill died Feb. 25. He is also survived by a 
daughter, Mrs. Joan Ripp, and five 
grandchildren. Arrangements have been 
made for the customary Masses and the 
family may be contacted at 3534 84th St., 
Jackson Heights, Long Island, N.Y. 11373. 
Edward P. Kreimer 2827 Westbrook Dr., No. 233 Fort Wayne, Ind. 46805 
•24 FUN IN THE SUN A letter from JEROME C. ARNOLD '24 (just a fraction late for previous issue) advises that Jerry is now sunning himself at a permanent home at 5858 Midm'ght Pass Rd., Sarasota, Fla. 33581. He still maintains his home back in Davenport, where he will keep in touch with old friends in the good old summertime. He would like to hear from fellows in TV distance of Sarasota. Jerry is the father of four. The two boys went to ND and Tom graduated in '56. A daughter, Sr. Maiy Ann Arnold, is a Daughter of Charity nun in Saint Louis. The other daughter is Cathy Curran, a graduate of Marquette U., and now a practicing speech therapist. Jerry's letterhead carries the Lincoln Life Insurance Co. imprint. With a family like that and a business like that, Jerry is insured on both sides of the River Styx. 
Old Texas friends of Rev. JOE RICK CSC '24 will be pleased to know he is now at St. Edward's U. in Austin, Tex. 78704. LAWRENCE W. SPULLER '24, formeriy of Chicago, is now receiving his mail at 1951 N.E. 39th St., Light House Point, Fla. 33064. Is that a permanent home, Larry? WALTER 
G. NOVESKY "24, migrated from Evanston, III., to 846 Kerry Hill Dr., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15234. Hon. HUGH BOYLE '24 and other Pittsburghers could offer Walt a welcome. They just cannot retire some people: Most Rev. LAWRENCE GRANER CSC "24 is now in old Corby Hall and Bro. THEOPHILUS MACHEL­INSKI is at Archbishop Hoban High School in Akron. 
Had lunch with our synthetic classmate, federal judge JOHN KILKENNY '25 (sometimes '24). As usual, he was currently involved in making the public more aware of ND. He was supplying background material about DON MILLER '25 (Four Horsemen) and classmate of John's. Next day a feature column in the sports section of the Portland Oregonian publicized his recent selection to the football Hall of Fame. The Judge also nostalgically reminisced about the pre-air-travel days when West Coast students stayed at South Bend from September to June because a fast train took three and one-half to four days, one way, to travel home, and vacations would be spent mostly on the train if they had the money to buy the tickets. (Reminds me of the stories of early football prospects who arrived at ND from far 
corners via cattle-car hitchhike.) Another 
memory was BILL DEFFARARI, whose 
whereabouts were inquired into by ED 
MILLER '24 in the last issue. Kilkenny 
was making his first Homecoming 
appearance back at South Bend in 1929. 
He, Deffarari and some others were 
visiting the wrong end of town for kicks 
when Deffarari ran afoul of the police, 
who in those days retained some authority. 
Kilkenny told the cop he was a lawyer 
and wanted to speak for DelT. The 
officer told him to shut up or he would be 
with him. John's judicious future was 
evident even then, so he meekly followed 
to the station house where he put up a 
check for bail. Defl wanted to pay him 
back but Kilkenny, injudiciously, told him 
not to worry—he would stop payment 
on the check back in Pendleton, Ore., a 
far piece away in those days. But the police 
were heartless in those days, too, and 
didn't let it die there. In case that is why 
Deffarari is hard to locate, he can be 
told that all is well—he can go home; 
John decided to make the check good 
in preference to a reunion he hadn't planned 
with the South Bend police. The Judge 
really enjoyed the telling of this "true 
confession." We live and learn, he 
says, and adds that he hopes the present 
generation will do the same. That is what 
a rounded-character education did at 
ND in the early '20s. Look what 
happened to Kilkenny . . . our honorable 
federal district court of appeals judge 
with a letter from President Nixon to 
prove they are friends. 
On a sadder note, we grieve with the family on the death of JOHN N. STANTON LL.B. 74 who died Oct. 26, 1969. His son is chief trial deputy. Office of the Prosecutor, Criminal Court Building, Crown Point, Ind. 46307. 
James P. Durcan 
5400 S.W. Scholls Ferry Rd. 
PorUand, Ore. 97225 
"25 hETS TRY AGAIN 
This item was supposed to go in the last issue so I place it first. Our class will be together in one hall this June. We will be housed in the newly constructed Planner Hall, one of the high-rises. We will be on lower floors with elevators available. The '25ers will have use of one of the hall's beautiful lounges for our hospitality suite. Tell your wife she "can come along" for your SOth with accommo­dations at Morris Inn. Pick yourself a roommate and write him so you will both be there. You will have a letter with more details before you read this. 
BERNIE LIVERGOOD writes that he's looking forward to seeing us June 12, 13 and 14. He said these reunions always give him a lift—he looks so much better than everyone else. 
BILL KRIDER sent a nice check for our Mass fund, which I forwarded to HANK WURZER. Bill is in charge of the bonding department in the district attorney's office in Pittsburgh. He hopes to make our reunion and sends regards to the class. Thanks again, BiU. 
LEO POWERS is taking care of the Chicago area contacts and will write or call the '25ers. Leo says, "While looking over the list of the class, I reviewed the names of the deceased members. It forcibly occurs to me that those of us who still survive should be grateful for having so long enjoyed the blessings of this world." 
You are so li^t, Leo! 
Travding letind Sean executive VIRG 
PAGAN writes from SiniaiioK that he 
and Dorothy are on a Ihiee-month trip to 
the South Pacific. Orient and Hawaii 
He will be back for our reunion June 12, 
saying, "May it be the best in our 
45-year histoiy.'* 
I am sure the dass wasfaapiqr to hear 
about DON MILLER, our president, being 
elected into the football Hall at Fame. 
No class in the country: but ours can say 
that four of its membeishave had dns 
honor bestowed on it Cbngratul^om, ' 
DoiL That's more to cdArate at out 43tt. 
Be with us June 12, 13 and 14! [r 
John P. Huriey 
208S Braokdale Rd. 
Toledo, Ohio 43606 
<27 EASIERN NEWS 
The news this time is mostly &om the East. 
I received a chatty letter from ART 
MONACO a few weds ago. It is worth 
repeating in full: "Saw JOE NULTY 
aiid his wife about a month ago. As you ; 
know, he is a retired probation officer bom 
Qizabeth, NJ. About the midifle of 
February, he and his wife, Hly, pianned 
to go to Florida for a vacation. 
"CHARLES BERETZ retired about six 
months ago from the automobile indistry. 
He has moved from White Plains, N.Y., 
to the sunny south—Stuart, Fla. I under­
stand fishing is great down that way. 
"BILL DEGNAN is semi-retired firom 
M. W. Kellogg Co. You know, ffin is one of their top engineers. Once in a while we lunch together and kick it around. As a matter of fact, he and his wife have been exploring the USA recently. 
"Spoke to DAN CUNNINGHAM not long ago and he is mudi, much better. He b up and around and working again. He was in Chicago to visit his dan^ter and grandcluldren for the holidays. 
"See JIM QUINN once in a while in Rahway, N J. He is practically out of town most of the time. Someday next week . he and I, Joe Nulty and Dan Cmmingham expect to meet for lundi and have a InIL You can imagine the session we are going to have. PAUL FENTON's bUrney wouldn't even come dose." 
I also have beard from Dan Cmmingham. His health is returning, he expected to spend about three weeks in Jamaica in late February and eariy Mardi and thought that would put him back on his feet He says that MARK NEVILS called before Dan left New York City. Mark is fine and getting ready to retire in the near future, but his plans are still a bit up in the air. 
I saw ED MCLAUGHLIN in Chicago the other day. He is still activdy engaged in the practice of law. Few lawyers are thinking of retiring at this stage; Ed is no exceptioiL 
Clarence J. Ruddy 
III W. Downer Place Aurora, IIL 60504 
<2S TWO MOIE •EinEES Add AUGIE GRAMS and JOHN FORGE to our retired list Augie retired from bis nulling and iriwlesale distributing business in LaCrosse, Wis. Althou^ he and Margaret keep their home in LaCrosse, they have an apartment at 1930 Gnlf Shore Blvd., Naples, Fla. 33940. JOHN FORGE is enjoying golf, boiriing and fishing 


Congrats 
in retirement in Big Stone City, S.D., 
after 40 years with Goodyear. Also add 
PAT CANNY to the list I sent to you in 
February on '28 men at the Cotton Bowl. 

Although ORVILLE MURCH retired in 1966, he found he could not take inactivity, so became a real estate broker in Alpena, Mich. ED McCLARNON, who retired from insurance a few years ago, is practicing law at 70 Pine SL, New York, N.Y. 10005. GLEN HATCH is enjoying his post-retirement venture in "Hatch Ventilators" for the boating fraternity, with addresses at P.O. Box 28, Abington, Pa. 19001 and P.O. Box 2603, Delray Beach, Fla. 33444. 
LES FLEWELLING had an article in the January, 1970, Dental Laboratory Review on trade associations. Les is consultant to the Southern California Dental Laboratory Guild. JIM CONMEY is a director and vice-president of Tobin Packing Co., Rochester, N.Y. His son was graduated from Marquette Law School in 1968. 
DICK GREENE and MOdred are {banning to visit Japan, the Philippines 

EUGENE FARRELL 78 has retired as editor of the* Jersey Journal (Jersey City. NJ.)> after some 40 years in the newspaper business. He will remain on the staff as executive editor, however. 
A. M. GRIFFIN "29 has been appointed manager of patents in the research department of Bethlehem Steel Corp., Bethlehem, Pa. GrifiBn joined the firm in 1934 as a patent engineer. He resides in Bethlehem with his family. 
BERNARD T. HEITZ '32 has retired after 26 years with the United States Steel Corp., where his most recent position was assistant superintendent-alloy bar mill. He and his wife have moved from Homewood, 01., to Clarksburg, W. Va. 
PAUL A. HOST '33 has been named director of development and public relations at Viterbo College, La Crosse, Wis. Host, the captain of the 1932 ND football team, is the father of four children and resides with his wife in La Crosse. 
RICHARD S. SMITH '37 has been appointed western chemical sales representative of Phelps Dodge Refining Corp., El Paso, Tex. Smith, who joined the firm' in 1946, will assist in the marketing of copper chemicals in the West Coast area. 
JOSEPH B. MOORMAN '39 has been promoted to marketing director for the L-SOO commercial super-freighter program at the Lockheed-Georgia Co. Before joining Lockheed, Moorman was associated with General Electric. He, his wife and their four daughters reside in Atlanta. 
and Hawaii in May. Last year they visited Panama and eight countries in South America. VINCE CARNEY and Mary sent me a card from Mexico City. Please drop me a note when you travel. I expect to be in London in August at the London School of Economics and in Geneva in September for the Second World Conference of the International Industrial Rdations Assn. 
A friend of mine from Cincinnati showed me a clipping in the Cincinnati Post and Times Star which carried the name of JOE MORRISSEY and his wife, among others, who welcomed black families as their neighbors in Hyde Pailc-Mt. Lookout 
I am sure many of you joined me and others in the class in the corpontte Communion for members of our class for the intention of our living and deceased classmates and their loved ones on Feb. 
22. This program was suggested by GERALD SHEIBLEY and was carried out last year by many classmates. Incidentally, Gerald isfinancial secretary of the local K of C in Fostoria, Ohio. He is witfi the Defense Supply Agency based in Toledo. Our class treasurer, JOE LANG­TON, arranged for two Masses at ND, one for the deceased and another for the living members of our class. 
GENE FARRELL, editor of the Jersey Journal, accompanied the SL Peter's basketball team to ND again this year. RALPH GARZA is with Calculadoras ElectTOnidas, S.A., at Saltillo, Coah, Mexico. Rev. GEORGE BENAGLIA CSC is now located at 301 Taylor Dr., Sienna Vista, Ariz. 85635. KEN POWER is commissioner of the board of elections for Monroe County, N.Y., in Rochester. 
The interest in our ISth annual post-game cocktail party after the Purdue game on Sept. 26, 1970, seems to be generating earlier than usual. The following have already indicated they will be with us: 
G. Sheibley, J. SHEEDY, J. Morrissey, 
A. MILLER, A. Grams, J. Coiuney, 
V. WALSH, P. Canny. 
Since I covered the sad death notices in some detail in my February, 1970, news­letter, I will merdy mention again how much we will miss MARION HEFFER­

NAN, Dr. PAUL TOBIN and Dr. 
EDWARD J. CONLIN. Please remember 
them in your prayers. May I ask you 
also to pray for LOUIS BRUGGNER, 
the truly great secretary of the class of 73, 
who died in December, 1969. Lou and I 
exchanged ideas regularly on the ftmctions 
of a class secretary and he was most 
helpful and always ready to be of 
assistance to me and to our class. 
I mentioned in the last ALUMNUS 
that JOHN GAUGHAN and Blanche are 
back in the U.S. in Hot Springs, Ark. 
They stayed in the Dominican Republic 
during the revolution and watched die 
fireworks from their hotel roof. They 
enjoyed their years in Spain. They 
have two grown children. 
FRANK DONOVAN and Louise liked it 
so well in California that they will locate 
there permanently soon at 1520 San Pablo 
Ave., Lake San Marcos, Calif. 02969. 
JOHN FAGAN and MOdred met TIM 
TOOMEY 79 on the train on their 
return from the Army game. It was good 
to hear from John again. He is stQ! in 
Warwick, R.I. Tim Toomey is now in 
Boston with the U.S. Department of Labor. 
Louis F. Buckley 
641S N. Sheridan Rd. 
Chicago, 111. 60626 
Va AND ALASKA MAKES 50 Prof. PAUL BARTHOLOMEW was on leave last spring to lecture and do research in and near Dublin. He was joined there by Agnes in May and sent in the following account of his trip: "We left Dublin the first part of June and went to London and from there to Geneva, Zurich and Vienna. In Geneva, it was raining, although one day the sun did shine, but in Vienna it was pouring. Two nights we were there we went to Strauss concerts and on the Sunday we went to Mass where the Vieima Boys' Choir sang, so it was not a total loss. We then went to Athens, found the sun shining there and really enjoyed our visit It was in Athens one day, while sitting in a sidewalk cafe on Constitution Square, that I heard my name called and saw a former student of mine, MICHAEL ALBIN '64. He had been in Afghanistan with the Peace Corps and was on his way to France where he planned to go to school during the summer and then back home. From Athens we flew to Tel Aviv, and I must say that my impression is that the Arabs are simply envious of what the Israelis have done. Israel is simply an oasis in the desert. It is really a very pleasant place. 
"From there we flew over Cyprus, Turkey, then south of Tehran to Bombay, where it was really warm, and then on to Ceylon. That gave us a real touch of the tropics and I shall never forget that 23-mile drive into Colombo through the palm forest and through seemingly millions of natives all over the road with the driver of the rickety airport bus seeming to drive only with the accelerator and horn. As we came around one curve, there in the middle of the road stood an elephant. That had to be a high point of the tour. We went on to Bangkok and there were given a big welcome with a car from the embassy waiting at planeside when we stepped down. A former student of mine, KARL ACKERMAN '49, is number two man there in the embassy so he arranged for that and for a subsequent 
VIP reception at the hotel. It was all very 
nice. Kari invited us to his home for 
dinner one evening and we met his 
wife and family. His wife is a beautiAil 
blond and certainly does much for Kail in 
his official capad^ there in Thailaiid. 
His children are likewise a real asset to Um. 
"In Thailand I had arranged to meet 
some judges and lawyers as well as to 
observe some courts in operation since I 
want to do a comparative judicial study 
of some sort The same thing was true 
in Hong Kong on our next stop, where I 
was able to meet some law peoi4e and 
to observe the courts in operatioii. We 
enjoyed Hong Kong very much and went up 
to Red China's border to take a look 
across the bamboo curtain. In Tokyo, 
I met another former student, PAUL 
CHANG MCCULLOCH who got his Phj>. here in 1953. He is teaching at Soi^iiaU. and drove us around Tokyo and then with his wife, Mary, went with us to Kyoto on the super express, the 'Bullet Train.' His fluent Japanese and his knowledge of Japan were obviously of tremendous assistance. 
"Leaving Tokyo, we flew across the International Date Line to Honolulu and got some more sunshine and a bit of rest as well. Then on to Portland and Seattle back on the mainland of the U.S. and from there to Juneau, Alaska. We went there chiefly because we wanted to get that last of the SO states on our record but we again thoroughly enjoyed our visit—partly because it was such a change from the sun and sands of Honolulu to the snow-capped mountains of Alaska. From there we went back to Seattle, caught a plane to Chicago and then on to South Bend and we were in a position to argue with the members of the Flat Earth Society. It was really a fabulous trip and we enjoyed it more than I could possibly say." 
Class President BOB VOGELWEDE writes, "We are leaving Feb. 23 for Mexico and expect to return the week before Easter. I have a brother in Mexico City who has two sons at ND and we will spend some time with him. We haven't been there before and are looking forward to seeing the country." 
The annual Class of 79 football game get-together will follow the Purdue game Sept 27. 
Lawrence F. Stauder 
Electrical Engineering Department 
Engineering Bldg. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'30 LIFE BEGINS AT THE 4«k Bishop VINCENT J. McCAULEY CSC wrote to the class from Fort Porta], Uganda, East Africa, to express his disappointment at missing the 40th reunion: "Fort Portal, Uganda, is a 'far piece' from the campus and sometimes the equatorial mail-bag is slightly delayed . . . like the arrival of the November ALUMNUS on the 27th of February. With 45 CSCs (priests, brothers and sisters) in our mission we do, of course, get news of ND but the ALUMNUS is still a must 
"When TIM TOOMEVs 'come-all-ye' arrived recently to alert the class of '30, I really wanted to respond positively. The best I can hope for, however, is to join all of you in spirit as I have the past 39 times. I've already marked my Mass calendar for June 13 (a Mass for the deceased members) and June 14 (for the 
Imng meinbeis). My Spiiitiiai Seoeiaiy, 
Our Lady, will ttke cavs of the deUfli, 
sudi as remcrthcnng all of your names 
and your needs, and <rf indndug me and 
other expatriates among die ooncdebranis 
at the campus Mass. 
"Rev. RAY MASSART -IT is die only 
other old-timer over here. Ihe rest are 
5-15-year gtadoales. Nevetthdesi, aD <rf 
them join me in pnyafid tood iridies 
to you and to die retnimng meiribers of 
die dass of "ao." 
GORDON cons plans to be at the 
leunion widi HAD MANSKE, bodi from 
Stevens Point, Wis. He said he saw 
JIM SKAHAN in Bostm last fidL HENRY 
FREY. convalesdng from a hernia 
operation, says he win be at the reunion 
in June. J<NIN MANNING, now lini« 
in Silver Siting, Md., expects to be at 
the reimion. He his been engineering 
officer at the Naval Researdi Lab since 
1947 after a 25-year stint in the Amy. 
He expressed fab sorrow over the news <n 
PINKY CASSIDVs deadL GEORGE 
O'MALLEY is now senior judge, U.S. Navy 
Court of Militaiy Review. We assome 
he win be at the reunion. JOE DILLON 
was hospitalized for a vridle with a heart 
condition, but is in good condition now. 
An eailier cohmm mentioned a 
VERNON "BUCK** SLACK sdidaiship 
fund created by Us business associates at 
International Salt, and other friends. 
The money for tUs fund goes directly to 
the Office of Financial Aid and Sdiolanhips 
at ND, directed by Bro. KIERAN 
RYAN CSC. 
Dr. NICH(HJtf MAURIELLO of Philaddpiiia win be on the campus this summer. He was recendy dted in the Intenatioiial Who's Who for international rehabilitation medicine. 
Tim Toomey, national and ilobal chair­man of the 1970 reunion, already reports that he h»s CiToiaMe responses from BILL WALSH (just retired from the Navy Department), BILL REAUME, AL SHIPACASSE, JOE ABBOTT, DICK BLOOM. KARL BRENNAN, BOB COONEY, Rev. JIM RIZER, VINCE McCULE, JOBS V. MORAN (Washing­ton, D.C.) and TCHM BRADLEY. 
Judge TOM McDOUGAL reported diat he had seen JOHN VOSS at several judges' meetings and learned of the illness of ins brother, Don Voss, who is in the Veterans Hospital at Woods, Wis. Tom win be at the reunion. Kail Brennan stated dut TOM FROST and ED REDMOND wiU be at the reunion with him. Next he hopes to contact TOM KEEGAN and AL MONTI to assure their attendance. 
We have been promised more detaik soon about the reunion program by the Alumni Office. This information wiU be sent to you at once. But rit^t now the big push on attendance should continue and the regional committeemen should be contacting eveiy class member in thdr areas. 
BOB HELLRUNG was on campus in December and took in the ND-St Louis baskedMdl game in the ACC. 
FRANK X. O'NEILL must miss the reunion as he win be supervising a students' European tour at diat tune. 
This is the last ALUMNUS can for die reunion. Yon wiU be receiving other direct mailiiigt about its details. Cbntiiiue the roundup drive now in progress to insure the best attendance ever. 
2! 
Life begins at the fortieth! 
Devere T. PlunkeU 
O'Shau^nessy Hall 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 


Old faces • • • nei^ places 
•31 NEWS, BUT ABOin* WHOM? 
For a "those-were-the-good-old-days" session you can hardly do better than to spend an hour or two with Eddie Mahon, who retired in 1963 as manager of the chemistry store in the college of science. It was not only there that he spread his Irish charm; but with two of his daughters he and his songs and dances were the hit of many a campus club entertainment and stage show. Having spent 52 years in the service of the University, Eddie, now 81, lives with his wife, the former Ann Monahan of County Galway, in a small white home in Roseland, a couple of miles north of ND. His son, Joe, assistant director of administration in Lobund, has a home just two doors away. Eddie has "slowed up a bit," he'll admit, and his smiling Irish eyes now peer out at you from behind thick glasses. But his 

Dr. Leo F. Kuntz 
brogue is as pleasing as ever, his spirits are high and his love for Our Lady's school is as radiant as it was when he served generations of students and faculty with his efficiency and delighted all who knew him with his quick wit and his good nature. 
Dr. Leo F. Kuntz, head of the department of education from 1929 to 1949 and member of the faculty for 10 additional years, lives in Rancho Cordova, Calif., and is very much "unietired." Having obtained California licenses in clinical psychology and marriage counselling, he now has an office and a private practice in these fields as well as in educational guidance. After leaving ND and before going to California, Dr. Kuntz spent 
two years as head of the department of education at St. Mary's College (ND) and two years "in research efforts in gerontology at Mt. Angel College in Oregon." Dr. Kuntz is active in church affairs, having recently been elected to membership on his parish council. For recreation, he enjoys outdoor activities on the foothill ranch of one of his four sons, cutting wood, repairing fences and roads, hunting and fishing. By way of a tragic ending to this other>vise happy item about a well-known ND man's vigorous postretirement life, word was received not long ago of the death of Dr. Kuntz's youngest son. Dr. James Kuntz, and two of the latter's sons in the crash of a private plane near Lake Tahoe, Calif. 
Among Holy Cross priests once in teaching and administrative posts at ND and now stationed at the U. of Portland are the following: Rev. Frederick Barr, teacher of theology and prefect from 1954 to 1963, assistant at St. Mary's Cathedra], Austin, Tex., for a year, teaches theology; Rev. Thomas Kelly, professor of classics, prefect and rector for most of the years between 1929 and 1954, teaches classics; Rev. Bernard McAvoy spent many years in the '30s and '40s teaching philosophy and rectoring, prior to terms as superior of Moreau Seminary and then of Holy Cross College in Washington and his 1965 appointment to the faculty at the Oregon school; Rev. Joseph Powers, executive vice-president at Portland, taught history and prefected in the early '40s. 
Dr. Richard R. Vogt, B.S. '15, 
M.S. '16, Ph.D. '20, a student and then a teacher at ND from around 1910 until his 1956 retirement, lives in Dundee, Fla., with his son, with whom he is still associated in his long-time interest in real estate and construction. He was one of Rev. Julius Nieuwiand's first students and later became his professional associate and close friend. In his early days. Dr. Vogt taught classes in pharmacy and agriculture. After their discon­tinuance, he remained in chemistry until retirement 
Rev. John Wilson CSC 
BoxD Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
With spring here I am hopeful that the geriatric members of the Class of 1931 will experience a thinning of the blood and a return to more active participation in their class news. A few replies were fonvarded in connection with the checks sent in for the current alumni fund. Being short on news I carmot let anything go by. One from Charlottesville, Va., said: "Eileen and I have three daughters, Joan, Sue and Betsy, and nine grand­children. Our family is scattered from Ft Benning to Belgium." No return name was on this envelope! 
TOM COUCHLIN is now associated with Paul D. Speer and Associates, municipal financial consultants in Chicago. JOHN ANDERSON, tanham, Md., expects to attend the 40th class reunion in 1971 and requests prayers for his mother, who died in November at the age of 92. GENE VALLEE stopped at my office recently for a pleasant visit He reported that he saw JOE DUNNE not too long ago. Gene's father died in Chicago in February. The Alumni Office advises that PHIL PENDERGAST, Oeveland, Gbio, suffered a stroke several years ago and is confined to his home. I do not have his address, but if some of you have it, I am sure a note to Phil would be appreciated. 
Word of the death of RAYMOND S. DISCO arrived, but no details as to date or cause. EDDIE RYAN died Jan. 11 at Rochester, Minn. He had been bed-ridden for some time with cancer and went to Mayo's as a final hope. He is survived by his widow, Betty O'Hara Ryan SMC '31, a daughter, Betty Anne Lawler, and a son, RICHARD E. '59. Eddie will certaitily be remembered by many and will be missed at our next reunion. His cheerfulness and wit no doubt served to cover the pain he experienced for so long. Among those attending the funeral were BERT METZGER, CARL CRONIN, Dr. FRANCIS HETREED '30, PAUL OTOOLE and JOHN DORGAN. I am sure there were others, but the above were the oidy ones I happened to see. Please remember our deceased classmates and their relatives in your Masses and prayers. 
FRANK LEAHY was elected to the football Hall of Fame. More about that in another section of the ALUMNUS. It is not too eariy to start making plans for our 40th reunion in June, 1971. As 
F. X MURPHY says, we will soon be the first class column in the ALUMNUS, so before we get there let's have a big turnout in June, 1971. Don't forget our class reunion cocktail party following the Army-ND game Oct 10. Best wishes to all, and, please send news. 
James T. Doyle 
1567 Ridge Ave. Evanston, HI. 60201 
<32 LOIS OF NEWS TO REPORT News was good these past two months. Glad to leani that BERNARD T. HEITZ has won retirement after 26 years. He was assistant superintendent of U.S. Steel Cotp.'s South Works Alloy Bar Mill. A letter from LEN CONDON, Rockford, 111., states, "I don't think we did too bad after reading it over. It seems as though we are keeping most peo^e going from our graduating class. I'm sony to hear about the boys that passed on. I do appreciate the MARLEYs' Christmas cards. I get them every year, and they are beautiful. I have two sons and two grandsons. Both of my boys went to ND, as yon know: TIMOTHY J. and LEONARD 

W. I do hope that one of the two grand­sons mi^t be qualified mentally to get in, but I doubt it the way things are going now. This is just a note to let you know that I do read the articles. You can tell that to Fran and DICK OELERICH, who are personal friends of mine and every now and then we get together just to—^well, you might be sur­prised what we get together for." 
Then out of the blue a letter from JOE KENNY, 728 Waldo Blvd., Manitowoc, Wis. 54220. "This is a letter of courage to all classmates, especially to those who have been retired involuntarily as I was at the end of 1967 by 'merger.' When in the past I have found myself reading obituaries and thinking dark thoughts, I dispel them by getting myself to the nearest school. It worked in 1934 in the depression; it worked in 1942 in the war and it worked again in 1968. In September, 1968, I packed me off to Madison to study a year. To make a long story short, I am presently teaching business management, after 38 years in the business world, at St Norbert College, DePere, Wis., near Green Bay. "IKE" TERRY, distinguished farmer and legislator of Baraboo and Madison has two sons in my classes, Dennis and David. I do not have to favor them because they are substantial students and citizens of the campus—^like father, like sons. Regretfully, I am out of touch with ARTHUR CLINE, JIM MEEHAN, JACK SHEEHAN and BOB BRIGGS. I either see or hear from TED HALPIN, THAD XELOWSKI and BOB GORMAN occasionally but not often enough to satisfy." 
There was a great column in the Miami Herald last November sent along by 
I. I. PROBST about our own ART HIMBERT. Headlined "The Indispensable Man," the story by columnist Larry Thompson tells of his start in 1945 when he was introduced to Art and told "Here is the man to answer all your questions." To this day, says lliompson, Himbert still is the man to see to learn anything. 
EURON R. REINBOLT of Santa Barbara notified us that our great friend, TOM GATELY, died Jan. 8. We are also grieved to learn of the death of Paul Belden Sr., father of our PAUL BELDEN and WILLIAM BELDEN '36. Masses will be offered on the campus for the repose of their souls. 
A last-minute note from WILLIAM C. BROWN, Toledo: "Have only attended one class reunion (1937) but intend to be there in 1972. I will retire from federal government service next year. Remember me to all classmates of '31 and '32." ROBERT HURLEY has moved to 118 RUey, East Aurora, N.Y. 14052. WILLIAM LAUGHLIN to 257 Point aear Dr., Conroe, Tex. 77301, and BOB BURG­HART gives his address as 15 West Burton Place, Chicago, lU. 60610. 
One more came in. RAY GEIGER, secretary of the ND Alumni Assn. of Maine (he doesn't have enough to do) 
relates: "While I was in Los Angdes, 
I was able to contact good classmate ED 
MELCHIONE, who is now a real fine 
legal beagle in that area. One of his dients 
is TERRY DILLON. Ed tdls me that 
even though he had to go throu^ a 
couple of operations of a rather nasty kind, 
he is in good health and expects to 
live to be 112. I also had an opportunity 
to chat with GENE CALHOUN, iHio with 
his wife, Victoria, just arrived back 
from Europe a while ago. I find that 
RAY FOX is now in Palo Alto working 
with his son on a very fine beer 
franchise which probably gives him 
more time for golf anyway and beer 
drinking." 
That's all for now. Right? Write! 
Florence J. McCarthy 
6 River Rd. 
Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583 
'33 BILL, THE FUGITIVE 
Dottie and BILL KENNEY send greetings 
from Charleston, W. Va. They have four 
children, Cathy, Nancy, Maureen and 
Bill Jr. Bill is a fugitive from our dass, 
having entered old Brownson Hall with me 
in '29. Phyllis and JACK SOISSON 
tell me in a note that their daughter is 
residing in my neighborhood, Havertown. 
Thanks for your help. Jack, on the reunion. 
Louise and LARRY SEXTON wrote they were heading for Dallas and would meet us at Gate 8. They sent beautiful color photos of PETE CONNELLY, GEORGE ROHRS and JACK HOYT enjoying our October reunion. If Larry gets glossies made, he promises to send them to the ALUMNUS. Peggy and DON WISE report they returned safely to Joliet after being with all of us at the '33 reunion in New York. 
Emily and TOM BLISARD left Philadelphia, crossing the Delaware River to Merchantville, NJ. Now Tom must pay a 50-cent bridge toU to visit his old haunts—but it's worth it, eh, Tom? JACK KENNEY (no relation to West Virginia Bill) is teaching at St Joseph's College (Philadelphia) and practicing law in Media, Pa. SAM HYDE wired a Christmas greeting while passing throu^ Austin, Ind. Marjorie and RAY BRODERICK '35 sent a incture of their lovely family. Ray, now lieutenant governor, is a candidate for the Republican gubernatorial nomination in Pennsylvania. Good luck, Ray! 
Our class president Judge MAURICE 
W. LEE, will consult with JACK OSHAUGHNESSY and Larry Sexton as to the proposal to hold a '33 class reunion on the ND campus after the Purdue game. Sept 26. In addition to his other activities, Maurie has the honor of being the Grand Esteemed Loyal Knight for the B.P.O. Elks. When are Eva and you coming to visit our local Elks, Maurie? 
Now that he got ED ROXAS to write, KARL VOGELHEIM promises to get LUCIO MUNIAN's address. Karl deserted frigid upper Michigan to visit his son in Houston and the Cotton Bowl in Dallas. His daughter, who attends the College of the Holy Names, Oakland, Calif., was with them. 
JACK CUNNEA discovers evidence of moral decay at the University, as he didn't get an application for the Cotton Bowl but did get one for the fencing match 
widi BaU Stale and lUw Poly. Jack 
sent a photo from tbe BUndaader, ^ ^ 
vemsemeet at oat OtnaiMe, MELVIN 
FI,I.TS, who is « natme ddnmiHt and 
andior of Jboi, lUdmj, Kiai, SofOr Komn 
Ike Lion and Wild Goose, BroOier GOOM. 
Hie piioto depicted Md diatting ii^ ­
rnaUy with meaAas vi his attide-wiiling 
dass at the SUndander Sdwol of Aits. 
Shortly after senffing in the last copy to 
the ALUMNUS, I leoened die sad 
news of the death ttf our da^smatc, 
FRANCIS W. DONALTY, on Nov. 24, 
1969. A Mass, eipiessing condnlfncr, 
and in proper lemenibfaDC^ was said oo 
the canqiiB Dec. 21, 1969. Our sympathy 
is offered to Francis' family. He resided 
at 109 Baiter Race, Utica. N.Y. 13512. 
Rev. JIM DONNELLY has been land 
enoogii to lemenjher onr deceased 
da^CTiatet in his Masses. He also paid 
the Conleys a great honor liy flying 
from CoRieras Ccne, Tex, to attend the 
fiineial Afass for Irene's mother. Fr. Jim's 
phone number is (817) 547-3735. 
Kita and FHIL FAHERTY bromJit their 
friends, Mr. and Mrs. Williain C. Losdi, 
who attended our reunion with the 
Fahertys, to New Ymk on Feb. 19 
to see the ND-NYU game in the new 
Garden. I was there with TIM TOOUEt 
'30 and BILL CAMPBELL, the presi­
dent of the ND subway ahnmn. The 
Fahertys' son, Phil, also an ND grad, is 
getting back from Vietnam and will put 
some ginger in the law firm of Himt and 
Faherty, Lanibertvine, NJ. 
CHUCK HAFRON attended the ND-UCLA basketban game in Los Angeles but couldn't manage a victory. I saw that game on TV, Chock, and Wooden threw everything at the Irish but Hoagy Carmidiad and "StardnsU" 
I'm preparing this artide eariy, as my son, the Navy flier, is being married in Puerto Rico on Mardi 7. Althongh the bride b from Altoona, Pa., they decided to have the ceremony in the base dupd. The Conleys will be coming &om Connen­vOle, Chingo and Havertown to see Lt Marty property started in commlrial bliss. 
Charles A. COnley 
100 E. "nmboll Ave. Havertown, Pa. 19083 
•34
 NEWS ABOUT n t JIM Onr Very Rev. Monstgnor JAMES V. MOSCOW cdebrated the 25th jubilee of his ordination Fd>. IS, with an anmveisary Mass. The Mass was said in Stagg H ^ School, Palos Hills, HI. Fr. Jnn is assigned to a mission parish and does not have a dnirdi yet Monsignor can be reached at Sacred Heart Church, 8245 

W.
 111th St. Palos Hills. IIL 60465. 


Dr. JOHN DORSEY has been promoted to bri^idier general of Oe Aimy. Jack attended Georgetown Medical School after graduation fiom ND. Dr. Doisey. assistant attending in plastic smgeiy at the Hospital for Special Snrgery in New York, is also associated with St John's Queen's Hospital and St Joseph's. Jade's son. Corporal William Doisey, was killed in Vietnam in 1966 idnle serving with the Marines. CpL John Doisey and Pfc Robert Dorsey are now serving in Vietnam. FRANCIS is a 1969 ND giad. 
I do bdieve onr dassmates move more than avenge people in the United States. This month we have 14 changes to note. ROBERT L. CLARK can be reached at 
663 Rosewood, Kankakee, Ul. 60901; 
GEORGE W. COLE, 525 S. Qay, 
Nevada, Mo. 64772; CHARLES A. 
DI MATTEO, 1307 Meadowview Dr., 
Miamisburg, Ohio 45342; Maj. ROBERT 

H. HALPIN, 314 Humphrey SL, New Haven, Conn. 06511; THOMAS M. IGEL, SS9S Emerson Ave., Worthington, Ohio 64085; JOSEPH F. KELLY, 3770 Lake Dr. SE, Grand Rapids, Mich. 49506; JOHN W. KROEGER, 6770 Rollymeade Rd., Cincinnati, CMiio 45243; JOHN J. 
MCLAUGHLIN, 3282 Mendon Rd., Cumberland, R.L 02864; PAUL F. MCMANUS , 7411 D. Sieloff Dr., Hazel-wood, Mo. 63042; JOHN C. MALAN SR., 19^ Beech St, Hudson Falls, 

N.Y. 12839; RALPH E. ROGERS, 2656 Prestwick Ave., Concord, Calif. 94520; JOHN B. STEEL JR., 47 Bayside Ave., Portsmouth, R.L 02871; WILLIAM H. VEENEMAN JR., Box 14036, LouisviUe, Ky. 40214; MICHAEL F. WIEDL JR., 2217 Virginia Place NE, Atlanta, Ga. 30305. 
Sorry to report the death of Chaiies 

L. Huisking Sr. on Jan. 17. Mr. Huisking was the father of CHARLES L. JR. and WILLIAM W. DAVE FROEHLICH received a letter from Rev. DOWNEY, with a mission group in Taiwan, China. A visitor to the mission was talking about the crap games at ND in the 1930s. Fr. Downey asked the visitor if he knew Dave Froehlich, and he almost choked on the olive in his martini! Hie visitor did know Dave. I suspect the visitor was Rev. EDWARD L. O'MALLEY of Albany, 
N.Y. Dave, your reputation with the dice has now spread to China. 
The ND Alumni OfSce has notified me of a $1,000.00 donation from JAMES 
J. O'BRIEN. Jim lives in Pittsfield, Mass. His son, JIM JR., graduated from ND in 1965. 
While in the hospital for a checkup, the sad news came to my home about JIM FAGAN's death. It is so hard to believe because he was one of the delights of our reunion. I also had a lovely chat with Jim when in New York for the Army game. I want to thank RAY TROY for his call from New Jersey, and the newspaper clipping he sent. BOB McDONOUGH also sent a note and newspaper clipinng. Dave Froehlich also called to advise about Jim's passing. 

BERNIE HENNESSY tells about his son, DAVID '69, calling collect from Malacca in Malaysia on New Year's night David wanted to know how ND did in the Cotton Bowl. Bemie sent on a copy of the death notice of GERRY ANDRES. He is survived by his wife, Muriel K., and four sons. Bemie was out of town that week, and did not get to visit with the family. 
CLIFF SAUSVILLE-BARCH, South Orange, NX, is manager of buBding services, Sea-Land Services, Inc., P.O. Box 1050, Elizabeth, NJ. 07207. Oiff has three children and three grandchildren. Anyone wanting to see a fantastic operation should visit him in Elizabeth, NJ. They have 37 ships—^all "Contaneri­zation"—a world-wide operation. Cliff saw RAY TROY at the Glen Ridge Country Club, Bloomfield. 
Ed Moran Moran Supply Co. 2501 N. Central Ave. Chicago, HI. 60639 ^35 IHE -niME IS COMING As I write this column on March S, several days before the deadline, my calendar tells me it is only 14 wedcs before the big weekend, our 35th reunion on June 12, 13 and 14. Although definite con­firmations haven't been pouring in to South Bend, we are encouraged by our treasurer's latest report of classmates who have recently sent in a check to hdp our "kitty." Optimistic chairman DOC McCRALEY concludes that those who have responded recently. In addition to the ones who have done so over the past few years, will be on hand for another great reunion. If Doc is correct; the count is now 81. At our 30th reunion, 136 classmates were in attendance, and we would like to equal or, better still, exceed that record. 
Just to mention a few on our list viiom we expect to return once again: ANNAS, BERNARD, BERNBROCK, BOWDREN, BRAYMER, BRACKEN. BREEN, CAREY, CROWLEY, DEMERS, DEMETRIO, DUFFEY, FAIRHEAD, FLYNN, GRAVEL, HAMILTON, HENNEBERGER, HOLAHAN, JEN­NINGS, KEATING, KEEFE, KENNEDY, KILMURRY, KIRLEY, KREBSER, KURZWEG, La LONDE, LAWTON, Mac-DEVITT, MAFFEI, MARCHIN, MATA­VOSKY, McGUIRE, OTTE, OWEN, PORCORO, PURCELL, RAVARINO, SCHRODER, SHEILS, VEE, WACKER­MAN, WEIDNER, WELCH, WILLIAM­SEN and WURZER. 
Before this issue is published, you win have received a letter from Doctor McCraley outlining the plans conjured up by the committee for your comfort, enjoyment and relaxation for three days. We hope by now you have definitely decided to attend, and have indicated your intentions to Doc or someone else on the committee. If you have ever been on a committee planning an affair ^er e at least a fairly close count is necessary to do the job ri^t I am sure you will understand why we would so much appreciate hearing from you. If you plan to attend and haven't let your intentions be known by this time, won't you please do so? 
Congratulations from the class to Jim MacDevitt for being elected to the Alumni Board, the first one from the class of '35, and a worthy selection. 
We received word recently that Frank McGuire, who moved to Germany several years ago representing John Deere as vice-president and general manager of their European operations, is returning to the States and will reside in Moline, 111. Frank has been elected senior vice-president, and will be in charge of the farm equipment and consumer products division overseas. 
Via the Alumni Assn., I picked up some information regarding a few more *35ers. JOE BEACH is now associate director for alumni and development at Holy Cross School in New Orleans. Fred Wddner has been with Sears Roebuck in Chicago since graduation. He has a dau^ter at the U. of Dayton, and expects that a son will be at ND next year. Another son graduated from ND in '64, and a daughter graduated from Munddein College. Fred's wife died last summer. Frank Vee wrote that he is with the Defense De­partment in D.C., is a grandfather four times and intends to be back for the reunion. 
Since the last issue we have received 
word of the deaths of two more of 
our classmates. JOHN CARESIO sent me 
a note that JOHN FITZPATRICK died 
in Chicago Feb. 10, as the result of 
a heart attack. Through the Alumni 
Assn., news was received of the death of 
BEN BEYRER last November in 
Manchester, Conn. Masses have been 
offered by our class for both John and Ben. 
As a final word, remember the dates 
June 12, 13 and 14. See you on campus! 
W. F. Ryan 1620 E Washington South Bend, Ind. 46617 
'3t NEWS VIA ALUMNI FUND The alumni fiind has brought in some news from several '38ers. Dr. VINCE SHERROD, Odessa, Tex.'s finest, noted on the back of the oil well check he mailed that he will visit us when he brings his son, Mike, to ND as a freshman next fan. FRANCIS SMITH, the old La Portean, sent his first note ever from 9137 Garnish Dr., Downey, Calif., and wouldn't mind hearing from LEN SKOGLUND, CHARLIE DUKE, CHUCK SWEENEY, Rev. JOE RACE, JOHNNY MOIR, PAUL NOWAK and others of "the mob." Another Smith, DONALD 
L. SMITH, who hasn't been back to campus since 1940 or seen a classmate since W.W. II—a mighty long stretch— sent belated New Year's wishes to aU for "health, happiness, peace and prosperity, and, as the Spanish say, 'time to enjoy them.'" Don has iieen city traffic engineer for Colorado Springs for the past eight years, stiU has his "hair, teeth, wife, and fondness for martinis, fast autos and slow horses." He also has a vivid recoUection of going squirrel hunting with Fr. Joe Race, on Thanksgiving Day, 1936. With Joe that would be vivid! Probably just shook them out of the trees, eh? 
Another of our good Fathers made the news. The "Deacon," Rev. JACK ANTON, drove down from his St John the Apostle parish, ViUa Park, with Len Skoglund to join JOHN PLOUFF and his tour to the Cotton Bowl. "TEX" ED HAGGAR and wife, Patti, estabUshed themselves as all-time hosts, the Deacon reports, during the four great days. Tex helped with the night-before raUy, had a Haggar brunch at the Sheraton before the game and a '38 raUy at their home afterwards. BUNNY McCORMICK was there from Livermore, Calif., and JOHNNY KELLEY from Maine and almost everybody else between those two states, including ANDY PUPLIS, from Chicago, JOHN O'CONNOR, Indianapolis, BOB WHITECOTTON, New Ross, Ind., JOHNNY POORE and GEORGE MORRIS. The Cotton Bowl trip made up aU the games the Deacon had to miss last fan because of iUness. But Mayo's and prayers—^for which Fr. Jack wants to thank all—got him weU. 
JOHN WALSH was appointed creative director of Fred Wittner Co. advertising agency. John and wife and four children live in Westport, Conn. A sad letter from EDWARD "NED" FISHWICK told of the death in his sleep of DAVE (HOWARD DAVID) BILGER, Jan. 5, at his home, 26 Sea Park Dr., Saint Augustine, Fla. Dave is survived by his wife, Jean, an English girl he met while stationed in England, a son, Howard, a daughter, Stephanie and two sisters. 

Dave retired from the Air Force in 1965 as a colond and was' working with Neighboihood Youth Corps in Jacksonville, Fla. He was buried in Arlington National Cemetery very near President Kennedy. Dave and Ned were the first two boys from Saint Augustine to attend ND. Hiey and ED CRONIN and JOHN DONNELLY, I recall, were great friends on the campus. Ned, on bdialf of our class, sent blue and gold flowers to Dave's funeral, the only flowers that were on his grave. I shall ask Fr. Joe Race to say a Mass for Dave on behalf of the class. 
Ned, single, is with U.S. Information Agency and lives at Seminary Towers West, 4801 Kenmore Ave., Alexandria, Va. Ned visited Irdand and England and 23 cousins with his nephew last summer. He almost went back over Christmas at his doctor's suggestion to overcome hi{^ blood pressure which has troubled him, but is better now. Phone him at 755-4128 \rfien in D.C. 
My primary interest from now until election day in May will be to get nominated to the State Senate which I'm attempting after three terms in the Indiana House. In the meantime, you write. 
Bumie Bauer 1139 Western Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46625 
•S* MUCH BELATED, BUT A much belated happy and blessed new year to the men of '39 from your oft silent secretary. 
Long-lost AUGUST "AUGIE" BOSSU pens from Benedictine High School, Cleveland, Ohio: "I read with interest all news of ND and our class. Job respon­sibilities have so far curtailed any thoughts of active participation in reunions. This is my 15th year as football and basketball coach . . . 1969 brought championships in both sports, making it 12 in football and 11 in baseball in the past 15 years. Frank, our oldest, is a junior and on the football squad at ND. Steve, a junior here at Benedictine, and Frank both played on championship football teams for their Dad. Only wish I had more athletes who could qualify for ND." Congratulations and continued best wishes, Augie, from your fellow '39ers. You're a credit to our Alma Mater. 
Another of the coaching fraternity checked in as MAX BURNELL writes: "My wife, Kay, and I moved to East Moline, 
111. I am head football coach at United Township High School and teach physical education. My new address is 5620 C—34th Ave., Apt. 2C., MoUne, 111. 61265." 
Frequent contributor PAUL TULLY states: "ALUMNUS is one of my most entertaining readings even after 30 years. My thanks to you! Members of '39 lunched in Manhattan in eariy January. ED VON HOENE's son returned from Vietnam safely in spite of perilous flying missions. FRED HONERKAMP's son has also made a safe return from Vietnam after having been shot down and missing for some time. Fred's lumber business is surviving a second and perhaps a third generation. CHARLIE METKJER'S sons both graduated from ND. Chailie now travels to his home in the Florida Keys rather than back to the campus. A DICK ANTON daughter married last fall and two others are graduate nurses. His older son is to receive a mathematics doctorate this spring from Brown U. Another daughter entered Boston 
College this year. JIM McGOLDRICK pursues his legal endeavors in Maidiattaii and mysteriously maintains Us youthful appearance." 
From the grapevme: PETER J. FLUGE, general manager of box plant cqieratioiis in the forest products division of Owens-niinois, Inc., is vice-president of the forest products division, and most recent^ served as manager of sdes and marketiiig for the division. JCttIN GUTOWSKI will be on campus this coming June for son David's graduation. (Secretary's comment: A gathering of the clan mi^t be arranged if several more '39ers have similar plans for either ND or St Mary's. Let's hear!) 
Word was received recently at the Alumni Office of the deaUi of oar class­mate, CHARLES F. "BUD" O'MALLEY. Our sincere sympathy to THOMAS E. and members of the family and also to the family of ROBERT DIECKELMAN and the father of NORBERT ALEKSIS (Major) whose passing was reported in recent issues but not your column. 
Reunion past: You should all have received your copy of our 30th reunion colorful brochure compliments of Prexy JIM MOTSCALL. A special word of thanks to you, Jim, for this so very thoughtful expression of your regard for all of your classmates. If you have not received your copy, please drop me a note, with your correct address; the omission win be corrected. 
Joe Hannan 1804 Greenwood Dr. South Bend, Ind. 46614 
>40 4«, 3«, ?•—HKE? Repeat: 40-30-70! Remember June 12, 13 and 14! This, our 30th reunion, will be our greatest. JOHN MclNTYRE has indicated that there might be enough men of '40 returning from the Ariington area in the East to consider chartering a flight Others have indicated much interest in various sections of the country. 
I have a fair amount of news to report, so am unable to quote all the messages in their entirety. The ordination of Thomas Schmied, son of FRANCIS "TONY" SCHMIED, as a priest of the Capuchin-Franciscan order was reported by his mother. Remember that we have a class memorial Mass for all of our deceased classmates during the reunion, so all of the men of '40 with Tony are a part of our reunions. 
We have good reason for a great reunion with special representation in the Alumni Office. CEC JORDAN'S son, MICHAEL 
E. JORDAN '68, is assistant alumni secretary. Cec ?rill be at the reunion. Sons or daughters of AL MOONEY, PAUL FLOOD, DAVE HYDE, BUD LINNEHAN and JERRY DONOVAN, JIM CASPER's nephew, and a young friend of FARMS SAFFA have all contacted me on campus to let me know that these men will make the reunion. 
BOB TIERNAN's daughter from Des Moines, Iowa, is one of our cheerieaders from St Mary's. With all daughters in his family. Bob is very pleased to have repre­sentation on the gridiron and on the basketbaU floor. EDWARD J. NEALE is administrator and professor at California State in Los Angeles. He received his Ph.D. from the U. of California (Berkeley) in 1949. EDWARD J. HART has been promoted to division vice-president, com­mercial communications systems department, RCA commercial electronic systems organ-
RCA NJ. Aar : copgrvabecaL 
NodnMAcRwabei about Ike Cotkia BoMl • • It seeas as if Ocre «ai a' in Dalat. GEUIY SABGEKT. VOH GOXILAND. T(Mi FLAD, JIM DANEB. JACK BR(NMERGER aad WALT HaflN O are ttoaeatohaneaheady been identified as bcins pnaeaC 
Widi a l <rf you coold read JOE CALLAHAN'S letter in wUdi he did a anat deal of rriwiaiiriin He fired ia Badin Hdl and has been in Hneaiz, Ariz, for die part 10 years. He woiks.at a iwrhaairil deataer for G.E. in Ike infoimation devioes deittimut Aoe mestioas many naaKs and lecafc naay happy memories. Heisnaabie to make tte reunioa. bat his letter w9I be there for aB to oqiqr. He meatioiB hOZE MORRIS. ttOKV HUKIHAUSEN. JERRY FLYNN. JOE HALPIN. TOM HUGHES. JIM PALMER. MACK. GUDENKAUF. TCMI LE STRANGE. ROY HNEIXI,' ED REPETIO. CHUCK MtSDOti, JOHY CELLA and V K VERGARA. As he adds "I can stiD read and worid like to hear &om an of Oem," Joe's addie» is S331 
E. Vetde Lan^ Fhoeaix. Ariz. 85018. 
Please make ianaediale airaaaements k> attend the renaiaa aad if yoa have ne^ected to sign up in advance, send your dass remittance of $15.00 to me riiht aoar. Make the dwcfcs p^nMe to me and your committee win have sune foods for nK»e advance ptamaag. 
Remenriier 30-40-70! 
Robert G. Sanford 302 Rue Rabdais, > ^ 620 South Bend, Ind. 46615 

'42 vBRiNG nnr 
DONALD P. CASEY wrote a nice note advising that he is now Bring in Oakbicdc, IIL, and is currently a national accoonts executive in food T''**F"t for die American Can CO. Don has four sons and the ddest is WDridng for Westiotfaiase Electric in Dallas. Aaodwr son is on a fine arts scholarship at Rhode Mand School of Design, and two more are at home. Don visited ND on Dec. 4 and addressed two senior dasses in marketing, and says be hadabaU. While there, Don ran into J(» N MALONE, assistant dean of the MBA schocd. Don says it was great to be back there. 
People are stiU talking about that great Texas game. TOM CARROLL advises he attended the game and sat on the SO-yard line with aU the great Texans. Tom's dau^ter. Sister Susan Carroll, is now teaching at Loretto Academy here in Chicago. His brodier-iii^w, EDWARD ROBERTS (also an ND alumnus) has received his doctorate in mathematics fiom the U. of Houston, and their entire funity is very proud of Ed. 
THOMAS E. H(HtAK. his wife and five children are now living in Wheatoo, m., and Tom is manager of the Illinois state office for lawyers Htk Insurance Corp. in Chicago. 
JACKSON CHUNG has been advanced from duef engineer-drives to Erector of engineering for the Dodge Maiuifactiuiug Corp., Division of Rdianoe EkcticCo., South Bend. THOMAS J. SUELZER has assumed the post of manager of Soya Processing, Fort Wayne, ted. 
STEVE GRALIKER reports that he had a nice vacation in Nassau with JIM McNULTY and Mel in the cold part of January. Steve also talked to WALTER McCOURT, who is proud of the fact he has now slimmed down to 210 pounds. Walt is in Omaha as Nebraska distributor for Cooper lire Co. 
William M. Hickey 5500 W. 73rd SL Chicago, lU. 60638 

'44 A REAL POTPOUKSI This column wHl be a real potpourri—a little of this and a little of that It's the middle of everything—^not quite spring enough for the annual outdoor chores and not enough winter left to make winter sports enticing. 
There was a letter from OZZIE DOLAN, Dubuque's gift to ND. He lamented the sudden deaths of two ND men prominent in his area, THOMAS J. CODY and ROBERT EMMET MURPHY. Usually Ozzie has good news to report but, unfortunately, this time it was a sad letter because of the imtimely deaths of two of his close friends. 
A note came from BILL WALDRON from Dorado Beach, Puerto Rico, where he was trying to recuperate from a three-week bout with pneumonia. He felt he was making good progress but realizes it takes longer to get better than to become sick. 
BOB ROHDE, Sheboygan lawyer, was in Green Bay to present his niece, Nancy, at the annual Charity Ball. Even though the two of us are less then 70 miles apart, we see each other so seldom. It was good to have had the visit with him. 
WALTER ROMITO, Ravenna, Ohio, recently was elected to the board of directors of the First National Bank of Ravenna. Wally is president of Romito Donnelly Corp., manufacturers of furniture; vice-president of the Rand D. Seating Co. of Tupelo, Miss, and a partner in the Riddle-Romito Oil Co. in Spencer, W. Va. He and his wife have three children. 
LEO LARDIE still reminisces over the great 25th, almost a year ago, and is determined to make every one in the future as long as his health permits. That shoidd be at least 10 more, shouldn't it, Leo? 

DAN HECHT, Chevrolet dealer in Effingham, 111., and his wife are the parents of eight, four boys and four girls. He was one of the fortunate ones to attend the Cotton Bowl on New Year's Day. JACK KOESTER, Moberly, Mo., didn't have news about himself but wrote that his son, a '64 ND grad, recently received his Ph.D. from the California Institute of Technology in applied dynamics and physics, and currently is assistant professor of aerospace engineering at the U. of Tennessee Space Institute at Tullahoma, Tenn. 
FRANK STUMPF has been named an associate in the corporate finance department of Scott and Stiingfellow, Richmond, Va., investment bankers and brokers. JOHN A. SCHROETER has been promoted to division vice-president of Fieldcrest, makers of bed and bath fashions. He lives in Dallas and is in charge of the Southwest region. 
JAMES R. KELLY recenUy was named director of the Delaware River Port Authority's world trade division, head­quartered in Philadelphia. He resides with his wife and five of his six children in Winchester House, a hotel he owns in Longport, N. J. 
FRED EICHORN, Dallas, sent in detaib 
of what ND's finest did in extending 
Southern hospitality for those attending 
the Cotton Bowl. Six of the class of '44, 
SAM WING, FRANK CROWLEY, 
JACK SCHROETER, DAN FOLEY, CLEM 
CONSTANTINE and he, more than outdid 
themselves together with the otber Dallas 
ND alumni. There was a rally for 2,000 
at which green deiby hats with lepreduum 
decals were given out the ni^ t prior to 
the game; idayers were met at the airport 
and were hosted at a baibecue at thie 
McClendon Ranch; and hospitality suites 
were maintained at the Fairmont Hotd. 
Among some '44ers from out of town were 
Dr. PHIL CLARKE, Denver. EARL 
ENGLERT, Louisville and LEO DONATI 
from Saint Louis. 
A long letter was received from regional 
vice-president JOE GALL, Nashua, N. H. 
Recently he was at ND and saw his first 
basketball game in the new athletic |danL 
His son is a freshman at ND. He noticed 
an article in the South Bend Tribune, which 
stated that JOE DILLON had resigned 
his general manager position but it didn't 
state what his new venture is. Last fall after 
the Army game, Joe Gall saw a flock of 
'44ers at the after-game reception, among 
them JOHN MURPHY, FARRELL 
QUINLAN, Rev. JOE GALLAGHER, 
FRANK STUMPF, Joe DiUon, TOM 
ROLFS, FRANK BRADY and JACK 
WHITELY. On one of his recent New York 
jaunts, Joe had a telephone visit with ED 
DOWLING, chief purchaser for Pan 
American Airways. 
Joseph A. Neufeld 
P.O. Box 853 
Green Bay, Wis. 54305 
'45 THE GALA 25tli IS COMING 
I hope all of you have your plans made 
for our gala 25th class reunion, June 12, 13 
and 14. The Alumni Office, with our 
committee headed by HARRY WALTHERS 
and our class President BILL KLEIN, living 
in South Bend, are all working hard to 
make it the best ever. All we need now 
is YOU. 
As the result of my last colunm, I received 
a nice letter from Bro. "PAT' CAIN CSC, 
former rector of Brownson Hall. Those of 
you who lived in the "Hall of the Sheets" 
remember Brother. He is at St Edward's 
U., Austin, Tex., and is {banning to be at 
ND for the reunions. See you there. 
Brother. 
PAT MAZZA, the Reading, Pa., M.D., is planning on the reunion. June will be a busy month for the Mazzas, with a son graduating from Malvern Prep. Pat had a coronary a few years back but is going strong. 
JOHN VAUST, ZionsviUe, Ind., has recently been appointed consulting actuary for the state of Indiana. Their oldest boy is on a pre-med academic scholarship at Xavier IF. 
FeUow Southern Tier New Yorker, HANK FRAILEY, was elected a vice-president. Coming Glass Works, and appointed general manager-television products division, headquartered at Coming, N.Y. The Fraileys have three daughters at St Mary's. 
See you at the reunion. 
F. M. Linehan P.O. Box 5000 Binghamton, N.Y. 13902 
'4« A BRIEF BRIECING 
JOSEPH LATORRE took time out to notify his class that he has been elected vice-president. Midland Constraction Co., Inc. Joe and his wife, Helen, have a daughter, who is a freeman at Pennsylvania State, and a son attending State College High School. They now reside in State College, Pa. 
A brief note from Dr. ED DENEFE of Ottumwa, Iowa, informs me that his oldest daughter, Maty Beth, is a freshman at St Mary's College. 
That's it! 
Peter P. Richiski 6 Robin Place (Md Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
'49 WHAT TV MAGIC! 
Isn't it great to find the Irish continuing to command headlines and TV coverage? Rupp and Wooden, move over! Johnny Dee and his round-ball machine of "Awesome Austin" Carr, Jones, Meehan, etc., certainly have emphatically established ND as a basketball power. Just ask Marquette or Detroit or Ohio. What TV magic they saw (and happQy, we also!). 
Before launching into happy news of promotions, family additions, etc., let me first ask your prayers for these departed friends: JOSEPH P. ORSI JR., who died suddenly at his home in Taunton, Mass. This vras reported to me by JOHN C. SULLIVAN of Quincy, Mass., also a '49er. FRANK A. ZIMMER, who died of cancer on Oct 20, 1969. Frank had been director of art and stmctural design for the Packaging Corp. of America. He leaves his wife, Margaret Mary, four daughters and two sons, an living at home in Wadsworth, Ohio. PETER KERNAN brought this sad event to my attention. Then, Mrs. THOMAS ROUGEUX (Norma) wrote a very touching note to the Alumni OfBce in which she told of the passing of Tom on June 28, 1%9, after heart surgery, a bout with hepatitis and finally a stroke. Norma sent a check to the office requesting that the alumni magazine continue to be sent to their only son, 17-year-old Tom Jr. (Boy! That has to make you think a little!) 
Alumni Secretary JIM COONEY sent me a memo telling of the death of the mother of Rev. THOMAS McNALLY CSC and LAWRENCE McNALLY '54. The note from Jim mentioned that a special re­membrance for Mrs. McNally and all departed alumni and friends would be made at Mass on March 1. Let us also add our prayerful tribute, as the '49er list grows. 
A picture showed up in my mail last week. The very distinguished gent was 
N. WILLIAM ORMSBY, who was recenUy named corporate controller of Hamilton Cosco, Inc. Bill has been with Hamilton since 1954, holding a number of accounting and managerial positions, the latest being division controller of the office furniture division in Gallatin, Tenn. Bill, the men of Wal^ salute you! 
A short note came out of Colorado to tell me that Maj. WILLIAM H. CARNAHAN of the U.S. Air Force Academy was promoted to lieutenant colonel in September, 1969. Wait! There's more. In January, 1970, Bin was promoted to academic rank of associate professor in the department of law at the Air Force Academy. Now, perhaps we can come up with an acceptable solution to Vietnam and Laos. Bill, we salute you, too! 
Room for a couple of short bursts: ROBERT P. KANE has been made division 

head of the urethane foam and coatings department for DuPont in Wilmington, Del. Bob's card says, "kids—dght, from Kathleen 
(14) to Kevin (3); next visit—Purdue game, 1970, if youll save me tickets." 
GEORGE PFAFF has been promoted to vice-president and general manager of Huyck Corp., Albany, N.Y. After ND, he received his mastei^s in business admin­istration and has resided in Albany. Must have lunch occasionally with Sen. JOHN CAEMMEREK of Nassau County, N.Y., who is continuing to press for his "truth in credit reporting" bOl which he introduced in 1968. John has had hearings on the bill throu^out New York state and has gained widespread attention. 
As Dean Martin so often says, "Keep those cards and letters coming, fans." (Memo to N.Y.C.: Those Cardinals are coming, Met fans!) See you next issue. 
Leo L. Wesley 
ISS Driftwood Lane 
Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
'5* CLEAR YOUR CALENDAR 
By the time this letter reaches you, I hope 
you will have been able to clear your 
calendar so that you can attend our 20th 
reunion, June 12, 13 and 14. We are looking 
forward to all of you doing your best 
to arrange to be there. 
We had a fine get-together at my home with Kathy and RUSS SKALL, Norah and PAUL SCHAEFER and Marcia and LARRY COUTRE. Russ not only operates his famous Appleton Colonial Wunderbar Restaurant, but is now in the Bell Captain North Central, Inc., which puts handsome cabinet-type dispensers of beverages, etc., in hotel and motel areas. Paul Schaefer is doing well as an executive assistant in the Deltona Corp., with the Mackle Brothers, who are building Marco Island and other areas in Florida. Larry is our Miami FBI stalwart, and looks as young and healthy as ever. 
JOHN KELLY, vice-president of Mutual of New York, is reported to be projecting a fine image in his profession. The DON BUSECKs and their four boys are a handsome-looking fanuly with skis in hand, and plenty of snow around, in the Christmas greeting received. Rev. DON KUNKEL, my Ozark Mountain contact in Huntsville, Ark., reports he is doing well and almost had a conflict of interests last winter, before Arkansas lost the ri^t to meet ND in the Cotton Bowl. Dotty and JERRY RAMSBERCER report from Saint Peters­burg, Fla. Their Kerry is to graduate from the U. of Florida in June. Katie is a college freshman; Peter had a good season quarterbacking at Boca Ciega High School; Rebecca is a cheerleader at Tyrone Junior High School; and Thomas and Timothy are full of life. Jerry teaches at the Clearwater campus of the junior college, and as all of us, is looking forward to our 20th reunion in June. 
JOHN "RED" LUCAS comes through Miami on business often. Had a pleasant renewed contact from JIM QUIGLEY. My old friend and co-philosophy major, Rev. DAN CLARKE, pastor at St Patrick's Church, Cumming, Iowa, and also editor of the diocesan newspaper, is hopefully going to be able to make the reunion. Had a nice note from Sarah and RODNEY FORBES, College Park, Md., reporting on their Rosemary, Teresa, Cecilia, Carol and Jennifer, ranging from the fifth grade down. Sounds like a grand family. You may wish 


Congrats 
PHILIP J. LUCIER '42, president and director of the Continental TeleplKHie Coip., was elected chainnan of the board of trustees at Fontbonne College, Saint Louis, Mo. Lucier resides in University City, Mo. 
JOSEPH £. JACOB '43 has been named vice-president of manufacturing of the Everett Piano Co., South Haven, Mich. Prior to joining Everett as plant manager in 1969, Jacob was on the staff of the Torrington Manufacturing Co., Rochester, Ind. Everett is a subsidiary of the Hammond Corp. 
WILLL\M D. MANLY '47 has been 
appointed vice-president of Cabot 
Corp., and will continue to serve as 
general manager of the Stellite 
Division, which was purchased by 
Cabot on Jan. 1,1970, tmm Union 
Carbide Corp. Manly is a resident of 
Kokomo, Ind. 
C. CARROLL CARTER '49 has been appointed assistant administrator for public affairs of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration by Secretary of Transportation John A. Volpe. Carter is a former president of the Somerfeld Machine Co., a Pittsburgh manufacturer of steel mill replacement parts. 
DR. HAROLD R. IMBUS 'SO, former deputy director of medical services at the Kennedy Space Center, has been appointed director of Buriington Industries' medical services in Greensboro, N.C. In his new position, Imbus will administer the company's program of medical and occupational health services. 
JOHN J. HARFORD '51 has been appointed manager of the production department of Alexander and Alexander, Inc., a Pittsburgh insur­ance firm. He and his wife and their seven children reside in Pittsburgh. 
to try their midsummer family vacation 
retreat at the Carmelite Seminary, 
Hamilton, Mass. 
FRANK KELLEY has consented to be 
our 1970 local reunion chairman. 
RICHARD GAGNON is executive vice-
president and secretary of the Sollitt 
Construction Co., was elected a director of 
the National Bank and Trust Co., South 
Bend, is board chairman of Semi-conductor 
Industrial Leasing Corp., secretary of the 
Sollitt Foundation, Inc. and vice-president 
of the Fairabult (Minn.) Daily News. He is 
a director of the Wells Electronics, South 
Bend, and the Benicia Industries, Inc., 
Benicia, Calif., as well as former director of 
Wells Aluminum Corp., and president of 
the Industrial Foundation, Inc. RICHARD 
McGOLDRICK, vice-president, consumer 
foods. Bay State Milling Co., Boston, is 
also director of the Woodland Golf Qub 
and Northeast Federal Savings and Loan 
AssiL 
JOHN LONK has been appointed trust officer of the Continental Baidc, Chicago. Rev. KEVIN O'ROURKE is serving as president of the Aquinas Institute, Ecu­menical School of liieology, Dubuque, Iowa. ED MCCARTHY is vice-president of the Louisiana Land and Exploration Co., and manager of the company's real estate department The ANTHONY PANZICAs have six sons and two daughters, not too far behind the JOHN G. KELLYs, with 10 fine children. I do not know which classmate will win the prize for the largest fanuly. Rev. RICHARD J. DOWNS is assistant to the president of St. Mary's College. I had a nice note from Pat and JACK COURTNEY, reporting on their Katie, Colleen, Susan, Anne, John and BUI, with some news about Nancy and BILL EGGERS, Pat and HUGH MULLIGAN (Hinsdale), DoUy and BUD ROHLING (Omaha), Barb and JOHN NEIS (WaUed Lake, Mich.), Maiy and JACK DONELLY (Dayton), JIM HOLWAY, (Washington, D.C.), Fran and JIM NOONAN (Saint Louis) and Shirley and BILL KENNEDY (Oak Park). Speaking of Saint Louis, I have received permission from Dean Lawless of the ND Law School to have an official luncheon in Saint Louis next August at the American Bar Assn. meeting, in case any of you are in the vicinity at the time. 
John W. Thornton 
4400 Monserrate St 
Coral Gables, Fla. 33146 
'52 GOOD NEWS THIS TIME 
Good news is coming in from two of the 
most productive men in the class of '52. 
WILLIAM J. VANDEVEN has joined the 
Bank Administration Institute as a 
principal research associate. He will work 
in the automation section of the research 
division. Married, he resides with his wife 
and nine children in Mount Prospect, 111. 
CHARLES M. LINSENMEYER M.D. is the chief and only orthopedic surgeon at St Joseph's Hosirital in St Charles, Mo. Chuck just celebrated his sixth wedding anniveisaiy by welcoming his fifth child. To say both of these guys are a little appre­hensive about the future is really putting it mild. 
PETER J. GARVEY, Omaha, Neb., writes that he received his M.B.A. degree from Creighton U. in January. He dropped in for the Air Force-ND football game. Don't let those student antics rattle you, Pete, they often get carried away. 
Back to the production line. THOMAS 
J. DESSER is working for Genenl Motois Corp. as a supervisor in cost analysis at the Fisher Body Plant He has increased the population of Flushing, Midi., by 13, six boys and seven girls, and that takes a lot of analyzing. 
RICHARD BORZILLERI writes in firom 
Setaweet, N.Y., that he is under considera­
tion for a Sloan Fellows Program at the 
Massachusetts Institute of Tedmology. 
It would be a great feather for Dick to 
travel to New England and get into that 
great academic atmosphere. 
LEO M. STEPANIAN is living in Butler, 
Pa., and is a member of the lawfirm of 
Brydon, Stepanian, O'Brien and COok. 
After marrying Patricia Lancaster of South 
Bend, he has been pursuing the law route. 
Leo has three children, ages 5, II and 12. 
He sees quite a few of the ND gtads in 
the Pittsburg area. Check with GEORGE 
BROWN for a fast trip to ND this fall, 
Leo. 
From Chattanooga, Tenn., PATRICK 
J. CROWE JR. tells us he is now executive vice-president, of the Sewanee Supply Co. For 13 years, he has been workii« in the retail lumber, millworic and ready mixed concrete business. Ri^t after graduation, Pat spent four years in the Marines as a dive bomber pilot and later as a fli^t instructor. Pat married the girl he went with all through ND, Jeannine. 
JUD CASSIDY has moved to the land of mOk and honey. Edie, Jud and the four children are now in Sacramento, Calif., where Jud is the general sales manager of TV station KXTV. They left behind a beautiful home in Wnmette, IIL, which he is willing to sacrifice to any old friend who has the ready cash. A very small commission will be involved in the sale— and, of course, contributed to Challenge II. 
F. G. SHINSKY has been named controls systems consultant for the Foxboro Co. His book. Process Control System, is being translated into Italian, Rumanian and Japanese. 
JOHN ENGELS, author of The Homer Mitchell Place, (poems) and A Guide To William Carlos Williams, is now editing Studies in Paterson. He is associate professor of English at St Midiad's CMIege, Vermont 
WaUam B. King 613 E. Donmoyer Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46614 
'53 WELCOME BACK, 'S3 « By virtue of geographic proximity and offensive persistence, I have been assigned the task of writing the columa For all the editors of this magazine and our class know, BUD STUHLDREHER never got home from the reunion in June of 1968; he hasn't been heard from since. ED MCCARTHY promised to help with information, as did JERRY CCONNER, Chicago, who visits with us in South Bend from time to time, in engineering his housing project The Alumni Office also indicated a willingness to send out a more extensive biannual report on our class due to the severe length Umitatioiis on this column. JIM COONEY, alumni secretary, also agreed to publish m current class directory if the neol and interest were evidenced. Drop me a note and let us know your wish on the dass directoiy. 
A Mass from the fund collected at the ISth reunion for the iqiose of die soul of HUGH SWEENEY was recently said. His death vras noticed in the January-February issue of the ALUMNUS. 
No details available. TOM "SEED" McKEON has returned to South Bend to sell insurance with his brother-in-law, ED MCCARTHY. Tom is a good friend of assistant basketball coach GENE SULLIVAN, iriio should be able to help with information about classmates during the course of his team and recruiting traveK BILL WUETCHER is a dentist in Louisville, enjoying the good life; GEORGE FARRELL is now back running the Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh, after an extended overseas tour with that organiza­tion; BILL MAUS and DON DORINI both reside in Fort Lauderdale and bless us with occasional visits to the ball games; the father of GEORGE McCOURT recently died in Grand Rapids. George is living and working in Detroit 1 see ROGER NOLAN, lawyer-engineer for Bendix's South Bend division, about once a month. He, too, is going to help with the information on our class. I literally ran into CHARLIE RITTEN on the street in Chicago, and he is enjoying his seat on the grain exchange. 
DICK WAGNER and JOE BUCKHEIT came in for the MSU game with their spouses. Dick is a lawyer in Buffalo, and Joe just left Buffalo with a transfer as tax manager to the Indianapolis Price, Waterhouse office. They report JACK ENDERS is still hawking insurance and RALPH ARGEN is still a grumpy doctor in Buffalo. You all know that GEORGE KELLY is defensive line coach and that Rev. ERNEST BARTELL is now chairman of the economics department at ND, with the title, too. JOHN W. HOUCK, who is teaching in the commerce school, will also keep informed on bis friends Uke DAVID SCHEIBER and JACK HOWLEY who call him when in South Bend. GEORGE SCHILLING is die proprietor of a family photo and printing business in South Bend and we get together fairiy frequently. BRIAN DUFF is running for the Illinois House of Representatives from the North Chicago area and AL HANEY is campaign manager. Give us a report on the results, men. 
Talked with BILL FRENCH, Phoenix attorney, about nine months ago and I see BOB BENSON, Grand Rapids attorney, about once a year. All was well with both. Rev. GENE GORSKI CSC is still in Paris working on his 28th degree and may return home to the campus in time to retire from the active priesthood. BILL KEANE, Fort Wayne ex, is teaching accounting and will soon be the recipient of a doctorate in economics to accompany his C J.A. entitlement 

You can see that this column is based almost exclusively upon limited hearsay information and what few friends I have left Send the information, and don't get discouraged if it isn't used immediately because the deadlines and word limits on the column are both difficult The material will be saved and put in the more expansive periodic supplements during the course of the year. Let me hear from you on the class directory. I took this job on the promise that something should be better than nothing and hope you agree. 
John T. MulvihiU 645 First Bank BMg. South Bend, Ind. 46601 '55 COME SEE THE AGED ONES Seminary. 
Before you forget it, marie down June 12-14 If you want to fed old, gang, 
on your calendar. Those are the dates you CLARENCE HODGES is a grandfather! 
win be on campus to see how all the other While you pick yourself up off the floor, 
guys have aged n^ e you have breezed I will admit that Clarence is a few yean 
through in such perfect shape. Get the older than most members of the dass, bat! 
vacation slotted and the other 'SSets in He comi^eted his master's at ND and 
the area tuned in for Reunion TO. received an educational specialist degree 
Letter of the cycle goes to JOHN from M.S.U. (boo!) and is now compkting CONNAUGHTON, who is practicing law his fourth year as piindpal of the Morton in Wapakoneta (that's tight!), CHiio. After School in the Benton Harbor, Mich., leaving the Marines, John received his law system. Clarence has five children aiid his degree from Michi^. Last April, John son-in-law is the Doii Hi^ismith iriio carried married a most beautiful gal, the former the mail for M.S.U. against the Irish. Joamie Puka (a picture proved his point). JIM EHRET has been promoted to Navy He is leaving the "joys and freedoms of commander and has earned the sixth and bachelor existence" to ED KELLY, who is seventh flight awards to his Air Medal for practicing in Lafayette, Ind., after getting "meritorious achievement in aerial flii^t" his law degree at Wisconsin. JOHN in combat in Southeast Asia. Air Force MORRISSEY was an usher at John's Maj. BILL STAHL has been decorated wedding. He's an engineer with Humble with the U.S. Joint Service Commendation Oil in Cincinnati and has four duldren. Medal at Osan AB, Korea. John also hears quite regulariy from BOB BOB MALLON of Tacoma has been RUSSELL, who is with Bache and Co. in named Time magazine quality dealer award Chicago. Bob has two little giils. Rev. winner for 1970. After graduation with a JIM SCHERER stopped by the Con-B.S.C. degree in marketing, he returned to naughton residence on his way back from the dealership as vice-president He has Pakistan to Washington, where he will be two children. Speaking of Time, I hope you doing graduate work at Johns Hopkins while caught RAY KENNEDYS tongue-iixheek living at the Holy Cross Foreign Mission story on the California health spa. FRANK 

Congrats 
ROBERT G.FINNEY'53 C. KEVIN BURKE '59 of Franklin Lanes, N.J., has joined the Chicago has been appointed a vice-Corp., an investment firm, president of Western as a vice-president. Burke, Union, in charge of the who resides in Chicago company's planning and with his wife and son, engineering operations at was formerly associated the Mahwah, NJ., with Eastman Dillon, technology center. Union Securities Co. 
PHILIP S. ALLEN '60, 
ODILIO M. DIAZ '54 
manager of over-the­
was recently appointed 
coimter trading for the 
president of the Aviation 
Midwest division of 
Associates of Puerto Rico, 
Walston and Co., Inc., 
Inc., and is responsible for 
has been elected a vice-
the administration of all 
president of the nationwide 
phases of the company's 
investing firm. Allen, his 
operations. Diaz resides in 
wife and their five children 
San Juan, Puerto Rico. 
reside in Chicago. 
JOHN R. GRINDEL '54 JOHN L McKENNA '60 has been named vice-has been appmnted president of construction director of persoimel for and engineering for the the New York State Simone C^orp., a Detroit-Department of Mental based company involved Hygiene, Albany, nationally in the financing, McKenna has been designing, engineering and afiiliated with the state of building of commercial New York since 1960, and industrial real estate. and joined the department Grindel and his wife have of mental hygiene in moved to Detroit. 1967. 
MAIER is cot to ghre Kay a little ioniprtMMM, kavins jniiwid HewswttlCt 
BOB PHnXIP (2411 Webb Ave, New York) now is anociatcd widi the Knfitt Manaaemeat Co. Qoiie a dianae from chemical enginirring! JOE DALEY has been dected a partner in Ae MaiAattaa law firm of Modie; Kose, GnAiie and Alexander. 
iOBH LOCHIEFELD wrote to straighten me out on his wtereabonts. Seems I wrote that he lived in Nantucket He has a stndw and a smaD artgdery there, but Oe sdioal year finds him in Pcdcskill. N.Y. (72 Ofcaoo Rd.) as an anodate pnrfesior of art at Maiymoont CoOege in Tartytown. John passed aloiig some other news. DICK SCHERPEREEL is diainnan «rf the art department at Ae 
U. <rf Texas at KingsviBe. He has two duldren. KUSS RUSSO has his own law office in Toms River, NJ. DICK CON­NELLY, who is pnHic idatioiis diredor for ABC, lives in Plainfidd. NJ. PETE WALSH, of <aee Chib fame, is a partner in a law firm In Al>any. Pete, vriio has two girls and a boy, lives in Debnar, N.Y. GORDON GOETEMANN is a professor of art at Chicaao's Mimddein College. 
BOB McGRATH lives in San Francisco and is enjoying life as "a rich millionaire playboy businessman." Those are John's quotes. Bob! 
Ran into a couple of out-of-towners at the organization '55 meeting held during the housewares show. TOM ARMSTRONG is supervisor of refrigerated appliance products for Owens Coming Fiberglas in Toledo. TOM GALLAGHER is a New York (230 Fifth Ave.) manufacturer's representative WALT KACZMAREK is Midwest sales manager for Stouffer Foods. He menu'oned that ED COOK, who toiled for the Atlanta Falcons until last season, is back in Philadelphia. 
DON LANSPA has been appointed metropolitan director of the National Alliance of Businessmen in Kansas City, Mo. Don is on leave from Western Electric. JIM OWENS (2315 Virginia, Springfield, Mo.) checked in with a new addition, Michael Joseph. LOU MONTEEL (3517 Phelps Rd., Independence, Mo.) continues to remain single and expects to lead the singing at the reunion. 
While on the subject of reunions and their aftermath, let's talk about doctors. BILL WAHL, who reached the rank of lieutenant colonel in the Army, has resigned and is practicing internal medicine. Bill has three children and lives at 9504 
N.E. 30th SL, BeUevue, Wash. BILL TUNELL was slated for a Feb. 1 discharge and ready to join the faculty of the Children's Hospital of the District of Columbia. JOHN HACKETT is practicing in the Chicago area and living at 348 S. Park Rd., LaGrange, III. 
While marking your calendar for the reunion, block out the Purdue weekend for the spirit-fest at the Morris Inn. 
Paul Fullmer 1922 Larkdale Dr. Glenview, lU. 60025 
'55L REMEMBER REUNION Let me remind you that our 15th reunion is coming up in June of this year. If you have not already made plans to attend, please set aside the first week in June for this important event. The ALUMNUS will announce the dates of this year's reunion. Since you may not be on a reunion mmling list, 1 urge you to write directly to the University and request that space be set aside for your individual needs. DICK MILLER has agreed to bring his films of the 19SS graduation exercises. These films were shown three or four years ago at KENT ROWE's home in South Bend and were quite amusing. Some of us will be surprised at the changes since that date long ago in 1955. Again I urge you to attend this year's reunion. 
After graduating in 1955, JOE STRAUB passed the New York Bar and worked as a claim adjuster with U.S. Fidelity and Guaranty. In 1958 he moved to Algona, Iowa, and became an associate in the firm of Linnan and Lynch, in which he became a full partner in 1960. He was elected county attorney in 1968 and opened up his own o£Sce in early 1969, where he maintains a private practice in addition to his duties as Kossuth County attorney. Active in politics, Joe has served as Democratic county chairman for the past five years and as a delegate to several Democratic state conventions. He was finance chairman for the unsuccessful Democratic candidate for governor of Iowa in 1968. Married in 
1951, Joe and his wife, Maiy, are now the 
proud parents of II cfaildfen. Wow, this 
must be a record for our dtss! In recent 
years, Joe has become active in ptrish u d 
diocesan affairs, serving as a member of lis 
parish school board, and testifying on several 
occasions on matters coimected with sdiool 
bus legislation. For two years he served as 
chairman of the county advisory board of 
the Office of Economic Opportunity. A 
recent convert to the cursUlo moveinent, 
Joe has served as diocesan lay director to 
the diocese for the past several years. Of 
interest to Oevelanders, he eqiects to be 
in that dty in July of this year at the 
national convention of the cursiUo move­
ment. Be sure to look me up, Joe, when 
you arrive. 
From Beckley, W. Va., CONNIE 
HIGGINS informs me that he has been 
in practice in that city engaged in federal 
and state taxation matters. He formed a 
partnership in 1958 with JOHN H. 
GORMAN, a law graduate of 1954. His 
principal dealings are with the coal mining 
business and tax evasion cases. Coimie 
points out that many individuals in West 
Virginia have their own peculiar methods 
of accounting for federal tax purposes, many 
of which are not approved by IRS, thus 
leading to some interesting tax cases. 
Married in September, 1957, to Mildred 
Frances Svehlak of Derby, Cbim., he is 
now the proud father of six boys and three 
girls. For the past four years Connie has 
been the West Virginia delegate to the 
Notre Dasne Law Assn. 
DICK SHIPMAN was admitted to the Bars of both Illinois and Indiana after graduation in 1955. In August of tfiat year, he joined the legal staff of the U. S. General Accounting Office in Washington, D.C., with which be is still associated, specializing in commerce law. In this fidd he represents the interests of the United States as a consumer of public .transporta­tion. Dick is also a member of the Bar of the U. S. Supreme Court and of the Interstate Commerce Commission. In 1964, he married the former Aviil Elizabeth Quiggin of the Isle of Man, Great Britain, and is now the father of a three-year-old son. In November, 1%5, he purchased a two-unit 100-year-old house on Capitol Hill at 5th and East Capital Streets, N.E., in Washington, D.C., situated three blocks from the Supreme Court. Not content unth a historical house, Dick is now in the maiicet for a small apartment building and a 100-acre farm in Maiyland. As you may remember, Dick was a fenang buS during his law school years and has continued in the sport since graduation. He turned professional last year and presently teaches fencing in a Washington, D.C., school of theatrical arts and also does coaching for local theatrical productions. In previous years, Dick taught karate and tae qwon do, in which he earned a colored bdt I guess in Washington things are so bad that to get around you must be both a karate and fendng expert. Active in parish matters, Dick is president of the parish SL Vincent de Paul Sodety, and a daily and Sunday lecturer at his parish church. 
John P. Coyne 
810 National City Bank Bidg. aevdand, Ohio 44114 
'57 9t HOURS OF CELEHUHON 
The highlight of the year has to be the Cotton Bowl Game and the festivities that surrounded it. The dass of '57 was wdl 
represented in Dallas. Among those I personally had a chance to visit and bend an dbow with were DOUG McKAY, JOE NEUHOFF, BILL WATSON, JIM MORSE, BOB CALABRESE, PAT SHEERIN and my roommate for the stay, BOB SALVINO. I am sorry not to have met GEORGE STRAKE and MOORE McDONOUGH, who also were reported to have made the game. Besides having seen a wonderful game, we all were treated royally by our Dallas hosts and, of course, all of us had to make a pilgrimage to Neiman-Marcus for purposes of buying something for our wives, keeping them on the good side. I don't believe you could have walked half a block in the area of the hotels without running into somebody in your dass or a friend from another class in our era. As I told my friends, it was the longest New Year's I have ever spent, which came out to be about 96 hours of celebration. 
Big congratulations to class President JOHN McMEEL and wife, Susan, on their June addition of dau^ter, Maureen Anne. Also, Susan advises that John is board chairman and president of Universal Press Syndicate, New York. Great going, John. 
TOM "TIGER" MULCAHY led a contingent of the Milwaukee Brewmeisters to New Oiieans for the Tulane game and saved LARRY BEDFORD from the Bourbon Street crowd. He later stumbled into TOM "GUNNER" GUNNING in from Atlanta. Tiger is now general sales manager for the Milwaukee Co., an invest­ment firm. 
Did you know department: That MIKE HAYES is the father of three sons? Mike, his wife, Phylis, and family live in Middle­town, NJ., and he's the national sales manager with Personal Products Corp. JOE MOCARSKI as of Jan. 1, 1970, is new products manager for Gillette Safety Razor Co., in Boston. HARRY McKEE is district manager for Andrew Corp., manufacturer of transmission lines and antennas. Harry lives in Altaloma, Calif., with wife Betty and three children. 

One evening some weeks back, I was pleasantly surprised by a phone call from my old blocking partner, JOE BIHN, a poultry and egg king out of Oakland, Calif. Joe's business is thriving and is international in scope—^make sure you buy only West Pacific Poultry Corp. eggs. Joe promised me a martini for that plug. Joe daims that DEAN STUDER and his lovely wife, Connie, out of the wild west of Montana, are the proud parents of nine little Studers. I questioned Joe thoroughly on this point and he claims it's the gospel truth. I always knew Dean to be quick but not that quick. Is there any rebuttal to this information? 
BOB SCANNELL is now dean of the college of health, jdiysical education and recreation at Penn State U. Good going. Bob. I could use a course in health, right about now. I had a great lunch with FRANK HENNESSEY, CY FRIEDHEIM, BOB ECKLAND and PAT SHEERIN at RAY CAPITANINI's Italian ViUage in Chicago. The Chicago crowd is making plans to make the Missouri game in Saint Louis this year and we hope we can interest many of our dass to hit Saint Louis for an unoffidal reunion. 
George W. Groble 
111 W. Washington St Chicago, m. 60602 '51 AN ABBREVIATED RETORT We have an abundance of news for this issue and it win, therefore, be stated in a rather abbreviated manner. 
JERRY REEDY is now editor of Odyssey 
Magazine, with offices at 20 N. Wacker, 
Chicago. Previously, Jerry was special 
assignments editor for Belter Homes and 
Gardens. leny's wife is the sister of 
classmate PAT RODGERS, who is now 
vice-president of a real estate management 
firm in Des Moines. RONALD H. 
BLAKE, captain USAF, recently received 
his M.S. in computer science from SMU 
and is now in Vietnam with the 37th 
combat support group at Phu Cat. 
MICHAEL N. GLEASON and family 
(including fifth son, Theodore) are living 
at 200 Eighth SL, Jonesville, La., until 
December while Mike is acting project 
en^eer, C. H. Leavell and Co. on the 
Jonesville lock and dam. PHIL MAERSCH, 
wife, Patty, and son Karl, are living at 
632 Greentree Rd., Kohler, Wis. Mike 
is head of the mathematics department 
at Kohler High School. 
Congratulations to JIM "HOOT* 
WALSH and his wife, Gwen, on the birth 
of their daughter, Mary Bridget, last Oct. 
28. The Walshes are at 712 Bittersweet Place, Chicago. Congratulations also to GARY COOPER, who was recently appointed to the municipal auditorium advisory board in Mobile, Ala. Gary, who was the first Negro to lead a Marine infantry company in Vietnam combat, is vice-president and director of agencies for the Christian Benevolent Life Insurance Co. in Mobile. While in the service, Gary received the Bronze Star with Combat V for valor, Punde Heart, Presidential Unit Citation and held the rank of major when he returned to civilian life. 
JOHN KEHOE has been with EU Lilly and Co. for three years and is now living at 18 Lynnwood Dr., R.R. 9, Lafayette, Ind. John is now a manager with Lilly, having recently been promoted. GEORGE MILLER is an investment broker with Eastman Dillon and resides at 2333 
S. Evanston, Tulsa. George and wife, Kathy, have three sons and a daughter and have been in Tulsa since 1963 after moving from Mobile, Ala. George's brother, RAY MILLER, is vice-president of sales for Fleming BiUlding Co. Ray has one son and two daughters. CHARLIE SLOAN is also in Tulsa in the jewelry business. Also with Eastman Dillon is DON BAIER (manager of mutual fund sales and a partner in the firm). 
DICK LYNCH is vice-president of Trans-National Communications with Whitey Ford and Pat Summerall. Belated congratulations to JOHN HIRSCHFELD on the birth of his sixth child and third daughter, Catherine Porteous, last August. THOMAS D. WURZER is a partner in a recently formed partnership of Jenkins, Wurzer, Starks, Architects and Planners, 1545 East Ave., Rochester, N.Y. Tom was previously manager of architecture at Xerox Corp. 
THOMAS P. MEIRINK M.D. was guest speaker at the second western hemisi^ere congress of the International College of Surgeons in Montreal last fall. Dr. Meitink was associated with Drs. Fritscb, Hurd and Meirink, 8601 W. Main St, Belleville, III., and is an instructor at St Louis U. School of Medicine. 
BOB BERTA has for the past six years operated the AAMCO Service Center in 
South Bend and recently opened another 
center in Mishawaka. He has added a line 
of classic cars to his organization, sudi 
as a 1914 Stutz Bearcat, a Model A Ford 
and a 1970 Cord. RONALD FARROW 
placed second in an Indiana state fencing 
meet last fall and is currently vice-
chairman for the ALFA in Indiana. Ronald 
has five daughters. JOSEPH P. 
EMMITZ M.D. is now a partner in the 
new Dickinson Medical Clinic, Dickinson, 
Tex., practicing internal medicine. 
ALLAN FRAUGHT received the degree 
of juris doctor from Sufiblk U., Boston. 
Mass., June 15. GtTY E. WEISMANTEL 
is western regioiud editor of Chemical 
Engineering, based in Los Angeles. 
MARTIN J. ALLEN JR. is vice-
president of marketing, ^ d Kent Bank 
and Trust Co., Grand Rapids, Mich., 
and is responsible for t ^ bank's pubfic 
relations programs. The bank won an 
award for its continuing efforts in estab­
lishing constructive communications 
between black and white segments of the 
metropolitan area following racial 
disturbances in 1967. 
Arthur L. Roule Jr. 
1607 W. Fifth St 
LaPorte, Ind. 46350 
'59 '59ns' AFFAIRS 
JOHN P. BURDICK is in sales with 
International Paper Co., Chicago. Allison 
Lee is the name of the daughter bom 
(Nov. 12, 1969) to Carol and GREG 
DEVERS. All three can be found at 143­
39 84 Dr., Briarwood, N.Y. 11435. BOB 
HASSENGER of the ND faculty "ran 
into" MARK SHIELDS at O'Hare in 
early December and BILL McCULLOUGH 
at the same airport later in the month. 
(Bill is still in Monroe, La., managing a 
plant for International Paper, after being 
with them in New York City and Los 
Angeles. After the Navy, Bill took his 
M.B.A. at Harvard.) Bob married Nancy Ortloff on Dec. 27 in Brownsville, Tex., and the Hassengers spent part of their honey­moon in Dallas, rooting for the Irish in the Cotton Bowl Classic. Also in Dallas were the CARL EDMUNDSONs (whom I had seen earlier in San Jose, Calif., where Carl has an insurance agency), DON HANI­GAN, the DICK TRANTs (still prospering in Boston), the JIM COONEYs (from the campus, and joined by many of their Albuquerque relatives) and the DAVE KELSEYs (the successful banister from Albuquerque). Dallas classmates were re­sponsible for the very successful ND hospitality room at the Fairmont Hotel and the New Year's Eve party at the Municipal Auditorium. Special thanks go to the JIM JUSTs, the JAY JONESes, the CHICK MARTINS and the Dallas bachelor who chaired the New Year's Eve blast, ROBERT S. WILLIAMS. 
THOMAS E. KRISTOPEIT has formed his own development company, THK Associates, providing services in city and regional planning. JIM PIOWATY has finished the requirements for his Fh.D. in lAysics, and is currently an assistant professor at DePaul (Chicago). TOM PLOFCHAN is the director of admissions at Marygrove College, Detroit Tom has an M.A. from the U. of Detroit and is a PhJ>. candidate at Wayne State. Tom and Paula have six childreiL JERKY TRAUTSCHOLD is manager of MobO OQ Caribe, Inc., and the father of two sons. MARTIN W. McGINN has been named maiketinc coordinatot for aftkuhuial chemicals of Adas Chemical Industries, Inc. He was formeily with D.F. Qdlier and Son, MUwaokee, after serving two yean in the Army Medical Corps. JAY CALDWELL was recently honored for outstamfing salesmanship by JbfaoKm and Johnson Baby and Ploprietaiy Division. Jay is an account manager in Waslmigtoii, 
D.C. GERALD ANDERSON, program manager at IBM in Des Plaines, QL, was cited for his outstan£ng contribution toward an advanced computer ptogram by IBM. Geny and Marilyn and their two children live in Glen EDyn, DL 
Jndy and BO BROEMMEL are the parents of a girl, Baitara Renee, bom on July 16, 1969. Iliey have two sons. Brad 
(6) and Jeffrey (3). JAMES R. BIELEFELD practiced law in Crown Pirint, Ind., for six and one-half years and last October opened his own firm in Loogootee, Ind. Jim and Marilyn have four sons: James Jr. (5), Ciegoiy (4), Thomas (3) and David (Nov. 14. 1969). 
The condofences of the dass are extended to BRUCE MacINTYRE (2512 Irving Place, BiHings, Mont) ariose father died last September. Nancy and STEVE DORNBACH have four children: Monica (8). Midide (6). Mdissa (4) and Stephen (2). Steve has been in the fidd of corrections ance giad sdiool here cm campus. He is now located in St Pad. Miim.. and is a supervisor with the Ramsey Conn^ Probation Department, juvenile divison. Steve has muntuned frequent contact with his eld roonmute, BILL CASEY. Bin, still leading and coadiing at Notre Dame IS ^ Sdiool, Niles, VL, missed the remnon because of a trip to Europe. 
DICK SELCER is the new head football coach at Xavier U., Cindimati. Dick has been at Brown as an asastant coach. Joining Dick will be DON COSTA. Don win take over the backfidd coaching position at Xsnen he has been head coadi at EUwood Oty (Pa.) WOt Sduol for the last few years. Coming to the sUte of Ohio is MARK SHIELDS, former director of campaigns for the Democratic National Party. Mark wiU be the campaign manager for JCMIN J. GILLI­GAN, ND grad and candidate for the govemoiship of (Xao. 
Joseph P. Muffigan 
Admissions Office 
Notre Dame. Ind. 46556 
tt COME BACK, COME BACK Come back Shane, come back Flor, come back Dreska. back Boz, Mason, Mac. J.C, one and alL Tlie time is now. Retum to the SL Joe. See the old sights aiKl kam about the new. Enjoy a seminar or sip a beer. Better yet, try both. It's can popping, divot flying, camera clicking and conversation time. Bring .a round baB—stomadi. head or golf! 
They're coming: BILL WHITE, Dubuque, Iowa, is an industrial engineering supervisor for John Deere Tractor. He and Fran have Bin (8), Wendy (7), John (S) and David (3). SAHAG OXIAN, South Bend, is teaddng Frendi in the Brandywine schools, UDts, and spends some time playing cdio in the Elkhart Sympiioay. JOE JANSEN, Indiaiiapidis, is the fiuher of a sixth dO), Stephen Christopher, bom last spring. DAN REYNOLDS. PittsboDA and his wife, Joan, have two dnhben. Laura and Ihomas. 
Dan has been with the Highway Equip­ment Co. since 1961 and is looking forward to seeing some old(er) faces. KEVIN WHALEN—oh, how ibe mighty have fallen—was married in April to Barbara Lucas, Buffalo, N.Y. DAVE ROLLER received his M.B.A. in 1969 from the U. of Chicago and is now project supervisor at Teletype Corp., Skolde, HI. His wife, Janie, teaches piano students and is the busy mother of Kathy (6), David (5) and Christopher (3V4). DEE STEVENSON, Niles, Mich., has a new son. Grant, to go with his two daughters. TOM KANE is now the budget director for Diamond Red Trucks in Lansing, Mich. He and wife, Susan, have twin girls and one son, Timothy. FRED (PETE) DEUTSCH and his wife, Jan, are the parents of three daughters. Fred is the chief product planning analyst for Lincoln. JIM CURCIO is with Gary Steel Products Corp., as an office manager. Jim, the father of two sons, recently was elected to the board of directors for Phillips McColley, Inc., a wholesale plumbing company. JIM DOMINELLO JR. and his wife are the parents of a new son, Vincent. Jim is working as an account executive for Jeehl Advertising Agency, South Bend. JIM PETERS is a fiscal officer at the Cornel! U. Medical College. Jim had previously been at Rutgers U. for two years as business manager of the medical school and had spent two years with the U.S. Public 
Health Service, and three and one-half at the American Embassy in Tokyo. Jim has two girls and two boys. WALT RUSSELL JR. has moved from Dallas to Bozeman, MonL, to teach history and coach football and track at Bozeman High. His wife, Jan, and children, Mike, Danny, Tom and Mary Maureen, are enjoying the mountains. 
Some maybes: ED KEARSE is the corporation counsel for Syracuse, N.Y. Prior to that, he was a staff attorney for Bristol-Meyers Co., and on LBJ's White House staff. MIKE KELLY is attorney and vice-president of Victoria Bank and Trust Co. in Texas. He and Kathryn have three children. TOM ADAMSON and wife are living in Fair Oaks, Calif., with Ryan (3), Keven (116) and Marisa (4 mo.). PETE CYBULSKIS is a research engineer with Battelle Memorial Institute in Columbus. He is a registered professional engineer and is engaged in research on a broad spectrum of nuclear engineering problems. D.B. SWEENEY is an engineer with Sweeney Brothers Tractor Co., Fargo, N.D. He and his wife, Anne Elizabeth, and their four children love the skiing. BOB FINDLAY, Silver Springs, Md., is assistant corporation counsel for the D.C. government and was married last June to Pat Pierlott JOHN GUNDERMANN is the father of four sons and is emjdoyed as an assistant to the superintendent in steelmaking at Johnstown plant of Bethlehem Steel. JIM THOMPSON and wife, Jill, moved from Fresno to Palm Springs when Merrill Lynch opened there. JOE REYNOLDS is now the Clarence Danow of Reno. DENNY NOLAN is back in San Francisco and DENNIS KIDDER, after four months in Harvard's management develop­ment program, was recently appointed director of American Can's technical service 
lab in Batavia, 111. Dr. JOHN O'BRIEN'S first child, Kevin, was bom in November at Colorado Springs. GEORGE KENT WELDON was married in October to Irene Endres of Watertown, N.Y. BILL WELDON '56 was best man, and JOE BOCK JR. was an usher. ED MEYER JR. was recently elected to the board of directors of the American National Bank of Green Bay. JIM HOLZBACH is serving with the officer in chaige of construction in Saigon. He's involved primarily with the fixed-price contracts for facilities which are being built by contractors other than the RMK-BRJ combine. These are generally in the outlying areas. ANTHONY MACIOCE and wife, Jacqudine, ate living in Warren, Mich., wlieiie Anthony is the executive art director and vice-president of Ross Roy, Inc., a Detroit ad agency. 
Here stop and spend a social time in harmless mirth and fun Let friendship reign, be just and kind and evil speak of none. Return! 
Thomas J. O'ConneD 
3350 Everett 
Lake Forest, III. 60045 
'61L UTTLE TIDMIS 
A Christmas message received from Mary 
and ROD METTE informed me of the 
addition to the household of Roderick 
Andrew. TOM CLUSSERATH wrote a 
note, giving his address: 18807 Stare 
SL, Northridge, Cafif. 91324. 
Congratulations to MIKE O'BRIEN, the 
new mayor of the city of Peoria. 
New address department: GERRY GALLIVAN, 1531 Simpson St., Apt 302, Madison, Wis. 53713; RUSS LLOYD, 1808 McConnell Ave., Evansville, Ind. 47715; JOHN PLATTNER, 1540 Kaywood, Glenview, III. 6002S; and JACK MANDERS, 1526 Pioneer Rd., Des Moines, Iowa 50230. 
We are still planning on having a reunion in June, 1971, and would appreciate some indication as to enthusiasm or lack of it 
John N. Moreland P.O. Box 247 Ottumwa, Iowa 52501 
'63 NEWS NOTES EDWARD J. DWYER JR. is now working as a traffic superintendent for New York Telephone in Brooklyn. First Lt. JOSEPH 
S. SMITH has received his USAF silver pilot wings and is assigned to Luke AFB, Ariz. ROBERT ARTHUR CLARK is in graduate school at Stanford U. as an Atomic Energy Commission special fellow in nuclear science and engineering. STANTON BROWN M.D. has just returned from 13 months with the Army as a surgeon in Korea. He is now stationed in Letterman General Hospital in San Francisco. 
CHARLIE McCULLOUGH is a pQot with Western International Airlines. He and . his wife. Heather, have three i^dren, John Murphy, bom Nov. 15 being the latest EDWARD RUTKOWSKI has been appointed account executive with Mars Publications. ARNOLD TESTA became papa to a son bom March 12, 1969. He is employed by IBM in Oakland, Calif., as a mariceting representative. RALPH E. SIPPLE was married April 25, 1969, and now lives in Shareview, Minn. TOM WILLMENGM is with the first U.S. Air Force Hosjrital at Hamilbn AFB, Calif. He previously served in Kwang Ju Ab, Korea. G. WILLIAM RYAN was promoted to general sales manager at Kaiser Broadcasting's WKBS TV, Phila­delphia. JOHN E. VALERIOTE is aUve and wen, practicing law in Guelph, Ontario. He and wife, Sherron, have two chSdien, Noelle and John David. RAYMOND RAEDY was appointed by the National Society of Public Accountants to be their new staff counsel effective Jan. 1. THEODORE FRETEL writes from New Haven, Conn., where he is living with his wife and daughter, and working as a lawyer. 
A.G. HERMIDA writes from San Juan, niiere he is working for the Servicios Legales de Puerto Rico, an OEO-funded office which provides free legal aid to the poor. A.G. tau^t physics for a while, before going to law school and graduating magna cum laude. He reports that DICK SCHRADER is teaching English at Princeton after eamitig his PhD. at Ohio State. KEVIN CAHILL earned his Ph.D. at Harvard in theoretical physics, and is now in France someplace, according to A.G. Thanks for the nice note, A.G., and good luck! 
WILLIAM H. SCHRODER writes from 
Atlanta, where he is a new partner 
in a law firm. He is married and has two 
daughters now. TOM WILLIAMS 
honeymooned in England after a December 
wedding and completion of law school 
at Catholic U. ED STARK is living in 
Gretna, La., and working for Humble Oil 
Co. He and Joy have a new dau^ter. 
STEVE SEGURA is stationed in New Mexico at Holloman AFB after a Vietnam tour. RON CIANCIO is working as a lawyer in Wheaton, 111., and is also assistant to the city attorney of Wheaton. There's another baby girl belonging to Ron and wife, Susan. MIKE CONNOR'S wife, Cassie, had their second daughter, Cara, in January. Mike is still pushing uranium for Westingfaouse in Pittsburgh. JACK GARRITY completed the course work and exams for his Ph.D. at Brooklyn Polytech in A.E. He and three children and wife will move to Schenectady soon where he will join G.E. 
BRUCE FUGGITI fives at 104 S.W. Fifth Ave., Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 33312, and his phone number is 522-5270. He en­courages any classmates who come to the area to look him up. 
ROBERT R. KLEIN was married in 1967 and has one child, Victoria Christina, bom Dec. 10, 1968. He graduated from Yale in June of 1969, with a Ph.D. in Ch.E. He is working for Uniroyal Chemical as a senior research engineer. 
RAYMOND W. SHEM was commis­sioned a second lieutenant in the Air Force upon graduation from Officer Training School at Lackland AFB, Tex. He was assigned to Randolph AFB, Tex., for pilot training. 
Dr. DAVID FEDRICK is currenUy serving as dental officer aboard the USS Yellowstone (AD-27) at Mayport Fla. He win spend five months in Europe with the ship (November to April). Dave hopes to retum for dental specialty training in prosthodontics (two-year residency). 
ROBERT W. FERREL is emidoyed by National Air Lines, Miami, as a pilot. BERNARD L. NEMETH is working as controUer of the Cori Corp., Bremen, Ind. 
Tom Hotopp 55 Churchffl Place R.D. No. 1 Big Hats, N.Y. 14814 '64 REFOKT ON THE 'Mcis JIM OLIVER has completed a year of graduate work at Columbia U. as a CBS fellow in broadcasting and has returned to Norfolk, Va., where he is with WTAR-TV. He and his wife, Mary, have two daughters. 

Rev. PAT McCORMICK was ordained in Rome last year and is now in the diocese of AUanta. Lt. LARRY HAGERTY is the executive officer of the USS Apache. He and his wife, Mary, have two children and live in San Diego. JIM FRITSCH is with Monsanto in St. Louis as a process design engineer after spending two years in Europe with Monsanto International. FRITZ HOLZGREGE JR. is assistant general manager of Ralston Purina Argentine in Buenos Aires. 
THOMAS F. LAVELLE JR. M.D. com­pleted his internship at St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend, July 1 and is on temporary duty at the Naval Hospital, San Diego, Calif. WILLIAM "BEN" MUNSON completed two years as a captain in the Army and has become adminis­trative assistant for Congressman Ray Roberts (D. Tex.). 
JOHN R. MILLWATER M.D., George­town U., June, 1968, married Ann O'Leary of Washington, D.C., a graduate of Trinity College, Washington, D.C. His internship was at Washington Hospital Center from July, 1968, to June, 1969. He was with the U.S. Navy as general medical officer, starting July, 1969, through June, 1971, and is stationed at the 
U.S. Naval Hospital, Guam, Marianae Islands. 
JOHN R. BAKER is employed with First Computer Corp., Saint Paid, Minn. John married Mary Kathleen Coonan in Saint Paul on May 30, 1969, and presently is residing in Saint Paul. MJ. LUEA is with the Michigan department of social services and is now focusing on migrant agricultural families. His new daughter and second child, Bridget Mary, was bom Feb. S to wife, Barbara Sibislky Luea (Clark College '66). 
EDWARD R STARK JR. has been named supervising reservoir engineer for the Oklahoma City production district of the Humble Oil and Refining Co.'s cenUal division. WILLIAM RICH is practicing law in Atlanta with the firm of Greene, Buckley, De Rieux and Jones. He received his law degree from Emory 
U. KEN SPENGLER received his M.D. from Boston U. School of Medicine. He and his wife, Ellen, are now living in Albuquerque, N.M., where he is interning at the Bemanillo County Medical Center. JOHN A. BISH, a captain in the USAF, is stationed in Vietnam with the 21st Tactical Air Support Squadron. 
JOHN R SCULLY was promoted to captain in the USAR and assigned to the 42Sth Transportation Command as the adjutant in Forest Park, 111. DAVID H. BARLOW was appointed assistant professor of psychiatry at the U. of Mississippi School of Medicine in Jackson. He has his Ph.D. from the U. of Vermont THOMAS J. McANDREW was granted a license as a professional engineer and is employed by Bellante, Claus, Miller and Nolan. He and his wife, Ann Marie, have one son, Thomas. 
JOHN W. COOK was released from the 
U.S. Navy in September and is now working in the controllers division of Procter and Gamble Co. in Cindimati. WILLIAM J. BETZ was commissioned a 
second lieutenant in the U.S. Air Force 
upon graduation from Officer Training 
School at Lackland AFB, Tex. He is 
assigned to Laredo AFB, Tex., for pilot 
training. JOHN M. BRADLEY ended 
a three-year tour with the Navy in October. 
He received the Navy Commendation Medal 
while serving on the USS Coral Sea. 
ROCCO R. TUTELA M.D. graduated from the U. of Bologna School of Medicine, Bologna, Italy. JERRY ADAMS is working with the space systems division of Hughes Aircraft, as group bead for satellite attitude control systems. He received his M.S. from UCLA on a Hughes Fellowship in 1967. THOMAS N. MORRISSEY received the M.S. in electrical engineering in 1966 from MIT, and his Ph.D. in electrical engineering from ND in 1968. He was married to Patricia Ann Flaherty in November, 1968, and is completing his military service as a captain in the U.S. Army at the Aberdeen proving ground. 
ROBERT A. URSO resumed his career as a graphic designer in N.Y. after Army, service, and worked as an art director for several magazines before he accepted a teaching position vrith Western Washington State College, Bellingham, Wash. Bob married Barbara Smith from Saint Louis, a former fashion designer. Harris Trust and Savings Bank, Chicago, has promoted DENNIS R LeJEUNE to international banking officer. JOSEPH R. CASPAR received his Ph.D. from the U. of Maryland in June. He was married May 3 to the former Rita M. Schaefler of Newton Square, Pa. They are living near Hartford, Conn., where he is working for United Aircraft Research Labs. Second Lt DAVID R. CELMER has been awarded the U.S. Air Force silver pilot wings upon graduation from Craig AFB, Ala. 
Clay Stephens 206 Marian Ave. Fanwood, NJ. 07023 
'65 NO CUTS ALLOWED Another reminder: Reunion '70 is scheduled for June 12, 13 and 14. Attendance is mandatory and no cuts will be granted. A specific calendar of events will be mailed to you shortly. 
Capt DOUG LOVEJOY is an intelli­gence officer stationed in Saigon, with the job of attempting to comprehend and combat enemy propaganda. Doug's wife, Jean, and his daughter, Rachel, are in New York awaiting his return in June. Doug plans to enter the foreign service. Doug earned a master's in public ailaiis at Princeton in their Woodrow Wilson School before entering the Army. LEE MCCARTHY joined NBC news in Washington, D.C, last May and now handles local reporting but has been on national radio and TV quite frequently. Lee and wife, Bobbie, have two daughters, Bridget (2'A) and Colleen (1), and are now homeowners in the Washington suburbs. 
RICH FRANCO is serving as junior counsel for the California Public Utility Commission and, along with MIKE MAAS '66, has set up a bachelors' pad called "Badin 11" in San Francisco. Mike is a production manager for FairchHd Semi­conductor. Since October, Capt CARL SORRENTINO has been engaged as the air inteUigence officer for the 31st tactical fighter wing of Tuy Hoa AFB in Vietnam. RICK CAREY has completed 
his mililaiy obli^tion and is now woikinf 
for Price WateilioiBe in Chicaao. 
JIM WILSON M.S. '65 was awarded a 
Pfa.D. in 1967 from Stanford in mathemat­
ics and is now dudrman of the department ' of mathematics education at the U. of 
Georgia. His department has the laqest 
such faculty in the coontty. JOfOt 
GORDON is practicing law in Kansas City, 
with the firm of Gordon, Adams. Niewald 
and Risioid, and is married to Frances 
West of AtUnta. John recehred his 
J.D. from Saint Louis U. Law School 
in June, 1968. Last August, JIM LONGE received an 
M.B.A.
 firom the U. of Midiigan and subsequently joined the First Wisconsin National Budc of Milwaukee, the largest bank in the sUte. MIKE HAGGERTY has comideted his Anny tour and is now working as the assistant director of pubh'c relations for the Baltimore Orioles. Mike is engaged to Nancy Healy of Chicago. VIN GRAHAM is working on a master's degree at NO and NICK RASSAS is studying for his M3.A. at Loyola U. Business School in Chicago. JOE D'ERCOLE receiTed his MJ>. from Georgetown Medical Sdiool in June and is now interning in pediatrics at the New England Medical Ceattr in Boston. Also earning their MJ).'s in Jime from Marquette Medical Scfao<ri were BOB DEMUNG, JOHN UJDA, CHARLEY BUCK and JOHN WOODS. Bob is doing his thing as a straight surgical intern at the 

U.
 of California in San Francisco, and plans both a career in cardiovascular surgery and to stay where he is next year for a residency. 


ED PRICE has completed his service with the Air Force and has taken a job with the civil service at Wri^t Patterson AFB, CXuo, as a systems engineer. His wife. Pat, is expecting a baby shortly. RAY McLAIN is working for the Illinois department of mental health part-time and for a federally funded experimental school program in a rural, all-black poverty pocket south of Park Forest the other half of the time. Ray's functions vary from writing mental health grants and programs to actual teaching. Ray and We, Suzi, have two chfldren, Meeghan and David. 
JOHN RYNELL passed the Illinois 
C.P.A. exam last May and MIKE RYNELL was commissioned a second lieutenant in June and is now stationed at Ft Hood. Tex. DON ZONE and wife, Mary Lou, are expecting their first baby this Jiue. Don received his M.D. from the State U. of New York at Bufblo last June and is interning at Rochester General, where he will also be next year for a medical residency. Just prior to his disdiarge from the Navy last November, JOE HENRICK was married to June Hultgren of Seekonk, Mass. Joe's brother, JOHN HENRICK '57. is now a priest and he said the nuptial Mass. Joe is living near Narra­gansett. RJ.. and working on his M3.A. at the U. of Rhode Island. 
Some great personal news to report My wife, Kathy SMC '66 gave tnrth to a 7-pound, 11-ounce boy on Nov. 10. His name is Kevin James and he is destined for ND. 
James P. Hamisdi 
863 R Granville Rd., Apt B 
Columbus, Otao 43224 

Congrats 

JAMES C. DOYLE '60 has been promoted to product manager in the hospital products division of the Kendall Co., Chicago. Doyle began his Kendall career in 1960 as a field sales representative. He, his wife and three children reside in Matteson, III. 
THOMAS P. QUINN '60 has been appointed maiiceting manager for Raytheon Co.'s computer operation in Santa Ana, Calif. Prior to joining Raytheon in 1968, Quinn was Midwest district sales manager for the Digital Equipment Corp. He and his family, including six children, reside in Santa Ana. 
PATRICK J. CALLAHAN '61 has been appointed assistant vice-president of the Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit. He is responsible for the operation of five branch offices and resides in Birmingham, Mich. 
WILLIAM R. POGUE '61 has joined AMAX Aluminum Mill Products, Inc., as a sales manager for Northern California. He will be responsible for sales activities of AMAX aluminimi sheet, plate and tubing in the Northern California area and is headquartered in Palo Alto. 
JOHN M. BRADY '66 has received 13 combat decorations, including the Distinguished Flying Cross, while on assignment at Cam Ranh Bay Air Base, Vietnam. He is currently stationed at the Wiesbaden Air Base, Germany. The Air Force captain was cited for sustained outstanding airmanship during the 219 combat missions he logged. 
JOSEPH W. FOBES III '66, a U.S. Air Force captain, has been decorated for heroism and outstanding airmanship during a 12-month Southeast Asia tour. He received three awards of the Distinguished Flying Cross and 13 awards of the Air Medal and is now serving with the 15th Tactical Fighter Wing at MacDill AFB, Fla. 
'ft PATIENCE, MEN 
Your response to my call for information 
has been tremendous! I'll try to get as 
many of you in as possible but if you don't 
see your name this month, please be 
patient It will show up in my next article. 
MeanwhOe,' keep up the good work. 
As always, there is much news from our classmates in the armed forces. Lt. MELVIN RAY DANYSH is presenUy in Germany as projects and plan officer for the District Engineer Office, Wueid>urg. He received his M.S. in civil engineering from ND in 1968. Ray and wife, Carolyn, became the proud parents of a baby gid. Heather Rae, last August. Capt DENNY O'CONNELL was married in August after graduating from Saint Louis IT. Law School. Denny and his wife. Sherry, are now stationed in New Orleans with the Judge Advocate Corps. Second Lt MICHAEL DOBROWOLSKI is in flight school at F t Stewart, Ga., where he and his wife, Joyce, became the parents of a girl, Deanna Marie. Lt JOHN HALE is assigned to Cam Ranh Bay AB, with an aeromedical evacuation detachment involved in flying battle casualties back to the states. 
Capt JOSEPH JANSEN was awarded the Bronze Star Medal for meritorious service while engaged in an armed conflict in Vietnam. Joe and wife, JoAnn, are the parents of a handsome son, JoseiA. L t ROBERT DOWNS is stationed at the Navy hospital in Guam after receiving his master's from the 
V. of Minnesota in hospital administration. Bob did his residency at St Mary's Hospital in Minneapolis. 
MICHAEL RUSH is assigned to the 5tb South Vietnamese Division as an adviser from the 1st U.S. Air Cavalry Division, located about 20 miles northwest of Saigon. Upon Mike's return to the States, he is planning a September wedding and the commencement of grad school in business administration at either Harvard or Stanford. Second Lt DAN GULLING is stationed at the Pentagon in the office of the defense secretary. In October, Dan's wife had their second child, Scott 
With the reporting of news from Vietnam, it is with great regret that I must sometimes announce the death of one of our fellow classmates. RICHARD J. ROUGHGARDEN was killed in Vietnam, Sept 14. Also at this time, I regrettably relate the news of another classmate of ours ^ o has died. ALAN W. VALKENAAR was killed in an auto accident Dec. 14. Your prayers are requested for them both. Your prayers are also requested for the eternal repose of the soul of my mother, who died Dec. 17 after an extended illness with cancer. Those of you who had the privilege of meeting her know how much ND meant to her. Please let us keep all three of them in our thoughts and prayers. 
Our class President JOHN BUCK writes with news of several of our class­mates. TERRY GOLDEN, John's roomie, is. living in Boston where he is about to complete his M.B.A. at Harvard this spring. TIM BARD, who recently got out of the Navy, matriculated in the Wharton M.B.A. program this January. JOE BODELL and wife. Dee, are in Philadelphia, where Joe is in his second year at Villanova Law School. MIKE CARROLL is in Philadelphia also, where he is working with Buriington Industries. BILL FOSTER and RICH LA PORTE 
just obtained their law degrees. Bill got his from Rutgers and Rich got his from Duke. Rich is teaching political science at Wilberforce U. in Ohio. DENNY DUNIGAN and PAT GREEN are currenUy studying law at the U. of Texas Law School. DREW KERSHEN recentiy graduated with honors from Texas Law School and he and his wife, Kathy, are living in Columbus, Ga., where Drew is in the Army. BILL SCANLON is working on his Ph.D. in economics at the U. of Wisconsin. JOE PETE WILBERT received his M.B.A. from the IT. of Texas and he and wife, Mary, are living in the New York City area. MIKE CAOLO and his wife, Patty, are living in Dallas, where Mike is practicing law after graduating from ND Law SchooL Our class president himself obtained his J.D. from the V. of Texas and worked for a year with Southwestern Bell. John and his wife. Carry, and their two sons, Patrick and Daniel, are in Philadelphia, where John is starting Wharton's 
M.B.A. program. 
KEN MEYER, who was married last April, is now serving as an investment manager at the Harris Bank in Chicago. TOM WEBER was married to Stephanie Anthony in August, 1968, and is studying for his Ph.D. in theoretical chemistry at Johns Hopkins U. 
Congratulations to all the '66ers who are excelling in so many different areas. 
Richard H. Angelotti 
8640 S. 86th Ave., Apt. 203 
Justice, lU. 604S8 
'ML SORRY 'BOUT THAT 
My apologies for missing the deadline for 
the last issue. 
Cookie and I send our thanks to all who sent Christmas cards and particularly to those who enclosed notes. We received cards from: JOHN GOTTLICK, Pat and JIM HAKES, BOB SIEBERT, Joan and PAUL POLKING, Tern and BOB KRAUSE, Susan and PAUL NIEMEYER, Etta and SCOTTY MAXWELL, JAY DOUGHERTY, JuUe and TOM KENNEY, Wendy and AL McKENNA (new address: 324 Dennison Court, Gahanna, Ohio 43230), Maureen and BOB MURPHY, Pat and MARTY CONWAY, TOM HARVEY (address: Capt T. E. Harvey, 309-42-1180, ABN. ADV. DET (TM No. 162), APO SF 96301), Madge and RAY STARMANN, Bonnie and STEVE SEALL and Anne and NORMAN MANDEL. 
DENNIS DEE plans to specialize in real estate law and estate planning. He became associated last January with the law firm of Lipsitz, Green, Fahringer, Roll, Schyler and James, Buffalo, N.Y. He served with the Army in South Vietnam (as a captain), and while there he was adviser to the South Vietnamese concerning both military affairs and the pacification program. 
Ray Starmann is an investment banker now with Halsey, Stuart and Co., Inc., Chicago. He writes that his work is very interesting. Marty Conway is now back from Vietnam, and he is stationed with the Marines in California. 
Tom Harvey called on his way to Europe. He has served one year with the Army in Vietnam, six months as a volunteer adviser to a South ^^etnam battalion and he has volunteered to go back for a second six montiis. On his second tour, he received a Purple Heart for yAat he describes as a superfidal wound in the arm. He will be spending the next tour on the Cambodian 
border. 
We received a nice note from Diane and 
MIKE MORUCCL They have a boy and 
two girls now, and Mike is teaching at 
Wheeling College and studying for his Ph.D. 
at Pitt Kelly and Rachel HAUGH were 
bom Feb. 17. Phyllis and JOHN now have 
two boys and two girls, and I am willing 
to stand corrected, but I think they now 
have more children than anyone in the dass. 
Bob Murphy spent two months in Detroit 
trying the Algiers Motel case for the 
government. The Mandels have confirmed 
their intention to stay in Washington area 
by purchasing a new townhouse in 
Manassas, Va. 
Don't forget your new year's resolutions 
and send me a note. 
Frank Gregory 
5018 Woodland Way 
Annandale, Va. 22003 
'<7L FORM LETTERS—•«« 
A form letter from my editor indicated 
that the following was cut from last month's 
column: Maureen and JACK HARTY are 
living at S31 S. Gunderson, Oak Park, HI. 
60304. I reported the birth of a girl to 
this couple but Jack writes claiming a boy, 
Brian Conan, on July 25. My information 
came from a reliable source—are you sure. 
Jack? The KIRBYs are living at 122 E. 
Broadway, Staten Island, N.Y., with their 
two boys, John Patrick (4) and James (2). 
They report having seen MIKE SMITH 
after his tour with the Peace Corps. A card 
from JOHN BLASI indicates that he is 
still at the Great Lakes base and is the 
staff officer to the recruit training command. 
He also acts as a military judge once a 
Week. 

Rather than run the risk of printing scurrilous rumors, I quote from J. SEAN KEENAN's letter: "I take off for Saint Louis at 5 p.m. Going to see my 'giri friend' and her family and possibly make a few plans for the future—May to be exact" Sean will finish with the Navy in eariy '71. He's enrolled in American U.'s M.B.A. program as of this spring. 
Capt JOHN HARGROVE is sUtioned outside Da Nang and is presently handling afirst-degree murder case. He saw DICK MUENCH around Christmas. Dick had just returned from R and R in Australia. Although it meant getting up at 3 ajn., John heard the Cotton Bowl game over armed forces radio. He now regrets the loss of sleep. 
GREG NASKY had some good news from Nam. Hell be coming home at the end of this month. I should print his new duty stau'on but my son ate the letter. The HEINHOLDs moved into their new home in February. I figure we'll be settled and have everything in tip top shape in about six years. Note the new address below. 
ApparenUy it is either feast or famine with respect to receiving info on the class. As you might expect, I received many cards and letters around Christmas but it has been famine ever since. Mease write and don't feel slighted that you don't get a response. If mention of it doesn't get in the column, then complain. If any of you come East, don't forget to give me a call. 203 468-0537. Thanks. 
James C. Heinhold 16 Morris Rd. East Haven, Conn. 06S13 t» TWO MEN ME On bdialf of the members of our class, I would like to extend our sincere condtdences and prayers to the parents of FRED SCHWARTZ, who was killed in an automobile accident while with the Peace Corps in Swaziland, A&ica. While at ND, Fred was president of the Blue Cirde in his senior year. 
Our sympathy and prayers to the parents 
of STEPHEN CHANEY, who attended 
ND in 1964-65 on a football scholarship. 
Steve was killed in September while on 
combat operations with the fifth special 
forces airborne group in Vietnam. 
First Lt. JOHN MEANY reports from 
the rice paddies of the Delta that he is with 
an advisory team in Kien Phong Province 
while 1st U. DAVE VECCHIA is with an 
advisory team in the Binh Minh district 
John has some newsworthy notes from back 
in the world. He reports that 2nd Lt 
PAUL SWENSON is sUtioned at Ft SO, 
Okla. PAUL STULGAITIS is in his second 
year at Wharton Business School wbUe 
KEN LARSON has passed two parts of 
his C.P.A. exam and is with Haskins and 
Sdls. TOM SCHENK has finished his 
National Guard training at Ft Sam 
Houston and is working toward his M.B.A. 
at Adelphi U. 
Some other members of the dass serving in the rice bowl are 2nd Lt CLIFF TOMASZEWSKL 1st Lt TOM RYAN and 1st Lt BOB NO(»IAN. Tom writes that TOM HOLSTEIN and JOE BLAKE were in the Marine Corps OCS program, but he doesn't know where Aey are stationed. 
And now some items from back in the worid. Congratulations to Mary Ann and ED LIEBLER on the birth of Jill Ann on Nov. 10, 1969. Ed is with Peat, Marwick and Mitchell in Indianapolis. Also congratulations to FRED FRANCO and his wife on the birth of their son, Dec. 27, 1969. Fred is in his second year at Seton Hall Law ScbooL 
DENNY WITHERS reports that CHRIS MURPHY and JOE DERRICO are in tbrir second year at the U. of Virginia Law SchooL Chris and his wife, Carmi, expected their first child in February. JIM HOFFMAN is also in his second year of law school at the U. of Oregon. 
Denny also reports that while he was at the Cotton Bowl, he ran into KEN DiLAURA. MIKE COLEMAN and JOE STARK. Also at the game were MKE STERLING and his wife, Sber^. Mike is stationed with the Air Force at San Antonio. At ED HAGGAR's New Year's Eve bash at the Fairmont Hotd were FRED FERLIC from Conidl Medical School and BILL SWEETMAN, who is serving in the Navy and is stationed in Virginia. MIKE JORDAN, now witfi the Ahmmi Office, and RUSS BELLAMY, who is associated with Gtridman and &chs in Dallas, were on hand for all the festivities. 
BUD ROBARDS is finishing his work on his master's at the U. of Minnesota and counseling at Hopkins High School JOHN MILCEnCH has received his MS. from the U. of Michigan and is an instructor of mathematics at Federal City Odleie, Washington. D.C. BOB WIORSKI was rdeased from the Army after six months at Ft Pblk, and plans to return to law sdiool at Loyola U., Chicago. 
BRUCE BARTLEY writes that be is in the 13th finance section at Qui Nhon, Vietnam, while 1st Lt PAT BARTH 
is with the 5th infantry (Mech.) near the 
DMZ. Lt (j.g.) DAVE PIERMAN 
received his Navy wings and is assigned 
to training squadron seven at Meridian, 
Miss., as a flight instructor. JOE PETRO 
was tapped by Uncle Sara and is a 
second lieutenant stationed at Ft. Sill, 
Okla. Second Lt STEVE SULLIVAN, 
of the Air Force, is with the 916th air 
refueling squadron, a unit of SAC. Second 
Lt CHARLES DUGAND and DON 
HARPER are also in the Air Force. Don 
is on temporary duty at Mildenhall Royal 
Air Force Base, England, while Chuck 
is a navigator at Mather AFB, Calif. 
Second Lt DAN PARACCHINI is 
assigned to Sewart AFB, Tenn., after 
receiving his pilot wings upon graduation 
from Laredo AFB, Tex. 
Army 2nd Lt JOHN O'BRIEN is with 
the 2nd infantry division in Korea as 
executive officer of headquarters troop, 
fourth squadron. TOM SCULLY and JOHN 
McSHANE, Army first lieutenants, are 
also serving in Vietnam. Tom is at 
Tay Ninh and has been awarded the Army 
Commendation Medal. Tom was married 
to Miss Maureen McCaully of Louisville 
last July 26. John received the Bronze 
Star while on duty. 
Don't forget to keep those letters coming. 
SP/4 Leonard Pellecchia 
148-36-8584 
1st Inf. Div. 
A Btry 8th Bn 6th Arty 
APO S.F. 96345 
'ML BLAME THOSE EDITORS 
My apologies to those who wrote to me 
over Christmas and were not mentioned in 
my last column. The editors cut a big 
piece out of it which will be included 
in this one. 
I received a long letter from BOB BELLUOMINl, now Capt Belluomini, who, as previously mentioned, is in Vietnam. After mistakenly being sent to Dong Ha, just a mortar away from the DMZ, he was transferred to Da Nang, where he is now with the legal office for the III Marine Amphibious Force. Bob has gone from defense counsel at court martials to legal assistance work, which involves everything from domestic relations to personnel claims. The workweek is long and he loves to relax by watching the month-old Ed Sullivan shows. Bob rarely gets into town because he does not like to carry his .45 around with him. Bob is soon scheduled to be transferred to a new location. 
On Jan. 4, Molly and Meg WILCZEK flew to Hawaii to spend a week with BOB (her Bob), who was on leave. They loved the place and hope to go back. It won't be too long now before Bob comes home. JOHN COYLE is stationed in Bien Hoa, a little bit outside of Saigon. The VC must have known he was coming, because within a week of his arrival, Bien Hoa, a relatively safe place, was hit with two rocket attacks. One rocket hit within 100 meters of J.C's hooch. J.C's duties are that of supply officer and legal counsel for the First Cavalry Division. He has tried several court martials and has won every case. J.C. has also acted as liaison officer and has seen a great deal of the country. Although he doesn't profess to have a solution to the problem, he does feel that an immediate U.S. withdratval would lead to a North Vietnam 
takeover within six to eight months. 
Enough from the war zone. Carol and 
TOM WARD added JiU Meredith to the 
Ward household in September. The Wards 
are still in Vermont Since finishing 
work on his LL.M. and hb teaching 
job in August Tom has been deridng 
for Chief Judge Bernard J. Leddy, 
U.S. district judge. After completing his clerkship, Tom will work for a finn in Burlington. TIM WOODS is now sta­tioned at the Naval Air Statioii, WUdbey Island, Wash. Tim attended Naval Justice School in November and December and met Barb and ERNIE ABATE while there. The Abates are now in California. Tun anticipates staying in Washington for his two-year stint and seems to like the place. He reports that he and Janice are still happily married. She must have the patience of a saint 
Mary Kay and JIM WIRTZ have had both a little good and bad luck in the last few months. After being invdved in a collision, which resulted in a sli^t whiplash for Mary, their home was burgled and Jim lost several pairs of pants, among other things. The good news was that Jim and Mary moved into a new house last August and have bought a new car to replace the old Valiant, whidi had been totaled. Jim has now passed the Pennsylvania C.P.A. exam and has been promoted to the position of "setuor" with Price Waterhouse. That is the second of four levels in an accounting firm. LANNY BONENBERGER is teaching part time at Wheeling Ccrikge; be teaches a course in business law. The Bonenberger political career is soon to be ofiSdaHy launched. Lanny has filed for the state legislature. The piimary will be in the spring and the election in the faU. More news on the TOM CURTIN wedding. Ihe bride-to-be is Sue Bradley. Tom and Sue became engaged over Christmas and will be married Sept 19 by Fr. Lewers. From the way he writes, Tom is really happy. 
Please keep those letters coming. 
Dennis C. Thelen 
7816 Lisa Dr. 
Norfolk, Va. 23518 
'«» MMA. WEIJCOME! 
Greetings and welcome to the first edition 
of class notes submitted by the Graduate 
School of Business. A great deal has 
happened to the charter dass of M.B.A.S 
since they were set loose on the business 
worid last June, so I will get ri^t down 
to reporting 
NICK WALZ and Us wife, Sara, have been in touch regulariy. Nidc has taken a position with TWA and has been subjected to such trying assigimients as a trip to the aiiline's Paris office. Nick and Sara hosted a victory party after the Army game in October. Hfteen of the '69 M.B.A.S attended and the d^ree of celebration was commensurate widi Ihe margin of victory. Nick shared in Ae frustrations of the Cotton Bowl in person on New Year's Day. 
After some minor moving pfoidems (caused mainly by the bilure of their moving van to avoid • mountain), KEN CULLUM's family setded m BhiS City, Tenn. Ken is with Bristol Jion and Sted and is learning the sted ftbiicating business. 
WILL McGUIRE has a new position and a new address. Writing fiom No. 2 Chase St, Bellingham, Mass., Will reports that he is nowrepresenting Creative Packaging in six New England states. RICH LYMAN is touring the corporate marketing activities of Smith, Kline and French, and is waiting for his first opportunity to make a strategic top management decision. Our representative in the banking industry, 
XAVIER MONGE's postgraduation trip through the Southern U.S. and Central America was interrupted by the hostilities between Honduras and El Salvador. Xavier is emjdoyed by ECL Industries in Guayaquil, Ecuador. JOHN KNITTEL has moved into a production position with the photo products department of Dupont in Pariin, NJ. WILLIAM FONG is emjdoyed by Metropolitan Life Insurance in New York. He finds that New York living is expensive, but enjoyed the mirade of the Mets last summer. BERNIE BIEG is currently an assistant controller for Rohm and Haas and hoping that Philaddphia can trade the Phillies to Seattle in an even swap for the Pilots. Bemie had a back operation in February and we would like to wish him and his golf game a quick recovery. 
Several more M.BAs have joined the merger movement by taking wives since graduation. Congratulations to Maria and TOM GILL, who were married in June and honeymooned in Canada. The question now is vidiether they ever came back. Your secretary was privileged to witness the greatest upset since the N.Y. Mets won the Worid Series when DENNIS McCARTHY fell from the ranks of bachelorhood in December. Best of luck to Denny and his bride of Dec. 13, Beth Brown. Two 
M.B.A.S marched down the aisle in February. Congratulations to GENE DIXON and his bride, Chris, who were married in Detroit on Feb. 7. Gene is now working in marketing information services for DuPont in Delaware. The Dixons' new address is 2901 Cross Fork Dr., Apt 1-A, Wflmington, DeL 19808. Best wishes are also in order for JOE McCOURT and his Februaiy bride, Peggy Murphy. Joe is nowrepresenting Anierican Hospital Supply and living in Milwaukee. 

Now for the militaiy report After two months of training in Biloxi, Miss., FRED DENNY is now serving as a second lieuteiumt in the USAF Security Service in San Antonio, Tex. DAVE DAY is fulfilling his Army reserve requirement and wonder­ing where Denny McClain went wrong. CHRIS ODENBACH was awarded a direct commission by the U.S. Army in Jaimary. At last report he was stationed at Ft Bdvoir, Va. FRANK DUNN is also currently employed (although somewhat less than willingly) by the U.S. Army. 
On behalf of all his dassmates, I wish to extend deepest sympathy to Rev. HUGH KEEPER on the death of his father. Fr. Hugh is now fiilfiUing budgetary control functions at St Benedict's Abbey in Atchison, K?n. Father is also active as assistant chaplain at St Benedict's and, as usual, enjoys working with the college students. 
This column covers much ground and some of the information may be somewhat dated. That situation can be easfly remedied by your correspondence. Be sure to keep us informed. 
Joe Cavato 4360 Maryland Ave. Saint Louis, Mo. 63108 


^.m^ 
"^m 

GRADUATE SCHOOLS 
AEROSPACE AND 
MECHANICAL ENONEERING 
The change in department name is one 
among many changes over the last few 
years in the engineering college. (Md grads 
(of '6S?) would hardly recognize us. 
In September, 1969, the departments of 
aerospace and mechanical engineering were 
merged into one department Several 
of the engineering science department 
staff also joined us, so that the new 
department faculty numbers some 32. 
Dr. K. T. Yang is chairman. 
Our industrial engineering program is 
active and we have the following to report: 
The hospital projects begun as a part 
of the lab work for M.E. 82 in 1966 
have progressed to the point where 
the Indiana Hospital Assn. has granted 
support for one graduate student, JOHN 
BOLIVAR M.S. '69 and is considering 
support for another. The technique of 
work sampling as modified by the self-
study idea has been used for several data 
gathering projects. For his M.S. thesis, 
John Bolivar took the same type data 
gathered during a study of ward clerks 
in several hospitals and mathematically 
modeled the activities of this nursing skill. 
The results will appear in the Industrial 
Engineering Journal in April, 1970, 
and may also be published in one of the 
hospital management magazines to which 
a less numerically oriented article has 
been submitted. The Indiana Hospital Assn. 
has modified and justified several of 
their management and personnel training 
suggestions for hospitals subscribing 
to the service. John Bolivar, incidentally, 
has since been drafted and is now in OCS 
and is schedided to be sent to the Corps 
of Engineers, U.S. Army. 
For those engineers who had projects at Memorial Hospital, we are still a part of their study staff and doing well. For those who worked on the nursing projects, one piece of sad news is the recent death of the director of nursing. Miss Florence Young. She was killed in a head-on auto crash near Niles, Mich. We were all sad and shocked to hear of this loss to both the hospital and the South Bend community. 
The continuing association with Memorial Hospital has included a preventive maintenance study with the maintenance department and a study of cafeteria and dish washing areas. The hospital administrators have indicated a continuing interest in associating with our industrial engineering students. We are most pleased to join with them in continuing the program to educate good I.E.S. 
In conclusion for this issue, the new department hopes to make this column of interest to all graduates of the mechanical engineering programs and of the aero­space program. We, in turn, would like to keep the "loop closed" and hear from you—^your work, your thoughts on our curricula and so forth. 
James Houghton Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION Greetings from the faculty and staff of the 
Members of the MBA school present a case analrds in dbe WoikJiop. In Ike dmss a team of students is responsible for the thorou^ anaty^ of m case problem in American Business, as veil as for recommending a solution to Ae probkm. 
MBA program. As usual, the year is rushing by with discussions already under way for the graduation banquet for the Class of 1970, under the able leadership of Jim Slowinski, president of the Executive Club. We have heard from a number of the Class of 1969, but not all. JOE CAVATO is anxious to have your addresses and news about your activities— business, social or otherwise. Joe is hoping to build a regular column of news items for the MBA group. 
From the vantage point of the school's 
position, there are a number of interesting 
items to report. Prof. Powell is on leave 
of absence during the present school 
year, serving as an executive intern with 
Ernst and Ernst in Chicago. He and his 
wife are living on N. Lake Shore Dr. 
and enjoying their "sabbatical" very much. 
He will be returning to the staff next year. 
The MBA program was recently given 
major publicity in the world-wide 
editions of the Army, Navy and Air Force 
Times. The article featured a full-page 
picture of the campus along with a long 
article about the program. The 
MBA Magazine has chosen ND to be one 
of its participating schoob. Rich 
Johnson is serving as contributing editor 
for ND. 

Dr. Dow has initiated a special self-
development project among a group 
of second-year men involving the economic 
problems of the Sioux Indians. The 
"industrial adviser" is Chief Redbird. 
Our Executive Lecture Series this year featured two outstanding speakers— Fletcher Byrom, president of Koniers, Inc., of Pittsburgh, and Donald Perkins, president of Jewel Companies, Inc., of Chicago. Both were outstanding, especially in the press conference session which we have switched to the afternoons, using the evenings for the formal public lecture. Don Perkins spoke on ghetto retaiUng, a talk that is being reproduced by the company under the ND banner for wide distribution in both business and academic communities. 
We have announced an MBA/JD program to go into effect in September, 1970, making^ possible the comi^etion of both degrees over a four-year period. 
Col. Frank Yeandel, retired from the Air Force last summer, has joined our group and is working closely with me in the first-year workshop, along with his teaching responsibih'ties in the under­graduate division. 
The contractor is completing work in Room 120, permitting both transmission and reception of tdeviskn prognminint. 
The equipment will indnde ottSne 
capability through WNDU with commerdal 
tdevisioii, e<hicationaI tdevsioii. hook-uis 
with major imiversities in IiMKaiia and 
taping and replay fadfities. 
We now have four computer coinoles 
in Room 27—one oottie and three off4nie 
machines, as wdl as a Bonker-Ramo 
telequote machine providing Bve coimection 
with aU the major stock exchanges 
and a leading conmioifity exchange. 
All the faculty join me in sending our 
wannest regards to yon and your wives. 
Let us hear from you and keep Joe Cavato 
up to date on your activities and 
location. By the way, Joe's introdoctory 
'69 MBA column is featured in the 
dass section of this issue. 
Dean John R. Malone 
MBA Program 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 
CHEMiSniY Prof. William N. Lipscomb from Harvard ddivered the Niemriand lectures in January. ReiDy lecturers for May are Prof. Roald Hofbnann from Comdl and Prof. Steven J. Angyal from the U. of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia. During the month of April, Prof. Owen S. Mills of Manchester U., England, lectured on x-ray diffraction. Dr. Frauds 
J. Castellino, from Duke U., joined the biochemistry faculty in Fd)ruary. Dr. Marino Martinez-Curion is researching at the medical school of the U. of Puerto Rico during the spring semester. 
The Radiation Laboratory collaborated in the organization of an International Meeting on Primary Radiation Effects inChemistry and Kology hdd in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in Mardi. Prof. M3ton Burton served as chairman of the meeting, many of the members of the laboratory partidpated and Dr. Robert R. Hentz ddivered one of the pienaty lectures. 
The foUowing completed the require­ments for the Ph.D. recently: JAMES CAVANAUGH, with Korddl Industries in Mishawaka; KEN CHANG, with the National Aerodynamics and Space Administration, Lan^y Researdi Center, Hampton, Va.; RAYMOND GER­MONPREZ, with Do Pont in Richmond, Va.; RICHARD HAROZ. at the Max Ptanck Institute for Experimental Medicine in Gottingen; WILLIAM IRWIN, wifli Miles Laboratories in Chicago; MOSES KALOUSTIAN, postdoctoring at UCLA; HENRY KIEFFER, with Cdanese in Charlotte, N. C; DAVID O'BRIEN, at 
Celanese Research Co., Summit, NJ.; 
R. D. RAO, researching at Vermont U.; CHRISTOPHER RHODES, postdoctoring at ND with Dr. D'AIeUo; Bro. DePORRES RASPITHA OSF, teaching at St. Francis CoUege, Brooklyn; LAWRENCE LILL-WIl ^ with Quaker Oats in Barrington, 111.; JOHN SEVENAIR, postdoctoring with Prof. GENE ASHBY '57 at Georgia Tech; and MARTIN SHOEMAKER, with Witco Chemical Corp., Sonnebom Division, Petrolia, Pa. 
Sr. MARGARET BRAULT RSM M.S. '65 received the Ph.D. in chemistry from Vermont U. last October. She is teaching at Trinity CoUege in Burlington, VL, and continuing some research at Vermont 
U. JOE DURKIN '64 was recenUy promoted to research chemist at the Beacon research labs of Texaco. BILL JOERN '67 is teaching at Wisconsin State 
U. at Whitewater. TOM HUEMMER 
M.S. '66 is director of research for O'Brien Paint Co. in South Bend. TOM MIRANDA '59 is with Whirlpool research laboratories in St Joseph, Mich. JOE MUCCINI M.S. '57 was recenUy appointed analytical group leader in Ashland Chemicals' R& D department, Ashland, Ky. BRUCE ROBERTS M.S. '68 is a captain in the U.S. Army Chemical Corps, engaged in surface chemistry research at Edgewood Arsenal, Edgewood, Md. WALT WELNA '68 is with 3M in Minneapolis. 
Bro. Columba Curran CSC 
Department of Chemistry 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
ENGLISH 
At the U. of Michigan, BERT G. HORN­
BACK Ph.D. '64 has received one of 
the five Distinguished Service Awards 
(with a purse of $750) presented to junior 
faculty members. Ohio U. Press has 
accepted for publication his book. The 
Metaphor of Chance: Vision and Technique 
in the Works of Thomas Hardy. And 
his play, A Game of Chess, was produced 
by a little theatre group, the Lord 
Chamberlain's players, in Ann Arbor 
last December. 
Sr. MARY PETRUS SULLIVAN Ph.D. 

'64, president of Catherine McAuley 
College, Rochester, N.Y., from 1965 to 
1969, has used her talents in many ways. 
In addition to fulfilling a teaching 
assignment at Marymount College, she 
has participated in a Head Start program 
in Harlem and taught at a rehabilitation 
center for drug addicts. Currently she is on 
the English faculty at Rochester 
Institute of Technology. 
PAUL JOHNSON, now teaching at Old Dominion U., Norfolk, Va., was the first of what promises to be an impressive number of candidates to "defend" a Ph.D. dissertation for June graduation. Now a member of the speech department at Kansas State U. is Sr. EUSTASIA MYERS CSJ M.A. '59. JAMES FLANAGAN Ph.D. '69, has moved from SL Mary's College to Monmouth College in New Jersey. At Purdue, MICHAEL YETMAN Ph.D. '67 received a faculty research grant from the Purdue Research Foundation. EDWARD E. POTTER 
M.A. '38, is professor of English at Eastern Michigan U., YpsUanti. 
"Contemporary Relevance and the Teaching of Literature" will be the con­ference topic for the national meeting of the College English- Assm to be-, held' 
jointly with' the- Indiana- CEAt a^ ND: 
Sessions will be in the Center for Continu­
ing Education on April ^ and 25. Prof. 
ANDREW SMITHBERGER M.A. '27 is 
local chairman of arrangements, and Prof. 
LOUIS HASLEY M.A. '31 is program 
chairman. Prof. Hasley's recent publications 
include a poem, "Seminaiy Mass," in the 
January, 1970, Catholic World and an 
article, "Humor in Literatufc: A Defini­
tion," in the CEA Critic, Fdiniaiy, 1970. 
To keep this column dive we need iiews 

about the professional and personal 
activities of our alumni You, the readers, 
are therefore encouraged to send in items 
for the next issue. We at ND think that this 
column serves a useful purpose. We hope 
that your response will indicate your 
thoughts. 
Robert M. Slabey 
Department of English 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46S56 
HISTORY 
Recent graduates will be sorry to learn 
that Mrs. HELEN GRIPE'S husband. 
Herbert, died suddenly of « heart attack 
in January. Our condolences to Helen. She 
would be glad to hear from some of you 
who have recently been ber classmates. 
RALPH WEBER from Marquette was down for a few days in January to do research in the ND archives on the cor­respondence of Joel Poinsett, an eariy I9th century American ambassador to Mexico. 
DAVID GARIBALDI, recently returned from England, has been living in South Bend for some weeks. He has completed his dissertation on late Victorian English educational legislation and hopes to receive his Ph.D. in June. 
LEE SMITH, one of the many stars of last summer's history department softball team, is at Georgia State College this year. 
Congratulations to CHARLES POIN­SATTE, head of the histoiy department at St. Mary's, whose book. Fort Wayne During the Canal Era, 1828-1855, has been published by the Indiana Historical Bureau. It was that organization's 1969 sdection as best book of the year in the field of Indiana state history. 
Some time ago I received a letter from BERNARD LALOR, formeriy of ND, Chicago, Michigan and Turkey. Bernard is now back in Chicago working on the second draft of his dissertation on the administrative structure of the Ottoman empire in the early 19th century. He is president of the Middle East Center Student Assn. of the U. of Chicago, and read a paper at the annual meeting of the Middle East Studies Assn. in Toronto last November. He reports that EDWARD HACKETT has been teaching and counsel­ling in Michigan City, Ind., this year and that BUD CHAPPIUS is at Chicaigo SUte College. When he last saw Bud, the latter was attempting to prepare a course bestowed on him at the last minute. Most of us have heard that song before. 
A year ago Profs. LEON BERNARD and FREDRICK PIKE were on leave in Europe doing research. Prof. Kke in Spain and Prof. Bernard in Paris. Both have returned this year. In the present year. Prof. JAMES CORBETT is on leave. In the fall semester. Prof. RAIMONDO LURAGHI from the U. of Genoa was here to ofier courses in Italian tustory. In the present semester, Msgr. JOHN TRACY ELLIS is a visiting professor in 
the department, offering courses-in-Americait 
an* general church history. Prof. JAMES 
SILVER, also on leave this year, is 
teaching at the U. of South Florida at 
Tampa, Fla. 
The history department basketball 

warriors finished the season by smashing 
five opponents. Though we were edged out 
by a few others, a computer predicted that 
we would make it to semi-finals of the 
NIT. Unfortunately, the selection com­
mittee was entirely from the East Coast, 
so we didn't get an invitation. Coach 
RICHARD WALTERS did not have to 
fine or suspend anyone during the season, 
although he did threaten to trade several of 
us for future draft choices. 
A new book by your correspondent has 

just appeared: Timeless Problems in 
History (ND Press). It setUes those global 
questions not disposed of in my last book. 
Towards a Better Understanding of History. 
Those of you who are teachers should 
make it required reading in all your classes. 
Others shoidd immediately storm the 
nearest bookstore, buy as many copies as 
you can carry and give them to all your 
friends. 
Bernard Norling 
Department of History 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 
LAW SCHOOL Robert P. La Russo (N.Y.; B.S., lona) won the final round in the Moot Court competition; Robert J. Quinlan (Wis.; B.A., St Thomas) was second. The finalists argued before Chief Justice (retired) Roger 
B. Traynor (Supreme Court of California), Judge Henry J. Friendly (Federal Court of Appeals, New York), and Judge LUTHER 
M. SWYGERT "ITL (Federal Court of Appeals, Chicago). 
New additions to the facidty include DAVID T. LINK '58, '61L, presenUy a tax partner in a large Chicago law firm; and Regis Campfield, an associate in a large Cleveland law firm and a graduate of the U. of Virginia School of Law. Link, who will be professor of law, was an attorney and administrator in the Intenud Revenue Service for five years. He is an expert in computer technology and chairman of the A.B.A. committee on law and technology. He was an editorial assistant on the 1960-61 Lawyer staff. Campfield, «iio will be visiting assistant professor of law, is an expert in estate planning and related areas; he formerly taught at the U. of Virginia. 
Mrs. Helen White, administrative assistant to the dean, retired from the Law School staff during the vacation; she will be in South Bend and with her family in Florida, learning, she says, for the first time in her life, to be "just" a housekeeper. Mrs. White has been re­I^ced by Miss Marianne Hojduns, who was until recently administrative assistant to the vice-president for academic affairs at St Mary's College. Placement duties will be handled by Miss Monica Jeffers, executive secretary of the Alumni Assn. 
Miss Judy Sailer is Dean Lawless' new secretary; die has been working elsewhere on the campus. Mrs. Carol Berkowitz resigned from the Law School staff to become a full-time wife and mother. She and her husband, Ed, adopted a new baby boy eariy in January. 
Christmas news from Prof. Robert E. Rodes Jr. in England was that his work on his three-volume history of Anglicanism is progressing well (at Oxford, with which he is afiHiated this year). The Rodes family was reported to be impressing their characteristic good example on subjects of Queen Elizabeth II. 
James Bernard Flickinger (Michigan, A.B., Aquinas College), is the new editor of the Noire Dame Lawyer, and Louis Anthony Stahl (NJ., B.A., Wheeling) is president of the Legal Aid and Defender Assn. Both were elected in March. 
JOHN J. HAUGH '66L, who practices in Portland, is the author of "Comparative Negligence: A Reform Long Overdue," in the December, 1969, Oregon Law Review. "Notes on Selective Service Reform: A Rough Draft," by Professor FRANK P. CIHLER '67L, of the St Louis law faculty, was in the Fall, 1969, St. Louis U. Law Journal. Dean William B. Lawless will be the speaker at UND Night dinner April 22 in the ACC on campus. 
In the Winter, 1970, Notre Dame Lawyer William E. Boyd, The Federal Consumer Credit Protection Act—A Consumer Perspective 
Thomas L. Shaffer '61L, Undue In­fluence, Confidential Relationship, and the Psychology of Transference David B. Saxe, Psychoanalysis, and the Credibility of Witnesses 
A comprehensive student note on municipal fair employment ordinances and commissions. 
Case comments on corporate insider liability (two comments); the California abortion decision; right to counsel in municipal-ordinance-violation cases; free speech and the federal anti-injunction act; and private conspiracies under the civil rights act Book reviews by Thomas L. Shaffer '61L, Nicholas Varga and James A. Durkin '59L. 
Tom Shaffer Law School Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 
MATHEMATICS JAMES W. WILSON M.S. '65, who did his course work at ND in 1960-61, is now head of the department of mathematics education at the U. of Georgia. Before going to Georgia, he taught at Kansas State Teachers College, went to Stanford U. where he received his Ph.D. in mathematics education and also worked on the research staff of the School Mathematics Study Group. In a short note he sent me he also included the following information about other alumni. 
JERRY P. BECKER M.S. '61 is assistant professor in the Graduate School of Education at Rutgers U. He received his Ph.D. in mathematics education at Stanford U. JAMES REEVES M.S. '63 is associate professor at Wesleyan College in Macon, Ga. He received his Ed.D. at the U. of Florida. 
ROBERT RICHARDSON M.S. '61 received his Ph.D. in mathematics from the 
U. of Florida. He is now assistant professor of mathematics at the Appalachian State U., Boone, N.C. DONALD SHRINER M.S. '61 is on leave from St Joseph's College in Emmitsburg, Md. and is doing graduate work in mathematics education at the U. of Maryland. CONRAD MARQUARD M.S. '61 is at Creighton U. in Omaha, Neb. 
George Kolettis 
Department of Mathematics 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
PHYSICS 
For a slight change of pace in this column, 
here are a few news items to start things off. 
ROBERT C. JACKLEVIC '60 (physical 
electronics), of the Scientific Labioratory, 
Ford Motor Co., gave one of our recent 
physics department colloquium talks. Bob's 
talk, entitled "Inelastic Electron TunneUng," 
was an excellent one. Incidentally, the 
experimental technique employed by Bob 
and co-workers in their inelastic electron 
tunneling studies proves to be an 
extremely sensitive method for the detection 
of trace amounts of impurities (inorganic 
and organic) in the laboratory atmosphere. 
Bob, wife Mary and two children, Maiy 
and Peter, live at 31345 Old Cannon Rd., 
Birmingham, Mich. 48010. Bob received 
his B.S. degree from Rockhuist College in 
1956, and then came to ND for his graduate 
studies in physics. He joined Ford's 
Scientific Laboratory staff as a research 
scientist in 1960 after completing work 
for his Ph.D. degree at ND. 
RONALD A. THIEL '60 (high polymer physics), of General Dynamics' Convair Division, was a recent visitor to the department. Ron was actually on a re­cruiting assignment but managed to spend considerable time visiting and renewing acquaintances in the department Ron, wife Dolores and three children, Paul, Michelle and Peter, live at 6212 Capri Dr., San Diego, Calif. 92120. Ron was one of our own undergraduate physics majors. He received his B.S. degree in '54, and stayed on at ND for his graduate work in physics. After completing requirements for his Ph.D. degree in '60, Ron joined General Dynamics/Convair as a design specialist His current interest is in the preparation of, and work with, thin film devices. 
FRANK E. JAMERSON '52 (nuclear physics) was recently named head of the 75-man physics department at General Motors Research Laboratories, General Motors Corp., Warren, Mich. 48090, according to the February, 1970, issue of Physics Today (page 97). Frank joined General Motors as a senior nuclear physicist in 1957. 
Now back again to the regular business of this column. 
DONALD J. SCHEIBER '57 (high polymer physics), wife Maxine and eight children, Michael, David, Susan, Victoria, Dona, Joseph, Elizabeth and James, live at 7419 Illinois Rd., Fort Wayne, Ind. Don received his B.S. degree in '53 from St Procopius College, and came to ND to continue his studies in physics. After receiving his Ph.D. degree from ND in '57, Don joined the National Bureau of Standards, Washington, D.C., as a staff scientist in the electricity division. He left the Bureau of Standards in 1962 to accept his present position as senior staff scientist with the Magnavox Co., Fort Wayne. 
BERNARD J. WEIGMAN '59 (high polymer physics), wife Joan and four children, Mary Joanne, Mark, Jane and John, live at 2709 Beechland Ave., Baltimore, Md. 21214. Bernie received his 
B.S. degree from Loyola U. (Baltimore) in '54 and began his graduate studies in physics at ND in the same year. 
After comf^ting work for his PhD. 
degree, Bernie Tetnmed to Loyola 
(Baltimore) where he is now professor and 
chairman of the deputment of i^iysics. 
The editor says that's all! 
Robert L. Anthony 
Deputment of Physics 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
SOCHMJOGY AND ANIHSOFOU)GY Kudos to Rev. GORlX»I M. IRVING OMI for sendins us two apidicants from Carleton U.. to BOB AMUNDSON for referring one of his former students at Loretto Heists and to JACK ANGUS, chairman of the deputment at Creighton U., for encouraging a priest friend to make api^cation for our graduate program. Competition for admission in September promises to be the keenest in many years. Owing to cutbacks in federally financed fellowship programs, low turnover in our student body and requests for additional assistance from incumbent students, monetary and tuition awards for incoming students win be scarce. At present it appears that we will accept about 10 of the 60 applicants seeking admission, although the acceptance figure is necessarily tentative. The fimding of any of several research proposals, which usually provide for graduate assistaiKe, coidd residt in a larger number of awards forfirst-year students. 
FRANK CIZON, head of the department at Indiana IT.'s burgeoning Gary campus, paid us a visit in early March to try to recruit one or two of our outgoing students for his staff. Reputedly the Gary Supplemental Income Project Frank is directing involves the highest simi of money ever awarded to a Polish sociologist including Florian Znaniecki. His recruitment efforts, we are happy to report were not hampered by student protesters. Another alimmus. Rev. PHILIP HAMILTON, is stiU trying to land a young sociology Ph.D. for Loras College. The position should prove most attractive to someone more committed to teaching than reseuch and publication. 
Our chairman. Dr. WILLIAM D'ANTONIO, has just begim a one-year stint as executive secretary for the Society for the Scientific Study of Religion. 
FRANK FAHEY was recently named head of ND's Office of Education Research. Previously he was associate and acting director of our Social Science Training and Research Laboratory. Prof. WILLIAM 
T. LIU, after a year's absence to supervise his AID-sponsored research project in the Philippines, has restmied command of the training lab. A special issue of the lab journal. Research Reports in the Social Sciences, is devoted to what is in these days a highly volatile topic —student participation in the governance of academic departments. The issue consists piimarily of papers written by Indiana, Purdue and ND graduate students for the 1969 Hooder Sociological Weekend, but also contains faculty-student comments on the papers. For a modest fee that will help cover printing and mailing costs, those readers interested in the issue may obtain copies by writing directly to the lab. 
Robert H. VasoU Department of Sodcdogy and Anthropology Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 
The next club function will be the Communion breakfast President Hold has been selected chairman and plans to hold the breakfast in the latter part of May or early June. 
Thomas F. Carey '55 
CINCINNATI 
The relative closeness of Dayton and Colimibus permitted several of our members to see the Fighting Irish in action against Ohio U. and Kentucky. 
TOM RHOADS '67 was again named titular head of the ND participants for the annual St Patrick's Day Parade. This event is fast becoming a tradition for many of our members, evident from the large turnout over the last two years. 
I forgot to mention in the last issue that we presented Moeller High School of Cincinnati with our annual football trophy. Moeller posted an undefeated season and ranked near the top in every state-wide poll. 
Our March 31st meeting was held at the Burger Brewery; following the regular business meeting, the 1969 football highlights were shown. 
Future events include an April dinner meeting, presentation of the annual Man­of-the-Year award in early May, and an election meeting the first week of June. 
J. Michael Cottingham '67 
Officers ol the ND CLUB OF DALLAS pre­sent Alumni Secretary James D. Cooney (center) mih the 20' x 30' ND banner that graced many of the club's functions during the Cotton Bowl feslirilies. 
DAYTON-SPRINGFIELD 
The ND alumni in the Dayton-Springfield area were treated to several opportunities to view the Fighting Irish basketball team in live action in late February and early March. After the ND-U. of Dayton game, approximately 500 ND alumni and friends attended a "non-victory" party sponsored by the club in the VIP Room in the U. of Dayton's new arena. Representing the Lfniversity at the party were BRIAN REGAN, MIKE JORDAN, ROGER VALDISERRI and JOE MULLIGAN. Later in the evening, Johnny Dee stopped by to chat with a few of his Dayton friends. Despite the results of the game, the party proved to be a great success. In addition, the proceeds from the sale of the game tickets added over S900 to the scholarship and loan fund. 
The initial response of club members concerning the publishing of a local ND 
CLUBS 
by the OHIO VALLEY NOTRE DAME 
BOSTON 
The Boston club hosted the New England Alumni Seminar at the Sheraton Boston in late November. Representing the club were CHUCK PATTERSON '47, BILL PIETRUSIAK '58, JACK CURTIN '62, JOHN McCULLOUGH '63, ART MURPHY '59 and MIKE OTOOLE '55. The club was cited by the representatives of the University for its progressive programs in recruiting and social action. 
The schedule for the social action pro­

gram at the Norfolk County Prison 
has been set up through December, 1970. 
Under the leadership of DAVE FAY '60, 
regular participants are GEORGE 
WILLIAMS '62, Bill Pietrusiak, JACK 
BAKER '53, JOE O'NEILL '67, ED 
GOGGIN '59, Jack CurUn, BILL REAGAN 
'58 and Art Murphy. 
The ND-B.C. hockey game was well attended by over 300 ND alumni and friends. JACK KARLE '56 and his com­mittee did a fine job, as did the Irish skaters against a more experienced 
B.C. team. 
Over 200 ND families turned out at the Marriott Motor Hotel to attend the annual Communion breakfast. Rev. JIM BURTCHAELL CSC '56 and Rev. JACK FITZGERALD '55 concelebrated the Mass and Lynn McCauley and her group provided the folk music. NICK BUONICONTI '62 of the Miami Dolphins joined Fr. Burtchaell as the speakers for the program. Jack Curtin '62 and DICK MURPHY '58 did a fine job on this one. 
The annual business sports meeting will be held in April and the UND Night at the Pops is scheduled for June. 
Mike O'Toole '55 
BUFFALO 
Much has happened over the past three 
months. The new year saw our exciting ND hockey team skate off with the cham­pionship of the Fifth Nichols School 
Invitation College Hockey Tournament at Dann Memorial Rink in Buffalo, Jan. 3. Prior to the victory, our alumni club 
Bob Sincavich '50, Francis Wallace '23, Lou Yeager '35 and Bill Mitsch '33 greet patrons before the ND Glee Club Concert in fVheeling, W. Va. The concert was sponsored 
CLUB. 
hosted a luncheon at the Buffalo Athletic Club. JACK ENDERS '53 was M.C. and Fred Shero, coach of the Buffalo Hockey Bisons, was the guest speaker. 
Our general meeting on Feb. 4 was conducted by Dr. MARV LAHOOD '57. His two guests from Buffalo State, Dr. Henry Richards, head of Afro-American studies, and Robert Hawkes, head of the 
S.E.E.K. program, gave those in attend­ance new insight into the black studies question. 
On March 1, our club received special recognition by being on a phone panel for the annual telethon for the Crippled Children's Rehabilitation Center in Buffalo. Local television coverage was complete for over 24 hours and the total contributed was over $270,000.00. 
Thanks also go out to ROBERT DRAJEM, Dr. DAVE VALAIK and JOHN LADUCA for their handling of our first annual student information night. They made sure that everything ran smoothly for JOE MULLIGAN from Admissions, as we had our first concerted effort to sell our University to the juniors in Western New York. 
John A. Allen '56 
CHICAGO 
ZIGGIE CZAROBSKI and GEORGE CONNOR were co-toastmasters at a testimonial lunch for Coach FRANK LEAHY at Johnny Lattner's Restaurant, March 12. The lunch was held to honor the coach for being selected to football's Hall of Fame. KEN SCHUSTER, president of the club, presented a plaque to Coach Leahy on behalf of all the members of the ND Club of Chicago, congratulaU'ng him. JOE McARDLE, BERNIE CRIMMINS, WALLY ZIEMBA and BOB McBRIDE, all who coached under Frank Leahy, were present at the lunch, as were Ara Parseghian, Joe Yonto and George Kelly from the present football staff. Many of Coach Leahy's former players were in attendance. The principal speaker was Pat O'Brien. 
alumni directory has been very en­
couraging and additional preliminary work 
has been authorized on the project. 
JOHN NEALON, newly appointed 
chairman of the club's recruitment 
committee, reported that Joe Mulligan 
recently spent an entire day in Dayton 
discussing ND's recruitment procedures 
with JIM BRITT, BILL McGUIRE and 
John, and laying the proper framework 
for an effective recruitment program in this 
area. Once additional plans and guidelines 
have been established, this project will 
attract large recruitment of qualified high 
school students from this area. 
Present plans now call for the UND 
Night Communion-Dinner to be held on 
the last Saturday in April or the last 
Saturday in May. Members are encouraged 
to attend a specially scheduled Mass 
preceding the traditional ND celebration. 
Other plans for the event are still being 
formulated at the writing of this report. 
Likewise, the arrangements for a garden 
cocktail party for all club members 
without charge are still in the planning 
stages. It is expected that this latter 
function will take place during the last 
two weeks of June. 
Details concerning these two activities 
will be furnished to club members by mail. 
William Seall '68 
DETROIT 
This fall the first recipient will be named to 
receive assistance from the Detroit 
alumni club's scholarship fund. The 
partial expense scholarship will be awarded 
to a Detroit area student, based on 
recommendations received from the 
University Office of Financial Aid. 
The new recruiting committee, chaired 
by TERRY KEATING, has started to 
interview Detroit area high school students 
for future enrollment at ND. The whole 
program is being conducted in conjunction 
with the University's Admissions Office. 
On April 20, at the Raleigh House, 
Detroit area alumni and friends are in for 
a real treat Dr. Kenneth McFarland, 
General Motors' famed public speaker, 
will highlight UND Night LOU BASSO, 
chairman for the night, reports that 
over 500 are expected for this annual 
stag outing. 
Gary W. Dillon '65 
FAIRFIELD COUNTY 
On Dec. 12, we gathered together 135 strong at the Convent of the Sacred Heart in Greenwich for our annual club Communion breakfast. Co-chairmen BILL REIDY '44 and JACK LAMBERT '52 were responsible for excellent accommodations. Rev. Joseph McCarthy from St Mary's parish in Greenwich provided the homily. 
On March 15, more than 100 club members and their wives attended our club's St Patrick's Day party. SARSFIELD FORD '55 handled all the arrangements. It was good to see GEORGE SCHWIND '51, the Hon. JAMES E. MURPHY 72 and R. JOHN CUNNINGHAM '50. 
JACK SLATTERY '49, LLOYD FORRESTAL '59 and BOB SINGEWALD '64 are heading up our committee on by-laws. These fellows are making an excellent contribution to the future success of our Fairfield County alumni club. We shall soon be sending out our big announcement on UND Night for Fairfield County. The club will be honoring its "ND Man of the Year." ROY JANN '48 heads up this selection committee and Bill Reidy and DON LEIS '44 are in charge of all arrangements for our UND Night dinner. 
Peter M. Hearden '37 
FLINT 

The 14th annual Communion breakfast of 
the ND Club of Flint was Dec. 7, 1969. 
Holy Mass was said by Rev. Godsil 
at St Matthew CaUioIic Church. 
Breakfast followed at Higgins Restaurant 
on Corunna Rd. 
JOSEPH P. MULLIGAN, assistant 
counselor in the Admissions Office at the 
University, spoke to 90 people about 
the University procedures of screening and 
scholarships. It was very informative 
and everyone enjoyed his speech. 
The highlights of the breakfast were the 
arrival of Santa Claus, played very effec­
tively by Harry McAra, a local attorney 
and the father of an ND student, 
and the drawing for the stadium blanket, 
in which only children could participate. 
The winner was Master Thomas Hill, a 
nephew of Victor George. 
The chairman of the Communion 
breakfast FRED MANSOUR, assisted by 
JACK KEAN and PAUL HUGHES, 
handled the affair in excellent fashion. 
William F. Minardo '32 
GREATER MIAMI 
The club held its first meeting for 1970 
on Feb. 12, and the first order of business 
was the presentation of trophies won at 
the club's Christmas golf tournament 
Dec. 27, 1969. The tournament was open 
to alumni and friends of ND. Trophies 
we're presented to FRED BERGER, 
BILL STREETER, TOM GORMAN, 
JIM SWEENEY, TOM HIGGINS, 
DENIS TURNOCK and JOHN KANE. 
The next order of business was the 
election of three directors to fill vacancies 
arising at the end of 1969. Denis 
Turnock and DON MURRAY were 
elected to three-year terms and John Kane 
was elected to a two-year term. 
The club held a St Patrick's Day party 
at Denis Turnock's house March 22, 
where films of the 1969 Fighting Irish 
football team were shown. 
Charies P. Sacher '61 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Over 450 people attended the scholarship ball on Feb. 13 at the St Pius X K of C. Ralph Flanagan and his band provided the music for this successful and enjoyable event As a result of the dance, over $1,000 was generated for use in the Indianapolis club's scholarship fund. 
A capacity crowd of over 15,000 was on hand Feb. 23 for the ND-Butler U. basketball game at Hinkle Field House in Indianapolis,' This was Butler Coach Tony Hinkle's last basketball game after 43 years at Butler. ND Athletic Director MOOSE KRAUSE presented Coach Hinkle a monogrammed blanket and an honorary membership in the ND Monogram Club. Many of the local alumni con­tributed personally to a substantial gift which was also presented to Tony. ND won the high-scoring contest and Austin Carr broke the fieldhouse record with 51 points. 
Lawrence A. O'Connor Jr. '65 
JERSEY SHORE 
At the UND Night in early April at the Shadowbrook, in Shrewsbury, new officers will be installed and the man-of-the-year award will be announced. 
The first club activity for 1970 was a Super Bowl cocktail party at the Holmdel Motor Inn. Following a short business meeting, about 30 members and guests enjoyed watching the game on color TV, while feasting on a buffet provided by co-chairmen BOB GIUNCO '57 and JOE McGOWAN '64. 
The third annual bus trip to Madison Square Garden for the ND-NYU basketball game was Feb. 19. Co-chairmen JOHN BOGAN '55 and JOHN WHITE '48 were aided by Bob Giunco and Joe McGowan, a busy pair. 
President CHARLES HESSE '57 and Past President DICK CORDASCO '50 hosted the annual freshman sendoff in September at the Red Bank Catholic High School. JIM GIBBONS was the campus speaker. 
The club is in the process of updating its roster. Members of the alumni in the area are urged to contact the club to be added to the mailing list The club's official address is P.O. Box 286, Asbury Park, NJ. 07712. 
Charlie Keller '54 
LANSING 

The Lansing club kicked off the new year with its annual business meeting and smoker on Feb. 27. The main item of business was election of new board members to replace MIKE BYRNE and DICK SCHNEIDER, whose terms had expired. Elected to two-year terms were JIM BOYD and CJ. HESS. Reelected to addiUonal two-year terms were BILL DOTTER­WEICH and PAT NAKFOOR. 
The second item of business was the election of club officers for the coming year. Retiring president DAVE O'LEARY announced the election of FRANK SIERAWSKI as president, PETER HASBROOK as vice-president. Bill Dotter­weich as secretary and Jim Boyd as treasurer. The new officers assumed their duties on UND Night, March 30, at the Knights of Columbus hall. 
The major event of the coming year will be the pregame party hosted by the club every two years on the eve of the ND-MSU game played in East Lansing. All alumni and friends are welcome to the event, traditionally held at the Jack Tar Hotel. If you are coming for the game, make plans to come in Friday night to help us prepare for our Saturday afternoon victory. 
Peter Hasbrook '60 
MILWAUKEE 
On March 11, the board met to outline the events calendar for the next few months, as well as to discuss and finalize various other matters. Coming events include a family sports night in May, the annual golf outing in July, a family picnic in August and the annual fall smoker. 
In addition, information for the directory was finalized and it should go to press shortly. 
David L. Roemer '60 
NEW ORLEANS 
The New Orleans club sponsored a seafood supper at the city's famous Fitzgerald's 
Seafood Restaurant Feb. 26. A few of the alumni on hand for boiled crabs and shrimp were JOE BEACH '35, AL VITTER '37, MIKE SMITH '40, ANDY PILNEY '36, ADOLPH FRANSEN 
•24, LARRY HENNESSEY '57, M.O. MILLER '66, WALTER BABST '66, LANCE BABST'64 and LEON REYMOND '64. Members, their wives, and guests were treated to tasty Louisiana. seafood and an entertaining film on the histoiy of professional football. 
The club is looking forward to UND Night and a smoker is scheduled for early summer. Plans for the trip to South Bend for the LSU-ND football game (Nov. 21) are now complete. The New Orleans contingent will stay at the new Ramada Inn in South Bend. 
Members continue to meet monthly for a luncheon on the first Wednesday of each month at 12:00 noon in the Bavarian Room of Kolb's Restaurant, 125 SL Charles Ave. Out-of-town alumni and guests are more than welcome to just drop in if they happen to be in New Orleans. 
The new admissions committee appointed for the New Orleans area is now in full swing. Members include ED SPORL '34, chairman, JOE DROLLA JR. '63, HARRY CLARK '63, WALTER M. BABST 
•66
 and M.O. MILLER '66. 

F.
 Joseph Drolla Jr. '63 


OHIO VALLEY On Jan. 28, the Ohio Valley NO Club sponsored the University Glee Club at the Capitol Music Hall in Wheeling, W. Va. The concert was well received by an en­thusiastic audience, consisting of ND alumni and boosters and local high school students. Three curtain calls were made for many of the numbers. After the per­formance, plaques were presented to BILL BUCH '60, club president and BOB SINCAVICH '50, chairman of the arrange­ments committee, by the Glee Club. The members of the Glee Club were then treated to refreshments at the Fiesta Room of Carroll Council No. 504, Knights of Columbus, and gave another impromptu concert After spending the ni^t at the McLure Hotel, the Glee Club left for the remainder of its tour. 
The performance and conduct of the members of the Glee Club did much to dispel the pessimism which existed in the minds of the "silent majority" about the younger generation. We hope we can sponsor the Glee Club again. 
The Glee Club concert was part of a campaign to raise funds for educational scholarships and laboratory equipment for Central Catholic High School. All proceeds above expenses were donated to the school. 
Bill Mitsch '33 
OMAHA The highlight of our events calendar for 
1970 was April 2—UND Night Coach 
FRANK LEAHY made the evening especially great with his accounts of life at ND. 
Plans are being made with the Kansas City Club to give ND tremendous backing at the Oct 17 ND-Missouri game at Colimibia. Out here in Big 8 countiy, the Irish will be in the limelight If the team is able to handle Missouri (we know it will), it might try the Big Red of Nebraska in a few years. Excuse the allegiance to Nebraska, but we do like to see the Comhuskers as high as No. 2, provided ND is No. 1. 
Our new slate of officers for the 1970-71 year is as follows: BOB BROWN, president; JIM BEMIS, vice-president; SKIP O'KEEFE, secretary; and MIKE DUGAN, treasurer. 
Tom Fortune '57 
PHILADELPHIA 

Election of the new officers and board of governors took place at our club meeting Jan. 27. The following were elected: GEORGE V. MITCHELL JR., president; THOMAS J. SHALLOW, vice-president; EDWARD B. BRODERICK, assistant vice-president; JOSEPH M. HILGER, treasurer; and FRANK CARVER, secretaiy. The new members of the board of govemois are ROBERT J. MITCHELL, JAMES KELLY, JOHN P. DONOHUE, PATRICK W. KITTREDGE and THOMAS J. SHALLOW. 
Plans are under way for our 1970 UND Night set for late April or early May. 
At the March 3 club meeting, LEN TOSE, our regional representative on the national board of alunuii, gave an enli^ten­ing talk on the most current piablems confronting the ND campus. About 40 club members attended this meeting, which proved to be interesting and most informative. 
Frank Carver '64 

ROME As this goes to print we will be doing a spritely sprint out to Rome's airport to welcome and assist the arriving alinnni Rome Escapadeis—all 180 of them—led by Lord JIM and Lady Marion ARMSTRONG. 
During a very "civilized" Roman Holiday of nine days, (to do Holy Week penance for the uncivilized who "do" the Eternal City in a sacrilegious two days) we will have the opportunity to orientate and entertain the lovely lot In our next dispatch, we will report on all "happenings" that happened, save the scandalous. 
Tliese sons and daughters of ND have come, enjoyed and departed Rome during the winter months: TOM COOKE '24 and wife, Jim Crowley 72, ED HARGAN '26, JERRY BERTHOLD '67 and wife SMC '67, JAMES CLAUSS '48, nephew of Rev. GREGORY LOMBARDO CSC, WILLIAM FOSTER '65, sister of LARRY MURCHAN '66, JERRY McKEEVER '31 (son Jerry '70) and wife, GEORGE SAVAGE '43 and wife, JOHN KUMINECZ '66, DOMINIC MOFFO '48, EUGENE TULLY '66 and wife, parents and grandmother of RANDOLPH SUTLIFF '67. 
Papal point: PAUL VI '60 holds public audience each Wednesday at 11 ajn. Tickets are not required, but are available at North American College, Via Dell' Umilta 30, upon arrival. The Holy Father also appears in public at his window in St Peter's Square each Simday noon to bless and speak. 
Roman ND hospitality: Our ND hospitality pad is open weekdays, noon to nine, at 82 Largo Brancaccio (td:730.002), near the central air-train terminal. Welcome! 
Vince McAloon '34 

SAN FRANCISCO BAY The monthly luncheon of the San Francisco Bay Area ND Cliib was at the St Francis Hotel, Feb. 13, and was highlighted by the appearance of FRANK-. 
LEAHY as guest speaker. Introductions 
were handled by PAUL LIMONT '48, who played on Coach Leahy's 1941 and 1947 teams. Coach Leahy reminisced with the more than 60 members and their guests 
about his years at ND. The club extends its sincere thanks to Coach Leahy for his generosity. 
The club's admissions committee reports that it has been making an active effort to assbt eligible high school students from the Bay Area in gaining admission to the University. JIM DONOHUE '48, chairman of the admissions committee, informs us that to date, several qualified boys have been admitt^ for the fall semester. An information night for all interested high school students was scheduled for April 7, at the St Francis Hotel. 
JOHN HALTER 'SO acted as chairman of this year's UND Night This year's dinner was at the Olympic Club Lakeside, April 9. A panel of speakers, including Rev. Uhelan, Don Kommeis, professor of world government and a University student participated in the planned portion of the evening program. 
Gerald C. Smith '61 
VIRGINIA The ND club and its officers were very pleased to host a reception Feb. 28 in honor of Joe Theismann. The ND quarterback's visit to Richmond was prompted by a desire to visit a hometown chtun, who currently is matriculating at Virginia Commonwealth U. The reception was held at the exclusive Chalet Bam in the Bull and Bear Club atop the Fidelity Building. The reception followed a special dinner attended by Joe and the local club officers, and was open to all friends of ND, as well as the club members. 
On the following moming, the annual Communion Mass and breakfast was held at St Paul's Church and school. The guest speaker was Joe Theismann, of course, and this insured another fine turnout to cap off the weekend of events. The good fortune of the ND club in obtaining such a distinguished speaker was due to the efforts of EDDIE ECK and FRANK WALL­MEYER, our club president An ex­cellent time was had by all at both events, especially the youngsters, and particularly the young lady who won the coveted door prize—a football autographed by the scrappy Irish quarterback himself. 
Our sincere thanks to Joe for taking the time from his personal trip to share a portion of contemporary ND life with 
Frank Carpin '62 
WESTERN WASHINGTON Club members gathered at the home of Dorothy and DICK NEIMER on March 14 to celebrate St Patrick's Day. The event was sponsored by the wives' Auxiliary Club. 
Thanks go to outgoing auxiliary President Rose LYONS, officers Dorothy Neimer and Kathy MAY, and the phone gang, Jackie BERG, Helen SMITH, Sheran O'BRIAN, Joyce ROGERS and Fran FLOR. 
They will be succeeded by newly appointed President Brenda ADAMSCZAK, Vice-president Maiy DAILEY and Secretary Fran Flor. 
Bill Herber '58 

ON RECORD 
ENGAGEMENTS Miss Pat RieUy to HERB GALLAGHER '67. Miss Susan Bradley to THOMAS R. CURTIN '68L. Miss GAILFRED A. ROLLER M.A. '68 to JAMES H..SWEErLAND M.A. '68. Miss Paulette Wyman to GEORGE T. BALICH '69. Miss Joan Marie Hembrecbt to JOSEPH R. MERCURIO '69. Miss Maiy Jo Sterner to MICHAEL PHELPS '69. 
MARRIAGES Miss Cecilia M. Schmuttenmaer to THOMAS J. MURPHY '63, Dec. 6. Miss Linda Suzanne Hall to CARL T. MAGEL '67, Match 21. Miss EUzabeth Ann Beck to TIMOTHY K. CORMANY '69, SepL 27. Miss Norma Jean Sendek to JOHN F. O'HARA '69, Dec. 27. Miss Janice Blue to JOSEPH D. VACCA '69, Feb. 14. 
BIRTHS Dr. and Mrs. AUGUSTUS FALCONE 'S3, a son, Gianpier, Jan. 19. Mr. and Mrs. STEVE BARRY '60, a daughter, Bridget Eileen, Nov. 18. Mr. and Mrs. DAVID F. BERTRAND '62, a son, Mark David, Feb. 14. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN W. CROWE '62, a son, Timothy, March 14. Mr. and Mrs. GARY HORDEMANN, 
M.A. '62, a girl, Lisa, Jan. 22. Dr. and Mrs. SERGE MARTINEZ '64, a son, Anthony. 
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL DAVID TSCHETTER '65, a son, Martin Benjamin, Feb. 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES C. McGANN '66, a daughter, Bemadette, Dec. 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH A. CHRISTENSON '67, a girl, Elizabeth Susan, Feb. 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. RANDOLPH A, SUTLIFF '67, a son, Thomas Fredrick, Dec. 3. 
SYMPATHY PAUL B. BELDEN JR. '32 on the death of his father, Paul Belden Sr., Feb. 13. 
CHARLES L. HUISKING JR. '34 on the death of his father, Charles Huisking Sr., Jan. 17. 
WILLIAM W. HUISKING '34 on the 
death of his father, Charles Huisking Sr., 
Jan. 17. 

WILLIAM H. BELDEN '36 on the death 
of his father, Paul Belden Sr., Feb. 13. 
GEORGE W. CANNON JR. '36 on the 
death of his mother, Irene, March. 
EDWARD P. HUISKING '37 on the 
death of his father, Charles Huisking Sr., 
Jan. 17. 

RICHARD V. HUISKING '39 on the 
death of his father, Charles Huisking Sr., 
Jan. 17. 

THOMAS E. O'MALLEY '39, on the 
death of his brother, CHARLES F. 
O'MALLEY '39. 
WILLIAM J. CANNON '40, on the death of his mother, Irene, March. JOHN C. FINNERAN '40, on the death of his mother, Clementine, Feb. 19. DONALD McNALLY '42 on the death of his mother, Feb. 20. Rev. THOMAS F. McNALLY CSC '48 on the death of his mother, Feb. 20. 
GEORGE H. MCCARTHY JR. '49 on 
the death of his father, George H. 
McCarthy, March 17. 
JOSEPH D. WALLACE '49 on the death of his mother, Bridget GEORGE J. JANSEN '51 on the death of his wife, Patricia, Jan. 13. JOHN D. O'NEIL '51 on the death of his father, Roy J. O'Neil Sr., Dec. 1. LAWRENCE McNALLY '54 on the death of his mother, Feb. 20. JOHN THELEN '55 on the death of his wife, Janet Jan. 22. JAMES L. EGRY '60 on the death of his father, C. Robert Egiy, March 16. THOMAS J. GREENE '60 on the death of his father, Philip J. Greene, Jan. 31. HERBERT R. BLACK JR. '64 on the death of his mother, Josephine, Nov. 21. 
JAMES E. FAGAN JR. '65 on the death of his father, JAMES E. FAGAN '34, Feb. 2. 
EDWARD A. EISWIRTH '66 on the death of his brother GEORGE P. EISWIRTH '69, Jan. 25. 
PAUL TOBIN '67 on the death of his father, PAUL G. TOBIN "28, Feb. 4. STEPHEN CASSETTA '69 on the death of his father, James V. Cassetta, Jan. 13.. 
DAMIEN F. CZARNECKI '69 on the death of his father, Anthony F. Czamecki, Jan. 13. 
MICHAEL G. DAVIS '69 on the death of his father, George F. Davis, Feb. 6. 
DEATHS 

ERNEST E. L. HAMMER '04, LLD '54. 
March 10. He is survived by his fomily, 
900 Grand Concoune. Bronx, N.Y. 10451. 
JOHN R. RAILTON "12, January, 1970. 
LOUIS W. REPS '13, Sept S of a 
sudden illness. He is survived by his sons, 
Louis Jr. and John. 
EDWARD MANNING McLAUGHLIN 
'18, Dec. 23. He resided at Glen Hill 
Convalescent Center, Danbury, Conn. 
LOUIS E. WAGNER '18. Dec. 22. He 
is survived by bis widow, 17 Wood St, 
Danbury, CMm. 06810. 
Rev. THOMAS P. GAYNOR OP '19, 
1969. 

ROE S. TAPPAN '19, Jan. 5 of an apparent heart attack. He is survived by his widow, R.R. 3, Box 280, Bonifay, Fla. 32425. 
EUGENE J. OTOOLE 70, March. He is survived by his widow, 858 Lane Dr., St Joseph, Mich., and a son EUGENE JR. '45. 
GEORGE E. MERIDITH '21. March 25. 
1969. He is survived by his widow, 21 
Eglantine, Pennington. NJ. 08534. 
MICHAEL E. FAHEY "22. Dec. 22. He is survived by his widow, two dau^ters and a son, 2810 Crosby Ave., Pittsburg Pa. 15216. 
JOSEPH H. FARLEY "22, Jan. 7. He is survived by his widow, 721 N. Bamsdale, LaGrange Park, III. 60525, and two daughters, Lucile Fisher, and Colette McConnell. 
RAYMOND J. KEARNS '22, Dec. 20. He is survived by his family, 1642 S. Sth St, Terre Haute, Ind. 47807. 
WILLIAM H. HASKINS '23, Feb. 25. He is survived by his widow. 3534 84th St, Jackson Heights. LJ., N.Y. 11373, and a daughter. Mrs. Joan Ripp. 
Bro. OWEN LYNCH CSC '24, Jan. 18. He is survived by his sister, Mrs. Thomas Wekh. 
JOHN N. STANTON '24, Oct 26. He is survived by his son, James F. Stanton. 
ROBERT A. DDCON '25. March 4. He is survived by his widow. 5771 E. Second St, Tucson, Ariz. 85711. 
JAMES W. WRAPE '25, March 17. He is survived by his widow, Gregnon Farms, CoUieiville. Tenn. 38017. 
CLETUS J. HOOLEY -26, Sept 6. 
EDWARD E. O'BRIEN '27, Feb. 16. He is survived by his son, William M. O'Brien, 103 Beckwith Ave., Endwell, N.Y. 13760. 
EDWARD J. CONLIN "28, Feb. 7. He 

is survived by his family, 1544 Vincennes 
Ave., Chicago Heights, III. 60411. 
Sr. MARY ETHELBERT HALEY SC, 

M.A. 78. 
VINCENT J. HENRY "28. 
PAUL G. TOBIN 78, Feb, 4. He is 

survived by his widow, 1182 Cedar Ave., 
Elgin, III. 60120, a son, PAUL '67 and two 
daughters. 
FRANCIS M. MESSICK '30, Dec. 30, after a brief illness. He was branch manager for Associates in Troy, Mich. He is survived by his widow, 2400 Somerset Blvd., Apt 102, Troy, Mich. 48084, and two sons. 
Bro. MARTIN JOHN (JOHN MATTINGLY SPALDING) '31, M.A. '40, March 8. 
THOMAS J. GATELY '32, Jan. 8. He is survived by his brother, Al Gately, 1420 18th St, San Pedro, Calif. 
GERALD RICHARD HODGES '32, Dec. 29 of an apparent heart attack. He is survived by his widow, 1246 Hillcrest Rd., South Bend, Ind. Also surviving are two sons and two daughters. 
DANIEL B. CONLIN '33, Sept 28, 1967. He is survived by his widow, 1158 Higley St, Toledo, Ohio 43612. 
ROBERT J. FLINT '33, Jan. 17. 

JOHN B. NICHOLS '33, Feb. 26. He is survived by his widow, 5550 N. Lake Dr., Milwaukee, Wis. 53217. 
S. JEROME ROACH '33, Feb. 9. He is survived by his widow, 234 E. Glenguile Ave., Kalamazoo, Mich. 
GERALD J. ANDRES '34, Jan. 26. He is survived by his widow, 48 Heatheihurst Dr., Pittsford, N.Y., and by sons Gerald, Paul, Donald and Richard and dau^teis, Judy, Maureen and Theresa. 
JAMES E. FAGAN '34, Feb. 2. He is survived by his widow and sons, James, Patrick and John at 37 Kean Rd., Short Hills, NJ. 07078. 
J. BENJAMIN BEYRER '35, Nov. 18 while studying at the London School of Economics. He is survived by his widow, 38 Princeton Ave., Manchester, Conn. 06040. 
JOHN P. FITZPATRICK '35, Feb. 10. He is survived by his widow and two sons, John and Peter, 6121 N. Kedvale Ave., Chicago, 111. 60646. 
RICHARD W. DICE 37, March 9. He is survived by his widow, 19 Bailey Rd., Park Forest III., three sons, Richard, John and Michael and a dau^ter, Mrs. Rosemaiie Cowger. 
EDWARD J. CONDON '38, March 5. He is survived by his family, 1067 S. Thompson Dr., Bay Shore, N.Y. 
CHARLES F. O'MALLEY '39, Dec. 4. He is survived by his mother, two dau^ters and a sister of 1013 Richmond S. E., Albuquerque, N.M. and a brother THOMAS E. O'MALLEY 39. 
JOHN A. KOTTE '40, March 13. He is survived by his widow, 69 N.E. 103nl St, Miami, Fla. 33153. 
JOHN J. CLARK '43, February. He is survived by his widow, 2533 Glenwood Ave., Toledo, Ohio, 43610. 
LLOYD C. ROHRS '43, Dec. 28. Capt Rohis was commanding c^cer of the 
U.S. Naval Hospital, Naples. He is 
survived by his widow. 
THOMAS JOHN SEEDORFF '46. 

THOMAS E. ROUGEUX '49, June 28. He is survived by his widow, 1423 Westmont Dr., Anaheim, Calif. 92801. 
ROBERT E. MURPHY '50, Jan. 1. Active in many local civic aS^rs, he is survived by his widow, three dau^ters, and two sons, 108 West St Galena, IIL 61036. 
Sr. ANNA MARIA McDONAGH M.S. '53, Dec. 25. 
GEORGE M. HADYKA '54, Jan. 18. He is survived by his sister, Mrs. Olga Kita, 53 Kittery St, Milfoid, Conn. 
Rev. RALPH G. LUCZAK CSC '54, Feb. 22. He is survived by his stepmother, Mrs. Leona Luczak of Bay City, Mich., three brothers and two sisters. 
DENNIS P. MADDEN '62, Feb. 8 in an auto accident He is survived by his widow, a son, Dennis Patrick and a daughter, Maureen Celia of 300 D. Green Rd., Manchester, Conn. 06040. 
RICHARD T. MORRISSEY '62, killed in Vietnam in August He is survived by his parents, 220 Anchor Way, Uniondale, L.I., N. Y. 11553. 
JOHN C. MEAGHER JR. '65, July 25, while water skiing. He is survived by his widow, a son and his parents, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN C. MEAGHER SR. 79. 
TERRANCE P. RYAN '65, Jan. 1. in Vietnam. During a routine fligbt his jet malfunctioned, crashing into the Gulf of 
Tonkin. He is survived by his parents, 
Mr. and Mrs. J.D. Ryan, 1 Pembroke Rd., 
Summit N. J. 07901 
RICHARD J. ROUGHGARDEN '66, Sept 14. He was killed in Vietnam by an accidental discharge of a fellow officer's weapon. He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. FJ. Roughgarden, 492 Lincoln Ave., Hawthorne, NJ. 07506. 
ALAN W. VALKENAAR '66, Dec. 14, in an auto accident He is survived by his widow, 2900 S. Holly Ave., Sioux Falls, S.D. 57105 and his parents and sister. 
Lt JOHN L. ROCHE '68, Dec. 15, killed in action. He is survived by his parents, 1338 Comstock Ave., Los Angeles, Calif. 90024. 
FREDERICK A. SCHWARTZ '68, Jan. 11, in an auto accident in Swaziland where he was a member of the Peace Coips. He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. FREDERICK SCHWARTZ 37, brothers, Charles, JOHN '66, AJ. and Norbert and sisters, Mary Eleanor, Ethel Mary, and Mrs. James Wallert His family resides at 130 S. Front Salina, Kan. 
GEORGE PETER EISWIRTH '69, Jan. 25. He is survived by his parents, a brother EDWARD '66, and two sisters, 1750 Walnut Berkeley, Calif. 
LANCE A. RIEMERSMA '69, Dec. 29, in an auto accident He is survived by his widow, 2719 Byron Center Rd., Wyoming, Mich. 49509. 
NATIONAL ALUMNI DIRECTORY 
Due to unusual production delays caused by the monumental task of producing the National Notre Dame Alumni Directory, the con­tracted firm, Rockwell Clancy Co. of Chicago, advises that purchasers should receive their copies shortly after the June 25 production date. Apologies are offered by both the firm and the Association for this delay. 
ALVMNI SPEAK 

Everybody's getting into the aet 
By James D. Cooney 
Exective Secretary, Alumni Assoc. 
An old New Yorker cartoon de­
picted a harried secretary rushing into 
a '20's board room to announce: "Sir, 
a man has just flown the Atlantic 
alone!" "So?" said the dour chairman, 
"Let me know when a conmiittee's 
done it!" Perhaps no human enter­
prise has been more maligned than 
the committee, ad hoc, pro tern, or 
standing. Its only significant contribu­
tion to the history of man has been 
compromise. But perhaps like work 
and play, it has its place . . . 
When the governance of the Uni­versity was revised in May of '67, granting legal title and control of Notre Dame to a reconstituted Board of Trustees, some considered the action a C.S.C. sell-out; others welcomed it as a move away from the century-and-a-quarter tradition of autocracy at ND. Whatever it was deemed to be at the time, the era of authority dispersion had hit ND. A new faculty manual was approved that same weekend, and that document gave birth to the Faculty Senate. Both events presaged a larger measure of faculty self-determination and "voice" at ND. The Academic Council was enlarged and re-charged, seating elected members of the faculty. The Student Life Council came into being a short year later. That revolutionary concept (for ND) enables a body of students, faculty and administrators to legislate program and policy in matters affect­ing students' non-academic life. 
Even the Alumni Board expanded, creating full representation on the Association's governing body for the first time. Establishment of the 
COLUMN 

Free eity? 
By Richard W. Conklin Director of Information Services 
"Nutting for Rector of an Experi­mental College. Hesburgh for President." 
Alumni Senate brought hundreds more alumni into intimate contact with the University. And, this year, the University Forum was convened. Composed of four members each from six constituencies: trustees, administration, faculty, students, graduate students and alumni; the forum is still formulating its identity but suffice to say, the body will concern itself with issues of vital concern to the constituency. 
The residence halls now possess separate constitutions, their own governments and judiciaries, charged with the establishment and mainten­ance of hall rule, regulation, program and order. Without exception, all of these groups feel entitled to a piece of the ND pie. Each of them expects its voice to be heard. Most of them have fairly effective articulation. But all seem, at the moment, to be searching for their identities—^for the precise role they are to play in ND's growth and development. It's an agonizing process, but a necessary one, if the inevitable trends set in motion a few years ago are to achieve perfection. 
This dispersion of authority, control, and voice is native not only to ND. Most major universities are undergoing the same experience, with varying degrees of success. College presidents today are the men caught in the middle of these diverse forces. Some have found the heat unbearable, and at least 30 presidents of major institutions have gotten out of the kitchen the past three years. A recent New York Times article (March 15) indicates that "Last year, the average tenure of presidents among the 48 institutions that are members of the Association of American Universities —generally accepted as the academic leaders of the United States—^was 
5.9 years. In 1960 it was 7.4 years." The Times points out that a president who has two years experience in ofike now has greater seniority than half his colleagues in the Association. That fact probably accounts for the 
That's the way my button reads in the chancellor-president debate de­scribed elsewhere in this issue. 
My personal knowledge of Dr. Willis Nutting is limited to a weekend student-faculty-administration dia­logue, where I was impressed with his openness and thoughtfulness. So I read The Free City, the book in which he outlines his "radical pro­
reason why most students (and 
faculty, and alumni) think they can 
run univeraities. Theie are nK»e job 
openings in the field! 
One wcmders at the raison d'etre 
of these departures. While student 
dissidence is an obvious thcKn in every 
administrator's side (and, you can 
include the sides of most faculty and 
many students), it seems imfdausible 
to suggest that distinguished educators 
have turned tail and run because of 
long hair, placards, and buttocks on 
administrative carpets. The extremity 
of dissidence in isolated cases has 
been the cause, agreed. But there is 
something deeper here. ClaricKerr, 
ex of California says "there is a lot of 
negative power on the campus." 
James Perkins, ex of Cornell says 
"Everyone wants to talk, talk, talk," 
and, that the modem day university 
is "anarchic at heart" Others claim 
they have been emasculated of their 
power. 

There are those who considered the presentations and discussi(Mis at the recent University Forum meeting as critical of and affrontive to the University adminstration. We didn't see it that way. We did hear graduate students argue for first-class citizen­ship at ND, a faculty member plead for a restoration of the University's Catholic character, a student call for a restructuring of the top leadership into a chancellor-president arrange­ment, allowing for a sharing of administrative burdens, other students urge an emphasis on the fine arts here, and alumni asking for priority atten­tion to the quality of residence hall life and the role of the priest at ND. Perhaps some lusty language was used, and some facts Mrere out of focus. And granted, ND's leadership is concerned about and moving in some of these areas. But to suggest that the whole affair was an exercise in polemics and negative criticism bares some real hypersensitivity in the upper echelons here. 
When you open the floodgate, you've got to expect a little spray. 
posal for overhauling the machinery of liberal education." 
The book has a number of ante­cedents, ranging ftom the author's own experience with Oxford's tutorial system (a debt acknowledged in an "Afterword") to Robert Maynard Hutchins' iimovations as the U. of Chicago's president between 1929 and 1945 (a man curiously never men­
tioned). There are other influences, 
such as an unmistakable touch of 
the 19th-century transcendentalist 
commune in the author's learning 
community and a kind of Platonic 
philosopher-king attitude toward the 
way a democratic technocracy makes 
decisions. 
I am sympathetic to many notions 

in Nutting's Free City. Its defense 
of the generalist scholar against in­
roads of the narrow specialist, its 
distinction between schooling and 
education, its student-centered, per­
sonalist emphasis, its reservations 
about lock-step, course-credit cur­
riculums — all are attractive positions. 
But to make this book bear the burden of the Nutting-for-President case is a misreading. Nutting himself admits that his proposal must be fashioned from scratch and carries with it a definite numbers restriction— he uses the maximum figure of a 200­member learning community. And numbers are crucial. The Oxford­Camb'ridge tutorial system is enticing, until one realizes that the United States has more blacks in higher edu­cation than England has total citizens in universities. The analogy is in­structive, because minority applicants might well be the first denied admis­sion to the Free City simply because 
STUDENT VIEW 

The impossible task 
By William J. Mitchell '71 
The current state of the presidency at 
ND is at the same time a tribute to 
a man and an indictment of an office. More so than any other man. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC 
has given of himself to make the term 
"great Christian university" more than 
a cliche to be tossed around academic circles. In his 18 years in office, he has focused his efforts on making ND academically respectable and socially prophetic to the secular society it shares in. The words "great Christian university" remain a cliche at ND, though, because Fr. Hesburgh Is finally incapable of the impossible. The attempted marriage in one man of teacher and ambassador demanded by the present structure is on the rocks. 
they come without the sophisticated reasons necessary for membership in this self-determining intellectual community. Minority group members view higher education, at least In­itially, as a vehicle of upward-social mobility (as did representatives of lower middle-class white ethnic groups who preceded them In the matriculation line). The Free City concept of education is of necessity elitist. 
ND has attempted to Incorporate some of the best proposals of Nut* ting's Free City in the creation of options within the traditional system, including Nutting's own General Pro­gram, the Collegiate Seminar, the Collegiate Scholars and the Commit­tee on Academic Progress. Even at that, the University should be will­ing, finances permitting, to set up an experimental college, where a self-selective group of teachers and stu­dents could attempt to create srane­thing like Nutting's Free City. The Academic Council has endorsed this experimental program In principle, and It is where Willis Nutting can do the best good — as a leader and teacher in as unstructured a teach­ing dialogue situation as possible. 
Two last observations: 
1) The whole chancellor-president 

Through his national leadership In education and civil rights, he has made the public life of the University an impressive one. It Is a life that must now be reassessed In terms of life on campus. "A life spent entirely in public," Hannah Arendt has written in The Human Condition, "in the presence of others, becomes, as we would say, shallow. While It retains its visibQity, it loses the quality of rising into sight from some darker ground which must remain hidden If It is not to lose its depth In a very real, non-subjective sense." 
As is evidenced by the $800,000 annual deficit, ND pays a hi^ price for its status as a private Institution. ND is private because Its reason for being, i.e., learning, is essentially a private activity. It goes on among students and teachers yibo share their lives together. It Is the most important thing that happens at ND and Fr. Hesburgh has not been among .the participants. He Is In the position of leading and directing a group of persons with whom he shares almost nothing concrete. Fr. Hesbur^ has been an admirable ambassador, but idea has been tried, and presumably found wanting, by at least a few of the nation's best universities. Hutchins himself was not replaced in 1951 when resigned as chancellor of Chi­cago. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology stands out as the only first-rate university currently using the double-leader system, and it is interesting to note that none of the five Ivy League schools which recent­ly replaced presidents (Brown, Co­lumbia, Cornell, Dartmouth and Pennsylvania) followed the MIT model. 
2) Dr. Michael Novak, who has tried to implement some Free City-type Ideas at the State U. of New York's cutting-edge campus at Old Westbury, recently opened a Com­monweal article with these remarks: "The words 'education reform' are everywhere in the air. But the radical movement, if it has not disintegrated under its own passion for purity and in its own moral self-righteousness, may well contribute far less to education than anyone had dreamed. It seems clearer now that many young people among these bright and sensitive ones in whom so much hope was placed, do not want to reform educa­tion but to escape from it." 
it Is too much to ask of any man to 
be a good president as well. 
The morale of students and teachers continues to decline in the direction­less state of an abstract and absent presidency. The presidency at ND is a self-created monster; Fr. Hesburgh has said many times that he has nothing but pity for whoever might succeed him in the job as it is. Is it reasonable to expect that the office as Fr. Hesburgh has defined it (a multi­roled round-the-clock dedication) would or could be filled by any other man? Structures become dangerous to institutions when they become finally dependent on present personnel —which is currently the case with the presidency at ND. 
The time to change things is before the campus community crumbles any more. This is a learning communi^ that needs a teacher for a leader. WUlls Nutting, recognized by students and faculty from left to right as ND's best teacher. Is the best man for president Fr. Hesburgh, acknowl­edged Internationally as ND's best ambassador of liberal education, is the best man for chancellor. 
ALUMNI ASK 
JOIN THE aUB 
For the first time since I have been 
receiving the ALUMNUS, I am 
proud to say I am part of the 
ND alumni. It is especially gratify­
ing to read such openminded letters 
from the "old" alumni of 1914 
and 1928. 
Unfortunately, there still are those 
alumni who insist on remaining 
narrow-minded. All seon to scream 
about how un-Christian and 
un-CathoIic ND and her students 
are—perhaps they should look these 
words up in a dicti<Miaty! 
As my good friend, Gordon Hunt, said in his letter in the January-February issue, these old grads "are doing an excellent job of turning hope into hate." And, lo and behold. Rev. Charles Minck '54—a member of the cloth—is at the forefront. How can any human being in good conscience say that a participation in the Mass by one who has renounced his faith is a "far worse crime in the eyes of God than the mere bodily death of 500,000 soldiers and civilians." Mere bodily death? Do not these people have souls in your theology. Father? Is God so evil and cruel as to weigh a renouncer's Mass participa­tion as more evil than killing? Father says he is not condoning "mere bodily death"—but he sure is trying awfully hard. It is all especially sickening to i«alize he is a priest allegedly preaching love and Christianity. 
If this is what ND ttimed out in 1954, can alumni really feel justified in being sick about today's ND? Perhaps they should think more about the old ND and be thankful for the new! 
Peter M. Nardi '69 Box 595, Colgate U. Hamilton, N.Y. 13346 

IIISH THEOLOGY 
It's a sad, sad day when a Murphy has to ask a Sullivan to please take down the cross of Anti-Christ and put back the cross of Christ in its rightful place. Your forefathers 
and mine starved and died for that 
cross and for 700 years struggled 
to save it for what it means to 
all mankind. 
I almost had a heart attack when 
I saw 0 displayed on the back of 
the ALUMNUS, the magazine with 
a Tom Sullivan, managing editor. 
It wasn't bad enough to read the 
account of the horrible prostitution 
of the Mass that occurred on 
the campus of Our Lady in your 
last edition. 
You must have been very short 
of material when you stooped to 
photograph that stamp someone 
took the trouble to make in the snow 
and added "Jack Frost leaves his 
mark?" when it should read, Satan 
was here and is here. 
For God's sake do something in reparation and do it quick. How saddened ND must be. 
Marie C. Murphy M.A. '69 
241 E. 202 St 
New York, N.Y. 10458 
lECAU '4t 

As one who has been proud to be a 
member of the "silent majority," 
I would like to momentarily leave 
this group to voice my objections to 
a January. 1970, ALUMNUS 
letter by one Joe Wilcox '48. 
I resent the fact that he so readily attacks the ND priests of the forties and winds up his statement with a preference for a Bayard Rustin over a Rev. Hugh O'Donnell. 
If the men and University life of that era were so unbearable to his delicate sensibilities, why didn't he leave? To my knowledge, no armed guards patrolled the campus to prevent a disgruntled malcontent from leaving permanently. 
I do recall the rules and regulations and admit that obedience was trying, but on the other hand, it was perfectly clear that the New York Central left South Bend daily and the choice was mine. Inmytxx^ Rev. Joe Kehoe CSC was a perfect prefect of discipline. But then again, I even admire J: Edgar Hoover. 
I always thou^t part of the pride . 
of being a ND man was to "take it" 
as tough as the gnng may get 
The priests of those years, living 
and dead, need no defense by me. 
However, I am proud to have known 
a Father Hugh O'Donnell, Tom 
Brennan, Joe Kehoe and countless 
others to whom I will always be 
extremely grateful for their 
guidance and help. 
My classmates were a fine groi^ of 
men who accepted their draft calls 
without burning cards. We had 
the pleasure of being inducted and 
serving overseas with a half dozen 
such men in the early postwar years. 
Our time in 1945 and 1946 saw 
the return ol ND's real men ixom 
Europe and the Pacific whose 
exami^ made our impending draft 
a small thing. 
These classmates of mine thou^t 
so mudt of ND's Inquisitimi (as 
Mr. Wilcox puts it) that we sat down 
and wrote our readmission requests 
from a military tranqiort enroute 
to San Francisco from Manila. 
As a closing remaric, I am sorry that Mr. Wilcox did not enjoy his ND years and that now in middle age he is amused at how old his classmates of 1948 have gotten. Could it be that this particular gent has never matured or is it that he. is experiencing a second childhood? 
Jim Farley '50 
303 Hillside Ave. 
Livingston, NJ. 07039 
A 600 0 QUESnON May I ask a question? Where are the wives of the alumni? I found it most amazing and somewhat fright­ening that not one woman aside from nuns felt compelled to comment on the controversial and extremely important issues presented in the last copies of the ALUMNUS. Perhaps they, like I, wrote the letters that were never mailed, but some­how from the tone of many of their husbands' letters, I fear they never even reached that point 
It is very difficult for me to under­stand how men—any men—can fail to see the terrifying implications of the problems and injustices that go unanswered in this society because of twisted, conditioned priorities; but it is impossible for me to understand how most women agree blindly with their husbands, or worse yet, not even think, let alone speak, about basic issues. We are the ones who will bear the children who will attend ND in the coming generations—if nuclear war or man's insane greed does not destroy us all before that point Women are vitally involved with ND and this world, like it or not! Why then do women not respond to the problems and propositions of the University that educated their husbands and may someday do the same for their children? 
I've had doubt upon doubt, but I feel that for the first time since my husband graduated in 1965, I would like my children, if they choose, to attend ND. Either a little bit of the real-live world came to Notre Dame or Notre Dame came out from behind her Catholic, moneyed tradition and found out things have changed. We are at a crucial stage and there is not one of us who can afford the luxury of denial, whether it suits our particular life-style or not. The stakes in this game of racism, war and the University's role in a changing society are a bit higher than the coins you'll withhold if offended and feelings about tradition! 
Mrs. Ray McLain 269 Dogwood Street Park Forest, III. 
MARINE MESSAGE 
I have just finished your December issue and wish to add my agreement with the large number of alumni who expressed dissatisfaction with the October issue. I found Dean Thompson's remarks outstanding and quite to the point 
As to Father Hesburgh's remarks. 
they are rather typical of a man who has forsaken his character for what is in vogue. I am sorry to say so but his reaction to the Moratorium Mass was grossly ir­responsible. At the time of the issue, I was moved to write a personal letter which I did not send. However, I wish to express total disagreement with lus remarks which are at best patronizing to certain elements of the student body. 
To the alumni who express total disaffection with the school, I might say they are making unfair con­clusions. One need only refer to student reports for the dismissal of the Dow demonstrators. Most of the students still maintain a. modicum of good sense not alwa)rs evidenced by the University president 
Lt Joseph G. Blake, U.S.M.C. '68 
Mortar Battery 3Fd Battalion 
10th Marines 2nd Marine Division 
M.C.B., Camp Leieune, N.C. 
ARMY ANSWER 
The hysterical reaction of many ND alumni to your October-November coverage of the campus Mora­torium Day activity is distressing to say the least One wonders where these indignant correspondents have been for the last ten years. On retreat? 
In this era of the silent majority it is easy to overlook the fact that it was demonstrations of the Moratorium Day variety that, eariy in 1968, finally awakened the nation to the utter insanity of the Vietnam debacle. As late as March of that year. Secretary Rusk, in testimony before the Fulbri^t Foreign Relations Committee, made it perfecdy clear to all that the Johnson Administration had every intention of expanding the very pc^cies that were the cause of the sorry situation that was then commanding the center of our attention. The political clout of McCarthy's New Hampshire triumph and Robert 
F. Keimedy's belated candidacy hastened Johnson's collapse and the subsequent American peace overtures but few knowledgeable observers 
would discount the impact street 
and campus demonstrations by con­
cerned patriots, had on this 
policy reversal. 
Equally lamentable is their unctimonious disgust with the alleged "use" (sic) of the Mass to lend legitimacy to the draft card rending. One would imagine they were trying to preempt the transubstantia­tion. The Offertory of the Mass has long been regarded as the time to offer oneself with the Christ to the Father. By offering their draft cards at Mass the ND Seven merely added liturgical significance to a sacrifice they are presumably prepared to make, to wit, three to five years in prison with all of its attendant stigmata. Few com­municants are willing to make a sac­rifice of that dimension. 
The Moratorium Day activities did nothing to degrade ND, the Church or the Mass. If anything, these latter added much to the meaning of the Moratorium. 
Lt. Joseph A. Ferry '68 
HHD, 38tii Battalion 
APO, S.F., Cal. 96220 
COVERAGE CRinOUE 
I just cannot let this last issue of the ALUMNUS pass without sharing with you some of my thoughts as a student recipient of the magazine. In addition, because of my involve­ment in the CIA-Dow debacle of last November as one of those ten suspended, I have specific com­ments on the coverage of that episode. 
A simple physical accounting of space allocation makes me wonder about the priorities and thrust of the magazine. Besides the cover spread, there were five and one-half pages on the recent trip to Dallas, and only one column on the suspensions and a student article by Bill Mitchell (which, incidentally, was an excellent one). Why so? I know that football is the greatest cohesive force and selling item for the University alumni, but, my God, do they not even care about the serious and important problems concerning the future of this place? If the purpose of the ND ALUMNUS is to bridge the gap of communi­cation, then I suggest more pertinent information than the social calendar of the Cotton Bowl week. 

The coverage of the suspended students left much to be said. In an attempt to be objective, you quote both the Appeals Board and Rev. James Riehle. But you neglect to mention that Father Riehle did, in fact, overrule and overturn the recommendations of that Board. Also, if you have the guts to quote him talking about "ND Christian University" then why not mention his and the Admim'stration's inability or unwillingness to answer any one of the related issues which were brought up in the defense appeal? The most acceptable way of being ob­jective is to tell the whole story. 
Of the six campus "Briefs" there were four which aroused my serious concern: a) While you proudly cited Rev. John L. McKenzie for his recent award, I must say I have never seen any mention of his public rally address of Nov. 24, 1969, in which he castigated the University administration for its ignorance of the most obvious issues to be faced concerning both University complicity and morality; b) The sports camp note was another evidence of ND's placing her typical "best foot" forward: athletics. Isn't there something else we can offer the world, and our ALUMNUS-reading alumni, rather than this pay-supplementing program for our varsity coaching staff? c) The prestige-building citation of the number of foreign students on this campus seems a bit absurd when you consider that we have less than 30 per cent of that number as a black student enrollment. I think that fact would make us second-think such boasting; d) My last suggestion concerns your publicizing the Engineering Council's opposition to the CIA-Dow incidents. Fine, but once again you seem to have ignored the other side, which in this case is a University Committee on Human Rights with a membership of over forty faculty members, all of whom have "publicly gone on record" in unequivocable opposition to the administration's actions both con­cerning the Placement Bureau and the November demonstration. Why so? 
James Metzger 71 
1019 Planner HaU 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
TAKING ISSUE 
In the last issue of the ALUMNUS, the Rev. Charles J. Minck ordered his name strickenfirom your mailing list, announced his shame at being an alumnus of ND and pulled shut the trapdoor of his ^etistic mind. I regret Father Minck no longer is among your readers, fpr I take issue with his letter, although judging by his tone I doubt if he is much interested in opinions that differ from his own. 
Father Minck was "sick at heart" about the Moratorium Day Mass at the University. He was par­ticularly shocked because one who "had formally renounced his faith" had participated in the Mass. ("And who knows if there might have been others, too." Horror of horrors) To Father Minck, their participation in the Mass was "sacriligious" and "a far worse crime in the eyes of God and of God­fearing men than the mere bodily death of 500,000 soldiers and civilians." 
Now, I'm sure Father Minck is in a far better position than I to see things through the eyes of God. And I don't qualify as a "God-fearing" man because I honestly never think of God as someone to be afraid of. But, somehow, I have the feeling that God doesn't mind at all having agnostics or atheists or even some of us sinners participate in the sacrifice of the Mass. And, somehow, I have this strange feeling that the "mere bodily death of 500,000 soldiers and civilians" (many of them innocent children. Father) is an 
enoimous blasphony against the 
Creator of life. 
Father Minck's outrage over these unworthies participating in the Mass reminds me of the indignation of the Pharisees who criticized Christ for eating with Publicans and sinners, or of that reknowned man of God who stood before the altar congratulating himself on not being "like the rest of men." It's dear that Maiy Magdalen never would make it into the AHar and Rosaiy Society at Father Minck's church. 
The (Hdy bright ai»t in Father Minck's letter was his acknowledge­ment that he mi^t be "a lone voice in the wOdemess." Would that this were so. I would have been sick at heart after reading the letter of this clerical technocrat were it not for some of the other letters in the same issue from alunmi who have not closed the trapdoor of their minds, such as the Rev. David F. Monahan '63, and Louis F. Buckl^ '28.. 
Father Minck said: "I am ashamed now to acknowledge being an alinnnus." It should be just.the other way around. Father. 
Frank M. Maier '55 
1714 E. Mayfair Ariington Heists, HI. 60004 
CATALYST? 
I must tell you how pleased I am at the flood of comments on De­cember's "Ahunni Ask" colunm. I could almost accuse you of having made up some of the Neanderthal remarics in December just to shake the true believers out of their lethargy. The re^ionse—and not just bom "liberals"—has made the two issues a genuine sounding board of Alumni opinion. Your efforts to engage us in ND's problems are eminently successful. 
Louis A. Marre '61 ,'63 Department of English 
U. of Daytcm Dayton, Oldo 45409 
Mr. Franeis P.. Clark o Head, Microfilming & Photo. Lab. Memorial Library Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 






LAST CALL 
FOR 
"^^^^ni^'itUhWi 
"On the Campus" 

June 12,13; 14 
This year's honored classes: The Fifty Year Club, 1920,1925,1930, 1935, 
1940, 1945,1950, 1955, 1960, 1965 
COME ON ALONG! 



