The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

'JT ,v 
•^\ ... 

Your Pleasure— Our Privilege 
T HAS been the privilege of the Hotel McAlpin to serve as Notre Dame Team Headquarters in the past ... . and we an­ticipate hopefully another opportunity to entertain Notre Dame cohorts. 
The McAlpin spares neither effort nor expense to make the annual visit a pleasurable event. We do more than promise the best of eveiything New York affords — we guarantee it! 
Every room at the McAlpin is large and luxuriously furnished. McAlpin serxnce is thorough, efficient, courteous and helpful. The ultra convenient location of the McAlpin saves time, effort and carfare in getting quickly to eveiy center of activity. 
• •' l'' •'• :"' i'\ ' 
As foK^'ecinxonij^r.':.;..,-McAlpin rates are at the lowest scale in the history of. tjiis; toe hotel ... . yet there has been NO IM­PAIRMEN'l'''o"f silj)el-ior service, fine food and luxurious accommo-datififn'ViSihgte rooms*with.bp^ start at S2.50 — double rooms with'brath'*from"$4:eO-'aiid WiO-bedded rooms at $4.50. 
Write or wire for }-eservatio7is .. .to me personally if you prefer 
JOHN J. WOELFLE, Mgr. 

Hotel McAlpin 
Broadvj'ay at 34th St. New York City 
104252 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
)5io3/34­
CCMMENT 

Right at the start, such is the stir­ring of the American pulse in our alumni, the ALUMNUS has to co-op­erate with the NRA by adding eight pages to our intended 32. In spite of the economic stress that will follow at some later date, unless dues keep pace with activity and interest, the pages have been added because the men who wrote them are so willing to inconvenience themselves and to co-operate with the Editor—for your benefit—that for them, as well as for you, omission or condensation would have been unfair. 
The beautiful photograph which forms the cover of this issue was tak­en by Mrs. Frank E. Hering, and is reproduced here through the courtesy of Very Rev. James A. Bums, C.S.C., whose copy of the picture was bor­rowed for the purpose. Mrs. Hering is a keen student of photography, and the manner in which the picture on the cover catches the beautj' and the symbolism that reside in the lake, the trees and the dome and spire is but one of many tributes to her art. 
President Harry Miller has ob­served the courtesies of summer and its individual distractions and its heat. But he writes that, summer past, the Big Drive is about to be launched. The Alumni Board will meet during October to consider plans already well advanced. These consist primarily of establishing the Associa­tion on a basis where we can act \vithout the problem of a subsidy from the University or the embar­rassment of our own credit elsewhere, if, as the current saying has it, any. The setting and the personnel for a big year, which will be just the first of a long line of big years, is ours this year. Harry Miller can paste Blue Eagles all'over the Alumni Of­fice windows, if you who individually are assessed a very small part of the burden will carry it and come along with him. Harry knows, from a fam­ous experience that has brought the same knowledge to you, that a back­field or a line, separately, don't make a team, but together — goalposts tougher than Michigan's will crack before them. Harry will carry the ball, if you'll sign on the line. 
Alumni coming back to the campus may be surprised to find difficulty in attending the practice sessions of the football team. What seems at the out­cations. The "no-pass" edict was ef­set like shutting the door on a friend fected to eliminate worse embarrass­has, in justice to those responsible for ments. Provision has been made for the ordex-, a background that justi­practices during the Fall that will be fies it. open to students and friends of the 
team. 
During the last two years, evidence has come to the attention of the coaching staff that the passes issued The Questionnaires are back in and the rather free access to visitors gratifying numbers—^but not nearly provided were apparently bein g complete. This is more than the or­abused. Reports of plays seemed to dinary request for information. It precede the plays to opposing camps, reflects more than an editorial cur­and considerable criticism of the iosity as to the birthdays of your coaching staff had what looked to be children. It is primarily for your an origin on the sidelines of secret benefit. If you still have your unre­practice. 
tumed Questionnaire, fill it out and These things are mentioned here send it in. If you have lost or mis­rather frankly, because the returning placed or never received it, advise the alumnus may feel that a most inter­Alumni Office and a duplicate vnll be esting part of his school is being 
sent to you. 
closed to him with unpleasant impli­
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
The magazine is published monthly during; the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, • Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is S2.00 a year: the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of S5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUSINUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the .Act of March 3, 1879. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus. Box 81, Notre Dame. Indiana. 
JVlE-MBER OP THE AMERICAN ALUM M COUNCIL 
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 

THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana JAJIES E . ARMSTRONG, Secretary-Treasurer 
ALUMNI BOARD 
BYRON V. KANALBY, '04 ----- Honorary President 
M. HARRY MILLER, 'lO -------- President FRANK C. WALKER, '09 ----- First Vice-President ARTHUR R. CARJIODY, '15 -' ---- Second Vice-President JOHN F . O'CONNELL, 13 '-- Director ROBERT E. LYNCH, '03 -------- Director HUGH A. O'DONNELL, '94-------- Director FRED L. STEERS, 'il --------- Director FRANCIS A. WERNER, '33 -----(one year) Director CLARENCE MANION, '22 -----(ex officio) Director 
^;lyyg^iyai;rS>^l?^g^^^•»jV;i^i;:ga iS-i^ r-'^^^yj^^^tfi'^x: ;;>;»; 


TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. XII October, 1933. No. 1 
N. D. Stands For New Deal, Too, As Year Opens 
Body of Blue Eagle Does Not Belong to Academic America, Says N.R.A., But Its Spirit Flaps Noisily Over A Campus Whose N. D. Has Always Meant No Depression. 
The Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, 
C.S.C, Ph.D., president of the Uni­
versity, is now conducting the busi­
ness of the University from his bed­
side in the University Infirmary, 
Notre Dame. He is doing this with 
the consent of his physicians who find 
that the mental exertion involved in 
this brings no deteriorating effect in 
the physical processes involved in his 
recovery. 
Father O'Donnell had been at St. 
Joseph's since the middle of August. 
After commencement last June, he 
went to a lake in northern Michigan 
as the guest of Mr. Fred J. Fisher, 
a trustee of the University. There 
his general condition improved until 
the early part of July when new 
symptoms indicated further activity 
of his streptococcus infection. 
He entered the Medical Center in New York for a thorough examina­tion. The doctors there diagnosed his trouble as toxic labyrinthitis in­duced by an internal infection. Vac­cine was prepared to combat the in­fection. 
At the advice of these doctoi-s he returned to South Bend to continue treatments under home sun-oundings. Father O'Donnell has made good progress since that time, but as the process of treatment is long, it will be some time before he is able to return to his desk. 
The ninety-second year of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame opened Sep­tember 14, registration occupying the two preceding days. 
Enrollment reached the official fig­ure of 2,545, admittedly more than had been anticipated by the Univer­sity, and considered encouraging in a dual light, first as a concrete e\'idence of economic recover}', and secondly as a tribute to the di-awing power of the University. The enrollment at this figure exhausts the campus facili­ties for rooms, and the regular din­ing accommodations, and is therefore sufficient to enable the physical plant to operate at full strength. It also is ample to presei-ve the nature and the policies of Notre Dame as recent years have evolved them. 
No decrease in the faculty or in the faculty salaries marks the new-year. Changes occurred, but "in stride." Five laymen have not re­turned, for reasons which occur in a faculty at all times. New men have been added to take their places. The facultj- of the University has in­creased during the depression. 
-A.lso worthy of note is the building program which the University has carried out during the years of de­pression just past. Law, Engineering and Commerce students occupy new buildings. Alumni and Dillon resi­dence halls have risen. A new power plant of ultra-modern design and size has replaced the old. A new road is open East of the Stadium. The Stadium construction itself followed the crash of the 1929 market. 
Five million dollars has been spent in the depression years by the Univer­sity for expansion pui-poses. 
A number of changes not an­nounced in the mid-summer bulletin of the ALUMNUS, involving lajTnen and more recent appointments on the campus, follow: 
Three additions to the lay faculty are Di-. George Paff, x'h.D., who has joined the College of Science after a brilliant student and teaching career of five years at Western Reserve Uni­versity, Cleveland; Dr. George Col­lins, Ph.D., who has done considerable research work for the United States bureau of standards and for the United States department of agricul­ture, and Francis O'Malley, A.M., a graduate assistant last year, valedic­torian of the Class of 1932. 
Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, Ph.D., an assistant professor last year has been named head of the department of pharmacy. 
Bernard J. Kohlbrenner of the de­partment of education has resigned to join the faculty of St. Louis Univer­sity, Mo. William F. Wall of the department of education has resigned to teach at Nazareth College, Kala­mazoo, Michigan. Joseph Ryan assist­ant professor of English has gone to Arizona for his health and will join the faculty again upon his recovery. 
John A. Staunton, assistant professor of philosophy, will sail this month for Rome to study for the priesthood. He is a former Anglican minister, now in his 70th year and is a recent convert. 
Six graduate assistants will not re­turn this year, but six have been added to the teaching staff. 
Appointments of hall rectors at the University for 1933-34 are an­nounced by the Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, acting president and prefect of religion. 
The Rev. John F. Farley, C.S.C. 
•\vill continue as rector of Sorin hall at which the Rev. Charles Doremus, 
C.S.C. and the Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C, will be prefects. 
The Rev. James Stack, C.S.C. will again serve as rector of Corby hall, also for seniors and -ivill be assisted by the Rev. John Reynolds, C.S.C and Prof. Edward A. Coomes. 
The Rev. Leo Heiser, C.S.C, rector of Morrissey hall last year, will be rector of Walsh hall for the seniors. His brother, the Rev. Alan Heiser, C.S.C, rector of St. Edward's hall last year, and the Rev. Raymond Mur­ray, C.S.C. will be prefects in Walsh hall. 
Tne Rev. Joseph Muckenthaler, 
C.S.C.
 will continue as rector of Badin hall, assisted by the Rev. James Fogarty, C.S.C. 

The Rev. Frederick Gassensmith, 

C.S.C.
 will continue as rector of Howard hall. The Rev. Joseph Bran­nigan, C.S.C, the Rev. Raymond Nor­ris, C.S.C, John Whitman, law librar­ian, and Fi-ancis O'Malley, instructor in English, will be prefects. 


The Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C. has been appointed rector of Morris­sey hall. The prefects ivill be the Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C, the Rev. James McDonald, C.S.C, and Prof. T. Bowyer Campbell. 
The Rev. John Ryan, C.S.C vdW continue as rector of Lyons hall, and the Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C, and the Rev. John Kelley, C.S.C. again will be prefects for this hall. 
The Rev. Thomas Kelly, C.S.C has been named rector of St. Edward's hall. The Rev. William H. Molony, C.S.C, rector of Walsh hall last year, and Brother Martin, C.S.C. will be prefects. 
THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1933 
The Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C, 
University archivist, is appointed rec­
tor of Alumni hall. Prefects •will in­
clude the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, 
C.S.C, dean of the College of Arts 
and Letters, and the Rev. Peter He­
bert, C.S.C, a prefect in Sorin hall 
last year. 
The Rev. Joseph Burke, C.S.C. ^x-ill 
succeed the Rev. Patrick Haggertj% 
C.S.C. as rector of Dillon hall; Father Haggerty will teach this year. The Rev. Henri' Glueckert, C.S.C, Prof. Thomas Madden, and the Rev. Nor­bert C Hoff are among the prefects for this hall. 
The Rev. Charles McAllister, C.S.C will continue as rector of Freshman hall. The Rev. Joseph A. Gierut, a graduate student at Notre, will be prefect. 

Morehead Medal to N.D. Priest 
Already the recipient of outstand­ing honors in the field of science, the Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C,, Ph.D., Sc.D., professor of organic chemistry in the Universitj', was to receive the 1932 Morehead medal last week for hav­ing done the most for ad­vancement of the industry and art of cal­cium carbide production and 
utilization.The 
award is made annually by the In­
ternational Acetylene Association. 
Presentation of the medal to Fath­er Nieuwland was to be made by its donor, the Honorable John Motley Morehead, of New York and North Carolina, on the evening of Sept. 27, at the Goodman theatre in Chicago, where a feature session of the thirty-fourth annual convention of the In­ternational Acetylene Association was to be held. 
A treatise entitled "Some Reac­tions of Acetylene" was published by the Notre Dame scientist concerning his research in 1904, only nine years after the inception of commercial manufacture of calcium carbide. To quote a publication of the .A^ssocia­tion: 
"This scholarly and pioneer volume, which attracted immediate interest at the time of its publication, has re­mained throughout the years as an authoritative reference, ser\'ing as a guide and inspiration to many of those responsible for the subsequent development of the derivatives of acetylene." 
Since the publication of the treat­ise, Father Nieuwland has continued his research in the chemistry of 

acetylene, being responsible for num­
erous advancements of inestimable 
scientific and commercial value. 

His invention of processes for the production of synthetic rubber and synthetic drying oil are perhaps his most popularly known achievements. 
Father Nieuwland is the eleventh 

recipient of the medal since its first 
presentation in 1922. Besides his 
work in organic chemistry, he was 
for 17 years a professor of botany 
in the University, and is the founder 
and editor of the American Midland 

Naturalist. In addition, he is a mem­
ber of the Deutches Chemischen Ges­
ellschaft, the London Chemical Socie­

ty, Phi Sigma, the American Chemi­
cal Society, and is a fellow of the 
British Chemical Society and the In­
diana Academy of Science. 


Kennedy, '94, Honored 
James F. Kennedy, LL.B., '94, LL.M., '95, acted as chairman of the general an-angements committee for the Diamond Jubilee of the Society of St. Vincent de Paul in Chicago on May 30. Cardinal Mundelein served as honorary chairman. Mr. Kennedy is president of the Metropolitan Cen­tral Council of Chicago, a position he has held since 1921. The various committees and Councils carried the names of other Notre Dame alumni, among them John Tully, John Ber­scheid, John Scallan, and Frank Souhrada. 

Prof. Mahin Gets Patent 
During the latter part of August, the United States patent office an­nounced that a patent for a metal­lurgical process had been granted to Prof. E. G. Mahin, head of the De­partment of Metallurgy at Notre Dame. 
This terse report from Washing­ton rewards ten years of labor de­voted to the perfection of a new process for the carburizing, or case hardening of steel. The old process of infusing carbon into steel, for the purpose of developing greate r strength and wearing qualities re­quired thirteen hours. Professor Ma­hin's modifications of this process enable it to be completed in five hours, a reduction of 70 per cent in the time required. 
The scientist received his training in Chemistry at Purdue and John Hopkins Universities. Before his ad­dition to the faculty at Notre Dame, eight years ago, he had been for many years head of the department of analytical Chemistry at Purdue. Prof. Mahin is also the author of a 


Business Opportunities 
Ed. Note: For several years, during the economic stress, alumni frequently have suggested space in the ALUMNUS for the listing of Jobs, or, more frequently, jobs wanted. But during those years such correspondence, from the job angle, had dwindled from little to complete nothingness. Local oppor­tunities and local men to fill them. were so well known that no outside help was ever suggested. Now, however, with signs of prosperity, opportunities here and there are beginning to show themselves. Alumni still reflect the economic maladjustment of our recent ex­perience. Therefore, the JVLUMXUS feels that at this particular time, it may possibly be of real sen-ice in the introdjction of space in which Notre Dame men who have places for other Notre Dame men may list them, and Notre Dame men who desire opportunities of particular kind or place can make their wants known. Obviously, the space so devoted cannot be indefi­nite, but a brief announcement of supply and demand will be printed on request. Names and addresses can be given, or the Alumni Office used as in the case of "blind ads" if publication would be a soui'ce of embarrassment or jeopardy. 
To begin: 
John T. Ealfe, '20, production manager of the John C. SIcNa­mara Organization, 17 John St., New York City, writes that he has had several positions for recent college graduates — secretarial ability, good character, single. Ap­plications for such positions will be placed on file with Mr. Balfe if directed to hi mat that address, for such openings. 

text, Quantitative Analysis, which is used in the Chemistry course here at Notre Dame. 

Jaskwhich to Holy Cross 

Charles Jaskwhich, '33, varsity quarterback, is coaching this Fall at Holy Cross College, New Orleans, a Catholic boarding school for boys under the direction of the brothers of the Congregation of Holy Gross. He will coach all sports. 


St. Thomas And The Torch Song— 
Or Any Title You May Select to Identify This Brilliant Address Delivered to the Graduates of the University's Fifteenth Annual Sumtner School August 1. 
By DANIEL O'GRAPY, PH.D . 

Ed. Note: One of the jiems of purest ray has finally been plucked from the dark unfathomed caves the Summer School Commencement. Toa often, an editorial confession, able addresses have succumbed the things before and after. But this treatise, prepared by a brilliant younff Doctor of Philosophy of the University's faculty, contains so much that is of import to us all—whether our Commencement was simimcr or winter. '80s or '30s. that we seize it as the prize pearl of the October oyster. Its author as been a member of the faculty of philosophy since 1926. collaboratin;^ with Rev. Charles Miltner in 
P

several works on philosophy during that period, in addition to his practice of a very popular pedaffORy. 
^ ^ EOl 

There is something unique about the graduation exercises in a Cath­olic university. Graduation from any university, signifies initiation into the company of cultured minds. It means the attainment of membership in the group known as the intelli­gentsia (I use the word in its better sense). But to receive a degree from an institution such as this, implies (among other important things) af­filiation with a tradition that dates back to mediaeval times. 
All universities owe their origin to the Middle Ages, and Catholic insti­tutions in particular, have more than a merely genetic connection with that period, because they still subscribe to the world view which was universal in Europe seven centuries ago. The Middle Ages are identified in the mind of the student of history with the crusades, with the institution of chivalry, with the feudal system, and with Gothic architecture. They saw the rise of the mendicant Dominicans and Franciscans and the introduction of Aristotle who was to supplant Plato in the favor of the western world. It was a time of economic peace thanks to the guilds and, more important still, it was an era of re­ligious unity, of political harmony and of relative philosophic unanimity. 
The so-called Reformation had not yet brought about that abolition of authority or set up that private in­terpretation which resulted in chaotic individualism. The principle of na­tionalism had not yet rent asunder that harmony wherein people of di­vergent racial stocks dwelt in coop­eration and peace and security. The economic system of capitalism had not yet appeared with its machines, its legalized usury and its ruthless competition. The democratic fallacy with its doctrine of the divine right of 51 per cent expressed in the in­consistent assertion that "I am just as good as my neighbor and perhaps a little bit better"—this sophistry was yet to come. Men had not yet heard the futile cry of "liberty, equal­ity and fraternity." They realized that we cannot all be leaders and that authority is indispensable to co­operation and hence to progress. They were not so chauvinistic or jingoistic as to say "my country right or wrong" any more than they would have said "Jly mother drunk or sober." 
They rated spirit higher thah mat­ter. They regarded quality as super­ior to quantity, they believed that ends were more important than means. 
True indeed the communicative re­sources of mediaeval man were lim­ited in comparison with those of to­day. Telephone, telegraph, radio, tel-e\usion—these were unknown. Trans­portation was likewise inadequate when measured in terms of contem­porarj"- facilities. It may be obser\-ed however that the scholastics were less concerned with means than with ends and that, if they lacked the printing press and such conveniences, they did have a message worth commun­icating. Today we have all means and no ends. The radio is a mar­velous instrument but to what avail? What doth it profit modem man when it is employed, nine-tenths of the time, to broadcast such vapid, insipid, inane and fatuous messages as "It ain't no sin to take off your skin and dance around in your bones" or "Yes, we have no bananas." Again one might inquire: what gain is ours be­cause we can travel at a velocity of GO or 70 miles per hour? Behold in 1933, John Smith, a nonentity, rush­ing from nowhere to no place to do nothing in practically no time at all. 
There are other blessings of du­bious advantage which mediaeval man went without—Saxophones, min­iature golf, cross-word puzzles, jazz, Hollywood, best sellers, prohibition, torch songs, crooners, press-agents, beauty parlors, dance marathons, nudists, bill-boards, publicity, racket­eers. Simple fellows they were in the Middle Ages. Imagine living in a world without funny-papers, or tab­loids, or jig-saw puzzles. Poor people. And yet Homer, Caesar, Leonardo, Shakespeare, Goethe, Milton, Napo­leon and Beethoven did ^vithout these things. 
Please do not infer that I am advo­cating that we turn back the hands of the clock, the leaves of the calen­dar and the very pages of history. Catholicism is not exclusively, reac­tionary nor progressive, neither e.x­cessively conservative nor preponder­antly liberal. It is inspired by the past but also by the future. That is why it has been described by a recent German writer as a "Complex of Opposites." And that is also why Pope Leo XIII in his encyclical Aetemi Patris, advocated the adop­tion of the policy or slogan: "Per­fect the old by adding the new." 
There are still some historians who identify the Middle Ages with the so-called "dark ages" and with the domination of dogma and authority. To these people, the renaissance tran­sition to modem times represents an escape from the bondage and shackles of authority. They tell us that the Christian Doctrine of the Incarna­tion rendered imperative a geocentric astronomy as though it were undig­nified to have such a sacred drama played anywhere but on the center of the stage. The truth of the mat­ter is however, as Hulme has pointed out, it was not the astronomy but the theology of the time that deter­mined the outlook of the man in the street. The mediaeval outlook was dominated by the doctrine of original sin and not by the geocentric astrol­ogy of Ptolemy. That is to say as­tronomy is not a matter which enters \itally into the quotidian concerns of the average citizen any more than today are our daily lives affected by the latest pronouncements of Ein­stein. As a matter of fact, our ver­nacular speech is still infested with geocentric terminology and nomen­clature. We still say the sun rises and the sun sets. We still point to Ciiina in the West and to Europe in the East and make no allowance for the earth's curvature. Accordingly, the correct version of the Mediaeval 
October, 1933

outlook is that most of the profes­sional astronomers regarded the earth as the flat center of the solar system but this view did not affect the psychology of the ordinary man. To him man had fallen through sin and his chief ambition was salva­tion. Man was not the measure of things but rather a humble creature. ' It was the renaissance with its re­vival of paganism which, despite its heliocentric astronomy, produced in the minds of men an anthropocentric world by making the human seem more important than the super­natural. The so-called reformation went further still in its repudiation of authority and gave to man an ego­centric environment as implied in its doctrine of private interpretation. Then came the flood of subjectivism, individualism, utilitarianism, hedon­ism, and pragmatism. None of these "isms" recognize the existence of principles that are constant, stand­ard, objective, absolute, or invariable. Everything is relative and evolving. And herein my friends lies the essen­tial diff'erence between the mediaeval 
. view point and the modern. This is the crux of the whole matter. This is the intrinsic and distinctive key­note of the issue. This is the differ­ence between Aquinas and a Darwin, a Bergson or an Einstein. Above all else the scholastics of the Middle Ages stood for principles. I do not imply in my indictment of modem thought that the mediaeval era rep­resented heaven upon earth. There were sinners then as there are sin­ners now but, mark this well, the mediaeval sinner recognized himself as such. There was at least agree­ment upon principles. The modem practice is to indulge in evil deeds and then to deny their viciousness. 
What do I mean by principles? I mean nothing more than truths and laws that do not change with fashion or the weather. I mean that it is impossible to be completely negative. When Heraclitus of old declared that everythting changes, Aristotle replied that at least that law must remain immutable for if the law that every­thing changes, changes, then every­thing doesn't change. Despite his refutation of that fallacy, it is re­peated by Bergson and by Shaw to­day. The man who declares that all men are liars, has made a liar of himself and thus destroyed his own position. The man who states that all generalizations are false, has just uttered a generalization. The skeptic who claims that he doubts every­thing, must at least be certain of his own doubt. The thinker who denies the possibility of philosophy, has ipso facto committed himself to a philoso­phy, and a very pessimistic one at that. AVe must have something to hang on to; in other words principles are indispensable. G. K. Chesterton 
tells the story of a penitent who ad­mitted to her confessor, a loss of fa'ith. "What do you believe in?" he replied. .. . "I do not believe in the redemption, the trinity or papal in­fallibility," she said. To this he re­plied, "I did not ask you what you did not believe in but what you do believe in." .. . "I believe that two and two make four," was the answer. "Then," said he, "You just stick to that." The advice was sound because the same logic behind the acceptance of the conclusion that two and two make four will impel any sane mind to accept the principle of contradic-
DANIEL O'GRADY, PH.D. 
Scholar, Aiithor, "Sivell Fellow." 
tion, thence the principle of causality and finally a Divine Creator as a first cause. 
Both Mill and Ibsen suggested that two and two might make five on one of the fixed stars, but, as Chesterton obser\'ed, the very fixity of those stars and indeed the entire struc­ture of the science of astronomy rests upon the truth of the assertion that two and two make four. There are a few people of course who sim­ply do not understand a principle. They remind one of the man who, when asked if he believed in baptism, retorted "Believe in it? Why I've seen it". . . . There are still others with such an ego-centra complex that they ivill deny even what they do not understand. A person of this type was once asked if he believed in original sin. He replied negatively. Did he believe in the Immaculate Conception? Again came a stout "No," to which his orthodox oppon­ent replied "You poor idiot, you can­not deny both because if there is no such thing as original sin, then everybody had an immaculate concep­tion." 
But leaving aside such unfortun­ate people, the fact remains there are contemporary thinkers, yes, and lead­ers of thought, who try to escape the obligations of first principles. Such is their conception of liberty. 
It is the sort of license one would enjoy were he to dispense with a rudder or a compass because he re­sented the limitations they imposed upon him. Joseph Wood Krutch re­marks how ironical it is that after Thomas Henry Huxley succeeded in convincing many of his Victorian fel­low men that the notion of sin was a superstition, his very grandson, Al­dous Huxley, should be among the leaders of those who cry out today in despair: "We have eaten the for­bidden fruit and it is sour. We have eaten the lotus and it is poison. These things may not be evils but neither are they good. They may not be sins but neither are they worth while." In Aldous Huxley's own words "This is a pleasure seeking age but not a pleasure finding age, other­wise there would not be such a cult of novelty or a wild pursuit of fads." 
There are pseudo-historians who \\ill tell you that the renaissance was a period of intellectual ferment and of intense zeal, ardour and fer\'or, and they imply that the Middle Ages were on the contrary a time of men­tal inertia and depressed spirits. But they do not tell you that in the Mid­dle Ages, entire communities dedi­cated their collective services to the construction of Gothic cathedrals— huge sursuvi cordas in stone. They do not tell you that thousands of students, ranging in age from ten to sixty years, marched from one uni­versity town to another to hear some celebrated lecturer. 
There are pseudo-historians who will tell you that Catholicism and science are incompatible and they base their claims on the sole avail­able instance, namely, the case of Galileo, an affair which Catholic his­torians recognize as a deplorable blunder. They do not tell you that Thomas Henry Huxley favored the side of the inquisitors or that Ber­trand Russell, a contemporary agnos­tic, describes Galileo as a congenital trouble maker. They do not tell you that Copernicus who really invented the" new astronomy was a Catholic monk or that Nicholas of Cusa who also anticipated Galileo in this re­spect was a Catholic cardinal. They do not tell you that the scientific Galileo scorned Kepler's theorj' of tides, or that Luther declared Coper­nicus to be a fool for denying the scriptures, or that Kepler was con­demned by the Protestant university of Tubingen for teaching the same doctrine as Galileo, or that Bacon denied the rotation of the earth, or that Calvin had Servetus burned at the stake or that Harvey and Sir Thomas Brown presided at witch­
craft trials. They do not tell you 
that the mob in the French revolu­
tion which swept both the throne and 
(Continued on Pairc 12) 

// i Singing Irish^^ Sensations Of Summer Stage 
Prof. Joseph Casasanta, *23, and Picked Glee Club Members, Receive Ovations from Audiences and Critics in Vaude­
ville Tour of Ten Weeks. By BOB CAHILL, '34, (who traveled with the group). 
No doubt some of you will be sur­prised to learn that the Glee Club under the direction of Joe Casasanta, '23, was in your vicinity during the Summer, but many of the informed saw and enjoyed the program sung by the group of undergraduates in the principal cities of the East and Mid-\^est. Sevei-al changes in the original itinerary made advance no­tice to alumni almost impossible. 
We left the campus on June 5th, the day after commencement, and like all aspirants to stage fame, we headed for New York City, where we were welcomed at the Citj- Hall by Mayor O'Brien. We opened a week's engagement at the Capitol Theatre (on Broadway, no less) and received an enthusiastic reception. While in New York we enjoyed a broadcast with Rudy Vallee's program includ­ing Walter O'Keefe,'21. First of the Alumni to greet us there was Hugh 
A. O'Donnell, '94, genial as always, who entertained us with a get-togeth­er at his apartment. Among others who showed up were Myles Mullen, '32, who is in the Law School at St. John's in Brooklyn, Herb Giorgio, '32, Bemie Conroy, '30, Gerry Con­way, '32, who had just finished a suc­cessful year at N. Y, U. Business School, and was in the employ of Brown, Bigelow & Co., a former Glee Clubber. We then proceeded to Washington, D. C, and after an audi­ence with Postmaster General Farley, played a week at the Fox Theatre in that city. Bo Richards, '31, dropped in, as did Watts Eicher, '27. Bo had received his Law aegree from George­town shortly before, and was prepar­ing for the bar exam. Watts is one of the stellar aides of Frank Walker, '09, the Democrat, you know. Tom Garver, '32, also a former singer, was very kind in showing us around the Capital, which a surprising num­ber of us yokels from the com belt had never seen. 
Baltimore was next on the sched­ule, and we took it in stride. We spent a week at the Century there, and the audience responded nicely. Ran into Jim Malloy, '30, backstage, and we had quite an interesting hour or two reminiscing. Jim has been with Bell Telephone of Maryland since he was graduated, and is in line for a promotion soon. He told me that Dan Barton, '30, (one more handspring, Dan) is located in Wash­ington, having finished Law at Georgetown. Bob Haire, '30, is in with the government, inspecting crops or something, and Dick Donoghue, '30, has a good position with Metro-GoldwjTi-Mayer, patrolling the Wash­ington district. Gil Prendergast, '30, is and has been connected with the Hartford Accident and Indemnity Co., and Dan Cannon, '30, has everjiihing under control at the -A.cme Fast 
WHAT THE REVIEWS SAW "Irish Backs" can play football, and bo}j, how they can sing football songs. The big feature is the appearance of the glee club from the University of Notre Dame. . . The audience gave the boys from the West a demonstrative welcome. .4 fine, upstanding group of young men are these singers and their voices arc truly glorious. . . . If you fail to hear this glee club while it is in Boston you are depriving yourself of a musical delight. 
Although their songs in theatres are of a. lively nature, the talents of the men arc not confined to the frivoloits. In fart, they arc so expert with serious scores that it was tcith some diffindty that they were persuaded that a Latin hymn is not adapted to a movie house. 
These lads are something to marvel at. Without accompaniment, they fare better than most professionals with an accompanist. . . .Applause is now thun­derotts ovation, well deserved, for this club is easily one of the best features in vaudeville of the day. 

Freight Co. in Washington. Warner Brothers then summoned us to New York City again, and we spent an in­teresting few Qays at their Brooklyn studios making a short movie. It is due to be released around the first of October, and will probably appear in your vicinity. We vacationed for a week, some of the men going to their homes in the East, and others going divers places of interest. We con­vened the following week at Keith's Memorial in Boston, where we broke all attendance records dating from the month of March. Those Boston Irish certainly did applaud, and Bos­ton papers wrote glowing accounts. Pi-ank "Red" Reilly, '32, was one of the first on the scene, and took some of us to his home, not once but sev­eral times for the celebrated Notre Dame custom of a free meal. He's entering B. U.'s law school in the Fall. Joe McCabe, '32, erstwhile Notre Dame law student, helped to inculcate Boston's culture into some of us provincial lads, and we finally had to admit that it's a great city. Tommy Ferriter, '29, journeyed down from Lowell, Mass., where he was in­terning, by way of winning his M. D. at Tufts. The trip was old stuff to him, as he was one of the pioneers who blazed the way to Hollywood with the Club in '27. Charley Col-ton, '29, also put the feed bag on for a couple of us at his home in Dor­chester. Leo McCauley, '27, helped Joe Casasanta to while away some of 
MAYOR RAY MILLER, '14, 

 GREETS CLUB IN CLEVELAND 
Boys reflect gcuial reception by Popular Leader in one of iVotr*.' Dame's the hours. (Continued on Page 12) most Friendly Centers. 
BY 
JIM KEARNS, "34 





CAMPUS 
(Ed. Note: James Keams, Senior in Arts and Letters, of Dubutiuc. Iowa, is Editor of this year's Scholastic and in constant contact with happenings* and opinions of the campus. The ALUMNUS is fortun­ate, it believes, in securing Mr. Kearns* co-operation for a page each month summarizing these always interesting phases of campus life for those who have liveti it in years past. The author is a brother of 
John T. Kearns, .Jr., '29, and conse<iucntIy aware of younger alumni reactions and opinions.) 
e| P 
The Notre Dame year is well under way again for the 2,545 of us cur­rently at large on the campus. With two weeks under the collective belt of the student body, campus routine has settled down almost to its normal orbit. The situation itemized: 
MISSIONS: The first mission, Sep­tember 17-23, for all freshmen and for. the sophomores in Lyons and St. Edward's halls, was conducted by the Reverend John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, The upper-class mission, September 24-30, was conducted by the Reverend Charles Flynn, C.S.C, of the mission band. 
PUBLICATIONS: The Juggler, the Dome, and Scrip are in the process of organization for the year. The Scholastic made its first appearance on Friday, September 22. 
The Juggler this year is under the guidance of Joseph Degnan, '34, of West Lebanon, N. H. Louis Hruby, '35, Cleveland, Ohio, has the all-year job of the Dome, while Paul McMan­us, '34, of Dorchester, Mass., •ivill edit the, literary quarterly. Your campus correspondent, who ships his trunk from Dubuque, Iowa, writes editor­ials for The Scholastic. 
A new policy affecting The Scholas­tic and Scrip went into effect this fall. The size of the weekly has been reduced because of economic reasons and the number of issues in the year has been cut to twenty-six. On the four Fridays omitted from The Scho­lastic's usual list of publication dates. Scrip will appear and be distributed to every student. 
CAMPUS IMPROVEMENTS: Sa­cred Heart Church is in the process of being redecorated. The Gregori frescoes are being restored, the col­umns and walls of the church re­painted, and the old lighting system replaced by Gothic lantern fixtures of special design. The repairing and re­decoration of the Bernini altar is also under way. 
A new paved road east of the stad­ium and Cartier Field has been opened to motor traffic. The road, designed to increase the safety of crossing Eddy St. near the football fields and the tennis courts and to alleviate traffic tieups at football games, runs in a wide aire from the Eddy St.-Angella St. crossing to a point just north of the tennis courts where it rejoins the Eddy St. pave­ment. 
The Main Building dome is being regilded for the first time in ten years. A 23 ^i Karat gold leaf is being applied to the statue of Notre Dame as well as to the dome itself. Considerable work remains to be done on this §5,000 project as incle­ment weather delayed the contractor for some time. 
MUSIC: Professor Joseph Casa­santa brought his glee club back to the campus after a 14-week vaude­ville tour just in time to launch an­other year's activities in Music hall. 
One hundred and fifty student sing­ers turned out for the first glee club tests of the year. The band attracted a total of 100 candidates, out of which group a marching personnel of 80 will be picked. 
MANAGERS: The student mana­ger group continues to function well at lugging headgears, keeping people out of practice sessions, generally be­ing useful to Hunk and his squad. 
Clyde A. Lewis, '34, Wheeler, Ore., is senior football manager and head of the organization. Edward J. Fish­er and Edward J. Mulvihill, both '34, are associate football managers. More than fifty freshmen reported as can­didates for the senior jobs of 1937. 
S. A. C : George Shields, '34, of Grand Rapids, Mich., is at the throt­tle as the S. A. C. gets up steam for another year. Prospects for real ac­tivity from the group look unusually bright. With four home football games of big-league caliber. Shields' organization faces one of its busiest seasons. 
The first of a series of freshman convocations was held in the gym Septembeir 22. Regular class meet­ings will.be held twice a week until the Kansas game for the purpose" of practicing songs and cheers. By the time they're seniors, all the '37ers should know the words to On Doivn The Line. 
POLITICS: The classes, except '37, and the campus clubs settled their factional difficulties in the spring elections and are holding off all po­litical and social activity for a few weeks. Edward T. Sullivan, Sopho­more class president, Mechanicsville, 
N. y., will have the first shot at ap­pointing people with the Cotillion in the more or less immediate future. 
James V. Moscow of Chicago is president of the senior class and Thomas LaLonde of Alpena, Michi­gan, heads the junior class. 
In the group of city and state clubs, the three largest have senior presidents: Metropolitan club, James Dunnigan; Chicago club, John Quirk; New Jersey club, Robert McDonough. 
K. of C: Grand Knight Larrj' Sex­ton has started the council on its regular schedule of bi-monthly meet­ings. Plans for the observance of Co­lumbus day and for the year's series of monthly Communion breakfasts are being organized. Also among the plans : an intra-Council bowling league. 
CLASS CUTS: The playboys are in for a bad time of it this year under the new University ruling on class ab­sences. The fourth cut in a three-hour class, and the third in a two-hour class will spell finis to the guilty party. 
The rule on triple cuts, however, has been abolished. Formerly an ab­sence from the last class meeting be­fore or the first one after a holiday was charged up as three cuts. Under the new rule all absences will be recorded as singles, regardless of when they are taken. 
HERO: George Melinkovich, kept from school this Fall by illness saved the lives of two children while he was convalescing at Watervliet, Michigan, during July. Staying at the summer home of D. A. Horan of Chicago, Melinkovich and Denny Horan, Jr. drove the Horan speedboat out into the lake during a terrific storm to tow ashore a rapidly filling small mo­tor boat with two children aboard which had stalled in mid-lake. 

October, 19SS 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 

Religious Page 
The Roughneck Chains 

The death of Brother Valerian this summer calls for special mention. 
For many years Brother Valerian was in charge of the steam plant. When rheumatism crippled him so badly that he could no longer do ac­tual work he took charge of the Car­roll hall locker room. There he be­gan a campaign which in the course of time became national in scope. For years he had twisted wire into chains for rosaries—and there are some of his beads on tne campus that have been in service for more than fort}­years. In the locker room he noticed that most of the boys wore no medals —so he made his strands longer and fashioned chains for scapular medals. He sold the chains for ten cents each, and gave the profits to the Bengal mission. 
On a good day his rheumatic hands, gnarled and t\visted, would make ten chains and he would have another dollar for the missionaries. Demand came from other halis than Carroll, and the output was finally command­eered by the Prefect of Religion for the whole University. Outsiders saw the football players wearing medals and requests came in by mail. The number of calls swamped the facili­ties of this "cottage industrj-" and Father Doremus conceived the notion of making scapular chains of the bead chain used by electrical companies— and the "sissy chain" came to the rescue of Brother Valerian's "rough­neck chains." (Last year a mile of this material was wi-apped around boys necks here and away from here; this year's stock is 7,000 feet.) 
Brother didn't quit the field, how­ever. He sat up in bed and made more chains. When the pliers slipped from his fingers he would take up his beads—and every day. he said fifteen decades for the boys, another fifteen for the community, and as many more fives and tens and fifteens as he could get in. "It helps me to pass the time," he would say; "I'm never lonesome." But he would pick up the pliers again and go back to his chains. He left enough of his wire chains for one hundred roughnecks when he died. 
The greater portion of Brother Valerian's 88 years were spent in God's service in religion, but it would be mean of us to excuse ourselves from praying for him on that ac­count. He helped to revive devotion to the scapular among boys all over the countiy; the Blessed Virgin loved him for that, and we want to say her prayer for him—the Rosary. 
"Blessed are the Dead. ... " 

With the news of Paul McGannon's death this summer came a letter from a non-Catholic friend who had been closely associated with Paul in the New York Assembly. The friend wTote of Paul: "He was the finest gentleman I have ever known." He enclosed a check for §25, for Masses for the repose of Paul's soul, and added that he wanted some of these said on the occasion ol the football games so that they could be attended by Paul's friends among the alumni. 
Another death this summer that brought beautiful expressions of sym­pathy to the University was that of Father James McGinnis, '99. The zeal of Father McGinnis and Ws devo­tion to Notre Dame were the points stressed in these letters. His long sen'ice with the Apostolic Mission band in the Archdiocese of New York brought to this priestly alumnus myr­iads of friends. The University owes Father McGinnis a special debt of gratitude for the witness he bore to her ideals. 
The death this summer of a Notre Dame man in spe, Leo McKenna, of Montreal, Quebec, was a source of great edification. Leo spent one night at Notre Dame this summer, but he "caught on" so completely in that short time that we feel that we can claim him for our own. 
Accompanied by a friend, Leo stopped off to see Notre Dame on his way to the World's Fair. He and his companion had worked their way down from Montreal on a boat. They made friends ^\ith a priest here and Leo was so impressed with Notre Dame that he asked his father's per­mission to transfer here. 
His father i\Tites that he was still considering the matter when he re­ceived word of his son's death in an 

Rev. John O'Hara, C. S. C. 
Vice President ofihe Univemty and Prefect of Relighn 

auto accident. With the companion of his trip to Notre Dame he had driven to Quebec to visit his mother in a hospital there. He made a pil­grimage to the shrine of St. Anne de Beaupre and received Holy Com­munion there. On the return trip he and his friend stopped at half dozen churches to pray for Mrs. McKenna's recovery. On their way home that night their car overturned as they swerved to avoid hitting a farmer's wagon. Leo was killed—^within fif­teen feet of a wayside cross. Within five minutes the Bishop of Valleyfield stopped at the scene and gave con­ditional absolution. 
We claim Leo for our own because the circumstances of his death paral­leled so closely those oi so many of our students in recent years who have met instantaneous death only a few hours after receiving Holy Com­munion. This lesson is not lost on the boys in school: such happenings have always been more potent than any mission sermon in bringing the stragglers back to the Sacraments. 
Reconciling Duties 

Hundreds of letters from alumni interested in the spiritual program of the University have expressed curios­ity about the combination of duties imposed by the Provincial Council last summer in adding the title of Vice-President to the Prefect of Reli­gion. To satisfy the curiosity of these alumni it is stated that the Vice-President will normally give his days to administrative duties and his eve­nings to spiritual work among the students. Matters of discipline, stu­dent finance, ana student employment have been delegated to other officials. This arrangement not only allows time for confessions and spiritual consultations but removes a potential source of friction. 
The old office in Sorin Hall (room 

141) has been refitted as the office of the Prefect of Religion, and the "light in the Sorin Hall tower" is again an invitation to spiritual conferences, as it was from 1924 to 1932. 
Father John J. Cavanaugh, '23, is now Assistant Prefect of Religion. He occupies the neAv quarters in Dillon Hall opened a year ago for this work, and answers the morning cans to the hall chapel. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, 193S 

SINGING IRISH 
(Continued from Page 9) 
The next week was spent in barn­
storming through New England, play­
ing a couple of days in Milford, 
Mass., Joe's home town, where Cy 
Kellet, '22, is holding the fort, and 
Southbridge, Mass., and thence to 
Worcester for a week. Despite the 

fact that we were in the stionghold 
of Holy Cross College, we were given 

a great reception, several of the hoys 
made promising social contacts while 
there, and Mayor Maloney presented 
us with the city key. 
Another week's lay-off, and then 

began a week at the Albee in Brook­
lyn. Father Sigmar, Notre Dame fac­
ulty member, welcomed us there, es­
caping from his rectorj- for the time. 
We commuted from our Manhattan 
hotel, and were introduced to the 
amazing ease and i-apidity of the sub­
ways. (Chicagoans, please note). 
Ferdie Grofe, composer of the tone 
poem to Knute Rockne, came to our 
dressing room and was kind enough 
to explain and play parts of his beau­
tiful composition for us. 
We then headed westward, and our next engagement was at the RKO Palace in Chicago. It was there that we receiveo our biggest ovation, sing­ing several encores every perform­ance and broadcasting over WGN. Saw Jack Elder, '30, Spike McAdams, '29, Bob Cunningham, '31, Neil Hur­ley, '32, Gerrj' Desmond, '31, Char­ley DoeiT, '32, Pat McLaughlin, '29, who had just returned from Europe, Herb Petzel, '32, Don O'Toole, '31, and good ole Mart Downey, '31, who is at the City Hall. Found time be­fore we opened in Chicago to visit the home folks at Dixon, HI., and was informed that Mike Kinney, '31, is helping the Secretarj' of State at Springfield, John Cahill, '33, is head of the electrical department at the State Hospital there. The Jones boys, Gerrj', '22, and Willard, '25, are bouncing infant daughter and son, respectively, on their knees. 
Cincinnati at the Palace Theatre, was the next stop after the enjoyable week in Chicago, and we were wel­comed there by Ed. Moriarty, ass't. mgr. of the beautiful Netherland Plaza, where we stopped. Didn't see many others of the Alumni there, ex­cept J. Carleton Sullivan, '31, who was passing through. He's working for a publishing house and doing right smart. 
Our final week was in Cleveland, and what a week it was! Now there's a town that fulfils the Alumni Secre­tary's dream. The N. D. Club simply couldn't do enough for us. Fred Joyce, '19, made one of the nights happy by setting us up at his fashion­able Lake Shore Hotel with a dinner dance. Mayor Ray Miller, '14, greeted us at the City Hall, on our first day there and certainly made us feel at home. Then we were guests at the regular dinner on Monday at Charley Rohr's, '30, restaurant. The Butler boys, John, '27, and Joe, '30, not to forget brother Bob, a present mem­ber of the Glee Club, did everything possible to make our stay a success­ful one, and they certainly succeeded. John Penote, '33, took the whole Glee Club to his home one evening, too, and I spent an enjoyable day with John "Sarge" Raleigh, '31, who is working for the city. John Butler, incidentally, is secretary to Mayor Miller, while Joe keeps Homblower & Weeks out of the red. We left the Hippodrome there, where, to use the vernacular, we "had 'em in the straw" all week, and returned to classes at N. D. the following day, to relate our experiences to the less fortunate, who listened with a bored look as they shifted from one foot to the other. (Notre Dame hasn't changed mucn, at that.) 
DR. O'GRADy'S ADDRESS 
(Continued from Page 8) 
altar from France executed the great chemist Lavoisier declaring that they had no need of Savants. 

As a matter of fact, the historian of science, Charles Singer has proved that neither the renaissance nor the reformation contributed anything to the progress of science. Any science which the humanist revived was not only ancient but obsolete. Why then the bigotry of blaming the Middle Ages for the lack of the modem scientific outlook? Indeed Roger Bac­on in the thirteenth century was much more of a scientist than Fran­cis Bacon of the sixteenth century. The same is true of Albert the Great and even in the renaissance period Leonardo da Vinci encountered no conflict between his science and his faith. Besides the many Catholics such as Mendel and Pasteur, whose names adorn the history of science, there are many eminent scientists of the protestant persuasion whose be­liefs were in harmony with their nat­ural investigations. In this category Ne^rton and Lord Kelvin belong. One might also add the contemporaries Eddington, Jeans, Millikan an d Compton. Surely these men are aware of the limitations of science and yet we are told by some agnostics today that when such leaders speak such thoughts they do so without author­ity. The situation seems to be that some people simply refuse to believe. They are like Zola who said "I don't believe in miracles: even if all the sick in Lourdes were cured in one moment, I would not believe in them." Such was the prejudice, big­otry and bias of the lady who said "I hope I never get to like olives because then I would always be hav­ing them, and I hate them." 
There are pseudo-historians who will tell you that mediaeval science was nothing more than primitive magic. What fools the alchemists were for seeking the philosopher's stone, the elixir of life and the trans­mutation of lead into gold. They were ridiculed by Boyle and Dalton and by Max\vell who declared, with 
ex cathedra and dogmatic iinality, that the elements were irreducible. Then in the last decade of the nine­teenth century came the discovery of radio activity, and, as a result, in 1932 Marconi annoimced his hopes for success in the work of transmut­ing elements. Again within the last month Sir Ernest Rutherford speak­ing from the Cavendish laboratories at Cambridge university made proph­esy to the same effect. Here then is a theory which those poor deluded men of faith seven centuries ago stumbled on somehow. Perhaps we should be slow to dismiss even their science and certainly we have much to learn from their philosophy for in their time philosophy and not sci­ence was the prime concern of men of thought. 
At any rate, now that the intel­lectual portion of the non-Catholic world is beginning to discover the merits of scholasticism, now that our sophisticated contemporaries are aware that, as Wyndham Lewis said, "Aquinas is more than a mineral water," now that a young intellectual can vrriie "A man is cultured when he takes his last dollars to buy a set of the Siimvia Theologica"—^now that these things have come to pass I ex­hort you to renew your efforts so that mere acquaintance may develop into familiarity and that you who un­derstand the mediaeval temper, spirit and outlook may be its recognized custodians. 

Galvin on K.C. Supreme Board 
Timothy P. Galvin, '16, past dep­uty for the state of Indiana of the Knights of Columbus, was elected to the Supreme Board of the order at the national convention held in Chi­cago in August. Tim's oratorical record and his interest in the work of the Knights of Columbus is too familiar a story to Notre Dame men to require other than an appreciation of the new and merited honor which his work has won for him from those he has served so well. 

October, 193S THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
The Illustrious Doctor Broivnson 

On a marble slab covering the coffin of Orestes Augustus Brownson beneath the floor of "the basement Chapel" under the College Church are these words: 
HIC JACET ORESTES A. BROWNSON QUI. VERAM. FIDEM. HUMIL­ITER. AGNOVIT. INTEGRAM. VIXIT. VITAM. CALAMO. LINGUAQUE. ECCLESIAM. AC. PATRIAM. FORTITER. DEFENDIT. AC. LICET. MORTL CORPUS. OBIERIT. MENTIS. OPERA. SUPERSUNT. IMM0RT.4.LIA. INGENIL MONUMENTA. 
It is almost worth the toil and trouble of declensions and conjuga­tions and Latin vocabulary for the pleasure of reading this perfect ex­ample of mortuary inscription. It issued from the refined classic taste, and was traced by the fastidious pen, of the truly learned Father Stan­islaus Fitte, C.S.C, picturesquely re­membered by generations of students. It may be translated thus: 
HERE LIES ORESTES A. BROWNSON WHO IN HUMILITY AVOWED THE TRUE FAITH LIVED THE COMPLETE GOOD LIFE, WITH PEN AND TONGUE STOUTLY DEFENDED CHURCH AND COUNTRY AND ALTHOUGH HIS BODY HAS GONE DOWN TO DEATH THE WORKS OF HIS MIND 
SURVIVE 
IMMORTAL 

MONUMENTS OF HIS GENIUS. 
The general chronology of Brown-sons life is rougly this: Bom Stock-bridge, Vt., September 16, 1803. Died April 17, 1876 at Detroit; wrought as lecturer, preacher and editor at a dozen cities in New York and New Jersey. After resting for so many years in their original grave, his re­mains were borne to Notre Dame and deposited in their present tomb in June 1886. As chief philosopher on the campus of that day, Father Fitte preached a sermon which for more than one reason is still remembered by many of us old inhabitants. After the Mass, says his biographer, "The venerable Father General Sorin spoke for a short time of his long and in­timate friendship with the distin­guished dead whose remains he re­ceived with a melancholy satisfaction within the peaceful shades of Notre Dame." There was an understanding, his son adds, that the Chapel should henceforth be known as the Brown-son Memorial Chapel. This seems to have been overlooked or forgotten. 
Bom of sturdy and homespun farmer folk, upright reverential Con­gregationalists (who make the com­mon denominator of the parish faith the parish faith of the common de­nomination.) At nineteen (1822) he joined the Presbyterians but left them after two years on account of their difficult doctrine of Predestina­tion. .A.t twenty-one (1824) a Uni­versalist (allowing everybody a 50-50 chance), being ordained a minister, nominally a Christian, but drifting steadily towards denial of all Rev­elation, the divinity of Christ, future judgment. At twenty-si.\: (1829) joined Robert Dale Owen and Fannie Wright in their fantastic attacks on marriage, property and religion. Dur­ing these years he talked and ivrote in behalf of the abortive Working-man's Party much in the tone, though not with the background or founda­tion, of modem papal teachings. At twenty-eight he flung his shingle (and his preaching) to the breeze as an Independent minister, thus start­ing a sect of his own, but a year later he "lapsed" into Unitarianism which has been humorously (and seriously) described as "a feather bed designed to catch Protestant souls falling into infidelity." Two years later he was a Congregationaiist (1834) and in an­other two years he again founded his own church group called "The Soc­iety for Christian Union and Prog­ress." His work was chiefly political and sociological for the ne.\t six years till in 1844—it happens to be the year when Notre IJame University was chartered—he was received (not too confidingly or amiably because of his religious odyssey) into the Cath­olic Church by the learned and affable coadjutor Bishop Fitzpatrick, of Bos­ton—the much-loved "Bishop John." 
Brownson's political, economic and sociological views were as rampant and various as his theological opin­ions over many years. Fancy this grizzled old stalwart for a time ap­proving the talented but eccentrie Fanny Wright in her war on private ownership of property, and what she called the servitude of marriage — this gentle young one who condoned and even waxed enthusiastic over promiscuity! And fancy him signing up with Robert Dale Owen in his attack on property and democracy— though extreme democracy would be indeed an intolerable and incredible thing. Extreme democracy w^ould be a plebiscite where Christ and Iscar­iot, (as some one has said) each has one vote. But whatever Brownson's opinions they continued his whole life long to challenge and intrigue the thinkers not only of America and England, but of France and Germany as well. In a period of powerful and famous publicists he was easily the greatest of publicists. 
At various times Brownson edited the following Protestant denomina­tional papers: The Gospel Advocate, The Philanthropist, The Boston Re­former, The Boston Quarterly Re­view, The Democratic Revietv. He was a prolific contributor to the other leading Protestant reviews and jour­nals and .after his conversion he wrote often for the Ave Maria, The Catholic World and similar publica­tions. His great lifework as a writer was done in his outstanding and mag­isterial Broionson's Quarterly Review, compared with which there is noth­ing published in English now. He was a mammoth, fertile Chesterton without Chesterton's color and risi­bility and vastly more than a Men­cken, though without the scarlet phrasing and the melodramatic at­titudinizing. 
His fame during life was world­wide. Richard Monckton Milnes (the first LordH^oughton) declared him the greatest philosophical min d America has produced. The dream­ers of Brook Farm eagerly welcomed him as friend and visitor. To the early Paulists, especially his fellow-converts Hecker and Hewitt, he was guide, philosopher and friend. The New England school of writers all knew and admired him. In his beguil­ing novel Elsie Venner, Oliver Wen­dell Holmes wrote: "I have had two religious books sent me by friends within a week or two. One is Mr. Brownson's; he is as fair and square as Euclid; a real honest, strong thinker, and one that knows what he is talking about—^for he has tried all sorts of religions, pretty much. He tells us that the Roman Catholic Church is the one 'through which alone we can hope for heaven.' The other is by a worthy Episcopal rector, who appears to ^vrite as if he were in earnest, and he calls the Papacy the 'Devil's Masterpiece,' and talks about the 'Satanic scheme' of that very Church 'through which alone,' as Mr. Bro\vnson tells us, 'we can hope for heaven'!" 
In his Fable for Critics, James Russell Lowell capers about in this abandoned way: 
"Close behind him (A. Bronson Alcott) is 
BrownsDn, his mouth very full 
With attempting to Kulp a Gresorian* bull: 
Who contrives, spite of that, to pour out as 
he Roes 
A stream of transparent and forcible prose: 
He shifts quite about, then proceeds to expound That 'tis merely the earth, not himself, that turns 'round And wishes it dearly impressed on your mind .That the weathercock rules and not follows the wind: Proving first, then as deftly confuting each side,. With no doctrine pleased that's not some­
where denied. 
He lays the denier away on the shelf. 
And then—down beside him lies gravely 
himself. 
He's the Salt River boatman, who always 
stands willing 
To convey friend or foe without charging a 
shilling. 
And so fond of the trip that, when leisure's 
to spare. 
He'll row himself up, if he can't get a fare. 
The worst of it is. that his logic's so strong. 
That of two sides he commonly chooses the 
wrong; 
If there is only one, why, he'll split it in two. 
And first pummel this half, then that, black 
and blue. 
That white's white needs no proof, but it 
takes a deep fellow 
To prove it iet black, and that jet-black is 
yellow." 
The great Cardinal Manning wrote to Brownson from England: "You see as I see, and your discernment confirms mine. You have so long and so powerfully maintained the author­ity of the Holy See in the midst of indifi'erence, liberalism, and half-truths that we all owe you a debt of gratitude; and the Church in Amer­ica will bear the marks of your tes­timony to the highest conviction of Catholic Truth. We have had one point in common. You, I believe, have always had a special devotion to the Holy Ghost. It was this that brought me out of darkness into light. .And it is this that has made the prerog­atives of the Vicar of Christ the first axioms of my faith." That Brown-son was intensely religious and per­sonally pious perhaps need not be said. He always wore a scapular, re­cited his Rosary daily at almost al­ways about the hour of dusk, and he always wrote with a statue of the Blessed Virgin beside the crucifix on his table. His son and biographer 
• Gregory XVI was Pope when Brownson was received into the Church and when Notre Dame was founded. 
says of him: "His constant medita­tion on the Trinity and the Incarna­tion not only enlightened his mind and guided his pen, but also excited in his heart such gratitude and love as had power to restrain him when tempted as strongly as man could be to rebel against ecclesiastical author­ity, like so many distinguished Cath­olics of his own time, or ever yield­ing in any degree to the desire of popularity." He often records that while doing an important or difficult piece of mental work he received Holy Conununion daily for a week for its success. (.A regular Notre Dame boy!) 
This, then, is the illustrious schol­ar, philosopher, publicist, convert, for whom Brownson Hall on this campus was named more than a half century ago. DePaul University has long given a literary cours based on the Philosophy and Opinions of Orestes Augustus Brownson. I umderstand our own Alma Mater is contemplating a similar activity. 
Two of Brownson's sons were of­fered as sacrifices on the altar of patriotism during the Civil War, and the valiant old Spartan never recov­ered from his grief. Another son. Major Henry F. Brownson, is the biographer in three volumes of his illustrious father; he is also a Lae­tare Medalist of Notre Dame. A daughter, Sarah M. Brownson, (Mrs. William J. Tenney) was the charm­ing biographer of the distinguished Father Demetrius Augustine Gallit­zin. -A grandson—son unto the medal­ist, Henry F. Brownson—^was Philip Van Dyke Brownson, an incredibly brilliant student in my time, the mid­dle Eighties. To tone down Phil's ardent romantic and adventurous temperament, his distinguished pater set him to work in a stove factory in Detroit. From that avocation Phil spontaneously graduated with aston­ishing haste and pursuing his own ways. He took service as a common sailor before the mast and died in a wreck off San Francisco a year or two after his graduation.* 
• The Biography of Brownson in three vol­umes, costing $3 a volume. The complete works of the great man comprise twenty volumes and are sold for S3 each. Other Brownson books are: "The American Repub­
lic: Its Constitution, Tendencies, and Des­tiny" ($1), "The Spirit-Rapper: An Auto­biography" (SI), "An Essay in Refutation of Atheism" S.60), "The Two Brothers: or "Why Are You a Protestant?" ($.60), "Uncle Jack and his Nephew: Conversations of an Old Fogy with a Young American" (S.60). "Lit­erary, Scientific and Political Views of Ores­tes A. Brownson, selected from his Works, by Henry F. Brownson." (SI—5). If readers should be interested in securing anything of Brownson's that is not out of print, an in­quiry addressed to the Ave Maria Office, Notre Dame, Indiana, will bring whatever in­formation is available. 
Lay Retreat Success 
Alumni, the ALUMNUS is pleased to note, played a much more promi­ment part in the success of the Fif­teenth .4nnual Laymen's Retreat, held on the campus August 3 to 6. Be­cause of alterations in the Church, the services were held in the Grotto, which, with fair weather prevailing, proved to be an ideal background. Rev. Joseph Hart, C.S.C, '24, was Retreat Master, with Revs. Thomas Kearney and Joseph Boyle exercising their customary genial efficiency throughout for the spiritual and phy­sical well-being of the 700 who at­tended. 
The closing and now traditional Communion Breakfast brought to ac­tive light the extent of the participa­tion of Notre Dame men. 
Last year's president, Pat Manion, '22, was toastmaster. Fathers Kear­ney, Joseph Boyle, Joseph hart, and Patrick Dolan spoke. Tim Galvin, '16, and Jim Deery, '10, represented the veterans of the Retreat. And Bob Proctor, '04, confessing to a relaxa­tion from the great work which brought him to the highest post in the Fraternal Order of Eagles a year ago, came to the rostrum as a "freshman" in the Retreat. He delivered a beau­tiful tribute to the spirit of the Re­treat and the spirit of Notre Dame which was enthusiastically received by old and new attendants. 
Among other alumni seen during the Retreat were Judge Eggeman, Tom Ruckelhaus, Vint Vaughan, John Heineman and his son William, Frank Dunn, Tom Hayes, Joe Petritz, Ray Snyder, and Al Feeney. 

McCuUough Loan Attorney 
Word from Dallas is that Frank .A. McCuUough, J.D., '29, former mem­ber of the N. D. faculty, has been appointed assistant state counsel for the Home Owners Loan Corp., with headquarters in Dallas. Frank still maintains a private office, 917 First Natl. Bank Bldg. With county at­torneys from 254 counties reporting through the main office, the weight and duties of the job become obvious. 


Hassenauer in Big Job 
Leo Hassenauer, '20, was appointed during the summer to the important post of first assistant to the United States Attorney for the department of justice in the northern district of the state of Illinois, with offices in the Federal Bldg., Chicago. Leo has been associated with Donald Rich-berg, Chicago attorney, now chief counsel for the NR.A in Washington. 






ATHLETICS: 
^ Y JOSEPH PETRITZ; 

Although Edward Walter Krause, left tackle, is the only returning 1932 regular, the Notre Dame football sit­uation has resolved itself into a ques­tion of who the quarterback will be and whether he can block. 
Nick Lukats and Ray Brancheau, halfbacks; Steve Banas, fullback; Hughey Devore, right end; and Tom Roach, right tackle; all had enough experience on the firing line ast year so that they might nearly be classed as regulars. "Alternates" was the term used instead of substitutes. 
Notre Dame, despite the ballyhoo surrounding the sophomore backfield, will be a senior team, albeit one prob­ably directed by a sophomore. 
The loss of Jaskwhich, Mui-phy, and Vejar by graduation, and the subsequent loss of Al (Lay On) Mc-GufT, when he decided to change his name to "Lay Ofr," have thrown the signal-calling job into a wide-open turmoil. 
Arch Ward, '21, looking over the prospects in his column "Talking It Over" in the Chicago Tribune points out that Gus Dorais, Joe Brandy, Hariy Stuhldreher, and Frank Cari­deo were great quarterbacks. Notre Dame had gi-eat teams when they played. Therefore, they wei-e re­sponsible for the greatness of these teams. 
Mr. Ward has seen more Notre Dame football than we have, but we humbly offer the suggestion that pos­sibly the conclusion reached by him might be true w^ith reverse English. Possibly, it seems to us, the teams were already gi-eat and the teams made the quarterbacks. The 1930 team, for example, was so heavy and fast and so deadly in its blocking that Carideo could call a bum one now and then and it would work any­how. 
Be that is it may, you should get acquainted with the most likely can­didates for this most illustrious posi­tion in 1933. Col. Heartly (Hunk) Anderson has stated that the quarter­back who can block will get the call. Bi-ains come second. If someone crops up who is a strategist as well as a blocker so much the better. 
Without saying anything one way or the other regarding gray matter until we see these sophomores under fire, it would seem that Tony Maz­ziotti of Elmsford in Westchester County, N. Y., is the stand-out at this ^^^iting. 
He is built for blocking. Five feet 7 inches of height, 190 pounds, heavy shouldei-s, and speed are his physical qualifications. He is not supposed to know quarterbacking. In his two years with Tarrytown high school and two years with White Plains high school, during the course of which he played in only one losing game, he was a halfback, probably the best in New York state, and generally ac­claimed as the best in the metropoli­tan district. 
"If he can call plays and then de­liver enough blocking to make them work, that's all I want," says Col. Anderson, explaining that the 6-3-2 defense amounts only to a nine-man line and that greater blocking guards and backs are needed than in the old days when all you saw were seven-man lines. 
Tony's superior in returning punts is Wally Fromhart of Moundsville, 
W. Va., another sophomore. From­hart weighs nearly 180 and stands 5 feet 11 inches. Across the Ohio Riv­er from Moundsville is Bellaire, the home of Bull Polisky, Johnny Nie­miec, Jim Harris, Joe Sheeketsld, and Reyman (Bud) Bonar, reserve quar­terback as a sophomore last year. Bonar is built along Carideo and Mazziotti lines, but on a smaller scale. His talents, if as great as Mazziotti's, are on the slide-rule standard and proportionally less than Mazziotti's because of his lack of size. 
The same is true of Frankie Gaul, diminutive-looking product of Water-ville. Me. Gaul is the lightest of the four outstanding candidates. He weighs 167 pounds and stands 5 feet 10 inches tall. He went to the finals of the university light-heavyweight tournament, losing when he received a broken hand in the first round. He finished his fight, however. 
The rest of the backfield is in good shape. Mike Koken has been lost at ­
You MAY SEE THIS LINEUP FREQUENTLY THIS FALL 
U E. Vairo: L. T. Krause; L. G. Wunsch: C. Gorman: R. G. Pivarnik:R. T. Roach: R. E. Devore: Q. B. Mazziotti: R. H. Brancheaa: L. H. Lukats: F. B. Banas. 
October, 19SS

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
left halfback. Nick Lukats, a rugged, hard-driving alternate of Koken's last year, and Andy Pilney, sophomore from Harrison high school of Chica­go who is being touted as one of the "finds" of the year, will take care of this position. Both are capable block­ers, open field runners, passers, and punters. 
Right halfback Joe Sheeketski was graduated in June, but he left behind him his alternate, Ray Brancheau, a senior; John (Red) Tobin, another senior, AI Costello, junior passing ar­tist, and Francis (Mike) Layden, a sophomore. Layden was sold on Notre Dame at the age of 11 years in 1924 when he sat on the bench and .watched his brother Elmer and the other three Horsemen pile up a 34 to 6 victory over Nebraska. 
The loss of George Melinkovich, high scorer and fullback in 1932, who was placed on some Ail-American teams and given honorable mention on all, will be sorely felt. No one else on the squad had quite the grace and rhythm "Mink" exhibited when he got into the open field or went after a pass. His illness of last June has made it impossible for him to play this year without serious dan­ger to his heart. 
Steve Banas, who stepped into the varsitj' ranks for Melinko\ich in sev­eral games, notably the Army game in New York, will undoubtedly start against Kansas October 7. Don El­ser, the 215 pound Garj' boy who stands 6 feet 3 inches tall and covers the century in 10.1 in track clothes, will see plentj' of action, however. So will Fred Carideo, reserve last year, and a cousin of Frank's. Dan Han­ley has joined the team again after a year's layoff and may prove of value later in the season. 
Coming to the line we find perhaps the best set of ends in Notre Dame history operating. The tackles are strong, with the reserve strength un­known. The guards are good but not phenomenal, and the same may be said of the center position. 
Both Ed Koskj- and Capt. Paul Host have been lost at the ends. Hugh Devore, right end, alternated with Host last season. He is probably the most aggressive blocker and tackier on the squad, .^iis tivo years of ex­perience have made him one of the smartest wingmen in the business. His understudies will be Irwin Davis, junior from Louisiana; Marty Peters, giant sophomore from Peoria; and Norb Rascher, senior letterman from Cedar Lake, Ind. 
Left end will be in the capable hands of Dominic Vairo, 190-pound six-footer from Calumet, Mich., the town which produced Hunk Ander­son, George Gipp, and Ojay Larson, stars of a decade ago. Vairo is keep­ing the ti-adition going. He will have Wayne Millner, sophomore, and Stur­la Canale, senior, as his rivals or un­derstudies. 
The ends of the present era seem to be larger than those of recent years, harder smashers, tougher, just as good pass receivers, and just as agile and smart. 
Ed Krause, who rated many of the AU-American teams of the past two years and all of the All-Western teams—as well as the All-American basketball selections—is a mainstay at left tackle. Tom Roach, who was Joe Kurth's understudy, but who al­most pushed Kurth out of his job at the close of the season, will be at right tackle. If nothing happens to these two, there will be no need of worries about the Irish fonvard wall at these two spots. 
The reserves are all new men. Dick Pfefferle, sophomore shock trooper last year, will not play this season because of an injur}' to his shoulder which was aggravated last spring when he was throwing the javelin. Young Joe Sullivan of New York City, whose dad was wrestling champ of the New York police force years ago, and whose cousin, Andrew Kelly ran the 300 meters in 1924 for Holy Cross in world record time, is fight­ing with Ken Stilley of Clairton, Pa., for the left tackle job. Johnny Mi­chuta, Detroit Golden Gloves and university heavy^veight boxing cham­pion, is at the other tackle, under Roach. 
Norm Greeney and Jim Harris, two of Notre Dame's finest guards, the latter an All-American on several selections, were lost by graduation. The return of Heniy Wunsch of South Bend to fighting weight, how­ever, is a cheering note. Wunsch was a sensation in 1931 as a sopho­more. His junior year was marred by his obesity. But now he is down to • the weight at which he used to sprint for the South Bend Central high school. Itocco Schiralli, who was slated for the position as a jun­ior, is taking second honors at this ^vriting, but may be heard from. 
Joe Pivamik, Bridgeport, Conn., senior has. the right guard berth practically sewed up, with his chief competition coming from Paul Schrenker, junior from Elwood, Ind. Pivamik is not as fast as Greeney pulling out to block, but he has all the other qualifications of a great guard. 
The possible loss of Jack Robinson, Jr., at center may weaken the team considerably at this point. He fought his way up to the varsity as a sopho­more last year and held the job most of the season. He was operated up­on recently for a cyst on his eye, an infection followed, and he has just undergone a second operation. He may be available later in the season, however. 
Tom (Kitty) Gorman, Chicago sen­ior, will carrj' on with the varsity, if he can improve his passing over last year. Gorman has all the other qual­ifications, and he won the center-passing medal as a sophomore. He was just erratic enough last season, however, to keep himself with the shock troops. His touch should re­turn this season under the steadying influence of living in Sorin hall. 
Fred Solari, who received a broken 

collar bone in a freak accident on the tackling dummy last year, was just getting Hunk's eye when the mishap • occurred. He had stopped the var­sity cold almost single-handed a few-days earlier in a vicious scrimmage session. His weakness, too, is pass­ing, but by the time the season opens 
this difBculty should be ironed out. 
So much for the team. "Hunk" ad­mits that in spite of losses and disap­pointments, he will have another strong club. The question is how good the opposition will be, in his opinion. 

NOTRE DAME'S FOOTBALL BE^UN TRUST 
Head Coach "Hunk" Anderson. '22; Tom Conley, '31: "Ike" Vccdisch. '28: Nordy Hoff­man. *32, and Marchy Schwartz. *32. 
MANY ALUMNI AMONG SUMMER VISITORS 
Kansas will furnish a stiff opening test October 7 at Notre Dame stadi­um with its contender for the Big Six title. One thing is sure, the Irish will not pile up any scores approaching those against Drake and Haskell last yfor. Indiana at Bloomington, Octo­ber 14, and Carnegie Tech at Pitts­burgh October 21, will also furnish great tests, and possibly upsets. All three of these teams have veteran material. 
Pittsburgh, victor by 12 to 0 last year at Pittsbui-gh, \\ill trj' to repeat on Cartier Field sod at Notre Dame October 28. This will be one of the highlights of the football year. Pitt has almost its entire team back from last year, including Mike Sebastian, who may not even make the team this year; and Muggs Skladaney, the end who caused so much grief in Irish' ranks last season. 
Navy \\-ill put a heavier than usual and more experienced team on the iield at Baltimore November 4. The Middies under "Rip" Miller, '25, have progressed fast and may make up that difference of 12 points which separated them from Notre Dame at Cleveland last year.. 
Noble Kizer, '25, a teammate of Miller's, \rill bring his blood-thirsty Purdue Boilermakers to Notre Dame November 11 for a ciWl war. And it won't be any mild skirmish, judging by advance reports from the Purdue camp. Purdue's schedule up until that game is fairly soft and it's no secret around Lafayette that Kizer is already priming his 12-threat back­field and reconstructed line for the game with the Irish. 
Northwestern's sophomore team should b.e fully developed and ready to make a strong bid to break the long streak of Notre Dame victories at Evanston November 18. Coach Dick Hanley is enthusiastic about his prospects, and he has always been a confiiined pessimist. 
The national champions of the past two seasons, Southern California, the successoi's to Notre Dame in the role of titleholders, with an all-veteran team, will -visit Notre Dame Novem­ber 25 in what may prove to be the most crucial and brilliant game of the year. Coach Howard Jones has lost only three regulars from last yeai''s Southern California team, and his replacements are just as strong, though not as publicized at this time as Capt. Tay Brown, Emie Smith, and Eay Sparling, the three departing giants. 
Army winds up the season Decem­ber 2 at New York City. No predic­tions are in order for this game at any time, let alone this early date. The Cadets have a number of veter­ans whom their new coach, Lieut. Gar Davidson, has only to fit into his scheme of things to give them one of the strongest combinations in the East. 
Many alumni were among the thou­sands who visited the campus. Some we saw in the OfSce, some we heard were here. Some we neither saw nor heard, and some—our job forbid—^we probably enjoyed so much that we forgot to remember. But as the office bird tells us, these were on campus: 
Jim Wasson, '13, San Leandro, Calif.; Leo DuBois, '15, Cincinnati; Daniel J. O'Neil, '25, New York, ac­companied by Daniel J. O'Neill, '26, Newark; James J. Walsh, '30, Brook­lyn; W. D. Jamieson, '05, Chicago; Ambrose O'Connell, '07, Washington; Maurice "Pat" Cohen, '27, Taunton, Mass.; Tom Kenneally, '30, New-York; Raymond Boyce, '32, New-York; James A. Ronan, '26, Chicago; 
C. M. Verbiest, '17, Detroit; Jack Chevigny, '31, and Tony Schreiner, '31, en route to Austin, Texas; Man­uel Arias, '13, Cardenas, Cuba; Phil Quinn, '28, George Dohcrty, '27 and Joe Rigali, '27, who brought Arch Ward and the Irish Fighters down from Chicago by automobile for a day on the campus; Jim Gerend, '33, and a brother from Sheboygan entering 
N. D.; J. W. Guthrie, '85, Alliance, Neb.; Vito Canizaro, '29, Vicksburgh, Miss.; W. P. Bums, '96, Michigan Cit}'; Raby Funk, '25, Amarillo, Tex., on his way to the K. of C. Supreme Convention as a delegate; Larry Mul­lins, '31, Atchinson, Kansas; James 
T. Doyle, '31, Chicago; Francis Con­nors, '28, Arcade, N. Y. on his first trip back; Dr. James A. Flynn, EI. '12, Washington, D. C; Jim Murphy, '31, Middletown, Conn.; Paul Flana­gan, '32, and two new students from 
Summer School Well Attended 
The University's fifteenth summer session enjoyed six weeks of activ^ity from June 20 to August 2 with an en­rollment of 664, considerably larger than conditions had led the adminis­tration to expect. The tone of the period was one of hope based on ener­getic action. Professors and students seemed to share the rising tide of confidence. 
Commencement witnessed the awarding of 124 degrees. The bril­liant address to the graduates by Dr. Daniel O'Grady is reprinted in this issue. Two of the degrees went to wives of alumni, an M.A., magna cum laude, to Eleanore Perry Engels, wife of Norbert Engels, '26, professor of English at Notre Dame, and a sim­ilar degree, also 7noi7Jia cum laude, to Emily Cripps Lemmer, wife of John Lemmer, '18, principal of the Escan­aba (Mich.) High School, and a member of the faculty of the Notre Dame summer session. 
Grand Eapids; S. A. Durbin, '29, New York; Joe Moran, '30, Tulsa, Okla.; Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '17, Pittsburgh; William H. KeUy, '19, Indianapolis; Bill Corbett, Ed Eyan, and Joe O'Donnell, three musketeers. of '27, out from a camp or a cult on the dunes; Joe Rafter, J.D., '30, Scranton; Paul Eomweber, '25, Bates-ville, Ind.; Andrew- Aman, Jr., Day­ton; Gil Prendergast, '30, celebrating passing of the Maryland Bar with a trip to the Fair with a friend; Henry Asman, '32, here with two entering Louisville lads; George Laughlin, '25, Chicago, here with a promising young fullback (3yrs. or so); Rev. Michael Shea, '04, Yonkers; John W. Ander­son, '31; Bob Rink, '24, Indianapolis; Tom Magee, '32, Philadelphia; Char­ley Mason, '26, Indianapolis, register­ing his brother-in-law; Jack Elder, '30, Bob Cunningham, '32, Chicago, escorting Rev. Patrick Maguire, A.M., '20, on with a C.Y.O. baseball team from Murray, Utah; Frank Kelly, 
'32, Wilkes Barre, Pa., and Henry Tholen, '32, Quincy, 111. 
Back and livening the campus with old familiar faces were the men who played on the Notre Dame AU-Stars in Chicago Sept. 16 against the Chi­cago Bears (also on the campus for a few days work-out): 
Harry O'Boyle, Joe Sheeketski, Marty Brill, Bemie Leahy, Mike Ko­ken, Laurie Vejar, Emmett Murphy, Tim Moynihan, Tom Yarr, Jim Har­ris, Ted Twomey, George Kozac, Al Culver, Joe Maxwell, Ray Marelli, Frank Mayer, coached by "Hunk" himself. 


 150,000 Summer Visitors 
The Century of Progress enabled thousands of persons, particularly motorists from East of this area, to. visit the Notre Dame campus. Im­mediately foUoOTng Commencement, the University published illustrated booklets which were given to these guests, and a stafli of eleven students was trained to guide the visitors to the principal points of interest. 
Cars with licences from every state and several foreign countries were seen on the campus. Parking lots at the campus entrance and around the Stadium doors were filled daily. The number oi persons visit­ing the campus, according to a check at the main entrance, is conservative­ly set at 150,000 between June 15 and September 15. The value of this personal visit to the campus, from the standpoint of acquainting these thou­sands with the real institution that stands behind the widely publicized Notre Dame football, can hardly be estimated. 

18 October, 1933
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 


ALUMNI CLUBS 
Club Secretaries are asked to have an item from each Club each month. Club activities of course ought to predominate, but individ­ual achievements or activities in the comzcunity can be used to ad­vantage. If the Club Secretary is away or negligent, other Club ofBcers should assume the respon­sibility. 

AKRON According to custom our annual golf and election partj- was held a few weeks ago, terminating the club's summer actirities. Lady golf reigned supreme during the afternoon, end­ing at the thirteenth hole, where Doc Chas. Doran, Fi-ank Steel, and Carl Schnun-, golf barons, held a driving fiesta. I understand that the Doc took all honors on this hole. 
The tired golfers and the rest of the gang gathered at the cabin where a very excellent meal, ^rith an ample portion of 3.2, was ser%'ed under the capable direction of bartenders; Joe Kraker, Harold Bair, and Glenn Smith. 
The President, Glenn Smith, then pad-locked the dining room and called the meeting to order. Immediately Joe Kraker was chosen to fill the president's chair, and Glenn Smith was elected to the office of vice-presi­dent, followed by the appointment of your correspondent as secretarj'. 
Franklyn Doan, '29, at present lo­cated in Akron, representing a pub­lishing company, was a welcome mem­ber of the party. 
Joe Kraker PROUD FATHER and the new president says he is going to bring his six month old son to the next N. D. gathering. 
Carl Schnurr will shortly make a trip to the campus. His main objec­tive will be the log chapel. 
Claude Homing. 

ARIZONA From Fred Steers, '11, Chicago, Class Secretary, comes a very inter­esting report that turns into a Club report from Arizona: 
Your postal card with reference to some '11 notes was forwarded to me at Tucson, Arizona. I am sorry to say that I have nothing of interest regarding the 1911 class. 
While in Tucson I saw James D. Barry, '97, who is the mainspring of the Alumni in that part of the world. I bumped into Grant Sears on the street. He was a pole vaulter back around 1913 and 1914. He was in an airplane accident while in service in 1917 and shortly afterward came to Arizona for his health, where he has been ever since. 
Eddie Collins is still one of the sojourners of Tucson. However, he possesses some of the characteristics of aristocracy, as he was in Prescott for the summer where it is much cooler. 
I also had the pleasure of seeing Angus McDonald, '00, who was pass­ing through Tucson on a business trip. 
I am sorry I can't contribute any more, but hope some day to have the pleasant experience of contributing an interesting column. 
CHICAGO 
Now that Sally Rand has been sen­
tenced to jail, possibly the other civic 
institutions will resume activity. Chi­
cago is one Local Club that hasn't an 
excuse in the world for appearing in 
this column as a ?. 
CINCINNATI 
Just a few rumblings from the 
erstwhile pen of the Secretai-y of the 
Cincinnati-Notre Dame Club. After 
spending some twelve weeks at Camp 
with young America, both boys and 
girls, I finally returned to a more 
quiet and subdued life at my desk 
in the office of the Catholic Charities. 
I have not been in close touch with many of the club members during the summer months with the exception of a call now and then from the Presi­dent, Bob Hughes, and visits on var­ious occasions by some of the Alum­ni here; namely, Harry Crumley, whose son I was happy to have at Camp for a period of two weeks, Leo Dubois, Class of '17, ana some busi­ness contacts with the Castellini Brothers, who furnished me with quite a lot of commission products. 

I was also very happy in the early part of July to be able to meet the Reverend Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, former Prefect of Discipline at the Universit}', and drive him to St. -'i.nn's Convent at Melbourne, Ken­tuckj', where he was present at the Ordination and First Mass of Father McNamara, brother of George Mc­Namara, Father of the Holy Cross Congregation. I was very happy to have Father O'Donnell visit my camp that evening and attend one of our camp-fire ceremonies, during which he gave us a very fine talk on Notre Dame men and Notre Dame tradi­tions. 
I returned to the city in time to 
see and hear the Notre Dame Glee 
Club who were being presented that 
week at the Palace Theatre, and had 
a very pleasant chat with several of 
the boys (I might mention Jack 
Egan), and also talked for a little 
while with Joe Casasanta, the director 
of the group. The boys put on a vei-y 
fine program and I believe Cincinnati 
was very well pleased with their ef­

forts. Bobbie Hughes, President, was able to get several of the boys to­, gether for a meeting with them a night or two previous. I was unable to attend, however, due to the fact that I was just closing the Camp and 
was not able to get away. 
Quite a number of the boys at­tended the World's Fair and, no doubt, while in the vicinity of South Bend made a call at the College. 
I have not much information at the present time on personal acti^•ities or doings of the group as a whole dur­ing the summer; however, we shall be starting our monthly meetings in October and at these talk fests, in all probability I ^^^ll be able to gather quite a bit of information to send you for the November ALUMNUS. 
Kindly remember me to all the good Fathers and Brothers of Holy Cross. 
W. D. Hogan Monissey. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
The good secretary of our Northern 
California Notre Dame Club, Bob 
Hill, has become so enthusiastic about 
Phillip Morris cigarettes that he has 
gone on the road selling them, and 
has asked me to drop a line to the 
ALUMNUS regarding our proposed ac­
tivities for the Fall. 
We expect shortly to open with a stag dinner at which time plans will be made for several luncheons dur­ing the football season when we can listen in on games in which Notre Dame is participating. Needless to say, we in California regret that Notre Dame has not taken on a game with the University of California to be played in San Francisco, but per­haps at a later date this can be ar­ranged. 
Slip Madigan has his boys at St. Mary's busily engaged smoothing up the heavy artillery for Pacific Coast action which wll begin for him in the very near future. Slip looks fine, and certainly keeps his age. 
Keene Fitzpatrick was one of the lucky boys from San Francisco to 

visit the Century of Progress Exhi­
bition at Chicago this summer, but 
the rest of us are biding our time 
until 1937, when we expect to be 
hosts to the world when the two big 
bridges will be open across the Bay. 
Clipper Smith, that dapper young 
gentleman who is coaching Santa 
Clara, arises to annoimce the birth 
of a daughter, Carolyn, Sept. 4. Both 
mother and daughter are reported do­
ing nicely. Clipper is working hard 
getting his aggregation in shape, and 
Buck Shaw is again assisting him. 
Bert and Sam Dunne handle a good 
deal of the publicity for Santa Clara, 
and they were giving the teams the 
once over during the secret practices, 
preparing for the California game. 
Ben Alexander, one of last year's 
football players at school, is now en­
joying the San Francisco climate, and 
is going to play football with the 
Olympic Club. 
Harry Burt, of Interstate Banquet 
Fame, is publishing a newspaper in 
Richmond, but still takes on a few 
assignments, singing over the air, 
and on other special occasions. 
Elmer Wynne has been a frequent guest in our fair City for several months. During this summer he took a boat trip to Seattle where he said he was looking over an opportunity to practice law. While there he slipped and sprained his ankle. We know about the ankle, but we don't know how he slipped. 
We are glad to have Arthur Clip-pinger as a new member of our Club. He is doing credit to Father Crumley as he is the Northern representative for the Miller System of correct Eng­lish. 
The writer is now connected with the Massachusetts Bonding and In­surance Company, and please note my change of address to 324 San-some Street, San Francisco. If any of the boys from the Class of '17 have a sheet of paper, a stamp and an envelope, I would appreciate hearing from them, and if there is anybody who reads this article, from the old 109 Brigade of Corby Hall, who re­members the fire-cracker incident, say "hello" to them for me. 
Please save a double allotment of good football tickets for the San Francisco boys at Los Angeles next year inasmuch as we can't handle any of the tickets for this fall. 
Royal Bosshard. 
CLEVELAND 

So much water has gone over the dam since I last saw you that at best this will be a feeble attempt to give you the dope on the boys in Cleveland. 
On June 15, we had our annual Wooster Party, a pilgrimage to Fath­er Mike Moriarity. A fine crowd turned out, 46 to be exact, among 
them Bemie Zipperer from the great town of AVarren. Gene Kane and Bill Gibbons walked off vnth the honors of the day in golf. You know our genial Chaplain has been appointed recently as the head of the Catholic Charities for the diocese of Cleve­land. Good luck to Father Moriarity. Harry "Red" Miller's two boys are following in the footsteps of their illustrious dad and doing big things in an athletic way. Tom entered a swimming contest in the 11-14 year class and took the honors of a gold medal and possession of the trophy for the event. Incidently he lowered the record by four seconds. His brother, Creighton, won the fourth prize in the same event though he is but ten years old. Paul Brady has a son, John, who arrived early in July, (another Glee Clubber who has qualified as a tenor, according to Paul, especially around 3 a. m.) Frank Belting passed out news by announcing that twin boys appeared at St. John's hospital on July 13. He now has three boys (future Notre Dame students). It has been rum­ored that John Butler, who has been recently appointed secretary to His Honor, Ray T. Miller, was seen wan­dering around the wilderness of East Cleveland one warm morning in July about 2 a. m. We hope it was noth­ing serious, John. Don Miller, of 'Four Horsemen' fame is the proud 
father of a baby girl, bom August 25, both the mother and the daugh­ter are doing fine. Pasquale Pirchio, of the faculty at school, visited with Frank Celebrezze on his way to New ' York and points east during August. Celebrezze has taken up agriculture as a side line to his prosecutor duties during the balmy summer days. An­nouncement has been made of the engagement of Jimmy Devitt to Miss Helen Slaughtery. The knot will be tied the latter part of November. 
Our Annual Summer Dance was held at Peter Schmidt's Lake Shore Gardens on July 28 with supper and entertainment. It was a great suc­cess and too much credit cannot be given to Gene Millif and his com­mittee together with the splendid cooperation of our vice-president — "Winchell" Haas, who by the way is turning "Benedict" on us. The lucky girl is Miss Alma Taub of this fair city. I have tried my best to convince her that she is getting a bum break, but evidently Gay is a better and more convincing talker than I am, even though it did take me three years to get by in Public Speaking. The two ^vill be made unus 
— a — um on Sept. 23 at the Log Chapel. Clayton Leroux ^vill be the best man or what have you and Tom Byrne, our ex-president, w-ill be the chief usher. Paul Castner has joined our number in Cleveland recently and 
is parking his feet either under or 
on the desk at the White Motor Co. 
Jimmy Driscoll has been showing 
some of the boys his worth on a golf 
course and has been very convincing. 
Dan Duffy is as busy as the proverb­
ial one armed paper hang^er on Ray 
Miller's mayoralty campaign. John 
Igoe bobs up once in a while like a 
bad penny from the thriving metro­
polis of Lorain. Dr. Ed Lakner and 
Dr. John Viktoryn have hung out 
their shingles recently as physicians 
and surgeons. I understand that 
Dr. Viktoryn has been giving a Mr. 
Thomas Byrne some very stiff oppo­

sition on the handball court. How 
about, Tom? Dr. Jos. Heimann has 
the comer on seeing that future N. 
D. and St. Mary's students sail safe­ly into port. Joe is rapidly becoming one of the leading obstetricians of Cleveland. Henry Newmark, of the class of '78 and one of the oldest living Alumni, is still the most active alumnus. He rarely misses any N. D. event. He is a true son of Notre Dame. The Hon. Joseph Smith is run­ning for re-election as Municipal Judge. Joe has an enviable reputa­tion for real justice. Both he and Ray Miller will have the unified sup­port of all Notre Dame men in their campaigns. Carl Wolfram surprised the boys by joining the married folks last month. Joe Thompson has re­ceived a new position as vice-presi­dent of the National City Bank of Cleveland; he was formerly affiliated with the Cleveland Trust Co. Matt Trudelle, our president, has been quite successful in the advertising business. Matt and his associate Henry Cresge, wielded a mighty golf club at our party at the Pine Ridge Country Club. The golf supremacy of our club was determined on August 26. Larry Krai romped off with the trophy with a low gross of 
77. The trophy will remain in his possession for one year when his right will be challenged for the new champion. Bill Ryan has been doing a lot of touring since he won a cour­tesy card at the party. The card was arranged by Stan Cofall. Mickey McMahon won the lemon for the high gross with a score of 129. I won a famous herring for the worst score on one hole for the day. Frank Cull was our Master of Ceremonies and he made a very pleasant evening for every one. Tom Carey, of the Public Utilities Department of the city was the guest of honor. Many fine compli­ments were given the committee for their iine party. The Glee Club moved in town on us and were guests of the Alumni Club at our regular Monday luncheon at Chuck Rohr's restaurant. Fred Joyce, of the Lake Shore Hotel, was their host at his Saturday Nite Party, Sept. 9, at a fine party. 

Pat Canny. 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA I have your recent letter and sup­pose it is about the deadline for news for the October ALUMXUS. Nothing much of moment here but we expect to get going before long and have a get together. I feel there are some new members in town who will be glad to join up with the Club and I believe we could have a fairly rep­resentative gathering. Personally I am hopeful that we will be able to iind some young blood who ivill be willing to get in and do the work. News of the local Club members is sparse. Dr. Flynn has recovered from the illness which incapacitated him at the time of your visit. Fred Wile is back from his vacation and ready to time up on the radio broadcasting programs. Bill Gahin at last reports is still about town and Bemey Hefer­nan still continues to flit hither and yon — mostly yon when you try to locate him. Father McGinn has been a frequent caller during the past few months and doubtless by this time is back on duty at the old stamping grounds. Among the new comers we hope to inveigle into our midst ere the Fall is over are Ambrose O'Con­nell, Pat Malloy and Frank Walker. All in all the new deal appears to be looking in the right place for tal­ent to best ser\'e the public. Ward Perrott is also in town and we hope to have him as a permanent resident. The boys at Holy Cross are back from the Summer vacation but have not yet been out to see them. Dutch Bergman is also on the job and ex­pects to have a good team this year. 
We are looking forward to a big time at the Navy game and doubt­less -ivill have a big demand for tickets. Jim Hayes. 
FORT WAYNE 

Upon my return from a two week's vacation at Clear Lake, along with George Flick, A.B., '28, and Frank Corbett A.B., '30, I found your card ' with reference to some news for the October ALUMNUS. 
In the month of August, we had the privilege and treat of hearing Pat Manion give one of his inimitable talks at an outdoor Democratic meet­ing which was attended by some 500. 
John E. Williams, A.B., '31, passed the Indiana State Bar Association during the summer and is now en­gaged in the practice of law \\ith Attorney Fred E. Zollars in the Stan­dard Building in Fort Wayne. 
Bob DeWald, '30, and Maurice De-Wald, '33, are making great strides in a business way assisting their father in the DeWald Service Stores, distributors in this district for Fire­stone tires. 
Jack O'Conner, A.B., '33 is at the present time working with J. C. 
O'Conner and Sons Construction Co. 
Bernard Broeker, A.B., '30, was in 
Fort Wayne for a time during the 
summer and is now practicing law 
with some firm in New York City. 
Frank J. Gilmartin, the president 
of our Club, has called a business 
and social meetting at which new 
officers are to be elected and which 
is to be held next week. 
The boys of course all plan on put­ting in their regular annual visit to the campus during the coming foot­ball season. 
Bob Eggeman. 
NOTRE CLUB OF FAIRFIELD COUNTY 
Dear Jim: We have organized a Notre Dame Club of Fairfield County, under the Presidency of James Murphy, '22. Tuesday, June 13th, was our second meeting, and was held at the Strat­field Hotel, Bridgeport. Our guest of honor was Johnny Law, who, by the way, is woi-king for the Beer Board of New York. We have hopes of making this organization one of the best throughout the East. Yours truly, Joseph E . RUSSO, '32, Sec. 
INDIANAPOLIS Here are a few lines concerning the doings of the Indianapolis Club: 
On August 17th we held our an­nual golf tournament at the Broad­moor Countri' Club, followed by a dinner. The new club champion is John Da\'is, '28, and some of the fel­lows thought this was fixed up, due to the fact that John had charge of the tournament. Other prize winners were Larry Sexton, '33, and Maurice McNulty, '26, who received a golf i-ule Book. Jim Kirby, who was co-chairman ^^-ith the champion, also came in for a prize. Harry Scott again haa the honor of carrying away the handsome tee-hammer for accu­mulating the most strokes while cov­ering the 18 holes. There was a fair­ly good turn-out. 
On September 14th we had quite a lai-ge meeting in honor of Mr. Am­brose O'Connell, special assistant to Postmaster General Farley . Mr. O'Connell was in the city to address the Kiwanis Club convention, and fol­lowing that we held a dinner at the Indianapolis Athletic Club. There were about one hundred present, and prominent among the guests were Governor Paul McNutt, Judge Mi­chael Fansler, of the Indiana Su­preme Court, Dr. Clarence Manion, foi-mer Alumni President, Democrat­ic State Chairman R. Earl Peters, and last but not least the Honorable Alumni Secretary. Bob Kirby pre­sided at the meeting and enlivened the spirits of those present with his humorous remarks. Mr. O'Connell gave a talk on the NRA, which was very favorably received, not only by 
those present, but also by the local 
press in their comments. 
Oonie Donovan, '31, was up from 
Bedford to attend the meeting, and 
told me that he is progressing quite 
well in the law practice in his home 
town. 
We are planning to have meetings 
each month, and present indications 
are that we shall have a good attend­
ance. 
Among those who have joined the 
ranks of the employed recently are 
Bill Habing, '31, who is now associ­
ated with the National Life and Ac­
cident Insurance Company; Bob Lep­
pert, '32, associated ivith a prominent 
real estate firm here; John Scanlon, 
'32, who is with the Indiana Bell Tel­
ephone Company, and working in 
Evansville. 
Walt Stanton, '30, is now in In­
dianapolis, and has joined the foi'ces 
of the Notre Dame fellows at the 
State House. Walt is connected with 
the Attorney General's office. 
The engagement of Bob Hilger, 
'31, to Miss Mary Helen Shea, of In­
dianapolis, was recently announced, 
and the wedding will take place the 
early part of October. 
Of much interest to his many friends -will be the news of the ap­proaching marriage of Bill Krieg, '29, to Miss Virginia Ballweg, of Indian­apolis. Bill is now practicing law here, having graduated from Har\-ard Law School. The marriage will take place the latter part of October. 
Bob Kirby, '28, was elected a vice-president of the Indiana State Jun­ior Chamber of Commerce, at their convention this past week-end at Ev­ansville. The convention next year will be held in Indianapolis, and Bob will be in charge. He is also a mem­ber of the Board of Directors of the Indianapolis Junior Chamber of Com­merce, and is becoming quite promi­nent in civic affairs. 
This is all for the present. I will have some more news for the next is­sue. 
John Rocap. 
KENTUCKY The following letter of May 29th was crowded out by Commencement. 
The meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky took place on uni­versal Notre Dame night, Monday, iipril 24th, on which occasion they had a good attendance. The election of officers for the ensuing year was held and the following were ushered in for the present term: 
Wm. A. Reisert, '30, President; Eugene Steurie, '25, Vice-President; Herman J. Ohligschlager, '29, Secre­tary; Phil Dant, '22, Treasurer. 
No definite program was an-anged, however, the officers intend meeting to see what plans may be mapped out for the year. 
Bill Reisert. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNOS 
Later Sec. Ohligschlager pens: 
Due to the Summer and Vacations 
our Club has been inactive. We are 
contemplating a meeting the latter 
part of this month at which time we 
will make a plea for dues, and I will 
inform you of the results and prog­
ress, immediately 
LOS ANGELES 

Sorry to have delayed in gi\'ing 
you what little dope I have on the 
Local Club and the boys out this 
way. 
The Club had its Third Annual Stag Barbecue at Daley's Eange in Las Flores Canyon the latter part of August. The usual good time was had by all but the "all" were very few. It looks like the depression has not left us out this way yet. Out of about 130 members only some 30-odd showed up. 
With the coming of the football season things will no doubt pick up. We intend holding our weekly din­ners at the University Club every Wednesday noon beginning Oct. 4. Last season our attendance was very good so we have hopes that it ^vill be as good this year if not better. 
There is little talk yet of the Notre Damo-U.S.C. game. Interest at pres­ent is centered around Tom Lieb and his Loyola Lions. They play U. S. C. the last of this month. Their game last year was one of the most inter­esting of the season so the fans are hoping for a repetition this year. 
Torn Lieb spent the summer in Wisconsin at Camp Rockne. Manny Vezie conducted a summer camp of his own up in the Malibu Mountains. From all reports it was a big suc­cess and Manny plans on a larger one next year. His wild game racket on the Costello Ranch in Calabassas is keeping shoes on Stanton Kreig Vezie the First. Sid Sidenfaden, '29, spent his two weeks vacation motor­ing through Idaho. Larrj' Moore, '29, spent his waiting for the Movie strike to end. Emmett McCabe, '30, looking for a new job and finally finding one under Jim Kelly, '03, with the White King Soap Co. The Daley Bros., '28 and '30, looking for more printing. Fred Pique, '29, planning his trip to Washington and points East. Baden Powell, '32, deserted the coast for a job in Gary, Ind. "Cack­els" Welch, e.x '26, bounced in from Texas ready to assist any one that needs a good man to bolster up his business. Enough for this time Jim, will try to be on time for the Novem­ber issue of the ALUMNUS. 
Ed Cunningham,. 

LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI Thanks very much for your card relative to Club news. Outside of a very enjoyable gathering we all had down at the Holy Cross College last 
spring, we have done very little dur­ing the summer months. 
Regret very much to report that 

Marchy Schwartz has been very sick 
this summer and was confined to a 
hispital at Gulfport, Mississippi, for 
quite some time. However, under­
stand his condition is very much im­
proved at the present writing. 
Has been reported to me that So­

lan Burke made a very good law-
connection here. 
My brother, Harold, and Edward 

have returned to school to complete 
their last year. Time certainly does 
fly, and the writer is anxiously look­
ing forward to being on deck ^vith 
you fellows their graduation day. 
We are anxiously awaiting the 

coming football season as we have 
another protege up there now by the 
name of Joe Beach, who should be 
ready this year to give a few of the 
boys on the Varsity something to 
think about in the way of holding 
down their first string jobs. We are 
not too optimistic at this stage in 
thinking we have another Schwartz, 
however, we look for him to go a 
long ways before he has finished his 
college career. 
Do not know whether I mentioned to you in my last letter the writer had the pleasure of a visit this past spring from Rome Dugan and his bride. In fact, they were down this way on their honeymoon. 
Pat Burke joins me in sending you our best regards. Cyprian Sporl, Jr. 
MILWAUKEE 

It was quite a surprise to me to hear that I had been elected or ap­pointed secretary of the Notre Dame club of Milwaukee. I thought that I would be elected vice-president in which capacity I would be required to do no work. I am sorry that I was absent from the office when your postcard arrived asking news of the club. I trust the few items I am sending will reach you in time for publication. 
John E. Martin, 1915-16, has been appointed as Assistant District At­torney for Milwaukee County. In this capacity he has been trying most of the important criminal cases and has been remarkably successful in the prosecution of murder cases. He is receiving prominent mention as successor to the late Judge George -A.. Shaughnessy who established a na­tional reputation for speedy justice and for making Milwaukee a crime-free city. 
Earl O'Brien, LL.B., '31, has opened law offices in the City of Mil­waukee. He formerly practiced in DePere, Wisconsin, but has decided to return to Milwaukee and is doing very well in the practice of law. 
Edward J. Yockey, LL.B., 1899, has 
been appointed Special Assistant Dis­
trict Attorney in charge of the Grand 
Jury in Milwaukee County and has 
been very active and successful in 
this office. 
Alfred Wihnot, 1926-27, has been 

appointed sergeant in the House of 
Representatives at Washington, D.C., 
and will probably be able to give any 
of the old Notre Dame Grads a front 
seat in the press gallery. 
Richard G. Cannon, '32, has been 

active in the Youth Welfare Move­
ment in Milwaukee and has charge 
of the Big Brothers' work in the 
courts of this city. 
Since the picnic of the Milwaukee 

Notre Dame Club held at the sum­
mer home of James Rank, 1927-28, 
the club has not been very active. 
Your correspondent is sorry to say 
that he was unable to attend this 
summer picnic but understands that 
due to the hospitality of Mr. Rank, 
the picnic was an exceptionally suc­
cessful one. It is planned to resume 
noon luncheons during the coming 
year. 
Thomas C. Kelly. 
NEW YORK 

Now that the summer vacations 
are over we wish to remind the Notre 
Dame men in New York, and also 
those that visit New York, that the 
club holds a luncheon every Tues­
day from twelve to two in The Hid­
den Inn, 21 Ann Street, New York 
City. 
On- the night of June 20th we wel­comed those graduates of the Class of 1933 who lived in the metropolitan . area at a Buifet Supper. The party was held in The Centre Club and was well attended. 
Eddie Dowling was to act as Mas­ter of Ceremonies but on account of sickness was unable to attend. Presi­dent William A. Walsh acted in his place and presented a very fine pro­gram. 
It has been brought to the atten­tion of several Notre Dame men in New York that there are two young fellows selling Pictorial Review who claim they are from Notre Dame. One is giving the name of Harris, • and is supposed to be the football player, and the other party's name is Tursee. We wish to advise anyone that comes in contact with these two people that they are in no way con­nected with the Notre Dame Club of New York, and also, as far as we know never had any connection with the University. 
J. N. "Doc" Gelson. 
WESTERN PENNSYLV-A.NIA 

Elmer Layden's Dukes won their first football game Friday evening, Sept. 15. The defeat of Waynesburg College 18 to 6 initiated the Colleg­iate gridiron sport for this year. 
October, 19SS

Elmer spent most of his summer in Davenport, Iowa figuring out scoring plays. The rest of his time was spent in improving his game of Golf. 
Edgar "Oats" Byrnes is anxious to renew his journeys to South Bend. He has already made claims to sev­eral of the seats located in the Alum­ni Box, though drawings for the tickets are held previous to each game. "Oats" claims it's his luck that secures the seats. Others believe "the hand is quicker than the eye." 
John Ryan's managerial schooling has done wonders since he has been out of school. He asserts that Mrs. Ryan is not the boss. 
Dr. Ignatius Hamel, Professor of Psychology at Notre Dame in 1922­2.3-24-25 has been instructor here at Duquesne since 1929. The Doctor wants to be remembered to his friends at school. 
John Eeardon, our worthy Presi­dent, is a terrible bowler. His aver­age last year was so low that it didn't even get into print. If prac­tice makes perfect, his score should take a leap this winter. He can't give us an alibi any longer. 
Jack Sheedy is looking forward to his first night out. As a benedict he is doing quite well. Mrs. Sheedy has OK'ed his request for an evening off the next Universal Notre Dame night. 'ttTiat a night—a renewal of old friends. 
Our Notre Dame Club is now hold­ing its luncheons at the Roosevelt Hotel at the corner of Penn and Sixth Aves. The luncheons are held every Thursday noon as previous. 
The Fall months always create new life in attentance. It must be the Football atmosphere that's in the air. AVe welcome any Alumnus that may visit our Smoky City. You need no written invitation. Just drop in, we'll be glad to see you. 
Plans are already in the making for a splendid week-end, that of the Carnegie Tech-Notre Dame game on Oct. 21st. Those coming can take in two games as Duquesne University entertains Detroit University on the evening before. I will be able to give you more details in my ne-xt writing. 
The dates for our second retreat at Saint Paul's Monastery have been set tentatively for Jan. 27, 28 and 29th. There were 32 who made the retreat last year and it is the club's ambition to set a new record for the retreat house which accommodates 60 persons. 
Elmer Layden and I expect to be in South Bend Oct. 28 to scout the Pitt Game. I hope to see you at that time. 
Joe Bach. 
PHILADELPHLA. 
The Philadelphia Club held its Mass for Rock on the anniversarj- of his death, with a verj- good attendance. An abject apolog}' is due you for our failure to turn out in numbers on the occasion of your recent visit, due to the holiday and misunderstanding on the part of the Club as to the exact time and date. That's no self-sop, however, for those members who could have attended and didn't. Too long have we been content to let the managerial genius of "Chief" Neeson and better than "die-for-Eutgers" pep of the brothers Degan make up for the laziness of the rest of us. 

Those three and the snap of your April editorial helped to make the Universal Notre Dame Night gather­ing more enthusiastic than usual. The potency of the newly liberated elixir was not the cause of a change in the policy of the Club: namely, the deci­sion of the old guard to lay down the arms they have carried so long and well and give the younger members the responsibility of administering Club activities and, consequently, a new set of ofiicers was elected from among the younger element in the or­ganization. The "old boys" however, declined to give up the treasurership and elected Jesse James as Mr. Wood­in's prototj'pe. They intend, obvious­ly, to check any spendthrift proclii"!­ties that might be generated by the young bulls. 
Getting back to THE meeting. Hariy Francis, ex-erstivhile, and still diminutive, center fielder, '30 and '31, was elected President; Marty Brill, whose LaSalle club challenges his Alma Mater, Vice-President; the above mentioned Jesse James, 'Treas­urer; and your endeavoring-to-be-lo­quacious correspondent, Secretarj'. With loosened tongues, memories of newer and older days flowed into the conversation, making the evening re­semble the old "bull sessions" of re­cent memoi-y. The usual regular crowd didn't sit around, wondering who was going to speak next. Pres­ident Bob Reagan, fortunately for Brill, didn't call for any lengthy ad­dresses. District Governor John Nee­son, missing his first meeting in near­ly twenty years, on account of illness, 'phoned his wishes for a pleasant eve­ning. 
In accordance with the belief that they shouldn't wait until after the newcomers have received their sheep­skin, the alumni are planning a get-together with the present students, and future alumni, for the second or third week in June. If out of it come some constructive suggestions in answer to your query as to how best contacts can be fostered between present students and alumni, they'll not be patented. 
While not strictly a Notre Dame gathering, the LajTnen's Retreat held at Malvern, Pennsylvania, the week­end of April 22nd-24th, captained by John Neeson for several years, at­tracted a number of members. It is his hope that the Philadelphia Club will not long be behind the larger-membership clubs that have staged their own reti-eats—a movement em­blematic of the lasting benefits that Notre Dame showers on her sons. 
Frank McManus, '31, is with the Town Garage and he isn't washing cars, either; Walt Ridley, '31, man about Cleveland-and-Philadelphia, has recovered from the slight injuries suffered in a recent motor car crash; Ed Hunsinger, '25, helped conduct Spring practice at North Carolina; Brill, like some other well-known-to-Chicagoans, is supervising two flower shops, when not teaching his backs to block a-la-Martin; Harry Stuhldreher, '25, and Bob Reagan, '24, are opti­mistic (a-la-Dobie) about Villanova's prospects ne.xt Fall; Cliff Prodehl, '32, looks as if he were still eating regu­larly; Joe Dalsey (how did that room a year with me?) has ti-ansferred his hunting ground from St. Mary's to Mount St. Joseph's, Philadelphia; Bill Bodo is shouldering his Dad's load of iron grills; Don Sullivan, '31, is pur­suing the goddess of justice at Penn­sylvania; Vince Donohue, '32, is help­ing to distract him there, while pock­eting his Master's degree; E. Bradley Bailey may be credited with some of those Campbell's Soup ads; Charlie Doughertj' wonders what coal men do in the Summer; Joe R. Farrell is keeping Governor Pinchot under lus thimib in Harrisburg; the old guard of G. T. and H. P. Degan and John 
T. Neeson '8b, stand oy. We wel­come Gus Desch, one time world-rec­ord hurdler (need we mention that?) to our ranks. There'll be more and others again, Jim. This is a new job for me. 
Tom Magee, '32. 
ROCHESTER 
The Club has been horribly inac­tive around Rochester lately. The younger boys seem to have been run­ning most of the acti\ities, which ac­tivities are inevitably some kind of a dance, and we old folks enjoy bach­elor's get-togethers more than a dance. Here's a little news that you may not know of. Norb Baglin was married on August 7 to Sylvia Fur­long, yours truly being responsible for it. I introduced the two of them on August 7 last year, prettv good, eh Jim? 
Jerry Morsches and his brother Doc were in town from Ft. Wayne a couple of weeks ago. Joe Doran is one of the big shots on the local 
N. R. A. Committee. Gerry Smith. 

SAN ANTONIO 

We had a fiery meeting last Friday night and so I am transporting to you the latest dope on our new club. 
First of all we decided to change the name of our club to the Notre Dame Club of San Antonio. We took into consideration the law of the Na­tional Organization about 25 mem­bers must exist to be a club—and de­cided that since we are only a few short of that number that you would be lenient to that extent. Then also in the past we have also invited the alumni members sun-ounding us as far as Laredo, which is 150 miles away, and we will continue this prac­tice in the future. (Personally they do not show up anyway.) 
The new officers are Harold Tynan, President, Al Heck, Vice-President, and myself Secretaiy. Incidentally our Vice-Pres. does not receive the ALUMNUS, and my address has been changed to 319 W. Graraercy. Al heck's address is 925 Bandera Road, 
S. A. Texas. Thursday night of this coming week we are haring a big get togeth­er and as our guests we are ha\ing the students now attending and those thinking of going up. Harold Tynan was at school about four weeks ago but you weren't in town at the time—asks me to pay his 
regrets. Kinvin J. Williams. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP SYRA­
CUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 

June 28th our Club held a golf and dinner at Skaneateles Country club with AaNCE BROWN and HUX­FORD in full charge. 
Sorry I was away and cannot give a better report of LEO KELLEY'S resume on Commencement which he attended with DUKE KINNEY. J. MURPHY, '33, of Cortland also gave a fine talk on attending Notre Dame. 
Sept. 14th, 14 local members at Eelle\'ue Country club. Prior to our fine dinner Huxford and Kellev tried a little golf. WILLIAM SULLIVAN runner-up in the South Paw tourna­ment was attending a banquet at the same club. N. D. fellows have their money on him for the finals. Thanks go to J. ECKEL for place arrange­ments here. . New attendants were JOHN HER­BERT, TOM DE LANEY and AL GOULET. 
President Vince Brown read a very 
fine letter from Father O'Hara. Our 
club is glad to report a renewed in­
terest in getting students for Notre 
Dame. Advertising for the ALUMNUS 
is being taken care of now and ex­
pect to hear of KINNEY, ECKEL 
and KELLEY all reporting success. 
The new combine course of Law 
and Commerce is a new deal that 
many of us wish we were in a posi­
tion to follow. 
Vince Goulet. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 

In spite of eluding its chairman, the Board of Directors of the St. Joe Valley Club has outlined a pro­gram for the year which, if carried out in whole or part, will make it one of the regulars herein. The first event on the Club slate is a dinner for Father O'Hara, the new vice-pres­ident. Committees are being ap­pointed for this and other later ac­tivities of divers nature, as the ALUMNUS hastens to press. 
TOLEDO 

If my copy fails to make the dead­line it is only because I waited until the last minute to report any devel­opment that might arise at the monthly meeting which took place at the K. C. clubroom on the evening of the 19th. Except for a golf tourna­ment early in June the club was very inactive during the summer. As a consequence your secretary made few contacts and his report must be nec­essarily brief. 
The business of the first meeting consisted of the installation of the new officers as follows: Fred Spren­er, president; Ed Haggerty, vice-president; Norbert Scharf, treasurer, and Joe Wetli, secretary. Plans were president; Norbert Scharf, treasurer, and Joe Wetli, secretary. Plans were made for a communion breakfast to be held on Oct. 8th, while a fine pro­gram was prepared for the balance of the year. The members voted also to endorse the candidacy of John Q. Carey, '27 who is seeking the office of judge of the Municipal Court of the City of Toledo. 
One of the tragic occurrences of the summer was the sudden death of the mother and brother of Robert and Ambrose Stoeppler ('27 and '31). 
In closing I wish to repeat that the Commencement program of last June was excellent in every detail. -Any one who missed it has plenty of cause for regret. With the sincerest wishes for another great Notre Dame vear I am. 
Joe Wetli. 
TRIPLE CITIES 

We had a joint meeting of the Triple-Cities Club of Notre Dame and the Triple-Cities Campus Club on September the seventh. A dinner was sei-ved at the Bennett Hotel in Bing­hamton, followed by a short business meeting. A talk was given by Rev. Joseph Toomey, '26, in which he told of the ideals of a true Notre Dame man. He urged a closer co-operation between the Campus and Alumni clubs of the Triple Cities in order to make for a greater Alumni club of the future, which could do much to further the ideals fostered by Notre Dame. 
The business meeting was called by the President, Joseph Carey, at which plans were formulated for the annual Christmas dance of the Club. 
"Both students and Alumni pledged their hearty co-operation to make it a real success. 
Joe Hennessy. 
TWIN CITIES CLUB 

My news is slim "on account of" I just returned a short time ago and find myself ear-deep in the throes of a new semester. I cast a telephone line yesterday for President JACK DOYLE but failed to land him. So it transpires that your thoughtful and efficient news query caught us short. 
Met JIM ALLAN at the World's Fair on my way down to Indiana in July. It was a happy moment; and I intended seeing some of that Chicago crowd on my way back, but had no time. 
Saw several this summer my old roomie, JIM CONNER, who is carry­ing on the successful policies of our leading ice and coal supply company in Elwood (Hoosierland). 
Bob Fogerty. 
THE WOMEN'S CLUB 

The Women's Club of the Notre Dame Alumni Association held its seventh annual meeting in Washing­ton Hall on Saturday, July 22, 1933. Sister M. Benedictus, C.S.C, pre­sided. The speakers at the business meeting were the Reverend Father O'Hara, C.S.C, and Mr. James E. Armstrong. Father O'Hara expressed the appreciation of the University to the Sisters for their part in the growth of Notre Dame's "front yard," saying that the increased at­tendance during the scholastic year had been synchronous with the growth of the Sisters' summer school. Mr. Armstrong made suggestions for future efforts of the club. He pointed out that the more the alumni would do for Notre Dame the more would be their own prestige. 
A resolution was passed making May 3, 1934, the Feast of the Find­ing of the Holy Cross a general Holy Communion Day for the welfare of the University of Notre Dame, her faculty, her students and her alumni. 
Sister Francis Paula, C.S.C, Sis­ter Lucy Marie, O.P., and Sister Monica, O.P., were named as the new nominating committee and Sister St. Flavia, S.S.J., Sister Leonilla, O.P., and Sister Francis, S.S.J., the mem­bers of the social committee. 
A pleasing program of musical numbers and readings followed the business meeting. Those taking part in the musical numbers were: Sister St. Flavia, S.S.J., Boston; Sister M. Francis, S.S.J., Rochester, N. Y.; Sis­ter Miriam Patricia, O.P., Newbnrgh, 
N. Y., and Sister Mary Vincent, next spring. Joe Young, who hails O.S.U., Paola, Kans. The St. Mary's from those parts, will be working THE. 
Vocal Ensemble sang "Ave Maria" 
by Franck and the Sisters' Orchestra 
under the direction of Sister Kath­
leen, S.S.J., played three numbers. 
Papers were read by Sister Mildred 
Cleary, O.P., Sister Roberta Staley, 
S.S.N.D., and Sister M. Aguin Gal­
lagher, 0. P. Sister Aguin in her 
paper advocated following the liturgy 
more closely in regard to the Mass. 
After the program refreshments of 
tea, sandwiches, cakes and ice cream 
were served in the faculty dining 
room through the courtesy of the 
University. 
The generosity of Mrs. Edward J. 
Coleman and Mrs. Patrick Clarke of 
Poughkeepsie, New York has made it 
financially possible for the president, 
Sister Agnes Alma to have printed 
the Articles of the Association and 
also a directory including the list of 
the members. These will be sent to 
each alumna. 
The Women's Club now has a mem­
bership of over five hundred com­
posed of Sisters and lay women who 
are graduates of the Summer Ses­
sions. Sister Agnes Alma, O.P., of 
Newburgh, N. Y., is the present 
president. 
Rose C. Steffaniak. 
'34 Spring Captains Chosen 
By Edward Van Huisseling 
The task of leading the Notre Dame's spring sports squads in 1934 has fallen on the shoulders of Vince Fehlig, "Butch" O'Neil, Joe Young, and Jack O'Hanlon. These men were elected captains of the golf, baseball, track, and tennis teams at the con­clusion of play last June. 

Jack O'Hanlon will head a crew of new comers and the remnants of last year's tennis squad. The '33 edition of net men piled up no envi­able record but its occasional bright spots were very noticeable. These outbursts of flashy tennis invariably found the captain-elect at their head. O'Hanlon's excellent play in the sin­gles matches ultimately landed him the captaincy. 
No one is more suited for the honor of leading Coach George Keogan's baseball nine than Larrj' O'Neil. "Butch" has been handling the slants of the varsity twirlers dur­ing the past two years and has done remarkably well. Behind the bat he has been a pepper box and a leader in his own right. At the plate he is a dangerous man with the willow when mates are waiting to score. 
The Atlantic Coast region has sent Notre Dame one of its best middle distance stars to lead the track crew wth the Irish mentor to better the 
accomplishments of last year's aggre­
gation. This should not be so hard 
to accomplish, but when Joe tries to 
improve upon the showing he made 
on the cinder paths he will find 
trouble. His performances this spring 
were of such high caliber that exceed­
ing them seems to border on the im­
possible. 
Vince Fehlig, who helped the Irish 
in their showing in the National Inter­
collegiates in June, will lead the golf 
team. Vince has been knocking on 
the door of fame with brilliant play 
on the local course for two years and 
should be an able leader. 
Brother Cyprian's Jubilee Brother Cyprian, C.S.C., professor in accounting at Notre Dame for 36 years, celebrated the golden jubilee of his religious profession in the brotherhood of the Congregation of Holy Cross on the feast of Saint Mary Magdalen, July 22. 
Bom in Covington, Kentucky, on Nov. 2, 1857, Brother Cyprian was graduated from the Hollingworth Business College there in 1876. He came to Notre Dame in 1895 after having taught for 16 years in various parts of the country. He received the habit of a Brother of Holy Cross in 1879, and on July 22, 1883 he made his perpetual vows. 
For the many years that he has been associated with Notre Dame Brother Cyprian has been one of the most beloved figures of the Univer­sity. His oft repeated advice, "Work and Pray" has been the motto of thousands of Notre Dame men. 
A long illness culminated by three heart attacks necessitated his retire­ment from his professorial duties in 1931. From 1895 until this time he was also in charge of activities in Washington Hall where he lived, and served both as director and chairman of the Philopatrians for many years. 
His acquaintances with the many notable personages of the theatrical and scholastic worlds who visited Notre Dame during these years are numerous and outstanding. 
Church dignitaraies, political lead­ers, prominent artists, lecturers and other famous celebrities are num­bered among the friends whom Broth­er Cyprian has made during these years. 
The ALUMNUS happily joins the numerous friends in greeting the ven­erable Jubilarian. 






ALUMNI 
Class Secretaries are requested for the present year to make every effort to have items in each month. Members of Classes are asked to write to the Class Secretary fre­quently. The absence of news of your Class when it occurs is due most entirely to your failure to advise your Secretary. 
A number of statistics appear in the Class and Club columns exclusive of the following classifieti and oHicial returns. 

BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES A. TOOHEY, '08, announce the arrival of a son, James Russell, on June 2, Chicago, Illinois. 
A note from LARRY O'LEARY, '2a, tells us of the birth of Mary Alice on July 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. WALTER D. HALL, '25, announce the arrival of Mary Jeanne on August 13. 
A letter from ROBERT J. SER­VATIUS, '28, announces the arrival of a son, C. 'Tony, on April 30, Utica New York. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH BREIG, '28, announce the arrival of Mary Imelda, June 21, in a special edition of the 
Vandergrift Neivs. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES P. CANNY, '28, announce the arrival of a daugh­ter, Catherine Claire, June 30, Cleve­land, Ohio. 
Word was received of the birth of a daughter, Ann Fleur, to Mr. and 
•Mrs. WILLIAM BROWN, '29, on August 7, Racine, Wisconsin. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOS. S. MORRISEY, '28, announce the arrival of Jolin Thomas, July 11, Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES C. COL­LINS, '25, are the proud parents of a son, Charles C, Jr. bom July 4, Chapel Hill, North Carolina. 
Word from Washington tells us that GEORGE VLK, '31, is boasting about a baby girl, Valerie Ann, who arrived at the \^k's Sept. 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLARD CROX­
ALL, '32, are the parents of a daugh­
ter, bom Julv 1, South Bend, Ind. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES WOODS, '32, annoimce the birth of a son, Bruce, Jime 25, South Bend, Ind. 
-^ announcement was received from Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT IRMI­GER, '27, upon the birth of a daugh­ter, Rita June, on June 22. 

Class Secretary Buckley announces that Mr. and Mrs. J. WILLIAM KIR­WAN, '28, are the parents of a daughter, Elsie Celeste, bom Sept. IG, Portage, Wis. 
A very clever announcement was received from Mr. and Mrs. PAUL 
J. PFOHL, '22, upon the arrival of Paul John, on August 12, Chicago, Illinois. 

MARRIAGES 

Mr. and Mrs. Frank C. Clemens announce the marriage of their daughter, Anne Rackett, to Mr. HAROLD P. FISHER, 'OG, which took place July 16th in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. Michael J. McCrud­den • announce the marriage of their daughter, Florence Marie, to Mr. EDWARD CLARK RILEY, '20, on .'August 19th at the Church of St. Katherine of Siena, Wayne, Pa. 
Miss Helen Cahill of Dixon, 111., was married on Sept. 2, to SHER­WOOD DIXON, '20, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Burke an­nounce the marriage of their daugh­ter, Helen to ROGER J. KILEY, '23, on June 20th at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Marguerite Walsh, of Chi­cago, married J. DANIEL CUL­HANE, at Notre Dame on Sept. 2. 
Miss Eloise Shannon Greenwalt, of Indianapolis, Indiana, and EUGENE 
M. FOGARTY, '24, were married July 15 in Indianapolis. JOHN T. FOG.A.RTY, '23, served as best man. 
3Ir. Charles 0. Drexel announces the marriage of his daughter, Char­lotte Amelia, to EDWARD WOL­LENSAK, '24, on July 8, in Roches­ter, New York. 
Miss Madelyn Marbaugh, of South Bend, Ind. and PAUL SAGSTET­TER, '25, were married on Sept. 2, in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. 
Mr. and Mrs. Harry H. Geary announce the marriage of their daughter, Gretchen Katherine, to GEORGE F. FITZGERALD, '25, on August 31, in Clean, New York. 
Mr. and Mrs. Claude E. Griffith an­nounce the marriage of their daugh­ter, Mary Virginia, to JAMES JO­SEPH GLYNN, '2G, which took place August 2nd in Terre Haute, Ind. 
Miss Constance C. Carr of Nutley, New Jersey and CARLETON E. SAUNDERS, '27, were married August 19, in New York. WALTER HOUGHTON, '26, of Newark served as best man. 
Mr. and Mrs. Cornelius Lynde an­nounce the marriage of Miss Mar­garet Emily to EUGENE V. O'BRIEN, '27, on Sept. 16, in Win­netka. 111. 
Mr. Frederick Wm. Heinicke an­nounces the marriage of his daugh­ter, Julia Anne to JOSEPH RICE SIMONIN, '28. 
Miss Margaret A. McLaren and ROBERT GRANT, '28, were married in South Bend, Indiana on Sept. 17. 
Miss Mary Nyerges, of South Bend, and JAMES EDWIN WHITE, '28, were married at Our Lady of Hungary Church, South Bend, In­diana, on July 15. 
Miss Geraldine O'Donnell was mar­ried on June 17, to WALTER MUL­FLUR, '29, in St. Patrick's Church, East Chicago, Indiana. 
Mrs. Jessie C. Fesemyer announces the marriage of her daughter, Ethel Mary, to JAMES K. RUSSELL, '29, on June 7th in Donora, Pa. 
Miss Mary Ellen Colrick, of South Orange, New Jersey, and JOHN P. SMITH, '29, were married on August 19, in South Orange. JOHN COL­RICK, '30, is a brother of the bride. 
Miss Billee Anne Byars and TER­R.A.NCE HAL L OR AN, '29, were married on August 21, in Santa Bar­bara, Calif. 
3Iiss Mary Pennefeather, Kenosha, Wis., married ANGELO GALDA­BINI, '29, on Sept. 2, in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Miss Eleanor Cecile Rumrill and JAMES G. O'KEEFE, Jr., '30, were married August 19, at St. Rose of Lima Church, Newark, New Jersey. 
Miss Evelvn M. DiroU and JOS­EPH HENNESSY, '30, Johnson City, New York, were married in August at St. Joseph's Church, Mishawaka, Indiana. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robertson T. Ar­nold announce the marriage of their daughter, Mary Carolyn, to JOHN MINER HUGHES, '31 on June 27, in Jacksonville, Fla. 
Miss Avis Richards, South Whit­ing, Indiana, and VIRGILIUS PHIL­LIPS, '32, were married in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame on June 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph W. Kershaw announce the marriage of their daughter, Anne Ursula, to LEO T. CLARK, '32, on Sept. 7, at Our Lady Star of the Sea Church, Atlantic City, N. J. 
Miss Lois E. Robinson, Kewanee, Illinois, and LEO GARLAND, '31, were married on August 23, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
The marriage of Miss Alice Brans­dorf and GEORGE F. HENNION, '32, South Bend, Indiana, took place on August 23, in Dillon Hall Chapel, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Miss Madelyn R. Stein was married 

on June 25, to HERMAN A. ZIFF­
RIN, '33, in Mishawaka, Indiana. 
Miss Angela Probst, South Bend, 

Indiana, and JOHN H. McNAMiVRA, 
'33, were married on August 2, at St. 
Joseph's Church, South Bend. 
Miss Marguerite Tncker, Shreve­port, La., and HENRY HOEKA, '30, were married on Sept. 21, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Miss Alma Taub, and GAYLOED HAAS, '29, were married Sept. 23, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, Ind. 

DEATHS 

Mr. JOSEPH D. OLIVER, a stud­ent at Notre Dame in the 60's died in South Bend, August 6. Mr. Oliver was the President of the Oliver Chilled Plow Works for many years. 
Word has been received of the death of CHARLES H. WAGNER, '89, on Jime 28, in Los Angeles, Calif. 
Et. Rev. Msgr. ST. JOHN O'SUL­LIVAN, '98, died July 23, at San Juan Capistrano Mission, Calif. 
Rev. JAMES H. McGINNIS, '00, died on July 22. Father McGinnis, graduate of the American College in Rome, priest of the Archdiocese of New York, for many years a noted preacher on the Archdiocesan Mission Band, and at the time of his death, pastor of St. Mary's Rectory, Pough­keepsie. New York, died while on va­cation in Medway, Massachusetts. 
Mr. WILLIAM A. McINERNY, '01, of South Bend, died suddenly on July 7. Mr. Mclnemy, a prominent lawyer in South Bend was President of the Alumni Association in 1916, and a Trustee of the Association in 1918. 
We have received word of the death of AUGUST H. BOLDT, '13, on May 4, in Detroit, Mich. 
A letter from the mother of JOHN 

F. DOUJAK, 27, teUs us of the death of John on Jime 28, Fort Smith, Ark. 
John A. Bartley, '25, writes us of the death of a classmate, ELBERT BURSON, of Litchfield, Illinois, in August. 

PERSONALS 

Before 1880 The Questionnaire brought back some very interesting mail, among which was the following lettter from MATTHEW BAEBOW TOEBETT, '73, life member of the National .4ssn. of Certiiied Public Accountants. Mr. Torbett lives at 272 O.xford Place (N.K.) Atlanta, Ga. Received your "Questionaire for all Alumni" of Notre Dame. While I have never considered myself a real and true alumnus, having taken only a commercial course and received a certificate from the professor of said course, but as you have honored me by considering me as one of/you, I have endeavored to make a full and 
October, 1933

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
complete answer to the questionaire and other information, as suggested. 
One fellow student who was my desk-mate in the study hall, Alfredo Home, Montevideo, Uruguay, was closer to me than any other, and I would like to know if you have any record as to whether he is still living, and if so, his address. • 
I often wonder if the little leaflet "College" news, the Scholastic, is still in existence. Send me a copy if it is. 

If you have an "air view" or some such picture that gives a good view of the present grounds and buildings, would thank you to send one to me to place here under the glass on my desk alongside of one of 1873, so that I can have a "then and now" com­parison, which would show the won­derful advancement of our old col­lege. You know, it was during Fath­er Sorin, or, as we named him. Father General's time. Father Le-Monnier was the president (fonner­ly from Paris, France), a wonder­ful man whom we all loved and ad­mired, especially members of our "Boat Club," he being our president, advisor and really "coach," and when we were in training sat at the head of our special table in the big refec­
tory. 
As to athletics, we had also a gym­nasium, a frame building, but fully equipped, etc. As to football, only the old Rugby game, just kicking the ball, not so strenuous as it is of this day and time. My love for all kinds of athletics caused me to engage in all its lines, and I came home quite an athlete, and I have always given my experience, etc., at Notre Dame due credit for my unusual physical condition through the many years I have passed. 
One of my greatest desires has been to be able to be present at one of the commencement exercises, and hope to be able to do so yet. Have only been back since 1873 once, back in 1925 or 1926 I was in Chicago on business and took a day off and went down to the University, out from South Send by electric car. At the Notre Dame terminus fell in with several of the students, but it was during vacation time. One of the boys, a brother of Don Miller, showed me around. But everything was so different and strange. The old main building in which we "studied, slept and ate," had burned and a new building built in its place. 
On our return to the street car I had the pleasure of meeting Don Miller, and also met him here in At­lanta afterward while he was coach­ing at our Tech. 
Well, I have intruded on your time far too long, but you know how it is with an "old man and his memories." So with all good -ivishes and best re­gards, I will close. 
From JUDGE THOMAS GAL­LAGHER came a letter introducing a friend who visited the campus as a part of a trip to the Century of Progress. Judge Gallagher continues to preside over the District Court of Fitchburg, Mass. 
1880-1885 
The Golden Jubilee of the Class of '83 at Commencement time brought to light that that active Class, 50 years later, was still active. 
MSGE. J. J. BURKE wrote from St. Mark's, Peoria, III.: "I regret my inabilitj' to attend the Golden Jubilee of the Class of '83. It was my inten­tion to be there this year but the acti\aties connected with the closing of our school prevent it." 
VvM. J. MCCARTHY wrote from the Washington Hotel, Cincinnati: I regret exceedingly that I will not be able to attend. I am a w-orking man and my time is not my own. . . My best wishes are always with Notre Dame and I send congratulations to all my dear friends of the Class of 1883. May they live long and pros­per." 
Came also the following from the ARNOLD BROTHERS, EUGENE and WILLIAM, 1633 Thirty-First St. Washington: 
"Eugene F. Arnold deeply regrets that he shall be unable to attend the Commencement this year and the Re­union fifty years after graduation of the Class of 1883, of which his es­teemed brother. Dr. William H. Ar­nold, was Valedictorian, and who was also then the winner of the Univer­sity's first gold medal for English, in prose and poetry, zealously com­peted for that year by a number of his distinguished Classmates Through his distinctly clear Alma Mater precious memories always sac­redly enshrined in his heart, Eugene Arnold ^vill be truly present in spirit at the Reunion, thereby living over again by-gone college days never to be forgotten, and so happily passed at dear old, forever devoutly loved, Notre Dame." 

Regrets were also received from DR. ALBERT F. ZAHM, distin­guished Class scientist, now in the aeronautics branch of the Congres­sional Library. 
1886 
JOHN W. GUTHRIE, visiting the campus this summer from Nebraska, was both interested and interesting in connection with the retouching of the art of Gregori in the Sacred Heart Church. Mr. Guthrie gave many interesting reminiscences of Gregori and his work at Notre Dame during the time Mr. Guthrie was a student. 
1887 
"The class of 1887. I wonder some­times if and where there could be anything that would be interesting. The class in course was so small, you know in those days the Law Class was not recognized as Alumni, which since has been changed and they are recognized and I must say this is right and is as should be. 
"Those in course at that time of 
the Class of 1887 consisted of only 
five, JOHN KLEIBER, JOHN WAG­
ONER, WILL O'CONNELL, HUGO 
ROTHERT and myself. Bernard 
Becker was really of the class of 
the previous year. He was from Mil­
waukee but some few years ago 
passed to the beyond. Jack Kleiber 
was Valedictorian, no class history, 
poem or any such. As to John Wag­
oner, he has never been heard from 
since graduation, just simply disap­
peared out of the picture. I have 
tried many times to get something 
about him but absolutely nothing. 
Have been wondering if Kleiber got 
caught in any way in the late hur­ricane that gave Brownsville such a swipe. 
Outside of John Wagoner all mem­bers of the class in course are yet in the land of living, although Roth­ert is in bad shape physically and living in Camden, Ark. I have been wanting to take a trip there, having some land interests and visit with him, but it seems to be about impos­sible to get away principally because of conditions here. 
"This is not much, but something anyway and ^vith my best wishes and knowing our Alma Mater is still go­ing strong in every respect, I remain, 
Warren Cartier. 
1888 
With a new seminary near Taun­ton, Mass., and the building of a novitiate at Interlaken (near La­porte, Ind.) which will do away with the present novitiate on the Notre Dame campus, REV. JAMES A. BURNS, C.S.C, Provincial of the Order, has had something to think 

about this summer in addition to the Cubs' pennant rally. 
The Class Secretary and son BILL HEINEMAN, '29, came up from Connersville, Ind., for the Lay Re­treat at Notre Dame, August 3 to 6. 
1889 

SAM KAUFMAN, student in the Minims, returned to Notre Dame dur­ing the summer for his first visit since those distant years. He is a merchant in Louisville, Ky. 
1890 

REV. JOH N CAVANAUGH, C.S.C, has kindly consented to con­tinue his most interesting book re­views for the present volume of the ALUMNUS. This will be a source of delight to Classmates as well as to all other readers. Illness was troub­ling Father Cavanaugh somewhat as this paragraph is written, but high hopes for an early and healthful re­turn to the campus are the order of the day. 
1891 The following item from a local paper tells an interesting story: 
FREDERIC WILLIAM WILE, of Washington, D.C., an imdergraduate at the University of Notre Dame in the years 1889-1891, and honorary LL.D., (1924), of the university, has presented to Notre Dame for inclu­sion in the Wightman Memorial Art gallery a picture of his father, the late Jacob Wile, of LaPorte, Ind., in token of the latter's many years of interest in Notre Dame's earlier days. 
Jacob Wile was an intimate friend and business adviser of the Rev. Ed­ward Sorin, C.S.C, founder and the first president of Notre Dame. Their association began in the late 60's and lasted until Father Sorin's death. Scores of transactions connected with the business affairs of Notre Dame aand its allied interests were con­ducted by Mr. Wile on behalf of the University. He was a banker in La-Porte. 
The entire Wile family maintained friendly ties \\-ith Notre Dame's lead­ers, many of whom were frequent visitors at the spacious Wile home in LaPorte. Names like Maher, Cor­by, Hudson , Lemonnier, Kirsch, Zahm, Walsh, Morrissey, French, Re­gan, Hoynes, Ett-ing, Egan, McCue and others were household words in the Wile family. Four of the sons were students at Notre Dame, while three daughters attended adjacent St. Mary's college. 
The portrait of Mr. Wile is the work of a young Washington artist, Rowland Lyons. 
1892 

In spite of variety in activity, lo­cation, etc., no definite news has come from '92. Even DUDLEY SHIVE­LY'S imposing figure is seen locally only occasionally, going to Commun­ion in St. Joseph's Church or riding peacefully with Mrs. Shively. (Oh, sure, he works—the writer just doesn't happen to be about the sixth floor of the Associates Bldg.) 
1893 

PROF. EDWARD J. MAURUS was recently advised of his election to a Fellowship in the American As­sociation for the Advancement of Sci­ence. This society recognizes the mer­its of those persons professionally en­gaged in scientific work, which in­cludes "teaching or directing research in an institution of repute." Prof. Maurus has a fellowship far broader than this new one, one long since awarded to him by the hundreds of boys who have shared advancement in the scientific world through his generosity, but who will be the first to applaud this further recognition. 
1894 

"I know you would like by Sept. 20 Class notes of '94, for the October ALUMNUS. However, it is quite im­possible to do things that way in New York. I know very few members of that class alive and they are pretty well scattered. In fact, there are only two or three that I know of— Bill Correll, Chris Fitzgerald, Frank Caniey and that is about all that are left—at least all I ever get any word from. I do not believe I am going to satisfy you in this matter. With ev­ery good wish, I am, 
Hugh A. O'Donnell. 
1895 

No word from the Class Secretary. With two sons graduated and carry­ing on the CuUinan traditions on the coast—Eustace, Jr., in Frisco, and Matt in Los Angeles, at last reports, possibly the guerilla warfare be­tween the cities has taken toll in the secretarial homestead. 
1896 

The Class Secretary has been an occasional visitor, what with the new school year being of considerable in­terest to Ginn & Co., and the Provin­cial being no more distant relative than the 35 miles, between here and Michigan City, removes a brother. 
1897 

Word from REV. JOHN MAC­NAMARA brings the good news that Father Mac, in addition to retaining interest and proximity to all of the Notre Dame activities in the East which have been so much a part of his life there, is going to enjoy a new location, at least part of the time, at an estate near Baltimore. Father Mac, as you could have bet your first pay check, spent a day enjoying and encouraging the Glee Club in their Brooklyn appearance. 
1898 

The boys who launched a "Hot Time In the Old Town Tonight" seem to be spending very quiet summers. 
1899 

REV. THOMAS A. STEINER, who does odd jobs around Notre Dame — dean of the College of En­gineering; supervising engineer for all of the construction work from repairs to new buildings; confessor and conductor of religious ceremon­ies making him a close second to Father O'Hara; and other jobs that solicitous friends spend nights cre­ating, is enjoying the new Novitiate project which will utilize the Com­mimity's property at Interlaken, near Laporte, Ind. Father Steiner has also had a colorful summer with the gilding of the dome, particularly the dark and stormy night which saw the scaffolding crash through the roof of the Main Building. 
1900 

The Laymens Retreat on the cam­pus August 3 to 6 brought back again the conspicuous and always wel­come figure of JUDGE JOHN W. EGGEMAN, whose work for this pro­ject has kept Fort Wayne among the civic units leading the attendance. 
1901 

CHAUNCEY YOCKEY, perennial Elk leader, came into his own with the national convention of the genial fraternity in Milwaukee this most propitious summer. The press was jammed with praise of Chaunceys arrangements for the big show, along with his brilliant record of achieve­ment in the Milwaukee branch of the Elk world. 
1902 

The Editor enjoyed a very pleasant evening recently at the home of VI­TUS JONES in South Bend, discuss­ing affairs of a group of Catholic young men. You can take that either way. Classmate. Vitus himself is as young as you'd ask for, with son FRANCIS, '29, about the only re­minder that a. '02 man was "mixed with the boys." 
1903 

The boys from Philadelphia enroll­ing this year once more pay eloquent tribute to the activity and leadership in that City of JOHN H. NEESON. The title "Chief" which the young alumni there have given him is much more than a recognition of his prom­inent post as Chief Engineer. It is recognition of a Notre Dame leader­ship that has been the inspiration of 
October, 19SS

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS-
changing ofiicers of the Club. Hap­py to report that John's health, had for a while, seems to be on the up. Among the boys from Philadelphia on the campus again this year is JOHN 
H. NEESON, o... 
REV. MATTHEW WALSH, C.S.C, speaking of health, seems to be look­ing better. REV. J. L. C.A.RRICO, C.S.C, will probably feel much bet­ter when the annual tangle of credits is cleared up in his office as Director of Studies. 
A prominent '03 name that is kept alive on the campus is that of PET­RITZ. Frank's son, JOE, '32, is do­ing a very able job in the publicity field for Notre Dame. Also a Sports page for this issue of the ALUMNUS. Joe says that Petritz Beer, while not a direct family enterprise this time, is once more the pride of Rockford. 
1904 
Honor comes to '04 through the following account of recent honors and brilliant career of TH0M.4.S D. LYONS: 
Thomas D. Lyons, 50 years old, Tulsa attorney, recently was ap­pointed by Governor Mun-ay to fill the vacancy created in division 2 of the district court by the death of the late Judge Owen Owen. 
Lyons, a Murray supporter, first attracted public attention here as a close political friend of the gov­ernor tvvo years ago when he led dele­gates from the Democratic county convention to form a rump conven­tion. 
The appointment of Lyons to the district court bench came as a sur­prise to Tulsans, although the attor­ney had always been mentioned as the strongest candidate for the ju­dicial bench. After Judge Owen's death the governor emphatically stated he would not fill the vacancy because of economic reasons. 
Liyons was bom in Burr Oak, Iov,-a, July 2, 1883, the son of Mr. and Mrs. Richard F. Lyons. He received his 
A.B. degree from the University of Notre Dame in 1904, his LL.B. de­gree from the Universitj' of South Dakota in 1907. 
Judge Lyons was admitted to prac­tice law in 1907, and 10 years later was permitted to appear before the supreme court of the United States. Since coming to Tulsa in 1907 Judge Lyons has also been active in the oil business. He is a director of the First National Bank. 
In 1920 Judge Lyons was delegate at large to the Democratic national convention at San Francisco. He was a member of the charter committee which sought to provide a citj' man­ager form of government for Tulsa. He was nominated by the Democratic state convention of South Dakota for state superintendent of schools in 1906. 
He was appointed for a four-year tenn as a member of the Oklahoma supreme court commission in 1923 but resigned December 1, 1925, to return to Tulsa and engage in the private practice of law. 
In Jime, 1927, he was appointed a member of the charter revision com­mittee for the cit}'. Governor Mur­ray named him a regent of the Uni­versity of Oklahoma in 1932. He was a delegate to the Democratic na­tional convention at Chicago in 1932. He was appointed receiver in the famed Oklahoma river bed cases in October, 1929. 
During the World war he enlisted in the United States army as a pri­vate and was honorably discharged from the infantiy central officers training school at Camp Pike, Ark., December 7, lyx8. He is captain of Company C, Third infantrj' of the state national guard. 
Two years ago Lyons sued the city of Tuisa for $17,500 claiming this as a fee for legal work he contended he did for the city in the Woodward park litigation. The fee has not yet been paid. 
Judge Lyons is the author of "The Law of Oil and Gas," "The Oil Op­erator in Oklahoma," "Schools and School Districts of the State of Okla­homa." 
He is a member of the Oklahoma Historical society, International Law association. Delta Theta Pi, Catholic club. Democratic club, Petroleum club, Tulsa Countrj- club. Univer­sity club. Bankers of America, New York Athletic club. The family resi­dence is at 1313 South Peoria ave­nue. His law offices are in the Hunt building. 
REV. MICHAEL (VICTORY 5LARCH) SHEA, to use cun-ent mag­azine practice, was a recent and most welcome visitor on the campus. 
1905 
In the ordinary events of Class history, the LL.Ds., who have at­tained a high rung of the ladder whose bottom step their contempo­raries in course are gi-asping, become inactive as the Class begins to iden­tify itself in world aff'airs. But JUDGE MARCUS KAVANAGH of Chicago sets a pace for actirity on the bench that belies all custom and tradition. 
1906 
The Editor sat next to the Hon. WILLIAMP. O'NEILL, Indiana's se­curities commissioner, at the Indian­apolis Club's dinner for AMBROSE O'CONNELL, '07, recently. 
You'll find several '06 notes else­where (general importance)—FA­THER CHARLES O'DONfffiLL'S happy convalescence, HAROL D FISHER'S wedding, FATHER GENE BURKE'S Ave Maria, etc. ' 
1907 
In the notes above, mention is made of a dinner for AMBROSE O'CuNNELL, special assistant to Postmaster General James A. Farley. See Indianapolis Club news for fur­ther details. Ambrose looked fine at the Indianapolis dinner, and con­fessed to be gaining weight in spite of the public and private oratoiy his very responsible position demands. He is living at the Mayflower in Washington for the time being. 
PAT MALLOY is another '07 man in the national spotlight, as assistant attorney general. With his custom­ary vigor and ability he has already become a prominent figure in tliis de­partment of the administration. 
The tragic death of the Class Sec­retarj^ T. PAUL McGANNON, was reported in the special summer bul­letin of the ALUMNUS. Members of the Class are asked to suggest Paul's successor, as Secretarj-. 
1908 
LEROY KEACri was at the head table of the O'Connell dinner in In­dianapolis in September, still looking as hale as would be expected of one of the country's leading commission men. 
1909 JOHN W. SCHINDLER has been re-elected president of the Mishawaka Chamber of Commerce. FRANK WALKER has continued to occupy one of the seats of the mighty in a most creditable fashion as Secretary of the President's emer­gency cabinet. 
ED CLEAiiY has been a most wel­come resident of the campus during the summer. Ed seemed to get a great deal of pleasure from his re­turn and was, in turn, enjoyed. 
1910 
The following, to relieve the Secre­tary's modesty, was taken from a newspaper clipping supplied by HAR-Ri MILLER, who, like all members of the Class and every N. D. man both ways from it, gloried in the sup­plj'ing: 
REV. mCHAEL L. MORIARTY, pastor of the Church of the Immacu­late Conception at Wooster, Ohio, since 1922, was notified Aug. 10 of his appointment as successor to Rev. 
C. H. Le Blond as director of chari­ties and hospitals in the Cleveland Catholic Diocese. 
Father Le Blond, who had held the office for more than tiventy years, re­

cently was appointed bishop of the 
diocese of St. Joseph, Mo.. 
Father Moriarty, a native of Ash­

tabula, Ohio, is a former Notre Dame 
University athlete, receiving mono­
grams in track for three years. At 
Notre Dame he majored in the clas­
sics after having studied at St. Jos­
eph's parish school and Ashtabula 
High School. His philosophical and 
theological training was received at 
St. Bernard's Seminary in Rochester, 
N. Y. He was ordained by Bishop John P. Farrelly on May 29, 1915. 
Father Moriarty was graduated from Notre Dame in 1913 and was a close personal friend of Knute Eock­ne. After Eockne's death Father Moi-iarty officiated at memorial sei-v­ices for the coach in St. John's Ca­thedral here. He is chaplain of the Notre Dame Club in Cleveland. 
In his new position Father Moriar­ty will be in charge of the general welfai-e work for Catholic families in the diocese, and also will have gen­eral supervision of the work of such welfare institutions as Parmadale and St. Joseph's orphanages in Cleve­land, St. John's, St. Alexis' and St. Ann's Hospitals in Cleveland, St. Elizabeth's Hospital in Youngstown, St. Thomas' Hospital in Akron, St. Joseph's Hospital in Lorain, St. Jos­eph's Hospital in Warren, and Mercy Hospital in Canton. 
1911 

EEV. FRANCIS J. "WENNINGEE, C.S.C, Dean of the College of Sci­ence, was elected to a fellowship in the American Association for the Ad­vancement of Science, during the past summer. Father Wenninger's personal achievements and his bril­liant work as Dean of his College are too well known to require an elabora­tion of this formal recognition. 
JAMES E. DEERY was on the rostrum of the Indianapolis Club's tribute to Ambrose O'Connell in that city recently. 
"The Bog," latest, and many say best, of the novels of Ireland from the happy pen of the REV. P. J. CAREOLL, C.S.C, will appear very soon in book form, having run seri­ally in the Ave Maria. Unlike the recent juvenile books by Father Car­roll, "The Bog" is a more serious presentation for adults of the prob­lems of Ireland, though not lacking in the rich humor and color which en­livened his previous tales. 
JASPER LAWTON, enjoying a beautiful residence within sight of Notre Dame, is an occasional visitor in the Office. 
REV. CHARLES C. MILTNER, C.S.C, is back in the midst of his arduous duties as Dean of the Col­lege of Arts and Letters, after having conducted the summer session held at Columbia University, Portland, Or­egon, by the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
1912 "Immediately upon the receipt of your card asking for news of the 1912 class I sent out cards to 52 . members of the class advising them of your wishes, a copy of the card is enclosed. I got a total of ONE reply from DONNELLY P. MCDON­ALD of Fort Wayne. Here is what he has to say: 
"Dear B. J.: I have your card asking for 1912 class Notes. I can give you no in­formation concerning any members of our 1912 Class as I am not in touch with any of them. As to myself, I am pleased to tell you I am busily occupied trying to fill the position of secretary-treasurer of The Peoples Trust and Savings Company, having been in the banking business for about twelve years. I am married and reside with my family, consisting of vdie and four children, at 466 Englewood Court, Fort Wayne, In­diana." 
I am rather disappointed in the response of the class to my request. This is the second time that I have been favored with one reply from the entire class. When I was elected to this office I had plans to do many things in order to bring the class closer to itself and likewise to the Alma Mater, but after an experience Like this I get cold feet and do noth­ing, however, I will bombard them with missies of various potencies from now on. Perhaps it is too much to expect to make a hit on the first ball delivered. 
The twenty-fifth anniversary is only less than four years away and if the class is going to make any kind of a showing at that time, the pepping up program cannot be started too soon. What say ye? 
B. J. Kaiser, '12. 

"I have a card from B. J. KAIS­ER—Class secretary, 1912 — asking me to shoot you some information in connection with myself as a member of the class of 1912. Jim, there isn't a thing to write about except that I just returned this morning from a nice automobile trip to New York City and Hartford, Connecticut, our Home Office. Business was much bet­ter with us in August than it had been any month this year—I imagine everybody is interested in the up­turn of business. We are confiden­tly expecting the last four months of 1933 to be practically as good as the first eight months were so far as business is concerned. 
"I missed a meeting here last Fri­day at which FATHER VINCENT MOONEY of Notre Dame spoke to prospective students of Buifalo and vicinity. I was mighty sorry to miss 
seeing Father Mooney and having a 
chat with him and also to miss the 
meeting. I haven't yet learned how 
it came out. 
Spent some time at my camp in 
Michigan with my family and DR. 
ROBERT J. BURNS of Buffalo who 
took his pre-dental work at Notre 
Dame along about 1915. Bob had his 
family up at the camp also. They 
returned direct to Buffalo but my 
family and myself went over to Chi­
cago and saw the World's Fair and 
then dropped in at Notre Dame on 
our way back. All you fellows were 
gone when we made our call. All in 
all it has been a successful summer. 
Here's hoping that every member of 
the class of 1912 is happy and pros­
perous. 
Jay L. "Biffy" Lee, 1509 Liberty 
Bank Bldg., Buffalo, N. Y. 
1913 
FLOY D O. JELLISON, South Bend attorney, attended the National convention of Spanish-American war veterans durLig the summer, an or­ganization with which he has been very actively indentified. 
1914 TWOMEY CLIFFORD wrote from Arkansas this summer that he had a boy who was very interested in com­ing to N. D. and looked like this was the place for him. But between a raix-up in correspondence and dates of "HUNK" ANDERSON'S coach­ing school at Hot Springs, the inter­view planned never materialized and ' Twomey is reluctantly asked to exert his personal interest until a better connection is made. 
1915 
REV. WILLIAM BOLGER, C.S.C, returned to Notre Dame this Fall with glowing accounts of the prog­ress of EMMETT LENIHAN'S legal and forensic ability. And when Fr. Bolger glows, it means something. 
1916 WARD PERROTT is now in Washington, D. C, playing an active part in the New Deal. TIM GALVIN, whose election to the Supreme Board of the K. of C is listed for more general consump­tion in this issue, is an occasional visitor. Rumors are that the NEA has hit Tim in various stimulating ways, about which these columns hope to report in detail later. 
1917 My last contribution to the Notre Dame ALUMNUS did me a lot of good, for it brought me one of the most pleasant evenings I have had in a long time. DAN HILGAETNER called me on the telephone shortly after he read my notes, along with one OSCAE 
October, 1933

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JOHN DOEWIN, '17, and later a graduate from the Harvard Law-School, and had us out to dinner at his home. Oscar had just come to Chicago from dow-nstate. He is coim­sel for a large oil company and had moved his activities to Chicago. 
Well, Oscar and I enjoyed the Hil­gartner hospitality from beginning to end. Mrs. Hilgartner is a wonderful hostess—and you all know Dan. And I can't let the item end without say­ing a word about young Dan, as fine a lad as you'd want to meet, and, in my humble opinion, "a chip off the old block." 
The only other 'seventeener I have seen recently is J. PAUL FOGARTY. Paul is quite a radio celebrity now. He is the "Captain Paul" of the morning setting-up exercises over WGN, and the originator of "Big Leaguers and Bushers," the skit made famous by that colorful char­acter — "Rube Appleberry." Paul, himself, plays the part of "Mac," the baseball manager. Perhaps you've noted the similarity between "Mac's" manner of talking and that of the immortal Rock. Paul's got it down to a "T." Incidentally, Paul also con­ducts an hour for the kids. All in all, he's a pretty busy chap. But work seems to agree with him, for he cer­tainly appears hale and hearty. 
Recently I had the pleasure of meeting PHIL SNYDER, 'IS.' Phil and the missus were visiting in El­gin as the guests of TOM HOBAN, also of '18, and Mrs. Hoban. Phil is now in the law business for himself in Buffalo after a long period with Donovan and Reichle. 
And now I must give you a bit of news about myself. I am the proud father of a second daughter, Nancy Ann, bom August 18. My older daughter, Mary Ellen, was nine years old on August 24. Mother and daugh­ter both doing fine, thank you. 
Finally, I must emulate the fam­ous "Wake of the News" in calling Help! Help! If you chaps of '17 don't come through with some news, I don't know what I'll do for notes next month. Write me at my business address, 520 North Michigan Ave., Chicago, or my home address, 104 South Union St., Elgin, HI. Let's hear from you soon. 
EEV. IVO H. MCELROY, O.F.M., is the correct title since June 13, when he was ordained at the Shrine of the Immaculate Conception, Wash­ington. Father McElroy celebrated his first solemn Mass on June 18 in St. Mary's Church, Bridgeport, Conn. A delegation of the Fairfield County alumni attended. Father McElroy has returned to Washington for a year of further study in the Fran­ciscan College. 

ARTHUR J. HUGHES, attorney announces he has closed a lease for the entire thirtieth floor of the Bank­ers Building for a period of five years. He and his associates, R. A. Bullinger, Frank Michels, Frank C. Ludwig, AVilliam J. Holterhoff, WIL­LIAM J. MILROY, '13, Laurence V. Meyering, J. A. Greaves and FRANK 
H. KLAAS, '27, are moving their offices from 134 S. La Salle St. 
Mr. Hughes was •vice president and general counsel for the National Bank of Chicago. The greater part of Mr. Hughes' activity has been de­voted to banking and corporate prac­tice as well as corporate financing and reorganization procedure. 
1918 

JOHN A. LEMMER was one of the members of the summer school faculty this year, and enjoyed the unusual privilege of seeing Mrs. Lem-mer receive a Notre Dame degree. Pew N. D. men have N. D. wives. 
1919 
Classmates will regret to learn that one of the children of CL.4RENCE "CHICK" BADER has been in a Chi­cago hospital for a number of weeks recently with a bone infection. 
1920 
Not much sensation in '20. Any­one downtown in South Bend is more than likely to meet DILLON P.\T­TERSON, DR. JENNINGS VUR­PILLAT, or Assistant Prosecutor HARRY RICHWINE, all pursuing a rapid tenor in their respective fields. 
1921 

AL SLAGGERT seems to be just about the same type of regular fel­low that has, unfortunately made succeeding dynasties of cheer leaders suff'er from comparison. Al's person­ality and integrity have been put in a most opportime place by the presi­dent of the Detroit Bar Association— that organization's committee on legal ethics and professional conduct. 
1922 Pat Manion is now a director (ex­officio) of the Alumni Association. As president of the alumni during the past year, Pat was highly successful in that office bringing his determined and forceful opinions into play at a time when constructitve action was necessary. It is our humble belief that future presidents of the associa­tion will strive to emulate the ster­ling performances of the administra­tion whose destinies were so ably guided by the genial and capable Pat Manion. The class of '22 is now honored By 


TAKE ASPIRIN­TAKE ARSENIC­TAKE ANYTHING-
but by all means 

Take TIME 
— the weekly newsmnfrazinc — curt. clear, complete—S5 by the year. You can also place new or renewal sub­scriptions to FORTUNE. SAT. EVE. POST. COLLIERS, or any other home or ofTicc periodical throuRh me. Write on a penny post card your ma^zines and renewal dates—I will remind you to send remittance through 
BOB MURPHY, '26 
2113 Cambridge Albuquerque, N. Mexico 

having one governor and four lieu­tenant governors from its member­ship as officers of the Alumni Asso­ciation for the coming year. Frank Bloemer is governor of District XII, which district comprises Southern In­diana and the states of Kentucky and Tennessee. Eddie Pfeiffer is lieuten­ant governor of the same territory. Danny Coughlin is lieutenant gover­nor of Minnesota, AVisconsin, and the Michigan iron country. Lieut. Gov. Jerry Jones is responsible for Nor­thern Illinois, Iowa and Nebraska. Chet Wynn, who holds the same rank as Coughlin, Jones and Pfeiffer, holds sway in Alabama, Georgia, and Florida. 
Gene Kennedy, feeling greatly re­freshed after a sea trip from Los Angeles via the Canal, descended the gangplank of the Grace liner 'Santa Lucia' at New York on Sept. 19, flicked the ashes from a giant per­fecto, and started out to see what's what on the Atlantic seaboard. Os­tensibly Gene's trip is merely a pleas­ure jaunt, but rumor persists that Los Angeles has been not so hot of late. Maybe Gene believes that Tam­many Hall has had something to do about the changed weather conditions 
LIVINGSTON'S CAMPUS SHOP 
NJJ. PEXXANIS 50C to S3.00 NJD. BLANKETS S12.50 
MONOGtl.lMMi;D JEWELRY 
COMPACTS $3.50 to $6.00 PENDANTS . $5.00 
List sent upon request 

in southern California. Gene expects to return to the Coast by rail after spending some time in New York and Chicago. 
Grand E.xalted Ruler Frank Bla­sius of the Logan, Ohio Elks recently made a trip to Milwaukee to attend the national convention of Elks which was held in that city. Jerry Dixon and Joe Farley had a Tea in Fran-kie's honor at the Blatz Casino as he paused in Chicago to see the Fair. 
It is just possible you have not 
heard that: 
Rodge Kiley is an alderman in Chi­
cago. 
Jerry Dixon is assistant attorney 
general of Illinois. 
Worth Clark holds the same office 
in the state of Idaho. 
George Kerver is located in Cleve­
land. He sells general insurance. 
Harold Weber deals in insurance 
and real estate in South Bend. 
Eddie Anderson is Head Coach of 
football at Holy Cross. 
Jim Jones has a son who looks, 
talks and acts like the old maestro. 
Jim proudly admits it. 
Morgan Sheedy is still single. Be­
ware of the fan mail—Morgan! 
John Paul CuUen who is still with 
the Veterans Bureau in Washington, 
made a trip last summer visiting 
most of the veterans hospitals west 
of Chicago. 
John Hart is with the C.C.C. Motor 
Transport Co., of Cleveland. 
Clark Riley was recently married. 
He is- living in Rochester. 
1923 A card from JOHN M. RICE about Commencement time reported the bad news of John's illness, which had kept him in the City Hospital, Cleveland, for several months. He asked to be remembered to the Class and the University. CY KELLETT, writing from Mil­ford on other business, mentions TOMMIE McINTIRE, student in Corby in '19-'20, a half-miler. Later he was in big league baseball, but gave that up for the Mclntire Brass Works, Boston, which now, Cy says, furnishes headquarters for the in­formal alumni meetings in Boston, particularly to JIM DOOLEY and JOE DESMOND. JOHN COCHRANE wrote from Toledo last June e.xplaining his ab­sence from the Reunion with the very edifying occasion of his oldest son's Confirmation. The Class Secretary has now moved, family and all, to Cleveland, where he is with the White Motor company, affiliated with the Stude­baker Corp. 
1924 JOE RYAN, member of the fac­ulty of the Department of English 
since 1929, was taken ill this sum­mer following attendance at Mar­quette's summer session, and is re­cuperating in Tucson, Ariz. Joe's ad­dress there is 1610 E. First St. Joe is a brother of Quin Ryan, WGN an­nouncer. 
Just because the Class of '25 put out the Dome, some people (Hayes) think that that same illustrious group will continue to do their literary work for them. (Scalian takes a lot of the sting out of that crack, because the Dome evidently left him muscle­bound in the pen-finger too.) 
But if it wasn't for seeing the Religious like Fathers CHARLEY MC­ALLISTER, TOM KELLY, LEO FLOOD, PHIL MOORE (now that he's back with all of the Continent's Mediaeval lore, on the campus,) '24 would be my forgotten men. I do hear of BEN PISER now and then. REGISTRAR BOB RIORDAN helps the laity, and HOWARD HALEY turns up a bit more now that the trucks can move in the daytime. But if I were a member of the Class of '24, I'd write Hayes a letter, 5th Ave. Ass'n, Empire State Bldg., giving him my biography, and then my idea of his, and see what happens. If he jumps out of the Bldg., several hun­dred candidates for his job are there. If he just jumps, maybe he'll come down on a tjiie^vriter. Personally the Editor has forbidden his wife to buy a thing from Fifth Avenue until 
Hayes  comes through.  What  a  boy­ 
cott!  
1925  

If SCALLAN has read the above, let it apply — except that the shop­ping interdict be changed to daylight train riding only. 
DR. ED LAKNER, now ofiicing in the Carnegie Bldg. in Cleveland, writes: "If there's one thing I regret, it was my inability in the past to re­turn to Notre Dame for an occasional visit. Completing a long tieup at the 
U. of Michigan, St. Alexis, Lakeside, the Boston Lying-in Hospital, and as resident in chief at St. Ann's Mater­nity Hispital, I'm settling down in my own office for the practice of medi­cine and surgery. Being my own govr ernor from now on, Notre Dame will be my next vacation. 
JOE FITZPATRICK is \vith the Florida National Bank and Trust Co., Miami, providing hurricanes have left said institution exposed to business. 
In Indianapolis — what a source of news that trip was — I saw GEORGE BISCHOFF, who is sui-viving mar­riage with few external marks. George, by the way, deserves public acclaim led by the Editor for the presentation to the Alumni office of a bound volume of the Notre Dame Daily of blessed memory. Also there saw FRANK McCARTHY, erstwhile Juggler business manager. Frank is in the City Hall, agent for Old Style Lager, and one of the leading Y. M. Democrats, having worn ont two gavels keeping his opponents from exercising^ their rights at the recent convention of the national organiza­tion. If you ever see Frank, have him tell you how he met the late Sen. Thomas Walsh. Watching McCarthy and BOB KIR6Y in action, you can see how twins are the only logical manifestation of nature's attempts to carry on these respective lines. 
1926 

GERALD WELDON HAYES, M.D., announces the opening of his offices at 96 JJorth Walnut St., East Orange, 
N. J. That's all the eminent pediatrician has announced to date. A little more pediatrics on your brain-children. Doctor, hinted the eagei: Editor. Birth control is about the best threat to bring this once prolific writer back into these columns. There was a post-card from the Polish Corridor, where that Celtic map must have looked awfully out of place the past summer. A fine letter from REV. BER­NARD COUGHLIN announces that the Notre Dame influence isn't to be completely lost to the College of St. Thomas. Bemie is assigned to the high school department of St. Thom­as. Loss of a vacation, he says, makes it look as though he may com­
pensate with a game or two at N. D. this Fall. 
1927 

CLARENCE RUDDY, '27, Aurora attorney, was today appointed one of the assistant attorney generals to sei-ve the state by Attorney General Otto Kemer. Attorney Ruddy, asso­ciated with the firm of Alschuler, Put­nam, Flannigen and Johnson, made an exceptional run as the Democratic candidate for state's attorney of Kane county at the last election, carrying his home city of Aurora, 14,500 to 8,937 over his Republican opponent. State's Attorney George D. Carbary. 
Attorney Ruddy, who resides at 433 South Fourth street, succeeds Attor­ney George Warner, who has served as assistant attorney general under former Attorney General Oscar E. Caristrom. Ruddy is one of the youngest assistant attorney generals in the state. He is a bachelor and the son of Mr. and Mrs. Clarence S. Ruddy, with whom he lives. 
In line with the retrenchment poli­cies of Governor Homer, the number of assistant state's attorneys was re­duced from 39 to 25 and the districts in charge of each made larger. Whereas Attorney Warner served Kane and Kendall counties, Attorney Ruddy will have charge of Kane, Ken­dall, and De Kalb counties. 
Duties of Assistant Attorney Gen­eral Ruddy will include the handling of all state inheritance tax matters, representation of the state in work­man's compensation cases in which the state is the employer and the col­lection of delinquent motor fuel taxes in the districts served. The office deals largely, however, with inheri­tance taxes and for this reason, the position is oftentimes referred to as the inheritance tax attorney. 
Active in Democratic activities since he was admitted to the bar in 1927, Attorney Ruddy has been twice a candidate for public office, running for county judge in 1930 on the Dem­ocratic ticket. He rode the crest of the Democratic landslide last fall with a large majority in Aurora but the Elgin vote overcame his lead in the southern part of the county and he lost to the jvepublican incumbent, 28,182 to 26,500. 
A graduate of East High school with honors, Attorney Ruddy entered Notre Dame university, where he al­so made an emiable record. He cap­tained the debating team and was a leader in college activities. Graduat­ing in June, 1927, he took the state bar examination a month later and was admitted to practice. For a time he was associated with Attorney Fred Shearer, joining the Alschuler firm in 1930. 
JOHN HARWOOD, who was giad­uated from Harvard, was planning to take a course in Europe in estate designing. 
Last reports from EMMETT KIR­WIN, JR. had him in the August pri­maries in Wellington, Ohio, lor the office of county surveyor. 
ANDY SLEIGH -(N-rites: 
Thought that I might get to see you in Pittsburgh last Fall. Did we get a razzing over the results of that game? This neck of the woods main­tains the theorj' that Pitt. West Va., etc. are the last thing in intercollegi­ate competition. If they'd ever get out and see some real teams like we have at N. D. over a period of years, most of the hecklers would swear off athletics out of shame. We see very few of. the boys down here. Since I have been home from N. D. the following have been here: JOE JACHYM, JOHN POLISKY, JOHN "BIG MUL" MULDOON, JOHN "ROME" DUGAN, twice, "PUT" NEWJtAN was in for a few minutes one day, JIM McQUAIN, TOMSIY ARNETT, CHARLES WALSH, GUY BRADLEY, Spread those out over six years and it doesn't amount to much. Dugan has had t\vo nice ^^s­ite here, the last one last month with his bride; mighty nice gal, and we all had a lot of fun. Bradley was work­ing out of Weston for a week and we got together several times. Out­side of the broadcasted games and these occasional visitors the Edwards boys and myself are right much out of the way. Always get a load of news from FRANK" WHELAN when he comes home. JAMES A. MAL­LOY is still working in Baltimore. HUNTER McCAULEY BENNETT, around '94, just returned from Flor­ida. He was on one of the crews. Is now married and has two children. 
My family is getting plenty to eat and lots of sleep and that's about all. Two little boys are getting along fine. Only hope that I'll be in a posi­tion to send them along to N. D. when the time comes. 
Hope that you are getting along fine and that you will have a very successful year. I look fonvard to the ALUMNUS each month eagerly. You will realize that my life isn't any bed of roses when I tell you that I was out at daybreak this morning working my potato patch. Did you ever try that? It gives you one Hell of an appetite. Kinaly remember me to Paul Fenlon, Charles Phillips, Fr. O'Hara, George Keogan, "Hunk," Herb Jones, Dean McCarthy, etc. 
1928 
Now that our first reunion is his­tory I think we can look forward to an even more successful one four years from now under the Dix plan. I am sure the hundred who were here will all be back and a hundred 

the near 
[mnmffl 
nfWNi.nth, city 
more who expressed their regrets will be with us in 1937. .1 want to thank the local Committee and all the other '28 men who helped to make the gathering such a success. The following notes are taken from letters and telegrams received at the last minute in June telling that they couldn't make the reunion. 
ART DENCHFIELD cabled from 
Montevideo that he couldn't be with 
us because he was Germany bound 
July 1. 
Court engagements prevented JOE 
HANEY from leaving his office in 
Newark, New York. 
JOHN McMAHON wTote to LEO 
McINTYRE, who did some excellent ' work in rounding up the Pennsyl­vania gang, that business at the As­sociated Press Bureau, Pittsburgh, kept him from being with the "gang 
or gangsters" of '28. 
It took a reunion to get a letter from BOB DEGNAN who is Deputy Clerk of Court in Waseca, Minn. His address is 216-3rd Ave., S. E. 
TOM JONES wrote from Boise, Idaho that he was lined up with a case in the Supreme Court the day of the reunion. 
June 5, found HAYES MURPHY busy in Rock Island, 111., where he is (Continued on Pane 34) 
lAIAIiJ. 
 —'-400 rooms from »Z up 

OUH OWM riREPMOF tAHAOe SEAVES AIL THREE HOTEtS 
ALUMNI HEADQUARTERS 
Personal Attention to Notre Dame Reservations 
J. KENNETH QUALLEY, Mgr., '27 
A PAGE FOR THE CLASS OF 1929 
By Secretary Joseph P. McNamara 
JUNE 1, 2, and 3, 1934—FIVE-YEAR REUNION 
Northwestern Marine Insurance Com­pany, Union Trust Bnflding, Cleve­land. . . . TOM JOEDEN dropped in not-so-long-ago. He is still in the paint business in Bridgeport, Ohio. 
I was very much impressed at the 
sight of the new buildings on the 
campus and I know that everyone will 
experience the same tingle as I when 
they arrive next June for that big 
reunion. . . . Best wishes for further 
success, Sincerely 
Doc Dougherty. 
City editors who know their way around are just keeping BOB KIR­BY'S name set up in headline type "in case." Recently Robert Emmett delivered himself of a stirring speech at the State Convention of the Junior Chamber of Commerce at Evansville and shortly thereafter emerged as first vice-president of the organiza­tion. Headline No. 2: Back in In­dianapolis Bob presided at a banquet in honor of AMBROSE O'CONNELL, chief assistant to Postmaster General Farlev. Governor PAUL V. Mc-NUTT, PAT MANION, LEROY KEACH, TOM JONES, and JAMES 
E. DEERY were among the celebri­ties at the speakers table. Further reason for headlines: KIRBY seems to be the only Notre Dame man ten­dered three positions in Washington with the "g^ov'ment" that has con­sistently refused the honors. And further news about Kirb: the ex-cheer leader recently added another to his cheering section. This one is Susanne. 

WALTER STANTON, deputy at­torney general and commuter be­tween Gary, Indianapolis and Wash­ington, will don morning attire to be married in La Porte, Indiana, within the month, it is understood. Yep, he will marry golden-haired "Tucky" well and favorably known to most twenty-niners. Nice going, Walter! 
OLIVER SCHELL is the new Grand Knight of St. Joseph Council 443, K. of C, New York. A former financial secretary of the Council, Oliver's personality speaks for itself in his new office. 
Aomng the young priests ordained in June was REV. GEORGE L. DUM. Father Dum is continuing his studies at Notre Dame this Fall. 
TED GRIFFIN was graduated from the N. Y. U. Law school June 7. 
JOS. P. McNAMARA, one of the big men (both ways, friend) in the Attorney General's office in Indianap­olis, promises big things for this col­umn this year — culminating in a record-breaking Reunion next June. So just let this little tuning-up act as an introduction. 
"You can't beat these twenty­niners!" famed flier Charles Augus­tus Lindbergh might have remarked after making Stockholm a port of call. For tow-headed debater AR­THUR "SWEDE" STENIUS was on the reception committee, in the Swed­ish city. Stenius is having the time of his life but reports that he dreams, now and then, of your class secretary. Can't someone send Art a remedy for those DT's? 
Our foreign department also rushes news of the return of KARL MAR­TERSTECK who gave up a lucrative post of being the ALUMNUS corre­spondent for Russia to return to (of all places) South Bend. With Karl came a most charming Russian maid­en who is now Mrs. Karl Martersteck. Congratulations. 
FRANKLYN DOAN, to whom this column is especially indebted, has transfen-ed the sphere of his opera­tions from Tammany Town to Ohio. Doan intends to start an expose of the lives of Notre Dame men in that section of the country, along the line of his New York reports, soon. Oh, yes, Frank is still with Collier's and has a truly enviable record with that organization. 
Saint Benedict's Church and the city of Philadelphia formed the back­ground for the wedding of the ex-Scholastic circulation manager JOE HILGER to Miss Mary Melody of that city. Joe has recently moved into a beautiful new home in Columbus, In­diana, named "Melody Manor" and announces that the proverbial latch­key is always out to Notre Dame men. ... Joe's brother, BOB HILGER, vdW marrj' Mary Helen Shea at Sts. Peter and Paul Cathedral, Indianapolis, on the fourth of October. 
The class secretarj' recently sat next to a member of the Detroit Uni­versity athletic board through a ban­quet and came away mth the impres­sion that center JOHN FREDERICK, now line-coach at Detroit U., genuine­ly satisfies his employers. John is al­so practicing law in Michigan, and is going tine. 
As we go to press current Society pages are announcing the engagement of Miss Virginia Ballweg to WIL­LIAM KREIG, one-time class presi­dent, S. A. C. head, and successful mergist of the Harvard accent to the Notre Dame he-manner. Bill has been most successful in the legal pro­fession. 
Latest Notre Dame man to join Govei-nor PAUL McNUTT'S adminis­tration is JIM BOEHNING who has moved into the auditing division of the Department of Conservation. Jim used to be a staunch Frederick-for­president man in his day-dogging Commerce days and still can pick a winner. 

SYLVESTER J. "DOC" DOUGH­ERTY is the answer to a class-sec's prayer. Genial Doc forwards from 718 Sixth .A.venue, Steubenville, Ohio the following: 
".. . Just returned from a trip to the World's Fair and Notre Dame and found out from JIM ARM­STRONG that several thousands took the same trip. While walking down Notre Dame avenue to Angela Blvd., I saw cars from five different states pass on their way to the old campus. At Indiana Harbor I vis­ited BILL JOHNSON and WALT MULFLUR, both happily married and working for Inland Steel. .. . At Riv­erside, 56 Forbes Road, I spent a pleasant evening with Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM B. SHANLEY (formerly Winifred Hartsock of the Notre Dame Library) and their two girls. Bill is surely a proud daddy! He is work­ing for the Universal Oil Company at Lyons, Illinois and is getting along very nicely indeed. 
CHARLIE McDERMOTT and I got together for one big evening. He is living at 6047 Kimbark and is con­nected with the Illinois Steel at South Chicago. Charlie is soon going to send an ultimatum to GEORGE ROWAN of Pittston, Pennsylvania concerning his con-espondence. 
At Notre Dame I found DON RICH teaching industrial chemistrjs HANK PERSIN, FR.4.NK SOWA, JOE TOUSSAINT working for advanced degrees. PAUL BARTHOLOMEW is teaching at Notre Dame, is married and has an Angela Avenue, South Bend, address. 
I spent an evening with the KARL M.A.RTERSTECKS in South Bend and found that Karl had returned from Russia and brought with him a Russian wife. Karl is working in Wyandotte, Michigan. Karl's brother, BILL MARTERSTECK, finished N. D., last June and another brother will finish in '34. 
JIM WILLIAMSON called during a stop-over on his way to Philly to wit­ness his sister's graduation. MICK­EY McMAHON dropped around last summer. He is still working for the 
(Continued from Page 32) 
practicing law. He was in the midst of an election campaign in which his father was a candidate for Circuit Judge. 
LEO P.A.UL wrote from 2426 S. Salina St., Syracuse, N. Y. that he tried his best to get a gang together from there but couldn't make it this time. 
JOHN BACHMAN wrote from 5640 S. Green St., Chicago, 111. that he was busy working at the World's Fair. 
STEPHEN WOZNIAK found his activities as assistant prosecuting at­torney in Akron, Ohio, would not per­mit him to be with the Law gang. 
TOM MAHON, who is with Thompson and McKinnon in Duluth, wrote a note of regret that he could not be with us. 
ED KINSEY was e.vcused when we heard that he was in Hong Kong China, ^vith the N. Y. K. Steamship Co. 
Our letter announcing the reunion found JACK C.4NIZAR0 in Europe. 
The first word I had heard from LARRY ENGLERT came from 1809 Admiral, Tulsa, Oklahoma. He prom­ises to be with us next time. 
ART C-A-NTY is with the Law Dept. of the Prudential Insurance Company. Art has acquired a wife and daughter in the past five years. 
FRANK ZAPPONE writes from Lewiston, Montana, that he will be back in the fall. 
BOB KIRBY received the honor of having the largest family of the classmates present at the reunion. The third baby had just arrived a few days before the reunion. Bob was quite disappointed as he had ex­pected another set of twins. How about someone in the class challeng­ing Bob's position as father of the largest family in the Class? I know of only one who can claim the same honor, and that is ART GLEASON in Akron. Sorry you weren't here, Art, to help keep Bob in his place at the reunion. 
BILL LEAHY, from St. Louis, made his reunion trip his wedding trip as well. 
It seemed good to have Father Galligan back with us during the re­union. Father John Kelly spoke at the meeting of '28 men at the stag party. It was agreed at that meet­ing that I should appoint someone each month to be held responsible for the news of this column. We will be­gin by having the column written by LEO MCINTYRE ne-xt month. How about it, Leo? Will be expecting your copy by Oct. 20. If there isn't a '28 column next month you will have to blame him. On the other hand if you don't rush him some news at 708 Eighth Ave., Bethlehem, Pennsyl­vania, you will have to blame your­self. 
1930 
Your Class Secretary' has moved from 1055 Park Ave. to 72 Barrow St. (NOW that tne depression's over, you can move from Park Ave. I sup­pose.) He sent in several contribu­tions during the summer to save his memory. Here they come: 
VINCENT MCCUE is working in the trust department of the N. Y. Tmst CO. and attending the New Jersey Law School at night. 
GEORGE HATCH is li\ing at the Westchester Gardens Apts. in Mt. Vernon. Business with the Pennsyl­vania-Dixie Cement Co. brought him East. 
JIM FLANNERY is in the oil and gas business in Pittsburgh. He was in New York for a short visit this 
WARREN FOGEL and FRANK McAJNENY passed the bar exams here. WaiTen celebrated with a trip to Chicago and Kankakee. He is usually seen around Broadway when he is in the city. 
BOB HAIRE is living with us and w'orking for International News Pho­tos. 
JACK WALKER has gone to Washington where he is working in the engineering dep;department of the 
R. F. C. 
Mr. and Mrs. R.AYMOND J. Mc-COLLUM are living at 3409-83rd St., Jackson Heights, N. Y. 
Among our recent visitors was LARRY JOHNSON of Syracuse, a recent graduate of the N. D. Law-school. Larry is preparing to take the New York bar examination. 
.4.RCHER HURLEY recently took a jpb here in the city. 
LOUIS GODOY, '31, is carrying on at the National Surety Co. 
RA Y REARDON is helping his father on the Waukegan school board. KEGOWICZ, known the world over as "Keg," is busily occupied in a law office in Chicago. HARRY BUSS­CHER successfully passed the Illinois Bar examinations. 
JIM MURRAY, '31, holds the posi­tion of assistant district attorney in Batavia, N. Y. 
"SPIKE" ENGLAND has deserted his native California for a good po­sition in the grocery store business in Winfield, Kansas. 
JIM COSTELLO works for the Public Ser\ice of New Jersey in New­ark. 
JOE RUPPE holds a position in a bank in Hancock, Mich. 
JIM RANKE has been working in his father's jewelry store in Mil­waukee. 
AVe are in the midst of moving. By wc I mean DAN CANNON, JOHN RIORDAN, DR. THOMAS SHEEN, '21, Charles Bellows (Amherst) and myself. We have given up Park Ave. for Greenwich Village. I think Dan intends to take up painting, so you may e.\pect great things from him. John is working at Macy's as a sec­tion manager and is doing well. 
The mail bag adds: 
A card from PAUL KLEISER, Mishawaka, who is now in Indianap­olis as assistant engineer in the bu­reau of sanitary engineering. 
PAT McL-AUGHIN spent an inter­esting summer playing the drums Avith an orchestra from the Univer­sity of Illinois, crossing the ocean, where a card from Pat says: Crossed on the Cameronia the first of July. Cycled from Glasgow to Edinburgh and then down to London. We're crossing to Paris. Sail back to the States August 19, from Liverpool. Pat's mother dropped a line to say that Pat was using his gold and blue drum outfit from the N. D. Jugglers, to add an N. D. touch to the Illinois ensemble. 
FRANK HAND is entering his senior year at Tuft's Medical School in Boston. 
A letter from JIM MALLOY in Baltimore says that he was living with DICK DONOGHUE until Dick was transferred to Washington. He also sees DAN B.A.RTON about every week-end. Dan had just received a degree from National University. 
"At the annual election of officers of Santa Maria Council, South Chi­cago, 111., Bro. JAMES CONNERS was elected to succeed William J. O'Neill as Grand Knight. 
"The nev/ly-elected Grand Knight is a member of one of the first and most highly respected families of South Chicago. He is a graduate of Notre Dame University and has been associated with Judge George A. Rooney of the Probate Court in the practice of law." 
NORMAN LILLIG is now located in Detroit with Keane & Co., Penob­scot Bldg. 

1931 TONY CONTI and AL CAPTOR, 
NICK BOHLING was on the cam­

pus in June, calming himself for the 
July bar exams in Illinois. 
JIM MURPHY was one of the 

150,000 Fair visitors who added 
Notre Dame to their list of attrac­
tions. Jim asks if there is anything 
printable about AMBY STOEPLER, 
DAN LENCIONI or JIM COME­
FORD? You know the ALUMNUS mot­
to, "Everythting printed to fit." Jim 
said that MART DOWLING was in 
Middletown during the summer, rep­
resentitng the Atlantic Stamping Co. 
of Rochester. FRED R.A.H.A.IM is 
trying to make other people make 
work. 
AL CULVER, acting as one of those red-coated policemen who have done so much to guide anxioas ladies about the Century of Progress this summer, received some fine publicity when he risked his own life to save a young man who jumped into Lake Michigan from the Streets of Paris in what proved to be, in spite of Al's efforts, a successful suicide. The tide at the point described is a bad one and it was with some difficulty that Al brought the body back to shore. A pulmotor was used for two hours but to no avail. 
.\L GALL dropped a summer line 

from the sidewalks of New York, 
where he is with the Geyer Publica­
tions, 260 Fifth •A.venue. Al was look­
ing for the address of CHARLIE 
POWERS, C.E., Savannah. 
A line from JOE GUADNOL.A. 

places him in Los Angeles, with a 
law firm, reachable at 4129 S. Bron­
son Ave. 
TOM GOLDEN is probably in San 

Francisco by this time, having writ­
ten that he was leaving Butte, Mont. 
Sept. 15 for the Golden Gate. 
A recent note from NOEL GIES 

states that he was away from Great 
Falls most of the summer. He' had 
also heard that ED FLYNN belongs 
to the Actors Guild in New York and 
does a lot of tableau appearances 
for advertising. 
1932 

I'd like to fill several pages with news of men of my class but I fear that my news this time will be scant. 
At the graduation exercises in June 1 had the pleasure of meeting again BOB GORJLAN, CHARLIE SPAN­GENBURG, HANK DON ALT Y, JOHN MATOUSEK, FRANK MAD­DEN, FRAN OELERICH, FRED SNITE, PRANK MURRAY, NEIL HURLEY and JACK HAMILTON. That seems ages ago. JACK HAM­ILTON contemplates moving to South Bend with his mother. FRANK O'MALLEY and namesake ED will still be in attendance as will be DOM­INIC NAPOLITANO. (How about 
Nappy?) GENE CONNELLY will finish up at M. I. T. this February. JOE GRO-GAN's dad has been quite ill. MYLES MULLEN, BILL DARROW and I -ivill continue studying law at St. John's while TOM GATELY, JOE LAUGH­LIN, TOM McKEVITT, JOE FOLEY et al will be seniors at N. D. law school. GEORGE HIGGINS, HACK WILSON, JIM O'SHAUGHNESSY, LEO SCHIAVONE and many others will be studying law in Chicago. BUDD DYNIEWICZ (I'd like to hear from him) is still as busy as ever. ED MELCHIONE is at Northwestern and IKE TERRY finished there last June. BILL WALTZ is working in his dad's bank at Massillon. HACK WILSON and others were at the Fair during the summer. BOB PURCELL was there also. I'd like to know who the N. D. man was who was working in the Sky Ride when it was out of order for several hours. He told a few children in his car to pray and they told me. He made a good name for himself and his school. 
BOB LEE, JOHN HIGGINS, BEN SALVATY are at De Paul Law School. 
Is JOHN LITCHER a proud fa­ther? Guess? 
MOURY MURRAY is Court Clerk in Pond du Lac. 
WALTKIOLBASA, JERRY REIDY , BARRY O'KEEPE and VmCE CAVANAUGH are also stud­ying law in Chicago. JIM SEC­CARECCIO is at Tufts. CHARLIE NASH is at Lovola Medical School. MIKE CRAWFORD is at St. Louis Medical School. ARNOLD WIENER is probating in Chicago. 
Under the excellent supervision of JIM DUNNIGAN the Metropolitan Club ran a dance at the Central Park Casino last June. In attendance, among others, were JIM WARD, WILLIE WILLIGAN, DREW SHIEB­LER, et. al. 
BADEN POWELL, BOB GOR­JL\N, JOHN MATOUSEK, BUDD DYNIEWICZ, BOB LEE, FRAN OELERICH and a few others have assisted me in keeping in touch ^^^th the boys. I'd like to hear from the rest of Youse Guys (apologies to Ben Bemie). 
Shall we say now THE PENN GRILL THE NIGHT BEFORE THE ARirY GAME! It was great last year. 
Editor of Scholastic and President of Student Council note well — An­other National Championship Football Team. 
The Glee Club, with it's maestro Joe Casasanta and feature artist John Ryan, were received "con Mucho gusto" in New York. 
Herb. 
t^veSHaria 
Begun in 1865 at Notre Dame 
A FAMILY MAGAZINE FOR THE NOTRE DAME FAMILY PARTICULARLY 
Edited by Notre Dame Men— 
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, '06 Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C, '07 Rev. Thomas Lahey, C.S.C, '11 
Familiar Notre Dame Writers 
Rev. C L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '06 Rev. Patrick Carroll, C.S.C. '11 Prof. Charles Phillips 
And Other Leading Catholic Authors 
Sub>cription (Postage Free) 
One Year $3 (Including Foreign) 
BOOKS & PAMPHLETS 
•
 FOR YOURSELF 

•
 FOR. YOUR CHILDREN 

•
 FOR SCHOOLS 


ATTENTION LOCAL CLUBS 
A group of books from our list makes an ideal gift to the school libraries in your com­munity. 
(List Furnished on Request) 
THE AVE MARIA PRESS 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
Address Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C. 

JOHN "WILDCAT" WALSH joined the national recovery act dur­ing the summer, a note from Akron says. He says "it's good to be busy." Wonderful things, depressions. 
The Rancho Santa Maria, Peoria, Arizona, continues to occupy the en­thusiastic attention of its manager, ED MEHREN. Choice dates and citrus fruits. Ed has promised an article on his job and his location to the ALUMNUS. 
CARL GAENSSLEN is in the 
state engineering department, liring 
at Green River, Wyoming. 
DR. SERGIUS P. GRACE, LL.D., is in charge of the very interesting exhibits of the Bell Telephone Co. at the Century of Progress. The exhib­its are one of the most popular cen­teers of the exposition. Those who remember the scrambled speech dem­onstration of the '32 Commencement when the Engineering Buillding was dedicated vdW also remember Dr. Grace and have an idea of what the Chicago exhibit, on a much larger scale, has to attract. 
COLMAN O'SHAUGNESSY sends 
in the following letter: 

It is a good thing my father al­ways goes to the Army game, because he is -(rilling to pay my dues to get better seats. .. . I have just come back from a trip to Chicago and it seems that the Century of Progress has been a God-send to our recent alumni. BILL BURGHART is out in California working on a big dam construction job for his father. His brother BOB is a customers' man for Ettinger and Rand and has just about developed a soothing tone of assurance in his conversation on De­cember wheat, A. T. & T., or how you can double your present fortune. NED KELLEY is playing golf most of the time in the high 70s. JACK STACKPOOLE of Detroit was visit­ing the Burgharts and particularly their sister Ruth. JUDGE CAR­BERRY, IL, TOM CONLEY and MARCH Y SCHWARTZ had discov­ered just lately what I have known for years, that my -4.imt in Chi. is a swell cook. They can be found there without difficulty from 1 to 3 on Sundays. GEORGE RYAN, the Breen Medalist, now out at So. Cal., had his car stolen and on the day of its recovery he smashed it up without benefit of clergy or insuranace. BOB JOYCE from indirect reports is still a problem to the mothers of Rock­ford. JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSY, my cousin, and WALTER RONEY have been busily engaged this summer in the manufacture of potato chips for Kroger-Consumers. It is good for a sluggish liver to see these potato chip tycoons when running at full blast. They were working 12 hours per diem before the NRA made their uncle ease up on them. I saw quite a 
bit of BILL DRAPER of Wilmette, only he was Mr. Draper to me. His daughter is more than charming. Mr. Bill looks young enough to be a brother to his daughter, and regaled us several times with stories of the good old days when. On the whole, by and large, it was a swell month— due in main to my being an N. D. alumnus. . . 
BILL BLIND advises that he is going back to the Harvard Law-school for his second year, having hit the first year to the satisfaction of the dean. He reports that SAL BON­TEMPO was appointed inspector of public stores and funds for the city of Newark. He's one of a three man purchasing board which supervises and makes all purchases for the city. A good job, lasts four years at least. 
1933 
JOE MC CABE, MORY LEE, "TONY" ANDREONI, STEVE BA­NAS, GEORGE RILEY, JOE KIR­INCICH, NORM BOES, "TEX" BE­HAN, TON Y CROWLEY, JIM BOYLE, JOHN BERRY, ED VYZ­RAL, LARRY SEXTON, "TONY" POGLIESE, TOM HUGHES are just a few of the lads of '33 who have returned to Notre Dame to continue their law studies. 
Saw JERRY FINNERAN in the Philadelphia the other night. He was rather non-commital about the pur­pose of his visit, but you guess. 
CHARLEY FISS is back at Notre Dame to secure his master's degree in Philosophy. 
SAM HYDE and DAVE POWERS are going to Columbia to continue their studies. 
JACK FINNERAN is going to medical school at Long Island. And MORY MULVILLE (the man \rith­
out a street address) will pursue the art of Hippocrates at Tufts. 
Kent Law School of Chicago will see J.A.CK O'SHAUGHNESSY, ED COGLEY, DICK HOSTENY, BILL CARROLL, and a few more attempt­ing to absorb a little legal knowledge. 
GEORGE ROHRS, ROGE MC­GOVERN, "M.A.RK" FLANIGAN, PHIL FAHERTY, and "MOON" MONAHAN will do or die at Har­vard. All will do their best to down "old man" Torts, "bugaboo" Con­tracts, and what not. 
LEO CUMMINGS after a rather profitable sumer is attempting to se­cure an "in" with Jack Atkin one of the biggest promoters and sportsmen on the west coast. 
FRANK WERNER, class presi­dent, is continuing his Law course at the University of Wisconsin. 
JOHNNY BALDWIN will move to Florida in a month or so, and intends to coach the game he played so well while at Notre Dame. 
NEIL EBERT is staying at home this year, and when last heard from was still hauling ice. Why not try Florida \vith "Baldy," Neil? Business ought to be better there. (The ice business at least.) 
TOM GRIFFIN moves to the Uni­versity of Michigan, and there he will continue to study Law. Let's hope the rackets are profitable up there too Tom. 
Let's here from some of you so we 
can make our next list a complete 
one. 
P. S. Too bad all of you aren't here' this year — Kansas, Purdue, Pitts­burgh, and Southern California. 
Don Wise. 
ED STEPH.AN is living in Chicago 454 Barry Ave., c. o. FRED BECK­LENBERG. 
PHI L FAHERTY is working in Lambertville, N. J., as a shipping clerk in a rubber mill, which will, he intends, carry him to Harvard Law next year. 
ART B E C V A R is in Prague, Czechoslovakia, 375 Karlova Ulice, Podeli, seems to be the street address. Art and his mother are living there while he enjoys a fellowship, one of five granted in this country by the American Czechoslovak student ex­change. Art sailed July 21, and -ivrites that he is enjoying the experience, though the language is difficult and Catholicity not as popular as Prague's beautiful churches would in­dicate. Art's thesis, the painting of Shakespeare's "Seven Ages of Man," was instrumental in securing the fel­lowship for him, together with his art work in the publications field on the campus here. 
RAY N.ABER, who is working at the Standard Oil branch in South Bend, gave us the following news of some of the '33 boys: 
SETON and CARROLL STALEY are working for the Hutton Company in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
FRANK CAWLEY is attending Law School at Georgetown Univer­sity and also working in the Depart­ment of Justice in Washington. 
CHARLES QUINN is working in an Investment office in New York City. 
ED ECKERT is working for an Oil Company in Albany, New York. HARRY GRATTON is teaching school in New Jersey. ED GAUSSELIN is working for his father in Chicago. DON MARTIN is back on the cam­pus taking Boy Guidance work. ARTHUR CAVENDER is with an advertising firm in Duluth, Minn. BOB KUHN is with the Standard Oil Company in Lafayette, Indiana. JACK C.A.RY is starting his first year at Loyola Medical School. 

LOCAL ALUMNI CLUBS 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKRON—Jo­soph H. Kraker. 20. 17T6-24th St.. Cuy­ahojra Falls. Ohio. President: Claude H. HorninK. '20. 133 N. Highland Ave.. Akron. Ohio. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARIZONA— .Tames D. Bnrrj*. *9. S2 \V. Pcnninjrton St,. Tucson. President: Steve Rebeil. "25. 620 N. Si.tth St., TucsDn. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARICANSAS— Rev. Geo. F. X. Strassner. *14. Hope. President: Burt L. Roberts. 132.^ Lincoln Ave.. Little Rock, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BENGAL—Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C. '02. Dac­ca. President: Rev. J. J. Hencshcy, 
C.S.C Dacca. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON— Joseph C. Sullivan. President: Robert J. Hcam. 43 Chester Ro.^d. Belmont. Mass.. Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BUFFALO— Paul D. IloefHer. •2.i. 2S0 Woodward Ave.. Buffalo. President: Edmund J. Lutz. Jr.. '24. 91 Beard Ave.. Buffalo. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CALU­MET DISTRICT—William L. Voss. Jr.. *23. 55,521 Vine Ave.. Harvey. Illinois. President: William R. Dooley. '26. 211— 157th St.. Calumet City. Illinois. Sec­rotarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE C.\PI­TAL DISTRICT—Thomasi Dollard. "21. 200 9th St.. Troy, New York. President: John Vincent Smith, "29. 252 First St.. Albany. New York, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO— Austin McNichoIs. 'IT, c.o. W. A. Alex­ander & Co., 134 S. LaS.-ille St.. Presi­ilent: William P. Kearney. "28. 507 County Bldjr.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCINNATI —Robert Hushes. '29, 3565 Burch Ave., President: W. D. Morrissey, '26, Cath­olic Charities Bureau, Secretary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND —Matthew Trudellc, '17. 1023 Scofleld Bldir.. President: J. Patrick Canny. '28. 
c.o. Erie Railroad LcKal Dept.. Medical Arts Bldfr., Secretai-y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CON­NECTICUT VALLEY — William J. Granfield. '13. State Bldir., 1200 Main Street, Springfield, Mass., President: James A. Curry, '14, 647 JIain St., Hartford. Conn.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DALLAS. TEXAS—James P. Swift. '24. 422 In­terurban Bldft., Dallas. President. Fran­cis A. McCulloush. '30. 917 First Nat­ional Bank Bld}7,, Dallas, Secretary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON— Robert Ohmer, 'OS, 512 Mutual Home Bid;;.. Dayton. President: .Andrew A. Aman. .Tr.. '30. 210 Lexington -Ave.. Dayton. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER— David Hickey, '28, 1515 Grant St„ jires­ident: O, L. HoUKh. '27, 1.575 Race St., Secretary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT— John T. His-Kins, '24, 1632 Buhl Bldj:., President: Paul J, Dooley, '25, 6202 Hamilton .^ve,. Secretary, 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—Dr, J, A, Flynn, El. '12, 1511 R. I. Ave., N, W„ WashinKton, President: James D. Hayes. 5115 EiKhlh St„ N, W., WashinKton, Secretai-y-

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ERIE, P.\.— Richard D. Daley. *17. Erie Dailn Tiutt-H, President: Thomas Barber, '24, 416 Newman St„ Secretary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FAIRFIELD COUNTY-James Murphy, '22, 611 Securities Bldl?,. Bridireport. Conn,, President: Joseph E. Rus.so, '32. 166 HouKh Ave.. Brdijrepoi't. Conn.. Secre­tary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FT. WAYNE —Frank J. Gilmartin. '01. 336 W. Wool-and Ave.. President: Robert Effueman. '30. Old First Bank Bids., Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GREEN BAY" —Harold L, Londo, '24, City EnKineers' Office. City Hall. Green Bn.v. Wis.. Pres­ident : Levi A. Geniesse. *24. 510 Jlina­han Bld;r., Green Bay, Wis., Secretarj-, 
NOTRE D.-\ME CLUB OF GRAND RAP­IDS, MICH—Georse E. Ludwis. '25. 32S Glenhaven Ave.. N. W. President: R,iy­mond .1. Bonini, '27, 2460 Oakwood Dr,. S.E., Secretary. 
NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF HAMILTON. OHIO—M. O. Burns. 'S6. 338 S. Secnn.l St.. President: Marc .\. Fiehrer. '27. 701 Rentschler BId'-r.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HIAW.\THA­Li\ND—Norman Bartholomew. '15. 225 Cleveland Ave.. Iron Mountain. Mich.. President: Michael S. Corry. '27. 837 Terrace .Ave. JIarinette. Wis.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HOUSTON— 
M. E. Walter, '14, 1702 Stuart .Ave,, Houston, Texas, President: T, F. Green. Jr.. '27, Conroe, Texas, Secretary-Trcisurer, 

NOTRE D.AME CLUB OF INDI.\N­APOLIS —Robert Kirby. '29. 1901 N. Meridian, President: John T. Rocap. '30. 129 E. JIarket St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF JOLIET— Charles Lcnnon. '30. 605 Herkimer St.. President: Thomas Feeley. '32. 316 Buell Ave.. Secretary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF K.\NSAS CITY —Daniel F, Foley, '23, 25 Wint Ave.. Ft. Leavenworth. Kansas. President: John 
M. DuKan, '27, 4427 Tracy St., Kansas City, Mo., Secretary. 

NOTRE D.«IE CLUB OF KANSAS—Al­bert J. Gebert, '30. U. of Kans.is'. Wich­ita. President: Dan Welchons. '30. 306 
E. 13th St., Hutchinson. Kan.sas. Sec'y. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KENTUCKY'— Wm. A. Reisert, Jr„ *30. Reisert Ins. AEcncy. 352 Starks BIdB., Louisville, Ky„ President: Herman J. OhliKschlaK­er. '29. Broadway at 30th St.. Nat'l, Concrete Construction Co.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANE COUN­TY—William B. ChawKO. '31. North­western Mutual Life Insurance Co.. 303 Graham Bids.. Aurora. III.. Secretary pro tern. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP LAPORTE. INDIAN.*-A. Gordon Taylor. 'IS. 1507 Iniliana Ave.. Laporte. President: Nor­man Duke. '33, 304 Niles St., Laporte, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOS AN­GELES—Judce A. .-i. Scott, '22, 220.5­Sth -Ave.. President: Edward P. Cun­ninKham. '30. 1031 S. Grand Ave.. Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOUISIANA­MISSISSIPPI—P. E. Burke, '88, :!07 Camp St.. Now Orleans. President: Cyp­rian -A. Sporl. Jr., '28, Whitney-Central BldK,, New Orleans, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MANILA—Al­fonso Zobcl. '24. c.o. .Ayala & Cia. 21 Calle Juan Luna. Manilla, President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MEMPHIS— HuKh MaKevney, Jr., 1878 Union Ave.. President. 
NOTRE D.-VME CLUB OF MILW.\UKEE Dr. E. J. Duniton. '14. 1228 Brady St,. President: Thomas Kelly, 'IS, 806 N. 11th St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF M0NT.4NA— Earl W. Brown. '93. 320 Power St.. Helena. President: James B. O'Flynn, '11. Great Falls. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF NEBRASKA— Goralad J. Barret. '22. 315 S. 37th St.. Omaha. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF NEW JER­SEY—Robert Phelan. '22. 481 William St.. East OranKo, N. J.. President: Joseph Nulty. '27. 945 Jtadison Ave., Elizabeth, N. J,, Secretary, 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF CITY OF NEW YORK—William -A. Walsh. '96. 16-lS S. Broadway. Y'onkers. New Y'ork. President: J. Norbert Gelson. Jr.. '26. 1201 Troy .Ave.. Brooklyn. N. Y.. Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF NORTHERN 
• CALIFORNLA. — Royal H. Bosshard. '17. 315 JIontKomery St.. San Franci-sco. President: Robert B. Hill. '23. 5033 Proctor -Ave.. Oakland. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF OREGON— General J. P. O'Neil. 'S3. Army Re­cruiting Station. Second and Washing­ton Sts.. Portland. President: L. Bernard Macnab. '25. Terminal Sales Bids.. Port­land. Secretary. 
NOTRE D.AJIE CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO —Raymond J. Eichenlaub. '15. Hoster Really Bids.. Columbia. Presi­dent. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF OKLAHOMA —^Thomas F. Shea. o. s., '09, 902 E.x­chanKe Natl. Bank, Tulsa. President: Leo A. Schumacher. '13, Kin? Woo<I Oil Co., OkmulKee. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF P.ARIS—Hold­ers of Permanent Seats: Louis P, Harl, '16, Paris Office, N. Y. Herald. 
NOTRE D.AJIE CLUB OF PHIL.ADEL­PHIA — Harry Francis. Jr.. '30. 15 SprinK Av e .Ardmore. Pa.. President: Thomas J. Jlasee. '32. 5801 Chow St., Philadelphia. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF PEORI.A. ILL. —Albert F. Gury. '28. 704 W. Wilcox .Ave.. President: Joseph Lanston, '28, 207 Hillyer Place, Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF ROCHESTER —Thomas Ashe, 31. 226 Glen Ellyn Way. Rochester, President: Raj-mond D, Downs '26, 46 Clinton Ave.. S., Secretary. 
NOTRE D.AJIE CLUB OF ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Raymond C. Marelli. '27. 1418 Eishth St.. Rockford. III.. Presi­dent: Francis W. Howland. '25. 902 N. JIain St.. Rockford. 111.. Secretary. 
NOTRE D.AJIE CLUB OF RHOD E ISUtVND-Charles A, Grimes, '20, Para­mount Bldjr., Providence. President: Cy­ril A. Costollo. '29. 44 Huxley Ave., Providence, Secretai-y, 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF THE ST. JO­SEPH VALLEY—Paul JI. Butler, '27. 802 I.O.O.F. Bldel. South Bend, Indiana. President: Norman J, Hartzer. '29, 843 Forest -Ave, South Bend, Indiana, Sec­retary. 
Local A lumni Clubs LIST OF CLASS SECRETARIES 
(Continued) 
Yrar l^amc AiidrcKH 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ST. LOUIS — Before ISSO Hon. Thos. F. Gallagher Filchburjr. Mass. Leo SuUifTe. '24. 2701 S.i. Grand. Presi­18S0—85 Prof. Robert M. Anderson Circleville. Ohio 
dent: Robert HellrunK. '30. 7214 North­ISS6 Michael O. Bums 338 S. Second St.. Hamilton. Ohio moor Drive. University City, Mo.. Secy. 

18S7 Hon. Warren A. Carlier LudinRton, Michigan 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SIOUX CITY— ISSS John L. Heineman Connersville. Indiana Vincent F. Harrinjrton. *2.i. Continental 1SS9 P. E. Burke 301 Camp St.. New Orleans. La. MortjraKC Co., President. 
1890-93 Louis P. Chute 7 University Ave.. Minneapolis. Minnesota 
1S94 HuKh A. O'Donnell The New York Times. New York City AND CENTRAL NEW YORK—Vincent 1S95 Eustace Cullinan. Sr. 860 Phelan BIdp., San Francisco. Calif. BrowTi. '2:!. 1418 James St.. Sj-racnse. 1896 William P. Burns 327 Willard Ave., Michi:mn City, Indiana 
NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF SYRACUSE 
Pn^idcnt: Vincent Goulet. '26. 125 Green St.. Syracu.=e. Secretary. 

1S97 Rev, John A. MaeNamara 16 N. Elm St.. Garden City. New Y'ork 1898 Wm. C. Keftler 9th and Sycamore Sts.. Cincinnati. Ohio NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SAN AN­1899 Dr. Joseph F. Duane 418 Jefferson BIdK.. Peoria. Illinois TONIO—Harold Tynan, '27, 240 E. Hui­
19011 John W. EtTKeman Old First Bank Bldi:.. Fort Wayne. Ind. 
saclve Ave., President: Ivirwin J. Wil­li<ims. '28. .'SI!' W. Gramercy. Secretarj-. 

1901 .loseph J. Sullivan 1300. 1.19 N. Qark St.. Chicairo. III. 1902 C. C. Mitchell 110 S. Dearborn St.. Box 3. Chicairo. III. NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TIFFIN. OHIO 1903 Francis P. Burke 904 Trust Company Bld^.. Milwaukee. Wisconsin —C. J. Schmidt, '11, 260 Melmore St.. 
1904 Robert Proctor Monin;r Bid;;.. Elkhart. Indiana 
President: Fred .1. Wajmer. '29. 152 Sycamore St.. Secretar>'. 

190.'; Daniel J. O'Connor 10 S. LaSalle St., Chicajro, Illinois 1906 Thomas A. Lally 811-13 PauLsen Bid:;.. Spokane. Washington NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TOLEDO— 1908 Frank X. Cull Buckley Bldir.. Cleveland. Ohio Fred A. Srirenser. '30. :il2!l Kimball 
1909 E. P. Qeary P. O. Box 356. Momence. Illinois 
Ave.. President: Joseph L. W'etli. '31. 717 Starr Ave.. Secretary. 

1910 Rev. M. L. Moriarty 1900 Euclid Ave.. Cleveland. Ohio 1911 Fred L. Steers 1635 First National Bank BIdi;.. ChicaKu. Illinois NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRIPLE 1912 B. J. Kaiser 324 Fourth St., PittsburKh. Pennsylvania CITIES—Joseph Carey. '32. 20 Roose­1913 James R. Devitt 921 Enirineers BIdjr,. Cleveland. Ohio 
velt Ave.. Endicott. N. Y., President: Joseph Hennessy, '30, 22 Fourth St.. 

1914 Frank H. Hayes 1055 Granville Ave.. Chicajro. Illinois Johnson City. N. Y.. Secretary. 1915 James E. Sanford 1033 S. Linden Ave.. Hiiihland Park. HI. 1916 Timothy P. Galvin 
708 First Trust BIdi;.. Hammond. Indiana TWIN CITIES NOTRE DAME CLUB— Edward J. McOsker 
1917 104 S. Union St.. Elidn. Illinois 
John J. Doyle. '2S. 414 2nd Ave., S.. Minneapolis. Minn.. President: Robert 

1918 .lohn A. Lemmer 1110-8th Ave., S„ Escanaba, Michiinin FoKerty. '28, CoIleKe of St. Thoma-s. St. 1919 650 Pierce St.. Garj*. Indiana 
Clarence Bader Paul. Alinn.. Secretary. 1920 Leo B. Ward 
1012 Black BIdi;.. Los Aniieles-. California Alden J. Cusick 
1921 1 Park Ave., New York City 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTAH—Ray­mond R. Brady. '24. 206 Kearns BIdK.. 

1922 Gerald Ashe 226 Glen Ellyn Way. Rochester, New York Salt Lake City. President: Cyril Har-White Motor Company. Cleveland. Ohio 
1923 Paul Castner becke. '19. 64 F. St.. Salt Lake City, Sec. 1924 James F. Hayes 
Fifth Avenue Ass'n.. Empire State Bldir.. N. Y. City 1925 John W. Seal Ian 
Pullman Co.. 79 E. Adams St., Chicago. HI. NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE WABASH 1926 Dr. Gerald W. Hayes 
96 N. Walnut St.. East Oranite. N. J. 
VALLEY—Noble Kizer,'25, Purdue Uni­1927 Edmund DeCIeni versity, Lafayette. Ind., President: Peter 
8126 Drexel Blvd., Chicago. Illinois 1928 Louis Buckley 
VoKt, Secretarj'-Treasurer. 718 E. Corby St.. South Bend. Indiana 
1929 Joseph McNamara 231 Wisconsin St.. Indianapolis. Indiana 1930 Bernard W. Conrt>y 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF EASTERN 72 Barrow St., New York City PENNSYLVANIA — Leo R. Mclntyre. 1931 John E. Boland 
3624 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Penn.sylvania 
'28. Bethlehem. Pa.. Temporary Chair­1932 Herbert Giorjrio man : Charles B. McDermott. '27, Allen­
9005 188th St.. Hollis. L. L. New York 193:i Donald Wise 
town, Secretary. Notre Dame. Indiana 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN PENNSYLVAN1.\ — John B. Reardon. '22. 15 Union Bank Bids., Pittsbursh, President: Joseph Bach, '25, Ouquesne University Athletic Dept., Pittsburgh. Secretari'. 

DISTRICT GOVERNORS 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN WASHINGTON—Dr. Qarence Shannon, OA '02: Stim.son Bld^., Seattle, Wash., n'mtrirt Name .-Irfrfrcjw 
President: E. Morris Starrct. '14-21, I John W. EKKeman. '00 Old First Bank Bld;r.. Fort Wayne. Ind. 
El. '23, 801 Washinitton St.. Port Town-

II Daniel Hili?artner. Jr.. '17 20:!y E. 72nd PI.. ChicaKO. Illinois. 
send, Wash.. Secretarj-. 

III E. C. McHuch. *ia 4220 Cherry St., Cincinnati. Ohio IV John V. Diener. '09 704 Cass St., Green Bay. Wisconsin 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WATERBURY —Georse A. Gaffney. '98-'99, 54 Park 

V Raymond J. Kelly. *15 City Hall. Detroit, Michigan PI., Watcrbury, Conn.. President: James VI Thomas- Farrell. *2G 96 N. Walnut St,, East Orantre, N. J. 
M. MonaKhan, '27, 44 Aycr St.. Water-VII William A. Daunt. '08 110 E. 42nd St.. New York City burj'. Conn.. Secretary. 

VIII Dr. Robert Bums. *I7 94S Main St.. BufTalo, New York IX Joseph P. Gartland. '27 60 ConKress St.. Boston, Mass. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WHEELING. 

W. VA.—Thomas- F. Howley. '11. Citi­X Anselm D. Miller, 'ir* 12r,8 Maple St.. Roanoke, Va. zens-Peoples Trust Co., Wheeling. Presi­XI Harold Foley. '21 Foley. Florida dent: Geonre Sar;nis, '28, 2111 Belmont, 
XII Frank Blocmer, *22 126 E. Jefferson St., Louisville. Ky. 
Bcllaire, Ohio, Secretary. 

XIII Arthur Carmody. *l.i 819 Slatteo- BldK.. Shreveport, La. THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE 
XIV Joseph A. Menircr. *25 107 Catherine Court, San Antonio. Texas 
DAME—Sister M. Amies Alma. O. P., XV Dr. D. M. Nijrro, '14 o31 Ario^Ie Bid};., Kansas City, Missouri Mt. St. Mary-on-the-Hudson, Newburjih, 
XVI Richard B. Swift, '20 Kohl Bid};., Davenport. Iowa 
New York. President: Miss Rose Stcf­faniak, 161 Walnut St.. Coldwater. Mich. XVII Dr. R. C. Monahan. '90 418 Hennessy Bldf;.. Butte, Montana Secretary. XVIII Robert Fox, *01 57o0 17th Ave. Park^-ay, Denver. Colorado 
XIX James D. Barry. *97 82 \V. Pennington St., Tucson, Arizona NOTRE DAME CLUB OF YOUNGS-Howard Parker, *17 
XX Sutter Club, Sacramento, California 
TOWN—John J. Kane, Jr., '25, 1018 First National Bank, President: Norman 

XXI E. M. Starrett. '21 801 Washington St.. Port Towusend, WashinKton Smith, "24. 126 Roslyn Dr., Secretary. XXII Alfonso Zobel. '24 CO. Ayala & Cia, 21 Calle Juan Luna, Manila. P. I. 
G-E Qampus News 
BEMOTORED BEHEMOTHS 
The same sun which never sets on an unshaved Englishman's chin Iike%vise never finishes its daily round without seeing electric motors put to some new use. 
In the Sinclair Refining Company's exhibit at "A Century of Progress," you can see five pre­historic monsters. Largest is a Brontosaurus, 70 ft. long and 22 ft. high, with a steel skeleton and welded joints, posing on a moimtain. Little motors operate his eyelids, head, neck, mouth, breathing apparatus, and taiL A motorized Tyrannosaurus rocks back and forth, blinking and running out his tongue. A 30-foot Triceratops lunges for^vard; a Stegosaurus waves his fins; and a Duck-billed Dinosaur sits in a lake and chums water \vith his tad. 
Interviewed recently, and speaking for the group, Brontosaurus shrewdly ivinked an eye and recom­mended G-E motors, on the basis of his 80 milUon years of experience. 
WATCHDOG Like Malone of the Mounted, old PM-13 always gets its man. When the storm king rides roughshod along 
ODD 
transmission lines, this new G-E automatic oscillo­graph waits to see the whites of his eyes. Then it starts recording -within a half cycle (of a 60-cycle wave), a speed made possible by a special little mirror with a movement all its o%\-n. On a single roll of the sensitized paper, PM-13 can handle as many as a hundred oscillograms of chance transients and surges, and they can tread right on one another's heels or follow months apart. 
When power surges sign their names, it's no for­gery. The signature shows true wave shapes and phase relations. And, best of all, the PM-13 is permanently connected in the circuit and runs by itself. 
Incidentally, Claude Hathaway, a U. of Colorado graduate in 1927, is largely responsible for this new development. 
^"i Js ^^ftf^s. ''Ai^w;;, 
THERMOCOUPLE TAVERN We take you now to our new indoor weather laboratory. General Electric has "conunandeered" this ten-room house in Schenectady and dedicated it to improving the air we breathe. Two G-E engineers —^Elliott Harrington, Beloit College, '16, and Leon Mears, U. of Minnesota, '30, live there and conduct tests. Air conditioning (temperature con­trol, humidity regulation, air cleansing, air circula­tion) flourishes. There is automatic oil heating; there are extensive air ducts in the walls, in the floors; room coolers; combination units to deliver air either heated or cooled; filtering, humidifying, and circulating devices. Air currents can be pro­duced—vertical or horizontaL To help summer cooling, a ventilator exhausts air from the attic With thermocouples located in nearly a hundred places, temperature readings are taken at one point by means of a telephone-relay system. 
This residence was one of the proving grounds for the G-E oil fiumace. Now it develops design principles for air-conditioning equipment. 
96-3DH 

GENERAL ELECTRIC 
JZlfts lie ah. uou SOAA 
// // 
1933. LicoETT & MYIES TOMCCO CO 

VIC ctaareMc ~ikafs J\lude,r '^^coiacM'ciic -lAct£- lasics Jjeiie^' 
C^lu&tk^pM 







