The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
N. D. Carries On in Defense 
(Page 3) 

President's Sermon 
(Page 5) 
Interhall Footbal 
(Page 7) 

Observations of a Lay Trustee 
(Page 9) 

Notre Dame's large part in the nation's progravi of national defense (see page 3, this issue) tuas given added recognition when Rear Admiral John Downes, commanding 
the Great Lakes Naval Training Station, near Chicago, recently invited Universityofficials to revieio the station's trainees. Left to right in the reviewing group are Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, CS.C, president; Admiral Downes; Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, vice-president; and Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., prefect of discipline. Admiral Downes had earlier in the year inspected the Naval R.O.T.C. at Notre Dame. 
Vol. 20 NOVEMBER. 1941 No. 2 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
PROFESSOR REYNIERS 

UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS :-: .-: 
James A. Reyniers, '30, associate pro­

SPEAKS TO LAWYERS 
Kev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, urged lawyers to in­struct the public and defend the princi­ples of the Declaration of Independence at a sermon he gave at the Catholic Law­yers Guild's seventh annual red Mass, Sept 25, in the Church of St. Charles Borromeo, Brooklyn, N. Y. The red Mass, which is the annual votive Mass of the Holy Ghost, deriving its name from the color of vestments worn, was celebrated by the Most Eev. Thomas E. Molloy, bishop of Brooklyn. Assisting him were the Kev. Msgx-. Francis P. Connolly, pastor of Our Lady of Refuge Church; the Rev. Msgr. Francis J. O'Hara, pas­tor of the Church of Our Lady of An­gels; and the Rev. Msgr. John C. York, pastor of St. Brigid's Church, all of Brooklyn; and the Rev. Msgr. William 
T. Dillon, head of St. Joseph's College for Women. Present also was Most Eev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C. 
HISTORICAL ESSAY CONTEST 
A $50 prize to be known as the Fa­ther Charles O'Donnell-Charles Phillips award will be presented at the Univer­sity's 1942 Commencement to the student writing the best essay on "The Catholic Church as a Patron of the Renaissance in the 15th Century," the Committee on History Essays has announced. Pre­viously the Father Charles O'Donnell award and the Charles Phillips prize 
were awarded separately. 
• 

The essay topic chosen for undergrad­uates competing for the Monsignor Fran­cis O'Brien history prize is "Catholic Education on the Frontier—^Notre Dame before the Civil War." 
The competition for both prizes is lim­ited to students who have not yet com­pleted eight semesters of work at the University. Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C, and Prof. T. Bo^vyer Campbell constitute the Committee on Historical Essays. 
FOUNDER'S DAY 
A solemn high Mass was celebrated on Oct. 13, in Sacred Heart Church honor­ing St. Edward, patron saint of Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C, founder and first president of Notre Dame. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, celebrated the Mass, assisted by Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, vice-president, as deacon, and Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C, registrar, as subdea­
con. Rev. J. L. Carrico, C.S.C, dean of 
studies, delivered the sermon. 
Classes were, as is customary, dis­missed for the day, and a special dinner was served in the dining halls at noon. 
EXHIBITION OF DRAWINGS 
Through the cooperation of Dr. Maur­ice H. Goldblatt, director of the Univer­sity's Wightman Art Galleries, the Art Department is now sponsoring a six-week exhibition of old masters. This is a col­lection loaned by Hamms R. Teichert of Chicago, consisting of some 200 draw­ings dating back to the fifteenth century. This collection is of particular interest to the students of art for it clearly re­veals the master's method of transfer­ing his ideas to the finished canvas. Most of the drawings are in pencil, ink, conte­crayon, or wash. 
Included in this collection are draw­ings by Michelangelo, Baccio Baudinelli, Nicholas Pousinn, Charles Le Brun, Ja­copo Tintoretto, Benvenuto Cellini, and Guercino II. 
This is the first of many exhibitions to be sponsored this year by the Art De­partment. 
FATHER CUNNINGHAM 
Eev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C, recently attended in Washington, D. C, the first meeting of the general advisory committee on Inter-American Educa­tional Relations of the United States Office of Education. This committee, of which Father Cunningham is a member, is made up of 12 of the leading educa­tors in the country. 
"THE TRAIL OF DEATH" 
The vast archives of the University of Notre Dame Library have recently yielded material for "The Trail of Death," recently published memoirs of Father Benjamin Marie Petit, last of the early missioners in this territory. The help of Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C, the University archivist, was indispen­sable in the publication of Father Petit's diary by Irving McKee, of the Indiana Historical Society. 
The diary reveals vividly the suffer­ings forced upon the tmfortunate In­dians driven from their hunting g^rounds in 1837 and the roles of the midwestem missionaries in protecting the Indians against the excessive abuse by govern­ment agents. 
fessor of biology at the University, rep­resented Notre Dame at meetings of the sub-committee on intramural aerobiology of the National Research Council held at the University of Chicago in September. These meetings, concerned with air­borne infection and means of control, was part of the program of the Univer­sity of Chicago's 50th anniversary cele­bration. 
On Sept. 24, Prof. Reyniers presented to this group a paper on the "Control of Cross Infection in Hospitals by the Use of Mechanical Barriers and Air Con­ditioning." 
MISSIONARIES FROM N. D. 
Four members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, two priests and two brothers, left Oct. 23 by rail for San Francisco, where they will embark Nov. 7, on the liner President Grant, for the mission fields near Dacca, East Bengal, India. 
Father Robert McKee, of the Holy Cross Foreign Seminary, and Father Jerome Lawyer, who has just completed a study of the Arabic language at Cath­olic University in preparation for fxir­ther missionary work, will be accom­panied by Brother Rex, of Dujarie In­stitute, and Brother Theodore, who has had ten years experience in the missions of India. 
They will be joined by 15 other mem­bers of the Congregation at San Fran­cisco, including two sisters from St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, and a party of ten from the Canadian Prov­ince of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
The journey, straight through the bristling, war-ready Far East, will take from five to six weeks. Stops include Honolulu, Manila, and Ceylon, where the missionary band will leave for Dacca. 
DifiSculties were encountered in obtain­ing passports for the missionaries from the British Government. Father Thomas 
A. Steiner, C.S.C, Provincial of the United States Province of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross, announced at the first of the month that negotiations for the passports were under way, and, by way of explanation, said that the world­wide war conditions had forced England,, as well as all other nations, to be ever on the alert with regard to travel and transportation. These difSculties, how­ever, were overcome, and all. papers necessary for the trip had been received before the missionaries left for the West 
Coast 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is published monthly from October to June, inclusive (except January). by the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1. 1939. at the Postofiice, Notre Dame, bldiana. 'under the act of Auirust 24. 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National Cathoiie Alumni Federation. 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor; WILLIAM R . DOOLEY. "26, Managing Editor 

Vol. 20 NOVEMBER. 1941 No. 2 
N. D. Carries On In Defense 
Notre Bame's part in the national de­fense effort reaches into all branches of service and carries on Notre Dame's es­tablished tradition of patriotism. Re­ligious, faculty, students, and alumni of the University are serving wholeheart­edly in the time of national emergency. 
With her former president. Bishop John F. O'Hara, now serving as Military Delegate, and I nearly 400 of her former sons in I active service with the United States Army, Navy, or Mar­ines; four of her priests serving as chaplains in the arme d forces; 
I several lay facul­ty members re­
R. J. SCHUBMEHL 
called to active duty in the army, Notre Dame has es­tablished a new office at the University, that of Coordinator of Public Defense. In this post. Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C, former prefect of discipline, is guiding the University's contribution to national preparedness. An elaborate training program for industrial workers has already been organized, with free night classes being offered by the Uni­versity to workers in St. Joseph County and vicinity. But these are only a small part of Notre Dame defense activities. 
Though newly organized, Notre Dame's Naval R.O.T.C. unit already numbers 169 students enrolled in the first class. Headquarters for the Naval training unit are in the Rockne Memorial Build­ing, and the University now has finished 
Father Trahey Co-ordinates all 
Defense Activities; Classes for 
Defense Workers Attract Many. 
constructing an indoor rifle and pistol range beneath the Stadium. The purpose of the Naval Reserve Oificers Training Corps is to provide systematic instruc­tion in the essential naval subjects for a group of selected students, so that at the completion of the four-year course in Naval Science and Tactics leading to an ensign commission they may be qualified and available for duties as deck ofiScers in the United States Navy. 
The first observance of Navy Day, since the establishment of a Naval Re­serve (MScers Training Corps on the campus this fall, was held at Notre Dame, on Monday, Oct. 27. Highlight of the program was an address by Rear Admiral C. W. Nimitz, U.S.N., for the 
D. C. JACKSON, Jr. 
student body and faculty members at 
11:00ajn., in Washington Hall. 
Father Trahey serves as an adviser for boys in the draft or desiring to en­list in one of the branches of govern­ment service, and as liaison officer be­tween the NJJ.O.T.C. and the Univer­sity. 
In his advisory capacity he helps stu­dents with their draft problems, ar­ranges meetings between students and recruiting oflScers of the; Marines, the Army, and the Navy, and in general mans both a trouble ofiice for boys in the draft and a clearing house for re­cruiting. Students have the option of having their cases go through the local board or their home board; but most of them choose their home boards so that they may be inducted from their own locality. Father Trahey advises on ap­pealing hearings and recommends to the draft boards deferment of boys who wish to complete their schoolyear. Physical and academic status of the students goes through his cfSce before being sent to the local board. 
Another important duty of Father Trahey's oflSce is the supervision of the federally-sponsored engineering, science, and management defense training pro­gram offered by the University to indus­trial workers from South Bend and neighboring cities. Three complete pro­grams, each lasting 12 weeks are (and will be) offered to workers with evening classes in aeronautics, electronics, phy­sics, mathematics, engineering, machine operation, and chemistry. Another phase of program includes classes in personnel management, production supervision, and cost accounting. No tuition is charged, and all industrial workers in this area 

are eligible'for enrollment if they have had a high school education or its equiv­alent in some phase of industrial work, and a recommendation by an employer. 
Special classes in plant safety have been instituted at the University as a part of this program under the direction of the United States Office of Education. Prof. 
J. A. Northcott, Jr., is in personal charge of the course consisting of 12 lessons held from 7 to 9 p.m. twice weekly. On the staff of in­structors are B. 
A. Grainger, saf­

PHOF. J. A. NOETHCOTT 
ety engineer of the Bendix Products di\'ision; and J. J. Eaytkich, safety engineer of the Misha­waka Rubber and Woolen Manufactur­ing Company. Nearly 200 men from 10 major cities are enrolled in this defense training program. 
Notre Dame again offers elementary and secondary courses in civilian pilot training to her students under the di­rection and control of the Civil Aero­nautic Board. Twenty elementary and 10 secondary students have been accept­ed for this training. Completion of the elementary course allows the student to take the test for a private pilot's license, and the secondary course may lead to a commercial license. This, too, is a de­fense activity under the direction of Father Trahey. 
The four priests now serving as chap­lains in the various Army camps are Father Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C, '28; Father George J. Welch, C.S.C, '29; Father Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C, '29; and Father Edward E. Fitzgerald, C.S.C, '30. 
And, of course, Notre Dame's o\vn Bishop John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., '11, Military Delegate, is serving the armed forces to the full extent of his ever abundant energy. 
Dugald C. Jackson, dean of the Col­lege of Engineering, a major in the Coast Artillery Reserve, was given a leave of absence effective Oct. 15, to take up special production work in the Frank­ford Arsenal in Philadelphia. Father O'Donnell, president of the University, released Dean Jackson for work where his experience and training were urgent­ly needed "in accordance with Notre Dame's cherished tradition of patriot­ism." Professor Raymond J. Schubraehl, '21, assistant dean of engineering, is act­ing dean in Dean Jackson's absence. 
Prof. Benjamin DuBois, of the Army 
Reserves, for 17 
I years a teacher 
lof French at N. 
p. , left the Uni-I versity in the I summer to join [the armed forces I as a lieutenant-I colonel. Lt. Col. I DuBois is now I stationed in the I Canal Zone. 
Two other 

PBOF. BENJ. DUBOIS 
grave losses to the University were former registrar, Robert B. Riordan, who was called as a major in the R.O.T.C and is now sta­tioned at Purdue University, and George 
B. Collins, a professor of Physics, who was called by the government for spe­cial research work at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. .A.11 of these men are, like Dean Jackson, on leave of absence from the University. 
Notre Dame men in service whose military addresses are kno\vn will re­ceive copies of the Notre Dame Scholas­tic, as a part of the plan of Rev. John Lynch, C.S.C, prefect of religion, and James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary. A group of student volunteers are col­lecting used Scholastics each week and mailing them to the military men. (If you're in the service and not receiving the Scholastic, notify the Alumni Office.) In army camps all over the country Notre Dame alumni groups are spring­ing up, and requests for Notre Dame football movies are flooding the Alumni Office. 
Kiley Appelate Jud3e 
Roger J. Kiley, '23, of Chicago, one of the nation's finest ends in the early 20's, is a new judge in the Illinois Appellate Court, following his appointment recent­ly by the Illinois Supreme Court. He will fill the unexpired term of the late Judge Denis E. Sullivan. The term ends in June, 1942. 
Elected in 1940, Roge was a judge of the Superior Court in Chicago until his appointment. Previously, he was a Chi­cago alderman, elected first in 1933 and re-elected in 1935 and 1937. Following his graduation from Notre Dame he be­gan the practice of law in Chicago and was football coach at Loyola University there for a time. 
Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C, defense coordinator at the University, repre­sented Notre Dame, Oct. 17, at the in­auguration of Dr. Henry G. Harmon as seventh president of Drake University, Des Moines, Iowa. 
First Military N. D. 

Club at Camp Lee 

Staff Sergeant Joseph W. Schmidt, QMC, '36, recently sent more complete news of the organization of the Notre Dame Club of Camp Lee, Va. Joe re­lates that in August, Captain John V. Hinkel, '29, Bureau of Public Relations, War Department, Washington, D. C, visited Camp Lee, and together they rounded up Privates Roland Schlager, '29, and Joseph Novak, '34. 
Instances of cooperation among the alumni of Notre Dame proved a definite need for an organization. On Sept. 17, in the Camp Lee Traveller, they pub­lished a letter, calling a meeting of N.D. • alumni. Eight or nine men attended, in­cluding Frank McGahren, '34, who is the 
N.C.C.S. director of the USO at Peters­burg. Frank was very cooperative and helped them a great deal by enabling them to use the facilities in Petersburg for club purposes. 
At this meeting a club trip to the Navy-N.D, game was planned, if tickets were still available. Sgt. Schmidt, who was appointed acting chairman of the club, says that the biggest problem is the fact that men are in training at Camp Lee for 13 weeks and then sent to permanent stations east of the Missis­sippi. It is therefore essential that men permanently assigned at Camp Lee di­rect the efforts of this club. 
Notre Dame men who have come to meetings include: Joseph F. Novak, '34, (now discharged); Roland G. Schlager, 
•29; Robert C. Burke, '36; Anthony F. Anzlovar, '34, (now discharged); An­drew F. Wilson, '39; Paul F. Hellmuth, '40; Joseph H. Niehaus, '41; Joseph P. Gniltinan, '41; William J. Began, '41; Joseph W. Schmidt, '36; Virgil Van Meter, '41; Jack Pindar, '40; Chick Du­briske, '40; Lt. George Murphy, '36; Robert G. Crockett, '38; Edward Fox, '37; and Frank McGahren, '34, (USO). 
DR. CULLIGAN APPOINTED 
Dr. John M. Culligan, Litt.B '15, New Lowry Medical Arts Building^, St. Paul, Minn., ha* been appointed to the Alumni Advisory Committee to the Board in Control of Athletics to succeed Samuel M. "Rosy" Do-Ian, '10, whose term has expired. Other members of the board are M. Harry Miller, '10, Wilmington, Del., and Fred L. Steers, '11, of Chicago. 


The Rays of the Supreme Lawgiver 
"Thy laxu is written in the hearts of men, which, iniquity itself effaces not." (Confessions of St. Augustine.) 
(Ed. Note: Following is a sermon de­livered by Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, CS.C, at the seventh annual "Red Mass" of the Catholic Lawyers Guild in Brooklyn, in the Church of St. Charles Borromeo on Thursday, September 25. Because the sermon was so widely commented on in the East; because lawyers constitute so large and active a part of our alumni; and because the proper construction and enforcement of law is a matter of uni­versal interest and concern, the ALUM­NDS has secured the permission of Father • O'Donnell to publish the sermon for the benefit of all Notre Dame men.) 

Account of the Creation 
Occasionally an earnest but mentally earthbound reader of Genesis is brought up short by the account of the creation in which, you remember, there was light before the sun, the moon, and the stars were created. Here, surely, is a contra­diction that must be extremely gratify­ing to the type of mind that delights in ferreting out passages in the Bible that do not seem to be in accord with what is indulgently known as "the best in modem thought." But G. K. Chesterton, one of the wisest men of his, or any other time, saw in this not a contradic­tion, but a demonstrable truth. "There is," he wrote, "a very real metaphysical meaning in the idea that light existed before the sun and stars. It is not bar­baric; it is rather Platonic. The idea existed before any of the machinery which made manifest the idea. Justice existed when there was no need of Judges, and mercy existed before any man was oppressed." 
All this is just another way of saying that God's entire creative purpose exist­ed in His infinite mind before He created man; that the natural law, under which our human law receives its only sanc­tion, existed before God made man, breathed into him an immortal soul, and provided him with nature's bounty. Let the pure scientist explore man's bod­ily origin; let the philosopher descant upon his journey's end; let the savant speculate about his future life. You and 

By REV. HUGH O'DONNELL. CS.C. '16 
President of the University 
I can be concerned only with God's crea­tive purpose. We know that man was created "to know God, to love Him, to serve Him in this world so that he may be happy with Him in the next." 
Man's soul gives him intellect and will. It sets him above brute creation and makes him long to be the child of God that he is destined to be. Accountability to the Creator is the ultimate end of every soul. But God is just. Nothing is more manifest than the fact that if man is to be held accountable for his acts, he must be free to act, to accept or to re­ject God's commandments. Hence, God, Who gave us life, gave us the twin boon of freedom — an inalienable right, the negation of which is a defiance of God's creative purpose and a denial of man's individual responsibility to God. God has also ordained that men should respect the rights of one another; that rightful­ly constituted governments be the pro­tectors of life and liberty, to the end that all His creatures may lead full, free, virtuous lives. 
All Things For Man 
It is a principle of Catholic theology that just as man is for God, so all things created are for man. Man is the center of the material world, just as God is the goal, eternal and immovable, of all life. The world is man's abode. It is his to use during his preparation for the glory of his eternal home. For him the beauty of the skies; for him the heights of the mountains and the depths of the seas; for him the loveliness of the flowers and the utility of the animal kingdom. 
It is this concept of man and his rela­tion to his Creator that made one legal authority write: "Either the individual is a personal creature of God, or he is owned by the state. Either government is man's agent for the protection of God's gifts, or the Communist, Fascist, or some other cult of totalitarianism is correct. American government is built upon the fact of God's creation of the human soul. Our government is not the cause but the consequence of our God-given liberties." 
IL 
All would have been well with man, and his pursuit of happiness would have gone on serenely, had he not i>erversely ignored the eternal maker of the beauty and strength created for his benefit. Under the changing labels of material­ism, rationalism, agnosticism, modern­ism, and naturalism, a purely secular education destroyed the harmony of the world, cast God out of the life of man, and attacked man himself, the noblest of God's creatures. Man was gradually dehumanized until he became a mere au­tomaton, a robot, a glorified animal, suf­ficient to himself because his sufiSciency was from nature, and not from nature's God. He stood stripped of his faculties, robbed of his mind, and bereft of his soul. He became the "Almighty Man," divorced from Almighty God, Who had fashioned him after His own image and likeness. 
The IneTitable Result 
The result was inevitable. A machine age developed a machine man. The false God of science ruled supreme. All world­ly things, man included, were forced to adapt themselves to the vagaries of setf­appointed supermen. 
The analysis of man by the exponents of two nations now locked in the horrors of war indicates what a travesty the concept of man has become. One ideology says that "a human person is a material substance that has organized itselF'—a patent contradiction in terms. To expand this definition, Bucharin in the Commun­ist A.B.C. estimates that the elements of the human body have a commercial value of one ruble, ninety-five kopecks (about seventy cents). That is what "Al­mighty Man" is worth. The other—^the racist ideology—holds that "a human person is different from material sub­stance, but not essentially different from an animal." I quote the exact words of this biological materialism: "Between a man of a higher race and a man of low­er race there exists a more essential dif­ference than between a man of a lower race and a highly developed animal." Accordingly, the human person can be only an illusion because he has no im­mortal soul. He has iio faculties, no dig­nity, no rights. He is of the earth, earthy. What a contrast to the true ar­tistry of man, "made to the image and likeness of God," and using the fruits of the earth only in relation to his last end. 

is not subject to change with time and IV. 
ni. 
But let us not point too Pharisaical a finger at the ideologies that are ravaging Europe, because our own beloved coun­try has also had a part in destroying the true concept of man. 
Our heritag^e from the Founding Fa­thers is CSiristian. If only our spiritual gro\vth had kept pace wth our material progress! In the brief span of one hun­dred and sixty-five years the United States has become the richest nation in the world by applying man's ingenuity to nature's gifts. But in our development are gross irregularities that cannot be reconciled with our heritage. We seem to have forgotten what our ancestors knew so well: that God exists both as an immanent force as our Father in heav­en; that He is the fountain head of all authority. 
God-Relateil Perspective 

Our neglect—or denial—of our heri­tage is bearing fruit, among other places, in a field where it touches you, as Chris­tians, as Americans, and as la^\•ye^s. Its effects are only too evident in certain law schools that fail to teach law in its God-related perspective. The substance and manner of their teaching can be con­strued only as an attack upon the very foundations of American jurisprudence. There are, thank God, exceptions. One university that I know well—^because it has been part of my life for many years —.still cherishes the concept that gives American institutions their soul. In fact, the dean of its college of law recently stated publicly that an exhaustive study of the Declaration of Independence is a "must" for every student under his Jur­isdiction. I might add that his pronounce­ment has the militant approval of the president of that university. 
You lawyers know even better than I that for some time an astute and tire­less little band of atheists has been at work on a project for the secularization of American law. Surreptitiously but de­liberately, they have been opening the veins of our legal system and draining off its vital life blood. In truth, witnessed by the Declaration of Independence, reli­gion is the warp and woof of our entire American legal fabric. But these mate­rialistic schemers are schooling our gen­eration to think otherwise by constantly representing our law as a body of purely * secular regulations for the efficient man­agement of a completely secular order. 
All this is cynically calculated, first, to weaken, and then, as soon as possible, to cut the cord that anchors American jurisprudence to its moorings of God's own truth. The watchword of secularist jurisprudence is expediency. This school of legal thought recognizes no truth that circumstance. The secularists abhor the idea of natural law with natural rights of individual persons. Hence, they lose no opportunity to discredit the legal im­plications of the Declaration of Indepen­dence, the very birth certificate of Amer­ican jurisprudence. No secularist can af­ford to adtnit what the Declaration of Independence affirms, namely, the self-evident truth of God-^ven inalienable rights. No secularist dares to confess that to secure these rights, government with its implements—^its laws and offi­cers—is instituted among men. 
The Founding Fathers who defined the objects of our government and the ob­jects of its laws were men of unques­tioned faith in God. Without equivoca­tion and in crystal-clear terms, which even the intellectualists are unable to misconstrue, these Founding Fathers sentenced American law and American government to serve forever as man's democratically-chosen agent for the pro­tection of God's gifts. Once and for all, the founders of this nation welded the connection between religion and law. This is the safe anchorage of firm faith and fixed truth from which the secular­ists hope to cast adrift the American ship of state. 
Self-Evident Truths 

The self-evident truths of the Ameri­can Declaration of Independence consti­tute the only political refuge left in this mad totalitarian world. These truths, and they alone, are the basis of our dis­tinctively American and liberty-protect­ing practice of judicial review, which has its ultimate sanction, not in the let­ter, but in the spirit, of our constitution­al system—that is, in the inalienable-rights doctrine of the Declaration. These truths, and they alone, keep the Ameri­can citizen from descending to the level of a chattel, the servant of the State. They constitute the lawyer's only answer to the diabolical theories of the dictators. If the secularists should succeed in prov­ing that these self-evident truths are false, they will automatically prove that the totalitarian theories of Hitler and Stalin are scientific and correct. Like the European dictators, they are inoculated with a philosophy that leads eventually to the worship of the "Almighty Man." They would destroy God's creative pur­pose in regard to man, as so beautifully expressed by Shakespeare: 
"What a piece o£ work is man! How noble in reason! How infinite in faculty! In form and moving how express and admirable! In action how like an angel! In apprehension how like a God! The beauty of the world! The paragon of virtue!" 
—Shakespeare—Hamlet 
Coincident with the fall term of court, you have assembled here this morning with your beloved Bishop and priests to invoke the blessing of the Holy Spirit on another legal year. 
This is an ominous time, and God alone knows what the future holds. Yet, as true Catholic lawyers you face that future with strong faith, noble courage, and uncompromising principle. The na­tural law is based on the eternal law, which is God Himself. It is your heri­tage, as it is the heritage of every Chris­tian lawyer. You know as well as I that insidious movements now under way are based on the rank philosophy of natural­ism. They have as their objective the as­cendancy of man and of man-made law. Your attitude toward them is deter­mined. Your course is fixed. You must rise up as a body, united against their devices because you cannot compromise with objective truth. 
When certain groups under the guise of rebuilding the United States attempt to change the substance of our govern­ment, from which human positive law proceeds, take your stand on the side of justice, and, tearing off the mask of the dissemblers, say to them in the language of the court: "It shall not be. Case dis­missed!" For what is needed are legal lights to shine, not when the world is bright, but when the world is dark, re­flecting always the rays of the Supreme Lawgiver! 
Concerning the Sangerites 
When Sangerites and others, purvey­ors of filthy doctrines, attempt to have their iniquitous teachings legalized by statute, take your stand on the side of basic morality, and declare that God's commandment, "Thou shalt not kill," is as binding today as it ever was, and in the language of the court, say: "It shall not be. Case dismussed!" For what is needed are legal lights to shine, not when the world is bright, but when the world is dark, reflecting always the rays of the Supreme Lawgiver! 
When certain legal ethicians attempt to develop a cult which changes the the­ory of the law so that the institution of naarriage, the right to educate, the right to property, the protection of the weak, and other essential rights proper to the individual are taken from him and sub­ordinated to state or federal control, rally to the dig^nity of the human person­ality. For the rights involved here are antecedent to any human society. In the language of the court: "It shall not be. Case dismissed!" For what is needed are l<^al lights to shine, not when the world is bright, but when the world is dark, re­
(Continued on page 27) 



Stand By For Action 
An Editorial 

On Aug. 16, 1941, President Harry F. Kelly, '17, launched his first meeting of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Asso­ciation. 
On Oct. 3, as a result of that meeting, the Board met again, augmented by more Club and Class representatives, and Dis­trict Governors and Lieutenant Governors in the East. 
On Nov. 14, the Board will meet in Chicago, this time with the District and Club officers of the Middle West. 
For too many years we have had wishful thinking, and even some thoughtful wishing. 
In the words of Catholic Action, we have spent a long time in observing and judging. 
Under Harry Kelly, we are face to face with action! 
This is a crisis for Notre Dame, as it is a crisis for all of us in this world. 
It is the time at last for every Notre Dame man to play his part. That is all President Kelly and the Board expect of you. 
And it is admitted by the University and alunmi adminis­trations that some mutual blame attaches to the fact that most Notre Dame men are not aware that (a) Notre Dame faces a crisis, and (b) every Notre Dame man has a part. 
A financial program is being evolved by the Board of Direc­tors. The helpful advice of the University has been sought and given, so that our program will further the program of the University and strengthen it in the present and future chal­lenges it faces. The cooperation of the Clubs and the Classes and the Districts is being sought, so that our program will enjoy the rapid realization that comes from immediate imity. 
As a result of President Kelly's vigorous administration, there should emerge in the December ALUMNUS a program for all Clubs, a program for all Districts. It will not be a theory tossed in your lap. It will be a program gleaned from long hours of discussion with men in the Club and Class and District. 
It OTU be a program already under way in several Clubs and Classes as test cases. 
We are confident of the results of the test. 
There are many symbols at Notre Dame. 
There is the cross on the spire of the Church—God. 
There is the flag flying from the high mast by the Com­merce Building—Country. 
And there is, perhaps most indelible in our memories, the beautiful golden figure on the Dome—Notre Dame. 
To preserve these symbols, and to permit them to enjoy the development that has come with the first hundred years, the slightly less heroic, but eminently basic symbol of the | must be spotlighted. 
However, and this is the thesis of President Kelly's belief, if a Notre Dame man thinks seriously at the present time of what the cross, and the flag, and Oar Lady in the functioning of our University, mean to him, and to bis fotnre, and. to America, and its future, the $ becomes a logical as well as a necessary part of the picture. 
In no instance where Father Hugh O'Donnell or Father John Cavanangh have presented the present needs of Notre Dame, and in no instance where these needs have introduced a discussion among representative alumni or outside ftiends, has there been anything but an enthusiastic resolution to do something immediately to alter conditions which now threaten Notre Dame's position. 
Many favorable circumstances have brought prosperity, especially evident, physical prosperity, to Notre Dame. 
A good enrollment, popular athletic teams, the services of the Keligious without salary, eflScient management of the large business operations of the campus, and a limited endowment with a few scattered gifts from individual benefactors, have resulted in a University which can face proudly any visitor, which can face confidently the young man receiving its diplo­ma, which can stand favorably in comparison with its contem­porary educational institutions. 
To effect this, some of the usual educational policies of large endowment, large reserves, increased fees for students, have had to wait. But enrollment and athletic receipts are transient things. Operating costs have skyrocketed beyond the conception of the average alumnus, despite condnning econo-
You will have, almost with this ALVMNHS magazine, a beautiful story of Notre Dame, in the words of Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., '16, the president of the University. Read it carefully. It is the background necessary to the staging of the campaign which President Harry Kelly is so actively readying. 
Father Cavanaugh's article in the October ALUMNUS bears reading and re-reading. The significant comments of Lay Trus­tee C. Roy McCanna in this issue, focus the spotlight on the reactions along these lines of a man not so closely integrated with Notre Dame originally as you were—^but a Notre Dame man in the finest sense of the term. 
All these things add up. And you will have more of the factors presented to you. Notre Dame has one of the soundest cases to sell, in a good interpretation of the word, of all of the educational interests in this country. 
You, the alumni, are the logical and the necessary channels through which must come (a) the support you can give, which can be substantial in itself, and (b) the supjmrt which you can enlist from others, which is unlimited. 
Emphasis will naturally fall on the raising of money— never a popular program. 
Remember this, in our activities ahead—however-frequent­ly you may hear or see the symbol $, it is presented to yon only to bring about the continuing progress and the lasting values of the other great symbols under whose protection you studied, God, Country, and Notre Dame. 
Tom Barry Resigns To Take 
Chicago Newspaper Job 

Thomas J. Barry, publicity director of the University since 1934 and business manager of student publications since 1938, resigned Oct. 25 to become regional editor of the new Chicago morning news­paper being organized by Co-Publishers Marshall Field III and Silliman Evans. 
The Kev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, pres­ident of the University, announced the resignation of Mr. Barry and also stated that James E. Armstrong, '25, editor of the ALUMNUS and secretary of the Na­tional Notre Dame Alumni Association, will supervise all publicity at the Uni­versity. Mr. Armstrong will be assisted by William K. Dooley, '26, managing edi­tor of the ALUMNUS and director of the Notre Dame Placement Bureau, and Jo­seph S. Petritz, '32, sports publicity director. The new appointments become effective Nov. 1. Mr. Dooley will handle 
the business department of student pub­lications. 
The resigning Notre Dame publicist, one of the best known in the field of col­lege press circles, returned to Notre Dame in 1934 after having served nine years as a reporter and editor of sub­urban editions of the Chicago Herald-Examiner. He had majored in commerce at Notre Dame and received his degree in 1925. 
At Notre Dame, Mr. Barry was also associate professor in the Journalism De­partment under Dr. John M. Cooney. He taught classes in copy reading and edit­ing, the community newspaper, sports writing, advertising, and publicity and 
ThomBS J. Barry 

N. D. LAWYERS MEET IN INDIANAPOLIS 
Left (o right: Patrick J. Fisher. '3fi: Jutkc Wdud I> Fansler, '04; Dean Clarence E. Hanion, '22; Rer. John J. Cavanansh. C.S.C., '23; Geotn N. Beaawr. '29; P. C Reillr. LL.D., '39, and Joseph a. 
Arsus. '35. 
The Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis was host at a dinner Oct. 1, at the In­dianapolis Athletic Club, for Notre Dame alumni attending the annual meeting of the American Bar Association. Patrick J..Fisher, '36, Indianapolis attorney, was toastmaster and general chairman of the dinner meeting which was attended by 
92. Such dinners will, it is expected, be­come annual events at the American Bar Association gatherings. 
Clarence E. Manion, dean of the Col­lege of Law, and one of the principal speakers of the evening, asserted that people today are losing sight of a funda­mental concept that all men are created equal by God and through Him are given inalienable rights. There is an in­separable relationship bet\veen God and the government. Dean Manion said, "and 
public relations. He wU continue to teach his current classes until the end of the semester. 
The new morning Chicago paper will be published six days a week. Mr. Barry will supervise work of correspondents in the entire circulation area outside of metropolitan Chicago, with Illinois, Mich­igan, Indiana, Wisconsin and Iowa the leading contributors. 
Mr. Barry has been a member of the aviation committee of the Association of Commerce. In 1939 he was a member of a special social action commission to Venezuela, South America, that was headed by Notre Dame's former presi­dent, the Most Kev. John F. O'Hara. C.S.C, D.D., now military delegate. 
if there are no God-given rights there is no excuse for a Constitution." 
Dean Manion's talk followed an ad­dress by Michael L. Fansler, '04, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Indiana, who said that the fundamental task of lawyers in defense of the nation is the education of those who are not aware of the wisdom and necessity of our institu­tions and government. 
Others on the program included the Eev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, vice-president of the University; George N. Beamer, '29, attorney-general of Indi­ana; P. C. Beilly, LL.D. '39, a trustee of Notre Dame; and Joseph H. Argus, '35, president of the Noti-e Dame Club of In­dianapolis. 
Among those present were Homer Q. Earl, James Kearney, Elton E. Kichter, and W. D. Rollison, all members of the faculty of the College of Law; Hon. Wil­liam Fitzgerald, '23, judge of the Circuit Court, North Vernon, Ind.; Michael B. Reddington, '26, city attorney of Indian­apolis; L. J, Eeach, '08, president of the Board of Safety of Indianapolis; and James E. Deery, '10, Indianapolis city controller. 
Assisting Chairman Fisher were the following committees: Special guests, Mr. Beamer, Norman E. Duke, Elmer F. Harschino and Paul N. Rowe; arrange­ments, Joseph P. McNamara, William H. Konop and Walter W. Houppert; speak­ers, Mr. Fansler, Mr. Deery, Mr. Red­dington, and Captain William H. Kreig, l^al advisor to the state selective ser­vice board; reception, John T. Rocap, Thomas J. Blackwell, and Robert D. Ma­lamey; and reservations, Frank Noll, Jr., John J. McShane, James D. Collins, and Walter Stanton. 
Observations of a Lay Trustee 
(Editor^ note: The ALUMNUS reprints hereioith excerpts from a report to the Board of Lay Trustees by C. Boy Mc-Canna, Biirlington, Wis., treasurer of the Board. Mr. MeCanna's study of the problem is self-evident in his report. His interest has been keen in Notre Dame affairs, through his membership on the Board since 1932, and through the pres­ence of his sons as students in the Uni­versity. In view of the Centennial inter­est and program, the excerpts chosen have particular timelitiess and interest for alumni.) 
"In my report of two years ago I stated there seem to be only two options left to those with wealth. One is to give gen­erously to church, charity and education while living, and enjoy the pleasure, hap­piness and satisfaction of seeing the fruits of the gifts grow in abundance. The other is, after death to let the tax collector take most of the wealth. There is little pleasure or consolation in the latter prospect. . . . 
Facing Low Income Returns "The finance committee on the Board of Trustees facing (these) low income returns on their investments are explor­ing various prospective sources of con­tributions which may substantially in­crease their portfolio. I should like to call the Board's attention to one of these sources, if we may call it a source, or to a coming event. It is a most oppor­tune time and should be the means of raising substantial sums of money for endowment, gifts and bequests to the University of Notre Dame. This ap­proaching event should be of great sig­nificance to the Board of Trustees. Your attention undoubtedly has been called to it. . . . 
"Within the past few years well known colleges and universities in this country have celebrated their centennials. The raising of centennial funds has been a most important part of their programs. 
"With our approaching Centennial in mind, possibly the Board of Lay Trus­tees could give some suggestions to the officers, faculty, and alimmi for the rais­ing of a substantial fund for this event. 
 do not know of anything the Board could do that would gladden the hearts of the University officers and faculty 
By C ROy McCANNA 
Treasurer of the Board of Lay Trustees 

more than our participation in the Cen­tennial celebration. In this participation the Board of Lay Trustees may be ex­ceeding their normal duties, but it would be fine encouragement to the ofiicers of the University and to the alumni, espe­cially at this time. The raising of an endowment fund by gifts and bequests in honor of this Centennial would be for­ever remembered. . . . 
Words of John F. Gushing "I recall the words of one of our late Trustees of Notre Dame, John F. Cnsh­ing. It was at the first meeting of the Board I attended here in 1932. At that meeting Mr. Cushing said, 'Mr. McCan­na, I think it is a great honor and a priv­ilege indeed to be one of the members of the Lay Board of Trustees of Notre Dame. We are given an opportunity to participate in the education of our young men here at Noti-e Dame where both the intellectual and spiritual life are so well exemplified.' 
"John F. Cushing's name is carved deep in stone on his memorial here at Notre Dame, and his memory is en­shrined in the hearts of Notre Dame men everywhere. Not only did he give of his time at our Board meetings, but gave his fullest co-operation and en­couragement to the oiBcers and alumni for any appeals for Notre Dame. He was a Notre Dame graduate and a most suc­cessful business man. 
"Mr. Cushing knew full well what the future would demand of college and uni­versity graduates. His memorial here is evidence of his interest in Notre Dame, and of his desire to participate in the educational activities of our youth. The Cushing Memorial was built with the confidence and hope that the young men graduating in the field of engineering would be a credit to the University and successful in their field of life. His heart and soul was in this University. Service to the University as trustee was to this man not only an honor but a privilege. 
"Many colleges and universities of England, France, Germany, Belgium, and other parts of Europe, are closed if not indeed destroyed. The great Univer­sity of Poland is in ruins. Young men are at war, or preparing for war, in all parts of Europe. 
"It has been said that here in America ' higher education must be intensified and 
that the efficiency and breadth of learn­
ing must be increased, for America is 
the only major nation today which is in 
normal condition to carry on the process­
es of education. Colleges and universi­
ties, however, can not serve efficiently, 
and education can not be intensified, 
without financial assistance. 
"Private colleges and universities will 
have more difficult problems to meet in 
the future. The most important, in my 
judgment, is the financial one. The fi­
nance committees of private colleges and 
universities can confirm this statement. 
"Additional endowment, through gifts 
and bequests, is most necessary to pri­
vate institutions if they are to meet the 
advanced standards of higher education, 
and the competition of state colleges and 
universities. This competition is becom­
ing a major problem for private schools. 
Lower fees, larger resources, and oppor­

tunities for students to work their way 
through school, are some of the greater 
attractions at state institutions. The Na­

tional Youth Administration has assisted 
a part of the student body of the private 
schools, but there is no certainty this 
aid will continue. 
Foundation Policies Changed 
"Dr. Trevor Amett, vice-president and 

trustee of the University of Chicago, re­
cently stated, 'The large foundations 
whose conditional appropriations to col­
leges and universities have been an im­
portant element in the building up of 
endowments, have changed their policies 
and have almost completely discontinued 
this tjrpe of assistance. It is thus evi­
dent,' continued Dr. Amett, that col­
leges and universities must cultivate 
more intensively other sources of en­
dowment funds if they wish to increase 
them, and this is what colleges and imi­
versities are endeavoring to do.' 
"There is a wide spread conviction 

among trustees of colleges and universi­
ties—and as yon know, these trustees 
are representative men in industry, fi­
nance, commerce, and the professions— 
that it is most essential to continue fi­
nancial assistance to the private schools. 
If hi^e r education is to be further for­
tified it is necessary to maintain a strong 
system of private educational instito­
tions, not only for contribntions to hl^ ­
10 
er learning in their particular fields, but because of their freedom from political control and the beneficial influence these educational institutions exert on the pol­icies of state supported schools. 
"At our Board meeting a year ago a resolution was passed requesting the chairman of our Board to appoint a committee of three to consider the possi­bility of raising funds through the alum­ni for graduate work here at the Uni­versity. It is true most generous and continuous support should be expected from our alumni. However, in the light of world conditions, and the University's approaching centennial, it seems to me the time is most appropriate for us to encourage and assist every effort of the University and its alumni in solicitation of funds by gifts and bequests, particu­larly for the further development of graduate work. 
Needs of the University 

"I trust you will not tliink me over zealous in my efforts or suggestions to increase our endowment funds through gifts and bequests. You know the many needs of the University. You may recall the brochure entitled, 'The Will to Serve,' distributed by the University a few years ago. It stated the urgent need of buildings. At the present time a build­ing for aeronautical engineering is ur­gently needed; also a resident hall for graduate students and a museum of fine arts. Certain types of buildings can well serve as articulate memorials and there­fore offer special appeal to the generosi­ty of pro.spective donors. It is possible then that funds for these buildings may be less difficult to secure than funds for general endowment purposes. 
"We confidently hope that tlie coming Centennial will bring endowments, by gifts and bequests, to the University. Down through all these years Notre Dame has been blessed from time to time 
•\vith generous benefactions. May I re­peat a few words of my report of last year, as they seem to have new import now in view of the approaching Centen­nial. 'It is most encouraging to know that here at Notre Dame gifts and be­quests have become more common in re­cent years. Some of them have been rel­atively very large, all of them represent sacrifice, some of them have represented great sacrifice. These gifts and bequests have come to Notre Dame at a most op­portune time, for with the diminishing return on our endowment and trust 
funds, the University personnel would be called upon for a greater contribu­tion of their service'; We know that at least one-third of its services are now 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
contributed by the religious who work 
without pay.' 
"It is the determination of the admin­istration at Notre Dame to keep the charges low enough to be within the range of the. poor boy. Probably this policy has caused the general public to believe the University enjoys a much stronger financial position than is actual­ly the case. It should never be forgotten that the spirit of giving and of service is an important factor in the progress and success of Notre Dame. The reli­gious who have labored and sacrificed, and who have taught Christian princi­ples here since the days of Father Sorin, nearly one hundred years ago, translate that spirit of giving into the love and service of Almighty God. This building, erected to the memory of the great Rockne, properly symbolizes that spirit of giving. Rockne, you will recall, was so deservedly spoken of in the late Fa­ther Charles O'DonneU's beautiful trib­ute as a 'go-giver' and not a 'go-getter.' 
"The names of Sorin, Badin, Walsh, Zahm, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Cartier, Hur­ley and Cu-shing, are carved deep in stone and in the hearts of Notre Dame men everywhere. May they continue to inspire benefactors to g^ive generously to the University of Notre Dame in years to come. 
Advertising Association Starts New N. D. Foundation 
"Notre Dame has received an exclusive grant to conduct classes in Outdoor Ad­vertising—and Notre Dame is the only University in the country which has such a course," James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce, explained after returning from representing the school at the Golden Anniversary Convention of the Outdoor Advertising Association of America, Inc., at Los Angeles, Calif., Oct. 5-10. 
Classes in the new Foundation which provides for a permanent plan of formal and informal instruction in the theory and practice of outdoor advertising be­gan early in November, under the direc­tion of three members of the current University staff, the Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C, Dean McCarthy, and Her­bert F. Klingman. They are to be aug­mented from time to time by visiting lecturers, persons prominently associated with outdoor advertising in the business world today. 
The new foundation is sponsored and financed by the Outdoor Advertising As­sociation of America, Inc. The aim of the foundation is to train specially-qualified • students for expert work in the field of outdoor advertising. The special aims of the foundation are: 1) to establish a centrally located depository for published materials and original documents of his­torical interest in the field of outdoor ad­vertising; 2) with these library facilities as the basis of operation, to serve as a clearing house of information concerning outdoor advertising; 3) to make at the University provision for research toward solution of practical problems in the field of outdoor advertising, at the re­quest of and in cooperation with the Association or its individual members; 
4) to make available to all students in the College of Commerce specific instruc­tion relating to the outdoor advertising medium; and 5) to make available to the outdoor advertising industry selected and specially trained graduates of the Notre Dame College of Commerce. 
Foundation Library Here 

The Foundation Library is located on the mezzanine floor of the University Library. Periodicals, exhibits and books are displayed there. Considerable pub­lished and documental material has al­ready been received by the University from the Outdoor Advertising Associa­tion. 
Among the important contributions are: the Barney Link Research Fellow­ship Studies conducted at the University of Wisconsin under the sponsorship of the Association; the Reports of the Traf­fic and Trade Research conducted at Harvard University under the direction of Dr. Miller McClintock and sponsored by the Outdoor Advertising Association of America, the Association of National Advertisers, and the Association of Ad­vertising Agencies; material dealing with the establishment and operation of the Traflic Audit Bureau; and docu­ments and publications relating to the history, policies, procedures and activi­ties of Outdoor Advertising, Inc. 
While at the Los Angeles convention. Dean McCarthy had a prominent posi­tion on the program entitled, "Public Relations," held on Oct. 8. He described the nature and type of instruction which the 20 selected juniors and seniors re­ceive at Notre Dame. On the same pro­gram with Dean McCarthy were: E. C. Donnelly, Jr., presiding officer and presi­dent of John Donnelly and Sons; Merle 
L. McGinnis, educational director of Braun and Co.; Charles W. Collier, man­aging director of the Pacific Advertising Association; Henry T. Ewald, president of the Campbell-Ewald Co., Inc., and chairman of the board. National Outdoor Advertising Bureau; and Dr. McClin­tock, of Harvard University. 
By JOSEPH S. PETRITZ, '32 

ATHLETICS 
Young Mr. (Tom Edison) Leahy has convinced this department, after five games of 1941, that he is one of the most imaginative and one of the sound­est football tutors in this nation. 
By the time this reaches your eyes, Notre Dame may have lost to Army and Navy, and possibly Northwestern, for timeliness is not the essence of these contributions to Notre Dame belle lettres. 
But the outcome of the four games that remain as this is composed will not change our estimate of Brother Leahy, which is not our exclusive discovery by any manner of means. 
Notre Dame has defeated Arizona, 38 to 7; Indiana, 19 to 6; Georgia Tech, 20 to 0; Carnegie Tech, 16 to 0; and Illi­nois, 49 to 14. The cynic might remark, in a burst of originality, "So what!" 
Experiments that Pay Dividends 
Our restrained answer would have to be, "So nothing." It is the manner of these victories that counts. And the con­duct of Irish football affairs would still get huzzahs from this comer even if these games had not been won. Our frank opinion is that the Irish could have beaten its first three opponents more soundly, that it should have taken Carnegie Tech by a larger count, and that the Illinois score should not have been quite as decisive as it was. 
Leaving this opinion entirely without visible means of support, let's take a look at some of 33-year-oId Mr. Leahy's earlier inventions before getting down to the point. 
We would have been around and about the country a bit in the past few months, and some of the boys yowled because the B squad was discontinued. Now the in­crease of interest in the interhall system —in which the Bees of. last year are plajnng with other lads of their o^vn size, experience, and ability—^has the campus endorsing this move strongly. 
To get some more cards on the table, let's haul out that other dead cat: "What's the idea, Leahy, of bringing in fellows from Texas Tech and Fordham to tell Notre Dame gents how to play football. Notre Dame traditionally sends graduates out to tell other schools how theij should play!" 
Our only regret is that not all of those who raised this issue have been able to meet Ed McKeever, Joe McArdle, and Johnny Druze. While they adopted Notre Dame a little later than you did, they possess every requisite of fine coach­es, loyal sons of the University and gen­tlemen. We lost Chet Grant, Joe Boland, and Joe Benda—^we have gained three other fine sons by adoption. We make no direct comparison here when we say no Notre Dame man comports himself with more consciousness of the dignity of the University than do these three. None we ever observed here ever worked any harder for the glory of Notre Dame than these. 
Manual coaching, as Bill Cunningham calls it, has been reintroduced to the campus, and it is getting results. Mc­Keever, McArdle, and Druze judge a player by his "thump" . . . and they find out personally about this earthy quality in daily blocking drills. They'll have more varicose veins than Fort Knox has ingots, but Notre Dame will have a football team. 
Getting down to more technical as­pects of the game, Leahy still uses the basic Notre Dame box and balanced line, plus his own version, a lop-sided inter­pretation, of T-formation. "I just want Notre Dame to have representative teams, and I would use the double wing­back if I thought it would w n games," Leahy admits. Heresy? Well, don't get too excited, for Leahy is doing all right with the traditional system. And to us it sounds more like common sense than radicalism. 
Helps End Block Tackle 
'•We haven't been able to teach a 170­or 180-pound end to handle a 230-pound tackle alone," Leahy grants modestly enough, "and maybe the fault is with us. For this reason, the lead back plays wide—out on the wing—and helps the end block the tackle. Otherwise the box is the same as we found it." 
The linemen shift—but always into a balanced line—^for various good reasons covered in an earlier piece. 
Leahy is not a Johnny-come-lately when it comes to T-formation. He was not awed into using it by the success of the Chicago Bears or the Stanford^— he used it in his first season at Boston College, which was 1939. And he used it successfolly. It isn't the same "T" used by those powerhouses just mentioned. The quarterback does not handle the ball —although he's in position behind one or the other of the guards—to do so, and the threat is there. 
We have long maintained that there is nothing really new in football. A survey made half a dozen years ago found Notre Dame alumni mentors in agreement. They had come up with little or nothing that the late Knute Bockne had not tried at one time or another. The unbal­anced line, flankers, two men spinning, split tackles and a few other variations were cited as sounding the death knell of the Notre Dame system—but "Rock" had used all of them. 
Soncetfains New In Football 
Now we're beginning to wonder. Al­most everyone has gone from Rock's de­fensive alignment, the seven and box or seven and diamond, into a 6-2-2-1. A few have digressed to a 5-3-2-1. But so far as we know Leahy is the first to come up with the defense that looks like a phone number, namely 4-3-1-2-1. It was used with success against Georgia Tech and against Illinois. The Irish intercepted 6 out of 11 Georgia Tech passes, allowing one completion for 7 yards. They inter­cepted 6 out of 25 Illinois tossies, allow­ing 11 completions, but most of the com­pletions (nine) were in the first half, and three of the interceptions came in each half. The four-man line was not employed nntil the second half. 
Imagine anyone thinking up a four-man line—^Tom Stidham did, as a gag, when he said that he wouldn't have enough Marquette linemen to ' field a more numerous front wall. Then imagine anyone being reckless enough to use it, having dreamed it up. 
And when you have rested up fcom all that imagining, concentrate on this situation: a tricky, star-loaded Illinois team, engineered by the wily Bob Znpp­ke, is to play yon day after tomorrow. Zappke, noted npsetter of giants, keying his team to save his season, will be pres­ent two days hence. But your team has scrimmaged for three days and it looked tired on Wednesday. You know that the best possible preparation for Saturday's game is to give the lads a day off—but what of the criticism if the upset mate­rializes? Would you muster up courage enough to dismiss the first and second teams from practice on Thursday before a major game. Leahy did. His refreshed Irish romped to a 49 to 14 victory, get­ting four touchdowns in the final period. 
This Notre Dame team is in condition. No regular missed starting any game be­cause of injuries in the first five games. Only t(vo second team men were held out of one game apiece because of injuries— and they could have played. Such giants as Wally Ziemba, Bob Neff, Jim Brutz, . Capt. Paul Lillis, and Bob Maddock have shed from 10 to 25 pounds since last year 
this time. 
The Irish out-conditioned every one of their first five opponents. The same may not be true against the service teams, which live an even more Spartan campus existence than Notre Dame lads. We doubt, however, if any team in the nation worked harder in the spring, or works harder now. Yet, when the first sign of staleness appeared even though it was two days before a major game, the 22 men assigned to carry the burden on Saturday, were given a chance to take in a movie! 
Cold Facts and Figures 
Notre Dame's pass defense didn't look so hot against Indiana and Arizona, per­mitting those two teams to complete two touchdown passes, and to succeed on 11 out of 37 passes for 216 yards. Only four tosses were intercepted. Now the total reads, 82 attempts, 24 comi)leted, 19 in­tercepted, and 331 yards. 
The Irish gave up 151 yards to Ari­zona on the ground. The total for five games was 179 yards, or an average of 36 yards per game per opponent. That, friends, is making adjustments in a hurry! 
Carnegie Tech, inspired by a hullaba­loo about calling oif the game so the Tartans wouldn't be disgraced or crip­pled, and aided by a juicy, rain-sodden field, held the Irish from the goal line three times inside the five-yard line. The next Monday, the Irish scrimmaged. A varsity line opposed a freshman line, and the fullbacks practiced line drives, one after the other for nearly half an hour. Then full varsity teams opposed full frosh teams on the 10-yard line, and again the fullbacks were permitted to carry the ball on every play. Finally, all hands got a chance to lug the oval with 10 yards the quota in four downs. 
The breath-taking exploits of Accur­ate Angelo Bertelli, sophomore left half who casts for yardage and lands it 60 percent of the time, has not blinded Leahy to the need of a sound running game. 
The Irish have run 280 times for 949 yards. They have passed only 85 times, completing 47, wth seven intercepted, for 767 yards. Of this statistic, Bertelli can claim 37 completions, and four intercep-. tions, for 571 yards in 62 attempts. 
We shan't indulge our passion for sta­tistics any further, for these figures will be colder than figures usually are by the time you read them. These numbers, however, give you an idea. 
On the material that was left after seven 1940 regulars were graduated the Irish figrured to lose three or four games. Maybe they still will, but find a bookie who would bet you on it at less than 1,000 to 1! 
Let's Look at the Results 
Realist that he is, Leahy made certain lineup shifts that stand a review at this time. We mildly opposed the move of Bemie Crimmins from fullback to guard —but we opposed it silently, or else to the coaches themselves, figuring • that Bernie would be held up as proof of the old saw that a guard is just a fullback with his brains knocked out. Well. B. Crimmins is starting every game at right guard, he's liking it better every week although he's been sold on it for a long time, and he's a country mile better at guard than he ever was in the backfield. We don't have statistics to prove this, and you'll just have to examine the mo­vies of all games for three years to find out for yourself. 
Wally Ziemba, a converted right tackle, is in a fair way to becoming an all-American at center. He hasn't made more than a couple of bad passes. And his defense play draws sighs of admira­tion from the reticent Mr. L. 
Harry Wright, another confirmed full­back, has come along fast at quarter­back, improving every week in technique and generalship. Bob Hargrave still plays plenty, with both the first and sec­ond teams. But Wright's extra speed and extra 20 pounds give him the bulge over such an experienced and talented gentle­man (and we use the word advisedly) as Hargrave. 
The fullback situation was a headache to Leahy all spring. He now has Dippy Evans at the post—it's no secret, folks, for he's scored 43 points to Jnzvrfk's 44, carried the ball 78 times (23 more than Creighton Miller or Juzwik), made 326 yards, nearly 100 more than Juzwik, his nearest pursuer, and he still gets to punt, return kickoffs, and field passes. In other words, he's red hot, having played his finest game against Illinois. 
The Team Won't Let Him Down 
We'll let you in on a little secret now. Leahy is not always the soft-spoken, mild-mannered gent you see at alumni meetings, that the newspapermen meet, and that does public speaking designed to soothe the audience as a candidate for congress might. On the practice field —^and this is a family secret, gents—he has bad moods some times. He has a select few targets for his most biting sarcasm. Within the past two weeks we have casually sought out each of these gents and, after slyly starting a conver­sation about the weather and his per­sonal bumps and bruises, we have asked what he thought of Leahy. 
Every one, we can report, was enthu­siastic in his praise of Notre Dame's head coach as a man and as a coach. 
This little story came to us from Capt. Lillis after the Georgia Tech game. Paul is not one of the proving grounds for Leahy's occasional jibes, incidentally. We asked Paul how the boys liked things in general and Leahy in particular. 
"Everything's fine," he replied. "There's wonderful cooperation between the backs and the linemen, and the backs are al­ways putting in little fakes and the like to help us set up our blocks. The spirit is great. 
"To give you an example, last Satur­day in the Georgia Tech game, one of our linemen got very tired for it was a hot day. He told me after the game that he got particularly tired on a punt, on which he was supposed to try to rush the kicker and then retreat to block for who­ever caught it. He said he felt like tak­ing it a little easy. 'Then,' he said, 'the thought struck me that the coach would feel terrible if he saw me loafing, so I just dug in and did my best.' There was no fear of reprisal," Lillis pointed out, "but only concern for how badly .Leahy might feel." 
That tells you better than anything else we might write, just how the boys feel about Frank W. Leahy. 

Interest High in Interhall Football 
Tradition claims that interhall foot­ball was the major campus attraction long before varsity teams spelled Notre Dame on gridirons across the nation. The story further alleges that students of Carroll and Bro\vnson dormitories battled for the Main Building champion­
• ship. The trophy was a barrel of apples awarded by the Prefect of Discipline to the victorious team—a distant cousin of the niftily - uniformed aggregations of 1941. 
Under the capable direction of Dr. Elvin R. Handy of the Department of Physical Education, the 1941 version of Irish interhall football is operating with increased interest. Nearly 400 boys this year are competing in the two leagues. "Every boy has a chance to play football but there is no force used in getting them to compete—everyone reports of his own free will," Dr. Handy announced. 
Sunday mornings at 9:30 and again at 1:30 p.m., Cartier field—scene of the exploits of George Gipp, Knute Eockne, the Four Horsemen, and other Irish grid greats of the pre-Stadium era—once more becomes the haven of activity. Crowds of 1,500 students, members of the faculty and townspeople from South Bend are not unusual. Three games are in ses'sion at the same time on three dif­ferent fields inside the spacious fences of historic Cartier Field. 
George Gipp, generally considered the acme of Notre Dame football players, Norm Barry (whose son is an end on the 1941 Irish varsity squad), and Jack Kobinson, all-American center, are three of the greatest products of the interhall system. 
Brownson, Walsh, Sorin, Corby and Off-Campus have been the most consist­ent interhall winners. And this year Walsh and Dillon are regarded as the teams to beat. To the titlist this season goes the Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C. trophy—an award presented by the cur­rent president of the University, and a varsity football player a quarter of a century ago. 
Teams Fight for the Father O'Donnell Trophy; Doctor E R. Handy Directs Program. 
By William E. Scanlan, "42 

In 1928 the Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C, officially appointed the Rev. Vin­cent Mooney, C.S.C, director of the in­terhall program, while a year later Coach Rockrie created a Board of Direc­tors, composed of the 12 hall rectors, with the Prefect of Discipline at that time as its head. He also named George Keogah, head basketball coach, the "Judge Landis" of the league to settle all disputes and protests, as well as to handle the assigning of fields and ofli­cials. 
Frank Leahy, the new Irish director of athletics and head football coach, got 
Some Interhall Action 

his start on the coaching horizon by tutoring Badin hall players, getting aid from such men as Walsh and O'Connor. Dr. Eddie Anderson, now of Iowa, coached Brownson to the 1921 inter­hall title. Among other past grid greats who handled interhall assignments were: Marty Brill, old Freshman; Frank Cari­deo, Howard; Tom Yarr, Brownson; Joe Savoldi and George Melinkovich, Walsh; Johnny O'Brien, Corby; Ray Brancheau, Alumni; and Joe Sheeketski, Off-Cam­pus. 
One of the important cogs in making interhall football a success—^then and now—is the managerial system. Dan Hal-pin was major domo of the managers in 1930 when the managers directed the program. This year John Bermingham is chief of managers. 
Along about Thanksgiving Day, the championship game between the victors of the two leagues, clash in the stadium —-with players outfitted in the "silks" of the varsity. Before players can compete in the current interhall arrangement, they must have a thorough physical ex­amination.. Dr. J. E. McMeel, varsity team physician, and his assistant. Dr. Joseph Caton, handle the examinations at the Student Infirmary. 
Dr. Handy, assistant track coach under the late John P. Nicholson and currently freshman mentor and assistant to Coach Bill Mahoney, has been active in the Notre Dame interhall program since 1930. Last year he directed the revival of the interhall program which was won by St. Edward's hall on the flip of a coin after it had battled Dillon to a scoreless tie in the championship game. 
Playing an important part in the cur­rent program are the interhall coaches, —^members of Dr. John A. Scannell's Department of Physical Education, or past Irish varsity or B squad teams. Coaches by teams include: League I— Dillon — Bill Stewart, Jr., Dorchester, Mass.; Brownson—Paul Corgan, Alma, Mich.; Zahm — John Jaworski, South Bend, and Bill Scanlan, La Crosse Wis.; Morrissey — Elmer Peterson, Chicago; Carroll—Mike Mahon, Bayonne, N. J.; St. Edward's—Jerry Orosz, South Bend. 
League II — Walsh — Joe Ragolia. Trenton, N. J., and Bill Regan, Whar­ton, N. J.; Cavanaugh—John McNulty and Dick Murphy, both of Oak Park, 111.; Howard—^Nick Pepelnjak, Virgfinia, Minn., and Jim O'Brien, Elmhurst, N. Y.; Badin—^Frank Piatt, Johnston, Pa., and Jack Brown, Jr., Elkins, W. Va.: Lyons—Ken Gempel, Adrian, Mich.; and Breen-PhiHips—Anthony Buono, Sauger­ties, N. Y. Alumni and Sorin are not rep­resented this year, most of the alleged football players being engineers whose late lab hours make practices impossible —and loop rules designate definite pre­game practices must be held. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Sophomores received 2 a.m. permissions 

.. . And became tired at 10 pjn., usual By William L Scanlan, '42 '^ghts out" period . . . Cotillion guests 
STUDENT NOTES 
filled a spedal section in the north end 
CAMPUS GOES MILITARISTIC 
Mid-October weeks suggested militar­ism in full dress rehearsals when 32 Monogram club candidates turned square comers, carried mini­ature toy rifles, deliv­ered cokes at 10 pjn. to veteran members, and got up at 5 a.m. —^for a cool wash in the lake. . . . Clean shirts took a promi­nent part in the initi­ation, together with 
SCAHIAN 
soldier hat or helmet, and suit coat. .. . No sweaters. . . . Footgear consisted of one white and one black shoe. . . . Cadets were called to order by "Majors" James Brutz, War­ren, Ohio, and Robert Dove, Youngstown, Ohio. . . . New Monog:ram officers are: Hercules Bereolos, Hammond, Ind., pres­ident; Robert Hargrave, Evansville, Ind., vice-president; Edward J. Sullivan, Belle Harbor, L.I., N. Y., secretary treasurer. 
THOSE 8 O'CLOCK CLASSES 
With the Notre Dame Special due back at South Bend at 6:30 a.m., Monday, Nov. 9, the annual "Student Trip" week­end came to a quick ending with a rating of zero—especially with 8 o'clock classes on deck. . . . More than 300 students were attracted Baltimore-way for the Navy tilt. . . . Washington, D. C, was host city. . . . The Scholastic, campus news-weekly, began its 75th year under the editorship of John Anthony Reilly, Dorchester, Mass., Commerce student. . . . Chief aides — Thomas V. Powers, Enid, Okla., managing editor; John Dinges, Downers Grove, III., sports ed­itor; Robert E. Brooks, Akron, Ohio, and Donald Heltzel, Warren, Ohio, news edi­tors; and Elmer Silha, Chicago, HI., ad­vertising manager. . . . The Rev. Charles 

M. Carey, C.S.C, '31, succeeded the Rev. Cornelius La.skowski, C.S.C, '33, as fac­ulty adviser. 
A.B.'S ON TOP—BY MARGIN OF 20 
Enrolhnent for the 1941-42 schoolyear reached 3,197, official records reveal. . . . Arts and Letters remain the chief at­traction for 1,035 students while Dean James E. McCarthy's Commerce School is staging a last-minute rush with 1,015 —just 20 short .. . 563 engineers, 384 science majors, 78 lawyers, and 120 graduate students help fill the quota . . . Little wonderment, then, that Donald Conners, Queens Village, N. Y., Nick Pepelnjak, Virginia, Minn., and Joseph 
Sullivan, Sheffield, 111., received dass cards for "Practical English," taught at Moreau Seminary . . . And Tony Donad­io, the campus' leading song man from Baltimore, Md., reported with three class cards—all three for different classes at 
2:15 the same day . . . Bob Hargrave, Dippy Evans, and Bemie Crimmins. a trio of football greats, tried to register in the Main Building with A.B. men for Commerce school classes—with registra­tion this year, at the Commerce building! 
LAWYERS ENLARGE ACQUAINTANCE LISTS 
Establishing precedent, the Notre Dame Law club is meeting with the South Bend Bar association . . . Pro­vides opportunities for N.D. men to be­come acquainted with experienced law­yers and judges . . . Edward Kelly, Sen­eca, m., is Law president . . . John W. Barry, Van Home, Iowa, Robert Sulli­van, Helena, Mont., and Peter Alonzi, 
Chicago, 111., fill other offices Current dub conversations feature the Ball, a closed "affair carded Nov. 21 at the Er­skine Country club , . . John Ward, Bar­rington, HI., is general chairman. 
TRADITION SHATTERED 
Claim of the Arts and Letters students to scholastic supremacy hit a new low the other day when physical educators Joseph Ragolis, Trenton, N. J., James. Bmtz, Warren, Ohio, and Hercules Ber­eolos, Hammond, Ind., ran one-two-three ahead of Albert Plotkin, South Bend, Ind., in an examination on philosophical principles for Father William Cunning­ham's Secondary Education class . . . Plotkin, an English major, checks in with an average hovering dangerously near 95 . . . Varsity football men won a host of friends when they visited recrea­tion rooms of the four freshman halls, Breen-PhiUips, Zahm, Cavanaugh and Brownson, at the beginning of the school­year—a novel plan introduced by Coach Frank Leahy . . . Capt. Paul Lillis, Steve Juzwik, Dippy Evans, Harry 

Wright and company led the impromptu bantering. 
JOY, MORE WAYS THAN ONE 
Seniors and jimiors vied with sopho­mores for the honor of having major representation at the annual Sophomore Cotillion Oct. 24 . . . James O'Dea, Lo­well, Mass., general chairmaned the suc­cessful, affair which featured Jimmy Joy and his orchestra, late of the MBS Dance Parade and Chicago's Bismarck Hotel . . . For the first time in their careers. 
of the stadium at the Elinois-Notre Dame game, and followed up with at­tendance at the Victory Dance Saturday night.. . Joy, and Joys—^gone, but what pleasant memories. 
REIDY NO. 1 IC-C. OFFICER 
Edward Reidy, Lorain, Ohio," senior, launched the campus council No. 1477, Knights of Columbus — largest college conndl in the nation — off to an auspi­cious start, as grand knight . . . Mem­bership goal—^150 .. . Class of '45 turned out en masse for the K.-C. Frosh Frolic Oct. 15 .'. . Joe McArdle, varsity line mentor,, introduced members and cap­tains of all sports . . . Jack Molly's Cavaliers ddighted the audience with a paralld presentation of sweet and swingy musical numbers in between in­troductions and announcements by lo­quacious Tom Teamey, lecturer from Chicago . . . Those disciples of sophisti­cated syncopation, the two-piano team of Joe Savord, Sandusky, Ohio, and Bill Mooney, Waverly, Iowa, captured top admiration while James McDonough, Chicago, and Notre Dame's choice for the Fred Allen program, gave his inter­pretation of Knute Rockne which he dis­played so wdl that night in New York for a national audience. 
BROWNSON HOUSES FROSH AGAIN 
Brownson hall, traditional builder of champions under the Golden Dome, again houses freshmen—after a leave of absence in the realms of sophomores and upperclassmen for a year . . . Brother Patrick Cain, C.S.C, remains rector . . . Last year Brother Justin Dwyer, C.S.C, was head man of the frosh dormitory at Carroll hall . . . Tommy Owen, white-haired, whistling headwaiter of the Uni­versity dining halls, began his 15th year at Notre Dame . . . And seniors and juniors have begun posing for Dome pictures. 
OPEN YEAR WITH MISSIONS 
Father Joseph E. Hart, C.S.C, mem­ber of the Notre Dame Mission Band and a familiar figure at the campus Lay­men's Retreats, conducted the Freshman-Sophomore Mission late in September .. . The following week. Father P. H. Do­lan, pastor of St. Patrick's church. South Bend, was the speaker for Juniors and Seniors. 
FRUIT COCKTAILS— ir S FOUNDER'S DAY 

At least 1,000 students took advantage of an extra-long week-end on Oct. 11-12­
(Continued on page 27) 

ALUMNI CLUBS 
CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) WB . J. Caiun. '35, 11 RoMMOnt Are., Al­bany. Pica.; Jamc* J. Dridaae, ex. "SS, T5C Hadiion ATC , Albanr, Sec. 
Bin Branican, '38, tvas admitted to the bar by the New York State Supreme Court, Appellate Division, Third Department, on Sept. 22. This was three days in advance of regular admissions, and was made possible by a special order of the Appellate Division due to the fact that Bill was due in Washington, D. C, Sept 23, where he is a member of the P.B.I. Then on Sept. 27, in St. Peter's Church in Washington, D. C, Bill was married to Lois Madeline Hallenbeck, also of Albany, N. Y. 
On Oct 11, Larry O'Neill was married to Myr­tle Spencer in St. Patrick's Church, Albany. Dan Cnnha. Siena College's new basketball coach, was Larry's best man. 
Notre Dame is well represented in Albany area athletics as Joe O'Kane is still at Catholic Central in Troy. Lariy O'Neill is assistant ath­letic director at Philip Schuyler High School. Al­bany, whose team is a contender for the area championship, having defeated Vincentian In­stitute's team, 12-0, in a Columbus Day game. Chuck Riffle, now in his second year at Vincen­tian Institute, is doing a iine job. 
Jack Brennan, who attended Notre Dame for the Echoolyear 1936-1937, was a member of the 
U. S. Army air corps but is now employed by Fan-American Airways, and we understand that he is in Africa ferrying bombers on the last leg of their route from South Africa to the British forces in the Near East. 
James Drislane 
CENTRAL OHIO Loais C. Harphy, '33, 2357 Livingston Ave., Colnmbiis, Prcs.; Daniel F. Cannon, '30, 8 East Broad St, Columbus, Sec 
We had a joint luncheon with the University of Michigan alumni at the University Club, Oct. 
13. There were about 50 present Our guest speak­er was Dr. J. W. Wilce, former head coach at Ohio State University and fullback for the Uni­versity of Wisconsin. He spoke very highly of Coach Stohldreher. 
Charlie Bntterworth was playing at the Hart­man theater, and his old pal and roommate, Harry Nester, invited him to this luncheon, but he had a very important rehearsal. Charlie sent his best regards to the club through Harry. 
Our luncheons in general have met with great success. New faces appear each Monday; for ex­ample; at this luncheon on Oct. 13, the following were present; Ted Kramer, John Fontana, Jack Geddes, Dr. J. J. Bnghes, Harry P. Nester, Joe 
E. Ryan, Thomas J. Sheehan, Jeny Besancenay, Jack Cannon, Dan Cannon, Bud Murphy, Ray Eichenlanb, Dr. J. M. Dunn, Dan M. Hamilton, E. 
G. Cantwell, and Dan Haverick. Also present was our good friend, Jim Shocknessy, who heads the law firm of Shocknessy. Denton & Chamblin, Huntington Bank Bldg., Columbus. 
We have our regular luncheons on Monday ' noons at the University Club located at 40 South Third Street, Columbus. 
^ Jack Cannon is running a special from Colnm­bos to South Bend for the Southern California 

The 1940 - 1941 Alumni Board 
Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., 11, DJ)., New York City . -Honorary PresidMnt Harry F. Kelly, 17, Detroit and Lansing, Mich. Frederick T. Mahaffey, '17, bidianapoHs, Ind. First ytee-PreMmt Alfonso A. Scott, '22, Los Angeles, Calif. ^eonUL Viee-Prendaa James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame, Ind. Seeretaty-Treowrer William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Ind. Assistant Seeretarjf Edward F. O'Toole, '25, Chicago, HL tor to 19i» John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, Mich. JHreetor to 19iS William J. Mooney, Jr., '15, Indianapolis, Ind. , JHreetor to 19U Rev. Michael L. Moriarty, '10, Mentor, Ohio _ Direetor to 19*5 
Ray J. Eichenlaub, '15, Columbus, Ohio 
game; the price ($12.50) includes transportation to and from the game and reserred seat Dan F. Cannaa 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY Ladd Lokats, 150 Kearny Ave.. Perth Ait­boy, N. J., Pres.; Sam Gio, Sec 
Our new officers consist of Ladd Lakats, presi­dent; Anthony Gwffre, vice president; Michael Balog, treasurer, and Sam Gioe, secretary. Meet­ings are held the iirst Tuesday of every month at Gadek's Hotel in Berth Amboy, N. J., and the boys look forward to these confabs. At our last meeting Tony Ceres showed some exceptionally fine pictures of the school campus which were taken during the lost Commencement 
Not to let the summer month slip by without having an outing of some sort the N.D. boys were host to the Ohio University alumni in this area at an outing held at Metuchen, N. J. There games and field events of all types, the special events being a trip of war battle between John Reager and Ladd Lnkats, the two heavywei^ts in the club. Reager won by a shade. Lukats wanted a return mach as soon as possible 
Dr. William Gadek has been appointed city physician in Perth Amboy, N. J. Ladd Lnkata has been re-named as dean of the Middlesex County Junior College. Sam Gioe is the recreation director in Woodbridge Township, B. W. Barrias­ton is president of the Board of Education in Carteret N. J. 
Dr. Edward Yorke has affiliated himself with the Prudential Life Insurance Co. in Newark, 
N. J. Gill Augustine is now operating an Italian restaurant as a sideline. Dr. E. A. Haaher is prescribing pills to his patients in Soyreville, 
N.J. John E. Lisicki 
CINCINNATI Joseph P. Kinneary, '28,1717 Femwoad Ave, Pros.; Frank L Broeman. ex. '35. SMS MU­dleton Ave, Sec 
The club, at its first fall dinner meeting at the Kemper Lane Hotel. Oct 7, formulated plans ­for a trip to the Notre Dame-Northwestem game. Frank Sweeney is chairman of the committee in charge of arrangements for the trip, which is to be made by private railroad car. A committee composed of Jack Brodhecker, Bob Haghcs, Bab Leonard, and Walt Nienaher is making plans for the annual Christmas dance. 

Zx-Offieio Direetor to 194M 
Among those members welcomed back to Gn­dnnatl after a Ions absence were Batta Ciawkr,: our well-known sports oSidaL and Dwi^rt Bnc> 
•laa. who has left the DeSoto dinaon of tha Chrysler Corporation to become DeSoto distiibo­tor in the Cindnnati territory. Othcia preantt at the meeting were Aady Bartan, Ba« Baakaavk Frank Bncaua. Al CastdEiii. Bab Hashes, Lanr Janasen, Jae and BUI Khmeaiy. Bab Lcaaaid. Walt Nienabcr, Didc Shieb. and Frank SwacMT-
Frank Braeaua 
CLEVELAND Jaiea* G. BcMr. I*. IHM Detiait Am. Lakewaad, O. Pna.; tibau* D. Biitm, ex. 15. 2*U N. Maidairf Bbd.. Sec 
The biggest thing zeeently was oar hmcheon ­for Charlie Battenrarth. who had the world pre­mier of his latest show, "Father's Day," at the local Hanna Theater. The toastmaster was John Marphy and his supporting east in ad£ti<ra to Bntterworth, were Dsa Mlkr and Jack ftrnn, plus President Jeny Beidy. who presented the guest of honor with a "much needed" wrist watch. Everyone who attended got at lesst 50 KOSL laughs out of Charlie's tallc And we had an in­spiring turn-out of members. 
A vital statistic whidi we overlooked last issoe is the arrival of a son for Doctor Fraads Ganaaa It Co., on Aug. 31. 
Some red hot vital statistics for this month are the marriages of Pets Sbeebaa. Tea Kinl. and Bab GaDaway. 
Then we have the What Are They Dtuns De­partment—^Dan DaVy is with DoPont at Waynea­bunc. . . Johnny Powers is with the F3 X work­ing out of the Cleveland office . . . Jabny Dayle has been home from camp for a few daya . . . his brother, Benia is working at the Ra­venna Arsenal .. . Jiauay Daaham ia one of the most sleepless members. He is working nl^t s at Cleveland Graphite Bronze and spenda hla days at the airport dwng some Sying. Kalfk Haller of the famous 107th was home from Caii9 Forrest . . . Gearse Bcsdi is trying to get into the Naval Reserve, flying, of coarse, . . . Alt Caicy is still in Washington with the F3 X .. . Brother Ed Carey is building a new house ini Rocky River. He hopes to be all moved in and-ready' when Santa arrives .. . It is rumored that Gene Llac is taking a job in Hollywaod. This will get him out there with oar other oU mna^ bers, Laaie Hiaby and Ckre Caicy. Taa MiriH. 
•aa and Bab Mstiliaty have' been diosen eo­diairmen for the Christmas Dance, whidi means that Christmas must be nearer than we think. It isn't definitely set, but the date vnll probably be Saturday, Dec 27. The place isn't set yet either but it will probably be in the Statler. 
Wie hate to brins a sad note in risht after the build-up for such a nice thins: as a Qiristmas Dance, but we must tell you that your secretary is now in the process of performing his last duty for the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. Jim Byrne is to be your new correspondent. In view of the fact that Jim is on the editorial staf? of "The News" this corresponding job should be bandied in a very efficient manner. "We reRxet leaving Cleveland but we have heard that there is some gold left in California—so off to Califor­nia we go. Best of luck to the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland and all its members. 
Bud Raddatz 
DES MOINES 
Len Lalley reports that Lieut. Ed Clark, V. S. 
ML C , is now stationed at the Marine Base at 
San Diego, Calif.; Jack Sasrgaa is in the Army 
air service; e^iact whereabouts unknown. Bob 
Saggaa is in the Navy air service. 
Dick Hosteny of Chicago was married in Des Moines sometime during the later part of Sep­tember, . 
Lee Kramer arid I, the club's bachelors, both being safe from the Army for the time being 1^ reason of age, still get in our handball games quite regularly. About the first of August I was placed in charge of the general accounting section of the department of social welfare. 
My brother, Tom, ex. '43, is with the Illinois Bell Telephone Co., in Chicago, and taking some evening work at Northwestern, 
William R. Robison 
GREATER LOUISVILLE (Kentucky) Loois J. HoHenbach, Jr., ex. 37, Glencoe DistiUciy, LonisviUe. Pres.; Charles G. MOP-row, '38, 2418 Valetta Road. LonisviUe, Sec 
The Club's Bowling League got under way in September, with four five-man teams participat­ing. The season will be a full one, from Septem­ber to April, -winding up -with singles and doubles tournaments, and a stag partj'. 
Bill Hosier and John Bannon are in charge of the league. The teams are named after campus residence halls, and after five weeks, the Brown-son team, captained by Carl Ratfcrman, with Harry Angermier, Al Saldi, Walt Eenncy. Shel­ley Bannon, and Charlie Morrow as members, is well cut in front. 
The club is planning, under Joe Donaldson, a stag party to the Southern California game. Plans at present call for an overnight stop in Indianapolis. The trip will be made by char­tered bus. and participants will not be restricted to club members, although members will get pref­erence. 
Charles G. Morrow 
INDIANAPOLIS Joseph H. ATVUS. '35, R.R. 14, Box 70-E, Pres.; William H. Konop, '28, 240 N. Meri­dian St, Sec 

The club entertained Notre Dame lawyers at­tending the annual meeting of the American Bar Association with a dinner at the Indianapolis Athletic Club on the night of Oct. 1. Details of the affair will be found elsewhere in this issue. 
The club is planning a buffet supper for Nov. 4, and preparations are under way for the spe­cial train which will take Notre Dame followers to the Southern California game on Nov. 22. Profits from this undertaking go into the schol­arship fund of the club. 
Bill Konop 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
MINNESOTA Gerald McKay. '30, 5512 lif t Ave^ Su. WB ­neapolii, Pres.; Robert BC. T^eder. ex. IC* 7 S. Ctii SL, Minneapolis. Sec 
Frank Mayer and George McDennott of St. Paul, along with Jack Doyle, Jade Telland. Ger­ald McKay and Tom Lee of Minneapolis, met re­cently and discussed proposed plans and arrange­ments for the annual Christmas formal. Jae Sdiroeder has accepted the appointment as gen­eral chairman. Our annual Notre Dame Formal, or Christmas Ball, is one of the finest sodal events of the winter season in the Tvnn Cities. It will be held this year at Hotel Radisson in Minneapolis on Saturday evening, Dec 27. All alumni and friends of Notre Dame who will be in this vicinity at that time are cordially invited tu attend. It is a "must" item on the social cal­endar of every Notre Dame man. 
The local Minneapolis office of the Knights of Columbus at 7 South 6th Street, fourth floor, has a state-wide Notre Dame club roster at the desk for anyone from out of to%vn to consult. 
Your scribe knows tfiat Bob SolUvan is seri­ous and all that, but not to the extent of having joined the ranks of the benedicts as yet. A thou­sand pardons for mentioning in the last issue that "Mrs. Robert Sullivan" was president of the club's auxiliary. Hiat honor belongs to energetic and popular Mrs. Arthur K. SnlUvan, of 1889 Juliet Street in St, Paul. 
Another former Notre Dame man in the ser­
vice Friends can contact A.C. I«o E. Manren, 
ex. '38. at Air Corps Training Detachment, Kck's 
Field. Fort Worth, Texas. 
Bob Tegeder 
NEW YORK CITY Warren S. fV>ffeI. '30, 12 E. 41st St , Pres.; Timothy J. Toomey. *30. Royal Indemnitr Co., 150 Williams St. (Claims Dept) Sec 
"When the next issue of the "Alumnus" appears three events sponsored by the New York Clnb, Scholarship Fund Drive, the Fourth Annual Re­union and Rally, and the Navy Trip to Baltimore will have been rip-roaring successes. The club is grateful to the University and the Alumni Office for all the coopsration that it has received in conjunction with these affairs. 
Johnny Bnms, '31. was awarded two tickets by the Scholarship Fund Committee for making by OcL 1. the greatest number of returns on the books. Johnny is always able to dispose of nearly 40 books. Harvey Daly. *28, was runner-up to Burns. Ifcrvey has also been a very faithful work­er for the drive year after year. Both men merit a well deserved pat-on-the-back. 

The Oct. 2 meeting, presided over by "Prexy Fogel, consisted mainly of a discussion of the work of the Reunion and Rally Committee headed by Dick Donoghue, '30; and the Scholarship Fund Committee guided by Dan O'Ncil. '25. 
Gsorgc Rohrs, '33, hard working treasurer, vis­ited the University the week-end of Sept. 27, where he represented the New York Club in an important alumni discussion. 
On Dec 1, the New York Club takes another very important step in its march of progress when permanent club headquarters will be established at the Hotel Woodstock, at 127 W. 43rd St. New York City. The hotel is managed by Jim Carroll. *31. and has offered the club the best of facilities. These include a modemly furnished office, spa­cious ballroom accommodations and meeting rooms. The national Alumni Association has also furnished some splendid photographs of Rev. Hash O'Donnell. C.S.a. Most Rev. John F. O'Eara. G.S.G., DJ>.. Knate K. Rockne. and Frank Leahy-
Your secretary here will gratefully accept on bdialf of the club any trophies that may be avail­able for their new offices at the Woodstock. 
Oiairman Joseph G. Frid, '29. of the New York 
Club Southern Cal game trip has announced the 
following details concerning the trip. A spe^al 
train will leave the Grand Central Terminal New 
York at 5:20 p.m. Friday, Nov, 21, arriving South 
Bend, 7:52 a.m. Saturday. Returning, train leaves 
Sooth Bend. 3:37 p.m. C.T. Sunday. Nov. 23, 
arriving New York 8:15 a.m., Monday, Nov. 24. 
Subscriptions arc $31.50 per person, including 
$3.30 ticket to the game Address reservations and 
remittances to the Notre Dame Club, Hotel Com­
modore, New York. N. Y. 
Tim Toomey 
(New Club) 
PANAMA—CANAL ZONE 
Lt-CoL B. G. DnBois. called into the Army from his position as professor of French at Notre Dame, sends us news of the organization of a new club, to be known as the Notre Dame Club of Panama and Canal Zone. Notre Dame men of this region were guests at a dinner given by Dr. Gaillermo Patterson, Jr., on Oct 3. at the Union Club, Panama CHty. During the dinner, the club was organized; Dr. Patterson was elected president; William B. Allen, assistant secretary and treasurer; and Colonel DuBois. secretary. Others attending the dinner were Major Ray R. Brady, L t A. Lucius Hubbard. James S. White, 
W. J. Sheridan, Jr.. and Emerson L. Ryan. The club will meet every two weeks. 
Dr. Patterson is the oldest graduate on the Isthmus. He is vice-president of the Canal Zone Bar Association and also judge in the Fifth Cir­cuit Court in Panama. 
Prof. DuBois also writes: "I heard from Fa­ther Welsh [Notre Dame priest on duty as an Army chaplain] who is in a forlorn spot. San Lucia. Have everybody send him a note. I think his address is San Lucia. Trinidad Command. Our chaplain. Father Kelley was over there; that's how I got the news that Father Welsh is dead lonesome." 
PEORIA Alexander L. Sloan, '37. 233 N. Vnderliill, Pres.; E. J. Flanagan, '37, 217 N. Glenwood, Sec 
At the first meeting held since the annual summer picnic, the officers of the club for the coming year were elected. Alex Sloan was named president; Cteorge Preston, vice-president; and Ed Flanagan, secretary-treasurer. 
The annual football ticket activity, which this year is to be on tickets for the Southern Califor­nia game, was discussed. Regular meetings will be held on the first Thursday of every month and informal noonday luncheon gatherings each Wed­nesday, it was decided. 
Jim Kelley, who was a member of this year's football squad until the draft caused him to quit sdiool in favor of a pilot's training course in the Navy, gave us a few of his impressions of this year's football outcome. 
We've lost a few other members besides Jim to Uncle Sam. AI Grimm is stationed in Califor­nia; Chariie Mayes is taking a naval course at Penn State; John Hicenbothem has joined the Air Corps at Chanute Field. 
There were approximately 25 for dinner in­cluding the guest speaker. W. B. Pringle, who related some of his more interesting experiences in French North- Africa while travelling there for Caterpillar Tractor Company. Movies were also shown for the entertainment of "fhe group. 
•AI Gnry was appointed to take charge of a projected "Football Special" to South Bend for the Southern California game. 
E. J. Flanagan 

PHILADELPHIA Adrian J. Wackeciun, '35, 5S5S Chew St , Praa.; CUffsid E. Praddd. "32, 6070 Ckotcr Are., Sec 
Best informed on things appertaining to NJD. from these parts are Joe Wackennan, Harold Dake, Frank Shapiro, and our "ringer" from Hartisburg (that perpetoal district governor) Joe FarrelL They attended the recent gathering of aiumni club groups on the campus. 
Josh D'Amora went and did it, so maybe now he won't have an excuse for wearing a sweater with holes. 
A note recently to the effect that Harold Beck is a captain in the Division of Industrial Pro­duction under the chief of ordnance in Washing­ton. Our scout has it that Pcrc Connelly is doing ^endidly on the West Coast. 
The University's loss in the transfer of Dean Jackwn to the Frankford Arsenal here is a for­tunate thing for us. We welcome him to Phila­delphia. Another latch key is always out for Macready Huston who could do a book on Notre Dame. Jimmy Cullather has taken a teaching post in the School of Commerce at St. Bona­venture College. 
Sorry we missed Pat Hanion on his hurried visit here. The same goes for Bishop O'Hata who jumps into the Navy Yard and out of town quicker than you can say William A. A. Castel­linL 
Dan "Zannuck" Young has had 27.494 miles of film to wade through before completing his epic on dry dock construction. Dan was lauded by both Philadelphia and New York papers for completing the dock far ahead of schedule. 
(Fred Appleby) Hayes is conducting a trip to the Southern Cal game. Jack Reilly and your scribe are saving up to buy a rowing machine and brother we need it! See you in the waist line. 
S.O.S.—Mickey Dendlcr. Ed Butler, Ray Brod­erick, and Bill Bodo! Cliff Prodclil 
ST. LOUIS 
Dr. L. Vincent Gorrilla, '21. 311S S. Grand Blvd., Pres.; Dr. Bernard P. Crowley. '28, 1139 Bcllevae Ave, Sec 

The Scholarship Fund campaign goes on stead­ily, working toward our goal of SI.000. We are offering two "All-Expense Football Trips" to the winners, the first to Northwestern and the sec­ond to the Southern Cal battle. 
We had a' pep meeting to promote' the fund raising campaign, on Oct. 15 at the University Club. A partial report was made and we all took home refills. The grand drawing is to be held Nov. 12. 
The club is planning another Trophy Dinner for the outstanding high school football team in the greater St. Louis area this fall. Last year Soldan Public High School took the cup. The dinner will likely be held sometime in December and we. are already working on the program. Hope to have several outstanding figures on the scene for the boys. 
Hoch 

TUCSON, ARIZONA 
Ted A. Witz. ex. '29. Box 628. Pres.; Paul 
Dufaud. '26, 1911 E. 2nd St., Sec. 

Our usually quiet summer around the Old Pueblo has brought several changes among our few members. 
The club's recently resigned prexy, Vin Hcnges­bacfa, has been promoted to assistant manager with a local lumber company. Vin is a haxy man these days, as this summer he was also deciad president of the local Ijons Club. 
Ted Witz, our new president, had the kind of a summer vacation that we all read about. In short, he saw the mountains on the way north, with stoiM>vers at Denver and Sun Valley, then took in the national parks on the way back along the coast. Not quite travel-weary, Ted returned to Notre Dame for the Arizona opener. Now he can get down to business, as he recently became asso­ciated ih a men's tailoring shop. 
Business has been unusually good for Steve Rebel] this summer. He was forced to acquire more space-for his household appliance store, and had to make two buying trips to the coast for additional merchandise. 
Tom Blair, who was a "minim" for a number of years before he .entered the University, is a local salesman for one of our large oil companies. Tom claims that business has been tops. 
Jim BInrphy, one of our few local boys, was admitted to the bar several weeks ago, and is al­ready a practicing attorney with a brilliant fu-. ture. For your legal directory his new address is Valley National Bank Bldg., Tucson. 
Steve Bielli was in town recently on business from Phoenix. Steve has as much pep as he for­merly displayed on the gridiron. 
We hear that there are several N.D. men in the vicinity. We would be glad to meet them and 
. become acquainted. You who are planning a win­ter vacation in this valley of King Sunshine bear this in mind. '' Les Raddatz 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Bernard E. Loshbongfa. '29, 5610 Colorad* Ave., N.W., Pres.; Wm. C. Karl, '31, 2US "F" St, N.W.. Sec 

The first monthly meeting of the 1941-42 sea­son was held at the Ambassador Hotel, Oct 6. Election of officers for the coming year was held, with the following results: Bcmie Loahbaoich. '29. president; Bemie Swanser, '40, first vice-president; Dcnnie Dineen, '39, second vice-presi­dent; Bill Karl, '31. secretary; Ray Deely, '36, treasurer; B. J. Fecney, '39, sergeant-at-arms; and Rev. R. H. Sweeney, C.S.C.. '30. chaplain. Plans were discussed for a rally to be held the 
, night before the Naw game 
Meetings of the club will be held on the first Monday of every month at the Ambassador Hotel. It is hoped that the many alumni who have been drawn to Washington by the defense program will attend the meetings this year. 
BiU KarL 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Hugh C Boyle, '24, Law and Finanee Bids.. Pittsburgh, Pres.; John F. Paidii^ Jr„ 'M, Room 104, Coorthonse, FlttibaiKfa. Sec 

Ed Hallaaer reports that Charles Rihn of Ali­quippa is now with the Duquesne Foundry Branch of the Continental Roll Co. of Coraopolis . . . T. 
C. Kelly was a Westinghouse representative at the steel convention in Cleveland in September. . . . The club's congratulations to Lany Smith of East Liverpool, Ohio, for his having passed the Ohio bar exams this July—and with a high average. . . . It's even more an accomplishment when one considers that Larry commuted to Pittsburgh where he got bis LL.B. at Duquesne University Law School this June. . . . Congrats, also, to the Hugh C. Boyles. whose latest was a girl, to make it four boys and a girl. . , . A . hearty welcome to Walter Kristoff and Dan Mc­Carthy, both 1941 grads and newcomers to our district. . . . Walt is an electrical tester at the Bu t Pitdnrgh works of the Westinshoiise : trie, wbeia ha is engaged in a itaJent traiainK eoonc . . . Dan is in the Linhart -woika of tha Westin^onae, amfbdnx his metaHnzdeal tiaiaiBK in aii eamet ndll. . . . IneidentallT. Walt ia lidp-. ins to coach the East Pltsbiirgh HI^ Sdioal gridders. .. . 
Hany Waadi ilj has given np his leseardi' mA at the Childro's Hospital and ia now devatinx full time to his medical studies. .. . Daa Ibitia is now with the Belianoe Life Insnianee Com­pany whose offices are in tlie Fanneia Bank Building. . . . Lanr 01>aaael|, who heeanw a member of the U. S. Army last April, is sow a corporal at Camp Diz, N. J. . . . T. G. Ibtihy. chief demist of the Franklin Cteek Refining Co. Oil CSty, has been made vice-chairman of tha Pittsburgh section of tlie Sodetr of Antomotive Engineers. .. . Bill Siziauth reports that Heraua Green of New Castle is now with the Vietoir Engineeiuig Company .. . that Toai Gaircy of Sharon is now with the GBmeine.IlIinois Sted Company. Pittsburgh. .. . 
We were glad to see Bemie Caniay of New Kensington in for a Thursday hmdicon during October. The Oannors are building a new home and expect to move in soon. . . . Jahnny OTBrica of Swissvale is now taldng Business' Administra­tion at' Harvard. .. . Our sincere sympathy to the family of Dr. Joseph Lafferty of McKee^s Rocks, who died October 13. . . . Jsetpfc A. Laf­ferty, Jr., is a student at NJ). . . . To AI Die­fcoU. whose father-in-law, John Friday, iSed re­cently. .. . 
Beh Wilson of New Kensington is managing a restaurant at the Aluminum Company of Amer­ica, located in that dty. . . . Charles DiOan of Butler, preadent of the '41 class, was in for a Thursday luncheon during September. . . . Con­gratulations to Tom and Ed Skeehan of Baden, both married dnrine October. . . . Nordy Her­mann flies from coast to coast for the Steel Workers' Organizing Committee, whose oSiees are in the Commonwealth Bnilding. .. . On one of his trips he met Stere MUkr, assistant district attorney, in Washington. D. C. . . . We glad to see Ahiinni Secretary JiK come to town for a visit and a hmcheon in September.... 
John F. PaTBdc. Jr. 

Harry Flannery Back From Berlin Assignment 
After nearly a year of foreign radio broadcasting nnder the strictest radio censorship, Harry W. Flannery, '23, re­turned to the United States early in October. Harry was assigned to Berlin in 1940 as a member of the Colnmhia Broadcasting System's foreign news staff. 
While at Notre Dame, he majored in journalism. He became the first editor of the Notre Dame Daily, editor of the Dome,'ajid art editor of 1iie,Juggler. 
After his graduation-Harry followed newspaper work with the Baltimore Sun, Albany Evening News, and a number of other newspapers. 
He obtained his first radio experience as news and sports editor of radio sta­tion WOWO, in Fort Wayne. In 1935 he went to KMOX in St. Louis as' a news' analyst. Here he stayed until his assign­ment in the German capital. 
» »
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Ellen Madeleine Moorhead and Robert E. Gorman, '32, of Evanston, HI. 
IGss Mariorie Dubrul and Richard Shicls, '33, of Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Miss Jean Battara and Kenneth O'Meara, '39, of Lansing, Mich. 
Miss Marie B. Needham and James Hugh Smith, *59, of CanandaifTua, N. T. 
Miss Eay Le Vasseur and Raymond J. Kelly, Ml, of Chicago. 
Miss Jane Howell and Spalding Slevin, Jr., ex. '44, of Toledo, Ohio. 
Marriages 
The marziase of Miss Kathryn Glavin and Joseph Anielm Bailey, *26, took place Oct 11, in Holy Name Cathedral, Chicago. 
Miss Helen Mazza and Vincent J. McGue, '30, 
•were married June 28, in Bed Bank, N. J. 
The marriage of Miss Helen Hegendorfer and John E. McCarthy, '30, took place Sept. 17. in St. Louis Church, Pittsford, N. Y. 
Miss Velda Byars and Edward &I. Spillane, ex. '30, were married Sept, 13, in Holy Souls Church at Fampa, Texas. 
Miss Bemadettc Perez and Paul T. Fehlig, '31, were married Oct. 11. in St. Peter's Church, Erk­-wood. Mo. 
•Rie marriage of Miss Mary Elizabeth Sheridan and Henry Antiiony Grattan, '32. took place July €, in the Lcs Chapel at Notre Dame. 
Miss Dorothy Cecelia Groves and Herbert James Wduien, '32, were married on Sept 6, in the Ix)g Chapel at Notre Dame. 
The marriage of- Miss Bita Heagan McMahon and James Lawrence Bonrfce, '33, took place Sept 20, in S t Ann's Church, Cleveland Heights, Ohio. 
Miss Alma Jane Pierce and Richard N. Hos­teny, '33, were married Sept 27, in S t Augus­tine's Church in Des Moines, la. 
BGss Myrtle Spencer and Lawrence O'Neill, '34, were married Oct 11, in S t Patrick's Church, Albany, N. Y. 
The marriage of Miss Ida Klaeger and John Lawrence HcNemy, '34, took place Sept 27, in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. 
Miss Rose Mary Dmek and Nicholas F. Molnar, 
•34, were married August 30, in S t Ann's Church, Monterey, Ind. 

The marriage of Miss Evelyn R, Shive and Frederick A. McLanchlin, ex. '34, took place Oct . 16, in Qtiincy, HL 
Miss Mary Francis Ryan and William Kennedy, Jr., '34, were married Sept 20, in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss M. Eileen Gallery mnd J(An F. Novak, '35, took place Aug. 16, in S t Thomas' Church, Buffalo, N. Y. 
Miss Adele Muszyk and Charies J. Novak, '35, were married July 21. in S t Hyacinth's Churdi in Lackawanna, N. Y. 
Miss Mary lK>uise Sammartino and Alfred D'Amora. '35, were married Sept 20, at St Margaret's Church, Narberth, Pa. 
The marriage of Miss Mildred G. Brennan and William Lanrence Torrey, *35. took place S^?t 23, in the Church of Our liady of the Sacred Heart Watertown. N. Y. 
Miss Eileen Eldean Bouton and William J. Gilston, '36, were married Aug. 22, 1940, in S t Francis* Church, North Adams, Mass. 
Miss Virginia Voigt and Charles F. Lemons, '37, were married Oct 11. in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Elizabeth Ann Kuhn and Stephen C. Miller. '37, took place Oct 13. in S t Joseph's Church, Rock Island, Bl. 
The marriage of Miss Rosemary Steuber 'and Lnke J. 'Tieman, '37, took place July 19, in Our Lady of Mount Carmel Church. Chicago, HL 
Miss Anne Wall and Arch Gott, '37, were mar­ried Oct 4. 
Miss Ofelia Feo and Alberto Enriaae Castinara^ '37. of Havana, Cuba, were married Jnly 4. 
The marriage of Miss Jane Mercer and Francis 
H. Smith, ex. *38. took place July 19, in EI Segundo, Calif. 
Miss Mary Austin Brockenhrough and Charies Morrison, '38, were married Oct 11, in the Sacred Heart Cathedral, in Richmond, Va. 
The marriage of Miss Lois Hallenback and William Branigan, '38, took place Sept 23, in Albany. N. Y. 
Miss Mary Catherine Sexton and Frank Delaney, Jr., '38. were married Sept 13, in Sts. Peter and Paul Cathedral, Burlington, Xa. 
The marriage of Miss Josephine McCreary and Thomas BL Rini, Jr., '38, took place Oct 4, In S t Nicholas Church, Columbus, Ohio. 
Miss Mary Eileen Haskins and Bernard T* Mnrdock, '38. were married Oct 11, in S t Vincent De Paul Church. Elkhart Ind. 
Miss Kathryn E. Clifford and Charles W. Eph­grave, '39, were married April 19, in the Loff Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Betty Weisbroad and Roland A. Martin* '39. were married Sept 29, in the Log Chapd at Notre Dame. 
Miss Gladys Rejer and Richard A. Ganser. '39, were married Sept 20, in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. 
T^e marriage of Miss Barbara Owens Boomer and William P. Castleman. Jr.. '39. took n1*ce Oct 4, in Louisville, Ky, 
Miss Marion Katherine Smith and William A. Donnelly. '39, were married Oct 11, in Queens Village. N.Y. 
Miss Fanchon Thais Mallenhcrg and John P. Donndly, '39. were married Sept 25, in S t Jos­eph's Church. South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Geraldine McDermott and Anthony F. Gentle. '40, took place Sept 13, in Sacred Heart Churdi, Waterloo, la. 
Miss Marvel Christine Arentson and David F. Hyde, '40. were married Oct 2, in La Crosse. Wis. 
Hie marriage of Miss Jane Small and Mario Pieroni, '40, took place Oct 21, in S t Lawrence Church, Muncie, Ind. Both the bride and bride­groom are blind. 
IGss Olga Wozniak and Joseph T. PawlowskI, '41. were married Sept 27, in S t Hedwige's Church. South Bend. 
Tlie marriage of Miss Maria Jane Haven and Ensign Edward B. Henslee, Jr., '41, took place Sept 15, in S t Paul's Church, Flint, Mich. 
Miss Irene Lichnerowicz and Vincent E. Shirf, '41,. were married Sept 27, in S t Stanislaus Church, South Bend. 
"Hie marriage of Miss Jane Courtney and Roh­ert H- Bisdraff, '41, took place Aug. 30, at Bellarmine Chapel, Cincinnati. 
ICss Suzanne Marshon Wirt and Hawley Ewinff Van Swan, *41, were married Oct 3, in the rec­tory of S t Patrick's Church. South Bend. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. Matthew Rothert, '24, announce the birth of a son, Matthew Herman, on Oct 6, in Camden, Ark. 
Mr. and Mrs. Martin H. Brennan, '23, announce the birth of a son, Thomas Ryan, on Sept. S, in Baffalo, N. Y. 
Mr. and Mrs. HnEfa C Boyle, '24, announce the birth of a daughter, Mary Ann, on Oct. 1, in Pittsburgh. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. WiHard F. Brien. ex, '29, on Oct. 13, in South Bend. 
A son, Gerald Walter, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Walter J. Scholand, '30, on June 26, in Bochester. N. Y. 
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond B. Tonnr. '30, an­nounce the birth of a son, John Scott, on Sept. 7, in Hammond, Ind. 
A son was Iwm to Mr. and Mrs. Joseph P. Bappe, '30, on Oct. 14, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Reedy, '30, announce the birth of a daughter, Joellen, on Oct. 4, in Kamsas City, Kans. 
A son 'Vniliam Charles, Jr., was bom to Mr. and Mrs. William C. Blind, on Oct. 10, in New York City. 
A daughter, Marybeth, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Clyde A. Roberts, Jr., '34, on Sept 30, in Sandosky, Ohio. 
A daughter, Jo Ann Harriet, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. James HcATeney, on Oct. 4, in New York City. 

Hr. and Mrs. Daniel Touncennan, '35, announce the birth of a son on Sept. 30, in South Bend: 
A daughter, Loretta Ann, was bom to Ur. and Mrs. Tom (Kitty) Gorman, '37, on Sept. 16, in Omaha. . 
Hr. and Mrs. Donald Hennessr, '37, announce the birth of a danshter on Oct. 2, in South Bend. 
A son, James Brian, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. 
J. Paul Sheedy, '37, on Oct. 8, in Buffalo, N. Y. 
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Baker, '37, announce the birth of a daughter, in October, in New Ycrlc City. 
A son was bom to Mr..and Mrs. Hoy Klecka. ex. '38, on Sept. 13, in South Bend. 
Deaths 
Frank P. McGinn. '89, formerly a Chicago law­yer, is dead, according to a postoffice notification. 
•nie "Religious Bulletin" carried the sad news of the death on Sept. 19, of KCT. SUnisIans Woy­wood, O.S.F., '23, of Holy Name Cbllege, Wash­ington, D.G. 
Thomas G. Parker. 1926-'27, died Oct. 6, in Sterline, III., after a long illness resulting from an operation he underwent five years ago. Tom was a western salesman for the Wahl Clipper Co., Tmtil he was forced to take a leave of absence this September because of failing health. 
Surviving are his widow, his mother and one sister. 
Thomas William Hayden. ex. '29, is dead, ac­cording to news reaching the office in October. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to Rev. Cornelius Hagerty, C.S.C., '06, upon the death of his sister, Sr. Cecile Platrice, C.S.G.; Ray J. D. Ashbach. ex. '08, upon the death of his wife; Aaron Hognenard, '22, upon the death of his wife; Brother Vincent, C.S.C., '24, upon the death of his mother; George Head, '27. upon the death of his father: Charles, '34, and John, '38, DiHatteo, upon the death of their mother; George Foxen, '34, upon the death of his father; Bert Baor, '36, upon the death of his father; Alfred A. SniadowsU, '37, upon the death of his sister; and Fred Haw. '39, upon the death of his father. 
Personals 
p. E. Baike, '88. 101 Before 1890 Camp, Orlcaiu. 
 New 
La. 

Rer. J. A. HacNamaia, 'ST, 1890-99 St. JoMph's Mineral Baths. Mount Clemens, Hidiigan. 
Robert E. Proctor. '04, Monger 1900-04 Building, Elkhart, Ind. 
Rev. Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C, 
'•7. Notre Dame. Ind. 

1905-09 
Leonard Smith, of LaPorte, Ind., wrote recently. He is working with the architects and engineers, helping build the Kingsbury Ordnance Plant. He sends us news of his son Francis Smith, which we are including in the '38 news. 
IOI n ''"-^ ^ HorUrty. St. Haiy'a I 7 I U Onrcfa. Mentor. Ohio. 
 Fied Steers. ItU Tint NatiMd :

ml 
I Bids.. Odeac*. BL 

B. J. Kaiser. 324 FoMrtli St . PlMi­1912 bargli,pB. 
Pmol R. Bjrrne, UniTCrsitr LikniT* 
Notre Dsme. Ind. 

1913 
James McDevitt, chief county eneineer of Cleve­land» is slated to manage Judge fVank J. Lausche's mayoralty campaigm. Jim is vice-chair­man of the Democratic County organization, and has been active in Cleveland politics. 
Frank H. Hayei, (42 lUid An.. 
ChoU Vista. Calif. 

1914 
James E. Sanfoid. 5M1 Hacnolia AT*.. 1915 Chicago, m. 
Jim Sanford wrote in during the summer in­quiring about the critical illness of Father Kcindt. Healy. We are happy to answer that Father Healy has now recovered. Jim has moved to 5341 Mag­nolia Ave., Chicago. 
1916 
Grover Miner. 610 Wisconsin AT*.. Radne* Wis. 
From Graver Miller: 
Since our wonderful 25th anniversary reunion last June* many of the boys have been correspond­ing and it looks as though there vrili be a lot of hand shaking amongst the class of 1916 at the football games this fall. Plans are under way . now to decide on a game for next fall at Notre Dame and then reserve a block of tickets; class mates and their families can then sit. together for the game and enjoy a nice reunion afterwards. 
An active committee is now working on plans for another reunion next June. This will be our 26th year, but we will attempt to consolidate our plans with the class of 1917, who will be cdebrat­ing their real 25th anniversary. Since the Uni­versity will be^n to celebrate their 100th Anni­versary, there should be lots doing. Any sugges­tions from the class of '16 should be forwarded to me at once as we are anxious to make this next year very active. 
 J. Von. 206 E. Tntt St.. SM A 
Bend. Ind. 

1917 B. 
From Bcmie YoU: 
Harry Kelly. Fred Maha£Fey and myself repre­sented the class of '17 in an alumni meeting held the afternoon of the third of October. 
My primary interest was to urge upon the members of the Class of '17 our reunion in June. Harry KcUy said that he remembered we had one in 1937 and hoped we could equal it next year, 
% 

Fred MahaCFey advises that Scotty is already in training for the reunion and that he and Scotty and Bin Hooney will lead the contingent from Indianapolis. 
Take notice ye other entertainers: Paul Fogarty. Doke Riley. Howard Parker. 
From Danny Hilgartner to Bemie VoU: 
**I was delighted to hear that you are now our class secretary and send yon hear^ congratula­tions and assurances of co-operation. I hope that some of our indolent classmates are conscience stricken by this time and will give you better support than they did Eddie McOsker. A coarse In logic is not necessary to realize that if we do not dish up the news for you, our class notes wiU continue to be a blank. 
"And now oar 26tti nui^on is ecmdns. ^ &i . June. Wdl, ^fkin y out of torn £ar ttii' v»^' fbnned joumalista in GUeago^ 1 am aozv Vmawtr* a prodoetr for WGN. BOi ¥••—< 
Tm a : 

fanutnze man. and Ms SacUsr* tlw parias tractor, win ba on Iiand. and no doubt joa win bear direct from tbeas. Anstia McNidMfc and Jae Flynn. the lawyer, both now sQcoeaafbl iiian* ance men, and Bai Giakaai, the ardiiteet^ I a a sure too will be with na. At for njadl^ how could 1 miss; with a son in Sorin, who is--ai9« poaed to gradnate in Jane." 
Ml 1918 Drive; 
Piaf. Tea Ea c has been made head of th* courses in police administration at ICdiisan State CoHescv Tj.irf..y 
Baler. (M PitRa St, Gair. 

1919 
Chkk Bader is the new president of the Gai7 (Ind.) Chamber of Cknnmeree. 
' Aacdc*. CaBf. 
Dan W. DaCr. UM Tenaiul T» 
GlaTelaB4.0U» 

1921 
From Kd Aihe: 
Daa TawMt. of Drydoek Associates, who a n conztmeting dry docks at the League Island Navy Yard in Fhiladdplua, recently paid a suipriaa visit on Dmtmy Cafcaae, program director at National Catholic Oimmunity Service, Inc. USO affiliate, in headiiuartera at Washington. D.C. 
Dr. Daaid Sextan and wife, who have recently returned from their lumeymoon trip to Qudiae; are livinr at 5510 Waterman. St. Loma. Enronta to St. Louis, tlte Sextans stopped off at Motra Dame. They report the campus is most impresarre^ 
Clete lovdkand bride, who have been oat oa the West Coast, are expected in Peoria. HL. in late October. 
Still another good prospect is in si^t for th. super 20th Anniversary Celebration of oar elaaa at Commencement next June. FatlMr Geaise Fischer, C.S.C of the Holy Croea Mission Band. North Easton. ICass.. writei that he hopea hia adedule will permit Iiis attendance. Father Geocse in mid4>ctobera was givins a mission in Neponaet, Kass. 
Edwaid Gattry is now affiliated with tha Broolclyn office of the New York State Unanploy ment Bureau, a joint state and federal agency. Paal PfaU is with the sales division of BC& in CMeago. 
It is still a little early to comment on the progress of teams cajaclied by the 1&22 football coaching fraternity. Nevertheless, at this writing Back Shaw's Santa Clara is the only undefeated major team on the West Coast. Edfie ^adiiii. at Iowa and Hany Mdue at Mississippi have done well so far. ^ley may sorprise the fans before.tha season is over. Eari Walsh, as .assistant to Jim Crowley at Foxdliam, is performing excellent serrice, but manages to keep out of the spotlight. 
1923 
Paal a.  Castacr. 1S7 Seoth Ave. New 
Bev. C J. WitKU, ca c has been deetad head of the board of trustees of tlie South Bend Catholic Hi ^ sdool for the year IMl-lMZ. 
1924 
J. P. Hayca. SM 7di Ave.. Beeos ISIS, NcwTeikOty. 
John P. Harler. 2085 Brookdale Boad, 
Toledo. OUo. 
1925 
James A. Bonaxi, 127 N. Dearborn St, 
CIdcasow Ul­
1926 
lics H^ele was at Notre I>ame with the Ari­zona team. Les, who has three daughters now, is sports editor for the "Arizona Republic" in Phoenix. 
1927 JoMph BL Boland. Field Hooie, Pai^ doe Unirersty, West Lafayette, Ind. 
From Joe Boland: 
The piddnss are slim indeed for *27 this month. Saw Pinky Hartin in Pittsburgh when we Boilermakers dropped in on the Pitt Panthers. Pinky is doins very well with Murdoch Chevrolet, and he tells me that Gene Edwards, coachins at S t Vincent's College, Latrobe, Pa., has another bright year in prospect. I had hoped to meet the redoubtable Fritz Wilson, but he must have been showing his men's store customers how to hit that high, hard one. 
Just got a line &om Leo J. "Butch" Herbert, who is city attorney of Rock Island, 111., unless I'm mistaken. I'll gladly stand correction from Butch, and wonder whether be can still do "Kitten on the Kej-s" like he used to in the Carroll Rec 
Sorry there's nothing else to report; let's hope it's because the brethren of '27 are too busy mak­ing that stuff that ain't bay. If they are, we'll have a great turnout for Commencement in June, for the 151h Reunion. Gosh! That doesn't seem possible I 
All the best, m'friends. Hope to have more for you nest time. 
 F. Buckley, 4481 Conduit Rd., 
1928 Lonii 
Washington, D. C. 
From Loa Bockley: 
I had a good session with Bill Daffy at the Washington Notre Dame Club meeting recently. Bill is in private legal practice here in Washing­ton with o£Eices in the Woodward Building. He is married and has two children. 
Last month I forgot to mention that Bob Ham­ilton finally decided to print bis own money in­stead of earning it in Wall St., so he went into the printing business with Bartten Printing Co., 61 CliEE St., New York City, Bob passed along the word that he understands that George Cron­geyer has been absorbed by the U.SA,. 
Before giving you Joe Langton's fine contribu­tion, just a word about our plans for next month. I have asked Pete Gallaglier and John Robinson to be our guest writers for the December issue. I am sure we can depend on them to do a fine job. 
Our master of ceremonies this month, Joe Langton, holds forth at 1111 W. Wilson St, Peoria, HL, where he is trying to keep his in­come tax payments down with his two dau^ters. Holly, age 2, and Susan, age 1. (Speaking of exemptions, be sure to note in Doc Forge's letter that he has seven children. As far as I know this seta a record for the '28 class.) Joe Langton is with Phillips Pfetroleimi, so consequently had some comments to make on 3Ir. Ickes which xnight disturb the printer. He said he is waiting imtiently until.I can send him his social security check. 

-Joe, with his usual i»ersuasive manner, obt^ned letters fnnn nine of our classmates. Thanks to yon, Jo^ and to the fellows who answered your zeuoest for news for an unusually newsy column. I have taken the liberty of editing the letters which Joe sent in order to conserve space, anee I know the Association finances do not permit the use of any more space than is necessary. If I cut out some material which the writers feel should have been included blame me, and not Joe. 
Father Jim HcShane, S.J. has our congratol*­tions and very best wishes on his ordinatJon which is covered in the letters from Vince Wabh and John CarroU. Langton mentioned that BOl Leahy was in Peoiia recently and stopped for m session. Our 2i.C., Joe Langton, gives you the following: 
From Joe Geragfaty, Rochester, N. Y.: 
'*Joe Debott is managing a haberdashery store in Geneva, N. Y., single, and a very elis^ble bachelor. Joe Larsen is sanitary inspector, mar­ried, and lives in Geneva. Jimmy Bany is work­ing a farm outside of Geneva. In order that his evenings may be filled up, he has an ordiestra which plays for old fashioned dances. 
"Charlie Shelanskey, of Glee Club fame, de­serted Geneva for New York City. Ihe last news was that he is working for a construction com­pany, is married, and has three children whidi he sings to sleep each night Jvibn Stewart is working in Washington, D.C., on a large news­paper. He was visiting in Rochester recently. He is married and has three lovely children. 
"Don Cotbett is assistant attorney-general in Rochester, is married, and has two future quar­terbacks for N. D. Joe Haney is practicing law in Newark, N, Y., and doing very welL Gene Scfailtz is also .a resident of Newark and the . owner of a thriving coal business. Gns JenkinB is. living outside of Buffalo, teaching school and coaching football. 
"As for myself, Joe, I am engaged in the brokerage business here in Rochester, and have been here for the last 12 years. I am married and have a girl six years old and a boy 22 months old. Sorry to say I have not been back to school since graduation, but I am hoping I will be able to get out this fall." 
From Monticello, HI., Vince Walsh writes: 
"I am still farming my own farms and man­aging a few others. I married Catherine Ann Delaney, of Beloit, Wis., and we have a fine six-month old son. I see few '28 men. except when traveling, 
"James Mc^iane, S.J., said his first mass in Springfield, HL, on June 22, which I attended. He is back in S t Mary's, Eans.. for one year finishing his studies. James was one of the out­standing contributors in the book "Rural Roads to Security," published in 1940. Hope to see you at some of the games this fall. I am planning on seeing the Northwestern game." 
John Cam ^ writes in from Springfield, IlL: 
"I am still in the highway game, construction superintendent for Sangamon Construction Oo... . bridges, pavements, sewers, and what have yon. I'm married and have a boy and two ^Is . I regret that my contacts with N. D. men have been few. llie local dub could scarcely consider me except as a debit 
"James L. (Charleston) HcSkane was finally ordained as a Jesuit this summer. Father Me-Shane is going on for his Ph.D. in Canon Law before the Jesuits torn him loose on young Catholic manhood. 
"I see Biike Kenny, '30, occadonally; he's diief clerk for E. J. Hughes, secretary of state. The change in administration let quite a few N. D. boys out but I expect this bunch will hnag in enough to even things up." 
. Jack Sheedy. manager of production of the Bdianee life Insurance Company, of Pittsburg, writes: 
"Xy old roommate, Wid Lawkr, left Pittsburs^ some time ago and is now in Port Arthur, Texas, working for the Gulf Oil Company, As you know, Wid was always one of the strong, outdoor men; and he's thri\-ing on the rugged life of the Great West In fact I think he's picked up a bit of •oothem drawl. If the boys from Homewood, Fa., could hear I<awler with a southern drawl, that really would be something. 
"Jslmme MrMahop has been working in Pitts­bur g for quite a long time now and has be­come practically a native Pittsburgher. He severed his connection with newspaper work and is now the executive secretary of the Air Hygiene Foundation located in Mellon Institute. Se tells me the purpose of his organization is the ad­vancement of health in heavy industries through the control of occupational hazards. Johnny has been taking a really active interest in Notre Dame affairs around here and is getting along fine. I see Turk Meinert frequently. He recently joined the happy ranks of the married. He's get­ting to be an oldtimer with the Philadelphia Company here in Pittsburgh and sees to it that our electric lights, gas, and streetcars keep run­ning. 
"I haven't seen Lee Schneider for quite a while but I know that he is doing welL He is a big oil man and as for as I know Lee's the Man of '2S in a family way. He has five children. 
"Fritz Wilson continues with success, in the clothing business here. All well dressed men see Wilson 'the Tailor' for the proper attire. Almost any Notre Dame man who comes to town drops in at Fritz' store for a little chat 
"John HcSoriey is the manager of one of the largest and finest apartments in Pennsylvania. Vrmak Hegarty is a doctor, married, has a nice family, and is now in the Army." 
Bill Dw}er sounds off from Milwaukee: 
"About the only time I see a '28 face in these Iiarts is when I i>erform the morning rites with my trusty Gillette. Being the husband of a Chicago girl who likes to see her old crowd occasionally I frequently pack the family (includ­ing one dandy little daughter) into the bus and drive them down to the Windy City. The only '28 boys Pve seen in Chicago in a year are George Coary and Jim Allan. George has all the earmarks of a man who has arrived and by no means the least of his possessions is a very charming and eye pleasing better half. Jim is using his legal talents in behalf of the Lumber­man's Mutual Insurance Company in Chicago. Jim is the proud papa of a fine little four year old lad who is fully as red headed as the old man. 
"Played golf against Jim last Labor Day week end. Bak Vogelwede, '29, and I stood against Jim and Lany O'Connor, '30, and took them to the cleaners in a friendly fought if not beau­tifully played, exhibition. Put that in the column, Joe. rd appreciate having our victory duly recorded in cold type. 
"As for myself Pve been a Hilwaukeean for more than five years now, after a stretch in Chicago. During all of this period I've been turn­ing out advertising for lane BCaterial Cbmpany. Hard as I worked in. Brother Cyp's classes and on those work sheets out of classes, I've been in advertising nnce that warm day when Fatker WalA handed us the sheepsldn. Hut's the story Joe: wrap it up." 
Oftrik Skckuuker writes from Westhamptori Bench. L. L, N. Y,: 

"For the past seven years I have been under Civil Service with this oatfit (Connty of Suffolk Department of His^way) in dars e of the ac­coontinff departaent. Things vrere not so bri^t durins *32 and *33, bat I finally foond a niche and have' rather firmly in^Ianted myself. Vy Incky year was 1934, for it was then I married a dandy girl from Ijons Island and also began my (^vil Service career. I now have two great boys, one of them six, the other four. Hy con­tacts with Notre Dame men are few, although I am only 100 miles from New York CSty. I do see the Army game every year, and occasionally I manage to get to Baltimore for the Navy battle. Every once in a while! get a yearning for one of those never-to-be-forgotten Glee Club trips. 
**A1 Daffy hasn't moved oat of either his home or budness address since 1928 and is practicing law. He's still the same old 'Duff.' Ed Brcnnan formerly of Brooklyn but now of Walpole, BCass., is with the Mill Fabrics store. He's married and has two fine children. I haven't seen your old roommate, Al Taylor, in almost three years. He was at my Dad's funeral. I imderstand he's some kind of an investigator for the Department of Justice. 
*^an Bradley is a doctor, and I hear he's a good one. He lives out in I^ong Island. I see Larry Cnlliney once in a while. Larry before he was married used to be a freauent vii^tor at our house. Jim Conmey worked in Wall Street in New York a short time ago. He's married; recently he left N. Y. to return to Iowa." 
George Byrne, from Brooklyn, writes: 

"My Dad died three years ago at the home of my brother at Rye, N. Y. I'm married and have one boy about a year and a month old. He looks exactly UTss me so you can see what a handicap the poor child has. Maybe he'll be another half­back, who knows I I've been with the firm of Foster-Wheeler 'heat engineers' as a structural draftsman* for almost two years, before that in the same capacity with the firm of W, E. Ander­son A Company. As you know, I live in Flathusb." 
Doc Forge writes from Des Moines, la.: 

"Goodyear has been fairly decent with me. I now travel practically the whole state of Iowa, along with five counties in Illinois, and three in BCnnesota. I have been married since 1929, during which time we have increased the population of Iowa by seven, two boys and five girls; so Kirby can be counted out as the top. 
"I talked with Jim Keams recently. He's lo­cated at Benton, Wis. Jim looks grand, and was very busy with his garage work. In my traveling I see Larry Blason, '29. and Chuck Casey, '26. regularly." 
Bill Kirwan writes from Chariton, la.: 

"All I know about the class of '28 is what I read in the "Alumnus." Your letter was for­warded from Antigo^ Wis. However, I've been transferred from there since last March, While there-I used to see a lot of Tom McDoagaL Tom was district attorney for several terms and is building up a nice law practice. I hear from Vince Waldi occasionally and attended his wed­ding. Vince has acquired most of the farm land in Pratt County, is active in back stage politics, and has found time to act as head man on several New Deal farm projects. 
"Aa for myself, I've been with Montgomery Ward mnce leaving school, and have been man­aging stores for the past nine years. Have two children: Sally, eight, and Billy, five." 
News comes that Joe Benda is doing his usual good job as head coach at St. John's University, CoUegeville, Minn., whence he retomed upon leaving Notre Dame. 
Art Stenios received the degree of doctor of philosophy in education this summer at <Hiio State University. 
Bin Mahin, now section engineer in dmrge of metallurgical engineering at the Westinghooae Electric and Mfg. Co., East Flttsburs^, Fa., and Walter C Troy, *37, also a metallurgical engineer for Westinghouse. prepared a PM>er. "Hie Heat I^eatment of the Chromium-Carbon Stainless Steels." which was presented at the 23rd Annual Convention of the American Society for Metals held Oct. 20 to 24, in Philadelphia. 
1929 
Joseph P. McNamara. eial's Office, IndianapaUs, lad. 

John P. (Clipper) Smitli is asastant personndi director for Pratt-WMtney, East Hartford, Oonzu 
Hugh HcManigal is general superintendent of the million and a half dollar Gilpin Court hous­ing project in Richmond, Va. Hugh has two daughters and a two-year old son that's "a winner." 
Jos. McNamara, your esteemed secretary, re­cently formed a law partnership with Thomas 
M. Quinn in Bidianapolis. Joe retained'his duties as deputy attorney general of the state, but, even so, found time to help direct the local clubs highly successful Notre Dame dinner held in con­nection with the recent American Bar Asaodation convention in IndianaiKilis. 
1930 Richard L. Donoghoe, 31t SirtnU t Dr., New York City. 
Gil Prendergaat, of Baltimore, was bade for the Arizona game. Gil is in the insurance business and volunteered his help to N. D. boys seeking employment. 
Ridiard Neeson, organist and musical director at the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception, Springfield, III., has been appointed to the staff of the Springfield College of Music and Allied Arts as instructor in organ muric 
Vince McCae is associated in law with Quinn & Doremus, of Red Bank. N. J. Vince was nuu> ried oh June 28 to Miss Helen Mazza. and they are living at 40 Haddon Park, Red Bank. N. J. 
Joe Apodaca has resigned his position as senior economist in the Department of Agriculture to become chief economist for the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, directed by Nelson Rockefeller. Joe has a new address, too; it's 1601 Argonne PI.. Washington, D.C. 
George Winkler, Jr., is busy celebrating the 50th anniversary of John Winkler's Sons, Die., a storage and moving concern founded by George's grandfather in Far Rockaway, N. Y. The busi­ness has branched out into some 19 other services since its organization, and was made the subject for a special anniversary edition of the "Rock­away Journal.** 
 Berffan, 838 E. CUax An .1931 John 
Soutk Bend. Ind. 
From John Bersui: 

Any laurels for tlie class* man of the month ­should certainly he passed on to Frmnk W. Lealir for the splendid job he has done 'with the 1941 varsity thus far. His articles for Kinss Features have been interesting and well written. SVank is now a real South Bender as he owns his own home here; his wife; mother and three diildren became residents last month, and furthermore he drives a Studebaker car. At the Army. Carnegie. Tech, and Georgia Tech games he was the center of informal '31 gatherings. 
The early games drew many members of the class. At the Indiana game were. Art Mdffsweii who broke up a Los Angeles convention trip to be on hand. Art is stiU doing a greftt job for m Boston advertising agency. Class prexy Jade Saanders of Boston also tiaed a Chicago eonven­tion of lamidercn to b« oa tb* canpni^ AIn aaw 
diarming lbs . Bsk NMJ M and Bob of Daticit: 
"TWA" Oakaa was passincliis Amy trip Htov 
atn* araond in font of gate 14: Ma Vtjtt, tht 
Chieaco stock bnkar, and Jnwr BaUr not cm 
hand as were: JIa mtaOmg, Jakm MOmtrn, Wt 
nulaitl. Bd SmM . Daa Chd^ El Ifnsar. 
Jia Kaanwr. Laxir BaUbccr, of our town, and 
Dick Baker. Ckarfia P*wm^ Jade Hwhca, Wmi 
Bahaiai. Wha (VBiica. Bar New and Hnk Ttrf 
were in Atlanta for tha Tech game. At Om 
Ctoiegie game. Bfll MaganaB. Tsd hit, Uck 
ODaanen, Tez Bniger, Jafanqr Hldnr. and 
CkarBe ^iadl were a few asen in Oa tilt 
Stadinm. Tbose in attendance at the Amy gaaa 
certainly made a showing almost as large aa 
oar ten year zemiiott. It would be diSiealt to state 
wfaetifeer there were more Sl'crs in the' standa 
or along tlie mHinfs. Just to mention s few of 
the boys seen over the week-end were Daa lffa%iB, 
Dr. Paal O'Csaasr. Bah Maasey. Tfm Bcaits^ Bad 
Fahy. Art Beigca. Ukm LWdd. Bai Taahy. Dick 
Lacy. D M Baiter. Ed Mahaa. Bab KA, JIB 
Boardena. Jaka SalBTaa, Ji a Baike and Bd 
Caaaiagkaa, who was 'the center of disebssioa 
on the care of twin sons. In the poll taken of 
the groop, Tkm Benits; the ex-Sooth Bender. Jlai 
Becke. and Jeka SaDbaa the Faasaie lawyer were 
the only bachelors in the gathering. 
Our congiatulationa to Hr. and Mrs. Gewge Costdia and Hr. and Mrs. Badl Wdatcr who were married in Sooth Bend last month, the Costellos are living on Chicago's sooth side where George is a clerk in the office of the Department of Internal Bevenoe, and the Webster* are in South Bend. Boell is a demist with the O'Biien Varnish Co. 
At a recent Northwestern football game saw Bert Helifer, Bowman's dairy north side Chicago manager, who related that he liad not missed a Saturday football game in some time. Bert was' probably ddng a little scouting on his own. for ­the Wildcats were certainly tough tliat day. Also there was Henry O'Caaadl, the demon diemical salesman. Henry related that all was well on the north side, and that he certainly would be on hand for the Notre Dame-Northwestern 'gam^ Frank Carideaw backfield coadi of the ITniveisity of Iowa, took a torn at scouting Wisconsin that day and stated that Ibwa (Sty is sort of a desolate ' qmt for members of the class to even pasa throng Frank is looking fine and is down to 185 after years of carrying 206. Gene Cayla is a field man for the Internal Bevenoe Department and is kept busy traversing three states, Tllintiis, Iowa and Hissonri. Lea Cask formerly of Niles is in the F.BX office at Huntington. W. Ya. and managed to spend a iiart of his vacation in the old home town. Chreace Daikin has his own ardiitectuTe office in Detroit and has been very busy these past 10 months with federal hooains projects. 
Joe Haraey is now in his eighth year of teadi­ing at Thornton High sdmol. Harvey, HI. Joe ia one of oor few remaining badielors in that vicin­ity. Jim Kcanwy is back in action at Notre Dams after a summer spent in the study of Spanish at . the University of Wyoming. Jae Laaermaa. tiie sage of Kariaette. Wis, writes to advise bis friends that the Mrs. and himsrlf will be on hand tat the Northwestern game and the Xarinctte Knitting KiUs suite will be at the Palmer Hboae. Bafc Stick has recently rompletrd his new hoaa in Canton and relates pnmdiy that the paintins waa all dona by himself. He is giand kni^t of his coondl of the KniaMa of Cblnmboa. Bik HQger. of Cohuaba^ Ind, op for tlw Indiana game, related that then are now three yooog KIgcrs so he ia kept veiy boay in Ids departsMnt store; Fiaak flrrtida haa dia»ilail Claialaad Cor Detroit wba* be is associated wiOi hia braUMr ia tba UUibm IIIHIIUM Cisna WaaadI Is asiv­ing wid> the Aia«r HccBeal Cotpa at Ftet BM-. ning, Ga. Jack Caaasa is mnning a vadal tiaia 
to the Southern California game, Nov. 23 from Coluaxbas, Ohio. Jack is city recreational director in Colimibus. Dan is doing a &ie job with the FuUerton Investment Co. Al Grisanti. genial Cleve­land restaurateur, and Larrr Krai, office sui>­pHer, suffered brolffin right arms this fall, ^that explains the absence of Cleveland class news. 
Sympathy of the class is extended to Bill Leahy, class vice-president, on the death of his father. Dr. Jeremiah I^eahy, and to John Hanson on the death of Ms brother. 
There will be a swell smoker on the eve of the Southern Cal game in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel sponsored by the Notre Dame club of St. Joseph Valley, so if you will be in town we shall see you there. 
George Vlk is now directing athletics at a naval base at Midway Island, Pacific Ocean. "Midway, if you are not familiar with it, is located 26 degrees, 5 hoars and 19 minutes from nowhere in particular. My job is to take care of the recreation program," writes George, who has been on the island five months with a con­struction crew engaged in government work. 
Bev. George Szymanowsld, CS.C, has been chosen CYO director for South Bend. 
Bay Disco has been appointed vice-chairman of the Boy Ufe committee of the New York State Council of the Knights of Columbus. Ray's duties will include the coordination and expansion of the Columbia Squires Circles in the councils of the Archdiocese of New York. For the past four and a half years he has been employed in the Court of General Sessions of New York County. 
Henry Lncero has been made manager of the overseas sales division of the Linotype Co. Henry has been with that ors^nization since 1937, and has spent much time in several Latin-American countries. 
Walt Sclioland sends in some news of other classes and the report that he is a salesman for Horse and Rogers, 29 Hudson St.. New York City, ffis home address is 230 Elm Dr., Rochester, 
N. Y. Walt has two boys and two girls. 
EUis BlomstrtHn writes: "Having joined the Naval Reserve as a second class yeoman, I went into active duty during July of this year. I was attached to the Reserve Officers Training School, 13th Naval District Receiving Station. Puget Sound Navy Yard, Bremerton, Wash., as yeoman to the executive officer and chief instructor. I do clerical work in the office and come in contact with graduates from numerous colleges and uni­versities." 
 Myron E. Crawford, 6718 Frank­1932 Dr. 
lin ATC , Cleveland, Ohio. 

Carl Nedom of Salinas, Calif., ardent Notre Dame fan, sent vs a letter during the summer containing much news for our last issue, but one paragraph got lost in the bustle of going to press. Here, with apologies to Carl and to you all, is that paragraph: "I visited with Jim Delaney at the N.CJLA. meet in Falo Alto in June and learned from him that Blardiy Schwartz and his wife (lovely too) had Coadi Hahoney and mem­bers of the track team (Delaney, O'Ronrke, Hunt­er, and Boy) at his home after the meet for a buffet lunch. His residence is 2380 Palo Alto. I saw Harchy about two weeks ago at his home and enjoyed a nice vi^t. He was very compli­mentary about C!oach Mahoney and the Notre Dame hoi's with him, calling them 'real gentle­men and a cre^t to Notre Dame.* Marchy, inci­dentally, is very happy with Shaughnessy and Stanford. He also thinks that Bade Shaw's, '22, Broncos may be about the toughest of the lot for the IncUans. He does not think that Stanford TOU have another 'story book' season. He thinks 
Oregon will be very tough, where Manny Vczie, '29, is assistant coach to Tex Oliver this year." 
Tigfae Woods, 7944 Ellis Ave,, CUcac% 
1933 in. 

Benjamin Weinstcin, chief adult probation of* ficer of the St. Joseph (Tounty juvenile coort, was elected chairman of the St. Joseph Valley dugpter of the American Association of Social Workers. 
1934 
Robert BL CahiU. Athletic Notre Dame, Ind. 
Lieat. John E. Conley, USNR, is now poblie relations officer of the Norfolk Naval Air Station. John has been associated with • the "Baltimore Evening Sun" since his graduation. Daring the winters of 1940 and 1941. he spent some time in the West Indies and South America eoUectinc data for a series of articles on political conditions and defense. He's also been correspondent in the Baltimore area for the magazine "Newsweek." John is married and has a son 15 months old. 
Bill Sheridan, whose address is P.O. Box 3021. Cristobal, Canal Zone, writes: "fVom the time that I came to the Isthmus in August of last year, I worked for the Panama Railroad Co., bat since August of this year I have been chief deputy clerk of the V, S. District (^ourt h^e in the Zone. It has necessitated my moving from the Pacific ade to the Atlantic side of the Isth­mus; and it has given my fortunes a considitable jump over my former job. In June of this year I was called home by the death of my mother. While in the States I saw Don Dogan, the souash king. He hold me that he is still employed as head of Gimbel Brothers' sport department In New York City; and he proudly introduced me to his charming bride of last spring. He's still the same old Don." 
Jchn Claader. helped Bob Cahill out this montli with the following letter: 
"Rather a hectic time you caught me with your request. Bob, as at present I am working on the (Community Fund and also trying to dis­tribute our Milwaukee Club football books. Can't say as I can furnish much information on fellows in the '34 class but here goes with all the dope I could gather in the last few days. 
"Dick Kelly passed through Milwaukee on bis way home from the Indiana game and stopped off to visit John Bnut. Both the boys are bosy building everything an architect can these days. Dick is in Neenah, Wis., working hard, and contrary to rumors started some time ago, is not married. John Bnut is now married and a proud father. Charics Jahr of Elkhom, Wis., was last reported seen in northern Wisconsin, but where he is now is hard to say. Ray Horrissey is in Delavan, Wis. 
"Charles (Bud) HcNidiols is working out of Albuauerque, N. M. He probably will be down there a few months. He is working for the Hyman-Michaels Co. of Chicago. Last reports on Dolce Hilhejm had him working on the fire de­partment in Beloit, Wis. Harold Johnson is with Globe Union here in Milwaukee, but is changing over to Perfex Co. this month. George CilhnM, a new father within the last three wedcs, is in Chicago with Armour and Co. 
"Dave FrodiUcfa, who helped me out conrider­ably on information for this letter, is in Mil­waukee as manager for Wagner Bakery. It is always proper to mention the name of Bob Jayaes when talking about Froehlich. Bob was here in Milwaukee last summer on his vacation and we had a swell time. Bob is with the life department of Travelers Insurance Co. in New York. Bab Cassady also dropped into Milwaukee about three weeks ago. Bob is production manager of &e Jackson Box Company in Cincinnati. Married and a proud p2pa. 
"Ned Qninn, who I always thought would be an undertaker, took the opposite course and now is town physician of Bloomffeld, N. J. Wonder if he can still perform those chest and stomadi exercises. Bill Frawa, Bob Hamilton, and lately Bed Forrest are with the Domore Cbmpany in Badne, Wis. Bob Bntler is now with American Lines in the sales promotion department. Under­stand he just became a father the second time. 
"Xlcotge Bfcnazd is with station WLS in Chi­cago, announcing and no doubt still singing "Old Kan River" from time to time. Bass Leonard is with Ftankfort IMstiUery in thmr Chicago office. f^ank McCann is building houses for the govern­ment at Camp Aberdeen, Md. Understand the contract was of pretty good size. Ken Montie is an accountant in Decorse, Michigan. Tom Oakes has a lumber, coal, and building supply business in Clinton, la." 
John enclosed this letter from Bill Fromm in Racine. Wis.: 
"Not much news on '34 men here, I'm afraid. Beb Haaulton is vice president and sales manager of Domore and father of three fine kids. He tells me he saw Bob Kelly, who is with the Kings­bury Arsenal, at Notre Dame recently. 
"Jim Forrest is now selling Dumore grinders in New York City, after spending some time here at tiie plant and in other parts of the country. He's to be married on Nov. 8.. 
*1 saw busy Bob Cahlll when I was down at school the di^ of the jbidiana game. I am now in charge of motor sales here at the Dumore Co. We are specializing, for the duration, in small dectric control motors for aircraft, and I have occasion to fly to the West Coast or the East every month or two. I've run into several Notre Dame men in my wanderings but, strangely enou^, none of *34." 
1935 
Fnnidyn C Hochniter, MO Roscdale Ave^ St. Louis, Ho. 
Jemne M. BOTIC took temporary C.S.C. vows in Ansnst at St. Joseph's novitiate in Bollins Prairie, Ind. 
From Hoeh: 

"Witliin tlie past week came three letters, and tJiey constitute the dope for this trip to the editor. 
First, a note from Wade KeHcher in Chicago. Wade continues with Iiis father's carloading and distrtbatinfir company, as his invaluahle assistant. The last time we saw Wade we met unexpectedly at the St. Louis Club Christmas party in the University Cliib. Wade writes that he hopes to be back for the affair this year, 
Aeeordine to Wade, golf is still in the air thcttgb winter snow is not far away. Several weeks ago he got in a threesome with Tom fiiTiiJe and George Demetrio. Tom and George are planning on going back for the Southern Cal game on the 22nd. There should be a good number of the gang back. We had planned it ourselves but now find it is impossible. We'll certainly tell your ole roomie AI Bavarino you were asking for him. Wade. 
JiB Qainn of New York came through with a swell letter, with news on himself and several of the crowd. Ohe best part of it was that we finally got a little "stuff" on the silent partners. 
Jim was with us in old Freshman Hall that has gone the way of all barracks. He spent chilly winter ni^t s with the rest of us while we thought up new ways of persuading Father Hekney that we really needed a night in town, and that his High Mass was the best on Sunday. 
We married fellas have another ranking mem­ber in our group in Jim. Hr. Quinn popped the question to Hiss Harie Blossy, class of '39 College of New Bochelle. They were married on April 20, 1940 in St. Augustine's Church, Larchmont, N.Y. An off-spring is anticipated for New Year's. It's swell, Jim! 
And here is the. dope on those missing heirs. 
J«hB W. Hiscliu. m is married. Yep. the Potts-ville flash who wallced along in a certain proces­sion with Hakcrt and HMhiciter, the guy who was on one side while Hocan flanlced our other in every class, that Hiccins fella is really alive. He just took the leap into that matrimony pool in native Pottsville last June when he married Hiss ^thryn Lynagh. We haven't the sli^test idea what John has heen -doing these many years because he doesn't use pen and ink, bat, according to our correspondent, he just got himself a swell new job as district supervisor for the United States Fidelity and Guaranty Co. Tlie Higgins are residing in Harrisburg, Pa. and John is making that his base. 
Here is a scoop—something on Bill Rye, ex. '35. Bill is living in Long Beach, Long Island, and is working with Jim Qainn as a junior executive for Bondex Inc. (investment counsel to banks and insurance companies.) After leaving us in Jime, '32. Bin went on out to Rockhurst College in Kansas CSty. One year there and the Rye man switched to Loyola in Chi. where he took his degree. Besides holding down a full time job. Bill plays football on Friday nights. 
Then there is Art Chadwick. You will all re­member that Art started with us, then changed to North Carolina for a time and finally returned to take his degree at N. D. in '36. For some time the Chadwick lad was a stock siKculator of no small account. He suddenly joined the 7th Regi­ment (you know that snooty National Guard out­fit that "owns" its own armory). All this happened last February—Art hasn't been heard from since. 
It sure was good hearing from you Jim. It took six years to get this one out of you, how about cutting down your time on the next one? We need to hear from the "never writers" to get the low-down on all ibe crowd. 
And here is a letter from Harry Dabol Gafney. We didn't know about forgiving you for the six year silence, Dabol, hut when we got our teeth into all the juicy news, well we'd share another one of those boxes from home all over again. When you mentioned that first box we "destroyed" it took us back tea years. A lot has happened to all of us since then, kid. 
Harry had just returned from the hospital where he recuperated from the flu. He is feeling fit as a fiddle now and back at his coaching and teach­ing job at Ware, Mass., High school. May we extend the condolence of the class on the death of your father, Harry. Dr. Gafney had heen ill for some time. He died last August 3. 
Here is a check up report on George (Muggsy) HcGratli who took to the Marines last Hay. At present he is stationed at the Naval Armory in Chi. According to Harry, Huggsy is making per­iodical trips to N. D. What we would give to see McGrath in a uniform! 
Ray ' Shea from Springfield, Hass. joined the ranks of the selectees last spring, but his present whereabouts are unknown. Before going into the Army, Bay was with the phy. ed. department of the Springfield schools. 
We haven't heard a word from or about Neil Crawley in a long time, Harry. The last news he was married, had oUspring and was working for the Brooklyn Catholic Charities. Do you want to add to this Neil, wherever you are? Of your other buddies—never a word, Harry—they must have dropped off the earth. 
Harry mentioned John Pettingill down in Pana­ma. When the Hochs were down in Panama last August we had hoped to see you, John, especially 

-at the "Strangers Club" in Colon on a certain Friday night. We were the guests of Joe Harring­ton, '39. and met all the notables among the Panamanians and Americans, but no Pettingill. 
' Joe told us about your swell work though, John— lots of luck. 
That about deans up the out-of-state news. John (Gunner) McGratli dn^ped in one Saturday evening to see us. He is stationed at Fort Leon­ard Wood as a second "Looie" in the "dean up squad" of Negroes. He has been offered a c^ ­tainey in Signal Corps because of his ability, to handle cameras. 
Jim Hill was by about a month ago and pre­sented us with a plaque of "Rock" on the back­ground of a football. One of Jim's N.Y-A. super­visors designed the piece and our friend was thoughtful in having one made for us. 
Regarding Hodiieiter: Our contract was re­newed at St. Louis IT. School of Social Service. Wc added a new course this year. Social Statistiea. There are two new "extracurricular" activities: with the United Charities of St. Louis Speaker's Bureau: and with the State of Hissouri Herit System as chairman of the examining hoard, for oral exams in this area for the candidates for jobs in the Social Security Commission (the state D.P.W.) and in the Unemployment Commission. 
We want you to know, Ji a Qaln*. Wa4e Kel-Icher and Hany Galfney, how mudi we appre­ciated your letters. It was swell putting the old Freshman Hall crowd back together again. Let's have more letters like those. "HI next time then —so long. 
 Ueran. CI E. fSlk St . .Apt. S, 1936 John 
New Yeik aty. 
Ray Herrly was recently appointed superintend­
ent of the fuel cell division of the U. S. Bnbber 
Company, Hishawaka. 
Corp. Joe Sdimidt has been promoted to sta.1 
sergeant in the headquarters company of Camp 
Lee's Quartermaster Replacement Center. Joe is 
in the public relations office. He organized the 
first N. D. alumni army club at Camp Lee. Be­
fore induction into the Army. Joe was associated 
with the advertising department of the' "New 
York Sun." 
From John Horan: 
Guess it must be the state of the nation, the national emergency or something, but the thin trickle of mail is just about to dry up. If you are too busy filling defense orders we for^ve yoa: but we need a few letters from the rest of yoa to grind out this column; so, drafted or deferred, . grab a pen and let's have a few lines about your comings and goings. 
We learn with regret from the latest issue of the "Alumnus" that J M Foley of Dallas, who started with our class but stayed over to get his degree in 19.37, was killed in an air crash at Randolph Held, Texas on Sept. 1$. To the many members of the class who knew Joe this announce­ment was a great blow. On behalf of the 193C graduates we express our condolences to the family and assure them that Joe wilt be remem­bered in the Mass said each-week for the members of the class, living or dead. This is provided by the Perpetual Mass Fund which BUI Wahh col­lected-at our five-year reunion, and whidi pro­vides the weekly Mass till our ten-year gathering. If you overlooked your contribution, send it along. 
Tom Campbell wrote in from Grand Rapids to say that he is going to try hard to make the Army game and to get New York prepared for his coming. O.K., Tom, we'll have the keys to the city polished up for your arrival. In addition, Tbra passes along the information that Bab Cavaaaath* the demon F.DXG. banker from Washington, will try to get out from under the red tape in time to get to the game. Also that Jaim Bnner is working in Holland, Hich., for the Charles P. Limbert Co., while Tom himself has heen bosr all summer adding up columns for Seidman ft Seidman, accountants. Tom would like to have the results of Hatt "Streaky" Theraci^ team this fall: that's your cue. Coach Themes to ship the the infonntiai aloac to tUa . hope yoa haw m tatter wiaaiav 1 oar lofthell .tnaa at Ooen SMnqr Onnh ami Iheriwa). SORT « • hsi* M : addicn on Carir >•€••. flnB. tot If Oair nais Oiib be oatfit to dnv this cofanaB a Bae ami w» wm print Oe --
Jec MaasliH, bam op Prwridtaee, B. L. Way. wra«e ia to say that he aad Iba. X. maU ka dnwB for tbe Aimr-mme. and for fkim alaa «ar are haviac the kcra «i> the dty tmm aa catra coat of poOsh. • .. 
Also in the anil* was a lang letter boat Jhid ' Geitaaa, who as maatad here last aoadi,' II ba<^ in SoaUi Bend aa aadstaat eAo r of tte Soath Bend "Sboiwcn Newa."- Bad nports Hart ' in the pcoeess'of aettiag settled ag^a ia Soaa Bend he haa aeea Lanyn J«ia Leckaer aad Sodal Worker Caiai •ilaiat, aBooc others. 

Jcnr Va«d seat aloag a card and ill Mind to follow it np shortly irith a letter. Jetiy is mik­. ing with his Dad in the Biver Park theater ia 
Sooth Bead. 
Congratulations are dne Sheik BmniA who was picked by "^mtiBS NewsT' as flie oatataadbw haaeball aBwameer in CISBS AA »~—1~||. Shstb . is presently eonaeetad irith WOKO sad WABT, Albany. 
Cbntinoing with the vital statiities glsaaederaai the retnra post-cards seat oat with the aaaoaaes­nent of oar nve-Tear Bcanion we leam that, as of Isst Xsy. BOi UMm wss dwitly to be ia­ducted iafo the Anay. Ibifc atUk tnm oat Oaudia way. reported tiiat be had married HMTT nances Kelly of Raymond. & Dak., on StpL 28. 1940.' Consratulatioas Mark even if tbcy are a bit hte. 
Jadi CaiUa stated that he was irith Aiacrieaa Aiiliaes in Barhaak OaBf:. while ChaiMs Chik said that-gradaatiaB eieirises at Foidhaai Law Sdiool woold keep him ttam gettiaf tmA for reunioB. Colond Jack Bray . reported ia fnra Piidneah. Xj. that be had jnst bigeoaK a hosse owner and was now worrying Shoot the iiajiiili on the pisee. 
Bradwr atmm. &&€.. was stataoned at tiie Foreign Kssion Snatnary. BmnHsnd. D.C. aad was atten£nc CathoHe UnhraAy with fcsfct Fraacis AaiMi. '34. Tnm out ia Tan Nays. OBL, eaaae word ttam Jeha Gsyae that be was Aortly' to have an adfition to tte faaiily. Jbha was laa­ning his own nurseries in Tan Nay« bat one spedaBzed in Ikiwera and plants. wUle the oOer was for the Come bdr. 
Fathers Jaha McCae and •abcrt MeKac, te­ported that Oey woe both at the IV»dgB Hiaion ­Seminary in BrooUsad. D.C. and that only One press of atadtss kept tbca ftom settiBS bad for reoaioo. Aa ^ Has y added a Aort note that he was startiax his flrst year ss a eoodi aad teacher of histwy at St. JUPu H. S. ia CUcago. CeraiBai IScCaclhy was with Cuiiegie Sted. Gary, as allor sted aeiallar^st. 
And with that we will wind np flie ebhnan' for this issaa. By the fioie this gets into yoor heads the Atmr Case win probably be history aad we will have awt agoodly nnmber of the gang who gravitate to New Tack fw that weA-ead. -We would appredate a few Haes from the rest of yoa regaidag your fiuaily. job, offvring or that shirt we hoiiuaed over reonion wedc-end and never letnraed. A poateaid will do the trid^ sad win bdp OS no end. Thanks. 
1937 tu 

Seven Notre Dame foothaU mm are' peep eoodies in the CUcaco ^strict. Wair heahoit and Fred Bbndee are at Mount Carmel: Joe Gleason, '38. and John Foffle, '38, are at De La Salle: Andy Pilney, '36, at St. Mel; Andy Poplis, '38, at Proviso lEgh; and Henry Pojman is at Weber. 
Jade Gillespie, after 15 months -n-ork on the "Elizabeth Daily Journal." returned to his home town of Wcstfield, N. J. in August to become editor of the "Westfield Leader," a vreekly paper with a circulation of 4,000. 
Lake Tieman and his bride, the former Miss Rosemary Steaber of Chicago, are now living iu Silver Springs, Md. 
Bab Jj^AatT, of Cleveland, was one of the seminarians who took temporary vows at St. Joseph's Novitiate, Rolling Prairie, Ind., in August. Bob is spending this year in Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame. 
Charles Ephsrave, '39, sends news of Arch GottTs marriace to Hiss Anne Wall, of Chicago, in October. Mr. and Mrs. Fen Froning, with their baby son, Michael, returned to South Bend for a viut, after livinsr in Wilmington, Del., for more than a year. 
A note from Bill "Lefty" Jordan, reveals he is vdth the U. S. engineers at Rock Island, HI.. Arsenal, getting good experience and a chance for permanent Civil Service. 
Tom Dnildn has just been commissioned in the Naval Air Corps as an ensign, and has been assigned to Bombing Squadron 6, attached to the Carrier Enterprise. 
From Paal Foley: 

Hie frost is on the pumpkin and the Luftwaffe is hammering at Moscow. So another year slides down the greased skids. 
Pumped full of false energy by the proximity of the 100th birthday of "the old U," we resolved some weeks ago to desert the haphazard habits of the past nearly five years and put this screed on a scientific basis. Action was suited to the words to wit: We caused to be printed a scad of sta­tionery, dug out a tattered copy of the student re^ster, vintage of '37, and with the aid of our demon secretary began flooding the mails with wails. To date 200 letters have been mailed; 10 replies have been received and two letters wan­dered back badly beaten marked with the myster­ious stamps of post-ofifice clerks meaning "he ain't here." 
We repeat this to let you know that congress­men with banking privileges to loan are not the only ones whose mail will be handled by the boys in ffray. And we had a very subtle thought. Thonsht we: "If they answer, we have some news to print; if th ^ don't answer, we'll say so and stUI have something to print." 
First reply, as seems fitting and proper, came from Chicago, from the talented typewriter of Paal BiactonL On a definitely dour note M. Bia­gioni starts: "Yes I do realize it^s been nearly five yean—I look back at those years now with a faint but certain amount of bitterness. It was about then, I suppose, that the head mockers were saying that German jerk with the moustache wouldn't amount to a row of cancelled bond coopotts; so here I am with a. note requesting "alnnmi news" and another bearing greetings from my draft board with orders to report for a medieal examination prior to induction." 
Paul repoTts that he clicked shortly after gradu­ation with Rothraff and Ryan—^the only toi}-flight advcrtidxv agency in America with as few as two partnNS—and has been with their Chicago office ever sinee. He modestly refers to "writing con­tinuity for radio, writing and producing a show and some ^nradie writing." The last mentioned bdnff, amons other things, an article in "Com­monweal." "Biag" is unmarried. 
Hany Baldwin, we are told, after hthig bowed out of Harvard law school, is with a gilt><dged firm of corjroration practitioners in Chicago. Brother Baldwin even has his name on the door— which in Chicago corresponds roughly to the Congressional Medal—with palm. 
Vince Murphy, according to Biagioni, is married and living in Decatur, III., said to be employed by the Commonwealth of Illinois in a capacity having something to do with labor relations—of whom we all have a few. 
Coy is the word for John F. Baker. John F. received our letter, cast it lightly with the ads for the bald-head cures and other such trivia— but it was rescued in a dark hour by BCrs. John who, when her dour si>ouse was engaged in other activities, surreptitiously typed a reply. Sh-sh! Says spouse: "I read most of Jack's letters [That's a tip-off on this guy Baker] I realize how difficult it is to get news from the fellows because they simply will not write [No they 'simply* will not!] So I take it upon myself to give you what little news there is and if I seem to brag about Jack, forgive me. I think he's wonderful." [Ihis is the real McCoy, gang, no kidding.] 
Anyway, to make a brief story. Jack Baker is a merchandise manager at Stem Bros., New York Cnty. He was married on Sept. 7, 1940. Mrs. Baker who proves one of our best informants, tells us that Bill Mnlrenan is unmarried and doing ex­ceptionally well in the insurance business in Strat­ford. Joe O'Neill and his recent bride were in New York CHty for a while but "Cousin Joe" was booted up the ladder and is now manager of his insurance company's branch in Atlanta, Ga. They reside at 4141 Club Drive, Atlanta. 
Jade Broderick is reported happily settled with his bride, the former Linda Flynn, in the suburbs of Philly. We report this as it came to us, know­ing you will read your own interpretation into that suburhai> location, etc 
Dan Sullivan, we are told, is with the FBI in Reno; that should be a banner as^gnment. 
We were shocked, somehow faintly hurt, by a salutation on a letter reading "Dear Mr. Foley." and from a journalism major who should know that only the president of the U. S. gets a "Mr." —and then only west of Chicago during a Demo­cratic administration. We assumed the mail came to us in error and it was returned to us by our puzzled father only after he could make nothing of such remarks as "Mishawaka needs a shot in the arm." He thought it was a new translation of Hiawatha. But the letter was from South Bend, signed by Milton Bode who says "When the "News-Tnmes" blew up I grabbed a job with Bendix Products Corp., aviation division.... my work borders on aeronautical engineering." So you boys in the Air Corps, be of good cheer, sev­eral of our lads are "bordering on aeronmutieal engineering." 
Bock "married a high school sweetheart" (his own I presume) in Sept.. 1940 (which seems to have been open season). Bock, after one' year, pronounces his marital venture a huge success— which we know it is. As a true journalist at heart Bock submits a fine array of facts and figures, like this: 
Harry Koehler. '37, is married and now work­ing in South Bend for O'Brien Varnish Co. He's in sales promotion and doing right smart. 
Apparently Fred Mulcahey is working for the Milwaukee "Sentinel." He did a stretch !n Mish­awaka for the "S. B. Tribune" but was paroled for good behavior—^ich in Mishawaka means you do not steal watches from the dead. 
Lawy^ng on the banks of the St. Joe is Jake Lediner, passing off opinions and advice on sudi heart warming subjects as warranty deeds, pr(q>­erty abstracts, suits in equity, etc. etc 
Ed Ftsdwr is still grinding out successful pub­licity for St. Joseph College at Rensselaer, Ind. Ed is a land owner now. 
Still in South Bend, dispensing lead nickels from a teller's window, is Dan Kalczynski, pres­oitly employed at First Bank and Trust Co. 
We have word that one of the boys who couldn't stick around for graduation, but left in 1935, is now hurrsring through a SO-montfa stretch in the armed forces—^he's Elmo Nix, remembered as a pal of the Nardones. Also at the front is Bill Bl^exs, English major and, later. MA. '38. We have no word as to Bill's camp, but we do know he was toughened for the ordeal by one year of teaching in a South Bend junior high. 
Trusting you won't be bored by tarrying a while longer in South Bend, we have an epistle from Jerry Claey% the "Puff Ball King," telling good tidings from the candy crowd. Jerry is mar­ried, as yon know, and living in a new home. He's still travelling for "Claeys Candy, it Doesn't Cloy." He hangs tags on several of the boys: 
. Gordon Murphy is still living in Cheyenne. Wyo. and is assistant cashier in the American National Bank. He's not married and is said to have no prospects—that's Wyoming for you. 
Across country is Joe Qninn at Newton, N. J.. working for Limestone Products of America— anything in stone from gall to tomb. Cla^s says Quinn was in South Bend recently but offers no reason. 
Booting box cars around the country to help defense is Tom Hayes who's connected with a box car outfit in Indianapolis. 

We understand Joe Dmecker has deserted the I>eddling of bottled air and is now selling steel. He was last seen in Evansville, Ind. 
Migrant from South Bend as far as Anderson. Ind., B«d BCx hooked on with the Indiana Bell Telephone Oi. in the experimental division. 
Another Indiana boy who saw the light is Ed Stadc formerly of Mishawaka. now working right here in Detroit for United States Rubber Co. as ' an analytical chemist, perfecting the much-dis­
cussed leak-proof aircraft gasoline tank. 
In national defense, about as far away as you could get. Matt Mdnemey is with a construction company worldng on IT. S. bases in IMnidad. Well, it's better than 21 a month. 

We have at least one CPA in the crowd—one always comes in handy when the kitty seems light. He's Karl King, another South Bend boy. now with the accounting firm King and Crowe. 
CSialk one up for the Fhy. Ed department. Don Hennessey is married and buying shoes for two new children. In odd times he's teaching and coaching at South Bend Central Catholic High schooL 
Jelu Brassel, who's address used to be Taunton, Mass., is now married and living in South Bend where he works for Bendix Aviation 0)rp. In Sooth Bend also are Jerry Davey, who's married and has one diild; Loa Hickeyp the same record, except he's in the undertaking business; Chock Lemons, recently married, is an accountant. 
Howard Mordodc at last report was an an­alytical chemist for the government at its plant in Kingsbuiy, Ind. Ihe chemical tradition is also carried on by Feudal Froning, who is with doPont in Wilndngton, Del. 
Straisjit from Hollywood, In a flash of hack­liftin g and baby spots, comes word from George Cecab who has qoite some tale to tell on the crisp letterhead of RKO pictures. After gradoa­tion George went abroad to study and was at the Univerrity of Loovain when the storm bnAe. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
With bombings growing more and more severe George was forced to flee Belgium, abandoning most of his possessions. After wandering airound fVance, Luxembourg and Germany for several weelcs he shipped to America. Shortly after his return he went to Hollywood (a logical step, after all) and after a stretch in the story deparirxnt is now in the executive division of RKO "plchas." He reports there are several of the boys in Hollywood, including Hugo Melcfaione and Jack Heam. George is particularly anxious to get in touch with William J. O'Snllivan, of the Louis­ville.Ky., O'SulUvans. As an after thought, in typical Hollywood fashion. George pens a post­script reading **No wife, no family." 
From his mother in Chicago, we learn that Ridiard Carroll, is now at Ryan School of Aero­nautics, U. S. Army at Hemet. Calif., in training for a seat in a fighter plane. 
On the prim blue and white letterhead of Camp Upton. Xjong Island. N. Y. we hear from Blatthew Bmccoli who says in part: "The letter­head will have its revelations to you about me. I have been a soldier for four months stationed (me ineffable good fortune) not far from home. I am a classification s];>ecialist and translator for the Army. My brand new wife (Sept. 20, 1941) is a soldier's bride, wed on a week-end with an extra day thrown in by the government (which is all heart really) for the honeymoon.'* Matt*s wife, he reports is a Westchester County girl and they were married in Valhalla. N. Y. 

Jade Armstrong (not the All-Amcrican boy) reports from the vats of the Republic Creosoting Co., for whom he manages a plant in Indianapolis. Not too busy bathing railroad ties, etc.. Jack found time to marry and is now the father of a 21*month old son. 
Tom Carney, who started out in life with a step-sister of Republic Creosoting. viz. Reilly Tar & Chemical Corp.. recently received his FhJ>. in Chemistry from Fenn State and is in the research labs of his company at Indianapolis. 
Watching over you and me from the air is FergiiB Kelly, now a dive bomber pilot in the Marines. 
Bubbling with typical zip comes a note from .our own "pash-man," Frahkte Barbiuh, still hold­ing forth in Harrisburg, Pa. and setting the world on fire in several directions. Those who know -will swoon to hear that Frankie is working for the Department of Health. State of Pennsylvania, in charge of supplies for the school division. "Put your health in Barbush's hands." But when the day is done "The Barb** shakes out the old clarinet and whams a few choruses with the boys—but not in fun—purely on a professional basis. He re­joices in the current swing to swing. Barb was relieved of rifle toting simply for being more than 28 years of age—^unofficially the clarinet playing helped. He*s unmarried and holds forth no real hope. 
Frugal are the Chicago Dnffys, Charies and Robert, who take my letter head and make hen-tracks at the bottom indicating the following, cryptically: for Charles: "Married May 25, 1940 —^Miss Monica Wolfe, Chicago—produce btiyer— High-Low stores—daughter Judith bom July 19. 1941. address 6901 Oglesby ave." From Robert: "Married Dec. 28, 1940—Miss Marjorie Walsh. Chicago—Pat HaOoy, best man—^Ensign in tor­pedo factory, address, 22 Catherine street, New­port, R. I." We leave you to figure out whether Miss Walsh is oijerating a torpedo factory or whether Judith was best man for Fat Malloy. 
As s fitting wind-np we hark back to certain frigid nijrfits on the tiiird floor of Alumni where we devdopcd dandy migraine attadu to the strident tunes of songs by Bob Hart. Same Bob is now a corporal in the U. S. Army, stationed at Camp Sherdian, HI. On Hancavers Bob*s gnn crew was raled ''killed by enemy aircraft" and Bob wrote relatives in Detroit telling of his "death.** One of our operatives got the letter and we re­print it here as typical of N.D. Vhelles Icttres** in (his year of Onr Lord. 1941: 
"Yesterday morning at 10 a.m. my mortal bsdy left in favor of my spiritaal soul and I paiscd away fighting heroically for ray country, acosrtf­ing to Army Regnlation no. 493 Sectian 21. Heaven as I see it is vastly different tkaa I imagined it as a mortal being, sadi as yoarself. St. Pete's first move was to accommodate raysdf and the other members of my gnn section, who died with me, with showersi What a reception! We had not bathed in some three weeks and we did smell kind of bad. After deaning as ap, he let ns in the gates and introduced ns around. It's a great place, bnt I didnt see any of my friends around. Met four other chaps and they suggested we go to a nearby Cloudside Inn, hare a few short jolts and shoot a hit of crap. Well I had about 915 earthly dollars with me which the United States Eovemment let me keep when I was killed and the boys got it—I tried to horraw some more, bnt I couldn't find any bankers in the whole of Heaven so I was studs. About this tiae an Angel flew in with a telegram from 2nd Anay headquarters. It was from Lt. General Ben Lear stating that due to the number of casaalties, we would have to be reincarnated (whatever that is) and returned to earth inside of 24 hours ta serve as reinforcements. We had a great time while we were dead and learned a lot.** 
1938 
Harold A. WUliama^ 318 East hak» Ave., Baltimore, Md. 

Johnny Rieder is doing well in his senior year at Indiana University Medical School, but so far we have no news of the intemeship he has ac­cepted for next year. 
Bob Bryan, also a senior in med school, is 

doing good work at Western Reserve University, 
CHeveland. having won two Ciile Fellowships -since he's been there. Bob has signed his contract for intemeship in the U. S. Public Health Service after graduation. 
Jack Moulder and his lovely wife, Kay, are building a new home in South Bend. The Jack Hynes' recently completed home in the Bend is a winner, but Jack moans at the ^ze of the lawn to cut. 
Vem Rnge is working hard at convincing the government he's indispensable on his large dairy farm in Lowell. Ind. Yem has his finger in several pies, for he*s a coming politician and a bank director. 
Jack Scott was called into active service with the U. S. Marines lost spring, and from the news we had of him, he was stationed in Philadelphia. 
News comes from the father of Francis Smith that Frank was married in July; and has been in Los Angeles for the past four years. He is now district purchasing agent for the Rheem Mfg. Co., of South Gate, Calif. 
Lt. E. Uniacke was graduated from the Marine Corps' Officers training school at Quantico^ Va., with distinguished rating. While undergoing train­ing Ed was awarded medals as an expert with the automatic rifle and the pistol. 
From Hal Williams: 

For the first time since I've started writing the *38 class notes, I have'no letters or itost cards to rely on in getting out the column. For the No­vember "Alumnus." I have just a few notes gath­ered from the boys who have passed through. Baltimore while on their way to greener pastures. 
Roger Sullivan, who is working for the Mari­time Commission in Washington, stopped over for a visit several Sundays ago. Rog said that ht bumped into Bdb Hadntt zeeently and that Bok is a mfmb»r of a parachute HttalVm Boc alia passed along the following informatiao: T m Quhilan is munuging his mother's hotd in I«ki Bomoseen, Vt.; Tees Graves is woridng for Ha^ kins and Sells in Chicago; Jatee Ge f • ripoeto have it—is now in charge of the areluteetai* de­partment for the Colombian government in Soa0i America. Bog's addresiL inddentally is 73S 24tt St...Arlington, Va. ' 
Jchn **Moo9e" Waters, the Oak Park boy idio made good, tel^honed me on Oct. 9 when be and his wife passed through this Utopia while on their way to Washington. John was in a hurry so I did not get an oi»portnnity to see him. Mooee is now worldng for the Continental Can Goaipsny in Chicago, and likes it very mudi. The trip cast was for a vacation. Moose averred. 
Oh yes. Waters said that be saw Tem Haidait while he was in New Tork, and Tom is soon to be drafted. 
Fvt. Jeha Clcary and his bride visited me sev­eral weeks ago while on their wedding trip to Washington. The Clearys were married while John bad a nine day furloo^. After the wedding trip. John went back to the army at Gamp Edwards, Mass. He is doing offiee work, but still doesn't care much for the military life. 
I saw a short in the Baltimore "Sun" (plug) the other day which said that Chack Sweeney of South Bend has been named program chalraian for the 1941 football testimonial banquet at Notre Dame. Chuck is an official this year in the ni^ tional pro football league and is dung mndi high school officiating around the Bend. 

Jiss McNdii^ of Hazleton, Fa., is now living in Baltimore. He telephoned me the other ni^it and said he is working for Bethldian-Fairfield. Jee Semcaraeyn, '39, of Moosic, Pa., is also in Balti­more. He is working, I bdieve. for Bethldiem-Fairfield, too. 
A friend of my sister attended the wedding of Charles "Colonel" Meirisni and Mary Anstin Brodwnbrough.on Oct. 11 in Bicfamond, Va. They were married in the Sacred Heart Cathedral there^ and the fnend reported that the Colond made a very bsndnrmie and dashing bridegroom. I nnder­stand that Colonel is working for some ahuninma company in Bidimond, and "mi^t be drafted,** 
Eddie Matting, an Army man now for six months, recently was transferred to the Chceueal Warfare School at Edgewood, Md., just ontade of Baltimore. He is working at a drafting board. He formerly was stationed at Fort Bchroir, Va. 
And that is all the news I have for the month. You must admit it was short, if not sweet. 
I'll admit I've been lax in batting out letters to you fellows who have been so kind in the past to send along the news, but I promise to do better now that the tennis and golfing season is over. Within the week I'll knock out letters to Gtae Vaalett, Ed Bartnctt, Tea ShcUs, Ed Bicuan. Bud Sherwood. BUI Maheney and others. 
I know that most of you fellows are pretty busy these days what with married life and army maneuvers, but perhaps yon have time to drop a line with the latest : 
I expect to see quite a few of the boys at the Notre Dame-Navy game, and, if everything goes well, all the boys at the Army-Notre Dame game and the Penn on Nov. 1. 
1939 
VfaMcat DcCwraqr. *i** ImAm, KHH wamatT.IU. 

Jifai Wder is mn wiginffr for the Bcmis Bac Oommny, in Bemis, Tenn. 
Ed Fandi heads tlie main floor aeetioa at the Sooth Bend J. C. Pomy store. He started as a salesman in the men's section riiAt after sradu­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
atlon but was advanced to his present position in August. 
Frank Novak's address is Signal Corps, Fort Monmouth, N. J. 
BUI Piedmont is now working for the Boy Life Bureau of the Knights of Ckilumbus as the field representative of the Columbian Squires. 

Chnck Ephcrave sends us news of his marriage to a former St. Mary's girl, Miss Kathryn E. Clifford, of Chicago, April 19, in the I-og Chapel on the campus. He also sends word of Kenneth O'Heara, who is working in Lansing. Mich., and recently became engaged to Miss Jean Battara. And according to Chuck, Bob Converse joined the Army at Fort McPherson, Ga-, late in August. 
Felix Toner is now digging for gold in Alaska. He rated a long write-up in the Oct. 12 "Sunday \'isitor.'* It seems Felix didn't pay too much attention to his pals who often told him, "You go up into the wilds to dig out gold and what becomes of it? You turn it over to Uncle Sam and Mr. Eoosevelt buries it for you down at Fort Knox. Ky." 
Blax BameU*8 South Bend Catholic football squad tripped Andy Pilncy's ('36) Catholic Lions of St. Mel's. Chicago. 21 to 15, in a September grid battle in South Bend. 
•Die words of the patriotic anthem, "Spirit of the U. S. A.,'* a prayer of the Unknown soldier recently published and dedicated to the American Legion, were written by John McGuire of Chicago. 
From Vinee DeConrscy: 

Like Stanford's "T." like Caesar, like Na­poleon, so this column, in the second issue of its third year, falls flatter than a ton of bricks. Letter from Bob Hnether, wedding announcement, visit—^and, save these, blackout. 
In last month's effort we mentioned that Dick Anton planned to drop in for a few days. He came in on a Thursday afternoon, and by Friday afternoon he was flat on his back after an emer­gency appendectomy. So he spent two weeks. Last rei>ort was a successful trip back to Chicago; we hope to see him in a couple of weeks. 
Sole letter was one from Bob Hncther from way out in Los Angeles—^waiting, waiting, wait­ing. We, too, await with great interest, his re­port. Boy or girl. Bob? Bob says that Joe Dunn whom I last saw in Kansas City on his way back to Colorado after selling a load of cattle, is now in California training for a defense job. Bob is still with Lockheed and doing very well. 
Joe Adrian was married in September. Bnrley Grimes dropped in- for a visit, touring various parts in a B-18 Bomber for Uncle Sam. Burley's still at Wright Held, Dayton, Ohio. 
And just as this was being written a last des­perate look at the mailbox disclosed a wedding announcement from Bill Donnelly, whose marriage to Miss Marion Katherine Smith took place Oct. 11, in Queens \^llage. N. Y. 
Hiat's all this month; let's have some action &om somebody! 
1940 
Bobert G. Sanford, 3934 K. Maryland Ave,, BDlwaakee, Wis. 
Jim Byrne is back at Notre Dame working on his master's in education. Henry Collins, of Fair­mont, W. Va., is in the cost engineering depart­ment of the duPont Morgantown ordnance works, but the draft board is bearing down on him. 
Tony Lavelle, who had two years of engineering at Case University, is now a mechanical engineer for the government, supervising the heat and power works at Camp Perry, Ohio. 

Lawrence Petroshins will be admitted to the Illinois bar in November, but he will not have the opportunity to practice for some time since he has enlisted in the U. S. naval reserve and exi}ects to be called by the first of the year. He will attend the Abbott Hall midshipmen's school. Northwestern University, to be commissioned as an ensign. 
The South Bend "Tribune" carried the news that Bob Rodibaucfa was' ordered to the armored forces replacement training center at Fort Knox, Ky., in October. 
Jim Connell, from Newport. R. I., sent us an announcement of his graduation with Class SEMI F, from the Southeast Air Cbrps training center. Maxwell Held, Ala., in August. 
Nat Morse, ex *40, is now^ in the personnel department of Pratt-Whitnej', in East Hartford, Conn. 
Ed Barke, and Gordon A. Love, ex '41, from Buffalo, were recently commissioned as ensigns in the Navy, after having completed a three month course at the Naval Training Station at Northwestern University. They took a Navy cruise in the summer of 1940, when they enlisted, but were allowed to complete their studies ac the University of Buffalo Law School before being called for the training course. Ed exi)ects to study engineering at Cornell University as the next step in his naval training, and Gordon intends to go into the naval air service. 
Paul Kmyer, ex. '40, won a place on the WSBT South Bend, announcing staff in competition with announcers from a number of stations in the Middle West. Recently he had a prominent role in "The Warrior's Husband," a South Bend Community Theatre production. 
John T. Payne of Cleveland, is one of the 

C.S.C. seminarians who took temporary vows in August at St. Joseph's Novitiate, Rolling Prairie, Ind. 
Ceb McCanna is now a private first class; he has been driving army trucks on convoys and in war games, since he left the Bank of Burling­ton this spring. According to Ceb. he also walks miles, eats dust, gains weight, and appreciates letters. His address is 210th C.A. (A.A.); Hq. Bty., A. W. Bn; Fort Sheridan, 111. 
Harold Blakeman has begun the general practice of law in the J.M.S. BIdg.. South Bend- Harold received the G. A. Farabaugh award for out­standing scholastic achievement, at his graduation last June. 
Joe Sotak, after completing one semester' of law at Michigan and one at Western Reserve, is now in the 1st Balloon Squadron Air Corps, Fort Sell, Okia. 
Tom Marker, who is teaching English at Notre Dame again this year, has been very active In local theatre productions. Recently he donned ~ the guise of the old story teller and appeared as narrator when the South Bend Junior Sym­phony presented "Peter and the Wolf." Tom was also irresistible as the lead in the South Bend Community Theatre October production of "See My Lawyer." 
Report comes to the campus that our gentleman from the Old South. Bob Howard, now wants his mail addressed Hqs. and Hqs. Squadron. Denver Branch Air Corps Tech School. Lowry Fidd. Denver, Colo. Bob was in West Virginia with the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Co. 
Jalm Gavan, of the Chicago Black Hawk squad, has joined the Navy air corps and will report in November. 
1941 John W. Pattcrm, Jr^ 553« DarBas­ton Bd^ Pittskaish. Pa. 
Ed Hensclec, Jr., was recently commissioned as an en^gn in the U. S. Naval Reserve in cere­monies at Northwestern University. Ed was married in September to Miss Maria Jane Haven, and is now stationed at Newport, R. I. 
Bob Sweeney is working for the Studebaker Gonioration in South Bend, checking back-orders in the parts and accessories plant. Donald Tiede­mann has begun a three year law course at Harvard. 
After three months' training in the Naval Re­serve Midshipman's School at Northwestern Uni­versity, Francis Baldy, ex. '41, was commissioned as an ensign in the U. S. Naval Reserve in September. 
Eaccne Gcisder, M.A., '41. is assistant to the Rt, Rev. Luigi Liguitti. executive secretary of the Catholic Rural Life Conference. 
Rev. Robert E. Fitzpatridc, of Alpena, has been appointed superintendent of schools for the Di­ocese of Saginaw, Mich. 
Bin Meyers was recently licensed to practice law in Illinois, in keeping with a family tradition. 
Jim Newland has been with the "Indianapolis 
News" since June. Joe Semencznk was drafted, 
after starting with high success, as coach at 
Francis Borgia High School in Washington. Mo. 
Bob Sdialz is at the Studebaker Aviation Corp. 
in South Bend. 
Both Gerry Hickey and Joe Rosso are working for TVA in Kentucky. Joe Papa is back at Notre Dame for the first semester. 

*Jim McCarthy is an accountant for the Armour Co. in Chicago, while Jim HcGrath is with Addressograph in Cleveland. 
Antonio Benedosso is a buck private with Uncle Sam's army. 
Warren Deahl is back at Notre Dame for law. Bob niff is working in the Ijockheed Aircraft plant in Burbank, Calif., in the aeronautical engineering department. Frank Hopkins is with the E. L duPont Company, Wilmington, Del. 
Ed Akxander, recently elected president of the freshman class at the University of Newark Law School, is serving his law clerkship in the office of Attorney General David T. Wilenz, in Perth Amboy, N. J. 
Fritz Naxel is back at Notre Dame working for his master's degree in organic chemistry. Fritz will also continue his studies for a PI1.D. His address is: St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend. 
From Jahn Patterson: 

With the football se son running along at a fast clip. Irishmen of the '41 Class have set aside some of their worrying time for Coach Frank Lcaliy's boys. Some are more concerned about Northwestern than about the draft. 
The few letters that have arrived at 5530 DAR­LINGTON ROAD, PITTSBURGH, PA. (hint ­notice capitals), are full of the typical autumn fcxitball enthusiasm. 
After the Carnegie Tech game in Pittsburgh, a get-together for the team is scheduled for Bill Hawc^ "home" here. Tlie Carnegie-Illinois mag­nate is on the brink of the draft (as who of us isn't). 
Tiie once steady flow of mail is now a mere trickle. Thankful am I that the four (4) '41ers who have ^vritten had some news about their silent classmates. 
The outstanding stylist of William J. Burke's solf course. Jack Keesan, dropped a line from Rochester. In the last "Alumnus" I reported that he was headed for Rochester med school. My mis­take—^he*s at Syracuse. 
Jack modestly writes: '3ob Odenbach and Bed Oowlinc have been lucky enough to keep clear of me since June 1." And according to correspond­ent Keegan, John Tormey is located at U.I.T. where he is further pursuing his engineering work. 
Of Loo HcKensie and Bay Clark. Jack writes— "I have had letters from those two disgraces of Wm. Burke's torture pasture. Lou is on Wall Street with Haskins and Sells, and I have a dollar to the worst Pittsburgh doughnut that says he's doing well. Ray is at Fort Bragg, N. C, a bit chagrined because of the charming lassie he left behind. I've met her, and-'charming* is a weak word, believe me!" 
Two letters have come from Jim Spellman. Hie first was just a little late for the October dead­line, so both are included here. 
Items from Jim: Ted Hines is at Fort Bragg. Among the Haskins-Sells boys not already men­tioned are Bill Sturm and Fred Vogelwede. Babe Harqoardt is in the accounting department of a Chicago firm. Joe Gillespie works for Prest-o-lite in Indianapolis; Bill Carson is also in Indian­apolis. Paul Puglia is a theatrical man in Waynes­burg, Pa. And. finally some news of "the chin," Sammy Neild—he's at Fort Bragg, N. C. 
In his second letter, Jim had a very worthwhile bit of information. He said that Bishop O'Han visited Camp Croft, S.C, (that's where Jim is), and gave the sermon at a solemn pontifical high field Mass. Jim and a bunch of other N.D. men had a long chat with Bishop O'Hara. The fellows were introduced to Archbishop Cicognani, apostolic delegate to the U. S. Pictures were taken of the . group including, besides the others. Bishop Walsh and Brig. Gen. Patch, commanding officer of Camp Croft. 
Also—Hawley Van Swall is married; Larry Walsh is-to-be. Larry and Tom Hack are being transferred away from the New York branch by Haskins-Sells (is everyone working for that gang except me?). Ray Fidler is a U.S.C. law student Bill CUrk is at Bellevue Hospital. New York City, continuing medicine. 
A short note from Louisville's Bill Gorvey solves the problem of his whereabouts. Bill is at home, and he is working for the Reynolds Metals Co. (aluminum). He's a correspondent in the sales department. 
A well-constructed letter from Dick Ball came my way from out at Indiana University. Dick is after bis master's in economics there. He claims that there is a lot of grinding to be done before he finishes. 
From Dick's letter the information comes that "Toidiy" Dorm is at Camp Lee; Bill Cotter at Harvard Ensign School; and Jay Reynolds in the floating, not the flying, division of the Navy. (Note to Vem WitkowsU—Dick asks where you and your "huge ears" are these days.) 
That's .ill the dope from the dopes for this issue. Hopes are high for a flock of mail before December rolls around. 
The Notre Dame A I u m n u t 
RAYS OF SUPREME LAWGIVER 
(Continued from page 6) 

fleeting always the rays of the Supreme Lawgiver! 
The great Webster said in his address on "The Character of Washington:" "Other misfortunes may be borne and their effects overcome. It were but a trifle even if the walls of yonder Capitol were to crumble, if its lofty pillars should fall, and its gorgeous decorations be all covered by the dust of the valley. All these might be rebuilt. But who can reconstruct the fabric of demolished gov­ermnent? Who can raise again the well-proportioned columns of constitutional liberty? Who can frame together the skillful architecture which unites na­tional sovereignty with state rij^ts, in­dividual security and public prosperity? If these columns fall, they will be raised not again." 
It rests with you and your associates of the bar to enlighten the people, now befuddled in their thinking, to a realiza­tion of what bureaucratic government means. For what is needed are legal lights to shine, not when the world is bright, but when the world is dark, re­flecting always the rays of the Supreme Lawgiver! 
Yours is a noble calling, a distin­guished profession. People look to you for guidance in the temporal as they do to the priest in the spiritual. You are the alter ego in relation to your clients. They confide in you, they trust you, they look to you for guidance. That you real­ize your duties and responsibilities is at­tested by the fact that you gather here annually to ask Bivine guidance and strength in their fulfillment. But if you are to teach and defend our fellow man, if you are to discharge your duties faith­fully and honestly, permit me to suggest that you always keep before you the ne­cessity of growing spiritually in the knowledge and love of the Supreme Law­giver. 
Accordingly, nourish your faith con­stantly by prayer and the sacraments. Revive your hope by reflecting on the emptiness of this world and all its fleet­ing show. And let the charity of Christ always pervade your minds and hearts. For in the words of the inimitable Car­dinal Newman: "Times come and go and man wiU not believe, that that is. to be which is not yet, or that what now is only continues for a season, and is not eternity. The world passes, it is but a pageant and a scene: the lofty palace 
crnmUes, the busy dty is mot^ tiie ships of TarsUsh have sp»l away. On lieart and flesh death is eaming: the val is breaking. The end is the triaL" 
May yon meet the Supreme Lawgiver smiling! 
STUDENT NOTES 
(Oontiinied from past 14) 

13 and went to Chicago, home or else­where, bnt those freshmen and upper­classmoi who ronained on campus ex­perienced a singular thrill Foonder's Day, honoring Father Sorin, Oct 13 .. . No classes—and f mit cocktails to opoi the noon dinner . . . James O'Neal, S t Louis, Senior dass president established more precedents when he called together prospective June graduates—in October . . . And forgot to introduce himself... Chief discussion centered around the possibility of staging the Senior Ball during Senior Wedc rather than early in May as has been customary in the past . . . Season's scoop—announcement in October that Helen Jepson, soprano, would be guest soloist during Music Week, May 4, 1942. 
ELECTIONS­FOREIGN, SOUTHERN STYLE 
Club de la Raza, Spanish organization, made a quick sprint to get under the wire early with elections . . . Home towns sound like a league of nations get-together . . . Bamiro Perez, Cardenas, Cuba, is president . . . His aides are: Angel Gonzalez, Santandes, Spain, and Dallas, Tex.; Bamon Araujo, Cartagena, Colombia, S. A.; and Cesar Mnnecas, Havana, Cuba .. . Chief lecturer is Ed­uardo Aleayga, graduate student from Santiago, Chile, S. A. . . Not so far south, but down that way, the Old Do­minions—&om Virginia—selected John Bisese, Norfolk, president; Harry Me-Knight and George Kelly, both of Bich­mond, as secretary and treasurer. 
TABLE LAMPS IN LIBRARY 
Betting on increased usage of the library took a quick step upward with the installation of 20 new table lamps in the reference and periodical rooms... And fluorescent lighting in the card catalogue room . . . Plan is a tribute to the untiring work of John O'Dea, '41, of Brooklyn, N. Y., and Tea Dance repute, and Librarian Paul Byrne . . . The Met dub, campus organization of New York­ers, sponsored a special train east for the Army game . . . And already plans a Christmas Formal, Dec. 26, at the Coldnades Boom of the Essex House, New York. 
Ike OFFICIAL NOTRE DAME RING 
Heavily modeled on one shank of this massive ring is the tower and dome of the Administration Building. Below appears the ND monogram with crossed torches in the background, an emblem of the ideals and attainment of Notre Dame. The seal of the University stands out in striking relief on the other shank while below it crossed torches bear with those on the other side. 
Set in the oval lop is a genuine garnet, sapphire, or onyx framed by the letters "University of Notre Dame." 
The official Notre Dame ring is an impressive ring symbolizing the strength and dignity that is Notre Dame. 
Top View of the ofTici;iI Actual size •— viev\' sliow­rinji showing massive ef­injr dcsipn on the opp«>­fect and beauty of tlic .«ite shank from that dis­many faceted stone. played on the enIar;;o-
See finBcr size tape ment of- the illustration below. above. 
PRICES ON OFFICIAL RINGS 
No. 25841 (lightweight I OK) No. 29987 (sterling) 
Onyx, sardonyx, blue onyx, green onyx....$20.00 Onyx, sardonyx $ 9.75 
Synthetic blue spinel, tourmaline, syn­Ruby 12.25 thetic blue sapphire, synthetic ruby, 
Amethyst, topaz, garnet 15.00 
synthetic emerald 22.50 
The above prices are subject to the Garnet, genuine amethyst, topaz. 25.50 new taxes on jeweliy. 
FOU DETERM1NIN<; AND RECORDING FINGER .SIZE 
No. 25754 (regular weight I OK) 

Take a band of firm paper same size as rinjj size chart. 
Wrap it around the finger firmly at the second joint, or 
Onyx, sardonyx, blue onyx, green onyx.. 24.50 around the largest part of the finger if the joints arc not 
prominent. Lay it on the ring size chart to the riglit to 
get your exact size. 

Synthetic blue spinel, tourmaline, syn­thetic blue sapphire, synthetic ruby, 
Ring For Measuring Finger 
synthetic emerald 27.00 
Garnet, genuine amethyst, topaz. 30.00 
G 7 S 'J 10 11 
SEND yOUR ORDER TO 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Office NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 








