The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
HAWAII—Universal Notre Dame Night in Alohaland, held in April at the Pacific Club, featured a talk on the 1961 theme of personal f responsibility by Most Rev. James Sweeney (seated, center), Bishop of Honolulu. 
Vol. 38  JUNE, 1961  No.  3  
JAMES  E. ARMSTRONG, '25,  Editor  
JOHN F. LAUGHLIN, '48, Managing Editor  
f"^^  
CHAPTER I—U.N.D. NIGHT '61 First installment of stories and pictures on 38th Annual Universal Notre Dame Night on pp. 14-51,  NOTRE  
CATHOLIC HIGHER EDUCATION IN 20th CENTURY AMERICA Father Heshurgh's "Atlantic City" address, pp. 3-5.  DAMi:  
1961 CLASS REUNION WEEK END Program on the eve of the event, pp. 7-8.  ALUMNUS  

COACH KUHARICH and Mascot "Mike" (right) watch "Yankee" Nick Buoniconti, Springfield, Mass., and "Rebel" Norb Roy, Baton Rouge, La., open spring practice as co-captains for 1961, Civil War Centennial Year and Notre Dame's 73rd football season. 

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS* 
SdUtorM Comment 
from your Alumni Secretary 

In pursuit of our theme of Univer­sal Nottc Dame Night — Personal Re­sponsibility— (and it \ras much more than just a theme for that occasion), may I enlist your thinldng of the im­portance of a major ingredient of many of our programs, YOU. 
Webster says that an alumnus is "A member of a school or college class that has been graduated." The word is derived from a Latin word, "to nour­ish." This is the basis of our policy as an Association — membership open to all graduates, and all members of Classes which have been graduated. 
The other phase we have assiuned constantly, and evidently understated, is that you were also "nourished" by Notre Dame. 
I have been involved in the pro­grams of the tremendously effective and significant work of the American Alum­ni Council, in its acceleration of the organization of alumni in all our col­lie s and universities for ma.ximum benefits. 
In this field, and it reduces quickly to our own Notre Dame pattern, it is becoming increasingly clear that organ­ization has in many ways been construc­tive. But in many other ways it has permitted indi\'iduals to "abdicate their persona] responsibility" to such organ­ization. 
YOU, as an alumnus nourished by Notre Dame, are the basic measure of Notre Dame's success. 
To reflect this nourishment in your individual life, your intellect, your will, your spiritual and cultural activity, you have an inescapable responsibility to your literal alma mater, "nourishing mother." 
As you reflect your training for com­jjetence in the various fields that Notre Dame offers, you reflect a personal responsibility to the law, to engineer­ing, to business and industry, to the arts, to medicine and science, that can­not in justice be abdicated to an Alum­ni Association, or a Bar Association, or a Chamber of Commerce, or a Code of Ethics in the entertainment world. 
As you reflect this conscious ability in the application of your talents to 
2 Voire Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 
the problems of public responsibility, you dbcharge a personal responsibility 
— which is at the same time a public responsibilitj' — to the society which has, from the beginnings of America, fostered a below-cost system of higher education as an essential provision for the proper training of leadership for a free society. You cannot in individual conscience or justice abdicate your re­sponsibilities to political parties, school boards, philanthropic organizations, or fraternal groups. 
All of us in higher education are sincerely disturbed by the fact that only 22% of national alumni give en­dorsement of the higher educational system by financial contributions an­nually toward its support within its tradition. 
Two things disturb us — one the necessity that this low figure puts on all of us for intensive and continuous appeals for increased financial support (even at Notre Dame where our par­ticipation has been much more reward­ing). But the other is a fear that the corollary may be that in all the other areas of responsibility, alumni partici­pation may show an equal, though less measurable, abdication of personal re­sponsibility. 
There is, unhappily, in the state of our economics, our politics, our liter­ature, our morals, and our social prog­ress, and in education itself, much to justify the fear that our great provi­sion for educated leadership of a free society has met with something far less than its total mobilization in a time of crisis. 
I hope from this thinking with you that you \n\\ regroup your own thoughts, and realize how much im­provement could be involved if each of us felt this direct personal respon­sibility. Listen, consciously, to how many of your educated friends will fall back on the familiar "why don't they?" when what they should be say­ing to the world — and answering in something than more than rhetoric — is "why don't we?" 

Officers 

JOHN C. O'CONNOR, '38 Honorary President WALTER L. FLEMING, JR., '40 President PAUL J. GUSHING, '31.J^und Vice-President JAMES J. BYRNE, '43 Club Vice-President 
W. EDMUND SHEA, '2i..Class Vice-President JAMES E. ARMSTRO.NG, '25.— _ 
Executive Secretary 


Directors to 1962 

JAMES J. BYRNE, '43 Byrne Plywood Co. Royal Oak, Michigan 
PAUL J. CUSHI.NG, '31 • Hydraulic Dredging Co. Oakland, California 
WALTER L. FLEMING, JR., '40 Fleming & Sons, Inc. 
P.O.
 Box 1291, Dallas, Texas 

W.
 EDMUND SHEA, '23 Third National Bank Bldg. Dayton, Ohio 



Directors to 1963 

MAURICE CARROLL, '19 5743 Dehnar Blvd. St. Louis 12, Missouri 
GEORGE L. CO.S'NOR, '48 209 S. LaSalle St., Rm. 716 • Chicago 4, Illinois 
WILLIAM P. MAHONEY, JR., '38 612 Arizona Bank Bldg. Phoenix, Arizona 
HARRY J. MEHRE, '22 686 Greenwood Ave., N.E. 
Atlanta 6, Georgia 

Directors to 1964 

JOHN P. DEMPSEY, '49 Kidder, Peabody & Co. 123 S. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY, '50 4909 34th Avenue, S. ^ Minneapolis, Minnesota " 
WILLIAM H. FALLON, '37 18 Boston Post Rd. Larchmont, New York 
OLIVER H. HUNTER, '43 F.B.I., P.O. Box 23, New Castle, Pennsylvania 

Chairmen of the 1961 Committees 
WALTER FLEMING Executive JAMES BYRNE Club Activities 
W. EDMUND SHEA Class Activities PAUL CUSHI.VG 
Alumni Fund, Foundation and Gifts JAMES J. BYRNE Preparatory Schools JOHN DEMPSEY, % 
Placement and Job Counseling 

W. EDMUND SHEA Inter-Alumni Affairs WILLIAM MAHONEY, JR 
prestige and Public Relations 

MAURICE CARROLL 
Meligion and Citizenship 

W. EDMUND SHEA AND JAMES BYRNE 
dominations HARRY MEHRE Mudget and Finance WILLIAM MAHONEY, JR. Resolutions
Tills nugaziiie is published bl'mODtUy by 
the Unlvenlty of Kotzc Dame, Notre 
Dame, Ind. Entered as second dasi mat> 
ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Post Office, Notre 
Dame, Ind. under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. save that of being willing should the 


'Catholic Higher Education in Twentieth-Century America 
The Much Quoted (and More Misquoted) Address Before the National Catholic Education Association Con­vention, April, 1961 
, by REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C. 
'T'HERE is a theme to what I have •*• to say today. I am attempting to discuss the objectives of Catholic Higher Education in Twentietli Cen­tury America. One might be expected to begin by referring to the seeming­ly timeless classic on Catholic higher learning: Cardinal Newman's "Idea of a University," and to discourse, as he did, upon theology as it relates to other branches of knowledge, and they to ^theology. One might tlien view knowl­
*edge as an end in itself, or view it in relation to learning, professional skill or religion. One would, of course, con­clude, as Newman did, by discussing the duties of the Church towards knowledge. 
I submit to you tliat this is beauti­ful theory that neither Newman nor anyone else has ever realized in practice in any institution of Catliolic higher learning since he wrote. Newman may well have given us the Irish Mountain ^o p of vision. Our efforts, however, must be measured against the reality of life on the great American plain. Our objectives in Catholic higher edu­cation today must have relevance to a new age in a new land. Anything less would be both unworthy and dis­honest. The dieory may well thrill us. The practice is that witli which we must live and earn our daily bread. Let the objectives by all means be high. But remember that to be useful, they must be attainable. I submit again tliat , Newman's never were such, and indeed ^eve r have been attained in any full measure either here or abroad. May I be even more foolhardy by saying that Newman's dream does not even fit the frame wthin which we must place the 
present  day  objectives  of  Catholic  
higher  educa tion.  
Before  I  completely  alienate  the  

audience who, like myself, have prob­ably long since canonized Newman, may I state the simple theme that underlies everything that I shall sub­sequently say. My theme is perhaps li>est expresseid as the "ancient beauty, ever old and ever neiv" that S t Au­
gustine saw as a good description of 
the Church herself. 
^Vhat this theme really means is that there are two objectives that Catholic higher education must pursue simul­taneously today: to hold to the perma­nent, unchanging values that have made our higher learning something special; and to adapt to the djTiamic changing realities of our times which need these unchanging values if rapid change and explosive new realities are to have any dimension of meaning and direction. In other words. Catholic higher education must be neither a dinosaur nor a changeling, but a vital and vigorous force in our times, both ancient and contemporary, both con­servative and radical, both traditional and modem. Either value to the e-x­clusion of the other will eidier date us on the one hand, or make us feebly imitative and shabbily contemporary on the odter. We must cherish both values. We must indeed reflect the "ancient beauty, ever old and ever new." 
Perhaps the best perspective is gained by taking a cursor)' glance at the origins and development of Catho­lic higher learning. One cannot speak of beginnings without that inevitable return to the Gospels, to the person of Jesus Christ, yesterday, today, and to­morrow, ever the same. Despite all our manifold deficiencies across all ages, ^»'e derive our most basic dignity from our striwng for continuity with the Divine Teacher. It is the truest of truisms that all Christian teaching be­gins \vith Christ and must be faithful to His Spirit and His Word, clearly, simply, and plainly manifest in the pages of the New Testament. 
Then there were the Fathers of the Church, of East and ^Vest, Greek and Latin, who were in their own persons as in their writings the best exemplars of Christian higher learning, especially the martyr-scholar-saints who died for what they professed, as well as the confessor-scholar-saints, who like us be­lieved, professed and taught without the added testimony of martyrdom. 
occasion arise. These Gredc and Latin Fathers imited in their peisons the simple holiness of the Gospel with all the wisdom of philosophy and theology. May we do as well! 
f N a later age, the silent, working 
-'-Benedictine monks lit a candle in 
the darkness, raised their voices only to 
praise God, and in many hushed mo­
nasUc cells throughout darkened Eu­
rope, copied and glossed the great 
books that, now preserved, make possi­
ble much of our dialogue, conversa­
tion, and exchange of views with the 
otherwise dead past 
All of this ancient classical and 
Christian learning was institutionalized 
by the Church in the Middle Ages, in 
the foundation of famous universities 
like Oxford and Cambridge, Paris, 
Bologna, and Pavia. From a contem­
porary point of view, when Christian 
higher education is often adjudged as 
doctrinaire, "safe," and even stodigly 
conformist, one might well wonder at 
the wild turbulence of life that char­
acterized these first Catholic univer­
sities in mediaeval times where there 
reigned the broadest kind of academic 
freedom for the •ivildest of views and 
the goriest of academic battles: of 
Bernard against Abelard, of Thomas 
Aquinas against the Christian Nomi­
nalists and Arabic skeptics, of friars 
and monks against the secular clergy. 
That these were lively intellectual 
places and times is a gross understate­
ment. But from all of this open con­
flict of ideas emerged the splendor of 
truth. This is the glorious tradition that 
we may be proud of in Catholic higher 
education. We are proud, but all too 
tame today. 
In a still later age, the Jesuits and the counter Reformation gave us a form of classical liberal education and a Christian catechesb that still exerts its influence. St. Peter Canisius becomes the model of the Christian teacher. Blessed Edmund Campion and St Francis Xavier become romantic he­roes to long generations of Catholic boys. Nothing bad in this — but not the ultimate answer to everything yet to come either. 
The time of toleration after the French Revolution saw a new element bom to strengthen the long tradition of Christian higher learning: the emer­gence of new teaching congregations of priests and brothers and sisters, and the later emergence for the first time of substantial ntunbers of well-educated laity dedicated to the apostolate of higher education. Now to come borne, to our land and our times. 
Priests, brothers, sisters, laymen, and laywomen — in American Gatholk 
Notre Dame Alumnus, ]tau, 1961 
higher education. Just to say the words summarizes volumes of histor)', sacri­fice, and achievement. 
I might well digress here for a mo­ment to signal out die work of tlie nuns, for all of us know the price diat die good Sisters have paid for tlie uni­versal affection and high esteem diat they enjoy: dieir sacrificial practice of povert)', the total and generous gift of their lives and talents for which even "dedication" is too pale and over­worked a word. 
This long tradition of Cadiolic liigher education does not represent one long series of towering peaks like die serried ranks of snow-capped mountians diat form the Soudi Ameri­can Cordillera. Ratiier it is a historj' of heights and depdis. Almost every age has had some proud peaks, but diere have also been in every age periods of failure and depression. Some failures have been forced upon us in die long rub and wear of religious strife. But, let us admit it frankly, much failure has been our own fault: of pei"sons and institutions, often enough through laziness, lack of wsion or die mercenan' spirit, sometimes through abysmal me­diocrity and just plain bad teaching and bad learning. The qualit)' of edu­cation is ver)' much akin to die quality of life, and tliis is true of education by tile Church, as well as by die State. When virtue generally declines, the quality of education goes down with it. 
So much for tiie depths. What of the heights. Perhaps die most impressive of the heights is the sheer age of die tra­dition. No teacliing agency in the world, no nation, nor state, nor Board of Education of any kind can compare with the Catholic tradition in the lengthy reach of teaching experience. Having admitted seniority here, let us practice the virtues of mature age: the calm •vvTsdom, the steady purpose, the perspective of tolerance and patience amid enduring efforts to improve con­standy. For whatever else one might say, this much is certain: God is not served well by mediocrity. And let us also avoid die vices of advanced age and seniority: spiteful envy of other good efforts, the suspicious and almost instinctive fear of youtii and youthful ideas, tiie concrete fixation with the status quo and the timid failure to respond to new situations and die in­evitable new challenges of every new age. 
In other words, to be true to its twin objectives. Catholic higher education must indeed reflect "ancient beauty, ever old and ever new." 
When one has taken tiiis brief and necessarily kaleidoscopic glance at the Histoiy of Catholic higher learning, 
4 Notre Dafne Alumnus, June, 1961 

several reflections occur quite simply and quite honestly to anyone who thinks of tliis long history and of our present place in it, as die current segment of American higher education. 
I trust you \\A\\ allow me to share my candid reflections widi you. You may well have different and perhaps more valid reactions of your own. No matter. Since I must speak and, for what they are worth, here are my re­flections, to be accepted or rejected as you will. 
Tf IRST, may I say tiiat I have always -*- shared die honest pride tiiat legiti­mately attaches to a proud intellectual heritage. I have likewise always been uneasy at the correlative pattern of 
looking backward more often than for­ward, of holding to die tradition of what has been, radier than striving mightily to make tiie traditional values more relevant, more vital, more mean­ingful today. I have always been chary of so many intellectual giants of an­otiier day, often many centuries past, while tile crying need is for men and women of equal wisdom and vision today. 
PERSONALLY, I have no ambition 
to be a mediaeval man. I suspect diat St. Thomas in his day had no hankering to be classified as belonging to die golden age of the Latin Fatiiers of the Church, then long past. AVhat­ever die value of the various ages of Catholic higher learning, diere is only one age whose value we can in any measure influence: our own. We can see ourselves as part of a long tradition. We can measure the vitality of our cur­rent contribution against die intellec­tual contribution of other ages, but one factor is absolutely essential to any judgment or any comparison: the vitality of Catholic higher learning in any particular age must be viewed mainly in relation to its intellectual.in­fluence and effectiveness in that partic­ular age. It is futile comfort for a Cadiolic university in the second half of the Twentieth Century in the United States of America to point \vitii pride to die lively intellectuality and critical vitality of the Cadiolic Univer­sity of Paris in mediaeval France. Let tile dead burj' their dead. We of the living have our work at hand. It is vital, intellectual, and exciting work diat only a university can do. Perhaps die most exciting feature of all is the \'alid presumption that some of the work can most fruitfully be undertaken only by a Catholic institution of higher learning in the best tradition of the peak eras of Christian wisdom. 
May I first be a littie negative, and say clearly what I do not mean. The task for the Catholic higher learning will not be done if our philosophersQ and theologians continue to live among, work with, and e.xclusively speak to people and problems long since dead and buried. This inhabitation of a nev­er-never world by those who speak for Christian wisdom would be bad enough in a day wtiiout problems of its own. But today we live in an age of monu­mental and unprecedented problems. This is no day in which to nit pick among die problems of the past. Here is an age crjing for die light and guid­ance of Christian wisdom. What must future judges think of us if we live inf ] the most exciting age of science ever known to mankind, and philosophize mainly about Aristotle's physics. AVe live today in the threatening shadow of cosmic thermonuclear destruction and often theologize about the morality of war as though the spear had not been superseded by the ICBM. 
If we are to create a peak for die Catholic liigher learning today, two essential requirements at least are crj'stal clear: One, we must understand the present day world in which we.-, live, vnxh. all of die forces and realities'­that make it what it isj and, two, diose two best and most unique assets we have, philosophy and theology, must begin to be more relevant to die ago­nizing, very real, and monumental problems of our times. Now diat I have tliat frog cleared from my throat, may I address myself to the challenging vision of what Cadiolic higher learn­ing could do to ransom our times and justify our survival. 
' I 'HE key word for die task, as I see 
•*• it, is mediation. One could spend much time discussing this word, a good and priestly word, a word that speaks of the innermost reality of the Incarna­tion. Catholic higher education can, in our times, perform an important media­torial function. Catholic higher educa­tion stands for sometliing definite, de­finable, and, I trust, sometiiing true, good, beautiful, and timeless. The world is disjointed today in so many wa}'s, fragmented into so many disparate parts A, that one might look far to find a more inspiring, more important, or more central task for die Cadiolic higher learning dian the e-xalted work of mediation in our times. 
Allow me to illustrate this work of intellectual mediation. Many of our most pressing domestic problems today arise from the fact that we live in a multi-faceted, pluralistic society. How urgent it is that some institution at­tempt to bring together in more fruit­ful unity the separated and often an­tagonistic elements of this pluralisti0 society. Economically there is the plu­ralism of labor and management. So­
0cially there is the pluralism of the two races, white and .colored, with regional sub-problems for Mexicans and Puerto Ricans. Religiously there is the plu­ralism of Protestants, Catholics, and Jews, or perhaps more fundamentally the basic dichotomy between the re­ligious and the secularists. Intellectual­ly tiiere is the pluralism of science and technology vis-a-vis tlie humanities — the C. P. Snow described dilemma of two great intellectual currents that neither understand or speak to eacli other despite the fact tliat they live 
j j daily side-by-side in our universities. 
What are we doing to mediate, philosophically and tlieologically, as only the Catholic higher learning can, between these various extremes tliat make up the divided fabric of our society? Here is an objective worthy of our most talented, most devoted, most inspired efforts. There is nothing humdrum, nothing prosaic about diese most anguishing problems of man in the Twentieth Centur)'. Their solutions require the highest tlieological and 

^philosophical principles, die deepest empirical studies, the most imaginative approaches, the most understanding di­rectives — but what are we doing to bring intellectual and moral light to these regions of darkness. 
^Ve are doing somediing about la­bor-management problems, but mostly on a pragmatic, non-intellectual level. As to Civil Rights and equal opportu­nity for all races, we have been almost universally destitute of intellectual leadership in our colleges and universi­

•ties. I know of no research in tiiis area. Factually, the worst educational prob­lem at the moment is in a section of the country predominandy Catholic. Despite the central Catholic doctrine of the Mystical Body, the pronounce­ments of our Holy Fathers and our hierarchy, there are Cadiolic schools and Catliolic parishes and Catholic lay organizations, and Catholic orders and Catholic neighborhoods that do not only not welcome, but which positively repel Negroes from tiieir midst. Is there 
^ a work of mediation needed here, a gentle touch of Christian wisdom and understanding to tr)' to ascertain how this can be and what might be done about it? And who will do diis work 
• of mediation, theologically, philosoph­ically, and empirically, if not our in­stitutions of higher learning, some of whom might begin die work by ad­
1 mitting qualified Negro students, just to create the, proper atmosphere for this study. ' 
I • And what is tlie work of mediation 
I in the field of religious pluralism. Again iftwe live in an ecumenical age..Our . Holy Father says to-a large group of Jewish visitors to Rome: "I am Jo­seph, your brother." How many of us have e.xtended that welcome within our institutions and have tried to un­derstand our differences in our re­search and studies. A new Ecumenical Council looms before us. In Europe, for many years since they were brought together in the crucible of common suffering during the war, Protestant and Catholic theologians have dis­cussed their differences and merged their common strengths against their common enemies of secularism and Communism. \Vhy have we been so timid here in our American institutions of higher learning? Must we always be the last to initiate anything imagina­tive and intellectual, the first only in those obvious causes hke anti-Com­munism, super patriotism, and old clothing drives. Here is another urgent work of mediation Ions: overdue. 
T HESITATE to undertake the discus­-*• sion of the intellectual mediation needed between science, technology, and the humanities, because here I easily become vehement, almost in an apoplectic manner. ^Ve took the ^vTong turn in science as far back as Galileo, and while the roadmaps have been officially corrected since, we are still lagging far behind die main flow of traffic in the area of science and tech­nolog)'. I need not document this as­sertion for there has already been enough public breast-beating in the matter. Besides, I am interested here not so much in diagnosing the past as in charting a present day and future course. That the roads of science and technology may lead to fruitful human goals is obvious enough to anyone who understands or appreciates the new vistas opened up by science and tech­nolog)'. Science is our potent key to the noble modem human quest to elimi­nate illiteracy, needless poverty and squalor, hunger, disease, and homeless­ness in our times. Science can help man achieve die basic material conditions essential to a life worthy of man's inner and God-given dignity. Science can have true cultural and spiritual over­tones, too, may indeed contribute mightily to the good life, if only we provide for it the ultimate meaning, di­rection, and human significance that it must seek outside itself. The least de­mand, however, must be this: that we respect and truly understand modem science in all its implications, that we do not continue to neglect it in our schools or treat it as a threat rather than a God-given blessing, for all.diat science finds, God has given — the natural richnesses, the energ)',. the order, the magnificent vista from \vith4 in the atom-to the outermost reaches 
of this magnificent universe that is ours. The main reason that we have not mediated in the Catholic higher learning between science and the hu­manities is that we have generally neg­lected science and have not particularly distinguished ourselves in the humani­ties either. Perhaps the latter fault is greater, for here was our trae and most obvious heritage. We must redouble our efforts today in both areas if they are mutually to enrich each other in our total perspective of higher learn­ing. ^Vithout this particular mediation bet\veen science and the humanities, and all it implies, there really will be no truly significant or relevant Catho­lic higher learning in our times. These are hard words, but I believe, true ones. Qui potest capere, capiat. 
' I *HERE is another whole area of •*• mediation that is open today to the Catholic higher leaming, if we would find die courage to climb the peak. I refer here to the opportunities for in­tellectual mediation in a pluralistic world. Catholics belonging to a uni­versal Church should be at home in intemational affairs, but I fear that the American Catholic spirit, somehow untouched by our higher leaming, has traditionally been characterized by a narrow parochial spirit, an isolationist complex, an anti-United Nations urge. What has the Catholic higher leaming in America done to mediate under­standing of the great world cultures, the important emerging areas — even the Catholic ones like Latin America 
— the dichotomy between cold war and Intemational Law. Here is a chal­lenge that we can hardly avoid and hope to be relevant in our times. 
By now, I am sure that you all see, upon reflection, that here is much of Newman in modem dress. May I con­clude by hoping that all engaged in the important work of our Catholic colleges and universities see the im­portance and the urgency of my dual thesis: first, that the Catholic higher leaming must ever strive to make the ancient wisdom timely today, relevant to our current problems, and, secondly, that the road to thb accomplishment, the simple word that sums up a modem and thrilling objective for the Catholic higher leaming in our times is media­tion — mediation that understands both extremes that must be brought together, mediation based upon em­pirical current fact, as well as time­less principle, mediation that is not afraid to blaze new trails in new wil­dernesses: that both God and man may be well served in our times and in this new world that so needs new applications of the ancient Christian wisdom. .. . 
Notre Dame Alummts, June, \l$.Sl_ $ 


f^BAAPL 0/ the 
NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL 
-1 , v -^.i'/ 
ihM 
NATURAL LAW FORUM 
Mr. John T. Noonan, Jr., has been ap­pointed associate professor of law and edi­tor-in-chief of the Natural Law Forum. After receiving a B..A.. summa cum laude from Har\-ard College in 1946, Mr. Noonan spent a year in graduate studies at Cam­bridge University in England. From there he went to the Catholic University of America where he earned a Ph.D. in Phi­losophy. He then entered the Han-ard Law School and was graduated magna cum laude. In 1954-55 he was a special staff member of the National Securit}- Council. For the last five years he has been prac­ticing law in Boston with the firm of Her­rick. Smith, Donald, Farley and Ketchum. 
Mr. Noonan is the author of The Scho­lastic Analysis of Usury, published by the Hari-ard University Press in 1957, and of numerous articles and book reviews. 


LAW HONOR BANQUET 
The President of the American Bar As­sociation, Mr, Whitney North Sejinour of New York City, was the featured speaker at the Law Honor Banquet on April 26. 
This annual affair affords an opportunity to salute the members of the graduating class and, at the same time, to recognize the achievements of all members of the student body who have distinguished them­selves in one way or another. In addition, as last year, it was the occasion for a joint observance of LAW T>.\Y, US.A. by the Notre Dame Law School and the St. Joseph County Bar Association. 
Mr. Seymour's predecessor as President of the American Bar .•\ssociation, Mr. John 

D. Randall of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, ad­dressed last year's Law Honor Banquet and his successor, Mr. John C. Satterfield of Jackson, Mississippi, who will be installed as President of the American Bar Associa­tion at the annual meeting this summer, will be the featured speaker in 1962. 
Mr. Seymour spoke on "The Rule of Law as a Sword Against the Communists." In introducing Mr. Se>'mour, Dean O'Meara touched on the same theme, pointing out that we have a job to do and that it won't be done by taking it eas>-: 
"Freedom is an oddity. As Ambassador Stevenson has pointed out, 'The natural government of man is ser\'itude. Tyranny is the normal pattern of government. . . .' The overwhelming majority of all the men who have inhabited this globe were bom, lived and died under the rule of a despot. What is more, they accepted this as a mat­ter of course; they did not yearn for free­dom. Save in the West freedom has not been even an ideal and is not an ideal to­day. And even in the West it has been highly prized only here and there, now and again. 
"So the cards are stacked against the West in our contest with the Communists in the uncommitted countries. What do we have to offer? A commodity most people in the world care little or nothing about. That gives the Communists a tremendous advantage. But they do not rest on that ad\'antage. The Communists' assault on civilization is dynamic, purposeful and dedi­cated. On the basis of his own on-the-spot observations. Ambassador Stevenson has re­ported that 'no effort, no dedication, no sacrifice is too great that may help realize the Communist party's goals. . . .' 
"Meanwhile, we arc preoccupied with a shorter work day, a shorter work week, fringe benefits and early retirement. We want to make things easy. 'Life \vithout effort,' says Admiral Rickover, 'appears to be our national goal.' (.Address at The Uni­versity of Notre Dame, February 22, 1961). We hear a lot about being soft on Commu­nism. I suggest it is much more hazardous to be soft on ourselves. 
"Communism, as I remarked on a prior occasion, is the only fighting faith in the world today. Our ideal has become ease and securit)-. Mr. Khrushchev has boasted that the Communists will bury us. Can we be confident that he was wrong? 
"This is not a challenge that will go away if we ignore it. It confronts us with the hardest kind of competition. Nothing will enable us to meet that competition but the hardest kind of work, and a strength of will and purpose at least equal to that of an implacable enemy. 
"Today we are making the future. We are deciding right now the fate of the next generation — and the next, and the next. I do not see how the event can be any­thing but bad unless we rediscover the joy of work, which, in the words of Jacques Barzon, is characterized by 'passion in work and for work. .. . (It is that which) gives it its dramatic quality, that makes the outcome a possession of the worker, that becomes habit-forming and indeed obses­sional. Of all the depri\-ations that modem life imposes on intellectual man, the aban­donment of' work is the crudest, for all 
other occupations kill time and drain the 
spirit, whereas work fills both, and in the |» 
doing satisfies at once love and aggression. 
That is the sense in which work is 'fun,' 
with an irresistible appeal to man's love of 
difficulty conquered. . .' (The House of 
Intellect, p. 125.) 
"We need to shake off what Admiral 

Burke has described as 'the danger .. . of 
not wanting to e-xcel'; we need to abandon 
our devotion to the cult of mediocrity, de­
fined by Admiral Halsey as 'an unforgivable 
sin.' We could use some of the spirit of 
the French paratroopers, whose so-called 
prayer is said to ask for a difficult life. 
"Is it too late? Are we too much ad­dicted to the easy way? Is there time to recover the vigor, the enterprise and re-'), sourcefulness, the eager acceptance of long hours, and long odds, which characterized our ancestors who tamed the wilderness? A knowledgeable bookmaker, I suggest, would refuse an even-money bet. 
"These gloomy reflections seem to me appropriate for L.AW DAY because, if the West must bow to the Communist tyranny, the Rule of Law, which we celebrate to­day, will disappear from the face of the earth." 
SYMPOSIUM 

A Sjnnposium on "Next Steps to Extend the Rule of Law" was held at the Notre Dame Law School on .•\pril 29. The panel'] on that occasion consisted of the following distinguished Iaw)-ers and scholars: Charles 
5. Rhyne, Washington 6, D.C., Chairman of the American Bar Association's Commit­tee on World Peace Through Law; Profes­sor Arthur N. Holcombe, Chairman of the Commission to Study the Organization of Peace, New York 17, N.Y.; Dean Louis H. Mayo, Graduate School of Public Law, The George Washington Universit)-, Washington 
6, D.C.; Professor Stanley D. Metzger, Georgetown University Law Center, Wash­ington I, D.C.; Professor Wallace McClure, World Rule of Law Center, Duke Univer-/ sity, Durham, N.C. ", 
The papers presented at the Symposium will be published in a special issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer which, it is antici­pated, will have wide distribution. 

NOTRE DAME LAWYER 

Mr. George P. McAndrews of Clinton, Iowa, a graduate of Notre Dame's College of Engineering, has been elected Editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer and has appointed the following editorial board: .'\ssociate Editor, Joseph P. Summers of St. Paul, Minnesota; Articles Editor, George A. Pel­letier, Jr., of Midland, Texas; Case Editor, r James J. Harrington of Brookl>Ti, New York; ' Note Editor, Michael E. Phenner of Men­asha, Wisconsin; Legislation Editor, Ray­mond W. Brown of Jersey Cit)-, New Jersey; and Managing Editor, Stanley B. Nelson of Philadelphia, Pa. 

CONFERENCE OF LAW REVIEWS 

Five representatives of the Notre Dame Lawyer attended the Seventh Annual Con­ference of Law Reviews in Madison, Wis­consin, on April 7 and 8. The Lawyer delegates were as follows: Mr. Thomas L. Shaffer, Editor for 1960-61; Mr. George P. McAndrews, Editor for 1961-62; Mr. Jo­seph P. Summers, Associate Editor for 1961-1 
(Continued on page II) 

Notre Dame Alumnus, June, I96I 
THE MARCH IS ON to the 

.NOTRE DAME CLASS REUNION WEEK END 


JUNE 9-10-11 

FRIDAY, JUNE 9 GENERAL REGISTRATION — 
Law Building 
One fee, $20, will be collected at registration which will cover all general expenses and, except for those notified otherwise. Class expenses. 
Those who have pre-registered will also report to the Law Building for receipt and identification. All who submit the general fee in advance will be assured of location with their Class. 


CLASS REGISTRATION AND ROOM 
Registration will be in the halls as listed. 
HEADQUARTERS:  
Class of  1911  Alumni  Hall  
^Class of  1916  Alumni  Hall  
Class of  1921  Alumni  Hall  
Class of  1926  Alumni  Hall  
Class of  1931  Howard  Hall  
Class of  1936  Lyons  Hall  
Class of  1941  Morrissey  Hall  
Class of  1946  Dillon  Hall  
^Class of  1951  Morrissey  Hall  
Class of  1956  Dillon  Hall  



iveeke..! GOLF TOURNAMEHT 
* Begins FRIDAY 

SPECIAL MONOGRAM GOLF DAY« (Monogram Club Only) Thursday, June 8 (all day) 
MONOGRAM CLUB HEADQUARTERS Alumni Hall 
MONOGRAM COCKTAIL PARTY, DINNER, ANNUAL MEETING 
6:30 p.m., Thursday Morris Inn 
•Go/f Course Regulations specify long trousers 


CLASS EVENTS 
Scheduled on Friday Night (tentative locations) 
1911  Golden  Jubilee  Class  
1916  Class  
1921  Class  Tradirions Dinner  
1926  Class  MORRIS  INN  

1931 Class Dinner MORRIS INN AAAHOGANY ROOM 
1936 Silver Jubilee Class Dinner NEW NORTH DINING HALL 
1941 Class Dinner 
MORRISSEY LAWN 

1946 Class Dinner MORRIS INN GOLFER'S LOUNGE 
1951 Class Buffet NEW NORTH DINING HALL 
1956 Class Dinner DILLON COURT 
Ifotre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 


SATURDAY. JUNE 10 
CLASS MASSES — Hall Chapels (time and celebrant to be posted in Law School and Halls). 
CLASS PICTURES — Library (time to be posted in Law School and Halls). 
tbi 
 Continues All Day. 

GOLF TOURNAMENT — 
'!]) 
PRESIDENT'S LUNCHEON for the 25-Year Class — North Dining Hall. 
BOX LUNCHES for other Reunion Classes Saturday noon at Halls. 
TOURS — I. A. O'Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building, Nieuwiand Science Hail, LaFortune Student Center, Saturday afternoon. 
*Go// Course Regulations specify long trousers 

CONTINUING EDUCATION-1961 • 
11 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Law and Engineering Auditoriums. (Subject, time and location to be posted.) 
As a remote preparation for a projected Summer Alumni University, 
one-hour programs are being prepared on a variety of general topics 
of contemporary interest in the fields of the humanities, politics, busi­
ness, etc. In most cases these programs will replace the traditionar^ 
Open Houses of the Colleges. Faculty and curriculum are under the 
direction of Dr. Willis Nutting and Dr. Frank Keegan. 
LAW ASSOCIATION — Annual reception in the Law School Saturday afternoon. 
ANNUAL ALUMNI BANQUET 
— Saturday evening — North Dining Hall.^, 
Addresses by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of the Univer­sity; Mr. Walter L. Fleming, Jr., President of the Alumni Association; etc. 
SUNDAY, JUNE 11 

ANNUAL ALUMNI MASS 
— Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes (Sacred Heart Church in case of inclement weather) 
Notre.Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 

NOTRE DAME'S JOHN ZAHM, by Ralph 
E. Weber, M.S.'SO, PhJ>.'56 (University 
.NOTRE DAME BOOKS 
of Notic Dame Press. $3). 
(Just a repeat of principle: The ALUMNUS if not a book review chan­nel, but rather an effort to keep Notre Dame alumni aware of the growing number of books by or about Notre Dame men which are coming from the presses of the country, as a news serv­ice. Reviews and evaluations can usually be secured through regular literary channels. Ed.) 
I THE IMAGINATION OF DIS­ASTER, by J. A. \Vard, A.B., '52 (University of Nebraska Press, $3.00) Ward, an assistant professor of English at the U. of Southwestern Louisiana, holds an M.A. and a Ph.D. from Tulane University. The publica­tion of his present book was assisted by a grant from the Ford Foundation. 
The book deals widi "Evil in the fiction of Henry James," and in it Prof. Ward takes exception "to the 
k commonplace remark that James is a 'pure' novelist. He sees him as a man profoundly aware of the crisis of civili­zation and culture... The subject 'evil' b a means to an end; it serves as a new focus for an explication of James's fiction. ... " 
« « * 

SIGHT, A Handbook for Laymen, by Roy O. Scholz, M.D., B.S., '35. (Doubleday $3.50). 
_ In this volume. Dr. Scholz, an emi­
"nent ophthalmologist "presents a clear, concise discussion of the eye, its func­tion, structure, and the diseases to which it is subject . . . Dr. Scholz dis­cusses the psychological factors of par­tial blindness, early diagnosis of eye trouble in children, new optical aids, and the controversy of contact lenses ..." 
The author is president of the Eye Section of the Baltimore City Medical Society, as well as Chief of Service of 
J the Department of Ophthalmology in several hospitals in and around Balti­more. He is Ophthalmologist-in­charge of the Johns Hopkins Dis­pensary. 
AMERICAN CATHOLICISM AND THE INTELLECTUAL IDEAL, A Collection of Viewpoints, (Apple­ton-Century-Crofts, $2.75). This paperback collection is distinc­
tive because of the presence in its 
P pages of a substantial number of Notre Dame authors: Joseph Breig, '28; James M. Campbell, Ph.D., '55; G. K. Chesterton, LL.D., '31; James L. Cul­lather, '40; Lloyd Davis, M.A., '59; Msgr. John Tracy Ellis, LL.D., '57; William J. Grace, '36; Martin Mc­Laughlin, M.A., '41, Ph.D., '48; Mai5­ton Morse, LL.D., '56; John A. O'Brien, LL.D., '59; Burnett Bauer, '38; Julian Pleasants, '39: George N. Shuster, '15; Leo R. ^Vard, C.S.C, '23; William F. Cunningham, C.S.C, '07; Roy Deferrari, LL.D., '48; Tho­mas T. McAvoy, C.S.C, '25; Francis 
J. Phelan, C.S.C, '50; James A. Bums, CS.C, '88; Waldemar Gurian, faculty; James J. Maguire, '48; Willis D. Nutt­ing, faculty; Thomas F. O'Dea, '39; Louis J. Putz, C.S.C, '32; Bishop Bernard Sheil, LL.D., '39; Hugh S. Taylor, LL.D., '59; Frederick D. Wil­helmsen, M.A., '48; John J. Cava­naugh, C.S.C, '23; Ralph Adams Cram, LL.D., '24; Carlton J. H. Hayes, LL.D., '21; John J. Kane, faculty; Jerome Kerwin, LL.D., '53; Jacques Maritain, LL.D., '51; Thomas P. Neill, M.A., '39; Thomas O'Hagan, LL.D., '17; Austin O'Malley, LL.D., '95; John Pick, '33; Rev. John Talbot Smith, LL.D., '07; Most Rev. John J. Wright, D.D., LL.D., '55. 
» * « 

NOTES: The Heritage Foundation, of which Arthur Conrad, '35, is presi­dent, has moved to Independence Hall, 2720 W. Devon, Chicago 45. The Foundation has published Pat Manion's "Key to Peace," Father Edward Kel­ler's "Case for the Right to Work Laws," J. Edgard Hoover's "Masters of Deceit," among works of special Notre Dame interest. 
The ALUMNUS is reminded that one of Notre Dame's poets is acquiring stature internationally. John Logan's recent book, "Ghosts of the Heart," from the U. of Chicago Press, has re­ceived favorable reviews here and abroad. 
Coward-McCann announced Febru­ary publication of "The New Politics: America and the End of the Postwar World," by Edmund Stillman and Wil­liam PfafT, the latter A.B., '49. 
•se * -Jf 

ALUMNUS readers would be most interested in the Spring 1961 catalog of the University of Notre Dame Press. And in the field of religion Fides Publishers have an excellent list of familiar authors. Both addresses, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Here is a significant book, which will reassure older alumni and enrich younger Notre Dame men, in its clear, readable, heavily documented biography of a priest of Holy Cross. 
Not because he was a priest of Holy Cross, but because through him came large­ly the revolution which made Notre Dame the potentially great intellectual center it now seems destined to become; through him came the greatest integration of the Catholic Church with world science and .American democracy that any agency had been able to articulate up to his time; and in him were a host of talents that spanned oceans and stimulated scholarship in the minds of his day that ranged from the Minims at Notre Dame to the academic elite at the Vatican and in the courts of Europe. 
Dr. Weber's book was developed in the shadow of the buildings that housed the great scientific surge that Father Zahm and his younger brother, Albert, created at Notre Dame, and which radiated from the campus to the scientific centers of the world. 
It includes interviews with men whose life and work overlapped many of the active years. 
In a surprisingly short book (214 pp.). Dr. Weber has reflected an objective, uni­fied development of a man and his in­fluence, which involves religious community politics, which points up avidly the early conflict between basic quantitative goals in Catholic education, and the struggle for qualitative and advanced teachers who would compete with the great secular uni­versities and colleges. 
If you would know how the present ties in with this colorful past, listen to a state­ment from Father Zahm that could just as easily be from the similarly dynamic mind of Father Hesburgh: 
"I love to see in our Notre Dame of to­day the promise of the potency of a Padua or a Bologna, a Bonn or a Heidelberg, an Oxford or a Cambridge, a Salamanca or 
YOUNG CAMPER leads the Dialogne Mass at Camp Scbaik, North Scb^[o, Mc, operated by the Holy Cross Fathers' East­ern Province. Notre Dame Camp, for­merly operated by the Holy Cross Biothen at Bankson Lake, Mich, is now ran hf famed footballer Dave Flood, '48. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 
a Valladolid. It may be that this \-iew 
will be regarded as one proceeding from 
my own enthusiasm, but it matters not. I 
consider it a compliment to be called an 
enthusiast Turn over the pages of history 
and you will find that all those who have 
left a name and a fame have been en­
thusiasts, and it is because our venerable 
Founder has been an enthusiast — 1 use 
the word in its primary signification — 
that he has been able to achieve so much." 
And here is another of the remarkable 
quotations that link Sorin and Zahm with 
Notre Dame's Program for the Future: 
"To keep our place in the forefront of Catholic institutions of ."America, we must give continual and striking indication of progress, energy, and initiative. AVe cannot permit a stand-still for even a single year. To do so would mean loss — it might be a very great loss. Our friends look for constant growth, never ceasing evidence of vitality and development in a material as well as an intellectual way. Such growth necessarily means expenditure of money as well as expenditure of energ)-. It means the erection of new buildings whenever called for; it means the equipment of new and large laboratories; it means a large and a better and more expensive stafT of pro­fessors." And, "To be over cautious is to become stagnant; to endeavor to con­duct such an Institution as Notre Dame so as to incur no risks is to do what no sane business man would dream of doing. . ." 
Here is the stuff that dreams — and Notre Dame — are made of. 
As the first project of the University Press under the competent direction of Miss Emily Schossberger, the Zahm volume is most readable and possesses an attractive jacket picturing the Notre Dame campus of Zahm's era. It should be a permanent library addition of interest and significance to all alumni whose interest in Notre Dame is past, present, or future. 
—J. E. A. 
University of Notre Dame Press Notre Dame, Indiana 
Gentlemen: Please send to the address be­low copies of Notre Dame's John Zahm at $5.00 each. 
Name . Street, aty ... State . 
Check one: Q Payment Enclosed Q Bill Me 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 

a broadly farcical spoof of the academic novel, by Fallon Erans, '50 (Doubleday, 
THE TROUBLE WITH TURLOW, a 

life, particularly the hectic life and genteel $3.50). 
poverty of Catholic college faculty. With "There should be a good summer trade 
hyperbolic pencil and bluntly pointed pun, for this piece of light, "hammock-type" fic­
he turns out some amusing sketches — tion which came out on the winter lists. 
rather caricatures — of eccentric profes­Ei'ans, an associate professor at Immacu­sors, religious and
 administrators tele\'ision late Heart College, Los Angeles, with 
executives. The only life-size characters, graduate degrees from the Universities of 
the quixotic hero's wife and children, were Chicago and Denver, formerly taught at 
certainly based on E\'ans' wife Jane and Duquesnc Uni^-crsity. Co-editor of a book 
youngsters Kaithlin .•\nne and Timothy of Joycean criticism and a prolific
 con­Fallon. At the finale his scholastic idyll tributor to critical journals, he has made 
explodes in a wildly improbable academic quite a change of pace with his first novel, 
Gottcrdammerung on network television. 
The Notre Dame Spring in Summary 
COMMENCEMENT JUNE 4 featured the invitation of txvo Princes of the Church 
and several distinguished laymen as participants and recipients of honorary degrees. His Eminence Laurian Cardinal Rugam­bwa, Bishop of Bukoba, Tanganyika, and the first Negro member of the Sacred College of Cardinals, was in­vited to give the baccalaureate ser­mon during a Solemn Pontifical Mass celebrated by His Eminence .•Moisius Cardinal Muench of Vatican City, Milwaukee-bom member of the Roman Curia and a former papal nuncio to Germany. R. Sargent Shrivcr, director of the United States Peace Corps, was designated com­mencement speaker after the crisis-forced cancellation of an address by 
Cardinal Muench Cardinal Rugambwa 
Dag Hammarskjold, Secretary Gen­eral of the United Nations. Others chosen to receive honorary degrees were: Dr. J. A. Stratton, president of Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Dean Er^vin N. Griswold of the Har\'ard Law School; John W. Gamer, president of the Carnegie Corporation of New York; Dr. James E. Webb, head of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration; Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg, Chairman of the U.S. Atomic Energj' Commission; James Johnson Sweeney, director of the Houston Museum of Fine Arts and former director of New York's Museum of Modem Art; Joseph Martino, president of National Lead Company; and Dr. Arthur J. O'Connor, New York physician and philanthropist. 
CONSECRATION MAY 17 of the Most Rev. Vincent J. McCauIey, C.S.C, '30, as the first bishop of the newly created Diocese of Fort Portal, Uganda, .'\frica, \vas attended by a large group of American prelates as well as bishops from Nigeria, Tanganyika, Haiti and Puerto Rico. His Eminence Richard Cardinal Cushing, Archbishop of Boston, was the consecrating prelate. Archbishop Gerald Bergan of Omaha and Bishop Albert Cousineau, C.S.C, of Cap-Haitien, Haiti, were co-consecrators at Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. Bishop Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., '31, of Arecibo, Puerto Rico, \vas also back for the ceremony, for which Bishop Leo A. Pursley of Fort Wayne-South Bend gave the sermon. Bishop McCauley, a native of Council Bluffs, la., is a veteran missioner in Africa, India and Pakistan. 
HONORED MAY 3 by a standing acclamation from assembled faculty at the annual President's Dinner, two beloved professors are leaving Notre Dame after a combined service of 77 years. They are Prof. Jose C. Corona, department of modem languages, and Prof. Henry D. Hinton, department of chemistry. Prof. Corona, a native of Mexico, has taught Spanish language and literature at the University since 1915. Prof. Hinton took hisi graduate chemistry studies under Father Julius Nieuwland and has been teaching at Notre Dame since 1928. Honored for 25 years of teaching at the University were Willis D. Nutting, associate professor in the General Program; Daniel H. Pedtke, associate professor of music and director of the N.D. Glee Club; and Richard T. Sullivan, professor of English, novelist and short story writer. Among 22 faculty members promoted, the following were given the rank of professor: Philip C. Trexler, biology; John W. Mihelich, physics; Boleslaw Sobocinski, philosophy; and W. J. Wagner, law. 
LAETARE SUNDAY MARCH 12 marked the announcement of President John F. Kennedy, LL.D. '50, as 1961 recipient of the Lactate Medal, the 79th outstanding American Catholic layman to receive the award and the first American President to be a recipient. 
PATRIOTISM AWARD FEBRUARY 22 was conferred by the senior class on Vice Admiral Hyman G. Rickovcr at traditional Washington's Birthday exercises. Admiral Rickover, developer of the nuclear submarine recently awarded the Distinguished Service Medal, delivered the principal address in which he decried mediocrity in American science' and education. 
PLACEMENT NOTE 
The Placement Office has had several inquiries from alumni indi­cating that a problem exists in em­ployment for men nearing 40. 
Alumni are in a position to give' a definite assbt by watching for and ad\-ising the Placement Office (Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C.) of such opportunities. 
LAW SCHOOL 
(Continued from page 6) 

62; Mr. John J. Coffey, Legislation Editor for 1960-61; Mr. George A. Pelletier, Ar­ticles Editor for 1961-62; and Mr. William 
E. Kelly, Office Manager for 1961-62. 
FACULTY NOTES 

Chief Justice Warren has appointed Pro­fessor Bernard J. Ward Reporter for the Advisory Committee on Appellate Rules of 
0th e Judicial Conference of the United States. This Committee, appointed under an Act of Congress, has the responsibility of formu­lating uniform rules for all of the United States Courts of Appeals. 
Professor W. J. Wagner has been invited to participate in a Summer Research Train­ing Institute on the Administration of the Law of Torts, to be held at Dartmouth College June 26 to August 11. As pre­viously announced, Professor Wagner will spend the fall semester of ne.xt year at the Cornell Law School. 
Assistant Dean Broderick addressed the ^Bar Association at Sturgis, Michigan. 
N. D. BAND ALUMNI 

A reunion of Notre Dame Band alumni, of all years, is planned for the Navy game weekend, Nov. 4. 
The oldest living Band alumnus is to be given a free trip to the event, the sponsors announce. 
Band alumni who plan to be here are _asked to write to the Band alumni co­•ordinator: Thomas Aldert, c/o A. P. Briggs, 
Woods Hole Rd., Falmouth, Mass. (summer address). 
GLEE CLUB REUNION 

A similar reunion of Notre Dame Glee Club Alumni (particularly those of 1945­
50) is being planned for the Syracuse game weekend, Nov. 18, in honor of Prof. Daniel 
H. Pedtke's 25th year on the Notre Dame 
faculty. _ Former Glee Clubbers who plan to attend "are asked to notify John F. Fitzhenry, 1031 
North Niles Avenue, South Bend, Ind. 
MAN and the MOMENT 
By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '41 
Every school of higher learning has its image or sjTnbol. It might be an archway, a "quad," a statue, a tower or a carillon. Some physical structure call­ing back to the past whenever the name of the school is mentioned. For Notre Dame men it is the Golden Dome, the big church and the Grotto. The Golden Dome with Our Lady on top is the most striking and lasting symbol. This does not underestimate or de­emphasize the value ol the church or the Grotto. Indeed not. We are verj' much a part of these and will write of them another time. 
AVe have been more than doubly blessed to have Our Lady as the Queen of the Campus. She is ahvays and in every way and in all seasons our home­coming Queen. She is this every day of the year. She is this for all of you who have gone from the campus to your homes and your work across the world. For all of you, and in response to requests, I add this lovely poem of Chesterton. May she bless you as you read it and stir you till the Golden Dome of your memories is shimmering moist against your eyes. 
THE ARENA Causa Nostrae Laetiiiae 
(Dedicated to the University of Notre Dame) 

There uprose a golden giant On the gilded house of Nero, Even his far-flung flaming shadow and his 
image s^vollen large Looking down on the dry whirlpool Of the round Arena spinning As a chariot-wheel goes spinning; and the 
chariots at the charge. 

And the molten monstrous visage Saw the pageants, saw the torments, Down the golden dust undazzled saw the 
gladiators go. Heard the ay in the closed desert, Te salutant mouturi. As the slaves of doom went stumbling, 
shuddering to the shades below. 

"Lord of life, of lyres and laughter. Those about to die salute thee. 
At thy godlike fancy feeding men vwth 
bread and beasts with men. But for us the Fates point deathwards. In a thousand thumbs thrust downward. And the Dog of Hell is roaring through the 
lions in their den." 
I have seen, where a strange country Opened its secret plains about me. One great golden dome stand lonely with 
its golden image, one Seen afar, in strange fulfillment. Through the sunlit Indian summer That Apocalyptic portent that has clothed 
her with the sun. 
She too looks on the Arena, Sees the gladiators in grapple. She whose names are Seven Sorrows and 
the Cause of All our Joy, Sees the pit that stank with slaughter Scoured to make the courts of morning For the cheers of jesting kindred and the 
scampering of a boy. 
"Queen of Death and deadly weeping Those about to live salute thee. Youth untroubled; youth untortured; hate-
less war and harmless mirth And the New Lord's larger largesse Holier bread and happier circus. Since the Queen of Sevenfold Sorrow has 
brought joy upon the earth. 
Bums above the broad arena ^\'here the whirling centuries circle. Bums the Sun-clothed on the simunit, 
golden-sheeted, golden-shod. Like a sun-burst on the mountains. Like the flames upon the forest Of the sunbeams of the sword-blades of the 
Gladiators of God. 
.And I saw them shock the whirlwind 
Of the world of dust and dazzle: And thrice they stamped, a thunderclap; 
and thrice the sand-wheel s^virled; And thrice they cried like thunder On Our Lady of the Victories, The Mother of the Master of the Masterers 
of the World. 
"Queen of Death and Life undying Those about to live salute thee; Not the crawlers with the cattle; looking 
deathivard with the swine. But the shout upon the mountains Of the men that live forever Who are free of all things living but a 
Child; and He is thine." 
—Gilbert K. Chesterton 

Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 11 
'Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ALABAMA 

John L. Campbell, '33, 1517 Valley Drive, Birming­ham, Ala. 
ARIZONA 

PA(«-i!ir—Edirarf W. Murphy, '57, 1741 E. Tuckey Lane, Phocnbc, Arizona, rurjon—Robert O'Callaghan, '45, 725 Camino Mira­monle, Tucson, Arizona. 
ARKANSAS 

Fori SmilA—James A. Ciller, '48, 3715 Free Feiry Rd., Fort Smith, Ark. little Rorl—James E. Madigan, '43, 4617 Crest-wood, Little Rock, Ark. 
CALIFORNIA 

Ctnlro/—Harold A. Bair, '29 (Secretan), 2430 Tuhre St., Fresno, Cal. 
Greater Long Beach Area—Edniond W. Shccran, '31, 206 E. Fourth St., Long Beach 12, Cal. Loi jlnitlM—Morton R. Goodman, '30, 9441 Wil­
shirt Blvd., Bexirly Hills, Cal. 

JVortiern—William C. McGoion, '41, McMillan Mortgage Co., 4216 El Camino Real, Palo Alio, Cal. 
Oranee Count)—Willaid R. Vangen, '49, 11732 Blue Jay Lane, Garden Grove, Cal. SaeraiTtento—Thomas G. Kassis, '31, 4601 Xickels Way, Sacramento 2S, Cal. San fliVgo—Fred Fowler, '41, 4232 Slanton Rd., San Diego, Cal. San Fernando Valley—John N. Leonard, '34, 8558 Shirley Ave., Xorthrtdgc, Cal. 5iin Gabriel Valley—Bcnjaimn B. Salvaty, Jr., '32, 508 N. Vega St., Alhambra, Cal. 
COLORADO 

Colorado S/iringj—William J. Donelan, Jr., '29, 1800 Mesa Ave., Broadmoor, Colorado Springs, Colo. Zfeurfr—Carl F. Eibciser, '52, 1300 Telephone Bldg., Denver 2, Colo. 
coNNEcnctnr 

Connecticut Valley—James F. Flaherty, Jr., '53, 12 Tumblebrook Rd., Rocky Hill, Conn. Fahrfield County—Vfmam Mulrenan, '37, 100 Tide-mill Terrace, FairHeld, Conn. Naugatuch—Domenic A. Narducci, Jr., '52, 44 Beacon Manor Rd., Xaugatuck, Conn. Hew Haven—John F. Kerrigan, '49, 95 Greenu-ay Street, Hamden, Conn. 
DELAWARE 

James J. Coleman, '45, 219 Oakwood Road, Wil­mington 3, Delau-are. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

Robert N. Hutchison, '55, 12 East Lenox St., Che\7 Chase, Md. 
FLORIDA 

CeXroI—Roy B. Laughlin, '48, 2061 Rockledgc, Rockledge, Fla. Fort Lauderdale—Thoma J. Walker, '42, Walker In­tunace Assodates, Inc^ P.O. Box 595^ Dania, Fla, Crealer Miami—James A. Smith, '48, 672 N.E. 9Bth St., iLiiami Shores, Fla. North Florida—Gcxald B. Johnson, '50, 2644 Red Fox Road, Orange Park, Fla. Palm Beach County—Edward X>. Lewis, '54, Box 921, Film Beach, Fla. 
12 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 
Pmarola—Patrick J. Gunning, '53, 3770 Summer Dr., Pensacola, Fla. St. Petersburg-Tampa—JitaA E, Mooney, '26, 4525 Gaines Rd,, Tampa, Fla. 
GEORGIA 

Atlanta-James E. Barnard, '49, Acting Ftoident, 2042 Juanita St., Decatur, Ga. 
HAWAH 

Donald C. Machado, '50, 99-1490 Hecn Way, Aiea, Hawaii. 
IDAHO 

James J. Carberry, '41, 8507 Vincent St., Boise, Idaho. Idaho Falls—James M. Brady, '29, P.O. Box 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS 

Aurora—Owen Kane, '38, Kane Ford, 230 Galen Blvd., Aurora, 111. Central Illinois—Thomas Hamilton, Jr., '53, 3349 
S. Fifth St., Springfield, 111. C/nVflgo—Joseph L. Pagliari, '53, 1125 X. Knight, Park Ridge, III. fleratiir—James A. Uhl, '52, 922 X. Church Street, Decatur, 111. Eastern Illinois—Edward J. Layden, '41, Hoopeston, III. Fox Valley—Geoise R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St., Elgin, 111. Joliet—Eugene R. Funk, '59, 715 Second Avenue, Jolict, 111. Kankakee Valley—Thanxaa J. Reynolds, '54, 34354 S. Winfield, Kankakee, 111. McHenry County—Gcome K. Coslello, '40, 395 Highbnd Ave., Crystal Lake, III. Peoria—^John F. Manion, '56, 2517 West Marian Court, Sherwood Forest, Peoria, III. Roci/orrf—Albert Carroll, '22, 205 West Slalc St., Rockford, 111. Rock River Valley—Uike R. Morin, '53, 523 N. Dixon Ave., Dixon, HI. 
Southern Cook County—^Angelo A. Ciambrone, '57, 168 Hawthorne Lane, Chicago Heights, 111. 
INDIANA 

Calumet Dw/nV/—Ben R. Danko, '51, I80I Cleve­land Ave., WbttSng, lad. Eastern Indiana—^William B. Cronin, *31, 521 E. Jefferson, Hartford Cit>*, Ind. Elkhart—^Austin Gildea, *30, 5 St. Joseph Manor, Elkhart, Ind. EaansmUe—HonsHd F. Haller, *43, 716 S. Villa, Evansvillc 14, Ind. Fort irayn«—Robert R. Luther, M9, 443 Kinnard Ave., Ft. Wa>-ne, Ind. /ndi*flno/»o/u—William S. Sahm, '51, 4218 Ruckle Street, Indianapolis 5, Ind. Michigan City—Dr. Frands J. Kubik, *36, 902 Pine, Michigan at>-, Ind. St. Joseph VaIIey~M, Robert Calnll, '34, Athletic Dcpt., Notre Dame, Ind. Terre Hau/«—Charles W. Xfetzger, '48, 1031 S. Bro\%'n, Terre Haute, Ind. fVabash Valley^J;xmcs W. Glascr, '50, P.O. Box 59, Lafa>-ette, Ind. 
IOWA 

Burlineton—John A. Dailey, '27, 201 Spring St., Burlington, Iowa. Cedar Rapids—Ccorse Beiming, *49, RJL 3, Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Des Moines—James F. Boesen, '54, 4109 30th St., Dcs Moines 10, lou-a. 
Dubuque—Rev. William Kunsch, '37, Our Lady of Seven Dolors Rectory, Festtna, low'a. SioMX'tand—Rajinond B. Duggan, *43 (Secretary), 3244 Jackson, Sioux City 4, Iowa. Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, MoUne, E. Nfo-line)—WiUiam J. Laffan, '52, 2715 E. Hayes, Da\'enport, Iowa. 
KANSAS 

Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, '49, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. g Salina—A\bcTt J. SchuTirtz, *37, 130 S. Front St.,' Salitia, Kansas. Wichita—John L. Weigand, '54, 303 N. Ddlrose, Wichita 8, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY 

John E. Mueller, '52, 807 Huntington Rd., Louis\-ille 7, Ky. 
LOUISIANA 

New Orleans—John E. Petitbon, '52, C. A. Sporl & Co., Commerce Bldg., New Orleans, La. Northern Louisiana—George J. Despot, '45, 517 Market, Shrevcport, La. 
MAINE * 

J. Leonard Tobin, '38, 50 Russell St., Lewiston, Me. 
MARYLAND 

Ballintore—Frands J. Murphy, IH, '36, 634 Picca­dilly Rd., Towson 4, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS 

Berkshire County—James J. O'Brien, '34, 197 Bartlett Ave., Pittsfield, Mass. Collon—Cliarles W. Powers, '45, 1047 County St., Someiset, Mass. Pioneer roZ/ey—Daniel J. O'Connell, '22, 11 Pyn­chon Rd., Holyoke, Mass. i 
ikncmGAN 

Battle Cr«l—Ravmond R. Allen, '40, 409 Orchard Place, BatUe Creek, iCch. Berrien County—Br. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, Niles, Mch. Blue Water BiKrtcl—William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot A\«., Port Huron, Mich. IJMtftorn—Jerome W. Kelly, '53, 8964 Rockland, Detroit 39, Mich. Detroit—J. Louis Conroy, '27, 1365 Cass Ave., Detroit 26, XEch. Wint—Lawrence C, Sa-xe, '54, 801 Kensington Ave,, Flint 3, Mich. Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn, '40, Wright & Zinn, Michaels Bldg., Ironwood, Michigan. w 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—Francis X . Fallon, '33, Ambers, Law & Fallon, 500 ^^cll^gan Trust Bldg., Grand Rapids, Midi. 
i/ioaJo/Ao/oTuf—Donald T. Trottier, '44, 604 Lud­ington St., Escanaba, Mich. Jackson—CyrH J. Hartman, '23, 612 Webb St., Jack­son, Mich. 
Kalamazoo—^Joseph O'Keefe, '44, O'Keefe Motor Sales, 433 W. Water St,, Kakimazoo, Mich. Lansing—Clarence J, Hess, '33, Station B, Lansing 
13, Mich, Monroe—Charles J. Golden, '48, 35 E. Front St., Monroe, Mich. Muskegon—G. Leonard Pucci, '47, 3103 Eastland Rd., Muskegon, Mich. Saginaw Fol/e).—WiUiam C. Huriey, '25, 1711 Gratiot, Saginaw, Mich. M Top of Michigan—Edward L. Moloney, '17, 416 East Sutz St, Cheboygan, Mich. 
MINNESOTA 

WDuIuthSuperior—James P. Keough, '35, (treasurer), 2/05 East Fifth St., Dulutb, Minn. Twin Ci'/iVi—Joseph T. O'Neill, '53, 2118 Bayard A\-e., St. Paul 16, Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI 

William H. Miller, '30, 755 Gillespie PI., Jack­son, Miss. 
\nssouRi 

Kansas City—(Mo. and Kans.)—^John T. Massman, '56, 1207 Romany Rd., Kansas City, Mo. SI. touii.—Robert F. Cliickey, '54, 9810 Madison, Rock Hill 19, -Mo. 
' MONTANA 
Bernard Giainey, '43, 906 llth Avenue, Helena, Mont. 
NEBRASKA 

Omaha and Council Bluffs—Robert L. Berry, '51, 
5806 Spaulding St., Omaha, Neb. 
NEW JERSEY 

Central—Joseph J. Scpkoski, '50, 1155 Lorraine Ave., Plainficid, iV. J. Neut Jersey—Jtacph M. McKcon, *40, Rensselaer 
Rd., Essex Falls, NJ. 

^South Jersey—James B. Caison, *56, 624 Clinton 
P Ave., Iladdonficld, N.J. 
NEW MEXICO 

Frands P. Hudson, '54, 2728 Palomas Dr., N.E., Albuquerque, ^f. M. 
NEW YORK 

Buffalo—llarrf A. Quinn, Jr., '49, 105 McKinlcy .Ave., Kenmorc 17, N. Y. Capital District—C. F. Regan, Jr., '27, 441 Louden­viUc Rd., Albany II, N. Y. Central—Paul E. Hickey, '40, 218 Bronson Rd., S>'racuse 9. N.Y. ^Golden Cirrfe—James F. McVay, '42, 49 Parkw-ay LanCf Bradford, Pa. Mid-Hudson I'offo^Donald J. Reynolds, '53, 118 South Ave., Foughkeepsie, N. Y. Mohihok I'offo'—Kenneth F. Jfurphy, '54, 32 Emer­son Ave., Utica 3, N.Y. Ntw York City—A\ Lcsmez, '45, 122 Tullamore Rd., Garden City, L.I., N.Y. Rochester—William J. Dcmpsey, '53, 67 Ifar\-cst Dr., Fairport, N. Y. Sehencetadi—JLobcrt L. Schacfer, '48, 1100 Wavdl 
Road, Schenectady, N.Y. Syracuse—Sec "Central New York" Southern Tier—Edwin Bonham, '09, 329 Hamilton 
St., Painted Post, N. Y. Triple Cities—George J. Haines, '42, 63 Davis, Binghamton, New York. 
NORTH CAROLINA 

Donald Kclsey, '48, 1115 Wcslridge Rd., Greensboro, X.C. 
NORTH DAKOTA 

William Daner, '53, 1106 So. Highland Acres, Bismarck, North Dakota. 
OHIO 

Atron—Joseph J. Weibel, '56, 171 Beck .Ave, Akron 2, Ohio. 
Conton—Edward A. Machuga, '55, 3207 Windsor, ^ Canton, Ohio. T7w<i«KKt—Bertcand A. ScUoemer, '33, 2SI8 Vr­
wOer Ave., Cincinnati 11, Ohio. 
CfraWotid—Robert E. Dowd, '41, 19413 Scottsdale Blvd., Shaker Heights 22, Ohio. Columbus—Richard Kasberg, '48, 861 S. Casstngham Rd., Columbus 8, Ohio. Dayton—George A. Pflaum, Jr., '54, 1705 Harvard Blvd., Dayton 6, Ohio. Hamilton—Jerome A. Rj^n, '41, 353 South "D " St., Hamilton, Ohio. Mansfeld—John C. O'Donnell, '24, 191 Lind Ave., MansBcId, Ohio. iVor/AaiwIem—Paul Doran, '37, 1505 W. Wayne St., Lima, Ohio. OAfo Valley—Jzmes J. Haranzo, '52, 29 Oakland Ave., Wheeling, W. Va. Jandur*>^Richard C. Hohler, '47, 2603 Eastwood Drive, Sandusky, Ohio. ri#;ii—Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., Tiffin, Ohio. ro/«</o—Charles M. Schira, '46, 4510 Eastway, To­ledo 12, Ohio. Younsslown—Tliomas E. Kerrigan, '44, 133 East Judson Ave., Youngstown, Ohio. 
OKLAHOMA 

Oklahoma City—Dr. Al R. Diescher, '38, 4415 
N. Thompson, Oklahoma Cit>', Okki. 
Tufm—John F. Mohatt, '35, 3754 East 46th PL, Tulsa 35, Okti. 
OREGON 

Charles Slalt, '33, 2835 N.E. 19th Ave., Port­land 12, Oregon. 
PENNSYLVANIA 

Central Pennsylvania—Dr. George W. Katter, '41, 
U. S. Bank Bldg., Johnstown, Pa. £n£—Raymond W. Lcglcr, '57, 2323 Sassafras St., Eric, Pa. Ham'siarg—Donald R. Meek, '50, 520 Park Ave., New Cumberland, Pa. Lehigh Valley—l.oa\s J. Wynne, '50, 1826 Turner St., Allcntown, Pa. Monongahela Valley—Louis W. Apone, '41, 321 Market St., Brownsville, Pa. P/ii/ai/W/iAia—Barton B. Johnson, '48, 310 Fairhill Rd., Wynnewood, Pa. Pittsbursh—Peter F. Flahert}-, '51, 5820 Elwood St., Pittsburgh 32, Pa. Srranlon—Thomas P. Comerford, '42, 415 Clark Ave., Clarks Summit, Pa. Witkes-Barre—Rajmond J. Sobota, '49, 750 Miners Bank, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
ICiHi'ami/ior/—Edivard F. O'Dea, '57, 1254 Park Ave., Williamsport, Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS 
Philip B. Toole, '52, 72 .Anauana Rd., Riivtudcct, R.L 
SOUTH CAROLINA 

Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore Dr., West­wood, Charleston, So. Car. 
SOUTH DAKOTA 

Black Hi/Ii—Bernard Gira, '10, Custer, South Dakota. 
TENNESSEE 

CAnKonooga—Herbert J. Haile, Jr., '55, W. C. Teas Co., 1212 McCallie Ave., Chattanooga, Tcnn. .\lemphis~Joha M. Reynolds, '56, 409 Cecilia Dr., Memphis, Tcnn. 
TEXAS 

Dallas—Martin R. O'Connor, '51, 3174 Calamore Lane, Dallas 29, Tctas. B Pttjo—Edward T. Jennings, '53, 312 Olivia Circle, El Paso, Texas. 
Houston—T. George McHale, '23, 505 Stuart Houston 6, Texas. Midland-Odessa—n. Byrne O'NeiD, '45, 70S Bojd Midland, Texas. RIO Grande KoOeT—Robert Aiii, '49, 1205 W Elizabeth, Brownsville, Texas. San Antonio—y\ar\L E. Watson, Jr., '57, 345 Bur Rd., San Antonio, Texas. 
UTAH 

Jack W. GalVvan, '37, 1017 Keams Bldg., Sat Lake City, Utah. 
VIRGINIA 

E. Milton Faricy, '51, 4900 Rivenide Dr., Richmond 25, Va. 
Tidewater—rnUp L. Russo, '49, 8033 Wedgeu-ooe Drive, Norfolk, Va. 
WASHINGTON 

Spokane—Bernard J. Smyth, '55, East 1911 Thurston, Spokane 34, Wash, n'eilera—Joseph G. Lotta, '51, 2156 North 95Ul St., Seattle, Wash. 
WEST VIRGINU 

Rudolph L. Oi Trapano, '50, 2303 Kanawha Bh-d., Charleston, West Virginia. Cenlrii/—John D. Julian, '40, P.O. Box 2063, darksbuts, W. Va. 
WISCONSIN 

Fax River Valley—Ralph H. Caston, '42, 530 Grove, Neenab, ^Vis. Cr«n Bnj'—Wallace P. Christman, '44, 2423 Beau­mont St., Green Bay, Wis. LaCroKe—Steve Pavela, '48, 2311 State St., LaCrosse, Wis. .WerriH—Augustus H. Stange, '27, 102 S. Prospect, Menill, Wis. Milwaukee—Eugene J. Schumaker, '42, 2018 E . Lake Bluff Blvd., XCIivaukee 11, Wis. 
Northwest Wisconsin—C. T. Doivns, '33, 219V4 
S. Baistow, Eau Claire, Wis. South Central—John W. Roach, '27, 138 Glenway St., Madison, \Visc. 
Southeaslern—Edmn E. Raymond, Jr., '49, 2820 21st St., Racine, Wis. 
WYOMING 

Patrick H. Meenan, Acting Prcs., '49, Midwest Bldg., 
P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wyo. 
FOREIGN CLUBS 

Bencal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24 (key man), Moceau House, 28 Zindabahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. 
Crniadn—Paul H. LaFtamboise, '34, 400 Charest Blvd., Quebec, Canada. 
Chile—Rev. Francis A. Provenjano, C.S.C., '42, St. Gecnse's College, Aven. Be<lra de Valifivia 1423, Santiago, Chile. 
Eciuidor—John Moeller, '47, P.O. Box 213, Quilo, Ecuador. Guom—Capt. V. T. BIaz, '51, P.O. Box 2002, Azana, Guam, ^/antfa—Conrado Sanchez, Jr., '54, 83 Mayon St , Quezon City, Philippines. Mexico City—Telmo DeLandero, '37, Eugenio Soe 220, Mexico City, fniumo—William J. Shetidao, '34, Box 98, Balbo* 
Heights, Canal Zone. Pent—Enrique LuUi, '45, Cuzco 440, Lima, Faa . Puerto Rico — Vice-Res.: Paul McMamis, '34, 
Calle Earle, No. 4, Condado, Santuiee, Puerto Rico. Borne—Secretary: Vincent G. McAIoon, '34, Bda m Brancacdo, Largo Braocaccio, 82, Rome, Italy; Telephone 730002 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ June, 1961 13 
CALENDAR 
Regularly scheduled club meetings that have been reported to the Alumni Office are as follows: 
BUFFALO—First Tuesday of every month at 8:30 p.m.. Hotel Lenox, 715 Dela­^vare Ave., Buffalo, N.Y. In addition, a table marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo" is reserved for lunch at K. of C , 506 Dela^vare -Ave., Buffalo, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 
CEDAR RAPIDS—Communion Breakfast Meeting, fourth Sunday of even months: 8K)0 a.m. Mass at alternating parishes; 
9:00 breakfast meeting at Bishops. 
CENTRAL OHIO—First Monday (night) of every month. Junior Rose Room, Vir­ginia Hotel, Columbus, Ohio. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—Second Wed­nesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High St, Perth .Amboy. 
DECATUR — Monthly luncheons, fourth Wednesday of every month at Elks Club, Decatur, 111. 
DENV'ER—^First AVednesday of each month at the Na\-arre Restaurant 
DETROIT—^First Monday of each month, luncheon, at 12 noon. Ye Olde Wayne Club, 1033 Wayne S t 
ERIE—First Friday dinner meeting with wves. Antler's Restaurant, 7:00 p.m.. Sept thru June, Eric, Pa. 

FORT L/\UDERDALE—Second Thursday of each month, dinner at 7:30 p.m., Gov­ernor's Club Hotel, F t Lauderdale, Fla. 
INDIANAPOLIS — Every Thursday noon at the Indianapolis Bar Association, 33 North Pcnnsyh'ania St, Indianapolis, Ind. 

KANSAS CITY—Call Plaza 3-2160. 
MIAMI—Call Jim Smith (FR 7-2341) or Bob Probst (FR 4-0507) for time and lo­cation of meetings. 

PHILADELPHIA—Second Tuesday of each month (night) at the Philopatrian Club. 
PITTSBURGH —Weekly luncheon at the Variety Club, Thursday, in the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, 12 noon. 
ROCHESTER — Monthly luncheon, first Monday, at 12:15 p.m., Home Dairj', 111 East Main, second floor. 
ROME—Open House daily, Palazzo Bran­caccio, Lai:go Brancaccio 82, ph. 730002. Ask for Vince McAloon, secretary. 

ST. LOUIS—^Monthly luncheon, stag, 12 noon. Key Club in Hotel Jefferson, St Louis, Mo., second Monday. 
SOUTHWESTERN WISCONSIN — First Friday of every month, noon luncheon get-together at the Racine Elks Club. 
TERRE HAUTE — Third Tuesday of every month, 7:30 p.m. Meeting at the Terre Haute House. 
WASHINGTON — AVeekly luncheon, each Tuesday, 12 noon. Touchdown Club, 1414 I Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 
WILKES-BARRE—First Tuesday of every . month, luncheon meeting, 12:15 p.m., in the main dining room. Hotel Sterling. 
14 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 
Akron 
Sorry u'c missed the last feu- publications. Our lack of reporting u-as not due to a shortage of dub functions. On ihc contrarv-, we've been quite bus>-. 
August 12th u*as the date of our annual golf outing, played last year just one week following tlic P.G.A. Tournament over the Tournament Course, Firestone C. C. Championship courses, under tournament conditions and from the long ties, arc not for N.D. Club outings unless every­one is really out for good sport. FRANK STEELE '29, was the only one still smiling as we headed into the 19th hole after 7,000 LLLLong >-ards. 
HUGH LAUGHLIN '23, manager of the Fire­stone Club House, went all out hosting forty-eight members and guests to a perfect steak din­ner. (The apple pic is also out of this world.) For this year's planned golf outing, we would like to in\-ite members of clubs from tlie sur­rounding area to play this fine course. 
On November 1st, twenty-five couples gathered for Evening Mass celebrated bv our Club chaplain, FATHER HILKERT, at St. Mary's Church. Din­ner was held at "Irish" Nick Yanko's in the Notre Dame Room. 
Sunday, December 5th, wc had a fine turnout for a Sfass said by Fr. Hilkcrt for the repose of the souU of GLEN SMITH, '27, and DAN McGOWAN, '24, who died during the past year and for the living members of the Club. We plan on making this a yearly affair. 
Our annual Sdiolarship Dance, held again this year at the Portage Country Club, on December 27th, was not its usual Enandal success, but cver^-one who attended had a fine time. JOHN DARAGO, '55, Club treasurer, W^LS chairman of the Dance. 
Preparations went along smoothly for Uni\xrsal Notre Dame Night, held April 27th at the new Silver Lake Country Club. TOM BOTZUM "50 was chairman of the event. The word came out tliat Dan Miller would "ride" in from Clevdand for the e\*ening to introduce our guest speaker, JIM ARMSTRONG. 
Our Club is attempting at this time to write a By-Law Amendment to the Constitution on a Permanent Scholarship Committee. We would ap­preciate suggestions from other dubs on the forma­tion of like committees. 
Baltimore 
Wednesday, March 15, was the date for the Club's noon lundieon held at Marty's Park Plaza Restaurant. Our guest was Rev. James C. Dona­hue, superintendent of Catholic Schools, who talked on tlie subject of "Catholic Education and its Challenge in the 60's." Father Donahue's talk highlighted such points as the direction of Catholic education, curriculum and teachers, and choices to be made for the shortages in the schools. BILL GAUDREAU handled arrangements. 
A St. Patrick's Day Party followed on March 17 in Bethesda, featuring all-in-one-fee refreshments, door prizes, entertainment, and stakes for sporting events. Colleens and guests w*crc invited. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was obsen*ed en Thursday, April 13, in the York Room of the Penn Hold, with a reception and dinner for alumni, wives, parents and friends. The manifestly qualified speaker on "Personal Responsibility" was JUDGE J. GILBERT PRENDERGAST, Man of the Year in 1960 and returned in the fall to the Supreme Bench of Baltimore City. Introduced were the officers for 1961: WILLIAM GAUDREAU, president; BERNARD CRONIN, JR., vice-presi­dent; DUANE CONNOLLY, secretarj-; and DAVID SOLOMON, treasurer. 
Berkshire County 
The second Universal Xotre Dame Night of the Berkshire Club was held Thursday, April 6th at the Country Club of PittsReld. 
HUGHIE DEVORE, freshman coacli, w-as the speaker from school and had the audience in stitches, as well as rc\-icwins the prospects for this season and some of the "happenings'* of last season. Supporting Hughie on the expectations of this season was co-captain elect NICK BUONI­CONTI of Springfield, Massachusetts. 
One of the featured actinties of the evening was the awarding of the Father Hesburgh Award to the outstanding high school senior in Berk­shire County. The award was based on sdiolastic performance, leadership ability and extra curricular^ actiWty. DR. JOSEPH A. WILK headed the ^ Awards Committee. The Committee selected Delos ^Vhitman of Hancock, Massachusetts. Delos, a member of the National Honor Society, has been on the school honor roll for four years. He is an officer in the Student Council, letter winner in track, acnve in dramatics, helps operate his father*s 200-acre farm, active in 4-H and the Baptist Fellowship. 
Speaking on "Catholic College Graduate — His Community Responsibilities" was REV. CHARLES VAN DUREN, a Sacred Heart Father and Club Chaplain. Father Van Dtu'en is rector of Dehon Seminary for late vocations in Great Barrington, Massadiusetts. 
President JIM 0*BRIEN reviewed the club's ac­
tixitics and AL "BUZZ" BZDULf\ scned as 
toastm aster. 
This our second UND Night was highly success-^v ful. The Committee was headed by BILL FIA- -^ HERTY, JR., of Great Barrington, assisted by ROBERT NESBITT, EDW. REAGAN, JIM DRES­SER, JOHN CURTIN, JACK DcMOSS, DENNIS SULLIVAN, DICK PINTER and FRANK KELLY. 
—F. M. LINEHAN, *45, Secj*. 

Boston 
^Vord from the University brought the exciting neu-5 that a Bostonian President JOHN F. KEN­NEDY, LL.D., '51, was named the 79th dis­tinguished Catholic la\-man to receive the coveted Laetare Medal of Notre Dame. 
REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C., president of our beloved Notre Dame was one of the three distinguished American dtizens to be honored on May 11, 1961 at Hilton Statler Hotel ^ by the Massadiusetts Committee of Catholics, Protestants and Jews. Dave Garroway famed tele­vision personality and Arthur Goldberg, Labor Secretary In President Kennedy's Cabinet were chosen to represent their respective rdigious groups at the 24th Annual Goodwill Dinner on May II. CHARLES PATTERSON, '44 and WILLIAM E. DACEY, '49 named to head a committee to greet Father Hesburgh on his visit to Boston to receive the award. For an Interesting look at the exciting life led by Father Hesburgh may we recommend for your reading a recent Time magazine profile and an artidc by Milton Lomash in The Sign Magazine. Here you will find a few of the an­swers to "How Docs Father Ted Do It?" 
The sixty-piece University of Notre Dame Con­cert Band appeared at John Hancock Hall on April 6, 1961 as part of their annual Easter Va­cation Tour. The concert was sponsored by tlie|^ Diocesan Charities, under the tireless guidance of Rt. Rev. Christopher P. Griffin, Administrator of the S<.uth Station Chapel. 
General Chairman JOSEPH F. GARGAN set up tlie 38th Annual Observance of Universal Notre Dame Night on April 8, 1961. Tlie honor guests were REV. JOHN E. WALSH, OS.C, newly appointed Director of The Notre Dame Foundation who was ofEdal University representative, and EDWARD M. KENNEDY, brother of President JOHN F. KENNEDY. An unbclic\-ably low en­trance fee was made possible as the result of some ingenious talents on the part of the Dinner Dance Committee. 
MATTHEW O'BRIEN died at his home In Peabody on February 14, 1961 after a short ill­ness. To his wldo;^*, Ruth and t^vo young sons our prayers and profound sorrow. 
CHARLIE POWERS, '45, Somerset barrister,^ headed a committee which Interviewed 60 or more young men from the Metropolitan area who have 
» 
filed applications for admission to the University. Thc program was initiated by the Department of Admissions at Notre Dame. This committee de­scr\cs the appreciation of every Club Member. 
—T. J. TOO.MEY. *30, Secy. 

Buffalo 
Justice WILLIAM B. LAWLESS, '44; FRANCIS 
J. GAGLIONE, '37; DONALD T. MAHONEY, '50; and JAMES F. GVSEY, *44. were elected directors of the Buffalo Club for three year terms, beginning immediately, at the March 7 meeting in the Hotel Lenox. These men joined the other Directora and elected Club Officers for 1961-1962. Ne%%- Officers arc: HARRY A. QUINN, Jr., '49, president; AL\THE^V DUGGAN, '52, vice-presi­dent; JAMES F. CASEY. '44, secretary; DONALD 
T. MAHONEY, '50, financial secretary-; and PAUL I CARROLL, '48, treasurer. Beginning a retreat on St. Patrick's Day wasn't the stumbling block wc at first thought it would be. The turnout for the March 17-thru-19 week end ^\*as the second largest in our Club's history. Retreat chairman MAURICE QUINN, '37, was responsible for this fine turnout. As In the past, our retreat masten were the St. Columban Fathers. The retreat u*as held at their Retreat House in Dcrby-on-thc-Lakc, New York. Those in attendance were: MAURICE QUINN, FRANK GAGLIONE. CHESTER \VILGA, WILLUM C. KANE, ANTHONY BRICK, JOSEPH BUCK­HEIT, PAUL BALLING, HENRY BALLING, JR., RICHARD WAGNER, JACK ENDERS, RALPH ELSE, JOSEPH HIGGINS, PAUL CAR­
ROLL, JERRY McCABE, ED OLEKSAK, HARRY QUINN, ED T. (TED) FLANAGAN, BERNARD 
J. BIRD, and JAMES CASEY. 
k JOSEPH BUCKHEIT, '52, was chairman of this year's Universal Notre Dame Night, held at the BufTalo Trap and Field Club on Wednesday evening, April 5. FATHER THOMAS J. O'DON­NELL, C.S.C., Notre Dame's special alumni liason for the Foundation, was our guest speaker. A dance sponsored by the BufTalo Campus Club followed the dinner. The Easter Vacation made possible the combination of these two events. PETER CROTTY, JR., '61, was Chairman of the dance. 
HENRY J. BALLING, JR., was announced as "Man of the Year," in the Buffalo area. "Hank" is a 1952 graduate of Notre Dame and Is a partner in the Balling Brothers construction firm. He has been active in Notre Dame alumni affairs since his graduation and was president of the Buf­falo Club from 1959 through 1960. 
^ Justice WILLIAM B. LAWLESS, Jr., '44, chair­man for the Foundation's Special Gifts Committee in the eight counties of Western New York, will have a complete report on this phase of Notre Dame's Foundation Program, in the next issue of the ALUMNUS. Some of his Committee Mem­bers arc: DON MAHONEY, JOHN EG.\N, JACK ENDERS, JIM CASEY, JOHN HOELSCHER, JOE WATSON, PAUL NEVILLE, MAURICE QUINN, JACK KUHLMAN, and BERNIE BIRD. This Committee honored Father O'Donnell at a private luncheon at the Buffalo Athletic Club on Tuesday, April 4. 
On Sunday. March 12, 1961 a delegation of 12 men from the Buffalo Club, headed by JACK ENDERS and HARRY QUINN, attended the Annual Canisius College Alumni Communion Break­fast. Tills occasion honored DR. THOMAS DOOLEY posthumously, as this year's recepient of 
^thc Peter Canisius Medal. Malcolm W. Dooley, his brother, received the Medal In his honor. 
Late Spring and Summer activities indude: a night at the Races (Buffalo Race*%-ay); the Annual Stag Outing; one and possibly two golf outings; sponsored shows at Melody Fair and possibly a Family Picnic. 
—JAMES F. CASEY, '44, Secy. 

Calumet Region 
Once again Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated in Calumet at Phil Smidt & Son Res­taurant, Whiting, Ind., on April 10, 1961. The principal speaker ^**as a guest from the campus, JOHN J. BRODERICK, assistant dean of the Notre Dame Law School. Scliolarship, treasury, 
I and short progress reports w*erc delivered, and 'jA&fES MORRISON, 'M, was a\rarded a scroll as N.D. Man of the Year. 
NEW YORK—Metropolitan alumni braved a freak spring snowstorm to present this "rep* rcscntative" attendance for the annual three-day closed retreat at nearby Loyola Seminary. 
Canton 
The Canton (Ohio) Club of Notre Dame picked 
April 5 for its obscr\-ance of Universal ND Night. 
JOHN MacCAULEY, eastern district foundation 
director turned up to entertain and inspire us 
with a few well-turned phrases on "Personal Re­
sponsibility," the theme of this year's observance. 
Our alumni. In a strong vote of confidence for 
new president ED ^LACHUGA, turned out in full 
force. A head count showed 82 alumni, wives, 
students, their dates, prospective students and their 
parents present at the Bra-Win Manor for a social 
hour, dinner, a taped message from FATHER 
HESBURGH, Mr. MacCauIcy's address and the 
highlights, though few, of the past football season. 
MAURICE F. ZINK, president of the Zink 
Finance Corp. and \-ice-presidcnt and secretary of 
the ZInk Insurance Agencj*, Inc., here, ^x-as in­
troduced as area chairman for the big library fund 
drive-
Also making his first official appearance in our 
midst was FATHER ROBERT C. FANNON, ad­
ministrator of Canton Central Catholic High 
School, who was appropriately selected by our 
officers to ser\'e as our chaplain. 
One of Father Fannon's boys, Norm Nicola and Norm's fatlier, joined us. Norm was all-Ohio football center last season and will be "wearin' the green" starting nc\t fall. We hope he will follow the large footsteps left on the ND scene by such other Stark Countians as H.ARRY STUHLDREHER, RIP .MILLER, TOM SEAMAN, and GENE HEDRICK. 
—JAMES \VEBER 

Central Illinois 
For Universal Notre Dame Night, wc picked the date of April 15, 1961, to convene and also to have election of officers. Because of the limited number of members in the club, we felt also that It would be unwise to try and plan for an outside speaker. We're hoping tliat after a year or two wlien ^vc have the membership built up again, ^ve can have someone come in. 
Our football trip last fall was a complete suc­cess, and thanks again for helping in obtaining the tickets. 
The club sent a check to the Foundation to show our apprcaation to the University. We hope that in future years, the amount will grow as the size and strength of our club docs. 
^Ve'Il be following this year's football team all the way and wish Joe and the bo)^ all the luck in the world. 
—TOM HAMILTON, Jr., Pres. 

Central New Jersey 
The spring c\'ents have started for the Notre Dame Club of Central Nc\v Jersey. 
PETE MORGAN, Track Coach of Princeton University (Notre Dame '29), talked to the club about the distressing decline of physical fitness in American youth, and what the prospects were for coming Olympic games. Following his talk, a CBS Documentary on KNUTE ROCKNE was pre­sented. 
April 15 was the date for our Universal Notre Dame Night dinner-dance at the Park Hotel in 
Plainficid, New Jersey. BOB ARRIX reported good 
progress with soles. Coach HUGH DEVORE was 
guest speaker on a program which promised to 
be the best of all Central Jersey U.N.D. nights. 
June 15 will be "Class of '61 Night" and the 
Club plans a picnic for July. 
—WILLLAM M. RICHARDSON, Secy. 

Chicago 
Universal Notre Dame Night in Chicago was 
^^onday, April 24, 1961 In the Guildhall of the 
Ambassador Hotel. Cocktails were at 6 pun. with 
dinner at approximately 7 p.m. 
DR. GEORGE N. SHUSTER, appointed Assistant 
to the President of the University on January 9, 
1961 (the fint layman to hold this position) will 
be our featured speaker. Dr. Shuster is a 1915 
graduate of Notre Dame and was a professor of 
English there from 1920 to 1924. He ser\-ed for 
20 years as President of Hunter College In New 
York City and was awarded Notre Dame's Laetare 
Medal in June, 1960. Dr. Shuster is the author 
of numerous books and articles in the fields of 
education, religion, English Literature and Mod­
ern German History. By presidential appointment 
he is the U. S. representative on the Executive 
Board of the United Nations Educational, Scientific 
and Cultural Organization. 
FATHER JOHN S. BANAHAN, Director of 
Radio and TeleWsIon for the Archdiocese of Chica­
go, received our annual Decency Award for his 
outstanding contributions to hb chosen fields. 
MR. JOSEPH J. SULLIVAN, SR., class of 1901, was especially honored as the founder of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago in 1908. Mr. Sullivan holds the distinction of being the only man to be elected twice to the presidency of this club. Universal Notre Dame Night marked the 50th anniversary of his election as president. 
This year the University asked us to include a brief but effective reporting on the status of the University's all-important "Program of the Fu­ture." Accordingly, the progress made to date on the nationwide program was reported to us by Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., Director of the University of Notre Dame Foundation and a re­port on our local progress was made by Mr. Ray­mond W. Durst. 
Members of the ticket committee included Daa Hardin, '53; Terry Brennan, '49; Ed Fox, '37. —PATRICK J. SHAN'NON, General Chainnaa 
The Nominating Committee selected and sub­mitted the following candidates for election at the annual meeting: Honorary President, JOSEPH D . SHELLY, '25; 1st Vice- President, NORMAN J. BARRY, '43; 2nd Vice-President, ARTHUR L. CONIUD, '35; Secretary, PAUL FULLMER, '55; Treasurer, PATRICK J. SHANNON. '48; Board of Governors (3-Year Term), RICHARD W. BURKE, '54; JOHN C. FOGARTY. '49; JAMES J, AULOOLY, '55; JOSEPH E. MERRION, '20; EDWARD T. MIESKOWSKI, '46; FRANK J. .MURNANE, '49; and KEXSETH R. SCHUSTER, '49. 
Board of Governors (1-Year Term to complete the term of ^VILLIAM F. LEWIS), DON D. CLARK, '48. 
ARTHUR L. CONRAD, Secy. 

Notre Dame AlumnuSj June, 2961 IS 
Cleveland 
REV. THEODORE HESBURGH, C.S.C. was the principal speaker at Cleveland's Universal Noire Dame Night held April 12, 1961 at Hotel Statlcr. A reception ^vas held in honor of Father Hesburgh prior to the Dinner. FATHER HES­BURGH spoke on "Personal Responsibility" and brought greetings from FATHER XLVTTHEW WALSH, past president of Notre Dame, to ARCHBISHOP HOBAN of Cleveland. Seated at the Speaker's tabic with Fatlicr Hesburgh and Arclibishop Hogan were JAMES UPRICHARD and Mrs. Uprichard, ARTHUR CAREY and Mrs. Carey, co-chairmen of this ycar*s event; JOHN J. REIDYf chairman of the Notre Dame Foundation Committee, and >rrs. Reidy; JA.\fES "PAT" CANNY, toastmastcr; LEO J. BURBY, president of the Cleveland Club, and Mrs. Burby. 
JAMES COLLERAN was presented the "Man 

of the Year" A%%^d by JOHN CHAPLA, last 
year's recipient of this award. Personal congratu­
lations were offered by Arcltbisliop Hoban and 
Father Hesburgh to Jim. Pat Canny, past presi­
dent of the National Alumni .Association, pre­
scnicd, on behalf of the National Alumni Associa­
ation, a posthumous merit award for outstanding 
senice to the Association to the late CHARLES 
ROHR, accepted by his widow, Mrs. Charles Rohr. 
Five hundred guests attended, and music was 

furnished by the Bob Lorcncc Trio. /\mong tlic 
many members and wives attending together with 
outstanding local and civic leaders and their wives 
were the following: ^MLLLAM D.ALY, JOHN P. 
MURPHY, CYRUS E.\TON, GEORGE GUND, 
VERNON STOUFFER, WRIGHT BRYON, 
CHARLES McCAHILL, AVALTER TOUHY, RAY 
T. ^^LLER. MSGR. EDW.VRD SEWARD, FATHER BERNARD BLxVTT, KARL MARTER­STECK, THO.\L\S BREMER, AUGUSTINE STE­FANEK, WALTER MONACELLI, R.\Y T. MIL­LER, JR.; GEORGE BLATT, DENNIS O'NEILL, THOXLAS BYRNE, CLAYTON LEROUX, FR^VNK GAUL, DON MILLER, ROBERT LrVLLY, DEN­NIS O'NEILL, JR., EDWARD CVREY, THO­MAS MULLIGAN, FRANK X. CULL, ROBERT DOWD, RICHARD ^HLLER, JOHN J. REIDY, JR.; PAUL LILLIS, ROBERT BOUH.\LL, ED­WARD KILLEEX, PETE CHAMPION, CREIGH­TON MILLER, FRANK PA^*NE, GEORGE HAMMER, HUGO HILDEBRAND, PHILIP ARCHER, FRANK NOVAK, VINCENT De-CRANE, ANTHONY DeBAGGIS, RILEY MIL­LER, FRED PAYNE, DAN ILAMMER, JOHN MENDE-VHALL, BERNARD O'DOHERTY, NOR­BERT RASCHER, THONLAS McH.ALE, ARTHUR WOOD, DAVID CARTWRIGHT, RICHARD GAECKLE, AL SO.M.MER, and FORREST BROWN. 
Congratulations to DE.VNIS J. P. O'NEILL, Jr., '51, on his recent engagement to Pat Skclly. 
Colorado Springs 
The newly founded Notre Dame Club of Colo­rado Springs obser\'ed the 38th Annual Universal Notre Dame Night April 12 at the Swiss Chalet Restaurant. The dinner meeting was preceded by a cocktail hour. 
"Personal Responsibility,*' the thtme based on recent statements by the President's Commission on National Goals and the American Catholic Hierarcliy, was tlic subject of a talk by JAMES 
E. ARMSTRONG, executive secreiarj' of the Noire Darac Alumni Association. 
Officers of the Club are: WILLIAM J. DONE­L.AN, JR., president; >nLLLAM G. HEARN, vice-president; and DR. JAMES A. JOHNSON, secre­tary-treasurer. Club cliaplain Is tlic \'ERY RE\''. ROBERT F. HOFF.M/V.N, pastor of St. Mar>-'s Churcli. The initial roster shows a healthy 25 members, 12 of them non-voting associates. 
Columbus 
Since the last report of this Club's activities, we have held several functions. 
Shortly after Christmas the Club sponsored a Christmas Dance at the Atliletic Club in Columbus. This was a social success. Mucli of the gaiety came about as the result of the hard work of Mrs. Helen Meyers in preparing the lovely table deco­rations. KEN MEYERS, '40 recently moved into our town and Is a sales representative of tlie Pabst Brewing Company. AL TONTI, '51, chainnaned this function and he had able assistanu. 
On ^farch 13, the Club held its annual dcction meeting. Tlierc were two openings on tlic Trustee Board for a five-year period, with the retirement 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—Annual uTcath­laying ceremony at Knutc Rockne's grave followed Rocknc Communion breakfast with principals (1. to r.) Joseph Kuharich, '38, head football coach; Knute Rocknc, Jr.; Jack Cannon, '30, principal speaker; ancl Jack Rocknc. 
ol BUD MURPHY, '33 and JACK GORDON, '42. 
The offices of president, vice-president, secretary 
and treasurer were open. The newlv elected board 
members were DR. JOE HUGHES, *31 and AL 
EICHENLrVUB, '51. DICK KASBERG, '48, was 
elected President; JOH.V FLLVTZ, ^51, \^ce-Pr^i­
dcnt; PAT TONTI, '51, Secretan-; and ERNIE 
KLIBZY, '57, Treasurer. ART WRICH, '48, was 
named chairman of our Universal Noire Dame 
Night dinner. 
On April 8 the Club met to honor Our Lady on 
Universal Notre Dame Night. The meeting was 
held at the Desert Inn. with our host being GUIDO 
ALEXANDER, '44. Chairman ART WRICH, '48, 
fiallcd the dinner meeting to order at 7:45 p.m. 
Following tlie steak dinner, BOB ECHENRODE, 
'48, outgoing President, introduced the outgoing 
officers, board members and the new officers. 
JACK GORDON, '42, was presented with a 
frame scroll as Columbus' ''Notre Dame Man of 
the Year" award. I feel certain that all of tis 
heartilv afiproved of the selection. 
FxVTHER STANLEY PARRY, CS.C , of the 
Political Science Department, was our honored 
S^chl speaker and gave us niucli to think about on 
the subject of "Personal Responsibility." 
Tlic affair was then closed at 10:45 p.m. 
The Club has been recently advised that DAN 
HALLERAN, '55, D.AVID HAGANS, '55, VIRGIL 
TLVARDINI, '3Q, GARY BALL, *38, PHIL 
CVREY, '40, and JOHN E. JOHNSON, '49, have 
come into our Club's territorv-. 
—DICK KASBERG, *48, Prcs. 

Connecticut Valley 
Our Universal N.D. Night was held April 13 at the Waverly Inn, Cheshire, Conn. KE^^N J. BRENN/\N of AVest Hartford received the "Man of the Year" award from JOHN F. ROBINSON, '28. Mr. Brennan, .'. non-alumnus, was honored for his outstanding ^vork as a Catliollc la>'man. Club officers for 1961 are: JIM FLAHERTY, '53, president; BOB McGOLDRICK, '56, \-ice-prcsident; TED PAULING, '52, secretary-; and ROGER TREMBLAY, '55, treasurer. 
—J.AMES F. FLAHERTY, Prcs. 

Dearborn 
Recent activities in Dearborn, Mich., include the Annual St. Patrick's Day Dinner, complete with 
•green suds, on Wednesday, March 15. Refresh­ments from 5 p.m. preceded dinner at 7 p.m. at the new "Marty Kelly's." Freshman Coach 
HUGH DEVORE was the featured celebrity, ^vith 
GEORGE TOBIN and E.MORY DAKOSKE^ 
handling arrangements. 
The April meeting was held at the Dakoskc home, 
with nomination of 1961-62 officers the main order 
of business. New officers will be announced shortly. 
Dallas 
Tlie Universal Notre Dame Night here in Dallas 
was held on April 6, 1961, at the Statler-Hilton 
Hotel. The party began wiili cocktails, followed 
shortly with dinner. 
At the close of dinner. Club business started 
with brief reports from all contmitlec heads. One 
of these reports named the following officers to 
control the club's business from present to April 
of 1962: MARTY O'CONNOR, president; HENRY 
NEUHOFF, HI, first rice-president; CHARLES 
BUTLER, second vice-president; DON ILVRRIS, 
sccretar\-, and DICK LaJOlE, treasurer. ^ 
It Is my pleasure to announce that Mr. RICH-% ARD J. BAKER, President of W. A. Green Com­pany of Dallas tvas given the Dallas Notre Dame Club's Man of the Year Award. Mr. Baker is a graduate of Notre Dame, a Dallas civic leader and an outstanding Catholic Layman. His civic achieve­ments include the following positions: vice-chairman for special gifts. Community Cbest, I960; campaign cliairman, Dallas County Community Chest, 1959; member, Dallas County Screening Committee; di­rector. Council of Social Agencies; director. Belter Business Bureau; member, Dallas Citizens Council; director. National Retail Mercliants j\ssociation; director of Ad^isorj* Board, SaK-ation .Army; board of directors, Dallas Theater Ccjilcr; board of di­rectors, Dallas Civic Opera; president. Catholic Charities; 1st vice-president, Texas Retail Dr>' Goods .Association; membership chairman, 1961, and board of directors. YMCA. Mr. Baker is married and has four children. ^ 
Our principal speaker and honored guest was JOE KUH,\RICH. We of the Notre Dame Club were thrilled to have the coach. His talk touched each one present. Notre Dame is well-represented by JOE KUHARICH. 
Th last point of business at the well-attended parly was to tbank the outgoing administration for a job well done. 
—DON HARRIS, Sccv. 

Decatur 
At the annual dinner meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Decatur, Illinois, beld last October, the following Were elected officers and directors lor the year 1961: J/VMES A. UHL, President; AM­BROSE MORAN, JR., Treasurer; EUGENE F. FORAN, Secretary-; WILLIAM T. DOWNING, Director; J. J. MOR.AN, JR., Director; STEVE# GRALIKER, Director. 
On February- I, 1961, JIM UHL called an or­ganizational meeting to plan the year's events. Plans were made for our annual St. Patrick's Day Party, Universal Notre Dame Night, annual stag and golf outing, dinner meeting and Communion Breakfast. 
The first event on the calendar was our annual observance of cver>' Irishman's favorite day. ^\M­BROSE (BUZ) MORAN 5er\ed as chairman of the dance again this year and the usual results were attained, another fun-filled evening with ex­cellent music and appropriate decor in the Hotel Orlando Ballroom. 
The Club obscrx'cd Uni»"crsal ^otrc Dame Night on April II, 1961. EUGE.\E F. FOILVN, JR. was cliairman of this event, held at the Blue Mill Res­taurant. On this evening the Club presented the '*Man of the Year" award. The recipient, wilh-^ iield at this writing for security reasons, will be announced next Issue. 
MILT BEAUDINE volunteered to contact the membership in our cflfort to attain a one-hundred percent iiontribution record in the 19tli Alumnt Fund Drive. 
Tlie members were deeply saddened by the death of .NHLT BEAUDINE's father, Milton J. Beaudine, Sr. We met at Moran's Funeral Home on March 21 to recite the rosar>- In his bclialf. Mr. Beaudin'e was an Honorary Life Member of the Club. He was active in its afTairs and we always enjoyed his company and conversation at our monthly luncheon meetings at tlie Elk's Club. 
Delaware 
DEAN FREDERICK D. ROSSINI of the college of Sdence and BISHOP MICHAEL AV. HYLE oM| ^^^lmlngton were speakers for Universal Notre Dame Night April 4. JAMES J. CARBERRY of 
the DuPont Company, who will join the faculty in the fall, introduced Dean Rossini. Club PrcsJ-
Vdent JAMES J. COLEMAN was toastmaster and WILLIAM D. BAILEY, JR., was toastmaster for the dinner-dance, attended by approximately 100 alumni and guests. 
Denver 
The annual election meeting of the Denver Club was held March 21. CARL EIBERGER, '32, was rc-clccicd as Club president. He is believed to be liie first so rc-clcctcd In the llilrly-ycar Club historv. BOB TEIS, '54, is the new «cc president; JIM COUGHLIN, '57, treasurer; and MIKE HALLI­GAN, '32, secretary-. New directors arc GERRY SMITH, '27, JIM SHEEHAN, '50; DR. PHIL CLARKE, '44, and DR. EDWARD DELEHANTY, '29. FRANK CONWAY, '27, was chairman of the nominating committee. Universal Notre Dame Night was held April 13 
^a t the swank Denver Club. JLM ARMSTRONG, 
^hi s wife, and a taped talk by FATHER HES­BURGH highlighted the dinner dance. Bishop Maloncy and Msgr. Jones, superintendent of parochial schools, were honored guests as was Supreme Court Justice AL T. FR/\NTZ, '29. The Governor could not come at the last minute. 
The annual club scholarship was presented as were the Rockne trophies to the slate parochial football and basketball champions. The Man-of­ihe-Vcar auard ucnt to TO.M TIERNEY, '40, head of the Blue Cross-Blue Shield in this area. GERRY SMITH, *27, TOM GAIG.AN, '49, and PHIL CLARKE, '44, made up the award com­mittee. JIM LOGAN, '18, Foundation Governor, explained the foundation work to the gathering. CARL EIBERGER, '52, was chairman of the event. 
Future activities include the sports luncheon, 

• picnic, cocktail party and rafilc for the scholar­ship, industrial trips, bi-monthly discussion club meetings and monthly luncheons. GENE BLISH, '34, is head of a committee studying club elec­tions and organizational structure. The scholarship committee for this year's award included JI.M SHEEHAN, '50, JIM COUGHLIN, '57, DR. ED DELEHANTY, '29, ART GREGORY, '37, JOHN MOR.\N, JR., '52, .MSGR. GEORGE EVANS, '44, and CARL EIBERGER, '54. BOB ZEIS, '54, has been active in organizing a discussion club. Tlie first lecture-discussion was recently held pertaining to a sociological study of "The Negro in ^Werica." It was conducted by DR. ROBERT EDMUNDSON, '56, head of the socioiosY department of Loretlo Heights College, New directors are GERRY SMITH, *27, JIM SHEEHxVN, '50, DR. PHIL CLASKE, '44, and DR. EDWARD DELEHANTY, '29. 9 Future discussions w*ill include one on Freudian Psycliolog>- conducted by DR. EDU'ARD DELE­H.ANTY, '29, and others on speed reading and philosophy. These discussions are intended to continue and stimulate intellectual activity by the Club members after they leave the University. 
The Continental-Denver was tlie scene of the annual Christmas dance. Fifty student and alumni couples attended. RAY TRITZ was chairman. The Club president attended the Council of Club Presidents in Januar>" at the University. 
—Rx\Y TRITZ, Secy. 

Des Moines 
On Tuesday, March 21, 1961, JOE BISIGNANO and JOE JOYCE showed the movie *'Notre Dame," to the juniors at DowHng High School in Des ^^oincs and spoke briefly and answered their ques-
Ptions about the University. 
On April 5, 1961, in the aflcnioon, JOE BI­SIGNANO met with students at Roosevelt High School, Des Moines, who expressed an interest in the University. 
ni e next event on the club schedule was Uni­versal Notre Dame Night at Hotel Fort Des Moines, April 29, when FR. JOHN WALSH, di­rector of the N.D. Foundation was principal speaker, and ALEX WILSON and the Notre Danic tnck team were honored guests. Co-chairmen were 
' >ARLETON BEH, JR., and JIM HAM.MER. —JOSEPH B. JOYCE, Secy. 
Detroit 
The Notre Dame Club of Detroit held its annual meeting at Botsford Inn Marcli 16, 1961. BILL RONEY was chairman for this activity. Nomina-Btions for the Board of Directors were taken at 'thi s meeting and the ballots for the election were mailed to tlic general membership. TIiosc elected 
to the Board were announced at Notre Dame Uni­versal Night. The Notre Dame Club of Detroit held its 38th Annual Universal Notre Dame Night on April 18, 1961, at the Latin Quarter, Detroit, Michigan. Chairmen for this activity were RAY 
J. BONINI and EDWARD J. GILBERT. FATHER THEODORE HESBURGH was the principal speak­er and HERBERT W. HART, Detroit Commis­sioner of Policy, acted as toastmaster. DON HERRON has been appointed chairman for the Annual Golf Party. To date, definite plans for this function have not been established. Details concerning this affair will be mailed to the general membership well in advance of the Party. 
—THOMAS J. VERBIEST, SCQ-. 

Eastern Illinois 
Tlie Eastern Illinois Notre Dame Club met on Monday evxning, April 3, 1961 at Connors Drive In Restaurant at 6:30 p.m. Tliis was the Annual Universal Notre Dame Night meeting. Twenty-six members, wives and guests attended the event. A social hour proceeded the dinner. 
FATHER MOTSETT of the class of 1931 gave the invocation. Tlic treasurer's and secretary's reports were read and accepted by the club. .-Vfter the introduction of wives and guests the Nomi­nating Committee made the following recommen­dations for officers of the Club for 1961: President, RALPH DALTON of Danville; Vice-President, TOM BOTT of Danrille; Secretary, FR*\NK Mc-GOUGH of Danville; and Treasurer, ERNEST SEDALYMER of Danville. 
Plans were made for a bus trip to the Notre Dame-Purdue game at Lafayette, Indiana on Octo­ber 7. JOHN BELTON is in charge of tickets, LESLIE RtVHNER in charge of food and refrcsli­mcnts, and LESTER FAHEY in charge of ticket sales. 
JOHN SABINE, a Fulbright scholar from Mel­bourne, Australia, who is attending the University of Illinois at Urbana, Illinois gave a very inter­esting talk with his subject "The World is My Suburb." An open discussion period was held after the talk and there were many fine questions and answers brought out during this period. 
—R.\LPH J. DALTON, Secy. 

El Paso 
Universal Xotre Dame Night was celebrated in El Paso this year on April 15, wilh REV. H.\ROLD 
J. R.\H.M, S.J., Director of Our Lady's Youth Center, speaking on individual responsibility in the modern world. A good turnout was assured. 
At a recent meeting new olEcers of the local alumni organization were elected. The results: ED JENNINGS, president; JIM FORD, vice-presi­dent; JACK HADDOX, secretary-treasurer. 
Plans are being made for a concerted effort to contact and welcome to the group any Notre Dami 
graduates who might be stationed here at For 
Bliss. 
—JOHN H. HADDOX, Secr.-Tnai 

Erie 
At our election meeting held in March the Erii Club voted into ofHcc the following, who too] office April 10 at our Universal Notre Dame Ni^i affair: President, RAY.MOND W. LEGLEK, 'S7 Vice President, ANTHONY J. ZAMBROSKI, '52 Secretary, WILLIAM DWYER, '33; and Treasurer EDW.ARD A. KERN, '36. 
Two membets of the Board of Directors wen 
re-elected — RICHARD D . D.ALEY, '17, and LEC 
J. BRUGGER, '34. The remaining directors, wfa< were not up for election this vear are RICHARE 
T. JlJcCORMICK, '55; EDWARD A. KERN, '56 JOSEPH C. BARBER, '36; and JOHN S. YOUNG, '31. 
—JOHN J. McCORMICK, JR.. '53, Retiring Prcs. 

Flint 
Election of officers for the coming year wa< held at a dinner meeting March 7, 1961, and the following were elected: President, LA^VRENCE C S,\XE; First Vice-President, THEODORE »MNS. OUR; Second Vice-President, WALTER G.NAGEL; Secretary-Treasurer, T. GERALD RANDALL; and Trustees, DR. DANIEL H. SHEERAN, DR. VOL­LIA.M E. MACKSOOD, LEON HART, and VICTOR E. GEORGE. 
The outgoing Secretary-Treasurer reported a gift of ?1,000.00 from the Club to the University for the nctv librao'. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated at the Flint Golf Club on April 12, 1961. FR. JAMES MORAN was the principal speaker and gave a very fine talk on the problems of sifting out 1500 Freshmen from 4500 applications. 
Coach JACK PRATT from local St. Matthew's parish was universally selected as Man of the Year for 1961. Attending from the Notre Dame Club were VICTOR GEORGE, THONUS HAL-LIG.AiV, PAUL C. HUGHES, RAYMOND J. KELLY, DON MacDONALD, JR.; ROBERT .MacDONALD, WILLIA.M E. IkLACKSOOD, AL and TED MANSOUR, TED MANVAK, JOE O'KOPIEN, Secretary T. GERALD RANDALL, President LARRY SAXE, JIM SHERRY, JR.; HERBERT and ROBERT SIBILSKY. In charge of arrangements %verc TIM H.ALLIGAN assisted by-BOB SIBILSKY. In all 150 attended. Chicken dinner was served and dancing followed. 
—T. G. RANDALL, Secr.-Tnai. 

Fort Lauderdale 
The annual St. Patrick's Day Dinner-Dance on March 17 in the Gosernor's Club Hotel Ballroom 
SAN FERNANDO VALLEY—Club-sponsorcd  Married Couples Retreat at Our Lady of 
Perpetual Help was held in a setting only suggested in this photo courtesy o{ Gerry Traf­ficanda, '57. Identification of participants can be found in the Club report. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 17 
vfsa a huge success ^^'ith approximately 300 at­tendins. 
Charlie Spivak and his orchestrOj of Xotre Dome campus fame, pronded some faiic>* Irish jig tunes and dance music for the local Alumni and friends. 
The green beer, whidi served as *'table deco­ration," ^vas a big hit wJtli all, especially with the JOHN McGINNs, *54; the DON DORINIs, '53; the TOM >VALKERs, '42; the JOHN CALLANs, *2l; the GEORGE ERNSTs, '29; the JERRY FINNEYs, '54; the BOB GOREs, '31; and the FRANK McDONOUGHs. '41. 
FLORIDA STATE COX\^XTION Tills year the Notre Dame Florida State Con­vention ^^-as held at the Beach Club Hotel in Naples, Florida, on April 21, 22 and 23. The Convention, a joint enterprise \rith assistance com­ing from the Palm Beach and Miami Clubs, proved as in the past to be a week-end of fun and re­laxation. DICK AMULEN, '42, chairman of the Convention and of the Fort Lauderdale Club, along with JOHN McGINN, '54, and BILL MAUS, Jr.. '53, promised the best ever. JIM SMITH, '48, President of the Miami Club, was in charge of the competitive activities such as golf, tennis, etc DAN DO^VNEY, '44, Palm Beach, vs-as in charge of Friday night fcstirities. At the Seventh Annual Convention representatives from Notre Dame Clubs all over the State con­vened to \'isit and relax for three sun-filled dsys of fun. Some cagcr-beaven arrived Thursday and didn't leave imtil Monday. Tournaments scheduled included golf, fishing, shufildjoard, and bo^vling-on-thc-grccn. Trophies were won by the follou*ing: Golf (Callo^^•av scoring) — BILL MAUS, JR., Ft. Lauderdale, and MR . JIM DOWNEY, Pahn Beach; (Blind-Bogey) — DAN DOW'NEY, Palm Beach, and Mrs. JIM SMITH, Miami: Fishinc — JOHN McGINN, Pompano and WTLLARD MOSS, Ft. Lauderdale; Shufilcboard — RAY POPP, Miami, and Mrs, URBAN KOKENGE, Miami; Bowling-on-the-grecn — URBAN KOKENGE, Miami and Helen Daws, Ft. J^uderdalc. Social actiritics included a square dance and football mowes after dinner Friday night, a mid­night barbecue on the Gulf of Mexico, celebration of Universal Notre Dame nicht with a cocktail part>', dinner and dancing. Honored guest speakers were FATHER BOARM.\N, representing the Uni­versity, and Mr. HARRY MEHRE, outstanding center on the Notre Dame football teams of '20 and '21, who has coached at the University of Georgia and the Univcrsit>" of ilississippi and now residing in Atlanta, Georgia. A special Mass was said for the conventioneers Sunday morning, and, after, a delicious buffet luncheon. Sunday afternoon the tournament trophies Avere awarded. A measure of the convention's success was the 
number of inquiries about next year's convention to which many of us arc already looking forward. —TOM MAUS, '57, Secy. 
Fort Wayne 
HARRY HOGAX, the retired bankcr-lawTcr who organized the Notre Dame Foundation, and RICH.\RD DOERMER, a banker prominent In local Church and ci^ic affairs, received special honors at Fort ^Vayne's Universal Notre Dame Night on April 20. Docrmer, president of Indiana Bank & Trust, v%'as named Notre Dame ^fan of the Year. He received a scroll from HENRY HASLEY, last year's vx-inner. Mr. Hogan received a special citation from the University, presented by REV. JOHN E. WALSH, C.S.C., director of the Foundation, who paraphrased the citation: '"Whose pioneering organizational genius in 1947 opened new and \-ital \^tas of development for his Alma Mater." Principal speaker at the din­ner \vas REV. WILLIAM NEIDHART, C.S.C., assistant superior of Moreau Scminar>' and a native of Fort ^Vayne. ROBERT O'REILLY was chair­man and master of ceremonies for the dinner, at­tended by 130 alumni and wives at Orchard Ridge Country Club. 
The Fort U'a^me Club held its annual Communion Breakfast on Sunday, December 11, Msgr. Wil­liam J. Lester, superintendent of Catholic schools for the Diocese, ^^-as the principal speaker for this affair and followed the Universit>''s request by presenting a very fine discussion on *'EcumcnrcaI Cotmcil," its origin, and its growth. Mr. JOSEPH DANIELS and ^-oiu^ truly were co-chairmen of the affair. 
President PAUL SCHIRMEYER distributed tickets for the N*D \-s. Indiana basketball game played at the Coliseum in Fort \Vaj-nc on Deccm­
J8 NotTe Dame Alumnus, June, 1962 

DALLAS—Officers and guests for IJ^.D. Night in "Big D" included: (foreground, I.-r.) Walter Fleming, president of the national Alumni Assn.; Marty O'Connor, Dallas Club president-elect; John Brogan, retiring president; (back, l.-r.) Dick Lajoie, treasurer; Joe Kuharich, N.D. head football coach; Don Harris, secretary; and Henry Neuhoff HI, 1st 
\'ice-prcsident. Charles Butler, 
ber 20. The game \vas \vcll attended by ND 
alumni and students, which fact was bom out 
after tlic game by the attendance in the Hospitality 
Room, co-sponsored by Gunnan Elliot. A real fine 
ex'cning's entertainment ^vas provided all who 
attended. Only an N.D. win could have improved 
the evening. 
Due to the President's meeting to be held in 
January, 1961, President Scliirmcyer held the elec­
tion of officers at the Communion Breakfast with 
the following results: BOB LUTHER, President; 
J. D.\NIELS and KEN SEYMOUR, Vice Presi­dents; JERRY HIPSKIND, Secretary, and DAS aVSTRO, Treasurer. AL YOUNGHAUS was also elected to the Board ol Directors. 
Incidentally, Dan Castro is alumni representa­tive on the committee for the Christmas Dance to be held December 28. 
—ROBERT LUTHER, Pres. 
Hawaii 
To bring you up to date on the Notre Dame Club of Alohaland, Honolulu newspapers were very generous in their publicity for the eight-week free course on the Ecumenical or Second Vatican Council, sponsored by the N.D. Club at Chaminadc College. Having attended the meetings, I might say that I have found the course to be very enlightening and worthwhile. Judging from the sustained attendance, I feel that I am not alone in this judgment. 
Our celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night was held on Friday evening, April 14, at the Pacific Club, a rather exclusive set-up here of which TOM FLYNN is a member. As several noted, the event represented the fruition of tlie efforts of \-arious Club members here in the islands through the years. ^Vc were signally honored to have as our guest speaker. His Excellency the Most Reverend JANtES S^VEENEY, Bishop of Honolulu, who addressed the group on "Personal Responsibility." Tlierc were some 71 in attendance, I believe the largest gathering to date for our Hawaii Club. A word ^^'as spoken in behalf of the Notre Dame Foundation by TOM FLYNN, vou will be interested to know. Also present was our new cliaplain, REV. THONL\S TENNISSEN, 
M.M. All in all, a ver^* happy occasion. 
—DONALD C. .MACHADO, Pres. 
Houston 
Over 100 alumni and friends of Notre Dame gathered at River Oaks Country Club April 5, 1961 to meet JOE KUHARICH, x-isiting Houston for Universal Notre Dame Night. TOM BREN­N.AN, '43, was M.C. for the affair. LEIGHTON 
F. YOUNG, *37, was dcser\-ingly honored as Notre Dame Man of the Year for his outstanding yvork for the Church and the community. Mr. Young 

 2nd Wcc-president, is not shon'n. 
is vice-president of rlie National Bank of Com-Q mcrcc in Houston. His son, LEIGHTON YOUNG, JR., is a 1959 N.D. graduate. The award was presented by the Houston Club President, Lf\RRY KELLEY, '42, who is rapidly reacliing fame as a Hockley, Texas, chicken magnate. 
The Houston Area alumni are also proud of LARRY S.\HA, '58, who is in Rome studying for the Priesthood. He is to be ordained there in 1962. Larry has a brother, Mark, at Notre Dame and another planning to attend this year. 
—E. D. McCRORY, JR., Scc>-. 

Indianapolis 
During the Easter vacation, the graduating Notre Dame seniors attended an informal recep­tion introducing them to the Notre Dame Alumni from Indianapolis. This annual meeting sen'csij many good purposes to the seniors that do not head South for the \-acation. 
Tlie 38th Annual Obscr\-ance of the Universal Notre Dame Night was held .April 10 at the Indi­anapolis xUhletic Club by over 260 people. This large crowd \v-as given a ver>- well planned pro­gram which included FATHER JOHN E. WALSH, the new Foundation Director, and A\1LLIAM R. BURKE, '42, present .American Legion National Commander, as the very fine principal speakers. 
Other guests that attended were the Most Rev. Paul C. Schulte, Archbishop of Indianapolis, and the priests and brothers from the local high schools. 
Outgoing President, PATRICK FITZGERALD, '52, announced during the dinner the officers for 1961-62. The new officers arc: President, WIL­LLAM S.AHM, '51; Vice-President, F. QUINN, '42; Secretary*, JAMES WELCH, '50; and RICH-iJ ARD OWENS, '42, the "permanent Treasurer.'"* The top three posts %\'crc obtained by these men in a close race with JOHN ViVN BENTON, '44, CRARLES STIMMING, '53, and THOMAS O'BRIEN, *53, respectively. ^\*ILLI.AM KEN­NEDY, '42, and DR. PAUL MULLER, '37, were elected directors over GEORGE USHER, '45, and BERNARD McKAY, '42. 
The annual Club scholarship vrinner was pre­sented to the crowd after the officers were an­nounced. HAROLD J. POKEL will attend Notre Dame for four years with the help of our Scholar­ship Fund. JOSEPH F. HOFFMAN won a scliolar­ship from the University and he was also pre­sented to the audience. Both boys are graduating seniors from Cathedral High School. 
DR. THONLAS CARNEY, '37 again did a tre­mendous job by serring as toastmaster, and AVC hope he takes the job every year. The entire com-^ mittee did a very fine Job and all are to be con ^ gratulated. 
At the end of the wcU-handled program, one 

^ of the annual hishlights is the award to the 
^ alumnus who has reflected outstanding credit on the University. The selection committee, composed of JOHN O'CONNOR, *38, immediate past na­tional Alumni President; JACK ELDER, '30, im­mediate past Monogram President; and DR. CARNEY, made the presentation. These three past winners awarded the Man-of-thc-Ycar for 1961 to the very pleasantly surprised general chairman for the evening, ROBERT V. \VELCH, '50. This ver>­popular decision came just one week after BOB U*£LCH t(*as named the largest residential builder for 1960 in the entire United States among his many other accomplishments that were announced. (Editor's note: Sounds like this secretary works for Bob! He docs.) 
Enjoyed writing this article for the past t%\0 years and I know JIM WELCH will keep you well informed about doings in Indianapolis. Thanks for reading this far. 
P —BILL McGOWAN, JR., *57, Secy. 
Joliet 
The Notre Dame Club of Joliet has reorganized and, once again, is making active plans to place itself among the more prominent clubs in the country, a position it once enjoyed. 
At a recent meeting of the Club, officers elected for 1961 were: GENE FUNK, president; WAYNE VERCELLOTTI, w"cc-presidcnt; and RICHARD COYNE, secrelar^'-trcasurer. 
Immediate plans for the Club included: .April, Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner; May, Com­munion breakfast; July, Golf Outing; and October, Football Smoker. 
—JOHN R. MINZING, M8 

 Kansas City 
JIM ARMSTRONG and MAURICE CVRROLL were the honored guests and speakers at Universal Notre Dame Night, April 5 at the Embassey Res­taurant. Tlie ninety members and guests were treated to a memorable evening mLxcd •with nos­talgia, as they discussed the new image of Notre Dame. JOE STEWART received a plaque in rec­ognition of ser\'ice on the Alumni Board. JOHN ^L\SS^L\N, dub president, and Mrs. N0IOL\N GORDON, president of the Auxiliary, presented Jim with checks for tlie Library Fund. 
The new officers for 1961-62 arc JOHN MASS­MAN, president; JIM HIGGINS, 1st V. P.; 2nd 
V. P. U HAROLD SOLOMONj CARL ERFF­MEYER, secrctao-; Asst. Sec is BUD SHAUGH­NESSEY; and CHARLES O'NEILL, treasurer. The board of directors now consist of ROBERT METZ­LER. TOM RErVRDON, JOE VAS DYKE, JIM 
» DE COURSEY, CR.\IG WHITAKER, CHUCK FRIZZELL and JOE STEWART. 
Murray Warmath received the Coach of the Year award from the Rockne Club on ^farch 4 at the Hotel Phillips. DR. D. M. NIGRO, Club President, announced the moving of the Rockne monument from Bazzar, Kansas to a more suitable place on the Kansas Turnpike. The cost of mov­ing the monument is to be borne by the Rockne Club and contributions may be sent to CHARLES METZLER, Mercantile Bank, 1119 Walnut, Kansas City, Missouri. 
JIM SCHAAF joined the Kansas City Athletics as traveling secretary. CONNIE MACK III con­tinues with the new ou'ners as ticket promotion chief. New faces in the club include U'ARREN GENDA back from the army; MIKE HOGAN of Hallmark returned from a year in London for his employers. Other ND'ers at Hallmark include DON WALZ and MIKE FEENEY. We would like to end our last report for the ALUMNUS with this exciting election report. . . . BOB METZLER was re-elected police judge of Mission Woods, Kansas, by an overwhelming majority. 
—G. JIM HIGGINS, Ret. Secy, 

Kentucky 
The winter season ti-ith its oi'crcost skies had somewhat dampened the enthusiasm of the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky, but the first signs of spring stirred us to life again. A Communion Breakfast in March was the first Club activity of I96I. JOE BOWLING, '52, is being reu^irtlcd for his efforts by increasing attendance at these quar­terly events. The summer breakfast is scheduled for June 4. This is a good chance for all the "brethren" to "kill two birds" — promote Catholic action by receiving communion in a body with fellow ND men, and beat the mob to the golf course by attending early mass. 
The Club held its spring quarter meeting at the Audubon Country Club. Many new and welcome faces were on hand for a renew of 1960 and a preview of 1961. Two new members were intro­duced to the Club: JACK ZUFELT, '57, an engi­neer with Du Pont recently transferred from Montague, Michigan; and RUSS RfVQUE, '60, a recent graduate now working ^vith his father. 
Tlie enthusiasm which had been building up at the \'arious Club activities reached its peak on April 15 at which time the Club celebrated Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. The evening \vas an outstanding success and a tribute to FR. HES­BURGH, our guest speaker. Over 300 people crowded into tlie Cr>'stal Ballroom of the Brown Hotel in Louisville to hear FR. HESBURGH talk on "Personal Responsibility." ifr. Wilson W>*att, lieutenant governor of Kentucky, was on hand to confer the honorary title of "Kentucky Colonel" on Fr. Hesburgh. A gold key to the city was presented to our guest speaker by Mayor Bruce Hoblitzell. Other distinguished guests who helped US honor Notre Dame included County Judge Van Arsdale, Bishop Charles Maloncy, and the principals of the five local Catholic high scliools. During the evening the officers for 1961 were an­nounced. They arc: President, J.\CK MUELLER, '52; First Vice President, a\R L Rr\TTERMx\N, '37; Second Vice President, JACK DOUGHERTY, *49; Secretary-, TOM BR/\ND, '55; Treasurer, RONNIE MAZZOLI, '54; Board of Directors, LEO BROWN, '50 and BOB \nLLE.\BRINK, *50. 
One of the highlights of the evening was the presentation of the Man-of-thc-Ycar Award to LEO BRO^^'N, '50. Tlie award is just a small token of our appreciation for Leo's efforts during the past several years. 
The evening was brought to close with the presentation of a pledge of $1000 from the Club to Father Hesburgh for the Notre Dame Founda­tion. All who attended this event deemed it an outstanding success. The Club gives a vote c thanks to jn f CAREY, '51, and LEO BROWN '50, who were co-chairmen of this event. Thci tireless efforts, along with those of JIM HENNES SEY, '51, who headed the Sponsor Coimnittee an' JOE BRIDE, '57, our publicity chairman, heipe to make UND night a highlight of the year. 
All Club members are encouraged to keep u the spirit w*hich has been shou-n to date. Th next event on our schedule is a retreat at th Abbey of Our Lady of Gethsemani on June 26-lE Contact BILL WEUTCHER, '52, for reser\-ation! 
Lehigh Valley 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held April at the Hotel Bethlehem in Bethlehem, Pa. Th affair was attended by approximately 200 people The guest speaker was DR. J. W. CULUTON Dean of the College of Commerce at Notre Dam< A "Man of the Year" award was presented t MR. J. BOWLING AVILLS, an Allentou-n bus! ncssman and alumnus of Yale who has exempli fied a high degree of Christian leadership in th local community during the past year. Th presentation %vas made by the club prcsiden DAVE LANGLEY, *49. Chairman for the oc casiott was BERT DADAY, '52. Honored guest also attending included the mayors of Allentown Bethlehem, and Easton. New officers for 196 were installed. Serving will be LOU \VYNNE, '51 President; AL DONIUS, *54, Vice President; BOl STRALEY, *53, Secretary; and VINCE KOHL, '58 Treasurer. 
—BOB STRALEY, '53, Secj 

Lexington 
Lexington, Ky., alumni were successful in gettim MONSIGNOR LEO WILSON to speak to u regarding the theme of Universal Notre Dam Night. We had an excellent turnout at the Tate Creek Country Club with the following people Mr. MICH.\EL CONLON, Mr. and Mrs. TEI DeBAINE, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN R. G.AINES, Mr EDAVARD L. HAGEN, Mr. EDWARD L H.\GEN, JR.; Mr. J.\MES M. McGOWAN, Mr and Mrs. GERALD .McGlNNIS, Mr. and Mrs MICILVEL MOYER, Mr. and Mrs. FRANK J QUINN, Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE S\VISHER, Mr and .\frs. ^VILLIAM D. TAFEL, and Mr. LAWR ENCE X. TARPEY. 
Tliere appears to be about 22 grads in th Lexington area. Set up a committee to direct th forming of a club here and you w-ill be hearini from us shortly. 
—^VILLLVM D. T.AFEI 

Los Angeles 
Guess it's time for a summary of what's beei going on. The first half of April was a busy on< for us — but at least it took our minds off o the income txx problem: 
I. TTie baseball team played three games in thi area: S.C., UCLA and Loyola. LEO TURGEO> and I met the team and saw them safely beddec at Loyola. Next day (Monday, 4/3) I saw then lose to SC in the 9th inning. We had a Sport Dinner for them that evening, and a dinner a 
IS 

' TERRE HAUTE—Shot of the throng at Universal Notre Dame Night dinner-dance in the Wabash Room of the Terre Haute House Rev. Robert Pclton, C.S.C, head of the theology department, (upper left) was the prindpal speaker. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 
I Nickodcll's the following night. j 2. The Glee Club gave three concerts in the area. AL W£LZ£N'B.^CH and I caught the first 
! one at Occidental (4/8) and tho' sounded great. Got a kick out of their rexiv'al of "The Italian Salad." Had a nice \Tsit with DAN PEDTKE and the bo>'s. 
3.
 We held our annual general meeting April 6 and re-elected ED FOX and CHUCK STINE as directors, this time for a three-year term. 

4.
 We had a very successful UND night .^pril 



12. This i&sue has a picture of tlic afTair. \Vc started off ^ith FATHER HESBURGH's tape. I am certain that whoever selected the "Personal Responsibility" tlicme would have been happy at the way it was treated here with four prominent speakers. Gaii Patrick is a real charmer and the crowd loved her. Tlie film went over big — and my acting as M.C. didn't seem to do too much damage. 
—MORT GOODM.AN, Pres. 

Maine 
The Notre Dame Alumni .\ssociation of Maine was pleased to welcome the Concert Band of tlic University to Lctnston on Saturday, April 8. Tlie concert ^\"as a fabulous success with cverv'onc en­joying it immensely and the newspapers giving ii rave renews. 
Tlic financial end also «*as good and wc have added substantially to our scliolarship fund. With such a small number of alumni we ivcre pleased indeed that many friends came to our assistance and by means of patrons we were able to assure our­selves a profit before the concert started. 
ROBERT O'BRIEN and his Notre Dame Band surely did tlie University proud and made us, of the outskirt alumni, feel closer than ever to our Alma Mater. 
Wc •were pleased to note that we were one of the fwv alumni clubs to actually sponsor the Notre Dame Band and that fact tliat it proved to be a profitable venture should certainly alert other clubs to this fine source of revenue. 
—R.\Y GEIGER, Sec>-. 

Manila 
During his recent trip to the Far East, PATRICK C PEYTON, C.S.C., of ihc Family Rosary Cm­sade, revisited the Philippines for ten days, ^^lle^ he arrived at the airport, he was gfected by mem­bers of the Notre Dame Club of Manila among others, whereupon he asked the President of the club to call a meeting of the club because he wanted to thank them personally for the Philippine furniture that had arrived and graced the Family Theater in Los Angeles. 
Tlic fund-raising project had started soon after Fr. Peyton's first meeting with tlie Notre Dame Club of Manila in November 1959. Tlirough the generous and collective participation of the mem­bers of the club, the necessary amount was raised to buy the furniture which was supplied at cost by GONZALO PUYAT and Sons Co., and shipped to Los Angeles with the compliments of Mr. A, V. ROCHA, president of C. F. Sharp & Co. 
In thanking the N.D. Club of Manila, Fr. Pey­ton was profuse with his praise and admiration for the response to hb request for Philippine fur­niture. Mr. EDUARDO ROXAS, chairman of the committee for the project, was singled out for his unselfish cfTorts and his generous personal con­tribution. Fr. Peyton's parting message was a challenge to the Manila Club to continue along the program of Catholic leadership. 
—L/\WRENCE J. GOTUACO 

McHeniy County 
Our Notre Dame Club of McHenry County, lU., observed its first Universal Notre Dame Night on Thursday, April 20, at a dinner meeting attended by about 50 members and their guests. GEORGE CONNOR of Chicago was our special guest and principal speaker, and he covered the topic of pergonal responsibility in excellent fashion. 
Among our guests were two bo>-s who ^vilI be attending Notre Dame in the fall, Tom Harding of Woodstock and Ricliard Holthaus of Har\-ard. 
In the business portion of the meeting, two new directors were elected: THOMAS J. P.\RSLEV and WILLIAM J. RILEY, JR., of Cr>stal Lake. Tlic directors then met and elected their ofhcer^ for the yean GEORGE K. COSTELLO of Crystal Lake, president; PAUL McCONNELL of Wood­stock, \icc-presidcnt; and THOMAS J. PARSLEY of Cr>-stal Lake, secretary-treasurer. REVEREND 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA—The Golden Gate chapters gathered for U.N.D, Night in Redwood City to hear from this distinguished assemblage: (I.-r.) William Shine, out­going president; LawTcncc T. (Buck) Shaw, veteran football coach, presented with a special plaque to honor his "code of personal responsibility"; Dr. Walter LaBergc, Philco missile scientist named as Notre Dame- Man of the Year; guest speaker Edward (Moose) Krause, N.D. athletic director; and William McGowan, president-elect. 
THOMAS E. BRADY, -59, was rc-clectcd chaplain. Milwaukee Athletic Club. A cocktail hour pre­
Just for the record, the Notre Darners in at­ceded the dinner. tendance at Universal Notre Dame Night were as folloxvs: ANDY BALDONI, GEORGE COSTELLO, JOE CONERTY, BILL CARROLL, JR., FRED 
New Haven 
KELLER, PHIL RILEY, BILL RILEY, JR.; TOM The Notre Dame .Alumni Club of New Haven, RILEY, JIM WELT2IE.N*, FATHER THO^LVS Connecticut, held its Annual Family Corporate BRADY, TOM PARSLEY, VERNON KNOX, Communion and Communion Breakfast on Sunday, HAROLD KNOX, AMLLIAM DESMOND, and Februar>* 26. Tlic Corporate Communion was held PAUL McCONNELL. at St. Bemadctte's Churcli and the Communion 
—JOSEPH A. CONERT\', JR., 

Breakfast at Marra's Mariner Restaurant. Judge HAROLD J. LAMBOLEY, Supreme Advocate of Retiring Pres. 
the Knights of Columbus and the father of Francis LamboIc%-, a sophomore at Notre Dame, was the Mid-Hudson Valley speaker at the breakfast. Secretary- CHARLES J. | DUCEV, '28, was the Master of Ceremonies and ' 
At Talbols Inn in Pleasant Valley, N. Y., the President JOSEPH CLARK, '54, reported on the Mid-Hudson Valley Club held its annual Christmas program for the year and the arrangcmcnu for dinner meeting on December 17. Plans for the the Notre Dame Alumni Clubs of Connecticut for forthcoming theater party in New York City were a University of Notre Dame Night to be held discussed and color movies of the Club's summer at Wavcrly Inn, Chcsliire. 
picnic were shown. Attending a Club function for the first time were Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT W. Tlie following men were elected by mall ballot BURNS. Bob, *47, is employed by the Metropoli­as 1961-62 officers in March and took office on tan Life Insurance Company In Nc^vburgh, New April 13 — the occasion of our Universal Notre York. Dame Night: JOHN KERRIG.AN, *49, president; 
Tlie Treasure Chest in Poughkccpsie was the lo­
DR. ROBERT R. WARNER, JR., *53, \-ice- presi­cation of the February- meeting. REV- PETER J. 
dent; JOHN M. CLARK, '54, secretary-; and JOHN CODY spoke on "Federal Aid to Private Educa­
ZDANOWICZ, '36, treasurer. A Notre Dame Man tion." Father Cody pointed out both the pros and 
of the Year was named, to be announced next the cons of this timely subject. Following the talk, 
issue. an open discussion of this topic took place. Tlie Tlie undersigned left for Rome April 7 to study results of the recent .Alumni Presidents Council operations of the N.D. Club in the Eternal City, were covered also. having corresponded with executive secretary At the Marcli meeting In Nctvburgh, plans were VINCE McALOON before departure on pilgrimage, M made for Universal Notre Dame Night. In addi­—CHARLES J. DUCEY, Secy. tion REV. GEORGE CROFT, OMI, spoke on "St. Joseph, the Quiet Saint." Father Croft de­
New Jersey 
scribed St. Joseph as a man who was perfect In the small things and recommended that all men 
FRANCIS WALLACE, '23, celebrated sports follow his ways. Later in the evening Father Croft 
uritcr, novelist and biograplier of the late KNUTE and WILLL\M J. BLAKE put on a dazzling exhibi­
ROCKNE, *I4, was featured speaker, and REV. tion in shufUcboard only to be beaten In a close 
EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., represented the match 21-5, 
University at the New Jersey Club's Notre Dame Night on April 10. Details will follow, but tlie During Marcli BILL GIBSON*s father, Mr. Wil­au'ards included a special plaque presented to liam E. Gibson, Sr. passed away. Mr. Gibson, JOHN N. CACKLEY, JR., '37, new develop­ardent subway alumnus, was host to the Club meet­ment director at Fairleigh Dickinson U., Ruther­ings on many occasions at his Colonial Inn. 
ford, for 13 years past service in Notre Dame's —DONALD J. REYNOLDS, Pres. Alumni-Foundation Office. 
Milwaukee New Mexico 
Universal Notre Dame Night was obscr\*cd in On Fcbruar>- 1, a covered dish supper was held Milwaukee on Thursday, .April 13. REV. EDMUND in Albuquerque with over 60 members and wives |
P. JOYCE, executive vice-president of the Uni­enjoying the evening together. TIic event was * versity, w*as guest of honor at a dinner at the Ihc first of its kind for our club and was organized and conducted by the wives, who certainly dc­
^ serve bouquets for their idea and cfTorts. With such an entliusiastlc reception this Jnfonna] affair is bound to become an annual event. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated by the Notre Dame Club of New Mexico on Tuesday, March 21, at the Albuquerque Countr>* Club. ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE was principal speaker and did his usual fine job. Honored guest of the e%*ening was Mrs. Krause. Again this annual obser\-ancc proved to be quite a success with over 80% of the alumni living within a 60-miIe radius in attendance. 
—BILL HARVEY, Secy. 

New Orleans 
Universal Notre Dame night was celebrated in New Orleans April 4, 19G1, in the liLXurious Na­poleon Room of the Fontatnbleu Motel. 
^ Featured speaker for the occasion was Coach  JOE KUHARICH. 
Retiring President, JIM SMITH introduced his successor, JOHN PETITBON. Other olTiccrs serv­ing with John are TO.M McMAHOX, ED Mc­aVRTHY, JOE DAVID and JOE BE.VCH. 
It was only natural that Coach Kuharich would touch upon the football situation at Notre Danic. However, he also spoke at length on this year's theme for Notre Dame men, that of personal responsibility. His remarks were enthusiastically received by the more than 120 guests and cverj­onc besides paying homage to our great University, experienced a most sociable and cnjov-able evening. 
Present were some of Notre Dame's former football standouts talking over old times with Coacli Kuharich, Including Al Ecuyer, Andy Pilney, and Joe Heap. 
—JOHN PETITBON, Pres. 

New York 
Universal Notre Dame Niglit was celebrated April 8th with a dinner-dance at the Park I-ane Hotel. Chairman JOE TRACV cnh'stcd Chief Judge CHARLES S. DES.MOND of the New York Court of Appeals to deliver the main address. PROFES­SOR JOHN T. FREDERICK was present to repre­sent the University. Dx\N CUNNINGHAM was the recipient of the *'Man of the Year" award and JINl SHIELS was honored for his devotion and ser\'ice to the National Alumni Board. 
U.ND. Nitc also scr\ed as the forum for the introduction of the new olHcers elected for the year 1961. AL LESMEZ has been elected president. GLENN YATUNI sccretar>% and re-elected to the post of treasurer was JIM SPELLMAN. 
k Congratulations to BILL FALLON, former presi­dent of the Club, on his election to the National Alumni Board. 
The LONG ISLAND DIVISION under the ex­cellent leadership of TOM ^\'.•\LSH sponsored a symposium on March 8th at the Sky Island Club In Alineola. Tl\c subject was ".-\ Look at Our Public Schools." Panelists included DAN HANR/V­HAN '36, JOHN STACK '41, JOHN MARTIN '39, JOE a\LL.\HAN '38 and BILL MacDEVlTT '50. All of these gentlemen arc directly associated with our public schools in Nassau County. 
The annual Club retreat was a big success despite the terrible snow storm that descended on the Metropolitan area. Chairman GEORGE FRf\ZIER, '49 worked many hours in preparation for the journey to the Loyola Seminary in Shrub Oak. Tliose attending included CHRIS EARRETT, BOB BOYD, TOM BR^VDLEY, JOHN BURNS, 
I HENRY CLANCY, FRANK COXaVNNON, BER­
' NIE CONNOR, BILL CUDDY, DAN CUNNING­HAM, BOB FINK, GEORGE FR/\ZIER, GUS H.\RDART, TOM HARDART, JAMES P. KELLY, JOE LANE, DON McVLEENAN, BOB O'DONNELL, BOB PARNELL, AL PERRINE, BOB ROGERS, PHIL SHE.\, BILL TALBOT and JOE TRACY. Our sincerest appreciation to the Rev. VLNCENT HART, S.J., director of the re­treat house, and Rev. CHARLES G. McMxVNUS, S.J., who guided us through the program. 
From the editor's notebook (JIM 0'SHE.\ '52, Editor of the "News Letter"), TOM RYDER and BILL SHE^V preparing the final copy for the new dircctor>'. 
ANTHON-Y J. KENNEDY of Brooklyn reccntlv married, likewise JOHN K. REILLY, 
BERT KOEHLER, JR., '37 appointed a Ma­gistrate by Mayor Wagner. Congratulations "Your Honor." 
r BOB FITZPATRICK '49 named "Outstanding Young Man of Brooklyn for 1961." Bob is ad­ministrator of the St. Vincent's Home. 
CAS VANCE, TOM BRADLEY and JOHN BURNS seen recently with their heads together in a pow-wow at the NYC Division "MUG NITE." Net result: Tom and Cas have been elected to the 
N.Y. Board of Governors. Also saw JOE O'CON­NOR, '52, JIM TUXEDY, '52 and DON REILLY, '52 making plans for the lOih Reunion. 
Tlianks to the cfTorts of our retiring President, BILL CUDDY, '52, the Trust Fund has been given a shot in the arm. The University as well as the Club will share in the benefits of a new program presently being formulated. 
DAS BRICK is Chairman for the annual golf outing. Dan recently was elected President of the Lecwood Counlrv' Club. 
FRED C/VRIDEO, Chairman of the spring smoker, promises a gala evening at Travcrs Island 
on May IGth. 
—BOB FINK, Secy-

Northern California 
.At Universal N.D. night, the Northern Cali­fornia ND Club honored BUCK SHA\V, football coach of the Philadelphia Eagles — and before that coach of the Forty NIners, Air Force Acade^ my, U. of California and Santa Clara — at a dinner at the Algiers Restaurant, Redwood City, .•\mong the principals were former club prcxy BILL SCHINE, L.\WRENCE T. "BUCK" SHAW, DR. WALTER LaBERGE, missile scientist with Phiico (he's man of the year). Director of Athletics ED KRiVUSE (principal speaker), and new club president BILL McGOWAN. 

Shau-'s plaque bears an inscription reading: "You traveled your road of honor to the Golden Gate in the light of the Golden Dome. 
"Your code of personal responsibility marked all who traveled with you. 
"Your fellow alumni from Our Lady's School salute you with that title to which we all aspire — Buck Shaw, Notre Dame Man." 
Northwestern Ohio 
At the December meeting of our club, PAUL DOR:\N was elected president and myself, LEO HA^\*K, secretary for the coming two years. Uni­versal Notre Dame night was held on April 18, at the Milano Club In Lima and we had as our guest speaker, Mr. JOHN J. BRODERICK, JR., assistant dean of the College of Law. There was in attendance, seventeen Notre Dame men and their wives. 
Plans were made for our annual golf outing which this year will be held at the Lost Creek Country Club in Lima. A definite date has not been set, but it will be in the early part of June. While the gents play golf, the ladies will be play­ing cards. A dinner will follow in the club house after the days activities. 
—LEO J. HAWK, Seo-. 

CANTON—Gala U.N.D. Night in Canton, Ohio, (top) was preceded by social hour conversation involving (l.-r.) Club Presi­dent Ed Machuga; Assistant Foundation Director John MacCaulcy, principal speak­er; Area Campaign Chairman Maurice (Bud) Zink, and Club Chaplain Rev. Robert C. Fannon. 
Oklahoma City 
The Notre Dame Club of Olclahoma City, held their annual Universal Notre Dame Night on April 8, I96I, at 7:30 P.M. in the Petroleum Club Building. 
The guest speaker was Mr. James Armstrong who is Executive Secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Assodation. FATHER DONOVAN of St. Joseph Seminary here in Oklahoma City W3S the Master of Ceremonies. 
During the dinner the Man of the Year scroll was presented to Mr. PAUL LOOSEN. He is the banker in Okarche, Oklahoma and a graduate of the University. He was instrumental in getting a Catholic Hospital and school built in Okarche. His son, who recently graduated from the Univer­sity and is now with his father in the banking business, accepted the scroll, since Mr. Loosen u*as touring abroad. 
/\Iso at the dinner the Boy of the Year plaque was presented to Michael AfcDonald, a boy who is in his junior year of high school at McGuIness High in Oklahoma City. This was originated and is unique with the Oklahoma City club. The a^vard u-as started In 1955 and wc honored our 6th boy this year. 
—JOHN A. HOBBS, VIce-Prcs. 

Oregon 
Universal Notre Dame Night for the Notre Dame Club of Oregon took place in the Mayfair Room of the Benson Hotel, Portland, Ore., on Friday, May 7. 
Dinner followed a cocktail hour, with grace given by REV. HOWARD J. KENNA, C.S.C., president of the University of Portland. President CH.-\RLES J. SLATT welcomed the guests, in­cluding FATHER KENNA and his vice-president at Portland, FATHER JA.%fES E. NORTO.V, C.S.C.; Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD KRAUSE and ALL.\N J. POWERS from Notre Dame; and Mr. and Mrs. AL NEGRATTI, director of athletics at Portland. ED KRAUSE, Notre Dame's athletic di­rector, was featured speaker on a program con­ducted by J. EDWARD HUGHES, chairman, whose committee consisted of VICTOR NE.AL, PHIL MEANEY, RUSS NIEHAUS, TO.M HUGHES, PAUL NEWM.VN, NEIL RUNNING, PETE S.\NDROCK, JOHN SACOMANO and MORRIS CONWAY, JR. 
Peoria 
A cold, rainy, and Avindy ^Vednesday, April 12 in Peoria was brightened considerably by the presence of Mr. ED W. (MOOSE) KRAUSE, *34, Director of Athletics at the University of Notre Dame, as principle speaker at the Universal Notre Dame Night Banquet. A large gathering of NJ). men, their wives, and friends greeted Krause at Mt. Hawley Country Club for the annual event chairmaned by Club President JOHN MANION, '56. 
.•Uthough Moose's talk was the main course for the celebration, there were plenty of trimmings at the gaily decorated occasion. JOHN P. NOPPEN­BERGER, '25, former Peoria Spalding Institute and Peoria Hlijh School coach presented the ENNIO ARBOIT Memorial Trophy to Manual Training High School as 1960 Mid-State Eight Gridiron Champions. This trophy, presented for the third consecutive ttmc to 'Stanual since its inception at the 1957 U.N.D. Night, Is a perma­nent travelling trophy in memoriam to the great St. Bedc and Spalding Institute coach who died in 1954 at the age of 39. Arboit starred at Notre Dame in the late 30's, receiving his degree in 1938. 
Tlic 1960 Notre Dame Man-of-the-Year recipient, RALPH E. "DUTCH" JOHNSTON, presented the 1961 au-ard to J. JOSEPH LANGTON. '28. Joe, in receiving the .Award, said that there were two primary things a man can be the proudest of: I.) to be honored by his University-, and 2.) to have his son enter his alma mater; young Mike Langton was accepted at the University only the week before the U.ND. Night affair, so Joe Langton was Indeed — and justiBably — a proud man. 
Guests of Honor helping the Notre Dame Club celebrate the Universal Notre Dame Nigfat were .^.G. Adamson, Peoria County Supt. of Schools; Mark W. Bills, City of Peoria Supt. of Schoob; Rev. John J. Sweeney, Diocesan Supt. of Schools; Charles L. Dancey, Editor of the Peoria Jounial Star; A. G. Haussler, Acting President of Bradley Ualvcrsity; John I. "Dutch" Afeinen, Director ol Athletics at Bradley University; .and Michael J. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1962 21 
MANILA—An impromptu Notre Dame Night in the PhtUppines featured Rev. Patrick Peyton, CS.C, of the Rosary Crusade and Family Theater, in the Islands to express gratitude for Club gift of furniture. Present (seated, L to r.) were F. Gonzalez, J. F. Gotuaco (retiring president), Fr. Peyton, C Sanchez, Jr. (president), Fr. Queene; (standing, L to r.) E. Gan, A. Roces, A. F. Guaco, R. Yao, J. Zabarte, 
J. M. Hernandez, D. Sumubat, E. Roxas, E. Brias, Dr. A. Nubia, L. J. Gotuaco, M. V. Roces, E. Velasco, and D. Dy. 
Howlett, Auditor of Public Accounts for the State of Illinois. 
Master of Ceremonies for the evening was BER* NARD J. GHICLIERI, '44, who did a masterful job entertaining and introducing ever>-one. Bcmie is also Foundation Co-CIiairman with \VILLL-\M WOMBACHER, '50, for the Peoria area. 

• Co-Cha'rmen for the xcr>- successful celebration were JOHX R. PO>\'ERS, '53, Arrangements; RALPH E. JOHNSTON^ '30, and H. A. PETE VONACHEN, JR., '47, A\%^rds; LOUIS F. CRYSTAL, '36, Finance; JAMES KELLY, '45, Publicity; THONL^S P. LISTON. '40, Public Re­lations; JOPIN" J. JACOBS, '49, Tickets. Special mention should be given TIM GORMAN and DICK BENKENDORF, both '60, for their aid with the PubUdly while Co-Chairman Jim Kelly was the proudest father in Hammond, Indiana at the National Biddy Basketball finals; although the Peoria aggregation finished fourth in the national competition, young Mike Kelly was named to the first team All-Star five. 
The Blessing and Tbanksgixing at the Banquet was given by REV. DENIS MACKESSY, '50, Chaplain of tlie Notre Dame Club of Peoria. 
A pair of Peoria alumni became fatliers, for which congratulations arc in order: a son was born to Mr. & Mrs. STEPHEN A. PO^^*ER, '58, at St. Francis Hospital on March 29; and a daughter born to Mr. &. Mrs. ARTHUR P. 0\\XNS, '50, at St. Francis Hospital on April 8. And by the way, the Owcnses can now be found at home at 724 ^Vcst Eleanor PJacc in Peoria^ and the Power residence for the past six months has been 2532 West Scenic Drive in Peoria. 
And by the time this gets to print, tlie ifamons will be found at 2517 West Marian Court In Peoria. 
DENIS BERRV, '56, has been helping the Club promote local alumni attendance at the 1961 Class Reunions in June. 
Members of the N.D. Club were saddened to hear that W. J. (BILL) MOTSETT, '34, is leaving for the warmer and healthier climes of Florida this summer. Bill has unceasingly and unselfishly served the local Club and the University in many capacities since his graduation. Bill is a past recipient of the Man-of-the-Ycar Award and was President of the organization In 1939; he emcced the highly suc­cessful Universal Notre Dame Night Banquet in April, 1960. He will indeed be missed by his many Peoriarca friends. 
—JOHN F. XLANION, Reu'ring Pres. 
Philadelphia 

BISHOP FRANCIS J. McSORLEY was the principal guest at the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner-<iance in the Mirage Room of the Hotel Barclay, April 15. JOSEPH NOVETSKY received the Notre Dame Man of the Year award at the dinner from President BART JOHNSON. QUENT­IN C. STURM was chairman of the afTair, which included cocktails, flinncr and dancing to the Eddie Bigham orchestra. 
The second annual cocktail party for the bene­

fit of the Library* Fund was scheduled at the 
BART JOHNSON home for ilay 28, and many 
22 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 
Philadelphia Clubbers joined BUD DUDLEY at 
the first annual Hall of Fame dinner. Future plans 
include a late summer back-to-school party and a 
fabulous trip to two N.D. gamo in October In­
cluding a week in Miami. 
Back In March the Club made the traditional 

presentation of rose vestments for Laetarc Sunday, 
the vestments being presented by JOHN G.AGLL\R­
DINI, JR., to St. Peter Claver Churcli. 
President Johnson took cliargc of a summer 

job program for dcser\^ng N.D. students. 
Pittsburgh 
At the University Club on May 13, first bridge luncltcon for the Notre Dame Scholarship Fund. From all indications it was a fine afternoon A delicious menu was planned. As an added attrac­tion. Colonial Arts' foremost interior decorator spoke on the latest trends in decorating. 
Fran Christen, Mary Ann Bcbenck, and their committee gathered mnny prizes and surprises. The Club donated 2 tickets for the Pitt-Notrc Dame game for bridge prizes. Nanc>* Hudak and Nancy Flaherty handled rcscr\-ations. 
Saturday evening April 8, our Pittsburgh Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Nile. 
Arrangements were made ^^^^t}l the Uni\"ersiiy Club for cocktails at 6:00 and dinner at 7:00 p.m. JIM BEYMER ^^•as in charge of tlie program and toastmaster. 
This year wc ^vcrc especially fortunate to have as our Notre Dame representative and speaker for the occasion none otlier tlian REV. EDMUND 
P. JOYCE, executive vice-president of the Uni­versity, and chairman of tlie board of athletics. Father Joyce ^^-as a d\-namic speaker with a Notre Dame message that gave cver>'one a "ps>*chologicaI lift." 
—PETER F. FL.\HERTY, Pres. 

Rhode Island and 
Southeastern Massachusetts 
The Notre Dame Club of Rhode Island and Southeastern Massadiusctts held their annual elec­tions on the evening of March 7tli, 1961. Tlie following slate was elected to guide the club activities for the coming year: president PHILIP 
B. TOOLE, '52, ot Altlcboro, Mass.; vice-president, ROBERT L. BRENNAN, *59, of East Providence; 5ccrctar>-, EDWARD P. DENNING, '50, also of East Providence; and RICHARD DEL MONTX, '54, of Cranston, as treasurer. 
Heartiest congratulations and a standing ovation were given to retiring president JAMES M. Mc-MULLEN, '36, of ^Var^vick vvho served through 1959, was relcctcd last year, and \*-as the driving force In all club activities. Jim McMulIen, a former "Afan of the Year," Is an editor of the Providence Journal Bulletin. 
Our new president PHILIP TOOLE is vice-president of tlic FIiz Gcrald-Toolc Advertising Agency of Providence. 
On Universal Notre Dame Night FATHER THOMAS 0*DON*NELL» CS.C , was the guest speaker, and the secretary was a vcr>* surprised 
"N.D. Man of the Year." 
The committee for the Universal Notre Dame 

Night Dinner Dance consisted of ALBERT 
GRZEBIEN, toastmaster, and ANDREW Mc-
MAHON, arrangements; assisted by ROBERT 
BRENNAN and PHILIP TOOLE. 
A ver>' distinct honor was bestowed on one of 

our most distinguished members on Sundav, ^farch 
12th when JOHN J. McL-AUGHLIN received the 
first "Leading Citizenship Award" for Rhode 
Island, which is sponsored by the New March 
of Dimes. Wc members of the Rhode Island Notre 
Dame family are very proud of John. 
—EDWARD P. DEN*NING, Sec>-. 

Rochester 
On April 6 Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated at the Trcadway Inn, Rochester, N.Y., with cocktails, dinner and a program featuring REV. THOM.AS J. O'DONNELL, CS.C, from the University, and films of a National Champion 
N.D. football season and the 1960 World Scries. BILL DE.MPSEY, JOHN C\SEY and DON BOOTH handled reservations. 
Rock River Valley 
JOE BirrORF's efforts relative to bringing JOE KUHARICH to Steriing, Illinois, March 23 as guest speaker proved to be a huge success. 
Joe talked to a crowd of about two hundred men telling us of things about Notre Dame other than athletics and football. He spoke about the new contemplated librar>', importance of scholastic standing, why it is sometimes difficult for us to have our son enrolled at Notre Dame, importance of active Notre Dame Clubs, etc. The final part of his talk consisted of athletics; for instance why it is impossible to accept all of the many athletic applications, scholastic standing of Notre Dame athletes, and that Notre Dame is not dc-cmphaz­ing athletics. 
Joe v\-as successful In clarifying many local er­roneous rumors about Notre Dame. One main i conclusion of Joe's talk is that he proves to be ' a most worthy ambassador representing our Uni­versity. 
—PAUL J. FRY 

Rome 
On the occasion of the elevation of CARDINAL RITTER of St. Louis, His Eminence was av\-arded "Eminent" Membership in the Club (see photo). The presentation was made by Mr. JOSEPH NfARTELL.\RO, faculty member of the Notre Dame economics department. Reminded that his new Titular Churcli Is across the street from "his new cJub," Cardinal Rltter assigned the club the mission of keeping an e>-e on his churcli. 
FATHER THOMAS McAVOY, CS.C, in Rome on a research project at the Propaganda Fide, lectured informally at the club on the current favorite: "Church And State in the Light of the \ Catholic Churcli's History in the U.S." The lecture v\-as repeated for clerical members and con­
frercs, and was featured under the inspiration of A "The Sublime Tradition" appearing in the ALUMNUS. 
Tlie Club is currently sponsoring the DR. THOMAS DOOLEY Memorial Lectures in Medical Ethics. The course is being given by FATHER FR.\NCIS X. MURPHY, C.SS.R., who has \-olun­
tcercd his time from a demanding schedule as professor at the Lateran University. The lectures, given at the Club, are in fa\*or of the hundred American medical students attending the Uni-i-ersity of Rome where the course is not available, the university being a state scliool. 

A Lecture Service has been in operation during the past year outside Rome. Our President, GEORGE GLEASON '36, residing In Naples, made known the needs of the NATO South Holy Name Society there. Among the speakers we have been able to send to Naples arc: GORDON Di-RENZO of the Notre Dame sociology department, ^ JOSEPH MARTELLARO of the economics depart­ment, and your Roman Secrctar>* here reporting. 
The Annual St. Patrick's Day Parly at the Scoglio Di Frisio went off again to the tune of former years with the addition of Open House at the Club before the dinner. 
A Basketball Trophy for second place was given by the club and presented by our Vice President, CHRIS COCHRANE '46, at the final game of the Mediterranean Area American High School Tournament. Wlio won it? The Notre Dame In­ternational School of Rome. By the \s-zy, they won first place in the American High School League of Italy. 
We feel especially honored in being able to lake part in the acquisition of the portrait of OVRDINAL 0*HARx\ which bung in his Titular Church, San Andrea c Gregorio, here in Rome. And 

^ one of our Roman "catacomb" alumni, ALFONSO 
9 TUF^VNO of T^VA, ilew it personally to the U.S. where it is destined to hang In Sacred Heart Churdi on the campus. 
Upon learning of the election of WILLIAM R. BURKE (N.D. Navy Program during war) as Na­tional Commander of the /Vmcrican Legion, ivc ar­ranged a papal blessing for him and his family. Commander Burke planned to \islt us in Rome during the last week in March. 
A Mass was offered in St. Peter's Basilica for DR. TO.\f DOOLEY upon ne«-s of his death. His certificate of Honorary' Membership ^\•as flown to him a few days before he passed away. His brother, Malcolm Doolcy, Executive Director of ifedico, has written asking the Rome Club to supply Reader's Digest with the stor>- of Tom's Rome \'isit last year. 
NEW MEMBERS: FATHER PEDRO LUMBRE­

^ RAS, O.P., famed theologian who boasts that he 
^ \^as on N.D. faculty In '22; FATHER DONALD 
PICKELL, O.P., brother of JOE, '54, and PAUL, '58; FATHER GERALD POTTER, '52. Then there is a bevy of American Sisters studying In Rome at Re^na Mundi ScIiool of Theology. A sur\-ey shou-s that the following "went to Notre Dame:" MOTHER MARY ESTHER, S.H.C.J.; SISTER MARY LOUISE ANN, S.N.D.; SISTER MARIA CORNELIA, S.C.M.M.; and SISTER IMMACU­LATA, C.S.J. 
N.D. EUROPEAN CONTACTS: HUGH T. MURPHY, '59, g>"psying far atid wide came into Rome bearing these contacts: DON SULLIVAN, '36, father of DON, JR., 'M, in Vienna; LT. STEVE PIETROWICZ. '59, in Darmstadt; LT. SKIP SULLIV.AX, '60, in Mainr; LT. ROGER PRICE, '36, and FATHER (LT.) MENNARD, C.S.C., in Kirchgocns; LT. TOM JABLONSKI, 
'59, in Orieans, France; JAMES EHRENREICH, 
• U.S. Army in Paris. There's also FATHER JOHN TAYLOR, O.M.L, '43, in Copenhagen. In Italy is ORL.\NDO M. MAIONE, '57, U.S. Army, Leghorn. Into Naples on a U.S.N, destroyer, JI^I SUTTER; *59, and aboard Carries Independence "the President of the Class of '59, JOHN HAY­WARD. 
VISITING FIREMEN: CHUCK and Mrs. FRIZ­ZELL, '50. of Kansas City; PAT O'MEARA, '49, of St. Louis; TOM and Mrs. KENEDY, '42 of Kenedy Publishers, N.Y.C.; JORIS W. BIEMANS, 
N.D. faculty, *58, of Basutoland; STEPHEN F. HOOKER, '65, Rome; DICK REAMER, '55, of Vienna; LT. LARRY PELTON, '58, off Sub USS Corporal; EARL ENGLERT, '44, of Louisi.-ille: DR. EDWARD S. McCABE, '3B, of Philadelphia recipient of a medical travel award. The mother of DAVID D. O'NEILL, JR., 'M; Former Mayor 
_ and Mrs. Van Antwerp of Detroit, friends of our W cx-Prcx>-, JERRY ASHLEY. '33. TELL A FRIEND: Experience has demonstrated 
— in talking to NDcrs who have stumbled upon 
the Notre Dame hospitality center in Rome — that for those who get the ALUMNUS, reading is selective; for many it is con6ned to their class notes, their club report and general coverage of the feature articles. (One loyal son said that he had spotted the "Rome" club caption but as­sumed that it was "Rome, N.Y."!) Our point is that should you read this paragraph licre — and have not read the "Club Calendar" or **Di­rectory" items — then our address is: Notre Dame Club, Largo Brancaccio 82, Rome, Italy, Tel: 730002. All N.D. men, their Families and their Friends are Welcome. 
—VINCE McALOON, Secy. 

St. Joseph Valley 
PAUL M. BUTLER, '27, former National Chair­man of the Democratic Party, was named "Man of the Year" by the N.D. Club of the St. Joseph Valley at the 38th annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner April 18 in the Morris Inn. 
A pledge of $21,000 during 1961-63 was pre­sented by the Club to REV. JOHN E. WALSH, C.S.C., '45, director of the Notre Dame Foundation. 
In introducing Butler's award, 1960-61 President JOSEPH E. HICKEY, '50, praised the "leadership and genius for organization that spelled victory in the recent election. And though we are not all of the same party, yet we are one with him in his ideals of Public service and patriotism — and wc rejoice in his success. Of even greater and lasting \-aluc was his honesty and courage, to face and to dissipate the factions in hb party when smaller men would have settled for expediency and victory' at any price. If much of Har\'ard is in the Wliilc House tonight, it is a proud and com­forting thing for us to recall that it took Notre Dame to put it there." 
JAMES E. AR.MSTRONG, '25, national secretary of the Alumni iXssociatlon and principal speaker, keynoted the 1961 theme in his call for an Increase of personal responsibility in alumni with regard to themselves, their school, community and country. 
BERNARD J. VOLL, '17, area cliairman of the Foundation, reported briefly on the significance of the University's three year, §18 million "Program for the Future." 
Joe Hickcy, loastmaster and retiring president, introduced the 1961-62 officers: M. ROBERT CA­HILL, '3i, president; GER/\LD HAMMES, '53. Wce-presidcnt; THOMxVS HANLON, '49, secretary; JOSEPH F. DILLON, '44, treasurer; REV. LOUIS 
J. THORNTON, C.S.C., '29, chaplain; and Jim Armstrong, honorary president. JOSEPH E. HANNAN, '39, was chairman of the event. 
President Cahlll's first responsibility was a fa­miliar chore, the traditional Spring Football Game on May 13, at which 20,000 spectators watched 
FLINT—Jack Pratt (right), head coach of St. Matthew High, was honored as N.D. Man of the Year at Flint Club's Universal Notre Dame Night. Club President Larry Saxe and Rev. James £. Aforan, C.S.C., director of admissions and scholarships and speaker from the campus, examine plaque citing non-alumnus Pratt's leadership. 
the Varsity of JOE KUHARICH, '38, romp over the Pro-laden Old Timers 50-7. 
St. Louis 
Oa the 19th of April the annual Universal Notre 

Dame Night ^vas held by the St. Louis Club 300 
Alumni and wives attended the affair held in the 
Victorian Room of Stan Musial's Restaurant. The 
Alumni was honored by having Father HES­
BURGH, president of the University, as the main 
speaker. 
The new ofEcers of the Club were installed at 
the dinner. Those elected to ofEce were: ROBERT 
CHICKEY, president; JIM PUDLOWSKI, secretary 
and treasurer; ROBERT McAULIFFE, vice-presi­
dent of Committees; HENRY DAHM, vice-presi­
dent of Activities; and JOHN PHELAN. vice-
president of Public Relations. ROBERT Mc> 
AULIFFE, JOHN PHELAN. DR. PHIL HIG­
GINS and FRANCIS McCARTHY were elected 
to four year terms to the Club's Board of Directors. 
Outgoing Club President, DON RATCHFORD, 
was honored vnth a plaque by the Club in appre­
ciation for the many yean and time he has put 
into the Club's activities as an officer for the 
past four years. 
The Club's Officers are presently making plans 
for the annual Sports Banquet and Golf Party 
to be held in June. The affair is attended by many 
of the Professional and Amateur Athletics from 
the local area and the coaches from the University. 
DANIEL REARDON, '52, was recaitly elected 
Circuit Attorney for the City of St. Lotus, an 
outstanding honor for Dan, especially since he is 
one of the youngest In United States. 
—BOB CHICKEY. Pres. 

Salina 
On April 26 the Notre Dame Club of Salina, Kansas, held a combined Christmas, Valentine, St. Patrick's and Easter Party in conjunction A\*ith Universal Notre Dame Night. Refreshments at the home of Secretary-Treasurer NORB SKELLEY were follo\%-ed by a bus ride to nearby Brook-ville for dinner at the BrookwIIe Hotel. President AL SCHWARTZ counted about 40 noses. 
The Club roster now includes JIM FOLEY, DR. FRED GANS, TOM KENNEDY, BOB Mc­AULIFFE, CLEO MELCHER, AL McLEAN, AL SCHWARTZ, NORB SKELLEY, and LARRY ^VENTZ; plus JOHN E. CARLIN, SR.. and JOHN 
E. a\RLlN, JR., Mentor; JOHN BRO>VNE, Clay Center; GEORGE COLE, Junction City; FRANK 
A. CARROLL and JOSEPH COLE, Manhattan; JAMES CONWAY, McPhcrson; DAVE BRO\VN II, Norton; ART SCHMIDT, Concordia; and TOM CARROLL, Hutchinson. 
San Antonio 
The Notre Dame Club of San Antonio held its annual Communion Sunday on February 19th. Some thirty (30) members and guests attended evening Mass at Blessed Sacrament Church and afterward gathered at DeWInne's Belgium Inn for a steak dinner. 
The San Antonio club held its Universal Notre Dame Night celebration during the Fiesta de San Jacinto and Notre Darners from nearby Texas cities joined u$ for the double festivities. April 18th ^v-as the date and the Na^-arro Room of the St. Anthony Hotel was the place. FATHER JOHN WALSH, CS.C , of Notre Dame was our special guest. Many of the guests closed the evening with a \-isit to "A Night In Old San Antonio" at La Villeta, since the ceremonies included the naming of Father Walsh as mayor of the quarter. Hon. AL HECK was M.C.; MARK E. WATSON. JR., presided; and FATHER PAUL )LABREY, O.M.I., Club chaplain, gave the invocation. 
—ED O. SARRATT, Secy.-Treas. 

San Fernando Valley 
Recent events promoted by the San Fernando Club have been so successful that the question of meeting monthly rather than on a bi-monthly basis is now up for consideration. The Commualon Breakfast held on December 4 tmder the chair­manship of GEORGE O'BRIEN, '50, was well-attended. This e\'ent took place at St. Francis Xavier Parish Hall in Burbank tmder the hospitality of REV. JOHN F. LYNCH, C^.C, a fnend from Notre Dame. 
The Chrbtmas Party, under co-chairmen JACK SHAFER, '51, and BOB HUNTER, '52, and held at the home of RICHARD DE SANTIS (former 
N.D. professor), was such a social success that 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 2961 23 
two summer parties arc being planned rather 
than the usual single one. 
Our first meeting of tlic new- year, on Januarj' 
26, featured a film on life at Xotre Dame. TIJC 
special cmphasts of tills meeting was to publicize 
the progress made in this area in raising funds 
for the Foundation. WALTER J. COVLNGTON, 
'39, explained how eacfi of us could lend our 
cfTorls to this worthy endeavor. 
The Married Couples Kcircat hdd on Fcbruar>' 
23 at Our Ladv of Perpetual Help in San Fer­
nando was planned by ROBERT HUNTER, '52. 
TTiosc who attended reported that it was a gratify­
ing experience, and the picture in this report gives 
some idea of the setting in which the Retreat was 
held. Shown are: (front row, I.-r.) ROBERT 
HUNTER, *52; Mrs. a\R L F. BACHLE; WAL­
TER J. COVLNGTON, '30; Rev. Miles Bcro, 
CP, retreat master; Mother Marv Josepli, mother 
superior; JOHN N. LEONARD, '34, Club presi­
dent; (second row, l.-r.) Dr. and Mrs. MAURICE 
J. REGAN, '31; Mrs. Hunter; a\R L BACHLE, JR., '52; EDWARD J. DOWLING, '38, Club vice-president; Mrs. CoWngton: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN T. MONTGOMERY; Mr, and Mrs. LEO 
R. SMITHSON, ^2; Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS DEHXY OTT, '22; Mrs. Leonard; and .Mr. and Mrs. GERALD TR.\FFia\NDA, '57. 
Members of the club had a \*ariety of acti\itlcs in the Spring. TIic Notre Dame baseball team was in this area early in .•\pril, a combined Notre Dame and Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus meeting was held on .-Xpril 6, tlic Notre Dame Glee Club was here on April 10, and we joined with the other three area clubs in putting on Universal Notre Dame Night at the Holl>^vood Riisevelt Hotel on April 12. 
—GEORGE SCHNEIDER, Sco'.-Treas. 
Schenectady 
A special meeting was held Januarj' 26, 1961, to review the past histori' ol the club and to de­termine whether the club should undertake a more active role in community affairs, in addition to the traditional social events such as U.N.D. Night, the annual Communion Breakfast, etc. Included among the ideas presented were a more active role in guidance for high scliool students, club a%*-ards for scliolastic excellence, an annual re­treat, a rcli^ous lecture series, etc The Chainnan was GEORGE YORK (\1cc-Pres.), while others present were BOB SCHAFER (Prcs.), DICK HUETHER (Scc'y.), JOHN D'ANIERI, LEON ST. PIERRE, etc. 
Another meeting was held Mardi 23, J961 to prepare for U.N.D. night on .-^pril 8, 1961 and to review the program of the Club since the January- meeting. A tape recording was played after the meeting dealing with communist methods employed on the captured troops in Korea. U.N.D. Night was held at the Hotel Van Curler on April 8, 1961, with dinner and cocktails. The guest speaker was FATHER TOM O'DONNELL, and the chairman was Bill Teoli. Toastmastering was DR. JOHN D. PHILLIPS. 
—BILL TEOLI, Scc>-. 
South Central Wisconsin 
The South Central Notre I>sme Club of ^Vis­
consin celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner metting at the Nob Hill Restaurant on Monday, April 10th. 
BILL FISCHER, '49, now witli tlic ChcxTolet Div. of General Motors at Baraboo, was the featured speaker. ED PICK scr\cd as master of ceremonies and WILLIAM GORGEN, outgoing president, presided over the business meeting. 
Officers elected at the meeting to begin a two year term were JOHN W. RO.^CH, '27, president; BERNARD S. MIXTACKI, '50, \-ice-prcsidcnt; THOMAS M. HINKES, *5I, sccrctarsv and MAURICE F. LEAHY, '39, treasurer. All arc from Madison. The next big event is the summer golf outing scheduled for August 6th at tlie Dodge-Point Country Club in DodgeWIIc. 
South Jersey 
On ^ri l 18 the Notre Dame Club of South Jersey held its Annual Universal ^otre Dame Night which was attended by twent>'-five members and their wives. FATHER THOMAS O'DONNELL was the principal speaker and did a very fine job. 
It has been a real privilege to serve the Notre Dame Club of South Jersey during the past two years, and although my term of office has now 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 2961 

RHODE ISLAND AND S. E. MASSACHUSETTS—At Rhode Island*s annual N.D. Night dinner-dance (from left) Club Treasurer AJ Grzebien and Campus guest Father Thomas O'Donnell congratulate Man of the Year Edward P. Denning and his wife Mary in this Providence Journal photo. 
expired, I plan to continue active in alumni af­fairs. Officers and Directors for 1961-62 arc: JAMES 
B. CARSON, '36; Vice-President, THOMAS MARTIN, *57; Sccreiar>-Treasurer, CHRISTO­PHER C. REIT2E, HI, '56; Directors, WILLIAM 
T. CARSON, JR., '54; ALBERT M. JANNETT, JR., '57, FRxVNCIS J. McVDAMS, '51; Founda­tion Chairman, FRANK E. VmORl , '49; Col­lege Night Chainnan, THO.MxVS J. AUCHTER, '50; and Interview Conimittcc, JOHN C. MUR­PHY, '49. 
—TOM AUCHTER 

Spokane 
>rembcrs of the Club, their xvivcs and friends, accepting the invitation of Spokane Chapter, Port­land University Alumni, attended their annual gathering on Januarj* Hlh. The affair was field in Cocur d'AIcnc, Idaho, and following the dinner all were present when the Pilots of Portland University defeated the Bull Dogs of Gonzaga University in an exciting game of basketball. The guest speakers at the dinner were REV. JAMES NORTON, C.S.C., *43, of Portland University and BOB MERZ, '47, President of the Notre Dame Club of Spokane. This was the second sucli get­ting together of the Alumni of these sister uni­versities and exemplified the unity of the spirit of Holy Cross. 
On February 7th the Club added to its annual events a Pot-Luck Supper. Tliis first time was a most enjoyable affair and was held in the Glacier Room of the Rainier Brewery, Spokane, and featured a tempting array of food provided by the ladies of the Club and tliat good Rainier brew dispensed by the Club's good friend, Jerry Pcttignnv (Gonzaga) ifanagcr of Rainier. T?ic evening's enjoyment was heightened by a show­ing of the sound film, "Rockne of Notre Dame," and by a report from Club President BOB MERZ on his attendance at the recent biennial meeting at Notre Dame of Club presidents. Tlie following members and their wives attended this event: ED BETHKE, '28; DR. BOB DEAK, '53; FRANK HAGENBARTH, '27; TOM LALLY, '06; BOB MERZ, '47; GARY MYERS, '59; JOHN P. O'NEILL, '29; DR. JIM ROTCHFORD, '48; BERNIE SMYTH, '55; RALPH SCHULLER, '57; JOE IVALSH, '14; Miss Eileen O'Brien of New York City, guest of Dr. Rotchford, and Brendan Gallagher, guest of Bernie Smyth. 
Members of the Notre Dame Club of Spokane with their wives and friends celebrated Universal 
N.D. Night on April 10th with a record breaking turn-out. Local alumnae of St. Mary's College and 
alunmi of Portland University joined in the en­
joyable observance of the occasion at the Daven­
port Hotel. The palatial Elizabethan Room was 
attractively decorated with tlie University colors 
and the tables were set to carr>* out the effect. 
TJic guest speaker was REV. JOHN J. E\'OY, 

S.J., professor of psychoIog>- at Gonzaga University. 
His talk on the theme of this year's event, "Per­
sonal Responsibility," was most interesting and 
ver>- pertinent. The excellently recorded message of 
FATHER HESBURGH was received with apprecia­
tive enthusiasm. GxVRY MYERS, '59, was in charge 
of arrangements, and BOB NIERZ, '47, retiring 
president, was an excellent master of ceremonies. 
The following newly elected officers were installed 
during the evening: President BERNARD J. 
SMYTH, '55; Vice-President GARY MYERS, '59; J 
and Sccretar>-Trca5urcr JOSEPH M. >V'ALSH, '14. 
Members of the Club attending the affair were: 

MONK ALBO, '35; ED BETHKE, '28: FR/\NK 
HAGENBARTH, '27; DR. CURR/\N HIGGINS, 
'49; ELMER JOHNSTON, '23; CLAIR KEARNS, 
'33; TO.V LALLY, '06; DR. BOB MAKER, '35; 
BOB MERZ, 47; GARY MYERS, '59; JOHN 
O'NEILL, '29; IL\Y PENL.\ND, '56; BOB 
ROTCHFORD, '49; DR. JIM ROTCHFORD, '48; 
RALPH SCHULLER, '57; BERNIE SMYTH, '55; 
and JOE WALSH, '14. 
—JOE WALSH, '14, Scc>-Treas. 

Terre Haute 
Father Robert Pchon, C.S.C, head of the Uni­versity's department of iheologj-, was the guest speaker for U.N.D. Night in Terre Haute on Thursday evening, April 13, 1961. *-, 
Sixty-two club members, their wives and/or * guests plus friends of Notre Dame shared in a most enjo>'able time, including a cocktail party and a dJnner-dajice. Those in attendance were deeply moved by the eloquently delivered message from the University. 
Preceding Father Pellon's address, outgoing presi­dent PAUL MARIETTA, '44, announced that PETER X'ARDA, '30, was i/ic recipient of the Notre Dame Man of the Year award. Pete's dad accepted it for his son who was unable to attend due to family illness. 
RICHARD KELLY, '43, in charge of special gifts for the Foundation in this area, reported that we arc already oversubscribed by $1,000 u-ithout 
even scratching the surface. 
Following this, incoming president CHARLES METZGER, '48, took over the reins of the club. Other 1961-62 officers include: James SuUix-an, ^ '55, wce-prcsident; FRED CHRISTMAN, '43, € ' secretary; RICHARD KELLV, '43, treasurer; FATHER ANTHONT >VEBER, C.S.C., diaplain. 
^ Incidentally, the treasured Bengal leopard skin 
W donated by Father Weber was rafilcd off and won by the FRED CHRISTMAN family. A 20-ycar Veteran of the mission field, Father Weber is stationed at the Gibault Scltool. He was ac­companied at the affair by BROTHER BERNAR­DINE, a fellow classmate of Father Pclton. 
Father Pclton said his Mass the following morning For the living and deceased members of the Notre Dame Club of Terrc Hauic. 
Tlie Universal Xotrc Dame Night dinner was followed by a dance in the Wabash Room of the Terre Haute House. 
New board members arc PAUL MARIETTA, '44; DRUIE GWENDER, '46, and DICK KELLY, '43. 
The second annual smoker sponsored by the Tcrrc Haute Alumni was held April 21, 1961 at the K. of C. ED "MOOSE" KR^VUSE and KNUTE ROCKNE, JR., were invited to help 

% make It a success. BERNIE BURDICK was chalr­man of this event. 
More news on these events and programs for the new year will be forthcoming bv new club secretary-, FRED CHRISTMAN. 
—JOHN BOYER, '49, Rettrins Secx-. 
Toledo 

Recently the Notre Dame Club of Toledo elected the following officers: CHARLES -NL SCHIR.\, president; RICHARD ^L COL.\SURD, vice-president; AfATTHEU' J. KEHOE, treasurer; JOSEPH KALBAS, secrctarv. JOSEPH HILLE­BRAND and RICHARD "RED'* SMITH were recently elected to the local Board of Directors. 
Plans developed for our annual communion break­fast to be held in late spring. Interest In current student admission policies at 
• the Univcrsitv is running high since the recent \-isIt of FATHER JAMES E. MOR.\N, Director of Admissions. Father Moran toured several of the high schools in the area indicating the type of student and the enrollment our University is looking for. 
FR.\NCIS "BUD" MALONE is permanent chair­man of the Activity Committee to interest future students in obtaining the Notre Dame stor\'. Others on this committee who attended a luncheon with Father Moran at The Toledo Club arc RICHARD 
M. COL.\SURD, JOSEPH R. HILLEBRAND, JOSEPH KALBAS, MATTHEW J. KEHOE, RICHARD M. KOPF, GEORGE M. KOR­HUMEL, JAMES J. MALONE, JA.MES J. MUR­TAGH, WILLIAM O. MURTAGH, WILLIS H. WALKER, JOHN P. HURLEY, and CHARLES 
M. SCHIRv\. 
P Club members held the most recent business meeting In the rathskeller of the Buckeye Brewing Company, enjoying the hospitality of RICHxVRD **RED" SMITH, fellow alumnus, and now chair­man of the board at Buckeye. 
—H. J. KALB.AS, Seo". 

Tulsa 
Tulsa vvas happy to have Mr. and Mrs. JIM ARMSTRONG and the Most Reverend Victor J. Reed, D.D., together with local friends of the University and wives as its guests for Universal Notre Dame Night on April 6. Tlie solid support from South Bend and the efforts of Chairman JOHN JOYCE were responsible for its success. At the cocktail part>* the following evening, Jim discussed the Sotrc Dame Foundation's progress. 
^ BILL SHERRY and PETE McMAHON arc the State Governor and local chairman for the program upon which so much of the University's future depends. 
The Club has been looking into a mirror re­cently, with the aid of a questionnaire, the prod­ding of President JACK MOHATT, and the hon­est desire to c\'aluatc its objectives, the group has tried to outline activities for 19GI. 
Strong endorsement was given the scholarship program on Februar>- 2, when $1,800.00 was pledged by 40 sober men at the Annual Stag, FARRIS SAFFA and LARRY SCHMIDT were chairmen of the party. Volunteer subscription was needed this year in the absence of the al^^'ays profitable football train but the Club is looking forv%*ard to the Notre Dame-Oklahoma game re­newal. SPIKE SULLIVAN reports that 15 local boys have attended the University in the last 
I eleven years as a direct result of this assistance  program. liie Annual Christmas Dance was well managed by JOHN MADDEN and BOB LAIRD. Tlie old 
Dads still give the students a run for their money when the band is right. 
Virginia 
We celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night once 

more April 11 and elected new club officers for 
the coming year. These are; E. AHLTON FAR­
LEY, president; FRANK J. STUMPF, Mce-presl­
dcnt; ROBERT E. McSU'EENEY, secrctan--; and 
ROBERT A. SHEPPARD, treasurer. 
In addition, our guest speaker, Mr. JOSEPH J. 

MULDOWNEY, partner, Scott and Stringfellow, 
brokers and investment bankers here, addressed 
us on "Personal Responsibility'* — in particular 
relation to business. Thb proved to be such an 
informative and generally excellent presentation. 
—CHARLES R. RILEY, M.D., Retiring Prcs. 

Washington, D. C. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated In Washington on x\pril 10 at the Shcraton-Carllon Hotel. FRxVNK M. FOLSOM, chairman of the board of R.G.A. and fellow Vatican delegate witfi FATHER HESBURGH to the Inlcmaiional Atomic Energy Agency, who spoke on the announced theme of "Personal Responsibility.*' REV. ROBERT PELTON, C.S.C., head of Notre Dame's theology department, was the University representative. ARTHUR "DUTCH" BERG.MxVN, toastmaster of the dinner, assisted dinner chairman JOSEPH BORDA in Inducting the 1961-62 officers: ROBERT 
N. HUTCHINSON, president; JOHN WOOD, vice-president; JA.MES P. SCHR^VDER, secretarv; JOSEPH MALONEY, treasurer; and J. CLIF­FORD LETCHER and PHILIP MALONEY, gov­ernors. 
Past events have included the Annual Family Communion Breakfast on Palm Sunday, March 26, at Holy Cross Foreign Mission Seminar>', with BILL MIDDENDORF as chairman; the St. Patrick's Day Party In Bcihesda. Md., with Irish music, games, refreshment and merriment under DICK SCHOENFELDER and ED FENLON, pro­ceeds to go to JOHN DANIELS' projected or­phans* party; and a brilliant talk at the Febru­ary meeting by World Bank Treasurer ROBERT 
W. C(\Vi\NAUGH on the Influence of x\merican investment abroad on our balance of payments, which Bob documented as beneficial. 
Western Washington 
The Notre Dame Club of Western Washington celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night on April 6, I96I, at the Benjamin Franklin Hotel, Seattle, Wash. Program Chairman DON SULLIVAN re­
TULSA—Bill Sherry, (right), Oklahoma's governor for the N.D. Foundation and Tulsa's Man of the Year, is congratulated by guest speaker Jim Armstrong at April U.N.D. Night ceremonies. 
ported that 100 Alumni, wives and friends at­tended the annual affair. CtMiimittee members as­sisting Don included FRED HOOVER, MORIUE STARRETT. TOM MAY, STEVE ROBEL, TED CUMMINGS, PHIL HOSTERMAN, CHARLES OSBORNE, EARL 0*DONNELL, BOB MOR­TENSEN. BURT HALL, DON ZECH. PAT GOGGIN, AL TOTH. and HUGH CKEEFE. ED "MOOSE** KRAUSE, accompanied by hb wife, was the guest of honor and president^ In ad­dition to his message from the University, current information about the Faculty and activities at Notre Dame. "Moose** answered questions from the audience, and his usual clever "off-the-cuff" remarks were especially stimulating. EMMETT LENIHAN presided over the evening*5 affairs and the Club's Chaplain, REV. P. H. DUFFY, *31, was called upon for his scintilating "Irish** remarks. Ed O'Brien, Athletic Director of Seattle University and his wic, ^vclcomed ED KRAUSE to the Pacific Northwest, and hinted about a futturc Notre Dame-Scattle University basketball game. ALLAN J. FO^VERS, Foundation assistant director, was in attendance and presented the group with an up-to-date report on the new Library drive and related Foundation activities. The '"Man of the Year" Award was presented by TED CU.MMINGS to BEN LENOUE, a past president of the Club and at the present time, the Foundation chairman of the Seattle Area for the Library Fund-Raising Drive. 
The Club's Prcsldeni, JOE LOTTA, presented a 
short talk on "Personal Responsibility,** this year's 
theme for Universal Notre Dame Night. The Most 
Reverend Tliomas E. Gill, Auxiliary Bishop, Diocese 
of Seattle, closed the evening with a few words on 
Notre Dame and a prayer of thanksgiving. 
The Notre Dame Club of Western Washington 
now has over 150 members, a new high, and 
with the number of students presently attending 
the University from this area, will increase the 
membership ver\' rapidly. 
Since the last printing of the Alumnus, the 
Club held Its annual Communion Breakfast. FRED 
HOOVER chaired the event and ERNEST C. 
TIMPANY, Supt., Washington State Reformltory, 
was the main speaker. 
—TOM >L\Y, *55, Secy. 

Youngstown 
Way last September I was elected the secretary-
treasurer of the Youngstown Chapter. THOMAS 
KERRIGAN succeeded himself as president, and 
CHxVRLES McCRUDDEN was elected vice-presi­
dent. 
W'c have had some degree of difHculty getting 
things straight and motive but now I think we 
can supply you with an up-to-date account of our 
actiwiles. 
Tlie most recent gathering of the club ^%*a$ of 
course U.N.D. Night, held on April 6. Wc had 
as our eitcemed guest, Mr. JOHN S. McCAULEY, 
the area Foundation representative. It was also our 
honor to have present the newest member of the 
Alumni Board, Mr. OLIVER HUNTER, who is 
also a member of our chapter. 
THOMAS KERRIGAN announced the date of 
our Golf Outlag which will be June 21. He in­
troduced the Club officers, Mr. Hunter and then 
Mr. MacCauIey. 
We heard a taped speech by Father Hesburgh describing some of the conditions of the Ford Foundation grant. Mr. MacCauIey then began an Inspiring talk on "Personal Responsibility.** At the outset he dtcd .Mr. CHARLES CUSHWA as an alumnus of outstanding personal responsibility. In my opinion this accolade could not have been pronounced on a more deser\-ing person. Mr. Cushwa has been an outstanding example to all alumni in the area and has, over the years, done more than any other single person to promote the University and its ideals. 
During the course of his talk, Mr. MocCatdcy touched on each person's responsibility to himself, his family, his parish, his company, his community, and his University. He stressed that we must take advantage of the challenge offered by Ford, sharing our responsibility in spite of any personal enmity we may have toward any small faction. Our responsibility carries us be^'ond any personal feel­ing we may have so that our responsibility mil be in proportion to that intimate bond which each and every one of us has for "Our Lady.** 
The dinner was well attended and the success was ably engineered by the program chairman, BILL LYDEN. 
—PHILLIP VAN HUFFEL, '54, Sccy.-Treas. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, June, I96I 25 
University of Notre Dame Law School Advisory Council. He also was cliairman of the St. Joseph Coimty Democratic Central Committee from 1910 to 1942 and was appointed county attorney in 1942 and served in that post for two years. Mr. Huguenard is survived by his wife. Ruby, a son, 
ALUMNI ClAsSES Mi 
daughter, sue grandchildren, sister, and two brothers. 
Engagements 
Miss Camilla Clare Bradford and WILLIAM V. RYAX, '52. Miss C>iithia S. Trenbath and JOHX E. PORTA, '53. Miss Doris Marj- Moore and DANIEL C. KISZ­KA, '55. Miss Catherine Jassoy and EDWARD N. DENX, •56. Miss Marilvn .Ann Murphy and THOM.AS J. JEFFERS, '56. Miss Barbara .^nn Sims and JOSEPH W. AN­DREWS, '57. Miss Eileen J. Raid! and EDWARD JOH.V GORDON, '57. Miss Kathleen R. Jahnz and GERALD F. S.V LETTA, '58. ifiss Carol Sue Aiaslo and H'ALTER R. BER­NARD, JR., '59. Miss Joyce Ann Papp and GEORGE J. CLEM­E.NTS, '59. Miss Jane McGeeney and CORNELIUS P. HAUGH, '59. Miss Anne Marie Kantowicz and J.-\MES TERRY PLUNKETT, '59. Miss Ellen Dankert and KEN.\ETH BOURGON, '60. Miss Dorothy Rose and G.\LEX P. CAWLEY, 
'60. Miss Lee Knuck and DONALD J. HEWTTT, '60. Miss Mar>- Cecile Roemer and LT. PAUL B. 
KUSB.\CH, '60. Miss Nanci- M. Giincs and WALTER J. RUDGE, '60. Miss CaroI>-n Mae Krol and THONL4S J. RUETZ, '60. Miss Patricia A. Hawkins and ROBERT P. WILLIAMS, '60. Miss Patricia .K. Schmelzer and DANIEL J. SCHUSTER, '61. 
Marriages 
Miss Maureen Sheila Smith and WILLIAM J. GALLAGHER, JR., Dallas, Texas, April 29, 1961. 
Miss Frances il . Canisdlo and DR. GEORGE MATSO.V HALEY, '52, Hillcrcst Heights, Maryland, February 4, 1961. 
iliss Sandra Clifford and P.AUL FULLMER, '55, Chicago, Illinois, April 22, 1961. Miss Beatrice Stein and JEROME P. ISAACS, '56, New York, New York, April 4, 1961. 
Miss Anne Luisa Zanctti and JOSEPH L. SPIE­GEL, '56, Pelham Manor, Ne*v* York, February II, 1961. 
Miss Nancy Quickc and ARTHUR JOHNSON, '57, Ev-aiuton, Illinois, January 7, 1961. 
Miss Marcia J. Wozniak and JOHN A. MC­LAUGHLIN, '38, South Bend, Indiana, January 21, 1961. 
Miss Patricia Anne Hosier and DONALD P. BALLENTINE, '59, South Bend, Indiana, Fcbruan' 11, 1961. 
ifiss Anne Theresa Morris and LT. ROBERT J. DUNHAM, '59, New York, N.Y., December 31, 1960. 
Miss Mary Katheiinc O'Neill and CHRISTO­PHER B. FAGAN, '59, Washington, D.C., Februarj­11, 1961. 
Miss Jane Ann Hickman and P.-itJL W. OBER­HAUSER, '59, Notre Dame, Indiana, February 4, 1%1. 
Miss Mary Ann Shiprek and DUANE O. HAAG, '&i^ Notre Dame, Indiana, February- II, 1951. 
Miss Elaine M. Dhoore and LAWRENCE C. LOJE, '60, Notre Dame, Indiana, January 28, 1961. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. GORIUN, JR., '38, a daughter, Patricia Ellen, March 23, 1961. >£r. and Mrs. William D. Sutherland, '49, a daughter, Catherine Hayes, March 12, 1961. 

26 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 
.\Ir. and Mrs. MARK H. BERENS, '50, a son, 

John, February 23, 1961. 
Mr. and Mrs. DUDLEY D. BIRDER, '50, a 

daughter, March 16, 1961. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH HICKEY, '50, a son, 

February 3, 1961. 
Mr. and M13. JOHN H. O'REILLY, '50, a son, 

Edu-ard John, January 31, 1961. 
Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR P. OWENS, '50, a 

daughter, April 8, 1961. 
Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE PASZKIET, '50, a son, 

January 29, 1961. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD D. DeBOER, '53, a 

daughter, Cherjl ••^nn, March 18, 1961. 
Mr. and Mrs. ALFRED C. DeCRANE, JR., '53, 

a daughter, Stephanie Ann, November 6, 1960. 
ifr. and Mrs. WILLIA.M J. DUNH.A.M, '53, a 

daughter, Lorcn Mar>', November 8, 1960. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. FINK, '53, a son, 

Stephen LawTcnce, Fcbruarv 14, 1961. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN R. POWERS, JR., '53, a 

son, John R., Ill, Fcbruari- 21, I96I. 
Mr. and Mrs. GERARD A. VOIT, '53, a son, 

Gerard Mark, March 17, 1961. 
Dr. and Mrs. ANTHONY R. GARRUTO, '54, a 

daughter, Regina, January 25, 1961. 
Mr. and Mrs. ANTHONY J. TRIGLANI, '54, 

a daughter, Antonia Giovanna, January* 23, 1961. 
Mr. and Mrs. NORRIS BISHTON, '57, a son, 

Norris James, III, Janttar^* 3, 1961. -Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE W. STRAKE, JR., '57, a son, Stephen Dc^^-alch, December 26, I960. Mr. and Mrs. DONALD J. BAIER, '58, a son, Donald, Jr., June 13, I960. Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN A. POWERS, '58, a son, Jfarch 29, 1961. 
Deaths 

JOSEPH M. JENKINS, '02, of St. Charles, Missouri, died November 29, 1960, according to information just received in the Alimini Office from his widow. 
THO^US J. JONES, 'M, died March 30, 1961, in Indianapolis, Indiana, according to in/onnation received from his son, Rev. Thomas P. Jones, C.S.C., '31. Also surviving are Mrs. Jones, three daughters, five granddiildren and four great-grand­children. 
REV. EUGENE P. BURKE, C.S.C., '06, retired professor of religion and English at the University, died April 12, 1961. Fatlier Burke was president of the University of Portland, then known as Co­lumbia University, from 1919 to 1925 and was a former editor of the Ave Maria magazine. In August, 1959, Father Burke was awarded an honor­ary doctor of laws degree by Noire Dame at the summer school commencement. His sirrvivors in­clude a brother at ^alre Dame, Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C., and a sbter. 
William J. MOOXEY, '15, of Indianapolis, Indiana, died March 21, 1961, according to word from his son, William J., Jr., '57. Mr. Mooncy had once served on the Alumni Board of Di­rectors. Also surviving are his wife, another son and two married daughters. 
JOSEPH E. DORAIS, '17, died in Miami, Florida, according to inlormation received in the Alumni Ofiice. He is survived by his wife. 
ROBERT O'&ALLAGH-AN, '18, of Ironwood, Michigan, died in Tucson, Arizona, on February 19, 1961. Mr. O'Callaghan had been manager of the Sinclair refining Co. in Ironwood for thirty years. He is survived by his \vidow and a son. 
GERALD M. B.ARRETT, '22, of Omaha, Ne­braska, died March 14, 1961. Mr. Barrett was con­nected ivith the real estate business at the tune of his death. 
AARON HUGUEXARD, "22, of South Bend, Indiana, died March 5, 1961. Mr. Huguenard, secretary- of The Soutli Bend Tribune and former president of the Indiana Bar Association, had been ill for a year and a half and had been confined to his home since last November. He also served as organizer of the United Fund of St. Joseph County, director and sccretar>- of Memorial Hospi­tal, and was appointed a charter member of the 
H.AROLD E. McKEE, '22, of Western Springs, Illinois, died March 8, 1961. Mr. McKee was a partner in the company of Weinberg and McKee, catalog compilers and publishers in Chicago. He is survived by his widow, a son, Harold E., '59, a daughter, and his mother. 
D. EDWARD CHAPLLV, '23, died August 7, 1960, in Clearfield, Penns^ivania, according to wore! received in the Alumni Office. He is survived by his vrife, and three sons; Daniel, 60; Andrew, '62; and John, '63. 
NEIL W. FLINN, '23, of Superior, Wisconsin, died March 6, 1961. At the time of his death Mr. Flinn was associated with the Veterans Ad­ministration Regional Office in Milwaukee. He is survived by a sister-fn-law. 
REV. ANDREW J. CAPESIUS, '24, of St. Ber­nard, Alabama, died December 18, I960, according to word received from his brother. From 1929 until his illness in November, 1960, Father Capesitrs taught at the St. Bernard Abbey. 
THOMAS J. WALSH, '24, of Chicago, Illinois, died April 8, 1961, according to information re­ceived in the Alumni Office. Mr. Walsh ^%-as a sales executive for the Ape,v Jfotor Fuel Company at the time of his death. While at Notre Dame he was student manager of the football team in the da>-s of the Four Horsemen. Survivors include his widow, a son, and a brother. 
SISTER iL\RY AQUINAS FLOOD, O.S.U., '28, Ursuline Nun of Old Washington, Ohio, died February 18, 1961, in Good Samaritan Hospital, Zanesville, Ohio. 
CHARLES E. DeWITT, '30, of Granger, Indiana, died November 26, 1960, according to information received in the Alumni Office from his wife. 
WALTER T. DeBAENE, '31, of Rochester, Michi­gan, died on January 31, 1961 after a long ill­ness. He was an accountant and tax consultant. He is survived by his wife, four daughters, a son, his motlier, a sister and a brother. 
STANLEY T. NOWOTARSKI, '31, of Chicago, Illinois, died April 4, 1961. At the time of his death, Mr. Novvotarski was an attorney for the Veterans administration and the army signal corps. Surviving are his wife, mother, and a brother. 
FREDERICK E. CARMODY, '32, production en­giru^r in the general office of Union Producing Co. of Shreveport, Louisiana, died March 1, 1961. He is survived by his tvifc, daughter, son, two sisters and a brother. 
CHARLES F. WEISS, '32, owner of the Town and Country Camera Shop in South Bend, Indiana, died April 5, 1961, after suffering a heart attack. He is survived by his wife and daughter. 
.MOST REV. JOHN M. McNAXURA, LL.D. '34, Amdliary Bishop of Baltimore and Washington, died November 26, 1960. 
JOHN J. LEVICKI, '37, of Lakewood, Ohio, died February 13, 1961, according to information received in the Altrmni Office. He is survived hy his wife. 
DR. HUGH B. O'DONNELL, '38, a member of the staff of Milford Hospital in Milford, Con­necticut, died March 11, 1961. Dr. O'Donnell was a Diplomat of the American Board of Surgeons and a member of the American College of Abdominal Surgeons. Survivors include his ^vife, two sons, tw*o daughters, his father, brother, and two sisters. 
SISTER M. CLARE O'BRIEN, C.S.C., '42, of the Provincial Hoirse in South Bend, Indiana, died January 30, 1961, according to word received in the Alumni Ofiice. 
THONUS W. CAIN, JR., '43, Niles Municipal Court judge of Niles, >fichigan, died Febnrary 19, 1961, after a two-month illness. Judge Cain had also served as Niles Justice of the Peace from 1945 to 1956, and was a law partner of Attorney Keith Ball. Surviving are his wife, daughter and mother. 
MATTHEW J. O'BRIEN, '44, of West Peabody, Massachusetts, died February 15, 1961, according to information received from his wife. 
MICHAEL J. GANEY, JR., '46, of Chicago, lUilub, died in June, 1960. At the time of his death, Mr. Gancy was coaching at Loyola Academy in Chicago. 
ROBERT D. LIGHTFOOT, '53, of Buena Park, California, died Augirst 14, 1959, according to word received in the Altrmni Office. He is survivxd by his wife. 
\ ,• 

An intellectual service of the Uhivenltr ql Koira DaBm for the, constant enridunent-of'the^^minijb' ( 
of Notre Dame's diverse fdmilT i'' , '
flKsikiiiieTilDITIOI 
'w­

.••••'•:•-'•,- '•r-' '^ 
J4 Dialogue 
American Philosophy 
J. W. CULLITON AND J. R. MALONE ' 
Bimness m America has long since passed the stage k where its sole objective is profit for the owner with com­plete disregard for the rights of others.' ' Changes in business and society have been manifold. In many cases there is no such thing as "the oioner" be­
: cause ownership is dispersed among thousands of stocTc-Tiolders; we have seen the growth of specialisation, large-scale enterprises and the improvement of managerial skills; the professional manager has begun to emerge; and the climate of business has been altered by social pressures and governmental decree. All these changes raise serious, questions of whether theories have kept pace with the facts of life. 
Whether one feels that these changes are goad or bad 
C
ULLITON: , . ' 
•WHENEVER- PEOPLE discuss America philosophically 
. someone usually, makes a proposition like: '.'America is better at doing: than it is at explaining' why,"^_or "America knows 'what it is agaiiist better than what it is for." The sense of these and other similar observations is about the same: we are quite con-vin'ced that we "have something.here" but we have never been able to articulate 'vvhat it is. ^ 
Clearly, too, the implication is that these observations are true and that somehow or other we would be better off if they were not. As might be-expected, the number of people who believe that the propositions are true ^- and lament it — 
I far outnumbers those who have taken the next step and tried to do something about it. But even those who have tried have not, in my opinion, been overly successful and have tended to contribute additional e-vidence to the charge that we have never been able to articulate what we have or what we favor. 
This is the broad 'view. What about business in this pic­ture? Businessmen, by, and large, feel that they are mis­understood and that the community does not appreciate their contribution to and their place in the'American way of life. Worthy, in his book,^ Big Business and Free Men, eloquently personalizes this idea and shows how it affects businessmen as men. The following are some key sentences picked from the first few pages of his book: ,­
. . "Business in America'occupies a place of unique prestige ' and power. Collectively businessmen represent one of the I^er^ p groups of our society." 
one cannot deny them nor ignore the many-problems they produce, both for those in busiiiess and for citizens gen­erally in their attitudes toward business. It is. for iftis. reason that this month we present a dialogue in 'print be­tween Dr. James W. CuUiton, dean^of the College of Com­merce, and Professor John R. Malotie, head of the Depart-' ment of Marketing Management. The dialogtte ia'not intended to be a complete treatise .of the problem nor of any one segment of it. Rather, it repr^ents\d sampling of the kind of running conversation that taJces place among those seriously concerned with business, not solely for, its materialistic contributions to the American standard of living but also for its intimate intertwining with the gocis' and ideals of our society. ' " ,/ , 
"Nor is their power confined to .economic affairs,. They are 
consulted on all matters involving the "welfare ot the com­
munity and their advice carries weight" ^ • •", 
"The business system itself is one of, the key institutions' 
of American society." .', -' . , ^; "The skepticism.of 'intellectuals' toward.business is espe-^ 
cially disturbing." . "• : 
"Nevertheless, businessmen tend td fed uneasy about their ^ 
position. Large numbers of people seem to look on the bust-. 
ness system 'with skepticism; suspicion, 'land hostility.-, A 
considerable amount of legislation during./the thirties 'was . enacted on the basis of anti-business slogans." ^ / \' 
"The businessman is disturbed tiuit other groniudo not 
always share his values." ' ^ ! 
"Thus for all the undoubted power^ and prestige of the 
businessman in contemporary society, he is frequently ill at 7 
' It also seems to me that non-businessmen tend either to ignore business in their attempts to construct an American, philosophy or to interpret its position' in a. fasbipnj fax dif-, ferent from that which an understanding^of the facts 'would i warrant. I do not intend, at this time, to open up the .argu­ment as to where the truth lies. The.significance of the point , here is solely that the differences-'of attitudes toward bW­ness reflect, in part, the absence of' toi/articnlat^'detailed' national philosophy. ' ; -,1 
Yet, quite frankly, I 'am not tembly concerned about the 
absence of an "articulate detailed philosophy" for America. 
In my 'view, it is a healthy sign. I submit that a'philMophy 
does exist but because we are a people who tend to shy away 
r 

from emotionalism and from verbalizing what looks like emotionalism, the inarticulateness is a significant part of the philosophy. Our real philosophy is rather commonly agreed upon in a simple and inarticulate way. i 
First Things First 

T
HE REAL AMEBICAK philosophy rather parallels the Gospel story. "Seek ye first the kingdom of heaven and all these things will be added unto you." We have achieved two things which the rest of the world envies, 1) a high material standard of living and 2) world power. Other nations of the world seek these things because ap­parently man has always sought them; now they seek them ^vith renewed vigor because America's success has dramati­cally demonstrated to what extent they are really attainable. 
But they, and sometimes perhaps we, miss the basic point. America once was an "undeveloped" or, at least, an under­developed country. But material wealth and world power were not our national goals. In its origins the country feared tyranical governments which would interfere with personal liberty. Deliberately the new country decided to pay the price even of an inefficient government in order to assure the in­dividual's freedom. The setting has changed, but under­neath it all the basic devotion has not Despite mistakes and failures to achieve our goals completely and despite the opinion of the viewers-with-alarm that we are embi-acing creeping socialism the freedom of the individual is still our national goal. This has been the "kingdom of heaven" which we seek. And out of this has come the release of the spirit; work for reward; and invention and innovation. And through this has been added unto us our "developedness," high stand­ards of living and world power. And world power we not only did not seek but have consistently tried to avoid! 
Another view of the question of whether we need a detailed philosophy might be taken from Father Bruckberger.= He attributes our greatness to the willingness and ability to compromise the ideal with the possible. For this reason he tei-ms America's the most successful revolution because his­tory shows that idealists who refuse to compromise end up as terrorists proclaiming: "You shall be free — according to my rules — even if I have to kill you to make you free." 
This suggests that a full-blown philosophy could, con­ceivably, get in the way of our achievements and the absence of it has been one of our greatest sources of strength. It also, however, suggests what I think is more basic and gives added meaning to Professor Malone's observations below. It is that we have had a kind of inner philosophy which was adequate to determine direction and set up rough guides as to when excesses were being perpetrated (eg., anti-trust laws, security regulations, F.T.C. regulations) but which allowed a lot of freedom for variations, for trial and error, and for innovations (some of which eventually would be outlawed). It is more practical than pragmatic. 
Philosophically this suggests that we should continue to articulate (or perliaps not articulate too much, but just live by) a few basic ideals and give full range for inventiveness and ingenuity to their application — knowing full well tliat some of the specifics will really be contrary to what we really want, but tliat we will correct them after the fact rather than before because before-the-fact correction would also eliminate too many desirable things. 
Our philosophy, therefore, is vei-y simple (and also quite compatible ^vith Christianity): we seek as much freedom as possible for the individual and as few as possible specific unchangeable definitions of what this means. This articula­tion perhaps doesn't mean vei-y much but that is somewhat intentional; it also leads to confusion, lack of clear-cut directives "or mandates; and makes each generation "sweat it out" and even learn anew what idealists might think could more efficiently be passed on as dogma from one generation to another. 
Such a statement of our philosophy does one other thing which may be an essential. It not only allows but practically demands a lot of argument and discussion which generates enough attention to the really basic ideals to keep them alive ^ and in the foreground. For, very realistically, the phrases • "as much'as possible" and "as few as possible" are meaning­less. They take on meaning only as people discuss them in the light of very specific circumstances; most importantly, you do not get in the habit of finding the pat answers in the idealist's bureaucratic rule book. 
Given these facts of life a full blown, completely codified philosophy is a contradiction. ' 
MALONE: , / 
It is all right to be philosophical about this but there are at least two major areas in which the dean's remarks seem academically ideal rather than reaL or more for Fpurth-of-July speeches than a true picture of fact. The first is on the international scene. There is adequate evidence that this # "seek ye first individual freedom" is not, the image of us either held by other nations or projected by our own citizens in the world. Secondly, our own domestic economy has many evidences which are^contrary to the nice sounding generaliza­tions. It is particularly these domestic situations which I would like to discuss. 
CULLITON: 

I have to agree that Professor Malone has adequate evi­dence to justify making his objection. There is, however, another facet to my proposition which I think is fundamental. We are living in a real world — one degraded by original sin, if you will — and few, least of all I, expect it to be perfect. What I was referring to is the underlying objectives _ or goals and, in this connection, I think, JamesB. Conant "' makes a fundamental point: 
"The morale of a small group of men or a large nation (if it is a free nation) depends in no small measure on agreement as to the ends for which all labor.' Ideals in an open society like ours represent goals toward -which men and women may move by concerted action. They never can be reached in practice — almost by definition — but we can readily recognize "whether we are moving toward them or retreating."' 
MALONE:, 

I accept this modification andj in this sense, my observa­tions could be looked upon as questioning whether we^are moving toward or retreating from our ideals or objectives., ( It is quite clear to any observer that as a nation we are beset with problems of recurring-recessions, the adequacy of eco­nomic growth, a tenuous position in international trade and finance, and persistent unemployment. It would seem that instead of attacking these problems thi-ough a series of symptomatic treatments^ we woidd do better to dedicate our­selves to fundamentals. It is my contention that this means " 
-a full restoration of the market system. Such a restoration does not meaii going back to some point in the past but rather calls for a careful and precise spelling out of the ways in which we can — utider a rule of law — insure freedom and fairness in our competitive-system. 
To put this issue in its proper perspective it might be well to review briefly the alternative systems under which ^ economic activity is organized. It is easiest to do this if we " start with the extremes, which, at one end, we may call the budget system and at the other the market system. 
References 
1.
 Worthy, James C, Big Business and Free Men, Harper, and Brothers, New Yox-k, 1959. 

2.
 BiTickberger, Rev. R. L., O.P., Image of America, The Viking Press, Inc., New York, 1959. ­

3.
 Conant, James B., America's Fitness to Survive. Copyi-ight, 1947, Retail Trade Board, Boston Chamber of Commerce, 80'Federal St., Boston, Mass. 


^ The Two Systems Compared 
T
HE BASIC PROBLEM of any economic system is to allocate resources to their most productive use. The resources are scarce, in the sense that they are not •unlimited no matter how generously they might be available to one country as compared with another. And, while they may be combined in many ways (as, for example, various mixes of labor and machine inputs) there is, at any one time, only one actual combination. The question, then, is how this allocation of scarce resources is actually determined. 
It is easy, in an analysis such as this, to be thrown off the track by a discussion of private vs. public enterprise. Frequently the phrase "private enterprise" is used as if it were synonymous with the market system or the American way of life. This is not necessarily accurate. The market 
C system, it is true, supposes free decisions on the part of individuals. But, if this is taken to apply solely to economic decisions in the market place one falls into the fallacy of the economic man. 
This free economic man is also the same free political man. He can vote and decide with ballots as. well as with dollars. If, then, he freely chooses to make joint decisions along with his fellow men—rather than individual decisions in a market place — such is his right. Thus, public enterprise as well as private enterprise can be conducted in a free and fair fashion; by the same token it can be conducted in-an unfair and unfree fashion. 
The budget system, as exemplified in the Soviet Union, implies virtually complete \Control of economic life in order ^ that resources may be fully dedicated to the attainment of the particular goals that have been established by the State, which in the case of Russia are focused on the aggrandize­ment of the State - in order to gain world domination. In 
- such a "top-down" system of economic organization the in­dividual worker and, therefore, the consumer must be viewed as a means of state power rather than an end of economic activity. Prices are set by the planning authorities to facili­tate and implement the achievement of the established goals. 
At the other end of the economic spectrum is the market system whose cornerstone consists in the freedom of the in­dividual as a consumer, worker or investor to make his own decisions and plan his own behavior. The goal of such a system is not state power but the maximization of individual satisfaction as defined by each individual. As each individual 
9 seeks to maximize his satisfactions, he expresses his prefer­ence in the market place through the price system which, in turn, serves to draw some resources into the market and to repel others. Thus, values imputed to resources are in large measure merely derivatives of consumer preference. It fol­lows that shifts in consumer preference in qualitative and/or quantitative terms calls for adjustments in the production and, thei'efore, the resource mix. No resource owner can for long ignore the realities of the market place and demands of the consimier, whatever these may be. This "bottom-up" system of economic organization then is in many ways a giant servo-mechanism in which price, as the thermostat, conti-ols the total economic machine setting in motion those corrective measures that are needed to keep changes in pro­duction- and demand synchronized. It is completely auto­
% matic, with its own feed-back device. 
Thus both systems, budget and market, seek answers to the same economic question: How to allocate scarce means (labor and capital resources) to unlimited ends (the demand for an'infinite variety of products and services). Both sys­tems take accouiit of the need for the accumulation" of capital (production tools) in order that tomorrow's wox'k will be easier or inore fruitful than today's. The essential difference 
— and it is a monumental one"— lies in the difference in 
goals. ^ • • ~ 

The free market system is the economic analogue of po­litical freedom and is predicated on the belief that individual freedom is the ideal condition for the release of creative and .^productive, energy. Decision-making by the individual obvi­ously implies competition between and among individuals as % each seeks to maximize his benefits (be they wages, profits, interest, utility), and this is the necessary condition if the 
total system is to yield the optimum' allocation of resources and maximum production. At the same time,~ ^elf-seeking behavior is in the total sense the surest road to -economic equity. Put in other terms, given a series of alternate courses of action (plants to invest in, meii to hire, products to buy,. stock to purchase)^the ideal criterion for siich a decision is maximum benefit. Anything else is an uneconomic decision'in that it thwarts the operation of the system. 
The Problem Defined 
A
ND NOW A PARADOX comes into view. Supposedly the free market system should outproduce its rival. Yet the debate that currently rages stems from a gnawing-doubt about the validity of this assumption.'' What is wrong? 
I submit that the above assumption is true but that our difiiculty in the U. S. stems from the fact that we have failed to maintain such a free market system in all of its ramifications. Instead we have permitted a growing number of interferences which have dulled the system, making it less sensitive and responsive to rapid changes in market realities and thus preventing and thwarting economic development commensurate with our potential in 'terms of our human and material resources. If this is so, how did it come about? 
Ideally free men should act like free men in all respects; namely moi-al, social, political and economic. This would imply that man should exercise his rights with prudence but that at the same time he be fully cognizant of the duties and responsibilities which are symetrical to those rights. More specifically in the economic order, this means that free­dom of individual action brings with it the responsibility for creating and maintaining those conditions which insure the successful operation of the market mechanism — conditions which permit it to do its task accurately and quickly. But' herein lies the problem. Although a goodly number of free ­men willingly accept responsibilities and duties of economic freedom, a great number do not. The latter, when confronted with the finality and impersonality of powerful market • forces, choose instead to attack the system rather than make the adaptations which the market demands. The attack by the enemies of the market system is of two types: one seeks to restrict competition; the other seeks to pervert it by in­troducing weapons which are either ethically or socially un­acceptable. In either event, the market system is denatured and is no longer able to perform its rightful function in the sector affected. 
Each of these deserves further comment. 
Restriction of competition is easily achieved. It is simply 
a matter of bringing about among competitors some kind of 
agreement, either explicit or tacit, not to compete. Most 
forms of athletics imply some kind of competition and when 
there is prior agreement not to compete, a settlement in ad­
vance of who is to win, the game or match becomes pretense 
and the spectators are thereby cheated. Generally the layman 
associates such collusion with decisions on the part of a group 
of business corporations or their representatives to fix prices 
in a market and determine production quantities or market 
participation. But it'is naive to think only of this in­
stance. Any time groups of competitors (be they producers, 
retailers, wholesalers, laborers, investors) agree to collude 
rather than compete, the operation of the market mechanism 
is interrupted and rendered. ineffective. Business and labor 
have no monopoly on interference with free competition. 
Even the government on certain occasions and in certain 
sectors may interfere with the fuU operation of competitive 
forces. I think we must admit that government has the right 
and at times even the duty to interfere with or even suspend 
the competitive mechanism. While government's rights and 
duties are based on different gn^ounds than those of private 
citizens, we should not, blindly, assume that good intentions 
— even by the government — can overlook the" possible bad -effects of interfering with the competitive system. 
Perversion of competition is often a handier way of com­bating powerful market forces^, particularly when collusion is difiicult (too many people must be brought into the agree­ment) or time-consuming. Here again the examples are myriad and indude false and misleading advertising, price-
packing, destructive price vrars to gain control of the market, 
bribery, kickbacks, rebates, the paid plug, mislabeling, boy­
cotting, featherbedding, slowdowns. 
In many ways this weapon is more insidious than restric­tion since it is unilateral, often more diificult to prove. Al­though the forms are many, they all share one common characteristic: the party on the opposite side of the trans­action is disadvantaged, particularly if the latter places his confidence in the seller or buyer, whichever the case may be. 
These forms of competition perversion have their counter­part in athletics when one of the competitors or both are I>ierfectly willing to fight but seek unfair advantage through the use of illegal weapons or tactics. _ 
The Remedy 
Q
UITE OBVIOUSLY LBGISLATUKES at all levels of government, federal,' state and local, have long since recognized the need for some kind of legislation to deal with both 
attempts to restrict and pervert competitions. For example, 
at the Federal level we have had several acts of Congress in 
this field, notably the Sherman Act, the Clayton Act, The 
Eobinson-Patman Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act 
and the anti-merger law. Our great- tradition of common 
law continues to provide relief for those injured by these 
practices. And all of these have some counterparts at the 
state and local levels. However, they have failed to cope 
with the problem ^for these reasons: 
1.
 They have represented a patchwork of legislation aimed in many cases at dealing with rather specific situations which may be irrelevant in today's world. 

2.
 In many cases the legislation has.been poorly worded, ambiguous, representing anything but a clear state­ment of principle by which business decisions could be made. As a result the courts in their decisions have done the legislating rather than the legislature, 

3.
 Enforcement has been complicated by interminable legal /wrangling (trials have themselves become a competitive game), bringing about situations of per­petual violations and perpetual trials. Further, in most cases little or no action has been taken to avoid a repetition of the violation. 

4.
 All these -^ patchwork, ambiguity, court "legislation," wrangling — result in conflicting and contradictory rules making willing compliance difficult and cunning defiance profitable. 


All of these could be overlooked if it were not for the 
most serious drawback of all — the absence of an orderly 
scheme for insuring the effective and efficient operation of 
the market system. 
Our earlier consideration of the characteristics of the market system stressed the fact that such a system operates sufficiently and automatically, provided competition, is kept free and fair in the full import of these words and as ap­plied throughout the system. In other words, contrary to the liberalism of the 19th century, the market system im­plies a disciplined system whose environment is carefully controlled by a rule of law. Complete economic freedom with no holds barred is not freedom but anarchy in the economic order and can lead to nothing but chaos in the short run and stagnation in the long run, accompanied by the grossest inequities. It is tantamoxmt to sending two athletic teams out on the field with no insurance that they have not colluded on the one hand, and with no rule book or referees (whose presence would be ridiculous without a rule book) on the other. ; V ^ 
< It is my contention that the present structure of law is 
weak and spotty and lacking in real effectiveness chiefly, be­
cause it is in large measure but a forced compromise with. 
the 19th century economic philosophy of laissez faire which 
taught that the economic system is in its natural state only ~ 
when left alone and that any" kind of control would neces­
sarily weaken it. i 
We. have "come, to confuse the control of the environment within which economic activity takes place with the control of economic activity itself. The latter, of course, represents the totalitarian approach or the budget system thereby government controls economic' life. This confusion has pre­vented us from adopting the truly democratic remedy which would call for,'a tight control of the way in which the g^e , is played — the rule book — in order to insure a system which is both free (unrestricted competition) and fair (nn­perverted competition). The analogy of the servo-mechanism is again useful. The completely automatic machine can' per­form its true function accurately and efficiently and un­aided by hmnan h^d s only if steps are taken to insure tight control of the environment such as the temperature, humidity and cleanliness of the air. 
CULLITON: ^ ' . On the surface it might appear that Professor Malone ' is in complete disagreement with my proposition that we should not seek to develop a detailed philosophy, for he is arguing that we need a set of ruZes which can be easily applied to a game in which all the contestants and the ref­erees knbw, in advance, what the rules are. In this fashion' alone, he argues, can we assure competition which is free and fail-. And herein lies the paradox of individual freedom in our modem world. No individual can be, economically self-suffi­cient, especially if he wishes to enjoy the material benefits of an industrialized society. We are economically too inter­dependent to insist on individual or family or even com­munity self-sufficiency. And- yet, such interdependency im­poses restrictions on individual freedom. The rewards are , probably worth the cost if the particular types of interde-' pendent relationships are freely, chosen and there are, in fact, free alternatives. In our complex world even that substitute is hard to gruarantee. And this is what really concerns Malone. 
My observations, I believe, look to our ultimate goal of individual freedom while Malone's emphasized the structural problems of realizing such goals in a complex, industrialized society. I recognize the need for freedom and fairness in competition; I recognize' the need for revision of our ac­cumulated laws regulating (or restricting) competition. I am somewhat reluctant to subscribe without reseiVation, how­ever, to tlie athletic contest analogy requiring rule books and referees, not because I want anarchy or chaos, but because such means of guaranteeing freedom and fairness somehow or other seem to have, an inherent tendency either to become I an end in themselves (thereby subverting the real objective 
'of individual freedom) or to restrict innovation, invention, and initiative which are not only the expressions of individual freedom but are the real-streng^ths of the market system vs. the budget system. ' ' / 
MALONE: The dean has put his finger on the crucial point — the parabolic relationship between two critical variables, name­ly, economic productivity.on the one hand and the scope of the economic "rule book" on the other. Too few rules, too generally stated, can only mean chaos as corbpetitioh is re­stricted and pervei:ted by those who are not equipped or dis­posed to cope with" the powerful forces of the market. Con­trariwise, too many rules, too specifically stated, can only 4 stifle economic acti'vity by making it an endless legal battle. The key., problem consists in discovering the optimum point between these two extremes. And discovering such a point (and rediscovering it, because it constantly changes, in a changing world) assumes, not only an intimate knowledge ' of the competitive system on the part of each individual, but • a personal commitment .by these same individuals to live by the rules as drafted. Finally I would agree that the "rule book" has to be written arid rewritten so as to give full rein to the -forces of innovation and experiment on the part of jthe producer, investor, and consumer. 
It^would be a tragedy, indeed, if the competitive system were written off as an unworkable apparatus for economic decision-making when, in truth, it, had never been tested in the only environment in which it can live and flourish -!- the € rule of law. ?..-.' 
Sympathy 

PAUL M. BUTLER, '27, on the death of his mother, February 12, 1961. 
J. ROSS HARRINGTON, '29, on the death of his mother. 
FRANCIS R. LANGRILL, '30, on the death of his father, January 13, 1961. 
MORRIS B. COOPER, "36, on the death of his father, April 10, I96I. 
JAMES F. a\RSON, '38, on the death of his mother, March 17, 1961. 
Wx\RD Ri\FFERTY, '40, on the death of his mother, February 9, 1961. ROBERT E. 0'&\LLAGHAN, '45, on the death of his father, Februarj- 19, 1961. JERO.ME P. HENDEL, '47, on the death of his fatlicr, February 17, 1961. GERARD J. HELKER, '48, on the death of his f mother, February 10, 1961. ROBERT H. KARL, '50, on the dcaUi of iiis father, September 15, I960. WALTER J. LcMUNYON, JR., '32, on the death of his father, August 23, 1939. MILTON J. BEAUDINE, '54, on the death of hU father, March 20, 1961. RICHARD K. SCHMIDT, '57, on the death of his father, January, 1961. EDWARD J. HICKEV, JR., '59, on the death of his mother, February 22, 1961. 
50-Year Club 

On Universal Xotrc Dame Night the Notre Dame Club of Chicago paid a special tribute to JOSEPH 
J. SULLIVAN, SR., '02, on the fiftieth anniversary of his first term as president of the Chicago Club 
^ in 1911 (he \%-as rc-clcctcd in 1928). Mr. Sulli\-an also figured prominently in tlie re-organization of the national Alumnr Association in 1908 and of the Chicago Club in 1919. He was president of the Alumni Association in 192h Mr. Sullivan has been an attorney for various municipal developments in Chicago (his son, JOSEPH J. SULLIVAN, Jr., '27, is also a lawyer in Chicago) and active in local Republican politics as a candidate for judge, etc. 
Pray for the repose of JOSEPH JENKINS, '02, who died last November In St. Charles, Mo. 
Notre Dame Night in Detroit also marked the 45lh anniversary of the Detroit Club's founding, with F. HENRY ^VTJRZER, LL.D. '98, as the first president. Featured at that first meeting were a talk by REV. WILLUM A. MALONEY, C.S.C.; a message from the president of Notre Dame, REV. JOHN A. CAVx\N.\UGH, C.S.C.; and a telegram 
'from KNUTE ROCKNE announcing the birth of Knute, Jr. 
Reminders of those jubilees were furnished by J.VMES SANFORD, '15 who also reported attend­ing a s>Tnposium with DAN O'CONNOR, '05. 
CHARLES J. BAAB, '00, sends the foHouing: "The story of DR. DOOLEY and his devotions at the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes at N.D. brought memories back to me. Memories of days when I renewed the lights in the crown and the crescent of Our Blessed Mother atop the Golden Dome. It gave me great joy that I was privileged to pay this tribute to her. On those daj^ when the icy blasts off Lake Michigan s\vcpt across the flat lands of Indiana (I was used to mountain countr)-) it was a real sacrifice. I also helped Professor JEROME GREEN in taking care of the storage batteries m the steeple of the Church of the Sacred Heart . . . used in connection with his wireless 
I telegraphy Outfit. As one of Prof. Green's assistants  helped design and construct the wireless outfit. Our first successful communication ^^'as between 
N.D. and St. Mar>*'5 Academy. Later, through the courtesy and financial assistance of the Chicago Tribune, we made further experiments in that city under magnetic conditions of electric power lines and steel structures, w^hicli made the transmission more difficult. FATHER SCHUMACHER . . . called my attention to it when I xisltcd Notre Dame in 1952." Tlianks, Mr. Baab, for another \'aluable contribution to the annals of N.D. 
The ALUMNUS schedule was sudi that the deaths of BYRON KANALEY, MSGR. MAURICE GRIFFIN, JUDGE GALLITZEN FARABAUGH, and WILLLVM BRAUCHLER, all of the Class of '04, were recorded in the spring issue with brief notices. That those notices were no measure of their contribution to Notre Dame is suggested by ia memoir of Mr. Kanaley and the late JOHN F. FITZGERALD, then mayor of Boston, at the 1915 Commencement. /Vs president of the AlmnnI As­sociation Mr. Kanaley introduced "Honey Fitz" 
DR. GEORGE N. SHUSTER, '15, looks on as Loyola's Father Robert Mulligan presents a scroll to Samuel Smith (left), vice-president of the Amalgamated Cloth­ing Workers, for sponsoring Shuster's lec­tures at the Chicago University through the Sidney Hillman Foimdation. 
at the Alumni Banquet and was present ivhen ^fr. Fitzgerald received an honorary degree. The meeting of BYRON K^VNALEY, a Harvard law grad, with the grandfather of another Har\'ard-
N.D. man (President JOHN FITZGERALD KEN­NEDY, LL.D '50) is covered in the 1915 column, again thanks to JIM S.\NFORD. Jim, inadentally, wns planning to have Chicago attorney STEVE RIORDAN of the '04 Class join in the aforemen­tioned tribute to his cousin, JOE SULL1V/\N. 
The Class of '04 has lost its fifth member since December with the death of THOMAS J. JONES in Indianapolis March 30. ^fr. Jones had con' tributcd a son to Notre Dame and the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross, Rev. Thomas P, Jones, C.S.C., '31. Deep sympathy to Father Jones, his mother and three sisters. 
Finally and most important, a semlcentenarlan salute to the memory- of REV. EUGENE P­Bl/RKE, C.S.C., "a great priest, who In his days pleased God." Not only a great priest but a great teacher, orator, author and minstrel of Noire Dame, Father Gene will live at Notre Dame as long as people read Ave Maria, pass on snatches of the gay tunes he improvised on campus life like a Calypso singer; as long, in the words of one of his many moauments, as "the Irish backs go marching by." Heartfelt 5>Tnpathy to his brother, FATHER TOM BURKE, and to all his family, both physical and spiritual, whose lives arc diminished by his death. 
1911 
Fred L. Steers 19 S. LaSalle St. Chicago 3, Illinois 

REUNION RIME Quite a few Jubilccrs have been torn, it appears From their golden companions a full 50 years So let's gather for fun in the summertime sun June 9-I0-I1 in Sweet Sixty One! 
The once-in-a-lifettme occasion is rapidly arruing. If you have not already done so, make your ar­rangements to be at Notre Dame Friday, Saturday and Sunday, June 9, 10 and 11, 1961. Rooms will be provided for you in one ol the Uni^'ersity dormi­tories or if you prefer you may stop in the Morrii Inn on the campus. 
Tlierc will be our class dinner, the alumni banquet for all reunion classes which is always a gala and Interesting affair and other home coming activities which altvays make these reunions memorable occa­sions for those who have been so fortunate as to attend. 
If you have any scrap books, pictures or me­mentos of your campus days, bring them along. Your class secretary has a 1911 Dome which con­tains complimentary pictures of the members of that noble class. We can get together and relive tliose happy and carefree days of blessed memory when car fare. Brother Leap's lemonade and fours, and an inch thick hamburger at Hully and Mike's cost a nickle. Be sure to be there so that we may laugh together at those events of yesteryear which then seemed vital and tragic but in the light of today have become humorous memories. This reunion should be one of the happy occa­sions of your life. You will leave the campus, I am sure, having a firmer and stronger appreciation of your Alma Mater. 
Those of you •who have never returned since graduation or have not been on the campus for some years will be surprised and proud of the academic and physical growth of the institution which granted you your diploma. 
Remember CARDINAL O'HARA. "RED" KELLY, HENRY KUHLE, JOSEPH OELERICH, and the others whose plans to be present were canceled by a previous appointment. 
1912 
B. J. '*Ben'* Kaiser 604 East Tenth St. Berwick, Fa. 

From the AJumni Office; With all the renewed Interest in the Golden Dome, prompted by the current project of re-gilding and replacing the metal underneath, FATHER BERNARD LANGE recalled the day when Our Lady's statue ^vas guided to the top on a ramp that extended all the way to FATHER SORIN*s statue. 
1913 
Paul R. Byrne 
360 Warner Ave. 
Syracuse 5, N. Y, 

From the Alumni Office: 
Universal Notre Dame Night In Detroit, attended 
by FATHER HESBURGH and a whole battaUon 
of the Motor City's top executives, was particularly 
pleasing to JAMES F. O'BRIEN, who was promi­
nent in the small company which founded the 
organization and held the first meeting 45 years ago. 
1914 
Walter Clements 623 Park Avenue South Bend, Indiana 

^V1LLIAM J. CUSACK reports from his law office in the Home Savings Building, 8th and Broad­way, Los Angeles, Calif., that he b still in harness and expects to be present in I9G4 at the Class' 50th. 
Last edition ivc reported Chicagoan ED^VIN J. LARNEY as moved to Florida. It's verified and apparently permanent. Ed can be located at 824 
S.E. 16th Place, Deerficld Beach, Fla. 
Other classmates on the move (though they haven't moved far] are FRANK KIRCHStAX, JR., who has left Gilpin Street for 1777 Franklin, Denver, Colo., and THEODORE J. FIGEL, who has quit downtown Dallas for Laguna Park, Clifton, Texas. 
March 31, the 30th anniversary of KNUTE ROCKNE's death, brought word that DR. D. M. NIGRO persists In his efforts to ha%*e the Rockne monument moved from a field in whlc:h Rock's plane crashed to a nearby highway. And a report from Norway says the municipal cotmcit of Voss, Rock's birthplace, is planning to erect a memorial plaque to honor a native son. 
Notre Dame AlumnuSy June, 1961 27 
1915 
James E. Sanford 1429 W.FarragutAv. ^ Chicago 40, Illinois 

TIic announcement of the Laelarc Medal to Presi­dent JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY and brother TED KENNEDY appearing as featured guest at Notre Dame Night in Boston, Mass., are reminders of a long tradition of honors from Notre Danic to the Kennedy Clan, dating back to our 1915 Com­mencement. 
A sadder reminder is the recent death of BYRON 
V. KANALEY, '06, a distinguished trustee of the University and a Harvard law graduate who, as president of the Notre Dame Alumni .'VKSocialion, began a lasting association with the Har\*ard Ken­nedys. Tlie occasion w-as Uic Alumni Banquet on the c\-c of graduation, and the principal guest was the Hon. JOHN F. FITZGERALD, darling of Massachusetts politics, soon to become as well knoivn in Washington. Introducing the next day's speaker and recipient of an honorar>' Doctor of Lati'5 degree, Air. Kanalc>* applauded the Iiumur and humanity of the man wjio made the song "Sivect Adeline" a political trademark, the ma­ternal grandfather of J.F.K. 
Since then the University has cited three relatives of "Honey Fitz," bestowing an honorary LL.D. on his son-in-Iau", Ambassador JOSEPH P. KENNEDY; naming grandson ROBERT F. KENNEDY, then a congrc^ssional investigator and now U.S. attorney general, as the senior class choice for 1958 Patriot of tlie Year; and granting his Congressman-Srnator-President grandson an academic ''grand slam" — doctorate. Patriotism Award, and now the Laetare Medal. 
Rcmcmhcr, it all started in 19J5. 
The death of WILLUM J. MOONEY, SR., in Indianapolis on March 21 was a great loss to the Class and to the Alumni Association be once 5cr\*cd on the national board. Besides his wife Dorothy, Bill left two sons. Bill Jr. and Mike, and two daughters, Mar>' Jo Mooncy Ferguson and Ann Afooney Dcgan. Your Sccrctar>- knows the Class will fuirdl his assurance to the widow that "Bill will be in my prayers always and in those of his other classmates u-lio loved him.'' 
1916 
Grovcr F. Miller 612 Wisconsin Ave. Racine, Wisconsin 
REUNION RLME 

Anniveisary nears, and for 43 yeais 
We've been parted from friends who shared 
laughter and tears. Let us toast every one with a Notre Danie bun June 9-10-11 in Sweet Sixty-One! 
From the Alumni Office: 
President LOU KEIFER and Sccretar>- GROV£ IkflLLER have been husy sending Grovcr's Patented Irish Postcartls, but the response so far has been slow. Perhaps it's because so many are involved in the FATHER HESBURGH "Program for the Fu­ture," but cixn Trustees TI.M GAUTN and JOE LaFORTUNE arc expected to drop their Founda­tion labors for the "Program for the Present," i.e., the 45th Anniversary Reunion. 
28 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 
1917 
Edward J. McOskcr 525 N. Melrose Ave. Elgin, Illinois 

Justice HARRY F. KELLY had string N.D. support in his successful bid for re-election to the Michigan State Supreme Court, including C. .\URCE VERBIEST, '20. Returned April 3 to the bench he had occupied lor seven years. Judge Kelly continued building a record that includes two terms apiece as Michigan's Governor and Secretary of State and 35 years active practice in all branches of law. 
His election was assured by perhaps the greatest majority ever given a candidate for the Supreme Court, more tlian 300,000 voles. 
Congratulations, Governor, on the success that continues to bear out the faith implicit in Notre Dame's honorary doctorate in 1944 and honorary degrees from half a dozen other scliools. Your Alma Mater will always be grateful for your con­tribution as a national president of the Alumni Association, governor of the Foundation, president of the N.D. Club of Detroit, etc 
Belated s\mpathy to the widow of JOSEPH E. DORAIS, Miami, Fla., who apparently left our ranks some months ago although the date of death is not certain. 
1918 
Charles W. Call 225 Patcrson Ave. Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey 

From the Alumni Office: 
Heartfelt s\Tnpathy and prayers go to the widow and son of ROBERT 0'C/\LLAGHAN in Iron­wood, Michigan. Bob, who was with the Class on campus from '14 to '16, died back in February after type was set for the spring issue. 
Secretary- CHARLES W. C\LL expected to leave hibernation in Florida March 27 in order to be home in New Jcrse>- by Easter, may very well be off lo Europe at the lime of ivriting (April) according to a winter note. 
1919 
Theo. C. Radcmaker Peru Foundry Co. Peru, Indiana 

From the Alumni Office: Our column tliis time is a rich e\'ocation of the near dear past, as well as a stirring testimonial to .Mma Afatcr, which accompanied a generous con­tribution to the Notre Dame Foundation from Pro­fessor GEORGE D. HALLER of the Detroit Col­lege of Law (130 East Elizabeth St., Detroit I, Mich.): "I am enclosing a contribution to thc^ endow­ment fund. .As I date the check, I am reminded that just 50 years ago, !n September, 1911, I en­tered Notre Dame as a first-year prep scliooler in Carroll Hall. You may be surprised, in \icw of that span of time, to learn that I hope to enter my son at N.D. in Sept., 1966. He is presently 12 years old and in the 7th grade; he spent four summers at the N.D. Camp at Bankson Lake, just prior to its sale. **Probably few of those now at X.D. can realize how different, in some respects, \%'as the school of 1911. When I last visited tlie campus in July, 1958, and saw the \'ast array of fine buildings, it was hard for me to believe that I had once trapped muskrats off the shore of the lakes. If my son enrolls, his classmates would probably think he was spooling if he said his father did that; or if he added that I was a friend of one of FATHER SORlN's associates {since by 1966 the founding will be approximately a century and a quarter in the past). Yet I had the privilege and pleasure, not only of knowing BROTHER LEO­
POLD, but of haring won the Dickens Prize for Journalism by sketching the story of his life, which \ was printed in the Scholastic about 1918, under title of *A Faithful Man.' 
**When I arrived, N.D. had fewer students than it now has teachers, or perhaps only half as many as a present day graduating class. I used to play horseshoes with FATHER CHARLES O'DONNELL when he was a fledgling priest with his poetry as yet unwritten. I remember tvhen he and the others went off as cliaplains in ^V.^^^ I; in fact I presided at llie \Vashington Hall ceremonies of fare%*cll. I also recall standing in the "bucket brigade" line at the old seminar>-fire, next to a friendly young lay instructor we familbrly called *PROF.* O'HARA, who now rests in his Caixlinal's robe not far aiv-ay, 
"Possibly only a few elders, like FR. CON HAGERTY, remember from personal experience when Carroll Hall was the home of pre-schoolers, and the customary' punishment for rule infractions was keeping the offender in the study-hall the M next free day, copying 'lines' from the Scholastic * Incidentally, due to an early literary precocity, I believe I am the only student who ever copied as 'lines,* his own printed compositions. 
"I tliink we learned to know N.D. in a fashion no longer open to the student of today. The sophisticated collegian of the '60's would not, as we 'preps' did in 1911, investigate its cvcr>- nook and cranny, whether it involved climbing the steel framework of the Dome to the very feet of the statue, or crawling under the campus through the steam tunnels. Today's student cannot sit by Father Sorin's feet in the quiet of a warm September evening and listen to the rustle of growing com; the golf course has replaced the farm. 
"I spent 8 years at N.D. (Ph.B. in Journ, '19). The years between 13 and 21 are of particular scnsitirity, and I recall many magnificent experi­ences: H-atcJiing the Abbey Players in 'Caihlcen ni Houlihan' on their first American trip; hearing^ JOE SCOTT, in Washington Hall, rc-livc the great peroration of his libel suit against the Los .-Vngcles Times; witnessing BOURKE COCKRAN dedicate the 1917'libnirj- in the style ot Daniel O^Conneli; listening to WILFRED WARD cliant the 'Idylls of the King' as Tennyson had shown him how it should be done. Boyhood at N.D. u'as enriched in many never lo be forgotten ways: sitting beside a campfire at Bankson Lake while FR. GEORGE McNAMAR;V told ghost stories; occupviug a'pew in Sacred Heart Churcli while FR. JOHN CxWA-NAUGH, in 1917, warned that men failed in life not so much through lack of brains as from de­ficient moral integrity; hiking through the as yet open and unspoiled countrv'side with FR. CON HAGERTY; taking swimming lessons from FR. BERNARD L.\NGE and HARRY HEBNER in the tiny pool behind the main Building; bcing^ coaclied, as a member of a prep football tcam,^ by a yet unfamcd varsity player at whose funeral, 15 years later, a whole world mourned. 
"I hope that something of the richness of life, as I was privileged to experience it, will one day be av-aitablc to my son. I want to help, with my mite, the scliool to be, not only an education, but a unique and precious way of life for the formative years of others, as it was for mc. I hope that now the ice is broken, I ivil] be in a position to make further gifts in the future." 
1920 
James H. Ryan 170 Maybrook Rd. Rochester 18, N. Y. f 

From the Alumni Office: It may miss the statistics page this issue, but the sudden and tragic deatli of South Bend's EDWARD 
J. MEEHAN, SR., on the eve of his retirement was reported at press time. Ed passed away on the evening of April 25, the news being received by his friend BERNARD VOLL, '17, at the Uni­versal Notre Darac Night banquet of tlie St. Joseph County N.D. Club. Ed, as a re-tread student after ^V.W. I, captured several track records that held up until the present day. For many years he had been national advertising manager for the South Bend Tribune. The Class will wish to pray for Ed and extend sj-mpathy to his wife Gertrude (1302 Hillcrcst Road, South Bend) and sons James and EDWARD J. MEEHAN, JR., '49. 
Congratulations to Michigan Governor (for thc^^ 
N.D. Foundation) Af ARCE VERBIEST on his hlgh-^ ly successful efforts on behalf of JUDGE HARRY KELLY, '17, former governor (both state and Foundation) rc-clcctcd in April to the Micliigan 
•Supreme Court. Afarcc^s %vork in the campaign is especially impressive considering that he has been trouble-shooting the special gifts phase of Michi­gan's campaign for the N.D. "Program for the Future." 
1921 
Dan W. Duffy 1101 Superior BIdg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 

REUNION RIME Well, gentlemen, here's to the classmates and peers MTio'lI return from an absence of 40 full years. From the '21-gun, a salute (that's a pim?) To June 9-I0-II in Sweet Sixty-One! 
JOSEPH R. BR^\NDY of Ogdensburg, X.Y., starts olT these snippets of correspondence running from August; 1960, to the present: "At the present Writing, it is very likely that I will make it come next June. I have become frail and delicate over the years and have waxed mellow and humble. I'll get a fresh case of vitamins and take off for the Campus and Cdapin Street — your old haunts. 
• I wonder and reflect ofT during the long winter evenings if the Burlap Twins arc about. Could you give me their address. Sec? 
"As for myself, I continue to keep fit and re­main one step ahead of the shen'fT. Am up to my neck in grandchildren which makes It increas­ingly diOicuIt to take nooncrs. By any chance will BILL FITZGERALD be back? Suppose the coward is afraid to show up. And how about BAHi\N? He should be elected to our Iiallowed ranks. Come on, Duffy, get ofT the duff and get someone back. I don't want to spend the reunion looking out the window. Haven't seen LEO KELLEY these many months although may drop down seeing that he is running off at the mouth relative to beating me at golf. And mc the Senior Champion of the Great St. Lawrence River Valley and Seaway Power Development.*' 
9 AL R. ABR/\MS, (P.O. Box 1969, Atlanta 1, Georgia) wrote: '*TIic letters you reproduced from our classmates gave mc quite a kick, and I know that all of the fellows are cnjo>-ing them as much as I am. Congratulations on a good Idea! I did want to let you knou' that as long as I can walk —• or crawl — I plan to be at the Homecoming in June '61 to help celebrate our -lOth Anniversary. Before that time, I trust that some of the *oId buzzards* w*ill go on a rigid diet to eliminate their potbcUied 'stoves' and cut down on the changes which inevitably take place over a period of forty years. As a matter of fact, only those in the construction business should be entitled to these 'additions' — one has to advertise. 
"It certainly will be a great pleasure to see old friends, clicw the fat once more and relive our da>-s at Notre Dame." 
From California, GEORGE D. O'BRIEN* filled 

A us in on 23 years: "I came to California in 1937, got into the theatre business and continued in it until 10 years ago when I got into the Catholic religious goods business in which I am still en­gaged. 
**My wife died just a year ago and now my youngest son John and I arc living alone. My daugh­ter Jean is married to a writer for the government in the defense program. They have five children (4 girls and a boy) and live real close to us. My oldest boy, George, is in the advertising busi­ness, is married and has 4 children (3 girls and a boy). 
"Figures prove that I enjoy 9 grandchildren and I do mean enjoy." 
CY KflSPER M-as another California correspond­ent: "Enjoyed receiving the comments from several cx-1921 men. Because I am alwaj-s glad to hear from you, kindly citange my address to: 2025J4 From Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation, Syra­
cuse 2, iV.Y., JAMES H. HUXFORD wrote m 
January': "I hope to be present at the class reunion 
in June. I will probably be accompanied by my 
son, J. DAVID HUXFORD, who ^vas a grad­
uate of the class of 1951. We have been discussing 
this trip for some time so I know he is interested. 
"I had a very interesting golf game with LEO 

KELLEY last Fall and see him quite frequently. 
I have not caught up with JOE BRANDY for some 
time. The last time I was in Ogdcnsburg, he was 
sick and was not receiving any visitors. I know 
he has recovered and is back working hard as 
usual." 
From Kingston Products Corporation, Kokomo, 

Indiana, .\L\RK ZIMMERER sent: "Thanks for 
your letter and the list of the class of 1921. I 
expect to be present when the roll is called next 
June. 
"Have heard from BILL SHERRY and Ivt\RL 

PFEIFFER who will be there, now all we need is 
to get BOB KRE.MP and BILL WHITE. 
From Browne-Davis, 215 West First Street, Oswe­go, X.Y., CHAS. F. DAVIS told us, "I have just made my mind up to come to the 40th Reunion. I talked to Brandy and Kcllcy on the phone — they say it looks like they'll be there. I have written DR. CU^'CY, AL CUSICK, DICK Sa\L­LAN and JACK MOONEY to urge their attendance and I hope to hear from them favorably. 
"I was disappointed not to be able to talk to JIM CLANCY on the phone the other night when I called him. His answering ser\nce said he was sick. . . . Do you know about this?" 
RICHARD >V. SCALL.AN (3612 VJcIorJa Lane, Cincinnati 8, Ohio) broke the news of his retire­ment. Said Dick: "After almost forty years with MacGregor I decided to take early retirement and sample some of the recreation I have been hearing about for so long. 
I had a nice letter from CHARI-EY DAVIS and believe me the reunion of the Class of '21 sounds interesting. We have an active N.D. Club here in Cincinnati but none of the fellows arc from our Class. . . . Rest assured, Dan, that if nothing unforsccn comes up I'll be there." 
HAROLD S. FOLEY wrote from 1199 West Pender St., Vancouver 1, B.C.: "There is a meet­ing of Board of Lay Trustees of Notre Dame May 5th. It is ver>- doubtful I can return for the re­union of those old men who finished in the Class of '21. It was quite disturbing to learn that all your friends graduated 40 years ago. I hope to get through Cleveland some time in the next years to see PETE CHAMPION and have the pleasure of talking with you." 
FORT WAYNE—On U.N.D. Night, (I. to r.) Man of the Year, and Harry Hogan, cited 
MICHAEL SCHWARZ (345 South Park, Apt. 21, Casper, Wyoming) has been employed by the Bureau of Reclamation, Region 7 "since service with Navy during. World War 11, as Seaman Ic to Chief Quartermaster, Florida thru Africa. Engaged in heavy construction on Cedar Bluff Dam and Kirvdn Dam in Kansas, Glcndo Dam and Potverplant and Fremont Canyon Powerplant in Wyoming. First on sur\'cys; then safety inspection; nmv a technical report Avriter. Will retire soon. Haven't been across the Mississippi since the war and not likely to get back to Notre Dame until after retirement. Wlte and I in fair health. One daughter married, 3 children; the other, a nun, teaching English in a parochial high school in Salina, Kansas. Regards to former classmates. Still having hopes of seeing some of you someday. Constantly on the move, I admit I have lost contact with Notre Dame." 
R. J. SCHUBMEHL wrote: "Of course I will be on campus for the 40th reunion. HARRY M o LELL^VN and I have been on the job here for the past 40 years and as far as I can remember nelthcr one of us has missed a gel-together yet. 
"WU be seeing you in June." ROGER KILEY sent a note about some class­mates: "CLIPPER SAHTH and his wife passed through Chicago last weekend. I was surprised to learn in talking with him that he did not know that DAVE HAYES* boy, David, '53, is one of America's outstanding sculptors. He recently won the fir^t prize at the American Sculpture Compe­tition at Chicago's Art Institute. Clipper, of course, was delighted to learn this. 
"It occurred to mc that if Clipper did not know, you may not have knoi^ii. An amazing part of this is that Darid's medium is metal. This would please Dave, I am sure.** 
"Dear Judge: I'll be seein* ya. Will meet ya at the entrance of the Oliver can. I understand Kelley just sits around and complains about Doan's Kid­ney Pills not being as good as they used to be. And don't forget to have me tell you about the horse I bought — a trotter. Races at Montreal. En route to St. Anne dc Beaupre call me. Have \vritten to Cactus Bill Fitz. Am breathlessly atvail­ing a reply. Regards, Agile Joe (JOE BRANDY)'* 
" . . . . your fine letter with copy of one from Joe Brandy and Mark Zimmercr is too good not to answer when you even provide a free stamped postal. I just called Bill Sherry in Tulsa and we both plan to be there. Will ^vrite Krcmp and see if he will come. I think you covered the essentiab when you included Bourbon, ^fa^tinis* and dancing girls. I'll bring a deck. Thanks. KARL PFEIFFER (Piggoti. Ark.)." 
"Will attend the 1921 reunion in June. Hope 
 Richard T. Docrmcr, named Notre Dame  by the University for Aiumni-FoaiidatioD 
sexvices, are congratulated by Rev. William Niedhart, G.S.C., Fort Wayne native and assist* 
Talmadge Street, Los Angeles 27, California." 
ant superior of \Ioreau Seminary, who gave the principal talk; Rev. J< ^ Walsh, director 
• ' EUGENE VANDEBOOM (809 \V. 39th St., 
of the N.D. Foundation, who praised Hogan's efforts in oi^anizing the Foundation; and 
Kansas City 11, Missouri) regrets that he will 
not be able to attend the reunion this year. Henry Haslcy, former recipient who made the award to Docrmcr. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ June, 2961 29 
many oi Uic boys can be back. Personal regards, 
A. J. BRAY." "I certainly hope to attend our 1921 Class — 40th Reunion and am looking forward to seeing ~-' 
Sherry, Zimmer, yourself and many others. BILL H'HITE (Ottaira, IJlinois)" 
DR. JANfES J. CLANCY will be unable to at­tend, but I am sure he would appreciate hearing from any of his classmates. Jim is ill and is recuperating at 502 S, Jay Street, Lake Worth, Florida. 
*'This is to adv-ise that I cannot make it in June. Will you please change my mailing address to 1310 Hedge Road, Champaign, 111., as I have retired from the University of Illinois and liavc sold my house because my wife passed away and my cliildren are all married. All 5 of them. At present imtil May 1st I am at Ft. Myers Beach, Florida, enjoying a long \-acation. Prof. CARL £. SHUBERT (emeritus)." 
**My chief reason for writing is so as not to waste the card which you spoiled for any other use by addressing it to yourself. 
Perhaps the entire faculty and all the members of our class xvill go into prolonged mourning when they learn that it is impossible for me to join with you in June. I'll be thinking of you and \viH send my spirit air mail. That's just In case some of ihc members may go in for spirits during the reunion. (Could that be possible?) GEORGE 
D. O'BRIEN." 
1922 
G. A. "Kid" Ashe 175 Landing Rd. No. Rochester 25, N. Y. 

During the month of ^larch, God took three fine candidates for Heaven from the 1922 Class roster 
— GERALD M. BARRETT, AARON HUGUE­NARD and HAROLD E. McKEE. The Class of 1922 can ill afford to lose these wonderful men, so they are simply being transferred to our celestial group — ive really are not losing them. Indeed, they arc going to be greatly missed by every living member of '22 because each in his own way con­tributed much to us during our under^raduale days and since we left the campus. Here, in brief, we sketch the careers of these men: GERALD BAR­RETT — died March H in Omaha, Nebraska. He leaves no close relatives; he -was a bachelor. The Dixon family of Omaha over the years have been closely assocbtcd with the Barretts. Notes of sym­pathy and Mass cards should be addressed to: Miss Marie Dixon, 621 South 37th Street, Apt. 107, Omaha, Nebraska. Jerry operated some farmlands in western Iowa for several years, and also dealt somewhat in real estate. He attended Yale Univer­sity before entering Notre Dame. 
AARON HUGUENARD — Died March 8 in South Bend, Indiana. Survivors include his wif^ Ruby; a son, Aaron, Jr.; two daughters, Anne and Jane; t^vo brothers and one sister. Aaron was a ci\ic leader, a prominent and successful lau^cr, also a newspaper executive ha%ing held until his death the ofSce of secretary of the South Bend Tribune, and being a director thereof. Aaron was a former president of the Indiana Bar Association. None of us should ever forget Aaron's great loyalty to his Class, and the time and money he spent .and the work he did to make our Class reunions "so successful. He was an cx-president of our Class and also reunion director. He ^^''as a cliarter member of Notre Dame's Advisor>' Council. The Huguenard home address is 1922 Portage, South 
Bend, Indiana. 
HAROLD McKEE — Died Marcli 6 in ^Vestc^l Springs, Illinois. He is surxived by his widow, Ellen; a son, HAROLD E., *59; a daughter, Loret­ta, with the Daughters of Charit>* in St. Louis; and his motlier, Mrs. Loretta ^fcKec Jucrjcns of IbfcHenry, Illinois. Harold was a partner in the company of Weinberg and McKee, catalog com­pilers and publishers at 600 Jacluon Boule^'ard, Chicago. Harold performed admirably as editor­in-diief of the 1922 "Dome." The McKee residence is at 4145 Lau'n, Western Springs, Illinois. We beseedb God to grant eternal happiness to the 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June, 1961 
DENVER—Speakers for Universal Notre Dame Night at the Denver Cluh accented themes of personal responsibility and University accomplbhment: (l.-r.) Carl F. Eiberger, '52, Club president; Msgr. William Jones, superintendent of parochial schools representing Archbishop Vchr and Bishop Maloney; James E. Armstrong, '25, secretary of the National Alumni Assn.; and Hon. Albert T. Franz, '29, associate justice of the Colorado Supreme Court. 
aforementioned trio, also, to three wonderful friends in the neighboring Class of 1923, who left on the same journey — ALBERT PICKS, NEIL FLDs'N, and ^VILLIA^I FUREY. Our prayers and s>-mpathy to families of the deceased. 
The JEROME DIXOXS of I57I Ridge Avenue, Evanston, Illinois, have announced the marriage of their daughter, Mary Catherine, to George Thomas Hawlcy, second lieutenant, U.S. Marine Corps, on February 25 at St. Mar>*'s Church, E\'anston. We extend our very best %mhes to the newl>-wcds, and, of course, a special salute _ to Frances and Jerry Dbton, parents of the bride. 
BERNARD and BRIAN GAFFNEY, sons of our dear classmate, C\'RIL GAFFNEY of happy mem­ory' and Mrs. Hiler GalTney Sullivan of New Britain, Connecticut, arc now full fledged lawyers with military service behind them. Both are mar­ried; Bern has two daughters and Brian has one. 
Mrs. GEORGE HENEGHAN (Phyllis) has a new South Bend address: 2425 Club Drive, South Bend 15, Indiana. Her son, Jim, was on the Norman Ross TV program from Chicago last fall. He explained h\& experiment and the recording was taped at Notre Dame. 
FATHER BOB SHEEHAN, C.S.C., from Notre Dame writes: "DR. MATT WTIS, who has been appointed by the Class, I believe, to take care of requested Masses for the deceased, recently sent me intentions and offerings from CY KELLETT, AL SCOTT, CLARENCE MANION, and FRANK (San Francisco) CONNELLY for Masses for repose of the souk of MARK STOREN, SR. and DR. HENRY ATKINSON. Matt told me that he also sent other intentions and offerings to FATHER GEORGE FISCHER, C.S.C., who \%-rites: 'It is truly complimentary to the old Class, don't you think, Kid, that the living members look after those who have gone ahead?* " 
Your secretary heartily agrees with Father Bob and highly commends DR. MATT WEIS for the splendid way he Is administering the Mass fund, and he vx'ishes to thank all who have been so generous in asmting their deceased classmates in the best possible manner. Special mention should be made of DANIEL YOUNG, who recenUy ar­ranged for a Perpetual Enrollment in the Mission­ary Servxmts of the Most Holy Trinity, Silver Spring, Maryland, for all living and deceased of '22. 
Tlie current year looms as a big one for the ED BAILEYS of JenkintOT\-n, PennsyK-ania, but let us hear from Mrs. Joan Bailey on that subject. She ^mtcs: "It is about lime someone brings you up-to-date on the E. B. BAILEY family. This year is a full one. We have the ordination of Honorable son number 6 — Brother Flavian, M.S.S.S.T., in Winchester, Virginia. His first Mass is May 28 (hubby's birthday), a graduation at Mount Aloysius Junior College, Cresson, Pennsyl­v-ania at which Father Flavian will celebrate Mass. A wedding comes June 10 — our Ann Irene to John Ambrogia here In Jenkintown, and another graduation — the last of the eleven children from McDcvitt High School, one of the last, high schools built under our beloved Cardinal JOHN O'HAR.4. We have nineteen grandclilldren to date and are still going strong. God has truly blessed us. Hope He has been as good to you. ^Vc are always happy to hear from you and all our Notre Dame friends." 
In every respect, the Ed Balle^-s are quite a " family, and wc felicitate Joan and Ed for rearing such an outstanding, large, happy and successful family. 
From Grosse Polnte Farms, Mlclilgan, writes JIM FOREN: "I always enjoy reading your notes about the Class of '22, but must admit I have been very Ixx about contributing anything. Only tlircc of us of '22 are left in the Detroit area since HUNK ANDERSON moved to Chicago. JACK HIGGINS is going strong again after a trip to the hospital some months ago. WALT MATTHES is still very active in architecture, and I have been in the real estate business for a long time. Highlight of the football year for me was watching BUCK SHA^VS Phlladelpliia Eagles win the N.F.L. championship. I hope to see you at our Class reunion in '62, if not sooner." A 
Mrs. WILFRED DUTER (Peg) from London, Ohio, kindly writes with family news: "Bill is swamped most of the time keeping Divyer Bros. Furniture and Hardware on an even keel, although he has Christmas holiday help from nephew Tom Foody, who is a freshman in engineering and in the Marine Reserve at Notre Dame in Farley Hall. Also, our T. J., age 15, helps out after school hours. Our oldest, Mar>-, age 17, is a senior at Brown County Ursullnes at St. Martin, Ohio. She is trying to decide on where to go to college. John, age 11, is a regular boy. He is a sixth grader, full of fun, and plan's tlie piano because he likes to do so." 
RALPH CORYN was In Presb>-terian-St. Luke's Hospital in Chicago around mid-January for ex­aminations and treatment of a circulatory ailment. Wc are pleased to report his stay was a brief A one and he is now back at home in ^(olIne, Illinois. 
Your secretary had an enjoyable \islt with tlie VINCE HANRAHANS of Silver Spring, Maryland early in Afarch. IVhile in the Washington, D.C area in company with Vincc, he had a chance to call on the DANNY CULHANES and PETE ECKERTE of *23. At Christmas time, he had a grand visit with the CHUCK CROWLEYS of Weston, Massachusetts. 
Mrs. ED\V1N J. BYRNE (Irene), formerly of Natchez, Mississippi, is now residing in Lafayette, Louisiana, since the death of her husband — our beloved ciassmsite. She attended the University of Southwestern Louisiana in spring a year ago, and a summer session at Indiana University. Their son is to be graduated in engineering in June from Southwestern Louisiana. Irene's mother, age 83, is living at the Byrne address — 213 Bcndel Road. 0 Apt. 21, Lafayette, Louisiana. 
We of '22 cannot be vibrant If you are dormant. 
• 1923 
Louis V, Bruggner 
2165 Riverside Dr. 
South Bend, Indiana 
Xcws of the Skidoo Class centers at the moment on matters obituary and honorary. 'With virtually all class members now in their sixties, obituaries arc becoming uncomfortably frequent. In the order of deaths, we report the following: 
ALBERT J. PICKS, PhocnLx, Arizona, where he had lived for the past 14 years, died December 30 in a Phoenix hospital, following a heart attack. He was a law graduate but had been in the in­vestment business for many years. He is survived by his wido\tf, ^f^s. Ruth Picks, 7325 Tatum Blvd., PhocnLx, and by two daughters and eight grand­children. First word of Al's sickness came from 

0 Old Faithful KID ASHE, *22 class secretary, who notified me. 
\VILLUM J. FUREY, 432 Pcashu-ay Blvd., South Bend, Ind. was next to go, his death oc­curring on January 21 in St. Joseph's hospital, after a brief heart ailment. Bill is remembered as the star soloist of the campus glee club back in the twenties, and had been employed for years at the Studcbaker-Packard offices in South Bend. His wife, Augusta, at the address above, is his sole 5urvi\-or. 
I had mailed to '23 classmates a postcard "in­terim bulletin" in January notifying them of these two deaths, and received a reply from MRS. D. EDWARD CHAPLIN, that her husband had died September 7, 1960. Neither my office nor that of the Alumni Association had known about it. 
D. EDWARD CHAPLIN, in the only letter ever addressed to me, in 1954 wrote that he had been at X.D. only one year, but was always interested 

^ in N.D. and had sent three sons to school here. His one year at Notre Dame was spent in Room 419 Badin Hall, and his roommate ^^•as CHARLIE PORTMAN, who is listed as deceased on Alumni records. Ed also said he traveled back and forth to school wnth CRAWFORD JAAflSON of Trenton, N.J- At last reports. Alumni mail addressed to Jamison was being returned unclaimed. Anybody else have any information pertaining to this trio? If so, \\Titc this comer. 
NEIL W. ("Spike") FLINN, is our most recent decedent. He died March 6 in Superior, Wisconsin, following heart 5urgcr>-. Following Mrs. Flinn*s death just a year before. Spike had been \vorking in ^fiIwaukec with the Veterans Administration, and had gone home to Superior on a visit when he died. First word came from JOHN PAUL CULLEN, LL,B. '22, ^vho worked ^vith Spike at 
^ the Milwaukee V. A. office. Neil had no immediate 
w sur\-ivors. Football and hockey Xolloucrs remember Spike viWdly from his campus da>-s and in school he was a popular boy among the boj-s, and was loved by all in Superior and at the V.A. 
On the honorary side of the news, I am pleased to pass on to Alumni the Chicago political scuttle­butt, which has twice appeared in Chicago papers, that ROGER J. KILEY, Illinois Appellate Court Judge, is being recommended by the Daley Demo­cratic organization in Chicago to fill a \'acancy in the judgeship of the Illinois U. S. Circuit Court of Appeals. No word has been received from Judge Rog, but here's hoping the appointment comes through. 
W. E. ("Red") SHE.A, we note, was elected last winter to the vice-presidency of the Alumni Association. Red's accession to this spot succeeds an earlier success of our FR--\NCIS WALLACE, one-time president of the A.A. Red has been a 
9 member of the Alumni Board for a couple of years previously. 
From the Alumni Office: 
ED CHAPHN's widow in Clearfield, Pa., ad­vised the Alumni O/Hcc that, although finances forced her husband to transfer to a Pennsylvania sdiool, one of Ed's alumni sons is now in the Holy Cross Novitiate, Jordan, Minn., and another passed up a state scholarship to enter N.D. 
Detroit's MAL KNAUS, '25, sent notice that CY HARTMAN of Jackson, Mich., steam plant engineer for Commonwealth Associates, Inc., was profiled in a recent issue of the Michigan Pro­fessional Engineer. 
Finally, congratulations to South Bend's DR. FRED W. BUECHNER, honored in March as the community's "General Practitioner of the Year" by the St. Joseph County Medical Society. Honored 
^ for "utterly tmselfish devotion to the care of the sick." Fred is a veteran of two world wars. He and wife Vera have one son, FRED BUECH­NER, JR., an N.D. grad student in chemistry*. 
1924 
James R. Mcchan 301 S. Lalaycitc Blvd. South Bend 10, Ind. 

Both the Class and the Monogram Club grieve the death of THO.\L\S WALSH on April 8 in Chicago. S>Tnpathy to his widow and son. Also to the brother and fellow priests of REV. ANDREW CAPESIUS, O.S.B., at St. Bernard Abbey, Ala. Father Andrew's death last December was not re­ported to the Alumni Office until spring. His ^LA. with the Class of '24 was followed by a Ph.D. in 1929. 
1925 
John P. Hurley 2085 Brookdale Road Toledo 6, Ohio 

Those good old questionnaires come in handy when we have a deadline to meet and no news from you fellows. I am going to cover some of you fellows ^vho have been missed in the past few issues. Let's start with the three known bachelors of the class of '25. JOSEPH ALOYSIUS MENGER, 107 Katherinc Court, San Antonio 9, Texas. Joe was unusual for a Texan .. . he didn't tell me much about himself. He said he has been seeing FRANCIS LEARY of 602 Williamson Place, Corpus Chrisii. He mentioned that HANK WURZER did a marvelous job with the "In Memoriam" cards of the departed members of the Class of 1925. WALTER J. CYR, 49 Riverside Ave., Stamford, Conn. Walt is still keeping thieves "away from the doors" with his door devices. Walt is Product Manager of Yale & TouTie Mfg. of White Plains, N.Y. He mentioned that he had a wonderful visit with BARNEY McNAB in Port­land, Ore. He mentioned that Barney had a won­derful family and that he thoroughly enjoyed the visit. DR. JOHN H. A. WHITMAN, King's Col­
lege, ^Vilkcs-Barre, Pa. "Prof ^Vhitman," as we used to call him while a "prep," is professor emeritus and dean of the Evening Session of King's College. He still sees and hears from JOHN W. HILLENBRAND and PAUL ROMWEBER, those t\%*o famous furniture kings from Batesville, In­diana. John retired in 1958 from teaching but he still continues as dean of the Evening Session. For a while he was doing a great deal of lecturing but is now, as he says, "trying to grow old grace­fully. God willing, I hope to see much of Europe in the coming years." It was great hearing from you tlirec fellows and I am sure the class will be happy to know your ^thereabouts. BROTHER NORBERT, C.S.C., is a teacher at Holy Trinity 
High School in Chicago. Holy Trinity will cele­brate its Golden Jubilee this year. The Brothers of the Holy Cross will open a second school in the Chicago area in September of this year in River Grove, Illinois. Nice going, brother! You are really doing a great job all over the world. I was happy to inspect your wonderful Notre Dame International Sdioot with BROTHER LOYOLA CRISTOPH showing me around just a year ago. They are all doing a fine job over there. 
ANSELM D. MILLER, Somerset, Prospect HHIs, Roauuke, Va., is a corporation executive and has three sons, a daughter, and t%vo charming grand­daughters. Ansc is working every day as president and trcasuicr of the Vir^nia Metal MJg. Co., Avhich he owns. For the past twenty years he has also been president of the Southwest '\^rginia Savings St, Loan Assn. He is a director of the Colonial-American Bank, director of the Shenan­dooh Club, and past pr^ident of the Rotary Club of Roanoke. It was great hearing from you, Anse, and it's good to know where we can get a loan when we need one. JOSEPH W. McCARTHY, 3710 E. Broadway, Apt. 3, Long Beach, CaliL, has been a resident of the southern part of Cali­fornia for the past three years. He finds the life of ease very ^reeable: enjoying touring the cotm­tryside in his Rambler. He has fun watcJiing the movements of his Gen. Electric and IBM stoclc. He gets into a few constructive activities solidting funds for the new L.A. Archdiocese high schools 
and some St. Vincent de Paul work. Joe, you can help Father John Walsh raise that eighteen million in the next three years. That will be another constructive activity. VINCENT J. SCHNEIDER of 40 Bowne St., Flushing, New York, is with the Equitable Life Assurance Society. "Pinky" would like to hear from PAUL MEANY, L/\RRY BAUMGARTNER, BUD BARR, PHIL MAHONEY, WILFRED MOORE, MICKEY O'CONNOR, DOG BREHM, and TED BINTZ. Pinky, I have talked with Ted Bintz in Fremont. Ted runs a fine store in that Ohio town, and his brother AL BINTZ is president of the Bintz dept. store in Zanesville. I see Al also. We had lundi together a few months ago. OTTO WILLIAM SCHOMBURG, 73 Drakes Corner Rd., Princeton, N.J., has a son and daughter. His son Thomas is studying to be a priest. Otto writes, **Since graduation I worked in Ne^\^ York City for some 20 years and lived in ^Vestport, Conn. Four yean ago I moved to Princeton and live next to "our Lady of Princeton," a convent where the chaplains are al^**ays C.S.C.'s who enjoy staying at our home. My son Is at St. Francis College, Loretto, Pa." Finally a word from A. F. *TONY" GON­Z^VLAS, F.G.U. Insurance Group, P.O. Box 12S Manila, Philippine Islands. Tony lives with his wife Mercedes and son JOSE ANTONIO, who is an N.D. grad of '58. Tony writes: "Living, as we do, eight thousand miles away from the campus, it's difficult to keep contacts. We were on the campus for our son*5 graduation in 1958, and I 
PEORIA—In a traditional U.NJ). Night ccremonr (L-r.) speaker Ed Kranse John P. Noppenbcrger, '25, presenting Ennio Arboit Memoria] Tropfajr to Qndi Ken Hinncks and Principal Harold Wcldin of Peoria Maniud Training H^i, .backed by Vxtd' dent-Chairman John Manion, '56, and Club Chaplain Rer. Dents Mackessy (seated). 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 31 
don't knoiv when we will make another trip. I am sorr>' I couldn't make our 35th reunion. It doesn't seem like tliirty Hvc years since our graduation. My ver>' best regards to all my friends at and from N.D." Tony, I hope some day to see your wonderful islands with Mrs. Hurley -. . God willing! So long box's .. . don't forget to send Hank Wurzcr (Blackhawk Hotels, Davenport, Iowa) that paxmcnt in our "Investment Club" . . . the Mass Fund of the Class of 1925. From the .Mumni OfTicc: 
Thanks and congratulations to Secretary Hurley for bis rcsourcefulnras in serving as featured speaker on a moment's notice at Universal Notre Dame Night ceremonies of the Mansfield, O., Club in the Mansfield-Leland April 10. Congrats also to much honored A. J. PORTA, now an exec with Associates Investment since resigning as executive vcep for Studebaker-Packard after 35 years. And finally to XORB SKELLEY, whose Salina, Kans., drugstore recently filled its mil­lionth prescription. 
1926 
Rudy Gocpfrich 1109 N. Cleveland Avenue South Bend 28, Ind. 
REUNION RIME Tivcnty-sixcrs, three cheers for those gay cavaliers Wc haven*t laid eyes on for 35 years! May wc meet every one ere the set of the sun On June 9-10-11 in Sweet Sixtj-OncI 
Class President JOHN RYAN writes: "The Class notes for this issue have been prepared as you notice hv a substitute for our vcr\- able Secretary*. RUDY GOEPFRICH. A few days ago, I had a letter from Rudy from Tokyo (Japan, that is. not the old South Bend dance hall). Rudy flew out of Chicago on Januarv- 17th for Paris where he spent a week or so, and then flew on to Tokyo and covered the Japan area pretty thoroughly for , about sLc weeks visiting the auto and trucking 
manufacturers. 
"Toward the end of bis stay in Tokyo, he got 
to tliinking about Chss notes for this issue of 
the Alumnus and got worried that he would not 
make the deadline. Hence, the second string cor­
respondent. However, the deadline is far enough 
away that Rudy will be back in Soutli Bend 
before that time and he may add some notes of 
his trip or report word from some of our Classmates 
that the>' intend to be back at N.D. for our 
35tli Reunion in June. 
"Looking around for a few things to report, 
wc note that RAY DURST, following completion 
of his term as director of the .Mumni Association, 
has found another spot to dc\'ote his time, cncrg>" 
and knov%'-how to the benefit of Notre Dame. He 
was recently appointed cliairman for the Chicago 
area of tlic Foundation. Knowing Ray, I am sure 
that when the final reports are in the Chicago 
area will hax'c turned in a good record. 
"The state of Illinois is getting the benefit of 
the efforts of two more of our Classmates. When 
the ne>v* Administration took office in Spring­
field, JIM RONAN was named Finance Director 
for the State. Senator ART BID\\TLL continues 
as President Pro-Tcm of ilic Illinois Senate. Since 
there is notliing political discussed in this column, 
vrc have now given equal space to both parties. 
"As I mentioned, Rudy may add something to this report when he returns to South Bend, in­cluding names of Classmates who have signified that they will be back for our 35th Reunion. It is the sincere hope of all who arc working on the Reunion that we could make a 100% return. Probably through one reason or another, wc 'will not be able to reach this figure, but having at­tended many Reunions, I have noticed tliat those who do get back thoroughly enjoy the Reunion with tlieir classmates. 
"If you have not already returned your card 
to RUDY GOEPFRICH, signifying your intent to 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 

C.\LUMET REGION—Universal Notre Dame Night obser\ance by the Calumet N.D. club featured presentation of its -1961 Man of the Year a\v*ard to James R. Morrison, president of Hammond^s Morrison Construction Company, Avhosc father, James M. Mor­rison, won the honor in 1952. Club President Benedict R. Danko congratulates Morrison (second from right) while Assistant Dean John J. Broderick of Notre Dame's Law School (left) and Club Chaplain Rev. Cornelius Bergan look on. 
be present at our 35th, please give it a little 
more thought and tr>- to revise your plans so 
that you will be with the Class. AVc hope to see 
cvcr>'one of our Classmates back for Reunion in 
June." 
Your secretary, who got home from an extended 
business trip just before deadline for this issue of 
the ALUMNUS, thanks JOHN RYAN for pronding 
the above news items. 
On January- 17, I flew to Europe (Paris) where 
I stayed a week, then fle%v to Tokyo. This was a 
long 27-hour jet flight with stops at Rome, Athens, 
Teheran, New Delhi, Bangkok and Hong Kong. 
In Japan I spent six weeks •visiting all of the 
vcliiclc manufacturers there, anal^'zing their brake 
requirements. Tlien 1 conducted an intensive train­
ing program for the engineers of our Japanese 
licensee. While it was hard work, I had some 
pleasurable week ends \-isiting the many sight­
seeing spots, all over Japan. Tlicn a leisurely 12­
day steamer vo>*age across the Pacific afTordcd a 
lot of relaxation. 
After my return, TOM FARRELL called me on tlic phone one cx'cning. He x*"as on his way to St. Joseph, Michigan, to attend a funeral. He also tried to call FR^VNK DEITLE but was unsuccess­ful. Frank told me aftcnrards that he only missed him by minutes. Tom reported that JIM WAL­DRON was a new grandfather and that Jim hears from RAOUL GOMEZ, who is fine. Also that EDDY DUGGAN burned himself in a fire accident, but is okay now. Tom also sees the New Jersey gang occassionally, DR. HAYES, DR. GELSON, EDDY BURKE, BERNIE ^\^NGERTER, DAN O'NEIL, etc. 
FRANK DEITLE'S wife, ^far^^ is in the liospi­tal for an operation. Let's remember her in our prayers. From the Alumni Office: 
Class honors, beside ART Hi\LE\'^s election to South Bend's First Bank board, include JOSEPH SHEA'S triumphant return to his native BufTalo, N.Y., as manager of the Statler after assignments throughout the Statler cliain. 
1927 
Clarence J. Ruddy 32 S. River Street Aurora, Illinois 

From tiic Alumni Office: ' RED SMITH has apparently succeeded himself as tlie nation's top sports writer. Red was chosen for the second straight year in a poll of writers and broadcasters, lianng shown no slackening of talent in his reporting of the 1960 Olympics, etc JOSEPH SULLn^AN, JR., c^ be proud of his father, a law graduate of 1902 who has been honored by the N.D. Club of Chicago on the 50th anniversary of his first term as president of 
that organization. Joe followed his dad in Chicago 

law practice and alumni affairs. 
1928 
Louis F. Buckley 
68-10 108th Street ­
Forest HilU 75, N. Y. 

I am pleased to report a birth, marriage and retirement In this issue. MIKE HOG/VN sent a clipping announcing the birth of a daughter to WAYNE J. BUSH-M.VN in Fort ^\•avnc- Indiana. |T P.\UL BRUST, an architect in Milwaukee and a * widower, \%"as married in October. The first re­tirements of which I am aware are those of GEORGE WAG-VER, retired from the U.S. Coast Guard, and GEORGE LEPPIG, retired colonel of the U.S. Marine Corps. GEORGE WAGNER is living on a farm near Pcrr^svillc, Ohio, and raises chickens, pheasants and rabbits. GEORGE LEPPIG is Police Chief, Dade County Public Safety Department, in Miami, Florida, and has two cliildrcn, ages 12 and H. FRED RUIZ, who is teacliing in La Jolla, California, has 10 grandcliildren, which is the largest number re­ported tlitis far, %\-ith ED ^^cCLARNON a close second with 8 grandchildren. 
Wc had a number of visitors since my last column, including: VINCE C-VRNEY of Rochelle, \ Illinois, who stopped on his way to Europe to • sec his daughter, who is in school in Fribourg.^ Switzerland; DAS \'^RRILLI, who is still ^ , bachelor and in the bakerj' business in Morristown, i New Jersey; JOHN RICKORD of Armour Com­pany, Chicago, with GEORGE CRONGEYER, still a badtclor, witli Metropolitan Life Insurance Com­pany in New York; our Class President, JIM ALLAN, with his wife and son, who is at Har­\-ard Law ScJiool; and Father MIKE MULC/MRE, CS.a , who was here for FATHER FiU\NK BOLAND's funeral. Father Boland, C.S.C, was a cliaplain at the VA hospital here in New York at the time of his sudden death. 

While speaking in Omaha, I met JOHN FORGE and LES CARRIG. JOHN FORGE is still with Goodyear Tire and Rubber Companv and has SLx cliildrcn. LESTER J. CARRIG is regional manz^er of Field Enterprises and is in the sales part of the business. Lester is married and has a son and three grandchildren. HOWIE PHALIN' executive xice president and director of sales fo 9 the Field Enterprises, Inc. Educational Corpora­tion, \vas recently elected as a director to the board of the corporation. Howie returned recently from a. trip around the world. 
• JOHN BERSCHEIO wrote from Birmingham that he had Wsited DR. DICK WEHS, who was recovcrins from a very serious operation. Dick has been a member of the stafT of the Birmingham VA hospital. JOHN BERSCHEID is with U.S. Steel Corporation in the accounting department at the Fairfield Tin ^{ill Works. John is married and has a son at Livingston State College. John reports that BILL ARMIN, who lives in Home­woodf ^Mabama, was on an assignment in Iowa with the U.S. Army Audit Agency. 
I %vas pleased to hear from DR. WILLIAM A. McGUIRE, a physician in pm'atc practice in St. Louis, Missouri. Bill has sbc children, ages 10 to 24, including twins. Bill mentioned several fellows who were with us in prc-mcd or prc-dentistr>*. WARREN ELLIOT practiced dentistry in South Bend before his death in the 1930's. Bill inquired about CLINTON J. L^VUER, who now lives in 
A Flinty ^fichigan, and is with the State Liquor Control Office, and RONALD J. McN.\.\L\R.\, who received Iiis BS and MD from St. Louis University and was practicing in Charlcstown, West Virginia-
J. ROSS HARRINGTON wrote from Richmond, Indiana, where he practices law, that he was very surprised to turn on T\'' and sec mc being inter­\-icwcd after a speech in Cincinnati. Ross has two sons, one of whom is at the University of \'ir­ginia-I was ver>' sorr>* to Iicar of Uic sudden death recently of the mother of Ross. 
ERNEST (DUTCH) REIDER is superintendent of the River Rouge Power Plant of the Detroit Edison Company in Detroit. He has one son at the University of \1rginia Law Scliool and an­other at Harvard College. 
VIC FISCHER is an engineer ivith the Ne\v York State Department of Public Works in Babylon, ^k New York. Vic is a \t'idowcr and has two boys 
at home with him. 
ART DENCHFIELD is in the real estate busi­ness at Coral Gables, Florida. He has four sons, ages 12 to 19. 
CHARLEY DUCEY is Director of the Service Program Department of the Supreme Council of the Knights of Columbus in N«v Haven, Conn. 
BOB FOGERTY, who is Director of the Divi­sion of Social Sciences at tlic College of St. Thomas in St. Paul, reports that he, TOM TR.\UGHBER and TO.M MAHON all have sons at St. Thomas Military* Academy. TO.M TRAUGH­BER has returned to St. Paul. 
ADRL-VN LOPEZ is publisher-editor with the Volilant Publishing Corporation in New York City. Adrian has two bo>'5, ages 13 and 16. 
MIKE McGEOGHEGAN is Deputy Commissioner of the Public Debt, U. S. Treasury* Department, 
• Washington, D.C. Slikc has four grown children and six grandchildren. 
JOE ANGELINO is ^^-ith the Internal Revenue Office in Buffalo, New York. He has three children. 
F. X. JIM O'BRIEN sent mc clippings from the Miami News regarding GEORGE COURY. TTic January* 27 issue carried a picture of George and a storx' about a multi-million dollar real estate transaction in which he participated. TIic January* 4 issue mentioned that George was being considered for appointment as American Am­bassador to Lebanon. F. X. JIM O'BRIEN is resident manager in the Walston & Company office in Miami. 
I talked to JOE MORRISSEY when I spoke in Cincinnati recently. Joe was ver>* pleased at the outcome of the presidential election and had sent mc a picture of hts family in front of a Ken­nedy-Johnson sign. I was sorry to hear of the 
V death of Joe's brotlier. Rev. John P. ^^orrissey, O.P., in Jersey* Cily. Incidentally, Joe is no longer with the King ^lanufacturing Company in Cin­cinnati. 
I appreciate the many letters and notes of thanks received from classmates regarding the *'In Mc­mortam" card and the roster, of classmates which were sent to you in January. Lei mc know if you did not receive this mailing. Wc are very grate­ful to the Alumni Office for taking care of the mailing and to MIKE RICKS for picking up the printing bill for the cards. 
Congratulations to JOE LANGTON for receiv­ing the Notre Dame "Man of the Year Award" in Pcoria, Illinois. 
LARRY WINGERTER reports iliat he had a nice \-isit with RALPH GARZA in Saltillo, Mexico. Ralph has three children. He has many business interests and is a director of the Bank of Com­
0mcrcc at Saltillo. LARRY WINGERTER is Presi­dent of the Red Arrow Freight Lines, Inc., in San Antonio, Texas; Chairman of the Board, Studer's Photos, Inc.; Vice President, Southwest General Insurance Company; and Director of San Antonio Corporation. Larry has four children the oldest a freshman at Stanford. 
BILL KIRWAN visited the Buckleys on his way to Europe in April. FATHER MARK FITZ­GERALD also \'isited us at Easter time. 
Articles on "Discriminatory Aspects of the Labor Market of the 60's" by your Class Secretary appeared in the March and April 1961 bsues of **Interracial Review.*' 
May I remind you when ordering your football tickets to plan on attending the Northwestern Game on October 28 and the '28 cocktail party at O'Shaughnessy Hall at Notre Dame after the game. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Class prayers are requested for SISTER MARY AQUINAS FLOOD, Ursuline nun who received her doctorate in cliemistr\- with the Class under the direction of FATHER NIEU\\T^\ND. Sister Aquinas died in Zancsville, O., after a stroke on Feb. 18. 
1929 
Larry Stauder Engineering BIdg. Notre Dame, Indiana 

\Vc note that .MARK KIRCHNER, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, has been honored by the Institute of Radio Engineers. He has been ad­vanced to Senior Member grade because of meritorious professional work. 
We have word from TOM LEE, formerly of Manila, Philippine Islands, now residing at 10506 Glenhaven Drive, Silver Spring, Maryland. His letter to JIM ARMSTRONG follows: 
"As one of the lost sheep of the Class of '29, I would like to apologize for the long silence and to ask that I be placed on all the N.D. mailing lists. Perhaps some of our mutual friends will find time to write. I am anxious to know what has happened to PETE SOMERVILLE, FRED WAGNER, LEE SaVNLON, FRr\NCIS JONES, 
THREE NOTRE DAMERS present for awarding of the 1961 Magnificat Medal of Mundelein College, Chicago, to Mrs. George Vergara of the College of New Rochelle, N. Y., are: (I. to r.) Rev. Louis 
J. Thornton, C.S.C., '29, Notre Damc*s di­rector of placement; George Vergara, '25, husband of the recipient and Irish foot­baller of the Four Horsemen years; and Bert Metzger, '31, member of Mundelein's President*s Council and "watch charm" guard on the last Rockne team. 
the DICK brothers, KARL AIARTERSTECK, FRANK HEUPEL, CLARENCE JANS and a great many more I knew. 
"Not too much has happened to me, but here is a rundown. In 1929 I worked for several years as an industrial sales engineer for a public utility. I then returned to Law School at Ohio State and was admitted to the Ohio Bar In 1934. I practiced in Canton until World War II began; then I en­tered Veterans Administration, and in May, 1&46, transferred to the VA Office at Manila, Philippines, where I ended up as Assistant Chief Attorney. In 1958 I was returned to Washington, D.C, In my present job on the Guardianship Service Staff, Central Office. 
"As you know. Government service Is pretty much routine, but I u'as lucky in a lot of ways. During my Philippine service, I met and became a close friend of Ramon Magsaysay and knew a great number of his supporters. Also, I was able to see a new democracy get started, so it was quite interesting." 
Tom, please phone BOB W1LLIA.MS, 201—SBth Street, N.W., Washington, or GAYLORD HA.-\S, Arlington, Virginia, and accompany them to the post-Oklahoma football game get-together at Notre Dame. You %vill see FRED WAGNER, FRANCIS JONES, FRANK HEUPEL, and about twenty others who arc regulars at this event. 
We regret that we have news of the death of \\*ALTER T. DeBAENE, '31, to relay to you. He died January 31, 1361. Your secretary sends ED DeBAENE, '29, brother of Walter, his personal sympathy as well as that of the Class of *29. The new generation of DeBaenes at Notre Dame In­cludes WALTER, JR., '57, and Ed*s son, TED, who has just received his B.S.C.E. 
EDWARD BARCH and family recently moved from Akron, Ohio, to 1806 Walnut Blvd., Ash­tabula, Ohio. 
Another change of address Is that of DR. JOSEPH PATRICK SULLIVAN from Nicaragua to Bethesda East, Apartments, 4405 East West Highway, Bethesda, Maryland. 
JAMES RiVGEN's new address Is Penn Grove Hotel, Grove City, Pennsylvania. 
JACK CANNON, '30, was prlndpal speaker at the recent 29th annual Rockne Communion Breakfast on the campus. Over a hundred attended, including JOHN CUSH.MAN, FRANCIS JONES, and your secretary. Thb was my 23rd such func­tion and each seems better than the others. THO.\L\S HICKEY, SR., has attended aU twenty-nine and FR^VNK MILES Is only one behind. Although most of you are unable to attend this annual Communion Breakfast, which serves to rc­nmv Incidents in Rockne's life, you can relive Rockne's days at Notre Dame by reading FRANCIS WALLACE'S "Knutc Rockne." We, as students, heard many rumors of Rockne. FRANK WAL­L:\CE had the good fortune of being on the scene of many events and relates them In a most interesting manner. 
FATHER CHARLES DORE.MUS, C.S.C., looked his usual self taking part in Holy Week cere­monies In Sacred Heart Church, as did FATHER PETER HEBERT, C.S.C., FATHER LEO R. WARD, C.S.C., FATHER HENRY GLUECKERT, C.S.C., and FATHER F. GASSENS.MITH, C.S.C. 
Rosemary, daughter of the FRANK ME­TR.VILERS, of Fort Wayne, Is editor of the award %vinnlng Shamrock, Central Catholic High School publication. The Shamrock was recently cited as among the Hve top high school papers in Indiana. Her older sister attends St. MaryV of-t he-Woods. 
f\mong the Club Presidents, the Class of '29 is ably represented by WILLIA.M DONELAN, JR., Colorado Springs; JIM BRADY of Idaho Falls; and GEORGE SCHMIDT of Fox Valley, Illinois. 
The REV. JOSEPH N. GARVIN, C.S.C., As­sociate Professor of Latin, and assistant director of the Medlc\'al Institute,' Is a contributor to the 1961 edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica. He Is author of four articles: Saint Colette; Saint Hubert; Saint Remi; and Turpln. Tlie 1961 edition represents the most extensive rc%*ision of the 24­volumc set in a generation. 
From the Alumni Office: 
^Vs president of the Notre Dame Faculty Club, your secretary LARRY STAUDER presided at the President's Dinner for the Faculty In May. Larry's term has been distinguished by the publication of an unprecedented illustrated directory of the ad­ministration, faculty and stafT at N.D. 
Notre Dame AlumnuSi June, 1961 33 
1930 
Devcrc Plunkctt O'Shaughncssy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 

STEPHEN J. GREEN has moved from 160 North LaSallc Street to 69 AVcst \Vashington Street, Room 420, Chicago 2, Illinois. Says Steve: "Some months ago I left the Illinois Public Aid Commission after many years of scr%'icc to ac­cept a position with RAY HILLIARD of the Class of '29, as director of training for the Cook County Department of Public Aid." 
Your Secretary narro%vly missed an interview with Steve, who wrote, " I had an opportunity re­cently to speak before the Sociology' Club on campus, but it was a one-night stand and I did not have a chance to renew campus contacts." Next time we hope he sclicdulcs his lecture near a week end to permit a long reunion. 
Prof. RICHARD T. SULLIVAN took a breather from hb stories, scripts, and classes to be a par­ticipant in a s>'mposium on '*TIie Needs and Images of Man" at Loyola University in Marcli, co-sponsored by the univcniiy and the Antj-Dcfamation League of B'nai B'rith. Dick sliarcd the rostnmi with sucli public figures, social scholars and literary lights as Pittsburgh's Bishop Wright, Harvard's Oscar Handlin, Senator Eugene Mc­Carthy, Nathan Glazer, Philip Scliarpcr, Alfred Kazin, Philip Roth, etc Witnesses say it was a fine, strong discussion of tlic place of Catholics and Jews in American life and letters. 
Tlie St. Joseph Valley N.D. Club sent belated >vord of the death of CHARLES E. De>VnT, Granger, Ind., back on Nov. 26, 1960. Both Class and Club assure Mrs. DcWitt of their prayers for her husband. 
1931 
James T. Doyle 902 Oakton Street Evanston, Illinois 
REUNION RIME 

What '31 seers can predict ^vithout fears There'll be chances to gather for 30 more years? If you haven't begim to make plans, get it 
done For June 9-10-11 in Sweet Sixty-One! 
As time marclies on each ALUMNUS dead­line comes at an ever faster pace. Witli the 30­ycar Reunion coming up in 60 (at this writing) days we should all have our plans made to attend and make it a most successful afTair. Ever>'one who attended in 1956 will surely tr^* to return and those of you xvho missed that one should be on hand for June 9th through llth, 1961. 
Some letters and phone calls have been re­ceived indicating plans to return. BEN 0.'\KS writes that he and his three children have con­firmed reservations at the Morris Inn as did tlie DAN HALPINS. Among others arc JIM and Marie MCQUAI D who seem never to miss a reunion. GEORGE COSTELLO has phoned and indicated that he and MAURICE GOODEVE will be there also. He isn't sure about LOUIS GODOY being able to make it irith the present Cuban situation. One I would like to see on liand would be AL­BERT COWLES. FRED SWTNT and his family are planning on a trip to Chicago before spend­ing the reunion weekend on the campus. 
Word has been received from the Alumni Office of the death of our classmate, \VALTER T. Dc-BAENE of Rochester, Michigan, on January 31st. Walter had a brother EDMOND &, '29 and a son, WALTER, JR., *57. A Mass for the repose of his 
34 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June, 1962 
DR. ABRAHAM O. ZOSS, '38 For Photocopy Veep, a Third Degree 

Photck, Inc., of Kingston, R.I., newly formed Textron subsidiary in the photo­copying materials and equipment field, has appointed a thrcc-dcgrce Notre Damer, Dr. 
A. O. Zoss, as vice-president for manufac­turing and research, in charge of the new company's research, development and man­ufacturing functions. 
Before joining Photck in December, Abe had been with Minnesota Mining & Manu­facting Co., St. Paul, Minn., as production manager for the chemical division since 1958; manager of Manufacturing Adminis­sion; 1941-1957, with General Aniline & tration of that company's chemical diW-Film Corporation's dyestuff and chemical division in \'arious research and manage­ment capacities from pilot plant chemist and chemical engineer in 1941 to manager of the Linden, N.J., plant in 1955. 
A native of South Bend like his \vife Bette, he received his B.S. in chemical en­gineering in 1938, his M.S. in 1939, and his Ph.D. in -941. He is a member of the American Chemical Society, the Chemists' Club of New York, and the American In­stitute of Chemical Engineers; alHliated with the American Section of the Society of the Chemical Industry (London); fellow of the American Association for the Ad\*ancement of Science; and has participated in meet­ings of the American Management Asso­ciation as a seminar leader. His Government service included action as a member of a joint U.S. Government-Industry intelligence mission to Europe in 1946. Abe is credited with thirty-four patents and publications in the \'inyl polymers, high-pressure acetylene chemistry, and plant management. 
soul and a note expressing the sympathy of the class has been sent to his family. Walter was a . close friend of mine as we were both in Com-W merce and lived a few years in the same halls. I remember one Thanksgixing night in ^forrissey Hall when CLARK BENKENDORF and I helped Walter dissect a stuffed chicken or duck his mother had sent for Thanksgiving. With the next day a Friday and no refrigerator we could not risk its spoiling before Saturday. 
BUD GIES received his "Year End" ALUMNUS and sent me a note to bring us up to date on ED FLY^IN who returned to the States and settled in Los Angeles for a short period. Ed returned to New York, and his address is Little Neck Road, 
R.F.D. 5, Huntington, New York. Bud is trying to get a promise from ED SHEERAN to return xvith him for the THIRTIETH. JOE DUNNE keeps alive at Christmas time and may show up also. Bud says he is still using the Victor adding machine donated by BILL LEAHY­
FRANK HOLLAND keeps me up to date on V RED O'CONNELL and also on BUD GROVES, '32, who spent the afternoon with him recently. Bud is as trim as ever, but slightly lighter in color up above. He recently received his 20-year service pin from the F. B. I. and is presently Iiv*ing in Seattle, Washington. 
Seen at tlic recent AVomcn's Auxiliary of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago Scholarship Benefit party at McCormick place were the follou*ing '31crs: GIL SEAMAN, AL STEP.AN, R.\Y COL­LINS, BILL LEAHY, DON O'TOOLE, BOB RUPPE and JIM DOYLE. My apologies to any others of our class I could not see because of the crowd. Al and Don, of Glee Club fame, did an excellent job as part of an impromptu quartet. Tliis is to become an annual affair and I hope that next year we can write about more '31 men being present. 
Our big class event this year is our THIRTIETH W REUNION. Be there and enjoy another chance to \*isit with your classmates. 
From the Alumni Office: 
After deadline JLM DOYLE learned of the April death of another classmate and fellow Chicagoan, STANLEY THOMAS NOWOTARSKI, once an attorney in the Loop and since World War II a member of the legal staff of the Veterans Ad­ministration and the U.S. Army Signal Corps. Condolences of the Class go to his widow Irene. Sympatliy also to REV. THOMAS P. JONES of Fischer Hall on the loss of Fr. Jones' father, THOMAS J. JONES, '04. 
EDWARD R. BRENNAN, co-founder of the event, was again one of the head leprechauns at the second annual St. Patrick's Day obsen.-ancc of^ the Friendly Sons of Erin in Garj-, Indiana. EdV was a charter member of a committee that wit­nessed the first arri\-al of the Little People in 1957, with such shenanigans as a green stripe painted dou*n Broadway, shamrocks on tlic side­walks, green flags flying from flagpoles, and Irish toppers on the statuary-. For the 1961 Shamrock A^^'ards program Ed supplied most of the pictures and comments, plus a story on the annual ex­ploits of one Scumas Beg. 
JOHN McINTYRE, Wce-p resident of Sibley Macliinc & Foundry Corp. in South Bend, has also been president of the Gray Iron Founders Society since the annual meeting last fall in Cin­cinnati, O. 
1932 •) 
James K. Collins 3336 Kenmore Road Shaker Heights, Ohio 

SAL BONTEMPO was chosen by New Jersey's Democratic gubernatorial candidate Richard Hughes to be campaign manager for a tough race against Republican James Mitchell for the job Robert MejTier \-acates next year. Sal will continue to scr\'e as New Jersey Conser\-ation Commissioner. 
A beautiful brochure prepared by GILBERT P. AUGUSTINE marked the tenth anniversary of the Human Relations Commission of Perth Amboy, 
N.J. Gil has ser\'ed the Commission since its establishment in 1951, first as cliainnan and since 1959 as executive director. The memorial booklet tells a warm story of cooperation and brotheriiood in action. 
FRANCIS M. MARLEY, a lawyer in FostoriaAt O., is one of four consecutive N.D. men who ha^-e ser\-cd as president of the local Holy Name 
^ !S 

^ >.• ^^'?^ 
BUFFALO ^It was another full house for 
Society (the four arc pictured in tliis issue) and is now Tiffin Deanery chairman of the Apostolatc to the Spanish Speaking. Says Frank: "Although wc do not have a local N.D. Club, we have 15 or 20 N.D. men in town and they arc all active in religious and civil matters. Most of us belong to the Toledo Notre Dame Club, but it cer­tainly would be more convenient to have a local club, and perhaps at some time in the future we can have one. We are acquiring more alumni all the time and at the present we have three stu­dents at N.D. including my son, Francis M. Marley, Jr." We'll look for the Marlcys to lead in the establishment of an alumni club in Fostoria. 
D\ N HILGARTNER, 'l/ , sent in the obituary-of FREDERICK EMMETT (TED) O\R.M0DY for^varded to him by brother ART aXRMODY. Ted, an engineer in Galveston, Texas, died March 
1. "His death was unexpected, according to Art; he was due to be released from the hospital when he had a heart attack. As Art said, 'God's ways are not our ways,* and he is now the oldest of four brothers who graduated from Notre Dame, I believe, and . . . two sisters who graduated from St. Mary's." Condolences to Ted's widow, son, and daughter. 
1933 
Joseph A. McCabe 2215 Lincoln Evanston, Illinois 

In the words of the popular song "It's a long, long lime from May to December," and^ it seems even longer in the 27-odd year span since we took our sheepskins. And come to think of it some of ihem have been pretty odd years, too! 
However, the important date to keep in mind is the big 30 coming up in 1963. Those of us who attended the 25th Reunion have often recalled it with fond memories. I am sure we arc all intent on making the 30th even better. 
To do this, even a greater percentage of class­mates will have to make every effort to get back for the big get-together. 
In the meantime, one of the best ways to work up enthusiasm for the Great Return among the more laggard members is to start thinking, talk­ing, writing about the reunion. 
Make it a point today to call or write or drop in on some classmate in your vicinity and start talking up the 1963 date. 
And then the big thing is to forward a note with ne\rt you get — or even if there isn't any news — to me at the above address so I can put it in the next column! Even if you only send a card with vour name on it — send it in! 
President JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSY and Yours Sincerely have been in discussion about what we can do to build enthusiasm and if all goes well you will hear from us in the not too distant future. 
As you will read elsewhere in this edition of the ALUMNUS, the Chicago Club had one of its best parties in years on St. Patrick's Day night. It would be pointless to try to name c\cr>-onc seen there, but regardless of Class, a large topic among those present was this coming June and other Jtmes ahead which will mean retmion to the 
 the Buffalo Club's Annual Week End Closed Retreat in late March at St. Orfamban's Re­
treat House, Derby, New York. 

\'arious classes. So let's get '33 on the reunion wagon — ever>'one do his part to beat the drum! 
In order to see what could be done via the Alexander Bell I phoned a number of classmates in the area for any ncu-s they might have and to remind them about the reunion. I talked to the prexy, John O'S, who will work up some news for the next installment, but had nothing timely for this column. 
ED COGLEY says things arc fine with him, but he hasn't seen any classmates to pass any news along about. Others called who were cither out of town or away from their offices are: DICK BURKE, PAT CROWLEY, JOHN COL­LINS, FRED BECKLENBERG, JERRY MES­SERVEY and FRANK MATA\'OSKEY. 
Just as I was writing this, JOHN COLLINS (that is, the Chicago John Collins) called back. Things are fine with the Collinses, and he had news that ED GLEr\SON has been named body­guard to new States Attorney Dan Ward. John also informed me that DICK HOSTENEY has returned to Chicago with his nine children. I phoned Dick at the FBI and he confirmed the news, reciting as his past stations a list that sounds like a map of the U.S.: Milwaukee, Springfield, III., Butte, and Norfolk, Va. Dick now lives in LaGrangc, outside Chicago and hopes to settle down in a big rut there. 
Don't forget now, let's keep the big 30 in mind! 
From the Alumni Office: i\s executive director of St. Louis' Housing and Land Clearance Authorities (sec "Spotlight .-Mum­nus," December, 1959) CH.\RLES FARRIS' Plaza and other multimillion-dollar clearance and housing projects were the object of much political, pro­fessional, and journalistic- sniping, especially when municipal elections rolled around. But the re­election of ^fayor Raymond R. Tucker by a whopping majority A\-as a great vote of confidence in Charlie's program and the future of St. Louis. Charlie laid his critics low with a detailed de­fense of his program entitled ""The St. Louis Story .. . or Tlie Blues Have a Silver Lining," from which the .-VLUMNUS might quote sometime with permission. Law (J.D.) graduate JOHN M. CRLNLMINS has been appointed \icc-president and general counsel of Koppers Co., Inc., of Pittsburgh. He'll also ser\"e as Koppers' sccretar>- and manager of the legal department. John came to Koppers in 1942 after government scr\icc with RFC and the Defense Plant Corporation. He had been assistant chief counsel and assistant law department manager since 1950. 
1934 
T. Edward Carey 223 Ehnwood Rd. Rocky River 16, Ohio 

From the Alumni Office: 
Operating out of Chicago's I,(XX)-room Acres Motel, 5600 N. Lincoln Ave., LARRY LICALZI liandles sales for the Aristocrat Inns of America, a fast-growing organization ^vith five huge motor hotels in the Chicagoland area already. More about Larr)' later. 
March found JOHN F. CARR named assistant 
controller of the AC Spark Plug dmuon of 
General Motors Corp. in Milwaukee. Director of 
contracts for AC before that, John is a transplant 
from Indianapolis. 
The Class lost a fiistinguished honorary alumnus with the death of Most Rev. JOHN M. Mc-NAMARA, auxiliary bishop of Baltimore-Wash­ington. Bishop McNamara's death last November wasn't remarked by the Alumni Office files until late in March. 
1935 
Franklyn Hochreiter 
702 Scarlet Dr. 
Towson 4, Maryland 
From the Alumni OfGce: Tlie Chicago ^(unicipaI Court's Driver Improve­ment School, still under the direction of publisher-publicist ART CONILADj uses a low pressure "Did You Know" technique to overcome the antagonism of traffic Wolators sentenced to at­tend. Anger over the implied stigma is soon dissipated by such dences as a test in which the students grade themselves, according to a recent Chicago Trib story which quotes Art: "If they get some answers wrong, no one sees it and they indict themselves for their o\vn ignorance." The free eight-session course, taught by police volun­teers, has graduated 60,000 dri^'ers, only one per cent of \vhom ever show up in traffic court again. Teaching in Spanish, Polish, German, and Russian, as well as English (' 'a car can kill In any language"), the school has been called "best of its kind in the United States" by the American Bar .-\ssn. The story was called to our attention by Secretary JIM SANFORD of 1915. 
^Vc're Indebted to another newspaper, the New York Herald Tribune, and 1928 Secretary LOU BUCKLEY for a report on erst^vhllc classmate JAMES REILLY of 1869 Himrod, Ridgewood, Queens, a job analyst In the personnel depart­ment of the U. S. Customs Bureau. Jim and his 18-year-old son Jim, Jr., are both attending Ford­ham and should graduate together In 1963. Jim a taking night courses to earn the degree he missed at N.D. during the depression, and the son is a freshman taking the regular four-year crourse, soon to be followed by a second son, MichaeL Mrs. Reilly, who helps husband and son with their homework, threatens to matriculate herself. 
Some may not have read that FATHER JOHN 
H. MURPHY, C.S.C, became provincial sccretary and a member of the Provincial Cotmdl of the Holy Cross Fathers, a position held by the late FATHER KERNDT HEALY. Since his seven yean as an N.D. vice-president. Father Murphy has been associated with the Catholic Boy, Family Theater, and most recently South Bend's St. Joseph Hospital as ch^laln. 
Time Magazine recently ran a story mi another erstwhile classmate, Ohioan CHARLES DED-
Notre Dame Alumnus^ June, 1962 35 
;; ERICH, who founded "Sj'nanon House" In Santa ,' Monica, Calif., a hostelry for narcotic addicts 
tr\^n5 to reform. Xex'cr an addict himself, Charlie 'I uses the Alcoholics . Anon>'mous technique with \ \ results that have won the praise of California \\ social workers. His work wns first reported by ij Baltimore Sun editor H.AL WILLIAMS, '38, a 
• couple of years ago when the *'Synanon" ("Sin­ners Anonymous'') movement was still a pre­' carious experiment. 
Finally, Sccretar>- FRANK HOCHREITER, has been treading the boards again — this time in a murder m>-stcr>" with Baltimore's Vagabond Players. Quoth a reviewer in a local saloon Journal: *'Frank­l>ii Hochrcitcr, an experienced member of tlic Vagabonds, is perfect as Dr. Alec Barnes and adding to his laurels, he directed the produc­tion. . . . Every member of the cast assembled by Mr. Hochrcitcr is deserving of applause." 
1936 
Robert F. Er\'in 1329 Kensington Rd. Grosse Pointe Park, Michiimn 
REUNION RBIE As our Jubilee nears, some silver appears In our hair to remind us that 25 years Their gamut have run. Let's be second to 
none On June 9-10-11 in Sweet SLxt>-One! 

As I write this in March, our Reunion is little more than two months away. Our local committee in South Bend is doing a fine job of preparing a grand weekend together. Personally, I look for^\*ard to our get-together witli great anticipation. It will be wonderful to sec all of you and rev-isit the scenes of our undergraduate years. ^Ve'rc sure to have a big turnout, and if you miss our 25th, you will have missed a lot. 
DAN O'BRIEN of Northeast, Pennsylvania, writes as follmvs: **Your consistent appeals for 'voices from the wilderness' have finally broken me down. Admittedly, I am tlie world's worst — and most penitent — correspondent, but surpris­ingly have kept Avell abreast of the activities of our class of 1936. Most of my intelligences, in addition to your own good reports, result from occasional conversations with ART CRONIX and VONNIE BAUR. At infrequent inter\-als I see FRAN JOYCE, 'who has a chemical business in Toledo, Ohio, and have had lundi a couple of times with BILL BAYER in Oil Cit>-, Pa. Last summer, I spent a pleasant hour with HERM GREEN in New Castle, Pa., and am delighted to report that Hcrm is the same delightful person he always was, and the passing years have had no ill effects on his golf game. My wife Jane and I met MIKE O'CONNOR and his charming frau in one of Clex'cland's Chinatou*n restaurants last fall and Mike looked fit enough to play four quarters of fast basketball. As a matter of fact, all the indiWduals I have mentioned looked emi­nently successful and all apparently have received their fair quota of tender loving care. For my own part the evenings at the Grotto have been most rewarding, and I am blessed witli a won­derful 'wife and five cliildren. Since the war, during ivhtcli I spent five years in the Na\y, mostly on a destroyer, I have been in Northeast, 
Pa. (name of town], population 5294, sixteen miles cast of Erie, in the precast concrete products business. Said endeavor is still extant, but since 1956 I have become increasingly involved with General .Welding & Fabricating Co., Erie, Pa. This company manufactures baked enamel and does complicated fabrication on a job-shop basis. We are proud of the fact that all of the atomic submarines carrj' some of our wcldments. AVith respect to General-Erie we arc Iia\-ing to step up the tempo of our marketing program, and to this end I am interested in contacting Notre Dame men who are acting as manufacturers* repre­sentatives an>-whcrc in the country, except the Southeast. Your comments on the quickest method of accomplishing this end will be appreciated. If the good Lord permits me to sun*ive, I plan to at­
36 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 
tend our 25lli Reunion. Prior lo t'nl time I know I will have to be in Detroit, and it will please mc if I can get you and ART CRONIN and LEE MOORMAN to have lunch or dinner with me. You arc now the recipient of tlie longest personal note I have written since the war." 
LARRY PALKOVIC is doing a yeoman job lining up Reunion attenders in his area. Already he reports that ALAN DONOVAN, BILL SAFFA, JIM PAGLIASOTTI and SAL CO.MMISA uill be there. He's also contacting NICK TANCREDI and HAROLD H.AUSER. Larr>- also reports that ANDY HUFNAGLE is now manager of the Social Security Ageno* in Glovcrsville, New York. 
That's about all the news I have but I'm sure that the Alumni Office and the local committee will wish to add more up-to-date news to this column just before press time. 
And so, fellows, this is my last column. During these five years it has been my goal to try, along with JIM SHERRY, to tie our class together a little better, but I'm not sure that we succeeded. At any rate, we tried and it was fun. Tlic next secretary* will have some new ideas and I beg you to write to him now and then. We all enjoy read­ing news of our classmates but this is impossible unless eacli of us keeps him informed. And, in closing .. . a personal note to B.AYER, BRAY, C/\SPER and DOYLE . . . don't you dare miss the Reunion. 
So long, good luck, and sec you all, I hope, June 9, 10 and 11. 
From the Alumni Office: Tlie Alumni Office and the Iof=il committee will have sent out a couple of mailings by the time this is sent, so the Class kno%vs the names of well over 100 members who were quick to express their intention of returning. TIic mailings do not, how­ever, list the names of those who arc not return­ing, some of them with strongly expressed regrets. Nearly all give distance or business commitments as a reason, and it's interesting that none of the thirty-some negatives live within a radius of a couple hundred miles (closest are in 'Wisconsin). Regrets came principallv from the three coasts, plus Uganda (BROTHER CHRISTIAN STINETTE, C.S.C.) and Rome (BROTHER THEOPH.\NE SCHMITT, C.S.C.), but the farthest away was JOE McGRATH, whose cards from Saigon, Viet-Nam, and Karachi, Pakistan, asking to be re­membered will be on display at the Reunion. 
1937 
Joseph P. Quinn P.O. Box 275 Lake Lcnape Andover, New Jersey 

From my last appeal, we are slov*'Iy adding a few names to the reporting list. For the first time 
THOMAS M. TIERNEY, '40, (right) ex­ecutive vice-president-director of Blue Cross-Blue Shield, accepts the fifth Man­of-the-Year a%vard in the 22-year history of the Denver N.D. Club from Gerard Smith, '27, (left) Club \icc-president, and James Armstrong, '25, executive secretary of the Alumni Assn., for humanitarian scrv­
ue have neu^ from CHARLES (CHUCK) HOFF-AfAN, a U.S. probation and parole officer working out of Tucson, Ariz, and covering about 2,000 A miles per month super\'ising probationers and pa­rolees. Included in this wonderful territory are the San Carlos and Ft. Apache Indian Reser\*ations (no Lenapcs). When we say this wc are talking about V/z million acres of Apache reser\*ation alone. "Chuck" is married and has a boy and girl; he's a member of the N.D. Club in Tucson, and the only other '37 member he knows there is TIM KING who works for the Tucson Title Insurance Co. "Chuck" should be good reporting material as he also worked for the Tucson Daily Citizen for 8 years. To round out an active life he also tcaclies part time at the Univ. of Arizona. Thanks "Chuck" for your "first" report to the column. (Tliere arc many other firsts that could come through.) Mid-West V. Pres. "BUCKY" JORDAN reports from the Windy City, ria the Chicago Tribune, National Adv. Dept., with Kay and 5 little Jordans. He has cliecked In with some of . the lads on football weekends and states we have % *'largc boj-s" lined up for next fall. "Bucky" re­calls his teammate Levicki throwing the javcHn on the track team, and through an error thought he had broken the world's record at Carticr Field. Another teammate of John's dropped us a note, the coach of Asbur>- Park, N.J., high school, "BUTCH" BRUNO, who, besides being a very successful coach in N^.J. (lost only one last fall), also instructs in American histor\' and sociolog>'. "Butch" has a house full of 3 bo>-s and 2 gals. As time rolls on the former All-Stater has added diabetes to the battle of the bulge and the vanish­ing hairline. At the Coaches Convention in Atlantic Citv he saw two others, BABE MARSHALL and VIC WOJCIHOVSKI. Wc finally heard from the F.B.I., LARRY DANBOM, who also reported that he sees DON HANNING and CLEM Mc-GOWAN once in a while and both reported well at tliis time. I have referred him to his old roomie, A" JOE VALENTINE SCHILLING, who is turning out to be a real good correspondent. 
The Secretary* had a card from JOE DRUECKER from London, on his way to Lourdcs and Rome, making the pilgrimage for a special intention. "Joe" has been to Mayo's seven times since last fall, so add your prayers to his intentions. The old "Kokomo" flash has a real battle on his hands. 
From Cincy, WALT NIENABER, comes through about JERRY GOHMAN adding a son to the family circle after many years, but the>* have a long way to catch up with BOB BURKE and wife, who have 8. Bob has a live stock business and a neon sign after-dinner spot going to take care of the food bills. BERT SCHLOEMER, advertising business, is also the local club president this year, has a real hot baseball player in the family who's headed our M-ay. Of course I had to wade through M the merits of Ohio basketball with Univ. of Cinc>' and O.S.U. School supply man JOE ZWERS called Walt one day when in the city. Walt has a daughter lined up for Marquette in the fall, a son Jay in high school and Sue in grade school. Walt and the Sec>' are well blessed in that both our parents have celebrated their 50th anniversaries and both arc well at this time. "ZEKE" CACKLEY and the Seo". met FR. NED JOYCE at UND Night in N.J., representing the U. His time was cut short thanks lo FRANK WALLACE, and Fr. Ned finally had his chance to speak at 
12:15 a.ra. By the time tliis farmer got back out to the acreage it was time to help with the cows. Fr. Ned also presented the N.J. Man of the Year award. JERRY CLAEYS and Fr. Ned celebrate their birthday's together at the Clacys house and usually dicck in with the Scc>-. on a "collect" basis. However this year my phone bill won't be ^ so great. Fr. Ned docs a great deal of traveling " for the U., looks well and has developed the ban­quet girth. . . . 
In checking up on our "firsts" wc heard from the family of FRANK EGAN, who passed away in Feb. 1960 in the L.A. Veterans Hospital, after four years there, a tumor as a result of navy duty. Please remember Frank in your prayers. We are indebted to his sister for this item. 
Finally the AVcst Vice Prcs., AL SCHWARTZ came through with many items and names. Al is the local club president and had been to the conference at the U. Some correspondence with the Baker Castor Oil Co. was signed by the Wee pres. of the Co., DAN FINN, the old roomie of BOBBY SIEGFRIED. At least it proves Daii can write Al as he will be another "first" when he comes through. A trade publication reported that ROBERT W'ALDECK of L.A. is an Export-­Import specialist, was a member of the Trade Mis-W sion to Africa. .At also met BERT SCHLOE.MER 
at the conference. AI checked up. on GORDON MURPHY \'Ia a mutual friend who reported on 

• the banker from Chc>'ennc. Finally, AI states that PINKY CARROLL has all he can do with the dedication of the neu* hospital coming up at ^lanhattan^ Kans. 
Remember — the 25th will be here in a hurrj" 
— JUNE 1962. We will need lots of news, etc. If you want to check up on anyone prior to this — drop me a note for a follow-up. 
From the Alumni Oflice: 
The student chairman of this year's Bengal Bouts is Dave Cormier of Weslbrook, Maine, who comes by his occupation Iioncstly. His father, LEO "SKIP" CORMIER, was chairman of the Sophomore Cotillion during his years on campus. 
Lou Marrc, of Fort Smith, Arkansas, is in his fourth year as an assistant photographer at the University and he is the son of R/VYMOND A. MARRE. 

9 WILLIAM J. O'SULLIVxVN. JR., Hampton, Va., was selected in March to receive the 1961 Astronautics Engineer Achievement Award for his conception of lightweight inflatable satellites used in studying the characteristics of space and experi­menting with the reflection of radio-tclcx'ision sig­nals around the curvature of the earth. Bill's project u-as the subject of an Alumnus feature 5tor>- in 1958, two years before the appearance of Echo I. A scientist at the Langley Rcsearcli Center of the National Aeronautics and Space Administra­tion, Bill is married to the former ^lyrtis Genevieve Hall. They have five children. 
1938 
Burnic Bauer 
1139 Western Avenue South Bend 25, Ind. 
Local athletic banquet Joke: The Pope came over to visit President Kennedy. One of the first things lie asked JFK was "What arc we going to do with Big K? " "You mean Khnishclicv?'* asked Jack. "No," said the Pope, **I mean Ku­harich." 
Vd tip my hat to the founder of tliis column, Hi\L WILLIAMS who, very deser\'edly, made the 

, Alumnus Spotlight last December (a hard man to focus on considering he's on the Sun — Baltimore, that is), only with my hat off thercM be Just too much glare. So from under my sombrero, a big VIVA la Hal! 
I hate to come to this next item. TIic only letter in 22 years from DICK SaVNNELL, my Morrisscy Sub neighbor and dining hall battcrv' mate, brought the sad news that DR. HUGHIE O'DONNELL died of a heart attack in bed at home in Milford, Connecticut, Saturday, March Ilth. Says Dick: "Ilughie came to Milford about six years ago to establish practice after a dis­tinguished career as a naval surgeon and on the surgical staffs of several New York hospitals. Actually, I've not seen him in those years, al­though I talked to him on the phone. Milford is the town I gre^v up in, only 12 miles east of Fairfield (Dick's address: 159 No. Cedar Rd). In recent years both my mother and father have 

' been patients at the Clifford hospital. Hughie al­ways took the trouble to drop around to speak to them. This must have been characteristic of him because in the few short years he practiced in the town he earned the respect and ad­miration of the whole community." Hughie leaves behind, besides his family (widow Betty, two sons, two daughters), his brother JOHN C. O'DON­NELL, '24, and three ncphcu's, John and James, *51, and Hugh, '57, all of Mansfield, O. Father THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., no relation, said a special Mass for Hughie April 1st. 
Dick did graduate work at Northwestern and worked at Marshall Field after graduation and then did t\\'o years with CIT Corp in N.Y. and New England before answering greetings from you know whom. Dick eventually became personal pilot to Gen. Matt Ridgeway with the 18th air­borne. In 1945 he married Pcgg>* Monsport ' of 

I Fairfield and immediately tested, but good, the marital tie by playing golf with TO.M MULLI­GAN on hone>'moon in Florida. Crisis survived. 
BERKSHIRE COUNTY—At second annual Notre Dame Night in Massachusetts' Berk­shires (I. to r.) Club President James J. 03rien looks on as high school honor senior Dclos AVhitman receives the Father Hesburgh Outstanding Student Award from Dr. Joseph Wilh, awards committee chairman, and Hugh De%'ore, N.D. freshman football coach and principal speaker. 
however, and in next three years, three sons. During Korea Dick was sent to Europe — with­out protest. "In 1950, *53 and '55 the hurricanes carried Long Island Sound thru my house. x\fter the third time I raised it above flood level and last year moved back to the hills," says Dick. Dick was in the car business in White Plains, N.Y., until 1956 when he became a "marketing cxccuti%'c" with McCann-Erickson advertising firm mostly on Chr\-slcr accounts. With Dick at work are Notre Damers PAUL FOLEY, '37, executive Wee president; WALTER JOHNSON, '38. Senior Vice President; PAUL MENNEG, about '41; and FRED CORKLE, about '58. 
Scannell savs in his travels he visits ex-roomie TO.M .MULLIGAN and wife Julie in Cleveland and has had a glass of water with JOHN TAYLOR BOURKE in both N.Y. and Chicago. "Ran into BUD SHERWOOD in Flint, and J. P. GOR.\L\N in Detroit. Occasionally see LEO NORRIS, who IS in my parish, and ride the banknipt New Haven R.R. regularly with BILL MULRENJVN, *37. Spent an evening in New Orleans with JACK BAKER, '37, and wife ^ta^^•. Best regards to CHUCK SWEENEY and ED CRONIN. Tell them I'm asking my kids to make a small contribution from their allowances each week so the old man can make it back to the campus in '63." Ed. note: Smart Planning, Dick, and the rest of you guys. 
.-\nothcr first-time-in-22-vears letter came from JOHNNY BR^VDDOCK, 4617 Chase Avenue, Bclhesda, Mar>land — near Washington D.C. — who borroived my glove one day in the Com­merce building and then went out and starred at 2nd base for J.AKE KLINE for two years. Johnny played ball around Washington D.C, where he Just passed 20 years in personnel work with the Washington Gaslight there, until six years ago when "my eyesight got so bad I figured I'd quali­fy as an umpire . . . and I am now secretary of the Association." Johnny has a boy in college, a girl and boy in high school and a boy starting high school next fall. He says it's hard making monev (outside the mint, that is) in Washington because JLM.MY CORCOR:\N and GEORGE HOWARD are making it all. Johnny wants • to know about "CHUCK" SWEENEY ("Why doesn't he call me when he's in D.C? " Answer from Swede: "It costs a dime"); DON FISHER, CH,\RLEY DUKE, CELLY BALL ("who helped me with accounting home work"), ED CRONIN 
(**we had sucli learned discussions on every sub­ject"), CHUCK BOROWSKI ("who backed me up in center field"), and old Paducah, LOUIS ANDERSON ("never forget our trips down town"). Abo DON HICKEY ("who looks the same as when in sdiool if I saw the right picture recently." Swede sa>-s, "You did.") 
**Swcde, I always remember your tr>*ing to talk me into going to Quantico during the sum­mer to tal:e Marine officer's training. I didn't want any part of the military but I got it later any^vay, as a J.g. in the Navy. Please ask any­one who has time to drop me a line, or if any­one comes to Washington, call me — there's al­wa>-s a few cold ones on ice." (Baseballs, you mean, John?) 
BILL ARMEL, who slept next to me in count­less classes,' broke out his pen on GHdden Co. (paints that paint) stationery to note his move to Milwaukee (address 7218 N. Crossway Rd., Milwaukee 17,) after "only a year in Nashville. Loved it there, but this is larger territory with better potential. So far haven't been able to sell my Nashville home so I'm not sure whether I'm in the paint business or real estate. . . . Got down to all the games last year but towards end suspect it was more to see our daughter. Nan, a sophomore at St. Marv's. . . . Sec JOHN THOM.\S, FILXNK 0'L.\UGHLIN, and ED BRENNiVN regularly in Chicago," Nice letter from a steady friend who only got mad at me once, when I failed to w*ake him up when Prof Roemer called on him in ps>'choIogy class. Bad psychology all the way around. 
TOM SHEILS sent in a note on Sheils and Bruno Associates, Personal Management, stationery saying, "I am now in the high rent dutrict, or more specifically, at 499 North Canon Drive, Beverly Hills, California. My home is still at 17250 Partlienia Street, Northridge, Cal. I am happy to report tliat all arc well at the moment at our house. Wc have five diildren; three boys and two girls." Tom sent copies of letters he wrote to HOOK KERWIN, FRANK ^L\Y and HAL WILLIAMS congratulating them on the recognition they recently received in the Alumnus. If you can't recall what it was, go back and dig up back copies — it's worthwhile research. 
AV.-VLT MON.ACELLI sent a clipping from the Oct. 10th, 1960. issue of Chemical and En­gineering News in which GEORGE SCHLAU­DECKER, founder and president of Maumee Chemical Company was featured in an article outlining the 10-year-old company's recent ac­quisition of a Cincinnati plant in addition to its Toledo, Ohio, one. Sales, according to the article have risen from 520,000 in 1950 to 4 mil­lion in I960. Congratulations, George! 
The 30th annual Rocknc Memorial Mass and Breakfast was held at Notre Dame's Alumni Hall and Morrb Inn was Chaired by CHARLIE CAL­L.\RAN with CHUCK BOROWSKI, CHUCK SWEENEY, BILL GIBBONS, JOE KUH.\RICH and SWEDE BAUER attending with sons. Charlie credits the biggest crowd ever to: 1., expert publicity work by an expert (check); 2., program featuring a big shot — Jack Camion, all-time All-American guard (check, can't get a much bigger shot than a cannon); and 3., classmates who have lots of kids (check). Congrats, Charlie, it was a good job: even your introduction of all 
Notre Dame AlumnuSj June, 1961 37 
\isiting journalists (except this columnist who won't bear a grudge) was short. 
TRA\TLOG: LARRY DILLON, moved from Hudson, Midiigan, witli family of 3 girls and 1 bo>*, to 145 Conrad Court, AMnter Park, Florida, lo enter real estate business, according to JOE DILLON, *44, South Bend businessman. 
TOM MULLEN has moved from Florida to Paoli, Pa., and back to 941 N.E. 90th St., Miami. TOM GREENE was brought back to Peoria, III. from California by the Caterpillar company. JOHN C. CONNOR'S, of the Brookl>Ti Connors, new address is 203 8th St., Brooklyn. RAY RTTCHEY's new address in Gallon, Ohio, is 805 S. Market St. LARRY LARKIN is still in New Jersey but now at 209 Atlantic, Spring Lake. GEORGE FIT2PATRICK, one of the better poltti(£ans at NJD. (wonder how he is doing now that there's room for a big Irishman in Mass.), just moved to 5 Colgate Dr., North .Andovcr, Mass. 
CHET \VILGA's wife now keeps things ship­shape at 12 Admiral Road, Buffalo, N.Y. CL.4RK REYNOLDS, leader of the lo\-al opposition in class politics, has made Broadway, his new ad­dress being 233 Broadway, Nev*- York. PHIL KIRCH moved to 333 Hollow Crab Road, Ra­cine, Wise DICK GERMANN's new Ohio abode is 431 Garfield, Milford. TO.M ^L\HER is now a lawyer with headquarters at 73 Tremont St., Boston. DR. DAN MONAGHAN, stationed at Ft. Ben Harrison in Indianapolis was recently pro­moted to Lt. Colonel. Congratulations, Sir Dan. A reward (special mention by the Swede) Is offered for information leading to the whereabouts of an hombre named CHARLES ED\\'ARD SLYNG­STAD, who eluded the posse at Havre, Montana. 

Congratulations to world traveler J. RUSSELL LONGON, who has been named president and managing director of Chry'slcr International S.j\., according to a press release; also to LEX SKOG­LUND, president of Scully-Jones International S.A. Also a unit citation to papa ROBERT F. HOLTZ. JOHN aACKLEY, '37, reports that Bob (alwa>^ a shrewd businessman) and his wife had their eighth exemption, a daughter, on Dec. 30. It is significant to note that the Holues have caught up with the Jene^'-bound Cackleys. Both couples have four boys and four girls, long-range planning at its best. Bob Is vice-president of Elkhart Brass Mfg. Co. 
1939 
James N. Motschall 
Singer-Motschall Crp. 
10090 West Chicago 
Detroit 4, Michigan 

It was most gratifying to receive as many prompt replies as I did on the 4th questionnaire that was sent to you. I am going to take them in the order that I received tlicm, so be patient if your name docs not appear for the next 4 or 5 issues. Those who have sent the questionnaire to me, a heartfelt tlianks and I appreciate your promptness. To those who have not yet returned them, please try to do so as quickly as possible so that we will have an excellent representation for tlic next year or two. 
REV. ARNOLD A. FELL, C.S.C., is at the Holy Cross Foreign Mission Society in ^Vashington, 
D. C. Father Fell was unable to be at the 20tli reunion but he is hoping and praying to be with us on our 25th reunion. Father Fell would like to hear from any of the class ivho might be engaged in work overseas particularly in countries of Paki­stan, East Africa, Brazil and Chili. Fatlier Arnold manages to get back to tlie Campus a couple of times a year and is ver)* pleased with the Uni­versity student body for tlieir fine support of the missions through the Bengal Bouts and other pro­grams. 
JOHN C. HYNES is an attorney in Muncie, Indiana, where he lives with his wUc Helen, daughter Patricia and son John T. John would like to hear from JOHN MONAHAN and GEORGE MORRIS. He is active in the Notre Dame Club of 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 
FORMER SECRETARY of the Class of '45, Al Lesmez, Garden City, N. Y., shows plaque and monogrammed chair, tokens of classmates* appreciation after ten years serv­ice as Class organizer and scribe. 
Eastern Indiana and was its president during the year 1959-60. 
REV. BENEDICT J. DOBRANCIN, O.S.B., is pastor of St. Cyril Church in East St. Louis, Illinois. Father Benedict would like to hear from AUGIE BOSSU, coadi at Benedictine High School in Cleveland. 
Last week I had a pleasant surprise when my wife and I went to sec "Tlie Sound of Music** here in Detroit. One of the leading players turned out to be JACK COLLINS of our class. He is doing verN' well on Broadway and has developed into a first-class actor. If Jack reads this, perhaps he will send in his questionnaire or drop me a line giring me some infonnation of what has happened to him since graduation. 
JOHN E. WTSSELS owns a button manufactur­ing company in Muscatine, Iowa where he re­sides \vil\\ his wife ^targarct and children, Kath­leen, Tom, Robert and John, Jr. John would like to hear from AL FELTS and also from DIXIE WELSH who lived in Owensboro, Kentucky. John belongs to the Tri-City Notre Dame Club and was looking forward to attending their annual St. Patrick's dance. 
JOSEPH E. BEINOR is tlic Big Bear Super­market manager in Kankakee, Illinois, where he lives with his wife, two sons and twin daughters. Joe was present at our 20th reunion and had an excellent time as did all who attended. He is now making plans to be with us for our 25th re­union and %v-ould like to hear from any of his old classmates. 
FRANK X. TULLEY is buyer for the Ralston Purina Co. His wife and four daughters reside with him in Webster Groves, Mo. Frank is looking forvti-ard to being with us on our 25th reunion. He tried to contact GEORGE WILLIAMS of Mont­real but he was out of town at the time. 
FRANK A. ^L\STRIANA is an attorney in Youngstown, Ohio, where he resides •with his •wife Ilene and children Ronald, Lynne and Ruth. He too is planning to be at our 25th reunion but in the meantime would like to hear from FRED SIMON and JOHN DAVIS. Keep up the good work concerning the Notre Dame drive and I am certain that with your efforts as well as all of ours it u-ill be a complete success. 
JOSEPH P. SULLIVAN, JR., the Big Apple Man from Ayer, Massacliusetts, reports that his wife and 3 diildren are all fine and that he is extremely busy shipping tlie "New England" apples throughout the entire \vorld. 
JOHN J. CAREY is the leading insurance agent in Indianapolis, Indiana. My wife Pat and I sec John and his wife, Pat, almost every fall at his brother's (FATHER CHARLES CAREY] room in Alumni Hall. John was tvith us at the 20tfa re­union and is looking forward to continuing the celebration on the 25th. I hope that we sec each other again this coming fall. 
JOHN J. GRIFFIN, JR., is the president of w his own investment company in St. Louis, ^{o. where he resides with his wife Nanc>% daughters Nancy Marie and Kathleen, sons John J. Ill and Terence Michael, and his fifth child to be bom sometime during July. 
I appreciate your sending your questionnaire in so promptly, John. After you made that snide remark at one of the football games that I saw you at last year, I have to somehow make up for the short notice but I could only do so with in­formation from you and the rest of our classmates. John viss with us on our 20th reunion and is certainly looking forward to our 25th. He ran into PHIL MAHONEY in Washington, D. C , and he sees JIM McGOLDRICK and JIM WALSH, the latter of whom lives in St. Louis. 
Thanks for the kind words at the bottom of your note and I will tr>' to continue to make the ^ , column of interest to ever>'one. V 
From the Alumni Office: Congratulations to JOE H.ARRINGTON, man­ager of Pfizer Corp. in Colon, Free Zone, Panama, for his taking the lop award of the government of Panama, the Order of Vasco Nunez de Balboa. 
1940 
James G. Bro>vn 
144 East 44th Street 
New York, N. Y. 

Questionnaires have been returned undelivered from the following men . . . please drop a note to the secretary \v-ith your whereabouts and a little news: BOB O'NEILL, JACK DOERMER, ED NEALE, BRYAN COLEMAN, PAT GOFF, FRED STUBBINS. Tlic men who received them and did not fill out and return .. . no need to list you fellou-s. You are already on my list. 
Greetings from Wisconsin! One of our coopera­
tive brethren, AL FUNK, says hello! Al is presi­
dent of a rubber footwear outfit in La Crosse, has 
five children . . . four girls and a boy ranging 
in age from seventeen to sbc. Al must have been 
feeling philosophical when he filled out his ques­
tionnaire, commenting on a busy and interesting 
life bet^vcen working, watcliing the children s^ovt 
up, and the usual extracurricular activities. Ho\s' 
true! Everj'body is busy. Al recently saw NEAL ^ 
GLEASON and DAVE HYDE. • 
Have a lew words from BOB CRUICKSHANK who is with the Isthmian Steamship Company and is based here in New York after a stint in the Southeast Asia area. Bob is married and has t^vo boys. Bob mentions that the New York A. C. here in N. Y. has a group of N.D. people who meet periodically for a little socializing. ROGER EGAN diecks in with a lew \*ital statistics: he is secretary' of the Barwick mills in Dalton, Georgia, has three diildren and would like to hear about JOHN O'BRIEN from Indianapolis. Tliis column aims to please, so we will promptly send O'Brien a questionnaire. Inddcntally, on tlicse question­naires: we are not really taking a 5ur\'ey. This is just a ruse to extract some sort of information from you fellows. So just don't fill in the factual data. Get real newsy in question 6 wliidi luis the most space for your answer. Attended an N.D. ^ \ Long Island meeting (by proxy) recently and saw" ' SAEGERT, MARTIN, CELLA, and CHUCK RIFFLE, who is now a permanent resident here on the island. Chuck is now teadting and coaching football at one of the local high schools. 
Chicago investment man JOHN HENEBRY joined Fairiianks, Morse & Co. as director of the water division, an outfit that plans to soKc the water problem with desalting equipment for sea u-aler. And sports sources say BUD KERR, who quit coadiing the U. of Dayton, O., after collegi­ate stints at Washington and San Francisco, has returned lo the Golden Gate: "Bud's back in town . . . moved his covey of daughters and \vife, Mil­dred, into a Peninsula home and joined an in­surance office. . . . Kerr rates as 'special agent.* Sounds like OSS." How about Bud's address, somebody on the Bay? 
Last month I sent five questionnaires to people ^ in California. Please don't take the NLxon affair so hard. Send them back here! 
1941 
James F. Spellman 
7 East 42nd Street 
New York 17, N. Y. 

REUNION RIME A memory rears that both blesses and sears: Pearl Harbor^s behind us by 20 long years. Conme on, '41, le's get all the yams spun June 9-10-11 in Sweet Sixty-One. 
From the Alumni OfRcc: 
WiUi JIM SPELLMAN and AL PERRINE con­niving on ihc Coast and the team of JIM TINNY, JOE CALLAHAN, JERRY HICKEY. JIM HAN­NIGAN and BILL HOSINSKI substituting on tlic home front for the regular team of JOHN Mac-a\ULEY and FATHER TOM 0*DONNELL. the 
ft 20th Annivcrsar>' is getting into gear. A high per­centage of the Class is on the road raising funds for X.D. this year, so Hannigan and Hosinski have reluctantly agreed to oversee the details (Jim com­mutes to Chicago and the Judge is up to here in law practice) such as the Hall — probably Morris­sey — and the Class Dinner — as sumptuous as a Friday night will let it be. 
Meanwhile, fund raising for '41 begun in the last issue has continued with a letter to the Class. A few bucks to the Class treasury is not too much to ask for, considering the modest $20 fee which covers every reunion expense but breakfasts. 
Finally, as if to mark tlie second decade, the men of MI arc advancing on all frontiers: WILLlANf £. COTTER, JR., of Duluth, Minn., former president of the Alumni ^\ssn., has been appointed manager of sales for Oliver Iron Mining division of U. S. Steel. Since 1936 Bill has been assistant to the 
A \ncc-prcsidcnt in charge of operations. HcMl ad­minister an intensified national sales program. With Oliver since W. W. II na\-y duty. Bill was chosen by U. S. Steel for a Sloan Fellowship at M.I.T. in 1953. Bill has been general chairman of Duluth's Community Chest, first vice-president of the Sym­phony Association and president of the Scrra Club. He hopes to be on campus on the 9lh. CH/\RLES 
V. CRIMMINS would like to make it, but now he has a long way to come. At the request of the home oflicc of Merritt, Chapman & Scott in Nc^v York, Charlie is on the Oregon Dam Project in the Northwest wilds, about 50 miles northe:ist of Eugene, Ore. "Tliis is a 30 million dollar dam project being constructed for the U. S. Govern­ment," he says. "We arc the only contractor, and completion is presently scheduled for late 1963. Thus I expect to be here till the middle of 1964. 
It is quite a project.'* Charlie is warehouse super­
• \'isor and property accountability supen-'isor, in charge of all cost records of parts, supplies, etc. He plans to move his family to Oregon in July. He sends regards to all and particularly JAKE KLINE. You can write him at Box 197, Blue River, Ore. WILLIAM C. McGOWAN, vice-president of McMillan ^fortgagc Co. in Palo Alto, Calif., has been elected president of the sprawling N.D. Club of Northern California. Bill says he intends to tv'ork hard for the N.D. Program for the Future in the San Francisco area and he *'has some hope" of making the reunion. Then there's FRANK J. WEMHOFF, named vice-president in charge of public relations by the board of directors of Indi­ana's largest advertising agency, Caldwell, Larkin & Sidcncr-Van Riper, Inc. A former News-Sentinel staffer in his native Fort Wayne, Frank broke into the p.r. industry* as publications editor for Bowser, 
^ Inc., then went to Indianapolis 1949 for successive 
9 p.r. posts with Bozell & Jacobs, Indianapolis Transit, Bryant division of Carrier Corp. and in 1957. CL & S-VanR. Frank should be on hand natt Week. 
1942 
William M. Hickey 3333 West 47th Place Chicago 32, Illinois 

CROWLEY. If you will recall, in the November 
issue ol the Alumnus, wc indicated that George 
is now working in England. Tom spent time 
in Rome and was fortunate enough to have an 
audience with Pope John, and was made an 
honorar>' member of the N.D. Alumni Club of 
Rome. He recommends that all who go to Rome 
look up these people. 
While it is not directly the writer's function, I would like to call to your attention the fact that in the Class Report of Contributions, our class is not as well represented in contributions as some of the more recent classes. For example the year just passed, 202 members out of our class of 577 made contributions totalling 57,262. A comparable class is 1944 with 214 members out of 580 donating $11,466. I am sure that you are all aware that if tlie University is to grow it needs to be considered for a percentage of whatever chanty contributions you make." From the Alumni Office: 
CHARLES A. SHIRK, Hinsdale, III., has been named manager of the research division of the Austin Co., international engineering and construc­tion firm with headquarters in Cleveland. He joined Austin 13 years ago as a structural engineer in the Chicago district. As Chicago's assistant engineer he designed the structure of a 525 million Auto­matic Electric Co. plant in Northlake, III. 
A South Bend native, R.ABBI ALBERT PLOT­KIN of Temple Beth Israel, Phocnbc, has a double alumni lo>-alty, N.D. and the Phoenix Club on one hand and on the other his rabbinical school, Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion in Cincinnati. He's been named an alumni over­seer of the latter, representing .\rizona-New Mexico as a thirty-member national advisory committee of religious leaders. Congratulations, Rabbi. 
Future Class Masses will include the intention of a summer grad school classmate, SISTER MARY CLARE O'BRIEN, who died earlier this year. 
1943 
Jack Wiggins 5125 Briggs Avenue La Crescenta, Calif. 

From the Alumni Office: ROBERT T. M.ADDEN has been appointed manager of astronautics sales within Goodyear iWrcraft Corporation's Aero-Science Sales group. He'll handle sales for space and re-entry vehicles, recovery equipment, structural components for outer space application, astronautics research and develop­
ment, etc A native of New Hartford, N.Y., Bob joined Goodyear Aircraft's research and develop­ment dept. after seven years «vith the National Ad­visory Committee for Aeronautics and a year with a missile firm. In 1956 he began sales wot^ vdth escape capsules and re-entry \xhide3, joining astro­nautics sales in 1959. He lives in Hudson, Ohio. 
Pray for JUDGE THOMAS W. CAIN of N^les Mich., Municipal Court, who died in February at University Hospital, Ann Arbor. Tom finished law school with the class in spite of severe injuries from an accident and went on to become a Justice ­of the Peace, Niles' first Municipal Judge and a Republican political leader. Sympathy to bis mother, widow and daughter. 
1944 
George Bariscillo, Jr. 416 Burlington Ave. Bradley Beach, N. J. 

JOHN DUFFY has supplied us with a run-down on New York people, and we are happy to pass along his latest report: 
"We had our 6th annual 'Impromptu' Christmas get-together during the holidays with JACK KELLY, BILL O'CONNOR, ANDY BARBIERE, JACK (ROCKY) SULLIVAN. RED McCAFFER-TY, TONY EARLEY and JIM GALLAGHER, in attendance. The brothers CASEY welshed as did SLIM BR.-\DY and one or two others. But we had a grand time (I think). Tony and Bill O'Con­nor had just returned from a convention in Chica­go where they ran into our inimitable buddy, JIM GIBBONS. That provided most of the entertain­ment, for the evening was replete with 'Gibbons Stories.* 
"Incidentally, did you know that JOE GAL­LAGHER is to be ordained a Paulist Priest In May? We (the same group mentioned abo\-e) met Joe at the Navy game and he looked fine — need­less to say that he looked better than any of us at the time. 
"^\> haven't seen ED DOWLING since wc last had dinner together some time ago. I know that he still lives in New Hyde Park, but I'm afraid I haven't any news beyond that. 
"ANDY BARBIERE just had his third daughter. BILL O'CONNOR is now expecting his seventh (due in May). We still have only six; JACK SULLIVAN still has five; TONY six; JACK KELLY four; RED XfcCAFFERTY is expecting his second, but that Is pretty good considering his 
NEW ORLEANS—^U.N.D. Night in the bayous gave the guest speaker, Joe Kuharich, a 
0 ^Vc heard from TOM KENEDY. 513 Pelham-
chance to cat with Creole-Irish football standouts of recent years, (L-r.) Al Ecuyer, Tulane's 
dale Ave., Pelham Manor, New York. He had 
New Year's dinner in London with GEORGE Andy Pilney, Coach Kuharich, Club President-elect John Pctitbon, and Joe Heap. 
Notre Dame Alumnust June, 1961 39 
oldest is fourteen. JACK SULLIV.-VX and 1 have made plans to take our two oldest out to the Northifcslcm Game next /all. 
**Ncws from other departments as I recall it: JACK SULLIV.-VX u-as at JIM K.ANE's house re­cently and so was "RED JOHN" MURPHY. "RED JOHN*' was supposed to come to New York shortly thereafter, but he never shm*'cd up — Man — if he came and never called, I'll cut him out of my will. 
"I had a note at Christmas from our other JACK SULLIVAN (Dundee, N.Y.) and the first thing I tliought of w*as the remarkable comparison be­tween Sully and BUD AHEARN. When wc were freshmen. Jack was from Ithaca and BUD AHEAIOT was from Boston. Wlien we were Sopho­mores, wc learned that Jack wasn't really from Ithaca but a suburb called Dundee and Ahcam wasn't from Boston, but rather Foxboro. By our 20th Reunion, the truth might really be told that Sully lives in Starke>', N.Y., whicli is a suburb of Dundee and Alieam lives in Lakcville, ^^ass., whicIi is a suburb of Foxboro. At any rate, JACK SUL­LI\^AN is owner of the local Ford Agency in Starkey — and I tliink he rents lake cottages on the side. He tells me tliat our old buddy, P.AUL McCABE, is. still District Aitome>- in Ithaca County. 
**I don't know whether it was a mistake or not, but it seems to me that I saw a recent article about BOB MciVULIFFE baring moved from Syracmc down to ^Ycstclte5ter County. Wc b3vcn''t seen or heard from him and if he is in the area, I hope lie calls us. 
"I still sec DAN a\SEY regularly for luncli. AL ZOILO is with Brooks Bros, and \\'c see him pretty often. DAN CASEY is u-ith Sxrift and Co. ANGELO BERTELLI is a Jeisejite but wc see him at most of the local affairs — Angcio has more things going for him than Calumet Farms. ED MONOHAN drops in and out of town fre­quently and always calls. Saw BILL BOSS once since he moved lo New York. He is still a V. P. at RCA. JIM (GEORGE) SULLIVAN lives on the Island now — lie is an attorney for a local bank. JACK WHITELY is siill running the 
W. R. Grace Co. BOO^^ BOOM BILOTTI is still making Cliiclets with the American Chicle Company, but I don't sec him at all. 
*'If you know of anyone coming to New York, please ha^-e them call at Barclay 7-3555." 

BILL LAWLESS, who is about the youngest Federal Judge in captivity, writes from his Su­preme Court Chambers in Buffalo, New York, that JI.M CASEY is Assistant Director of the American Red Cross in Buffalo, working in the blood bank division. Bill is Buffalo area Chair­man for the Foundation and busy raising $20,000.00 tliis year. He reports that last Sep­tember he was assigned to trials in New York City and had the pleasure of dining with BILL O'CONNOR and JOE TRAC\'. Joe is counsel to the owner of the new Camclot Night Club in New York. 
Wc had a telephone call [rom BOB SCHRAiLM in New York the other dav, advising us that REV. BILL GRAH.AM, C.S.C., is now president of Notre Dame College in Dacca. 
Oar eastern V-P, BILL WALDRON, adiiscs he ran into ARNOLD NUNNICK at I.T.T. Federal Labs in Clifton, New Jersey, recently. Arnold and his wife recently adopted a little girl. Tlic Waldrons are sailing to the Caribbean in April aboard one of JACK WHITELY's yaclits, the Santa Paula. 
FARRELL QUINL.AN is looking forward to the arri\'al of the LAA\XESS clan (Bill has eight) in July at the Quinlans' resort, Indian Cave Lodge, Lake Sunapce, New Hampshire. 
Recently learned that LARRY GOEBELER and family are being transferred by his company to Campinos Sao Paulo, Brazil, for a year. We arc not sure whether he is in coffee or oil and would appreciate a few lines from Larry. 
Wc arc hoping for a report from BOB METZ­LER, FRANK STUMPF, BILL KENN*Y and TOM BRENNAN for the next column. Will a few others please also check in witli your Class Secre­tary so wc may fiJJ this space in the next issue. 
JOE NEUFELD is busy witli Foundation work in the Green Bay area, where ^VALLIE CHRIST­MAN is currently N.D. Club President. Inci­dentally, Jos recently Joined the Board of Di­rectors of the Peoples Trust and Savings Bank in Green Bay and is a good man to knoiv if you need a loan. 
From the Alumni Office: FATHER EDWARD O'CONNOR, C.S.C., one of tlie Class' foremost theologians and just about 
40 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June, 1961 
INDIANAPOLIS — On Universal N.D. Night (from left) Cathedral High senior Harold Pokcl, winner of Club scholarship to Notre Dame; Robert V. Welch, '50, chairman and 1961 N.D. Man of the Year; and Dr. Thomas Carney, '37, toastniaster, look on Bob AVelch's surprise citation. 
tops as a Mariologist, gets a belated bravo for his appointment last November to the Pontifical Roman Tlieological Academy, Rome's honorarv' society for distinguished theologians. 
Grad school classmate PHILIP E. RYAN u-as named executive director of the National Associa­tion for Mental Health in March and took the job as of May 1. 
Your pravcrs are requested for former classmate MATTHEW J. 0'BRIE.N', who died suddenly at Lynn, Mass., in Februarv*. S>Tnpathy to Matt's faniily. 
1945 
Frank ^I. Linehan 29 Burr Drive Dalton, Massachusetts 

Deadlines are a necessary evil in business but wlien you must file your next column before the last one is Issued, it gets lo be confftsing and dif­ficult at times. 
All should feel elated for the fine *'thank you" wc received from our outstanding retired secretary, AL LESMEZ. We are happy to run a picture of AI with Iiis gifts in this issue. Many fine tri­butes \%'ere made to Al as a result of our solici­tation, some were as follows: 
*'Hc*s done a great job .. . a stvell guy . . , real appreciation for all the work he has done . . . appreciated the news tliat AI dispensed regularly . . . someone who has done so mudi, AL LESMEZ . . . best Class secretary I ever knew .. . a tre­mendous job as Class sccretar>'.'* 
To add to AI's happiness in his **retiremcnt*' is a new Ford Falcon that he won on a raffle conducted by MEDICO. As you may know or expect, our recipient has contributed a great amount of his time and know-how to this outstand­ing organization. Best of luck to Al and thanks for a job well done. 
Christmas is the time for exclianging greetings and wc were liappy to hear from many of our class­mates and fellow alumni: MIKE GARRY, TOM McCAUGHEY, BILL BRACKEN, REM TONER, FATHER DON TRACEY, HARRY WALTERS, JIM RETTER, TOM BERGIN, FATHER JOHN CONNELLY, JIM DONNELLY, JOHN POWER, JIM CLYNES, and from the alumni office, JOHN LAUGHLIN and JOHN AfacCAULEY, and other alumni: former track captain BILL LEONARD, TOM HOWLEY, a successful basketball coach, RAY ZASADA, insurance broker and part-time politician; BOB SCHAFER, president of alumni % club, all of Sclienectady; BOB ECKEL, Blue Ash, Ohio; JIM O'BRIEN and ED REAGAN, Pitts­field; AL GROSS of Pittsburgh; JACK GALLO­WAY, Loudonville, New York; and JIM ROEMER, San Jose, California. 
W*c arc sorry to hear of the death of BOB 
O'CALLAGHAN's father, ROBERT J., *14. Our 
prayers and s>'mpathics arc offered to Bob and 
his family. We were greatly saddened to learn 
of the untimely death of MIKE GANEY, '46, 
who drowned last June. Wc remember Mike 
from those famous inter-hall dashes between St. 
Ed's and Sorin. May he rest in peace. 
JIM DONNELLY, Class Treasurer, who did 
a splendid job on AI's testimonial, writes that 
he will be communicating with the class members 
soon seeking their class dues. Tliey have been set 
at $5.00 for the five years-'61-'65, a vcr\" reason­
able sum. Tlicse funds, in case you don't know, A 
arc used for Mass stipends for deceased class­
mates, postage and sundries, and to build up a 
fund for our next reunion, the 20th in 1963. So 
if you haven't done so — send yours in TODAY. 
Jim also passes along a few ncwsbits: H.ARRY 
RYAN's home was seriously damaged by fire last 
summer; fortunately no one was injured. DR. 
FRANK MARTIN was seriously ill last year with 
hepatitis. DICK M.-\RTIN was very happy to read 
that JIM CLYNES is a Tvorking Democrat. Bick 
is serving his second term on the County Central 
Committee and was chairman of Dollars for Demo­
crats in San Diego, Calif. Jim also expects to see 
HARRY RY.AN, TOM BERGIN and BOB RIOR­
DAX in the Big City this spring. 
ProL TOM BERGIN, Head of Business Ad­ministration Department in the Commerce School, made a trip to California last fall to analyze nc\v programs for the Commerce School. I would love M) to sit in on one of Tom's classes. BOB GORSKI Is president of Tlieo. J. Gorskt and Son, Inc., Jolict, Illinois. They have sbc children evenly paired off. Congratulations to FRANK MILLER on bis promotion to Chief Engineer of Owens* Blou-n Plastics Container Division, Toledo, Ohio. Bob has been with Owens since his discliargc from the Na\-y in '46 except during 1952 to 1954 when he was recalled to active duty and 5cr\'ed as cap­tain of an L.S.T. bascrd In ^ortolk, \1rginia. Tlie Millers have a daughter 10 and a son 4. 
JIM DONOVAN, the dynamo from Jersey, is 
still going strong. He teaches English and History 
at the Essex County Technical High School and 
coaclics their soccer team. He is attending night 
school at Seton Hall and Rutgers and keeps busy 
during the summer on the New Jersey Turnpike. 
Jim and Claire have three girls, ID, 9, 3, and ^-^ 
two bo>'s, 8 and 6. " 
News from another successful Democrat — JIM 
L.AMB's wife, Mary Jean, writes from Grand 
Forks, North Dakota, "Life was mucli simpler be­
fore we won." Jim is Democratic County Chair­
man and was an alternate delegate to the National 
Convention at Los Angeles. Tlic Lambs have five 
bo>-s, ages ID, 7, 6, 4 and 1. An attorney, ardent 
golfer and bridge player, Jim is active In the 
Exchange Club and has been selected for "AXTio's 
Who in the Northwest." Tlie>' expect to take in 
the Oklalioma game this fall. 
A short note from BOB MADDEN in Kansas 
City, where he has been district sales manager 
for Milwaukee Lace Paper for the past 9 years. 
Marge and Bob have 4 children, 2 and 2. 
From Coldwater, Micliigan, wc heard from JIM SCHWEICKERT, superintendent of nurses in a state home and training school for the retarded. ­Jim carries on much of the management and edu-M) cation program for the entire staff. Although state funds have been somewhat tight, fine work is being done with an outstanding dedicated staff. Jim is active in the local theater group and has assisted in getting special education for the handicapped ditldren into the schools. He ser\'cs as a "con­sultant" to the neighborhood on gardening, for this is his delight and recreation. Jim hopes to get the family down to the campus this summer. 
Our prcz writes from the suburbs of Boston that he is keeping on the go with all kinds of activities. He is out recruiting chemists and chemical engi­neers in New England for Union Carbide. The JIM RETTERs and RAY BADDOURs had dinner on one of his recent trips. Jim met BROCK LYNCH for a minute at a meeting of the Catho­lic Sodality of Boston. Mr. Prez is serving as cliairman of a sports night for his parish. I don't know when Florence and the 5 little Rctters ever A <«• Daddv.t Daddy •
sec 
It seemed February w*as "small reunion" month 
for your secretary. After having been snowed in 

I during the Inaugural Bltzzard here in Dalton and cancelling a meeting I was to have with JIM RETTER in Newton, February made up for It. On a recruiting trip to Chicago and Dallas, I had a chance to talk to a number of our class­mates. We spent our first c\*ening in the Windy City with JOHX POlVER, former Green Banner columnist. It was a great evening of reminiscing — our freshman days in Bronson with BROTHER PAT, GENE SCHAEFER, JOE MALONEY, JOE SULLIVAN, "LONG JOHN" KELLY, JOE KELLY, FRANK GILHOOLEY and many others. St. Ed's with FATHERS GORMAN and KELLY and BILL FITZHARRIS, ARKY ROWLES, DR. PAT MAZZA, "aVRDINAL" MOONEY — then to Sorin with FATHER FORRESTAL and the '*young*' Kent, Bud \IaIone, Larry Ramoza and his boys in the sub — a real great evening* John, an attorney in Chicago, unfortunately has the successful businessman's ailment •— ulcers. He was 
f sorry that he was unable to make the 15th but their second child was born on June 3rd. John practices in the Loop and lives in Westclicstcr. Due to our recniittng schedule, our second evening in town was booked but I was able to talk to BOB OTOOLE. V.P. of Pullman Bank, for a few minutes. Bob keeps busy with his family and with the bank being open Saturdays and a couple evenings a week. He did get to sec the N.D. — St. John's TJ. basketball game on the campus and «'as quite upset at sportsmanship (or lack of it) of the student bodv. 
Also talked with TOM McCVUGHEY, another practicing attorney In Chicago. Tom says Hx\RRY RYAN drops In occasionally on his trips to Wis­consin but with the new toll roads and express­ways. Harry now keeps more on the move. Tom and his family expect to take a trip cast this summer and hopes to stop off and see us. 

I We tried to reach some other classmates. JOHN RINELL/\, JOHN L^UIERY. but time ran out on us. We did nm into JACK DONNELLY, '50. in the Palmer House. Jack is back in Schenectady and is with the marketing group, small motor department of General Electric, On to Texas and a fine talk with our Southern \'icc President, JOE H.\GG.\R. Unfortunately due to our schedule and the flight engineers' strike, we had to re­fuse a kind dinner inritation from the Haggars. Joe passes along his best to his classmates and It was because of a neccssarj* business trip to New York that he had to miss our 15th. Joe Is plan­ning on the 20th already. 
Not that the seeing or talking to such a number of classmates in a short time would suffice for a while, I \*"as almost bowled over here In Dalton, Mass, a real large community of about 5.500 citl-

I 2ens. one Saturday morning. I walked into the local barber shoo to be erected by a fellow in the chair all covered uo with the sheet: "HI. Frank 
— I'll bet you don*t remember me?*' I "'as struck for a moment, but who was it but BOB WALSH, the former Biij Citv boy and .great friend of BOB ROSSITER. Bob (Walsh) was in tlils area to attend a wedding. He Is with the U.S. Informa­tion Agency and lives in Alexandria. Virginia. To make the world even smaller, his wife and mine were onlv a year apart at tlie College of St. Ro5c in .Albany. 
I only wish cver>* month would be like February-and it wouldn't be any problem getting news for our class column. 
Wth this issue we complete the short sketches of your officers: Vice President (West) AHCHAEL GORMAN GARRY: "After graduation from Notre Dame. Oct. *45. I returned to my home in Fair-

I mont. Minnesota. For two years, while I u-as gain­ing experience in the grain business (what else BIJT In Minnesota) T had myself a ball. I guess It was the foresight that today I'd be at the old grind 10-14 hours a day, that prompted the post-graduation hilarity. However, it %\'as my good fortune to meet, court and wed a lovely girl, Elizabeth, in June '52, and to date the count of heavenly bundles Is five .. . 3 boys and 2 girls. Tlianks to the Almighty Giver, we have enjoyed health, happiness and sufficient means for luxuries, as long as c\-er>-onc is willing to go without. Aside from being an officer in the Winona Council of Catholic Men and local Exchange Club, active in the ciric affairs that involve us all. most every a\'ailable moment from my family and grain elet^ator has gone into Cohimblanism In mv local 
K. of C. council and the privilege of being District Deputy for the past five years. I'm afraid my role as a 4th Degree Knight has been lacking, hut with the closest Assembly 50 miles away, it puts a crimp in things. FmanciaHy, I'm a man of un­limited wealth. My books show currently my net 

LOS ANGELES—Hcadlincrs at joint Notre Danie Night ceremonies of L.A. area N.D. Clubs included (W.): Msgr, R. J. Flaherty, '24, L.A. Club Chaplain, who spoke on "Personal Responsibility of the Alumnus to the University"; Morton R. Goodman, Los Angeles president; Benjamin B. Sal\-aty, Jr., San Gabriel Valley president; Gail Patrick Jackson, actress-producer of the "Perry Mason" TV series, who spoke on "Personal Re­sponsibility in Entertainment"; E. W. Shceran, Greater Long Beach president; John N. Leonard, San Fernando Valley president; and Norman Barker, Jr., vice-president. United California Bank, speaker on "Personal Responsibility in Banking." Francis C, ^Vhelan (not shown), U. S. Attorney of Southern California, spoke on "Personal Responsibility in the Administration of Justice." 
worth to be $5 million, listing my five children 
as assets. And with my wife listed as working 
capital, my mint of happiness will never run dry. 
Thoughts of Notre Dame and my friends from 
college days arc my most cherished memories from 
the past,, and will be again In the future when 
tlic Garr>* Bo>'s arc there from 1972 and on." 
Tlie last officer to run "Tliis is His Life" is your Class Secretary: For the first five years after graduation, I was associated with the Oswego, New York, Knights of Columbus for three years and with the New York State Council Knights of Columbus for t\vo years doing promotional and public relations work for them. Returning to my native Schenectady, I joined General Electric in 1951. The first eight years with them were spent in Schenectady doing production work and \-arious assignments in employee relations: workmen*s com­pensation, community relations and personnel work. On St. Patrick's day, 1959, I moved to the Pittsfield GE as Security .-\uditor for the Ord­nance Department, producer of fire control and incrtlal guidance sj-stems for the Polaris missile. While in Schenectady, I continued my active interest in the K. of C , the Alumni Club and other civic and charitable activities. ily K. of C. activities found me as Financial Secrctar>' of the Schenectady Council, Faithful Navigator of the local General iVsscmbly, Sec­retary ol the Capitol District Conference and State Chairman of the Pilgrimage to the Shrine of the North ^Vmerican Martyrs at Aurlesville, lievf York. After being a member of the Central New York and Mohawk Valley Alumni Clubs my first five years out, I became an active member of the Schenectady N.D. Alumni Club, being its secretary for two years, president for two and Foundation chairman for three. I was the recipient of their "Man of the Year" au'ard In 1953. It 
seems I was getting to be knou'n as a "pro­fessional'* or "habitual" fund raiser in the com­munity after ser\'Ing as city-wide chairman of a testimonial and fund raising dinner for FATHER PEYTON, C.S.C.; G.E. Co-Chairman for a local hospital drive; executive committee of two drives for the parish school and convent; a Catholic Central High School drive; N.D. Foundation, then inaugurating a Bishop's Burse for the Education of Seminarians by the Albany Diocese Councils 
K. of C. I could say they were glad to see me leave town. After taking special courses at the New York State School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell U., Ft. Holabird, Mar>-land, 
O.C.D.M. at Battle Creek, Michigan, 1 am now undertaking my masters studies at the University of Massachusetts. My current activities In the 
Berkshlres are being secretary of a ne%vly formed 
Alumni Club, a delegate of the local Holy Name, 
a suburbanite with plenty of grass to mow anil 
an erratic golfer. The Linehan's have one son, 
Timmy, four years old. 
The Class of '45 was ^vcll represented in the 

year-end '60 edition of the Alumnus. 
Congrats to JOHN CXRON, V.P. Midwest, on his appointment to the Ad\-isory Council for the Liberal and Fine Arts at School. . . . Good luck to Dave Condon with his book "The Go Go Chicago White Sox.'* . . . The fine article by FR.ANK MILLIGAN. .. . Tlie leadership our classmates are giving local alumni clubs — DR. DALE STANNARD, PIiocnLx; BOB O'CAL­LAGH/\N, Tucson; DICK MARTIN, San Diego; GEORGE DESPOT, Northern Louisiana; BYRNE O'NEILL. Midland-Odessa, Texas; ENRIQUE LULLI, Peru. . . . Congrats to BOB SNEE on the birth of a son, James Edmund, . . . The Spotlight Alumnus article on Jim Paris. 
Tills about completes this column. Let's be generous with the correspondence. 
From the Alumni Office: Congratulations and commiserations to FATHER JOHN E. WALSH, C.S.C., who stepped from heading the education department to directing the Foundation after the illness of F.ATHER JOHN WILSON .. . to indefatigable AL LES­MEZ, now president of the N.D. Club of New York .. . to RICHARD M. SADOWSKI, elected president of Dade Commonwealth Mortgage Co., Miami. 
1946 
Jack Tenge, Jr. 770 California St. San Francisco, Calif. 

REUNION RIME So your rent's in arrears and the wife is in tears; You've awaited reunions the past 13 yean. Let the landlady dun; tell the wife, "Spare me, hon, June 9-10-11 in Sweet SixtyOne!" 
From the Alumni Office: Those gathering at the 15th anniversary reunion 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 41 
will wish to pray for a popular classmate with whom contact was lost. He dro^vned last June. The death of MICHAEL JOSEPH GANEY, JR.. was re­ported to 1945 Sccrctarj- FRANK LINEHAN by a kindly nun in Chicago, where Mike had been teaching at Loyola Academy. 
Remembered by Frank above for his part in the inter-hall rivalry of Sortn and St. Edward's Hall, Mikt: supplemented his A.B. u'lth a master's degree in education at N.D. in 1948. The Alumni O^cc had not had his current address for some years and 5omeho\^* had overlooked any obituary notice that appeared in Chicago newspapers. If any classmate has a clipping or information, please forward so that condolences and a notice of Masses can be sent to survivors. 
If you've had trouble reaching your secretary lately, the reason can be found above; it's a long way from Detroit to the Golden Gate. If you haven't been in toucli uitli Jack, now's the time for contact, to let him knoi*' you'll be on deck for the Fifteenth, rain or shine. Include recent cliangcs of location, job, family, etc, so you won't be a stranger next June. 
Moved from Glendale, Mo., to 38 Old Oak Drit-e, New ProWdencc, X.J., are JAMES F. MOLIDOR, wife Dorothy, and their three children. Tun, 11, Margi, 10, and one-year-old Jimmy. Jim's been named product director for the hospi­tal division of Johnson & Jolmson, in charge of developing and promoting new pharmaceutical prod­ucts. Since N-D. and Libcrt^'\-ille, III., Jim has also been with J. £: J. in Dcs ^loincs and Min­neapolis. A grad scliool product, FRANK G. FERRICK, has been named manager of industrial sales for Pittsburgh's Gallery Chemical Co. Frank, who joined the company in 1958, lives at 133 Park Place, Xorth Hills, Pa. 
1947 
Jack Miles 3218 Bentley Lane South Bend, Indiazia 
COUXTDOU'X 

The final year before our 15-year reunion Is ^bing inexorably away, so don't be absent when tlie Class of '47 corporatcly blasts off and wings into week-end orbit around the freshly-gilded Dome! 
The dates again, and we'll be reminding >-ou of them often so you won't forget, are June 8, 9, and 10, 1962. 
DEATH CLAI.MS NO. 16 

BOB VON HOENE won't be with us, save in spirit, since we Icam from the Alumni OfHce he died in September, 1959; how the news was so slow in getting through we know not, but even at tliis late date wc regret to have to pass it along. He was married and lived in Ridgewood, N.J. 
FATHER JOHN PATRICK DOLAN, C.S.C.» sang a Requiem Mass for the repose of Bob's soul, and we ask your prayers for the same intention. And don't forget the 15 other class­mates who have preceded us Jn death. 
Also please remember prayerfully JERRY 

HENDEL's father, whose death occurred Feb. 17. 
QUESTION'NAIRE RESUME 

Rather than send a separate mailing, let me give N'ou a few fast figures on the reunion plan­ning help you gave us and which will help your local committee in catering to >-our wants: 
Wc got 120 forms back, which is about 16% and pretty good, and they came from 23 states, the District of Columbia (a "maybe"), and from DON H.AINES with the Navy overseas (an un­certain *'no"). 
Of the 51 tentatively booked for the weekend, 11 are from New York; nine from Indiana; five each from Illinois and 'Wisconsin; four from Michigan; three each from Ohio, Pennsylvania, Missouri, and California; and one each from Min­nesota, New Jersey, Florida, \\''est Virginia, and lov^-a. Classmates from Rhode Island, Colorado, Washington, Texas, and Montana arc possibles. 
Significantly, of the 89 answerers who have never attended a reunion, 27 said **yes" and 37 "maybe." 
PERSONALITIES 

The pride of LaRaza during our undcrgrad days, ROLANDO DUARTE, was named minister of economics for EI Salvador Jan. 26. 
On that date, according to press accounts, gun-bearing soldados routed our boy and three or four others from their homes and drafted them to form a new junta in the face of revolutionary threats from Castro sj'mpathizers. 
So Rolando is on a hot spot in San Salvador, and surely we do well to pray his ministry may be successful in stabilizing the economic situation and repulsing the Red menace. 
JIM SHEA, whose teaching duties may hinder his return for the reunion, writes to report he recently received a Master's degree in special edu­cation from Columbia University. 
A high scIiooI AND 2^otrc Dame classmate of mine, I*ARRY REISTER, was in South Bend re­cently to address a meeting of the Life Under­writers .Assn.; a chartered life underwriter, Larrv* has lately been transferred to the John Hancock home office in Boston as field assistant. 
FATHER DOLAN, who reveals he is wrapping 

up u'ork on a book about Erasmus, spent the Easter ^ 
holiday's back home in Iowa with his family and ^ 
his brother, BROTHER IVAN, who has added 
21 pounds to 150 as he heads back for another 
seven years in Pakistan. 
Peg and BILL PECK of South Bend uelcomcd 

their sixth child, Andrew, on Feb. 22; the>* over­
came without undue difficulty the impulse to name 
him George Washington Peck. 
Hoping to make the reunion is HAL WALTERS, cliief examiner for the U,S. Department of Agri­culture in Minneapolis with duties in Minnesota, Wisconsin, ^lontana, and the Dakotas. He's mar­ried and the father of three boys and three girls. 
FOOTBALL FORTUNES GOING UP 

COACH JOE KUHARICH is practically as­sured a successful football season, for that sweet singer of "Tlie Star-Spanglcd Banner," JOE LEAHY, is rejoining the faculty after three years* _ study of 9th Century trope in Europe . . . and w it cannot be merely coincidental our "dry spell" has lasted those same tlircc years. Joe used his Musicological grant to do research in Amster­dam (where he lived on Bcclhovenslrasse, yet) and in Paris, where he resided on Rue Notre Dame dcs Champs! 
FATHER LOUIS KELEHER, C.S.C., has be­come assistant retreat director at the Villa Ma­donna Retreat House in ^vhat looks like Towy­bum. New Brunswick, Canada. 
And SMITH HIGGINS is acting dean of the Division of University Extension at Indiana Uni­versity in Bloomington. 
ROCKNE BREAKFAST 

At the recent 30tli annual Rockne ^^emoriaI Communion Breakfast on campus, we had a chance to chat a bit with CHICK MAGGIOLI and JACK ^ ALEXANDER; the former is still host at an V Italian eatery in Mishawaka, and the latter cur­rently working at Notre Dame on a Ph.D. in political science. A major in the Air Force, he heads for MIT in the summer to assume command of the Air Force ROTC unit there. 
Jack, who taught at Notre Dame from 1951­55 and whose studies are backed by the Com­mittee on International Relations, remarked he had a \isit last time he v^'as on the ^Vest Coast with cx-Buckev-e VINCE OPPENHEIif. who works for a San Francisco ad agency. 
THE MISSIVE GAP 

Except for the reliable S.A^I ADELO, such a gap exists; you are welcome to invent ways of cIosii:g it. 
Smiling Sam (sec picture, with star-athlete-M^ tumed-benchwarmer) stenographs: **I have just ^^ completed an eight week trip to South America. In the 16 countries that I visited, I had an op-
KENTUCKY—Head tabic for Universal Notre Dame Night in Louisville's Brown Hotel included (at rostrum) Lt Governor Wilson W--:^ Wyatt of Kentucky, Father Hesburgh, toastmastcr James Carey; (on Carey's left) Msgr. Fdix N. Pitt, head of the Louis\*iUe Catholic*^ 
School Board, and Hon. B. C Van Arsdale, Jefferson County judge. 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 
portunity to see many o[ our Notre Dame alumni. ^ ".. . I had lunch with JUDGE FRANK WSZYMANSKI from Detroit, 38,000 feet above the 
Andes Mountains. I met Frank and his wife at Viracopos airport outside Sao Paulo and ^vc flew on a BranifT jet to Panama. Frank and I stayed in Panama City and two days later he continued on to Honduras where he visited an old friend of ours, MIKE FACUSSE '44." 
From the sports desk of the Springfield, Mass., ncu-spapcr string (Union, Republican and Daily News) JIM REGAN sent a mucli appreciated contribution to the Mass Fund and word that he's still alive and kicking in the sports writing (quote) racket: 
"I have had a couple of good assignments lately. I u-as at tlie NCAJV finals at Kansas City —- am a member of board of directors of basket* ball writer's association. Then I took a xncation in Oklahoma, It was the Masters next, and I en-

A joyed covering litis spring golf classic for tlic first time." 
Tlianks, Jim, for the squib and Mass Fund donation, turned over to Treasurer JOE SHARP. For all who get a similar impulse, Joe's address is 3112 Woodmont Dr., South Bend. 
WA^TCE HOLMGREN was in school at the time we were, though he didn't graduate 'til 1953; he writes from San Diego: 

"I am an officer in the local Elks Lodge. I also do industrial engineering consulting work (for free) for some of the local charity organizations . , . Outside of that I just act like any other normal father, although I w-ould like to return to school ne.\t year and start on a Master's in Industrial Engineering. I want to further my edu­cation. In this day and age your education can't 
^ stand still; the progress in all technical fields Is just too fast. . . , Hope to see you when we re­turn to South Bend m June for a short \isit." 
BRUCE E. SILL, at last report handled sales in Missouri, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Texas, Kansas and Louisiana for RejTiolds Wire division of Na­tional-Standard Co. AVidc-rangrng Bruce and family (three children) live at 1395 Tliorouglibred Lane, Florissant, Mo. And in Jersey City, N.J., ANGELO BERTELLI may coach in the New Jersey high sdiool's College Scliolarship Bowl again in .August. 
CLUB ACTIVITIES 

Browsing through THE ALUMNUS xve note a few of you arc officers in your local Notre Dame clubs. Presidents from our midst arc LEN PUCCf, 
^Muskegon, Mich.; DICK HOHLER, Sandusky, O.; 
VBO B AfERZ, Spokane, Wash.; and JOHN MOEL­LER, Quito, Ecuador. Treasurers arc BILL HAS­SETT, Central New York, and BOB WOOD­HOUSE, Grand Rapids. Congratulations to you men. 
Let's take more active Interest in our local clubs and give them more of that matchless '47 leadership! 
ALTERED ADDRESSES . . , 

.. . are recorded for DON APPLE, BOB BAUER, KE\7N CARLEY, FRANK CIZOX, FRANK COLEMAN, a\ESAR DIPOL, ALVIN FEUER. DR. BILL GARNER, FRANK GILHOOLEY, JIM GRIFFIN, CLAIRE HANSE.N*, GEORGE IRWIN, FRED JONES, BOB L.\NGE, AL MARRERO, CLEO .MELCHER, JOHN GIVEN, AURVLV -PROSCHE, CHARLIE SAMSON, JIM SATTLER, 
Vand JIM SHExV. They are not classified informa­tion and can be obtained without an act of Congress. 
THOUGHT FOR THE ISSUE To enlighten us Start writin' us. 

From the Alumni OfHce: 
Freshman classmate JIM DURBIN did It again. Vice-president and managing director of Tucson's Pioneer Hotel, director of a dozen civic organi­zations in his area, he followed his election as Tucson's Man of the Year by j'oim'ng Phoenuc' TED O'MALLEY, JR., '53 (March-April issue) on the board of directors of the 32-branch Arizona Bank. Jim, wife Mary Jo and five cliildren now 
Mivc at 2 N. Pasco San Pedro, Tucson, hanng moved after a fire whicli took a sixth child about two yean ago. 
ANDES DANDIES from the Class of '47, Abdallah "Sam" Adelo (left) and Detroit's Judge Frank Szynianski pause at Interna­tional Airport, Lima, Peru, during a recent flight from Brazil to Panama. 
1948 
John Dcfant 
George A. F£latim, 
Publisher, Inc. 
38 West Fifth Street 
Dayton 2, Ohio 

From the Alumni Office: 
A familiar grin, taking up a quarter-page of a Boston Herald rotogravure section advertising ca­reer opportunities, ^vas corroborated by the blurb beneath: **A new twist to the idassical job of Selling has developed with the coming of electronic systems. Today's salesman, often working with engi­neers and scientists on complex systems, himself needs an engineering degree. TOM O'CONNELL has a mechanical engineering degree from Notre Dame, works with a customer redesigning one of the world's largest bridges." Looks like a good deal, Tom. One bridge sale a year and 51 weeks \*acation? 
DR. D/\NIEL J. DILLON cliecfccd in ^vItIl word that he has left SteubenviUc, 0., and also gone down east to Boston (perhaps Influenced by O'Con­nell] *'and have become associated with the Lahey Clinic, Boston, Mass., to add an additional year to my surgical training and experience." 
A third Irishcr, JOHN W. O'BRIEN of South Bend, has been elected to the board of directors of St. Joseph Bank & Trust Co. John, now vice-president of Fcrron R. Davis, Inc., Investment counselors, was with the St. Joe Bank for 11 years, becoming commercial loan officer In 1935, before j'olning Davis In 1959. John's on the boards of Community Chest, Chamber of Commerce and Mental Health Clinics; he belongs to many clubs 
— cliicfly, of course, the St. Joe Valley N.D. Club. 
Finally, a fourth Mick — apparently an im­mortal one. Tlic stature of DR. TOM DOOLEY Seems to Increase daily since his death, so that even the filing of his estate in St. Louis probate court is considered "fit to print" by the New York Times. Tlie Class' most honored member continues to receive posthumous awards. On March 12 his brother Malcolm accepted on his behalf the Peter Canisius Medal from Msgr. James McGInley, presi­dent of Canisius College, xvho said that Tom was *'an outstanding American whose career and achievements constitute a cliallenge and an inspi­ration to our American youlli *vho arc being trained to succeed the leaders of today." 
If Irishmen seem to have taken over the column it's the fault of you non-Irish who haven't kept JOHN PAUL DEF.\NT (no son of Erin he) apprised of your activities and those of your buddies, Irish or not. 
1949 
John Walker Wajmc, lUmoU 

From tlie Alumni Office: FR.ANK £ . SULLIVAN, one of South Bend's hustllngcst iiuurance men and former United Fund Torch Drive chairman, was elected president of the United Fund of St. Joseph County early tliis year at the lOth TJF au'ard dinner and annual meeting. A campaign executive for the past three years, Frank was abo a recent Jaycee "Younff Man of the Year." He is a partner with Coach JOE McARDLE as general agent for American United Life. Frank's career, the award-wimungest in these parts, started on campus when he was secretary to another habitual winner, FRANK LE.\HY. '31. Banker-Ia\*7er W. JAAfES TYRRELL was pro­moted back on Feb. 15 to vice-president of the First National Bank of Memphis, Tenn., where he got his LL.B. from Southern Law University while working since graduation. Jim now reprcsent's the bank's correspondent bank department in Ar­kansas and Oklahoma. Another Jim, JAMES J. FARRELL, has moved from Hickory, N.C., to Pittsfield, Mass., wth General Electric Jim w-as formerly Southern re­gion sales manager for G.E.'s distribution trans­former department, but now he heads the new Central and Southern sales re^on. He's a welcome addition to the sxvingm' membership of the N.D. Club of the Berkshires. Congratulations to the above and to WILUA&f 
D. SUTHERUN and wife Mary Kay (327 MUton St., Janesville, Wis.) on the arrival of their daughter, Catherine Hayes on March 12. 
1950 
Richard F. Hahn 47 Emcison Rd. Glen Rock, N. J. 

From the xVlumni Office: It has been a great time for business among the men of *X. Congratulations to: RAY J. LAM­MERS, owner-manager of Lammers Outdoor Ad­vertising, whose firm rated a big spread in the trade magazine of the outdoor advertising industry for its model public relations policies In the Findlay, C , community; to preWously spotlighted JOtCi M. PROOS, district manager of Indian­apolis* Layne-Northem and board chairman of Memphis* Layne & Bowler Inc., who has been named executive secretary of Layne Associates, promotional assoa'atlon of pump manufacturer L. & B. and 13 Layne well drilling firms; to THOMAS 
M. O'GRADY (M.S. '51), teSning and catalyst researcher, appointed project chemical engineer at American Oil Co., Whiting, Ind. (Tom and wife live at 518 Long\%-ood Dr., Chicago Heights, 111.); to JAMES W. GLASER, promoted to assistant general sales manager of American States In­surance Companies, Indianapolis; to realtor WIL­LIAM C MEEHAN, who has joined the new-homes sales staff of Place & Co., South Bend, after sales experience with O'Brien Corp. and Studebaker plus three realty companies, including his own; to ROY E. WENDELL, RockviUe, Conn.» appointed in Afarch as public relations director of the Hamilton Standard division of United Air­craft Corp., Hartford, after three years as as­sistant director, prior to which he was p.r. di­rector for World-Wide Army and Air Force Ex­change Service In Nctv York; and to ROBERT 
D. SIERON (M.S. '52), appointed director of market development hydrocarbons for Amoco Chemicals Corp. In Chicago after three years with Amoco and seven previously with Standard OH (Indiana) in Whiting (Bob, wife Ann and their three children live at S43 Manitowac Ave., Park Forest, III.). 
It's been quite a time for vital statistics too, starting vdth the wedding of WILUAM J. GAL­LAGHER, JR., and Maureen Sheila Smith on April 29 In Dallas, Tex. The production line in 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 43 
the birth department includes: Barbara and NL\RK 
H. BEREXS (1251 Pine, GlcnWew, 111.), "hose son John arrived Feb. 23; Mr. and Mrs. .\RTHUR 
P. O^VENS, who had a daughter on April 8; Mary and DUD BIRDER (music department, St. Norbcrt's College, DePerc, \Ms.) with a new daughter, bom Marrh 16; Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH HICKEY (retiring president of the St. Joseph Vallev- X.D. Club, living at 1131 E. Eckman, South Bend), whose son came in Fcfaruarv-; Mr. and Mrs. JOHN H. O'REILLY (1441 Cherokee Lane, Ottau'a, HI.) with a son. Edward John. Jan. 31; and Mr. and Mrs. GEXE P^VSZKIET (409 Xapoleon. So. Bend) with a new tackle on 
Jan. 29. 
1951 
Robert Klingcnberger 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. AVaync, Indiana 
REUNION RBIE How the time disappears! AVe haven't cadged beers With classmates at Joer's for 10 long years. We can brag of our stmming ne^v^ daughter or son Jwie 9-10-11 in Sweet Sixty-One! 
Received a phone call rrom JOE NAUGHTON, while he was in town. Joe is married and work­ing witli the patent legal firm of Lqckwood, Wfmdard, Smith and Weikart in Indianapolis. He told me that JOE HAIOfOX is still a bachelor and working with the Link Belt Company. JOE LAUBER is married, has two children, and is a doctor of medicine in the Army, stationed at Ar­senal, Arkansas. ART SMUCK is married, has two children, and is working for the Smuck Floor Covering Company in Indianapolis. 
Received *vord that CHARLIE 0*DOXNELL 
would take the step and marry Barbara L^oin 
Washburn on Mav 27. Also, that his brother, 
FATHER JOSEPH F. O^DONXELL, C.S.C., '55, 
would marrv them. 
"KOKE"'(JAMES R.) CUMMIXGS, 925 South Main St., Kokomo, Indiana, wrote that in De­cember, he saw DICK. BURKE, his wife and three children (51 Eden Lane Number 3, Le^^tto^*•n, Xc%v York), and that Dick is flWng jets for United Airlines, mostly between Sew York and Chicago and Xctv York and llic West Coast. Also, while in Xciv York, he saw JERRY HALLIGAX, who is still living at home, working on a master's degree in education, helping his father in his business, and very successful in coacliing basketball at St. Peter's Prep in Jersey City, Xew Jersey. His teams have %von the last three Catholic state cliampion­ships. Tlianks Koke. 
TOM KIGIX (Business address: Fibre Drum and Corrugated Box, 4500 South Kolin Avenue, Chicago 32, Illinois) wntcs that on December 22, he and his wife received an addition to their family of two boys; namely, twins — a boy, Tliomas Joseph, and a girl, Teresa Lucille. Congratulations, twice. Tom also writes that following the '56 reunion a group of classmates started a poker club known as TEB.\PS. (Tlmrsday Evening Beer .And Poker Society.) Membership is limited to '51 grad­uates and it meets cvcr>' third TTiursdav. ilembcrs arc: BOB CLE.MEXCY, JOE RIGALI,'jIM JEX­NINGS, DICK GARRITY, PHIL FACCENDA, FRED BRICE, JOHX BUCKLEY, JLM LA CESA, ED MEAGHER, and Tom. All '51crs arc invited when in Chicago. 
Also, I've got some old news tliat I received al­most a year ago and misfiled. Please excuse me, but I believe it's still newsworthy: 
AL GUARNIERI and wife .Ann had a bov, Albert Edu-ard, on Mardi 22, 1960. 
DAN BAGLEY, 2743 Xorth 59, Milwaukee, Wis­consin, uTOte mc last March and reported that he and Xanc>' then had two bo>'S and two girls. "Bag" is still with Goodyear Tire &. Rubber Co. as a salesman. He reported that BOB HOFF (Tlic HofTer) had had his second cliild. 
JOE GALLOWAY wrote that all is well with the Galloway's and A\ico in Blnghamton, Xew York. He sees DICK GIEDLIX once a year when he brings tlic Alfred Tech Statesman basketball team to town for a tournament. 
TOM BREXXAX and Greichen Laur^iII were married on ^fay 7, I960, at St. Mary's Catholic Church in Aberdeen, 'Washington. 
JOSEPH KASPER's father died in October, 1960. 
That's all the news and while your thoughts arc 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus, June^ 196! 

OKLAHOMA CITY—Award Chainnan HasVcll Askew congratulates high school junior Mike McDonald, named "Boy of the Year" and flanked by his parents in unique ceremony on Universal Notre Dame Night, April 8. 
on *5l classmates and Xoirc Dame, resolve right now to attend the reunion in June and start writ­ing some of the old friends and let's turn out big. From the Alumni Office: 
BROTHER RAYMOXD FLECK, C.S.C., Ph.D. *54, president of St. Edward's University, Austin, Tex., is the new cliairman of the southern re­gional unit of the Xational Catholic Educational Assn., succeeding F.ATHER BRIAX EGAX, O.S.B., 
M. .A. '58, president of St. Bernard's College, .Ala. So the job stays in the X.D. family. 
On campus from Coming, X\Y., intcr\'iewing seniors for Coming Glass, PAUL V. LOVETTE, JR., is a senior development engineer. *'Six kids now,** Paul sa>'s. Recently he saw XELSOX LOWE (Gcorse X.) at his home in Glens Falls, X.Y., married nov*- (one cliild, expecting an­other) and a trust representative for First Xa­tional Bank of Gtens Falls. 
Congratulations to South Bend lawyer ROBERT 

M. PARKER on his marriage to Suzanne Smitli in Manila, Philippines. Tlic Parkers honej'mooned in Hong Kong and Hatrali before rctummg to South Bend. 
1952 
Harry L. Buch 600 Board of Trade Bldg. \Vhceling, W. Va. 

H.ARRIXGTOX, JOHX; presently assistant gen­eral agent for John Hancock Mutual Life Insur­ance Company at State Street Gflices in Boston, Mass.; Mrs. Harrington, John Jr. & Sheila arc residing at 65 ilayo Road, W'cUesley, Massa­chusetts. 
NLATHEWS, THONLVS A., M.D.; 2531 Eye Street, X.AV., Washington 7, D.C.; Georgetown University Scliool of Medicine 1952-56, M.D. 1956; presently psycliiatrist at Post Dxspcnsar}*, Marine Corps Sdiools, Quanlico, Va.; single; on active dut>' as Lieutenant in the Medical Corps, USX. 
GIBBOXS, R-AY M.D.; Georgetown University, 1956; married 1956, two cliildren; spent two years in the Army Medical Corps; currently in medical residency at Georgetown Univ. Hospital, Wash­ington. 
TUXXEY, JOSEPH J., JR.; married, has three cliildren; presently in International Finance De­partment of Chemical Bank and Xew York Trust Co.; residing at 25 Indbn Rd., Xew York, X.Y. 
MOXAGLE, PAUL D. & wife; parents of first cliild, a daughter, Marianne, bom October 23, 1960, at St. Margarets Hospital; residing at 77 Beach Street, Wollaston, Mass. 
FRAILICH, AVILLIAM C; married Aug. 27, 1960, to Miss Louise ^fcDonald in St. Kevin's Church, Montreal, Quebec, Canada; their new address is ] 6014 Muskingum Blvd., Brookpark Village, Ohio. 
From the Alumni Office: Belated congratulations to DR. EDWARD J. 
SMITH, located at 1515 Uth St., Boulder, Colo., where Jim turns out to be assistant dean of men at Colorado University. And to South Bend's RALPH V. .MYERS, awarded membership for 1961 in the President's Club of Great-AVest Life As­surance, Manitoba, Can., whom he has repre­sented with outstanding sales and high standards of conduct. ­
1953 
David A. McElvain 6717 Paxton Avenue Chicago 49, Illinois 

There has been an encouraging influx of mail over the past several weeks wliich leads mc to believe that perhaps the Class of '53 is not extinct^ after all. Hopefully tliis will ser%c as an incentive to those of you from whom wc have not heard in manv moons. Among the correspondents: 
Capt. .AL KOH.AXOWICH, USMC. writes that he has been piloting Marine helicopters since short­ly after graduation, and is presently stationed at Pensacola, Florida, instructing in ph>-sical fitness at the sdiool of prc-flight. Al was married to a Pensacola girl in Xovcmber, '58; thc>' have one daughter and number two is on the wav. Al serxed willi GEORGE HIGGIXS and RAY DEI­TRICK at MCAS Miami, and recently ran into D.AA'E FOX on a rcscr\-c cruise at Santa Ana, Calif. Al reports that Dave docs a good job of keeping a helicopter right side up with no pre* vious experience. 
From South of the Border, ADOLFO CALERO reports that life in ^fanagua, X^icaragua, is full of excitement, including revolutions now and thcn^ Adolfo is married and has a boy and a girl, an{^ is managing the Coca-Cola bottling plant for Xicoragua. 
JACK CLARK has moved from Bean Town and settled in Morton Grove, Illinois, and has recently formed his oivn company. Plastics and Equipment Sates Company. Jack is selling plastic molding and extrusion materials and equipment to plastic processors, and he is aggressively search­ing for customers. BOB XIQUETTE reports in from ifanitowoc, U'is., »\'herc he is busily engaged in the steel fabrication business. Bob has three cliildren at the last head count. Bob sa\*s that he recently saw DICK KLUMB, who is witli the West Bend Equipment Company in West Bend, Wisconsin; also hears regularly from PAT COFFEY, who is firing in Villa Park, 111., and works with the Illinois Tollway in public relations. 
Several members of our class have joined forces.^^ with IBM and are working in the Chicago arcaf, BILL REIDY and ART LEWIS arc data pro­cessing sales representatives in the E\-anston branch 
office, as is your correspondent out in llic Ham-Amond, Indiana, oflice. All three of us were ably ^trained in machine fundamentals by BILL SAUM, who is now regional specialist on the 1401 System. In this capacity Bill enjoyed a several week as­signment in Paris, France. Bill was married to the former Elizabeth Pape on December 31 last year. Another Xotrc Dame IB^f'c^ is BILL BIRD, who was a sales leader in the Eastern Region last year. 
Picking up the West and- Southwest, GEXE MEUNIER is living in Carmichael, California, selling business forms for Standard Register, work­ing on 9-iron approach shots, and waiting for the 2nd baby. JOE HAWES is owner of the Owyhee Seed Company in Bruncau, Idaho, and is raising a family of four. DAVE KAHLICH is a con­tractor in Weimar, Texas, and also lias four children. HEICH HEICHELHEIM is working on his Ph.D. at the U. of Tt\as in Austin. He received his M.S. from Notre Dame in 1956 and 
l^wIU have taken a position as assistant professor of chemical engineering at Texas Tech in April. Heich has three children. 
From Green Bay, TOM AfURPHY is com­plaining bitterly that all the home town female talent is being spirited a\vuy by out-of-town guys, which accounts for his present bachelor status. (Could be that Tom Is referring to the writer, inasmuch as my Better Ifalf is a fonncr Packer Backer. I can attest that Green Bay is an ex­cellent source of "talent.") Tom is ^lanaging Editor of the Fanner's Friend. DICK McCOX-NELL is an intern at Minneapolis General Hos­pital. In July Dick goes to the U. of Michigan Hospital at Ann Arbor for a three-year residency in radiology. BOB KELLV is a furniture dealer In Winona, Minn., and thus far has three little Kell>^ at home. H.VNK MASS>L\N is Exec. V.P. with Massman Construction Co. in Kansas City, 
^engaged principally In construction of bridges, locks, and dams. Hank does a good deal of trav­elling throughout the South and Midwest search­ing for business. 
While most of us shiver and dream about \-aca­
tions in Fiorida, BILL MAUS spends the year round in the land of sunshine. Bill is associated with Maus and Hoffman in Fort Lauderdale and, in addition to being a busy father of four, finds time to be active in Florida State Xotrc Dame affairs; planned to be attending the stale conven­tion in Naples, Fla., In April. ROGER KOHIN is a phj'sicist with the Battellc Memorial Institute In Washington, D.C. 
BOB MUNNS is travelling the East Coast sell­ing plastic resins for Enjay Chemical, a division of Humble Oil £c Refining. Bob and his family 
^of three live in Blackwood, New Jersey. D. A. 
"MARTI N is an engineer with the Lummes Co.. and lives in East Orange. New Jersey. LARRY MURRAY is a research physidst with ITT I^bs in Nutley, N-J- P-AT LEE is an account executive with Ted Bates S: Co., advertising agenc>% and has a start on his own **zoo" with 214 little Lees. Pat lives in Paramus, New Jersey. FERDINAND LURSKI is an engineer with Western Electric and lives in PlainfieW, N.J. BERNIE McDER-MOTT Is an Insurance agent with Allstate In Yonkers. N.Y., and makes his home in the Bronx. BILL KILMINSTER is a security analyst & stock broker with Haydcn Stone & Co. in New York. Bin lives in Short Hills, N.J., and keeps busy on the liomc front as the father of three boys. 
GERRY MARTORI is a resident physician in pediatrics at Long Island College Hospital in New York. Ccrr>* Is married and lias two children. 
|GERRY MARSHALL is a metallurgist with 'SImonds Saw and Steel Co. in Lockport. New York. Gerr>' Is married to the sister of ED PERT, '52. and is raising two cheerleaders and two half­backs; saj-s he is located Just 12 miles north of the N.Y. thruu-ay. Exit 49, and welcomes trav­ellers. (Tliat could be risky, with some 900 class­mates tuned in!) BILL MOTZEL is an engineer with General Electric in Johnson City, N.Y., has four clilldrcn. DAVE EARDLEY has provided him­self w*ith the incentive for outstanding success In his law practice, having 6 small ones at home to be clothed, fed, and educated. Dave has his own law firm in Chardon, Ohio. BILL L^VMMERS is assistant operating manager for Firestone In­ternational in Akron. Ohio. Bill was married In June of 1959 and Bill Jr. checked In for I960. DAN MARSALEK is a dentist in Bay Village, Ohio, is single, and his activities include "little theatre," skiing, travelling, and the Na\-al Re­fcerve. Keep your eye on the political picture In Michigan, for «e have a tature legislator there in BILL KENNEDY. Bill won the primary but was 
JOHN C. HARRINGTON, '52 Like Hancock, a Leading Undenvriter 
Recently appointed assistant general agent for the Robert Pitcher Agency of John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co. in Boston, Mass., John Harrington is second in command for the largest income agency in the Hancock system, holder of its ali-time unbroken sales record. In a slow adv-ance­mcnt industry John has packed a lot of experience into seven years with Hancock, first as a home office administrative trainee, then agent, then agency super\'isor for Pitcher. 
Active in Boston's Life Underwriters .Assn., Super\'isors Club, and Life Insurance & Trust Council, John has been a con­sistent winner of the National Quality Award made to outstanding underwriters for sustained quality in business. He lives with his family in Wellesley, Mass., where he has been active in charitable drives and, with v'arying success, as a financial advisor in scx-eral state political campaigns, guber­natorial, senatorial and now presidential. 
defeated In the general election for state senator, as the Republican candidate. When not engaged in poh'tics, Bill is director of public relations for the Detroit Insurance Agcnc>- and makes his home in Grossc Poinle Farms wiili his family of five. 
That wraps up the gossip column for this time. I hope that those of you who have not yet been heard from wilt take the time to drop a line about yourself and others you may have seen recently. 
From the Alumni Ofilcc: Sympathy to the family of law grad ROBERT 
D. LIGHTFOOT, who died back In August of 1959 according to a reply by his widow to a postal tracer. 
Best wishes to GEORGE KELLY, former foot­ball assistant at St. Joseph (South Bend) High and Marquette U., who has joined the grid staff at Nebraska; to JOHN T. H/\STL\GS, now a product manager of industrial sales for Dobeckmun division of Dow Chemical Co.; and to CHUCK ROEMER, campaign director of St. Joseph County's 1961 March of Dimes for the National Foundation, the county cliapter ol whtch he also 5er\'cs as president of the board. 
1954 
IVfflton J. BcaudiQc 
76 East Court Dr. Decatur, niinois 

If a "Reynolds" number was calculated for the flow of mail to your new class secretary, it would surely be under the 2100 required for turbulent flow. For the non-engineers: I'm trying to say-that mail is anything but plentiful and without mat], the articles ivill have to be filled %rith the foregoing complaints about lack of material. One very Important item not to forget Is the Class of '54 reunion party after the N.D. — Na\'y game on November 4th. There are details at the end of this article. Plans are being finalized now and by the nest Issue or by a class mdling, you'll get more word. The Important thing now is 
(1) to get your football tickets and (2) be at 
N.D. on November 4lh, and (3) pass the word along so we'll have a big turnout. 
Received a letter from BOB CHICKEY, V. P. in cliarge of sales for Schroeder &. Curry, Inc. Bob was among the first offering help for the Navy game party. Tlianks, Bob. (Can use some help. Help') Bob reports the following from the Saint Louis area: DICK ASH Is In the ac­counting business with Ins dad. DON CUDDIHEE is an architect for Anhcuser Busch. JOHN GLAS­GOW is a project engineer for XfcDonnel Air­craft. DR. PHIL HIGGINS is finishing up at St. John's Hospital and is about ready to start practice. Also DR. MIKE LEVIS is about ready to hang up his shingle. JIM FUDLOWSKI is hard at work in the law business. BOB CHICKEVs address is 9810 Madison, Rock Hill 19, Missouri, and he U'ould appreciate Jicaring from any of his buddies. 
Here's an interesting business card: ROCKNE MORRISSEY, The Highway Equipment Co., Residence 4824 Harlou Drive, Dayton, Ohio. Also received a letter \ia GEORGE PFLAUM's faith­ful secretary from PHIL BREHM, 1833 Prcblc-St.," Grcen Bay, U'wconsii*. Pliil graduated from Mar­quette Law School in February and passed the \\'isconsin bar shortly thereafter. Phil reports see­ing KEN BOULAY, who's in market research with the A. C. Nielsen Company in Green Bay. One of our regular correspondents, BILL GUIL­FOILE, reports seeing PHIL BOLIN in the "Big City," New York, quite often; also that DAVE GILSDORF is teaching at the University of Mon­tana. ED S^VEENY reports that his brother, TOM, was recently married to Kathleen Pritchard and they arc residing at 5920 Scanlon, St. Louis 39, Mo. Tom is with Liberty Mutual Insurance Com­pany there. Hd is married, with one girl, Mary Francis, and Is teaching English at Morgan Park High School in Chicago. 
BOB WRIGHT, penned a long letter while va­cationing in Lexington, Ky. (residence: 5653 Beach­mont Avenue, Cincinnati 30, Ohio). Bob is most happy about accepting a position as associate marketing manager for the Kroger Company's candv dirision (STOP READING — RUSH OUT A.VD QUICKLY BUY A LARGE BAG OF KRO­GER GUM DROPS.) I GUESS THIS IS THE END FOR PROCTER & GA.MBLE, HUH, BOB? Word from Cincinnati informs us that after three sons, DICK and Madeline CASTELLINI have finally been blessed with a girl, Jane. Also, BARRY and Pat SiVVAGE had their first born last July, Kathy Moran. The most startling news was that BILL BURKE, one of the last hold­outs, had become engaged to Miss Lee Conway. Tlie big day for Bill and Lcc was April 15. Every­one at tlic wedding would naturallv be wearing rented tuxedos from PAUL "MR. TUX" KELLY. 
On the birth scene: David Lawrence was born 1-19-61 to Alana and JACK ROSSHIRT (448 
N. Waiola Avenue, La Grange Park, Illinois). Damian Patrick was bom 2-15-61 to CHRIS and Toni MALONE, JR. (2072 Meadow\•ie^v* Rd., Scotch Plains, N.J.). Verna and CHARLIE SPICA were blessed with Steven Sean on 2-24-61 (1154 Clacborn Drive, Sm>Tna, Tennessee) and GEORGE and Mary Ann HUBBARD had their fifth child, Sanford William 3-2-61. 
Jfrs. DAN MUNSON (Jo) reports that Dan Is too content and lazy to write. Jo and Dan were married in San DIcgo in 1935, The family was shortly enlarged by D. D. Munson the 4th, then Michael Patrick, then Sandra Anne and finally Richard Joseph. Dan is working for I. T, T. and resides at 5007 Stony Run Court, Fort Wayne, Indiana. Jo! Thanks for the letter. "IDEA" — why don't all you wonderful wives of N.D. '54crs 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 45 
write a quick note about year husband's acmitics? 
Spent a few mad hours with JACK PITTAS and JOHN GROSSPIETSCH during a layover at 0*Harc Field last month. As usual, I almost missed my plane after a hectic drive from Arlington Heights to the airport. I'm happy to report that both John & Jack haven't clianged a btt. 
Don't forget the Xav>* Game, and to con­tribute to the N.D. Foundation (2 for I) so we'll be the first class to liavc participated 100%. 
From DICK PILGER: 
Hear ye! Hear ye! Let's get together! There wil] be an Informal Reunion of the Class of '54 with our wives and friends after the Xaw game at South Bend this November 4. We're arranging for a rictorx' (\vc Iiopc!) celebration with cock­tails, etc, in the Student Club in the O'Shaugh­ncssy Building. Hic cost will be nominal, the faces familiar, and the occasion joyous, so plan now to attend. Order your football tickets as soon as you get the form; Let's Iiavc a big turn-out! A flyer with all the party details will be sent out later, but in the mc:uiiime, if >-ou think you may be on Iiand, please drop a note to: Dr. Richard C Pilgcr, Department of Chemis­try. Notre Dame, Indiana, so we f:an firm up the plans. 
Tlie '54 campus contingent is undergoing some changes. RON VARD.\NL'\N is writing his thesis and will receive a Ph.D. in metallurgical engi­neering lliis summer. Two of our faculty class­mates have gone on leave, CON'NIE SZUBERT to Iowa State for a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering and PHIL LOPRESTI to Purdue for a Ph.D. in dectrical engineering. Tlicse losses have been made up by tlic arrix-al of GENE HENRY as assistant professor of electrical engineering and FATHER DAVE BURRELL, ^vho is prefect in St. Ed's Hall. ^Ve number tlirec other assistant professors 
— CHARLIE ALLEN in metallurgical engineer­ing, JOHN HOUCK in business organization and management, and DICK PILGER in chemistry. Any man of '54 visiting the campus should feel free to drop in to exchange gossip. 
Order your Navy tickets! 
Trmn the Alumni Office: 
Air Force pilot-tumcd-law-clcrk ROBERT E. CU&fMINGS, JR., was handsomely profiled in the Burlington, Vt., Free Press as a great help to the press as clerk to tlie judge of the U.S. Dis­trict Court. Bob got his law degree at George­town last ycxu-. 
JAMES F. KELLEHER, the former South Bend public relations man, gets a tardy nod for lus appointment as assistant to the U.S. post­master-general for public information. Formerly 
•ncc-prcsident of Lindcr-Kelleher & Co., Jim goes to Washington with the Mrs. and four children. 
PHILIP R. BREHM got iiis law degree Iram Marquette in February, joined the AVisconsin Bar and the firm of E\-erson, \\liilne>-, O'Mclia and Everson in Green Bay, Wis. 
ROBERT SHONK is now a CPA in Illinois. 
1955 
Paul Fullmer 
7344 N. Ridge Ave. 
Chicago, HI. 
It's great to be writing a Notre Dame column again! 
A few years have zipped by since I sat in the basement of Farley Hall pounding out those week­ly "Splinters From Tlie Pressbox" gems for the Scholastic, and most of you probably would like to foi-get those literarj" "masterpieces." I hope you'll enjoy these columns more, but the only way they can be interesting is for YOU to sit (lows and pass along any and all bits of nc\N's concerning members of tlic Class of '53. I'm counting on you, gentlemen! 
Before we move on, let's all stand up and give m 'Tor He's a Man, For He's a Notre Dame Man" for TOM O'MALLEV, who has done 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 
COLUMBUS—On Universal Notre Dame Night (from left) Jack Gordon, '42, was named Coltmibus' N.D. Man of the Year; Rev. Stanley Parry, CS.C, head of .the political science dept., was principal speak­er; and Dick Kasbcrg, '48, was installed as president. 
sucli a great job with this column for five years. I know .Tom put a lot of time into this column, and we all owe him a sincere vote of thanks for a job well done. 
By the time this column sifts its way through the Alumni Oflice and the Ave Maria Press, I will have finally forsaken the bachelor's life. I walked down the long and wtdc aisle of Holy Name Cathedral in Chicago with the former Sandra Clifford of Mexico City on .April 22. I met Sandra last year when she was in Chicago for a golf tournament. Sandra is a fair golfer. She won tlie Mexican amateur and open championships last year in addition to the German and Spanish titles! I want to announce publicly that I have given up the game. 
^farriage lias been the key word for two other members of the Class of '55 in the Chicago area. TONi CAREY, who w-as the toast of the town this winter after his Mount Carmel football squad won tlic city championship, wed Mary Patricia Flanagan on Feb. 4. D.AN SHANNON, a team­mate at Mount Carmel and for four years on the Irish \*arsity, was a member of the wedding party. 
Our illustrious class president, DICK BURKE, finally took time off from his flourishing law practice to join the young marricds. Dick and the former Mar>'jcanne Ryan were married on Feb. 11. Incidentally, both the Carc\'s and Burkes honeymooned in Mexico. The theme in the Chicago area in 3961 is definitely "South of the Border, . ." 
ROY BELKNAP, who has been with the Mc­Donnell & Company investment firm in Chicago for several years, has been transferred to Detroit. He will be in charge of the office there. Right now Roy is tr>'ing to sell his house here and find another to accommodate his expanding fami­ly in Detroit. Roy would like all Ins friends in the Motor City to give him a call and make con­tact. 
MAX ROESLER is leaving Chicago for the 
Fort AVajTic area. Max, who formerly lived in 
Fort Wayne, is in the insurance business. 
JACK FLYNN is in the sales department for an office equipment firm here. RAY KENNEDY, the man vcXio almost made it back to the reunion last June, and his wife, Pats>*, arc the proud parents of a baby boy. Incidentally, Ray now is a reporter for the Chicago Sun-Times. He Is one of Kfarshall Field's right hand men. 
My roommate for two years, TOM DORWIN, still is water ski adviser for Evinrude Motors in Milwaukee. Tom, who was in my wedding party, got the idea and will marry Carol Roche in June. It's about time you were settling down, Humphrey. I've heard a lot of stories about those water skiers. 
One of tlie top scholars in our class, JIM BERQUIST, is teacliing at the University of Illinois extension at Na^y Pier in Chicago this summer. Jim passed the oral part of his doctorate ex­amination this past winter at Northwestern. He now is working on his thesis, and hopes to have his degree and begin to teach history full time 

soon. Quite a few members of the Class of '55 have fx>mpleted their law education in tlie Chicago 
area and now are licensed ambulance chasers! TV has its "Untouchables," but our class still^ has the **Unscparables." I'm referring, of course, to JIM GRIFFIN and JERRY BRANSFIELD. Jerry picked up his law degree from Loyola last term and is now an **attomc\' and counselor," according to the card he slipped me at lunch the other day. Jim is finishing up at Loyola this June while working days at a downtown bank. Another Lovola law grad is DON Mc-KENZIE. 
DePaul Universit>- in the ^Vindy City also has a group of N.D. law students. TOM IGLESKI is one that is due to pick up his degree this June. BERT METZGER will complete his .law degree at the University of Chtcaso in June, and plans on moring out west to Seattle. So those of you in the Pacific Northwest can get the wel­come mat out for Bert and family. 
FRANK LOLLI just completed a long stint in the Marines and is back in Chicago. The former^ president of the Chicago Club on campus hopes to complete his law studies at DcPaul. CHUCK COLLINS finishes his law work at Har\'ard this June, and tlic rumor mill has **SIade" engaged. How about it. Chuck? JOHN O'MEARA, Uic former fifth wheel in the Blue Circle, also is hitting the law books at Harvard. Tlic Navy caused John to get a late start, so he has a j-car or so to go. 
Speaking of law school, I think MIKE WARD should get a special award. Mike and Ins pretty wife, Harriet, recently welcomed their third child. Soon afterwards Mike quit his newspaper job and joined a public relations firm in Chicago (another competitor for me!). On top of that he recently started attending law school four nights a week! ^Voo^. 
TOM DRISCOLL and RICK HICKS arc t»o­of the leading young stock brokers in Chicago.! JIM EHRET, who couldn't stand the peace and quiet of cirilian life, is flying around the Pacific with Uncle Sam's Navy. TOM ARMSTRONG is busy in the textile business in South Carolina. PAT McNAMARA is back in Lubbock, Texas. "Mac" is with a certain soft drink concern. I'm not allowed to mention the company name, but he certainly cnjo\-s the "pause that refreshes!" By the w-ay, the McNamaras recently welcomed Pat, Jr., to the household. 
DICK BEEMAN dropped into my office the other day and all is well whh his family. Dick and Sue have four youngsters. Who's the champ in the class? I'm quite sure that DON YECKEL had four at last report. Let me know, troops. 
DICK MANNION now is with the Catholic Press Association in New York. TOM HAYESj who keeps in shape coaching a v-ariety of grade" school sports teams, still is selling more paper than anyone in the Chicago area. 
Another super-salesman in tlie Chicago area is NE.AL HALLORAN, who ivritcs insurance as fast as he can move the pen. JOHN AVEITHERS re­cently moved up a step at the Midwest Stock Exchange. FRANK MAIER, who now is a re­porter out in Rockford, reports that he recently 
LEO J. BROWN, JR., '50, (left) Ken­tucky's 1961 Man of the Year, and co­cbainnan-toastmaster Jim Carey, '48, arc congratulated by Father Hesburgh at N.D. Night in Louisville. 
bought a house. So it looks like Frank will be ^\%-ith the Star for a few years. 
As you may have surmised by now, the bulk of this column concerns those of its who enjoy the primitive beauty of the Chicago area. The only way I'm going to be able to expand the 
coverage is to hear Irom guys like MIKE 
AQUILINO, LARRY BREHL, L^VRRY BUCK­LEY, TOM BOSSE, HUGH BOYLE, BILL CAS­NING, DON DIXON, JIM GIBBONS, RON HENDERSON, JERRY HUGHES, JIM IR\VIN, BUD LA LONDE, JOE MADIGAN, DA\'E .METZ, JIM 0'SHE.\, BILL QUIRK, JIM SIEGER, BERNIE SMYTH, FRANK TOMNI, TOM ^\'ELLY and other fellou-s who sweated through the College of Arts and Letters with me. But just because you weren't in AB doesn't mean you can sit back and not write. Not at all! Let's sec those letters pour in. My bride even has volunteered to 5er\c as my social secretary 

^while I bring home the daily bread. " So how about gu\-s like BOB ARRIX, BOB 
BROWN, DAN BURKE, GEORGE C/\RHART, 

, JOE CHALHOUB, JIM DELINE, FRED ECK­
' ART, JIM HIPSKIND, MIKE JACKM.\N, RON KUEBER, JOHN McCULLOUGH, JOHN MUR­RAY, DON PETERS, MAURY REIDY, JOHN 
, RYAN, JOHN SOR.VNNO, and WARREN YOUNSTROM in Commerce picking up pencil and paper and sending me a few lines. It would be appreciated. 
Engineer grads like JOHN BENDEL, PAUL aVRDINAL, BOB FLEMING, FRANK FLORIAN, FR.\NK LYNCH, BERNIE McCLOREY, BOB MUTH, ED SCHICKLER, and BOB SWINDE­MAN can write, I'm sure, regardless of what my fellow A.B. men say. If I don't hear from the engineers, then I might be inclined to believe those vicious rumors. 
^ Tlie science grads probably arc so busy, or so deep in the research lab, that they don't even read this column. But I'm sure fellows like DICK 
1 DElcmUNN, FORST BROWN, DAVE DIS­
I CHER, JOHN CONNAUGHTON, TOM GRO­DEN, JOHN HERBER, GEORGE L^VWLER, JOHN O'BRIEN, WAYNE PETERNEL, DICK REAMER, TOM ROGERS, SAM SCHARBER, and FRED WHITFIELD will come to my rescue ivilh a batch of letters. 
But the first letter I expect to receive — TOM G'.MALLEY. 
From the Alumni Office: 

RICHARD S. REAMER, JR., continues his medical and specialty studies in Vienna. Dick's address is: Pension Cosmopolite, Alscrstrassc 23, Vienna VIII, Austria. 
^ Army Capt. DONALD M. GALLAGHER, JR., whose wife Nanc>* remains in the States, is now assistant operations and training officer of the 52nd Medical Battalion in Ludwigsburg, Germany Don got his M.D. at Stritch School of Medicine, Chicago. 
1956 
John P. Deasy 
5697 N. Lincoln Ave. 
Chicago 43, Illinois 

REUNION RIME fpft our memory veers to big wheels and small gears We fought with for four and have missed for five years. Though they've all gained a ton, not a one should we shun June 9-10-11 in Sweet Sixty-One! 
From the Alumni OHtcc: 
JAMES R. FITZSIMMONS of Frccport, III., an engineer at the Micro Switch plant, recently passed examinations and received a certificate as a professional engineer licciued for public practice in Illinois. 
C
DR. PAUL L. GERACE (Ph. D. '61) has been iigned as a research chemist in the Syracuse, y., research laboratory of Soh'ay Process di­wion of Allied Chemical Corp. 
JAMES O'BRIEN announced he would be or­dained a priest of the Diocese of Rockford, III., on .^fay 27, 1961, by BISHOP LORA5 T. LANE, '32. 
Right after serx-ing as chairman of the Alumni Ball sponsored by the N.D. Club of the Twin Cities on Dec. 30, .-Mr Force 1st Lt. PETER J. CANNON reported for duty at Wright-Patterson AFB, Dayton, O. Now he's at NAS.A Cleveland, where you can reach Pete, wife and daughter at 22362 Fairlawn Circle, Cleveland 26, Ohio. 
Pete and many others have expressed their de­termination to be on campus for their first reunion June 9, if only to get Secretar>- JOHN DEASY on the ball. 
1957 
Donald J. Barr 463 Briar Place Chicago 14, Illinois 
Jack E. Casey Chicago Show Printing Co., 553 W. Fifth Ave. New York 17, N. Y. 

As you notice by the change in address, one of us has been transferred to New York. The above is my office address and I am most anxious to see and talk with our Eastern contingent. 
Our deepest sympathy to JOHN BOVERI and JIM MUNORE on the passing away of their fathers. We're sure that they would appreciate a prayer from each of us. 
Chicago members of our class met again at Boveri's restaurant the first Monday of March. Among the members there were: TOM MARIENI, going to I.I.T. graduate school; GEORGE GROBLE, ha\'ing just completed law school and recentiv married; BILL MADDUX, practicing law; BOB ECKLUND, DA\'E MURPHY, JACK MOYNOHAN, JOHN WOLFE, and DON LEONE. 
JOHN McMEEL, who just returned from a trip down South, ran into MANNY RIV.VS, who is in medical school in Xe^v Orleans; LtVRRY HENNESSEY, who is with an insurance firm in New Orleans; and MOORE McDUNAGH, who is in the stock brokerage business and totd John that JOE HIGGENS is in Nicaragua. John also learned HxVRRY ODE.M is teaching school in Brownsville, Texas; LARRY BEDFORD is with a hardivarc company in Dallas; JOE NUEHOFF is associated with NuchofF Meat Packing; CONNIE LANE is in first year law school at St. Louis University; and JACK CRAWLEY is out of tlie Nav>* and working for I.B.M. John ran into Jack and Connie at BILL McGOWAN's wedding. /Vmong others present were JIM ROSE, Mf\X OLINGER, DON STULHDREHER, BILL MOONEY, BILL HOLL/VND, TERRY CONW.AY and JERRY BECHERT. 
We received a letter from JACK COGAN who recently had a baby girl. Jack mentioned that he and his wife were frequent visitors at the JIM OLBRICKS. Jim and his wife have a son and are expecting another child shortly. R.\Y MILLER, after finishing a training program at G.M.'s Chevrolet plant, went into flight training and is currently stationed in Guam. At the Nav>- game in Phillv Jack mentioned that he ran into JOHN HARVEY, DICK WAL>VOOD, RAY BRENNAN and DENNY TROESTER — Denny is working for an insurance firm in Washington, D. C. JACK BUCKLEY and JOE CARBONI accepted regular commissions in the USMC. ART GUTER­DING is working at a bank in New York and is working on his Master's at N.Y.U. DICK ZIGLER is also in New York and is in business for himself. MIKE GLYNN is a Marine helicopter pilot at New River, North Carolina. BOB PIN'TER was recently discharged from the Army and also is in New York. DICK HAHN is a salesman for IBM working in the New Jcrscy-Nc%\* York area. Jock asks that if anyone has JOE MOCORSHl's address, please let either him or us know. MIKE 
BURKE is a trafiic engineer with Michigan State Highway Department in Lansing, Michigan. 
We received a letter from JOHN GIBBS wbo is ctuTcntly a drug salesman in Minneapt^, Um­ncsoto. He mentioned that ELMER KOHOIIST is coaching at St. John's prep in CoUegeville, Minnesota. PAUL TRTTSCHLER is an accotmt­ant with General Mills. We rccei^-ed a letter frooi JOHN KENNEDY who mentioned that they had just recently had their first baby. John and JUI RUSSELL arc working in the oversea's diviuon of Procter & Gamble. 
From Springfield, Virginia, we hear from BOB WEINER who is working for the Na\'al Reactor Group while working on his master's in nuclear engineering. Bob and Mary are expecting thar fourth child soon. Bob mentioned that DON* MACHENBERG is working for Allis-Chalmers in Milwaukee as a mechanical engineer. He and his wife are expecting a baby in June. JOHN LUCY is working on his master's at M.I.T. 
The West Coast and GERALD TRAFFICANDA bring us this information. The Trafficandas re­cently had a cliild. They mentioned that RON FRiVNCIS is now with McCarthy Brothers in Stamford, Conn., and is traveling around the country raising funds for Cathoh'c Charities. Last August BERNIE LYONS was only a few hours from his USAF jet wings. Does anyone have any more information on this? TIGER MULCHAY u-as the proud parent ot a boy. He also men­tioned that GEORGE O'DONNELL was now married. REG BAIN is completing work on his masters in drama at the University of .Arizona. BILL BAPST, who has completed his Na\-y tour. Is residing with his wife and t^vo children in Lake­
. wood, Ohio. 
JERRY WETZEL, who is currently stationed at Fort Bliss in EI Paso, Texas, is with the Air Defense Artillery (Nike Hercules). He and his wife recently had their third boy. Jerry is due to be in Okinawa by June. 
GARY ZIMMERMAN recently wrote us with the news of many of that distinguished group knou-n as THE ARCHITECTS. MARTY MURPHV is recently married and is stationed in California. Two otiier Na\-\- salts — D.ANTY FUGLINI» 
RELIGIOUS BULLETIN 
In recent months many aliunni have Inquired about the Religious Bulletin, the spiritual newsletter founded in 1921 by the late Cardinal O^Hara when he was Prefect of Religion at Notre Dame. The Bulletin has continued under the prefec­tures of Fathers John J. Cavanaughy. Frank E. Gartland, John P. Lynch, Wil­liam T. Craddick, Richard J. Grimm, and Charles M. Carey, C^.C^ achieving a circulation of many thousands and sev­eral foreign language editions dnrii^ World War II. Since that time increas­ing costs and the growth of an effective Catholic press have reduced the non-student mailing list to about 1,500 demonstrably interested readers. 
Since 1958 the Bulletin has been edited by Father Glenn Boarman, the present Prefect of Rdigion. It has changed from a mimeographed to an illustrated Multilith fonnat, bat it stUl combines the familiar Bulletin ingredi­ents of homily, campus commentary, and religious notes, plus timely and topical quotations. Among its many *'scoog^ was the first reproduction of the now famous letter of the late Dr. Ilianias Doolcy from Hong Kong. 
Distributed three times a week while classes are being held, the Bulletin can be mailed to alumni who provide the annual cost of postage (about $3), ac­cording to Father Boarman. Wihe:: REUGIOUS BULLETIN c/o Rer^ Glenn R. Boarman, CSXl, Dillon BJk^ 

Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1962 47' 
married and father of two and stationed in Nor­folk, Virginia, and EARL HOGAN*, a recruiting officer in Clucago — have recently corresponded 
•witli
 Gar^-. DICK FABBRO is an arcliitcci in Akron. FELIX ANTONELLI is currently in Korea with the government. BOB ECKLAND is no\*­\%-ith the firm of Belli and Belli in Chicago. TOM KRISTOPIET is rumored to be in grad scliool at Har\"ard. Marriage, Detroit planning commis­sion, and grad school arc currcntlv keeping TERRY McCAFFERTV quite busy, JOHN CHURO is now married and working with his father. FRANK NEUBEK is now married and last fall was blessed 

•witli
 twins, a boy and a girl. He is now a. partner with an arcliitcctural firm. DON FLOCK is now married, father of two, and currently with Wcs King and Associates in Geneva, Illinois. He also operates a craft-and-curio shop and art gallerv' in Gcnc\-a called *'thc Unique.'' Gary is now associated with the Milwaukee architectural firm of Maynard W. Meyer and Associates, and will be getting married in July. 


Last but not least, our illustrious President^ GEORGE STRAKE, is still working on the 1980 football team as he had another boy a few months 
From the Alumni Office: DONALD LEONE has moved his missus and three sons — Don Jr., Micltacl. and Brian — Into their ne\v home at 407 Sclboumc Road, Riverside, 111. Don is a meclianical engineer for the Chicago firm of Sargent and Lundy. JOHN D. WEIST, Micliigan professional ser\­ice rep for Pfizer Laboratories dinsion of Chas. Pfizer & Co, Inc., is back in Saginaw (4423 Alvin St.) u-jlh irife Marj- Lucille and their five kids — Dan, Kathcrinc, Pamela, Joe and Laura — after company training sessions in Clifton, N.J. Former football Hash BOB SC^NNELL quit after three years coaching football, swimming, some baseball and basketball at South Bend's John Adams High and will teacli ph>'sical education at Penn State University, State College, Pa. Bob and Rcgina have a son nearly three named Robert. 
MARK A. MALEY, St. Louis, has joined tlic marketing department of Monsanto Chemical Com­pany's organic chemicals di%*ision after a hitch with the Naty. 
1958 
Arthur L. Roule, Jr. 1709 Indiana Avenue LaPorte, Indiana 
According to the schedule prondcd for me by the Alumni Office, I find that it is time once again to submit a column for the ALUMNUS, So, on this bright Spring day, I again resolutely face the tjpcvv'ritcr and, exhorting the muses of the matlbag, inaugurate our fourth year of reporting. Happily, I am still being favored by a generous supply of mail, for which I thank all contributors. "Without wishing to bore you with repeated appeals for materia], I would like to urge tliose of you who still remain silent to let us hear from you. Be assured that no one will think you boastful for submitting news of yourselves and your families. 
While on the subject of news gathering, I would like to apologize to anyone «'hosc letters may have been mislaid by me in tlie process of moving about and shifting my base of operations. It is possible that I may have missed a letter or two in the past several montlis, and therefore have failed to include it in this column. If such is the case — my apologies. As eager as I am to receive these items, you may rest assured that I intend to print everything that I receive. 
Now to the mailbag. Here is a letter on cm-bossed U.S. Army stationary- from JtSt VEGH. Jim, at time of writing, had about thirty da>-s more to serve as post adjutant at Fort Banks, Boston. By the time tliis news is in print, Jim will have returned to cinlian life and will be seeking his fortune on the "new frontier." 
A birth announcement arrived in January from Ifr and Mrs. JOE RICH of St. hauis. The ncu­arrival — Catherine Jo; bom — Jan. 17, 1961; statistics — 8 lbs. 1 oz., 21 inches. Tliis is the second daughter of the Ricli's; Joe is with Mon­santo — recently transferred to the production de­partment. Their first daughter, Beth Ann, is now dc\'en months old. Other news reported by the ItJdi family is .as follou:s:' WALT ZAKRZEWSKI 

•fff Notre,Dame, Alumnus, June, 1961 
h now the father of a second son, born in late summer; and GUY \\*EISMANTLE uill be mar­ried in June. By the u'ay, the Rich address is 1100 Midland Blvd., University City 30, Mo. 
A fine letter from JIM LENOX reveals the fol­lowing: Jim married Gay Dicerto, an S.M.C. Scliool of Nursing grad, in Sacred Heart Churcli during the summer following graduation. They now have a son, Stephen, and arc living in Hartford, Connecticut. Jim is brandi secretary of the Manu­facturers Life Insurance Company in Hanford. While serving his six months lour with the Army, Jim ran into MIKE CARROLL at Fort Dix. Mike ^vas to be married early in Fcbruar>% in New Jersey. His roommate, FR:\XK HEINZE, is li\-ing in the New York area, has a Master's degree from Columbia, and is engaged to Miss Carol O'Connell. Lenox also mentioned CHUCK WOOD and JIM STEINTRAGER, both of \vhom were in the Lenox Wedding party. Chuck is in med school at the Univ. of Louisx-iHc, and Jim is now mar­ried and living in Chicago. 

JOE MAWBY writes that: he is IJWng in Euclid, Ohio, with wife Pat and little ones Tim and Kathleen. Joe is in tlic restaurant business in Cleveland. He also had the sad news to report that J.ACK DOYLE, who was originally a mem­ber of the Class of '58, although he graduated in '37, died of injuries he received in an auto acci­dent last December 27th. Jack had been teaching at St. Joseph's High School in Cleveland, and was attending Marshall Law School. On the brighter side, Joe reports that TOM O'DONNELL Was married in February to Nancy Dugan in Rocky River, Ohio, Tom graduated from Wliarlon last summer and is now with Saunders & Stivers In­vestment Co. in Cleveland. BILL SHEEHAN is now with Motorola and is reported to be very happy with his work. 
Recently, while wandering about the campus at N.D., I ran into BOB LOEFFLER, who has taken a position as assistant to Mr. Ford in the 
N.D. Dining Hall. Tliis, of course, means that Bob is one of the few of us, who ever complained about conditions at Zi^ic's, who is in a position to do something about tliem. Bob forwarded to me a letter from JIM McLAUGHLIN whicli, although it didn't reveal mucli about Jim, did reveal the follovring: JIM \V-'\LDRON is an ensign on the TJ.S.S. Ashtabula out of San Francisco; he is soon to be assigned to Japan for several months. RON ALLEY is back from Germany. TOM 0*BRIEN (Big O'B) is in business school at Har\-ard; and the other TO-M O'BRIEN (little O'B) is a sales trainee, making frequent stops in New York. JIM McLAUGHLIN, by the w-ay, is married and ex­pecting offspring soon. BOB LOEFFLER, before returning to his present job at N.D., was stationed with Uncle Sam in Korea. 
GEORGE MITCHELL (223 Upland Road, Xferion, Pa.) uritcs to tell us that he is now in the investment business in Philadelphia. He is in the municipal bond department of Kidder Pcabody & Co. George is engaged to be married in September to Miss Mar>- Lou Hoban of Drexel Hill, Pa, In addition, he is secretary of the Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia. The cmminent Mr. ^ Mitchell would like to hear from JIM FOLEY and JERRY REEDY; and he sends along the fol­lowing information — PAT KITTREDGE is now witli lite Philadelphia Electric Co. and is studying law at Temple Univ. He too is soon to be mar­ried — in June to Miss Marj- Kay Dougherty at St. Matthew's Church, Bala Cynw>d, Pa. ED BRODERICK is studj-ing law at ViIlano\-a. JOHN G.-lGLIARDINt is \Wth U.S. Rubber as a sales representative. JIM VOIT is now with Rohn & Haas as a cliemical engineer; he and his wife, £d­wina, arc expecting their first offspring sometime this summer. 
.A letter from the rock-bound coasts of ifaine (Dow AFB) reveals that J.\CK BARTHEL is finishing up his lour with the -Mr Force and is interested in hearing from any other fly-bo\-s in the area. He passes along the news- that he has encountered RE.MY FRANSEN, JACK HOUGH,^ and PAT HEFFERNAN in Boston where they arc " prcscntiv at Han^trd. Also in Boston, at Boston College Law Scliool is JOHN CALL^VHAN. By my calculation, all these gentlemen should be graduating this month, as is your secretarv-. 
JACK BARTHEL also reports that TOM ED­W.\RDS was married in September of 1959 to Georgianna Stuart, an S.NLC. girl. Tlicy have one son, bom on their wedding anniversar>*. HARRY BLANTON is at Missouri Law School; he too is married — to the former Carol Page in February 1959. .As of last report tliey have two children, DAN LAMONT is in the Naw until June, sta­tioned in and around San Diego on the admiral's staff. TONY CAPPETTA is in law school at De-Paul (Chicago); has been married since the summer of 1958; and has one child. 
MIKE CROWE (1(MC Eagle Heights, Madison, Wis.) dropped us a line in Fchruarv- to report thc^. arri\'al of second child and first son, Michael^ Tliomas, on November 25, 1960, Tlic earlier arrix'al, sister Patty, is a year and a half older. The Crowes are living in Madison while Mike is finish­ing work on his PI1.D. in the hi5tor>* of science. In September he will return to Notre Dame, where he will teach in the Great Books program. 
A newspaper clipping from the LaGrangc (111.) Citizen was recently for\*'ardcd to us which reports the wedding in Paris (France) of BILL TWOMEY and Mile. Ttieresc Prcvost. Bill spent a year at the Sorbonne in Paris, and while there met his bride. Tlic Twome\*s returned to the U.S. last fall, and are now living in Santa Monica, Cali­fornia, where Bill is working for Douglas Aircraft. 
BUTCH HAYES wrote from one of the trouble spots of the globe, Bangkok, Tliailand, to send along some news and to correct some items previously reported about him. Butch spent 4 year after graduation, teaching in a high scliool in Nc^v Jersey. Uncle Sam showed an interest in Mr, Hayes in June of '59, so Butch enlisted in the Naii">- and went through O.CS., becoming an ensign. His first tour of duty was spent on the 
PHILADELPHIA—Principals at Universal Notre Dame Night at the Barclay were (from left) Club President Barton B. Johnson, presenting plaque; N.D. Man of the Year Joseplw Novetsky; Bishop Francis J. McSorley, O.M,I., of the Philippines, principal speaker; antf* 
Quentin C Sturm, general chairman. '•'• '"­
staff of Command 14 Pearl Harbor. In October of 1960 he A\-as ordered to the U.S.S. Maury and since 
9ll>^t time has been shipping between Bangkok, Hong Kong, and the Philippines. He hopes to get back to the mainland In June or thereabouts, since he has been overseas for two years. 
Butdi also reports that: the B. J. \V1LHELMS were blessed with a new arrival in February. BERT DeNOURIE is in Louisiana with the Air Force. JOE HALISKI is in Arizona with the Army. BILL SOISSON and wife, Marge, now have three youngs tent. 
JIM INDIVERI writes from Cherry Point, X.C., where he is stationed with the Marine Corps. Jim was married in December of 1958, since which time he has been at Chcrr>' Point (Li. and Mrs. James Indivcri, US.\tC., 10 Fi'ke Dr., Havclock, N.C.). As neighbors on Fike Street, the Indivcris have FRANK McCORMACK and family, and BOB BYRNES and family. Frank is an attack jet pilot, and Bob is a transport pilot. Jim is 
^ a radar intercept controller. Recently while on maneuvers in Puerto Rico, Jim ran into MIKE GLEASO'S at a cock fight. Mike, too, was on maneuvers with the Marines. 
I just came across a Christman card which arrived last December from HANK Zf\XG. I can^t remember whether this information was included in the last column or not, so I will include it in this batch of news an>*\vay in the belief that good news is worth reading even twice. Hank ts work­ing with Radio Station WJBC in Bloomington, Illinois, as a salesman, and is apparently en­joying the bachelor's life. TOM GOZDECKI is controller with a savings and loan association in Ifammond, Indiana. He apparently is getting along very well. ANDY CLARK \\-as married last Au­gust, in Niles, Michigan. STAN TYLER is now promotion and merchandising manager in a beverage distributing 6rm In Muskegon; is married and is 
• the father of a couple of voung Tvlcrs. LEE HINDER5CHIED and his wife have recently had anotJicr addition to their family. DON FOLEY is coaching and tcacliing in East Moline, Illinois. MIKE KERWIN is in Florida, studying law. GENE KERWIN was married last fall in Dallas. JOE FOREMAN is in law school at the University of Toronto. BILL RIES and JOHN KLE.MMER arc located in Chicago and working for the same accounting firms that they had been associated with before their respective stints in the service. .And ED MEELL Is now married and teaching. By the way. Hank Zang's address is 5 U'hitc Place, Bloomington, Illinois. 
EMILE BERNARD writes from Atlanta. In July of '58, Emilc went on active duty with the Ma­rines, 5er\*ing first at Quantico and then in T\vcntyninc Palms, California, where he was as­
^signcd to the anti-aircraft missile battalion. While 
#lher c he ran across ED WARNICKE and JERRY BROW'N. Emile last saw Ed when he stopped by last spring on his way up to Bridgeport, Cali­fornia, where he had been assigned to duty with the Marine cold weather training battalion. Jerr>' was stationed at Twcniynine Palms but was trans­ferred to Haivaii sometime last winter. While at Twentyninc Palms, Emilc dropped in on DON LARIVEE who is working In Pomona with Con­vair. Emilc completed active duty In July of 1960, and enrolled in graduate school at Georgia Tech. in September. At present he is working on his master's degree in nuclear science. Last December, Emile w-as in Detroit where he stopped in to sec GEORGE CONNOLLY and family (and George's sisler-in-Iaw) and reports that Xfr. and Mrs. Connolly arc getting along quite well. Emile can be contacted at Box 992 Georgia Tech, Atlanta 13, Georgia. 
0 BILL QUINL.AN wrote from California (4922 Santa Cruz, San Diego 7, Calif.) In Januar>' to report, among other things, that he was married last December 31. Bill is a h'eutcnant with the Marines, has spent some time in Okinawa and is now stationed in San Diego. He ran into DICK KWAK who is at Camp Pendleton (or u-as last winter) and the t%vo g>Tenes lifted a few brews in toast to old times. Bill also reported that BILL HICKEY «-as married during the past year. The final bit of correspondence for this effort comes from the Chicago Metropolitan Landscaper's Association announcing the appointment of JIM BERRY as e.\ccutivc secretar>- of the organization. Jim's position involves supcr\"islng radio and news­paper publicity, editing tlic association's publication and carr>-Ing on \-arious public relations affairs. Congratulations to Jim. Your secretary is happy to announce that, at 
^long last, he is about to wind up his formal edu­cation. In other words, yours truly will receive Iiis degree from the Notre Dame Law Sdiool in June, 
J. PAUL LOOSEN, '20, Oklahoma City banker and philanthropist named N.D. Man of the Year on that city*s Notre Dame Night, was represented by his son Mike at presentation by Dr. AI Drescher, Club president. 
as will DICK BIES, TO.M CLUSSER.\TH, PAUL COFFEY, JOHN DUNN, ED ILVRDIG, Lr\RRY HOWARD, DA\'E LINK, JACK MARTSELL, ROD .METTE, JAKE MOREL^VND, ED OTOOLE, and ROCCO PUNTURERI. I think it Is safe to say that the consensus among those listed above Is that seven years of schooling is enough. TIic majority of us are looking ahead to militar>' tours of var>*ing lengths — of course there arc those who now have burgeoning families and who can therefore forget about the military-. Among these arc JAKE MOREL^\ND (who has a son and daughter at present and will probably have another addition by the time this is read) D.-VVE LINK (who now has a son and daughter) and I^\RRY HOWARD. Incldenially, JAKE MORELj\ND Is now a contributor to the ALUM­NUS columns, baring taken over the reporting for the Law Class of 1961. Your secretary is con­sidering enlistment In tlie .-Vir Force Judge .Ad­vocate General program If his draft board doesn't get him first — a distinct possibility. 
That is about It for another issue, but before signing off I would like to make an announce­ment of importance. Due to the great success of the impromptu reunion which we organized after the Michigan State game last tally we plan a repeat performance for next fall. For this year we have selected the Northwestern game on Octo­ber 28. With this advance billing we arc hoping for an even better turnout than enjoyed last year. So when ticket applications come around this summer, remember to plan for a visit on October 28 — Northwestern. Further news will, of course, be forthcoming. Well, that's Jt for now. Have a pleasant summer and drop us a line. 
From the Alumni Office: 
The Class' only college president, Grad School classmate FATHER BRL-VN EG.\X; O.S.B., just got out of the fr>ing pan and Into the fire. Presi­dent of St. Bernard's and one of Alabama's "out­standing young men." Father Brian was succeeded by St. Ed's President BROTHER Rf\V.MO.\D FLECK, G.S.C., '51, as chainnan of the southern regional unit of the National Catholic Educational fVssn., only to be elected to the board of trustees of the National Conference of Christians and Jews. 
Army 1st Lt. GER.-ILD L. l^^ETZEL got his paratrooper wings at Ft. Benning. Ga. .At last reading he and Glencllc were in Hiintville, Ala. 
1959 
Dennis M. Nead 6121 Robison Rd. Cincinnati, Ohio 

Once again It Is time to sit down with the typcttTitcr and bang out some of the latest news that I have received through letters and talking 
to some of flie classmates. Many thanks to those 
who have sent me notes about themselves and their 
friends of the Class of *59. A belated St. Patricks 
day and Easter greeting to all. Speaking on behalf 
of the Class officers and members, I u-ish to ex­
press my sincere regret to JOHN P. EDWARDS 
on the recent death of ihs father. The folloW" 
ing IS neu's since the last issue: 
Traveling secretaries in baseball, in most cases, 
arc older men but Charles Finley, Chicago In­
vestment man who Is the new owner-president of 
the Kansas City Athletics, has chosen JIMMY 
SCHA.AF to tackle his ne^v job of traveling secre­
tary for a major league baseball club. The trans­
portation business together with the challenge of 
the work were Jim's basic reasons for accepdng 
the job. Hope your new job will be as prosperous 
to you OS the .Army and Oklahoma football games 
In 1957. 
Congratulations to Barbara and JOHN FREV 
on the new arn\'al, Barbara Lynn, bom Octo­
ber IS, 1960. 
JOSEPH J. BAIRLEY has entered the order of 
Trapplst-Cisterclan monks and Is at the Abbey 
of Our Lady of Gethsemani (Kentucky). Joe is 
known as FRATER M. L.AMBERT, 0.C5.0 . He 
spent the smnmer of 1959 traveling throughout 
Europe and the fall in the West. He entered the 
Abbey in September, 1960­
JOHN FOCimL\N is In his 2nd year of med 
school at Loyola in Chicago. For the last two 
summers his Interests have pointed to professional 
golf teaching at Walloon Lake Golf Course in 
Petoske>-, Michigan. 
PETE and Sandy H.ACKETT recently brought 
twins into the world where business is jumpin' in 
Springfield, Ohio. 
JIM DOYLE Is attending graduate school at 
Boston College and u-as one of eight successful 
applicants in the nation to qualify under a federal 
grant (Office of Vocational Rehabilitation, Dcpt. 
of H.E.W.) for graduate study leading to a 
masters degree in education (peripateleg>0- The 
course began in June, I960, and will be com­
pleted in September, 1961. It is the first of its 
kind anywhere In the *vorld. TIic trainees or stu­
dents will earn 36 credits In the 14 month course 
designed to teach mobility restoration to the blind. 
Congratulations to Sue and HARRY McKEE on 
their newborn Harry III, as of 3 October, 1960. 
Received a nice letter trom BOB JOHNSTON 
^vho is the assistant manager of special projects 
for the Milwaukee Association of Commerce. Bob 
will be married In July to an Australian girl and 
plans to have HERB RIBAND and JOHN MORAN 
in the \\edding party. 
JLM.MY JUST has finished Army obligations 
and is employed with the A. O. Smith Corp. and 
training in Slilu-aukee. 
.Army foolishness Is also over for ROBERT 
WETOSKA after a successful season with the 
Bears. His Army training came in handy, though, 
because he later apprehended a burglar In his 
hotel room In Chicago; poor fellow obviously 
should have been foreu-amcd about the N.D. Bear. 
JIM DUL.AN is a second John at Ft. Lee, Virginia, as are JOHN MORAN and GEORGE SPAHN at Ft. .Meade, Maryland. 
JIM HUGHES is studying law at Georgetown and is giring it quite a go (he was a finalist In the National Moot Court competition and he is also in the top percentile In his class). JOE BOL.AND is working for the IVhcelabrator Corp. in Mishawaka and doing quite well for himself. HERB RIB.AND is attending the University of PennsyK'ania I.aw School (his wife presented him with a baby girl Last June). 
BILL McADAM contemplates marriage after he gets his Ph.D. In engineering from Northwestern. PHIL ECKHART is in the top ten per cent of his class at Marquette University I.aw School. 
MIKE ST. PETER is thinking of making the Marines a career (talk to ^LARK SHIELDS about this first, Mike). WARREN ALBRIGHT is a Fuller Brush rep. in Indianapolis. 
RICK GRIMLER is an accountant in Chicago and TOM CARROL is pushing pills and mer­diandlse for Procter and Gamble. 
It was good to hear from TIM McG.ARVEY, who is working for AmP Incorporated: Last .April Tim was given a traveling job as an assistant product manager and has been to the West Coast among many other places. He now has a perma­nent assignment there as a district sales engineer. A wedding is planned In April of '61 to ^fiss Mary Ann Cummins. 
BARRAT GLEIXNER and BILL DALTON, both in the Naxy now, dropped in from Newport, Rhode Island, and I met them for a few belts ID the Moulin- Rouge in 'downtown .-Boston. Barrat 
Noire, Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 49 
\^'as to soon return to the mrd, while Bill is complctins basic school. 
FRANK BETTENDORF is sales manager of the Barnes Cleaners chain in Dcs Moines, Iowa. JOE BELKELJA is a law student at Gcorsctown Univ. MILAM JOSEPH is in the Seminary at Catholic University in D.C. 
KEVIN BURKE is with Arthur Anderson in Chicago and JOHN DOXO\^AX is employed «iih the Chicago Stock Exchange. 
Sorin*5 best lineman and lover "at heart," JOHN MADDEN was recently wed in Chicago. The lucky young lady 1 am unaware of at this time. Believe John was also recently discharged from the Coast Guard. 
JOE HARRISO.V is teaching in the department of political science at the Univ. of Tennessee. After this year Joe will join the .Air Force whh some hope of teaching at the .Academy. CHET BROUSS.ARD quit the scminarj- and is presently in the Texas National Guard. LARRY STUART is married and in Texas Med SchooL DOUG GON­ZALES is at LSU Law School. RON P.ARKER is in the Air Force but docs design work at home without the uniform: tough life and you can't beat JS-ing can you, Ron? TERRV LA.MB as far as I know is in .-Maska for a little .Armv duty, t»hJIe T^* HAYES keeps the Fort Ord PX'S wiped out of their beer stock. 
1960 
John F- Geier 715 La Crosse Avenue WImette, Illinois 
From the Alumni Office: 
Cleveland's Higbce Company announced "with great pleasure" the recent promotions of P.ATRICK McGINLEY and ALFRED ZLMMER to the posi­tion of assistant buyer. Tlic personnel department praised the training thcx- had received at X.D. It should be tailor-made, with Higbec President JOHN P. .MURPHY, '12, a member of the X.D. lay trustees. 
Mrs. JON W. S.MITH (the former Sally Dris­coU) wrote in from 1814 West Orangc\vood .Av., Phoenix, Ariz., to recap ihc past vcar's activities: 
were married in Hannibal, ^lo., on June 25, and following a hone>-moon in the Lake of the Ozarks region wc traveled to Phoenix, where we are now making our home. Jon was employed as creative ^i-riting manager for Owens and .As­sociates, ^ an advertising agcno', for six months, and he is now working in tlie public relations de­partment of the Del. E. Webb Corporation. 
"It might be of interest to know that Jon did a great deal of publidty work for the Notre Dame Glee Club*s Easter concert here, sponsored by the local alumni club, 
"Early in the fall We ^vcre quite plcasantlv surprised to find GREGORY ST. RO^LAIN at­tending the American Institute of Foreign Trade just outside of Phoenix. 
"Currently wc arc lookins fon^-ard to the birili of a future Notre Dame alumnus, sclicduled to arrive around April 29th. 
"Wc enjoy the .ALUMNUS and look for^rard to reading it cadi issue. Best wishes to all the friends at Notre Dame.'* 
1961 
Nick Palinich 
34 Dartmouth Road 
West Orange, N. J. 
Dame ALUMNUS. I hope it u-ill provide you 
not only with a valuable source of information 
concerning the activities of your present dassmates^ 
but also a never ending lie between you and 
Notre Dame. 
My esteemed roommate, one DAVID "OLLIE" McCANN, has told me that he intends to return to the East Coast where he will take law at Geoj^clown. BOB FISHER, of Phoenix, (Arizona) fame, has been accepted at both Michigan and Georgetown, but will probablv study law at the latter. J.ACK GENTEMPO is looking for em­pIo>Tncnt with the Ray Vogue School in Chicago, but if this job falls through he will probably spend the summer in Europe. .A partial sdiolarship to law sdiool at the Universitv of Virginia has been granted to BERNARD "FENN" DOBR.AN­SKI. I asked JACK MITCHELL the other day what his plans %\'crc after graduation and Jic told me his only definite plans are "to keep the ball low; in there." ART ARMENTO, the .Alpine flash, will enter the Marines at Quantlco, \^rginia. soon after graduation. He had formerly planned to do graduate work at Iowa, but this fell through. 
JOHN KEEG.AN, Student Body president, plans to study law at Georgelown. Tliis wjH please a New Jcrscv giri bv the name of Diane Quigley. JERRY "WHEELS" McNXMARA will be married on June 24tli to Miss Connie Taubcr of Decatur, Illinois. Mac also intends lo work for Murphy, TurnbuII, and Jones, accounting firm in Dcaiiur. BOB COYLE «ill studv law at Catholic Univer­sity, Washington, D.C. ROGER McM.AHON told me he was still undecided, but that marriage plans were definitely in the near future. He will probably end up being Notre Dame's answer to Shdly Bcrman. JACK CHRISTI.AN intends to tvork for Richardson Engineering of Nc^v Jersey, or one of its subsidiaries. He also intends to marr\' Miss Helen Louis Richardson in September. 
Tlie number one man. MIKE "JU.AX" BREN­N.AN, has to return lo Noire Dame for another semester, after wlu'di he will attend dental school. Returning with him will be TED ROM.ANOWSKI, DON RIG.ALI, JACK CASTIN, .AL JOHEXGEN, CHARLIE CAYCE, and MIKE FARRAR. 
If the offer is right, D.AN H.AGEX would like to play professional baseball. JOHN "G.AVONE" SANF.ACON is heading for Columbia University, ^vliere he ivill do s^^^^^lc ^*'ork in Frcnch. CH.ARLIE LEXXON will return to Xotre Dame for graduate work in education. The Pittsburgh Stcders of the N.F.L. have drafted MO POTTIOS and RED MACK; both intend to play with them. BOB SaARPITTO, recently married to Louise Sauers of Rahway, New Jersey, is going to play professional football with the San Diego Chargers of the new A.F.L. Former basketball captain BILL CROSBY, has been drafted by Chicago of the new .American Basketball League, but will probably play out on the west coast for Honolulu. He also intends to marr>' Miss Nanc>- Decbs of Xut­ley, Ne%%- Jersey, on June 24, 1961. 
PAT McIN*TYRE has been a\%-arded a full grant 

scholarship to the Maxwell Business School of Syracuse University. FRANK GARGUILO will _ marry Eugenia Dc Martino of West New York, V New Jersey, on Oct. 7, 1961. Instead of com­muting from Soutii Bend to North Bergen, Nciv Jersey, Frank will commute from Ft. Monmouth to North Bergen this summer. JOHN "RED" BOWLING will also be with Frank this summer at Ft. Monmouth. DICK 0'LE.ARY will enter pilot training school and the Air Force for five years immediately after graduation. Following him will be BILL HALL, *iho also lias marriage plans with Miss Pat Hanlev for around February- of 1962. Bill's roommate GEORGE LESNICK will also take the marriage vows this summer. Dorothy Ingram of BrookK*n. Ne^v York is the girl. 
TON'Y "HARRY" .MUSA is heading for Southern Illinois where he will lake graduate work in teaching. UARMEN "BUTCH" CEVILLA is go­ing to Kansas City, to stay. Bob Yario who only completed three years at Notre Dame is in medical school at Illinois. I talked to CHARLIE^ LE ROSE and he told me he was going to work for Uncle Louie in Chicago. 
ARNIE LEPORATI %vill assist the "Major" at the big ball park this summer. JAMES "MOUSE" McKEE\'TR told me he was going to spend his summer doing crossword puzzles in the \"illage. 
Marriage is in store for JOHN MAY and Sancy Haas of Radnc, Wisconsin. Tlie dale is Aug. 19, I9GI. >feanwhi!c John will be working for Haskins and Sells in Chicago. His roommate FRANK "CHICK" Annese intends to work with the SyK-ania Corporation in S>Tacti5e, N.V., after graduation. Tliincs look prettv certain for the future of TO.M SMITH of Alumni Hall and Mao-Lou Roberts of Racine, Wisconsin, although noth­ing definite has been planned. Another member of the clan from Alumni, Jx\CK SKUPIEX, has marriage plans for September with Miss Rita Nellis of Chicago. Jack's dose friend. FRED ^ RALPH, plans on graduate work in electrical en-" ginccring for the future. On June 6. D.AN MITCHELL and Maureen Bright, a South Bend girl, will take vows. 
The "terrible three" from the second floor of Sorin arc breaking up after graduation. JERRY .McGRATH is going into the Army, JOHN Mc-NA\L\RA will study law at the U. of Michigan, and GEORGE VORIS will do craduaie work in business at the U. of Chicago. JIM THIELE of Sorin Hall is going to study at Wisconsin's Grad­uate Sdiool of Business. CHRIS LUND will also be at Wisconsin, where he received a feUo\vship to do graduate work in English. 
My next door neighbor in Sorin, JIM 0'LE.ARY, plans to attend graduate school at Notre Dame where he will study English. His roommate, JOE KE.\TING, is headed for medical sdiool at thc^ University of Illinois. Jim Kane, former capiaiii^'' of the WTestling squad, plans to teach high school in Park Forest, Illinois. Tlie "Clifton Comet," ROGER F.ARDIN, is looking forward to grad­uate work in business at Seton Hall University. 
(Ed. Note: Fireballcr NICK PALINICH is now on the mound. He'll put 'cm where >-ou A*-ant *em ROME—Cardinal Ritter of St. Louis is awarded his certificate of Eminent Afcmbership 
if you gi\*e the signal to the address above. J.L.) 

in the Notre Dame Alumni Club of the Eternal City by Joseph MartcUaro, '56, of the 
To the men of the graduating dass of '61: This is the first of an extended series of artides 

N.D. economics faculty; looking on (from left) are Royce Hughes, '60, and Gordoifl) Hitidi Hill appear in this column, in the Notre IMRenzo, '57, of the University's sodology department. 
SO Notre Dame Alumnus^ June, 2961 

MIKE MESSINA and DANNY FUSCO plan on law school after sraduation. They haven't picked 
4^he!r school as yet. JOHN TULLY also is headed for law school at the University of Michigan. TOM BRANMGAN, of St. Marl's fame, is study­ing law here at Notre Dame. His old roommate DAVE WILLIAMS will be stud^-ing business at Wharton in the Fall. RAV "CHIEF" VALES will stay near home and attend btisiness 'school at Columbia. 
The Lone Star State will be even bigger and better when DAN GRIFFITH goes down there to teach in Killeen, Tctas. PAT KEARNEY and MIKE NASH will attend law school somewhere in the Chicago Area. I tailed to JACK NEBEL, and he said he was working for Montgomery Ward in Detroit. I asked him what brother Bill was doing and he told me that Bill was going to sell fish in -Mt. Clemens, .Michigan. DENNY PETRILLO will work for Pctrillo Bros. Construc­tion Co. in Wilmington, Delaware. He had origi­
^kially planned to go into business with a former 
^'otr e Dame student, BOB MATTHEWS. Senior Class President PAT NEE plans to do graduate work near home in New England. After four years of mental exertion from hitting the books, ROY REGAN win now get the physical treatment when he enters the Marines in September. CHUCK SCHULER is looking towards a bright future with 
M.W. In his spare time he will attend law school at Micliigan. 
Tlie following fellows will attend law school; BOB WEBER and DAVE O'CONNOR, North­western; DAVE McOONALD, Virginia; BERNIE CRAIG, University of Notre Dame; TERRY .MARTIN, Virginia; TOM RO.MANS, Pennsylvania; DELANCY DAVIS, Georgetown; BILL SALLA, Rutgers; TOM ZIPPRICH, Northwestern; MICK CRYSTAL, St. Louis; JOHN FL.ANIGAN, Duke; DENNY OWENS, DePaul; JOHN DEMARG.ASSO, 
^I. M CUNEO, and JERRY S.MITH, California; 
•jO E WILLIA.MS, Minnesota; DAVE HIPP, Illi­nois; JIM BANG, Northwestern; CHARLEY SACHER (on fellowship), N'otre Dame; JOE BRYAN, Ohio State; JIM NACK, .Michigan; DAt'E WOCHER, Illinois; and EARL .MOSSNER, Detroit. 
Tlie toUowtng fellows will attend business school: PAUL NISSI, Boston University; JOE MARTINO and JOE PIETRUS, Wharton School of Business, 
YOU CAN HELP 
NOTRE DAME 
BY Sending a personal contribution Submitting names of friends inter­
ested in the University 
Advising N.D. Foundation Office if your company has a 'plan of giving* Informing University of your cor­
poration's 'areas of interest' 
Remembering the University in your Will or Bequest Contributing gifts other than money 
(i.e. paintings, equipment, books, etc.) 
Naming the University as a benefici­ary in your insurance policy 
Listing names and addresses of Foun­dations in your community 
UNivEKsrrv OF NOTRE DAUE FOUNDATION, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

CONNECTICUT VALLEY—Notre Dame Night in the Hartford area saw N.D. Man­of-thc-Ycar award presented to Kevin J. Brennan (left), West Hartford, non-alum­nus honored for outstanding work as a Catholic layman, by John F. Robinson, '28. 
of Pennsyh'ania; MIKE \\'HITE on a General Electric Fellowship, Ohio State; MIKE GEDDES, Har\'ard University; RON ZWEDA with an as­sistantship. Illinois; DAN CHMIEL, Columbia; GEORGE BOTT, Syracuse; VINCE QUINN, Wharton School, Pennsylvania; RED JONES and .MICK RYAN Northwestern; and J.ACK WHITAKER, University of Kansas. 
These fellows will spend the next few years with the Army: PHIL FARLEY will be at Ft. Benjamin Harrbon fur six months; MARK KIL­DUFF, Ft. Kno.x, st\ months; STAN .MEIHAUS, Ft. Abcrdien, Md., in for two years; MARTY OECRE, Ft. .McClellan, six months; JOE BLAKE, entering O.C.S.; KEN KUPPER, Ft. Benning, Georgia; TO.M ROPERS, Ft. Bliss; DICK DOR­GAN and JOHN DIAZ, .M.P. school at Ft. Gordon, Virginia; DICK PIGOT, PAT FEENEY and JACK GRACE, Ft. Benjamin Harrison, In­diana; PAUL FLEMING, Ft. Knox, six months; DAVE and JAY KILROY, Ft. Jackson, South Carolina; JOE LIBBY, Ft. Benning. Georgia; MIKE SAMMON, Ft. Lee. Virginia; BILL STEBER, Ft. Eustis; and ART BARILLE, Ft. Knox. 
The Navy will entertain BOB McCUTCHEON for four years. He will start at the University of Georgia Xavv- Supply School. PETE CROTTY will be with the Navy at Norfolk, Virginia. BILL BRODERICK Mill be at San Diego, Calif., and ED CHEW at naval O.C.S. in Neiiport, Rliode Island. TIM HINCHEY is going to Long Beach, Calif., and DON HICKEY to naval flight school at Pensicola. Fla. 
WALLY JONES is joining the Coast Guard, and JOHN JULIANO «-ill spend the next few years with the Air Force. Prospective Marines are: DAVE RIA.N, RAY KELLY, DICK BIL­LE.AUD, NICK FERLAZZO, PETE SCHIPA, TO.M DePRAETORO, BILL WELCH, J.P. KEN­NY, ED ABEL, GEORGE BRE.\NAN, FR.ANK McGUANE, TIM KEOUGH, TOM GEIL. JAY CUNNINGH.A.M is going to .Marine flight school at Pensicola, Fla. 
JERRY WHELAN has a choice of working for cither Hailrod Zcrox of Rochester, N.Y. or the Carrier Corp. of Syracuse. He has not de­cided between the two. BOB KUNZLER will do graduate work in Oceanography at Florida State 
U. DOUG .MACLEOD is going to teach high school in Chicago. PAUL DeROSA will attend medical school at Indiana U. His roommate JOHN WILSON will do grad work in biodiemistry at Illinois. The South Bend lover, BILL NOO.VAN, will return to Notre Dame for another semester. "OZ" SMITH has a job lined up with the advertising sales department of the Chicago Tribune. RON LA RE.\U will go into the distributorship of Hamm's Beer in Kankakee, Illinois. DICK BALLOT has a job with Arthur Young and Co., public accountants in New York City. TOM CORCORAN will attend graduate school at the 
U. of Illinois, where he will study one year of history and then law. JIM LEFERE will work for steel division of Ford in Dearborn. JIM VERDICK has a job with Arthur Young and Co., a C.P.A. firm ia Chicago. RON SCHUBEBT wiU attend metlical school at Western Reserve m Cleveland, and his roonunate JD I EHRMAN will study electrical engineering at Notre Dame. BOB HETZLER win enter the Air Force in January of '62. JAY WHITNEY has been picked to work in the Atfmiral Rickover program after giadtu­tion. TOM RYAN will go immediately into the SMy. MIKE "SMOKY" BAER is looking for a high school teaching and coaching job, preferably back east. Last but not least, BARRY SCHUNE is returning to Syracuse, where PAT MdNTYRE plans to do gradtute work; so that sector of the country will be well taken care of. 
As for myself, I am trying to cboose between the army, a business career and professional base­ball. For the rest of the men of the class of *61 who find themselves imdecided and imable to make a choice of alternatives, I can give only this advice, "Take two and hit to right." 
Low Class of 1961 
John N. Mordand 27<B Vctvflle, Box 602 Notre DamCy Indiana 

Since this column is beins written in March, there is no news to pass on to yoiL But I did w-ant to let you know that we liave a gatfaerins place for news of the class and its members after June 4, and to encourage you, your wife, secretary, or other ghost writer to keep us informed of your whereabouts, activities, etc. 
Speaking of graduation, I am just assuming "that you will be there, that I will be there, and that we will be there together-"* I also hope to be out of Vetville by the time the next issue goes to press and to have a new address. Until then, send the news to Notre Dame. It will be a plug for the iinn or other employer as well as keeping us informed. 
''Good luck, and my best wishes for a pleasant summer."­
1.
 Lives and I.oves of John Donne (Dunn), p. 34. 

2.
 Words and Phrases (Also referred to as Clidies and Time-worn Adages), Vol. I, p. 1. 


ATTENTION JOURNALISTS, COAAMUNICATION ARTISTS 

Journalism and Communication Arts alumni are asked to write to Prof. Thomas J. Stritch, Head of the Department, about their present jobs and families. 
Prof. Stritch is projecting a news­letter containing an alimoni directory for summer issue, if his request for information meets a good response. Alimmi have been circularized ac­cording to the Department's current 61e of addresses, but Prof. Stritch says these are incomplete. 
Aliunni are asked to remind one another to write to the Department Head, and to pass the word of the newsletter along to those who might otherwise miss it Mr. Stritch said that the Department hopes to make this the directory most nearly com­plete of those issued in the past. 
Since 1947 the Department of Journalism, renamed the Department of Communicatian Arts in 1957, has issued its directory and newsletter every five years. 
ffotre Dame Alumnus, June, 1961 _ 51 
The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
Dear Fellow Aliunni: 

In eveiy phase of business life today, we hear and read much about the '"Corporate Image." In the continual daily battle for the dollar — and with due respect for the necessity of this pursuit — we sometimes lose sight of the Image of Notre Dame as we knew it during our undergi'aduate years. 
The Alumni, for the most part, have a curiosity about the type of students that are at­tending Notre Dame today. Prior to my election to the Alumni Board — I had the opportu­nity to visit the campus only for Reunions and occasional football games. Always in die back of my mind was this curiosity about the students of today. Most Alumni have cherished with a gieat deal of respect the nationally known phrase "The Spirit of Notre Dame." It is only nat­ui-al to wonder if tliere is continuing at Notre Dame the same devotion to Our Lady — the same loyalties to the priests — the professors — the team — and all tlie other facets that compose the institution of Notre Dame. 
Having served with the Alumni Board for the past few years, and liaving the opportunity to view Notre Dame through the eyes of my own sons — I can tell you that all of these quali­ties are present in the students today. There is an absence of new tradition in the sense of the ti-adition of Rocknc and others — but this is true in all Universities. Since 'World War II, there has been a change in the t)'pe of tradition. Looking into the future, the new traditions of Notre Dame will be the .Atomic Energ)' Radiation Laborator>' — Lobund, etc. Certainly, the "ine.\o­rable passage of time" has developed new and important changes in the Image of Notre Dame. 
The complications of life — and quite often the distance to South Bend — make it diffi­cult for many Alumni to visit the campus. For those of you who have not had the opportu­nitj' to attend a recent Reunion, I would like to recommend that you plan your family vacation so that Notre Dame will be one of the main objectives of this summer's trip. If you do this — you will find that the Grotto is covered with the same gieener)' — that the trees are larger — that die campus itself is a more beautiful place — tliat Our Lady still embraces all M'ho come to visit — and that die "Spirit of Notre Dame" — as you knew it — is as strong, or stronger, than ever before. 
Best wishes from all die members of the Alumni Board. 
Sincerely, 

cz>^-y'^-^^^-^'P't-''^'^ 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS 








