The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
|5|Mtiimitmiiii iiiiiiiii iiiiiitiiiit •iiiiiiiiii I ,.Q 
IN THIS ISSUE 
U. N. D. Night Frontispiece President's Bzoadcast Leads U. N. D. Night 227 Frederick P. Kenkel Laetare Medallist 230 Religious Report Sent to Alumni 232 Glee Club in Hippodrome 233 A Message From President Eggeman 234 Another Successful Debating Season 235 Suggested Reading in Commerce, by Dean J. B. McCarthy 237 Facts and Figures, by Neil Hurley, '32 238 Living Endowment—(A Serial) 239 Nominees for 1930-31 2-10 
Women's Club Page_ 242 Athletics, by John Kiener, '32 244 The Alumni 245 
The magazine is published monthly durin? the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The aTinnwl alumni dues of ¥5.00 include a year's subscription to THB ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923. at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, X897. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBER OP THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor HARLEY MCDEVITT, '29, Advertising Mgr. 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, General Secretwry 
ALUMNI BOARD 
MARK M. FOOTE, '73 Honorary President JOHN W . EGGEMAN, '00 President JAMES E . DEEBY, '10 Vice-President JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary WALTER DUNCAN, '12 Treasurer ALFRED C. EYAN, '20 Director GEORGE M. MAYPOLE, '03 Director 
M. HARRY MILUX, '10 -Director 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 Director DON M. HAMILTON, '12 (eas officio) Director 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMQ 

BlIltUIIIIMIIilllMIIIII • IllllUllllli Illlllllllllll tlllllllllllilltlllllliiHIl 
Comment 

It would be like that! 
In an effort to get the April ALUM­NUS circulated well before Universal Notre Dame Night, it went to press exactly on the deadline, April 5. As a result, the Class Notes are minus three unusually fine contributions this month—Leo Ward for '20, Kid Ashe for '22 and Ed De Clercq for '27. Also a special from Fr. Moriarty, '10. 
A meeting of the Alumni Board was held April 5, to speed along Com­mencement and the various Associa­tion projects. 
The Monogram Absurdities • were fine this year, April 3, 4 and o. 
FORT WAYNE We are pleased to report to you that Universal Notre Dame night, April 21st, will be celebrated by our local club with a banquet held at the Catholic Community Center in our city. The Board of Governors are making an especial effort to have a large crowd of Notre Dame men in attendance. The Board expects to have about 75 membei-s present. There are more than 75 Notre Dame men in this city and over 40 of them have already signified their intention of being present. The Board of Gov­ernors have worked out the follow­ing program: Banquet—Community Center. Toastmaster—Frank M. Hogan. Duty of an Alumnus—C. Byron Hayes. Reminiscences—Dr. J. M. Dinnen. At the Piano—^Thomas Hayes. Election of representative to the annual meeting of the Alumni Asso­ciation. Listening over radio — Father O'Donnell's address from WGN. Election of Oflicers for the local club. The members of the Fort Wayne-Notre Dame club always enjoy them­selves immensely when congregated, and with Tom Hayes at the piano, and the crowd singing the "Victory March," the "Hike Song" and other Notre Dame songs not so well known, revives the old college spirit. We are all anxiously waiting the festivities that are in store for us on Universal Notre Dame Night, and we are "certain that the enjoyment and festivities will far exceed any Uni­versal Notre Dame Night of the past. 
B" 
IIMIUIMKIMHlQ 
••••l)tlii)iiiii«iiiilllllllMllltliilll<)*>l<l)llttiitilltllilll)liiltlllll)illll)ll 

April 21! Celebrate! Remember Notre Dame! 
Seventh Annual Universal Notre Dame Night Must Set New Records! 
Wherever you go, whatever you do, as the current song-hit has it, we want you to know we're following you. Notre Dame is interested in your development. There is too much distrust of this. The primary purpose of a religious institution is to develop the soul for its own salvation. The secondary purpose is the development of sound mind and body. The third and essential burden of such an institution is the maintenance of a suffiicient personnel and plant to achieve its other objectives. This is the order of Notre Dame's interest in you. Bear this in mind when you are commemorating the yeai's you 
•pent on the campus. 

Notre Dame has not failed you. On this one Night of the year when Notre Dame men everywhere are remembering, don't fail Noti'e Dame. 
The Club news in this issue shows that, the "old guard" are going to be in there with the old spii-it. It's the "new guard" we want to see in the May issue reports. 
CLUBS Momence, 111. UNIVERSAL! Ottawa, HI. 
Albany, N. Y. 

Peoria, 111. Akron, O. Manila, P. L Robinson, 111. Arkansas Paris, France Springfield, 111. 
Buffalo, N. Y. Montreal, Canada Woodstock, HI. Boston, Mass. Shanghai, China Anderson, Ind. Chicago, 111. Pilatos, Cuba 
Decatur, Ind. 
Calumet Region Arequipa, Peru. Evansville, Ind. Cleveland, 0. Havana, Cuba Kokomo, Ind. Cincinnati, O. Rome, Italy Peru, Ind. Central Ohio Dacca, Bengal Vincennes, Ind. 
Connecticut Valley Mexico City Terra Haute, Ind. 
Daj'ton, 0. Monterey, Mexico Dubuque, Iowa Denver, Colo. San Juan, Porto Rico Mason City, Iowa Deti-oit, Mich. Cartagena, Colombia Sioux City, Iowa 
Des Moines, Iowa Bay City, Mich. Dist. of Columbia Grand Rapids, Mich. Erie, Pa. Rochester, N. Y. Flint, Mich. 
Rock River Valley Jackson, Mich. 
Fox River Valley St. Joseph Valley Kalamazoo, Mich. 

Fort WajTie, Ind. 

St. Louis, Mo. Lansing, Mich. Hamilton, O. Southwestern Texas Ludington, Mich. Hiawatha Land SjTacuse and Centi'al N. Y. Pontiac, Mich. 
Houston, Texas Toledo, O. Saginaw, Mich. Intermountain Tri-Cities Duluth, Minn. Indianapolis, Ind. Twin Cities Fergus Falls, Minn. Joliet, 111. Wabash Valley Vicksburg, Miss. Kansas City, Mo. Western Pennsylvania Chapel Hill, N. C. Kentucky Western Washington Grand Forks, N. D. Louisiana-Miss. Women's Club (several) Tiffin, 0. Los Angeles, Calif. Youngstown, O. Grafton, Pa. Memphis, Tenn. Harrisburg, Pa. Milwaukee, Wis. Kane, Pa. Montana Reading, Pa. 
UNORGANIZED 

Nashville, Tenn. Sioux Falls, S. D. Nebraska Tucson, Ariz. Beaumont, Texas New Jersey Miami, Fla. Dallas, Texas City of New York Rome, Ga. Charleston, W. Va. 
Northern California Boise, Idaho Weston, W. Va. 
Oklahoma Aurora, HI. LaCrosse, Wis. Philadelphia, Pa. Elgin, HI. Rawlins, Wyo. 
La Salle, HI. 
Portland, Ore. 

(Out of the above, there should be no less than 100 meetings!) 
•tllllMMItll<nMtllllllilltllltlllltlMnMtt»inl>»"lllllt»»>"l<l"ll"<lliilMMIIMi llltIMM 
ilintlllltilllllll 
"H 



TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Volume VII. APRIL, 1930 No. 8 
President's Broadcast Leads U, N, D. Night 
R
ADIO station WGN, the Chi­cago Tribune station on the Drake Hotel, with Quin Ryan presiding, will broadcast a Notre Dame program on Easter Monday Night, April 21, the Seventh Annual Universal Notre Dame Night, begin­ning at 9 o'clock, central standard time, and lasting a half hour. (Wave length, 416.4' meters, frequency 720 kilocycles.) 
Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '06, president of the University, ^vill deliver an address as the feature of the program. 
The program will open with a march played by the combined or­chestras of the station, and will lead without pause to the singing of the Notre Dame "Victory March"—that national triumph of the Brothers Shea—by a vocal group assembled for the purpose. There will be ac­companiments for the double or­chestra. 
A prominent alumnus (yet to be selected at press time) will introduce Father O'Donnell, who will speak for some fifteen minutes. 
The remainder of the half hour will be taken up with the singing of "Down the Line" and "Hike Notre Dame"—contributions to the Notre Dame musical library from the tal­ented pens of Messi's. Casasanta and Fagan. 
The program is one of a series of "Universities of Chicagoland." All Notre Dame organizations are urged to prepare ahead of time to insure reception of the program. 
The Twin Cities Club is also an­ticipating a broadcast from its dance at the Woman's Club, -Minneapolis, sometime around midnight, central time, from either WCCO or KSTP. 
ALBANY 

Francis X. Disney, Jr., president of the Notre Dame Club of the Capitol District, writes that his business keeps him in New York City most of the time but that Gerry Lyons is making an effort to organize for the Night. Such is the local confidence in Gerry's efforts, that the ALUM­NUS urges all N. D. men who are or will be near Albany to get in touch with Gerry at once. 
BOSTON 

The Notre Dame Club of Boston has made arrangements for a dinner dance on Universal Notre Dame night to be held at the Hotel Bruns­wck in Boston. All N. D. men in school near Boston are cordially in­vited to participate in the activities 
REV. CH.AKLES L. O'DONNELL, C.S.C. 
President of the University 

of the Club. Hugh F. Blunt, 106 Main St., Brockton, is president of the organization. 
BUFFALO 

The ALUMNUS got out too soon last month to recount the Buffalo Club's hospitality to the Notre Dame backfield relay team which defeated Biffy Lee's fast U. of Buffalo back­field quartet in a special race there. The Club took the boys to the Falls, had a party with the U. of B. boys included, at the Statler, attended a basketball game at the U. of B., crashed the U. of B. senior dance and closed with a special party for the boys. Ed Lutz, president, is given credit for the arrangements. 
No word, but this precedent, and the history of the organization guar­antee an equally big Night on the 21. 
CENTRAL OHIO Ray J. Eichenlaub is assembling the N. D. men in Central Ohio for 
their annual observance of the Night. Eich didn't send any details, but he's made tooo many touchdowns to need details to put him across. 
CHICAGO Chicago was the unfortunate vic­tim, in one way, of dual traditions that crossed each other on the wrong night. The Chicago undergraduates have a traditional Easter formal that provides a nucleus for their holiday social life and for that of the hun­dreds of undergrads who do not go to distant homes for the Easter vaca­tion. The 21st was the only date available Similarly, the traditional Night of the Club is a stag dinner of an informal nature. It was obvious that any combination would lose in­terest from one side or the other. Because of the size of both organiza­tions, a visit of President Frank Fitzsimmons and his three trusty sub-officers, Jim Martin, Jim Ronan and Cliff Noonan, to the campus Club determined a joint observance of the Night by which plan each or­ganization is proceeding with its original plans. 
Irv Corcoran, '28, talented com­poser and vocalist, is chairman of the alumni gathering. Details were not available at press time, but everyone in the Chicago District is requested to look them up for their own merits. 
DETROIT The following officers were elected for 1930 by the Detroit Club at a meeting the evening of March 13, at the Cosmopolitan Club: President—Alfred N. Slaggert. Vice-President—Clark Mahoney. Secretary—Charles O. Molz. Treasurer—Urban Hubert. The following were elected to the board of governors: Edward Weeks, Harry F. Kelly, John T. Higgins, Don P. O'Keefe and John Moore. The meeting voted to reduce dues, which previously have been $5 a year. For men who have been out of school more than five years, dues will be ?4 a year; for those out less than five years, $2 a year. The policy of the club toward its scholarship program was reaffirmed. Detroit, therefore -vnll continue to 
send tAvo students to Notre Dame 
under a scholarship arrangement. 
The board of governors will act as a 
scholarship committee, selecting can­
didates and supervising the mainte­
nance of the club's funds. 
It was announced that a football 
ticket committee had been appointed 
to confer at Notre Dame on the dis­
tribution of tickets for Detroit for 
games at Notre Dame next fall. The 
members are: James F. O'Brien, 
Ernest P. Lajoie, Harry F. Kelly, 
Don P. O'Keefe and Edward Weeks 
The committee expects to make a 
trip to the campus within the next 
tew weeks. 
Detroit will obser\'e Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner at the Oriole Terrace. The campus Notre Dame club has promised a good representation from the student body. The tax will be ?5 a couple. Formal dress will be optional. 
HIAWATHALAND 
The annual meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Hiawathaland will again be held in Escanaba, Monday, April 21. The Club includes Northern Wisconsin and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. The Club is planning to entertain the undergraduates on the 21st. 
HOUSTON 
No word on the Night from Hous­ton, but the ALUMNUS is going to convert this space into a temporary "agony column." Someone in Hous­ton on March 15 very thoughtfully filled out one of the Association's form checks, on the Houston Land and Trust Co., for five dollars, but didn't sign the check. The Office will gladly return the check for signature. 
JOLIET Election of officers for the year 1930 was held at the regular monthly meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Joliet on March 11. Clarence Wil­helrai was elected president; Patrick McDonnell, vice-president; John P. Berscheid, secretary, and Joseph Ad­ler, treasurer. A board of directors was also elected, Francis Dunn for three years, Edward Iving for two years and Brother Lawrence Joseph for one year. The meeting was preceded by a dinner at the Hotel Louis Joliet. Jo­seph Toomey, '28, at present TOth General Motors in Joliet, was a guest. A committee for U. N. D. Night was to have been appointed shortly after the meeting and the Club ex­pected to enlist Badio Station WCLS 
for a broadcast on the 21st. Details had not been received or confirmed at press time, 
ICANSAS CITY 
Dr. D. M. "Mike" Nigro, president of the Kansas City Club, pinch hits for the temporarily absent Maurice Carroll, Secretary, to announce one of the interesting programs for the Night. 
"We are planning a Dutch Lunch and smoker at the Commodore Apart­ment Hotel, in the Rockne suite. Mr. Conrad Mann, our honorary presi­dent, will be master of ceremonies and will sing a few German songs. Of course we will have other things to go along in the German way, such as limburger cheese and other com­modities. Henry Burdicfc, former football star, playing at Notre Dame in the 90's, will furnish us with An­heuser Busch beverages of which he is manager. 
"Maurice Carroll, an architect, has donated the plans for this of course. Tom Holland, one of our 1916 and 1917 boys who was just elected Judge of the Kansas City municipal court, the youngest man to run on the Dem­ocratic ticket, is going to make a talk. 
"John Dugan, Eddie McGrath, George Ehinehart, Ray Conrad, Mar­tin Crowe, Russell Hardy and Joe Stewart, will be the singing and dancing waiters and waitresses, and in case anyone gets sick, of course, I will be there to take care of them. We are also planning on tuning in on Station WGN on that occasion. We hope to make this Universal Night in Kansas City a big night for Notre Dame." 
ARKANSAS 
Dear Mr. Armstrong: 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club in Arkansas is planning to observe Uni­versal Notre Dame night as in pre­\ious years, with its annual banquet and election of officers, at the Marion Hotel, Little Rock. We hope to tune in on the radio program, which will be a wonderful help toward re-kind­ling the Notre Dame spirit. At the business session after the banquet, we hope to consider many different sug­gestions sent out from your office dur­ing the last few weeks. 
Rev. George F. X. Strassner. 
LOS ANGELES 
Tom Lieb who retired from the position of assistant coach of the championship Notre Dame eleven to accept an attractive offer from Loy­

ola College, Los Angeles, will be the 
speaker at the Universal Notre Dame 
Night observance in the City of the 
Angels. 
The Club had a very interesting meeting in January, the 23rd, at the University Club, at which 50 alumni had the pleasure of being entertained by Christy Walsh who brought with him some moving pictures of the So. Calif-N.D. football game. 
NEW JERSEY 

New Jersey, as usual, is among the leaders in preparing for a Big Night, -Art Lea Mond is chairman of the event. At press time, it is hoped that Rev. Charles C. Miltner, '11, Dean of the College of Arts and Let­ters, will be a guest of the evening. .A beefsteak dinner is to supply the physical sustenance. 
Tom Farrell and Jim Quinn at­tended the N. D.-Penn basketball game in Philadelphia and encoun­tered, Tom writes, "Al Ryan .. . I hardly recognized him as he has dis­carded his moustache. . . Ran into Harry Stuhldreher, Charlie Mc Der­mott, Bob Regan, Hughie McCaiTery (in his general's uniform) and Vince McNally there." 
ROCHESTER, N. Y. 

Rochester alumni have a job cut out for them before the Big Night, and apparently they are doing it up right. It is the custom of the High Schools of Rochester and Monroe counties to hold a "College Night" each year, on which the alumni of the various colleges are asked to fur­nish information, exhibits, etc., for the pupils of the schools who plan to attend the various institutions. Such is the activity of the N. D. Club of Rochester (OTHER CLUBS PLEASE NOTE) that eighty (SO) boys have signified their intentions or their de­sire of attending Notre Dame. The University is among the first three schools. in a list which includes sev­enteen of the leading colleges of the East and Middle West The Notre Dame Club has a room assigned and will have exhibits of campus liter­ature, views, etc, on Friday, April 4, at the Monroe High School. 
After that comes the Night. 
SAINT JOSEPH VALLEY 

Significant steps have just been taken by the Notre Dame Club of the Saint Joseph Valley that promise to put the "home Club" in its logical position at the head of the Class 
Incorporation as the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley under the laws of the State of Indiana, by 
Ai>ril, 19J0 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
which the Club comes into corporate being to pursue its aims is the first big step. Articles of incorporation were filed by President Dudley Shively. 
A second step is the appointment of the Alumnj Secretary as assistant secretary of the Club. This step brings the Alumni Office into imme­diate and close contact with the Local Club problems, and also promises to bring about more effective handling of the problems that face the Alumni Association at Commencement and during the Football Season when the alumni from all over the country re­turn to Notre Dame and South Bend. 
Universal Notre Dame Night the Club will have a "hard times" dinner in the Lay Faculty Dining Room of the University Dining Halls. Fifty cents is expected to cover the cost of a real meal and an evening's enter­tainment. Two speakers are expected to contribute both interest and en­lightenment to the occasion. A mu­sical program will be arranged. And the Notre Dame program from Sta­tion WGN will be received between 9 and 9:30 o'clock. 
The ALUMNUS expects this to be the largest meeting of the Night. It's cheaper to attend than to stay away, not to mention the higher as­pects of the occasion. 
SOUTHWESTERN TEXAS 

Joe Menger, who has been laid up for some months with blood poison­ing, is still on the upgrade, but a letter from him is sprinkled with enough of the old Menger fight (that weathered the St. Ed's cyclone) to as­sure the great Southwest of a gooil obsen'ance of the Night. 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 
A letted from E. C. Schonlau states that regular meetings with fair at­tendance have been the order of the winter in the central district, which means that April 21 will not find un­preparedness in this particular cen­ter. The Club had hoped for the presence of the Glee Club in that ter­ritory, but the itinerary in this issue indicates that Binghampton is the nearest place. 
TRI-CITIES 

Old Man River is going to know something on the night of April 21 in the vicinity of Moline, Rock Island and Davenport. A letter from Henry McCuUough says, "The Tri-City-Notre Dame Club has made elaborate preparations for a Notre Dame in­formal dinner dance to be held at the Le Claire Hotel Winter Gardens. All Notre Dame alumni, old students, and present students of the Tri-Cities and the surrounding territory are extended a courteous in\-itation to attend the function. The affair is going over with a bang and all at­tending are guaranteed a wonderful time. The committee planning the affair insures Notre Dame men a pleasant evening: Elmer Besten, chairman, Robert Van Lent, Charles SoUo, George Uhlmeyer, Richard Swift, Leo Herbert and Henry Mc­CuUough. Anyone planra'ng to at­tend can communicate with the pres­ident, Charles SoUo, Peoples Bank BIdg., Moline, or Henry McCullough, secretary, 26 JlcCuUough Bldg., Dav­enport. 
TWIN CITIES 

The Editor had the pleasure of a conversation with W. H. Cole, a vis­itor on the campus on March 29. He was accompanied by his brother Charles Cole, a Purdue alumnus. 
The Tivin Cities Club is planning a big dance at the Woman's Club, Min­neapolis, on the night of April 21. The undergraduates have promised 100% co-operation in the affair. It is hoped that music and a program from the dance can be broadcast from one of the T\vin City radio stations during the evening. 
The Club is planning a program of significant activities for the benefit of its membership and of the Univer­sity. A scholarship is being sought to stimulate preparatory school in­terest in Notre Dame. Special trains will be run, according to present plans, to both the Army game in Chicago, and the Navy game at Notre Dame in the new Stadium. 
WOMEN'S CLUB 

Not a small part of the obsen'ance of Universal Notre Dame Night will be taken by the various Religious Communities of Sisters throughout the country, whose members are de­gree holders from Notre Dame. Sr. 
M. Ffdelis, O.S.U., Toledo, 0., pres­ident of the Club, co-operated very graciously with the Alumni Office, by sending out some eighty notices to the various Orders and their Houses. The response. Sister Fidelis writes, has been vety gratifjing. 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT, APRIL 21 
Manion for Congress 
Announcement has just been made of the formal filing of Prof. Clarence Manion, J. D. '22, for the Democratic nomination for Congress from the 13th District, Indiana (South Bend and environs.) 
"Pat" Manion, brilliant orator, one of the country's leading students of constitutional law, the author of an American History, and a professor at Notre Dame since the World War, in which he served for 16 months, has made a large and varied group of friends in this District who will help him greatly in what mil probably be a difiicult race. The race for the nomination will in itself require political acumen as the opposition is strong. -And if this difficulty is sur­mounted, the Democratic nominee still has the more difficult task of dislodging the present incumbent, who has experience and a good record. 
Knowing Pat, his friends anticipate an interesting campaign. His open­ing statement launches an attack up­on the national Republican adminis­tration. 
Perpetual Adoration 
Perpetual Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament conducted entirely by college students is a Lenten devotion inaugurated this year by the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. Three thousand signed cards, each representing a volunteer for a half-hour before the Blessed Sacrament, gave the as­surance necessary for beginning the practice; the actual number of adorers will probably be twice as many, as unpledged visits are nu­merous. 
230 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS April, 1930 
Frederick P, Kenkel, Laetare Medallist, 1930 
Prominent German Editor and Social Scholar Annoimced as Recipient on Laetare Sunday. 
Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, President of the University of Notre Dame announced on Laetare Sunday that the University awards the Lae­tare Medal for 1930 to Mr. Frederick 
P. Kenkel, of St. Louis, Mo. Mr. Kenkel is director of the Central Bureau of the Central Verein, Ger­man Catholic Social Science, and edi­tor of the Central Blatt and Social Justice, a monthly publication de­voted to Social Science. The Laetare Medal is considered the most notable distinction that can be conferred up­on a Catholic layman in the United States. 
Last year the Medal was presented to Hon. Alfred E. Smith, for six years governor of New York, and Democratic candidate for the Pres­idency in 192S. 

The Laetare Medal is presented by the University to some lay Catholic in the United States who has achieved such distinction in his field of en­deavor as to reflect credit upon the Catholic Faith. Mr. Kenkel, the Uni­versity officials decided, meets this high qualification admirably, and Father O'Donnell stated, in be­half of himself and his associates at the University, that Notre Dame is proud to honor the 1930 recipient of the Medal. Incidentally Mr. Kenkel is the third St. Louisan to receive the Medal, the others being Mr. Richard C. Kerens, Sr., Ambassador to Austria, and Dr. Edward Preuss, editor of Die Amerika, of which newspaper M. Kenkel also %vas edi­tor at one time. 
Announcement of the award award of the Laetare Medal is made an­nually on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent. The Medal is com­parable to the Golden Rose, con­ferred annually by the Pope at Rome upon a Catholic who has achieved distinction in world affairs. 
Mr. Kenkel was bom in Chicago, Oct. 17, 1863, son of Henry and Albertine (VoU) Kenkel. He was baptised in St. Peter's Church in Chicago, and was reared as a non-Catholic. As a child he studied under private tutors in the United States and Europe. Later he entered Water­town, College at Watertown, Wiscon­sin, and the -Academy of Mining at Freiberg, Germany. He was mar­ried to Frl. Puttkamer, who died in Chicago some forty years ago. 
FREDERICK P. KENKEL 
19i0 Laetare Medallist 

The Kenkel family, father, mother, several sisters and Frederick later entered the Church separately and each under different circumstances. Following the death of his wife, and subsequent to his conversion, Mr. Kenkel studied philosophy, theology, history and other subjects with the Franciscans at St. Francis Solanus College and Monastery at Quincy, 
111. Later he married Frl. Eleanora 
v. Kamptz, member of a noble family of Mecklenburg, Germany, which an­tedated the thirteenth century. This marriage was solemnized at St. Peter's Church in Chicago. 
Previous to entering the Church Mr. Kenkel was associated with the publishing house and book store of Moelling, Klappenbach and Kenkel, Chicago. Later he was editor and businss manager of The Neiv World, Chicago; (1895-1900) editor of Kath. Wochenblatt, Chicago, (1900-1905) and managing editor of Die Amerika, Gei-man Catholic Daily in St. Louis, (1905-1920). In the latter year he went over to the Central Bureau of the Catholic Central Verein of Amer­ica, with which he has been identified since its inception, giving all his tiine to the work. 
Founded by the Central Verein Committee on Social propaganda in 1908, this bureau came under Mr. Kenkel's direction a year later. From 1909 until 1920 he gave it his sei-vices as editor and director (the latter term in the sense of responsible manager, editor of publications, etc.) without compensation, in addition to his ardu­ous duties as managing editor of Die Amerika. The official monthly jour­nal of the Bureau, which Mr. Kenkel edits, is the Central Blatt and Social Justice. Since 1924 he also has edit­ed the Bulletin of the Catholic Wo­men's Union, the women's branch of the Catholic Central Verein. 
These two organs are far from mere digests of the activities of the affiliated socities. Mr. Kenkel has given them a definite policy; to in­form their readers of the many as­pects of Catholic action; to perform an apologetic ser\-ice; to apply Cath­olic teaching to social and economic problems, and to encourage intel­ligent individual and corporate action in charity and social ser\'ice. While Central Blatt is moi-e general in character the Bulletin is written par­ticularly for Catholic women. 
The Central Bureau weekly press service to the Catholic press, written by Mr. Kenkel, is an apologetical service consisting of an article in English and another in German. News items are rarely sent out. 
Central Blatt and the press sen-ice date back in origin to 1909 and 1912, respectively; to times when Catholic social thought in our country was far less clear and active than now, and Catholic interest in the related problems far less keen. These or­gans, therefore, performed a pioneer sen'ice. 
This sen-ice was enlarged by Mr. Kenkel to arouse Catholic interest in social conditions and to promote study of the Catholic positions on socialism, capitalism, and labor and farm problems. This he achieved through the establishment of study courses (1912 to 1917) . These courses were given at Spring Bank, Wisconsin; Fordham university. New York; Mt. "Manresa, New York, and at convention cities of the Central Verein. They undoubtedly directed attention to the needs of applying Catholic principles to moot questions. 
In a sense Mr. Kenkel strove from the vantage point of an all-embracing Catholic philosophy of life to in­
Aiiril, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
fluence priests and laymen, using the Societies and well wishers of the Central Verein as a medium, in the sense indicated. 
More than any other Catholic lay­man Mr. Kenkel has aroused interest in social legislation among large groups of people. He has earned credit for early and persistent and effective opposition to increase fed­eral power, particularly by way of a federal department of education. 
Mr. Kenkel espouses a School of Catholic thought and Christian Sol­idarity as crystallized is the writings of Fr. H. Pesch, S.J., A. M. Weiss, O.P., Baron von Vogelsang, and others. The keynote of this philoso­phy is neither capitalism nor social­ism, but solidarism. 
His knowledge is encyclopedic, em­bi-acing theology, philosophy, histoi-y, philosophy of history, sociology, eco­nomics, anthropology, folk-lore, art, architecture, and in a minor way, the physical science. His speaking and writing style always is vigorous and logical. 
In 1912 Mr. Kenkel was honored with the cross of Knighthood of St. Gregorj' the Great, by Pius X, for his ser\-ice to the Catholic press, and in the domain of social action through the Central Verein and the Central Bureau. In 1926 he was awarded the Knighthood of the Holy Sepulchre, by His Eminence, the Patriarch Bar­lassina, in recognition of his and the Central Bureau's sen-ices in behalf of the German Society of the Holy Land. Mr. Kenkel has published but one printed volume, "Der Schaedel des Secundus Arbiter," privately printed in only 250 copies. All his other writings have gone into the publications on which he was em­ployed. 
Of his family three daughters are nuns; two, Gertrude and Elenora, in the MaryknoU Congregation (Manila and MaryknoU); the other, Marie, a Notre Dame nun (St. Charles, Mo.). Another daughter Johanna, married Mr. Thomas Noxon Toomey, medical practitioner in St. Louis. Of his sons, Gerald is a farmer at Brankley, Ark. Anthony is an expert with the U. S. tariff commission at Washington, and Fred H. is in the advei-tising busi­ness in New York. A niece, Albertine Huck, of Chicago, was married to the late Marshall Field II. 
Never ambitious for wealth, Mr. Kenkel accepted with open eyes the privations of Catholic journalism, and of service in the Catholic Action movement. Unquestionably much of the credit reflected upon the Central Verein, and the organized lay Cath­olic element of German extraction in our country is due to his personality, his labors, and the degree to which he has been able to influence the masses in the organization. 
It is interesting to note that the Central Bureau, as he formed it and caused it to operate about 1910, pre­figui-ed on a small scale later Cath­olic endeavors in our country. 
Mr. Kenkel lives at 3460 Itaska street, St. Louis. His office is at Westminster Place, St. Louis. He has no club affiliations. 
Annual presentation of the Laetare Medal by the University of Notre Dame originated in 1883, when the Rev. Thomas Walsh, C.S.C, was president of the University. John Gilmarj' Shea, the historian, received the award that year. Noted persons who have been honored since then in­clude General William S. Eosencrans, 1896; William Bourke Cochrane, the orator, 1901; Dr. John B. Murphy, 1902; Charles J. Bonaparte, Attorney General of the United States, 1903; Maurice Francis Egan, diplomat, 1910; Agnes Repplier, essayist and critic, 1911; Chief Justice Edward Douglas White, 1914; Dr. James J. Walsh, writer, 1916; Admiral William Benson, 1917, and Albert A. Zahm, scientist, 1925. In 1928 the recip­ient of the Medal was Hon. Jack J. Spalding, of Atlanta, one of the most prominent attorneys and philanthro­pists of the South. 
President O'Donnell of Notre Dame is ex-officio chairman of the Laetare Medal committee. Other members include the Rev. Jlichael A. Mul­caire, vice-president of the Univer­sity; the Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, 
C.S
C, and the Rev. Patrick J. Car­roll, C.S.C, president and rice-pres­ident, formerly, of the University; the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C; the Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C; Professors Edward J. Maurus; Jose 

A.
 Caparo; Henr\- B. Froning; John 

M.
 Cooney, and Vincent F. Fagan. 


Proctor in Savannah 
Robert E. Proctor delivered the St. Patrick's Day address to the Hiber­nians of Savannah, Ga. Mr. Proctor made the prediction to the Savannah papers that Indiana would go Dem­ocratic in the 1930 Fall elections, Mr. Proctor was not new to Savan­nah audiences, having delivered the Armistice Day address in the munic­ipal auditorium there five years ago. 
FATHER LANGE'S MODEL CHURCH 
The following letter from Hev. George MacNamara, C.S.C, is self-explanatory and very interesting: My dear Jim: 
I feel sure that you and many of the old boys will be interested in the enthusiastic attention that is at present centered around our old friend, Father Bernard Lange, no­torious in the old days as a football player, and noted more recently as a rector and as a scientist. Father Lange has created a perfect speci­men of French Gothic architecture that is attracting the attention of architects and art students; he has builded, in his leisure moments, a Gothic cathedral that is perfect in 
in 

every detail, and wonderfully beauti­ful in its grace, symmetry, and per­fection. It is a thing of beauty, and its accuracy, even to the minutest detail, has won the admiration of all who have seen it. I am enclosing a photograph—a copy that has ap­peared in the papers through the South. 
The model is a working model, built exactly to scale. One inch rep­resents six feet. The height of the main tower, in the model, is exactly eight feet to the top of the cross. That means that the church, if built to a six times scale, would tower 576 feet into the air. The length of the church is the same as the height. The width across the transepts is five feet, eight inches, or 408 feet, if built according to the six-time scale. The base of the main tower, wherein is located the sanctuary, is twenty-four square inches in the model, and would be 144 square feet in actual construction. The nave is fourteen 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS April, 19:10 
inches wide and thirty-two inches 
long; this would mean a nave of S4 
by 192 feet. Each wing is also four­
teen inches, or S4 feet wide. The two 
front towers are sixty-six inches tall 
and, if builded, would reach 396 feet 
into the air. 
The model is so complete that even 
the windows, perfect imitations of 
stained glass, original designs, are 
complete in detail. The windows are 
made of paper; the desifrns are draw­
ings made by Father Lange, who 
used ink and water-color to give the 
stained glass effect. He has, after 
the fashion of mediaeval glass work­
ers, represented various members of 
the Holy Cross Community in some 
of these windows, and he has intro­
duced the symbolic designs so much 
in vogue in true church decorations. 
At night, the church is lighted and a 
very pleasing and realistic effect is 
obtained wiien the lights of the model 
are turned on. 
There are four large, and very beautiful, rose windows, each six inches in diameter, or thirty-six feet in diameter, if built according to scale. The large nave and wing win­dows, of which there are forty-two in the model, are two and one-half by nine inches These would be fifteen by fiftj'-four feet in a completed church. 
The model is recognized as a type of pure Gothic and has won, for Father Lange, not only the interest and the attention of the architects of this neighborhood, but the admiration of everj-one who has seen it. They all marvel that he was able to pro­duce such a perfect piece of art with the limited means at his disposal. 
Father Lange was graduated from Notre Dame with a Litt. B. degree in 1912. In 1924 he received his M. -A.., and in 1926, his ScB. He is at present preparing for his Doctor's degree. 

Jim, this mode' is a gem and we are all proud to stand around and listen to the comments of those who recognize real artistic work. The papers have been lavish in the com­ments and one professor in the Uni­versity of Texas spent an hour ex­plaining to his class the beauties and the perfection of Father Lange's work of art. Tr>' to find space to publish a picture of a real work of art as builded by a Notre Dame man. 
Greetings to all the gang. 
Yours alwaj'S 
G. J. MacNamara, C.S.C. 

UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT, APRIL 21 
Religious Report Sent to Alumni 
-Alumni are probably by this time enjoying and jirofiting from the re­port of the Prefect of Religion, Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, Ph. B. '11, which has been (or is being) mailed to all members of the Association. The present report, for the year 1928-29, replaces the usual Religious 
RF,V. JOHK F . O'HARA, C.S.C, '11 
Prefect of Religion 

Sur\-ey, looked forivard to each year for the past eight years. 
In addition to the very interesting report itself, Father O'Hara's Bul­letin contains a number of interest­ing supplementary documents of the system used in developing the reli­gious life of the students, experiences with Perpetual -Adoration, an apprais­al of personnel service, and a number of reprints of the daily ReligioiiK Bulletin. This latter feature of Father O'Hara's work, and the an­nual Sun-ey, have attracted the at­tention of Religious educators the world over, and many Catholic schools have adopted Notre Dame methods. 
-A perusal of the Report will con­

vince the alumnus of the wonderful 
results that Father O'Hara is ob­
taining among the students This 
achievement is not without its per­
sonal cause. 
Father O'Hara entered Notre Dame 

in January 1909, after having been 
for three years in South -America at 
various -American consulates doing 
the jobs that are allotted to a bright 
and ambitious boy of eighteen. He 
brought to Notre Da-ne so much of 
the polish, the knowledge and the 
Spanish-speaking ability of these 
years that he was awarded his Ph. B. 
in two years and a half. 
Father O'Hara entered the Con­

gregation of Holy Cross after gradu­
ation, and did post-graduate work at 
Catholic U. and the U. of Pennsyl­
vania. He returned to Notre Dame 
as an instructor in 1917. In 1920 
the College of Commerce was orga­
nized. Father O'Hara was its first 
Dean. From six students in 1913, 
wiien the first definite course in com­
merce was offered, the College now 
numbers more than 800 students. 
For a number of years while he was engaged in other duties Father O'Hara was active in promoting the religious life of the students In 1924-25 James E. McCarthy, present Dean of the College of Commerce succeeded Father O'Hara in that capacity, and Father O'Hara turned all his attention to the religious problems of the campus. There is no need to elaborate to alumni of the success of these last five years. Notre Dame stands out among all educational institutions as a spiritual beacon. 
It is therefore with a thrill of satisfaction that the ALUMNUS knows that its readers are receiving the most recent of the invaluable reports of Father O'Hara's work. 
IIIIIIIIIHIIIttllllllMlltlllllllltlltilllllllliltlilllllllMlllltlllli llllillllttllHIIItllllllllllltlllllll 
Judge Kavanaugh Honored 

Hon. Marcus Kavanaugh, LL. D. '05, of Cook County Superior Court recently received an invitation from the British Parliament to address a special committee of the House of Commons on capital punishment-
The letter written by J. S. Hors­bragh-Porter, clerk of the committee, read: 
"I write on behalf of the select committee appointed by the House of. Commons to consider the question of capital punishment. 
"My committee approached the em­bassy of the United States of Amer­ica with a view to ascertaining whether it would be possible to enlist the help of witnesses from the United States to give evidence before them. The embassy communicated with the ministry of justice, who mentions your name. 
Judge Kavanaugh declared that he considered ithe invitation one of the highest honors he had ever received, that he would accept it and prepare to sail some time in April. 
April, 19 JO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
G/ee Club to Give Concerts In Hippodrome 
A
RR.A.NGEMENTS have been completed for the 1930 eastern tour of the University Glee 
Club by H. Jerome Parker, '30, gen­
eral manager, and his assistants who 
have planned an itinerary which will 
cover nearly three thousand miles 
<luring the ten days of Easter vaca­
tion. 
For the first time in its history the club will appear on the professional -stage in New York City as well as the concert stage throughout eastern states, an accomplishment few glee clubs can boast of. The massive Hip­podrome Theater in New York City will be the scene of these appear­ances. The club will open its pro­gram there on April 19 and continue through April 22. 
The securing of the contract from the Hippodrome is an indication of the light in which the club is recog­nized in the east. The Ro.xy Theater, also in New York City, first wanted the Notre Dame singers for a week's engagement but due to the fact that the appearances would have to com­mence on Good Friday, the contract was necessarily passed up. The ac­ceptance of another date from the Roxy would force the singers to miss an extra week of classes so negotia­tions were completed with the Hippo­drome. Other\vise, Director Joseph J. Casasanta's singers would have the distinction of being the only college club to appear on the Roxy stage during 1930. 
Other concerts will be given in Paterson, New Jersey; Bethlehem, Pennsylvania; .A.uburn, Binghampton and Buffalo, New York, during the tour. In each of the cities, former 
Notre Dame men will have complete 
charge of the concert or will be 
working in collaboration with the 
sponsors. 
Leo R. Mclntyre, '27, is handling 

the concert for Bethlehem. He has 
been in communication with the man­
agers of the club for many weeks 
and suitable terms were recently 
agreed upon.. Leo has been active 
in .Alumni affairs ever since his 
graduation. 
Charles Geherin, e.';-'31, who left 

the University in February due to 
illness, is arranging the concert for 
-Auburn. Charley is receiving much 
cooperation from the -Auburn council 
of the Knights of Columbus of which 
council his father is Grand Knight. 
The concert at Buffalo is being ar­
ranged by J. J. O'Leary, father of 
Robert O'Leary, '32 P. J. Congdon 
i.s handling the arrangements at Binghampton, the home town of Peter J. Wacks, associate manager of the club, who has been associated with the manager for the past two years, and was instrumental in secur­ing the Binghampton concert. 
Miss Dorothea Warr, secretary of the National Council of Catholic Women at Paterson, is making ax-­rangement.s in that city for the re­ception of the club. She writes that many former Notre Dame men, under the direction of Richard Hinch­liffe have been assisting her. 
The tour of this year has been given wider publicity than any pre­vious Eastern tour made bj' the club. James K. Collins, Sophomore man­ager, has been sending articles and 
pictures to each of the cities in which 
the men will appear, as well as sup­
plying the South Bend papers with 
lively copy. J. Edward Fhelan, 
Junior manager, has been giving val­
uable aid to Parker and Wacks in 
arranging the tour, especially in the 
contracting of the concert at Pater­
son, his home. 
Director Casasanta who, since his 
graduation in 1923, has scored many 
triumphs with his Glee Club and 
Band, passed another high mark 
March 30 when his singers were pre­
sented in their first campus appear­
ance of the year. A more diversified 
program was never attempted by a 
Notre Dame organization and each 
number was enthusiastically received 
by the student body. Four soloists, 
more than Director Casasanta has 
used for many years, appeared on 
the program. 
Thirty-five men will comprise the personnel of the club on its tour, making it the largest club ever to be sent out by the University. These men will be chosen from the sixty-five members of the concert club, which was chosen from the two hun­dred-odd men who tried out for the organization in the fall. Thomas J. Kerrigan, '30, of Chicago is presi­dent of the club, and R. Zeno Staudt, '30, of Canton, Ohio, is vice-president. 
These singers have been showing the public for years that Notre Dame sings as it plays football, and it is a known fact about the campus that it is almost as hard for a man to "come through" in the Glee Club as it is to be chosen on one of Coach ICnute Rockne's famous teams. 
234 April, 1930
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
A Message From President Eggeman 
Dear Fellow Alumni: 

On Monday Night, April 21, our Association ob­ser\-es its Seventh Annual Universal Notre Dame Night. This is the expression in material form of the universal love and loyalty for our Alma Mater that has been indelibly stamped on her graduates from the awarding of the first degree by Father Sorin. 
Throughout the world, in more than one hundred communities, by physical and spiritual communion, Notre Dame men will have emphasized again those fraternal ties that set our University apart among the colleges of the world. 
Alumni everywhere are on the threshold of a new life. No longer is there the sharp line drawn between the undergraduate, the University, and the alumnus We are Notre Dame men, as we were Notre Dame men on the day of our matriculation and during those few wonderful years on the campus. The campus is no longer confined to that beautiful 1200 acre tract in the Valley of the St. Joe. Notre Dame's campus is the world. Every night is Universal Norte Dame Night, but on this one night of each year, we call this fact to the attention of our neighbors. 
We, as an active, functioning alumni group of the new alumni order, are young. And we must go about our business with the enthusiasm of youth, an en­thusiasm seasoned and guided by the strength and experiences of Alma Mater and those splendid alumni groups of earlier years. 
It is pleasing to the officers of the Association, who, in the time allotted them, wish only to promote the progress of wliat their close association teaches them to be an essential phase of Notre Dame activities, to see such inspiring manifestations of support from the Local Alumni Clubs as appear from month to month in the ALUMNUS, and the similar manifestation of interest in the equally important Class column. 
Notre Dame, under the inspiring guidance of Father. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '06, is rising to new heighths over the splendid foundation that was Father O'Donnell's executive heritage. In these new fields the alumni occupy a prominent place. Three factors are indispensable if the Greater Notre Dame is to become a reality—^the University with all its phases, the alumni with their loyalty, interest and support,—and finally the public, from whom must be drawn students and material support. The public de­pends upon the alumni with whom it mingles for its concept of Notre Dame and its aims. It depends up­on the alumni for its example in loyalty, in material support and in affection. Notre Dame, the Greater Notre Dame, depends upon the alumni and the public. It is evident, therefore, how vital to the development of the University is the development of Noti-e Dame alumni. 
All indications are that this situation is fully understood by our alumni, and the response has been most encouraging. But this is our Seventh Annual Universal Notre Dame Night. It is an established feature of many of our Communities. Too often, with such establishment comes a carelessness in prepara­tion that off-sets much of the previous development. Tlie officers of the Association are particularly anxious that this does not happen. We are confident that it will not happen. 
Living Endowment, the new plan by which the dis­sociation hopes to aid the most rapid realization of the Greater Notre Dame, is of course uppermost in the minds of the officers. We hope that this Plan will be discussed by the Clubs on Universal Night. It means more than we can put into any preliminary picture. 
Commencement is another topic that we hope will meet with consideration among the alumni on the Night. The Club Council which the Directors have approved holds its inaugural meeting this year. Its success depends upon the co-operation of all the Clubs. We believe it will be a vital factor in the successful development of Club activities. 
There are other problems with which you are familiar through the ALUMNUS. Ballots for officers, for example, will be circulated in May. It is vital to the interests of the Association that the membership consider this vote as an obligation, so that the new officers may feel the united support of the Associa­tion behind them in the significant year that they face. 
We are confident that these important phases of the national proogram will be included in the various programs held throughout the world. We wish to urge that everywhere the Clubs make their activitity known to their communities and to Notre Dame so that the world and their Alma Mater can be proud of the Alumni of Noti-e Dame. 
John W. Eggeman, '00, President of the Alumni -Association 
Another Successful Debating Season 
Rev. Francis Boland, CS-C, '18, Coaches Teams to Outstanding Victories. 
A
VERY successful season is now being concluded by the Notre Dame debate teams. They have 
have won nine of their ten debates on 
the regular varsity question, at the 
time of this writing, and have par­
ticipated in two radio debates bi-oad­
cast from a Chicago station on other 
questions. A good schedule was 
arranged this season, including all of 
Notre Dame's old rivals, and adding 
several new contests with some of the 
leading universities in the country. 
Many good debate teams have rep­

resented this school on the platform 
since we won our first intercollegiate 
debate against Indianapolis Univers­
ity in 1899, and this year's teams are 
no exception. They have followed in 
the footsteps of those teams that over 
a period of more than thirty years 
have won better than three-fourths 
of their debates. 
The question genei-ally used throughout the country for intercol­legiate debates this year is: "Re­solved: That all the nations of the world should adopt a plan of com­plete disai-mament, excepting such forces as are necessary for police pro­tection." 
The importance of the disarmament question in present day national af­fairs is quite evident. The London conference for limitation of arma­ments is the latest of a long series of international discussions of the prob­lem of anns that have kept the arms question an evei--present topic in the day's news. The issues raised by any discussion of armaments are invari­ably large. Avoidance of war, a world court for settlement of disputes, na­tional security. League of Nations, all of these vitally important problems must be considered thoroughly in the course of the debate. A knowledge of the subject therefore entails an un­derstanding of the basic facts of the history and practice of international relations. The importance of the question, and the weighty issues raised incidental to it, make it an ideal question for debate from the point of view of the audience, and a lively interest is easily sustained throughout. 
The first call for candidates was issued last Novembei-, and resulted in a meeting of a large number of men interested in debate. These candi­dates were put through an intensive series of preliminaries held before the Christmas vacation, and in the finals held immediately following the return to school of the prospective debaters the twenty men remaining were ar­ranged into teams, affirmative and negative, and debated the regular varsity question, rebuttals and all. As a result of this trial under conditions resembling an actual intercollegiate 
REV. FRANCIS BOLAND, C.S.C , '18 
Coach of Debate 

debate, twelve men were picked. These men were dirided into four teams— two regular varsity teams, affirmative and negative; and two alternate teams. The affirmative team, as first named, was composed of Walter Stanton, William O'Malley, and Thomas Keegan as regulars, with Frank McGreal, Ed Connors, and Fred Baer the alternates. The negative team was James Walsh, William Kirby, and John Keefe; alternates being Charles Hanna, George Allen, and J. Edward Phelan. 
The affirmative team, captained by Thomas Keegan, a senior in Arts and Lettei's, has taken the difficult side of the question and handled it with mas­terful ease. Since the first debate, which they lost to City College of De­troit, the affirmative have defeated by wide margins evei-y school they have met. Professor lIcGee of Purdue University, a man who has served as critic judge in many intercollegiate debates in the Big Ten and elsewhere, said of the affirmative team: "They have a case far superior to any that I thought an affirmative team could possibly present." Besides Keegan, who hails fi-om Rockford, Illinois, the affirmative men who have participated 
in one or more debates are Walter Stanton, one of the debating Stantons of Gary, Indiana, William O'Malley, of Chicago, and Francis McGreal, also of Chicago. 
The negative, captained by James 
J. Walsh, a senior in the School of Education, is so far undefeated. Of the negative team, Prof. Cunning­ham, the Director of Debate at Northwestern, said: "-\s finely bal­anced a team as I have seen in years of coaching and judging experience." The other two speakers on the nega­tive besides Mr. Walsh of Brooklyn are William Kirby, sophomore, of Waukegan, Illinois, and John Keefe, a junior, from New Richmond, Wis­consin. Charles Hanna, sophomore, of Chicago, spoke in the two-man de­bate against Florida, which Notre Dame won before a large crowd in Washington Hall. To the negative team went the team honors for the year, for they won the annual affirm­ative-negative debate at St. Mary's. Before a jammed auditorium the neg­ative defeated the affirmative, the de­cision given by the seniors in politics at the sister institution being 2.5 to 7 against the "yes-men." 
The affirmative opened the season on Feb. 28th, against City College of Detroit, at Detroit. By a very close margin they lost this debate—the only debate lost the whole year. Within a week the negative avenged this loss by defeating the affirmative team of the City College of Detroit in Washington Hall. The critic judge for the evening was Professor C. C. Cunningham, Director of Debate at Northwestern University, one of the most expert judges in the Middle West. The negative now won from Michigan State before a large audi­ence at Lansing, March 10th. The Notre Dame debate at Michigan State is the big debate of the year at Lansing. This year some thirty-five high school debate teams from central and southern Michigan at­tended, and next year it is planned to have all of the high school debate teams in the state of Michigan at­tend the Notre Dame-Michigan State contest. 
The following evening a two-man team from the University of Florida appeared before the students in Washington Hall. They lost the de­cision to the negative men represent­
ing Notre Dame, but not without 
charming the audience with their 
southern accent, pleasing manner, 
easy delivery, and brilliant debating. 
The southern orators, Messrs, Harold 
Wahl and E. Dixie Beggs, represent 
one of the very finest educational 
institutions in the South, the Univer­
sity of Florida, and Notre Dame is 
anxious to continue forensic relations 
with their school. The first home de­
bate of the afiirmative saw them de­
cisively defeat the negative from 
Michigan State the night of March 
13th. Three nights later the affirm­
ative again won, this time from Pur­
due University. The three gentle­
men from Purdue presented a fine 
case and were excellent examples of 
the high type of speakers that repre­
sent our friends to the south of the 
state each year. A large crowd was 
present in Washington Hall again 
that night. An old debate rival of 
Notre Dame, Western Reserve of 
Cleveland, met our negative at South 
Bend High School auditorium on the 
evening of March 23rd., only to re­
turn to Cleveland defeated. Western 
Reser\-e, one of the most progressive 
debating schools in the country, 
makes a practice of using airplanes 
in filling their many forensic engage­
ments. 
New York University initiated <le­bating relations with Notre Dame on March 24th., in Washington Hall. The debate was won by our affirm­ative in front of a large crowd of students from the Metropolitan area of New York anxious for a sight of someone from home. The Notre Dame-Northwestern debate, held at the new McICinlock campus of North­western, won by our affirmative, was one of the most pleasant con­tests of the year. Northwestern teams, whether tliey be football, track, basketball, baseball, or debat­ing, are uniformly the highest calibre opponents. This is the first year we have met them in debate, and it is hoped that future debates may be ar­ranged with Northwestern. The judge of the debate was Professor E. 
R. Nichols, of the University of Red-lands, California. Professor Nichols, is one of the founders of Pi Kappa Delta, (national honorai-y forensic fx-a­temity) has had many years of suc­cessful teaching and coaching at Red-lands, and is editor of Intercollegiate Debates. He is undoubtedly one of the outstanding authorities on debate in -America today, and Jiis analysis and criticism of the debate prepara­tory to the giving of his decision was e.xcellent. Lincoln Hall, an exact i-eplica of the interior of the House of Lords in London, was well filled by a very attentive audience. But one debate a year is to be held in this new downtown campus of North­western, and Notre Dame has been honored in being the first to occupy this important place on their sched­ule. 
The best attended debate of the year was held the first of April in Washington Hall betiveen a Notre Dame two-man team defending the negative as opposed to the afiirmative ofl"ered by a team representing the Harvard Chinese Debating Council. These gentlemen were both pleasing and polished orators. They number among their victims the regular Har­vard Varsity team, and several other schools of note. One of their most important debates was the one with George Washington University, held before an audience composed of the staff's of the Embassy of China, and its guests from the embassies of the other countries stationed in Washing­ton. This debate was Notre Dame's most entertaining one, for an open forum for discussion of questions asked by the audience was held after the main part of the debate had been concluded, and the students in attend­ance asked many interesting ques­tions. By previous agreement, no decision was given on this debate. 
Two striking points of similarity between Notre Dame's first, and this, her latest, debating season appeared to the teams in their review of the year. The Scholastic of 1S89 carried this proud editorial following N. D 's first debate: "All honor to Sherman Steele, Matthew Schumacher, and Harry Boyle! By a vote of two to one the judges of the debate between the Universities of Indianapolis and Notre Dame, our men were declared winners. This is our first attempt at debating, and we have reason to be proud of our victory, which is the greatest, perhaps, Notre Dame has ever won. Being strangers in the field of oratory, we knew not, until Tuesday night, our own strength. Now we have been tested, and the re­sult is not merely satisfactory but exceeding gratifying. We have con­quered debaters whose experience was broad, whose victories are nu­merous, and whose fame is wide­spread. Our men won, because they themselves, striving with all the energies of their souls and all the forces of their minds, were bound to win, and because their training was severe, constant, and persisting. Their victory is all the greater be­cause their opopnents are men of marked ability and trained capacity." 

The subject for debate that historic night in 1899 was almost identical with the subject for this year at Notre Dame. The question was: "Resolved: That under existing con­ditions the abolition by all civilized nations of the world of their armies and navies, other than those required for domestic police force, is feasible." The only difference is that this year we say "all nations." The essential principle of complete disarmament with the exception of a small force for police protection remains. 
-Another noticeable point of simi­larity bet^veen the two years is that on the back of the debate editorial page of 1S99 was an article telling of the wireless telegraphy experiments of Professor Green of Notre Dame Prof. Green was the forerunner of radio in this countrj' and his experi­ments on the campus attracted wide fame. That year Notre Dame started the use of radio; this year, 31 years later, we embarked on a career of radio broadcasts of debate. Radio debates have twice been given over station WLS in Chicago on two wide­ly different questions. In the first one Francis McGreal and Thomas Keegan debated Purdue on a farm relief question; in the second Francis McGreal and John Keefe met the same school on a question involving public ownership of hydro-electric power plants. Following each of these broadcasts floods of congratu­latory mail were received by the Uni­versity via the radio station. It was a distinct honor for Notre Dame to be invited twice to debate questions of vital importance and great interest over the radio and much favorable comment was directed toward the University as a result of these de­bates. 
There still remains, this year, a trip to the East for a picked three man team which will uphold the neg­ative in both of its contests. April 22nd this team meets New York Uni­versity there, to repay the visit of N.Y.U's team to Notre Dame earlier this year. As a grand finale to the entire season, the following night, -A.pril 23rd, Notre Dame meets Princeton for the first time in de­bating history. Princeton has an ex­cellent reputation for consistently good debating teams, and they are opponents worthy of any school in the country. It is foi-tunate that the two universities were able to con-elude arrangements to meet on the debating platform, and it is hoped that this first debate is the starting point of a long friendly rivalry be­tween the two schools 
The expert critic Judges before wliom Notre Dame spoke this year were of uniformly high calibre. A list of a few of the judges would in­clude the following: Professor W. P. Sanford, Head of the School of Speech at the University of Illinois, author and speaker of note; Profes­sor C. C. Cunningham, Director of Debate at Northwestern University; Professor Meiskins of the University of Michigan; Professor Claude Sifz'itt of Butler University, the debate coach there; Prof. P. E. Lull, Direc­tor of Debate at Purdue; Prof. N. J. Weiss, Albion College's debating coach; Prof. J. A. McGee, Director of Dramatics at Purdue; and Prof E. R. Nichols, the coach, author, and national debating authority from the University of Redlands, California. 
Regardless of the outcome of the last two debates on the schedule, the season may be classed as another successful Notre Dame year. --^ schedule that included our old rivals, Detroit, Western Reserve, Purdue, and Michigan State, and the best of new friends, Florida, New York Uni­versity, Northwestern, Harvard, and Princeton, has been successfully met. The treatment and reception ac­corded the teams was very pleasing. And with most of the twelve men back ne.xt yeai-, prospects for con­tinued interest in debating at Notre Dame appear bright. 
Economics Library 

Rev. Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S.C, vice-president of the University of Notre Dame, and head of the Eco­nomics Department, has announced that an addition of eighty-four vol­umes has been given to the Econom­ics' Library through the co-operation of a friend and the Yale University Press. 
These books deal extensively with the subject of Government, and the International Relationships, and will be a welcome addition to the files of Notre Dame's Economics Department. 
Included in the collection are books by such distinguished authors as Chief Justice Evans Hughes; China's Envoy, C. C. Wu; France's Renouvin and Siegfried; Italy's Count Sforza; England's Sir J. A. Salter and R. H. Tawney; Germany's Count Harrj-Kessler; and other notable writers in the United States and Europe. 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT, APRIL 21 
Suggested Reading In the Field of Commerce 
Recent Books Outlined by James E. McCarthy, Dean of the College of Commerce of the University. 
One of the most encouraging signs of progress in these piping times of business depression is the interest that is being evidenced in the study of con­sumer incomes, spendings, trade out­lets and those allied matters that are desig-ned to give the manufacturer 
^"•""ff^ 
JA.MES E. MCCARTHY 

Dean of the College of Commerce 
and distributor a more comprehensive understanding of his customer. Amer­ica has always been geared to a ris­ing market and consequently the major portion of our business energy has in the past been devoted to mak­ing the rhythm of production vast and rapid. The rapidity of produc­tion, which has been our great con­cern, is no longer of concern and our particular problem at this time is to find or create buyei's who will con­sume our manufactured products on the same rapid scale. Thus, Paul W. Stewart's "Slarket Data Handbook," published by the Department of Com­merce, is a noteworthy contribution towards the solution of that perplex­ing problem, and there is every justi­fication for this publication being classed as the most important publi­cation of the year in the field of dis­tribution. Statistical compilation by counties of different measures of mar­ket demand, together with data on population, incomes, expenditures, newspaper circulation and trade out­lets are significant features. The handbook should prove highly valua­ble in establishing sales quotas, ad­vertising appropriations and market­ing programs. There are four market 
area maps, 535 pages, and the price 
is $2.50. 
Since we as a people are given to reviewing business fundamentals dur­ing periods of general economic trou­ble, the following publications, some of a more recent date than others, may be appropriately recommended. 
ACCOUNTANTS' HANDBOOK, The Ron­ald Press Company.—The standard reference manual covering the entire range of accounting principles and accepted practice. Covers accounting in its principles and application, also business law, banking, credits, office methods, management and all the numerous subdivisions of business practice. 
LIFE EXPECTANCY OF PHYSIC-VL PROPERTY, E. D. Kurtz, Ronald Press. —Problems of depreciation and obso­lescence of physical property fully covered from an engineering and ac­counting point of view. 
STANDARD COSTS, G. C. Harrison, Ronald Press.—Complete and detailed explanation of the best methods of setting and using standard costs. Contains answers to the many prac­tical questions that arise in installing a standard cost system to fit the special requirements of the particular business, whether large or small, and in getting it into practical operation. 
APPLIED BUSINESS FINANCE, E. E. Lincoln, McGraw-Hill Book Co., Inc. —This splendid and thorough book, now in it's eighth printing and re­vised (1929) has become a standai'd refei'ence on the subject of business finance. The underlying principles of finance which have stood the test of the best practice and which have been endorsed by leaders in the business world are fully depicted. 
THE FINA.NCIAL POLICY OP CORPORA­TIONS, A. S. Deiving, Ronald Press.— The re\'ised edition of this book has like Lincoln's Business Finance be­come a standard reference work. 
MODERN TYPOGRAPHY AND LAYOUT, 
D. C. ilcMurtrie, Book Service Co. RECENT ECONO.MIC CHANGES, Na­tional Bureau of Economic Research. IN\'ESTMENT PRINCIPLES AND PRAC­TICE, R. E. Badger, Prentice-Hall. 
THE PASSING OF NORM.ALCY, C. W . Wood, B. C. Forbes Publishing Co.— A provocative and fascinating book which takes stock of our modem business methods and shows how they may be molding our lives anew. 
NOTRE DAME-FACTS AND FIGURES 
By NEIL HURLEY 
If we peer back exactly twenty-five years into the past of Notre Dame, we find some 150 students, scattered throughout four residential halls, to­talling the undergraduate population. This small handful of men came from all over the world. The various sec­tions of these United States were all represented, while it is an established though surprising fact that in the year 1905 there were more foreign powers represented on the campus than there are at present. 
This handful of men has grown in­to striking proportions during the past quarter century. The enrollment today stands at 3,125 students. Or, in other words, Notre Dame may boast of an enrollment increase of over two thousand per cent within the past tvventy-five years. 
We find that the fame and glory of Notre Dame have penetrated even to the far comers of the earth. We see on the campus men from Spain, South .A.merica, and the Philippine Islands. We attend classes with students from Austria, Cuba, and Palestine. Others travel from Canada, China, and Mex­ico. Many of the industrial and po­litical leaders of the great foreign countries point to the Golden Dome of Notre Dame as the inspiring s\Tn­bol of their alma mater. 
This present year has shown an in­crease in enrollment which is in keep­ing with other years. In this present age an enrollment increase is not aimed at, however, and the ofScials are making an effort to keep it down, believing that the present number is the ideal number for a college student body. 
Notre Dame has proved herself an institution international in scope and one that is so appreciated throughout the land that all but three states— Nevada and the two Carolinas—are represented among the make-up of the student body. It is worthy of note that of the remaining states thirteen are represented by less than five. In this respect Alabama, Arkansas, Del­aware, Georgia, Idaho, New Mexico, New Hampshire, North Dakota, Maine, Maryland, Rhode Island, Utah, and Virginia are delinquent. 
Notre Dame is the destination of many scholars from foreign lands. Tom Horan, who comes aU of the way from Kalbar, Queensland, in Aus­trailia, resides in Morrissey Hall, and is a second rear student in electrical engineering. For distance travelled to reach school, however, the record goes to Ralph MoUor, a freshman in Howard Hall, who hails from 33 Ave­nue Edward ^^I, Shanghai, China. He is closely followed by one student who comes all the way from Palestine. His exact home is in Pamallah, Jerusalem. In the num­ber of students from foreign lands residing at the University the Repub­lic of Mexico is first, being repre­sented by fourteen men, which is an increase of two over last year. Of these fourteen, only two come from Mexico City proper, the others ap­portioned throughout the land. Can­ada runs second with eight students to her credit. Three men Journey from South America; coming from the countries of Chile, Argentina, and Peru. The Philippine Islands send two students. From Spain, four more men come. Louis Godoy journeys from Carapanio Carrera, Centralori­ente, Santiago de Cuba, or in other words, Oriente, Cuba. All in all, the University has thirty-five foreign pupils in her midst. 

While we are on the subject of dis­tance, it should not be amiss to men­tion the travelling done by Notre Dame's American population. Cali­fornia, the farthest state in the Union, has sent us thirty-three stu­dents. Oregon sends eight. Four come from Maine; ninety-nine hail from somewhere in New Jersey. It is this way all down the list. We find the student body is a mixture of practically every state, nay, of every locality, in the country. Quoting from an article on this subject in the Scho-Uifitic of last year, one may hear the "maple-sugar twang of the Vermon­ter's sharp-edged speech; the round fuU-waisted r's of Pennsylvania and Ohio; and the soft, indolent vowels of the South." Truly, Notre Dame is a blend of localities. 
Again, another fact, in regard to transporting the student body to and from the campus. It has been estimated that about eighty-five thou­sand dollars is spent by the men col­lectively in going to or coming from their homes. This is spent entirely on railroad fare, which should give some sort of an idea as to the dis­tance travelled by Notre Dame men. 
Despite general opinion the home staters are not in a majority in re­gard to student population over all other states. At present, it is found that Illinois is securely in first place by scoring 531 students, which is an increase of more than fony over last year. New Yoi-k tabulates 461 men, nosing out Indiana for second place. The Hoosiers, last year second in pop­ulation, now have only 437. Follow­ing them comes Ohio in fourth posi­tion with 260 representatives. X tie results for fifth between Michigan and Pennsylvania, both having 193 "local boys" in attendance at the Uni­versity. Wisconsin has sent 120 sons, which entitles it to seventh place. 
It is interesting to note that al­though forty-five states and nine for­eign countries are represented on the enrollment, exactly half of Notre Dame's population is from six states. New York, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Michigan are the ones. with the necessary population. The remaining fifteen hundred men are scattered throughout the entire nation. 
In respect to cities, Chicago as usual reigns supreme. Half of the Illinois delegation, or 272 men, come from the Windy City. New York in this rating is second to Chicago. 
It might prove interesting to pur­sue the table of enrollment increase since the year 1905, which is far enough back for all practical pur­poses. In short form the table is as follows: 
Year Enroll. Year Enroll. 
1904-05 150 1917-18 579 1905-06 201 1918-19 716 1906-07 227 1919-20 1039 1907-08 274 1920-21 1185 1908-09 275 1921-22 1263 1909-10 350 1922-23 1480 1910-11 437 1923-24 1992 1911-12 438 1924-25 2125 1912-13 452 1925-26 2490 1913-14 530 1926-27 2774 1911-15 575 1927-28 2993 1915-16 587 1928-29 3070 1916-17 656 1929-30 3125 
Thus we see that Notre Dame is a splendid mixture of spices ranging from Shanghai in the mysterious Orient to the Everglades of Florida, and from the innermost portions of our Great American Desert to the creaky tenements of our larger cities. Men from all over the land look to Notre Dame for education. The call rings from the Golden Dome and is answered by youth the world over. 
April, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
n 

...y,-,<rr •VG3'T<^/. 
•-n^ i ^Tii^^^-ai^CIl^ 96-15; 
I-"-
AsToiJi^v, OHEOOX, / „ -lO. Xo. ^•^^ 
^^_..,r^^ .^j .)l{-y g:^ 
01{l>Klt OF 


' / .-^o. 
-•'V 
::^l>oi.i.ATis ; 

• •> 
--! ./->.-::: 
y. 
-'^4<fe^^:-:4 

fel; 
AMONG HIGHLIGHTS OF NOTRE DAME HISTORY 
A
LL great movements in his­tory have had their signifi­cant events, from which suc­cess or failure can be traced. It is not an e.Ktravagant comparison to consider the receipt of the first check in the Living Endowment campaign at Notre Dame as an event from which a large part of the success or failure of the devel­opment of the Greater Notre Dame will be traced. 
James L. Hope, LL. B. '11, a la^v>'er in Astoria, Oregon, the Jim Hope whose eloquent tongue made debating history in his under­graduate days and the Jim Hope in whom, apparently, athletic man­agership at Notre Dame has left the stamp of financial astuteness, is the Paul Revere of the cam­paign. (And Jim Hope will be the first to complain of this publicity, but it is too significant to obscure.) 
Active campaigning was not ot begin until June, 1930. But Jim's letter to Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, the privacy of which is sacrificed for the good of the cause, e.xplains much and in so similar a tone to that hoped for by the officers of the Association launching this campaign that it is reprinted here­with: 

Dear Father O'Donnell: Just noticed some comment in the last issue of the ALUMNUS on "Living Endowment," referring to an article of yours in the for­mer issue. I hate to admit that I missed it but such is the truth. Too much fishing and duck hunting I guess. 
However, from Mr. Hayes' ar­ticle, I take it that we are sup­posed to do our duty with some­thing other than a bit of whoopee on the sidelines. I can spare a hundred a year, even if it does make one less of this and that, so here it is and more power to you. 
With every good wish, and lots of luck, I am. Sincerely, (Sig.) J. L. Hope 
Expression of spirit is probably the most significant feature of the above communication in line with the Association's hopes for the Living Endowman plan. There is in it a willingness to do something for Notre Dame, not in a great gesture, not in a manner involving sacrifice of necessities, but with a naturalness and a simplicity of e.\­pression that stamps it as genuine. 
Jim Hope is going to know in a very few years, if the succeeding chapters of this story are as in­teresting as the introductory chap­ter, the real satisfaction that comes from having supported an agency that is not only linked to the heart by past associations, but that is linked by current achieve­ment and contact, and by possibil­ities that warm the hearts of Notre Dame men in consideration. 
Page 240—The Notre Dame Ahininus 
! 
NCMINEES F€R ASSCCi 
Reports of Two Nominating Committees Give Alumni le 
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C. 
For Honorary President 

Father John CavanauKh. Litt. B. 1890. LL. I). 1921. for fourteen years nre^ident of the Uni­versity (19(I5-19K is probably the most univer­s:illy known and loved of the priests of N'otru Dr.me. In addition to his loni? career r.s an educator. Father CavanauKh is one of the jrreat 
orators of America, and is one of the foremost Catholic literary critics of the countrj*. Deli­cate health has been the bushel under which these lichts have l>een partially hidden in recent years. 
HON. WJL J. GRANFIELD 
For Vice-President 

Hon. William J. Granfield. LL. B. 191S, mem­ber of the Consress of the United States from the 2nd District, Massachusetts, member of the Committee on Military AfTairs of that body, is one of the youncer alumni with a place in the sun. T>"P2 is still hot describing his recent 
-sensational concressional victory. He is presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of the Connecticut Valley, a former monotn^m man in basketball and baseball and one of the ablest of the younKer law alumni. 
A PHOTO OF 
31K. CORLEV FAILED 
TO ARRITO IN TIME 
FOR THIS ISSUE. 
JOHN L. CORLEY 
For President 

John L. Corley, LL. B. 1902, attorney and mana;:er of the National Indemnity ExchanKC. :J829 W'ashinKton Blvd., St. Louis, Mo., has been one of the leadint; alumni in his section of the country. Mr. Corley has won considerable praise for the ability which has resulted in the building LP of a very extensive business. He has been active in the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis. His interest in the Lay Fncultj' Foundation of the Association resulted in a substantial impetus for that important project. 
SSSS^^^&'^^^^ ^^ps 
^^^ul "^^ 
^^^'^ 
1^^-^' 
^\^ ^•s^fej 
^*^St:a 
^»?^ 
^^^P^LI 
^^p5^fJ.1 
^BH^k ^ '•%>!!'SB^K^ 
HH^'^Pk ~^'\^^ 
£/-«^^ 
Jo^aBsi&afc'^^rv^liPy^At 
K M ^^fe^^ 
JIBBBS^M^i^^ffi'ir^^^^^^BI 
^^^^*' ^^1 
^^^^^^ '^1 
FRANK F. DUQUETTE 
For Director 

Fi-anci.s J'landers Duquette, A. B. 1902, who re­mained on the faculty at the University and re­ceived his LL. B. in 1904, is one of the com­parative **ne:Khbors** on the ticket. The Vale­dictorian and Quan Medallist of the distinKuished Class of '02, abides in the nearby city of Three Rivers, Mich., where he is enintecd in the auto­mobile business. Liks most neighbors, his visits have been too few, but he*s so close that he c:in henr the cheerinjr anyhow, and the musical or­jjanizations. in which he once starred. 
THE C€ 
The Committees are: (a) Grat York Citj% chairman ,• Arthur E. X. port, La.; and Wendell T. Phillips. Boston, Mass.; (b) William P. De 111., chairman; Francis P. Burke) and Don P. O'Keefe, '04, Che\'f Detroit, Mich. (The committees only. They rank equally, and noi which committee made them.) 
C€y< 
The accompanying nominatior NUS. The Committees are to be choice which they offer to the vo i-equire a lengthy identification, have been prominent in the affair been members. Each has to his and the ALUMNUS is very please out further comment. 
TH E C€f« 
"Article VII, Section 3: Any of whom shall reside in any one c Secretary, make other nominatioi with the Secretary not later than be published in the ALUMNUS af section required." 
"Article VII, Section 4: The \ 
placed by the Seci-etary on a prinf 
B
distinction as to method of nomii QJ envelope marked "Ballot," with li voter, shall be mailed, on or befo 
h 
vote. 

"This Ballot, when marked, "Ballot" upon which the voting i last mail address, and mailed bad to the Association itself, at Notre in a sealed envelope, and duly enc ^(j Secretaiy; but no such Ballot sha is delivered as above provided, by meeting, that is, the actual openii and before the ballots ai-e deliv The Secretaiy, or some represeni the annual meeting at least thir same in order to receive anv Ball 
"Article VII, Section 6: No B it is enclosed in a sealed envelop address of the voting member ck the .Secretary before the polls clos 
"Article "^11, Section 8: A plu 
^Walter Duncan, LL.B. '12, wll shij of Hon. Warren A. Cartier,| 1C( 
7, 
committees. Four years of sery dservice has been on a steady increa hi as "falter will consent to keep tl )b 
mean contribution in itself, and \ y diced contact, heartily echoes the jjj 
The Notre Dame Abimnus—Page 241 
f 
ITIC N CPriCCX 193C-31 
i y ers Splendid Choices For Next 
f MITTEEX 
rat T. Stanford, '04, 45 Nassau St., New 
iod}% '15, 819 Slatterj^ Bldg., Shreve-PS, , care of Maginnis & Walsh, Archts., D( i, '90, 925 Edgecomb Place, Chicago, 
2109 Grand Ave., Milwaukee, Wis., XT Motor Co., General Motors Bldg., les designated a. and b. for reference lOlB tions are listed without reference to 
)^ iENT 
iquire no elaboration by the ALUM­?ratulated on the uniformly excellent 
Nor does any individual nominee ;y ai-e, mthout exception, men who the Association as long as they have dit many constructive contributions, 
present the 1930-31 nominees ^vith­
>f^ TITUTI€N 
itj''-five members, not more than ten ty, may, by petition addressed to the )roviding this is done by filing same il 30th. Such nominations shall also they are received, as in the preceding 
es of all persons nominated shall be Ballot, in alphabetical order, A\ithout ^,V on, and one ballot, together with an for the signature and address of the lav 20th to each member entitled to 
be sealed in such envelope marked iber shall endoi'se his signature and the Secretary of this Association, or le, Indiana; or such Ballot so enclosed 2d, may be delivered in person to the i received or counted unless the same 1 or in person, at or before the actual nd convening of the annual meeting, 1 to the tellers as herein provided, 
•e for him, shall be in attendance at ainutes before the convening of the endered to him." t shall be received or counted unless larked "Ballot," mth the name and ; endorsed thereon, and delivered to 
tj' of the votes cast shall elect." 
icceeded the eighteen year treasurer­
7, was the unanimous choice of both during which time the demand for have convinced everyone that as long )b, he's qualified. Handling it is no ALUMNUS, from close but unpreju­limitv of the committees. 
Year's Association Leaders 
FR.\NK E. HEEING 
For President 

Prank E. HeiinK. Litt. B. IS'JS. LL. B. laoi. former cnptain and coach of the Notre Dame football team, a member of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University, of the Advisorj* Board of Athletic Control of the University, and Hon­orary President of the X. D. Club of the St. Joseph Valley, has been just as active in out­side life. He is eilitor of the Eaiiles Mayajzinc and a leader in that fraternal organization. He «-as recently recojrnized and decorated as the oflicial founder of "Mother's Day." 
A PHOTO OF 
JlR. MCELLIGOTT FAILED 
TO ABRr."E IX TIME 
FOR THIS ISSUE. 
PETER p. McELLIGOTT 
For Director 

Peter P. McElliKott. LL. B. 1902, is old in the alumni harness. He was vice-president of the Association in 1913-14 and Trustee in 1916-17. He has been a leader in the Xew York alumni circles throughout the histoi-j- of the several or-ITanizations effected there. He is an attorney. .120 W. 23rd St.. New York City, and has also teen actively and creditably identified with city and state politics. Mr. McElliKOtt is Secretary of the Class of 1902. 
.4.LBERT F. ZARU For Honorarij President 

Albert F. Zahm, A. B. 1SS3. A. M. 1S83. M. S. ISUO. LL D. 1917. and Laetare Medallist in 1923. is one of the most brilliant lay in-aduates of Notre Dame. He at present holds the recently created Guggenheim Chair of Aeronautics in the Library of Congress, Washington. Dr. Zahm was for many years on the Notre Dame faculty, during which time he conducted the famous ex­periments in aviation that make him recognized as one of the ablest pioneers in that science. 
^^^^^^^^^^^^H^^^^ 
^^^^^^^^B^^r;':^: 
^^^^^^mUs^i^--^, 
^^^^^^^^K^A^-.^-;-­
^^^^^^^^H^^^^^^~'­^^^^^^^^^1^^ b.^"^«^B ^••.•:!>B 
^•11^ 
^^^^^^B:-' ''W "'VL^^H 
'' t'^^^H 
^^^^^^^^^^^EIT^ 
•^•i^sS' ^^^H
^^^^^^^^^^^^HK'>-' 
^^^^^^^^^^^K^''-^ 
^^^^^^Kj 
FRANK C. WALKER/or Vzce-Pres/rfejif 
Times have chanced since Fnink C. Walker, 
LL. B. 1909. was voted the questionable hcnor of second laziest man in the Class. His activities as partner and attorney in the Amalgamated Theatres, a chain of theatrical interests operat­inK from IGOO Broadway. New York City, have erased the deceptive easinef^ of manner that he probably brought from Butte. Mont., as a stu­dent. He has been an officer and active member of the N. D. Club of New York. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS April, 1930 
ff^ine of Memories 
By SISTER MONICA, A.B., M.A., PH.D. School of Broivn County Vrsulines, St. Martin, Ohio. 
N
OTEE DAME NIGHT! It brings a picture: the dome outlined on a purple sky as it used to look to us thronging from Washington Hall of a Saturday even­ing, when "Notre Dame" herself rose high up against the stars white, in­definite, half-lost in the vast behind her. If Father Sorin conceii'ed the idea of that symbol, he was psycholo­gist as well as poet and saint; and when Father Crumley suggested that two cross spotlights be thrown upon Our Lady from the two towers, he added just the perfect touch. 
It was a happy thought to open the University to the nuns. The immense estate of three thousand acres, wood­land and waters, with its great spaces of aloofness and retirement, create the happiest possible milieu for teach­ers' study: teachers who need to re­lax and recreate after their year's strain; teachers longing to withdraw to a spiritual atmosphere and recup­erate for a fray that is growing each year more arduous. One summer when I started in at Foi-dham, New York, chafing every day to myself against the publicity and noise of the "L" and Subways, the Dean of Fordham, read­ing my mind, said to me, "Sister, go on back to Notre Dame. That is where you belong!" He never said a truer thing. 
The very first summer, that of 1918, our nuns drove up the campus, star­ing at the unusual buildings. We felt very small. We glanced over the in­tellectual menu. There was a leisure­liness that reassured us. In those days there was no formality; no standing in long, impatient line all morning and then again all after­noon while noise of battle rolled. We thought we might try something. I remember ventui-ing that I had begun to do some Dante study,—^perhaps psychology? Somebody or other's psychology . . . 1 Father Shnmacher looked at me quietly and replied that there was no Italian listed for that summer. But what he might have told me and did not was that at Notre Dame they possess the third largest Dante collection in America. It was characteristic of the place. Notre Dame has riches untold. It is not their way to do the telling. You dis­cover for yourself. 
Now that the enrollment is creep­
ing up into the thousands you w^ill 
scarcely believe how different life was 
on the campus those first years. The 
athletes and Eockne think they built 
up the University^. No. From the 
day the poor struggling sisters walked 
in, Notre Dame lifted up her head. 
This is the House the Sisters Built. 
The first summer there were eighty-
six; when in the first class to receive 
degrees I got my M.A., there were 
just three of us, scared to death; but 
now the candidates ascend the plat­
form in a long, long file. There are 
many light hearts on the campus to­
day, but there is little of the childlike 
abandon we had when the family was 
small. Can you imagine our merri­
ment when we nuns, quiet as the even­
ing to which Wordsworth likens us, 
first knocked the cap off the bedpost 
in Walsh Hall and found it full of 
cigarette stumps? After that the 
fire escape naturally fell into use; and it was whispered that others pranks— pei-haps selling electric bulbs or text books to buy ice cream at the little cafeteria—were being tried out. The first thing Sister A. would do each summer was to survey the premises with a sniff and then fall-to with her scrubbing brush. "Brown County Flat," at the chapel-end of Walsh, second floor front, settled down into a regular entailed family estate. 
Sorin Hall ne.vt door was full of noisy boys, but we kept our own tenor. We used to smile in class when Father O'Donnell, the poet, would roar out masterfully, "Mr. McGroghan, tell me . . . ." and immediately after relax to unctuous politeness with "Sis­ter Mary Angelita, please . . . ." Lion to lamb, it was versatile. 
Then, there was the evening the burglar got into Walsh Hall during benediction and struck a Sister over the head; sudden and swift we all discovered there were Catholic boys on that campus, furious as tigers. Every night the rest of the summer they kept vigil outside, those dear lads, lest the nuns feel nervous after such an experience. And we slept. God bless them! 
Would you believe it, once in the early days there was a Keception. The Silver Jubilee of the Treasurer was celebrated one July evening in 
the big adimnistration parlor. You put on your best guimpe and pocket handkerchief, for Father Cavanaugh, the president, had invited faculty and students to rejoice together in a social way. Telegrams and letters wei-e read, speeches made, followed by goodly converse, carried off with a touch of southern hospitality in Father Cavanaugh's happiest vein. The occasion showed the cream of gracious manner and kindliness that are heritage to the place. 
But you of the present, you who 
feel yourself a mite in the crowded 
doorway of the big church at bene­
diction, you know not what you miss 
from days when there was room and 
to spare, with lovely shadowy spaces 
beneath those pillars; no kneeling on 
the outside steps. The high arch over 
the altar would break into light; Dr. 
Middleschulte would touch the first 
deep pedal of the organ, while into 
the sanctuary, two and two, would 
troop all the Holy Cross Faculty of 
the University to benetKction in the 
sanctuaiy stalls. That was a moment 
incomparable, a moment divine. You 
knelt. You were one with that row 
of sincere, humble-hearted men; the 
same that sat in judgement upon you 
all day in class. Now all were merged 
in the glow of the monstrance with its 
Host; children in the school of faith. It is this fundamental unity at Notre Dame that strengthens and speeds you foi-th each year. 
It was a great thing to watch the summer school build up; organize and develoj) and shape a definite policy, standard, spirit; efficiency, financial and academic, rounded it all out wth cinematical smoothness. Presto! here was a graduate school of hundreds; an undergraduate school multiplying. 
Everybody is your friend. Perhaps in crowded cities you find stiffness and reserve among the communities, but here there is always somebody glad to see you; always something to say; always somebody to help and somebody to be helped; all one body, one sisterhood, one grand struggle, one single triumph. This spirit per­vaded Notre Dame from the begin­ning; long may it last. 
"It's easy to see where the Sisters' sympathies lie," remarked a professor ruefully the morning after he had served on a public examination for a doctorate; "they'll stand by each other eveiy time; and they'll stand against the professor." Poor pro­fessor. 'Tis a mean trade, at best. He sometimes tastes of the biscuit of the underdog. But just as well; too much admiration and awe never was good for any mere man. 
Still, he gets a-plenty. 
An old Irish sister at our house 
used to say, "Yes, I've wintered yez, 
and I've summered yez, and I know 
yez." Similarly, I've known Notre 
Dame; I've wintered it and summered 
it; and those of our generation will 
never be gainsaid in holding that as 
teachers many of its faculty would 
be hard to surpass on any staff. Sim­
plicity marks its priests and Brothers. 
Not ha\"ing previously known the Holy Cross Congregation, we were in the beginning at a loss to define the impression they gave us. "I know what it is," exclaimed one of our nuns at last; "I know now what it is that I see in the faces of these men. They all look like men that meditate. They have the eyes of men that meditate," Believe it or not, the aloofness of Notre Dame has had its advantages; it creates a distinctive quality. 
And the University will unfold still more; there are good things to come, things we may be glad of; perhaps more and better seminar work; bet­ter seminar rooms; a more desirable policy on the thesis question; more security and certainty; perhaps fewer theses, higher standards. We may possibly hope for a class registration that is more carefully discriminated; a more liberal auditing; better stand­ardization of examination i-equire­ments; a very millenium; who knows? Millions for endo«-ment; what has be­come of Aladdin's lamp? 
Notre Dame was a special Provi­dence to me. Personally, I am pleased to announce that her latest inspira­tion to me will soon be embodied in tangible form. For my new book, "The Cross in the Wilderness," Long­mans Green and Company, New York, April, 1930, has had behind it the strong genial encouragement of the Provincial, Dr. James Burns; and it is with pride that I have inscribed on its dedicatory page: "To the Univers­ity of Notre Dame, Indiana," I trust that every good Notre Dame man will read the book and pass it on to non-Catholics for whom it was, to a large extent, written. 
As I sit at the window in my nun's cell this Notre Dame Night, my beads slip listlessly from my fingers; I vision the dome against the sky; the statue of Our Lady; and I am one with all the hearts making merry to­night. To me is the wine of mem­ories, beaded bubbles winking at the brim. "Yet might I of Jove's nectar sip, I'd not exchange!" 
Grade Requirements 
Bij SK. M. PIUS 

At a business meeting of the Women's Club of the University of Notre Dame held in the summer of 1929, a tentative program was ar­ranged for the educational confer­ence of the club, in 1930. 
A plan of work was suggested; the ultimate object of which is a uni­form curriculum of studies for grade and high school teachers in our Cath­olic pedagogical schools, which will at the same time meet the existing de­mands of the various states in which these schools are located, and have room for courses growing out of the particular needs of Catholic teachers. 
Accordingly, committees were ap­pointed. The committee for the sur­vey of grade requirements is com­posed of: Sister M. Pius, C.S.C., Chairman, Sister 31, Lucia, C.P., Sis­ter M. Presentation, H.H.M., Sister 
M. Angelicia, S.S.J, and Sister M. Roberta, O.S.U. associate members. 
In order to make the survey, a uni­form method of tabulation was agreed upon at a previous meeting. The United States was divided into five sections, allotting one section to each of the five members. After each mem­ber has procured a detailed tabulation of requirements in her prescribed number of states she will forward the result of her findings to the one selected to make an analysis of the program of study, emphasizing the outstanding differences in require­ments. The paper will then be pre­pared and read at the conference of 1930. 
Teachers' Requiremenk 
By Sr. Margaret Marie 

At a meeting of the Women's Club of the University of Notre Dame Alumni in Brownson Hall of the Ad­ministration Building, Notre Dame, August 2, 1929, President Sister M, Eleanore, C.S.C., appointed Sister Margaret Marie, C.S.C, chairman of the committee to investigate and sum­marize the requirements for teachers' licenses in the secondary schools of the United States. The other mem­bers of the committee, appointed at the same time, are Mother M. Sophia, O.M.; Sister Isabella Marie, S.L.; Sister M. Godfrey, S.N.D., and Sister Mary John, O.P. 
The object of the study is to provide the school of education in the Uni­versity with information concerning courses in education most frequently required by state departments of pub­lic instruction, in order that Notre Dame might better understand the needs of Catholic teacher-students as based on the requisites for licenses in the various states. Heretofore a faculty's academic training and expe­rience were presented to the accredit­ing agencies when formal recognition of a school was desired; but lately the technical requirement of licensing the faculty has been added. Many stu­dents desire not only to take advan­tage of the offerings at Notre Dame but also to meet tecJinicai require­ment, for which reason they have re­quested that the University make available for them the necessary courses. 
The committee has endeavored to gi-oup the various courses which probably do not carry a distinction in subject matter in order to prevent an overlapping: for in many instances the title of courses vary although the content is practically the same. Prin­ciples of Teaching is required in twenty-four states, Educational Psy­chology in sixteen. Special Methods in thirteen. History of Education in sue, and Administration in four. 
Observation and Practice Teaching are required in twenty-four states, the number of hours ranging from ten periods to seven semester hours; four­teen states, however, designate three semester hours as preferable. In some instances specific courses are not listed and the requirement is stated merely "eighteen hours in education." Eleven states require eighteen hours in education, fourteen require fifteen hours, and four require twelve, where­as others range from no special edu­cation requirement to twenty-seven hours in one state. 
The study makes obvious the fact that a few essential courses in educa­tion are generally required for teach­ers' licenses and that the additional hours listed by some Departments of Public Instruction do not embrace widely different studies but additional training in the fundamental subjects. 
QH»|(HIf»IIHHtM(IIMHMtIIJIMIIIMIMI)II»lltl)lll)ltlllllM •IIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIMllllll tlillllllllllllilllltllDIIIKIIIIllllllllllllllll ..Q 
;ATHLETICS: 
iiiliiiiiiiiiiiiillil 

S' iiialiitiiiiDtiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiii 
Sport Activities 
By JOHN 

O
UTSIDE of several entries in the Illinois Relays and a picked squad which participated in an international track meet in Hamilton, Ont.jCanada, there was very little ac-ti%-it}' to interest the sport enthusiasts during the month. 
Practice sessions in all of the major sports continued at full speed however. Assistant Coach Hunk -Anderson pared his huge squad of 255 spring footballers down to a mere 125 just before the final exams. Coach George Keogan administered his final cut to the baseball group prior to the initial game of the sea­son and the spring trip which is to take the diamond nine through Geor­^ a and Florida this season. 
BASEBALL Weather conditions permitting Keo­gan plans to send his charges through the first game of the year on April 14 against a team from Armour Tech of Chicago. Almost 100 candi­dates reported for the 1930 edition of the baseball team and of a neces­sit}' most of their pi-actices have been inside the fieldhouse, cold weather and dampness forcing the ball tossers to .stay within Three capable infielders will be fighting for the honor of holding down the third base position this sea­son. D'Keefe, Mahoney, and Heenan are the out-standing applicants for the "hot corner" job. Sullivan and Feehery, the latter a hard hitting varsitj' outfielder last year, are the likely looking candidates for the first base position. Feehery has been moved to the infield in order to as­sure plentj' of material for a snappy inner combination. .A.skew, utility second baseman last season and per­haps the fastest man on the squad, Dufi'y, guardian of the keystone bag for the Freshman nine last year, or Hooley Smith will receive the call from Keogan for the post this spring. 
Joe Palermo, varsity shortstop last season is certain of holding down that job again. Francis, Moran, and Nolan are the best looking candidates for the outfield positions. Keogan does not expect any serious trouble ^\^th his pitching staff which will probably be composed of Lisicki, Mannix, Dil­
 iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiii •lliiliiiiiiiiilitlliiiilllllliiii " 
Stride Light Note 
 KIENER, '32 
ley, Palt, Del Prete, Wise, and D. Smith. Captain Lordi, Kolski and Dolan \\ill undoubtedly bear the re­ceiWng burden for the Fighting Irish ball tossers this spring. 
The southern trip will begin on April 19 and e.xtends to the 26th. It includes two games each with the University of Florida at Gainesville on the 19 and 21, Fort Penning at Columbus, Ga., on the 23 and 24, and Georgia Tech at Atlanta on the 25 and 2G The first home game of the regular season is scheduled for May 10 against the Iowa nine. 
TRACK The Notre Dame two-miie ti-ack relay team was victorious at the Il­linois Relays on March 15, surprising eveiyone, even themselves, by win­ning in the greatest walk-away of the meet. Brant Little gave Joe Quigley a fifteen yard advantage at the start. Abbott running third was given near­ly a thirty-five yards lead, and Alex Wilson, running anchor, took the baton fifty yards out in front. AIe.\ i-an his usual heady race and picked up his share of yardage to win by nearly a quarter of a lap over the favorite. Northwestern. The time was 7:58 2/5 with Chicago trailing in third. The one-mile relay team took second in their heat but the time recorded failed to give them a place in the final results. 
Bailie took third in the low hurdles after failing to place in the highs. Boagni failed to qualify in the finals of the 75-yard dash. 
On March 19th, the one-mile team copped third place at Hamilton, Ont. New York U. was first and Hamilton All Stars came in second. It was an easy win for N. Y. U.; a Hamilton man dropped his baton and Bradley, running second for Notre Dame, slipped and lost much valuable yard­age. Micky McBeth, freshman, won the special GOO-yard run. Little placed second to the famous Dr. Paul Martin in the special 1000-yard run after a close race. 
Outside of those few entries Coach Nicholson's boys have been resting somewhat for a sturdy outside season which begins with the Kansas relays on April 18. 
• 13 
FOOTBALL 

Hunk -Anderson and Jack Chevigny have been sending the spring foot­ballers through their paces pending the delayed return of Coach Rockne. They have reached the stage where the hundred odd members of the squad have been divided into four distinct and separate outfits. Three of them are named, "Pittsburgh," "Southern Methodists," and "Carnegie Tech." These teams consist of two "elevens" each, and for several weeks will drill exclusively on the style of play employed by the teams whose names they bear. The fourth squad is one numbering about 40 men. It is the "spring i-arsity" and includes the outstanding men of last year and a few additions from the 1929 fresh­man eleven. 
The Students Activities Council held another boxing tournament on April 11 for the purpose of selecting the campus championships in the various classes. The first tourna­ment of this sort was held on March 14 and over a thousand students gathered around the ring which was erected on the basketball court to watch twelve corking good bouts Another successful round of fights like the initial lot will undoubtedly form the opening signs of boxing be­ing reinstated as a varsity sport. 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT, APRIL 21 
1930 BASEBALL SCHEDULE 
(Tentative) 

.\pril U—Armour Tech at N. D. April 19-26—(Southern Trip) U. of 
Kloriila (2) : GcorKia Tech (2). anil 

Fl. BenninK (2). .April :J0—Wisconsin at Madison. May ."—Michigan State at E. Lansin;r. ^[ay 10—Iowa at Notre Dame. May 1:1—Northwestern at Notre Dame, ^tay 10—Illinois at Urbana. May 1"—Northwestern at Evanston. May 20—Bradley at Notre Dame. May 23—L-jther at Dscorah. Iowa. May 2-1—Iowa at Iowa City. May 2G—Michiiian State at N. D. May oO—Wisconsin at Notre Dame. May SI—Navy at Notre Dame. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 245 
B 
llllllltMIMIIIM||tlllltll»llttlllllllllllltllll>Jlltlllllllllllltt|llllll>l»|l||IM|||||||tM|||M|||MIIMMII*Mi»WJIHMIIlM|ll>llfll>H«>MM>Mlllllll^ 
^THE ALUMNA 
B 
•iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii • •••lit! Illllllllllllllllllll iiQ 
Deaths I 

FERDINAND E. KUHN, B.S. 1883, president of the Notre Dame Club of Nashville, prominent in Notre Dame and all Catholic activities throughout the South, died at St. Thomas Hospital, Nashville, on Mon­day, March 17. Mr. Kuhn had been ill several months. 
Mr. Kuhn retired last fall when the shoe firm, Kuhn, Cooper and Geary, of which he was president, was dissolved. He was founder of the organization, which gi-ew to be one of the leading shoe concerns of the city. 
FERDIXAND E . KUHN, '83 

"Father of the Knights of Colum­bus in the South" was the significant title confei-red upon Mr. Kuhn, who organized the Nashville Council, and later other councils throughout that section. He was active in other civic affairs, and was a native of Nashville. 
.A wife, Jlrs. Katherine Wall Kuhn (sister of F. X. Wall), 2004 Terrace Place, and ten children, Casper, Kath­erine, -Agnes, Vincent, Barbara, Ma­rie, Dudley, Hubert, Ferdinand E. Jr. of Pontiac, Mich., and Oliver Kuhn, of Tampa, Fla., survive him. 
-A letter from Harry Claiborne, secretary of the Notre Dame Club of Nash\'ille, says: "The Local Club of the Notre Dame -Alumni suffered an irreparable loss inasmuch as the Club was organized largely through his efforts, and his untiring zeal for Notre Dame was responsible for en­thusiastic meetings since its organiza­tion. I have never heard a greater tribute to anyone than the words—^I quote from Bishop A. J. Smith, at his funeral—^"He was an educated Cath­olic gentleman.'" 
-Another letter from the -Alumni Secretary of Vanderbilt University, which was across the road from Mr. Kuhn's home, says: "He was a fine fellow. He was your outstanding alumnus in these parts. He was the father of one of Vanderbilt's great quarterbacks (Oliver)." 
GEOEGE M. "EED" FITZPAT­RICK, monogram football and basket­ball man in '16-'17, who left Notre Dame with that illustrious group of athletes that joined the service in '17, died at his sister's home in -Alpena, Jlieh., on Saturday, March 8, after an attack of i)neumonia. 
He was buried from St. Bernard's Church, -Alpena, Mai-ch 11. His brother, Eev. Emmet Fitzpatrick, celebrated the Requiem Mass. Eev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16, a team­mate and roommate of the deceased preached the sei-mon, eloquent with the memories of the brief but vivid years that "Fitz" was on the campus. 
Playing his first year in 1916, he showed a versatility in the backfield that marked him as a man of unusual promise for the next two years. But he .left when war was declared, with Bergman, Murphy, Slackford, Mcln­erny. Grant, O'Hara, Meagher, Kas­per, and Coughlin, of the football team. 
For some years "Fitz" was coach of the Catholic Central High School team in Grand Rapids. -At the time of his death he was athletic coach at Dayton University. 
The -ALUMNUS is infoi-med through a note from Jlrs. William J. Towle, Sr., Minneapolis, of the death a year ago of WILLI.AM J. TOWLE, Sr., a student at Notre Dame in 1SS7. Mr. Towle was associated with the Log Cabin Products Company there. 
•J •:• 
I Engagements I .:• '> Mr. and Mrs. -A. E. Zuber, Chicago, have announced the engagement of 
their daughter, Florence, to GEORGE WILLLAM DAILEY, son of Mrs. George W. Dailey, 4431 N. Paulina St. Miss Zuber attended the -Art Institute. The wedding will take place this summer. 
Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Vaughn, Chica^ go, announce the engagement of their daughter, Helen Rose to WILLIAM FRANCIS CEONIN, of New York, formerly of Oak Park. Miss Vaughn is a graduate of St. Mary^s. Bill is with Hornblower & Weeks. The wedding will take place in May. 
TOMMY GORDON, '24, who is with the Standard Oil Co. in Chicago, is definitely reported to be contemp­lating a fall wedding, vnth Miss Mary O'Connell of South Hadley Falls, Mass., as the party of the second part. 
Mr. and Mrs. T. F. Murray, Bridge­port, Conn,, announce the engage­ment of their daughter Laura Mar­garet to ROBERT W. POWERS, JR., '29. 
1 Births 1 
* * The -ALUMNUS wants to take be­lated cognizance of the important ad­dition to the population of Montreal (56 St. Sulpice Road) of GER.ALD TIMMINS, JR. The original is Jerry Timmins, '26. 
Announcements Magazine carries an announcement "to the trade" by the firm of PAUL ('26) and M-AEY H.ABRINGTON of a new product, de­livered on March 25 by their Tech­nical Expert at St. Elizabeth's Hos­pital, and to be erected at B4, 19 Pingry Place, Elizabeth, New Jersey, on or after -April 15, for test and exhibit thereafter to friends of the firm. The ALUMNUS is sorry it cannot reproduce the clever an­nouncement in detail for the benefit of the chemists, among others. The description is good: The apparatus weighs .0041 tons; has two blue gage glasses, very large and clear, run-in­oil-universal Joints, golden matted rainshed on top, and very melodious safety valve rarely necessary v.-ith 
THE NOTBE DAME ALUHNUS Api-il, 1930 
reasonable care in use; is equipped with thermostatic control set at 9S.6 degrees fahrenheit; is well insulated; and is finished in flexible waterproof pink enamel verj-easj' to keep clean. 
The ALUMNUS has received a much less definite report of the birth of JOSEPH WILLIAM MURPHY, JR, bom March S, to Mr. and Mrs. Joseph W. Murphy, '27, Livingston Court, LaCrosse, Wis. 
JOSEPH O'DONNELL, '27, is the father of a second son, Charles, born in Chicago, March 14. Joe's first son, Michael, was bom March 13, 1929. Joe is with Mallard & Co., 105 W. Adams St. 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT, APRIL 21 
Marriages 

JOHN B. McMAHON, '09, Toledo, attorney and joint owner of the To­ledo baseball club, and Miss Ethel Evans of Pittsburgh, Pa., were mar­ried in the rectory of St. Lawrence Church in Pittsburgh, on Saturday, March S, according to an announce­ment in the Toledo Times. Mr. and Mrs. McMahon will make their home in Ann Manor, Scottwood Ave. and Bancroft St., following a short wed­ding trip. 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT, APRIL 21 
I Personals \ 
« « 
Dix 1878 Dix 1879 Dix 1880-Fifty Years Dix 1881 

The Dix plan of the Class Re­union is rather modern, and the ten­dency of the older Classes is to dis­regard it. But consider the situation in these Classes Unfortunately, the original group was small. And time has thinned oue even these few. It is the Golden Jubilee of the Class of '80. But under the Dix plan, nbt only does '80 come back to ob-sen-e this anniversary, but the Classes that were Seniors when 'SO was Sophomore, Juniors and Freshmen when '80 was Sophomore, return to join it. It seems to the Editor that the plan ought to appeal especially to the older and smaller groups. We want everyone from each of those four years back. 
1880-1885 Prof. Bobt. BL Andenon, Sterens Inst, of Tech, Hoboken, N. J. 
In connection %vith the very re­grettable death of FERDINAND E. KUHN, the -4LUMNUS reprints herewnth a photograph of the Class of '83. The cut was made from a print secured from the original by PROF. ANDERSON, as a half-tone could not be made from the original. 
The top row, from left to right, is Michael Donahue, A. M., Springfield, Mass.; William Arnold, A. B , A. M., Washington, D. C; William J. O'Con­nor, A. M. (Died Manchester, N. H., 
(Following is a very interesting communication from Dr. S. P. Terry. It was set in type for the ALUM­NUS last year, the fiftieth anniver­sary of the disastrous fire of '79, but because of the smaller size of the ALUMNUS and the press of U.N.D. Night and Commencement material, it was omitted. April 23, 1930, marks the fifty-first anniversarj'.) My Dear Armstrong: 
Just fifty years ago today the main building of the old college was com­pletely destroyed by fire, and while a half century has passed since that memorable event, yet I recall clearly and distinctly in connection with the main facts, many of the minute de­tails and incidents of the occasion. 
At that time our regular "Rec" day was on Wednesday but was changed to Thursday the following year. The fire occurred in the fore­noon of Wednesday, April 23, 1879, at a time when practically every stu­dent was on the campus, at the boat '07); Frank A. Quinn, A. M. Polona, 
III.
 (Died 1898); (Col ) Joseph P. O'Neil, B. S., Columbus, 0.; Albert 

F.
 Zahm, A. B., Huntington, Ind.;— seated: William J. McCarthy, B. S., Boonville, Mo.; John J. Malloy, A. B., Covington, Ky. (Deceased); Ferdi­nand E. Kuhn, B. S., Nashville, Tenn. (Deceased); Robert M. Anderson, B. S., Circleville, 0. 


The addres-ses given are the home addresses as students. 
house, or otherwise enjoying them­selves. Perhaps a half dozen includ­ing myself, had obtained permission to return to the senior study hall for the purpose of doing some extra work, but as soon as finished each boy would quietly retire to join his fellows in outside sports 
I was so intent on my work that I did not notice their <leparture, until I found myself entirely alone in the hall. At the same time I heard some confusion and other evi­dences of excitement outside, and stepping to a window I saw men running excitedly and making other demonstrations that convinced me something was wrong. This was about 11 o'clock. 
Hastily closing my desk I rushed cut and found the roof in flames and very soon it became evident that the fire was beyond control and the main building doomed to destruction. 
MART McCUE was then a student in his graduating year and doubtless 
Plan your Vacation 
via Southern Pacific SEE 
THE GREAT SOUTHWEST Cradleof American Hiatorv OLD MEXICO Of Spanish Heritage APACHE TRAIL Land of Aadquity CARRISO GORGE A n Abyss Colossal HOLLYWOOD Movieland MONTEREY PENINSULA PlavETOund of America YOSEMITEVALLEY Tourist's Paradise BIG TREES 
California** Giant 
Redwoods 
SAN FRANCISCO Gateway to the Orient AMERICAN RIVER CANYON A Camera Shot of 2000 Ft. GREAT SALT LAKE Where you "Go to Sea by Rail" 

trip now! 
F
OR years you've been thinking about that glorious vacation in the West. Put it off no longer! The thrills and wonders of the great South­west and Pacific Coast are rightfully yours to enjoy. The silent, desert, mountain lakes, foaming streams, majestic waterfalls. 
Only Southern Paciiic offers you a choice of four great routes to the Pacific Coast, with a vast network of con­necting lines that afford easy access to all points of scenic and historic interest. You can go one way, return another— thus getting the greatest amount of traveling experience from your trip. 
Golden State Route Sunset Route The direct line £rom Chicaso to New Orleans to San Dieso, Los 
Los Anceles. San Dieso (through Angeles, and San Francisco, offer-Carriso Gorge) and to Santa Bar. ine Apache Trail Highway side bara via Kansas City and El Paso. trip in Arizona. 
Shasta Route 

Overland Route 
Pacific Northwest to San Fran* (Lake Tahoe Line), shortest route Cisco via Portland, Crater Lake across the center of the continent, and Mount Shasta. For travelers crossiiiB Great Salt Lake by rail, to California over northern rail* 
over the Sierra Nevada, to San roads. Choice of two scenic lines Francisco. in Oregon. 
Send today for complimentary copy of booklet, "How Best to See the Pacific Coast." It will help you plan your itinerary ... tell you how to get the most for your travel dollar. Address: 
O. P. Bartlett, 310 S. Michigan Blvd., Chicago, or 
H. H. Gray. 531 Fifth Ave., New York City. 
=000" 
FREE! 
Thisbooklet^iliich tells how to seeall of the great Pacific Coast country. 

Southern Pacific 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS April, 1930 
remembers the circumstances more vividly than myself. 
His desk was in the southwest cor­ner of the senior study hall while my own was in front and to the left of the Prefect's station. McCUE, JOHN COLEMAN and FLORL\N B. DE­VOTO, were all located in the south­west comer at the same time, and each became a member of the faculty. AMBROSE HERTZOG, LUKE EV­ERS, J. J. SHUGRU, BILLY AR­NOLD, SAM PERLEY and other old students were seated in the north­east corner. But 1 fear I digress from the subject. 
The main building was totally des­troyed and the Infirmary and several other buildings were partially des­troyed. 
That night my chum THOMAS HALE (known as "Bunker Hill") and myself, with many others, slept in the old Washington Hall. 
The next day (Apl. 24) we were, all notified that because of no oc­commodations we would have to re­turn to our homes, but that new col­lege buildings would be ready for our return in September. Fortunately I had ample funds and I started for home immediately, my chum "Bunker Hill" accompanjing me to the Lake Shore train. I have never seen him since, but not long ago I received a good letter from him saying he was married, has several children and was prospering in the lumber and contracting business in Pryor, Okla­homa. It has been my pleasure and good fortune in the past few years to meet some of the old boys of 45 and 50 years ago and through them to learn of others, some living, but many having passed to their great reward. 
1890-1893 Louis P. Chute, 7 University Ave., Minneapolis, Minn. 

E. F. DU BRUL, who holds five de­grees from Notre Dame, was a speaker over the Westinghouse hour on the National Broadcasting Chain on March 25. The ALUMNUS had hoped to have more details before going to press. 
1894 
Hugh A. O'Donnell, The New York 
Times, New York City. 

New.s comes to the ALUMNUS that the Class Secretary is to broad­cast over Station WLWL on April 28 at 7:20 p. m. on "Catholic News in the Secular Press," This is the reg­ular Monday Evening Catholic Hour inaugurated by Cardinal Hayes dur­ing March. 
HUGH himself writes that VINCE ENGELS, '23, for some time a mem­ber of the University faculty, was one of the reception committee at the evening given by the Calvert As­sociates, Inc., at the Metropolitan Opera House on March 25 when Catholics, Protestants and Jewish organizations combined in honor of the convert Calvert of Maryland, who first established religious tolerance in America, and also as a protest against the atheistic movement in Russia. GEORGE SHUSTER, '15, Hugh adds, is managing editor of the Commonweal, publication of the Cal­vert Associates. Among his many other callers were PAT MOLLOY, GENE DUFFY, formerly of Scran­ton and now with the N. Y. Herald-Tribune, and PETE MORGAN, who is cutting quite a figure on the tracks in N. Y". representing the New Y'^ork Athletic Club. Revs. Charles L. O'Donnell, J. Hugh O'Donnell, and Thomas Kearney were in New Y'ork recently, he adds. 
Di.\ 1897 
Dix 1898 
Dix 1899 
Dix 1900 

The same remarks made for '7S-'S1 hold for those four Classes. And, as you have been reminded, JUDGE EGGEMAN, '00, is completing what will be an outstanding year in the history of the Association. There is no reason why this group can't be back lOO'/f. You are also expected to take part in the Field Mass on Friday, May 30, as representatives of the Spanish-American War era at the University. 
REV JOHN MAC NAMARA, '97, is at St. Joseph's Sanitarium, Mt. Clemens, Mich., convalescing from a serious illness of the winter. 
REV. JAMES H. McGINNIS, '00, for many years pastor of the Goshen, 
N. Y. parish, has been transferred to the pastorate of St. Mary's Church, the largest parish in Poughkeepsie, 
N. Y. 
1905 Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. La Salle St, Chicago, Illinois. 
A Silver Jubilee is not to be pa.ssed up lightly. From what the Editor knows of the Class of '05, its mem­bers should get together, if for no other reason, to experience the de­lightful surprise of how lightly twenty-five years has dealt with them, and to set an encouraging e.xample for the Class of '25, for in­stance, who are even now shuddering to think of their 5-year Reunion and not one of them in the White House. 
1908 Frank X. Cull, Bulkley BUg., Cleveland, Ohio. 

Significant of the splendid work being done by PROF. J. A. CAPARO in the electrical engineering depart­ment of the College of Engineering is the following: Out of twenty-six students in the senior class in elec­trical engineering last year, thirteen were selected to work for the General Electric Company. Out of eighteen Seniors this year, nine have been selected for work by the General Electrical Company and the rest have been taken by other organizations throughout the country. So this rep­resents a very high percentage for, from other universities where they graduate two or three hundred stu­dents in electrical engineering, they take only five or six. 
Prof. Caparo himself is married and has two prospective Notre Dame students. 
1909 
E. P. Cleary, P. O. Box 356, Momence, Illinois. 

The wooded islands of the beauti­ful Kankakee River—sister of the St. Joseph River—and whose early his­tories are closely interwoven by the exploits of Marquette, Joliet and many others, seems to be attracting several of our Alumni. VARNUM PARISH has one all for himself and family just West of Momence and FRANK RYDZEWSKI er.stwhile "big monogram man of N. D." has come down from the Windy City to take possession of the extensive Peterson Island East of Momence. 
1913 James R. Devitt, 921 Engineers BIdg., Cleveland, Ohio. 
COL. WILLIAM J. HOYNES is in receipt of the following interesting letter from the newly elected CON­GRESSMAN WILLIAM J. GRAN­FIELD, who is already a member of the Committee on Military Afi"airs of the House of Representatives: 
"Needless to say, the receipt of your congratulatory letter was a source of great satisfaction to me. was very much pleased to hear from you. I am very happy to know that my recent political victory gave you pleasure. 
"Many times since my graduation I have thought of you and, a few years ago, when I returned to Notre Dame, I made an eff'ort to locate you. Father Walsh told me at that time that you were in Chicago. 
"I trust you are enjoying good 
!(? Succession 
Bachrach 

WARREN GAMALIEL HARIIIXC CAL\7X COOLIDCE 
"The kiuij is dead..." ...long live the king!" 
JOHN" C. COOLICCE 
Justice of tlie Peace 
In the summer of 1923, his term of office half complete, his cabinet not yet discredited, War­ren Gamaliel Harding, 29th U. S. President, was prostrated by ptomaine poisoning, complicated by bronchial pneumonia. For days the country waited anxiously, and on August 2nd, doctors became confident of recovery. .. . As TIME, in part, reported subsequent events: 
.. . Tov/ards evening the President seemed in good health. Mrs. Harding and a woman nurse were with him. Mrs. Hardintc was reading aloud. Without warn­ing a tremor shook his frame and he collapsed. Phy­sicians were summoned. It was announced that the President had died of cerebral apoplexy at 7:30 p.m.. Pacific time. . . . 
In the early morning hours of August 3 an auto­mobile full of newspaper correspondents sped over Vermont roads to Plymouth Notch at the southern end of the Green Mountains. It drew up at the two-story, white frame house of John C. Coolidge, father of the Vice President. Word was sent upstairs of the tremendous news from San Francisco. The Vice President had retired for the night. In a few moments he had dressed and descended the stairs with his wife. The scene was in effect, if not in words, a representation of the ancient theme: "The King is dead; long live the King!" 
In an unpretentious New England living room Mr. Coolidge, pale, and silent, read the telegrams telling of President Harding's death. Then he slowly dictated a statement expressing his sorrow, and his intention of carrying out the policies of his prede­cessor, and also a telrfgram of condolence and sym­pathy to Mrs. Harding, signed "Calvin Coolidge; Grace Coolidge." 
The next morning, the oath of oESce having been wired from Washington, Calvin Coolidge was sworn in as President of the United States, by his father, a Justice of the Peace. . . . 
Cultivated Americans, impatient with cheap sensationalism and windy bias, turn increasingly to publications edited in the historical spirit. These publica­tions, fair-dealing, vigorously impartial, devote themselves to the public weal in the sense that they report what they see, serve no masters, fear no groups. 
TIME 
77ie Weekly Newsmagazine 
health. It is my intention to make the trip to Notre Dame this fall, and I shall probably attend the Navy Dedication game. I shall look you up in the hope that we can ilo a little reminiscing." 
1916 — Copy under '19. 
1917— 
Copy under '19. 

1918— 
Copy under '19 

1919— 
The Dix Reunion of the Classes of '16, '17, 'IS and '19, brings to­gether the four Classes of the Uni­versity probably most affected by the World War. As the Commencement exercises this year begin on Memorial Day, May 30, plans have been an­nounced whereby the Mass for De­ceased Alumni, an annual feature of Commencement, will take the form of the traditional Memorial Field Mass, to be celebrated at the World War Memorial Door of Sacred Heart Church on Friday morning. May 30, by the Rev. Charles L. O'Donneli, C.S.C., '06 president of the Univer­sity, a chaplain during the World War. 
Definite plans will, of course, be announced in the May ALUMNUS. But in the meantime, all members of these Classes are urged to plan to be at Notre Dame for this Mass. 
The ALUMNUS suggests that the Secretaries of these Classes unite to promote a combined dinner sometime during that week-end, as this par­ticular group has many things in common besides those unusual times at Notre Dame. 
Tim Gahin, '16, and Chick Bader, '19, representing the extremes, are close enough to make arrangements. John Lemmer, '18, and John Riley, '17, representing, shall we say, the means, ought to be able to prevent any sizeable gap between. 
There are approximately 350 avail­able members of the four Classes 
1920 Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black Bldg, Los Angeles, Calif. 

A letter from WILLIAM J. SHERRY and some subsequent cor­respondence locates him at 841 Ken­nedy Bldg., Tulso, Okla. 
AL RYAN was summoned for a Directors' meeting April 5, but a let­ter from Detroit stated that he had just completed a five weeks' trip in the East and was leaving immedately for an extended trip in the West that would prevent his attendance. 
VINCENT F. FAGAN has won a great deal of pi-aise for his design of the new ?12o,000 All Saints Church, Hammond, which was dedicated on March 30 by the Rt. Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., LL.D. '15, Bishop of Fort Wayne. All Saints is the home parish of the Gal\-ins and the Che\'ignys. The new church is stone trimmed brick, in Tudor Gothic style of arch­itecture. 

1921 AMen J. Cusick, 530 Grant St., Denver, Colorado. 

Another card comes back to AL CUSICK, from CLYDE A. WALSH, Campus, 111.: "Your card mis-laid. Nothing of importance—waiting for the Farm Board to inci-ease our pi'ofits (?). Glad to note the contrib from OBIE , and wish him luck. JIM O'TOOLE still single—nothing on me —wolves are quite numerous out here and approach too close to the old hearth. Why not a little biography of AL CUSICK? Have good inten­tions of joining some group for the Big Night in April." 
BILL ALLEN writes to say that he sees JUDGE VURPILLAT every once in a while, still in the office of the Corporation in Chicago, for abil­ity and not politics, Bill adds, "He is a good laAvyer." To which Al ap­pends, "And to this Andy would say to Amos, Check and double check." 
Bill also mentioned MORRIE STAERETT, "He leads an ideal existence. Follows the football team every Fall. Neither of us was able to get into the Stevens after the So. Cal. game on account of the crowd, so we talked for about three hours and he told me more about the team, etc., than I ever expected to hear." 
BILL also says that he heard Father Fulton Sheen lecture recently, and that TOM is back in this coun­try again in St. Vincent's hospital in New York. He also reports seeing JIMMIE MURTAUGH, PAUL CON­AGHAN and JIM SANFORD fre­quently. About himself he says little —^'I have no news except my new home address which is 1408 Elmdale Ave. David is over a year and a half now and is husky .... I have just looked over the pictures of our Class in the Dome. They look just as familiar as ever, but I would like to hear from a lot of them I haven't seen or heard of in a long time." 
1922 Gerald Ashe, 1024 Monroe Av e Rochester. N. Y. 
You may have a chance to write to your own '22 Congressman. CLAR­ENCE "PAT" MANION has filed for the Democratic nomination in the 13th District, Indiana. Pat has an ujihill climb, but when he pulls the various tricks of history, law and oratory out of his sleeve, a great many people be­lieve it will be enough to make the grade. Details will appear elsewhere in this issue. 
1923 Paul Castner, 803 N. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 
GERRY RANDALL was made assistant trust officer of the First Na­tional Bank and Trust Co., Flint, Mich., in a recent promotion. He has been with the bank since 1927, when he came there from the First National Bank in Bay City. 
1924 James F. Hayes, 358 Fifth Ave., New York City. 
.4. note from Mingo Junction, Ohio, bears the interesting legend DR. J. C.AV.A., 646 Commercial St. 
1925 John W. ScaUan, Pnllman Co., 79 W. Adams St., Chicago, 111. 
At Last! ScaUan Reports! In Person! 
On the eventful night of April 1 (I had my suspicions of it too, but it worked on schedule) the Class Sec­retary paid his Secretarial visit. With the Alumni Secretary, he cor­ralled such birds of the Class as are addicted to that gilded cage that was once the Oliver caf. 
Bill Voor, whose rise as a young South Bend attorney has already brought him the title "The Dudley Field Malone of South Bend," fur­nished the office space for a session after the quaint old '25 custom of nourishment had been indulged. Tom Coman, the political barometer of the South Bend Neics-Times, joined the party. Paul Sagstetter, who is con­ducting the business of Holycross and Nye (no connection with the C.S.C), automobile accessories, was on hand. Jerry Holland, Sunday editor of the Neivs-Times, bonvivant, (one of the last survivors) of the old school, was lured into partial par­ticipation. And as the party was breaking up at an unbelievable hour of 9 o'clock (p. m.), the elusive Jo­seph Hogan was caught at a neigh­boring comer. 
Now from this extemporaneous round-up emerged a Reunion Pro­gram that, WITH YOUR SUPPORT, will set up a new altitude record in Class Reunions. 
Don't get the anti-Reunion complex 
Towers, Medinah Athletic Club and Tribune Building, Chicago. Both Indiana LimeAione 
THE NEW CHICAGO "Carved from Stone" 
S
HERWOOD ANDERSON ("Triumph of the Egg," "Dark Laughter," etc.) in Chicago after an eight-year absence, marveled at that city's new buildings. His comment: "They seem to be carved from stone." The public has indicated its approval of natural stone structures and has "said it with dollars." Indiana Limestone buildings, according to sur\'eys, have a better than average rental attraction. This certain "drawing power" of the stone building, to­gether with the speed of construction which stone makes possible, explains the amazing swing to Indi­ana Limestone in commercial building. Also, this fine-grained, light-colored natural stone requires no costh" cleaning. Age but enhances its appeal. So modern business, simply from the doUars-and-cents standpoint, regards Indiana Limestone with favor. Let us send you an illustrated brochure showing various types of Indiana Limestone buildings. Or a volume showing residences. Address Box 823, Service Bureau. Bedford, Indiana. 
INDIANA LIMESTONE COMPANY 
Qeneral Offices: Bedford, Indiana Executive Offices: Tribune Tower, Chicago 
A SURGEON A UNIVERSITY A TRUST COMPANY 
are selected with discriminittion. Travel plans 
should be made with equal care. 
University Travel, directed by Dr. H. H. 
Powers for more than thirty years, has built 
up a staff of trained experts. 
Motor Trips are oITerod In England, France, 
Germany. 
The Ven;ilian Cruise in the comfortable City 
of Paris will follow the route of Aeneas with 
many of the best known classical scholars. 
Diversified Tours under scholarly leadership 
include places of both usual and unusual In­
terest in Europe and the far comers of the 
world. 
Announcements sent on retiuest. 
The Bureau of University Travel 

SS Boyd Street Newton, Mass. 
that seems to be specking the pages of current collegiate literature. Re­unions at Notre Dame never have been, and never will be, like those more or less picturesque affairs that are really suffering injustice from the caricatures of uninformed sen­sationalists. 
Our reunions are conducted on the same basis that marks the reunion of two or three classmates after an ap­preciable absence. Just multiply the pleasure of seeing one or two of the fellows you knew on the campus when you meet them after two or three years, by the two hundred or more that .4-RE GOING TO BE B.A.CK FOR THIS FR^E YEAR RE­UNION, and you'll have a more ac­curate idea of what a Notre Dame reunion can be. 
Discussions first rested on doing away with all organized effort. But that was abandoned in favor of just enough organization so that you'll have something to keep you busy all the time you're here without taking up so much time that you won't be able to follow the quaint old Spanish custom. 
So, as it stands now, the Greatest Reunion Program is: 
Friday—-A.RRIVE. That's the big thing. Register in the Alumni Office, where for five years the Class has been propagandized as the Univer­sity's national championship Class. A Field Mass will be held Friday morn­ing. A baseball game will be held 
Local Alumni Club Meetings 
Send Notice of Meetings of Clubs Not Listed to Alumni Secretary, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
CLEVELAND: Mondays—year round luncheon meetings—^the Allerton 
NEW YORK CITY: Thursdays-luncheon meetings—Fraternity Club, 22 East 38th Street. 
CHICAGO: Fridays, 12:00—luncheon meetings—Ivory Room, Mandel's. 
DETROIT: Thursdays—luncheon meetings—12:30—Frontenac Inn, 42 Monroe Avenue. 
PITTSBURGH: Thursdays—12:15—Gimbel's Dining Room, 6th Avenue and Smithfield Street. 
LOS ANGELES: Wednesdays—lnncheon—12:15—University Club. 
CINCINNATI: First and third Tuesdays of each month—12:15 noon ­Broadway Hotel. 
NEW JERSEY: Monthly meeting—7:30 p. m.—First Monday—New­ark Athletic Club. 
INTER-MOUNTAIN: Monthly luncheon—First Tuesday—University Club, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
KENTUCKY: Generally the second Tuesday of each month—different locations. Call H. R. Dempf, 400 M. E. Gaylor Bldg., Louisville. 
WABASH VALLEY: Four times yearly—January, April, October, December—Fowler Hotel, Lafayette, Indiana. Call H. R. Kamp, 1207 Wells Street 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY: Monthly luncheon meeting-Last Monday. 
Call Dudley Shively, Associates Bldg., South Bend. 
DES MOINES: Monthly meeting—no regular date. Call Carleton Beh. 
JOLIET: Monthly meeting—First Tuesday. Call Edward King, 301 Ruby Street, for details. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA: Monthly luncheon-first Tuesday—Clift Hotel, San Francisco. 
FOET WAYNE: Monthly dianer—no definite date. Call John W. Eggeman, president, or Thomas McKieman, secretary. 
EOCHESTEE: First and third Wednesdays—12:15—Chamber of Com­merce Private Dining Room. 
SYEACUSE: Monthly luncheon—second Wednesday, 12:15—Schraft's. 
Ajiril, 1930 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
Friday afternoon with Wisconsin. FRIDAY NIGHT, 7 P. M., OLIVER HOTEL, REUNION DINNER. Bill Voor is in charge of arrangements for this affair. 
Saturday—GOLF TOURNAMENT. Enough of you have reached the necessary stage of affluence and lei­sure, so bring your Clubs and find out which section of the country has the best courses, liars, etc. The tour­nament will begin at 9:30. Sagstet­ter is in charge. Saturday night, fol­lowing the Alumni Banquet, which­ever Hall is fortunate enough to house the returned members, will be the gathering place for an informal production, the theme song of which will undoubtedly be the "Toreador Song." 
Sunday—1925 REUNION MASS. Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., pres­ident of the University when the Class was in school has consented to say a special Mass, probably in Sorin Chapel. 
Now, if you come back, and take part in those activities and the two baseball games, the Alumni Banquet, and the Commencement exercises, you'll have three days that it seems to those sun-eying the outlook will be a satisfactory marker at the five-year post. And if the plain and 
EI"" 
fancy throwing that will be done is included, you ought to have a mental hang-over that will last you until the Dix Reunion in 1933. 
There were no alibis when the Class was in school. There won't be any alibis in June. 
And, try as the Committee might, there seemed to be little place for wives in the program. This is in­serted at great personal risk for the benefit of those whose wives might be misled about the co-educational features of a Class Reunion. But don't let that keep you home The girls %rill enjoy the various addresses, concerts, entertainments, and the beautiful campus. And there will be a number of Reunion TOdows in South Bend to show them about. 
1926 Gerald W. Hayes, Youngstown Sheet and Tube Co., Evanston, III. 
The Class Secretary, who is now the night plant doctor for the Youngs­town Sheet and Tube Co., Evanston, while winding up his medical course at Northwestern, was down recently for a brief visit, and promised to try to take enough time out of his 24-hour businesses to stir up the column. When he does, he does. And when he doesn't, anyone who knows anyone 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiitit 

who is studying medicine will know^ why. 
1927 Edmand De aeicq, 82N S. Ellis Ave, 
CUeagOk n., Seoetmry. 

JOE O'DONNELL, who contributes a son to the Births this month, also wants to hear from TOMMIE GREEN. 
BERNIE EPSTEIN is with the Henry Bosch Co., in Chicago. 
RUPE WENTWOBTH, St. Stanis­laus College, Bay St. Louis, Miss., "the school of character," was stirred by last month's ALUMNUS to the following: Dear Jim: 
Judging from the last issue of the ALUMNUS the "noted un-noted Class of 1927" has experienced noth­ing short of a resurrection, or are the shades of that almost-forgotten group communicating from some subter­ranean vaults where they have been lying in mold and mildew for the past three years? 
-At any rate while gently perusing the clever contribution of "Shade" BILL CARTER, 1 was suddenly struck by my own name in the bold, black type along with that of RAY FLANAGAN. Now for the benefit of Bill Carter, I would have him 
THE OSBORN ENGINEERING CO. 
7016 EUCLID AVE. CLEVELAND, OHIO 
ENGINEERS AND ARCHITECTS 
Designers of the New Notre Dame Stadium 
TWENTY YEARS EXPERIENCE 
Twenty-four Stadiums and Athletic Fields Fourteen Baseball Parks Five Fair Qround Grandstands 
WE WILL BE GLAD TO FURNISH REFERENCES 
BMtHtllltlllllllllllltlllttlllllllUinlllMllllllltlllllllllllllllUi llllllllltllllllllllllltllilllllllllltllllllltllltti 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS April, 1930 
-Johi Hancock Seria ­
Can she wait for the courts to decide? 
A N the event of your death, the transfer of your funds or prcpertj- invoWng j-our signature must be handled through the courts. Has j'our "Rife the ready cash to live on for an in­definite period, to say nothing of taking care of certain inevitable expenses, and other pressing ob­ligations? 
A way to prevent the sacrifice of some of the valuable holdings in your estate is to provide a fund, immediately' available through a John Hancock life insurance poIic}% sufficient to cover all con­tingencies. 
LIFE INSURANCECoMR 
or SOXTOR. HusACHUssns 
Inquity Bureau, 197 Chreudon Street 
Boston, Mass. Please send booldct, "This Matter of Success." Name... Address., .... .„.„„..«.. 
A.G. 
Otcr SafySatn Yean in Bmineas 
know that I was the first of that fatal duet to explore the "gold coast." I preceded Red by some three months. 
Sunny California appealed to neither of us, and when last heard from Red was back in the home town, Portsmouth, Ohio; while I have re­turned to St. Stanislaus College of Bay St. Louis, Miss., where I am now bringing my second year as English instructor to a close. 

Had a letter from HUB WAL­THE R a couple of weeks ago, and I hesitatingly admit that Bill was right in his case. He is everything that Bill claimed he was, including a "papa." 
PEEX Y CR.A.WFORD is in Sacra­mento, Calif., following the newspa­per racket. FRANK CONWAY is back in Denver with the Denver Na­tional Company; with him is DAVE HICKEY, formerly of third floor Sorin, now a salesman. TERRY DONAHUE, when last heard from, was in Sweden. When I last heard from CHRISTY FLANAGAN he was still in Port Arthur, but he refuses to write anjTnore. Saw CYP SPORL the other day and he seems to be mak­ing a go of it in the legal profession. He told me that he sees CHARLIE DE LA VERGNE very often in New Orleans. 
Don't get to see many of the boys down this way as Notre Dame men are few and far between this far south. My closing words: 'I want to hear from CHRISTY FLANAGAN.'" 
1928 
Louis Buckley, Notre Dame> Ind,, 
Secretary. 

My friend TURK MEINERT saved the column from being a blank this month by coming through with a real newsy letter in answer to my Al Jolson appeal for news in the last issue. Here it is Just bubbling over with dope on the Pittsburgh gang. 
So Grant Ave., Etna, Penna. Dear Louie: 
After reading your latest column in the ALUMNUS for help for news from the boys of the class of "28" I am taking it upon myself to help you out as far as the boys from the Smoky City are concerned. 
It has been a long time since any of our gang has rated the ALUM­NUS, so here goes. 
Let us begin with none other than LEO A. SCHNEIDER himself. It will be news to some of the class to know that Lee is a married man, for nigh on to a year and a half, and to make matters better, the proud pos­sessor of a baby girl. As to his ac­tivities he is in the oil game and go­ing great. In fact he holds down the coveted position of secretary of his company. Lee resides at 1421 Tolma Ave., Dormont, Pittsburgh, and wel­comes any one going through, or staying in Pittsburgh, at his humble apartment. (Twelve rooms and two baths; maid, etc). 
Next comes the much sought after JACK SHEEDY. Jack as we all know is following in his dad's foot­steps, as far as the insurance racket is concerned. And w^hat I mean he is cleaning up in true Notre Dame fashion. We all remember Jack and his social prestige while at school, but that is nothing compared to his rating at the present time. Last Sun­day in the Pittsburgh Press they de­voted a column to Jack about an on­coming wedding. No, he is not get­ting married, he is just being the best man. 
Who should come into my mind at this time but the one and only "Never-Miss-a-Sale FRITZ WIL­SON." Fritz has been in the employ of his dad for quite a while, but the lure of the big town stuff got him and from what I can gather he has gone to New York to set the style for the future college men. He is working in some haberdashery on Fifth Ave. and doing well. Lots of luck to Fritzer. 
ROBERT STRICKLE. That name will always stand out as far as 
Charles E. Doyle & Co. 
INVESTMENT SECURITIES 
CH.4SE NATIONAL BANK BUILING TWENTY PINE STREET NEW YORK CITY 
HARRY J. CULLEN, '23 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Business and Professional Directory 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 
llllllllllllllllllllll Itltllllllllllllllllllllllllllll Klllllll 
Established 1911 
COOPER-KANALEY and CO. 
FIRST MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS 120 S. LaSalle St., Chicago. Tel. Franklin 0353. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 
POLAR ICE & FUEL COMPANY 
John (Ike) Voedisch, '27 
Ass't Manager 
COLUMBUS, OHIO 
Law Offices 
HAMILTON & KRAMER 
701-3 HUNTINGTON BANK BLDG. 
COLUMBUS, OHIO 
DONALD M. HAMILTON, '12 
YOUR N. D. FRIENDS Want to Do Business With You. 
This is One of Your First Opportunities to Profit as Alumni. 

Illlllllllllllllllll llllllltllllllllllllllllitllllllllMDIII II 
THE NEW ALUMNUS is a Better but Costlier Magazine. 

•Mllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllti 
Send Copy for the Next Two Issues to 
J. E. ARMSTRONG Box 81, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Unclaimed Mail 

(From time to time, lists like this will appear. You -will confer a favor on these men and the Association by-sending in their present address. The Association has not the facilities for tracing lost members.) 
Otero, Augustin—'19 Ott, Francis D.—'22 Owens, Thomas E.—'22 Pallanck, Leo J.—'26 Palomino y Canedo, Car-Ios—^"27 Palmer, Ralph L.—'97 Paradis, Jobson, E. H.—'90 Pillars, Emanuel S.—'68 Pino, Arthur—'06 Piser, Benjamin C.—'li Plante, Victor E.—'20 Powers, Jeffrey V.—'23 Powers, John F.—O.S. '96-'00 Powers, Jos. W.—'24 Prichard, Ai-mstead M.—'12 El. Proctor, Cassius M.—'75 Quinlan, Timothy E.—'19 Quintanilla, Ignacio M.—'15 Radel, Edward H.—'10 Eademacher, Theo. C—'19 Eaney, John—'93 Reai-don, George L.—'24 Reilly, Austin V.—'25 Eincon, Francisco—'03 Rini, Martin A.—'28 Ritter, Forrest H.—'09 Robinson, Charles J.—'12 Roche, John S.—'19 Eoche, W. K.—'78 Eochford, Walter J.—'88 Eosselot, Enrique—'20 Eothwell, Erwin C—'12-'13 Ruane, Joseph F.—'24 Sanchez, Manuel V.—'26 Sanders, James J.—^'97 Savay, Norbert J.—'00 Saxton, J. A.—'26 El. Scaron, J. Pedro—^"23 Schaack, Edward M.—'93 Schamer, Joseph J.—'26 Schermerhorn, Clarence V.—'98 Scherrei-, Charles W.—'93 Schilder, Gerald P.—'27 Schubert, Carl E.—'21 Scott, John S.—'16 Sehagun, Jesse—'09 Sehl, Donald J.—'27 Shea, Arthur C—'22 Sheedy, Morgan F.—'22 Sheehan, William F.—'98 Shenk, Robert—'11 Shirely, Paul V.—'13-'26 El. Shroff, Lloyd B.—'25 Schubert, Carl E.—'21 Silver, Nathan—'06 Sim, Wilbur W.—'15 
(To be continued.) 

UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT, APRIL 21 
DAYTON, OHIO 

- •iiiiiti 
JOSEPH B. MURPHY, '11 
ATTORNGY-AT-LAW 309-15 Mntnal Home Bldg. Dayton, Ohio 
Murphy & Murphy 

•llllltlllllllll)i>ilMliill)lMMll)tiiiitllliniMMIItllliliiiit« 
NEW YORK CITY 
WILLIAM A. DAUNT 
)lllltllllllU)IUtMIIUttlllill> 

CORRECT EQUIPMENT for any ATHLE-nC SPORT 
518 Fifth Ave. 105 Nassau St. 28 New Street 
Manhattan Refrigerating Co. 
Union Tenninal Cold Storage Company 
Refrigerating Company 
Offices: 525 West Street, N. Y. C. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS April, 1930 
Notre Dame is concerned. Bob has been giving John Raskob a lift, by working for a subsidiary branch of the General Motors, but from the latest reports on him, he has also gone to New York to start some sort of a company of his own. I am rack­ing my brain trying to think what kind of a concern it could be, but I give up. I'll have to let that go for the present. Maybe by the next time I write his name will be all over the country, as the young Notre Dame man who cleaned up millions in the Stock Market. We all hope so. 
CHARLES TOTTEN is ne.xt in line. After leaving N. D. he entered the University of Pittsburgh Law School, but another big proposition presented itself and Charles left the honorable study of law. .And he was getting along as well as anyone in the class. In fact, I had an oppor­tunity of talking to one of his profs the other day and he told me Chuck would have made an exceptionally good barrister, but we all know Chas. He will make good in any line he goes into. 
Jefferson Medical School is impart­ing its knowledge to the future DOCTOR HEG.ARTY. Francis is now in his second year with only two more to go and is he going? --^nd how. The last time I saw Frank he told me that Jeff was a trifle tougher than N. D., but we all know he is wrong in making such a statement. In his spare time he takes a jaunt over to New York to see what is go­ing on, and according to his letters plenty is happening. All hail the future M. D. 
And last, but not least, comes DOROTHEUS M. MEINERT him­self. For a while Chas. Totten and myself were legal buddies at the Uni­versity of Pittsburgh, but sickness compelled me to let the law take care of Itself. Since then I have taken a position with the Philadelphia Com­pany, public utilities concern, in the sales and service department. My job is to keep the public at good terms with the company, and in gen­eral, to create good public relations. I like it very much Lou, for it is the best concern in the world to work for. All the men in our department are college grads and believe me, you can get a pretty good idea how N. D. men stack up with the other colleges men of the country. I am not writing this in a boastful or bragging manner, but the boys from the Alma Mater are as good, if not better, than any other school in the East, West, North or South. 
Well Lou, old boy, this about covers the grads of "2S" so we will call it a day, but not before we inform you that the Alumni meet every Thurs­day to discuss matters of great im­portance to the U. And at these square table talks we see the old familiar faces of Ah DIEBOLD, GEORGE SCHILL, GEORGE KING­SLEY, JAMES HARRIGAN, EL­MER LAYDEN, DOCTOR O'DON­NELL, CH.ARLES MARTIN, Vm SWEENEY, JAMES O'TOOLE, ED O'CONNOR, JOHN BRILEY, and a flock more. 
With all the luck in the world to the men of the class of "28" and all Notro Dame men, I remain. 
Very sincerely yours, 
Turk Meinert 

Those of you who still read the Chicago Tribune were no doubt as glad as myself to know of the an­nouncement of the engagement of BILL CRONIN to Miss Helen Vaughan Bill, you know, is now in New York with Hornblower & Weeks on Wall Street. Congratulations Helen and Bill. TOM MAHON fa­vored me with a letter last week from Duluth. Tom gave me quite a sob story concerning the grain situa­tion in the Northwest. Tom's storv does not harmonize with the fact that I found the young grain merchant in a verj' prosperous condition when I visited him a few months ago. JOE BENDA has accepted the position as head coach at St. John's College, Col­legeville, Minn. 
FR.A.NK DONOV.A.N informed me the other day that his old side-kick CHARLIE HOMER is with the Mis­souri Portland Cement Company with headquarters in St. Louis. To con­tinue even further South, I might add that HOWIE PHALIN'S last stop­ping-off place is -Albuquerque, New-Mexico. I was very sorry to hear of the death of the father of HENRY DAVIS. Henry has been employed in Chicago and was a very active participant in our reunion of last fall there. 
1929 Joseph P. McNamara, 231 Wisconsin St., Indianapolis, Ind., Secretary. 
That genial and talented lawyer, playwright, debater, politician, etc., who ordinarily sei-ves as Class Secre­taiY, seems to have been smitten with Spring Fever. But on the merits of past performance and future promise, 
R. I. P. 
Had a nice note recently from DONALD O'BRIEN. 
Peru Foundry Company 
Peru, Indiana 
Manufacturers of 
Tumbling Mill Stars for Gray Iron Emery Wheel Dressers 
Foundries 

Sand Blast Nozzles for Malleable Iron 
Aimealing Pots Foundi'ies. 

Miscellaneous White Iron Castings 
A. F. (ADFRIES,'16 
Vice-Pres. & Gen. Mgr. 







