The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
J ' i. -' 
1 ^ 1 U 
* * 1 ^ "^ 
k /• • -" » 

'"'y^ ^'.j' ^ , •• * V'.-'-JULY„./^.UAUSJ4. 
-• •­

; ,r4~>~ i < 
'-""-t-J. -' 1 ^^^* ).*(-*«•** i«*MjL > —tMlMNa J>« •^••v'll^Jll 
«l*-». 
«-—«> 
LEFT: .At U.N'D .Night in Rocliestcr. X. Y.. were Dr. George F. Kcttell, left, former national chaplain of the .American Legion; and Father Thomas J. Brcnnan, C.S.C, extreme right, professor of philosophy. Others in the group, left to right, arc Thomas J. Meagher, toastmaster; William R. Bell. Rochester Club president; and Joseph P. '"Stubby" Flynn. Rochester Foundation chairman. CEXTER: Prior to the UXD X'ight observance in San Diego, Calif., Win Day, E. AfcCabe, .Al 
Stcu'art and Frank Lauerman broadcast over Station KYOR. Bill Phaenor. station program manager, has back to camera. RIGHT: Tlie Triple Cities Club held its UX^D Xiglit celebration on April 7. Present were. left to right: George L. Hiii­man, regent of the University of the State of Xew York: Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C; Rt. Rev. D. Francis Custin. dean of the Catholic clergy; and Rev. J. B. Toomcy. *2fi, pres. of the Xalional Conference of Catholic Cliarltie<.. 



IJmversal Notre Dame Night 
ABOVE LEFT: Speakers and guests at the Triple Cities Club UXD Xight obser\"ance were. left to right. Daniel J. McAvoy, honorary' chainnan; Father Robert H. Sweeney. C.S.C.. Dr. D. Worden Kane, general chairman; Harrv- G. Hogan, and James X. Hogan. toasimaster and president of the chib. RIGHT: In conjunction with the Twin-Cities' deferred UXD X'ight ob3er\'ance on April 12, 
Below: LEFT: Shown at the S. W, Conncrticut Club UXD Xight obser\'ance at the Slratfield Hotel in Bridgeport are. standing left to right: Frank S. McGce. John C. Rcdgate and John Galla; seated arc: Judge James J. Murphy, Judge John 
T. Cullinan, Rev. R. Sullivan, James J. McGovern, and Xichle Lanese. RIGHT: a Foundation regional meeting was held in St. Paul. Minn. Among those attend­ing were, left to right: Cy Kaspcr. Foundation Governor of South Dakota; Hcnr>* Wurzer. Iowa Governor; HarT>* G. Hogan, Foundation national chairman; Dr. John Culligan, Minnesota Governor; Father Robert Sweeney, CS.C ; James E. ^ Armstrong, national vice-chairman, and Robert Rogers, then president of the club.v 

At the X'orthern California Club observance arc: left to right: Rev. Richard J. Grimm. C.S.C. superior of Holy Cross Seminary, Solrz Dame; William T. B>rne; Bill Yore, president; John W. Carey, retiring president: Rev. WiKiam F. Cunning­ham, CS.C, faculty director at X. D.. and Ralph E. Haviland. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
M-
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second class matter Octo­ber I, 1939, at the PostofHcc, Notre Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council. 
lames E. Annstrong, '25, Editor: William R. Dooley, '28, Managing Editor 
Vol. 26 JULY-AUGUST, 1948 No. 4 
800 Alumni Attend 1948 Reunion 
governors, city chairmen and city commit­

Largest Graduating Class Receives Degrees at Exercises; 
teemen who were on the campus. The Sen­Foundation Governors and City Chairmen Meet on Campus ior Last Visit in Sacred Heart Church, fol­
lowed by the traditional Class Day exercises in the Drill Hall, went on as the members The largest graduating class in the his-Meanwhile, the class reunion parties (about of the Board of Directors of the Alumni 
tor)- of the University and one of the which you'll find more, with pictures and .Association who were on the campus met school's largest and liveliest reunions joined other class news, elsewhere in this issue) for a short session, starting at 11 o'clock. forces to make the weekend of June 4, 5 were under way. First in point of time 
Directors present included Harry G. Ho-
was a dinner in the University Dining Halls 
and 6 a notable occasion on the campus gan, president; Francis Wallace, vice-presi­
honoring Michael J. Ney, of Omaha, who 
— and near it. 
dent; Jack Elder, Thomas F. Byrne, -Arthur 
was the sole member of the class of 1898 to 
D. Cronin, James E. Armstrong and Wil­The class of 1948 numbered 895 persons register for his 50-year reunion. 

liam R. Dooley. 
v,-ho received graduate or undergraduate 
The 1918 class met informally in Walsh 

degrees. And some 800 alumni came back, At noon in the Dining Hall, the local '23 
Hall: the Class of 1923, led by the president 

drawn largely by the reunion programs ar­C.S.C. priests were hosts to the Class of '23 
of the University, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, 

ranged by many of the classes of the years at a Silver Anniversary luncheon which has 
C.S.C., dined in the LaSalle Hotel; and the 

ending in three and eight. become a popular feature of the reunion 
1928 group put on a fish fr>- in the Izaak 
weekend. Father John Cavanaugh and Paul A few alumni arrived Thursday, June 3, Walton League club house, north of South Castner, class secretar)', spoke briefly. 

to be met by the departing students, many Bend. The 1933 reunioners gathered in the of whom had just finished their final e.xams. Vetville Recreation Hall on the campus, The Kline students again came through By Friday morning alumni registration was the 1938 delegation in the Mannerchor in Saturday afternoon's baseball game, and in full sway; for the convenience of the Club, South Bend, and the 1943 class in this time chose a spectacular last-of-the­arriving guests, it was carried on in the the Indiana Club, South Bend. ninth rally to get the victory. That made 
Law Building, near the main entrance to two straight over Western Michigan, rated 
Rev. Louis J. Thornton, c.s.c, Rcgis­

the campus. .Mumni of the years before one of the four strongest college teams in 
ti ar, celebrated Mass for deceased alumni in 

1920 were assigned to Walsh Hall: 1920-27, the Middle West. 
Sacred Heart Church at 8 o'clock Saturday 
Lyons Hall: 1928, Morrissey Hall; 1929-32, morning, and this was followed by a break­The traditional .Alumni Banquet Satur-Howard Hall: 1933-37, Brcen-Phillips Hall; fast-meeting of the Notre Dame Foundation Continued on Page 39 

1938-42, Cavanaugh Hall; and 1943-47, Zahm Hall. The seniors who had finished in Januar>' and were returning for their de­grees were assigned to .Alumni and Dillon Halls. 
Informal reunions, it need hardly be added, got under way almost at once, especially in Morrissey Hall, where Willard Wagner, co-chairman of the '28 gathering provided unusual entertainment, as well as what proved to be one of the real features of this reunion—green cafs with the '28 numeral prominent. Jake Kline, '21, and his base­ball team added to the delight of the day by scoring a tremendous upset victor\- over Western Michigan in the afternoon (see "Athletics"). There was also golf on the University course — all day, plus swimming in the lake. (Golf and swimming repeated on Saturday). 
A concert by the University Band, di­rected by H. Lee Hope, on the Main Quad­rangle starting at 6:30 p.m., gave an addi­

tional gala setting to the weekend, and this The first sons of a '28 groduate to attend Notre Dame, Frank and lim O'Toole, sons was followed by a concert by the Symphony of the late Frank O'Toole, are shown with Mrs. O'Toole and Father lames Gallagan, Orchestra in Washington Hall at 8 p.m. C.S.C. The O'Toole boys served the '28 Mass Sunday morning, June 6. in Morrissey Hall. 
The Notre Dame Alim^mus 


Commencement Address 
by 

PAUL G. HOFFMAN 
Administrator Economic Cooperation Administrotion 
Delivered at 103rd Commencement Exercises Nary Drill Hall. Simday, June 6. 1948 
Father Cavanaugh's introduction is an That is why, once victory was ours, we 
expression of his attitude toward his friends. succumbed to a yearning for a "return to 
He sees reflected in them those qualities of normalcy" and refused to accept our re­
mind, heart and spirit that he himself pos­sponsibilities as the new world leader and 
sesses. I am not the man Father Cavanaugh hence failed to play our part in winning 
says I am, but that makes me even more the peace. Within" three years after the 
appreciative of his praise. I also appreciate end of World War I, we as a people forgot 
very deeply the honor he has shown me by that it had been won at a cost of more than 
inviting me to deliver this Commencement ten million lives and billions of treasure. 
address. I share with all the citizens of It was a gay irresponsible period of flap­
South Bend a very special regard and affec­pers, jazz and soaring prosperity. If we 
tion for the University of Notre Dame. It gave any thought to our own free economy 
has a significant place in our lives. it was to assume that it was invincible and 
permanently established. 
It is with a definite feeling of humility 

that I address this graduating class. You Isolationist Sentiment 
got your degrees the hard way; I left col­We who had special advantages in the lege in 1909 without one. However, I recall way of education or position were largely • quite vividly the remarks of the commence­unconcerned about those who lived on the ment speaker I heard that June. He gave wrong side of the tracks. If we had athe lucky graduates precise instructions not twitch of conscience, we soothed it by re­only for 'launching their ships on the sea calling the Biblical assurance that the poor of life," but also for sailing them in fair are always with us. We had even less in­and stormy weather. He hinted rather terest in people across the oceans. As strongly that there would be no storms for detached spectators we watched Hitler's risethose young navigators who were in bed to power in Germany. Winston Churchill by 10:00 p. m., kept their shoes shined, warned that Naziism was a threat to free­their eyes off the clock, their noses to the dom everywhere. He quoted from Mein grindstone, and who were properly respect­Kampf to prove it — but his was a voice ful of their elders. It was a meticulously crying in the wilderness. Not until France signposted and comfortable world he pic­fell did many of us in the United States tured for us. 
realize that our freedoms might be involved 

— that Hitler's real purpose was to destroy A Placid Surface 
all free societies and supplant them with totalitarian states. Despite this, it was not We who listened to the commencement Hitler but the Japanese attack at Pearl speaker on that June day were almost as Harbor that forced us into the war. 

smug and complacent as he was. If any of us were uneasy in mind, it was because we 
Within a few weeks it will have been -iieren't sure as to whether we could get three years since World War II ended in a job, or whether a certain girl would wait victory. According to the Vatican more until we were making $18 a week. We than 31 million lives were lost in that con­were utterly unconscious of the fact that flict and we ourselves poured out over just below the placid surface of that post-three hundred billions of treasure. 

Victorian world a conflict was brewing 
which in less than six years was to burst Thank God, the American people are no 
forth as World War I. longer smug and complacent. It b obvious 
to all that a ruthless dictatorship — prob­Only a few people in the United States ably the most powerful the world has ever realized that World War I was more than a seen — is launched on a well-thought-out war between nations — that it was a war program of destroying all free institutions. 

between conflicting ideologies, a war, as Stalin's objectives have been as clearly Woodrow Wilson put it, to make the world spelled out in many communist documents safe for democracy. As that war started, a£ were Hitler's in "Mein Kampf." 
the autocratic states of Germany, Austria and Bulgaria were aligned against the demo­
In this year of Our Lord, 1948, to an cratic states of Britain, France and Bel­unprecedented degree, the opposing forces gium, but the situation was later compli­are being brought into sharp focus. In World cated by the entry of autocratic Russia on War I the participation of autocratic Russia the side of the Allies. Most of us were not and autocratic Japan clouded the struggle concerned with issues — we were out to lick of free societies for survival. In Worid War the Kaiser. 

II the issue seemed clear with Hitler, Mus-PAUL G. HOFFMAN. LU).. '48 

solini, Stalin and Tojo in alliance against the free nations — but became confused when Hitler turned on Stalin. Today there is a clear cut division between the barbaric dictatorship of Stalin, aggressive, expanding, ^ insatiable, and the free western civilization developed through twenty centuries of Chris­tianity on the broad foundation of classical Greece and Rome. Woven into the fabric of western civilization is the Christian ethic with its moral and spiritual code. The Politbureau has no moral or spiritual code; in fact, it prides itself on its amorality. It respects force and force alone, and will yield only to force. 
The free peoples of Western Civilization arc at last discovering a firm, sound basis for united action. We are joined now not by mere expediency but by fundamental morality. As James Russell Lowell, Amer­ican ambassador to Great Britain, propheti­cally wrote :L hundred vears ago: 
For mankind are one in spirit, and an in­stinct bears along. Round the earth's electric circle, the swift flash of right or wrong; 2, Whether conscious or unconscious, yet Hu- ^P manity's vast frame Through its ocean-sundered fibers feels the gush of joy or shame; In the gain or loss of one race all the rest have equal claim. 
Never before have so many nations felt so inspired by their common heritage of Western Christian culture. Never before have these nations been so willing to act on what they have in common and to disregard the things that separate them. 
Awareness Is a Safeguard 

In this growing sense of solidarity among all free peoples — in their awareness of the type of conflict in which we are now en­gaged lies our greatest hope of avoiding another world war. Hitler would never have marched in 1939, in my opinion, if he had had arrayed against him the united strength of the world's free nations. Nor ^ 
Continued on Page Seven 



Baccalaureate Sermon 
by 

MOST REVEREND RICHARD J. CUSHING. D. D. Archbishop of Boston 
Preached at Baccalaureate Mass I03rd Commencemest, June 6. 1948 
"And I will ask the Father, and He shall give you another Paraclete, that He may abide with you forever. 
"The spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth Him not, nor knoweth Him: but you shall know Him; because He shall abide with you, and shall be in you."—St. John xiv, 16,17. 
Most Reverend Bishop Noll; .Right Rev­erend, Very Reverend and Reverend Fath­ers; distinguished guests; members of the 
P Taduating classes; 
Dearly beloved in Christ: 
I begin by inviting all present to join with me and with those who today receive their degrees in thanksgiving to God, the Author of all Truth, the Father of all Wis­dom, for the graces, natural and super­natural, which have made this day possible. All truth, whatever its source or subject matter, is ultimately from God. By His creative hand the laws were written, the na­tures determined and the essences decreed which form the objects of human research, scrutiny, study and science. His Eternal Son is the Infinite Word which sums up all the perfections and possibilities which admit of observation or speculation. All spoken wisdom, all reasonings, all knowledge among 
men are but broken reflections of His In­finite Truth, half-heard echoes of His most perfect Wisdom. Even the so-called pro­fane sciences, even those most secular of 
_^.- studies which have matter and the purely physical for their object, even these speak to us of God and of His creative power and sovereign Providence. Indeed, in order to think even of things most removed from Him in nature and in dignity, we must use the faculties with which He has Himself endowed us, to which He gave life and purpose and power. 
God Source o( All Truth 

All truth, whatever its source or subject matter, comes from God — and all the sciences, arts and other disciplines by the mastery of which you have acquired your degrees and distinctions today depend on God for their origin, their validity and the powers by which you know them. Nature, nc less than Revelation, is a book through which God speaks to us and science, no less than faith, though in a different way, brings us always back to God. 
kiN The words of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ which I have proclaimed as ray text this morning are concerned with another 
and higher form of knowledge than that 
which your degrees will represent and to the 
acquisition of which you have devoted these 
recent laborious years. This more sublime, 
more perfect knowledge comes by Faith. 
The same fostering Mother of your minds, 
Notre Dame, who has enriched you with 
the natural arts and sciences has also, I pray 
God, made you firm in the Faith. Her 
work will be but half-done, indeed most 
badly done, if she has taught you only the 
fragmentary things we have learned through 
the fallible faculties of sense about the 
changing world of matter. Notre Dame will 
consider her mission unfulfilled if you quit 
this campus with only the wisdom the world 
can give, gleaned from the things the world 
can see and know, the things that decay, 
disintegrate and die. The full work of a 
Catholic college or university has been done 
only when sense knowledge has been sup­
plemented by Faith, and perfected by that 
spirit of truth whom the world cannot re­
ceive, because it seeth Him not, nor knoweth 
Him. But you shall know Him, if you be 
true sons of Notre Dame, for He shall abide 
v.-ith you and shall be in you. 
By Faith the spirit of truth, the other Paraclete which Christ promised, becomes diffused through the hearts of all the de­vout. And thus by Faith there enters the minds of men, otherwise at variance and contradictory to one another, a principle of unity and stability. Many and changing are the thoughts of men; the word of God i» always the same. Fleeting and insecure is the knowledge based on purely hiunan pow­ers; steadfast and abiding is the knowledge based on divine Faith. 
The Eternal Church 

Because the Church is founded on Faith in the Eternal God, because she lives by her unfailing Faith and transmits the Faith un­changed down through the ages, the Church has become the principle of permanence in an insecure world, a divinely established rock firmly fixed among the shifting sands of human history. Nations, civilizations, theories, even philosophies,—all these come, they have their little day, and they disap­pear. The Church abides. 
The stability of the Church, her faithful witness to the eternal, unchanging God, should commend her to men of sound phil­osophy and of a truly scientific spirit. The most exalted minds of every age have pointed out how the infinite God must by 
ABCHBISHOP BICHABD J. COSHDIG. IU>>'48 

His nature be above the ebb and flow of things created and finite. The myitic, the philosopher, the sensitive spirit of every thoughtful person, each recognizes that aU else but God passes; God only endures. All forms of knowledge which have for .their object created nature and things material are, like their objects, mutable; they not merely change but change is proper to their very nature. But religion, religious faith, should bear a constant witness. Its trumpet must sound no uncertain note. It sounds the same note in fair days that it does in fcul, in the face of kings that it does in the ears of the poor, in prosperous lands as 
among the defeated and the destitute, in this century as it did in centuries gone by. The object of Faith is God and God does not change. The channel of Faith is God's Incarnate Son and Jesus Christ is yesterday and today and forever the same. 
The Unchanging Church 

Yet, sad fact and strange, many there'' arc who resent the inflexible, unswerving permanence of the Faith and who deplore the uncompromising fidelity of the Church. Indeed, some who profess to be Christians aye, even spiritual leaders of their several flocks, are offended by the stability of the Church and by her constant resistance to the demand that she, the unchanging wit­ness to the Eternal God, put aside her pre­tensions to permanence and descend into the arena of conflicting opinions and cha­otic change. Many of those who are divided among themselves in the warring camps of sectarian heresy appear able to unite on one point and one point only: the demand that Catholicism abdicate the fixed convictions of her constant faith or else suffer the re­proach of men who profess to be free, not to say the persecution of those who demand complicity in their confusion as the price of their friendship. 
No small part of the malice currently fostered against Catholicism is due to the fact that persons divided among themselves in heresy resent Catholic insistence on the divine rights of religious orthodoxy, on the necessity for imqualified and unchanging adherence, in letter and in spirit, to God's revelation of Himself through Jesus Christ yesterday.loSay and forever the same. Most of those who preach in season and out against the Church, her pretensions, her priests, prelates and people; most of those who denounce the Catholic Faith as static or obscurantist and Catholic leadership as reactionary and spiritual Fascism would de­sist tomorrow from their calumnies if today the Church would come down from the exalted rostrum on which she bears her unchanging witness to God's Eternal Sov­ereignty and take her place vtith them in the confused mob of contending spokesmen for sectarian religion. 
This is not the first period of histor)- in which the Church has been condemned for her refusal to change, to accommodate her­self to the religious, political, scientific and social moods of the hour. The heretic has always protested against the intransigence of Catholicism and sooner or later he has always invoked the political powers of his day, whatever their forms or theories, in the effort to embarrass the Church and to help him persuade her to change. 
The celebrated Lacordaire described in dramatic terms this ancient conflict between the spirit of truth and the spirit of error, between the Church of Christ and the par­tisans of spiritual compromise. He told how one by one the succeeding generations have come to the doors of the Vatican, the cita­del of the Christian Faith. They have knocked there with buskin and with boot, with pikes in their day and later with rifles, and sometimes with the swagger sticks of diplomacy. Each time the Faith has ap­peared under the frail and wasted form of a high priest, usually an old man of three score years and ten or more. Even to the world he is a symbol of all his kind, of all Christ's priesthood and of all who share his Faith. But to the initiate, he is more than a symbol, — he is the secret of their constancy, the source of their confidence, the cornerstone of their indestructible Faith. 
The Church Can Never Change 

To the emissaries of compromise and of change who stand at her gates, the Faith, through the lips of the old man, has al­ways asked: "What do you desire of me?" 
"We ask you to change ..." The de­mand is always the same. 
No less constant is the answer: "I can never change!" 
"But everything changes in this world. Politics change. Astronomy changes. Medi­cine has changed. Philosophy has changed. All things human change. Why must you remain always the same?" 
"Because I come from God. I speak for God. I am answerable to God. And God is always the same." 
Then in each generation the particular emphasis varies, but the basic challenge is are answerable to us — to us, the Emperors of the Roman State who oppress you in 
Clement and Calixtus and Marcellus the martyrs; and to me, Attilla the Hun, Scourge of God, who threaten you in Leo the Saint; to us, the German kings who defy you in Pope St. Gregory and the French absolutists who harass you in Pope Boniface; to me. Napoleon who holds you captive in Pius VII; to us, tlie prophets of the new nationalism^ who mock you in Pius IX and Leo XIII; to us, the founders of the new philosophy and the proud agnosticism who despise you in Pius X; to us the duces, the fuehrers and the marshals who revile and defraud you in Pius XI ; to us, the spellbinders of the new pseudo-democratic secularism who propose^to cripple your schools and scatter your people. On earth you are answerable to us — to our Atheism, Secularism, Statism, Nationalism, Militar­ism, Racism, Communism, whatever form the s>'stem behind our demand may take. We have a million men under arms. Most of them belong also to you and we can divide or destroy their loyalty. We shall draw the sword. The sword which can topple thrones and decimate nations is well able to cut off an old priest's head and to slash the pages of inspired Scriptures and ecclesiastical encyclicals!" 
"Carve as you wish and kill whom you may! Blood yields the aroma in which I inevitably recover my youthful vigor. Mar-t>Tdom restores my pristine innocence and strength. Persecution is the instnmient of my purging and renewal!" 
No Compromise 

Then with fatal repetition comes the an­cient offer to bargain: "Here, take half my sceptre and give me half your prestige. Make a sacrifice to peace. Come to terms with me — with my ancient idolatries, with my insurgent barbarism, with my new na­tionalism, with my invigorating skepticism, with my headstrong racism, with my flat­The Notre Dame Alumnus 
tering, false tolerance and my secular in­difi°erentism. You need not change your inward illusions; simply restate your out-M ward pretensions and come to terms with ^ the changing world!" 
Perennial and proud is the answer of Christ's Church: 
"Keep thy purple, oh Caesar; thy prog­ress, thy power, thy pleasures and prosperi­ties, ye others in your turn. Keep thy peace and all else that thou canst ofl'er. Tomor­row they will be dead together with you and we shall bury you with them. We shall chant over thee our De Profundis and Miserere, even as we prepare our recurring Te Deums and Alleluias — for these, too, never change. They express the spirit of the Church as she bespeaks the spirit of God!" 
Stability of Church Guaranteed 

Thus stands the Church in every age and under every sky — permanent in the midst of change, unchanging in the face of com­promise. My friends, that same spirit of God which guarantees the stability of the Church is present in you. Christ has sent j | His other Paraclete to abide in you. Notre " Dame has evoked in you the Faith by which you are one with the Church and by which you become the Church. My friends, you are the Church and all her character­istics should be yours. 
Let her Faith within you be the perma­nent element in your lives — the stable principle underlying all your mental and cultural and spiritual growth. Stand fast in that Faith and then you can keep your minds open to wholesome change in all other things of which change is the law. Then can you take your place, as take your place you should, in the vanguard of every movement which seeks to re-interpret, to revise or even to revolutionize the serv­ice of men. But stand fast, I adjure you, in the Faith you have received through the apostles from the Christ who speaks for God! 
this:  "All this pertains  to another order of  Father John Coranough, C^.C> president orarorda an LLB. to Lawrence E. Turner at  
things — to the world beyond, perhaps. But  the Commencement Exercises ia the Mart  Drill HalL  At Father Coronaugh's left is  
new  you  are  in  our  world.  Here below  we  Father Howard  Kenna.  CS.C>  director  of  studies, and to the tight Father John J.  jf'  
are  the  masters and here in the world you  Lane, C^.C, assistant director ol studies. At extreme right is Dean Clarence E. Maaion.  ^  

9 So long as you abide in the Faith, you will be the hope of the world and the in­struments through which the Church gives the world her greatest service. Through you, graduates of this great Catholic col­lege already so closely identified with the epic and the genius of America, the Church will fulfill her great social mission among men: to be the principle of permanence in a world of change, the wellspring of sanc­tity in the midst of evil, the beacon of idealism in an age of cynicism and of the crudity which passes for realism, a ground for hope in the face of discouragement and mounting fear. 
My friends, with all my heart I pray that Notre Dame has equipped you with everything that human scholarship and science have wrested from the wisdom of the past and the experience of the present. But above all else I pray that Notre Dame has been a place where you have grown in the wisdom of the Paraclete, the Spirit of Truth whom the world cannot receive. . . . But you shall know Him and He shall 
P be in you. . . . May He abide with you for­ever! Amen! 
Commencement Address 
{Continued from Page pour) 

will Stalin march today if the free nations stand together and are prepared militarily to meet aggression. 
Whether we like it or not, and most of us do not like the idea, the leadership of the free world today rests with the United States of America. To meet this new re­sponsibility calls for action on our part both at home and abroad. 
We must first safeguard and enrich our free institutions and our free economy in the United States. I yield to no one the esteem in which I hold our political institutions and our economic system. But it is not enough to point to our past accomplish-
y. ments. If we are to preserve the American system for our children and their children, it's up to us not only to determine the sources of its strength and safeguard them, but to search out its weaknesses and cor­rect them. It is up to us to see that the benefits of our great productiveness are spread to more and more of our people. 
But our concern about free institutions and the freedoms of peoples must extend beyond our shores. We must remember that there are in Western Europe some 260 mil­lion people with whom most 'of us share a common ancestry. If totalitarianism should be imposed upon these people our own free society would be put in jeopardy. Surely two terrible wars have taught us that we cannot exist as a free, prosperous island in a world of slavery and misery. 
In June of last year in a commencement address delivered at Harvard University, General Marshall proposed that the United I'. States should help Europe to help itself back to economic health. He said, and I 
Father John CciTcmcnigh. CS. C pre^dant right is iliewii with Ih* ienr mam who were awarded honorary degrees at the Commencement. They are. left to right. Dr. Boy I. Defenaii. secretary-general of Catholic Unhreisitr: Pool A. Boifanan. adminis­trator of the Economic Cooperation Administration: Most BOT. Biehard L Cnshing. DJ>., archbishop of Boston: Vincent I. Schaefer. widely known for his "artificial weather" experiments. Another IU>. was awarded posthumously to Vmiiam J. Corbett, former lay trustee, who died two weeks before the Commencement 
quote: "It is logical that the United States should do whatever it is able to do to assist in the return of normal economic health in the world, without which there can be no political stability and no assured peace. Our policy is directed not against any country or doctrine but against hunger, poverty, desperation, and chaos. Its purpose should be the revival of a working economy in the world so as to permit the emergence of political and social conditions in which free institutions can exist." That proposal of General Marshall's gave new hope to many desperate nations and found concrete ex­pression here in the Foreign Assistance Act setting up the Economic Cooperation Ad­ministration. 
The task set by the Congress for the Eco­nomic Cooperation Administration has no precedent in history. By the use of American dollars, American food, American steel, coal and other goods, we are to promote the recovery of hundreds of millions of people in many great nations from the disastrous aftermath of the world's most terrible war. 
We are to seek above all to have each of these nations cooperate fully with all the others. We are to help them to help them­selves. We are to use our own resources to build up other nations agriculturally, in­dustrially, commercially. We are to exert ourselves to the utmost to strengthen na­tions which in the past we have regarded as rivals and competitors. 
In other words, as the Soviets seek to share their slavery and starvation with the rest of the world we seek to share our free­dom and abundance. As Elizabeth Barrett Browning wrote: 
Happy are all free peoples 
Too strong to be dispossessed 
But blessed are they among nations 
Who dare to be strong for the rest. 
I cannot offer you the pleasant platitudes and rosy prospects of the commencement orator of 1909 — nor need I offer you, as Winston Churchill offered to England "nothing but blood, sweat and tears." But I do say that if you and I — all of us-r­unitc wholeheartedly in work and sacrifice and sweat we shall avoid the blood and the tears. 


N. D. Low Associafiott Organized at Reunion 
The Notre Dame Law Association was organized on June 5 at a reunion of ap­proximately 125 lawyers in the auditorium of the College of Law. Temporary o£Scers were elected, a constitution adopted, and a nominating committee of ten members elected to choose nominees for election to the Board of Directors. As constituted, the Association shall consist of all Notre Dame men who are members of the legal profession, irrespective of whether or not they are graduates of the Notre Dame Law School. 
A copy of the constitution and the report and recommendations of the nominating committee will be sent to those eligible for membership as soon as they are available. In accordance with constitutional provisions, balloting for directors will be conducted by mail and the ofiBcers of the Association will be elected by the Board from their members. Tentative plans call for the initial meeting of the Board of Directors during the Second Natural Law Institute to be held on the cam^ius in December. 
Francis Jones, '29, of South Bend was elected temporary chairman and Robert E. SulUvan, '40, a member of the law faculty, was chosen as temporary secretary. All in­quiries should be directed to the secretary. Box 1393, Notre Dame, Ind. 





ATHLETICS • • 
Baseball 
Coach Jake Kline's Notre Dame base­ball team won seven out of its last eight games, after a disastrous start, to wind up the 1948 campaign with a record of eleven \nctories in 23 games. 
The ultimate climax of the Irish season came in the final pair of contests, when with hundreds of returning alumni looking on, the Klinemen copped two decisions over the powerful Western Michigan nine. In the two commencement week-end games, Notre Dame staged its best slugging attack of the season to batter the Broncos, 13 to 0, in the first game of the series, and came back with a story-book ninth inning rally to grab the second, 4 to 3. 
Other wctims in the late season drive by Notre Dame baseballers included Michigan State, whom the Irish beat twice, 5 to 4 and 10 to 1, Purdue, 5 to 3, Northwestern, 3 to 0, and Toledo, 7 to 1. The only de­feat suffered by the Irish in the last eight games of the campaign was a 3 to 2 loss to Purdue in the other half of a double header. 
A woeful lack of hitting power hurt Notre Dame's chances in early season play as the Irish won only four of their first fifteen games. Coach Kline's diamond squad, with a good pitching and better than average fielding record, beat Xavier, 5 to 2, Iowa, 8 to 7, Indiana, 5 to 3, and Ohio State, 6 to 0, for their only wins prior to their late season spurt. Defeats suffered in early season play included two to Cincin­nati, 4 to 3 and 2 to 1, Xavier 4 to 3, Bradley 2 to 1, Iowa 4 to 3, Indiana 5 to 1, Wisconsin 2 to 1 and 3 to 1, Ohio State 6 to 3, and Michigan 3 to 0 and 5 to 2. 
Coach Kline txperimcnted e.Ntensively 
RAYPETBZELKA Notie Dame's First Baseman 
By RAYMOND J. DONOVAN 
Assistant Director oi Public Iniotmaiion 

with his lineup during most of the season. Gene Lavery played" most of the year at third, Pete Koblosh was at shortstop until suffering an injured leg when he was re­placed by Emile Garafolo, Benny Kozlik handled the keystone and Ray Petrzelka played regularly at first and did most of the cleanup hitting. 
In the outfield, Capt. Steve Pavela, John Cree%'ey, Bob Machado, and Tony Lipton saw most of the ser\'ice. Behind the plate, John "Buster" Hiller, Tom Coccitti, Jim Presley and Dick Maher all took their turns. Replete with mound experts. Coach Kline used Walt Mahannah, Jack Camp­bell, Dick Kluck, Bill Sherman, John Creevey, Dick SmuUen and Eldon O'Brien with nearly equal effectiveness. 

Track 
Only one dual defeat marred a highly successful outdoor track season chalked up by Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Handy's Notre Dame track and field performers. 
The Irish cindermen displayed an amaz­ing balance of power in opening the out­door campaign by romping to victory over Bradley and Drake in a triangular meet in Peoria, 111. Notre Dame amassed a total of 89 points, thirty-four more than Bradley who came in second with 55 markers. Drake trailed in third place with 30 points. 
Notre Dame's track squad bettered its point total of the previous week by swamp­ing Marquette, 93 to 38, in the first of two dual meets scheduled for the Irish in out­door competition. In the only other dual meet of the outdoor season, Michigan State tallied in the final event of the meet to edge past Notre Dame, 74 to 67, on Cartier field. 
The Irish once again showed their team balance by walking off with top honors in the Indiana State meet on the Indiana Uni­versity track at Bloomington. Notre Dame finished first with 83 1/7 followed. by In­diana with 73 2/7, and Purdue with 48 2/7. 
Notre Dame's highest point total of the season came in the Indiana AAU meet at Indianapolis which the Irish won with ease by scoring 102 points. The Handymen never were in trouble, having things pretty much their own way by either winning or placing in every event of the meet. 
Standouts on the Irish squad during out­door competition included dashman Bob Smith, hurdler Bill Fleming, middle-dis­tance experts Capt. Ernie McCuUough and Ray Sobota, miler Bill Leonard, miler and two miler Jim Kittell, two-miler Jim Mur­phy, and shotputter, discus-thrower, javelin-tosser George Sullivan and Floyd Simmons. 

The Irish cindermen ended their season preparatory to the national meet by finish­ing second in the CCC outdoor meet at Milwaukee. Coach Handy's trackmen, dis­playing their best form of the season, com­piled 43 1/5 points to trail only the title-winning Illinois squad, which scored 58 points. 
The Notre Dame 440-yard relay team took a third place, while the Irish mile relay aggregation grabbed a second. Individual point winners for Notre Dame in the meet included: Bill Leonard second and Jim Kit-tell third in the mile run; Jim Miller third gi and Jim Kittell fifth in the javelin throw j Bob Smith second in the 100-yard dash and second in the 220 yard dash; Ray Sobota, second in the 440 yard dash; Bill Fleming, fourth in the 120 yard high hurdles and second in the 220 yard lows; John Johnson," fourth in the discus throw; Jim Murphy, fifth in the two-mile run; and Jim Miller, tied for fifth in the pole vault. 


Tennis 

Coach Walter Langford's Notre Dame tennis team, although dropping its first match since 1946, finished the 1948 season among the collegiate leaders of the nation with a record of eight victories and only one defeat. 
The Evert brothers. lenr. left, and lim. whe were mainstoYS oi Coach Langford's tennis squad. | j 
Volume 26, No. 4, July-Aug., 1948 
The Irish netters, shooting for their sec­ond undefeated season in succession, opened 
« the season with a 9 to 0 shutout win over Wisconsin. After edging Michigan's power­house, 5 to 4, in what figured to be one of the season's toughest matches, the Notre Dame squad was not scored on for four consecutive matches. Included in this march were 9 to 0 victories over Marquette, DePauw and Kentucky, and a 6 to 0 tri­umph over Earlham. 
Coach Langford's tennis experts chalked up a 7 to 2 victory over Western Michigan, for their seventh straight win, before their string was snapped. Northwestern provided the stumbling block for the Irish, as the Wildcats caught fire to register their best match of the season in disposing of Notre Dame, 7 to 2. The Irish finished the regu­lar season by trouncing Purdue, 6 to 1. 
In the Central Collegiate Conference tournament, held at the University of De­troit, Michigan State dethroned the Irish a!i team champion in a close race. Notre Dame finished second, as Jimmy Evert also was dethroned as singles champion by 
A Michigan State's Reynolds. Jerry Evert ad­vanccd to the semi-finals of the singles com­petition before he was beaten by Kovleski, of William and Mary, who lost in the finals. Jimmy and Jerry Evert retained their doubles title in the meet. 
Four Notre Dame performers were to compete in the NCAA tennis tournament held from June 21 to 26 at the University of California at Los Angeles. Members of the Irish squad competing in the nationals were Jimmy and Jerrj' Evert, Bob David and Gene Bittner. 
Golf 

Victory in the Indiana state intercolle­giate tournament held at Notre Dame cli­maxed the 1948 season for the Irish golf team coached by Rev. George Holderith, c.s.c, during which the Notre Dame squad 
^ won five matches while losing four. 
The Irish opened the season with an 18 to 9 victory over the University of Ken­tucky. After losing to Purdue, 14}4 to 12/2, and Wisconsin, 15»/4 to 11%, Notre Dame came back to overwhelm the Uni­versity of Detroit linksmen to the tune of 22 to 7. 
Minnesota edged the Irish, 17^ to 9%, but the only meet Notre Dame lost for the balance of the season was a 17 to 13 deci­sion to Michigan. Numbered among the Notre Dame victims in late season play were Northwestern, 14 to 13, Louisville, 21 tc 6, and Michigan State, 19^2 to 10%. 
In the Indiana state meet, the Irish were easy winners. Five of the Irish performers were included in the top list of finishers in the meet, and Jack Fitzpatrick, of Notre Dame, won the individual championship. 
Leading performers for the Notre Dame ^ \ squad in the 1948 season included Fitzpat­'" • rick, George Stiihr, Capt. Dick Seidel, Tom 
Dore, Jack Quinn and Tom Conley. 


Foofboff 

Johnny Lujack, brilliant All-American Irish quarterback,, maintained his record of never playing a losing game in the Notre Dame Stadium a; he spearheaded a star-studded group of Old Timers to a 20 to 14 victory over the Varsity in the annual Var­sity-Old Timers game played on May 15. 
The Old Timers, bolstered by such stars as John Yonakor, George Tobin and John­ny Agnone from other years, jumped into the lead early in the first quarter when Bob Livingstone went over standing up from the seven-yard line. Old Timer scores were the result of sustained drives of 68, 94 and 91 yards. The first two touchdowns were tal­lied on a combined aerial and ground at­tack which the varsity was unable to solve. 
Lujack, during the first scoring drive, tossed nine passes to eat up the yardage. Yonakor and Zeke O'Connor provided able targets, while Comie Clatt and Pete Ash­baugh handled the ground maneuvers. Lu­jack tossed to Agnone in the end zone for the second touchdown scored by the Old Timers, while Livingstone again went over for the third score. Lujack made good on two of the three conversions. 
Coy McGee provided one of the most brilliant runs of the day when he returned an Old Timer kickoff back to the Old Timer 14-yard line before he was hit from behind. Five plays later, halfback Emil Sitko plunged over to score. 
The score stood at 20 to 7 until only seconds remained in the contest, when quar­terback Bob Williams tossed a touchdown pass after the Varsity had intercepted a mis­directed Lujack pass. 
Proceeds from the annual game, attended by 20,000, went to the scholarship fund of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley. 
Stories of the Brothers 
Alumni of many difTerent years will be keenly interested in two booklets which were written by Brother Ernest Ryan, c.s.c, '25, and-recently published by the Dujarie Press. The first booklet, entitled "These Two Hearts," is a story of Brother Columba O'Neill, c.s.c, who for almost 50 years, until his death in 1923, lived and worked at Notre Dame. A cobbler by trade, he was widely known for his devotion to the Sacred Heart and for the apparent cures resulting from his intercession. 
The second booklet, "As a Star for All Eternity," is the story of Brother Aidan O'Reilly, c.s.c, '27, who died on Feb. 19, 1948. Like Brother Columba a member of the Community for almost 50 years. Brother Aidan served in many important posts among the Brothers and was especially known to alumni as rector of Brownson Hall for five years and as a teacher in many Brothers' high schools. The Alumni Office remembers him especially and gratefully for the innumerable pieces of news he so cheer­fully brought in for use in the ALUMNUS. 
The first booklet sells for fifty cents, the second for twenty-five cents. Address the Dujarie Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 
FacNffy Award Gees fe Hemry C. Sfaaatem 
Prof. Henry C. F. Staunton, of the De­partment of English, has been named the 1948 recipient of the Notre Dame Lay Fac­ulty Award for distinguished service during the 1947-48 school year. 
The award, which carries a $500 paxte, is made annually by the Notre Dame Alonmi Association to the outstanding member of the facidty. Last year's award went to Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor of Pblitical 
PBOF. HENHT C. F. STAUNTON 

Science at Notre Dame and nationally prominent authority on Russia. 
Professor Staimton, who has been a mem­ber of the faculty in the Department of English at Notre Dame since 1925, has spe­cialized during his teaching in American Literature, English Literature of the 19th century and poetry. He is a native of Skaneatclcs, N. Y. 
Professor Staunton received his bachelor of arts degree at Columbia University in 1899 and was awarded his master of arts degree at the same university in 1902. Be­fore coming to Notre Dame he taught Eng­lish, German and Latin in New York high schook and served as a tutor for college. 
Audio'Visual Center Established at N. D. 
An Audio-Visual Center, under the su­pervision of Orvillc Foster, is being estab­lished in the Main Btiilding, on the campus. Special emphasis, this year, will be placed on showings for the Graduate School and the College of Arts and Letters. The Cen­ter will also help to select films to be used in the College of Connnerce, and the va­rious departments such as Englifh, Biology, and Physical Education. 
These movies will be educational and will be incorporated in regular classroom work. Mr. Foster eventually intends to pur­chase the Coronet Library, and Teaching Films Incorporated. All Catholic schoob ir the midwest states will have an oppor­tunity to use these films. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 




Address to the Alumni 
Because all of you are so much interested in the University and what talces place on the campus, I have gone over" the SCHO­LASTIC for the last year and jotted down the main headlines which, month after month, point out the events that have taken place. Let me mention a few of them by way of introduction. 
September 
Establishment of the Foundation Offices in old Carroll Study Hall under the direction of Hairy Hogan and James £. Armstrong. . . . Appointment of foundation governors in 48 states and 15 foreign countries. Meeting of Alumni Board of Directors on the campus. 
October 
Etienne Gilson of the French Academy, through the generositj- of the Michael P. Grace Foundation, gave a series of public lectures under the auspices of the Median;al Institute. . . . Notre Dame Foundation holds organiza­tional meetings in Harrisburg, Pa., Washing­ton, Neu-ark, N. J., and New York. .. . Establishment of Great Book groups in South Bend and environs as a result of Notre Dame's initiation of the movement under Judge Roger Kiley in 1945. . . . 
November 
Dr. Stephen Kuttner gives second of Afedix\'al Institute Lectures under auspices of the Grace Fund. . . . Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg, Director of Chemistry in the Radia^on Laboratories at the University of California, recipient of Amer­ican Chemical Society Award in Pure Chem­istry for 1947, and co-discoverer of plutonium, deU\*ers Nicuuiand Lectures. . . . Fall meeting of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees held, at which E. M. Morris became chairman to suc­ceed P. C. Reilly. 
December 
First Natural Law Institute, emphasizing the Natiural Law as the basis of American juris­prudence, held under the auspices of the Col­lege of Law. . . . Mortimer Adier of Chicago, Harold McKinnon of San Frandsco, Ben Palmer of St. Paul, Father Doheny, Dean ^famon de­livered addresses. . . . The United States Na\7, represented by Rear Admiral Car>* Jones, pre­sented a bronze plaque to the University- citing "the effidency, patience and cooperative spirit demonstrated by the University of Notre Dame in training NROTC, Navy V-12, and USNR midshipmen." . . . 
Jonuary 
Notre Dame Foundation, entering its first full v-ear of operation, passes its first unofiiaal goal of $500,000. . . . SCHOLASTIC carries story to the effect that approximately one student in sev-en at the Uaivcrsity is employed. . . . 
February 
Professor Francis X. Ackermann, known to Notie Dame students and alumni for more than fifty years, died in Dubuque, la. Professor Ack­ermann left half his life's savings, $3,000, to the Coi^r^ation of Holy Cross, most of it for the education of young men for the priest­hood. . . . 
By BEV. lOHN J. CAVANAUGit C^.C 
President, UniTersity of Notre Damo 

Address deliTered cxt the Alumni Dinnsr, June 5,1948, in the Dining HaU. 
March 
The Notre Dame Student Coundl announced that the student campaign for the Foreign Stu­dent Relief Fund raised $35,529.39, the highest sum raised by any college in the country. . . , Dr. Bernard Waldman, professor of physics, said in an address that it is highly probable the Russian sdentists have developed an attmiic bomb. . . . Waldman, who obsoved the raids on Hiroshima and Nagaski, doubted that the Russians could produce the bombs in cjuantity because of the immensity of organization re­quired. .. . Frank C. Walker, alumnus '09, named redpient of the Laetare Medal. .. . 
April 
Twenty-fifth annual Uni\-ersal Notre Dame Night obser\'ed April 5. . . . Professor James A. Reyniers, director of LOBUND, receives the first annual Notre Dame Faculty Award by the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. . . . Charles F. Williams of Cindnnati becomes a member of the Assodate Board of Lay Trustees. . . . The 1948 Manual and Guide of the University of Notre Dame Foundation released for publi­cation. . . . 
May 
Encouraged by the success of the Advisory Coundl for Sdence and Engineering, under the Chairmanship of Edgar Kobak, President of Afutual Broadcasting Company, the administra­tion invited a number of its friends in industry, business and commerce, to form an Advisory Council for the College of Commerce. First meeting held May 21 and 22, and Charles Reagan, Vice-President of Paramount Pictures, was elected chairman. . . . Paul Hoffman, di­rector of Economic Cooperation Administration, will deliver the commencement address in June. Archbishop Gushing of Boston will deliver the baccalaureate sermon. . . . 
June to September, 1947 Sununer school for 1947 u-as first since the war. Opened with an enrollment of 1,743. .. . There is one event of last summer whidi calls for spedal attention. Father Hugh O'Donnell, one of the greats in a long line of gifted and distinguished presidents, died in the Students' Infirmary'. I think we all realize more and more as the da>-s go by that no person ever lived who, more than Father Hugh, was de­voted to Notre Dame. The life of Father Hugh O'Donnell as a priest and admimstmtor has been inspiring to me and to all who really knew him. I hope that occasionally you mil give him a place in your pra>'ers and keep him ever high in your gratitude and affections. 

A year ago, at the alumni banquet, we were all doing a little whistling in the dark. Some of the problems were new. Some of the administrators were new. Some new procedures had to be established. Only the fact that we faced financial difficulties was distressingly old. 
It is, therefore, with much more than the usual pleasure that we meet again tonight. Not that all our problems are solved. Not that all our difficulties are removed. And not that an extra year has brought too much experience or comfort to the administrators. But we feel, with some confidence, that the 
a 

darkness is not so enveloping. And in the 
history of the intervening year there is much 
to commend. 
The Notre Dame Foundation, which, a year ago, was largely a program of faith, has proved in the interim to be a program of works as well. The 1947 total of $551,803 from alumni and friends, is eloquent tribute to the efficacy of the Foundation as a co­ordinating agency and to men like Father Sweeney, Harry Hogan, Jim Armstrong and Art Haley for helping brilliantly to bring necessary support to Notre Dame. 
The Alumni Association, which was bom \2 in Notre Dame's Silver Jubilee year, and which has stood by in all emergencies since, has proved through its members to be the anticipated agency, the field force, the per­sonal source, upon which the Foundation program had to rise or fall. Response has indicated a rising well beyond the level of our hopes of a year ago. With lasting sin­cerity I thank each and everyone of you who have taken part in the program. 
Notre Dame Is Well Equipped 

Tonight, not with overconfidence or with a false security that all our work is done, but with the feeling that we have proved our strength to undertake the task ahead, I would like to supplement the reports and remarks already made, to dwell for just a few minutes on why Notre Dame is so well equipped on the one hand to produce the moral, responsible leadership we must have in America, and why, on the other hand,-^ Notre Dame must have your continuing in-V?? tensive support if the production is to be full and effective in its broader objectives. 
You remember Christ's injunction to ren­der unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. Notre Dame, as a great American Catholic Uni­versity, possesses both the spiritual and the temporal characteristics. 
Our spiritual wealth is an endowment that all education may envy. It arose on the day at the world's dawn when God said, "Let there be light." 
The eternal tablets of stone delivered to Moses in the storm swept clouds of Sinai are part of our spiritual wealth. 
Our inheritance found new vitality in the manger at Bethlehem when the Word was made Flesh. When the apostles were en­joined to teach all nations, we, too, received our commission, and we rejoice in Christ's ^^ promise to be with us all days even to theW consummation of the world. 
So we are not fearful of our spiritual wealth and of our inheritance and commis­
. 9 sion. Rather, we would be prodigal and let all know to whom the influence of Notre Dame may extend. 
You will recall that the spiritual wealth of the world has never been associated essen­tially with either idleness or material wealth. Instead, men of all ages have forsaken ma­terial things to follow the call of the spirit. 
Christ was born in poverty. He lived in poverty. His 'miracles were worked only within three years after He had left the humble carpenter shop in Nazareth. The miracles were performed not for His per­sonal comfort, but for the manifestation of the Divine origin of His ministry. The need for miracles is unhappily proved by the tragic failure of His time to accept Him even upon their testimony. 
Notre Dame today is not asking for mir­acles that we may enjoy comfort or that we may avoid work. 
The young priest of 27 years who stood in the snows by St. Mary's Lake in 1842 
A did not see about him a material Paradise. The vision was of the spirit, but so strong that it evoked the willingness to endure great physical privation. 
Many Specific Needs 

It was not the path of pleasure or of com­fort, for that same priest, after thirty-seven long years of bitter struggle to build his Notre Dame, had to stand by its smoldering ruins, renew his faith, and state simply "We will begin rebuilding at once." 
What we are suggesting now to our alumni and friends is not a departure from this Christian tradition of poverty. We are asking only those things which will give proper and effective manifestation of the purposes and ministry of this University. 
There are many drastic specific needs here at Notre Dame as you know. One of them that can be met only by the immediate help of alumni, and friends whom you can induce to help Notre Dame, is this: the provision of new space and facilities for both our departments of physics and chemistry. Laboratory space is inadequate. Space for research is hopelessly limited. Equipment amounting to hundreds of thousands of dollars housed in old Science Hall is in grave danger of destruction by fire. It is our intention to construct adequate facilities for the work in chemistry and physics as soon as the contributions of alumni and friends make it possible. I am utterly confident that Notre Dame can rely on help from her alumni. I believe that in this emergency the alumni will be willing to solicit help from their non-alumni friends. 
Housing Facilities Lacking 

There is another drastic need which I should like to mention. This need concerns directly the alumni, the parents of students, and friends of the University. We have no housing facilities to take care of returning alumni and friends. I believe that this need can reasonably be called urgent. At present there is no place where the alumni may stay together on the campus or where the students may take their parents or visit­ing guests for comfortable dining facilities. A guest house, a Notre Dame Inn, would meet such needs. We have already had pre­liminary plans drawn. We are very anxious to begin construction on such a guest house, but again we cannot actually start until we get help of alumni and friends. 
If we speak of new buildings, it is not that young men may be enlightened for modem convenience and appearance, but that young men may be enlightened for Christian leadership more quickly, more effi­ciently; that they may be endowed with a zest for learning and for leadership that will speed and enhance the part they play in society. 
If we ask for recreational facilities, it is not that our men and our boys wish to neglect the serious business of education. 
Rather, it is otir experience, calling for those things which bring health of body and heart, to lengthen the life and give the glow of competitive spirit to the rich routines of reasons. ^ 
If we ask endowments for study, it is not to hand out opportunity on a platter to young men too apathetic to seek i t Instead, we wish to free young men from the delays in time and the dismay of spirit that come with struggling daily against the long-dem­onstrated truths of economic adversity. Our objective is not the subsidy of lethargy, but the stimulus of genius. 
If we ask for better pay for teachers and better equipment for classroom and labora­tory, it is not that our towers may be ivory. Rather, the teacher who is secure in his per­sonal life, who moves in a professional en­vironment in which his work is unhampered and his pride and dignity can flourish, trans­mits to his students a competence impossible to produce through pedagogical penury and makeshift. 
We can hope and work always far the day of more effective leadership when Notre Dame men, imbued with sound principles of morality, will more largely influence the society of which they are part. 
It seems ,to me that there are two ap­proaches, and we must follow both. One is the creation of a sense of morality within boys who by their own gifts are already leaders. That is a process which has been followed through the ages, but with only varying success. In our own time we have seen such natural leadership in the power of the world seemingly recede to its farthest point from the religious basis upon which it must rest in a world of true peace and justice. 
The second course, which seems to be the particular mission of a Catholic University such as Notre Dame, is to create the spirit of leadership in moral men. 
NJ>. Strengthens Spiritual Practices 
In the young men who now storm our gates seeking Catholic higher education, we have, as we know, a priceless reservoir of youth trained in the rich traditions of our American schools, most of them enjoying either the powerftil moral backgroimds of the Catholic home or the Catholic parochial or high school. Even those not of the Catholic faith, come to Notre Dame with a deep appreciation of those fundamentals of life which are as American as they are Catholic, as vital to home and country as they are to Church. 
With our spiritual heritage we can in­sure them of the continuing opportunities for strengthening those spiritual practices and for bringing to their faith the glorious revelation of its reconciliation with reason in the pulsing philosophy of the Scholastics. 
Notre Dame is rich in chapels, rich in priests, rich in laymen who arc competent to serve and to counsel the progress of char­acter and the salvation of souls. 
(Continued on Page 39) 

Father John Cavanaugh addresses the alumni gathered at the banquet in the ^ faculty dining room of the Dining Hall on lune 5. Seated at the table ore Hony W Hogan (behind flowers). Rev. Thomas A. Steiner. CS.C, provincial; Dean Clarence 
E, Manion, Father Robert Sweeney, and Ed 'Moose" Blouse. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1U 


UNIVERSITY 
Vfiih a teaching staff that includes some outstanding authorities on Litiugy. the graduate program will comprise a four-year cycle of courses leading to the degree of Master of Arts. 
An undergraduate course in liturgy, which means literally the public wor­ship of God, is being offered this 
By EDWABD A. nSCHER, '37 

SUMMER SESSION began June 21 with an enrollment oi about 1,700. 
EIGHTY YOUNG WOMEN received "diplomas" at Notre Dame, June 3. They are wives of eight>- veterans who completed their courses here this semester. Inscrip­tions on the' "sheepskins" stated that each wife has "sur\'ived the poshvar hardships of South Bend housing, the rigors of In­diana weather, and with courage beyond the call of dut>- has helped her husband to a happy graduation." The certificates were presented at a farewell partj- in the Vet-ville recreation hall. 
THE SENIOR CLASS made a three-day spiritual retreat just before Com­mencement The retreat closed with a communion breakfast at which George 
W. Stralce, Houston, Tex., oil executive, was the principal speaker. 
THE FIRST GROUP of students en­rolled in graduate courses in Correc­tional Administration started their six-month internships this month, in various state and federal agencies. 
These cotirses at Notre Dame prepare selected students for careers in proba­tion, parole, and institutional work as well as for work in related agencies dealing with delinquency prevention and control. Students are awarded the Master of Science in Education degree upon successful completion of two se­mesters of graduate study and six-month internship in an approved insti­tution or agency. 
A SIMPLICITY OF FAITH among Catholics in the United States "seldom seen elsewhere" was praised by the Rev. Victor White, O.P., of Blackfriars, O.xford, Eng­land, during a recent visit to the campus. 
"It is hard to explain, but it is a lack of shyness about the faith, a matter-of-factness, a directness, that you seldom find in Eng­land," Father White obscr\ed. 
A FELLOWSHIP for advanced study and research leading to more efficient use of farm products has been estab­lished here by the Central Soya com­pany of Fort Wayne, Ind. 
A bachelor's degree in chemical en­gineering is a prerequisite for the fel­lowship and the award is made on the basis of merit. The recipient will re­ceive $1,200 for the calendar year, plus 

TODAY 
remission of tuition and fees, in addi­tion to any benefits for which he may qualify under the GI Bill of Rights. The fellowship permits full time work lead­ing to the master's degree in one year. 
DR. WALDEMAR GURI.AN, professor of Political Science, returned here for the summer session after teaching for five weeks ai the Universities of Bonn and Cologne in Germany, under auspices of the Rockefeller Foundation. 
DR. FERDINAND A. HEBMENS. profes­sor of Political Science, is teaching courses in constitutional government at the Universities of Bonn and Munster under a special grant from the Bocke­feller Foundation. Before returning to the campus in September he will study the functioning of the new French and Italian constitutions. 
PROFESSOR THOMAS E. DOWNEY, of the Department of History, will offer courses in the History and Civilization of the United States during the summer ses­sion at the University of Havana, Cuba. While in Cuba he will also do research in the histor)- of the Caribbean area. 
PROFESSOR JAMES A. CORBETT. of the Department of History, is in France conducting research in Mediaeval His­tory for use in the second volume of his Catalogue of Manuscripts of Medi­oeval History. The first volume of this study covered manuscripts on Medi­aeval Alchemy in Paris; the second will list the manuscripts in the other public libraries of France. While overseas. Professor Corbett will also collect mo­terial for the Archives at Notre Dame on French missionaries who came to the United States during the nineteenth century. 
INDI\aDU.A.L ACHIEVEMENT in the publishing of The Journalist, experimental weekly of the Department of Journalism, w^as noted and rewarded by The South Bend Tribune. 
Five $20 awards were presented to out­standing editors and writers by Franklin 
D. Schurz, vice-president and treasurer of the Tribune. 
A LITURGICAL PROGRAM at an ad­vanced level is being offered by the Graduate School during the summer session. 
FI\ ^ FACTORS which "could lead to an open shooting war" bet\veen the U. S. and Russia were discussed by Dr. Waldc­mar Gurian at a forum on War and Peace. The five factors are: 
1.
 The continuous possibility of sudden incidents which cannot be foreseen. 

2.
 Fear of the future on both sides, a ' fear that could cause a preventive war against Russia or a counter-offensive war by her to protect her satellites. 

3.
 The existence of the two-power sys­tem that makes situations inflexible. 

4.
 The belief inside Russia that she is threatened by capitalists who want to up­root her regime. 

5.
 Hysteria which had been created by Communist propaganda and the actions of men like Molotov. 


MARRIAGE VOWS were renewed by more than 200 married Notre Dame stu­dents and their wives during the Cana Conference held here. The Rev. Theo­dore Hesburgh, C.S.C., chaplain of Vet-ville, conducted the conference. 
DR. P.\UL C. B.'VRTHOLOMEW, Pro­fessor of Political Science, was one of thirty-five leading professors of government and administration to attend a two-week con­ference with government leaders in Wash­ington to study and observe the practical operations of the United States Govern­ment. 
IF THE SUPREME COURrs decision 
in the Champaign School Case is to 
be taken literally, then all reference to 
the Declaration of Independence and 
other notable American dociunents men­
tioning God must be eliminated from a 
the nation's public school books. 
This view was expressed by Dr. 
Clarence E. Manion, dean of the Col­
lege of Law at Notre Dame, speaking 
at the aimual communion breakfast of 
the Catholic Lawyers Guild of Detroit. 
This decision, he said, calls for "a wall 
of separation between God and gov­
ernment." 
The literal meaning of the decision. Dean Manion added, is that public school books "must hereafter be ex­purgated of all references to such ftm­damental American documents as the Mayflower Compact, the Declaration of Independence, Washington's Farewell Address, Lincoln's Gettysburg Address, Madison's Journals of the Constitutional convention, the Northwest Ordinance of 1787. and the Constitutions of Michigan, Illinois and practically every other state in the Union, all of whicA begin with a _ prayer to God as the source of all of ^ OUT liberties." 
Dean Monion also pointed out that the decision involved such practical considerations as "continued tax ex­emption of church property, modifica­tion of United States coins to eliminate mention oi God, and the almost univer­sal existence oi state legislation against blasphemy and immorality." 
THE DEBATE TEAM, under direction of Coach Leonard Sommer, won seventy out of eighty-five matches. While gaining promi­nence as one of the outstanding collegiate debate teams in the nation, the Notre Dame wranglers were victorious in four of the seven tournaments in which they partici­pated. They tool; top honors in the Iowa Invitational Tournament, the Purdue Nov­ice Tourney, the Eau Claire Speech Tour­nament and the Tau Kappa Alpha National Discussion Meet, at the University- of Indi­ana. In the latter meet, Notre Dame de­bater Frank Finn, of Denison, Tex., won the VVachtel Plaque, s\Tnbolic of the best speaker in the contest, for the third con­secutive year. 
The season was highlighted with a debate on the subject of Universal Military Train­ing against a team from Purdue. This de­bate is one of the nine outstanding debates chosen from throughout the United States which will be printed in the 1947-48 Uni­versity Debaters' Annual. 
REASONS WHY students attending Catholic schools should share in public welfare benefits such as free bus rides, textbooks, school lunches, end health services, were explained by the Rev. Dr. lohn A. O'Brien, of Notre Dame, in an article in the May 19 issue of "The Christian Century." leading Protestant weekly. 
The article, entitled "Equal Treatment for All Children." was written by Father O'Brien at the invitation of Dr. Paul Hutchinson, editor of the publication. Primary purpose oi the article is to set forth to thousands of Protestant ministers and church workers the reasonableness of claims by Catholics to participate in the auxiliaries to education provided by public taxes. 
Most of present tension and appre­hension by non-Catholics on this ques­tion is attributed by Father O'Brien in his article to a misunderstanding of Catholic aims and objectives. "The so-called school problem can be solved to the satisfaction of all. he observed, if all parties bring to the discussion a spirit of friendliness, understanding and good will. Catholics are not seeking to maneuver their Church into a specially privileged position nor are they seeking public funds to teach the Catholic reli­gion," he added. 
Catholics, for example, he said, are asking that their children be not penal­ized for exercising their unquestioned Constitutional right (to attend a non­profit, semi-public reUgious school) by being excluded from pubUc hecdth pro­grams, supported by city, state or fed­eral funds, to safeguard the health of our nation's youth. The welfare of a community and the health and strength of a nation demand that such public benefits be distributed without regard to the particular type of school attended, he declared. Any other policy, he con­tinued, would infringe upon the consti­tutional rights of parents to send their children to accredited schools of their own choosing, and would be discrimina­tory, unfair and un-American to the core. 
The article points out that viitnallr all public diacuasion of the school qa««­tion hoa "miaaad the boaL" It has been based on the mistaken assmnptioii, Fother O'Brien obserred. thot Catholics are striving to impose upon the pahlie the cost oi educating their children. The fact is that Catholics are saving the tax­payers of the nation more than $400,000,000 annually through the educa­tion of more than two million children without a peimy of state or federal aid, he said. This tremendous fact, he em­phasized, has been forgotten or ignored. 
"The present tension regarding the school question, bristling with suspicion, fear, misunderstanding and rancor, brings out vividly the harm that results hrom the regrettable aloofness in almost every community oi the representatives of the three major faitlis," Father 03rien wrote. "What is desperately needed is for representatives oi these faitha to meet together, not to discuss theological differences, but to find ways of working together in a spirit of Cliristion unity ior the common welfare. 
"We shall invite all oi them to visit the work being done in the church-re­lated schooL to see ior themselvea ita high standards, its Americanism, its thoroughly Christian atmoaphere in which good will toword dtizens oi oU iaiths ond colors is inculcated not mere­ly aa a dvic doty but a religioua on* OS well 
Aiter reading proofs oi this orticle, Mir. Dewitt Wallace, editor oi "Beadet'a DigeaL" dectared.- "It'a a aignal service to reUgious tolerance when on article by an outstanding Catholic prieat ia . ieatured in o leading Proteatant weeUy. But when that article ia oa friendly, nea­controveraiol and peranosively logical aa thia contribution to The Cfariatiaa Century,' that aervice becomea an event of major import." 
A FOUR-YEAR COURSE in Geology will be offered at Notre Dame starting in September. The new Department of Ge­ology is under direction of Dr. Archie J. McAlpin, former head of the Department of Geology at West Texas State College and formerly with the United States Geological Survey and the United States Bureau of Reclamation. He has been teaching here since 1946, when geology was taught as a special division in the Department of Chem­istry. His assistant in the new department will be Dr. Raymond Gutschick, who came tc Notre Dame last year from the Univer­sity of Illinois. 
EDWARD M. HIGH-JONES, of Keble College, Oxford, England, is a special mem­ber of the faculty in the Department of modem European history. He has recently published a volume in the "Teach .Your­self History" scries and previously had pub­
Father William P. McMullen. left, is shown with his sister, Mary Louise McMuUen,  a  lished, with  E. R.  Raddis,  "An American  
soprano who presented a concert in Washington Hall, and Father John D.  Experiment,"  a  book  on  the economic de­ 
Gallagher. C.S.C., her accompanist.  velopment of the United States.  

The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Report to the Board of Directors 
Br HABBY G. HOGAN Chairman, Notre Dame Foundation and President Alumni Association 
The Principal Excerpts from the Address at the Alunmi Banquet, June 5 

"The Foundation is Big Business." This statement in a recent letter from E. M. Morris, '06, confirms what I have thought from the start. This is particularly true as we move outside the alumni into the broad field of non-alumni contributors. 
Competition From Friends: For example, from our 217 City Chair­men we receive reports of local drives for colleges, schools, churches, hospitals — largely Catholic. Notre Dame may seem far away. But while we avoid competition oi antagonism among these friends, we must make Notre Dame's case verj' tangible for our Foundation workers. 
Need for Pictures: 
We need to know our needs and our po­tentials. If 10,000 alumni gave an average $50 annually, we would have $500,000 from that source. In 1947, 7,887 alumni gave an average of $31. We believe we can in­crease the number and the "sights." 
Non-Alumni Generous But Few: Non-alumni friends in 1947 numbered 203, gi\'ing an average of $1,500. We should be able to increase the numbers and the total amount without too much problem, to equal the alumni total. 
Must Multiply Friends: 
However, to secure the projected $25,000,000 within the suggested 10-year period, the 50-50 suggestion above must be altered, and non-alumni friends multiplied on a 4 to 1 ratio with alumni. To begin that program we suggest that our alumni now begin to enlist at least one non-alumnus friend for each two alumni. This group would not only give, whatever their starting gift might be, but would themselves spread the habit among other friends. 
Beview oi Large Gifts: The above program is volume. Big Busi­ness. From 1942 to 1948, 420 friends giv­ing $500 or more have given Notre Dame ahnost $1,500,000. Of this number, 248 were alumni, 172 non-alumni. You can see the advantages of increasing the number, both alumni and non-alumni. Amount will follow. 
7,887 contributors of 1947. There is no substitute for personal solicitation. While we have multiplied our numbers of alumni givers two and one-half times in five years, and multiplied our total amount three times in the same period, the job of raising two and one-half million dollars annually av­erage is far beyond this scale, which has produced only $1,800,000 in seven years. 
Foundation Differs From Big Business in Nature: 
The Foundation is non-profit, neither producing nor rendering a direct service. While we must have Big Business technique to achieve volume, our sales program is the intangible faith of people in Notre Dame. We differ also, however, from the major philanthropic causes which depend entirely on gifts for support. 
We Must Show Deficits or Expansion Needs: 
As a result of the above differences the Foundation must have a clear program, based on proof of deficits existing in the necessar)' work of the University, or needs for expansion to do the necessary work of the Universit)'. 
Building Basic Practical Needs: For example, an increase in the facilities 
for the Department of Chemistry is a crit­ical need for the proper conduct of this valuable and famous department of the Universit}-. Whether this takes the form of a new building or a new unit supplement­ing present facilities, the minimum funds necessary will be $1,500,000. ' And, apart somewhat from the academic, is the need for a Guest House on the campus to serve alumni, parents and friends. This would be a meeting place for our sales­men, just as many large firms maintain resi­dence facilities for out-of-town guests. 
The many other needs of the University will be similarly shown in tangible, orderly fa.<'hion. 
Immediate Building Program Must Be Sound: 
The soundness of the building program is of course a matter of the University's study. We have faith in the University judgment. We believe that the University can have equal faith in the ability of alumni to further this program. 
Committees and Manuals: 
While we have no desire to overburden our workers with organization or literature, much progress can be made and much time saved by proper use of the experience of 
One of the reunion innovations the doss of '28 introduced was the choir, made up of Alumni Solicitors Key to Success: '28 Glee Qub men who sang the Mass for the deceased members of the class. 
The Big Business success of the Founda­Father Andrew Mulreany, C.S.C '28, is directing, and \nnce Comey is the organist. tion depends on the zeal of alumni to so­Frank Creodon (front row, center), member of the Paulist .Choir in Chicago, or­licit, especially the 248 large donors, the ganized the group, about half of whom are shown here. 
Michael I. Ney, oi Omaha, who received one degree in 1897 and another in 1898. was the only member oi the '98 class who was able to come to the campus ior the reunion. Mr. Ney was also present ior the reunion in 1947, and he renewed this year many oi the line friendsliips he had made at the University a year earlier. Mr. Ney is shown here with Father John Murphy, vice-president, at a dinner held in the faculty dining room of the Dining Hall on June 4. 
our alumni and friends in the fields of or­ganization and sales, and by the proper at­tractive presentation of our patterns and experience in convenient literature. 
All Recommendations Purely Advisory: In any recommendation of the Founda­tion, we are purely advisory, and the Uni­versity continues to be the author of deci-Csion s involving its progress. But in the work of aiding this progress financially, many suggestions naturally arise. 
Summary Asstimptions and Conclusions: Perhaps all of the foregoing might be considered a build-up to the stating of these summary bases for exploration, rejection or revision: 
1.
 Assume that Notre Dame cannot fully finance its expanded needs, and that this can only be done by free gifts from friends. 

2.
 Northwestern in 1947 showed a $14,000 profit for the year; Yale a $600,000 operating loss. Even if Notre Dame made a million dollars net — which of course is fabulous — it would still take 25 years to achieve what is actually an urgent building fund. 

3.
 And assume therefrom that Notre Dame cannot properly wait this 25 years — or the multiple of it actually necessarj-— 


^ to do what urgently needs to be done. 
Then the following conclusions appear: 

1. The Foundation as a Big Business project must be put in operation on a sound, active basis, with (a) a sound rea­son for raising money for Notre Dame, and 
(b) a sound method of presenting this -reason. 
2.
 There should be sufficient faith in Notre Dame's destiny to conclude that (a) Notre Dame will have students (b) that enrollment, however, with or without gov­ernment subsidy to students, may create financial problems, as may .the decrease of present sources of main or au.xiliary funds, and that (c) new sources of income should be advanced through the Foundation with­out delay. 

3.
 That a joint commitment of faith in the future of Notre Dame should be made by the University and its alumni and friends to plan on the beginning of a basic build­ing program to include the urgently needed chemistry facilities. .'\nd as soon as there is evidence of a flow of funds to make the project economically sound, the building of a Guest House to relieve the housing and feeding problems of outside visitors should be considered an almost equally urgent project. 


A Target Must Be Set Up: The real need, money, will come easier with a tangible target — a building pro­gram. Annual income will help, but vve must not lose sight of the exceptions, the 
possible large donors — more likely to be uncovered by the thorough solicitation. 
Thai* Are Valonchad Fields ef Aid: 
There arc other fields of financial aid be­ing opened — Wills and Bequests frcnn which very substantial aid can come, and Insurance, which brings many giving forms to the donor. 
Faith in Notie Dome: 
It should be concluded that Notre Dame will fulfill the crystal clear purpose for which it was established. ^It should be concluded that Notre Dame will gear itself to necessity and circumstances, but that through the Foundation-and-its alumni and friends, its destiny might well be greater and its achievements sooner. 
Competition in the philanthropic field, the need of the University, and the identity of the Foundation as Big Business make our consideration of the problems and our work matters of serious concern to us all. 
N. D. Lay Trustee Dies In Chicago on May 26 
William J. Corbett, a member of the As­sociate Board of Lay Trustees and a gener­ous and devoted friend of Notre Dame for many years, died in Mercy Hospital, Chi­cago, on May 26. 
The 75-year-old Chicagoan was president of the C. W. Marks Shoe Co. and a direc­tor of the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railroad. He was scheduled to receive an . honorary Doctor of Laws degree at the Jime 6 Commencement. It was awarded post­humously by Father John Cavanaugh, c.s.c, president, at the exercises. 
The Funeral Mass was offered in Holy Name Cathedral, Chicago, on May 29, with Father Cavanaugh delivering the' sermon. 
Surviving Mr. Corbett are the widow, a son, William J., Jr., '27, and a daughter. 

Monogram Club Elecfs Fred Miller President 
Fred Miller, of Milwaukee, 1928 football captain and volunteer assistant line coach during the past two seasons, was elected president of the Notre Dame Monogram club at the annual business meeting held in the Notre Dame Dining Halls on June 6. 
Ray Roy, of South Bend, former track star, was elected vice-president, while Steve Ronay, also of this city, was reelected sec­retary-treasurer. 
Named to the new board of directors were Judge Roger Kilcy, of Chicago, Greg Rice, of New York City, Johnny Nyikos, of Syracuse, N. Y., formerly of South Bend, and Ed Krause, Jake Kline and Joe Boland, all of South Bend. The latter is the retir­ing president. 
Rev. Vincent Mooney, c.s.c, of Colum­bus, O., was named chaplain of the club. Frank' Leahy, head coach and director of athletics, was the principal speaker. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

29 Students Receive Medals, Awards and Prizes; Ensigns Commissioned', Four "Dome" Award Recipients Announced 



Awards Presented at Class Day Exercises • 
Dome Awards 

Four seniors were named recipients of the annual Dome awards. The awards, s}inbolic of noteworthy service to the Uni­versity and excellence in academic record and extra-curricular activities, were made to: 
Mr. Boykin, magna cum laude graduate, president of the Law Club, and past presi­dent of the Student Council; 
Frank J. Keenan, Dover, N. H., editor of Scholastic, secretary of the Veterans Club, chairman of the student mock Republican national convention, and listed in "Who's Who in American Universities and Col­leges"; 
John F. McCormick, Lima, O., deputy grand knight of the K. of C , cum laude graduate. Student Council secretary, co-chairman of Junior Prom, aiid listed in g^ "Who's Who—"; • ' 
Mr. Sullivan, cum laude graduate, presi­dent of the senior class, president of the Monogram Club, president of the Boston Club, tackle, on the football team, chairman of the Senior Ball, and listed in "Who's Who—". 
Alumni Sons Elect Officers on Compus 
George C. Witteried, Jr., son of George C , '21, Chicago, is president of the Gen­eration Club, newly organized on the campus by the sons and grandsons of alumni. 
George A. Patterson, Jr.,' also of Chi­cago, is vice-president of the new organiza­tion, Ed McCarthy is secretary and Eric Rey de Castro is the treasurer. Ray Miller, Jr., is the sergeant-at-arms. Directors arc ^Jl Joe Harmon, Hal Plamondon, Tom Shee­han, Lou Keifer, Leo Vogel, Bob Sanford, Dick Feldpausch, Jim Vogel, Bill Fara­baugh, Tom Beckman, Bill Kennedy, Wal­ter Clements, Tom Botzum and Jim Carroll. 
Active members of the new club will be the students currentiy in school who are the sons or grandsons of former Notre Dame students. But also eli^ble for membership, according to the present plans, will be the alumni fathers and grandfathers of the cur­rent members. Other classifications of membership may be added later as the club develops. 
Tentative plans for the club include a pre-game get-together for members, their families and friends at the time of the Northwrestem-Notrc Dame football game next Nov. 13. Plans arc also being con­sidered for a spring get-together at the time of the Old Timers-Varsity football game and for a father-and-son golf match on the ^ . Uniyersity course. " ' 
Twenty-nine students were honored with prizes at the annual class day exercises in the Navy Drill Hall on June 5. 
George A. Sullivan, of East Walpole, Mass., football tackle and president of the senior class, received the Byron V. Kanaley prize for the senior athlete exemplar}- as a student and a leader of men. He introduced the speakers, Norbert J. Gcier, of Cashton, Wis., who gave the class oration, and John 
D. Harrington, of Brooklj-n, N. Y., who gave the valedictory' address. 
Donald N. Kersten, c.s.c, a seminarian in the Congregation of Holy Gross, was awarded the Breen medal for oratory. Medals were awarded to the members of the Notre Dame debating team, Francis Film, Jr., of Denison, Texas; William P. Dixon, Casper, Wyo.; Thomas R. Ninne­man, Tomah, Wis.; William T. Carey, 
• Pittsburgh, Pa., and Quintin E. Marlow, San Antonio, Texas. 
Oiatoiical Prizes Awarded 

The Cavanaugh-Goodrich prizes for the best orations dealing with the fundamentals of American government went to Donald A. Klene, of Quincy, 111.; William P. Dixon and Albert E. Grzebier, Prowdence, R. I. 
Quintin E. Marlow received the fresh­man oratorical prize and Owen J. Donley, of Elk Point, S. D., received the Meehan Medal for the best essay in English by a senior. 
The Mitchell Memorial .\ward for play­writing was won by Samuel J. Hazo, of Pittsburgh. Joseph L. O'Brien, of El Paso, Texas, received the American Institute of Chemists' student medal for the highest scholastic average in chemistrj-. 
Martin J. Rock, of Roberts, 111., was awarded the Farabaugh prize, established of Law. The Miles O'Brien prize, in mem­by Gallitzin A. Farabaugh, South Bend at­torney, for high scholarship in the College ory of the late Miles O'Brien, of South Bend, for excellence in mechanical draw­ing, went to Benjamin N. Pavlakovic, of Hobart, Ind. 
The Hoynes award for the law school senior with the best record in scholastic grades, application, deportment and achieve­ment was presented to Leonard C. Boykin, of Camden, S. C. Boykin and James D. Sullivan, of Helena, Mont, received the Vint. D. Vaughan memorial prizes for pro­ficiency in court trial practice. Sullivan also won the Nathan Burkan memorial prize for the best paper on copyright law. 
The Andrew F. Kervick gold medal for drawing went to John L. Sosenheimer, of Fort Wayne, Ind., and the Nellie Wynn Kervick gold medal for architecture went to Patrick J. Weishapl, of.Norfolk, Neb. Both awards were founded by Prof. Francis 
W. Ker\'ick, head of the department of ar­chitecture, in honor of his parents. 
Francis A. Prokes, of Jackson, Minn., was the recipient of the school medal of the American Institute of Architects, awarded annually to a senior for general excellence in architecture. John L. HafF, of West Frankfort, 111., ranked second. 
The Monsignor Francis A. O'Brien prize for special study and distinction in a his­torical essay was awarded to Edward J. LcCouteur. The Father Cavanaugh prize fo: the best biographical sketch of a per­sonage who has contributed to the upbuild­ing of Notre Dame was awarded to James 
J. John, of Browersville, Minn. 
Karl G. Schweinfest, of Pleasantville, N. Y., recevied the J. Sinnott Myers prize for excellence in editorial composition in the department of journalism. The Hugh A. O'Donnell gold medal was presented to James H. Butler, of Olney, 111., for the high­est average in the Department of Journalism ia his senior year. 
The Donoghue prizes for essays on labor relations and labor problems were won, re­spectively, by John O. Grimes, of Birming­ham, Ala., and John D. Harrington, of Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Hcanilton Award 

Alfred R. Westrick, of Hinsdale, 111., re­ceived the Hamilton award for the college of commerce graduate with the highest scholastic average. The Hamilton medal for the graduate showing the most improvement in public speaking went to James J. Mur­tagh, of Toledo, O. 
Climaxing the class day program, Capt. Anthony L. Danis, u.s.N., commandant of the naval unit at Notre Dame, commis­sioned 11 members of the reserve officers' training corps as ensigns in the naval re­serve. They will be placed on inactive duty. 
Commissioned were: John F. Brimke, Ap­pleton. Wis.; Robert R. Burke, Detroit, Mich.; Thomas E. Coyne, Chicago; Jack E. Eskilson, Richmond Heights, Mo.; Paul V. Folchi, Norwood, O.; Leary B. Kreissl, Chi­cago; John L. Haflf, West Frankfort, IlL; Charles F. Ix>urich, Chicago; George H. Wrape, Clayton, Mo.; Robert W. Owens, Tyrone, Pa.; Richard M. Znaniecki, Nanti­coke. Pa. 
'M 

THE ADVISOHY COUNCQ. OF THE COLLEGE OF COMMERCE 
FRONT ROW, left to right: Daniel P. HIggins, James Gerity, Judson Sayre, Father John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., presdoit, George Stnke, WilHani War­ren, Charles Reagan, and James Coston. TOP ROW: Robert H. O'Brien, O. J. Caron, Prof. Broob Smeeton, Phrf. Edmund Smith, assistant dean of the College of Commerce, John Reynolds, and Dean James E. McCarthy. MIDDLE ROW: Father John Murphy, C.S.C., vice-|insident, Robert W-tniltno Neil Hurley, Edward Quinn, John Kirby, William Daley, Robert Dwyer, P. C. Reilly, Jr., John CShaughnessy, John Whitaker, John Coleman, Noah 
Dietrich, and Father Robert S»reeney, C.S.C. 

Commerce Advisory Council Created 
Charles M. Reagan, '17, New York City, vice-president and a director of Paramount Pictures, Inc., is the first chairman of the newly-created Advisory Council for the Col­lege of Commerce. 
The Advisory Council, Father John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c, president, indicated^ will "bring men of achievement into closer asso­ciation with the work of the College of Commerce at Notre Dame and will enable these men to share the responsibility of training tomorrow's leaders." The first meeting of the council, featuring the elec­tion of officers, was held at Notre Dame on May 21 and 22. Judson S. Sayre, president of Bendix Home Appliances, Inc., South Bend, was named vice-chairman. 
To Advise on Courses 

Among the purposes of the new Council, according to Father Cavanaugh, will be to advise on courses in the College of Com­merce at Notre Dame, to enlarge the rela­tionships between the College and industry, and to offer suggestions for specific studies on subjects beneficial to industry. The Council also will assist in the establishment of a plan in which at least one course in the curriculum of the College of Commerce will be staffed by experts from industry. 
This new course, believed to be the first of its kind at any American college, will be known as the "Bishop O'Hara Business Seminar," honoring the Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, cs.c , former president of Notre Dame and now Bishop of Buffalo, who founded the College of Commerce. 
A required course for all seniors in the College of Commerce at Notre Dame, the new lecture series will bring nationally-known leaders in business and industry to Notre Dame to lecture in the College of Commerce for periods of one to two weeks. The unique benefit of the course will be the coordination of all the. courses taught students in the College of Commerce dur­ing their four years, with practical applica­tion of principles by men of experience. 
Lecturers Deugnoted 

The first two lecturers for the new course, which will start next September, are Robert 
H. O'Brien, of New York City, Secretary of Paramount Pictures, Inc., a member of the council, and Colonel Daniel Martin, of Houston, Tex., director of operations for the Hughes Tool Company. 
Members of the Council besides Mr. Rea­gan, Mr. Sayre and Mr. O'Brien include: T. 
E. Braniff, president of the Braniff Interna­tional Airways, Dallas, Tex.; O. J. Caron, president of the Caron Spinning Company, Rochelle, 111.; John A. Coleman, formerly chairman of the board of governors of the New York Stock Exchange and a partner in Adler, Coleman and Co., brokerage firm in New York City; James E. Coston, theatre properties executive, Chicago, 111.; William 
R. Daley, president of the Otis and Co., Cleveland, O.; Noak Dietrich, executive vice-president of the Hughes Tool Com­pany, Houston, Tex.; Robert Dwyer, vice-president of the Anaconda Copper Mining Co., New York City; and Kerwin H. Ful­ton, president of Outdoor Advertising, Inc., New York City. 
Also: James Gerity, president of the Adrian-Michigan Corp., die casting com­pany, Adrian, Mich.; Robert H. Gore, pub­lisher of the Ft. Lauderdale (Fla.) Daily News and prominent hotel owner, realtor and insurance executive; James M. Haggar, president of the Haggar Co., clothing manu­facturer, Dallas, Tex.; Robert M. Hamilton, '34, president of the Dumore Co., manu­facturer of electric motors, Racine, Wis.; Daniel P. Higgins, of the Eggen and Hig­gins architectural firm. New York City; Charles Hook, chairman of the Board of the American Rolling Mill Co., Middletown, O.; Nca C. Hurley, '32, president of the Independent Pneumatic Tool Co., Chicago, IlL; John T. Kirby, vice-president of the 
W. R. Grace Company, New York City; and Peter C. Reilly, Jr., vicc-presiden^ Reilly Tar and Chemical Corporation, Indianap­olis, Ind. 
lUSag CoBtiaaad 

Also: Herbert A. Mendelson, real estate investor, Los Angeles, Calif.; Jrfm F. O'Shaughnessy, oil and gas executive, Wich­ita, Kans.; Edward J. Quinn, partner in the Murphy, Iianier and Quinn, accountant; auditor and tax consultant firm, Chicago, IlL; William H. Rcgnery, president of the Western Shade Cloth Co., Chicago, H a George W. Strake, independent oil opera­tor and lay trustee of the Univeisity, Hous­ton, Tex; William K. Warren, president of the Warren Petndeum Corp., Tulsa, Okla.; Jack P. Whitaker, president of the Whit­aker Cable Corp., North Kansas City, Ma ; and John J. Reynolds, real estate executivsL 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 


Report of the Secretary-Treasurer 
By lAMES E. ABMSTBONG Alumni Secretary and Foundation Executive THce-Choiiman 
For the Alumni Board and for the Alumni Banquet, June 5. 1948 
Introductory 

Unquestionably, the most important de­velopment in the life of the Alumni Asso­ciation has been the Universitj- of Notre Dame Foundation. 
Any qualms that may have existed that the new program would supersede or ham­per alumni development must have long since faded before the year's e\'idence of a new wtality that has gone far beyond the reflection in dollars. 
Primarj' in the new life is the participa­tion in tangible measurement of 72 per cent of our total lay alumni, more than any previous figure in our histor>', and more than any previous record of general alumni participation in any other college annual alumni fund. That is in itself a record of achievement. 
But of almost equal importance in the general life of the Alumni Association is the effectiveness of the Foundation program in bringing back into active participation many alumni, especially in the more mature class brackets, who had yielded their places in our program to younger men and retired to relative inactivit>-. Under the new co­ordinated program we have the active ac­ceptance of the total challenge by our total alumni — a resurgence of force of ines­timable value to Notre Dame. 
Local Alumni Clubs 

Seven new Local Alumni Clubs have been formed since June, 1947, and several others are in the process of organization — stimulated by the Foundation program and the new horizons for all alumni activity, to­gether with, of course, the return to civilian life and more normal activity of the thou­sands of Notre Dame men in the services. There arc now 107 Local Alumni Clubs. 
The Council of Local Club Presidents, which attracted 77 Club delegates last No­vember 21 and 22, resulted in a substantial step forward for the Clubs, including the preparation of an effective new Manual of Alumni Club Organization prepared under the direction of Vice-President Robert Hell-rung and William R. Dooley. 
Two annual events have stressed during the year the growing activit>' and power of the Clubs. 
1. Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, founded in 1938 through the ef­forts of the Notre Dame Club of New York, observed its 10th anniversar)- on Sunday, December 7, with more Clubs than ever before taking part in the tribute from coast to coast. 
2. Universal Notre Dame Night, founded in 1924, observed its Silver Jubilee fittingly and in a record-breaking fashion, in Phila­delphia, home of its founder, the late John 
H. Neeson. Both national hook-up in radio and television helped give unprecedented coverage, supplemented by better press pub­licity than ever before. 
The Alumni Directory 

Well under way, needing only the full cooperation of alumni in returning the bio­graphical postcards is the new Alumni Director)'. 
It is hoped that we can issue this in early Fall, with alphabetical, geographical. Class and classified divisions, for the full realiza­tion of the increasing interests and fraternity of Notre Dame men. There are of course problems of mechanics and costs which will be given thorough consideration, but the need and the utility of such a directory seem to be universal. 
Placement Program 

Under William R. Dooley, the Associa­tion placement program continues to hold together the organization of central and Local Club placement facilities adequate by evidence for the needs of Notre Dame men. 
Chairman Bernard J. Bird and the Buffalo 
meeting on May 27 at the Buffalo Athletic Club. Plans were discussed for the inune­diate and future activities of the Committee in thot area. Under the capable leader­ship of Bemie Bird, and with the assistance of a very fine representative group of Committeemen. Buffalo has the deteimiation to carry out a suc­cessful Foundatiou program.* 
A special committee of the Alumni Board made a study of the program and through Chairman Daniel J. O'Neil of New York submitted a report to the University which will implement the program as soon as ex­pansion is indicated. 
Law Alumni Association 

The 1948 Conmiencement marks a sig­nificant development in alumni progress with the organization of an alumni associa­tion of Notre Dame lawyers. This new organization will supplement the general alumni organization with programs directed toward the common ties and interests of ^ i the Notre Dame men in the legal profession. 
University Recognition 

Alumni interest and loyalty has been rec­ognized by the University during the past year in several outstanding appointments. 
E. M. Morris, South Bend, founder and head of the Associates Investment Com­pany, was elected president of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at its November meeting. 
Edgar Kobak, New York City, head of the Mutual Broadcasting System, was chosen to head the Advisory Council in 
 (N. Y.) City Committee held their initial 
*
 In-the picture from left to right arc: James 


E.
 Sc>Tnour, chemical e-vccutive; Hcnr>* E. Weiss, general manager of Chalmers-Allis plant, Buffalo; Dr. Robert J. Burns, dentist; Alfred C. Ryan, general manager of Houdaille-Hershcy plant, Buffalo; William P. Dowdall, Jr., president. Federated Mar­kets Inc.; Bernard J. Bird, city treasurer; John H. Travers, Jr., assistant \-ice-president, Buffalo Cham­ber of Commerce; Anthony W. Brick, attorney; John L. Hoelscher, club president; James D. Invin, secretary, Irwin Food Brokers Inc.; A. Gordon Bennett, circulation manager, Buffalo "Courier-E-X­


press;" Donald D. Love, architect; Charles A. Han­nah, district manager. Line Material Co. 
Other committeemen, not present for the picture are: John G. Byrne, manager, Niagara Food In­dustries; Francis H. Connors, city treasurer of Ar­cade, N. Y.; James J. Dunnigan, president, Buffalo Trotting Association; Daniel P. Falsioni, attorney; Robert P. Gallou^y, attorney; Augustus E. Jenkins, manager, Vento Steel Products Co.; William E. Miller, district attorney, Niagara County; Frank No\-ak, sporting- goods dealer. ^ 
M 
Volume 26, No. 4, July-Aug., 1948 

On Monday, lune 7, the day following Commencement, the priests of the dioceses of Fort Wayne and Lafayette in Indiana (the Lafayette diocese was until a few years ago a part of the Fort Wayne diocese) gathered at Notre Dame to honor Moat Her. John F. Noll, LLO.. '15, bishop of Fort Wayne, on the golden anniversary of his or­dination to the priesthood. Bishop Noll offered a solemn pontifical Mass in Soczed Heart Church and tliis was followed by a banquet in the Dining Hall. He is shown here as the procession before the Mass proceeded from the Main Building to the Church. The entrance to the Alumni-Foundation office (former Carroll Hall) is in the background. 
Science and Engineering of the University. And in May, Charles Reagan, New York City, vice-president of Paramount Pictures, was made the head of the newly formed f~^ Council for the College of Commerce. 
Miscellaneous 

There are many details that could extend into interesting but prolonged evidence of the maturing of the Notre Dame man, col­lectively and individually. 
Certainly it would be a mistake to omit the significant Natural Law Institute held on the campus December 12 and 13 through the sponsorship of the Notre Dame Club of New York City. So successful was it that the University has declared it an an­nual event. 
It would be a mistake not to point out the improvements in the Notre Dame ALUMNUS this year under the guiding hands of William R. Dooley and John De­fant, with the addition of color, and the added benefits of the professional publica­tions counsel engaged in the program of the Foundation, in which the ALUMNUS has 
_ played a prominent part. Circulation for 
P the ALUMNUS has approached the 20,000 figure throughout the year. 
I would be remiss if I did not thank Harry Hogan for a magnificent job of vol­unteer and unremunerated hard work in di­recting the Foundation organization and traveling at his own expense to the four comers of the country to make it work. Father John Cavanaugh, Father Robert Sweeney, the Foundation and Alumni Office Staffs have done heroic work in the pioneer­ing details of integrating the new program with the rising tides of the old. 
They have only been exceeded in their devotion and their ability by the inspired response of Notre Dame men everywhere in the near and far places, in the metropolitan and in the sparsely populated areas. 
The total picture is one of encourage­ment, of promise and of faith renewed by the evidences of the patronage of Our Lady ir: the common task before us all. 

Report on Corporation Giving 

In the development of the program of the University of Notre Dame Foundation, the potentials of gifts from business cor­porations have become increasingly encour­aging. 
Both on .the basis of a growing apprecia­tion by business of the necessity for success­ful education, and on the basis of tax bene­fits accruing to corporations from philan­thropy, education has become the increasing object of corporate gifts. 
To study this field specifically, and to de­velop its potentials more fully. President Harry Hogan appointed a Committee of Foundation Governors consisting of Henry 
C. Wurzer (Iowa), chairman, John E. Ca»­sidy (Illinois), Hugh M. O'Neill (Ohio), John E. Moore (Michigan), and Galvin Hudson (Teimessee). 
The Committee has already sent out to City Chairmen and other officers of the Foundation and the Alumni Association a particularly fine and comprehensive article on corporation giving to higher education which appeared in the May issue of the Atlantic Monthly magazine. 
Suggestions on enlisting corporation in­terest and support will be given by this general Committee to the City Committees and to individual aliunni, especially to those who are in a position to influence corpora­tions with which they are connected. 

Report on Insurance Giving 

The field of insurance giving is one which has not been developed sufficiently to give much pattern or precedent. 
However, the national Committee on In­surance Giving appointed by President Harry Hogan, which met at Notre Dame on .'\pril 16 and 17, was unanimous in its conclusion that in the many forms of insur­ance there are unlimited opporttmities for enlisting financial support for Notre Dame. 
The Committee is headed by Frank How-land, now of Detroit, with Jerome Arnold of Davenport, James H. Brennan of Chi­cago, Joseph Casasanta of South Bend, John 
T. Balfe of New York, Jay L. Lee of De­troit, Joseph R. Stewart of Kansas City and Paul Hoeffler of Providence, as members. 
The Committee and sub-committee there­under, will study the various phases of in­surance, and will make recommendations to all alumm', to the City Committees, and particularly to the many Notre Dame men and friends in the insiurance business. 
In the general projection for raising an annual revenue of $2,500,000 it is pointed out that if an average of only two policies of only $1,000 each, were written in each Chairman City per year, it would result in an ultimate annual income of almost z half million dollars from this field alone. The projection of 500 policies for the low insur­ance figure of $1,000 each on a national scale should be a modest projection. 

Report on Wills and Bequests 

One of the most productive and natural channels of financial support for American higher education has been the generous re­membrance of colleges and universities in the wills and bequests of philanthropic alumni and friends. 
Because the program in this field is one which profiits from special study and atten­tion. President Harry G. Hogan has ap­pointed a conunittee of Foundation officers to make a national study, from which de­
tailed suggestions will flow to the City Com­mittees and to individual alumni, and par­ticularly to Notre Dame men in the legal profession, in banking and trust work, in insurance or accounting work, all channels which promote such remembrances. 
James P. Swift (Texas) heads the na­tional committee, with Leo B. Ward (Cali­fornia) and E. A. Berker>- (New York). Sub-committees will be appointed in special fields as the study advances. 
A legal booklet, dealing with the forms for bequests, is in process, which the Com­mittee will circulate among the above men­tioned groups of alumni and friends. 
The organization of the association of Notre Dame's law alumni will prove a strong factor in developing this phase of the Foundation. 
In the genera] projection of the §2,500,000 annual revenue program, the writing of a $1,000 remembrance of Notre Dame into 500 wills each year, Avhirh means little more than two in each of the Chair­men Cities, would result in the ultimate contribution of a half million dollars. 
Wills and bequests are also one of the most productive channels of the large capi­tal gifts necessar}- for buildings and perma­nent endowment additions. 
Ida BsnicelU, a librarian at Notre Dame and a sister of Orlando Bonicelli. '44, stands 
All of these channels, and the estate tax 
beside a few of the many exhibits displayed at 50th anniversary o{ the Architecture 
benefits, will be studied by the Committee 
 The photograph on the wall is that of the late Henry 
and included in or added to the Department's founding.
 forthcom­

J. Schlacks, iiist professor of architecture. 
ing legal brochure. 

Dept. of Architecture Observes 
EXPENSE REPORT July 1, 1947 to May 1, 1948 University Accounting Dept. 


50th Anniversary of Founding 
The Foundation 

A half-centur>- of progress and accom­Under the leadership of Professor Ker-Salaries and wages §20,398.72 plishment which began when a young vick, who has been Head of the Department Supplies and expense .... 33,818.48* Cuban student came to the University of of Architecture at Notre Dame since 1909, Repairs and replacements 514.23 Notre Dame in 1898 was obser\'ed May 3 the department has made rapid strides. Office equip, and fum 4,519.75 by the Department of Architecture. Professor Kervick combined with Vincent The student was Eugenio Rayneri, who Fagan, '20, of Mishawaka, Ind., to design §59,251.18 has since become one of the foremost archi­several residence halls on the Notre Dame 
•Includes items of professional serv­tects of the Western Hemisphere. It was campus. ices (American City Bureau) §8,700, because of his desire for an architectural 
Many other graduates of the Department special bulletins (printing) §8,166.73, education at Notre Dame that the Depart­of Architecture at Notre Dame have dis­stationery and office supplies §5,969. ment of Architecture was founded fifty tinguished themselves with architectural Several of these items represent early years ago. To commemorate the anniver­achievements in the United States. Patrick and probably non-repeating items at­sary of the department, the Indiana Soci­M. O'Meara, '09, St. Louis, Mo., designed tendant on the launching of a com­ety of Architects held its annual meeting at the DePaul Hospital in St. Louis. Benedict pletely new program. The stationery Notre Dame in May, and a special exhibit J. Kaiser, '12, of Pittsburgh, Pa., designed and supplies item also includes earlier showing architectural work of students from the Geoi^etown University Hospital in work billed late by the Ave Maria the time of the establishment of the de­Washington, D. C, and was one of the 
partment down to the present day was on 
Press. 

architects on the beautiful Church of the display. 
The Alumni Association 

Sacred Heart in Pittsburgh. The mother 
When Rayneri came to Notre Dame from 
Salaries and wages §13,386.51 house of the Sisters of St. Joseph in Roches­
Havana, Cuba, just before the turn of the 
Supplies and expense .... 25,378.30* ter, N. Y., was planned by Joseph P. Flynn, 
century, he found that no architectural in­
Repairs and replacements 122.23 '16, of Rochester, and the Brand Whitlock 
struction was offered at the University. 
Ofiice equipment 688.65 housing project in Toledo, O., was di­
Classes had been taught in 1869, but later 
rected by Harold B. Munger, '15, chief ar­
were discontinued. Rayneri's urging led the 
§39,575.69 chitect of the Allied Architects of Toledo. 
University to establish the Department of 
•Includes the item of §7,579 for Architecture, with Professor Henry J. Next year the department will extend the printing the ALUMNUS (not included Schlacks as the first faculty member. Two course of architectural study at Notre Dame in the Association budget in previous Spanish brothers, Everisto and Jose Batlle from four to five years, according to Pro­years) and §7,204.45 for travel, of Barcelona, Spain, enrolled in the archi­fessor Kervick, to provide further opportu­which includes approximately §5,000 tecture course shortly afterward, and the nities in technical studies in order to insure for the travel expenses of the Local department continued to grow until -today Notre Dame's continued leadership in the Club Presidents. 

it maintains a nine-man faculty and an en­production of progressive American archi­rollment of 125 students. tects. 
For God, Country, 
Notre Dame In Glory Everlasting 

Lt. Sherman J. Andrews, ex. '40, a B-24 navigator who was reported missing in ac­tion over Germany on Dec. 11, 1944, and later officially listed as dead, is the 334th Notre Dame man reported killed in action in World War II. 
LT. SHERMAN I. ANDREWS, ex. '40 

Lt. Andrews was based in England with the Eighth Air Force. He had completed 19 missions and had received the Air Medal with Oak Leaf Cluster. His plane disap­peared during a storm while returning from d mission and is believed to have collided with another plane. There were no known survivors. 
He enlisted in the Air Force while em­ployed in the office of the War Depart­ment, Washington, entering the service Feb. 27, 1943. He received training at 
^ Maxwell Field, Montgomery, Ala., Cape 
* Girardeau, Mo., and Panama City, Fla., and was commissioned a second lieutenant at Selman Field, Monroe, La., on Feb. 26, 1944. Lt. Andrews went overseas in July, 1944. 
Lt. Andrews is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Edward P. Andrews of East-port, Maine, his widow, three children, two brothers, and a sister. 
Lt. John E. Dolan, ex. '34, was killed in action in France on Sept. 22, 1944, the 335th Notre Dame man to give his life for his country in World War II. 
In the action in which he was killed, John was cited for his gallantry and post­humously awarded the Silver Star and Purple Heart. Surrounded by the enemy, he led a small group of men to bring relief. Reaching his command post, he secured a platoon of riflemen and returned to the be­leaguered men. There he found the enemy  withdrawing. 
The citation accompanying the awards 
FRANK WALLACE ARTICLE WINS AWARD 
The American -Alumni Council has presented an award of merit to Frank Wallace for his article, "Thoughts of a New Director," which appeared in the April, 1947, issue of the ALU.M.VUS. 
The awards of merit were pre­sented by the Council for features appearing in alumni magazines in 1946-47 and were part of the Coun­cil's magazine awards program for the year. Almost 50 magazines were en­tered in the competition. 

read: "Lt. Dolan, with complete disregard for his own safety, attempted to cut off their retreat and was instantly killed by sniper fire. His gallantr)- and aggressiveness in the face of great odds and extreme hazards re­flect highest credit on himself and the armed forces of the United States." 
John, before entering the Army, resided in Kansas Cit>-, Mo. He was in the 79th Division and was executive officer of his company. He was the nephew of Rev. Pat­rick H. Dolan, c.s.c, '15, and the brother of Robert M., '40, and William P., ex. '31. 
Work on ftegi/ding of Golden Dome Started 
The Golden Dome, which has been any­thing but golden for the past several years, will once again gleam in splendor. Work on regilding the Dome was started on June 8 and will be completed about the end of September. 
Last gilded in 1934, the Dome was scheduled to have been recoated with gold leaf six or seven years ago, but the govern­ment denied the use of the leaf, a critical war material. Shortly after the Dome was gilded 14 years ago, phosphate blown from a railroad car on a siding ate away some of the gold leaf before the damage was noticed. 
Rev. John J. Redington, c.s.c. Univer­sity purchasing agent, announced that the contract for the new coating of gold leaf had been let to R. J. Wolf, South Bend decorators. 
The 19-foot statue of the Blessed Virgin is 206 feet above the ground and 125 feet above the roof of the building. The Dome has an arc of 31 feet and is 139 feet around at its largest circumference. The regilding will require 325 rolls of gold leaf, each of which is 67 feet long and from three-eighths to three and one-quarter inches wide. 
Courtesy Lucky Strike 
Lucky Strike cigarettes, both for the 1923 Luncheon, Saturday noon, June 5, and for the Alumni Banquet Saturday night were distributed by the American Tobacco Co. as part of its merchandising program. 
24-ireor-Of<f Veferon 

Delivers Valedictory 

A 24-year-old veteran of World War II who was wounded 21 times by shell frag­ments at the Battle of Cassino, Italy, in 1944, climaxed a remarkable display of courage on June 5 when he delivered the valedictory address at the University's Class Day Exercises. 
John D. Harrington, son of Mr. and Mis. James A, Harrington, 623 Bay Ridge Ave­nue, Brooklyn, N. Y., was selected for the honor because his scholastic average of 94.9% was the highest among the 900 graduating seniors. 
He started his college career at Brooklyn College in September, 1941, and was in­ducted into the Army in February, 1943. After brief service with the Eighth Infantry Division, Harrington shipped overseas with the 34th Division as a machine-gunner with the 168th Infantry Regiment. In the bitter fighting before Cassino in February, 1944, he was critically wounded by a shell which burst only a few feet away. His story since then is one of sheer courage. 
Hospitalized for months in Army hos­pitals in Italy and this country, he was re­turned to civilian life early in 1945 with a sixty percent disability. He was employed by the Home Life Insurance Company in New York for a few months after his dis­charge and then was accepted at Notie Dame in November, 1945, tmder the Vet­erans Rehabilitation Act. 

Opportunities in Sales 
The Mack, Miller Candle Company, Syracuse 1, N. Y., candle manufacturer, is seeking sales representatives in nine large metropolitan areas: Philadelphia, Cincin­nati, Toledo, Indianapolis, St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Milwaukee and San Fran­cisco. Candidates should be between 32 and 42 years old, should have a minimum of two years' selling experience and should reside in or near one of the cities where openings exist. For further information, address: 
C. F. Carr, president of the company. 
NEW LEGAL DIRECTORY 
A new Directory of Notre Dame 

men in the legal profession has just 
been issued by the Alumni Associa­
tion in cooperation with the College 
of Law and the Office of the Execu­
tive Assistant to the President. 
It is evident from early returns 

that there arc many changes to be 
made in the listings of our lawyers. 
A supplement will be issued when 
corrections indicate its need. Aiijr 
changes should be reported promptly 
to the Alumni Office. 
» »

ALUMNI CLUBS 
Akron 
The first club scholarship to Notre Dame went to Richard S. No\*itsky, a 17-year-old graduate of St. Mary's High School. The committee in charge of au-arding the scholarship was made up of Judge Bernard Roetzel, Noel Michel, and Dr. James Glennen, of the University- of Akron. 
Baltimore 
On May 18, the club entertained 75 members and guests, at a **Good Old Brewery Part>**' held ath one of the local breweries. GIL PREXDER­GAST was chairman of the afTair. He was assisted by FRANK HOCKREITER and FRED TRIXKLE. 
Among the new members \velcomed at tlie part>' were CHARLES BLISS, '32, FRED HALL, '41, and ED KIRCH^LAN, '42. 
A Club Directory has been compiled by FRANK HOCHREirER and sent to all members. 
Now that the site of the Naw game is definitely Baltimore, DR. ROY SCHOLZ., our new president, has already started action so that the club will be ready to play the part of official host. 
JIM MURIUY 

Des Moines 
Our annual Drake Relays dinner which is held-each >-ear in honor of the Notre Dame track team was a big success again this year. Festivities got under way at 6 P.M., April 24, at the Hotel Savery. We were honored this year bv the presence of FATHER FRANCIS P. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., dean of the College of .Arts and Letters, who gave a wry entertaining and at the same time informa­ti\'e talk. 
JOE WHELAN served as toastmaster and also introduced COACH DOC HANDY, whom ^vc all enjoy seeing and listening to each year. Coach Handy also introduced each member of the track team. Much credit is due to BOB KURTZ, who headed the committee in charge of this dinner. After this dinner Father Ca\-anaugh stayed and \-isited informally with us in a round table dis­cussion on Communism and its effects on the world today. 
At a prc\-ious business meeting we appointed a budget committee headed by PHIL CARROLL. The purpose of the committee is to determine the cost of our special events for the entire year and to collect from each member in advance. Phil and his com­mittee of JIM SHAW and FRED NESBIT did a remarkable job and as a result the Club has no finandal worries for the remainder of this year. 
Erie, Pa. 
New officers were formally installed at the UND Night dinner. They are: JOSEPH C. BARBER, president; ROBERT F. WESCHLER, vice president; JOHN E. WILSON, secretary; and MARTIN A. GLOEKLER," treasurer. 
Fort Wayne 
The Commencement exercises of June 6 in­cluded a number of Ft. Wa>-ne graduates. They are: J.AMES HOLTHOUS, ROBERT KEARNEY, JACK SOSENHEIMER, WILLIAM HERBER, ROBERT DALTON, and RICHARD A. HART­iLAN. *Tyke" Hartman completed his work for a degree at the end of the January semester and has been aa active member of the Club since that time. 
The newly elected Board of Directors of the Club met recently. At this session. Club President BERN­ARD KEARNS and the board members discussed plans for club activities during the coming year. 
RICH-ARD E. LENTIARD, '42, formerly of Misha­waka, is now a member of our club. Dick is asso­ciated with the local branch of the EUb Co. 
Mohawk Valley 
The club's regular meeting was held on May 20 in the home of A. CHARLES HITZELBERGER, JR. The members approved plans for an affair to be held early next fall at which FATHER ROBERT S\VEEN'EY and PROF. JOH.N SHEEHAN, head of the Economics Department, w*ho is a native of Utica, will be the guests of honor. The affair will be part of the club's Foundation Program. 
The next meeting of the club, on June 17, was held at the home of EDWARD J. SWEENEY, secretary. ED SWEENEY 
Monongahela Valley 
About 50 attended the UND Night celebration, at which Father Owen Kirby and E. J. McDan­icls spoke. Air. McDaniels discnissed the need of good example, stressing the example of the Notre Dame man. 
du b officers were elected at the meeting. They are: JIM DEVLIN, president; VINCE SOISSON, vice president; GEORGE ALARTIXET, secrelan*, and VINCE CAPANO, treasurer. 
GEORGE C. MARTINET 

New Jersey 
More than 300 attended the reception tendered FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH in honor of the 25th anniversary of his graduation. Sponsored by the 
N. D. club, it was held on May 4 in the X^ew-ark, 
N. J., Athletic Club. 
Father Ca\-anaugh outlined a formula for leader­ship "which cannot be Communistic and cannot be atheistic" He said, "Univ-ersitles are expected to turn out moral young men who are expected to become moral leaders in their communities. The formula for leadership can be found in documents of the founding fathers of this country, and the formula is acceptable to Jews, Protestants and Cath­olics alike, but not to atheists and Communists.** 
Father Cavanaugh also spoke over WNJR, Newark, earlier in the day. ^ 
JACK LAVALLE also spoke at the reception. JOSEPH M. BYRNE, JR., was honorary cha-mian of the reception committee and EDWARD J. DUG­GAN was chairman of general arrangements. AR­THUR J. LEA MOND w^ toastmaster. 
BILL CARTER 

MEMBERS OF THE CLEVELAND CLUB AT THE UJIJ>. WGSa OBSEBVANCE 
New York 
Two scholarships to the University, valued ai $1,000 each, instead of the usual one, will be awarded this j-ear by the club to Catholic high school graduates in the New York area. 
In announcing the increase of the scholarships lo two, ROBERT HAMILTON, chairman of the Trust Fund committee, stated that the great need for qualified leadership today and the difficulty of selecting just one candidate from many worthy entries had led the board to its decision. 
Northern California 
At the club's election of ofiicen, BILL YORE »-as named president; JIM DELANEY, \-ice presi­dent; and TOM FITZGERALD, secretary-treasurer. 
Ohio Valley 
At a meeting on May 22, the following were elected to ofEce: WILLIAM J. YAEGER, '42, president; SYLVESTER J. DOUGHERTY, '29, vice president; JOHN W. GREENE, '47, secretary; and WILLIAM DUSCH, "34, treasurer. 
J. W. GREENE 

Reading, Pa. 
The organization of the club was effected on May 3 in the Abraham Lincoln Hotel, thanks to the initiative of JOE FARRELL of HarrUburg. CYRIL JONES was named temporary president and WIL­LIAM TOBIN temporary secretarj*. Ten aiamni attended the meeting, at which plans for future meetings were made. 
San Diego 
Officers recenUy elected are: W. ALBERT STEW­ART, Jr., president; Lt. Gen. FRANCIS P. MUL­CAHY, vice president; FRED. J. LOWER, treas­urer; and WINFIELD S. D.\Y, secrctar>-. 
Tri-State 
The club met at the Haubstadt on May 24 at which a lunch was provided. Plans were laid for the annual golf tournament, which was run ofT at Princeton on June 24. 
The club's chaplain, FATHER JAMES REED, O.S.B., celebrated the 25th anniversary of his ordination. STEVE ESNER 
Triple Cities 
The club held a supper party in the Colonel Brackney Inn, Brackney, Pa., on May 26. Wives and daughters of members and the parents of stu­dents attended the party as guests of the club. Arrangements were in charge of Mrs. FRANTC KANE, and she was assisted by Afrs. FRANK CONOLE, Mrs. WALTER DEMER, Mrs. JOHN DONNELLY, Mrs. DENNIS FOLEY, Mrs. FRANK HAINES, Mrs. THOMAS GIORDANO, Mrs. ED­WARD O'BRIEN, and Miss Catherine Foley. 
St. Louis 
The club awarded its first scholarship to William 
B. Riley, of St. Louis, who will start attending Notre Dame nc-tt September. The tuition scholar­ship is for four j-ears. ROL.AND N. DAMES is chairman of the Scholarship Committee. 
St. Joseph Valley 
The annual Varsity-Old Timers game on May 15 was again sponsored by the club this j-ear. The funds derived from this game are now used to further the well-established scholarship plan con­ducted by the club among both public and Catholic high schools in St. Joseph County. 
Utilizing funds from the game, the dub this year gave two scholarships to Notre Dame instead of the one scholarship formerly given. The first award, covering tuition and general fees for a day student for four years, went to Gene Pendl, fifth ranking student in a class of 348 in Central High 
23. 

School, South Bend. Gene win lecdve $480 a jar , or a totia of $1,920. 
The second scholanhip, valued at |220 annuaOr for a total of V80, alio went to a graduate ol Central Hi ^ School, William £ . Balok, fifteenth ranking stutfent in the dais. 
The club's annual golf paitr was held at the South Bend Counnr. Chb on June 22. ED KRAUSE was the general chairman and, as usual, the prizes were abundant. 
Toledo 
The annual summer dance, sponsored by N. D. students from TcJedo, was held in the Grand Ball­room of the Commodore Perry Hotel, June ]9. The dance, which was a semi-formal afTalr, was supported by the alumni dub. 
Washington 
At the first meeting of the newly elected Board of Got-emors on April 12, WILLIAM CKARL, '31. was elected chairman, and REV. BERNARD E. RANSING, '31, was elected rhaplain. A kUcr expressing the Club's appreciation was sent to BOB CAVANAUGH, '36, as retiring Chairman. 
President TOM McKEVITT opened the first dub 
Leo Mullin laying a wieath at the meeting on May 20 by outlining the club program 
tomb of the Unknown Soldier in for the year. The highlights of the program in-duded the following; Laying of wreath at the Tomb 
Washington, D. C. He represented the 
of the Unkno%ni Soldier, May 23; Aimual Gnb 
Washington Club this year at the  at Holy College 25-27; 
Retreat Cross June the ceremonies. September meeting with all prospective freshmen in-' 
Van Wallace Shows Film of Lourdes Trip 
By ED HOMEY 
One of the most successful activities of the Detroit Club in some time . was the David Van Wallace testimonial dinner for members and their wives on June 10 at the Harmonie Club. 
JOHN BRENNAN, Van's classmate, was chairman. FATHER JOHN MURPHY, C.S.C., vice-president, and JIM ARMSTROI^, Alumni Associa­tion secretary, spoke. Father Murphy spoke on the achievements of the University in the past and its plans for the future. 
John Brennan had arranged everything, even having letters and tele­grams sent by the four living members spread around the country, who, with himself and Van, composed the organization of the "Seven Deadly Sins" . in 1923. 
But the feature of the evening was 1400 feet of the most beautiful film the majority of us had ever seen. Since 1938 the club had been trying to send Van to Lourdes. In 1939 he even got as far as New York oiJy to be turned back when war was declared. But last year the plans materialized. .And after a special drive was successful in providing a new station wagon, the club saw its dreams come true when Van started last summer. 
Mrs. Wallace, Van's mother, took pictures all along the Joibney. They start with the presentation of the station wagon, pass on through the Buffalo and .Albany clubs meeting Van on the drive to New York City, and end with Lourdes itself. Van's commentar> along with the film is one of the best parts of the show. 
.\ pleasant story on the pictures is this: The camera was lent and the film procured by a very well-known Jewish friend in Detroit; the pictures will be edited in the near future at the expense of a Masonic group at their request after seeing them; and the trip was made possible by Catholic groups. Who can honestly say that America doesn't experience some wondrous and beautiful things? 
.Also announced at the banquet were the all but last minute plans for the club's big summer activity. Sports Day. More than simply a golf tournament this year, there will be Softball, horseshoes and other sports at Boimy Brtx>k Golf Club on July 15. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

\-itcd; Annual Communion Breakfast in December; 
Rockne Memorial Communion Breakfast in I\Iarrh, 
1949; Universal Notre Dame Xight at a date to be 
announced in the future. 
It was decided to present the officers of the Cam­

pus Club with a supply of stationery* for use during 
the school term. 
The film "The University of Xotre Dame*' *.vas 

shown and was well received by the sixty Club 
members present. 
The Annual Field Mass was said on May 23 by 

Archbishop O'Boyle at the Tomb of tlie Unknown 
Soldier. This event was held under the auspices of 
the Fourth Degree of the Knights of Columbus and 
was attended by 76 Catholic or^nizations. Leo 
Alullin, representing our club, laid a wreath at the 
tomb. 
The annual Retreat was held at Holy Cross 

College from June 25 to 27. Father LAWRENCE 
P. SULLIVAN, C.S.C., '30, was the retreat master. 
P. J. CONWAY was cliairman of the Retreat Com­mittee and was assisted bv CLINT W.ATSON, JOE FITZMAURICE, and J. WALTER GREER. 
Notes on McmbcTS 

Dr. WILLIAM J. RANIZZL 'AG, having com­pleted his work at Georgetown Medical 3cl:ool, leaves us for New York. 
On May 23, 1948, the engagement of SalK- Ann Mclain to Dr. WALTER J. BRENN.\N, JR., '41, now a resident ph>-sician in Neuropsychiatr>' 3i Waller Reed Hospital here, was announced. 
We learned with sorrow of the death in May ol JOSEPH A. FAHY, '03, at Mount Alio Hospital here. Mr, Fahy was buried in Arlington Cemetery. 
New members reporting in at the May 20 meeting were R. H. EGAN, L. J. REILLY, Lt., USN, and JOHN E. WOOD. THONLAS J. FLYN.N 
Western Washington 
On UND Night, 36 members met in Seattle at a dinner meeting,. • Under the new dub Constitu­tion, JOHN ENGLISH, '33, was elected president; JOHN F. BOESPLUG, '33, \-Jcc president; JERRY KANE, '38, secretary-; and P.ATRICK GOGGLN, JR., '30, treasurer. The new directon arc: ROBERT 
I. PIGOTT, P. T. HOSTERAfAN, EMMETT G. LENIHAN, CHARLES F. OSBORN and JOHN ENGLISH, all of Seattle; LESTER FURLONG, Tacoma; and MORRIS E. ST.ARRETT, Port Town-
William L. Wilson, left, president o! the Blue Water District Club, presents the dub's "Achxeyement Award" to Captain Jerry Mugan oi the St Stephen High School ham­ketboU team of Port Huron, Mich., on April 11. The award was the first of the club's proposed annual presentation to the St Stephen High athletic teom show­ing the best record for the season. 
Father John Cavanaugh, CS.C, president, was honored by the New York Club at its annual President's Night on May 5. From left to right are Jack Hoyt, club president-Harry G- Hogan, Frank C. Walker, Bishop John F. OUara, CS.C, and Father Cavanaugh. 
send. Starrett was named chairman. 
President John English has announced plans for a giant fund-raising acti\-ity to be held this summer and fall. The grand prize will be an ''all-expense trip for two to Notre Dame," including tickets to the Notre Dame-Washington football game Nov. 27 LEO J. CUMMINGS; '33, has been named chair­man of the Committee in charge. 
Profit from the activity will go towards entertain­ing the Notre Dame squad in 1949 when they play the University of Washington in Seattle. 
Father SWEENEY, Assistant to the President, \W11 be guest of honor at a dinner dance to be held at the Ranicr Golf Club, Seattle, on July 6 
In conjunction with the diocesan retreats at St Martin's, the club held its first retreat under the chairmanship of BILL TIERNEY in July, 1947. 
On Nov. 5, 1947, a dinner mccu'ng was held m Seattle w^th 34 present. Plans were laid for the acrtivitics for the rest o^ the year. At this meeting Emmett Lenihan and John English, foundation dty chairman for Seatlc, gave a detailed discussion of the Foundation Program. 
The dub's annual Communion-breakfast was held at St. Patrick's Church in Tacoma on Dec 7. This was the first N. D. club meeting ever held in Tacoma. JERRY KANE 
West Virginia 
The annual election of officers was held in Ma>, with BILL KENNEY being named president; BOB SCHUMACHER, vice president; and GEORGE THOMPSON, secretar>--trcasurer. 
JOHN WELCH has been transferred to Morgan-town, W. Va., haWng been appointed manager of the C. & P. Telephone Co. office thert:. 
Besides m>-self, one other new member, GLENN RICHARDSON, has been placed on the dub roll GEORGE THOMPSON 
Wilkes-Barre 
The club is planning a summer outing with the Scranton Club to be held late in July or in August 
At a meeting held in the U. S. Naval Training Center in Wilkes-Barre, FATHER SCANDLON, vice president of Kings College, was the principal speaker. 
The club held a dinner for DR. MAURICE REGAN, who was to be married on June 12. A regular club meeting followed the diniKr. 
EDWARD J. ROWAN 

e alumni 
Engogemenfs 

Miss Betty Ackil and JOSEPH F. O'BRIEN, '49. Miss Julian Ann Lupresto and KENNETH R. KEMPF, '43. Miss Jeanne Anne Norton and DR. LEO W. ROOHAN, JR., ex. '44. Miss Esther Irene Schumacher and DONALD A. FOSKETT, '40. Miss Virginia Czarnecki and FRANK ROSA­NOVA, '49. Miss Mary Cieslewicz and BERNARD G. BEIER, '48. Miss Irene Ganser and EDWARD F. McNULTY, '49. ^fiss Marion Sussanne Belyung and Prof. JOSEPH W. RATIGAN, '36. . ^ Miss Doris Elaine Badman and WALTER S. '^ BIVENOUR, Jr., '47. Miss Jeanne Spitler and LOUIS C. COLLERAN, '47. Miss Sally Ann McLain and Capt. (Dr.) WALTER 
J. BRENNAN, Jr., '41. 
Miss Florence Mickley and EDWARD P. CAP­ARO, '47. 
Miss M. Felicia Schroeder and WILLIAM P. DIOGUARDI, '47. 
Miss Barbara Jean Murphy and FRANKLIN H. STUART, II, '43. 
Miss Jacqueline Frances Magill and JOHN C. PAINTER, Jr., '49. 
Marnaqes 
Miss Marion Sussane Belyung and JOSEPH W. RATIGAN. '36, Trenton, N. J., June 19. 

Miss Catherine Claire Fink, sister of A. J., ex. '28, and FRANCIS A. (BILL) FINK, '30, and { # E. J. DANIEL, '37, Fort Wayne, Ind., June 23. 
Aliss Virginia Marion Matthews and CHARLES 
W. DUKE, '38, South Bend, May 29. 
Miss Anne Jo Mullen and DON F. HICKEY, '38, Los Angeles, June 19. 
ifiss Elizabeth Chappelle and DR. JOHN N. FOGEL, '38, San Juan, Calif., April 10. 
Miss Mary Jane Brady and JULIAN R. PLEAS­ANTS, '39, Notre Dame, June 23. 
Miss Ellen .Mary Twomey and J.ACK J. WILKIN­SON, '40, Biddcford, Maine. 
Miss Marge Morrison and FRANK J. McDO-NOUGH,' '41, Oak Park, IlL, Dec. 27, 1947. 
Miss Helen Louise Rayman and JAMES G. NEW­LAND, '41, Indianapolis, June 23. 
Miss Natalie Joy Kamm and LOUIS A. WOLF, '41, May 22. 
Miss Dortithy June Humphrey and ROBERT L. MILLER, '42, Bloomington, Ind., June 27. 
Miss Verna Hackstock and ALBERT J. MUENCH, '42, Menasha, Wis., Sept. 7, 1946. 

' j > Miss Angela Coughlin and PAUL T. LEONARD, '43, Log Chapel, June 19. 
Miss Gunrar Bcrgishagen and JOHN A. LYNCH, 
'44, Detroit, June 25. 
Miss Rosemary Davidson and CHARLES C. HANEY, '44, South Bend, June 5. 
Miss Patricia Ann Powers and E.ARL F. GLENN, Jr., '45, Tucson, .^riz., June 5. 
Miss Jane Anne O'Brien and DR. JAMES CAS­SIDY, '46, Oak Park. III., May 1. 
Miss Lois Williams and EDWIN J. DONAHUE, '46, Niles, Mich., June 26. 
Miss Margaret Marj- Woodhouse and RAYMOND 
H. MURRAY, Jr., '46, Grand Rapids, Mich., June 6. 
Miss .^vis Ann Blake and ROBERT F. MARTIN, '46, Washington, D . C , April 10. 
Miss Elizabeth Ann Bosler and EUGENE F. KANE, '47, son of Eugene A. Kane, '14, Sacred Heart Church, May 1. 
Miss Rita Livingstone, sister of Bob Livingstone, '48, and FRED ROVAI, '47, Hammond, Ind., April 3. 
Miss Eulalia Marie O'Toole and JOHN L. ZILLY, '47, Niles, Mich., May 22. 
Miss Eldonna June Poole and FRANK P. MAY, '47, South Bend, May 29. 
Miss Gloria Cook and C. J.AMES PARIS, "47, Sacred Heart Church, May 30. 
ACss Betty Kyscr and ROBERT J. MEAGHER. '47, South Bend, June 5. 
Miss Elsie G. Jaskiewicz and CHARLES M. WAKE, '48, South Bend, June 7. 
Miss Teresa Ann Murphy and D.ANIEL P, BARLOW, '48, Logansport, Ind., June 8. 
Miss Mary Elizabeth Ziener and ROBERT B. REYNOLDS, '48, Chicago, June 12. 
Miss Maryanna Woodward and RAYMOND S. RISTOW, '48, South Bend, May 6. 
Miss Jean Coppes Hansen and RUSSELL G. ASHB.AUGH, JR., '48, Elkhart, Ind., June 12. 
Miss Rita Flory and ERNEST A. CASKEY, '48, South Bend, June 5. 
Miss Helene Crockett, daughter of Harrison Crockett, '22, and MYLES H. QUAIL, '49, South Bend, June 5. 
Miss Frances Kierein and CARLOS CORONA, '49, son of Prof. Jose C. Corona. South Bend, June 
Miss Betty Loube Martin and NORBERT D. LaVALLY, '49, Sacred Heart Church, June 4. 
Miss Norma Lu Booth and EDWARD J. MEE­HAN, Jr., son of Edward J. Meehan, '20, South Bend, June 5. 
Miss Irene Anne Gember and .\NTHOPJV J. PANZICA, '49, South Bend, June 5. 
Miss Mar>- Blanche lannarcUi and ROBERT L. POEHLMAN, '50, South Bend, June 5. 

Miss Jacquelyn .Ann Hilbert and W. LANCASTER SMITH, JR., '50, South Bend, June 5. 
Miss Mary Beverly Weinkauf and FRANK WALERKO, '47, in Mishakaka, Ind., June 12. 

Miss Frances Jambrick and ANTHONY M. AANSTOOS, '48, Sacred Heart Church, June 12. 
Miss Dorothy Schultz and JOHN R. FORDE, '51, Sacred Heart Church, June 12. 
Miss Joan Hirschler and JOHN A. RETTZ, '50, South Bend, June 12. 
.&I!ss Jeanne Uphaus and WILLIAM F. ROE­MER, JR., '50, son of Prof. William F. Rooner, Sacred Heart Church, Jtue 12. 
Miss Jeanne Ahlgren and ROBERT E. LIVINGS­TONE, '48, Hammond, Ind., June 12. 
Miss Carol Kline, daughter of Jake Kline, '21, and JOHN J. MARTIN, '44, Sacred Heart Churdi, June 10. 
Miss Mary Margaret Naughton and DR. NICHO­LAS S. GULYASSY, '42, Chicago, June 8. 
Miss Lucille Mary Litty and RAYMOND C. ZALLER, '40, Culver City, Calif., June 12. 
^rlss Mary Louis O'Heam and DR. HENRY G. ARMTTAGE, '40, Lawrence, Mass., June 2. 
Miss Alary Louise McQueeney and DR. MICHAEL R. SCULLY, '38, Bridgeport, Conn.. -Mky 15. 
Miss Marian Jean Rice and ROBERT G. ROSE, '47, South Bend, June 11. 
Miss Barbara Ryan and JOHN B. CMALLEY, JR., *48, Denver, Colo., June 19. 
Miss Kay Carmody and HERBERT S. MELTON, '43, Des Moines, la., June 12. 
Miss JilliSchiffer and RICHARD M. TERRY, '46, East St. Lotus, HI., June 3. 
Born to 
Mr. and Mrs. SAMUEL E. RICHARDS, '30. = son, Donald Joseph Kennedy, Feb. 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOAWS J. MAGEE. '32. a daughter. EUea, April 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN L. GLANZNER, "SS. a son. Stephen John. April 23. 
Mr. and Mrj. HERMAN W. GREEN, '36, a son, Stephen Ross, April 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH DRUECKER, '37, a son, Joseph Thomas, April 13. 
Mr. and Mn. JOSEPH T. DORGAN. '37, a daughter, Mary, May 2. 
Mr. and Mn. STANLEY R. SHEERAN, '39, a daughter, Kathleen, Feb. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN T. DOYLE. '39. a ^on. Timothy Sean. April 27. 
itr. and Mrs. WILLIAM F. KERWIN. Jr., '40. a son. George Francis. May 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE R. MEEKER. '40. a son. George Robert. Jr., May 6. 
Afr. and Mrs. F. RICHARD WTTTE, '30, a daughter, Marda Ellen, May 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN A. FISHER, '41. a son. John Aloysius. April 24. 
Mr. and MRS. JOHN C. BERMINGHAM, '42i a daughter. Ana Kathleen, May 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. ALBERT J. MUENCH, '42, a son. Joseph Frank. Nov. 12, 1947.­
Mr. and Mh. FREDERICK H. FAULMATOT, Jr.. '42. a SOD. John Donobue. April 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES J. BYRNE, '43. a son. Frauds Aloysius. April 3. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Mr. and Mrs. J. L. H.\RRIGAN, '43, a son, John Paul, May 11. 
Mr. and Mn. GEORGE J. KELLY, '43, a daughter, Lucy Ann, MartJi, 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. RAYMOND A. LA FORGE, '43, a son. May 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD J. LIXDROTH, '43, a son, Richard James, Feb. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS R. BE.AUDJ.VE, '44, a son. Frauds Richard, Jr., Dec 18, 1947. 
Mr. and Mrs. J.AMES P. D.AN.AHER, '44, a son, James Philip, Jr., April 29. 
Mr. and its . JOHN J. -AGNO.VE, '47. a daugh­ter, Mary Lou, May 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK CACCIAP.AGLIA, '47, a son, Frank Anthony, March 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD C. CARLSON, '47, a son. Council Edward, May 9. 
Oeofhs 
CHARLES J. STUBBS, '88, prominent Galveston, 

Texas, Catholic lawman and attorney, died in St. 
Mar>-'s Infirmary', Galveston, on May IB after a 
lengthy illness. 
The Bl-year-old attorney, who before his death \%-as 

one of the oldest living Notre Dame degree holders, 
be^ n the practice of law in Galveston in 1889. 
He had ser\-cd as diocesan attorney for 30 years. 
Mr. Stubbs represented Sacred Heart Academy, Gal­
veston, in obtaining a share of the Magcx'ncy 
estate of Memphis, Tenn. During eight years of 
litigation the case went to the Tennessee supreme 
court twice. 
In recognition of his outstanding services to the Church, Pope Pius XI, awarded him knighthood in the Order of St. Gregory, which was formally con­ferred on him by the Most Rev. C. E. B>Tne, Bishop of Galveston, in 1933. 
Bishop Byrne offered Pontifical Requiem Mass in St. Mary*s Cathedral on May 20 and preached an impressi\-e sermon. Sur\-iv-ing Mr. Stubbs are his wife, two sons, a daughter, and a sister. 
PETER P. PRUDHOMME, '88, died in Xatchi­tocfacs Hospital, Bermuda, La., on May 28 after a short illness. 
Funeral Mass for the prominent merchant and planter was celebrated in the Immaculate Conception Church, Bermuda. Paul A. O'Donnell, a semin­arian and grandson of the deceased, assisted at the Mass. 
Mr. Pnidhomme leaves three sons, three daugh­ters, and 12 grandchildren. 
ARMSTEAD ^L PRICHARD, who attended Notre Dame for several years in the 1890's, died at his home in Staunton, Va., in June. 
A widely-known Charleston, AV. Va., lawyer, he was president of the Charleston National Bank for many years retiring in 1921. He was graduated from the West Virginia University Law School in 
1897. J 
Suniving Mr. Hrichard are his widow, a son, two daughters, and one sister. 
PHIDELL THONL\S OSBORN, *33, died at the home of his parents, 23 Draper St., Wolcott, N. Y., on May 7 after a short illness. 
EUGENE DILLON, who attended Notre Dame in 1882-83,'died on May 14 in Chenoa, 111., after an operation. Mr. Dillon, who **-as elected the first monitor of the St. Cedlia Philomathean Asso­ciation in 1883, was a nephew of Rev. Patrick Dillon, C.S.C., a former president of Notre Dame and a former Holy Cross provincial. 
The "Alumnus" has just learned of the death of EDWIN G. LISIAKOWSKI, '33, who died of a heart attack June 21, 1946. 
SISTER MARY ANGELA, O.S.U., died on May 7 at Ursuline Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
WILLIAM E. PERCE, »06, of Elgin, HI., died in Hines Hospital, Chicago, on April 23, after a long illnsess. 
Afr. Perce earned monograms at Notre Dame as a pitcher and later played professional baseball. He was dty attorney of Elgin for several )-ears and also scr\'ed as public administrator of Kane County, HI., for 15 years. 
A \-eteran of World War I, he was commisdoned a second lieutenant in 1917. He took part in the St. Mihiel and Troyon offenses and, as a first lieu> tenant, was commander of H Co. of the 104th In­fantry in the Meuse-Argonne battle. 
Mr. Perce was a member of the American Legion and Veterans of Foreign Wars. Surviving him is his wife. 
CHARLES E. HANEY. e.x. '06, died in Memorial Hospital, South Bend, Alay 2, at the age of 62, after a three-week illness. 
Funeral Alass was sung in St. Matthew's Church, South Bend, on May 6 and burial was in Cedar Grove Cemetery. Surviving are his wife, four sons, two daughters, and a sister. 
SIM T. MEE, '15, died at his home in Sterling, III., on June 5 after an extended illness. 
Admitted to the bar in 1915, he entered into partnership with his brother, Edward W. Mee, *14. He \%'as appointed assistant United States District Attorney in 1934 and served with distinction until his death. He scr\-ed overseas with the Army in World War I. 
The funeral Mass was celebrated at St. Mary's Church, Sterling, on June 4, and burial was in Cal\-ar>* Cemetery*. 
Surviving are his wife, two daughters, a brother, and a sbter. 
BROTHER GEORGE, C.S.C., '24, a member of the faculty of Holy Trinity High Cchool, Chicago, died in St. Mary's Hospital, Chicago, I^fay 4 after a six-month illness. 
He was born Ladislaus Biadaszkiewicz Nov. 8, 1895, in Chicago, and entered the Coi^regation of Holy Cross in 1913, making his final vows June 27, 1921. Except for one year at Central Catholic High School, Port Wayne, Ind., he spent all of his teaching career of nearly 3D years at Holy Trinity School. 
Members of the faculty and the student body of Holy Trinity School attended the Funeral Mass "on May 7 in Holy Trinity Church. Burial was in the Community Cemeterj' at Notre Dame. 
PHILIP E. DOELL, '27, died at his home in Cleveland, O., on May 13 after an illness of several months. He ^i-as sales manager of the East Central District of the chemical department of General Electric Co. 
Phil joined the General Electric Co. in 1929 and was named district sales manager in 1945. In an editorial in the May 21 issue, the G. E. ^'Chemical Department News" said: 
"Courage is a fine thing. It is one of those abstracts like honest^', charity, lo^-e, Christianity, that everybody talks about, and knows so little about. . . . You have to see it and recognize it, as we did last week, when Phil Doell died. It would be foolhardy to attempt to describe in words what Phil so aptly described in deeds—in the ideals he held fast to in his Vdc, in his long illness, in his death. . . . The abstracts are strange things. They live long after the man who exemplified them dies." 
EUGENE V. O'BRIEN, '27, of Elgin, HI., dit^d in St. Joseph's Hospital in May after an illness of eight >-ears. 
Gene was bom in Chicago on Afay 26, 1906, and prior to moving to Elgin was a real estate broker in Chicago. 
He is survived by his wife, a son, his parents, a brother, and two sisters. 
Foneral services for WALTER E. STANTON, '30, brother of John, '24, and David, '26, were held in St. Joseph's Churdi, Gary, Ind., on May 12. 
Walt, who was general counsel for the Chicago Regional Federal Housing Office, was active in Indiana Democratic circles. He became a state legislator at the age of 22, served as deputy attorney general, special counsel for the Public Works Ad­ministration, and chief counsel for the Indiana Housing Board. 
Surviving are his widow, a son, and a daughter. 
CLARE C. LESER, '47, of Joliet, HI., died on June 5 in (he crash of a "Flj-ing Wing" near Muroc Air Base, Calif. He was a member of the five-man crew, all of whom were killed, and was one of the two civilians aboard. He was attached to the Flight Test Division at Wright Field, Ohio. 
The giant eight-jet Northrop bomber, called the most powerfal plane yet built, met disaster only a few minutes after it had taken off on a routine checking flight. Air Force officials said. It crashed near a highway after exploding at an altitude of several hundred feet. Flames swept the plane and almost destro>-ed it after the crash. 
The Flj-ing Wing, one of two such jet planes built for the Army, is designed for top speecU "in the 500 mile an hour class," Northrop officials said. They added that the plane had already completed many hours of rigorous test flights. 
VERLY E. SMITH, who was trainer of football teams at Notre Dame in the da>s of Knute Rockne and the Four Horsemen, died of a heart attack in his home in Culver, Ind., on Alay 3, at the age of 61. 
At one time a trainer for Jack Dempsey, he was affiliated with Culver Military Academy after leav­ii ^ Notre Dame, and in the later j-ears of his life dei'o^ much of his time to his health farm in Cul\-er. 
JOSEPH A. FAHY, '03, chief of the construcUon division of the Veterans Administration construction ser\ice, died in Mount Alto Hospital, Washington, 
D. C, in May. 
Mr. Fahy taught engineering at Columbia College, (now the University of Portland) Portland, Ore., and at Catholic University after being graduated from Notre Dame. During World War I he ser\*ed with the 518th Engineers. 
Mr. Fahy had been with the Veterans Adminis­tration since 1924. He began as superintendent of construction and later was made supcr\ising super­intendent of construction, both of which were field jobs, before he was appointed cJiicf of the con­struction ser\ice in 1934. 
He was a member of the American Society of Civil Engineers, the Army and Navy Club, the Afilitar^- Order of the World War, and The Notre Dame Club of Washington. 
The Requiem Mass was said at St. .Ann's CatboUc Church, with burial in Arlington Cemetery. Sur­rivjng are his lo'doiv, three sons, five brothers, and four sisters. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere s>-mpathics to DAVID J. CASEV, '33, on the death of his mother; to JAMES N. MOTSCHALL, '39, on the death of his father; to LESTER J. WISDA, '31, on the death of his mother; to REV. RAYMOND A. COUR, C.S.C., '37, on the death of his grandfather; to EDWARD B. CASEY, '23, on the death of his wife; to REV. CHRISTOPHER BROOKS, '12, on the death of his brother; to DENNIS O'CONNELL, 
•34,
 on the death of his father; to ROBERT SINON ] '47, on the death of his father; to WILLIAM GROTTY, '47, on the death of his father; to M. 

A.
 '98, and MAURICE N. NEVILLE, '32, on the death of their brother and father; to LEO J. SCAN­LON, '30, on the death of his father; to DENNIS 

J.
 O'CONNELL, Jr., '34, on the death of his father; fo CHARLES B. RUBLE, '23, on the death of his father; to JOSEPH KOCKMAN, '33, on the death of his wife; to TIM KING, '37, on the death of his mother; to DR. JAMES F. CLANCY, '21, on the death of his mother; to WILLIAM V. COR­BETT, JR., -27, on the death of his father WILLIAM J. CORBETT, LL.D., '48, a member of the Board of Lay Trustees. 


mj 
Volume 26, No. 4, July-Aug., 1948 

The Class of '23 had a grand 25th rc-speedy recoveries, Gus and Linus. 
^ \ union, thanks primarily to the committee in 
^ ' South Bend, the one in Chicago and the fine attendance we had from across the country. Eighty-nine men were registered, and there were probably a few present who didn't register officially. 
A few arrived Thursday and by Friday evening there were over eighty present for the party at the LaSalle Hotel. JOE NYIKOS, ED KREIMER, LOUI S BRUGGNER and DICK NASH handled the arrangements. Father John Cavanaugh was in attendance, and everyone seems to have enjoyed himself very much. JOE DONALDSON, BILL FUREY and a few others continued their celebration by join­ing the 1938 Class to give them a glimpse as to how they would look 15 years from now at their 25th. 
Saturday morning FATHER FRANK CAVANAUGH celebrated Mass in the Lyons Hall chapel for the members of the Class who have passed on. The attendance was excellent and commented on by 

tm FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH in his 
- Saturday evening address at the Alumni Banquet. 
Saturday noori the faculty members of the Class of '23 gave the Class a very nice luncheon in the Faculty dining room. Father Cavaanugh presided and your secre­tary thanked the committees appointed for their excellent work. A call was also issued for Tyrone Ginsburg, but to the best of our knowledge he wasn't in the house. Im­mediately after the luncheon pictures were taken on the Library steps, and all those who attended the Friday night dinner re­ceived one—the picture is excellent and those who missed Commencement should get one if they wish to see their classmates 
— I imagine Louis Bruggner can get one for you if you wish. His address is 127 West Washington Ave., South Bend. 
Saturday at the Alumni Banquet the class asked for the floor and your secretary 

< ^ made a few remarks to the effect that the greatest contribution the Class of '23 has made to the University is its most illustrious classmate. Father John Cavanaugh, now president. It was interesting the spontane­ous response that was made by all in at­tendance at the mention of his name. Nat­urally the Class of '23 led the way, but everyone in attendance at the Banquet was on his feet cheering almost as quickly as our own class. I am sure that most of us felt that this was the high spot of the re­union— this fine tribute to Father John. 
Every member of the class attending the reunion made some contribution to the Foundation, so it was also announced at the dinner that we were 100 per cent behind our classmate, the Reverend President, in his work to make Notre Dame even better than it has been and we as a class pledged not only the few dollars we may be able to 
1923 
25-year Reunion 
By 
Paul H. Castner, 1305 W. Arlington Ave., St. Paul, Minn. 
There are many interesting sidelights to report on the reunion, from the attendance of IVE SHARP, from Portland, Ore., AL FICKS from Phoenix, Ariz., to the fact that JUDGE ROGER KILEY of Chicago has a baby boy two months old. Big Ive looks fine and it was a treat to see him. Al Ficks looks like he was transplanted from Holly­wood. FRANCIS NEITZEL was there from Boise, Idaho, BILL HASKINS from Long Island and ED KELLY flew his own plane in from Emmetsburg, la. 
Perhaps the happiest man to attend the reunion ^vas FATHER JOHN E. DUFFY, whose exploits and escapes from the Japs during the last war arc nothing short of miraculous. Father Duffy is located at New London, Ohio, and those of us who had a chance to hear something about his experi­ences were fortunate, although his modesty plays down one of the most thrilling epics of the war. We are glad to have you back. Father. 
The reunion naturally was saddened by so many of the class who have passed on, and we were all grieved to hear that GUS DESCH was sick in Chicago, so he had to miss joining us. Also, LINUS GLOTZ­BACH who was confined to St. Joseph Hos­pital in St. Paul. I know the whole class send their prayers and wishes for your 

Many were back for a visit to the campus for the first time since graduation—and feel that there will be many more in at­tendance in the years right ahead. Le^s not wait for the 50th — athough plans are in the making to go in training' at CARL FISCHER'S ranch in South Dakota for at least a week before the 50th. Someone said (I think it was RED SHEA) that maybe a special committee ought to get working on a rest home for a reasonable period foUow­ing the 50th reunion. 
Fidlowiiig is the list of those bom '23 wbo legist­

ered somewhoe on the campus over the reomoo 
weekend: 
Bamhart, Henry; Bradbury, J. Stanley; Bnnn^an, Rev. J. M., C.S.C.; Breen, F. J. "Chubby"; Bfcn­nan, Martin H.; BrOey, John A.; Brown, Vinoent J.; Bruggner, Louis V.; Byrne, John G.; Casasanta, Joseph; Castner, Buil; Kev. John Cavansi^, C.S.C,; Rev. Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C; CbM^ John P.; Cochrane, John C; Cordray, R. E.; Culhane, DanieL 
Dacy, M. J.; de Smet, Loots A.; Dietrich, i»il; Disney, Francis X.; Donaldson, Joe; Doran, Fatrick C; Dotiot, Frank S.; Duffy, Rev. John E.; Ficks. Albert, Jr.; Fischer, Cari T.; Ktzgerald, William T.; Fitzsimmons, Frank T.; Flynn, J<^ R. 
Furey, W. J.; Calvin, Frank J.; Gorman, Anthony; Gould, Edwrard W.; Hartman, G. J.; Raskins, William H.; Hennderry, J. P.; Ifotabag, Brute J.; Jackson, Anthony; Kelly, Edward D.; KeDy. Edward J.; Kennedy, J. F.; Kennedy, Walter J.; Kiley, Roger; Kieimer, E. P. 
Lauerman, Henry J.; Leahy, Thomas F.; Lee, Thomas J.; Lqsan, F. Leslie; Lynch, Danid D.; Mang, Brother William, C.S.C.; llartin, Charia; Martin, James R.; iEOtr, Lyie E.;' Montague, John M.; Nash, R. J.; Neff, CyrO W.; Neitid, Ftamds H.; Niemiec, John W.; Norton, John C; Nyikai, Joseph W. 
CyCrady, George J.; Patterson, George A.; Pfeif­fer. Comic J.; Flouff, Thomas; Powers, Jeffrey V.; Rauh, Walter L; Raub, Ed. J.; Ranber, Walter F.; Rev. John RediUngton, C.S.C.; Rieder, Leo P.; Riley, J. T.; Rohrbach, John M.; Rohring, E. Merlin; Ryan, E. S.; Stybit, Midiael F. 
Sharp, Ivan C; Shea, W. E.; Stephan, John B.; Toth, Emery; Uhfaneyer, George A.; Valfcer, H. P.; Voss, William L., Jr.; Wack, George; Wallaoe, Frank; Ward, Clifford B.; Wilcox, James P.; Yaans, James F. 
give from time to time, but also our enthu-Paul Coatner. cloaa Mcratarir, •ztram* right, t^km with minbw of th« • ^ ^ siastlc assistance, our best wishes and our which arranged tha '23 dinnar at th« Bnaaaweod Boom of th* LoSdl* Hsl«L TW T W prayers for the successful carrying out of are, left to right Jo« Nyikoa. Dick Moih. Ibha Neatogiia, Ed Mnimmr. and Imna V.' 
Father Cavanaugh's plans. Bruggner. Ed Genid waa oBothar inambai ei Iha Cwwltlaa. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

My mail box has been filled daily since I returned from the big event with letters from classmates pronouncing our 20-year reunion a huge success, even better than anticipated. Approximately 175 classmates returned for one of the greatest reunions in the histor>- of Notre Dame. I am sure all of these men, as well as those who were unable to make it, arc already looking for­ward to our 25-year reunion in 1953. 
I want to thank WILL.ARD WAGNER for the outstanding job he did on local ar­rangements. Wag worked for weeks, as well as throughout the historical weekend, on the never-to-be-forgotten 1928 party at the Izaak Walton League and in keeping the fellows well supplied with refreshments in Morrissey Hall. He also provided the '28 class caps, suggested by JOHN Mc-MAHON, which were so well thought of by evcrj'one on the campus. They were one of the many innovations in Notre Dame class reunions introduced by our class. Drop Wag a line at 1437 McKinley Blvd., South Bend 17, Ind., letting him know how much 
we all appreciated his work and that we are looking for^vard to a repeat perform­ance in 1953. FLOYD SE.-\RER, JACOB GILBERT, RUSS KUEHL, ED QUINIV, HAROLD MILLER and GEORGE O'BRIEN, who assisted on the local ar­rangements committee, also have our vote of thanks. 
The excellent turnout can be attributed to the outstanding work of BERNIE GAR­BER and his publicitj- committee. The final mailing, the announcement of the pro­gram with the air\'iew of Notre Dame, pre­pared by Bcmie and mailed by LEO Mc-INTYRE, climaxed a series of eight letters and postals sent to all classmates since last August. JOHN McM.\HON worked closely "with Bcmie and did a great job on a letter and postcard which he got out on his own. D.WE GIBSON helped out by starting chain postal cards and GENE F.'VR­RELL and GEORGE SCHEUER obtained 
some good publicit>- for us. Letters were sent to a number of classmates by TURK MEINERT, HOWIE PH.ALIN, JOHN LARSEN, BOB KNOX, ED McCLAR-NON, GEORGE BEAMER, JOE MOR­RISSEY, BOB EVANS, LEO McINTTRE, TOM LAVELLE, JOE L.\NGTON, BOB HAMILTON, JACK LAVELLE, BILL JONES, FRANK DONOVAN, PHIL O'CONNOR, FRANTC CRE.ADON and JAMES C-ANIZARO. 
The large attendance at the Mass for the living '28 men said by FATHER MAT­THEW WALSH, CS.C, was most gratify­ing. JOHN IGOE was responsible for ar­ranging for this Mass. 
GEORGE A. SCHEUER provided a very successful luncheon for the '28 journalists Saturday noon. 
Everyone was impressed by the Mass for the deceased '28 men on Sunday morning. We were proud of the '28 Glee Club under 
1928 
20-year Reunion 
By 
Louis F. Buckley, 170 E. 191st St. Euclid 11, Ohio. 

turc of our reunion. FATHER J.^MES GALL.'VG.AN, CS.C, was celebrant and FRANK and JIM O'TOOLE, sons of our late classmate, FRANK O'TOOLE, served this Mass. Mrs. Frank O'Toole also at­tended the Mass. The collection taken up by DR. PAUL TOBIN and DICK PHE­LAN at this Mass was given to Father Gal­lagan for Masses for our deceased class­mates. My attention was called to the omission of the name of FRANK VAN­SYCKLE on the list of deceased class­mates distributed at the Mass. Please let 
me know if there were any other names missing. 
We are most indebted to BILL DOOLEY and the staff of the Alumni Office for as­sisting in getting out three of the mailings, including the class roster. Bill worked very closely with all of the committees, as well as with me, in arranging this affair. PAT CANNY took care of mimeographing the program and the material distributed at the Mass, for which we are most grateful. 
Many classmates participated in the soft­ball game planned by JOE LANGTON and golf arranged by BILL KEARNEY. 
I wish that space permitted a complete 
report of such items as the sessions in our 'get-together' room in the basement of Mor­rissey Hall, where we were entertained by JOE CASASANTA and the '28 Glee Club and well taken care of by WILLARD WAG­NER and his local committee . . . the long distance traveling honors given to DAVE GIBSON, San Gabriel, Calif., and P. M. VARRAVETO, Los Angeles, Calif. . . . the general agreement that BERNIE GAR­BER was the man who looks the least-changed in 20 years. . . . 
I am deeply indebted to the many class­mates responsible for the bonds presented to me in appreciation of my efforts as class sccretar>- during the past 20 years. With your continued help in supplying me with news for this column, we should look for­ward to a number of additional years of keeping together. 
Many thanks to the 175 men who at­tended the reunion. The excellent spirit shown by each of you made the reunion a success. .•Vnd special thanks to the wives at home %vho encouraged you to attend. Our deep regrets to those who were unable to assent, as we missed each and ever>' one of you and are looking for^vard to seeing you at our 25-year reunion. 
Following is a list of tliose from '28 who registered somewhere on the campus over the week­end ol reunion : 
Alexander, Cecil; Allan, James A.; Amiot, Neil H.; Armin, William F.; Bairley, Joseph J. Jr.; Beamer, George S.; Bird, Bernard J.; Boehning, James W.; Boyle, Andrew; Bradley, Dr. Daniel J.; Breig, Joseph A.; Brennan, Edmund J.; Breslin, Roger W.; Brown, F. Eugene "Red". 
Brown, William E.; Brust, Paul C; Buckley, Louis F.; Burke, Bolan; BjTne, Thomas F.; Canizaro, James T.; Canny, J. Pat; Carlin, John E.; Carney, Vince F.; Ca\anaugh, John; Collins, Thomas S.; Connors, Frank; Coury, George; Co\-ert, George F. 
Creadon, Fiank; Crongeyer, George W.; Cronin, William F.; Cross, James A.; Crowley, J. M. "BotB"; Cullen, Matthew J.; Daily, William L.; Daly, Dennis D.; Davis, A. F.; Da\-is, H. P.; Davis John; DeCIercq, Jerry; Donovan. Frank J.; Dowdall, Bill; Doyle, Jack; Dwyer, William K. 
A group of '28 alumni, wearing the caps  thot were the sensation ol the retinion. 
the direction of FATHER ANDY MUL-talk with Father John Murphy, CS.C, Tics-president in the Cafeteria. They ore, left REANY, CS.C. FRANK CREADON was to right. Bill Cronin, Jack Wageiter. George Crongeyer. Dr. Dan Bradley *( responsible for this new and admirable fea-ona Bob Hcnnilton. 
Volume 26, No. 4, July-Aug., 1948 

30-YEAR REUNION 
Father George Holderith, C.S.C, was in charge o{ local arrangements for the 30th omuversarr of the class of 1918. Unlorlunately, only a few of the doss were present, but those who attended appreciated meeting again after so many yean. The pictiire above was taken at the reunion celebration of '18 men and their friends of other years. Shown are I. W. Hurley, Judge Joe Sanford, Fred Steers. Father Charles Williams, L. A. Glascott, and Joseph T. Hiley. Others who were pres­ent at the reunion and not shown in the picture, were Father Holderith, George 
Harbert, John Lemmer and Louis Fritch. 
Farrell, Eugene G.; Farrell. Marciis E.; Finn, Tom ;Varraveto, P. M.; Viktory, Dr, John W.; Edmund J.; Fitzgerald, Rev. ^fa^k, C.S.C.; Flana­Wagner, Mihon J.; Wagner, Willard. gan, Christie; Fogerty, Robert; Fontana, John C ; Frederick, John F.; Galardy, Frank ^f.; GaHagher, Wallace, John J.; W.alsh, Leo W.; Wabh, Thomas Peter J.; Garbcr, Bernard A.; Geraghty, Joseph; F.; Walsh, V. T.; White, James E.; Williams, Gibson, David X.; Gilbert, Jacob H.; G'cason, Art; Charles; Winbcrry, John J.; Wingerter, John J.; Graham, Robert F. Worden, Roy A.; Wozniak, Stephen J. 
Grams, August M.: Griffin, Joe; Hamilton, Robert A.; Hans, A. F.; Hart. Tom; Hartley. James J.; 
1929 

Hasley, Henr>'; Haven, Clarence B.; Hetreed, Dr. Francis W.; Hilger, Joe; Holdampf. Frank J.; 
James R. Nowcr>*, P. O. Box 1545, 

Koran. Joe; Igoe, John; Jeffer>-s, Hudson; Johns, William B.; Johnson, J. .\. 
Shreveport, La. 
LEO SCHRi\LL has secured a leave of absence Johnson, Tom, Jr.; Jones, William B.; Kearney, from his job as activities director of the R. G. 

William P.; Kcarns, James R.; Kelley. George; LeTourneau Co. in Peoria, III., in order to manage Kinnear>-, Joseph P.; Kirby, Robert E.; Kirwan J. 
the Peoria Red Wings, an enir>' in the girls' softball W. "Bill"; Knox, Robert V.; Konop, W. H. 

league. 

Korsen, Bernard J.; Kuehl, Rtissell C ; Lahey, John P.; Langton, J. J.; Lavelle, Tom; Leahy. W. H., 
A seaman who fell overboard from the S.S, Santa 
Jr. 
Clara in the Caribbean Sea, and who not known to be missing until the ship had proceeded 25 miles, Lusson, Raymond J.; Lyons. John J.; McCarthy, was sighted three hours later by NORBERT BERG-Frank P.; ^fcGeoghegan, Michael E.: McGuire. 

HOFF, of Fort Wayne, Ind., who was a passenger. 

Edirard P.; Mclntyre, Leo R-; McKeown, Edward The seaman said he was convinced that he was saved P.; McMahon, John F.; McXamara. Joseph P.; 
by the power of prayer. 

Madden, Joe; Ntahin, William; Massman. H. J., Jr.; Mcinert. D. NL, "Turk"; Mever, Francis P.; 
DR. EDW.ARD S. POST has been named super­Miller, Harold A. 
intendent of the Veterans hospital at Battle Creek, Mich. 

Mobily, Sylveiter; Mohlman. Robert J.; ^fonisen, Reuben; Morrissey, Joe S.; Mulreany. Rev. Andy JULES GRGSS.\L'\.V received the degree of J., C.S.C; Murphy, Hayes; Murphy, John R.; Master of Science in Retailing at New York Univer­Murphy, William H.; Xorman, Lou; O'Brien, E. sity on June 9. A.; O'Brien. George G., Jr.; O'Connor, Philip A.; O'Connor, Pierce J.; O'Kecfe. Michael; O'Mara, Bill; Persyn, Henry A. 
1930 

Phalin. Howard V.; Phelan, Richard L.; Pink-
Harold E. Duke, 4030 N. Broad St., 

ley, J. Carroll; Polisky, John; Power, Kenneth T.; Quinlan, Richard D.; Quinn. Edward R.; Quinn, Philadelphia, Pa. Frank J.; Rafter, Edward P.; Ran, Dono\-an J.; Rice, Chct; Rich, Ronald; Rickord, John W.; 
JOSEPH J. LORDI, of the New York Athletic Ricks, Michael T.; Rigney, J. Joseph. 
Club, won the veteran*s national squash tennis cham­pionship played at the Yale Club in New York. He Rigney, Robert J.; Rini, Martin A.; Rodgers, John 
defeated Walter D. Hoag of the Yale Club, a J.; Ruppel, Harold W.; Ryan, Martin A.; Sargus, 
former champion, in the final round of the tourney. 
George J.; Scheuer, George .\.; Schuesslcr, Charles The Catholic Press Association named Lucile Has-A.; Searer, R. Floyd; Seidcnsticker, Norbert; Shock-Icy, wife of ProL LOUIS HASLEY, assistant dean nessy, James W.; Simonin, J. R.: Smith, David H.; 
of the College of Arts and Letters, as the winner Smith, Russell R.; Solman, Fred J.; Strohm, of its first prize of $600 in its annual short story Francis H. 

contest. ^Irs. Hasley*s story was *'The Little Tehan, Edirard Allan; Thoma, C. A.; Tobin, 
Girls," a tale of a mother's grief at the death of her Paul G., Dr.;a Topping, Charles G.; Traughbeal, 
little girls. 
GUS BONDI is district manager for the Metro­politao Life Insuxaoce Co. in Cindmiati. 
DR. WILLIAM H. MORAN is practidng ine^­doe in Los Angeles. His address is 4248 McChug I>ri\'e, Los Angeles 43. 
MORT GOODMAN, of Chicago, wrote firom Hollywood, Calif., while on a trip to the West Coast that he had got in touch with AL WELZEN­BACH, CHARLIE GASS, and EARL BARRY. He also saw BENTLEY RYAN, JOHNNY RIDER and a host of others. 
DAN CANNON was a division chairman in the Catholic Hospitals building fund campaign in Co-Itunbus, O. 
LAURENCE P. FIT2SIMMONS is working for Insulation Industries, Inc., in Chicago. 
1931 
Walter F. Philipp, 4 Pickwick Lane, Newton Square, Pa. 
As probably almost everybody already knows, FRANK LEAHY wiU coach the CoUege AO-Stan against the Chicago Cardinals, pro league cham­pions, on Aug. 20, in Chicago. 
JOHN C. SHIVELY is the newly elected chair­man of the St. Joseph County (South Bend) Democratic Party. The Republican county chair­man, THOMAS E. BATH, ex. '32, was reelected to the post last month. 
ROBERT J. CALLAGHAN is %-ice president of Brass Warehouse, 79 Exchange St., Rochester 4, 
N. Y. 
JAMES L. MULV.ANEY, Sr., is doing sales work in Chicago. His home is 1344 W. 97th Place, Chicago, 43. 
JAMES HIGGISTON, assistant principal at Mil­ford High School, Southboro, Mass., and member of the faculty 16 years, has been appointed prin­cipal of Peters High School and Junior High School, Southboro. 
1934 
Joseph R. Glcnnon, Jr., Commercial Solvents Corp., 17 E. 42nd St., New York City 17. 
VINCENT J. McALOON is teaching at St. Joseph's College, Kingston, Jamaica, British West Indies. 
CONNaE SHACKETT has been made treasurer of the Ice-Flow Corp., in Pawtucket. R. I. He is also first vice president of the corporation, which manufactures ice-making machinery. 
JULI.AN WILLIAM QUINN is a petroleum engi-
Continued on page 31 
MEMORIAL PROFESSORSHIP HONORS DR. O'BRIEN 
A full professorship in cancer re­search at the University of Miimesota was dedicated on April 30 to the memory of the late Dr. William A. O'Brien, ex '12, member of the Min­nesota medical faculty from 1921 until his death last November. 
Executives of the Minnesota Can­cer Society, which Dr. O'Brien headed for 10 years, aimounced the extension of the $5,000 research fel­lowship established three years ago to a full professorship named in honor of Dr. O'Brien. The fellowship now is held by Dr. Robert O. Huseby. 

The State of the Reunion—For those who were there, this one-man review of what and who happened at the 15-year heigh­hoedown may seem unnecessarily limited and localized in coverage—or maybe it will just seem unnecessar>% 
For those who weren't able to return— honest, we all missed you—maybe a few brief phrases about the various phases and faces noted by yr. humble & obed'n't serv'nt, plus a long list of names, -ivill help a little tc plug up that 15-year gap. .. . So here goes, or more properly, here went. . . . 
June 4 dawned bright and extremely early, courtesy of the New York Central, on a well-remembered but unfamiliar campus empty of all but a bomber squadron of doves cooing Matins in the Grotto, a con­gregation of priests saying Masses in the Basement Chapel, a scurrj-ing of girls en route to work in the laundry . , . and JACK HOYT, CHUCK ROHRS, and ED ECK­ERT. This trio had also been favored by the train schedule with their first unintended and involuntary experience of the dawn's early light, minus Manhattan's sun-shading skyscrapers, in many years. 
They bunked us '33s in Breen-Phillips Hall, a long haul (with suitcase, at least) on the Vctville side of the campus. It was a rare privilege, at that. We've read of the new acadomesticity, but for many of us this was our first sight of homework which meant just what ft said—the first time "strapping youngsters" meant, not over­sized freshmen, but that Daddy had to study his physics, and by gosh if you don't keep quiet . . . strapping youngsters, see? 
Early on the scene was another little band oi reluctant Gotham risers headed and announced by BILL LYNCH. PHIL FA­HERTY, hailing from New Jersey, soon haled his baggage into the hall. It was getting hot—one of those skull-bubbling In­diana mornings. The shouts and the clat­ter rose with the temperature as old friends, old roommates, and guys who had never seen each other before began bleating wel­comes and fond insults. 
The golfers poured out to study their lies, the convivials cliqued and clinked, and the sensible took a nap. JIM ARM­STRONG was found cool and unruffled, trying to track down by phone, wire, car­rier and stool pigeon the location of known or suspected big shots allegedly on the campus. Washington Hall, self-consciously imposing its New Look in front, was re­soundingly familiar in back, rending and rendering the heat-shimmer vdth blatt, yearp, umpha and tinkling scales as musi­cians warmed up with the day. 
A spate of spats, a veil of tears and a mist of smiles rolled out of Sacred Heart church as another groom took the bridal; shutters clicked and tongues clacked as the wedding party delayed the take-off under the cold eyes of seniors sprawled in long tradition on Sorin's outpost: the last long look before the plunge. 
Twenty years in time and 20 pounds in 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

TIGHE E., formerly E. Tighe, WOODS, in from Washington . . . and talk over rents, controls and maybe even politics with' 
1933 
tS-Year Reunion 
By 
Joseph A. McCabe, Advertising, East­man Kodak Co., 343 State St., Rochester, N. Y. 

dignity were abruptly tossed to the winds as the men of '28 appeared in bright green beanies; the founder's statue slowly raised, sculptured eyes to Heaven. Noon, and new waves of old grads loomed on the scene; the caf reverberated with the sound and fury of auld acquaintance at least once for­got, of old jokes about meat on the Friday menu, and old slang being loudly auditioned again. 
Back in Breen-Phillips Hall, 1933 was being dragged back from limbo by the ears; from Chicago, from Cleveland, and points north and South Bend; from worries ai home and woes at work; from yesterday and tomorrow. PAT CROWLEY, ED STEPHAN, TOM SEXTON, JACK GED­DES, MAURY LEE, JOHN O'SHAUGH­NESSY, FRAN CROWE, LEO HODEL, CARL "STUMPIE" CRONIN (he likes us '33's; it's mutual), FRED BECKLENBERG, AUSTIN RIGNEY, and a horde of others trooped from the Loop; JACK BREEN and ERNIE GARGARO headed up the Detroit tigers; JIM UPRICHARD, looking a day or two younger, and talking pennant, breezed in from Cleveland; GEORGE AUG and NEILL "BOILER" EBERT were other Ohioans; JIM SHEA and DAVE POWERS forsook Times Square for the weekend; forgot his—and your—rent worries to drop 
LARRY SEXTON, of Indianapolis; VINCE BURKE and PINKY MARTIN emerged from Pittsburgh to attend; the two Marty's, MORAN and DONAGHUE, were together, as of yore; JOHN BARRETT, or a rea­sonable facsimile thereof, appeared from Alexandria, La., sah; BERNIE COUSINO, Erie, Mich., and b'gosh, CHARLIE FISS, of Oshkosh, were present. 
Topside representatives were Rev. Frs. CHARLES "CHICK" SHEEDY, c.s.c, of Notre Dame, and LLOYD TESKE, c.s.c, of Portland, Ore. BOB REULAND of South Bend towered among us, and FRANK McGEE, the reformed Chicago Title and Trust expert, bespoke the Vet's Adminis­tration; ED younger DAILEY beamed on all; BUD MURPHY recalled B team days; TED FELDMAN, of Detroit, and benign GEORGE BEAUDINE, talking of an ab­sent classmate, so moved JACK BREEN he unsuccessfully called Caifomia long dis­tance to talk to ED MORIARTY; reliable informants vow they saw BILL CAMP­BELL of South Bend, and BILL CASE of Elkhart, as well as a number of other bills; also JIM ASH, BOB BRUCKER, and JOHN McNAMARA of South Bend. 
Afternoon, and a number of other ele­ments, waxed and waned; twilight was still draping the prefabs and Quonsetts of Vet-ville with merciful gloom when the '33 reunion party coughed, rumbled and got underway in Vetville Hall—^where during the school year, the student families find that there's still a little fun in the funda­mentals of education. 
Here's where the class of '33 takes time out to pay, in a small way, the large debt of credit owed for the success of the party to: BILL DOOLEY, assistant alumni sec­retary, who worked untiringly to get not only our class, but all class reunions in the groove; AL ARTZ, the local chairman, who uncomplainingly gave countless hours run­ning from his work and home in South Bend out to school to set things up for the test of us; to PAUL BOEHM, the vice-chairman, and the loyal members of their 
| 
' \ 

Judging by (he meirimeni being •Tidenced. Ncrtionol Housing Expediter Tighe Woods, extreme right, obTioualy ia net discnwing the housing situation with Joe Mc­Cabe, doss secretary, at the '33 celebration in the Vetville Heoreotioa HaU. 
Volume 26. No. 4, July-Aug., 1948 
small committee, JOE MUELLNER, JIM ASH, BOB BRUCKER, JOHN McNA-MARA, BILL CASE, and BOB REULAND. 
Also a vote of thanks to ED "Moose" KRAUSE, '34, who exhibited and com­mented upon a strikingly effective movie of ND's great hoop victory over NYU in Madi­son Square Garden last winter. And FATHER "CHICK" SHEEDY, who took time out from his many duties to celebrate the class Mass on Sunday in the Breen-Fhillips chapel. Here's a " '33"-gun salute to all of you! 
Well, that just about winds up the re­port, mates. My sincere apologies for the misspelled names and the misplaced mem­ories and all my sins of omission and com­mission. But if I saw you there, and the 

• wife wants to know why I haven't men­tioned you, or if I've listed you among those present, and the boss thought you were burying your grandmother—don't curse the poor columnist—WRITE! 
See you in 1953. . . . 
Following is a list of those from '33 who registered somewhere on the campiu over the weekend of runion: 
Alaman, Louis; Artz, A. J.; Aug. George; Bald­inger, Lawrence; Barrett, John M.; Bean, Joseph W.; Beaudine, George; Becldenberg, Fred; Bergan, Edward L.; Bochm, Paul; Botti, A. C; Breen, Jack F.; Bruckcr, R. A. 
Burke, J. Vincent, Jr.; Carroll, William P., Jr.; Chenal, Bob; Chreist, Louis R., Jr.; Cousineau, Bernard; Crowe, Frank; Crowley, Pat; Connea, John; Dailey, Edward W.; Daly, James F.; Dames, Roland N.; Danehy, Jim; Darmody, Phih'p A.; Davey, Joe; DcWald, Maurice J. 

Donahue, William; Ebert, Neill; Eckert, Edward J.; Fahcrty, Philip J., Jr.; Feldman, Theodore F.; Fiss, Charles J.; Frank, Carlos H.; Fulton, Robert v.; Galla, John J.; Gargaro, Ernest J.; Garrily, Donald E.; Causselin, Edward; Gerend, Jaznes J.; Greer, Jerry; Habcrkcrn, Bud; Hafron, C. F. 
Hawkes, William M.; Hess, Loren; Higgins, Willard J.; Hodel, L. W.; Ho>1, J. A., Jr.; Hyde, Sam; Kennedy, J. E.; Kenny, J. B.; Leahy, Rev. James, C.S.C.; Lee, Maury; Lynch, W, A.; Alahcr, Lawrence; Martin, Don; Matavosky, Frank G.; McCabe, Joseph D. A.; McNamara, John. 
Medland, Charles; MiUch, William H.; Moran, Martin C ; Muellner, Joseph F.; Murphy, L. C. "Bud"; O'Hara, Michael D.; O'Shaughnessy, J. J.; Parish, Varnum A.; Pinkley, Talbert C, Jr.; Pow^B, Robert D.; Powers, Dr. David Guy; Poynton, John; Reilly, George; Rigali, Paul A.; Rigney, Austin G.; Rohrs, George H. 
Schwartz, Norbert; Seaman, Paul; Sexton, Larry; Sexton, Thomas; Shea, James F.; Rev. Charles Shcedy, C.S.C.; Sloan, John F., Jr.; Stephan, Edmond A.; Stitt, Lawrence J.; Sullivan, John J.; Teske, Rev. L. W., C.S.C; Thune, T. R.; Troy, Edward; Uprichard, James; Wade, Thomas V.; Wittenburg, Bill; Woods, Tighe. 
DONALD L. LUSARDI is a sales man­ager. His home address is 23 Sycamore St., Somerville, N. J. 
HENRY J. CLUVER was recently transferred to Philadelphia to take over the position of district sales manager of the Wire and Cable Dept. His new ad­dress is 107 Kirk Ave., Foxwood Park, Broomall, Pa. 
LOUIE CHREIST, of the South Bend Toy Co., was general chairman of the in­ternational volleyball tournament held in South Bend May 13 to 15, in which 34 teams from 26 states and Canada com­peted. GEORGE COOPER, who lectures at N.D. and is athletic director of the South Bend YMCA, worked with Louie in run­ning the tourney. 
WILLIAM P. CARROLL, JR., has opened an office for the practice of law at n o Benton St., Woodstock, 111. 
1934 
(Continued from Page 29) 

neer with the Gulf Oil Corp., P.O. Drawer 2100, Houston, Tex. 
EDWARD F. VYZRAL, who practices law in Chicago, was elected an aldennan in a spedal election to fill a vacancy. 
BOB KELLEY, formerly of South Bend, is the field representative of the Convention Bureau of the Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
JOHN I. HDETHER. '22 

John J. Huether, '22, has been named manager of the Transportation Division, a new industry sales division of the General Electric Company's Apparatus Department^ it has been announced by Chester H. Lang, vice-president and general manager of sales. Apparatus Department. 
Jack has been assistant managr of the Industrial Divisions, one of the three exist­ing sales divisions of the Apparatus Depart­ment, since 1945. A native of Sharon, Fa., he was graduated from Notre Dame with a degree in electrical engineering and joined the company's test course the same year as a student engineer. A year later, he was assigned to the Alternating Current Engi­neering Department. 
In 1924 Jack joined the Industrial De­partment in the steel mill section. He was promoted to manager of sales in the ma­chinery manufacturers section in 1931. In 1937, he was named manager of the mining and steel mill section of the Industrial De­partment. This section is now called the Industrial Materials Division of the Indus­trial Divisions. 
Jack is a member of the American Iron and Steel Institute and chairman of the Manufactuerrs Division of the American Mining Congress. 
1935 
FranUyn C. Hoclireiter, 1327 BEBtwobd 
Rd., Baltimore 12, Md. Froa HOCH: Then leeim to be a Iqae !• the lateiat af-At 

'33 gang. Let's get back oa the beaai with a thr ktten or «e will drop to the bottbaa ol the hiey in the clan aotcs scctioa of our "tag." 
With the ezceptioa oC a mdEag aaaoaaccacaC of "MITCH SALE" and a letter fnm TOM PROCTOR, BOthiag came in siaoe oar hit t^p to pres. 
We want to send the best wishes of the daa «• Mitch and his bride, the fonoer Adde Ibi a Haddad. The wedaEag took place oa Jane 6, in Sliddl, La. 
Thanks for the invitation, IGtdi! How dnat a note to ten m something about yoaatU? 
The ptede writes that he is coatinaiag his wttlif jaunts to Washington. On a leceat trip he tan iato ART OONKAD in the Statlcr. What wcM «• during that meeting should have kept the can of • many of OS ringins and wann. 
Our apologies and congntnbtioas to DR. WCXt SCROLZ. The avokgies ate due because of o v ne^ecting to annonnrf the biith of a vctr cue diughler, Maitlia, on Feb. 22. And oar iieficita­tions go to Ror as the new president oi dK Notre Dame Cbb of Baltimote. 
As for jom scribe, he was dected pmiJut of the Oemooatic Cbb of Northwood leontijr. Nssth­wood is a scctioa of Baltimore and the pbca «( residence of about a dozen Node Daaeis. 
Get on the beam, gang! 
1937 
Frank J. Reilly, MacNair-Doriand Co , 254 W. 31st St, N. y. C 

ALBERT J. McALOON is awtfinator of Oa Rhode Island'jovoiile court system^ and-in »^^^**im to his other ^ties broadcasts three times twck ynA' over various stations in Rhode Island o« jnvcaile delinquencr. . . 
EDWARD J. DAHILL, JR., '37, iriio .asked tor the address at PAUL T. DORAN (it's SC9 S. West St., Galesburg, DL), was maiiied in Fact .Wayae, Ind., on June 23 to Catherine Claire Knk. sister of A. J. FINK, '28, and FRANCIS A. (BIU.) FINK. '30. THOMAS FOY, '38, was the best man. 
ANTHOLOGY BY 
FATHER THORNTON 
The full story of the Cathtdic lit­erary revival in England, France Ireland and the United States during the last 100 years is told for the first time in a new anthology, Rttum to Tradition, edited by Rev. Frandt B. Thornton, '31. The 920-page bodt is.being published by the Bruce Pub­lishing Co., Milwaukee. 
Twenty years of reading, research and critical study preceded the writ­ing of this story of "the movement which has lent Christian depth and lustre to' philosophy, liturgy, paychd­ogy, the novel, poetry, and every branch of literature and art." In this comprehenave anthology Fatter Thornton presents the "riches of the Catholic heritage, sanity and poMer." ­
Among the American witters tiep­tesented in the anthcdogy are the late Father Charies L. CDonneD, csx. , former president of the Univeisity, and the late Charles Phillips,' a tai­mer professor at Notre Dame. 
The Noire Dame Alumnus 

It was a great and grand reunion — ask any of the 133 boys who attended and reg­istered (probably there were a few there who didn't register.) 
I won't endeavor to make an individual report on everj'one who was present — the crowd was too large, the time too short, and, besides, I was on my vacation. I left my pencil and paper at home. Okay, go ahead and impeach me. 
If you were there, you met all the fel­lows, heard all the stories^ and saw all the pictures of the beautiful wives and chil­dren. If you weren't there, all I can say is that you were missed, and that you missed it. 
The class reunion party Friday night at Mannerchor Hall was a roaring success, and that's an understatement if I ever made one. There was laughter (HUB KIRCHMAN and HOOK KERWIN were present), songs (under the able direction of that great basso-profundo, JOHN KEL­LEY), prizes (PAUL LE.^HY was hon­ored as the class father — he has six chil­dren,—and TOM HUTCHINSON got a case of South Bend beer for traveling the greatest distance for the reunion — from Bend, Ore.), beer (CHUCK BOROWSKI was behind the bar and he wouldn't take "no" for an answer), food (tuna fish until midnight, ham after that), and reminis­cences "Remember that dining hall fish? . . . remember the night that gang from Sorin sub went to Niles? . . . Remember FATHER BRENN.'iN's reaction when old Joe what's-his-name fell asleep? Remember . . . remember ... " It didn't seem like ten years. . . . 
I have a few other memories of that memorable evening: JOHNTS'Y PLOUFF, the only one with his coat on, working hard at the door, collecting money from the boys . . . FRANK O'REILLY imating everyone up to his apartment in Chicago — anytime 
— for bourbon . . . PHIL BAYER and JOHN WATERS looking taller than ever . . . TIM CRUiCE and LARRY DILLON a.'; inseparable as ever . . . someone playing the accordion . . . JOHN SCOTT and FMIL RUGE, the English majors, talking about FATHER WARD's English class . . . TEX HAGG.\R's beautiful green necktie . . . JOHN O'CONNOR'S silver>- hair . . . TIGER McGRATH asking F.ATHER BILL BOTZUM, C.S.C., the difference between e.«ence and existence . . . DON HICKEY quietly smiling as he looked around at the big, noisy crowd . . . the way the boys started looking for chairs at midnight and gathering in the old groups. . . . 
After the partj* the boys went back to Cavanaugh Hall where the talk and the singing continued until 2:30 a. m. when the fire department arrived to put out the fire in the front seat of a car from Chicago. 
Saturday CHARLIE C.\LL.A.HAN had scheduled a Softball game with the class of 1943, but the boys, who were beginning to 
1938 
lO-Year Reunion 
By 
Harold A. Williams, 4323 Marble Hall Rd., Baltimore, Md. 

vorite Saturday afternoon story: FATHER JOE RACE and DENN'Y EMMANUEL decided to play handball. They went to MCALLISTER, the equipment man, and "Smiling Mac" gave them brand new equipment without a fight — shoes, socks, shorts, T-shirts, etc. .\fter an hour they were all set to play. Then they discovered that they didn't have a ball The '38 prizes for the best golf of the %veekend went to BOB LEONARD, TOM JORDAN, CHUCK O'REILLY, LEN SKOGLUND, BOB THARINGER, TOM MULLIGAN and BILL RILEY. PAUL KIZELI took charge of that phase of the weekend. 
After the Alumni Banquet Saturday eve­ning, the boys returned to Cavanaugh Hall for more songs and more stories ("What ever happened to BILL ROBINSON from Detroit?) . . . I've seen BUB CROWLEY Where's his old side-kick, JOE THORN­BURG? . . . What was the name of that fellow who lived in Lyons sub and had all the electrical gadgets that opened his win­dow, turned off the alarm, and closed his door? . . . Does anyone know of a job that pays $150 a week? .. . I wonder why BUNNY McCORMACK isn't here . . . Someone said JOHNNY WILSON is in South America ... " And so on far into the night. . . . 
Sunday morning F.\THER JOE RACE said Mass in the Cavanaugh Hall chapel and gave a fine sermon. DENNY EMMAN­UEL served mass, and GEORGE SAUTER played the organ. Ever)'one agreed that this part of the reunion was the highpoint of the weekend. 
And now, in the name of the class, I would like to thank those who were re­sponsible for making the reunion a suc­cess. The main credit goes to the South Bend committee — DON HICKEY, the chairman, J.\CK LE.'XDBETTER, SWEDE BAUER, JOHN PLOUFF, CHARLIE CALLAHAN, CHARLIE DUKE, CHUCK BOROWSKI, DON FISHER, JACK SCOTT, JIM LAHEY, MICKEY BEAUD­WAY and PAUL KIZELI and anyone else who had a hand in the arrangements. They did ever)-thing from draw a map showing how to get to Mannerchor Hall to go out to Dogto%vn at 3 in the morning to get ice for the beer. These men plus BILL DOO­LEY. of the -Mumni Ofiice, and JOHNNY O'CONNOR, who served as general chair­man of the reunion, had arranged for the regional committees, made the reunion a great success. 
That's about all except a word of thanks for the monogram blanket that was pre­sented to me at the class reunion, "for your work as class secretary." 
At the 20-year reunion I'll bring a pencil and paper. Those who attended the reunion and reg­istered were: 
feel their age, decided to sit it out. As PAT Gathered aroimd a table at the '38 celebration in the Mannerchor Club are, left CAREY, our prospective pitcher said, "I'm to right John Plouii- Don Hickey. generol chairman; Charley Callahan; Bev. going to claim credit for a no-hitter." Fa-Philip S. Moore. CS. C dean of the Graduate School; and Jim Beaudway. 
Volume 26, No. A, July-Aug., 1948 
Anton, Jack; Annel, W. B.; Bayer, Phil; Beaud­way, Mickey; Beer, John J.; Bernard, E. B.; Bourke, John T.; Brennan, Edward J.; Bright, Frank; Brown, Charles; Buckley, John; Callahan, Charles; Carey. Pat; Carson, James F.; Clifford, 

i^ ' Jcrr>-. 
Clifford, Bill; Crockett, R. G.; Crowe, Andrew "Mike"; Crowley, F. E.; Cruicc, J. Timothy; Cur­rier, Donald F.; Davis, John F.; Delany, Frank J.; DcMattc, John; DeMots, J. E.; Dercngoski, Robert; Dillon, LawTcnce A.; Drislane, James J.; DuBois, Robert C ; Duke, Charles W.; Dutmers, James E.; Emmanuel, Dr. D. G. 
Fisher, D. W.; Fitzgerald, Tom; Flanigan, Ed­ward T.; Foley, J. R.; Foster, Harvey; Fox, John P.; Francis, John J.; Frcedy, John I-; Gcrl, Richard; Gibbons, William; Gibbs, Dan S. Jr.; Gorman, John; Hackman, Robert H.; Haggar, Ed; Heckler, Al. 
Henncssy, Richard J.; Henrj-, Bob; Hickcy, Don; Holtz, Robert F.; Hooper, J. B.; HoH-ard, George C, Jr.; Hughes, Dr. Thomas M.; Hummer, Edward J.; Hutchinson, Tom E.; Jehle, John; Jordan, Thomas; Kane, Owen N.; Keegan, Gregg W.; Kelley, John R.; Kelly, Francis; Kelly, Joseph J. 
Kerwin, Lawrence J.; Kirch, Phil; Kirchman, Francis; Kirchman, Hubert; Kiszclt, Paul J.; Ku­harich, Joseph L.; Lacey, John W.; Lambezto, Nick; Langer, Robert J.; Langton, Hal; Laughlin, Robert N.; Lcadbctter, Jack; Leahy, Paul; LeMire, Robert E.; Leonard, Bob. 
Longstreth. Ray E.; Lungren, Dr. John C ; Magee, J. B.; Mahoney, John P.; Manbc, Joseph D.; Marshall, Walter; Mazancc, Robert J.; McGrath, Bob; Mehring, J. \V., Jr.; MonacelH, Walter J.; Monaghan, Dr. Daniel G.; Monteverde, J. P.; Moore, Joe; Moulder, Jack; Mulligan, Tom; Murphy, John Patrick; Murrin, John. 
Nowak, Paul T.; O'Connor, John C.; O'Laugh-Hn, F. J.; O'Reilly, Chuck; Pinas, John C ; Plouff, John; Poore, John N.; Prusha, Frank R.; PupHs, Andy; Race, Rev. Adrian; Riley, Bill; Rowe, Joseph K.; Rugc. Vernon; Russell, Francis; Sauter, George J. 
Schaub, Paul J.; Sclileudccker, George F.; Sher-rod. Dr. Allan; Slxsmith, William L.; Skoglund, Len; Smith, Eugene J-; Stewart, l^wrence C ; Suleski, Anthony C ; Sweeney, Chuck; Terry, Charles P.; Tharinger, Bob; Thulis, John J.; Tier­nan, Luke J.; Trefzcr, Theodore W.; Vance, Cass. 
Waters, John R.; Weaver, Robert; Wehrie, Joe; Weigand, Thomas H.; Williams, George J.; Wil­liams. Harold A.; Winninger, Francis A.; Wukovits, Thomas. 
FATHER VINCENT DELAVY, c.s.c, writes from the Bengal Missions in Pakistan that he was "as tickled as a small tot with a new pair of pink pants" to receive the ten-year reunion announcements. His chief regret is that, being in the scminarj-, he met his classmates only in the classrooms and therefore had little opportunity of really knowing them. 
Father Delax-y has been in the Bengal Missions for the past several years. 'At present I am in the last western mission post in the Dacca Diocese, where you can add the bear and tiger to the buffalo's roaming. My work is among aboriginals. .. . I have not brought down a tiger or bear yet. However,. I must admit that both have nearly brought me down .. . A big, bad, black bear chased me for the fastest mile in my life on Good Friday night. This night I broke all records? The tiger? Well, he decided to eat a buffalo instead of 
"I realize all of you must be doing your bit for the Good Lord. Yet, I wanted you tc know that one of the '38'ers is trying to do his bit here for Him. Happy to learn that you are going to stick together in 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
EDWARD J. CRONIN, '38 
Edward J. Cronin, '38, instructor in Eng­lish and graduate student at the University of Minnesota, was awarded the Newman Citation for 1948 at the annual banquet of the Newman Foundation on April 15. The Citation is given annually to the outstand­ing Catholic on the Minnesota campus in recognition of work done for the Church and of good example given to Catholic stu­dents, who number 6,500. 
The citation also was won in 1947 by a Notre Dame man, the late Dr. William A. O'Brien, e.x. '12, director of the Graduate School of Medicine until his death in No­vember, 1947. (See page 29 for further news of Dr. O'Brien.—Ed.) 
After leaving Notre Dame, Ed studied at the University of Chicago, receiving a Mas­ter's Degree in English in 1940. He was a book reviewer for the Chicago Sun and taught English at Chicago. Since the fall of 1943 he has been an instructor of Eng­lish at Minnesota and has been studying for a Ph.D. in English. 
He is active in the Newman Club and for the last three years has been faculty ad­visor for student members of the club. Ed is married and the father of three children, two boys and a girl. 
honor of the Great Mother under whom we all studied. . . , Nothing but happiness is my prayer for all of you. Sip one for me, your friend and classmate in the jungles of the Lord. 
"The kiss of Peace to FATHER JOE R-^CE, with whom I misspelt words in Shakespeare class, now guard on the Lord's team." 
ROBERT WHITEHEAD is practicing law at 104/a W. Walnut, Kokomo, Ind., and THOMAS G. KAVAN.'VGH is prac­ticing at 1717 Dime Bldg., Detroit 26, Mich. 
JOSE LUIS NIN is a civil engineer in 

Blocksburg, Va. He receives his mail at Box 207. 
JEROME B. MAGEE has left the avia­tion industry, where he had held pontions in design, research and testing, to take a position as sales engineer in air conditioii­ing and refrigeration. 
JOE KUHARICH, new head footbaU coach at the University of San Francisco, recently visited his family in South Bend. He sees practically nothing but disaster ahead for his team next year, but he hopes to win half his games. Joe's all-Notie Dame staff of assistants are BRAD LYNN, '40, CHUCK RIFFLE, '40, and CHUCK HAF­RON, '33. 
DR. JOHN N. FOGEL regretted that his duties at Mercy Hospital in San Diego, Cal., prevented him from attending the re­union. He was married in San Juan last April 10 to Elizabeth Chappele of Provi­dence, R. L John will open an office in San Juan the latter part of this summer. 
1939 
Vincent DeCoursey, 1917 Elizabeth, Kansas'City 2, Kansas 

JOHN O. SCHULZE, who is an engineer at the Propeller Laboratory, Wright Field, Dayton, O., sends word that J. L. ADRIAN is now at the Curtiss FropeUer Division, Caldwell, N. J., and that 
E. K. GRIMES is chief of the Project Engineering Unit, at the Wright Field Propeller Laboratory. 
Cook County (HI.) Conmiissioncr MARIO TO­NELLI, a survivor of the Bataan death march and a Japanese prisoner for four years, was honored by the Republican Party when he was selected to bead the section of elected public ofiBdals in a pre­convention parade in Springfield. It was in recogni­tion of his efforts in the year .and a half lie has been a member of the county board. The Republi­credit to the Italian-American dtiiens state and as a Republican office holder whohas proved worthy of the trust of the voters. 
STANLEY R. SHEERAN. of 100 Philadelphia Pike, Rolling Park, Claymont, Del., is in the Electro, chemicals Dept. of the duPont Co. Kfis. Sheeran reports tfiat they have seen quite a few Notre Dame people since moving to Delaware. She said that JIM McGOLDRICK, who is associated mth > brokerage house in Wall Street, and his wife, Cele, are among those they see frequently. Others they have come to contact with itndude BOB BIRK­ENHAUER, the CARL IRWINS. TOM GILLES­PIE, BILL MURRAY, RUSS and IS.\BELLE KERTZ, and WALT LOG.AN. 
Lisa cmd Stephen, the second set oi twins bom-to Mr. and Mrs. Chotles Pieroni. '36, were bom last Jan. 27. The twin girls were bom in 1945. The 
Pieionis hare eight childieii. 
The Notre Dome Alumnus 
1940 
Robert G. Sanford, 4218 N. 17th St, Milwaukee 9, Wis. 
From ROBERT F. COXNOLY, ^Vater Street East, Harbor Grace, Newloundhind. 
"Alany times since jny graduation in 1940 have my thoughts gone back to Notre Dame and its rich associations. I am at present emplo>*ed \«th the Department of Education in Neivfoundland, as super\isor of elementary and secondary schools. . . . 
'*I was privileged to attend Notre Dame once more, when I enrolled for the jxar beginning 1946, and reneued acquaintances with professors I knew in my undergraduate da>-s. besides meeting several others. 
'There are many, many old acquaintances from whom I would like to hear. To mention just two: THOMAS K. REIS, Commerce, 1941, and ^VIL­LIAM E. SCANLAN, 1942. Bill Scanlan, who, I think, was in Carroll Hall, prior to moving into St. Ed's in 1940, made me a very sweet gesture in haWng a Afass offered for the repose of the soul of my father, who died while I was at school. 
"I hear occasionally from BOB LATANZI, who was EG 1 when World War II broke out. AVhen last I heard from him—December, 1947, he said in part: 
'Since getting out of servncc I've been attend­ing Syracuse Uni\*ersity, and this coming Sept­ember I hope to enter Albany Law School.' 
"In the last 'Alumnus' I saw a letter to SCOOP SCANX^AN from Tommy B. He was to be ordained a priest this June 19. He mentioned his brother, MATTY BYRNE, tilled in war about six >-ears ago. This was news to me, as I sat next to Matty in FATHER HEBERT'S Latin Class, in 1940, doing Horace and Quintillian. We ^v•ere reminded from day to day by our learned professor that we, unltke the boys in the Department, (it would be un­kind to write that; eleven letter word), were Class­icists. What grace and charm had Matty! He certainly was a classicist in very truth. He resided in Lyons Hall, rooming with a Jl^f BURKE, also from New York. May his soul rest in peace, dear God, and may you, oh Father, unknown to me, but brother of INlatty, find immense happiness in your high vocation! 
"I am eagerly looking forward to the completion of the Alumni Directory, that I may locate the add­resses of many names dear to roe. I here and now in\-ite to my home any Notre Dame boy who may be in a position to \Tsit this Island, often referred to as the Norway of the New World, because of its magnificent fiords." 
DR. GEORGE J. McMORROW, '40, professor of philosophy at Nazareth College, recently add-
CAPT. FIERI HONORED 
Camp Taylor at Wiesbaden, Ger­many, was redesignated Camp Fieri on April 6 in honor of Capt. FRAN­CIS W. FIERI, '40. who was IcUled in action in France on Aug. 22, 1944, while serving with the 4th Armored Division. 
In the Army Day ceremonies. Brig. Gen. Arthur G. Trudeau com­pared Capt. Fieri and the U. S. troops throughout the world \vith the men who fought at Lexington, Con­cord, Pearl Harbor, and Bataan. 
Capt. Fieri, who entered the serv­ice on June 28, 1941, was commis­sioned a second lieutenant in April, 1942, and left for overseas duty in December, 1943. While in action in France his outfit was cited for bravery. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
BAYMOND M. HIUJABD, '29 
Ra>Tnond M. Hilliard, '29, formerly ex­ecutive secretary of the Illinois Pubic Aid Commission, was appointed Commissioner of Welfare of New York City by Mayor O'Dwyer on March 13. 
Special legislation was required of City Council to waive residence qualifications in order for Ray to take over as head of the storm-tossed Welfare Department. 
Ray had been active in relief work in lUinois since 1934. Until 1940 he was legal representative and director of inves­tigation for the Illinois Emergency Relief Commission, predecessor of the Illinois Public Aid Commission, of which he be­came executive secretary in 1942. He served two terms as president of the Illinois Wel­fare Association and is a director of the American Public Welfare Association. He also served on several commissions created by the Illinois Legislature to investigate va­rious phases of the public assistance problem. 
During Ray's administration of public aid in Illinois he set up a state program for aid to the blind, the beginning of a state-wide program requiring financially able children to aid needy parents, and improved care for the aged. He turned back to the state the ' two largest balances from appropria­tions in the history of the welfare body. 
The new Welfare Commissioner, who re­sices at 283 Riverside Drive, is married and the father of two children. He holds a Ph.D. degree from Chicago University and an LL.6. from DePaul in Chicago. 
ressed the Chicago Lay-men's First Friday Club on 'The Freudian Alan Today." 
WILLIA^f H. KERR is coach of footbaU at Den\-cr Univeniity. His home address is 76-A, Koneer Village, Denver 10, Colo. 
KEERAN F. McKENNY, 404 E. State St., is a salesman in Mason City, loua. WILLIAM C. KENNEDY is assUtant sales mana­ger of the Kennedy Value Mfg. Co., Ehnira, N. Y. JOSEPH E. GORE represents the Anstice Co., Inc., Rochester 9, N. Y. 

JACK FISHER, '41, has written some information on a few '41 men: JIM ROCAP is assistant prosecu­tor in Indianapolis, while JOHN and FRANCIS CAREY arc prospering in the insurance agency they faa\% talien over in Indianapolis, and BOB LOUGH­ERY is doing well at the Allison Engineer Corp. JACK O'BRIEN is now fully recovered from an appendectomy. 
CHUCK RIFFLE and BRAD LYNN are assistants to JOE KUHARICH, head football coach at the Unix-etsity of San Francisco. 
(941 
John W. Patterson, Jr., 5530 Darlington Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 

EDWARD J. KELLY, 3706 Monroe, Bellwood, 111., is practicing law in Chicago. Another lawyer from the class, JOHN M. SPECA, is assisunt pro­fessor of law at the Uni^-ersity of Kansas City. 
JACK FISHER, who was married last June, is the father of a boy bom April 24. Jack reports that he sees BOB Mc^L\NUS frequently. Bob has taken over his father*s rock wool insulation business. 
BILL SOONG is among the many N. V. aero­nautics men working for Chance Vought. He is in the Hydraulics Group at Stratford, Conn. RAY­MOND H. SCHLESIER, another aeronaubcs gradu­ate, is a stress analyst with Ranger Aircraft Engines, Farmingdale, L, I., N. Y. 
1942 
William E. Scanlan, Pullman Savings Trust & Savings Bank, 400 E. 111th St., Chicago 28. 

ROBERT W. DeMOSS is in the crude oil products division of Shell Oil Co. 
R. S. MULLANEY, a Navy carrier dive-bomber pilot during the w*ar, is poH-er plant engineer of Grumann Aircraft. His major interest is in turbo­jet engine development. 
DONALD F. O'BRIEN is an account executive with an advertising agency at 703 United Gas Build­ing, Houston 2, Tex. 
WILLIAM B. HORN is Lexington area traffic manager of the Lexington Telephone Co., 151 N. Upper St., Lexington, Ky. 
GORDON GOBEL is practicing law in Harting­ton, Nebr. He has offices in the Bank of Hartington Blcfe. 
RABBI ALBERT PLOTKIN was ordained at commencement exercises at the Hebrew Union Col­lege, Cincinnati, O., on May 29. He has been assigned to a temple in Seattle, Wash. 
MIKE CARR is a salesman for the Paper Art Co., Indianapolis. GENE JAEGER is a trax-elling investigator for Dun & Bradstrcet. 
MANUFACTURERS' REPRESENTATIVES 
Carlos Lazaro, '40, and Juan E. Cintron, '40, have formed a partner­ship in San Juan, Puerto Rico, to act as manufacturers' representatives in Puerto Rico. Carlos, a civil engi­neer, and Juan, a mechanical engi­neer, feel specially qualified to deal in the lines of construction equipment and materials, and also light and heavy machinery. 
They are interested in dealing with Notre Dame men as much as possible. Anyone interested in doing business in Puerto Rico can contact them by writing to: Lazaro & Cin­tron, Apartado 325, San Juan, Puer­to Rico. The cable address is Lacin-San Juan. 
3S 

From ED RONEY: your committee had fJatmrA ca if tbde were sufficient funds. 
Whew! What a weekend! 
One hundred twenty men made it and their unanimous opinion was that our 10­year reunion in 1953 would see all of them back and as many more as they were able to tell about this one. Also unanimous was the opinion that it would take those five years to recover. 
It was a great success in every way. As fot those who didn't make it, the hope was expressed many times that they had good reasons for anyone who 'just didn't get started" really lost out this time. There were men arriving for two days. FRANK KAISER got in Thursday night so he'd be on time, and he was carrying half the in­ventory of 'Kaiser's Bar,' while CORNY JOHNSON couldn't hold out on the job after 3 p.m. Saturday and finally made a dash for it. 
Activities started Friday afternoon with the arrival of the first large groups. Old friendships were renewed over glasses in many a room and another cheer would go up every few minutes for another arrival. Seems the class of '43 is doing quite well in the world for a good number drove and many a new car was seen. 
No specific dinner was planned so the gang split up for Rosie's, the Oliver, Hoff­mann, and one or two other haunts. 
But by 9 p.m. the majority were helping to create the clamor of voices and those' familiar tinkling sounds coming from the Indiana Club. BILL EARLEY popped in with movies of the Notre Dame highlights of the 1947 football season and by the time they were over the crowd had swelled to 100 men. 
As the evening rolled on and even more men arrived President JACK TALLETT called for some quiet to introduce BILL DOOLEY, Assistant Secretary of the Alum­ni Association. Mr. Dooley welcomed the gang back and gave the class a pat on the back for its fine record of spirit as shown by the Annual Alumni Funds and the reunion. 

HERB MELTON, chairman of the local arrangements committee, took over here and awarded prizes of Knox hat coupons to some of the fellows. BILL WALSH got the prize for coming the farthest to the reunion, having come up from Baltimore. Seven years proved to be the longest any­one present had been married, so JIM WALSH took a prize home. BILL MID-DENDORF's three children earned him the prize for the most children. And FATHER RICHARD O'BRIEN, Bloomington, 111., ineligible for most of the others, took a special award. 
FRED EARLEY proved he could do much more than kick goals by wearing out his fingers on the piano all night. Some new Carusos were discovered during the course of the evening, but FRED and BILL EARLEY stole the singing honors with their hill-billy songs. 
That party didn't end there for when the club closed it simply moved back to Zahm. Saturday there were some fellows who could 
1943 
S-Yearear R Keunion 
John L. Wiggins, 6733 Windward St., Cincinnati 27, Ohio 

once again describe an Indiana sunrise and they certainly weren't making any early morning checks. 
There was supposed to be a big chal­lenge Softball game between the classes of 1943 and 1938 Saturday noon but the '38 didn't show. As a result a knock-down drag-out fence-busting battle between the married and single men of the class took place. The married team, captained by CHUCK (FARBY) GOLDEN, and con­taining HERB MELTON, BEN MAMINA, JACK WARNER, JACK TALLETT, JACK BARRY, RIP COLLINS, and JOHN FOGARTY were firmly trounced and begged off from further slaughter after seven innings and a score of 27-14. The conquering bachelors included MCE MUELLMAN, BILL UNGASHICK, JOHN McNULTY, LEE RAYMOND, DAN STEWART, BOB ROGERS, CHUCK MURPHY, FRANK FITZPATRICK, and BILL MURRIN. Golden, Raymond and some others claim we could have beaten 1938 by 41-0, the total of the two scores. 
Most of the class took in the good game between ND and Western Michigan Satur­day afternoon when a ninth-inning double gave ND a second victory of the weekend over a very strong team. 
After the game, there was time for show­ers and cocktails before the o£Scial Alumni Banquet in the Dining Hall. From there a few went out on the town while the ma­jority gathered in the Zahm Recreation Room for another party. Almost the entire 120 who had arrived by this time eventu­ally showed up there. 
The weather had been perfect for two days but Sunday gave out with the tradi­tional graduation rain. The class was for­tunate for our Mass for the deceased of the class and the. next to die was said by FATHER DICK O'BRIEN in the Zahm chapel. And there were very few who didn't show up. 
That about ended the Reunion weekend. Some stayed around awhile but most of the gang said goodbye after Mass and headed for breakfast and home in all directions. 
Success was the byword of the entire op­eration. Obviously a social success it was even one financially. All expenses other than the cost of the mailings, which were generously paid for by the Alumni Office, were covered and there was even enough left over to take care of something special 
All the money we had left over hat beea used to start a Man fund for tbe dap. Those who couldn't make the xeunioa! aie urged to add to it throu^ the cofamm M they wish. During the five yean natil our tenth reunion in 1953, five MiMes will be said on the Campus every year for die in^ tcntions of the living and the repoie of A e souls of the dead of the dan. And addi^ tional Masses will be offered for any men who may die during that period. • 
But to get back to the Reunion. No notes were taken Friday nig^t, but bjr Sat­urday night yours truly had conquered A e pioblem of juggling a glass, pad, and peapil sufficiently to record the following aboot what many of the reunionists are dnog to. wile away the hours betwreen 8 to 5 dailjr: 
BOB ROGERS sdb insanace for the Joe. A. Kogen Go. in St. KuiL . . . ROG CtnOlINGS is comptnUer, widi seOing on the side, for &e incst-. meat bouse of SOs IGnton & Go. ia Chicago. .. . DR. BOB NENNO is doiag adftioaal mrii ia Ae hospital at the U. of ISnnesota. . . . MARK LIES is an accountant for M. Bohn & Go. ia. CUrago. . . . BUD DUDLEY sdls mil fmpa tat Hnla­delphia's Dndky Wall Faper Go. . . . BC» La MENSE is still star salmnan for Nortblud Bcaaty SuRitr out of Gicen Bay. 
ART KARTHEISER is in ooastracdcm wafc irith 
H. J. Kaithdser & Son in Chicago. . . . CLAIR LAMBERT u a Ford-dealer in Chicago^ . . JHL BRIAN HcLAUGHUN practices in ICimakae.. . . . JUSTIN UAGKIEWIGH is assistaat i of Standard Federal Sa\ing and Loan in . . . FRED GORE is another insoiaitce Baao d unih R. H. Goce in Chicago. FRANK PACHIN sells parKng house br-praducts. for A. L. bchiB ft Sons in Dayton. . . . JBt MADIGAN is an aooouat­ant with Eraser ft Corbet's Chicago office. . . 
BOB BROWNING is installing bis legal shia|^ ia Batle Cieefc. . . . BOB McCAFFERTY tnvch around Cinrinnati for Wdister Kamp ftiatias CB. .. . FRED CHRISTMAN with bis hrolher otiaa the General Office Supply Co. in Appietoa WB. . . . BOB TDOfERMAN gets bis pay bom Tokdo's Superior Marine Supply. . . . BOB HERRINGTON is with Dow Chemical in Midbnd, Mid. .. . BILL McCAUGHEY beads the Chicago Wood PiCog Co. . . . JACK WAHL is sales wiaagrr far Wahl Distribtttiiv Co., fc»~n;ng Ikjoor aad. beer. . . . JACK TALLETT is now a member a( Iha law finn of Knapp, Gushing, Heishheiser aad Stevenson in Chicago. 
JACK BEHR teaches music ia oeatial New York. . . . CHUCK GOLDEN is compleiiag law at Notre Dame and editing the Vetville newspaper. . . . TOM FINUCANE is with HasUas ft Sdb, Kansas City office. . . . LEE RAYMOND is a stock broker with Dand A. Noyes ft Co. ia Oa­cago. . . . JACK WIGGINS sells chenucab far the Fhilip A. Hunt Co. in fSncrnnati. . . . Q. STURM is opening.' bis o%vn accounting fina in Chicago. 
FRANK EBNER is a hwyer in the Barinm Tower in Detn^t. . . . GUS BUKKE is vice pccsi­dent of the August Burke Roa6ng Co. in CU­cago. . . . WALT KRAWIEC is a Chicago lawyer. . . . BOB KUIFERS is a partner of Borhe, Kuipen and Mahoney, Inc. advertising reptcsenta^tives in Chiogo. . . . AL OLIVER headi bn owm radio equipment finn called Pilgrim (fistrifantiag Co. . . . BLAIR McGOWAN just, namd to Detroit to handle Mirhipn for the Anaconda IHm and Cable Co. 
REGGIE FLYNN is in Ford Motor's hoaa office with parts and service. . . . DR. GECNtGE REBERDY is taking a vacation beiace begjang some additional special tnimng.'. . . DON MlIJiKR. is an attorney in San Franosoo. ^ . . BILL MID>' DENDORF is aaother investment baaker with Ms father in Lexiagton. . . . HARRY WRIGHT coaches Aquinas Hi^ in BuSalo, lAidk pbyi ba­foce 25,000 every game. . . . WALT JONES ii aa attorney in Chicago. . . . CHUCK (St. Loam) MURPHY is repairing beer cask* in theandwcst area—the other CHUCK MURHIY is startiag law 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
practice—and I'm still selling securities and com­modities for Merrill L>Tich, Pierce, Fenner & Beane in Detroit. 
So much for the fellows that did show up. But there were many who weren't able to that sent in cards to PETE MORITZ with news. And those that haven't mailed them as yet still can. They'll be forM-ardcd to the column. 
The cards that did arrive proWded the following 'quotes,' mostly beginning w-ith *Dear Pete:' ED CLE.ARY was graduating from the General Electric Co. advanced engineering course. . . . JACK RIEDL'S in Singapore until 1950 with Goodyear Rubber. . . . JACK REIS was getting married to Miss Margart Hurley in Indianapolis on June 3. . . XORMAX- V.-\NSILE is studying for the priesthood at the Augusiinlan College. 3900 }fa\cnvood Road, Washington, D. C. - . . JIM BYRNE was in JOHX ANHUT'S wedding party June 5. . . . DR. JACK REDMOND was in second year of residencj* in pathology* and quite busy. . . . JOE TRACY sa\-s he's a struggling law student. 
BOB B.-\UCHMAX is working at his fathers business in Idaho, married and has a daughter. So sa>'s D.AVE D.ALY. who told nothing about him­self. . . . DUD SMITH is sales manager of Geo. 
S. Tliompson Corp. in Pasadena but is prouder of his nine-months old son, DK III. . . . CARL COCO manages Coco's shoe store in Lake Charles. La. . . . ED XE.AGLE graduates from Rutgers Law this June. . . . JOHN DUNLA\^* lives in Riverdale, 
N. Y., edits magazine *'Post Exchange" and does free lance writing, has daughter Denise. . . . FRED HOTH writes he, IRV SH.AFFNER and DENNIS DINEEN are with general laboratories of US Rubber in Passaic, N. J. Been married since March, 1943, and now brags of two daughters and a son. . . . BILL WELSH was stuck with a long semester in medical school. A son born last September is alreadv engaged to CHUCK MURPHY'S daughter. 
ERNIE ZIMMER works for Appraisal Engineering Co. in Cincinnati. . . . REV. KEVIN 0'DOHERT\' sa>-s DOC D.AN BOYLE has joined the siafT at Gre>-stone Park, N, J., leaving South Jersey for study in ps>chiatr>'. . . JACK WOOD'S stud>-ing law at Georgetown. . . . ED CALL.-\H.AN was an usher for BOLEY DA.NCEWICZ that weekend, othen%ise sells real estate around Boston. . . . JOHN SCHERER was married in .April and has seen FRED SPECKT, FRED DEWES and DO.V HALLER lately. . . . JACK DENNEY'S connected with .Air .Associates, Inc., in Peierboro, N. J. 
BOB P.ADESKY also boasts of a daughter, two years old in July, and he works in La Crosse. ... . FR.ANK H.ALEY gives a new address and sa>-s he's married with a big son. . . . Los Angeles School of Optometry- claims LOUIS CROLLARD. . . . KEVIN O'TOOLE married Rose Mary Quigley of Chicago on April 3. . . . FRED G. CHRISTMAN went to the U. of Tennessee that weekend to see his brother get a Master's degree, . . . JIM MURPHY mentions James Patrick Murphy has been around since Nov. 4, 19+7. . . . Krochler Furniture Mfg. Co. lists DAN HOLWELL as a works man­agement trainee, and U. of Chicago also sees him nights. . . . COACH BOB CORRIGAN\ is baseball coach and Spanish instructor at St. Francos College, Lorctto, Pa. Married Anne McCarthy last July 5. 

BILL HERZOG saw TON^Y M.ALONEY of Chi­cago FBI and JOHN G.ARCEAU and RENGO PES.AVENTO who are both fathers twice while visiting Chicago in April. . . . DON HELTZEL helped on reunion committee but has to stay home for final last minute work before marr^'ing Elizabeth Ginocchio in Little Rock, June 19. . . . JOHN DONOVAN'S mother filled out his card, saying he's in Madras, India, with the National Carbon Co. until 1950 as manager of branch office. . . . JOE GIBBONS saw BILL FISHER on Fifth A\-e., New York City, but lost him in crowd. . . .CHUCK DEIBEL wants to hear from BOB GILLETTE— same from CHUCK OXE.ARY about BILL DIL­LON. 
CORN*Y CONLEY made the old-timer's game at Notre Dame. . . . BILL R.ANDOLPH'S mother filled his card out, sa\-ing he's teaching math in Richmond, Calif,, public school. . . . REV. JERRY HE.ALY. O.S.B., is teaching and coaching in Canon Citv, Colo., stayed with W.ALLY ZIEMBA on visit to N.D. last summer, . . .TOM HENNEV at U. of Wisconsin ^ledical School, has had a daughter since May 13 and sees HA.VS HELLANT), BILL JOHNSON, JOE KEENAN, JOHN RICHARDS. '44 often. . . . GENE FEHLIG sa>^ he's building a home and to warn all women that OLLIE HUN­TER'S bought a new Mercur>' convertible and is heading for Florida. 
LEO BLATZ has a four-year-old child and ^-orks for Standard Oil Development Co. on refining product research. . . . BOB ^LARTIN moved to Long Beach, Long Island, after getting married April 10, . . . JERRY SWEENEY just wrote in large letters *three little girls!'. . . . WARD ME­NARD sa>-s he and FRED ENGLEHART work for National Carbon In Vermont, . . . BOB MURPHY %*x:& CAROL KLOTZ Avho is also at Northrop Air­craft in CaliL . . . PAT 'B.ATHLESS' GROGAN was bus>* with Cornell Law school exams. 
DR, DICK ^fURRAY Is a lieutenant (jg) USNR. . . . JULLAN MICHEL has wedding plans for -Aug. 21 in the Bronx. The girl is Gerry Kennedy. . . . JOHN McHALE Is now assistant to Red Rolfe, manager of the Detroit Tigers farm s>'stem. . . . GEORGE HUTH, agent for Standard Oil In Mis­sissippi, was married In June, 1945, and has a daughter, -\farcia. . . . DR. KEITH EPPERSON'S mother reports he is flight surgeon In Japan with the 613th squadron. . . . 
JIM FINN reports son, Jimmy, born May, 1947. Jim, Sr., is an accountant with Texas Co. . . . R.AY SCHOONHOVEN was off job hunting in Northwest countr>- during reunion. Reports daughter Marie Kathleen 3% years and son Ray, Jr., 15 montlis. Graduated from Northuestern Law in Aug. . . . Z.ANE S.ANDOM is managing .American Express office in Heidcberg, Germanv. , . . GEORGE KELLY saw HARRY McKNIGHT at George's sister's wedding recently. . . . JACK DUGGAN kept home by wedding plans for June 12 with Margery Ann Donahue of Pittsburg. 
KEN GEMPEL will start third year as assistant coach at Bendlc High In Flint, Mich. Has daughter 2'/2 >^ni old. . , . FRED ENGLEHART speaks for himself now, saving he's to raarr>' Miss Lois Froe­lick, June 14. 
BOB OVERMEYER reports his marriage to Ethel­reda M. Me>-er in Mount Vernon, Ohio on May 
12. . . . BOB RENSBERGER was busy taking his Beloit High School's golf team to the state tourna­ment. . . . BILL MEYER living in Richmond, Va., transfering as contracting engineer for the .Automatic Sprinkler Corp. of America. . , . Others that didn't show but sent c^ards with regrets and hello's are: DICK CORNWELL, DICK LINDROTH, JOHN CONDIDINE, JOE TRILLING, BROTHER ALARI­US, C.S.C, DICK GULLING, JOE F.ARWELL, NICK SUTTON, JOE FAGG.AN, TOM FARM­ER, JIM MAKER, H.ARRY FLORENCE, BOB CARVER, JOHN DUNN, DICK POWERS, DICK PADESKY, BILL FORD, JACK HICKEY, BRO­THER M.ALCHUS, C.S.C, HARRY KELSEY, JOHN O'TOOLE, DICK KISGEN, CAROL KLOTZ, BILL OLVANY, JIM FAGAN, TOM ATKINS, JIM MURPHY, DAN DeVRIES, BER­NIE SCHROECK, TOM MILLER. BOB VICARS, JOHN WIETHOFF, BILL McGOWA.N. 
Here's some news of some of those fellows who said they were fx)ming and who didn't, or who did and I failed to get all the news from: GERRY FEENEY and GEORGE STRATIGOS set up the law firm of Feeney & Stratigos in South Bend after graduation kist June. . . - J.ACK BREHMER has own electrical crontracting business in South Bend. . . . WALT ZIEMBA is stiU coaching N. D. , . . JOE DUQUETTE is production engineer at Erie Resistor, married with three children. . . . FRED DEWES is assistant to secretary- of Hercules Body Co., married Miss Virginia Heitzman, June, 1947. 
FRANK CONFORTI provides part of the m>-ster>' of what hapcned to the New York gang that wrote they ivere coming. . , . J.ACK EDWARDS is en­gaged to Miss Wilifred Ann Beattie of Pittsburgh, a \-er>- prety girl he arranged a date for me with the Pitt game weekend last fall. . . . CHUCK MUR­PHY'S daughter was born April 16. . . . DICK T.ARARA got another degree at graduation. . . . RALPH VINCIGUERR.A Is engaged to be married and works for Goodyear Tire and Rubber In Store planning and display lab. , . , CHARLIE WADE was married in South Bend, June 7. . . . 
JIM KELLY dropped in on FR.ANK KAISER and hoisted a few on a return trip from Detroit. . . - EDDIE DORE'S mother wrote he was tr>ing to get uma off horn the Na\->' to make the re­union. . . . 
BOB TOWNER is on the South Bend **Tribune" sports desk. . . . BILL KRESOCK was separated from Army Med Corps around June 7 and evidently c:ouldn't arrange to make it as planned. , . . NLARK PFALLER was kept, away, probably by his month old son, Mark R. II. . . . BOB RIH.M married Miss Stella Cliche, November 3, 1945, and has a son, Carl Robert, born February-, 1947. Bob's in wholesale and retail meat packing. . , . First of month was too busy for accountant STEVE ENSNER. 
The Reunion Committee has asked me to express their thanks to all those who sent in cards, thereby simplifying the making of arrangements, and especially those who showed up and made 'Operation Reunion' the huge success it was. 
That about ends the personal news for this issue. And this issue ends my handling of this column. I've thoroughly enjoyed the time I've had it but believe it's better to turn it over to someone else now. Five years is a long time and eventually one man's style gets stale and bores everybody, including himself. 
So I'm signing off with this issue. That famous manager of the football team and excellent writer J.-VCK WIGGINS is taking over. He's down Cincinnati way now and 
This happy quintet includes those who ran the 1943 reunion. Left to right. Jack will do his best to cover the coast-to-coast Tallett, Fred Christmon, Herb Melton. Ed Boney and Pete Moritz running story of the class from there. Give 
Volume 26, No. 4, July-Aug., 1948 
^ SPOTLIGHT ALUMNVS 
FBANCIS JL FINK, '30 

Francis A. "Bill" Fink, '30, was one of seven individuals to whom the Family Catholic Action Award was presented on March 8 by the Family Life Bureau of the National Catholic Welfare Conference. The awards are given annually to persons who have particularly distinguished themselves in helping to develop a Catholic literature on marriage and the family. 
The presentation of the awards was made by the Most Reverend Peter W. Barthol­ome, D.D., Coadjutor Bishop of St. Cloud and Episcopal Moderator of the Family Life Bureau, at the annual meeting of the Na­tional Catholic Conference on Family Life in Hartford, Conn. 
Bill, editor of the popular Family Digest, is also managing editor of Our Sun­day Visitor, which boasts the widest circula­tion of any Catholic paper in the world, and business manager of the clergy maga­zine. The Priest. 
He married the former Helen Hartman in 1931. The parents of six living children, they reside in Huntington, Ind. 
him all the help possible as writing the col­umn takes a good deal of time and it's ten times as difficult when no one contributes any news. 
Thanks again to all those who have sent me news and the very best of everything to everyone. 
Following is die list of 1943 men who 'registered somewhere on the campus over the reunion week­end: 
Atwater, Julian G.; Barry, Norman "Jadt"; Behr, John L.; Bennett, John C , Dr.; Brehmer, Jack; Browning, Bob; Burke, Augustus; Christman, Fred W.; ChrisUnan, Wallace P.; Collins, Robert W.; Costello, Bill; Cummings, Roger S.; Degenhart, 
R. W.; DeVries, Daniel A.; Dewes, Fred G.; Dudley, Bud; Dunlay, Robert J.; Ebner, Frank G.; ^^ Edwards, John R., Jr.; Feeney, F. Gerard; Finnigan, 
'| B John E.; Finucane, Thomas F.; Fisher, John; Fitz. Patrick, Frank B. 
Flynn, Raymond R.; Fogarty, John; Frelague, WilUam; Girolami, Anthony G.; Godfrey, Michael; Godfrey, James; Golden, Chuck; Gore, Frederick P.; Grady, Walter; Green, Neil; HaU, R. A.; HaDer, Don; Hanrahan, Edward; Heiser, Dick; Herring­ton, Robert W.; Hillebrand, Joseph; Johnson, Corne­lius; Jones, Walter; Kaiser, Frank W.; Kartheiser, Arthur T.; Kelly, J. L.; Kelsey, Donald; Klein, Daniel; Kotz, Don; Kralovec, Charles; Krawiec, Walter F.; Kuipers, Robert W.; Lambert, Chiir; LeMense, Robert D.; Lewis, Leo J.; Lies, Mark J.; Linck, Leo L. 
^fackiewich, Justin, Jr.; Mad'gan, Jim; Marcin, Joe; ^fassullo, Mario D.; Masters, Albert; McCaf­ferty, James R.; McCaughey, William; McGowtan, Blair; McGrath, John A.; McLaughlin, Dr. Brian C ; McNulty, John P.; Melton, Herbert; Midden­dorf. Bill; Miller, Donald; Moritz, Peter F.; Muell­man, Robert G.; Murphy, Charles H.; Murphy, Charles. 
Murray, Edward N.; Murray, Stanford E.; Mur­rin, William; Naegele, Fred S.; Nenno, Dr. Robert P.; O'Brien, Rev. Richard; O'Brien, W. K.; Oliver, A. R., Jr.; O'Mealia, Harry, Jr.; Pachin, Frank; Perry, Thomas W.; Rademaker, J. T.; I^l-mond, Leo; Rcale, Robert J.; Reberdy, Dr. George K.; Rihm, Robert C. 
Rogers, Robert M.; Roney, Edward C , Jr.; Ryan, John; St, George, George; Scherer, John O.; Schindler, John, Jr.; Shea, Geiatd; Smith, Jerry; Spagnuolo, Louis J.; Stewart, Daniel; Stiatigos, George; Stncker, William; Sturm, Quentin C ; Sullivan, Leigh; Sweeney, Thomas M.; Tallett, John H.; Tarara, Richard W. 
Timmcrman, Bob; Troup, John E., Jr.; Unga­shick. Bill; Uu, Dr. John P.; Volberding, Thomas R.; Wade, Charles; Wahl, John; Walsh, Jack; Walsh, James; Walsh, John; Walsh, William F., Jr.; Wanta, Steve; Warner, J. A., Jr.; Wamick, William J.; Warren, Jack; Wendt, George R.; Wiggins, John C ; Wright, Harry C ; Ziemer, Walter. 
Also present were all the '48 grads who started in 1939 and others who were completing their semester. 
ROBERT F. M.\RTIN is an engineering market analyst for the Combustion Engi­neering Co., 200 Madison Ave., New York, 
N.Y. CYRINES H. SINGER is in the grain accounting department of the Quaker Oats Co., St. Joseph 1, Mo. JEROME J. GROEBNER is a research chemist with Standard Oil Co., Whiting, Ind. 
DONALD B. GUY is plant superintend­ent of a paper company in Los Angeles. CHARLES I. BLOMER, who was with Consolidated Vultee as a stress analyst, is now a project engineer for the Civil Aero­nautics Administration, First Region. 
JACK FISHER, '41, reports that he re­cently saw PAUL DEERY, who is at Eli Lilly Drug Co., Indianapolis. DANIEL C. STEWART is employed by the Interna­tional Harvester Co., in Melrose Park, 111. 
GEORGE J. KELLY is now living at 2879 S. Buchanan St., Apartment A-1, Ar­lington, Va. LOUIS J. CROLLARD is a student at the Los Angeles School of Op­tometry. BILL NICHOLSON has taken a sales job with Lever Brothers, soap manu­facturers, and is currently working in De­troit. 
1944 
John A. Lynch, 15724 Granville Rd., Detroit 23, Mich. 

FATHER JOE HAYDEN was ordained on May 22 at the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception in Camden, N. J. He. celebrated his first Solemn Afass on May 23 at St. Aloysius Church, Jersey City, which was followed by a reception in the school auditorium. FATHER CHARLES CORCORAN, C.S.C., a member of the faculty of Holy Cica Col­lege at Catholic University, m s tlie prcadwr at Father Haydeo's fint Blass. He studied at St. Mary's Srminary, Baltimore, Md. 
FATHER IDE HATKN 

JOHN D. NABER is representing Gardner F. Dalton & Co. of Milwaukee, dealen in irnxstment securities, at a newly opened office in Green Bay, Wis., at 390 Minaban Bldg. 
DR. JOHN E. BYRNE and DR. wn.LIAM J. Gn.LESPIE received medical degrees from St. Louis University on June 1. WILLIAM B. LAWLESS, Jr., is practicing law at 1330 Marine Trust Bldg., Buffalo, N. Y. WILLLUI R. GWINN is doing graduate work at Notr« Dame. 
EDWARD J. KEELAN is assistant treasurer of the Massasoit Racing Association, 25 Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass. 
DANIEL F. STEVENS is a salesman in the typewriting division of Underwood Corp. He is residing at 30 Lincoln Ave., Hastings-on-Hudson, 
N. V. 
ARTHUR C. LEY is with Chance-Vought in the Aerodynamics Group at Stratford, Coim. 
ROBERT J. KROTH, who was an assistant engi­neer with North American Aviation, is now a sales engineer for Askania Regulator Co., Chicago. 
JOHN B. KANE, who made liis Erst mark in the aviation world as a draftsman and loftsman with tlie Acronca Corp., is now a design engineer and lay­out draftsman with Chance-Vought. 
ROBERT E. - GARDNER, formerly an aero­dynamist for Curtiss-Wrght Research Laboratories, is now with the Ford Motor Co., Buffalo, N. Y. 
DANIEL E. WATERBURY is an engineer for the Utica Drop Forge Co. at Utica, N. Y. ROBERT 
J. BURKE is a plywood salesman for the Honer­kamp Co. of New York City. 
19 45 

James W. SchacfFcr, 7516 N. Hoyne Ave., Chicago 45, 111. 
JOSEPH A. KELLY is an aeronautical ei^neer with Goodyear Aircraft. His address is 789 Stadel­man A\'e., Akron 2, Ohio. 
FRANCIS X. COURTNEY is the first student to study in Japan under the G.I. BUI, and also the first service man to remun in Japan for woric out­side of the occupation. He has entered the Don Bosco Seminary at Itabashi, Tokyo, to study for the priesthood with the intention of remainii^ in Japan as a missionary. While serving in Japan for the past year and a half %rith the Chaplain's Section of Headquarters and Sernce Group, GHQ, he came ia contact with many priests who first suggested and later made it possible for him to undertake mission­ary work. 
HENRY A. HOOVER, Jr., is attending Harvard. WILLIAM S. BEVINGTON, after service in the 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

'  !  "  •  .  '  #  (  *  '  ,  
j(f  f^  
^i  ^  .^-fM  

THE '23 BEUNIONEEBS ON THE STEPS OF THE LIBRABY 
FIRST ROW: left to right. John A. Brlsy, George A. Patterson, Ed. J. FIFTH ROW: R. J. Nasch, H. P. Valker, Ivan C. Sharp, Roger Kiley. Raub, Martin H. Brcnnan. Carl T. Fisch=r, Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Albert Picks, Jr., Michael F. Seyfrit, W. E. Shea, Bruce J. Holmberg,. president. Patrick C. Doran. Leslie F. Logan. Frank T. Fitzsimmons, Edward SIXTH ROW: Joseph W. Nyikos, Thomas F. Leahy, E. S. R>^n, E. P. 
W. Gould. R. E. Cordray, Edu-ard D. Kelly, ^L J. Dac>-. Kreimer. W. J. Furey, George Wack, Frank S. Doriot, J. F. Kennedy. 
SEVENTH ROW: John G. Byrne, Paul Castncr, Rev. John Reddington, C.S.C, E. Merlin Rolwing. John C. Norton, Francis H. Neilzel, Anthony SECOND ROW: Daniel Culhane and Thomas J. Lee. 
THIRD ROW: Rev. "Frank Caranaugh, C.S.C, dean of the Arts and Jackson, James R. Martin, Henr>' Barnhart. 
Letters College, Art Diedrich. Frank J. Galvin, Joe Donaldson, C>TiI W. 
EIGHTH ROW: Louis A. de Smct, Thomas Plouff, Henr>- J. Lauerman, Xcff. C. J. Harlman. Yrancxs X. Disney, John >L Montague, Lyle E. Miller, John M. Rohrliach, Frank Wallace. 
Walter F. Rauber, George A. Uhlmcyer, Walter J. Kennedy, Louis W. 
NINTH ROW: Daniel D. Lynch, J. P. Hemieberr>-, Joseph Casasanta, Bruggner Stanley J. Bradbury, Comic J. Pfeiffer. 
FOURTH ROW: Clifford B. Ward. Charics Martin. Jeffrey V. Powers, Registered at the reunion but not in photograph: F. J. Breen, Joha C. Emery Toih, John P. Chapla. William T. Fitzgerald, William L. Voss, Jr., Cochrane, Rev. John E. Duffy, Anthony Gorman, Edu-ard J. Kelly. Brother William H. Haskins. Rev. J. M. Brannigan, C.S.C, John W. Niemiec, William Mang, CS.C, George J. O'Grady, Walter I. Rauh, J. T. Riley, 
Vincent J. Brown, James P. Wilcox. 
Nav>' as a squadron engineering officer, entered the employ of McDonnell Aircraft Co. as assistant stress analj-st. He is presently studx-ing for an ad\*anced degree at St. Ambrose College, Davenport, la. 
1946 
EDMUND V. MARSHALL is with Chance-Vought aircraft company at Batavia, N. Y. FR.-\NK 
J. SCHIRACK is studying medicine at Western Reser\'e Medical School, Cleveland. 
Here is some news about the doctors, pri^ent and future, of the class: DR. EDMUND A. ^L•^SSULO is practicing in Youngstown. Ohio, at 1717 Belmont A\-e. DR. DAVID J. MASSA is at the U.S. Marine Hospital at Galveston, Tex. DR. WILLL\M J. FANIZZI received his degree from Georgeiown Medical School on June 14, while b->ih GEORGE 
V. BRANIGAN and FR.ANK J. SCHIRACK are in medical school, the latter at Western Reier^-e, Cleveland. 
DR. ROBERT T. TERRY also received his medical degree in June, from St Louis Umversiiv, as did DR. ROBERT E. MACK. DR. ROBERT 
F. DRESSEL. and DR. JOHN T. OLIVE. DR. J.AMES CASSIDY received his medical degrei last March and began his internship at County Hospital, Milwaukee, on July I. 
CHARLES C TROHA deserted the engineering profession to join his brother as a mortician. 
Both JAMES E. BLOCHER and DAVID A. NORTON are doing graduate work at the Univer­sity of Washington. 
RONALD J. KNAPP is employed as an acro­dj-namidst in North American .Aircraft Co.'s aero­ph>-sics laborator>-. CECIL G. ^L\RTIN is with the 

John B. Stephan, James F. Young. 
V. M.ARSHALL, received an ad\-anced degree from Purdue in June. VrrO JOHN FANIZZI received an advanced degree from Georgetown University on June 14. 
FREDERICK R. FUND is in the production department of the La Crosse Rubber Mill Co. His home address is 298 S. I5th St., La Crosse» Wis. 
WADE S. PARKS is teaching at the Uni\-ersity of Oregon, Eugene, Ore. 
I 947 
J. D. Usina, 219 S. Scott St., • South Bend, Ind. 

WALTER F. DON.NELLY is empIo>-cd as an accountant and statistician by the European Gen­eral Reinsurance Co. He is living at 152 Home Ave., Rutherford, N. J. 
J.\MES M. COOGAN, 125 Mann St., Malxern, Ark., is manager of the Coogan 0131*61 Company. JOSEPH M. CZAPOWSKI, a machine designer, is liring at 1108 S. 2nd St., Milwaukee 4, Wis. 
JIM PARIS is employed as a designer in the pilotless aircraft group of Chance-Vought in Con­necticut. It is reported that RICHARD H. PEARSE is associated with an air-cond'tioning firm in La-Crosse, Wis. 
LEONARD B. LUTZ is preparing for an a\-iation management by taking graduate work in business administration at the University of Michigan. LAW­RE,NCE A. REISTER is also doing graduate work at Michigan. 
GEORGE M. K.ALER is \%:th CDKolidate-VuItce Aircraft Corp., Fort Worth, Tex., in aerodynamics DR. LEO A. STRUTNER rccei\-ed his medical 
CAPT. CLINTON D. FIRESTON, JR., has a new address—Purchasing and Contracting, Stewart Field, Ncwburga, N. Y. 
JAMES T. HORGAN, who was attending Lucerne University in Switzerland, is now at the University Mediterranean. His address is Hotel Les Cicognes, Rue Maccarani (16), Nice, am, France. 
JOHN B. MEYERS received an adranced degree from Georgetown on June 14. HE.NRY A. SLAM­IN, JR., is now with Harri' B. Cohen, Advertising Co., Inc., One E. 57th St., New York 22. 
1948 

From HER.M.-\N ZITT in office of the Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Ind.: 
For the benefit of the *48 men who may not ha\-c received a copy of the May-June ALUMNUS I might say that this is the second edition of the '48 Class News. In the last issue I volunteered temporarily to gather all the dope and • bits of in­formation about the '48 class until we appoint a permanent class secrei2r>'. So fire into me all of your suggestions, votes, etc. Also please send in the following information which BILL DOOLEY will use for the Notre Dame Director^' which will be coming out in the near future: Full Name, Class, Htlc of Position, Business Address, Nature of Company's Business, Your Occupational Classifica­tion, and Residence Address. 
The class of 1948 wants to express its sympathy to the parents of TO M BUO.NO of Saugerties, N. Y., who would have graduated in June, whose body was found in the Calumet River in Chicago on April 13. The report of Dr. Karl Pfeiffer of the 
N.A.C.-\. Propulsion Lab at Cleveland, and KEN­University of Illinois shows that there was a sufficient 
degree from St. Louis Universit>' on June 1. 
NETH F. MERTEN is an aeronautical engineer quantity of sleep producing drug to have caused a
DON JACKSON, now in the A & P Tea Co. 

with N^.CA . in Hampton, Va. Ken is doing stupor but not death. Death resulted from drown­
executive training program at Buffalo, N. Y., says 
research work at the Langley Field Laboratories. ing. 
that it is an excellent position and plans to continue Another N. D. aeronautical graduate, EDMUND with A. & P. DON WEIBEL is working for Firestone it rr 
Volume 26, No. 4, July-Aug., 1948 
Eau Claire, Wis. STEVE PAVELA (just married on June 12) will coach at St. Mary's High in ^ Michigan City, Ind. LEO ZUCHOWSKY has been ^jjHV empIo>-ed by the Red Cross as director of first aid ^'"* water safety and accident prevention. GERRY i>' KERSCHEN is doubling up with coaching and 
teaching history at Garden Plain (Kansas) High School. DON DIEDERICH is taking grad work at Michigan and BILL RUSSELL at the Univer­sity of Pittsburgh. BOB LAUER has been ap­pointed senior director of the youth bureau in Oneida, N. Y. BOB NEWG.ARD is a salesman for the Newgard X-Ray Co. BERNIE POPHAM is interning at St. Joseph Hospital, LouisviUe, Ky. CLIFF WOOD is with Lever Bros, in Cambridge, Mass. JOHN CAHILL is in law school at Mar­quette. JOHN NOONAN is doing public relations work in Mcdford, Mass. BUSTER HILLER has been named head basketball and assistant football coach at St. John's College, Collegcville, Minn. JIM JOHNSON is at Tufts Medical School. JOE RENINGER is selling real estate in Benton Harbor, Mich. 
BOB LUTZ is a metallurgist with the Timken-Detroit Axle Co. in Detroit. TED MANY.\K is a Buick distributor in Detroit. NORM HEMMEL­GARN is the district manager for Club Aluminum Products in Chicago. DICK O'COXNELL is the business manager for O'Connell Motor Sales in Marshall, Minn. TOM FOLEY, WALT JONES, BILL PREKOWITZ, DON PATRICK, CHARLIE CAVANAUGH, and JOHN BUCZKOWSKI have passed their bar e.xams in Indiana. FRED FOWLER is a reporter for the Plaindcaler Publishing Co. in 
— St. James, Minn. 
# ^.^­
Address to the Alumni 



(Continued from Page IIJ 

I think that if we were to judge Notre Dame on the spiritual success of her gradu­ates, this institution would certainly rank among the great universities of the world. 
But if we are to e.xercise that leadership in the world, which we arc agreed the world so sorely needs, then we must look beyond the spiritual equipment of our graduates, beyond their power to reason well, to con­template wisely, to read intelligently, to converse interestingly. 
The graduates of Notre Dame must be equipped to compete for leadership with similar zest, similar skill, similar coaching, similar equipment, that combine to produce the football teams that have brought first 
j^ rank leadership to Notre Dame. 
Our law>'ers must be as able as they are honest, so that in the years ahead we will find them on the Supreme Court bench, the political rostrums of the Congress, the seats of the courts of international justice, and in other high posts of influence. 
Our scientists must know the methods of research that will open the doors of this world to men, as they know the well defined path to the doors of the next. Father Nieuwland and Father Zahm were no less great priests because they were great scientists. 
Our engineers must be competent to as­sume leadership in the great technical ad­vances of the world. Leadership comes to the man whose proficiency is evident in his profession. Usually it comes first as a result of this phase of his life. In proportion to hir ability to achieve this influence and posi­tion can he hope to exert the richer influ­
5^.>^ er.ces of character and morality with which 
[j^r he may be happily endowed. 
Perhaps most vivid in our minds is the opportunity that exists for moral leadership in the universal fields of communication — the press, the radio, the moving pictures, books and magazines, the stage, and, lately, television. But in these fields the tradition of technical excellence is so deeply en­trenched that our hope of a moral leader­ship depends almost entirely upon our train­ing of young people so demonstrably en­dowed with technical excellence that they cannot be denied. 
So we remind you that our objective is in a sense a dual one. We have our great spiritual mission, and we are richly endowed to carry it out. In fact we feel that we are succeeding admirably in this great purpose of Notre Dame through the edifying lives of our individual alumni. 
But in the social significance of this mis­sion, the extension of our religious influence into the creation of a leadership that will bring this rich heritage to the world, we are sorely in need of the physical facilities t(i permit the job to assume the proportions of the present challenge. 
We can ask you, as we have this year through the Foundation, to keep conscious of the things that are God's, but to render unto the Caesar of the material side of edu­cation the things that are Caesar's. 
After all, we can subscribe to the building up of our secular facilities with the inspira­tion of a spiritual stewardship. 
With your help, Notre Dame can go on to develop an academic power and an in­fluence on .\merican thought in proportion to its spiritual strength and its tremendous potentialities. 
Alumni Reunion 


(Continued from Page Three) 

day night was the climaxing feature of the Alumni Reunion. President Harry Hogan presided and introduced as the principal speakers Dean Clarence "Pat" Manion of the Law School and Father John Cav­anaugh. James E. Armstrong, alumni sec­rctarj-, gave a report covering the activities of the Alumni Association for the past year. Father Cavanaugh's impressive ad­dress, as well as the Armstrong report and the substance of Mr. Hogan's remarks, are printed elsewhere in this issue. 
Meanwhile on the Main Quadrangle the Band presented a concert at 6:30, and the Glee Club, led by Daniel Pedtke, gave a Saturday night concert. 
Most of the reunion classes had special Masses on Sunday morning in their re­spective residence halls (see the class news in this issue). Particularly impressive was High Mass offered for the Class of '28 in the Morrissey Hall chapel by Rev. James Gallagan, cs.c . Serving the Mass were Jim and Frank O'Toole, freshmen in the Uni­versity last year, who are the sons of the late Frank O'Toole, '28, and the first sons of '28 men to emt>ll at Notre Dame. Music for the Mass was provided by a '28 choir composed of former Glee Club members directed by Rev. Andrew Mulreany, cs:c., himself a former Glee Club man. . \^c e Carney, '28, played the organ. This fea­ture of the weekend — an iimovation in Notre Dame reunions — was.in charge <tf Frank Creadon, '28, a member of the Faul­ist Choir of Chicago. The singers had gathered at Frank's home in Riverside, HL, near Chicago, for one rehearsal, and had had another rehearsal at Notre Dame on Saturday afternoon, June 5. 
Sunday morning, it should be particular­ly noted, was rainy. For the second con­. sccutivc year, the academic procession firom 
.the Main Building to the Drill Hall, pre­ceding the Baccalaureate Mass, had to be emitted, as did the traditional procession to the flag pole for the raising of the 1948 flag following the Mass. But a capacity crowd offered the Holy Sacrifice with Most Rev. John F. Noll, bishop of Fort Wayne, and heard Most Rev. Richard J. Gushing, archbishop of Boston, deliver a brilliant baccalaureate sermon, the text of which is printed in full in this issue of the ALUMNUS. 
Sunday afternoon — and it was raining as hard as ever — saw for the first time a Commencement division of the graduating class at Notre Dame. Because of the size of the class and the limited seating capacity available, it was necessary to have two dif­ferent ceremonies for the awarding of de­grees, one at 1:30 and the second at 3:30. At the former, honorary degrees were awarded and degrees in courses were awarded in the Graduate School, the Col­lege of Arts and Letters, College of Science and College of Law. The 3:30 gathering saw the awarding of degrees in Engineering and in Commerce. 
Paul C. Hoffman, administrator of the Economic Cooperation Administration, gen­erously consented to give his Commence­ment address (printed in this issue) to both graduation groups. 
Archbishop Gushing, Mr. Hoffman and Dr. Roy J. Defarrari, secretary-general of Catholic University, Washington, D. C, .re­ceived honorary Doctor of Law degrees at the Commencement. The same degree was also awarded, posthumously, to the late William J. Corbett, Chicago, a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees until his death on May 26. Vincent J. Schaefer, Schenectady, N. Y., internationally distin­guished research chemist with General Elec­tric, received the honorary degree of Doctor of Science. 
And thus the weekend, except for the meeting of Notre Dame lawyers and the luncheon-meeting of the Monogram CIuB 
(about which you'll find separate stories elsewhere in this issue) and except for the faculty "at homes" and the Administration reception for seniors and their families, both of which have become such a pleasant fea­ture of the Commencement weekend. 
Monday morning the campus was quiet, almost deserted. But it wasn't lainiiig: 
2ii4ecio4u of Clubs and Their Presidents » » 
AKIZONA—PHOEMX—Robert Kendall, '31, 302 Mitchell Dr., Phoenix, Ariz. 
XnCSGN-Ted W. Witi, '29, Box 628 
ARKANSAS—Burt L. Roberts, '16, 1325 Lincoln Ave.. Little Rocic (secretary) 
CALIFORNIA—LOS ANGELES—Vernon E. Rici­ard, '24, 1620 X. Vista St., Hollj-wood 46, Calif. 
NORTHERN—William J. Yore, ex. '29, 627 Adams St.. .\lbany, Calif. 
SAN DIEGO—W. Albert Stewart. '36. 728 San Diego Tr. & Savings Bank Bldg. 
COLOItADO—DEN\'ER—Dr. Daniel G. Mon­ashan. '38. 440 William 
CONNECTICUT — CONNECTICDT VALLEY — William J. Rcid, '25, 7 May St., Hartford, Conn. 
NAUGATUCK VALLEY—D. Frank Mumane, 
•32, Summit Rd., Prospect. Conn. (Water­
bury area) SOUTHWESTERN-Frank S. McGec, '33, 51 Savoy St., Bridgeport 6 (Bridgeport area) 
DELAWARE—Arthur A. Baum, '36, 1310 Van Buren St.. Apt. S-C. ASIlmineton. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA — WASHINGTON— Thomas L. -McKcvitt, '32, 10,108 Big Rock, Rd., Silver Spring, Afar>-land. 
FLORIDA—George A. BrauUsam. '29. 538 N. E. o.'ith Terrace. Miami. Fla. 
FT. LAUDERDALE—Robert H. Gore. "SI. 
221 N.E. River Drive, Ft Lauderdale, na. 
GEORGIA—William H. Scliroder, Jr., '35, 162 Rumson Rd., .'\tlanta, Ga. 
ILLINOIS—CHICAGO—James R. Cronin. '35. 3962 Cottage Grove Ave. Chicago 15. HI. 
FOX VALLEY—William B. Chawgo, '31, 516 
Binder Sl.^ Aurora, 111. 
JOUET—Joseph V. Kirincieh, '33. 306 Ruby 
St. 
PEORIA—Donald P. Smith, '40, 436 Linn St. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY —Donald A. Hen­nessy, *37. Catholic Community High School. Sterling. 111. (Rockford-Dixon area) 
SPRINGFIELD —Nicholas C. Amrhein. '39. 
1623 S. Fourth St. 
INDIAN.4.—CALUJIET DISTRICT—Daniel D. LjTich, '23. 34 Midway Court. Hammond, Ind. 
E.ASTERX INDIANA-William F. Craig, '29, 
Station WLBQ, Muncic (Muncic area) 
FORT WAYNE—Bernard T. Kcams. '29. 903 
Pasadena Drive 
INDIANAPOLIS — G. Don Sullivan, e.^ '24, 
105 S. Meridian St., Room 430. 
.MICHIGAN CITY—Hugh L. Burns, '39, Stop 
18, Long Beach, Ind. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—Jerome J. Crowley, '31, 
315 LaMontc Terrace, South Bend, Ind. 
TRI-STATE (Ky., Ind. and III.)—Paul C. Thole, ex. '.15, Hulman BIdg., 1011, 4th & Syca­more, Ex-ansville 18, Ind. 
WABASH VALLEY —William J. Schrader, 
ex. '33. 824 North 10th St.. Lafayette, Ind. 
IOWA—DES JIOI.NES—George J. Pflanz, III, ex. '43, 604 Insurance Exchange BIdg.. Des Moines. 
DUBUQUE—Louis F. Fautsch, '35, 1045 S. 
Grandview, Dubuque, la. 
SIOUX CITY—Robert A. Manning. '36, 2719 
Nebraska St. (key Inan) 
TRI-Cl'nES—Alfred T. Erskine. Jr.. '37. 712 Grand Court. Davenport, Iowa. (Davenport-Rock Istand-Moltne area) 
KANSAS—EASTERN­
KENTUCKY—Charies G. Morrow, '38, 419 Mc-
Crcady Ave-, Louis\'ille 6, Kentucky, 
LOUISIANA—NEW ORLEANS—Jules K. de la Vergne, '38. 5811 Hurst 
NORTHERN—James R. Nowery, '29. P.O. 
Box 1545. Shreveport 94 (Shreveport area) 

MARYLAND—BALTIMORE—Dr. Roy O. Sehoiz. "35, 1529 Pentridge Road. Baltimore 12. 
MASSACHUSETTS—BOSTON—John V. Horan, '30, Costello. Moran & Mahan. 31 State St., Boston 9. Mass. 
MICHIGAN—BERRIEN COUNTY — William H. Downey, '28. 60 N. St. Joseph Ave., Niles (Niles-St. Joseph-Benton Harbor area) 
BLUE WATER DISTRICT—William L. Wil­son. '42. P.O. Box 295. Port Huron (Fort Huron area) 
CENTRAL—Dr. Edgar J. Hermes. "18. 828 
N. Logan Su. Lansing (Lansing area) 
DETROIT—Adclbcrt C. Baur, Jr., '36, 17365 Parkside, Detroit 21, Mich. 
GR-4ND RAPIDS and WESTERN MICHI­GAN—Robert N. Alt, ex. '29, 901 Plymouth Rd., S.E.. Grand Rapids. Mich. 
HIAWATHALAND—Matt N. Smith, ex. '38, Escanaba Natl. Bk.. Escanabti. Mich. 
IRON RANGE—Robert T. O'Callagh-in, ex. '45, 635 McLeod Ave., Ironwood, Mich. 
JACKSON—Lyman H. Hill, Jr., 5205 U. S. 127 S. 
SAGINAW VALLEY —Joseph C. Goddeyne, '11, 22 ;5 Carrol Rd.. Bay City. Mich. (Sagi­naw area) 
RHNNESOTA-Paul H. Castncr. '23, 1305 W. Ar­lington Ave:, St. Paul 4, Minn. (Twin Cities Area) 
»nSSOUKI—ICANSAS CITY (Mo, and Kans.)— Joseph M. Van Dyke. ex. '44. 4642 Pennsyl­vania. Kansas City 2. Mo. 
ST. LOUIS—Fred S. McNeill, '36, 4610 Pen­
rose, St. Louis, Mo. 
MONTANA—Bernard Grainey, '43, 801 12th Ave.. Helena. 

NEW JERSEY—CENTRAL —Michael J. Balog. '34. 316 Watson Ave.. Perth Amboy (Perth Amboy area) 
NEW JERSEY—George J. Melinkovich. '35, 
27 Leo Place, Newark (Newark area) 

NEW YORK-BUFFALO—John L. Hoclscher. '42. 174 Crosby Bh-d., Eggertsville. N. Y. CAPITAL DISTRICT — James J. Drislane. '38. 75 State St.. Albany. N. Y. 
CENTRAL—John E. McAuliffe, '39, 941 TurUe 
St., Syracuse 8, N. Y. 
MOHAWK VALLEY—Dr. Francis A. Marino, 
'37, 903 Mohawk St., Utica, N. Y. 
NEW YORK CITY—John A. Hoyt. Jr.. '33. 
Gillespie & O'Ckinnor. 20 Vesey St.. New York 
7. N. Y. 
NORTHERN—Judge Cornelius J. Carey. '30, 
12 Park St , Malone (Malone area) 
ROCHESTER—^Villiam R. Bell. '26. 95 Ames 
St 
SCHENECTADY—John F. Hurley, '37, 83 
Western Parkway. Schenectady. 
TRIPLE CITIES—James H. Hogan. '34. 42 Oak St.. Binghamton. N. Y. (Binghamton-Johnson (^ty area) 

OHIO—AKRON —Paul A. Bertsch. '29. 763 S. High. 
CANTON—William H. Belden. '36. 305 22nd 
St, N.W. 
CE.VTRAL—Dr. Thomas SI. Hughes, '38, 481 
£. Town St., Columbus 15, Ohio. 
CINCINNATI—Robert J. Leonard, '41, 2504 
Carcw Tower, Cincinnati, Ohio. 
CLEVELAND —Hugh M. O'Neill, '17, 544 
Terminal Tower 
DAYTON—E. William Hoyne, '42, 205 Salera 
Avenue 
HAMILTON—Judge Harry F. Walsh. '31. 
Municipal Court 
LIMA—George Shanahan. '17, 432 W, Main S t 
OHIO VALLEY—William J. Yaeger. '42.156 S, Park St„ Wheeling, W. Va. (Bellaire-Wheeling area) 
SANDUSKY—Alfred A. Schnurr. Jr.. '23. 
So. Columbus Ave . Sandusky, Q. 
TIFFIN—Fred J. Wagner. '29. 84"/2 S. Wash­
ington S t TOLEDO^Iohn B. Malone. '42. 4805 Summit % St . Toledo. Ohio . 
YOUNGSTOWN—CHarence T. Sheehan. '40. 
The "Vindicator." 

OKLAHO»IA—TULS.4—Carl J. Senger, '37, 1329 North Boston, Tulsa 6, Okla. 
OKLAHOMA CITY—Haskell Askew. '31. 1000 
Pcrrine BIdg.. Oklahoma City. Okla. 

OREGON—Robert G. Molin. '40. 316 W. Alder St , Portlitnd 
PENNSYLVANIA—EASTERN—Leo K. Mclntyre, '28, 3004 Turner St , Allcntown (Allentown-Bethlehem area) 
ERIHJ—Joseph C. Barber, '36, 705 Ariel BIdg. 
HARRISBURG—Edirard R. Eckcnrode, Jr., '44, 
2929 North 2nd St, Harrisburs, Pa. 
HONONGAHELA VALLEY — Edward J. Dean, '28. 11 Linden Ave.. Monessen. Pa. (Monessen area) 
PHILADELPHIA—John H. Neeson, Jr., '35, 
37 Highland Ave. Cynwyd, Pa. 
SCRANTON—Louis J. Finske, '19. Gravel 
Pond No. 2, Clarks Summit. Pa. 
WESTERN—J. Vincent Burke, Jr., '33, HOC 
Peoples Bank BIdg., Pittsburgh 22, Pa. 
WILKES-BARRE—Edu-ard J. Rou-an, '35, 34 
W. North St., Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
^VILLIAMSPORT—Frank C Hayes, '27, 820 fl Erie Ave, Renovo, Pa. '•^l 

RHODE ISLAND and S. E. SIASSACHUSETTS— ' 
J. Clement Grimes, ex. '29, 384 River Ave., Providence, R. I. 

TENNESSEE—MEMPHIS—Phil M. Canalc, Jr., '40, 1325 Commerce Title BIdg., Memphis 3, Tenn. 
NASHVILLE—W. Kennedy Jones. '30. P.O. 
Box 773 

TEXAS—DALL,\S—Edmond R. Haggar, '38, 6712 Lakewood Blvd., Dallas, Tex. 
HOUSTON—Thomas A. Slandish, '35, 2106 
Swift, Houston 5, Tex. 
SAN ANTONIO—Leonard M. Hess. '25. 201 
Stanford Dr. 

JTAH-^ack W. Gallivan. '37. 1017 Kearns Bide.. Salt Lake City 
•IRGINIA—Dr. Charles R. Riley. '39. 3508 Sem­inary Ave.. Richmond 22. 
7ASHINGTON—WESTERN—John P. English, '33, 1606/: J5lh Ave., Seattle, Wash. 
WEST VIRGINIA—William J. Kenney. '34. 714 Lee St . Charleston. 
WISCONSIN—GREEN BAY—Harold L. Londo, t ­'24. Sup't, Green Bay Water Dept 
FOX RIVER VALLEY—William H. Ficwcger, 
'36, 419 Na>-mut St., Mcnasha, Wis. 
LA CROSSE—Frederick R. Funk, '46, 208 
South 15th St,, La Crosse, Wis, 
MILWAUKEE—Donald T, Gottschalk, ex. '41, 
213 W. Wisconsin Ave., Milu'aukec 3, Wisconsin. 
SOUTH CENTRAL —John W. Roach. '25. 
2115 Van Hise Ave . Madison (Madison area) 

FOREIGN CLUBS 
BENGAL. INDIA—Rev. John W. Kane, '24. 
(key man) Dacca, East Bengal. 
CUBA—Christopher C. Fitzgerald, '94 (key 
man). La Metropolitana (711), Habana. 
HAWAII—William K. Hanifin, '35. 1635 
Clark Street, Honolulu. 
SIANILA—^Anthony F. Gonzales, '25 (key man). The Insular Life Assurance Co., Ltd., Insular Life BIdg. 
PANAMA—William J. Sheridan. '38. Box 
605, Aneon. Canal Zone 
PUERTO RICO—Paul F. McManus, '34 (key man), B & M Products Company, Box 2695, San Juan. 
<•{: 






