The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 


Changing times 
It's almost impossible to talk about ND these days without talking about change. These are changing times, and times are changing the University. Even the class reunions. Ask any of the 989 graduates who attended Reunion '70. 
It was rather unique for an ND reunion: "quiet and subdued" are the words most often used to describe it. The reason? Some say that the graduates—while back primarily to renew old friendships —were seriously interested in finding out what is going on at ND during this time of turmoil on many campuses. They wanted to talk with professors and students as well as their peers about University life today. 
If he talked to students, the alumnus found that casual side-trips to the Grotto no longer serve fully the need for Christian witness. The changing Church, with its emphasis on the social implications of the Gospels, has brought them a new awareness of what it means to live the Christian life. 
There are some who feel that this change in emphasis is eroding the unique character ND has as a Catholic university. That in the end it will be no more than a Purdue or a Princeton. However, if the words of student Guy DeSapio (pages 6-7) are any indication, the spirit of Notre Dame has not been buried yet—at least by its students. And he asks that we, as alumni, continually reexamine our lives in order to keep that spirit alive. 

Basically, the ND spirit is a sense of family—of community. In the hip term of today, we are all together. (Although by some of the letters we get, there is some occasion to doubt that!) Keeping together, without the tremendous polarization of ideas and attitudes that is now adrift in the country, is the key problem. Communication is undoubtedly one of the answers. There must be a free exchange of ideas between 
alumni, students and administration. Traditionally, the lines have been open between alumni and administration. But the ground rules have been altered now. And students are being brought into the game. That's why this magazine has a student column and why we reprinted Guy DeSapio's speech. And many of you have had the chance to meet ND students personally either at the reunion or when student and faculty representatives have visited your area clubs. 
These are just a few ways in which the University is trying to broaden communication between all the groups of the ND family. The story of one of the biggest steps it has taken in this direction since 1949 begins on the opposite page. The times, my friends, they are indeed a-changin'. 
FEATTRES  
14611  ND CHARTS NEW LEADERSHIP COURSE  MR. NOTRE DAME  WHAT SHOULD ND ALUMNI BE?  THOSE WERE THE DAYS  
DEPARTMENTS  
81015  NDNEWS ALUMNI SPEAK CLASS NEWS45  CLUB NEWS GRADUATE SCHOOLS ON RECORD ALUMNI ASK   37  41  44  
Robert L. McGoldrick '56 (CONTINUING EouczATioN, STUDENT AFFAIRS) 15-Drury Lane, West Hartford,' Conn. 06117 


Vol. 48 No, 4 July-August, 1970 
James D. Cooiicy *59 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Editor 
Timothy J. Hughci '61 MANAGING EDITOR 
George A. Sclieuer '28 CHIEF COPY EDITOR 
Bill Mitchell '71 EDITORIAL ASSISTANT 
M. Bruce Harlan '49 CHIEF PHOTOGRAPHER 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OFFICERS 
Leonard H. Skoglund '38 HONORARY FkEsiDENT 
Donald F. O'Brien '42 PRESIDENT 
Walter M. Lallgford '311 ViCE-PkESIDENT 
W. Jerome Kane '38 VICE-PRESIDENT 
Francis J. Wilson '28 VICE-IVESIDENT 
James D. Cooney '59 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 
Micliael E. Jortlan '68 ASSISTANT SECRETARY 
DIKECTORS TO 1971 
W. Jerome Kane '38 (CLUB ACTIVITIES) P.O. Box 3707, Seattle, Wash. 98124 
Walter M. Langford '30 (ClAss ACTIVITIES) 1315 Otsego St., South Bend, Ind. 46617 
Donald F. O'Brien '42 (EXECUTIVE AND NOMINATIONS) 1113 Rocky River Rd., Houston, Tex. 77027 
Leonard H. Skoglund '38 (SENATE ACTIVITIES) 426 Dover Ave., LaGrange P^rk, III. 60525 
Francis J. Wilson '28 (PUBLIC RELATIONS AND DEVELOPMENT) 6105 Howe St., Pitts­burgh, Pa. 15206 
DIRECroRS TO 1972 
Robert A. Erkins '37 (PLACEMENT, ADMIS­SIONS) P.O. Box 546, Buhl. Idaho 83316 
John T. Massman '52 (FACULTY RELATIONS) 3917 Bioadtvay, Kansas City, Mo. 64111 
Frank L. McGinn '52 (ACADEMIC AFFAIRS. REUGION & CITIZENSHIP) 900 BIdg., Pompano Beach, Fla. 33062 
Leonard H. Tose '37 (ATHLETIC) 64 W. 4th St., Bridgeport, Pa. 19405 
DIRECTORS TO 1973 
Daniel D. Canale '42, 1325 Commerce Title BIdg., Memphis, Tenn. 38103 
Dr. John C. Lungren '38. 4180 Chestnut Ave., Long Beach, Calif. 90607 
James C. MacDevitt '35. 43 Hampshire Rd., Great Neck, N.Y. 11023 
Joseph T. O'Neill '53, 60 W. 4th St.. St. Piiul, Minn. 55102 
John R. F^neUi '49, 17549 Kirkshire, Bir­mingham, Mich. 48009 
1970 Notre Dame ALUMNUS, University of Notre Dame, all rights reserved. Reproduc­tion Jn whole or in part without written permission is prohibited. 
The Notre Dame ALUMNUS is published monthly, except January, March, May. August and November, by the University of Notre Dame. Second-class postage paid at' Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

>OTRE DAME CHARTS \EW LEADEUSHIP COIRSE 
ihi- Ki'^. I.uiu-' I . Buriihj.,'11 ( s( . (.hair­
m.iii It ihi' itu-nl(i'^\ (liparlnuMl. laki'^ i)\ IT ttu' iu » l\ i rt ali'il |)iivt I prci\ list 111 tlu' I ni\ iT^it 
I hi- .ippiiinlnuiil of 1 r Biirti. h.H'll ami the 

Fr. Skills Fr. Brown 
presidency for student affairs—were 
announced in mid-July by the Rev. 
Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, Uni­
versity president The changes and 
appointments were authorized at 
the June 22 meeting of the Board of 
Trustees. 
The new office of provost replaces 

the vice presidency for academic 
affairs. 
In a letter to the Notre Dame Family, Fr. Hesburgh said that the new administrative arrangement reduces to two the number of persons reporting directly to him: the provost and the executive vice president The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC will continue as executive VP, a post he has held for 18 years. 
Fr. Hesburgh said Fr. Burtchaell will be directly in charge of the total academic enterprise and in­directly supervise student affairs. He will become a fellow and trustee of the University and be acting president in the absence of the president 
Fr. Joyce will, as treasurer of the University, give special attention to all financial affairs. He will also continue as a fellow and trustee and as chairman of several key ND committees, including the budget committee, the building committee and the faculty board in control of athletics. 
The new assignment of the Rev. John E. Walsh CSC, vice president for academic affairs since 196S, will be aimounced later, Fr. Hesburgh said. The Rev. Ferdinand Brown CSC, who has been serving as acting vice president for academic affairs while Fr. Walsh is in residence at the U. of Hawaii's East-West Center on a Danforth Foundation 
Fr. McCarragher 
grant, will become associate provost 
"If this dual subdivision of presi­dential responsibility works, the office of the presidency should be relieved of some of the present pressures," Fr. Hesburgh commented in his letter. 
The Rev. Thomas E. Blantz CSC, University archivist and assistant professor of history, was named vice president for student affairs. He succeeds the Rev. Charles I. McCar­ragher CSC, who held the post since 1961. Fr. Hesburgh also appointed his special assistant, PhOip J. Fac­cenda, to the newly created post of vice president and general counsel. 
In other appointments, the Rev. James L. Shilts CSC was named assistant vice president for student affairs, and the Rev. Thomas E. Chambers CSC is the new director of student readence, replacing the Rev. Edgar J. Whelan CSC. The Rev. Lawrence G. BroestI CSC, former assistant to the vice president for 
student affaire, continues as director 
of the ND foreign studies program . 
and associate professor of modem 
languages. 
Fr. McCarra^r has been named 
director of financial aid and schdar­
ships. He replaces Brother Kieran 
Ryan CSC, who was named assistant 
vice president for business affairs. 
Noting Fr. McCarragher's contri­bution to the University, Fr. Hesburgh expressed "the deep grati­tude of the University and myself to Fr. McCarragher for his 31 years of dedicated, priestly service to Notre Dame as a teacher, rector, dean of students and vice president of student affairs. 
"During years of turbulent change on campuses everywhere and in the Church, too, his has been the most difficult area of University adminis­tration. It is to Fr. McCarragher's credit that the overwhelming number of Notre Dame students have reacted responsibly to the problems of our time and that new mechanisms have been created for their deeper involvement in the affairs of the University." 
During his tenure as student affairs vice president, Fr. McCarragher coordinated facilities and programs dealing with student religious life, discipline, physical welfare and social and recreational activities. Since 1961 the Stepan Center, primarily a student facility, was erected and Sacred Heart Church was renovated. The University's health service expanded to include a Psychological Services Center and the campus security force achieved a greater degree of professional standing. In recent years, as religious activity on campus became oriented to the ' • theology of Vatican H, thousands of students became involved in activi­


ties aiding the sick or disadvantaged in the community. Meantime, student governmentflourished, and two new oi;ganizations were created: the tripartite Student Life Council and the All-University Forum, which 
includes trustees and alumni as well 
as students, faculty and ad­
ministrators. 
A member of Fr. Hesburgh's 
administration for 18 years, Fr. Mc­' Carragher has served as a fellow 
and trustee of the University since 
1967. He will continue as provincial 
steward of the Holy Cross Fathers 
Indiana Province, a post he has held 
since 1957. 
Fr. Burtchaell is a native of Port­
land, Ore. He was ordained a priest 
in 1960 and did his undergraduate 
work at ND in philosophy. He holds 
theology degrees from Rome's 
Gregorian U. and the Catholic U. of 
America. He received his bachelor's 
degree and licentiate in Sacred 
Scripture from the Pontifical 
Biblical Commission following re­
search at the Ecole Biblique et 
Archeologique Francaise in Jerusalem. 
From 1963 to 1966, he studied at 
Cambridge U. in England, earning a 
Ph.D. in Divinity. 
Fr. Blantz holds BA and MA degrees from ND and two theology degrees from the Gregorian U. in Rome. His Ph.D. in American history was received in 1968 from Columbia U. He was ordained in 1960 and joined the ND faculty in 1966. Appointed archivist in 1969, he most recently has served as rector of Zahm Hall. 

Fr. Wakh 
Faccenda was named special as­sistant to Fr. Hesbuigh and assistant secretary of the Board of Trustees and of the Fellows of the University shortly after ND governance was reorganized in July, 1967. He is a 1952 graduate of ND, with a degree in mechanical engineering. He received his law degree from Loyola U., Chicago, in 1957. He had his own law firm in Chicago and was prominent in ND alumni affairs. 
Faccenda served as president of the ND alumni association in 1964. He was also president of the ND Club of Chicago in 1959 and was president of the ND Law Association in 1967. 
The new vice president and general counsel is also chairman of the board of directors of four domestic corporations and is a member of the Illinois, Indiana and American bar associations. 
Fr. Shilts is a native of South Bend who entered the Holy Cross 
Order in 1943 and was ordained 
in 1953. He received his PhJ>. 
from ND in 1961. He has served 
as prefect and rector in various 
campus residences and most recently 
was rector of Fariey Hall. He 
served on the tripartite Student 
Life Council. 
Fr. Bnnm was appointed associate vice president for academic affairs in June 1968. He had been religious superior at ND since 1960. A native of Portsmouth, Ohio, Fr. Brown holds AB, MS and Ph.D. degrees from ND. He joined the mathematics depart­ment in 1946, four years after his ordination, ^t h the exception of a year as a post-doctoral fellow at Yale in 1951-52, he taught mathematics at the University imtil going on leave in 1963 to devote fidi time to his duties asreligious superior. 
Bro. Kieran haa a degree in accounting from ND and an MA in business administrationfirom NYU. From 1953 until his appointment in 1967 as director offinancial aid, he served as treasurer of the CSC Brothers Midwest Province and was instrumental in the planning and construction of Holy Cross Junior College at ND. He succeeds the Rev. Paul G. Wendel CSC, who will become assistant superior of Moreau Seminary. 

In closing his letter, Fr. Hesburgh remarked: "I suspect there will be further changes by this time next year, but, for the moment, these changes in structure and personnel should respond effectively to some of the real questions raised by the Chancellor-President discussion in recent months. At least the trustees thought so and thus authorized the changes and made new provost and vice presidential appointments." 
^ .\;^^ 
r'-^^'ii:: 
i*K>i,­


""^"S: 
# 

P?«^^JI^ 



Mr. >otre Dame 
Art Hale\ sal watching the Indiana summer squall lash against the tall windows of the Main Building office he had occupied for 30 >ears as director of public relations at ND. When the sun shines, the view is good—overlooking the tree-clustered main quadrangle. 
From this vantage-point he had seen the L niversit> grow to a size undreamed of even b) the most prophetic in 1926. the vear Art came to ND as the first full-time business manager for athletics. Fortv-four vears later, he was in a reflective mood. 
There was a good reason. It was his last da> on the job for the L ni­versitv (although he will be available as a consultant!. The last of the paperwork was being cleared awa\ and his desk was piled high with mementos he had accumulated over the >ears. 
There were photos of the campus and the prelates, presidents and in­dustrial leaders who visited here. There were plaques and paperweights com­memorating the hundreds of banquets and building dedications he had ar­ranged. And there were still photos of the 1940 movie. "Knute Rockne All American." once required viewing during freshman orientation week. Art served as technical director for the film. 
"Let me sho^^ \ou this." Art said as he plucked a vellowing pamphlet from the pile on his desk. "This got lost in the back of a file and I just found it." Called "A World View of Notre Dame." it was published in 1922, about the time he enrolled at ND as a full-time student. An artists > iew of the campus showed 13 buildings. Todav. there are more than 
90. Art plaved the leading role in the dedication of more than 20 of these built since 1940. 
The 14 vears previous, he had served as business manager for ath­letics. Knutt Rockne appointed him to the post shortiv after his gradua­tion. During his student da>s, he had been business manager of the ND Glee Club and he had the unique abilitv to keep the club's financial affairs in the black. In searching for an explanation v»h\ Rockne gave him the job. he jokes. "I guess it was because we had something left in the Glee Club treasury at the end of the \ earl" 
Art got to know the man who brought ND to national prominence in football about as well as an\bod\. His face brightened as he recalled the kind of man he was. "Rockne was a genius. Not onlv at football, but in chemistrv. business or whatever he attempted." 
One of Art's viMd recollections about Rockne is an incident when the NCAA legislated against the famous ND Shift. "In the old da>s. the l\\ League and the Fast dominated the rules making. When thev outlawed the shift, thev did so without allowing Rockne to make a defense of it. He was writing a sports column for the papers at this time and he wrote that the decision bv the rules commitee would take the spirit of inventiveness out of football. The result was that the next >ear. the rules committee sent him an advance cop> of the rules changes thev intended to make. It was the first time the Midwest was recognized as having a voice in policv decisions." 
V\ hat impressed \rt most about the incident was the stvie that Rockne displaved. "He said what had to he said firmlv. but nicelv." 
\nd that. too. is \rt Halev's stvie. "I don't think I ever heard \rt raise his voice to anvone." savs a friend who has known him manv vears. "He was the kind of man ND needed during those vears of tremendous growth." 
Man\ times \rt Halev was an im­portant visitors' first contact with what is ND. He has arranged visits of presidents and presidential candidates. Princes of the Church and prominent men and women from virtuallv everv field of endeavor. Besides hi.s role in building dedications, he has figured in everv commencement since 1940. He was a member of a small group which organized the ND Foundation in 1947 and he organized the Pres­ident's Committees in New >ork. Philadelphia, Chicago and South Bend. 
Art is credited with originating the Junior Parents-Son Weekend on the campus. For manv vears he has been a member of the ND Facultv Board in (Dntrol of Athletics. 
These are but a few of the reasons 
J. \rthur Halev has been called. "\lr. Notre Dame." 
\ native of ( hillicolhe. Ohio. \rl first came to ND in 1918 as a member of the Student \rmv Train­ing ( iirps. Shortiv afterwards, the 
\rniistice was declared and he re­turned home lo work for the Norfolk ,.<. Western Railroad. Five vears later, after a vounger brother came to ND. he returned to complete his education. 
\nd here he staved to serve under six I niversitv presidents: Fathers Mat­thew Walsh. Charles O'Donnell. lohn OHara. Hugh O'Donnell. John ( avanaugh and Theodore Hesburgh. 
In I92X, \rt married the former Marv \ irginia Matson of Ogden. I tah. "ho had been a student at St. Marv's of the Woods (Ollege. \nd if jnvone qualified as "Mrs. Notre Dame," Marv Halev would. Manv of the world-renowned persons that Msitcd N[), were also entertained at the Halev home. She never prepared J formal guest list when she enter­tained. "If thev were coming to the game v\e just told them to come over and bring anv guests thev had with them." she savs. 
Mrs. Halev has also been active in I niversitv and communitv affairs. She has served a-s secretarv to the \\ omen's \dvisorv ( ouncil at the I niversitv since it was founded in 1952. She is also on the lav advisorv hoard of St. Joseph's Hospital in South Bend. 
The Halev's have three sons and a daughter. The bovs are all ND graduates: John Jr. '51. George '52 and Tom '57. The familv includes 15 grandchildren ithe 16th is expected soon I. 
These words, spoken at a dinner honoring the Halev s, sum u] what the Notre Dame famih feels about them: "In whatever thev have done—on campus, in the communitv. throughout the countrv or around the world—\rt and Marv Halev have reflected great credit on the I niversitv of Our I.adv who has ever been their life, their sweetnevs and their hope." 
STUDENT VIEW 
WHAT SHOrLD NOTRE DAME ALIJMNI BE? 

The following is an excerpt from a speech delivered by Guy DeSapio, ND student, at a luncheon of the ND Alumni Board and Senate last May. DeSapio edited The Observer, a campus newspaper, last year. This coming academic year he will be its publisher. 
A student and alumni in the midst of dialogue during the recent Reunion '70. 

An alumnus worthy of Our Lady's University must have a deep social concern. It must be an everyday concern and must run deeper than words. It must be substantiated in action. Now every one of you can­not spend every moment of your time directly involved in saving a starving child's life (and I think that most of my peers will soon have to realize that); but each one of you can contribute in some measure to that effort. Analyze your work and your life style. Is it Christian? Does it reach out beyond yourself to help other people? Ask yourself the following questions: Am I ethical in my business affairs?—Do I. participate in my local government or encourage government officials to move toward social progress? And if I don't have the time to do that, do I encourage other people to do so? Do I encouri^e my son to do so? Do I understand and sym­pathize with him when we don't see ­things eye to eye? Do I support his efforts anyway? 
I imagine that many of you are businessmen—most of you suc­cessful. Right now I am skipping a marketing class to be here. We are learning the marvels of advertising and public relations. Funny thing— advertising and public relations— those two things that may have contributed more than anything to the growth of business over the last few years. Probably most of you are familiar with the best techniques —^you have used them, and you have been successful. 
Ever wonder why many of your generation have such a bad public relations image with your own children? Have you made them feel close to you and your work? If each one of us can't be a statesman or at least a social worker, we can contribute to the world's develop­ment through our own particular fields. Have you ever shown your children what makes your work important? Did you ever ask yourself if you could? If you think you can't, then maybe isn't it time that 
/ 
\ 
•••*ir. 

'•^'k 

you cease your "business as usual" and ask yourself where you are going? 
For the most part, a good alumnus must be a good father. Do you remember Woodstock—that crazy upper New York State "rock" festival? The yoimg people there were looking for fraternity. I wonder how many of them couldn't find it at home because their parents were out working hard so that their children wouldn't have to have it as bad. A lot of parents are probably indignant about children whom they send off to college and for whom they pay the way, only to find that they seem ungrateful. AVhen are parents going to realize that young people don't want money —^they want love! 
What this country needs is for people to become a little more human in their relations to one another . . . a little more compassionate . . . a little more understanding .. . a little more loving! If the country is to become unified again, then that basis must be in understanding, respect, and love. 
The same could be said for Notre Dame. The alumni of the University have had a very bad name with the general student body, at least since I came here three years ago. Students have been very critical of your actions. I wouldn't say that they have singled out you particularly, because they have been very critical of almost everyone's actions. 
But they accuse the alumni of a lot of things. Some of them are true —others not so. But it is up to each one of you to search your own soul to see whether you have made the kind of commitment that the times demand; to see that you haven't allowed yourself to get wrapped up in a world that tends to categorize people and that, in the name of "progress," asks you to give up time that should be spent with your children and your loved ones. For the only true progress is the progress of the human heart—and that can't be measured by how high they make the World Trade Center in New York or whether the stock market is up or down. 
This concept of progress of the spirit is something that I felt Notre Dame has always stood for. There was always something unique about a Notre Dame Man—he had a commitment to the spiritual— to making his life something special. 
The life of a Notre Dame alumnus should typify that commitment. A person who does not seek to grow spiritually is not a Notre Dame alumnus. A person who does not seek to act morally is not a Notre Dame alumnus. A man who is afraid to confront old problems with new ideas, who is afraid to confront himself, has wasted four years at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame should teach people that life is much more than what it appears to be at first glance. Behind all the hustle and bustle, there is an underlying motive for it all —that the only true human value is love—that there is a God, whose Son's life of love is not only extolled as a model, but is accepted and practiced as a way of life. 
I guess all that I am actually saying is that a good alumnus is actually a good human being. Now I know that you can say: "Well, that's nothing very new; I've known that all along." Then I will counter by saying that there is a scarcity of good men in the world today, or we wouldn't be facing the depression and despair that we are. 
Live the Notre Dame ideal to the fullest. Be men of faith as well as of action. Be mindful that there are human values that stand above all, and that there is a God who somehow, if we have the faith, can help us to accomplish the impossible and to raise in spirit above this world—its gloom and the persistent 
—continued on page 36 

Jnly-August 1970 



NDNEWS 
PUBLICATIONS WIN AWARDS 
Several ND publications received 

awards at the national convention of 
the American College Public Relations 
Assoc., in Denver this summer. 

ND won first place in the 'Total 
Publications Program" category. 
The University's entry included 

descriptive material on the publica­^tions operations as well as copies of 
publications. 
The University also received an 
award for "Publication Program 

Improvement" This involved com­
parison of four publications with 
previous counterparts. 
Individual publications receiving 
awards included the new series of 

catalogues; "This Is Notre Dame," an 
admissions ofiice publication; "The 
Lab," which deals with the Social 

Science Training Laboratory, and last 
year's issues of "Insight" 
The awards were accepted by 
James W. Frick, ND vice president 

for public relations and development, 
who also was elected president of the 
association. He will serve as president 
in 1971-72. Frick has been a 

frequent speaker at meetings of the 
association. 


FR. THORNTON RETIRES AUG. 1 

Rev. Louis J. Thornton CSC retired 
as ND placement director Aug. 1, 

completing 25 years of service to the 
University. He had headed the 
placement bureau since 1956, and 

during the previous 11 years he served 
as the school's registrar and admis­

sions officer. His successor as well as 
his own new assignment will be 
announced later. 
In announcing Fr. Thornton's 
retirement. Rev. Theodore M. 

Hesburgh CSC, University president, 
praised his "priestly concern and 

expertise in business" which enabled 
him to serve ND "and the young men 
who come here with great effective­
ness." He noted that Fr. Thornton, 
as admissions director, "bore the 
brunt of the post-war enrollment 

Fr. Thornton 
surge" and, as placement director, "interested a record 500 companies, organizations and government agencies" in interviewing Notre Dame seniors and graduate students for employment. 
Following his ordination in 1944 and prior to his work at ND, Fr. Thornton served as secretary to the late John Cardinal O'Hara CSC, former ND president, when he was head of the Military Ordinariate in New York City. He had entered the novitiate of the Congregation of. Holy Cross in 1939 and from 1940 to 1944 studied theology at Holy Cross College in Washington, D. C. 
A 1929 ND graduate, Fr. Thornton worked as a layman in a New York bank for 10 years before be^nning his studies for the priesthood. In addition to his placement oflBce work, he has served since 1962 as chaplain of the Student Infirmary on campus. 


TUITION UP 9200 TO MEET RISING COSTS 
Increases in tuition as well as room, board and laundry rates at ND have been announced by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, president 
Father Hesburgh said the trustees had mandated a tuition increase of $100 per semester for a new total of $2,100 for the academic year. The increase for room, board and laundry will be $25 per semester. Students 
living on campus thus will have 

increased annual costs of $250 with 
the exact amount of their total bill 
depending on the hall and type of 
room in which they live. 

Cash losses exceeding $900,000 in each of the past two years led to the decision for the increases. Father Hesburgh said. 
In making the announcement he noted that concerted efforts are being made to arrive at a balanced budget for ND. Even so, it is the expectation of the administration that for the foreseeable future tuition and fees will increase an average of $150 annually. 
"Lest you think that Notre Dame's situation is unique," Fr. Hesburgh wrote in a letter to parents of ND undergraduates, "published reports indicate that MIT has a $2 million annual deficit; Stanford's amounts to $1.8 million and St Louis U. has a deficit of $1.4 million. As for tuition increases, scores of colleges and universities, private and public, have taken similar action, among them all eight members of the Ivy League." 
Fr. Hesburgh continued: "Not only is ND's tuition considerably less than that of other leading independent institutions next year; our tuition for 1970-71 will be a lot lower—as much as $300 less—than that charged by at least 11 major institutions in the school year just ended!" 

LIBRARY GIVEN RARE ROOKS OF W.R. TROHAN '26 
The Rate Book Room of the ND Memorial Library has received a gift of final items from the collection of Walter B. Trohan, who was a 1926 graduate of the University. Victor A. Schaefer, curator of the Rare Book Room, said the Trohan collection ^ven to ND from 1956 to the present includes 500 titles of first editions, special editions and unique copies. Trohan was for many years chief of the Washington bureau of the Chicago 
Tribune. 

The greater part of the collection 

Jnly-AugDst 1970 



NDNEWS 
is in Americana and Lincolniana with some items valued at upwards of $1,500, according to Schaefer. The books will be on record on the public catalogue for the use of research students. 
First editions of "Moby Dick" by Herman Melville, "Elmer Gantry" by Sinclair Lewis, "The Bravo" by James Fenimore Cooper and "Monsieur Beaucaire" by Booth Tarkington are among some of the earlier gifts. 
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Charles Dickens, Arthur Conan Doyle, Henry Fielding, Richard Brinsley Sheridan, Tobias Smollet, Francis Bacon, Ben Jonson and Henry Cardinal Newman are among the other authors. Some are represented by complete collections. 
JUSTICE STCDY 6ETS V.S. FUND OF $191,917 
The U. S. Department of Justice has given the University a grant of $191,917 to study ways of speeding up the administration of criminal justice wtihout sacrificing Consti­tutional rights. 
The proposal, funded by the Justice Department's National Institute of Law Enforement and Criminal Justice was prepared jointly by ND's Law School, headed by Dean William B. Lawless, and the College of Engineer­ing, under Dean Joseph C. Hogan. 
Third District Congressman John Brademas announced the grant and hailed it as "a significant and encour­aging step toward remedying judicial delay and inefSciency which have caused postponement of rehabilitation of offenders and permitted suspects to commit additional crimes while awaiting trial." 
Lawless said the study flowed &om a remark by Chief Justice Warren Burger that "justice delayed is justice denied" and from a suggestion in a report to former President Lyndon B. Johnson that systems analysis be employed to make the courts more effective. 
helping businesses, hospitals and other organizations streamline their opera­tions. 
The project, funded for one year, will compare delays in non-federal court trials in two Indiana cities— South Bend and Indianapolis—chosen for their convenient location and because they are in the average medium and large population bracket. Eight other cities are to be studied. 
Lawless also is consulting with the 
U. of Birmingham in En^and for a similar study of the English system. 
Director of the Criminal Justice Research operation is Leslie G. Foschio, assistant professor and assistant dean of the Law School. David T. Link, professor of law, will oversee the legal analysis of the computer model and Dr. John J. Uhran, associate professor of electrical engineering and a specialist in sta­tistical communication theory, will supervise the engineering analysis of the computer model. Dr. Raymond 
M. Brach, associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineer­ing, will head the data acquisition and reduction team. 
WWLWaSNNA 
ISBUBCTED 
Rev. Howard J. Kenna CSC, who was graduated in the Class of 16 and ordained at NO on June 24,1930 has been elected to a three-year term as provincial superior of the Indiana Province of Holy Cross. He has served in that o£Bce since 1962. 
Father Kenna was chosen at the triennial Provincial Chapter session at ND. Until this year provincials have been appointed by the general admin­istration of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Rome. 
The Indiana Province coveis the United States with the exception of nine states in the east and 12 in the south. It also is active in East Pakistan, Uganda and Chile. 
Earlier, Father Kenna was superior of Moreau Seminary at ND and of Holy Cross College, Washington, D.C.; director of studies andfirst vice-president for academic affairs at ND; assistant superior general of the Congregation and president of the 
U. of Portland in Oregon. 
Hogan explained that systems ND's Fr. John A. O'Brien (left) at White House ceremony analysis had been used successfully in honoring President Richard M. Nixon as Churchman of the Year. 
COLUMN 

The at^demie pulse 
By Richard W. Conklin, Director of Information Services 
While faculty members are fond of taking the pulse of any part of society on any subject likely to support a monograph, they very seldom put a watch to their wrist. They did recently, however, when the Kerr-Camegie Commission on Hi^er Education (whose membership includes Father Hesburgh) surveyed 60,500 faculty members. 
Among the more interesting results was the fact that professors generally are politically liberal but educationally conservative. Some 61 per cent favor immediate withdrawal from Vietnam or a coalition government there, but more than half thought most under­graduates were satisfied with their education, disapproved of the "emergence of radical student activities," and believed campus demonstrations are a threat to academic freedom. 
ALUMNI SPEAK 
Other survey revelations: 

—^Faculty members are overwhelm­ingly against an all-elective, no-grades system of undergraduate education, but believe a year of community service should be required of all students. 
—Two of three professors endorse black studies, but a majority exposes control of such programs by black people, rejects the lowering of academic requirements for minority students, and does not feel "most American colleges and universities are racist. . ." 
—^The most liberal professors are found in sociology, anthropology, and psychology; the most conservative are in the fields of engineering, business, and physical education. The disciplines with the most Catholics are theology, philosophy and languages. 
Arrivals and departures 
By James D. Cooney, Executive Secretary, Alumni Assoc. 
While yours truly retains the post of editor, this issue of the ALUMNUS magazine marks the departure of its managing editor of two year's vintage, Tom Sullivan '66, and the debut of Tim Hughes '61. To Tom we express our deepest thanks for a job well done. Under his direction the magazine prospered in depth perception and dialogue. But he is not lost to us completely. Tom assumes new re­sponsibilities as regional director of development for the Notre Dame. Foundation, representing the Uni­versity in the Southeastern U.S. We're confident of his continued effective­ness in the new role, and with much gratitude for past services rendered, wish him every success. 
Tim Hughes, who introduces himself elsewhere in this issue, is eminendy qualified to manage the magazine's fortunes. Tim has racked up nearly eight years experience in the field, including a stint with an Iowa daily, three years as an editor with Geo. A. Pflaum, Publisher in Dayton and most recently held the editorship of the Delaware River Port Authority's Log magazine. Tim is married to the former Nancy Ely of Niles, Michigan. So the trek back to the Bend with the four littie ones was a homecoming in more ways than one. We're delighted to have you with us, Tim. 
A tragic note was sounded on .Saturday morning of Reunion TO with the discovery of a body floating in St. Joseph Lake on campus. For a time it was feared in this comer that the deceased mi^t have been a returning alumnus. But the County Coroner indicated time of drowning was four or five days eariier which virtually ruled out that possibility. Campus security officials and county police launched an exhaustive investi­gation to no avail. The body was interred, unidentified, two weeks later in Cedar Grove Cemetary on Notre Dame Avenue. 
When ND's modem history is written, the summer of 7 0 should comprise a significant chapter. Not since 1949 has such sweeping 
—^Present methods of graduate education are endorsed by most professors, and the traditional value of scholariy research, supported by private foundations and the federal government, is upheld. 
—While more than 80 per cent upheld classroom freedom, it was plain their endorsement had limits as 75 per cent disagreed with the statement, "Faculty members should be free on campus to advocate violent resistance to public authority." 
—^A strong majority of professors believe that "more attention ought to be paid to emotional growth of students," but when faced with the proposition, "A man can be an effective teacher without personally involving himself with his students," a scant majority (54 per cent) disagreed. 
functional reorganiaztion affected Notre Dame's top administration. The changes are reported on page 1. One point to be made here, lest the casual reader dub the whole matter a sinister shakeup, is that the incredible pressures inherent in running an organization as complex as a major university today take their toll. The two major figures relinquish­ing top posts this summer. Rev. John 
C. Walsh CSC, Academic Affairs VP, and Rev. Charles I. McCarragher CSC, Student Affairs VP, have served ND eminently well over the years. One need only glance at the enormous accomplishments in both spheres to verify that statement. But it wasn't easy. The energies expended, the crises endured, the pressures absorbed, all make their marks on administrate today. These two men fou^t the good fight exceptionally well and deserve to turn in their oflSce keys as we imagine they will— in good health, good spirits, and not without a littie ^ee. ND men every­where should feel deeply in their debt 


Those irere the dajs 
Tbey came fexn Car and near £iv die hs^pening diat was REUNION 70, June 10, 11, 12 on dw ND campus. From Jqian, Anatialia, Hawaii and Peiu. From LaPUt^ Michigan City, Chicago and Soodi Bnd. And £rom many places in between. 
To hear diem talk and see their faces, it was anCThilamting o^eii­ence. coming back to campus for the first time in five, tea, at possibly even 30 yean. Gazing at the Dome, visiting Sacied Heart and the Giotto, stndling among dw dms and around the lakes, meeting <rid firiends. 
There was much to do during the three-day oooclave and the 989 alnmni who returned to partake caqieiienced 
II 

an interesting communion. 
On Thursday it was the Monogram Golf Tournament in which some 175 former athletes birdied, parred, bogeyed (and then some) their way around the Burke Golf Course. There were Fritz Wilson, Leon Hart, Moose Krause, Christie Flanagan and numerous others who once donned the Blue and Gold in athletic competition. 
Later that evening the National Monogram Club held its annual soiree featuring cocktails and dinner in the handsome Monogram Lounge of the Athletic and Convocation Center. The affair occasioned lively anecdotes and stories concerning many of those in attendance, as well as remarks and progress reports by Coaches Dee and Parseghian. 
With Friday sunrise came the first real influx of the members of the classes of '20, '25, '30, '35, '40, '45, '50, '55, '60, '65 and the 50 Year Club. The campus was a panorama of darting shuttle buses on runs to North Quad dorms, golfers teeing off, and old roommates searching for one another among a sea of vaguely familiar faces. 
Unique on the Reunion agenda this year was the Friday noon Presidential Welcome Luncheon presided over by Fr. Hesburgh. In addressing the assembled alums, the president said that universities today cannot become victims of political partisanship, but that the people who make them up cannot remain neutral 
IVhal tho the odds be great or small, there shall be no "Gimmies" during Reunion golf tournaments. 


in times of great moral crises. He defended the "deep moral concern" of the younger generation and praised ND students and faculty for their "nonviolent and constructive" re­sponse to events triggered by American intervention in Cambodia and the death of four Kent State U. students. 
Following the welcome festivities the refreshment tents opened and fellowship began to flow from the kegs housed in three large open tents on the quad. 
Friday evening ushered in the Class Dinners and each group retired to a private dining room for cuisine and more remembering. 
Saturday was a day of warm sunshine, deep blue sides and much activity. Class Masses alternated with class pictures for each group in the morning and they say there were a few from each class who, for some strange reason, were reluctant to participate in either activity. As the golfers continued to play, campus tours resumed, new arrivals marched in and the series of seminars entitled "Notre Dame and Its People" continued. Showings of the football highlight films from the years corresponding with the various classes also spiced the afternoon. 

In the wake of more libation and the festive REUNION '70 Parade led by the Caledonia Kilty Band, the Reunion Banquet was held in the North Dining Hall. 
Remarks by Fr. Hesburgh and a talk by Ara Parseghian highlighted the evening. Some 1000 alumni. 
faculty and staff gathered to celebrate o and pay tribute to J. Arthur Haley, who after more than 40 years of service to the University retired July 1. Members of the Golden Jubilee Class, 1920, were inducted e 
into the hallowed 50 Year Club and presented with diplomas so indicating ; by the ND president. 
Following a brief shower Saturday # evening the cordialities continued : ' until the wee hours of another day when even the toughest reunion-goers T--. surrendered for some well-earned shuteye. The concelebrated Sunday Reunion Mass concluded the get-together for another year and the last cry heard in the cloud of dust that , ' remained in the wake of 989 rapid departures was "SEE YOU ALL IN ' FIVE YEARS!" 
CLASS NEWS 
'15 REFLECTIONS "Death has taken another old schoolmate and valued friend from me. I was fortunate that JOSEPH J. COLLINS LLB 'II spent so much of his life near me while I lived in Michigan and kept in close touch after I moved to Arizona. He was a wonderful fellow and a great ND man." So reported JAMES F. O'BRIEN CE '13, who resides at 1835 Calletranqwila, Tucson, Ariz. Jim continued, "He was an outstand­ing football player on the famous championship team of 1909 at right end along with VAUGHN, PHILBROOK, DIMMICK, ROSEY, DOLAN, EDWARDS, RED MILLER, MATHEWS and others. Those were the days of 30 minute halves, no huddles and few substitutions." Jim closed, "I am mindful of an old saying— that 'God gave us friends and memories so that we might have roses in December.'" JOSEPH COLLINS died in Ann Arbor and was buried from the church of St. Francis of Assisi there, Fr. Frank Srebernck officiating. He was the former first VP and genera] sales mgr. of Standard Products Corp., Detroit and Cleveland. Survivors include: his wife; a daughter, Mrs. George Huntzickey, Ann Arbor; a brother, George Collins, Old Bridge, NJ.; a sister, Mrs. J. Fitzgerald, Belmont, Mass.; six grand­children and one great-grandchild. 
And death has taken another member of the Holy Cross Fathers, Rev. PATRICK 
H. DOLAN AB-MA '15, who died April 12. He resided at Holy Cross House at ND for a number of years prior to his death. Fr. Pat's youngest brother, Edward M. Dolan, who lives at 16589 Lawton St., Detroit, Mich. 48221 sent me the following news: "The funeral services for Pat were beautiful—50 priests, ail in white, were on the altar and five said the Mass together. It was at 3:30 p.m. and we all walked behind the casket to the burial ground where he was placed among his fellow priests with whom he worked, prayed and lived. There were 47 relatives at his funeral. There were seven boys and three girls in our family—now only five of us are left. All are in the 80's except me, 1 am 
78. We miss Pat—I wrote a letter to him every Sunday for years and always got one in return each Wednesday. He would have completed 50 years as a priest this month (June)." Eternal rest grant to these fine ND men, O Lord, and let perpetual light shine upon them. 
A note from our good friend ROBERT 
L. ROACH '15, Muscatine, Iowa, brings the following news: "The local Junior Chamber of Commerce lads gave me the shock of my life by presenting me with their Distinguished Citizen & Good Government Award. This was their first presentation of this type of award. I understand that 20 names and records were submitted so I guess I had reason to feel pretty good about the whole affair. The script that went along with the award went back over about 50 years of various civic jobs I had held. I felt well repaid for all the time and effort that had been devoted to a great variety of projects including membership on boards of trustees of Municipal Water & Light Plants, Muscatine Genera] Hospital Public Library, YMCA, Chamber of Commerce, War Bond Chairman of our County, Community Chest and a few others." Bob sincerely regrets being unable to attend the class reunion. And Bob let me assure you, you were sorely missed, as were many others. 
1 was most agreeably surprised about ten days ago to receive a long-distance call from JOHN F. BOYLE CI '15, Coalgate, Oklahoma, relative to his plans for attending the 1970 Reunion. My pleasure was dampened by his failure to attend. I hope and trust that his absence was not due to sudden illness or some other unfortunate cause. A note from LD. KESSLAR CHE '15, W. Palm Beach, Fla., expressed his regret—he had wanted so much to be there with his classmates and friends of other years. It is my understanding that the Alumni Office will prepare a list of attendees at the 1970 reunion for inclusion in this issue of the ALUMNUS. This will be of special interest to those who were unable to attend. 
For me it was an unforgettable experience—to meet and talk with men with whom you were associated more than 50 years ago—for this the 55th anniversary of the graduates of the class of 1915. Men who have not been on campus in a number of years would look with awe upon the change and to see the tremendous growth and academic progress of ND. You will have little reason to doubt that your alma mater ranks high among the top universities of the world. 
I would be remiss if I did not report the pleasure 1 had in seeing and chatting with members of the faculty of our day— Rev. Cornelius Hagerty CSC and Rev. Charles L. Doremus, CSC. 
Albert A. Kuhle 
117 Sunset Avenue 
LaGrange, Illinois 60525 
'16 SHUTTERBUG 
Dear Folks—here I am back in Northern 
Wisconsin after a swell time at ND last 
Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Had just 
unearthed a book of pictures I took in 
1913-1916 of ND. Hundreds of them with 
remarks about Rockne, old coaches, old 
priests. Fr. DOREMUS, etc. AL KUHLE 
said there are lots of stories to be written 
about that time from the pictures. I'll try 
to send a few samples. In those days I 
was the photographer for the Dome. 
Sorry not to have a report for the July-August issue. 
Grover F. Miller 
1208 So. Main Racine, Wis. 53403 
'17 NO NEWS No news this time because you didn't send any. It is just as simple as that. Perhaps the time has come to give up our own class news column and merge (every­body else is doing it) with the 50 Year Club. Then you could mail any news about another great-grandchild or of a classmate to the managing editor of the ALUMNUS and specify that it is for the 50 Year Club column. 
So, let's put it to a vote and be governed by the majority. The question is, shall we surrender our entity or shall we keep going. Just spend a nickle for what used to be a penny post card and write on it, "I surrender" or "Let's keep it going." You do not even have to sign your name but it would be good to know who is interested enough to declare himself about this vital issue, since month after month goes by and we never hear from a '17er. Are you tired of the prep school anecdotes used to stimulate the Lifers and the stories about 
our college life? Our column woidd be a blank without this kind of fluff; maybe that's the way you would like it but please tell us. 
By the way, were you at the 40th reunion when good old HARRY SCOTT said to the REV. IVO McELROY, OFM, "Say, Red, why don't you take off that brown bathrobe and have some fun?" Sure enough, the next time around. Red was in slacks and a sport shirt The prize reunion wise crack was made on a sweltering week-end during prohibition when, some local class­mates drove some of us out to a Polish beer bust in the west end. After three or four rounds of high powered brew in 20-oimce steins, PAUL FOGARTY remarked casually, "Say, you know, this is the coolest spot on the campus." Why not make it a contest? Do you have any reunion wise cracks to top these? Once upon a time, there was a one chair barber shop on the ground floor of Wash­ington Hall conducted by Jimmy HaHa; no, not a Potawatomi, HaHa was his nickname because he laughed at any joke a student told him. One beautiful spring morning with the window wide open, a large corpus relaxed on his back in the chair, with rich, foamy lather all over his face and about to enjoy the luxury of a shave. Price 25 cents or perhaps gratis in this instance, when suddenly a youth from Carroll Hall stuck his head thru the open window and almost shouted down the neck of the customer, "Cut his throat, Jimmy!" The corpus threw off the haircloth, pulled up his cassock and leaped—well, scrambled out of the chair to give chase with his pink chubby face covered with the equivalent of a pint of whipped cream but the youthful CarroUite was too agile and around the comer and out of sight before the late occupant of the chair could identify the brash student, who had offended the pompous dignity of Fr. JOHN CAVANAUGH, the president of the University. Who was this naughty boy and where was he from? Well, his first and last name began with the same letter and he was from either Philadelphia or Pittsburgh, so if you say Pennsylvania you are right. 
Do you have your dance program from our Senior Ball in the Gold Room of the good old Oliver? The first musical number is listed as a one-step and entitled "Go Get 'Em." How's that again? The fourth dance was a fox trot, "Poor Butterfly." The ninth, a one-step, "When You Are Turning 21." The 13th, a one-step, "Beware of Pink Pajamas." HOWS that again? and the last one, the 16th dance, a one-step, entitled "Cheer for Old Notre Dame." Could they mean the Notre Dame Victory March? The date, April 23, 1917. Were you there Mac? There were lots of interesting aftermaths—a polite name for them and it was indeed a busy night for good old Jimmy Sweeney, the house detective. 
We switched from another cataract operation to two in the lower region. Likewise, Paul Fogarty recovered success­fully and promptly in May from a prostate operation. Your correspondent was not as fortunate and was in St. Joseph Hospital for about a month, including the reunion week-end, when such great and good friends as BERNIE VOLL, BILL GRADY and LEO VOGEL called on him and gave us a big lift. Tlie following address is correct; we checked 
out of Michigan to be closer to our only 
son, DAN ni, '42 and his fanuly. 
Dan E. Hilgartner, Jr. 
1701 Turtle CreeV Drive, North 
South Bend, Ind. 46637 

'18 GREETINGS 
Birthday Greetings to: Aug. 8th, ALVIN 
H. BERGER, R.R. *2. Sturgis, Mich. 49091; STEPHEN H. HERR, CE "10. 214 E. Hickory St Chatsworth, lU. 60921; Aug. 12th, JOHN P. DANT, Jr. SEE '11. 1618 San Helen Dr. Dunedin, Fla. 33528; Aug. 13th, '12 RICHARD NASH 2800 Jackson St Sioux City, la. 51104; Sept 3rd, LOUIS H. FOLLET. B.COM. 
•18.
 1303 W. Oak St Norristown, Pa. 19401; Sept 8th, WALTER RILEY MILLER. 14015 Superior Rd. Qeveland, Ohio. 44118; Sept 29th, EDWARD 

F.
 RIELY, LLB. '15. Minonk, lU. 61760. WEDDING ANNIVERSARIES: July 1st THOMAS H. KING; July 7lh, HARRY C. BAUJAN; July 19th, ARTHUR J. "Dutch" BERGMAN; July 28th, JAMES E. "Jim" ARMSTRONG; Aug. 1st PAUL J. "Betty Boop" FOGARTY; Aug. 1st CHARLES 

W.
 "Coach" BACHMAN. ORDINATION DAY: Aug. 4th, Fr. C. L. DOREMUS. Corby Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 


What makes the reunion most interesting —returning to ND and seeing how BIG it has grown. Meeting with classmates and "tall story" about the "good ole days." Calling on Fr. Doremus who is enjoying good health—^"holding down" CAP. FARLEY'S—throne on the porch of Corby Hall. You will recognize at once—^FR. HAGERTY. And FR. WILLIAMS just like you saw him last You who could not make it this year—remember— we will be looking forward to seeing you next year—^the Good Lord willing. Even tho he is back in Robinson—BILL BRADBURY could not make it—neither JIM LOGAN, both on sick list Understand that DANNY HILGARTNER is in hos^rital. The wives of MAX KAZUS, "BIG FRANK" RYDZEWSKI and BERT SENG, kept 'em home. Wondering how come "DOC" NIGRO, LEMMER and RONCHETT missed out-^iope they are in good health. Attended monogram diimer— about 150 there—shared table with BILL ANDRES, JOHN VOELKERS and WALTER R. MILLER. 
"Ye Mgr. Ed," directed— please don't include list of attendees. Regret it cuts out a lot of our "chitchat" Honestly it's great to meet nice "guys" like—^PAT MALONEY and son FR. MALONEY (boy can he sing) COONEY (not bad) GROVER MILLER—LEO VOGEL with his stories—JIM SWEENEY—PAUL FENLON (Big Campus man) "TEXAS" GRADY—JIM WALLACE (book author) and ALL AMERICAN BOY—JAKE KLINE, baseball coach. Nice meeting and talking with "ole Timers" who have made their "Pot of Gold"—Chairman of Boards, Big Men now whom you knew "way back when"—^they too did not have "the Pot or Window to throw it out of." That's what makes the reimion great— reliving memories—now history of 50 and more years ago. Some of us have only a millon dollars in good health. Our sincere wish is that you too—enjoy the best of health. May we all be granted the privilege and have the good fortune to return to ND 50 Year Club reunion 1971. May You Live To Be 100. PEACE. 
U 

50-Year Club Attendees 

JOSEPH E. POULIN, STEVEN H. HEUL. 
LEO ZGODZINKU. WnXIAU U. CAKROlL, 
ALBERT A. KIJHLE^EDWAKD F. SIELY, 
LOUIS KIEFER. PfnUCK MALONEY, 

GROVER UILUR, WILUAM GKADY, IXO 
VOGEL, BERNAld) VOLL, WILLIAM 

ANDRES, REV. GEORGEH(UDEKITH CSC, 
JIM L. SWEENEY, GECHtGE WAAGE, 

ROBERT HURBER, DR. PAUL WESVOS,
REV. CHARLES J. WILLIAMS. 
George B. Waage 3305 Wrightwood Avenue Chicago, Illinois 60647 

'20 GRAND TIME The setting for the SOth Amuversaty of our 1920 Class was beautiful beyond compare. The sprinkled lawns, bushes, ivy clad biuldings and beautiful trees added to the many new buildiiigs, filled us with pride and wonderment, that our dass of 175 members who first attended 54 years ago has become so large and important as it is today. Our statdy JOHN CAVANAUGH who thrilled us during our time and now Fr. Hesbur^ talked to us to give added admiration for the great ND of today. Twenty-four of our class with five wives attended our class diimer and again our Alumni Banquet It was the first occasion for wives to be present and they added greatly to our 1920 reunion. JIM COONEY did an impressive introduction at our diimer. He will see that pictures of our class and list of members will be in the ALUMNUS. Fr. Hesburgh presented 50-year certificates to all present and wives were given ribbons the night before to commemorate their attendance. A large comer room in the Morris Inn was provided with drinks where we gathered to talk over old times and stories. Fr. CORNELIUS HAGERTY spoke at dinner and we all loved him. WALTER O'KEEFE inspired us at the dinner and in our room with his inspiring and beautiful talk and many stories of his long experience in the entertainment world and travels. WALTER MILLER brought four white hats from home and his white hat and cheerfulness are a permanent marie at ND. SHERWOOD 
. DIXON and PAUL CONNAGAN told of experiences worthy of being printed if space would allow. The ALUMNUS made our reunion a special occasion on our 50th reunion and with the largest number of members of our class in attendance of previous reunions, everyone left expecting to return in 1975 and many before to feel the grand experience of being on the campus. Ms!^. TOM TOBAN came from Portland to join us for his first reunion and Mass for our dass. He has retired and wQl leave shortly to live at the American College in Rome. 
JOHN BALFE will now be president of our class. The following will be VP's: Sherwood Dixon, Dixon, 01.; Edward Doran, South Bend; Humphrey Leslie, Waverly, la.; Oement B. MuIholUnd, Chicago; Harry Nester, Columbus, C ; Dan 
C. Roberts, Greenbank, Wash. All are requested to assist in securing information from our dass members and pass it on. 

1920 Attendees 
JOHN T. BALFE, RALPH BERGMAN, 
LEONARD CALL. PAUL R. CONAGHAN, 
THOMAS B. DEVINE. SHQIWOOD DIXON. 
EDWARD DORAN, Q>WAIU> LALLEY, H. L. 
LESLIE, WALTER MILLER, CLEM B. 
MULHOLLAND, HARRY NESTER, 
CLIFFORD O'SULLIVAN, PATRI<*T. 
POWERS, J. D. ROSENTHAL, ALFRED C. 
RYAN, JAMES H. RYAN, GEC«GE SULLIVAN,^ MAURICE THORNTON, 
THOMAS J. TOBIN, JAMES TRANT, 
ALBERT UEBBING. 
James H. Ryan 
2470 East Ave. 
Rochester, N.Y. 14610 

'22 HALL OF FAME JOHN F. HEFFERNAN, 28 Riverside Avenue, Red Bank, NJ. 07701 died Feb. 16 of a stroke, suffered three days prior. For many years, John was a highlyregarded law assistant in the appellate division of the 
N.Y. State Supreme Court Brooklyn, from which position he recendy retired. In his campus days, John was a fine student— was well liked by his fellow students and by professors who taught him. We do believe that John won a monogram in track. He is survived by his wife, Agnes; a son. Dr. John T. Hefieman, 31 Seven Bridge Road, Little Silver, NJ. 07739; and a grandson, John F. Heffernan III. We of '22 extend our solace to the widow of the deceased, and other family members. Also, we extend our grateful thanks to GERALD J. CRAUGH '21, who so thoughtfully and kindly wrote us in this particular matter. Gerald resides at 111 Old Mill Road, Great Neck, N.Y. 11023. It is our sad duty to report the death of still another beloved dassmate, T. PIERRE CHAMPION, 13415 Shaker Boulevard, Mareland Courts, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, who died May 31. Pete, as he was known to every dassmate, had a lung operation in late Feb. and subsequently was given cobalt treatments. Pete was a retired president of the Champion Rivet Co., Qeveland, having joined them in '22 immediately after being graduated from ND. The firm was founded by his father in 1895 and was expanded with additional plants in East Chicago, Indiana, Mexico and Peru. Pete is affectionately remembered by Oeveland area friends for his interest and work in dvic affairs and projects, and for being so active in the charities. He received official commemoration by resolution of the City Council of Cleveland and the Catholic Charities Corp. He dearly loved ND and was intensely loyal to his class and class­mates. We are reasonably certain that he never missed a single 5 year class reunion. We extend our very deep sympathy to all members of the Champion family—^to the widow, Agnes; 3 ND graduate sons; DAVID '45, PETER '60, and WILLIAM '61; one daughter Mrs. Patrida Maria; 16 grand­children; and one great-grandchild. We gratefully thank son David '45 for his kindness in writing us at the very time he was hurrying to attend his 25th class reunion on the campus. David is district sales manager for Republic Steel 
Corp., Oeveland. Our classmate, GEORGE KERVER, offically represented our class at the funeral service, and we thank him for following through with a written report Also, we express our gratitude to NELSON CALLAHAN '23. 
DR. EDDIE ANDERSON was inducted into the Holy Cross College Hall of Fame at Worcester, Mass. on April 25 in recognition of his wonderful record as head coach of football at Holy Cross over a period of 21 years. We are indebted to Boston Globe sports columnist Jerry Nason, for writing these lines in the April 25 edition: "Dr. Eddie Anderson gets inducted into the Holy Cross Hall of Fame this eve, and there was some football coach, baby! (I will never forget the afternoon he raced on the field, snatched the refs whistle, pried open the clenched jaws of a stricken opposing player—and saved his life. The kid had swallowed bis tongue and was choking to death)." ND teammate and classmate CHARLIE CROWLEY of Weston, Mass., with Mrs. Crowley attended the testimonial ditmer for Dr. Eddie. Mrs. Edward B. (Joan) Bafley has been elected president of the Ladies of Charity of the Philadelphia Diocese. 

G. A. "Kid" Ashe 175 Landing Road, North Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
'23 GREAT ACTING 
Congratulations are in order to HARRY 
W. FLANNERY and his bride of last faU, Mary Heineman (nee Moriarity). They are living in the Hills near UCLA where she directs labor programs for the university's Institute of Industrial Relations, while he works on the sun-drenched patio in almost smog-free Beverly. In his letter, Harry neglected to say whether his work is mental or physical, but in acquiring Bill, his instant teen-age son in the deal, one might expect the Old Pro will again be turning to inspiration rather than perspira­tion. Something like Journalistic ESP must have prompted LOUIE to tell us at the USC game last year that he kinda thought Flan was again a Benedict! 
At long last, good news that HI HUNT 
has (in his own words) again "out-foxed 
the devil" by surviving a second major 
operation in the space of 4 months time, 
as we all prayed he would do. Having once 
prescribed for him my cure for bursitis 
that actually helped him, or so he says, he 
thinks me qualified to inquire of the class 
if there are any other '23ers with a plastic 
aorta. (Anyone with an aneurysm repair 
job?) Says he will be driving a '70 Chrysler 
to the reunion in '73, but since he plans to 
C/JV-retire again before then, may need to 
ask for time off to even attend same. Will 
put him down for a physical when he 
arrives. 
Also a note from His Honor ROGE KILEY commenting on the "burdensome job" I fell heir to, and how my shoulders were "amply broad to accommodate it." Little does he realize there is not enough literacy above those shoulders to make a go of it. In that regard Pres. SHEA on June I2th at Morris Inn called a meeting of the executive board B.C. (Before Cocktails). In attendance were NORTON & WAL­LACE, past-presidents, plus KREIMER, wearing his Spiro hat, but Judge NYIKOS could not be present due to a full calendar in the Circuit Court. A list of possible replacements for the job of secretary was discussed at considerable length, and the class will be informed when agreement is reached with the selectee. 
Elsewhere in this issue, provided the ALUMNUS staff is on its toes, you will note the June 17th death of F. LESLIE LOGAN JR. '51, at age 44. He was president of Vim Sporting Goods Store in Fort Wayne, which our LES was connected with for many years. Called at Mungovan's new mortuary to extend sympathy of the class to his widow and his mother. 
Another casualty! Don't be surprised if now after 40 years in business, you no longer can find a BRUGGNER'S Down­town Store in South Bend. Due to a heavy fire loss in late spring it had to be closed for several months, and only now the contents andfixtures are being auctioned off. Lou's widow and son Bill will continue to operate the nine-year-old branch in Town & Country Shopping Center on US 20 at the eastern city limits, plus a pcKsiUe second store in a new Shoppers Mall south of town, when necessary backing is found. Interested, anyone? 
Edward P. Kreimer, Acting Secretary 2827 Westbrook Dr. No. 233 Fort Wayne, Ind. 46805 
'24 EDITORIALIZING This column is forced to editorialize a little because of lack of specific news about our classmates. It was assumed that there would be no publication during the sunnier months. But TOM SULLIVAN in his parting advice as managing editor revealed that another deadline for copy is June 22. You will probably be reading it at your summer home if you have reached that state of affluence, or during your summer vacation if you still are actively engaged in gainful employment. I presume most of us are just simply "retired." 
A very interesting column could be composed if a number of classmates would simi^y drop me a note with the information of how and when they progressed from active status to retired; what they do now to keep busy. It would be most interesting and perhaps helpful like a "sensitivity session," or the bull sessions back in the good old days of "20 to '24. This is how we learned about each other and how class and school spirit was nurtured. Ill start it and hope you will excuse the use of first-person personal pronoun. That sounds like I'm still a "square" doesn't it? Retired two years ago as Northwest div. mgr. for the Construction Materials Div. of W. R. Grace & Co. . . . went back to school for refreshers in philosophy and found they now refer more to specifics such as "behavioral studies" . . . received my A.B. degree with a major in psychology . . . and incidentally fell into a professional counsdor job. It keeps me active mentally like a model "T' in a present-day patriotic parade. (Now, let's have more of these thumbnail autobiographical notes.) 
Some random addresses and reminders of old friends we may have lost track of over the years. Say "hello" to them, neighbors: DR. KELVIN A. KASPER CL "24 is attached to Wills Eye Hospital, Phila., Pa., 19104; E. NEWELL DeGURSE LLB '24 1324 Porter St., Apt. No. 13, Detroit, Mich. 48226; PAUL FRANCIS DePAOLIS ChE "24, 1549 Western Ave., Glendale, CaUf. 91201. G. DON SULU­VAN "24 of Lorton, Va. has been appointed to the President's Air Quality Advisory Board. He is a consultant to the American Mining Congress, specializing in environmental control problems of the mining industry (my first opportimity to use the word ecologist since learning what it means). 
James P. Durcan 5400 SW SchoUs Ferry Rd. Portland, Ore. 97225 
'25 irS ALL OVER It just doesn't seem possible our 45lh reunion is a thing of the past and our SOth is next JAMES ELLIOT ARMSTRONG suggested and the idea was approved by the crowd assembled after the Alumni Banquet that our class get together at the Purdue game Sept. 26th. You will be advised of the location in plenty of time before the game . . . BUT ORDER YOUR "nCKETS. 
It will be OX. to have guests join us. 
Our reunion attendance was appronmatdr 
65 out of ISO still with us. 
The class banquet speakers had a few 

dianses because BISHOP MUSSIO was 
unaMe to be with us as be was cddirating 
his Silver JubOee. EDWARD KRAUSE. 
Athletic Director and ELMER LAYDEN 
talked and Circuit Judge JOHN J. 
KILKENNY gave a well-prepared talk on 
"Crime in the streets and luirest on the 
campus." JIM ARMSTRONG gave an 
excdlent report on happemofs on our 
Campus. Before the formal part of the 
program HANK WURZER t*ve *n account 
of his Mass Fund. Your secretary presented 
Hank with a set of cuff links and key 
ring in behalf of the class for his dedicated 
work as treasurer. Tlianks to LEO POWERS 
and JIM ARMSTRONG for their hdp to 
make the teuniott such a success. We IUMI it 
deluxe in Flatmer Hall . . . air-conditioi>ed 
and a beautiful hospitality room. Since Ac 
reunion JIM ARMSTRONG sent some dass 
notes: "BRO. HYACINTH SNUTECKI 
informed me his reunion plans were 
cancdled by a call to the Brothers Sdio<ri 
in Rome, whae be will be all summer, 
possibly an year. FRANK STEEL may 
have uM you that JOHN KANFS wife was 
scheduled for an operation which kept John 
away. DAN O'NEIL'S reunion was missed 
because of a round-the-world tour." Con­
gratulations to DR. CYRIL CALDWELL 
who was made "Man of the Year" for the 
Cleveland area last month. HANK 
WURZER gave out and mailed the list of 
deceased members of the class. CHARLES 
L. BAUMGARTNER. 1155 E. Donald. South Bend, died last month and EVERARD KOHL, 16920 Edgewater Dr.. aeveland, Ohio, died May 24th. Add these two classmates to your list Class prayers are asked for MIKE ADRIAN, Scott Citde, White nains, who is seriously iU. 

192S Attendees 
JAMES ARBISTRONG. E. J. BAKER, JOHN 
A. BARTLEY, JERRY BENNING, M. i. 
BOLAND, JOSEPH P. BURKE. CYRIL 
CALDWELL, CHARLES J. CASEY, 
LAWRENCE T. CASEY, THOMAS COMAN. 
JOHN W. COURTNEY, GECMIGE DRISCOLL, 
PETER DUPAY. VIRGIL FAGAN, ROBERT 
K. GCntOON, TOM GOSS, LEO J. GRACE, 
C. P. HAFEL, HAROLD HALL. CLARENCE 
HARDING. BROTHER NORBERT HENSKE 
CSC. FRANK W. HOWLAND. JOHN P. 
HURLEY, JOHN A. KELLEY, BEN 
KESTINC, JOHN KILKENNY. GECMIGE 
LAUGHUN. ELMER LAYDEN. BERNARD 
LIVERGOCM). THOMAS LOFTUS, GECNtGE 
LUDWIG, EDWARD LUTHER. FRANCIS 
McFADDEN. JOHN D. MAHON, DON 
MILLER. GERALD W. MILLER. WILLIAM 
R. MOLONY. JOHN R. MCMtAN, CHARLES 
MOUCH. ALFRED C. MUELLER. FRANK 
MURRAY, LEO J. POWERS. PAUL 
ROMWEBER. ROBERT ROSS, JOHN W. 
SCALLAN. GILBERT SCIMEFER, ALBERT 
A. SOMMER. FRANK E. STEEL. JOHN P. 
TRAYN(». WILLIAM E. VOOR. MORT 
STETTAUER. WILFORD V. WALZ, 
HENRY WURZER. 
John P. Hurley 2085 Btookdale Rd. 
Toledo, Ohio 43606 
'27 MARKINGS 
By chance, these notes are being written on your secretary's birthday—his 65th. This is one which in its way is as significant as was the 21st. Undoubtedly most of us will observe similar birthdays during the current year. For many, it marks the year in iriuchretirement begins—for aU it at least brings the opportunity to qualify for Mediore. a status which I am sure every­body meets with mixed emotions. In aiiy 
NEW PLACES 


The Buckleys at home. 

Louis F. Buckley '28, teacher of economics at ND from 1929 until 1941 and class secretary since his graduation in 1928, has been professor of economics at Chicago's Loyola U. since 1967, teaching in the Graduate Institute of Industrial Relations. Between 1941 and 1967 most of his time was spent in government service, chiefly in the areas of labor and social security. Among the agencies which have profited from his many talents are the Social Security Board, the War Production Board during Worid War 11 and various ofiBces of the Department of Labor. Even while so employed he frequently managed to continue evening teaching, at Catholic U., Western Reserve, Loyola and Fordham. In connection witfi his Labor Dept. work he has traveled extensively in Western Europe, in Iron Curtain countries, including Russia, and in the Middle East, including Israel. During 1945-46 he taught at American U., Biarritz, France. Pictured with him in 
his Chicago home is his wife, 

Pauline, who has been typing his 
class-of-1928 notes for almost 40 years. The picture of Martin Luther 
King Jr. is evidence of Prof. Buckley's admiration for the black leader, and the ND beer mug, he says, "is indicative of two of my hobbies, beer and ND." Others include reading, foreign travel and the writing of 
articles and book reviews. A recent project has been a study of unemploy­ment in Chicago under a grant 
Rev. William Craddick CSC '30 was a prefect of religion from 1939 to 1949, a span which iocloded the war years when he was also chaplain to the midshipmen in training and the Navy personnel on campus. For the next 12 years he was master of novices at the Holy Croa Fathers' novitiate, first in South Bend and then in Jordan, Minn., when the novitiate was moved there. Since 1961 he has been assistant provincial of the CSC Indiana Province. He takes care of many of the administrative details that arise in dealing with some 500 priests and Brothers and 90 student-candidates in schools, parishes, missions, seminaries and other in­stitutions and activities of the Prov­ince. He is acting provincial when the provincial, Fr. Howard Kenna, is away visiting the personnel and establishments of the Community in this country and abroad. Last winter Fr. Craddick himself had an "in­spection-tour" type visit to these priests and brothers and institutions in East Pakistan, Uganda and Europe. 
Rev. William J. McAuMe CSC '37, assistant dean of students 1952-56, rector of St. Edward's HaU 1956-58 and of Cavanaugh 1958-60, then pastor of Sacred Heart parish on the campus for two years, is now in charge of direct-mail fund-raising for the support and education of CSC candidates for the priesthood and brotheriiood. His operation, an arm of "Province Development," is located in St. Joseph Hall, the old Moreau Seminary. 
The following former members of the faculty are still active elsewhere: Rev. PhiUp L. Hanley OP teaches at Aquinas College, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Rev. Lawrence T. Murphy MM is attached to the Maryknoll Fathers' public relations and fund­raising operation on East 39th St. in New York; Mr. H. Lee Hope (who followed Joe Casasanta as director of the band) operates his own music store in Evansville, Ind.; Mr. Cecil Birder is in Minneapolis, Minn. 
Rev. John Wilson CSC Box D Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

r 
event, the attainment of the mature age of 
65 is another milepost When we were 
graduated in 1927 we looked confidently 
ahead to the future. The exercises at the 
conferring of degrees were truly a com­
mencement. Later, as we turned 35 or so, 
we realized that we had a past as well as a 
future. Now we are obUged to note that 
the past has taken on formidable propor­
tions and the future is dwindling indeed. 
For the most part, our families are grown 
and we find that we bestow upon oiu­
grandchildren exactly the same affection 
that we do upon our children. We view the 
changing scene in the worid with some 
misgivings, but we must admit that our 
role is becoming more that of spectators 
than participants. Whether the changes will 
be good or bad I hope that we all can 
stay around for many more years. 
JOE NULTY, BILL DEGNAN and ART 
MONACO were guests of JIM QUINN at 
the Colonia Countiy Club for lunch during 
the merry month of May. Art Monaco 
reports that they had a ball, enjoying food 
and libations and exchanging stories from 
the old days at ND. He adds that Jim is 
doing a great job for Summa and feels 
and looks good. 
Regretfully I must report the deaths of 
two classmates: EDWARD E O'BRIEN 
died on Feb. 16lh and JULIUS C. McCOY 
passed away on Feb. 27fh. A Mass is 
being said for each of them, and I have 
extended the sympathy of their classmates 
to their respective fainilies. 
Clarence J. Ruddy 
HI W. Downer Place 
Aurora, Illinois 60504 
'28 PLENTY HERE JOHN S. CULLEN died in Buffalo, N.Y. on April IS, 1970 after an illness of three months. Jack was district mgr. in Western New York for the International Appraisal Co. of Pittsburgh. He is survived by his wife and four children. PEARL 
L. MOORE suffered a heart attack and died while working in his garden in Wharton, NJ. JOHN LEITZINGER represented the class at the funeral services for Pearl in Grampian, Pa. Surviving are his wife and five children. Peari was employed by the Picatinny Arsenal of the US Army at Dover, NJ. Peari attended our 25th-year reunion. Our sincere sympathy to ORVILLE MURCH on the death of his wife and to SWEDE SCHROEDER who lost both parents recently. 
Congrats to FRITZ WILSON who is the new National Monogram Club President; to Judge GEORGE BEAMER who was selected as the Man of the Year by the Calumet ND Club; to GEORGE COURY who was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Commercial Science by Biscayne College and whose daughter was chosen "Bride of the Year" in Miami. Incidentally, it is unfortunate that we are not having a class reimion this year to again obtain advice from George, who continues to successfully time the turn in the market and was referred to recently in the press as one of Miami's shrewdest stock market investors. Add the following to the list of 30 retirees whom I have already mentioned: JOE DOYLE, FRANCIS DAVID, HAROLD CANAVAN, MARTIN KIRWAN, BUCKY DAHMAN, JOE DORAN, JOHN BRANNON, ED DIRINGER, JIM HURLBERT. Add the following as semi-retired: EUGENE FARRELL (see March-April ALUMNUS, 
p. 20), GENE O'BRIEN, J(»lNRODGERSk BOB NICKELLS, JOHN POUSKY. JOE HILGER, GEORGE SCHEUER. who incidentally after retiring from the SouA Bend Tribune is now chief copy editor in the Department of Information Services atND. 
We are now reaching the great-grand­father stage. JOHN FORGE is the first to report, with three great-grandchildreii. Incidentally, John also has 26 grand­children. Let's hear from others on this subject. GEORGE KELLEY, while having breakfast near Eimis, Ireland, found JOE McNAMARA seated at a nearby table. This reminded me that I met BILL BROWN a few years ago at the Shannon Airport BILL JONES met JACK McSORLEY last summer at an audience with the Pope. How about some other '28 meetings throughout the world? FRED SOLMAN was with FRANCIS MEYER and PHIL CENEDELLA on the Italy-ND tour. Other recent travelers include HENRY MASS­MAN (Scandinavia and Leningrad), DICK GREENE (Japan and Hawau). JIM CONMEY (Eastern Europe), SWEDE SCHROEDER (Mexico), GENE FARRELL (Iceland, Finland), JIM HURLBERT (London), BILL DOWDALL (Balkans, South Africa, Europe), and VINCE CARNEY exidored the excavations at the Vatican. Remember to drop me a card on your next trip. 
TOM BYRNE is home after eight months in the hospital. Dr. Nowacek, the son of one of my closest friends, performed suigery on Tom's hip. MIKE HOGAN is recover­ing after cataract surgery. FRANCIS DAVID has recovered from heart surgery. BILL KEARNEY and Father GEORGE BENACLIA are recovering from heart attacks. DENNY DALY suffered a broken hip and CARL PETTERSCH had abdomunal surgery recently. Judge JOE KINNEARY is back on the bench after an emergency appendectomy. It looks as if we will have a record turnout again at our ISth aimual post-game 18 class cocktail party after the Purdue game on Sept 26th. Eariy returns include the following who plan to attend: G. SHEIBLEY, J. SHEEDY, J. MORRISSEY, 
A. MILLER, A. GRAMS, J. CONMEY, 
V. WALSH, P. CANNY, F. SCHROEDER, 
F. MCCARTHY, M. HOGAN, W. BUSH­MAN, T. MAHON, W. MURPHY, BUCKY DAHMAN. ED QUINN has arranged for us to have this affair again in the Monogram Room of the Athletic and Convocation Center just east of the stadium. A buffet w3I be served. Plan to be with us. 
JIM SHOCKNESSY has been making news regidarly as one of the trustees of the well-publicized Ohio State University. GEORGE COURY is a trustee at Biscayne College and Barry College. Your class secretary represented the class at a reception in honor of BERT KORZEN, Democratic candidate for Treasurer of Cook Coimty. I am aware of the sons of the following class­mates receiving degrees at ND in June: TOM MAHON, JOHN ANTUS, FRITZ WILSON, and VIC FISCHER. Are there others to be added to this list? BILL DWYER's son received his law degree at our Loyola University com­mencement. 
It was good to bear from CHILE WALSH. I was very sorry, however, to be advised of the sad iKws of the death of his wife on May 17, 1%9. Many of you will remember Chile's wife as Mary Grace 
Crockell, who was queen of the Mooofam 
Ban. 1927. 
Thanks for your many letteis lecehred in 

June. I regret that my space limitalioii 
makes it impossible to inchide reference 
to an of them in this ciriimm. Keep the 
news comiiig and I wiU get the rest of it 
to you in the next issue. 
Louis F. Buckley 
6415 N. Sheridan Rd. 
Chicago, in. 60626 
'29 FROM ROME, WnH LOVE We ask your prayers for the soul of HILMAR HEVER. AB '29, who died Feb. 19, 1970. His survivors are bis soteis Miss Marie and Miss Leone of 6422 N. Magnolia, Chicago, m. We send them our condolence and assurance of remembrance of their intentions in our prayers. We have this news from LOUIE REGAN, 5101 Lake Ridge Rd., Edina, Minn. 55436, "I retcced from Sears at the end of January after 32 tnqr and rewarding years. Fran and I win have more time to travd and catdi up with old friends around the countiy. I may be able to get back to ND more often too. A year has now passed since our 40lh dass reunion. It was a grand get-together—hope we can an make our 4Sth!'' 
Our sincere thanks to a good fiiend of ILLE (BILL) BYRNE, who lecentfy visited lUe in the hospital Die is aflficted with emphysema and a serious heart and hmg condition. He enjoys the few cards and letteis be receives from his classmates of '29. This is an appeal to you to give a few minutes of your time to a truly loyal ND man, one «dio on the campus and later in Northern Calil, where he kept the ND Club aUve (as president as wdl as a worker), gave generously of faimsdf. His address is 414 DORCY, AFIOS, CAU­FORNIA 95003. Your secretary, and wife Margaret are in Florence, Italy, this Sunday night in mid-June as a direct result of your generosity 12 short months ago at the time of the 40lh Reunion. The past few days, our first ever in Rome, Assisi and FloreiKe, have been so fuU that it seems impossible that five days ago we were stiB at O'Hare in Chicago. Prof. JAMES DANEHY '33 and wife Margaret were here nine years ago and have been our com­panions and competent guides. If one nmst leave the wonders of the Vatican and aU that is Rome we recommend AssisL St Francis is buried above and bdiind the altar of the ciypt of the cathedral there. We attended Mass at his tomb. It seems utterly impossible that he could have accomplished what he has for us. He didn't look for the easy way to do what many profess to be doing now. His brand of love has a base and a depth and a faith that is an inspiration. Here htmible folk stiU inay with fervid conviction. Religion and moral values seem to become inseparaUe fiom aesthetic values, a kind of beauty. The example of the invisible inhabitants of Assisi seems ever present... it foOows one. 
(Two days later, again in Rome.) We'have come to the conclusion already, that the greatest thing we have seen a vAat we have seen most recently, it's like "Uking the girl I'm with." Today that would be St Jdm Lateran, the Cathedral of Rome, where the beads of both St Peter and St Paul are over the main altar. And the dark piece of wood behind the Cbapd of Repoae is that of the taUe of the Last Sapper,.... and aiDund the comer are the 28 muMe 
steps from the House of Pilate in Jerusalem, 
up viiich Christ walked to be condemned. 
It seems that there will be no end to things 
one wants to see. Many of you have been 
here and know exactly what I mean. 
We trust that many of you will be 
watching the Purdue-ND game and that 
all will, even if for oidy a vety short time, 
stop by at the after game get-together in 
the Engineering Building immediately after 
the game. 
L. F. Stauder Dept of Electrical Engineering Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6 
'30 REUNION NOTES 
The fortieth reunion attracted a veiy good 
turnout of the class. About 25 members 
arrived as early as Thursday, but the 
greater niunber pulled in on Friday. Some 

late comers such as BO RICHARDS and 
TOM LANTRY made it only for the 
Alumni Banquet and the late Saturday 

features. And the latest arrival of all was 
BOB JACKSON from Columbia, Mo. on 
Sunday morning. TOMMY SHEA (Conn.) 
of the Class of 1929 came out from the 
East with FATHER JIM RIZER and 
TIM TOOMEY, Reunion Chairman. 
This was Tommy's first visit to ND 
in 41 years, and he toured the whole 
campus. Other alumni joining the 1930 
class were CHRISTY FLANIGAN '28, 
CLETE SCHNEIDER '29, JIM CURRY 
'29, PHIL CENEDELLA '28, and FRANK 
FLYNN '29. 
DAN CANNON headed a delegation of reunionites to the seminar conducted on university problems and student power. He and GEORGE O'MALLEY kept everyone abreast of the more serious discussions on the reunion program. KARL BRENNAN brought his son to the reunion. This young man, a recent graduate of ND, is now a Jesuit scholastic and two years away from ordination. The memorial Mass for deceased members of the Class was said in Stanford chapel, and concelebrated by FATHER LEONARD COLLINS, CSC, and Father Jim Rizer. Memorial folders listing the names of 128 deceased class members had been distributed beforehand. I will send you a copy if you drop me a note requesting it The 25 early arrivals had dinner Thursday evening in the rathskeller of the University Club. Several speeches were attempted, but were termi­nated at the end of the one sentence by the reception given them. 
Letters from GEORGE WINKLER, TOM McDOUGAL, PAT GOGGIN, BOB MCDONALD, and BILL BAMBRICK expressed deep regret at having to miss the 40th conclave. George had been ill and his doc wants him to take it easy for a while. BOB HOLMES and PAUL FARMER of South Bend did an able job in setting up arrangements for the reunion. Bob, as local chairman, conducted a class election at the Friday night dinner in the University Qub. The Holmes organization withstood a fierce floor attack by DON SULLIVAN and ED REDMOND, and the Regulars turned back the Rebels. Tim Toomey was chosen class president for the next five years, unless impeached during that period. 
We were pleased to have the following guests join the class at the Friday night cocktail party and buffet: Father Leo 
R. Ward of the philosophy department (now retired), Ray Schubmehl, assistant dean of Engineering and Professor Andrew 
Smithberger of the Eotfiih deputmeoL 
Since reunion time, we have leuned of 
the death of FRANCIS DUNN. June 13, 
1970. Also, the information jiKt readied 
Notre Dame that JAMES WILUAMSON 
had died back on January 8, 1965. CtaB 
members will, I am sure, lanember bodi 
of them and their familia in prayer. 

1930 Attendees 
ANDREW AM.AN, LUCHAEL J. BISHKO, 
AUGUST BOND!, KARL BRD(NAN. 
WILLIAM H. BROMANN, J( » BUTLER, 
DAN F. CANNON. JOHNJ. CASSIDY, JOHN 
CAUTHIER, LOUIS C. CHAFLEAU, 
ROBERT A. COONEY, GORDON COPFS, 
WILLIAM DONLEVY. GEORGE E. DOYLE 
JR.. FRANK C. EATON. EDWARD ELLS­
WORTH, ARTHUR ERRA. PAUL FARMER, 
TOM FROST, CHICK GRUNING. LOUIS 
HASLEY, JOHN HEALY. BOB HELLRUNG, 
GEORGE HEWSON, JOHN N. HOFFMANN, 
JERRY HOLLAND, ROBERT HOLMES, 
HENRY T. HORKA. THOMAS A. KEEGAN, 
LUKE KELLY, LEO KENNELLY, 
MARSHALL KIZER, CLARENCE JOH N 
KOZAK, BAYARD KURTH, TOM LA LONDE, 
FRED LANSING, JIM LEAHY. JAMES C 
LEAHY, CHARLES LENMON. WILLIAM J. 
MCCARTHY, VINCE MCCUE. JAMES 
MCDERMOTT, J<MIN MANNING. HAIHUAN 
MANSKE. NICHOLAS MAURIQJJO. TOM 
MEDLANO. JOHN T. MORAN, JOHN V. 
MORAN. JAMES L. MULVANEY. F. JAMES 
NAVARRE, JOHN J. O'DONNELL, JMFES 
O'KEEFFE, GEORGE O'MALLEY, WILLIAM 
O'MALLEY. ARTHUR E. FETERSEN, 
DEVERE PLUNKETT, GIL FRENIMXGAST, 
EDWARD REDMOND. WILLIAM REISERT, 
SAMUEL E. RICHARDS, JOHN T. ROCAP. 
JOHN H. RONEY, BUD ROSEWARNE. IHCK 
SAVAGE, WILLIAM SHERMAN, AL SHIPA­
CASSE. JACKSON SIGLER. SAM F. 
SILVESTRO. HOWARD B. SLAVIN, 
CHARLES SMALLWOOD, DONALD O. 
SULLIVAN, JAMES W. SULLIVAN, 
RICHARD SULLIVAN. TIM TCXJMEY, 
DONALD VOSS, JOHN D. VOSS. JOE^ A. 
WALKER, WILLIAM WALSH. GEORGE 
WEBER. 
Devere T. Plunkett 
College of Arts and Letters 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'31 BRING THE TROOTS HOME Immediately following the Anny-Notre Dame game oiu* class will held a reunion cocktail party in the Monogram Loonge of the Convocation Center. This same a£hir last year was enjoyed by SO dassmates and it is hoped that it will be a greater success this year. As usual, some indintion of die number attending is necessary for proper arrangements. A ixite indicatins your intention to be present, PLUS SOME NEWS, wiU be most bd|rfuL BOB KENDALL'S son Robert, a member of the Sodety of Jesus, was ordained June 6th at Phoenix, Aiiz. FRANK HOLLAND phoned to say that he had seen his brother JERRY and several of the 1930 class who attended their 40lh reunion this June. Which brings up our own dass reunion next June. We will have betai alumni for 40 years. I trust that attendance next year will better our previous records. It is not too early to make piais and your letteis to dassnuites will hdp generate enthusiasm necessary to a succesfiil reunion. I hope that all of you have a wonderful summer and that maity win plan 
on attending the cocktail party following the Army-Notre Dame game October 10th. 
James T. Doyle 
1567 Ridge Avenue Evanston, lU. 60201 
'32 A GOOD FEAST It's usually feast or famiiie. lU s time you have been generous. Let's start with my trip to Chicago in May. FRAN OELERICH met me at die airport Saturday and I stayed ovemi^t with him 
and Hden—my favorite. They had a 
Sunday brundi for me with DICK and 
BABE OELERICH and JIM and Oive 
(nee Odeiich) IGOE. We had a UasL 
We also figured out that FRANK 
OELERICH SR. '06 has 20 grandchadren 
and 30 great-grandchildren. Fran's 
JOHNNY '65 married Kate DUF­
FECY. she being the dau^ter of 
MIKE '28 and Josephine of Indianapolis. 
Out of the blue a welcome letter &om 
TERRY DILLON saying nice things about 
my column. Terry saw ED MELCHIONE 
and GENE CALHOUN in California and 
both are wdL He mentioned, jealously, 
that Igoe bad a 74 in a Chicago golf 

tournament and got his name in the Chicago 
Daily News. Haven't seen our good friend 
JOHNNY CC«.VILLE latdy but his son 
Bob works next door to me and daughter-
in-law. Judy—as cute as they come—is 
down the block with United Airiines. 
PAUL OTOOLE reports he feels great 
and relates his son Rev. Paul OToole 
officiated at the marriage of PAUL HOSTS 
dau^ter. Karen. Also married Nancy 
OTOOLE. dau^ter of DON '31 and 
Marian Geddes, St Mary's '31. If I get 
anyone mixed up forgive me but Father 
Paul also tied the knot for Paul's 
dau^ter Mary Aim, St Mary's '68 and 
TOM McKENNA '68 and later baptized 
their son. Whose son? Oh, forget it 
Thanks Paul. FRANK A. CONSOLATI, 
55 Meredith Cirde, Milton, Conn., has 
been named technical services engineer-
customer products for New England 
Telephone. VERNE W. HUBER C.L.U. 
has retired from Northwestern Mutual after 
38 years. On June I, 1954, he became 
general manager of die Odikosh district 
The agency now has a total insurance in 
force of $179 million. 
SorrowfiiUy. we record the passing of ART HIMBERT. I wish there were space to print the entire obit that appeared in the Herald. I have never read a more doquent. sincere tribute. Its opening sentence said. "Tiines changed, but time never changed Art Himbert" It dosed, two columns later with "He had no worries about his own future, for his faith in life everlasting was complete. And indeed he had no reason to worry, for if heaven isn't for people like Art Himbert, then iriiat's a heaven for?" 
Florence J. McCarthy 
6 River Road 
Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583 
'33 BROTHERLY LOVE Our friend, RAY BRODERICK '35, has been nominated as the Republican candidate for Governor of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Ray is a former president of the Notre Dame Law Association and has been acdve in our alumni affairs for 35 years. His wife, Maijorie, is the daughter of PAT BEACOM, the captain of the 'OS ND football team. His address for congratulatory notes is: Hon. Raymond J. Broderick, 6408 Church Road, Philadelphia, Pa. 19151. 
The Navy-ND game will be in Phila­ddphia for HaUoween (Oct 31). PETE CONNELLY, LARRY SEXTON, and I will be suitably costumed to greet class­mates. Perhaps SAM HYDE win agree to lead a group of "trick or treatets" from NYC and environs. The hotd hosting the Irish win be die BENJAMIN FRANKLIN, 9di and Chestnut. Philaddphia, Pa. 1910S (215 922-8600). 

As of this writing nothing has been 
accomplished toward a reunion on the 
Purdue game weekend; however, any of 
us attending that fray may aniear at the 
Morris Inn before the event and pretend 
to be in the throes of a get-togetter. 
Just two years ago I started on this job 
as dass secretary. Thanks to all of you 
who were kind enou^ to write. Any news 
you send wiU be included. Sometimes the 
editors of the ALUMNUS cut the material 
because of lack of space. I send it right 
back! Although the secretary job is lowest 
ranking on the alumni totem pole, I do get 
an advance copy of the ALUMNUS. As 
I have mentioned, it has been pleasant to 
hear ftom (Ad classmates but shocking to 
receive the death notices. 
PHIL FAHERTY saw GEORGE ROHRS 
and JACK HOYT at the NYU game in 
the Garden. In addition to judicial duties. 
Judge MAURICE W. LEE is active in the 
national and state affiurs of the BPO Elks 
and just returned ftom a Peoria, HI., 
meeting with the brothers. See the Elks 
Magazine for details. ROBERT J. FLINT 
died in his sleep, January 13, 1970. For 
many years he had practiced law in 
Cbudersport, Pa., but recently served as a 
hearing examiner for the Social Security 
Administration in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
JACK KENNEY, who went to Penn Law 
School with him and kept in touch over the 
years, said there were no surviving relatives. 
His mother, who lived to a great age, 
predeceased him. A friend of mine, who 
knew him in the SSA, said Bob had had a 
heart condition and was {danning a 
transfer to the milder climate of Puerto 
Rico. Iremember him as a very serious 
student at ND who had a great love for 
Irish culture and tradition. May his soul 
be quickly on its way to God! 
DR. JAMES P. DANEHY received the Brotheriiood Award from the South Bend-Midawaka Chapter of the National Conference of Christians and Jews at the 42nd anniversary Brotheriiood Dinner on May 21. Jim, a chemistry professor, has been on the ND faculty since 1951. He is a founder of the Catholic Interracial Council of South Bend. In the 1940's he was a pioneer in PAT CROWLEY^ Christian Family Movement Originally from Fort Wayne, Jim received a master of science degree in '34 and a doctorate in organic chemistry in '36. 
FRANK O'MALLEY '32 won the 1970 Award for excellence in teaching in the College of Arts and Letters. The award is named in honor of our classmate. Rev. CHARLES E. SHEEDY CSC, the former dean of the college. The $1,000 award was established by an anonymous donor. Very sad news from THOMAS A. "KITTY" GORMAN. He is on medical leave due to the adverse effects of another recent coronary difficulty, following which the surgeon had to insert a pacemaker. At the end of the year, Kitty win be placed on total and permanent disability retirement I sent him a brief note and said the '33 Class was still tooting for him, just as it did 35 years ago. Our prayers are for your speedy and comj^ete recovery, Kitty. 
The Alumni Office just notified me that JOSEPH H. WOODKA died April 19, 1970. A remembrance Mass was offered for Joe on the campus, April 26. Condolences may be sent to his widow at 3002 Miami St, South Bend, Ind. 
PHILIP J. RYAN died March 8, 1970. A remembrance Mass was said for Phil 
on May 31. The Alumni Office had 
no information as to surnvots butliii 
address was 4555 Van Noord Avenue, 
North HoUywood, Calif. 91604. Our 
dassmat^ FR. JIM DONNELLY, wiD olier 
Masses for Bob, Joe, and PUL 
Thank you. Father! 
We extend our deepest sympathy to 
NORM DUKE, iriiose wife, Pat, died 
suddenly May 21. As many of yoa w S 
remember. Norm brou^t his wife and little 
daughter with him to our 3Sth Rennioo 
in '68. His present address is 1340 Oxford 
Road, Maitland, Fla. 32751. Before hb 
unexpected loss. Norm had been on 
the campus as a member of die ahmmi 
senate. He met MAURIE DeWALD firon 
Fort Wayne and his son, MAURICE 
DeWALD JR., an alumni senator from 
San Jose, Calif. Norm says he is trying to 
pick up the loose pieces and plan for 
the future without Pat As you attend the 
football games this fall, please keep me 
informed as to the classmates you may see. 
From the address changes, I see that 
MARTY MORAN has moved to CHdahoma 
—the team can't be that bad, Marty. 
My home phone is (215) 446-5672. My 
office phone is (215) 438-5200, extension 
461. For you government peo^e my FTS phone is (215) 438-5461. 
Charies A. Conley 
100 East Tumbull Avenue 
Havertown, Pa. 19083 
'34 CHICAGO 
I drove my son, Ed Jr., to ND on June 14 for the summer sports jHogram. lids session will last for two weeks. Ed enjoyed his two weeks on the campus last year and wanted to return again this year. Attendance trilled over the number of boys who attended last year. Talked to BOB CAHILL and he informed me that he was returning to work on June 17. Bob had a mild heart attack on May 25. VINCENT J. REISHMAN passed away on May 12. I remember the i^ne dU we put through to Vince during our reunion last year. I was certainly sorry to receive the sad news of his death. Only two changes of address since our last report JOHN JOSEPH HENRY moved to 4329 Lawrence Street Alexandria, Va. 22309. PAUL ANTHONY MANOSKI can now be reached at R. No. 9, Huntington, Ind. 46750. DR. GEORGE C. BLAHA is listed as medical director. Cook County Hospital, 1825 W. Harrison Street in Chicago, 111., according to the new ND Club of Chicago directory. 
CHESTER BIESCHKE is President of Petroleum Heat and Power Co., 3301 
S. California Ave., Chicago. CHARLES 
C. BOLGER is owner of Bolger Farms Dairy, 7601 S. Western Av e Chicago. THOMAS C. BURKE, executive ass't to mgr., Hilton Hotels, 720 S. Michigan Ave., Chicago, in. RICHARD D. CAGNEY, president of Contracting i Material Co., 1235 Dodge, Evanston, in. 60204. 
CHARLES H. CAXKOLL, president Carpet Laying Service, 1150 E. Birchwood, Des Plaines, HL Saw Charies at a dinner held in the Palmer House in Chicago honoring Thomas A. Foran, former United States Attoraey for Northern Illinois. ROBERT THEODORE FITZSIMON is mgr. of maintenance for Abbott Labora­tories. Their idant is located in North Chicago, IS. GEORGE J. FOXEN is stiU living in West Chicago, BL 60185. 
VINCENT GARVIN FRANSKXJ Vmm in Ebolmit, DL Vincent is with Sean Roebnck Co, in Chicaao. Bodi he and Mrs. FnmsioG are vny actire in dmrdi and civic albin locally. WILUAM 
H. FROMM JK. is picsideat irf die Fromm Ctt., Mfr's Repi. Hie firm is located at 2136 N. ^ulem ATC^ Efanwood Park. m. FAUSTO -NICK" GAMBOA, fonnoly of Coba, is slOI with the Attoraey GeneraTs oflice for the State of Illinois. Vki. was forced to leaw Ciiba in I960. PtDod to say I am codbdier for his danghter, Maria, hom in Oak Faik, IIL JMIN P. G(M(MAN is a partner in the law fim <k. Clansen, Hitsdi, Miller and GonnaB. He can be reached at 135 S. LaSaDe St, Chicaao. EDMUND 
W. HAFNER now Ihrint at 4655 Kirdwff Road, Rpllii« Meadows, DL 60008. Eddie is a sales eugi. with Commonwealth Edison Co.. P.O. Box 435, Crystal Lake. m. 60014. 
C. THOMAS HELLWIG is with Fied B. Snite Furniture CO., 4732 N. Lincoln Ave., Chicago. EDWIN J. HOLMAN is with the dir. dbpL of Medical Ethics, American Medial Assoc, 535 N. Dearborn St, Chicago. JAMES O'SULUVAN KEARNS is Si. ot poHic rdations and promotion, Boiriing Pro­prietors Assoc, of Greater CUcago. Their office is located at 31 R Congress Parkway, Chicago. GEORGE GILMAN KELLY, partiKr Kdly ft Kdly, Attys.. Ill W. Washington St, Chia«o. ERWIN 
J. KIEP is the district sales manager. 
W. A. Taylor * Co., 500 N. Bfidugan, Chicago, liquor importers. JULIUS 
J. KIRALY is dnef plant and.. U. S. Gypsum Co., 300 W. Adams, Chicago. JOHS W. LACEY, n»sident John W. Lacey, Inc., display material sales pro. and rndsing. Ai ^ 645 N. Midiigan Ave., Chicago. LAWRENCE A. UCALZI, director of sales, Aristocrat Inns of America. 1020 S. Wabash. Chicago. Lawrence now lives in the new Jdm Hancock Ctater. 
Edward M. Moran 2501 N. Central Ave. Chicago, m. 60639 
'35 THE RECf«D BREAKERS Another ALUMNUS deadline requires me to write this cidumn only two days after the big reunion wcdtend, so it will be a condemed report of one of the most successful in 35 years. It was made so primarily by the return of 119 '35ers (per my records). lU i is just short of 30 per cent of living graduates and should come pretty dose to estabBshing a record for an classes. A few of the fdlows arrived on Wednesday and by Thursday afternoon there were 18 regi^red, as compared to the usual average of five at past reimiiHB. Our terrific chairman, JIM McCRALEY and his super-terrific wife. Vbfl, did some fast plaiming and had all of them at their home for a cocktail party, along with the South Bend committee menibers and their wives. A wdcome innovation this time was the appearance of several wives, so the patient and ondeistanding wives of the committee quickly organized and entertained diem Friday iKion and Saturday ni^ t Understand they had a bin, aiMl unani­mously decided to organize for a concerted eSDtt to get the gals back in I97S. They even came op with a corny but catdqr slogan: "Come forty. 
we oughta"—^Ugh! After considerable coaxing ANDY MAFFEl agreed to serve as toastmaster for the class dinner and did a masterful job. He steered the election of class officers during the dinner very adroitly, and with perfect timing— just as the fellows had polished off a bottle of wine, after cocktails a half hour earlier on the 50-yard line in the stadium, and were ready for their first bite of succulent steak. I always thought Andy had the makings of a politician! 
Your officers for the ensuing five years: ED VanHUlSSELING, president; ED SMITH, treasurer; BILL RYAN, secretary. Area vice presidents: JOE CONLON, East; CAMILLE GRAVEL, South; SID PETTINGILL, Southeast; JIM JENNINGS, Southwest; PHIL PURCELL, Rocky Mountains; GEORGE MELINKOVICH, Pacific; BOB SHANAHAN, Midwest; VINCENT HOGAN, VP at Large. All of them attended the reunion, and we were particularly happy to see Bob Shanahan. As related in a previous column. Bob is blind, but that didn't stop him from coming. Neither did a broken leg suffered by ED CULLEN, which occurred the Monday before the reunion, keep him from coming. We were pleased to have Professors Lee Flatley and Rufus Ranch with vs as our guests. Both of them spoke at the class dinner, as well as Moose Krause. In the next issue I will expand further on the festivities, and relate information picked up at the "bull sessions" about some of the returnees. It would be a big help to me if the reunionites who didn't give us a note about themselves at the desk in the Rock would send me a short note about them­selves to help keep this column going. As noted, my resignation in the previous issue didn't "take." On behalf of the committee, our profound thanks to all who returned. Jim McCraley was positive we would have over a hundred, and he sure was right. Also, to the many who offered to "bail us out" if we went into the red, sincere thanks. It won't be necessary because we made it 
From the Alumni Office we learned that ED LeJEUNE died on April 19, 1970, in Glenview, 111. Ed's two sons graduated from ND. JIM MacDEVITT sent me a note just prior to the reunion with a newspaper clipping announcing the sudden death of BILL SCHRODER. He pa^ d away on May 26 of a heart attack in Atlanta. Bill leaves his wife, two sons and two daughters. I also received a note from GEORGE KRUG too late for the previous issue stating that BOB ALBERT died in December, 1968, and Martin Hendele died in the summer of 1969. We extend the sincere sympathy of the class to their families. 
1935 Attendees 
RICHARD BALLIET, R. J. BALLMAN, 
WILLIAM BERNARD, BILL BERNARD, 
WILLL^^I BERNBROCK. EDWARD 
BRACKEN, JOHN A. BREEN, RAY 
BRODERICK. WILLIAM BURKHARDT, 
BROTHER FERGUS (WILLIAM C.) BURNS, 
BROTHER PATRICK CAIN, JOHN C. 
CARESIO. VICTOR CARTON, CHESTER J. 
CHANDLER, JOHN F. CLARK. JAMES J. 
COLL, JIM COLLERAN, JOSEPH W. 
CONLO.N. A. W. (TONY) CROWLEY, NEIL 
CROWLEY, EDWARD CULLEN, JEROME 
GUSHING, ART L. DEMERS. GEORGE 
DEMETRIO, JACK N'YE DUFFEY, FRAN 
DUNN. J. M. FAIRHEAD. DON FELTS, 
PAT FISHER, JOSEPH FITZMAURICE, 
THOMAS W. FLYNN, JOHN FOY, MICHAEL 
GAUL, WILLIAM GORGEN, BROTHER 
THADDEUS GOTTEMOLLER CSC, CAMILLE 
GRAVEL, ARTHUR GREGORY, LOUIS 

GROSSO, PAUL A. GUARNIERl, ARNOLD 
HACKENBRUCH, BOB HALEY, JOHN 

HALLBERG, JAMES HAMILTON, WILLIAM 
A. HEARN, PHIL HEINLE, WILLIAM B. 
HELME, THOMAS L. HICKEY, VINCENT 
HOGAN, JAMES HOWARD, LOUIS HRUBY, 
JIM JENNINGS, WILLIAM C. KEEFE. 
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY. PHIL KIRLEY^ 
ARTHUR KRANZFELDER, ANTHONY 

KUHARICH, VIC KURZWEG, G. ALBERT 
LAWTO.N, ROBERT E. LEE, JOE LYNCH, 
ANDREW R. MAFFEl, JAMES McAVENEY, 
WILLIAM JAMES McCRALEY, JOHN A. 
McELLIGOTT, JAAJES MacDEVITT, RAY 
MARGRETT, ARTHUR MARTIN, JACK 
MATTHEWS. GEORGE MELINKOVICH, 
C. R. MONTGOMERY, ARNOLD MORRISON, 
ARTHUR MULHOLLAND, HERBERT L. 
NADEAU, JAMES P. O'MEARA, JOE OTT, 
TOM B. OWEN, J.'S. PETTINGILL, JAMES 
PICK, JOHN POGUE, JOHN FORCORO, 
PHIL PURCELL, JERRY RANK, RUFUS 
RAUCH, ROBERT F. ROGERS, ALFRED 
RUBLY. WILLIAM RYAN, MATHIAS 

S.AGARTZ, MICHAEL SANTULLI, CHARLES 
M. SCHILL, JOSEPH W. SCHMIDT, 

ANTHONY SCOLARO, JAMES SEYMOUR, 
BOB SHANNAHAN, JAMES SHEILS, 

ROBERT J. SHIELDS, JOHN M. SHODRON, 
LAWRENCE W. SMITH, DOMINIC VAIRO, 
EDWARD VAN HUISSELING. DOMINICK 
VARRAVETO. FRANK J. VEE, ADRIAN 
WACKERMAN, JOSEPH T. WASHKO, 
FRED WEIDNER, TOM WELCH. TOM 
WILLIAMSEN, LINCOLN WURZER. 
William F. Ryan 
1620 East Washington 
South Bend, Ind. 46617 
'37 WHERE ARE THE REGULARS? 

I'm hopeful that on vacation you will write to the secretary. TOM HIGGINS starts off beating the drums for Missouri as soon as they appear on our schedule and he has a real interest there now that his daughter is a grad in special education. Also from Kansas City, EDDIE REARDON wiU have a big season at the U. of Iowa this fall with two sons Kerry and Jerry playing varsity. Kerry was the top pass catcher for Iowa last season and did most of the punting, averaging 36.9 yds. Ara could have used him. VINCE McCOOLA is the director of the Office for Aid to Nonpublic Education in Penna., and this is the first state to set up same. VINCE has a son at ND. Foreign correspondent is DON HENNESSY living in Ontario for 14 years, now secretaiy­treasurer of Wahl Clipper Corp. of Canada, family of seven and DON visits the U quite often. Lawyer ED NEARER has been named attorney for NY Eastern Dist. by Pres. Nixon. ED was a member of the big firm in NYC: Chadboume, Darke, etc. Report has J. F. FRONING, Kennett Sq., Pa., sending all his clan back to ND and SL Mary's for education. JUDGE JOHN MARBACH made the Westchester City news and also NY Daily News on rendering of a legal opinion. BOB WILKE, the old halfback and fine golfer, has undergone some surgery and could use a few extras from the class. Note from the office shows that LOU PURCELL is still in California and setting up for a good class reunioiL Also from Cal. we find GENE LING now in Santa Monica. DICK. DICE passed away in March, please remember him in your prayers. Try to write, times are tough, the secretary hasn't heard from the regulars, GILLESPIE, SCHWARTZ, SHEEDY, NIENABER or SIEGFRIED in a long time. I keep in touch with CLAEYS and KARL KING since No. 1 son is still able to remain in Zahm Hall. Would you believe wall-to-wall carpeting in the corridors? 
Joe Quinn 
P.O. Box 275, Lake Lenape Andover, NJ. 07821 
'38 WIN SOME, LOSE SOME 
It must have been quite a celebration— 
Father ADRIAN "JOE" RACE'S 25th 
anniversary of ordination at SL Stephen's 

in Milwaukee on June 7th, because I haven't 
heard from anyone yet concerning the 
details. A nephew's graduation kept me 
from attending. 

Incidentally, besides my son Matt, we had five nieces and nephews graduating from high school this spring, probably some sort of record—^mentioned to provoke comment from you lads as I've had only one letter for this issue. It was a first, however, from JOE CALLAHAN from 32 Manfield St., Merrick, L.I. 1IS66 who is idanning a trip across country in July vrith wife Mary and 14-year-old son, David, to visit the log chapel where they were married by Fr. Frank Cavanaugh in '49, and various class­mates along the way. Joe hopes to get as far west as California to visit his old roomie, "BUNNY" McCORMICK. We've invited him to stay and visit with us and other South Benders. Joe is still coaching high school football and teaching history and government, which he has been doing since WW II in Georgia, Florida, Connecticut and now in Long Island. 
Visited with JOE KUHARICH when he was here for the funeral of his mother. Joe is in charge of developing new franchises for the NFL, and looked trim enough to go out for one of the teams. At the annual monogram golf tourney TOM JORDAN won low net, which must have been correct because he had such outstanding account­ants as LEN SKOGLUND, TOMMY WUKOVITS and ANDY PUPLIS auditing the score. (One added, another subtracted and the third divided according to JOE ZWERS.) Low calorie scores at the banquet were turned in by CHUCK SWEENEY, JOHN MURPHY, DON HSHER, but not by me. 
A few classmates have moved per Alumni Ofiice. CLARK REYNOLDS to 95 Laurel Hill Rd., Mountain Lakes, NJ.; JOHN HEAD from Plainfield to P.O. Box 130, RockviUe, Ind.; DICK GERMANN to 14 Greenmount Blvd., Dayton, Ohio; JOHN FOLEY to 4392 Chateau De Ville Dr., St. Louis, Mo.; HANK MACKIN to 804 So. Greenwood, Kankakee, 111.; STAN MACDUFF to Box 427, Daytona Beach, Ha.; DAN COCHRAN to 1330 Uncoln, San Rafael, Cal.; DICK MOLLER to Rogers Lane, Ramsenburg, N.Y.; DON SMITH to Rt. 1, Cambridge, Wise. I too was moved from the legislature by the voters in the recent primary when I lost my bid for the State Senate by less than 200 votes. My son PAT, class of '66, however, won nomination for my House seat. Before the generation gap (!) is bridged, however, Helene and I will attend the National Legislative Leaders convention in Salt Lake City the last week of August—^in case any of you want to invite us to drop in on the way! In the meantime, don't be afraid to write—111 have more time to decipher, embellish, enhance, etc., your missives if need be. 
Bumie Bauer 
1139 Western Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46625 
'39 «BIG E" 
Is hereby awarded to DAVE MESKILL, JIM MOTSCHALL and J. K "PAT' GORMAN. Dave writes "pretty well involved with four in college. Katie at Northwestern for her master's in teaching. 

Patty, a freshman and Susan, a junior at 
Illinois. Tim will finish his master's in 
transportation at Michigan State this 
summer and thence two years of Army duty. 
Have seen PAUL RICE a courfe of times. JXJLIE TONSMEIRE has gone to Arizona with wife Betty (for her health). JOE SULLIVAN caUed from LitUeton, Mass., 
requesting Adelaide to file her annual report on apples (Note: He reputedly produces 
the finest apples since Adolph of the old fieldhouse—any samples, Joe?)." 
Sincerest congratulations to class prexy JIM MOTSCHALL upon his "Man of the Year" award by the Detroit Club at its UND night. Not mentioned was his thoughtful remembrance of the colorful brochures covering the 25th and 30th class reunions to all of us. Ditto to PAT GORMAN, honored for many years of dedication by the Washington, D.C. Club as its "Man of the Year." A talented gentleman with an ever present smile. We extend a sincere apology to the families of FRANCIS E. POWERS and JOHN F. JAEGER for the delay in expressing their classmates' sympathy and condolences upon the loss of husband and father and to TED '39 and AL '41 FRERICKS upon the death of their father. From the Alumni Office we learn that TOM KALMAN, state senator from Uniontown, Pa. since 1956 is off and running again. 30 'til 74 . . . unless someone comes forth. Who will win the "Big E" next? Special recognition will be a highlight of our next reunion. Promises, promises, alas and alack. 
Joe Hannan 
1804 Greenwood Dr. South Bend, Ind. 46614 
'40 MEN OF '40 Reunion on the Notre Dame campus, especially when the men of '40 are involved, is an experience which challenges any reporter to capture with mere words. Before 
relating any specific incidents let me mention the atmosphere of loyalty, camaraderie, nostalgia and sincere friendship which enveloped all present. Although the campus has expanded and new buildings are all around, the security and peace of mind connected with the old surroundings remains 
for everyone who turns to Our Good Lord 
and Our Lady of Notre Dame. It is a 
sensation which is common to all when 
returning to this campus. 
The ears of you who were unable to attend must have been ringing loud and long because as we were enjoying each other's company the most common phrase was either, "Where is ?????" or, "Wonder why didn't make it this year?" Without question there was as much conversation about our missing classmates and friends as there was about those present. The turnout was good (could have been better) and the ALUMNUS staff has promised to list all registrants so it is not necessary to rely on my "accurate" records. 
Probably the most disappointed man of '40 was JOHN "Mac" McINTYRE. He had been planning on this reunion longer than the committee, and CLIFF LETCHER explained that John was suddenly involved in special work at the very last moment, could not get away and was miserable. Others who forwarded advance registration, intended coming, but just couldn't make it, included: JOE ARMSTRONG, WALT FLEMING, BILL GEIS, JOHN HENEBRY, TOM LISTON, COLEMAN J. O'NEILL and BILL SMALL. Four classmates knew 
Congrats 

DONALD C. TIEDMAN "41 of Scarsdale, N.Y., has been promoted to associate general counsel of the New York Life Insurance Co. He has been with the firm since 1949 and is the father of four children. 
LYNDSAY R. deMANBEY '44 has been appointed secretary in the com­mercial lines, special accounts marketing, of the casualty-property department at the Travelers Insurance Companies in Hartford, Conn. 
CONALL J. KINGREY "49 has been named vice president and western zone manager of the Modem America Companies in Dallas. Formerly vice president and regional manager of a five-state sales territory, Kingrey joined the financial planning organiza­tion in 1964. 
JOSEPH P. HALLER '49 has been promoted to vice president of sales for the Stran-Steel Corp., a Houston-based manufacturer of pre-engineered steel buildings. He joined the company in 1959 and has served in various capacities until his promotion. 
GEORGE J. CHOPP '51 has been appointed assistant director of labor relations for General Dynamics Corp. in New York. In his new position he will be responsible for various labor relations activities for the parent company and its divisions and subsidiaries. 
RICHARD J. WOLLENSAK '52 has been named manager of Itek Corpora­tion's newly created project depart­ment within the Optical Systems Division in Lexington, Mass. After joining the firm in 1965 he last served as manager of the optics engineering department. 
they would be unable to attend but forwarded a donation to help with the refreshments and general needs of the dass. Thanks for a very good time to GB^E BICHON, TOM BRE^4NAN, Rev. PAUL HACKMAN and WAYNE WAHL. 
Once again our class was well represented at the Monogram Club banquet on Thursday evening. As usual JOHN KELLEHER was the first arrival for the weekend. BOB LAWRENCE came from Japan for the festivities accompanied by his handsome son, Bruce. CHUCK SWEENEY '38 was around taking care of JOE THESING, STEVE COUGHLIN and CHET SULLIVAN. Two of our athletes, FRANK BOODIE ALBERT and TOM O'REILLY, made the 30th as their first reunion. This was also the first for LEO FACTEAU and JAMES PENROSE. 
The huge pink elephant was the largest single item on campus, indicating that the class of '40 does everything in a big way. It was in position in front of Keenan Hall early Friday and the "MEN OF '40" banner spread across the elephant served as a guiding path between the refreshment tent and the hall both night and day. Frank Steflfaniak, father of DICK STEFFANIAK who served as chairman of our 2Sth, was our most honored guest at the class diimer. CHET GRANT was with us and recalled many interesting experiences. It is only proper that I repeat the wholehearted appreciation of all present to the local committee which once again did an out­standing job for the reunion that was greater than the last DICK BURKE, JIM DELAHANTY, JOHN (Doc) CURRAN and yours truly really enjoyed the oppor­tunity to work on this reunion. 
JIM DONOGHUEfiUed in for outgoing president JACK HENEBRY and finalized the election of the following officers: DICK BURKE, chairman and treasurer, JIM DELAHANTY, president, BOB SANFORD, secretary, and JOE CUMMINGS, HYMIE CRANE, AL KESSING, GERRY DONO­VAN and DON GILLILAND, regional vice presidents. There is so much more I want to tell you about reunion and our class, but we do have space limitations these days. In the future issues I will continue with "reunion reminiscing" until 1975. Please remember the father of HANK ROGERS in your prayers. I wish I coidd have done something to help Henry get away from reunion when he received the news, but we know this is the will of God. 
Please take special note of my new address at the close of the column. Kay and I have moved to Dayton where I will be teaching at the University of Dayton in the fall. Keep your promises and send all those news items you neglected to send in the past. It was a great 30th, the 3Sth will be greater. 


1940 Attendees 
STANLEY C. ADAMONIS, FRANCIS J. 
ALBERT JR., BOB BARBER, JACK BARRY, 
MAT BOND, JAMES G. BROWN, WILLIAM 
G. BURNS, RICHARD BURKE, BILL 
CANNON, PmLLlP CARROLL. ANTHONY 
L. CELLA, HANK COLLINS, STEPHEN 
COUGHLIN, HUGH CRANE, JOE CUM­
MINGS, JOHN CURRAN, JIM DANER, 
JAMES DONOGHUE, GERRY DONOVAN, 
ROBERT E. DOWD, HENRY ENGEL, LEO 
FACTEAU, WILLIAM FAY, FRANK FERGUS, 
THOMAS FLAD, DAVID J. FOX, ROBERT 
FROST, CHUBBY GILLILAND. BOB 
GRISANTI, JOSEPH L. GUCCIONE, 
FRANK GUNTER, GEORGE G. HAGGERTT, 
JOE HART. CURT A. HESTER. DANIEL 
HUSHEK, CHARLES K. HUTCHENS, DAVE 
HYDE, CECIL E. JORDAN, JOHN D. 
JULIAN, WILBER ^ 
KELLEHER, WILLIAM 

EDWARD KELLY. CHARLES .M....,^.. 
AL KESSING, TED KMIECIK. HUGH 
LAUGHNA, ROBERT H. LAWUENCX, J. 
CLIFFORD LETCHER, JOHN J. LINNTEAN, 
CHARLES MAGNER. JOHN J. MARTIN, 
BERNIE MASTERSON. THOMAS P. 

MCCARTHY, JIM MCRC»EKTS, JAMES P. 
METZLER, JOHN J. MLYNSKI, JAMES T. 
MOORE. JOSEPH O'CONNELL, JEROME J, 
O'DOWD. THOMAS J. O'REILLY, CHARLES 
PATERNO, HARRY PENROSE, RALPH 
POSrULA, JOHN G. FOULIN, LOUIS 

REILLY, ROBERT RODDAUGH, HENRY N. 
ROGERS. JIM ROGERS, RCWERT 

ROTHACKER. JERRY SAEGERT. ROBERT 
SANFORD. LEO A. SANTINI, WILLIAM 
SCHALLER, GERALD SEKTON. BEN 

SHERIDAN. WILLIAM SHALL, IX)N SHirH, 
JOSEPH SOTAK, CHET SULLIVAN. 

DANIEL SULLIVAN, WILLIAM TUCKER. 
WILLLUkf H. WALKER, FRANK W. WAIffiK, 
ROBERT WINDHEIM, ED WURTZEBACH. 
Robert G. Sanford 
1S68 Beaver Ridge Dr. 
Dayton, Ohio 45429 

'43 BACK ON CAMPUS Your secretary visited the campus on graduation weekend to return No. 1 sophomore-to-be son, Mike, home after his pairticipation in the ND Glee Oub's commencement concert and singing at the Baccalaureate Mass in the Athletic and Convocation Center. "Dean" Pedtke who directed the glee dub in our student days has comtdeted his 32nd successful year as director. No. 2 son, Pat, win also be at ND, come September. The Kaisers woidd appredate hearing from any sons or daughters of '43ers who will be at ND or St Mary's. 
I visited with the JACK WIEHIOFFS, JOE KEENANS, and BILL MIDDEN­DORFS who were on campus for their sons' graduation. Bin has just been dected to the ND Alumni Senate by the ND Washington, D.C. Qub. Also dutted with the JACK GRIFFINS who were there for the graduation of their son-in-law. Ihe Alumni Office reports that NashviUe, Term., business man, KENNETH B. SCHOEN, a partner in the investment firm of J. C. Bradford & Co. has been named to Who's Who in American Politics. 
Frank W. Kaiser 
307 Cherry Street 
Chatswortb, Ulinois 60921 

'44 GET OFF YOUR DUFFS! 
Fifteen months ago the Class of '44 hdd its 25th SDver Jubflee ReunioiL Everyone 
there agreed it was great Many lAo were unable to attend have commented on how they wished they coidd have been present AU that is history. The present and the future are what is important There were 
approximately 600 members of the 

class of '44. Time has taken its toU so today perhaps 500 are living. In com­
parison with the classes of recent years, the number. seems sman. Yf t, there shoidd be enough interested membeis iHu occasionally would contribute news items for this column. During die past two months two individuals were thou^tfiil enough to drop notes. To them, a sincere thank you! The percentage of partidpation is lousy, downright terriUe. Get off your dufis! A year ago good criticism of the colunm was made to your secretary. Most frequently the comments were about his comjdaining in the oohmm on the poor cooperation of fdlow class­mates in sending news. For ei^t issues that subject has been diminated but there were 
times when it was most difficult to prepare 
the column. In the future dther there is 
hdp from fdlow classmates or the Class 
of '44 cohinm win appear blank. Take 

your pick! It's your dedsioii. Enough said! 
Congratulations are in order for two old 
but young men. GEORGE BARISCILLO 
is the proud father of a new daughter 
iriifle VINCE DUNCAN is the beaming 

sire of twin daughters. There stiU is spark 
in '44ers. New Hampshire's gift to ND— 
JOE GALL—^was on campus recently 
and sent a card. Earlier in the year he 

vacationed in Puerto Rico and regretted he 
missed seeing BILL WALDRON iriio was 
there at the same time. TONY "Boom 

Boom" BILLOm, Queens ViUage, N.Y., 
wrote that his new neiAew Steve Tony 
McNulty win be the MIKE McCOY of 

the Class of '91. From the picture he sent 
of the kid, it seems like a good prediction. 
Tony bears from JOE McMANUS occa­
sionaUy and reported that aU is weU with 
the latter who Uves in Charleston, S.C. 
Joseph A. Neufdd 
Post Office Box 853 
Green Bay, Wisconsin 54305 

'45 ONE IN A MILLION The 25th was a tremendous success—an of us had a great time reminisdng, sodalizing, bragging a little, touring the campus, checking over the new High Rises, the Athletic and Convocation Center, the University Club and visiting the refurbished Sacred Heart Church. The boys made the daily trips to the Grotto. The committee under the chairmanship of HARRY WALTERS and local hdp from BILL KLEM, DON CLAEYS and TOM BERGIN did a tremendous job and our sincere thanks for a job weU done. One of the highlights of the weekend was the dass dinner and cocktan hour at Tom Bergin's Continuing Education Center, where we had the opportunity to visit with many of the profs we had in our time and are stiU on the staff or are in the South Bend area. Another highlight was the 25th Aimiversary Luncheon at which time BUD GOTTA presented Fr. Hesburgh the dass bequest of over a miffion doDars—a GREAT JOB. It was a real pleasure to have Fr. Hesburgh with us at limch and we're sorry that his stay with us was cut short because of the funeral of Msgr. McGrath, St Mary's President 
BiU Klem, on behalf of the retiring officers, expressed his thanks for the cooperation given to them over the past five years and wishes the new officers success in the years to come. The new Officers are: president, HARRY WALTERS; vice presidents. East—JOHN CARON; Midwest—BERNARD GOTTA, Far-West— JOHN BROZO, South—GERARD J. O'BRIEN; treasurer, JIM DUGAN; secretary—AL LESMEZ. As I finish my tour as secretary, many thanks for everything. 
1945 Attendees 
RUDOLPH J. ANDERSON, FRANK 

BEAUDINE, REV. WILLIAM BEVINGTON, 
WILLIAM A. BRACKEN. JAMES W. BRAUM, 
JOHN BROZO. JAMES C. BUTLER, JOHN 

CARON, DA^m> R. CARTWRIGHT, JULES J. 
CATTIE. DAVID CHAMPION, DONALD 
CISLE. DON CLAEYS, JIM CLYNES, BOB 
CRONIN. VINCENT GUSHING, JAMES 
(JDf) DONNELLY. FRANK I»LANEY, 
BROTHER FULGENCE DOUGHERTT, 

JAMES DUGAN, ARTHUR EDWARDS, JOHN 
ELUOTT, ROBERT ERKINS. HENRY 

FRAILEY. MICHAEL G. GARRY. BERNARD 
(BUD) E. GOTTA JR., WILLIAM H. GRAFE, WILLIAM F. CRANIO JIM GRIFFIN, 
R(»ERT GRIFFIN, JOHN GUTHRii, 
CHARLES T. HA^NGS, B. VERNOli 
HEcarr, PAUL HTJRD, WILLIAM KLEM, 
RAY KOPITUK, JOHN LAVERY. RICHARD 
J. LETTE, AL LESMEZ, FRANK UNEHAN, 
BROCK LYNCH, WALTER McDERMOTT, 
JOHN MACK. CHARLES MADDEN. 
FRANCIS E. MALONE. FHIL tIARTIN, 
ROBERT MAURER. WILLIAM J. McNElL, 
FRANCIS J. MILUGAN JR., WUXIAM 
MOORE, niOHAS MUUIERN. REV. 
MICHAEL J. MURFHY, GERARb O'BRIEN^ 
JAMES O'CONNOR, ROBERT H. OTOOLE, 
JIM PARIS, HENRY PAYNE, JOHN POWER, 
JOSEPH QUILL, JAMES RETTER. ROBERT 
RIORDAN, BROTHER KIERAN RYAN, 
DENNIS SCULLY. FRANCIS SPIEGEL. 
JOSEPH SYLVESTER. J. D. USINA, BILL 
WADDINGTON, ALHUb WADE, HARRY 
WALTERS. FRANCIS H. WARD, JOHN W. 
WELCH, JOHN B. WHITE. 
F. M. Linehan 
P.O. Box SOOO Bin^amton, N.Y. 13902 
'46 BROTHER'S BEAT 
A very pleasing letter was received from BRO. EDUARDO MICHALIK, CSC informing me that he is currently teaching at St Augustine Training College in Bogosa, Ghana. Prior to this Brother devoted a great deal of time and effort teaching at various Catholic Schools in the 
U.S. as well as putting in a stint at St John's, Sekondi, Ghaiui, West Africa. He hopes to revisit the U.S. this summer and also extends his best wishes to the Class of '46. For TOM BURNS' information—at a recent fund raising reception I had the pleasure of meeting the HON. MANUEL LUJAN JR., Congressman from Tom's voting district in New^exico. He certainly filled me in about many of Tom's extracurricular activities. 
Hope to have more next time! 
Peter P. Richiski 
6 Robin Place Old Greenwich, Connecticut 
'48 SCRfflE RETURNS 
Your scribe has missed the last couple of 
issues not so much for the lack of news but from other assorted reasons that have kept me from making publication dead­lines. We have received a number of newsy items via the Alumni Office which seems to be our best source of information as to what is happening with fellow classmates. 
After making the long haul back and forth from Miami to Fort Lauderdale, BILL HUNTLEY has moved back to the Miami office of Goodbody and Company. Bill has four children with his oldest daughter in college at Palm Beach Atlantic and his youngest son is in the second grade. LEN HART went to the Cotton Bowl and spent some time with JIM McCONN and says he was looking for roe there too. Un­fortunately I did not have the "cotton" to make the trip. ANDY STEFFEN is now VP of Public Affairs for the Indiana Bell Telephone Company. BILL WEILER has bMn appointed Ass't VP of Marsh & McLennan insurance brokers. PAUL COREY has been named Catholic Man of the Year by the Greater Cleveland chapter of the Knights of Columbus. He is also clerk of the Board of County Commis­sioners of Cuyahoga County. DAN HUNTOON has been appointed president of Grand Rent-A-Car Corp. operators of the Avis licensee operations in Southern California and Las Vegas. JOHN HOUSTON has been dected resident VP of The Industrial Indemnity Co. at Pasadena, 
California. He has spent his entite insurance career with the company. A long letter from TOM HIGGINS tdb of seeing many classmates in the Miami area and also that GEORGE KENNARD a still the able president of the ND Miami Club. Attending the Navy-Miami flame in Miami was TOM BROGAN ct Gicen Bay who is a public relations man for die luinber industry out that-a-way. Tom tried to cruise to the Bahamas but his boat went aground for five days which wraldn't happen on Lake Michigan. LOU SINGER'S oldest son is a freshman at ND and DAN BARLOW also has a son out there. I am told that Dan and his wife now have 14 children which is somewhat of a dass record with JOE FLOOD reportedly widi 13 miming in second positioiL Joe is hockey coach at St Thomas Collie in Minnesota. On behalf of the dass, condolences are extended to: AL SOMMER on the death of his father; PAUL SCHIRMEYER on the death of his son, Mark, a junior at ND, who was killed in an auto accident in May; JOHN McSHANE on the death of his mother; the fandy of DR. BILL WELCH: JOHN BRUNKE on the death of his father. BERNIE POPHAM, M.D. is President of the Medical Staff at St Joseph Infirmary in Louisville and president-elect of the Louisville Society of Internists. GEORGE SCHNURLE is controller at the Hrst Federal SAL Assoc in Michigan City. His oldest dau^ter is a senior at Geoige Washington U. and his oldest son is a freshman at Stanford and there are three more at home. CORNIE STYERS heads up computer design appiica­tions for Air Traffic Contnd Navigation Computers at Collins Radio, Cedar Rapids, la. LARRY RYAN is now in Edina, Mimt, via Orange, Calif.; REV. CHARLES SCHLECK. is on the move again and is now at the College of Our Lady of Mercy, Burlingame, Calif.; NORM RUSCH has moved from Hillsdale, NJ. to Houston, Texas; BROTHER RAPHAEL WILS(»4 CSC who was director of AdmissioiB and non-admissions at ND for many years, is now at Universitat Ulffl, Abteflung fur Klinische Microbiologie, 79 Ulm (Donau) Parkstrasse 10/11, Deutschland, iriudi is a mouthful no matter how you say it 
This is it for now. For the next issue we can look forward to a lot of change of addresses not included in this column. Let's hear from you. 
George J. Keenan 
177 Rolling Hills Rd. CUfton, NJ. 07013 
'49 SOME EXPOSURE 
Last month I threatened to expose certain class members who dared to be different— a special few who wrote to this comer with a bit of news data. The blessed "guflty" are these: FRANK SCHULTZ sent a fine letter saying that he recently joined the management advisory services of Price Wateibouse & Co. in NYC as a management consultant after spending six years in marketing management positions with General Foods. A recent assignment for the American Bank Note Co. found him working with JOE WHITE, who is asst mgr. of security sales for American Bank Note. Frank mentions crossing paths with Joe in Pensacola, Fla. several years after graduation «4ien Joe was in trainiiig to become a Naval aviator. He stayed with flying, as a "weekend wanior" and is now in charge of a squadron of multi-engiiie aircraft P2-Vs. Joe stSI eqioys badMkr­hood, thiHuh hit iwMtmfi it wcakcsai^ Fraidc also tdb oC wetac XSBS CAEMMERER Creqaentfy. We in New Yoric State know wbat an firfWent job he is doiofl in the Slate Lcflislatnre, (evideooed by his le-dectioa) and as Naaaa Coontjr Republican Leader. 
OB Mar 27 die Rodetfer, N.Y. oedK bateau sent m a news letter telieniog to ooe ot Jdha's pniects in dds ftshioii—The CaemoKrer bdi to tegulate credit buicam iriudi is locked upon as a iiiodd piece ot Iffliilatinii, wffl become effective on Nor. 1, 1970. After two yeais of cihamlive itaif, heaiinfls, reviews etc. Gov. RodKldkr was present to congratolate Senator f««m"««»»r at die agmnt of dw measure. From the opposite side of the country came a most wdcome note firom WALT YOUNGER irim is cm die ptmie manaflement team for the Federal Housing Administtation in Hdena, Mont A proud June tor die Yonnfltrs all deven of dum as son Km, gtaduted ftom ND in Jmie and another son, Tom, transfers to ND in Sept KCke is a frosh en^neer at Camdi CoDcfle in Hdena, two girts are in hii^ school and four more sons are in the grades. Sounds like a severe attadc of tuitionitis. JIM MCLAUGHLIN sent me a memo notinc that he has been dected the first presidott of the newly-created Marian Hi|)i Sdiool Board of Education. And to fiB his eretnis hours even more^ he tdb he has afao been made Seoetaty-'Treasurer of the Vewsfivet Peisonnd Rdatiims Assoc of the Soidh Bend District BILL BREEN wrote me ftom the colorful address ot 209 Mockint­bird Rd, Nashville, Tenn. to say that he has a woMbty assignment fnant him— "My diree boys (»-2S) have already dedded to attend ND if daddy can afford itT Many members in that dub. WALTER MARUT took tune oat to infmm us that be is a sales engineer with Plastictete 0>rp. of Hamden, Conn, and that he * his wife have five duldren. The ddest, Michad, just completed his first year at ND. Walt expects to visit the campus in September—doesn't know whidi flame as yet A brief note (and that's all it takes, men) from GENE BARTLEY mentioninc that be and Laurene were guests of ED BALLS 'S2 for the Cotton Bowl game. Gene b branch mgr. for Burning Corp. in Lexington, Ky. 
The final note for the column cofKetiB LEONARD DENTE w4io typed oat a "qmckie" to say that for the last five years he has been an asst professor at Western Comiecticat State Ccdiefle, and b currently devdopins a complete new economics program (mi^t send a copy to Washinflton, Len). Len and Maiy jiut cddirated 20 years of peacefol coexistence (you might t d Washington about that, dso!). I must ready another adumn, in fact, two coInmiB before the sommer nms its course. And I'm out of material; please hdp keep 1949 in print Meantime— have a cool, enjoyable summer. 
Leo L. Wesley 
155 Driftwood Lane Rochester, New Yoric 14617 
'5t SILVER LINING AHEAD We had a wonderfid 20th reunion on campus, widi the largest turnout of any dass, June 12-14. I wish to diank FRANK KELLY, TOM KIRSCHNER, DAN OraERGER. GENE CAMPANALE and GENE PASZKIET for their hdp, as wdl as 
DAVID G. BUDINGER THOMAS A. MELFE 
'52 has been appointed '53 has been promoted to assistant manager of sales senior vice president of in U.S. Steel's Detroit the U.S. Trust Company district He moves to the of New York. He joined post after serving as the firm in 1960 and is the assistant to the manager co-author of a book of sales in Boston. He entitled Life Insurance joined the firm in 1952 and Estate Planning. and held several sales posts prior to his 
Congrats 

JAMES K. DEGNAN '56 piomotion. 
has been appointed vice president of the U.S. Trust Company of New A. MICHAEL TURCO York. He earned an '53 has been appointed MBA at New York U. 
vice president of market­and prior to joining U.S. 
ing for Uni-Tech Chem­Trust was with the firmical, afiBliated with the of Salmon Brothers and Bristol-Meyers Company. 
Hutzler. 

He joined the Los Angeles-based firm in 1966 and also holds the position of RICHARD L. SINNOTT national sales manager. '58 has been named 
deputy assistant secretary 
for policy coordination in WALTER J. GILL '56 the U.S. Department of has been appointed vice Commerce. He will be an president of the engineer­adviser to the head of the ing and development Economic Development division of Advanced Admin, and direct Information Systems, Inc. programs applying EDA 
of Palo Alto, Calif. He experience to operations was formeriy a depart­
of other agencies. Before ment manager at Philco-
joining the Government in April 1969, he was VP 
Ford and has more than and director of marketing 
14 years of experience in for Beverly Bank, 
commnnicaticMi equipment Chicago. 
design. 

all the returning classmates, for making FRED FRIEND and JOE FALLON won CALLANAN, EUGENE CAMPANALE, JAMES this the best reunion yet, with plenty of golf prizes. The weather was perfect. Fr. CARBERRY. THOMAS CARTER, GUS 
CIFELLI, JOHN CONNOR. ARTHUR L. 

hospitality, food, refreshments and remin­Hesburgh spoke of the principles, aims 
CONRAD, RICHARD CORDASCO, LEONARD 
iscences. FR. BOB GRAY of Louisville, and path of the University. Ara Par-COSTANTINI, FRED COUFAL, ARMAND celebrated Mass Saturday night after the seghian spoke of the need for discipline DAGOSTINO, ROBERT DAVID. ADRIAN 
DEBEVEC. VINCENT DCCRANE. PATRICK 
banquet in Zahm Hall, and Father Pat among students, just as is needed on a 
DELGRANDE, WILLIAM V. DENNING, 
Mahoney, CSC, celebrated Mass that football team. (It looks like a good team WILLIAM DONOVAN, JOSEPH FALLON, morning, our Class Mass. People talk and a good reorganized coaching staff JIM FARLEY, MAURICE FERRTTER. 
RICHARD I. FITZGIBBONS, ROBERT 

about Amie's Army and Ara's Army, but I for the fall with the hope of a bold game 
J. FLVNN, EDMOND FOLEY, JEROME 
am convinced that the returning members by everyone.) As explained at the reunion, FRAZEL, ARTHUR FRERICKS, J. PETER of the Class of 'SO are not only fine men we asked everyone to send in $25.00 to FRIDAY, FRED FRIEND. JAMES FRITSCH, 
JOSE L. GONZALEZ. FR. ROBERT B. 

but are also staunch members of Christ's FRANK KELLY payable to "XHass of 
GRAY. GERRY GRIESMER, LOU HALEY, 
Army. I never realized so many of us were 19S0," and we will put it in our savings JAMES E. HARRINGTON. LEON HART, in agreement on student life on campus account to accumidate interest now for our MIKE HARTIGAN. JAMES HEANEY, 
JOSEPH V. HICKEY, ROBERT F. 

being implemented with some solid rules Silver Anniversary special program. Do it 
HOCHMAN, WILLIAM HOPKE, JAMES J. 
and regulations concerning parietal hours, before you forget it, i^ease. JENNEWEIN. BOB KANE. LOU KEIFER JR., lights-out, campus hours and beverages. Please give me some information for the E. F. KELLY, FRANK KELLY, WILLIAM 
KENNEDY, TOM KIRSCHNER. ROBERT 
Some with sons at ND this fall will be: column—DICK LEOUS took the first step 
LALLY. RAY LAMMERS, GEORGE LANDIS, 
BOB SCHLOSSER, BILL O'CONNELL, toward this aim at the reunion—he ROBERT LANG. RICHARD LEOUS. ED FOLEY, CHARLIE NEFF, LEON promised. I hope the rest of you will sit 
WILLIAM LICHTENBERGER. ROBERT 
LUTHER. TOM MCCAFFERY. ED 

HART (6^"-295; 6'5"-225), HARVEY down and jot me a page or so on what's 
MCCARTHY, RAYMOND MCGRATH, JOHN 
NEDEAU and myself; some with daughters cooking with you, your family and your 
C. MCGRODER, TOM McHALE, JOHN 

at S.M.C.: DAN OSBERGER and life. Well print who was at the reunion 
McLAIN, JAMES E. McLAUGHLIN, REV. 
ARMAND D'AGOSTINO. shortly. Meanwhile, God bless all of you. PATRICK MALONEY, RICHARD W. Friday night we had a great time with a MURPHY. HARVEY NEDE.AU, CHARLEY 
NEFF, JOHN NUSSKERN. GEORGE O'BRIEN, 
cocktail hour, music, ROLAND KELLY 
1950 Attendees PHIL O'CONNELL, WILLIAM O'CONNELL, 
as MC, prizes (BOB LALLY won over TOM APPELBAUM, WILLIAM ARZ-JOHN READY O'CONNOR, JOHN H. 100 boxes of cereal to last his family a BAECHER, ROBERT M. BARRETT, JOHN O'HARA. DON O'ROURKE, DAN OSBERGER, 
BECKHAKI, JOSEPH BIDWILL. EUGENE PAUL OWENS. EUGENE PHILLIPS. 
couple of days); BILL WIGHTKIN has 

BIFTTNER. LEO BLABER, JERRY BONA, J. PATRICK PLUNKETT. FRANCIS 
developed into a second ZIGGY JAMES BONESSI. JOHN J. BONESSI, RICHARDS. DAVID F. ROBISON. DONALD ZAROBSKI at the microphone. LEON ROBERT BRADNER, GEORGE BRIODY, J. ROMANO, JOHN RYAN. ROBERT J. 
RICHARD H. BRODEUR, LEO J. BROWN, SANFORD, ALBERT SCHORSCH, PAUL 
HART was elected second VP of the 

BERNARD BRUNETTI, PAT BUTLER, SCHWETSCHENAU, WILLIAM SHANNAHAN. 
Monogram Club, a real honor for us. FRANK T. CALLAHAN, RONALD G. WILLIAM SHULTS. RUSSELL SKALL, 
2i 

JAMES F. SLATTERY, ROBERT J. SLOCUM, DICK SOISSON, JAMES R. SWEENEY. WILLIAM TARDANI, JOHN THORNTON, HARRY TROY, ROBERT R. UHL, JOHN VAN NUYS, WILLIAM VERDONK, ROBERT WAGNER, JIM WELCH, THOMAS WEITHERS, BOB WELCH, AL WESTON, JOHN WHALEN, WILLIAM JOHN WIGHTKIN, RICHARD WILLENBRINK, DONALD WOLFE. 
John "Sparky" Thornton 
4400 Monserrat Street 
Coral Gables, Florida 
'51 NOMINATIONS PLEASE! 
Sorry to report that Bryan Brice, father of 
FRED BRICE, died early in June. He 
is survived by Fred and his mother. Fred 
can be contacted at St. Rose of Lima 
Parish at 418 NE 105th, Miami Shores, 
Florida 33138. Our condolences and we 
hope to see Fred—saying the class Mass— 
in June of 71. JACK BECKER forwarded 
a nomination for class president next June. 
He recaUed that BILL WHITESIDE was in 
the running as an undergraduate and should 
make a good president. Bill has done 
favors for at least two peoide I know of in 
our area, and he has also been active in 
many church and ND causes in the 
Philadelphia area. Let's hear any seconds, 
or other nominations. 
JACK BECKER is currently in disfavor in the poker club as he is the one who shoots as low as 42 in our summer golf meetings. The rest of us are up there a little higher but everyone plans to sharpen up before our twentieth-year reunion. JOCKO MULDOON reports that TOM CARROLL was visiting last week and he will also make every effort to be on hand next summer. JACK DUFFY married the former Barbara Trilla and they have four children: John, Janice, Terry (boy-type) and Barby. Jack is president of the J. J. Duffy Floral Co., Chicago. Another president is CHARLES MURPHY—C. F. Murphy Associates, Architects. Presently he holds the Illinois State Squash Racquets Championships for both singles and doubles, and has recently been elected a trustee of the Field Museum of Natural History. 
LARRY GALLAGHER, who lives in Highland, Ind., was recently promoted from general foreman to management in the Product Improvement Division at Inland Steel (Indiana Harbor Works). Another promotion is that of JOHN ROHRBACH. You may recall John started here in advertising in our area, and is now general manager of KYW-TV, the Westing­house Broadcasting Co. outlet in Philadelphia. Congratulations, John. 
Check this issue and see how many reunion classes elect new officers. Then send in your own comments or nominations or both-—particularly for a new secretary. 
Jim Jennings Borg-Wamer Corp. 200 South Michigan Avenue Chicago, Illinois 60604 
'52 A FIRST FOR '52 
So you think you're not getting old. Well, Mrs. Susan D. Fannon writes from Alexandria, Va. that Thomas J. Fannon Jr., son of T. J. FANNON SR., will be enrolling at ND in the fall. It looks like he's the first son of a '52er to start at ND as far as my information goes. T. J. has been offered a Ford merit scholarship to the University. He graduated from Ascension Academy where he was student 
council president, class president, and a member of the basketball team for four years. We all wish him good luck in his new undertaking. Incidentally, JACK MUELLER, our beloved classmate, is his Godfather. JOHN P. MORAN has been named field sales manager for the Devoe Paint Division of Celanese Coatings Company. He will be headquartered in Louisville, Ky. JOSEPH STENGELE, vice president of the Joliet Warehouse and Transfer Co., was elected president of the Illinois Movers and Warehousemen's Association at the annual business meeting in Peoria, 111. He lives at 1005 Western Ave., Joliet, 111., with his wife and seven chUdren. JOSEPH MORIARTY, in his pursuit of higher education, has been promoted to assistant principal at Jefferson School in South Bend. Joe has his picture in the paper as regularly as some of our political candidates. Maybe that's the next career he will pursue after he has solved the problems in the educational field. We are attempting to organize a class reunion after the Army-ND game on Oct 
23. We hope to gather together somewhere on campus and bend a few elbows and enjoy a little conversation. If you're at the game, pay attention to the half-time announcements which will direct you to our meeting place, hopefully somewhere at the Morris Inn. 
William B. King 
613 E. Donmoyer Ave. 
South Bend, Ind. 
'53 SOGGY BREAD 
The bread cast upon the waters requesting information is commencing to do whatever it is wet bread is supposed to do. The cards, letters and telephone calls have produced splendid help from JIM GIBBONS, JERRY ©CONNER, ED MCCARTHY and AL KOHANOWICH. If the response continues, that threatening supplemental mailing will become a reality in early fall. AL KOHANOWICH is a Lt. Col. in the Marines and took over a copter squadron in Okinawa. Writes that it is his third overseas tour and also saw "TEX" MCMONAGLE at Pendelton as "Tex" was on his way to Vietnam. Give us the word, "Tex." TOM SEAMAN sold $2 million of Mass. Mutual's insurance last year, and I understand he has a houseful of kids. JOHN LUX reports he is again in Chicago (Glen Ellyn) selling newsprint to publishers in the Midwest He and his family of three children recently returning from California. 
Faithful JIM GIBBONS reports that: HARRY DURKIN is practicing law in Livingston, NJ. and moonlighting by running a bar and catering service. Keep swinging, Harry. GEARY BECKER is on Wall Street with Dean Witter, has six children. AL DeCRANE JR. is asst to the board chairman of Texaco in New York. Say, AI, whatever happened to that rock-busting JACK "BEAR" SULUK? He was with your organization . . . JOHN ELSON is senior editor of Time. JIM BLACK­BURN is office services mgr. for Hoemer Waldorf in Chicago. His eldest of eight children will be at St Mary's next fall as a freshman. No more openings at Studebaker, "Blackie." PAT "MOOSE" MONTROY is president of the Notre Dame Chib of Chicago, which along with Mayor Daley's job is one of the most powerful in the Middle West. JACK MANIX works for Max Factor and lives with his wife and three kids in Seal Beadi, Calif. BILL KELLY is running the family aqAalt and blacktop business in Tenre Haute, Ind., has three boys and one girt. JOHN SELLICK has his MA in law and specializes in estate planning in Peekskill, 
N.Y. HOWIE SCRIBNER is stiU running the Chase Manhattan Bank in NYC, while JOHN PORTA is with the First National Bank of N.Y. DICK OXEARY is a periodontist in Cos Cob, Conn. JIM REID is sdling real estate in Haworth. NJ. B. ALFORD WOOD is practicing law in Clewiston. Fla. and has been since receiving his degiee from Stetson U. DAN MARSALEK is a dentist in Bay Village, Ohio and recently married Jan Alice Voeker. DON "DORSCH" IXMtlNI reports that he saw JIM CELANO in the lobby of the Hotd George V in Faiis while both were on ski weekends, Swiss style. (If I get to Niles, it is a big weekend for me . . .). He also reports that at the ND-Tulane game of last October he saw the ghost from Greeley, CoL, LARRY EATON, as wdl as BOB "RED" MULLEN from Tampa, Fla. He indicated that BILL and Jane Ann MAUS would be swinging by this way in a house-bus that be and Bill bou^t as partners a year ago. (My rate on campus tours is most reasonable.) Saw JOHN HOUCK at Mass this morning. John was recently devated to assoc. professor at ND and also elected president of the local Mental Health Chapter. JERRY O'CONNER reports that BRIAN DUFF was nominated for the Illinois House and should be a shoo-in and win 
join PHIL COLLINS, who is also a Rep. He saw HARVEY LUNG in Honolidu where be is designing and engineering for Alfred Lee and Associates. FRED TADROWSKI is leaving his job with the State of Illinois highway depart­ment and going on his own in Chicago, doing appraisal work. Good luck, Fied, and thanks Jerry. 
ED MCCARTHY reports all isfine and that he is going to go to Washington on vacation and hopefully see PAT DREW. He recently bou^t some luggage with which to carry his toothbrush, so took oat Pat CHUCK ROEME R is practicing law in South Bend. J(HIN PAIRIIZ is an established South Bend CPA as is GEORGE ARANOWSKI. BILL SAUM, I discovered, is selling IBM here in South Bend and Uves near JOHN HOUCK. JERRY HAMME S is sdling Fords and making a vast contribution of time and effort to the South Bend commimity. Keep the news coming. We have a lot of ground to cover. It is so much easier to stnig^ through this colimm when you good people supfriy the infotmatioiL Since the last coliunn was on the phys. ed. majors, bow about the pre-meds? "HARPO" MARKS. JACK MADDEN, JOHN DWYER. TED GARLAND, and RALPH ARGEN, iriwre are you? Pull out the yearbook and give me a "rundown" on all your fellow doctors, win you. . . . 
John T. Mulvihin 645 Hrst Bank Bldg. South Bend, Ind. 46601 
'54 IT WAS PROCRASI1NAT10N While trying to overcome the mental inertia to get this article started, the phone rang. Good ole JOE MESEC was on the other end and provided a good excuse to "pnt off tin tomorrow." But as usual, yesterday's tomorrow is today and Joe Mesec is on his 
A bridge is born 
£2=sa 

Ed Janes with his favorite kind of people—students. Trying out the footbridge (top) and in the classroom (below). 
In Philadelphia they named bridges 
after Walt Whitman and Benjamin 
Franklin. In New York, they have the 
George Washington Bridge. But in 
Joliet, III., there is a bridge named 
after Edward V. Janes, MA '56, 
a school principal. 

It is not a very big bridge by metro­politan standards—just a small foot­bridge used by elementary students going to and from McKinley Park School. On a practical level, the bridge saves the students a walk of more than a mile to get to school. More importantly, however, it is a symbol of how a conununity can woric together. 
Ed returned to his home town 
shortly after he received his MA in 
school administration at ND. As a 
graduate student, he attended summer 
sessions here from 1952 to 1955. 
One of his first tasks was to investi­gate the possibility of building a footbridge across Hickoiy Credc near the school. The old bridge had been washed away nine years eariier during a flood. There were problems. The biggest was that the creek served as the boundary between the city and the rural part of the township. Who would pay for the building of a new bridge became the important question. 
It was not until 1964, when the Joliet Paric District became involved in a Paric-School project that the hope of building the bridge seemed realistic. Eventually the township agreed to pay the $27,000 cost of the structure. 
That same year, Janes transferred to Paries School in Joliet as principal. 
"Even though my new work in an integrated school coupled with (con­tinued) graduate woric kept me busy, I assisted groups in the McKinley Paric area with continued support of the footbridge," he recalls. 
The bridge finally was dedicated on Nov. 14, 1969. Soon a movement grew with all those viko knew Ed to have the bridge named for him. So on Jan. 15, it was rededicated and mariced with a plaque. 
But it was an honor for more than his efforts to get the bridlge built One woman wrote in a letter to the editor of the Joliet Herald-News: "Before Mr. Janes became principal, 
discipline in the school was deplor­
able. Communication between 
teacher and pupil was almost nil. 

There was very little rapport between 
home and school He spent many 
hours after school visiting in homes, 
discussing the school situation . . ." 
Perhaps one of the finest tributes 
came from his old boss, the former 
superintendent of schook in Joliet, 

and now the superintendent of schools 
in Arlington Heights, 111. 

"Ed Janes," he wrote, "is one of those rare people who love and prac­tice the ideals of himianity about which we all too often only talk. He really cares about people. He is never too busy to listen, never too busy to talk and above all, never too busy to care. As a principal, he helped to build a very special kind of 'feel' in the building. Faculty, students and parents alike all seem to relate to each other in especially warm and understanding ways. .. . He cares. It shows and it is contagious." 
Janes has been the recipient of other honors during his career as an educator. The PTA has given him state and national life memberships; in 1963 the Royal Task Masters— a black organization—named him "Grade School Teacher of the Year" and in 1964 the League of United Latin American Citizens presented him an award "for promoting better education for the Mexican-American child through bilingual programs." 
He credits his studies at Notre Dame as an influence in his choice to work in a school in a poverty area. 
At Notre Dame, he observes, "One could develop an intellectual curi­osity in subject matter areas and at the same time feel that simplicity and resourcefulness can permeate one's thinking outside of the classroom." 
Administrators and teachers, he be­lieves, "must list as a high priority or aim to involve parents and agencies in the community to improve not only the climate of the school, but to reevaluate the aims, goals and ob­jectives of the school." 
The Edward V. Janes footbridge is one bit of evidence that a community appreciates concern about its problems. 
way home, both of us a little weary from the short reunion. Joe's living in Milwaukee and is marketing for the Merritt Co. there. He also had a visit with WALLY CASHMAN while on this tour. Ida and Eddie, I mean Ro-Ro and Bob Poden are to be congratulated on the birth of their Sth chad, and Sth giri, on March 6, 1970. The CASTELLINIS, Dick and Madeline had their 7th child, also a girt on Christmas Day last Some guys just never grow old. JOHN COYNE is president of Coyne-Kangesser Co. in Cleveland. He owns and operates 33 honor paridng lots. RON SMITH was recently elected executive VP of the advertising club of Wilmington, Del. He is Director of Cb'ent Services of Di-Martin, Marona and Associates, Inc. JIM KELLEHER of Silver Spring, Md. has been appointed VP for Public Affairs of Dudley-Anderson-Yutzy Public Relations, Inc. CHARLIE COOK after teaching English to delinquent boys at the state school at Industry, New York, lo these many years, was promoted to head of the depart­ment 
DOUG TALBOT has his own sales representative business in Chicago, selling plastic extrusion, insection molding and thermo forming. JOE CAMPBELL moved to Tucker Ga. in 1966 and has one child, a boy—^Patrick (that's all my information had). BOB RICH was promoted to plant mgr. with Westinghouse Electric Corp. at Bellefontaine, Ohio. JOHN FALLON is heating, ventilation air conditioning engineer in the Central Engineering Dept. of Atlas Chemical Industries, Inc. JIM HAMLIN has joined G.E.'s new business development operations as an api^ications specialist PAT LERNIHAN has been appointed general agent for the American United Life Ins. Co. in San Jose Calif. The Lemihans have four children. For outstanding airmanship and courage in Southeast Asia Major M. H. HACKETT has won the 1st through 10th Oak Leaf Ousters to the Air Medal. Let's take a beer break. Doesn't it amaze you how I come up with all these informational tidbits? Rolling right along— MIKE NEVILLE of Weston Connecticut has been named TWA Mgr. of Cargo sales for the company's N.Y. region. JOE MORIARTY was elected VP of Synthane-Taylor corporation. Valley Forge, Pa. He joined Synthane in Feb. '69 after working 13 years for Spaulding Fibre Corp. Your prayers are requested for classmate GEORGE HADYKE who died Jan. 18 and also for LARRY McNALLY's mother and JIM CORCORAN's father who also passed away recendy. I'm sure your prayers will be sincerely appreciated. 
Well, gang; I hope you've ordered your Purdue-ND tickets and get lucky in the ticket lottery so we can all get together after the game at our Aimual Reunion Party. If not come to the party anyway. Oh, by the way, it's been almost six months since I've received a letter or card from any of you. Break down! Time's precious, but you really can't be so busy that one letter every 16 years is an impossibility. 
Milton J. Beaudine 21 Signal HOI Blvd. 
E. St Louis, ni. 62203 
'55 AWARDING EXPERIENCE Our class was singulariy honored at the reunion by having FATHER JOE 
O'DONNELL celebrate a most slinint memorial Mass on Saturday and FATHER JIM SHERER being chosen as cdebTant <rf the alimmi Mass on Sunday. 
Before leaving the CSC scene, want to mention that Jim Sherer moved on to Chicago after the reimion to baptize J(HIN HARTIGAN's new oSspring. Also. GEORGE ROONEY took the "BiHy Graham" award for his song leading at the memorial Mass. 
The Committee has met to deteimine the winner of the coveted reunion awards and there were several repeat winners. For instance, after a slow start, TIM DRISCOLL came throu^ to take the "Endurance" award. Also, BERNIE McCLOREY retained his laurds as the "Ogre." 
With his corset for a bad back. MAX ROESLER was a cinch for the "Maiden Form" award. Speaking of bodies beantifiil, BILL KILBURG and JOE KEARNEY shared the "Least Changed Since '55" award. WALT CABRAL, who certainly would have shared that award, also was nominated for the "Entertainer" award. Walt came all the way from Hawaii with his ukulele, where he is a Lt Col.'in the Army, while DAN MOORE brou^t in Alaska's colors. PHELAN THOMPSON, however, took the "Long Distance" award by flying in from Australia, where he handles distribution for a power saw company. GEORGE VOSMIK took home the "Izaak Walton" award for taking the time to bring a rod, reel and two boxes of lures to the reunion. Probably knew iriut the food was going to be like over the weekend. That leads up to LEE CREAN's "Victor Borge" award for providing those dandy Cornish game hens Friday ni^ t As NEAL HALLORAN pointed out we have heftier pigeons in Chicago. DAVE METZ copped the "Avis" trophy for coining in second in the golf tournament Wonder why his game fell off so badly Saturday. WhUe on the sporting scene, ED "OX" FOX and ROY BELKNAP shared the "Vic Tanny Body Beautiful" award for being in better shape than they were IS years ago. On the other hand, guys like ART SULLIVAN, JOHN CASEY, LARRY BUCKLEY, BILL McLAIN, and DAN BURKE shared the "Bay Window" award. MIKE WARD, showing no strain from his family of nine, won the "Jackie Gleason" honors. He's a real double and just as funny around the striped tent Speaking of those front and center in the entertain­ment sweepstakes, RAY KENNEDY picked up the "Oh Calcutta" award for his blowtorch-sculptured beard and JOE DALEY the "Martha MitcheU" Emmy for continuing ad-libs over an extended weekend. Other repeat wimiers from previous reunions include DICK BURKE and TOM MAGILL deadlocked for the "Duke Snider" award for those most in need of a dye job for their gray locks. JOHN BENDEL did not appear to challenge JOHN WEITHERS for the "Dome" award. Whfle PHELAN THCMP­SON sported a handsome upper lii^ PAT KEARNS came off with the "Teny 
Thomas" award for the unusual ttimrntng of Ms moustache. JACK FLYNN took home the "BUI Buckley" award for his critique of the weekend which will lead to an even better show five years hence. CHUCK DOHERTY roared home with the "Short Timer" award for taking off even before the teimion opened officially. 
GEMtGE SHELTCMi iriw loae Celt < 
not keq> up hit tonma jmee, piAcd mf 

the "CiUtfaT amid for maa Afcmen 
In one d^r. Smnttliim about tolas In ittp. 
vp and tout wttant ahowiqf tte iliiin 
MKE KELLY wnvped 19 Oe Toitaiw" 
pfaMine by tomAam fiafing to act te . 
football apfiicatioBs of the Chica«a 
contintett toO e tidKt trffioe br Sainidajr 
noon. IJOU ZEFRAN «ai hoaond wA 
the "CUb 22r* dtaliiMi, bat ftied In tii 
bid fw Ae "Diiie Kiliway" oak leaf dMer. 
JERRY HUGHES fot the "CiutB LeMajT 
award for iettlag in for die wcdcend «ilh 
his own Air Faroe ciafl, coo|iele widi 
navifator. TCMf CAREY, now w e 
president (tf Sobmban Downs sollQr tiadc 
in CUcaao, blilzed our Navy di^iain oa 
the handban courts lo abate die "LettemHa" 
title with JUNIOR STEPHENS, iriw 
manfully bra*ed the heat and huiBidHy lo 
play 36 holes of flolf Ftidiar and Satetday. 
Here are a couple of naa-temMa notes. 
JOHN WANCHOW is die proud I>ad at 
his first aon after three gidt. Jabn is a ­
field encineer widi RCA, raidB« at 3020 
RoUinc Sprinci Dr., Carrad, Ind. ART 
EGGERS has been named national ad wft­
for Boise Cascade Mobile Boata. LARRY 
BREHL has been qipointed mgr. ol 
communications for the WcMiinhonse­
Electia-Medianical Div., Cheswidt LT. 
COL. CHARLIE MEARS is commandnv 
the 2nd Battalion, 11th InftuUry at F t 
Carson, COL DAVE C(XIEN has been 
appointed acting dtector ct the Chicago 
conference on RdigiDn and Race. 

195S Attendea 
TOU AUiSniONG. j m lAlRY. JMN 
BATTEL, FRANK UARDSLEy. RICHARD 
BEEMiijI, ROY BELKNAP. JAWES 
BERGQlAST, EDWAID utAVS, JERRY 
BRANSnELD, mf BKOUGRTONTLAI" 
LARRY BUCaCLEV. DANIEL JD^ ) Bt 

RICHAIID W. BURKE. fOMX 1 
KOBERT D. BUUeS, WALTER 1 
ROBERT CAFFARJaU, THCMIAS 
JAMES F. CARROLL, J<»N C. CASPf. 
EMMET P. CASSIDY. fOCHAEL COrnV. 
JACK OORBETT. JAMES COURTNEY. 
LEE CREAN, joikaa DALEY. RKaXUD 
D0NAHUE,_JPE DONOVAN, LAWRKNCE 
DOWNEY, IHOMAS DRISdblX,lACR 
(JCHIN F.) FLYNN. EDWARD lOfjEl E 

FRElDHEIM^JMmALD FREUN£PAUL 
FULUffiRrrHOUAS GAUXAS, VHOL 
GRONER, JEROME GROARK. tfyUMS
HAlDn«GER. NEAL HALLORAN. THOMAS 
HAYES. LEO HAWK. JOSEFH HAYI»N, 
WILLIAM HEINRICT, JAMES L. 
HESBURGH. JOHNHESTER, GERARD 
HILLSMAN, BC» HOF 
HOSINSKI, LOUIS HUBER, JEROkl 
HUGHESjBOB HUTC^OON. IHCMAS 
JAMES. -hlOMAS M. lOHNSOk. FAT 
KEARNS. JOE KEARNEY, MICHAEL 
KELLY. RAY KENNEDY. WILLIAM 
KILBURG. fot. JUSKn. RtXAND W. 
KUEBER. dHRlS LARSEN. DENNY 
LAUGHLIN. FRANCIS LOLU. WtM 
McAULIFFE. R<»ERT McCJUIREN. 
BERNARD MeCUHIEY. JOSEFH UALYNN, 
BILL McLAIN, TOM MAGHX, JACK 
MAHONEY, RON MAKOWSKL NEAL 
MASON. DAVID MEIZ. DAN MOCMtE. 
WILUAII MULLER. JOSEFH NASSIF, 
JOE O'DONNELL CS.C. JERC»fE 
FRASSAS. EDWARD FREIN, RAY POKROT. 
TIM RAUH. J. N. REINER. EDWARD 
RHOMBERG. ROBERT RTOIEY. MAX 
ROESLER. JAMES J. SCHENKEL. GECHUa; 
SHELTON. REV^AMES SHERER RICHARD 
SmFPMAN. CmtS SONKTZ. JACK 
STEPHENS. JIM STEVENS. ART SULLIVAN. PETER SUTHERLAND. KMt SWDT. 
PHELAN THOMPSON. HLL TICE. JOSEFH 
TONINI. BERNARD TRACEY. JOf 
VACHRIS. GEORGE F. VOMflK. MICHAEL 
WARD. JOHN WErrHERS. TOM WKLLY. 
DANIEL WILSON. JAMES YCHiKB. LOVB 
ZEFRAN. 
Paid Fnlmer 
1922 Latkdde Drhre denriew, OL 60025 
'56 BEAT PURDUE 
Plan to be at our class reunion in the 
basement of the Center for Continuing 
Education (across from the Morris Inn) 
following the Purdue game. 
Our belated deepest sympathy to 
CHARLIE SIMPSON, whose wife died last 
year. DICK RUST is teaching phOosojAy 
at Ladycliffe College in Highland Falls, 
N.Y., which is adjacent to West Point 
BERNIE KOSSE is president of the Louis­
ville Chapter of the Tax Executives 
Institute. JOEL A. MESECAR is general 

mgr. of Crystal Ice & Fuel, Inc. of Elkhart, 
Ind. TONY GUIDO is a partner in the law 
firm of Gleason, Cherry and Guido in 
DuBois, Pa. ROY LUCKETT is president 
of the Nashville Engraving & Electrotype 
Co. in Nashville, Tenn. SAM GLORIOSO, 
with NASA in Houston, reports that BILL 
WERNER is at Oak Ridge Natl. Lab, TOM 
McCLUHAN is in North Tonawanda, N.Y., 
CHARLIE ANTROBUS with Esso at 
Baton Rouge, La., and JIM RYTHER in 
Chicago. Where are his other metallurgy 
classmates, ED WILSON and DAVE 
HUBER? 
BILL GORHAN is supervisor. Speech and Hearing Dept., Dixon State School, Dixon, lU. JOE DENNISTON is at MaxweU AFB, Ala. as an economics instructor at the Air U. GEORGE NKUWA is with Dura-Container, Inc. in Indianapolis, Ind. and at last report was a bachelor. PAUL NOLAND, a lawyer, was made a partner in the firm of Hachbert, Rooks, Pitts, FuUgar and Poust in Chicago. BILL SULLIVAN, also a lawyer, is on the legal staff of a chemical co. in the NYC area. PAT SNYDER is still with Cummins Engine in Columbus, Ind. and vows to return for our 1970 WIN over Purdue! There is the true ND spirit. ED JOYCE is superintendent of communications for Peoples Gas Co. of Chicago. CHET MITCHELL is director of marketing for the DuKane Corp's Com­munications System Div. DAVE BRUCKER is mgr. of pulp and paper section of ASEA, INC. BOB SIMKINS is in Mauldin, S. Carolina with Fiber Industries, a division of Celanese Corp. JOHN STUHLDREHER is with the Nat'l Transportation Safety Board in Washington, D.C. 
My wife Gretchen and I had the pleasure of spending an evening with FRANK BEYFAGH and his wife, Diane in Wash­ington, D.C. in May. Frank will become a professor at the Law School in September. His specialty will be constitutional law. Frank gave me a full report on the Washington group—JOHN CHOMEAU is at the CIA, TOM FALCINELLI, practicing law in Silver Spring, Md., BILL JACK­MAN is PR director for the Air Transpor­tation Assn., JOHN MURRAY is with the Justice DepL, PETE CANNON is 1970 president of the ND Club, TONY CASTRINA and JIM GAMMON are practicing law and WALT ARNOLD and JIM SWIFT are also busily engaged in their respective fields in the D.C. area. 
Eugene P. O'Connor 
668 Elliott Square 
Buffalo, N.Y. 14203 
'57 REAL SPIRITS Our hours spent at Joers have not been wasted, at least not for EMMETT (BUD) MALLOY, who was elected the VP of the Wine and Spirits Guild of America. Emmett is VP of EM Enterprises, Inc., Chicago. JOHN HAMMETT, labor relations director for the Cleveland Plain Dealer, is celebrating passing the (Mo Bar Exam this put spring, aass president JOHN McMEEL visits Cleveland periodically and spends a cock­tail hour with John from time to time. NORM HEYING is president of Control Industries, Inc., a computer service firm in Kansas City. One of the hot shot sales reps for the company is EARL HOGAN. Norm is pretty proud of the bnsiiiess which he founded two years back. It services TWA and a division of ITT. Norm invites all who pass through Kansas City to stop by and get a deluxe tour. 

STEVE OT>ONNELL is living in Rock­ford, 111. and is a sales lep for National Car Corp. GEORGE OXEARY also Uves there and is with the Claik Coip. JOE RINK reports receiving word bom FATHER GENE BURKE who was a freshman prefect in Farley Hall in 'S3. Father Burke is with CSC missions in Pakistan. My wife Marilyn and I, plus the four childten made our biennial pilgrimage to Wash­ington, D.C. this past May and had the good fortune of spending a Saturday night with the BOB O'NEILS and BILL MCGUIRES. We solved and unsolved most of the worid problems that ni^t and I am sure the-Wine and Spirits GuOd of America would have rejoiced over the empties we left behind. BILL MCGUIRE is a division sales nigr. for Contnd Data out of D.C. Bill has not lost his touch on the golf course since leaving ND. JOHN BRENNAN reports the addition of new son, Daniel, bom to him and Dorothy in May. That's No. four for the Brennan ClaiL TOM REILY has joined the Chicago law firm of Gordan, Reidn A West. DAVE THOMPSON is covering dty hall in Omaha, Neb., for the Omaha WorU-Herald. Remember the Class Reunion will be after the LSU game on November 21, 1970. All you guys from below the Dixie better show. 
George W. Groble 
111 Washington Chicago, lU. 60602 

'58 COME SEPTEMBER As first item of news in this issue we wish to announce that our annual after-game reunion will be held at the Monis Iim following the Purdue game on Sept. 26th. News from classmates forwarded to us is as foUows: NICHOLAS J. RANIERI is market mgr. for E & I GaDo Wine in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. He is married and resides at 776 66th Ave. N., Miime­apolis, with his wife and three diQdren. DAN KAVANAUGH wdcomed his second child and first son in July, 1969. The Kavanaughs reside at RL 1, Box 474, Galesburg, Mich. 49053. PAT HUGHES, 4548 Sunnyslope Ave., Sherman Oaks, Cal. 91403, was married in 1959, now has three sons and is practicing law in Holly­wood, Calif. HARRY A. BLANTON is administrative asst to the president of St. Louis U. Formeriy he was asst. dean of the College of Aits and Sciences at Loyola of Chicago. Prior to that he practiced law in Sikeston, Mo. Hie Blantons reside at 7733 Stanford, Univeisity City, Mo. 63130 and have six diildietL 
LCDR L. K. DONOVAN, his wife and two daughters, moved to Bedford, Mass. in Aug., 1969 where he is attending graduate school at MIT studying deep ocean engineering, and |dans to enter the Navy's "Man in the Sea" program in 1971. The Donovans' address is 198 Cadisle Rd., Bedford, Mass. 22060. WILLIAM M. DONOVAN and his family are now living 
at 437 Grace Ave.. Newark, N.Y. 14513. 

Bill is manufacturing mgr. for C. H. Stuart 
Co., Inc. EDWARD T. (TED) RYAN, 
JR. was married in 1966, now has two 

sons and resides at 6652 E. Sunnyvale Rd., 
Scottsdale, Ariz. 85253. Ted is president of 
Discom, Inc., a subsidiary of Talley 
Industries, Iiic. in the electronic data 
processing field. EMILE A. BERNARD 

received a Ph.D. in imclear engineering in 
1968 from the U. of Florida. He is now 
a staff member at Los Alamos working in 

the weapons physics division. The Bernards 
have three children and reside at 529 

Todd Loon tm Alamos, N.M. 87544. The 
EDWARD CUDDIHYS recenay welcomed 
a soil and third child. Ed is now sr. research 
scientist at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, 
Pasadena, Cal. and resides at 6348 Hamilton 
Drive, Tujunga, Cal. 91042. Ed is neaiing 
completion of his Ph.D. woik at USC. 
DR. GARY E. McKENNA is practicing 
orthodontics in Morristown, Tenn. Gary, 

his wife and five children, live at 614 Scenic 
Drive, Morristown, Term. 37814. 

FRANK MORAN, 1825 Camp Ave., Rockford, III. 61103, entered a partnership in 1%9 in a firm acting as manufacturer's rep in the business form industry. His firm name is Accurate Business Controls of Northern Illinois. Frank was formeriy with two different business form manufacturers and has resided at Rockford for the past two years. Their family now consists of five chadren. KEVIN C. SMITH is with the General Science Corp. and has the sales responsibility for eight Southeastern states; lives at 2321 Melinda Dr. NE, Atlanta, Ga. 30329. The Smiths were expecting their third chnd in July. CHARLES B. KITZ was recently promoted from Thunderbird Product Planning mgr. to Powertrain Product Planning mgr. at Ford Motor Co. The Kitzes live at 704 Sandra Dr., Dearborn Heights, Mich. 48127. THOMAS J. O'REGAN JR. since April, 1969, has been emidoyed as pension and profit sharing plan consultant for Hewitt, Assoc., Liberty-ville, m. Tom's address is 7321 N. Honore SL, Chicago 60626. THOMAS SWIATOW­SKI is working for Pratt & Whitney Aircraft in West Palm Beach, Fla. as an experimental test engineer. Tom and his wife celebrated their lOth wedding anniversary last December and now have three children. Their address is 713 Pelican Way, West Pahn Beach, Fla. 33403. 
THOMAS R. WOLOHAN is Uving at (believe it or not) 7644 Kiimick Dr., Roscoe, ni. 61073. Tom is mgr. of Wolohan Lumber Co. in Rockford, and at the time of writing was expecting a seventh child. THEODORE J. COLLINS became a partner on January 1 in the law firm of Perkins, Coie, Stone, Olsen & Williams in Seattle, Wash. His address is 1900 Wash­ington Bldg., Seattte. MIKE CANTWELL recently relocated in NYC where he is a member of the management advisory staff of Alexander Grant & Co. and is responsible for the firm's computer services in the eastern U.S. NICK J. NEIERS, his wife Carol and their seven children, are living at 2314 Wayside PI., Decatur, lU. Nick is a partner in the law firm of Samuels, Miller, Schroeder, Jackson & Sly. 
Arthur L. Roule 
1610 West Fifth St LaPorte, Ind. 46350 
'59 invrs RETURN JIM MAiSTERSON did make it back to the campus for our reunion last summer. 

but was only on campus a few hours. Upon returning to Europe, Jim and JoAnn and their daughter, Kathleen, stopped in Amsterdam to look up LOU KIGIN, who at that time was working in Rotterdam for Mobil Oil, and whose next assigiunent took him to Oslo, Norway for a six-week stay. After returning to Geneva, Jim was promoted to finance mgr.. Caterpillar Far East Ltd., Hong Kong. If you're traveling in the San Jose area this summer, look up CARL EDMUNDSON, who has an insurance agency there, and was married in April, 1969, and JIM GARRITY, who is asst VP and mgr. of Crocker-Citizens National Bank in Palo Alto. The Garritys now number five, with Shauna Lynn joining Jim and Andrea (and her two brothers) last summer. 
TOM TRINLEY has been promoted from patent advisor to patent attorney in the Chicago office of AMOCO Chemicals Corp. (American Oil Co.), Research and Development Dept. Tom recently received his law degree from DePaul and has successfully passed both the Patent Bar Illinois Bar exams. Tom and Maureen and their five children live in the Beverly Hills suburb of Chicago. EDWARD M. COLLINS recendy received his MBA from Memphis State. B. ROBERT KILL is now the executive VP and general mgr. of Switzer's Licorice C. division of Beatrice Foods, and will establish headquarters in St Louis. Peter Paul, Inc. has named JIM HANLON (Robinson, lU.) to the newly created position of director of advertising and sales promotion. This will necessitate a move to Connecticut for Jim, June and their four children. RUDY HORNISH is still involved in the theatre, and is currently studying and writing musical comedy under the tutelage of Lehman Engel. This is a scholarship which Rudy won last summer. He is still handling the TIME-LIFE books and the Save the Children Federation accounts, as his "full-time" employment. 
LaVeme and ROGER LAUR are now in New BerUn, Wis. (12470 W. Burdick Court) and report the birth of their first chUd, Mary. DAVID M. AMIDON was transferred from Patrol Squadron 23 in Brunswick, Me. to Washington, D.C. (Naval Air Systems Conunand). D. H. STRAIGHT is presently teaching and coaching at Robbinsdale Senior High School, Minneapolis and received his MA from Ohio State in June, 1968. BOB WETOSKA reports that they had their third chnd, Matthew John, last August MaryAim claims that this one could be the ballplayer in the Wetoska family! JOHN UEBBING is finally reporting from Palo Alto, Calif., where he is working for Varian on III-V semiconductor photo-cathodes. John married Roberta Flynn in Nov., 1966, received his Ph.D. in E.E. from Stanford in June, 1967, and was presented his first child, Mary Frances, in March, 1969. SCOTT BRADSHAW is a major in the Army (Infantry) and is now attending the Foreign Service Institute in Washington for subsequent service in South Vietnam (bis second tour there). Emily and four sons will remain in Tulsa, Okbu while Scott is in the Far East NICK DEMPSEY, who is already anticipating Retmion '74, had his own reunion last fall at the Army game with WARREN ALBRIGHT, PAT GELSON, BILL McCAFFREY, TOM GILL, JOHN MADDEN, GEORGE ROSS and JIM COORSSEN. JAMES V. GARGIULO is president of Paper Whole­sale and Janitorial Supplies in Amsterdam, 
N.Y., and he and Fran have five chikben (Aime, Amy, Alicia, Anita and Jimmy). The Gargiulos usuijly make it back for a game or two every fall, and spend some time with LEON DARGIS and his wife, Sally, who live in Michigan City. 
For those '59ers lucky enough to be winners in the Purdue game lottery, we hope you will save an hour or two after the game to share your analysb of the game with classmates, when we hold our aimual football reunion. Beat Purdue! 
Joseph P. Mulligan Admissions Office Notre Dame, Indiana 46S56 
'60 THEY WERE HERE 



1960 Aiiendees 
JOSEPH P. ALBRIGHT, JAMES ALLAN, 
BERNARD ALLARD, PHUJP ALLEN. MARY 
ANDERSON, WARREN BAKER, IHOMAS 
BANCHOFF, JOSEPH BARRY, STEVE 
BARRY, ANDREW P. BARTON, JR., BOB 
BASOLO, RICHARD BELMOXl' RICHARD 
BENKENDORF, ROBERT BENNETT, 
WILLIAM J. BENNETT, PAUL BERETZ, 
NORMAN £. BERGESON. RONALD 
BLUBAUGH, THOMAS BRXNKWORTH, 
MARION BROWN, ED BUKOWSKI, 
WEJAY BUNDARA, JOHN BURNS, JAMES 
S. BYRNE. JOHN P. CALLAHAN. GLEN 
CAWLEY, DONALD CLARK, WUXIAM 
COMERFORD, TERRANCE CONWAY, 
WILLIAM CONWAY, EDWARD CORNELIA, 
PATRICK CREADON, JIM CROSSIN. DON 
CURLOVIC, PETER CYBULSKIS, &UCHAEL 
DALZELL, RALPH DANNA, BERNARD 
DAVIS, JOSEPH DAY, THOMAS 
DeCOURSEY, ARTHUR DELANEY, FRED 
DEUTSCH, LEO DILLING. DON 
DIMBERIO. ROBERT DINI, JOHN 
OORENBUSCH, JOHN DORRIAN. JOSEPH 
W. DORRYCOTT, JAMES DRISCOLL, W. 
T. DUDLEY, Jr., MICHAEL DUFFY, MIKE 
EHLERMAN. MICHAEL EHRENREICH, 
MIKE FELVMEIER. BILL FERNS, 
THEODORE FITZGERALD. THOMAS 
FITZGERALD. CHRISTIE FLANAGAN, 
HOWARD FOLEY, MICHAEL FOLEY. 
ARTHUR "BUD" FRANZ, REV. MICHAEL 
FRANZ, CHARLES GEIGER. DICK GELSON, 
PETER GENIESSE. RICHARD GRIFFIN, 
JAMES E. GOULD, JAY GOULD, NICK 
GRAFFEO, THOMAS GREENE, TOM 
GROJEAN, LEONARD HANLOCK. LARRY 
HANRAHAN, JAMES HARRINGTON, PETER 
HASBROOK. WILLIAM HEAFHY. PATRICK 
HEENAN, PETER HEINBECKER. DOUGLAS 
HEYING, JOSEPH HILGER, THOMAS M. 
HOGAN, ROBERT HORN. FRED JAMROZ, 
JOSEPH JANSEN. THOMAS KAMP, 
CHARLES R. KAVANEY, TERRY KEATING, 
TOM KEEGAN, MICHAEL KEENAN. 
BOB KEELEY, JOHN KELLY, THOMAS 
KELLY, EDWARD KENNEDY. EDWARD 
KFOURY. DENNIS KIDDER, EDWARD 
KIRCHMIER. JIM KUBLUC. PAUL B. 
KUSBACH, JERRY LALLY, J. ROBERT 
LaMONTAGNE, JACK R. LANG, TERRY 
LAUGHLIN. THOMAS LAUTH. MAURIE 
LEFERE, JOSEPH LEGAN, WILLIAM 
LESER. RICHARD LETSCHER. JERRY 
LUKAS. DANIEL MacDONALD. RICHARD 
MADAY. JOHN MAHER. CHARLES 
MANERI. WILLIAM MAFOTHER, JACOB 
R. MARHOEFER, ROBERT P. MARSCHALL, 
MARIO MAURO. DONALD T. HcALLISTER, 
EMMETT MCCARTHY, TOE MCCARTHY, 
D. JERRY McGLYNN, MICHAEL 
MCGOVERN, JOHN McKENNA. EDWARD 
McKEOWN, DONALD McKIBBEN, BILL 
McMURTIUE. DAN McVEIGH, RICHARD 
MEANEY, TOM MEKUS. EDWARD 
MEYER. HERBERT MOELLER. FRANCIS 
J. MOOTZ. JIM MOFFITT, THOMAS 
MORAN. WILLIAM MORGAN. 
THOMAS MOYNAHAN. FORREST J. 
MURPHY, KENNETH MtHlPHY. J^ilES 
MURRAY. CHARLES NACKLEY. TIMOTHY 
NEEDLER, ROBERT NICOLAZZI, FRANCIS 
O'BRIEN, THOMAS O'CONNELL. JOHN 
O'HARA. WILLIAM O'HARA. DENNIS P. 
PANOZZO. REV. RIVERS PATOUT. 
STANLEY PECORA, CARL PETERSON. 
PATRICK PHELAN. LEN PIERONI. BOB 
PIGORS. RAY PLENCNER. PAT FOTTZR. 
JOHN POUBA. JOHN QUINN, KEN QUINN, 
THOMAS E. OUINN. JAMES RADKE, 
TERRY REaLY. JOHN REISERT. DANIEL 
REYNOLDS, PATRICK J. ROACHE. JOHN 
RONAYNE. JAMES ROSE, BILL ROTH, 
THOMAS ROURKE, WALTER RUDGE, AL SABAL. JERRY SACHSEL. RICHARD SAPP. 
DANIEL SCANLAN,WILUAlf E. 
SCHECKLER, JOE ^HAW, LEE SHIPliAN. 
EDWIN SnXliUN. BEN SIRIANMI. BOS 
SKRZYCKI, TOU SOLON. mOSAlIt L. 
SOWERS. WnXIAlI STBHLE. DEE 
STEVENSON.IAMES K. STUCKO. JAMES 
SULLIVAN, CHARLES TAUSCHE, nOBEKT 
TOLAND. JOHN WALKER. WILLIAU 
WARD. ARTHUR WIGGINS. GERALD 
WILKES. BOB WILLIAMS, WALTER L. 
WITTENBERG. JAMES WYSOCKI. JOHN 
YOST. ALLEN ZELL, AL ZIMMER. 
DOUGLAS ZILUOX. 
'62 WESTWARD, HO! Two very sad notes to start with. DENNIS MADDEN passed away in Mandiester, Conn. Fd>. 8 and DICK MORRISSEY was killed in Vietnam the latter part of last year. I know you join widi me in expressing your sympathies to membeis of both families. Quite often someone expresses curiosity as to the wheredxMils of a dass­mate. The Alumni Office periodically provides me with diange of address in­formation. This win be my source as I pass on to you in the next few columns just who your neighbor mi^t be. Any information you could relay to me about guys I omit in certain areas would be appreciated. 
GO WEST YOUNG MAN: Over 70 have established residence in California. The Los Angeles area has attracted a quorum. CHARLIE AUGUSTINE. AL BLAZ. DICK BRlLUOrr. CHRIS FOLEY. BRIAN O'NEILL, DAVE ROMANO. JACK WERNER. WALT OSGOOD. VIC GRABOWSKI. BILL ZIEGLER. Dr. BOB OHAK. KEN FILHITI. TIM TAYLOR. MIKE GREELEY. MK E WOODS, GARY HORDEMANN. LOUIS IRIBARNE. GEORGE KANE, BARRY LEONE. DICK LIPPINCOTT. BROTHER JAMES MCDONNELL CSC. TED MIDDENDORF. JOHN MONTGOMERY. TOM WALSH. DAVE ONTIVEROS, BEN SALVATV and HAL SCHAEFGEN. Among the residenis of the San Francisco area number: BOB GALDABINI. GERRY MARTIN. DON BOIVIN. JOE BRACCO. Dr. JIM "Cocky Kid" GRAYDON. BOB HOFFMAN. TOM HOGAN. MKE JOYCE. GEORGE MITCHELL. DON PATLA. MIKE HARTNETT, DENNY BURAN. LARRY GACGERO. PAT McBiIAHON. LINZIE KRAMER. BROTHER BARNABAS NAIAR and JIM MIKACICH. San Diego's two leadii« dtizens are JOHN BRADLEY and "H" ORTHMEYER while HAROLD HOWELL and BILL WALSH Hve dose by. At Berkdey are JOHH SHANAHAN and MIKE ZWETTLER. DAN (HXNIERTY. TOM WEBER. PAUL ftOBB and EZIO SANSONI apparently found the way to San Jose. 
BILL CLEARY Ihres in Monte Sereno, JOE MARTELLA in Salinas, REX BRUMBACH and LOUIS PADBERG in Santa Baibara. JOE CAMARATA in B Segundo. ED SPORL in Arcadia, JC»N WILKINSON in Dnarte. MIKE COUGHUN is at Stanford. Dr. TDM DINA and BILL REAGAN in Monterey Fade. ItNtf McMURRAY in Sacramento and JUUO VALERA in H Cerrito. Would you bdiere TERRY JONES Vnta in East LdMUwn. M c CRAIG VOLLHABER in Mahtomedi. Minn, and KEN "Boae" ISPH(NU>ING is a hapiigr inhabitant of Washingkia Court HOOK, Ohio. 
An for now. Wil head East next liaK. You have no doubt noticed Oe deaitk of til news in Oe past cooiiie td ianes. I had fofwanled a ootnmn and it was misplaced by the magazine staff, lliey have apologized to me and asked that I forward that apology to you. 
H. James Krauser 8301 Garfield Street Bethesda, Maryland 20034 

'63 ED'S ACCOUNT TOM PETERSON is founder and president of Neovention Corp., a firm specializing in inventions, in Rochester, N.Y. He is the proud papa of a new baby boy. NEIL KELLEHER was appointed assL secy, in the securities depL for Travelers Insurance Co. He and wife and son are living in Glastonbury, Conn. ED COLLINS wrote a fascinating account concerning how FRANK DICELLO "introduced" Ed to his future wife, and how Ed introduced MIKE MCCARTHY to his wife. Ed is in JAG over in Nam, but Frank should be back by now. JOE MENDEL is working for Booz, Allen and Hamilton in NYC as a consultant, after graduating from Harvard MBA. GEORGE CHOBY reports his recent marriage and upcoming plans to practice dentistry in Springfield, Va., upon discharge from the Army in May. PAUL LEHNER graduated Harvard MBA with distinction, and is working for Irwin Management in Columbus, Ind. Paul is married and expecting his first baby in June. 
TED FRETEL is now working as a lawyer in New Haven, Conn. He's married and has a new daughter. CONRAD MAZLOWSKI is married and working for Clark Equipment Co. in Niles, Mich. J. C. MINGLEDORFF is president of Monroe Building and Loan ^sn., Monroe, La. He is married and has two children. GENE OSTERMANN is working for Lalejian and Assoc, in Redondo Beach, Calif., after spending 3'/i years in the USAF. JAY CHOLLAK is serving as a flight surgeon in Vietnam. He will return in June to a family practice clinic in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., with his wife and baby boy. NICK HAVEL isfinishing his USAF stint as a doctor, and will take residency in Martinez, Calif, soon. He has three children now. TOM SCHNEIDER is married to the former Pat Kohl, whose twin brother was in the class of '63. Tom is the father of two and is working as an art director at American Greeting Corp. in Cleveland. 
JAMES GRONDIN is the proud father of a baby boy. CLINTON BROOKS is working for Garrett Airesearch in L.A., and working toward Ph.D. at UCLA. He has two children now. JOHN OHALA married Manjari Agrawal in Delhi, India. The O'Halas will return to the U. of Cal. at Berkeley where John will be in the depL of linguistics, TOM BRUNNER reports the birth of a baby girl last May. DR. ROBERT P. STEPIS, Lake Forest College asst professor of English, is the author of an article "The Manuscripts of Robert Mannyng of Brunne's Chronicle of England," published in Manuscrita. He received his Ph.D. from Harvard in '67. GEORGE J. DOOLEY III, research scientist with the Aerospace Research Lab at Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio, has been promoted to captain. USAF capL Vernon 
L. Pellman Jr. has been decorated with the Air Medal at Tan Son Nhut AB, Vietnam. PHILIP A. LARRABEE, A.B. '63 graduated from Harvard Law School in '66 and passed the California Bar that year. He has recently completed service in the Army signal corps and has been appointed crier and law clerk to the Hon. Philip C. 

Wilkins of the U.S. District Court for the 
northern district of California at 
Sacramento. 
Tom Hoiopp 
R.D. 1, 55 ChurchiU SL 
Big Flats, N.Y. 14814 

'64 TJ MAKES IT THOMAS J. BROWN has been elected VP of advertising of the Joliet, Peoiia, 111. and Madison, Wis. Seven-Up Bottling Companies, all divisions of Joyce Seven-Up Bottlers, Inc. Tom and his wtfe, the former Rebecca Borcheis and three sons reside in Joliet, lU. MIKE HOLT and his wife Karen had their first child, a daughter, Kelley Anne in January of 1969. Mike obtained his MBA degree from Roosevdt 
U. and is now with Touche Ross and Co. in Detroit FRANCIS ZACHERL JR. married Joy McGovem and they now have two children and live in Cniar Grove, NJ. Francis is Data Processing mgr. for General Telephone and Electronics Service Corporation in NYC. JAMES V. MORRIS JR. of Lake Hopatcong, NJ. has been named an asst trust officer in the Personal Trust Investment Division of the Investment Dept of Bankers Trust Co. NY. CHARLES W. BLANCHARD received his MBA from Ohio State U. in '67 then entered the Navy as an ensign. He served two years as Supply Officer aboard the USS Ramsey, and was awarded the Navy Commendation Medal in May, '70. Since leaving the Navy he has been with Continental Can Co. in NYC as a researcher in the Marketing Dept MICHAEL P. TOAL has joined the First Bank and Trust Co., South Bend, in its marketing services division. LYLE FREDRICK BAIE has received his doctorate in oceanography from Texas A & M U. 
DAVID H. ATKINSON has been appointed asst mgr. of the Chicago office of E. F. Hutton Co. DR. SERGE ANTHONY MARTINEZ isfinishing his internship at Bethesda Naval Medical Center, Md. He will continue as a resident physician there handling ear, nose and throat cases. RICHARD V. FURNARI has been appointed associate buyer of portable electric tools in Montgomery Ward's Chicago. He is presently working for his MBA at Loyola U. FRANK S. MICELI has been appointed special asst to the NASA director of personnel in Washington. Frank was known at ND as first manager of University Village. For the past three years he has been service personnel specialist for science and applications at the NASA Manned-Spacecraft Center in Houston. JAMES DENIS O'HARE is now in the London Branch of The First National Bank of Chicago. Jim received his MBA from the Washington U^ St Louis. 
RICH GONSKI is director of sales for the Chicago Bulls of the NBA MIKE H(X.T is in management consulting with Toudie, Ross and Co. in Detroit He obtained his MBA from Roosevelt U. 
CARLOS ALDANA is woikmg in the central offices of Esso Colombiana at Bogota, an affiliate of New Jersey Standard OO. ROBERT P. KELLEY JR. graduated in June from the Harvard Giaduate School of Business Administnlion and then joined Holly Sugar Cbipi's coiponte development staff. Kelley has been assigned to Holly World Foods, Vac, HoOy's wholly owiMd subsidiary wiudi ^lecialiics in gourmet and specialty foods and markets in It Western states. Its.bead­
quarters are in San Francisco. 

JEFFREY S. PHILRIN received a feUow­
ship in nuclear science and engineering 

from the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission 
and has chosen the U. of Illinois at 
Champaign-Urbana for advanced study. 
He received his M.S. from Northwestern 
U. and is working toward the Ph.D. degree at the U. of Illinois. 

DAVID H. BARLOW was granted the degree of doctor of philosophy in experi­mental psychology, specializing in behavior therapy, from the U. of Vermont. He has been a teaching fellow at the 
U. of Vermont and director of clinical traim'ng at the department of rehabilitation and physical medicine, U. of Vermont RICHARD P. WOLSFELD JR. has formed a new company, Bather-Wolsfeld, Inc., to provide considting services in traffic engineering, transportation planning and urban data systems. JOHN FRANCIS MUSKA received the master of science degree from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in June, 1%9. 
JON DULL passed his candidacy exams for a Ph.D. in history at the U. of California at Berkeley. JAMES CAL­DERONE was awarded a graduate teaching assistantship at the U. of Cincinnati. STEPHEN HILBERT was named an assistant professor in mathematics at Ithaca College, Ithaca, N.Y. He just completed his Ph.D. at the U. of Maryland and taught last year at Ithaca College on a part-rime basis. RICHARD H. BURKEL received a graduate assistantship at the 
U. of Cincinnati. 

WILLIAM SCHMA is presendy the director of tri-parish religious education for Benton Harbor and Saint Joseph, Mich. Bni is married to Geraldine Roy, Livonia, Mich. ROBERT BELL has earned his master's in education from New Mexico State. He has signed a contract with Santa Clara, Calif., to teach educationally handicapped children. ALBERT A. GOODRICH is teaching Spanish and social problems at Three Lakes, Wis., High SchooL ERNEST J. SCHARPF JR. passed the CPA exam in May, 1968, and received his CPA certificate in the state of Colorado Sept 6, 1968. Presently, he is assistant plant controller (accounting supervisor) for Kaiser Aerospace and Electronics Corp., in Palo Alto, Calif. 
R. LOUIS PIERMARINI has been ordained to the priesthood for the diocese of Worcester, Mass. MICHAEL Mc-CUSKER received his Ph.D. in atomic physics from Rice U. His first child, a son, was born May 31, 1969, and was named Gerard Donovan McCusker, for Mike's father-in-law, GERARD DONOVAN '40. Mike is now in Boulder, Colo., working at the Joint Institute for Laboratory Astrophysics. YANG J. KIM, his wife and three children are living in Bartow, Ha. He is currently with Swift Agri­cidtural Chemicals Co., as chief, new products section. JEFFREY S. PHILBIN received his M.S. degree in nuclear engineering from Northwestern U. in June, 1969, and is currently working on his Ph.D. dissertation at the U. of Illinois on an AEC fellowship. He is engaged to Margaret Boedecker of Chicago. 
JOHN V. STUCKA served with the 

U.S. Army in Okinawa for 16 months. He is the father of one daughter, Mary Kathleen, bom Feb. 3, 1969. John is public rdations coordinator,. Farm Bureau Insurance Group, Lansing, Mich. DAVID 
GARNER is a captain in the Marine Corps and is currently in his second year at Harvard Business School. 
GEORGE GUZZARDO was married to Ana Webster in November, 1969. They are living in Kewanee, 111., where George is continuing his work with Guzzardo's Book Store and Card Shops. 
JOHN NOON and his family of three children are living in Rochester, N.Y. WALT DOBRANSKI is at Ft. Rfley, Kan., as an interrogator with the intelligence corps. Prior to entering the Army, he received a master's degree from Vanderbilt U. in Russian and worked for Northwest Orient Airlines. 
DON DEL MANZO is a lieutenant in the. Civil Engineering Corps of the Navy, is stationed in Rhode Island and is completing his Ph.D. in civil engineering. Now living in London, England, is J.S. KOLATA with his wife and two children. He was with the VSS Sea Leopard and now is attached to Cincusnaveur Staff. PETE LA FLEUR married Bonnie Buyan and they now have one son, Peter. After receiving his M.D. degree at Case Western Reserve, Pete is now interning at Akron Children's Hospital and will serve in the U.S. Public Health Service Bureau of Itidian Health, after three years of pediatric training. 
Clay Stephens 206 Marian Av. Fanwood, NJ. 07023 
'65 LOTS OF NEWS 
Our class has lost another member. We were just notified that JAMES B. DAVIS HI died in June 1969. JIM CARROLL and wife, Paula, are expecting their first child in October and are living near Washington D.C. Jim is now playing with the N.Y. Jets and works at Koons' Ford in Virginia in the off season. JIM DWYER was married to Barbara Elizabeth Doty in Rye, N.Y. in May. Details on the wild affair are lacking at time of publica­tion. RAY SIEGFRIED'S wife presented him with a baby boy last December that apparently is an exact duplicate of him— including the same name. BART TIERNAN has left the law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore to become associated with the Wall Street law firm of SuUivan & Cromwell. JOE HORNBACK has accepted an assistant professorship at the U. of Denver in the Dept. of Chemistry. Joe and wife, Nan, have a boy, Joey (3Vi). JULES VAN DERSARL was married June '68 and interned at the USAF Medical Center in Bnoxi, Miss., after receiving his MD from St. Louis U. He is now serving a three-year dermatology residency in San Antonio at the Wilford Hall Medical Center. JOHN ANTON has received his Ph.D. in applied Mathematics from Brown and is now working in Palo Alto, Calif, for Systems Control, Inc. where he will 
engage in cybernetics. Specifically—a study of controllability of nerve reaction by chemical stimulation and study of a fifth generation computer. John has also programed himself for marriage to Nell Deaver in August in Chevy Chase, Md. 
Another wedding occurred last August when LARRY COMES was married to Sue Cronin in Western Springs, III. Larry has completed his Navy tour and now is employed by the Continental Bank in Chicago while attending the MBA program of Loyola U. part time. Capt KENNETH 
T. KEMPER graduated from Tulsa U. 
Congrats 
RALPH V. CAPASSO, JR. '60, of Evanston, III., has been appointed to the position of division manager, industrial and agricultural products for Borg-Wamer International. He will be responsible for world-wide marketing and sales of the U.S. baaed division and overseas subsidiary companies. 
NESTOR R. WEIGAND, JR. '60 has been designated a Certified Residential Broker by the National Institute of Real Estate Brokers. He is a partner in the firm of J. P. Weigand and Sons, Wichita, Kan., a real estate brokerage firm, with which he has been associated since graduating from ND. 
EDWARD V. QUINN '60 has been 
named vice president, mariceting by 
Paine, Webber, Jackson and Curtis, 
nationwide investment firm. He and 
his wife, Nancy, reside in River 
Forest, 111. 
PAT SHERIDAN '62 has been elected to the board of directors of the 
U.S. Jaycees. During the past year he has served as vice president for the Michigan Jaycees. Sheridan, a CPA, is a manager of Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co. 
ROBERT L. HAMILTON JR., '62 has been named general manager of the Dumore Co., succeeding his father who continues as chairman of the board and president. Bob joined the Racine, Wis. company after gradua­tion and has served as vice president. 
DAVID M. COOPER '63 has been manager, advertising and sales promotion for General Ekctric's Information Systems Programs Deputy Division. He resides in Tempe, Ariz, and for the past year has directed advertising for GE's large-scale 600 line of informatiai systems. 
•^^^fl 
33 

Law School in '68 and is now serving as an adjutant in Cu Chi Vietnam where he received the Bronze Star for meritorious achievement and was cited for his initiative in obtaining outstanding results. BOB DUNN received his MS from Penn State in June '67 and is now working on his Ph.D. in aeronautical engineering at the U. of 111. Bob and wife, Martha, have a son, Christopher (1V4). MIKE TRAGARZ is working on his Ph.D. at ND and MIKE SCHMID moved to S.B. CHARLES JUSTER received his Ph.D. in nuclear engineering from ND in Aug. '69 and is now working at Autonetics in Anaheim, Calif, as a radiation engineer. GARY HOSBEIN was admitted to the Michigan Bar in '69 and is now working as a trust administrative mgr. for the Detroit Security Bank & Trust Co. He and wife, Barbara, have a daughter, Stephanie. PAUL RAY was promoted to unit mgr. with Metro­politan Life Ins. Co. in '68 and last Sept. was designated a chartered life under­writer. Paul has a daughter, Julie Arm, bom in November. THOMAS HECK also had a daughter, Larissa Daniel, bom last fall. SP/4 ROBERT BOLDUC is now serving wtih the Saigon Support Command at Long Binh, Vietnam. RICHARD LABRECQUE is serving a three-year tour with the Air Force at the Manned-Space­craft Center working specifically on the design of the Lunar descent trajectory. In January he was married to Sharon Priddy of Houston. Capt. JOHN SCOTT has received the USAF Commendation medal for meritorious service at Perrin AFB, Tex. and USAF CapL ED KELLY is currently serving at Chicksands RAF Station, England. 
I have completed my internship and am now serving a residency in medicine at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta. Kathy and I have a son, Kevin James (7 months). 


1965 Attendees 
JIM ADAMONIS, JIM AFFELDT, TONY 
ALESSANDRINI, DENNY ALLEN, MICHAEL 
AMBROSE, WILLL\M J. BAKER, MICHAEL 
BELLOLI, LARRY BESHEL, DOUG 
BODNOVICH, WILLIAM BOYLE, JOHN 
BRANDT, DANIEL BRICK, WILLIAM 
BRIDENSTINE, JIM BROOKE, CHARLES 
R. BROWN, j6SEPH BUCOLO, RICHARD 
BURBOTT, CHARLES BURNS. ANTHONY 
CAREY, RICHARD CAREY. JIM CARROLL, 
NEAL CLARK, DON CONDIT, MICHAEL 
CONNIFF, GEORGE CONVY, RICHARD 
J. CONYERS, C.S.C., DAVID CUSACK, 
PATRICK F. DALY, VINCENT DALMONTE, 
RICHARD DARKO, JOHN DcCHELLIS, 
GERRY DIEBOLD, FRED DOLEZAL, 
JAMES DUTMERS, ED FANNING, 
TOM FELLRATH, JAMES MICHAEL 
FITZGERALD, BOB FITZGERALD, 
CARL GIOMBETTI, RAYMOND GLASS­
MEYER. JOHN GORDON, RAYMOND 
GROLLER, THOMAS GUTRICH. 
WILLIAM (BILL) HAFEL. ROBERT 
HANLEY, JAMES HAVERLAND. MARTIN 
HEALY. MIKE HERR. MICHAEL 
HOFFMAN. DON HOGAN, JOHN HOWARD, 
ED HURLEY, DANIEL IGOE. EDWIN 
JEROME. GARY JONES. RICHARD KELLY, 
JOHN KOONS, JOHN KOZAK. BERNARD 
KUHN. RICHARD LANGE, REX LARDNER, 
BOB LEE, SAL LEVATINO. JAMES LONGE, 
DUNCAN MacDONALD. EDWARD MACK. 
MICHAEL MAIER. JERRY MARTIN, MIKE MATHIAS, KENNETH MCCARTHY. SAMUEL MCCLELLAND, ARTHUR MIER. IAMES 
MORLEY. JOHN MOROUN, JOHN MOVE, LAWRENCE P. MULLIGAN. PATRICK 
NASH. NORM NICOLA. THOMAS ODDO. KENNETH ODMARK, LAWRENCE PEPPER, ANTONE PERRONE. WILLIAM W. PREDEBON. EDWARD PRICE. TAMES RAKERS. PAUL RAY. JON RITTEN, CRAIG RONEY. JOHN RYAN. STILLMAN ST. CLAIR. DAVID SCHIAVONE. LYSLE SHAW. WILLIAM SIDDONS. WILLIAM SLATTERY, STANLEY STRZELECKI, MIKE 

THEISEN, WILLIAM TUCKER, JR., KEVIN 
WHALEN. 
James P. Hamisch 
3700 Buford Hgwy, Apt 98 
Atlanta. Ga. 30329 
'66 BACK IN THE LINEUP 

I'd Uke to thank TOM SULLIVAN for 
pinch-hitting for me last month. I was 
really pressed for time and it was really 
appreciated. I'd like to reiterate wbM 
Tom said about our class reunion foDowing 
the Army game on Oct 10 in the Mohasony 
Room of the Morris Inn. The weather win 
still be nice and tickets will be idatively 
easy to obtain. So please try to make it to 
this affair which promises to be a really 
enjoyable time. I'd also like to remind 
you all that our five-year reimion is less 
than a year away (June 10, 11 and 12) 
and that long range piatming should be 
initiated now. 

I heard from ED AUSTIN lecently who is located here in Chicago working with the Midwest Stock Exchange as a marketing consultant after getting an MBA from DePaul. He and his lovdy wife, Kath, are the proud parents of two diildren, one boy and one giri. Ed visited with '66er TOM ANDERSON, in Qeveland. Tom is working in VISTA'S legal program. Ed said he heard from PAUL O'BRIEN and MIKE OILMAN who are living in East Orange, NJ. Paul is working on an MBA at NYU and Mike, who is a captain in the USMC, is a recruiter working out of NYC (which isn't a very safe job latdy). MIKE MALLOY and Ed have been exchanging opinions on the stock market. Mike is a registered representative with Dean Witter and Co. JOHN "J.B." McGOWAN was married on March 30 in Chestnut Hill, Pa. 
J.B. is a commodity broker with Laird, Bissell and Meads in Wilmington, Del. Classmates PAUL C. RIEBENACKER. TOM BEGLEY, JOHN WALTERS and COLE CLARK attended. 
JOE JOHN has completed his four years in med school at Case Western Reserve and . has started his internship at Prediyteiian-St Luke's Hospital here in Chicago. Qassmate TOM DONOVAN wiU also be at SL Luke's as an intern. JAMES "PAT" COONEY is a law derk in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in Newman, Ga., and is the happy dad of a dau^ter, Qena. RICHARD WENDT is an actuary for the Securities and Exchange Commis­sion in Washington, D.C. LARRY DWYER had a fascinating tour of the USSR from Nov. 10, 1%9 to Dec. 22. 1969 with the lUini Jazz Band. He was married last August and is currently working on his PhJ>. in music education at die U. of Illinois. TOM LOFTIS was married last August to Mary Louise Hdlmuth (SMC '66) and is currently at the U. of Michigan grad schooL Tom spent 13 mtmths in Vietnam as civil affairs officer north of DaNang. MARTY BRUECKER has also completed his active duty and was married in January. Marty is worichig witfi Amer­ican Airlines in Dallas, Tex. JOE KING writes from Rio de Janeiro when he is working with USAID, United States Agency for Interrutional DevdopmenL He would love to hear from anyone tnvding in South America. TMMl RAEBER was married in Evansville in December. He is a CPA and is Comptroller of Canteen Service Co. Inc. in Indianapolis. FRANK FOLEY is here in the Windy City where he is a stockbroker for HornUower and 
Weeks and the father of a daughter and son. TONY ROZUM is teaching at Detroit Engineering Institute while getting a degree at Lawrence Institute of Technology. Tony also has a son and a daughter. I was deeply grieved to receive the news of the deaths of two of our classmates in May, PAUL R. BERNARD and ROBERT K. RYAN. My deepest sympathy goes out to their families and I'm sure I speak for the entire dass when I say they wOl both be remembered in our thoughts and prayers. MIKE HANNIGAN writes from South Bend where he is working as a district sales mgr. for Whed Horse Company. Mike was married at Sacred Heart Church in November. He currently addressed 1200 members of Junior Achieve­ment in SL Louis. BERNARD BREHL received his MBA from the U. of Pittsburgh in 1967 and now lives in Wilmington, Dd. with his wife, Virginia. Bemie is a technical representative for the Fluorocarbons Division of E. I. duPont de Nemours. LARRY HOUDEK works in the production and inventory control depL of Wells Lamont Corporation in Niles, 
111. Larry had a daughter, Lynn Maty in February of 1969. DON OHLMEYER, JR. is associate director of ABC-TVs "Wide Worid of Sports," a frequent Emmy winner. Don is the proud father of a son. 
I've been announdng births of dassmates' children for the last four years and now it is with great pride that I armounce the birth of my first child, Kimberiy Ann, on April 10, 1970. Both Kimmy and my lovely wife, Carol, are doing well. I never knew a child could bring so much joy into someone's life. 
Keep October 10th in mind and keep the info cards coming. I hope you're all having a great summer. 
Richard H. Angdotti 
8640 S. 86th Ave., Apt. 203 Justice, 111. 604S8 

'66L NAMES AND ADDRESSES Donna and MIKE DELFRA sent a note from Richmond, Va., that Louis Anthony was bora on April 6, 1970, and weighed in at 7 lbs. 9 oz. JAY DOUGHERTY wrote that he and Monica had a son, James F. Dougherty III, on March Sth. Their other child, Elizabeth, was 3 in June. Jay is with Salley, Bams, Pajon & Immer, Suite 700 — 100 Biscayne Tower, 100 Biscayne Boulevard, Miami, Fla. 33132. The POLKINGS are now settled in Chariotte, N.C., at S921 F Quafl HoUow Road, Chariotte, N.C. 28211 (Tdephone: (704) 364-6479). While in Chicago on business I spent a very {feasant evening with JOHN GOTTLICK who entertained me at the Illinois Athletic aub. MIKE SULLIVAN'S new address is 807 Sharon Dr., Woodstock, lU. 60098. TOM WARD'S address is 12134 Stirrup Road, Reston, Va. 22070. 
BOB MURPHY has been promoted to assistant section chief of the Ciiminal Section of the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice. Bob's time has been heavily committed to the Kent State investigation. 
Frank Gregory S018 Woodland Way Annandale, Va. 22003 

'C7L PICKY, PICKY My column for the last issue was returned 
by the editor because he received it two 
days after deadline. PICKY, PICKY, 
PICKY. 
In one of JOHN HARGROVE'S recent 
(and frequent) letters, he mentioned he 
was defending a Marine charged with 
murder. Since then, two articles in the Long 
Island (N.Y.) Daily Press have fUled me 
in on the details. The clippings were 
forwarded by my sister. In one, John's 
father was being interviewed on his feelings 
after learning his son had been selected to 
defend one of five Marines accused of 
murdering 16 Vietnamese civilians in the 
hamlet of Son Thang. Mr. Hargrove said: 
"I'm sure the Marine Corps would not have 
given him the case if they didn't have 
confidence. I would certainly put confidence 
in him." Those of us who know him would 
have to agree. An AP Wirephoto accom­
panying another article showed John, 
dressed in fatigues, accompanying his client 
to a pretrial hearing in Da Nang. 
Change of Address: TOM McDON-
OUGH, 11025 South Hale, Chicago, III. 
60643. Received a letter from GARY KAUP 
on the stationery Crist & Kaup, 1605 First 
Ave., Middletown, Ohio. Gary's Pat is 
teaching and expecting their first child in 
August. KUDOS: Mr. William Francis 
Lawler announces the marriage of his 
daughter Rose Mary to Mr. JAMES SEAN 
KEENAN on Thursday, the 28th of May, 
1970, Saint Louis, Mo. 
James C. Heinhold 
16 Morris Road 
East Haven, Connecticut 06513 
'68 COMING HOME 
Your class secretary is doing such a good 
job on this column that part of the last 
issue was deleted and will be included in 
this issue. 
At MIKE CRUTCHER's open house during the Cotton Bowl, were DAVE MARTIN, a member of the Chicago Bears, STEVE ANDERSON, from Cincinnati Medical School, MIKE CAFFEY, who was on leave from the seminary at ND, and ROCKY BLEIER, home on leave from the Army, recovering from wounds received in Vietnam. I received a letter from Lt. GERRY MOORE who is stationed at Ft. Lee, Va. and is attending a Supply Manage­ment Officers course. Congratulations to Gerry on his marriage to the former Miss Bette Puljord on Feb. 20, 1970. Gerry expects his first assignment to be Germany. On behalf of the members of the Class of '68, I would like to extend my sincere sympathies and prayers to the parents and wife of ARTHUR J. RAMBO who was killed in action on Nov. 26, 1969. The honors which Art received were the Silver Star, Bronze Star, Purple Heart, and Good Conduct Medal. 
Let's keep that mail coming, and if you're in the area of Quang Tri stop in and visit. I will be leaving Vietnam the last week in August, therefore any correspon­dence after the 15th of August should be sent to my home address. 259 N. 17th Street, Bloomfield, New Jersey 07003 
Sp/5 Leonard J. Pellecchia 
148 36 8584 64th Finance Section APO SF 96495 
'68L PASSING TIME You can tell that time Is passing rapidly from the fact that our classmates in 
Vietnam are beginning to return home. I 
received a call from BOB WILCZEK a few 
days ago. Bob has been back in the States 
for about a month and is ix>w worklnt in 
the Washington, D.C. area teaching a dass 
on the interrogation of prisoners of war. 
He, Molly and Meg are living in Maryland 
and have taken up sailing on the 
Chesapeake. Before coining back home 
Bob got to see Hawaii and Japan and loved 
both. He enjoyed his tour in Vietnam and 
even recommended that I volunteer. I am 
beginning to wonder about that 1 also 
spoke to JOHN SCRIPP not long ago, who 
reports that he. Sue and the kids are doing 
fine. John's year of legal assistance work 
in Milwaukee is coming to a close and be 
is now faced with the important decision of 
what he wants to do next. He has a fine 
offer from a firm in that city but still has 
strong feelings about heading back to 
Chicago. Although some of our classmates 
are coming home from the Far East, 
others are heading out there. John informed 
me that Kathy and BILL TEPE are now 
in Taiwan. 
It looks like the class will be having its 
first elected official before long. LANNY 
BONENBERGER won the primary for the 
Democratic nomination for the West 
Virginia House of Delegates in his district. 
He led the field of eight candidates and will 
now run unopposed in November. It looks 
like Lanny's famous handshake did him 
well after all. Lanny and TOM CURTIN 
took .a trip to St. Louis to visit CHARLIE 
WEISS. Charlie is working with a litigation 
firm there and doing a good bit of trial 
work. The word I receive is that he is 
highly regarded by the members of the 
firm. Kathie, Erin and LARRY MILLER 
are doing well in New Jersey. Larry is now 
working for the state Attorney General. 
DICK HIRSCH is now working for the 
National Lawyers' Guild. PETE KING 
continues his adventurous association with 
the amazing Roy Cohn. One of his first 
assignments was as Cohn's attorney in a 
civil suit in which Cohn was the defendant. 
Pete came away victorious. Pete and Rose­
mary are expecting the baby any day now 
(at the time of this writing). I was hoping 
to make the announcement now, but it will 
have to wait until the next issue. 
I cannot remember what I wrote last 
month, so at the risk of repeating myself, 
I'll report some more news from Vietnam. 
JOHN COYLE took FRANK SMITH'S 
advice and went to Australia on his "R & 
R." He too has nothing but praise about 
the people there. In addition to his infantry . duties, JC is getting a good deal of trial 
experience as well as doing legal assistance 
work. I am pleased to report that JC has 
been appointed as Clerk to Judge Robert 
Shaw of the Federal District Court in 
Newark and will assume his duties in 
September. He will be working with HANK 
CATENACCI of the Class of '69. 
That's it for now—please keep in touch. 
Dennis C. Thelen 
Apartment 202 
7816 Lisa Drive 
Norfolk, Virginia 23518 
'69L HAPPY DAYS 
In opening, I am pleased to state that June 
27 was the happy occasion of my marriage 
to Patsy Plunkett in South Bend. We had 
the pleasure of seeing many friends at the 
wedding. 
My special thanks are directed to JIM 
MACKIN whose contact with our fellow '69ers these last few months has provided almost an of the following information. JSm has compleled his Cburt of Appeals deifc­ship in Chicafo and has accepted a position with a Syracuse law finn. In Us wanderings be had occasion to visit Joyce and BOB NBRITNCK who have moved their famDy from Champaign to Bloomiat­ton wbere Bob has taken a new position. Jim also spent time in D.C. visiting with JOHN MACLEOD, DAVE LARIMER, and MERLE WILBERDING. John lemaim associated with Reavis, Pogoe, Neal k Rose. Dave is winding up bis derkship and is joining the office of the U.S. Attonwy in 
D.C. The "Bear," according to Jim. is now an Army JAG officer and is cranking out three or four briefs a day. Jim's fbither encounters induded RUSS HEIPLE who is stationed with the Army Finance Corps in Chicago, and who seems to have stopped studying. Also getting some militaiy experience was BRYAN HUGHES. B^an spent the spring travding with the Reserves, first to Georgia, where he was stationed near TOM BONNER, and thence to San Antonio. He has now returned to bis practice in Malone. A letter to Jim from Patty and JOHN RITTINGER indicates that John will be stationed at Fort Bragg until August, at which time he will go to Korea. 
Finally, Jim indicates that RALPH LITZENBERGER, currently engaged in the defense of our country, will be married this summer. MIKE RUNDE, who tau^t this last winter in Milwaukee, has taken ­Miss Anne Mc Dermott for his bride. I have been in frequent comminiication with Terry and MATT DWYER who are spending this sununer in an ocean-firont cottage near Providence, R.I. Matt and his neighbor, AL REED, are finishing Naval Justice School there. I was jieased to bear from ZEP KENNEDY who writes that be and Sue have settled for the time being in Kingston, N.Y. Zep, who was admittedto the N.Y. Bar in April together with ZEP FRANTIN and TOM McCUSKER, staffs half of the two-man office which handles all of the le ^ problems arising at the IBM Plant in Kingston. Frantin and TIM "PUMA" MCLAUGHLIN are working in a NYC defendant's firm. TONY SEIMER made it to Denver this spring for about a week and scouted out Legal Aid opportiuii­ties in the Rocky Mountain area. He is hoping to join other Doiners similarly engaged in Denver, to-wit: JIM SECK­INGER. RICH HENNESSEY and TERRY KELLY. JEFF CAVANAUCH called wfaOe passing through Denver to say that be and LEO O'BRIEN have bad a Uemendously successful year at Loyola Law School in 
L.A. Jeff is spending his simuner attending a series of conferences in numerous states, including Hawaii. 
Scott Atwell 
500 Continental Natl. Bank Bid. 
Englewood, Colorado 80110 
'69 MBA DOUBLE TROUBLE 
It seems that most of the recent news has come from military installations. RICK YARBOROUCH writes from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Rick is fulfilling a 24-inonth tour as a corpsman with the Navy Reserve. He expects to be in Cuba untfl January 
1971, so if anyone makes an imschedided trip to Havana, be sure to give Rick a calL TOM JOHNSON enlisted in the Army OCS program last Jime and received his conunission on May 22, 1970 at Fort 
as 
Belvoir, Va. He is now stationed at the 

Aberdeen Proving Grounds near Baltimore. 
Now to the news of the remaining civilian members of the class. JACK O'BRIEN is neaiing the completion of his management training program with Ford in Detroit. JOHN NESTOR is preparing for a permanent assignment with the Con­tinental Illinois Bank in Chicago. Rumor has it that KEVIN SULLIVAN is consider­ing returning to the ivory towers of aradrmia, possibly at the ND Law School. Another member of the class of 1969 left the ranlcs of bacheloihood when RON JERUTIS and Susan Coury were married May 23, 1970. 
It's hard to believe more than a year has passed since the first class of ND MBA's were set loose on the business worid. With the graduation of the second class in June, oiu- ranks are now doubled. I hope that all of you will continue to keep us posted on your whereabouts and activities. 
Joe Cavato 
4360 Maryland Ave. 
St Louis, Mo. 63108 
STUDENT ViEW 

—continued from page 7 means it seems to find to keep man from accomplishing all that his heart seeks to. I know that a lot of you live those sorts of lives now; and I, as one, can only say, thank you. 
But the times call for more men of that stature, and I say that we cannot afford to sit by and rest on the myth of the Notre Dame man. We have to remind ourselves to live it every day. To turn outward and to meet the problems of our times. 
In closing, I would like to bring it a little closer to home. Whatever your feelings are about what is happening on college campuses today, remember that there are concerned young men and women seeking to build a better world. And if at times they don't live up to your expecta­tions, look and see whether you have lived up to theirs. If you say they've got crazy ideas, ask yourself how many times you have taken the time to really talk to them about yours—even to talk to your own sons and daughters. 
Communication is the key. . . . But remember, it must be a com­munication of the spirit, one that transcends every petty political question that mankind has been able to create to keep people from growing close to one another. Notre Dame's unique ^irit, groimded upon love and trust in God, can lead us to greater heights of truly human accomplishment—^if we believe in it, trust our hearts and live it to the fullest 
'70L TAPPED AGAIN It seems that, prior to his dqiutuie, JOE LEAHY elected me to aenre as dtat news reporter to the ALUMNUS. However, the success of the column is ealifdy 19 to you since your dass news depcwh on you. I can only pass on news Oat cadi of you sends me. Please take a cooile of aiiHtes every other month to send me a short letter or even just a post card. Indude not only news about yoursd^ bat also news about other members of oar dass. Sodi events as weddings, engafements, birOs, pro­motions, changes of addicK, and ictiooal gatherings of dass memihtrs are ahnqrs of interest Hdp others to answer die qnestioo "I wonder what he b doing" by sen^ig in news about yoursdf. 
Nancy and I are slowly fetting settled in our new apartment Like most of you, I am working and taking a bar review comse. I see TOM DELUCA qnite often as we are taking the same review oamie. Nancy and I were paid a visit last iwdc by GEOFF MYNETT from London. Geoff had just finished his bar finals and was 00 hoGday in the States. He had been lb Oe iWin Cities to visit DICK BLUMBERG. On his way to Cindnnati he stopped at ND vAeie he saw JAMES DOYLE and DICK TU(XIY. Dick was home for the weekend, and then be and Jean were leaving for Quantioo when he would continue trainiiig. Congratulations are in order for KEN IVERSON and Marie Zwadi who were married June 7. I win await further word as to vdiether DAN RYBAK made it to the wedding, and mote importandy whether he made it back. 
Joseph E. Kane 5465 Kenwood Rd., Apt 401 Cincinnati, (%io 45227 
THE FIGHTING 
• IRISH 

FALL CLASS REUNIONS 
PURDUE—September 26 1928—Monogram Lounge, Athletic & Convocation Center 1929—Electrical Engineering Lab, Engineering BIdg. 1933—informal pre-game get-together at Morris Inn Cocktail 
Lounge 1954—To be announced. 1955—Shamrock Room, Morris Inn 1956—Center For Continuing Education 1958—Mahogany Room, Morris Inn 1959—Morris Inn Patio 
ARMY—October 10 1931—Monogram Lounge, Athletic & Convocation Center 1960—Shamrock Room, Morris Inn 1966—Mahogany Room, Morris Inn 
ND Club of Pittsburgh—Monogram Lounge, Athletic & Con­vocation Center 
LSU—Novmnber 21 1957—To be announced. 
To arrange reunions contact the Notre Dame Alumni Association, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
CILtJBS ^°^" Go"""" '^^ (right) talks franchising with Milton Shaw (left), executive vice president of the Massachusetts Assoc, of Real Estate Boards and Philip L. Lowe, chairman of the board of ITT Sheraton Hotels. More than ISO realtors, bankers and investors attended the recent seminar on franchising in Newton, Mass., sponsored by the ND Club of Boston and the Mass. Association. Gorman, who lives in Needham, Mass., was general chairman of the event. He is president of Gorman <t Associates, Realtors, Committee members from the ND Club were: John P. Karle '56, Charles J. Patterson '47, George F. Cronin Jr. '59 and Arthur P. Murphy '59. 
BOSTON On June 4, the Annual Golf Outing was held at Wollaston Golf Club. DON COTE '52 chaired the event which had the largest turnout in its history. Low gross was won by BOB MARR '58 and low net by TOM ROURKE '60. Father JACK FITZGERALD '55 edged out GEORGE WILLIAMS '62 by one stroke for high gross. On June 19, UND Night at the Pops was held. JAY CURLY '53 and JACK CURTIN '62 deserve a big pat on the back for a fine event. 
The ND Man of the Year award was presented to the KINNEALEY brothers, JOE '39 and TOM '37. The committee could make no better selection of two men who truly represent the ND spirit The Scholarship Committee presented scholar­ships of $500 each to Robert Ger­maine '74 of Milton and John Flynn '74 from Brockton. These young men were selected by the committee from a large group of fine applicants. We wish them luck in their freshman year at ND. The next club event is the Freshman Send-off Dinner in late August. At that time the winners of the Junior Achievement Award will be presented. 
Mike OTooIe '55 
BUFFALO President HENRY BURNS JR. held a luncheon meeting hosted by former club president JOHN DeLUCA at the Buffalo 
Savings Bank dining room. It was 
attended by the club officers, directors, 
and advisors to the president to plan 
the year's activities. 
President Bums attended the Alumni Wives Installation Banquet on May 21 at which he was presented by President Maty Ann Donius a $150 check for the club's Scholarship Fund. 
The June 10 general meeting was a livdy one. Three students currently attending the University gave their views on the spring happenings on campus and answered question^ put to them by club nMmbers. A stimulating dialogue developed that helped to educate both sides. 
Marvin J. LaHood '58 
CHICAGO The Annual Testimonial Dinner for the retiring officers and directors of the dub was held on June 4 at Johnny Lattner's Marina City Restaurant President PAT MONTROY '53, presented plaques to the retiring directors: JOSEPH J. ARCHIBALD JR. '50, Dr. RICHARD 
M. CRONIN '46, HARVEY G. FOSTER '39, JUDGE LOUIS B. GARIPPO '52. ARCH F. GOTT '37, JOHN P. HEALY '69, GERALD C. SPECHT '49 and DONALD E. STEPHAN '64. A spedal plaque and award were given to the immedi­ate past president KEN SCHUSTER '49, for the onm—dN; joh fce dU ( 
the-pMt JCHT.' .The-drib's 
Oaiiiig is let fariMoadqr. Aag. 3. 
OwiMnr CW>i A n r 
HMM dChii Maff, t 

us oa this year's .pnivecli 
steak <KMcr.^ Ifee-• 
by DAN GIBK Jr. 'ST. I 
MADDUX'57.|ifniiiii. m addUoa to fotrf 
vealher. ihe.utMl iae anajr of mM. Md 
door prixs.: tfnt.-the fiat hifUii^ii of Ac 
1969 ND footbal seaxM w i be i 
tnB paiiol tte cbnie. It i 
eveiyoBe wil be aUe^to OMke das 
always, popular eveotj 
Bin cafaiii 'S8: 
CINCINNATI 
The dirft. hdd its aaaual eiectioa matSmt 
Jvae 29 at the Stadna Oab. New 
oiBcers dKaca to lead Ae dab weie 
MICHAEL BRADY '59. presideai: HAL 
SUNDERMAN 'U. VP; THMIAS 
EAGEN '66. lecietaiy: and ROBERT 
HOFACRE 'S6. tieasiiier. 
The anaoal GoU Outint aad abo UND 
Night w a take piaGe on inly 22 at dK 
Hyde Park Golf and Omady Oabi 
The 19T0,Maa of dK Year award wM be 
presented at the dtaner th 
Ihe 1969 Notre Dane Foodidl 
were shown at the spripg meetiag at the 
Burger Bieweiy. Pfaos are boat aade 
for die annnl "Meet the Fftihana" 
pacnic to be hdd in early Septeadm. 
Tom Eagen '66 
CLEVELAND On April 20 we hdd UND N«ht at die Clevdand HotcL Chairman FRED W. FRIEND 'SO took the reins this year and nut a most interntinf show widp i redprocal eulotiziiig and iaipiuaipin digs from one board member to the odMr. At this banquet, we try to stinadale die Friars Club afhir and turn it into an .. event where we get to roast everybody dut win stand the heat for the year's past adminisiration's peffonnanoe, or laie- <; performance, whichever cpmes to mind. < first. Impieineiitiiig pur own Rowaa. and Martin skit was an address by oar fine ,-r friend over the yean—SLEETY JIM CROWLEY. Anodwr AO-Americaa from the Four Horsemen era—DON MILLER '2S noslalgjrally introdoced Jim. who had .ns-:. laughing, ctyiag and singias the Hght Sons with a truly doquent and humorous address. We tndy apptecialed his ap-: pearance. The evening also cumbiBMl our Man of the Year Award, with the redpient this year being C. J. CALDWELL "25, longtime active member in our dob,, . practidng orthodontist and truly worthy of our Man of the Year Award.; Hats pS to Dr. Caldwdl and coogiatidatiaas'to'a:; fine guy. Congralnlalions are afao ia store for Fred Fiiead. who woiked long and ^ ' hard in makiiv the evening a soGGCM. 
Our next fimctioa took, place May 27---. an evening in the Flats pot logrthrr by our Women's Cfaib. It tmaed out to be hishly successful also as our local : papers agreed. 
Patrick J. Cannon' 
CimNBCliCUT VALLEVr On May 14 die Coaatctinit Valqr CUb, in comnaction widi Ae New Oavea aad-^.'V 
the Naugatuck Valley Clubs, held UND Night at the Holiday Inn in Meriden, Conn. Co-chairmen of the event once again were MIKE CARROLL '55 and BILL MCCAFFREY '60 who did a fine job in making UND Night the success it was. At the dinner the newly elected officers of the Conn. Valley Club were installed. FLOYD RICHARDS '42 becomes the new president. Bill McCaffrey, VP, Mike Carroll, treasurer, and I will remain as secretary. 
The Man-of-the-Year Award was presented to JOHN McGUIRE '62 for his outstanding contributions to the club over the past few years. The highlight of the evening was, of course, our speaker, the Rev. John C. Walsh, VP for Academic Affairs. I think I can speak for all who attended the dinner by saying that we all enjoyed his talk on "ND and the 70's" and were most impressed by Father's candid answers to all questions. 
Paul Sanner "62 

DALLAS The ND Club of Dallas held its annual picnic June 20. BILL MARKEY '51 was chairman of the function. He was ably assisted by HUGH BRAY '54 and PAT DWYER '52. JIM JUST '59 and AL GLEASON '58 organized games for the youngsters and adults and as usual Jim Just turned out to be the "ringer" in the horseshoe contest. 
Club President JOHN RONAN '55 has been most gratified by the interest in the club this year. Our next event will be the "Back to School Bash" on August 29. 
New officers to lead the club in 1970-71 are: John Ronan, president; LARRY BEDFORD '57 and JOE BRASSARD '53, VPs; CHICK MARTIN '59, secretary; and Hugh Bray "54, treasurer. 
Chick Martin "59 

DAYTON-SPRINGFIELD The club's Annual Golf Outing and Steak-Fry will be held on Aug. 27 at the Walnut Grove Country Club. Information concerning tee-olT times and arrangements for the dinner will be sent to club members in the mail. This year's outing will follow the same format that proved to be so successful last year. Nomination and election of club officers for the 1970-71 term will take place at the business meeting following the golf outing dinner. Also on the agenda of this important meeting is a discussion of, and action upon, a proposal to adopt a revised set of by-laws for the club. Copies of the proposed by-laws are being prepared by the By-Laws Revision Committee and will be mailed to the members for their consideration prior to the golf outing and meeting. All members are urged to attend this meeting and express their views concerning these significant issues concerning the club. 
Plans arc also being made for the club's Annual Freshman Send-OfT. Freshman students at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and their parents will be the guests of honor at this funcU'on. It is an­ticipated that the Send-Off will be held in the early part of September and will feature a speaker from ND. Further information will be mailed to members and the guests of honor. 
William H. Seall '68 L 

DECATUR The local Irish were invaded from Springfield (ART SAVOIE '57, DAVE SCHINNEER '67, and JOHN GARVEY 
•67), Areola (TOM '31, PAT '62, and TIM '61 MONOHAN), and Viisinia (AL LANDOLT 'SO) for our annual Golf Outing. JOHN SHIEL presented first- and second-place prizes to Schinneer and Landolt, respectively. JERRY McNA-MARA '61 won the driving contest, weighing in at 272 pounds, but he thinks it's in his hands. 
Steve Graliker '42 

FAIRFIELD COUNTY, CONN. " 'Modesty and unselfishness—these are virtues which men praise—and pass by.' For 59 years—true to the aphorism of Andre Maurois—this distinguished son of ND has lived these virtues and enjoyed a successful career in his profession and in his private life as husband and father. He can no longer, however, elude the ofT-campus ND watchman of Fairfield County. He can no longer be passed by." 
Thus, in part, read the citation honoring JOHN M. WILSON '11, of Rowayton. It was presented by Dennis O'Neill '51, chairman of the board of directors, at the Alumni Club's annual observance of the University's 47th UND Night Dinner-Dance at the Belle Haven Club, Greenwich. Present with the alumni to witness the award were Mr. Wilson's wife, Mary; his son and daughter-in-law. Dr. and Mrs. John M. Wilson Jr.; and his daughter and son-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Carey Tharp of Darien. A second daughter. Sister Mary Stephanie, is at the Ursuline Generalate in Rome. Honored as the ND Club of Fairfield County Man of the Year was Judge JAMES E. MURPHY '22 of Bridgeport for his distinguished career as a jurist and continuing support of the University and its alumni activities. 
PITTSBURGH The ND alumni of Western Pennsylvania gathered in Pittsburgh's WilUam Penn Hotel for UND Night on March 31. The principal speaker was Ara Parseghian, who delighted the crowd with his sundry stories. In addition, Ara made the presentation of the "Man of the Year" award on behalf of the Pittsburgh Club to WILLIAM E. COTTER Jr. '41. Bill was general chairman in a very successful SUMMA Campaign, which was one of the many reasons this transplant from Minnesota was so honored. FRANK CONTE '56, retiring president of the club acted as toastmaster and got in some good digs at the Honorable PETER F. FLAHERTY '5IL, mayor of the City of Pittsburgh. The young mayor got back at Frank in good style, thanks largely to some material given him by the club's next president, JIM SMITH III '53. The invocation and benediction were handled with expertise by our chaplain. Rev. THOMAS M. KIRBY '52. 
Richard P. Jacob 
HAWAII 

The ND Club of Hawaii has been reacti­vated in 1970, with newly elected officers and ilirectors. On May 6 the UND Night Dinner was held at the Tripler Officers' Club. WALTER CABRAL, the newly elected club president, gave a brief speech on the future plans of the club. 
On June 26 an informal meeting and cocktail party were held at the Green TurUe Restaurant. Father JOHN WALSH CSC, currently on leave at the East-West Center at the University of Hawaii, spoke on the challenges currently facing ND. After the meeting, the 1969 ND football highlights film was shown. The newly elected club officers are WALTER CABRAL '55, president; RONALD WONG '53, VP; DENNIS KEATING '62, secretary, and KENNETH KWAK '62, treasurer. The board of directors consists of the above officers and JOSEPH BORGES '52, THOMAS FLYNN '35. ANDREW LUM '56, JOHN McAULIFFE '37 and RICHARD MURATA '57. Currently, there are more than 100 alunuii residing in the 50th state. Members of the ND family who are planning on residing in Hawaii can obtain information concerning the club by writing to the Notre Dame Club of Hawaii, 1319 Kina Street, Kailua. Hawaii 96734. 
Dennis M. Keating °62 
INDL\NAPOLIS 
The officers and directors of the ND Club of Indianapolis met May 

12 at the Essex House. Our president, TOM O'BRIEN, reported on the activities of the Alumni Senate meeting. His discussion was both interesting and informative. We also discussed increasing the amount of money for the annual scholarship fund, because of the increase in cost of tuition at the University. Plans were also made to help the students with their summer tutoring program. Our VP. JOSEPH DESAUTELS, reported that the annual golf tournament is to be held on July 16 at the Country Club of Indianapolis. 
On June 11 we had our annual stag party at Moynahan's Shack. Although attendance was somewhat less than in previous years, those who attended had an excellent time. Once again BILL SAHM did an excellent job of preparing the hamburgers. 
James Crossin 

JERSEY SHORE President BOB GIUNCO "57 is firming plans for the annual Freshman Send-off to be held on Friday, Aug. 28, with JIM GIBBONS as the guest speaker. With the help of DICK CORDASCO '50, 
Bob hopes to hold the affair at the Red Bank Catholic High School as last year. 

In late July, Bob will hold a planning meeting of the officers, board of directors, and prospective project chairmen. Interested members who have not been contacted are encouraged to contact Bob at 223-3864. 
Chariie Keller '54 

LANSING Approximately 60 club members and guests attended the annual summer potluck 
picnic at the home of Dr. JERRY 
CORDES. An added feature this year was 
a program of student-alumni dialogue 
on student strikes. 
Once again we'd like to remind our 
friends of our traditional pre-game dance 
party scheduled for Oct. 2, the eve 
of the ND-MSU game. Plan to stop by 
the Jack Tar Hotel for an evening of 
festivity and friendship! 
Bill Dotterweich '58 
McHENRY COUNTY, ILL. 
The ND aub of McHenry County elected two directors, honored a founder of the club and continued the terms of present officers at the annual UND Night festivities on May 26 in Crystal Lake. GEORGE COSTELLO '40, Crystal Lake realtor, was named "ND Man of the Year" by the club. Costello was presented with an award by last year's winner, Judge WILLIAM M. CARROLL '15. 
Costello, who was a varsity golfer at ND, has been active in community service in Crystal Lake, his native community. He is a charter member of the Jaycees and a founder and past president of the ND Club of McHenry County. He has served nine years on the Crystal Lake Community High School board, two years as its president. He and his w^e, Rita, have seven children; their son, MIKE, graduated from ND in June. Elected directors for three-year terms were JOHN CORRIGAN '35, Crystal Lake, and JAMES KENTON, McHenry. Continuing as officers are JOHN ORSO '50, Crystal Lake, as president; JOHN CORRIGAN '35, Crystal Lake, as VP; JOSEPH CONERTY Jr. '44, Woodstock, assecy.-treas.; and the Rev. Thomas Dempsey, Woodstock, as chaidain. 
DON FREUND '55, chairman for the dinner, said four county high school graduates are among those accepted at ND for the coming year: Pat Niesen, Craig Ludford, Charles Flood and Rick Frett. Special guests included JAMES COONEY, executive secretary, ND Alumni Assn., and JOHN MACHECA, regional director of development for the Notre Dame Foundation. Committee members included Freund, Conerty, Corrigan, Powers, THOMAS PARSLEY '54, CLAIR LAMBERT '43 and THOMAS HARDING '65. 
Joe Conerty '44 
MILWAUKEE 
AU-American MIKE McCOY and the '69 ND football highlights were the main attractions at our May Family Sports Night. Those in attendance were particularly pleased with the question and answer session wherein Mike not only discussed ND and Packer football, but the current campus situation as well. July 22 is the date for the Annual Golf Outing. This year it \n]l be held at the Port Washington Country Club. In addition to the usual festivities, the '70-'71 club oflfcers will be elected. 
Dave Roeraer '69 
NEW ORLEANS 
The ND Club of New Orleans gathered at the Smoke House Restaurant on May 20 to review the highlights of the 1969 football season. After cocktails and 
dinner, the club elected officers for the 
forthcoming year and honored outgoing 
president, J. PATRICK BOOKER, with a 
plaque in appreciation of his leadership. 
New Orleans Alumni elected to office for 
1970-1971 were: F. JOSEPH DROLLA 
Jr., president; LESTER J. BOUDREAUX 
Jr., vice president; LEON J. REYMOND 
Jr., secretary; ROBERT M. JOHNSTON, 
treasurer. 
Future events on the club's calendar include a cocktail party in August to welcome the New Oileans freshmen entering Notre Dame this year and a pilgrimage to South Bend in November to attend the LSU-ND game. 
Leon J. Reymond Jr. 
NEW YORK 
Plans are under way, under the leadership of GORDON FORESTER '47 and TOM CONROY '63, for the Kick-Off Smoker, scheduled for September 16, 1970. Among the luminaries in attendance will be EDWARD W. (MOOSE) KRAUSE. director of athletics, and JOHNNY DEE, head basketball coach. Admission is free to dues-paid members. 
The club recently mailed to all its alumni a report of the proceedings during the recent Alumni Board and Senate meetings. The report, written by club president JIM SLATTERY '50, director GORDON FORESTER '47, and JIM MacDEVITT '35, was designed to keep our New York area alumni fully informed on campus developments. 
Planning for our Navy game trip to Philadelphia, October 31, 1970, is well under way. We will once again provide round trip bus service from various locations in the metropolitan area direct to stadium gates. This is an exciting event, and enjoyed in the past by a great number of our members. Make your plans now! A club mailing on this event (and the Kick-OfI Smoker) will be made in the early fall. Chairman of the trip is STEPHEN W. "BUD" MULVEY '51. 
Many of the members were missed at the gala UND Night at the Garden City Hotel, May 15. After a cocktail hour in the Colonial Room, the party moved to the Regency Room for a sumptuous dinner, dancing and entertainment. Ray Heatherton, of television renown, regaled the guests with song and story. Fr. John E. Walsh CSC represented the University. A job well done by GERRY SAEGERT '40 and DEON SUTTON '31. 
The club will be running two Freshman Send-OfTs this year for incoming fresh­men (expected to total over 100) and their parents with JAMES V. GIBBONS representing Notre Dame. The first will be at the Westchester Country Club on August 25; and the second at the Garden City Hotel on August 26. 
Paul Smith '60 
NORTH FLORIDA 
The ND Club of North Florida held its annual UND Night on Wednesday, May 20. at the Top of the Mayflower Hotel in Jacksonville, Fla. We were delighted to have Alumni Secretary JIM COONEY and TOM SULLIVAN of the Development Office with us for the occasion. The affair was attended by 50 alumni and wives all of whom had a wonderful time. 
The club held its annual picnic in July and b working up plans for the dub 
golf touinament to be bdd later 
in the summer. 
Raphael (Ray) M. Kelly 
NORTHEAST NEW YORK The Northeastern New York ND Cbib hdd a dinner April 10 at the GoUeu Fox Restaurant JOHN F. CAMPBELL -26. was awarded a plaque as "the Man of the Decade." Making the presentation was LAWRENCE T. OT4EIU. "34. Mr. Campbdl is a retired senior VP of the First Trust Company of Albany and continues as a member of its board. He was chairman of the Albany ares SUMMA campaign. As of March, Albany had reached 120.8 per cent of its quota to rank among the nation in exceeding its goaL Campbell was an original meniber of the Albany ND Qub when it was formed in 1929 and has served twice as its presi­dent. He has been vitally interested in ND students over the years and has been responsible in furthering the careen of many in other areas as wdl as in Albany. JAMES D. COONEY. secretary of the Alumni Association, was guest speaker. RICHARD B. CUNNINGHAM. president, presided. 
OHIO VALLEY On May 27, Dr. THOMAS G. WACK. BA '50, MA '53, Ph.D. '61, professor of En^ish at Wheeling College was appointed acting dean for the 1970-71 academic year, replacing Rev. Joseph A. Burke, who accepted a position as dean of St. Joseph's College in Philaddphia. Tom's brother. Dr. JOHN T. WACK, BA '55, MA '57, HLD. '67, is also on the faculty of the Department of History at Wheding College. 
Local alumni were gratified at the conduct of ND students during those trying days this spring. Everyone is sorry that confrontations on other college campuses ended in needless violent deaths. It was our privflege to attend gradmtion exercises at ND this June (our son. ROBERT, received his BS degree). I particularly enjoyed the addresses by JAMES E. ALLEN 70, commissioner of education and JOHN F. CRAWFORD 70, senior class pres. Their expressions did much to narrow the gap between the older and younger generations. Often it is only a conununication gap which prevents them from working together for their common good. However, we wonder how much longer ND can avoid campus troubles when it hosts controversial speakers and organizations under the pretext of academic freedom. Sponsoring such speakers and organizations is often inter­preted by students, faculty and alumni as approval of their ideas and recom­mendations. 
BBl Mitsch '33 
ROCHESTER The Rochester Club celebrated UND Night in April at the University Club of 
Rochester. An excellent turnout listened to JIM COONEY. Alumni Association Secretary, parallel the campus unrest of today with the spirit of Fr. Sorin in the beginnings of Notre Dame. The Rochester Man of the Year award was presented to JOHN CASEY. Congratulations, John, on receiving this coveted honor. JERRY 
CURRAN, outgoing president of the club, 
introduced the new officers for 1970. 
JOHN GLAVIN assumes the post of 
president He will be assisted by 
DICK DELMONTE as VP, MIKE 
WEIDNER, treasurer, and JIM 
McGUIRE, secretary. 
Newly elected members of the Board 

of Directors were LEO WESLEY, JOHN 
CASEY and GERRY SCHOENHERR. 
Jim McGuire '58 
ROME 

We mourn the sudden passing of Msgr. McGrath, Pres. of St. Mary's. We were privileged to assist him here while he was seeking a location for SMC's forthcoming academic program in Rome. Prof. RALPH McINERNEY and famfly wiU soon depart Rome after a research-novel­writing year with us. Buon Viaggio. ND architect seniors have also departed after a year here, but will be replaced by another group in the fall. Doorbell-telephone bell ringers from ND: LARRY and Virginia Wolf DOYLE "39 (SMC '40); VINCE and Mrs. CARNEY "28; JOHN SCHWARTZ '66; LEO and Connie LINBECK Jr. '56 (SMC '59); JOE and Mary HICKEY '50; JOHN and Mrs. ENGLISH '33; JOHN and Mrs. RIDER, 
•30;
 Fr. DAVID MAX '56; ROBERT and Mrs. REAL '48; PAUL HELLMUTH '40, Sec. ND Board of Trustees, with famOy of his deceased brother, ANDREW; parents of JOSEPH HAMMES '68; PAT and Mrs. McMAHON '62; grand­mother of PHIL "71 and GREG '72 CANNATA; parents of the above-men­tioned LINBECKS; PETER and Mrs. DOYLE '63; grandson of CLYDE BROUSSARD '13; son of GERRY DOYLE 

•35;
 daughter of LOU BERARDI '30; parents of FRED '58, BILL '61 THON; ROBERT and Mrs. BYRNE, who is nephew of JOHN NIESON, founder of UND Night; JOSEPH O'KEEFE '44 with wife, SMC '45, and daughter '71, brother, DAVID '72; ANNETTE WEID­HAAS '69 (Angers); daughters-sisters of CHARLES QUINN '34, CHARLES Jr. '61, mother SMC '33, sister '62; parents-in-law of ANTHONY BRUNO '61 L, 


magna cum laude! 

Papal Point: PAUL VI '60 holds pubhc audience each Wednesday forenoon. He gives a public blessing each Sunday at noon. ND HOSPITALITY CENTER, 82 LARGO BRANCACCIO Tel: 730.002. All comers welcome! 
Vince McAloon '34 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY, IND. The St. Joe Valley Club inaugurated honorary memberships with ceremonies at UND Night on Aprfl 21. The first recipient was Julius Tucker, prominent South Bend businessman and long-time friend of Notre Dame. The second honorary membership to Richard Wroblew­ski was presented at dinner following the Blue-Gold football game. Last September's First Annual Golf Outing was a large success, although of modest at­tendance. Rod Johnson will handle arrangements again and as last year, the outing will be for husbands and wives in the evening at John & Pete Redden^s Playland Park course. More on the date later. 
Tlie 1970 officers for the St Joe Valley Club are: BILL KILLILEA, president; DAN O'BRIEN, VP; FRANK (ROD) 
JOHNSON, tieasurer, NORM COOK, 
secretary. 
Norm Cook '57 
ST. LOUIS 

As we start a new club year, we want to 
thank the retired membeis of our board 
of directors: ROBERT J. HELLRUNG '63 
and JOHN R. BOYCE '59 for their 
efforts on behalf of ND and the St Louis 
alumni. Bob is moving to Kansas City and 
we wish him much success in bis new 
job as director of Kansas City's 
Legal Aid Society. 

RONALD J. SZWEDA "61, VP-Activities, has announced the following activities for the coining year: a combina­tion Golf Outing-Freshman Night late in August; a bus trip to the Missouri-ND football game Oct 17, with a buffet dinner party in St Louis after the game; an activity built around the St Louis U.-ND basketball game on Dec. 12; Communion Breakfast St Patrick's Day Parade and party on March 17; and the traditional UND Night next spring. Anyone on our mailing list will receive notices of these activities as the dates and plans firm up. Have you just moved into St Louis? If you will drop us a note at Notre Dame Alumni in St Louis, 7750 aayton Road, St Louis, Mo. 63117. We'll put you on our mailing list Some of the least publicized of our activities are those of our admissions aixl scholarships committees headed by HERMAN L. KREIGSHAUSER '54 and WILLIAM L. OTTEN '62 who spend a great deal of time with prospective students, their parents and hi ^ school counselors. 
You say you've been waiting all these years for the Missouri-ND game, that you've made enou^ friendly, one-drink bets to keep the breweries in town going fidl blast for the next six months, that you were very careful to get your ticket request in the mail in time to be included in the first-day lottery, that you have even started on a little project to rememorize all the words to the Alma Mater and Victory March and then, after all this, you received your check back because yours wasn't one of the requests picked; is that what's troubling you, brother? Well, move over; it happened to me, too! 
Paul J. Gund '63 

SAN DIEGO The ND Club of San Diego held a business-social meeting on June 12. Some 25 grads gathered at the Isiandia Hotel to hear a revealing report on the con­troversial Alumni Senate meeting, presented by DOUG GIMBER. AU present exhibited great interest, with many questions and considerable discussion. President TIM HINCHEY presented the schedule of events for the coming dub year. On June 17, the dub presdent attended the Lincoln Higb School Senior Awards Night Lincoln is a predominantly minority attended high school in the San Diego metropolitan area. It was the president's great pleasure to have the honor of presenting, on behalf of the dub and the University, the ffdiowing awards: 
(1) To wmy J. KfflMume. Jr., a black student a $1,200 ND Adiievement Scholarship Award, renewable eadi year of his undergradiute study, and without repayment obligation. Also, a $1,000 Educational Ojqnrtunity Grant (2) To Francisco Estrada, a $1,000 Educational Opportunity Grant and also a $1,000 unrestricted scholarship grant from the ND Club of SD, made available throu^ the generosity of a club member who has requested he remain anonymous. This was a unique and espedaHy rewarding honor for the club. 
Bruce Lancaster '57 

SAN JOSE UND Night was celebrated on April 8 at the Brave Bull Restaurant. The evening was an unqualified success. A very spirited discussion followed the stimulating ideas presented by the speakers for the evening: Rev. Edgar Whelan, Prof. Donald Kommers of the Government Department and Dennis Clark, the student repre­sentative. The UND Night was also the occasion for the presentation of the club's ND Man of die Year Award. The honor went to DAVE HICKEY '27 for his many years of dedicated service to the University. MAURY DeWALD '62 and DOUG ZILLIOX '62 returned to ND for tiie Alumni Senate meeting in early May. The San Francisco and San Jose clubs had a joint spaghetti dinner on June 12 at the Moreau High School, Hayward. The dinner was followed by the ND foot­ball highh'ghts of 1969. Remember our monthly luncheons on the second Tuesday of each month held at the Howard Johnson Restaurant on North First Street 
Dan Bencze '64 

TULSA The Notre Dame Club of Tulsa held election of officers last month and results are as follows: JACK CHARON, presi­dent; JOHN JOYCE, VP; RAY SIGFRIED II, treasurer; GEORGE K. MILLER, secretary. 
CongratulaU'ons are in order for FARRIS SAFFA, outgoing president, for a most successful and enjoyable two-year term of offKe. A champagne breakfast was held June 28 at the Oaks Country Club in Tulsa. Plans are being made for an October bus trip to Columbia, Mo., for the ND-Missouri football game. 
George K. Miller '58 
UTAH 

UND Night was held April 22 at the 
Ramada Inn, Ogden, Utah. Our guest speaker was MIKE JORDAN, assistant alumni secretary. We wish to thank Mike for his fine presentation and insights of ND life on the campus today. The ND Club of Utah also wants to thank CHUCK BENNETT '55 for the outstanding job he did while president of our club. Due to military obligations. Chuck had to move on. Assuming the duties of president is Dr. JOHN D. SCHIRACK '50. Our next event will be the Annual Student Send-off which will be held in August 
John D. Schirack 'SO 

VIRGINIA The University rowing team paid a visit to Richmond over the Easter holidays to engage the Virginia Conunonwealth team. We are happy to report a dean sweep by the Iri^ in all levels of competition. 
Both teams were feted by our club at the 
Virginia Boat Club on Mayo's Island. 
The VCU team operates out of the 
Virginia Boat Club and the races originated 
on the James River below Mayo's 
Island. A buffet and refreshments were 
provided by the ND Club. 
Freshman send-off will be held sometime in mid-August. This year, Richmond will be sending more than her usual share of new students. The last unofficial count showed six headed for the Golden Dome. ND alumnus SHAUN FITZMAURICE, originally signed by the New York Mets, is now playing outfield for the Richmond Braves of the AAA International League. The Richmond Club is a farm affiliate of AUanta. Qub President FRANK WALLMEYER represented our club at the recent Alumni Meeting at the Uni­versity. His report to the officers and members of the club indicated such meetings were helpful in keeping the alumni apprised of the direction the University is heading. 
Frank Carpin '62 
WESTERN WASmNGTON A very enthusiastic board of directors gathered at the home of JIM LYONS '54 on June 13, 1970, to plan and discuss the business and events of the ND Club of Western Washington. New directors BEN LENOUE '31 and MIKE HERB '58 were on hand with new ideas and enthusiasm. DENNIS RYAN '59 reported a treasury that could stand enrichment; Dennis has a few $5.00 mem­
GRAB SCHOOLS 
BUSINESS The MBA program graduated its second class on June 7 with 40 receiving their Master's degree. The Graduation Dinner was held on June 5 in the Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn following cock­tails on the patio overlooking the golf course. Approximately 135 people attended this dinner which featured the granting of diplomas by PROF. F. W. DOW to the loyal and hard working MBA wives and the announcement of the winners of the two student award plaques. The Outstanding Academic Achievement Award went to RICHARD RUSSELL while the Dean's Award for the student contributing most to the class went to RICHARD JOHNSON. (The latter award was decided by a ballot among students and the instructors of the MBA program.) The evening was topped off with a series of "special" awards to faculty and students alike by the class comedian, AL MAILLOUX. 
All of the members of the faculty were particularly pleased by the announcement of the Woodrow Wilson Foundation of the choice of RICHARD JOHNSON and MIKE STELMACKI as admin­istrative interns. These administrative internships are designed to provide managerial talent to emerging Southern colleges. Nineteen such awards were made to MBA's across the country this spring —7 to Harvard, 5 to Wharton, 2 to Notre Dame, and 1 to 5 other graduate business schools. JIM MILLIKIN of 1519 Miles Avenue, Mishawaka, Ind., has been appointed secretary for the Class of 1970 
bership cards remaining, bis address is 1758 Dexter No., Seattle, Washington 98109. JEFF KOCH '66, chairman of the selection conunittee, reported that 13 new students had been accepted at ND from our area, and that the sdection committee program would contact 325 schotds in Western Washington. Jeff has set the date of Aug. 26, 1970, for the freshman send-off. A 3S-mm slide presentation is being prepared for students interested in ND; club members with slides of interest should forward them to Jeff Koch, 2227 nth Ave., West Seatde 98119, for dui^cation and return. Jim Lyons win serve as chairman of the board of directors and JOHN GAGLIARDINI was nominated and elected to the position of senator succeeding JIM DAILEY '58. A pilot program to bring together classmates of '58 in the Bellevue-Kirkland-Redmond area is being initiated by Jim Dailey (check in with Jim at 885-7116). BOB MORTENSEN '52 and MIKE HERB responded to a ND student request to discuss campus situations and difficul­ties encountered at Notre Dame. TOM MAY '55 reported that SUMMA has been a successful undertaking in the Northwest and the nation and that all participants and leaders should feel satisfied and proud. OLIVER FLOR '60 and DENNY RYAN '59 reported the births of new sons and TOM MAY has a new daughter. Mike Herb is planning a super picnic at one of the Northwest parks in mid-July or eariy August. A separate mailing will follow with specifics; but set aside some time for a lot of fun with a good group. 
whUe JOE CAVATO of 4360 Maryland 
Avenue, St. Louis, Mo., continues as 
secretary for the Class of 1969. Get your 
notes and news to them about your 
activities regularly throughout the year 
so that the MBA program will be well 
represented in the seven issues of the 
ALUMNUS Magazine. 
John R. Malone 
Graduate School of Business 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
CHEMISTRY Dr. E. Martin Fielden from the Institute of Cancer Research, Royal Cancer Hos­pital, Surrey, England, is lecturing on pulse radiolysis during July and August Dr. J. Kerry Thomas, a radiation chemist at Argonne Laboratory, has been appointed professor of physical chemistry effective in September. Dr. Walter L. Hahn from the Benger Research Laboratory, Du Pont, will be a visiting associate research professor in chemistry during the fall semester. Dr. Arye Weinreb, Hebrew University, Jerusalem, will be a NSF senior foreign scientist in the Radiation Labora­tory during the '70-'71 academic year. 
Among the eighteen who received the Ph.D. in chemistry at the June conmience­ment were CATHY MICHUDA KOZAK. biochemistry division. South Bend Medical Foundation; TOM MAGEE, who tau^t at St. Joseph College in Philadelphia this past year; and ROGER SCHNEGGEN­BURGHR, with Dow Chemical in Midland, Mich. Those who recently completed the reqiurements for the Pfa.D. include MICHAEL HOARE, postdoctoring at 
Tbe dub would Uke to wdcone the foDowiBf ahnmii to the area: PE'lUt 
aaxmoR, ICDH-BSCE •5$: xjsera 
HAAGA BS '40; ROBERT URSO AB 
'64, MA '66: DONALD DEDA BA 'W^ 
MA '67; ED McCRIMMON FUFC '3»: 
and SISTER ERNSDORFF AB -S?. 
MA '58 to Our Ladr of Louidea Sdioai 
in Vancouver and Rev. GHHtCE M(N«IS 
MA '69 to Seatde U. 
John Gagfiardini Jr. 
YOUNGSnOWN-WARREN ^ YoungstowB-Warren afaumii are back in the swinf again with a new set of oiEcen and a mudi-looked-forward-to golf outing on Aug. 13. (Friday the I3th falls on Thiusday that month.) Atty. ROBERT DINEEN is our new feariess leader with PHILIP PROSSER as VP. WILLIAM W. CUSHWA secretary, and Dr. VONALD R. GRANETO. keeper of the purse. 
The golf ootmg will be at Avalon Lakes, a new spa renowned for its water holes and watering bole. EUGENE J. GASE of Continental Baking Co. in Youngstown is chairman. The 47th annual UND Nitft was a bighG^t of the spring. Kemedi Featberstone, associate professor of architecture, joined Rick Leibowitz, senior English major, and the Rev. Tom Bfauitz '57, university archivist, in a discussion of "What is happening at Notre Dame in 1970?" Times have changwf since we've been there, but then again, so have we. 
BiU Cushwa '59 
Gudph U. in Ontario, Canada; PAUL RIVERS, ReiDy Tar and Chemical Co., Indianapolis; and ELSIE SCHRAWDER. Miles Laboratories, Elkhart. May lecturers in the Radiation Laboratory induded FRANK HUDSON '54, Sandia Corp., Albuquerque, N.M., and JUAN YGUERABIDE '62, now with the de­partment of molecular biophysics and biochemistry, Yale U. Among the visitors to the campus this spring were DAVE BALLANTINE '52, with the Division of Isotopes Development, AEC, in Washington. D.C., and Sr. HELEN JOSEPH COERVER '52, vriio teaches chemistry at Fontbotme College in St Louis. Dave lives in Frederick. Md.; his'oldest son is a sophomore at ND. JAY YOUNG '50 has been appointed a ixofessor of chemistry at Auburn U. in Alabama. 
Bro. Columba Curran CSC DepL of ChemistTy Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
ENGLISH With June graduation our alunmi were increased by lune. Doctorates were awarded Sr. EILEEN AIXISON (Mj\. '66), Sr. EVA MARY COX, EDWARD J. GALLAGHER. PAUL H. JOHNSON, KENNETH D. SMITH, and ROBERT C. WESS. There were abo three master's candidates: STEPHEN J. DREHER. ELLEN M. MOORE, and Mrs. CYNTHIA 
D. MURRAY. Graduates on campus win be deputing for jobs far and near. Sr. Efleen has already returned to Canada to teadi summer sdnoL Sr. EVA MARY win be leaching American literature Comparative Literature Assoc, meeting in Bordeaux and the International Society 
South of the border 
for 18th-century Studies in Nancy. In 

When two scientists from ND's Biology Department headed in the general direction of Acapulco last winter, they were seeking more than sun and surf. And they found what they were looking for—amphibians— in the forests of Cerra Teotepec, a snow-covered peak northwest of the popular resort. 
The two men are Kraig Adier, ND 
biology professor, and David Snyder, 
a graduate biology student. A third 
biologist, from Ohio State U., 
also made the trip. 

They packed their gear and supplies 
into the Biology Department van 
and drove for six days to reach San 
Luis Potosi, Mexico. There they 

explored a cave that Adler had visited 
in 1964 when he was a graduate 
student at the U. of Michigan. 

Inside the cave they found a pecu­liar species of salamander almost half a foot long. Its webbed feet enabled it to walk across the ceiling. These "twilight zone" salamanders were so numerous that it took the trio only three hours to collect all the specimens needed. 
From there the scientists ventured 
on to Guerro, Mexico, where paved 

roads and modem society end. Ahead 
lay thick uninhabited forests visited 
mostly by Mexican bandits and 
crawling with tarantulas and 
poisonous snakes. 

All three carried pistols for protec­tion. When they bedded down for the night, one would sleep in the van and the others in sleeping bags out in the woods so that their guns would not be in the same place if they were attacked. 
Although only 60 miles from sunny Acapulco, they were more than 10,000 feet above sea level and the temperature hovered at the freezing mark during the night. They felt, however, that what they discovered was well worth all the discomfort. 
They were the first to biologically explore the Cerro Teotepec. It took them five days and 25 gallons of gasoline to go 6S rugged miles up into the mountain range. 
Since they arrived in the dry season, the amphibians they were looking for could be found only in streams and in clusters of plants called bromeliads that grew in the trees. During the day the three climbed trees and cut down the bromeliads with machetes and then searched the moist center of the plants for the amphibians. At night the amphibians 

Up a tree in Cerra Teotepec 

would come down from the trees and crawl toward the streams. The trio was ready and waiting in the dark to collect these also. Once they captured the creatures they administered an anesthetic and put the specimens in a preservative to be studied upon return to the campus. 
The party also brought back 600 frogs, snakes, butterflies and insects. After studying and X-ra]ing them it was found that several new species of amphibians had been discovered. 
Upon further study it was con­cluded that these new species are related to animals that inhabit the far side of another mountain range around Pueblo and Veracruz rather than the nearby range of Oaxaca. This is very interesting to specialists of animal distribution since it sug­gests a rather unusual feature in the history of animal life in Mexico. Now zoogeographers must find how these amphibians got there. 
As a result of their trip the three plan to publish papers on the various aspects of their discoveries. They also have suggested that such a trip be made an annua! event to give students a new perspective on areas un­familiar to them. 
June JOSEPH MILLICHAP M.A. '62, visited the campus to "defend" his dissertation for August graduation. Part of his study of Carson McCuUers has been accepted for publication, and he has also placed articles on Thoreau and Mark Twain in journals, as well as a short story. In October he will read a paper on Chaucer at the Rocky Mountain MLA meeting in Sun Valley. He is currently on the faculty at the U. of Montana. Promotions in the department this spring were—to the rank of professor: Robert 
J. Lordi; and to the rank of associate professor: Thomas Jemielity, Donald Sniegowski and A. L. Soens. In May, Professor Leon Edel, eminent scholar and biographer, delivered a lecture on Thoreau. 
Congratulations to our new alumni and best wishes for the summer to all of you. 
Robert M. Slabey 
English Department 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6 

HISTORY At June Commencement Ph.D.'s in history were awarded to Sr. DOROTHY ANN KELLY; Sr. LONAN REILLY; FRANK ORLANDO, now at Loyola in Baltimore; PHILIP GALLAGHER, now at Brooklyn CoUege; and DAVID GARIBALDI, who plans to return to England. Capt. JUAN FLOREZ, now an Air Force chaplain in Vietnam, writes that he has been spend­ing some of his spare time there teaching a Western Civilization course to pilots who have managed to evade enemy bullets and still preserve an interest in study. Fr. Juan hopes to be back in the USA by the time football season begins. Prof. VINCENT DE SANTIS, chairman of the History Department, received a Distin­guished Alumnus award this spring from his alma mater. West Chester State College of Pennsylvania. Duke University Press has published a book by Prof. LEON BERNARD—The Emerging City: Paris in the Age of Louis XIV ($10.). Prof. BOLESLAW SZCZESNIAK was stricken with a heart attack early in May. Though he was in the hospital for some six weeks his many friends and former students will be happy to know that he is now well on his way to a full recovery. He had been scheduled to take a leave of absence in the fall semester in any case. He now expects to return to teaching in January, 1971. The department will add one new man to our staff in the fall, EDWARD MENARD, presently nearing completion of his Ph.D. at Rice University. He will offer courses in U.S. Constitutional History, an area left open for some years since DEVERE PLUNKETT became asso­ciate dean. 
Early in June, I spent some pleasant days in Dubuque visiting JIM WHITE and fanuly, and RICHARD PANTEL, both of Loras CoUege; and in Milwaukee with RALPH WEBER and family (Marquette). Ralph had just returned from three weeks of research in Mexico City. CHARLES POINSATTE and ANTHONY BLACK of St. Mary's spent a week at Princeton in June grading Advanced Placement Tests. They pronounced the food splendid even if the examinations were not always so. AH history alumni should be proud of the departmental Softball team which chalked up a 6-2 
at St. Mary's CoUege, ND, in the faU. 
Dr. Gallagher is at Lehigh U., Bethlehem, 
Pa.; Dr. Johnson at Old Dominion U., 
Norfolk, Va.; and Dr. Wess is teaching at 
Ohio Dominican College in Columbus. 
In September Dr. Smith will join the 
faculty at the Catholic U. of Puerto Rico. 
At the end of the spring semester. Prof. ANDREW SMITHBERGER M.A. "27, after 45 years at ND, was promoted to Professor Emeritus. While his many former students would want to wish him a serene and happy retirement, it appears that Prof. Smithberger has very "active" plans indeed. This summer he is acting head of the department, while Prof. Robinson is in California, and director of the summer session. During the next academic year he will teach a course and continue as assistant chairman. Besides many years of distinguished teaching and administration, he has been managing editor of The American Journal of Jurisprudence and was active in the Indiana CoUege English Assoc., having served as president. 
Two local alumnae have departed for summers in Europe. Sr. VICTORIA MARIE FORDE M.A. '69, who has received an international study grant, will spend the summer in London, studying modern British literature. In September she will continue her doctoral studies at ND. Sr. M. FRANZITA KANE CSC Ph.D. '58, professor at St. Mary's College, will do scholarly research in England, Portugal, France and Italy. In addition she has been invited to participate in the International record in an abbreviated spring league. Especially remarkable was the manner in which these stirring victories were scored: in every case but one our intrepid warriors came from behind with a last-inning rally. Many personal honors were gained. LESLIE RUDNYANZKY was named Manager of the Year. Your correspondent received the Dick Stuart Iron Glove award for imaginative play in the vicinity of first base. At present, unhappily, the twin scourges of job-hunting and signing by major league teams have so depleted our ranks that it appears unlikely that we will be able to field a team this summer. 
Bernard Norling Department of History Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 
LAW SCHOOL The ND summer session at Faculty of Laws, University College, University of London commenced on June 29, 1970, with approximately 93 enrollees for the six-week course. Professor Emeritus ROGER 
P. PETERS was honored at graduation as the Law School's candidate for an honorary Doctor of Laws. Seventy-nine graduates received their J.D. degree at graduation. FRANCIS X. WRIGHT of Maryland was the only honors graduate and received the Dean Joseph O'Meara and Hoynes awards. Other prizes and recipients were: The Farabaugh Prize for high scholarship—THOMAS DeLUCA of Pennsylvania; The Law Week Award for scholastic progress—RICHARD JORDAN of Illinois; Lawyers TlUe Award for excellence in real property law— Thomas DeLuca; Weber Moot Court Award for first and second place in the annual moot court competition to ROBERT LaRUSSO of New York, and ROBERT QUINLAN of Wisconsin, respectively; The Weber Senior Research 
paper award to STEPHAN DeSALES 
of California and JOmi L'ESTRANGE 
of California, joindy; Trial Lawyer's 
Plaque for moot court to LaRusso; First 
National Bank of Chicago Estate-Planning 
prize to RUDOLF CERBER of Indiana; 
Prentice-Hall Award for excellence in 
federal taxation to GERALD EAGAN 
of Connecticut. 
Most of the graduates have already been 
placed in their first position according 
to the following profile: Private practice, 
35; government agencies, 7; judicial 
clerkships, 5; graduate study, 4; legal aid 
and poverty law, 1; corporations, 2; 
military, 16; information not available, 9. 
Father Bill Lewers CSC, professor of law at the Law School, was just elected by the Holy Cross Province to the Indiana Provincial Council. Fatiier Bill will be teaching torts in the absence of Professor Frank Booker, who is leaving ND to enter private practice in Palm Beach, Florida. Professor Ed Murphy has com­pleted a new casebook. Studies in Contract Law, Foundation Press, with Professor Richard Spiedel of Virginia Law School. Prof. Bud Murdock is writing a treatise on the Illinois Business Corporation Act Prof. Tom Shaffer, who wOI be at UCLA Law School next year, is completing work on his book. The Psychology of Testa­tion, to be published by University Press of Cambridge. Tom also reviewed Andrew Watson's Psychiatry for Lawyers in the winter issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer. Asst. Dean Les Foschio reviewed Davis' Discretionary Justice in Lawyer's spring issue. Prof. Godfrey Henry addressed the Chicago alumni on legal education for minority students. Prof. Henry is currendy teaching at the Wayne State Law School Midwest Summer Institute of the Council on Legal Education Opportunity. Prof. Bob Rodes will replace Prof. Conrad KeUenberg as supervisor of the London program beginning in September. Prof. KeUenberg is returning to ND to teach in the fields of property law and famUy law and to direct the Law School's clinical pro­grams. The "Chief is a grandfather! Prof. Jack Broderick's daughter, Mary Louise, presented a grandson, Sean David Kennedy, last month in Nashville, Tennessee. 
J. ROBERT GEIMAN L'56, was reelected secretary of the Illinois State Bar Association. The Law School's classrooms are being repainted and a new catalogue printed. 
Leslie G. Foschio Law School Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
PHYSICS According to the June Conmiencenient Exercises BuUetin, the ranks of our Physics Ph.D. alumni have been increased by 11 new members, making our ofiSdal "head count" 156 as of this dale. The latest additions are MICHAEL J. AMO­RUSO (theoretical physics), WILLIAM 
C. DAMERT (tiieoretical physics), KENNARD M. DAVIES (theoretical physics), BRIAN J. DEERY (dementaiy particle physics), ALEXANDER R. DZIERBA (elementary particle physics), RONALD J. FOUST (nuclear physics), MICHAEL J. HONES (dementaiy particle physics), JOSEPH T. McGAHAN (elementary partide physics), JAMES M. PIOWATY (nuclear physics), DENNIS F. 
POLIS (theoretical physics), and UDO 
W. POOCH (theoretical physics). All finished this past year, and all secnred employmenL Mike Amomso went to Rock Island Arsenal, ffin Damert to ViUanova U., Mike Davies to Cieialiton U., Brian Deery to Nijmegen, Hdbnd, as a Postdoctoral Research A^odate, Alex Dzierba to California Institute of Tech­nology as a Postdoctoral Research FeDow, Ron Foust to St. Mary's College (Notre Dame), Mtte Hones to ViUanova. Joe McGahan to Research Corporation (Washington, D.C.), Jim Piowaty to DePauI U., Dennis PoUs to Lockheed (Buibank, California) and Udo Pooch to Texas A. A M. 
And now having brought you up to date on the new additions to your ranks, and also on the emidoyment picture, back again to the main business of this column, namdy, names, addresses, and activities of a few more of our older PhJ>. alumni. 
MICHAEL F. SHEA '60 (nudear physics), wife Sherrol, and four chUdren. Tom, Kathryn, Marie, and Don. live at 4512 ComeU Ave., Downers Grove, 111. 60515. Mike joined the Midwestern Universities Research Lab (MURA) as a physicist, after completing requirements for his Ph.D. at Notre Dame. He left MURA in 1964 to accept a position as a Research Sdentist at Lockheed Palo Alto Research Lab. In 1967 Mikereturned to the Midwest, to Argonne National Lab, where he currently holds the position of associate physicist. RICHARD L. WALTER '60 (nudear physics), wife Carol, and two chUdren, Tiinothy and Susan, live at 1614 Woodbum Rd.. Durham, 
N.C. 27705. After finishing work for his Ph.D. at Notre Dsune, Dick accepted a position as a postdoctoral research associate at the U. of Wisconsin in December of 1959. From Sept 1961, to Aug. 1962, he hdd the rank of instructor in physics at W/isconsin. In Sept. 1962, Dick joined the faculty of the Department of Hiysics at Duke U.. where he now holds the rank of associate professor. MEYER SILVER '60 (physical electronics), wife Vivian, and three chUdren, Robin, Barbara, and Boimie, live at 5762 Ravenspur Dr., Palos Verdes. Calif. 90274. I should add that the address is as of my last report from Meyer (April 1968). After leaving Notre Dame, Meyer served from 1960 to 1962 as a research physicist in die SoUd Sute Branch of the Naval Ordnance Test Sution at China Lake, Calif. From 1962 to 1967, he was a member of the technical staff (research physicist) of TRW Sys­tems, Inc., in Redondo Beach, Calif. In 1967 he left TRW to join Aerospace . Corporation, El Segundo, Calif., as a research physicist and member of the technical staff. 
The editor says that's aU for this tinge. 
Robert L. Anthony Department of Physics Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
SOCtOLOGY AND 
AsnaoraioGir 
The Summer Session is better than ever. At least we like to think that's the case. The courses, each taught by a full-time staff member, have never been more varied; the proportion of students from the regular academic year remains high: and the program is more integrated with the program for the fall and spring semesters. And yet enrollment has tailed off, mainly, it seems, because of the decreasing number of applicants from religious communities. It would help to have more qualified students interested in summer graduate work referred to us by our loyal degree-holders out there. Next year the department might provide summer institutes in one or more specialized areas. 
Promotions in rank were bestowed upon two members of the staff at the annual President's Dinner. Dr. Richard A. Kurtz was made a full professor, while Dr. Irwin Press achieved an associate pro­fessorship and tenure. Professor Kuru and family recently departed for London where they will spend the summer prior to his assumption of a one-year 
ON RECORD 

ENGAGEMENTS Miss Celia Suzanne White to LEONARD 
L. MORETTI JR. "69. 

Miss Jociel Anne Ganser to THEODORE J. NOWACKI '69. 
MARRIAGES Miss Kathleen Mortissey to PAUL SANNER '62, May 23. Miss Nancy Ann Nazak to STEPHEN WILLIAM JONES '63, May 3. Miss Sharon Ann Gagnon to THOMAS GERARD SCHATZ '67, June 12. Miss Kathleen Kerin Pastore to HUBERT JOHN MILLER '69, June 13. 
Miss Laura Elizabeth Vanderbilt, St. Mary's "70, to DAVID CUENOD ERNST '70, June 13. 
BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS MAY '55, a daughter, Suzanne Kathleen, Oct. 23, 1969. 
Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL R. EIBEN '56 (Arch. '66), a daughter, Jennifer Mary, May 21. 

Mr. and Mrs. KENNETH P. WINKLER '56, a son, Thomas Joseph, June 16. Mr. and Mrs. DENNIS RYAN '59, a son, Dennis Patrick, Jan. 13. Mr. and Mrs. OLIVER FLOR '60, a son, Peter Steven, Aug. 14, 1969. 
Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL CONNOR '60, '62L, a son, Marcus Benjamin, May 20. 

Mr. and Mrs. RAYMOND RAEDY '62, a son, Steven Monroe, Jan. 28. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD DYNIEWICZ '62, a daughter, Laura Aim, May 14. Mr. and Mrs. MARK DYNIEWICZ '65, a daughter, Jenifer Christine, May 21. 
PAUL J. DeMEO '65 (B.S.C.E. '67) and MARYBETH DUBUQUE DeMEO (MA '68), a daughter, Katherine Ellen, April 28. 
SYMPATHY CHARLES F. (CHILE) WALSH '28 on the death of his wife, May 17, 1969. 
visiting professorship at the University 
of Kenya. Dr. Press and his fanuly 
entourage just returned from a year 
in Spain. 

The staff's itinerancy has not been restricted to Kurtz and Press. Dr. Kane is off to Ireland for another dose look at the "troubles"; Dr. Weigert and spouse will do summer research in Germany: Dr. DaSilva is already in Paris; and Dr. Lamanna will spend most of July at an Institute in Urban Studies at Ohio State. 
We hear, belatedly, that Rev. ROBERT 
H. BROOKS, O.PRAEM. (Ph.D.) has been on leave from the departmental chairmanship at SL Noibert's for a year of postdoctoral work at the U. of Chicago. AL JAVUREK (MJ^.), according to the grapevine, is headed for what is 
HARRY W. DRAVES '30 and EDWARD 
F. '31, on the death of their mother. May 18. 
THEODORE P. FRERICKS '39 and ALFRED '41 on the death of their father. May 17. 
FRANK E. MILLER JR. '45 on the death of his wife, April 30. JOHN J. McSHANE '48 on the death of his mother. PAUL O. SCHIRMEYER '48 on the death of his son. May 24. 
A. A^ SOMMER JR. '48 on tile deatii of his father. May 7. 
DEATHS 

MARTIN J. BRENNAN '13, June 2. He is survived by four sons, TERRY '50, former Notre Dame football coach; James B., Joseph K., and Rev. William Breiman and by two dau^teis. 
JOHN J. FALKENBERG '19, Apiil 7. He is survived by his widow, 831 St. Paul SL, Denver, Colo. 80206. 
T. PIERRE CHAMPION "22, May 31. He is survived by three sons, DAVID 
J. '45, WILLIAM M. '61, and T. PIERRE Jr. '60; a daughter, Mrs. Patiida Matia; his widow, 134IS Shaker Blvd., Oeveland, O., and a sister. 
Dr. CHARLES T. MORAN '23, April 18. He is survived by his widow, 2524 Saratoga Dr., LouisvOle, Ky. 40205. 
THOMAS W. BARBER '24, May 30. He is survived by two brothers, JOSEPH C. '36, 4417 Cheny SL, Erie, Pa., 16509 and ROBERT A. '40, 418 Sanfoid, Erie, Pa., 16511. 
CHARLES L. BAUMGARTNER '25, May 17. He is survived by his widow, 1155 E. Donald SL, South Bend; five sons, FRED '51, JAMES '59, Charles L. Jr., Richard N., and John T.; three daughters, Mrs. Mark K. Skibbe, Sister Mary Aim, CSJ, and Sister M. Veronica, CSJ; a brother and a sister. 
EDWARD F. KOHL '25. He is survived by his widow, 16920 Edgewaier Dr., Lakewood, O.; and a son PAUL E. '63. 
THOMAS H. MOYLAN '25. Jan. 30. He is survived by his family, 914 Lake, Fort Wayne, Ind. 46805. 
JAMES G. WING "27. June, 1970. He is survived by his widow, 414 Ashland Av e Evanston, ID.; three sons, James Jr., Robert and Richard; a dau^ter, Patricia, and 17 gianddiildiieiL 
PEARL L. MOORE '28, May 29. He is survived by his widow, 246 W. Central SL, Wharton, NJ. 
reputedly the most beautiful of all American campuses, that of the U. of California, Santa Cruz. When he's not publishing works of anthropological erudition, LEO DESPRES (MJ\. ) chairs the prestigious Department of Anthropology at Case-Western Reserve U. JIM McKENNA, presenUy at Villanova, is putting the finishing touches to an extensive study on criminal typologies. Finally, for those who have not already gotten the word from Mrs. Lawrence, MARY JEANNE (M.A. 70) and ROBERT H. VASOLI (Ph.D. '63) are expecting on or about Halloween. 
Robert H. Vasoli Department of Sociology and Anthropology Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 
HILMER E. HEUER '29, Feb. 19. He is survived by his sisters, Marie and Leone 
A. Heuer, 6422 N. Magnolia, Chicago, 111., 60626. 
FRANCIS G. DUNN '30, June 13. He is survived by three sisters, Dorothy M. Dium, 235 Adams St., Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201, RuUi McGowan and Miriam McLaughlin, and a brother, Andrew. 
TIMOTHY KENT HINCHEY '30, April 9. He is survived by his widow, 8112 Soutii Marshfield, Chicago, 111., 60620. 
JOSEPH B. REEDY '30, June, 1964. He is survived by his widow, 5407 Aberdeen Rd., Fairway, Shawnee, Kan. 66205. 
ARTHUR HIMBERT '32, May 17. He is survived by his mother. Mis. George Himbert; daughter, Mis. Wilbur Rourk Jr.; brothers Alfred and Walter and three grandchildren. 
PHILIP J. RYAN '33, March 8. He is survived by his family, 4555 Van Nooid Ave North Hollywood, Calif. 91604. 
ROBERT L. FORBES JR., '35, in December, 1969. He is survived by his fanuly, P.O. Box 878, Hato Rey, Puerto Rico, 00919. 
MARTIN A. HENDELE '35, in 1969. He is survived by his family. Old Elm Rd., Hawthorne Hills, JoUet, 111., 60433. 
WILLIAM H. SCHRODER '35, May 25. He is survived by his widow, 2628 Habersham Rd., Adanta, Ga., sons, William Heniy Jr., John Timothy and daughters, Mrs. Mary S. Baker and Belle. 
JOHN J. SULLIVAN '41, in April. He is survived by his family, 31 Anderson Rd., Greenwich, Conn., 06830. 
JOSEPH J. ORSI JR., '49, Dec. 1%9. He is survived by his widow, 23 Bennett SL, Taunton, Mass. 02780. 
EVERARD E. HATCH '56, in a plane crash, March 9. He is survived by his widow and three children, Elizabeth, Everard III, and Nan Edith, his parents Edward Hatch and Mrs. Nan Hatch. 
JOHN C. KIEFER '60, April 17. He is survived by his widow, 10364 Ashburn Rd., Richmond, Va., 24235. 
PAUL R. BERNARD '66, May. He is survived by his widow, 1109 West Ashe Ave., FuUerton, Calif. 92631 and his father, ROBERT F. BERNARD '37. 
LT. ROBERT K. RYAN '66, May 4. He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mis. Robert K. Ryan Sr., 25 Talcott Rd., Utica, N.Y. 13502. 
NOEL ALFRED DUBE 70, 4 Founh SL, Rollingsford, N.H. 03869, June 24. 
ALtlMNM ASK 
lADICAllAG ND ALUMNUS is now a negative, pseudo-intellectual, and radical rag. 
Eric Hoffer says it's easy to "problem state" but very diflScult to "problem-solve." Please minimize your lengthy "problem-stating" articles and let us hear tmm some of the creative and constructive men in science, business, engineering and religion at Notre Dame. Give the social "scientists" and "engineers" a much needed rest. They have been over-achieving. 
John Finn Jr. '59 5933 W. Slauson Culver City, Calif. 90230 
NOT AHAID TO USTEN 
I am a member of the class of 1928. Regularly I read the ALUMNUS including the letters from alumni concerning the present state of the University. I thought my classmate, Lou Buckley wrote a splendid letter recently in which he expressed satisfaction with present-day ND. 
Why is it that the opposition (at least as shown by the letters I read) seems to come from those who were graduated in the 1940's and 1950's? Obviously they refuse to try to seek out and understand the real questions that are being raised by students today. They don't want to listen. 
Certainly I do not condone student violence or the disruption of the University community. Nor do I think immoral speech and action is a proper exercise of freedom. But what I am interested in and concerned about is the indifference that older grads show in casting aside and refusing to listen, to and anlyze and dig into intellectu­ally the fundamental questions which the great majority of students are raising and are deeply concerned about and want to discuss. 
Sure, we don't think that in order to show concern and to desire action, the student needs to have long hair, beards, beads and all that, but why dismiss what they are trying to say just because we think they ought to look 
like we did years ago (heaven 
forbid). 
A lot of the older grads are apparently afraid to listen because they might have to admit that the whole structure under which they grew up has some serious defects that need drastic remedies. This fear and indifference are wrcMig and we had better start listening and thinking and doing with youth. 
I think Notre Dame is listening and is trying to lead and work with the students in a serious way, and while everything isn't one-hundred percent satisfactory on campus, I think Father Hesburgh, the Holy Cross Fathers, the administrative staff and the faculty are doing a great job. They deserve our support, because they are thoughtful, intelligent and dedicated to our University. 
Michael T. Ricks "28 902 Central St. Lafayette, Ind. 47905 
20 YEAKS lATER 
At the recent reunion of the Class of 1950,1 was pleasantly surprised to find so many of my classmates in agreement on subjects concerning student life today at ND. Many asked me, as their president, to formulate a resolution to submit through the proper channels, con­veying their feelings on these matters. Before doing that in any formal form, the following is my summary of their sentiments, upon which I solicit comment: 
Those at the reunion felt that the students on campus during the May "Cambodian upset" should be congratulated for their handling of the situation (prayers, Masses and non-violence). Those same alumni also felt, however, that the day-to^y non-academic activities of the students should be more regulated and would urge the administration to revive a few of the older regulations (that we didn't like either, but worked well for us and kept us out of trouble in the main while there and since), having the aim of an uninterrupted basic Christian education, embuement of Christian values, with fulb, hope and charity, the moral virtnes, and Mass being stressed, in cider to lune the opportunity to get into or ke ^ Hit habit of leading a Christian life, amd minimizing the distracting harms vbich lead one astray, while at the same time allowing the greatest freedom within diese concepts, all permitting a sane balance wMIc experiencing upsets and turtmlenoes (claimed by present students to be unique to than) because of our basic ship's rudder of God, country and Notre Dame. 
As we know, many despair in life because of no hope here and no belief in a hereafter. We have an edge on non-believers and if such is not taught and stressed at ND, then its vahie and leadership are no better than at any other university. What is the use of stating and re-stating the principles and posing the pioblenis of college (and hi ^ schotri) students as tofrustration, tensirai, t^set and turmoil, if these are not im^emented by a life-style on and off campus we know has woriced in our life but which the administrators say does not woric for the present generation, yet have not tried on the present gener­ation. Certainly human nature has not changed and Christ's trachingr have not changed. Why be so irishy­washy? We are willing to i applicants for ND who and irtiose^ parents are willing to fcrilow the rules and regulations. End of summary of 20th-reunion class of 1950 fedings. Any comments? --^ 
John W. Thornton '50 4400 Monseirat Street Coral Gablees, Fla. 33146 
HESS USiktU 
I write as a member of the class <tf '45 (47 Law). I like the layout ci Notre Dame ALUMNUS. I have been excited and thrilled as I read die magazine. It sounds like ND is really keeping "pace" with the times. 
Bless you all. 

Bob S. Stewart '45 
1360 West Main Decatur, III. 62522 







