The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
U.N. D. 
Nieht April 25 
Sacred Heart Church In the Snow 
rol. 16 February. T938 No. 4 


'Gee, Mom, Were They All Poor People?' 
"Not exactly poor, Bobby. They had money. But they didn't have all the nice things that we have—such as a radio, and electric lights, and a vacuum cleaner. You see, they didn't have electricity, or automobiles, or airplanes. Most of those things hadn't even been invented." 
E
VEN as late as 1900, only one American factured products which were unheard of in home in ever}"- seven had a bathtub; one 1900 but are now plentiful and sell at a fraction in 13 had a telephone; one home in 30 had of their former cost. electric lights. There were only 8000 automo­
General Electric scientists and engineers, by biles. Manufactured products were scarce and 
applying electrical methods to the tasks of in­expensive. 
dustry, have helped to provide us with the 
Today there are 20 million bathtubs, 18 million many products that contribute to our comfort telephones, 22 million wired homes, 25 mil­and convenience, and to the hundreds of ser\'­lion automobiles, and millions of other manu­ices which we enjoy today. 
G-E research aud etigineering have saved the public from ten to one hundred dollars for every dollar they have earned for General Electric 

GENERAL # ELECTRIC 
^^SP' 90-21DH Listen to the G-E radio program, with Phil Spitainy and his all-girl orchestra, Mondays, 9:30 P.M., EST, NBC Red Network 
•^ «—S^a. 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E . ARMSTHONC, *25 The macazine is published from October to June inclusive by the Alumni Assodation Member of the American of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Darae, Indiana. Ihe sulracription price is $2.00 
Editor Alumni Council. 
a year; the price of single copies ts 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of S5.00 include WILLIAM R . DOOLEY, 76 a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, Member of Nat'l. CalKcIic Managing Editor 1923. at the post office at Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Alumni Federation 
Vol 16 FEBRUARY, 1938 No. 4 
Brilliant Addresses Key Football Banquet 
Able Speakers Pay Tribute to Notre Dame and 1937 Team at Annual Highlight AfFair Arranged by St. Joe Valley Club 
The eighteenth civic testimonial pliment to the football team and the football banquet to the Notre Dame coaches and to Notre Dame, laying team of 1937 and its coaches, spon­particular stress on the faculty, which sored by the Notre Dame club of the he said must exist to produce such St. Joseph Valley, held in the Uni­versity Dining Halls on the evening of Monday, January 11, carried out the growing, glowing traditions of this annual highlight. 
Keyed by two excellent serious ad­dresses, by Rev. Robert White, dean of the college of law of Catholic Uni­versity, and John T. McGovern, legal advisor of the Carnegie Foundation, the speaking program was admir­ably adapted to the occasion. 
Father White's brilliant discourse stressed the theme of America's need for the spirit of Notre Dame. The fundamental strength of the Notre Dame program, exemplified on- the athletic field, and the power of this example among the young people of this country, were brought out. 
Mr. McGovern paid glowing com­
Among the speakers at the Football Banquet! hi the top picture, left to right, are. Bo McMillin, Rev. J. H. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '10, and Captain Gar Davidson; In the bottom picture are John T. McGovern, Rev. J. F. O'Hara, C.S.C., '11, Mai Elivard, '10, and Warren Brown. 
results, yet which is so often over­looked in the analysis of an institu­tion. Striking in the address was the opinion that honest aid, rendered by 
alumni to deserving students who wish to attend Notre Dame, even if they possess athletic ability, is within the bounds of academic respectability and to be encouraged. Mr. McGovern generalized this point to include all alumni of all the colleges and univer­sities, stressing the need for curbing the evils of outright hire of athletes, and the diversion of athletes from the institution or the courses of study v.-hich they naturally prefer. 
A galaxy of coaches, headed by Captain Garrison Davidson, retiring coach of the Army, paid tribute to the fine job done by Elmer Layden and his boys. Mai Elward, acting Purdue coach, gave an excellent talk and paid tribute to another Notre Dame man. Noble Kizer, whom ill­ness forced into inactivity. 
A. N. "Bo" McMiUin, Indiana coach, and Jimmy Conzelman, coach of Washington U., St. Louis, both as much at home with a fillet mignon as a trick oifense, supplied a sparkle to the program which only exceeded by a reasonable margin the general at­tractiveness of a program interwoven with the keenness of Warren Brown, Chicago Herald-Examiner sports edi­tor, toastmaster. 
Other speakers included Mayor George Freyemiuth, South Bend, ex­pressing the civic congratulations to Elmer and the squad; Louis Chap­leau, president of the Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley, who repeated the club's praises for the season's performance; Rev. Hugh J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, who deliv­ered a masterpiece of interesting di­gest in sur\'eying 50 years of Notre Dame's football highlights, paying particular honor to the present W. H. "Cap" Edwards, captain of the fam­ous team of 1909, champions of the West; Arch Ward, Chicago Tribune sports editor and N. D. alumnus, the only coach with" consistently 100 per cent successful seasons; Bill Stem, an NBC sports announcer. 
Space of course does not permit the repetition of the several hours of swiftly moving oratory that held the capacity crowd through the 1937 ban­quet. Decorations, food and music were in the style to which the ban­quet has become accustomed. 
Thomas Hickey, general chairman, worked long and faithfully on the program, ably supported by active committees of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley. William E. Voor, chairman of arrangements, set a new time record in seating the guests in the dining hall. Joe Petritz, in charge of publicity, brought out the full house to hear a balanced pro­gram arranged through the coopera­tion of the club and the University and the Athletic Association. Herb Jones performed the familiar and 
UNIVERSITY 
OF 


NOTRE DAME 
eoLT couMir 
difficult task of heading the commit­tee on handling the tickets so that the finance committee under Floyd Searer might cover the budget. Post­master B. J. McCaffery headed the committee which waited upon the visiting dignitaries. The entire affair reflected the organized effort of the club in paying this annual civic trib­ute to the team and its coaches. 

The latest make-up of the Notre Dame campus is presented here, in air-view and map, with the Rockne Memorial in­serted in each. Excavating for the Memorial building is going ahead during the winter months. 

THE PRESIDENT'S PAGE By William E. Cotter, '13 
Fi-iends of Notre Dame, including our own alumni, have been so im­pressed with the great progress of the University, and the recognition accorded it among the leading uni­versities of America, that emphasis is needed on a point sevei-al. times recorded in these pages. 
Notre Dame has a very inadequate endowment. 
Several yeare ago, the ALUMNUS carried a note to the effect that a leading educator set $12,000,000 as the minimum endowment for a suc­cessful college. 
Notre Dame still has slightly in excess of only $1,000,000. 
Up to a certain point, the "flesh­and-blood" endowment (the unre­munerated services of the religious in teaching, administrative and main­tenance positions) has compensated. 
Up to a cei-tain point, revenues from residence facilities and athletics have compensated. 
But progress has been so i-apid, several of the compensating factors are so variable, and the opportunities have so multiplied, that additional re­sources must be provided if Notre Dame is to continue its achievements and maintain its place in the aca­demic sun. 
PRESENT OPPORTUNITIES Two solicitations, for suppoi-t of two great projects, are now being made, in a quiet manner, among the alumni and other interested friends. One is the Rockne Memorial. The other is the Nieuwiand Memorial. Both projects commemorate the genius and the national fame of two of Notre Dame's own great alumni. Both also contribute to the continua­tion of the work of these men in their respective fields. For both projects, little more than §1,500,000 is aslved. You, particularly the alumni of Notre Dame, are staggered by this figure. But consider a few figures, i-ecent­ly issued, on the endowments of some of the other universities of America, schools with which Notre Dame is necessarily in academic competition. The Universit}- of Pennsylvania, alarmed because it possesses only $20,000,000 in endowment, recently launched (1937) a drive for an addi­tional $12,500,000. Basis for the drive was the follow­ing table of comparative endow­ments : 
fifisnno O"" Ynl" , li)4,0"0 000 
fi7,nnn nnn , Ki.nno.noo 3!;,nun nnn >T T '''. aj.nnn.nnn aj.nnn nnn a^.nnn.nnn si.nnn.nnn Johns Hopkins an.nnnnnn 
9a nnnnnn Northwestern 9-,nm,nnn Vanderbilt 
mnnn nnn California 
^^nnnnnn 

In the light of these figures, Notre Dame's financial shortcomings are obvious. The modesty of the requests for the Rockne and Nieuwiand me­morials is apparent. 
A LARGER PERSPECTIVE 
And more apparent is the need for the development of a larger pei-spec­tive on the part of alumni and friends. 
Obviously, Notre Dame and the of­ficers of the -A.lumni Association do not expect to see an immediate meta­morphosis from red ink to riches. 
But, to use a simple figure, Notre Dame has not only traveled an un­believable number of miles to the gallon, at high speed, but has given evei-yone connected with her a verj' comfoi-table ride toward an enviable destination. It doesn't seem reason­able to suggest occasional, modest re­filling of the Alma Mater tanks. 
A program ought to be formu­lated through the initiative of our Association to foster this continuing development of the University which has asked so little and done so much. 
Everj'one concedes that compara­tively recent growth of enrollment, and the adverse economic conditions, have combined to present an alumni group from which capital endowment can only be presently expected in i-are instances such as the generous gift of the Gushing Hall of Engi­neering, or the generous bequests of William P. Breen and Frank Phillips. 
Unquestionably, 10 to 25 more years, assuming normal economic conditions, will find Notre Dame alumni enjoying average prosperity and Notre Dame sharing this progress in increasing measure. 
But Notre Dame can't afford a 25­year moratorium in progress. What is the answer? 
LIVING ENDOWMENT 
The Alumni Association had the answer before the depression. It was Li\'ing Endowment. 
Few alumni can give Notre Dame $10,000 outright. But there are more who could give the University $500 each year from comfortable in­comes, and $500 represents the in­come on a $10,000 endowment fund. 
Comparatively few could give a thousand, but a substantial number could give $50—less than $5 a month —^which is interpreted as the income on $1,000. 
Relatively few of our alumni as a matter of fact could conveniently spare $500, but literally hundreds could afford annual gifts of $25. 
And so, even $10 and $5, given annually, loom large toward the solu­tion of Notre Dame's problem. 
Eight million dollars — still not enough to bring Notre Dame near the national leaders in the academic world, financially, — sounds like a prohibitive sum; $1,000 froiri every one of our 8,000 alumni! 
But an annual gift of $50, aver­age, from each of those same 8,000 alumni, icould do the same thing for Notre Davie. 
That doesn't sound bad, does it? 
INFLUENCE OTHERS 
In addition, alumni can influence immediately persons of wealth with­out definite objectives for it. Notre Dame lawyers through bequests, and all alumni through interesting per­sons with talent or hobbies in similar activities at Notre Dame — art, sci­ence, literature, politics and eco­nomics, journalism, the apologetics course, the medieval studies project 
— can further support of these proj­ects by outside assistance. 
Few schools, even the wealthy ones, fail to enlist this friendly assistance of outsiders. 
Tentatively, the Association oSicers are consulting the District Governors and Local Club officers in an effort to devise a plan which will concen­trate alumni effectiveness. 
Indications are that, properly ap­proached, the University can look for a much improved consciousness of essential bonds on the part of the alumni. 
And, what is definitely important from a selfish point of view, alumni can look for an increase in individual benefits from the Association, and at the same time an increase of benefits in relations with Notre Dame. 
1842—$400. 
1942—? You have the answer in vour hands. 




Girrs 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
From the Rev. E. P. Graham, of &nton, Ohio: 
An autographed letter of Father McLaughlin, famous controversialist. 
From the estate of the late Father Savage, of Detroit through the Rev. Terrence Kelly: 

An extensive and very valuable collection of Indian relics. 
From Miss Helen Chadwick, Ottawa, Ontario: 
A complete file of the thrrleen volumes of the Nem Yorl( Tablet, seven volumes of the London Lamp, three volumes of Duffv'i Hibemia Magazine, fourteen volumes pertaining to Irish History and Literature, and thirty-two other 
miscellaneous volumes.  
From the Rt. Rev. Msgr. Thomas V. Shannon, Chicago, Illinois: A copy of "Discourse on Dueling" fay Seigneur de Bratome (published in  1740).  
From Mrs. Eugene McBride, from the estate of the late Eugene McBride, '16: An excellent and valuable collection of guns.  
From Mr. E. Byrne Hackett, Ne w York City: A copy of "The Divine Comedy," (Venice edition,arist in Great Britain" by Thomas Bridgett.   1811), and a copy of "A History of the Holy Euch­ 
From Dr. Albert F. Zahm, '83: For the Communion rail in Zahm Hall . For the library of Holy Cross College, Washington, D.  C.  -$500 -$500  
From Mr. W . Gibbons Uffendell, el. '20: For the Department of Architecture: Two water-color drawings by Charles Morgan.  



For miscellaneous needs: 

From : The Most Rev. T. J. Toolen, D.D, Bishop of Mobile, Alabama Mr Edward J. Doyle, Chicago, Illinois (Lay Trustee) Mr. J. F. T. O'Connor, Washington, D. C. Mr. Herman Feigenheimer, Chicago, Illinois '. 
Anonymous For needy students—^Anonymous 

The Nieuwland Memorial 
Mr. Paul B. Beldcn, '32 Sl,000 Mr. Frederick B. Snite, Jr.. '33 100 Mr. Louis J. Tliomton, '29 100 Mr. Earl F. Gniber, '03 100 Mr. F. W. Uoyd 75 Mr. Joseph R. Brandy. '21 25 Anonymous. '29 25 Mr. Vincent A. Gorman, Jr., *35 25 
Rev. E. P. Murphy, '26 Mr. Leonard "W. Condon. '32 Mr. Francis L. Adrian. 
Pleasantville, N. Y. Dr. Gconre B. Eusterman. Rochester, Minn. Mr. J. Fcndall Froning. '37 
20 10 
10 
5 5 
Dr. P. A. Lcvene, New York City 5 Mr. Henry D. Hinton. '30 5 Mr. Francis T. Flj-nn. '31 5 Dr. James T. Nix, New Orleans, La. 5 Judge LeRoy Hackett, Chicago, 111. 5 Mr. Joseph W. Crotty, '37 5 Mr. Robert Van Lahr, '36 3 Mr. Jean Piccard, Minneapolis. Minn ^ 2 
Because of ihe variety of gifts, and because of the difference in circumstances of alumni, the AL ­UMNUS is particularly happy to quote from a letter of one of the generous contributors, to J. Arthur Haley, '26, treasurer of the Rock­ne Memorial Association: 
"., . You know, without my tell­ing you, that I am always glad to render to Notre Dame, any serv­ice, personal or othe^^vise, that I can. To me, Notre Dame has been literally. Alma Maier. 
"I haven't much use for people who are glib in reciting their af­fections, whether for people or for Institutions, and when the oppor­tunity offeis to make good on their statements, refuse to make sacrifices. For, after all, the value of most of our giving, whether dollars or services, should be de­tennlned by a measuring rod that entails SACRIFICES." 


y^ifL^ 
_$ioo 
_ 50 _ 50 _ 25 _ 25 _ 75 

The Roclcnc Memorial 
Mr. E. M. Morris, '06 $3,000 Anon>'mous 1,000 Mr. John J. O'Brien, South Bend 1,000 Mr. Frank E. Hering, '98 500 Mr. Conrad H. Mann, 
Kansas City, Mo. 500 Rev . Terrence Kelly, Detroit 200 Indiana & Michigan Electric Co. 600 Mr. J. R. Brandy, Jr.. '21 100 Dr. Joseph Evans, Cincinnati, Ohio 5 Mr. F. E. Doan, '29 5 Mr. Ewald Knebcl, South Bend 5 Mr. Joseph Bittorf, '33 3 Mr. Al Shipacasse, '30 
3 Mr. Dennis Shechan, Rochester. N . Y. 2 
From the Ix>gansport Radiator Com­pany, throuBh the courtesy of Mr. James E. Disan, '29, instaUatton o£ the radiators for the Rockne Memorial Buildin;;. 
^ . C^C'CC^A. <rJ. C. 
» » »

SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI 
TTUGH C. MITCHELL, C.E. '95, 
•t l B.S. '98, "Washington, D. C, mathematician in the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, is the noted fig^ure for whom "Hugh Mitchell 
HUGH C. MITCHELL 

Peak," one of the prominent peaks in Antarctica, was named by Admiral Richard E. Byrd. Mr. Mitchell had been chosen by the National Geo­graphic Society to head a commission in 1926 which verified Byrd's claims of having reached the North Pole; and he served in 1930 as head of the special committee which verified the same claims as to the South Pole. 
Verifying claims was not new to Mr. Mitchell. In 1910 he was asked by Congress to serve as expert in studying the navigational observa­tions of Peary when Congress was deadlocked on the question of recog­nizing and honoring that explorer for having reached the North Pole. Mr. Mitchell found that the claims were fully justified, and his iindings were accepted by Congress and the honor granted.­
One of Mr. Mitchell's important duties is to assist as expert in draft­ing surveying laws for various states of the Union. Much of his work in this direction has already become state law. He is otherwise engaged in special studies and research in higher surveying and does extensive writing of a technical nature for books, pam­phlets, articles and reports. 
nOENELIUS J. CAREY, JR., '30, ^ Malone, New York, is the county judge and surrogate and judge of the Children's Court of Franklin County, New York. Con was appointed to the position last May by Governor Herbert Lehman to fill a vacancy. In November he ran for the post and was elected by the exceedingly thin margin of 22 votes, being the only Democrat chosen on the county ticket. 
Con was graduated from Fordham Law School in 1932, then practiced law and, in 1933, was an imsuccessful candidate for member of the State 
CORNELIUS J. CAREY, JR. 

Assembly. He was elected justice of the peace of the town of Harriets­town in 1935. 
"Pl R A N K OBERKOETTER, '32, •*- Peoria, Illinois, gave proof of his standing as one of the nation's leading professional photographers when the special international exhibit of the Photographers Association of America was shown in January in the Notre Dame library. One of Frank's accomplishments, an adver­tising picture featuring a brand of perfume, was included in the exhibit. The work of outstanding photogra­phers from Sweden, Japan, Holland, and Canada, as well as from the United States, was on display. 
T EO E. McINTYRE, '28, is the new 
• ^ president of the school board of Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. Only 31 years old, Leo is the youngest per­son ever elected to that position in Bethlehem. He was chosen as a school director in 1931 and was re­elected in 1933 for a six-year term. 
Leo is president of the Notre Dame Club of Eastern Pennsylvania and the outgoing president of the Irish-American Society of the Lehigh Valley. 
"piRNEST M. MORRIS, '06, presi­^-^ dent of the Associates Invest­ment Company, with headquarters in South Bend, and chairman of the First Bank and Trust Company of South Bend, is chairman of the local advisory committee which is assisting the University in completing the necessary funds for the Rockne Me­morial. 
Bom in a log house 25 miles south­west of South Bend, Mr. Morris has encompassed farm work, school-teach­ing, the practice of law, municipal office and finance in a remarkable career. For four years he was presi­dent of the Board of Public Works 
ERNEST M. MORRIS 

in South Bend and, in 1926, he was elected president of the National As­sociation of Finance Companies. He is an active figure in the South Bend Community Fund and in many other civic movements. 
By JOHN J. LECHNER. "37 

CAMPUS NOTES » » 
CARDS AND NOVENAS 
We'd like to thank those readers who were so kind as to send us Christmas greetings. The most novel was from E.M.A., postmarked Cin­cinnati, Ohio—a pen and ink sketch of a male figure at a typewriter seated beneath a sign reading "Cam­pus Notes." 
Speaking of Christmas, the Prefect of Religion's office reports the most successful pre-Christmas "Novena for Parents" in many years. Seventeen hundred students signed up for the nine day spiritual-offering, and there was a daily shoilage of cassocks and surplices for those taking part in half-hour adoration periods before the Bernini altar in Sacred Heart 
"Church. It is estimated that during the novena there was a minimum of 20,000 student hours spent before the Blessed Saci-ament. The drive against lewd and indecent magazines has seen a pledge card return here at Notre Dame of almost 100 per cent. 
(A similar campaign is being insti­tuted at Georgeto«-n Universitj' in Washington, D.C..) Incidentally, the religious set-up here is being handled differently this year. Father John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, prefect of reli­gion, has three assistants. Father John Lj-nch, C.S.C, in Dillon, Father Frank Gartland, C.S.C, in Cava­naugh, and Father Richard Grimm, C.S.C, in Howard Hall, each assist­ant thus taking care of approximate­ly a third of the campus. Holy Com­munion is distributed in the Dillon Chapel throughout the morning, and in Cavanaugh and Howard for two hours each morning. 
RAZOR VS. RADIO 
With the gowing popularity of electric razors (adv.) there has de­veloped two schools of thought here at Notre Dame which maj' well soon threaten hall democracy. During the times w^hen the "Little Oi-phan An­nies," "Dan Dunns," "Dick Tracys," et al, reign supreme on the air, claim the radio devotees, reception would please even a perfectionist. But, they argue, during periods allotted to their ether favorites the electric razors swing into action •with an accompany­ing drone in all receiving sets. The razorites have been maintaining a stony calm (we almost said that they hadn't turned a hair) but the radio­rators have begun to move into action. In Dillon hall last month appeared the following sign: "Notice! Will those guys with electric razors use the plug over the sink? That circuit does not affect the radios!" Under this screed in a different handwriting was appended: "Like h— it doesn't!" 
DEBATING ODYSSEY 
Armed to the teeth with facts per­taining to: "Resoh-ed: That the Na­tional Labor Relations Board should be empowered to enforce arbitration of all industrial disputes" the debat­ing team will engage in some 40 de­bates over a period of two months. Members of the squad include Albert Funk, La Crosse, Wisconsin, Frank Fitch, Cherokee, Iowa, Charles Col­gan, Buenos Aires, Argentina, and Frank Parks, Rice Lake, Wisconsin, affirmative; and Tom Mulligan, Cleve­land Heights, Ohio, Charles Osbom, Brooklyn, New York, Milton Wil­liams, Elkhart, Indiana, and Frank Brame, Alexandria, Louisiana, nega­tive. The schedule: February 24, Villanova College (here, tentative); Febniai-y 25, 26, Manchester College tournament for both A and B squads (North Manchester, Indiana); March 3, 4, 5—^University of Iowa tourna­ment (Iowa City, Iowa); March 5— St. Ambrose College (Davenport, Iowa); March 11—^Michigan State (here); March 18—Jlichigan State (Lansing, Mchigan); March 24— University of Vermont (here) ; March 25, 26 — Univei-sity of Wisconsin tournament (Madison, Wisconsin); April 7—Princeton (here, tentative); and April 20—^Holy Cross (here). 
That debating experience can be commercialized is being proven by ex-debaters, Tom Proctor, '35, Elk­hart, Indiana, and Bob Schmelzle, '37, Freeport, Illinois, now seniors in the law school. For a fe.e and expenses Tom and Bob tour to neighboring high schools and act as critic-judges. We are investigating a rumor that a condition precedent to an appearance by them upon the platform of the evening is the advance payment of the aforementioned fee. 
THE MONTH IN BRIEF 
Sciip, campus literary quarterly, and the Lawyer, publication issued by students in the law school, made their second appearance of the year. . . . The Lawyer featured articles by Arthur J. Hughes, 1936-37 president of the Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion, and Professor William P. Stem-berg of the Creighton University School of Law . . . Even though the Scholastic has been carrying weekly threats concerning deadlines for sen­ior Dome pictures, the period for having pictures taken has been ex­tended. . . . New ventilators have been installed in Washington Hall. . . . Plenty of social activity. . . . The University Band sponsored a formal for the first time in its history. . . . In the immediate offing are the Engi­neers' Ball, the K. of C Ball, and the Junior Prom. . . . 
CIRCULATING LIBRARY 
Chester P. Sadowski, a student from Grosse Pointe Park, Michigan, has endowed a circulating library in St. Edward's Hall .. . A subscriber to many magazines, Sadowski, when finished reading a publication, stamps thereon his name and address and borrowing is permitted. . . . Tourgee DeBose, eminent colored pianist, gave a recital in Washington Hall. . . . Other guests in the hall during the month included John Mahill and his 14-year-old protege, Jeffery Monger-son, in "Spotlight Sketches." . . . The sketches derived their name from the fact that no scenery was used—the miming being done beneath a power­ful spotlight before a dark cui-tain. 
GOLD AND BLUE LICENSES 
It has been announced that Indi­ana's license plates for 1939 will fea­ture the gold and blue of Notre Dame . . . The crimson and cream of Indiana, and the black and old gold of Purdue have been used in the past two years. . . . Headlines in the Scholastic relating to a meeting of the Patrician's club during which Tom Doody, Gary, Indiana, delivered a paper: " 'Classics Not Dead' Doody Tells Club" . . . We'll wager the Pa­tricians were certainly relieved to get that information. . . . Scholastic edi­torials have been thumping the drum for Notre Dame to sponsor a 150­pound football team .. . A great idea since interrhall football no long­er exists and the "pewees" who like the game should be given an oppor­tunity . . . We'd like to organize a team ourselves .. . A good nucleus could revolve around Bert Metzger, Bunny JfcCormick, Cotton Warbur­ton, and Tippy Die . . . Any chal­lenges? . . . 
(Continuwl on Page 120) 

UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS . * « 
•pjR. ARTHUR H. COMPTON, of *-^ the University of Chicago, and Dr. Carl D. Anderson, of the Cali­fornia Institute of Technology, Pasa­dena, recipients of the Nobel awards in physics in 1927 and 1936, respec­tively, will attend a physics sympo­sium at the University of Notre Dame, May 2 and 3. 
Besidies the Nobel prize winners, Dr. Harlow Shapley, or Hai-^'ard uni­versity, Cambridge, Massachusetts, the centuiy's leading astronomer, will participate. 
Also participating in the sympo­sium will be the following from Notre Dame: Canon Georges Le­maitre, distinguished visiting profes­sor from Louvain and founder of the theoi-y of the expanding universe; Dr. Arthur E. Haas, who will deliver a paper on "Cosmic Constants," com­prising an extension of a theorj- the foundations of which he first pre­sented at Harvard's tercentenary cel­ebration; and Dr. Eugen Guth, noted for his work on the physics of rubber. 
There will be many other noted figures, including these: Dr. Gregoi-y Breit, of the University of Wiscon­sin, Madison, particularly noted for his recent discovery of new primor­dial forces; Professor W. D. Harkins, of the University of Chicago, leading authority on the distribution of chem­ical elements in the universe; Profes­sor M. S. Vallarta, of the Massachu­setts Institute of Technology, Bos­ton, known for his extensive research on the iniluence of terrestrial mag­netism on cosmic ray particles, ac­complished in collaboration with Compton and Lemaitre; and Profes­sor J. F. Carlson, of Purdue univer­sity, West Lafayette, Indiana, bril­liant young theoretical physicist. 
R
EV. RAYMOND J. CLANCY, C.S.C, '29, contributed the lead­ing article, "American Prelates in the Vatican Council" to the latest issue of Historical Records and Studies, the ofBcial publication of the United States Catholic Historical Society. The article, fully documented, covers 135 of the 270 pages of the volume. 
Two dogmas were defined and questions of discipline were discussed in the Vatican Council, assembled in 1869, Father Clancy points out. From the United States, five archbishops. 
39 bishops and one abbot were sum­moned for the all-important occa­sion. 
Enthusiastic prais e of Father Clancy's article has come from nu­merous persons, among them the .\postoUc Delegate and Cardinal Hayes in this country, and Rt. Rev. Msgr. .'i.rthur Jackman, canon of Westminster Cathedral, in England. 
r\R . FR.ANCIS E. McM.^HON, of 
the Department of Philosophy, was the guest speaker in December at the Catholic Press Confei-ence sponsored by the League of Catholic Home and School Associations of Milwaukee. His subject was "The Quest for Order." 
pROFESSOR LOUIS L. HASLEY, 
of the Department of English, is the new president of the Lay Faculty Club of the College of Arts and Let­ters. Professor Daniel C. O'Grady, of the Department of Philosophy, is the new vice-president, and Professor Andrew T. Smithberger, of the De­partment of English, the new secre­tarj-- treasurer. The club meet s monthly in the school year to hear papers and discuss them. 
pUBLIC OPINION must exert a 
stronger influence on the press, the radio and the movies if the free­dom of these agencies is to be pre­served, according to the opinions ex­pressed by Hector David Castro, minister to the United States from the republic of El Salvador, in a sym­posium on good government in Wash­ington Hall on January 10. 
In his speech, entitled "Material­ism, the Enemy of Peace," Dr. Casti'o referred particularly to the subversive agencies now operating 
"THOUGHTS OF A RECLUSE" 
Paul R. Byrne, University libra­rian, is particularly eager to pro­cure a copy of Austin O'Malley's Thoughts of a Recluse, published in Chicago by McBride in the late 1890's. Any one having a copy of the book is particularly asked to communicate with Mr. Byrne. 
within the United States to under­mine, not only the United States form of government, but the govern­ment itself. 
Commander H. B. Grow, Detroit, retired naval officer and former ad­viser to President Leguia, of Peru, was the other principal speaker at the symposium. His subject was "The Constitution." Presiding was Clar­ence E. (Pat) Manion, professor of law, and in attendance were Rev. Robert J. White, dean of the Law School at Catholic University, and John R. McGovem, legal counsel for the Carnegie Foundation. Father White and Mr. McGovem were the chief speakers at the Football Ban­quet on the evening of the same day. 
TN THE ORDINARY habitat of a •*• living thing, sound health without germs is unlikely, according to the experiments conducted at Notre Dame by Professor James -Arthur Reyniers, of the Department of Biology, in the germ-free equipment which he has constructed. 
Professor Reyniers discussed his experiments and displayed his equip­ment at the December meeting in In­dianapolis of the the American Asso­ciation for the -Advancement of Sci­ence. 
Guinea pigs, rabbits, rats and mice have been bom in the germless equip­ment and chickens hatched there. In­sects and plants have been grown there, too. The animals so bom when removed from the equipment lacked something essential to healthy well­being, accsrding to Professor Rey­niers, and this lack apparently cen­tered in their digestive organs. The plants, wheat and com, when re­moved from their germ-free sur­roundings, were not so healthy, even, as the animals The insects, it seemed, were the least affected by removal. 
What these germless organisms lacked in a germ-ridden world has not yet been determined. Professor Reyniers said. He theorized that the missing elements might be vitamins, enzymes or other chemicals, which the germs make when they are in the body. The missing germs indnded about 200 species, all of them com­mon to a man's digestive tract and ordinarily referred to by a medical scientist as non-pathogenic, that is, harmless to health. 
Commenting on his work. Profes­sor Reyniers said, "Germ-free ani­mals grow and look quite normal as far as weight and general appearance are concerned. They can be consid­ered abnormal only in comparison with a normal environment. They are quite normal while they remain within the cage. 
"Germ-free living things have to be fed very carefully, and must be watched constantly. Sterilization of food affects the food, and conse­quently the animal. Diets must be changed to meet individual needs. 
"Our work has been primarily di­rected toward creating a complete germ-free mechanical syste m in which all tj^ies of experiments may be performed without danger of con­tamination. The germ-free animal and plant phase of it is only one product of the system." 
"MXTMEEOUS FACULTY representa­
•^' tives attended educational con­ventions within the Christmas holi­day period. 
The largest facultj' group was in Indianapolis for the meeting of the American Association for the -A.d­vancement of Science, where several Notre Dame men were on the speak­ing program. The Notre Dame rep­resentation included Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C, Rev. Henry Bol­ger, C.S.C, Rev. Edgar J. Molter, C.S.C., Dr. Theodor K. Just, Dr. Arthur Haas, Dr. Eugen Guth, Dr. Karl Menger, Professor J. A. Rey­niers and his assistants, Robert Irvin and Philip Trexler, and Francis Dart, a graduate assistant. 
Professor RejTiiers presented to the meeting the results of his experi­ments with germ-free equipment. (A separate discussion of these experi­ments will be found just ahead.) 
Dr. Guth presented a paper to the science meeting on "The Hydrody­namical Theory of the Viscosity of Suspensions." In conjunction with Dr. Guth, Dr. Haas read a paper on "The Relation Between Stefan's Radiation Law and Neast's Heat The­orem" and Dr. Guth, with Mr. Dart, read a second paper on "The Ther­moelastics and Structure of Rubber." 
Eev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C, Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C, and Rev. Norbert Hoff attended the meet­ing of the American Catholic Philo­sophical Society in New York City. Father Brennan spoke on "The Social Reconstruction According to the En­cyclical 'Quadragesimo Aimo.' 
In Chicago for the meeting of the Association of American Law School were Professor Clarence E. Manion, 
Professor  Earl  Eichter,  Professor  
William  D. Rollison  and  Professor  
John H. Whitman.  

Professor William H. Downey, head 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
NEW PUBLICATION SCHEDULE 
In keeping with the economy program of the Association, the next issue of the ALUMNUS will be mailed in mid-March and the issue after that, in early May. The final issue of the year will be in June after Commencement. 

of the Department of Economics, at­
tended the national economics meet­
ing at Atlantic City, New Jersey. 
rpHE UNIVERSITY CHOIR of Mo­
reau Seminary directed by Rev. 

James H. Young, '32, supplied the 
musical portion of the "Church of 
the Air" program broadcast on De­
cember 12 from the campus to a na­
tionwide audience through WPAM, 
South Bend, a station of the Colum­
bia system. The address on the pro­
gram was given by Most Rev. John 
P. Noll, LL.D., '15, bishop of Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
JOHN DWYER, Chicago, invest­^ ment expert, gave a series of lec­tures in December to the seniors in the College of Commerce. Mr. Dwyer discussed vocational opportunities in the investment field for college grad­uates soundly trained in finance, de­claring that such graduates have bet­ter chances for success at present than at any time within the past ten years. Mr. Dwyer is recognized as one of the few financial experts who anticipated the crash of 1929. 
S
ECOND SEMESTER CLASSES 
resumed Tuesday, February 1, 

with a mild upheaval of student ac­
tivity. 
Thirty-tsvo students finished their academic requirements, but diplomas imder the present regime are award­ed to these men in June. The gradu­ations, together with a few with­drawals during the semester for var­ious causes, are approximately equalled, the Registrar reports, by new and returning students entering for the second semester, so that en­rollment remains practically in status quo, —3,080. 
Enrollment for next scholastic year is already 87 per cent ahead of the enrollment on the same date a year ago. 
The ALUMNUS suggests that alum­ni interested in enrolling prospective students take or urge early action. Selection of rooms and choice of courses are possible for the early ap­plicant, while the late comer finds these facilities limited to varying de­grees. 
For the benefit of alumni who are personally interested or who are sub­
February, 1938 

ject to question — rates for the fresh­men in 1938-39 are: 
Broumson and Carroll halls 
$35i.00 each semester Freshman hall 381.00 each semester Cavanaitgh and Zakm halls 
399.00 to $417.00 
each semester 

These rates include instruction; meals; laundry; general and depart­mental library use; mimeograph notes in connection with studies; lectures, concerts , and entertainments in Washington Hall; attendance, dis­pensary service and medical atten­tion in the Infirmary in case of ill­ness; use of the Rocfcne Memorial fieldhouse, gymnasium, athletic fields, and golf course (excepting a nominal fee of ten cents a day); admission to athletic contests at Notre Dame; a copy of the news weekly, the Scho­lastic; a copy of the literary quarter­ly. Scrip, and a copy of the yearbook, the Dome. 
JOSEPH L. APODACA, A.B. '30, ^ associate professor of economics and statistics, has been granted a semester leave of absence and is in Washington, V. C, to act as economic research expert in the department of agriculture. 
Prof. Apodaca received his M.B.A. from Northwestern University in 1933 and has completed studies lead­ing to a Ph.D. His work in Washing­ton involves the directing, conducting and interpreting of statistical and historical data in certain phases of agricultural development in this coun­try, with emphasis on potential mar­keting of American farm products. 
The appointment marks the recog­nition of merit as a teacher, speaker on economic subjects, and student in the graduate field. 
•R/TATHEMATICAL GENIUSES of 
•^'•^ two continents \vill gather at Notre Dame February 11-12 for the second annual symposium of mathe­matics. Experts from the faculties of Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Chicago, and Notre Dame •n'ill lead the discus­sion. 
Outstanding in interest will be Dr. Edward V. Himtington of Harvard. Dr. Huntington has made a mathe­matical study of recent telepathic ex­periments conducted by the use of radio and has concluded that pure coincidence cannot explain the amaz­ing number of correct answers ob­tained. 
Notre Dame ^vill be represented on the program by Dr. Karl Menger, former Vienna professor, and Dr. Emil Artin, former Hamburg pro­fessor, and in attendance by the de­partment of mathematics, including Canon Georges Lemaitre, brilliant priest - professor of Louvain, who is arriving to join the Notre Dame fac­ulty for the second semester. 
By JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. "32 
» » » 

Director of Athletic Publicity 
ATHLETICS 
BASKETBALL 
The basketball team of Coach George Keogan's has hit its stride— the stride it strikes annually early in January and holds through most of February—and we can all relax again. 
A look at Keogan's all-time record shows that only three times in his 15 years at Notre Dame have his teams come through December without a beating. The current season proved to be no exception. Keogan's method partially accounts for this quirk of the records. He works on defense in the early part of the season, and brings his offense along slowly. His all-time record is indication enough that the man knows his business. And his record this year of 12 victories in 14 starts to date is only further proof that Notre Dame has the great­est college basketball coach in the country. 
More impressive to us than his re­markable record is his uncanny abil­ity to call his shots. Shortly before the Illinois game in December—after his team had won six games in a row this year and 19 in a row over a two-year span—^he confided that Illinois would beat Notre Dame, but that Notre Dame would come right back and knock the stuffings out of North­western. It took Illinois a five-minute overtime period to nose the Irish out, 33 to 32. The game was tied 15-all at the half and 30-all at the end of regulation time. 
WildcaU Ahead at Half 

We sauntered in Patten gym New Year's eve in time to see Northwest-em and Notre Dame leave the floor with the Wildcats ahead, 25 to 17. We witnessed enough of the first half so that we could remark disconso­lately that "For once, Keogan is wrong." How did we know that in the second half the Irish would score 23 points to 4, and win 40 to 29 for one of the most decisive vic­tories in the long and colorful Wild­cat-Irish series? 
In the interests of honesty we must report <jiat Keogan made no predic­tion on the game with Minnesota at Minneapolis. "It will be a very tough game," iie said. "We can w;in if we play the ball we're capable of, but it will have to be better than it has been at any time this season." In other words, he wasn't sure. His team was in the balance, teetering betweehitthe deft excellence that has marked its play since and the indif­ferent slipshod performance that marked some of the early season games. Well, it proved to be one of those bad nights. Minnesota's defending Big Ten co - champions (with Illinois) were hot. Notre Dame looked dead on its feet, and Minne­sota won, 37 to 25. We are not claiming that Notre Dame should have w^on, although two weeks later we would bet that the metamorphosis which affected both teams would have swung the decision to Notre Dame by just as large a score. 
Moir Recovers Punch 

This defeat, the worst suffered by the Irish in more than a year, proved to be the awakening force. Johnny Moir, who had slumped badly, was benched and he was almost left home from the Eastern swing which took in games with Penn and Canisius at Philadelphia and Buffalo, respective­ly. Keogan juggled his lineup for the Penn game, and Eddie Sadowski led the Irish, with 16 points, to a 45 to 25 victory. Moir looked so good in the second half of this game that he was restored to his starting post against Canisius before the home­town Niagara Falls folks at Buffalo, and he popped 19 points in as many minutes. Notre Dame won, 57 to 33. 
Kentuckj''s Southeastern confer­ence champions, who had thumped Pitt, 40 to 29, in the Sugar Bowl game at New Orleans, came to town and Notre Dame won its thirteenth straight home victory, 47 to 37. No­wak met his match in Homer Thomp­son, rangy Kentucky center, but Moir couldn't be stopped, getting 20 points for the evening, while Earl Brown and Tommy Wukovits collected 11 points apiece from their guard posts. 
Nowak, brooding over his three quick fouls against Thompson, made Pitt's center, Joe Garcia, pay the price a few nights later, dominating the floor play, while Sadowsld and Moir did the heavy scoring in a 51 to 41 triumph. 
Butler Provides Scare 

Butler, which had conquered Pitt, Northwestern, and Michigan among others, threw a good scare into the Irish during a deliberate first half which featured the delayed offense. The Bulldogs led, 14 to 13, at the in­termission; Sadowski opened the sec­ond half with the field goal that put Notre Dame ahead, the Irish staged a 12-point rally in three-minute time to take a commanding lead. Butler hung in there until it was 20-19 but the Irish suddenly went wild to make it 32 to 21. Scoring was divided almost equally between Wukovits, Moir, Nowak, and Brown. 
This miniature winning streak of five games may not be so impressive on its length. But in this short space of five games the Irish have found themselves. From a disorganized, slow, sometimes indifferent-appearing group, they became the same quintet that swept through 20 of their 23 games last year for an unofficial na­tional championship. The personnel is the same as last year, except that Captain Ray Meyer has just returned to action at forward after a six-week layoff occasioned by a dislocated right elbow. But the spark was lack­ing. Maybe it was Keogan's method of coaching defense before offense— ^vith which plan we have no argu­ment, understand. Maybe it was proof of his theory that senior teams always come along more slowly than sophomore and junior teams. Maybe the boys lacked incentive after last year's great showing. Maybe the ab­sence of Captain Meyer—spark plug of last year's team—^provides the an­swer. Maybe Notre Dame was slower than Illinois and Minnesota in react­ing to the new rules. Maybe it took a couple of lickings to get Nowak*s, Moir's, Wukovit's, Brown's, and Sa­dowski's "Irish" up—^not an Irishman in the_ crowd, incidentally. And may­be Illinois and Minnesota — the Big Ten CO-champions — were corking good basketball teams. 
May ImproTe Record 

Anyhow, the Irish are rolling again, the storm signals are flying, and Keo­gan may even improve on last year's record by winning the rest of his games. The record to date follows: 
'Kotre Bame, 49; Colmnbia (Dulraane). 18. 
Notre Dame, 43; Ban State. 28. Notre Dame, 60; Western Stata 21. 
Notre Dame. 33; Wisconsin, SI. Notre Dame, 30: Northwestern, 27. 
Notre Dame, 45; Xavier, 26. Notre Dame, 32; Illinois. 33 (overtime^-. 
Notre Dame. 40; Northwestern. 29. 
Notre Dame, 25; Minnesota. 37. Notre Dame, 45; Pennsylvania, 25. 
Notre Dame. 67; Canisius, 33. 
Notre Dame, 47; KentneiiT. 37. 
Notre Dame, 51; Pittsbnrsh, 41. 
Notre Dame, 39; Butler, 26. 
Before giving yon the rest of the schedule (as this is written), we would like to point ont that Mar­quette at Milwaukee, Febmary 9, is probably the stiffest test remaining. Marquette is always- good competi-' tion, especially on its home floor, and this year the Hilltoppers have what they believe is the iinest team in their history. 
Feb. 1—St. Louis U. at Notre Dame. Feb. 5—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame. Feb. 9—Marquette at Milwaukee. Feb. 14—Butler at Indianapolis. Feb. 21—^MichiRan State at Notre Dame. Feb. 25—New York U. at New York. Feb. 26—Colgate at Albany. Mar. 4—Marquette at Notre Dame. Mar. 11—Detroit U. at Detroit. 
TRACK 
A well-balanced dual meet team, sprinkled with stars — and too sus­ceptible to injur y — characterizes Notre Dame's 1938 track team in a nutshell. 
Coach John P. Nicholson, 1912 United States hurdles champion and Olympic star, says he is through ex­perimenting. He is bringing his squad along more slowly than ever before in his career in an effort to avoid shin splints, fallen arches, char­ley horses and the other ailments to which track men everyivhere, and particularly those at Notre Dame in 1938, are vulnei-able. 
Injuries and lack of resei-ve strength gave Noti-e Dame one of its poorest dual teams in Nicholson's ten years at Notre Dame last season, even though the Irish were able to win the Central Collegiate confer­ence indoor meet and to take third in the outdoor meet. His squad is back almost intact and "Nick" wants to keep it that way. 
Rice Has Back Injury 

Greg Rice, C.C.C. indoor mile champion and record holder at 4:16.2, is also the National CoUe^ate cham­pion and two-mile record holder at 9:14.2, having shaved two full sec­onds off the old record at Berkeley, California, last June. A junior from Missoula, Montana, Rice was slow coming into shape last year, and a back injury is holding him back this year. Nicholson has given him only one hard workout this year, and he has worked Rice only half as much as the rest of his squad. The small­est major distance star now running in the United States, he demonstrated his grit at the N.C.A.A. meet when, after taking fourth in the mile, he returned to win the two-mile with a stretch sprint which overcame four other stars, and left the Pacific Coast in a hub-bub for days afterwards. 
Nicholson believes that Rice is a better two-miler—although Rice did not subscribe to this opinion until after last year's N.C.A.A. meet—and that the Irish star will run a 9:05 two-mile before he is through with track. 
Dan Gibbs, Nick's one-man track team last year, has been clearing 13 feet 6 inches consistently in pole vault practice and Nicholson believes he will be one of the two or three best college stars in the country in this event this year. Gibbs is a fine competitor, as he showed in winning the Drake relays vault last year under poor conditions at 13 feet % inch. He also participates in the low hurdles, javelin throw, and broad jump. 
William (Bud) Faymonville, Evan­ston, Illinois, junior, has proved him­self the best discus man in Notre Dame historj', as well as a valuable shot putter to have around. He won both the C.C.C. outdoor and Indiana State championships in both events last year, tossing the discus 155 feet 4% inches for an all-time Notre Dame record, and getting as high as 48 feet with the shot. He has re­covered from a broken right hand, and now he's trying to get over the effects of a long siege with a strepto­coccus infection in his throat, having just recently rejoined the team. 
Sprint Relay Team Good 

Notre Dame's sprint relay should be one of the fastest of the year. Bill Clifford, who ran a 9.6 century last year, is a senior this year. Tom Shields and Steve CougWin, sopho­mores, and Jake Wolf, junior, have been giving Clifford lots of competi­tion indoors. 
The hurdles department has been fortified by the return to shape of Captain Bill Mahoney, eminent fic­tion writer, who was laid up most of last year with a pulled tendon. Bob Lawrence, full-blooded Indian sopho­more from Oklahoma, is showing signs of being just as good as Ma­honey. Notre Dame will score points with these boys in both the highs and lows. Mahoney will also run the 440 with the mile relay team. 
Pete Sheehan, a senior letterman, leads the 440-yard aspirants. Joe Halpin, a sophomore, has beaten him in practice. Both are good for 52 or better indoors and better than 50 flat outdoors. 
John Francis, senior half-miler from Chicago, is a sure point-winner in his event. He has run 1:57 on the Notre Dame track and 1:54.5 out­doors. Curtis Heston, sophomore prospect, ^^^ll probably shade two minutes indoors. 
Bill Donnelly, a junior who was laid up last year with weak arches, will supplement Rice in the mile run. 
Steve Szumachowski an d Gene Gormley will also give Rice a help­ing hand in the tivo-mile. Szuma­chowski held the Notre Dame two-mile record briefly at 9:33.3 until Rice broke it so decisively. He has been clocked in 9:25 for seventh in the C.C.C. outdoor meet. Gormley, a fine competitor, has run 9:32, and he took third in the C.C.C. indoor meet. 
Gibbs' colleagues in the pole vault will be Harold Langton, who did 13 feet 3 inches on one occasion last year; and John Dean, a sophomore, who should clear 12 feet 6 inches. 

The Irish were practically blank in the high jump last year, but Ted Leonas, a sophomore who has cleared 6 feet 4 inches,' should strengthen this department considerably. 
Besides Faymonville, the shot put coterie includes Ed Beinor, ail-Amer­ican tackle; Ed Simonich, fullback; and Mike Mandjiak, sophomore south­paw, who is a footballer and a fine pitching prospect in baseball. Beinor bettered 46 feet last year, and Sim­onich was only a foot or so behind. 
Gibbs and Leonas, both capable of clearing 22 feet, will carrj- the Notre Dame colors in the broad jump. 
TRACK SCHEDULE 

Indoor Feb. 4—Marquette at Notre Dame Feb. 12—Illinois at Notre Dame Feb. 29—Indiana at Bloominffton Feb. 26—Drake at Des Moines Mar. 5—Illinois relays at Champai;;n Mar. 11-12—CC.C. meet .it Notre Dame Mar. 19—Butler relays at Indianapolis 
Outdoor April 23—Quadrangular with Ohio State. Mich­
ifmn and Indiana at Bloomingion April 29.30—Penn or Drake relays May 7—Ohio State at Notre Dame May 14.—Michifran Stnte at Notre Dame May 21^Marquetto at Milwaukee May 28—Indiana state meet at Bloomington June 3—C.C.C. meet at Milwaukee June 17-18—N.C.A.A. meet at Minneapolis 
FENCING 
After losing the opener to Purdue, 15 to 12, the Fighting Irish fencing team came back to win its second start, 12% to 4%, from Detroit. Professor Pedro de Landero, who in­stituted the sport on the campus, has only two lettermen back from last year, and he predicts that the Irish will not really hit their stride until late in the season when his new­comers have hacked out a little ex­perience. The letermen are Captain Jack Zerbst and Salvatore Scarlatta. 
The Irish tradition of fine sabre teams was upheld in the Purdue match, Notre Dame winning this event, 7 to 2. Purdue won the epee by the same score, however, and took the foils, 6 to 3, to win the meet. 
SCORES: Notre Dame, 12 ; Purdue, 15 Notre Dame, 12iS ; Detroit, 4>4 
SCHEDULE Feb. 4—ChicaRo at Chicago Feb. 5—Ohio State at Notre Dame Feb. 19—Lawrence Tech at Notre Dame Feb. 26—Purdue at Notre Dame March 5—-Wisconsin at Madison March 12—Cincinnati at Notre Dame March 19—W.-ishinBton U. at St. Louis 
SPRING SPORTS 
Schedules for Notre Dame spring sports team, in addition to the track card previously announced, were made public recently by Elmer Lay-den, director of athletics. 
Notre Dame and Michigan meet twice in baseball and once in tennis and golf, marking the first dual com­
(Continued on Page 131) 

ALUMNI CLUBS » » > 
AKRON 
Frank E. Steel, ex. '25. 327 Wildwood Ave­nue, President: James E. Coulter, ex. *30, 573 West Exchange Street. Secretarj'­
ARKANSAS 
Burt L. Roberts, 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Roclv. Ark., Secretary. 
BENGAL 
Rt. Rev. Timoths- Crowley. C.S.C., '02. Dacca. Bengal. India. President: Rev. J. J. Hennessey, C.S.C, '02, Dacca, Bengal. India, Secretarj-. 
BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) 
Thomas Grimes, '31, 35 South Third Street. Niles, Michigan, President; Sheridan Cool^, '32, CO South Bend Tribune, US North Third Street, Niles, Michigan, Secretary. 
The club conducted a highly suc­cessful dance in the Four Flags Ho­tel, Niles, on January 8. Jim Book-waiter was the chairman of the dance and on the committee were Bill Dow­ney, Kenneth Geideman, John Jauch, 
Jim Kenny, Phil Landsman, Bill Madden, John Medo and Gene O'TooIe. 
Our December meeting was strict­ly an "eating" session, developing from the fact that we had 28 plates of chicken ordered with only 17 pres­ent to do the honors. The meeting was held December 16 at the Hotel Wren in Berrien Springs. 
The affair was scheduled for De­cember 15, and it was only after the 28 had signified their intention of be­ing present that the committe learned the date fell on an Ember Day, mak­ing the postponement necessary. 
I do not mean to confer the im­pression that any food was wasted. In fact. Judge Malcolm Hatfield, boss of the Berrien county probate court, was late in arriving, and had to be content with the necks and not very many of them. 
James Kenny was in charge of the arrangements and left nothing to be desired. Professor William Downey was to have given a talk but omitted it after deciding the group was too full to be in any mood for the ad­dress which he had prepared. 
The club voted to sponsor a Uni­versity Night in Niles some time in January. All college men in the city \vill hold a session which the club hopes will become an annual affair. Prof. Downey is arranging the details. 
Sheridan Cook. 

BOSTON Fred C. Solan", '35, Center St.. Pembroke. Mass.. President: John J. Hanley, "34, 409 Salem St., Medford, Mass., Secretary: Paul McAtanus, '34. Fox & Hounds Club. Boston. Mass.. Secretary. 
BUFFALO 
George E. Doyle. Jr., '30, Liberty Bank Bldg.. President: Robert Measer, '34, Am­herst Bee Co.. Main & Rock Sts.. Williams-ville, N. Y.. Secretary. 
CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-Ill.) 
Frank J. Galvin. '23. First Trust Bldg., Hammond. President; Fred J, Solman, Jr., '28. 57.';2 Erie Ave.. Hammond. Secretary. 
CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) Edward J. Eckert. '33, 5 Lawnridge Ave.. Albany, President: H. V. Canavan, '28. 254 Patridge St., Albany, Secretary. 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dr. E. J. Hermes. '16. 1010 Oakland St., 
Lansing. President: J. Harvey Gauthier, '30, Bark River, Mich.. Secretary. 

CENTRAL NEW JERSEY Anthony V. Ceres. '28, Perth Amboy Nat'l. Bank Bldg., Perth Amboy, President: John Lisicki. '31, 215 Water Street. Perth Amboy, Secretary. 
CENTRAL OHIO Raymond J. Eichenlaub. *15, Hosier Realty Bldg.. Columbus, President. 
CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA 
William J. McAleer. '31. 1518 19th Avenue. 
Altoona. Pa., President: Edward F. Lee. 
'31. 210 13th Street. Altoona. Pa.. Secre­
tary. 

William E. Cotter, '13, New Yorlt City Harry F. Kelly, '17, Detroit, Michigan Charles A. Mooney, Jr., '26. Cleveland, Ohio James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame 
William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame James E. Deery, '10, Indianapolis, Ind Don P. O'Keete, '03, Detroit. Michigan Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark. New Jersey Francis H. McKeever, '03, Chicago, Illinois Arthur J. Hughes, 'I I,Chicago, Illinois To be elected—Member of 1937 Class 
District Governors* and Lieutenant Governors 1937-38 
The 7937-1938 Board 
Very Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C, '88, Notre Dame, Ind Honorary President 
 President  First Vice-President  Second Vice-President  Secretary-Treasurer  Assistant Secretary  Director to 1938  Director to 1939  Director to 1940  Director to 1941  Director to 1938 (ex-offlcio)  Director to 1938 

1.—No. Indiana and Southwestern Michigan: 
A. GORDON TAYLOR. '18, LaPorte, Indi­ana; JOSEPH P. DONAHUE, '11, South Bend, Indiana. 
2.—ChicaKO: JOHN M. MONTAGUE. '23, Chicaeo, Illinois: EDWARD W. GOULD, "23, Chicago, Illinois. 
3.—Ohio. W. Pennsylvania and West Va.: OTIS S, WINCHESTER. '29, Qeveland, Ohio: EDWARD C. BYRNES, '25, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
4.—^Minnesota, Wisconsin, Northern Mich.: HAROLD WATSON. '25, Minwaukee, Wis.: JOHN YELLAND, "30, >nnncapolis, Minn. 
5.—Michigan (ctcept the U.P. and S.W.) : JOSEPH J. NORTON. '24. Detroit. Michigan: HON. JOSEPH SANFORD, '21, Muskegon, Mich. 
6.—^New Jersey, Delaware, Md.. East Pa., 
D.C:
 JAMES D. HAYES, '17, Washington, D.C.: ROBERT PHELAN, '22, East Orange, 

N.
 J. 


7.—New York City: HENRY R. FREY, 'SO; LEO V. MCLAUGHLIN, '32. 
8.—New York. (e-Tcept New York City) : JOHN G. BYRNE, '23. Buffalo, New York: THOMAS V. DOLLARD.'21. Troy, New York. 
9.—New England: WALTER J. STAPLE­TON. '24, Bridgeport, Conn.: ROBERT W. POWERS, '29. Providence. R. I. 
10.—Virginia. No. and So. Carolinas: THOMAS A. DAFFRON, '30, Richmond, Va.: REV. THOMAS MACKIN, '15, Spartans-burg, S. C. 
11.—Alabama. Georgia and Florida: JO­SEPH E. FITZPATRICK. '25, Miami, Fla.: CHARLES POWERS, '31, Savannah, Ga. 
• The governor is the first name in each 

12.—Kentucky. So. Ind.. Tenn.: JAMES A. McKEE, '93, VersaUles, Ky.; MARION HEF­FERNAN, '28, LouiavUIe. 
13.—La., Miss., and Ark.: WILLIAM H. MILLER. '30. Vicksburg, Miss.: CHARLES OE LA VERGNB, '25, New Orleans. 
14.—Texas: M. K WALTER. '14, Houston, Te-tas; CLYDE E. BROUSSARD, '13. Be«u­mont, Te:ca9. 
15.—Kan., Mo., Okla.. So. Dl.: DANIEL P. FOLEY. '23, Ft Leavenworth, Kan.: N. F. SCHWARTZ, '33. Salina. Kan. 
16.—No. HI.. Iowa. Nebraska: J. HENRY FANNAN. '24. Rockford. H. : ELMER J. MOHAN, '17, Strcator, DL 
17.-Mont., Wyo.. No. and So. Dak.: LEO 

F. CRAIG, '04. Sioux Falls, S. Dak.: ROB­ERT CUMMINS. "26, Mandan, N. Dale 
18.—Utah and Colorado: R.\YMOMD If. HZraiPHREYS, '17, Denver. Coin.; ROBERT 
A. DICK. '29, Denver. 
19.—So. Calif.. N. Mel.. Ariz.. W. Texas: ANTON R. HEBENSTREIT. '11. Albuouer­que. N. Mex.: TERENCE B. COSGROVE. '06, Los Angeles. 
20.—No. Cal and Nevada: ROYAL BOSS­HARD. '17. San Francisco, Calif.; BERNARD 
J. ABROTT, '27, San Francisco. 
21.—Wash.. Ore., and Idaho: NATT Mc-DOUGAL. '00. Portland. Ore.; EMMETT LENIHAN. '17, SeatUe. Wash. 
22.—Foreign: C. C. FITZGERALD, '94, Havana. Cuba: ANTONIO ROXAS, •21. Manila, P. L 
 case. 
15th ANNUAL 
U.N. D Nisht 
APRIL 25 
REMEMBER TO: 
 Have a meeting of some kind. 
2 , Invite persons who, though not 

former students, have a close as­sociation with Notre Dame, such as, honorary degree holders, Laetare Medalists, priests, teachers, fathers of present students, prospective stu­dents and their fathers, coaches, newspaper men, radio men. 
3 , Invite campus speakers early. 
4 , Arrange, if possible, a local radio program. 
5^ Have adequate and consistent publicity in the local press. 
^^ Watch the next ALUMNUS for further details on the Night 
You can, of course, apply these su^esdons to your own club ter­ritory according to .local condi­tions. Tbe all-important thing is to start at once to make your plans (if you haven't already started). The Alumni Office will be delisted to help you wherever and whenever it can. 

CHICAGO 
Francis J. Odcrich. Jr.. '32. 864 Larrabee 
St.. Chicago, President; George A. Brauti­
gan, '29. Il l W. Wasliinston St., Chicago. 
Secretao'. 

At a meeting of the executive board the date of the annual meeting of the club was chosen as February 8, at the Knickerbocker Hotel. Tighe Woods, who has heretofore earned a fine reputation for putting over af­fairs in fine fashion, was selected as chairman for the evening's entertain­ment. Advance rumor has it that the attendance will be far greater than any in the past. Many notables will attend. 
The evening also marks the annual election of officers. After a caucus of the nominating committee, there was reported to me a selection of men who are to act as officers and governors of the club for 1938, as follows: 
John F. O'Connell, judge of the probate court, honorary president; Francis F. McCurrie, president; James T. Igoe, Jr., first vice-presi­dent; Thomas C. Donovan, second \ice-president; Edwin Leo Ryan, sec­retai-j'; William J. Drennan, treas-U2-er; Edward W. Gould, board of governors; Tighe A. Woods, board of governors; George A. Brautigam, board of governors. 
This year's election of officers also puts into effect one of the changes of the constitution of the club, that is: the first vice-president elected this year will automatically become pres­ident of the club for the year 1939, and next year, a first vice-president shall be elected instead of a presi­dent. 
I also want to reiterate at this time another provision of the consti­tution in regard to independent nom­inations, which reads as follows in section four: "Independent nomina­tions for any one or more offices may be made by a petition of twenty-five or more members whose current dues are paid, such petitions must be re­ceived by the Secretary of the Club at least seven days prior to the An­nual Meeting." 
It is sincerely urged that this date be set aside from your otherwise crowded calendar, and that you all appear in person and lend a vote of thanks for the fine work done by Francis J. Oelerich, our retiring pres­ident, and the men that assisted him in keeping the club out in front dur­ing 1937. In so doing you will of necessity encourage the incoming of­ficers to carry on in promoting the club to one that will stand second to none in the city. • 
Do not forget this occasion. — The Knickerbocker Hotel, Tuesday, Feb­ruary 8, 1938, at 6:30 P.M. 
George A. Brauttgam. 

CINCINNATI 
Franli H. Sweeney, e.t. '17. Kemper Lane 
Hotel. President: Clarence Brinlc. '31, 1306 
Grycr Ave.. Hyde Park, Secretarj-. 

Elmer Layden was to be the guest of the club at a large and important dinner-meeting on January 21. The details of the gathering ^vill appear in the next issue of the .4.LUJINUS. 
CLEVELAND George Kerver, '20, President; Cornelius J. Ruffing. '32, 308 Euclid Bldg., Secretary. Richard Hyde. '35, 678 2Cth Street, Sec-What a hodge-podge of items this month and not a headline story in the lot! Odd how this N.D. crowd steers clear of murder, child marriages and senate investigations! Alas, no head­line news is the holiday dance report, despite intensive work by committee­men and their wives, despite the fuct that it was a truly fine paity and even despite the antics of an amateur photographer. Co - chairmen Mat t Trudelle and John Begley merit ac­claim for their good work. 
The annual Retreat sponsored by the Notre Dame Club has in the past been so well received by both N.D. men and others that plans this year are for two groups, each to have a three-day session at St. Stanislaus novitiate in nearby Parma. Group one will meet the first week-end of Lent, March 4, 5 and 6, and Group two will follow the week-end later, March 11, 12 and 13. One should need no persuasive sales talk; the whole idea is sound in both spiritual and recreational values. Both Tom Byrne and Jerry Reidy, co-chairmen of the committee are at work pro­viding for advanced resen'ations and assuring capacity attendance. That event can't escape success. 
Al Thomas, Lorain lawyer, spends. a couple of days per week in Marty Rini'» office here. Classifying the paragraph: Judge Frank Celebreeze has heavy responsibilities at the county prosecutor's office in the ab­sence of Chief CuUitan. Joe Sweeny, of the firm of Connell, Todia, Fleger & Sweeny, broke into print the other day in connection with what prom­ises to be one of the season's out­standing trials. 
In checking over federal court dockets you'll see evidence of Ray 

T. Miller's activity at the bar. Few in Cleveland match Frank Cull's trial technique, but there are the many who try. But moving farther into the yellow pages, there's Dr. Ebner in the Republic Building and Dr. Dolly Gannon has opened offices out in Newburgh. Dr. Mike Crawford has signed for more special work as resident at St. John's Hospital. 
Still at Central National are Phil Ceogbegan, Ed Gongh, Ed Hogan, Cecil Hobert and Ralph Huller; gone from the bank to Columbus and the insurance business is Tom Enright. 

Correction on last month's report of Howy Miller: Employment, O.K., 
U.S. Truck Line; married, no. Some­one said Harry Black is with CCC trucking? 
By the way over at Ohio Bell Tele­phone are five: Tom Byrne, Rocco Perone, Jim Uprichard, Gene Milliff and Norm McLeod. 
Along with holding a responsible job at the State Highway Depart­ment, Frank Svaboda continues his law studies. In Cleveland with Ee­public Steel is Ray (Bucky) Dahman; also new to the city is Carrol Staley working for Proctor and Gamble. Danny O'Brien is back in town after a year divided between Dayton and Chicago. Also back but not for long was Johnny Penote. 
John Malousek reports that Frank Denny, '32, has left Chicago, the South and the chain store business for advertising work on the West Coast. 
Hugh McManigal writes that his work with the SoIIitt Construction Company will very likely take him on the campus again this spring in the building of the Rockne Memorial. At present Hugh's with that company in Elkhart, Indiana. 
Who's heard from George CuUinan who left Cleveland last winter for Hongkong? 
With Otis Winchester and Jack Collins trj'ing to turn up something in the way of a pre-Lenten social event; and Karl Martersteck trying to get those cards in with vital sta­tistics of the membership; and Clayt Leroux interested in those member­ship dues, due and needed, there may be headline news next month. 
Nick Ruffing. 

CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
•William A. Hurley, '28. 70 Montrose St.. SprinKfield, Mass.. President: Francis A. Aheam. '27, c-o Hartford Times, Hartford, Gonn.. Secretari-. 
DALLAS James P. Swift. '24. 1202 Southwestern Life BIdf:., Dallas. President: Francis A. McCul­louKh. '30. 917 First National Bank Bids., Dallas, Secretary. 
DAYTON 
Euffene Mayl, '24, 400 Irvinjr Ave., Presi­
dent : William Cronin. '29, 418 Crafton Ave., 
Secretary. 
DENVER 
Rohert A. Dick. '29. 930 Marion Street. 
Telephone Bids-. President; Harry Lawrence. 
'29, 1932 Broadway. Secretary. 
DETROIT 
Lincoln Wurzer, '35, 758 Atkinson, Presi­
dent; Arthur D. Cronin, '37, 19160 Wood­
ston Road, Secretary. 
At the January meeting held at the University Club there were about 27 loyal members present, among whom was the inspirational alumnus, David Van Wallace. 
President Wurzer called the meet­

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ing to order and asked if members wished to renew the lecture series, to which Charley Martin suggested that the lecture series be passed inasmuch as so few attended last year. Mr. Wurzer suggested that, in place of the lecture series, we bring the Glee Club during Easter vacation. The members heartily agreed to this. 
Harry Kelly was called upon to give a few words on the Retreat at Manresa. The Thursday after Ash Wednesday was decided upon as the date for this event, and seven have already expressed their desire to go. One of the members suggested that the dinner meetings be held only twice a month because of these try­ing times and that an informal meet­ing be held on the other two Mon­days. A questionnaire is to be sent to all the members to get their ex­pression regarding the change. 
The guest speaker of the evening was Lou "Red" Salmon, who is chief engineer of the S. A. Healy Co. in Detroit. Lou gave us some very in­teresting reminiscences of his early days at Notre Dame and a compari­son of the first days of football with the modem game. 
The Februaiy meeting is set aside as Dad's Night at which we hope to have all the fathers of the boys at­tending the University present. Efforts are being made to obtain the pictures of last year's games and to get Herb MendoUohn, the owner of the Gold Cup champion, "Notre Dame," as our guest. 
Art Cronin. 

DES MOINES Henry I. Trenkle. '21. 180 South Booth St.. Secretary. 
DUBUQUE 
C. L Krajewski. '16, 321 Bank & Insurance Bide. President: Henry I. Trenkle. "24, 180 
S. Booth St.. Secretary. 
EASTERN INDIANA Thomas A. Cannon. '33, 401 Wysor Bids.. Muncie. Ind.. President; Alvis E. Granser, ex. '31. 617 S. JclTcrson St., Hartford City. Ind.. Secretary. 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA Leo R. Mclntyrc. '28, Bethlehem, President; Ernest L. Wilhelm. '27, New Jersey Zinc Co., Research Dcpt., Palmerton, Secretary. 
ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA Charles J. Wiltman. '31, 621 Schenlcy Dr., President: Willi.nm K. B.iyer. '36. 724 W. 10th St.. Secretary. 
FLINT (Michigan) Stephen J. Roth, '31, 723 Union Industrial Bids.. President; Donald F. MacDonald, '31, 1631 \V. Court St.. Secretary. 
FORT WAYNE, INDIANA Edward S. Sullivan. '24, 123 E. Suttenfield St.. President: Maurice J. DeWald, '33, 2415 Huburtus, St.. Sccrotarj-. 
GOGEBIC RANGE Francis J. Vukovich. '35, Ridge St., Iron­wood, Mich., President; John C. Sullivan, '22. 10 Newport Heights. Ironwood, Mich., Secretary. 
Although our membership is rather small, we were able during the past few months to hold several meetings. 
The St. Mary's club has joined •with ours so that we are able to enjoy a fair attendance at each session. 
On December 27, 1937 our annual Christmas banquet was held at the Iron Inn in Ironwood, Michigan. Through the co-operation of the St. Mary's club, we were able to get to­gether 18 persons. Among those present were Mr. and Mrs. Victor Lemmer, Mr. and Mrs. Robert O'Cal­lahan, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Vukovich, 
(this union came about on August 30, 1937), Joan Joyce and guest, D. O'Brien, (a Dartmouth man), Mar­garet Petrusha and guest, J. Joyce, (a Marquette man), Thomas Mc-Kevitt, who was spending his Christ­mas vacation at home for the first time in several years; Rev. Nolan McKevitt, Jim Jones, '36, J. C Sulli­van, Robert Sullivan, '36, Eddie Sim­onicb and guest, Cecile La Forge, Ed Doyle, '41. Mr. McKevitt, who gradu­ated in 1934, is at the present time with the Department of Justice at Washington, D. C,. and during the course of the evening we received some very interesting information concerning this department as well as the status of the Notre Dame Club at Washington, D. C. 
At the close of the meeting elec­tion of officers was held. Frank Vuk­ovicb, '35, became president, and John C. Sullivan became secretary. Mr. Sullivan's address is 10 Newport Heights, Ironwood, Michigan. 
Our club has resolved to become more active in the new year. We only hope that the acti^vities •will prove beneficial to the school, the associa­tion and to us. 
Frank Vukovich. 

GRAND RAPIDS 
Earl Leach. '29. 641 E. Leonard St. Presi­
dent : A. John Alt. ex. '34, 628 Turner Ave., 
Secretary. 

The Grand Kapids dub of Notre Dame held the second meeting since reorganization in its dnbrooms in the Pantlind Hotel Monday night, Decem­ber 20. Besides some 20-odd mem­bers, the local students now attend­ing the University were guests. 
At this meeting the following ofii­cers were elected for the coming year. Earl Leach, president; John Withey, •vice-president; Joseph Deeb, treasurer; A. John Alt, secretary; and Jack McElwee and John Flana­gan, in charge of publicity. 
The members that attended ranged from graduates in the early 1900*3 to members who just completed their education at Notre Dame. 
The aim of the club at the present time is merely to keep the fellows to­gether and to promote good •wQI. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus February, 1938 
Dances, and other social activities, are planned for the future. 
Included in the present plans is a welcoming luncheon which is being planned for Elmer Layden, Joseph Zwers, retiring captain of the foot­ball team and a Grand Rapids boy, and Andy Puplis, when they arrive in Grand Rapids, January 25, to ad­dress the annual football banquet for the local Catholic high school. 
John Flanagan. 

GREATER LOUISVILLE 
John Bannon, '32. 2011 Sherwood Ave 
Louisville, President: Raymond Naber. '33, 
417 S. Western Parkway, Louisville, Secre­
tnry. 
The club on December 29 gave its annual Christmas dance at the Brown Hotel with Garth House and his or­chestra furnishing the music. We had as guests for the evening the students who were home for the holi­daj's. A large ovation was given to Col. Frank Fehr, a member of Notre Dame's first football team. In every way the dance was a huge success. 
Since the last issue of the ALUM­NUS we have had the following alum­ni become members of our club: A. 
E. Saleh, '34, M. B. Rodin, '34, H. W. Grubb, '36, and P. J. Martersteck, '34. They are connected with Joseph 
E. Seagram Sons, Inc. 
Marns Pope, William Bosler, John Bannon and company have been do­ing a nice bit in financing their way for the late hours they have been keeping. This is much to the SOITOWS of Emil Peters, Ray Naber and com­pany. 
We will have another get-together in the next month. Ray Naber. 
GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN 
John Clancj-, cs. '33, 525 S. Qay Street, 
Secretary. 
HAMILTON, OHIO 
M. O. Bums, '86. 338 S. Second St, Presi­
dent ; Marc A. Fiehrer, '27, 701 Rentschler 
Bid};., Secretary. 
HARRISBURG 
Joseph FarrcII, '15, 32 North 27th Street, 
Camp Hill, Pa.. President: Robert M. John­
ston. '33, City Chemist, Harrisburfr, Pa., 
Secretary. 
HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.) 
Joseph A- Lauerman. '31, 1975 Riverside 
Ava, Marinette, Wis., President; Francis C. 
Boyce, ex. *32. 1401 First Ave., S., Esca­
naba, Mich.. Secretarj'. 
HOUSTON 
M. B, Walter, '14, 1702 Stuart Ave., Presi­
dent: Raymond B. Keating, '35, 1810 Ster­
ling Bide., Secretary. 
INDIANAPOLIS William H. KricK, '29. SS58 Forest Lane, 
President: Francis Laydcn, '36. Indiana 
Bell Telephone Company, Secretary. 
I'll start from the beginning. We had a very successful drive to raise money for our scholarship fund. Mike Fox headed the committee and was ably assisted by a committee of 10 others. Miss Bernice McWhirter, sold by C. E. Mason, won the prize. We cleared a couple of hundred dollars. 
The boys from school held the an­nual dinner dance at Christmas time. The highlight of the evening was the Big Apple Dance, in which everyone joined. It was a rip-snorting affair attended by 150 couples. 
The Glee Club's appearance here December 8 completes the activity list. They were well received by 1500 people. Its performances like Professor Casasanta and the boys put out that night that help the popu­larity of the school and its members immeasui-ably. President Krieg and a few of the boys did the honors for the club in taking the group to din­ner before they did their stuff. 
Mike Layden. 

JACKSON, MICHIGAN 
Walter Ducey. '17, 339 W. Morrell St., Pres­
ident: Edward T. O'Neil. "26. Wildwood 
Apts., Socretarj*. 
JOLIET, ILLINOIS 
Dr. Edward J. Mayer. '27, 301 Ruby St., 
President: Lawrence J. Dunda, ex. '33. 704 
N. Raynor Ave., Secretary. 
KANSAS Albert J. Gebert. '30, U. of Wichita, Wich­
ita, Kansas, President: Dan Welchons, '30. 
623 Elm St., Ottawa. Kansas, Secretary. 
KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) Robert Tyler, '29, 3616 Paseo Blvd., Kansas City, Mo., President: Charles E. Meyer. '29, 420 E. Armour Blvd., Knns.is City, Mo., Secretao'. 
I am carrying on for dear old AUis-Chalmers and managing to swing a deal here and there. So far there's no better-half to share the joys and sorrows and that sort of thing, but encoui-aging reception of my modest 
(?) recountings from "Live Alone and Like It" is keeping the ego bol­stered until such a time as when. 
Fred Weiss, '29, is doing a swell job as consulting engineer with E. T. Archer & Co. 
Henry Massman, Jr., '28, is emerg­ing from big government jobs the firm has handled, and will be in the thick of it again, we hope, as success­ful bidder on other jobs. Hank tells us that Joe O'Dowd, '28, victualled the men on the Fort Peck, Montana, job, and is parcelling out vitamins for his firm, Engelmann's, on another big government project. 
John (Rome) Dugan, '27, and Eddie McGrath, ex. '18, were a committee of two who recently entertained Col­onel Fehr, center on the first N. D. team, during his visit to K. C. 
Charles Meyer, '29, is telling 'em and selling 'em at Burnap & Meyer; overhearing a conversation at lunch recently and the mention of Corby led to meeting W. C. McCarthy, '31, and Jerry Davey, '37, both of whom are distributing kilowatts for the Kansas City Power & Light Co. 
Received Christmas cards from Agnes and Rocco Perone, '29, (A. T. & T., Cleveland), Lucille and Victor Trapp, ex. '29, (Wallin Motor Co., Louisville, Ky.), Phyllis and Charles Schutty, '29, (Allis-Chalmers, Spring­field, Illinois), and Bernard Peele, '41, a cousin from Chicago. 
Porter Wittich, ex. '27, is keeping the sport-minded miners of Joplin, Missouri, abreast of the times with his interesting column, "The Globe Trotter," in the Joplin Globe-Neios. Ralph Nolan, '28, is managing the Joplin airport and is reported to be something of a budgeteer. Haven't seen Maurice Carroll, '19, in many a Charley McCarthy moon, and suppose that he will be increasingly on the go now that the Rockne Memorial is under way. 
Judge Thomas V. Holland, '17, is pouring it on offending motorists as 
K. C. strives to safetyize its streets. Often see Waller Kennedy, '28, who swims and works out in our sports department. Dr. D. M. Nigro set something of a record in mileage while following football teams this past season, and received quite a bit of publicitj"' in local papers for his -411-Italian All--A.merican selections (yes, several of our "fighting Irish" were included). Gene Vanden Boom, '21, has modernized the entire front of his furniture store and is doing a grand business in keeping with his progressive ideas. No news of Dan Foley, '23, but he's probably doing things in Leavenworth, Kansas. 
Marty Peters and Don Elser are developing a splendid Physical Edu­cation department at St. Benedict's College, -A.tchison, and their athletic teams have all the fight and pepper which were characteristic of those of their predecessor. Moon Mullins. Marty won a national coaches' award for the sobbinest weepinest of the season—says he can use the equip­ment that came with the prize and is practicing gi'oans for next year. 
Ed Bartley, '30, is in the steam turbine department of our Milwaukee factory, and his velvet diplomacy is soothing the crowded shop foreman's ire and quieting the insistent de­mand for better deliveries from the sales force. Surely was pleased to hear that Larry Stauder, '29, is on the Engineering faculty, and wonder if he's assigning the stiff duties we all grudingly performed (when we weren't griping about the food or sumpin') under the revered Dr. 
Caparo. 
Henry E. Weiss is now managing the Allis-Chalmers sales office at Buffalo, N. Y.; the fine impression he left among customers in this territory has made it easier for yours truly. 
Howard Doll, '29, was out of town when I called at his office in Chicago; probably doing a successful job for General Electric (dam 'em). Under­stand that Walter Mason, '29, is in the Officers Reserve Air Corps and has carte blanc on his comings and goings in Army airplanes. Nice work if you can get it, eh? Congratula­tions to Louis Buckley, '28, and he might tell the rest of us how to get endowed. 
Jack Donahue. 

The Knute Rockne Club, sponsored by Dr. D. M. Nigro, will, in accord­ance with its custom, go to Bazaar, Kansas (the place of Rock's death), on March 4 (his birthday) for a me­morial service. Included in the plans are a Mass, dinner and a talk by a prominent person. 
Bob Brenton, captain and center of the Central High School football team in Kansas Citj-, will receive for the 1937 season the Nigro-Notre Dame trophy as the player in the local area who was of most value to his team. 
LA PORTE, INDIANA 
Norman E. Duko. "34. 304 Nilos St. Presi­
dent: Robert E. Quinn, ex. '36, 1401 Monroe 
St.. Secretary. 
LOS ANGELES 
Douirlas Dniey, '30. 7S1 Ceres Ave.. Presi­
dent; Tliomaa Ashe, 7110 Middleton St., 
Secretary, 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
p. E. Burke, '8S. 307 Ciiinp SL, New Or­leans, La., President: Cyprian A. Sporl, Jr., '28, Whitney-Central Bldi;., New Orleans. La., Secretary. 
MANILA Alfonso Ponce Emilc. '05, Manila. Presi­dent; Gonznio R. Vnldcs. '35. "09 San Mar­celino. Secretary-
MEMPHIS 
Galvin Hudson. '15, Parkview- Hotel, Presi­
dent: Bailey Walsh, ex. '27, Columhian Mu­
txial Tower, Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of Memphis held its annual holiday banquet on December 30, at the Claridge Hotel, and we had 35 members of the club present. During the course of the dinner, much talk was heard about Notre Dame, past, present and fu­ture, and the banquet wound up a tremendous success. 
At the conclusion of the dinner, the officers for the year 1938 were elected, and the officers were felici­tated for their splendid work during the year 1937. 
John Montedonico was president of the club for the year 1937, and too much credit cannot be given to him for his inspiration leadership, in the re-building of the club. Other offi­cers for the year 1937 were Frenchy Dohogne, secretary and treasurer; and T. A. Canale, vice-president. These boys likewise did a good job. 
The new officers of the club elected are Galvin Hudson, president; Don­nell McCormick, vice-president; Bailey Walsh, secretary; and Charlie Schaf­fler, treasurer. 
Mr. Hudson, after taking the chair as president, outlined a new policy for the club for the forthcoming year, and stated that he hoped to have monthly luncheon meetings at the Catholic Club here in Memphis, and that also we would have at least quarterly meetings of the Notre Dame club. 
Bailey Walsh. 

MIAMI, FLORIDA 
Vincent C. Giblin. '18, 4103 Collins Ave., 
^liami Beach, President: Daniel J. Lino, ex. 
"34. 1617 N. W. Ninth Ave., Miami, Secre­
tary, 
MILWAUKEE John Claudcr. '34, 1219 Vliet St.. President: John Jaeger. '33, 1628 W. Wisconsin Ave., jrilwaukoe. Secretary. Milwaukee's Notre Dame Club has just closed its most successful year. We've enjoyed everything in the way of activities from Tom Kelly's picnic to a midsummer get-together at Pe­waukee Lake. Prexy Clauder was able to put over a Football Rally (at which four tickets to the Minnesota-Notre Dame were given away), a dinner and several meetings. The club's headquarters are now estab­lished in Milwaukee's Hotel Mai-j'­land whose manager, Nolan Kenney, has been a perfect host. Our weekly luncheons at the Maiyland have been excellent and for its 1937 theme song the club has adopted "No Regrets." 
Back from three months in Europe is Johnny Brust whose scholarship took him to Liverpool, Berlin, Rome and Paris and brought him back to Milwaukee mustached. Bill Collins is now associated with Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Company and covers the entire State of Wisconsin to fea­ture a retirement income plan. Harry Langdon is now living in Milwaukee and represents the Dictagraph Cor­poration. Dictaphone's Larry Enright turned out to be a bad Santa Claus— he left gifts for the entire family in his steno's locked desk on Christmas Eve. 
John Hacker, '36, dropped in to have Inch at the Maryland last Thurs­day. John Clauder and Paula Parker (golfer par excellence) will march toward the altar Saturday morning. May 14. On completion of his secre­tarial course Jim Corrigan learned that at least 50 names were missing from the list of members. If you aren't receiving notices drop Jim a line in care of the Maryland. AI Schumacher came up to Milwaukee from Marietta, Georgia, for the holi­days—guess those Southern girls lack black hair and sparkling brown eyes and the real Christmas spirit. Right, Al? Bert Maloney is now referred to as "that fat fellow." 
Three Catholic University men. 
Jack Lee, Rod Morrissey and Jack Schumacher and a Wisconsin man. Jack Collatin, have been frequenting Notre Dame functions. Jerry "Shorty" Fox has returned to Chilton to take over his father's law practice, and to introduce striped suits and cuban heels to his fellow-townsmen. We haven't seen Father Ed Wagner, club chaplain, since the last fight card at the Milwaukee A.C. Roommate Ed "Bushy" Graham's moods depend en­tirely on the condition of his hammer toe. What has happened to Lucky Strike's Jack Scanlon and Barrister John Burke? 
Marquette has reserved a section in the auditorium for the Notre Dame Club, February 9. (Bob Cahill %vill be glad to know this). We expect more than 100 N. D. men to see the Marquette - Notre Dame basketball game. Plans are under way for the best Universal Notre Dame Night the club has ever had. Prexy Clauder is booking talent, and it looks like we'll hit a new high—^we hope. 
You're all invited to the Thursday luncheons—from 12 till 1—Maryland Hotel. 
"Little Dauhar." 

MONTANA 
Joseph V. Maronick, '32, Box 1792, Great 
Falls, President: Leonard D. Be^an, '33, 
Montana Power Co., Great Falls, Secretary. 
NASHVILLE 
Kennedy Jones, '30, Jones Chemical Co., Secretary. 
NEW JERSEY 
Peter J. Quinn, ex. '33, 320 Belleville Ave., 
Bloomficld, President: Philip Heinle, '35, 76 
Oakview Ave,, Maplevvood, Secretary. 
I will start this letter with a sum­mary of our December meeting, and close it with a review of our January meeting. 
Peter Quinn informed me that the Hard Times Dance and the ticket ac­tivity had both been favorable to the club treasury due to the hard work of the committee in charge. 
Joe Moore told us of his plans for our annual Christmas Dance. His plans worked out great, and the crowd, which surprised all by its size, had a grand time. 
Tom Treacy, who announced his engagement during the holidays, won the door prize, and the meeting ad­journed with the members gathering in groups to talk over "old times." John Newbauer proved most adept at this. 
In January, despite the poor weather conditions, we had a good attendance at the meeting. Our first discussion of the evening had as its purpose the development of a closer relationship between the campus stu­dents of New Jersey and our organi­zation. We are going to place the students on the mailing list of our club paper, the "Jersey Echo," and devote a section of it to them. 
We are already looking forward to Universal Notre Dame Night, and Jack Winberry has been asked to take charge of our aifair that night. Efforts are being made to secure prominent speakers for the evening. 
Ed Kirby, who traveled down to Philadelphia for the Penn-N. D. bas­ketball game, told us about the vic­tory, and -we are all looking forward to seeing the same results against 
N.Y.U. in February. Ray Geiger has been placed in charge of tickets for this game. 
The club has decided to hold a Pre-Lenten Dance on February 12, and Bill Carter has been named as chair­man of the affair. 
Three new members were intro­duced to the club. They were Joe Minarick, Joe Glennon and Bart Kenney. 
Bemie Reilly won the door prize, again, but refused to accept it as he had won three times preWously. 
Here are a few of those I remem­ber seeing at the meetings: Tony Kramer, L. Fish, Jack O'Keefe, Dan O'Neill, Ed Hargan, Jack Blanda, Bill Smullen, Steve Durbin, Tom Flynn, Al Alvino, Jack DriscoU, Walt Matusevicfa, Andy O'Keefe, Jack Rourke, Jim Clark, Ed Shields, Bill Moritz, Mush Rigante, Murray Booth, and Bob McDonough. 
Jim Fagan recently passed the New Jersey Bar examination in his first attempt. 
Bill Smith had a successful team in his first year at coaching the new high school in East Orange. They won five and tied one. 
Pete Quinn and Sonny Church an­nounced their engagements recently. 
Jim Clark is playing an important part in the development of the Jersey City Junior Chamber of Commerce. 
Phil J. Heinle. 

NEW YORK CITY 
Leo V. McLaaghlin, "32. 70 Pine Street, 
New York City, President; Henry R. Frey, 
'30, 1226 Tinton St., N. Y. C, Secretary. 

The annual Christmas Dance of the Metropolitan Club, under the aus­pices of the Notre Dame Club of New York, was one huge success. 
The Hendrick Hudson Room of the Roosevelt Hotel was the center of this activity. Many of the alumni supported the dance and met with pleasure the present New^ York stu­dent body of the University. 
It did not take long for everyone to start swinging. The "Big Apple" was the dance of the evening! With­out exception the gathering entered 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
into the spirit. When it came to "shine" George Ross, '39, Miss Ethel Robertson, Ed Maher, '40, Miss Gerrj' Garvey, John A. Fogerty, '37, and Miss Helen Bransley certainly burned up the lumber. They set a pace that continued all evening. 
Before long Jack Jordan, '32, Miss Williams, and Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Bergen mastei'ed the intricate steps of the new dance craze. They were soon followed by Paul Howe, '32, Vin Doyle, '40, P. Mennich, '40, Bill Tucker, '40, Vince Ryan, '39, V. and 
J. Tangney, '38, V. Traynor, A. Cella, D. Stack, J. Sullivan and T. Pilgram. 
Dancing continued until it became the sad duty of Leo McLaughlin and Doc Gelson to speed the boys on their merry way to school and duty. 
Incidentally, the management con­gratulated the officei's on the dance as one of the most orderly and one of the most delightfully jolly in re­cent years. 
John Balfe introduced James San­ford, '15, at a recent meeting of the club. Judging from the sincer­ity of Jim's remarks, the New York Club is quite the active one. This coming from an alumnus who travels as much as Jim, we are proud indeed! 
Ed Fallon's motion pictures of the 

annual retreat at the Bishop Malloy's 
retreat house, Jamaica, Long Island, 
were shown and much enjoyed. 
The door prizes, which were Glo­

lite cigarette lighters, were won by 
John J. Antus, '28, Phil F. Clark. '31, 
and Joseph W. Schmidt, '36. A bottle 
of Scotch was won by Frank Huis­
king, '37. 
It is inteersting to note that Leo McLaughlin, Warren Fogel; Martin Callagy, president, vice-president and treasurer, respectively, were recently married in that order. Henry Frey, secretary, stands alone—^business re­cession! 
The next big event of the year is 

the Notre Dame-N.Y.U. basketball 
game to be held at Madison Square 
Garden, February 25. All members 
of the Notre Dame Club of New 
York will be sent ticket application 
blanks. Those not receiving these 
blanks will kindly get in touch with 
the secretary Henry R. Frey. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Bernard J. Abrott, *27, Latham Square 
BIdff., Oakland, President: Paul J. Cushini;, 
•31, 1221 Central Bank Bids.. Oakland, Sec­retary. 

NORTHERN LOUISIANA Arthur J. Kane. '31, 307 Wilkinson, Shreve­port. President: J. Richard Nowery, '29, 1624 Creswcll SL, Shreveport, Secretary. 
OKLAHOMA 
Joseph A. Moran, "32, 1611 S. Carson. Tulsa. 
President: Marion J. Blake. '33, National 
Bank of Tulsa Bldg., Tulsa. Secretary. 
February, 1938 
OREGON Charles J. Hirschbuhl. '22, 2130 N. York, Portland, President: Harold J. Harstick, '25, 633 N. E. E%-crett, Portland, Secretary. 
PARIS Louis P. Harl, '16, Paris Office, New York Herald-Tribune, Paris, France, President. 
PEORIA Al Gury, Jr., "28, 530 W. Eichwoods Blvd., President: John Sloan, '33, 233 N. Under-hill. Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of Peoria experienced an eventful holiday sea­son. On December 12 a regular meeting was held at the University Club, one of the best attended we have had in some time. It was cap­ably handled by Bill Motsett. Kenny Jones, sports editor of the Journal-Transcript, gave us some interesting side-lights on the 1937 football sea­son. Father Haddigan ably cham­pioned, the cause of the Church in Russia and in Spain, interspersing his address with actual incidents that occurred in these two countries. Le­land Kramer was appointed chairman of the next meeting. 
Tuesday, December 28, witnessed one of the most successful holiday dances this club has ever sponsored. Al Welzenbach was the capable chair­man, assisted by Art Wiele, Gene White and Dick Delaney. Alumni from Kewanee, Galesburg and Bloomington joined us in this annual cabaret event. The writer was not aware that so many of the members were such capable artists in the exe­cution of the "Big Apple." In fact, there were so many ably versed in the intricacies of its steps that the circle could not be made large enough to accommodate all its ex­ponents. 
John Sloan, Jr. 
PHILADELPHIA 
William E. Cooney. '32, 5725 McMahon 
Ave., President: A. J, \Vackcrman, '33. 
6356 Chew St., Secretary. 
Frank McManus, who is now con­nected with Aetna Life Insurance Company, tells me that Bill Roper, Jr., son of the former Princeton foot­ball coach, who also works for Aetna, wishes to be remembered to Tom Conley, who coached him in end play a few years back. 
The club wishes to thank the Uni­versity officials for permitting Joe Boland to show the pictures of last year's Minnesota game at our last meeting. We were especially pleased with Andy Puplis' blocking, not to mention his runback of punts in that game. 
Frank Carideo was in town with his Mississippi State basketball team last month to receive a set-back from local St. Joseph's College. 
Talk has again started around town concerning the possibility of an Army-Notre Dame game being played in Philadelphia Municipal Stadium, 

which seats about 30,000 more spec­tators than the Yankee Stadium. It has been found satisfactory enough to attract the Army-Navy game for the past few years. 
Saw Leo Keating, of Atlantic City, at the Temple-Stanford basketball game, and he informed me that Jim Leonard is quite pleased with his job as coach and athletic director at St. Francis College in .western Pennsj'l­vania. Leo is doing a little semi-pro basketball playing during the slack business in -Atlantic City. 
A letter from Bethlehem, Penn­sylvania, informs me that a son was born to Mr. and Mrs. William Walsh last fall. Bill claims he has already started training the youngster for his career at N. D. by putting him on one of the blast furnaces at Bethle­hem Steel, where Dad works. 
Engaged: Walter F. Philipp, '31, and Miss ICatherine Eisenhauer, of Clearfield, Pennsylvania. 
Adrian J. Wackerman. 

PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
E. J. llilkcrt. '22. 102 Title & Trust BUlK-Phoenix, President. 
RHODE ISLAND & SOUTH. MASS. 
Thomas Collins. '28. Ifi6 New Boston Ropd. Fall Kiver. Mass.. President: John Mc-LaushUn, *3-l. Sneech Pond Road, Cumber­land Hill, R. I.. Secretary. 
At our annual Christmas Dance, held at the Narragansett Hotel, Prov­idence on December 27, over 50 couples were present and from all in­dications, the affair was a social and financial success. Thanks to Dance Committeemen John McKiernan, Leo IVIcAIoon, Tom Collins, Bob Powers and Tom Murphy. We also wsh to express our thanks to the undergi-ad­uates who cooperated with us for the affair. We sincerely hope they will render their assistance after they have departed from the campus. 
We missed Jack Steele, '34, of Newport. I have been informed that Jack was married last summer. Good luck to him! 
We are beginning to wonder what has happened to John Fagan, '28, and Johnny Brown, '31. We hardly ever see their smiling faces at our socials. Then, too, we would like to see John O'Rourke, '21, Jean Dubuc, '15, Andy McMahon, '35, Mario Nar­done, '28, Graham Norton, and his roommate of the class of '33, Jack Brady, '34, Gus Hampton, of '10. 
Among the old reliables at the dance were: Bob Powers, and Mrs. Powers, Leo McAIoon and his wife, Clement Grimes, and Mrs. Grimes, Tim Sepe and his other half, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Mullen. Then, too, the single men and their escorts were on hand to render their support, namely, Connie Shackett, President Tom 
Powers, John McKiernan and Tom Gammino, '35. Johnny McLaughlin. 
ROCHESTER (New York) 
D. Bernard Hennessey, '34. 119 Bedford St.. President: Gerard Farrcll, '34, 447 Thurston Road, Secretary. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY (Illinois) 
Joseph Bittdorf, e-t. '33, 103 16th St., Ster­ling, 111. President: Ed\vard Sullivan, ex. '33, Amboy, III., Secretary. 
SAN ANTONIO 
William V, Dielmann, Jr.. '25. 107 Thelma Drive. President: Edward G. Conroy, '30, 201 E. CraiB PI.. Secretary. 
SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) 
Thomas F. Van Aarlo, '21, Standard Oil Co., Saginaw, Mich.. President; William C. Hur­ley, '25, 117 Cherry St.. Saginaw, Mich-Secretary. 
SANDUSKY, OHIO 
Charles M. Mouch, '25. 925 W. Washington Street, President; Russell E. Smith, '28, 2117 jSJonroe Su-ect, Secretary. 
The January meeting was held on January 5 at which time the annual election of officers was held, with the following results: Your secretary and correspondent of the past year was honored with the presidency; Attor­ney George A. Wagner was elected vice-president; and Russell Smith, the new secretary - treasurer. C. Faber Donahue was re-elected the honorary president for 193S. 
Committees to serve for the new year will be named before the Feb­ruary meeting. Last yeai''s commit­tees were so co-operative that they may be re-appointed. 
The dub will attend a hockey game at the Cleveland Arena on January 29, and also "inspect the famous Pilsner Gardens" in the same city through the courtesy of our genial member, Joseph Singler. However, I will assure you that club members will not have any "skates" on. 
Incidentally, while attending a sho\\'ing of Sonja Henie and her Ice Carnival in Cleveland recently, I met Albert A. Sommers, '25, who seemed the same old "Ab" of school days. He is now living in Shaker Heights, (sub­urb of Cleveland) and would wel­come a call by any of the old gang or class at any time. 
C. M. Mouch. 

SOUTHWESTERN CONNECTICUT 
John M. Murphy, '27, 86 Liberty St., Bridge­port, President: Edward P. Monahan, '34, 304 Bccchmont Ave., Bridgeport, Secretary. 
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
Charles G. Corcoran. '17, 1134 W. Monroe St.. President: Paul D. McCcmncIl, '32. 120 
S. Walnut St., Secretary. 
We had our monthly luncheon at the K. of C. Club on December 16. The following committee was ap­pointed to make plans for a Christ­mas get-together dinner for the mem­bers and the boys home from school: Oliver Field, Roicoe Bonjean, and Zeke Worthington, from the alumni, and from the students, Amrhein, Cour, Monckton, Wiedloclier from Springfield; Ben Sheridan from Ha­vana, and Chuck Sweeney, Blooming­ton, who, of course, was to be in Cal­ifornia for the East-West game. 
May I express the appreciation of myself and our local club for all of the things you have done for us this past year. 
C. G. Corcoran. 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Louis C. Chaplcau, '30, 301 Union Trust Bldg., South Bend, Ind.. President: Clarence Harding. '25. South Bend Tribune, South Bend, Ind., Secretary. 
ST. LOUIS 
Dr. Matthew W. Weis, ex. '23, 330 Metro­politan Bids., President: David J. Rielley, Jr., '30, 214 Meramec, Oayton, Mo., Sec­retary, 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 
Donald Sheehy, '33, 104 Glahn Ave., Syra­cuse, President: William S. Catc. '27, 136 Harding Place, Syracuse, Secretary. 
TIFFIN, OHIO 
C. J. Schmidt. '11, 260 Melmore St, Presi­dent; Fred J. Wagner, *29. 152 Sycamore St.. Secretary. 
TOLEDO 
Edward J. Hagerty, '28, 636 Woodvnlc, President: Ra>-mond L. Tillman, '25, 2027 Bretton PI., Secretary. 
TRI-CITIES (Illinois-Iowa) 
George Uhlmcycr. '23. Peoples' Light Co.. Moline, HI.. President: Elmer W. Bcsten, '27, 1711 W. Sixth St.. Davenport, Iowa. Secretary. 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York 
John Donnelly. *34, 37 Washington Street, Binghamton, President: John Murphy, '35, 43 Knecland Ave., Binghamton, Secretary. 
TRI-STATE (Ind.-III.-Ky.) 
E. Brown JliHer, '24. Southern Commercial Corp., Citizens Bank Bldg.. Evansville. Ind.. President: Dr. Wm. J. Endress, '25, 301 Grant Street, Evansville. Ind.. Secretary. 
TUCSON, ARIZONA 
Vincent Hengesbach, ex. '27. 1710 E. 2nd St. Tucson. President: Ted A. Witz. ex. '29. Box 628, Tucson, Secretary. 
TWIN CITIES (MinnesoU) 
Gerald F. Conway. '32. David, Inc. First National Bank Bldg.. St. Paul. President: 
A. K. Sullivan. '27. 264 Lowry Medical Arts Bldg„ S t Paul. Secretary.. 
UTAH 
Raymond R. Brady, '24, 206 Keams Bid e Salt Lake City, President; Cyril Harbccke, '19, 64 F. St, Salt Lake City, Secretary. 
UTICA, NEW YORK 
Dr. John F. Kelley, '22, Peoples Gas & Elec­tric Bldg.. President: Joseph W. Fullem, '31, 1621 Ncilson St, Secretary. 
WABASH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Paul Kennedy. '24, Templeton. Ind.. Presi­dent; Emmett Ferguson. '32, Wallace Bide., Lafayette. Ind.. Secretary. 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Robert Cavimaueh, '36, 4450 Volta Place, 
N. W., President: Hurray A. BOSMII. Jr.. ex. '32, 1770 Columbia Rd., N.W.. Secretary. 
We met at the Occidental Hotel on the evening of December 15, for the purpose of electing officers. Paul Beretz presided, accepting nomina­tions for the various posts. After a spirited session, in which a number of favorites were named and landed by their snpporters, t"he elections were finally held with the following results: Robert CaTanangh, '36, pres­
ident; Ralph Zimmerman, '29, vice-president; Murray Russell, '32, sec­retary; Andrew Auth, '34, treasurer. 
In addition to the officers, the ad­visory council was appointed, to be composed of James D. Hayes, Arthur 
J. (Dutch) Bergman, and Frederick William Wile. 
After the installation of the new officers, Ambrose O'Connell had a very important message concerning Universal Notre Dame Night. All present were highly enthusiastic over the prospects of the Washington club sponsoring this event. Charlie Farris aptly expressed the sentiments of the group by his remarks as to what Notre Dame has meant to him, and his feeling that all the local N. D. men owed the movement their whole­hearted support. 
In addition to the activities going on in preparation for Universal Notre Dame Night on April 25, the new of­ficers are working out a full program for the coming year, with the next meeting to be a smoker at the Occi­dental Hotel, scheduled for January 
17. On February 21 we will have a dinner-dance at the Shoreham, and on March 20 (Sunday) a Commun­ion-breakfast. Congressman Vince Harrington, '25, will be the chief speaker. 
Murray Russell. 
WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT John Robinson, •28. 32 Farmington Ave.. President: James M. Monagtian. '27, 44 Ayer St., Secretary. 
WEST VIRGINIA Vincent Reishman. *35. 1217 Lewis St., Charleston. President: William Kenney, *34, 714 State St, Charleston, Secretary. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
D. M. "Turk" Meinert, '28, 85 Grand Ave., Ktna. Pa., President: Bernard \V. Conroy, '30, 1109 Kenneth Ave., New Kensington, Pa., Secretary. 

Chairman John Ryan put over a very good dance on New Year's, and everyone had a swell time. It was held at the Long Vue Country Club this year. 
On Januarj' 11, George Schill took charge of a dinner honoring two of our prominent members who recently won political campaigns in the City of Pittsburgh. John J. Kennedy, '09, is now one of our judges, and Jim O'TooIe is president of the city coun­cil, a rare honor for a young man. 
After the dinner both O'Toole and Kennedy made short speeches, and we also had a few words from Mr. O'Toole, the father of seven gradu­ates of N. D. (We hope Bob will be one this year.) Then we all enjoyed movies of the Ohio State and Pitt games. 
The fellows who were on hand for the dinner included: Vince Burke, Smokey Coyne, John Ryan, Dr, O'Donnell, who recently became a member of the staff at Mercy Hospi­
tal, Dr. Dick O'Toole, Vince and 
Clem Sweeney, Jim Devlin, John Bri­
ley, John W. McGowan, the Director 
of the N.Y.A. in -Allegheny County, 
John Breslin, Hugh Boyle, John 
O'Connor, Tom Havican, Jack 
Sheedy, Bill Steitz, Turk Meinert, 
Fritz Wilson, Ed Byrnes, Al Diebold, 
Jr., Frank and Martin McSorley, Lou 
Walsh, Ed Nebel, Pinky Martin and 
his brother Don, Larry O'Donnell, 
John Reardon, Ray Black, Bob 
O'Brien, Ed O'Brien (the proud fa­
ther of a girl, Janet Mary, on the 
2nd of January), and Bill, Chuck, 
John, and Larry O'Toole. 
The next event on the program is the Annual Retreat at St. Paul's Monaster}' on Januarj' 21. 
.A.nd, of course, as this is written we are all planning to be on hand to see the basketball game between Keo­gan's men and Pitt on he 18th of this month. 
Dick O'Donnell is taking Miss Winny Kane of Aliquippa, Pennsyl­vania, for his bride on January 31. Dick has been working for the state in Harrisburg. 
Bernie Conroy. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON James M. Phelan, ex. '17, University of WashinRton. Seattle. President: Emmett G. Lcnihan, '15, 1405 Hogc Bide, Seattle. Secretary. 
WHEELING, WES T VIRGINIA Ralph Jorden, '2S, Bridgeport, Ohio, Presi­dent: Leo J. Kletzlj-, '31, 10 Zone St., A\Tieennj:, Secretary. 
WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME Sister Elizabeth Seton. S.C., Saint Mary's College, Holy Cross, Ind., President: Sister 
M. Angelice. B.V.M.. St. Joseph Convent, Mt. Carmel, Dubuque, Imva, Secretary. 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
John Moran, '29, 1348 Quinn, President: 
Charles Cushwa, '31, 463 Madera Ave., 
Secretary. 
BULLETIN! 
For the benefit of alumni and those friends of Notre Dame asking ques­tions of alumn i concerning the R o c k n e or Nieuwland Memorial funds— 

Paul R. Martin, '09, is in charge of the work of the Julius Arthur Nieuwland Memoria l Foundation, with offices in the Main Building, Notre Dame, Indiana, and 
Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16, vice-president of the University, is directing the work being done in aug­menting the collection of funds for the Rockne Memorial. 
The Nieuwland Memorial embodies several projects as outlined in a re­cent announcement sent to alumni and friends of Notre Dame. The Rockne Memorial is now under con­struction. 
CAMPUS NOTES 
(Continued from Page 108) 
THE KELLYS ARE HERE 
One of the four Frank Kellys on the campus was elected president of the newly organized Florida Club. . . . Besides PVancis Brennan Kelly as president, other officers include: Al Kiefer, San Antonio, vice-presi­dent, and Al Bums, Port Lauderdale, Florida . . . The group has 20 mem­bers . . . the four Kellys enjoying the Christian name of "Prank" have their problems with mail being mis­directed, etc. . , . One of them was named as publicity chairman of a re­cent formal .. . As a result, another of the namesakes is under suspicion by his South Bend lady friend of es­corting a rival to the aforementioned dance. 
PLACEMENT 
For those trained in chemistry or business administration or both, sev­eral sales positions are open with a well-knon'n company dealing in petro­leum, disinfectants and soap products. Further information may be obtained from the Alumni office. 
7937 Legal Director/ 
(Additions and Changes) 
COLORADO 
Canon City GREGORY, Arthur C. LL.B.. '37 Record Block 
Denver 
OHARA, Bart W., -A.B.. "32 Milliard & Trout 1022-29 Midland Savings Building 
ILLINOIS 
RochclU 
O'NEIU Paul F.. A.B, "SS, LL.B., -35 National Bank Building 
INDIANA 
Indianapolis 
SEXTON, Joseph F., A.B.. •25. LL.B,'26 707 Peoples Bank Building 136 E. Marker Street 
South Bend 
PILARSKl. John M.. A.B., -36. LL.B.37 327-31 J.M.S. Building 
OHIO 
Lima 
KUHN. Robert John. LL.B.. '31 1200 Cook Tower Walter S. Jackson Law Offices 
W^anrcn GUARNIERI, Paul A., A.B., -36. LL.B., -37 Guamieri & Secrest 
OKLAHOMA 
Oklahoma Cit^ 
HESSMER, Everett L.. LL.B., "32 1922 First National Buildin" 

THE ALUMNI 
State Law Affects 
Log Chapel 
Prosecutins Attorney 
Gives Opinion 

The County Prosecuting Attorney, has, at our request, returned an opinion on the question of priests of­ficiating at the marriages of couples who are not reside7its of Indiana. 
In summary, his opinion states: 
1.
 That a license will not be granted to a couple unless the bride is a resident of the Indi­ana county in which application is made. 

2.
 A marriage license granted in any Indiana county is valid throughout the state. 

3.
 A minister of the Gospel who officiates in Indiana at the mar­iage of a couple who have no Indiana license may be fined not less than $50.00 nor more than $500.00 and is subject to possible imprisonment in the county jail for not less than ten days nor more than three months. 


(EEV.) JOHN F . O'HARA, C.S.C. President 
Indiana's drive to stamp out the vicious marriage mills on its horders has unfortunately, as indicated above, practically eliminated the happy cus­tom of many alumni of seeking the Log Chapel on the campus for their weddings. 
Rich in spiritual tradition, and al­ready rich in the traditions of this well established custom, the little Chapel was an ideal setting for the marriage of a Notre Dame man. In its simplicity it achieved a grandeur inaccessible to the art of the decor­ator. On the shore of St. Mary's Lake, with the occasional gleam from St. Joseph's Lake in the distance, and the chime of the bells from the spire of Sacred Heart Church, the spirit of the Holy Fdmily appropriately seemed present for the happy sacrament. 
Many alumni families will cherish a beautiful memory that the present law enforcement denies to the com­ing generations. 
Engagements 
Announcement has been made of the following engagements: 
Miss Sybil Galbreath and Harold 
L. Jennings, '30, South Bend. 
Miss Winifred Ward and Frank J. Noll, Jr., '31, of Indianapolis. 
Miss Louise Willard and James 
O'SuUivan Kearns, '34, of Chicago. 
Miss Jean Detwiller and Robert F. Rogers, '35, of New York City. 
Miss Eleonore CMebowski and Mark E. Nevils, '27, Chicago. The wedding will be on February 21. 
Miss Alice Elizabeth Healy and Harry M. Burchell, '34, of Brooklyn, New York. 
Miss Frances Marion Kridel and Richard C. Carton, '33, Red Bank, New Jersey. 
Miss Adele Ada Rosen and Arnold 
A. Wiener, '32, Chicago. 
Marriages 
Miss Agnes Stadelman and James 
E. Martin, '23, Were manied Novem­ber 27 in Bunker Hill, Illinois. 
Miss Elizabeth Oakley and Martin Vincent Callagy, '28, were married, January 22, in New York. 
Miss Katharine Russell and Joseph William Griffin, '28, were married, Januarj' 22, in Shorewood, Wiscon­sin. 
Miss Eileen Fitzgerald and Frank 
J. Kelly, '28, were married in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, January 11. 
Miss Margaret Helen Hassett and 
Lawrence Francis Stauder, '29, were 
married, December 28, in West AUis, Wisconsin. 
Miss Kathleen Regina Daley and Warren Sylvester Fogel, '30, were married, December 28, in New York City. 
Miss Alice Maiy and Samuel E. Richards, ex. '30, were married in Washington, D.C., January 20. 
Miss Mary Elizabeth Gerraughty and John E. Hockwalt, '32, were married, November 20. 
Miss Rose Marie O'Donnell and Marchmont Schwartz, '32, were mar­ried, December 27, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Louise Mary Williams and Paul E. Gray, '33, took place, December 30, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
The marriage of Miss Regina W. Maier and Norbert Thomas Mizerski, '34, took place, January 1, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Mary Claire Johansing and Robert Walter Van Lahr, ex. '35, were married, January 25, in Mon­trose, California. 
Miss Madeline Agnes Foster and Hugh John Devore, Jr., '34, were married, January 15, in Orange, New Jersey. 
Miss Margaret Mary LaPlante and Patrick Francis McCarty, '38, were married in Toledo, Ohio, December 28. 
Miss Charlotte MacKinnon and John Henry Zuber, '31, were married, January 15, in Saginaw, Michigan. 
Miss Mary Marsha Drumheler and Alfred Erskine, '37, were married, January 7, in Kansas City, Missouri. 
Miss Hazel Veronica Biggins and Vincent Joseph Fehlig, '34, Were married, January 20, in Clayton, Missouri. 
Births 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Clarence J. Kline, '21, December 19, in South Bend. 
A son, James Terry, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. Plunkett, '29, December 20, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard D. Broeker, '30, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Katherine, January 2, in New York City. 
>Ir. and Mrs. James £. Leahy. '30, announce the birth of a daughter. Sue Ann, November 8, in Oak Park. 
A daughter, Patricia Elizabeth, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Emmett Mur­phy, '33, on January 5, in Melrose Park, Illinois. 
A son, Charles Stephen, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Arthur C. Smith, Jr., '33, on January 7. 
A son, Timothy Patrick, Jr., was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Timothy P. Galvin, '16, of Hammond, Indiana, on December 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Sullivan, '30, announce the birth of a daughter, Molly Ann, on January 17, in South Bend. 
A daughter, Christine Marj', was born to Mr. and Mrs. George T. Weber, Jr., ex '30, on November 19. 
A daughter, Margaret Anne, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. M. Kelly Powers, '32, on January 6, in Chi­cago. 
A son was bom to Jlr. and Mrs. Edward Murray, '31, on January 18, in South Bend. 
A son was bom to Dr. and Mrs. George Seelinger, '32, on November 29, in New York Citj-. 
Deaths 
Frank H. Spearman, 78 years old, LL.D., '17, recipient of the Laetare Medal in 1935, died of a stomach ail­ment in a Hollyivood, California, hos­pital on December 29. 
A -svriter of wide note, Mr. Spear­man was best known for his novel, "Whispering Smith" which was twice made into a movie, in 1915 and 1926. Significantly, the final installment of another of his novels, "Carmen of the Eancho," had run in The Ave Maria just prior to his death. 
Bom in Buifalo, New York, in 1859, Mr. Spearman attended Law­rence College, Appleton, Wisconsin. His college course cut short by the death of his parents, he joined his brother in the wholesale grocery busi­ness in Chicago. There he married in 1884. Residing later in Appleton for two years, he eventually moved with his family to Nebraska where he opened a small bank and started his writing. His first stories and ar­ticles were sold to Harper's Weekly and Harper's Magazi7ie. 
Mr. Spearman was awarded an honorary doctor's degree by Santa Clara and Loyola of Los Angeles, as well as by Notre Dame. 
The citation read at the time he received the Laetare Medal from Notre Dame follows: 
"Frank H. Spearman has been selected by the University of Notre Dame as recipient of the Laetare Medal for 1935 in recognition of his distinction as a Catholic layman and of his services to the country in the volumes of interesting and wholesome fiction he has provided through many years for a large reading public. This award will have the hearty approval of all who are acquainted with the work of this manly American novelist." 
Joseph C Purcell, ex. '21, Kansas City, Missouri, died on December 29 after undergoing a major operation on December 8. News of his death was sent to the ALUMNUS by Fred Mancnso and Jack Donahue. Mr. Purcell was secretary-treasurer of the Frank Purcell Walnut Lumber Company, Kansas City, Kansas. He The Notre Dame Alumnus 

is survived by his wife, two brothers 
and a sister. 
Francis Millett, 91 years old, a stu­dent at Notre Dame in 1865-66, died on January 11 in the Holy Name of Jesus Hospital, Gadsden, Alabama. Word of his death was sent to the ALUMNUS through the kindness of the Sisters in the hospital at the sug­gestion of Father Andrew Capesius, O.S.B., M.A., '24, Ph.D., '29. 
Bryan H. Tivnen, Mus. B. '91, 
LL.B. '92, a resident of Mattoon, Illinois, and one of the most promi­nent lawyers in downstate Hlinois, died in the Passavant Hospital, Chi­cago, on Januarj-9 following a heart attack on Christmas Day. A news­paper account of his death was sent to the ALUMNUS by Tom Monahan, '31, Ai'cola, Illinois. 
Most Rev. Bernard J. Sheil, auxil­iary bishop of Chicago, pontificated at the funeral Mass for Mr. Tivnen in Mattoon and preached the funeral sermon. Many priests, from Chicago and from other parts of Illinois, were in attendance. Sur\-iving are Mrs. Tivnen and two daughters. 
William D. "Hogan" Morrissey, Cincinnati, graduate student in the boy guidance course in 1924-26, died suddenly on December 10 after a heart attack. He is sui-vived by his wife and a four-year-old son, his par­ents and three brothers. Funeral ser­vices were presided over by Most Rev. John T. McNicholas, O.P., archbishop of Cincinnati, and burial was in Lon­don, Ohio. 
Able, enthusiastic and popular as a student and as an alumnus, Hogan was fen-ently devoted to Notre Dame. He was particularly active in the Notre Dame Club of Cincinnati, and visited the campus frequently. 
For two years before his death Hogan was district agent for the Hiram Walker Distillery. Previously, he was executive secretary of the Catholic Charities of Cincinnati, di­rector of Fort Scott Camp for boys and director of boys' work for the Catholic Big Brothers' League. A singer of exceptional ability, he was a member of several choral groups. 
The Religions Bulletin on January 7 listed the death of Harry W. Carr, '09, whose latest address on the alumni records was 1211 Glendale -Avenue, Peoria, Illinois. Mr. Carr had previously resided in Evanston, Illinois, Niles Center, Illinois, and Green Bay, Wisconsin. 
Samuel A. Walker, '95, Seattle, Washington, is dead, according to a notation on mail recently returned by the Post Office. The date of death was not noted. 
February, 1938 
John J. Cooper, '32, Port Reading, New Jersey, died in a Metuchen, New Jersey, hospital a week before Christmas following a lingering ill­ness with throat trouble. News of his death came to the Alumni Office on a returned mailing piece. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sym­pathy to Donnelly P. McDonald, '12, upon the death of his mother; Father Philip V. Beaghan, C.S.C, '19, upon the death of his mother; Maurice O'Shea, '20, upon the death of his father; Father James E. Kline, C.S.C., '22, upon the death of his brother; Edward G. Hunger, '24, upon the death of his father; Alfred Meyers, '26, upon the death of his father; Ronald E. Rich, '28, upon the death of his mother; Norman J. Hartzer, '29, upon the death of his brother; John Molloy, '29, upon the death of his father; Father Raymond J. Clan­cy. C.S.C., '29, upon the death of his father; Eugene T. Connelly, '32, upon the death of his father; John H. Frield, '33, upon the death of his father; James Fitzpatrick, '34, upon the death of his mother; Peter J. Johnen, '37, upon the death of his father; George Hahn, '22, upon the death of his father; Joseph Boland, '27, upon the death of his father. 
Personals 
Before 1880 Secretary: Hon. T. G. Gal­
lagher, Fitchburg, Mass. The news that a new St. Andrew's Church is to be built in New York City vriU be of special interest to many of the older alumni because Rt. Rev. Luke J. Evers, A.B. '79, -A..M. '86, who died in 1924, was pastor of old St. Andrew's on Duane Street for many years. It was Fa­ther Evers who began the custom of haying workers' Masses at night, chiefly for the printers and news­paper men from nearby Park Row. The church has also served innumer­able workers from nearby federal, state and municipal buildings. 
1880-1885 Secretary: Prof. Kobert M. Anderson. Circleville, Ohio. 
Class of 1883 FIFTy-FIVE-yEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 
Jggg Secretary: Michael O. Bums. 338 S. Second St.. Hamilton, Ohio 
1887-1888 Secretary: J. L. Heineman, Connersville, Indiana. 
Oass of 1888 FIFTY-yEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 
lgg9 Secretary: P. E. Burke, 301 Camp New Orleans, Louisiana. 

1890-1893 Secretary: Louis P. Chute, T Univ. Ave, Minneapolis, Alinn. 
aass of 1893 FORTy-FlVE-YEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 
1894 Stcretary: Hugh A. O'Donnell, 1 W. 67th SU, New Yorle City. 
1895 Secretary: Eustace CuUinan, Sr., 860 Phelan Bldg., San Francisco, Calif. 
1896 Secretary: William P. Bums, 32T Willard Ave,, Stichigan City, Indiana. 
1897 Secretary: Rev. J. A. MacNamara, St. Jos. Sanitarium, Mt, Clemens, Mich. 
1898 Secretary: William C. Keslcr, 9th & Sycamore Sts.. Cincinnati, Ohio. 
FORTY-yEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 

1899 Secretary: Dr. Joseph F. Duano, 418 
•" ' Jefferson Blvd., Peoria, HI. 
1900 
In taking apart the altar in Fresh­man Hall recently, a carpenter took out a drawing board which had been serving as the back of the tabernacle. On this board were many signatures of former students. - One of the names was "Angus McDonald." 
And so this board is now being saved for the use of Angus' nephew (also named Angus McDonald) who will be a freshman in the University next September. The younger Angus is from Los Angeles. 
1901 Secretary: Joseph J. Sullivan, 1300, 139 N. aark St., Chicago, Dl. 
1902 Secretary: C. C. Mitchell. 110 S. Dearhom St., Box 3. Chicago, HI. 
1903 Secretary: Francis P. Burke, 904 Trust Co. Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis. 
THIRTY-FlVE-yEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 
Secretary: Robert Proctor, Monger 

1904 
Bids., Elkhart, Indiana. 
Secretary: Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. 

1905 
LaSalle St.. Chicaeo, BI. 
Secretarj-: Thomas A. Lally. 811-13 

1906 
Paulsen Bldg., Spokane, Wash. 
Secretary: Rev. Thomas E. Burke. 

1907 
C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind. 
Secretary: Frank X. Cull. Bulkley 

1908 
Building. Cleveland. Ohio 
THIRTy-YEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 

1909 ^^e^^A'y* S' F. Cleaty, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
1910 Secretary: Rev. M. L. Moriarty, 1900 Euclid Ave., Cleveland, Ohio. 
1911 Secretary^ Fred Steers, 1666 First National Bank Bldg., Chicago, III. 
1912 Secretary: B. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth St, Pittshurgh, Pa. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1913 Secretary: James J. Devitt, 921 En­cineers* BIdg,, Cleveland, Ohio. 
TWENTY-FIVE-yEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 
Clyde Broussard sends fi-om Beau­mont, Texas, the welcome news that he is practically certain to attend the 25th reunion next June because his second daughter, Mary Elizabeth, expects to finish at St. Mary's at the same time. Dan Skelly, Oil City, Pennsylvania, will also be on the campus for the reunion, according to Clyde. Add Bill Cotter, president of ther Alumni Association, and the local members of the class — Paul Byrne, University librarian, for in­stance, — and you have the nucleus of a notable gathering. 
Suggestion: ivrite to the class sec­retary today as to your plans and ideas for the reunion. The secretary will then be able to cooperate more effectively with a local class chair­man and with the Alumni Office in arranging a program. 
Incidentally, Clyde Broussard and the other local Notre Dame men and the Beaumont Chamber of Commerce w^ere responsible for a welcoming dinner in honor of Tom Lieb and Manny Vezie when they brought their Loyola of Los Angeles team to Beaumont for the Baylor game last fall. Present as Notre Dame repre­sentatives, besides the three just named, were Joe Broussard, AUreu Duperier, Leo Mixson, Burrell Boy-kin, Thomas Hughen and Joe Hebert, all of Beaumont; and Christy Flana­gan, of Port Arthur. 
1914 Secretary: Frank H. Hayes, 406 Bank of America Bldg., Anaheim, Cal. 
IQlg Secretary: James E. Sanford, Jam Handy Theatre Service, Inc.. 230 Park Avenue, New York City. 
The following comes from Mr. Sanford, of New York City, and points east: 
"A particularly appropriate Christ­mas card came from Brother Walter, C.S.C., laboring in the vineyard of the Lord at St. Gregory's School, Dacca, Bengal, India. Above the greeting was the folloTOng beautiful verse which I will pass on to his classmates and all Notre Dame men who knew him: 
'/ pray the proi/er the Eastemera do,— 
'Mat/ the peace of God abide with ytm.* 
"Jimmy Carolan, ex. '12, well known to many Notre Dame men of that period, who, with Knute Rockne, worked summers at Cedar Point, Ohio, is in charge of the amusement news desk at the New York Times. Jimmy was also formerly connected with the Hearst newspapers, and the Brunswick-Balke-Callander Company at Chicago up to 1930. 
"A brief call on Joe Gargan at Boston uncovered the news that he 
123 

is to be a member of a newly-organ­ized law partnership. More on the subject when Joe sends the informa­tion he promised. He was liard at work at the time of the call, helping a young N.D. grad to land a job." 
Joe Byrne sent these interesting notes to Jim Sanford: 
"Gus DoraU, '14, has done a re­markable job at the University of Detroit and has received high praise in the papers recently on his reported transfer to the University of Michi­gan. 
"Ray Eichenlaub, our former All-American fullback, has become one of football's best officials. Old 'Ike' seems to have been in demand all over the country during the past sea­son. 
"Hardy Bush, '15, has recovered from a very serious illness and is his old self once again. 
"Ward Perrott, '16, organizer of the First League Club of Notre Dame, has become quite a banker with the Stock Exchange finn of Emmanuel & Co. in New York City." 
Jim added a note that he hoped to see Hardy Bush soon. Their last reunion was on the streets of Verdun, France, in 1919. Jim later forwarded a formal announcement of Joe Gar-gan's new law firm—Graham, Gar­gan and Sullivan, 73 Tremont Street, Boston. 
1916 Secretary: Timothy P. Galvin, First Trust Bldg., Hammond, Ind. 
1917 Secretary: Kdward J. McOsker. 104 
S. Union St., Elgin, Dl. 

IQlg Secretary: John A. Lemmer, 1110— 8th Ave.. Escanaba, Mich. 
TWENTy-yEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 

Your secretary writes as follows: 
"Maybe ifs hard to believe, but they tell us we're out 20 years and that we are one of the 'old grad' groups to get together in June. One of the important factors in assuring the success of our 20-year reunion is the presence of a large number of the old gang. Let me hear from yon If you plan on being on hand. Let me hear from you if you won't be there because this 1918 column needs a few paragraphs once in a while." 
191 0 Secretary: Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce Street, Gary, Indiana. 
1920 Secretary: Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black Bldg., Los Angeles, Calif. 
Ed Doran, South Bend is the new vice-president of the St. Joseph County Bar Association. A former member of the board of governors of the Association, Ed was replaced in that job by Paul Bntler, '27. 
1921 Secretary: Dan W. Duffy, 1600 Ter­minal Tower, Cleveland. Ohio. 
192 2 SccrcUirj-: Gerald Ashe, Buffalo Ath­letic Club, ButTalo, New I'ork. 
Harry Mehre, head football coach in the Universitj' of Georgia for 10 years, was chosen for a similar posi­tion at the University of Mississippi, according to recent newspaper an­nouncements. Harry has a three-year contract effective Februarj' 1. 
192 3 Secretary: Paul H. Castncr. 1" Cor­nell Road, West Hartford, Conn. 
FIFTEEN-YEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 
Paul sends this pep message to pave the way for a large turn-out in June: 
"This is our 15th year—^well count them yourself—and it's our turn to meet this June under the five-year reunion plan. How about stai-ting plans to be there—Neil Flinn, Rusty 
Kennedy, Perc Wilcox, Francis X. 
Disney and many others we haven't seen for years? 
"If you come once you'll get the habit like those of us that make it regularly. Notre Dame has a Com­mencement second to none in the countr}'. Let me hear from some of you who are going to be there." 
192 4 Secretary: J. F. Hayes. Wm. J. Ped­rick & Co., International Bids., Rock­efeller Center, New York Oty. 
As the result of Jim Hayes' bril­liant effort, the next issue of the .A.LUMNUS will be running over with '24 news, — we hope, we hope, we hope. Jim sent in January a letter appealing for news to every member of the class whose address is on iile. Watch for the Big Parade in March! 
The good secretary himself is vice-president and treasurer of the insur­ance firm of William J. Pedrick & Co., in the International Building of Rockefeller Center in New York. He's the father of four, — three girls and a boy, — and resides out in good old New Rochelle. 
It's Major Robert B. Riordan now! The University registrar was recently advanced from the rank of captain in the Reserve Officers Corps to that of major. Bob is assigned to the 489th Field Artillerj'. 
192 5 Secretar>-: John P. Hurley, 2085 Brookdale Road, Toledo, Ohio. 
The Hurley touch is still magical— as witnessed by the following letter from a class undertaker. John says: 
"It seems that the new class secre­tary has been blessed with at least one newsy letter for each issue, and this time all honors go to J. Willard Jones, of Dixon, Illinois. He writes as follows: 
'I should make this an open letter to that one and only putter-on-the­spotter, Norbert A. (Duke) Clancy, self-acclaimed nomad of the Indiana metropolis. John is the kind of a fellow who sends Christmas cards every year from a different place and never uses a return address. Any­way, this is a good way to tell him that I enjoyed hearing from him and that I wish him the same. The same message to be conveyed to Ed Pol­haus and Al Foos. 
'Had a Christmas greeting from John D. Mahon, Superior, Wisconsin, and see that he deserted the con­firmed old men and annexed a Mrs. since last reports. Congratulations to John. Also John Hillenbrand (Bates­ville Caskets, the Quality Brand, adv. rates i-equested) sends his greetings and hopes that more of my clients will see the error of their -svays and demand his merchandise during 1938. Ray DeCourcey, bachelor deluxe, now with the Larson Construction Com­pany (ofiice manager, not labor fore­man), of Decatur, Illinois, wTites that he is spending his winter vacation in HoUj^vood. 
'Spent the evening of the AU-Star game with Chuck Collins and family in Oak Park, Illinois. Boy, if you want to see a couple of future var­sity guards, just drop in at 804 South Elmwood Avenue some day and take a look at Charley and Dave Collins. Met Congressman Vince Harrington in St. Paul following the Minnesota game, and he promised to see that everjithing turns out all right with the boys in Washington. Dr. Dave Murphy is doing a swell job along with younger brother, Ed, of filling an illustrious father's shoes here in Dixon. If you don't believe the health of this community is above par, take a look at my books this current year. Bob Dixon is still liv­ing in FVeeport, Illinois, secretary to Justice Shaw of the Illinois Supreme Court. No more bachelor quarters for Robert, however, since last sum­mer. 
'Frank Howland is in Springfield, Massachusetts, with a fine new job in the home office of the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company as the result of his excellent work in nearby Rockford, Illinois. [Made you look good on that one, Jones—Eds.] 
Bernie Livergood, according to the 
state insurance offices of Chicago, is now managing one of the larger of­fices in the citj' and is keeping within the new Illinois insurance code. A recent letter from Harry StuUdreher informs me that Dixon High School is reported to have some good athletes. I must find out if they are Phi Beta Kappa. 
'That seems to be about all of our class that I have heard from or of. I see by the papers that Rex Enrigbt, originally a '25er, is putting our Rock River Valley club on the map by stepping into a head coach's job. Nice going, Re-x. Don't forget the summer stag at Lost Nation in June. 
'John, what became of the rest of 
the Hurleys, Bill and Bob? Also Bob 
Howland and Firman Fusz, the St. 
Louis twins. Also John McNamee? 
Now that this has become a case of 
putting someone on the spot for next 
issue, why not hear from some, or 
all, of them. 
'Whoa, there goes the gong! John­ny and Pat need haircuts and then we must hurry home and help Cecilia Ellen eat her second birthday cake— that is, I must hurry home and see that the two hoodlums let her have a piece. Do me a favor, will you, John? Just edit this a little so that it won't cause Father Broughal and Paul Fenlon, if they should happen to read it, too much of a headache over allowing me to graduate.' 
"Thanks to you, Willard, and I hope all the boys you have mentioned will say 'hello' to their classmates of 13 years ago. Let's make it a lucky year for the class of '25." 
-Attorney Bill Voor, of South Bend, is a member of advisory committee of the Indiana state commission which is cooperating with the United States constitution sesquicentennial commis­sion in continuing the 150th anniver­sary of the« formation of the U. S. constitution during the period of rati­fication of the states. The observance will end on April 30, 1939. 
Howard Fischer is working with the Commonwealth Edison Company of Chicago, and is at the present time supervising the installation of the lighting system on the Outer Drive in Chicago. 
192 6 Secretary: James A. Ronan, 127 N. Dearborn St., Chicago, Illinois. 
The following are Mr. Ronan's sad, sad words on the state of the class of '26: 
"Mr. Dooley; 
"It's too bad. Bill, but it would appear that your recent appointee as class secretary is a pretty poor sales­man. Despite an ardent appeal in the past issue of this widely-circu­lated periodical, no member of our illustrious class of 1926 has seen fit to advise us pertaining to the where­abouts or whatabouts of any of our classmates. Perhaps you have done a little better at your end. But we will not give up yet—maybe a direct­by-mail campaign will bring more re­sults for next month. 
"A note from Rev. Keitben L. Roche, who is now pastor of St. Pat­rick's church in Havana, Illinois, re­ports tliat distinguished cleric in good health and spirits. If you're a duck hunter. Bill, tab this one. They tell me that Havana is the best duck-hunting spot in the Middle West, and I'm sure that Father Keith would be glad to have you drop in during the open season. Provided, of course, that you don't play with guns around the parish house. 

"George Patrick (Dutch) O'Day recently spent a couple of days in Chicago. He came over from Cleve­land on a hurry-up business trip; but managed a few hours to talk things over. Dutch reports that all the boys in Cleveland seem to be getting along fine. Jim Driscoll, after years of ex­haustive research, has finally com­pleted an automatic pipe - cleaner which meets even his most exacting demands. Chuck Mooney, they say, is still conducting a thriving insur­ance business. Pat Canny, in his new position as assistant general counsel for the Erie Railroad, has broadened the field of his travels even further. 
"Word came indirectly that John Sweeney was a recent victim of an auto crash. John i-eceived a broken arm which must be carried in a cast in a horizontal position. Pretty tough! 
"Gerry McDermott postcards greet­ings from Palm Beach, Florida, where he and 'the little woman' are enjoy­ing a month's vacation in most pleas­ant surroundings. We all should have paid more attention to those advertising classes. Bill. 
"Wouldn't you like to hear a word from some of those 'long losts,' such as Paul Fleminir, Mike Murray, John O'Oonne)), Doc Gelson, Paul Broder­ick, Jerry Timmins and dozens of others? Well, stand by, and we'll see That the mail will bring for next month." 
1927 Secretaries: Joseph JI. Boland. Ath­letic Omcc. Notre Djimc. Ind.: Ed­mund Deaeru. 7129 So. Pnrk Ave., CJiicaso. 
A POEM 
By J. M. Boland, 'Zl 

Oh. the men of twenty-seven no doubt were meant for Heaven xVs their prefects, profs and prompters will aKrec: But as senders of the messages that furnish us the assuages For a tired. diasKinE day—they're strict N.G.! 
For the first time in our scribbling, we haven't KOt a dribblinjc Bit of news, or infonpation on any of our friends; And to a tired, battered coacher, who hasn't srot the culture To make up fiction, poesy, fancy — you've ;riven the bends! 
Doolcy's on me. ArmstrouK's frantic; there isn't any sort of antic They haven't done to see the Kood old mail EO throuEh. Both want the twenty-seven white-space, full of news and briEht pace To intrJEuc you, and—relieve you, of that doush that is their due! 
Scrap-iron YOUUE says ^ it's Recession; that 
may be the riEht impression Of your inability to fill my raEEcd cuff; But if all of you are Democrats, perforce you 
needs must know that's Surely no way to follow up Our Noble Leader's stuff! 
Joe Bcndn claims it's Christmas "shorts"; iudffinE from South Bend reports That's cnouEh to worr>- most any old 
Alum. . . . 
Your scrivener sot a fast trim; and the holi­days have left him Sort of gasping, with his bankroll on the bum. 
So let's put out Christian charity, in its simple, forceful clarity To each other for no news in this, our column: And since we're just bcEinninff the second decade's first bis inning Let's close this doggerel with a wish both gay and solemn— 
HAPPY NEW YEAR! 

1928 Secretary: Louts F. Buckley, Middle­ton, Wisconsin. 
TEN-yEAR REUNION 
June 3, 4 and 5 

Losing avoirdupois while taking on more work at Wisconsin (he's been asked to teach a class there in the second semester) Buck still finds time for these notes: 
"Thank you, Howie Phalin and John McMahon, for setting a three-page standard in the last .A.LUJIN-US, which I hope will be followed in the remaining issues in preparation for the 10-year reunion in June. We are all looking fonvard to a complete account of the engineers next month. Since we expect at least three pages of notes, I am going to ask two men to go to work on the assignment— 
i.e. Louie Carr, 138 Hamilton .4.ve­nue, Passaic, New Jersey, and John Fagan, 164 Park Avenue, Edgewood, Rhode Island. Let me urge the engi­neers to please write to one of these men immediately so they will be able to continue the fine cooperation we have received from the guest conduc­tors this year. 
"My Christmas mail helped me to locate a few men from whom I haven't had a word in some time. Joe Brannon is in Seattle, Washington, at the Camlin Hotel. Bernie Garber's card was from Milwaukee, but unfor­tunately he didn't give his street ad­dress. [It's 621 N. Prospect .A.venue. —Ed.] John E. Brannon, of the Mt. Horeb, Wisconsin, Brannons, is lo­cated in Kenosha. My little village is not far from John's old home town— so I am hoping to see him soon. He was back to Notre Dame for the Pittsburgh game. I met John Thom­as, '30, of Marshfield, Wisconsin, on the Wisconsin University campus re­cently. John is a student here in the Law School and expects to finish his 
work in June. 
"I think that our class president, John Frederick, should come through with a letter next month concerning the reunion. We will be expecting to hear from you, John. The dead­line for copy will be March' 1 since the issue will be out about March 15. 
"In my opinion, the first order of business at the reunion meeting should be a discussion of a retire­ment plan for your class secretary to meet the super-annuation problem re­sulting from all these years of ser­vice. Howie Phalin gave you a good example last month of what a travel­ing secretary can do. Think it over and be ready to consider a 'New-Secretary Issue' at the get-together in June. 
"I trust that you have all included the attending of our ten-year reunion in your 1938 New Year resolutions. I am asking Andy Boyle, of the Uni­versity faculty, and Burt Toepp, the South Bend insurance vendor, to be local co-chairmen for the event and to make all the necessary local ar­rangements. I suggest that they con­fer with Jim Armstrong at once as to the best method of procedure." 
.A.nd Doc Frank Hegarty sends this from Pittsburgh: 
"Judging from the fund of infor­mation which has poured into my of­fice since your announcement in the December issue, there must be an in­tense stupor prevalent among the sci­ence men of '28—perhaps a post-holiday liver torpidity among the practitioners of the physic. So the facts for which you ask must necessarily be as limited as have been my con­tents during the past few years. 
"Marc Farrell, Sol Solomon, Dick Weyi, and myself, after attending different medical schools, came to­gether for our intemeship in the same hospital and have since gone our separate ways. Dr. Farrell, after graduate work at Massachusetts Gen­eral, has returned to Clarksburg, West Virginia, to assume the post of pathologist and attending pediatri­cian to one of the local hospitals. Mark is also the father of a baby boy. Dr. Solomon, married now and with t\vo charming children, is building a most successful practice in Ebens­burg, Pennsylvania. His modest es­tate boasts only a tennis court now, but I understand he's planning a few goal posts for the kids to practise drop-kicks on. Dr. Weys, after a residence in surgery at Duke Univer­sity Hospital, accepted a commission in the .\rmy, and the last I heard of 
him he was stationed at Indiantown Gap, Pennsylvania. However, I be­lieve at that time he was expecting a tour of duty in California. 
"Lee Schneider left our midst a few months ago to take up his abode in Florida. We're all hoping his ab­sence won't be permanent. Turk Meinert is now functioning success­fully as president of the local alumni group. He's still a bachelor, and still with the Philadelphia Co. Nobody has seen hide nor hair of Boh Strick­el for ages. How about some news, Bob? 
"I received an invitation to Bud Callagy's wedding the other day and regret I couldn't go. Best wishes, Bud. 
"This about makes me fresh out of news. Buck. Hope your next guest conductor will come more closely to Howie Phalin's masterpiece than I did." 
Postcarder Leo Mclntyre recently mailed one from the South on the occasion of the installation of Most Eev. Eugene J. McGuiness, D.D., one of Leo's relatives, as bishop of Raleigh, North Carolina. 
1929 Secretary: Joseph P. McNamara. 231 Wisconsin Street. Indianapolis, Ind. 
1930 Secretary: Bernard W. Conroy, 1103 Kennctli St.. New Kensington, Pa. 
Two-time Secretary Conroy (he's also sec. of the Western Penn Club) wants help, help. He writes: 
"Jim Rizer and Doctor Sheen are living at 40 Grammercy Park, New York City. Jim and John Nanovic get together for a game of badmin­ton once a week. Fred Davis is do­ing well with the Burroughs Adding Machine Co. Tom Cunningham has moved to 350 East 57th Street. He is still connected with the Internal Revenue Department. Connie Ochoa was visiting in New York during De­cember. Al Howard is now living at the Centre Club. 
"My brother Tom, '27, reports from Indianapolis that his family has increased by one, a girl, Kathleen, bom on December 20. Bill Holland, a classmate of his, had a new son a few days later. 
"Bill Steitz, '30, is doing fine and his plumbing company has been get­ting a number of the big jobs in Pittsburgh. 
"A little aid from the classmates would certainly help to make this column interesting." 
Word comes that Tom Frost is as­sistant manager in the parts and ac­cessories division of Chevrolet and is residing in Minneapolis at 3424 Gar­field Avenue, South. Tom was mar­ried in 1935 and has two daughters. 
2931 Sccretao" John Berean. 82S E. Col­fax Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
Your South Bend scout and secre­tary says: 
"A communication from Al Gall brings the announcement of Miss Helen Sailer and Andy Patrick, of Bridgeport. Andy is an architect with the firm of Fletcher-Thompson in his native city. Al discloses that he is doing editorial work with the Geyer Publications in New York City. Many friends of Tom O'Melia, of Carroll Hall fame, will be happy to learn that he is practicing dentistry in his native Clean, New York. Jerry Crowley took a leading part in the promotional end of the O'Brien Var­nish company convention held in South Bend and has advanced many new ideas for the promotion of his firm's tung oil product. 
"Herman Ziffrin is practicing law and directing the destinies of a truck­ing concern in Elkhart, Indiana. A New Year's card from Louie Godoy discloses that things are fine in Ha­vana, and his patio is wide open to any member of the class in the vicin­ity. Magarrall's tavern in Pitts­burgh is '31 headquarters in Pitts­burgh now that genial Billy has taken over active command of business. Louie Baden, happily married, is now with the Inland Steel Company, of Hamilton, Ohio. Among those seen at the Notre Dame-Canisius basket­ball game in Buffalo last month were: Ronnie Zudech and Johnny Dorschel." 
Emil Telfel is an instructor in English and director of the news bu­reau at Clarke College in Dubuque, Iowa. 
Sheridan Wells has been employed as good -mil merchant for the Patrick Henry Brewery for the past three years. Until just lately he was work­ing in southern Illinois territory, but three or four months ago he was transferred to Flint, Michigan. 
Jack Lynn is employed with the new Clarence Saunders grocery chain in Memphis. He has a little ^rl who was bom last summer. 
1932 Sccretarj-: Herbert Giorjrio, 9005 188th St., HoUis, L. I., New York. Carl Meyer still is with the Na­tional Park Service of the Depart­ment of the Interior. Carl lives at Anna, IlUnois. 
Bart O'Hara is now practicing law in association with Hilliard and Trout, Midland Sa\'ings Building, Denver. 
1933 Secretary: Donald Wise, 110 Pleasant St., Joliet, HI. 
FIVE-YEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 
Don Wise is beating the five-year drums. He says: 
"June, 1938, is the five-year re­union of the class of 1933, and I be­lieve that this is the opportune time to begin activities in regard to said reunion. Just what activities will be engaged in at that time is a matter entirely up to the class of '33 as a body, but the success of the reunion depends upon the number of mem­bers of. our class that attend. This is an appeal by me on behalf of the class, to each and every one of you for help in making this reunion a complete success. 
"John J. Kelly has agreed to con­tact the alumni in the territory from Minnesota to Alabama, and he.is in a position to do so, because he travels through that section of the Middle West His is the only offer to con­tact members of the alumni of the dass of '33 that has been received to date. 
In order to awaken and keep alive interest in this event many more contact men will be necessary. On the West Coast—^let's go, Laurie Vejar and Leo Cummings. In New York and surrounding territory— get busy, McGovem, Finneran, Rohrs and McGee. 'Big Tom' MuIviUe will have the easiest job of all in contact­ing the members of the Norfolk, Con­necticut alumni. In the South, Jules de la Vergne, et al., how about a little activity? In Wisconsin and points north, Frank Warner and Don Schnobel ought to be able to start the ball rolling. In Chicago, Maury Lee, Joe McCabe, Pat Crowley, Jack O'Shaughnessy, and a host of others will undoubtedly make the reunion a complete success insofar as Chicago and vicinity is concerned. 
"The names above listed are mere­ly spur of the moment thoughts, but they ought to be a fairly good start. If each member of the class of '33 will appoint himself a committee of one to campaign, the reunion cannot help but be a success. One and all, let me hear from you, or write direct to Jim Armstrong, alumni secretary, and inform us as to progress in re­gard to attendance, ideas on the pro­gram for the event, or anything else that may be helpful. June is not such a long way off and we must get started now!" 
Russell O'Shea sends some great dope from his headquarters with the Massachusetts Mutual in Cairo, Illi­nois: 
"The 1933 column in the Decem­ber-January issue of the ALUMNTJS was so depressed—in fact, it just wasn't—^that I submit the following, in the hope that it ^vill serve in a case of need. 
"Jimmy Walder, class of 1932, re­ports orally that Gerald Fitzgerald, of Muskogee, Oklahoma, is married, and still lives out Oklahoma-way. Ray Geiger works with an advertis­ing novelty company of which his father is one of the partners. Ray has some nice advertising novelties, and, when he was in Cairo last sum­mer for a couple of weeks, he sold much of his fine material about town. Lastly, Jimmy reports that Ed Hart, now a lawyer, has a nice practice built up by this time, and also is the father of a dandy four-months­old girl. 
"When Philip Darmody was in town over the New Year's week-end he told me that he would address a letter to me giving some information about some members of the class of 1933, of whom he knew at that tinie. 

It goes as follows: 'Carlo* Frank is working at the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Company, Buffalo office. Also in Buffalo is Frank Donahue, who is in the sales department of the American Wire and Nail Company. Mike Leding lives in Schenectady, New York, and is employed in the industrial control department of the General Electric Company. The Eclipse Aviation Company, (location unknown, but probably in the East), employs Francis Joseph and Alphonse Alvino. Francis Martin works for Consolidated Edison Company. Mitsch works for a metal working plant in Wheeling, West Virginia, and an­other Wheeling resident, Bill Dusch, is located with the Warwick China Company. "Tupper Lake" Larry Simmons works for the New York Central Railroad somewhere in New York State.' Phil, incidentally, has a nice position with the Illinois Central Railroad in the central office of that road in Chicago. 
"At graduation week-end last year the class of 1932 had such a rollick­ing good time at the five-year re­union of the class of 1932 that I envied them, and hoped that in June, 1938, the class of 1933 would have a similar get-together. How about it, men? 
"I am whole-heartedly in for the idea, and, since someone must, I will propose that our class secretary, Don Wise, of Joliet, look after the com­mittee appointments which need be made to insure that the class of '33 will have their five-year i-eunion plans arranged and carried out. It's an excellent idea, so let's get behind and push. You know, June and gradua­tion time is only about four months ahead of us, and so, time is short. 
"Perhaps one or two of those Commerce grads at South Bend, Art 
Prekowitz and Harry Scholnik, might 
be prevailed on to make some ar­rangements for a meeting place downtown. Perhaps Pat Bums, Jim Guilfoil and Jim Wade might cany the idea along in the South, while 
Dick Meade, Leo Cummings, Roily Schefter, Bob Sullivan and Nick Lu­
kats will draw together the boys from 'way out West. Ed Roxas will speak for the Philippines, and Charlie Pres­ton for Alaska. 
"Ed Dailey, Chuck Jaskwhich, Jim McGill and Joe Kurth were pretty good politicians during their days on the campus, and they should be able to 'convert' the men in the Mid-West. Tom O'Meara and John J. Collins, (of the Galla and Collins combina­tion) might be added to those. 
The eastern sponsors for the five-year reunion might be named as fol­lows: Jack Finneran and George Rohrs, Doug Giorgio, Biff Powers, Jim Ross and Ed Stephan, all of New York City, I believe. Some of the other fellows around in the East, such as Phil Faherty, Billy Burke, Jim Clark, Pete Connelly, Smoky Martin, Walter Johnson, and Bill Hawkes, might help out in making the thing a grand success. 
"Let's speak out about this men, and make some well-laid plans for an enjoyable reunion next June." 
2934 Secretary: James SIOSCOTV. 2320 N. 
Lawndale Ave., Chicaco. III. 

Here's the dope from Jim: 
"Jack Gorman has received his law degree from Northwestern and is practicing with the firm of Clausen, Hirsh and Jliller. 
"Ed Fitzmaurice (he of the Com­merce School) employs himself prof­itably these days in Milwaukee for the Burroughs Adding Machine Com­pany. This report should be extra-official because it comes from a home-office man of Burroughs. 
"Bob Van Lahr's grace period as a bachelor expires on Januarj- 25 as he takes unto himself a bride in Flint-ridge, California. Happy Days, Van! 
"We received the happy tidings 
from George Maloney that he was 
married to Miss Marj' Grady last Sep­tember 9. They are residing in Can­ton, Ohio. Here's hoping George doesn't forget the additional news he promised this column. 
"A very welcome note relieved our worries over the whereabouts and do­ings of Jack Landers. He is still loyal to his native Springfield, Mis­souri, but refused to divulge any news about those Springfield 'debs.' 
"All of us who remember Ed O'Malley will exult over the news that he is to be ordained in Rome on the Feast of St. Joseph, March 19. He sincerely wishes to be remem­bered to all of his old friends includ­ing Roy Waters, Andy Auth, Jack Dorsey, Bunny Crawford, Russ Leon­ard, Bob Nachtwey, Doc Landers, Dick Molique, etc. 
"Ed tells us that another of our boys, Ed Seward, is now in his third year of theology at the same semi­nary. Last summer Ed (Seward) mo­tored over most of the continent, and is now the travel authority of the college. Next year he plans to take in the points he missed including the Scandanavian countries, England and Ireland. 
"The boys over there listen to all the N.D. games—and as all Romans tell them 'the fifth mark of the Cath­olic Church is Notre Dame.' 
"Their address — and they surely would like to hear from you—is Col­legio Americano Del Nord, Via Dell 'Umlita 30, Roma." 
Francis Vitt works in the Chicago Merchandise Mart office of the Illi­nois State Relief. He has been mar­ried since last June. 
Bob Bondnrant, who has been as­sociated for the past four years with the law firm of Jones, Obenchain & Butler, in South Bend, has just opened his own offices in the J.M.S. Building. 
Bob Hamilton had, the first of the year, a fine promotion with the Dun-more Company, Racine, Wisconsin, manufacturers of electric motors, tools and appliances. Bob was ad­vanced from advertising manager to sales manager. 
John Roche, B.S. in C.E., writes to give his correct address. It's really 131 Hart Boulevard, West New Brighton, Staten Island, New York. The ALUMNUS had it "Long Island" in announcing the birth of John's son. 
John had had Christmas cards from Walter Dupray in Port Huron, Mich­igan, and from Mike Yriberry down in Peru, South America. Walt has a son and Mike, a daughter. 
Incidentally, John will mightily ap­preciate any help from his classmates in lining up a job—preferably civil engineering, but finance or account­ing gladly considered. New Eng­land is preferred for location, but that isn't at all a rigid requirement. John has had several years of expe­rience in office work. 
193 5 Secretary-; Pranklyn C. Hochreiter, 11 Brunswick Blvd.. Buffalo. N. Y. 
Hoch comes through again as fol­lows: 
"For a while there we had intended making this script a short one run­ning something like this: letters— none; calls—none; visits—^none; result —0.* But then along came Christmas and with it there were greeting cards from all parts of this har country of ours—some of 'em with notes at­tached and promises of letters. One letter came through and for it we are most grateful to Frank Holahan for he changed our mind about what we should write for the February rag. 
"We noted with deep regret two items in the 'Deaths' section of De­cember-January ALUMNUS. The class of 1935 herewith extends to the fam­ily of Al Capitell, in Belmont, Mas­sachusetts, condolences in their be­reavement. And to Father Thomas 
J. Brennan, C.S.C., the class of '35 also extends its sympathy on the death of his mother in Kalamazoo, Michigan. 
"We should like to inject a per­sonal note to friend Luke Kelly oat South Bend way. A Christmas card came to us for you, Luke. It was from Charlie Landmesser. If you are real good, we'll bring it to Chi­cago U. with us next summer. 
"We want to thank the following for their Christmas greetings: Mitch Saleh, Houston, Texas; Sigmund Sluszka, New York City; (we are still waiting for that promised missive, Sig.); Luke Kelly, South Bend; Vince Gorman, Kingston, New York; Mart Hendele, Chicago; Neil Crowley, Brooklyn; Carlos de Landero, Mex­ico; Tom Proctor, Elkhart; Cliff Dud­ley, Paducah, Kentucky; Jim Hartley, New York City; Art Korzeneski, Chi­cago; Gene Blish, '34, Denver, Colo­rado; and Dick Meier, '37, in a hos­pital in Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
"Gene Blish lives at 1550 Oneida Street, Denver; and Dick Meier may be addressed at St. Mary's Hospital, Minneapolis, Minnesota. How about a few of the Coyne "Merrj' Men" writ­ing to Gene and Dick. They both requested news on the gang and we believe a few lines to them from for­mer teammates would mean a lot. We personally want you to know we are praying for a speedy return to good health, Dick. 
"Art Korzeneski found a card that had ample writing space and penned off the following to us. We give it to you verbatim: 
'There is more room in this card to -vrtite on than any I could find—^I know I owe you a letter but you owe me one—. Ean into John Burke and Tom La Londe and George Demetrio at a 3 o'clock Mass at Old St. Marj-'s, where you will find some guys eveiy Sunday. 
'Last week I had a field day. Got on a bus in front of my place—2100 Lincoln Park West, Suite 308-9 (for your benefit) and ran into George Demetrio and Bob Bums. The night befor e at the Chicagoan it was Bob Cavanaugh, who is vrith the gov­ernment—good job—on his way to Texas. The boy really covers ground. His headquarters are in Washington. 
'Clark (John Clark Korzeneski 

playmate), by the way, is really en­gaged this time (you rat). I made every game at N. D. but saw veiy few of our gang.' 
"When a letter comes to our atten­tion with the printed head—'Treasurj' Department — Oflice of Comptroller of the Currency' we know it brings news from Frank Holaban. We wel­comed your newsy bit after the turn of the year, Fi-ank, and will turn the dope over to the crowd for mastica­tion. For the information of inter­ested alumni, Frank address at the present time is P.O. Box 266, Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, or 37 Bamum Place, Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
"The news of the missive dealt largely with Prank's experiences and meetings at the -Aj-my game. We were interested in his comment that he has attended all the games since our exodus and finds '35ers becoming scarcer each year. 
"Among those seen at the stadium were Jack Edwards and Jim Kelly. ex. '35. On the train Walt Brown was encountered. 
"Quoting, 'Early Sunday morning, after leaving the International Ca­sino,- Ned Rowan and Bob Henneber­ger, both of whom are finishing their law at Georgetown, came to our rooms at the New Yorker -where we partied for a couple of hours. I un­derstand that Art Carey had been with Ned and Henney earlier in the evening.' 
"The adopted son of the coal coun­try mentioned that the Anthracite Club of Notre Dame had its Annual Christmas Formal on December 30, 
and Thomas Kennedy, son of the 
lieutenant governor of the state, was chairman. Attending the eastern dis­play of the 'Big Apple' were Frank, Walt Brown, Ned Rowan and Jim Coll, who is still dissecting men and mice at Jefferson Medical School. None other of our gang was ob­ser\-ed. 
"One of our's of whom we have not heard news in a long time is Bill Miller. We ran into Bill the night of the Notre Dame Christmas Formal here in Buffalo. He looks good, is still the budding hamster of -Mbany Law School, and if we are correct, we detected a slight accent of the East creeping into his speech. But 'dapper' was the same old 'stuff.' You were a sight for sore eyes. Bill. Lots of luck! How about a line once in a while—and %vhile we think of it, don't you owe King La Londe a let­ter, too? 
"Of your writer there is little to. tell. He has been doing i-adio work for the Catholic Charities of Buffalo, having been on twice during Decem­ber. Word comes to his ears that he and a young ladj' of the department of interpretation will exclusively write, produce and handle programs ove r Buffalo's Columbia Station WGE. This is to begin Februarj' 8. It will consist in dramatization of cases that are current in the various departments of this agency. 
"We come to the end of another '35 monthly sketch. How about liven­ing it up, fellas, with more news from you out there in the naughty, naughty world? We are anxious to hear from 'our dead' who have never wiitten and from 'our paralyzed' who have forgotten how to \vrite. Let's get together and end up the last few months of this current journalistic endeavor irith a bang. Whatcha say?" 
February. 1938 
Publicitor Petritz sends the glad tidings that Danny Cunha is having phenomenal success with his basket­ball team at Vincentian Institute, Al­bany, New York. At one stage the boys had won 10 straight. (Whether or not some of the success is due to Butch O'Neill, '34, who ofificiates in some of Danny's games, is still to be considered.) Incidentally, the Vin­centian team will play in the prelim­inary game when Notre Dame meets Colgate in Albany on February 26. 
From the Dan Cupid notes of Jack Ledden, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune: George Melinkovich was married in New York recently; Fred Mundee, '37, will be married on February 5; and Mike Layden, '36, is engaged. 
193 6 Sccretarj-: John Monin, 61 E. 95th St.. Apt. 2, New York City. 
In between dubbing us poor devils out of our income taxes, your Mr. Moran got out this swell stuff: 
"Greetings and best of everj-thing for the New Year! Your secretary envisions a bigger, newsier, and more interesting column of class notes for 1938—but only with your continued and wholehearted support. -A.nd that means just one thing—^letters, and plenty of them with news about you indixidually, and whatever informa­tion you may have regarding any of the '36 gang. So let me hear from some of you secretive souls. 
"There was a pleasing increase in the number of cards and letters this past month or two. Christmas cards were received from Bill Walsh, Frank 
Murray, Joe Wade, Jim Sherry, Doc Caspar, Larry Palkovic, Cliff Brown, Lin Phoebus, Mickey Dandier, Walt Matusevich, Bud Goldman, and Andy 
Hufnagel. Thanks to you all for your kind remembrances. Thanks also to t%vo grads from '35 (and former col­leagues on the Scholastic), Vince Gorman and John Carbine, for send­ing along their greetings. 
"Jim Sherry wrote that he was due to return to Flint, Michigan, about the first of January to take further courses in accounting at the General Motors Institute. Jim is still with the Chevrolet Motor Car Company at the Tarrytown, New York, plant. And don't despair of ever receiving that sweater you left at my place after the Army game, Jim; I'll get ambitious one of these years and ship it out to you. 
"Bob Cavanaugh was heard from eai-ly in December. Bob wrote that he had been doing a bit of travelling for the Federal Deposit Coi-poi-ation, in the course of which he had spent a month in North and South Dakota, another month in Ohio, and even managed a stop-over at Notre Dame. The ex-prexy of the Commerce For­um stated that he had seen, in the last several months, Tom Campbell, who spent a week in Washington dur­ing September, Gene Tobin, John Maloney, Bill Whalen, George Mur­pby, and several others. Bill Deely is helping roomniate Cavanaugh run the F.D.I. Corporation and is doing a swell job. Bob added that he was leaving on December 2 for a trip through Missouri and several south-em state, but that he hoped to be back in Washington before Christ­mas. Thanks for your very newsy letter, Bob; after i-eading of your jaunts around the counti-y, you al­most make me wish I had picked the 

F.D.I. Corporation instead of the In­ternal Revenue Department for my iield of labors. 
"Buddy Goldman sent along a note from tropical Florida to say that the season down there was a bit slow in getting started, but that things in the furniture line were expected to hum shortly. 
"From Chicago, Jerry Vogel penned a letter on the eye-catching stationery of the Supreme -A.d\-isory Council of Aleph Zadik .\leph. Jun­ior B'nai B'rith. Jerrj-, who is chair­man of the organization's national committee on scouting, is still being bothered by quarterly exams, this time at the University of Chicago, where he is taking advanced work in Social Service .4.dministration. 
"Larry Palkovic penned a long let­ter from Cleveland, where he is now located at 3433 Trowbridge Avenue. LaiTy, it seems, almost got around to seeing the Army game, but an un­kind fate stepped in at the last min­ute, and he was denied the privilege. 
"That stylist of the English tongue —Al Torribio—sent along another of his terrific masterpieces from Los -A.n­geles. The word 'masterpiece' is not used literally, for A\ takes great de­light in torturing his fomier editor with dangling participles, unfinished sentences, and what have you. The "Trib" reported that the Notre Dame basketball team would be a great drawing card out on the West Coast, and suggests a game between Stan­ford and N.D.—with Stanford's Lu­setti matched against Notre Dame's Moir. J^hvays full of the Notre Dame spirit, A\ told how he recently went to a preview of a Zane Grey western thriller in which Nick Lukats, N.D. backfield star of several years ago, played the villain. Al kept dropping hints (out loud) about "what a hand­some villain he would be if only he had an electric razor"—and finally got the audience cheering for Nick. Perhaps the producers will find some favorable reports on Lukats' perfoi-m­ance on the opinion cards which were handed out. For the benefit of the rest of .A.l's creditors who would like to catch up with the former demon manager, his address is 249 Witmer 
Manor, 215 South Witmer, Los An­geles, California. Heh, heh, Trib— who's laughing now? 
"Joe Mansfield sent along the news that, in addition to his regular duties as an announcer at station WJAR, Providence, Rhode Island, he is also working on a commercial show spon­sored by the General Baking Com­pany. Joe interviews people in one of the large bus terminals in the city —and states that he corners some very interesting specimens to drag before the 'mike.' From the Mans­field source came news that Johnny Desmond is working for General Motors in Rochester, but that he plans a change in the near future which may take him into foreign ser­vice with on of the large outfits. Good luck, John. 
"Joe also reported that Jack Mur­phy is still cutting up at Yale Med School—but only cadavers. Mansfield recently received a card from Tom Fennelly which indicates that Tom has gone and got himself married to a former St. Maiy's girl. How about a confirmation on this. Torn? Joe re­quested information on his former roommate, Tom Keenan. So if Keen­an sees this, he can write the demon announcer at 562 Eaton Street, Prov­idence, Rhode Island. 
".4.nd that concludes the monthly stint. .A.gain, I i-epeat, your letters will be more than welcome. So drag out the stationery and let me hear from you. .\nd for those who are planning on attending the Notre Dame-N.Y.U. basketball gam e in JIadison Square Garden on February 25, I'll be seeing you in Ross' Tavern after the last basket." 
From the AUentown, Pennsylvania, Morning Call comes a long clipping reporting on the fine success which Ken Stilley is haring as coach and director of athletics in AUentown PreparatoiY School. Ken is held in the highest regard in the city and, particularly, in the school. Last sea­son his prep football team won four, tied one and lost t\vo. Ken also coached the -A^Uentown Professionals and this team came through the sea­son with six wins and a tie. 
1937 Scervtary: Paul Foley, 327 Liberty Street. Pontiac, Michigan. 
From the Pontiac Daily Prune comes this impressive dope produced by your able Mr. Foley: 
".A.rmed with t\vo letters, one in­surance pamphlet, a round dozen Christmas cards and a cheery smile we plunge into this newest chapter of the newest gi-ads. 
"Once more the boys were none too generous with the postage stamps. Possibly because of a certain leth­argy in answering mail already re­
• ceived—but then, 'tis far better to give than to receive. 
"Of course this is the time of year the campus boys beg^n to trade off the Christmas neckwear, count the. comp list from the holiday dub dance, settle to the routine of things and stuff. But, somehow we miss the genera l hubbub and suspicious glances at financial sheets. Anyway, it's mid-January and we enjoyed our rheumatic fling at the Christmas dance locally, saw the starry-eyed undergrad for a brief shagging spasm, tottered back to our couches and gently threw a fit. 
"But for the matter at hand: First to come, on the official mimeograph of the John Hancock Mutual Life In­surance Company, a letter from John Hurley, ex.-Scholastic scribe, baseball player extraordinary and harbinger of what happens to journalism ma­jors. Anyway, John's selling insur­ance as special sales representative in western New York (which has re­cently come to include Michigan for sales purposes), and sends in a few squibs about the boys. 
"Personal: that insurance idea is O.K., John, if I could float a slow loan. . . . 
"According to Hurley (which is just a neat way of side stepping libel suits) Al Bride is working as a credit man in a Hartford, Connecticut, store. Brides have a way of becoming credit managers. 
"Next on the Hurley calendar comes Johnny Desmond, who is re­ported electrifying the office of the Delco Remy Corporation in Roches­ter, New York. Johnny grabbed his sheepskin at mid-term last year. 
"Caesar Don Sconfietti, about 
whom we have heard vague wander­ings, is reported still vacationing. Which is all very jolly and Junior League if one can manage the neces­sarj' scratch. But to C. Don such is mere bagatelle. 
"Jerry Zeiler is also reported above. Just barely, however, for he is going through the graduate mill at Catholic U., and what with senatorial filibusters in the vicinity it must be like bucking a constant gale. 
"Newsmen note: Herb Kenyon is working in the classified ad depart­ment of a, or the, Yonkers New York journal. We scorn him as one who bows to the commercial (Whatcha makin', Herb?) 
"Bill Mulrennan, he of that Broad­way sheen, is selling shoes. Hurley says 'either just on or just oif the great White Way.' It would seem rather important, that qualification, since it's shoes he's selling. But any­way he can't be far from BUI (Moe) Foley, who greetinged us at Christ­mas with a suave New Yorkish card. 
"Jack Baker, the one with the tab collars, and John (Boff) Cavanaugh are reported working for New York stores. No doubt 'Boff' is -svithin range of a jam session, or, at very best, a nice dark comer for panto­mime efforts. 
"Here is a cryptic note that we throw out in hopes you'll understand. 'Harry Heinneman is working in or near New York, in his own profes­sion, rumor has it.' Nice work if— etc. 
"Frank Reilly, for whom we held high hopes and still do, is jumping back into the swirl of things at Mc-Eory Co., Inc., a concern operating in and around Orange, New Jersey. 

"Somehow we feel slightly kinder­gartenish when news leaks in from these law schools around and about. The lastest one is from Harvard Law, you know. Harvard, in the Ivy loop. It is said Harry Baldwin is leaving book marks in those calfskin tomes, 
as are Jim Waldron, Jim Dwyer and 
sevei-al others. Incidentally Promoter Jim was among those who sent us pictures of Santa Claus; thanks, Jim. 

"Last of the Hurley entrants is Gil Gallivan about whom we know little except that he is working in New York—^which is something. 
"Mr. George B. Niezer, 1241 West Washington Boulevard, Fort Wayne, Indiana, is out three sheets of neatly printed stationerj^ Mr. Niezer lost this stationery when his taffy-haired son shook a few drops of ink from the fountain pen and shot up a line or two. 
"It seems Bernie himself is batting the books at Indiana U. Law school —^vhich seems slightly unlawful in itself. BeiTiie reports he has been invited into Beta Theta Pi fratemitj' —good old Beta Theta Pi. 
"Dick McArdle, Neizer says, is in Chicago working for the Lincoln Na­tional Life Insurance Company. Phil Welsh, ex-Scrip editor, is also re­ported under the ivj- vines of Har­vard. 
"At long last, like a feeble tap from the entombed miners, we hear a glimmer of information about Parker 'Hundred Cents on the Dol­lar* Sullivan—and he is, as might be expected, in Lexington, Kentucky, where a mint julep is not chewing gum. It is said he works for the Lexington Telephone Company (in daytime). 
"Of course where Sullivan goes also goes Al Schwartz, who has given up terrorizing Joe O'Neil and is sell­ing hardware for his father's concern 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
back in Kansas—where hardware is 
really hardware. 
"Strangely silent have been mem­bers of the band since they laid up the clarinets in a comfortable bath of goose grease. But we have re­ceived word from the ex-band, presi­dent, Robert Trousdale, who reports he is working for the Baumann, Fin­ney & Co. certified public account­ants in Chicago. It seems Finney wrote a book once. But Trous is com­ing along in great shape we hear and has almost succeeded in tearing him­self away from the Thomas treatment for china knobs. 
"Word also drifts in from the wilds of Long Island of Basil (Battlin' Bas) Gillespie, who cryptically re­marks about mysterious 'travels in the South.' In any event, he was back in Hempstead long enough to send a Christmas card, and what the South lost Hempstead gained. 

"We have heard no word from the other Gillespie, who is half way be­tween a printer's devil and a devil's printer. We know why we haven't heard. Two reasons: (1) We owe Jack a letter; (2) he bought a suit of tails. But we'll write a letter if' it kills us—even though we see the universe shifting into sodden lumps when Gillespie will get tails. But then—chin up, and all that! 
"A long silence was broken at the Yuletide when we heard briefly from Bernard (Unk) Donnelly, sage of Holland, Michigan. We take it 'Unk' is still at Catholic U., but this is pure supposition. 
"Also represented on the Christ­mas list (we got a million of 'em) were: Bob Grogan, still in Shreve­port with that oil firm which bears the Grogan name; John Moran, who wrote those squibs a few pages ahead of this; Joe Druecker, still Selling air. Speaking of Druecker, we are still planning to answer a letter of his from way back. 
"One tome we welcomed with open arms, and one we should have an­swered long since, was the one and only Eli Abraham who fits into any class notes since '00. Abe confided plans for taking bar examinations, which he has done by now, of course. 
"We seem to be staggering to a close here. Which is all right, too, when all things are considered. It seems a shame that such husky mail­men as we have here find so little to carry to our step. But perhaps next month will remedy that situation. 
"So it's back behind the wallpaper to hide from the income tax man until the next issue." 
Karl King, after some experience ivith an accounting firm in Chicago, 
February, 1938 
has joined his father's accounting organization. King and Crowe, in South Bend. 
Joe AMering, of South Bend, who spent three years at Notre Dame as a pre-med student, is now in St. Louis University Medical school and is pledged to the Phi Chi fraternity. 
There were friendly greetings re­cently and an offer to help in the As­sociation in any way from Dick Flood, who is a student in Jefferson Medi­cal College, Philadelphia. 
Alberto Castineira recently joined the Genei-al Electric Company as a student engineer and at present is located in the Schenectady, Ne w York, plant of the company. 
The guy who perpetrates "Campus Notes" in each ALUJINUS, John Jacob Lechner, after selling football pro­grams all fall recently sold himself as president of the C.Y.O. of St. Joseph's parish. South Bend. John is in his final year of law on the cam­pus. 
Dues 
BRETHREN: May I say a few soothing words on a painful subject. Payment of dues for the current fiscal year is ahead of the total for last year. The class of 1937 had added a real note of cheer to the Alumni Office by its cooperation with the plan of dues for the first-year graduates. If the Alumni Association embarked on a sit-down strike from now until June 1, we could probably complete the year w-ithout asking the Univer­sity for aid. BUT WE DON'T WANT TO SIT DOWN (believe it or not). This is the lean period of dues, and the fat period of our program. The two are at each other's throats. Universal Notre Dame Night . . . a questionnaire to determine possi­bilities for placement service . . . the 1938 Class Reunions . . . Eockne com­memorations . . . highlight issues of the ALUMNUS .. . a big Commence­ment . . . new high for the Local Club Council in June . . . the Golden Anni­versary of football at Notre Dame in April . . . student contacts among the high schools . . . personal visits to the clubs . . . current information on timely questions of cultural and Cath­olic importance to you. . . . These are oppoi-tunities at our door. The Association wants to work for yoii. Notre Dame will benefit as yoii benefit, as well as the reverse process. It costs money to send out indi­vidual bills for dues. But money is necessary to conduct this program. Not a lot. But a little more. Send in your dues, if you haven't yet. Let's not only exist as an Association. Let's live. JIM ARMSTKONG. 

ATHLETICS 
(Continued from Page 112) 

. petition between the t^vo schools since the baseball season of 1924. One baseball game will be played on each campus. Notre Dame and Michigan will also meet in track, in a quad­rangular meet at Bloomington, April 23, ^vith Indiana and Ohio State fill­ing out the quartet. 
Coach Pedro de Landero of the tennis team is optimistic, even though his team meets the cream of the mid­dle western crop, playing five matches the first seven days in May. 
Father George L. Holderith, C.S.C, coach of golf, has a strong nucleus for his team, which took runner-up honors in the national intercollegiate tournament last year. 
The baseball team, under Jake Kline, also promises to be strong, with several additions to the pitching staif, and with most of the rest of the team back. The schedules: 
BASEBALL' Apr. 16—ChicaKO at Chicago Apr. 18-19—Ohio State at Columbus Apr. 25-26—Iowa at Notre Dame Apr. 30—CliicaRO at Notre Dame May 3—Nortiiwetem at Notre Dame May 5—Western State at Notre Dame May 7-—llidiican State at East Lansins; May 10—Illinois at Notre Dame May 14—Western State at Kalamazoo May 17—Northwctem at Evnnston May 19—Mic}ii;;an at Ann Arbor May 21—Michigan at Notre Dame May 24—Michigan State at Notre Dame 
(tentative) 

May 27-28—California at Notre Dame 
June 3-4—^Wisconsin at Notre Dame 
(Commencement) 
GOLF 

Apr. 18—Detroit at Detroit 
Apr. 22-~Chicaffo at Chicago 
Apr. 25—Ohio St.ntc at Notre Dame 
Apr. 30—Purdue at Notre Dame 
May 2—^\Visconsin at Madison 
May 6—Northwestern at Notre Dame 
May 14—Minnesota at Notre Dame 
May 16—^Michigan at Ann Arbor 
May 21—Michigan Ststte at East Lansing 
Indiana State toumnmont at 
Evansvillc 
National Intercollegiate golf tourna­
ment at Louisville 

TENNIS Apr. 22—Northwestern at Notre D.ame Apr. 30—Western Slate at Kalamazoo May 1—Detroit at Notre Dame May 2—Chicago at Notre Dame May 4—Kentucky at Notre Dame May 5—Michigan at Notre Dame May 7—Indiana at Notre Dame May 12—Michigan State at East Lansing May 14—St. Louis U. at St. Louis May 19-20-21—State tournament at 
Kichmond, Indiana FOOTBALL 
We are offering herewith Notre Dame's revised 1938 football sched­ule, just to keep the records straight. The site of the Georgia Tech game, October 8, has been changed from Notre Dame to Atlanta. This works out nicely for Noti-e Dame since, with Georgia Tech here, the Irish would have played their first four games all at home. It works out just as nicely for Georgia Tech which is making the game part of its semi­centennial celebration. The schedule as it now stands: 
Oct. 1—Kansas at Notre Dame Oct. 8—Georgia Tech at Atlanta 
Oct. IS^IIIinois at Notre Dame 
Oct. 22—Carnegie Tech at Notre 
Dame 

Oct 29—^Army at New York 
Nov. 5—Navy at Baltimore 
Nov. 12—Minnesota at Notre Dame 
Nov. 19—Northwestern at Evanston 
Dec:. 3—Southern California at Los 
Angeles 

MISCELLANEOUS 
If you are interested in close games, you might keep in mind the scores of recent Illinois-Notre Dame athletic contests when picking your spots for the fall of 1938. The last seven contests have given the lUini an edge of one point and one victory and six of the contests have been tied at the end of regulation play. Our baseball team won, 7 to 6, in 13 innings last spring. The golfers tied, 13% to 13%. Illinois' track team nosed us out for second in the Cen­tral Collegiate meet, 29 to 28. The varsity football teams tied at zero apiece. The football B team tied at 6-all and 7-all in two games. The basketball teams were tied at IS-all at the half, 30-all at the end, and Illinois finally swamped us by 33 to 32 in the overtime. The track meet is the only one not tied at the end of regulation time. Our prediction for the game next October 15—a stand­off! 
MONOGRAM WINNERS 

An indication of how little substi­tution was done at Notre Dame dar­ing the past football season is seen in the list of monogram winners an­nounced by Athletic Director Elmer 
F. Layden. Only 25 players won the coveted N. D. and of this group 14 are seniors. 
The seniors who are receiving awards from the faculty board of control are: 
Captain Joseph Zwers, right end; Leonard Skoglund, left end; Chuck Sweeney, right end; Dennis Emanuel, left tackle; Gene Ely, left tackle; Joe Ruetz, left guard; Joe Kuharich, right guard; Walter Marshall, right guard; Pat McCarty, center; Andy Puplis, and Chuck O'Reilly, quarterbacks; Jack McCarthy, left halfback; Nevin McCormick, right halfback; Ennio Arboit, right halfback. 
Those in the sophomore and junior classes who made monograms are: Earl Brown, Jr., left end; Ed Beinor, left tackle; Alec Shellogg, right tackle; Paul Kell, right tackle; Jim McGoldrick, left guard; Ed Longhi, center; Harry Stevenson, left half­back; Louie Zontini, left halfback; Joe Thesing, fullback; Ed Simonich, fullback; Mario Tonelli, fullback 
Johnny Murphy, right end, and Joe Gleason, right halfback, who won let­ters last year, also are due to grad­uate. 
BLACKHAWK HOTELS 
Your guests will appre­ciate the beautiful mod­enmess of Blackhawk Hotels — their gradous hospitality — their out­standing service and con­veniences. In Blackhawk Hoteb you will find lux­urious comfort at moder­ate rates. 

BLACKHAWK HOTELS Located in 
DAVENPORT, IOWA . PEORIA. ILL. . . HOTEL JEFFERSON 
HOTEL BLACKHAWK 

ST. PAUL. MINN. HOTEL ST. PAUL 
HOTEL MISSISSIPPI 

MASON CITY. IOWA HOTEL DAVENPORT HOTEL HANFORD 
BLACKHAWK COMPANY 
fhey'L PIBASUJIE 
Copyright 1938. LIGGETT & MvCRS TOBACCO Co. 





