The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

NOTRE DAME 
FEBRUARY-MARCH 1962 
A NEW KJND OF PLAY HOUSE 
^m 
(See "Patterns for Survival: Living with the Atom") 
.r.^rl ^^'^^£,1

mmm^ . 
«-' 
M
EDIATION — a new dimension in hi^er education. Keep that 
word in your thinking. It may well be the key to the destiny of Notre Dame. 


Mtorial Comment 
As the echoes of the intensive Chal­
lenge Program in 1961 begin to sub­side, we must turn our attention to the real goals of the Universit)' that dictated that campaign (and the ulti­mate success it must achieve), 
".. . Catholic higher education can, in our time, perform an important mediatorial function. Catholic higher education stands for something definite, definable, and, I trust, something true, good, beautiful, and timeless. The world is disjointed today in so many ways, fragmented into so many dis­parate parts, that one might look far to find a more inspiring, more im­portant, or more central task for the 
from your Alumni Secretary 
This concept has not been adequate. It is from this inadequacy that higher education and the world outside the campus have finally met in a feeling that the pool of higher educational re­sources — whether faculty', or facilities, or alumni — has been largely untap­ped, as crises have multiplied in areas indeed, in any way that the present-day needs of mankind demand and in whatever areas where we might serve as men committed to Christian wis­dom. ..." 
Destiny will not be achieved in com­placency. It will not thrive on the all-for-one and one-for-all tradition. It 



Mediation the IMizA yHoxV 
Catholic higher learning than the exalted work of mediation in our times. ..." 
These are words spoken by Father Theodore Hesburgh to the National Catholic Educational Association in April, 1961. He has spoken in similar vein to alumni. 
In the ensuing months it has been my good fortune to talk with many representatives from campuses all over the country — state, private, large, small, men's, women's, co-educational. 
The feeling is general that there is a gap between our system of higher education and the problems it presum­ably was established to solve — one of the greatest being the area of public responsibility. 
Historically, colleges and universities were set up to preserve knowledge, to transmit knowledge, and •— primarily in basic research — to expand knowl­edge. 
But in all of these segments, the campus retained an objectivity, a de­tachment from its contemporary world. 
If, in preserved or transmitted or new knowledge, there might be solu­tions to contemporary problems, it was the responsibility of the world outside to adapt them. 
where only trained leadership can con­
tribute enlightenment. 
Into this realization, almost as it 
dawns. Father Hesburgh has injected 
the dynamic new concept in the prac­
tical new dimension of mediation. 

Through his participation in na­tional and international areas of crisis, as an educator and a priest, he has grasped the significance of the oppor­tunity that is knocking at the door of all higher education, and the even greater opportunity that knocks at the door of the Catholic university. 
If the University of Notre Dame can implement his concept, it may well become the number one University of the world. In his words: 
".. . The University has always been the critical mass in society. Today one may not simply criticize: the prob­lems are too enormous. The modem university must begin to commit its resources to solutions. I can visualize the Notre Dame of tomorrow operat­ing in South America and in Africa. I can see Notre Dame leading the way at home and on the world scene, too 
— in the ecumenical movement, in civil rights, in the philosophy of science, in brid^ng the gaps between diverse world cultures, in atoms-for-peace — 
will require the intellectual application^ . of alumni and students as never before. 
But in the absence of this initiative, 

in our failure to throw our strengtii 
into today's crises, weakness begets 
weakness. 
Perhaps the most vivid realization of this decline lies in the fact that Catho­lics are pitted against Catholics in problems of civil rights, in problems of labor and management, in problems o| ^ political philosophy, even in problems of population control. 
The world we live in, certainly the academic world we live in, will, with­in the few years just ahead, recognize this new dimension and mobilize the increasing resources of higher educa­tion to its implementation. The alter­native would seem to be a growing failure of function, \vith accompanying disillusion and detachment of support by the society that in its earlier vision and conviction built our schools. A 
Notre Dame, through its President, has defined the challenge and the op­portunity. 
It remains for all of the strength behind Father Hesburgh to determine whether thk definition becomes a mile­stone in destiny. 
— JAMES E. ARMSXRONd© 

Notre Dame Alumnus^ February-March, 1962 
. NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. 40, No. 1 Feb.-Mar., 1962 
|Editor James E. Armsfrong, '25 
Managing Editor John F. Laughlin, '48 
Columnist 
Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '41 

Photographer M. Bruce Harlan, '49 
This magazine is publislicd bi-monthly by the Univenity of Noire Dame, Notre Dame. Ind. Entered as second class mat. ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Post Office, .Votre Dame, Ind. under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 

CONTENT HIGHLIGHTS: 
•
 Editorial: Mediation, p. 2. • News: Board Elections, Challenge Progress, p. 3. 

•
 Feature: Patterns for Sunn\-al: I., Living with the Atom, p. 4; II., Antennas in the Sky, p. 5. • Student Slant: A New Frontier? by Terry McCarthy, '62, p. 6. 

•
 Miscellany: Notre Dame Notes, p. 7. 


o Picture Stories: Our Man in Washing­ton, p. 8; They Rallied Round the Dome, pp. 12-13. • Notre Dame Books: Notes, 
App. 8-10. • Coliunn: Man and the Mo­ment, Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '41, p. 10 • Announcement: 39th Uni­versal N.D. Night, p. 11. • Law School News, p. 13. • Athletics: 1961 Football Statistics, p. 14. • Club News, Directory, Calendar, Universal Communion Sunday, pp. 15-25. • Sublime Tradition (insert): The Political Maturity of .American Catholics, Frank L. Keegan, M..'\., '51, Ph.D., '59. • Class News, Statistics, Spot­light .Alumni, pp. 26-51. * President's 
MLetter, Walter L. Fleming, Jr., '40. 
ON THE COVER: LitUe John and Catherine Dasek make a happy game of a grim experiment in this South Bend Tribime photo. Children of Joim Dasek, '54, their story is told in the "Patterns for Survival" capsule, "Living with the Atom," in this issue. 
CHALLENGE NOW IN THE STRETCH WITH ONLY $4J MILUON TO GO! 
From July 1, 1960, to the present, the University has received approximately 
$13,700,000 in gifts and pledges toward or about 76 per cent. 
Of thb total nearly 15,000 alumni million, $2,102,000 of which came in total to date indicates participation by 
 the $18 million Challenge Appeal Goal, 
 have given or pledged more than $3.6  gifts or pledges of less than $500. The  less than half of Notre Dame's 30,000 
active alumni, but thousands more are expected to contribute toward the goal of greatness before tlie June 30, 1963, deadline set by the Ford Foundation. Pledges turned into cash by that date will be matched by the Ford Foundation at a ratio of 1 for 2 up to $6 million, which the University needs for many necessary projects not covered by the appeal. 
More than $4,300,000 in additional gifts are required by the deadline to meet Notre Dame's minimum need in the Program for the Future. Only sixteen months remain in which to accomplish the task, but alumni have already demon­strated that thev will do more than their share. 
William Mahoney Elected to Head Alumni; Carroll, Huter, Mehre to Assist President 
WILLIAM P. MAHONEY, JR., '38, PhoenLx, Ariz., attorney, was elected president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association by its board of directors January 19. He succeeds Walter Flem­ing, Jr., '40, Dallas, Tex., industrialist, as head of Notre Dame's 30,000-mem­ber alumni organization. Fleming re­mains on the board as honorary' presi­dent. 
Elected vice-presidents were Maurice Carroll, '19, St. Louis, Mo., architect (Class); Roger Huter, '40, president of Huter-Quest and Co., Louis\ilIe, Ky. (Clubs); and Harry Mehre, presi­dent of Sunny Isles, Inc., Atlanta, Ga., soft drink firm (Fund). James E. Arm­strong, '25, South Bend, Ind., was re­elected executive secretary of the As­sociation. 
Bill Mahoney received a law degree from the University in 1940. He was captain of the 1938 track team and served as track coach from 1938 to 1940. He was a naval officer during World War II. From 1946 to 1948 he was assistant attorney general for Arizona, and he was prosecutor of Maricopa County (Ariz.) from 1953 to 1957. Bill was chairman of the Arizona del^ation to the 1960 Demo­cratic convention, supjx>rting the presi­dential candidacy of John F. Kennedy. He and his wife have seven children, four boys and three girk. 
Installed for three-year terms on the board were Albert D. Castellini, '24, Cincinnati attorney; Philip J. Fac­cenda, '51, president of the Midwest Container Co., Inc., Chicago; Peter J. Keman, '49, college recruiting coordi­nator. The Ford Motor Co., Dearborn, Mich.; and Adam J. Walsh,'25, Bruns­wick, Me., a U. S. Marshal and for­mer collegiate and professional foot­ball coach. 
The newly elected directors of Notre Dame's alumni organization took of­fice at the winter meeting of the board January 18-20 on the campus. The next meeting will be held with Eastern representatives of Notre Dame Clubs and Classes in May. 
WINNERS in recent Alumni Board Ballot (from left): Castellini, Facenda, Kenuo, Wabh. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, J962 
The electrical fires weren't as bad as the 

Patterns for Survival: after-effects. "It took a long time to geW 
the smoke out of the place," John says. ™ 
Exercise and recreation were severely limited in the cramped quarters, 12 feet 

I. Living with the Atom 
long, 10 feet wide, and barely high enough 
J
OHN DASEK of South Bend, Indiana, is an architect and former resident of Milwaukee. Inducted into the Air Force in his senior year at Notre Dame, he applied for elected membership in his original Class of 1954 before returning for a degree in 1959. His wife Sue is attractive enough to have been named Queen of the Town & Countr>' Shopping Center at its recent open­ing near their home. 
On November 18, 1961, the Daseks and two of their young children emerged after 1I6J^ hours in a temporarj- "home" — a steel fallout shelter at the same shopping center — and returned to their permanent abode in time to hear the Notre Dame-Syracuse football thriller on the radio. 
MR. AND MRS. JOHN J. DASEK, '54, stand before the "home" they occupied for five days with the children: (l.-r.) John, 2; Christin, 1; and Catherine, 4. The baby did not accompany the rest of the family into the shelter. 
proved by local CiWl Defense authorities. They were greeted by the fifth member of the Dasek family, 11-month-old Christin, who stayed with friends during the family's fii'c-day confinement. The youngest of the shelter dwellers, t>vo-year-old John, climbed back into the structure until his father ex­plained that they wouldn't have to stay there any more. Four-year-old Catherine seemed almost sad to be leaving her "play house." 
Excitement and drama were provided by two fires that broke out in the wiring dur­ing the Daseks' stay. A wire pulled loose the first night when workmen covered the shelter to keep out the cold. Sparks flew about until a call on an unlisted emergency phone summoned a maintenance man from the shopping center, who turned off the clectricit}- at an outside power control box while John spliced the broken wire. Sparks sputtered again early Saturday rooming when the splice pulled apart, and John had to make repairs in the same round­about way. 
BLEAK HABITATION is stocked with provisions by Mrs. Dasek, assisted by Jobn and Catherine. 
"Really nothing to it," said John of their ordeal, and Mrs. Dasek agreed: "We were surprised. Wc thought it would be much worse." 
in the center for the adults to stand erect. To pass the time there were only a few children's games and a transistor radio which functioned properly only early in the morning and late at night when traffic and 
>trcftifecf and Family Hibernated | For Cfvff Defense Experimenis With Life in a Fallout Shelter 
It was their first look at the outside world since they entered the shelter on Monday afternoon, November 13, to begin a shelter living experiment under conditions ap­other interference were at a minimum out­side. The family didn't mind the lack of teleMsion; their set at home had brolicn down a week before their adventure. 
The routine included daily reports to the South Bend Tribune over their telephone line. The reports included first-hand obser^ vations on fallout shelter life which suggest, beside their value to Civil Defense, an excel­lent check list for future shelter builders. Some of the suggestions follow: 
1.
 A floor drain and dry well to elimi­nate human waste, dishwater, etc. The Daseks had a 20-gallon can in which were deposited garbage, ^vater and the scaled disposable bags with which the toilet was equipped. It met their needs, but they be­lieve a dr)' well would be preferable for a longer shelter stay. 

2.
 An organized system of storage with small shelves for every purpose. The DaseM dwelling had shelves all along the walls. The resulting clutter, they believe, would have been alleviated by separate shelves for food, wat«r, cooking equipment, tools, first aid supplies, and other items. 

3.
 Plenty of cooking utensils. The Daseks had a lot of equipment, but Sue found she could have used a long cooking fork, a ladle, extra pots and skillets. 

4.
 Small cans of food and liquids in great variety. The Daseks had to throw out food for lack of refrigeration when they werfl unable to cat the entire contents of large cans. There was plent>' of food left over, John reported, since appetites were cur­tailed by the lack of normal activities. 

5.
 Condiments, spices, appetizers, to brighten the menu. The Daseks suffered from a lack of mustard, ketchup, etc. Cheese spreads were found best for shelter eating, since they could be used on crackers with little preparation, waste or cleaning up. 


7.
 Decoration to brighten drab surround­ings. The Daseks suggested that painting walls, adding drapes, curtains and other decoration would help to relieve the "jail cell" atmosphere. 

8.
 Recreational materials like books, plajV ing cards, games for adults as well as chil­dren. "We might have gone stir crszy," said Sue, without the Monopoly game she played nearly every day; these sessions were fun, even though her husband did win all but three of the 14 games they played. 


.AH in all, the Daseks enjoyed their ex­periment and were proud to have played a part in research on living with the atom. A 
Notre,Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 
INFLATED ECHO SATELLITE, its 100-foot diameter dwarfing figures in foreground, requires 40,000 pounds of air on the ground but only a few pounds of gas to inflate in orbit. Its micro-thin plastic film skin, coated with aluminum, reseab after meteorite punctures, weighs less than 200 pounds, with equipment and metal container. It can function at 1,000-mile altitude as a reflector for intercontinental communication or soar moonward as a \'isually trackablc lunar probe. 
Echo I Sfill Circles in Space, 
But for Designer Bill O'Sullivan, '37, 
It's 'Back to the Drawing Board' 
A
FEW WEEKS ago a Thar rocket took off from Cape Canaveral, Florida, 
wjust before daivn. It contained a giant (135 ft. diameter) Echo A12 satellite, an experi­mental successor to the famous Echo I, packed in a small metal cannister. Re­leased by explosive bolts, the vehicle in­flated quickly before a rip appeared in its silver)* surface. Scientists — including Echo creator William J. Sullivan, Jr. — watched on television while a camera in the rocket recorded the disintegration. The too quick inflation had been caused by a tiny amount of residual air; O'Sulliv-an and colleagues of Operation Echo went back to their drawing boards. 
In 1957, when the ALUMNUS first de­^scribed the scientist's e-xperiraents with in­wflatable vehicles for radio-reflection, no one could guess that three years later a huge aluminized plastic balloon with a skin 


i Patterns for Summit 
half as thick as cellophane would be seen crossing the sky like a new star — and would remain in orbit to this day. 
National Aeronautics and Space .-Xdmin­istration's medal for exceptional scientific achievement was presented to O'Sullivan last October 27 during an awards ceremony at N.AS.A Headquarters in Washington, D. C. 
Head of the Space Vehicle Group at N.'\S.-\ Langley Research Center, he was recognized for his concept of inflatable vehicles as instruments for obtaining valu­able information on space and for his ex­ceptional scientific achievement in directing the design and development of Echo I — the world's first passive communications satellite which has been orbiting the earth since .-\ugust 12, 1960. 
This is the second award Bill has received for his space research activities. He won the 1961 Astronautics Engineer .Achieve­
ill. Antennas m the Sky 
ment Award last March 16 at the annual Dinner sponsored by the National Rocket Club. 
Bill has been a research scientist at Lang­ley since November 1938. He also serves as an assistant to the chief of Langley's Applied Materials and Physics Division (.AMPD). 
During his two decades of ser\nce at Langley, Bill has specialized in a number of fields of research concerned with flight — including aerodynamics, fluid mechanics, heat transfer, the physics of the atmosphere, rocket ballistics and propulsion, metallurgy, and the design and development of space vehicles. 
He is credited with the conception of a research program using extremely light­weight satellites to study characteristics of the upper atmosphere and outer space. The micro-thin sateUites are made of plastic coated with aluminum foil and are designed to be rocketed into orbit in a deflated con­dition, then inflated by an attached nitro­gen cartridge after they are ejected from the powerplant. Satellites of ever great­er diameter have been built in connection OTth the space research program. 
Bill, a native of Louisville, Kentucky, graduated from Notre Dame as an aero­nautical engineer and entered duty at Lang­ley near Hampton, Virginia, a year later. 
O'Sullivan is active in a number of scientific organizations concerned ivith space. He is a member of the U. S. Inter­national Geophysical Year Technical Panel on Rocketry, and ser\'es on the Committee on Geodesy of the Space Board of the Na­tional .Academy of Sciences. A number of technical papers on research activities at Langley have been prepared by him for publication by N.AS.^ and for presentation to scientific societies. 
He is married to the former Myrtis Gen­evieve Hall of Shanghai, Virginia. With their five children, they make their home at 4015 Monitor Drive, Hampton, Virginia. Bill has been active with the Boy Scouts of -•America for many years. At present, he is Chairman of the E.xplorer Scout Post 24 Committee of St. Rose of Lima Church in Hampton. 
THE WILLIAM J. O'SULLIVAN, JR., family at home. Seated (from left) are Mary, Mrs. O'Sullivan, Bill O'Sullivan, and Kevin. Standing (from left) are William III, Robert, and Patrick. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 

ANEW 

FRONTIER? 

Vhe Student Slant 

By Terry McCarthy 
Secrefory, Notre Dame Class of 1962 
 THE ERA of the new frontier s^veeps 
A
s the United States what changes, if any, find their way to the campus of Notre Dame. If a student on campus were asked what concerns him most, most likely the ansiver will include a brief discourse touch­ing on regulations, campus feelings, what to do after graduation or even just plain food, and assuredly the student would ask, did you see our new library- being built on Car­tier Field? Let us briefly investigate these topics to see if a new frontier is present at Notre Dame. 
On campus physical expansion is climbing toward an ape.x. The old Na\-y Drill Hall has been torn down, and on the north end of the campus the new student activities building will be completed by Februarj-. The construction of the new ]ibrar>' is the focal point of an $18 million building program, which will also include two graduate resident halls, an increase of §2 million for the stu­dent aid fund, faculty salary increases, re­search allotment, and aid in other designated fields. The physical growth is only one external manifestation of the inner growth of our University. Notre Dame grows so that she may continue to establish herself rightly as a leading institution of learning. Thus there will be even greater opportuni­ties for students to realize their potential in an atmosphere of education of the whole man. Now let us move on to regulation^, which put a new look into campus life. 
New Discipline 
This year a change in disciplinar>- policy 
greeted the students, a change which is the 
result of years of discussion, planning and 
study. The most obvious innovations are the 
abandonment of restricted study time and 
morning checks along wth the installation 
of hall chaplains. This appears to be a 
promising tendency away from an externally 
imposed substitute for community spirit of 
lis-ing among the students. The section on 
regulations in the student guide no longer 
carries the explicit specifications of "grave" 
and "more grave" penalties, and it has been 
trimmed down to eight general rules. In 
relation to the disciplinary changes. Rev. 
Charles I. McCarragher, C.S.C, Vice-Presi­
dent for Student Affairs, has said, the old 
regulations were created for a smaller school 
than that of the present. With enrollment 
now at 6,500, the need for decentralization 
of discipline and greater student responsi­
bility was felt. It is felt that self-discipline 
can mold character much better than en­
forced discipline. 
The students now make the decision as to the time for retiring and awakening. Lights no longer are turned off and on. Morning check, often justified as an aid to morning Mass attendance and as a discipline builder, has been discarded. Instead of morning check a more intensive religious program under the direction of the hall chaplain has been instituted. This year, the freshmen are granted unlimited midnights and are distinguished from upperclassmen only in that they have a midnight instead of a 12:30 (seniors 12:45) curfew on Satur­day nights. 
Student Apathy? 
There is no nostalgia among most stu­dents for the old discipline, and the trend toward self-discipline appears to be accepted with a calm feeling of self-assurance and conscientious responsibility. If we were to project current student feelings into the future, we would find a confidence to rise to any occasion and the ability to accept leadership. Certainly time will tell whether these prognostications arc correct. 
In line with the new responsibilities placed upon the student body the charge of Faire-Neantism (student apathy) makes its ap­pearance. The men elected to class offices and positions have not let faire-neantism afi'ect them. Each class has initiated vigor-our class plans that have been running smoothly to date. .•Vs an example of these programs let us take a look at senior plans. 
.Academically, the senior class is sponsor­ing a lecture series with discussions centered on such practical matters as military obliga­tions for non-ROTC students, and in the future, job inter\'iews, income tax statements and insurance policies. This is only an ex­ample of what is represented on each class council under the direction of academic com­missioners. Other phases of student life that are represented on class councils are the religious, social and athletic aspects. 
Since 1954 the senior class has choosen a "Patriot of the Year" in conjunction with the traditional \Vashington Day Exercises. .Apathy? Well, the vote this year broke all existing records, both in ballots cast (818) and percentage of turnout. Over 85% of on-campus seniors voted, as did better than 30% of the off-campus seniors. Perhaps these are isolated examples but I believe that the general feeling on campus is, Faire­neantism, no! 
Something of particular interest to the senior is job opportunities for the 1962 graduate. The engineering or science gradu­ate has a particularly bright outlook, and the commerce and arts and letters graduate has, if not as bright, still a promising out­look. It is interesting to note, however, that the present trend is for the graduating senior to continue in graduate school. 
In recent years Notre Dame has been one of the leading Midwestern schools in the winning of Woodrow Wilson fellowships; Fulbright and Rhodes scholarships also are not foreign to the Notre Dame student^ When these awards are added to the list of other fellowships and scholarships that are won it is easy to see why conservative esti­mates say over 50% of the graduating seniors attend graduate school. Thus in senior discussions grad school is an eminent topic no matter where the place of dis­cussion. 

The graduate school desire is somewhat reflected in the present interest of 550 seniors in taking the 1961-1962 edition of the graduate records examination and 301^, more desiring to take the law, business anc ^ medical board examinations. These are not exact figures, but they ser\-c well as a gen­eral estimate in depicting the number of seniors with the ambition to continue their formal education. 
One topic of interest to all Notre Dame students, no matter what their plans for the future, is the food seri-ed at the dining halls. Last spring a dining hall questionnaire was circulated, with the hope for improvement in the e\*eryday routine; at present the only major change is the allowing of unlimited milk at meals. Last year's students favorecW fewer ser\*ings of potatoes. Also soups anc ^ "closed" cold cut sandwiches were high in demand. Items vetoed in the questionnaire were the suggestion to eliminate meat at the first meal to allow more quality in the last two and the proposal of dropping choice meats for a greater selection of other dishes. On a more general level the questionnaire revealed that just 58% of the men eating at the South Dining Hall thought meals were reasonable. At the North Hall 68% expressed this opinion. ^< 
A new frontier on campus? Probably not. The interests of today's students remain similar to those of their predecessors. When­ever the world situation changes then the interests of the student are molded in new forms, but still with the basic intention ot preparing the student to be a better man in all respects: a man who is able to adjust to the many frontiers of life. 


HELP WANTED 
Applications sought with a view to immediate consideration for a pcrma-^ ncnt administrative position in alumni V relations at the University. Business and public relations experience would be extremely helpful. Applicants should include a rcsiune when writ­ing to the Executive Secretary, Uni­versity of Notre Dame Alumni Asso­ciation, Box 353, Notre Dame, Indiana. 

6 Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 
vincial superior of Holy Cross Fathers in the 
U.S. A civil engineer and teacher for 15 





'J^otre 'Damocles 
years before he began studies for the 
Father Hesburgh, Reamer Honored 
Last October Father Hesburgh was awarded the ribbon of honor of the Cath­olic Austrian Student Association, "Alpen­land." Thus he became the first person from a non-German-speaking University to be so honored. Our president was In Vienna as a permanent Vatican reprc­
^sentativc to the International .Atomic Energy* 
^Agency. At the candle-lighted ancient ceremony were: Dr. Julius Raab, former Chancellor, now president of the Republic of .Austria; Prof. Rehrl, pro-rector of the National .Agricultural College; Prof. Jo­han Kosnetter, dean of the University of Vienna Theology Faculty, and numerous officers and representatives of .\ustrian Catholic .Academic Societies. 
Telegrams of congratulations were re­ceived from Dr. Leopold Figel, fonncr chan­
•cellor, presently chairman of the National Assembly; Dr. Kalubka, chairman of the People's (Christian Democrat) Party; Car­dinal-.Archbishop Koenig, and Msgr. Fried­rich, Papal Nuncio. 
In the awarding ceremony. Prof, .-^dolph Geiger cited Father Hesburgh for his un­tiring efforts to put to peaceful uses a force of nature heretofore used only for destruction and demolition. Dr. Peter Veith, senior (president) of ".Alpenland" added the hope that a bridge would be built between Notre Dame and ".•Mpenland" that would be frequently crossed in the fefuture. Mr. Karl Gump, philister senior (alumni president) spoke of a new era of co-operation between Catholic acadamiclans in the whole world. .Americans present were Mr. Frank M. Folsom, former chair­man of R.C..A., Papal Chamberlain and chief Vatican delegate to the I.A.E.E. and Richard S. Reamer, Jr., a Notre Dame alumnus ('55), senior medical student in Vienna and first foreigner to be made a regular member in the Catholic .Austrian 
^Student .Association ".•Mpenland." 
Father Hesburgh and Dick Reamer scored a "double first" for Notre Dame: first full-fiedged membership for a foreigner and first foreigner to be awarded the ribbon of honor. 

Major Gift by Tavares, '27 
.A gift of $500,000 from Mr. and Mrs. Carlos Tavares '27, of La Jolla, California, was announced In Januar)-. Mr. Tavares, a 1927 Notre Dame civil engineering gradu­ate, is president of the Tavares Construc­tion Company, Inc., In La Jolla. He Is a 
.member of the Unlversit)-'s .Advisor)' Council 
ffor Science and Engineering. 
Father Hesburgh said the half-million dollar Ta\'arcs gift Is "one of the largest re­ceived to date" in Notre Dame's $18,000­000 Challenge Program, a nationwide fund raising effort. He described Mr. and Mrs. 
tion. Nearing completion is the $350,000 
Stepan Student Activities Center, gift of Mr. 
and Mrs. Alfred C. Stepan, Jr., Chicago. 
As a direct result of Mr. and Mrs. Tav­ares' philanthropy, the Ford Foundation will award the University an additional $250,000. The Foundation is committed to match on a one-for-two basis every gift which Notre Dame receives for non-govern­mental sources up to June 30, 1963. Notre Dame Is one of six .American universities benefitting from the matching-glft proinsion of the Foundation's "Special Program In Education." Objectives of Notre Dame's current $18,000,000 development program include the Notre Dame Memorial Library, $8,000,000; two graduate residence halls, $4,000,000; faculty development, $3,500,­000; student scholarships and fellowships, $2,000,000; and a retirement program for non-academic employees, $500,000. .•Ad­ditional projects underway are a $3 million computer center and a $1 million radiation chemistry laboratory. 

Father Steiner, Mestrovic Dead 
Since the forms were locked up on the Class Notes section a distinguished mem­ber of Notre Dame's 50-year Club, Father Thomas .A. Steiner, C.S.C., '^^, has passed to his reward. Father Steiner, a faculty colleague and roommate of the late Car­dinal O'Hara even before both were called to the Holy Cross priesthood, died Januar)-1 in South Bend. He was beloved by genera­tions of Notre Dame men as a teacher, dean of engineering, rector, prefect and spiritual advisor. His most recent assign­ments were as adx-isor to the president on University construction and earlier as pro­
priesthood, he was a close companion to 
Cardinal O'Hara until the latter's death in 
1960. 
The obituary section was closed before the death of I\-an Mestrovic, internationally celebrated sculptor and professor at the University, on January 16. Bom in Croatia and educated in Vienna, he was revered in Yugoslavia as a patriot as well as an artist, a leader in the fight against both Fascist and Communist invaders. Prof. Mestrovic, who came to Notre Dame from Syracuse University, has several famous pieces of sculpture displayed on campus. Including the seven-ton marble "Pieta," formerly at New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art and now in Sacred Heart Church. After a funeral on campus January 19 his body ^vas returned to Yugoslawa for burial. His widow and two children survive. 

Alumni Named Papal Knights 
Several Notre Dame men — and women 
— have been approved and accepted as Knights and Ladles of the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre by Pope John XXIII. 
Dr. Daniel J. Bradley, '28, of AmityvIUe, 
N. Y., was invested last fall In ceremonies in St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York City, with Cardinal Spellman presiding. Mrs. Bradley was made a Lady of the Order in a separate decree. 
Investiture ceremonies in Houston, Tex., at the annual meeting of the Western U. S. Lieutenancy, included several alumni and friends from St. Louis, Mo. Named Knights were Dr. Matthew W. Weis, '22; Vincent J. Fehllg, '34; and Harry S. Surkamp, father of Robert, '49, and Henr>-, '46. Mrs. Fehlig and Mrs. Surkamp were named Ladies of the Order. 
student society. Father Hesburgh is first non-Gennanic scholar thus honored. At head 
WEARING CAP AND RIBBON of Honor  of Vienna's "Alpenland" Austrian Catholic 
Tavares' generosity as "truly magnificent" table are (l.-r.): Msgr. Johann Kosnetter, dean of Catbidic theology, University of 
and said their gift would be used to help Vienna (under flag); Richard S. Reamer, Jr., '33, senior medical student and first foreign Uinance the thirteen-stor>' Notre Dame member; Dr. Julius Raab, president and former chancellor of Austria; [Memorial Library currently under construc­Father Hesburgh, and Dr. Peter Veith, senior (president) of Alpenland, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 

NOTRE DAME: -.
OUR MAN IN WASHINGTON . . 
REMINISCENCES OF AN ERA* 

LAETARE MEDAL was presented to President John F. Kennedy by Father Hesbui^h in White House ceremonies last November. Looking on (from left) arc Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C; James F. Kelleher, '34, assistant to the Postmaster General; and James E. Murphy, public information officer at the University. 
AT WHITE HOUSE conference with the Civil Righte Commission, (clockwise from left) President Kennedy confers with aide Harris Wofford, Spottswood W. Robertson III, Father Hesburgh, Commission vice-president Robert Storey, Robert S. Rankin, Chairman John Hannah, Berl Bemhard. (AP Wirephoto) 
HAPPY REUNION in Washington joins two Americans and two adopted sons: (L-r.) Amleto Cardinal Cicognani, former Apostolic Delegate to the U.S., now Papal Secretary of State; Egidio Cardinal Vagnozzi, present Apostolic Delegate; Father Hesbiu^h, and Thomas Hinton, Executive Director of N.CCS. 
-5 Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 
Nonfiction by Richard Sullivan, '30. .Notre 
Dame: University of Notre Dame Press, 
1962. Paperback (NDP-10). 259 pp., 
$1.95. 

Tenth in the paperback series of the Notre Dame Press, this is a new edition of a book originally published by Henr}- Holt in 1951. It >vas first described as "the story of a great university." This it is not, in the sense of being a complete chronological histor>-. The author has described it as "a love song" and a "myster>-" — ambiguous^ but curiously exact terms for a book that is more rhapsodic than scientific in concept and construction, part paean, part profile, part serious appreciation and part burlesque. A character sketch of an historical figure or a beloved professor stands beside an Onvcl­lian satire on Lobund, an impressionistic vignette, or a personal reminiscence. Perhaps this is partly the secret of the book's dura­bility, or the blurb's assertion of its "en­during fidelity .. . to that intangible some­thing that bears the tag, the 'spirit' of Notre Dame." The rei-ision consists princi.^ pally of a short prologue and a longer epi­logue, correcting a few mistakes, skimming quickly over developments of the past ten years, and containing a long euIog\" to a departed friend and mentor. Rev. Leo L. Ward, CS.C. 

PRISONER OF LOST ISLAND 
Teen fiction by Frank Kolars, '24, M..^. 
'25. Milwaukee: Bruce Publishing Com­
pany, 1961. Hard cover, 160 pp.", $2.95. 

A sinister Communist plot to take over a lumber camp in Chile is the center of interest in this new book by journalism^ graduate Frank Kolars, now teaching crea­tive writing on the English faculty of New York's Hunter College. A cryptic code mes­sage woven into an Indian blanket sends young Ben Nichols to the Chilean interior in search of his father, believed buried in a landslide. Characters in this engaging mystery include Ben's uncle, an intelligence ofRcer turned missionary priest; a house­maid who turns out to be a spy before she is murdered; a weird teen hot-rodder who attempts a kidnapping, and a s\v-arth}C) stranger who is also an espionage agent; a mountain of a monk whose appearance be­lies his academic stature, a Chilean police captain, and friendly Indians. The author has been writing for radio and television for 15 years, has written for \'arious feature syndicates, and recently turned to writing Catholic fiction, features and verse. 

REVOLUTION IN THE CITY 
Nonfiction by Vincent J. Giese, M..A. '50. 
Notre Dame: Fides Publishers .Assn., 
1961. Hard cover, 123 pp., $2.95. 

"It is no solution to the problem of inte­gration when communities are allowed to go from all-White to all-Negro. Some4R) where we must strike a balance and achieve some stable, integrated communities, where no racial or cultural or ethnic group has a one-sided grasp on a community." So concludes the author after dispassionately documenting the history of a Chicago com­munity that recently changed from White to Negro "almost overnight." His book talks about the attitudes of people, the^J breakdown of institutions, practices of real 
time for diary keeping in those urgent 
months. Msgr. Kennedy writes in Balanc­ing the Books: "Dr. Dooley well knew that his illness might be fatal, and he knew he-



NOTRE DAME BOOKS 
fore others that it was in fact fatal. He 
estate speculators, the panic of Whites in face of Negro in-migrat:on, problems of youth amidst change, and the role of com­munity organizations and churches. Analyz­ing the rapid turnover of his neighborhood, Giese laments the fact that the decision to move, for the most part, was taken from 
• the hands of the residents. "Here is a situa­tion," he writes, "where one community becomes inundated by Negroes who quite naturally are in search of housing in one of the few areas in Chicagoland open to them. The fault cannot be placed on the Negroes. . . . Neither are the residents of the communit)' to be blamed for the upheaval. Real estate speculators, absentee landlords (hiding behind trusts), mortgage bankers, petty criminals from outside the areas, building managers who unjustifiably 
^•aised rents — and society at large for clos­in g off other parts of Chicago to Negroes 
—
 combined to create an almost impossible situation for the long-time residents to cope with. That such a situation could develop 

—
 and is developing over and over again 

—
 calls for a serious examination of the urban problem." Although dealing with a particular community in Chicago, Revolu­tion in the City strikes a chord in ever>­large city in the United States. "The con­temporar>- city is in a fight for sur%-ival," writes James V. Cunningham ('44, M.A. '50) of Action-Housing, Inc., Pittsburgh, in the introduction. "One of the significant 


Sbhanges flows from racial upheaval: the sudden displacement of the white popu­lation in a neighborhood by Negroes. Such changes have been particularly dramatic in the in-migration cities, those Northern metropolises like Detroit, Chicago, and Cleveland, which through job opportunities and the layout of rail lines have experienced prodigious increases in Negro move-ins dur­ing the past two decades." 
fiTHE GROUND I WALKED ON 
Autobiography by George N. Shuster, '15, 
A.M. '20. New York: Farrar, Straus & Cudahy, 1961. Hard cover, 256 pp., $4.50. Dr. Shuster relives his 20 years (1939­

59) as president of New York's Hunter College before his return to Notre Dame as the 1960 Laetare Medalist. "But," says Msgr. John S. Kennedy, "this is far more than a rehearsal of the trials and tribula­tions of an educational executive. It is, as well, a review of tumultuous years of con­flict, a recital of travels and ser\'ices for the United States Government, a portrait gallery of celebrities, a discussion of edu­cation's aims and methods in America at mid-century*. .. . It makes stimulating reading. Dr. Shuster's opinions, candidly and trenchantly stated, will not meet with . universal agreement, and his espousal of J causes which have stirred controversy will ? cause angry dissenters to call for proscrip­.' tion of his book. In fact, he argues his con­
victions with force and urbanity and merits ^ thoughtful hearing for what he has to say." 
THIS IS THE ROSARY 
Spiritual Reading by Rev. Francis Beau­
chesne Thornton,'31. Introduction by His 
Holiness Pope John XXIII. New York: 
Hawthorne ISooks, Inc., 1961. Hard cover. 
190 pp., $4.95. 
This scholarly addition to the literature 

of the rosar>* begins with a discussion of the 
psychological basis for repetitive prayer in 
meditative religions, then traces the history 
of prayer patterns from "rounds" of stones 
or knotted cords to paternosters or chapelets 
or coronas before the rosarium (rose garden) 
of fifteen decades or even the Hail Mary 
as we know it took shape. Father Thorn­
ton goes on to tell how the rosary 
became a universal practice, anal>'zes its 
prayers and mysteries, and presents valuable 
aids to meditation. The author, who pub­
lished two books of verse before he left 
Notre Dame, went on to Oxford University 
and a professorship of English at Duquesne, 
sen-ed as a chaplain with the Canadian 
.Army in \Vorld War 11, and has been an 
editor of the Catholic Digest and its book 
club for nearly 20 years. 
THE SCIENTIFIC ART OF LOGIC Philosophy text by Edward D. Sinunons, 
M.A. '49, Ph.D. '52. Milwaukee: Bruce Publishing Company, 1961. Hard cover, 352 pp., $4.80. Dr. Simmons, an associate professor of 
philosophy at Marquette, has written the first book of a projected Christian Culture and Philosophy Series, designed to present the basic themes of Western thought in such a way as to elicit personal involve­ment, arouse philosophic wonder and pro­vide access, according to the editor, "to the works of men such as Plato, Aristotle, Augustine, Aquinas, Kant, Bergson, Mari­tain — whose writings are, after all, more fecund than any text can hope to be." A complete study of formal and material logic, the volume will presumably be followed by others on natural theolog>', cosmology, ethics, metaphysics, philosophical history and philosophical psychology'. 

BEFORE I SLEEP 
Biographic antholog>% edited by James Mon­
ahan. New York: Farrar, Straus & Cuda­
hy, 1961. Hard cover, 275 pp., $4.50. 
.\ trilogy by the late Dr. Thomas A. Dooley III, '48, {Deliver Us from Evil, Edge of Tomorrow, and The Night They Burned the Mountain) detailed his first .Asian experiences as a Na\'>- physician in Viet-Nam, his return to Asia to establish hospitals in Laos, and his fight to maintain those hospitals in spite of criticism. Com­munism and his own encroaching cancer. There remained untold the stor)- of the months between the surger>- he undenvent in August, 1959, and his death in Januar>% 1961. For this story editor Monahan used a title taken from a Robert Frost quotation Tom took as his motto: "The woods are lovely, dark and deep^But I have promises to keepyAnd miles to go before I sleep." The story had to be told in the assembled testimony of others, for there was little did not abandon his efforts to bring medical care to the peoples of the East, and espe­cially Laos, but persisted in working, travel­ling, lecturing, begging until almost the eve of his death. He kept his promises be­fore he slept" 
ARCHlTEaS IN AMERICA OF CATHOLIC TRADITION 
Nonfiction by Francis W. Kervick, Rutland, Vt.: Charles E. Tuttle Co., 1962. Illus­trated, $10.00. 
The author, former head of Notre Dame's architecture department, is an alumnus of the University of Pennsylvania, but his con­tinued help and interest have merited a special elected membership in the NJ). Alumni Association. For many years Prof. Kervick spiced his architectural practice and pedagogy with research on American Catho­lic architects of the past, searching public records, early newspapers, diocesan archives, even cemeteries, since so little printed ma­terial on their accomplishments was avail­able. Citing a great architect who had been forgotten in 50 years, he noted that "it seemed worthwhile to record, as far as possible, other men who might thus be for­gotten." Hence this collection of brief bio­graphical sketches profusely illustrated with the subjects' work, in which a tradition that flourished between the fall of Rome and the Reformation is traced in church, school and other public buildings designed by American Catholics of the past 150 years. 

PATTERN FOR PEACE: CATHOLIC STATEMENTS ON INTERNATIONAL ORDER 
.•\nthology edited by Harry W. Flannery, 
'23. Westminster, Md.: The Newman 
Press, 1962. Hard cover, $5.75. 
The interest of the Popes in international 
affairs is well known, but there has not been a recent work providing all the specific recommendations and suggestions of the Holy See. Mr- Flannery, radio co-ordinator for the AFL-CIO, has gathered a completely indexed book of documents and commen­taries on peace and international relations from Leo XIII through John XXIII, in­dicating his purpose in the preface: "Catho­lics have a responsibility to be familiar with and to try to apply the principles set forth in the encyclicals. . . . May this volume help them to know the principles for peace and not to be satisfied with good intentions, but to proceed courageously to put them into practice." 




BOOK NOTES 
Mathematician Raimond A. Struble, who took his Ph.D. at Notre Dame before join­ing Armour Research Foundation, Illinois Tech, and now North Caroline State, has a new textbook. Nonlinear Differential Equations, published by McGraw-Hill in January and designed for ad\'anced under­grad or beginning graduate use. 
The Ne^vman Press has brought out a new study of the use of the vernacular in the Western rite of the Church entitled Rome and the Vernacular. The author, Fr. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 
Angelus A. De Marco, O.F.M., is a '56 liturgy alumnus, one of the few .American liturgiologists and the first among .American Franciscans. 
Beside Notre Dame, the Universit>- Press has published the following paperbacks priced at $1.95: Readings in Social Prob­lems, John J. Kane, ed.; The Limits and Divisions of European History, Oscar Ha­lecki; Newman and Gladstone: the Vatican Decrees, introduction by -AK-an S. Ryan: Towards a Better Understanding of History, Bernard Norling; Power and Democracy in America, William V. D'Antonio and Ho\vard 
J. Erlich, eds.; The Legends of the Saints, Hippoljte Delehaye, S.J.; The Church and 
A 
FEW YEARS BACK the Democratic candidate for President, on losing the election, said, "A strange thing hap­pened to me on my way to the White House." I take this occasion to para­phrase tliis and say, "A strange thing happened to me on my way to a Notre Dame meeting in Denver." I lost, too, but not any presidency. Just blood. And I must say I was disappointed in the color. I had been going through life thinking I was a blueblood. On diat night in Denver it was a plain old washed-out looking red. That's the way it goes, as the French say. If tliey say it. I take this opportunity to report that any rumors of my death are pre­mature. I'm happy to say it — and thankful to be alive. 
I don't like to be personal; dierefore I ask your pardon. I received so many wonderful cards and letters and flowers, that I, wth gratitude, thank all who took time and trouble. I also received many promises of prayers. I don't want anybody to ren^e on the prayers just because I'm up and about. These I can use anytime. And, for those of you who had not heard of my stay in the mile-high city, I will bring you up-to­date. Again, I ask your kindness. 
It was just one of those things. It has nothing to do with the job of rais­ing money. But, I do want it knovvn and for the record that I was in Denver to meet with our committee on money raising. The meeting went ahead as usual, but I did not get to it. Dick Bowes, our man from K.C., who han­dles the West, took care of tlie meeting. He took care of me first and got me to the hospital. At the hospital was a wonderful Notre Dame man with a long needle. Dr. Phil Clarke. We had our own private meeting — and as the say­ing goes, "it was for blood." This bleeding business or hemorrhage is not too bad. It does, however, ruin a room and does stain a carpet But . . . the 
the Liberal Society, Emmett J. Hughes; and Chaucer Criticism: Troilus and Criseyde, Minor Poems, Richard J. Schoecfc and Jerome Taylor, eds. Published at $1.45 is 
Chaucer Criticism: Troilus and Criseyde, at $1.75, Salvation of Nations, Jean Danielou; and at $2.25, Vol. I and Vol. II, Church and State, Don Luigi Stunto. Re­
cent hardbound titles: Soviet Policy Toward International Control of Atomic Energy, Joseph L. Nogee, $6.50: Spenser's "Shep­heardes Calendar": A Study in Elizabethan Allegory, Paul E. McLane, $5.00; Children and Older Strangers, poems by Ernest San­deen, $2.95: Values in America, Donald N. Barrett, ed., $4.50. 
New Dome paperbacks from Fidei Publishers include The Meaning of Sunday by J. A. Jungmann, S.J., for 50c, and the foUowng at 95c: The Triumph of Christ 
A. M. Henry, O.P.; The Meaning of Mar­riage: Sex, Love & Life, Vol. I, and Tht Meaning of Parenthood, Vol. II, Eugent 
S. Geissler, '41; What They Ask About Sin, Msgr. J. D. Conway; and The Adolescent Boy, W. Connell, S.J., & J. Gannon, S.J Clothbound releases include Tongues oj Fire by Leonce de Grandmaison, S.J., Book for Boys by Leo J. Trese, The New Negrc by Dr. K. B. Clark et al., and the second Yearbook of Liturgical Studies, edited bj John H. Miller, C.S.C., '49. — J. L 
MAN and the MOMENT 
By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C., '41 
secret is to slop bleeding on time. And for a fee (payable to the Notre Dame Foundation ) I will reveal this secret. 
About the hospital and the nuns who run it. The hospital is St. Joseph's. It is tlie oldest private hospital in Colo­rado. If I'm not mistaken it opened in 1873. It is an old place and big. They have about four hundred beds and are adding several hundred more at the cost of nine million dollars! They have to add — the night I was admitted, tlie only space left for a bed was on the O.B. Floor. I hasten to add that no medical history was achieved that night ... so I was moved shordy thereafter. 
The nuns at St. Joseph's Hospital are a great community. They are the Sisters of Charity of Leavenworth in Kansas. Most people think of Leaven­worth because of the Federal Peniten­tiary. But these nuns are free, bound only in their devotion and love of God. They are most loyal and a credit to the Church. Their work at present is in the western part of the countrj'. In these states they conduct hospitals and teach schools. If you want more infor­mation on them, I suggest you read "We Came North" by Sister Julian Gil­more, S.C.L., St. Mary College, Xavier, Kansas. It's a new book published in St. Meinrad's, Indiana. 
A stay in a hospital gives a new view to sufTering. It helps us to appreciate those who devote themselves to the patients. The nuns, for example, are on the floor at seven in the morning and go all day until nine at night. They squeeze in time for prayers and meals. Yet, they show tireless endurance, asi do the doctors, the nurses and the hos­pital help. Sometimes we think we put in long hours. Believe me— those who serve the sick must be very close to the heart of Our Lord. 
Suffering is sometiiing we do not value properly until we join the group who suffer. Not that I suffered. And it's a good thing I didn't. I'd be ver>' poor at it To see die old and the young and to see so many varieties of suffer­ing and pain . . . this is like a thirty-day retreat if we look at it as we should. And the only way to look upon it is as a blessing. This is not easy to do. I'm sure you have your share of suffering in your own home. Let these words of Sister Mary Helen, C.S.C, be a source of inspiration and of quiet meditation. . . . 
"Why did You give me arms? That I might draw All things to me? Or was it. Lord, that I Might lift all things to Thee? 
"Why did You give me hands? 
That I might clasp 
Earth's empty dross? 
Or was it. Lord, that I 
Might stretch them on a cross?" 

10 Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 
' . . . ocf ion .... is o task 
that belongs particulariy 
to Our sons. Me foify...' 

Mater et Maghtra 
means used to achieve more effectively a higher end, that of facilitating and promoting the spiritual perfection of mankind, both in the natural and su­pernatural order...." 
"Mater et Magistra" will challenge the mimls of men for years to come. The above excerpts are a small part of its message. But they contain the impli­cations that all who have enjoyed the privilege and power of a Notre Dame education must accept now a corollary obligation to repay that privilege and utilize that power for the proper ad­vancement of a social order in spiritual turmoil. 
Most of our Clubs are happily situ­ated in communities in which there are Catholic institutions of learning, whose heads and teachers can present this theme to the Notre Dame family (alumni, friends, parents of students, and others). 
The Catholic writers in our diocesan papers and national magazines are articulate students of this major con­tribution to the social thought of our time. 
Many Catholic organizations are de­voting the year 1962 to the study and discussion of the Encyclical. 
The obligation to know the Encycli­cal is a direct and urgent one for every Notre Dame man. And each has the supplemental obligation to translate it for the benefit of his milieu to the best of his ability. 
It is for this reason that the Alumni Board has chosen to continue the al­ready familiar patterns of "Mater et Magistra" and "Personal Responsi­bility" through the "Individual Alum­nus" and "The Notre Dame Family" as the theme for the 39th Annual Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. 

The traditional date in 1962 is Mon­day, April 30. In the newer tradition, to permit a broader benefit from top University personnel, dates for the ob­servance may be set by the Clubs any time within the several weeks following Easter Sunday, which in 1962 falls on April 22. 
— J.EA. 
^T N APRIL, 1924, Notre Dame was en-X joying a peak national spotlight in the wake of the football success in 1923 and its accurately projected repetition in the ensuing fall. 
University and alumni concern was for the proper perspective of the out­side world regarding Notre Dame's aca­demic and cultural achievements. 

No — we are not thinking that in —1962 the reverse is true. ~ We are convinced — and pleased — 
that the academic and cultural accom­plishments of Notre Dame have become far better and more widely known dur­ing these thirty-nine years. 
But we feel that today there are new and different circumstances confronting Notie Dame and Notre Dame men. These proWde a broader and deeper and more challenging opportunity for 

©ilumni everj-where. 
By logical but still fortuitous develop­ment, Universal Notre Dame Night has been building in its themes toward the broader understanding and more effec­tive articulation tiiat modem condi­tions demand of the educated Catholic, or the alumnus graduated from a Cath­olic university. 

Because this demand is expressed strongly and clearly on the eve of the ^Second Vatican Council in the magnifi­
•cent Encyclical of John XXIII, "Mater et Magistra," we are looking no further for our 1962 Universal Notre Dame Night theme. It is tnie that we asked our Clubs to use thb historic document as the theme for Universal Communion Sunday. But a reading of the Encycli­cal reveals that there is material in it for study and discussion and action 
^o r years to come. 
The major factor in our pursuit of this theme is the obvious need for the enlistment of trained intelligence for the proper interpretation of the great truths the Encyclical contains. There have already been evidences of confu­sion in the adaptation of the ideas em­bodied, which stresses the part that the educated Catholic must play if the Encyclical is to achieve its maximum results. 


1924 - 1962 
THIRTY-NINTH ANNUAL j UNIVERSAL NOTRE ,«DAME NIGHT - APRIL 30 
In the words of Pope John, "From instruction and education one must pass to action. This is a task that be­longs particularly to Our sons, the laity, since in virtue of their condition of life they are constantly engaged in activi­ties and in the formation of institutions that in their finality are temporal. 
"In performing such a noble task, it b essential that Our sons be profes­sionally qualified and carry on their occupation in conformity with its own proper laws in order to secure effective­ly tlie desired ends. It is equally neces­sary, however, that they act within the framework of the principles and direc­tives of Christian social teaching and in an attitude of loyal trust and filial obedience to ecclesiastical authority. Let them remember that when in the exe­cution of temporal affairs they do not follow the principles and directives of Christian social teaching, not only do they fail in their obligations and often violate the rights of their brethren, but they can even cast into discredit that very doctrine which, in spite of its in­trinsic value, seems to be lacking in a truly directive power. . . . 
"In Our paternal care as Universal Pastor of Souls, We urgently invite Our sons to take care that they keep alive and active in awareness of a hierarchy of values as they carry on their tem­poral affairs and seek their immediate ends. 
"Certainly, the Church has taught and always teaches that scientific tech­nical progress and the resultant material well-being are truly good and, as such, mark an important phase in human civilization. Nevertheless, these things should be valued according to their true worth, namely, as instalments or 

Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 IT 

They* Rallied Round 
the 

CHICAGO'S MAMMOTH RALLY had head table fealurin.;; (background, l.-r. Mr. and Mrs. W'm. Cahill, Fr. Thomas Brcnnan, M.C. and Mrs. Edward Stephan (Ei! at mike). City Chainnan and Mrs. Ray Durst, Fr. Lawrence Broestl, Appeal 

Dome 

Chairman and Mrs. Phil Faccenda, President and Mrs. Joe Pagliari. and John \Vitucki, Foundation assistant director. 
FROM HOO in Chicago to 
«) 
14 in Salina, Kansas, Irish alunmi gathered last Oct. 17 in 114 Challenge Rallies from 
Notre Dame Ciubs' 
coast to coast. Results to date are reported on page 3. 
Nafionwide Efforts 
Since October's Opener 
Have Pushed 
Challenge Totals 
€ 
Over $13 Million 
Of $18 Million Goal 

TRI-STATE R.\LLY in Vincennes, Ind., featured (l.-r.) Paul Brokhage; Rene Dognaux, Jr., toastmaslcr; Charles Shircliff, and Area Chairman James D. McQuaid. 
Reports and pictures of other rallies and observances of the 1961 Universal Xolrc Dame Communion Sunday begin on page 17. 
€) 
9} 

INDIANAPOLIS General Appeal Co-NEW YORK rally of chairmen included 
Cbaimian Francis Quinn (left) and Rally (from left) Ed Kobak, General Appeal 
Chairman William Kennedy ring up an Chairman Jim Shells, Msgr. Green, and on-the-spot solicitation of about $44,000. Club President Al Lcsmez. «)' 
12 Notre Dame Alumnus, Febmary-March, 1962 
CALUMET RALLY in Hammond featured (from left) Club Secrctar>- Bob \Velsh; 
Appeal Chairman Bill Travis, Special Gifts Chainnan Tim Calvin. Club President 
Ben Danko. Rally and General Chairman Austin Boyle. 
.•\T NEWARK AREA rally held in Glen Ridge, N. J.. Foundation Governor John Pindar (center) signs first card for General .'\ppeal Chairman Bill Kirchncr as Club President Bruce Dold (left) phones in pledge. 
• 
WEST SUBURBAN Chicago rally bus ("leave the fund raising to us") is admired (from left) by Mr. and Mrs. Bob Fanning, '47; Don Romano, '50; Chairman and Mrs. 
^o e Archibald, '30; Mr. and Mrs. Verne Kelley, '50; Mr. and Mrs. Frank Alurnane, '49; Dr. and Mrs. Jim Sullivan, '43. 
News of the 
NOTRE DAME 


LAW SCHOOL 

TRIAL UWYERS CONFERENCE 
On tlie initiative of Judge Lawless, 

the Notre Dame Law Association will 
sponsor a conference on "The Trial 
Lawyer— 1962," on Wednesday and 
Thin-sday of the Reunion AVeekend, 
that is, .June 6 and 7. There w-ill be 
panels dealing with negligence, crim­
inal law, anti-trust and administrative 
agencies: and top trial la\\7ers of the 
countiy will participate. Living accom­
modations will be available both at the 
Morris Inn and in one of the residence 
halls on campus. The committee in 
charge consists of Judge Lawless of 
Buffalo, New York, Valentine B. Deale 
of AVashington, D. C ; and Camille 
Gravel of Alexandria, La. 
A preliminary mailing, giving further 

details, will go out at an early date. 
MOOT COURT 

Oiu- Moot Court team was one of the two teams representing Region 9 (Indiana, Illinois and Wisconsin) in the final round of the National Moot Court Competition in New York in December. There our team defeated the University of Tulsa and lost the decision to the Universit)- of Tennessee. Members of the Notre Dame team were Louis N. Roberts of Evansville, Indiana and Joseph P. Albright of Parkersburg, 
W. Va. 
FACULTY 
On March 12 Professor Robert E. 

Rodes will deliver the first of 10 lec­
tures at Indiana University (South 
Bend Center) on "Modem Trends in 
Religious Thought." Succeeding lec­
tiues will be given by other members 
of the University of Notre Dame 
Faculty. 
Assistant Dean Broderick discussed "Labor Trends and Labor Problems" before tlie Rotar)' Club of Sturgis, Michigan on November 27. 
R.I.P. 

Paul M. Butler, '27L, former Demo­cratic National Committeeman, died in ^Vashington on December 30, 1961 and was buried from Sacred Heart Church on the campus. The Requiem High Mass was celebrated by Rev. Ed­mund P. Joyce, C.S.C., and Rev. John 
J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., delivered the sermon. 
Notre Dame AlumnuSy February-March, 1962 13 
Final 1961 Season Statistics ' 
TEAM STATISTICS RUSHING DEFENSIVE STATISTICS 
ND Opp. 
Player TC Yds. Avg. TACKLES: Buoniconti 74; 175 .... POINTS SCORED 182 Dabiero 92 637 6.9 Bill 50; Dabiero 47; Bitsko 46; 154 ..... . FIRST DOWNS 163 Lind 87 450 5.2 Roy 45; Sefcik and Lehmann 39 ... BY PASSING 57 Sefcik 72 335 4.7 41; Carollo 40; Hecomovich 38; 109 BY RUSHING 78 Snowden 32 169 5.3 Gray and Traver 35; Lind 31; 6 BY PENALTY 18 Gray 34 143 4.2 Lamonica 29; Burke 28; Kelly* 2245 YARDS RUSHING 1282 Lamonica 44 135 3.1 26; Hoerster 24; Williams and 475 TIMES CARRIED 464 Costa 32 118 3.7 Wilke 23; Budka 21; Murphy 4.73 Yards-per-try 2.76 
O'Hara 12 87 7.3 20; Schulz 17; Pfeiffer and Ste­961 YARDS PASSING 1591 Rutkowski 8 41 5.1 phens 16; Grau 15; Goberville 152 Passes Attempted 205 Naab 13 37 2.9 12; Simon 11; O'Hara 9; Mac­61 Passes Completed 107 Minik 5 39 7.8 Donald 8; Rutkowski 7; Costa, .401 Completion Percentage 522 Kantor and Viola 6; Minik and 
Kantor 5 39 7.8 
17 Passes Intercepted by 20 Olosky 5; Liggio and Powers 4; 
Phillips 5 10 2.0 
248 Yards Int Returned 346 Cullen and Perkowski 3; Ahern^ 
Budka 31 20 

3206 TOTAL OFFENSE 2873 Boulac, and Kolski 2; Bednar, 
MacDonald 2 3 1.5 
51 PUNTS 57 Mikacich, Murray, Naab, Snow­
Perkowski 1 -8

1902 Total Yards 2102 
den and Humenik 1. 37.2 Average 36.9 150 Yards Punts Returned 226 PUNTING 33 FUMBLES 32 PASSES INTERCEPTED 
Player No. Yds. Avg.
20 Ball Lost 11 Sefcik 18 709 39.4 Player No. Yds. TD Lamonica .... 29 1113 38.4 Dabiero 5 78 1 
SCORING 

O'Hara 2 70 35.0 Sefcik 3 56 0 
Player TD Fa PAT TP 
Budka 1 30 30.0 Lamonica 2 54 0 
Perkowski 0 5 16 31 TEAM 1 0 (Blk'd) Budka 2 3 qD Dabiero 4 0 0 24 Gray 1 25 0Lind 4 0 0 24 MacDonald 1 23 0Lsimonica 3 0 0 18 PUNT RETURNS Hecomovich 1 4 0KeUy 2 0 0 12 
Player No. Yds. Avg. 
BiU 12 0Naab 2 0 0 12 

Dabiero 11 97 8.8 
Minik 12 0 Traver 2 0 0 12 Sefcik 5 40 8.0 Traver 1 0 0 MacDonald 2 4 2.0 
Sefcik 2 0 0 12 
Budka 1 0 0 6 Gray 1 0 0 6 Rutkowski 1 4 4.0 
PASSES BROKEN UP 

O'Hara 1 0 0 6 Costa 1 3 3.0 
ft

Rutkowski 1 0 0 6 Pfeiffer 1 2 2.0 Sefcik 9; Dabiero and La­Snowden 1 0 0 6 monica 5; Lind and Gray 4; NOTRE DAME 24 5 16 175 Budka 3; Liggio and MacDonald OPPONENTS 23 8 20 182 KICKOFF RETURNS 2; Buoniconti, Cullen, Carollo, Player No. Yds. TD Goberville, Kantor, O'Hara, Sec­ret, Roy, Rutkowski and Wilke 
PASSES CAUGHT Costa 15 359 0 1. 
Player No. Yds. TD Dabiero 8 203 0 BLOCKED KICKS: Buoni­Traver 17 349 2 Gray 4 67 0 conti 2. 
Dabiero .... 10 201 1 Sefcik 3 57 0 OPPONENTS FUMBLES RE­KeUy 9 138 2 
O'Hara 1 31 0 
COVERED: Budka 3; Carollo Sefcik . _. 5 58 0 

Budka 1 10 0 
2; Wilke, BiU, KeUy, Hecomo­Goberville 7 79 0 Stephens 1 3 0 vich, Olosky and Viola 1. M^

Simon 2 59 0 Lind 4 4 0 Murphy 2 19 0 Snowden 2 14 0 PASSING 
0

Pericowski 1 25 Player Att. Camp. Int. Yds. TD Pet. Powers 1 22 
0 Budka 95 40 14 646 3 .421 

0Gray 1 1 

0 Lamonica 32 20 A 3O0 2
Minik 1 1 
0

Costa 1 -9 Rutkowski 5 1 2 25 0 .200' 
14 Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 
• jDirectory 
ALABAMA 
John A. O'Brien, Jr., '51, 1465 Linda Vista Dr., Regent Forest, Binninsham, Alabama. 
ARIZONA 

P/ioenur—Edward W. Murphy, '57. 1741 E. Tuclcey ; ^ Lane, Phoenix, Arizona. ;' 'ruclon—Paul A. Malz, '56, 7049 Callc Canis, Tuc­son, Arizona. 
ARKANSAS 
Fart Smith—James A. Gilker, '48, 3715 Free Ferry Rd., Fort Smith, Ark. UttU Rack—James E. Afadigan, '43, 4617 Crest-wood, Little Rock, Ark. 
CALIFORNIA 
Baim^eW—Ricliard Bamctt, '55, 63 Golden Slate Hwy., Bakersfield, Calif. 

• Cen/roi—Harold A. Bair, '23 (Secretary), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, Cal. 
Greater Long Beach Area—Edmond W. Sheenin, 

'31, 206 E. Fourth St., Long Beach 12, Cal. Los Angeles—Morton R. Goodman, '30, 9441 Wil­shirc Blvd., Beverly Hills, Cal. A'orMera—William C. ifcGo.ran, '41, 1709 New­castle Dr., Los Altos, Calif. Orange CounI)—John E. DcCourscy, '53, 14742 Borromeo Ave., Phcentia, Calif. Sacramento—^Alfred A. Kaclin, '55, 2784 Harkncss St., Sacramento 18, Calif. San Diego—Trcd Fowler, '41, 4232 Stanton Rd., San Diego, Cal. San Fernando Valley—^John N. Leonard, '34, 8558 Shirley Ave., Northridge, Cal. ASun Gabriel Valley—JO)M P. Frampton, '49, 1450 Hacienda PI., Pomona, Cal. 
COLORADO 
Colorado 5/)nnj;—William J. Donelan, Jr., '29, 1800 Mesa Ave., Broadmoor, Colorado Springs, Colo. flentw—Carl F. Eibcrger, '52, 1300 Telephone BIdg., Denver 2, Colo. 
CONNECTICUT 
Connecticut Valley—James F. Flaherty, Jr., '53, 12 

^ Tumblebrook Rd., Rocky Hill, Conn. ^Fairfield Cotin(y—William Mulrenan, '37, 100 Tide-mill Terrace, FairHeld, Conn. Naugatuck Valley—Domenic A. Narducci, Jr., '52, 44 Beacon Manor Rd., Naugatuck, Conn. New Haven—^John F. Kerrigan, '49, 95 Greenway Street, Hamden, Conn. 
DELAWARE 
Richard P. Hairsinc, '55, 2219 Heam Rd., Fairfa-x, Wilmington 3, Dclatrare 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
Robert N. Hutchison, '55, 12 East Lenox St., Che\7 Chase, Md. 

% FLORIDA 
Cenlral—Doiald J. Smyth, '49, 955 Leigh Ave., Orlando, Fla. 
Fort Lauderdale—Tbatias J. Walker, '42, Walker In­surance Associates, Inc., The New Blount BIdg., 25 E. Los Olas Blvd., P.O. Box 1020, Ft. Lauder­dale, Fb. 

Greater Miami—Jama A. Smith, '48, 672 N.E. ; 98th St., Miami Shores, Fla. Ifortk Florida—Ceroid B. Johnson, '50, 2644 Red ^ Fox Road, Orange Park, Fla. Palm Beach Coimly—Edward D. Lewis, '54, 1114 Russlyne Dr.. West Palm Beach, Fla. 
 of Clubs and Their Presidents 
/'eniKofa—Patrick J. Gunning, '53, 3770 Summer Dr., Pensacola, Fla. 
St. Petcrsburg-Tampa—i,iark E. Mooiiey, '26, 4525 
Gaines Rd.j Tampa, Fla. 
GEORGIA 
Atlanta—James E. Barnard, '49, Acting President, 2042 Juanita St., Decatur, Ga. 
HAWAII 
Donald C. itichado, 50, 99-I49D Hcen Way, Aiea, Hawaii. 
IDAHO 
J. Richard Cornell, '59, 2408 Broadway, Boise, Idaho. 
Idaho Falls—James M. Brady, '29, P.O. Bo.t 2148, 
Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS 
Aurora—Edward J. Fanning, '39, Fanning Chevrolet, Inc., 230 S. Broadway, Aurora, III. Central Illinois—^Tliomas Hamilton, Jr., '53, 3349 
S. Fifth St., Springfield, 111. Chicago—^Joseph L. Pagliari, '53, 1125 N. Knight, Park Ridge, III. Decatur—Gcocgc H. Hubbard, '54, 139 W. Main St., Decatur, III. Eastern Illinois—Edward J. Layden, '41, Hoopeston, III. Fox Valley—Gcorso R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St., Elgin, III. 
Joliel—Eusenc R. Funk, '59, 715 Second Aicnue, Joliet, III. 
Kankakee Valley—Thomas J. Reynolds, '54, 343/2 
S. Winfield, Kankakee, III. McHenry County—George K. Costello, '40, 395 Highland .-\vc.. Crystal Lake, III. Peona—Thomas Eckland, '53, 2715 Overhill Rd., Peoria, lU. 
Roct/orrf—Albert Carroll, '22, 206 West State St., Rockfoid, III. 
Rock River Valley—Luke R. Morin, '53, 523 K. 
DLxon Ave., DLton, III. Southern Cook County—Robert N. CalTarclli, '55, 231 E. 22nd St., Chicago Heights, III. 
INDIANA 

Calumet Districl—Bea R. Danko, '51, 1801 Cleve­land Ave., Whiting, Ind. Eastern /nrfiomi—William B. Cronin, '31, 521 E. Jefferson, Hartford City, Ind. SMor/—Austin Gildca, '30, 5 St. Joseph .Manor, Elkhart, Ind. £:i<:FU!/j//e—Donald F. Haller, '43, 716 S. Villa, E\'ansville 14. Ind. Fort Wayne—Robert R. Lutlicr, '49, 443 Kinnard Ave., Ft. WajTic, Ind. /nifmna^io/ij—William S. Sahm, '51, 4218 Ruckle Street, Indianapolis 5, Ind. Michigan City—^William C. Zehnpfenning, '50, 414 
E. Coolspring Ave., Michigan City, Ind. St. Joseph Valley—M. Robert Cahill, '34, Athletic Dept., Notre Dame, Ind. Terre Haute—Charles W. Mctzger, '48, 1031 S. Brown, Terre Haute, Ind. 
Wabash Valley—James W. Glaser, '50, P.O. Box 59, Lafayette, Ind. 
IOWA 

BaWmglon—Richard Delaney, "37, 1000 N. Fifth St., Burlington, Iowa. Cedar Rapids—George Benning, '49, RJl. 3, Cedar Rapids, Ioi\'a. Del Moines—James F. Boesen, '54, 4109 30th St., Des Moines 10, Iowa. 
Dubuqut—Re^. William Kiuisch, '37, Our Lady of Seven Dolors Rectory, Festina, Itma, Sioux-Land—Raymond B. Duggao, '43 (Secretary), 3244 Jackson, Sioux City 4, Isira. 
Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, E. Mo­line)—Jerome S. CuBigan, "31, 1521 — 26lh Ave., Rock Island, HI. 
KANSAS 
Eastern Kansas—T. Henry DevUn, '49, 2203 CoUege, Topeka, Kansas. Satina—Albeit J. Sch%varti, '37, 130 S. Frent St., Salina, Kansas. lfiV«»a—John L. Weigand, '54, 303 N. Dellrosc, Wichita 8, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY 
John E. Mueller, '52, 807 Huntington Rd., Louis­ville 7, Ky. 
LOUISIANA 

^'ew Orleans—Johts E. Petitbon, '52, C. A. Sporl & Co., Commerce BIdg., New Orleans, La. Northern Louisiana—Georse J. Despot, '45, 517 Market, Shrevcport, La. 
MAINE 
William M. S.iller, '57, 34 Windsor Ave., -Augusta, Maine. 
MARYLAND 

Baltimore—Willbm L. Gaudreau, '53, Professional BIdg., 330 N. Charics St., Baltimore 1, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS 

Berkshire County—James J. O'Btien, '34, 197 
Bartlett Ave., Pittsfield, Mass. BoKon—Charles W. Powers, '45, 1047 County St.. Somerset, &fass. 
Pioneer Valley-Daniel J. O'Connell, '22, II Pyn­
chon Rd., Holyoke, Mass. 
MICHIGAN 

Battle Creek—Raymond R. Allen, '40, 409 Orchard 
Place, Battle Creek, Mich. Berrien County—Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, NUes, Mich. Blue Water Dislricl—Willam L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. flMriom—Jerome W. Kelly, '53, 8S64 Rockland, Detroit 39, Mich, flrtroi/—WiUiam C. Roney. Jr., '49, 2 Buhl BIdg., Detroit, Mich. Flint—Lawrence C. Sa.\e, '54, 801 Kcnnngton Ave., Flint 3, Mich. Gogebic Haute—Eugene R. Zinn, '40, Wright k Zinn, Michaels BIdg., Ironwood, ftCchigan. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—^Robert Kirdw gessner, '52, Union Bank of Mich., 98 Ottawa, N.W., Grand Rapids 2, &Iich. 
Hiawathaland—Donald T. Trottier, '44, 6M lod­ington St., Escanaba, Mich, /ocfaon—Cyril J. Hartman, '23, 612 Webb St.. Jackson, Mich. Kalamasoo—Joseph O'Kecfc, '44, O'Keefe Motor Sales, 433 W. Water St., Kalamazoo, Mich. Lmw'nf—Robert H. Mooney, Jr., '52, 2329 Cum­berland Rd., Lansing 6, Mich. Monroe—Hugh J. Laughna, '40, 1587 RivTrview, Monroe, Mich. Muskegon—James Morse, '57, 2337 Vincent Rd., Muskegon, Mich. Sa^naa, ralfey—William C. Hurley, '25, I7U Gratiot, Saginaw, Mich. Top of MicUgan—Edtatd L. Mobney, '17, 416 East Sute St., Cheboygan, Mich. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 15 
MINNESOTA 

DututhSupetioT—^Jamcs P. Kcougli, '35, (in-asurcr). 2705 East Fifth St., Duliilh, .Minn. Timn Cl(l"«—Robert M. Regan. '52, 1164 \ortli­
wcjtcm Bank BIgd.. Minneapolis, ^^nn. 
MISSISSIPPI 

William H. -Miller, '30. 755 Gillespie PI.. Jack­son. MLss. 
MISSOURI 

Kansas City—(Mo. and Kans.)—^John T. Massmjn. "56, 1207 Romany Rd., Kansas City, Mo. St. toau-—Robert F. Cliickry, '54, 9810 -Madison. Reck Hill 19. Mo. 
MONTANA 

Bernard Graincj-, '43, ^G lllh Avcttnc, Helena. Mnnt. 
NEBRASKA 

Omaha and Council Bluffs—D. Hughes Wilcox, '52. 510 S. 53th St., Omaha, Nebr. 
NEW JERSEY 

CenlroJ—Thomas F. Kcnneally, '30, Box 257, Mid­dleb-osh, N-J-Ntw Jmcy—R. Bn:cc Dold, '53, 9 Fcmcliir Ter­lacc. Glen Ridge, iV.J. South Jersey—^Jamcs B. CarMin, '56, 624 Clinton Ave., HadJonlicId, .V.J. 
NEW MEXICO 

Francis P. Hudson, '54, 2728 Palomas Dr., X.E.. AIbuquerq".ic, N.M. 
NEW YORK 

Buffalo—Harr>* A. Quinn, Jr., '49, 306 Lamarck Dr-, Snyder, N.Y. Capital District—C. F. Regan, Jr., '27. 441 Louden-ville Rd-, Albany II, N.Y­Cenlrat—John R. Vamey, '53, 525 Robineau Rd.. S>Tacusc 9, N-Y. CoWcn C;rc/«—James F. McVay, '42, 49 Parkway Lane, Bradford, Pa. Mid-Hudson Valley—Dotaid J. Re>Tiolds. '33, 118 South -'\vc-, Poughkecpsie, N.Y. Mohawk Faffcj^Kcnncth F- ^fu^phy, '54, 32 Emer­son Ave., Utica 3, N.Y-New York C;i>—Al Lesmez, '45, 122 Tullamorc Rd-Garden City, L.I., N.Y. Rochester—^William J. Dempsey, '53, 67 Harvct Dr., Fairport, N.Y. Scheneclady^RoiKn L. Scliafcr, '48, 1100 Wavell 
Road, Schenectady, N.Y. Syracuse—^Sec '^Central New York" Southern Tier—EdAnn Bonliam, '09, 329 Hamilton 
St., Fiiinted Post, N.Y. Tiiplt Cities—Gcoigc J. Haines. '42, 63 Davis, Binghamton, N.Y. 
NORTH CAROLINA 

Donald Kclsey, '48, 1115 Westridgc Rd., Gn:ens­l>oro, N.C. 
NORTH DAKOTA 

William Dancr, '53, 1106 So. Highland Acres. Bismarck, North Dakota. 
OHIO 

.4<:ron—George Dekany, '49, 318 Kenilivorth Or.. Akron 13, Ohio. Cuii/aii—Edi«ard A. Machuga, '55, 3207 Windair PI., S.W., Canton, Ohio. Cino'iMii/i—John F. McCormick, '48, 8924 Blossom Dr., Cincinnati 36, Ohio. 
C/ctc/iind—Robert E. Dowd, '41, 19413 Scotlsdale Blvd., Sliaker Heights 22, Ohio. Columbus—Richard Kasberg, '48, 861 S. Cassingliam Rd., Columbus 8, Ohio. Dayton—T)r. Louis M- Haley, '50. 409 Rubicon Rd., Da>-ton 9, Ohio. Hamilton—^Jerome A. Ryan. '41, 353 South "D " St.. Hamilton. Oluo. 
•Wo^ij^cW—John C. O'Donnell, '24, 191 Lind .Ave., Jfansfield, Ohio-iVor/Aar-Wcm—Paul Doran, '37. 1505 W. Wayne St-, Lima, Ohio. Ohio Valley—^Jamcs J. Haranzo, "52. 26 Courtland, Wheeling, W. Va. ^nndarfr)—Richard C. Holder, "47, 2603 Eastwood Drive, Sandusky, Ohio. Tiffin—Fred J. Wagner- "29, 152 Sycamore St-, "Tillin, Ohio­Toledo—Terry E- 0"Lot:ghlin- "32. 2808 Terrancc Dr., Toledo 12, Ohio. 
Vounpstoivn—Thomas E. Kerrigan. "44. 133 East Jtldwm Ave., Youngstown. Ohio. 
OKLAHOMA 

Oklahoma City—He. Al R- Drescher, '38, 4415 
N. Thompson, Oklahoma City, Okla-

rubn—John G. Madden, '48, 2504 E. 46lh PI., Tulsa. Okla. 
OREGON 

C:iarl.-s Slatt, '33. 2833 X-E- 19tli -Ave., Port­land 12. Oregon. 
PENNSYLVANIA 

Central Pcnnsyivanh—Dr. G«):5c W. Katlur, Ml, 
U.S. Bank Bldg,. Johnstown. Pa. £rfir—Raymond W. Lcglcr, '57. 2323 Sassafras St., Eric, Pa. //arruiurg—Donald R. Meek. '50, 520 Park Ave., Xcw Cumberland, Pa. Lehigh Vallcy—Rohcrt G. Stralcy, '53, 1976 Pcnn­sjiv-ania Ave, Betlilchcm, Pa. Monongahda Valley—Louis W. .Aponc, '41, 321 Market St., Brov\-nsviIIc, Pa. Philadelphia—Barton B. Johnson, '48, 310 Fairliill Rd., \Vynnc\vood, Pa. r;//j6urgfi—Peter F. Flahertv. "51, 5820 Elwood St., Pittsburgh 32, Pa. Scranton—Thomas P. Comcrford, '42, 415 C(art Ave, Clarks Si-mmit, Pa. IVilkes-Barre—Raymond J, Sobota, *49, 760 Miners Bank, WIIkes-Barre, Pa. 
miUamsport—Edward F. O'Dt-a. '57, 1254 Park Ave.. Williamrport. Pa. 
RHODE ISLANT) AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS 
Philip B. Toole, '32, 185 Union St., Attleboro, Mass. 
SOUTH CAROLINA 

Joseph D. J-dge, Jr.. '51. 22 Moon! Dr., West­wood, Charleston, S.C. 
SOUTH DAKOTA 

Black //i//j—Bernard Gira, '10, Custer. South D.-tknIa. 
TENNESSEE 

C/ia/lanoofio—Herbert J. Haile, Jr., '55, W, C. Teas Co., 1212 McCallie Ave.. Chattanooga, Tcnn­-l/«m/iAil—John M- Reynolds, '56, 409 Cecilia Dr., Afemphis, Tcnn-
TEXAS 

ZJff//af—Martin R. O'Connor, *5I, 3174 Catamorc Lane, Dallas 29. Texas. B /'fljo—Edward T. Jennings, '53, 312 Olivia Circle, El Paso, Texas. 
Houston—T. George McHale, *23, 505 Smart, -* Houston 6, Texas. wl Midland-Odessa-H, B>-nic O'Neill, '45, 703 Boj-d, Xfidland, Texas. Rio Grande Valley—Robert Aziz, '49, 1205 W. Elizabeth, Brou'nsx'iltc, Texas. San i^RfORio—Mark E, Watson, Jr., '57, 345 Burr Rd., San Antonio, Texas. 
UTAH 

Don J- Ronev, '58, 2046 Sylvan, Salt Lake Cilv 8, Utah. 
VIRGINIA o 

E. Milton Farley, '51, 4900 Riverside Dr., Riclunoud 25, Va. 
rii/CTolcr—Philip L. Russo, '49, 8033 Wcdgcwood Drive, Norfolk, Va-
WASHINGTON 

Spokane—Bernard J- Smyth, '55, E.-ist 1911 Thurston, Spokane 34, Wash­lr«fern—Joseph G. Lotta, '51, 215G North 95tli St., Seattle, Wash. 
e 
WEST VIRGINIA 

Rudolph L- Di Trapano, '30, 2308 Kanawha Blvd., Cliarleston, West Virginia. 
Ccnfra(—John D- Julian, '40, P.O. Box 2C63, Clarksburg, W. Va-
WISCONSIN 

Fox River foZ/e)'—Wlliani R- Maher, Jr. 780 Oak St., Neenah, Wis. Green i?a>'—Tliomas C. Murphy, *33, c/o Farmer's Friend, 310 Pine St., Green Bay, Wis. LaCrosse—i. William Murphy, '32, 1323 King St., © LaCrosse, Wis. -Vcrn'ff—Augustus H. Stange, '27, 102 S. Prospect, Merrill, Wis. Milwaukee—}o\tn Wilkinson, '56, 426 N- 91st, Wau­watosa. Wis. h'orlhuesl Wisconsin—C. T. Downs, '33, 219^ 
S. Batstow, Eau Claire, Wis. South Central—John W. Roach, '27, 138 Glenwav 
St., Madison, Wis. Southeastern—Edwin E. Ra>-mond, Jr., '49 2820 
21st St., Racine, Wis. 
WYOMING e 

Patrick H. Meenan, Acting Pres., *49, Midwest BIdg., P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wyo. 
FOREIGN CLUBS 

Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24 (key man), Moreau House, 28 Zindabahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. 
CoBorfa—Paul H. LaFramboise, '34, 400 Charcst Blvd., Quebec, Canada. 
Chile—^Rcv. Francis A. Provcnzano, C.S.C., '42, St. George's College, Avcn. Pedro de Valdlvia 1423, Santiago. Chile. 
£cua//or—John Moeller, '47, P.O. Box 213, Quito, Ecuador. ^ ^Uant/o—Conrado Sanchez, Jr., '54, 83 Mayon St., Quezon City, Philippines. Mexico City—Tclmo DeLandcro, '37, Eugenio Sue 220, Mcwco City. Panama—WiUiam J. Sheridan, '34, Box 98, Balbai 
Heights, Canal Zone. P*™—Enrique LtUIi, *45, Cuzco 440, Lima, Peru. Puerto RiVo—Vice-Prcs.: Paul McManus, '34, Calle 
Earie, No. 4, Condado, Saniurce, I^ierto Rico. Aomf—Secretary: Vjncent G. McAIoon, '34, P^lazzo^ Bratxacdo, Largo Brancacdo, 82, Rome, Italy; ^ 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus, Fehruary-Marck, 1962 Telepbone 730002. 
 CALENDAR 

Regularly scheduled club meetings that have been reported to the Alumni Office are as follows: 
BUFFALO—First Tuesday of every month at 8:30 p.m., Hotel Lenox, 715 Dela­ware Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. In addition, a table marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo" is reser\'cd for lunch at K. of C, 506 Delaware Ave., Buffalo, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 
CEDAR RAPIDS—Communion Breakfast Meeting, fourth Sunday of even months: 
8:00 a.m. Mass at alternating parishes; 
9:00 breakfast meeting at Bishops. 

CENTRAL OHIO—First Monday (night) of every month. Junior Rose Room, Vir­ginia Hotel, Columbus, Ohio. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—Second Wed­nesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High St., Perth Amboy. 
i DECATUR — Monthly luncheons, fourth Wednesday of every month at Elks Club, Decatur, 111. 
DENVER—First Wednesday of each month at the Na\'arre Restaurant. 
DETROIT—First Monday of each month, luncheon, at 12 noon, Ye Oldc Wa^-ne Club, 1033 Wayne St. 
ERIE—First Friday dinner meeting with wives, .'Vntler's Restaurant, 7:00 p.m., Sept. thru June, Erie, Pa. 
k FORT LAUDERDALE—Second Thursday of each month, dinner at 7:30 pm.. Gov­ernor's Club Hotel, Ft. Lauderdale, F.'.-". 
KANSAS CITY—Call Plaza 3-2160. 
MIAMI—Call Jim Smith (FR 7-2341) or Bob Probst (FR 4-0507) for time and location of meetings. 
PHILADELPHI.A—Second Tuesday of each month (night) at the Philopatrian Club. 
.PITTSBURGH —Weekly luncheon at the Variety Club, Thursday, in the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, 12 noon. 
ROCHESTER — Monthly luncheon, first Monday, at 12:15 p.m.. Home Dairy, 111 East Main, second floor. 
ROME—Open House daily, Palazzo Bran­caccio. Largo Brancaccio 82, ph. 730002. Ask for Vince McAloon, secretary. 
ST. LOUIS — Monthly luncheon, stag, 12 noon. Key Club in Hotel Jefferson, St. Louis, Mo., second Monday. 
SOUTHWESTERN WISCONSIN — First Friday of every month, noon luncheon I get-together at the Racine Elks Club. 
TERRE HAUTE — Third Tuesday of every month, 7:30 p.m. Meeting at the Terre Haute House. 
WASHINGTON —Weekly luncheon, each Tuesday, 12 noon, Touchdo\vn Club, 1414 I Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 
WILKES-BARRE—First Tuesday of every I month, luncheon meeting, 12:15 pjn., in the main dining room. Hotel Sterling. 
ALUMNI 

Baltimore 
On November 15, 1961, the Club lictd its first noon luncheon of the year at Marty's Park Plaza Restaurant. The guest spcahcr, Ll, Gen. JVtIro A. del Vallc, broiiglit the experience of Ins 30-ycar niilitar>' service from Haiti and Santo Domingo in 1916 through tlie campaigns of Guadalcanal, Guam and Okinawa as a division commander in World War ll. He spoke nn the topic. "Constitutional Crisis." 
Tlic annual Notre Oanu' Communion Breakfast followed Mass at the Cathedral of Mar>- Our Queen on December 10 at BERNIE LEE's Penn Hotel, Towson. The guest speaker was REV. JOHN JOSEPH Gx\LU\GHER, consulting editor of the Catholic Review, discussing "The Printer's Devil in God's Service." JACK OWENS, BILL GAUD­RE.\U, and BERNIE CRONIN were in charge of arrangements. Plans were formulated for a dance on Saturday, Feb. 17, at the National Guard .Armory, Towson, Md. BILL KE;\RY is the dance chainiiau. 
Berkshire County 
The second annual corporate Comniuniun and Breakfast was held on Universal Notre Dame Sunday at Shadowbrook, Novitiate of the Society of Jesus, in Lenox, Mass. Thirty-live alumni and friends attended Mass celebrated bv thr Club's chaplain, REV. CHARLES VAN DUREN, a Sacred Heart Father. The REV. RELIX TALBOT, S.J., of Shadowbrook, spoke at the breakfast. 
Tlie committee was chaired bv FR:\NK J. KELLY, Lenox, assisted by DR. JOSEPH WILK, Adams, JAMES A. DRESSER, Great Barrington. EDU'ARD H. REr\G.-\N, Pittsfield, and DENNIS SULLIVAN, Lenoxdale. 
President J.-VMES J. O'BRIEN announced the appointment of the major committees for the spring activities: Nominating Committee—D.WID KLINE, Chairman; FRANK J. KELLY, DENNIS SUL­LIV.VN and JAMES DRESSER. Awards Committee —DR. JOSEPH WILK. Chairman; DR. BERNARD AUGE and DR. FRED GABRIEL. Universal Notre Dame Night—FRANK M. LINEHAN, Chairman; ROBERT NESBIT, AL BZDULA and RAY PAIN­LEY. 
—FRANK LINEHAN, Stcy 

Boston 
The Boston Cltib obser\'ed Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday on December 10, 1961 by attend­ing Mass at Holy Cross Cathedral. Our chaplain. RT. REV. CORNELIUS DONOVAN, '09, was celebrant. Breakfast at tlie Red Coach Grille followed the Mass, with MOST REV. BISHOP J.AMES L. CONNELLY, D.D., Bishop of Fall River, delivering a talk on the recent enc>'clical of Pope John XXIII, "Mater ct Magistra." Wc were fortunate in hear­ing baseball anecdotes as told by "HAL" GOOD­NOUGH, nationally famous humorist and former public relations director of the Milwaukee Braves. Other head table guests included REV. RICHARD 
H. SULLIVAN, C.S.C., 'St, president of Stonehill College; REV. LOUIS PUTZ, C.S.C.; BROTHER COLEMAN, C.S.C.; CHARLES POWERS, '45, Club President, and WILLIAM E. DACEY, JR., *49, Club Foundation Drive Director. A word of thanks to Chairman CHARLES COLTO.N, '29, for a fine aflfair. The Victory Dance planned for Novem­ber 11, 1961 had to be cancelled at the last moment because of the Blue Laws of the Commonwealth. The Officers and Directors hope that all will make cver>' effort to attend Universal Notre Dame Night in the Spring. 
The Scholarship aM'ard drawings were held at the University Club on November 13, 1961 under the direction of Chairman NEIL FOWLER, '47. The winners: 1st prize, $250 cash in Hcu of trip, Nora 
M. Hill, Worcester; 2nd prize, $100, A. Div\er. Dorchester; 3rd prize, BC-HC football tickets, Alpha Construction Company; 4th prize, patriot football tickets, C. J. Tougas, Brockton; 5tli prize, shore dinner, F. J. Schnulder; and 6th prize, N.D. car robe, E. C. Como, Framingham. 
At this time Chairman BILL DACEY, '49, has 
announced that the Club has reached 200% of .its goal set fur the drive. It is hoped that any viho have not sent in their pledge cax^, no matter how small, will do so in order that the Club will be able to have a 100% subscription. No gift will be overlooked no matter how small, and the University has facilities to record all large gifts. 
CLARENCE J. TOUGAS, father of Qub director ROGER TOUGAS, '58, died suddenly in New York recently. To the- Tougas family our prayers and profound sorrow. 
Newcomers residing in the Hub temporarily or. permanently are asked to notify the Club Secretary of their residence here and their names will be added to our mailing list. The Club address is Box 887, Boston 3, Mass. 
—JIM MURPHV, '56, Seo' 

Buflfdlo 
Our guests at the September 9th meeting were the young men embarking on their Notre Dame careers along with their fathers. Espcdally faonored was LEONARD IVILTBERGCR of Cardinal Doa^ ­erty High School. Leonard was the year's wiuier of the BuHulo Club's annual Scholarship award. Chairman JACK LA VIGNE, President HARRY QUINN, JIM CLAUSS, JACK CX>NSIDINE and GARY WEBSTER served on the scholarship, com­mittee. 
About 300 alumni, their wives and friends, gathered at the Statler Hilton October 17th for the Foundation's "Challenge Rally." The evening began with cocktails at six. followed by dinner at seven. The turnout by the Buffalo Club was one of the five largest in a coast to coast meeting of 173 Alumni Clubs. WILLLAM B. LAWLESS, JR., BufTalo special gifts chairman, said that $7500.00 had been raised locally. ANTHONY W. BRICK, JR., is General Solicitation Chairman. Before the beginning of the closed circuit telephone hookup, our Chaplain, REV. FRANCIS B. BARATTO, gave a \-ery inspiring talk. HENRY W. BALLING, JR., was diairman of this roost successful evening. 
^Iore than 250 .Alumni members and their families celebrated our annual family commiinioD breakfast on December 3rd. Our Chaplain, FATHER BARAT­TO, celebrated Holy %fas5 at 9:00 A.M. m Blessed Sacrament Chapel, attached to the new Cathedral on Delaware Avenue. A family style breakfast was 5cr\-ed following the Mass at the Hotel Lenox. REV. JOSEPH F. MAGNER, assistant pastor of St. Mark's Church, was our q>eaker. As duunnan, JIM CLAUSS was responsible for this, our largest family turnout. 
The Buffalo Club's excursion to the Syracuse vs. Notre Dame football game was a social success. Everyone in attendance had a most enjoyable week­end. In the true spirit of his fraternity, the chair­man, banker BILL KANE, made a profit for the Club. It was $936. GENE OOYLE was the raffle winner of two free round trip tickets on thb excursion. 
Joan and BOB WEBER were chairmen of our annual Christmas Dance held in the Terrace Roont of the Statler Hilton Hotel on Saturday evening, December 30th. JIM DONOUGHUE was ticket chairman. 
MAURICE QUINN has announced that our annual retreat xrill be held on the second weekend in April, at the St. Columban's Retreat House in Derby, New York. 
—JIM CASEY, '44, Secy 

Calumet Region 
Calumet's annual Notre Dame Family Communion Breakfast M-as held on Nov. 5, 1961 at Blcucd Sacrament Church, Gary. Breakfast m the new school dining room followed Mass. FATHER JAMES CONROY of Our Sunday Visitor was gtMst sgeaker. Secretary BOB WELSH was duurman, assisted by TONY KUHARICH, the officers and directors. 
The Christmas Dinner Dance was hdd on Decern­her 27 at the famous Martinique, Restaurant, Ever­green Park, Chic^o. 
President BEN DANKO, special ^ U chamau TIMOTHY GALVIN, general appeal chainan 
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 IT 
BILL TRAVIS, and city chainnan AUSTIN BOYLE  of SjTacuse University, to speak. Coach Schwartz- in the Chicago Sheraton Hotel. JIM MALOOLV  
report a substantial portion of the Calumet quota  walder talked among other things about games being  was chairman of the dance, which the club hopes  ^  
achiei'ed since tlic Challenge Rally at Woodmar  won or lost on mistakes that are not made on the  will become a successful annual affair. FRANK  
Countrv' Club, Hammond.  field. He was referring to the players — but he for­ REILLV and GEORGE GRABLE assisted in the  

Canton 
With our president ED .\L\CHUGA leading the u-ay, the Notre Dame Club of Canton and Stark Count>- has made an all-out effort to get some of the Ford millions. The challenge rally was held for Monday, Oct. 16, in the meeting room of the North Canton branch of the First National Bank. MAUR­ICE F. ZINKj local campaign chairman, said he u-ould settle for nothing less than 100 per cent participation in this great endeavor. President MACHUGA said he hoped to muster a \-igorous campaign to cover all possible prospects in short order. Solicitors were selected and bricfpd by Chair­man ZINK and put to work. 
Also on the minds of our president and his fellow 

officers last fall were plans for the annual Holiday 
Ball, lield during the Christmas season. TIic scholar­
ship fund has been growing rach >-ear with proceeds 
from this affair and its first bcncficjar^- is expected 
to be named this spring. 
Last fall's big affair for N.D. men here was the 

first annual summer stac which was appropriatelv 
named "The Shillelagh Su-at." JOHN A-Nf/VN and 
BOB RICHARD were chairmen for the event which 
was initiated as the result of a preference poll of 
the club taken at the Universal Night dinner. John 
walked off with one trophy for the best gross score 
and LARRY MOTTER won the second for low net. 
The Elms Country* Club near Massillon was the 
scene of this golf, gab and chow fcst. Plans already 
arc being made to make this event even bigger and 
better next year. 
—JAMES WEBER 


Central Florida 
Through the initial efforts of JLM MAHONEY, 

our local Foundation Chairman, along «-ith the 
leadership and hard work of two local "old timers," 
DON SM\TH and ROY LAUGHLIN, a local 
Notre Dame Alumni Club has been organized and 
is in operation. Tlic Officers are: DON SM\TH, 
president; ROY I^UGHLIN, vice president; W. H. 
RICKE, secretary-; and LARRY DILLON, treasurer. 
Our first get-together uas tlie October 17th 

Foundation rally at the Cherry Plaza Hotel in 
Orlando. Wc had a grand turnout. The name of 
the club Is to be the CENTR.\L FLORIDA 
ALUMNI CLUB OF THE UNIVERSm' OF 
NOTRE DAME. 
—BILL RICKE, Secy 


Central New Jersey 
Election of officers was held at the November 

meeting. The slate for the coming year is as 
follows: TOM KENNEALLY, president; BILL 
RICHARDSON, \ice-prcsident; BILL MULLER, 
secretary-; and FRANK CUNNINGHAM, treasurer. 
Headed by JACK MULLEN, the Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday u-as observ'cd with Mass at St. Bernard's Churcli, Plainficld; and the Com­munion breakfast at the Park Hotel in Plalnheld. The main speaker \v-3s FATHER JOHN A. FLYNN, CJkf., fonner president of St. John's Unix-ersity and presently Provincial Prefect of Studies of the Eastern Pronncc of the Congregation of the Mission. TTiirty alumni attended. 
At the last meeting of tlie Challenge Drive area <±ainaan, headed by DAN GRACE, o\er 520,000 in pledges with 75% participation was reported. We hope to come as close as possible to the 100^ mai^ by the end of the campaign. 
—BILL MULLER, Src>­


Central New York 
October u'as a busy month with a big turnout at the Rally. Co-chairmen WILLIAM HASSETT and THOMAS QUINLAN of the Foundation Fund Dri\-c report that the returns are good and that we should come close to 100% participation. Later in the month the annual raffle w:as held at Casey's Inn and two ticlcets to the N.D.-Syracuse game were \TOn by LOUIS TURRI. 
New officcn arc: JOHN R. VARNEY, '53, president; THOMAS W. STUBLER, JR., *54, \ice­
prcsidcnt; FREDERICK T. DELANY, '55, treasurer; and JAMES E. SCH&flDT, '51, secretary. 
In November a smoker was held a few davs belore the NJ).-Syracuse game. DON KEMPLE, smoker diairman, was able to get BEN SCHWARTZ­WALDER and athletic director LOU ANDREAS got to mention the ofHdals.' 
In December wc had a li\-ely crowd of eighty parents and children at the Communion Breakfast run by TOM STUBLER and CHUCK THEIS. REV. RICHARD McKEON, S.J., professor of industrial relations at Lcmox-ne College discussed the recent papal eno'cllcal *'Maler et Magistra." 
The Christmas Dance was held at the Bellexiie Country Club December 29, 1961. This year the Club plans to have at least one event each month and we're off to a flying start. 
—JIM SCHMIDT. Seo* 

Chicago 
More than 500 alumni and guests j'animed the Pick-Congress Hotel's grand ballroom Dec. 5 for the club*s annual Knutc Rockne dinner, and Chair­man J.ACK BARRY treated them to a big night of fun, food and football. 
GEORGE CONNOR, former N.D. All-Amcrican and Chicago Bear captain, presented Rockne trophies to the top football players In the Catholic and public leagues, Jim Grabowski, uho led Taft to the Public League title while copping all-state honors at fullback, and Jim Burda^ who scored 96 points for Weber's unbeaten and untied Chicago champions, were the Rockne winners. 
JOE SASSANO, '55, wlio coached Weber to the Chicago title, also appeared with halfback Burda. Last year's award winner, Don Hogan of St. Ignatius, also was present. He currently is a fresh­man at N.D. 
Captain NICK BUONICONTI of the 1961 Fight­ing Irish presented gold medallions with Rocknc's bust on one side to each of the award nominees. Captain-elect MIKE LIXD of Calumet and tackle JOE G^ROLLO also were guests. Each Catholic and public high school in Chicago nominated one boy for the award. Both the player and coach were guests of the club at the dinner. The award is based on athletic ability, scholarship and leader­ship. Chicago newspaper writers made the selection. 
JIM CROWLEY, one of the famed Four Horse­men, was master of ceremonies. ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE and JOE KUH/\RICH also addressed the group. JACK QUINLAN, the voice of the Chicago Cubs, narrated film clips of great N.D. football games of the past, Including the controversial Syracuse game. 
Assisting Chairman Barry were HARRY BALD­WIN, finance chairman, and ED MIESKOWSKI, awards chairman. Other committeemen included: NORRIS BISHTON, JR., EMMET 0*NEILL, TOM CAREY, DAN SHANNON, BILL REY­NOLDS, BILL \VIGHTKIN, KEN SCHUSTER, MARTY \VENDELL, DON SCHAEFFER, BOB BURNS, JOE YONTO and BOB WETOSKA. 
The club held a TlianksglWng Dance Nov. 25 preparations lor the dance. 

Chairman ED FOX and his Inter%icvvlng Com­mittee are busy talking to high school seniors interested in attending Notre Dame. 
Club members are busy finishing work on the Challenge Campaign in Chicago. With the largest concentration of alumni In the country, Chicago alumni are anxious to post tremendous final totals. Cit>* Chairman RAY DURST has been named to the Univcrsit>''s Lay Advisory Council for the College of Commerce. PHIL FACCENDA is general appeal chainnan for the Chicago area drive. Assist­ing him arc FRANK MILLIGAN, JACK MORLEY |> and JIM JENNINGS. Area chairmen arc JACK ^ .\fOYNAHAN, JIM CRONIN, JUSTLX OTOOLE, GENE SNARSKI, GEORGE RASSAS, JIM FER. STEL and JOE ARCHIBALD. If you haven't been contacted, call the club ofHce at Andovcr 3-6063. 
Chicago alumni are justly proud of ALFRED 

C. STEPAN, JR., and his wife, Mary Louise, who have donated to the University a new center for concerts and convocations. Stepan is a member of the University's Associate Board of Lay Trustees. The new building will be known as the Stepan Student ActlWties Center. Stepan Is a director of the Chicago Helicopter AIr%vays and the Arcli­diocese of Chicago Catholic Charities. He has been decorated as a Knight Commander of the Holy Sepulchre. J|^ 
The club will hold its annual Communion break­fast on Sunday, March 4. 
—P.AUL FULLMER, *55, Secy 


Cleveland 
On December 6, 1961, the new committee within the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland held its first banquet for the purpose of conferring the Knute Rockne Award to outstanding football players in the Cleveland area. At this banquet we had ten of the outstanding ball players in the Cleveland-Senate Football League along with their coaches and their fathers as our guests at Rohr*5 Restaurant. IV'inncr of the av\-ard for the outstanding back w*as Frank Solich of Holy Name High School, while the out­standing lineman was Greg Lashutka of John Marshall High Scliool. Our guests for the evening ^ included ED KR.AUSE, athletic director of the University, and HUGHIE DEVORE, head freshmen football coacli. Members of this committee, under tlie chairmanship of FIL\NK G.AUL, ucre P.AT CANNY, JOHN CHAPLA, DAN DUFFY, FRED EVANS, GEORGE KOZ.AK, BOB L.\LLY, JACK LANDRY, PAUL LILLIS. ART McBRIDE, BER­NIE METER, CREIGHTON XHLLER, LOU ZON­TINI and yours truly. 
On December lOih we sponsored our Family Com­munion Mass and Breakfast and were rewarded with the largest turnout ever for such an event as 
-f) 

CALUMET REGION—^Msgr. James P. Conrojr, assodate editor of Our Sunday Visitor, natioiial Catholic weekly, was welcomed at annual family Communion breakfast in Gary: (from left) Rev. James Witte, Club chaplain; Benedict R. Danko, president; Aj) Msgr. Conroy; Robert J. Welsh, Jr., diairman; and Anthony Kuharich. 
18 Notre Dame AlumnuSj February-Marchy 1962 
this. There were 406 attending the brcatfaat at 0 whicli BISHOP NICHOLAS T. ELKO \%-as guest speaker. Bishop Elko had previously celebrated the 
OF CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
II o'clock Mass for us at St. John's B>-zantine Churcli in Parma, Ohio. The breakfast followed immediately aftcrvv-ard in the school hall. Chairman of this event was VICTOR GULYASSY. He ^v•as ably assisted by ^Irs. Gulyassy who headed the telephone committee. 
On December 29th the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland had its Annual Christmas Formal Dance at the Slatler-Hilton Hotel, under the chairmanship of GEORGE BLATT and TOM MacINTYRE. AL DANT was in cliargc of the publicity. 
Since out last report the following alumni members or their relatives have died: CHESTER RICE, '28; STAN COFALL, '17; mother of JOHN HEALV, '50; mother of JOHN KEENER, '32, THO.MAS 
A KEENER, '29, and FRANCIS KEENER, '42; \V!L­LIAM A. KELLEHER, '15. —ROBERT E. DOAVD, Prcs. 
Connecticut Valley 
In September the Club officers played host to fourteen departing Notre Dame freshmen from the Greater Hartford area. Tlielr pictures appear in the ALUMNUS. 
The Connecticut Valley has been the scene of great activity for the Notre Dame appeal since the Challenge Rally in Hartford Oct. 17. 
—JIM FL.\HERTY 

Dayton 
• Dayton obser\'ed Universal Notre Dame Commu­nion Sunday with a special Mass at the University of Dayton followed by breakfast in the Faculty Dining room. Some 20% of the club's 135 members turned out for the obscrvnace. 
FATHER EDMUND LEIMKUHLER, S.M., of the University of Dayton, discussed Pope John's "Mater ct Magistra" at the breakfast and gave a brief description of tlie procedure the Popes usually follow in writing their encjch'caU. LOU HALEY, club president, was cliairman of the breakfast. 
The Communion Sunday observance marked the tliird successful gathering the Dayton Club had this past fall. More recently a committee headed by TOM LANDGREN was hard at work with a com­mittee of Dayton graduates of Mount St. Joseph College — some of them arc wives of N.D. men — 
on tlie annual midwinter dance in January'. 
• Tliis is the first time tliat ttie Dayton Club has gone in for a joint dance with a woman's college group, but it has such obWous advantages for a small group such as ours that both clubs adopted the idea with the hope that it will make the affair tliat mucli more successful. Final reports arc not yet in on the Challenge Drive. ED SHEA, Dayton City Chairman, says that reports already in indicate that the city quota will be met. 
—JOHN DEFANT, Secy 

Dearborn 
Two tickets to the N.D.-Syracusc game were 

• a^v-ardcd at a drawing last Sow 3 as part ol a meeting called at the home of E.MORY DAKOSKE in Allen Park by President JERRY KELLY. The December meeting was held at the home of JOE BYRNE featuring refreshments and cards to top off the business. 
Decatur 
The new officers of the Notre Dame Club of Decatur, III., are as follows: GEORGE H. HUB­BARD, '54, president; AMBROSE MORAN, JR., 48' vice-president; RICHARD McDONALD, '55, secretary; and GENE FORAN, '52, treasurer. 
Denver 
Great success has been enjoyed by the new dis­cussion group formed w*ithin the Club. The idea for this group is to continue tlie intellectual stimulus 
A of the University among the alumni. The idea for the group was that of Club President CrVRL EIBERGER, and Vice-President BOB ZEIS, is in cliarge of it. This year there have been three outstanding meetings. The first dealt with tlie problem of speed reading so that one's work could be done faster through reading in a shorter time. The October meeting was conducted by Dr. Joseph Korbel, fonner official in tiie Czechoslovakian government, former ambassador and U.N. dignitary, and now Director of Denver University's Social 
^Science Foundation. He lectured and moderated a 
V discussion on "World Communism." The December 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY—A send-off party in September drew fourteen NJ>. freshmcii from the greater Hartford area: (seated, L-r.) Robert E. MorriU, Jr.; Thomas R. Egan, John J. Ausanka, Ronald P. Meyers, Frederick C. Althen; WiOiam P. O'Connell, Jr.; John F. Sullivan; (standing, l.-r.) Joseph P. Lewis, Mark L- Tniskoski, Thomas B. Banulis, Paul G. Murphy, Frank E. Budarz, Stephen R. Fenton, and John J. Smith. 
meeting featured Dr. Paul Fuller of tlie Martin plant at Denver, which produces inter-contincntal missiles. His subject was "Man into Space." Future meetings will discuss "The Appreciation of a S^Tnphony," an evening devoted to "Poetry,*' and another on "Natural Law." These meetings are well attended by both husbands and wives. General­ly, preparatory reading is required, although at other limes the lecture movie form is used, depend­ing on the subject. 
The annual drawing for an all-expcnsc trip to the Na\-y game was won by CHARLES B.\IER, '51, '54, and his wife Joyce. The proceeds go to the Club's Scholarship Fund. In addition, the Club is co-sponsor of the Burlington Railroad Football Special to one game at Notre Dame each year. Under this arrangement and through joint publicity the Club is able to obtain a feu* dollars from each ticket sold. In this way about 90 per cent of this year's Scholarship Fund has been obtained. Second prize winner was HARRY LAWRENCE, '29; and two tickets to the game were won by MIKE H.ALLIGAN, '32, who sold the most tickets. The drive was handle by DICK A.MES, *40; JIM HILGER, '56; and a\R L EIBERGER, '52, '54. 
Monthly luncheons are held at noon on the first 
Wednesday of eacli month in a private room of one 
of Denver's best restaurants. This activity has been 
very successful and tlierc have been as many as 15 
alumni and friends who have enjoyed these monthly 
meetings. 
The annual Chrbtmas Dance for the alumni and for the students at the sctiool was held December 26 high above Denver at the beautiful exclusive Twcnty-SLx Club. Invitations were sent directly to the students at school, and there was a large attendance. Tlie band was obtained from a local night club. L.\RRY McGR.AW, Colorado Club President on the Campus, and a\R L EIBERGER of the Alumni Club made the arrangements. Many of the younger alumni turned out for this big affair after cocktail panics. The biggest one this year was given by Joyce Baicr. 
On February 8, 1962, a tour has been arranged witli the Coors Brewcr>' in Golden, Colorado. Actually this is a gala night because In addition to the tour there is dancing, tree refrcslimcnts, a big bufl'et, moWes and other entertainment in the deluxe reception room. All of this is free and a big turnout of the Club is expected. 
In Marcli tlic annual business and election meeting will be held, and it is hoped that the Rim on thc­highlights of last year's football season will be avail­able. 
A Spcdal Gifts Committee under DR. PHIL CLARKE, '44, and the Alumni Committee headed by GERRY SMITH, '27, assisted by BOB ZEIS, '55, CARL EIBERGER, '52, and AUURICE REIDY, *55, arc quite active on their respective fund raising actii-itics. FATHER THO.NLVS O'DON­NELL and DICK BOWES of the Foundation Staff were in Denver in December, and a meeting was held of the Alumni Committee at the Brown Palace Hotel. In addition, weekly luncheon meetings of this Committee wcie also held. All of the alumni in this area will be contacted by the end of the year. 
The Club sent F.^THER CDONNELL many 
get well cards and spiritual bouquets during his 
illness here. 
A new roster of the Club has been compiled by 
Madeleine Eibergcr, mother of the President. Also 
beautiful three-color membenhip cards have been 
obtained. 
Because of illness in the ART GREGORY family, 
CARL EIBERGER has taken over temporary chair­
man of the Scholarship Committee. Application 
forms, bulletins and letters concerning the Club 
Scholarship were recently sent to 40 Colorado high 
schools and pastors of 40 parishes. Publicity was, 
also, put in the local papers. This has resulted in 
quite a large number of applications for the Club 
Sdioiarship. KEN AD.A.MSON and FR.ANK TRI­
PUCKA, Notre Dame football greats, have been 
staying in the Denver area while playing for the 
Broncos professional football team. 
—MIKE HALLIG.AN, Secy 

Des Moines 
i\n lowa-Notre Dame game trip to Iow*a City, November 25, u-as spon5orcd again this year by the Notre Dame Club of Des Moines. One hundred and five fans made the trip, including the following alumni participants: ^L-\RK WONDERLIN, BEN CONDON. JOE JOYCE, JIM HAALMER, LOUIS 
F. KURTZ, PAUL EIDE, and JBf BOESEN. On December 10, 1961, the Club celebrated its annual Communion Sunday, with its annual business meeting taking place after the breakfast. Tlie alumni attending were: JIM BOESEN, BOB DREY, JOE BISIGNANO, ROBERT KURTZ. JIM DEN­NEN.JIM McCOMB,TOM NOL.4N,JOE JOYCE, CLEM SCHNOEBELEN, P.AUL EIDE, JOE CASEY, TONY CRTTELLI, HAROLD KLEIN, BOB CANNON, JOE WHALEN and MARK 
WONDERLIN. JIM McCOMB is moving to Peoria, Illinois. TON'Y CRITELLI was elected treasurer of the 
Club. —JOSEPH B. JOYCE, 'M, Secy 
Detroit 
JOHN NEIS has been appointed as director to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of LOU BOSCO, who is attending Columbia University's graduate school. 
BOB RONEY and BOB VOGELWEDE were co-chairmen of the Communion Breakfast held at Oak­land Hills Golf Club on December 10. Afemben and their families attended 9 a.m. Mass celcjirated by REV. CHARLES COUGHLIN at the Shrine of the Uttle Flower. REV. JOHN WALSH, C.S.a, was the guest speaker. Several St. Mary's of Notre Dame alumnae responded to invitations and at­tended. 
A Christmas Dance was held on December 29 at 
Notre Dame Alumnus, FebTuaTy-Afareh, 2962 
the Canncn Toucrs in Dearborn, Michigan, JACK MURRAY, chairman, made the preparations. The setting and music pn}vidcd a good time for members and their guests. 
ED GAGE and JOE CAREY have been sening as co-chairmen of the general campaign for Xotrc Dame in the Detroit Metropolitan Area. Good luck to them and their helpers. 
—LOUIS G. BASSO, JR., Secx-

Eastern Indiana 
Members of tile Notre Oame Club of Eastern Indiana heard JACK ELDER, of Chicago, N.D. football star of 1929, and also saw and heard a movie-talk by FATHER HESBURGH at their rally and dinner in Muncie last Oct. 19. 
JOHN C. HYNES, Muncie attorney, was ap­pointed area diairman for the Xotre Dame $18 million challenge. 
WILLIAM F. CRAIG was elected president of the club for 1961-62, and dioscn with him were: AVILLIA&I F. CRONIN, Hartford City, lice-presi­dent; RICHARD A. GREENE, secretary; and BOB PRESTON, treasurer. 
Members and guests attending were: MARIO FIERONI, GEORGE REIDY, JERRY RHOADES, MIKE MURRAY, JIM HALLIGAN, JACK MAR­HOEFER, JOHN ^URHOEFER, TO.M CANNON, DICK JENNINGS, DICK GREENE, BILL CRO­NIN, W. F. CRAIG, JACK ELDER, TOM ADAMS, WILLIAM S. MacDON.\LD, NORBERT 
W. HART. %nLLARD F. BRAND, TONY Mc-CANN, HOWARD R. DeVAULT, JIM CARNES, SR., JIM CARNES, JR., and JOHN HYNES. 
—DICK GREENE, Secj-

Hint 
. On October 17 the Flint Club had its kick-off for the Notre Dame §18 Million Program. LARRY SAXE appointed JIM PEARSON as chairman. As usual, Jim did a very good job in explaining the responsibility of the alumni to the university and adWsed they should encourage all of their friends to foster education and encourage boys to attend the school, and also to give llicir support to the university. 
The film was shown by BILL MINARDO, in xvhich FATHER HESBURGH did a wonderful job. The film was very well accepted. ROBERT SIBILI­SY, TIM HALLIGAN, DON xVcDONALD, MAR­TIN STASA, BUD SHERWOOD, PAUL HUGHES, FRED and TED MANSOUR, host JIM PEARSON, and BILL MINARDO «ere present. CofTei- and dessert was served and cver>-onc in attendance con­firmed that Notre Dame in Flint will do its best. 
On October 2Ut BILL MINARDO arranged for 100 tickets from BOB CAHILL and the Club filled three buses. The first half of the game was ver\* enjoyable. The second half was not so lovely. How­ever, everyone seemed to have a good time. FRED and TED MANSOUR, TED MANYAK, BILL MINARDO, LARRY SAXE, GERRY RANDALL and PAUL HUGHES attested to this fact. E\cr>one was very grateful to Bill Mmardo for tlic fine u-ay the trip was Itandlcd and I am sure wc will Iiavc 
3. donation for the Library from the Club as a result of the excursion. 
—GERRY RANDAL, Sco-Treas. 

Fort Wayne 
The 1961 Christmas Dance was held on Decem­ber 28 at Orcliard Ridge CounIr>' Club to the music of Jimmy Stier'i orchestra. Students, alumni and friends were welcome. 
Grand Rapids 
& Western Michigan 
In September the annual Golf Stag and Dinner was held at Cascade Countr>- Club. MOOSE KRAUSE, golf coach FR. DURBIN, EV WARREN and BILL EARLY represented the University- at the Stag. .\ fun-filled afternoon and evening were enjoyed by all who attended. 
One hundred cighty-onc Club members and their guests made the trip by bus to East Lansing for the Notre Dame-Michigan Slate tilt. 
The "Challenge" Rally was held on October 17 in the Pantlind Hotel followed by a social hour. In coimcction witli the Rally, the Board of Directors met on November 15 at Lotvdon*s Restaurant, at wtiidi time President BOB KIRCHGESSNER authoHMd the treasurer, JIM NACHTEGALL, to present a check to the Foundation through JOE MOORE, Foundation ciiairman for the Grand 
Rapids area. 
The family Christmas Party \%as scheduled for the 
afternoon of December 24, 1961, at the Knights of 
Columbus Hall. 
A Prc-heaten Stag is being planned. 
—GODFREY V.\NDER WTRFF, Secy 

Hawaii 
We were Iisppy to meet and talk with Coacli 
JOE KUH.-VRICH at a luncheon on January* 4 at 
Coco's in Waikiki. Tliis is his second trip to the 
Islands to coach a team in our annual Hula Bowl. 
Ever>'onc enjoyed hearing the latest news on de\"elop­
ments at Notre Dame and felt closer to our 
University although an ocean separates us. 
On December 10 wc observed Universal Notre 
Dame Communion Sunday with High Mass at 
Cbaminade College of Honolulu and breakfast at 
the beautiful Royal Hawaiian Hotel at Waikiki. 
The weather was perfect, and the view of rolling 
breakers breathtaking. (Hawaii Visitors Bureau take 
note!) Our speaker was REV. ROBERT MACKEY, 
S.AL, president of Chaminade, our only Catholic 
college in the Islands. His introduction to and 
discussion of "Mater ct Magistra'' was enlightening 
and thought-provoking. He recommended a central 
council of Catholic university and college alumni 
clubs of Hawaii in order to make Catholic influence 
felt more strongly in our Hawaii — a very worth­
while challenge. 
—DON MACHADO, '50, Prcs. 

Indianapolis 
Tlie Scliolarship Ball and drawing in October were a success in spite of conflicting events and many canceled rcscr\'ations. .^ttcndance and partici­pation probably suffered from the Ball's proximity to llic Challenge Rally (at which $44,000 was pledged on the spot). MIKE FOX, DICK McNAMARA, and TOM BULGER worked hard on the dance, and PAT FITZGERALD ran the ticket drive. The fund drive, incidentally, proceeded at a slower pace after the kick-off, but BOB WELCH promised to go over the top. 
JOHN R. WELCH, BEN KOEBEL, and ED McX.^M.ARA were in charge of tiie Communion Breakfast on December 10. Mass in the Blessed Sacrament Chapel of Sts. Peter and Paul Cathedral, celebrated by MSGR. JAMES P. GALVLV, Arch­diocesan Superintendent of Scliools, was followed by breakfast in tlie Marble Room of the Marott Hotel, at which Msgr. Galvin was the speaker. ARCH­BISHOP SCHULTE was among the dignitaries innted. 
Tl)c annual Candlelight Formal Christmas Dance was held at the Indiana Roof Ballroom on Decem­ber 29. Music was provided by the Vic Knight orclicstra. Campus Club Chairman JERRY O'GRADY was assisted by .-Mumni Rcpresentati\'e BILL MOONEY with tljc arrangements, 
CHARLIE AVAGNER and JOE DESAUTELS have arranged for a Notre Dame Glee Club Concert. 
CENTRAL FLORIDA—New dub officers in the Orlando area are (I>-r.): Bill Ricke, *39, secretary; Roy Laughlin, '48, vice-president; Don Smyth, '49, president; and Larry Dillon, *38, treasurer. 
the first appearance in Indianapolis in 10 years, on March 11 in the Marian College Auditorium for M the benefit of the Scholarship Fund. No advertising. " patrons or other gimmicks are planned, and wide alunmi support is expected. 
CbaJnnen to be acti\-ated shortly are JOHN C. O'CONNOR (N.D. Man of the Year Committee of past recipients), HARLAN P. (BUD) O'CON­NOR (nominations), and JOHN McSH.\NE (Uni­vcrsal Notre Dame Night). 
Kansas City 
In celebration of Universal Communion Sunday, the Notre Dame Club of Kansas City held its Mass and breakfast at St. Theresa's College, December 3, I96I. FATHER DE MARIA was the Chaplain for the event. Approximately eighty people were in A attendance for this family function. CHUCK O'NEIL was the cliairman. 
Alu-a>-s a top social event of the Christmas Season, this year's annual dinner-dance was no exception. The dinner and dance were held in the Junior and Senior Ballroom of the Hotel President. Kansas Citv, December 26, 1961, A "merr>-" time was had by all. Thanks to BUD SHAUGHNESSY and those who assisted him for the time and effort they spent preparing for this very enjoyable evening. 
—CARL B. ERFFMEYER, '51. Secy 

Kentucky 
The Notre Dame Club of Kentucky gathered at Big Springs Golf Club to participate in the nation-tf wide telephone hook-up to kick off the "Challenge Drive." Over 80 persons were on hand to watch FATHER HESBURGH's movie and help Chairman BUD WILLENBRINK start the ball rolling. It was good to see BILL OGBURN, JACK RAQUE, BILL REISERT and ^\1LL DeC^MILLIS along with many others. Latest reports indicate that we are well on the way to meeting and exceeding our goal. Congratulations to BUD and JOE DONALD­SON along with all those who gave their time and effort to this outstanding cause. 
JOE BOWXING, *32, our religious chairman, was rewarded with a reasonable turnout for the family communion supper on December 8. All those w-ho attended the event held at Pope Pius X Church were treated to an excellent meal followed by an outstanding talk by FR. WILLIAM HOG.^N. Fr. Hogan spoke on "Personal Responsibility." JOE ^ BOWXING deserves a "pat on the back" for his effort in making the Family Communion Supper a highlight of our religious and social year. 
The officer? of the Club made big preparations for the Notre Dame-University of Kentucky basket­ball same. Thanks lo ROG HUTER, Club members had an opportunity to purcliasc choice ducats for the event. Big JACK MUELLER — our esteemed president — made arrangements to hold a dance immediately following the game in two of the more plush 5uit^ of (lie Exposition Center. T7iis was a big night for the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky although the score was a disappointment. 
—TO.M BRAND, '55, Secy ^ 

La Crosse 
Tlic Notre Dame Club of La Crosbc celebrated Universal Communion Sunday, December 10, at Saint Dominic's Monaster)'. TIJC speaker for tliis event was FATHER ALBERT THOMAS, '42, of the Holy Cross Scminar>- faculty, who presented a splendid, succinct introduction to the principles contained in the recent enc>"clical "Mater et Mogis-Ira," and its effect on .American society'. 
Following the breakfast, the Club held a regular business meeting to discu^b plans for the fifteenth annual Christmas dance to be held December 29, 1961, at the Stoddard Hotel; and to elect ollicers for 1962. Officers so elected were J. WILLIAM MURPHY, '52, president; DONALD F. SIEGER, '52, vice-president; DUANE D. HAM.MES, '56, sccrctarj-; and LEO (DICK) H.AMILTON, '49, treasurer. 
TIic Club also takes pleasure in welcoming the € following new members: JOSEPH JEZIORSKI, '58; WILLUM ROTH, '60; and JAMES BEHME, '58; who have recently assumed positions in this city. 
DONALD F. SIEGER, Vice-Pres. 

Lehigh Valley 
The Notre Dame Rally Nile was very success­fully carried out imder the direction of LEO McINTYRE, '28. The Spea'al Gifts phase was ^ exceeded by attaining over 400% of our area quota. 

20 Notre Bame Alumnus, February-March, 2962 
To date the General Appeal phase quota has been exceeded by over 125%. The Club is now con­
• centrating on attaining 100% membership partici­pation. 
TIic Pittsburgh-Notre Dame football game was attended by a cara^-an of 120 local supporters who were pleased to witness a very thrilling victory for a fine Fighting Irish team. 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was ohser\xd by attending Mass at Notre Dame Church, Bethlehem, Pa, Under the chairmanship of BILL WALSH, '34, with assistance from JACK KIRCH­NER, '57, and TOM \L\GILL, *55, the affair was successful in spite of bad weather conditions. An inspiring address was delivered by Father Daniel M. Lear>' c»f Mar>' Immaculate Seminar^-, yorthampton. Pa. 
^ A Christmas Dance was held on December 23 in 
^ conjunction with the students* returning home for the holidays. ERC SPINOSA, '57, JIM ROW­LANDS, 57, and DAVE LANGLEV, '49, were responsible for arrangements. 
After our January business meeting, a one-day Cana Retreat and U.N.D. Nitc arc the remaining activities scheduled on the Club's yearly agenda. 
—BOB STRALEY, Pres. 

Los Angeles 
The Challenge Rally at the Statler-Hilton was successful, and committees were organized to contact all alumni in the Los Angeles area. The annual Communion Simday was observed 
^ December 10 with Mass at St. Brendan's Church. 
P celebrated by Club Chaplain M5GR. RAYMOND 
J. OTLAHERTY, and breakfast in the Chapman Park Hotel's Gold Room. THOMAS SHERIDAN, assistant U.S. attorney and chief of the criminal dirision, was the speaker. ROBERT L. GERVAIS was chairman, and Secretary-Treasurer GENE CAL­HOUN helped with reservations. 
The annual Sports Dinner was held January 9 in the Mission Room of the Pabst Brc%vlng Co. Guests of honor Included L.A. Times sports column­ist JIM MURRAY and Dodgers coach LEO DU­ROCHER, who ^vas also principal speaker. Also Innted were sucli N.D. sports greats as JIM MARTIN and NICK PIETROSANTE of the Detroit Lions, MYRON POTTIOS of the Pitts­burgh Sleelers, ART HUNTER of the L.A. Rams, and TOM HAWKINS of the L.A. Lakers basket­
^ ball team. Again GENE CALHOUN handled the W reservations. 
Tlic Club arranged Masses for the repose of the boul of CHARLES GASS, *30. and sent expressions t»f sympathy to his widow Bettle. 
Mansfield 
Forty members and guests attended the Notre Dame-Oklahoma football game on September 30th. 
A combined business and social meeting was held November 15 at the K. of C. Home, with wives of the members Ini'Iled. 
Universal Communion Sunday was observed De­cember 10 by the members and their wives attending 
^ 7:30 A.M. Mass. A breakfast was served at the 
P Mansflcld-Leland Hotel after Mass, with Msgr. James F. Hcbbelcr, pastor of St. Peter's parish, as guest speaker for this occasion, BOB RE^VL, '48, and PETE MORITZ, '43, uere co-chairmen. 
The Mansfield Club is holding its annual Holiday Dance on December 29, at the K. of C. Home. JIM EH.-\LT, '48, is chairman of this affair, ably assisted by MARSHALL PRUNTY, '50, DR. DAVID MASSA, '46, BOB BURTZLAFF and DICK WALTER, '41. 
—DICK WALTER, Sco' 

Milwaukee 
The Milwaukee edition of the Notre Dame Chal­lenge Rally was held on the evening of October 17 ai the Hotel Pfister in downtown Milwaukee, Sixty-five Notre Dame alumni and their guests were present to learn the details of the great challenge whicli has ben presented to Notre Dame. Chairman 
9 WALT SCHNEIDER, '54, handled the program arrangements In his usual excellent fashion and provided a fine buffet dinner for all attending. Milwaukee General Appeals Chairman BOB CUN­NINGHAM, gave a short introductor>- explanation of the challenge program, and then turned us over to a nationwide telephone hook-up program origin­ating from the campus In South Bend. The evening concluded with a truly inspiring filmed message from Father Hcsburgh who discussed the goals of the challenge program and of the University. 
The Annual Notre Dame Communion Sunday » held on December 10 closed out the 1961 year for 
CLEVELAND—Sports night principals who assisted in presenting awards to 1^^ school football players arc( from left) Bob Dowd^ Ed Kransc, Pat Canny, Hugh Devore and Chairman Frank Gaul. 
COMMUNION BREAKFAST featured Bishop Elko of the Byzantine Rite (not shown). At the head table (from left) were Vic Gulyassy, '42, chairman; Jim Ccdicraii, '35, 1961 Man of the Year; Leo Burley, *42, past president; George Blatt, '42, co-chainnan of the Christmas dance; and Rev. Stephen Gulyassy, pastor of host church St. J6bn*s. 
the Milwaukee Club. A total of forty Notre Dame alumni and their families attended the Mass and breakfast held at the St. Charles Boys Home. TIic .Mass ^vas celebrated by FATHER THO.MAS CADY, C.S.C., who was also the main speaker at the excellent breakfast following Mass. Many tlianks for a fine program and a delicious breakfast go to Communion Sunday Chairman EUGENE SCHU­MAKER, '42, and BROTHER THEODORE, C.S.C., of the St. Charles Boys Home. 
—DON MACHENBERG, Recording Secy 

Mohawk Valley 
Tlie Hon. Rchert Briscoe, Lord Mayor of Dub­lin, Ireland, was guest speaker at the annual Uni­versal Notre Dame Communion Sunday observance, December 10 in Ulica, N.V. 
.•\bout 110 attended Mass at St. John's Churcli, Ulica, whicli was celebrated by Msgr. DAVID J. DOOLING, dean of Catholic clerg>-men in thb area. Breakfast followed at the Hotel Utica. The ladies of the Club joined in the observance for the first time. The Milesians, a local Irish Catho­lic organization, also participated in the event. 
ROBERT FLETCHER, '56, chairman of the event, said the Club dedicated this years ob­servance to REV. J.\MES J. DENN, C.S.C., '58. ordained December 3 in Rome. Italy. FATHER DENN, brother of EDWARD DENN, '56, .Min­neapolis, is the first member of the club to join the Holy Cross Fathers. Harold Mullen, past presi­dent of the Milesians, scr\'cd as toastmaster. 
KENNETH MURPHY, '54, president of the Mohawk Valley Club, presented Briscoe with an engraved silver cigarette box on behalf of the club. Michael McGuirl, Sr., president of the Milesians and father of County Welfare Com­missioner MICHAEL McGUIRL, JR., '49, pre­sented Briscoe with a plaque on behalf of the Milesians. 
Mayor Frank M. Dulan of UtIca was special guest at the lunctioit. Rev. Tliomas Scott, pastor of St. Mary's Church, Little Falls, gave the in­vocation and benediction. Assisting the chairman were: RICHARD TROSSET, '53, vice-president of the dub; DANIEL CALLAN, '49, secretary; GER­ALD BACHMAN, '52, treasurer; and EDWAKD SWEENEY, '30. 
Murphy stated that the dub to date — imdcr the chairmanship of VINCENT FLETCHER, ^32 
— has raised $10,100 toward the University's 918 million dollar building program drive. The clij>'s quota (combined special gifts and general appeal) had been set at 57,332. 
MICHAEL PHILLIPS, '58, was Introduced as alumni chairman of the annual Christmas Dance. The dance — sponsored by the campus dub — was held on Friday, December 29. at Club Monarch. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of the Mohawk Valley sponsored a bus excursion to South Bend for the November 18 Notre Dame-Syracuse game. TIic excursion, termed a huge success by all, was handled by LEE OSTER, '36, and KEN MUR. PHY. Alumni on the excursion tndudcd: RAY BELDEN; GEORGE HAI^IELLNE; DR. ROBERT BRENNAN, '49; Mr. & Mrs. KEPmETH MUR. PHY, '54; Mr. &. Mrs. TONY GIRUZZI; Dr. & .Mrs. FRANCIS MARINO; LEE OSTER, '56; and ROBERT GAFFNEY. 
GERALD BACHMAN, '52, was elected treasurer to fill the unexpired term of THOMAS REAGAN, '49, who has taken a position wth a newspaper in Bu/falo, N.Y. Other officers of the dub arc continuing in office until the completion of their two-year terms next fall. 
Walter Sheridan, spcdal assblant to Attorney General Robert Kennedy and a native Utican, was guest speaker at the Challenge Rally of the Noire Dame Alumni Club of the Mohawk Valley on Octo­ber 17 at Twin Ponds Golf &. Country Club. .About 125 people xvere on hand to hear Sheridan, and new FR. HESBURGH's film on Notre Dame's. $18 million dollar challenge. VINCENT FLET­CHER, '32, chairman of the fund drive in the area, was keynote speaker, while EDWARI> NOONAN, '47, served as dinner chairman and master of ceremonies. FRANK DONALTY, *32, introduced Sheridan, Investigator for the Senate-I^bor Rackets Investigating Committee when At-
Notre Dame AtumnuSj February-March, 1962 21 
tomcy General Kennedy ivas its clilcf counsel in 1957-60. Others at the head table included: KEN­NETH MURPHY. '54, club president; FATHER JOHN MADDEN, Canastou, class of '53; Frank 
M. Dulan, Mayor of the city of Utica; and Brother Hillary, CFX, principal of Notre Dame High School in Utica. 
Monroe, Mich. 
On October 25, 1961 a meeting was held in Monroe, Michigan, the purpose to effect a ro­organization of the Notre Dame Club of Monroe. As a result the following ofUcers were elected: HUGH J. LAUGHNA, '41, president; JOHN LABOE, D.D.S., '51, \ice-prcs.; ROBERT H. MAURER. '45, secretary; JOHN G. DEWEY, '44, treasurer. 
It was agreed tliat tiie general purpose of the club would be to promote tlie interests of Notre Dame, the establishment of a scholarship fund and to proWde a social acti\ity for Notre Dame Alumni, 
DR. JACK LABOE was appointed chainnan of a committee to establish and finalize the dub's partici­pation in the dri\-e. To assist Jack in this endeavor, 
-the following committeemen were appointed: THOMAS E. GRIFFIN, '36; FRANK T. READY, '30; and CHARLES J. GOLDEN, '48. 
We hope to make this club, though small, an active organization. —ROBERT H. MAURER, Secy 
Muskegon 
The Muskcson officers arc as follows; President, JAMES MORSE, '57; Vice-President, STANLEV 
R. TYLER, JR., '58; Secretary, LEO L. LINCK, '43; and Treasurer, WILLIAM L. TARDANI, '50. 
We had a vcr>' fine golf stag at the Pontaluna Country Club last July u-ith well over a hundred in attendance and cnjovcd the presence of "MOOSE" KRAUSE and FATHER DURBIN. 
—LEO L. LINCK, Sec%­

New Jersey 
Activity in Northern Neiv Jersey has been at a peak since the Challenge kickofT rally in Glen Ridge last Oct. 17. Committees have been paced by Foundation Governor JOHN PIND.4R, area General Appeal Chairman BILL KIRCHN-ER, and Club President BRUCE DOLD. 
New Mexico 
The Club's annual group Communion was Iicld on the evening of the Feast of the Immaculate Con­ception. Mass was beard at St. Charles Cburdi in Albuquerque and immediately following a covered dish supper and meeting were held in the Churcli Hall. Club Vice-President DICK EVERRO.\D of­fered wife Mary's talents in arranging the supper and Dick kept a steady hand on the gavel for the meeting. A highlight of the evening came when FR. JOHNSON of the University of New Mexico NcuTnan Center presented a perceptive view of the responsibilities of Catholic laymen in today's society'. 
—BILL HARVEY, Seo' 

New Orleans 
Actlnties here in romantic old New Orleans Iiavc lessened temporarily In \iew of the marriage plans of our able and aggressive leader JOHN B. PETJT­BON, '52. The vcr>- lovely lady is Brenda Mar>-Baehr, and tlie date of February 17, 1962, is being eagerly looked forward to by members of the New Oricans dub. Inddentally, brother RICHIE PETIT­BON, Is a standout defensive back for the Chicago Bears. To date, the writer has been unable to establish any relationship between those bears and the New Oricans Bachrs. 
Unlike Chicago, less than 1400 attended the Challenge rally here, expertly chairmanshipped by JIM SMITH, local Foundation leader, and JOE DROLLA, '37. However, with such couples in attendance as Helen and BILL (PINKY) CASSIDY, *29 (the first Louisiana football monogram winner); Marie and CHARLIE DERBES, parents of student Charles; Betty and JULES DE LA \^RGNE, '33, Lynn and JOE D.AVIE III; Carol Ann and TOM McMAHON, '55; Audrey and AL NTFTER, '35, a classmate of the writer both in high school and at N.D.; and Jean and PETER HILBERT, '50. Vou come away ^\'ith the idea that the local Club Yrent in for beauty, as well as quality. Mary Healy and Peter lind Hayes, unable to attend because of show business engagements, are hopeful of attending the next get-together. 
Last summer, JOE DROLLA, '37, hosted the 
Club and their families at bis Camp Oaklawn. This 
camp, located in the healthy ozone country some 30 
ID 40 miles from New Orleans, is a summer camp 
for young boy-s. An enjoyable time u"as had by all. 
Incidentallly, "Buck Sccbcr," outstanding high school 
football coach at De La Salle in New Orleans, and 
winner of several stale championships, directs the 
camp's actiniies. 
In addition to being a Manresa retreat Houie 

captain for years, JOE DROLLA is giving further 
of himself by spearheading a drive to raise funds 
lo build 'Tranquillity House," a retreat center for 
high scliool boys — a greatly needed facility for 
Roman Catholic New Orleans. 
—JOE BEACH, '35, Secy 

New York 
The annual Knute Rocknc Lunclicun sponsored by the Touchdown Club of Nc"' York was held at the Hotel Edison last October 30. About 200 attended to hear the main speaker JOE KUHARICH. 
MSGR. GERARD GREEN, Club Cbaplain, was the celebrant for our First Annual Mass for Deceased Alumni at the Church of our Saviour, Park Avenue & 38th Street, on November I5th at 12:00 p.m. 
Tlie University Glee Club spent their Tlianks­giving vacation in New York. On Friday, November 24th, a concert was held at Chaminadc High School in Mincola, Long Island, »vherc a crowd of 1,300 attended. On Saturday a second concert was held at Stcpinac High Scliool, White Plains, where a crowd of 900 attended. Both concerts were given before capacity cro\vds and all funds were for the benefit of our Scholarship Trust Fund. Tlie Co-Chairmen were ED FIT2P.ATRICK, '54, and GEORGE FRAZIER, '49, who both did a fine job in making these concerts a tremendous success. 
On December ID, we joined Notre Dame .-Mumni throughout the world in observance of the Annual Universal Communion Breakfast Sunday. Mass xvas celebrated in St. Patrick's Cathedral and the bnincli followed at the Park Lane Hotel on Park A\-enue & 48lh Street. The Guest Speaker was MOST REV. JAMES H. GRIFFITHS, Au.xiliar>- Bishop of New York and Vatican Representative on several U.N. Committees. FATHER JAMES MOR^VN, director of admissions, represented the University. Other Guests included: ED SULL!\^AN, "ho -was gii'cn a plaque expressing appreciation for all he has done for the dub over Uic years; MRS. JACK L^WELLE, a dear friend of the Notre Dame Club of New York, who received an award for the assistance she has given to the club before and since lier husband JACK LAVELLE passed au-ay; and GEORGE SOKOLSKY, Syndicated Columnist. ROBERT FINK, *52, was the Chainnan and Master of Ceremonies who did a tremendous job in making the aflfair a most cnjo>'abIc success. 
Almost 300 attended the Notre Dame Cliallcngc Rally at the Biltmore on October 17th. BILL MURPH\', AL PERRINE, JIM SHEILS and PETER GRACE headed the affair. As National Chairman, PETER GRACE spoke over the telephone 
SALINA—Mcmbcis of the plucky little Central Kansas Club hosted the Bishop of Salina on Universal N.D. Communion Sunday: (seated^ L-r.) Tom Classen, Bishop FrcdericlE W. Frckingt Larry Wentz, and Albert Sch%vartz; (standing l.-r.) Tom Kennedy, Al McLean, James Foley, John Browne, Norbcrt Skcllcy, and John Carlin. 
hookup with the other clubs around the nation, 
toUowed by JIM SHEILS, our Area Chairman, who 
threatened to outdo Texas and the odds still look 
in our favor. 
New arrivals in the New York Area include BOB 

GOLDSCHMIDT, '59, here from Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Bob and Karen (St. Jfarj''s '60) tverc married at 
Notre Dame on June 10, 1961. JEROME ('47) and 
Pe^y HENDEL announced a new addition, Gerard 
Henry, bom Octcrfier 27, 6 pounds, 2 ounces. 
CHARLIE DOHERTY *53, doing Public Relations 

for Pepsi Cola, relocated here recently from Boston. 
LOU BUCKLEY '28, was appointed a regent of 
St. Francis College, Brooklvn. C. J. HO\T and 
JOSEPH F. GAGLURDI were elected to the 
District Court bench in Westchester. Congratulations 
also to H- CLAY JOHNSON '34, the new Mavor 
of Rye, N. Y. WILLIAM E. DIEBOLT, 49, 
Divisional Treasurer of Cbr>'sler, recently moved 
here from Detroit and is living in Hicksvillc, Long 
Island. 
IN P.\RADISUM DEDUCANT TE ANGELI— May the Angels lead thee into Paradise. (Requiem Mass.) O. PAUL BERETZ '27, passed away un­expectedly on October 4th, eight days after a major operau'on. PAUL B. BERETZ, '60, is on active duty in the Army. TOM ROME, *55, of Ardslcy, N.Y., was killed instantly in a plane crash in California on November 19th. 
—GLENN YATUNI, '52, Secy 

Oklahoma City 
We arc happy to report the active participation of ^ Oklahoma City Alumni Club in the Uni\'ersal Notre * Dame Communion Sunday, December 10, 1961. After attending Mass at Saint Eugene's, a local parish, 35 members and their families enjoyed breakfast at the Oklahoma City Golf and Countr>- Club. 
Msgr. C. E. Finn, Rector, Saint Francis Scminar>', Oklahoma City, presented, after breakfast, a fine address entitled "Tlic Role of the Catholic La\Tnan in Societv." 
—E. J. SCHMIT 

Orange County 
New Faces dominated the Old Frontier look of the 4-year-old Orange County Club of Notre Dame. 
Faces with such zest, life and sparkle, we arc 
certain that this will be our most successful year. 
The sudsy cold-meat-and-cliccse gathering met in the playroom at the home of L.\RRY KR.\EMER, % '56, in Placentia, to watch the N.D.-Oklahoma game on TV. Our shouts and yells were probably heard in nearby Anaheim and Fullcrton. Although the turnout was less than anticipated, 27 men Iiad a grand time. On hand to greet the *'ncw vear" were the officers of the Club: Jx\CK DcCOURSEY, '53, President, STEVE FIN^VN, '37, Vice-President, BOB COOK, '54, Treasurer, and this writer, BADEN POWELL, '32, Secretary. FATHER JOHN J. FEENEY of Pius V, Bucna Park, Club Chaplain, was on hand as usual. 
.\mong others whose voices were heard singing 
^  "' 

Notre Dame Alumnus, Februafy-March, 1962 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—Shillelaghs were everywhere at South Bend's annual December tcstiinonial dinner for the football team: 
(from left) Irish coach Joe Kuharicb, *38, accepts the traveling Shillelagh trophy from Club Vies, Bob CahiU, '34, and defeated Purdue mentor Jack Mollenkopf, while athletic director Ed Krause, '34, exults in the background; on the right, captain-dect and fullback Mike Lind (center) accepts the cudgel of leadership from graduating co-captains and guards Norb Roy (left) and Nick Bnoniomti. 
• 
n 
^ w 
^ 
^ 
the Victon- March were ART PRICE, *44, Col. FRANK J. CAREY, »17, USA (Ret.). DICK MURPHY, '53, cx-past president, ^VALLY AN­DREWS, *48, FRANK BURGE , '55, BOB AtEISTER, '5i, TOM ENGLEHART, '52, RALPH DIXON, '50, PAT CONWAY, '57, FRANK WALKER, '50, DAN GALLIVAN, cx-*5D (and he is always on hand), JOHN McGRATH, '38, BOB SCHADE, '56, JOHN GLAAB, *47, RICH HOH-AfAN, *54, BOB KIERN/\N, '36, ED STROOT, '45, TOM GETZINGER, '52, TOM TEDROSS, '47, DON KILVEMER, cx-'57, and of course, JOE HUx\RTE, our strongest associate member. Joe is the fatlier of Dave, '59, and John, '&i. We are all pullins for John to become the first all .American from Orange Coimty. 
Our 4th annual Communion breakfast wxs ob­5er\-ed Sunday, December 3 at St. Pius V Church in Buena Park ivilh our Club Chaplain, F.-VTHER JOHN FEENEY, celebrating Mass for his "adopted" flock. And what a flock there was! 92 alumni, their  wives and their children were on Iiand for the gala occasion. The food was good too! "Hashers" for the Breakfast were L.ARRY KR^\E.MER, BOB MEISTER, RICH HOHMAN and BOB SCHxVDE, under the guidance of FR.\NK BURGE. 
WVrc still trv'ing to count noses but wc think there was a tie for first place among families between Marlou and BOB TIERNAN, '39, and Joanne and DICK MURPHY, '53, with seven cliildren each. Eacli took good advantage of the "fringe" benefits the Club ofTcrs by being able to feed tlicir families on $3.00. Regular prices were a buck for adults and 50 cents for kids . . . but no family could pay more than a total of $3.00. RICH  HOHMiVN, '55; BOB BERNARD, '36; JOHN  GLAAB, '42, also qualified for the "fringe" benefits. There must have been otiicrs as wcU. 
STEVE FINAN, '39, our Foundation Chairman, reported that he expected our club of more than BOO alumni to be one of the first over the top in national participation. Steve and his committee have worked night and day to accomplish the wonderful record they have for Our Lady. 
JACK DeCOURSEY, '53, president, remarked that this breakfast was one of the biggest turnouts he had seen in Orange County. He urged the attending alumni to get in touch with fellow alumni so that we can have 100% participation at future gatlicrings. 
Upcoming dates include a gct-togethcr in Fcbruarj* to nominate the new officers for the '62-'63 year and to discuss plans for the annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner-dance. Club members will hear more about this as time drifts into spring. 
 —BADEN POWELL, '32, Sen-
Palm Beach County 
JAMES F. COONEY, M,D., is president-elect of the Palm Beach County Medical Society. 
ED. LEWIS, chairman of the Young Democrats of Palm Beach County, recently presented President Kennedy with an honorary membership in the Young Democrats at a dinner in Miami Beach. 
MR. & MRS. SAM BUDNYK are parents of  their first child, a girl.  MIKE O'HARA, %vhile home from Loyola Medical 
Scliool at Christmas, delivered an inspirational talk entitled "Next Year" to our group. —DR. BERNARD O'HARA, Secy 
Philadelphia 
Tlic annual Communion Breakfast was held on December 10 following Mass at St. Patrick's Church, celebrated by the Club Chaplain, REV. THO.\I.-\S C. DUFFY, C.S.C., with breakfast at the Philopatrian Club. HUGH DEVORE, Notre Dame's freshman football coach, was speaker at the event, held under the cliairmanship of JAMES 
P. McHUGH, '54. In a special drawing, eight lucky members won two tickets apiece to the De­cember 16 Liberty Bowl game promoted by BUD DUDLEY, *43. 
The Challenge drive had a slow start, but JACK DEMPSEY, '49, got the campaign going ver>* well in December, assbted by CUFF PRO­DEHL, BART JOHNSON and fourteen teams of 
. committeemen. Contributions were requested for a special Christ­mas gift for REV. JrVMES A. DON'NELLY, C.S.C., in his work among the Mexicans in Texas. 
Five new board members ^verc elected in January. Their names will be announced in the next issue, along with the officers to be installed on Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Pioneer Valley 
The October Challenge meeting was held at the Hotel Sheraton Kimball, Springfield, and was noted for its poor attendance; but, wc stirred up some interest in the drive which showed a reasonably good return before the year's end. 
The annual Communion ^^'as held at the Saint Michael's Cathedral, Springfield, Mass., with a breakfast following at the Sheraton Kimball Hotel. Attendance was better than the October meeting, and the members listened to JIM REGAN recount his version of the football games he witnessed this past fall. 
—WILLIAM A. HURLEY, Secy. 
PiHsburgh 
Challenge activity in Pittsburgh has been intense since the champagne rally and dance at the Pitts­burgh .Athletic Assn. Annex in October, report co-chairman LEO D. O'DONNELL, JR., and JAMES 
P. BEYMER. The Club sponsored a festive prc-game rally at the Webster Hall Hotel on the eve of the Notre Dame-Pitt game. Visiting celebrities included FATHER JOYCE, MOOSE KRAUSE and the coaches, along with HARRY STUHLDREHER. 
JOE BACH, JOE GASPARELLA, etc Refresh­ments and a musical combo were also featured. 
The annual Christmas Dance for the Scholarship Fund \vai held at the Pittsburgh Field Club on December 29 to the music of Dick Bertini and his Pittsburgh Hilton orchestra. ART BOYLE and MIKE McMAHON ^\-ere co-chairmen of the event. 
JOHN A. BRILEY u-as again chairman of the annual Notre Dame Retreat at the renovated St. 
Paul's Retreat House January 5-7, conducted by the Passionist Fathers. 
Rochester 
The Rochester Club participated in the nation­wide Challenge Rally following a stag dinner at the Ridgemont Country Club in October. The general gifts drive got off to a good start following an announcement by CHARLES O'BRIEN that the special gifts committee had more than doubled its quota in pledges. 
The Family Communion Breakfast was held De­cember 10 at McQuaid High School with good attendance. 
The annual Christmas dance was held December 
30 at the Ridgemont Country Club. Joan and 
RALPH KEPNER, '55, arranged the gala event. 
—ED SCHICKLER, '55, Secy. 
Rome, Italy 
Our seventh Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was celebrated on December 10th, as usual at Holy Cross International College. Participating in the regular seminary Solemn Mass, we received Communion from our Chaplain, REV. EDWARD 
L. HESTON, C.S.C., Procurator-Postulator of the Congregation of Holy Cross, who preached on this year's universal theme: The Eno'clical of John XXIII, Mater et Magistra. Following Mass, with the traditional recessional "Notre Dame Our Mother" by the seminary choir, we gathered in the seminary Music Room for a CofTee-Get-To­gether with Fathers, Seminarians, and Brothers of Holy Cross. 
Saddened by the news of the death of FATHER THEODORE J. MEHLING, C.S.C., Provinaal of the Priests' Province of Indiana, a faithful \-isitor to the N.D. Club in Rome, we arranged a Mass to be ofTcred for him in St. Peter's Basilica, R.I.P. 
Gladdened by a vhittrom FATHER HESBURGH. His stop at the club's downtown hospitality center scr\'cd ideally to round out the center's first year of Open House. Guest arri\-als gauged by doorbell and telephone bell count bring our first annual total well over a thousand. But the more the merrieri 
New N.D. Romans: Arriving this fall for resi­dence arc REV. JOSEPH BUCKLEY, S„M., Su­perior General of the Marists; REV. P. J. BUCK­LEY, S J., in graduate studies; REV. MR. JOSEPH KIMMEL at the Bcda College in studies for the priesthood; VINCE lON.ATA, '60, at the University of Rome in medicine; JOHN McGRAW studying at the .\ngclicum; and at Holy Cross International College are the Rev. Messrs. (C.S.a) JAMES T. CONNELLY, LEONARD D. PAUL, ROBERT C. WARE, all '60; THEOTONIUS A. GOMEZ, MICHAEL A. McDONALD, and HAROLD R. RUTHERFORD, '61. 
Spotlight members: JOSEPH McDOSNELLj '58, whose art studio in Florence has already been noted, did his fellow N.D. Romans proud in bring­ing to Rome his own art show when among other works of sculpture, his distinctive "Madonna and Child" yv3s exhibited. REV. MR. JACK ANTON, '38, studying for the priesthood at the Beda Col-

Notre Dame Alumnus, February^March, 1962 23 
lege received the diaconatc and will be ordained to the priesthood in the spring. 
Guest Lecturer: DR. A. ROBERT a\PONIGRI, professor of philosophy at X.D., arrived for a scries of lectures at the Luigi Sturzo Institute. He graciously volunteered to act as Club speaker in our series before the U. S. Xav\* Holy Name So­ciety in Naples. He likewise spoke to the Holy Cross seminarians and students at Noire Dame International Scliool. 
Our Guests: FR.\XK FOLSON, Lactare Medal­ist; EARL LINEHAN, Prcvy, '62; Norma Ales­sandrini. cousin of JACK ALESSANDRINI, '52; BROTHER BERX.ARD FLOOD, F.M.S., Summer '40; Mr. and Mrs. AL RVAN, '20, c.\-Alumni .As­sociation Secretary-; dad of DON KE.\TING, '53 (member. Arts Council); JAKE SCHMID, JR., '35, of South Bend; TERRENCE .McGO\'ERN, '61. Washinsion, D.C.; DENNIS K.\SUN, '61, Pitts­burgU; MICHAEL .\fcMAHO.V, '61, PUtsbursh; 
W. G. ALEXANDER, Cape Town. So. Africa (cur­rentlv historv fellow); FATHER JOHN HALEY, C.S.C., '36; EDWARD AYL\VARD. '48, Kansas City; BROTHER GEORGE NOAKES, C.S.C., Dacca. E. Pakistan; LEO VOGEL, '17, plus mother and sister of HAROLD VOGEL, 'G4; ^\'. H. O'BRIEN, '40, Hanvorib, N.J.; parents of THO.MAS, '50, and AMLLIAM CARTER, '49, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.; MSGR. FREDERICK CONNOR, .Aurora, 111. (Great-nephew of N.D.'s second presi­dent, FATHER PATRICK DILLON, C.S.C.); Mr. and Mrs. HUGH O'NEILL, '17, of Cleveland; ilr. and Mrs. W'M, O'NEILL, '28. Hunting Valley, Ohio; Mr- and Mrs. Edv\ard Murphy, parents of EDWARD MURPHY III, '63, who is grandson of EDWARD L. MURPHY I of the "high school" at N.D. circa '00—to boot, Mrs. Murphy is sister of JOSEPH, '37. JAMES, '39. and VINCENT SHIELY, m, and aunt ot JOSEPH SHIELY III, '63 (Bra\-o!); Anna Carter, relative of FATHER PETER FORRESTAL, CS.C ; TIM SHANON, '59. Genoa, Italy; TOM MURPHY, '54, Indian­
apolis, brother of JIM, '47, Notre Dame's director of pi^lic Info.; William Collins of Shaker His.. O., for son JIM COLLINS, '65 and nephew. TOM COLLINS, '65; P. 0».\LALLEY, '60, U.S. Forces. Germany; BROTHERS FRANCIS KILLOY, JOHN HUDSON, '60, GEOFFREY SHIBER, '50, CS.C , en route to missions; BERNARD McCORMICK, '36 Capi. BILL HAWKES, '33, U.S.N.; DON CARBONE, '53. 
MOST REV. FRANCIS ^(cSORLEY, O.M.I., Philippines, consecrated by CARDINAL JOHN F. O'HARA, CJS.C, who helped name a "fleet" of schools in Philippines "Notre Dame"; MOST REV. EUSTACE SMITH. O.F.M., Beirut, Lebanon. honorar\- member; FATHER ROBERT MURPHY, FATHER ROBERT MALONE. BROTHER JO­SEPH GERSTLE, all CS.C . en route to Uganda (and FATHER JA.MES DONOHUE, C^.C) ; Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT H.ALLEIN, '43. Cleveland; PAUL C. MARTIN, '24, St. Louis; Mrs. Margaret Judge, mother of DR. WALTER JUDGE, '49; Dr. and Mrs. GORDON KRAUS, '35, San Diego; PHILIPPE and PERSIS DE LA MARE, Univer­sity of Portland; the Roths, friends of TIERNEY O'ROURKE, '35, N.Y.C; Ralph Murray, U.S. Force, Germany, brother of BILL MURRAY, '35; parents of BILL SLIFE, '61, Cleveland; Capt. 
^Villiam Klecker, U.S. Air Force, Spain, Notre Dame High, Sherman Oaks. Cal.. '51; parents of newly ordained FATHER JA.MES DENN, '58, and EDWARD DENN, '58; Marv' Alice Justin, Dclcne Secle>% Kathleen Lordcn, Patricia Orton. all '57­59 Univeralty of Portland: Marilyn Keckhoff. '59, Carol Vogcl, e.x '60, St. Marv's; and finally a nationally distinguished alumnus. JOHN 
S. GLEASON, JR., '36. .Administrator for Veterans Affairs, ^Vasliington, D.C . wlio signed register for 
his son, JACK GLE.ASON, '65. 

Colorful .Acquistions: We are happily in receipt of two fine color pictures of a portrait of FATHER PATRICK DILLON, CS.C , recently painted for P.AUL R. MARTIN-DILLON, '09, editor of Tiie Evening Times, Cumberland, Md.. by STANLEY 
S. SESSLER of the art deparinienl. One of ihcse pictures is a detail of the head, the other shows the entire portrait which b of three-quarters length. Mr. Sesslcr made a study of cver>* picture of Father Dillon knou-n to be in existence. These Include the painting which has Iiung in what is now* the faculty lounge of the .Administration Building for about 75 years; a portrait painted by order of his sister, Mrs. Margaret Ca\anau5h, a St. Mary's alumna, is now in possession of Rt. Rev. Msgr. Frederick Connor of Aurora, Illinois; another is an old photograph of Father Dillon which was made in Rome about 1865. 
Both MONSIGNOR CONNOR and PAUL R. MARTIN-DILLON are great-nephews of the illus­trious priest who was the second president of Notre Dame and for tvhom Dillon Hall was named. His brother, FATHER JAMES DILLON was likewise a member of the Congregation of Holy Cross and distinguished himself as a chaplain of the "Irish Brigade" of the Union Army during the Ciril War. 
It is colnadental that when these pictures reached the Notre Dame Club of Rome, Monslgnor Connor should have been a guest there. He gave an in­teresting talk to those present on the Dillons of Notre Dame. 
The Dillon portrait is the third Scssler painting in the collection of Paul Martin^Dillon. There is also "Notre Dame Gold and Blue'' showing St. Mary's Lake on ihe N.D. campus. Finally there is **DilIon Castle" whldi was painted from a camera study made by Paul Martin-Dillon during a visit to the ancestral castle in 1954, where the castle, standing on the shores of Loch Ree, near Athlone, County Westmeath. is in a slate of perfect prescription as the oldest D'lUoa stronghold in existence. 
—VINCE McALOO.N, '34, Sec>-. 
Sacramento 
Past President TO.M K.ASSIS held an official meeting at the Country* Club Lanes Banquet Room after a \-icwing of the Oklalioma-Notre Dame foot­ball game. New officers elected for the coming year were AL KAELIN, president; GENE MEU­NIER, vice-president; JOE SHILTZ, treasurer; DICK SAPP, secretary-: and DENNY NOLAN, his­torian. 
The Notre Dame Challenge Rally was held in the Countr>- Club Lanes Banquet Room with BILL DALY, chairman, presiding. Over fifty members and guests were in attendance. 
.A Christmas party rounded out the year in Sacramento. —RICHARD S. SAPP, Secy. 
Saginaw Valley 
The Saginaw Valley Noire Dame Club met In a body for the Universal Notre Dame Communion at St. Stephens Church, Sagma\%-, Michigan. Father Murdick of St. Paul Minor Seminary of Saginaw addressed the members of the Club, after a break­fast meeting, on Christianity and Social Progress from the Encyclical Letter of His Holiness, Pope John XXIII. 
TTic Club had a very successful year In 1961, and Is making plans for a healthy I9i62. 
—LAWRENCE A. S.MITH, Sec>-.-Trcas. 
St. Joseph Valley 

As of the last report, St. Joe Vallcj* alumni and friends had pledged nearly $580,000 to the Chal­lenge Drive since hosting the nationwide Challenge network last October. Tlie special gifts appeal was well over its quota, and the general appeal was 
approaching $200,000 or 90 per cent. Special ap-g 
plausc is due to the efforts of JIM FRICK and % 
Spedal Gifts Chairman JERRY CRO^VLEY, as 
well as to the general appeal co-chairmen, DICK 
CLEARY, JOE DILLON, and JOE H.ANNAN. 
December witnessed the annual football testimo­nial banquet in the North Dining Hall, for whicli BOB CAHILL, JOE HANNAN & Co. assembled a stellar guest table and an all-time record attendance. Guests heard a stirring principal ad­dress by ELMER LAYDEN, plus speeches bv FATHER JOYCE and special guest JACK MOL­LENKOPF of Purdue (subbing for a missing BEN SCHWARTZWALDER), all marshalled by Chicago radio personality W.ALLY PHILLIPS as m.c. Coacli JOE KUH.ARICH Introduced the graduating grid­dcis. Including co-coptalns NICK BUONICONTI M and NORB ROY, from whom Captain-elect MIKE " LIND took the sy-mbollc shillelagh. A highlight was receiving the long-lost trophy of the N.D.­Purdue scries. 
BURNIE BAUER was chairman of the Family Communion and breakfast on the campus in ob­serx-ancc of Universal Notre Datuc Commiininn Sunday. 
St. Louis 
December was a bu»y month in St. Louis. Annual Family Communion Sunday was December 
17. Mass at Immaculata Church was followed by breakfast at Ray Qulnlan's Partv House. MSGR. LLOYD A. SULLIVAN was the guest speaker, ­and ROBERT E. .McAULIFFE uas cliariman. ^ 
On De c 27 the Club sponsored a luncheon in honor of the Notre Dame basketball team, in town to play St. Louis U. JOHN JORD.AN, MOOSE KR.AUSE, and team representatives were joined by the St. Louis athletic authorities, local sports writers and other athletics personalities at the Mis­souri .Athletic Club. BOB CHICKEY and HEILM KRIEGSHAUSER were in charge. 
Tlic Christmas Dance was held on December 29 in the Khorassan Room of the Hotel Chase with music by Jack Engler. Chairman was JERRY McGLYNN, assisted bv BOB CHICKEV and MATF WEIS. 
Salina 

Xfembers of the Salina Notre Dame Club with BISHOP F. W. FREKING as they observed the ^ 24th Universal Notre Dame Communion on Decem­ber 10. 
The Club members, their families, and parents of former Notre Dame students. In a body, attended the 7:30 Mass and Communion at Sacred Heart Cathedral. The ^fass was offered by His Excellency Frcdrich W. Freking, Bishop of Salina. 
After the mass, the group attended a breakfast in the Pine Room of tlie Warren Hotel. Bishop Freking was the speaker. His subject ^vas Pope John XXHI's eno'cllcal *'Mater et Maglstra." 
—AL SCHWARTZ. 

MOHAWK VALLEY—Head tabic at Communion Breakfast on December 10 included 
(from left): Kenneth Murphy, '54, dub president; Frank M. Dulan, mayor of city of Utica; guest speaker Robert Briscoe, Jewish Lord Mayor of Dublin; Rev. Thomas Scott, pastor of St. Mary's Church, Little Falls, giving the invocation; Harold MuHen, toast­master; Robert Fletcher, '56, chairman (behmd MuUen); and Michael McGuirl, Sr., president of the Mile^ans. ^} 

24 Notre Dame Alumnus^ February-March, 1962 
San Gabriel Valley 
On October 14 the Club held an X.D.-Southern Cal game smoker, actually a barbecue and mLxcr at the home of DON BRADY. There followed a husband-vv-ife retreat at the famous La Casa de Maria Retreat House in Santa Barbara Xovembcr 17-19, arranged by ROBERT SINGER. Telephone committee work for these events was handled by LLOYD AUBREY. 

The next event announced by President JOHN FRAMPTON was the Family Communion Breakfast December 10 at Sacred Heart Church, Con'na, with breakfast at the Covina Bowl. BILL HART­FIELD was chairman of the e%eiil. whicli featured a talk by JOSEPH R. Mx\NGi\N, coach of the ^National A.\U Champion Los Angeles Stridcrs, who 
^recently accompanied his team to Moscow. 
Southeastern Iowa 
New officers of the Burlington Club are RICH­ARD H. DELANEY, '37, president; WILLIAM 
W. WEINRICH, '27, sccrctan*; and HAROLD P. RILEY, '22, treasurer. 
Southern Cook County 
Since its establishment last Universal Notre Dame Night the Club had a rather dormant summer but resumed activity with the Challenge Rally and a 

j ^ fall \nctor>- Dance. New officers arc BOB CJVF­
VFARELLI, '55, president; ED OSTROSKI, '48, \-ice-president; KEN STEAD, "53, secretary; and BE.V DAMI/\NI, '51, treasurer. 
—KEN STE.\D, JR., '53, Scc>­
South Jersey 

After recci\-ing Communion as a group at Christ Tlie King Church in Haddonfield, New Jersey, the South Jersey Club breakfasted together at the Collmont Diner in Westmont. Club Chaplain REV. JOSEPH HAYDEN gave an informal talk on several aspects of the recent Papal Encyclical "Alalrr et Magistra," which was thoroughly en­joyed by those present. Incidentally, the Club would like to extend its congratulations to Father Hayden 
.a t his recent appointment as Pastor of St. Joseph's f Parish in Swcdesboro. —CHRISTOPHER C. REITZE, HI, Sco-Treas. 
Spokane 

The Notre Dame Club of Spokane obser\'ed Universal Communion Sunday on December 3rd to avoid conflict with the Holy Name Society. After Mass in the Cathedral of Our Lady of Lourdcs, breakfast was enjoyed in the .-Vrcadc Room of the Ridpath Hole]. The guest speaker was REV. RICHARD J. TAVOHY, S.J., Head of Dept. of Political Science, Gonzaga University. He spoke On the application of the principles of ''Mater 
k et Magistra" to our daily lives and his thoughts \vcre most inspiring. Tlic discussion session which followed was lively and very interesting. Following Club members., their wives and guests, attended: A.R. ALBO, '35; ED BETHKE, '28; FRANK HERRON. '35; ELMER JOHNSTON, '23; JIM LYNCH, '40; DR. BOB MAHER, '35; JOHN P. O'NEILL, '29; RAY PENLAND, '56; BERNIE SMYTH, '55; RALPH SCHULLER, '57; and JOE WALSH, '14. 
Plans are being made for the annual Holiday Party which is an informal gathering in the home of one of the Club members. The date will be December 28th, and special guests of the Club inll be the seven undergraduates from Spokane, home for the hoHdav-s. 

The Challenge Drive, under the Chairmanship of BOB ROTCHFORD, '49, assisted by BERNIE SMYTH, 'M, was more successful than had been anticipated. The Challenge Committee members were GARY MYERS, '39; DR. JLM ROTCH­FORD, '48; FR^VNK IL\GENBARTH, '27; BOB MERZ, '47; and JOE WALSH, '14. 
—JOE WALSH, '14. Secy-Trcas. 

Toledo 
At Toledo's version of the telephone hookup 

CHARLES SCHIRA, president, announced the 
officers for 1962: TERRY O'LOUGHLIN, pres.; 
MIKE HOEFLINGER, v.-p.; CHARLES COMES, 
treas.; and JOE KALBAS, secretary-, 
A November meeting allowed our local atunmi 

and friends to \-icw the highlights of the 1949 
undefeated season, BILL WIEDEM.f\N was on hand 
to Iiandle the projector for us. The new officers 
were officially installed and a short business meet­
ing held. 
Our Christmas Dance was held on December 28th 

in the Great Lakes Room of the Toledo Club. 
MIKE HOEFLINGER chairmaned this function 
for us. 
In a recent election JOHN PIETRYKOWSKI's 

wife, Carol, was elected to the School Board for 
the city of Toledo. 
—JOE KALBAS, Secy 

Tulsa 
A champagne breakfast provided special opportu­nity for Tulsa Notre Dame men to honor their wives Iliis summer. Corporate olTer'ms of Mxss was followed by the buffet arranged bv FARRIS SAFFA and ELMER FARINELUV. 
The scholarship program which has assisted 16 local boys in attending the University during the last 12 years continues to receive strong Ctub attention. On September 21 the drawing of a Oklalioma-Notre Dame "all expense trip package" climaxed a month's raffle effort. TOM NEW­HOUSE carried the major share of responsibility in this project to beef up the scholarship fund. 
Moral and technical aspects of sur\'i\'al in the nuclear age was a topic that was kicked around following our November 19 Communion Breakfast. JOHN MORAN arranged for the club chaplain and local civilian defense director to lead the way in a matter of current concern. 
JACK MOHATT, who lias done so well in the sometimes thankless role of club president, is our latest casualty, A job transfer required his giving way to JOHN MADDEN who has us off and run­ning to the Chrisfcnas Dance and February- stag. 
TMrin Cities 
officers and directors of the Twin Cities Club in 1961-62 an:: ROBERT M. REGAN, '52, presi­dent; JOSEPH A. ROGERS, JR., vice-president; PAUL D. GABLER, '33,' secretary; LAWRENCE 
W. SHEARON, '38, treasurer; directois, DR. DAVEY E. UEB, WILLIAM U. GUDIONT, (VILLIAM E. BECKLBV, JOSEPH MCMANUS, EOWARO HAGGERTY, THOMAS REIS, THOM­.43 MCDONALD, JAMES BYRNE, JACK YEL. LAND, and JOSEPH O'NEIL. 
Utah 
The Utah Alumni Club met on November 17 in order to watch Father Hesburgh's very enjoy­able film. FoIIomng the film, PHIL PVRCELL, Utah Foundation governor, made a pica in favor of the current Foundation drive. DON RONEY, the club president, also spoke in support of the program. All those present were requested to for­ward their pledges directly to Mr. Purcell so that he could then direct them as a group to the Foundation OfHcc. 
Universal Communion Sunday was celebrated by our members at Mass in the Fort Douglas Chapel, Salt Lake City. 
—LEONARD DI GIACOMO, Secy 

Vincennes 
Last October 17 the Tri-State Alumni Club was revived at Hoffic's restaurant in Vincennes for a Challenge in that Indiana-Illinois-Kentucky area. Chairman JAAfES D. McQUAID was assisted by a committee including PAUL H. BROKHAGE, RENE DOGNAUX, CHARLES SHIRCUFF, FRANCIS HENNEBERGER, RUDY STURM, GEORGE T. WEBER, JOHN HENNEBERGER, and DR. JOSEPH MATRICL\. 
Washington, DX. 
President ROBERT N. HUTCHISON expressed thanks to TIM O'SHEA for last fall's football TV party, to JOHN WOOD for the October Chal­lenge Rally, and to AL VIROSTEK for No\-ember's Pitt game trip. To them and their committees went the gratitude of the entire Club. 
The big December e\'cnt was Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday on December 10 at Holy Cross College. The month also included a Christmas cocktail party. 
Western Washington 
J.D. DURBIN was chairman for Universal Com­munion Sunday, observed with J^lass in the Lady's Chapel of St. James Cathedral and breakfast in the Fireside Room of the Sorrento Hotel. Alumni families and guests were invited to hear REV. DAMIAN GLENN, O.S.B., president of St. Mar­tin's College. A modest sum u-as ra^ed earlier by the annual Scholarship Fund Draxring. President JOE LOTTA urged fuller cooperation so that the Club can begin making scholarship au'ards 
ROME—Visitors at Eternal City's N.D. rendcz\'ous, the ScogUo di Frisio, in recent months included: (left) Laetare Medalist Frank Folsom, accompanied by Mr. and Mrs. Gene Leone of New York's "Mama Leone's" restaurant; and (right, center) John S. Gleason, '36, U.S. administrator of Veterans Affairs, dining with William Driver (second from left) and Italian officials of the American 
I Legion, of wluch John is a past national commander. 
Notre Dame Alumntis, February-March, 1962 25 
Columbia University (now the University of Port­
land). He served in the Oregon Legislature from 1925 untU 1933 and from 1939 until 1941. He was 
acting Governor in 1933 while holding office as 
Speaker of the House. Judge Lonergan was one of 
the first Judges to permit news photography during 
ALUMNI CUsSfiS .^H^ 
trials in his courtroom. The only survivors are 
Engagements 

Miss Brenda Baehr and JOHX PETITBON, '52. Miss Elizabeth A. Wilson and JOSEPH C. BARAN, '53. Miss Helen O'Xeill and ^MLLUM J. STOU­TENBURGH, JR., '55. Miss Helen L. Strauss and JOHN J. PHELAN, '56. Miss Jean Ellcnburg and BL.\SDEL A- REAR­DON, *58. Miss Man* Catherine Druktcn and HAROLD 
A. SIEGEL, JR., '59. Miss Mar>- Judith Robrecht and THOM.AS J. McCAREY, '60. „.X^,„T Miss Ann Harriet OToole and D.^IE L CAREW, *61. ifiss Judith Grace Lchmann and GEORGE S. MACOR, *61­

Miss Kathcrine Huseman and THOMAS J. MARCINIAK, '61. 
Marriages 
Miss Marilj-n Fagan and WILLUM TALBOT, '44 New York. N.Y.. November 4, 1961. Miss Maria Verduzco and JOSE L. GONZALEZ, 

•50, Laredo, Texas, November 18, 1961. Miss Diane Retcher and FRANK C. BROPHY, JR., '51, Prcscott, Arizona, September 22, 1961. Miss Camilla Bradford and AVILLUM V. RYAN, '52, Buffalo, N.Y., August 5, 1961. Miss Grace Conroy and DONALD J. MULVI­HILL, *53, Bronx, N.Y„ November 30, 1961. Miss Elizabcili Kcttercr and JOHN A. ANL\N, 
'55, North Canton, Ohio, June 24, 1961. Miss Dolores Thomas and ELLIOT R. LESE, 
•55, RockviUe Centre, N.Y., September 23, 1961. Miss Judith E. Thompson and DAVID E. COL­LINS, '56, Flushing, N.Y., September 16, 1961. Miss Catherine Jassoy and ED^VARD N. DEN'N, '56, Afinncapolis, Minn., June 17, 1961. iriss Jane McCormick and TERRY CRO>VLEY, '57, Notre Dame, Ind., June 21, 1961. Miss Gail McDcrmott and EDWARD P. DEAN, 
'57, Montdair. N.Y., September 16, 1961. Miss Ann Fayette Larkln and DR. MICH.AEL 
R. DOOLEY, '57, Detroit, Mich., September 30, I96I. ^^ ^ 
Miss Betty Anne Kosclclski and JAMES G. GRIFFIN, '59, Notre Dame, Ind., February 3, 1962. 
Miss Elizabeth Caranagh and P.AUL A. O'CON­NOR, JR., '59, Basking Ri'dge, N.J., October 7, 1961. 
Miss Teresa Dittricli and ROBERT E. WXLCH, '59, Glen Rock, N.J., J»ly 1, 1961­Miss Marilyn Caldwell and LT. PHILIP G. SEBOLD, '60, Butler, N.J., September 30, 1961. 
^rJss Patricia Kinney and AN'THONY L. WALSH, JR., '50, New York, N.Y., September 9, I96I. 
Miss Virginia Lcc SchroU and JAMES F. MUL­\^HILL, '61, ^Vcst Orange, N.J., November 4, 1961. 
Births 

Mr. and Mrs. JOHN S. MacaAULEY, '41, a son, Michael, October 2. Mr. and Dr. JAMES GRIFFIN, '47, a daughter, Lady Kaitilin, June 22. Mr. and Mrs. JEROME P. HENDEL, '47, a son, Gerard Henry, October 27. Mr. and Mrs. DONALD B. CORRELL, '48, a son, Jeffrey Blake. July 14. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM H. GRIFF\', '48, a son, December 17. Mr. and Mrs. HERMAN A. ZTTT, '48, a son, Tliomas Richard, August 4. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH S. CONCAN-NON, JR., '49, a daughter, Leslie Ann, March 31. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD H. BRODEUR, *50, a son, Ricliard, Jr., November 1. Mr. and Mn . MATTHEW O'DON'NELL, '51, a son, Terence Patrick, November 30. Mr. and Mrs. ALLAN J. POWDERS, '51, a daughter, Elizabeth, October 25. Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES V. FALKENBERG, JR., '52, a son, Charles V., Ill, October 9. 
.Mr. and .Mrs. JOHX F. CORRIGAN, '53, a daughter, Mar>- Patricia, November 2. Mr. and Mrs. HAROLD J. SUTET, '53, a son, Robert Lester, June 20. Mr- and Mrs. RAYMOND N. TROMPETER, 
'53. 3 daugiitcr, August 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD N. O'ROURKE, '55, a son. Timothy. August 13. Mr. and Mrs. CARL F. PETERS, '55, a son, James Carl, December 9. Mr. and Mrs. JA.MES GULDE, '56, a daughter, Theresc, October 15. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN A. KEG.\LY, '56, a son, John A., Jr., October 19, 1961. Mr. and Mrs. ^VILLIAM D. MANCA, '56, a daughter, Xfarv Agnes, September 28. Mr. and Mrs. CLE.MENT J. O'NEILL, '56, a son, Daniel Kevin, September 7. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT A. RICHARD, '56, a son, Matthc\v* George, September 22. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS R. FORTUNE, '57, a daughter, Kathleen Anne, October 18. Mr. and Mrs. ^VILLIAM K. McGOWAN, JR., *57, a son. William Ke\*in, November 26. Mr. and Mrs. PETER ^L R.AFFETTO, '57, a son, Paul Joseph, August 26. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES F. \VEBER, '57, a daugh­ter, Jidie Anne, August 25. Mr. and Mis. GERALD GENOVESE, '58, a daughter, Paula Marie. October 5. Mr. and Mrs. FRANK B. CWCHON, '60, a son, Frank McCormack, September 8. 
Deaths 
ARTHUR P. PERLEY, *82, who was perh^»s 

the oldest li\-ing Notre Dame alumnus, died De­
cember 14, 1961, in South Bend, Ind., at the age 
of 98. A political leader of the Democratic party 
in South Bend for many decades, he dated his 
political activity back as far as a torchlight parade 
for Horace Greeley in 1872. Real estate and bank­
ing were among the activities of a colorful career. 
Surxiving is his widow, the former Agnes Howard, 
whom he married in 1895. 
NATHANIEL J. NEALIS, '89, of Brooklyn, New 

York, died October 7, I96I, according to word 
received from his daughter. 
A. W. MAJOR, '93, died In Laredo, Texas, October 3, 1961. For many years he was asso­ciated with the Major Brothers Packing Co. in Mishawaka, and was in the oil and gas business after moving to Texas forty years ago. He is survived by his sister, Uvo nephews and three nieces. 
REV. ERNEST HA^VLEY, '94, died in Lacon, 

Illinois, according to word received in the Alumni 
Office. No details. 
EDGAR CRILLY, '33, died in Chicago, IHinois, 

according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. 
No details. 
.MICHAEL J. FLANNIG.\N, SR., '96, died in 

Omalia, Nebraska, according to mail returned to 
the Alumni Office. No details. 
FRANK J. SEKINGER, '03, of Lancaster, Pa., died in 1960, according to information received from his widow. 
REV. THOMAS A. STEINER, C.S.C., '99, provincial superior of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the United States from 1938 to 1950, died in South Bend St. Joseph Hospital January' 1. He had been dean of the College of Engineering at Notre Dame from 1928 to 1938. Since relinquishing the post of provincial superior, he had served as an advisor on construction to the president of Notre Dame. Bom Sept. 11, 1877, in Monroe, Mich., Father Steiner received a civil engineering degree, and until 1911 he worked as a civil engineer iv-tth the Illinois Central and Big Four Railroads. He returned to the campus in 1911, serving for three years as a member of the lay engineering faculty. He began his studies for the priesthood In 1914 and was ordained in 1918 in Indianapolis by the late Bishop Joseph Chartrand. His only immediate sur­vivor is a sister. Miss Stella C. Steincr, of Monroe, Mich. 
HON. FRANK J. LONERGAN, '04, Judge of the Circuit Court of Oregon, died October 4, 1961, in Portland, Ore. After his graduation from Notre Dame, Judge Lonergan was a coach and teacher at ncpliews and nieces. 
STEPHEN F. RIORDAN, '04, '06, of Chicago. Illinois, died November 17, 1961. An assistant cor­poration counsel in recent years, Mr. Riordan was a former president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. His survivors include his wife, a son, a brother and sister. 
CHARLES T. McDERMONT, '05, of Santa Barbara, Calif., died November 17, 1961, according to word received from his wife. 
LEROY J. KEACH, '08, died in Indianapolis, < Indiana, according to information received in the Alunrnt OlHce, No details. 
CHARLES A. HANNAH, '09, died In Buffalo, New York, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
\VALTER HEEKIN, SR., '09, died in Cindnnatl, 

Ohio, according to mail returned to the Alumni 
Office. No details. 
\\1LLUM A. DUFFY, '11, died in Butler, Penn­

sylvania, according to mail returned to the Alumni 
ORice. ?!o details. 
RAYMOND J. SULLIVAN, '15, of New Hamp­ton, Iowa, died November 29, 1961. Mr. Sullivan was a widely known trial attorney- and on tlic board of directors of the Town Mutual Insurance Co. i Surv-iving are his wife and a son. " 
EDWARD J. BECKMAN, '16, died in Syosset, 

New York, according to mail returned to the Alumni 
Office. No details. 
OTTO T. KUHLE, '17. a veteran of both World 

War I and the Korean 'War %vhere he was a cap­
tain in the Medical Corps., died in Minneapolis, 
Minn., September 24, 1961. At the time of his 
death Air. Kuhic was employed by the Federal 
Govenuncnt in the Procurement Office of the AJr 
Force. He is survived by his ^vldow, a daughter, 
a son, and a brother. 
E.MIL C. SCHONLAU, '17, died in Syracuse, 

New York, according to mall returned to the Alumni 
O/Kcc. No details. 
THOMAS J. GLYNN, '21. of St. Petersburg 

Beacli, Florida, died in October. 1961. He is sur­
vived by a daughter and two brothers. g 
LEO J. MOMSEN. '21, died in EI Paso, Texas, ^ 

according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. 
No details. 
JOSEPH A. SLNGLER, '22, died in Sandusky, 

Ohio, according to moll returned to the Alumni 
Office. No details. 
GEORGE A. DEVER, '23, died October 19, 

1961, in Chicago, Illinois, according to informa­
tion received in the Alumni Office. He is sur\ivcd 
by a daughter. 
EDWARD L. KE.\TING, '24, died in Auburn. New York, according to mail returned to tlic Alumni Office. No details. 
HAROLD C. W.^TSON, '25, executive vice-president of Baerwald Hoffman & Co., died No-d vembcr 14, 1961, in Mil«aukcc, )\7sconsin. Jlr. \\'atson formerly was an assbtant manager of the Milwaukee branch of the Traveler's Insurance Co. and state agent for a Connecticut Insurance firm. Surviving arc his wife, tlircc sons, and a brother. 
.MILES J. RYAN, '26, died in Cleveland, Ohio, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
O. PAUL BERET2, *27. died October 4, 1961, In Kansas City. Missouri, according to information received from his son, Paul, '60. Otlicr survivors include his wife, another son, and a brother. 
PAUL M. BUTLER, '27, of South Bend, Ind., former Democratic national chairman, died unex­pectedly December 30, 1961, in Washington, D. C. After his graduation from Notre Dame, Butler served as. a precinct committeeman, 3rd District Democratic cluurman, and Indiana's Democratic national com­mitteeman. He was elected Democratic national 
cliairman in 1954, re-elcclcd in 1956, and sencd M 
until 1960. Surviving are his widow, three sons, two 
daughters, and a sister. 
EDI^IUND D. CALLAHAN, '27, of Chicago, Illinois, died January 24, 1961. according to word received in tlic Alumni Office. He is survived by his wife. 
WILLL%M J. COYNE, '27, '29, formerly a pro­fessor at the University of Notre Dame, an at­torney for the Housing and Home Finance Agency in Washington, D.C., and attorney advisor in the Legal Division of the Urban Renewal Adminlstra-^ tion, died October 9, 1961 of Hodgkins Disease In ^ 

26 Notre Dame Alumnus, Febntary-MaTchj 1962 
An intellectual service oi the'Umveraity of Notre Dam* for the constant enrichment 6{ theiminds, , 
of Notre Dame's diverse family. iA 
0 thesHblimeTRlDITIOI 
:^v 

THE POLITICAL MATURITY OF AMERICAN 
•/'. 

CATHOLICS: AN INTRA-FAITH DIALOGUE 
f\ In Time magazine before he 1960 presidential election. Reverend Gfiutavey Weigel, SJ., professor of ecclesiology at Woodstock College, Maryland, ansioered certain questions ore the American churek-state problem, especially in relation to a Catholic president. Time's election issue contained a letter from Professor Frank L. Keegan of Notre Dame commenting on the remarks of Father Weigel. 
One consequence of this brief exchange was a score of letters received by Professor Keegan. The letters, from Cath­olics and Protestants, revealed a variety of reactions to the spectacle of a Catholic criticizing his own church members. The term "dialogue" is often reserved for discourse between members of different faiths, but there is no reason for denying 
Q it to discourse between members of the same faith. One way to prove American Catholics hold diverse opinions is to show them disagreeing publicly. There is a new Catholic political Kterature being written and a good part of it tviU contain serious disagreement bettveen Catholics on the issues con­
1 fronting the nation. ' This article consists of two parts, the first of which is the exchange between Father Weigel and Professor Keegan. Selections from the ensuing correspondence ond Professor Keegan's replies form the second part. 
Part I. The Original Exchange 
Father Weigel's comments: Q Would a Catholic President be likely to have Mass in the White House? 
"He knows that this would be displeasing to many of the 
people in whose name and power he acts." 
Would a Catholic statesman be unduly influenced by his con­
fessor? 
"The confessor's service would be exclusively private, moral and religious. He has no competence in political matters, which belong not to the order of morality and piety but to the order of law." 
<j» Would the Pope interfere with a Catholic President? 
^ "The Pope does not meddle with the political activity of Adenauer or De Gaulle, nor would either man permit it. The Catholic President's comportment with the clergy of his church would be exactly like the comportment of a Protestant . President with the clergy of his church." • 
What about lands where the church is established by law? 
"It may be that such laws are good laws for those com­munities, maybe not. The American Catholic is not concerned. He only knows that the American law of religious freedom for all citizens is excellent law for his land." 
Would a Catholic majority seek to restrict the religious rights 
of others? 
"Officially and really American Catholics do not want now 
or in the future a law which would make Catholicism the 
© favored religion of this land. They do not want the religious freedom of American non-Catholics to be curtailed in any way. They sincerely want the present First Amendment to be re­tained and become ever more effective. With a note of des­peration, I ask, what more can we say?" (Italics added.) 
Professor Keegan's letter: 
As for Father Weig^el's remarks, I do not share his optimism in the political mateurity of American Catholics. O Whenever I confront Catholic college students with the prob­lems of the Catholic politician^ in a pluralist society, I find them speaking in the archaic voice of 13th century Europe. 
••• ' [ 

FRANK L. KEEGAN ^ "% ' ~ 
I hope that more Catholics are as Father Wtigel described them than as I describe them. As time runs out for American Catholics (Time, of course, would never run out on them), they must more and more assume a'civic and social respon­sibility commensurate with their increasing numbers. Yet my experience leads me to conclude that too many of today's Catholics tend to view political opportunities as opportsffiities for the advancement of their church. Oftentim^ the more pious the Catholic, the less capable he is of seeing,the dvil rights of other Americans. v . 
Fortunately, I think, we are not voting in this kind of Catholic majority if Senator Kennedy is voted in as President. Senator Kennedy's secular (not secularist) attitude is one of his grreatest political assets. Today's Catholic minority, on the other hand, in its excessively dogmatic attitude toward social and political questions seems to me a major obstacle to the achievement of political wisdom by American Catholics. ^ 
Part II. Some Correspondence which Followed 
From a Baptist minister: . . 
Let me begin by expressing appreciation for your whole­
some attitude as expressed in your letter. . . . Uncertain as to 
your relationship to the Koman Catholic Chnreh; other than 
the connection which your present position discloses^ I want 
to sincerely thank you for your spirit of self-examination'and 
self-criticism. ' 
I am one Baptist who has consistently argued against the prejudiced stand taken by the general ml of Baptist preaeheis and denomination leadership. In fact, to the constematian at some of my members and fellow Baptist minister, I~ liave consistently argued (especially during this political campaign) that there is an "Ameriain position" in moderh'Roman Cathol­icism. The article by Father Weigel along with some readings of a small journal, "Christianity and Crisis" had strengthened me in this interpretation of American:Catholicism. . .., ' , \ 
From your vantage point (which is mi2ch better, tlian mine), would you conclude that among the American Catholie clergy, the interpretation most often accepted.is the "American position" or the position which your stud^ts. would accept?, (For, after all I would conclude that yonr students hxve beei­influenced by their clergy.) 
I conclude by saying that.I will continually aigne that every individual, including John Kennedy, must be^taken as an Individual, and on his own merit. I hope I shall be'givai the Grace to avoid such categorization which would label all Catholics as "bad." I also hope, that among the commnnicants of the Boman Catholic .Church there will be some •who will not label all Baptists as "prejudiced" or "eviL" 
Professor Keegan's reply: "" i / ' ^ 
.. . As for your main question concerning the "American position" in modem Boman Catholicism, I think, one most dis­tinguish between the iCatholic clergy and the Protesrtant in their interest in the church-state problem., (Incidentally,' I would prefer "democratic solution to the church-state problaa" to the phrase "American position.") Am I right in thinlrriiy that American Protestant clergymen are extremdy saitftive­to the presence of ecclesiastical power in a dmocratie aodty? 
Dr. Kegah is assistant dean of the College of Arta mid Letters find a former assistant professor in the General Pro­gram. He is ag raduate of the University of Saakta Clan^ Calif., with master's and doctoral degrees from 'NotrB Damt, and collaborated in The Idea of Freedrau (DovbUdaif, last). 
If so, they differ somewhat from their Eoman Catholic brethren who do not think so much about this problem; those who do are the minority who teach in Catholic colleges and universities 
' or who write in the Catholic press. Of course the Catholic clergy accept the "American position" practically, but many do not have a theoretical basis for it. I leave it to you to decide whether the Protestant clergy have a theoretical basis for their views. 
On the other hand, the Catholic clergy are not likely to despise the "American solution." I think one can say that the average Eoman Catholic priest is extremely busy with parish work, that he has little time for reflection on the church-state problem, that he has seen the great growth of the Church in America and he wants things to stay the way they are. In this sense, the Catholic clergy accept the "American position." 

From a Catholic soldier: 
I meet many Catholic young men fulfilling their service obligation these days and I can spot the ones from the pious homes at once. They are unquestionably the best and most dependable servicemen. Now, would you please tell me how and why time is running out for Catholics? I am one, you know, and have a right to know . . . and please explain this jewel of yours: "oftentimes (give me a sampling or frequency as I hate glib assertions or gratuitous assumptions' or vague rank generalizing) the more pious the Catholic, the less capable he is of seeing the civil rights of other Americans."... 
It seems to, me that you have given aid and comfort to the enemies of the Chur'ch. The Oxnams, Blanshards, Pikes, et al. will now say: "See, just like Sughrue and Thomas P. Coffey, the name Keegan will be heralded as a courageous' truth revealer about those intolerant, medieval, reactionaries." Time can prove it has been fair to Catholics. Why, a Notre Dame Professor says so! 

Professor Keegan's reply: 
Thank yon for your letter. It is another sign that the Catholic mind in America is not the homogeneous thing which is sometimes described. And let us not be too fearful of Catholic controversy in public, nor too angry with magazines who print it.... 
•Where should one look for evidence of the "excessively dogmatic attitude toward social and political questions" men­tioned in the Time letter? You can look anywhere there are Catholics in large numbers; look in the parish and in parish organizations, in Catholic schools and colleges (not so, much 
"in Catholic universities), in the army, navy or marine corps. How many such Catholics are there? Only a survey of attitudes would indicate the number. And when I speak of the "dogmatic attitude" I am not speaking theologically. No, it is the mis­application of dogmatic views to the social and political order which causes the difficulty. By dogmatic, I mean apodictic and assertive even though the grounds for their judgment is theo­logical, especially moral theology. 
Let me be more precise. Here is a list of questions divided into two parts. It is a random list drawn from my own experience. Anyone—Catholic or not—could draw up his _ own list. The first set .of questions are "should" question^, which involve a positive moral action. Non-Catholic Americans would give some of the same answers here, but several are specifically Catholic The second set of questions are "can" questions which involve the omission of an action. These questions are specifically Catholic ones and all are answered in the negative 
Here then are questions relating to social and political problems which draw from many Catholics a too frequent, too quick and too dogmatic "yes" or "no." 
A. Should Catholics put pressure on owners of theatres, halls or auditoriums to prevent the presentation of films or lec­tures on subjects held immoral by Catholics? (Yes) —Should Catholics support "decent literature" campaigns even to the point of an economic boycott of offending magazine peddlers? (Yes) —Should a Catholic nurse in a Catholic hospital call a priest to the bedside of a dying non-Catholic patient, if the patient has shown no repugnance to priests or to the Church? (Yes)—Should a Catholic mayor, upon his election, imme­diately close down the houses of prostitution in his city? (Yes)—Should Catholics refuse to support foreign aid for Commaiiist or Communist-influenced countries? (Yes). 
B. Cari a Catholic doctor or layman serve on a hospital board which permits the use of contraceptives for non-Catholic patients who need or desire theta? (No) — Can a Catholic defend the civil liberties of a secularist or an atheist? (No) — Can a Catholic vote against state legislation to approve gam­bling if his pastor urges him from the pulpit to vote for such legislation to protect the parish bingo games? (No) — Can a Catholic administer a hygiene program in the armed forces or to overseas populations which call for the use of contra-' ceptives? (No)—Can a Catholic vote for state legislation compelling Catholic and other schools to pay taxes if his bishop urges him to vote against such legislation? (No). 
Each of these questions is quite complicated. They involve 
— besides moral principles — professional ethics, international policy, constitutional and state law, not to speak of local customs and traditions. Above all, they call for prudence, that great, and n^lected, virtue which directs the means to the end here and now. Without knowing circumstances,- perhaps no safe affirmative or negative answer can be griven. 
Yet, many Catholics would give the answers noted above. Will pious Catholics give such answers? In my experience, they will oftentimes give them more readily than the less pious. Do the answers reflect an "excessively dogmatic attitude toward social and political questions?" Yes, Do these answers (e.g., regarding dying patients, book merchants, atheists, over­seas pagans) involve the danger of "(not) seeing the civil rights" of others? Yes. 
You and I know, however, that Catholics who are nurses and doctors, mayors and legislators, citizens or administrators do not in practice abide by these answers. One suspects, how­ever, that they sometimes act with a guilty conscience, with a feeling that they do not practice what they preach. These schizoid moral feelings are really unnecessary, for the answers 
— pro or con — to the questions noted above are the subject of much responsible debate. Catholic professional persons have a responsibility to study these questions, to seek pastoral advice, but they should not think they are clearly right' or clearly yrrong however they answer these complicated ques­tions. I trust you realize that I do not advocate the opposite of each of the answers given above.... 
I did notmean to imply in my TtTne letter that American ( Catholics as a bloc want, in a positive or aggressive way, to unite Church and state in America. Yet some American Cath­olics convey this impression inadvertently. And surely you can see why there are no official spokesmen for what is a kind of instinctual response. What I wanted to point out is that Catholics haven't tiiought much about this problem. They are so used to giving direct, certain answers to matters of faith that they carry over the habit into public life where uncertainty is more often the rule than not. No, many Cath­olics have not thought much about social and political problems in a free society and the greatest thing about a Kennedy election victory will be that they will be forced to think about t them. John Kennedy may well become the most influential Catholic educator of our century. 
Mature Catholics must realize that dogmatic solutions can­not hurriedly be applied to the delicate fabric of the social and political order in American society, that prudence and wisdom must guide the judgments of men who live each day in different circumstances and each day under eternal stand­ards. One can have the greatest hope for the development of mature Catholics in the decades ahead, among the clergy as well as the laity. The matter is urgent^ for genuine dialogue with our fellow Christians, fellow Jews, fellow Uuslims de­mands such Catholics. And with the increasing growth of American Catholicism, our strength and status as a world power may well be at stake. 

From a Catholic teacher: 
I would like to think that there is a sizeable group of Eoman Catholics in this and other countries who are politically and economically liberal. I would like to think, too, that there is room in the Church for such free-thinkers and that as a result of their gentle agitation, dogma will gradually be modified..;It seems to me that many Eoman Catholics, who are characteristically liberal in both the secular and religious sense and perhaps politically and morally to the -left, are^ caught up in the conflict of what is the right thing to do: leave the Church rather than practice a hypocrisy, or remain 
steadfastly loyal in the hope that they may, in some small 
* way, contribute to a liberalizing evolvement. I would very much like to know your view of this question. 

Professor Keegan's reply: . '' 
Here is my view of the question raised in your recent letter to me. There is room in the Church for liberals because Christ entrusted His Church with the mission of saving souls 
— whether they be liberal or conservative ones. Because the Church stands above the partisan positions of liberal or con­servative, dogma will not, as you say, gradually be modified through the "gentle agitation" of liberals. Nor, I might add, through the perhaps gentler agitation of conservatives. 
k Why is this so? Because the Church is not the monolithic structure depicted by some of its enemies and by some of its friends. Enemies sometimes say that it imposes a Catholic social and moral order on the non-Catholic and friends some­times say the Church has every right to do this. The friends of the Church fail to see that, while. error has no rights, persons do have rights; the enemies fail to see that, while the Church "is one in faith, it is many through the social and political views of its members. Catholic anarchists and revolu­tionaries co-exist with Catholic presidents and citizens. Such differences between Catholics are only rarely "Catholic" dif­ferences. Let us then view the Church as it really is. It is not a 
\ stubborn, intractable medieval giant issuing unilateral com­mands to members and non-members alike, a voracious soul-saver gobbling up those whom it cannot convince. No, the Church is the Body of Christ, without spot or blemish, "a super­natural society, both divine and human, which unites in itself men as co-citizens of the Kingdom of God leading them to eternal life, already begun here below." The Church is the Body of Christ or, as Bossuet said, le Christ repandu et com­munique, Christ Himself diffused and communicated. Amateur theologians confused things mightily when they link a particular political or social order with the awesome Body of Christ. Such was the error of Charles Maurras in recent French history. On the other hand, one may expect that the Church will 
) exercise its authority differently in different times. The Church today does not act publicly in a 13th century or a 16th century manner. And this is not because dogma is changing. It is rather because history is changing and men need to be saved in every ­period of history. The Church chooses the appropriate means for extending the Body of Christ in each age. In our time, it encourages laymen, versed in learning and rooted in faith and charity, to provide the leaven for a new Christendom greater than anything seen before. For a vision of that new Christendom, I refer you to the writings of Jacques Maritain, especially his True Humanism and ^an and the State, from which latter the quotation above was taken. 
I One final thing. There can be no real question of leaving the Church over a conflict between conservative and liberal elements in the Church. One must distinguish between the Church and its members. Kemember, as Chesterton said, the greatest proof of the divinity of the Church is the mediocrity of its members. Let us make no mistake about it: when one leaves the Church, one leaves Christ Himself. 
From a Catholic seminarian: I do not entirely understand your letter to the editor of Time magazine. 
One example of this misunderstanding is the matter of Catholics who view political opportunities as opportunities for their Church. I think Catholic politicians get in office to do good, and, therefore, it naturally leads to the advancement of the Church. If the overzealous "crusader" type Catholic gets 
' into office, I think he kills himself off by trying to further the Church. Looking at your statement, I don't know what you meant. If I were a bigot I could take this any way I,wanted to... 

Professor Keegan's reply: 
I do not believe you and I have a quarrel. If you examine the Time letter closely, you will note that I do not.speak of Catholic politicians, but of Catholic political attitudes in general and in relation to Catholic college students. 
Let me speak however of both' groups, the Catholic poli­tician and the Catholic student I quite agree with yon that the overzealous politician is headed for a short public career. 
I would only add that he deserves olie. ' 
As for Catholic politicians who "get in office to do good, and therefore, naturally (advance their Church)," I wonder if there are as many as you suppose^ especially in mtmicipal government. Regardless, it remains true that a Catholic poli­tician who seeks office to do good (the common gfood) does advance his Church in a natural,'and-thoroughly American, way. One of the best examples of this kind of Catholic poli-Atician is, I think. Senator Eugene McCarthy of Minnesota. However, you and I must be aware that the Catholic in politics is not as frequently judged according to the type of Senator McCarthy, as by men like Franco, and Boniface VHI. And the fact that our adversaries have a very unhistorical argument (even an un-American one, for we have our own breed of impei-fect public officials) should give us litUe comfort. There are enough contemporary examples of medieval political thinking to support, the vulgar, but effective, argument that 
the Church is what Catholics do. 
What are some of these contemporary examples? Let me 
give ones among Catholic college students of your own age. 
Please remember that the force of these examples does not 
come from their number, but their quality. Anyone who has 
been a careful observer of American culture and a student of 
recent European (and Russian) history will'recognize the 
attitudes reflected by these students. They are offered, there­
fore, not as evidence but as illustrations. 
A student magazine crossed my desk just after the Time 
letter appeared. It contained a letter and an article on the 
recent Puerto Eican pastoral letter on Governor Marin. Let 
me give you an excerpt from each one: "We all know of the 
2-cent Catholic who is all the way for birth control, believes 
in the separation of Church and state, and sits in the first row 
in Church on Sunday." . . . "Of course Catholic bishops would 
do the same in America (i.e., the same as the Puerto Bican 
bishops), but America is not a state where nine out of ten 
persons are Catholic. There is no danger of it ever happening 
as long as Americans accept and preserve the fact of a Cath­
olic minority here." 

The last sentence in the quotation above is not reassuring 
in light of the Catholic view on birth control, but this lad 
went on: "It is the duty of American citizens to avoid Com­
munism and to admire democratic and Christian principles... 
because the only way we can keep this government of ours 
in operation is to eliminate persons who don't revere the same 
forms and ideals we do. It is a practical solution to a practical 
problem." (Italics added.) 
These are the voices I hear, and have heard, from hundreds 
of Catholic students over the past ten years in Catholic and 
non-Catholic colleges. Can't yon imagine ~that an American 
non-Catholic might be wondering with some uneasiness what 
the future holds for him if, as one Catholic prelate recenUy 
predicted, America will have a Catholic majority in the next 
hundred years? 

Fortunately, I think there is now only a small minority of Catholics who hold an aggressively intolerant attitude toward their feUow Americans, including Catholic ones who disagree with them. But there is widespread Protestant feeling that this group is either larger than many American Catholics think or that it is capable of growing to be a serious social and political menace in the United States. For my psat, I hope it is smaller than suspected and diminishing daily. But I do not know how large or small it really is. I drawjthe final conclusion that, whatever its size, it is too large. 
Fortunately, too, there is another minority which is grow­ing year by year. This minority is thoroughly Catholic and thoroughly American. It compromises neither faith nor poli­tical views, for it gives to Caesar what belongs to Caesar and to God what belongs to God. The great hope for the American Church lies with this second minorily. 

From an Australian Catholic: 
As a Catholic who takes a fairly close interest in U,S. as 
well as Australian politics, I was very interested to read your 
letter in Time. 

As you possibly know, the issue of religion in politics.has 
been very much to the fore in Australia in the last few years. 
The Democratic Labour Party was formed as an offshoot 
from the Australian Labour Party in 1954, ostensibly on the 
issue of Communist infiltration in the AXJ*. and "nade Union. Since then the 0X.P. has adopted a platform in­
corporating many Catholic principles, notably fierce opposition 
to the recent Commonwealth Divorce Act and support for aid 
for non-state (i.e., mainly denominational) schools. 
Several Australian bishops (with the important exception 
of Cardinal Gilroy of Sydney) have publicly attacked the 
A.L.P. and supported the D.L.P. with varying degrees of fervour. 
Despite the occasional pronouncements that the Church 
has a light and duty to engage in politics (by defining the 
moral issues involved and the teachings of the Church) but 
not partisan politics, some of the bishops seem to have gone 
rather,far from this principle. 

As I see it, if the Church claims to direct Catholic legis­
lators how they shall vote, or censure them if they do not 
vote in accordance with the Church's attitude, on questions 
such as divorce, birth-control, aid to non-state education, etc., 
then we can hardly blame the majority of non-Catholics for 
refusing to elect Catholic legislators. If this is so, then what 
is the place of the Catholic politician in a Catholic minority 
such as exists in the U.S. or Australia? 

Your letter seemed to me to hint that there is a modem practical solution to this question. I could be very grateful if you could possibly comment further on the matter. 

Professor Keegan's reply: ' 
Thank you for your letter. The phenomenon you describe 
is commonly observed on this side of the Pacific. 
First, let me comment on the role of the Democratic Labour 
Party as you present it in your letter. If, as you say, this 
party's platform incorporates specific Catholic prinoiples, it is 
not the proper instrument for a Catholic's participation in poli­
tics, at least in America. Let me explain this paradox. Our land 
has not seen religious divisions erected into political alter­
natives, an advance over the classical European political 
situation. American political divisions turn on state vs. federal 
jurisdiction or matters of economics and foreign policy. These 
quarrels are not religious but political. They make a Democrat 
or a Eepublican, not a Catholic or a Protestant. 
The situation is healthy for the body politic, because it acknowledges the distinction between political and religious matters. The religious person who enters politics must be a politician, not an apologist for his prelate's social and political views. The absence of a religious-political party favors the development of men politically competent, not idealists who work at politics to advance their own denomination (incidental­ly, the system has worked so well in America that another danger has resulted: the phenomenon of the amoral or im­moral politician who is, often enough, a religious person in private life). 
To what values should the Catholic politician attach him­self, since he should not, in a free society, conceive himgplf as an instrument of his Church? The Catholic politician must attach himself to genuine temporal goods: the alleviation of suffering and misery, equality of opportunity in business and social life, technical and cultural education and many other goods. These are worthy of the highest effort of a Catholic. He need not regret that temporal goods are not as high, absolutely speaking, as spiritual goods. Jacques Haritain distinguishes between the absolute common good and the common good in a given order, for example, the temporal order. This is a crucial distinction for the Catholic in American politics. ­
Maritain has also written on America's "secular faith," our faith in' the moral law, the rights and dignity of man, the importance of freedom and the hope for the future. These are authentic values and a Catholic can easily pve assent to them. To be sure, they are secular values which have built the modem world's philosophy of society. But they are not secularist: not relativist, not atheist, not materialist. However heterodox the version, the Gospel did enter temporal life in America in the 17th century and has remained a formative influence in our culture. When Americans took the stand that they would not take a stand on religion, they intended nothing irrdigioQS. They reassigned the role of religion in the new republic; they decided neither to favor nor injure any of America's historic faiths. Several consequences followed: the individlial was free to establish his own relationship with his Creator and the churches were given indepsndoice to assist 
the individual. From ttis point of view, li e Catholic Church 
is as free as any other chnich, as our great growth in America 
testifies. A second consequence of the disestablishment of 
religion was that this rdationship, however conceived and 
practiced, affected in no way the individual's status.as a 
citizen. By the 18th century the sacral age — an age in which 
the persistent ideal of unity made of temporal life chiefly an 
instrument for spiritual aims— wasover. 
Life in a pluralist society can constantly reveal to American 
Catholics that, however mixed with what we Catholics call 
error, there is much that is positive and valuable in American 
life. It can remind both clerical and lay Catholics that poli­
tical instruments for serving their Church directly are not-
available to them. If one encounters a Catholic who thinks i 
his greatest service to the Church is an effort to outlaw birth 
control or divorce or to introduce a diluted version of the 
Baltimore Cathechism in the public school curriculum in a 
"moral and spiritual values" program, one is hearing the 
echoes of an archaic absolutism. 
But the possible conflicts between the American political tradition and Catholic doctrine should not be exaggerated. The capable politician who knows the history and aspirations of his country will not find many conflicts. Secular values are human values because men exist in this world before existing in the next The greatest Catholic thinkers have subscribed to the maxim: horrio sum; humani nihil a me alientim puto. Areas of possible conflict are exaggerated from time to time, for ( example, in the presidential election. There is ihardly an issue in federal or state matters which the Catholic, along with other men of good will, cannot endorse. And when he does disagree, the difference is political or social, only rarely religious. When one speaks of "the opposition of the Church," he often means only the opposition of this or that prelate. The Catholic politician must judge the political preferences of his bishops and priests with the same objectivity that he would demand of a Protestant or Jew in assessing the opinions of their religious leaders. 
For many decades, American Catholics have been firm and untiring defenders of their faith. Today, while continuing to defend it, they must do something mpre. When a Catholic upholds his political tradition by granting to feUow citizens { the right of association and the freedom to express his opinion, he should not think he is, by that fact, supporting the error which may issue from the exercise of this right and freedom. The Catholic faith must surely be defended, but only when it is under attack—and it is not under attack by the American political tradition. The eradication of evil is not the only, nor the first, attitude of a Christian facing an erroneous opinion. Behind every opinion there is a person, and Christian love goes out to persons. In no country should error have rights, but in some countries persons do. America's tradition of reli­gious liberty should not be described as an inducement to g en-or, but as an opportunity for choosing the truth. Above all,' this state of affairs should not be regarded as a weakness in America's body politic, but a source of its very strength and life. Within a vivid awareness of the rights of an American citizen to express his own, sometimes heretical, views, the American Catholic should vigorously defend the truth of his own position while attempting to create "not a fellowship of beliefs, but the fellowship, of men who believe." 
RELATED BEADING Cogley, John^ editor. Religion in America. Meridian Books: New York (1958). 288 pp., pap. (M60), $1.45. Maritain, Jacques, Man and the State. University of Chicago Press: Chicago. Phoenix Books, pap., 219 pp., $1.50. McDonald, Donald, editor. Religion and Freedom. The Fund ( for the Bepnblic: New York (1958). 48 pp. Murray, John Courtney, S J., We Hold These Truths. Catholic Reflections on the American Proposition. Sheed and Ward: New York (1960). 336 pp, $5.00. O'Dea, Thomas, American Catholic Dilemma. Sheed and Ward: New York (1958). 173 pp, $3.00. Weigel, Gustave, S J., Faith and Understanding in America. Macmillan: New Yoric (1959). 170 pp., $3.75. Brown, Bobert McAfee and Weigel, Gustave, SJ., An Amer-{ ican Dialogue. Doubleday: New York (I960). 216 pp., $2.95, pap. (Anchor A257), $0.95. 
Chc\*y Chase, Maryland. He is sun*ivcd by his A tvife and a son. 
EDWARD P. SLAVEN» '27, died in Galcsburg, Illinois, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 

STANXEY A. GRINAGER, '28, ot Pomona. California, died September 4, 1960, according to the Alumni Office. He is sumvcd by his wife. 
MICHAEL R. LAWLER, '28, of Chicago, Illi­nois, died April 22, 1961. Mr. Lawlcr is sun-ived by his widow. 
WILLIAM V. O'HARA, '28, of Manchester, Connecticut, died June 18, 1961, according to Infor­mation received in the Alumni Office. He is sur­vived by his wUe. 
^ DR. EDW.\RD J. LYONS, '29, of Pcrkasic, 
9 PennsyU-ania, died September 27, I96I. Dr. Lyons was a dentist in Perkasic for fourteen years, and fumierly practiced in Philadelphia. He was a pa&t president of the Notre Dame Club of Philadelpliia. Sur\'iving him is his widow. 
REV. THEODORE J. MEHLING, C.S.C., '29. '35, provincial superior of the Holy Cross Fathers* Indiana Pro\ince, died November 14, 1961, in a Santiago, Chile, hospital. Prior to becoming pro­vincial superior in 1950, Father Mchling was presi­dent of the University of Portland and scr\ed as dean of students there. From 1933 lo 1937 he was assistant superior of Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame and assistant head of the English Depart­ment. Father Mehling is sur\ived by two brothers 
• and a sister. 
THOMAS F. MURPHY, '39, died in Fairfield, Connecticut, according to mail returned to the ^Mumni OfHce. No details. 
CHARLES S- GASS, *30, executive vice-presi­dent of Stratham Instruments, Inc., died October 16, 1961, in Beverly Hills, California. He formerly was a special agent for the FBI from 1942 to 1945. Mr. Gass is survixxd by his widow, father, and two sisters. 
GEORGE J. BODEN, '32, died in Merrick, New York, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
THOMAS P. GALBRAITH, '32, of Alexandria, Virginia, died November 14, 1960, according to word received from his wife. 
CHARLES M. QUIGLEY, '32, of Richmond, 

^ Indiana, died August 9, 1961. ilr. Quiglcy was 
9 associated with his father as pharmacist for the 
Quigley Drug Store. He is sur\'ived by his widow, an aunt and two nephews. 
BROTHER CORMAC WALSH, C.S.C., *35, died in Washington, D.C., according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. Brother Cormac was on the staff of the Foreign Missions Seminar>'. 
THOMAS L. KENNEDY, JR., '39, chief counsel for the United Mine Workers ot America, Districts 1, 7 and 9, died October 30, 1961, in Hazelton, Pennsylvania. He was the only son of United Mine U'orkcrs President Thomas L. Kennedy. Mr. Ken­nedy formerly scr\cd as president of the board of trustees of the State General Hospital, tlic 
Hazelton Public Library board ot trustees and a
• director of the Greater Hazelton Heart Association. Sur\'ivors include his wife, three sons, his father, stepmother, and a sister. 
EDWARD G. MEANEY, '40, died in Portland, Oregon, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
RICHARD A. CLEMENS, '41, died in Plainficid, New Jersey, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
REV. THOMAS F. MAHER, '42, died in Pelliam Manor, New York, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
JOHN P. GROGAN, '43, died in Coral Gables, Florida, according to mail returned to the Alumni Oflice. No details. 
HARMON N. SPINA, '43, died in Chicago Heiglits, Illinois, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
LT. JAMES E. CASSIDY, '46, '49, died Novcm­ber 18, 1961, when he was struck by a freight train 
• near the Great Lakes Naval Training Station Hos­pital, Great Lakes, III., where he has been attaclicd since becoming disabled during the Korean War. Survivors Include his father, four sisters and four brothers. 
REV. FRANCIS M. CAHILL, '48, a former MaryknoU mlssioner In Peru, died September 13, 1961, in New York City. Father Cahill was the holder of the M.A. O-xon degree in literature at Oxford University, England, and at the time of his death was on the faculty of the MaryknoU 
^ Seminary at Glen Ellyn, 111. He is survived by two brothers and a sister. 
SORIN HALL FOOTBALL TEAM of 1903 is shown in this lAoto br McDonald Studios, property of Hairy Zolpcr: (1st row, I.-r.) Denny O'Connor, '05, QB; John M. Quinlan, '04, RE; Dr. Leo Dwan, '04; LE & QB; (2nd row, L-r.) Loa Carey, '04, mgr.; Tim O'Nci], '05, LH; Dan Dillon, '04, RH; Harry Hoggn, '04, capt & ¥B; Dam 
J. O'Connor, '05, LT; Bernard Fahy, '05, LE; (3rd row, L-r.) Thomas Linns Kcttfa DoaneHy, '04, RT; Si Kasper, '05, RE; Lawrence M. Antoinc, '04, RG; Edward M. Rcnlbach, '05, LG; Harry \V. Zolpcr, '04, C; Enrique Cancdo, '05, RE; and Frank Bany, '05, RT. 
MOTHER -MARY GEILXLD BARRY, LL.D., 

'52. mother general of tlie Sisters of St, Dominic, 
died at the order's motherhouse in Adrian, Mich., 
November 20, 1961. She is 5ur\'Ived by two broth­
ers, the Rt. Rev. Msgr. William Barr>- and the 
Rev, Fr. Joseph Barr>'. 
THOAIAS F. RO.ME, '53, died m an airplane 

crash November 19, 1961, in Fresno, California. He 
is sur\'ived bv his parents. 
SISTER M. MIGUEL MAYRAND, S.L., '59, of 

Sterling, Illinois, died September 19, 1960, accord­
ing to information received in the Alumni Office. 
JAMES D. HARRIS, '60, of Patchoguq, L.I.. 

New York, died November 10, 1961, in a boating 
accident on the Patapsco River near Baltimore 
whicli also claimed the life of his younger brother, 
William. Mr. Harris was employed with the Na\-\­
Department at the time of his death. Survivors 
include their parents and another brother. 
REV. GEORGE F. HORWARTH, CS.C , died 

In Albuquerque, New Mexico, October 4, 1961, 
according to information received In tlie Alumnt 
Office. Father Horwarth had been mostly engaged 
in parocliial and diaplain duties, llts survivors 
include two brothers. 
Sympathy 

JA.MES J. GLYNN, '26, on the death of his mother, October 19, 1961. BERNARD K., '26 and JOHN J. WINGERTER, '28, on the death of their mother, October, 1961, PROFESSOR FRANCIS E. MORAN, '27, on the death of his mother, October, 1961. 
FRANK HOLDAMPF, '28, on the death of his wife, June 24, 1961 and of his father, August 1, 1961. 
CARL, '31, and JAMES CHRISTIANSON, '39, on the death of their father, November 26, 1961. JOHN Af. BARRETT, '33. on the death of hh mother, September, 1961. THOXL\S J. WALSH, '35. on the deaUi of his mother, December 25, 1961. JERO.ME N. DAVEY, '37, on the death of hh mother, November 22, 1961. CHARLES M. CALLAHAN, '38, on the death of his father, January 1, 1962. JOHN F. REGAN, '43, on the death of his mother, October 19, 1961. WILLIAM J. WALDRON, JR., '44, on the death of his mother, October 22, 1961. WILLLVM D., '47, and JOHN T. CLARK, '49, on the death of their father, December 26, 1961. WILLIAM A. MEEHAN, '48, on the death of his lather, October 5, 1961. HAROLD F. TEHAN, '48, on the death of his father, September 26, 1961. 
WILLIAM A. WOZNUK, '50, on the death of his father. WILLIAM ZEHNPFENMG, '50, on the death of his son. November 28, 1961. EDWARD V. 0'iL\LLEY. '51, on the death of his mother, November 17, 1961. DAVID L. RICHARD, '52, on the death of hif father. May 14, 1959. CRARLES W. ^VHIPFO, '52, on the death of his father. JOSEPH R. WESTER, '54, on the death of hii wife, October, 1961, PETER L. BILUCK, JR., '56, on the death of his father. May 17, I96I. PAUL L. GERACE, '56, on the death of his father, July 15, 1961. GEORGE A. RICHARD, '56, on the death of his father. D.^TEL E. KERVIN, '33, on the death of his father. HUGH J. McGUIRE, '59, on the death ot hU father. RICHARD H. WOLFE, '59, on the death of his father, Frfjruary 7, I960. STEPHEN J. ELEK, JR., '60. on the death of his father. .April 19. 1961. PETER J. HUBER, '60, on the death of hli father. 
50 Yeor Club 

The obituary section above is swollen wth the names of men who have been gone for months but whose deaths were only recently — and perhaps in some instances mistakenly — recorded in postal no­tices foUoiving the recent intensive fund mailings. The list shows a great depletion In the ranks of the Semlcentenarians, and wc ask you to say a pravcr for departed comrades as -we call the n^ . 
ARTHUR PERLEY, '82, died m December, mourned by several generations of political and business colleagues in the South Bend area. He had been a local realtor, banker, businessman and militant Democrat from early years when he drove a mtde team and operated a sawmill. Only re­cently failing health forced hts resignation as presi­dent of the Regular Democratic Club, but he real­ized his desire to vote the ticket In the 1960 na* tioasl elections as he had ior more than 70 years. Deepest s^'mpathy to his wife Alice. 
Other deaths reported In recent months: NA­THANIEL J. NEAUS, '89. of Brooklyn, N.Y.; 
A. W. MAJOR, '93, of Laredo, Tex., former meat-packer and oil operator; REV. ERNEST HAWLEY, '94, Lacon, 111.; EDGAR CRIIXY, '95, Chk^o, lU.; MICHAEL J. FLANNIGAN, SR., 'SS, Omaha, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, FebTuary-Marck, 1962 27 
Neb.: FRANK SEKINGER, '03, of Lancaster. Pa.; HON*. FRANK J. LONERG.^', '04 (sec below), of Portland, Ore., whose death was mentioned only bncfly in a last minute caption under a picture of Notre Dame judges in the November issue; STEPHEN RIORDAN of the same Class, formerly an attomev and political leader in Chicago; CHARLES T. McDERMONT, *05, Santa BaAani, Calif.: LEROY J. REACH, '08, Indianapolis, Ind.; CHARLES A. HANNAH of Buifalo, N.Y., and W.ALTER HEEKIN, SR., of Cindnnaii, O., both members of the Class of '09; and WILLUM A. DUFF\*, '11, of Butler, Pa. 
Notes on the late Judge Lonergan have been pouring in from all comers since his death in October. Notable tributes came from Semicenten­arians BILL SCHMITT, *I0, of Portland's Schmitt Steel, and from special correspondent H.ARRY ^\". ZOLPER, *(H, of Rapid City, S.D., who wrote: ". . . nowhere do I find a note on our loss of 'HAPPY* LONERGAN, '(H, Law, Portland circuit judge. .. . I found this sad news in my Elks magazine. It devoted a page in front and its edi­torial page in back to his demise. . . . Frank J. Lonergan was one of our grandest national leaders of the Elks, a top hand in the Knights of Columbus, and a true Catholic in that Oregon school fight 20 years ago. I sec by the Denver Register, now that Happy is gone, the natives are going to ask tijcir Supreme Court to rcvic^v that case. . . . Happy and I joined the South Bend K. of C. Council on May 29, J904. Earlier, on Easter Monday c^xning, lie and I shared a cab to haul our dates from South Bend (whom we had met through classmates just once before) to the first Easter ball c\'cr held in the N.D. g^Tn. We were sure a pair of tongue-tied Illinois hayseeds, he from Polo, I from Mcndota; but that Irishman had the best gift of gab at that. 
"Also, I remember Lonergan as our 1903 fast right halfback in that 0-0 Northwestern game; with LOU SAIALAN at full, GEORGE NYERE the other Italf, NATE SILVER at quarter, and bow­legged, freckled, redheaded FRANK *SHAG' SHAUGHNESSY at right end. from Amboy, 111. . . . We Jost one of our grandest classmates when we lost Frank J. Lonergan." 
TOM MAGEE, *32, sccrcta^^• of tlie Notre Dame Club of Portland, wrote that *'thc enclosed editorial from *The Orcgonian* (Oct. 6, 1961) gives a far better epitaph on Judge FRANK J. LO.VERGAN, '04. than anything I can say. Except perhaps that Notre Dame was long and loud on his lips. Our gatherings will be more drab for want of his color­ftd personality. This in an area where 35 years ago tliey tried to close Catholic schools! 
"His Grace Archbishop Edward D. Howard, D.D., officiated at the Requiem Mass in St. ^far^**s Catlie­dral, where Frank had been an usher for 55 years. Celebisnt w:as Frank's brother. Father Joseph At. Lonergan, and deacon was Frank's nephc\v. Father John P. McGratli, pastor of St. Patrick's Church, 
Delmar, Iowa. Twenty fellow jurists, the 4th 
Degree Knights of Columbus, and over 300 people 
attended. U. S. District Court JUDGE JOHN F. 
KILKENNY, '26; Postmaster ALBERT M. 
"DUKE" HODLER, '23, and GENE MURPHY, 
'24, were among the active pallbearers. Judge 
Loner^n lea\-cs no immediate family of his own, 
his wife ha^ng predeceased him many years. R.I.P." 
The Oregonian editorial to which BILL 
SCHMITT, TOM MAGEE, and others referred, 
reads as follm%-s: "FRANK J. LONERGAN, who 
died ^Vedncsday at the age of 79. carried the cour­
age and sportsmanship of competitive sports into 
the profession of la^v, into politics and government, 
and to the circuit court bench. He was a man 
who sa\*ored life to the full, 'who understood people 
and their actions and redactions, and was a fine 
law>'cr and Judge because of it. 
"Judge Lonergan worked at the strategy and stratagems of politics, as a member of the Oregon Legislature and in many a Republican Party cam­paign away from it, as if lie were planning a win­ning game for the bruising football teams of the ^tuItnotnall Club or his alma mater, Notre Dame, \%-herc he was a great player. His thousands of friends, in all cmplo\'mcnts and professions, de­lighted in his \ictorics and dicercd him in defeats, whicli were rare. He was immensely liked. 
*'It is not so much as a lawv-er, legislator or judge that he will be remembered, but as a per­sonality. He was the center of any gathering, and loved ever}' minute of it, dcli*"ering his views on a vast \"aricty of subjects with fluency- and sharp dis­cernment, but alwa>'s in good humor. He will be greatly missed." 
We are further indebted to the aforementioned IL\RRY ZOLPER for the 1903 Sorin football team picture on these pages. About it he wrote: "In my dlar>' I read that the annual Sorin-Corby foot­ball game for 1903 occurred on Thursday morn. Nov. 5; score, Sorin 0, Corby 0. Once Corby held Sorin on the one->*ard line. Sorin's D.-\N DILLON had his collarbone broken in the second half, and JOHN QUINLAN had hU hand laacrated. ED REULBACH was ordered out of the game near the close ot the second IialL Corby's riglit end CHARLIE KANE had his right arm twisted out of joint, and their left halfback FRtVNK TOIOfEY lost six tcetli. HARRY HOGAN and little Quinlan were Sorin's best ground gainers. Diary notes on the 1902 Corby-Sorin game are britt also. Score: Sorin 6, Corby 0. Hogan was captain and fullback. Corby Hall's BILL MULCRONE received the sec­ond half kickolT, made a fine return to Sorin's six-i.'ard line where he decided that he was run­ning toward the wrong goal, turned around and got to about the 20 before he u-as tackled by a teammate. Mul was so sure. Some 40 Corb>ites ciiargcd two huskies and m>'5elf to take a bugle away from me whicli I was using to help our cheerleaders." 
PAUL R. MARTIN-DILLON, '09, of The Eve­
ning Times, Cumberland, Md., contributes: 
"It was with nostalgic interest that I read Harry ^ 
Zolper's tribute to the memory of the late ED V 
REULBACH in the November issue of the ALUM­
NUS. As a professional writer I cannot resist the 
temptation to accept the in\*itation to add more 
to the memories of those days. I could write a 
book on the subject of Notre Dame as I knew it 
as far back as 1898, but I iv-ill confine myself this 
time to comment on Ed Reulbach and his friend, 
JOE DO.ANE. Tlie details concerning Ed which 
come to my mind at present seem to have been 
forgotten. 
"Ed entered Notre Dame in the autumn of 1901. That u-as the beginning of my final year in the preparatory school. Like many upperdass preps I had a room in Corby Hall together with a con­siderable number of students ^vho had collegiate ^ status. My room was next to that of a freshman " from Cincinnati named Joe Doane, who in a prep school in his home city had demonstrated his ability as a baseball pitcher. Joe and Ed Reulbach were great friends, and as Ed frequently \Tsited Joe's room I got to know him much better than might have been the case otherwise. 
'*Joc, I want to say in passing, was a brilliant 
student and had been well prepared in the classics 
by the Jesuits. His favorite amusement during his 
leisure hours was translating current popular songs 
into Latin. I well remember his Latin version of 
*Rip Van "Winkle Was a Lucky Man.* 
"Ed Reulbach was himself a fine student and came to Notre Dame with a good prep school reputation as both a football and baseball player. ^ He immediately answered the call for football V candidates (freshmen were permitted to participate in all \'ai3ity athletics tn those days) and it is quite likely he would have made the team except for an accident. In just about the first practice scrim­mage in which he took part, he broke his leg and football was definitely out for him. I don't believe he ever tried to make the varsity team again. 
^'However, to most of us baseball was just as important as football and we ^vere sure Ed would be ready for the baseball team in the spring. But again Fate stepped In. FATHER STOEFFEL, a tcaclicr of Greek at Notre Dame wbo was at the same time pastor of St. Joseph's Churcli in South Bend, died. The entire student body attended the funeral at the church an'd cemetery. Returning from the cemctar>', Ed Reulbach (whose leg was in good shape by that time) decided to take a ^ short cut instead of going around through tlie gate. W He tried to leap over the fence tliat surrounded the cemetery- but slipped and fell on the iron pickets. He was so badly injured that he could net tr>' out for the basdiall team. 
"If Ed was able to attend any baseball games that Spring, he sat in the grandstand with the rest of us. HARRY HOG.\N, BILL HIGGINS and JOE DOANE did the pitching and they were all top notchers. Notre Dame had a splendid season. The high spot — for the students — was during the 
GOLDEN WEDDING ANNIVERSARY last fall united Mr. and Mrs. Thomas L. Hickey, Sr., (seated, center) with seven children plus their husbands and wives and a legion of grandchildren. Mr. Hickey, South Bend contractor and intimate friend of the late Knute ^ Rockne, had six alumni sons: Tom, Jr., '35; Louis, '37 (deceased); Don, '38; Jerry, '41; John, '44; and Joe, '50. W 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, Fehruary-March, 1962 
pre-season period when tlie Cliicaso Whhc Sox came to Notre Dame for a week of training and played 

• the Notre Dame team every day. The Sox won all the games. TTic only Sox players that come to mind now arc Clark Griffith and William (Frank) Isbell. 
"The Notre Dame catcher that year was PHIL *PE/\CHES' O'NEILL, then a Senior. For a short time after graduation he played with the Cincin­nati Reds but returned to Anderson, Indiana, his home town, to practice law and he became one of that city's outstanding attorneys. I am sure that neither Hogan, Doanc nor Higgins ever played pro­fessional baseball. Harr>* Hogan became a bank president in his native Fort Wayne, Doanc went into his father's shoe business in Cincinnati, and I do not know what became of Bill Iliggins. (Ed. Note: An attorney in Boston, he is now deceased. 
**ED REULBACH, as a sophomore, made the baseball team in the spring of 1903, as he did in 19(H and 1905. But as a college pitclicr he was by no means sensational. All tlic other pitchers of the team were just as good as he was. There was a reason for this. Ed u-^is a hot weather pitcher and the college Season was not long enough for him to get warmed up. But the big league scouts evidently realized this and recognized hb potentialities for in 1905 he was grabbed for the Chicago Cubs, The world knows what happened after that. He was a grand person and his death is a loss to Notre Dame." 
Tlianfcs to PAUL AfARTIN-DILLON for this 

^ reminiscence and, finally, deepest 5\'mpathy to Col. 
#an d Mrs. R, OTTO PROBST, '11, of South Bend on the death of their son, Rudolph, Jr. 
B. J. "Ben" Kaiser 604 East Tenth St. Berwick, Pa. 
JAY L. "BIFFY" LEE (Lee Hills, .Maple City. >nch.) u-as the first to REGISTER for the GOLDEN JUBILEE. Who will be the number 2? To make proper arrangements for the three-day reunion wc must know well in advance how many of us will be there for our LAST FOR.\fAL GATHERING. 

^.After that you all will automatically become mem­bers of the 50-YEAR CLUB wherein your identity is merged with the members of the previous classes, so this is your last chance to meet as a CLASS. Please let mo know as soon as possible that you WILL BE THERE. 
"BIFFY" is enjoying his retirement and says emphatically 'my wife and I consider the past ten years as the best of our lii'es.' I have been retired for the past three years, and I fully second his sentiments. 
You have received from the Alumni Office a list of the 1912 CL;\SS members, live, missing and departed. Sec how many of the 22 iffSSING mem­bers you can locate before the BIG EVENT. 
Following arc excerpts from Biffy Lee's earlier letter to JI.NI ARMSTRONG: *'I break in on another of your busy days, Jim, 
for two reasons: (First) this is my seventy-fifth 

.^birthday and (Second) while spending the montli 
^o f August in a Traverse City hospital I heard tliat 
JESSE HARPER died at age seventy-seven recently. 
"I hope and plan to attend the 50th reunion of my class of 1912 next spring and would like to make an early rescr\*ation. I have not been on the campus since wc had lunch together in 1957. . . . If it is true that Jesse Harper has died then I am ihc only living member of the coaching (football) staff of 1916, I believe. Ha^-ing attended Rockne's funeral, knouing that FATHER HUGH O'DON­NELL passed on some years ago, I am under the 

• impression that you told me in 1957 that FREENL\N FITZGERALD had also dkd. If that impression is based on fact and Jesse is also gone then, since there ^vere but five of us on the staff that year, I must constitute the remainder. 
*'TTic major job for Fitz and myself was with the freshmen plus part-time work with the varsity. Among other boys who made the \'arsity later was GEORGE GIPP; he made that 62-yard drop-kick for us at Kalamazoo as a freshman. 
**0f interest to you, Jim, will he my receiving today a nice message from PAUL HOEFFLER. I recall that you and your wife had visited the Hocfllers in Providence early in 1957. If you haven't heard recently from Paul you will be pleased to learn that his wife is in good health at present and that his son has finished his army hitch and is connected w*ith a fashion photographer in New York City. . . . My regards to Father John Cavonaugh and ifoosc Kraose." 
I have made contact with most of the members 
by means of personal Christmas Cards. So far only 
the one sent to EDWARD M. BRUCE, 7220 N. 
Keystone, Chicago 46, 111., was returned as un­
claimed. 
ARTHUR A. KEYS informs me that his brother 
.Albert, who has been on our '"Unclaimed" list 
for some years, died in ^farch, 1954. Please say a 
retroactive prayer for AI. Arthur also states ihai 
he will try to make the '"Golden Jubilee." 
1914 
Walter Clements 623 Park Avenue South Bend, Indiana 
TWOMEY M. CLIFFORD, once known as tlic oracle of Delphi (fnd.), is winding up his varied career by being elected Municipal Judge of Cam­den, Ark, For a time he once presided over the City Court of Indianapolis. .An officer of the 14th Infantry division in World War I, he has been city attorne>' of Camden. In the early '30*s he u*as a special agent of the F.B.L in bank matters. He resigned recently as assistant counsel for the Inter­national Paper Company after 19 years of ser\ice, when his tmvnsmcn voted him into duty again. 
JOE W*ALSH is enriching his days of retirement in Spokane by spearheading the Notre Dame Chal­lenge campaign. 
Wc note change of address for CECIL E. BIRD­ER. Srd now hVes at 99 E. 34tb St., ^linncapolis 19, Minn. Also for REV. GEORGE STRxVSSNER, OJS.B., with a new address at New Subiaco Abbey, Subiaco, Ark. And for classmate F. R. GWA­NAUGH, now at 214 Homewood, Warren, Ohio. 
FRANK RYAN has just iiad a Wsit from iiis brother, ED, who finished in a later class. Frank now lives at 6721 S.E. 34 Avenue, Portland 2, Oregon. Ed, prior to visiting Frank, made a sev­eral weeks' trip to Ireland last sunuucr. 
Wc now present what we hope will be the first of a scries of profiles-in-deptli of colorful Four­teeners and their families: 
MR. ASD MRS. SIMEO.N T. FLANAGAN, '14 

With mixed emotions one writes about a class­mate forty-seven years after taking hand in w*riting a thumbnail sketch of him to accompany his youth' ful picture in the '14 Dome. But the inten'ening career of SIMEON T. FLANAGAN, lawyer of New York City, has been so interesting and filled with worthwhile accomplishments that without an eX' 
tension of remarks the record ivould be incomplete. 
Sim didn't become a Tammany leader as sug­gested in class prophesies. But he appears to be outlasting the bo\-s in the Hall. He still will main­tain, however, that Champ Clark would have made a better nominee than Woodrow Wilson. 
Beginning his career in taw with the late PETER 
P. .McELLIGOTT, another great Notre Dame man, Sim has made New York City his headquarters ever since. But he has handled more cases abroad than any lawj'cr we know and is at home in South .America, the British hies and continental Europe. Wherever he has gone both his beloved Notre Dame and New York have accompanied him, as passing years have mellowed and ripened him into the gentle elder whose windows now look out from the old Madbon Square hotel. 

It is a far cry from the room Sim once shared with the late J. P. McEVOY. The two starving cub reporters fort he old News-Times would rej'oicc whca they were assigned to cover a banquet. 
In their apartment on the hotel's seventh floor Sim and his wife, Edith arc gracious hosts. De­voutly Catholic, they spread good will about the place where linger memories of such notable occu­pants as P. T. Bamum and General John J. Persh­ing. The former neighboring Madison Square garden is now gone, but next door is the Man­hattan club once built for his residence by the late Leonard Jerome (maternal grandfather of Sir Winston Churchill). The club has the reputation of being the point of origin of the Manhattan cocktail. 

In the days when Rockne's team used to play the Army and Princeton one week apart, Sim's residence was a rendezvous for Notre Dame rooters. There you might have met the Currys of Hartford, HUGH O'DONNELL of the Times, LUKE KELLY, Congressman WILLIA.M J, GR.ANDFIELD (Peaches), ED McHUGH of CindnnaU, and many others including the late JOE GARGfVN, who was admitted to tlic New* York bar from Sim's office. 
Those of us who remain regard Sim as a rugged rear guard for the belter things of a former day with a seasoned insight into the present. 
In addition to Mrs. Flanagan, Sim's immediate family consists of one son, Vincent, who has chosen the Marine Corps as a career. On occasions of Vincent's visits one may at times hear the voice of this McCormick-likc Irish tenor enriching the Madison Square. 
1915 
James £. Sanford I429W.FarragutAv. Chicago 40, Illinois 

From the .Alumni Office: If it hasn't been mentioned before, DR. JOHN 
B. O'DONAGHUE of Lake Forest, 111., professor of surgery at Loyola's Stritch Scliool of Medicine, was installed last Septembec as second president­elect of the U-S. section of the International Col­lege of Surgeons. Dr. O'Donaghuc had previously ser\cd as sccretar>- of the organization and visited Russia last June on an official good ^vill tour. 
Last fall was a busy one for JOSEPH M. BYRNE, JR., of Newark, N.J. Out to the campus for Trustee meetings (and incidentally to participate in the Na\y game rally), he also had an auspicious occasion in October — Friday the 13tli — the 75th anniversary of Jos. M. Bj-rnc Co., insurance and travel agency founded by his father Joseph, Sr,, '79, of which he is now board chairman and his son, Joseph III, *47, president. (Sco picture in this issue) 
Sympathy to the widow and son of RAYMOND 

J. SULLIVAN of the Law Qass, who died in late November in New Hampton, Iowa, where he had been a trial attorney active in civic and reli­gious affairs for more than 40 years. 
(Ed. Note: You may have heard, \-ia Chicago Tribune Press Service or Kup's Column in the Chicago Sun-Times, about Secretary JIM SAN-FORD's trip to Washington last fall to call the Russian bluff after Premier Khrushchev praisetl 
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 2962 29 . 
the peace message of Pope John XXIII. Jim de­livered a personal note to Russian Ambassador Mikhail Menshikov suggesting that the Russian government, through proper diplomatic channels, 
inWtc His Holiness to address the United Nations on peace. He received this reply from the am­bassador's assistant Olcg Sokolov: "This is to acknowledge receipt of your letter .. . by the Ambassador who is currently leaving for New York. Your letter lias been forwarded over to Moscow and we \\TI1 be glad to inform you upon receiving a reply." So far no reply to tins one-man solution to the Berlin crisis, disarmament, etc, but keep us posted, Jim. J.L.) 
1916 
Grovcr F. Miller 
612 Wisconsin Ave. 
Racine, Wisconsin 

The following sorrowful intelligence from TIM­OTHY P. GALVIN, senior attorney- of GalWn, Galvin & Lecnc>*, Hammond, Indiana: 
"It becomes my sad duty to report the passing of another member of the Clat^s of 1916. 
"HUGH £. a\RROLL died at his home here in Hammond on December 11. He had been in seem­ingly good health and apparently his death was due to a heart attack. 
"Hugh had practiced law in East Chicago and 

Hammond practically all of the time since his 
graduation in the Law Class. In recent years he 
devoted a great deal of attention to a manufac­
tiu-ing enterprise known as Rcdi-Bolt, Inc. 
"PAT ifALONEY and m>-sclf represented the 

Class at the Requiem Mass held at St. John Bosco 
Church in Hammond on December 13." 
Thanks, Tim, and s\Tnpathy to Hugh's survivors, 

who have been told of a remembrance in a special 
Mass on tlie campus January 6. 
Tliis is not HUGH ST.ANLEY CARROLL, also 

of our era, a research chemist last heard from at 
Bucknell Uni\'ersit>' in Penns\-K*ania. There is also 
an unconfirmed report on the death of EDWARD 
J. BECKMAN of Syossct, N.V., who had been at St. Ed*s University in Texas. 
To Tim, Pat and all the faithful who gatliered last June — and to all who wish they had — a Happy Sew Year. 
reunion 
1962 
June 
8-9-10 
1917 
Edward J. McOskcr 525 N. Melrose Ave Elgin, Illinois 

Kluch appreciated letters have been received by your correspondent from classmates D.ANIEL E. HILGARTNER, JR., and EDWARD J. ROGERS. Also received a most welcome Christmas card from LEO BERNER and wife, Lula, of South Bend. 
Danny now lives at Forest Springs, Harbert, Xlichigan, after many, many years as a resident of Chicago and a member of the Chicago Tribune organization. He advises that he has received a letter from KWTT TRUDELLE, who reports that Mr. and Mrs. BERXIE VOLL (B. and B.) re­laxed during November In Phoenix, Arizona, where the Trudellcs saw them frequently. Bemie recently moved up to board chairman of Sibley Machine & Foimdry Corp., and his son Bill is nou- vice-presi­dent for sales. 
THREE GENERATIONS of Joseph M. Byrnes show a portrait of the founder of Jos. M. Byrne Co., New Jersey insurance and travel agency, which observed its 75th anniversary last fall. Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., *15, is flanked by Joseph M. Byrne III, '47, 
(right) and Joseph IV. (Newark News photo) 
ED ROGERS is president and general manager of La\Tic-Xorlhwcst Company in Milwaukee, reg­istered professional engineers. He had intended being at Notre Dame the weekend of Novembr 17 and 18 for a meeting of the engineering and science council, but another commitment forced him to change his plans. Ed now has a Iiome in Delray Bcacli, Florida. 
Congratulations to H.\RRY BAUJ.AN on 40 years on the campus of the University of Dayton as a coach and recently as mudi beloved athletic director. 
Attome\- ELMER C. TOBIN', fellow townsman of your correspondent, and wife, Helen, made evcr>­home game at Notre Dame this fall. They week­ended on cacli occasion at the home of their son-in-law and daughter, Mr. and Mrs. Carl O. Talf, Jr., in Michigan City. 
Incidentally MATT TRUDELLE is in the pink and planning to attend the forty-fifth reunion in June. How about you, classmates? 
From the xMumni Office: OTTO KUHLE died last September 27 in Minne­apolis after a splendid career in government and militar>* scr\'ice. S>'mpathy to his widow Dorotliy, his daughter Janice and son Ralph, now Fratcr Scotus in Cleveland's Franciscan Seminary. Special s>Tnpathy to .ALBERT KUHLE, '15, who lost brothers Otto and Hcnr>', '11, in 1961. An un­confirmed report also had classmate EMIL SCHOX­L;\U listed as deceased in Syracuse, N.Y. 
1918 
Charles W. Call 225 Patcrson Ave Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey 

JOHN J. VOELKERS, track team star, informs that he has given up on Florida in favor of the Chicago area. "Except for tlie climate I had little in common uith Florida," he opines, adding *'therc is more to do and sec up here," meaning Oak Park, III. 
GEORGE WAAGE reports that he had a pleas­ant \-isit with BILL BRADBURY recently, at Rob­inson, III. The two Notre Damers had not seen each other for 40 years, and the>' had a gala time conversationwTse. 
George has retired, as previously noted, and is enjoying his first automobile. He characterizes himself as a super-careftd driver. He wasn't care­ful the night he ran a mile with one shoe torn off the first quarter on that hard indoor dirt track when it wzs 12 laps prior to World AVar I. 
Spent four days in Madrid in October, flying over for the btdlfights, which thrilled and appalled me at the same time. Hope to greet some of the class who look me up in hibernation in Winter Haven, Fla. Happy New Year. 
1921 
Dan W. Duffy 1101 Superior BIdg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 

From the Alumni Office: 
The New York Times last fall devoted a large part of its business section to JOHN E. KENNY, who spent a couple of years with the Class before going on to Carnegie Tech and eventually to the presidcnc>- of Foster ^Vhceler Corporation, one of the world's largest builders of plants for petroleum, ^ diemicals and other industries. John and his wife " Carolina (nee Green) have a daughter, Katherine, and live on Sutton Place in New York City, a short stroll from the Fifth Ave. headquarters of Foster Wheeler's prosperous operation. 
In a note to FATHER HESBURGH, U,S. 7th Circuit Court of Appeals JUDGE ROGER KILEY wrote last October: "You'd have been proud of the Notre Dame representation at the 14-staie con­ference of Federal Judges at Highland Park last week. BILL FOLEY, general counsel of the House Jutliciar>' Committee in Washington, was a prin­dpal speaker. JUDGE CLIFF O'SULLIVAN of the 6th Circuit Court of Michigan, Judges LUTHER SWITGERT and Kiley of the 7th Circuit, Chicago, and JUDGE BOB GRANT of the District Court at South Bend, were present. Then the speaker of the evening tvas ROBERT KENNEDY, intro­duced among otlier things as a member of the Law Sdiool Advisory Council. A wag among the judges | ^ suggested that next year we bring a cheerleader." 
Congratulau'ons to DR. THOMAS N. SHEEN, chairman of the I96I Christmas Seal campaign of the New York Tuberculosis and Health Association centering in Manhattan. 
THOMAS J. GLYNN, who started with the Minims in '09 and left for W.W. I after his fresh­man year, was recently reported deceased by his brother James, '26. He died and was buried in Los Angeles after living many years in Los Angeles. Sincere sympathy to his flaughter and other sur\'iwng:^ relatives. No detuls have been confirmed on the re-V* 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus, February-Marchj 1962 
ported death of LEO J. MOMSEN in £1 Paso, Al's improved health, and pray that lie can make mately successful efforts to save his home in the ^cx., where he was an officer m the export firm of the trip to the campus to attend our June sym­midst of a devastated area. PNfomsen Dunnegan Ryan Co. and active in Notre posium. From HARRY FLANNERY: Ruth and I have 
Dame Club and Foundation affairs. Lro, Jr., Avas Mrs. EDWIN J. BYRNE (Irene) has a new been spending several days at Key West .. . here graduated in 1957. address —2800 July St., Apt. 15, Baton Rouge, for the AFL-CIO convention . . . ^^ile in Fort 
1922 
G. A. "Kid" Ashe 175 Landing Rd. No. Rochester 25, N. Y. 
From all indications great interest is developing among our classmates for the gala 40th Reunion carded for nc.\t June 8, 9 and 10 on the campus. Many arc ^^Titing in to say that it is a "must" 

^\vith them. That grand buckeye Daytonian, FRANKIE BLASIUS, even goes so far as to say that our class reunions arc almost a part of his marriage contract, and that the pleasure of attend­ing the 40th began as soon as the 35th was over. 
Our deepest sympathy is extended to Mr. and Mrs. JAMES C. SHAW, 4160 Greenwood Drive, Dcs Moines, lou'a, in the death of their beloved daughter, Sheila, age 22, from cancer after an illness of eight months. Death occurred on Sep­tember 10. Sheila was bom in Dcs Moines, and attended Barat College, Lake Forest, 111., Duchesne College, Omaha, and St. Mary's Academy, Notre Dame. Please do not forget Sheila in your prayers. 
HON. A. A. SCOTT, judge of the Superior Court of California, writes from Los Angeles: *'I know you will be happy to learn that our son, FATHER AL, is still located in Santa Barbara, and cnjoy-

Ming his work immensely. Likewise, our daughter, Mary Ellen, is very happily married to Wayne G. Anastasi last June 24 at San Pedro, California, by RT. REV. GEORGE SCOTT, brotlicr of Judge Scott in the monsignor's own church — Mar>% Star of the Sea. 
"I have received all of the publicity concerning the class reunion next June, and have marked it down on my calendar. I sincerely hope that my health will continue to improve after my recent operations, and I definitely plan on being there if at all possible." 
Mrs. AL SCOTT sends in her own little note to augment hubby's. She reports Al's illness covered a period of tlircc months — critically ill, and under-

Bgoing two major operations in ten da>*s. She in­forms us that Father Al's parish in Santa Barbara Is that of our Lady of Guadalupe; also, that their son, Joseph, recently entered business for himself in the field of public relations. The newly^veds, Mr. and Mrs. W. G. .-Vnastasi, are living at 691 Bircli Ave., Hawthorne, Calif. We rejoice in Judge Louisiana. She Is affiliated with the Quality In­surance Agenc>', 239 America St., In Baton Rouge. 
JOSEPH A. SINGLER u-as reported deceased In Sandusky, O., by workers in tlic Notre Dame Challenge campaign. 
Other new addresses arc: JOHN P. CULLEN, S42 N. Water St., Milwaukee 2, Wise; HARRY 
J. MEHRE, 1121 Spring St., S.W., Atlanta 9, Ga.; DANIEL H. YOUNG, Aronomink Arms Apait­mcnts, Drexcl Hill, Pa.; BERNARD J. DWYER, 926 N. Main St., Apt. 706, Peoria, III.; RALPH 
G. ITTENRACH, 4014 New Jersey St., Indianapolis 5, Ind.; RICHARD W. McCARTY, 120 — 36 St., N.E., Canton, Ohio. 
A postal from the JOHN P. CULLENS informs us that their youngest son, Peter, is a freshman at Notre Dame. The Cullens took in the Southern Cal and Navy football games. J. P. also reported a Chicago visit with JOE FARLEY. 
Star reporter RAY GIRARDIN has been stellar as chief probation ofHccr for Recorder's Court since the Detroit Times closed down in 1960. Ray's article In the Detroit Lawyer's December Issue shows what an expert criminologist he is. 
'22 Is calling you. 
1923 
Louis V. Bniggner 2165 Riverside Dr. South Bend, Indiana 
Happily, I have no more deaths to report, but some sickness and misfortune. To bring you more details on the death previously reported of GEORGE DEVER . . . pallbearers included our Classmates JAMES YOUNG, JOHN STEPHAN, LOUIS De-SMET and JACK NORTON . . . George lived with his daughter in Glcnvlcw, III. He was editor of The Juggler In our time. Norton reported that George had willed his eyes to cliarity and George's sister reported to Norton that two people had already benefitted, since one person may re­ceive only one eye in such a case. Our informant sa>-s DeSmet has already made similar arrangements for his death, and was probably infiucntlal In George's act, having talked to him previously about it. George had been ailing for two years. 
Mx\URIE D.ACY is bearing a heavy cross. Fol­lowing up my last letter concerning his wife's ill­ness, I heard from Maurle himself that "cvcr>'thing is being done to keep her comfortable as possible." 
Out of the blue from PLIN SW^VNSON came a 
handwritten note. In part: "perhaps some of our 
Classmates may recall that I live in Brentwood (Los 
Angeles) and wonder how we came through the 
disastrous fire . . . the enclosed chronicle Is a 
copy of a letter I sent to relatives. .. . I alu-ays 
look fonrard to your letters with interest." En­
closed w:is a report (forwarded to the Class in a 
newsletter) of his desperate, dangerous and ulti­Wayne CUFF WARD and I discussed GEORGE 
N. SHUSTER'S new book and tboti^t you migtit be able to offer autographed copies to members of the Class through your store . . . something » little personal if George would be wilUn; to take time. Harry vvas referring to Dr. Shuster's book 
•'The Ground I Walked On,** recently published (Farrar, Straus & Cudahy $4.50) and widely pub­licized, most recently as the cover story in Jubilee magazine, December Issue (A.MJ).G. Publishing Co., 184 W. College Ave., St. Paul, Minn.) Far be it from me to fend off a volunteered buck or two, so I shall accept the proposal to get CN.S.'s autograph on any copies you order from Bruggner's Book Store, 127 W. Washington, South Bend, Ind. (adv.) As a matter of fact, what with Dr. Shuster's wide travels since coming to N.D., and with my preoccupation with my matters cooomcrcial, I have failed (to my shame) to visit him. This would be the right opening for me, two birds with one stone, etc The Shusters may be addressed at their home, 2809 York Road, South Bend 14, Indiana. The book referred to is the account of the genial doctor's years as president of Hunter CoUcgc, New York City, but it has a number of references to personages such as Father John J. Cavanaugh, Father Nleuwland, Father Hesburgh ct al., and it strikes a responsive chord in the mind of the Notre Dame reader. I'm about half way through it and recommend it. 
This book review section would also not be com­plete If I did not mention "Pattern for Peace" edited by HARRY W. FLANNERY (Newman Press $5.75), supposedly released ior publication In December. Harry presents a completely indexed book of statements on peace and intematiGoal life from Leo XIII through Jc^n XXIU, and indicates his purpose In his preface: "Catholics have a rcsposlbility to be familiar with and to try to apply the principles set forth in the encyclicals. . . . May this volume help them to know . . . and not be satisfied with good intentions . . . but to put them into practice." We do not yet have "Pat­terns'* in stock, but I shall be happy to get Harry's autograph on all copies ordered . . . takes a little doing but it can be done. 
A Tarjcta Postal from Mexico, dated October 28, signed by KEVIN CURRAN, MJ>., and a Correo .-\ereo letter from Acapulco, signed by the same, indicate that our otolaryngorhlnologist classmate is enjoying life (as all bachelors do). His new and permanent address is Kansas City Club, Kansas City, Mo. His business address is 1805 Federal Reserve Bank Building, also in K.C. 
HY HUNT vvTOtc again prior to the Iou*a game, "upset over death of GEORGE DEVER .. . had not seen him since graduation . . . did talk to him over phone at NJ}.-Navy game in 1928. . . . He was one of those I wanted to see so much at the 1958 reum'on. . . . P.S. If N.D. doesn't beat Iowa tills year. . . ." (No later word. Has retired into seclusion.) 
In the more than eight years since I was chosen Class secretary I have heard from many Class­mates, have t^ked to many others, and have heard about still others who are unable or unwilling to write. It has been an altogether happy experience, dimmed only by the passing of friends among us. 

CLASS OF 1928 party after the Northwestern game last fall lured masochists including (left) Geo. Kelly, Heib McCabe, Viace WaU, Wm. H. Murphy, John Lahey, Ed Rafter, Joe Griffin, Bemie Garher, Ed. Dean, Joe Langton, Leo McIntyic; (i^t ) Marphy, "till Kirwan, Dick Quinlan, Mike Hogan, Bemie Schuh, Mclntyre, Howie Phalin, Joe Morrissey, John P. Smidi, Jnn Allaii, Joe Dona, 
'aul Brady, and Lou Buckley. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 
I have learned of successes and failures, good for­tune and bad, bachelorhood and big families, en­thusiasm and discouragement and even utter despair. But through it all I have sensed in all of us a steady grip on the maxims and admonitions of the Ca\-anaugh5, the Wenningers, the Fronlngs and Cooneys and McCanh\-s and Shuster^ and Ho>-nes of the years wc spent on campus. Their \'oiccs intrude on us when wc need them. Wc have a heritage wc can't deny or disown. Neither Uy I-raguc nor Opulent State U can bequeath that which wc inherited at Xotrc Dame. 

So that, in summary, we look back on almost 40 years of life since we parted, and Wc rc-c\*aluate what it all amounts to. For myself, I shall not attempt to answer or even to plirase ihc questions of life in detail. I shall only point out that it behooves evcr>* one of us to resolve lo come back on campus in June of 1963. "Martha, Martha,'* it was once said, "tliou art anxious and troubled about many things; and yet only one thing is needful." The cost, the difficulty, the incon­venience of coming is secondare'; we should all come, whether by air or rail or car or band-car. The boys you knew in '23 will be coming, and regardless of how you liave answered the questions I raise, vou will be heartened by coming. Life should be better for your haxing come. Lay your plans now and let's make our attendance in '63 surpass that of '58 c\'cn though numbers have dwindled and our bones creak the louder. 
A blessed and happy Kcw Year to you all. 

(Ed. note: A solicited letter for Class funds in­cluded this unsolicited tribute to Secretary' LOUIS BRUGGNER by President JACK NORTON: *'Bniggner is the exception w^en it comes to a Class Secrctar>-. There is nothing more delightful to him than to sit down at tlie t\-pewriter and spin off a •j'am — for he is always concerned with all of us — and in return he should have the co­operation of all of us. Louie will hate me for this, but I am of the belief — and so arc you — that we have tljc best Sccretarv of Classes." Tlianks, Jack, J. L.) 
1924 
James R. Mcchan 301S. Lafayette Blvd. 
South Bend 10, Ind. 

Fiom the Alumni Office: EDWARD L. KEATING, of Auburn, N.Y., has been reported deceased in the course of the recent Challenge appeal. No confirming details have been received. FRANK KOLLARS, a creative writing instructor at Hunter College in New York, is the author of a mystery book for teen-agers entitled "Prisoner of Lost Island," released recently by Bruce Publishing Company. 
1925 
John P. Hurley 2085 Brookdale Road Toledo 6, Ohio 

Your mail from Notre Dame lias been heavj* tlicse past six months, and U is possible tiiat the letter from your class officers and JIM ARMSTRONG might have escaped your attention so I will *'re­cap" a bit. One of our Classmates *'GIL** SCHAEFER of Detroit, has made a vcr>- generous and stimulating offer to the Class, and of course to the University. Gil has agreed to contribute 520,000 in the three year Challenge for Notre Dame goal, if the Class of 1925 will raise an addi­tional 530,000. That is a Class goal of $10,000 a year for three years. Gil has expressed the hope that the fund so constituted will become a Class of 1925 Loan Fund. Your Class Officers would like to ask the Class of 1925 to begin, now, the building of this Manonal Loan Fund in the name of the Class, so that for the next three years the ^t s can become in addition, a- source of the extra 50% matching and unrestricted gift of the 
Ford Foundation. You can make your pledge in 
your local areas through the regular Foundation 
Committee cliannels. Your gift, unless otherwise 
restricted, will become a part of this class program. 
Thanks to you, Gil Scliaefer, for giving your 
Class the opportunity of haring this wonderful 

Memorial Loan Fund of 1925 and the Unii-ersity 
will get a 50% matcliing "bonus" from the Ford 
Foundau'on. Your President, DON MILLER, feels 
that our class will go well over the objective if 

we really put some effort behind the drive. If you 
haven't given as yet .. . do it today. If you feel 
you can increase your pledge . . . please do, be­
cause I know you have felt that the Class of 1925 
"is just a little bit better" .. . let us prove it 
to the Um'versity and to GIL SCHAEFER. 
It is with a great deal of regret that I Iiave to report the death of HAROLD C. WATSON of 2731 North Hackett Ave., Milwaukee, Wis. Harold, affectionately known as "SEN.ATOR" WATSON in our campus days, died "Sovcmher 14ih. Our deepest s>Tnpathy to Harold's wife and his three bo>'s and I am sure you fellows will add Harold to your list of classmates for whom you are pra>-ing. As you know, an tndiridual Mass will be said for Harold immediately and there is a Mass said cacli month on the campus for all tlic deceased members of the class of 1925. Let us not forget the Mass Fund. 
JOHN TRAYNOR called me a few weeks ago. John is fine and a real loyal '25er. I note from John's stationerj- that he is \'ice President for Mortgage Investment of TIte Mutual life Itisur­ancc Co. of New York. 
BILL BELL called me on his way through Toledo from the S>Tacusc game. Bill's from Roclicster, N.Y., so he \vzs especially happy about the way that game ended. Bill is doing a great job in tlie Rochester area on the Foundation Drive and he did a good job on himself. If others in the class arc as enthusiastic as BiJJ, we will have no problem on the Class of 1925 Loan Fund quota. 
From tlie Alumni Office: Is November the Dallas Council on ^Vorld Affairs was addressed by FRANK J. STARZEL, former Midwestern newsman who has been general manager of Associated Press in New York City since 1948. Frank gave an impassioned speccli on the need for full, fare and factual reporting by the great «irc services to combat a plethora of propaganda, over­simplification and ready-made opinion. To more than 7,000 A.P. outlets he pledged: "Wc will con­tinue to be reporters of the nexvs, and we think there is no higher calling." 
In the same month Bob Seltzer's column in the Cleveland Press was devoted to a little-known but highly important facet of the many-sided career of DON C MILLER, Class President, open field run­ner, coadi, U.S. attorney, Bar Assn. official, senior partner of Miller & Bamctt, and Kennedy candi­date for the federal bench. Don's proudest actiwty is his fivc-ycar presidency of the Divot Diggers, business-professional group anon>-mousIy supporting 5e\-eral charities for orphans and underprivileged children. Besides five daughters and 11 grandchil­dren, Don and Mac have a son, Don, Jr., in his first year at N.D. Sdizcr quotes Miller pcrc on Miller fils: "I'd rather sec liim on the golf or debate team than in football, though he starred at halfback for St. Ignatius High." 
1926 
Frank A. Deltle 1763 Kcsslcr Blvd. South Bend 16, Ind. 

From a few notes made since the September 6tli deadline—Had a ver>* cnjo>*able golf outing with RUDY GOEPFRICH at Olvrapia Fields in Sep­tember. Rudv later sent a letter that he had re­ceived from FATHER HOWARD J. KENNA, 
C.S.C. Father Kcnna is tlie President of the Univer­sity of Portland and had been au-ay on retreat w*hen Rudy stopped at the University on a trip to the coast. 
JOHN PROBST was in town for the funeral of his nephew, son of COL. R. OTTO PROBST, *11. John is with the Wyandotte Chemical Co., Wyan­dotte, Michigan. 
A note from HERB EGGERT —said his son. 

JIM graduated from Notre Dame in '60 and re-^^ 
ceived his master's from N.Y.U. in *61 and is now " 
working for Uncle Sam. 
This fall I stopped at the Auto Specialties Co. 

in St. Joseph, Michigan and had a nice \isit with 
LARRY KRIEGER. 
Had a letter from JOHN RYAN. John said 

that he was in East Lansing for the baptism of his 
daughter's fiftli child and he saw D.\N KELLEY 
in the diurch. 
DENNIS O'NEILL and uife, Dorothy, of Cleve­

land, arc vacationing across the Atlantic They 
have visited Ireland and plan to cross Europe and 
be in Rome for the Christmas season. Their son, 
DENNIS, '41, was married Sept. 9th. 
Have passed on a few more cliccks to ART~ HALEY to swell tlie '26 Mass Fund. Latest bene-^ ficiar>', according to sketchy information, appears-'^ to be MILES J. RYAN of Cleveland. Please pray for Miles while his death is being confirmed. 
From the Alumni Office: Part of a note from RAYMOND W. DURST to-F.ATHER HESBURGH: 
"Tonight, just on the eve of our departure for Rome by air tomorrow to attend the ordination of my nephew, Tliomas G. Doran, on December 20th in St. Peters, I got the thrilling and happy-nc%vs that Tommy will be assisted at his first Mass by none other than F.ATHER EDWARD HESTON, C.S.C., Procurator general. Congregation di Santa. Cnizc, in Rome. 1 know that ^"ou, too, will be happy to hear of this wonderful circumstance. #i) 
"Witii Father Heston's participation in this event­ful Mass, Tommy's ordination out of North Ameri­can College in Vatican City takes on all the more of a Notre Dame background. Tom's dad, BOB­DORAN, '26, will be there uitli his daughter, Grctclien, who was named after her mother, my sister Grctchen Durst. Bob and Gret were mem­bers of our bridal party in 1928. Bob's sisters, the Misses Annette and Romanna, will also foe there, as will my sister, Mrs. Paul Kamschulte, whose son,. PAUL, graduated from N.D. in 1956. In addition, I just know that VINCE McALOON, the *onc man' Notre Dame Club of Rome, will be on the scene. Gosh, if Tommy had only attended N.D. rather than hor^isl" 
June 
8-9-10 
1927 
Clarence J. Ruddy 32 S. River Street Aurora, Illinois 

As i ivas silling down to prepare these notes as one of my last acts of 1961, I received a telephone call convoing the information that PAUL BUTLER had just died. Tliis was a shock to me of course, as it must have been, not only to members of our Class, but to thousands of other persons throughout tlie country. Paul was probably the most illustrious member of the Class, His years of service as Chair­man of the Democratic National Committee brought lustre, not only to himself, but to his University. Commentators have mentioned that he was a con­troversial figure, and he was. Most men in public life vvho forge their way to the top are contro­versial. Paul ncx'cr hesitated to take a definite posi­tion on botli foreign and domestic political subjects. His manner was gentle but firm. He gave his party intelligent and purposeful leadership. His utter­ances were sometimes provocative, but tliey were seldom wrong. He led the party when it was out^->. of poucr, but during tlic years of his cliairman-w) ship, it grew increasingly in strength and in stature. The culmination came when the 1960 Convention, over whicli he presided, nominated tlie candidate who won ilic Presidency a few months later. Cer­tainly Paul Butler dcscr\'es commendation for mold­ing tlie principles which led his party back to power. Members of the opposite political faith, and even members of some factions within his OM'n party, will not agree that he was always right — and perhaps he wasn't. But evcr>'one will admit that he was able, honest, forthright and sincere^ x His friends, and I am sure most of his classmates* ^ 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 
come within this category, believe that in addition 
^i c vvas right most of the time. 
" Within the past few* months other members of our Class have been taken away. O. PAUL BERETZ died on October 4, and BILL COYNE died on October 9. During the same week there­fore, wc lost I%vo respected members. Paul uith his brother Chuck did a lot to enliven Badin Hall during their student years. I had not kept in dose touch with Paul, but know he had a son also named Paul, who was graduated from Xotre Dame in 19G0. 
BILL COYNE w*as probably more familiar to those who get to Notre Dame at more or less regu­lar intcrxuls. For one tiling, after getting his Bachelor of Arts degree in our Class, he remained to take a law degree in 1929. After that he stayed 
^a t Xotre Dame for many years teaching. More recently he was in Government scmce. In late years he had been with the Urban Renewal Ad­ministration in Wasliington. He was vigorous, forceful and personable. I am sure he will be missed by many. 
To pass to more cheerful subjects, I received a newsy letter a few weeks ago from JACK REIDY of Cleveland. He mentions that JOHN BUTLER is now recognized as the leading criminal lawj-er in Cleveland. I ran into John myself at Notre Dame in September. He has a son who will gradu­ate in June. Both Jack and I are sure that John will be with us for our 35th Reunion, even though that will mean two weekends in succession on the Campus for him. 
.\11 of this brings mc to the subject of our 35th 
»Class Reunion, which will be held on June 8, 9, and 10th. The first part of these Notes must surely remind us of the increasing urgency of these op­portunities to get together. I won't belabor the point, but hope you will all attend tliis one if you possibly can* Fortunately our Class President, FRANK MORAN, is right on Uie Campus. He and STEVE RONAY will act as tlie local com­mittee. They have had a lot of experience handling previous reunions, and you can count on them to function officially again. By the time this is in print, you will have received a letter to ascertain vour intentions. I hope the response will be favor-Able. 
From the Alumni Office: One happy item and a few sad ones as tlic Class 
^ f *27 begins the year of the 35th anniversary- re­union. Tlic joyful news was the recent swearing-in of LUTHER M, SAVYGERT of Chesterton, Ind., as judge of the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Chicago, Judge Sw>*gcrt was one of the stars of the federal bench with the U.S. District Court for Northern Indiana. 
Leading the roll of distinguished classmates re­cently deceased was PAUL BUTLER, who died just before the turn of the year. Paul received tributes from President JOHN F. KENNEDY, LL.D. '50, whose election he helped to assure, and scores of national and international figures, for his career as a lawyer and political leader—one of the greatest, 
^and certainly the fightingcsi, of national cliairmen 
^for the Democratic Party. One of the strongest statements of admiration came from the incumbent Republican chairman, REP. WILLIAM MILLER, '35. Classmates will wish to express sympathy and assure prayers to Anne Butler; P.AUL, JR., '58; KEVIN, '61; Brian, still in school, and all the family. 
O. PAUL BERETZ died suddenly in Kansas City last October. Sympathy to Paul's brother, CHUCK BERETZ, also of the Class; to his widow Marthe, and to sons PAUL, '60, and Robert. WILLIA.M 
J. CO\'NE of Che\y Chase, Afd., attorney-advisor in the legal division of the Urban Renewal Ad­ministration, died October 9 in Washington, D.C., after a long illness with llodgkins disease. Bill spent 12 years on the N.D. faculty teaching eco­nomics and law and coaching debating. He held important legal positions with the National Labor Relations Board, Tennessee Valley Authority, Post 
»
Office Dt'partiucnt and other federal agencies. Sym­pathy lo his widow Eleanor and son Michael. There are no details on the reported death of EDW.\RD P. SI^WEX In Galcsburg, III., or that of EDMUND D. C/\LL/\H.\N, other than a note from BILL O'KEEFE that "Cal was killed in an acadent in Chicago on January 24, 1961." Prayers are requested for all. 
Happily again, the report in November on the passing of PROF. FRANK MORAN was ver>* much exaggerated. It was a misreading of a scrib­bled eulogy to PROF. TOM MADDEN, who died 
^videly mourned last fall. There is a similarity in name and department (English) and esteem, but 
reunlonists can rejoice that FRx\NK MORAN is very much alive and ready to participate in the June festinties. 
1928 
Louis F. Buckley 68-10 108th Street Forest Hills 75, N. Y. 

BILL 0*HARA died in Manchester, Connecticut, on June 18, 1961, after a six-week illness. He is survived by his wife, a married daughter and a son who is In college. Bill worked at the time of his dcatli as a financial analyst with the Connecti­cut Power Co. in Weathcrficld, Connecticut. I visited Bill and his family several limes in the past fciv years. He was very jnlercslcd in the Class and had planned to attend our 35-year reunion. Bill had been active in civic affairs including the KIwanb, the Knights of Columbus and Parent Tcaclicr Association. 
MIKE Lr\WLER died suddenly in Chicago on April 22, 1961, from a coronary* occlusion. He Is survived by his wife and three clilldren, one of . whom is a student at De Paul University. Mike was Office Manager with Tavern Liquors and Sup­plies. He formerly ser\'ed as a member of the Illinois Boxing Commission. Mike was a regular attendant at our reunion. 
ST/\NLEY GRINAGER died on September 4, 
1960, in Pomona, California after a long Illness. 
He is sur\*ivcd by his wife and three children. 
BILL JONES and I were pallbearers for BILL COYNE, '27, who died in Washington, D.C. on October 8, 1961 after a long illness. Bill is sur\ivcd by his wife and a son who Is a medical student at 
GEORGE COURY, '28, Florida financier, a frequent donor to Lebanese charities, 
was lately credited with building Mesk Coury School in the Lebanese mountain village of Boxniaya, his birthplace. The school is named for his father, who left Lebanon at the turn of the century to seek his fortune as a peddler in the U.S. His son rose to stock broker from bank messenger, served with the-U.S.- Navy, became the only person of Arab ancestry to join the New York Stock Exchange. George has also negotiated with Lebanese President Faud Chehab for an orphan center to be financed by the Lebanese-American community. 
Mar>-Iand University. Bill was an attorney with the Housing and Home Finance agency at the time of his death. Bill was always interested in the Class of '28 and attended our annual cocktail party a year ago. 
The s^-mpathy ot the class is extended to GEORGE 
KELLEY on the death of his tntc and to JACK 
WINGERTER on the death of his mother. 
Our sixth annual '28 Class cocktail party fol­
lowing the Northwestern game on October 28 was 
a great success. We were particularly pleased to 
welcome the following Classmates who attended 
the cocktail party for the first time: PAUL BRADY, 
JOE BREIG, HENRY DAVIS, JOHN R. MUR­
PHY, DUTCH RIEDER and CLIPPER SMITH. 
Others attending included JIM ALLAN, LOU 
BUCKLEY, ED DEAN, JERRY DE CLERCQ, 
JOE DORAN, BERN GARBER, JOE GRIFFIN, 
JOE HILGER, MIKE HOGAN, GEORGE KELLY, 
BILL KIRWAN, RED LAHEY, JOE LANGTON 
HERB McCABE. LEO McINTYRE, FRANCIS 
.MEYER, JOE MORRISSEY, W. H. MURPHY 
HOWIE PHELAN, DICK QUINLAN, ED RAFT­
ER, JOHN RICKORD, BERNIE SCHUH and 
VINCE WALSH. You will find pictures of the 
party taken by JOE HILGER in this issue. 
BERNIE GARBER and I joined JOHN BREN­XAN, '27, for lunch following the Mass arranged by the Notre Dame Club of New York. John is with American Standard in their international op­erations. John has two sons who were graduated from Notre Dame and two daughters, one of whom is at Duchesne College. I also had lunch with TO.M BOV on his return from sea as Chief En­gineer on tankers of the Humble Oil & Refining Co. Tom gave mc a vcr>- interesting account of his risit to Russia. .At my father-in-law's w-ake in .Mishawaka, I saw DR. .ANDY BOYLE who now has a daughter at St. Mary's, FATHER MARK FITZGERALD, C.S.C., of Notre Dame and BOB GRESSER, who is with the West End Bank in -Mishawaka. ANDY BOYLE mentioned that he had seen TONY BENNING who is with DuPont in Wilmington. 
JOE LANGTON has done a great job in raising funds to finance a promotional program for our 35th reunion in I%3. Joe is Treasurer of the Automotive Wholesalers of Illinois and presided recently at their convention. 
FATHER JLM .McSHANE, S.J., attended the NJ) . Club meeting in Panama while he was acting as Chaplain at the Albrook Air Force Base there. He saw BISHOP .McGRATH, CS.C. and FATHER .MEHLING, CS.C , there. Father Jim also WTote from Casa Curac, El Progreso, Yoro, Honduras, after he had returned to the excellent mission work he is doing there. Drop him a line. 
DR. D.-IN BRADLEY did an excellent job dis­cussing medical ethics on the famous T.V. pro­gram. At Yoiu: Beck and Call, where he was interviewed by Betty Fumess. Your Class Secre­tary was on this program earlier this year. Dan was given a Knight of the Holy Sepulchre and met JIM SHOCKNE5SY, who was being promoted in the Order. Marriage, the Benedictine publica­tion from St. Mcinrad's, carried a picture of Dan on the cover of the June issue antl contained an article by DOUG ROCHE on "Good Old Doc Bradley." Dan mentioned that he had seen JOE KISSLING. Joe is still an attorney with the Grum­man Aircraft Engineering Corp. in Bethpage, N.Y. He has a daughter at Trinity College, another finished there in 1959 and a third in high school. 
BILL GRIFFIN called my attention to an error in tJiis column in the .Aus.-Scpt. issue when he was referred to as being in charge of the Legal Depart­ment of Bethlehem Steel Co. Bill is Chief Patent .Attorney for Bethlehem, where the Patent Depart­ment is distinct from Legal. The head of the Legal Department and Secretary of the Company is B. D. BROCHER, '30. Bill has sons at Hari-ard Law, Yale and Penn State and two more at home. 
F. X. J.AMES O'BRIEN sent xae a newspaper storj- on how GEORGE COURY arranged for the construction of a school, named after George's father, in the little mountain \*illage of Boxmaya. JIM O'BRIEN reminisced about his chance meet­ing during the war with the late JOHN CARROLL in the Philippines, BERNIE CROWLEY and the late VINCE DUCY. Jim would like to hear from DOC CROWLEY. 
I talked to ADRI.AN LOPEZ, who is in the pub­lishing business in New York and to JOE CAIN. Joe has been doing a lot of travelling and met JOE KINNEARY in Dublin and GEORGE FALE­MINO and RALPH GARZA in Mexico. VIC ZIMMERMAN is with the Viking Auto Rentals Corp. at 239 E. 47th Street in New York. BERNIE G.ARBER mentioned the outstanding job LEO Mc-
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 33 
I^^rVRE is doing on the N.D. fund drive in Allcn­
tou-n, Pa. 
BILL D\VYER reported on a get-together at 
LARRY 0*CONNOR'S home after the Purdue 
game attended by JIM ALI.AN, MIKE RICKS, 
JOE HILGER, TOM I^fEDLAND, '30, and BOB 
EGGElhlAN, *29. Botli JLM ALLAN and BILL 
DWYER mentioned they had the pleasure of see­
ing FRANK DONOVAN at the Purdue game. 
RAY MOCK reports that BOB FOGART^' re­
ceived the outstanding a%\-ard at St. Thomas College 
for his service as a faculty member for many ycare. 
I W2S pleased to note in the last Alumnus that 
AUGIE GRAMS was selected to receive the La 
Crosse N.D. Man of the Year Award. 
Your Class President JIM ALLAN and I attended the opening of the McKeown-Phalin CIie\Tolct Inc. on October 28th in Whcaton-Glen Ellyn, Illinois. HOWIE PHALIN and ED McKEOWTC were on hand as was Ed's son who will be directly in charge of the fine new organization. 
BILL KIRWAN visked us recently in New York. 
Bill is still in the furniture business with his son 
in Iowa City, Iowa. His daughter is a hostess on 
Northwestern Airlines. Bill's wife died over a 
year ago. 
JIM ALLAN reports that plans have been made to hold our *28 annual cocktail party next year foUowing the Michigan State game on October 20, I9ffi in 0'Shaughness>' Hall. Please note your calendar accordingly. 
From the Alumni Office: 
It v,-Bs a shock to read of GEORGE W. GRON­GEYER as a student at Princeton until it was noted that he attended a Metropolitan Insurance Co. advanced management program there. 
^VILLIA&f B. JONES now heads a distinguished group in the upper atmosphere of AVashington, D.C. BUI took office in No\'ember as president of the John Carroll Society, a Catholic intellectual honor organization. 
GLENN M. HATCH has been elected \-ice­
prcsident by the directors of Keystone Portland Cement Co. Named in December, he had joined Ke)-5tone last April as an assistant to the president. 
Secretary LOU BUCKLEY, named top Catholic layman of 1961 by N.C.S.A.C., achieved a nc*v kind of prominence when he and New York Mayor Wagner shared the bill with rock'n'rollcrs Brenda Lee and Tina Robin on WABC's "Stay in School" Spectacular and the front pages of the Joumal-AmcHcan. His Gtmments on the need for a high school diploma were also featured by Post columnist Sylvia Porter, a frequent quoter of Buckle>Tsms, and the Long Island Star-Journal. Lou was named a regent of St. Francis College, addressed a dozen groups and had an article on adult education and manpower printed in Adult Leadership. 
1929 
Larry Statidcr Engincermg Bldg. Notre Dame, Indiana 
REV. THEODORE J. MEHLING, C.S.C., '29, Provincial of tJie Indiana Pro\*ince of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross, died November 14 in San­tiago, Chile, following abdominal surgery. Father Mehling had been apparently well and active, mak­ing visitations in Central and South America until his seizure. The Class of '29 has previously ex­pressed its s>-mpathy to his family and repeat here a promise to remember him in our prayers. Father Mehling was present at our 25th Class Reunion; his responsibilities prevented his being with us for our thirtieth. He wns a loyal and informal '29er as well as an illustrious one. His Excellency Bishop Pursley gave the eulogy at Sacred Heart Churcli November 17. 
REV. CHRISTOPHER OTOOLE, '29. Superior General who was at Notre Dame at the time, was celebrant of the Requiem Mass. Father OToole returned to Rome a few days later. 

The Northwestern game brought back a some­what smaller than usual number of '29ers. The post-game get-together In the Engineering Building immediately after the game was privileged to have TRAD HEINLEIN; Helen, his wife; and daughters Naacy, 20. Joan. 15. and Kathy. II, as newcomers. 
CLASS OF 1929 party after last fall's Northwestern game featured scenes like these. 
On left are Mr. and Mrs. Thad Heinlein, Erie, Pa., with daughters Nancy, Joan and Sue. Unique drunk's eye Wew at right superimposes Frank and Mary Hcupel on image of Joe Lenihan, wife Dolores and daughter Sharon. 
Tlicy plan to return. Tliis was their first visit since Thad's graduation. Thad is in business for himself in Erie, Pa. Thauk our good friend FRANCIS MEYER, for the picture which tells more than would a hundred words about the handsome Heinletns. ORSON DAUSMAN and wife Sylvia of Indianapolis especially enjoyed \7siting with the Hcinleins as did the Stauders*. When three E.E.'s get together time stands still. GENE GALDIBINI of Indianapolis has been back for several games. ROCCO PERONE and friends of Cincinnati stopped in before and after the Southern California game. W. D. GILDER, 9219 Timber-side Drive, Houston, Texas, planned to be with us after the Northwestern game after attending the ASM Convention in Detroit. EDWARD FAHEY of Northwestern Bell in St. Paul and NORM Mc-LEOD of Gates Mills. Ohio, each found it neces­sary to call off his proposed v-isit for the same game. Norm is a founder of the new Cleveland Bulldogs Professional Football team. We missed JIM CURRY, one of our regulars. 
Present as usual were JOHN DORGAN, DR. JAMES TOBIN and wife Margaret of Elgin, Illi­nois, DON and Mrs. SCHETTIG, '30, of Ebens­burg. Pa., JOE NASH of Chicago, as well as Mary and FRANK HEUPPEL, whose new address is Philadelphia, Pa. 
FATHER LOUIS THORNTON, C.S.C., who is 
by the way Chaplain of the Notre Dame Club of 
tlie St. Joseph Valley, added his genial presence to 
the get-together, as did our lo>-al vice-president, 
JOE LENIHAN, wife Dolores, and daughter 
Sharon. Sharon is a freshman at St. Mar^-'s. 
JOSEPH O'BRYAN of Hiattville, Kansas, was 
back for the game and reunion. 
Next year the Micliigan State game Is fa\'orcd 
by most '29ers for an sltcr-s:unc reunion. 
Others who planned to see the Northwestern game include: ^VILLARD CROTTY, LOU NIEZER, CLEFE SCHNEIDER, FRED WAGNER and JOHN 

T. BURKE. BILL CRONIN was back for the Purdue game. Bill and wile Janet live in Diablo, California, with their family of Jenifer 17. Peter 13, Timothy 10, and Janet, Jr., age 4. Among those Bill has seen recently are BERNIE ABBOTT, PAUL CUSHING, MARCHIE SWARTZ, FRANK LEAHY and SKIP MADIGAX. 
He attended a Notre Dame Day at the Races and Barbeque at the Concannon Vineyard in Liver­more, California, which is one of the oldest and finest wineries in the state. One of the Concan­non bo>'s is a graduate of Notre Dame. 
HEIUkLU<7 J. OHLIGSCHLAGER, of duPont de Nemours, Louisville (since '40) Is the fond grand­father of Micliael. Lynn and Timothy Hagan. Be­sides daughter Joan (Hagan) he has a son James B., 22, a senior at Bcllarmine College, Louisville, and a daughter Barabra, 21. Ollie claims to have just about as much hair as in '29. He makes no mention of his weight. His address is 3012 Aubert Ave., Louisville 6. Surprise him with a note. 
DR. JOHN VAICHULIS now lives at 10132 South Park Avenue, Chicago, John, your friends Would like to hear from you. The ne\v address of 
O
RAY A. McKEON is 373 East Road, Bristol, Connecticut. 
BOB VOGEL^XDE was on the campus recently interviewing seniors for positions in his firm. 
Sympathy to the widow and son of DR. £D^VARD LYONS, who died last fall in Perkasie, Pa. Ed was a well-known dentist and very active in the Philadelphia N.D. Club. No details have been received on the reported death of THOMAS F. ilURPHY, Fairfield, Conn. 
1930 
Devere Plunkctt 
•) 
O'Shauglinessy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
From the Alumni Office. 

Congratulations to BERNARD D. BROEKER, secretarj- of Bcllileliem Steel Corp. and its prindpai subsidiarj-, Bethlehem Steel Co., for his appoint­ment m November as assistant vice-president of finance and Ian- in addition to his duties as sccre-., tary. A Har%-ard Law School man, he practiced^' pnvately before joining Bethlehem in 1940. He became a director of the company in 1937. 
Erstivhile classmate JOHN I. McNAMAR,\ was just elected president of the recently revived Brooklyn Prep Alumni Association. Those who know John might urge his application for elected membership in the N.D. Alumni Association. He lives at 506 First St., Brooklyn 15, N.Y. 
Sympathy to the widow of law grad CRVRLES 

S. GASS, who died in Beverly Hills last fall after being stricken with cancer during a trip to Europe last spring. Charles was executive vice-president of Stratham Instruments, Inc. A native of Colum­
™ J •"' II^,'."""' =" =* 'P"^'='^' »S"" for the 
FBI duruig V/.\V. II. 
1931 
James T. Doyle 902 Oakton Street Evanston, Illinois 
Last year you have received your September copy^^] 

I) < 
of the ALUMNUS and read some accounts of a 

34-Notre Dame Alumnus, February-Marchj 1962 
highly successful reunion, although attended by a 
^Numerically modest group. Among the long* dis­tance attendants were ED SHEERIN from Long Beach. Calif.; MAURICE GOODEVE, Alberta, Canada; and FRANK BUTORAC, San Dicgo, Calif. To liven things up a bit, FRANCIS HEN­NEBERGER sent the movies taken at our 25th Reunion. These were shown after our class dinner at the Morris Inn. Hcnne expressed his regrets at being unable to attend but a graduation and mar­riage of another son in New Orleans kept him au-ay. JOHN WTIBLER, 125 Clinton Avenue, Elmhurst, Illinois acted as the official photographer of the weekend fcsti\-itics and has several Interesting shots of *3Iers gathered around the refreshment area ol Hoivard Hall. I am sure Jic «'iJl be glad to furnish copies of his pictures to any who write 
Aliim. 
One of my faithful correspondents, JIM Mc-QUAID, received a letter from BILL MAGAR­RALL, who is now living at 1800 Fifth Ave., Yuma, Arizona, where he is tcacliing the fifth grade at St. Francis of Assisi school. While Bill sa>-s he is another "Prof. Hines" of campus fame, as far as professional prowess goes he manages to get along well with his students. His only problem is being short, and the tall ones give him a rough time occasionally. Bill lost his wife in 1952 and has finally settled in Yuma where lie thoroughly enjoys working with "his kids." I telephoned Jim and >faric McQuaid while in Vincenncs in No­vember and both arc enjoying their work at Vin­cenncs Univ. Francis and Vera Hcnncberger were 
^i n Chicago on business and phoned, but wc were unable to get together. They do considerable com­muting between Princeton and New Orleans since their boys went to Loyola of N. O. 
Our congratulations go to our classmate, x\LFRED 

C. STEP.-VN, JR., and his wife, Mar\- Louise, on the announcement of their gift to the University of the Stepan Student Activities Center. Was Al's feeling about Washington Hall a factor in this gift? I met PHIL .\NGSTEN in the loop recently and he sends his best to all. HOW.VRD RANKER, originally from Fremont, Ohio, and a Howard Hallcr, phoned while passing through town. He asked about FRED SWIXT, JOE HUGHES, VAL MARTIN, VINC EICHENL.\UB, VERN KNOX and the BUSTAMENTE BROTHERS from S. A. He is living at 3339 Monticello Blvd., Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio. Among those departing the 
^Chicago area is JOE BLANEY who is now in Mil­waukee, Wise. Another who missed the reunion and sends his greetings is VIXC POX'IC, seen recently. 
BILL BERNING wrote me last .\ugust from Austin, Texas, saying he had a wonderful \Tsit u*ilh EARL BRIEGER who returned to visit his family. Apparently Earl gave Bill a ride in his new Mercedes-Benz sports car which he will long remember. He also sees BERT M.ALONEY from time to time who is now active in the securities business. BilPs address is 708 W. 32nd St., Austin. 
I am temporarily in Los Angeles, California, and 

on the way out my wife and I stopped in Ros­
^vcll, N.M., for a nsit with F. X. MURPHY and 
9hi s family. I had promised him years ago that if 
I ever came near his area I «"ouId be sure to stop. Wc had a wonderful time that evening and his comment that the weather changes cver>' 20 min­utes ^^"05 borne out the next day when we got trapped in mountain snow. My best wishes to all for a happy and holy holiday season and do con­tinue to send ne\%'s for our column. 
From the Alumni Office: Professor LOU BUCKLEY, '28, while addressing the national convention of the Graphic Arts Assn. Executives in Pittsburgh, met a former student WILLIAM B. HABING of Indianapolis. Bill is executive sccretar>' of the Printing Industries of Indiana. Congrats to JOHN E. McINTYRE, former vecp and general manager of South Bend's Sibley Ma­^chine & Foundr>- Corp-, elected president to replace 
J. VOLL, *17, ivJio moves up to board chair­

9S: 
And to AMBROSE M. STOEPLER, named Di­rector of Internal Revenue for Riclimond, Virginia. He was formerly assistant director in Cleveland. Nephew John, '52, son of brother Bob, *28, has a fellowship to the Yale Law School. 
Finally to REV. FRANCIS BE.4UCHESNE THORNTON, long an editor of the Catholic Digest, for his book, "This is the Ro5ar>'," published re­
kCently by Hawthorn Books and article recently Pcxcerpted under the same title in the magazine St. Jude. 
1932 
James K. Collins 3336 Kcnmorc Road Shaker Heights, Ohio 

Fidin the .-\himni Ollice: 
Old sea dog CAPT. BOB LEE sent a picture from Iceland, where he is legal officer at Head­quarters, Iceland Defense Force. N^avy 568, FPO New York. He. visiting fireman CAPT. BILL HA^VKES, '33, and ENS. LARRY SCHNEPF, *61, arc contemplating the formation of an N'.D. Club of Iceland. 
Congratulations to public relations man JOSEPH PETRITZ, now a vice-president of Chicago's Be\'­eridge Organization, Inc. Also to H. CLAY JOHN­SON, a New York insurance exec, who participated in a Republican sweep of New York's Westchester County in la^t fall's elections and was elected the new mayor of Rye City—in spite of an amusing controversy: it seems most of the Johnson home is in Port Chester, witli only a corner in Rye City, so the candidate slept with his head in Rye and feet in Port Chester; his opponent and other Demo­crats tried in vain to convince the voters that this disqualified him to sen'e as a Rye ofticial. 
The office was only rccentlv informed of the death of THOM.AS P. GALBR^\ITH more than a year ago in .Alexandria, Va. SjTnpatliy to his widow and to Tom, Jr., scheduled to graduate in June, 1962, the 30th anntversar)' of his father's gradua­tion. SjTnpathy and pravers also to the widow of Richmond, Ind., druggist CHARLES QUIGLEY, who died last August, and to the surv'i'vors of GEORGE J. BODEN, Merrick, N.Y., whose death was reported but not confirmed. 
1933 
Joseph A. McCabc 2213 Lincoln Evanston, Illinois 

Dear Nineteen Thirtv-ihrec's: Hello again! Well, it was like this . . . Pres. JOHN O'SHAUGH­NESSY got no volunteers for this highly-paid post. I therefore told John I would be happy to dash off a few lines until a successor is squared away. 
One thing that makes it a little easier is the fact that wc received word from the editor to keep our column down to real news notes. These I could Write on my thumbnail! 
However, I have a few names to refresh your mcmor>- of long-ago faces: Saw RED KENNEDY, who is running the "green pastures" for Local Loan in the loop and he told me that ED GLE.\­SON is now an assistant to the Cook County state attorney. 
Speaking of state attorneys, JOHN O'S. re­ports that the assistant state attorney for Will County, one JOSEPH KIRINCICH, whose hand­some he:id at liaJr was the envy of all when we were ofT-campus roommates in law school, attended the Illinois state attornc>*s' annual meeting up here in December. Joe reports that another former roommate and lawyer, DON WISE, also of Joliel (as is Joe) is wiser and liappicr for having left his bachelorhood behind him. Don married the widow of classmate J.\CK FIN'NERAN. New addresses received: BILL DEA, 1701 W. -!3rd, .Apt. 308, Minneapolis, Minn.; JOE KURTH, P.O. Box 209, Edwardsburg, Mich.; SYLVESTER L. RAPIER, 509 W. Third, Dclplios, O.; JOHN E. PETER­SCHMIDT, 42 Ramada Bldg., Tulsa, Olla. 
Wc have further news for vou in the surprise form of a letter. Tliis was from JIM UPRICHARD, whose stationery informs one and all that he is Disbursements Accounting Manager for the Ohio Bell Telephone Company, so pay up your phone bills. 
you Ohioans, and maybe Jim will have more money to disburse and more time to vrrite letters like this real good example: 
"The letterhead will establish my identity in case you have forgotten. The reason for the letter is that the picture gracing the column made you come alive to me and fanned the dying embers of class loyalty. Was it fair of you, thoi^ , to use your 'Dome* picture? 
"Further, I can't see how we can tolerate a change at this juncture in securities. If a sufficient number of ta vow ta write you at least six times a year would you reconsider? After all you steered us through the 15th, 20th and 25th so you can't drop us now. 
"CLEVE CAREY was ordained a secular priest in Los Angeles in April, 1960. He is 3rd assistant at St. Barnabas in Long Beach, and is extremely happy. 
*'DR. (BUD) O'BRIEN is vxry busy delivering babies and playing two handicap golf. ED KIL­LEEN is trying to comer the market on all the parking lots in Cleveland and is also very active in helping Archbishop Hoban run the diocese. 
"TOM ENRIGHT just concluded running a very successtul raffle for the NJ). Qub of Cleveland. ART BECVAR comes to Cleveland from his styling job %nth G.E. in LouisWUe, Ky., several times a year. He is a world traveler attending conventions and keeping up ^vith design trends. JIM BOURKE, the pride of Cleveland's advertising sctj and ROGER BRENNAN, the star of one of our finest law firms, still look as young as they did 28 years ago. JOHN PENOTE is making and selling trenching ma­chines all over the worid. NORM GREENEY is in and out of town so much he is hard to catch. ^Vell that is just a few who come to mind readily. I have a son who is a struggling sophomore and may never become a jaunty junior. Please recon­sider, Joe, and keep your picture up there." 
Incidentally, our esteemed leader did get one suggestion as to a future 33 column space-man. Former president GEORGE ROHRS has suggested as a successor in piloting this craft that the wheel be put in the hands of JACK HOYT, who I believe has made a study of how the column should be run. 
In the meantime, the happiest and best of New Years to all and keep your sights on '63. 
From the Alumni Oifice: 
Congratulations to JULES K. de la VERGNE, former director and Wcc-presidcnt of the Alumni Association, on the December wedding of his daugh­ter Paulette to Frank B. Stewart, Jr. 
1934 
T, Edward Carey 223 Elmwood Rd. Rocky River 16, Oliio 

From the Alumni Office: PROF. CLYDE P. CRAINE was named chairman of the English department at the University of Detroit last fall. A member of the U. of D. English faculty since 1938, Clyde got his master's from Oxford, England, and also attended the U. of Michigan law and graduate schools. He's a jazz fan with a record collection dating back to 1920. ED MANSFIELD, still continent-hopping for Crown Zellerbach out of San Mateo, Calif., re­ported that his wife Rita lost her mother in De­cember. 
1935 
FranUyn Hodirciter 702 Scarlet Dr. Tawsask 4, Maryland 

From the Alumtu Ofiice: 
Few organizations can match the various prov­inces of the Congregation of Holy Cross for non­communication. The oSce is seldom notified of a priest's or religious' change of address or death, but return m ^ from the Holy Cross Fordgn Mjs­sion Seminary in Washington says that BROTHER CORMAC WALSH, CS.a , is deceased. Prayers are requested for Brother Ctormac pending detailed word. 
Sir Winston Churchill, who cdebrated his 87th 
Noire Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 35 
•aj-i^-,;^ •: ^ * 
birthday on Thursday, Tiov. 30, sent birthday greet­ings and good wishes to an Irish-Greek Chicagoan who sltarcd the birthday ^v•ith him . . . the day of the month but not the year. Convinced that all men bom on Nov, 30 like good steaks and cigars, GEORGE DEAfETRIO, o«ncr of Tj-nan's Restaurant and an ardent admirer of Churchill's since his Navy da>-s in World War II, inquired through channels if he could send some prime Chicago steaks to the famous British statesman for their mutual birthday. TIic inquiries were relayed directly to Churchill who took time to send his personal felicitations to Demetrio through his pri­x^atc secretary, Anthony ^lontague Browne, from 28 Hyde Park Gate, London. Declining the offer of the steaks regretfully because '*of the distance and other difhculties," Churcliill said that, in lieu of tliem, he would "accept Mr. Dcmctrio's good wishes and reciprocate them for his 51st birthday," 
GEORGE DEMETRIO, who lives in Evanston, III., is best known to the Class of 1935 as a stu­dent manager of the football team under Coach ELMER LAYDEX. 
A telegram at press time reports tlie death ol FR.ANKLYN HOCHREITER's wUe, Clara Ann. To Hoch and his daughters goes immediate assur­ance of prayers and Masses. 
1936 
Joseph J. \VaJdroii 
70 Black Rock Road 
Yardley, Pennsyh-ania 
From the .Mumni Office: Congratulations to THO.M.-\S J. TRE.-\CY, direc­tor of sales and marketing for the clicmical diW­sion of Merck & Co., who celebrated 25 years with the company last October, including sales, market­ing and purcJiasing managerial jobs in Los .-\ngcles and St. Louis. Back at the Rahway. N.J., head­quarters, Tom lives in Summit with Mrs. T. and five children. JOSEPH I. O'NEILL, JR., Midland, Tex., inde­pendent oil and gas producer, is entitled to a com­paratively re]a.xed 1962 after an extremely strenuous 1961. In a single autumn Joe was named: (1) gen­eral appeal cliairman for Notre Dame's successful $18 million Challenge Drive; (2) vice-president of the Texas Mid-Continent Oil & Gas .Association for the Permian Basin district; and (3) a member of the Sports Illustrated Silver Anniversary- All-America for 1961. Among the 25 men to make the roster were Green Bay Packers Coadi Vince Lombardi and Oklahoma University's Bud Wilkinson, as well as many important business executives, educators, government and military leaders, two surgeons, a congressman and a scientist. 
Tlie u-inncrs in this unique AIJ-.America are selected by ballot among a panel of distinguished judges, which this year included tsiro former N.D. Patriots of the Year, U.S. Attome\- General ROB­ERT F. KENNEDY and former Vice President RICHARD M. NIXON. Sixty colleges and univer­sities had offered candidates for the honor roll of 1961 — cx-griddcrs who played their last collegiate games in 1936. Tlic criteria were the quality of the candidates' records in their professions and their general effectiveness during the inter\-cning 25 years since they played college football. This year Lom­bard! and Wilkinson arc the only ^vinncrs who pursued sports as a profession. 
TTie stories of the 25 winners were told in the December lltli issue of Sports Illustrated. The)* received their trophies — in the shape of silver goal posts — at the National Football Hall of Fame Dinner in New York on December 5th, where President JOHN F. KENNEDY (LL.D. '50) was ke>'note speaker. President Kennedy—then Sena­tor Kennedy — was himself a judge for Sports Illustrated in the Silver .Anniversary* Awards of 1957. The President compared the N.D.-S>Tacuse squeak 
to his own Barrow dcctioa victory — and relascd 
to concede. Joseph O'Neill w*as a lanky left-end and punting specialist for the "Fighting Irish" of 1935 and 1936 under ELMER LAYDEN. Since his graduation &oin the Uni\*erstty's College of Commerce and law sttidy at N.D. and Temple, he has, sa^-s Notre Dame's recommendation, "exemplified to an eminent degree the finest qualities of a Notre Dame man." 
SALVATORE A. BONTEMPO, '32, recently resigned as administrator of the Bureau of Security and Consular Affairs for the U.S. Department of State, his patience exhatisted by months of political wrangling over his appointment. Sal had taken office last July 17 as President Kennedy's choice for State's top security job, with the rank of Assistant Secretarj-; promptly called for getting to i*ork in the race with Russia, and launched a self-study of his department which recommended unbureaucratically that some duties be entrusted to other departments. Sal had spent 30 years as an administrator in New Jersey and the Air Force. He and wife Gloria have t^vo sons, Thomas and Paul. 
Recognition came in 1956 when he was elected President of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, and again in 1957 when he was appointed to the Univcrsit>*'s Board of Lay Tmstees. 
A native of Philadelphia, he began his business career there In 1938 with the E. I. du Pont Com­pany. Since 1948 he has piled up success after success as an independent oil operator in Texas. Before entering the petroleum industry*, Joe was sales manager for California's Van Waters & Rogers and 5er\cd four years (1942-46) as a special agent and supervisor with the Federal Bureau of Investi­gation in San Francisco and Los Angeles. 
Joe is a director of the Texas Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association, the Texas Independent Pro­ducers and Royalty- Owners Association, the Inde­pendent Petroleum Association of America, and sc*-­eral other financial institutions and charitable or­ganizations. 
The O'Neills — Iiis wife is the former Catherine Cummings of Chicago — have a 17-year-oId daughter, Helen Man'c, and three sons; Joseph III, 16; KeWn Patrick, 14; and Midiael Timothy, 9. 
1937 
Joseph P. Quinn P.O. Box 275 Lake Lcnapc .-VndDvcr, New Jersey 
From the Alumni Office: 
While Jerscyites JOE QUINN and JOHN CACK­LEY de\ise fiendish ideas for the Silver Jubilee Reunion thb coming June, we hope you've been 
studying your Retmion Roster, disorpancies and all. 
like EDWARD J. REARDON of Kansas City, Mo-^ In spite of caution and double-checking the wrong ^ address was t^-pcd for Ed — or rather the address 
from the wrong file card. Ed Avrote: "^fy address is shown as 216 Porter Building. This is in error. . . . For your permanent records, my home address is 20 West 69th Street and my office address is Tliomas McGce & Sons, 1002 Walnut Street, Kansas City 6, Mo. 
"Was deeply shocked in reading the members of the Class of '37 who were deceased. I, of course, knew some of them, but am sure saddened by the numbers. 
*'I guess when you have been out of school for twenty-five years you can expect a mortality of this proportion. 
''Will sec you in June. . . ." «;, Tlianks, Ed, for the correction and for one of theW' first reunion reservations. 
About a year ago. Amusement Business magazine was bom from a mating of Billboard and Funspot magazines. It is a leading trade mag of the enter­tainment industr>* in spite of competition from several amateurs in recent months (e.g., Hugh 
•"Pla>'bo>'" Hefner's glossy Show Business Illtistralcd). and one of its secicls is editor JIM McHUGH, former editor of both Funspot and the Billboard Show Nc^vs Division. A journalism grad and former football manager. Jim has kicked all over the U.S. and Canada doing promotion and pub­licity for shoiv busini'ss. both indoor and outdoor, since his early days as an amusement park and carnival hand. For real knowledgeable show busi-_^ ness scoops, tr\' .Amusement Business. ^. 
1938 
Bumie Bauer 
1139 Western Avenue 
South Bend 23, Ind. 
Three letters fioni three continents runneth over my Christmas slocking this year, alleluia, setting a^ ' record for volume, distance and enthusiasm that promises to make the Big Reunion in '63 something to plan for now. 
Per Via Aerea from Beda College, 18 Vialc San Paolo, Rome, Italy comes the following welcome letter: "Dear Swede: This morning at the cliurcli of St. Marcellus, Rome, Bishop Canestri ordained the 'Deacon' of the '38 class to a Deacon of the Churcli! A great day for me, for more reasons than one. The main one, of course, is the prox­imity to tlie priesthood. During the ordaining ceremonies I remembered all my classmates at N.D.; and will for the rest of my days. Notre Dame has played and is playing a big part in my life; I will say my first Mass at the Seminar\' ofA ilie Holy Cross Fathers Iierc in Rome. A perfect ending for my training here. Have been in fair contact with N.D. and class affairs thanks to the Column; and to classmate visitors to Rome, the last being CHUCK SWEENEY —and the town is just getting back to normal. Also, thanks to VINCE McALOON, there is a fine Alumni Club here. Visits to the clan hdqtrs will be one of the things I w*ill miss most when I return to the States for good. Jolict, 111., looks ver\" good, but wonderful memories of my four years in Rome and the N-D. Club will rate among the top. 
"Before returning to Rome last fall I saw the Oklahoma game — first since '57 — and sure enjoyed seeing the team win. Also saw some of my good friends like FATHER CHARLES CVREY, PAT'S brother, and JOHN CAREY, '39; JOHN 'HA' O'CONNOR, BOB WHITECOTTON, Uie pride of New Ross, Ind.; and PAT STILLIS.ANO. Talked^ to CHARLIE CALL-AHAN. $) 
"DR. ED McCABE and wife were visitors to Rome last year, as were TED TREFSER and wife. 
"Tell the Class I will be ordained April 7th, 1962, at the Basilica of St. John Lateran and will say my first Mass at the Notre Dame Seminary April 8th. I'd love to see you all there. Tlic entire Class %vill be remetnbered in a special way at that Mass. I will return to Joliet in July for assign­ment and will especially look fon\'ard to seeing you all at our 25th reunion. That will be a great occasion for me. A \ 
"Another John (J-) Anton is at the University*' this year as a freshman, the son of my brother, 

36 Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 
^)IC K ANTON, *39, and a pretty special guy lo 
,9UncIe Deacon.* Am eager for any and all news about our classmates, also any news on JOE DRU­ECKER of '37 — he was here in April with the Su-ecncys. If I can be of any help to any of the boys (anything ihcy might desire) just let them notify me by mail (address above). So long, and may God bless the Class of 1938 now and al\rays. Sincerely, JACK ANTON." A wonderful letter, and wouldn't it be wonderful if we all could be at Jacli:*s ordination in person? 
REDMAN DUGGAN, "Sage of Sorin Snb.'^ kept a promise he made t%*-o years ago to write from his American Consul General post, Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika (or Zanzibar, as you Kipling fans would like it). Red says there arc few Notre Dame men 

^thcre to write about but plenty of other wild life-
JHikc elephants, hyenas, gorillas, baboons, girafTcs. It takes almost a week to get the N.D football scores, he sa>-s, which at times unfortunately was loo soon last fall. Redman, in charge of the newly estab­lished .\merican Embassy, along ivith another N.D.-er via the hono^ar^• route, His Eminence CARDINAL RUGAMBWA, helped Prince Philip give Tanganyika its independence last Dec. 9th. 
BOB MAZANEC, Cleveland's leading banker, was North America's man of letters sending a re­port of a trip he took west with his family. They stopped in South Bend to sec DON HICKEY and u-ifc .^nn; at Aurora, 111., for a visit with OWEN KANE, and on around the prairie states ending with the Serra Convention in Minneapolis, where 

•^hc
 first man lie met was FRANK O'LAUGHLIN 

•Wrom
 Chicago. Bob said he discovered there were such towns as BOB GARTLAND'S Boone, Iowa, and my old hometown of Good Tliunder, Minne­sota. On an earlier trip to Boston he spent a delightful evening with JOHN R. KELLEY and wUe Roz. "Tlic /at old o«-l is around figlitlng weight — for Iiim." reports Bob. "In Cleveland I see DA\X CONNORS, PETE SHEEHAN, TOM MULLIGAN and FR.VNK PAYNE even.- now and then. Also went to (Prof.) TOM ^L\DDEN'S wake but too early to see any of the school group."' 

SEEN AT THE FOOTBALL SCENE: ED "TEX" HAGGAR brought his sons Jim and Ed to the Syracuse game all the way from Dallas, where Tex is anvtbing but slack in making slacks. JOHN MONOHAN said he saw ED SLACK from Chi­cago at the game. LEN SKOGLUND was sittirn; 


•^v-ith
 his son next to JIM LEr\HY and BILL GIB­


SONS , as were DON FISHER, RAY MEYERS and CHUCK BOROWSKL 
FATHER JOE IL\CE, now at 1754 Grand -Ue. Racine. Wis., sat behind me and called most vf plays (correctly — since we won) at the Southern Cal game. FR.\NK 0'L.VUGHLIN and JIM Cx\RSON, were there. BILL COSTELLO left his RCA job in St. Louis to attend the Northwestern game. WALT. DUNCAN followed his Oklalioma team here, where Callahan said he also saw ED HOG.VN. Callahan also reports seeing JOHN DENTON, Morrisscy sub vocalist with Sammy Kaye every night, who has a dauglilcr a freshman at St. Mary's. 
_ At Purdue, Charley saw JOHN PLOUFF and ^R/\N K CUSHMAN at Michigan State. 
SECO.VD GENERATIO.V: GENE DOL.\N's son came from Long Island to enter N.D. this year, and the son of ARAM JARRETT, the old radio pro now in Narragansett, Rhode Island, Is also a fresli­man. TOM WUKOVIT's son, Tom Jr., is a soplio­morc, and TOM CAVANAUGH's son, Hayes, is a junior. 
Manv 38-crs arc prominent in the present N.D. Foundation drive. PAUL HUGHES heads the General Appeal in Flint, Midi; JOE MOORE in Grand Rapids; BOB WEBSTER In Midland; BOB HOLTZ, our Spotlightcr last month, in Elkhart; and JOHN LYNCH, Ashtabula, Ohio. Then there's TEX HAGGAR in Dallas, JOHN COTTINGHAM in Cincinnati; TO.\i HUGHES in Columbus, Ohio, and JOHN JEHLE in Alton, 111. Chairmen of Special Gifts in their cities are CLEM MC­FARL.ANE, Lansing; CHARLES OSBORN, Seattle; 
HJACK MONTEVERDE in Pittsburgh, and WALT ^DUNCAN in Oklalioma City 
EDDIE KILRAIN has moved from Indianapolis to 1977 Parkwood Dr.* Scotdi Plains, N.J.; JOE CALLAHAN from Long Island to 32 Manfidd St., Merrick, S.Y.; PAUL LOCHER from Washington, D.C., to 140 rue Pcrronet Ncuilly-sur-Selne, France; DR. DAN MONAGHAN (Lt. Col.) from Indiana­polis to 1201 So. Scott No. 730, Arlington 4, Va.; ART MAEHLER from Cupertino to 1271 Oasis Dr., Escondito. Calif.; PHIL KIRCH from Radne, ^Vis., 
to 817 11th St., Santa Monica, Calif.; JOHN FOLEY 
• 'from Watcrtown, S.D., to 1415 Wilmar .\\-c., Wilmar, MHn. 
REUNION AT KEFLAVIK, Iceland, be­tween Capt. Bill Hawkcs, '33, (left) of the Bureau of Naval Weapons, accom­panying the Inspector General on a tour of North Atlantic Installations, and Capt. Bob Lee, '32, staff legal officer at Head­quarters, Island Defense Force. 
(Na\-y photo) 

From the Alumni Office: 
DR. FIRMIN J. KRIEGER, who got his Ph.D. in Physics with the Class and wrote "Behind the Sputniks" (published by Public Affairs Press, Wash­ington, D.C., in 1958). represented the Ranci Corp. in a panel on "TTie USSR and US Space Programs" with James Doolittle, Wemhcr von Braun, etc., at the American Rocket Societv meetings In October. 
FR.\NCIS H. M.\Y, JR., of Greenwich, Conn., spotlighted in 1960 as assistant vice-president for finance at Johns-Manvilie Corp.. was elected vice-president for finance and a director of the company, effective Januar\' 1. 
REV. THEODORE HESBUUGH, C.S.C., wrote a supplementary" note to last year's Civil Rights Commission report which was widely printed and editorially applauded. An example is the New York Times editorial, "A Credo for xXmcrica," which concluded: "Father Hesburgh has done more than write a footnote lo another Government report. He has pointed a glowing road toward human better­ment and decency." 
1939 
James N. Motschall 
Singer-Motschall Crp. 
10090 West Chicago 
Detroit 4, Michigan 

GEORGE M. O'NEILL, JR., is the owner of the Pepsi-Cola Bottling Franchise in Westdicster City, N.Y., where he lives with his wife Beatrice and five children, Susan, Mike, John, Jane and Ann. Daughter Susan is a freshman at St. Mary's. George would like to hear from ED BEINOR. 
JOHN F. PLANALP lives in Des Moines, Io«-a, where he Is executive secretary of the Iowa Turkey Federation. His unfc Mar>- Jane and he have two boys, J. Robert and John E. The older of the two boys, now 12 years old, Is called Bob Planalp (both first and last names spell forward and backward). 
FRANK R. PFAFF is an engineer at Cranford, New Jersey, where he lives with his wife and two sons. One son was enrolled at Notre Dame last fall. Frank would like to hear from BOB GALLAGHER and BOB TUSON. 
Notre 

JOHN P. SULLIVAN U an attorney in St, Louis. Mo. ICs mfe Lucy and he have three sons, Loa 16. Dave 10, Craig 8, and one daughter DtHina 13. John wishes we could have a yearly class reunion. He would like to hear from his debtors, old clients, new dients, JACK GRIFFIN, VAL 0*FARR£L, The Walgrcen's Small Coke Lca^e, Brother Boat­house, Brother Goof. ROD TROESDALE and FRANK TULLEV. 
CHARLES R. RILEY writes to us from Richmond, Virginia, where he is a physidan. His wife and he arc the proud parents of nine cJiIIdren, five girls and four boys. 
ANDY FELKER is manufacturer and distributor of sted products in Marshfield, Wis., where he lives with wife Rita and two daughters, Barbara and Susan. Andy tells us that last time (1954) he was on campus he u*as planning on ''showing ofT' the place in grand style but spent most of the time "Xecllng" his way around because of the many new buildings, which change the general Wew of the campus. Andy wants to commend the staff and all the Class Secretaries for their contributions to this publication. He would like to hear from HUGO HILDEBRANDT. MIKE CLOUSE, HARRY SCHROEDER, FRED SISK. BILL AHERN, BERNIE FEENEY, AL FELTS. He adds that his old roomie DICK UMHOEFER can be reached in Plain, Wis., where he is a Shell Oil Co. jobber. 
JA.MES A. CLIFFORD is credit sales manager of Sears, Roebuck and Co. in Tucson, Arizona, where he lives with wife Margaret and daughters Mar>-. Margaret, Ann, and Ncita. James, I sure hope you can make It back for our 25th. 
THOMAS R. HOGAN wrote to me from New-York City, where he Is a certified public accountant with the firm of Haskins & Sells. His wife and he have three sons and two daughters. 
LAWRENCE K. THOMPSON, JR. (LARRY), is property manager In Memphis, Tenn., where he lives with his ^vife Ellen and eight children, Law­rence K. Ill, Nelsc R. II, Luden M. II, John S., Martin F.. Ellen G., ^Villiam R.. and Thomas J. Thompson. 2^o grandchildren as yet. 
STANLEY R. SHEERAN is manager for chemicals development In the Electro Chemicals Dept. of the Du Pont Co. Stanley i^Totc to me from Wilmington. Del., ^vhere he lives with wife Eileen, his mother, and daughters Nancy 15, Kathleen 13, and Patricia £. 
ERWIN J. >VEILER Is In the life insurance busi­ness. "Colonel'* writes to me from Louisville, Ky. Wife Martha .Ann and he have three daughters. Sr. Martha Ann, O.S.U.. Janice and Meredith Ann. and a son, Envln John. Erwin would like to hear from EDWARD PALANK, STANLEY WEIGEL, CRARLES YEAGER, ART ^VOODS, and many others •— too numerous to list. Er^vin was formerly a vice-pres., secretary and treasurer of a Notre Dame Club in his x-idnity. 
JOHN O. SCHULZE Is an engineer, USAF. Wright-Patterson AFB, Wright Air Development Div. John is single and resides in Dayton, Ohio. 
GERARD A. SCHWARTZEL, wife Betty and four children live In Louisville, Ky. John Is in the sales dept. of the Tension En\'eIope Corp. of St. Louis, Mo. John writes that the 20th Reunion was most enjoyable and is looking for^vard to the 2ath. 
ALPHONSE AL RESPONDEK of Cucro, Texas, passed avv-ay March 6, 1961. He contracted virus pneumonia, followed by sleeping sickness and a lot of complications. "AI" leaves a wife Margaret whom he married in Sydney, Australia, and four sons. Thomas 13, James 7, John 4, Anthony 3. Al was radio engineer and owner-manager of Radio Station KCFH in Cucro. 
EDWARD M. SADOWSKI Is production supt. in Somerville, N.Y. His ^%-ife Catherine and he have five children, John Leon, Michael E., Anne E., Mary Jo, and Edward M., Jr. Edward would like to hear from PAUL DUCHAR.ME and ED O'CONNELL. 
CHARLES (CHICK) J. ENGLEHART writes to me from Sioux City, loua, where he lives with his wife, Julie, and two sons, Charles T., who attends John Carroll University and William P. and one daughter. Charles would like to hear from TOM GILLESPIE, Poet. 
BOB HUETHER is an engineer with the Norair Division, Nothrop Corp. Bob, his wife Eleanor, daughter Carolyn, 16, and son John, 11, reside in La Crescenta, Ca]. Bob had the pleasure of seeing HANK ROHL recently when Hank was In La Cresccnta on business. Bob would like HARVEY FOSTER to know that he met VINCE HUGHES thru Toastmasten 
CHESTER P. SADOWSKI U in the real estate development business in Marathon Shores, Florida (Southernmost alumnus in continental U.S.) where he lives with his wife, Florance, and dilldren Mary, Bob, Peggy. Tommy, James and Virginia (largest 
Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 
family in the Keys). Chester belongs to the Miami Notre Dame Club, which is very active. He is Vice-President of the Realtors Association. 
BERNARD F. L£ ROY of Afenasha, Wisconsin, is guidance director at Menasha High School. His u*ife Helen and he have two sons, Mike and Paul. and two daughters, Mary and Margrct. Bernard writes that after coaching for 21 years at such athletics as football, track and baseball at x-arious periods of his tentu^, he i^'as able to transfer to the present pesttion. Now he can sit in the stands and enjoy watching hb oldest son, Mike, play the kc\-­stone bag on the school baseball team. After 20 years, wife Helen has received her wish that tlic LeRoy six can sit at the table and have a mc-al together. 
DARREL K. MOORE, JR., xmtes to me from Mtshawaka, Ind., where he resides with his \%-Ifc Mary Alice, daughter Mary Ann, 18, and son Timothy Joseph, 13. "Mike" is a research & development rubber chemist, also reg. pharmacbt in Indiana. He would like to hear from AL KIEFER, 
JOE MCDONALD, JR., and HENRY JOHANT­GEN. 
\'1NCE DOLIARD is district sales manager in Western N.Y. for the Genesee Brewing Co. of Rochester, N.Y., where he lives with his wife and two bo>-3, ages 12 and 14, and two girls, 11 and 8. Vince belongs to the Rochester Alumni Club. He writes that he has seen FRANK GAGLIONE while in Buffalo and they had some good laughs. 
May I be the last to wish you a very Happy Prosperous 1962. Each year we should make a list of good intentions. I hope on the top of yours it will read, *'Scnd copy promptly to our good old Class Secretary" .. . so he can continue to make our Class notes newsy. 
From tlie Alumni Office: 
The death last October of THO.M.AS L. KEN­NEDY, JR., of Hazleton, Pa., head of the legal department for the anthracite districts of U.M.W.A.. and the only son of the United Mine Workers' picsidcnt, was mourned widely in Pennsylvania and union papers. Editorials praised his record as a lawyer and na\-al officer in World War II, and particularly his ser\-ice with a dozen civic and welfare organizations. S>*mpathy to Iiis widow Catlicrine and his three sons, Thomas III, William and James. 
Congratulations to JOHN J. DUNPHY, named xice-prcsidcnt and director of the institutional sales department of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, Inc., member of the New York Stock Exchange. John, a Harx-ard M.B.A., had managed llie research department of the investment firm of Cyrus J. Lawrence & Sons. 
1940 
James G. BroAvn 144 East 44tii Street New York, N. Y. 
From the Alumni Office: 
We are indebted to the HON. MALCOLM E. TWOMBLEY, *32, judge of the Municipal Court, of Mount Clemens, Mich., for a Detroit Free Press article on a colorful fellow townsman, J.A.MES CAREW DANER, former assistant prosecutor and 
W.W. II turret gunner in the Pacific, now a trial law>*er in the Perry Mason tradition. Jim, at the time of the profile, had compiled a courtroom record of 119 acquittals and one con\iction, in fact, from 1946 to 1954 he defended clients in 68 consecutive criminal jury trials before he heard the ^vords "gtiilty as charged" from the lips of a jury fore­man, and it was the last time. The record has won him the title of "the poor man's Clarence Darrow." 
Jim was chosen by the Michigan Bar .•\ssn. as principal speaker at a recent annual convention and was commissioned to write an article on cross examination in the State Bar Journal. Now senior partner of Daner, Freeman & McKenrie, he is handling all the work inddent to an $8 million urban renewal project in the area. 
J. E. WILSON was named general sales manager of Erie Fotmdry Co. in Erie, Pa., last fall. A vet­eran of 20 years in heavy machiuery sales, he fonner­ly sold locomotives for General Electric, and is now responsible for all sales of drop hammers, hea\-y presses and other forging equipment for Erie. 
Congratulations to Commander JOHN A. Mc-INTYRE, USN, on his recent Air Force Commen­dation for outstanding service in ^ r defense. John and his wife Annette live in Providence, R.I. 
CMDR. JOHN A. McEVTYRE, '40, USN, 
(left) was presented the Air Force Com­mendation Medal last fall by Vice Admiral Riley, deputy Chief of Naval Operations, for outstanding ser%*icc as operations officer of the New* York Air Defense Sector. (Official U.S. Navy photo) 
.•\ recent report on the death of EDW.ARD GEORGE ME.\NEY in Portland, Ore., has not been confirmed. Please notify the Alumni Office of any details. 
1941 
James F. Spdlman 7 East 42nd Street Nc«- York 17, N. V. 
Men of *41! ! ! Your secretary has now been promoted to *'edilor." Yep, yours truly has to edit tliis gossip column and keep it to a minimum. This drastic step is being carried out because of some plan to publish the ALUMNUS more often. I guess that means small reports more often. Tliat's all I need to convince me to join the foreign legion. Anj^vay, ^ve shall comply, reluctantly. 
JOHN COPPINGER, at long last, writes from General Electric Co., 13130 North Black Canyon Highway, Phoenix, Arizona. Those reunion items in the last ALUMNUS really got to him. Glad it did, JC. And many thanks for your most welcome letter. John, a vet of both Army and Air Force, spent 5 years in the service. Shot down somewhere in Europe and was a PW for a year and a half. After the war, spent some time as a free-lance writer for radio and TV; got his M.A. and Ph.D. at Catholic Univ., and Joined Johns Hopkins Univ. Taught at Catholic Univ. and Mar>-Iand U., did some work in ps>-chological warfare, had a book published, titled "Operations Research for Man­agement," Johns Hopkins Press, w*hich has been translated into Frencli and published in Etu'ope. Joined GE, left the company and again rejoined same in Marketing Dc\'eIopment field. Married Marie Louise Annette Nelson in 1947; had VERN WrrOWSKI as best man; and has five children. Says to count on him for '66. With pleasure, sin 
DONALD C. TIEDE.MANN, 159 Wilmot Road, Scarsdale, N.Y., has been named assistant general counsel vnth the New York Life Insurance Com­pany. Don had been counsel since 1938. Our very best wishes to you, counselor. He is a graduate of the Har\*ard Graduate School of Business Ad­ministration and the HarvTird Law School. (How did JFK miss him!?!). Has been a member of the Board of Education of Eastchester for the past 11 years; also a member of the Board of Trustees of the Public Health Nursing Organization of the same town. Don and his lovely wife, Jean, have four dlul­dren. You of the Glee Club culture \vill remember him as a warbler of some note. As a matter of fact, when the Glee Club sang at Stepinac High School last month, Don ^\'as there with bells on. 
The concert was excellent, as all who attended—, will agree. W 
JOHN O'LOUGHLIN was in town cither in November or October, called my office, didn't reach me, left no number, and as a result I missed seeing him. Please, alumni, leave a telephone number so I can call back. My office is at your service when­ever you can make the big town. As for you, Mr. O'Loughlln, your dues is double!! 
Well, classmates, this is all I can edit for this trip. Some of vou latecomers send me some data like JOHN COPPINGER. Everybody likes to read of the other guy. So, give please. 
I hope you all had a most holy and healthful Christmas and New Year. 
From the Alumni Office: W'­Mr. and Mre. JEROME RY.AN and the eleven little Ryans look well and happy in their annual family portrait Christmas card. Jcrr>- and family live in Hamilton, O. 
W. R. HEN'NESSEY has been appointed Western di\4sion sales manager for West Virginia's Long-Airdox Co. Headquartered in Chicago, he's respon­sible for all mining equipment sales operation west of the Mississippi and Ohio plus Western Ken­tucky, including offices in Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Ulali, Kentucky, Colorado, New Mexico and Wis­consin. Since air scr\'ice as a major in W.W. II he has managed sales for the former Airdox and Cardox companies. TIic Hennessey's live in Chicago %vith two sons and two daughters. ^ 
Minneapolis' Imperial Financial Services has MI-" CH.AEL J. (MIKE) KEEGAN in securities sales. With 10 years experience in the investment business, Mike is active in N.D. Club, Legion and C. of C. affairs In Riclifield and Minneapolis, Minn., and coaclies Little League baseball and midget football. Mike and Luclla have four cliildren: Michael, 12; Marda, 10; Sharon, 7; and Catho'", 2. 
Tlicrc arc no details in a recent report that RICHARD A. CLE.MENS died last fall in Plain­field, N.J. 
1942 
William M. Hickey 3333 West 47th Place Chicago 32, Illinois 
Have a note from MIKE CARR of the Rytex Co. of Indianapolis, who travels the Midwest and sees some of our classmates. He recently \isited ED HACKETT at his new lake home at Pomiac, Michigan. In a recent visit to Toledo, Ohio, he counted and verified that DON MARTIN has eleven wonderful cliildrcn, but he believes that FRAN QUINN is the champion of our class with No. 13 expected any day now. Incidentally, to show you w*c are getting old, Fran's son is now a freshman at Notre Dame. The N.D. Club of Indianapolis had their annual Communion break­fast and members of our class who attended were MIKE CARR, FRANK FOX, PAUL DEERY, and FRAN QUINN. Mike is already talking up our Retmion in June, and reports CHARLES LOHR advises that he is coming from Dallas and DON^x, FIGEL is planning to attend from his new town*/' of Davenport. GENE SCHUKL\CHER also told Mike he is planning to attend. This is good news. 
T. F. BANIGAN. JR., now lives at 4652 Mt. Put-man Court, San Diego 17, California. Having lived in northern California, he finds the life in San Diego wonderiul. Tom is now with the Ad­vanced Products Department of General Dynamics Corp. as head of Chemical Market Development, and he finds the work the best he bas had in his chemistry experience. Tom will be traveling nation­ally for this company. He puts out the weIcomeA\ mat for any classmates who visit San Diego, and ^ inasmuch as he is traveling nationally, you can drop 

38 Notre Dame Alumnus^ FebruoTy-Marchj 1962 
* him a note and he may be able to visit with some jPof us on his trips. 
The October Issue of Indiana Business and Indus­try featured an article on JIM PURCELL, ^vho has been elected Vice President of Public Relations for N'orthern Indiana Public Service Co. In making the announcement, the Chairman and President of the company commented "The Board's action Is in recognition of PurcelPs outstanding achievement in guiding the many phases of NIPSCO's public relations and area development program. Mr. Pur­cell's professional approach to this important ac­tivity in our company is a credit to NIPSCO, the public relations profession, and to the nation's utility industry-." 
— From the Alumni Oflice: 
•^ FRANK J. LAVELLE is now marketing manager of Spcrry Microutive Electronics Company in Cleanrater, Fla. With parent Sperr>- Rand since graduation when he started with Spcrr>- Gyroscope, Long Island, N.Y., Frank has been assistant man­ager since 1958 and now directs all marketing, customer, sales, researcli and advertising activities. 
Return mail reports grad school classmate REV. THOMAS FRANCIS MAHER deceased in Pclhara Manor, N.Y. The report has not been confirmed. 
Special Bulletin; In Januar>* the Family Life Burcau-NCWC named the second annual National Catholic Family of the Year, and the model family turned out to be FRANK E. 0*DO\VD, JR., his wife Margaret (nee Dcmpscy of Oak Park) and 
•jl
their eight children in Wilmette, 111. Frank and 

•^Pegg>'
 have been active in the Chicago area Cana and Christian Family Movements and have ad­dressed the Notre Dame marriage institute. Frank, as most classmates know, was a much decorated submarine officer in W.W. II and followed his late father as an executive of Chicago's Hines Lumber Co. We hope we can get the widely distributed picture of the caroling O'Dowds for a future issue. 


1943 
Jack Wiggins 3125 Briggs Avenue La Crescenta, Calif. 
From the Alumni Office: 
JOHN H. MORRISON, JR., is now manager of field sales development for plastic films, Visking Co. division of Union Carbide. Now investigating mar­kets and programs for polyethylene film, John has been with Visking since 1950. Married and the father of three, he now lives in Des I'laiiies, III. 
Return mail lists JOHN PATRICK GROG.VN 
jof Coral Gables, FIa„ and HARMON NICHOL^\S 
"SPIN A of Chicago Heights, III., as deceased. 
Congratulations to JOHN McHALE named presi­dent as well as general manager of the Milwaukee Braves last fall and now the youngest president in the major leagues. 
1944 
George Bariscillo, Jr. 
416 Burlington Ave. 
Bradley Beach, N.J. 
It was good to hear from FRANK VlGNOLr\ (901 Park Drive, Melrose Park, Illinois) and to keep abreast of his activities in groups in the Chi­cago area interested in informing and educating the public and the military on the doctrine and phi­losophy of International Communism. Frank has been active in programing and setting up Speakers Bureaus, re-examining principles of our American Heritage, and at present is working on the estab­lishment of sucli bureaus within each Notre Dame 

•Alumni Club. We examined his recent brochure to Club Presidents whicli included sample outlines for such programs, lecture topics and related ma­terial. We wish Frank much success in his en­deavor and suggest that any alumnus interested in further details of the program, sample outlines, etc, should contact Frank. He also passes along the following personal notes . . . JIM PLATT had his ninth athlete recently, six girls and three bo>-s in II years, which is some sort of record. GENE PILA^V5KI is also busy populating the Chicago area. Flatt is an attorne>--engineer for the City of Chicago, examining contracts and construction for ihe new expansion of Chicago's O'Harc Airport. Also, VIgnoIa reports a recent meeting with WALLY ROGERS and "BLACK JOHN" MURPHY, the conversation covering mostly the kids and Little League. 
BILL TALBOT sent his final bacliclor report in September and on November 4th, 1961, entered wedded bliss at Church of St. Ignatius Loyola in New York City. The bride is the former Marilyn Pagan and the newlpvcds Itavc set up housekeeping at 440 E. 81st Street, New York. 
Good to hear from TOM NOLAN (2740 N.E. 8th Street, Pompano Bead), Florida) reporting on the Foundation Rally at the Palm Aire Country* Club in Ft. Lauderdale. In the golf tournament he was paired with Dx\N DOWNEY, but no final scores were submitted. Tom has been liring in Florida for seven years with his wife, Dorothy, and five children. He is engaged in the real estate busi­ness and he has just opened his own broker's office in the fast-growing town of Boca Raton. 
S>Tnpathy of the Class is extended lo our eastern Vice President, BILL WALDRON, on the loss of his mother this past October. Bill reports that JACK WHITLEY was at his mother's Mass and that Jack is no longer with W. R. Grace, having switched to Amcracc in New York City last June, and still travelling as much as ever but now mostly in the States. Bill further reports making the Duke game and was sitting near JIM CROWLEY and FILVNK STUMPF. 
It \%-as good to see DEAN PEDTKE and the 1961 edition of the N.D. GIcc Club in a recent performance at nearby Rumson, New Jersey. Those of our Class who were privileged to be members of the Club will be happy to Icarn that the cur­rent edition is continuing in the fine tradition of preceding aggregations. 
The recent copy of the Perini Nexvs crossed our 
GEORGE A. SCHREIBER, '41 Modon by Company Seconded by Burglary 
Any doubts that may have lingered about George "Skip" Schreiber's "arrival" after his election as executive vice-president of Albu­querque's Public Service Company of New 
desk the other day and Class Prexy, JOHN LYNCH, is responsible for editing the piAIication. 
A revamped deadline schedule Is being worked out by the Alumnus Editor, which sho^d result in a greater frequency of issues. This means if '44 Class News is to appear each time the maganne goes to press, your Secretary will be in constant need for column news. Please help! 
From the Alutniu Ofike: 
EARL ENGLERT was elected %w:e-president la charge of foreign sales for Catalysts and Chmucals Inc. at the annual board meeting In December. Originally with Monsanto and Girdler, he has been manlier of foreign sales since 1957. Earl will direct all sales in Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America from his Louisville office. DR. JOSEPH 
B. FARRELL has joined the Manhattan College Faculty in N.Y.C. as an assbtant professor of chemical engineering after five years as top chemi­cal engineer for A.^LF. In Sprlngdale, Conn. Joe has degrees from M.I.T. and Cornell, formerly taught at N.D. Last fall Humble Oil appointed JOHN W. McKENNA as product manager of the supply and transportation dept. for the Southeast region. John, former head of the petroleum tech­nical services division at the Bayway Refinery, \vlll locate in New Orleans, La. He Joined Esso In 1947 after getting an M.S. at Louisville and has had various jobs in engineering management. John and wife Gloria have four children. 
1945 
Frank M. T.inrhah 29 Burr Drive Dalton, Massachusetts 
This deadline came at the most inopportune time, December 15th — Christmas cards, shopping and our anxiously awaiting the cards from our 
Mexico were dispelled recently when his 
wife announced the theft of her jewelry. 
Thus the Schreibers joined an exclusive 
"royalty" usually found in New York, Holly­
wood and Europe. 
George Schrcibcr was bom in Elwood City, Pennsylvania, but within a few years after his birth his family moved to .Albu­querque, where he attended elementary and high school. Skip attended the University of New Mexico in .•\lbuquerque in 1936 and 1937 before entering Notre Dame in 1938. Graduated with an i\.B. in economics, he also attended the Harvard Business School and, during World War II, the U.S. Navy Supply Corps School. 
He saw military service with the Navy's amphibious force in the North African and Italian campaigns and was discharged with the rank of lieutenant commander. He served with the U. S. Navy from April 1942, until January 1946. 
Skip joined the Public Service Company of New Mexico in 1949, when his first job was connected with the establishment of a purchasing department. Since then he has held positions as dealer-coordinator, Albu­querque division manager, Albuquerque di­vision vice-president, administrative vice-president and his present position, execu­tive vice president, to which he was elected by the Board of Directors in early 1959. 
He and the former Mary Cook of Prince­ton, New Jersey, were married in 1944. They and their three children, Peter F., Mary T., and George A., Jr., reside at 903 Loma Linda Place, S. E., Albuquerque. 


Notrt: Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 39 
THE SMILING FACES shown above indicate the pleasant atmosphere of the very successful second annual Class of 1958 after-game reunion, held in the Hotel Hoffman on October 28, following the Northwestern game. Class Secretary Art Roule 
has announced plans to continue this well-attended event. 
classmates to pass along their news. Here goes wth u'liat u'c have: 
One of the former **head waiters" in the caf checked In from France, "GIL" GILLESPIE. "Gil" h now a It. colonel in the Air Force and Has spent the last four Christmases in France. He and his wife. Rusty, Iiavc toured extensively through Europe and have only one major area yet to sec. ScandinaWa. This past summer ihe>' toured Italy and had an audience with Pope John. Gil will be reluming to the States and Walter Reed Hospital in July for about a years tour and a bit of refresh­ing in internal medicine. He hoped to see many of the old gang at the Nav\- game in Philly and has assured us that he plans to make our 20th in '65. 
RUDY ANDERSON reports in from Merck &. 

Co. where he Is serving as associate patent counsel. 
He is delighted to be back in the counselor area 
after being In sales management witli Johnson & 
Johnson. Tlie fringe benefits are good too — a 
couple trips to Europe and one to Japan. 
Rudy's brother-in-law and fellow classmate, DAN 

0*DONNELL, made an outstanding, although un­
successful, bid for state senator for Mercer Count>% 
New Jerse>-. Rudy reports that BILL MOORE 
keeps busy as \ice-president for sales of Researcli 
— Cottrcll. TOM MULHEARD has recently been named manager of a super dupcr Gimbels in the new shopping center in North Jcrse>-. Congrats, Tom! In checking the change of addresses of our class­mates that irome in from school, wc sec where BILL WADDINGTON is now an Easterner, having movTd to Summit, New Jersey. He has been trans­ferred to New York by Chain Store Age. Bill is a publisher of one of their trade journals. Wel­come to God*s country. Bill! JOE HAGGAR reports in from Big D, where he is keeping busy at the Haggar Slacks Co. as V.P.. is quite enthused with tlic N.D. Challenge Program and states **we arc going to do our best to uphold our reputation" In the challenge tlie Dallas alumni have given to tlie New York bo>*s. Our illustiious class president, JIM RETTER, dropped us a line and also a phone call to advise us of the arrival of "the sixth" at the Retter home. Congrats, Pres. & Flo. Jim Is starting on his annual sojourn recruiting chemists and clicmlcal cne^eers from the colleges in New England for Union Carbide. He hopes to see RAY BADDOUR at M.LT. on this tour. He recently ran Into BROCK LYNCH, who Is still a bachelor and looks like a college senior. That must be the answer, Jim. A short note from the "land of sunshine," Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, reports that BILL FANIZZI has been in tlie practice of pediatrics there for five years. Bill and his wife, Lucy, are ejecting dieir second child around Christmas. LUQ* is the sister of JOHN BLACKWOOD, '52. Tlie Fanlzzi's would like to hear from any of the '45ei3 when they are in the Ft. Lauderdale area. The busy banister and former Green Banner 
reporter, JOHN POWER, checks In from the Windy City and is anxious to hear from JOE SULLIVAN, BILL RAWLS, JOHN DOCKUXILER, JOE Mc-INTYRE, ED MAHONEY, JIM "DIPPER" EVANS and DICK MILLER. We arc too, John. John and all our fJassmatcs were sorry to learn of FATHER MIKE O'CONNOR'S untimely death. John sees GENE AUSTIN, JI.M M.^NGAN and SAM .\LONZI around Chicago. 
I hope I will not be sued by John and his former 

Banner associate and also a member of the Bar, 
HARRY WALTERS, for reprinting one of their 
"choice" columns to send out with the Christmas 
message. 
.As for being *45 secrctarv-, many of the hoi's from old St. Ed's are checking in now and then and commenting on my undernourished look. The last was GEORGE "THE BE.AK" KEEGAN. George comes in with a good point, one brought up many times by AL LESSlEZ, that to keep up with fellow classmates of our time It requires reading about classes over a six-year period. George would like to sec a reunion for all the fellows that started In '42. **Thc Beak" is product manager for a Wcst­inghousc International Company In New York. This is the export division and George has responsibility for television, radio, phonograph, and stereo for v\-orId markets. Tlie Kcegan's have three clilldren, a daughter, 7, and two boys, 4 and I. George lives a short distance from GENE DE.AN, "The Genial One." Gene is with American C^-anamid in their labor relations department, and spends quite a bit of time on the road. George Is w*on­dcring if BIG BILL MURRAY Is as strong and shiftv as he was in the scrimmages behind St. Ed's.' 
ERNIE RAUSCHER also lives In Upper Mont­clalr with Kccgan and Dean. Emic Is sales man­ager for American Colorti-pc, Clifton, New Jersey* and it is reported he drives a Lincoln a half block long and half as wide. 
"The Soringfield Rifle," .ANGELO BERTELLI, KEEGAN, DEAN and LEO COSTELLO were instrumental in the Frank Tripucka Day at the Polo Grounds when the Denver Broncos played the Titans. Leo Is a vice president of a savings and loan company In Paterson, New Jersey. 
Another listing of dues paying classmates next Issue. If you haven't sent your $5.00 in yet, how about doing It now? 
From the Alumni OfHce: DR. OWEN W. DOYLE of Greensboro, N.C., was elected president of the North Carolina Radio­logical Society last fall. Owen got his M.D. at Yale Medical School, did his restdenc>* In radiology at tlie University of Michigan, and is now associate professor of radiolog>- at Duke besides being one of the leading radiologists in North Carolina. FRANK R. BEAUDINE Is now executive \ice­
presldent of Indiana General Corp., Valparaiso, Ind., In charge of corporate operations for the magnetic equipment manufacturer. Frank Is an old hand at industrial engineering and administra­tion, formerly with U.S. Rubber, Montgomery Ward and McKinse>*, management consultants. With wife Martha and four children he lives at Long Beach, Michigan City, Ind. 
Best vvishes to Chicago Trib sports columnist ^^ DAVE CONDON for full recovery after a mild heart attack last fall. 
1946 
Peter P. Richiski 
6 Robin Place 
Old Greenwich, Conn. 

^lail and news from classmates has been very thin since the last issue of the ALUMNUS. Once again I v\-ouId like to appeal to the Class of '46 to send In a few lines about yourselves. Fifteen years is a long time. Tills is your column so let's make It Interesting and worth reading. You send me the Information and I'll make sure it's passed on for print. A . 
It was vrith deep regret and sorrow to learn of • : 

the death of LT. JAMES E. CVSSIDY, BNS '46 
and LLB '49, who u*as killed by a train on No­
vember 18, 1961. SjTnpathy to his family from the 
Class of '46. 
Word has been received that DR. E. G. FOR­

TIER, who has been practicing ophthalmologv' in 
Lombard, Illinois for five years, has written a book 
entitled "Eye Muscle Problems in Children." Dr. 
Fortier has written this book for parents and 
teachers of children with Strabismus and includes 
the opinions of leading authorities on this subject. 
It is well recommended and anyone desiring to 
order it can obtain a copy by writing to: Roselle 
Publishing Company, P.O. Box 41, Roselle, Illinois A> 
(Cost, $7.50). « ' 
ELMER ANGSMAN was In New York recently 

renewing acquaintances with his many friends. 
Elmer has been doing T.V. work on football with 
A.B.C. 
Until the next issue, best wishes to all the Class 

of '46 and let's have that mail coming In. 
From the Alumni OfHce: 
THO^L%S J. SEEDORF, the p.r. man's p.r. man, was involved in a particularly Interesting move­ment last fall with his publicity release for the Public Relations Society of America — a non-sec­tarian movement, espoused by the Public Relations Jom-nal, to make St. Bcmardinc of Siena the ofli­cial patron of the "communications professions," I.e., public relations and advertising. The article and release described the I5th century Franciscan preacher as a man who pioneered the mass media through his sermons to huge audiences. f*} 
JAMES F. MOLIDOR Is now associate director of the new products division of Johnson & Johnson, New Brunsvtick, N.J., responsible for developing new hospital and professional products. Jim and wife Dorothy live In Summit with children Tim, Margaret, and Jim. 
A recent N.C. convert feature by Notre Dame's REV. JOHN A. O'BRIEN was a story in the words of CRAIG A. HEWETT about his conver­sion to the Faith through the example of '46-'47 buddies at the Grotto when he was on campus In , ^ .Navy ROTC. Craig's story names TOM LYONS, V JOHN MURRAY, BILL YOUNG, and particu­
40 Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March^ 2962 
larly BILL KAISER, *47, who w'as his baptismal 

9 sponsor. He abo credits the instruction of REV. ROLAND SIMONITSCH, CS.C. 
Dr. (Lt. Col.) JOSEPH L. HANNON is stationed in Hawaii as chief of general surgery at Tripler General Hospital, promoted to his present rank a year ago. Dr. and Mrs. Hannon were pleased to find an active N.D. Club in Honolulu and had a happy reunion with old buddy DON MACHADO. 
1947 
Jack Miles 
j 3218 Benlley Lane South Bend. Indian.i 

0 FROM BED TO VERSE (Written upon arising on a bitter cold winter day) The countdown has begun The 8th of June draws near You can't have any fun If you choose to absent yourself . . . Who can be a John Donne so early In the dav? Or even a Pcrc\- B>-sshe Shelley? TIic sense of tiie quattrain remains: Miss the reunion only if you have graduated to the higher forms of asceticism and have eliminated enjoyment entirely from your existence. 
Otherwise, be ye hedonist or merely apprentice ascetic, your presence is essential to the success of the third quinquennial comeback of the men of *47. 
You've already received your first mailing on the event, and if you haven't already returned your 
0 card, please do so right away so we can the more intelligently and precisely lay the groundwork for the June gala. 
BITS AND PIECES 

Anne .Marie and CHARLIE POINS.ATTE wel­c«»med Laureen to the family Oct. 19, and Wanita and ED BALL collaborated on the birth of Mar­garet Sept. 14; that's two daughters and a son for both couples. 
A note in the PAKISTAN LETTER published by the Holy Cross Mission Band reveals BROTHER THO.MAS MORE BEERE, CS.C, former assistant principal at St. Gregory's High School in Dacca, 
has been transferred to St. Nicholas Institute near 
• Xagari as headmaster. BROTHER IVAN DOLAN, CS.C, writes he spent Labor Day with 25 workmen dismantling the old school Iiou^e and building a new one at Biroida­kuni; he also reports he stuck his hand into the tail of a scorpion . . . "at first 1 thought it was a snake . . . however, since I am still alive, I pre­sume it u-as only a scorpion." 
LARRY REISTER has been promoted lo advanced underwriting assistant at the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co. in Boston; he's in Ins 13th year with the concern. 
F.ATHER MATT MICELI, CS.C, has been transferred from Notre Dame to Portland Univer­sity in Oregon. 
And that distinguished Philadelphia lawyer, BILL .MEEHAN, has written: "1 would like verj* much to be listed in the 1947 . . . class and I will make every- effort to return to the 1962 reunion with 
many of my friends." Don*t believe we have re­
• ported the death of Bill's father, Austin Meehan, early this past fall; he was onetime sheriff of Philadelphia and a longtime GOP leader in the City of Brotherly Love. We're sorrs* to have to report that news, but pleased to welcome Philly back to his original class. 
CHRISTALVS CARDS . . . . . . were received, and thanks for them, from the BILL PECKS, the ELMER XL\TTHEWS, the JOHN FITZHENRYS, and JIM ALWs'SFIELD. 
y We also heard from these classmates, with anno­tations added: 
JAMES P. DOYLE, '42 C-Day Chairman, C.P.A.-K.C.-C.C. Chief 
Last October 17 at the Blackhawk Hotel, Davenport, Iowa, the initials C.P..-\. tem­porarily signified "Challenge (rally) Public Address (system)" to Iowa's leading public accountant. For Jim Doyle, recently elected state president of his profession, was not only called upon to direct the Eastern Iowa "Program for the Future" campaign of the Notre Dame Foundation but also handled details of Davenport's Challcngc-Day kick­off on the nationwide N.D. telephone net­work. 
After a few years of working for others, Jim and 1942 classmate Emmett Kecnan formed the C.P.A. firm of Doyle and Keenan in 1949. Now, with less than 12 years in business, Jim is 1961-62 president of the Iowa Society of Certified Public Ac­countants, after a year as vice-president and three years on the state board. A member of the Council of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, he*s also past president of the Tri-City Chapter of the National Association of Accountants, having ser\*ed 1960-61 as a national director. 
Jim is an all-round operator in Daven­port's civic, religious and social life (past president of the Davenport Kiwanis Club, past Deputy Grand Knight of the Loras Council 532 Knights of Columbus, cur­rently ser\'ing three-year directorships with the Davenport Club and Chamber of Com­merce), but he's been even more active in alumni affairs. .-V past president of the Tri-City Notre Dame Club (extending to Moline and Rock Island, 111.), he has com­pleted five years of ser\*icc as Davenport-Bettendorf (la.) chairman for the Notre Dame Foundation. He was Notre Dame Man of the Year in 1958 — an honor awarded only twice in the history of the Notre Dame Club of the Tri-Citics. 
At the time of the Keenan partnership Jim also made a matrimonial merger. The last audit showed four little Doyles. 
S.\M ADELO — ''Saludos y recuerdos de un amigo que te cstima." Gracias, compadre, y lo mismo a usted. 
Pat and PAUL LIBASSI —"Ou r 'bacUield,' Mike, Mark, Dave, and Doug, will undoubtedly be added to in the spring, even though another dicer-leader to keep Patti company would be a sweet surprise. . . ." 
Doris and BOB MULCAHY— "I'm making cvcr>* effort to be at that '47 reunion io June . . . I know I would really enjoy it. Do you think I should make reservations for a seat at the Oliver bar!? Speaking of the reunion . . . can you guar­antee me that I won't qet 'campused'!?" 
JOHN THOM.VS —"Hi, Jack! Been writing Christmas notes to a bunch of my ole N.D. buddies re the '62 reunion. Hope I can rouse a little interest!" 
USE YOUR ROSTERS You have your class rosters, so why not use them to do as John Thomas and others are doing . . . fomenting interest in and enthusiasm for the June 8-10 doings? There arc some mialakes in the roster .. . many addresses are out of date already, but I'll be glad to furnish the correct ones instanter. You'll notice J.A.MES THOMAS CARLIN and ROBERT CHARLES SCHNEIDER are counted among the deceased: in Jim's case, this is a gross error, for he Is at last report selling insurance in Trenton, N.J., and we're still trying to verify the information on Bo!>. If any of you can furnish some, please do so. 
.\ND PLEASE DON'T HESITATE GIVE US YOUR WEEKEND JUNE THE 8th! 

Prof. THO.M.-\S STRITCH, head of the com­munication arts dept., submits the following run­down on '47 journalists: JOE CAMPBELL is mar­ried and has three children, is a columnist and reporter for the Birmingham (Ala.) News; JOE CONERTY went on to iaw (Joslyn, Parker, Kell & Concrty], has wife and five in Woodstock, 111.; TO>f EAGAN sells securities for Cobum & Mid­dlebrook, Torringion, Conn.; PAUL LIMONT, with four children, promotes sales for Crane Paper Co. in Mill Valley, Calif.; IGN.ACIO LOZ.ANO has three, publishes La Opinion in Los .Angeles; Secre­tary JACK MILES is married, doubles as an in­surance underivriter and Midwest editor for The Boating Industry: JIM NERAD, with a wife and three offspring, manages the Kcnilworth Inn, Un­colnwood. 111.; JIM REG.AN is a sports writer for the Springfield (Mass.) Daily Ne\vs; BOB SH-AW tcaclies high school and owns a book and record store in Tulsa, Okla., wife and two diildren; JOHN 
THOM.AS and wife have sU in Cincinnati, where he works for Philip Carey Mfg. Co. in advertising and sales promotion; J. D. USINA commands for the Navy Dept. in Washington, D.C., is com­manded by a wife and four; LORING WEBBER, with two children, docs sales for Hallmark Cards in Fairfield, Conn.; and BILL WICKS and wife have twoi in Deerfield, III., while he does adv. and 
p.r.
 with Aubrey, Finlay, Marlcy & Hodgson, Inc., Chicago. No report from J. A. CLEMENS, JOHN 

R.
 GOOD, L. J. HORNING, J. R. HOUGHTEL­ING. J. V. HUPF, E. G. O'CONNOR. R. E. FRANKLIN, JOHN F. REG.AN, J. B. HVNES and J. L. ZILLY. 


1948 
John Dcfant George A. Pflaum, 
Publisher, Inc. 38 West Fifth Street Dayton 2, Ohio 

From the Alumni Otiice: ''Heroism to the End" was tlic headline to the New York Times' -notice on tlie publication of "Before I Sleep," which it described as an account of "the last days of DR. THOALAS A. DOOLEY, the medical crusader." Sportscastcr J.ACK QUINLAN, talked out of an attractive New York deal by the boss of Chicago's station ^VGN, has agreed to be the Voice of the Chicago Cubs baseball team for ttvo more seasons. WILLIAM H. VOLL was named vice-president in charge of sales last fall for Sibley Mai:hinc & Foundry Corp. of South Bend. Bill joined the com­pany after sdiool and Navy service. He has been sales manager and assistant to the \*ice-presidcnt. On January-1 the South Bend firta of Perron R. Davis, Inc., changed its corporate name to Ferron 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ Febrttary'March, 1962 41 
DaWs, O'Brien Si. Co., Inc. The new ingredient is 1948's own JOHN W. 0*BRI£N% uho joined the investment company in 1959 after 11 years with St. Joseph Bank & Trust Co., South Bend, where he Vi'as Wcc-p resident of the commercial loan de­partment F.D.O*B., broker-dealer-investmcnt ad­\Tsor, is in its 19th year; the finn was incorporated in 1944, is registered with the S.E.C., the National Association of Securities Dealers, etc The new partner is married to the former Nancy Henderson. They have fi\'e children: Kathleen, 14; Anne, 13; Patricia, 11; John J., 8; and George (Major), 5. 
Another new partnenhip is Mahonc>-& Malioney, attome>'s-at-!aw, in Ashtabula, C , since JOSEPH 
E. MAHONEY, who implemented his Commerce degree with a combination course LL.B. in '49, joined brother JOHX P. MAHONEY, *38, in the general practice of law. Joe, who still feels tics to his original Class of *45 and w^ formerly with the New York oHice of the FBI, has settled in Ashtabula (1625 Ohio Ave.) *vith his wife and three sons. Brotlicr ROBERT J. AUHONEV, A.B. '40, LL.B. *48, was elected a local president of the UAW­CIO when he wtis still in school and is now an assistant prosecutor for St. Joe County. Bob lives in Soutli Bend with a considerable family of bis own. 
Lt, Col. JOSEPH D. SPINELLI finished a course 

in December at tlie Army Command and General 
Staff College, Ft. Leavenworth, Kan., hearing 
former president Harr>' Truman's commencement 
address. A grad sdiool education major, Joe is 
assigned in the Caribbean. 
The dozcn-or-so televised bowl games that ex­tended the past football season into spring practice were a fresh reminder that there's a real storj- in the radio-tele\Tsion talents of '48 football greats CEORGE CONNOR and JOHN LUJACK and such contemporaries as ELMER ANGSM.\N, '46. CEORGE RATFER-MAN, '49. etc 
The many TV chores of GEORGE CONNOR for CBS are a partial explanation of Moose's resig­nation from tlie N.D. .Mumni Board. It looks as if he'll be co\-ering the Chicago Bears with Red Grange and the bowls with Jim Gibbons for a long time. 
A teammate of George's both with FRANK LEAHY'S Irish and George Halas* Chicago Bears. JOHNNY LUJACK did the boxvl bit with >nclii­gan's Tom Harmon again, besides emcccing the weekly pro football highlights for CBS. In Daven­port, la., John has taken on quite a job, following the local Challenge appeal as cliairman of a fund <irive for the Davenport Diocese Papal Volunteers program. He'll head the ''special gifts" campaign for the movement ordered by Pope John to train Catholics for service in Latin America, where the diocese has already sent a teacher and nurse. John is a partner in Lujack-Schicrbrock Chevrolet Co. and a past leader of the March of Dimes, United Fimd, Red Cross, Junior Acliievemcnt and the Chamber of Commerce. TJic Lujacks have three children. 
P. H. WEYRAUCH has been elected assistant treasurer of Gulf Oil Corp., Houston, Tex., where he has been manager of domestic banking since last February'. For a Sterling, III. native, Paul lias been around, winning an M.B.A. at ^fichigan and lerving in GulPs treasury department in Pitts­burgh, Pa-, from 1953 until a year ago. Paul and wife Marion live in Houston with daughters, Eliza­beth, Susan, and Nancy. 
One-time classmate J.\MES P. KLEINHELTER is headquartered in Indianapolis as Indiana repre­sentative for Collier Books, Crowell-Colller's paper­back department, having represented Warner Chil­cott, Gcrbcr Baby Foods, and Zonitc. 
Since last July WILLIAM E. FIT2HARRIS has been public relations manager of AMF Pinspotters, Inc., headquartered in Westbury, N.Y. Formerly with tlie sporting goods diWsion of U.S. Rubber, Bill now li\'es in Hampton, N.Y.. with his wife and family. One of the nicer prrquisilcs ol the new job is shown in this issue's picture of Bill inih Miss Long Island. 
S>'mpathy to the family of a departed classmate from the grad scliool, REV. FRANCIS J. OVHILL, who served as a Marj-knoU missioncr among the Indians in Peru and, like his idassmate TOM DOOLEY, died of cancer back in tlie States. 
Journalism and law grad VINCENT C. SCULLY, JR., of Highland Park, 111., is a junior exec in the Kemper insurance group's Chicago office since last fall, serving as senior claim examiner for New England and electronics coordinator. Vince and wife Catherine have three sons (Vincent III, John, IViUiam) and four daughters (Mary Joan, Helenc, Marian and Claire). 
This solves at least one mystery for Prof. TOM 
WILLIAM E. FITZHARRIS, '48, in his iic^\' capacity as public relations manager for AMF Pinspotters, Inc., has the pleas­ant task of helping Miss Long Island "have a ball" — bowling, that is — among prizes at the company's Long Island Fair exhibit. 
STRITCH, who reported the follmvlng on '48 communicators from liis occasional alumni survey: JOHN BREHL, staffer on the Toronto Star, has six kids; BILL BROUTs' is an unattaclied Chicago free lance; JIM BUTLER, with three, is a disc jockey-producer for CBS St. Louis outlet KMOX; JOHN CASHMAN collects taxes and dodges dames in San Jose, CaliL; MARION CRANEY, executive director of the Kansas Assn. for Mental Health in Topcka, has SLX youngsters; NOEL DIGBY, matcliing Scully ^rith seven, is radio-TV \»-ritcr-produccr for Gardner Adv., St. Louis; BILL HARRINGTON, with New York's Young-Rubicam, has four in Darien, Conn.; JERRY HEKKER, associate editor of New York's Insurance Advocate, has a son and another on the way; JOHN LAUGHLIN edits these pages and has four siblings; JOHN MALONEY is married, has a child, and works in sales in Jersey City, N.J.; TONY ^L\RINO teaclics high scliool English in Frankfort, N.Y., lias spouse and two; JIM MC­CARTHY is married and a consulting engineer with Chicago's Alexander Proudfoot Co.; JOHN MIN­ZING is executive secrctar\* for the county mfgis. assn. in Joliet, III., has a wife and cliild; PHIL MUNNING, \rith five, is district mgr. for State Farm Insurance in Red Bank, N.J.; JOHN NOONAN is ass't zone mgr. for Poniiac di\-ision of G.M. in Los Angeles, has four children; JOHN 
A. O'CONNOR has three, edits Tlie Monitor for tlic San Francisco Diocese; HENRY PYNE, with a wife and child, runs the library and reports for Worcester papers in Milford, Mass.; JOE REILLY has a wife, and five little rancliers out of Santa Rosa, N.M.; JACK SLATTERY is an unmarried public relations man with George Daly Associates in N.Y.C.; PAUL THEIS is the same for the Repub­lican Congressional Committee in Washington, D.C.; and DA\'E \VARNER, ^rith wife and two kids, is on the stair of tlie Rochester, N.Y., Democrat and Chronicle. There was no report from journalists ELLS^VORTH CORDESNL\N, JIM DRONEY, DAN LEARY, JIM MAGUIRE, TOM MANGAN, LEO NOLAN, ED OMILL\K, KARL SCmVEIN-FEST, VINCE SCULLY, STE\'E VALETICH, and JOE CHENEY. 
1949 
John Walker Wayne, Illinois 

From the Alumni Office: Congratulations to WILLIANf \\\ HOBAN of San Mateo, Calif., on his recent election as president and cliief executive officer of Incandenscent Supply Co. of California, manager of tivelve electric supply 
corporations in the San Francisco area. Same to MARTIN E. ZERNICK of Easton, Pa., named Q president of NYT Mfg. Co., Inc., electronic com-^^ ponent de\'clopers u-itb plants at Alpha and Phillips-burg, N.J. Marty and wife now have five children. 
PAUL BAILEY reported from Ottowa, III., that 
PAT MEENAN of the Class is now mayor of 
Casper, Wyo. No further details. Paul also reported 
the death of Earl D. Clark, father of classmate 
JOHN T. CLARK of Ottowa and his brother 
William D., '47. Mr. Clark has been remembered 
in campus pravers. S>'mpathy to John and Bill. 
FRANK T. CAVANAUGH, formerly manager of 
machine accounting for Johnson & Johnson, New 
Brunswick, N.J., has moved to the Controller's 
Department as staff assistant for special assignments 
in financial analysis. With wife Julia and daughter 
Maureen, going on 2, Frank lives in Highland ^B 
Park, N.J. 
A card addressed to the "Notre Dame Forty Nincrs" in care of the Alumni Association reports that MOST REV. MARK G. McGRATH, C.S.C., Titular Bishop of Ccciri and Auxiliary of Panama, ''wishes to thank you most sincerely for your kind remembrance and your prayers on the occasion of his Episcopal nomination, and promises to keep yon alwa>-s in his prayers." 
On December 10, 1961, HOWARD HORNING, music instructor at Ludington (Mich.) High, re­alized a band director's dream and made his TV debut in a professional football half time. Howie's Ludington band was invited by the Detroit Lions to provide intermission entertainment on camera for the Lions-Vikings game. LEON HART, incidentally, A must be pleased at Alma Mater's repeat performance in the N.F.L. playoffs, sparked by successor NICK PIETROSAN*TE. 
CHARLES E. ROMER of Cincinnati is now 
manager for American United Life's agenc>' in his 
home town, after five years as a unit manager and 
previous work in advertising. Tlic Romcrs Iiave five 
children. 
Law Scliool cohort J. LEE JOHNSON HI was 
recently elected a \ice-president and director of 
Carter Publications, Inc., publisher of the Fort 
•Worth, Tex., Star-Telegram and operator of radio-TV station WBAP. Lee, who had resigned as pres­ident of a local lumber company, came to the new job witli high local regard as a lawyer, businessman and civic leader in health, welfare and recreation. He was president of Fort AVorth Children's Hospital ^ and a regent of the University of Texas during ^ P periods of great expansion, and he also was an enthusiastic supporter of Junior Achievement in Tarrant County. 
Follou-ing is a quick once-over on the journalism class from ProL THO.MAS STRITCH (key: ".\I" denotes "married" and numeral the number of children): CARL APONE is a reporter for the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette; ROBERT A2AR (M) handles real estate in Sherman Oaks, Calif.; ROBERT ROGER (M-3) is vice-president of Juhl Advertising Agency, Elkhart, Ind.; PETER BROWN (M-4) is in sales for Bcrger-Rivcnburgh, Chicago; JIM BUTZ (M-5) is golf products mgr. for Bruns­wick in Chicago; JOHN CARROLL (M-6) is an ^ electronic computer analj-st in Dayton, O.; E.S. w CASO (M-4) markets for General Foods in Mont\-aK', N.J.; TOM CLEMENTE (M-5) publishes for J.R. Condon & Sons, Albany, N.Y.; LAWRENCE CON­NOR (M-3) edits news for the Indianapolis Star; JEROME CUNNINGHAM (.M-5) sells steel for Keystone in Memphis, Tenn.; JOE DOYLE (M-5) is sports editor for the South Bend Tribune; RAYMOND FITZGER.ALD (M-4) writes on sports for the Springfield (Mass.) Union; DENNIS FOLEY 
(M) is a lawyer in Binghamton, N.Y.; GREG HALPIN (M-1) is director of communications for the Maryland Port Authority, Baltimore; RICHARD HOAG (M-1) is a film director for Thomas Marker & Co., Detroit; JOHN KENNEDY (M-7) lists police training and criminal investigation in Ocean­side, L.L, N.Y.; JIM KING (M-4) is personnel manager for B. Altman & Co., Westchester, N.Y.; JIM KLOCKENKEMPER ("M-2) ts Michigan busi­ness rep. for U.P.I.. Detroit; JOHN KRUEGER ^ (M-2) is London correspondent for Stars & Stripes; " RICHARD LAMERE (M-3) is a reporter for the Boston Traveler; BILL LYMAN (M-2) is a copy­writer for Leo Burnett Co., Chicago; JOHN E. MORAN (M-4) is in independent oil & gas production in Tulsa, Okla.; JOSEPH PIEDMONT (M-4) docs public relations for Appalacliian Power Co., Roanoke, Va.; EUGENE SCHAFFER (-M-2) is promotion mgr. for the Los Angeles Mirror; JOHN SENYCZKO (M-1) is sporU editor for the Port Huron (AGch.) Times Herald; ROBERT SHAFER is contracts administrator for Setton ^ ^ Industries, Inc., Los Angeles; PHILIP SHEA (M-3). 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 
p.r. for Pliilip Carey Mfg Co., N.Y.C.: BILL 
(^HERMAN (M-l) is Western director [or the National Golf Foundation, San Francisco; JOHN STEEVENS (M-1) is technical editor for Aerojet-General Corp, r\zusa. Calif.; JOHN J. SULLI­VAN (M-2) is a sports writer for the Boston Traveler; ALEX TOTH (M-5) is a cookwarc distributor in Seattle, Wash.; BOB VIERHILE retails furniture and appliances in Naples, N.Y.; DONALD WEBER (M-6) docs p.r. for Nalco Chemical Co., Chicago; BILL ZUPANCIC (,M-2) is an enginccrins assistant for American Oil Co., Lansing, III. Reports arc lacking on T.B. BR.\DY, 
R.D. DONOGHUE, E,W. JOYCE, C.\L MC­DONALD, T.R. REAGAN. J.W. WATERS, A.G. MAHONEY, and J.M. WIEMAN. 
As of last July, JOSEPH S. CONCVNNON 

Anovcd to 1880 South Llvermore Ave. in LIvcrmore, Calif., where he continues with the family wine business, Concannon Vineyard, in charge of sales and winerj- operation. Joe was elected to a four-year term on the local district board, and he was also appointed as a director of California's Wine Ad­\'i5or\' Board. Last March Leslie .-\nn joined the Concannons, already the parents of Elizabeth, 4, and Tom, 3. 
1950 
Richard F. Hahn 47 Emerson Rd. Glcn Rock, N. J. 

From the Alunmi Office: PHILIP A. DELfVNEY has been promoted to assistant vice-president at Chicago's Harris Trust & Savings Bank for the metropolitan division. Phil joined Harris after a tour In the Marines, got an M.B..-\. from the U. of Chicago in 1936, and Is a director of Dcltex, Inc. The Delancys have three childrrn. HARRY J. QUINN, president of Pacesetter Homes with a I960 volume of §10 milHon from homes in sis south suburban Chicago communities, has been elected to membership In the Young Presidents Organization, limited to those who attain the presi­dency of a large business before the age of 40. He joins Motorola's BOB CALVIN, '44, among Chi­cagoans to receive the honor. FR.\NCIS J. FITZGERALD, formeriy Boston dis­
• trict sales office manager for the inorganic chemi­cals division of Monsanto Chemical Co., has been' nanifd manager of surfactant sales for the division at St. Louis. 
Joltin* JIM M.ARTIN sustained a serious injur\­to bis shoulder early In the Detroit Lions pro foot­ball season and went on to be as \*aluabte for his toe as teammate NICK PIETROSANTE is with both feet. Jim was honored by the Detroit com­munity in special ceremonies during the Lions-Packers Tlianksgiving Day game, when Turkey Day became Jim Martin Day. JOHN PANELLI, '49, was chairman for the loot turned over to AJI-American Martin for II years of service to the team. 
 JAMES F. SLATTERY was elected rice-presi­

•t 
dent of Geo. W. Millar & Co., Inc.. New York papi-r manufacturer, last fall. 
DR. EUGENE A. CAMPANALE, formerly of Misliawaka. Is director of secondar>' education for the Marion. Ind., public school system. Gene got bis Ph.D. from Indiana U. last summer on a grad asslslantsbip after winning bis M.A. at N.D. and teaching In South Rend and Flint. Mich. He's shown in this Issue with wife Joan and their four children. Beth Marie, Anthony. Carol Ann and Christi>p!ier. 
DR. THOMAS O'NEILL, who got his master's degree In '51, teaclics bIolog>- at Ventura College and has won fame for bis research at the Navy Construction Center, Port Huencme, Calif., on bacteria which seem to thrive on creosote, a ma­terial used on wooden pilings. 
A director>' of journalism classmates was pro­vided by Professor Stritch of the commtmlcation ^krt s dept., as follows (star denotes wife, number ^o r diildren): JOE ARCHIBALD 1*2), sales mgr. & p.r., Jefferson Electric. Bellwood, III.; JOS. BENOrr, assoc. editor, Columbia magazine. New Haven, Conn.; WM. BRADLEY (*fi), consultant, Re>-nolds, Ward & Carey, Denver, Colo.; VIC DORR (*2), copy cd., Richmond (Va.) News Leader; FRANK HARTNETT, high school English teacher, Buffalo, N.Y.; JOE HERRINGTON, copy reader, N.Y. Times; VERNE KELLEY (*), V-P, adv. & p.r.. Greyhound Corp., Chicago; JOHN McAULIFFE, high school English teacher, Bellows ^alls , Vt.; BILL McCLINTON, reporter, Pitts­burgh Catholic; JOHN McGOLDRICK (*5), assoc. 
editor, emplovee communications, American Can, N.Y.; JOHN McHALE {*7), FBI, Washington, D.C.; HARRY MONAH.VN ('4), sports makeup editor, San Diego (Calif.) Union; BEN MUNCIL (•), high school teacher, Tenafly, NJ.; DON RATCHFORD (*2), promotion mgr., D'Arc>- Adv. Co., St. Louis, Mo.; PHIL RECORD (•3). re­porter. Ft. Worth (Tex.) Star-Telegram; BOB RO.MAKER {*3), sports ed.. Saginaw (.Mich.) ,\'cws; DICK ROSENGARTEN (*2), pub. rel.. Citizens Gas & Coke, IndianapuUs, hid.; LOU RUKAVINA {*&). owner, Barbecue King Sales, Milwaukee, Wis.; BOB RUSSEL. (*5), sports cd., Albuquerque (X.M.) Journal; JOE SCHEIDLER, inst., commun. arts, N.D.; ALDEN SCRIBA (*), feature writer, Mili.%-aukcc Journal; BOB SINCA­VICH (•3), pres., .Minit Car Wash, Inc., Wheeling, W.Va.; DONAL SMITH (•4), laivycr, Cleveland, O.; ED SNYDER (*2), ass't lo pres., .Vorth /Vmcrican Car Corp., Chicago; BOB STOCK (»), news ed.. Catholic Universe Bulletin, Cleveland, O.; Rx\LPH STRUHS (*5), sales fi: promotion, 
H. B. Zacliary Properties, Inc., San Antonio, Tex.; R/\Y SULLIVAN (*5), Milu-aukee, Wis.; Z.ANE TRINKLEY (*4), display ad sales, South Bend Tribune; R^\LPH WRIGHT (*7), account exec., Mcldrum & Fewsmltb, Inc., Cleveland, O. No report from R, F. DOHERT\*, F. G. GEORGE, 
J. J. MAHER, T. .M. McALLISTER, W. H. Mc-DER.MOTT, THO.M.AS MINZIG, W. R. WEIR, 
L. B. FL.\HERT\', R. L. KUEHNER, R. M. PRENDERGAST, J. F. RILEY, -M. E. ROMANO. 
1951 
Robert Klingenbergcr 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. ^Vayne, Indiana 

From the Alumni Offices: ALL.\N J. (BUD) POWERS reports that the life of a vice-president In a girls' college is a very pleasant one. For those who missed the news. Buddy regretfully resigned fiom the N.D. Founda­tion staff last fall to accept the position of vice-president in charge of development at Detroit's Merc\- College. He's there principally for his fund raising and public relations know-how and prob­ably hopes the Sisters of Merc>* don't learn of his speech and drama work at Columbia or the chore­ographic prowess he displayed In student shows. Bud and hb wife Lynn are now the proud parents of two daughters, Christine and Elizabeth. 
JOHN J. SEE and his Kansas City colleague JOHN L.AWRENCE DAW, '52, won a Lincoln Foundation award for design of arc-welded struc­tures. Tlieir entries were the Group Medical Prac­tice Building, the Doctors Clinic, and the head­quarters of Hudson Oil Co. 
Most journalism classmates reported In on Prof. Tliomas Slritch's Communication Art Survo' (aster­isk means married, number for children); JIM CARRIG (^4) does advertising for Goulds Pumps, Seneca Falls, .N'.Y.; JI.M aXRROLL (*5) is poli­tical writer-columnist for the South Bend Tribune; 
T. E. COSTELLO (*2) is advertising mgr. for Allied Mills. Inc., Fort Wayne, Ind.; JOE DU­KERT (*) Is mgr. of info. scr\'iccs for the Martin Co., Baltimore, Md.; a\R L EIFERT (*4) reports for the ^(adlson. Wis., bureau of the ililwaukee Journal; JACK J.VNOWSKI (•4) edits NOTRE DAME magazine; JIM KINGSLEY (*3) manages marketing for the American Management Assn., N.Y.C.; DICK KOSMICKI publicizes Allied Chemi­cal Corp., N.Y.C.; D.AN McCARTHY (*6) reports for the Catholic Chronicle, Toledo, O.: R^\Y Mc-CONNON works for the U.S..\. in Washington, D.C.; L/\RRY McDERMOTT (*2) Is an ad copy­writer in San Francisco, Calif.; BOB .MURPm' (•5) is an FBI special agent in Dolton, III.; JOHN ROHRB.ACH {*$) sells NBC-TV time In Chicago; GEORGE SCHW.ARTZ photographs for Perurian Ski Lodge. Alta, Utah; TO.M SINCLAIR (*3) does public relations for Dow Chemical Co. in N.Y.C.; JOHN A. STUPALSKY docs the same for Keats, .Allen & Keats, Washington, D.C.; and KEN THOREN super\'Ise5 commercial copy for RCA and 
J. Walter Tliompson in N.Y.C. Tliere Is no report from R. L. BRENDT, W. L. DRISKILL or J. F. FERRY.MAN. 
1952 
Harry L. Buch 600 Board of Trade BIdg. Wheeling, W.Va. 

From the Alumni Office: JOHN W. STOEPLER was graduated magna cum laude from the University of Toledo Law-School last June and was a\%'arded a fellowship to Yale University I*aw School, where he will study for Ills master's and doctorate in law. JAMES D. H.AGGERTV of Chicago has been promoted to vice-president in charge of sales for Pacesetter Homes, Inc., South Holland, 111., bv President HARRY J. QUINN, '50 (just elected to the Y.P.O.), making Pacesetter a real N.D. enter­prise. Jim's a licensed broker and has been busy on all six Pacesetter subdivisions since early in 1961. As sales manager In one of the dirislons he sold 90 houses In 90 days. He was formerly sales manager tor Haggcriy OU Co. and %-arious real estate com­panies besides appraising mortgages for Equitable Life. Jim and wife, the former Joan Murphy, have three children: James, Jr., 8; Cathy, 7; and Joan, 6. 
W. F. BUECHE hxs been appointed manager of the Detroit district by the industries group of Allis-Chalmers Mfg. Co. He bad been manager of utility sales In the Cleveland district since 1959. JOHN 
H. ROSS has been named secretary of the New York Stock Exchange, which he joined In 1957. He was named administrative assistant to the secre­tary- in 1958 and assistant secretary In 1960. John has an LL.B. from Georgetown. He, his wife (nee Nano* -Ann Gribbon of Oak Park, III.) and their six children live in Huntington Station, L.I., N.Y­
ROBERT K. GORDON, JR., has been appointed Caterpillar Tractor's earthmoving representative for Montana, Idaho, and North and South Dakota. He joined Caterpillar in 1956 after four years as a Navy civil engineer. Bob's wife is the former Reglna Boyle of Boston. The>- have three children: Mary- Kathleen, 5; Robert K. Ill, 3; and Theresa Ann, 1. The Gordons have moved to Billings, Montana. 
ELMER F. L.\YDEN, JR., is now manager of Continental .\ssurance Company's new branch office In Chicago's Loop after a year and a half ivith the company. Elmer and wife DeLores have four chil­dren: twins Kim and Karen, 3; Elmer III, 3; and Thomas John, 2. 
The inside stor>' of Chicago's police burglary scandal was related to the Chicago Catholic Uni­versity Club last November by LOUIS GARIPPO, assistant state's attorney, according to a note from classmate RUDY UNGER of the Chicago Tribune. Lou interviewed witnesses, gathered evidence and laid strategy In three cases of conspinic>', bribery and burglary which commanded world-wide atten­tion. In three years Lou has helped to prosecute several cases of dope peddlers, burglars, rapists and murderers. 
DR. JOSEPH D. LAUFERSWEILER has been appointed assistant professor of biology' at Drake University after serving as an instructor In botany and plant pathology at Ohio State, where he ob­tained his master's and doctor's degrees. E. D. D'ARCY, formerly large job salesman for U.S. Gvpsum's Lakeland dlxislon, has become a sheet-rock specialty salesman in Clilcago. 
JOHN J. CAREY has been appointed vice-president of Middlesex Financial Management Corp., a jointly owned affiliate of Mutual Boiler & Macltlnery Insurance Co. and Boston Manufac­turer's Mutual. After two years service wltb Cater­pillar Tractor Co. in Peoria he joined Mutual Boiler In Chicago In 1954 and went to Boston In 1959. 
The following report on 1952*5 uncommunica­tive communicators was submitted by communica­tion arts' Professor TOM STRITCH (asterisk for marriage, number for children): CARL BACHLE 
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 43 
<*3) marketing mgr., Aeroquip Corp., Burbank, Calif.; KtAURICE BATES (•4) attome>-, S.E.C., Washington, D.C.; GERALD BURLAGE, producer­direclor-ivriter, \\T.W-TV, Cindnnati, O.; RICH­ARD CODY, adv. cop>-»»ritcr, Chicago; JOSEPH DEISS (•!) p.r. director, Kentucky Fair & Expo­sition Center, LouisWlIe; ^V^L DELAXEV (*4) captain US.AF, Japan; RAY EARLS (M) com­
munications consultant, New England Tel. & Tel.. 
Boston, Mass.; BOB FLYNN (*2) editorial stafT. Birmingliam (Ala.) News; JACK HYNES (*3) ^VHDH-CBS-TV, Boston, Mass.; JIM JACOBS, actor-wTiter, Holl>-wood, Calif.; JL\1 LUND (*) reporter, Biloxi-Gulfport (Miss.) Daily Herald; HENRY MAYER, research assistant, Eastern Ken­tucky Commission, Frankfort, Ky.; JOHN ME.\NEY (*5) Van Wyk's, Inc. (Volksivagen-Porschc), Santa Barbara, CaUf.; TOM 0\'ERHOLSER (*2), adv., Robertson's Dept. Store, South Bend; JACK POWERS (*5) mg. ed.. South Bend Tribune; CAPT. FRANK PRICE (*3) Army ROTC in­structor, Seattle (Wash.) Univ.; JOE STRAUB (•7) attorney, Linnan, Lynch & Straub, /Ugona, loiva; RUDY UNGER, editorial staff, Chicago Tribune; JACK VARLEY (*2) community rela­
tions super\-isor. East Ohio Gas Co., Cleveland; JOEL HTLLS (*4) promotion director, Thomas More Assn., Chicago; and RON ZIER (*2) pub. rcl., American Cyanamid, N.Y.C. No report from 
T. J. BENNETT, J. P. BROW7>, T. ^f. DRIS­COLL, H. K. HOELSCHER, or JEROME J. KLISE. 
1953 
David A. McEIvain 2328 Alexander Terr. Homcwood. Illinois 

From the Alumni Office: Representatives of major and independent pro­ducers chose an expert on natural gas regulation to head key industry' efforts to aid the Federal Power Commission in its attempt to put area pricing into effect. ALFRED C. DeCRANE, JR., of Houston, Tex., a member of Texaco*5 legal staff, *v'as named chairman of the steering committee. ,A1 is a mem­ber of the Virginia and D.C. Bar and an officer in the Marine Corps Reser\c. BRIAN KELLY, juvenile on ilic defunct Dennis Morgan private eye scries, has returned to televi­sion as star of the ABC-TV action series "Straight­au-ay," in whicli he plays — of all things — a com­bination hot rod mcclianic and super sleuth. Ac­cording to press releases he's reinforcing his N.D. study In political science with a night course in "modem" political science at Vallc>- College, Calif. Brian, whose father u-as governor of Michigan, \\'as quoted as saying: "First and foremost I feel that e\cr>'one should be well acquainted u-itli the ad­mlolstration and background of his city, state and national; gcrvemment.*- No-one has-a right- to gripe about the way things arc run unless he is active in political matters and voted in cverj' election. We wouldn't have any problems in government if ever>' citizen was ivell informed." 
JAMES JOHN RIHA got an M.Ed, degree last August from Ohio's Kent State University, major­ing in health and pli>*sical education. 
Journalism majors were reported by communica­tion arts head THOMAS STRITCH as follows (* married, plus number of dilldren): GERALD BOEHLING (*2) sales promotion mgr., The ^fcn­nen Co., Morrtsiown, N,J.; DON CARBONE, O.C.D.M., Wasliington, D.C ; JOHN COX (*3) TV coordinator. National Education Assn., Wash­ingion, D.C; RICHARD T. DALEY (•!) sales rep., American Sterilizer Co., Chicago; JOS DUR­KIN {*3) mfgr. rep., Yonkcrs, N.Y.; JACK FINK (•4) mgr. Our Sunday Visitor outside magazine printing, Huntington, Ind.; AL.AN FITZGIBBON, adv., Winius-Brandon Co., St. Louis, Mo.; TOM FOOTE, p.r. dept.. Union Tank Car Co., Chicago; JIM GANNON (*2) announcer, AVSBT, South Bend; E. GIACOMINI {*2) attorney, Bank of America, San Francisco, CaliL; BOB HAINE, p.r., Tidewater Oil Co., Los Angeles, CallL; LES H.AL­SEMA (*1) p.r.. Aerojet General Corp., Azusa, CaliL; RAY HUMBLE (*1) ad salesman, Boulder (Colo.) DaUy Camera; MORT KELLY {*3) p.r-. 
N.Y. Telephone Co.; FRANK LEE, JR. {*2) 
DR. EUGENE A. CAMPANALE, '50, has moved to Marion, Ind., as director of public schoo! secondary' education, bringing his family: (from left) Carol, 4; Joan Cam­panale; Beth, 7; Tony, 6; Gene, and Christopher, 3. (Afarion Chronicle-Tribune photo) 
account exec, Ted Bates & Co., N.Y.C; TOM MURPHY, mg. cdiior, Farmcr^s Friend & Rural Reporter, Green Bay, AVis.; BOB RUST ("4) mgr., TIic Fair Store. Greensburg, Ind. Xo report from 
L. S. BOURJAILY, E. J. FRANTZ, J. C. HUM­MEL, J. F. O'NEIL, J. N. LUBY, P. A. TAGUA. 
1954 
Milton J. Beaudinc 76 East Court Dr. Decatur, Illinois 

Well! Ya can't win them all. .Although our re­union party was held immediately after we pre­sented onr midshipmen friends with an early Christmas present of a 13-10 \ictor\', I can still report that our V/z yr. reunion was a gas. Aband­oning the intelligent organized ^^'ay, I didn't make a list of cver\-onc I sa\v, so please accept my apolo­gies if 1 miss anyone of you %vho were there. Here goes: Highlight of the weekend was viewing pic­tures of BRIAN WTIIGHT, amazing son of Jane and BOB WRIGHT. Some of the Cincinnati crowd also at the party were BILL BURKE and his bride of 6 months, Madeline and DICK CASTELLINI, (Dick is attending law scliool and Madeline is expecting No. 5) and PAUL KELLY. By this writing, if he doesn't back out, Paul will have settled down and become a married (ha) man. Familiar faces from the Chicago area were BILL MORLEY, TOM REYNOLDS, J. D. MADIGAN, BILL CAVANAUGH (of Tonka Toy fame), ED BROWN, and JOE MESEC Also spent many hours during the weekend with BOB and "RO RO" RODEN and Jane and JIM BERNHART. "The Bern" is with Motorola, managing sales In the area and consulting on the Irish football fortunes. TOM MURPHY, Indiana Ins. Co., Consolidated Bldg., Indianapolis, has written me since tlic party requesting that BARRY (YAZZO CITY) REECE be barred from future affairs. Smart thinking Tom! As you pointed out, Barr>' is rather Ill-mannered and besides he drinks too mucli. Barr>' is %vorking with GEORGE PFLAUM in Dayton, Ohio. (Ruth and GEORGE PFLAUM also made the scene.) Listing a few more familiar faces, in no particular order: TO.M DE.MPSEY (I think), TOM GODFREY, PHIL DOELL, tVALT DUSCH­KA, GEORGE KOCH, LEE BAZ.ANY, BILL DALY (I think), and JOE McGlNN. You must remem­ber there wss a lot of booze flowing, and things were not as clear as they might have been. JERRY KEATING (Sears Roebuck, Chicago) was at the game but couldn't make the party. Holding fats own with the Martinis was MARTY TUCH. An old Navy buddy DAN MUNSON and his wife wcrx: 
there. Also talked with TONf SHORT. JIM HAM­
LIN, MAX PLANTE. CHARLIE ALLEN, WALT # 
WAGNER, TOM REYNOLDS, JIM RICHARDS, 
and I think I saw ROCK MORRISSEY. ED SEIM 
was there also, and without "THE GROSS 
PIETSCH" things didn't seem the same. Elaine 
and JACK PITTAS — ^vho were "waiting'* in No­
vember, have been blessed with No. 5, Douglas, 
just before Tlianksginng. That makes 4 boys, I 
girl (and a dog). I made the trip with ^(ar>' .Ann 
and GEORGE HUBBARD, who are among the 
class leaders as they expect their sixth child In 
August. Naturally the workhorse of the outfit. 
DICK PILGER, was there and reports that teach­
ing at N.D. is really a wonderful experience. Oh! 
Last but definitely not least, there was JAKE 
NOONAN, looking tanned and fit. One last word ^ 
on the party—If everj'one who came had sent In^P 
their rescr^'atlon we wouldn't have run out of 
liquor when we did. For 3c send me a postcard 
Indicating your choice as to when we should do 
this again. 
TOM J. CAMPBELL and spouse were blessed with the birth of Mary Kathryn on Aug. 15, and on Sept. 19 Pat and FRANK RAITH were blessed with Kerry Ellzabeth-
From Mrs. THOMAS LINDSAY, 6513 Hanover Ave., Springfield, Virginia: Tom Is presently a Lt., USN and married Marie on June 27, 1959. Prior to this stint in the na\-y Tom attended M.I.T., mastering In aeronautics and astronautics. Tom and Marie have one son, Ricliard, born on ^farch 27. I960. 
JOHN A. POIRIER reports Ids marriage to^J Patricia O'Lcary (Polish girl) on Nov. 11 in i Berkeley. Last known address is 920 Hilldale Ave., \ Berkeley 8, California. 
JOHN GLASGOW, 1562 Huxley Dr., Columbus 13, Ohio, penned me a letter bringing me up to date — John and wife have two boys, John. Jr., and Gregory. John is in the aircraft industry-, having moved from St. Louis. He reports seeing RAY KREBER, MIKE SCANLON, L.VRRY COR-Brrr and JOH N VTSENTINE in the Columbus area and talking to BILL TILL occasionally In Pittsburgh. 
WALT STAUB reports the following autoluog-^ raphy: After graduation scr\Td two years whb Uncle Sam during which he met and married Marion Greene. They have 3 boys, Mike 5. Bill 3, and Kevin 1. Walt is working in the engineering^ department of the Lock Joint Pipe Co. and Is^) located at 725 W. 21st, Ada, Oklahoma. If Okla­homa City runs dry of water next summer blame Walt! 
As advertised, an ole buddy, JOHN "KID" MULVANEY, married Marian in Long Beacli, California (lost address, John, WTIIC!) I have an­other long letter from BOB MILLER which I'll save until next deadline. Thanks, Bob. With sin­cere regret we learned of the death of the wife of JOE ^VESTER. Remember her In your prayers. In case anyone is interested in locating an old buddy, write me, as I have many recent addresses. May I be one of the first to wish you a wild St. Patrick's Day? And lay off the green beer! _^ 
From DICK PILGER, another account of thc ^ Navy bash: 
**The cocktail party after the Navy game was a roaring success (even though the game wasn't). About 135 persons attended, which was not only more than responded to the flyer but also more than MILT BEAUDINE and I estimated in our wildest flights of fancy. It was the concensus of all present that this should be an annual affair. THEREFORE: on OCTOBER 6, 1962, after the Purdue game, the men of '54 with their wives wid friends will assemble In tlie lounge of O'SIiaugh­nessy Hall for the B'/z Year Reunion. (TJie same deal — $2.00 each, $3.50 per couple.) 
My record-keeping wasn't too good, but here is my list of llie fellows who attended: LEROY BAZANY, MILT BE.AUDINE, ED BROWN, JOHN BIERBUSSE, BILL BURKE, DICK CASTELLINI, BILL CAVANAUGH, TOM CANNON, DICK CUNNINGHAM, JERRY CAMPBELL, BILL A DALY, WALT DUSCHKA, PHIL DOELL. TOM ^ DEMPSEY, DICK FOLEY, BOB FROLICHER, DAVE FOY, NED GRIFFIN, GEORGE HUB­BARD, JLM HAMLIN, BOB INEICH, JOE JOYCE, GEORGE KOCH, BOB KROP, ROCKNE MORRISSEY, DAN MUNSON, JOE MESEC, DAN MURPHY, BILL MORLEY, JOE MADI­GAN, JOE McGINN, TOM MURPHY, LEO MICHUDA, DAN NOONAN, PAT 0'AL\LLEY, TIM 0*HARA, LEO PETELLE, DICK PILGER, GEORGE PFLAUM, MAX PLANTE, BOB PO-^^ DEN. JOHN PITTAS, ART PETERSEN, BARRY^ REESE, BILL RICHARDS, BILL REYNOLDS, 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus^ FebruaTy-March, 1962 
TOM REYNOLDS, NED SEIM, FATHER JOHN 
•TEWART 
, JIM STUBEL. JOHN TRUCANO. TlOB AVRIGHT, and RONNIE ZANETTI. My apologies to those I've omitted. 

"Many of the replies carried some nc\vs and some good excuses (or not being present. For example: Capt. VINCE FERNANDES is with the infantry in Berlin; NICK KRALL was pacing the floor outside the maternity ward (fifth!) as was CHARLIE ALLEN; the DICK KELCHES tvere expecting in mid-October; Capt. OTTO HILBERT was on duty at the Air Force Academy; DON LANDFRIED is also in Germany; Capt. ART HAESCHE, JR., was recalled to Uie Air Force; Dr. BILL D\VYER is back in the Army; Lt. JOHN SHEEDY, USX (MD) uTotc that the winters in Brunswick, Maine, aren't as bad as in South Bend and also reported 

•ha 
t the family is now two boys and one girl; PHIL (SCOTTY) SULLIVAN has been recalled to the Army; JOE D*ANTONI claimed he was working hard at a new business; DAVE DEWEESE was to be in town as a guest of Drewry's and couldn't join us (I suppose Big D did have a larger supply than we did); HERM KREIGSHAUSER promised to make it next time, as did a number of others. 


**AL BR^\NIGAN* sent a real newsletter from Washington, where he is in tlic middle of law school. Al says wc should expect some family news from t!ic BOB RAYMONDS; he sees FRAN RO­MANCE, who is working on a Ph.D. at George­town, and BUD MEAGHER, who works in Wash­ington to support seven children. Al was worried 
^bou t recall to serv*ice, too. 
"We got new addresses from BOB NANOVIC, JOE MEAD, TOM KING, JOHN NOLAN, ROBERT STANTON, and Dr. PAUL KELLY. Milt will have an up-to-date list shortly if you want some addresses. JIM BUCKENMYER seems to be as disorganized as ever — he expected to move the week after he wrote, but didn't know the new address. Lastly, I finally bought a house near the campus (mail still reaches me in the Chemistry Dcpt., ot course). 
"A final reminder: we meet after the Purdue game on October 6, 1962; let's have twice as many come this year." 
1955 
Paul Fullmer 
7344 N. Ridge Ave. 
Chicago, Illinois 
OK, take that ice pack off your balding head 

t
-, . New Year's is long gone! I can't deal with trivia any more according to the instructions from he /Vlumni Ofltcc because the columns must be horter. (They even consider putting "Windy" above as my middle name.) 
So JOE CHALHOUB s^ls the "best. letter ,of the cycle" award for his five page epistle. After graduation Joe joined the Internal Revenue Service and spent five years in South Bend. Recently he was transferred to the national ofHce in Washington, where he works in the wage and excise branch of the technical planning division. Joe married the former Jean ^IcLaughlln of Niles in 1957, and they have a ^\i\ and two boys. Last year Joe started classes at the Washington College of Law of American University. Incidentally, Joe's address is 1517 Crest Road, Silver Spring, Md. 
Joe reports that MIKE CARROLL, who picked up a master's in aero engineering in 1957, was working in East Hartford at last count. Mike had two children the last time Joe saw him. Joe would like to hear from DOUG ^LAGER, BOB 
^ENSO N and BILL O'CONNOR. Joe also reports 
^ha t ED LIEVENS moved from South Bend to Baltimore. 
JOHN SMITH has a neat system. He turns the letter writing over to wife Kathi. She reports that John Is teaching science and math at Carle Place Higli School In Wostbury, N.Y. He picked up his master's degree at Hofstra. In line \vith our Commander-in-Chief's directive, John is keep­ing fit as freshman %%'restling coach. John and Kathi were married in 1959 and they welcomed 
^ohn 11 a year later. They were expecting another ^Pddltlon when Kathi wrote the letter. John and Kathi attended the September wedding of JIM 
DWYER to the former Sandra Locke at Mountain Lakes, N.J. Also attending were DICK NORTON, DAVE MCCARTHY, JO E S^VIFT, and BILL TWOHY. The Smith's address is 5 Foster Lane, Wcslbury, N.Y. 
Received a letter from BILL YARIO. who passed along some information on fellow metallurgists. (I'm really bringing these scientists out into the open!) BOB SWINDEMAN is participating in a technical exchange program with the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. His address is 15 Carovia Ave., Cronulla, Ne\v South ^Vales, Aus­tralia. GREG WASSIL is ^vorklng for AVCO (I don't know what it stands for either!) near Boston and has three children^ My loyal correspondent. Bill, is working for General Electric in its nuclear materials and propulsion operation in Cincinnati. He is the "only one working In a family of five." He also would like JOE TONINI to answer his let­ter ot the "late fifties." 
1 want to assure BUD LaLONDE and NEIL NABER, who both live in Boulder, Colo., that I haven't lost their letters. It seems that both let­ters arrived the day after I mailed the last column. Bud got married in 1958 and has a little daughter. He received his doctorate in business administra­tion from Micliigan State (I guess he wanted to be on the winning side for a change) last year. He currently is teaching marketing at the University of Colorado. AVhllc Bud is teaching, Neil Is out making money at the National State Bank. He married Elizabeth Frederick In 1957, and they recently had their first child, Michael Joseph. Neil won first prize in one of the Denver Club's cxtra\'aganzas, and he and his wife returned to the campus for a football game. 
Bouquets to the Department of Communication Arts (TOM STRITCH, Major Domo) for this report on tlic journalism majors. Here's the code system—* married, •••children. TOM BOSSE (* •*• Is a stockbroker in Cleveland. LARRY BREHL (* *) is assistant editor of "The Westing­house News" and lives in Pittsburgh. ED CLARK (• *•*) Is an advertising copywriter for General Electric at Sclienectedy. DAVE COHEN (* **), as reported last time. Is a human relations officer for the City of Chicago, JOE CONNOLLY (the last of the gay bachelors) is managing editor of Ceramic Publications In Cleveland. 
DICK CONNELLY (* »*) was a reporter for the Memphis Commercial .Appeal, but I believe he has moved to North Plalnficld, N.J. How about a clarification, Dick? TIM DEVEREAUX (• •*) is sales promotion manager for Bankers Life and Casualty Co. CARROLL DOWDEN (*), who was the brain of our little group, has been a financial columnist and assistant editor of the Louisville Courier Journal. According to a later bulletin, Carroll has moved to Fort Smith, Ark. I hope that he isn't one of our lucky reservists. Drop me a line, Carroll. ART EGGERS (•) has a closet of gray flannel suits and puts them to use for D'Arcy Advertising Co. in New York. 
CHARLIE KLEE (* *) still is with Sandoz Pharmaceuticals in Dayton. JOE MADIGAN (*), another competitor of mine, ts' In the public rcla<­
tions end of the Griswold-Eshdinan agency in 
Cleveland. DICK MANNION (another guy wba 
has managed to fight off the women) is managing editor of the Catholic Journalist m New York, DAVE METZ (* •) stiU is pounding out copy for the Eastman Kodak Co. in Rochester. HAKKY NIEKUNN (• ••) who must be a frustrated cop. is a supervisor for Allstate in Valley Forge, Pa. TOM QUINN (who moves so fast that no Wfnnan could keep up with him) continues to flit around 
the islands as editor of Pacific Stars & Stripes. 
PAT SHEEHAN (* *•), another member of the ^Vindy City dan does a lot of writing for ^iridi-American Insurance Co. JIM SHERER has C.S.C. after his name these days and is studying at Holy Cross College in Washington. JIM SIEGER (no time for women while he was in HoUy^vood!) is back East as continuity director of KDKA in Pittsburgh. MIKE WARD (* **») is atteni^g law school while working with a public relations agency In Chicago. TOM WELLY (• ••**) a getting fat as assistant sales manager of Owens* Corning Fiberglass Corp. in Toledo. BOB ZEIS (* *«***)^ who just exhausted my supply of asterisks, is assistant personnel director of the Denver Post. 
Our class seems to have a stranglehold on Chi­cago's high school football championship. JOE SASSANO'S Weber team won a thriller in Soldier's Field this past year after TOM CAREY and his Mount Carmel did the same in the 1960 game with the public league champ. JACK STEPHENS, \«ho captained the Irish cage team and played some good ball for the St. Louis Hawks, is assistant basketball coacli at Chicago's Klount Carmel High School. DAN SHANNON, who attended Mount Carmel vvith Carey and Stephens, recently wel­comed his fifth cliild. 
FRANK LOLLI, who decided to forego his Marine career for the real estate business, is back In Chicago. Frank reports that he saw quite a few classmates on the campus after a football game. GAVIN KING is a lawyer in Tulsa. An­other law>-er is MIKE HAGGERTY of Detroit. JOE .McGRAW also is an attorney in Tulsa and specializes In real estate. Big TOM MURRAY is wowing the women u-ith his dulcet tones over a Toledo radio station. All of you ^Visconsin resi­dents who have been ducking a low-flying North Central plane will be glad (?) to kumv that PAT O'DONNELL is the pilot. 
JIM GRIFFIN and wife^ Bunni, had a bouncing baby boy, Martin, last fall. ED KELLY, who has two girls, is a chemicals salesman In the Chicago area. JOHN RYAN, who usually is at­tending to sick people, was knocked down himself but now is back in action. JIM IRWIN rcccivtd the top grade in the recent Ohio bar examinatioo. a real feather in his cap. Jim now is teaching law at Northwestern. He and his wife have a boy and a girl. After four little girls, JACK GITS finally got a baby boy. 
I saw ED FOX, and the "Ox" has fallen in love with Los .\ngeles. He expects to stay there 
EASTERN INDIANA alumni taking part in a rally at Muncic included 
(from left) Club President Bill Craig, Chairman John Hyncs, guest Jack Elder, and Vice-President Bill Cronin. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1962 45 
willi llic Internal Revxnuc Service for at least two more years. FRED ECKART, my old buddy on the Scliolastic, has decided to stick with the Na\-y. Currently he is a recruiting officer at Jacksonville, Fla. Hey, BILL McLAIN, did you really swing that ski tnp in Europe? 
MIKE WARD passed along the following infor­mation. JOE HA^'DEN, who has two children, is a salesman in Philadelphia. BILL .ARNOLD is a law\er in Sterling. 111. He has one child. Got a post card from AL CO\VLES in Hawaii where he and his wife, Betty, were living it up on the beach. What did you do, AI, rob a bank? 
BILL WALSH writes to say that he is scr\ing as aide to Rear Admiral William A. Dolan at Pugct Sound Nav'al Shipvard. His address is Lt. Wm. A. Walsh, U.S.N., Qt«. 133, PSNS, Bremen-ton, Wash. Bill married Joan Kennedy and they have three cliildrcn. Bill is career Na\-\- along with JIM PHILLIPS and PAUL KRIE.VKE. Bill re­ports that ROD CVRIER married Xanc\- Karcher last September. Rod works for A. O. Smith in Kankakee. Bill would like to hear from JIM PHILLIPS and JOE SMITH. 
Our world traveler, W.ALT CLE.MEXS, reports in from the Umveisity of California at Santa Bar­bara. He is teaching there and is associate editor of a book on Soviet foreign relations. Walt at­tended Moscow University in 1958-59. During 1959­60 he did research on disarmament at Stanford and Columbia. Walt married the former Diane Shaver of Cincinnati, and the\' have a baby girl, who was bom in Honolulu while Walt was chairman of the language department at a prep school. He got his Ph.D. in international and Soviet affairs from Columbia in 1961. 
Please remember TOM RON!E in your prayers. He died Xov. 19. Also our condolences to TOM DORWIN, whose brother. Jim. was killed in a snow a\'alanche. 
From the Alumni Office: 

Erstwhile classmate P.AUL FIGEL left the Daven­port, Iowa, office of National Life Insurance Co. of Vermont to attend a course in the home office, Montpelier, Vt. Paul is associated with the Daven­port general agent, his brother DON FIGEL, '42. Their father is EDWARD FIGEL, 'II. 
WILBUR VAN SCOIK made C.P.A. and is now liWng at 4918 To\%Ti-Countr>' Blvd., Tampa 3, Fla. Ph.D. EMIL B.ANAS is now senior project ph>-si­cist at American Oil's Wliiting researcli labs. He's also made the American Catholic Who's ^\^lo. 
ROBERT T. BARBOUR, JR., has moved from Kansas City to 20798 Erie Road, Rocky River 16, O. Bob is now with C.I.T. Corp. in Cleveland. His father bought his K.C. home and is now living there. 
-Another erstwhile classmate, HAROLD RAY­MOND THIELEN, has possibly resigned as Broth­er Harold, since he's listed as haxing received an M..A. from 'Western Reserve. Other academic news from Ohio has ELLIS A. JOSEPH of Windsor, N.C., named an instructor at the University of Dayton. With an M.A. in '56. Ellis is now an N.D. doctoral candidate. 
TOM CAREY'S successor as head football coach at Chicago's Mount Carmel High is GEORGE WILSON, '56, while JACK (JUTCIOR) STEPHENS is assistant basketball coacli. Jack is a Mount Cannel grad, an .-UI-American as captain of the '55 Irish, drafted by the St. Louis Hawks and named most x-aluable player in the Globetrotter-All Star Basketball series. 
1956 
John P. Deasy 5697 N. Lincoln Ave Chicago 45, Illtnois 

From the Alumni Office: GENE O'CONNOR, sa>-s Buffalo's Catholic Union and Eclio, is the only football coach who ever resigned while his team was undefeated and ap­parently headed for a league championship, ^^1len Gene resigned as Bishop Timon High's gridiron mentor to accept an appointment as assistant U.S. attorney', say's sports writer Ed Fcinen, "he left an indelible mark en the sport." His success began when an injury- forced him to coacli interhall at N.D., but football was always secondary to Iits legal ambitions. Gene's 15-year-oId brotlier Joe started playing for Bishop Timon just as he left. 
.\notIicr classmate, GEORGE WILSON, has put in his first season as head football coach of Chicago's Mount Carmcl Hi^, succeeding TOM CAREY, *55. 
And another classmate was lured to the law. RICHARD D. DOYLE of South Bend has become an associate in law practice with the firm of Jones, Obencliain, Johnson, Ford & Pankow. He has an 
LL.B. from DcPauI in Chicago and belongs to both the Illinois and Indiana Bars. Dick is married to the former Nancy Berg, and the Doyles have five rJiildren. 
A Ph.D. classmate, DR. J. FR.\NK GILLESPIE, has been promoted from research chemist to super­visor of monomer research for Crown Zellcrbacli's central research division in Camas, Wash. Frank came to N.D. from the U. of Alberta, went on to Chicago for po&t-doctoral work. And a prc-med of the class, now DR. EDWARD J. YAROLIN. has gone into general practice and obstetrics on the West Coast. He's announced that his office is located in the Vallcv Medical Center, Los Gatos, Calif. 

From Prof. THO.M.^S STRFFCH and the depart­ment of communication arts comes this lowdown on the Joumalbts. Tliose marked (*) are married, and the number designates children. JOHN ADAMS is in marketing rcscarcli for N.W. Aver & Son ad­vertising, Philadelphia, Pa.; ERWIN ALFONSUS (*I) advertising mgr.. Black's, Waterloo, Iowa; TOM BENNETT (*I) assistant promotion mgr., BufTalo (N.Y.) Courier-Express; JOHN BOYLE (•2) 
publications editor. Defense Depl., Washington, D.C.; JIM CONERTY (*6) sales mgr., Indiana Bell Telephone, South Bend; JI.M CRE.MINS (*!) time salesman, JefTerson Standard Broadcasting Co., WBT. Charlotte, N.C.; DAVE D.WIN {*3) administrative ass't, militarv prod, div., Bauscli & Lomb, Inc., Rochester, N.Y.; FRED DEVORE, JR. {*) 1st Ilcut., USAF (navigator, C-130 transport), Scwart AFB, Tcnn.; CHRIS ECKL (•2) reporter, Florence (Ala.) Times; BOB FLETCHER (•) teacher, Kemble School, Utica, N.Y.; JOHN GUEGUEN, grad stu­dent, political science, U. of Chicago; WM. JACK­M.-\N, publications editor, Raytheon Co., Marlboro, Mass.; ED JOYCE (*1) public relations, Skil Corp. of Chicago; CURT M.ATTHEWS (*2) ass't in­formation officer, U.S. Army (Germany); ROBERT 
J. MCDONALD , reporter, New York Daily News; P.ATRICK MCNULT\*, countv editor, .\shland (O.) Times-Gazette; JOHN MULLIN ('1) salesman, Frcncli-Bray Portage Co., Baltimore, Md.; GERARD POTTEB.\UM (•2) sales promotion & production mgr., Fides Publishers, South Bend; JAMES RILEY. salesman. Wisconsin Motor Corp., Milwaukee; BOB RUHL ('l) sports writer, St. Louis (Mo.) Post-Dispatdi; and GERALD TRr\FFia\NDA (*1) free lance adv. & photography, Chatsworth, Calif. No report from R. J. BYTNER. J. A. a\NNA, P. J. QVMPBELL, P. H. DE.MBINSKI, T. S. QUINN. 
1957 
:V-> Donald J. Barr 
463 Briar Place 
Chicago 14, Illinois 
Jack E. Casey Chicago Show Priming Co. 555 W. Fifth Ave New York 17, N. Y. 

GEORGE GRABLE and JOHN BARANY have been cliosen as Co-Chairmen for our first reunion. Tliey will be assisted by approximately 30 *'Arca Chairmen." Tliese Area Chairmen will work with the Co-Chairmcn, class officers, and Alumni office in org^uiizing what we hope uill be the most successful reunion Notre Dame has witnessed to date. Please address any questions to the officers listed above or the following: GEORGE GRABLE, Love, Gross, Corman & Dee, 1 N. La Salle Street, Chicago 2, Illinois; or JOHN BARANY, 2115 High 
Street, South Bend 14, Indiana. | ^ 
We ask each classmate or his parents to send all*^ 

address changes to the Alumni Office at N.D. 
BOB MORAN received his M.D. at the U. of 

Buffalo last June. Bob is now married. lives in 
Washington, t).C., and is doing his Internship at 
Georgetown Hospital. 
Three of our men are with Conn. Gen. Life Ins., 

according to the latest word from LEON CLOUGH. 
Leon is in Bloomficld, Conn., is married and has 
a three-vcar-old girl and twins just over a year old. 
TOM SHEHAN is in Ralwgh, N.C., and BILL 
DAVIES is in Buffalo, N.Y. Tliey are both group 
representatives. 
FRANK ATKINSON was recalled in October to 

Fort Bragg for Army active duty. Frank Jr. (V/z 
years old) and JuUc are living in Penn. with her,^ 
family. ^ 
ED HEALY wrote that he and wife Pat arc 

living in Dallas. Ed is with Rockwell Manufacturing. 
Ed and Pat have one girl, and are expecting an 
addition soon. 
PAT CONWAY writes that he has seen TOM 

"ACE" BRENNAN, TERRY NIEULONDT, JACK 
SOUCEY and DON RENIER in the Los Angeles 
area recently. He asks what has happened to JIM 
KIEWUS? 
ROGER DALY reports that he and BOB MAY 

are holding down activities in Rochester, Minn. 
JOHN "ALL AMERICAN" SMYTH is at St. 

Mary of the Lake Seminary in Mundelein, Illinois, 
and will be ordained in June. We all \rish John 
the best as it fits him so well. Let's hope we can ^ 
get him to say our first Class Reunion Slass. W 
JIM MILOTA is in Inglewood, Calif. DAVE 

THOMPSON sent news about a few of the boys. 
Dave is in St. Joseph, Mo., and is a reporter for 
the St. Joseph News-Press. ART KIDDOO is also 
In St. Joseph with Western Chemical Co., is 
married and has a son. JOHN GLENSKI lives in 
Gladstone, Mo., and works for Colgate in Kansas 
City. John and his wife have three children. 
TOM PALIGANOFF lives in Indianapolis, is 

married, has two children and expecting a third 
soon. CASEY, BARR, .McMEEL, BLAKESLEE, 
HENNESSEY, etc., TAKE NOTE, you bachelors. 
TO.M McNULTY is married, has two cliildrcn 

and lives in Chicago. Tom sells pharmaceutical 
supplies. 
ED DEAN is now married after going to Law 

Scltool. ^ 
From the Alumni Office: Since the 1957 Reunion Roster managed to botcli up both his name and his address in two tries, with sucli x^arlatlons as **Rafi'clte" and a fictitious street, we report that PETER M. R^VFFETTO lives at 77 Lilyan Street, Waldwick, N.J. Pete is understandably incensed, since a long letter from his wife to the missing PAT WILLLAMSON got lost sometvhcrc between the Halls of Montezuma nnd the Shores of Tripoli, giving her a very bad impreslon of N.D. alumni communication. Here, for the record, is a brief recapitulation on the KafTettos. On May 16, 1959, Pete married Carol^ Collins of RIdgewood, N.J., and Ladycliff CoIIegt^ '.*>8. Inducted into the Army for two years, he ser\-cd in the Washington, D.C., area, where daugh* ler Kathryn was bom June 28, I960. Discliargcd last May, he returned to prc-scrvice employment with a CPA firm in New York City. A son, Paul Joseph, was bom to Pete and Carol last .\ugust 26. 
Pete and others iiavc protested the traditional "stag" atmosphere of N.D. reunions and have suggested welcoming "'alum-wives." Unfortunately neither N.D. facilities nor the alumni majority favor the "family reunion" concept of the Ixy League. Campus residence and campus events seem essential, and neither arc adequte for the ladies or children. Officers GEORGE STRAKE, JACK CASEY and DON B.\RR arc investigating separate central residence for wives at St. Mary's or a nearby motel, which might be arranged by local operators JOHN BARANY and GEORGE GROBLE, but the wives could not participate in the campus program otfih golf, parties, etc. If a poll indicated enough wiveJW' were interested, perhaps a volunteer committee of alum-wives could arrange a separate program of parties, tours, bridge, sports, movies, etc., for the gals and children. 
Army Sp.-4 GERALD BECHERT, formerly of Indianapolis, was recalled with the 333rd Engineers to Fort Rucker, Ala. He left a job at Chase Brass & Copper Co., Ann Arbor, Mich. Army 1st Lt. FRANK LUTZ, a DDS from Georgetown, left wife Antoinette last fall to train at the medical field service school, Brooke Army Medical Center, Por A Sam Houston, Tex., assigned as a dentist there. 
46 Notre Dame AlumnuSj February-March, 1962 
A third soldier PAUL HORNUNG, started at Ft. 
• Riley, Kansas, last November in the middle o[ the Green Bay Packer football season, but it didn't keep the back-of-all-trades from consolidating Iiis position as N.F.L. scoring whiz or the Packers from winning the title. 
From ^^ausb3cllstrassc 9, Muenster (Westf.), Germany, comes word that THOMAS J. SCHRIBER is spending the 1961-62 at the University of Mncnster as a Fulbriglit scholar. He is associated with Dr. Ewald Wicke, a leading European researcher in the field of Heterogeneous catalysis, and he'll participate in seminars at the Institute of Physical Chemistr>'. JAMES V. HOLLERAN of Detroit and formerly of Ashland, Pa., was named an instructor in English at the university of that name, with degrees from St. Joseph's College (Pa.) and L.S.U. besides his 
Aniaster's with the Class. Dr. Holleran is married to the former Elizabeth Ann Shecler of Abilene,, Tex. ROBERT F. SASSEEN is an instructor in political science at Marquette, now jn his second year. He was slated for a Ph.D. from the U. ol Chicago in December. 
DR. JAMES D. EGGERS will complete his intern­ship at Cook County Hospital, Chicago, in July and will enter a residency In obstetrics and gynecology at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, 
D.C. Jim joined the ranks of the married last Sept. 9 with Joan Marie Haggarly of Chicago, and they now live at 2055 Jarvis Ave., Chicago 25. He got his Af.D. at Loyola's Strilcli Scliool of ^tcdicine. In his class were BOB DESMOND, TOM O'.MAL­LEY, JIM QUINN, DON SCHR.ANDT and JI.M 
ARICH. 
^ GERALD E. ^fcNERNY of Detroit wrote to inform us that he has accepted an assignment with Catholic Relief Services, NCWC. His training period ended in October and he was to depart from N.Y. immeditely for Africa. He was lo receive his .Tssignment to a specific country* on arrival, distribut­ing food, clothing and medical supplies in under­developed areas. 
JOEL R. LIVLNGSTON, JR., has joined the staff of the chemicals researcli division of Esso Research & Engineering Co., research afiiliatc of Standard Oil of New Jersey. Joel lives at 949 Summit Ave, Westfield, N.J., and works at the lab in Linden. He got his M.S. in Clicmistr>- from the 
U. of Michigan in 1959 and hopes to get his Ph.D. from N.D. this year. CHARLES N. KOEHLER is working with Ballard 
A ^ Mayfield Consulting Engineers in Canton, O., and <*.Npecting a second child soon. 
JA.MES F. WEBER, .-\B '57, is police reporting for the Canton Reposltorj- ne\vspaper, married now and a new father. Daughter Julie Anne was born last .Aug. 25. Jamie received a birth announcement from the WILLLVM P. RYDERS. Postmarked \^rginia, the note said it was a girl but there was no return address. He also saw JOHN McMEEL in the Repository oltice, where John showed up on a sales trip. Heard that JACK KING, '58, has been transferred by Weir Steel Co. to their new plant near Gary. Jamie saw in the newspaper where HUGH B. O'bONNELL of .Mansfield, O., was admitted to the bar (law that is) after passing the 
B-jcani in Columbus last August. 
1958 
Arthur L, Koule, Jr. 1709 Indiana Avenue 
LaPorte, Indiana 

I
Greetings classmates, one and all. Your secretary is happy to report a very satisfactory" response to his last request for news, with the result that we are able to present a vcr>' respectable selection for 'his issue. Further good news is prouded by the editor of the ALUMNUS in his announcement of the plan to increase the number of issues per year. Tliis should enable us to supply you with much fresher news items, since the lime lag between the composition of these columns and their actual publi­cation will be decreased. i\s the bard would say, **'Tis a consummation devoutly to be wished.** 
REUNION REPORT As you know from previous announcements in this 

^lumn , a CLASS OF '58 REUNIO.V was held in 
^!>clobcr following the Northwestern game. It was 
GLEE CLUB REUNION at the home of Prof. Daniel Pcdtke ^vas organized pri­marily by these alumni and wives: (L-r.) Jack Janowski, Jackie Etling, William Sahm, Ellie Basgall, and Jim Etling. Partial face in foreground belongs to Reva Sahm, Bill's wife. 
an unqualified success, both from the standpoints 
of attendance and enjo\-ability. If you missed it, we 
offer our commiseration and strongly advise that 
you attend next year. Watch for announcements of 
future events in this column. 
A partial list of those in attendance follows: BILL .MCDONALD, LEE DOROSY, DICK RIEGEL, JLM McNA.MAR.\, DAN L.\.MONT, E.MMET WHALEN, MURR.VY BROWN, TOM M.\XWELL, DAVE HOLTHOUSE, JOE KNOTT, BOB Mc-GOVERN, AL ALLEN, DAN"^ .\L\NDLEHR, JLM REIDY, HANK PR.\SK, JACK MULVIHILL. PHIL F1T2PATRICK, JLM ENGLEHART, CHARLIE KITZ, BILL DORENBUSCH, PHIL PHILBIX, L.\RRY PASSARELLrX, DICK MEYER, FRANK MOR.\N, JERRY BURKE, BOB KIEP, JOHN DUNN, DICK BIES, BILL SaVNLON, FRANK SMURLO, CLEM AITA, FR^VNK HERIGSTAD, JOHN MADDE.N% D.WE IMMO­NEN, ROGER TOUG.AS, GEORGE OESS, iVNDY CLARK, GENE SALEM, BOB PARNELL, JACK RILEY, KEN HEIXE.M.\NN, JLM LAW, JIM GOE­THALS, JLM MARSTON. DICK PHELAN, MIKE a\RR, JOHN KLEMMER, LEE HINDERSCHEID, FR.\NK BISCHOF, DICK WALTZ, CHET R.VYMO, LARRY SHE.\ROX, JACK REVORD, BILL SHEEHAN, JOHN LIESKE, BOB LOEF­FLER, JOHN O'CONNOR, JOE ROMEO, HOOT WALSH, JACK CRILLY, TIM MURTAUGH, MIKE FOGART\', RUSS HOPKINS, D.AN KAVAN.VUGH, BOB MURPHY, and DON .MUSICH. 
.•\s you might expect, we were able to garner quite a bit of news at the reunion, and here it is. DICK RIEGEL was released by the Army in Janu­ary', 1961, and is now working for Remington Rand Uni\-ac in St. Paul. Dick is still unmarried and "fighting to stay single." GEP DURENBERGER is currently traveling in Europe. Dick requests that we print his query as to "Where is LOU KONO­WAL?" 
CHARLIE KEITZ graduated from Carnegie Tech in 1960 with BL.AISDEL RE^VRDON (who is shortly to be married). - Charles look a degree In Industrial Administration (Master's). He Is mar­ried and has one daughter, Alicia, with another expected soon. Charlie is working for Great Lakes Steel in Detroit. HANK DE CVLUWE is still in the Air Force; he is married and lias two daughters. GEORGE GLxVSGOW, his wife and two daughters now live in Newark, Ohio. CHARLIE AHERN is in Detroit, where he is employed by Bendix. 
a\R L BRUECKNER was recently called back into the /Vrmy. FR^\NK HERIGSTAD is associated with the Federal Reser\'c Bank in Dallas as an executive trainee. FILVNK SMURLO is an admin­istrative assistant with the National Bank and Trust Company of some unnamed city (whoever siipplted this news failed to specify). CLE.M AITA, the recipient of a master's degree from Northwestern, is now tcacliing in Northfield, 111. BOB ANSPACH, who received his law degree from the U. of Cali­fornia recently, has welcomed his second daughter. 
JOHN O'CONNOR was solemnly engaged in the 
Notre 

Log Chapel on November 25 last. John is teaching math in WatervHet, Mich., and is coaching junior high football and basketball. JOE ROMEO re­ported the following information. He is in his final year at Johns Hopkins mcd school and plans to marry in February or March. JOHN KENNEDY is similarly situated at Georgetown and doing ex­ceptionally well as expected. MARK BRADLEY will graduate from the U. of Maryland mcd school in June. BERNIE McGOW.ATJ, recently married, is also finbhing up at Hopliins. 
The plaintive wail of jVNDY CLARK was heard in approximately the following terms, *'Help, I've been recalled." Before being requested to report for further military duty, Andy had been working for Clark Transport In Minneapolis. He was mar­ried in the fall of 1S60 after ha-.-ing received a master's from Indiana. PAT SULLIVAN, at time of writing, was awaiting assignment after ha\*ing been accepted in the Peace Carps. Fat has pre­riously spent two years as a lay worker In the Bengal Missions and one year In military duty with Uncle Sam. 
J. E. EN'GLEH.-\RT, his wife Joan, and offspring Dan and Julie arc living In Detroit, where J. E. is with Edison. In his spare time ^Ir. Englehart Is attending the U. of Detroit, seeking his M.B.A. KEVIN CONNELLY, after Iiavlng a high old time with the Na\-j% is now doing the same thing at the Notre Dame Law School. ROGER KILEY Is now fl>^ng Navy Iiellcoplers In the Mediterranean (correction—over the Mediterranean) after return­ing from duty In the Congo. 
From the Land of Lincoln comes the following by way of JIM AL\RSTON. BOB SLOT.A, DICK PHELAN, and JOHN DUNN passed the Illinois bar exam. Dick and John were recently engaged (Dick to Miss Carol Heller, John to Miss Barbara Burke) and Bob is now married to the former Mbs Dianna Deodata from Philadelphia. 
Lr\RRY SHEARON and bride Kathleen (Bran­des) attended the reunion on their honeymoon. Larr>- works for Minneapolis Honey^vell. In South Bend the Shearons visited the CHET R.AYMO family 
— Chet and his wife and newlv arrived son. Daniel Joseph. WALT DONNELLY is now the father of three daughters, is living In New England, and is working for California Packing Company. DICK BIES is now spending a three-year term with the Air Force Judge Advocate General Corps (legal corps) assisting the electronics system division of the Air Force Systems Command In Bedford, Mass. 
MIKE CARR recently returned from a delayed hone>'moon trip to Bermuda. He is now located in Buffalo, N.Y., where he is working for Johns Manrille. Mike reports that JOHN G.AGLL\R. DINT is in Philadelphia with U.S. Rubber. Mr. and Mrs. GENE S.ALEM now have two daughters, Gina Marie and Shcr\'l .Ann. They are living in .Akron where Gene Is in law practice with CHARLEY REY.M.ANN. The Reymanns arc ex­pecting their second child — they now have one daughter, Beth. 
TOM and .Anne MAXWELL are still living in Huntington, W. Va., and have another daughter, Mary Elizabeth, born last July. BOB WILLLAM­SON is in the seminary in Rochester, N.Y. He will be ordained next summer. 
JIM REIDY, currently In giad school at N.D., is engaged lo Miss Dorothy liaas of Tulsa. A solemn engagement ceremony was performed in the Log Chapel in February. I95I, by FATHER TOM BRENN^VN. Jim will be wed Marcli 3, 1962, in Tulsa. JOE BREIDENSTEIN is In the oil busi­ness in Blount Pleasant, ^lich. His company Is the Master's Oil Co. More bar exam results — DON CORBETT and JOHN GLAVIN recently passed in New York and are wor!;ing in Rocliester. 
BILL MCDONALD is studying for a Ph.D. at the U. of Illinois. FR.ANK MORAN is with UARCO Business Forms In Jackson, Mich. He is the proud parent of Z'A cliildren. JOE OERRICO is also a parent — two children. He Is operating his own insurance and brokerage ofiice in New York. BOB FARRELL Is abo living In New York and is expecting the third of his offspring. 
BOB McGOVERN, wife Delorb, and three sons, Michael, Thomas, and Kevin, are living in South Bend, where Bob is teaching on the staff of the Cline School for retarded children. FR.ANK BISCHOF, since hb dbchargc from the Army, has been with the General Graphics Co. of Chicago, in the printing field. RUSS HOPKINS is seeking a master's degree in marketing at Michigan State. 
MURRAY BROWN b an institutional salesman for Hallgartcn & Co. in New York; he is able to summer at Cape Cod and spend some time doing the "Twbl" at the Peppermint Lounge. Murray reports that BILL BOURNE b with Homblower 
Dame Alumnus, February-March, 2962 
& Weeks in New York, and that TIM HARRIGAN is with A & P in the same area. 
KEN HEINEMANN and JIM LAW journc>-ed together to South Bend \vith tlicir ^vives from Kokomo, Ind. Ken is with Deico Radio of Gen­eral Motors, and Jim is employed by the Pack­aging Corp. of America. JOHN LIESKE is now in E\-anston, III. He sees that evcrjthing is under control at United States Gj-psum Co. in Chicago, thereby bringing home the bacon for his growing family of V/t children. 
JOHN MADDEN was married in August of 1958 and now has two sons, Mike and John. John and his wife Jolene live in Park Forest, 111., and John works for I.B.M- JACK MULVIHILL has been \rith International Paper Co. for over a year now and is living in Dayton. DICK WALTZ is mar­ried to the former Be\erly .Ann Fratlura of Akron. They now have t^vo boys and are living in Barber-ton. Ohio. Dick completed his grad work at N.D. in Januar>' of 1960, and is employed by Babcock and Wilcox Co. in Barberton. 
Tliat takes care of the news from the reunion. I hope you will e.tcuse tlic rather abrupt style of reporting; we have definite space limitations and therefore I am making an attempt to compress our news as much as possible, in order that we might 
- attain a mx'cimum neu-s content with a minimum of strain on the editor*s ulcers. 
FROM THE MAILBAG 

Tlic following news, again condensed for the reasons above stated, is the courtesy of those kind souls who took the time to jot down a fc\*- lines for tlie benefit of their more recalcitrant classmates. BILL STURGIS wrote from Fort Campbell, Ky., where he was spending two weeks in training, to inform us that he has been transferred to Knox­\illc, Tenn., by his employer, ESSO. Bill was married last August, to the former Xancy Saunders of Paducali, Ky. 
Mrs. TIM RICE u-ritcs from Geneva, N.Y., to tell us that her hubby is keeping busy in two enterprises, one a nursery business and the other a laundry and dry cleaning establishment. The Rices now have a daughter, Tracj- Elizabeth, bom November 6, 1961. Likewise, Mrs. TONY FILOSA wrote on bdialf of her husband who »s working as an accountant for Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co. in Chicago. Tlic Filosa's fourth cliild and third son, Matthe%*- Joseph, arrived in June of 1961. 
In November, an announcement arrived from Rome informing us Uiat JOSEPH LEXGERMANN, LAWRENCE HENRY, JERO.ME ESPER, DAVID SHERRER, JAMES DENN, and J.AMES SCHULTZ, all C.S.C. members of the Class of '58, were ordained to the priesthood on December 3, 1961, in ceremonies held in Rome. 
BOB THOMPSON writes that he now b the father of a daughter, Mar>- Ann, as well as of two older sons. The Tliompsons are living in Indianapolis, where Bob is with I.B.M. in the final stage of a sales training program. Bob re­cently ran Into DREW AMAN, a reccni graduatr of Georgetown law school, AL FLORIN, the father of two younger Florins, and DAN IRWIN, father of two daughters. 
The recently called-up Red Arrow Division of the Wisconsin National Guard lists in its ranks the name of JOHN RIPPEY, previously the Midwest correspondent for Topics Publishing Co., a pharma­ceutical trade publisher. Pat reported that he recently encountered JAY SENNOT and P.AT HEFFERNAN m Cliicago. 
Mrs. \TNCE SULLI\^AN sent us a card from Chicago, reporting the arrival of number-one son, Kevin Quinlan Sullivan, born June 25, 1961. Vincc is now working in Chicago as the regional office manager for Oivcns-Illinois Glass Co. BOB TAY­LOR'S wife also came to our aid to report an addition to the Taylor Iiousehold — namely Lynn Marie, bom November 7, I96I. Bob was a whole­sale representative for llic Vicks Division of llie Vick Chemical Co. for two years but Jias now joined the Frigidair* Sales Corp. of Michigan. The Taylors now reside in Detroit. WARREN GINDA and wife Ann have been living in Kansas City, Mo., since their marriage jn 1958. Warren was with Proctor & Gamble until being recalled to duty in the Air Force last October. In September of 1960 the third member of the family, Mark Stanley, made his appearance. 
An announcement from Detroit relates that STAN ^VEGRZYNOWICZ and the former Norma Biclski were married on Thanks^ring Day. Stan Is presently teaching and coacliing at Detroit Cathe­dral High. GEORGE VAN KULA and PAUL WILSON attended the -wedding. George is with 
48 Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March^ 
ROCKNE NIGHT principals in Chicago, 
(from left) Hcartlcy "Hunk" Anderson, 
Jimmy Crowley, and Norman "Jack" 
Barry aiv-ardcd a battery of trophies in 
a big December ceremony. 
the Xav\- in Benton Harbor. Mich., and Paul is in the furniture business. 
BILL ROBI writes from San Francisco where he is in the loan department of the Crocker Angelo X'ational Bank. His second son. Paul Joseph, was born on August 17, 1961. Bill also reports the following: BILL REISERT recently left the Ma­rines; BILL KANTOR is vvorking in Carnegie, Pa.; MIKE HERB is studying law at Georgetown; PICK MERZ is in the seminarv in Sheridan, Ore. Bill savs hello to CARL HEBERT, BILL OWENS, and GERRY GERAMI. 
DOUG MITCHELL has a grant from the N.S.F. to attend the Winter Institute of Quantum Chem­istry' and Solid State Physics at the U. of Florida. After the four-week course he will spend two weeks in research at Sanibel Island in the Gulf of Mexico. ED lANNI writes from Broadwelt, III,, where he is the chief administrator of the Broad­wcll Elementary District. He has held his present position for the past three years. Next summer Ed hopes to receive his master's degree in education from Illinois State Normal U., as will JACK DEE, who is tcacliing in the elementar\- scliools of Elk­hart, III. JOHN HARVEY, a resident of Geneva, N.Y., is the proud father of one daughter, Linda Beth, and is employed at White and Floyd, archi­tects and engineers, of Geneva. 
A letter from JIM STEINTRAGER reports that Jim is now teaching government at Ix}uisiana State. He received his ^LA, from the U. of Chicago in 1960 and is presently completing work toward his Pii.D. from the same institution. Jim was married September 17, 1960, to Marianne O'Neill. Last summer Jim spent nearly a month in the hospital recuperating from a kidney operation, thus slowing down his academic work. Recently the Stein­tragcrs welcomed the arrival of their first daughter, Kirstcn Marianne. 
WALT SMYTHE sends us news from Phoenix, 

•Ariz-, where he is with the General Electric Com­puter Department's PhocnLx Customer Education Center, as an instructor in computer programing. Walt also sends stork-type news of Walter III, July of 1959), Cynthia Louise (Fcbruarv', 19GI) and a third still-expcctcd arrival. Walt has the following news on other classmates: JOHX BERCHE.M has been released from the Xavy and is now in law school. MIKE LEYDON is now married and is working as a real estate appraiser while attending law school at night. CHUCK STEIN is presently in Canton, O. JOHN RILEY is in the investment line and recently visited Chtcago on a business trip. D.AN McINERN*Y is also in the investment business. GENE KERVTN and wife Frances re­cently played host to Walt in Dallas. While in that city Walt learned that VIC CLESI is still energetically involved in the restaurant business. ED BAUER is with American Airlines In Chicago. 
2962 
WILLIE KILBOURNE is now married and rccentl 
became the father of Bill, Jr. GARY COOPEF 
and his wife are in Hawaii where Gary is stationcc 
with the Marines. Walt asks us to inquire as ii 
the whereabouts of DICK KOHLER. 
A note from Miht'aukee indicates that SAN' 

NIGRO has received his M.D. and is now oi 
internship at Milwaukee County Hospital. Hv 
futiu'c plans involve the nuclear submarine mcdi 
cine division of the X'avy. JIM RASCHID is nov 
in his final year at Loyola Med School in Chicago 
Sam would like information on the other "pre 
mcds" from our class at N.D. 
DALE LEROUX, after spending six month; with the Army at Ft. Knox, Ky., is now an ac countant with Owens-Illinois Glass Co. in Toledo where he has been since Augtist, 1959. Dale, a; previouslv reported, v*-as married last July in Buf falo, N.Y., to Mary Jo Alienburg. JOHN BER! NARD and JACK CARNEY served as ushers ai the wedding. 
PAT McCULLOUGH sends news from Chicago where he is employed as advertising promotioi manager for Licon. Pat lives on Chicago's Xorllr west side, and his family now consists of ^fichac! (2 years) and Kathleen (6 months). He graduatet from Northwestem's scliool of journalism in 1960 JOHN DONAHUE and his wife became the par cuts of a son last August. BRUCE .MALEC ha: his own real estate agency and he and his wif( Rose, are now living in Chicago, FRrXNK BRIOD\ is with Price-Waleriiouse and TOM MAZUR i-with Inland Steel after receiving his M.B.A. from Wharton School of Business in 1960. 
Tliat takes care of the news for now; thanki. i^ all lo\-al contributors. 
From tiie Alumni Office: 
STEVE PIACSEK of South Bend got his .\I.S, in ph>*5ics from ^f.I.T. last fall, his thesis topic being "Electron Distribution Function Behind Strong Shock Waves in Weakly Ionized Gases," no less. JAMES BEHME, fresh from three years in ihr Marine Corps, recently joined The Trane Co. manufacturing engineering department at the La-Cross, Wis., headquarters. Trane makes equipment for air conditioning, heating, ventilating, etc ROBERT DISTEL, a G.E. engineer at the Knolls Atomic Power Lab, Schenectady, N.Y., got his ME master's in a joint KAPL-R.P.I, program. Armv 1st Lt. JOSEPH BUMBLEBURG finished an officer orientation course at Ft. Bcnning, Ga., Infantr^ School last November. 
JOHN F. DUNN is a patent searcher in research and development for American Oil Co. at the Chicago general offices. Jolin got his Notre Dame 
LL.B.
 in 1961. JERRY REEDY is with the Better Homes & Gardens circulation department of Mere­dith Publishing Co., Des Moines, Iowa, having re­ceived an M.A. from the U. of South Dakota, where he was a grad assistant instructor. Before joining Meredith he was an area editor for the Red Wing (Minn.) Daily Republican Eagle. BOB WILLIAMSON is at St. John Viannc^- Seminar^-, East Aurora, X^.Y., and will be ordained in Marcli. .MIKE SCANLON is a general assignment reporter: with the Indianapolis Star, while BOB EARLY h:^ been transferred from the Star to the Arizona Republic in Scottsdale, Ariz. 

J.
 PAT ROGERS is now executive director of the Sioux Falls, S.D,, Industrial and Development Foundation. Formerly associated with his father in Rogers Realty & Insurance, Pat is a director, among many organizations, of the South Dakota Slultiple Sclerosis Society and headed the 1961 M.S. fund drive in Minnehaha County. THOMAS M. CLUSSE­RATH, who got a law degree In 1961, has been appointed an attorney-financial analyst with the U.S. Securities and Excliangc Commission. On sdiolar­ship in the Law ScIiool, Tom got the SEC job in the Civil Scr\icc "Honors Program." TOM NE­VILLE, on the sales staff of the Los Angeles Times, may have weathered the recent shakeup after the folding of the L.A. Mirror, having taken a special management training course last summer. JAMES 

R.
 MALONE has an M.S. in fuel technology- fronv Pcnn. State. H 


Two doctoral classmates made the news: R. J. JACCODINE, phv-sicist with Bell Telephone Lab­oratories, ^Mlento\\*n, Pa., published a paper in October's Journal of the American Ceramic Society; and BRO. JAMES F. GR.AY, S.M., chairman of the math department at St. Mary's University, Saa Antonio, Tex., was awarded a Minnie Stevens Piper Foundation grant for his achievements, including 
N.S.F. teaching at N.D., his effort to revise high school math curricula, three textbooks and his popular series of mathematics instruction over telrS vision (commercial) in South Texas, ^ 
1959 
Dennis M. Nead 6121 Robison Rd. Cincinnati, Ohio 

Belated Christmas and New Year's Greetings to the Class of '59 with the hope that 1962 and the years to come will provide happiness in all o( our endeavors. I'd like to thank those of you who 
• liavc written mc letters for the column; your notes have been most helpful and please keep them com­ing. The bit of news to follow was collected through the somewhat brightened opening season and, need­less to say, rather dismal closing; we'll just have to be Dodger fans and say wait until next year. Recently discharged from the service, BILL REILLY is now with the Chase ^fanhattan Bank in New York completing his training program. Billy was last seen on 4oth and Broadway at a place called the Peppermint Lounge and along with KEVL\ H.ALUG.\N and ROGER BRESLIN made a tremendous performance with the U.S.'s number one fanc>', the Twist. 
A list of classmates seen at the Oliver after the ^Northwestern game last fall included 1st year law 
•itudcnt JOHN LEAHY, GEORGE ROSS, BILL McFARLi\ND, EDDIE RICCUTI, KEVIN BURKE, FRANK REYNOLDS, DAVE HAGAN, Mr. and Mrs. DUNCAN LAVIGNE (Duncan is now with Brunswick Bowling), Mr. and ifrs. CORNEILIUS HAUGH, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN FREY and BILL FLYNN and wile (Arkansas travelers still ser\-ing their last few months with the /\ir Force), Mr. and Mrs. TOM RYAN, JACK HUGHES, BOB SEDU\CK and TOM BOHMER. 
BILL QUINN returned to N,D, in '60 and re­ceived his ^I.A. in correctional administration in August. Since then he has been a parole officer for the State of New York working out of the 
N.V.C. office at 320 Broadway. He and his wife and daughter Michelle now reside in Lindcnhursl, Long Island. 
0 RUDY HORNISH married .Miss Adclc Walsh of Morris Plains, N.J., last September and is now teaching English at Scton Hall U. and hopes to receive his master's before the summer. Rudy pur­sued his military career along with DAN FERRONE at Fort Due and while imbedded in that travesty, wrote a full length musical revue with a possible New York potential. Dan is presently in "The Sound of Music" in New York, unmarried, writing like mad, and understudying the lead in same show; he pla>*s a neighbor of Captain Von Trapp and congratulations arc in order for a fine job. PAUL MacALlSTER just completed liis 6 mo. tour of Ft. Dbc. 
CORNEILIUS B.ALL, the United States' answer 

• o Cecil B. DeMille, now heads the base theatrical group in Poitiers, France. Buckv can be reached at 313 SG Co. Service, APO 44 N.Y., N.Y. 
RICHARD BOLAND was presented with a 6 lb., 5 oz. girl, Kimberly Ann, on November 8 but was abo recently activated and is stationed at Ft. CliafTcc, Arkansas. 
GARY VONDRAN was married on the 25th of November to Miss Afary Ellen White of Euclid, 0-; now working out of Hartford, Conn., he is rapidly climbing to the top in the aluminum fence busi­ness. 
ROGER O'NEIL received his iLB..-\. at Cornell 

U. in June, 1961, and is now employed with the Mobil International Oil Co. in New York. Roger trained in Wi'diita, Ka., and ran into TED Mac-DONALD, who is working with the Harris Upham Co. as a stockbroker. 
ROBERT SIENKO entered the Air Force in 

AVugust of '60 and worked at the Pentagon for six months and then was reassigned to Patrick Air Force Base as a project engineer with our space efforts. Bob was married in June of '61 and ex­pects the first addition to the family to arrive this May. 
BOB PIESLAK received his chemical engineer degree in '60 and has just terminated his sbc­month hitch at Fort Leonard Wood; he now works with DuPont in Wilmington, Del. 
JOHN ROY and ANDY ^VYRICK are both in ^h e -Air Force working at Space Systems Division ^SSD , HQS) in Los Angeles. PETE HELLAWELL is employed in the sales division of some company in Conn. 
CHARLIE CARAVATTI was married this past summer in Torrington, Conn., and is now employed as an accountant in Chicago. Also employed in Chicago is JIM O'HARE, with the Bureau of In­ternal Revenue. 
BRUCE CONNOLY just received his master*s degree in business administration from Babson Insti­tute in Boston. DAVE DODGE received his chemi­cal engineer degree in '60 and is presently on active duty with the Navy at Great Lakes for three months. 
CHUCK KAPPERT and RAY van 0\'ER­SHOELDT arc both employed with the United Aircraft Corp. BUCKY O'CONNOR ^^•as married last November in Orange, N.J., and is now fol­lowing his father's footsteps studying pre-mcd in Rome. 
JOHN MADDEN is in his third year of law school at N.D. and ranking very high in class standings; the mad man now resides in Nilcs, Mich. 
The class of '59 expresses sincere regret to RICH­ARD WOLFE on the recent death of his father. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Army notes: 2nd Lt. JOHN F. GUERRE of Gar>', Ind., completed officer orientation training at Ft. Benjamin Harrison, Ind., in December; 2nd Lt. GEORGE K. VITZU.M of Hays, Kan., finished medical orientation at Brooke Army Medical Center, Ft. Sam Houston, Tex.; in November Pvt. BRUCE 
A. CONNOLLY of Norwood, Mass., wound up disbursing specialist training at Benjamin Harrison's Finance School; 2nd Lt. JOHN H. TREANOR, Pelham, N.Y., finished infantry orientation at Fort Benning, Ga.; at Ft. Leonard Wood, ifo., Pvt. AL.\N E. REED finished a light vehicle driver course in October, about the time that 1st Lt. RICIL\RD S. LOMBARDI started in the backfield for the Headquarter Battalion football team, haWng turned down a tryout bid from the Dallas Cowboys after his active duty; and at Ft. Monroe, Va., 1st Lt. KEVIN R. HALLIGAN of North Bergen, .\.J., wound up a tour as commanding officer of the I4th Transportation Company and work with local youth groups with a certificate of achievement for out­standing duty performance. 
Skating whiz turned pilot, US.AF 1st Lt. GEORGE 

D. WILSON is competing for a place on the U.S. Olympic speed skating team. George finished pilot training as a tanker skipper with the S.A-C. 95th Bomb Wing at Biggs AFB, Texas, and is taking time off from this job to polish the performance that won him 35 speed skating titles. 
ROBERT H/\SSENGER has begun teacliing at Chicago's St. Xavicr College after winning his M.A. from Marquette. He's working for his Ph.D. in political science at the U. of Chicago too. Bob reports that JOHN LrVUERAlAN and PHIL ECK­ERT are in their last year in Marquette Law School, and JOHN ROCK is in the grad journalism pro­gram there. JAMES G. GRIFFIN plans to get his 
M.S. in mcclianical engineering in Fcbniary and to work in the missile field. Also in his plan was marriage to Betty Anne Koscielski in Sacred Heart Church Feb. 3. ROBERT E. WELCH has been living in Williamslown, Mass., and working for Sprague Electric Co. in North Adams since his marriage last July 1 to Teresa Helen Dittrich in Glen Rock, N.J. A former Scholastic crusader, GEORGE CLEMENTS is a police reporter for the Indianapolis Star. And JERO.ME FR/\NCIS TRAUTSCHOLD, JR., of Waco, Tex., got his 
M.B.A. with honors from the U. of Chicago, having made the dean's list several times during his studies in production. 
1960 
John F. Gcier 715 La Crosse Avenue Wilmette, Illinois 

Surprise! I am still reporting to you from home base and not from any militar>' installation as I had expected and reported at the time of my last writing. Tlie case of yours truly was reconsidered and I was granted a reprieve by the draft board in order to continue graduate studies at Loyola University, and of course, to maintain my critical position as ^e^vs writer for the Class of '60. 
As your secretary it is with deep regret that must begin this column with a sad note. A letter from the Alumni Office has informed me of the death of another classmate, JIM HARRIS, who died November 10. Please remember him in your prayers. Jim is the son of Mr. and Mrs. John Harris of 202 North Ocean Ave, Patchogue, L.L, 
N.Y. Expressions of sympathy are extended to PAUL BERETZ on the death of his father, O. Paul Beretz, who died October 4; and to STEVE ELEK on the death of his father, Stephen Elek. Sr., who died April 19. 
Upon the advice of a recent Alumni-Office mem­orandum instructing all secretaries to soft-pedal small talk and chit-chat, I shall hereby make an effort at this writing to report with a minimum of prattle. 
In the cornucopia of activities and happenings of '60 grads is news of JERRY LEPPEK, u-ho is cur­rendy employed by the State of Illinois as a social ^vorker for the Cook County Dcpt. of Public Aid. Jerry hopes to begin graduate \vork in the same field. 
Tlianks to the anonymous informant who an­nounces the recent birth of Kevin Joseph to Terr and JOE McCARTHY. Joe, I am told, is attend­ing Purdue University for his master's in electrical engineering. Other proud parents of rccciit months are Sara and ^VILLIAM DUMA, who since March 17, have been the delighted owners of a brown-haired girl, Mary Kathryn, who measured all of l^Ys" and weighed 6 and some lbs. at birth. Daddy Duma is working for Price, \Vaterhouse & Co. and becomes a student at night at Mar­quette's Department of Finance. A son, James Peter, was bom on July 30 to Judy and JIM FL/\NNERY. Jim, who is a travelling accountant for Tauche, Ross, Bailey & Smart, gives us his address in hopes that some of you will get in touch. 
A birth announcement from the ALBERT C. PERRINOS (Ph.D. '60) of Cranston, R.I., is en­titled "Just what we wanted" — a baby boy, Philip Michael, born Oct. 1 . . . and Lisa Ann, a baby girl, was bom on June 24 to Lynorc and GERALD PIERCE. Jerry is employed as an accountant by the Des Moines office of Peat, Mar^vick, ^fitcheIl &. Co. 
A note from a non-N.D. alumnus but a long­time admirer of our alma mater includes news of Barbara and LT. "RUSTY" >V1LKE, who wel­comed the birth of their first, Valerie, a baby girl, bom July 15. The three Wilkes are sutioned at Ft. Ord, California. 
On Dec 30 KEN BOURGON and EUca Danket exchanged marriage vm*-s during a Nuptial Mass at Saint Bride's Church in Chicago. Best wishes to you both! Incidentally, Ken is a high-school in­structor at Livonia, ^Iich. . . . More matrimonial notes . . . TOM SHISIUfAN was married last summer in Albuquerque . . . and Joan Duffy and FR.\NK HANSON plan an August wedding. 
Although names of their mates have not been made a\'ailable, the follomng grads are slated as those who are soon to lose the status of bachelor­hood. . . . SKIP EASTERLY (to be married Jan. 27 in Rice Lake, Wisconsin); and BRUCE COS­ACCHI (about whom no other Info has been sub­mitted). 
Fragmentary but factual information that has come to my attention includes the follou'ing . . . Meg and DAN O'NEILL have taken up residence at 130 Roycroft, Apt. 307, Long Beach, Calif. . . . By the lime of this publication ED PAULSEN will be serving his sLx-month hitch as 2nd Lt. with, the 
U.S. fVrmy . . . Japanese student TOM O'CON­NELL of AVilmette w-as home for a Christmas leave from the U.S. Army's Language School at Mon­terrey, Calif. Sayonara, Tom! . . . and 505 Union .Ave., Neptune, N.J. is the new address of J. .\nCH.\EL MULHALL. 
With BOB DINI at the University of Chicago's Law School, is JOHN BOLGER. Sorry to have excluded your name, John, from an earlier publi­cau'on . . . BILL HEAPHY is doing high-school teaching some\vhere in Florida . . . JERRY CON­VERSE is teaching in Lorain. Ohio . . . and TOM KANE is a graduate student at the Umversity of Detroit. 
Gar>', Indiana is the present address of the FRANK BUZOLITS family, where Frank is located with the U.S. Steel Co. Congratulations to you both on the arri^-al of your first, Frank Jr., bom Nov. 24 . . . Mr. and Mrs. DONALD McKIBBEN, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March^ 1962 49 
who were married May 16, arc living in Dahlgren, Va., where Ensign McKibben and family are sta­tioned at the U.S. Xa\-al Weapons Laborator>'. 
JACK SALADINO of art-world fame is a gradu­ate student at the Fine Arts School of Yale Uni­vereity. Also at Yale is HANK FRAAVXEY of Spcarfish, S. Dakota, who is studWng dramatics in a master of art program. 
WANTED! More news. . . . Your letters and vour postcards arc what make this column a reality, so PLExVSE, let's hear MORE from MORE of you. 
Best wishes for an auspicious new year! 
From the Alumni Office: The Armv Roll: at Ft. Benning. Ga.. Ui Lt. JAMES R. COKER of Linden, N.J.. (LL.B. '61). and 2nd Lt. FRED J. HOEY (M.A. '61) of Albany, N.Y., finished officer orientation in the Infantr>-Scliool (Jim has a wife, Diane, in Linden); in Mainz, Germany, JAMES A. SULLH'AN made 1st Lt. with the 8th Division's 504th Infantr>% and in Frankfurt 2nd Lt. PATRICK J. McNAMARA of South Bend %vas a platoon leader in the 3rd Armored Division's recent field training test, Ex­ercise Brand>-»vinc; at Ft. Slocum, N.Y., Pvt, MICHAEL J. MULLEN finished information officer training in December; at Ft. McCIellan. Ala., 2nd Lt. DONALD G. SU^EENEY of Fargo, X.D., formcrlv with Sweeney Bros. Tractor Co. there, and 2n'd Lt. LEROME E. FARLEY of Sherman Oaks, Calif., both finished the chcmical-biological­radiological course at Chemical Corps school in November. 
FRANK B. CAUCHON writes that he's been married to the former Jean M. McCormack of St. Louis, Mo., since Nov. 2G, 1960. Their first son, Frank McCormack Cauclion, was bom last Sept. 8. Frank has been working for R.C..A. in Burlington, Mass., as an engineer in applied research and work­ing nights for an M.S. in electrical engineering at Northeastern U. He sa>-s there's really ad\-anced work being done in tlie Eastern scliools. ALBERT 
C. LeS.\GE has been working at sution A\TCX in Minneapolis, Minn., since graduation. Last April he married Joyce Hirscli of Minneapolis. 
Tlic death of JAMES RARRIS mentioned above is covered by the following letter to F.ATHER HESBURGH from Jim's aunt, Mrs. Dorothy Camcy: 

"I am writing tliis letter to ask your prayers for J.AMES D. HARRIS and his brother William, age 19, who were lost in a boating acddent on Chesa­peake Bay Nov, 9. As of today their bodies have not been recovered and hope of finding them alive, if at all, is vco' slim, although an extensive scarcli is still being conducted. 
''You probably do not remember this incident, but it is one of our clierishcd memories. Jim introduced his mother and father, his two brotliers and his two sisters, liis girl friend and mc to you. You remarked that you thought wc were the largest family group there — that may not have been so, but wc certainly were the happiest. As Jim intro­duced me, he said in his excitement, 'This is my Aunt Dolly" and you responded 'Hi, Aunt Dolly!' covering Jim's embarrassment beautifully and de­lighting us with your Informality. However, at that moment our picture was snapped and we have a permanent record of a very red-faced young man. 
"A little later we missed his brother Bill — only to find him in the little cliapel alone. 'Tliis is where I belong,' he said — but unfortunately his marks did not meet Notre Dame's requirements. 
"Jim went through Notre Dame with the help of God and s. half dozen loan companies. He asked for vcr>' little — only to be permitted to complete his studies — and although he was not brilliant, he never failed a subject. His greatest desire was to be a teaclier, but he did not accept the fellowship because he felt his family had sacrificed enough and he should now tr>' to help them. 
*'He became a budget analj-st for the Navy Polaris program and, taking his young brother with him, assumed all financial responsibilities so that Bill could attend night classes at Benjamin Franklin University. He watched over lum like a father — his final act on cartli was an effort to save Bill when a pole gave way on the boat hurling him into the water. 
**Our high hopes for Jim's future will never be realized — but you can be assured that his cver>­thought, word, and deed were worthy of his training at Notre Dame. Evcrj-one who ever met Jim was touched by his goodness. 
"Please pray for our boys and for us." 

50 Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 
1961 
Nick Palihnich 34 Dartmouth Road ^Vest Orange, N. J. 

As I sit down to write this column the year of 1961 is rapidly drawing to a close. Just what kind of a year has it been? Tliat depends a great deal upon what side of the fence one happens to be sitting on. For those of us who arc members of the armed forces of this countr>% or are eligible material for the draft, it has been a year of ten­sion and trouble, with the threat of ever present crises in Berlin, Cuba and Africa. A year wbicli has seen the Russian metamorphosis of the past two decades ascend to Its greatest height. If you arc an avid Notre Dame football fan it has been a year filled with ups and downs. .After the first three games it appeared that 1961 would bring Notre Dame back to where it belongs in college football; then the heartbreaking defeat to Micliigan State, and the early season momentum was never regained. Last, If you arc a Yankee fan, '61 has been the greatest. A year whldi saw "M Com­pany" crush its American League opponents and the cliampionship from the "stronger" National League. A record tliat had withstood all oppo­sition for some thirty-five years fell, a record that most thought would never be broken. 
Since the writing of my last column In Septem­ber, I have had three more men from the Class of '61 volunteer to be alumni representatives. The new alumni rep. for the Chicago area is TOM BR.\NNIGAN. Tom is currently attending law scliool at Notre Dame and can be readied at the following address: 531 Cleveland Ave., South Bend, Ind. JOEL H.AGGARD has volunteered to repre­sent the Northwestern states of ^fontana, \Vash­
ington, Idaho, Wyoming, Nevada, Utah, and Ore­gon. Joel is studv-ing nudear engineering at the 
U. of Oklahoma. .All graduates living In the above mentioned states may readi Joel at this address: 416 College, Norman, Okla. JIM K.AVAL, who is attending the graduate sdiool of business at Stan­ford, volunteeri-d to represent the state of California. His address is P.O. Box 2263, Stanford, Cal. 
In the early part of the fall, I had the pleasure of attending the wedding of JACK CHRISTIAN and Miss Helen Richardson. The event took place on Sept. 23, in New Brunswick, N.J. PETE CROIT'Y, Jack's former roommate at Notre Dame, and JIM SULLlVi\N were ushers in the bridal party. Others attending the ceremony were DAVE McCANN and BOB COYLE. Tlie couple left for their hone\*moon In Jamaica after the reception, JIM SULLIVAN informed me that he would be working for McGraw-Hill Publishing Co. in New Orleans. I told him that the night before the wed­ding he was seen in Summit, N.J., and I then mentioned the name of a St. ^Ia^>•'s student, Noel Coleman, who just happens to live in this town. Jim flatly denied any connection. 
Just about a month ago, I was fortunate enough to return to our Alma Mater to sec JOE "THE TOE" PERKOWSKI apply the crusher to Syra­cuse in one of the most thrilling college football games ever played. On the flight out of South Bend I sat next to JOE BETTE. Joe spent the summer In Europe, working in Germany and living with a German family. After the completion of his summer Job obligation in Germany, he took a tour of Europe that Included a stayovcr on the Italian Rlriera with friends of his family. It seems they owned an estate overlooking the Mediter­ranean and also had a beautiful 19-year-old daugh­ter. Some people have luck and then there arc people like Joe. He is now working for an engi­neering firm In Walerburv-, Conn. Over the Syra­cuse weekend I met BOB YARIO, who is now in his second year of nicd school at Illinois. MIKE "SMOKY" BAER also came out for the game. Mike Is now teadiing and coadiing at St, Mar>''s High in MIdiigan. In his first season as head football coadi his team posted A 6 to 2 record. On Saturday night I went out to Lincoln Way Inn 
with TOM BRANNIG.AN and RAY KASHINSKI. Ray is currently in an executive training program with the Rieke Construction Co. in the Chicago area. I noticed that Tom's date, Jean Mortimer from St. Xavier's in Chicago, was wearing a very 
1962 
familiar looking ring, similar to a small Notre Dame ring. Upon further inquiry I found out that it had finally happened; one THOMAS BR/\NNI^ CAN had become miniatured. Needless to say, I didn't rub this in too much for the rest of the night. 
GEORGE FISHER, BERXIE CRiMG, and DEE D.AViS are all rooinlnt; together at Georgetown Law School. On November 4 the three of tlicm spent a weekend in New Jersey at the homes of JOHN KEEGAN, also attending Georgetown Law, and DAXT McCANN, currently studying laiv at Fordham. That Saturday night tlierc was a minor reunion of some of the Sorin graduates at the Gaslight, in N.Y.C. Tlie night was highlighted by BOB FISHER*S spotlight exhibition of the "Twist" with one of the cocktail girls at the club. If I hadn't seen it with my own eyes, I wouldn't havg^-. believed it. W. 
I received a postcard from BOB SaARPITTO, who Is currently playing with the San Diego Chargers In the American Football League. Bob and his wife Louise returned to New Jersey for the holidays, after the Cliargers played for the 
A.F.L. Championship on Dec. 24. JACK and MARCIA MITCHELL sent mc a birth announce­ment of their first child, a girl whom they named Sherv'l L>'nn. Tills news came as a great shock to mc because now, although Shcr>*l has gained a father, I have In turn lost a "mother." Jack Is anxiously awaiting the spring and a trip to Florida for spring training with the Minnesota Twins. D.AN HAGAN had a big year In his first season of professional baseball, hitting .340 in the Appa ^ lachian League. BOB SCHOLT2, now living hW Arlington, Va., completed his second successful season as starting offensive center for the Detroit Lions In the N.F.L. 
On Sept. 2, over Labor Day weekend, BOB FERNS married Miss Mar>- Ellen Haller In Con­cord, N.H. The couple honeymooned In Bermuda. Notre Darners attending the wedding were ROY REG.AN, PETE DORAN, ED MURRAY, TLM O'REILLY, and MIKE NASH. ROY REG.AN is now living in N.Y.C. and working for the Marines at Quantico. MIKE NASH Is attending Kent Law Sdiool in Ohio. 
While I am ou the subject of weddings, I would 

like to apologize to BILL FLORA for omitting his 
name from the list at JERRY McNAMAR/VS wed­
ding over the summer. 
ART ARMENTO, the "Alpine Flash," recently recovered from a serious bout with hepatitis. Tlii ^ illness almost prevented him from entering O.C.S. with the Marines on Oct. 2, but my reports from the Alpine area relate that his speedy rccover>* was the result of several visits to the hospital by a certain local fan by the name of Jcri. Knowing the fan, I can understand his recovery. TOM AURELIO completed a six month obligation with the Army as a private working in the finance and accounting division at Fort Hamilton. After release on Aug. 4 he entered Fordham Law School In the fall. EDDIE CORNELIA completed a sL\-month tour of duty with the Army as an intelligence officer at Fort Halibird, Md. He is now working in a management training program with Wesler^\ Electric in Kearney, New Jersey. Ed and his wife, the former Monica Elliatli. arc living in Statcn Island with their three Vctville-bom children. DON BADER also entered Marine O.C.S. at Quantico on Oct. 2, 1961. He hoped to be commissioned on Dec. 15 and go on to flight training at Pensa­cola. On Dec. 30, 1961, Don planned to marr>­Miss Sharon Starkwcatlier of South Bend In Sacred Heart Church. All classmates of Don were more than welcome at the wedding. JACK LOFY is 
currently serving an .Army obligation in Virginia as a 2nd lleut. in the transportation pool. JIM HICKEY reported to the Navy's O.C.S. In New­port last Sept. JIM KENNY entered the Marines in the fall and Is ultimately aiming for flight train­ing with this organization. The inside dope Is that there is a definite connection between PAT O'BRIEN'S enlistment in the Navy Officers Flight Training Sdiool at Pcnsacola, Fla., and a Florida co-ed named Gloria. C^ 
JOE KEYERLEBER, JIM FITZGERALD, MIK ^ CURTIN, TO.M PAULJCK, and MARTY RQNAN all completed their training with the Peace Corps and were sent to Chile last September. Just re­cently I received a letter that v\-as of tremendous personal Interest to me and I know the same will hold true for any of the Class of *61 that remem­ber DAVE KNOX from our frosh and soph years. Dave Is now BRO. KEVIN, O.C.S.O., and has completed his two-year novitiate with the Trappist Monks. Although he is not allowed to write let tcrs he may receive them at this address: Abbe) 
W) 

«>f Our Lady of New Milleray, Dubuque, Iowa. ^*m sure that he would be vcrj- happy to receive -^ome mail from his old classmates. FRANK 0*CONNOR has entered the MaryknoU Missibn and TOM BRENNAN the Jesuit Order iti Milford, 
O. PAUL FLEMING has also rrccived the call to the priesthood. The following C.S.C. seminarians have been transferred to Holy Cross College in Washington, D.C.: PATRICK GUENTERT, D.WID FOLEY. JEROME KEATING, EDWIN MINES, THOMAS RICKS, JAMES TALAGA, JOSEPH FINNEGAN, and J.AMES DWYER. To the Sem­inar>- of Santa Cruz in Santiago. Chile, the C.S.C. hxt sent THOMAS GIOMETTI. JAMES IRWIX, and DANIEL PANCHOT. 
JACK "SCOOP* SKUPIEN and Rita Xellis of ."flChicago were married late last summer in Chicago. 
•Another summer marriage involvi-d RON LaREAU and Sylvia Avalos of Calumet City. III. In addition to working for Hamm's Brewcr\'. Ron is also teach­ing economics and general business courses at St. Patrick's High School in Kankakee. Last June JOHN SNYDER was married to Marlcne Sobicraj' of Frankfort, N.Y. John's former roommate MIKE YACCARINO was best man at the wedding. JIM OSTER >«-as also present. John Is now employed by the National Tube division of U.S. Steel in Lorain, O. 
CHICK ANNESE, New York State alumni rep. is now in a sales training program at Purdue for the Univ'ac division of Remington Rand. Chick 
Reports that TONY "HARRY" MUSA is teachins 
^n d coaching at a Catholic high school in West Palm Beach, Fla. KEV RYAN is doing excep­tionally well with Armour in Albany. NED SMITH is working with a brokerage firm in X.Y.C. Flash!! FRANK GARGIULO docs not have a two hundred-foot swimming pool in his back yard. 
JACK GENTEMPO, former captain of the Notre Dame baseball team, is in grad school at Rutgers studying physiolog>-. MICKEY RYAN is getting a taste of life In the *'Villagc." while attending grad school in retailing at N.Y.U. BOB HUTCHINSON and JACK BURNS are at Fordham Law SCIUMII. BILL BUTTINGER received a fellowship at the 
U. of Arizona and is heading for a doctorate in mechanical engineering. TOM JORDAN is study­ing for his master's in business administration at the U. of Pittsburgh. TOM CONNEELY and 
t
ON VECKERELLI arc both attending X.D. Law rhool. BILL PILE is doing grad work in busi­ness administration at Butler in Indianapolis. GEORGE LESNICK is attending Cardinal Stritcli School of Medicine while living on the west side of Chicago. 
TOM CARROLL, former bonus baby with the New York Yankees, has decided to hang up his spikes in favor of a position with the Department of Defense, doing evaluation and analysis work. Tom and his %rifc are the parents of a girl born last July. TOM GIBBONS is in an executive training program with Ford Motor Co. in Dear­bom. Mich., attending grad school at the U. of 
^Detroit, with Ford paying all of the expenses. 
^AV E STUART is teaching in Colombia, South America. JOHN GRIEB worked for the Xorlh­western Steel and Wire Co. before entering the .Army in Oct. as a commissioned officer. John must scr\'c a two-year obligation and is currently stationed at Fort Eustis, Va. PAT SMYTH is working for Enterprise Federal Savings and Loan in Washington, D.C. JAY GALLAGHER is em­ployed by the government and is also attending Georgetown Law School in the evening. Jay mar­ried Betty Ann Hardy last July, and they now live In Arlington, Va. CARL GOY, formerly of "Carl and Bob Enterprises," is working for the Electro Voice Corp. in the South Bend area. He is also working toward his master's in electrical engineering at Notre Dame. Standard Oil. Gar>*, Ind., has employed BILL KNIPPER as a chemi­cal engineer. Now I know the reason why DAN -MATERNA left Bayonnc, N.J. for Steubenrille, O. 
^-a job with Wheeling Steel Corp. 
That long expected date was finally set. Dec. 23, 1961, for the marriage of LT. BILL HALL and Pat Hanley of Scarsdale, N.Y. CHUCK. "I'LL BE THE LAST TO GO" SCHULER has gone. The marriage date was August 26, I96I, and the place Muskegon, Mich. What will ALW. do now? GEORGE "TOPPER" BOTT, another class offi­cer, was also married over the summer and Is IKing in Central Square. N.Y., \*hile attending grad school at Syracuse. RON OLSON and Ann­
«
te Schauert were married on Nov. 18 in Chicago, ie last of the marriage notes involves BOB CUM­MINGS and Mar>' Ann Haslcr, who were married in Sept. In Buffalo and arc now living in Lock-port. 
PETE REILLY is attending Georgetown Law School. Pete informed mc that JIM O'MALLEY is studying law at Fordham and that DAN O'DONOGHUE and BOB PHELAN have another semester left at Notre Dame. GREG HOLTZ is studying at the Sorbonne in Paris. PAT HART spent the summer taking pre-med courses at Bos­ton U. so that he could enter medical school in the fall. NEAL GALIONE is working for his master's in electrical engineering at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. RON CLIFF received a graduate teaching assistantshlp in historv at Ohio 
U. in Athens. O. ED .McDONOUGH and JOE "PAT" KELLY are getting used to life at a co-ed Institution while studying law at the U. of Texas. 
After spending four exciting weeks in the jungles of Panama last summer, JOE BELLIN.A is finding life a little duller while attending grad school at Notre Dame. Joe has an asslslantship in physics. CHUCK QUINN has returned to Notre Dame iviih a three-year fellowship to study symbolic logic. DAVE HUDSON is working on his M.A. in history- at Columbia. 
Congratulations are !n order for PAT NEE for the fine job he and his assistants did In compiling the Class of '61 Alumni Directory*. Pat Informed me that he has already started plans for a class, reunion at the Syracuse game In New York next fall. 
Your prayers are requested for TOM MURCH, who died on August 5. 1961. 
From the .Mumnl Office: 
Armv roll call: at Ft. Bliss. Tex.. 2nd Lt. RONALD H. ZLOTNIK of Rochester. N.Y.. finished officer orientation last fall at Air Defense School; Reserve Pvts. WILLIAM M. CHAMPION, Cleveland, O.. and FEITON .\L O'NEILL, Lake­wood. O.. finished a six-month hitcli at Ft. Leaven­worth. Kan., as personnel specialist and air main­tenance crewman respectively, and both will 5er\'c the rest of their .Army time with the 273rd Transportation Companv. a Reserve unit in South Bend; 2nd Lts. JOHN V. DIAZ, Oklahoma City, Okla.. and RICHARD J. DORGAN, Winnctka. III.. together finished officer orientation at Provost Marshal General School. Ft. Gordon. Ga., in De­cember; at Ft. Benjamin Harrison, Ind., 2nd Lt. EDWARD P. FARLEY. Madison, Wis., and Pvt. GEORGE E. E/\SLEY finished officer orientation and disbursing specialist training respectively at the Finance School; finishing officer orientation in the Infantrv School at Ft. Benning. Ga.. in November and December were 2nd Lis. STEPHEN W. BEN­NISON. Ft. Plain. N.Y.. GERALD L. CARRIER, Indianapolis. Ind.. PAUL G. HOLMAN. JR.. Marion. Ind., JOHN P. McLAUGHLIN, Ogden. Utah. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, Bcr^xTn, HI­
STR.\TFORD E. STEPAN (son of ALFRED STEPAN, '31). Winnetka. III., and ROBERT J. WIERSBERG, Elmhurst, N.Y.; it was chemlcal­hiologlcal-radlologlcal orientation for 2nd Lt. MAR­TIN A. DECRE, Elmhurst. at Chemical Corps School. Ft. McCIellan. .Ala.; finishing orientation at Ft. Knox. Kv.. Armor School were 2nd Lts. ARTHUR BARILLE, JR., Manhasset. N.Y.. MARK 
R. KILDUFF, Humboldt, Tcnn.. WILLIAM H. PEN'TZ, Charleroi, Pa., and CIRIL F. ROSE, JR., of South Bend; completing orientation at the Transportation School, Ft. Eustis, Va.. were 2nd Lts. EDWARD H. ARNOLD, Lebanon, Pa., JOHN 
P. GRACE, Chicago, HAROLD J. GRIEB, Sterling. III., JOHN R. LECHNER, Solon. O. (assigned to the 763rd Transportation Battalion). JOHN L. LOFY, Springfield, III.. DOMINIC SfONTEROS-SO, Detroit, PIERRE L. OLIVERO. Odessa. Del., UlLLIAM D. PFLAUM, Dayton, O. (named out­standing graduate). GERALD V. POH, Richmond, Va., and WILLLAM C. STEBER, River Forest, 111.; finally, winding up their orientation at the Quarter­master School, Ft. Lee, Va., were 2nd Lu. JAMES 
F. LEE (wife Alida), Evergreen Park, 111., LOUIS 
P. NEEB, South Bend, MICH.AEL J. SCHIM­BERG. Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and BARRY C. SCHLINE. East Syracuse, X.Y. 
The Air Force reported that 2nd Lt. CARL D. VAN HECKE is an electronic counter-counter­measures officer with Headquarters Reno Air Defense Sector, Stead Air Force Base, Ne^-ada. Carl's wife is the former Mary Cecilia Grimes. SMC '61. The>' live in Reno! And that 2nd Lt. JOHN L. RUPPEL, JR., of Rochester, N.Y., is in pilot training with T-33 and T-37 jets at Reese AFB, Tex. Finally, that 2nd Lt. LEO F. JAROSZEWSKI of South Bend finished the technical training course for medical administration at Gtmtcr AFB. Ala., aad has been assigned to Offutt AFB. Neb. His wife u the former Rozanne Zack of South Bend. 
From the Navy comes word that Ens. JOHN K. KEALV. JR.. of Piedmont, Calif., was named Honor Man of the Senior Battalion at U.S. Navy Supply Corps School, Athens. Ga., graduating at ' the top of his class December 21. He got orders as disbursing officer, Ns^iles, Italy. Runner-up for class honors was a classmate Ens. ROBERT E. MILLER. 
THOMAS F. STOLL of South Bend has enrolled at Seabury-Westem Episcopal Theological Seminary, Evanston. 111. He is married to the former Sterling Cole of South Bend. CHARLES HOFFMAN got his call last fall and reported to Fort Jackson, S.C. 
Finally, JLM McDONALD, TRACY OSBORNE and DAN GRIFFITH are lay misstoners with the Volunteer Teachers Service and have been teaching at St. Joseph's School, Killeen, Tex. Thcv wrote to FATHER BOARMAN sending their best to KIGALI, BILLY CLARK. ED BUTLER and the rest. 
LowClossof 1961 
John N. Morcland Assistant County Attorney Wapello County Court House Ottuoiwa, Iowa 

Although this is being written on the lOth of December, by the time you read it my best wishes for a Merry Christmas and Happy New Year will be late, but I extend them an>'vvay. 
My first item Is from TONY BRUNO who smashed the Xcvs- Jersey bar exam and is prac­ticing In Little Silver, N.J., until his ser\'icc call comes. He made it to the Southern Cal game in the company of CAL ABOOD. Mary and I got a joint letter from JIM and POLLY TALAGA who arc in Washington, D.C. Jim goes into the service on the 9th of Jahuar>', and hope to sec them when they come through Iowa and get a current address on them. Jim sees TOM CLU5SERATH as well as other former X.D. Law graduates often. Klu is with the S.E.C. there. MIKE ROSE wrote from Rochester, N.Y., that hr and Rita are looking forward to a tax deduction and army de­ferment next stmimer. His address is 122 Schofield. Rochester 17, X.Y. JOHN DUNN reports that his wedding date has been set for February 10 in Chi­cago and extends his Inritatlon to all who can make it. 
The dav of the Indiana Bar Ceremony, I talked ; to JOE SLADE. TONY BONNIWELL, TOM SCHAFFER. JOHN DUNN. SOAPY WEBBER and ART ROULE via long distance. Joe is officiating with another attorney in Sfnith Bend, but I don't hax'c an address on him yet. Sosqiy is clerking for U.S. JUDGE FRANK PICARD tn Detroit. BILL KENNEDY, according to informa­tion and belief, can't find a single good casino player in Minneapolis but as a substitute is hard ' at work vrith the attorney general's office there. That last item came via JACK MARTZELL. He sent a very humorous letter last week, which would like to reproduce, but due to space and censorship limitations I won't. Jack's clerking for U.S. JUDGE 
J. SKELLY WRIGHT in New Orleans. RUSS LLOYD is the legal aid attorney in £%-ansvillc. Indiana. ART ROULE was appointed Judge (pro tempore de bonis non with will annexed) of the LaPorte City Court in October while the judge \t-as on \*acation. Everything was done according to traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice, according to his honor. 
TONY BONNIWELL rcporu that his address until he goes to the service will be 11508 Moore Park, North Holl>-wood, California. His family will be in Ottawa, 111., until Tony finbhes his boot training, then will join him. A birth an-­nouncement from JACK and JEANNE HOFFER tells us of the arrival of Joseph Victor on the 23rd of October. Congratulations to them. From FR. JAMES E. MORAN, CS.a , comes news that BOB SHOCKEV and family have moved into a new home in Chattanooga, Tenn., where Bob is practicing. A world of difference ftom Vetvillc, we hear. 
The Alumni office has announced its intention to publish this magazine more often In the future, so those of you who haven't been heard of, drop a few lines soon so that material will not be u-anting. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 19G2 51 
The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
December 20. 1961 Dear Fellow Alumnus: Tlie Lady of the Golden Dome has again provided strengtii, persevei-ance, and generosity to tlie Alumni Association and friends of Notre Dame during one of our most critical years. It is indeed gratifying to know that at the time of tiiis message the total gifts pledged to the Notre Dame Foundation's Capital Gifts Program were already above $11 Million. For tiiis strong expression of devotion to Notre Dame by alumni and friends the directors of the Alumni Association are deeply grateful. During the last meeting of the Alumni Board our newly formed committees were graciously received by tile various key officials of the Universit)-. I would like to express our personal thanks to Fatiier Joyce and Ed Krause for their cordial reception of the Alumni Board Committee on Athletics, which is composed of members Bill Malioney and Harr)' Mehre and Chairman Bill Fallon. Our sincere appreciation to Father Mc-Carragher, Vice-President for Student Affairs, who gave so generously of his time to review the current changes in student life with tiie Alumni Board Student Affairs Committee. Jim B}Tne and Roger Huter sen'ed on this committee with Chairman Pat Dougherty. The Alumni Board \\Tshes to express our deep appreciation to Father Moi-an, Director of Admissions, who gave a most complete report of die very complex problems concerning admissions which face Notre Dame each year. This committee is represented by John O'Connor and Maurice Carroll, wiUi John P. Dempsey as Chairman. And our heartfelt tiianks to Art Haley, Director of Public Relations, for his reception to the newly formed committee on Public Relations, which is made up of Paul Gushing, Red Shea, and Chairman Oliver Hunter. The firet meetings of these new committees were largely informative. The same type of information has been freely given to all members of the Alumni Board in the past. AVe are endeavoring to develop a closer personal relationship with the principal executives of Notre Dame who are concerned witii University problems directly and indirectly related to alumni affairs. Jim Armstrong, immediate Past President John C. O'Connor, and I ser\'ed as ex-officio membei'S of all the new committees. From these informal meetings we hope to develop a constmctive program for the future. As the year ends — and 1962 begins—I wish to urge eveiy single member of the Alumni Association to renew his own personal zeal to be certain tiiat every card for tJie current Alumni Drive is worked. This is the best guarantee for success. So far, the level of giving indicates that we can and must exceed our present goal. When we reach our $12 Million goal — we should tiien continue to stretch our individual capacities toward the long-range program for Notre Dame. There is unbelievable vitality in the competitive efforts of all the universities today — not only for the contribution dollar — not only for tiie AU-American boy—not only for the great football player — but for faculty members and brilliant students. AVe, as alumni, must truly become an apostoiate in order to continue to strengthen all of the foundations that have made Notre Dame a great University. I ^^'ish to thank Father Hesburgh and the administrative officials — the faculty — the athletic staff" — Peter Grace, Joe O'Neill, Jim Frick and the Foimdation staff — and most of all, Jim Armstrong and his assistants and the members of the Alumni Board, for their devoted cooperation during my term as President of the Alumni Association. The season's best wishes, especially for a Happy New Year! Sincerely, 
WALTER L. FLEMING, JR., '40 President 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS 










