The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

NOTRE DAME AUMNUS 
tvol 40, No. 4 October, 1962 
BROTHER PAUL — FEHR — MORRISON — HADDEN — HERING — McWEEMEY — O'DEA — FARAGHER — — SALMON — McGLEW — MILLER — BARRY — PLACE — LONGMAN — MARKS — HARPER — ROCKNE — DORAIS — GIPP — EICHENLAUB — BACHMAN — COFALL — RYDZEWSKI — KILFY — HAYES — MOHARDT — 
— ANDERSON — CASTNER — BROWN — MILLER — STUHLDREHER — CROWLEY — WALSH — LAYDEN — BOERINGER — SMITH — FLANAGAN MILLER — CARIDEO — SCHWARTZ — CANNON — BRILL — METZGER — ANDERSON — YARR — HOFFMAN — KURTH — MELINKOVICH — ROBINSON 


1887 t» lAMONt) JuBiLee op N O J-oorbALL /962 
MILINER — SHAKESPEARE — LAUTER — BEINOR — SWEENEY — BROWN — KERR — LEAHY — DOVE — CRIMMINS — WHITE — BERTELLI — MILLER YONAKOR — FILLEY — McKEEVER — DEVORE — MASTRANGELO — CONNOR — LUJACK — STROHMEYER — CZAROBSKI — HART — FISCHER SITKO — WENDELL — MARTIN — WILLIAMS — GROOM — TONEFF — MUTSCHELIER — LAHNER — PENZA — WORDEN 
SCHRADER — MAVRAIDES — HUNTER — BRENNAN — GUGLIELMI — VARRICHIONE — SCHAEFER HORNUNG — BISCEGLIA — ECUYER — PIETROSANTE — STICKLES 
* KUHARICH — POniOS — BUONICONTI 
(See pp. 10-U) 


ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

Officers 

WALTER L. FLEMING, JR., '40 —.-. 
Honorary President WILLIAM P. MAHONEY, JR., '38 President MAURICE CARROLL, '19-Class Vice-President 
ROGER J. HUTER, '40 Club Vice-President HARKY J. MEHRE, '22....Fund Vice-President JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 
Executive Secretary 


Directorsto 1963 

MAURICE CARROLL, '19 5743 Delmar Blvd. St. Louis 12, Missouri 
ROGER J. HUTER, '40* Huter-Quest Co. 833 W. Main St, Louisville, Kentucky 
WiLLUM P. MAHONEY, JR., '38 
U.S. Ambassador Accra, Ghana 

HARRY J. MEHRE, '22 3155 Arden Road, N.W. Atlanta, Geoigia 

Directorsto 1964 

JOHN P. DEMPSEY, '49 Kidder, Peabody & Co. 123 Broad St., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY, '50 
P. O. BOX 5672 Minneapolis 17, Minnesota 

WauAM H. FALLON, '37 100 Pelham Road New Rochelle, New York 
OLIVER H . HUNTER, '43 F.B.I., P. O. Box 23 New Castle, Pennsylvania 

Directorsto 1965 

ALBERT D. CASTELLINI, '24 506 First National Bank Bldg. Cincinnati, Ohio 
PHILIP J. FACGENDA, '51 1510 Ogden LaGiange, Illinois 
PETER J. KERNAN, JR., '49 661 Washington Road Grosse Pointe, Michigan 
ADAM J. WALSH, '25 
P. O. Box 349 
Portland, Maine 

* Appointed to fill unexpired term of Geoccc Con­nor, '48, who resigned under pressure of business. 

Ouurmen of the 1962 Committees 
WILLIAM MAHONEY. Executive ROGER HUTER : Club Activities MAURICE CARROLI Class Activities JOHN DEMPSEY. 
Alumni Fund, Foundation & Gifts PATRICK DOUGHERTY. .^Student Affairs JOHN DEMPSEY .'.1 idmissions PETER KERNAN.J'/ocement & Job Counseling ADAM WALSH Inter-Alumni Affairs OLIVER HUNTER Public Relations ALBERT CASTELLiNi_R«/i£jon & Citizenship
PHIUP FACCEND.I.. ..Budget & Finance MAURICE CARROLL AND ROGER HUTER 
WILLIAM FALLON„ Athletics Nominations 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the Univefuty of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind. under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 




NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
EDITOR: James E. Armstrong, '25 MANAGING EDITOR: John F. Laughlin, '48 
VOLUME 40, NUMBER 4 OaOBER, 1962 
COVER: Some of the legion of "All-American" coaches and players who hove graced intercollegiate football at Notre Dame since the adoption of rugby rules against Michigan in 1887. 2: AT DEADLINE. News of the University and Notre Dame men. 3: EDITORIAL. Now is the time for all good men . . . 
4: BIG BAND AT NEWPORT. A new jazz talent. Also alumni announcements. 
5: THE N.C.C.E.M. STORY. By Herbert Johnson. Notre Dame businessmen in action. 6: MORAL MAN IN THE MODERN WORLD. By Edward Cushman. ^ Words for Catholic alumni by the vice-president of American Motors, a non-Catholic and non-alumnus. Part of a continuing series. 7: THE STUDENT SLANT. Campus reporting by Frank Dicello, '63. 8: U W SCHOOL NEWS. 9: HORIDA N.D. CONVENTION. Plus TWO SILVER JUBILEES. Faculty news by Ray Powell. 10-11: ATHLETICS. Statistics for the 75th Anniversary of Notre Dame football. 
12: VETVILLE VANISHES. Photo essay by Bro. Martinus, C.S.C. 
13: MAN & THE MOMENT. By T. J. O'Donnell, C.S.C. Reflections on the bells of Notre Dame. 14-23: CLUBS. Directory. Reports. U.N.D. Communion Sunday for the Ecumenical Council, December 9. 24-51: CLASSES. Statistics. 50-Year Club. Class Notes. Spotlight Alumni. CENTER: THE SUBUME TRADITION. Film and television criticism by Edward Rscher. BACK COVER: HOW _ THE CLASSES STAND. Challenge participation. « 
New Religious Program 

Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, '23, is pioneering the new position of Di­rector of Student Religious Life. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, said in liis announcement of the appoint­ment that he desires a tliorough study of tlie religious program for students and that Father Cavanaugh is "a living bridge bet\veen the wonderful tradi­tional values that have been effectively realized in tlie past and shares with all of us die important academic values of a growing and evolving Notre Dame." 
Father Hesburgh also stated, "Fun­damentally, it is a task for planning, analysis, and evaluation of the total religious life of our students, and hope­fully Father Cavanaugh's work will come to fruition in a blueprint which will represent our collective best think­ing for student religious life." He clarified the post further, ".. . the new position .. . is not an opci"ational func­don, but ratlier one of study and policy planning." 
Everyone is asked to submit sug­gestions to Fatlier Cavanaugh which might help this study. 
Meantime, Rev. Lloyd Teske heads the operational religious program as University Chaplain,- assisted by Rev. Thomas Baker and Rev. John Dupuis, and the new system of hall chaplains under the general supervision of Rev. Charles McCarragher, vice-president of student affairs. 
Provincial from Portland 

Rev. Hovrard J. Kenna, '26, presi­dent of the University of Portland (Oregon) since 1955, has been appoint­
ed provincial superior of the Holy 
Cross Fathers' Indiana Province. 
Rev. Paul E. Waldschmidt, C.S.C, was named president at Portland to succeed Father Kenna. He had been vice president of the Oregon institution since 1955. 
Law Advisor Named f 

Patrick F. Crowley, '33, of the Chi­cago law firm of Crowley, Sprecher, Barrett and Karaba, has been appoint­ed to the Notre Dame Law School Advisory Council. Aside from his law practice, he is perhaps best known as a national leader of the Christian Fam­ily Movement since its inception in 1949. The late Pope Pius X H awarded Mr. and Mrs. Crowley the Pro Eccle^ sia et Pontifice Medal for their leader­ship in the field of Catholic Action. 
Another Irish Bishop 

Rt. Rev. Msgr. Raymond G. Hunt­hausen, M.S. '53, former president of Carroll College, was consecrated Bishop of Helena, Montana, on August 30. The second Notre Dame-educated Bishop of Helena (first was Most Rev. George Finnigan, 1927-32), Bishop Hunthausen is the sLxth alumnus cle­vated in the past five years. The others / are: Archbishop Hallinan of Atlantapf formerly Charleston, S.C; Bishop Men­dez of Arecibo, Puerto Rico; Bishop Ganguly, auxiliary to Archbishop Law­rence Graner, C.S.C, in Dacca, East Pakistan; Bishop McCauley of Uganda, Africa; and Bishop McGrath, auxiliary in Panama. || 
-J.E.A.&J.L. rt 
par-tic-i-pate (jMr-tis'-i-pat), v.i. (par­



Sditorial Commeut 
ticipated, participating) [< L. par­

licipatus, pp. of participttreK pars, partis, a part-)-capere, to take], to have or take a part or share with others (in some activity, enterprise, from your etc.) 
Alumni Secretary 
You have heard enough about the 

University's need for money. 
So this issue I want to talk with you 

once more about alumni participation. 
All right — I know that is asking 

for money, too. But the money in thb 
connection is only an accidental factor. 
\Ve might as well settle one point 

* while we are fresh from that last state­ment — any amount you wish to give will fulfill the requirement of participa­tion. That we will leave to your own college with which some of them were in neither religious nor intellectual s)Tnpathy. 
Priests, brothers and nuns were so actively woven into the functions of Notre Dame that it was impossible to separate segments of participation. 
The early laymen were so integral a part of the institution that today few people can tell you in the hall-marked litany of Lyons, Morrissey, Howard and Corbv. who were the lavmen and who 
Participation^ Involvement-Taking a Part 
good decision. That is not our immedi­ate concern. 
The success of Notre Dame is al­ready phenomenal. The more you know the history of the University, the more amazing its achievement becomes. 
This is so true, that even our non­

^ Catholic friends recognize some special spiritual patronage that has allowed Notre Dame to emerge from more than the usual vicissitudes of the shoe-string colleges that flourished in this country as the academic Johnny Appleseeds planted love of learning on ever>' new frontier. One of the factors that comes through clearly as you study the University's histor)' is participation. 
Fatlier Sorin didn't come by way of Madison Avenue, nor did he have pro­^fessional fund-raising counsel. But he knew the value of involvement. And from the reluctant Bishop of Vincennes to the suspicious settlers in Lowell and South Bend (expanding quickly to La­porte, Niles, Kalamazoo, Silver Creek and other nearby areas), each found himself somehow involved in helping 
• the struggles of the new college — a 
were the priests. 
As early as 1867, the Silver Jubilee, a call went out to the alumni to partici­pate in the Universit)''s progress. From this early seed and sanction came the head start that has propelled Notre Dame and its alumni into the vanguard of Catholic colleges and universities, even into strong competition with older and growing colleges and universities ever)'where. 
Our history of alumni participation has for most of the 120 years of Notre Dame been one of anticipation as well. Alumni programs and policies — fund 
CLASS PARTICIPATION raising, placement, admissions, public relations — have been organized ahead of the actual need for them. The re­sults have been that when the need arose, strength was already established. 

Certainly, today, when the Uni­versity is at the peak of its history, when association vnth it is at the peak of satisfactions and rewards, and when the need for the participation of the Notre Dame family is also at its peak, we can­not avoid every effort to see that this 1962 participation lives up to hbtory. 
As this is written, only about half of our alumni have joined in the visible tangible endorsement of the University that some contribution to the Challenge Campaign provides. 
It is inconceivable that any alumnus can be disinterested in the University, its great past, its greater future. 
Many factors contribute to some dis­counting of response — illness, eco­nomic pressures that are current and urgent, disagreement with some phase of institutional change or progress, dis­illusion with some jjerson, disappoint­ment with preparation for success. But all these factors together should account for only a small percentage of our total alumni. Between the present 50% and the ideal 100% I am sure we have still much more progress, progress to new American records of interest and sup­port. 
By December 31, 1962, may we have that new record written in our history. 
 TROPHY PLANNED 
The Board o£ Directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Associatioii, through the Com­mittee on the Alumni Fund, Foundation and Gifts, has suggested that rccognitiiHi be given those Notre Dame Classes whose members most nearly approach 100% in their support of the University. 
A plaque or trophy vn\l he prepared for the presentation <rf a Class Participation Award to the Notre Dame Class with the highest percentage of participation at the close of the Challenge Appeal (July I, 1960, to June 30, 1963) and annually there­after to the Class with the best participation in the Annual Notre Dame Alumni Fond. 
The relative standing of the Classes in the Participation Sweepstakes can be de­termined by glancing at the chart on the back cover, entitled "How the Classes Stand." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Oetobtr. 1962 
GENE HULL, '32, leads his all-student band for a victory dance in the defunct Navy Drill Hall, October, 1949, saluting the victorious Irish football squad of that year. 

A Notre Dame Man Ventures Into America's Only Completely Original Art Form — Jazz 
T
HE TERRITORIAL BAN'D IS OHC of the last 
outposts for the development of jazz 
musicians across the nation," said the 
producer-director of the Newport '62 Jazz 
Festival in announcing the signing of Gene 
Hull's Jazz Giants from Bridgeport, Con­
necticut for a featured spot on the program 
July 7. 
Following a policy of presenting outstand­ing new talents who have not received adequate exposure, the Saturday program began with a 45-minute concert by "this exciting band which has been playing con­certs, college dates and dances throughout southern New England for the past four years." 

Gene Hull, organizer and leader of the Jazz Giants, formed the group in early 1958 as a workshop for Connecticut musicians and arrangers of top caliber who had either tired of traveling in top-name bands or needed a jumping-off place to the big time from the campus. 
Gene, who was graduated in '52, led a campus dance band for four years and \vas president of his freshman class. Following graduation he traveled and recorded with several name bands before becoming associ­ated with Dave Brubeck in the operation of jazz radio station WJZZ-FM in Bridgeport. 
He spends his spare time at home with his wife and eight children, in Stratford, Con­necticut. 
Personnel of the Jazz Giants includes veterans of a dozen name bands as well as several music majors from Connecticut col­leges. Arrangements are contributed by some of the best-known big band writers in the 
HULL'S JAZZ GIANTS of 1962, as they appeared at the hallowed Newport Jazz Festival on July 7, along with such revered jazz groups as the Count Basic and Duke Ellington bands. 
THREE NEW N.D. FOUNDATION STAFFERS. Edward L. Recker, '48, (left) a native of Erie, Pa., comes to the University from the Miami, Fla., area, where he had been a sales counselor for General Electric. He has been a Jaycce and a member of the Buffalo, Eric and Fort Lauderdale N.D. Clubs while in managerial and sales positions for RCA, Genual Motors, etc Ed and his wife Beatrice have five children: Ed Jr., 13; Kathleen, 12; Brad, 10; Greg, 7; and Mark, 3. Donald K. Ross, '33, (center) a Milwaukeean, returns from Chicago after three years with his own travel agency, D.K. Ross & Associates. A veteran of the N.D. athletic and public relations departments, Don attended the Law School, took an M.B.A. at Marquette and served with the Army in Germany. Unmarried, he's been active with the K. of C , Jaycecs, Chicago and Milwaukee Clubs. Den- K ^ 
nis F. Troester, '57, (right) a political science grad, had been employed by Continental Casualty in Washington, D.C., and his native Detroit. Brought up in Saginaw, Mich., Denny went to Notre Dame with a high school schol­arship award and attended George­town l.aw School. Unmarried, he has belonged to the Washington, Detroit and Saginaw Valley N.D. Clubs. 


Big Band^ at Newport 
jazz field, including Manny Alban, Ernie VVilkins, and Ralph Bums, plus band mem-; hers Jeff Leonard, Joe MarzuUi and Dick l Burlant and a number of outside con­tributors. ) 
One of the group's outstanding musical i 

features is a musical satire on Custer's Last ^i 
Stand, written in extended form and called fc*' 
"Little Big Horn." 
Represented among the band's members are such diverse professions as lawyers, teach­ers, an FBI man, engineers, an aircraft technician, an insurance investigator, and several retail businessmen, in addition to music students. 
The complete line-up of the Giants in­cludes: Trumpets—^Bob Butler, Tom Alberts, Dom Mariconda, Dick Prestige and Dan DeMarco; Trombones—^Mickey Walker, Joe J Howard, Jack Spake, Joe MaizuUi and Nick * ^ Mariconda; Saxes—Ronnie Gebeau, Dick j Burlant, Joe Daddona, Leo Grabinski, aaid I Steve Royal; Drums—Pete Daddario; Bass— Fred Fortune; Piano—Jeff Leonard. Hull plays flute, alto and baritone sax, although he has also held down the first clarinet chair wt h both the Connecticut S>Tnphony and the Shakespeare Festival Orchestra. 
ATTENTION MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
Alumni of the Department of Me­chanical Engineering are invited to a reunion Itmchcon on November 29 in New York City, in conjunction with the annual meeting of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. 
Details of the luncheon will be printed in the A.S.M.E. program. 
Anyone interested in attending may contact Dr. Edward W. Jerger, De­partment of Mechanical Engineering, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
f1 

4 Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 
WILLIAM D. JAMIESON, '05 He influenced the chairman. 

* Ed. Note: Direct alumni organization through the Alumni Association or through Notre Dame Alumni Clubs has to be limited. But there are many organizations in which Notre Dame alumni can participate and lead with multiple benefits to those movements, to themselves, and to Notre Dame itself. One possible channel is Indicated in this chal­lenging presentation by a member of the University faculty. 
held last August in Pittsburgh, of a talk on "Moral and Legal Problems in the Market­ing and Sales Field" by Mr. Joseph E. Sheehy, Director of the Bureau of Restraint of Trade. Federal Trade Commission. The annual meeting of the NCCEM was being held concurrently in Pittsburgh. 
Extensive quotations from a recent bro­chure will probably serve best to describe this vigorous movement. In summary', the objectives of NCCEM are: to aid the spirit­ual and moral formation of Catholic em­ployers and managers; to study Catholic social teachings; to exchange ideas on how these ethical principles may be applied in a complex business society; and to promote individual action of members in their busi­ness, in trade associations, in community organizations, and in politics, to correct un­christian practices and help establish a healthy moral environment. The movement itself docs not take stands on public issues. 
Eligible for membership are policy-making executives, their professional advisors, and key administrators in education, church, and government. Left to himself, and occupied with pressing commitments, the Catholic executive simply does not find the motiva­tion needed to undertake the necessary-studies. And even if he did, he could not achieve, by working alone, the same grasp of a complex subject and the same fund of practical experience that result from planned discussion with his fellows. This is where NCCEM comes in. 
The basic idea amounts to something Hke this — that being a businessman is a voca-

The NCCEM Story 
Business as a Vocation: Employment Ethics • Managerial Morals * By Herbert Johnson • Department of Philosophy 
A 
LOT OF good things have come out of Chicago. One of the most signifi­cant developments for which that city may largely claim credit is the National Con­ference of Catholic Employers and Man­agers. First established in this country in 1959, NCCEM groups arc noiv active in Chicago, Detroit, Louisville, New York, 
VRockford, St. Paul, and Newark. Groups are presently being formed in Minneapolis, Cincinnati, San .•\ntonio, and Boston. The chairman of the National Coordinating Committee is Ed»vard Jamieson of Chicago; among other dedicated leaders are Paul Hazard of Chicago, and Notre Dame alum­nus John Caron of Rochelle. A point of interest: Mr. Jamieson's father, W. D. Jamieson, is a Notre Dame graduate of the class of 1905. 
Mr. Caron scr\"ed as an obser\'cr at the eleventh World Congress of UNI.'VPAC, the International Union of Catholic Employers . and Managers, when it met in Santiago, Wchile. in September, 1961. .•\n incidental 
tu t concrete result of that trip is that the Rockford NCCEM has found over a dozen plants willing to cooperate in giving young Latin-American technicians training which they then cany- back to industrial plants in their own countries. This is an alliance for economic progress in really living terms. 
.Another recent activity was the sponsor­ing , at the sixth Annual Convention of the ^^lational Catholic Social .Action Conference 
tion as well as an occupation. .And the first think that NCCEM sees as essential to this vocation is technical, professional compe­tence. It insists that the specific job of a manager is to manage, and to manage effi­ciently, in the interests of his own business and of the economic order of which that business forms a part. He will ser\'e the common good of that economic order pre­cisely through his ability to direct an enter­prise efficiently and profitably. But he will serve it more effectively as he comes to grasp, in full consciousness, the myriad re­lationships that bind his professional per­formance to the larger society to which both he and the business that he helps to direct have a real responsibility. 
To further the growth of this conscious­ness, NCCEM groups use a seminar con­ference centered around case studies of practical business problems at the manage­ment level. The approach, the brochure explains, is to isolate as clearly as possible the ethical issues involved, determine the relevant moral principles, and then seek to make practical managerial decisions. Social encyclicals and books on ethics are indis­pensable but, inevitably, somewhat general. In the seminar conferences, experienced managers who share each other's problems and talk each other's language can and do bring to bear on the highly practical prob­lems considered the light of their own ex­perience and thought. Each member is then 
better able to perform the always difficult 
task of putting Christian social doctrine into 
practice in his oivn business enterprise and 
trade association. This is more than a pious 
hope; it is an existing fact. 
A recommended operating guide is avail­able for new groups. Its study materials bring together relevant principles of ethics and detailed case histories covering a wide range of industrial and commercial prob­lems. Examples are: wage justice, gifts and bribes, retirement policy, advertising, price discrimination, and financing of business ex­pansion. .After a year's program taken from the operating guide, NCCEM groups di­rect their attention to broader socio-eco­nomic problems such as urbanization, the Common Market, and the social responsi­bilities of business. At least one group has planned meetings with labor leaders. Most NCCEM groups meet once or twice a month for a two- or three-hour period. Many groups occasionally hold public meetings featuring guest speakers. Each group has a chairman and a chaplain. Upon request, the national office will assist any group in programming. If there is no group nearby, one can easily be organized. Initial consul­tation OTth the local ordinary is recom­mended. For information, write: 
National Conference of Catholic 
Employers and Managers 
1006 South Michigan .Avenue 
Chicago 5, Illinois. 

A personal note: For a good many years I have been teaching a course in business ethics to students in Notre Dame's College of Business .Administration. The students are willing to be convinced that business and ethics have a good deal to do with each other, but some of them are understandably skeptical about the real possibility of apply­ing what they learn in the calm and safety of the classroom to the jungle into which they know they are going. On this point of application the best argument I have, and a real clincher, is the National Conference of Catholic Employers and Managers. These are hardheaded, successful businessmen. .And they're doing it. 
JOHN B. CARON, '45 He went to Santiago, Chile. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 
N.O. Night Thoughts from Detroit: 


Moral Man in the Modern World 
W
HEN I WAS a Student at the University of Michigan in the 1930's, I gathered that my contemporaries at Notre Dame prided themselves on a kind of he-man asceticism. 
I almost said a kind of "Spartan student life,'* but I would 
imagine the word "Spartan" to Notre Dame alumni, particularly 
in this area, would be just as much anathema as it is to those of 
us who are .Ann Arijor graduates. 
.Ainyway, I understood that the sj-mbols of he-man asceticism 
at Notre Dame included such things as dormitor>' curfews — 
corduroy pants . . . and total reliance for transportation on either 
legs, thumbs or the North Notre Dame .Avenue streetcars. Personal 
automobiles? No such thing. 
I was certainly surprised — and I imagine some of you were 
aghast — to read in the latest alumni magazine — the -April-May 
issue of the Notre Dame Alumnus — the report by a student 
columnist on the campus Mardi Gras week end last March. Not 
only was it described as "the third largest college week end in 
the countr>'" — whatever that means — but it wound up wt h 
a raffle in which they gave away two automobiles! 
Is there no sanctuar>' left untouched by our affluent society? 
.As an outsider I have no idea what a shock this must be to 
you who are steeped in the traditions of an earlier Notre Dame. 
However, as an American Motors man I must say I am deeply concerned over the lack of academic wisdom evidenced by those who selected the prizes for the car raffle. One was a Cadillac, and the other was a Cor\-ette. 
Seriously, however, I am not here to tease you about superficial signs of new affluence at Notre Dame. After all you more than most aliunni groups have made an exceptional contribution to the building of what is a truly great national imiversity. 
But I woidd like to talk to you about being concerned — actively concerned — about the role of our country in the world today — and the role of the individual — particularly of indi­\'iduals such as yourselves with a strong religious orientation and a dedication to living in accordance with the highest moral principles. 
The high degree of alumni loyalty to Notre Dame suggests the existence of a high degree of concern among this group. What I read of the university president. Father Hesburgh, suggests that what you are concerned about principally is excellence — and the responsibility of man to live so as to be worthy of the sight of God. 
All of us — as Americans, as human beings — have particular reason to be concerned about our national destiny as well as our individual destiny. For the long-drawn-out rivalry with Communism has brought into sharp focus the ultimate reliance of our system on the strength and excellence of the indiNidual — in ever>' aspect 
— spiritual, physical, intellectual and economic. 
I
N HIS RECENT encj'clical, "Mater et Magistra," Pope John XXIII stresses the importance of "the freedom of the personal initiative of individual citizens," both in economic and political matters. In fact, in political matters, he says, "experience . . . shows that where the personal initiative of indi\'iduals is lacking, there is political tyranny." 
The calling of the ecumenical council is evidence of the concern of the Catholic Church about a thorough reappraisal of changed modem conditions in the light of eternal principles. 
As Americans, we are likewise engaged in a period of self-criticism and re-evaluation, which extends to practically cverj' aspect of our lives. In a sense, this period of introspection was forced upon us, by the kaleidoscopic changes that have occurred in the world around us. 
To sum up these changes, I'd like to quote a famous passage from an extraordinarily acute obsen-er, whose popularity- has been increasing with age. 
Here is the passage: 

".. . Today there are two great peoples who, starting from 
By Edward L. Cushman, Vice-President, American Motors Corp. 
different points, seem to approach the same destiny; they are the 
Russians and the Anglo-Americans. Both of them have grown in 
obscurity, and, while men were looking the other way, they 
suddenly reached the first rank of nations. At almost the same 
time the world became aware of their birth and of their greatness. (; 
"All other peoples seem to have nearly reached the limits of 
their potentialities, and to have nothing left to do but to maintain 
their present status. But these two peoples are growing; all others 
have stopped or progess only with the greatest effort; these alone 
follow with ease and celerity a course whose limit the eye cannot 
yet detect. . . . 

".. . To attain its ends, the .American society- relics upon 
personal interest and allows free scope to the unguided cnergj' 
and common sense of individuals. The Russian somehow concen­
trates the power of society in one man. The method of the former 
is freedom; of the latter, servitude. 
"Their starting-point is different, their ways are diverse, yet ^ 
each of them seems called by the secret design of Providence to*­
control, some day, the destinies of half the world." 
Most of you of course have recognized it. In spite of its apt 
analysis of the present situation, it is a statement of conclusions 
arrived at about the time Father Stephen Badin was opening his 
log-cabin mission. It was written in 1835 by Alexis de Tocqucville 
as part of his great work, "Democracy in America." 
Against this analysis of the spark that enlivened the American 
spirit at the start of our struggle to grow as a nation, contrast the 
\newpoint of a modem observer. This man is most sympathetic to 
our cause, but is concerned about awakening us to the vigor of 
our earlier years. 

The observer is Dr. Charles Malik (LL.D. '52), a Christian 
Arab, the former foreign minister of Lebanon, and former president 
of the United Nations General .Assembly. He has given us thisV 
friendly warning. 

"You have in your own traditions certain invaluable beliefs 
about man and society, and history and human destiny, and the 
nature of God — beliefs that you should not be ashamed of, that 
you should feel free to export and to teach others. But first you 
must rediscover them yourselves and believe in them profoundly 
yourselves. Many of you have taken life too much for granted. 
Therefore, the great deposit of belief and conviction and interpre­
tation of life which has come to you, you simply don't honor 
enough." 

"The Communist, on the other hand," Dr. Malik says, "is a ^ 
man who has received a tradition and honors it profoundly and" 
believes in it and therefore is willing to propagate it." 
"You are a bit diffident," he says. "Many of you don't know your 
own traditions." 

A perceptive American obser\'er, reporter James Reston of the 
New York Times, sharpens the point with this comment: 
"What could be won before with partial effort, late starts, 
feeble alliances and mediocre administration, can no longer be won 
in a contest with the Communists. It is not that they arc so ef­
ficient but that they are so purposeful. They are all working on 
the main target and we are not. Life, tyranny and the pursuit 
of capitalists is the Russian way of life. They have obliterated the 
difference between war and peace." 
ATTAIN' ITS purposc, the Soviet Union in effect declared war 
To 

against us on the day it was created. The scope and intensity^ of the conflict has been increased vastly by Khrushchev in recent years. The Communist threat to the survival of free men, free worlds and free naUons, is immediate. The rapidity of the Com­munist advance should alarm free men everywhere. 
In our own country there is a new recognition and awareness 
of the fact that wc no longer live in a protected island — that 
we are no longer in a position to carry out whatever "we" want 
to do, or to impose our desires and goals upon other people. 
It is not just the tremendous growth of the So\-iet economyA 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 

and the banding together of the Communist and satellite nations, 
Aan d the increasing dominance of the Commimists in various parts of the world. It is also the rapid economic growth of Western Europe, which in part has been helped by ourselves. 
The emergence of the new .African and Asian nations, and the whole revolution of expectations that is going on in these new countries, where they equate national sovereignty with economic well-being, are a source of increasing concern and are stimulating increasing problems for all of us. 
Internally we wonder about our children and our schools; local and state governments falter; business ethics are questioned: and powerful concentrations in labor, industry and government over­awe the individual. 
We are in an environment of constant threat to our convictions, 
9an d beliefs, and aspirations. Our ability to deal with these prob­lems fundamentally depends on our awareness of what our con­victions genuinely are, and on a greater willingness to sacrifice and work toward the accomplishment of our objectives. 
Encouragingly, these concerns have stimulated re-examination of the various dimensions of our national life, privately and publicly. 
As a businessman, I have been impressed with the self-criticism of business by many engaged in it. The examination we arc under­taking in our schools — the role of science and matbcmatic^ the attack on mediocrity by men like Father Hesburgfa, the kind of resources that should be provided for the gifted and exceptional students — these are encouraging. 
Certainly we are investing in the future of America and the free institutions and human values that are important to us, when we provide adequate educational resources throughout the nation 
— and when we offer all the help our resources permit, to stimu­late educational opportunities throughout the world. 
In political life there is increasing scrutiny of the ability of our governmental units to handle the problems assigned to them. For much too long a period we have had a tendency to ignore the problems at home, and to let some other governmental uiiit some­place else accept responsibility for dealing with the problems that should be dealt with by each of us locally. TIus has led to the rapid and steady erosion of local resources, locally controlled, and the accretion of resources at the state and eventually the national level, to deal with areas which are not national in character and which should not require national action, if localities were meeting their responsibilities. 
(Continued next issue) 



Slant 
theStid^*^^ 

By Frank Dicello, 
Secretary, Notre 
Dome Class of 1963 
Summer in Retrospect: The Military; Student Apostolate in Latin America; Stay Halls and a New Sound on Campus 
'T'HEBE IS a feeling of excitement and 
•^ anticipation on campus today. Classes 
^have begun and a new school year is under­way. The talk in the Huddle and the late night bull sessions, however, are not strictly academic for much has happened to — and much has been accomplished by — my fellow classmates this summer. Then too, there have been some changes in campus life. So let us explore some of the significant events of the past summer, take a look at the cam­pus scene, and possibly a look into the future. 
Many students spent a good part of their summer away from home. Among these 
^vere several hundred of the present seniors who spent from four to si.x weeks with the Army, Naxy, or Air Force to fulfill a re­quirement of their ROTC programs here on campus. This training will culminate when they receive Regular or Reser\'e commissions ne.xt June. 
.•\nother group carried the word of Notre Dame to Latin America. Sixteen students journeyed to Mexico where they engaged in Peace Corps type projects. Once in Mex­ico, seven went to Aguascalientes where they helped in construction of a school and con­vent. The remaining nine went to Tacam­baro, a town in the southwestern part of 
^Mexico. There they constructed two brick 
houses for local residents in the poor dis­trict. In these projects the planning and building was performed by the students and native materials were used. 
.Another group of nine students flew to Ciudad de Dios, (The City of God) a small parish near Lima, Peru. They lived with the Maryknoll Fathers and worked in the 
JU.S. food project, engaged in construction, rand helped the destitute. The following is part of a letter which Archbishop Romolo Carboni, the Apostolic Nuncio in Lima, wrote to Father Hesburgh concerning the group. 
It occured to me that you might be pleased to know how welcome and how effective has been the work of the nine young Notre Dame men who have been working here in Peru under the guidance of Father Lawrence Murphy, M.M., in the slum area called the City of God. 
It was a delight for me to have the opportunit}- to talk with such splendid e-xamples of modem, intelligent. Cath­olic youngsters. . . . 
... . They lost no time in be­coming known and consequently loved by the people with whom they were working. The children followed them everywhere as if they were all Pied Pipers. 
May I take this occasion to thank you sincerely for permitting them to visit us and to work among us, and may I thank also whatever institutions and alumni organizations helped to make their trip possible. I sincerely hope that this will become an annual event. 

Returning to the campus, we see that the biggest change this year is Stay Hall Residence. This plan was adopted in a referendum last spring. In the referendum some supporters of the plan argued that Notre Dame had grown so large that the natural desires for the fraternal companion­ship of a permanent small group was not fulfilled under the old system. It is hoped that under the new system this and other needs can be fulfilled while the traditional family spirit is maintained. The mechanics of the plan are quite simple. As in the past, all freshmen live together. After your sophomore year you may stay in your present room or more into any other room which is being vacated. The greatest number of vacancies occuring in those rooms occupied by graduating seniors. The effects of having sophomores, juniors and senion living in the same hall will be reported upon later in the year. 
With the advent of the school year many organizations have been plaiming for the months ahead. While many are worthy, I mention one organization specifically in this issue since it will serve not only the student body but the surrounding community as well. On September 30, at 5 pjn. WSND­FM became a reality. The student owned and operated station will broadcast music interspersed with lectures and other pro­grams prepared in conjunction with the faculty of the various colleges. Thus they will make available to the people of the community many of the cultural advantages usually restricted to university residents. It is hoped that through "The Creative Sound of a Great University" the true image oi Notre Dame may shine through the hazy cloud of familiarity. 
CIVIL SKVICE EXAMS 

Appliccrtions ore being accepted for the 1963 Federal Service Entrance Ex­amination. Depending on the qualifica­tions of the candidate, starting salaries will be $4,345 or $5,355 a year. Manage­ment Internships with starting salaries of $5,355 or $6,435 a year will also be filled from this examination. Six tests have been scheduled for November 17, January 12, February 9, March 16, Afnl 20, and May 11. The closing date for acceptance of applications for Manage­ment Internships is January 24, 1963. For all other positions, the closing date is April 25, 1963. Details of require­ments, positions to be iUled, and in­structions on how to apply are given in civil service cmnouncement No. 287, ob­tained from post offices, college place­ment offices, civil service regioncd of­fices, or from the U. S. CivU Service Commission, Washington 25, D. C. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 
SCHOLARSHIP FUND FACULTY 
News of the 

It is most gratifying to record the suc­Mr. John A. Buczkowsfci of the Southjl cess of the 1961-62 scholarship campaign. Bend Bar, who taught Torts while Profes- •; The amount raised (from July 1, 1961 to sor Wagner was on leave of absence in :,: 

NOTRE DAME 

June 30, 1962) increased from §48,869.47 1959-60, will continue to give that course. 
in 1961-62 to the record-breaking total of Mr. Buczkowski was awarded an LL.B. 
$67,037.56. here in 1948 and an LL.M. by New York 
LAW SCHOOL University School of Law in 1949. 
This tremendous achievement was made 
MOOT COURT 

Mr. Justice Byron R. \Vhite will preside over the court hearing the final argument in our Annual Moot Court Competition on October 27. Thus a member of the Supreme Court of the United States will preside over our Moot Court for the seventh consecutive year. Sitting with Mr. Justice White wU be Judges Richard T. Rives of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Cir­cuit and George N. Beamer, '29L, of the United States District Court for Northern Indiana. 
The students who will present arguments before this distinguished tribunal are Thomas £ . Brannigan of Chicago, Patrick 
G. CuUen of Baltimore, James L. Lekin of Des Moines, Iowa, and Robert J. Noe of Rock Island, Illinois. 
NEW OFFICERS 

Mr. Camille F. Gravel, Jr., '35, of Alex­andria, Louisiana, vras elected president of the Notre Dame Law Association at the annual meeting at The Law School in June. Also elected were: Honorary President, Wil­liam B. Lawless, '44L, of Buffalo; Vice President, Valentine B. Deale, '39, of Wash­ington, D.C.; Secretary-Treasurer, Mr. George N. Tompkins, Jr., '36L, of New-York City; Executive Secretary, Mr. Thomas 
L. Murray, '51L, of South Bend. Newly elected directors of the Associa­tion are: Mr. Timothy E. KcUey, '48, of Dallas; Mr. Maurice J. Moriarity, '51L, of Chicago; Mr. Ralph G. Schuiz, '53L, of 
Milwaukee; and Mr. Joseph C. Spalding, '52L, of New York City. 
possible by tlic devoted efforts of many people. Most of all, however, it was due to the inspired and untiring labors of Jus­tice William B. Lawless, '44L, of Buffalo, President of the Notre Dame Law .•\ssocia­
tion during 1961-62. 
NATURAL LAW FORUM 

The seventh issue of the Forum, which came off the press last spring, has been verj* favorably received. Contributors to this issue represent six nations (Belgium, Canada, Hol­land, Italy and Japan, as well as the United States) and 20 universities in this country-and abroad. 
PRIZE WINNERS 

Mr. Joseph P. Summers of St. Paul, top man in the graduating class, was the re­cipient of the Ho>-nes .Award of ?100. 
The Farabaugh Prize of $25 and the Law>'ers Title Award of $100 went to Mr. George P. McAndrcws of Clinton, Iowa, Editor-in-Chief of the Notre Dame Lawyer. 
Mr. Geoi^e A. Pelletier of Midland, Texas, was the recipient of the Law Week Award. 
The A. Harold Weber .Awards for the best senior research papers went to Mr. Foster L. Haunz of Louisville, Kentucky ($150) and Robert M. Brady of Celina, Ohio ($100). 
The A. Harold Weber Moot Court Awards were won by Mr. Joseph P. Albright of Parkersburg, West Virginia ($150) and Mr. Louis N. Roberts of Evansville, Indiana ($100). 
Professor Kellenberg's new book on Real I 

Property, recently completed, ^vas a\'ailable ^ 
in mimeograph form for the beginning of " 
classes in September. 
Professor Stephen Kertcsz of the Univer­

sity's Department of Political Science was—' 
appointed to the Faculty to teach the course" 
on International Organizations and Prob­
lems. Professor Kertcsz, who holds a law 
degree from the University of Budapest, is 
a former Hungarian diplomat and has writ­
ten extensively in the field of international 
relations. 
Professor Edward J. Murphy addressed a meeting of the Tri-State Business Law As­sociation at Western Michigan University. His topic was "The Uniform Commercial Code and Trends in Contract Law." He has accepted an invitation to participate in A a seminar for Contracts teachers at Ne\v York University School of Law this summer. 
Professor Elton E. Richter, who will be remembered with affection by his many former students, died of a heart attack in June. He had retired in 1958 after 31 years of teaching in the Notre Dame Law-School. R.I.P. 
Professor W. J. Wagner resigned in order , to accept an invitation to join the Faculty of Indiana University School of Law at Bloomington, where he will set up a com­prehensive program in comparative law — his field of special interest. ^ 
The President appointed Dean O'Meara" a member of the newly created Advisory-Committee on Equal Opportunity in the Armed Ser\-ices, and he was reappointed a Consultant to the Ford Foundation, to ser\'e as a member of the Law Faculty Fellowship Screening Committee. 
WE ARE FREQUENTLY ASKED ABOUT HAVING MASSES OFFERED ON THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 
Masses are promptly offered by Holy Cross Priests on the Notre Dame Campus in: 
The Main Church — Sacred Heart Church 
The Many Chapels in the Basement Church 
The Altars in Corby Hall 
In the Chapels of 17 Residence Halls • 
Priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross are most happy to take care of your intentions. 
Please send Mass intentions to: 
Superior of Corby Hall Alumni Office 
c/o Rev. Ferdinand Brown, C.S.C. c/o Rev. T. J. O'Donnell, C.S.C. 
University of Notre Dame University of Notre Dame 
Notre Dame Indiana Notre Dame, Indiana 
Notre Da7i:e AUunnus. October, 1962 

Views of Jack Tar 
#Resort, West End on Grand Bahama. Right: Smnuning pool and yacht marina. Below: Hotel and 18-hoIe 
.•.golf course. 


IRISH TO INVADE GRAND BAHAMA IN APRIL 
The Notre Dame Clubs of Fort Lauder­dale and Palm Beach will be joint hosts for the 1963 Florida N.D. Convention to be held at West End. Grand Bahama Island, .-^pril 26, 27, and 28, 1963. Convention headquarters will be at the 
fabulous Jack Tar Grand Bahama Club, on 
^h e Bahama Island just 20 minutes from Florida's cast coast. Florida Convention Headquarters are lo­cated at the offices of the Notre Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale, 100 E. Las Olas Boule­
vard, Fort Lauderdale, and March 15, 1963, is the deadline for resen-ations. The phone number for convention headquarters is J.-\ckson 2-7951. 
All conventioneers will register at the Grand Bahama Club, Friday, .'\pril 26, 1963, with a big fish fry scheduled for that evening. 
All day Saturday, .April 27, alumni will be free to do whatever pleases them and the problem will be tr>-ing to crowd in all the fun avTiilable. 
A 3:00 p.m. cocktail party will begin the festivities Saturday evening, with a banquet following. After Sunday Mass there will be a breakfast, %vith a buffet luncheon preced­ing departure from Grand Bahama back to Florida. 
.Alumni attending the convention will fly from Florida cities via Mackey -Airlines. All events, lodging and fares for two will be $130.50, from Tampa; from West Palm Beach, ? 100.00; from Fort Lauderdale, $106.00; and from Miami, $110.00. 
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION: TWO SILVER JUBILEES 
(Picture on page 34) 

'T'HE SPRING semester for the College of 
W.1 Business Administration at Notre Dame completed twenty-five years service in the Department of Accountancy for Professor James Dincolo and Associate Professor Ber­nard B. Finnan. The half centurj' repre­sented in this pair of Professors working in the same Department is somewhat unique in a University even as large as the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. Early in May the pair was honored with a "Testimonial" Dinner at Eddie's Restaurant in South Bend. 
Data on James Dincolo is as follows: Mr. and Mrs. Dincolo came to South Bend in September of 1937 from St. John's Univer­^t y at Collegeville, Minnesota. He had received his Bachelor of Business Adminis­tration Degree from Boston University in 1930, taught at the University of Puerto Rico, 1931 to 1934 in the Accounting De­partment; at St. John's University, 1934 to 1937, and has taught at Notre Dame from 1937 to 1962. He received hb Master of Commercial Science from Boston Univer­
own Accounting Practice which he has op­erated since 1946. Since the end of World War II, Mr. Dincolo has served in the capacit)' of Head, Department of -Account­ancy, University of Notre Dame, for four­teen years. Two years ago he was named to the State Board of Certified Public Ac­countants for Indiana and will ser\*e as President of the Board for 1963. The Dincolos have two sons, James, Notre Dame, 1959 with honors, who is working for Touche, Ross, Bailey, & Smart at Detroit, a major national public accounting firm; .Andrew, Notre Dame, 1966, who is just graduating with high honors from St Jo­seph's High School, South Bend, and is enrolled at Notre Dame for the Fall semes­ter; and a daughter, Mary -Anne, who is a sophomore at St. Mar>-'s Academy. 
Mr. Finnan came to Notre Dame in Sep­tember of 1937 from .Accounting Practice in New York. He graduated with a Bache­lor of Science degree from Middlebury College, at Middleburj*, Vermont, in 1931; he received his Master of Business Adminis­tration degree from New York University in 1937 and, he was licensed as a C.P.A. 
rolled in Ferris Institute at Big Rapids, Michigan, studying toward a degree in Pharmacy; and, John, who is a student at John Adams High School in South Bend. 
Shortly after their arrival at South Bend in 1937, Mr. Dincolo and Mr. Finnan be­came active "partners" in golf, handball, tennis and other sports. Evidencing their interest in sports, they have served as statis­ticians for home games from 1938 to 1962, and both of them are strong supporters of Notre Dame programs. 
Recently, the Dincolos moved from their long-established residence on St. Louis Boule­vard to a new home on Churchill Drive. The Finnans make their home, as they have the past fifteen years, on Cedar Street. 
There has been one interruption in the long years of service to the Department of .Accountancy in the College of Business Ad­ministration at the University of Notre Dame for Mr. Dincolo and Mr. Finnan, from 1941 to 1945, during World War 11 
— they both taught Chemistry. With this one exception their service to the Depart­ment and to the College has represented almost fifty years of continuous service. 
"ty in 1938, and was licensed as a C.P.A. for the State of Indiana in 1945. The —Ray M. Powell, Head «I the State of Indiana in 1941. He has his Finnans have two sons. Lacy, who is en­Dept of Accountancy 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 S 
Varsity Alphabetical Roster' 
(As Of August 14, 1962.) 

NO. NAME POS. AGE HT. WT. HOMETOWN HIGH SCHOOL CL.t 
40 •Ahem, William Robert FB 21 M 193 Evanston, 111. Loyola Academy — -Sr. 
5» Allen, Wayne Nicholas G 20 6-1 205 Wilmington, Del. . Salesianum Anton, John James T 20 6.1 220 St. Louis, Xlo. St. Louis U. H.S. sm 
Antongiovanni, John Stanley KB 19 M 175 Bakersfield, Cal. . Garces Memorial _ 63 Arrinpton, Richanl G 20 3-11 220 Erie, Pa. Erie East 66 Atamian, John Brian G 20 6-1 203 .Viagara Falls, N.Y. . Bishop Duffy -So. 
Bamatd, John Phillip HB 20 3-10 185 Kansas City, Kan. „ Bishop Miegc 
76 Bcdnar, George T 20 6.3 235 Shavertown, Pa. Kingston Catholic (Kingston, Pa.}Jn 53 Billy, Francis Anthony C 19 6-1 213 Clairton, Pa. Clairton So. 22 Blicy, Ronald Jerry HB 20 6-1 190 New York, N.Y. Samuel Tilden (Brooklyn, N.Y.)_So. 8 Bonvechio, Alex Carl 3-10 185 Walnwright, Ohio _ Dennison St. Mary's So. 
°l 
19 18 
86 •Boulac, Brian Xlichael 21 6-4 193 Olympia. Wash. Olympia Sr, 71 Brocke, James Charles T 6-2 220 Crown Point, Ind. _ " * So. 
Crou-n Point _

20 
2 •Budka, Frank Charles QB M 185 Fompano Beach, Fla. Pompano . Jr. 
20 
51 ••Burke, Edwaid T 6-1 230 Chii^o, III. Mendel Sr. 57 Bums, William Joseph . C 6-1 210 Philadelphia, Pa. West Catholic Jr. 
19 60 Cant>ll, James Samuel . G 6-1 215 Atlanta, Ga. Marist 
19 
•jj ±.
70 Cullen, John Joseph . T 6-4 220 San Francisco, Cal. _ Sacred Heart . Davis, Nat HB 19 3-9 165 Huntsville, Texas Huntsv-ille Denpery, Vincent Paul — E 18 6-2 205 Philadelphia, Pa. LaSalle Devine, Timothy Louts _^ HB 19 6-0 183 Jackson, Mich. St. John's 
69 DiCarlo, Michael Anthony G 20 3-10 205 Clairton, Pa. Clairton *» 20 Dupuis, Richard Eugene _ HB 20 3-10 180 Windsor-Ontario Assumption __ 
78. Etten, Nicholas „ T 20 6-0 220 Chicago, 111. St. Ignatius » 
42 Farrell, Joseph Edu-ard „ FB 20 6-0 200 Chicago, 111, Mendel Geraghty, John , E 19 6-2 190 Washington, N.Y. Chaminadc — 
±. 

93 •Gober\-ilIe, Thomas E 18 6-3 210 Chicago, 111. Mendel 37 ••Gray, Gerard Edward FB 22 6-2 195 Baltimore, Md. Calvert Hall . 58 Harding, Thomas Daniel C 19 6-0 220 Woodstock, 111. Marian Central Catholic So. 
Hamisch, James Phillip G 19 5-11 215 Poland, Ohio Poland So. 54 ••Hoerster. Ed C 20 6-1 220 Chicago, III. St. Rita ; Sr. 44 Hogan, Donald^ John HB 19 3-11 185 Chicago, 111. St. Ignatius So. 
Huarte, John Gregory _ 18 6-0 185 Anaheim, Cal. Mater Dei (Santa Ana, Cal.) 
Q5 

i
75 Humenik, Da\'id James 20 6-3 235 Port Vue, Pa. Glassport . -Jr. ajcsnica, Boyd Walter 19 6-2 235 Manchester, N.H. Central 
T T

kelly, James 20 6-2 200 Clairton, Pa. Clairton 
E

77 Kolasinskt, Daniel Ed\\*in » 21 6-2 220 Toledo, Ohio Central Catholic .
T

91 Kolski, Steven Joseph 21 6-3 210 Hialeah, Fla. Archbishop Curley _Sr. 
E

52 Kostelnik, Thomas Martin „ 19 6-2 200 Hiller, Pa. John Brushear (Brownsville, Pa.) So. 
C

55 Kutzavitch, WHliam Andre^v 20 6-2 200 Moon Run, Pa. Montour Sr. 
C

3 ••Lamonica, Darylc _ 21 6-2 205 Fresno, Cal. Clovis (CIo\-is, Cal.) ^r . 
65 •Lchmann, Joseph Robert (Bob) _ 21 6-0 213 Lou!5\'ille, Ky. Flaget 32 ••Lind, Harry Norman (Mike) _ 21 6-1 200 Chicago, lU. 
°a i:^
9 Longo, Thomas Victor 20 6-1 200 Lyndhurst. N.J. > Lyndhurst -So. 23 --- *-• -FB 19 180 ___  __. 
•Macbonald. Thomas Louis ^ 3-11 Downey, Cal. Pius X 62 Maglicic, Kenneth Michael QB 19 3-10 215 Cleveland, Ohio St. Joseph . 35 Mattera, Vincent HB 19 6-3 220 San Pedro, Cal. Mar>- Star of the Sea So. 
±. 

41 Kfaxu-ell, Joseph Scott G 21 3-11 185 Glenside, Pa. LaSallc (Philadelphia, Pa.) Sr. 4 Meagher. Thomas FB 19 6-0 163 Louisville, Ky. Flaget Jr. Meyer, John Edwin __. FB 19 6-2 210 Chicago, 111. Brother Rice So. 28 ••Minik, Frank . °1 21 5-7 165 Vandergrift, Pa. _ Vandergrift Sr. 
HB 

Mittelhauser, Thomas Patrick 19 3-11 185 PitUburgb. Pa. So. HiUs Catholic (.Mt. Leb., Pa.)So. 
HB 

Monahan, Joseph Michael 20 6-2 200 Areola, III. .Areola Jr. 
E

MuIIer, Nicholas Guthrie »_ -19 6-3 205 Ducor, Cal. Porterville Union 
E ±
Mulligan, Patrick Shane ». — 19 5-11 190 Arlington, Va. O'Conr.ell 
E

83 ••Murphy, Dennis Michael 21 6-2 200 South Bend, Ind. _ John Adams 
E

92 Murray, John . 21 6-1 205 Newark, N.J. Seton Hall . -Jr. 
E C

50 Nicola, Noiman Joseph .. 19 6-0 235 Canton, Ohio Central Catholic —So. HB 
21 O'Hara, Charles Robert 21 6-0 190 Milmont, Pa. St. James (Chester, Pa.) Sr. 74 Olosky, Martin Louis 20 6-1 225 Flint, Mich. Holy Redeemer . , ^'^k
T FB 

O'Rourke, James 20 3-11 185 St. Louis, Mo. Christian Brothers Jrj ' QB 
O'Shaughnessy, Patrick _ 19 6-2 190 Wichita, Kans. Kapaun Memorial . „So. Paolillo. Leonard Frank .. 19 3-10 195 Fresno, Cal. Sap Joaquin 
FB E

81 Papa, Robert Clement _ _ 20 6-2 204 Clifton, N.J. __ _ Clifton ._So. 73 Penman, Eugene _____ 19 6-2 225 Chicago, 111. ___ Mount Carmel -So. II Pfeiffer, Wilham Martin.. QB T 20 6-0 190 Chicago, 111. DePaul -Jr. 43 Phillips, Dennis Joseph -21 6^» 185 
HB Mt. Lebanon, Pa. ilt. Lebanon -Jr. 
46 Pierson. Glen Russell' 1 HB 20 3-11 185 Orlando, Fla. Bishop ^foorc 80 Pivec, David John E 19 6-3 215 Baltimore. Md. Patterson 47 Rakers, James Robert _ _ HB 19 6-4 210 Quincy, 111. Christian Bros. .. _So. 
±

6 Rascher, NoAcrt _____ QB 20 6-1 180 Cleveland, Ohio Cathedral Latin -Jr. Rassas, Nicholas Charles . HB IS 6-0 180 Winnetka, III. Loyola .^cademy (Wilmettc, Ill.)_So. 
Rieder, Michael Joseph _ QB 20 5-11 183 Madison, Wise. _ Edgewood So. 
Rodgers, Lionel . HB 20 3-11 180 Vallejo, Cal. St. Vincent -Jr. RueT, John Timothy G 18 6-1 210 Chicago, 111. _ _ Mount Carmel _So. 
•Rutkowsld, Edward John _ HB 21 6-1 195 Kingston, Pa. Kingston -Sr. Schrader, Joseph Herman . E 19 6-3 190 Lafayette. Ind. _ Central Catholic . -So. Selzer, Jack . HB 19 6-0 200 Fresno. Cal. San Joaquin _So. Sens, Douglas _______ _ HB 19 6-0 180 Erie, Pa. McDowell -So­
87 •Sherlock, James Francis E 21 64) 200 Chicago. Ill, Mount Carmel „Sr. 
Shimrak, Richard John _ T 19 6-2 240 Baden, Pa. ___ _ Ambridgc (Ambridgc, Pa.) 94 •Simon, John Edward __ _ E 19 6-3 215 St. Louis, Mo. St. Louis U. H.S. -.Jr. 56 Slalkosky, John Paul C 21 6-4 245 Bethlehem. Pa. _ Allcntown Catholic 85 Snow, Jack Thomas E 19 6-2 205 Loni; Beach, Cal. St. Anthony ,84 •Stephens, Warren Clayton (Clay) E 19 6-3 210 Btu*hngame. Cal. Serra _Jr. 
5 Szot, Denis Edward QB 20 64) 183 Chicago, 111. Mendel . -Jr. Telfer, Robert Charles . FB 19 6-2 230 Edmore, Mich. Edmore -So. 24 Tubinis, Gerald Chiistopher . HB 21 6-2 200 Niagara Falls, N.Y. Niagara Falls _ -So. 
Vitalich. Nicholas HB 19 5-11 190 San Diego, Cal. St. Augustine — 90 Vogel, Harold Raymond E 21 6-2 195 Pittsburgh, Pa. Mt. Leoanon _Sr. 
Vomero, Ronald Anthony G 20 5-10 215 Erie, Pa. . Cathedral Prep _Jr. 36 Williams, Thomas FB 19 5-10 193 Tiffin. Ohio Calvert 67 Wood, Gregory Matthew G 19 6-0 200 San Francisco, Cal. . Ifpatius _Sr. 
Zasada, Richaitl Phniip T 20 M 225 BuETalo, N.Y. Bishop Timon _ -So. 
* Denotes Monograms Won. t Classes Are As Of September 1962. 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 
Diamond Jubilee of N.D. Football 
1887 -1962 
1887 TEAM 

H. Jcwett, J. Cusack, H. Luhn, G. Carticr, G. A. Houck, F. Fehr, Pete Nelson, B. Sawkins, W. Springer, 
T. O'Resan, P. P. Maloney. 
ALL-AMERICANS 

1903 Louis Salmon 1909 M. Harry Miller 1913 Gus Dorais, Ray Eichenlaub 1916 Charles Bachman, Stan Cofall 1917 Frank Rydzcwski 1920 George Gipp, Roger Kiley 1921 Eddie Anderson, Roger Kilev. John Mohardl 
kl922 Paul Castner 
'1923 Har\-ey Brown, Don Miller 1924 James Crowley, Elmer Layden, Harry Stuhldreher, Adam AValsh 1926 Arthur Boeringer 1927 Christv Flanagan, John Smith 1928 Fred Miller 1929 Jack Cannon, Frank Carideo 1930 Marty Brill, Frank Carideo, Bert Metzger, Marchy Schwartz 1931 Nordy Hoffman, Joe Kurth, Marchy Schwartz, Tommy Yarr 1932 Joe Kurth, George Melinkovich 1934 Jack Robinson 1935 Wayne Millner. Bill Shakespeare 1936 John Lauter 1937 Joe Beinor, Chuck Sweeney 1938 Joe Beinor, Earl Brown 
^1939 William (Bud) Kerr 
Pi 941 Bemie Crimmins, Bob Dove 1942 Bob Dove 1943 Angelo Bertelli, Pat Filley, Creighton Miller, Jim White, John Vonakor 1945 John Mastrangelo 1946 George Connor, John Lujack, John Mastrangelo, George Strohmeyer 1947 George Connor, Ziggy Czarobski, Bill Fischer, Leon Hart, John Lujack 1948 Bill Fischer, Leon Hart, Emit Sitko, Marty Wendell 1949 Leon Hart, Jim Martin, Emil Sitko, Bob Williams 1950 Jerome Groom, Bob Williams 1951 James Mutscheller, Robert Toneff 
|1952 John Lattner 1953 Art Hunter, John Lattner, Don Penza, Jim Schrader. Neil Worden 1954 Ralph Guglielmi, Frank Varrichione 1955 Pat Bisceglia, Paul Hornung, Don Schaefer 1956 Paul Homung 1957 Al Ecuyer, Nick Pietrosante 1958 Al Ecuyer, Nick Pietrosante. Monty Stickles 1959 Monty Stickles 1960 Myron Pottios 1961 Nick Buoniconti 
1937 TEAM 

GOLDEN JUBILEE YEAR TEAM 
Joseph Zwcrs, Capt., Joe Ructz, Chuck Sweeney, John Murphy, Len Skoglund, Joe Kuharich, Andy Puplis, Chuck O'Reilly, Ne«n (Bunny) McCormick, Pat McCar­thy, Ed Simonich, Joe Beinor, Paul Kcll, Lou Zontini, Eorl Brown, Walt Marshall, Alec ShcUogg, Adrian Race, Ennio Arbeit, Denis Emanuel, Harry Stevenson, Ed 
ALL TIME RECORD 
WON LOST TIED 459 121 35 
1912 TEAM 

SILVER JUBILEE YEAR TEAM 
Charles E. Dorais, Capt., Freeman Fitzgerald, Walter S. Yimd, Alvin Berger, Raymond Eichenlaub, Keitli Jones, Joseph Pliska, Knute Rockne, Charles F. Crowley, Ralph Lathrop, Albert Fceney, Edwin Harvat, Charles T. Fin­egan, E. Gushurst. 
COACHES  
WON  LOST  TIED  
1894  J.  L. Morison  _  3  2  1  
1895  H. G. Hadden  3  1  0  
1896-9818991900-01  Frank E. Hering Tames McWceney Patrick O'Dea  —  12 6  14  6 3 4  1 1 0  
1902-03  James Faragher  13  2  2  
1904  Louis Salmon  5  3  0  
1905  Henry J. McGlcw.  5  4  1  
1906-07  Thomas Barry  12  1  1  
1908  Victor M. Place.  _  8  1  0  
1909-101911-12  Frank C. Longman L. H. Marks.".  11  13  1 0  9 9  
1913-17  Jesse C. Harper.  33  5  1  
1918-30  Knute Rockne  105  12  5  
1931-33  Heartly (Hunk) Anderson  16  9  9  
1934-401941-431944  Elmer Layden _ Frank Leahy Edward McKeever  47  24 8  13 3 9  3 3 0  
19451946-531954-58  Hugh Devore Frank Leahy Terry Brennan  7  63  32  2 8 18  1 6 0  
1959­  Joe Kuharich  13  18  0  

1962 TEAM 
DIAMOND JUBILEE YEAR TEAM 
Mike Lind, Capt, Ed Hocrster, Daiyle Lamonica, Frank Minik, Ed Burke, Tom Gobeiville, Tom Mac­Donald, Jack Simon, Dave Humenik, Jim CanoD, Bob Lehmann, Gerry Gray, Brian Boulac, Vince Demieiy, Jim Kelly, Steve Kolski, John Meyer, Denny Murphy, Bob Papa, Dave Pivec, Jim Sherlock, Jack Snow, Clay Ste­phens, Bud Vogel, John Murray, George Bednar, Jim Brocke, Jack Cullen, Nick Etten, Dan Kolasiraki, Marty Olosky, Gene Penman, Wayne Allen, Dick Airington, John Atamian, Mike Di Carlo, Ken Maglicic, Frank Billy, Greg Wood, Bill Bums, Bill Kutzavitcfa, Tom Kostdnik, Nick Nicola, John Slafkosky, Sandy Bonvechio, Frank Bndka, John Huarte, Tom Longo, Tom Meagher, Pat O'Shangh­nessy. Bill Pfeiffer, Norb Rascher, Denis Szot, Jack Barn­ard, Ron Bliey, Dick Dupuis, Don Hogan, Chariie CHara, Denny Phillips, Jim Rakers, Ed Rutkowski, Jerry Tnbims, Bill Ahem, Joe Farrell, Vince Mattcra, Scotty Maxwell, Bob Tclfer, Tom Williams. 
Longhl,ToncUi.   Gene  Ely,  Joe  Thesing,  August  Bossu,  Mario  NOTE: Because the history of Notre Dame football was actually interrupted in its early years, the Diamond Jubilee of the con­ 
secutive history of the sport at the University will be officially  
obsen,-ed in  1963.—Ed.  
Notre  Dame  Alumnus,  October,  1962  11  

Going 

Vetvi 
a 
n 
h 

ALMOST UNNOTICED in the excitement and confusion of late summer, while the campus rang with the jubilant noise of simultaneous con­struction on a 13-stor\' Memorial Librar)', a Radiation Center, and a Computer Center (each ranking with the finest on college campuses today), a burly army of bulldozers moved in north of the construc­tion area to demolish a beloved but unsightly vestige of AVorld AVar 
II. Vetville (or "Fertile Acres"), a teraporar)' town of crude, shingled, barrack-like duplexes, was built to house the families of the "G.I. Bill" influx in the mid-Forties and survived as a monument and land­mark, as well as shelter for the families of nearly two generations of 
W.W. 11, Korean and "Cold War" veterans. Families were relo­cated in nearby Universitj' Village as wheeled behemoths swiftly battered, gathered and burned the old houses to clear a quadrangle between the Library and tlie new Stepan Center for future eastward expansion of the Notre Dame campus. 
Going . 
M:^:
mmmr^d 

GONE! 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 
Notre Dame men through the years 

have answered to a bell. It became so much a part of your life that it was almost unnoticed. Analyze it for your­self. Now that you are reminiscing you hear a symphony of bells, and, like sec­tions in a great symphonic group, each 
MAN and the 
MOMENT 
has its sweetness. The morning bell 
was never too kind, the tone was a demanding raspy one. It still is. But 
By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '41 
so is the bell of the alarm clock that, 
A
COLLEGE CAMPUS is generally thought of as a place of books, of i\y-covered halls, of tree-lined wind­ing walks, of young men and women on tlie move. This is a rather good gen­eral picture. But then each college and university has some individual physical characteristic that identifies it. Most times this indixadual or singular char­acteristic just happens. With the pass­

• ing of time it becomes a part of tradi­tion and grows in love. At Notre Dame the Golden Dome has been tlie sjTnbol of the school. In song, in writing, on the rugged roads of life mere mention of "the Dome" and the Lady upon it brings back memories of happy years gone by. The campus of Our Lady is blessed in many ways. Mention of her campus also calls to mind the church spire 
^ sparkling in the sun, the cool shadows and soft lights of a grotto, the tempting waters of twin lakes. Buildings, like people and flowers, come and go, but a montage of memories. . . . Notre Dame is more than a silent picture. All the senses come to Ufe, and for the sense of hearing the sound of Notre Dame is a bell. Some might say the soimd of Notre Dame is a young 0 voice shouting. There are shouts, but eveiy college campus has the same shouting. Close your eyes and listen. The very air that covers the campus has genera­tions of bell sounds. Day and night, day on day, season on season, always, and in varied ways, there is the sound of a bell. The beginning of Notre Dame, with Father Sorin and the sbc brothers of Holy Cross, was tlie frozen whiteness of winter. They were men on a mis­0sion, men who could say with meaning that they had "promises to keep and miles to go before we sleep." The sound of a bell called them to the do­ings of the day, to rise, to pray, to Holy Mass, to eat, to work, to sleep . . . per­chance to dream. A bell was their voice 
^t o unity, their call to common life, their teller of the seasons. 
Some fine day when you are back this way, stop by the old log chapel. Say a prayer for the dead pioneers. If the wind is right, and not too sharp, you will hear the bells of long ago. It's a crisp sound, almost tinny. But, then, this could be a sign of age — not just in the bells but in your hearing. The bells in winter have an ice sound and a crackle, the warm sound of flames against a log. The seasons are in them — bird songs in the air, spring stirrings in the earth and buds about to break. The sounds of summer are in them — of insects flying, of floating fields, of growing flowers. With a slight change of the wind you will hear the har\'est bells. They are a wagon-wheel sound, a pumpkin sound, sickles s%vishing and leaves falling. 
As the seasons turned the campus grew and the sounds of bells grew louder. The soft sound of the Mass bells and the prayer bell became the harsh sound of the class bell on many parts of the campus. This was as it should be. And in the towers of the first brick church, bells from a French foundry were blessed and taught to sing. This is a long time back, 1856, when these first church bells were blessed by Archbishop Purcell. There were twenty-three bells then, big bells, lusty; and many a farm clock for miles around was set by these bells of Notre Dame. 
The sound of Notre Dame is, indeed, a bell sound. Not a day has ever gone by since 1842 but a bell has left its echo in the air. I know we sound a wooden clapper on certain days in Holy Week, but this part of the liturg)' is a wood sound all its own, sadder than the tolling of a bell, wooden like the cross Christ carried. 
Ring Dem Bells 
^ 
(with acknowledgment to 
J. Donne & E. A. Poe) 

today, clangs so beastly loud to get you up and put. 
Class bells had a sound all their own. The ring that sent you to class had a snarl, a sergeant's bark to it. The bell that rang to end the class was musical. You shuffled your feet when it rang, but this was to let the teacher know he could cut off his lecture. Dinner bells and supper bells had a gulping sound and the noise of dishes in them. And bells at night, at check time, had any­thing but a lullaby hit to them. Those were the everyday bells. 
Sunday bells and the chimes from the tower were, and are, the greatest. They set a mood and give stories of a day and a life. For example, on Sunday they gave a "let's get to church" sound and they made you hurry. Then the Angelus . . . this was the theme of pass­ing hours. And when word came that one of the religious had died, you heard the deep, slow, bass tones that told you to say a prayer for someone gone to God. But most times you rushed on, and just wondered who died, and if you knew him. 
At another time I'll tell you some of the history behind the bells at Notre Dame. They are ringing now and I must leave you. I leave you with the hope that these bells of Notre Dame and their ringing in your memory may bring to each of you "voices of for­gotten friends, the old plans and de­signs, the old energies and brightnesses of the unshadowed life." The sound of Notre Dame is a bell, and the bells of Notre Dame leave an imperishable memory among perishable men. 
Notre Dame-Alumnus, October, 1962 13 
'Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ALABAMA 

John A. O'Brien, Jr., '51, 1465 Linda Visla Dr., Recent Forest. Birmingham, Ala. 
ARIZONA 

Photnlx—Vlr. William J. Dimn, '47, 310 E. Keini Dr., Phoenix, .Arizona. TiirJon—Paul A. Malz, '56, 7(M9 Calle Canis, Tuc­son, Arizona. 
.\RKANSAS 

Fori irail/i—James A. Gilker, '48. 3715 Free Ferr>' Rd., Fort Smith, .\rk. LillU Rort—James E. Madigan, '43, 4617 Cnist­wofid. Little Rock, .Ark. 
CALIFORNIA 

BaktrsfiM—KAxcd L. Bamelt. '56, 630 Golden Sutc Huy., Bakersfield, CJalif. Centra;—Harold A. Bair, '29 (Secretary), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, Calif, Greater Long Beach Area—Edmond Shceran, '31, 206 E. 4th, Long Beach 12, CaliL Los Angeles—Kohcn L. Ger\'ais, '55, 3314 Sautellc Blvd., .Apt. 13, West Los Angeles. Calif. Arorl*ern—William C. McGo»-an, '41. 1709 New­castle Dr., Los Altos, Calif. Orange County—F. Steve Finan, '37, 2864 Monroe, Anaheim, Calif. Sacramento—Alfred .A. Kaelin, '55, 2784 Harkness St., Sacramento 18, Calif. San Diego—John H. Cawley, Jr., '49, 2836 Deer-park Dr., San Diego 10, Calif. San Fernando Vattey—Thoams W. Dunlay, '52, 14944 Napa St., Van Nu>^, Calif. San Gabriel Valley—John P. Framplon, '49, 2001 
N. Garey Ave., Pomona, Calif. 
COLORADO 

Colorado Spitngs—Vfiilhim J. Donclan. Jr., '29, 1800 Mesa Ave, Broadmoor, Colorado Springs, Colo. Denver—Robert H. Zeis, Jr., *54, c/ o The Denver Pott, 650—15 St., Denver 2, Colo. 
CONNECTICUT 

Connecticut Valley—Viohcxt L. McGoldrick, '56, Old County Highway, East Granby, Conn. Fairfield CounO^William Mulrcnan, '37, 100 Tide-mill Terr., Fairfield, Conn. Naugatuck—Domenic A. Narducci, Jr., '52, 44 Bea­con Manor Rd., Naugatuck, Conn. New Haoen~Jyr. Robert T. Warner, '53, I960 Whitney .^ve., Hamden 17, Conn. 
DELAWARE 

Richaid P. Hairsine, '55. 2219 Hcarn Rd.. Fairfax, Wilmington 3, Delau'are. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

William B. IiCddcndorf. '43, Mack-KHlIer Candle Co., 5329—»2 St., N.W., Washington 15, D.C. 
FLORIDA 

Cnilra/—Donald J. Smjih, '49, 955 Leigh Ave., Orlando, Fla. for« Lauderdale—Fank L. McGinn, '52, 2217 N.E. Second St., Fompano Beach, Fla. Greater Miami—Vr. William J. McSlianc, '51, 4699 Ponce de Leon Blvd., Coial Gables 46, Fla. Nortk Florida—GCT:M B . Johnson, 'SO, 2644 Red Fox Rd., Change P^k, Fla. Palm Beach County—Edward D. Lewis, '54. 1114 Russljme Dr., West Palm Beach, Fh>. Pemsacota—Patrick J. Gunning, '53, 3770 Summer Dr., Pensacola, Fla. • St. 'Pel€Tsimrt-T*mpa—\t3Tk E. Mooncy, '26, 4525 Gaines Rd., Tampa, Fla. 
14 Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 
GEORGIA 

.4//oii/o—Robert F. Hochman, '50, 210 North -Ave., N.W.. .Apt. 31, Atlanta 13, Ga. 
HAWAII 

Neil Vasconccllos, '54, 1524 Ulupuni St.. Kailiia, Hauaii. 
IDAHO 

J. Richard Cornell, '59, 2408 Broad\>-ay, Boise, Idaho. 
Idaho Falls—James Xf. Brady, '29, P.O. Box 2148, Idaho Falls. Idaho. 
ILLINOIS 

.4iirora—Edward J. Fanning, '39, Fanning Chevrolet, Inc., 230 S. Broaduay, Aurora. 111. Central Illinois—Thomas Hamilton, Jr., *53, 3349 
S. Fifth St., Springfield, 111. Chicago—Norman J. Barry, '44, 105 S. LaSallc St., Chicago 3, 111. D<-ro/i<r—Geotgc H. Hubbard, '54, 139 W. Main St., Decatur, 111. Eastern Illinois—Edu-aid J. Layden, '41, Hoopeston, III. Fox rof/o^-George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St., Elgin, 111. Joliet—Eugene R. Funk, '59, 715 Second Ave., Joliet, 
III. Kankakee KoHry—Thomas J. Reynolds, '54, 34354 
S. Winiield, Kankakee, III. McHenry Counlj—Paul D. McConnell, '32, 422 
Harrington PI., Woodstock, III. Peoria—Cliarlcs Pcrrin, '50, 2101 Independence Dr., 
R.R. 1, Pekin, HI. KorlL/ori/—Albert Carroll, '22, 206 W. State St., Rocklord, 111. Rock River Ko/fo—Luke R. Morin, '53, 523 N. DLxon Ave, Dixon, 111. 
Southern Cook County—Robert N. Caffarclli, '55, 231 E. 22 St., Chicago Heights, 111. 
INDIANA 

Calumet Dbtrict—HsxiA W. Ogn-n, '53, 5946 Hoh­nian Ave., Hammond, Ind. Eastern Indiana—WiBam B. Cronin, '31, 521 E. JefTcison, Hartford City, Ind. Elkhart—^Austin Gildea, '30, 5 St. Joseph Manor, Elkhart, Ind. EronJciHe—Charles A. Manion, '53, 528 S. .Alvoid Blvd., Evansville, Ind. Fort irojne—Robert R. Luther, '49, 443 Kinnaird Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. Indianapolis—Dr. Paul F. Muller, '37, 4050 Wash­ington Blvd., Indianapolis 5, Ind. Michigan CiO^Donald F. Wentland, '51. 205 Greenwood, Michigan City, Ind. St. Joseph Koffo'—Gerald Hammes, '53. 545 E. .Angela, South Bend, Ind. Terre Haute—James E. Sullivan. '55, 539 Monterey, Terrc Haute, Ind. Wabash Valley—Jama W. Glascr, '50, P.O. Box 59, Lafayette, Ind. 
IOWA 

Burlington—Richard Dclane>-. '37, 1000 N. Fifth St., Burlington, Iowa. Cedar Rapids—George Benning, '49, R.R. 3, Cedar 
Rapids, loua. 
Des Moines—James F. Bocscn, '54, 4109—30 St., Des Kfoines 10, Iowa. Dubuque—Kcv. William Knnscfa, '37, Our Lady of Seven Dolors Rectory, Festina, Iowa. 
Sioux-Land—Raymond B. Duggan, '43, 3244 Jack­son, Sioux City 4, Iowa. 
Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Molinc, E. Mo-line)—John L. Bush, '52, 1609 Central Ave, Bctlendorf, Iowa. 
KANSAS 

Eastern Kansas—T. Henr;- Devlin, '49, 2203 College, (J Topeka, Kattsas. 5<i/."«a—Albert J. Schwartz, '37, 130 S. Front St., Salina, Kansas. Wichila—John L. Weigand, '54, 303 N. Dellrose, Wichita 8, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY 

Carl B. Ratterman, '37, 428 Twinbrook Rd., Louis­ville, Ky. 
LOUISIANA 

Xew Orleans—John E. Petitbon, '52, C. A. Sjiorl & Co., Commerce BIdg., New Orleans, La. M Northern Louisiana—George J. Despot, '45, 517 Market, Shrrvcport, La. 
MAINE 

William M. Salter, '57, 34 Windsor Ave., .Augusta, Maine. 
MARYLAND 

Baltimore—^Villiam L. Gaudreau, '53, Professional BIdg., 330 X. Charles St., Baltimore 1, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS 

Berkshire County—Frank M. Linehan, *45, 29 Burr -J Dr., Dalton, Mass. BoJion—Timothy J. Toomcy, '30, 12 Windemerc A\-c., Arlington 74, Mass. Pioneer rc/Zo^Danicl J, O'Connell, '22, 11 Pynchon Rd., Holyoke, Mass. 
MICHIGAN 

Battle Creek—Ravmond R. Alien, '40, 409 Orchard PI., Battle Creek, Mich. Berrien County—Br. Paul Leonaid, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, Niles, Klich. ^ Blue Water D«/nV/—William L, Wilson, '42, 4080 " Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. Dearborn—Richard W. King. '37, 436 Highvtew, Dearborn, Mich. Bc/roi/—William C. Roncy, Jr., '49, 2 Buhl BIdg., Detroit, Mich, f/inf-Waiter G. Nagel, '56, I92I Castle Lane, Flint, Mich. Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn, '40, Wright & Zinn, Michaels BIdg., Ironwood, Mich. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—James B. Nachtcball, '51, 1031 Truxlon, X.E.. Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Hiawathaland—Donald T. Trottier, '44, 604 Lud­ington St., Escanaba, Iklich. /arJbon—C>Til J. Hartman, '23, 612 Webb St., Jack­son, Mich. Kalamazoo—Joseph O'Kcefe, '44, O'Keefe Moior w Sales, 433 W. Water St., Kalamazoo, Mich. £aaim£—Robert H. Moonej-, Jr., '52, 2329 Cumber­land Rd., Lansing 6, Mich. Monroe—^Hugh J. Laughna, '40, 1587 Rivcr\-icw, MomtK, Mich. 
Muskegon—James Morse, '57, 2337 Vincent Rd., &Iuskfgon, Mich. Saginaw ruffey—William C. Hurley, '25, 1711 Gratiot, Saginaw, Mich. Top of Michigan—Edward L. Moloney, *17, 416 9 East State St., Cheboj^n, Mich. 
MINNESOTA 
Duluth-Superior—^Jamcs P. Keough, *35 (TrcaMiicr), 2703 E. Fifth St., Duluth, Minn. Twin Cities—Thomas P. McDonald. '57, 1923 Princeton Ave., St. Plaul 5, Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI 
Willbm II. Miller, '30, /53 Gillespie PI., J.icluan, 
Mis. 
MISSOURI 

Kansas City—George J. HIggins, '53, c/o Employers Mutual of Wisconsin, 210 W. Tenth St., Kansas 0 Cit>-, Mo. St. Louis—^James Pudlowslu, '54, 3636 Gasconade, St. Louis, ^fo. 
MONTANA 
Bcrnaid Graincy, '43, 906—11 .Ave., Helena, Mon­tana. 
NEBRASKA 
Omaha and Council Bluffs—^J. Emmcl Root, '55, 
1109 N. 6O1I1 St., Omaha, Xeb. 
NEW JERSEY 
Cent™/—Thomas F. Kenneally, '30, Box 257, Mid­dlebush, N.J. Xew Jersey Shore—Gcoise A. Barisccllo, Jr., '44, 416 Burlington Ave., Bradley Beach, N.J. Sew Jertty—K. Brace Dold, '53, 9 Ferndiff Terr., Glen Ridge, N.J. South Jersey—James B. Catson, '56, 624 Clinton .Ave., HaddonGeld, N.J. 
NEW MEXICO 
Richard R. Evcrroad, '41, 2323 .Morrow Rd., N.E., .Albnqtleit]ue, K.M. 

^ NEW YORK 
.4/timj^Franlc E. O'Brien, '58, 99 Broolclinc Ave., .Albany, N.Y. fiu#a/o—'John M. Considine, '49, 116 Huntington Ct., Williamsville 21, N.Y. Ccnfrof—Thomas F. Quinlan, '53, 226 Roiircvelt Ave., Syracuse 10, X.Y. Golden Circle—James F. McVay, '42, 49 Parkway Lane, Btadford, Pa. 
Mid-Hudson Valley—Dorald J. Reynolds, '53, 118 
South Ave., Poughkcepsie, N.Y. 

.l/o*oici To/fe}'—Kenneth F. Murphy, '54, 32 Eraer­_ son Ave., Utica 3, N.Y. w Xew York Cily—Edward B. Finpatrict, Jr., '54, 
333 Emory Rd., Mineola, N.Y. «o<:*«(fl—John C. Casey, '55, 345 Clover St., Rochester 10, N.Y. Schenectady—John F. Hurley, '37, Mgr., Sales Pro­motion & Training, Gen. Elec. Co., One River Rd., Schenectady 5, N.Y. Syracuse—Sec "Central New York" Southern Tier—Edwin Bonham, '09, 329 Hamilton St., Painted Post, N.Y. Triple Cities—Joxph P. Galloway, '51, 29 Norman Rd. (MR97), Binghamton, X.Y. 
NORTH CAROLINA 

Donald J. Kelsey, '48, 1115 Westridge Rd., Grecns­^ boro, N.C. 
# 
NORTH DAKOTA 
William Daner, '53, 1106 S. Highland .Acres, Bis­marck, N.D. 
OHIO 

.4tron—William I. Lammcts, '53, 455 Hillwood Dr., Akron 20, Ohio. ^(CoiKoji-Edward A. Mahoney, Jr., '41, 3421 Park-Hdge Circle, N.W., Canton, Ohio. 
CI"n<:l•lIIlo/^—John R. LaBar, '53, 6534 Glade Ave., Cincinnati 30, Ohio. Cleveland—Thomas F. Bremer, '46, 1375 Inglewood Dr., Clevehind Heights 21, Ohio. 
Columbus—Robert J. Kosyilar, '53, Kosydar & Dilen­schneider, 16 E. Broad St., Columbus 15, Ohio. Baylon—Walter T. Grady, '43, 4888 Goodyear Dr., 
Dayton 16, Ohio. Hamifton—Jerome A. Ryan, '41, 353 South D St., Hamilton, Ohio. .l/ow/ieW—Richard L. Walter, '41, 1146 Springbrook Dr., MansSeld, Ohio. .Vor(*ai«(,.rn—Paul Doran, '37, 1503 W. Wayne St., Lima, Ohio. OAio Valley—}:siacs J. Haranio, '52, 26 Courtland, Wheeling, W. Va. Sandusky—Kjdard C. Hohler, '47, 2603 Eastwood Dr., Sandusky, Ohio. Ti^n-Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., Tiffin, Ohio. Toledo—H. Joseph Kalbas, '56, 541 Tennyson PI., Toledo 10, Ohio. Youngstown—Thomas E. Kerrigan, '44, 133 E. Jud­son Ave., Youngstown, Ohio. 
OKLAHOMA 
Oklahoma Citj—John A. Hobbs, '55, 2529 N.W. 51, Oklahoma City 12, Okla. ruJta—Marion J. Blake, '33, 709 Oil Capital BIdg., Tulsa, Okb. 
OREGON 
H. Paul Newman, '55, 1915 Harrison St., Milw^u­kie 22, Oregon. 
PENNSYLVANIA 
Central Pennsylvania—Dr. Geoigc W. Katter, '41, 
U.S. Bank BIdg., Johnstown, Pa. fine—Anthony J. Zainbroski, '52, 3617 Cascade St., Erie, Pa. ffarriiiurj—Donald R. Meek, '50, 520 Park .Ave., XcW Cumberland, Pa. Lehigh Valley—Kohen G. Straley, '53, 1976 Penn­syK'ania Ave., Bethlehem, Pa. Monongahela Valley—Louis W. Apone, '41, 321 Market St., Brownsville, Pa. Philadetphia—B:inan B. Johnson, '48, 310 Fairhill Rd., Wynnewood, Pa. Pittiburgh—Dottsid W. Bebencl, '52, 1513 Berser BIdg., Pittsburgh 19, Pa. Scranton—C. Richard Marshall, '51, Conncll BIdg., Scranton 3, Pa. Wilkes-Barre—Ksxjmond J. Sobota, '49, 760 Miners Bank, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
ll'iV/iums/iort—Edwani F. O'Dea, '57, 1254 Park .Ave., Williamsport, Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS 
Philip B. Toole, '52, 185 Union St., Attleboro, Mass. 
SOUTH CAROLINA 
Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '31, 22 Moore Dr., Westwood, Charleston, S.C. 
SOUTH DAKOTA 

Black Hills—Bernard Gira, '10, Custer, South Dakota. 
TENNESSEE 

C/iot/anoofa—Herbert J. Hailc, Jr., '55, W. C. Teas Co., 1212 McCallic Ave., Chattanooga, Tenn. .Uem/iAis-John M. Reynolds, '56, 409 Cecilia Dr., Memphis, Tenn. 
TEXAS 

Au/Zoi—Richard J. Lajoie, '42, 9863 Champa Dr., Dallas 18, Texas. El Poio—Edward T. Jennings, '53, 312 Olivia Circle, EI Paso, Texas. 
/foiuto*—Alfred a DeCrue, Jr., '53, S(S4 C>rcw St., Hoaston 3S, Texas. .WdlaMj4}dessm—lolm L. O'Han, "ar, 1001 W. O. Odtmx, Taos. Ko Grande FWIry—Kobm Aaz, '«, 1205 W. EEa­beth St., Brawnsvillc, Toas . Sam Amtanio—lm J. FUSKSK, '49, 119 Tnalieriiad Dr., San Antonio 9, Texas. 
UTAH 

Don J. Rooey, '58, 320 East Fouith, Salt Lake Ctr 8, Utah. 
VIRGINIA 

Leo F. Burke, '44, 900 Blanton Ave., Ridunond, Va. Tidewater—VhSOip L. Rosso, '49, 8033 Wedgewood Dr., Norfolk, Va. 
WASHINGTON 

5/>oi<iiie—Gary A. Myers, '39, W 2825 Holyoke, Spokane 54, Wash. If«/ern—Frederick N. Hoover. '43. 2814-40 Ave., W., Seattle 99, Wash. 
WEST VIRGINIA 

Richard J. Shafer, '57, 416 — 7lh Ave., St. Albans, 
W. Va. 

Central—John D. Julian, '40. P.O. Box 2063, Clarks­butg, W.Va. 
WISCONSIN 

Fox Kver Valley—VnHhim R. Maher, Jr., 780 Oak St., Neenah, Wise. Green Bay—Thomas C. Murphy, '53, c/o Farmer's Friend, 310 Rne St., Green Bay, Wise LaCrosse—J. WUIiam Murphy, '52, 1525 King St., LaCrasse, Wise. .Iferriff—Augustus H. Stange, '27, 102 S. Prospect St., MerriU, Wise. .Uifamikee—John Wilkinson, '36, 426 N. 91, Wainra­tosa. Wise. Northwest Wiseonsitft—C. T. Downs, '33, 2I9}4 S. Barstow, Eau CIail«, Wise South Central—John W. Roach, '27, 138 Glcnway St., Madison, Wise 5ou(Aeiii«n<—Edwin E. Raymond, Jr., '49, 2820— 21 St., Racine, Wise. 
WYOMING 

Patrick H. Meenan, '49, Midwest Blc^., P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wyo. 
FOREIGN CLUBS 

Bengal, India—Rn. John W. Kane, CAC. '24, Moreau House, 28 Zindabahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. 
Canada—Taul H. LaFramboise, '34, 400 Chaiest Blvd., Quebec, Canada. Chile—Rex. Francis A. Ptovenzano, CAC , '42, St. George's College, .Aven. Pedro de ValiSria 1423, Santiago, Chile. £<:u<u/i>r—John Moeller, '47, P.O. Box 213, Quito, Ecuador. Manila—Coiurado Sanchez, Jr.. '34, 83 Mayoa Sc , Quezon City, Philippines. .Mexico City—Tdmo De Landero, '37, Eugenio So* No. 220, Mexico City, Mexico. Panama—^Lorenzo Romagoza. '45. Box 3393, Ruama, 
Rep. of Panama Peru—^Enrique Lulli, '45, Cuzco 440, Lima, Pens-Puerto Ruo—Vml McManus, "34 (Vioe-ftes.), Calk 
Earle No. 4, Gondado, Santurce, Aseito Rios. 

Rome—Vincent G. McAloon. '34 (SecretaiT), M ­azzo Brancacdo, Largo Braiicaocia, 82, KtMne, Italy. 
Notre Dame Alumnus. October. 1962 15 
FalU, N.Y. Chairman FRANK FORGIONE will announce the evening's agenda at a later date. 
JIM CASEY has set our Annual Communion Breakfast for Sunday, December 2nd. Chairman GENE O'CONNOR uill announce our guest speaker at a later date. The location for this 
Clubs event, because of increased attendance in the past 
Akron 
Uni\-crsal Notre Dame Night was held in Akron 

May 17 at Yanko*s restaurant with BOB HUD­
DLESTON, '54, as chairman. FATHER JOHN 
KRAKER, son of JOE KRAKER, '29, spoke on 
Mater et Magistra. BOB CAHILL did a fine Job 
as main speaker filling us in on the sidelights at 
school. DON MILLER \v3s here also. FRANK 
STEEL, '25, was then called upon to make the 
presentation of the Man-oF-the-Year Award. ED 
.RAUB, '23, was the recipient selected for his 
ciTDrts in behalf of his Church and his community-. 
Elections wer* held July II at Falrlawii C. C. 

New officers for the coming year are: BILL LAM­
MERS, '53, president; JIM MURPHY, '53, vice-
president; EDDIE BUTLER, JR., *60, secretary-; 
and JACK LANGE, '54, treasurer. The whole club 
wishes to thank outgoing officers GEORGE DE­
KANY, '49, and DAN ^fOTZ, *54, for jobs well 
done. 
The annual rafHe this year was for four tickets 

to the Pittsburgh game along with accommodations 
for Friday and Saturday evenings. The scholarship 
fund has again benefitted from this program. 
Saturday night, December 29th, is the night of 

the Scholarship Ball. This year's dance will be 
held at Silver Lake C. C. with JIM MURPHY, 
*53, 25 chairman. 
—WILLIAM LAMMERS, '53, Retiring Sccv-. 

Balrimore 
Reports from the Club members, guests, and even the treasurer indicate that a good time was had by all at UND Nile last May 9th. The final tally shows that 35 couples attended the cocktail party-dinner, and everyone seemed to enjoy the program very much. Adjournment was by 10 P.M. as promised and the evening was highlighted by the presentation of the Man of the Year award to HAL WILLIAMS. Congratulations again, Hal! 
The Notre Dame Club of Baltimore purchased 50 tickets for the Sunday evening, August 5th per­formance of **Bye, Bye, Birdie" at Painters Mill Music Fair. Plans were tentatively under way for ND Club Men to enjoy the Notre Dame-Oklahoma Game on TV September 29th at the Gridiron Club. "Sometime in October" is the best we can say at this time when speaking about the ^\'ives' Club Luncheon. More about this next report. 
The Irish take on the Middies in Philadelphia's huge Memorial Stadium on November 3rd. We are now making plans to charter a bus, buy a block of tickets, and make a real day of it. We would leave Baltimore about 10:30 A.M. Saturday, have a box lunch on the u-ay, and arrive at the Stadium in time to see the bo}^ in Blue parade. The bus will return to Baltimore right after the 
game, and we'll stop olT for dinner somewhere 
cnroute back. 
Welcome to BILL DODD, FRANCIS GRAU, 

TON^ MILETO and JOHN MONTGOMERY, 
four men of the Class of '62 who hax-c joined 
the Notre Dame Club of Baltimore. DAVE SOLO­
MAN'S wife has presented him with another In­
come Tax Deduction. Club Secretary TOM SHINE 
recently became engaged to Miss Bemadette Walsh 
of Lansdou-ne, Mar)*Iand. 
Coming Events: Nov. 3, Saturday, ND « . Na\'y, 

ND Club to Philadelphia; Dec , Family Communion 
Breakfast; Jan., rest up from New Year's Eve; 
Feb., Sdiolarship Ball; March, Seminar; April, 
UND Kite—1963. 
Buffalo 
"In the past, as a new administration assumed control in the Buffalo Club, no one was quite sure uhat committees were in existence, and if the>* carried over from one year to the next." After so expressing himself to his Board of Directors, Presi­dent JOHN M. CONSIDINE received their ap­pro^'al to appoint committee chairmen and vice-chairmen for three-year terms. Committee ch^r­mcn are: Membership—HENRY BALLING, Pub­licity—JOE MARGIN, Scholarship—JACK LA­VIGNE, Hospitality—PAUL NEVILLE, Fund Rais­ing—FRANK GAGLIONE, Spiritual—MAURICE QUINN, Inter\icwing—JACK CONSIDINE, Legal —BOB WEBER, Foundation—TONY BRICK. 
Our own JIM DUNNIGAN, president of the Buffalo Race^^'ay, told some interesting stories about racing (harness) when he spoke at our May Meeting in Hamburg, Ne%v York. Board member in charge was MATT DUGGAN. Perhaps Jimmy's appearance was the reason for the splendid turnout June 29th for our "Night at the Raceway." Many thanks to JIM DONOGHUE who worked with Chairman DENNY SULLIVAN to make this eve­ning a successful one. 
Our Annual Golf Outing was scheduled for August 27th at the Lancaster Country Club. Jack Considine appointed an ardent fellow golfer and capable chairman in GEORGE FERRICK. 
BILL LAWLESS appointed genial HOWIE BURKE as chairman for our September 6th meeting at the University Club. Our initial Fall gathering is traditionally Father & Son Night for all new freshmen. 
Frank Gaglione proclaimed September 16th as "Family Picnic Day." Co-chairmen, Barbara and JIM AUSTIN announced that CLEM CROWE had graciously invited the Club to hold it at his farm in Eden, New York. Families not partici­pating had to answer to Frank. Our second fall meeting, as planned by PAUL CARROLL, will be in early November at the Parkway Inn, in Niagara 
1962 —THE ECUMENICAL COUNCIL 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, December 9, 1962, will find the long-awaited Ecumenical Council called by Pope John XXIII, occupying the sts^c of all the religious world. 
Its purpose is so vital, its potential so great for our world, and its application so significant in our own pluralistic society, that no other topic could have so much to recommend it Clubs will readily find competent local speakers. 
Universal Communion Sunday, the Sunday nearest the Feast of the Immacu­late Conception, was designed in 1938 to stress the relationships between religion and citizenship in the United States, of which The Immaculate Conception is Patnmess. The fruits of the Council may well contribute greatly to the strength­ening of these ties. 
Note to Local Clubs: The occurrence of the Feast this year on a Saturday may provide opportuinities for Club observance on a broader base of time and place than the traditional Sunday. 
Committee on Religion and CitizensUp 
of the Board of Directors of the 
Alumni Association ol the University 
of Notre Dame. 
^ 

several years, will probably be the Main Dining 
Room in the Buffalo Athletic Club. 
BOB WEBER has again reserved the Terrace 
Room at the Statlcr Hilton for our .Annual 
Christmas Dance. A chairman has yet to be 
selected, but the date is definite — Friday, Decem­
ber 28th. Music will be provided by LES ERLEN­
BACH. Dues, as announced by JACK CONSI­
DINE, have been reduced to $6.00. Perhaps this 
is why Financial Secretary JOE BUCKHEIT has ^ 
reported over 100 dues paying members for 1962. ^ 
—JAMES F. CASEY, '44, Secy. 

Calumet 
New Calumet officers are: DAVID OGREN, 
president; LAWRENCE GALLAGHER, vice-presi­
dent; TIM KLEIN, secretary; and ANTHONY 
KUHARICH, treasurer. 
We were somewhat disappointed by the small turnout at our Universal Notre Dame Night, how­ever, this was more than compensated by the fine talk that FATHER JOHN REEDY gave. 
We recently had our Notre Dame Sports Slag which was attended by an estimated three hun­drcd and fifty people. The University was well ^ represented by Ed Krause, Brad Lynn, and ball­players. Proceeds from this will be enough to complete our pledge to the foundation. This was another ivonderful job done by TONY KUHARICH, who was the chatnnan of the affair. 
—D. W. OGREN. Pros. 

Central New Jersey 
Our welcome party to newly graduated seniors 
inducted them into the Notre Dame Club of Cen­
tral 'New Jersey on August 16, 1962, with a Golf 
Stag at Raritan Valley Country Club and a steak 
roast follo\ring. 
Our program to date has also consisted of a 
cocktail party on February 25th at the Washington 
House, Universal Notre Dame night on April 28th ^ 
at the Pines, and the student send-off at the Park -^ 
Hotel the first week in September. t 
The remainder of the year's program will be: Trip to the Na\y-Notre Dame Game, November 3; Election of officers in late November; Com­munion breakfast in December. 
—THOM.\S F. KENNEALLY, Pres. 

Chicago 
Not even a morning-long monsoon could dampen the spirits of more than 250 club members and their guests who turned out for the annual goU outing Aug. 6 at Elmhurst Country Club. .About 150 of the "Flailing Irish" sloshed around the ^ course, but all were on deck for the big Sports Night Dinner that featured Coach JOE KU­HARICH and Athletic Director ".MOOSE" KRAUSE. 
ART ARQUILLA and FRANK CHRISTOPHER will share the Suite Memorial Trophy during the coming year. Both shot fine 74s over the soggy course. RAY GEORGE and JIM MAKK. had 76's and AL McGUFF came in with a 77 for fifth place. BRUCE MALEC and JIM KEEFE were the low-net Peoria winners, tvhile JERRY BRANS­FIELD backed into the annual perseverance award. BOB WOLF and ED MORAN were lucky enough to go home with a new set of woods. 
President JACK BARRY commended the com­mittee for its efforts on the big outing, which takes plenty of planning over a three month period. Co-chairmen were CHUCK FALKEN­BERG, KEN SCHUSTER. FRANK MURNANEA and JOE ARCHIBALD. AL HANEY and JIM * RYTHER handled the tickets. BILL FAY, BILL HADDOX, FRED HOLZ, PAT MONTROY and JERRY PRASSAS also did yeoman service. 
Among the Chicagoland football players cited by COACH KUHARICH were ED HOERSTER, ED BURKE, JIM SHERLOCK, NICK ETTEN, BILL AHERN, TOM GOBERVILLE, WALLY SZAT, JOE FARRELL. BILL FFEIFFER. DON HOGAN and Captun MKE UND. Lind and Hogan. who is a former Rockne Award wiimer^ aad was luuned the outstanding freshman player.V attended the diimer. 
IS Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 
BIIX GLEASON of Chicago's American wis toastmaster and called the Sports Night Dinner 

• a fitting climax to Chicago's All^Star week. Among the ND greats who attended the dinner were HUNK ANDERSON, DAN SHANNON, TOM CAREY, STEVE JUSWICK, BOB KELLY and JOE ZWERS. Basketball Coach JOHHNY JOR­DAN and Golf Coach, FATHER CLARENCE DURBIN, two of the best players on the campus, also gave some of our local hot shots a lesson or two. 
Some of those who took adv'antagc of our advance rcser\*3tion s>'stcm tlirough the club ofHce were TOM COUGHLAN, HARRY QUINN, JIM HAG­GERTY, RAY DURST, PHIL FACCENDA, DON ROSS (the new Foundation representative in this area), TOM KILDUFF, WALT KRAWIEC, DAN MANNION, JOHN LAVERY, DICK 

• SHEA, DON McKENZIE, RON and DEN MALEC, TOM FOW-ERS, BILL FERRICK, JOHN &\RON, BILL ARCHIBALD, AUSTIN McNICHOLS, TOM HANNON. 
JOE GLEASON, JOHN DUGAN, DICK WEILER, JOHN BOURKE, CHARLES MEYERS, DICK CARRIGAN, AL ROHOL, ED MIEKOW­SKI, GERRY SPECHT, DON WEBER, JOE Mc-GINN, JERRY BAIER, JACK MORAN, DICK NIXON, TOM KING, CHARLES BRUTI, DON ROMANO, JIM CELANO. 
DAN CASEY, BILL O'BRYAN, BILL CAHILL, JOHN GRIFFIN, TOM SEXTON (Junior and Senior), FRANK HENNESSEY, GEORGE GRO­BLE, CY FREIDHEIM, BILL FERSTEL, JACK URBAIN, JIM FERSTEL, JOHN ^VEITHERS, 

• 
ED GARVEY, TONY MANDOLINL FRED GORE, JOHN WALSH, TO.M McBREEN, BUD GANDOLPH, GERRY STANTON, TO.M NES­SINGER, BEN ZAJESKI and TOM KELLY. 
JIM KENNEDY did his usual outstanding job playing "Candid Camera." You'll see the results of his work in this issue. 

Our special thanks again to our host, COL. FRED SNITE, whose country club is among the finest in the country. 
For those who enjoyed the golf outing, and for all of those who didn't make it, plan now to attend our big Rockne Dinner in December. This will be a Xotre Dame sports spectacular that will put a final flourish on the football season. Start talking it up now and plan to ,rescr\'c a table. Just talk to anyone who took in last year's pro­
• gram and you'll know the Rockne Dinner is one of the best events scheduled in Chicago during the year. Sec you then! 
—PAUL FULLMER, '33, 2nd Vice-Ptes. 

Connecticut Valley 
A few* months ago we joined with our other alumni clubs in Connecticut to commemorate Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. Cocktails and dinner at The Carriage Drive plus a very inspiring talk by FR. LOUIS THORNTON gave us one of our best UND nights. As our Man of the Year we cliose THOMAS B. CURRY, '14. For oi.-cr 48 
^ years here in Hartford, Tom has represented the ^ best of Notre Dame ideals both in his public and private life. 
The "Farewell Freshmen" dinner was held Sept. 12 at Hartford Club, Hartford, Conn. The color film, "Notre Dame" was shown at this event. 
—ROBERT L. .McGOLDRICK, Prcs. 

Cincinnati 
New officers were elected by the Notre Dame .-Mumni Association of Greater Cincinnati on April 9, 1962. Their names are as follows: JOHN R. LA BAR, *53, president; PAUL KELLEY, '54, vice-president; ROBERT ISPHORDING, '52, treas­urer; and JOHN P. SCALLAN^ '57, secretary. 
Trustees are JOHN E. CRONIN. BERTRAND 

A. SCHLOEMER, and JOHN F. McCOR&nCK. —PAT SCALLAN, Sec>-. 
' Columbus 
On June 12 the board of directors and officers of the Notre Dame Club of Columbus, Ohio, held a luncheon meeting at the Neil House. In attend­ance were President BOB KOSYDAR, Vice-Presi­dent MIKE SCANLON, Secretary JACK DILEN­SCHNEIDER, Treasurer DON WEILAND and board members JOHN IGOE, CHARLIE WEIL. BACKER, DR. JOE HUGHES, AL EICHENLAUB, OR. TOM HUGHES, and RICHARD KASBERG. ^ President Kosydar reported that the trade of tele* w vision air time for the use of tte half hour film 
BUFFALO — Several Buffalo Clubbers got together on tbclcyc of the CoD^e AS-Star Game last summer to honor three N.D. players on the East football squad phs Head Coach Jack Mollcnkopf of Purdue and his wife: (1st row, L-r.) Mrs. Paul Neville, Joe CoroUo, Angelo Dabicro, Mrs. Nicholas Buoniconti, Nick Bucmiconti; (2nd row) Chariie Callahan, Jack Mollenkopf, Mrs. Mollenkopf, Mrs. William Lawless, Mrs.. James Dunn^an; (Srd row) Mrs. Gordon Bennett, Mrs. William Dowdall, Jim Dunnigan, Mrs. Howard Burke; 
(4th row) Mrs. Henry Bums, William Dowdall, Judge BiU Lawless, Howard V. Burice; (5th row) Henry Bums, Paul Neville, Gordon Bennett, and John Mazur. East lost in spite of excellent play by the three Notre Damcrs. 
"Notre Dame" with local TV station WTVN in May resulted in several calls from local PTA's requesting showings of the film in the fall. The back-to-school picnic was held Sept. 8 \Wth DICK KASBERG heading the affair. The 1561 N.D.­Purdue game film was shown. The club also decided to run a train to the Purdue game on October 6 and AL EICHENLAUB reported that the local Purdue club would support the trip. Ako approved by the board were a fall smoker, the Communion breakfast on December 9, the Christmas dance, two spring meetings for nomination and election of officers, and Universal Notre Dame night. 
On July 26, President Kos>'dar and Secretary Dilenschneider were guests of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland at their annual golf banquet at the Oak Hills Country Club in Lorain, Ohio. Kosydar, who won an ice-bucket in the Cleveland Club's drawing, said that any Cleveland Clubber who wished would be afforded equal opportunity to lose money at Columbus raffies. Early in August Treasurer DON WEILAND dbtributed the roster booklets of the Columbus Club to members. 
—JACK DILENSCHNEIDER, '53, Sec>'. 

Dallas 
Universal Notre Dame Night in Dallas %vas celebrated April 26th. Originally wc were to have FATHER O'DONNELL, but because of illness, FATHER BOARMAN was sent in his place. 
Since WALTER FLEMING was to receive a special award from the University, we decided not to make a simultaneous "Man of the Year" presentation, but more or less combined both honors into one in making the award to Walter. 
The affair was held at the Holiday Inn and we had about 120 attendants. When I made the presen­tation to Walter, I cited him for his exemplary life in the field of civic affairs, religious activities, politics, commerce, and family life. For quite some time Walter was chairman of the local Republican Party, and through his efforts, the first Republican Cmgressman from the State of Texas since the 
Civil-War was sent to Washington, D.C.—Mr. 
Bruce Alger. He was president of Catholic Chari­
ties in 1939; has been an active supporter of all 
major civic drives, including B:«yIor Hospital, Meth­
odist,-St. Paul, University of Dallas, parochial hi ^ 
schook, and various parish undertakings. He is 
executive vice-president of Fleming & Sons, Inc, 
which is the largest paper manufacturer in the 
Southwest. He has five children: two sons attend 
Notre Dame, one daughter attends St. Mary's of 
Notre Dame, and the other two children are in 
St. Monica's grade school. 
I was chairman of the affair and made the 
presentation to Walter. I also introduced BISHOP 
GOR&IAN who spoke woitls of gratitude to the 
Notre Dame alumni for the loyal and generous 
support they have given to all diocesan activities. 
MARTY O'CONNOR, the outgoing president, in­
troduced the new dub officers: DICK LAJOIE, 
president; DON HARRIS, vice-president; MARK 
TOLLE, secretary, and FRED EICHORN, treas­
—H. F. TEHAN. 

Dayton 
Officers for 1962-63 are WALT GRADY, presi­
dent; PAT FOLEY, vice-president; DREW AMAN, 
treasurer; and JOHN DEFANT, secretary. New 
members of the Board of Directors are retiring 
president DR. LOU HALEY, GEORGE PFLAUM, 
JR., and ROCKNE MORRISSEY. 
First event of the year was a golf outing and steak dinner at the Miami Valley Country Club on Sept. 13. MOOSE KKAUSE, the University's genial director of athletics, was the club's special guest. Enr<41ing freshmen from the Daytoa area— there are four of them — and their dads were also guests. 
A Commimion breakfast, smoker, and a Christ­inas dinner-dance are among the activides already schcdtded for' fall and early winter. A Hoate Carlo party will be an added feature of the Christ­mas dance. 
—JOHN DEFiUrr, Seer. 

Notre Dame Atumnus, October, 1962 17 
Dearborn 
The annual Notre Dame Club Picnic was held 
on Sunday, June 24, at NoIIar Bend on the £d­
U'ard Hines Parkway. There were refreshments, 
games, prizes, beer, soft drinks and ice cream to 
siqiplcment the picnic lunches at a moderate tab 
for the whole family. 
A meeting was held July 13 at tlie home of 

DICK KING. Dues were collected by Secrclar>­
GEORGE BALL, and plans were made for tlic 
Annual Summer Party. The dance ^*"as held on 
July 28 in the gardens of the JOHN FISH home 
in Dearborn. Donations covered food, refreshments 
and music for dancing under the stars. 
Denver 
Ttic Denver Noire Dame Club's aimual Sporth Lunclicon was held in late July with nearly cvcr\­major sports figure in the Denver area on thr program. M.C.'d by former Notre Dame basket­ball great JOHN DEE ('48), the program featured new Colorado University football coach Bud Davis and Jack Faulkner, new head coacli of the pro­fessional Denver Broncos. JI.M MARTIN ('50), a participant in last Spring's Old Timers Game, gave a rundoi^'n on the potential of the 1962 "Fighting Irish." Jim, as you all remember, was a field goal kicking specialist for the Detroit Lions for the past 12 years, and his coacliing ability was proven during the Bronco's opener when his kicking protege connected with a 53->*ard field goal. 
Another annual event successfully held in Iste 
August was the family picnic Chairman JOHN 
SCHEIBELHUT (*52), did a great job of arranging 
the affair and the afternoon was climaxed by a 
rousing voIIe>'balI game that starred, among others, 
JIM HILGER, ('56), RAY TRITZ, ('52), OSCAR 
KASTANS, ('41). and JIM RAY, ('58). 
The "Freshmen Send-Off** \vzs held on Sept. 6 
at the home of club president, BOB ZEIS, ('^} ­
Five Denver area boys and their parents attended 
and were given answers to the many questions 
about Notre Dame that concerned them. 
Tlie annual ticket rafHc to raise money for tlic Denver Club*s scholarship fund got under way in mid-autumn with the prize an all-expense paid trip to the N.D. \'s. Pitt game in South Bend on Noxxmbcr 10. JIM HILGER was chairman of this most important activity. 
The raffle drawing occurred during halftime of the "Denver Bronco game of October 28, whicli was declared Notre Dame Day by Bronco officials. A crowd of area Notre Dame people turned out to honor tlie four cx-Xotre Darners who arc members of the Bronco squad. These included FRANK TRIPUKA, KEN AD.\.MSON, BOB SCARPnTO, and coach JI.M MARTIN. 
Masses have been ofTercd for two. recently de­ceased Denver Notre Dame alumni, JOSEPH CRA\T.V, ('18) and JOHN HUMPHREYS, ('32). 
—BOB ZEIS, Pres. 

Detroit 
Our 39tli .\nnual Universal Notre Dame Night was held on May 8, 1962. The Co-Chairmen were 
C. M. VERBIEST, '22, and H. W. HART, '31. 
Tlic speakers for the evening included Toastmastcr ED "MOOSE" KItAUSE; REV. JOHN E. WALSH, C.S.C., Foundation Director; and Edward L. Cushman. Vice-President of .American Motors Cor­poration. 
Oi'cr 450 men were presonl, including numerous civic, business, and industrial leaders, such as William Clay Ford. DA\'ID \'AN WALLACE made the trip from Mt. Clemens to help celebrate the occasion and pay tribute to Our Lady. 
JACK MORGAN, '51, and STAN INSLEY, '51, arranged our Golf Party on June 26 at the Western Golf and Country Club. FATHER WALSH, JOE KUHARICH, and BILL DADDIO were our guests at that affair. 
Our popular Fall Kick-OfT Party was held September 12 at the Veteran's Memorial. JIM BYRNE, '43, was Chairman, assisted by LOU BASSO, '54; JACK NEIS, '53, and TERRY DES­MONO of the Campus Club. 
—JACK MURRAY, *57, Seo'. 

Erie 
The annual picnic honoring incuming Notre Dame Freshmen and tlieir parents was held at the summer home of LEO J. BRUGGER, '34, for the thirt! year in a row. Tlie whole Brugger family, 
18 Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 
including LEO, JR., *6l, pitched in and really 
showed a great time to all the Club members who 
attended. Present Notre Dame students, other 
than the Freshmen, were also invited. 
HERB KERN, '54, and President TONV ZAM­BROSKI, '52, set up the annual football night at the Rathskeller Room of the Erie Brewing Com­pany, Sept. 27th, and an enjo>*able time vrss had by all in attendance. Highlight of the evening was the showing of Notre Dame football films. Among those attending the affair were JOE BLAKE, '61; JIM OUTER, '36; JIM ALUIONEY, '51; JOE STADLER, '53; TO.M BURICK, '58; BILL GRANT, '45; PHIL HAGGERTY, '53; RAY LEGLER, '57; .MIKE McCORMICK. '61; CHUCK SEDELMEYER, '60; HOWARD ESSICK, '41; DON BUSECK, '50; ROCK MARTEL, '59; and BOB LUKES, '49. 
JOE BARBER, '36, again ivon the golf cham­pionship of the Eric Club. This year he beat RICH McCORMICK. '55, in the finals 10 and 8 in the match play tourney. JOE BLAKE, '61, was the winner of the consolation flight. He took LARRY STADLER, *29, 1 up in tliat match. 
JIM EHRMAN, '61, again spent the summer working in the Engineering Dcpt. at the Erie Resistor Corp. Jim headed back to N.D. in September where he plans to get his Master's Degree in Electrical Engineering in January. The Erie Club congratulates PAUL ERZER and'JOHN MIESEL who received their bachelor degrees at commencement exercises in June. Paul is presently working for a chemical firm out of St. Louis and John is taking graduate work in chemistry* at the University of Illinois, BOB CRIQUE, '62, recently moved to Eric and is working for radio station \\'\\'\'N. Bob is scheduled to do the play by play of the Gannon College basketball games for the station this winter. One of the games will be the N.D.-Gannon game in South Bend on February I3th. TOM BATES, '60, amiable publicity man for Gannon College, w-as pleased when fellow Notre Darner Criquc was selected to do the play by play. Tom spent a tough three weeks at summer camp with the Army Rcserx'es in August. There is quite a bit of talk of wedding bells for Tom incidentally. MIKE McCORMICK, '61, kept bus>' much of the summer with his Trotter racing horses besides his normal work at the Erie Beer Com­pany. 
NORB LEWIS, *49, kept bus>- with his work at the Sessinghaus & Ostcrgaard Construction Com­pany. MO SMITH, '44, quite proud of the swim­ming accomplishments of his 5 cliildrcn this past summer. WILLIAM J. DWYER, *53, has moved from Erie to Chicago. DICK D.ALEY, '53, in town for a \-acation in August from Iiis American Sterilizer duties in Chicago. CHUCK DEGER, '55, and family have moved to Warren, Pa., where Chuck is now working for Packard Electric. RON SHUBERT, '61, now in his second year at Western Rcser\e University Medical ScIiooU TONY ZAM­BROSKI, '52, and JIM M.AHONEY, '51, doing their usual bang-up job with the Prep and Academy High School football teams this fall. 
JIM SCHA.4F, '59, presently witli the Kan>a^ City Athletics, manages to get to town occasionally and renews acquaintances with all the N.D.ers I each time in. E.ARL O'CONNOR, '16, following the Fighting Irish footballers with vigor again this season. JIM DWYER, '37. took in two Notre Dame football games this fall. Likes to get up to campus ever>* opportunity he gets as it gives him a chance to visit with his son Jim, presently a Sophomore. JACK YOUNG, '51, and wife took in the Notre Dame-Navy game in Philadelphia. JACK SITTERLE, '60, now in the Real Estate business. BILL GRANT, '45, enjoying his insur­ance work. HERB KERN, '54, and family have moved into their new home. Herb now has his own Arcliitect firm. 
RAY LEGLER, '57, back in town after a sUori stay in Pittsburgh. TO.M GALLAGHER and fam­ily moved into their new home on West 50th Street this past summer. Tom, JOHN LOCHTE­FELD and RICH McCORMICK, all of the cla»> of '55, get together occasionally to chew about old times. J.'\CK PALMISANO. also class of '55. plan­ning a trip to South Bend in Fcbruaty for the N.D.­Gannon basketball game. 
President Tony Zambroski, '52, announces that plans are in progress for Universal Notre Danir Communion Sundav, to be held this year on December 9th. LEW SHIOLENO, *49, and LARRY STADLER, '29, arc co-ch;urmen of the affair and they announce that Mass will be at 9:00 A.M. at St. Peter's Cathedral followed by breakfast at the Kahkwa Club. Msgr. James Gannon of Our Lady of the Lake parish in Edinboro has consented to be the main speaker for the occasion. President * ZambriMk! also announces that JOE BARBER, '36. and BOB BARBER, '40, have been appointed co-chairmen of an Eric Club week-end retreat which will be held sometime in Januarj- or Februar>-. 
— JOHN J. McCORMICK, JR., Seo. 

Fort Lauderdale 
At our regular business meeting on June 14. 1962, at the Governor's Club Hotel. Fort Lauder­dale. 33 local members were present. Among those attending were GEORGE ERNST, -29; TO.M 
WALKER, '42; DICK WHALEN, '43; FR.\XK MCDONOUGH, '41; FRANK CAREY, '46: JOE GORE, '42; ED BOLF, '46; DICK BAKER, '33: TOM KNOWLAND, '44; PAT DADDIO and i WILLARD MOSS. Plans for our Fourth of July celebration and for the 1963 Florida State Conven­tion were discussed. .Attendance drawing vvas won by JI.M McSWEENEY in the amount of $90.00: certainly a meeting worth attending for Jim and the rest of the membership. 
Tlie club held a gigantic Fourth of July celebra­tion at the Palni-.\ire Country Club in Ponipantt Beach, Florida. The event %vas under the co-chairmanship of FRANK McDONOUGH, '41, and DICK B.AKER, '33, who were ably assisted bv WILLARD MOSS and FRANK CVREY. Over 
DALLAS — Running the 1962-63 program of actmtks lor the Notre Dame Club of Dallas is this stalwart quartet of Texans: Dick I^Joie, president; Don Harris, vice-president; Mark ToUe, secretary; and Fred Eicbom, treasurer. Scene is UJI.D. Night in the spring. 
CHICAGO — Three scenes from the Chicago Club Golf Outing: 1. Bill Gleason, Chicago American sports colnnmis^ is sfianiag a complex yam to judge by the faces of head table companions at the Sports Night Dinner at Efanhurst Country Club: (seated, L-r.) Coach Joe Kuharich, Assistant Brad Lynn, Captain Mike Lind and President Jack Barry. 2. About 250 turned out lor the annual outing and dinner, hosted by Col. Fred Suite, including Art Conrad, 1st vice-president, and Ray Durst, Foundatiim chairman. 
3. Heavy morning rains failed to deter 100 afternoon golfers like octogenarian Bill Ferstel, '00, (left) being coagratnlated oo 
• 
• 
• ^ 
^ # 
A 
his stylish game by Judge Norman Barry, 
200 people were in attendance for a full day of golfing, supcn'iscd children's activities, cocktail party, moWcs for the kids, and a vcr>' delicious steak dinner topped off by one of the best fire­work displays any of us lias ever seen in Soutb Florida. 
Tlie closed business meeting lield in August was to honor some of the new freshmen from the area who will be attending the University this fall and as special guest of the club, FRANK BUDKA, Notre Dame's fine sophomore quarterback of last year from Pompano Beach, Florida, was at the meeting and brought us the I96I Football movies. Forty-six (46) members and their guests were at the meeting to hear Frank say a few words and the movies were enjoyed by all. TIic club would rspecially like to advise the alumni to keep their t-ycs on a few South Florida freshmen who we hope will do vcr>- well on the gridiron and on the basketball court for Notre Dame in the years to come. Specifically speaking, BILL ZLOCH from 
Fort Lauderdale will be \ying for the quarter­back position in years to come and BUCKY Mc-GANN will be doing his best for the Notre Dame basketball team for the next four years. Inci­deniallv, Bucky's coach was also present at the meeting. He is SAM BUTNICK, *55. 
Tlic Fort Lauderdale Club planned a boat cruise and dinner show aboard the new Southern Belle Excursion Boat for the September mbccd meeting; the TV party during the Notre Dame-Oklahoma game on Saturday afternoon, September 29, 1962; and we arc all looking forward to our October meeting at which time the football raffle will be held with the top prize of round-tn'p plane fare and tickets for two games in South Bend 
 going to the winning couple. Plans for the 1963 convention at Grand Bahama Island are taking shape and watch the issues to come for more infor­mation on this most outstanding event. 
Tliat's it for this time, but as always the welcome mat is out for all Notre Dame friends whenever in the Fort Lauderdale area. 
— DON DORINI, '53, Sec^•. 
Grand Rapids & Western Michigan 
The following is a report of the recent acti\-ilies and coming events for the Grand Rapids and Western Michigan Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame. 
 In a icceni election TOM CAMPBELL, ED Mc­ DERMOTT and FRANK THRALL were elected to the Board of Directors. Tlieir term will expire in 1965. At the Board of Directors' meeting held on August 8. 1962. the following officers were elected: JIM NACHTEGALL, president; ROBERT WOODHOUSE, vice-president; EDWARD REILLY, secretary; and TOM CAMPBELL, treasurer. 
The annual golf outing was in the planning stages at this writing, and an excursion to the Notre Dame-Michigan State game on October 20 is also being planned. 
 —EDWARD REILLY, Sec>-. 
Idaho 
The annual Summer Picnic of the Notre Dame 
Club of Idaho, was held on Sunday^ August 19th, 
at the Cornell Ranch, Little Camas, Idaho. 
The officers elected were: MIKE KOHOUT, '59, 
president; DICK MARSHALL, *59, \-ice-prcsident; 
and RICH CORNELL, '59, sco.-treasurer. 
The menu this year featured steaks from our 
delicious Idaho-grown beef. Tlie highlite of this 
meeting was the fact that this was a family affair, 
and the number of children far exceeded the num­
ber of adults present, so ever\-one had a good 
busy lime. 
Tlic following alumni and their families were 
in attendance: TOM JONES, JR., PAUL L. KO­
HOUT, HERB DIR, BOB ERKINS, FRANK 
HICKS, JOE HAWES, JOE NETTLETON, 
FRANCIS NEITZEL, RICH CORNELL, DICK 
.MARSHALL and MIKE KOHOUT. 
— .MIKE KOHOUT, '59, Pres. 
Indianapolis 
The administration of new president, DR. PAUL 
F. 2VIULLER, '37, has just accomplished w*hat none of the three previous administrations have been able to accomplish. The torrential cloudbursts that annually soak the two summer club activities were notably absent this year at the sla^ outing held June 21 and the golf outing on July 19. Both activities drew record attendance, due in large part to the capable direction of their chairmen, LEO .McNAMARA, '50, and GEORGE F. USHER, '45. 
Golfing guests from the University included FR. CHARLES E. SHEEDY. dean of the College of .\rts and Letters; FR. CLARENCE DURBIN, coach of the Campus Golf Team; Athletic Director EDWARD (MOOSE) KRAUSE and several assis­tant football coaches. Gold awards were won bv JOHN FOLEY, '55; BOB BOWERS, '43, and LEO BARNHORST, '49. The highlight of the day, ho\vevcr, was provided by former club secre­tary' and current member of the board of directors, BILL McGOWAN, '57. Playing for the first time since last summer's outing, McGowan was looking somewhat the worse for wear as he completed the front side in 58 strokes. He quickly recovered with a 43 on the back side, and won the prize for the closest drive to the pin on the par 3, I2th hole with a HOLE IN ONE! As he accepted the night-long congratulations of club members, he was reminded by several that if he had shot two more aces on the same round he would have broken 100! 

FRANK QUINN, '42, and LEO BARNHORST, '49, have been selected to direct the newest and largest club project, the sponsorship of a perform­ance of a professional Ice Revue in Indianapolis on November 7. All proceeds will be for the club's student Scholarship Fund, and a large at­tendance is expected. 
— CHARLES G. WAGNER, '54, Secy. 

Kansas City 
A Kansas City Notre Dame Club Ro!>ler has been published and distributed to the members since the last edition of the Notre Dame ALUMNUS. 
This was the last project completed by BUD SHAUGHNESSY, the assistant secretary, before lie left town to pursue graduate studies in architecture. The club will miss him. 
JOHN MASSMAN, the past Club president, was presented a plaque at an informal lunch attended by the Club officers. The presentation was made in behalf of the club membm and in appredation for a job well done during his three-year tenure in office. 
As has become their custom upon the cKxaston of a luncheon in May, the Notre Dame Auxiliary held its annual election of oScers. Elected to head the Auxiliary in 1962 were Mrs. HAKLOW B. KING, president; Mrs. JOHN MASSMAN. MJtx­president: Mrs, HAROLD SOLOMON, rrcording secretary; Mrs. JAMES DeCOUBSEY, SB., com' sponding secretary; Mrs. JOHN DAW, treasurer; and Mrs. HENRY BBOUSSABD, auditor. A $1,300.00 check for the "Challenge Program" was presented to HAROLD SOLOMON and CHUCK 0*NEILL, who were in attendance as Club repre­sentatives. 
The annual Freshman Send-off dinner was held at the Blue Hills Black Angus, Kansas City, just prior to school t^iening. The new Notre Dame men and thnr fathers were introduced to the sizeable group of alumni in attendance. TOM McGEE was the chairman of the event. An enjoyable evening was had by all. 
The Northwestern game has been chosen for the football trip, this year. At this time, we do not have the details but ED AYLWABD, the chairman, is formulating plans. If the past £s any criterion, we may expect the project to be a success. 
As of ibis writing, the Notre Dame Cliib of Kansas City has raised $17,600.00 of its "Chal­lenge" goal of $20,000.00. This pledge is separate and distinct from the contributions of its Individual members. It will be **earmarked" for a memorial room of the librar>'. 
Kentucky 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Kentucky has had two well-attended functions during the summer months. In June, a dinner meeting was held at the new Continental House in Louisville. JACK ZUFELT planned this event to which alumni, students and incoming students were inrited. A silver tray was presented to JACK MUELLER in recognition of his outstanding performance as Immediate past president of the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky. 
On July 30 the traditional annua] combined Notre Dame-Xa\ier University outlog was held on Bellarmine College campus In Louisville. There was a large turnout from both alumni groups. Inci­dentally, Notre Dame won the annual soCtlutll game over Xavier. Two men of the Class of 1960, BILL MAFOTHER and FOSTER HAUNG, have entered the married ranks this summer. BICHABD BO­LAND, '59, has returned to cl\-ilian life after a year in the Array. 
Plans for fall activities, and the annual Christmas Dance are well under way. 
— RICK BEMBfEKS, Secy. 

NotTe Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 19 
tonsing 
Our annual picnic was held at the Ingham 

County Conservation Club^s grounds on June 23 
and was a big success. Many thanks go to the 
Ladies' Auxiliary and especially Joan Kane for 
this fine evening and the delicious food. 
Our new oStcers, elected at the Rockne Com­

munion Sunday Breakfast are: BOB MOONEY, 
re-elected president; BERNIE MAYOTTE, vice-
president; DICK. ALFES, treasurer; ERNIE 
HOUGHTON, secretarv. The remaining board 
members are: CLEM AL\CFARLANE, BILL 
KANE, DICK SCHNEIDER and JOHN POWXRS. 
The members of the Board of Directors held a meeting oa Monday, June 18, 1962, at BOB MOONEYES home and outlined the following events for the coming year. Our board has decided to re­establish the monthly noon luncheons which so many of us enjoyed in the past. BILL KANE was appointed to ma^e final arrangements. JOHN POWERS will handle the details for our annual ticket drawing. Four (4) tickets to the UXD-MSU game in South Bend plus $25.00 expense monc>- will go to the lucky winner. Family Communion Sunday as usual will be held early in December. As in the past, this activity is for the whole family. Rockne Communion Sunday ivill be held in March and is for fathers and sons only. Election of new board members and officers is held at this time, making it an important must for everj* member. UND Night, which has become an increasingly important date to Lansing Notre Dame Alumni and friends, will be held during the second week after Easter. In addition, our board is tentatively planning at least one smoker in. .the fall. These affairs give all members the opportunity to voice their opinions about club events and activities. 
Rumor has it that the Ladies' Auxiliar\-, fresh from a successful picnic, is planning a stjuare dance in October. Our board also reinstated a six {6} member phone committee consisting of JOHN POWERS, DICK ALFES, BOB MOONEY, PAUL DeROSE, B. M.^YOTTE and E. HOUGHTON. . 
Maine 
A newcomer to Lcwiston will be GEORGE RESCH, '41, who will be the new vice-president in charge of production of Dane-T-Bits Cookie Company, building a nevs- plant in rAubum, Maine. 
TIic Notre Dame Club of Maine was unable to hold a summer outing due to conflict of dates and distance of travel within our State. However, a meeting was held at my home in -Lcwiston and tlic following Notre Dame men, students and incoming freshmen attended: JOE DOYLE, D.\N SULLI\'AN, MIKE SALTER, TON\' SILVA, NORM TREMB­LEY, PAUL SCULLY, R.AY GEIGER, VINCE.\T ALLEN, STAN LIBERTY, PAUL FERRIS, NOR­MAN L.AURENDEAU, PETER THORNTON and 
ERNEST AUSTIN. FATHER LEN COLLINS. 
CS.C , Notre Dame, Dean of Students, and 
JIMMY DAY, '32, of Boston lent their presence 
to a fine evening. 
Announcement was made that our scholarship 
boy was graduated this year and that we now 
have been able to make available $2,400 to worthy 
boys in the last few years. We also have a new 
scliolarship boy for wliom we arc providing money. 
FATHER JOSEPH HANNA, CS.C , director of 
Camp Scbaik, the beautiful camp at Seb^^o Lake 
in Maine was there and it is hoped that Notre 
Dame men who are sending their boys into New 
England for camp will consider this wonderful spot. 
Officers for the Maine Club were re-elected same 
as before with WILLIAM MICHAEL SALTER 
remaining as president and yours truly as sccre­
tarx'. 
— R.AY GEIGER, Sec>-. 

Mansfield 
Things arc still rolling here in Central Ohio. Our Family Picnic v\'as held on July 29 at Sacred Heart Church picnic grounds near Shelby, Ohio. JIM O'DONNELL, '51, was cliairman, assisted by BOB ENTRUP, '49, and BOB BURTZLAFF, '61. Games for tlic kids, lots of food and refresh­ments — a good time was had by all. 
We arc looking forward to presence oE the 1962 graduates from this area, J. P. ECHELLE, RICH­ARD BURTZLAFF and JOSEPH P. ZELLER. Congratulations, men!! 
Our bus trip to see the Notre Dame-Purdue game on October 6ih vras sold out in July. Chair­men, \L\RSHALL PRUNTY, '50; GEORGE KAV.\NAUGH, '31, and FR.\NCIS COLEMAN, '46, hoped tO' make this another successful trip. Evervone has enjoyed the ones in the past and all were looking forward to seeing the Irbh down the Boilermakers. 
JIM XLVRTIN, '49, stopped by to visit us a few weeks ago. It was nice reminiscing with him about the "old chow hall davs" when he, DANNY O'CONNELL, '49, and JOHN MOORSHEAD, '49, directed traffic. 
LEO SCANLON, '30, is back at his law prac­tice after a recent eye operation. 
— M. E. PRUNTY, JR:, Secy. 

Miami 
The Annual Alumni-Student Dinner and Meeting of the Greater Miami Club was held at the Urme>­Hotel on September 6th, 1962. This was one of the most successful and enthusiastic meetings our Club has had in years. 
There are eleven Freshmen entering Notre Dame this year from the Greater Miami area. Present at the meeting were: CLYDE ATKINS, JR.; WILLIAM S. DURNEY, JR.; RICHARD W. 
FLEMING. PATRICK J. GLEASON, C J. MC­LAUGHLIN. ROGER ROTOLANTE, JAMES J. ^ WORDEN, TIM KORTH. and FRANCIS ^ MACKLE. JOHN HENRY LEWIS and THEO­DORE CARLON had already left for the campus. 
Among the upperdassmen present were: TOM NORMAN. TIM KEMPER, LOUIS JEPEWAY, JR.. and JOHN RIBKA. Abo present was SERGE MARTINEZ, who completed his sophomore year at Notre Dame and is now at the St. John's Vianney Seminary here in Miami. 
Among the guests were: T. E. NORMrVN, SR.; KENNETH KEMPER; CLYDE ATKINS, SR.; ^VILLIAM S. DURNEY, SR.; WILLIAM H. FLEMING. JESSE GLEASON, FRANK ROTO­LANTE, E. F. SCHIMPELER, F. E. MACKLE, JR.; FRED JONES, SR.; MIKE RILEY, ROBERT 
J. RILEY. JR.; and JOHN THORNTON. JR. g 
Among the alumni present were: DR. WILLIAM McSH.\NE, GEORGE COURY, CHARLES MAH­ER. ROBERT PROBST. GENE KUBICKI, JERRY HOLLAND, BOB RILEY. JOHN STRICK­ROOT, FRED JONES, JR.; JAMES SMITH. ED LYONS. BERNARD LYONS, GEORGE HERO, JOHN THORNTON, SR.; DAVE RUSSELL, HOWARD KORTH, RICHARD SADOWSKI, PARIS COWART, GEORGE KENNARD. JACK CANANE. RAY POPP, and I. I. PROBST. 
The program consisted of an informal panel dis­cussion with the following giving good words of advice: BROTHER KERIC DEVER. CS.C ; DR. WILLIAM McSHANE, GEORGE COURY, JAMES SMITH. CHARLES >LAHER. and JERRY HOL­LAND. The program vras moderated by I. 1. ^ PROBST. 
Mid-Hudson Valley 
For Universal Notre Dame Xight wc were hon­ored with the presence of PR. JOHN E. WALSH, JAMES ARMSTRONG, and WILLIAM MURPHY. 
Father Walsh presented a plaque to Mr. WIL­LIAM BLAKE, Newburgh, N.Y., on the occasion of Mr. Blake's 75th annlvcrsarv- of graduation from the University. 
Our annual picnic was scheduled for Saturday. v\ugu5t 25th at the Eymard Seminary in Hyde Park. Planned was the regular sofiball game between the West Bank and the East Bank to decide this year's champions. 
Mohawk Valley 
Alumni in the Utica, X.Y., area were pledged the most distinguished season in the Mohawk Val­ley Club's htstor\* in 1962-63, including the pres­ence of a top campus personality at the next Universal Xotre Dame Xight to make up for the last-minute cancellation of basketball coach JOHN JORDAN at last spring's UND cclcbrauon. Re-
SPOKANE — Attending the Notre Dame Club's July stag fUnner for Rev. Tliomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C., first campus priest viator in recent yean, were: (seated, l.-r.) Ralph SchuUcr, '37; Tom Lally, '06; Father O'DonneU, '41; Gary Myers, '59, pres.; Dr. Jim Kotehford, '49, v-p.; Joe Walsh, '14, sccy.-tieas.; Frank Hagcnbaith, '27; (standing, L-r.) Ehner Johnston, '23; Bob Rotchford, '49; Bemie Smyth, '55; Dr. Bob Maber, '35; Dr. Curran Higgins, '49; Vince Slatt, '43; Ed Bethke, '28; Franic Flaiucry, '31; Dick St John, '56; and BiU Wolter, '35. 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 
tirins President KEN MURPHY gave special thanks to Eastern representatives BILL MURPHY and AL 
yA PERRINE for jumping into the breach on that occasion. 
Muskegon 
I wish to report that we had a fine golf stag at Pontaluna Country Club on Tuesday, September 4, \vith JLM MORSE and STAN TYLER, JR., mainly responsible for tlic afTair. 
Wc were sorr>* to be advised at the last minute that "MOOSE" KRAUSE was unavoidably re­quired to stay away, but FATHER BRENNAN and BILL EARLEY added color and atmosphere from the University standpoint. 
Also we ^verc to have PAUL HORNUNG and Max McGce from the Packers but Lombardi A squelched that at the last minute. 
We had approximately 100 in attendance made up of alumni and friends and it is something that the people of our community arc beginning to look forward to from year to year. 
— LEO L. LIXCK, Secy. 

New Mexico 
Tlic annual picnic was again a great success this year, thanks to the excellent planning of picnic chairman DAVE BICKEL. U was held on Sunday, July 22, at the Benedictine Monaster^' at Pecos, New Mexico. Food was abundant, as was the beer. Wc followed the suggestion of ART BROWN and for the first time transported draught beer up lo 
A the Sangre dc Cristo Mountains. Though it was foamy after driving ttirough the mountains, the keg eventually settled and was enjoyed by all. 
Elections were held at the picnic and the officers arc: DICK EVERROAD, president; QUENT MISCHKE, vice-president; GARY CONNELL, treasurer; and DENNY MANGAN, secretary. 
Plans for the club include the annual football telecast party. This was skipped last year, but hopes arc that it will be resumed this year. 
In closing, two club members planned weddings in August. LARRY O'CONNELL will have wed Elizabeth Pcttit on August II, and DON RIGALI will have wed Barbara Gcraghty on August 25. 
—DENNIS L. M.\NGAN, '60, Seo'. 

New York 
9 JOE CALLAHAN chaired a weU-attcndcd Spring Smoker held at the Commodore Hotel, with Coach JOE KUHARICH and the .Alumni Board as guests of honor. 
July was mainly devoted to the small fry with JIM KELLY, CHARLIE QUINN, JR., and GEORGE WINKLER III staging a pool party for the Long Island division at the start of the month and BOB SCHRA,MM's Westchester division hold­ing a family picnic at the close. For the older folk, JOHN DUFFY and TONY EARLEY co­chaircd a much enjoyed Golf Outing at the North Hills Country Club. 
— GEORGE P. KRUG, '33, Secy. 

Peoria 
The third annual back-to-school dinner spon­sored by the Notre Dame Club of Peoria was held ­September 5 at Vonachcn's Junction north of Peoria. Chairman for the event, JOHN M/VNION, introduced the principal speaker, the Honorable .MICHAEL J. HOWLETT, auditor of the State of Illinois, who addressed the gathering of Notre Dame alumni, former students, friends, present students and their fathers on ''Citizens* Respon­sibility to Participate in Public .AfFairs." 
*'A father of six, he has long been active in the decent literature movement," said Manion. "The Catliolic War Veterans of America gave him a citation for his leadership against indecent litera­ture at a testimonial dinner in Chicago last year. 
*'Howlctt is an able state official and has re­

ceived wide recognition for his outstanding record ^ of economy in public ofHce. He has reduced his " payroll nearly 20 per cent below what the budget 
allows since he took otitce in Januar>', 1961. For this he has received praise from the Illinois Tax­payers' Federation and leading newspapers through­out the State. 
"Last January he opened his campaign for county audit legislation and shortly tlicreafter one scandal after another unfolded in county government offices throughout the state. He has upped his campaign for mandatory audits and is rapidly gaining the support of leading newspapers and county officials. 
h "Howlett has an established reputation as a force-
DETROIT — Rev. John E. Walsh, CS.C., director of the Notre Dame Fomidation (center), was one o( the guest speakers who welcomed 1962-63 President Jerry Ashley (left) and cheered 1961-62 President Bill Roney at the Detroit Club's Umversal Notre Dame Night 
last May. 
ful and eloquent speaker and has appeared before many Illinois ciWc organizations." 
iVnothcr feature of the evening was the presen­tation of the LT. JAMES A. CASSIDY Memorial Award for .Academic Excellence at the University of Notre Dame during the 1961-62 year, awarded to the Peoria area student at Notre Dame whose academic achievcmenis and the commendation of his dean merited his selection: he will receive a 
U.S. savings bond and a certificate commemorating the occasion. Lt. Cassidy was the son of Peoria attorney JOHN E. aVSSIDY, SR., who sponsored the award in memory of his son. 
The second . Memorial award for academic achievement was presented to KEVIN HEYD, '64. Ke\-in had a 4.972 grade point average in the Engineering-Law program. 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Peoria also planned a football trip to the N.D. vs. Michigan State game in South Bend on October 20, 1962. 
— J.AMES .McCOMB, Sec>-. 

Pittsburgh 
.•\t the Annual Family Communion Breakfast the following members were unanimousW elected as club officers for the vcar 1962; DONALD W. BEBENEK, '52, president; GEORGE W. BROWN, '52. vice-president; HUGH C. BOYLE, JR., '55, sccretar>-; and J. PETER FRID.AY, '50, treasurer. 
Don is planning a program of joint activities for both alumni and students in order to develop a mutually cfTcctive relationship between the two groups, and also to encourage students to become interested and active alumni upon graduation. He started with a September luncheon for the more recent graduates to acquaint them with the club activities. 
PETER F. FLAHERTY, '51, was chairman of the summer semi-formal dance held at the South Hills Country Club on June 15. Many students turned out for this affair. The club hopes to make this an annual event, which will ahvays be held after exams and graduation so that tlte students will be able to attend. 
By the fall of the year the club will have spon­sored a Family Swim Party, the Annual Golf Out­ing, and a Father-and-Son Rally for freshmen-to-be. The Family Swim Party was held on August 20 at the Community Swimming Club, O'Hara Township, Pa. .Activities included swimming from 3:00 P.M. until 9:30, outdoor cooking, and various athletic activities for all. 
EUGENE "SMOKEY" COYNE, '32. and JIM HUTCHINSON, '53, made arrangements for the duffer derby at Butler Countr>' Club on August 27. The party for the young men from Western Peun­s^'K'ania going to Notre Dame for the first time this fait and their dads was held at Stouffer's Restaurant In Oakland. ED MEELL, '58, directed the program, including talks by well-known N.D. personalities, a moWe, and special question and answer period. This affair was set for Thursday night, .August 30. 
— HUGH C. BOYLE, JR., *55, Secy. 

Rhode Island & 
Southeastern Massachusetts 
The Notre Dame Club of Rhode Island and Southeastern Mass. held a business meeting at Lindia's Restaurant in Cranston, R.I., on Wed­nesday, June 20, 1962. PHILIP B. TOOLE, '52, was re-elected president for another year. Other officers elected by the* Club were EDWARD P. DENNING, '49, Wce-president; AL GRZEBIAN, '49, treasurer: RICHARD F. DELMONTE, 'M, secre­tary; and WILLIAM ^VOLFE, '59, director. The nominating committee included PAUL HOEFFLER, '25, chairman; JA.MES M. McMULLEN, '36; and J.AMES E. .MURPHY, '49. 
Among the several points of business covered at this meeting was the appointment of DICK DEL­MON*TE, '54, as chairman of the **Going Away" party in September for the new freshmen entering Notre Dame this fall: 
Wc were very happy to welcome two brand new Notre Dame alumni to our organization, HOWARD SULLIVAN and BOB CHUPANELLl. both of the Class of 1962. Also attending for the first time was FRED BRINSKELLE, '56, who just recently moved into Riiode Island. 
All of these gentlemen and the several points of business discussed made this one of the best meet­ings held recently by the Alumni from . Rhode Island. 
— RICRARD P. DELMONTE, Sccf, 

Rochester 
The Rochester Club held its Annual Family Picnic 
at Ellison Park, July 7th. Approximately 20 families 
attended. FRANCIS CONSLER was chairman and 
ED CHRISTLANO was co-chairman of the event. 
The annual Fall Dance was to be held Friday, 
September 7th at Happy .Acres Country Club. 
JOHN ROGERS was chairman, and JOHN AN­
DRE^VS was co-chairman of the dance. Members 
of the incoming Freshman class and their parents 
were to be honored. 
Rome, Italy 
The Club's downtown Hospitality Center — open 
every day, all day, until late — is responding hand­
somely to the summer influx of visitors. Reflecting 
N.D.'5 famed family spirit, out-bound N.D. men 
and St. Mary's women are directing other collide 
and sundry folk to our door. 
We have been graced all summer by guesu from 
Fordham. Xfarquette, Memphis State, Texas Chris­
tian, Manhattanville, St. Mary's-of-the-Woods, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 21 
Dartmouth, Vale, Holy Cross, College of the Pacific, etc A notably significant guest vas Mr. Hatncr S*vcenc>-, President of the National Association of Catholic .Alumni Clubs. 
Other spotlight guests: Various and distinguished members of the General Chapter of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross, including FATHER HES­BURGH. The St. Mar>-'s Volunteers at Lourde*: Kathi Raeder. Pat and Terry Greeley, Joan Mikul­ka, Xanc>' Larr^-, and Denny Cavanaugh. 
Joining the increasing corps of volunteers at the Center, many of the following guests pitdied in to scrA'e others and to police the area between waves of visitors. 
Leading the summer list with color, was Lt. (j.g.) DON GILLIES, US.N". '59. wearing socks with N.D. knitted into them (by his wife). Star host-helper: BARRY MAHER, '62. Arriving to *'join the club." Dolly Moore Xeale ('43 SMC), whose husband is new Asst. Army .Attache. U.S. Embassy. 
And then the big parade: Mr. and Mrs. ED­MUND CURRY, Cliicago; Mr. and Mrs. LAW­RENCE STRABLE, '23, of Saginaw, Mich.: BILL HALLORAN, '27. ol River Forest, 111.; JEROME 
R. RYAN, 56, Brenkic, La.; son of TOM Mc-NICHOLES, '29. Orlando. Fla.; ED MALOXE. '59. Saginavi-. Mich.: .MIKE GLOCKNER, 'B4. Columbus. Ohio; DICK CUNNINGHAM, '57. North Creek, N.Y.; FR. CHARLES .M.ATUSIK. C.S.C.. '51: Father Warren Reich, brother of HARRY ('48) and LOUIS REICH ('51). Birming­ham, .Ala.; Lt. and .Mrs. JOHN THURIN, '59 (editor of DOME); GENE HOFFM.AN. '51. Oak Ridge. Tenn.; Dr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE BALD­INGER. N.D. Associate Dean of Science; Mr. and .Mrs. J.AMES SKAHAN, '31. Belmont. Mass. (JAMES JR., '61): .Mr. and .Mrs. D.AVID SCHEELE, '55. Arlington, Va.: sister ol JOE BIHN. '56. San Jose. Cal,: Barents of R. J. DOG­NAUX, '48, and FRANCOIS, '61. Vincennes, Ind.; GIL CARPENTER and RON IGNELSI, '62; Mr. and Mrs. JOE TIMLIN, '30. of N.V.C.: FR. JIM BURTCHAELL. C.S.C., with FR. QU1NL.AN, e.v-
N.D. Prof.: DA\'E SHANAHAN, '58. Lima. Ohio: JIM LINK and BOB STEPSIS, '63: BILL PIE­TROWICZ, •62. Chicago, (father, STEPHEN, '26): FR. WM. PERSIA. C.S.C.. neivlv ordained at LcMans. France.; JERRY CURRIER, '42 and '43. Detroit: parents of RAY LESCHER, '58, Chicago; BILL MAUS, '53, Ft. Lauderdale. Fla.; HENRY KETTEREI, '50 and '53, Phoenix. .Arizona; parents of FRED THON, JR., '59, and BILL, '61. San Juan. Puerto Rico; Joe Ballard and Rom Lovil. of Portland U. 
St. Marv-ites: Evelyn Hannon. '41; Rita Cooksey. '39; Connie Sheridan, '61; Peggy Zeis. '64 (dad 
R. H. ZEIS. '30: brotlier. R. H. JR., '54 Prcs. Denver Club); Claudia Touliey. '62: Sue Scharcr. Dorothy Xebcl, Joyce Langc, all '61. .And Holy Cross Sisters Aglae and Euphemia. 
Our address (use it for forwarding your Rome mail) is: X'otrc Dame Center, Larcn Brancaccio 
82. Rome. Italy. Ring us on arrival at: 730.002. 
— \TNCE McALOON, '34, Secy. 

Saginaw Valley 
On July 7 the Saginaw Valley Xotrc Dame Club held its Annual Summer Golf Picnic Golf at White Birch Golf Club gave an excellent afternoon of entertainment for the men. 
The picnic was held at CARL DOOZAX's cot­tage on beautiful Saginaw Bay. Delicious steaks and liquid refreshments were served. A fun-filled evening was enjoyed by all forty members attending. 
— LAWRENCE A. SMFTH, Secy.-Treas. 

St. Joseph Valley 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley entertained 38 new students in the South Bend­Mishass'aka area at a lundieon at Eddie's Restaurant before their enrollment at the Unis'crsilv. DR. WILLIAM M. BURKE, dean of freshman studies at Notre Dame, was the principal speaker at the affair on a program featuring Club officers and Uiiivcrsity oiHcials. Eight Xotrc Dame students attending the University on St. Joseph Valley Club scholarships were introduced by chairman CH.ARLES 
W. MAGNER. They are JOHN P. KU.MINECZ, JEROME F. KUMIXECZ, THOMAS P. GREEN, DANIEL McCAUSLIN, CONRAD MASLOWSKI, JOHN A. MEULEMAN. TIMOTHY THILMAN aid LARRY M. MORNINGSTAR. 
22 Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 
MID-HUDSON VALLEY — Campus representatives joined New York's New­burgh-Poughkecpsie area aliunni in honor­
ing William Blake, '87, on the 75th anniversary of his Class: (from left) Jim Armstrong, Father John Walsh (presenting Diamond Jubilee plaque with a section of the original Dome), Mr. Blake, and William Murphy. 
St. Louis 
Tim St. Louis Club lu-Id its Frrshman Kick-ofT as a combination Golf Day and^Sporls Night Pro­gram. It was licid at the Cr\'stal Lake Countr>" Club on Scpli-mbcr 6lli and we invited the Notre Dame graduate* that play pro football for the Detroit Lions and St. Louis Cardinals as our guests. The two clubs played the annual Cardinal Glennon Hospital Charity Football Game the next evening, Friday. Sept. 7lh. Many of the local Notre Dame .-Mumni attended this game in a group. Plans are being made for the Annual Football Trip to South Bend \-ia Chicago. Tliis will be for tlie Michigan State game October 20th. 
H.ARRY O'CO.N.NELL, '49, receiiily passed auay. 
His family has the sympathy of our club's mem­bers. DR. PHILLIP C. HIGGINS, '54, recently completed his residenc>* in obstetrics and has joined ^ the Air Force and can now be reached as Capt. Higgins, c/o Chanutc AFB, Illinois. .Also our s>-m­pathy to WILLIAM HUMMEL, '57, on the recent death of his father. Our club has a busy fall schedule planned and we will report it in our next letter. 
— HERMAN L. KRIEGSHAUSER, Sccy-Treas. 
Salina 
Despite the .August "dog days,*' the Salina Notre Dame Club got together the night of August 8th. We had a *'cook-out*' at Pioneer Lake south of Salina. We had.a real fine turnout. Twelve former 
N.D. men and three students presently attending, M plus a new N.D. man in town with General ^ Dynamics — GLENN SHELDON of the Clai-s of '58. Glenn's home is San Diego, but he'll call Salina home for a while. 
TOM CLAUSSEN, '59, has been elected chair­man of the local Red Cross Chapter. 
Salina'^s loss is Philadelphia's gain. LARRY WENTZ has certainly been a great member for the past couple of years. Separated from the .Air Force about Sept. 15, he'll return to Philly. his home town. If the N.D. Club there doesn't pick him up and make use of his talents and loyalty the>''rc making a big mistake. 
BOB McAULIFFE of the Class of ^'SJ was a member of the Salina Elks Ritualistic Team that took scventl) place in the national trials in Chicago ^ in July. Bob's working his way through the chain of the Elks. 
— AL SCHWARTZ, Pres. 

San Antonio 
On Thursday evening, the 16th of .August, the Notre Dame Alumni Club of San Antonio held an entertaining barbecue in the Safari Room of the Pearl Brewerv. Several new members were present, including Captain VLNCENT R. FERNANDES, '54, now assigned to Fort Sam Houston from Berlin: Captain BILL DeLANEY, '52, just transferred from the Far Ea.st to Kelly .\FB; Captain and Mrs. FRANCIS LITFZ, '57] a '61 graduate of Georgetown University Dental School, now assigned to Fort Sam Houston; and Colonel and Mrs. M. M. m Sheehan, whose son Michael will be a freshman " this year. 
Club President Captain LEO J. PARADISE, '49, announced that he and his wife Dorothy would entertain all students and parents at a cocktail party on 5 September, to be held at the Fort Sam Houston Officers' Club. 
An invigorating disciLSsion took place concerning this year's football prospects and several members 
DENVER — Two vignettes of the annual Denver Club picnic in August, held high in the Rockies: (left) Mr. and Mrs. Os Kastans, '41, relax in the shade of a mountain pine; 
(right) Jim Hilger, '56, uife Barbara, and children. As with most N.D. events, kids outnumbered adults. 
detailed their personal plans for attending the Notre 
Dame-Oklahoma game at Norman. Tlie meeting 
€• ended with a Texas size cheer for Notri: Dame and 
a u-arm expression of appreciation for the Pearl Bre^ver>' \%*hich provided the congenial atmosphere and liquid ambrosia that made this meeting such a success. 
— JAMES F. CARROLL, '55, S.-cy.-Treas. 

San Fernando Valley 
Tlie San Fernando Valley Notre Dame Attimni Club held their first annual Las Vegas Smorgas' bord on July 25 at the Sclilitz Broun Bottle Room in Van Nuys. Some 80 members and friends at­tended with the principal menu consisting of barbe­cued ribs and beef. Movies from the University 
f 0 provided the evening's entertainment along with the introduction of officers for the next two years. The appearance of many new faces helped make the affair a fine success. 
— DWALN F. SPENCER, Sec>-.-Treas. 

Schenectady 
The following men have been elected as officers of the Club for the 1962-63 vear: President, JOHN 
F. HURLEY, »37; Vice-President, DR. JOHN A. LORITSCH, '36; Secretar>-. JOHN E. DANIERI, '53; and Treasurer, L. L. WEISS, '37. 
This makes a full circle for me. Back in 1946 wheii we founded the Schenectady Chapter. I was ^ the first president. 
With the full support of a group which includes JACK HUETHER, DR. JOHN PHILLIPS, JOHN HOLL.AND, BILL LEONARD, DR. LEON ST. PIERRE and DR. GEORGE YORK (most of whom I am sure you know). I think the other officers and myself will be able to make some real progress in building the Notre Dame Aliimnt Group to its full stature here. At least we are going to give it a real try. 
Plans were completed for a "send-off" for the new students on September 10 and uc will have a number of other activitii's to report as time goes bv. 
— J. F. HURLEY, Pres. 

South Central Wisconsin 
_V The South Central Wisconsin Club held its sum­mer outing at the Mount Horeb Golf Bowl. Again, alumni and their families came from 60 miles to be with the group — F. L/\RRY LENZ, '49, Frecport, Illinois; THOM/\S W. FROST, '30. familv represented by sous NICK, '63. and Greg. Wateriown; FR. VINCE THILMAN, '35, St. Ber­nards. Watertown; FRANK HAMILTON, Dodge­
villc: LEN DORSCHEL, '25; PAUL BRANNON, '34; BERNARD .MIXTACKI, '50; KEN NIGLIS and JOSEPH RIEDER, all of Madison; Janesville and Baraboo were not represented. 
MIKE LEAHY, '39, organized the afternoon's 

golf activities and the dinner was emcced by Club -* President JOHN W. ROACH, '27, who elaborated -~ on the celebration the club is going to have on 
Saturday, October l3th at the Loraine Hotel after the Wisconsin game. .Ml Noire Dame alumni and friends will be welcomed at the Loraine Hotel. "Don't miss this one," says John! 
— THOMAS M. HINKES, '51, Secy. 

Spokane 
Tlie annual Summer Outing of the Notre Dame Club of Spokane was enjoved on Sunday, June 24th. Vice Pres. DR. JIAI ROTCHFORD, '49. and his gracious wife, Mar>', offered for the event the hospitality of the Hntchford cottage on beautiful Hayden Lake, Idaho. The weather was Ideal and ihe spacious beach front lawn of the cottage made the affair a delight for the following members, their wives and voungsters: ED BETHKE, '28; FfLVNK 
^ HERRON, '35; DR. BOB MAHER, '35; GARY 
-' MYERS, '59; RAY PENLAND, '56; DICK ST. JOHN, '56; RALPH SCHULLER, '57; BERNIE SM\TH, '55; JI.M TWOHEY, '56; BILL COONEY, '50 (Mrs. Rolchford's brotlier); and JOE WALSH, '14. 
The Club vvas honored on Julv jih by a visit from FATHER THO.MAS 0*DONNELL, C.S.C. Father O'DonneU Is the first person from Notre Dame to visit the Club in many years, and lie was greeted with the proverbial red carpet. A 'A stag dinner at the C3ra\'an Inn on Sunset Hill (sec M picture), with Father O'DonneU highlighting it with 
:-^^i:xmdm 

WESTERN WASHINGTON —Seattle alumni, bursting with Worid's Fair hosphaEtj, were luncheon hosts in July for Rev. Thomas J. O'DonneU, CS. C almnai fidd director on a tour of West Coast installations: (seated, from left) Gtotge Starbuck, Father O'DonneU, and Vice-President Al "Space Needle" Toth; (standing, t-r.) Cole McKcnna, Bud Daviscourt, Ted Cumniings, Chairman Ben Lenouc, Dan Conley, Bert Mctzger, Jr., and Treasurer Tom May. 
his wit. litimnr and iiilcrcstini; mosaics from Father Hesburgli, was attended by the following 
Toledo 
members: ED BETHKE, '28; FR.AN FLANNERY, TOM WELLY arranged for us to hear FR. 
'31; DR. CURR.AN HIGGINS, '49; FRANK EDMUND JOYCE on N.D. night. Fr. Joyce HAGENBARTH, '27; EL.MER JOHNSTON, '23; spoke of the many additions to the physical plant TOM L.\LLY, '06; DR. BOB .MAHER, '33; GARY on campus and their importance in the University's .MYERS, '39; DR. JI.M ROTCHFORD, '49; BOB 
goals. 
ROTCHFORD, '49; DICK ST. JOHN, '36; VINCE SLATT, '43; RALPH SCHULLER, '37; BERNIE 
New Club officers were installed the same evening S.MYTH, '53; BILL WOLTER, '35; and JOE 
—Pres., JOE KALB.AS; VIce-Pres., TOM WEtLY; WALSH, '14. 
Secy., DICK MERKEL; and Treas., JIM SILK. New members to the Board of Directors were URB 
Chairman FRANK HAGENBARTH made plans GRADEL, DICK COLASURD, and outgoing [or the Club's annual closed Retreat the week end President, TERRY O'LOUGHLIN. of September 21st at the Immaculate Heart Retreat 
URB GRADEL organized a July golf outing — House, Moran Prairie. This is the third such the winners: JOHN SCHMIDT—«2; FRANK GIL-exercise. 
HOOLEY and JOE JASINSKI—tied • at 86: 
— JOE WALSH, '14, Secs-.-Treas. GEORGE KORHUMEL—longest drive; and JOE JASINSKI—closest to pin. 
JI.M PFEIFFER organized fall Kick.Oir meeting and JOHN .MALONE, head of the marketing dcpt. at N.D., wa; guest speaker. 
— DICK MERKEL, Secj-. 

Washington, D.C. 
The annual Notre Dame Stag Picnic and Golf Outing was held Thursday. June 21^ at Falls Road Golf Course. Potomac, .Md. AL VIROSTEK was in charge of the tee-offs. The outing and dinner were held on Our Lady of Merc\-'s wooded grounds in Bethcsda, Md., with sports and refreshment on tap in the afternoon and a buffet dinner in the evening. 
The annual Notre Dame Family Picnic for alumni and friends was scheduled from noon until dark on .August 25 at Dowling's farm near OIncy, Md. .-V variftv of food, refreshments and games were .scheduled by AL VIROSTEK and JOHN D.ANIELS. 
.\ cocktail party was announced for Sept. 9. 
Western Washington 
REV. THO>L\S J. O'DONNELL was a July luncheon guect of the Seattle alumni, who have seen many Notre Dame men visiting the World's Fair, 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY — Headliners 
West Virginia 
at Hartford's U.N.D. Night observance 
The new ofHccrs of the Notre Dame Club of 
included (from left): Bob McGoldrick, 
West Virginia are: DICK SCHAFER. prcsident; Valley Club president; Thomas Curry, BOB SCALISE, vice-president; and WEB ARCE-named Notre Dame Man of the Year; NEAUXy secretary-treasurer. 
We are looking forward to another good year of 
and Father Louis Thornton, University 
fellowship among the Notre Dame alumni in our 
director of placement and guest speaker 
area. from the campus. — W. J. ARCENEAUX, JR., '54, Secy.-Treas. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 23 
RAYMOND J., '50 and REV. D. JAMES SUL­

LIVAN, C.S.C., '53, on the death of their father, July 14, 1962. ROBERT V. WXLCH, '30, on the death of his mother, June 9, 1962. THOMAS M. CLAYDON, '31, on the death 
Classes 
of his father. 
Engagements 
Miss Kathleen Anne Lobo and JOHN B. -MA­GILL, '54. Miss Jovcc Arlele Lalinc and DR. AMEEL G. RASHID, '33. Miss Carol Beth McXulty and ROBERT A. 

LOEFFLER, JR., '58. Miss Mar>- Ann Ward and DALE J. ARPASI, "60. Miss Marv- Virginia Hoose and JOHN" P. 
SWARTZ '60. Miss Kathleen Marie Doolcy and 2/LT. CHARLES F. DI GIOV.-VXNA, '62. Miss Frances Donaldson and 2/LT. KENNETH J. KELLY, '62. Miss Helen Eleanor Pausiek and LOUIS N. ROBERTS, '62. Miss Marjoric .Anne Weinberg and P.MJL K. ROOXEY, '62. 
Marriages 

Miss Ann -Marie 0'Malle>- and JOHN W. SCHINDLER, JR., '43, Rutherford, N.J., Mav 26. Miss Susan Moran and MICH.AEL J. WHELAN, 
'52. Neu- Haven, N.Y., June 9. Miss Mac Chan Jun and V.\LENTINE CHU.N, '54, San Francisco, Calif., June 23. 
Miss Hollcy J. Jones and DR. RAYMOND S. ROSEOALE, JR., '54, New Orleans, La., July '. Miss Jean L. Kreuzcr and RICHARD C. 
SCHEIBELHUT, '55, Chicago, III., May 19. 
Miss Katherine Marv Undenvood and DR. J.AMES N. EUSTERMANX, '56, Rochester, Minn.. August 4­
Miss Louise Rliinelander and JOHN CAROL DOYLE, '37, New York, N.Y., July 4. Miss Lorraine Malattia and ROBERT J. O'KEEFE, '57, Cicero, 111., Januarj- 13. Miss Patricia Ryan and GERALD D. BURNS, '38, Hillside, N.Y-, .August 4. 
Miss Mary Jane -Anthony and H. GREGORY KILDUFF, '58, '61, Notre Dame, Ind., .August 23. 
Miss Ann Vcionica Swan and DR. DAVID G. KRAlklP, '58, St. Louis, Mo., June 4. Miss Anne ^L Connaghan and WILLLAM G. McNALLY, '59, Mount Carmel. Pa., June 30. Miss Eniko DePottjondy and BEL.A E. PI.ACSEK, '59, *61, East Lansing, Mich., June 9. Miss Mary Druktcn and HAROLD A. SIEGEL, JR., '39, Nutley, N.J., August 4. Miss Pamela Bourn and JAMES J. DOMISELLO, JR., '60, South Bend, Ind., June 23. Miss Delores Zcisz and EDWARD W. HANNA, '60, '61, South Bend, Ind., Aprfl 24. Miss Mar>- Rose Serroi and ROBERT C. JAK­LEVIC, '60, Notre Dame, Ind., June 23. Miss Marilyn Joan Miller and DAVID F. M.A­LONE, '60, Notre Dame, Ind., June 9. Miss Ann Elizabeth Weber and PAUL J. MUL­CAHY, JR., '60, South Orange, N.J., June 2. Miss Barbara Joan Millwater and GER.ALD M. O'MARA, '60, Washington, D.C.. July 14. Miss Catherine Napicrala and PAUL J. UHITE, '60, Wanatah, Ind., May 12. Miss Diane Virginia Dickerson and MICIL\EL 
D. BIRO, '61, Boise, Idaho, August 18. Miss Carol Ann Ellithom and JEROME J. CROWLEY, JR., '61, Notre Dame, Ind., June 23. Miss Deborah Rose Peeney and LT. JAMES P. HICKEY, '61, East Stroudsburg, Pa. Miss Judith Grace Lehmann and GEORGE S. MACOR, '61, Newark, N.J., May 26. Miss Barbara Kerbin and THO-MAS F. ARM­STRONG, '62, Upper Montdair, N.J., August 18. Mbs Carolyn Ann Weller and RONALD \S'. BORKOWSKI, '62, South Bend, Ind., August 25. Miss Barbara Kubiak and VINCENTT P. MICUCCI, '62, South Bend, Ind., July 7. MUs Susan £. Decker and MAXI.MILIAN H. BURNELL, II, '62, Notre Dame, Ind., May 26. Miss Charlene Ann Fecteau and NEIL T. BUT­LER, '62, South Bend, Ind., July 14. Miss Diana Lynn Febbo and DAVID P. KANE, '62, South Bend, Ind., August 25. Miss Yvonne Nevelle and ROBERT J. KENNY, '£2, South Bend, Ind., June 2. 
Miss Jacquelyn Anne Reuwer and BARRY W. RYAN, '62, Notre Dame, Ind., June 5. 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 
Miss Maureen Louise Eardlev and ANDREW A. SCHW-AB, '62. Grand Rapids, Midi., July 21. Miss Kay D. Vogelsang and JOHN F. WIL­BRAHAM, '62, Niles, Mich., June 9. Miss Sybille Waizenegger and ALBERT K. WI.M­MER, '62, Notre Dame, Ind.. June 2. 
Births 

Mr. and Mrs. D,\X1EL P. BARLOW, '48, a son, Joseph Philip Martin, May II, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES K. DONOHUE, '48, a daughter. Monica, June 5, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. GERARD F. SARB, '48, a daugh­ter, April 24, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. WILLLAM L. WHITELY, '48. a son, William L., Jr., Mav 17, 1962. -Mr- and Mrs. JOHN H. O'REILLY, '30, a daughter, Carol Jean. June 2, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN E. DORAN, '31, a son. June 1, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. P-AUL A. HESSLING, '32, twins, son and daughter, Mav 17, 1962. Dr. and -Mrs. FREDERICK R. SCHLICHTING, '52, a son, John Gavin, July 20, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD F. CONDON, JR., '33, a daughter, Clare Marie, August 4, 1962. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. CO-N'NORS, JR., '54, twins, Edward Joseph, III and Mary Killav, June 21, 1962. 
-Mr. and Mrs. J.AMES CORCORAN, '54, a daughter, Roscmarv Catherine. May 30, 1962. -Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD DOYLE, '56, a son. May 21, 1%2. Mr. and Mrs. THO^LAS JEFFERS, '36, a son. Thomas, Jr., .August 22. 1962. Mr. and -Mrs- TIMOTHY F. MURPHY, '56, a daughter, Marv Elizabeth. August ID, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. CLEMENT J. O'NEILL, '36, a daughter, Kathleen Tlierese, Julv 15, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. CARL J. SEHERER, '36, a son, Samuel Joseph, December 12, I96I. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT T. GALLA, '37, a son, Matthew Vincent, July 3, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. DONALD R. HANISCH, '57, a daughter, Mary Michde, June 26, 1%2. Mr. and Mrs. D.AVID MURPHY, '37, a son, Michad Dand, July 2, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. MARK STOREN, '37, a daughter, Hannah LMIU, June 13, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM -M. TOLLE, JR., '37, a son. Mr. and Mrs. WALTER DONNELLY, JR., '58, a daughter, Michdic Joan, July 9, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS K. PLOFCHAN, '59, a daughter, Elizabeth Ann, Julv 7, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH F. J.ANSEN, '60, a son, John Michad, June 6, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. WALTER J. RUDGE, '60, a son, Michad Patrick, May 19, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. NORBERT L. WIECH, '60, a daughter, Stephanie Marie, Julv 4, 1962. Mr. and Mis. F. PATRICK KELLY, '61, a daughter, Peggy Irene, June 17, 1962. 
Sympathy 

FRANK W. HOWLAND, '23, on the death of his mother, April 25, 1962. FRANK J. MOOTZ, '27, on the death of his wife, July 29, 1962. JOHN J. DONAHUE, '29, on the death of his mother, August 8, 1962. LOUIS R. CHREIST, JR., '33, on the death of his mother, July 27, 1962. 
REV. JOHN F., '38, RICHARD J., '39 and J.AMES H. ANTON, '44, on the death of their father, August 22, 1962. 
J. GERALD NILLES, '44, on the death of his father. May 15, 1962. 
BROTHER THOMAS, C.S.C., '48, GEORGE, '50, and WILLIAM R. -McCULLOUGH, '33, on the death of their father, August, 1962. 
WILLIAM H. DUFFEY, '49, on the death of his father. \VILLIAM R. BRODERICK, '30, on the death of his father. JOHN J. RYAN, JR., '50, on the death of his father, June, 1958. 
^ 
m 
RUDOLPH A. HUNZIKER, '32, on the death 

of his father. 
JOHN E. DONOHUE, '34, on the death of his 

father. 
RICHARD J., '54 and PAUL H. DE.\IGER, '60, 
on the death of their father, June 15. 1962. 
THOMAS C. KINSLER, JR., '55, on the death 
of his father, December. 1961. 
CLIFFORD McNAMARA, JR., '53, on the death 

of his father, April, 1962. 
JOHN F. G.AR\'EY, '56, on the death of his 
father. -May 8, 1962-^ 
REX. A. BELL, *57, on the death of his Father, 

July, 1962. 
WILLIAM C. HUM.MEL, '57, on the death of 
his father. Julv 24. 1962. 
GERALD R. M.AURER, '38, on the death of 
his father. 
JOHN HASLEY, '59, on the death of his father. 
-August 17, 1962­
RICHARD F. HUGHES, '59, on the death of 
his father, December 22, 1960. 
JOHN G. BYRNE, JR., '60, on the death ol 
his father. June 27. 1962. 
STEPHE.\ G. GUIHEE.\, '60, on the death of 
his father, December 16, 1961. 
Deaths 1 

COL. FRANK FEHR, '93, former president of the oldest brcwerj* in Louisville, Kentucky, died August 14, 1962. Col, Fchr was a lineman on the first Notre Dame football team. His wife sur\ives. 
HUNTER M. BENNETT, '97, of Weston, West Virginia, died January 17, 1962, according to in­formation received in the Alumni Office. He is sur\-ived by his wife. 
ROBERT P. BROWN, '98, of Vancouver, British Columbia, died June 22, 1962. Mr. Brou-n was a \*arsity lettcrman in football and baseball. His wife sur\ives. 
FRANK H. HESSE, '01, died in Fort Madison, Iowa, ^fay 21, 1962. No details, 
TIMOTHY C. CRIMMINS, '02, died in 1960 % in the Veterans' Hospital in New Mexico, ac­cording to word received in the Alumni Office. 
PETER A. WOZNUK, '02, died in Chicago, Illinois, according to mail returned to the Alumni OfSce. No details. 
ALBERT A. KOTTE, '06, of Miami Beach, Flori­da, died July 6, 1962. Sur\-ivins arc his wife, a son and two daughters. 
VARNUM A. PARISH, '08, former Kanlcalcee County state's attorney, died in Momcncc, Illinois, April 25, 1962. He is surtived by his wife, three daughters, a son, and two brothers. 
GEORGE P. WALSH, '10, oE Shaker Heights, ^ Ohio, died February 3, 1962, according to informa-V tlon received in the .Alumni Office, 
DR. HENRY C. MORITZ, '11, of Detroit, Micli­igan, died in October, 1961, according to mail re­turned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
FRED J. BOUCHER, *I2, of Hamilton, Ontario, died April 10, 1962, according to information re­ceived from his wife. 
EDGAR KOB.\K, *16, of New York, New York, died in June, 1962, according to word received in the Alumni Office. His wife sur\'ives. 
JOHN H. FRIED\L\N, '17, chairman of the board of National Macliincry Co. of Tiffin, Ohio, died July 2, 1962. He received the honorary de­gree of Doctor of Humane Letters by Heidel­berg College in 1958, Sur\'ivors include his widow, a son and daughter by his former ^vifc, deceased, and a sister. 
KNOWLES B. SMITH, '18, former head of the m Geology Department at Notre Dame and curator " of the Universit>''5 science museum, died June 24, 1962, in South Bend, Indiana. He is sur\'ivcd by liis wife, a son and daughter. 
ALFRED N. SLAGGERT, '21, '22, of Saginaw, Michigan, died March 23, 1962. The fir^t student ever to receive a monogram other than a playing member of an athletic team, he also was orator of his graduating class and served as editor of both the weekly and annual publications. He scr\'ed as a professor of law at the University of Detroit ^ 
(Continued on page 29) V 

An intellectual service of the University of Notre Dame for the constant enrichment' of the minds ; 
of Notre Dame's diverse family 
tkesDUiieTlADlTIOl 
THE MICE OF TRIVIALITY: EXCERPTS FROM THE SCREEN ARTS* 
EDWARD A: FISCHER, associate professor of com­munication arts at Notre Dame, served as a juror at the International Film Festival in Venice A^igust SS-September 8. In each of the past two years he has been a juror at the 
% American Film, Festival in New York City. In addition to his teaching at the University, Prof. Fischer is a motion picture-television critic and columnist for AVE MARIA magazine. He is author of The Screen Arts (from which these remarks are taken with the kind permission of the publisher, Sheed & Ward), a book of critical standards that is currently being translated into five languages. He is also associate editor of the quarterly magazine published by the University Film Producers Association, an organization of sixty institutions which produce educational motion pictures. A 19S7 Notre Dame graduate, he has had professional ex­perience in all forms of mass communications. 
_ The Author to The Reader 
Too often I hear the lean mice of trivialities nibbling at my allotted chunk of time. When I gather with strangers in a poorly illuminated vastness to watch a motion picture or sit with my family at home to watch a television program, the question keeps intruding, "Is it worth the time?" For I am more concerned with getting my time's worth than my money's worth. , 
When it comes to using mass communications the question is one of how much time can you afford rather than how much money can you afford. A quite humble income buys the newspaper, several magazines, a handful of motion pic­ture tickets, a television set and a radio. You get your money's worth even though you use the newspaper only to wrap gar­^ bage, save the magazines for the Boy Scout paper drive, go " to the movies to enjoy the conditioned air and keep the TV set and radio in case there is an alert you ought to be in on. 
In mass communications the time problem might, in fact, be the biggest moral problem of all. When the word morality is mentioned in the same sentence with the words motion pic­tures and television, it usually has something to do with a complaint about low-cut necklines or violence, a complaint-that puts the blame on the industry. But the audience ought to share some blame. Anyone who slimips there hour after hour watching inane shimmerings on a screen is guilty of wanton time killing. Everyone has a more noble destiny than 
^that. 
I am not against recreation and relaxation. Anyone doing what he is supposed to be doing needs to recharge the batteries from time to time, but this recharging should take place at a certain altitude. Recreation ought to expand the spirit a frac­tion of an inch, or at least not shrink it. Anyone who sops up movies and television programs without discrimination is getting more than liis share of the shoddy, the phony, the tinny, and his spirit vrill be narrowed and coarsened by the experience. 
WHY BOTHER? 

It is possible to use films and TV, not to kill time, but to live beyond what our own living can be. For one thing, these can be used, like literature, to give some feeling for the texture of life. Of course only the best films and television\programs do 
9 that. Let us look at some definite examples. Paddy Chayefsky's play, Marty, first on television and then on film, has in it the texture of life. It is about Marty Pilletti, a butcher, whose soul is as lonely as a freight train's whistle. He lives in the Bronx and hangs around with a bunch of fel­lows whose lives are hemmed in by mean circumstance and small imagination. Marty is fat and homely and thirty-four. His mother and the women who come to his butcher shop chide him for not getting married; they keep stinging him 
A with, "You ought, to be ashamed of yourself, Marty, a man 
by-Edward Fischer 

your age and not married." He wants to get married, but no-­
body will have him. By chance he meets Clara, a pliiin Jane, 
a "dog" in the language of the neighborhood, ^ e too lias 
passed beyond lonesomeness on down into loneliness. r^ -. 
The story of Marty's and" Clara's aching, need for each 
other helps the audience live beyond its own living. The story, 
gives insight and understanding, and, inevitably, compassion 
with the problem of loneliness. Marty is as saturated with the 
theme of loneliness as Macbeth is''saturated with the theme 
of ambition. ' . . .^ , 
Thornton Wilder's The Skin of Our Teeth does a remark­
able job of making the audience feel man's fallen nature. 
It is something of a morality play that was written for the 
stage and later became a teledrama. -j ­
The Antrobus family represents every man who ever lived , or who ever will live. Through it the .audience gets-insights ' into the flaws of human nature and realizes how man contin­ually fails because-he never really learns from other people's mistakes. The play is full of man's! monotonous struggle against his weaknesses and against the forces of nature^ bat it is not pessimistic. Optimism prevails because man insists on keeping alive Religion, symbolized by the Bible, and Learning, symbolized by Homer, Archimedes and Aristotle., 
Another Wilder play that has the texture of life is Our, 
Toion. It was written for the stage and later brought to motion 
picture and television audiences. 
As an example of what I mean by the texture of, life, or teaching a truth of life, take the scene where Emily, the newly buried young mother, is permitted to leave the cemetery and return to Grover's Comers for one day. She is told it must be _ a quite ordinary day and she chooses her twelfth birthday. We see her in the kitchen at daybreak watching her mother get breakfast. In the scene Emily is, at once, a child of twelve and a mature woman who can look back on life with the eyes of one who has departed it. When she speaks as the child, her mother hears her, but when she speaks as the woman returned from the grave only the audience and the Stage Manager can hear. It goes something like this: 
Emily says softly, more in wonder than in grief. "I can't bear i t They're so young and beautiful. Why did they have to get old? I can't look at everything hard enough. .. . Oh, Mama, just look at me one minute as though you really saw me. .. . It goes so fast. We don't have time to look at one another." , 
She breaks down and sobs to the Stage Manager: "I didnt realize. So all this was going on'and we never noticed. Take ( me back — up the hill — to my grave. But first: Wait! One more look. Goodbye, goodbye, world. Goodbye, Grover's Cor­ners. . . . Mama and Papa. . . . Goodbye to clock's ticking . . . . and Mama's sunflowers. And food and coffee.' And new-, ironed dresses and hot baths. . . . and sleeping and waking up. Oh, earth, you're too wonderful for anyone to realize yon." 
She asks abruptly, "Does any human being ever realize life while they live it? — every, every minute?" "No," says the Stage Manager. "The saints and poets may­be — they do some." , 
"I'm ready to go back," says Emily. 
These three plays — Marty, The Skin.of Our Teeth and Our Town — are examples of recreation at its best They truly refresh. They lift the spirit and seem to sharpen the senses — they are himianizing experiences. They make us "see"^more, and understand more, and.feel more deeply. As Emily would say, they make us "realize" life, if only momentarily. , 
Films and television plays with the texture of life in them are not the only ones worth attending to. Televition offers useful, informational programs, such as the documentaries 
•Copjright 1960, Shced a Ward, Inc. , _ , ' ; 
on Twentieth Century and Conquest and the conversations on Small World. The films offer such entertainments as Lili, The Mouse That Roared and The Green Man, entertainments that have substance to them. They are not "great art," but they are not tinny. They do not send you from the theater feeling the whole world is flat and stale. They do not stultify the spirit 
AESTHETIC SQUALOR 
This stultification of the spirit is also a moral problem. 
Father Gerald Vann, O.P., in writing about the movies in 
The Commonweal, said, "We are so accustomed to living in 
a World of man-made ugliness that it may never occur to us 
that ugliness of that sort means degradation, and degradation 
is a moral evil. It may never occur to us that the wanton 
creation of ugliness is a sin as the wanton infliction of pain is 
a sin." 

Father Vann thinks that the great moral problem in motion 
pictures might be "the degradation of tlie human spirit 
through the aesthetically squalid." There's the rub — the aes­
thetically squalid. Some people are alert to double-meaning 
quips on television shows and to over-exposure in foreign films 
and yet are not pained by the aesthetically squalid. So long as 
he is cagey about double meanings and over-exposure, a pro­
ducer can keep these people placated while he goes to and fro 
in the land uglying-up God's world with the phony and the 
tinny. If the producer plays his cliches right he may even get 
an award from groups that would be shocked to hear that 
they are promoting things which degrade the human spirit. 
Aesthetic squalor is not new to our time, but it has taken on a new seriousness with the xise of mass communications, especially with the growth of television. As John Shanley, radio-television editor of the New York Times said, "If we were to imagine the components of culture in the United States as a group of buildings in a community, the structure repre­senting television would be the biggest in town." He believes that television has a greater influence on American culture than does the motion picture, the stage, the art gallery, the concert hall or the book. 
When the truth of the power of television dawned on one college professor, he said, "It's as dangerous to culture as the atom bomb is to civilization." The professor, and all of us who teach, might be especially careful about looking down on any means of communication; our O'OTI inadequacies are only too clear. Had we developed discernment in the classroom, there would be better TV programs, better motion pictures and better everything in the field of mass communications. Schools have done a better job in teaching facts and figures than they have in teaching discernment 
.. . As Walt Whitman said, "To have great poets there must be a great audience," and this can be reworded to read, "To have television with some soul there must be audiences with enough soul to appreciate it." 
CULTIVATING TASTE 
Developing appreciation is a touchy business. A man might readily admit that he cannot drive a nail, or make a speech, or write a letter, but it is a rare soul who willingly admits he does not know what is good in motion pictures and television. As a friend of mine who is a newspaper editor says, "Everybody thinks he can do three things better than anybody else in the world — handle a drunk, put out a fire and run a newspaper," and to this he might add, "criticize motion pictures and tele­vision." 
Most people have as standards only their likes and dislikes. They waUc out of a movie saying, "It was good, I liked it," or "It was no good, I didn't like it" The whole world of the arts revolves around whether or not they like something. It never dawns on them that a critic might sometimes say, "It was good, but I didn't like it," or "It was no good, but I liked it." _ I have used the word standards in the previous paragraph with an uneasy spirit. Staiidards sounds so scientific, like The Bureau of Staridards, as though a work of art could be put on a scale and weighed, or held against a ruler and measured. There are standards for motion pictures and for television . . . but they cannot be used like a tire-pressure gauge or a me­chanic's check list An artist cannot keep a list of standards at his elbow to make sure his work is distinguished in every 
detail, nor can a critic cold-bloodedly hold such a list up to a 
work of art. ^ 
Art is art; it is not bookkeeping. • 
The artist and the critic both work from sensitized feelings and highly developed intuitions. Reading about standards helps somewhat in sensitizing the feelings and in developing intuitions. But it is also possible to memorize all the stan­dards ever printed and still have vulgar taste. The capacity to enjoy and appreciate is developed by studying standards and by coming into frequent contact with the best things in the arts, especially under the guidance of a cultivated mind. This system eventually leads to attitudes and to habits of mind that are more satisfying to the viewer than a collection of his un­cultivated likes and dislikes. .. . 
The Impact of Television 

SURVEYS show that thirty-three percent of the television set owners flip a knob and accept whatever comes shimmering into view. The system is as unreasonable as walking blindfold into a library, groping toward the shelves and checking out the first book that comes to hand. Anyone "who accepts tele­vision on a catch-as-catch-can basis is certain to waste time. The percentages are against him, for the inane programs out­number the substantial. 
Television can be of real value if used with sense and rea­son. As I said in the early pages, some things on television can help us feel the texture of life — RequieTn for a Heavy- (J weight. Call Me Back and Catered Affair. Television lets us live beyond what our own living can be — Project SO, Twen­tieth Century and John Gunther's High Road. It informs through newscasts, panel discussions and special events tele­casts.. It teaches with Camera Three, Continental Classroom and the lectures of Leonard Bernstein. 
Most shows on television are for entertainment only. The audience has the problem of finding the ones that entertain at a certain altitude, such as the specials Peter Pan, Annie Get Your Gun and An Evening with Fred Astaire. 
Television takes its cue from popular taste. What people watch on television is not just the individual's problem but part of a national problem, for what is followed and what is shunned shapes this powerful medium. "And it is powerful. A A Roper poll learned what a grip TV has when it asked: "Sup­pose you could continue to have only one of the following — radio, television, newspapers or magazines — which one of the four -rtrouldyou want to keep?" To that question, forty-two percent answered that they would keep television, thirty-two percent newspapers, nineteen percent radio, four percent magazines, and three percent did not know. 
GUIDES TO GOOD VIEWING 
This powerful influence on the national culture is doomed to emptiness if the audience supports the inane. To show how ;J the impression gets around that the audience prefers inanities, the producers of Playhouse 90 will tell yon that the only time their program was rated among the ten most popular shows was the week they dropped drama in favor of Mike Todd's Madison Square Garden party. When an inferior show is sup­ported that is unfortunate, but when something superior is allowed to die from inattention, that is tragic. Some programs that would be nice to have around have died for lack of attention: See It Now, The Search, American Inventory, Odyssey, Seven Lively Arts, Studio One, Mr. Peepers, You Are Tliere, Goodyear-Philco Television Playhouse, What in the Worldf and Wide Wide World. The list of such happy memories could be extended. 
How is one to know what TV programs are worthy of attention? It takes a little doing to find out The critics can help. At least they can lead you toward, or head you oflf from, J a regular series. But what about the specials — those things that are here tonight and gone forever; a review of them in tomorrow's paper is not much help. 
For specials you will have to make a judgment in advance. To do that you will have to keep up on television news. The log in the daily paper is not helpful, since it does not give details. TV Guide is useful because it runs a box giving details about programs above run-of-the-mill. The back page of Time lists shows that give promise for the week to come. SomeO newspapers run weekly TV supplements that include news 
^ articles about major progi-ams scheduled for the week. If you want to get the most from television you ought to get in the habit of following the credits. They will make you familiar with the names of people who have the habit of doing things well. If the program you watched was not worth watch­ing, the credits will not be worth watching either, but if you see something that is more than lackluster, note the name of the director and the producer. You will find that certain direc­tors tend to get the best shows, because they can do the most with what they get, and certain producers have a way of or­ganizing things with a little distinction to them.. After you have made such observations, when you see a familiar name in a preview article it will prompt you to watch the program. 
^ As a start, here are some directors worth following: Eobert Mulligan, Delbert Mann, John Frankenheimer, George Schae­fer, Franklin Schaffner, Tom Donovan and Alan Schneider. Here are some producers that have brought good things to the television screen: Eobert Saudek, Eobert Herridge, Martin Manulis, Fred Coe, John Houseman, Herbert Brodkin, Eobert Graff, Mildred Freed Alberg, David Susskind, Gordon Duif, Eobert Alan Arthur, Eichard Walsh, Pamela Hott, Arthur Penn, Burton Benjamin, Fred Friendly, Edward E. Murrow. 
There is no point of talking about programs worthy of the power of television without giving specific examples. Here are some programs on the air in the Spring of 1960 that are ex­
9 amples of television well used: Camera Three, World Wide 60, John Gunther's High Road, American Scene, Lamp Unto My Feet, Look Up and Live, Johns Hopkins FUe, College News Conference, Ask Washington, Open Hearing, Conquest, G£. College Bowl, Time: Present, Small World, Meet the Press, Twentieth Century, Our American Heritage, Woman!, Du­Pont Show of the Month, General Electric Theater, Ford Startime, Hallmark Hall of Fame, Project 20, Wisdom, Sunday Showcase, Playhouse 90, Continental Classroom, US. Steel Hour, Pontiac Star Parade, Bell Telephone Hour, NBC Opera, CBS Reports. 
I missed some good ones, I am sure; for one thing I omitted the specials that do not fit into a regular series, and I did not attempt to survey programs beamed by the fifty educational 
0 stations, and I made no effort to track down excellent local shows that are little kno^vn outside their areas. But the list is complete enough to give you an idea of what I mean by tele­vision worthy of your time. Certainly, I have listed more pro­grams than anyone has time to watch. 
BABY SITTEE OE EDUCATOE? 
I kept children's shows off the list because I want to talk about them separately. The effect of television on children causes more concern than anything else about the medium. The concern is not unfounded, because, as Plato said, chil­
li di-en should be guided by a love of excellence even in play. There is much on television that does not gnude by a love of excellence. 
George Santayana said, "In poetry, feeling is transferred by contagion ... " In all the arts and in all forms of com­munication there is a certain "catching" of attitudes, especial­ly in the young. To put it bluntly, everyone who appears on the TV screen is a "carriei-." The attitudes that Superman and Sheena infect children with are not those that lead to a love of excellence. 
The channels are not crowded with children's shows that lead to a love of excellence. Among the good ones are Captain 
Kangaroo, Mr. Wizard, Disneyland, Ding Dong School, Romper Room, Huckleberry Hound and Young People's Con­certs. It is too bad we lost Kukla, Fran and Ollie, Zoo Parade, The Boing-Boing Show and Leifs Take a Trip, for we could 
W use them. 
In any discussion about the effect television has on children the tendency is to.go whooping off to one extreme or the other. I tend toward one extreme and I and my fellow extrem­ists are a lonely lot; most of the extremists are at the other end of the pasture. ; 
I am of the extreme that gives television more credit than it deserves. Whenever children show knowledge that surpiises me I tend to give credit to TV, a credit sometimes misplaced. 
9 I was reminded of that while reading an essay by Coventry 
Patmore written before the coming of TV. In writiiiff about 
children's intuitive knowledge, Patmore tells of a seven-year­
old boy saying, "What makes" this ball drop when I leave 
hold of it? — Oh, I know, the ground pulls it " The child had 
never heard of the Newtonian theory of gravitation. Patmore 
tells of another child, who while stretching out on a gravel 
path staring intently at pebbles, said, "They are alive. They 
are always wanting to burst, but something draws them In." 
If the essay had been written since the coming of television 
I would have suspected that the children had been watching 
Don Herbert's Mr. Wizard or Dr. Harvey White's Continental 
Classroom. 

The other extremists give TV more discredit than it de­serves. They fear it will develop a generation of monsters all eyes and no brains. Some of the things I have read lead me to think that their side is as wrong as mine. Here are some ex­amples: 
"For years teachers, principals, superintendent^ and school boards everywhere have been wearied by the cry of business­men— 'The boys you send us can't spell!'" 
Is that familiar? It sounds like something from today's newspaper or from a current magrazine. It happens to be taken from Warren Hicks' Champion Spelling Book, printed in 1909. 
"The children now love luxury; they have bad manners and contempt for authority; they show disrespect for elders and love chatter in place of exercise. Children are tyrants, not the servants of their household. They no longer rise when elders enter the room. They contradict their parents, chatter before company, gobble up dainties at the table, cross their legs and tyrannize their teachers." 
Socrates said that twenty-five centuries before TV. 
"Our earth is degenerated in these latter days, there are signs that the world is speedily coming to an end; bribery and corruption are common; children no longer obey their par­ents. ..." 
Those are chippings on an Assyrian Stone Tablet of 2800 B.C. 
HOW ABOUT DISCIPUtNE? • 
I do not know what parents blamed the shortcomings of the children on before the coming of TV. I suppose the wife said to the husband, "Look at the little monster — just like your family," and maybe he said, "I thought he took after you." Now both parents can point to the TV set and say, "That did it!" An electronic scapegoat is a convenient thing to have around the house. 
There is something to be said on both sides: for the few of us who give credit to TV and for the sizeable group that dis­credits it. Both sides can find things to point to in the findings of the study made by the Queensboro, Long Island, Public Library. The study shows that when TV is new in a community the circulation figures at the library go down like a toboggan. But when the novelty has worn off — it takes about two years 
— circulation figures begin to climb and in some instances surpass all previous circulation records. This circulation boom, some believe, comes about because television gives readers new interests. 
The problem that confronts children when faced with a tele­vision set is the same as that which confronts adults: How to use the thing within sense and reason? If someone asks me how to get children to use it properly I dodge the question by saying that the answer is filed imder D for discipline, and not under A for aesthetics. It may be difficult enough for parents to discipline themselves as far as TV is concerned without tak­ing on the burden of child discipline, too. But I just don't know an easier answer. 
Yon can read the critics, and follow the credits on the screen, and keep posted on what magazines predict will'be programs worth watching, but when all is said and done it is possible that somebody's educated guess went haywire and what you find on the screen is not .worth your time. At that point there is one simple rule to remember: the knob that turns on the set is the same one that turns it off. As Ernie Kovacs said, "Science has given us hands with which to turn off television sets." 
Forming a Film Study Group 

CiNEiiA study clubs are sprouting all over the country. Some­
times I get a letter asking for advice on how to start one. To 
anyone contemplating a cinema club I oifer six suggestions: 
1. Find a good teacher. 

Some people might hesitate to wire a house or perform an appendectomy without some training and yet not hesitate to hack away at a work of art despite a lack of background. That is why a club needs a teacher who knows film standards; otherwise well-intentioned people who know nothing about films might band together merely to applaud what is mediocre and never get around to developing good critical judgments. 
*. Read the critical reviews. 

People are more apt to check motion pictures than television prog^rams in advance. Motion pictures cost money and some people put more value on money than on time and so are prompted to do a little investigating for that reason if for no other. Still, a good nimiber buy tickets blindly. I will always remember that during the opening sequence of North by Northwest a. man sitting next to me said to his wife, "We saw 
'. this before. Might as well leave. If we had looked we'd a known." 
From a cross-section of critical writing you might check reviews in Tlie Saturday Review, The New Republic, Variety, FUm Quarterly, Sight and Sound, Films in Review, The New Statesman, The New York Times, The New York Herald TrUnoie, Time, Newsweek, Commonweal, Our Sunday Visi­tor, and Jubilee. 
A useful weekly publication is Filmfacts; it devotes all of its space to digests of reviews of current pictures. Another, The Green Sheet, is published monthly by the Film Estimates Board of National Organizations. . . . 
Hollywood turns out some drivel, but the foreign films can out-drivel Hollywood. The tendency is to recall Great Ex­pectations, Brief Encounter and Henry V, and to forget the driveL 
The foreign film deserved its place in the sun right after World War II. Only a few dozen pictures were sent over each year and they were the pick of the crop. Besides, foreign ~ producers seemed to be doing more sincere work then; they did-not have much money and their equipment left much to be desired. But when foreign films started flooding us it was clear that there are far more mediocrities among them than among American films. Hollywood turns out a higher per­centage of films of inerit. 
Not long ago I saw an Italian film as part of a film series that is supposed to offer the best of foreign pictures. Maybe the members of the committee who booked this picture thought it was artistic because the actors spoke in Italian. Had HoUy­wood'filmed the same script they would have come out saying, "What a horror!" 
Soon after that I saw a French film that made me think all the way through that I had come in somewhere in the middle. The story line was blurred and the characters were unbe­lievable. It was badly put together, as though a group of un­talented amateurs had tried their hands at film-making. This is the kind of criticism that can rarely be leveled at Holly­wood; even at its worst, Hollywood is usually professional. 
People enamored of foreign movies may have sat through that French film feeling they were seeing Great Art unfold be­fore their eyes. Again, maybe because the dialogue is in a foreign tongue. Maybe when they read such lines at the bottom of the screen as, "You were just a flea and I taught you how to livB^" and "You win a woman the way you win a war," they fod they are touching the hem of genius. 
Again the admonition: use the critics. Some foreign films in the past few years were worth the trans-Atlantic shipping costs and the critics would have led you to them — La Strada, The Green Man, Black Orplieus, iOO Blows, Wild Straw­berrie$, Ikiru, The Seventh Seal, The Cranes are Flying. 
-Let the critic sift out the great drifts of mediocrity for you. His job is to sift, and sift, and sift through the gray dust so that every so often he might shout and hold up a bright and duniag object Don't you bother doing all that sifting. Just 
.listen for the shout and then run toward the bright and shining 
object. 
S, Look at films that are -worth your time. 
. . . .-TV Movie Almanac, published in paperback by Ban­tam Books, will help you decide what pictures are worth sitting thiofag^ It gives a capsule review of 5,000 'films and rates 
them: four stars, excellent; three stars, good; two stars, fair; 
and one star, poor. Of the 5,000 films rated, the almanac gives 
four stars to 179. ' 
I remember^ with four-star pleasure inanyof the films listed in the almanac as four-star: Body and Soul, Boomerang, Brief Encounter, Citizen Kane, Encore, The Fallen Idol, The Fugi­tive, Great Expectations, Green Pastures, Hamlet, High Noon, La Strada, Ox Bow Incident, Quiet Man, Red River, The River, Stagecoach, The Third Man, Tight Little Island, The Time of Your Life, Treasure of the Sierra Madre. A cinema study club looking for something to show could do worse than to use that brief list of films. 
Another book every cinema club ought to own is Arthur Knight's, The Liveliest Art, a lively history of motion pictures. It was published by Macmillan in 1957 and has since been / issued in paperback in the New American Library series. In it there is an index to films discussed in the book with informa­tion about where each film may be rented. .. . 
i. Read some books about motion pictures. 
Next to a good ;teacher and some good critics, books are helpful guides. Books alone are not enough. As Clifton Fadi­man said, to be a successful parent it is not enough to read a book titled How to Be a Good Parent. A good parent is a per­son who is good, kind and wise, and books won't turn the trick. In the same way, the recognition of what is good in motion pictures and television grows from a cultivated milieu and not from, reading. But books might save a study club from dis­cussing films in glittering generalities while still ignorant of {^ the more mundane problems of technique. Books can help anchor observations; otherwise the club's discussions might go into orbit and just revolve in outer space. . . . 
5. Follow screen credits. 
People who know little about films are only interested in the names of actors and actresses. When the credits are crawling across the screen they use those moments to make last-minute comments to their neighbor. 
To give the film club members a start, here are the names of a few directors worth following: John Ford, John Huston, Vincente Minnelli, Elia Kazan, Delbert Mann, Geoi^e Stevens, Fred Zinnemann, William Wyler, Alfred Hitchcock, Carol Beed, David Lean, Ingmar Bergman, Akira Kurosawa, Frederico Fellini, Vittorio DeSica, Bene Clair, Jean Eenoir, ^ 
6. Try your hand at writing reviews. 
Each member of the club ought to express his thoughts on each film in about a 300-word written review. There is nothing like writing to develop mental discipline and definite critical observation. Writing discourages half-thoughts and half-opinions. 
In the beginning everyone will find it difficult to review a picture having seen it but once. That will be especially true if the club is studying film technique; such a study sensitizes everyone to so many things that it is frustrating to try to grab everything at once. . . , 
Bibliography 1 

HERE are some books worth the attention of anyone who wants to develop some ^capacity for motion picture criticism. The Liveliest Art by Arthur Knight (Macmillan, 1957; paperback. New American Library, 1959) Case History of a Movie by Dore Schary (Bandom House, 1950) , ^ 
Picture by Lillian Boss (Binehart, 1952) 
To See the Dream by Jessamyn West (Harcourt, Brace, 1957) . _ Screen Playwritihg hy Lewis Herman (World, 1952) The World of Robert Flaherty by Eichard Griffith (Duell, Sloan and Pearce, 1953) 
The Image Industries by William F. Lynch, SJT. (Sheed & Ward, 1959) 
Criticism and Censorship by Walter Kerr (Bruce, 1954) ] 
How to Shoot a Movie Story by David A. Englander and Arthur L. Gaskill (Morgan & Morgan, 1959) 
Film aa Art hy Bndolf Amheim (University of California Press, 1957) , 
The Art of the Film by Ernest Lindgrren (Allen & Unwin, 1948) 
The Lion's Sharehy Bosley Crowther (Dutton, 1957) 
Documentary and Experimental Films (Museum of Modem Art Fihn Library, 1959) f 
and associate professor of English at Notre Dune before he began practicing law in Detroit. Sur­
y Wvors include his father, two sisters and four brothers. 
JOHN G. BYRNE, '23, co^wncr and president of Wallens-Bymc Packing Corp. ol BuiTalo, New York, died June 27, 1962. He was a former lineman on the Four Horsemen football team and a past president of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo. He Is survived by his wife, a daughter and a son. 
MAURICE J. DACY, '23, of Chicago, Illinois, died July 21, 1962, according to information re­ceived in the Alumni Office. No sumvors. 
RICHARD P. O'CONNOR, '23, of Los Angeles. CaHfornra. died June 4, 1962, according to word received in the Alumni Office. His wife sur^'ives. JA.MES C. VIGNOS, '23, vice president in charge  of sales of the Ohio Ferro-Alloys Corp. of Canton, ' Ohio, died July 12, 1962. Sur\-ivors include his 
wife, a daui;I)tcr and two brothers. 
REV. GEORGE J. BALDWIN, C.S.C., '24, died at Notre Dame, Indiana, according to information received in the Ahimni Office. 
BROTHER GREGORY R02CZNIALSKI, CS.C, '24, '32, of St. Edward's Uni\"crsity, .Austin, Texas, died July 28, 1962. A brother sur\ives. 
HOWARD J. WALSH, '24, of Summit, New Jersey, died June 25, 1962, according to word received from Ills wife. 
BROTHER BRUNO P. KLUSEWITZ, C.S.C., '25, '34. a teacher at Cathedral High School, In­dianapolis, Ind., died June 15, 1962. A sister sur­vives. 
ANDREW F. CONLIN, '26, of Itasca, Illinois, 

' died July II, 1962. Mr. Conlin was executive vice president of the Crcrar Clinch Coal Co., and a former president of the Chicago Coal Merchants Assn. Surviving are his widow, and a daughter. 
AL W. JOHANNES, '26, of Cleveland, Wisconsin, died June 8, 1962, according to information re­ceived in the Alumni Office. He is sur\'ived by his wife, a son and a daughter. 
ELTON E. RICHTER, '26, a retired Notre Dame law professor, died June 9, 1962, In LaPorte, Indiana. His wife sur\"ives. 
JAMES W. COLEMAN, '27, Nonvich. N.Y. city attorney, died July 7, 1962. He is sur\-ived by his wife. 
LAU-RENCE G. GRODtS, '27, a state unem­ployment office inter\*icwer, was killed in an auto­mobile accident June 28, 1962. He Is 5ur\ived by his father and a brother. 
HON. AULCOLM K. HATFIELD, '27, '29, of St. Joseph, .\fichigan, died May 22, 1962, according lo %\ord received from his wife. Judge Hatfield was listed in \'arious professional directories and the Reader's Digest also carried an article on him. He is also sur\'ived by a son and daughter. 
ANTHONY J. JORDAN, '27, of South Bend, Indiana, died June 5, 1962. Sur\'ivors include a son, daughter, and .sister. 
RICHARD K. LLOYD, '27, of Babylon, New York, died in July, 1962, according to word re­ceived in the Alumni Office. No details. 
JAMES E. VAUGHAN, '27, of Lafayette, In­diana, died February- 3, 1962, according to word received in the Alumni Office. No details. 
HENRY HASLEY, '28, master of the FourtU Degree Northern Indiana District of the Knights of Columbus, died August 17, 1962, in Fort Wayne, Indiana. Sur\'ivors include his widow, a son, two daughters, a brother and four sisters. 
JOHN T. JACKSON, '28, o( Coldwatcr, Midil­

;an, died February 24, 1961, according to mall re­
:urncd to the .Alumni Office. His wife sur\'ives. 
REYNOLD A. DENIGER, '29, president of the li^anners Seed Corp. and the Farmers State Bank if Beaver Dam, IV'isconsin, died June 15, 1962. lurvivors include his wife, two sons, and a daughter. 
REV. NORBERT McGOWAN, O.S.B., '29, died n Richmond, Virginia, according to mall returned 
o the Alumni Office. No details. REV. REGIS H. RITER, C.S.C., '29, '36, of loly Cross House, Notre Dame, Indiana, died uly 17, 1962. He had taught at St. Edward's Inivcrsity, Austin, Texas, Portland University, ortland, Oregon, King's College, WIlkes-Barre, a., and the University of Notre Dame. REV. NORBERT SPITZMESSER, O^.B., '29, 
led In Aurora, Illinois, according to mail returned > the Alumni Office. No details. JOHN H. HUMPHREYS, '32, of Denver, Colora-
I, died June 15, 1962. He was an insurance agent r the Travelers Insurance Co. and active in the emocratic Party, He is sunrived by his \vifc, two lughters and three sons. 
THOMAS E. MEADE, '32. of Vancouver, Wash­;ton, flied May 17, 1957, according to informa­n rccci\-td in the Alumni Office. 
JACKSON T. CANDOUR, '33, of SistersvUle, 

West Virginia, died June 7, 1962, according to 
word received In the Alumni Office. His wife 

survives. 
JOHN B. KIELY, '33, of Merrick, L.I., New 

York, died in 1958, according to word received from 
his ^vife. 
EDWARD P. aARR, '3J, died In South Bend, 

Indiana, according to word received from his wife. 
DR. JAMES W, MACDONALD, '35, died in 

Pittsburgh, Pa., according to mail returned to the 
.Alumni Office. No details. 
W1LLIA.M G. PAGE, '36, died in Flossmoor, 

Illinois, according to mail returned to the Alumni 
Office. No details. 
LEO R. BOYLE, '38, '41, of Munstcr, Indiana, 

died May 20, 1962, according to information re­
ceived in the .Alumni Office. 
HERBERT C. FAIRALL, JR., *39, of Denver, 

Colorado, died April 7, 1962, according to word 
received in the Alumni Office. 
JOHN J. REDDY, '40, of Stamford, Conn., died April 12, 1962, according to word received In the Alumni Office. 
DR. JA.\fES E. BRESETTE, '43, a Kansas City, Kansas, opthalmologist, died July 2, 1962. He is sur\'ived by his wife, a son, four daughters, and his parents. 
NEIL H. GREEN, '43. chid special agent (or the National Board of Fire Undenvrlters, died June 21, 1962. Surviving arc his wife, two daughters, one brother and four sisters. 
DONALD W. McMANUS, '50, president of the T«*Iii City Realty Corp., died in MIshawaka, Ind., August 17, 1962. He is survived by his wife, three sons, three daughters, his parents, a brother, and three sisters. 
LT. PHILIP R. McHUGH, '55, naral aviator, of Jacksonwilc, Fla., u-as killed July 23, 1962, in a na\-y radar patrol plane crash. Survivors include his wife, a daughter and son, his mother and three brothers. 
RICHARD W. KELLER, '56, of Tucson, Arizona, died April 8, 1962. A Monogram winner at Notre Dame, Mr. Keller is surxivcd by his wife and four children. 
STEPHEN D. BAKER, '58, of Columbus, Ohio, died May 26, 1962, according to word received from his wife. 
50-YEAR CLUB 

There Is little to report this Issue beyond the sad news contained in the obituaries above. Leading the list is COL. FRANK FEHR, '93, of Louisville, Ky., a lineman on Notre Dame's first intercolle­giate football team in 1887. His widow wrote: "Thank you and the Notre Dame Alumni Asso­ciation for the kind and s)-mpathetlc expressions received in meinor>* of my beloved husband. . . . 
The spirit oi Notre Dame, alwsys a great un of strength to the Colonel, was a Hvliis and v force In his life. Our Lady did not fail him life and .. . In the happy repose of his so You know then, as I share la the conviction tl Notre Dame's spirit is more than temporal, tl it will continue to be a great source of strcnj for me. This is the only connection which coi possibly lighten the burden of grief whjfih s itself upon me In these circumstances. ... " 1 know Col Fehr's many friends and admirers u continue to remember him and his wife Mil 
Just one more note. In the last issue we ga the name of 3 loommate ol PAUL MARTE DILLON, '09, as "Denny Hayes." It was Deni Morrison—DENIS A. MORRISON, JR., of Fc Madison, Iowa. Like ART HAYES, '15, he w a top'Uotch fiction WTiter. He made writing I: profession as a newspaperman, magazine cdito movie writer, etc., and now heads his own pul lidty bureau In Los Angeles. Apparently evcryboc had "Hayes" on the brain. DANNY HILGAR1 NER (see the I9I7 column) recalled that Hay (not ^Iorrison) sold considerable fiction to the Ch cago Record-Herald magazine. 
1912 
B. J. Iten" Kaiier 604 East Tenth St. Berwick, Pa. 

1912 GOLDEN JUBILEE CLASS REUMO.V — Junr 8, 9, 10, 1962 
REUNION REGISTRANTS: WALTER DUN­CAN, BEN KAISER, JAY LEE, JOHN McCAGUE, £. H7LLET BRUCE, U1LLLLM HOtTZ, FRED MEIFELD. 
The above seven of the 44 known liWng Members of the Class of 1912 (18 Four-Year and Law — 5 Short Mechanical and Pharmacv-—• 21 Elected) par­ticipated in the three-day festi\'ities prepared for ns so generously by the University. In addition to the above, JAMES W. O'HARA, LL.B of the Class of 1913, was a guest at the Friday dinner meeting and JLM ARMSTRONG, our old faithful Alumni Secre­tary, was our M.C. throughout the entire meeting which lasted from 6:00 to 11:00 PM. Tie subject of the discussion was varied but revolved primarily about Notre Dame*s past, present and future. 
There is no better way to get the Sacts behind the facts than to be exposed for five long hours to one 
CLASS OF 1917 reunlonists not appearing In last issne's groop picture may be found a these "candids" taken at the home of B. J. VoIL At right are (standiiv, L-r.) Bemie VoO, Sherwood Dixon ('20), Fred Mahaffey, John Cassidy, Joe Flynn (fon^ioimd) Walter McCourt ('16) and Bill Kennedy. At left, Ray (Red) Graham (foRgrooad) is flanked by Kennedy, Mahaffey, Cassidy, Flynn, and Harry Scott. Seated aromid the comer is Horseman Don Miller, '25. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 
who has been behind tlio scenes and often in front for over 35 years. We all enjoyed the conversations immensely and, I am sure, understand the work­ings, the aims and aspirations of our University much better for it. 
During the past sl\ months, in an cfTort to bring you to your LAST CLASS REUNIOX, I have given you many interesting statistics concern­ing the Class membership, so I will not burden you with more of the same except to list the eleven members who left ws for their eternal reward since our last (45th) rcnnion in 1957: ROBERT McGILL, 1957 — EDMOND H. SAVORD, 1957 — FER­NANDEZ L. MENDEZ, 1957 — LEO CONDON, 1958 — JOSEPH F. DONOHUE, 1958 — EDWARD WEEKS, 1958 — THO.M.AS A. J. DOCKWEILER, 1959 — DONALD M. HAMILTON, 1959 — DON­NELLY P. MCDONALD, I961 — MICHAEL FAS­NING, 1962 — FRED BOUCHER, 1962. 
.A Mass was said on Saturday. June 9, in the .Alumni Hall Chapel by FATHER MIKE MUL­CAIRE for the above as well as for the other 47 members of the Class who have S""*: ^o ^•'"r eternal rest since the Class graduation. 
In my almost continuous correspondence with you for thc'six months prior to the Great Event I have received many interesting letters from many of you u-hich were read by me at the Friday meeting. Space allotted to me in the Alumnus prevents me from publishing same, however I will indulge the generosity- of the Editor to publish just one from our only living Mexican Classmate MIGUEL GURZA. 
Miguel writes: "Dear Friends: You can imagine the pleasure I would have to be at the Golden Jubilee Reunion of the Class of 1912, but I am ad­\-anced far in years (73) and 1 don't feel good for a long trip. . . . 
"Four years after I left .Mma Mater I got mar­
ried, and God gave me three girls .. . by this time all are married, giving to me 6 grandsons and four granddaughters. 
•'For 20 years I was working in a mill factory* of my own, but haWng some troubles with laborers, I preferred to sell it. Then I got a ranch where I go ever>' day to spend my time watcliing and doing the work I can do. 
*'Four years ago I took a very fine trip in that Great Country, dri\*ing my car; beautiful Iiighways. I stopped in New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco. Colorado, Dallas, San .Antonio, New Orleans; 38 days of good time. 
".And as I can't be witli you at the reunion of June 8, 9 and 10, hoping that God blessed all of vou; and remembering the happv davs of Sorin Hall ivitli REV. >\'ALTER L.AVIX and REV. JOSEPH BURKE, Prefect of Discipline: the football games with Rockne, Philbrook, Kelly, Dorais; military with CAPT. STOGSDALL; and as far as I remember, the happiest daj-s of my life."' 
(Should anyone be interested in the other letters read at the Friday meeting I will be glad to send you copies of same. Just write and ask for them.) 
I have been your Class Sccrctar>' for the past 31 years and during that long period of time have re­ceived full and expert assistance from the Alumni Oflicc and particulatly from Jim .\mistrong and John Laughlin in organizing the several Class Re­unions. TIic University has been most generous in providing its facilities and services at a low, low nominal expense to the Class members. 
For all of this wc express our sincere apprecia­tion and hope to repay its generosity by our fullest participation in its .Annual Alumni Funds. 
And now your Sccrclarv- bids you, my good and true Classmates, a fond adieu. Thanks for evcr>*­thing. I shall be glad to hear from you at any time and should I come by some interesting news about your Classmates, I will share it with you one and all. 
I hope you will enjoy and value your membership in the 50 YEAR CLUB, of whicli you are now mem­bers, and take full ad\"antage of your pririlcges. 
From the .Alumni OfRce: The 50-Year Club folder being bare this time, we hope his classmates will heed the advice of retiring Secretary BEN KAISER and keep in touch either through him or the Alumni Ofiice, sharing their experiences in the Semicentcnar>' column. Perhaps 
B.J. can be persuaded to release a fciv more high lights of his reunion correspondence for the informa­tion of absent classmates and those of adjacent classes. An interesting postscript is provided by REV. CORNELIUS HAGERTY, C.S.C., who missed see-
JOHN F. HYNES, '14 Magnificent Record, Mutual Regrets 
Retirement of John Felix Hyncs as chair­man of the board of Employers Mutual Casualty Co. was announced at the com­pany's annual meeting in the spring. A veteran of 44 years i.vith Employers Mutual, Mr. Hynes retires with the longest service record of any employee in the 51-year-old company. He was re-elected a director and named honorar>' chairman of the board. 
Mr. Hynes has been board chairman since 1957 and ser\*ed the company as president from 1947 until then. A director since 1925, he has never missed a board meeting. 
Bom in Aver>', Iowa, he attended St. Ambrose Academy in Davenport, Iowa, be­fore training in business and law at Notre Dame. He joined Employers Mutual as a claims adjuster and attorney in 1918 after three years of pri\*atc law practice. 
Promoted to secretary* in 1920, he di­rected the claim department and super­vised the accounting department for 20 years. He was vice-president from 1940 until 1947. 
Mr. Hynes has ser\ed as president of the Conference of Mutual Casualty Companies, is a Rotarian, and has been active in state and national bar associations. He is a mem­ber of the board of directors of Bankers Trust Co., Des Moines, and a trustee of St. .-Vmbrose College. 
He lives at 4927 Grand .-Vve. in Des Moines. 
ing JAY L. "BIFFY** LEE during the reunion, wrote to him in Maple City, Mich., that "you were the fellow I \\'anted to see most. .. . I don*t sup­pose I taught you anytliing that influenced your life.'* Biffy wrote back immediately, describing his unsuccessful attempts to reacli Father Hagerty at Holy Cross House on St. Joseph Lake and insisting that he "listened and was influenced** by the yotmg priest who was just a year older than he. 
1915 
James E. Sanford 
1429W.FarragntAv. Chicago 40, niinoii 
"F.ATHER MATT" 

The time is June 9, 1962, the place Notre Dame. 
REV. .MATTHEW J. WALSH, C.S.C., President 
of the University from 1922 to 1928, lies ill. Tlie g 
stah\*art body that carried him from the Vice­
President's chair to the battlefields of France is 
going the way of all flesh, but that indomitable 
spirit still carries on as it did from his first day at 
Xotrc Dame. 
Since he was too weak to greet the hundreds of 
his former students and those of later generations 
on the campus who call him friend and counselor, 
his beloved friends Fathers TOM IRVING and LOU 
THORN*TON arranged for two of his old students 
and comrades of the .A.E.F. to see him for a few 
brief moments as a token of the desire of the many 
men on the campus to greet him, and of his deep 
desire to shake the hands and share ccperiences as 
he has done through the years as Notre Dame's his­
torian and matchless raconteur. ^ 
One of the two alumni who was so privileged ^ 
could not be present due to illness in his family. 
These are the impressions of the one who did sec 
him and who feels that he owes a debt that could 
never be paid adequately unless he conveys this 
message to the Notre Dame family all over the 
world. Tlic words are halting and inadequate, but 
the heart is there. 
Memories fashioned through a half century crowd the mind of the pilgrim as he kneels to receive God's blessing, through His ser\'ant, for himself, his fam­ily and all the men and women and cliildren of Notre Dame — the buddies, long gone, who marched in the .A.E.F. and received this blessing to bring peace to their final moments on earth and to the one in particular, now deceased, who re­ceived his diploma from this teacher, priest-confessor and Vice-President as thc\' trod the diLsiy ^ army trails with the First Division. w 
Shadowy hgures crowded the room, among them REV. THOMAS E. WALSH, C.S.C., the President of Notre Dame ivhen young Matthew Walsh came t" Notre Dame from St. Columbkillc*s school in Chi­cago. 
Night is now approaching and once more the 
men of N.D, gather — those of '17, '37 and '57 and 
the other reunion classes. 
Tlicy hear FATHER HESBURGH, now leading Notre Dame to new heights, pay sincere, eloquent tribute to this humble man — his illustrious predeces­sor. "One man is finishing — another is going on to the finish." . . . "Turning things of dross to gold." . . . "Molding men to greatness." Surely wc of the ^_ older classes who know Father Walsh understand ^ P these words now more than ever. The Sunday hour grows late and the thousands who have returned to walk again the paths they knew in their young manhood leave reluctantly the old but ever new campus lo take up once again the burdens they have set aside for a few days, while old friendships are renewed and spirits refreshed. 
Yes, they leave reluctantly these men who once heard the \-oiccs of ROCKNE, the MILLERS, of the PRESIDENTS CWANAUGH and others who car­ried the fame of Notre Dame to the halls of learn­ing, to the athletic fields, to the political arena, to the marts of commerce. Yes and to the two battle­fields of the '40's and '50*s where Notre Dame chaplains followed them as the Corbys and the Walshes did in '61 and '18. With sadness they leave behind in the shadow of Our Lady of the Golden Dome the weakened body of their beloved Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., but they carr>- ever ^ with them through time and eternity the indelible ^ P mark and unique spirit that distinguishes the Notre Dame man. They leave behind for unborn genera­tions to share that which no writer has been able to express adequately. 
Is it because Notre Dame possesses, today as it has always possessed, the power, the deep inner spiritual quality that acts on and stimulates in its own way each individual personality coming to her campus? The athlete who *'pla)*5 over his head" and the students and alumni who *'livc over their heads**? ^ 
I'll leai'c this riddle to future generations. Is it ^ P 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 
really such a riddle to those with C.S.C. after their names? 

( 
Father Walsh, we your friends and admirers, your old students, your fellow soldiers of World War I now in the ever-present Church Militant ask your prayers and beg to receive again and again your blessing "that we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ." 
One of Notre Dame's daughters, an Immaculate Heart of Mary sister, who wore the uniform of God and "whose monogram was on her heart'' wrote thus before her death: 
"Eadi shadow frights me But I can %*-aich earth's lights grow dim If through the darkness my soul discerns One ray from Him.** 

' REUNION OBSERVATIONS In re BERNARD VOLL's 1917 party, your secre­tary reports that he was received with open arms by his host B.V. and all the men of '17. Tlic party was a huge success, and we all forgot the years. B.V.'s report on the reunion, condensed a few inches from here, was great reading. Congratulations again, Bernie. The Class of '15 herewith invites all the men of '17 to join them in 1965 for their Golden Anni­versar>-. 
From the Alumni OfBcc: .ALBERT KUHLE wrote to acknowledge the wishes of many friends on his retirement as regional director of the Social Security Administration In I Chicago and the tributes printed last Issue from his friends in the department, the Chicago Tribune, Congressman Roman Pucinski and the Congressional Record, **Among the many blessings it has been my good fortune to enjoy is the opportunity I have had to Icarn to know and work with so many really fine people in a great common tause. The years I spent in Social Security- climaxed all I had hoped to at­tain, so I am leaving the work without any regrets save severing the association with so many wonder­ful folks." Mrs. Kate Galvin Hudson died in Memphis, Tenn., August 4 at the age of 89. She was the mother of GALVIN HUDSON, who died in 1953 after devoted service to the University as a bene­factor and director of the .Miimnl Association. 
1917 
Edward J. McOskcr 
525 N. Melrose Ave. 
Elgin, lUinois 

Here Is a report by BERNIE VOLL that pretty Well covers reunion activity: 
^ *'The total number to whom we sent Invitations was 100. The total number of responses was 76. The total attendance of the members was 36. The total attendance was 50. including guests. "JOHN GARRY from Port Neches, Texas; BILL GR^XDY from Carrollton, Texas; JOHN MILLER from California; and JOHN RILEY from Port­land, Maine, ver>' likely represent those who came the longest distance. However, my memorv- is not good. "This ought to set some kind of a record for alumni returning for their 45th anniversary'. "We were most fortunate in having FATHER MULCAIRE say a Mass at 9 o'clock Saturday morning in the Chapel of Alumni Hall for the de­ceased members of our class. "On Sunday morning at 10 o'clock, he said his own anniversary Mass which represented the 40th year of Iiis ordination to the priesthood. An inler­esting bit of news which surprised all of us is the ^fact that there were six priests ordained in that class, namely, REV. FR^VNCIS A. BROWN, C.S.C., REV. MICHAEL J. EARLY, C.S.C., REV. WIL­LIAM J. LYONS, C.S.C., REV. WILLIAM MICHAEL McNAMAR^\, C.S.C, REV. MICHAEL 
A. MULCAIRE, C.S.C., and REV. M. SIMON REYNOLDS, formerly C.S.C., who Is now a Trap­plst. This is the only class who have been ordained ten years or more, in which not a single death has tjcctirrcd. 
"HARRY BAUJAN was voted the youngest ^looking man in the entire group. I am confident all Wot us would like to know Harr>-'s secret. 
FRANCIS A. MEKUS, '26 
For Past Fiscal Year, a Busy Banker 

.As a new fiscal year began on July I, Francis Mckus finished his term as president of the Ohio Bankers .Association. Elected 
O.B.A. president at the 70th annual con­vention in Columbus' Deshler-Hilton last year, he ser\'ed a double presidency. Now he can give full time to his principal job as president of the 75-year-old Croghan Co­lonial Bank in Fremont, Ohio. 
With a Ph.B. in Foreign Commerce Fran­cis Albert Mekus went into banking in Ohio after graduation, but the days of prosperity in banking were numbered. Within a few years he was employed by the State Banking Department in Toledo as a special agent, with the job of liquidating hundreds of banks closed by the Depression. Fran's faith in the future of his profession remained firm, however, and soon he was back in the operating end of a resurgent banking business, rising to the presidency of Croghan Colonial. 
Living and working in several Ohio cities, Fran was active in the Knights of Co­lumbus and the Lions Club. He ser\'ed two terms as Grand Knight of the K. of-C. Council and a year as president of the Lions Club in Defiance, O. It \vns also in De­fiance that he married Lilian Bronson. 
Fran Mekus has a considerable Irish heri­tage. Two brothers attended Notre Dame, and a sister attended St. Mary's across the highway. 
**An interesting fact — the bartender informed me that half of the group drank ginger ale, and the evening ended and evcrjbody was gone by 11:30. This would seem to be conclusive that the men of '17 arc slowly succumbing to the inevitable. 
"One last thought (Inspired by Father Hesburgh's talk at the banquet) — Father Sorin built a school in the wilderness one Iiundred twenty years ago and called it a University. This University was dedicated to Our Lady of the Lake, unhampered by any dimensions. 
'"Generation after generation of priests, brothers. 

and laymen have contributed their lives to make th 
University of Our Lady what it is today. 
"In Father Hesburgh wc have a superb leader ­an excellent administrative group and faculty. lil all who have preceded them, they are dreanuD dreams without dimensions. Some of these dream can become realities only with the help of all of t who attended the University and who are the bene ficiaries of the greatness which it enjoys tf>day. 
"In order to continue to impress the Ford Foun dation, it is of great significance that wherevc humanly possible, a contribution to the Foundation be made by each of us. 
''If you can make a large one, it will be wonder ful. If you can make a small one, it will be effectivi because the hope Is for 73% of our alumni to b< listed as contributors. 
"If you are not already on that list at the prescn time, won't you send a check — no matter hov small or how large — to the University of Notrt Dame Endowment Fund, Notre Dame, Indiana, anc be counted among those who arc supporting one oi the greatest projects for %vhich this University ha; ever committed itself — namely, the Library. 
"In addition, it would be my hope that each ol us will constitute himself a committee of one to try to get four or five other alumni to do the same thing. In this way %ve will help Father Hesburgh, the administration and faculty achieve this goal. 
''It was our pleasure to entertain once again the Class of I9I7. I hope, for each of us, it may be a part of the Divine Plan that we shaJl meet again in 1967." 
Memo from DANNY HILGARTNER: "Former students during 1914, '15, '16, '17 and '18 who left the University in good standing, are invited to join the famous class of 1917. Member­ship applications may be obtained by writing to the General Chairman of the Membership Com­mittee, BERN.ARD J. VOLL, 206 East Tutt St., South Bend 23, Indiana. .And if you were canned and have since become a millionaire who is willing to share the wealth with our Alma Mater, "ex­ceptional circumstances' may be arranged to waive the *in good standing' clause by one of our attor­neys, such as JACK CASSIDY, former .Attorney General of Illinois, or OSCAR DORWIN, General Counsel of the Texaco Corp. Special Junior mem­berships are a\-ailablc at $100.00 each to grand­sons of class members, who are enrolled to attend the Uni\-ersity. All fees will be contributed to the Foundation fund. Have you made your contribu­tion? We would like to be the first class to have 100 per cent representation," 
DAN and DUKE RILEY swear they saw some seminarians throw one of their classmates in the lake when they were making their traditional walk around, but they were afraid to stop and ask the reason for the dousing because they might have been answered, "You arc next.'* 
The only thing I believe might be added Is that entertainment was provided at the Friday night affair by those well-known performers of the Qass 
— J. PAUL FOGARTY, HARRY SCOTT. JOHN "DUKE" RILEY and GEORGE KOWALSKI. 
I enjoyed the reunion very much, even though wc old boys of '17 were "toned down" a lot. 
1918 
Cbarles W. CaU 225 Patentm AT& Hasbroack Hc^ts, New Jersey 

Classmates of I9I8: Four decades and a half do not seem so lengthy after they arc behind you. Our rather small war­time Class of 1918 will gather in June, 1963, for our regular five-year retmion. If you have never been to a reunion you do not know what you have missed. In the nature of things, and perhaps we shouldn't say it, you may not have too many more opportunities. If you can make it you won't have to play golf if you do not wish to, or block a tackle, or run a mile; all you'll be expected to do will be shoot the breeze, tell about your grandchildren, if you like, or relate how 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 31 
you wowed them \vhcn you vvcre big man on tlie campus. 
The University puts on a pleasant and not too exhaustive program lor senior citizens. No doubt many have retired and now can take time more casUy than when they were pounding av%'ay making a liwng. An>i*ay it's time to think, time to plan. Won*t you write to one of us and say wc may have the extreme pleasure of greeting you under such pleasant circumstances? 
John A. Lcnimer, Prcs., 
901 Lake Shore Drive, 
Escanaba, Midi. 
Chas. "W. Call, Secretary, 
225 Paterson Ave., 
Hasbrouck Heights, N.J. 
SISTER REGINA MARY, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. JAMES WALLACE, of S>Tacuse, N.Y., recent­ly made her perpetual vou3 as a Sister of Provi­dentx, at the Church of the Immaculate Conception, Saint Mary-of-thc-WoodS) Indiana. The good nun is a teacher at St. Patrick's School, Indianapolis, Ind. She is the daughter of classmate JIM WAL­LACE. 
From the Alumni Office: Prayers of the class arc requested tor alleviating the continuing illness of JOHN LEMMER*S wife-Secretary CHARLES CALL spent most of the sum­mer on a Grand Jury, but got excused during July to get in a brief trip to Iceland and Scotland. 
1922 
G. A. "Kid" Ashe 175 Landing Rd. No. Rochester 25, N. Y. 
40th Anniversary Reunion echoes: We arc de­lighted to report that our reunion \vas a fine suc­cess from every standpoint except the weather, which was a bit loo fluid, but that too was a blessing in disguise for it knit us more closely for indoor discussion and argumentation. However, there was not mudi ol the latter lor we oJ *22 have always had great respect for the opinions of our buddies. Tlic ordiids go to our Class presi­dent, J. RALPH CORYN. and to FRED DRESSEL, South Bend chairman, and his ver>' capable assis­tants: A. HAROLD AVTBER, PAUL SCHAV'ERT­LEY, RANGY MILES and all the members of the South Bend diaptcr \vho are in tlic habit of putting '22 affairs over in a big way. The record shows 56 attended the reunion. Some areas like St. Louis and Detroit showed almost perfect attendance records. BUCK SHAW, JIM Mca-\BE and AL SCOTT from tlic West Coast made the longest journey's to attend. 
Memorial Mass for our deceased Class mtmbers was celebrated by a dassmate, FATHER SIGIS­MUND A. J.\NKOWSKI, C.S.C., of South Bend. PAUL SCH\VERTLEY promised our Chancel­lor of the Exdicquer and director of the '22 Memorial Mass Fund, DR. MATT \VEIS, a tidy sum from the receipts of the Morris Inn con­clave for lurtberance ol his splendid work Cor our beloved deceased. Letters were read from tliosc afflicted with illness, such as D.\XNY COUGH­LIN, CHARLIE CROAVLEY and RICARD Mc-CARTY, who could not attend; also, from FATHER GEORGE FISCHER, CS.C , whose, ecclesiastical duties had Iiim in Rodiester, N.Y. on a retreat for the religious of tliat diocese, and from EDDIE GOTTRY, anchored by business in New York. Wc s>Tnpathizc with those who could not attend for reasons of health, and for other good reasons — we did miss you and all others who did not show. 
Wc extend our deep s\'mpathy to MORG.AN SHEEDY of Pittsburgh on the death of his bc­Io\'ed mother (Estellc Brennan Sheedy) who was called to her reward May 24. Father Hesburgh and other Holy Cross priests attended the funeral 3hlass. Please do remember Morgan's mother in your praiycrs. 
Here is a note from PETE CHAMPION written in late February: "Agnes (Dutch) and I are Bvw linng ia a 'cold water flat.' Bill, our last son, was graduated from N.D. in 1961. .Mtcr com­pleting his ^ months with the Army, he returned 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 
PITTSBURGH — "Renaissance City" Club leaders met the Campus Club president at the annual stmuner dance at the South Hills Country Club: (from left) Donald W. Bebenek, '52, new alumni president; Jack Walsh, president of the N.D. student Pittsburgh Club; and Peter Flaherty, '31, retiring after a two-year term as alimmi president of the thriting Pittsburgh system. 
to Cleveland and was married in January. Pete, Jr., a I960 grad, was married one year ago. Wc are expecting our eleventh granddiild momentarily. Dave, a '45 grad, has five children. Our daughter. Patsy, also has five children." Pete, wc arc pleased to advise, w-as on deck for our reunion and despite all the stress of bringing up all the children and granddiildren is still in ver>- fine fettle physically, as all who saw him can attest. 
JOHN PAUL CULLEN'S son Peter is starting his sophomore year at N.D. in September. John Paul and RANGY MILES had a ver>* brisk baseball workout at our reunion in the rain with baseball gear JP lugged all the way from home. The old boys still liad plenty of rip and fire. 
FRANK OTT of 559 E. Providencia, Burbanfc, Calif., writes: "This is the day and this is tlie hour when our Class of '22 is celebrating the return to the campus in reunion after 40 years. I fed I am thtrc with you, and can tell you your messages urging my return did not go unheeded. You have been a grand shepherd of our flock, and I did leave California on .April 26 w*ith the intention of being at the reunion. In Ohio Mrs. Ott and I got word that made it necessary to return to the West Coast sooner than planned, so my reunion on the campus was Memorial Day — just in time to see the scats erected for Commencement Exer­cises, June 3. It was rewarding to u*alk the old paths and see the boys sitting on Sorin pordi with feet on rail, just like in our day. Old Sorin stands there defiant of time, although Amen Camcr may have long passed. Tlic new halls and buildings are grand and glorious, but old Sorin is still tlie heart of the campus.• And so, while I am back in Cali­fornia, I join in the Class festivities at this moment in spirit, at least, and promise to be more respon­sive to your mailings. I shall be anxious to sec the reunion report and all other news you so faith­fully supply to the ALUMNUS. Tlie blessings of Notre Dame du Lac be upon you." 
FRANK W. (MONTREAL) CONNELLY of the Pacific National Fir« Insurance Co. who has been in the San Frandsco Bay area for some years was transferred to Los .Angeles in June. His present business address Is 7H W. Olympia Blvd., Los Angdes. 
At a business session during our reunion on Fri­day night, the Class re-dected the entire list of Class officen, who had been serving since our 33th Reunion. They arc the following: President, J. R. CORYN; Vice-President-^:ast, VINCENT J. HAN­RAHAN; Mid West. CHESTER A. WYNNE; South, FRANK B. BLOEMER, JR.; Far West, EUGENE 

M. KENNEDY; Treasurer and Director of the '22 Memorial Mass Fund, DR. MATT W. WEIS; fi SecreUry, GERALD "KID'» ASHE. 
Here we record two weddings involving families of our Classmates, and we extend best wishes to the newlyweds and rejoice with them and their parents: Vincent Brooks Hanrahan, son of the VINCENT HANRAHANS of Silver Spring, Md., was joined in wedlock to Judith Anne Hutchison at St. Michael's Church, Silver Spring, on July 7. 
Miss Alice Ann Dixon, daughter of the JEROME F, DIXONS of Evanslon, III., u'as married to Joseph Carson Fenner at St. Marv*'s Church, EvanstoD, on July 14. 
^ 1
1923 
Louis V. BruggncT 2163 Riverside Dr. South Bend, Indiana 

No one pretends that when a man is in his lower-sixties, he necessarily has one foot in the grave. But whereas a dass secretary in early years ^vas buoyed up by reports that Pete w*as elected to A such-and-such, that Joe has just become president of Bigwhed, Inc., and that in general the boys one kne^v in sdiool have made good in life, now after almost 40 years in various careers, it saddens this secretary to chronidc mostly that Pete and Joe and George have died, and that beyond the obituary column "no news is good news." 
This, then, is our necrology' .. . no more. MAURICE J, DACY, president of our class in our senior year, w*as found dead in his hotel room in Minneapolis Saturday morning, July 21, of natural causes. The ofTidal report has not reached this secretariat at press time, but heart failure is believed to be the immediate cause. Mauric was bereaved of his wife almost exactly seven months ago, and they had no children. Following his wife's deatli he had travdled somewhat, visiting A cousins in Texas and a sister-in-law in California," coming home by way of the Seattle World*s Fair and Minneapolis. Burial w*as in Chicago July 25, with dassmatcs JOHN NORTON and LEO RIED­ER being among the pallbearers. Short weeks before his death, he had lundi with me and LEO RIEDER, his attorney. In South Bend. 
JOHN G. BYRNE, co-o^raer and president of Wallens-Bymc Packing Corporation, and of related u*ardiouse companies, all of Buffalo, New York, died in his sleep in his home, 30 Oakgrove Drive, Williamsville, Buffalo, New York, on June 27, of a heart attack. In student days he was a reserve football lineman, and in Buffalo ser\*ed as president of the N.D. Club of Buffalo. He is survived by ^ his wife, Helen F. Byrne, a daughter, a son in the U.S. Marines, and four grandchildren. First flash on John's death came in a telegram from MARTIN H. BRENNAN, our dassmate. 
J.AMES VIGNOS, Canton, Ohio, died in Can­ton, Ohio, late in July, according to word sent me by RICARD W. McCARTY. '22. Jim is listed on Alumni office records as '*o.s.'19-'21 and *26-*27," but had never asked to be placed on the Alumni mailing list. Consequently he was never listed with our Class. Further details appear else­where in this issue. 
1925 
John P. Hurley m 
2085 Biodcdale Road ^ 
Toledo 6, Ohio 
Were you looking for something? So was your SecFctory! Let's get a "This Is My Life" letter off 
today. At least let me know that you are 
a Uving member of the Class of *23, —John P. Hurley 20eS Brookfield Rd. ^ Toledo 6, Oluo 

From the Alumni Office: 
Congratulations in the name of the Class to »"Light Horse" HARRY STUHLDREHER for 
representing the Class and U. S. Steel so ably at the Notre Dame Class Reunions of 1962—and to the latest "Fifth Honcman," JAMES ELLIOTT ARMSTRONG^ for a variety of achievements in­cluding the presidency of the American Alumni Council (see last Issue), his 35th Wedding Anni> versary, and the coming marriage of the third of five sons in his continuing figlit for at least one GRAN'Ddaughtcr. 
FLASH! 
A special stop-the-presscs bulletin reports that Alumni Patriarch JAMES ELLIOTT ARMSTRONG, after rearing a battalion o{ sons who in turn presented him viith a regi­ment of grandsons, has been rcH-ardcd for his patience Hith the first distofT-side Arm­strong in recent generations. Granddaughter Mai^aret M-as bom to son Dick and mfe in Los Angeles, CaliL, on Sept. 10, 1962. This is Jim's third triumph of 1962, the others being presidency of the American Alumni Coimctl and a 35th wedding anniversar>' for him and wife Marian in June. 
1926 
Frank A. Dcitic 1763 Kessler Blvd. South Bend 16, Ind. 

This spring and summer have taken a great toll of the Class of *2G. In May I received notes of the deaths of JOHN O. TUOHY and URBAN SIMOX. In June AL JOHANNES left us and July marked the passing of ANDY CONLIN, one of the best known and best liked members of our 
kclass. 
' Received notes from RAY DURST, JOHN RYAN, and RUDY GOEPFRICH, each sending a clipping of Andy's sudden passing. Rudy also sent a note from DOC GELSON with a clipping about BER­NIE WINGERTER. Bcrnic has been named man­ager of the Eastern Region of the Electro-Motive Division of General ^fotors. 
On RUDY GOEPFRICH'S last trip to Japan and the Orient this spring, he stopped off at Manila and had a visit with TONY ROX^VS. 
In early -August it was announced that FATHER HOWARD KENNA, C.S.C., has been named pro­vincial of the Indiana province of Holy Cross. 
1927 
Clarence J. Ruddy 32 S. River Street Aurora, Illinois 

Our 35th Class Reunion has now passed into history, along with many other events shared by us through the years. All told, there were 86 registrants, as listed bclou-; Emmcti Barron, Ed­win Bcrkery, Sebastian Bcmcr, Elmer Besten, Harry ^Bicdka, W. O. Brandenburg, Gene Brennan, John ^Butler, William Gate, William Clark, Jr., P. J. Clarke, Maurice Cohen, L. £. Crowley, Joseph Cutts, John Dailey, W, J. Degnen, Sr., Joseph Delhi Maria, George Doherty, WilHam Dotterweich, Albert Doyle, Robert Doylc, Thomas Dunn, Boris Epstein, Victor Fall, Marc Fichrer, Andrew Galone, Joseph Gartland, Jr., John Gear>', John Glaska, John Gruntng, Dick Halpin, John Hatpin, Albert Henry, Leo Herbert, William Holland, John How­ard, Robert Irmiger, W. D. Ka\*anaugh, Thomas Kenny, Jr., Eugene Knoblock, Regis Lavelle, Stan 
«
K:howick, Clayton Leroux, Henry LeStrange, ichard Lynch, Harold McCabe, William Mc­
-^.^j^.^.i:.^. 
CLAYTON G. LEROUX, '27 He's Personal about Personnel 

Clayton Lcroux is considered the "peren­nial Notre Darner of Cleveland." For over thirty years he has annually served in some official capacity on Cleveland Notre Dame Club activities. He was elected president in 1935, having served as treasurer in 1932, and u*as the first Clcvelander to be hon­ored with the Notre Dame Man of the Year A^\*ard. He flashes Ohio license plate "ND 50" and says it is the only way he can brag of always having a "seat on the N.D. 50," although his wife insists that it signifies the 50% of his free time spent on N.D. activ­ities. 
Clayton was bom in Toledo, graduated from St. Ignatius High in Cleveland and 
Cullough, James McFarlane, Edward McKenna, Edward McLaughlin, \^nccnt McXally, Charles Martin, Carl Matthes, Edward Mayer, Aloysius Miller, Frank Moran, James Moran, Ed Mullen, George Mullen, Thomas Nash, John Kyikos, Frank Obarski, Harry O'Boyle, Tliomas O'Connor, James Quinn, C. F. Regan, Jr., Ermin Rcjchcrt, John Rcidy, Stephen Ronay, Clarence Ruddy, Edward Ryan, Harn.* Ryan, J. L. Shccrin, Patrick Size, Alban Smith, Robert Stephan, Richard Smith, Horace Spiller, Luther Suygert, George Thomas, William Travis, John Wallace, Van Wallace, Ernest Wilhchn, Donald Wilkins, and James Wing. 
The list might not be quite accurate because it contains some who prc-regibtcrcd but might not actually have come. These are vcr>- fe^v, however. 
All who were present had no trouble getting back into the spirit of the occasion. Practically the first thing we did Avas to elect officers. We had had no President since JOE BOLAXD*S death, but we rectified that deficiency by electing a new one. MIKE SWYGERT %¥as elected President. Inci­dentally, Alike has received a promotion during the last year. As most of you may know, he is now a Justice of the Circuit Court of .Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, ivith headquarters in Chicago. At the present time he is only one step below the Supreme Court of the United States . . . and w-ho can tell ? Perhaps he may make that Court eventually also. 
VAN WALLACE very fittingly was elected Hon­orary President. Van has always been one of the most devoted members of the class. His affliction has never prevented him from attending reunions 
Notre Dame in the Class of '27. He gradu­ated from Western Reserve Law School in '30 and passed the Ohio Bar the same year. After 12 years in general practice in Cleve­land, he joined industry during the war in personnel work and has completed his eight­eenth year with Monarch Alumintmi Mfg. Company of Cle\'eland as director of indiis­trial relations. 
Interested in aiding worthy students and counseling alumni, he initiated the Cleve­land Scholarship Program and has served as permanent chairman of Scholarship, Guidance & Placement and Directory Com­mittees over the years. He is also a member of the "Man of the Year" committee and has been active on the Foundation Drive. In addition to his N,D. activities Clayt has served as president and board member for 20 years of the Merrick House Settlement; has ser\ed on the personnel committees of the Group Work Council, Occupational Planning Committee, Welfare Federation and National Federation of Settlements; is a member of the Delta Theta Phi Legal Fra­ternity, the Industrial Relations group of the Cleveland Personnel Association and the Associated Industries of Cleveland; and ser\'cs on the Legislative Committee of the Cleveland Chamber of Commerce and the Advisory Committee of St. John's College. He taught at Fenn and S t John's Colleges and has worked for the Catholic Ser\-ice Bureau, United Appeal and various other civic, legal, and parish activities. 
Clayton married Marguerite Powers of Cleveland, a graduate of Marygrovc Col­lege of Detroit. They celebrated their 25th wedding anniversary this year. Two daugh­ters graduated from Marymotmt College of Tarrytown, New York, in June of '61. Marie is doing social work in Milwaukee, and Anne is teaching this year in San Diego, California, after spending the summer tour­ing Europe. Their son, Clayton (Toni) is a senior at Ignatius, looking forward, hope­fully, to Notre Dame. The baby Michaelle, age 7, is "wowing" the 2nd graders at St. Anne's. 
and a number of the football games. The %vriter 
of this column uas re-elected Secretary, so it looks 
as if you all wUl have to bear with me for another 
five years. 
Generally speaking, every classmate looked well 
and healthy. As a matter of fact, many commented 
on how youthful and handsome the other classmates 
looked. We all agreed that every one of us has 
worn his years well. The attendance was large, 
probably because there lurks in the back oC our 
minds the realization that the years arc passing 
and most of our reunions are in the past. 
Several months ago a brochure published in con­nection with the campaign for the library fund reported that one of our classmates, CARLOS TAVARE5 of LaJoUa, California, had recently contributed $500,000.00 towards the development program. The gift of course is tremendous. It is nice to be able to point to a classmate who not only is able to make such a gift, but actually does make it. 
We have had some deaths recently. JIM COLE­MAN died on July 7 and LAWRENCE GROGEN passed away on June 28. I have also received notice that the wife of FRANK MOOTZ died in late July. Remember them all in your prayers. 
I have spoken about the library. While at the reunion most men from all classes observed the library in the process of construction and we 'no­ticed furthermore that there was also under con­struction a miMih smaller bmlding only » few )-ards away. Some of us thought that this was for smaller books, but I tmderstaod that it is going to be the new CcKDputer Center. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 33 
From the Alumni OfEcc: Classmates may have overlooked the hem m the Club Notes of the Notre Datnc Club of the Con­necticut VaIIe>- that attorney- THOMAS B. CURRY had been named Hartford's Notre Dame Man of the Year for 1962. Hartford Times columnist Art McGinley wrote: "No one is more ardent on behalf of his alma mater than Tom, and this is a salute well descr\cd. . . . 200 Notre Dame men from all sections of the Connecticut Valley attested to tlie esteem in whidi the Hartford attome>- is held by fellow alumni. . - Attorney Curry had an interesting experience at the award dinner when one of the diners presented him a button with gold football attacticd that had been a souvenir at the dinner given JOHNNY SMITH of Hartford, Notre Dame's 1927 football captain, at the Bond Hotel, Dec. 28, 1927. Tlic famed KNUTE ROCKNE, long Notre Dame coach, had been the principal ^pcaker. Tom Cunry has held many offices; he has been welfare commissioner, licalth commissioner, fire commissioner, deputy state insurance commis­sioner and was on the committee for the building of the Naylor School. Tliis is the tribute paid him in an illuminated scroll hailing him as Man of the Vcan *Tlic Univcrsitv of Notre Dame and the Notre Dame Club of the Connecticut Valley hereby declares that it recognizes as its Man of the Year' for I9G2, Tliomas B. Curry. .-Vs a member of the bar, his talents have ever been at the disposal of those in need. .\s a public otlicial, he alwaj-s stood for the right tempered by Chris­tian charity. For over -18 years, Tom has proven himself to be a Notre Dame man in the rich sig­nificance of morally responsible leadership for which his Notre Dame training equipped him.' " 
1928 
Louis F. Buckley 68-10 108th Street Forest Hills 75, N.Y. 
As reported by vour secietarv for last Issue's obituar>-, WILLL\M H. PLUCHEL died suddenly at his home in Douglaston. L.I.. New York» on Good Friday, .April 20, 1962, from a heart attack. Bill has been Director, Mail and Express, T.W..^.. in New York. He is 5ur\'ived by his uifc and a son, age 17. Bill ^sas verv' helpful to your Class Secretary in locating an apartment when I came to New York almost three years ago- He was interested in the Class and never failed to respond to my requests for ac\vs. FATHER .\NDY MUL­RE.\NY, aS.C . wUl offer a Mass for Bill at the request of the Class. 
JOHN THO.MAS JACKSON, %vho uas at Notre Dame -with us during our freshman year, died Fcbruar>- 25, 1961. John was owner and manager of Merchants Advertising Senice in Cold\*'ater. Michigan. He served as alderman and mayor of Coldwater and was active in the Michigan and National Outdoor Advertising Association. 
-April 4, 1962 u-as Class of '28 day before the Senate Judiciary Committee where the Presidential appointments were approved of BILL JONES to the U. S. District Court in Washington, D.C., and GEORGE BE.\MER to the U.S . District Court for Northern Indiana. Congratulations, Bill and George. 
J1.M ALL.AN and BILL MUHPHY represented the Class at F.VTHER -ANDY MULREAN'Y'S sil­ver jubilee of his ordination at St. Pius X Churcli, Granger, Indiana. Father .Andy u-as pleased to receive greetings on this occasion from a number of other classmates, including TOM HART, VINCE CARNEY, TOM JONES, JOHN SHEEDY. TOM MAHON, MIKE HOGAN, BERN GARBER, JOE DOR.AN, GEORGE COURY, JOHN LEITZINGER and MAURICE CONLEY. 
Plans arc well under way for our thirty-fifth '28 Class reunion at Lyons Hall at Notre Dame on June 14, 15 and 16, 1963. Our President. JIM ALLAN, has appointed the foUowing committees: Local .Arrangements: F.ATHER MULRE.AN'Y and ED QUIXN as co-chairman, assisted bv BILL MURPHY and FLOYD SEARER; Publicltv: BERN GARBER, Chairman, assisted bv GEORGE KEL­LEY, BILL DWYER, GEORGE SCHEUER, LEO -MclNTYRE. GENE FARRALL, JACK WIN­GERTER, JOE BR.ANNON, GORDON BENNXT, 
34 Notre Dame Alumnus^ October, 1962 

25 YEARS in the College o( Business Adnunistration (fonncrly Commerce] filled the happy rcnunisccnccs of Professors Bernard B, Finnan (left) and James Dincolo of the Department of .Accountancy at a recent dinner in their honor. Both were educated in Eastern schools, joined the faculty in 1937, and have been Indiana certified accountants 
since the 1940's. (Sec story on page 9.) 
ED MQWRY, DICK PARRISH and DICK GREEN; Glee Club: FR-ANK CRE.ADON and R.AY MULLIG.AN; Clothing: VINCE CARNEY. The following have been asked to arrange lunclieon or breakfast get-togethers: HOWIE PH.ALIN for Commerce; GEORGE SCHEUER for Journalists; AL SCHNURR for .Architects; CYP SPORL for lawyers and .AL D.AVIS for Engineers. Thanks to the dassmates who responded to JOE LANGTON'S request last September, we have a fund of $600.00 to use for cosu of mailings in the promo­tional work. 
In reading the January 15, 1962, issue of tlic magazine, "Steel," I noticed a picture of FRANK J, DONOV.AN, President, Kaydon Engineering Cor­poration, Muskegon, Michigan, and an account of how he resolved, with the aid of union leaders, a problem of low productirity and high costs. 
F. X. O^BRIEN sent me a clipping from a Miami, Florida, paper which carried a picture of GEORGE E. LEPPIG, Chief of Public Safety, Dade County Department of Public Safety. 
GEORGE COURY with a group of Florida businessmen completed a tour behind the Iron Curtain visning Prague. Moscow, Poland and East Berlin. GENE F.ARRELL celebrated his ten years as editor of the New Jersey Journal and his thirty years with the S. I. Ncwhousc Newspapers by visiting cities in Holland and France as a kind of unofficial ambassador for the City of Jersey City, Hoboken and State of New Jersey. Incidentally, your class secretary, on the recommendation of Secretar>' Goldberg, has been invited by the Gov­ernment of West Germany to study techniques and administration of labor programs in Germany. I will be there in October and November. 
I saw a number of classmates reccntlv. F-ATHER MARK FITZGERALD stopped in New York on his return from Washington. D.C., where he offi* dated at the wedding of Dr. JOE SULLlA^AN^S daughter. Judge BILL JONES visited us recently with his wife. Hb daughter who was graduated from Newton College in June is spending a year in Rome, Italv, where she is doing graduate work, I had lunch with JACK WTXGERTER of Time, Inc. where he devotes most of his time to special projects involving poIic>- matters. LEO Mc­lNTYRE and I did a lot of reminiscing .when we got together at my daughters home in .AUentown, Pa., where Leo is in the real estate business. Leo has three children in college, one at Notre Dame and two daughters at Mount St. Mary's College at Emmitsburg. BERN GARBER and I got to­getlier for lunch to talk over plans for our thirt>'­fifth reunion. Bernic is already working hard oi v promoting attendance as manv of vou have heard from him. 1 called HENRY CLEMENT recently when I was in Plainfield. New Jersey. Henr\- is still practicing law there, is married, and js a director of the Suburban Trust Company, Pulva Corporation and the Refractory and Insulation Company. Henry served as municipal judge for 14 years in Plainfield. He is active in the Na­tional Safety Council. 

TOM WALSH, attoniey in Lincoln. Illinois, was a candidate for Democratic State Committeeman in Illinois. Our class treasurer, TOM HART, has recovered from a long illness and is back on the job in the insurance business in Columbus. .^_ friend from Susquehanna. Pa., mentioned tha ^ TOM McMAHON still lives there, is single and works for the State of Pennsylvania. It is the first report I have had on Tom in years. 
The Class of '28 was well represented at the Universal Notre Dame night dinner in Chicago by JIM ALLAN, BILL DWYER, BILL MURPHY, HOWARD PHALIN, JOHN RICKORD, BILL KEARNEY and BERT KORZEN. My daughter, who attended the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner in AUentown, reported that LEO Mc­lNTYRE was honored for the outstanding job he did in going way beyond his quota on the N.D. Fund drive there. 
It was good to hear after many years from CECIL ALEX.ANDER who is an insurance broker in Chicago. Cecil has three children ranging in age from 23 to 6. Cecil reports that ART GOLD­BERG is still Vice President of Balaban & Katz and has made quite a reputation for himself iq^ the theatrical legal field. ^ 
BILL ARMIN is now living in Dowagiac, Michigan, and is commuting to Chicago where he is a methods analx'st with the Air Force Contract Management District. Bill mentioned that he and BILL MURPHY got together at his home in Do­wagiac for a good session rrccntly. 
Plan to attend our seventh *28 Class cocktail party with your ^\ife, children and friends after the Midiigan State game on October 20, 1962, in the basement of O'ShaugUnessy Hall on the campus. < I am pleased .to report that tlic death notice r ^ garding EDWARD P. R/VFTER in the .Aucust i^siW of the ALUMNUS was in error. I wish to extend 
»
sympathy to Ed on the death of his father on February 27 and to RAY MULLIGAN whose father died on September I. 
Frnni the Alumni Office: Secretary LOUIS F. BUCKLEY continues to apply Christian social principles to Iiis speeches and writings as New York regional administrator for the Labor Department's Bureau of Employ­nieiil Security. In two papers prepared for Sep­tember's Sodality Congress of ibe Lay .Apostolate in New York (**Sccial Security & Social Insurance^' and "Papal Principles on Wage Income, Employ­ment Security & Profit Sharing") he delivered trenchant anal>-scs of the great social encyclicals. '•Rcrum Xovarum," ''Quadrigesimo Anno** and ^*'Mater et Magistra,*' applying their social thought "to such contemporaiy topics as tlic question of nu-dical care for the aged. 
.\ late August bulletin from the Secretar>-: "We IiiNt one of the best known and most active members of our class in the sudden death of HENRY H.ASLEY of a heart ailment on August 17 in Fort Wayne. Indiana. He was a prominent Fort Wayne Iaw\-cr and civic leader who was named "Notre Dame Man of the Year" in 1960. Survivors in­clude his wife, two daughters and a son, a Notre Dame graduate who is a senior medical student at Georgetown University. IIenr>' attended all of our Class reunions and many of our Class get-togethers following football games. I want to thank DICK QUINLA N for advising me of Hcnrv-'s death. x\ 
»
Mass was olTered at the request of the Class by F.\THER MULRE.VNY tor Henry." 
1929 
Larry Staudcr Engineering Bldg. Notre Dame, Indiana 
REV. REGIS RITER, C.S.C., of the Class of 

^^3 . who had been ill for some months, died July 
^^ 7 and was buried from Sacred Heart Church. He had no surviving immediate fanitlv to comfort tiim. REV. LOUIS THORNTON, C.S.C., has been asked to say a Mass for the repose of his soul in behalf of the Class. Father Lou is resident chap-Iain in the student infirmary* now, in addition to serving as Director of Placement. His former ad­dress was Dillon Hall. 
REV. HENRY B. ALT.MAN has moved from Glasgow, Montana, lo St. Joseph's Church, P.O. Box 2095, Great Falls, Montana. Say "hi" to him cnroutc to Seattle. And if you leave via Portland vou will be welcome at the Universitv of Portland where REV. JAMES E. NORTON, 
^r:.S.C., is Dean of Students and Dean of Men. 
W''atlier Norton is completing a term as assistant to the president, REV. HOWARD KENNA, C.S.C., newly chosen provincial-elect of the Order. 
''Tliis is my first letter to you with news of my­self, my wife, who is in her twentieth year as organist at St. Veronica's Church in Anibridge, Pa., and my five children. . . ." So begins an interesting and informative letter from CHARLES 
J. RIHN, 509 Church St., AHquippa, Pa., who is a super\*isor with the Pennsvlvania Association for the Blind (Oakland). 
*'Twin daughters each married and with two children, one to a Charles Carey of Bell Aircraft in BufTalo, the other to Giis DiMar/in now with Jonc S: Laughlin Steel in .Miquippa, are eldest. A son recently married lo Dorothy Staudt of Avalon, Pa., and a daughter engaged to William Moore of Pittsburgh Iiavc contributed to a busy summer at the Rihns. The youngest ton is in high SCIKNII 
^Dreparing for the .-\ir Force Academy. 
W "Much has happened since graduation a century ago. .. . I now weigh 225 pounds, have lost most of my hair and all of my teeth — and none of my sense of humor. The Blessed Mary has watched over me all of my life. .. . I made a retreat at St. Paul's Monastery in Pittsburgh," continues Charles, "and am again a daily communicant and more thankful than ever! I plan to attend an N.D. luncheon at the Penn-Sberaton soon, but see little hope of getting to the Michigan State game, Oc­tober 20 for the Class of *29 post game get-together. 
Au t I operate under God's Will-—so who knows." ^Thank you, Charles, from your Class secretary. 
CALUMET REGION —At scholarship presentation ceremonies (from left), Calumet Club scholar George Scnko receives his award from Robert Welsh, co-chairman of the scholarship committee, and Benedict Danko, Club president. 
for an inspiring letter, congratulations, Man of 
Notre Dame, and please do not wait another cen­
tury* to xvrite.) 
"God's Will" gave you loyal readers (mostly 
wives I've been told) a double treat. My fellow 
E.E. and fellow "do-it-yourselfer," BERNARD J. (PAT) 0*LEx\RY, of Ohio Bell. Columbus, Ohio, writes: 
"I'm responding to your plea for news of '29crs, 
so here goes. I can't remember when I last wrote 
you so I'll pick up where I think I left off, when 
I was transferred here from Zancsvillc in January 
of 1957. (Tliat looks awful when you put it down 
on paper.) 
*'Since we would be reasonably permanent, we decided to buy, rather than rent as wc had been doing when we were batting all around Ohio on frequent transfers. In order to cut down on the price, I had the builder leave all the interior trim and walls for me lo finish. Also, I had him leave the yard for my efforts. Tlierein lies part of the reason for my slowness in writing. It has been a rewarding, but also time consuming, biL«iness. I^ve had to call upon two of my college courses rather extensively, namely, machine shop and woodwork­ing. In addition I have completed a home study course in such varied subjects as horticulture, floriculture, landscape archilecture, agriculture and first aid. The latter ciuirse was to care for the aches, pains, bruises and blisters that always raised their ugly heads. My academic work also took me into such fields as the blending of colors in paints, the textures of wall coverings, the various t\-pcs of floor coverings, the best kind of a sealer for base­ment walls, etc., etc., etc. 
"Unfortunately, all this study was from catalogs, trade publications, magazines, Sunday supplements and the old faithful cut-and-tr\* process, so it car­ried no credit. If it had, I would be right up there with the rest of you who have attained your doctorate. My dissertation might be lacking in Journalistic finesse but believe me, Larr>*, it would not lack in objectivity. The principal theme would be something like *look before you leap, that first step is a son-of-a-gun.' 
"Enough of thai gufi". I'll give you some info about the 0'Lear%* tribe. All three kids are mar­ried and have families of their own so Leona and I arc back where we started. Jack has three boys. He's employed at Kimball Glass here, a subsidiarj' of Owens-Illinois. He finished from Annapolis in '54, took his commission in the air force, ser\'ed a hitcli at Lockbourne AFB, another at Elmondorf in Anchorage, Alaska, and then back to the States at Lockbourne. He resigned his commission in '60. ^ 
'*Jim has a boy and a girl, resides at New Lon­don, Conn., was graduated from the U.S. Merchant ^farine Academy at Kings Point, N.V., in '58 and is now one of the engineering officers on the 
N.S. Sa\'annali. 
"Susie went to Ohio State two years, decided she'd rather be a homemaker, was married in '60 
and is now living in Ann Arboor, Mich. She has 
a little baby gal. 
".All three married Catholics, so *the Boss' and I felt we may not be completely over the hump, but we've gone a considerable distance down the road in that direction. 
"My work here is in the Traflic Personnel sec­tion. It covers a \vtde range from staff supervision of employment offices through management training activities to the interpretation and administration of our group insurance and major medical plans. A far cry from the AC and DC courses, the chem­istry and physics labs, and the calculus, analyt and trig wc s^veated out. I like the work because I find it a real challenge. In many respects it is like research. U you sit back and do nothing it follows that not a great deal will be accomplished. However, if you use your native intelligence, know­how, ingenuity and imagination there is much that can be accomplished. . . . Our regards to you, Mrs. Staudcr and young Larry.'* 
Thanks, Pat and Leona, you can still say "y^ung Larry" (now age 18 and a freshman at Notre Dame. who aspires to be a drummer in the marching band) but not "little Larry." Margaret joins me in encouraging you to phone ROCCO PERONE and accompany him and Agnes to South Bend, October 20. THAD HEINLEIN and famHy and most of the regulars plan to attend. Thad's letter will appear next time as will those of CLETE SCHNEIDER, DR. TO.M FERRITER, Springfield. .Mass., JI.M BRADY. JOHN GILTINOX (who attended a retreat of Catholic Lawyers Guild at Notre Dame in March and then sailed for Italy, etc) and PAUL HEMMY, JR. Wc have Paul to thank for details on the untimely death of REY­NOLD A. DENIGER, '29, prominent Beaver Dam. Wisconsin, business leader. He died June 15. Wc send our svmpathy to bis wife Olive, to son> RICHARD J., 'M and PAUL H., '60, both of Beaver Dam and to daughter Mary Margaret. Reynold was president of Connors Seed Corp. and of the Farmers State Bank. He was a Fourth Degree member of the Knights of Columbus and generally active in religious and civic organiza­tions. 
From the Alumni Office: Congratulations are in order for: Col. JOHN V. HINKEL» whose appointment as Washington vice-president of Kelly-Sanders, Inc., *'spotlighted" in the last issue, has changed the public relations firm's name to Kelly-Sanders-Hinkel, Inc.; KARL 
F. JOHNSON, Indianapolis industrialist, named by the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis as 1962 Notre Dame Man of the Year; and especially FRED WAGNER of Tiffin, O., elected president of Serra International at the n-cent convention In Phila­delphia. 
1930 
Dcvcrc Plunltctt 0*SIiaughnessy Hall Notre Dam^ Indiana 

BILL SHERMAN of Knowille visited the campus 
late in May to drive his son home for vacation. 
We were all sorr>* to learn of the death of Bill's 
lather last Januar>*. 
JIM O'KEEF E and several of his family were 
at Commencement in June for the graduation of 
his son, George. 
WALT L.\NGFORD was back from Chile in 
August and visited on the campus. He was going 
to Purdue to help In training another Peace Corps 
unit, and then was returning to Chile. 
The Class of 1930 extends sympathy to BOB 
HOLMES on the death of his brother in July. 
TI.M TOOMEY is out of the starting line-up fur 
a while. He had a slight coronary attack July 9 
and, at this writing, he Is taking it easy at the 
Storrow House, Boston, Mass. Tim has had a 
lot of messages of encouragement, but could use 
a few more. His home address, where he will likely 
be when this edition hits the street. Is 12 Winder­
mere Ave., Arlington 74, Massachusetts. 
DICK BLOO.\f has gone to Ireland (Northern, 
that is) to be managing director of a new plant 
opened there by Oneida Ltd. 
TLM BRADLEY gave up his bachelorhood on 
.August 6, so Toomey reported. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Ocioher, 1962 35 
TOM LANTRY and family %-isited the campus for the Parents-Junior Class week end in April. 
Many class members have expressed their shock at learning of Bemie Conroy's death. I am sure he vt-ill be remembered in prayers by classmates of 1930. 
CHARLEY MORRISON of ifissouri wot e us recently a letter of reminiscences as he paged through some Domes of the 1930 era. 
Some months before TLM TOOMEVS illness, he wrote a report of news and people around Notre Dame- Here it is: 
"After reading the latest issue of the ALUNfNUS. 1 had the feeling perhaps some of the brothers had neglected to keep you posted on the doing of 'Riflemen.' I decided to use my confinement period (I am snowed in here in Greenfield) and send along a bit of gossip and news which has come my way. 
"I want to thank you again for all the kindness shown me during my vhlt to the Campus last fall. Some of the wise ones claimed if I remained back East the football team would have done better in the Northwestern and Na\y games. From where 1 sat, it would have made little difference where I had elected to remain. 
"My 10-day slop in Indiana was a most pleasant one. It included a Cook's Tour a la Toomcy of cver\' inch of the campus, across the lake and to St. Mar\-'s, where I lived during my senior year at School. I \'isited ever\- cliapel a\'ailahle to me and a hurried count was 21. Ever>'one was most kind and the pages of tlie Book of Time certainly seemed to have been turned back for me as I roamed the Campus like a loose horse doing what­ever I wished and at whatever time I felt like doing it. 
'*I attended football practice and renewed old friendships with some of coacliing staff including Freshman Coach HUGH DEVORE, '3i. I had knou-n Co-Capt. NICK BUONICONTI, *62, since his high school days at Cathedral in Springfield, Mass., where he was a classmate of a niece. Nick is a great player and should do very %\-ell witli the Boston Patriots in American Football League with which team he has signed to play next vear. Coach JOHNNY JORDAN, '34, inWted me to watch his basketball squad in pre-season practice and I felt right at home when I visited kindly JACK MCALLISTER in the Equipment Room at the G>-m. Mack forgot himself once or twice and ordered me out. He said he thought I was a student. His heart was always bigger than any command he ever directed at me. 

*'The \Tsit to Eddie's with yourself was one of the high lights. We met all the brass from the AtfaleUc Dcpt., including HERB JONES, '26; ED KRAUSE , '34; BOB CAHILL, '34; CHARLIE CALLAHAN, '38; and JOE KUHARICH. '38. As the guest of LOUIS F. BUCKLEY, '28, I attended a cocktail party of the Class of '28 in O'Shaugh­ncssy Hall. Hiere I met many friends of that famed group including JOHN P. (LITTLE CLIP­PER) SMITH, Captain and .Mi-American guard of the 1927 eleven. John has a son in Class of 1965. DON SCHETTIG was at Class of '29 Cock­tail party where I met JOHN DORG.AN, JOE NASH and JOE LENIHAN who told me JIM FRIEL was well and had become a granddad for the second time. Joe's daughter Sharon is at St. Mary's and it was a pleasure to meet the young lady together with her mother, the former Dolores Friel. BOB HELLRUNG, JACK ELDER, JACK SAUNDERS, '31; CHRISTY FLANAG.AN, '28; JIM SULLIVAN of Detroit, Professor FRANK O'&tALLEY, '31, were others I bumped into during my wanderings. I came out from Clinton, Mass., via new Ford station wagon, and made it prac­tically non-stop with three drivers during tlie trip. I keep up a rapid fire spiel about all the places I had never visited. These new liighways changed all the places I needed to come through years ago on the way back East. The visit to Clinton, Mass. brought news of PAT HASTINGS. I did not see him, but learned he is well. ED PHIL­BIN, '28; JOHN BURKE, '29, and PHIL PHIL­BIN, *58, were on hand to start us off on the Wells Fargo. 
"I dined at Morris Inn with D.\N CUNNING­HAM, '27, an old friend from N.Y. City days; bad a nice visit there with our Standard Bearer, CHICK DRISOOLL, his wife and son. Also CHARUE CUSmVA, '31, and hb famUy brought greetings from ED CONROY who is doing a bang up job as Director of Urban Development in Charlie'i native city, Yoimgstown, Ohio. JACK EUW R and his bride brought greetings from IndianaiK^, and when JOHN ROCAP reads this it is to let him know I'll be looking forward to his visit to Boston come August for Supreme Directors Meeting and National Annual Conven­
36 Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 
RICHARD A. BLOOM, '30, "spotUghted" 
in 1951 as a top executive of Oneida Ltd., 
has spent the past few months in Ireland 
as managing director of the new Oneida 
plant in Bangor, County Down. While in 
Ireland, Dick hopes to exonerate the fair 
name of Bloom on the Emerald Isle, much 
maligned in a novel hy a blatherskite 
named James Joyce. Dick and his wife, 
the former Gertrude Viola Duggan (whose 
lineage includes the names O'Connor and 
O'Houlihan), have t^o sons. Robert, '54, 
and his wife (the former Pat Farley) have 
given Dick two grandchildren. Ronald, 
'59, is a Lt. (j.g.) in the Navy; he and 
his wife (whose last name was Fitz­
^mmons) hope to contribute a third 
Bloom grandchild before winter. 
tion of K. of C. BOB HELLRUNG v^-as in from 
St. Louis for both games I saw. Bob looks real fit 
and has not changed too much. He has been an 
active alumnus in hb native city and lias done a 
splendid job in all round community service in 
his home town. 
"I had lunch with good old DANNY *THE DI P CANNON and his wife before the Navv­game. He said Jack was welt and had attended tiie So. California game. Dan's son is in service after a year as a student at the University. Dan Jr. will resume his studies following his tour of duty. BERNIE CONROY sent a letter early in the Fall. He ^vas looking forward to a visit from us for the Pitt game. I can't make them all. Bcrnie's son is in Rome studying for the priest­hood. I took off for Chicago immediately after Navv- game and had as a fellow passenger on South Shore, JIM LE.AHY, our midwestern vice prcxy and his son. JLM MULVANEY, '30/., was our genial host during our short visit to the Windy City. Jim is general manager of Mather Ticket Division-Fridcn Corp. in Schiller Park, Illinois. I visited all the spots and learned with regret the Waiters Club closed after Repeal. This place was like the Statue of Liberty during our student days. Evcr>-one from the Campus visiting Chi. dropped in. Tlie password was a Notre Dame dining hall card. 
*'At O'Harc .Mrport I had a chat with LOU STETTLER who was leaving en a business trip at the time of my own departure. JIM SHEILS, *35, former National Alumni Board member and active in New York City Club affairs, was also at the Air Terminal flying back to N.Y. City v%ith one of his youngsters after a visit to the campus. The flight to Boston was my first in a jet and the ship made the Hub in one hour and twenty-five minutes. On November 11, 1961 I attended the fint Mass in the Chapel at Cardinal O'Hara Hall, Stonchill College. Tlie celebrant was Most Rev. John Krol, D.D., v%-ho succeeded beloved CARDINAL O'HARA as .Archbishop of PhUa­
delphia. Also had the honor of having breakfast with Bishop Krol and Cardinal O'Hara's three ^ sisters who came en from Indianapolis for thew dedication of the beautiful dormitory named in memory of 'Father John.' When the 'spear men' started to needle me about my own spinsterhood the O'Hara sisters defended me and invited me to visit them at their home. CARDINAL SPELL­MAN presided at formal dedication of the build­ing. Many of the Notre Dame Club of Boston attended the dedication luncheon hosted by Presi­dent REV. RICHARD SULLIVAN, C^.C , '34, President of Stonehill College, including REV. CHRISTOPHER OTOOLE, C.S.C., '29, Superior General, Congregation of the Holy Cross. We heard directly from the following: JOHN RED­GATE, who was knocked galley west for about four months with a serious leg fracture. Bus' family is all grown up. He has a son at BC anc^ another preparing for the priesthood. JOHN MORAN (Lefty) of Westchester County visited Boston to see his daughter who attends college here. He has not kept his promise to give me a ring on one of these quick trips. I know he is pressed for time. The Boston JOHN MORAN is with U.S. Dcpt. of Labor in Chicago. FATHER JIM RIZER has been temporarily assigned to Our Lady of Peace Hospital, Louisville, Kentucky. He had a nice visit with BILL RUPERT, the insur­ance magnate. DR. JOHN FORSEE was sched­uled to join these two for a luncheon. No word on this to date. DUTCH HINSENK.AMP sent a card and note at Christmas. Old Henry is a real good friend and along with many others gave us a big lift during rough dav-s. A 
"Before I close this ramble I want you to know^ I also visited FATHER LEN COLLINS, Dean of Men. I called at the new Infirmary to see FATHER 'MIKE' MULCAIRE and FATHER DICK GRIMM. Both were out at time of my visit. FATHER DICK was recuperating from surgcr>-. CLARENCE 'KOZY* KOZAK, PAT CONROY and JIM ARMSTRONG are to be included among those I chatted with. Cardinal O'Hara's final resting place in Sacred Heart Church was the first and last place I visited on the Campus where I uttered a humble prayer of thanks to one who did so much for me. My trip also included frequent visits to the Grotto to pray for all my classmates." 
TOM LAN*TRY wrote some time ago: 

"Met WARREN FOGEL at a Marymount Col­lege father and daughter week end, in Tarrv'town, where his daughter is a freshman and mine is ^A senior. ^ 
"HENRY FREY — saw him at a AVarchousc­men's Christmas part>'. He is with Santini Bros. 
"Visited with JIM DEELEY in the Brooklyn Union Gas Company's new building at Borough Hall, Brooklyn. Jim is Vice President with that company. His daughter, Joan, is graduating from Skidmore this June. 
"Sa\v my brother-in-law, CON CAREY, the early part of December in Malone, N.Y., when I was there for the funeral of an elderly aunt. Also saw my brother Harry, \vho is living in Helena, N.Y., with his family of ten. 
Understand CHARLES DUFFY is now scnio^ vice-president of the Long Island Lighting ComV pany. 
"Give ray best regards to FRANK O'MALLEY and his associates in the John Birch Society." 
^0m: 
1931 
James T. Doyle 805 W. Arcadia Ave. Arcadia, Calif. 

Your class sccretarv* has been a bit derelict duiW* ing the past several months due to my moving to California. I returned to Chicago for a few weeks 
in March and managed to contact a few class­mates at that time. It has been my pleasure to visit with TOM ASHE several times, and while I hear of other classmates I have been unable to contact them to date. GIL SE.%MAN paid us a visit in January and we manned to get together with Tom at that time. Of interest Is the recent wedding of the daughter of our late classmate JOE LAUERMAN to MICHAEL SEAMAN, 'o A in Marinette, Wisconsin, August 4. I will short!; 
have a report of the affair from Gil after he has 
chance to rest up. rBILL REAUME WTotc tne in February about 
the death of our classmate RAY RVAN, who died shortly after being elected mayor of Massillon, Ohio. Bill had a call from JERRY McKEEVER saying that his daughter joined the Holy Humility of Mar>' order. During a trip to Florida he also managed to have a visit with FRED RAHAIM in Jacksonville. The JAMES D. McQUAIDS celebrated the iwcnty-fifth anniversary of their marriage June 3rd at Viocennes, Indiana. 
Another recent correspondent is TOM GOLDEN of Pierce City, Missouri. He mentioned having a card from TOM KORAN of Australia, who lived in Morrisscy Hall and is now in Fayettcvillc, Arkansas, where he is teaching at the Univ. of Arkansas. 
• Tom also hears from ART KANE of Baxter, Kansas, where he is pi^Hcity director for the Empire District Electric Co. Tom planned on making the Oklahoma-N.D. game at Norman this fall and I hope I wilt have another letter on people he may sec there. GIL SEAMAN had lunch with LUIS GODOY in Chicago recently. Luis is in the insurance business in New York, as he had to give up his business interests in Cuba and flee to New York. I remember him well as the roommate of PHIL PRENDERGAST on the second floor of Badin Hall during our senior year. DE.AN SUTTON has moved from Memphis, Tenn., and is now living at 233 E. 69th St., Apt. 21, New York 21, N.Y. BRO. EDWIN A. ROHR­BACH is now at St. Mary's Unit-., in San .An­
ftonio, Texas. JOHN PATRICK RYAN has moved from I^ong Beach to Louisville, Ky. FRAN BEAUPRE has forsaken Michigan for New Or­leans, La., where he lives at 1925 Napoleon Ave. JOE 0*HORA also has forsaken Michigan for Neiv York, N.Y. He can be reached at Apt. 9-A, 460 E. 79th Street. 
I am living at 805 W. Arcadia Avenue, .Arcadia, California, and would like to hear from classmates with news for the column. This is necessarily short due to a lack of news and also at the request of the editor to conser\'c space this issue. 
From the Alumn! Office: Just in case an)-foody missed the stor>' and picture via United Press International, here's a note to make you feel young. JOE SAVOLDI, the "Jumpin* Joe" of football, wrestling and "What's My Line," A\k-as jumping with joy in June. The reason: Joe, who never quite made it to graduation with the Class, received his .A.B. at the age of 54 from Evansvillc College after a 32-year lapse. . The new graduate, now living in Henderson, Ky., com­pleted his interrupted college work so that he can teach school after tr>'ing nearly cver>* other occu­pation kno\%*n to man. Congratulations, Giuseppe, and best of luck! On August 4 Mr. and Mrs. EARL WILLUM BRIEGER gave daughter Gretchrn in marriage to Dr. Herbert M. Asato in Honolulu, Hawaii, where the .Asatos will reside. 
t 1932 
James K. Collins 
2982 Torrington Rd. 
Shaker Heights, Ohio 

Our 30th Reunion was promised to be the world's greatest, and it did not miss. They came from all over the country, filled Howard Hall, blocked the archways, ignored the rain, and were still going good Sunday. 
Tlic Class Dinner was held in the Xfaliogany Room of the Morris Inn, and the crowd filled the large conference room. IKE TERRY was elected Class President and immediately took charge. 
The new District Vice Presidents are: GENE CONNOLLY for New York and the East, BEN SALVATY for the West Coast, TEX SIMMONS for Texas and the Southwest, MIKE MOORE 
0fo r the Campus and vicinit>-, FRAN OELERICH for Chicago and Wcinity, and RAY GEIGER for the Northeast — with the added duties of being ambassador-at-Iarge for the Class. Ray travels the whole country for his Fanner's Almanac business and can do a good job on checking with ever>'one. CLIFF FRODEHL did a fine job in organizing and publicizing the Reunion and his committee, particularly MIKE MOORE, really worked at it. 
The religious high light %vas the Glass Mass said by the MOST REV. PAUL HALUNAN. Arch­
^bishop of AtlanU. It was great being with him 
^IMZticuUrly since it was his second week end in a row on the Campus; he had gi\Tn the baccalaureate 
MAURICE W. LEE, '33 Illinois' Bull Elk, a Busy Chicagoan 

Maurice William Lee, A.B. '33, LL.B. '35, was unanimously elected president of the Illinois Elks Association at its annual con­vention in Springfield. 
The Illinois Elks Association is comprised of 67,000 Elks in 94 lodges in cities and vil­lages throughout the state. He is the first Chicagoan to hold the office of president in the 58-year history of the State .Association. 
Past Exalted Ruler of Chicago South Lodge No. 1596, the second largest lodge in the State of Illinois, Maurie has been an officer of that lodge longer than any living member. In addition to his fraternal affairs, he was formerly a governor of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago; is an advisor to the Retarded Children's .Aid, operating a par­ent's school for retarded children; is a director of the Research Foundation for Mentally 111 and Retarded Children; is chairman of the Board of Directors and founding members of the Tony Piet Service Foundation, attempting to bring a Boy's Town to Chicago; and is also secretary-treasurer of Franklin Boule\"ard Communi­ty Hospital. Mr. Lee is a partner in the Loop law firm of Perlin and Lee and is a law partner of Judge Maurice Perlin of the Illinois Court of Claims. 
Maurie is married to Eva K. Lee, former­ly of South Bend, Indiana. They have twin children: Robert E. Lee II and Maureen E. Lee, age 15. Son Bob is a junior at Leo High School of Chicago, conducted by the Christian Brothers of Ireland, and daughter Maureen is a junior at the .Academy of Our Lady, operated by the School Sisters of Notre Dame. Maurie's brother, Capt. Bob Lee, '32, has previously been spotlighted as one of the top legal officers of the U.S. Navy. 
address to the gradnatins dass tlie previous Suadxf. 
Many, too numerous to name, were atteodiag their first reunion since graduation. ED 0*SUIXI­VAN from San Francisco and KAY GEIGEK frram Maine probably came the greatest distances. It was good to see ABE ZOSS again as he had a Ion; siege of illness. We learned that PAUL HOST has been very ill, as has been BEKNIE HEIXZ'S wife. 
FETE STKEB was busy promoting the profes­sional football Hall of Fame in Canton, and FLO MCCARTH Y is doing promotional work for the World's Fair of I96» in New York. 
ED KOLSKI is on the Illinois Athletic Com­mission, and has just finished building a Sports Center in Chicago. JOHN KYAS is with the NCWC Netvs Bureau in Washington; JOHN POWER is Loan Supervisor for the Equitable Life Assurance Society in Milwaukee, and BILL JONES is chief cost accountant for Koidak in Rochester. 
We were very sorry to team of the death of JOHN HUMPHREYS in Denver on June 15 of this year, and that of TOM MEADE on May 17, 1957. Mass for each of them was said on the Campus on July 7. 
Mrs. Evelyn Powers, wife of OLLIE POWERS, died on July 29 in Chicago. Besides Ollie, she is survived by three children and five grandchildren. EWe was well known to many of our Class who were saddened by her passing. 
Many of the Class had sons graduating on the Campus this year and among them were BUDD DYNIEWICZ, JOE CAREY, FRANK OBERKOET­TER, DON McMANUS and BEN SALVATY. Joe's son will enter the Holy Cross Novitiate which is located in Jordan, Minnesota, in August. PAUL OTOOLE's son, Paul, Jr., will be in his second year at Mundelein Seminary in Chicago this fall. 
RAY GEIGER wrote on July 29: "Just by way of being a roving reporter, visited with CLAY JOHNSON Saturday, July 21, at North Sebago, Maine, where Clay was picking up his fine son Peter at Camp Sebaik. He did get a chance to come by my cottage and my wife commented that he certainly looked much younger than me. Life was ever thus." 
The Class officers agreed that not enough new] of members of the Class was getting into this column, so they urged everyone to supply the writer with any items of interest. We shall wel­come all letters and see to it that all news gets printed. 
From the Alumni Office: Congratulations to RICHARD T. RONEY, elected in June as a vice-president of Conover-Mast Publications, Inc., publishers of several trade magazines and directories. Dick has been pub­lisher of the Conover-Mast Purchasing Directory since 19G0. Formerly sales manager, he has been with Conover-Mast since publication began in 1940. The Roneys and their six children live in Glen Ridge, N.J. 
1933 
John A. Hoyt, Jr. Gillespie & O'Comor 342 Madison Ave. New York 17, N.Y. 
As we go to press in midsummer, we arc re­minded that we have less than ten months for preparation for our 30th Reunion, June 1963. 
The Alumni Office recorded 153 in attendance at our 25th Reunion. The plan <^ the then Class officers to raise a 25th Reunion Fund from all members of our Class was moderately successful. In 1958 the University directed its alumni appeal towards helping the new C.S.C. Seminary at Notre Dame, then nearing completion. Your Class Fund was accordingly donated to the Seminary in mem­ory of our o\*-n beloved "FATHER CHARA," the Cardinal-Archbishop of Philadelphia. 
Since our Reunion in 1938 death has taken a hea\-y toll on the members of our Class—many of whom were at our 25th Reonioa. Remember them in your prayers—MIKE KOKEN, LEO DILUNG, JACK FINNERAN, RALPH FUftS-TOSS, PAT RYAN, JACK LEISEN, THOUAS 
M. MCLAUGHLIN, JOHN BICNEILL, ED MOR­lARTY, LOU STAELENS, ADRIAN NEAL, RAY REULAND. AL RIPLEY and JACK CANDOUR. 
Notu Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 37 
From this comer, a suggestion tliat bears tlie 

"imprimatur" of our Class President, JACK 
0*SHA13GHNESSEY — establish a Mass Fund for 
the deceased members of our Class. It is anticipated 
that in the late fall wc %%-ilI get out a general class 
letter which w-iU outline this plan and otliers 
which w*!II be given attention at our "upcoming'' 
Reunion. 
ED ROXAS is now witli Ansor Corp. in Xew 

York — a far crj* from his native Manila. GENE 
CALHOUN's new address is 756 S. Massclin Ave­
nue, Los Angeles 36. 
BILL CLUNE now with Com Products Co.— 

successor to Best Foods Inc. in Argo, III. DON 
DRAPER recently moved from Elmhurst to Mt. 
Prospect, III. DICK HOSTEXY recently vacated 
Chicago and is now residing in I.aGrange, HI. 
DOC ART TUTELA now practicing medicine In 

Short Hills, New Jerse>'. His magnificent war 
record in the European Theatre as Division Battle 
Surgeon earned him the Purple Heart and Bronze 
Star. Son Rocco now a Junior at X.D.—second 
son. Art, Jr., a student at Farragut Academy, Toms 
River. X.J. 
GEORGE ROHRS and I visited with DOX 

WISE on his recent trip cast. Don is happily 
married to JACK FIXNER.\N'S widow (Peggy 
Brcnnan) and still practicing law in Joliet, III. 
George also reports that he recently met with 
GENE RAU, executive vice-prcs. of L. Rich Steers, 
engineers and contractors, at the opening of a 
facility in the east recently built by the Steers 
firm. 
At a meeting of Class Secretaries held in Xcw 

York in conjunction with a Regional Meeting of 
the X'ational Alumni Board, wc heard from an 
••upstate" correspondent that PETE COXXELLY 
was all set for tlie June 1963 Reunion. 
DON McCUE has recently been transferred from 

tlie Chevrolet oflicc in JancsviIIe, ^^*is., to become 
resident controller of the Chevrolet Engineering 
Center in Warren, Micli., where he lives with liis 
wife and three cliildren. Donald, Jr. will be a 
sophomore at Xotrc Dame next fall. 
JOE SWTTZER, who was at Notre Dame as a 

freshman in 1929 at Hou-atd Hall, writes that he 
is still with the Switzcr Licorice Company in St. 
Louis. Joe has four children including twin boj-s. 
Still one of the finest golfers in the midwest, he 
recently won the Senior Championship in the St. 
Louis area. 
JACK BREEN, x-isiting in Xe^v York from De­

troit, contacted us during his visit and said that 
he had canvassed the local Detroit men and thought 
the following would definitelv be at our 30tli 
Reunion: VIC SCHAEFFNER, ERNIE G.\RGARO, 
TED FELDMAN, JIM DALY, JERRY ASHLEY, 
BOB POWXLL and ED ACKERMAX. He also 
told us tliat FATHER DICK PARRISH, who for 
many years was editor of the "Michigan Catholic," 
the diocesan newspaper, had recently been made 
a Pastor in Port Huron. Father Parrish indicated 
he would be at tltc Reunion. 
BOB LEWIS, now located in Frankfort, Ind., 

has retired from tlie F.B.I, after a 20-year tour 
of service in \'arious parts of the countr>'. Bob is 
now an attorney with the Wabash Life Insurance 
Company in Indianapolis. 
BILL LYNCH, our faithful correspondent here in X«v York, rccendy heard from FRAXK McGEE, who lives in Bridgeport, Conn. Frank is now city tax assessor of Bridgeport, and is abo still active in his Venetian blind business. His daughter Cathy u-as recently graduated from Dunbarton College in Washington. 
JOHNNY RY.AN, who was vice-president and general counsel of Republic Axiation, in writing to Bill L>-nch, said that he sees TOM DOLAN fre­quently in New York. John's oldest boy, Roger, studied engineering at Xotrc Dame and recently received a degree from Adelpht Collgc. His younger son Tom graduated from Georgetown and is enter­ing law scliool in the fall. 
ED MAREK, writing from Cleveland, informs 

us that on June 10 the family had a triple gradua­
tion. Ed Jr. was graduated from Ohio University, 
his daughter Elaine from Miami Universily and 
his youngest son Robert from Solon High School, 
outside of Cleveland. Ed is still with the family 
funeral business — Frank J. Marek & Sons, Inc. 
DR. TOM MOORE Is now an Illinois rehabili­tation counselor in the Dirision of Vocational Re­habilitation. Tom had been practicing dentisti^­in the Bloomington, 111- area lor some 27 years before he went with the state. His son John will enter St. Louis University as a freshman this Fall. 
JOHN LEVSTIK is now living in Western Springs, 111., where he Is associated witli Chicago Bridge Sc Iron Company as an electrical engineer. 
CHARLIE CONLEY of Havertown, Pcnn., is 

38 Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 
MAURICE F. TOMBRAGEL, '35 From Wide Open Spaces to Space Satire 

When the delightful space satire, Afoon Pilot, recently shattered all box ofHce records at New York's Radio City Music Hall, it was only one more feather in the cap of cartoonist - turned - producer Walt Disney, whom actress Lillian Gish has seriously proposed for the Nobel Prize as a consistent creator of quality entertainment with a wholesome humanitarian message. But for screen and television writer Maurice Tom­bragel, '35, it was the artistic vindication of a decade spent grinding out the myths that feed our children's hero worship in the "wasteland" of TV Westerns. 
The brilliance of Maurie's comedy writing was hailed in the movie reviews, including a rare "rave" about Moon Pilot in usually acerb Time magazine: "Sacred cows, if skill­fully milked, produce tuns of fun; but Holly­wood usually avoids them because they often kick back. The more reason to be pleasantly surprised that Walt Disney, not specifically known for socio-political daring, should have herded three of these pampered critters — the FBI, the Air Force and the astonaut program — into the same plot. Under the 
handling the Piiiladelphia Club trip to the Michi­gan Slate-Noirc Dame game on October 20, 1962. Recently, FATHER JIM DONNELLY, C.S.C., visited with Jim. 
ED ECKERT and his wile, Caroline, recently were in Philadelphia to attend a convention and visited witli the Conleys. Cliarlic, in his usual cfHdent fashion, passed along the following infor­mation regarding a number of our classmates jn the Philadelphia area: JOHN F. KENNEY is an attorney with the local ofhce of the Travelers. He has a son attending Notre Dame. BILL BODO, who was at Notre Dame for several years, is now manager of one of the Prudential Insurance offices. HENRY CLm'ER lives in Broomall, Pa,, BOB FLINT practices law In Cudcrsport, Pa., and JOE FULLEM is Vice President of John B. White. Inc., local Philadelphia Ford dealers. CHARLIE RILEY lives in Lafayette Hill, Pa., and is active in Philadelphia Club affairs. LEO KEATING is still athletic director at the high school in Atlantic City. Charlie keeps In touch with BOB JOHN­STON, who lives In the Harrisburg area. TOM 
deft manipulation of . . . Scenarist Maurice 
Tombragel, they produce a fairly steady^* 
stream of healthy nonsense." 
Tombragel, who looks like a young Wil­

liam Faulkner at 49, is a native of Coving­
ton, Ky. He continued studies after gradu­
ation in medieval philosophy and edited the 
literary quarterly Scrip, forerunner of the 
present Juggler. Maurie entered the picture 
business as a reader (now called "stor>* 
analyst") for Universal Pictures in late 1936, 
got a break a few years later as a "story 
developer" working with a producer of 
"action" films. He has been writing profes--. 
sionally ever since. ' ­
He sharpened his craft writing "B" (low budget) pictures for Universal, Columbia and RKO — with long stretches between assignments — until World War II brought him a brief career as a civilian writer of .\miy training films: then two years as a Nav)' seaman in the Pacific, from the Coast to Hawaii, Guam and China; and a post-discharge assignment writing Na\y documen­tary films. He had Just settled down to screen writing at Columbia when the bottom fell out of the motion picture business in ^ 1948. ' • 
Things were tough for writers until 1952, when a booming tele\'ision industr>'*s in­satiable demand for story material sent them mining the legends of the West. With plenty of experience in this genre, Afaurie endeared himself to small fry with "about 50 Wild Bill Hickocks, 21 Stories of the Century, a dozen Frontier Doctors, assorted Frontier Marshals and Wyatt Earps, many, many Jim Bowies and Bat Mastersons" and a host of other memorable blood-and-thun­ders. It was, he says, "a pretty good way to make a living." He went to Disney in ^ 1958 on a one-picture T\'' deal and has ^ been there ever since. After two years of scripting Disney's Elfego Baca and Texas John Slaughter he did a comedy Slaughter which won him the job of adapting Moon Pilot from a Saturday Evening Post serial. Since then he has completed Escapade in Florence and Johann Strauss, Jr., two-part, one-hour shows for the 1962-63 TV season, and he js currently working on a monc comedy based on a novel called The Mon­keys. ^ 
Maurie and his wife Yvonne were married in 1940 and have two grown daughters: Ann, married and a graduate of the Uni­versity of Oregon: and Julie, a sophomore at the University of Portland. 
BLISARD, JR., is living in the Philadelphia area and JACK REILLY in nearby Haddonficid, X.J. 
.After ten years with the Ford Motor Company In .Arlington, Mass., as the plant Industrial physi­cian, BOB DONOVAN is nou* practicing medicine In the Ariington area. DAVE POWERS \-isits Bob frequently when he is in the Boston area. Bob has two daughters at St. Mar>-'s at Notre Dame and three bo\-s who are still in scIiool In the Arlington area. ^ 
From the .Alumni OiHcc: 
REV. PADRE INOCENaO STACCO, S.O. Cist., wrote from Bolivia that he has been trans­fered from .Apolo (Caupollcan) to Puerto .Acosta (Camacho). The full address is Parroquia, Puerto Acou (Camacho), Bolma, S.A. The ALUMNUS, he wrote, "is precious reading, not only for the university news, but also for the only news receive of Holy Cross priests and brothers with whom I had lived happily many years . . -and ^ of course, I am still interested in news of Notrfl^ Dame lay graduates." 
1934 
T. Edward Carry 223 Elmwood Rd. Rocky River 16» Ohio 

From ihe /Uumni Office: 
Former scribe ED MANSFIELD, again on the mnvf after being silent for a while, continues to help the column. Ed sent in a clipping on Stamford, Conn., Jfayor J. WALTER KENNEDY (journaUsin major, N. D. sports publicist during 
W.W. If, p.r. man, sportscaster with Ted Husing. world traveler with the Harlem Globe Trotters, etc.). who has extended his activities in the political ^arcna. Walt is directing the senatorial campaign 
"of former Welfare Secretary .Abraham RibicofT, who appointed him campaign managi-r in Julv. 
ERNEST E. .MASSLMINE lias been' appointed manager of Colombian operations for the Texas Petroleum, a 5ubsidiar\- of Texaco Inc. Deputy manager since Januar>- of last year, he will con­tinue to make his headquarters in Bogota. Ernie joined the company in 1938, and since 1942 be has headed various division<: in Colombia. Venezuela and Peru. 
1935 
Franklyn Hochrcitcr 
702 Scarlet Dr. 
Toivson 4, Maryland 

It's been a long time between column^, and for this we arc most apolngciic! One very real reason for our silence lias been the dearth of news from the many fronts on %vblch the Class of '33 operates. From time to time a note came through but by the time deadline rolled around, it was pretty old stuff. Of course, wc expect that if we bad given a needle now and then wc might have stimulated some rc­
sponse. This will he our approach from here on in, 
• to '65. May wc put in a perMinal word before we get to Class neu-s. Wc would like to make public acknowl­edgement of the wonderful tribute the Editor and the .-Vlumni /Vssociatlon paid to my wife in this col­umn a few* months ago. At the time of her death In January hundreds of letters, Mass cards and con­tributions to the Maryland Society fur Mentally Retarded Children were received. But no statement, gesture or word quite touched the four remaining '•Hochs" as did that beautiful thought embodied in the publication of Clara Ann's obItuar\- and our two letters to the University. She felt almost as close to Notre Dame as wc do, and this final encomium made her very happy, we know. For this tribute, 
^an d all your prayers, Masses and notes, which came from around the world, Judy, Claudia, Chris and '"Hoch" are very humbly grateful. 
And so, to the living and their plans for a thlrtv­year Reunion in 1965! D.\N YOUNCERMAN's July 13 letter is the first "big gun" to be brought up. Last October he sent out a ''fcvlcr" and il brought 43 responses. You all got a list of those men who want to be counted carlv for '65. WERE YOU ANfO.VG THEM? 
The "early birds" made their contributions to the kitty tor our Thirtieth — some $3.00 for one year, others $15.00 for the five years and still more came through with handsome stipends beyond the call of need. Three dollars a year for five years Is certainly a small amount to assure that the Clxss of '35 will maintain its position In front of the pack. So, how about it, men? 
You do not even have to spend 4 cents lo file your contribution for our 1965 Reunion — j'ust use 
^th c business reply envelope which came with Dan's letter. You've misplaced it? Well, look around — you'll find it! Get It off with vour check made pay­able to NOTRE D.\.ME CLASS OF 1935 and ED SMITH will send you a vcr>' jazzy card acknowledg­ing your financial partidpatlon in our big 30! AND SEND IT TODAY BEFORE YOU FORGET AGAIN!!! While we are on the subject, a word of congratu­lations to DAN VOUNGERMAN on his move to New England as Director of Furcliasing and Traflic 
^o r the Raytheon Co. Now he will know how JIM ^HAMILTON felt running Reunion plans by long distance. 
How are we gohig to operate for the 1965 revels? 
Well, late In April ED SMITH sent the officers 
IBM alphabetical and state-oriented mailing lists. 
On June 29, Dan sent each of the officers two cop­
ies of an area map from which the four Vice-
Presidents could determine the specific boundaries 
of their areas. This was to facilitate their use of 
the state-oriented mailing lists. 
Dan's letter to all the class came out the middle 
of July. The Veeps have been asked lo start con­
tacting their area classmates 30 to 60 days after 
you received Dan's letter, particularly those not on 
the contribution list to date. TliIs means that by the 
time you read this In the ALUMNUS you should be 
receiving a communication from vour area Veep. 
THIS IS THE TIME TO BRING THE CUVSS 
TREASURY UP TO THE FLOOD LINE! BUT, it 
is also the time to start plannint; vour own personal 
life to make sure that YOU WILL BE THERE IN 
'65! Talk It up. write It up. think It up! For some 
of us there will not be a ihirtv-fifth, so let's all 
think POSrriVE for the Thirtieth! 
How about the $18,000,000 Challenge Program? 
Have YOU participated in the biggest venture in 
Notre Dame's history? The report we received at 
the end of July showed us 92% complete after a 
two-year effort In conjunction with the Ford Foun­
dation's "Special Program In Education." 
Five universities were originally chosen by Ford for Its dramatic matching gifts program. One of them. Johns Hopkins right here in our home town, has already "lopped" its goal. How soon Notre Dame will meet its challenge depends heavily on each of us who claim her as our Alma Mater. With $1,456,664 to go to make our goal, each of us should seriously examine our conscience, our estate plan­ning, our family budget (especially that which wc spend for club memberships, weekly bridge and poker and liquor), and then in cold blood decide if Wc have given enough to our University in this tremendous opportunity for Catholic education. 
You note tliat we do not raise the question as to whether wc arc counted among the contributors. SURELY NO MAN OF '35 IS ABSE-\T FROM THE ROSTER OF DONORS. Notre Dame gave us. and continues to give us In our dally lives through identification, much! What have we given in return? 
Tliere arc '35crs in key positions in the Chal­lenge Program. Here they arc as we know them: PHIL PURCELL In both Special Gifts and General Appeal in Utah; BILL SCHRODER, Special Gifts In Atlanta; TONY CROWLEY, Special Gifts In Evansvillc; BILL BURKHARDT, Special Gifts In .\kron and Canton; JOHN NEESOX, Special Gifts in Philadelphia; BOB LEE, General Appeal in New-Haven and JIM SHEILS, General Appeal In New York City. 
Early In July we received a letter from CHARLIE DEDERICH in Santa Monica, California. Charlie seems to have fallen off the mailing list along the way (an unfortunate circumstance we plan to cor­rect Immediately), and said he had recently seen a June '61 issue of the ALUMNUS In which we mentioned his "Infant experiment." An experiment 
Sl^'^ 

COL. FRANCIS SAMPSON, '37 (left), chaplain of U.S. Continental Amiy Com­mand and "Parachutin" Padre of W. 
W. II-Korea fame, was doubles and singles tennis champ again at Fort Monroe, Va., posing with the post commander and his doubles partner, runner-up in singles finals. (U.S. Army photograph by Sgt. L. B. Stamcs) 
which made Life magxdnc on March 9, 1962, In a fourteen page spread is no **infant" In our book. Possibly some of you recognbed your classmate 
— CHUCK DEDERICH — on the pages of Life which told the story of Synanon House in Santa Monica. An AA Alumnus, Chuck started his pro­ject in 1958 In the hope that he could do for drug addicts what AA had done for alcoholics. He sees in Synanon a "tunnel back into the human race." 'Where did S>'nanon come from? A scrambl­ing of the words "symposium" and "anonymous" by an addict gave it birth. 
Chuck sent us a large amount of literature — reprints mostly — about his project. Wc wish we could give it all to you here, but that is Impos­sible. IT NL\KES FASCINATING READING! They are about to start shooting a Columbia Pictures stor>' of Synanon House In the fall with the hope it may fare well In the Academy A^vard race. How-do we feel about Chuck Dederich? Here Is, Ii\*ing proof that one of us is doing a great deal to help his fellow humans. The world could use a few-more Dederlchs! Good luck. Chuck, and thank you! 
That's it 'til the next time, gang. And, how about helping us keep the words rolling? 
From the .-Mumni OfHce: 
THO.MAS J. MILS of Hialeah, Fla., has been named associate editor of the Florida Grocer, a trade publication of the food industry. He was managing editor of the Tampa Advocate, assistant managing editor of the Lakeland Ledger, city editor for Pompano Beach Town News and assistant news editor of the Tampa Times. .A member of the National Writers Club, he has done much free­lancing for trade magazines and once operated a grocery- in New York. 
Tom Is a Boy Scout commissioner and South Florida publicity chairman; member of the Hialcah Elks and Tennis Club, Tra\'el Club of .America. Miami N.D. Club, New York and Virginia press associations. Formerly secretary of the New Haven. Conn.. N.D. Club, he was named N.D. Man of the Year in 1958; won stations from the New-Haven Elks In 1958 and the Pompano Beach (Fla.) Elks in 1960. 
Since late April WILLUM F. RYAN has been assistant vice-president of South Bend's Associates Investment Co. In addition to his duties as assis­tant secretary. With the company 27 years. Bill has ser\'ed in real estate and accounting operations. He is manager of the real estate and corporate insurance department. 
The first council of the Knights of Columbus was Instituted recently In Honolulu under the di­rection of THOM.AS W. FLYNN. The Our Lady of Peace Council, named after the first Catholic church in the Islands, had more than 120 in Its first class. Tom was elected grand knight of the council. 
G. ALBERT LAWTON was among the Catholic lavmen of Atlanta, Ga., who endorsed the de­cision of Archbishop PAUL J. HALLINAN, '32. to desegregate the parochial schools of the arch­diocese. Al, president of Georgia International Life Insurance Co., said he not only supported the ac­tion but considered it "something long overdue." 
1936 
Joseph J. Waldroa 70 Black Rock Road Yardlcy, Pennsyhraiiia 

LARRY PALCOVIC, as usual, sends news of 
classmates: "ANDY HUFNAGEL, In charge of 
Social Security office in Gloversvillc, N.Y., has been 
transferred to Freeport, Long Island. Will miss 
him as he tvas the only other '36er in these parts. 
Saw FRED GABRIEL in Dalton, Mass., over a 
week end. Fred is in charge of radiology at General 
Hospital in Pittsfield. He has seven children. I plan 
to look up CY CONNORS in Northampton and 
NICK TANCREDI in Saratoga Springs one of 
these days." 
GEORGE CANNON, the father of lots of girls, 
celebrated the arri^-al of a boy earlier this year. 
The "Silver Fox" is the head of Cannon Company, 
producer of the alloy used on the akin of the astro­
nauts' space capsules. A smalt but fonnldible array 
of talent \«'as organized a few years ^ o to ac­
complish this great job. George really should be 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 39 
Class Sccrctar>' as no one in our class meets so many classmates in his travels, and actually goes out of his way to renew these irontacts. 
Understand that RALPH CARDINAL and MIKE TACHLY were back for the *37 Reunion in June. Saw JOHN MORAN in Princeton. X.J. where he has lived while acting as a field representative for a national housing concern. 
From the Alumni Office: DR. GEORGE M. \VOLF, who stayed on the campus for M.S. ('39) and Ph.D. (MO) degrees in chemical engineering and organic chemistr>% has joined Ford Motor Company as manager of the newly established body materials engineering de­partment at the Ford Research and Engineering Center, evaluating metals, rubber, plastics and chemicals used in Ford products. Previously he had conducted rubber clicmicals and plastics research for Libby-Owens-Ford, Sliarplcs Chemicals, and General Tire and Rubber Co. He has been active in several professional societies. Married, he lives in Bloomficid Hills, Mich. 
THOMAS J. TRRAC\', who has been with Merck & Co.. Inc., since graduation, is now director of operations for the Quinton Company, nciv Merck consumer products division. Formerly sales and marketing director for the ^fcrck Chemical DIW­sion, Tom is responsible for production and dis­tribution of sucli consumer products as throat lozenges, mouthwash, antiseptics, insecticides and prescr\"ati\'cs. 
1937 
Joseph P. Quinn P.O. Box 275 Lake Lcnapc Andovcr, New Jersey 

From the Alumni Office: 
Secretary' JOE QVISS is still sleeping off the whopping Silver Jubilee Reunion, so ^ve can't be sure of the authenticity of the rumor that the following officers were returned to office by acclama­tion because somebody forgot to tell them the>* had been elected five vcars ago: JEROME CLAEYS, JR., president; AVTLLLAM H. F.\LLON, Eastern vice-president; WILFRED B. KIRK, Southern V-P; an . (BUCKY) JORD.AX, Midwest V-P; ALBERT 
J. SCHWARTZ, Western V-P; and ROBERT C. WEA\TR, treasurer. 
Thanks to Chairman JERRY CLAEYS, the com­mittee and other w*orkcrs shown in the last issue, and the cast of thousands. 
September 8 was the date of a big Hollx'wood testimonial dinner lor REV. P.YTRICK PEYTON, C^.C. .Actor Jack Hale>- u-as general chairman, assisted by Irene Dunne, Louella Parsons, Rosalind Rtissell and Lorctta Young as co-chairmen and Danny Thomas as master of ceremonies. Tlic com­mittee included practically cver>- HolIy\*'ood star but Mickej- Mouse. 
JOHN E. BRASSELL has been appointed manager of stores, shop and equipment in Notre Dame's department of chemistry. Since graduation John has worked for Bendbc Products, Curliss-Wright, IT & T and the U.S. Ka\y. He has been a busi­ness consultant in South Bend since 1961. 
REV. FR.ANCIS S.\MPSON, a colonel and U.S. Continental .Army Command chaplain, has won the Fort Monroe, Va., tennis championships in doubles and singles for the fourth straight year. The \-ic­
tor>' in July renewed one of several tennis cro\*'ns taken by the "parachuting padre." 
1938 
Bumie Bauer 
1139 Western Avenue 
South Bend 25, Ind. 

If we have as much fun at our Silver Anniver­sary reunion next June as the Class of '37 did this year it would be a crime for anyone to miss it. I stopped out one evening at the '37 reunion for % sneak preview and a toast or two. Even U you don't like toast, you'll like the rest of what is being planned for us next June. So start making 
40 Notre Dame Alumnus^ October, 1962 
THOMAS E. CASSIDY, '37 For Popular Prof, PlaudiU & Pulchritude 
The "Great Teacher" award, annual tribute to the Southern Illinois University faculty from members of the University Alumni Association, was announced during Alumni Day, held in June on the Carbon­dale campus. This year's recipient is Thomas 
E. Cassidy, lecturer in the department of English. Voted earlier by SIU students as "Most Popular Professor," Tom won out over half a dozen other candidates in special balloting during campus-wide student elec­tions. He received recognition of more than 300 alumni attending the banquet and a check for $1,000. An earlier and even more welcome honor was being pictured in the midst of twenty lovely bathing-suited candi­dates for "Miss Southern." 
A native of Kings Park, Long Island, N.Y., Tom Cassidy has been on the SIU facult\* since the fall of 1958. He received his bachelor and master's degrees from Notre Dame and has done further work at Harvard and Columbia. Before coming to Southern he was associated with the facul­ties of St. John^s in Minnesota, Notre Dame, Wisconsin State College and Fordham. Dur­ing World War II he enlisted in 1942 as a private in the U.S. .\rmy and was dis­charged in 1946 with the rank of major. He served with the Third .A.rmored Division in Europe and was decorated by the govern­ments of United States. Britain, France and Belgium. 
On the Carbondale campus he has taught English composition and grammar, fiction and introduction to drama. He has taught extension classes at Anna-Jonesboro, Flora, and M t Vernon and special courses for prisoners at Menard State Penitentiary. 
Tom ser\*ed as facult>' adviser to the Stu­dent Council from 1959 until 1961, as a resident adviser to Tau Kappa Epsilon from 1959 to 1961 and as residence halls cotmcil ad\dser during the 1961-62 school year. In spite of obvious local blandishments^ he was still unmarried at last report. 
your plans to return next Spring for our 25th class 
reunion. ^ 
DR. "RIGGIE" DI BRIENZA writes, "Will I be ^ 
at the 25th? — you can bet your boots on that. 
. . . Afost likelv I uill fly down wth CAS VANCE 
and "BIG GENE" SMITH (another M.C. from 
Brooklyn). Wc also expect GENE DOLAN, JOE 
CALLAHAN and DICK MOLLER to join us." 
Riggie also sa>^, "A% regards m>*sclf. S\vede. 
have a rather happy medical practice here in Bay 
Ridge (his address is 416 74th St., Brooklyn 9, 
X.Y.) — married the former Ann Wcinschreider (a 
nurse — what else!) and have two bo\-s, Robert, 18, 
and William. 15. Robert just completed his first year 
at Dayton U. (Ohio) and William is finishing sec­
ond year at Xaverian H.S. in BrooklvTi. IVe man­
aged to become President of our local medical so­
ciety (the Bay Ridge medical) and also president^ 
of our clwc organization — the Bay Ridge Com-" 
munity Council. Its been fun, interesting and above 
all satisfying. I have no specialty as regards 
medicine—and am considered one of those 'family 
doctors' that still do exist.*' 
DON HICKEY was in California visiting his 
wife's family in July. He talked to GENE VAS­
LETT who is planning on being at our reunion 
as is JOE RUETZ with whom Don had lunch. 
ED BOYLE, fellow Swede from Minnesota, with the FBI since leaving N.D., wrote from Phoenix, Arizona, where he is Special Agent in charge, about two splendid addresses he heard from FRANK LF^AHY and FATHER W.ALSH at a Notre Dame club meeting in Phoenix and also about BILL MAHONEY being appointed Ambassador to Ghana^ (co\-ercd last issue). Ed and wife Helene have two ^ boys and two girls. One boy is in the Air Force and other attends Arizona State. One daughter is married and Ii\*ing in California while their young­est girl starts high school this fall. 
JERRY KANE didn't promise to attend the reunion for sure, but sent us a nice invitation to \-isit him ^vhcn we got to Seattle for the Fair. Jerry sa>-s he sau' CHARLIE OSBORN at Universal 
N.D. night and that there are around 25 N.D. men employed in the Transport Division of the Boeing Company where Jerr>' is manager of export sales. Jerry took his wife Katie along with him on a trip to India, £g>-pt, Athens, Gcne\'a, Copen­hagen, Amsterdam, New York and Washington last spring, combining business and pleasure. In Pakistan the>- were Just a day behind Jackie Kennedy. Tlieir eldest daughter Erin took care of the family. Erin is a Junior at Seattle U; son^ Christopher in his fifth year at St. Edward's Sem­inary; Mary Patriwa starts high school this year, and eight-year-old Sheila starts the third grade. The Kancs entertain foreign guests from all parts of the world who come to look at the Boeing jets so may be able to survive the Bauer clan of 11 when wc liit Seattle. 
CHUCK BOROWSKI, our baseball captain at N.D., ended another career as captain this sum­mer when he resigned as captain of the South Bend police department to become assistant proba­tion officer for St. Joseph County. 
Tlierc'll be another Burnie Bauer at N.D. this year; only he will not be a Swede. He's my son, Burnett Patrick, a true Hoosicr who is starting A his Freshman year. 
FATHER JOHN F. ANTON, who was ordained April 7th at the Cathedral Church of St. John Lateran in Rome, said a Solemn Mass of Thanks­ginng June 30th at St. Philip Ncri Church in Chicago with a reception afterwards. Perhaps Father Jack and FATHER JOE RACE can say a solemn High Mass for us at the reunion. 
The death of LEO R. BOYLE last May 20th \%-as a shock to all of us. According to Leo's wife, the former Vera Przybysz of South Bend, Leo had been feeling ill for about six months and was scheduled to go into Presbyterian-St. Luke's hos­pital for a check-up Sunday afternoon when he had a sudden heart attack that morning at 9 .A.M. Leo had been Avorking regularly up to that time as trust officer of the Calumet National Bank, a post he assumed six years ago after coming from a similar position at tfie First Bank in South Bcnd.^ Besides his wife Vera, Leo left a son, Terrcncc,^; who is a Senior at Notre Dame this year in prc­med, and a daughter, Dulo* who is a Junior in Andrean H.S. in Gar>-. Leo worked first in the Bendix legal department after getting his law degree at N.D. in IWl before going to First Bank. They lived close to CHUCK S^VEENEY while in South Bend. His family will continue to reside at 223 Be\-crly Street, Monster, Indiana, which is right on the Illinois state line. A mass was said for Leo on June 2nd at Notre Dame by Father Thomas J. O'Donnell. Let us remember Leo^. along with our other departed classmates in ouiV' prayers and masses. 
From the Alumni Office: 
9 THOMAS P. HEALY lias been named associate director of information for the National Labor Relations Board. Tom's background includes 24 years as a reporter and editor, for the past nine years as staff editor of Daily Labor Report and earlier as associate editor of Telecommunication Reports. He was a reporter for the New York City News Association and for Broadcasting Maga­zine and was associated with the Communications Workers of America. An Air Force vet, Tom lives in Chc\y Chase, Nfd., with ^f^s. Healy and four daughters. After a youth on the "fringe of dc­linqucno"" in New Haven and a student career as a rebel in the sociolog>* department at Notre Dame, JA^tES EDWARD McCARTHY is well qualified to be administrative director of President 
A Kennedy's Nfobilizaiion for Youth program, ac­cording to a "man in the news" proBle entitled *'Street-Gang Graduate'* in the New York Times. A veteran of Catliolic Charities and the New York Welfare Council, Jim is famous for having infiltrated and tamed the worst street gangs in Ilarlcm. He's married to the former Mar>' Agnes Crcpeau of South Bend. 
FAUSTLV J. (JACK) SOLON, JR., of Toledo, O., is now assistant director of advertising and public relations for Johns-Manx'illc Corp. Jack has been head of his own public relations firm, Solon .•\ssociatcs, in Toledo. With classmate FRANCIS 
H. MAY, JR., he was formerly an officer of To­ledo's Glass Fibers, Inc., which eventually merged with Libby-Owens-Ford and then Johns-Manville. ^ After grad study at the U. of PennsyK-ania's 
^ Wharton School of Business he was a radio news­caster in Philadelphia, New York and Toledo before working in sales and advertising for .Ameri­can Home Products Corp. Tom and wife Ginnic have moved to Wcstport, Conn., with their four children, Kristina, Deborah, Stephen and Scott. EWDIN T. KILRAIN is now general director>' manager for Indiana Bell Telephone in Indianapolis, back in Indiana after 14 months as a marketing staffer witli American Tel. & Tel. in New York. Former tennis captain Kilrain has been in the telephone business since graduation. £d and wife Colleen live at 6703 Farmleigh Drive, Indianapolis, with four children, E. Thomas, James, Kathleen and Kellie. 
In spite of last issue's feature on Ambassador 

BILL MAHONEY, the Class was shortchanged 
tk by not getting equal space with JLM ARMSTRONG 
^ (president of college alumni) for FATHER HES­BURGH (president of college presidents) and his latest honors from M.I.T., Indiana U. and Brandcis. 
1939 
James N. Motschall 
Singer-Motschall Crp. 10090 West Chicago 
Detroit 4, Michigan 

Perhaps wc shall meet on campus tills fall dur­ing the football season. In the meantime I sure would like hearing from you. 
JOSEPH A. JUDGE is a social worker in Troy, 

N.Y. His wife, Grace and he have four children. Joe is planning on attending the 25tli Reunion in 1964. EDWIN J. HUGHES, JR., writes me from Northbrook, III., where he lives with his wife and four children. Edwin is in the Advertising Space Sales business and would love to hear from some '39crs. 
TOM ROCHE is manager of the Columbus, O., ofGcc of Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. His wife, Mary 
^ Virginia and he have six cliildren. Tom would 
V tike to hear from BERNIE FEENEY and BILL 
HERRICK. JOSEPH HARRINGTON, of Panama City, Pan­ama, is manager of Pfizer Corp. He and his wife, GIad>'5, have five children. Joe would like to hear from JOHN WINTERMEYER, BOB PICK and JACK SULLIVAN (J.J.) JR. and would welcome any N.D. men visiting Panama. PHIL NORTH writes to me from Fort Worth, Tex., where he is a ne^vspapcrman with tlic Fort Worth Star-Tele­gram. Phil was last on campus for the 20th re-P union and will be seeing evcr^'one again at the 25th Reunion. 
ROME — Irish at the Scoglio on March 17 included (seated, I.-r.) Phil Finn, director of the Rome USO Club; Mrs. Maurice Tombragel, Mrs. Bucky O'Connor; Bucky, '31; Vince McAloon, '34, Rome Club secretary; Joe Broussard 11, '41; Hugh Murphy, '59; Maurie Tombragel, '33 (see Spotlight Alumnus); and Mrs. Finn. Neapolitan leprechaun at right is unidentified. (Photo by G. Baldrati, Italncws) 
D.ANIEL M. MURPHY, M.D., is a Industrial Physician in Marion. Dan would like to hear from AL KIEFER, DON DIE-NFEY and BART COLE. THO^LAS P. FOYE is an attorney in Manhattan Beach, Calif., where he lives with his wife, Kath­leen, and five children. Tom has been in contact with CARL RAUSCH, JACK PROPECK, PAT SHE.\ and TO.M KxVLNLAN. 
R. J. (BOB) GALLVGHER, writes to me from Boulder, Colorado where he is a consulting engineer. He and his wife Leah have four children. Bob is a member of the Denver Notre Dame Club and would like to hear from ALFONSO URIBE, BILL MURR.\Y, FRANK PFAFF, TOM B.\R­NETT and FR.\NK FRANSIOLI. 
JAMES JERRY GREEN is manager of the Bendbc Corp. in Nilcs, Mich., where he lives with his wife Stella and son, Jim Jr. (class of '69), and daughter, Corlnne Ann (1st co-ed. class of '71). CHARLES CARROLL lives in Danville, Pa., where he is the operations manager of Electronic Chemi­cals Div.. Merck & Co., Inc. Charles is the proud father of six children. The last time he was on campus u'as in 1946, and he would love to hear from anyone. 
ILXROLD A. GOTTSACKER of Sheboygan, Wis., is in the insurance and investments business. Harold thought he held the class record for children, having nine, but after talking to DON O'MELIA in Milwaukee he realized Don has beat him out by two. Hx\RRY KAISER writes to us from Eau Claire, Wis., where he is vice-president of .Ameri­can National Bank and Trust Co. His wife and he arc the proud parents of three children. Harry would like to hear from anyone who will take a moment to write the world's worst correspondent. 
JOSEPH A. NORDONE lives in Aurora, III., where he is teacher-coach at Marmion Military* Academy. He and liis ^vIfe, Mar>- L., have five children. Last time Joe was on campus was for the October, November football games in 1960. 
J. R. PAT GORMAN is a lawyer in Washing­ton, D.C. He and his wife, Marge, have four children. Pat and PAUL D.VY have opened an Advertising and Public Relations Office in Wash­ington. They now have offices in Miami, Ft. Lauderdale, Washington, New York and Los An­geles. JIM McGOLDRICK is an Attorney in New York City. Jim writes me he had a gay St. Patrick's Day in New York with DAVE MESKILL and JULES TO.NSMIERE. Dave MesklU left the following day on a Mediterranean Cruise. (Dave is class Treasurer.) 
DR. RICH/VRD A. GANSER writes me from Mishawaka, Ind., where he is an M.D. and health officer of the cit>'. He would like to hear from DR. CHET GAJEWSKI and DR. AL DENTON. 
WILLIAM L. PIEDMONT is the director, Co­lumbian Squires Div.^ K. of C. Supreme counol in New Haven, Conn. He and his wife Agatha have seven cliildren. One son, John, is a fresh­man at N.D. and a second son Is a frcshman-to-bc. 
Bill would like to hear from JOHN LYNAUGH, AUGIE BOSSU, ART PHILUPS, and PAUL McCORAUCK. FREDERICK W. HONERKAMP is in business for himself, ply^vood and allied products, in Douglaston, N.Y. Fred writes he has stopped by several times to visit GEORGE 0*NEIL, and apparently business for George is good — he is alwa>'5 on \'acation. J. J. HIEGEL is an Engineer In Salem, O., where he lives with his wife Helen and SK children, Joe Jr., Kathy, Nfary, Bob, Peggy and Larr>*. J. J. was last on campus in the fall of '60. 
MAX BURNELL Is athletic director and head football coach at St. George High School in E\'ans­ton. 111., where he lives with his wife Kaye and two children. Max writes his son. Max Jr., is now playing end for the U. of N.D. He made his monogram as a sophomore last fall and now is a junior with one more vcar to go. Max would like to hear from EARL BROWN, EMMETT GROOVE and PAUL KELL. 
Last week I had a pleasant surprise with a ^*isit from BERNARD J. FEENEY. Bernard is a real estate broker in Miami, Fla., where he lives with his wife Adeline and eight children, seven girls and a baby boy. For the past few months Bernard has been traveling around the country visiting many of his classmates such as CHUCK BENNETT, LOU CASEY, DR. FRANK KELLY, PAT GORMAN. DICK O'.MELLA, WALT SHORT, etc Good luck on your newest venture, Bernle. 
Better start making plans for our 2ath. Will be contacting the officers this fall for a meeting on campus to discuss the plans. 
From the Alumni Office; It's hoped that everybody saw the news of two classmates In the last Issue: on page 9 was a story on EDWIN O'CONNOR, author of "The Oracle," "Benjy," and "The Last Hurrah," who won the 1962 Pulitzer Prize for fiction with his great novel, "Tlie Edge of Sadness," about a priest and an Irish-American family; and on page 30 was the news that JOSEPH E. HANN.AN, Wce-prcsIdent and secretary of American Bank & Trust Co., was named 1962 Notre Dame Man of the Year of the St. Joseph Valley N.D. Club. Army National Guard Major D.\VID H. FOS­SELMAN, a sociology professor at the U. of Port­land, spent tlie summer In a nice cool environment, completing mountain and glacier training at the EkIutna Training Area, Fort Richardson, .Alaska. Dave, who got his doctorate at Catholic U., studied mountain and glacier climbing as a member of the 4Ist Division's 162nd Infantry, a Portland National Guard unit. PAUL R. WADDELL has teamed with two former Young & Rublcam associates in Smock, Debnan & Waddell Agency in the Statler Center Bldg., Los Angeles. Paul, wife Lois and two chil« dren live at 8499 Green Lane, La Canada, Calif. FATHER JOE RACE was deacon at the "Dea­
iVo(r« Dame Alumnus, Octobtr^ 1962 41 
conV Mass. CHARLEY BOROWSKl and wlli­EvcK-n attendwi from South Bend, BUD SHER­WOOD from Flint. Midi.; JOHN O'CONNOR from Indianapolis, SCOTT RE.\RDON from Sioux FalU, S. Dai., JOHN BEER, BILL CLIFFORD, JOHN FRANCIS, DAN GIBBS, TOM JORD.W, BOB McGRATH, JOE ZttTRS, FR.\NCIS J. O'LAUGHLIN and LE.V SKOGLUND. 
1940 
James G. Brow-n 
144 East 44th Street 
New York, N. Y. 
Fur budgetary rea!-(in> we have recently been advised to consolidate our columns 3*^ mudi as pos­sible. Received a prolific questionnaire from JIM BARRETT, who tells all after prodding by his wife for months. Jim is married, has three children and has been with tlic F.B.I, since 1947. He is now based in Baltimore and Iiopes to stay there with the Colts and the Orioles. Jim would like to hear from DA\ ^ BERX.^RD. Have a fine note from JIM MONTEDOMCO, xvho is a field repre­sentative for tile Illinois State Lib^ar^• system. Jim is still a bacliclor and is presently going back to sdiool to secure his master's degree in Librarv-Science. He reports that one of the really long lost brethren of '40. one Jl.\t McROBERTS, is working and living in Aurora. Illinois. (Patcrno. Rogers please note.) W'c would sure like to hear from NtcRobcits. ^lonU'donico gets back to school frequently for a few football games each fall. He mentions hawng seen DORSEYM.\THIS and TOM BROWNING in Battle Creek. Have an interest­ing and unsolicited (no questionnaJte or anything) letter from VINCE McNUHOX, who attended school as a freshman and now resido in Detroit. Vincc recently spent some time with BILL 0'H.ARE, who is now a professor at the Univ. of Mass. in political science and special advisor to the Kennedy Family. ^IcMahon puts in a plug for wife attend­ance at the ne.\t reunion and suggests a big affair 
at the Palais Royale just for old times' sake. Will close ^vith a request for a few prayers for J.ACK REDDY, who passed away recently. 
1941 
James F. Spellman 7 East 42nd Street New York 17, N. Y. 
Summer's Greetings (in October)! Your scribe had hoped to hear from many of you alumni, but only JOHNNY SIEVERT tame across with a welcome letter. Johnny's letterhead reads "JOHN W. SIEVERT .\.I.D., Interior De­sign Consultant, 3620 Pacific Street, Omaha 5. Nebraska." Also, his question as to dues is ap­propriate, as I have a bill all ready to mail to thi­class. The five dollars that you rcunionitcs kicked in at our I9SI shindig was to pay for the extra costs incurred at the reunion, and to get the clas". fund under way. Wc have tlic same $394 in the treasury that 1 reported some lime ago. Johnny says further that he only recently started in busi­ness. Our very best wishes to you. John. He mentions seeing GEORGE R.\SS.AS and wife Fran at 58 Woodley Road, Winnelka, 111., verv- frequently. VINNIE STOSATO bumped into me just this weckj and lo and behold, he is directly across the street from me. His business card reads, **VIN­CENT R. SPOSATO, Fischbach-McCoach & Asso­oates, Inu., Management ConsullanLs. 30 East 42nd St., New York 17, N.Y." I'll sec much of Vinnie. from here on. 
Our esteemed AL PERRINE now heads the Foundation in New York. M has been most helpful to me on class matters; and acting as liaison be­tween the campus and this office. AVc are collabo­rating on setting up a national board of directors for our 25th reunion. Our hope is to have the biggest and best turnout ever. So, start planning on it now, and put away the necessary cash to finance it. Meeting otiiers in the class, some for the first time since graduation, is a truly wonder­ful experience; and all of us receive a great spiritual lift at \-isiting the c:ampus and the Grotto. More 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, October^ 1962 
MAJOR WM. P. FITZGERALD, 
USMCR, '42 (center), directs two of his NCO's during; Operation Trident, Mannc Corps training exercises at Camp Lejcune, N.C. Reservist Fitzgerald is back from stminicr field training now as a chemical executive in Florham Park, NJ. (Official U.S. Marine Corps photo, 
A. S. Gclb) 
about the 25ih Reunion in subsequent issues of the ALUMNUS. 
Keep your secrclar>' posted with canis or letters. Tr>* to get them to me before October I5th, so we can have a really big column in the December 
From the Alumni Office: 
DR. RICHARD E. BALL, who followed up his bachelor's degree with a doctorate in '55, is co­author of a new introductory* business administra­tion text, published by Allyn & Bacon, Inc. Dick, a former faculty mtmber at N.D. and Michigan State, is now professor and chairman of ihc de­partment of finance in the University of Cincinnati's College of Business Administration. He is responsi­ble for eight cliapters of the book, including one on "Ethics and NIorality in Business Management." Congratulations, Professor. 
EDWARD H. CARSON was elected president of Tobin Packing Co., Inc., in July. He has been executive 'vicc-presidcnt, director of the company, and manager of the Tobin Rochester plant. A native of Rochester, N.Y., he has been associated with Tobin for 24 years. Ed and his wife Mar>­and four children live at 567 Bcah .-Vve., Rochester. 
1942 
WiUiam M. Hickey 3333 West 47th Place Chicago 32, Illinois 

The 20th Reunion in June was a tremendous success. Had over 125 registrants which is testi­mony in itself of the success of the affair. \t the class dinner an election was held and for the first time, wc have a complete staff of class officers. Tho- are as follows: President, JIM O'NEAL, 562 King Street, Port Chester, N.Y.; Regional Vice Presidents, MIKE CARR, 5254 Mark Lane, Indian­apolis. Ind.; T. F. (TOM) DEGNAN, 701 W. 22nd St., Wilmington 2, Del.: J. P. (JIM) DOYLE, 706 Davenport Bank BIdg., Davenport, Iowa; J. J. (JIM) FAYETTE, RD 1, Shelbourne Rd., So. Burlington, Vt.; T, A. (TQM) HENNIG.4N, 5729 Joshua TreeLane. Scottsdalc, Ariz.; L. J. (LARRY) KELLEY, 505 San Jacinto BIdg., Houston, Tex.­
PAUL LILLIS, 3105 Warrington Road, Shaker Heights. O.; D. R- (DAN) SHOUVLIN, P.O. ^ Box 509, Springfield, O.; Treasurer, F. B. (EFFIE) M QUINN, Indianapolis, Ind.. and Secretary-, W. M. (BILL)) HICKEY, 3333 West 47th Place, Chicago 
32, in. 
It was felt by all that this ^%•as a step in the 

right direction. Tlie Nominating Committee was 
discussed at our dinner and ever\-one thought they 
did a xvondcrful job in making these selections 
considering the handicaps that the committee 
worked under. 
Tlie arrangements for the Reunion, such as the 

class dinner, cocktail party, and all of the details 
were taken care of by JOHN R. MALONE, who 
is head of Marketing Management at the Univer­
sity, RAY ROY and MIKE CARR. Tliey did an 
excellent Job. and we all extend our thanks to ^ 
them for their efforts. ^ 
Wc Iiad a nice note from JOHN RIVAIT who 

is now with Cherr>' Burrcll, Second Avenue, Bur­
lington, Mass.. who was anxious to see tits old 
bridge partner from St. Ed's, VIC McHUGH, and 
is vcr>' content with the life of his native New 
England. 
LauAcr DONALD F. CONNORS of New York, 

not to'be confused with law>cr DONALD D. (BIG 
RED) CONNORS of San Francisco, sent along a 
clipping pertaining to the fact tliat W*ALT IVANCE­
VIC has recently been elected president and director 
of the Equity Corporation which is an investment 
company headquartered in New York. 
We have a wonderful letter from REV. D.VNIEL 

C ROACH, S.S^., Blessed Sacrament Fathers 
Noritiatc, P.O. Box 1664, Manila, Philippines, ^ 
whom most of us tvill remember as Dan Roach. 
He has an interesting story to tell. After gradua­
tion he went into the .Air Force. He left the 
service in Marcli, 1946, at which time he entered 
the Norittatc of the Blessed Sacrament Fathers in 
Cleveland. He was ordained in September, 1952. 
Then he taught theology at Hyde Park, New York 
until he was transferred in 1958 to Manila, as 
assistant al the Sta. Cruz Church right in the heart 
of Manila. He reports that it is one of the busiest 
churches in the world. In September, 1961, he was 
transferred to his present location, in cliarge of the 
noritiate overseeing the formation of young Fili­
pino vocations. The house is 20 miles northeast 
of Manila. Tliey noiv have seven novices and it 
has a capacity of thirty-five. He reports they have 
a large debt, and I know they would welcome 
hearing from any of you who would care to send A 
a small token. Dan enclosed a picture of himself 
and his first seven novices shown in this issue. 
1942 CLASS RESOLUTION 
"Because he served his class for the past 
five years with faithfulness and wisdom." 
"Because he gave so generously of his time 
for his fellow classmates." 
"Because as class secretary, he directed 
our 20th Reunion with great skill and 
aplomb." 
"Because he managed to 'parlay' our 
Treasurv' Funds in a brilliantly executed 
financial maneuver." 
Be it resolved that these expressions of 
our great esteem and affection for William 
yi. Hickey be spread upon the entrance 
way to Morris5e>* Hall. 
—JIM O'NEAL, Class President. 

From the Alumni Office: 
Look for a "Spotlight" on M. F. (MIKE) BACAN of Piedmont, Calif., based on a San Fran­cisco Examiner report which begins: *'l5 free enter­prise dead? Are Government subsidies necessaiy" to succeed in this age of the Federal handout? Then how* about a man who iiamc to San Francisco less than two years ago, not knowing a soul, and: within six weeks raised $1,000,000; within nine months had SFO Helicopter Airlines, Inc., in operation: and, most important, within two months will have A his airline in the black, the only helicopter line ir the United States not subsidized by the Govern­ment." 
Major WILLIAM PATRICK FITZGERALD was shown au-ay from his Florham Park, N.J. home in a Marine Corps, photo showing reservists "Trident" maneuvers at Camp Lejcune, N.C FRANCIS B. QUINN, representing American United Life in Indianapolis, made the 1962 MiUioi' Dollar Round Table of the National .Association o: Life Undenmters, achieved by fewer than ont ^ per cent of insurance agents. V 
EUGENE F. HUNT has been elected a vice­president ol- Keichum, •MacLeod-"&"-Gnncv *Inc:, advertising and public relations agency, Pittsburgbi 

• after seven years as copy and creative supeni'isor. Gene was formerly with Hicks & Greist in New-York and Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osbom in Cleveland. Finally, congratulations to Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD T. WHALEN of Fort Lauderdale, Fla,, on the adoption of a daughter. Dick and Libby got Susan Elizabeth soon after her birth on June 28. 
1943 
Jack Wiggins 
5125 Briggs Avenue 
La Cresccnta, Calif. 

From the Alumni Office: DONALD B. GUY has been named to the staff of the newly formed Advanced Management Sys­tems Group at General Precision's Librascopc Divi­sion, Glcndale, Calif. Don, a resident of Encino, joined the company in I960 and contributed to the Librascopc Operations Control System (LOGS), an electronic computer-based data-gathering and re-A porting system novv* in operation producing anti­" .submarine warfare weapon control systems. He got an M.S. in business-engineering adniini;>tration at ^LI.T. in 1947. 
ROBERT E. PALENCH.VR is now vice-president for employee relations with the automotive division of the Budd Company, Detroit. Bob was formerly corporate director of industrial relations and labor relations for Ex-Cell-O. The Palenchars and their two children live in NorthvUlc. Midi. 
FRANK M. HERBERT, JR., is in Boston as circulation manager of The Atlantic ^fonthly magazine. 
1944 
George Bariscillo, Jr. 416 Burlington Ave. Bradley Beach, N.J. 

\Vc were happy m welcome back FATHER BOB ASKINS, who serv'ed 10 years in the Bengal Mis­sions and is now procurator of the Holy Cross ^tbsiuns. Father .-Vskins helped promote the 
^ Bengal Bouts on campus this year, and promises 
V to be at the Reunion in '64 if he has not been assigned back to India. 
Ncwl>-\vcd BILL TALBOT found time to drop a note reporting on Easter encounters with Louis­ville brethren. First was DR. BERNIE SCHOO, his roommate in Breen-Phillips days, who's keep­ing pace with six children. Then on tlie plane back he ran into EARL ENGLERT, who dues an enormous amount of travelling in his new engineer­ing duties, and was heading on lo Japan. He reports that he makes the Notre Dame Club of Rome frequently, and always runs into BILL MITTENDORF, *43, over there. Talbot heard that BERNIE BOWLING was mayor of St. Mat­thews, and asked Earl what Bernie's chance* were of moving from there to the mayor's seat in Louts\ille. Earl sa\*s (hat Bemic has been battling Louisville so long and hard that he doubts if lhe>''ll let him cross the city line. 
Your scribe was happy to attend a conference of 
• Eastern Class Secretaries at Manhattan's Commo­dore in May and attended several sessions with the Alumni Board, and officers of Eastern Alumni Clubs. All in all, it was a profitable experience and the \'arious exchanges of ideas I am sure will be helpful ill future class undertakings, particularly upcoming reunions. Our 20th is a year from next June, 1964, and Prcx>- JOHN LYNCH will shortly be appointing chairmen and cr)*stalizing plans. Please send along any special thoughts you may have in improving our 20tb reunion. 
^ Missed "BLACK JOHN" .MURPHY in New " York. He was on travel duty to the Tcrrc Haute 
FRANCIS J. DELANEY, '43 
Back in California, a New Tcani 

Early this year F. James Delaney was named plant manager of Sierra Metal Products Co., FuIIerton, Calif., a subsidiary-of Steelcase, Inc., Grand Rapids, Mich., manufacturer of steel office furniture. Jim, who had been manager of shipping for Steelcase, Inc., for the past two years, as­sumed his new position in March. 
A native of Butte. Montana, Jim Delaney had lived in Grand Rapids since 1949. Prior to joining Steelcase, Inc., in 1955 as an in­dustrial engineer, he was a cost accountant, cost estimator and cost engineer with Doeh­ler Jar\-is Corporation in Grand Rapids. 
Jim received his secondar>' education in San Francisco schools and was a star shot putter at Notre Dame under Coach (now ambassador) Bill Mahoney as captain of the track team. He ser\ed as a naval officer from 1943 lo 1946 and from 1946 to 1948 taught advanced mathematics in a San Francisco high school. 
In 1947 and 1948, Jim was the National 

A.A.U. senior shot put champion and quali­fied for the 1948 Olympic games by placing first in the Olympic trials. In the summer of 1948, he won a second-place silver medal in the Olympics, which were held in London, England. 
During his Michigan sojourn Jim was a member of the Grand Rapids-Notre Dame Club and Cascade Hills Country Club. He was active in Community Chest drives and as a member of St. Stephen's Church. He is married and is the father of three children. 
plant and labs of Charles Pfizer Company. A note from "Black John" reports that JACK. \VHITELY was elected president of the .Amcracc Corp. He also notes wedding bells will be ringing shortly for JOHN KEARNEY, who is thinning the ranks of '44 bachelors. Murph had a recent visit with JACK HUPF, who is in Seattle with a division of Marshall Field as a buyer in Iz^ies wear. 
ED DOWLING recently returned from a trip to Ireland and we'd appreciate a report for the column. 
Good to bear from JACK THORNTON, who 
is chief clerk in the Sute Attorney's OtBcc for 
Cook County, and constantly tanking with the 
likes of lawyer-classmates HARRY LAVERV, JIM 
KANE, jn i RICE, FRANK ROMANO, JIM 
PLATT, and JOE FARMAR. 
Thornton reports spending a pleasant evening at Chicago's Uni\-ersal Notre Dame Night with BiOX ROGERS, FRANK ROMANO and BOB WOLF, and is in regular contact with JACK SEGERSON, and passes along the laments of the "Homestead's*' best bartender since "Black John" Murphy has left the Chicago area for greener pastures in New York. 
Received a note from JACK SLATER, who is with Standard Oil in Fort Wayne, and who reports his family recently spent a vacation with the JACK HEAGNEYS of Rochester at Lake Wa»a. see. Indiana. 
This completes your Secretary** incoming m^l for this issue. Please take a few minutes and send along some news about '\'ourself for our next column. 
From the .\lumm Office: An unexpected contribution to the Challenge Campaiifn came from ^frs. Lillian Quinn, mother of JERRY QUINN, who would have been a "re­tread** classmate if he had not been killed in action at Carpane, Italy, on April 30^ I&t3. He died driving a tank along with his crew in the 88th Ca%'alr>- Reconnaissance Troop not long before 
V.E. Day. Mrs. Quinn enclosed a prayer from Jerry's diary to which we can all say .Amen: "Please God, silence the scheming and the stupid in our Government — and let the honest and strong lead us to light. Otherwise we fight in ii-ain. If We cannot correct ourselves — how can we lead others from their chaos?'* 
THOMAS B. BRENNAN vna named 1962 Notre Dame Man of the Year by the Houston, Tex.. X.D. Club. Tom is vice-president of Austral Oil Co., Houston, and took his LL.B. at Notre Dame in 1949. THOMAS P. NOLAN has moved from Pompano Beach to Boca Raton, Fla., where the Nolans now have six children: Nancy, 13; Tommy, II; Michael, 10: Paul, 7; Claudia, 4; and Teresa, bom February 10. Tom is a real estate broker in Boca Raton and says Miami area alumni are going strong. 
ROBERT M. WrrUCKI xs director of research at Astro-Research Corp., Santa Barbara, Calif. Bob got his doctorate in inorganic chemistry from Peim State and was a research scientist for Hoffman Science Center. Curtiss-Wright and Coming Glass. ROBERT FAlIGirr, formerly a products repre­sentative for .A & P Food Stores' Central Western Division, is now assistant sales director for dii'ision stores in Michigan, Indiana. Ohio, Illinois, Ken­tucky and Tennessee. 
1945 
Frank M. f.inrhap 29 Bmr Drive Da]ton,Masacfausetts 

From the Alumni Office: 
Congratulations to BERNARD E. GOTTA, JR., chartered life under^vrltcr for Massachusetts Mutual in Fort Wayne, and JOHN R. RYAN, representing Connecticut General Life In Hibbing, Minn., listed in the 1962 roster of the Million Dollar Round Table, an exalted fraction of Insurance men who have written more than a million in policies. .Also to Chicago U.S. Steel exec THOMAS E. WARD, son of the late Chicago Tribune coliunnlst .ARCH WARD, on his Republican congressional candidacy in Illinois., 
Hon. WILLLAM OBERMILLER, the "spanking judge" of Whiting, Ind., City Court, has won him­self news clippings all over the nation. Bill intro­duced such innovations for law-breaking teen-agers as public spankings, GI haircuts, work on the city beaches instead of jail terms and compulsory read­ing of Gibbon's "Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire" — the last not only as hard labor but to show "how a nation can decay without religion or morals." Judge Obermillcr, commimity relations di­rector of American Oil Co., ran for the judicial post as a commimity service. A veteran of the wwid­shed himself, he considers his spankings not a ptd>­licity trick but a way of keeping his town a good 
Notre Dame Alumnus. October^ 2962 43 
place to raise a family, sucli as he and his wife 
Anne have started with three-year-old Sara Sue. 
FRANK JAMES CULR\NE, a re-tread member 
of the Class *'spotlighted" a year or two ago as 
treasurer-counsel for the Formfit Co., is also get­
ing acquainted in Nashville, Tcnn,, as a director 
of Gencsco, another women's wear company. With 
wife Mar>- and children James (14), Michael (12). 

Cathy (8), .\nnic (6) and Patti (3), Frank lives in 
Glencoc, III. 
FR.AKK R. BEAUDINE is now corporate man­

ager of manufacturing for Indiana General Corp. 
He had been assistant to the executive xice-president 

since last October. Previously Frank was %x-ilh U.S. 
Rubber, Montgomcr>- Ward and McKinscy & Co. 
Commander JOHN G- BROZO has been in charge of Fighter Squadron 62 at the Xa\-al Air Station. Cecil Field, Fla., since June. Attached to the air­craft carrier Shangri-La, the squadron flies Cru­sader jets and recently participated in an air power demonstration for President Kennedy aboard the carrier Enterprise. John and his wife Christine live in Jacksonnllc. 
The family of FBI agent W7LLUM A. BRACK­EN was the subject of a feature that took up most of a "home and fashions" page in a recent issue of the New York World Telegram and Sun. The itory detailed the home life of Bill, a Xeiv York internal security agent: wife Janice, a former air­line steu'ardess; and ilicir lix'ely five in Paramus. N.J.: Bniy, 8; Brian. 6: twins Kathlcm and Noreen. 4; and Teresa. 2. 
1946 
Peter P. Richiski 6 Robin Place Old Greenwich, Conn. 

From the .-Mumni OfEce: 
Delayed word %*'as received during the summer on the death of Mr. Ralph G- Perry. Mr. Perr>' was the father of Seaman ROBERT G. PERRY, who would have been a classmate If he bad survived an acd­dental explosion in 1943. Sympathy and a pledge of prayers to the widow and mother. 
1947 
Jack Miles 3218 Bcntlcy Lane .South Bend, Indiana 

From the Altmini Office: 
Secretary- J.\CK MILES, returning from an Eastern \'acaiion on which he gathered some ma­terial for this column, incurred a severe respiratory-disorder which has had him hospitalized in recent weeks and unable to turn out the usual gay pastiche. Recovering nicely, the "ox>'gen kid" may be the only operating Class Secretary* carrying the oils of the *'I.ast" Sacraments. Following are a few* notes from the mails until Jack gets back in form. 
WILLUM A. ^UDDE-^* and Grad Schooler SMITH HIGGINS have both been promoted to associate professor at Indiana University. Bill, who did his graduate work at Xaner and Michigan, is in the English department. Smith, with master's and doctorate from X.D. ('4-7, '55), got his pro­motion in mathematics and irontinues as dean of the Di\*ision of University* Extension. 
Word on a big plastics and chemical marketing program of Cosden Petroleum Corp.. a subsidiarv of W. R. Grace & Co., notes that P.\UL V. AMES is based in New York as eastern district manager, assisted by RICHARD CORD.\SCO, '50. Paul got an M.B..'\. in marketing from Harx'ard Business School. 
JA&fES DURBIX was honored by the mayor, i-arious dty officials and about 350 citizens of Tucson, Ariz., before leaving the city*, where he has been manager of the Pioneer Hotel lor five years, to accept a post in Phoenuc with the Del Wdib Corporation. At a huge testimonial luncheon in the Pioneer, the mayor presented Jim with a copper plaque proclaiming him a "lifetime citizen of Tucson" and said that Jim had added pages of history to the Tucson cultural, religious and civic KCDc with his many actintics. He was lauded particulariy for organizing and leading a program 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus^ October, 1962 
RENE J. DOGNAUX, JR., '48 In VincenneS; a Sharpshooter President 

Rene J. Dognaux, Jr., ^v-as recently ap­pointed to ser\-e as president of the Black­ford Window Glass Co., Vincennes, Ind., succeeding his father who retired in Janu­ary-, 1962. 
The plant which employs some 300 men, and has an annual pa\ToIl of more than two million dollars, was founded in 1901 by Rene*s grandfather, the late Frank Bas-tin, a Belgian immigrant. It is presently the only one of a one-time forty such plants in Indiana. 
Bud, as he is affectionately known, and his wife Dorothy are the parents of four chil­dren: Kay Ann, 12: Richard, 10; Jeffrey, 2: and a brand new daughter, Julia, born .•\pril 9. 
He has ser\*ed on the Annexation Board for the Cit>' of Vincennes and is a member of the Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus and a member of the men's Gregorian choir at the Old Cathedral. He ser\*ed as toast­master for the kick-off part>' held in con­nection with Notre Dame's Challenge Rally program. 
During the year of 1961 he became a three-Ume state rifle champion, having de­fended his resident championship title last fall. He also won the State .30 caliber cham­pionship, and as far back as the State Asso­ciation records go, this is the first time one indi\-idual has won both titles in the same year. Rene participates in smallbore rifle matches in \*arious parts of the Midwest and has accumulated an imposing number of beautiful trophies and an array of stiver flatware in awards. 
Rene's younger brother, Francois, gradu­ated from Notre Dame in June, 1961. 
of integrating public accomodations through \-oIun­
tar>* action and promoting a $26.7 million bond ^ issue for a civic center and other improvements. W Jim also rcccixxd a book of letters from civic organizations and a framed special illustrated issue of the "Brewery Gulch Gazette" headlined "Good­bye, Jim." A vice-president of the Del Webb Corp., whose ex-bascball-star president was featured in 
Time magazine for his "retirement \-ilIages," said the organization had been trj'ing to land Durbin for four years since he was '*one of the top five hotel men in the United States, and it would be difficult to sav where he would rank among the five." 
1948 
John Defant 
Geoffgc A. Pflaiun, 9 
Publisher, Inc. 
38 West Fifth Street 
Dayton 2, Ohio 

From the .-Mumni Office: 
V-12 Classmate GEORGE O. CASE is in civil service in the supply depot of U.S. Naxv Fleet Material Support Office, Mechanicsburg, Pa., where he lives at 11 Woodland Drive. 
LEONARD JOSEPH AULL received an M.A. degree at the State University of Iowa during the summer. Len's field of study was not stated, but his cronies from the Glee Club bass section hope it isn't music. ^ 
ROBERT W. SCHELLENBERG has been ap-^ pointed general sales manager of television station WJXT, channel 4 in Jacksonville, Fla. Bob ^vas formerly national sales manager for WJXT and general sales manager for WTOP radio, Washington, 
D.C. He was also in sales for \VTTG, Washington, and the Minute >faid Corp. 
Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. recently announced that ROBERT W. NINNEMAN has been promoted to the new post of insurance re­search officer, effective in Jidy. He has been a specialist-assistant to the insurance Wee-president. Graduated in chemistry. Bob switched to law and got an LL.B. from Marquette in 1952 while working as a chemist with the Miller Brewing Co. He was in law practice in Oshkosh and Tomah, Wis., until Joining Northwestern Mutual in Milwaukee in 1958. Bob, his wife and four children live at 4545 N. A Sheffield Ave. in Shorcwood, a Milwaukee suburb. ^ Three younger brothers are also alumni—Thomas, *50; Peter, '53; Richard, '58. 
1949 
John Walker Wayne, Illinois 

From the Alumni Office: The recent article by a\R L APONE on FATHER HESBURGH was Carl's third piece in the Catholic Digest, the first having been written about the Victory March when he was still a senior. He's now music critic and feature writer for the Sunday magazine of the Pittsburgh Press. Featured in the past issue, ROBERT L. JONES and his Tulsa architecture firm of Murray-Jones-Murray won top honors for two churches in the annual Spaeth-Lercaro archiiccture competition — largest churdi architecture competition in the U.S. 
— at the meeting of the North .American Liturgical Conference in Seattle August 24. St. Patrick's Church, Oklalioma City, was selected as the best ^ example of Catholic Church arcliltecture com-^ pleted in the U.S. in the last three years, beating out even the magnificent St. John's .Abbc>' church designed by Marcel Breuer In Minnesota. De­signed for construction by St. Pat's parishioners, the church is a simple striking structure in poured concrete and plate glass, accommodating 500 wor­shipers in an enclosed church-wlthln-the church and nearly three times that number in a spacious courtyard surrounding the glass core. Winning an honorable mention u-as another Jones design, Tulsa's oft-honored Sts. Peter and Paul Church. ^ 
An LL.B. of the Class who came from RIpon 
CoUcgc, JAMES P. REEDY was appointed in August as assistant general counsel in law for the 
• Milwaukee Road, Chicago, which he joined in 1951 as an attorney, rising lo assistant general M>licitor and general attorney before the appoint* mcnt. Jim lives at 608 Woodbine in Oak Park, 111. 
REV. PAUL G. ^VENDELL, C.S.C., took over in August as Assistant Vice-President of the Uni­versity for Business Affairs, in charge of all auxil' iarx* enterprises formerly administered by the Business Vice-President, REV. JEROME WILSON, C.S.C., '32. Father Wendell continues as co­ordinator of meetings and director of student aid. 
WALTER J. YOUNGER has moved to Helena, Mont.j as sales manager for a construction company. Wah, wife Jeanne and the eight younger Yonngers are ''happy to be closer to the mountains.*' Las Vegas' JUDGE JOHN J. MOWBR^VY «as slioivn 
^ in an AP pholo swearing in the lady appointed Nevada lieutenant governor to replace the late movie cowboy. Rex Bell. 
DR. STEPHEN J. GALL.\, director of the anesthesia research laboratories for the University of Pittsburgh School of ^fedicine and Prcibyterian Hospital, returned in August from a five-week lecture and sight>seeing tour of universities and hospitals in England, Ireland, Austria, Switzerland, Germany and France, including lectures at Univer­sity College, Dublin; the Royal CoUege of Surgeons, London; the Welsh National School of Medicine, Cardiff, Wales; the University of Vienna, and the University of Basel. Swiss medical facilities were most impressive, but nowhere was there research of the magnitude of anesthesiologv' expansion at Pitt 
to the tunc of $125,000, Iialf of it awarded by the 
• National Institutes of Health. Most news reports of the 1962 Pulitzer Prizes did not disclose that a special Pulitzer Board citation to the Fort Wayne (Ind.) News-Sentinel for public scr\ice mentioned a scries of articles on mental health by reporter JOHN ANKENBRUCK. John's brother James also attended the University with the Class of '46, but was killed in Germany in December, 1944. John, like Pulitzer winner EDWIN O'CONNOR, '39, has a -.pccial regard for Prof. FRANK O'MALLEY. 
Grad schooler DR. THEODORE C. SCHWAN, on leave as a professor of chemistr\- at Valparaiso University, has spent the summer in Indonesia helping set up chemistry programs for the U.S. Agenc>- for International Development. 
C. EUGENE SCHAFFER has moved from Culver City to Riverside, Calif. (3563 Prospect) and an-
Bnounces that a third son, Kevin Eugene, was born June 21. Mother is tlie former Kathleen Smith. St. .Mar>-'5 '52. 
1950 
Richaid F. Habn 
47 Emenon Rd. 
Glen Rock, N. J. 

From the Alumni Office: 
P Appointment of ARTHUR P. OWENS as an administrative resident for the Long Coleman and Riley hospitals of Indiana U. Medical Center, IndianapolfS, was announced in July. Art will get a year of experience running a hospital in con­junction with his work for an M.S. in hospital administration at Iowa, started after II years as an accountant for Caterpillar Tractor in his native Peoria. The Ouenses and their five children live at 3107 Fuller Drive, Indianapolis. 
RICHARD CORD.ASCO is ba>.d in Xe« York, ivorking iil chemical-plastics sales in the eastern district for Cosden Petroh'um Corp.. a" subsidiar>­of W, R. Grace Si Co. Dick joined Cosden last fall after nine years as a special agent of the FBI. 
Conover-Mast Publications, Inc., has appointed THO.MAS F. HANNON director of .Midwest op­erations, based In his native Chicago and over­seeing operations of 10 C-M trade magazines In the 
^j-slale Chicago area. Torn has been with the 
Jirm's "Purchasing" magazine since 1956 and Mid­west regional manager since 1959. He has worked in promotion for other publishing companies. The Kannoiis have two children and live in River Forest, lU. 
The death of DONALD .McM^VNUS with a brain tumor in March was a special shock to classmates. S>'mpathy to his widow Regina and their six chil­dren in South Bend. In his real estate work Don was particularly instrumental in developing a par­ticular area which an anonymous correspondent 
mo the South Bend Tribune wants named "McManus 
iTark" In his memor\*. 
CDR. JOHN G. BROZO, USN, '45 
(foreground), reads his orders to the ship's company upon taking cocunand of Fighter Squadron 62, the "Seagoing Boomerangs." Listening is the former skipper of the Crusader jet squadron, attached to the carrier Shangri-La, for whom John was executive officer. 
(U.S. Navy photo) 
1951 
Robert KliDgcnbcrgcr 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. Wayne, Indiana 

From the Alumni Office: The Chicago Trib's DAN'E CONDON noied that "a California manufacturer of a snappy women's sportswear line has assigned JERRY GROOM . . . to handle all of Illinois except the Chicago area." Jerry was expected to move from San Francisco to Champaign or Urbana. 
Belated congratulations lo JOHN H. JANOWSKI, elected last spring to succeed BURNIE BAUER, '38, as executive secrctar>' of South Bend's Catholic Forum, a leading local discussion group. 
THOMAS E. WARD, '46, one of several Irish running for Congress this year, gets the best wishes of New York Gov. Nelson Rockefeller for his Republican candidacy in Illinois. Tom is the son of the late Chicago Tribune sports editor and columnist Arch Ward, '23. 
ROBERT A. MURRAY of Glennew. JU., a now assistant secretary of Procon Incorporated, a sub­sidiary of Universal Oil Products Co. An LL.B. '52, Bob formerly manned labor relations for Utah Construction & Mining Co. Procon spedzdizes in heavy industry* construction like refineries and chemical plants. 
DR. EDWARD J. KOVAL, who got his gradu­ate degrees in chem engineering at Illinois, has joined the A. £. Staley Mfg. Co. of Decatur, III., as a group leader in engineering research for the corn, soybean and chemical processor. A Chicagoan, Ed has been with California Research Corp. and spent two years with the Army Chemical Corps. 
FBI agent JAMES V. LAUGHLIN, formerly with the Dallas and Texarkana (Tex.) offices of the Bureau, is now attached to the Kansas City office and icsiding in suburban Raytown, Mo., with wife Joanne, children Kathy, Suzy and Jimmy. 
1952 
Harry L. Bach 600 Board (tf Trade Bldg. \Vlieeliiig,W.Va. 
From the ^Vlumni Office: JIM MUTSCHELLER, sitting out his first season away from the Baltimore Colts In nine years, is presumably still cheering the home football team as a Baltimore insurance exec 
Among Dc Paul Universit>"'s recent graduate degrees were master's diplomas in education for GEORGE E. .McNULTY and WILLUM R. NU­GENT of the class. 
One of those receiving his master's with the '52 Class was ARTHUR H. FURNIA, who assumed duties last summer as international relations officer in the Bureau for Near East and South .Asia .Affairs of the U.S. Agency for International Development in Washington. Going on to a doctorate at George­town, Art has been working for the government for ten years before Joining AID, as an intelligence and foreign affairs officer for the National Security, Atomic Energy and Disarmament agencies. He will work on budgets and program planning for eco­nomic assistance to 17 underde\'eIoped nations. .Art and his wife Thomaslne have three children at their Bethesda, Md., home: Suzanna, .Anthony and Re­becca. 
1953 
David A. McElvam 2328 Alexander Terr. Homcwood, mhiois 

From the .\Iumni Office: WILLLAXf J. SPIELER of Denver has been promoted to supervisor of service slalions in the marketing department of Continental Oil Co.. headquartered at Salt Lake City, Utah. Bill %vas formerly regional sales de\'elopment representative in Denver. .After working for the Salina Journal and Mary-mount College in Salina, Kansas, and most recently as an account executive for the Los Angeles public relations firm of Theodore R. SiUs & Co., THOMAS 
E. FOOTE l:as joined the staff of Ford Motor Companx-'s western public relations office in San Francisco. 
Academic entries include an LL.B. for BRIAN 
B. DUFF and an M.B.A. for GER.ARD M. KEELEY at De Paul University, Chicago; a master's in public health for RALPH S. HOOVER at Harvard University, and an M.A. for J.AMES D. MC­CARTHY at Ohio State University. 
.Actor BRIAN KELLY, as .if to celebrate the demise of his second TV series, married starlet Mary Lou Briley, who hails like Brian from De­troit, and departed in late June for an extended honeymoon in Honolulu. (Angling for a guest shot on "Hawaiian Eye," Brian?) The bridegroom's 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 45 
dad, former Governor HARRY KELLY, is now 
on the Michigan Supreme Court. 
A Grad School member of the Class ts the latest to join Fathers HALLLN'AN, MENDEZ, GAN­GULY, McCAULEY and McGRATH in the ranks of Notre Dame hierarchy. MSGR. RAYMOND G. HUNTHAUSEN, president of Carroll College, was appointed in Jtily and consecrated in August as the sixth Bishop of Helena, Montana. Bisliop Hunthauscn, then a faculty member at Carroll, got an M^ . in chemistry and returned to ser\-c for two years as athletic director and coach before being named president in 1957. He is the second 
N.D. man to become Ordinary of the Helena Sec. Most Rev. GEORGE FINXEG.AN, C.S.C., was Bishop o( Helena from 1927 until his death in 1932. 
1954 
Milton J. Beaudinc 
76 East Court Dr. 
Decatur, Illinois 
Well, here it is, deadline time again and having 

received only four letters since last deadline how 
can I possibly write a decent article? 
JOHN GROSSPIETSCH and I got together on July 14, 1962 in Wausau, Wisconsin to drink some beer and to sec an old buddy, NED SEIM, marry the former Sheila O'Connell Brick. Wc now understand why Ned xvaited so long — a man of discriminating taste. A most wonderful time was had by all. Sheila and Ned arc now living at 210 
W. Main St., Crawtords%-illc, Indiana. Margo and John Grosspietsch were expecting their 5th child in .August. On the %vay back to Decatur we stopped in for an evening with the J.ACK PIT­TASES. Elaine and Jack arc most gracious hosts, recommended by Duncan Hines. FRED FINSTER u-as there in training for an expected comtback. Received an invitation to the wedding, on June 13th, of Mar>- Aimonc to Capt. FR.\NK R. WIS­NESKI, U.S.A.F. at Elmendorf Air Force Base, Alaska. Send your congratulations to Frank at 317th FIS, APO 942, Seattle, Washington. 
Joyce and JIM DE COURSEY, 6651 Wcnanga Tcr., Prairie Village, Kansas, did it again! Mar>' Colleen De Coursey was bom on July 27th. ROB­ERT L. REITZ has become associated with Horn­blower and Weeks, N.Y.S.E., 400 Madison Ave., 
N.Y. 17, N.Y. I read in Dave Condon's "Wake of the Ne^*-5," that JOHN (ALL AMERICA) LATTNER (distinguished as TOM McHUGH*S roommate) has opened a restaurant in Chicago. Appropriately, it's called Lattncr's Steak House and should be a good spot to meet after the games, etc. FRANK LEX was in town a icw weeks ago. He and Kay arc expecting again. Frank is a wheel %vith Caterpillar Tractor in Shreveport, La. (Wheel — tractor: get it?) 
Received a letter from Mrs. GIA* AL\CINA, JR. (Thanks, Sharon), 16955 S. Murphy .Ave., Hazel-crest, III. Guy is an accountant with Pacesetter Homes, Inc., South Holland, HI., and the proud dad of Guy Frederick bom 4-8-62 and Anne, age 2i4. Sharon, I'd like to fulfill your wishes but unless VERN ESSI, CARL FARAH, BILL HAMEL, RALPH BONANATA, and ROY JOHNS write to me, I can't fill you and Guy in on tlieir where­abouts and actirities. Write! 
Our sinccrcst s\-mpathy is extended to Mar>' .Anne and JOHN NORTON whose son, Joseph Jude, died on June 25th. He u-as 18 months old. John and Mar>- Anne have three other sons. John (Lt., USN) is flying P2Vs with VP-16 based at .X..A.S., Jackson\-iIle, Florida. Our s>-mpathy is also extend­ed to BILL CARLSON, JR., whose father, Wm. 
T. Carson, Sr., passed away on May 7, 1962. 
Capt. RICH HOIttLAN, USMC, 1243 N. Ven­tura, Anaheim, California, questioned his standing in the offspring race. You're still in the running. Rich — No. 6, Perry John, was bom on March 10, 1962. Ricli is asst. recruiting ofiicer in Los .Angeles, cox-cring such i-ital areas as Las Vegas, Tucson, Phoenix, San Diego, etc Sounds like fun! Rich reports seeing BOB MEISTER, wlio is with the Ford Motor Co. in Newport Beach. Rich, I can't imagine anyone calling you long distance collect on the rcimion week end. 
Here's some news from the Dept. of Communica­tion Arts: JACK SAND, married, two children, lives at 130 High St., Orange, N.J, and is in public relations with Public Service Elec & Gas Co., Newark, N.J. BILL NOONAN Is asst. promotion manager. Union Carbide Plastics Co., married, with three children and resides at 10 Coach Drive, Hazlet, New Jersey. JIM KELLEHER and wife have four chUdren and live at 6825 Millwood Road, Bediesda, Maryland, and is asst. to the Postmaster General In Wash., D.C. PAUL UDELL Is a 
46 Notre Dame AlumntiSj October, 1962 
JOE DcLIA, *47, and his quarterback Gloria back up their "line" (I-r.: Joseph, 7; Robert, 5; Louis, 4; Deborah, 8) in front of Rome^s Notre Dame International School, where he is a phy. cd. instructor. Native of Newark, N. J., and brother of Dr. Emilio Frederick DcLia, '35, Joe is a med student at the University of Rome, \'ice-prcsidcnt of the Eternal City N.D. Club and a bit player in such films as 
"Best of Enemies" at Cine Citta, Italy's own "Hollywood on the Tiber," in his spare time. 
broadcaster for C.B.S. in Los Angeles, is married and has one child . . . 261 S. Carmelina, Los Angeles 49, California. PETE SCHWENK called the other day. His wife Jean Ann is expecting No. 4 this fall. Pete has his own boat business and his accoununt is none other than JOSEPH 
P. MALONEY, C.P.A. 
At this writing I'm looking fonvard to the Pur­due game and to seeing many of you again. DICK PILGER is planning the goodies and deserv*es our thanks again. If you think these articles are get­ting shorter, you're right. Write, right?! 
From tlie Alumni Office: 
M. EDWIN PRUD'HOM.ME {of the LouUiana Prud'hommcs), who left lo complete his studies elsewhere, checked in for alumni membership. Ed is now president of Lawyers Title Agency of Tex­arkana. Inc., 409 State Line Avenue on the Texas side. He wants to hear from FRAN RO^L\NCE and a DICK PEPIN wliom wc can't locate but who Ed thought might have been ordained around *54. 
H. ALLAN KELLY (H. for Howard) is now manager of the St. Louis sales office of the Sur­prenant Mfg. Co., a subsidiary* of International Tel. & Tel., the same wire and cable company for whicli PAUL GORDON, *49, handles employee relations. In charge ot marketing as far away as Kansas City and parts of Kentucky', Tennessee and Illinois, Allan came to Suprenant from Anaconda Wire and Cable in Los Angeles. With his wife, the former Patricia Ann Tyler, and four children, he lives In Brldgeton, Mo. 
DR. FRANK BOTT is on active duty with the Air Force as a captain with the 852nd %(edlcal Group, Castle AFB, Calif. Frank had specialized in internal medicine at the V.A. Hospital In Chi­cago and Philadelphia General. His wife Is the former Jacqueline LawTcnce, and they have a daughter, Trac>-. Another doctor, HAROLD F. REILLY, JR., M.D., has announced the opening of an office in Internal medicine and hematology-at Nc\v Dorp, Staten Island, N.V. 
ROGER O. VALDISERRI, public relations di­rector for Mercedes-Benz Sales, Inc., South Bend, is now president of the St. Joseph County Ar­thritis and Rheumatism Foundation after a couple of years on the board. 
Two bankers of the Class got promotions during the summer. RICHARD (ALL-.^MERICAN) ROSENTHAL left a \'ice-presldcncy and director­ship at Indiana Bank & Trust, Fort Wayne, to become president of St. Joseph Bank & Trust in South Bend. Dick played with the Pistons in pro­fessional basketball, went to the U. of Wisconsin ^ School of Banking and was active in many pro­fessional and civic groups in Fort Wayne. JOHN 
P. MERTENS, formerly managing the Kalonah, N.Y., office of County Trust Co., joined the ad­ministrative staff of the bank's auditing department in White Plains. The Mcrtenses live in Kalonah with five dilldrcn. 
In academic circles: ANTHONY JOHN KEN­NEDY of Brooklyn, N.Y., got a Ph.D. in physics at Carnegie Tech to go with an M.S. received there eariier; RICHARD J. EISENHAUER of Lebanon, Pa., has begun work on an NSF grant for graduate study in biology and chemistry at WVstcm Maryland College, Westminster, Md., haring got an M.S. at Bowling Green State U. (Dick has been teaching at Delsea Regional High near Had-^ donfield, N.J., where he and wife Jean have five* cluldrcn; and REV. FRANCIS A. GANGEMI of S>Tacusc, N.Y., got his Ph.D. in physics from Catholic U., where he also took his ^1.S. 
1955 
Paul Fullmer 7344 N. Ridge Blvd. Cluca^o 45, Illinois 

Hey, have you guys (and gals) forgotten how 
to write?? Let's get on the ball and keep the 
ex-proprietor of "Splinters From The Prcssbo.x" 
from becoming the ex-wrlter ot this column. ^ 
First of all, a big batch of congratulations for one of the die-hard bachelors In the class, JOHN CORBETT 0*MEARA. He walked down that long, long aisle with the former Penelope Appel on June 9 in Washington. Tliey are now living at 1 Lafayette Plaisance (how's that for real goldplatcd class?), Detroit. I remember the good old days back in Walsh ^vhen Corhett, JOE DALEY, JOE SWIFT and a couple of other guys whose wives and kids wouldn't believe it today, decided to stay single and then take a long cruise before the fifth reunion. Ah, those senior dreams! 
Speaking of cruises, DON MATTHEWS is back In the thick of the America Cup competition. After a rough summer on Vim last time, Don moved over to Wcatherly this year as alternate helmsman. As you probably have read, "Weathcrly has been a real eye-opener in the races. My only^ experience on a large sailboat, sloop or whatever" they call those monsters, left me woozy for a week. Don can have them. I wonder if his old sailing buddy, PAUL MILLER, got over to New­port to watcli any of the competition. 
TIM DEVEREUX, who Is the major domo with a frozen food concern in Chicago now. re­cently blew the family bankroll by taking frau Ann on down to Bermuda. While there he ran Into BOB BAUDENDISTEL, who was honey­mooning with his bride, the former Jean Justt. ELLIOT LESE and his wife, Dolores, also were enjoying a second honeymoon on the big, sandy Island. 
So why haven't I heard from AL ALVAREZ,^ JOHN XSIAS, R.\Y B.\RA, BOB B.ARBOUR.W LEO CALLAGHAN, JIM CALLAHAN, JOHN DAMM, FRED DANNER, BOB ESCHBACHER, TONY EVERS, DICK FARRELL, SID FARRIS, DON and TOM GALLAGHER, JOE HAGGERTY, BOB HAIDINGER, ED JANSSEN, BOB JASM.AN, JOE KEARNEY and HENRY KEARNS? 
DICK COOK Is assistant advertising manager for Container Corporation of America. TOM IGLESKI finally picked up his law degree and Is cramming for the bar. Mary and MARTY CUL­HANE have their hands full with their twins. I saw DICK BEEMAN. TOM HAYES, STEVE REBORA, JERRY BRANSFIELD, BOB >VING, RON AUER, GERRY HILLSMAN and RU5S TOOHEY at the Chicago Club golf outing. "Robes" was still crowing about the arrival of Jeremiah Bransfield, Jr. 
On the journalism front, RAY KENNEDY'S dream job of night cl\i editor at Show Business^ Illustrated lasted as long as the magazine didJV which was about a year. He's now with Time In Chicago. FRANK MAIER, the little fellow uith a sharp typeuTller, has moved up to political writer for the Rockford p:^icrs. 
Milwaukee's PAUL MUELLER reports that DAN MOORE is a lawyer in Nome. If I know Dan, he probably has the local franchise for refrigerators, too. 
How about TONY LAPA5SO, BOB LARI, BOB McCARREN, D.^VE McCARTHY, BOB NA­VARRE, LELAND NEMECHEK, JOHN and JO ^ O'BRIEN, AL PAJAK, JOHN PALMISANO, TUM 
RAUH, BOB READY, KALEEL SALLOUM, ^BO B SANTA CRUZ, RALPH TAYLOR, FED­9ERIC O TERAN, BILL VALUS, JOE VANDEN­
BOSCH. PAT WAGNER. BILL WAHL, ISIDOR ZAPLATYNSKYJ. and LEO ZATTA?? 
JACK REED has moved from Cliica.qo and can be readied now at 7412 Oliver Ave., So., Minne­apolis. New Orleans lost JACK NICKNISH, but the South still has htm. Jack's at 3310 Richmond Ave., Houston. JACK RICKLING is out in the tall com country now — 24 Trcuridgc St., Lincoln. Xebr. Just call ED OCHWAT the last of the big gamblers. He now calls Las Vegas (1211 S. 9th St.) home. That's rcallv living dangerously. JOE CLUSSERATH heard the call and went West. You can Bnd htm with a Christmas card at 8908 
S. 4l5t St., Tacoma, Wash. BOB WHIPPO left ^sunny Florida for Chlcat^o (that's hard to figure). 9^c* s a suburbanite at 1114 Dell Road, Northbrook. 
TOM BRAND is another one who has moved up north. He left Louisville for Winona. Minn. (260 
E. Sanborn Ave.) TOM SCHREITMUELLER packed up, kissed New Jersey goodby and now is a solid citizen of Royal Oak, Mich. (536 Wood­side). 
Little JOHN TRAMON*TINE is another new resident of Chicagoland. He now lives at 1507 Washington, Wilmette, III. BILL FRASER trans­ferred his pad from Phoenix to 1805 Pacific, ^fan­hattan Beach, Calif. 
On the foreign front, JOHN SL/WICK is work­ing for the United States Information Agency in Germany. If I remember correctly, John is in Stutt­gart. He ranked near the top of the list in the 
A^tifT competitive exam that Ed Murrow administers. ^ I wonder if John is a chain smoker now. FRANK NEWMAN has left Northwestern to accept a position as assistant professor of English at Harpur College in New York. JIM BERQUIST is in his second year as a htstor>* teacher at Coe College in Cedar Rapids. I hope that I run into a bunch of you characters at South Bend this fall at the games and after­wards at the touchdown bar. Don't forget, loyal wives, I expect a complete report on friend hubby and family from each of you on that extra Christ­mas card this year. 
"Breakfast Rum," a first collection of 33 poems by DAVE COHEN, has been published. Those of you who want to make Dave a rich classmate can get a copy by sending one buck to 7 Poets Press. 620 E. 6th St. (Apt. 3), New York 9, N.Y. 
^rro m the Alumni Ofiice: Promotions: GEORGE W. GIST, JR., Bronx-x-illc, N.Y,, to assistant treasurer of the Chase Manhattan Bank, U.S. dept., after work in the credit dept. and an M.B.A. at N.Y.U. in the bank's special development program; CHARLES DAVID REAGAN, Indianapolis, to data phone sales manager for Indiana Bell Telephone after several engineering assignments (he and wife Mar­joric have three children, Terrcnce David, Kc\in Gcrrart and Susan Marie). 
Best wishes to RALPH GUGLIELMI, now quar­tcrbacking with the N.Y. Giants. *'Goog'' is in his sixth season with the pros, having come from the Washington Redskins via the St. Louis Cards. 
^apt . WALTER K. CABRAL, the Honolulu kid. spent part of the summer at Army transportation school. Fort Eustis, Va. School Daze: at Carnegie Tech, an M.S. in indus­trial administration for NORMAN JOSEPH DON­NELLY of Cambridge, Mass.; at DePaul U. Law School, Chicago, a J.D. (juris doctor) for THOM.AS 
R. IGLE5KI; at Harvard, an LL.B. for JOHN C. O'MEAR^V and an .\LB.A. for ROBERT E, PHIL­LIPS; and at the U. of Rochester, an M.S. for EDWARD R. SCHICKLER in mechanical engineer­ing. 
1956 
John P. Dcasy 
5697 N. Lincoln Ave. 
Chicago 45, Illinois 

w'rom the Alumni Office: 
The National Aeronautics and Space Administra­tion announced that WARREN C. KELLIHER, who got his mastcr^s last year in chem engineering, has joined the polymeric materials section at the Langley Research Center, Hampton, Va., where he lives at 100 Harbor Drive. JOHN S. SMITH has risen from sales rep to assistant sales service manager for distribution in his company's Atlanta, Ga., district. JOSEPH A. MARTELLARO, who got a Ph.D. on the campus last June, has joined 
 faculty of the Indiana University Center in 

«
e 
uth Bend as an assistant professor of economics. 
REV. DANIEL C. ROACH, S^.S., '42 (left foreground), 20 years and 12,000 miles away in the Philippine Islands, still looks like an undergraduate. Pictured with him arc seven Filipino novices, each from a difTcrent island province. (See story in 1942 Class 
colwnn.) 
DR. AR^L\ND J. RIGAUX is now Captain Rigaux. having left his South Bend medical practice and completed military orientation at Brooke Army Medical Center, Fort Sam Houston, Tex., last spring. 
Academics: a J.D. for THOMAS C. DONOVAN and an LL.B. for ANTHONY M. ROCCO at DePaul U. Law School, Chicago; an M.L.A. for architect JOSEPH A. WARD at Han--ard U., Cambridge, Mass.; a Ph.D. in English for JOHN CARNEY MEAGHER ai Princeton U., N.J.; and an LL.B. for GEORGE J. DURKIN at Western Rcscr^'e Universilv, Cleveland. 
SR. M. EMILENE ZENNER, O.S.F., who got her M.A. in '56 and has been based in Redwood City, Calif., received a Ph.D. during the summer (we're not sure where). .And a Ph.D. classmate, DR. JOHN F. FITZGIBBON recently wrote a scorching attack on "Complacence in College" for Acorns & Oaks, the magazine of St. Ambrose Col­lege, Davenport, Iowa, where he's an associate professor of philosophy. 
DONALD F. WALTER of the Law Class is now vice-president and trust officer of the First Na­tional Bank of Nilcs, Mich., having assumed direc­tion of the trust department August 20 after sL\ years with First Bank & Trust of South Bend. As assistant vice-president and trust officer, Don had been active in the South Bend Estate Planning Coun­cil and is presently secretary-treasurer. 
1957 
John P. McMcel 463 Briar Place Chicago 14, Illinois 

Re: Reunion Notes. .Among those in attendance were BOB KUHN, who is now living in New York City and is employed by the national adver­tising company of J. Waller Thompson . . . JOE FISHER, who with his wife and family is residing in Detroit . . . HAL BLAKESLEE and JOHN REARDON, who arc setting up living quarters together in Deerfield just outside of Chicago; Hal is in the promotion department of Johnson Motors, while John has joined the sales force of Quaker Oats . . . JOHN BARANY, living in South Bend and the owner of a ver\' successful harduTtre shop 
. . . Spied JACK BEDAN at the icunion but did not get a chance to find out what is new down Bargcrsville, Ind., way these da>-s . . . FRANK BROPHY has joined Ford and will be located la New York . . . Also saw JIM CANNY and DICK WING but their various endeavors arc unknown to this party; quite sure Dick Is located in Chi­cago . . . PAT CONWAV was not in attendance but is planning to leave Fullerton, Calif., and move back to Rochester with his wife and family . . . Also not in attendance was BOB COYNE who is living in Joli'et and managing the Coyne Funeral Home . . . JOHN GIBBS is married and Uving in Minneapolis . . . WILLIE GRANT was in attendance but I am not sure if he is still located in Springfield, 111., or not . . . GEORGE GROBLE is with a law firm in Chicago . . . DON HANEY and his ^vife Meg and two children Uvc in Grand Rapids, Mich. Don is employed by Lear, Inc. . . . PAUL HEER is back in Park Ridge, lU. . . . FRANK HENNESSEY is in the retail sales depart­ment of the Chicago Tribune and recently won the outstanding salesmanship award given annually by the Trib .. . DR. JAAffiS A. KENNEDY is taking his residency in Chicago '. , . others in the medical profession in the Windy City are ART "SKIP' JOHNSON and JIM CUSACK . . . BILL ^L\DDUX is practicing law in Chicago; his office is in the Prudential BIdg. . . . EMMETT MAL­LOY is still living in River Forest and is planning on running in the state representative slot on the Democratic ticket . . . DAVE MURPHY and hk wife Angle and family arc living in Cfaii:ago where Murph is a representative for Metropolitan Life .. . Also associated with Metropolitan in the same city is JACK .MOYNAHAN . . . THOMAS O'BRYAN is practicing law in Chicago and raising a family . . . JACK O'DROBINAK, whose pres­ence ^vas sorely missed, is in the legal profession in his home town of Whiting, Ind., and has his own pracu'ce . . . GEORGE O'LEARY and his wife Kay arc living in Rockford, lU. . . . KIERNAN 
J. PHELAN is home frmn the Navy and is lining with his parents in River Forest, 111. . . . JOE REICH is living in Colorado Springs (when not in Chicago at 463) and is in the brokerage busi­ness . . . FRANK REILLY and his wife Therese arc living on the South Side of Chicago and Frank is busily engaged in the investment underwriting field . . . TOM RYAN is still a bachelor and Uv­ing in Kalamazoo . . . JOHN SLEVIN is now practicing law in Peoria, IlL John and his lovely wife Mary are the proud parents of a beautifid young daughter . . . MARK STOREN and bis wife Hannah are linng in Broadview, III. . . . GEORGE STRAKE has received his MBA from Harvard and is back in Houston and can be fouad engaged in many things in the Gulf BIdg. . . . 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October^ 1962 47 
DICK SWIFT is going to Law School at George­town University . . . JOHN HAMMETT is an agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation . . . Other faces seen reunion week end were JACK KING, who was aroused from his bed at one in the morning in Gar\*, Ind.- and was seen in the halls of Dillon two and one>lialf hours later . . . JIM MORTON, who is working for U.S. G>-psum and is located in Bloomington. Ind. . . . DON LEONE who is working for an engineering firm in Chicago . . . Saw but didn't get a chance to talk to: DON MASINI and RENO MASINI, TOM MAUS; TOM *TIGER" MULOVHY who is still Ii«ng up Milwaukee wav; TOM PENDERGAST %vho is Ii\-ing in Chicago . . . LOUIS PILLIOD down Toledo way . . . JOE POLia\STRO . . . GREG SULLIVAN who is now living in Chicago . . . DICK TORDA, living in Toledo . . . BILL WADDICK, practicing law in Indianapolis . . . HENRY "BUZZ" \\TJRZUR raising a family with his wife ifarilyn in Evanston while working in the marketing research department of the Chicago 
Tribune . . . LOU LONCARIC is living in Atlanta . . . DICK "DIXIE" LEWIS who is going into his second year of law scliool at North Carolina University , . . Dixie is still Dixie and continues to **colIect" southern belles down Caro­lina way . . . BILL McGO^VAN is tlic prosperous housing merchant of Indianapolis and with BILL MOONEY, the big drug and beverage man, has things pretty well tied up in the Capital City. AU their financing is done through DON STUL­DREHER, who is enj'oying a prosperous banking career in town . . . PAT SHEERlS' is at Loyola Law School in Chicago and has caught the eye oi the Cook County machine . . . THOMAS O'BRIEN DOYLE is still the big floral magnate down L>-nchburg way. 
Depending upon all of you to ket-p this column healthy. So please send me any and all informa­tion about the doings and happenings of the mem­bers of the illustrious Class uf '57. 
Re: New Class Officers for the Class of 1957: President, DON BARR succeeding GEORGE STRAKE; Vice President—North Central—GEO. GROBLE; Vice President—SouUi—DICK "DIXIE" LEWIS; Vice President—East—JERRY SMITH; 

» Vice President—West— JOE REICH; Secretary, JOHN McMEEL. 
* Have personally seen . . - JIM WEBER who is residing in Canton with his wife Nancy and daughter Julie Anne; Jim is working for the Can-
r ton Repository* . . . GENE HEDRICKS at JACK 1_ KING'S wedding in Gary; Gene and his wife : S>'bil are living in Michigan City where he Is ' employed by Midwest Steel Corporation. Jack 
married the former Pat Glenn of Gar^*, and I I may add after last seeing him that a "King" and not a *'Glenn'* is perpetually in orbit. . . . Also r in attendance w-as HUGH O'DONNELL, who has 
*
 joined his dad's law firm In Mansfield, O. . . . 

*
 Jack King kept his composure throughout the l ceremony but at the vrr\- last an "itty bitty tear I let him down." . . . Out on the west coast I \ had dinner with CHARLIE GRACE, who is now 


•; father of three. Charlie was recently promoted 
i- to western sales manager of Cummins Diesel and IS based in L.A. Charlie and his family are living just outside of Whilticr .. . In Portland I stayed with the family of our esteemed classmate THOMAS HALEY. Tom is preparing to manage his own con\-alcsccnt hospital. He and his wife Lourdene ha%c two children, Malia and Tl\omas, Jr. Saw mucli of TOM HUGHES, who entered the mari­tal state last .April 28 . . . Wc bachelors have indeed lost a good brother . . . .Attended PAUL HAWBLITZEL'S wedding in Seattle last Fcbruar>­
24. Paul married Lorctta Griffin of Seattle, and thc>- arc presently residing in Los Angeles. Paul is an auditor for Minnesota Mining . . . Nice visit with JIM O'NEILL and his wife in Albu­querque. Jim ^*as living in New York but feels he is back in New Mexico to stav . . . Down in St. Louis CORNELIUS T. LANE has finished his first year of law scIiool at St, Louis University . . . JACK CROWLEY has completed his training program for IBM and has Joined the sales force . . . GUS LUEPKE is practicing law and by the way graduated No. 1 in his class . , . DICK MALY, JOE ROSS, and MATT ^VEISS are still single and in town. Saw all three at the reunion . . . BILL BARTLING is married and is also in St. Louis . . . DON "GUNNER" McMANAMON has graduated from Indiana Law School and is practicing in Indianapolis . , . JERRY BECHERT is also in **Naptown" and was married last June 23 to Mary Nancy Albers . . . DES O'CONNELL is 

I back in Chicago and is blazing a trail in the man­agement fronsultant field with McKensey & Co. . . . ' And DENNY TROESTER, as you may have 
48 Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 
HON. WILLIAM B. LAWLESS, '44, Jus­tice of the New York State Supreme Court, was named Notre Dame Man (^ 1962 by the N.D. Club of BuflFalo, N.Y. Judge Lawless is president of the Notre Dame Law Assn., and his term has seen the first cam* pus conference sponsored by the Assom­tion. Bill assembled panelists from among the leading courtroom specialists in the U^. for "The Trial Lawyer—1962," held in conjunction uith the 1962 Class Keunions. 
heard, has abandoned the insurance business to join the N.D. Foundation. Let us keep this column healthy by injecting it witli the news from your area. 
From the .\lumni Office: 
Tlie mail and clippings report: that BILL Mc-GOWAN, once-a-year golfer at the annual N.D. Club tournament at Indianapolis* Hillcrcst Country* Club, scored a hole-In-onc during the last outing Julv 19 on a 160-vard 5-iron shot to the cup on the' I2th hole; that DR. LEON a GLOVER, JR., (the doctorate from Stanford) is doing s>'nthetic rubber research on the professional stafT of Shell Development Company's Emeryville (Calif.) Re­search Center; that PATRICK J. MURPHY of Alexandria, Va., has joined the Federal Service as a program funds analyst; and that Army 1st Lt. JAMES S. RICE is training officer of Headquarters Co., I32nd Signal Battalion, 32nd Infantry Di­vision, a National Guard Unit assigned to Fort Lewis, Wash. 
New degrees included: a J.D. for FR.\NCIS S. CONNELLY Irom DcPaul U. Law School, Chi­cago; an M.D. for JOHN M. HARPER and a Ph.D. for EDWARD P. ST.AHEL from Ohio State; an M.S. in business administration for THOMAS P. FENTON and an M.S. in chcmistrj- for ALFRED E. PATARACCHIA from the Univcrsilv of Rochester; and an ^^L.S. for TERE.\CE N. CROWXEY from Rutgers University. 
1958 
Arthur L. Roulc, Jr. 
1709 Indiana Avenue 
LaPorte, Indiana 
It's tltat time again, friends, and as the worthy editor of this publication brcatlics impatiently down my neck (we're pushing that deadline once again) I turn to the task of compiling this issue's column. It is hardly fair, however, to refer to the putting together of this column as a "task," since the news items received since the last writing are hardly enough to warm up the t\pcwritcr. Therefore my first words must be those of leprimand. Surely you classmates are doing something out there in the wide, wide world. Why not give the rest of us : ^ break and let us hear of it? Our thanks go to the men listed below w-ho took the time to contribute to our cause. 

BOB SCHREINER passed through La Porte in June and spent an hour witli your secretarv- talking over the events of the last few years, and provid­ing some news of fellow '58ers. Bob also bought my lunch, which is even more commendable. For the past two or three years. Bob lias been district agent for the Sun Life Insurance Co. of Canada, with offices in Chicago and Hammond. Mr. Schreiner and family are living in Munster, Ind. Bob reports that WALT SCHNEBLE is now an airline pilot, although he couldn't recall which particular line. DICK KWAK is married and liv­ing in Chicago. And RUDY BAMON'TI is alsr^ married, living in Chicago, and engaged in the insurance business. Rudy recently completed his .Army duty, which was spent as a Russian language spccialist-
A letter and subsequent card from La Salle, 111., reveal that JIM (HOOT) WALSH and wife Carol were recently blessed with the arrival of a daughtvr: Maureen Elizabeth, born June 26, 1962. .\s re­ported earlier in these pages, Hoot is a representa­tive of the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States. Not satisfied with being hitched himself, he was recently a party tu the nuptials of BILL WALSH and Miss Barbara Connors of Ot­tawa, III., at St. Columba's Church in Ottawa. JOHN PICKEN ^vas an usher as was the afore­mentioned Hoot. Bill ,Walsh is now working on hi ^ doctorate at Iowa State and spent the past summer^ working for the .Atomic Energy Commission at Los .Alamos, N.M. JIM GOEHLALS was married this summer also, but full details have not as yet been forthcoming. By the way, Hoot Walsh wants to know what has happened to: PAUL COFFEY, JOHN CRONLEY, BILL SHERMAN, JIM DUN­NIGAN, and JI.M BRADY. 
The MIKE FOGARTYs recently welcomed the arrival of a son (Mike HI) and the PAT KIT-REDGEs have brought fortli a daughter (Maureen). 
A note from Richmond, Ind., reports that the DAVE HOLTHOUSE family is moving to Cocoa. Fla. (the land of oranges and astronauts), where Dave and his brother will open a furniture store. Dave's wife, Carol, extends an invitation to all wcather-wcar>- Northerners to drop in on them at any time. ^ 
JACK WORKMAN writes from Chicago, whenV he is now engaged in a management training pro­gram with U.S. Steel. Jack reports that BOB FORSBERG was separated (from Uncle Sam, that is) last Julv, after which he returned to Peat. Mar%vick, Mitchell and Co. ROY MARTINELLO also took final leave of the armed forces recently. 
JOHN MACDONALD writes that he is now in medical internship in Jackson Memorial Hospital, Miami, Fla., and that he was married on September 8. 1962, to Miss Karen A. Day of Cleveland and Rosemont College. The Macdonald'< are residing in Miami. John also reports that JOHN CHOBY is in internship at Parkland Memorial Hospital, Dallas; and BOB LEN.\R is iiw internship at Jackson Memorial of Miami. Ou^ ' congratulations to the recent medical graduates. 
Another new M.D. is FRANK PUGLIESE, who graduated from Hahnemann Medical College last June. Frank will intern at Baylor Univ. Medical Center in Dallas, and plans to stay there for a thoracic and heart surgery* residency, and possibly to settle there. 
GERALD (TINY) RYAN recently dropped us a note, which he claims to have intended sending lor at least four years, notifying us that he is now engaged in the general insurance brokerage business in Chicago. Tiny is married with a one-year-old daughter. 
Finally, an interesting letter from JU.AN "CHICO" TORRUELLA arrived last May from E\Tea\ Air Base, France. A summarv' of its con­tents is as follows: .After graduation Cluco (having received a commission in the .Air Force) entered transportation school and from there was sent ovcr ^ seas. Since that time, he has been involved i V aerial rc-suppIy (delivering personnel and equipment via parachute). The job has taken Chico to more than fifty operating locations, ranging from Oslo. Norway, to Capetown, South .Africa, and Eastward to New Delhi, India. He spent sbc months in thf Congo during the recurrent crises, in the airlift operations there. Diversity has been the b>^vord of Chico's lour, it would seem, since he has seen the tragedies of the typhoons of Pakistan, the earth­quakes of Agadir. and of Congo; the tension of the Lebanon airlift, and the more enjoyable duijA of flying escort duty on President Eisenhower" 
tour of Europe. Due tu the Berlin situation, Chlco*s tour was extended a year, but he was 
• Bnally released last June, whereupon he committed himself for an extended tour of marital duty on June 16. 
While in Europe, Chico picked up the following news. BOB WATERS and family arc stationed in France. TOM SWIATOWSKI and wife arc in Woodbridgc, England, where he is flying F-IOO fighters. ALGIS K. RYMKUS is flying the F-lOO in Tripoli, Libya. BOB AfcHALE is with the Army in France. CHICO TORRUELLA is cur­rently back in Santurcc, Puerto Rico, (2073 Mc-Lcary Street) in the family business, and extends an invitation to anv and all to drop in for a rum and Coke. FRED TORRUELLA Chico's brother, is at Yale working tou-ards his Ph.D. in Nuclear Ph>-5ics. And RON JEBAVY is a para­
^^rooper first lieutenant with the 504th Airborne Infantr\% stationed in Germany. He and Chico met each other over a drop zone in Southern France. 
That, gentlemen, is the sum and subi^tancc of the news for this issue. Before closing, however, let mc make mention of the next red-Ieltt-r dale on the class calendar. Tiiat is, of course, tJic F1VE-YE.-\R REUNION OF THE CLASS OF 1958, to be held next June. To those of you who Iiave been attending our annual football-wcckcnd reunions, I need not point out how cnio>'ablc it is to sec the laces of friends and classmates again. But these football reunions arc, of necessity, ver>* brief and informal. The five-year reunion takes place over a weekend—from Friday to Sunday; and ^fTords an opportunity to spend considerably more 
^im c together, recalling good times, seeing the campus again (with its massive expansion) and learning all the news of fellow class members. So tr>' your best to attend, you won't regret it. Considerably more news will, of course, be forth­coming by mail in the next few months. Mean­while, don't forget to join the crowd at THE LIO.XS DEN, HOTEL HOFFMAN. AFTER THE MICHIGAN STATE GAME on Oct. 20. 
From the Alumni Ollicc: 
f
.-\cadcmic Notes: MARTIN JOSEPH Cx\RROLL, JR., of Pittsburgh won an M.S. in industrial administration from Carnegie Tccli to supplement his degree in M.E. DR. JOSEPH J. KEPES of Cleveland and the Ph.D. Class, former senior tomic scientist for Pittsburgh's Weatinghousc EIcc­ric Corp., has been appointed associate professor and chairman of the department of physics at the University of Dayton. DONALD A. MUSICH made juris doctor at DePaul U., Chicago. THEODORE 
J. COLLINS won an LL.B. and THOM.VS H. O'BRIEN an M.B.A- at Harvard. KENNETH JOHN DcBENEDICriS was graduated with an 
M.D. from JcfTerson Medical College, Philadclplita. and interns at Filkiii Memorial Hospital, Neptune. 
N.J. THOMAS NILAN FOGERTY of Allcniown, Pa., took an M.S. in metallurgical engineering from Lehigh University. DR. MARVIN J. La-HOOD, a Class M.A., got his Ph.D. at N.D. (with a study of novelist Conrad Richter) and Rejoined the Niagara University in lime for the 
Summe r session. Mar\" and his wile Marjorie arc on perpetual honeymoon at Niagara Falls. DR. BILL GRIFFIN, recently graduated from the State 
U. of N.Y. College of Medicine, is currently intern­ing with the U.S. Na%y at St. Alban's, N.Y. GONZALO J. HERNANDEZ was auarded a Ph.D. in chcmistr>- at the U. of Rochester. ROBERT 
M. BENO made LL.B. and BERNARD E. Mc-GIVERN, JR., D.D.S. at Western Reserve U., Cleveland. 
The Militar>-: DONALD J. CORBETT trained with the National Guard as a cannoneer at field artillcr\- school. Fort Sill, Okla. With an LL.B. from Albany (N.Y.) Law School, Don was prac­ticing with Carey & Corbett in Rochester before being activated. South Bend's 1st Lt. JAMES A. GUSHING switched from reser\c to regular .-Mr Force commission as a captain commanding the 350th Support Squadron at Sidi Alimanc Air Base, 
^(orocco. North Africa. Jim's wife is the former uarolyn Schultz of Lincoln. Neb. And Army 1st Lt. GERALD H. FISCHER lias been maneuver­ing with the 14th Armored Cavalrj* Regiment in Germany. Executive officer of the regiment's 50Ist Armored Medical Company in Fulda. Germany. Don has been overseas since October, 1961, and is accompanied bv Iiis wife Mar\'. 
.Miscellaneous: HERBERT L. deNEURlE was honorably discharged from the .Mr Force at Barks-dale Air Base, Shreveport, La., and joined Trane ^i r Conditioning Co., LaCrosse, Wis., as a me­chanical engineer with the sales absorption depart­ment and eventually in sales. Herb (lew home in 
PEORIA —N.D . senior Kevin Heyd 
(center), who was presented with the Lt. James A. Cassidy memorial award for academic excellence at the annual back­to-school dinner, appears with guest Michael Hewlett (left), Illinois state auditor of public accounts, and chairman John Manion. The award, a scroll and 
U.S. savings bond, is sponsored by Peoria lawyer John Cassidy in memor)* of his alumnus son. (Photo courtesy of the Peoria Journal Star.) 
June for the Firal Solemn .Mass of REV. MICHAEL 
J. DARCY, JR., in Union, .\. J. DAVID W. AYERS is training with Bank of ^Vmerica in South­ern California. And GUNNAR J. HOLM, with an 
M.S. from Penn State, is trainhig in physical chemistry' research with General Electric Research, Schenectady, N.Y. 
1959 
Dennis M. Ncad 6121 RobisonRd. Cincinnati, Ohio 

TO.M TRINLEY has been separated from the .\'a\-y and is now employed as a Chemical Engineer with the DuPont Corporation in Chicago. 
After a return of six months to active duty and not meriting one promotion the Army discharged 
T. Y. HAYES to civilian life again. T. Y.'s wife Sharon just presented the first Hayes addition, Michael John, weighing eight lbs. seven ounces. The proud father is now employed with Kemper Insurance. 
TOM LEE was married to Miss Mar>' Geraldinc Eldredge this past August 4th at the Church of St. Luke in Saint Paul, Minnesota. 
After completing the three-year Na\y tour, JOHN HAYWARD was married to Miss Mar^• Beth Ludwig on the 25th of August in Muskegon, Michigan. To the best of my knowledge John will commence law school this fall but I am not sure of the university. 
MARK SHIELDS was married to Miss Ann Marie Sullivan on the 25tli of .\ugust at Our Lady of Hope Church in Springfield, Mass. 
After a year's service with the .Arthur Young Accounting firm MARK KESSENICH %vill start business school at Wharton this fall; there will be plenty of room for the Navy game in Philadelphia. 
Stationed aboard the USS Forrestal, JOE SHAW is flying radar picket planes at present but will be advanced into the jet age in the very- near future. 
J. J. AMXVNN, a former Lt. Jr. Grade based at Fort Campbell, Kentucky, has returned to Chicago but his employment is unknown. 
JOE SCHAEFER is a 1st Lt. in the Air Force presently based at Selfridge Air Force Base, Michigan. 
TOM BOHMER will return to the teaching pro* fession this fall at the University of Kentucky and Sycamore High School; this stmuner he tau^t tennis at the Winding Hollow Country Club in Co­lumbus, Ohio. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Since writing the above items. Secretary DENNY NEAD went to war —i.e., put in some August reserve duty at Camp Pickett, Va. — and changed to Hartfoiti Life Iiuurance Co. in Cincinnati,­where he'll be easier to find in the future. Private First Class THO.MAS MONROE LALLEY has been in the Army since March, 1961, and w-as recently transferred from Bamberg to the Leighton Education Center at Wurzburg, Germany, where he is teaching five-week courses. Just address Tom as I759677I, Leighton Education Center, APO 800, New York, N.Y. JOSEPH PETER HIRL com­pleted his Naiy officer obligation, most of it ser\ed aboard the destroyer Conway at Norfolk, in June. Two weeks later Joe married ^fargaret McLcmorc, a Marymount College grad, in San .•\ntonio, Tex. They are living at 310 Valencia Mesa Dr., Apt. 6, Fullerton, Calif., and Joe h working at Hughes .Aircraft Co. as an engineering instructor. 
Among the intelligentsia, ANTONIO S. AR.A­NETA, JR., can currently be found at Lincoln College, Oxford, England. DAVID D. GRIFFIN took an LL.6. from Harvard. At the University of Rochester, N.Y., M.S. degrees went to DANIEL 
F. CAHILL in radiation biology and to ROBERT 
A. SCHAEFFER in mechanical engineering. ED­WARD W. TREACY, JR., won his M.B.A. at Rutgers, State U. of New Jersey. .And both D.A.\IEL T. CLANCY and WILLIARf H. LOGS­DON were awarded an LL.B. at Western Reser\-c in Cleveland. 
1960 
John F. Gcier 
715 La Crosse Avenue 
Wlmctte, Illinois 

In .Vcw York City JOHN DRESK.A was married on June 30 to his New York sweetheart, Mary Lurana McLoughlin. John and Lurana spent their honeymoon at Cape Cod and later returned to Fort Dl\, New Jersey, where John is stationed as a lieutenant in the Army. Sorin Hall's PETE COR­RIGA N Avas best man. Indidentally, Pete, \\*ho spent an extra year at N.D. to earn a degree in math-engineering, has lost over sixty pounds and is now a trim 160. 
.Army Lieutenant BRUCE COS.ACCHI was mar­ried June 16 to CaroI-.Annc Marie Puis at Hemp­stead, Long Island. Bruce, who led the N.D. band during the football games, was from Sorin. 
Trackman TOM KEEG.AN was married in Rochester, New York on August 4 to Ann Afaric /Vman. a graduate of Nazareth College of Rochester. DAVE LEICHT u-as in the wedding party. Dave finished his tour of duty with the U.S. .Army in the West and returned to Rochester and joined the firm of Bastian Brothers, Inc., a national jewelr>' manufacturer where he will specialize in the sales oi college rings. 
Rochester, New York . . . DAVE SAIkfUELSON took his nuptial vows on July 14 when he married Kay Barrett of Webster, N.Y. Dave, a former president of the Rochester N.D. Club, is in the advertising dixrjsion of the Rochester newspaper. The Democrat and Chronicle. A large body of 
N.D. students and graduates attended the wedding. Dave spent two weeks in New England on his honeymoon. His wife Kay was graduated from Nazareth College and is presently teaching grade scliool. 
The 1962 Class rcum'oa will be held after the Michigan State-Notre Dame game on October 20. Other Classes have pre-empted the O'Shaughncssy basement bimge and the Hotel HoflTman Lions Den, former location of the get-together, but a location will be atmountxd by game time. 
The Class plans reunions after the UCL.\ game (Oct. 19, 1963) and the Stanford game (Oct. 19, \9Gt) before the Fi\-e-Year Re­union on the campus, June 11-12-13, 1965. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 49 
From the Almnni Office: The Military-: Lt. DAVID H. KELSEY has dis­continued the ppacticc of law in Albuquerque, N.M., for two years in the Army. Dave is assigned to the Army Intelligence Scliool, Fort Holabird, Baltimore, Md., teaching constitutional law and wdence. JEROME J. DELAY III of Downers Grove, 111., has been promoted to first lieutenant as a member of the 708th Ordnance Battalion in Germany. At Fort Bcnning, Ga., 1st Lt. MICHAEL 
R. McKEE completed officer orientation and the ranger course at The Infantr>' School. Reservist Mike got an M.A. from Columbia U.. Neu' York, in 1961. Second Lt. THOMAS J. McCAREY fin­ished artillerj- officer orientation last June at the .\rmy Artillery and Missile CenltT, Fori SiU, OWa. Tom had been working for Pratt & Whitney Air­craft in East Hartford, Conn. PIERCE E. De-GROSS was assigned as an information specialist in Company B of tJic 24th Infanir>- Division's 724ih Ordnance Battalion in Augsburg, Germany, after training at Fort Dix, N.J. His wife Eleanor is with him in Germany. .A.rmy 2nd Lt. JOHN R. O'BRIEN finished an air transport course at Fort Eustis, Va., in August. He's an instructor in aerial transportation training in Company A ot the 5th Di\-ision*s 6Ist Infantry at Fort Carson, Colo. WILLL\M C. TROY is a military- policeman after training at Provost Marshal General School at Fori Gordon. Bill was working for Lawrence Scuddcr & Co., Chicago, before entering the Army for basic training at Fort Leonard AVood last March. Second Lt. ROBERT T. PIGORS finished pilot instructor training at Randolph Air Force Base and returned to Williams .AFB, Ariz. Bob's wife is the former Pegg>' Berger of Elkhart, Ind. And Isi Lt. JAMES A. FOWLER, an F-lOO pilot, went to Itazukc Air Base, Japan, for duly with a Pacific Air Forces unit-
School Stuff: Kansas City's TERRENCE NOLAN CONWAY made M.S. in industrial administration at Carnegie Tech. ROBERT J. DIERSING got an ^LS. from Ohio Stale lo enhance his mctallurg>' training. ROBERT G, SALINGER of Reading, Pa., picked up bis M.S. at Rutgers (State U. of N.J.) last June. And JOSEPH M. HILGER got a master's degree from Temple's School of Business and Public Administration in Philadelphia. 
Finally, FRANCIS J. .MOOTZ, JR., of Indian­apolis, has gone to Texas City, Tex., to Join the manufacturing department of Monsanto Chemical Company's hydrocarbons di\Tsion. And THOXLAS 
E. GIBNEY, JR., has joined the policy 5er\ices ilafT of the American Road Insurance Company division of Ford Motor Company, 
1961 
Nick Palihnich 34 Dartmouth Road West Orange, N. J. 
Liberation at last! I don't think I ever realized just hovs- much I enjoyed being a civilian until Uncle Sam beckoned lo me last Januar>-. Now that my active service obligation is completed, I only have five years of weekly meetings to look fonvard to. However after experiencing six months of Army jlfe, the better part of which was spent in an advanced infantr>* training program, I think that I would be happy to allciid National Guard meetings for the rest of my life. 

I think Uic most significant bit of news since writing the last .ALUMNUS article came from Class President PAT NEE. The Class of '61 has entered the political scene, Pat Nee ran on the Democratic ticket for Representative of Ward 20 in the Boston area. Although he informed me that the odds were against him, knowing Pat I am sure this will have Httlc bearing on the out­come of ihc election. 
I received a vcr>* nice letter from JIM MID-DENDORF's wife Gay, who infonned mc of the new arrival in their family, James Jr., on May 11, 1962. Jim Sr. Is now working as an apprentice mortician al his father's funeral parlor, this fall he will take courses in this field for one year at the University of Cincinnati. I also received a birth announcement from Mr. and Mrs. DAN MITCH­ELL, a baby boy Daniel Patrick, born on the 23rd of June, 1%2. 
While serving my six months active duty I was invited to the marriage of B.\RRY SCHLINE and Miss Mary Louise Herbst. They were married the faurth of June in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. Unfortunately Uncle Sam prevented me from attending the ceremony. JOEL HAGGARD and DON RALPH, of the Class were ushers iti the 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, October^ 2962 
CHAPLAIN WBLLUM J. CLASBY (Col., USAF) preached all the conferences for the Big Retreat in August at Our Lady o( Lourdes Grotto on the campus. For the first time in the 44-year history of the annual spiritual conference, the Big Re­treat was opened to >vives and teen-age children. Conducted by the Holy Cross Mission Band since 1918, it is the lai^est lay retreat of its kind, with an average at­tendance of 1400. Aliunni can make rcscr­\-ations for the Big Retreat or retreats held year-round at Fatima Retreat House by ^Titing to the Retreat Director, Notre Dame, Ind., or phoning CEntral 4-9906, South Bend. 
Wedding ceremony. Nly next door neighbor in Sorin Hall and vcr>- close friend, PAT McINTYRE, married Eileen Hirkala on July 14, 1962 in St. Patrick's Church, Cleveland, O. 
JOHN "RED" BOWLING (in there), a 2nd Lt. in the Army, is currently stationed at Ft. McPhcarson in Atlanta, Ga. Previous to this the Redhead had completed a ninc-wcck officer orien­tation program at Ft. Gordon, Ga., and seven weeks of training at Ft. Monmouth, N.J. VINCE NASO also completed the officer orientation pro­gram at Ft. Gordon. Another Class of *6I gradu­ate in the same program at Ft. Gordon, BOB G.ANSER, was sent to Fort Bliss, Tex., upon completion of the course. FRANK G.\RGIULO was stationed at Fifth Army Headquarters in Chi­cago, after completing the training at Ft. Gordon. The "Major's .Assistant," ARNIE LEPORATI, completed six months of marine training on July 23, 1962. He is now contemplating the possibility of working for Burlington Mills in their sales de­partment, providing of course he doesn't replace the *'Major" in the Bronx ball park. 
A great deal of news concerning the Class of '61 Peace Corps representatives, thanks to a ver>* infonnative letter from MIKE CURTIN. Mike is tiow living and working in Santiago, Chile, as an assistant to the head of the Department of Com­munity Development. In May of 1962, Mike be­came engaged to Miss Anne O'Grady, S.M.C., '60 and as he so ably put it. "even If you go 6,000 miles they still hook you." Ver>- true Mike . . . very true. TOM PAULICK is stationed in Ran­cogua, Chile, and is teaching phj-sical education courses in the education department of that town. DA\'E COOMBS is preaching the educational doctiinc of consimier's cooperatives to the people of Chilian, Chile. Along with Dave in Chilian, JOE KEYERLEBER is working in rural community development and also in instructing urban boy scout groups in the area. Teaching principles of com­munity development among the Mapuckc Indians^ JIM FITZGERALD is the southernmost represen­tative of the Class of '61, being stationed in the town of Chal-Chal, Chile, 800 miles south of San­tiago. MARTY RONAN is in charge of the distribution of all audlo-x-isual aids for the Instl^ tution of Rural Education in Santiago. He is also editor of the Peace Corps' newsletter, "EI Pisca­rino.'* 
News from my Northwestern Area Representa­tive: JOEL HAGGARD infonned mc that NICK CHESTER is still working in San Francisco, Calif.. for the United California Bank. From all reports, Nick has found the banking business anything but a dull routine. After graduation, FRED GAMBLE worked as a manufacturer's representative in the Salt t^ke City, Utah, area for the eight Western States. In Jaiiuar>' he entered the U.S. Coast Guard and graduated from boot c:unp with top honors in his company. Immediately after gradua­tion BRENDON O'NEILL entered an ad\-anccd management training program with Metropollla^ Life Insurance Co. In September of 1961, he entered tlic Air Force from the Notre Dame 
R.O.T.C. program and is now a property account­ing and material facilities officer at Moody A.F.B. in Georgia. BILL H.ALL Is also stationed at Moody 
A.F.B. but not in the same capacity. Bill is In a pilot training program. MIKE MONTELATICI is working for the accounting 6rm of Chanslon, Barblen and DeWhitt in Reno, Nev. Hi is present­ly serving six months active duty with the Army at Fort Ord, Calif. TONI KOSYDAR will com­plete courses for his M.S. degree at Washington State this .August. In the fall, he expects to work at Santiam Union in Mill City as a physical edu­cation instructor. DAN FERGUSON spent the past year working part time as a security poller^ man at the Capitol in Washington, D.C., whil™ also attending law school at American University. 
Carol and DAN MITOLA, married in June of 1961, arc now living in Montclair, N.J., as a result of Dan being stationed in Newark, N.J., by the .Army. GARY CONNELL married Maureen Conlon, a graduate of the University of Kansas. June 29, 1962 in Albuquerque, N.M. Another Notre Dame graduate fixing in Albuquerque, JOE OGURCHAK, is working for Sandia and should be a father by the time this article is released. "BIG ED'* DALY of Chicago and Miss Dorothy Dunn of"* the same city and also S.M.C. '61 were married June 30, 1962. Ed is an Ensign in the Na\-y and is currently attached to an attack trans­port out of Norfolk, Va. 
Dorothy and GEORGE LESNIK arc still living in the Chicago area, although they hope lo retur^ to New York this fall. Tlie couple is also expecting their first-b'om sometime in the fall. JIM "RALPH KRAMDON" .MADDEN is driving a bus during the summer months in Chicago. In the fall he will return to Loyola Medical School. DAVE WIL­LIAMS is currently working for a bank in the Chicago Loop. After completing a year's study in retailing at New York University, MICKEY RYAN is now working at his grandfather's depart­ment store in Chicago. BILL SNOOKS is working as an accountant for Ilaskins and Sells in St. Louis. Mo. BILLY POGUE is doing vcr>- well at the First National Bank in Chicago. 
Tills next paragraph pertains to those Noli^ Dame nu-n who arc currently dating St. Mar>"™ women. Its purpose Is to give fair warning! TOM RY.AN and "that girl" from S.\f.C. '61 were married this summer, however I have no date for this momentous occasion. His former roommate, DON HICKEY, is engaged to niarr>- Barbara Breen, also S.M.C. '61; once again I have no date. Brother, you talk about "Whips," Hctzler, Ryan, and Hlckey, I can hardly believe it. Tliank God my former roommate is still preserx'lng the reputa­tion of the "Notre Dame Man." (That's close.) 
RON SILVERA completed a year of graduate %vork in Business ifanasemrnt at Santa Clara In California, where he also had a teaching assistant­ship. TODD EMiVNUEL completed his first year of medical school at St. Louis University. TOM KRONER is another '61 graduate studvlng medi­cine at St. Louis. BILL HEINBECKER is doing graduate work in Engineering at Washington Uni­versity. He was recently elected vice-president ^ the Newman Club at that university. ED KO.M­PARE finished his first vcar at Illinois Medical School. KEVIN CURRAN also completed his first year of medical school at the University of Mis­souri. D.AVE McCANN finished a vcr\' successful first year at Fordham Law School by being written up in the Law Review. BOB COYLE Is working as a law clerk this summer In Morristown, N.J., for the firm of Porzio, Blumberg, and Newman. He will return to Catholic University this fall to complete his second year of law school. ^ 
TIM HINCHEY Is getting to sec a great dcW of the world, thanks to the Navy. He h> currently ihe navigator aboard the U.S.S. Nav-asota, and 
A when last heard from he was heading for Hong Kong after a visit "down under" to Australia. BOB WOEHL, although attached to a Navy de­stroyer based In Hawaii, still found time to attend an engineering scliool in California. BILL BROD­ERICK is also riding the high seas aboard the 
U.S.S. Ticondcroga, a Na^y attack carrier in the Pacific. PAT FEENEV and BILL MURPHY, both 2nd Lts. In the Army, are currently stationed at the Army base in Sandia, New Mexico. TOM ZIPPRICH Is attending the Na\T*s officer candi­date school at Newport and is scheduled to join the fleet soon. JACK SKUPIEN is going through the adjutant generzd school at Ft. Benjamin Harri­son In Indiana. After completing this training he will be sent to Gcrmanv for eighteen months. 
BILL SOULE and TONY DeHARO are In the 
• same program as "Scoop*' at Benjamin Harrison. Another '61 graduate, TOM McCARTHY is Post Mess Officer on the base. PAUL BOGNAR is currently serving six months active duty at Ft. Leonard Wood, Mo. I am very happy to announce that the mid-central stales of Iowa, Missouri, Kansas, and Colorado now have an area representative. I would like to thank DENNY aVNTWELL for volunteer­ing for this job. Den has just completed his first year of medical school at St. Louis University. All Notre Dame graduates living In these four states can reach him at the following address: 1601 Grape .\venue, St. Louis 15, Missouri. 
I have been In contact with Class President PAT NEE, and we are in the process of setting up a
• class reunion at the Syracuse game in the fall of 1963. Tltc game will be played at Yankee Stadium in New York City. However, It will be possible to scat the Class of '61 together. There Is one vcr>' important catch in the whole program, la. Decem­ber of 1962 a ticket application form will be sent out to a mailing list comprised of "contributing" alunml. This will be a first mailing list and all that is then required Is that you attach a note to your return, stating thai you wish to be seated with the Class of '61. However to be included on this December mailing list, which Is tlie only list that will honor your request to be seated in Class of '61 section, you must be a "contributing" alumnus. To achieve this latter distinction, you must contribute at Ie:tst one dollar. This makes one a legitimate "contributing" alumnus. You ^^will receive more information on the entire reunion ^^ n a circular that will be distributed this fall. 
I have bad a great deal of correspondence, thanks to the excellent work of my area representatives. Because of a space limitation I was unable to include all news items, however they will definitely be covered in the next issue. Thank you for your cooperation-
From the /Murani Office: At the risk of some duplications, licrc'» i>ome news from U\c Armed Forces. JAMES L. SHJVNA­HAN, after basic training at Fort Leonard Wood last spring, was assigned to the Army Garrison at Fort Leavenworth, Kan. National Guardsman ^TIMOTHY D. COLLINS finished supply training ^^ast June at the Armor Center, Fort Knox, Ky, JAMES M. CONNOLLY got his Air Force com­mission after training at Lackland AFB, Tex. Jim is being reassigned to Malstrom AFB, Mont., after training at Chanutc Field, 111. LEO J. WACHTER, JR., made PFC as a staff member at the Army Finance School, Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. Leo's wife Barbara is with him in Indianapolis. ROBERT 
J. LORENZ finished a postal operations course at adjutant general school, Fort Benjamin Harrison. National Guardsman COLIN T. SUTHERL.\ND finished training In August under the Reser\c Forces Act Program at Fort Chaffee, Ark. Second Lt. WILLIAM E. HALL of Scarsdale, N.V., won his pilot's wings at Moody AFB, Ga., after a year of jet training. After survival training at Stead AFB, Nev., and instructor training at Randolph Field, Bill Is being reassigned to Reese AFB, Tex. His wife is the former Pat Hanley of White Plains, ^.Y . MICHAEL L. HENN finished with honors 
^ n a supply and parts specialist course at trans­portation school. Fort Eustis, Va., in August. JOHN H. ZAUGG will be In Monterey, Calif., until next May studving Russian at the Army's language school. CHARLES C. HOFFMAN is with the 529th Military' Police Company in Ger­many. Entering the Army last December, he has been overseas since May. Army 2nd Lt. THOMAS 
F. MONTELONE finished signal officer orienta­tion at Fort Gordon, Ga., while another shavetail, JAMES P. HICKEY, JR., qualified as an infantry 
Afficer at nearby Fort Bennlng. And WILLIAM 
L. WERNER was honor grad In the ground crew course at Chanutc AFB. 111. 
Electrical engineer RAYMOND THOMAS BEN­DER also has an M.B.A. from Washington Uni­versity, St. Lom*s. PAUL D. PAGE is in the actuarial department of New York Life Insurance Co. Recently married, WILLIAM B. MAQUIRE Is now living at 260 Congressional Lane, Apt. 201, Rockxilie, .\td. EDWARD J. McCAFFERTY has joined the Civil Ser\*ice as a public Information specialist for the Army Chemical Center, Md. And the latest Peace Corps volunteer, JAMES W. .Mc-KEEVER, finished training and took a brief breather at his Brooklyn home In June before leavint; for the Republic of the Philippines. 
Low Class of 1961 
John N. Mordand Assistant County Attorney WapcUo County Court House Ottumwa, Iowa 

"Here's Koenig In the desert, fans." begins the oldest item of mail I have. It's from none other than JOHN D. PLATTNER, who ulslics to report that his address is U.S. S.S. 723 371, U.S.A.G. (6019—00), Ft. Invln, Barstow, California. King also reports that JOHN COFFEY is a short 175 miles from him in San DIcgo. 
A lengthy letter from SAM LUFF informs us that Suzanne Marie was bom on the 28th of November last, and that DAVE KELSEY will be in Baltimore, Md., for the remainder of his service hitch. Sam also said that he has seen some of D.-VVE LINK'S work come through the office, since LufTo has been doing mostly tax court work. Luff's address: 1722 
S.E. Mulberry, Portland, 14. 
MIKE O'BRIEN sends his regards to all from Springfield, Illinois. He has been travelling the state trj'Ing cases for the Attorney Central's office, mostly criminal appeals plus some trial work. 
Tlie lack of material makes this column short of course, so let's have a few lines for the next edition from the rest of you. 
1962 
Terrcnce McCarthy 23420 WcUington Aft. Clements, Mich. 

The past summer found classmates embarked on new ways of life and on nc*v careers. Take for example those who have married; congratulations are overdue to NICK BUONICONTI, GEORGE WILLIAMS and MIKE HIGGINS, who were mar­ried this past spring. Others, too, who have joined the married ranks and to whom we send our congratulations, include D.\N CASTELLINI to Joya Rendler; JIM G.VEDE to Sally Ryan, and MAX BURNELL to Sue Decker. Also the mar­ried men include J. T. PHILLIPS, BILL FORD, VINCE BOYEN, ROGER WILKE, ED CON­NOLLY. LOU RUVOLO, TOM NOONAN, P.\T BOOKER, JOHN HOFF, RON V.\NUCHI, MILE GROLMES and PAT HUGHES. .Vot to mention AU-Slar ANG D.ABIERO. It was my pleasure to personally attend the wedding of D.-\N O'DO­HERTY to Kathcrine Slavich on August 11th in Detroit and to lend my moral support to ROGER H.-\RVEY, who married Janet Schultz in their home town of Latrobe, Pa., on .August l8. 
Four of our classmates spent some time in Europe. No, they were not there as guests of Uncle Sam! Thev arc a\R L EBEY and BILL SULLIVAN, both of Detroit; JI.M (.MardI Gras) S.MITH of Chicago, and PEDRO BELTRvVN of Lima, Peru. 
Speaking of new careers, I'd like to give a run­down on the future N.D. men in space or at least the sky. Flight school at Pensacola is training CHARLES BAYER, JIM COYLE, A t DELP, CRIS FOLEY, MIKE HANLEY and CHARLES SWITZER as Nav>* trainees. Two marine trainees can be found there In the persons of LARRY GAGGERO and KEN KELLY. The .-Mr Force, not to be outdone, also has some N.D. gu>-s. 
There Is DENNIS MADDEN, H. J. SCHNEE­BERGER, DENNIS O'CONNEL, JEMtY WICH and DENNY STROJNY. By now everyone should have received his copy of "The Alumnt Direc­tory." If you have not received one please notify me. In dosing, remember the success oF such a class column as this depends solely on the infor­mation that you send to me or the Area Repre­sentatives (they are listed in the Aliunni Directory), so for a more comprehensive coverage send infor­mation about you and yours to our reps. 
From the Alumni Office: 
DR. LAYVRENCE BALDINGER, assodate dean of the College of Sdcnce for pre-professional studies, called it to our attenUon that South Bend's JOHN 
L. HORVATH, JR., has continued in his scholar­ship-winning ways. A fotur-year St. Jfweph Valley Alumni Club scholar at N.D., John has been awarded $2,000 by the March of Dimes to continue his education at the IncUana University School of Medlrine. John's brother, GEORGE HORVATH. '60, was a recipient of the grant two years ago. 
EUGENE W. TUTTE Is an insurance broker with his father's Eugene Tuite & Co., Inc., in New York City. Gene married Katherine Barron of River Forest, 111., and after a Caribbean honey­moon they set up housekeeping In Fort Lee, N.J. Three 2nd lieutenants finished orientation in June after January graduation: ROBERT P. GUNN be­came a finance officer at Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind., and was assigned to 107th Finwice Disbursing Section, Fort Bragg, N.C.; EDWARD F. BUKOW­SKI and EDWIN P. MURRAY were broken in at the transportation school. Fort Eustis, Va. 
Hiree chemical engineers joined three different plants of Monsanto Chemical Co. VINCENT E, BOYEN is with the technical services department of the plastics division at the Springfield, Mass., plant. PAUL A. ERZER is In technical services at the ^VIlllam G. Krummrich Plant, Monsanto, 111., organic chemicals division. And JAMES R. MURPHY is in the technical scr\-lixs department at the John F. Queeny Plant, St. Louis, also organic chemicals. 
Finally, a Ph.D. classmate, DR. ROBERT E. GLENNEN, JR., joined the faculty of Eastern Montana College in his native Billings, Mont., as an assistant professor of education. Formerly he taught at our CS.C. University of Portland, where he took bachelor and master's degrees. 
^ 
YOU CAN HELP 
NOTRE DAME 
BY 
Sending a personal contribution 
Submitting names of friends inter­ested in the University 
Advising N.D. Foundation Office if your company has a 'plan of giving" 
Informing University of your cor­poration's 'areas of interest' 
Remembering the University in your Will or Bequest 
Contributing gifts other than money 
(i.e. paintings, equipment, books, etc.) 
Naming the University as a benefici­ary in your insurance policy 
Listing names and addresses of Foun­dations in your community 
UNivEBsrrv OF NOTKE DAHE FOUNDATION, 
NOTKE DAUE, INDIANA 

Nofri Dame Alumnus, October, 1962 51 
HOW THE CLASSES STAND 
Percentage of Membership Participating in the 1962 Alumni Fund and the Challenge Appeal of the Notre Dame Foundation. 
(Reported as of August 31, 1962) 

Class No, of Contributors Percentage of Contributors Percentage Challenge of Alumni Since Jan. 1.1962 Participation during 1961 for 1961 Total 
1900 & before .. 50 5 10.0 9 18.0 $ 11,183.70 1901 . 10 1 lO.O 1 10.0 806.00 1902 : 15 2 13.3 3 20.0 41.00 1903 .._ .. 14 2 14.2 • 3 : 21.4 549.00 1904 ._... 14 2 14.2 : 5: .35. 7 8,355.00 1905 18 5 27.7 6 / 33.3 3,620.00 1906 28 6 21.4 10 .35.7 7,923.66 1907 _„. 18 2 11.1 6-33.3 835.00 1908... _... 25 1 4.0 . 6 . 24.0 848.00 1909 : : 27 ; 2 7.4 : 5 18.5 1,230.00 1910 26 5 19.2 7 26.9 9,031.00 1911 53 8 15.0 , 18. 33.9 11,704.23 1912 . .. 51 11 21.5 12 - 23.5 22.273.18 1913 56 13 . 23.2 17 30.3 6,638.00 
1914 68 12 . 17.6 19 , 27.9 6,429.03 1915 59 20 33.8 ,1 8 30.5 13,979.68 1916 61 17 27.8 22 36.0 139,175.56 
1917 92 19 20.6 .33 • 35.8 68,380.31 1918... 74 15 20.2 : 23 31.0 111,284.18 1919 63 7 11.1 12 19.0 4,721.03 1920 ... 81 12 14.8 ' 29 35.8 22,289.42 1921 105 18 17.1 ; 30 ; 28.5 44,376.47 1922 __.:. 173 30 17.3 59 ;: 34.1 41,849.77 1923 - 220 38 17.2 59 . 26.8 21,013.11 1924... . 215 35 16.2 . 65 -30.2 16,091.52 1925. . 293 67 22.8 109 , 37.2 40,155.39 1926..._ _: 248 52 20.9 ,8 9 35.8 48,268.55 1927 ; 388 74 19.0 109 ' 28.0 25,757.10 1928... : 461 76 16.4 146 31.6 45,958.60 1929 462 88 19.0 131 28.3 112,430.19 1930.. 488 94 19.2 123 25.2 66,444.23 1931 .. 502 104 20.7 133 : 26.4 82,748.43 1932 „ .... 506 80 .15.8 125 24.7 43,532.87 1933 ....._.. 553 112 20.2 158 28.5 58,342.63 1934 .___... 586 113 19.2 133 ; 22.6 23,053.85 1935 _. 550 . 88 16.0 146 26.5 49,380.29 1936 .. 427 78 18.2 104; • 24.3 36,620.31 1937 . : .... 456 79. 17.3 97 .21. 2 21.974.36 1938 . 514 : 118 22.9 134 26.0 23,809.20 1939..; _.. 555 98 : 17.6 146 26.3 30,365.93 1940 : .^ 640 . 144 22.5 176 27.5 47,948.59 1941. :.-..• 587 103 17.5 180 . 30.6 36,860.81 1942 : 595 118 19.8 164: 27.5 28,047.21 1943.. 576 123 21.4 ^ T--157 V ^ : 27.2 30,537.58 1944 „._. 586 139 . 23.7 , 166 ,28.3 86,434.29 1945 341 74 , 21.7 : ::85 : 24.9 22,769.83 1946...-:... 306 48 15.6 81 . 26.4 : 6,397.55 1947 : 700 139 19.9 142 v 20.2 15,629.03 
1948-—..: 1,034 243 23.5 ^271 • 26.2 34,603.83 1949 .„ 1,410 328 23.2 356/25. 2 61,804.32 1950.. .... 1,177 274: 23.2 315 ^ 26.7 80,804.42 1951. 898 225 25.0 262 29.1 29,510,26 1952„. : 1,107 254 22.9 247; 22.3 29,873.78 1953...-. :. 976 243 24.8 . ; 255 .. .26.1 31,196.64 1954. : 1,032 235 , 22.7 261 25.2 26,692.66 
1955... .._._ .. 992 237 23.8 242 24.3 20,378.18 1956 : .•..:.••... 1,111 257 . 23.1 . 243 : : -21.8 25,431.19 1957 „.^ ;... 1,163 267 22.9 266 22.8 19,325.31 
1958_:_.. .„ 1,264 273 . 21.6 268 21.2 25,333.53 1959 _„ _._. 1,260 208 16.5 269 21.3 16,834.75 1960 .„__.._.„ 1,297 206 15.8 191 14.7 .16,836.59 1961. : : 1,251 147 • 11.8 85 6.7 ^ 5,534.81 1962 . (No solicitation of gifts in graduation year) 48.00 
Undergraduates 23,498.76 IMPORTANT NOTE: The percentages show-n arc of cash Honorary Alumni 668,349.23 contributors in the given years, and £ e totals are cash gifts Notre Dame Clubs . 121,760.19 since Jidy 1, 1960. There are no class brcakdo^vns of combined Alumni Corporations 347,868.28 gifts and pledges in the Challenge period (1960 to date), but Gifts in Kind 3,793.69 cash is running well beUnd pledges. The participation of ^ ^ ^ alumni in the campaign-now stands at 47.7%. Total : §3,147,575.09 








