The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
VoL 37 No. 2 
p^ 

June 1959 


NOTRE 
James E. Armstrong, '3a 


DAME 
Editor 

ALUMNUS 
John F. LangUin, '48 Managing Editor 

UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT,  1959  
(Right) PHIL/\DELPHIA—John Cardinal O'Hara, C.S.C., '11, Archbishop of Philadelphia, received the annual Man­of-the-Year award of the Notre Danic Club of Philadelphia at this year's Universal Notre Dame Night in the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel. Rev. Theodore M. Hcsburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, was principal speaker.  
(Below) CHICAGO—Here is a portion of the 700 Notre Dame alumni and friends gathered at the massive U.N.D. Night ceremonies in Chicago's Sheraton Hotel. Laetare Medalist Robert D. Murphy and Father Hesburgh were among the distinguished guests. For a complete Universal Notre Dame Night report see the Notre Dame Club section.  
);'i  sommE  
*  . fSS  ALSO IN THIS ISSUE:  
'?  f  ^#I M  * Three Golden Jubilarians • Eve of a Reunion • 1959 Football Ticket Info * Grotto Indulgences Extended  
,w  

Flexibility! 
In an era of organization, plan, con­formit)', and structure, I find myself face to face with good Club presidents, Class secretaries, event chairmen. Foundation con­tributors, or gen­eral correspond­ents, who feel politely or more firmly that our Alumni Associa­tion policy is not 
James E. Armstrong possessed of the 
familiar charU and instructions to 
which tlieir corporate, cisac or paro­
chial life is accustomed. 
Even your Alumni Board, with total three-year turnover, tends to a little justifiable exasperation, as does the University' administration and faculty, that our programs and our response in our alumni world seem to fluctuate, or to lack the predictibility of actuarial tables or AU-American teams. 

I have suspected, even without out­side suggestion, that 33 years might produce resistance to change; that old age might produce a weariness \vith routine: that the bright light of inspira­tion might be a kerosene holdover. So 1 have been unusually objective in my analysis of our fle.xibilit>'. Because we are flexible! 
I still find it not only good but es­sential. 
Basic argument for avoiding rigid structure is the fact that we work al­most with a completely voluntary' or­ganization in our Club and Class pro­grams. And without economic incen­tive, reward, or sanction, results — no matter how carefully planned — es­sentially fluctuate. ^Ve have kept our patterns flcvible so that tliey will shape with the fluctuation, not crack. 
For almost ten important years — 1929 io 1939 — our organization ex­pansion was handicapped by an inde­pendent Association budget based on dues that did not permit eitlier staff or mechanics to do more than move with the amazing but varj-ing tides of volunteer acti\'ities. 

The next ten years — 1940 to 1950 
— were largely occupied with the un­precedented adaptation of our pro­grams to years of war, and years of post-war adjustment, that taxed ever)­
2 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 

Alumni Secretary 
resource to keep within even our fle.\i­
ble pattern. 
During the post-World AVar II years we suddenly found our Alumni Associ­ation growing, through record graduat­ing Classes, by percentages that doubled membership in a decade. 
One young Class in thb new era created a mailing problem almost as substantial as the total Reunion mail­ing problems of a decade earlier. 
Reunion attendance, once almost lost in the Commencement week end, now brings a thousand alumni back to the campus on a totally different week-end pattern. 
Two magazines for alumni suddenly emerged from the Foundation and .Mumni programs of 1948, to join a growing volume of correspondence. 
Clubs, some of them literally wiped out by AVorld \Var II and its drain of young men, resumed and mushroomed in new areas after the War. (From 97 in 1948 to 170.) 

In addition to this great physical growth we have encountered a brand new set of circumstances — men are more serious in their organizational approach, and the competition for time has jeopardized many older fraternal customs. "Lodge night" has gone out the window, and a meeting now must have more purpose. 
Even more significant in our study of the desirability of flexibility- is the study of today's college student — the alumnus of tomorrow. The sur\'ey says he is serious about his identity and his life. He is not attracted to organiza­tion. He is not moved by tradition. He fears conformit)'. He wants only limited .success, not the top stop in his business or profession. 
\Vhen you consider, as I liope you ^rill, the number of times we would have had to take our structure com­pletely apart had it been rigid; how unable we are to say now what will be our most effective blueprint for a de­cade ahead; how even the gospels that experience has written for Club and Class are subject to the x'arjing talents and zeals of officers — I hope you will recognize that over the years the Alumni Office has not ignored prac­tical progress, but has definitely hesi­tated to trade an effective pliabilit)' for a speculative rigor mortis. 
J.E.A. 


ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTOR?) 
Officers 
Fii.\NCis L. LAYDEN,'36—Honorary President WILLIAM E. COTTER, JR., '41 President JULES K. DE LA VERGNE, '33 
Club Vice-President RAYMOND W. DURST, '26 Class Vice-President LEO J. VoGEL, '17 Fund Vice-President JAMES E. .ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary 
Directors to 1960 ^) 
LEO J. VoGEL, '17 286 Magnolia Place, Pittsburgh 28, Pa. RAYMO.VD W . DURST, '26 840 Lathrop Ave., River Forest, 111. 
JULES K. DE LA VERGNE, '33 413 Pere Marquette Bldg. New Orleans, Louisiana 
WILLIAM E. COTTER, JR., '41 114 Laurie St., Duluth 3, Minnesota 
Directors to 1961 
#) 
JOSEPH R. STEWART, '22 Kansas City Life Insurance Co. Box 139 Kansas City 41, Missouri 
CHARLES E. ROHR, '30* Rohr's, 1111 Chester, Cleveland, Ohio 
JAMES H . SHEILS, '35 McManus and Walker 39 Broadway, New York, New York 
JOHN C. O'CONNOR, '38 1000 Fidelity Trust Bldg. Indianapolis, Indiana 
* 
Directors to 1962 
JAMES J. BYRNE, "43 Byrne Pi>-%vood Company Royal Oak, Michigan 
PAUL J. CUSHI.NG, '31 Hydraulic Dredging Co., Ltd. 14th & Broadway, Oakland, Calif. 
WALTER FLEMI.N-G, JR., '40 Fleming & Sons, Inc. 
P.O.
 Box 1291, Dallas, Texas 

W.
 EDMUND SHEA, '23 Third National Building 


# 
Dayton 2, Ohio 
Gliairmen of the 1959 Committees 
W. E. COTTER Executive 
J. K. DE LA VERC.VE Club Actiaities 
R. W. Durst. Class Activities 
L. J. VOGEL 
Alumni Fund, Foundation and Gifts 
R. W. DURST Preparatory Schools 
L. J. VooEi^.-Placement and Job Counseli^ 
C. E. ROHR* Inter-Alumni Affairs 
J. R. STEWART Prestige and Public Relations 
J. H. SHEILS Religion and Citizenship 
J. R. STEWART AND 
J. H. SHEILS Jiominations 
J. C. O'Co.NNOR Budget and Finance 
L. J. VOGEL „ Mesolutions 
* Deceased 
This masazlne is published bi-mOQlhly br ^ the Univenity of Notre Dame. Notre ^ f Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. I, 1939, at the Post OfSce, Notie Dame, Ind. under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 

Golden Jubilarians: 
Yhree at N.D. Celebrate 50 Years in Priesthood 
In tlie nature of the priesthood and the Congregation of Holy Cross, it is |difficult to evaluate one member over 
another. You are not supposed to. 
But occasionally time and personal­ity, office or genius, will demand some special notice. This is one of those oc­casions. From the Province Review: 
"On June 26, 1909, in Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame, the Most Rev. Herman Alerding, then Bishop of Fort Wayne, ordained one of the — up to 
0hat time — largest number of Holy Cross priests to be ordained in this province. There were nine of them. Six of tliose priests have already died. They were Fathers Joseph Burke, George McNamara, Ernest Davis, John Ryan, John Delaunay and Albert Blin. The three who survive are Fathers Thomas Irving, Eugene Burke, and Cornelius Hagerty." 
^ In that one paragraph is so much of the history of Notre Dame during the last fifty years, so much of the ob­vious answer to Notre Dame's success 
— dedication, personalit)', competence, leadership, and the complete e-xample of the rich relationships that develop daily where religion and education, as Cardinal Newman enjoins, are "found in one and the same place and exem­
plified in the sqme persons." Of the diree jubilarians remaining, 
FATHER IRVING they are an editorial problem. First of all, they can tell far more about Notre Dame alumni than the ALUMNUS can tell about them. Secondly, their multiple virtues and talents defy our space limitations. And tliirdly, a book will be written about each of them, which should not be delayed by any ef­fort at proper description in these lim­ited pages. Nevertheless, just the occa­sion (and the fact that many alumni are younger) calls for a hopelessly in­adequate but suggestive sketch of three of tlie srreat men of Notre Dame. 

FATHER BURKE 

Father THOMAS P. IRVING was bom in Wisconsin, one of eleven chil­dren. He was graduated from Notre Dame in 1904 and received his doctor­ate in physics from Catholic University. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1909 and was later appointed superior of the Holy Cross Seminary. Teaching, a term as director of studies, and two terms as superior of Moreau Seminar\', filled Father Irving's earlier years. He served also as assistant Superior Gen­eral under Fatlier James W. Donahue, and later headed the department of re­ligion at Notre Dame. He has acted as student counselor and a member of the Provincial Council. 
In all of this you must see one com­mon factor that spotlights the great 
FATHER HAGERTY 

talent Father Irving has devoted to his work — the counseling of young men. When Brother Andre, the miracle worker of Montreal, told him in 1920 that St. Joseph would cure him of in­cipient tuberculosis, it was not only in­dicative of how close God and St. Jo­seph were to Brother Andre, but how generous they have been to Notre Dame. 
Father EUGENE P. BURKE, one of sLx children, is a native of Chicago. He fell under the spell of the late Father' John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and he and his brother, now Father Tom Burke, became two of the great contributions Father Cavanaugh made to the Congregation and the Univer­sity. Father Gene was graduated from Notre Dame in 1906 and studied Holy Scripture at Catholic U. where he re­ceived his doctorate and taught at Holy Cross College there. He returned to the Notre Dame faculty in 1914. In 1919 he went to Columbia (now the U. of Portland) as president. He returned to Notre Dame in 1928 where he be­came assistant provincial and aided and then succeeded Father Daniel Hudson as editor of the Ave Maria. In 1933 he joined the Notre Dame faculty as head of the English department and later the 
Department of Religion. He directed campus radio, arranged programs in Washington Hall, preached inspiring sermons and all those other varied anti vital things that never seem to begin to give you the picture of a great, a good, an inspiring, and a most pleasant priest. 
Fadier CORNELIUS J. HAGERTY is one of the natives of South Bend, a veteran of St. Patrick's parish and the 
(Continued on page 8) 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 



1959 FOOTBALL TICKET 
By ROBERT CAHILL, '34 Athletic Ticket Manager 

INFO FOR ALUMNI 
As we round out our twent%--fifth year in tlie Athletic Department, and begin our nineteenth season as Ticket Manager, we sx-mpathize with you fel­low alumni. You must tire of reading our annual rubrics, just as we vainly seek a fresh approach to the same old stuff. AVe're buoyed up each year though, in a negative sort of way, when we again become aware (as the season progi-esses) that many of you don't read tliis anj-way. Thus heart­ened by the fact that we apparently annoy only a segment of you each year, we give you once again the framework of alumni ticket distribution policy and methods. ^Vho knows — maybe ever)'­hody will read it this year! 

1.
 Contributors to the Sixteenth Annual Alumni Fund in 1958, religious and honorary degree holders, plus the June Class of 1959, are eligible for Advance Sale order fomis for the 1959 football season. PLEASE NOTE that a contribution SINCE Januaiy 1, 1959 assures ticket preference for 1960, but NOT for this cunent year of '59. 


2.
 Alumni Ad\-ance Sale opens June 20, closes July 15. 

3.
 Advance Sale order fornis are clearly identified as such bv the words "ALUMNI ADVANCE SALE" in bold tj'pe along the left edge of the form. These should be in the hands of eligi­ble alumni prior to June 20. If you have not received tliem by then and you are CERTAIN you qualify under Point 1 above, notify the Ticket Man­ager at once. All Alumni order forms are addressed by the Alumni Office, but prepared and mailed by the Ticket Office. \Ve shall gladly conect an error promptly upon notification. Hoii'cver, once a game is sold out, correction can become a knotty problem, regardless of where or how the error occuiTcd. Don't delay if you think you've been improperly passed over (most of you don't — I assure you). 

4.
 Advance Sale forms are limited to two tickets per game, are not trans­ferable, will be honored until July 15 or until the ticket supply is exhausted. 


 Notre Dame Alumnus,. JunCj 1959 

Scats are allotted in accordance with date received. Orders arriving BE­FORE opening day (June 20) are in­tegrated at random with opening day orders. Then all applications are thoroughly shuffled at the close of June 20 business, DRA^\'N BY LOT AND ASSIGNED A SEQUENCE NUM­BER to establish the order of seat as­signment for the first day's sale. Thus, since three or four thousand orders for each of the more popular games will arrive for processing on June 20 (cov­ering sLx or eight thousand tickets) it is obvious that a first-day order for any such game could be on the fift)' or beyond the goal line. DEPENTDING ON THE LUCK OF THE DRAW. After Monogram and Season tickets are withdrawn, THERE ARE ONLY ABOUT 4,000 TICKETS BET\\'EEN THE GOAL ANT) THE FIFTY IN THE ALUMNI SECTION (see di­agram). 
5.
 General Use applications for most games will be sent to ALL alumni the latter part of July. It is probable there will not be a General Use sale for the Michigan State game, and possible that California may also be claimed by Ad­\'ance Sale. At this %vriting (April) these appear to be the. only two that may be gone by July.lS. General Use forms are transferable and usually valid for more than two tickets. They may be used^ by the contributing alumnus to order additional tickets; and are a source of tickets for the non-contributor slightly in ad\'ance of pub­lic sale. They do not carr)' any loca­tional preference, for all such orders are filled AFTER Advance Sale pur­chases. 

6.
 Public sale opens annually on August 1. The Ticket Committee u-ill gladly send public order forms to any­one as long as tickets are available. AVe urge alumni to take advantage of this method for friends or business connec­tions. Instruct us to send them order forms directly, or ask us to send you a supply for distribution. This procedure often gets alumnus off the hook grace­fully by letting our own mailing pieces explain to the general public applicant 


why his seats must be behind the goal 
line. 
7. An Alumni Club planning on ^ bloc of tickets must file a request wit " the Ticket Manager BY JUNE 20. Accommodation of Club requests is en­tirely contingent upon the total Ad­vance sales which close July 15. No definite decisions regarding bloc re­quests can be reached until that time, but a tentative reseri'ation will be made; then, in the event of shortage, a Club will always be given preference over non-alumni gi-oups. As t ^ GROUP SEAT LOCATIONS, PLEASE,REMEMBER THIS: BLOC ORDERS ARE ASSIGNED FROM SEATS REMAINING AFTER ALL INDIVIDUAL ORDERS ARE 
(Ed. Note: If you can't get a seat oi^ the SO-j-ard line don't complain—th^ fellow who sold you the ticket can't eitlier. Ticket Manager Bob Cahill, who wrote this article, seldom sees the Fighting Irish in action although he sells thousands of ducats each Fall to alumni. On home game week ends, his job is so confining at Gate 14 that there isn't much leisure time to watch the touchdown parade.) 
BOB CAHILL 
NOTRE DAME STADIUM 
GATe-3 


treS 

FILLED. THIS MEANS END ZONE SEATS, without e.\ception. 
8. More and more Ahimni Chibs are requesting two or more seats in "choice location" for raffle or fund­raising prizes. ^Vith the preferred seat Auation so acute (see again Point 4), 
1959 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
Sept. 26—North Carolina at Notre Dame 
Oct. 3—Purdue at Lafayette Oct. 10—U. of California 
* at Berkeley 
Oct. 17—^Michigan State at East Lansing 
Oct. 24—^Northwestern at Notre Dame 

Oct. 31—^Navy at Notre Dame Nov. 7—Georgia Tech at Notre Dame Nov. 14—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh ^ Nov. 21—Iowa at Iowa City Nov. 28—So. California at Notre Dame 
CATE-14 

the Ticket Committee could furnish "choice" locations only by poaching on the already inadequate Alumni sec­tions. We think this unjust, and unless a Club member surrenders his Advance Sale privilege for the game in question, tickets for prizes must be of the gen­eral public variety. 
Some Interesting Statistics 

Notre Dame Stadium Capacit}' 59,075 
Total Scats on 50-yard line (including box) 999 
At the NCAA convention last Janu­ary' our College Athletic Business Man­agers Association was treated to a vet)' interesting (but frightening) talk about the use of Digital Computers in the athletic ticket business. Automation will one day be with us but I sure hope I'm still around the first time the President of the Notre Dame Club of East Euphoria addresses his first irate letter to an IBM 704! That'll be the day ... , 
(iATB-IO. 


ATE-1 I 

Un-IZ 'aife-ld 

YOU CAN HELP NOTRE DAME 
BY Sending a personal contribution Submitting names of friends inter­
ested in the University 
.•\dvising N.D. Foundation Office if your company has a *plan of giving* Informing University of your cor­
poration's 'areas of interest' 
Remembering the University in your Will or Bequest Contributing gifts other than money 
(i.e. paintings, equipment, books, etc.) 
Naming the University as a benefici­ary in yoiu: insurance policy 
Listing names and addresses of Foun­dations in your community 
UNrvERsiTY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Notrt Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 
SYMPOSIUM ON DESEGREGATION "The Problem and Responsibilities of School Desegregation" ^vas the subject of a symposium at the Notre Dame Law School on May 8 and 9. In opening the SjTn­posium. Dean O'Mcara said "We have no intention of debating the merits or de­merits of the Supreme Court's decisions, which we support. Nor are we interested in platitudes or generalities. Our purpose is to concentrate on the practical problems arising from the Court's decisions and on the responsibilities, in relation to these prob­lems, of the churches, of educators and school administrators, of public officials, of the Negro community and of the legal pro­fession. 
"There are two -ivays of approaching a problem: one is to treat it as an insuperable road block, the other as a challenge. Our Symposium has been planned on the as­sumption that the latter is the approach that should be made. It has been planned on the assumption that, if we stop calling names long enough to take a hard look at the practical problems involved in de­segregation, and to assess our responsibilities in respect thereto, we will find a \'iable way out of the present calamitous situation and thus be able to face the challenge of a thermonuclear world as a united and a free people." 
Participants in the Symposium, each of whom addressed himself to the problems and responsibilities of the group he rep­resented, were: representing the churches. 
Bishop Vincent S. Waters of Raleigh, North Carolina, Rev. J. J. Murray, ^siting pro­fessor at the Presbyterian Theological Semi­nar>\ Louisville, Kentucky, and former moderator of the Virginia Synod of the Presbyterian Church, and Reverend .•Mbert 
T. Mollegen of the faculty of the Protestant Episcopal Theological Seminary, Alexandria, Virginia; representing public officials. Sen­ator John Sherman Cooper of Kentucky, former Governor Theodore R. McKcldin of Mar>'land, and Mayor William B. Harts-field of .•\tlanta: representing educators and school administrators. Professor Harvey AVhceler of Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Dr. Carl F. Hansen, Superintendent of Schools of the District of Columbia, and Dr. Omer Carmiehacl, Superintendent of Schools of Louisville, Kentucky; representing the Negro Com­munity, Dr. Rufus Clement, President of .Atlanta University, .•\tlanta, Georgia, and former Dean George M. Johnson of Howard University School of Law, Washington, 
D. C : representing the legal profession, Mr. Howard C. Westwood of the firm of Covington & Burling,' Washington, D. C. 
A PLEASANT ECHO 
Last year's S^-mposium on the Role of the Supreme Court in the American Consti­tutional System is still attracting favorable attention. The paper contributed to the S>Tnposium by Mr. Carl McGowan, a mem­ber of the Chicago law firm of Ross, Mc­Go\van and O'Keefe, and General Counsel of the Chicago and North Western Railroad, was reprinted in condensed form last fall in the Washington Star. Reprints of that condensation have now been sent by the 
U. S. Information Sen'ice to all of its of­fices in foreign countries for distribution and further republication (in English and in translation) throughout the world. 
LAW HONOR BANQUET 
The President of the .American Bar .As­sociation, Mr. Ross L. Malone of Roswell, New Mexico, was the featured speaker at the Law Honor Banquet on Wednesday evening. May 6. This annual affair affords an opportunity to salute the members of the graduating class and, at the same time, to recognize the achievements of all mem­bers of the student body who have dis­tinguished themselves in one way or an­other. This year, in addition, it was the occasion for a joint obscrv'ance of L.AW DAY U.S..A. by the Notre Dame Law-School and the St. Joseph County Bar .As­sociation. 
Mr. Malone's predecessor as president of the American Bar Association, Mr. Charles 
S. Rhyne of Washington, D. C, addressed last year's Law Honor Banquet; and his successor, who will be formally installed as president of the AB.A at the annual meet­ing in Miami in August, Mr. John D. Ran­dall of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, %vill be the featured speaker in 1960. 
MOOT COURT 
The judges who will hear the final argu­ments in the Annual Moot Court Compe­tition ne-xt October are: 
Honorable Harold H. Burton, Supreme 
Court of the United States 
Honorable Alfred P. Murrah, United States Court of .Appeals for the Tenth Circuit ^ 
Honorable Paul C. Weick, United Stat " District Court for the Northern Dis­trict of Ohio 
This carries forward the tradition of hav­ing on the court for the final arguments a member of the Supreme Court of the United States. Last fall the Supreme Court was represented by Justice Sherman Minton. The following students will participate 
in the final arguments: Mr. William B. F. Custer, Fredonia, N. Y. Mr; Don R. Gardner, Cincinnati, Ohio ^ Mn Paul H. Titus, Bradford, Pa. ~ Mr. Lawrence D. Wichmann, Erlanger. 
Kv. 
They were selected by the following judges, sitting in the semi-final round of the Com­petition held on May 1: 
Honorable Bernard M. Decker of the Cir­cuit Court of Illinois Honorable James O. Monroe, Jr., of the Circuit Court of Illinois 
Honorable .Arthur J. Murphy of the .Ap­pellate Court of Illinois ^ Honorable Jack Murray of the Indiamr 
Circuit Court. 
STUDENTS APPOINTED 
Notre Dame is on the list of law schools visited annually by a representative of the .Attorney General of the United States in connnection with the Attorney General's Recruitment Program for Honor Law Grad­uates. An offer of emplo>Tncnt, under this program, was received by Mr. Patrick F. McCartan of Youngstown, Ohio, Editor-in-Chief of the Notre Dame Lawj-cr. He, ho ^ e%-er, had already accepted appointment " law clerk for Justice Charles E. AVhittaker of the Supreme Court of the United States. Mr. Robert P. Gorman '57 L, one of Mr. McCartan's predecessors as editor-in-chief of the Lawyer, spent the year following his graduation as law clerk for Justice Tom C. Clark. 
(Conttntii'd on page 10) 
AN IMPORTANT POINT 
A generous contribution to the Law ^ Scholarship Fund has been received " from the Farmers Insurance Group of Los Angeles. In his letter of trans­mittal Mr. T. E. Lcavey, President of the Farmers Insurance Group, made an important point. "One of the significant American traditions," he said, "is educational opportunities for young people with outstanding talent but with limited finances. Another is the position of the independent uni­versities, which among our institutions of higher learning arc uniquely American in their freedom from gov­cnmient support and control." 
To all who have contributed to the Law Scholarship Fund warm thanks are extended by the National Chair­man of the Notre Dame Law Associ­ation's Scholarship Program, Mr. Oscar John Dorwin, Senior Vice President and General Counsel of The Texas Company. 
Those who have not yet contributed A are urged to do so promptly. 

FOR ADDITIONAL NEWS OF NOTRE DAME LAWYERS SEE THE CLASS PAGES IN THIS ISSUE. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 

Eve of Reunions Conies Too Soon 
Commencement and the 1959 Class Reunions may seem late by the calen­dar this year, but they came so soon after the last obser\'ations of Univer­sal Notre Dame Night that there was no time to publish adequate advance information. 
^ As this issue of the ALUXINUS goes *K) press a thousand alumni are con­verging on the campus for the re­union week end and another thousand are departing with degrees after com­mencement e-xercises that featured, among other things, the appearance of two European Cardinals of inter­national stature. The Alumni Asso­ciation Board of Directors are meet­ing on matters of great concern to the XJniversity and her graduates. These events will be covered in detail in the ne.\t issue, but for now, on the eve of reunions, we must be content with a brief summaiy of the week-end festi­
vities. They include: 
Thursday, June 11. Monogram Day. Headquarters: Alumni Hall. Golf all day. On Thursday evening, cocktails, pinner and the annual business meeting 
TO the Monogram Club. 
Friday, June 12. Opening of the Alumni Golf Tournament. General registration in the Law Building. Class registration in the halls. Classes of 1909 (Golden Jubilee). 1914, 1919 and 1924. Dillon Hall. Class of 1929. 
Howard Hall. Silver Jubilee Class of 1934, Lyons Hall. Classes of 1939 and 1944, Morrissey Hall. Classes of 1949 and 1954, Alumni Hall. On Friday night, the Class dinners: Classes of 1909, 1914 and 1919, Golfer's Lounge, Morris Inn; Class of 1924, Mahogany Room, Morris Inn. Class of 1929, pri­vate dining rooms, Morris Inn; Class of 1934, Silver Jubilee Dinner in the Faculty Dining Room, South Dining Hall: Classes of 1939 and 1944, buf­fets on the Morrissey Lawn; Classes of 1949 and 1954, buffets in the Alumni-Dillon Courtyard. 
Saturday, June 13. Class Memorial Masses in each hall chapel. Golf Tour­nament continues all day. President's Luncheon for the Class of 1934 in the North Dining Hall. College luncheons of some classes in the Moiris Inn. Box lunches for all other classes at the halls. Class pictures. Campus tours at 3:30 p.m., the College Hours: open house in the Colleges of Arts & Letters, Com­merce, Engineering, Science and Law, with special meetings called by the deans at 4 p.m. After 4:30, cocktail parties, etc. At 6 p.m., the Annual Alumni Banquet, featuring reports to the alumni by Father Hesburgh, presi­dent of the University, and William 
E. Cotter, Jr., president of the Alumni Association: Athletic Director Ed Krause introducing the coaches, in­cluding Joe Kuharich and his football staff; and a special ovation for the three golden jubilarians honored in thb issue. Fathers Burke, Hagerty and Irving. 
Sunday, June 14. Annual Alumni Mass, 9:00 a.m.. Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes. Campus tours, etc., and departure. 
YOUNGSTOWN—Rev. Thomas J. O'Don­nell, C.S.C., guest speaker, checks the list of alumni attending the Youngstown Club 33th anniversary dinner and U.N.D. Night observance. With him arc (seated, from left) Thomas Kerrigan, Club president; Charles B. Cushwa, Fotmdation chairman; (standing) Joseph G. Vaschak, banquet ticket chairman; William Bord, secretary-treasurer, and Charles McCrudden, ar­rangements chairman. 
Special Grotto Indulgenees Contiiiued 
Catholics who visit the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes at Notre Dame will continue to receive the special indulgences granted by the Church during the Lourdes Centennial Year. 
According to Rev. Philip Schaerf, C.S.C., a plenary" indulgence (total remission of the temporal punishment due to sin) may be. ob­tained by members of any group (four or five) visiting the campus shrine. Those who xdsit the Grotto as individuals will receive a partial indulgence. Father Schaerf is director of the Confraternity of the Im­maculate Conception of Our Lady of Lourdes, whose headquarters are on campus. 
The special indulgences were extended for a period of seven years by the Tribunal of the Sacred Penitentiary at the Vatican. They are renewable for successive seven-year periods. 
The Confraternity of Our Lady of Lourdes was established at Notre Dame in 1874, 16 years after the appearance of Our Lady to St. Bemadette. The Grotto, a replica of the shrine at Lourdes, France, was erected in 1896 and has been the center of devotion to Our Lady of 
GROTTO OF OUR LADY OF LOURDES Lourdes and distribution of Lourdes water ever since. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 
GOLDEN JUBILARIANS 

local A.O.H., one of seven children. He was graduated from Notre Dame in 1906 and received his doctorate in phi­losophy at Catliolic University in 1911. The next ten years he taught philoso­phy at Notre Dame. He taught at Pordand and at St. Edward's, but his teaching has largely been at Notre Dame, and in the field of his great love, Thomistic philosophy. The priestly qualities of Father Hagerty practically shine through, and radiate a youthful­ness out of keeping with the conno­tations of a Golden Jubilee. Possibly part of this radiance stems from his long love of outdoor life, his frequent canoe trips and long hikes. Fadier Ha­
(Continued from page 3) gerty's most memorable characteristic is a forthrightness of opinion and an un­willingness to compromise with truth. For several years he has been chaplain of the Brothers of Holy Cross in Du­jarie Hall. The tribute which the Hibernians paid him on their annual banquet night this year was only one of hundreds that groups and individuals would gladly add for his deep and spiritual dedication. 'When you wonder sometimes die miracle of Notre Dame, recall that many of its advances have come from the miracle of tile concentration and devotion of men like tiiese over the years. 
ENGINEERS STAGE 'PROJECT TOMORROW 
Tlie students of the engineering col­lege held their annual Engineering Open House April 24-26. This year's Open House, entitled "Project Tomor­row," was chairmaned by Bob O'Shea, a senior metallurg)' major from Chi­cago, Illinois. 
The inaugurating event ^\'as the Engineering Show which featured Mr. David Rossin of Argonne National Laboraiorj' speaking on "The Eco­nomic Aspect of Atomic Power." 
The principal exhibit of tiie Auto Show, held in the Naxy Drill Hall, was Ford's Levacar. Tlib amazing experi­mental automobile rides on jets of com­pressed air instead of tires. A four-foot "Levascooter," operating on the same principle as tile Levacar, gave demon­stration rides to the spectators. 
On Saturday afternoon, the Chariot Race was held on Cartier Field after the contesting chariots were scrutinized by Fr. Lawrence Broestl to determine the soundness of their construction and design. The aeronautical engineers won the race, breaking a three-year string of victories by the architects. 
^Vith the cooperation of the South Bend Civil Air Patrol, the well-attended Air Show highlighted a "spot landing" contest and a variet)' of aerial acro­batics. 
The departmental displays were many and varied again this year and, for the most part, were quite instructive as well as intriguing. Featured by the aeronautical engineers was a student-built, operating wind tunnel. The ciNdl engineering display was centered around a scale model of the Mackinac Straits Bridge. A pyrotechnic display given by the metallurgists was their thermite welding demonstration. Poly-
Senator John Sherman Cooper of Kentucky  (second from right) and former Governor 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 

Theodore R. McKeldin of Alaryland (extreme right) were among twelve speakers at a Notre Dame Law School symposium on school desegregation May 8-9. Also partidpating in the sessions were (left to right) Father Hesburgh, a member of the Civil Rights Com­mission, and Dean Joseph O'Meara, symposiimi chairman. 
 urethane foam production, stop-watch 
reactions and a rocket fuel e.xhibit we-^ 
the core of the chemical engineering 
department's open house. 
The well-deser\'cd prize for the best 

department displays were presented to 
the electrical engineers. A few of the 
myriad of interesting displays they of­
fered were: gyroscope control systems, 
sonar, closed circuit T\^, digital com­
puters, solar batteries and stereophonic 
sound. The exhibit meriting the bf^ 
individual display award, was an ar­
chitectural exhibit outlining the steps 
taken from the initial sketches to the 
final drawings of an office building. 
The Open House was considered 

quite successfid by eveiyone concerned 
after it was learned that over 6,00C 
persons viewed the displays during the 
three-day period. 
BOOK REVIEIV 

THE CONFEDER.-\TE IiNTV^ASION OF NEW MEXICO .AND .ARIZONA, 1861­1862. By Robert Lee Kerby, '55. Lo< .•\ngelcs: Westcrnlorc Press, 1958. 159 pp. $7.50. 
The popular image of the American Civil War has been one of battles fought in Virginia and neighboring states with but^ few skirmishes west of the Mississip^ Robert Kerby's well documented mono­graph, based largely on primar)- sources, is a genuine contribution to Ci\'il War his­toriography: it sets forth in detail a little known but important phase of the war west of the Afississippi and one which has been relatively neglected by Civil War historians. Actually the campaign for the control of the southwest was, in the author's words "bound more closely to the whole tragic problem of slavery's expansion;" the New Me-xican was "not a mere sideshow of the rebellion^ 
The Confederacy in some ways had the initial advantage in the area. There was a considerably large nucleus of Southern support among the residents of the area and in the early phases of the war there was significant desertion of soldiers and officers to the Southern cause. Among the deserters was Col. H. H. Sibley, who went to Rich­mond to present to President Davis the arguments in favor of full scale invasion of New Me-xico and who eventually led tj£ main contingent of Confederate forces in the area. 
The arguments which Sibley set forth in favor of his plan were impressive: the southwest contained many an.xious to join the Confederacy and would thus prove a good recruiting ground for the South; its possession would provide more room for the' expansion of slaver>-; the vast mineral wealth of the area would help remedy the dangerous inflation under which the South was laboring; the greater accessibility oi California would bring nearer to realizatioR the Confederate hopes for a Pacific coast­line. 
The author's portrayals of the leaders of 

both sides and his account of the campaign Afsclf are sufficiently detailed and vcr>' read­able. The Southern forces made consider­able gains at first and at one point Sibley's troops succeeded in raising the Confederate flag in .Albuquerque. However, by July of 1862 the Union Col. J. Slough had secured New Mexico from the enemy forces with the result that Confederate authority along the Rio Grande gradually evaporated. In his analysis of the Southern failure the author admits that Sibley's forces were inadequate for the undertaking. Manv of the settlers in 
Alumni 
APPOINTMENTS 

.-\lumni appointed to advisory' councils of the University include William C. Schmitt, '10, board chairman of Schmitt Steel, inc., Portland, Ore., just named president of the Monogram Club, to the 
^Ldvisory Council for Science and Engineer­ing; Paul J. Cushing, '31, president of Hy­draulic Dredging Co., Ltd., Oakland, Calif., a Knight of Malta and a director of the .•\lumni Association, also to the Science and Engineering Council; and Henry Bamhart, '23, vice president of the Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton Corporation, Lima, Ohio, to Notre Dame's Advisory' Council for Liberal and Fine .*\rts. 
LIGHT IN DARKNESS 

9 Stephen J. Rogers, Jr., '56, is an inspira­tion at HarN'ard University, where he has been teaching English composition while studying for a Ph.D. in comparative litera­ture. Stephen has been blind since he was two years old, but it didn't keep him from participating in wrestling and swimming at Notre Dame, which he chose for its Spartan atmosphere and high intellectual standards. He accomplishes his gigantic tasks at Har­vard with no other help than a reader and a long cane named "Matilda." In the 
^purse of his studies Stephen has read braille in five languages. 
DETERMINED TEACHER 

Another miracle in the Boston area is the recovery of William G. O'Harc, Jr., '40, from a polio attack that threatened to cripple him hopelessly for life. Bill was stricken in 1955 while he was dean of the College of Commerce at S t Edward's Uni­versity (C.S.C.), Austin, Tex., and spent 
A ye^r 'n an iron lung before fighting Ijack 
TO work as a teacher, first at St. Ed's and now teaching government at the Univer­sity of Massachusetts besides serving as as­sistant director of its bureau of government research. Nursed back to activity by his mfe Edna, he gets about on crutches, fishes with his sons Greg and William III. A China-Burma-India veteran. Bill \vas a magna cum laude at N.D. and taught at Boston U. 
PROFESSORSHIPS GROW 

9 The list of alumni-sponsored professor­ships and "living chairs" lengthens with the announcement that Edward P. "Slip" Madigan, '20, and his son Edvvard E., '54, 
the southwest were suspicious of the South­
ern cause and many athers were alienated 
by the wholesale plundering indulged in 
by the Confederate forces. Moreover, be­
sides a pronencss to drink which imparied 
his capacity for leadership. Col. Sibley had 
serious inadequacies as a militar}* tactician. 
Robert Kerby is at present an Air Force 

lieutenant and this work originally appeared 
as a master's essay written at Notre Dame 
in 1956. The book is illustrated by the 
author and has a ver\- attractive format. 
—Thomas Moriarty, M..\. '58 

are establishing a professorship in .*\rts and Letters in honor of Rev. Eugene P. Burke's golden jubilee in the priesthood. Alumni with full professorships now in process in­clude: Charles Cushvva, '31; Neil Hurley, '32 (Commerce); John A. McGuirc, '39 (Engineering): Francis J., '22. William J., '28, and Hugh M. O'Neill, '17; and C. M. Verbiest, '20 (Commerce). 
L/WELLE FUND CONTINUES 

The ^Vest Point Society of New York, the Yale Club, the New York Giants, etc., have continued to support the fund for the widow and children of the late great Jack Lavelle, spurred by \varm tributes from Red Smith, .Arthur Daley and other leading sport scribes. The fund has been coordinated by the N.D. Club of New York. 
PAPAL KNIGHTHOODS 

In the past few months a number of Notre Dame men have been invested as knights in the military orders of. the Church by representatives of Pope John 
XXIII. Among these are M.E. Walter, '14, of Houston, Tex., editor of The Houston Chronicle, invested in the Order of Malta by Francis Cardinal Spellman on Jan. 19 in New York's St Patrick's Cathedral; Richard C. Muckerman, '20, of St. Louis, businessman and former owner of the SL Louis Browns, also made a Knight of Malta, who died shortly thereafter; and Harry J. Kirk, '13, of Washington, D. C, presented with the insignia of knighthood in the Order of St. Gregory the Great by .Arch­bishop O'Boyle March 8 in Washington's St Matthew's Cathedral. 
PERSEVERANCE PAYS 

James W. Cullen, '28, of Sayre, Pa., is now Common Pleas Judge of Bradford County, Pa., but his victorj- over Repub­lican Andrew S. Moscrip cost 436 days of recounts, recriminations and appeals' in what may be the longest hassle and the greatest farce in the history of the -Amer­ican electoral system. The 436-day ordeal began on Nov. 5, 1957, election day, with an apparent 80-vote lead for Moscrip, but 70 votes appeared to be missing. This led 
CHUCK ROHR DIES 
Alumni Association Director Charles 
E. Rohr, '30, died April 3 in Cleve­land, Ohio. His widow and four children sur\'ive. 

Rev. Cornelius J. Hagerty (left), celebrat­ing his golden jubilee in the priesthood (with Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., and Rev. Thomas P. Irving, CAC , received a gold watch at the annual banquet of the Ancient Order of Hibernians in South Bend on St. Patrick's Day. Making the presentation was Clarence E. Manion, dean emeritus of the Law School. 
to a series of recounts in which all tallies were changed, several ballots were voided and the Moscrip lead steadily dwindled. Finally a three-judge panel declared Cullen the loser by one vote, but the decision was overruled by the Pennsylvania Supreme Court, which judged the contest a tie and ordered the candidates to cut a law book to determine the winner. The decision was protested by Jim Cullen, who charged the court had" "substituted a dice bo.x for the scales of justice." But it was the law, and on Jan. 16, 1959, Cullen won the cut, became judge and ended the 15-month rhubarb. 
ROMAN HOLIDAYS 

Mentioned but not remarked in the last issue's report on the elevation of Cardinal O'Hara were several well-known alumni who have appeared in Rome in recent months. Ray Durst, '26, of Chicago, a vice president of the NJ). -Alumni -Association, was one of a handful of Americans to wit­ness the funeral rites of the late Pope Pius XII, and he prepared a detailed re­port on the solemnities for distribution to his friends. Lawrence -A. "Moon" MuUins, '31, athletic director of Marquette Univer­sity in Milwaukee, Wis., after a disastrous football season and before a brilliant N.C.A.-A. basketball stand, had an exciting stay in the Eternal City, witnessing the or­dination of his son Lawrence -A. Jr., '55, and the subsequent marriage of his daugh­ter Mary Ellen with her brother officiating, then returned to Mihvaukce for the mar­riage of another son, Michael, '56, on Jan. 
10. John H. Neeson, Jr., '35, of Phila­delphia, former Alumni .Association presi­dent, had a thrill during an audience with Pope John XXIII when the Pontiff singled out his two sons, Peter and Richard, be­stowing an apostolic benediction on the pilgrims "and above all the children of -America as represented by these two who are with us." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 
LAW SCHOOL 
(Continued from page 6) 
Other members of the Editorial Staff of the Lawyer who have received law clerk­ships are Mr. Robert E. Curley, Jr., of Eranstori, Illinois, who will be law derk for Judge John C. Lewe of the Appdlate Court of Illinois; Mr. William J. Harte of Chicago, Illinois, who will be law derk for Judge Roger J. Kilcy of the Appellate Court of Illinois; Mr. John E. Kennedy of Minneapolis, Minnesota, who will be law clerk for United States District Judge How­ard E. Dexntt of Minneapolis; and Mr. Richard D. Schiller of -Aurora, Illinois, who will serve as law clerk for Judge Luther 
M. Swygert of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana. 
The Director of the Moot Court, Mr. James .A. Durkin of Rockford, Illinois, has also received a law clerkship. He will serve in that capacity for Judge W. Lynn Parkin­son of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit 
NATURAL LAW FORUM 
The fourth issue of the Natural Law Fonmi came off the press late in .^pril. The Fonun is published, under the auspices of the Natural Law Institute, by an edi­torial board composed of the following dis­tinguished scholars: 
Editor-in-Chief Professor A. H. Chroust, Notre Dame Law School Associate Editors Professor Vernon J. Bourkc, St. Louis 
University Mr. George W. Constable, Baltimore, Md. Professor W. J. Curran, Boston Univer­
sity School of Law Professor A. P. d'Entreves, Turin Uni­versit>% Italy Professor C. J. Friedrich, Harvard Uni­versity Professor Lon L. Fuller, Law School of Harvard University Professor Wilber G. Katz, The University of Chicago Law School' Dean Edward H. Le^, The University of Chicago Law School Professor Antonio de Luna, University of Madrid, Spain Professor Myres S. McDougal, Yale Uni­versity Law School Professor F. S. C. Northrop, Yale Uni­versity Law School Professor H. A. Rommen, Georgetown 
University Professor John Wild, Harvard University Professor Joseph P. Witherspoon, Uni­
versity of Texas School of Law Professor Erik Wolf, University of Frei­burg, Germany. 
ASSOCIATION MEETINGS 

Since the last issue of the ALUMNUS the Notre Dame Law Association has spon­sored successful luncheon meetings at Pitts­burgh, on March 12, in connection with the Upper Ohio Valley Regional Meeting of the -American Bar Association, and at Peoria, on April 30, in connection with the annual meeting of the Illinois State Bar Association. Dean O'Meara spoke at the Pittsburgh meeting, at which Judge Hugh 
C. Boyle, '24 presided. The Chairman of the Peoria meeting was Mr. William B. Wombacher, '51 L. 
10 Noire Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 
CONGRATULATIONS 

Notre Dame la\vyers recently appointed to the bench include the Honorable John F. Kilkenny and the Honorable John C. Mow­bray. Judge Kilkenny has been appointed to the United States District Court for Oregon. He received his LL.B. from the Notre Dame Law School in 1925 and is a former president of the Oregon State Bar -Association. Judge Mowbray has been ap­pointed to the Eighth Judicial District Court at Las Vegas, Ne\"ada. He received his LL.B. from Notre Dame Law School in 1949. 
PRIZE WINNERS 

The Law>*crs Title Award, proWded an­nually by The La%vyers Title Insurance Corporation of Richmond, Virginia, to the student selected by the faculty for excel­lence in the law of real property, was pre­sented this year to Mr. Robert P. Mone of Columbus, Ohio. Mr. Mone also received the Hoynes .Award, founded in 1916 by for­mer Dean Hoynes. 
The Farabaugh Prize, given annually by 

Honorable Gallitzcn A. Farabaugh, L '07, 
was awarded to Mr. Patrick F. McCartan 
of Youngstown, Ohio. 
The Harry English Award, establbhed 

under the will of the late Harry English of 
Decatur, Illinois, was presented to Mr. 
Richard C. Clark of River Forest, Illinois. 
The Law Week Award, provided by the Bureau of National .Affairs, Inc., AVashing­ton, D. C, went to Mr. William J. Harte of Chicago, Illinois. 
GRAY'S INN 

Gray's Inn, a student organization found­ed in 1954, devoted a recent highly success­ful meeting to the timely subject of Urban Planning and Redevdopment Both legal and non-legal aspects of this subject were considered by a panel consisting of Profes­sor Jan Krasnowiecki, Professor T. Brooks Brademus and Mr. Henry Sucher. Professor Krasnowiecki is a member of the Faculty of the Notre Dame Law School; Professor Brademus is the head of a consulting firm on city planning and is Visiting Professor of City Planning at The University of Notre Dame; Mr. Sucher is associated with the Redevelopment Commission of South Bend. 
FACULTY NOTES 

Dean Joseph O'Meara will partidpate in a conference on legal education to be hdd at -Ann -Arbor in June under the auspices of the University of Michigan Law School. Dean O'Meara has been appointed as a consultant to the Public Affairs Program of The Ford Foundation. He will serve as a member of the Advisory Conmiittee for the Law Faculty Fellowship Program. 
Professor Wagner has received a Ful­bright Award to lecture in France at the Universities of Paris and Rennes for nine months, beginning next October. His topic ivill be comparative law with emphasis on American legal method, organization of courts, and the relationship between the Federal and State judiciaries. 
Professor Broden read a paper on "The Straw Man of Legal Positivism and Free­dom Through Law," before the May meet­ing of the Round Table, a group of South Bend business and professional leaders. 
-Assistant Dean Broderick spoke before the Terre Haute Notre Dame Club on Unjg versal Notre Dame Night ~ 
ADVISORY COUNCIL 
Mr. James T. Finlen of Butte, Montana, 

and Fort Lauderdale, Florida, has been 
appointed to the Law Advisory Council. 
Until his recent retirement, Mr. Finlen was 
Western General Counsel of the Anaconda 
Copper Company. Other members of the .Advisory' Council 
arc: Honorable Hugh C. Boyle, '24, Pitts­burgh, Pa. 9^ Mr. John E. Cassidy, '17 L, Peoria, 111. Honorable Charles S. Desmond, Buffalo, 
N. Y. Mr. Oscar John Dorwin, '17, New York, 
N. Y. Honorable Charles Fahy, Washington, 
D. C. Mr. Harold S. Foley, '21, Vancouver, 
British Columbia Mr. Paul F. Hdlmuth, '40, Boston, Mass. Mr. John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, Mich. Mr. -Aaron H. Huguenard, '22 L, Sout^ 
Bend, Ind. Mr. H. Clay Johnson, '32, '34 L, New York, N. Y. Honorable Harry F. Kelly, '17 L, De­troit, Mich. Mr. Robert F. Kennedy, Washington, 
D. C. Honorable Roger J. Kiley, '23 L, Chi­
cago, 111. Mr. Thomas F. McDonald, S t Louis, Mo. Mr. J. W. Mullin, Jr., Los -Angeles, Calif. Honorable Walter V. Schaefer, Chicago^ 
111. ^' Mr. Ross D. Siragusa, Chicago, HI. Mr. Edmund A. Stephan, '33, Chicago, 
III. Mr. Bernard J. VoU, '17, South Bend, Ind. Mr. A. Harold Weber, '22, South Bend, Ind. 
FOREIGN STUDY OPPORTUNITIES 
Two hundred fellou-shtps for graduate study in 13 foreign countries vlU be o/Tcred by foreign govenunents and universities ^ ^ through the Institute of International Edu-^/ cation for the academic year 1960.61, 
The Institute announced today that appli­cations for the fellowships wiH be accepted until November 1, 1959. 
The scholarships cover tuition and varjing amounts of maintenance in universities in Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Iran, Israel, Italy, the Netherlands, Sweden, Swit­zerland, Canada, Brazil and Mexico. Stu­dents applying for Italian university awards 
- or Austrian, Danish, French, German or Netherlands Government awards may apply for a Fulbright travel grant to supplement their scholarships. Two additional awards, ^ orrct«d by an .American foundation, are for m' any cotmtry in the Far East, South or South­east Asia and Africa. 
General eligibility requirements are United States citizenship, a Bachelor's degree or its equivalent before departure, language ability sitflicient to caTT>- on the pitiposcd study, and good health. A good academic record and demonstrated capacity for independent study ar% also necessary. Preference is given to applicants under 35. years of age who have not had extensive foreign experience, ^\1lile married peisons are eligible for most of the above described awards, the stipends are geared to the neetls of single grantees. 
For further information and application ^|^^ fomu, prospective applicants should write to the Information and Cotmseling Division, Institute of International Education, 1 East 67th Street, New York 21, N.Y. 
ALABAMA 

S. Eugene SuUiran, '25, 1707 Wellington Rd., Birmingham, Ala. 
ARIZONA Phoenix—iohn R. Dolan, '50, 3241 E. Mariposa, Phoenix, Ariz. J"u«on—Elmer Besten, '27, Box 5714, " Tucson, .Arizona. 
ARKANSAS Fort Smith — Burley Johnston, Jr., '40 Quality Flowers, 925 Garrison, Ft. Smith, Arkansas. Little Rock—James E. Madigan, '43, 4617 Crestwood, Little Rock, Ark. 
CALIFORNIA Central—Ilarold A. Bair, '29 (Secretao"), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, Cal. jio i ^nge/ei—Donley L. Brady, '49, 310 S. ' " Tyler Ave., El Monte, Calif. A^orrtern—Edward F. Mansfield, '34, 523 West Hillsdale, San Mateo, Calif. Orange County—Richard R. Murphy, '53, 12622 S.W. Ensamada, Tustin, Cal. San Diego—Richard Derenthal, '51. 6345 ­49th St., San Diego, Cal. 
COLORADO Denver—Leon Archer, '29, 7440 W. 10th Ave., Lakewood 15. Colo. Southern Colorado—^A. Jack Thomas, '49 A 3222 Rex St., Pueblo, Colo. 
CONNECTICUT Connecticut Valley—Louis A. Bergeron, '52 90 Sylvan Ave., Meriden, Conn. Fairfield County—Robert K. Griffin, '45, 33 Edna Ave., Bridgeport, Conn. iVa«ga!«cA—.Alfred E. Sullivan, '52, 301 Dorchester, W'aterbur)-, Conn. New Haven—Joseph Benoit, '50, Box 1670, New Haven 10, Conn. 
DELAWARE ^haries .A. Wolfe, Jr., 53 Ruby Drive, Ashbourne Hills, Claymont, Delaware. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA Joseph L. Fitzmaurice, '36, 2-B Woodland Way, Greenbelt, Md. 
FLORIDA Centra/—Roy B. Laughlin, '48, 2061 Rock-ledge, Rockledge, Fla. Fort Lauderdale—John L. Callan, 433 N.E. 15 th .Ave., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. greater Miami—Chai\es E. Maher, '35, 138 " N.E. 92nd St., Miami Shores, Fla. North Florida—Fred H. Baumer, '22, 4731 Blackburn Rd., Jacksonville, Fla. Palm Beach County—^Timothy D. O'Hara, '54, 1st National Bank Bldg., Palm Beach, Fla. St. Petersburg-Tampa—Al W. Johannes, '26, 10102 Tarpon Dr., Treasure Island 6. Fla. GEORGIA Atlanta—Kenneth Davis, 3641 .Ashford Dun­g^ woody Rd., N.E., .Apt. 3, Atlanta, Georgia. 
HAWAII Walter Tagawa, '52, 917-.A Hausten St., Honolulu, Hawaii. 
^'Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents 
IDAHO James J. Carberry, '41, 8507 Vincent St., Boise, Idaho. Idaho Falls—James M. Brady, '29, P.O. Box 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho 
ILLINOIS 

Aurora—Owen Kane, '38, Kane Ford, 230 Galen Blvd., Aurora, III. Central Illinois—John C. Amheim, '51,2115 Cherry Rr., Springfield, III. Chicago—Philip J. Faccenda, '52, 150 North Peck, LaGrange, 111. Deeafwr—Bernard A. Marty, '37, 201 Red­wood Lane, Decatur, 111. Eastern Illinois—Ernest F, Sedlmayr, '46, 611 Douglas Ave., Danville, 111. Fox Valley—George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St., Elgin, III. Joliet—John Lu-x, Jr., '53, c/o Herald News, 78 Scott St., Joliet, 111. Kankakee Valley—Richard L. Clancy, '52, 705 W. Broadway, Bradley, III. Peoria—William S. Clark, '47, 2819 W. Susan Curve, Peoria, 111. Rockford—Philip Carey, '40, c/o Ditto, Inc., 1014 Charles St., Rockford, 111. Rock River Valley—Joseph L. Guccione, '40, 308 First .Ave.; Sterling, III. 
Southern Cook County—^.Angelo A. Ciam­brone, '57, 168 Hawthorne Lane, Chicago Heights, 111. 
INDIANA 

Calumet District — William J. O'Connor, '51, Calvin, Galvin and Leeney, 7th Floor Calumet Bldg., Hammond, Ind. 
Eastern Indiana—William B. Cronin, '31, 521 E. Jefferson, Hartford City, Ind. £/AAar(—.Austin Gildea, '30, 5 St. Joseph Manor, Elkhart, Ind. £fanroi7/e—Donald F. Haller, '43, 716 S. Villa, Evansville 14, Ind. Fort Wayne—Paul O. Schirmeyer, '48, 904 
E. Washington Center Rd., Ft. Wayne, Ind. /nrfiana/io/u-Robert V. ^VcIch, '50, 7834 Castle Lane, Indianapolis, Ind. Michigan Ci'O'—William J. Priebe, '53, 126 Boyd Circle, Michigan City, Ind. St. Joseph Valley—Rudy Goepfrich, '26, 1109 N. Cleveland, South Bend 28, Ind. Terre Haute—Druie Cavender, '46, 271 Monterey, Harrisburg, 111. Wabash Valley—James W. Glaser, '50, P.O. Box 59, Lafayette, Ind. IOWA Burlington—Roland J. Martel, '43, 2505 Surrey Rd., Burlington, Io%va. Cedar Rapids—Joseph C. Creen, '51, 2922 Mansfield Ave., S.E., Cedar Rapids, Iowa. 
Des Moines—^Andrew T. McCormack, '50, 3908 Greenwood Dr., Des Moines 15, Iowa. 
Dubuque—^Rev. William Kunsch, '37, Loras College, Dubuque, Iowa. Sioux-Land—Raymond B. Duggan, '43, (Secretary), 3244 Jackson, Sioux City, Iowa. 
Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, 
E. Moline)—Roy A. Bush, '49, 313 E, Central Park, Davenport, Iowa. 

KANSAS Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, '49, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. Salina — Thomas Kennedy, '51, 1900 Geb­hart, Salina, Kansas. It'iVAtVa—Theodore P. Jochems. '40, 402 N. Roosevelt, Wichita 8, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY Leo J. Brown, Jr., '50, 3721 Willmar Ave., Louisville 5, Ky. . 
LOUISIANA Ark-La-Tex—GeoTse J. Despot, '45, 517 Market, Shreveport, La. New Orleans—James E. Smith, '50, 512 Crystal, New Orleans 24, La. 
MAINE Raymond A. Gciger, '32, cjo Geiger Bros., Lewiston, Me. 
MARYLAND Baltimore—Francis Herb, '37, 16 Thomhill Rd., Lutherville, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS Borfon—Richard P. Hyland, '50, 27 Mom­ingside Dr., Walpole, Mass. Pioneer Valley—^Arthur L. Demcrs, '35, 17 Gillette Ave., Springfield, Mass. 
MICHIGAN Battle Creek—Raymond R. Allen, '40, 409 Orchard Place, Battle Creek, Mich. Berrien County—Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St: Joe, NUes, Mich. B/ii« Water District—^William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. Dearborn—John J. Fish, Jr., '53, 14940 Michigan Ave., Dearborn, Mich. Detroit—O. Don Herron, '34, 3900 E. Out­er Dr., Detroit 34, Mich. ••^-'-^ Flint—Arthur T. Paradis, '49, 3401 Briar­wood Dr., Flint 7, Mich. Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn, '40, Wright & Zinn, Michaels Bldg., Ironwood, 
• Michigan. . . 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan— John D. Dceb, '51, Deeb, Dunn & Elfer­dink. Suite 600 Michigan Trust Bldg., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Hiawathaland—Robert F. Voelkcr, '39, Box 88, Stephenson, Mich. Jackson—Catl F. Bachle, Jr., '52, 1412 Larry's Drive, Jackson, Mich. , 
Kalamazoo—Victor M. Kimmel,- Jr., '44, c/o Paw Paw Canning Co., Paw Paw, Mich, 
iorifing—Clement E. McFarlane, '38, 1638 Wellington Rd., Lansing, Michigan. Monroe—Charles J. Golden, '48, 35 E. Front St., Monroe, Mich. 
Muskegon—John M. Bierbusse, '54, 4029 Stamford Dr., Muskegon Heights, Mich, Saginaw FaHey—George Ward, '40, 205 
Park, Bay City, Mich. Top of Michigan—^Edward L. Moloney, '17, 416 East State St., Cheboygan, Mich. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 II 
MINNESOTA 
Duluth-Superior—James P. Keough (treas­urer), 2705 East Fifth St., Duluth, Minn. Twin Cities—^James C. Rogers, '53, 1350 Delaware, St. Paul 7, Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI William P. Condon, '39 (vice-pres.), 601 Washington, Greenville, Miss. 
MISSOURI 
Kansas City—(Mo. and Kans.)—John -T. Massman, '56, 1261 West 56th St., Kansas City, Mo. 
St. Louis—]. Donald Ratchford, '50. 9705 Madison, Rock Hill 19, Mo. MONTANA Bernard Grainey, '43, 906 11th Avenue, Helena, Mont. 
NEBRASKA 
Omaha and Council Bluffs—Herb Sampson 
'50, 541 South 69th St., Omaha, Neb. 
NEW JERSEY Central—Dan Grace, '51, 406 Accacia Rd., Scotch Plains, N. j . New Jersey—^John F. Kelly, '40, 70 Vree­land Ave., Nutley, N. J. 
South Jersey—Robert W. Nickol, '37, 424 
Tavistock Blvd., Haddoniield, N. J. NEW MEXICO Anthony F. Potenziani, '40, 1817 Sigma Chi, N.E., .Mbuquerque, N. M. 
NEW YORK Buffalo—Hcniy Balling, Jr., '52, 166 Walter .\vc., Tonawanda, N. Y. 
Capital District—C. F. Regan, Jr., '27, 1592 New Scotland Rd., Box 158, Slingcr­lands, N. Y. 
Central—J. Garvey Jones, '52, 606 Crossett St., Syracuse, N. Y. Golden Circle—James F. McVay, '42, 49 Parkway Lane, Bradford, Pa. 
Mid-Hudson Valley—Donald J. Reynolds. '53, 118 South Ave, Poughkeepsie, N. Y. Mohawk Valley—Daniel E. Waterbur)-, '48. 
76 Hcrthum Rd., Whitesboro, N. Y. 
New York City—James C. MacDevitt, Jr., '35, 350 Fifth Ave., New York 1, N. Y. Rochester—John F. Burke, '53, 29 Ches-
well Way, Brighton, Rochester, N. Y. Schenectady—Leon S t Pierre, '55, c/o G. E. Company, P. O. Box 1088, Schenectady, 
N. Y. Syracuse—See "Central New York" Southern Tier—Edwin Bonham, '09, 329 
Hamilton St., Painted Post, N. Y. 
Triple Cities—Geoisc J. Haines, '42, 126 
Laurel Ave., Binghamton, N. Y. NORTH DAKOTA William Daner, '53, 1106 So. Highland Acres, Bismarck, North Dakota. OHIO Akron—John L. Darago, '54, 1361 Hammel St, .'^kron, Ohio. Canton — James F. Weber, '57, Editorial Dept., Canton Repository, 500 Market Ave., South, Canton, Ohio. Cincinnati—Stephen P. Heekin, '50, 9242 Sherry Lee, Cincinnati 30, Ohio.' Cleveland—Pa\i\ B. Lillis, '42, 1400 National City Bank Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio. 
12 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 
Columbus—Dr. J. Joseph Hughes, '31, 987 Grandview Ave., Columbus, Ohio. i)a;'/on—Herman A. Zitt, '48, 635 Bell­monte Park, No., Dayton, Ohio. Hamilton—Jerome A. Ryan, '41, 353 South "D" St., Hamilton, Ohio. A'or//i!uei/«rn—William J. Otte, '35, 401 West Park St., Coldwater, Ohio. Ohio Valley—James J. Haranzo, '52, 29 Oakland .-Vve., Wheeling, W. Va. 
Sandusky—Richard C. Hohler, '47, 2603 
£ast^vood Drive, Sandusky, Ohio. Tiffin—Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., Tiffin, Ohio. 
To/edo—Joseph R. Hillebrand, '43, Hille­brand Insurance Agency, Board of Trade Bldg., Toledo 4, Ohio. 
Youngstown—^Thomas E. Kerrigan, '44, 133 East Judson Ave., Youngstown, Ohio. 
OKLAHOMA Oklahoma City—Charles L. Monnot, Jr., '34, 1414 N.W. 37th, Oklahoma City, Okla. Tulsa—John H. Conway, '44, 2927 E. 26th Place, Tulsa, Okla. 
OREGON Charles Slatt, '33, 2835 N.E. 19th Ave., Portland 12, Oregon. 
PENNSYLVANIA 
Central Pennsylvania — Dr. George W. 
Katter, '41, U. S. Bank Bldg., Johns­town, Pa. £rie—John McCormick, Jr., '53, 910 Wash­ington Place, Erie, Pa, Harriffcarg—Donald R. Meek, '50, 1932 Carlisle Rd., Camp Hill, Pa. 
Lehigh Valle}'—James H. Walsh, '41, 1041 
Moravian St, Fountain Hill, Bethlehem. Pa. Monongahela Valley—Louis W. Apone, '41, 321 Market St., Brownsville, Pa. Philadelphia—John F. Moorehead, '49, 159 Vassar Road, Bala-Cynwyd, Pa. PiHiitirgA—Charles L. Christen, '52, 3716 Rebecca St., Pittsburgh 34, Pa. Scranton—Thomas J. Harrington, '34, 105 Washington Rd., Scranton, Pa. Wilkes-Barre — Raymond J. Sobota, '49, 760 Miners Bank, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Williamsport—^Frank B. Lundy, '56, 1305 Woodmont Ave., Williamsport, Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS 
James M. McMullen, '36, Providence Journal, Pro\'idence, Rhode Island 
SOUTH CAROLINA Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore Dr., Westwood, Charleston, So. Car. 
SOUTH DAKOTA Black Hills—Bernard Gu^, '10, Custer, South Dakota. 
TENNESSEE • Chattanooga—^Herbert J. Haile, Jr., '55, W. 
C. Teas Co., 1212 McCallie Ave., Chat­tanooga, Tenn. 
Memphis — Raj-mond Moran, '54, 1886 Monticello Dr., Memphis, Tenn. 
TEXAS 

DflZ/oi—Lancaster Smith, '50, 8638 Win-gate Dr., Dallas, Texas. El Paso—James J. Ryan, '53, 1300 No. Ochoa, Apt 4, El Paso, Texas. 
Houston—Lawrence J. Kelley, '42, 505 San Jacinto Bldg., Houston 2, Texas. ^ Midland-Odessa—John L. Buckley, '38­2212 Harvard, Midland, Texas. 
Rio Grande Valley—Rohert Aziz, '49, 1205 
W. Elizabeth, Bro^vnsville, Texas. 

San Antonio—John M. O'Connell, '53, 123 Colleen Dr., San .Antonio 10, Texas. 
UTAH Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Kearns Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
VIRGINIA Andrew E. O'Keeffe, '33, 814 St. Christc*J pher, Richmond 20, Va. Tidewater — Philip L. Russo, '49, 8107 Wedgewood Drive, Norfolk, Va. 
WASHINGTON 

S'/ioAane—.Ormonde R. .Mbo, '35, W. 2528 Rockwell, Spokane 13, Wash. 
Western — Theodore P. Cummmgs, '44, Dore, Cummings & Dubuar, 905 Ameri­can Bldg., Seattle 4, Wash. 
^VEST VIRGDSTA ^ 

John F. Kaemmerer, '53, 2010 AVeber^vood Dr., South Charleston 3, West Va. Centra?—John D. Julian, '40, P.O. Box 2063, Clarksburg, W. Va. 
WISCONSIN 

Fox River Valley—Patrick F. Coughlin, '50, 110 S. Oneida St., Applcton, Wis. 
Green Bay—Wallace P. Christman, '44, 2423 Beaumont St, Green Bay, Wis. LaCrosse—James Kroner, '50, 2318 Missis­
sippi St, LaCrosse, Wis. '3^ Merrill—Augustus H. Stange, 102 S. Pros­pect, Merrill, Wis. 
Milwaukee—Viaher O. Schneider, 54, 2861 
North 76th, Apt 4, Milwaukee 10, Wis. 

Northwest Wisconsin—C. T. Doivns, '33, 
21954 S. Barstow, Eau Claire, Wis. 

South Central—Thomas W. Frost, '30, 115 
Ely PI., Madison, Wis. Southeastern—John V. Whaley, '51, North Bay, Racine, Wis. 
FOREIGN CLUBS 
® 

Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C, '24 (key man), Moreau House, 28 Zin­dabahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. 
Canada—Paul H. LaFramboise, '34, 400 Charest Blvd., Quebec, Canada. 
Chile—Rev. Francis A. Provenzano, C.S.C, '42, St. George's College, Aven. Pedro de Valdivia 1423, Santiago, Chile. 
Ecuador—John Moeller, '47, P.O. Box 213, Quito, Ecuador. Guam—Capt V. T. Blaz, Marine Barrack^^ Nav>' 926, c/o F.P.O., San Francisco, Cal. AfaniVa—John F. Gotuaco, '24, 1316 Penn­sylvania, Manila, Philippines. Mexico City — Telmo DeLandero, '37, Eugenio Sue 220, Mexico City. Panama—William J. Sheridan, '34, Box 98, Balboa Heights, Canal Zone. Peru—^Enrique Lulli, '45, Cuzco 440, Lima, Peru. Puerto Rico—\^ce-Pres.: Paul McManus, 
•34, B&M Products Co., Box 2695, San Juan, Puerto Rico. ( * 

Rome—Secretary: Vincent G. McAloon, '34, c/o Notre Dame International School, Via .Aurelia 700, Rome, Italy. 
CALENDAR 

W Regularly scheduled club meetings that have been reported to the Alumni Office are as follows: 
BUFFALO—First Tuesday of every month at 8:30 p.m.. Hotel Sheraton, 715 Dela­ware Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. In addition, a table marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo" is reserved for lunch at K. of C, 506 Dela^vare Ave., Buffalo, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 

CEDAR RAPIDS—Communion Breakfast A Meeting, fourth Sunday of c%'en months: 
8:00 a.m. Mass at alternating parishes; 
9:00 breakfast meeting at Bishops. CENTRAL OHIO—First Monday (night) of every month. Junior Rose Room, Vir­ginia Hotel, Columbus, Ohio. CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—Second Wed­
nesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High St., Perth Amboy, 

N. J. DECATUR — Monthly luncheons, fourth ^ Wednesday of every month at Greider's W Cafe, North Water Street, Decatur, 111. DETROIT—First Monday of each month, luncheon, at 12 noon. Ye Oldc AVayne Club, 1033 Wayne St. (behind the Cass Theatre). ERIE—First Friday dinner meeting with wives. Antler's Restaurant, 7:00 p.m.. Sept thru June, Erie, Pa. FORT LAUDERDALE—Second Thursday of each month, dinner, at 7:30 p.m.. Gov­ernor's Club Hotel, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. ^p\NSAS CITY—Weekly luncheons, Thurs­days at Famous Restaurant, Kansas City, Mo. MIAMI—First Thursday (night) of every month at the Urmey Hotel, 34 S.E. 2nd Ave., Downtown Miami. OKLAHOMA CITY — First Monday of each month, night, check McFarland's Drive-In Theater, Oklahoma City, Okla., for details. PHILADELPHIA—Second Tuesday of each month (night) at the Philopatrian Club, Q Philadelphia, Pa. PITTSBURGH—AVeekly luncheon at the Variety Club, Tuesday, in the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, Pittsburgh, Pa., at 12 noon. ROCHESTER — Monthly luncheon, first Monday, at 12 noon. Powers Hotel, Rochester, N. Y. (If this is a holiday, meeting is held on second Monday.) ST. LOUIS—Monthly luncheon, stag, 12 ^^ noon. Key Club in Hotel Jefferson, St. V Louis, Mo., second Monday of each month. SOUTHWESTERN WISCONSIN — First Friday of every month, noon luncheon get-together at the Racine Elks Club, Racine. TERRE H.'^UTE —Third Thursday of every month, 7:30 p.m. Meeting at the Terre Haute House. WASHINGTON — Weekly luncheon, each Tuesday, 12 noon. Touchdown Club, 1414 I Street N.W., Washington, D. C. WILKES-BARRE—First Tuesday of every month, luncheon meeting, 12:15 p.m., in 
the main dining room. Hotel Sterling, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
ILUMNI 

The 36th annual Universal Notre Dame Night proved what we have known for several years, that the "Night" is one of the great public relations channels of the University, bringing the story of Notre Dame into the community by a locally spotlighted program. Because of this evolution to the local spotlight instead of the once-projected centralized program, the success has been multiplied by extending the observation at local option to dates on either side of the official "Monday after Easter Monday." 
This year of 1959 your Alumni Secretary, partly by design and partly by happy accident, covered his new high record of U.N.D. Night meetings •_— Rochester, Olean, Syracuse, Utica and Buffalo, N.Y.; Harrisburg and Erie, Penn.; Birming­ham, Ala.; Atlanta, Ga.; Jacksonville, Fla., and the Florida State Convention' at Ft. Lauderdale, representing the half-dozen Notre Dame Clubs in Florida. These Clubs will have their own equal time for reporting the individual meetings. 
I would, however, like to say, for the benefit of all Clubs and all who read, that John Nceson, Sr., Alfred C. Ryan, Jr., and the Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., who launched the first Notre Dame Night in 1924 as alumni president, alumni secretary, and University president respectively, would glory in the development of their inspiration. 
Once in a while you encounter a little nostalgia for the good old days when the boys got together to reminisce, and this is not to be discouraged — it should be recognized by Clubs either in some phase of U.N.D. Night or in a special meet­ing to cover nostalgia. But in my opinion, formed over 34 of the 36 years the Night has existed, the present growth of Notre Dame public relations owes a large part of its stature to the expansion of the Club programs to include the wives of members, the parents of present students, prominent religious, civic, industrial and educational leaders in the community. 
All of us at Notre Dame are impressed by the successful programs which have become truly universal. We are happy that this year so many campus representa­tives took part in these programs. Their contribution to Notre Dame is immeasur­able.—J.E.A. 
Akron 
Universal Noire Dainc Kiglit April 16 in Akron*s Sheraton Hotel featured the appearance of several former Xotrc Dame football stars as guests of the Akron Club to pay homage to the University's ex­cellence in the academic arena. Present were Club President BOB KAPISH and GENE IwVPISH, '52, of Barberton, O., former ends; ST*\X COFALL, captain of the 1916 Insli^ now president of the National Solvent Co., Cleveland, O.; JOE BO-LfVND, *27, South Bend radio-television sports com­mentator, formerly a tackle; DON MILLER, '25, famed quartcrl>ack of the Four Horsemen and for­mer U. S. district attorney in Cleveland, and STEVE SITKO, MO, of .Akron, a famous N. D. quarterback. 
Named Notre Dame ^fan of the Year A^-as WIL­LLVM G. BURKHARDT, '35, president of Burk­hardt Consolidated Corp., honored for his civic 5er\'ice, his efTorts for Catholic Charities, the Red Cross, the Boy Scouts nnd the Akron Club as uxll as his exemplary- personal life. JOSEPH KR^VKER was toastniaster of the affair. 
Officers elected for 1959 are: JOHN L. DAR.\GO, '54, president; JOHN B. HUMMEL, '49, vice-presi­dent; BRUCE R.\FF, JR., '49, secrelar>-, and JO­SEPH WEIBEL, '56, treasurer. 
Alabama 
The "oldest living amateur in alumni organiza­tions" — as JAMES ARMSTRONG described him­self — helped the infant Notre Dame Club of Alabama celebrate its first Universal Notre Dame Night in Birmingham, April 21. 
Armstrong told the Alabama group that more and more Notre Dame graduates are moving to the Southeast and more and more boys from the area are going to Notre Dame for their education. 
He said it would be. a good idea for the ^Vlabama Club to organize small chapters in areas of the state where a number of alumni live. These would supplement the main chapter which has been func­tioning in Birmingham. 
The Purdue Club of Alabama invited Notre Dame and Indiana Club members and their families to come along on an outing May 9. One of the Fur-due men, a paper mill executive, has arranged for the group to use the company's yaclit for an all-day cruise on the Warrior River. 
The Alabama Notre Damers are also working on plans to come as a group to the Georgia Tech game next Nov. 7. 
Next meeting of the club will be in August. 
—ED DAILEY, Secy. 

Atlanta 
On .-Vpril 22 the Notre Dame Club of .Atlanta held the fifth annual Universal Notre Dame Night with Alumni Secretary JIM ARMSTRONG as guest speaker. Among load dignitaries attending were Mayor William B. Hartsfield of Atlanta and Judge James C. Davis of the U. S. House of Representa­tives. AL ABRAMS, Georgia's leading supporter of Notre Dame, u-as selected as the recipient of this year's Man-of-thc-Ycar award, and Club President DICK DONNELLY was honored with a certificate of appreciation for his unceasing efforts in behalf of Notre Dame and the Club. Dick is being trans­ferred to Dallas, and new officers will be announced in the next issue. Coach HARRY MEHRE" was toastmaster, and REV^ VINCENT P. BRENNAN, 
S. M., gave the invocation as Club chaplain. Other officers of the past year were JAMES E. BAR­NARD, vice-president and secretary, and MEL-
Ndtre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 13 
VILLE S. RUMMEL, treasurer. KENNETH G. DAVIS, JR., was chairman of llic program. 
Boston 
The Notre Donie Club of Bo.slon celebrated Uni­versal Notre Dame Nigbt April 13 with an at­tendance of approxtnialely 120. Among the guests were Bishop Minnihan, several distinguished priests and nionsignori and DE^VN JAMES W. CULLITON of the Notre Dame College of Commerce, who spoke on the theme "Timiorrow's Student." BILL DACEY was iiisialled to succeed DICK HYLAND as Boston Club prestdenl. 
Buffalo 
The following Noire Dame men made a week-end silent Retreat ai the St. Columban Retreat House, Deriiv. N.Y.: MAURICE QUINN, '35, (citairman); President JOHN I-aVIGNE, M9; ncwiy-electcd Pres­ident for 1959-60 HENRY BALLING, JR., -52; FR.VNK GAGLIONE, '39; R;\Y RUSEK, '38: DON JACOBI, '35: JOE RYAN, '38; JOHN E.NDERS, JR., '53: JEROME TERHAAR, '50; ILALPH ELSE, '34; BER.VARD BIRD, '28; RICHARD WAGNER, '53; PAUL CARROLL, SR.; ANTHO-NY BRICK, JR., '30: JOHN EGAN, '-17; HARRY QUINN, '49: EDWARD T. FI-.\NIG.VN, '38; JOSEPH MAR­CI.N, '43. and JOH.V .MADDEN, '50. 
Under the chairmanship of JOHN DOERR, '43, and MAURY QUINN, '35, the BulTalo Club was host to the Notre Dame Basketball team while they were in town to plav Canisius College. At a prc­game luncheon WILUA.M L.\WLESS, •14. repre­senting Mavor Sedita. presented the key to the City of Itulfalo to Coach JOHN JORDAN. Tins was a Father-and-Son Luncheon and all the sons that at­tenditl weie presented with autographed pictures of the tram. After the game many cluh members and their friends attended a post-game Buffet at the Hotel Lenox. 
At €)ur latest club meeting Chainnan TONY BRICK, '30. of the Notre Dame Foundation i e-ported that 47.2% of the current membership are currently contributing to the Foundation. Thb is a direct result of Tony's consistent work on the foundation ptograni. Now Tony has all his legal asMwiales talking up that $1,000.00 per year deduc­tion for the Law School scholarship program. If it can be done Tony will be the man to do U. 
Buffalo was host to Jim Armstrong as guest speaker for Universal Notre Dame night in Buf­falo. Chairman HARRY QUINN, '49, Chairman DO.VALD SEIFERT, '49, and committee established April 13. 1959, as Universal Notre Dame Night in BufTalo in order to agree with JI.M ARMSTRONG'S itinerary. 
On the program Jim .Armstrong assisted in the installation of the fallowing newly elected directors: HARRY QUINN, '49; THO.MAS KELLY, '49; EU­GENE COYLE, '31, and ARTHUR STATUTO, '48. Newly-elected officers of the Notre Dame Club of BufTalo for 1959-60 also seated on this night were: President HENRY BALLING, JR.; '52; Vice-President JOHN F. ENDERS, JR., '53; Treasurer THOMAS KELLY, '49; Financial Secretary- JOHN BOLAND, '48, and Secretars- DON JACOBI, '35. There was an unusually large turnout of Notre Dame men and their friends in attendance at the Hotel Lafayette for this night, the opening of the spring and summer season of the Notre Dame Club of Buffalo, N.Y. 
At a meeting of the directors preliminary plans were made fur the Notre Dame Night at Buffalo Raceway, the summer Slag outing, and the Golf Tournament for the Marv-A. Quinn Trophy, . . JACK BOL.\ND and Ins committee for the Notre Dame handicap at Buffalo Raceway have estab­lished, with the cooperation of James J. Dunnigan, President of Buffalo Trotting association, Tuesday, July 7, 1959, as the night for the Notre Dame Pace. .-VII Notre Dame men and their friends are invited to the clubhouse preceding the race, for the dinner party. 
Both Notre Dame football trophies were presented at Universal Notre Dame night dinner. JOSEPH RYAN, '38, presented the Western New York Junior Notre Dame Football Trophy. St. Joseph's Colle­giate Institute retired the king-size Notre Dame High Scliuol Football Trophy by winning their third leg of the current series. 
Calumet Region 
The Calumet Club's annual observance of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night u-as held on Monday, April 13, at Phil Smidt's Restaurant. Rcprc­
14 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June, 1959 

CHICAGO—Gathered at tjala Universal Notre Danic Night ceremonies in Chicago's Sheraton Hotel are Ray Durst, general chairman; Deputy Under Secretary of State Robert 
D. Murphy, principal speaker; Father Hesburgh, President of the University, and George Connor, toastmastcr. 
scnting the University w-as Rev. CHARLES Mc-a-\RR^\GHER, C.S.C-, special assisUnt to Notre Dame's vice-president for student affairs, who spoke on "The S-piritual Side of the Students' Edu­cation." An additional feature was the appearance of His Exccllenc>- ANDREW G. GRUTK^\, Bishop uf the Garv- DiiKese. who, though strictly an alum­nus of the *'siibway" \-ariety, was honored in a surprise feature as Notre Dame Man of the Year. EDWARD L. BURKE was chainnan of the affair. 
Notre Dame Coach JOE KUHARICH and mem­bers of his staff were special guests at the Club's Sports-Stag-Smoker held May 18 at St. Michael's Hall. Hammond. 
Canton 
Rev. THO.MAS J. O'DONNELL, associate direc­tor of the Notre Dame Foundation, w-as the guest speaker April 9 when the Canton (Ohio) Club of Notre Dame obser\-ed Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner at the Holiday Inn Motel. T\%'cnty­five Notre Dame men and a number of their wives were on hand. Father O'Donnell spoke on the ob­ligations of the alumni to their school and urged the graduates to continue their educational process, primarily through reading, even though they have completed tlieir formal years of classroom work. He emphasized the instilling in the minds of their children the desire to learn through reading. As a result of Father O'Donnell's talk the organiza­tion of a reading-discussion seminar is in the planning stage. 
The next activities on tap for the Club are the Summer Communion Breakfast early in June with the N. D. students from this area and the annual picnic which will be held August I at 38th Street Park. 
—ED MACHUGA, Sccx-Trcas. 
Cedar Rapids 
A large number of alumni, parents and students gathered at the Shcraton-Montrosc Hotel for Cedar Rapids' third annual Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Father RICHARD J. GRIMM, C.S.C., Religious Superior at Notre Dame spoke on the student of tomorrow. He told the group that *'a well read boy, one that has read beyond the minimum high school requirements makes the best student." Many questions were raised about the best way to pre­pare a youth for college. 
Msgr. Maurice Sliechy (Vice Admiral USN, ret.) introduced Father Grimm. Many Notre Damers probably recognize the *'Admirar* as he spent 25 years at Catholic U. and spoke at \'arious Wash­ington. D. C , Notre Dame gatherings. 
Guests included: The Rev. Mr. CARL LEVEL­ING, '50, Mt. St. Bernard Seminary, Dubuque, la.; Mr. CY LOCHER and family of Monticello, la.; Mr. CHAS. CASH and family, Anamosa, la.; Mr. 
M. W. O'REILY, Mr. CHAS. SCHWLNN and Mr. JOHN PALUKA, and Mr. and Mrs. BRUCE MA­JERUS. 
Congratulations to Mr. GEORGE BENNIXG on his recent promotion to Group Leader in the Re­
search and Development Divlsloit of Collins Radio Co. —JOSEPH C. GREEN, Prcs. 
Central Florida 
Notre Dame men of the Orlando area were in­vited to take part In Universal Notre Dame Night ceremonies at the Florida Stale Convention in Fort Lauderdale, featuring Executive Vice-President Rev. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., and Alumni Secrc­tar>- JA.MES E. ARMSTRONG as guests from the campus. 
Central New Jersey m 
The two major social events of the Central Jersey Club since the last report emanated from the Gar­den State were the Christmas Dance in Perth Am-boy on December 20 and Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner Dance on .-\pril II in Plalnfleld. 
TONY GUIFFRE, chairman of the dance, dis­played his characteristic flair for providing a most enjoyable evening with danceable music and a highly delectable buffet. "Pres." D/\N GRACE proved the master of cordiality, by some ver\' pro­ficient table hopping. 
Central New Jersey's pair of Veeps, JOE SI­.MONS and ED SADOWSKI, co-clialrmanncd the 
U. N. D. night, attended by 120 members, wives, and friends at the Park Hotel. The success of tl^^ affair was assured with the presence of Father ED-/ MUND JOYCE, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University, as the honored guest and principal speaker. Jx\CK RE.AGER was presented with the **Man of the Year" award for his outstanding con­tributions, over the years, to the club and his com­munity. The entire Club is proud of Jack's ac­complishments. Giving able assists to Joe and Ed were DAN GRACE, JACK .McKENNA, KEN BUCK, JACK DOYLE, TONY GUIFFRE, CHRIS LARSEN, and JOE SEPKOSKI. 
Many of the members took advantage of the op­portunity to hear the Notre Dame Glee Club in their appearance In Sommcrville Easter Sunday evening. ^ 
Tlie Club is temporarily losing the services oi KEN BUCK who Is spending a tlirce-montli sojourn in Uncle Sam's forces at Fort Monmouth. 
Tlic Club would like to express, through these pages, its deepest sympathy to J.-\CK McKENNA for the loss of his parents who died in an auto­mobile accident recentlv. 
—JOE SEPKOSKI, Sec>-. 
Central New York (Syracuse) 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Central New York celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night on April ^ , 1959, at the Bellcvue Countr>- Club. Tlie Club haly a dinner dance, and Alumni Secretary JIM ARM­STRONG, w-as the main speaker. Jim gave a very inspiring talk, which was well received by the Club. 
JACK McAULIFFE was general dialrman and he uas assisted bv BILL BISER, DAN KELLEY, BOB 
McAULIFFE, PHIL SHEAN, JIM WELTER, and pACK VARXEY. About ninety people attended the affair. Our third annual Man-of-thc-Year au'ard u-as won by JACK TERRY, who is now serving on Governor Rockefeller's administrative staff. 
The Club honored LEO T. EAGAN, President of Eagan Real Estate, and ROBERT C. T\*0, Presi­dent of Portcr-Cable Machincr>' Company, as out­standing local businessmen. 
REV. JOHN HARRISON gave the invocation and REV. FR/\XCIS SHEEDY, a guest, gave the benediction. BILL BISER presented the Man-of-thc-Vear award and Club President J. GARVEY JONES also briefly addressed the group. It was announced that the Club, in conjunction with the Ladies Anx­iliarv', would make a donation to the Library /\sso­

iation drive in the name of MONSIGNOR TOO­0 ,IEY. Mrs. R.\LPH TAYLOR is president of the Ladies Auxiliary-. 
On April 13 the Syracuse Parochial League had its annual dinner. Main speaker was JIM CRO\\*­LEY, one of the Four Horsemen of Notre Dame. 
The Central New York N. D. Club presented its Playoff Trophy to Sacred Heart High school. Pres­ident J. Gx\RVEY JONES made the presentation. .-\bout 400 attended the dinner and JI.M CROWLEY was a tremendous hit. 
Our schedule for the coming months is as fol­lows: meeting, May 28, Casey's, DeWitt. N.Y.; family picnic, July 12, Green Lakes State Park; golf party and student sendoff, Sept. 10, place un­decided. 

Q —J. GARVEY JONES, Prcs. 
Central Pennsylvania 
Rev. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., was principal speaker at Universal Notre Dame Niglit ceremonies of the Central PcnnsyK"ania Club in Johnstown, Pa. Present were the new officers of the Club: Dr. GEORGE W. KATTER, '41, presi­dent; EDWIN E. SLICK, JR., '30, vice-president, and CHARLES G. HASSON, '42, secretary-treas­urer. Dr. Katter and E. E. Slick are from Johns­town, while Ciias. Hasson is an attorney in Ebcns­burg, Pa. 

Xhattanooga 
^ ^ TIic officers for vea 1959 of the Chattanoogathe year 
Notre Dame Alumni Club are: HERBERT J. HAILE, JR., '55, Chattanooga, Tenn.; president; MATT R. McINERNV, '37, Signal Mountain, Tenn.; Wcc-president; HENRY T. MADDEN, '51, Signal Mountain, secretarv'-treasurer. and EDWARD 
F. DAVIS, '43, Chattanooga, entertainment chair­man. 
Chicago 
Deputy Under Secretary of State ROBERT D. MURPHY, LL.D., '58. was the main speaker at the Notre Dame Club of Chicago's annual Univer­sal Notre Dame Night dinner,'held Monday, April 13, in the Sheraton hotel and attended by 700 Notre Dame men and guests. 
On March 7, Murphy was named the 1959 reci­pient of the Lactare Medal, awarded annually by Notre Dame since 1883 to outstanding .American Catholic laymen. The medal is generally regarded as the most significant honor conferred upon Cath­olic laymen in the United States. 
National .Alumni Director R.AY.MOND W. DURST, River Forest, was genei-al chairman of the Chicago Club's dinner this year. 
W. JOSEPH .MALONEY, a pioneer organizer of retreats for Catholic laymen, was named Chicago's ''Notre Dame Man of the Year." 
Maloney. a former public utility executive, has been active in arranging Notre Dame's summer re­treat for laymen for nearly 40 years. This retreat annually draws hundreds of Chicago area men. Since 194U. Maloney has been chief organizer of this retreat and for the past three years also has arranged week-end retreats at the University's new Our Lady of Fatima Retreat House. 
He has been an usher at St. Barnabas Church for 30 years and active in that parish's Holy Name Society. 
KENNETH G. ENRICHT, JR., chairman of the awards committee, said, "The committee felt that Mr, Maloney's many years of devoted work both in his parish and in the retreat movement best exem­plifies the University's motto of 'For God, For Countr>-, For Notre Dame,' which is the standard that guides our selections." 
Nominations for the award were sought from more than 100 Chicago area alumni. Maloney is married and the father of eight cliil­dren. One son is a Mar>'knoll brother and another 
^LABAMA—^Reunion of these three members of the Class of *25 took place when the 
T^otre Dame Club of Alabama celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night April 21 in Birming­ham. They arc (I. to r.) Joseph AI. Hagerty of Bessemer, Ala.; James £. Armstrong, Alumni Association executive secretary, and S. Eugene Sullivan of Birmingham, president of the Alabama Club. 
is studying for the priesthood at the Claretion llfls­sionary Father House of Studies in Washington, 
D.C. 
Among the many distinguished Notre Dame men present were: FATHER HE5BURGH, University President, who imparted Pope John*s blessing Car-ranged by VINCE MoXLOON of the Notre Dame Club of Rome); Rev. GLENN BOAR.MAN. C.S.C.. prefect of religion, who gave the invocation; Retir­ing President JACK MORLEY, introducing the nc%v officers. President PHIL FACCENDA, Vice-Presidents GEORGE MENARD and JOSEPH PAG­LIARI, Secretary ART CONRAD, Treasurer JIM DOYLE and the past and present honorary presi­dents. HON. NOR.MAX BARRY and HON. RAY­.MOND DRYMALSKI. GEORGE CONNOR was toastmaster. 
Cincinnati 
Club President STEVE HEEKIN visited the cam­pus recently bearing a check for $2,000 to supple­ment the $25,000 endowed scholarship fund which Cincinnati area alumni have invested with the Uni­versity. The check represented the proceeds from the recent Cincinnati Club Scholarship Ball. The scholarship fund is one of the two largest alumni club capital funds established at Notre Dame. 
Cleveland 
FRi\NK LEAHY was the principal speaker at the annual Rockne Communion Breakfast held April 12 at the Statler Hotel. MONSIGNOR GALL^\­GHER was the Mass celebrant at St. John's Cathe­dral. More than two hundred and fifty fathers and sons turned out to honor Our Lady and KNUTE ROCKNE. D.\N DUFFY once again sparked the breakfast as toastmaster. The Man of the Year award for 1959 was presented to RAY T. MILLER, '14, for his outstanding contributions to the or­ganizations and support of the Cleveland Alumni Club over the years. The Club's congratulations are extended to JIM UPRICHARD and DICK MILLER for their excellent job of making the Communion Breakfast a success. 
On April 30-the Club held its annual meeting for the elections of new officers for 1959. Unani­mously elected were the following: PAUL LILLIS, president; LEO BURBY, vice-president; ROBERT WALL.\CE, secretary, and WILLIAM SKELLY, treasurer. Paul Lillis was formerly vice-president of the Metropolitan Club of New York City. JOHN 
P. COYNE was appointed to the new position of recording secretary*, and the office of the Cleveland Club was changed to: 
Notre Dame Club of Cleveland, 612 Bulkley Building, Cleveland 15, Ohio, Ph. MAin 1-0389. 
The Club's heartiest congratulations were extended to the outgoing officers, RAY T. MILLER, JR., GER^\LD McGRATH, JOHN P. COYNE, and GEORGE HAM.MER for their cfTorts on behalf of the Club during the past year. A clieck was pre­sented by the outgoing treasurer to Clayton Leroux, chairman of the Sdiolarshlp Committee as a fur­ther contribution to complete the Club's second scholarship fund. CL.\YTON LEROUX announced that presently four local students were receiving three-or four-year scholarships from the Cleveland Club and that both the demand and quality of applicants for scholarships for the coming year were the best in several years. The only other order r<f business at this meeting was a constitutional change raising the amount of the dues to $3.00 per year. 
Mrs. Agnes M. Smith, wife of EARLE C. SMITH of Cleveland wishes to announce that the Women's Advisory Council of the University has selected '*the neefis of the University Library** as Its spe­cial project this year and has organized the Notre Dame Library Association to help handle this prob­lem. It Is hoped that all Cleveland Alumni mem­bers and their friends uill act enthusiastically on the literature to be sent them regarding the Uni­versity Librar>-. 
IN MEMORIA.M On April 3, 1959, the University of Notre Dame and tlie Cle%'eland Club of Notre Dame lost a dear friend with the passing of CHARLES ROHR. A true son of Our Lady, Chuck Rohr gave of his time and his resources continually throughout Ills career as a Cleveland restaurateur for the better­ment and enjoyment of the Cleveland Alumni and friends of Notre Dame. Tlie annual picnic held at Rohr's Farm will never be the same without the presence of our host In his white apron and chef's hat. The Cleveland Club of Notre Dame extends their prayers and deepest sympathy to Mrs. Charles 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 15 

Rolir, and to his children Charles. Jr.. Thomas, James, Mar\- Ann and Loretta Rohr. ­—JOHN P. COYNE, Recnrding Secy. 
Columbus 
The Hon. SAMUEL L. DEVINE, U. S. Repre­

seniative fiom ihe Ohio Twelfth Coiigrcs<>ionaI Dis­
trict and graduate of the Xotrc Dame Law School, 
and the REV. STANLEY PARRY, C.S.C., Chair­
man of the Department of Political Science, were 
speakers at llie Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner 
pre>ented hy the Columbtis. Ohio. Alunini Chib. 
Hie iuhjecis di>cu>scd were the practical and theo­
retical a-specis., respectively, of American Politics. 
Tlie annual Notre Dame Man of the Year award 

was presented at the dinner to DR. JOSEPH 
HUGHES, vvho was lecenily re-elected as president 
of the Cohimbiis chapter. In addition to Dr. 
Hughes, the oiiicr newly-elected officers of the 
chapter were introduced to the gathering. Thcv 
were BOB ECHENRODE, vice-pres.; ^HKE CANT­
UELL, Si-creian.: P.\T CrVNTU'ELL, treasurer: and 
JACK GORDON, AL FRERICKS, and JOHN 
IGOE, trustees. 
Bext wisius to JAMES PRICE, former sccretarv'. 

now woiking in the Nc\»ark, N. J., school system. 
—.MICHAEL N. a\NT\VELL, Sec>-. 

Connecticut Valley 
.-\l)oiit siMy alumni and wives were on hand for the Connecticut Vallev N. D. Club's L'nlversal Notre Dame Xii:ht in Ilarlfoid. Deau JA.MES A\'. CULLITO.V ..f the Notre Dame College of Com­merce spoke on problems of piesent and future sl^denI^. 
Dallas 
Nolle Danie men were ver>- much in evidence at 

the SI. Patrick's Day Dance of the .\ncient Order 
of Hibernians {Tex-Erin Divi>ion). 
Texas .Attorney General IJilf Wilson Was a .spe­

cial cuest at the Notre Dame Communion Break­
fast March 15 at Dallas University. MARIT O'­
CONNOR was chairman. 
With tvio boys studying at Notre Dame on Dal­

las Club scholarships, another scholarship for S2.-10n 
is being offered. JOHN MOR;\N is chairman of 
the scholarsliip committee. 
Univer'.al Notre Dame Nii;ht was celebrated .April 2 at the Downtown Chib in Dallas. .A special miest was ED ".MOOSE" KUAUSE, None Dame athletic director. Ciiaiiman of the dinner wa>. E.MMET O'­NEILL. 
Dayton 
Ou February' 9 we had about 45 members and guests present ai a smoker meeting held at Siill­niiller's Restaurant. ED (Red) SHE.A, "2.^. was the guest of bonur aN we celebrated his election to the Boaid of Dbectnrs of the Notre Dame .Alumni .A— sociallon. Ed, who is generjlly conceded to Ije Notre Dame's foiemosi repicsenlative In the Day­ton aiea. was ver\- happy to receive the honor which he so fully deserves. Despite the iournalistic furore created by liie change of f«»oiball coaches shortly before his election. Ed found that the students seemed to be In sympathy with the turn of events. similar to the attitude expressed in the Scholastic editorial published In the .March ALU.MXUS. .An­other featuied speaker at our smoker was Wally Post, former slugger of the Cincinnati Reds and now an <mlfielder with the Philadelplna Plilllies. \Vally gave a brief talk about Ins baseball experi­ences and then graciously answered baseball ques­tions for an hour without ducking any of them. Wally said_ that he thought the hiring' of TERRY BRENN.A N as a physical conditioning specialist l>v Gabe Paul, General Manager of the Cincinnati Red-;, was a good Idea because fmitball required more thorough conditionioc than baseiiall and Terra's football background might help to introduce new ideas into the conditioning program of the baseball team. .A film covering the World Series Highlights of 1953 concluded the meeting. 
A luncheon meeting of the outgoing oificers and Board of Directors was held on February 23 In the Bihmorc Hotel Dining R<M>m to make final arrange­ments for Universal Notre Dame Night, to complete other business activities for the year, and to select a roster of candidates for the Club offices and two scats on the Board of Directors. 
On March 17 Father PHILIP SCHAERF, C.S.C., pastor of Sacred Heart Cburcli on the Notre Dame campus and Naticmal Director of the Cunfratcrnltv of the Immacuta :• Conception of Our Lady of 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June, 1959 
AKRON—From left, Joe Boland, '27, sportscaster and former lincmanj congratulates Man­
of-the-Ycar William G. Burkhardt, '35, Akron and toastmastcr Joseph Kraker second 
Lourdes. was ilie principal speaker for the Si. Pat­rick's Day Dinner at the Avondalc Club, spon­sored by the .Ancient Order of Hibernians. .A na­tive of Dayu-n. Father Schaerf gave an inspiring address recounting his experiences in an Irish en­vironment thioughont his years as a priest. He also spoke of hl> recent trips to Rome and Ireland. Members of the Notre Dame Club of Dayton re­newed acquaintances with Father Schaerf at the dinner. A nL'\el aspect of the occasion was the ser\'Ing «if green beer lo symbolize '"The Wearin* (and drinklii') of the Green." 
Our Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night on -April 8 with an excellent prime rib dinner at the Gibbons Hotel (SAM GIBBONS, '35, made the cuisine arrangements), attended by 75 members and guests. ED SHE.A presented the "Man of the Year'' awatd to our outgoing president. P.AUL L.AM­MERS, M8, for the considerable effort be irspended in keeping the Club rolling in high gear during the past year. 
The Universal Notre Dame Night address was de­livered by Dr. THO.MAS C«\RNEY, Vi'ce-Presldcnl in charge of research and development at the EH Lilly Company of Indianapolis. Dr. Carney, who received his bachelor's degree from Notre Dame In 1937 and his master's and doctor's degrees from Pennsylvania State University and who did addillc)n­al graduate work at the University of Wisconsin, discussed the lole of science in modern education. Dr. Carney explained that as consultant lo the Scc­retar>' of Health, Education, and Welfare, he as­sisted in a .sur\-ey of the curricula in grade schools, high scli04)Is. and colleges and universities. He dis­covered that the trend in some modern scliools is to operate a type of educational cafeteria permit­ting young students to select courses at random without pii>per guidance. .As a result, some stu­dents clioose all '"dessert" courses instead of having a few of such courses properly offset by a heavier scliedule of "meat and potato" courses . Dr. Car­ney asserted that although science is very impor­tant, it is but one part of culture. We must re­member, he stressed, that science, art, and philoso­phy are interrelated and that philosophy is the parent of science. 
Paul Lammers announced that the follovring members had been elected to office for the coming vcar: President: HER.M.AN A. ZITT, '48; VIcc­iVcsIdcnt: WALTER J. GEREND, '39; Secretary: GEORGE A. PFL.\U.M, JR., *54; and Treasurer: .ANDREW AMAN, JR., '30. Andy descr\cs the title of "Mr. Moneybags" for being re-elected Treas­
 industrialist, as Club President Bob Kapish  the motion at Akron's U.X.D. Night. 
urer for the *'unipieenth" time. The two members 
ncwlv-elected to our Board of Directors are J.AMES 
A. BOSCO, '34, and WILLIA.M W. .MacMILLAH# JR., '52. Other members of the Board <if Directors are: LEO J. (Bud) CONDRON, '49; PAUL HAM­MERS, who, as retiring President, automatically becomes a member of the Board: TO.M L.AND­GREN, '49; FR.ANK E. McBRIDE, JR., '50; and EDWARD (It's a girl!) STEINER, '44. Ed's daughter, Mary .Alice, comes as a welcome addition to the f-imily, having been preceded by four boys. 
ED SHE.A, who is also Dayton Chairman of the Notre Dame Foundation, receivetl from Paul Lam­mers $500.00 which constitutes the Dayton Club's gift to the Notre Dame Foundation. In accepting the gift, Ed announced that he had recently re­ceived notice from the University that more than 57*^ of the Dayiim Chib members had contrlbutt^ to the Notre Dame Foundation In 1958 — appr ^ ciably above the national average. 
Paul Lammeis also gave a check of $300.00 to JACK O'BRIEN, '41, our outgoing Vice-President, who accepted it on behalf of .Archbishop .Alter's Fund established fitr the puriio^e i)f erecting Catho­lic high schools in the Greater Dayton area. 
The thanks of the Club were proffered to Mrs. W.ALT (Louise) GEREND, who quarterbacked the Information gathering service for our new Club Di­rectory, and -Mrs. BOB (Charlotte) HOLLEN­C.AMP, who arranged for the printing. Other members of the Women's .AuxIIIar\' who served on the Director." team are: Mis. DICK (Bettv) BOHN, .Mrs. JL\I (tbelma) BOSCO, Mrs. TO.M (Suzann^ L.ANDGREN, and Mrs. HANK (Leila) ROHL. T 
Ed Shea also mentioned that Miss .Adelaide Tyler <»f Dayton was deserving of a special word of praise from the Dayton Club for her remarkably successful efforts in selling tickets fitr our Club ac­tivities through the years and for being one of the most loyal boosters uf Nottc Dame to be found any^vhere. 
The new co-chalnvomen of the Women's .Auxiliary of the Notre Dainc .Alumni Club of Davton for 1959 arc Mrs. WALTER T. (Alma Beth) GRADY and Mrs. WILLI.AM R. (Rita) PL.A'n'. The wo­men have been making plans for a baseball excur­sion, a square dance, and a Christmas dinner-dance. 
The University of Notre Dame is well represent*|k on the faculty and staff of the University of Da*-' Ion. operated bv the priests and brothers of the Societv of Marv.' HARRY BAUJ.VN, '17. Is Direc­tor of Athletics; WILLIAM (Bud) KERR, '40. Is Head Football Coach; Dr. EDWARD A. HL'TH, 
'28. is Professor of Sociology-; Dr. RICHARD —liAKER, '31, is Professor of Philosophy; Dr. JO­SEP H PAPPAL.\RDO, '49. is Professor of Clicmis­
ir>-; and RAYMOND STITH, '54, is vVssistaiit Pro­fessor of Civil Engineering. 
Harr\' Batijan •was hiinored rcccnlly by being in­cluded among the 50 nominees for the National Football Foundation Hall of Fame for 1939 an­nounced by the Honor Court of the Foundation lo­cated at Rutgers University. Ten of the 50 were coaches and the rest were outstanding players. Se­lection of 10 persons from the 50 nominees lo the Hall of Fame, which now numbers 162, will be made at a later date. Harr>* coached football at Dayton from 1923 to 1946. 
On February 22, Dr. Pappalardo joined other -jiiembers of liic University of Dayton factdty in con­^Jncling a science program, entitled '"Tlic Science of 
Fuels," on Television Station WLW-D, Daylon. 
Life has many oddities. Hax-ing an allcrg>' is one of them. Some people are allergic to certain foods; other people aie allergic to certain fonns of plant life. Bui our HANK ROHL, '40, had to be dilFerent. He is allergic to his job! Hank, who is a top-notch aeronautical design engineer at the 
U. S. Air Force Wright .Mr Development Center in Dayton, has found that when he fingers blue­print papers too frequently, the chemicals in the paper produce a rash en his hand.<i. So Hank, who must analyze blueprints, is forced to use ingenu­ity to keep Ills hands a respectful distance from iiis work. 
Q —WALTER J. GEREND, *39, Vlce-Pres. 
Dearborn 
.•\ general meeting of the Dearborn Club was held March 20 at the home of JACK COURTNEY, featuring nominations for the 1959 ollicers and a showing of the football highlights of 1957. AL DO­L.-\N did the honors. 
Elected as the new officers of the Notre Dame Club of Dearborn for 1959-60 %vere: JOHN FISH, president; JI.\I KING, vice-president, and JOE BYRNE, secretar^'-tieasurer. The three new direc­tor;, until 1962 are JACK FISCHER, JERRV G.VSS and DICK KING. The ne.\t general meeting was 
^%eld .-\pril 24 at Dick King's home. Notre Dame 
>*oininuniun Sunday was observed May 24 at St. Beniadettc's Church, with breakfast following at the Dearborn Inn. John Fish was chairman. Jerr\' Gass will host a general meeting June 12, and a family picnic will be lield on June 28. 
Decatur 
A. C. MOR.-VN, JR., was chairman of a St. Pat­rick's Day Party on March 17, while Universal Notre Dame Night was held on April 22, with .\. F­L.-\NDOLT as chairman and r\ssist3nt Law Dean JOHN BRODERICK as guest speaker. Next event will be the annual Stag on July 16, with J. F. FOY as chairman. OlHcers of the Decatur Club arc: BERNARD A. .MARTV', president: ROBERT R. UHL, vice-president; GEORGE H. HUBBARD, treastircr; .MILTON J. BEjVUDlNE, secretarv, and REV. ARTHUR D. LcBRETO.V, chaplain. Direc­tors are BERNARD B. LIVERGOOD, SY L. R.\­PIER, and A.MBROSE C. MORAN, JR. 
Delaware 
REV. GEORGE BERNARD, C.S.C., Notre Dame's Vice-President for Student .-VfTairs, was a guest speaker at the Delaware Club's Universal Notre Dame Night in Wilmington in .-Vpril. Father Bernard was a particularly qualified speaker on this year's U.N.D. Night theme, '*T<»niorrow's Student." 
Denver 
The Denver Notre Dame Club celebrated its twentieth anniversary- of Universal Notre Dame Night, and did its part in celebrating the one hundredth anniversar>' of Colorado's Rush to the Rockies of 1859 in the biiigest wav pn>sible bv hav­ing F.VTHER THEODORE HF.SBURGH, the Uni­versity's President. a.s its guest of honor at the dinner-dance on .April 6. 1959 at the Lakewood Ctumtry Club. The Denver area was greatly hou­oied in this first visit of a University President this far west in some time. -Approximately 300 people turned out to welcome him, to celebrate Universal Notre Dame Night, and to listen to his inspiring talk. Other dignitaries included .Vrchbishop Urban 
J. Vehr, the Catholic Governor, Steve McNichols, and Mayor of Denver W. R. Nicholson. Other speakers of the evening included honored guests Father Lucas Cervantes. S. J., outstanding educator of Regis College, and Father Jones, superintendent of the Denver Catholic Schools. The Committee was chairmanned bv President JI.M SHEEH.-VN and in­cluded LEO.N ARCHER, BOB ZEIS, BOB DELINE, R.\Y TRrrZ , JI.M H.ANLON and CARL EIBER­GER. 
The recently elected new officers and directors for the 1959-1960 year were introduced at the din­ner. These included President LEON ARCHER, Vice-President CARL EIBERGER, Secretary BOB ZEIS, and Treasurer for another year, GER^VRD SMI'TH. The Club directors include the outgoing President, JIM SHEEH.VN, who is to be greatly lauded for the fine job and many wonderful activi­ties accomplished through his direction this past vcar, R.W RISTOW, FR.\XK CONW.AY, ART GREGORY and LOUIE HOUGH. 
Abo introduced at the dinner was Eugene Blbh, Jr., the Club's 1959 Scliolarship •winner to Notre Dame. Gene had an outstanding academic, athletic and e.xtracurricular activity In high school and will be a fine representative to Notre Dame from this area. He is the son of 1943 alumnus, EUGENE BLISH, SR., who has continually done so much for Notre Dame and the Denver Club and has been instrumental in getting many boys back to Notre Dame. Tlic Scholarship Committee, who had a difficult time in choosing between the many fine applicants, included TO.M GARG.AX and FR.ANK CONWAY, co-chairmen, and ROBERT FLYNX, AL 0'.ME.\RA, TONY POJ.\L\N, and CARL EI­BERGER. Father Hcsburgb was guided around the city by Jim Sheehan during his two-day visit. He appeared on numerous TV and radio programs and attended a special luncheon of Catholic la>Tnen. During his last day lie was a guest of the Arcli­bishop. He received Denver's highest award, the Silver Dollar award from a representative of the mayor. 
.Another "big" visitor from Notre Dame recentlv W.-IS ED ".MOOSE'* KRvXUSE who spoke to the Catholic Parent-Teachers* League .Annual Conven­tion in Denver on the subject. "Our Educational Commitment to the Future." Many club members turned out to hear his talk and then later at­tended a cocktail partv In his honor arranged bv LEON ARCHER. Following the party. JOHN DEE, alumnus and former basketball coach at No­tre Dame and now coach of the Denver-Chicago Truckers, reserved seats for the Club and their friends and families at Fans .Appreciation Night which celebrated the victory of his team in winning the N.l.B.L. crown. Moose Kraiise attended the game with the Governor of Colorado. 
Another recent social event was the showing of the film highlights of the 1958 football season for the Club members and their wives at the Wilshirc Country* Club following an excellent dinner there. The films were later shown to many parish groups by Jim Ilanlon and Jim Sheehan, Club President. 
At Christmas time the alumni joined with the present students at the annual Christmas Dance held 
fFFALO—From left, Assistant Pace Secretary Paul Kcim holds Futurity Ciiicf, winner of the 1958 Notre Dame Pace at Buffalo Race­way last June 17 (with driver Ted Aldrich), as Henrj- Balling, Jr., chairman of N.D. Night at the Races and 1959 president-elect, and 1958 President Jack La Vigne receive a check from James J. Dunnigan, president of Buffalo Raceway. Notre Dame Night will be held 
this year on July 7. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ June, 1959 
at the Wotliurst Counlo' Club. The dance was well 
attended bv both groups. The chainiian was JIM 
COUGHU'X. 
JOHN MOR:\N, JR., has been busy preparing a 
new club roster. More and more alumni arc mov­
ing into this fast growing area. Included are new­
comers FRANK LE.\HY, former football coach, 
and his large family who love the City of Denver. 
Frank finds many of his new business activities arc 
concentrated in this area. 
—C.\RL F. EIBERGER, X^cc-Pres. 
Des Moines 
On April 25 the Notre Dame Club of Des Moines, la., celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a banquet. A guest from the campus WXLS REV. RICHARD J. GRIMM, C.S.C., Religious Superior of the University. 
Detroit 
WILLIAM C. ROXEY, JR., and JOHN W. AN­
HUT were co-cliainncn of llie Animal Dinner March 
5 at tlie Botsford Inn. Tlicrc was a .spi-cial tribute 
to tlie past presidents of the Detroit Club. 
The following ofiirers were elected to serve during 
the I959-I960 season: DON HERROX, president; 
LOU CONROV, first vice-president; WILLIAM 
RO.VEY, second vice-president; THOMAS J. VER­
BIEST, treasurer, and WARREN J. ASHLEY, sec­
rclan-. Directors through 1962 are PETER KER­
NAN, TOM VERBIEST, WILLIAM (i\RROLL, 
EDWARD HICKEY, JOSEPH CAREY and JERRV 
.\SHLEY. 
TIic 3fith annual Universal Notre Dame Night was observed in Detroit on April 8 at the Latin Quarter. REV. THEODORE .M. HESBURGH, C.S.C., president of the University, was the princi­pal speaker. LOU CONROY and RW J. BONINI were chairmen of the event. 
Eastern Indiana 
WILLI.VM F. CR,\IG, SR., vice-president of Tri-
City Radio Corporation. Muncie, was chosen as its 
Man of the Year by the Eastern Indiana Notre 
Dame Club .April 21. -A dinner celebrating Univer­
sal Notre Dame Night was held at fi7 Supper Club. 
JOHN LAUGHLIX, managing editor of the No­
tre Dame ALUNi.NUS, was the speaker. Toastinas­
ter was JOHN C. H\'NES, 1958-59 president of the 
club. The award cited Craig for his devotion to his 
clmrcli, his family, his life work and his community. 
For 1959.60 the club elected the following officers: WILLIAM F. CRONIN, Hartford Citv. president; JOSEPH MAHER, New Castle, vice-president; RICHARD A. GREENE, Muncie, secretary-, and FRANCIS SCHWEIER, Hartford City, treasurer. Directors will be: JAMES LUKEN, Richmond; ROBERT CRONIN, Hartford Citv; THOMAS A. CANNON, Muncie; KENNETH MEYERS, Dun­kirk; PHIL KELLY, Marion; ED SMITH, Ander­son, and FRED LYSHOIR, Portland. 
Notre Dame men and guests from Muncie, New-
Castle, Richmond, Dunkirk, Plymouth, and South 
Bend attended. 
Honors for the longest-time graduate of . Notre Dame went to CHARLES F. VOGT, of Muncie, Class of 1900. Mr. Vogt is a past president of the club. 
—DICK GREENE, Secy. 
El Paso 
ED KRAUSE, .\lhlctic Director of Notre Dame, visited El Paso on April 7 and helped us celebrate Universal Notre Dame Night. A banquet was held at the Hilton Hotel and along with the Notre Dame .Alumni and tlieir guests, some of the St. Mar\-'s .•Vlumnac living in the El Paso area wcic present for the festivities. 
Tlie St. Mar\'s representatives were Mrs. Grace Beck Goodell. Mrs. Jeannettc Trautscliold Brown, Mrs. Marv- Jo Brown Holik and Mrs, Mar>- Ryan Darling. 
Notre Dame men present were ED KRAUSE, our guest of honor and W. GORM^W BROCK, '49; DR. ED T. ETTL, '41; TOMMY FOY, '39; ED HERSKOWrrZ, '54; JACK HADDOX, *5I; ED JENNINGS, '53; REV. FATHER IRVING KLIS­TER, '39; GUS -MOMSEN, '49; R. F. MOMSEN, *28; CHARLES METZGAR, '45; NASH NAVAR, *53; ROBERT O'MALLEY, '44; HUGH O'DON­NELL, '41; RICHARD REUSCHER, '57; JAMES RYAN, '53, and RICHARD SMITH, '37. 
Erie 
Attorney JOSEPH C. BARBER was honored as "Notre Dame Man of the Year for 1959" by the 
28 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 

CALUMET—At Universal Notre Dame Night ceremonies of the Calumet Region Clu^' 
(1. to r.) Edward L. Burke, program chairman, and Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C., special assistant to the N.D. vice president for student alTairs and featured speaker, look on 
as Bishop Andrew G. Grutka of Gary receives the Man-of-the-Year award from Club President William J. O'Connor. 
Notre Dame Club of Erie at its annual banquet at the Kahlnva Countrj' Club April 14, celebrating Universal Notre Dame Night. The recipient joins a distinguished group whicli includes ARCHBISHOP JOHN MARK Gx\NNON and JOHN FRANCIS aVRDINAL 0'HAR^\, V.D.V., who was similarly honored in Philadelphia the same evening. 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, executive secrctarv- of the Notre Dame Alumni Association and assistant director of the Notre Dame Foundation, was the principal speaker. REV. EDWARD J. WOZNIAK, S.V.D-, and REV. JOHN CARTER of the Erie diocese, also spoke. JOHN J. .McCORMICK, JR., president of the Club, was toaslmastcr. 
Evonsville 

Tlie 36th annual Universal Notre Dame Night was obserx'ed by the E\*ansvillc Club on April 23. The tlicme of the program was "Tomorrow's Stu­dent," and the guest speaker was FATHER DE­NEEN, Superintendent of Scliools for the Diocese of EvansviUe. Tlie following ncwiy-elected officers were installed; DON HALLER, president; GENE JOHNSON, vice-president, and Charlie Maninn, secretary-treasurer. The scene was cocktails and dinner at Smitty's. GENE JOHNSON was in charge of reservations, and the ceremony was conducted by 
E. FRED THEIS, retiring president. 
Flint 

Tlie annual meeting of the University of Notre Dame Club of Flint was held Mondav, Feb. 16 at the Elks Club. 
Following reports of the \-arious committees the members voted to contribute $500 to the University of Notre Dame Foundation. 
ARTHUR T. PARADIS, '49, was elected presi­dent succeeding JAMES J. SHERRY, JR. Other officer elected were VICTOR E. GEORGE, '53, first vice-president, ROBERT J. MacDONALD, '36, second vice-president, and HAROLD R. STINE, '36, secretar\*-lreasurer. 
Tlie following were elected to the Board of Di­rectors: THEODORE MANSOUR, JAMES J. SHERRY, JR., L.\WRENCE SAXE, JOSEPH E. OKOPIEN, WILLLVM F. MINARDO, and EMERY 
A. SHERWOOD. 
Committee chairmen for the next year's activi­ties including the annual football excursion were appointed. 
Dean LrVWRENCE H. BALOINGER of Notre Dame's College of Science u'as guest speaker at the Universal Notre Dame Night meeting of the Flint Club at the Knights of Columbus Hall on April 28. He spoke on the theme, "Tomorrow's Student." MONSIGNOR SHERIDAN was honored as Notre Dame Man of the Year. At elast 200 were 
present for the dinner. 
Fort Lauderdale 
Notre Dame families from all over Florida g^tb-, ered at the Florida State Convention in Fort Latfl^') dcrdale the week end of April 24-26. Center of the festivities u'as the fabidous Sea Ranch Motel. The State Convention featured a Universal Notre Dame Night dinner April 25. REV. EDMUND JOYCE, C.S.C., executive vice-president of Notre Dame, and JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, executive secretary of the .•Miitnni Association, were special guests at the convention. 
Fort Wayne 
Notre Dame Freshman Coach HUGH DEVORE was featured speaker and DICK ROSENTTHAL was toastmaster of the Central Catholic High Letter-man's Banquet. j ­
JACK SCHENKEL and JIM SCHENKEL wei%) co-chairmen of the Fort Wayne Club's annual Re­treat at Sacred Heart Seminary March 15. REV. JOSEPH FIGHTER, O.S.C., was retreat master for a score of Notre Dame men who took part in the all-day exercise. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated on April 15 at the Orchard Ridge Country- Club. Guest speaker was JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, ex­ecutive 5ecrctar>- of the Notre Dame Alumni Asso­ciation, who spoke on "Tomorrow's Student" lo the 200 alumni and guests. JOSEPH P. COLLI­G.-VN, Fort Wayne businessman and humanitarian, was honored as "Notre Dame Man of the Year." DONELLY P. MCDONALD. JR., who made tl ^ award, told of his ten cliildren and his activitinl^ with the St. Vincent de Paul Society. LOUIS NIE­ZER was chairman of the au*ard committee and DICK ROSENTHAL ^^-as chairman and toastmaster. 
Golden Circle 
More than forty alumni, parents and guardians of students, and guests heard Jim .•Vrmstrong speak at the first meeting of the Golden Circle Club held in more than five years. Tlic dinner meeting took place at the Castle in Olean, N.Y., on Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Toastmaster was JAMES F. McVAY, '43. Also at the head table were the Very Rev. Brian Lhota.. O.F.M., president of St. Bonavcnture UniversitA^) the Rev. Frederick Reilly, assistant pastor of St. Bernard Church, Bradford, Pa.; DR. RUSSELL J. JANDOLI, '40, dinner chairman, and Mrs. Arm­strong, Mrs. McVay, and Mrs. Jandoli. 
In an election held as part of the program, JIM McVAY was named president, Prof. NICHOLAS J. AMATO, '44, vice-president, and NICHOLAS J. 

^|iSH , '49, sccrctar^'-trcasurer. ^ Ollicrs present were JOSEPH W. FITZPATRICK, '43, and his ivifc -Margery; GERALD FITZPAT­RICK, '49, and his wife Jean; DANA G. FITZPA­TRICK, '52, and his wife Bcmicc; LEO E. HU.M­MERICH, JR., '32, and his wife Judith; BRENT T. STEUERWALD, '56, and his wife Barbara; WLLIAM D. FOTE, JR., '32, and hU guest. Miss Elizabeth Knafeic; JOSEPH C. COS­T/\N20, '53, his wife Marilvn, and mother, Mrs. Rcna Costanzo; JOHN E. RITZENTHA­LER, '34; ROBERT J. FLINT, '33; H. EDWARD NESTLERODE; JOSEPH P. THELEN, '39 and wife Mar>- Ruth. Others included Miss Mar\- L. Ryan, Mbs Mar^' T. Moran, Mr. and Mrs. Carl 
^iB. Peterson, Miss Jane Farley, Mrs. George L. O'­^jbonner and Mrs. Joseph Sl. McGinnis, most of whom are parents or guardians of students. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan 
Professor JOHN' BRODERICK, assistant dean of the Notre Dame Law School, was guest speaker at the Universal Notre Dame Knight meeting of the 
N. D. Chih of Grand Rapids and Western Mich­igan April 15. 
preen Bay O 
^ ^ CLYDE R. BUNKER was named Man of the Year by the Green Bay club at Universal Notre Dame Night, April G. Bunker is a past-president of the Green Bay Holy Name Deaner>% liis parish society and a former three-state president of the Sulphite and Mill Workers Union. BILL E.ARLEY, former backfield coach under FRt\XK LEi\HY, outlined the 1959 prospects for JOE KUHARICH'S team and cleared up the mud on the TERRY BRENNAN dismissal. Some 75 alumni and guests heard DICK CON­LEY'S interesting and informative slide-talk on his "Two-Year Trip fVround the ^Vorld On a Shoe­string." Dick and a partner spent 22 months tra­veling completely around the globe. Dick said one ^ f the highlights of the trip was a visit to the ^^engal Missions in India wlierc he heard of the Notre Dame viclor>' over Oklahoma in 1957, 7-0. Retiring president JOE NEUFELD introduced WALLY CHRISTMxVN, incoming president. Serv­ing with Wally are TO.M MURPHY, vice-president; BOB SCHAEFER, Secrelan' and DR. DAN SHEr\, treasurer. New faces at the 36th annual affair included BOB NICKODEM, up from his bank in Sheboygan; LJ\RR Y RYf\N, recent transfer from Milwaukee: 
© 
CINCINNATI —The place is obwously Notre Dame, but Stephen P. Heekm (cen­ter), president of the Notre Dame Club of Cincinnati, presents the Club's check for S2,000 to Rev. Thomas J. G'DonncII, as-Qciate director of the Notre Danic Founda­tion, and Alumni Secretary James £. Arm­strong, to swell the $23,000 Cincinnati scholarship fund at the University. 
CHUCK KING, who moved from Beloit; JACK STONE.Mj\N, down from Sturgeon Bay; JOHN 
HOFF, late of -Milwaukee. 
—TO.M .MURPHY, Vice-Prcs. 

Harrisburg 
JIM ARMSTRONG, ctecutive secretary of the Notre Danic .'Mumni /\s5ociation and assistant direc­tor of the Foundation, addressed the Notre Dame Club of Harrisburg April 7 in the Penn-Harris Ho­tel. Officers present were DONALD R. MEEK, president; RICHARD D. CROWLEY, JR., vice-president; ROL^VND H. BERGER, JR., sccretarv-, and EDWARD R. ECKE.VRODE, JR., treasurer. 
Hawaii 
The University of Notre Dame Club of Hawaii celebrated Universal Notre Dante Night at a gatli­cring held on April 17, 1959. It was a highly suc­cessful affair with more than 47 alumni and friends attending. The program included the installation of the 1959 oflicen and the introduction of all nc^v members to the club. REV. FR^VNCIS D. BRIDEN­STINE, C.S.C., chaplain at Schoficid Barracks, was the guest of honor and the principal speaker for the evening. He spoke on the "Value of a Notre Dame Education." AVALTER TAGAWA, '52, DON MACHADO, '50, and NEIL VASCONCELLOS, '54, were installed as president, vice-president, and treasurer, respectively. I was elected as secretary to fill the vacanc>- left by VAL CHUN, '54. 
—RICHARD LEONG, Scc^-. 

Hiawathaland 
BILL E/VRLEY, former player and backficld coach under FRtVNK LE.\HY, was guest speaker at Uni­versal Notre Dame Night festivities of the Hiawa­thaland Club April 4 in Escanaba, Mich. 
Houston 
ED (MOOSE) KR.\USE was on hand for the Houston Club's Universal Notre Dame Night, at the River Oaks Countrj" Club April I, even though his plane arrived in Houston nearly three hours late. Nearly 150 attended the banquet. PAUL DOYLE, '36, was honored as Notre Dame Man of the Year and received a plaque. LEIGHTON YOUNG, outgoing president, gave a short talk, and CONROY SCOGGINS, master of ceremonies, introduced the new officers. They are: L/\RRY KELLY, president; JERRY ODDO, LEO LINBECK and DON McCRORY. 
Indianapolis 
A record crowd of over 400 was on hand for this year's Universal Notre Dame Club night in In­dianapolis. The crowd gathered on April 7 at the Columbia Club to hear JOE KUHARICH, head football coach, discuss university poIic>- in regard to athletics and education. In the afternoon Coach Kuharich attended a press conference where he met many of the newspaper reporters in town. Joe made a lot of friends in Indianapolis and we certainly Iiope he returns very soon. 
^luch of the credit for a very successful N. D. night goes to TOM BULGER, vice-president, who was general chairman. TOM C:\RNEY, last year's recipient of our Man-of-the-Year award, was the toastmaster and he did a wonderful job. 
New officers were elected. Thev arc BOB WELCH, president; PAT FITZGER.\LD, vice-pres­ident; BILL .McGOW^VN, secretary, and DICK OWENS, treasurer. Dick is the only Incumbent and the only man in Indianapolis who can keep the club in black. Tlic new officers will be helped by the addition of TO.M CARNEY, LARRY TUR­NER, and LEO BARNHORST to the Board of Directors. 
Tlic other big highlight of the night was the an­nouncement by" JOHN ROC/\P, of this year's re­cipient of the Indianapolis Man-of-thc-Ycar award— JOHN O'CONNOR. Certainly no one more dc­ser\-es the honor than John, who has scr\'cd the local club in almost every capacity and who ts a leader of civic, religious and political affairs in this part of the countr>'. Significantly, he is scr\*­ing this year on the National .fMumni Board. 
—C. E. STL\LMING, Retiring Secy. 

Jackson 
The Notre Dame Club of Jackson, Midi., cele­brated Universal Notre Dame Night on April 28 witli cocktails and dinner in the ballroom of the Hotel 
CEDAR RAPIDS—Principals at Universal Notre Dame Night in Cedar Rapid% la^ included (1. to r.) Joseph C. Crcen, Club president; Rev. Richard J. Grimm, C.S.C^ Notre Dame religions superior, and Msgr. Maurice Shcchy (Vice Admiral, USN, ret). 
Hayes, Jackson. JOHN F. LAUGHLIN, managing editor of the ALUMNUS, was tlie guest speaker en the topic ^'Tomorrow's Student.'* Club President CARL F. Bx\CHLE, JR., was toastmaster and made the presentation of a "Men-of-thc-Ycar" award to Chief R. V. Gray and the Jackson Police Department, represented at the dinner by Chief Gray and Officer O'Siaughnessy of the force. The police were honored for their many ser\*iccs to the people of Jackson, s>*mboIizefi by a few spectacular sa\-ings of life and propertj'. 
Kankakee Valley 
REV. CHARLES E. SHEEDY, C.S.C., dean of Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters, was a guest speaker at Universal Notre Dame Night cere­monies of the Kankakee Valley Club on April 12. 
Konsas City 
With Lent following shortly after the Christmas season, the local club's activities were rather sparse from the Christmas Dance until the Univeisa! No­tre Dame Night function. 
Tlie annual Christmas Dance, this year being its seventh, was again held at the President Hotel tn Kansas City. Starting at the usual 7:30 time, the bar was opened for "all you wanted" until 8:30, when the blinking lights signalled the beginning of the dinner hour. Tlie 300 people, plus or minus a few, gathered to celebrate adjourned to the Grand Ballroom where they feasted on roast beef, and were entertained to the music of Les Copley and his orchestra. Highlight of the after dinner speeches \%-as the presentation of a framed letter and tickets to the Duke-Notrc Dame game to ROBERT METZ­LER, citairman of the annual Football Trip. Bob ser\'ed as cliairman this past year, and had the em­barrassing task of tr>ing to rid himself of a few extra tickets. It seems that it was too late to re­turn them to the University, as set forth by BOB CfVHILL, so the club framed them with the letter and presented It to him. Tlie evening was ended around 1 a.m. after much enjoyable dancing. 
fVfter surviving the holidays as best possible, tlie club took a brief respite before showing the Hi-lltes of 1958 early in Februar>-. About 40 ardent N. D. supporters jammed the basement of the Dan Ho­gerty Cocktail lounge. Dan, being a good N. D. supporter himself, was more than glad to have the group, who also turned out to be pretty good sup­porters of Dan himself! 
Lent then set In, and the members took to more serious matters, most of them being found at dally ^fass throughout the city. Of course, as always, the St. Patrick's birthday party interrupted the sol­emnness of the season, as many of the members were found at the Famous and Hogcrty Cocktail Lounges sipping the yearly version of green beer. This was the one day that all alumni really became Irish. 
During the Lenten season, however, the officers and committeemen were not inactive, as plans were laid for the annual Universal Notre Dame Night affair that always highlights the years' activities. Tills year's guest was Mr. DICK BOWES, an offi­cial of the Notre Dame Foundation, and also a 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 2959 19. 
past president of the Xotrc Dame Club of Kansas City, bclorc being grabbed up by the University. Dici was able to once again renew old friendships here and gave a good insight to many of the more pressing questions presented to him by the local alumni. Tlic affair was held on April 13 at the Black Angus Steak House in the south part of town. This year's affair was restricted to the male side of tlie alumni, and a nice crowd of approximately 75 were present. 
Preceding Universal Notre Dame Night, ballots were sent to all members for the new officers, who arc replaced evcrv- two years. Tlie officers elected for the coming term were: President, JOHN T. .\L\SSMAN, '56; Mcc-Prcs., J.VMES H. DcCOUR-SEY, '54; Secretar^^ GEO. J. HIGGIXS, JR., '53; Treasurer, HAROLD SOLOMON, '47. Tlicir plans were briefly stated at the Universal No­tre Dame Night affair, and retiring President ED. AYLWARD was presented wJth a memento of his tenure. 
Also coming fast to the front is the finals of the Scholarship Award of the Wlliain Rockhill Nelson Scholarship made cacli year during the latter part of the summer- Next time we hope to have the results. 
Kentucky 
On Sunday, Marcli I, the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky licid a Communion Breakfast at St. Mary ^fagdalen Church in Louis\'iIIe. 
At our regular monthly meeting on ^tarcll 24, Kcntuckv alumni were pleased to have as our guest MR. JANIES FRICK of the Foundation. Mr, Frick presented a most interesting and infonnativc talk, and also brought with him movies of the highlights of last season's football games. BOB WILLEN­BRINK, '49, arranged to have a projector and screen a^-ailablc, and a ver>* enjoyable evening was had by all. 
The Club gathered on Universal Notre Dame Night at the Provincial House in Louis\'illc on April 18, for an enjoyable dinner dance. Brother Thomas More, C.F.X., principal of Saint Xavier High Scliool in Louisville, was our guest speaker. The approximately 85 couples who attended helped to make the affair a Fine success, and our thanks go to DICK WILLENBRINK, '50, and LEO BROWN, '50, who handled the arrangements. 
Our annual retreat to the Abbey of Our Lady of Gethsemani In Trappist, Ky., was scheduled for May 22 and 23 this vear. Arrangements were han­dled by FRANK BLOEMER. 
Mr. ED BOSLER, a prominent Catholic layman in Louisnile, and father of Air Force Captain BOB BOSLER, '50, died recently. Tlie Club gathered to say tlic rosary for the repose of his soul. 
—JAMES C. KREBS, *56, Sec>-. 
La Crosse 
Our Universal Notre Dame Night celebration was held April 7 at the Cerise Club before a splendid turnout of members, their wives and guests, FATHER LOUIS PUTZ, C.S.C., of the Univcnity delivered tlie main address, wlilch was enthusias­tically received. It was a real pleasure to have Father Putz as our guest, and the many friends he has in this area welcomed the opportunttv to visit with Iiim. FREDERICK FUNK turned in an ex­cellent performance as toastmaster, and JERRY HEBERLEIN, who recently took over the Cerise Club, did a splendid job of handling tlic affair. 
In June we are holding our second annual sum­mer dinner-dance at the Country* Club. Engineered very- capably again by JOHN (Pete) RAU, chair­man, the function has proven Itself a successful means of early summer relaxation for members and friends, and has also won for Pete a steady posi­tion as head of the gala event. 
Congratulations were in order for president, JIMMY KRONER, on his announcement of a new addition to tlic Kroner household; regrets but best wishes to GENE S.MITH, District Manager of Equitable Life Insurance Company, on his transfer to tlic Milwaukee office. 
Members next point to tlic steak fry in September. -STEVE P.WELA, Sec>-. 
Lehigh YcHey 

For the third straight year the Universal Notre Dame Night celebration was a huge success. Over 200 alimmi, students, and guests gathered for a Holy Hour at St. Catherine of Siena parish in Allentown on Saturday, April 4. Fr. ED^VARD O'LOUGH­LIN, pastor of St. Catherine's and new^ club chap-Iain, conducted the ceremonies. Following the Holy 
CLEVELAND—Ray T. Miller, Jr., outgoing president, wishes luck to the newly elected ofiSccrs of the Cleveland Club: William Skelly, treasurer; Paul Lillis, president, and Robert Wallace, secretary. Leo Burby, vice-president, was not present for the picture. 
Hour, the group moved to tlic Hotel Traylor In Allentown for a dinner-dance. 
Features of the evening Included an address by Fr. GEORGE BERNARD, C.S.C., Vice-President of Student Affairs and the awarding of the *'Notre Dame Man of the Year" award to Dr. LOUIS T. GABRIEL, JR., past president. 
Fr. Bernard's address concerned the general theme of this year's Universal Notre Dame X'ight, ''Tomorrow's Student.** 
Chairman TONY TRIGIANI was master of cere­monies for the affair, and he presented this coming year's officers: JIM WALSH, president; BILL NL\R­TIN, vice-president; TOM MAGILL, secretarv-, and DA\'E NOLAN, treasurer. Guests included REV. THOM/VS O.DONNELL, CM., of the Mary Im­maculate Seminary, Northampton, and REV. STE­PHEN J. D.\DAY, principal of Allentown Central Catholic High Scliool. 
—TOM AL\GILL, Scc>-. 

Los Angeles 
April 9 was the date of Los Angeles* Universal Xotrc Dame Night. That very famous gentleman who has stirred up the **Big Controversy" in Los .•\ngelcs, Dodger President, Walter O'Malley, was guest speaker. Tlic Dodgers didn't open In Los Angeles until April 14 but Mr. 0'Malle>- returned to Los Angeles early in order to speak to the Notre Dame Alumni. In the entertainment department there were some wonderful surprises. Top Holly­wood personalities were lined up. Last, but not least by no means, we bestowed our Notre Dame Man-of-the-Ycar award for 1958 to that well-known and widely respected Notre Dame National Alumni Board Member and Bank of America Vice-President, GENE KENNEDY. Tlie only business conducted that night was a very* brief report on events of the past year and coming 1959 events, w*itli special em­phasis on the progress of our scholarship fund. 
Maine 
On April 2 we were privileged to sponsor the University Glee Club in tlie high school auditorium here in Lcwiston. Tliis being our first big venture, wc were more than pleased with the results. The concert was sponsored for the benefit of our scholar­ship fund and was a financial success as well as a very enjo>-able evening for tliose in attendance. A buffet supper was held at the home of RAY GEI­GER after the concert at which time the boys sang informally much to tlie delight of everyone. 
The pre\-ious night a concert was held in Bangor, which tilts year is celebrating its centennial. This 
trip was the first by any Notre Dame Glee Club to 
Maine. Tlie bo>-s were certainly a credit to thcm­
sehes and to the University and we in the Notre 
Dame Club of Maine look for\«'ard to another such 
trip in the not too distant future. 
Incidentally, during the Lcwiston concert a Srou^^ 

of six Bates college girls known as "The Merri'*' 
manders," sang a group of popular songs. 
—LEX TOBIN, Secy. 

Memphis 
On ^farcli 28 Memphis Club members turned out handsomely for a concert of the X'otre Dame Band on its Easter trip. 
Miami 
The ^ftami Notre Dame Club had a highly suc­cessful special dinner-meeting on Monday, Feb. 23 in the University Club of the Urmcy, to honor (^ visit from the ''wheels'* of the University. Approxi­mately sLxt>' alumni and guests attended the stag affair at which we were honored in having Father TOM 0'DON*NELL, C.S.C., Assoc Director of the Foundation, as principal speaker; JIM FRICK, , Foundation Director District III; and MOOSE KRAUSE, Director of Athletics. 
The following members of the Greater ^tiamI Foundation Committee were on hand: PARIS COW­ART, State Governor; I. I. PROBST, Cit\- Chair­man; ED HANLY, JR., HENRY KEEL, ED KEL­LY, CHARLIE MAHER, D.\N ROWL.ANDS, JIM SMITH, BILL WELCH, and MIKE ZOROVICH, Father Tom gave us a very informative and inspir—v ing talk on the Foundation and its aims for NotiV Dame in the next ten years. He covered the plans for the use of the 66 million dollars the Foundation hopes to procure, stressing such items as endowment for increased faculty salaries to obtain the best pos­sible teacliing staff, research, student aid, new buildings, etc., j\ND the alt-important item of alumni participation in the drive. 
With considerable persuasion we managed to get Moose off the subject of hm\- to catch sallflsh (he boasts a 6'6" sail was "caught" by Big Moose who is only a couple inches shorter) — how the fencing team fared, the cross-countr>- team, the tennis team 
— etc., etc, — to talk about a subject "knowed as*' Football — and he didn't fence with tlie ques­tion about football coaclics and related Items -d^ those of you who were there "got the word". . .*^' and I am sure enjoyed the past, present and fu­ture prospects of the Irish who will be here to meet Miami in *60 and perhaps in" other years to follow. And, speaking of the Irish, we wound up the eve­
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 

ning viewing the Highlights of 1958 season, which JIM FRICIC was kind enough to bring along. ) Among the guests were Dr. CHARLES MANNIN, 
• 
J. F. WAGNER. GEORGE LE^VIS, JUDGE RAY NATttAN, DEAX RICHARDS, *57, of N.Y.C., and a very special guest WILLIAM D. JAMIESON, Class of 1905 who honored us at the head table.. . . a few of the alumni included JxVMES F. X. O'­BRIEN, CLAYTON DUERR, JIM BOYLE, P.M. SCHAFER, ED J. PISTRY, ANDY McK^VY, BILL HUNTLEY, DAVID A. RUSSELL, RALPH MARI­ANI. 
At the Januar>- meeting your club viewed the full length monc of the N. D.-So. Cal. game. . . projection equipment courtesy of "Silent Sadowski with chief splicer Kelly at the controls. . . BOB HALPIN, BOB HANDTE, CHARLIE DONAHUE, 
WrOHN WAGNER, JIM WILSON, BILL STREE­
^/TE R and other confederates joined in backing the Irish \vhilst guests Dr. CHARLES MONNIN and CARLOS V/\SQUEZ held down the cliccring end for their Southern Cal. 
On Sunday, Jan. 18 your club celebrated one of the most important events of its yearly calendar. . . that of annual Communion Sunday . It is a credit to all of you who attended in that we had the largest turnout in the club's histor\-. . . a huge success brought about by the fact that His E.xcellencv BISHOP COLEMAN F. aVRROLL, the first Bishop of the new Diocese of Miami, honored us in the saying of the Mass at St. Mar%''s Cathedral, and in his speaking to us at our breakfast at the Top 
-JD'Thc Columbus. Wc arc most appreciative of the 
V^imc His E.\cellenc\' took from his demanding schedule, and we likci^isc thank Fr. Joseph ^fc-Laughlin, the Bishop's Sccrctar>% who also attended the alTair. We are indeed pleased at the photo coverage given us by The Florida Catholic, and by the North Dade Journal. The editor of the soon­to-bc-publishcd Tlie Voice, weekly Catholic paper of the new Miami Diocese is JOHN WARD, a fel­low alumnus of Notre Dame. 
The highlights of the April meeting were the awarding of the Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami annual Most Valuable Player Trophy to Steve Kolski, a tackle on the Archbishop Curlcy team, and the awarding of engraved gold footballs to Ed ^^cCormick (tackle) and Guy Carbonneau (end), 
^^oth from Curlcy, and to Jim Ellison (back) of 
Q^hristopher Columbus High. These four lads from the Miami area drew four of the eleven positions on the All-Florida Catholic Football Team for 1958. according to a poll of coaches and sports writers by our Club Selection committee, headed by ED KELLY. Tlie presentation of the gold footballs was made by President Charlie ifalier at the dinner given the bo%*s at the University Club. The presen­tation of the Most Valuable Plavcr award was made jointly by MONTY STICKLES and GEORGE IZO of the Notre Dame Varsity, who were honored guests of the occasion. Presentations of gold foot­balls to the other seven selectees will be made in their respective areas. 
Both Stickles and Tzo gave us splendid reports 

^•^n the players new of Notre Dame's football pros­
^ff^ects for the '59 season, and we expect to hear great things of these lads to add to their already fabulous achievements on the gridiron. On March I7th your ofHcers and directors at­tended, a^ guests of the Committee of 100, a spe­cial St. Patrick's Day affair at the Committee of 100 Clubhouse on Miami Beach. The speaker of the evening was Father JOYCE, E.xecutive Vice-President of the Universitv. Also attending was JIM FRICK. Wc extend our sincerest sympathy to the PAUL GLxVSS family on the death of their daughter, Missy. Our congratulations and best wishes to ^fr. and ^•Afrs. BERNIE LYONS on their recent marriage. Vi/ Among the guests was a former member of our Club —AL KESSING of the Jacksonville Club. It's always a pleasure to have you, AI. Other guests included DOUGL.\S G. COCHENNOUR, TOM O'HOLLOR^VN, TOM SOMMA; and of the forty in attendance wc spotted D. L. TOKER, RAY Mc-ADAMS, DON JARRETT, MACK SCHAEFER, BOB HANDTE, GEORGE KENNARD, JOHN LEWIS, BOB REILLY, MIKE O'NEIL, L I. PROBST, MIKE ZELLER, JOHN KOTTE, BILL STREETER, JIM WILSON, BILL McSILVNE, DAN ROWLANDS, BILL WELCH, MIKE ZORO­MCH, ART BERGEN, and TOM KAYLOR. Cousins, we wound up the evening u-ith an elec­tion that would have been a stumper for the author ^wf Roberts Rules of P. P. — but when the smoke 
over Directors are MIKE ZOROVICH and ED HANLEY. To the ncwly-clected: "Salute!" 
Also a duIy-cxccutcd amendment to the By-Laws was passed in which the term of ofHcc for Club Offi­cers is changed from two years to one year, elec­tions to be in Januarv*. 
Michigan City 
The Notre Dame Club of Michigan City observed Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner for the members, their wives, and guests on Saturday, April 4. 
Guest speaker of the evening was Mr. DAVE SL^VTTERY, executive 5ecrctar>- to JOE KUHA­RICH. In keeping with this year's theme, Mr. Slattcry gave a verv' informative and timely speccli entitled "Tomorrow's Athlete at Notre Dame.** In his speech he outlined the guiding principles and subsequent results of the true relationship between athletics and academics at Notre Dame and how this relationship would be carried on by the new football coaching staff. 
Mr. Slatter>- was introduced by J. EMMETT MILLER and a short welcomine address was given by Mayor FR/\NCIS G. FEDDER, both of the lo­cal club. 
On March 4 an organizational meeting for the coming year was held. Chairmen and committees were appointed by the new officers for the year's coming events. It was also decided that barring any unforeseen difficulties the club would sponsor its biennial train trip to the Notre Dame-Purdue game this fall. AH Notre Dame (and Purdue) sup­porters in the area are welcomed to participate in the trip. 
—W. C. ZEHNPFENNIG, Secy. 

Midland-Odessa 
Athletic Director EDWARD "MOOSE" KR/\USE was the guest of honor at Universal Notre Dame Night dinner-dance of Notre Dame Club of Midland-Odessa, held at the Midland Country Club on April 
4. The meeting was conducted bv Club President JOHN BUCKLEY of Midland, and BYRNE O'NEILL was in charge of arrangements. 
Milwaukee 
On April 14 the Universal Notre Dame Night meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee fea­tured a talk by DR. MARIO GOGLLV, new dean of the Notre Dame College of Engineering. ^VIso in town u-as ALL.\N POWERS of the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Mississippi 
Mississippi Notre Damers made a pilgrimage to New Orleans on Marcli 29 for a concert of the Notre Dame Band. 
Mohawk Valley 
The annual Universal Notre Dame Night observ­ance of the Notre Dame Club of the Mohawk Val* ley was held Saturday evening, April 11, at The Beeches in Rome, N.Y. 
Approxunately 130 guests attended the dinner-dance affair and heard principal speaker JIM ARM­STRONG, '23, secretary of the alumni association,', state that "most colleges today are Interested In the solid, all-around, boy who wants to share the benefits of his college education with his commu­nity." 
TONY GIRUZZI, '36, served as chairman of the event. JAMES T. GRIFFIN, 'M, prominent Rome attomev, did a terrific job as toastmaster, while FATHER FRANCIS AVILLENBURG, head of the Catholic Charities in Utica, gave the invocation. 
Speaking on the topic, 'Tomorrow's Student,** fVrmstrong stressed the idea that a well-prepared youth today need not worry about being a genius to get into college. 'Today's college student has more seriousness than yesterday's," he said, "and less tendency to bury himself. He doesn't ^vant to succeed for success itself but to achieve a place in life." Because of this changing goal, Armstrong said, it is necessary for parents and counsellors to step in early to aid young men in their college preparation. 
Area committee members assisting Giruzzi were BILL LYNCH, *54, Rome; DR. DANIEL C. SHAUGHNESSY, '30, and DR. DONALD A.GA­VAGAN, '42, Herkimer; JOHN J. McCANN. '50, Ilion; ROBERT BLOOM, '5i, Oneida; LOUIS P. CLARK, '3i, YorkviUe; L. DANIEL CALLAN, '50, New Hartford; FRANK W. DONALTY, '32, EDWARD A. REAGAN, '42, and EDWARD J. SWEENEY, '30, all of Uu'ca. 
DANIEL WATERBURY, *44. dub president, and his wiic were also at the speakers' table along with treasurer ROGER LEMKE, '58, and Mrs. Lcmke. 
On Sunday morning JIM ARMSTRONG and his charming wife attended Mass and had breakfast in Utica u-ith KEN MURPHY, '54, club secretary, and Mrs. Murphy. The Armstrongs then left for the remainder of their eastern swing. 
Congratulations, incidentally, are in order for two brand new fathers in the club. BILL LYNCH, '54, and ROGER LEMKE, '58, were each presented with baby daughters recently. Both are doing fine ­(the fathers, wc mean). 
-KENNETH F. MURPHY, Secy. 

Muskegon 
FRANCIS X. (TIM) BRADLEY, assistant dean of the Graduate School in charge of research and former acting director of Lobund Institute, was the guest speaker at Universal Notre Dame Night fes­tivities of the Notre Dame Club of Greater Mus­kegon, Mich., April 6. 
%llearcd away, CHARLIE MAHER announced the DENVER—Universal Notre Dame Night with the Denver Notre Dame CHub at Lakewood results as follou's: New Directors — ED KELLY Country Club April 6 featured such guests (I. to r.) as Steven L. McNichoIs, GoTcmar of 
(3-ycar term); HENRY KEEL, (2-vear term); JER­

Colorado; Most Rev. Urban J. Vehr, Archbishop of Denver, and Rev. Theodore M. Hesborg^ 
RY HOLLAND, FRED PIOWATY, and JOHN THORNTON (each for a one-year term). Hold­C.S.a, President of Notre Dame. . 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 21 
Naugatuck Valley 
Xotrc Dame men in the \Vatcrbur\', Conn,, area, gathered in Haniden with New Haven alumni for a joint celebration of Universal Notre Dame Xiglit on April 21. Ya!e Professor Emeritus Dr. Albert E. Burke was the featured guest. WILLIAM R. D\\*\*ER, Watrrburv'. a celebrated architect and citizen, was named Naugatuck Valley's Notre Oainc Man of the Year. 
New Haven 
EDWARD A. BYRNE, a .New Haven scliool 
teacher, was honored as the Man of the Year for 
1959 by the New Haven Alumni Club of Notre 
Dame University at its annual Universal N.D. Night 
held at the Carriage Drive Inn. Hamdcn. on April 
21. 
He was pre>ented with a scroll from the Univer­
sitv by JOSEPH BENOIT, president of the local 
club. 
WILLIAM R. OUTER, a Waterbur>- architect 
employed in New Haven, was similarly honored by 
the Naugatuck Valley Club who co-sponsored the 
c\'cnt. 
Dr. Albert E. Burke, noted TV personality, was 
the main speaker. 
New Haven, Walcrbur>' and Hartford area gradu­
ates and friends were among the 150 %vlio attended 
the aflfair. t 
Mr. Byrne graduated from N. D. with Class of 
1926, cum laudc and is immediate past president 
of the New Haven Club. He recently was elected 
to the Board of Directors for five years and has 
been active in many civic and political circles for 
many years. He and his family are active parish­
ioners of St. .Sedan's Church, New Haven. 
Byrne is married to the former Miss Teresa Far­
rcll of Wilkes-Barrc, Pa., and the father of two 
daughters. He is a native of Brooklyn, N.Y. 
New Jersey 
On April 6 the New Jersev Club was host to JOE KUHARICH, head football coach, and REV. CHESTER A. SOLETA, C.S.C., vice-president for academic afTaris at the University, for Universal Notre Dame Night. 
New Mexico 
Governor John B. Burroughs helped the Notre Dame Club of New Mexico celebrate Universal Notre Dame night by attending our banquet Friday, April 10. Judging from tlie way he put the Uni­versity's athletic director on the spot for a pair of good tickets to a future Notre Dame game, he seems to be one of our loyal "subway alumnus." 
Nearly 200 alumni and friends of Noire Dame greatly enjoyed the lobster tail dinner and the en­tertaining and moving talk delivered by the prin­cial speaker of the evening, "MOOSE" KRAUSE. 
A bouquet of thanks is also due to TONY De-COLA, political editor of tlic Albuquerque Tribune, for his admirable performance as master of cere­monies. 
The "Man of tlic Year" award went to Paul W, Salazar, former juvenile probation ofliccr for Berna­lillo County. 
Even more important than the fact that the ban­
quet was a fmancial success, was the fact tliat 
those in attendance enjoyed the evening immensely 
and took home a better appreciation of the aims 
and status of the University of Notre Dame. 
—L.\RRY O'CONNELL, Sec>-. 
4050 Smitli S.E. 
Albuquerque, Nc%v Me.\ico 
New Orleans 
Tlic Notre Dame Club of New Orleans had two \^its from tlie campus ^vitliin two weeks. First the Notre Dame Band, under the direction of ROBERT 
F. O'BRIEN, vbited New Oricans on ifarch 29, then went on to Alexandria. A little more than & week later the Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night on April 7. JIM FRICK of tlic Xotrc Dame Foundation was tltc guest speaker, evaluating tlie performance of X^'otre Dame in the academic arena with lib standards of a great university. Tlie toastmaster was Club President JIM SMITH, who, with the other officers, will guide the Club for an­other year. 
New York 
The annual Communion Breakfast u-as held on Sunday, December 7, at the Park Lane Hotel. Over two hundred Notre Dame men and their families 

22 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June^ 1959 
EASTERN INDIANA—^At Universal Notre Dame Night in Mundc, Ind., (from left) guest speaker John Laughlin, managing editor of the ALUMNUS, congratulates Man-of-the-Year William F. Craig, receiving his award from Retiring President John C. Hynes. 
and friends enjoyed this ahs-ay-s pleasant affair which, this vcar, was cliairmanncd by GORDON FORES­TER.' 
Club members, as *vere all Notre Damers, were saddened by the untimely death of one of the University's mnn popular personalities, the beloved JACK LrW^ELLE. Tlicy join all those who knew Jack in ofTering their sincere s>Tnpathy to Jack's family. (Tlic Board of Governors voted a §500.00 contribution to the Jack Lavelle Fund. Any club or alumnus wishing to make a contribution may do so by mailing it to "Tlie Jack Lavelle Fund, c/o Notre Dame Club of X*ew York, 1600 Broadway, New York 19, New York.") 
Tlie annual meeting of the General Membership was held on Jan. 15 at the New York Athletic Club. Tlie Board of Governors elected the following offi­cers to 5en.-c for 1959; President— J.AMES MAC-DEVnr , JR.; Executive. Vice-President — GOR­DON FORESTER; Secretary—WILLLAM V. CUD­DY; Treasurer —JAMES SPELLM.VN; Vice-Presi­dent, Long Island —JOSEPH WURZLER; \nce-Prcsident, Westchester — FRED CARIDEO; \^cc-President, Catholic Action — EDWARD XEAHER; Xlce President, X'otrc Dame Foundation—WIL­LIAM MURPHY; Vice-President, Trust Fund — J.VMES SHEILS; Vice-President, Trust Fund — HUBERT SCH.VFLY; Vice-President, Placement-GEORGE FRAZIER; \^ce-Prcsidenl, Career Clinic 
—
 JOHX DUNLE.\VEY; Vice-President, Public Re­lations-DONN DUFFY; Ass't, Secretary, Man­hattan — MICHAEL MALLARD!; .\ss't. Secretarv', Long Island —JOHX KEARNEY; /\ss't. Secretar>-, Westchester —JOSEPH DURKIX; Ass't. Treasurer 

—
 JOSEPH DERRICO; Chaplain—REV. CHARLES LEE. 


Tlie 1959 Country Squire Station Wagon which %\'as given awav at the annual meeting was won by Philip Ochsner of Lcvitiown. JOHN BOYLE sold the winning ticket. Tlie seller's prize of a $500.00 
U. S. Savings Bond was won by JOHX THOMAS, JR., '58. Proceeds from the raffle were deposited with the Club's Trust Fund. 
TIic Long Island Chapter sponsored a vcr>* suc­cessful dance on Februarv 8th at the Garden City Hotel honoring JOHX B. K.ANALEY, '09. 
A group of club members saw Xotrc Dame over­whelm Army (on the basketball court) on February' 9 at West Point. Proceeds from the sale of tickets went to the Jack Lavelle Fund. 
Two successful retreats were held tliis_ yean one in Februar\* at the Loyola Retreat House, and one in Marcli at the Bishop Malloy Retreat House. 
Tlic affair of the year. Universal Notre Dame Xtght at the Park Lane Hotel, ^\'as, as usual, a great success. Co-chairmen this year were BUD MULVEY and DAN CUNNINGHAM. Tlic princi­pal speakers were REV. JOHN P. KELLY, Execu­tive Director of N.C.C.S., and FATHER SOLETA, Vice-President in Charge of Academic affairs at the University. 
JIM SHEILS, '35, was honored as the "Notre Dame Man of the Year." Jim has been an active member of the New York Club for over t\»'enty years. He is a former Club 
President and is presently a member of the National 
.\Iumni Board. 
Jim, who 5cr\'ed as Commissioner of Investigations 

of New York City for several years, is a partner 
of Gregory & Co., members of the X*ew York Stock 
Exchange. He and his wife, the former Margaret 
Lambert, together with their nine cliildren, reside 
in Jackson Heights, N.Y. 
.\ special word of thanks to BUD MULVEY for his work on this affair, as well as for his accom­plishments as last year's President. 
Two Spring Smokers were held, one on May 13 at the Garden City Hotel, and one on May 14 at 7» the Wesicliesler Countrj* Club. JOE KUHARICIiE*' Was the principal speaker on both occasions. 
Other coming events include a pool party on Long Island and a Golf Outing in Westchester. —WILLIAM V. CUDDY, Sec>-. 
North Carolina 
On April 4 the Notre Dame Club of North Caro­lina had its first full-fledged event since reorgani­zation when REV. THOM.AS J. BRENN.\N, C.S.C., flciv down to Greensboro, N. C , April 4 for Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. A group consisting main­ly of the Board of Directors met Father Brennan at the airport and met in the afternoon at the home of E.A. "BUZZ" H.VSSETT, where Fathe^ Brennan was elected honorary' chaplain of tlie Club? Dinner was at the Plantation Supper Club, arranged by Vice-President JOE SHE.\. President JOHN O'­CONNELL also took part in the program. Father Tom said Sunday Mass at Our Lady of Grace Church, celebrated a Children's Mass on Monday and also talked to students at Notre Dame High Scliool before departing for a meeting in Virginia. 
Norfh Florida 
President FRED BAUMER and other officers wel­comed Alurani Secretary JIM ARMSTRONG for 
U.N.D. Xiglit at the /\ir Station in Jacksonville^­Fla., on April 23. « ) 
Oklahoma City 
The X'otre Dame Club of Oklalioma City staged its annual Universal Notre Dame Night banquet on April 1, 1959, at the Oklalioma City Golf and Country' Club. It was attended by approximately 160 alumni and friends. In attendance was His Ex­cellency, the Most Reverend Victor J. Reed, Bishop of Oklalioma City and Tulsa. WALTER DUNCAN was the Master of Ceremonies, and BUCKY O'­CONNOR did a magnificent job of being the Ban­quet Chairman. Our special guest, Mr. JOE KU­HARICH, made the principal address which was enjoyed and appreciated by all in attendance. ^ ) 
Tlie *'Man of the Year" a\\*ard was given to Mr. 

F. C. LOVE of Kerr-McGce Oil Co. Mr. Love, un­fortimately, u*as in .Australia at the time, and the plaque was accepted by Mrs. Love, on his behalf, after a splendid presentation by Monsignor ' Mur­taugli, St. Francis Church, Oklahoma City. Mr. 
Love ^vas given this award for his vcr)* outstand­A[ng scmccs to the Church and to civil affairs in ^'bklahonia. 
.•\5 is our custom here in Oklahoma City, a se­lection was made for the most outstanding Catholic boy in the Catholic schools of Oklahoma, and it was awarded to Richard L. Schiltz of St. Mar>''s School in I'onca City. Richard possesses inar\-clous all-around outstanding characteristics of which all Xotrc Dame men like to be proud. 
The publicity for this occasion was exceedingly well handled by Mrs. GloHa Bremkamp. The fol­lowing TV and Radio stations were on hand with pen and camera for this fine event: The .Associated Press, the United Press, WKY-TV, KWTV, KOCO­TV, KTOK Radio, KOMA, Oklahoman and Times, 
-/Hie Southwest Courier, and the Advertiser. Tlierc 
Ci^'as a general release press conference at 2:30' in the afternoon preceding the banquet, held in Mr. Walter Duncan's office, in which Mr. Kuharich was intcr\'iewed for television and the newspapers by many of the above mentioned. 
All members of the Notre Dame Club of Okla­homa City arc to be especially commended for the excellent work performed in making this the most outstanding Universal Notre Dame Night ever at­tained in the Oklahoma City area. 
—CHARLES L. AfONNOT, JR., *34, Prcs. 

Orange County 
^\ A graduate N. D. law>'er now guides the young 
^^u t progressive Orange County Club. DICK MUR­PHY, '53, took the gavel from outgoing prcxy BILL VANGEN, '49, at the 2nd annual U.N.D. Night festivities at the Disneyland Hotel in Anaheim, CaliL, April 13. 
Others installed on U.N.D. Night were: R.\LPII : DIXON, '51, as a Veep, replacing JACK MAHON, *42, WALLY /VNDREWS, *46, will take over the i money matters from JOHN GIw\AB, '47, and DICK COURY, '51, highly successful football and base-I ball coach of Mater Dei High School, will tr>' to sandwich in time to write this column for B.\DEN 
„ POWELL, '32. ', "Either the Disneyland Hotel expands its spacious 
I dining rooms or we should plan on moving next 
?/5|^car to larger quarters!" So KEENE FITZP.A­
ji'^RICK, '13, u-as heard to say. 
J More than doubling last years attendance, alum­ni associate members and friends were hard pressed to find scats due to the overflow crowd. Arrange­ments had been made for "slightly more than 100" according to DICK MURPHY, '53, a real 4-star general chairman who was perspiring profusely when the I25lh cash customer u-alked in a good half hour before BILL VANGEN, '49, president, asked the crowd to be seated. 
Murphy, young and energetic, dcser\'es *'thc Lae­tarc Medal with Oak Leaf Clusters" for his ex­ceptional work. He left little doubt in the minds of those present that he would do another great job as Club President for 1950-60. But while a young 
iC^an led them it was the "old timers" who drew ^^h e crowd and stole the show. 
MAURICE "CLIPPER" SMITH, '22, Rock's ori­ginal watch charm guard who opened the holes for the immortal GEORGE GIPP, far surpassed press notices as a "brilliant after dinner speaker" and sold the crowd on N. D. 
Southern Californians refer to LEO WARD, '22, as "Mr. Notre Dame" and as our emcee he left no doubt about it. Leo came down from Los An­geles to meet old and new friends and, we think, get away from the smog for a few hours. 
LOU RYMCUS, '43, line coach of the profes­sional L. .-V Rams also had a few noteworthy com­ments to make. It was strictly a. typical N. D. 
^football gathering and immensely enjoyed by all. 
A special highlight of the affair was a telephone conversation between BILL VANGEN and FxVTHER HESBURGH, C.S.C., speaking from his office on the campus. Father Ilcsburgb won many nctv friends for himself and the University with his timely comments on activities at school. Some day we hope Father or one of his official representa­tives can join us for one of our big functions. 
Local highlight of the night was awarding our first annual *'Man of the Year" award to a hum­ble but vcr>* dcser\'ing young man named DICK COURY, '51, highly successful coach of Mater Dei High School in Santa Ana. Dick and his football and baseball teams have won so many parochial 
^^itlcs In the past three years the other schools in ^She league arc probably praying for the day for Mater Dei to become strictly a girls' school. 
Father Michael Hanlon, principal of ^fater Del. in ginng the award, summed up the feelings of all when he said: "If Dick should quit coaching to­
morrow we would do everything possible to keep 
him on at Mater Dei because of the powerful in­
fluence he has on the student body." 
Club Chaplain FATHER ROBERT ROSS, C.S.C., of Blessed Sacrament Parish, Westminster, opened and closed the dinner with his blessing. 
Dancing followed until the wee hours to the en­

chanting music of the Dick Carey Trio. 
Amon^ those on hand we chatted with ALEX SHELLOGG, Dr. LEO TURGEON, LEO WARD, LOU RYMKUS. BILL HOUSTON, TONY SCHAF­FER, all good paying members of the Los Angeles Club. BOB .\L\TTOCK, soon to return to bis coaching job In Rcglna, Sask., Canada, and JIM MARTIN, more than upheld their own as **mem­bcrs of the team" but we can't understand why the "Clipper" admitted he was glad that he u-asn't playing against young fellows like Martin, WALLY FR/\MPTON (another import from L.A.) and Rv-mkus. After .ill Clipper weighed in at "about 160, wringing wet and burdened with medals and Rock's foot on the scale" in those other daj-s. 
.-Ml in all it was a tremendous affair. One that 

will live long in the memory of all in Orange 
County. 
Okay Mr. Cour>-, .Man of the Year for 1959, this is your baby now! —BADEN POWELL, '32, Rc*Jring Scc>-. 
Oregon 
sixty-six alumni, wives, parents, and friends met at the Multnomali Hotel, Portland, to celebrate Universal Notre Dame Night in Oregon. Long-dis­tance attendance honors went to R.-\Y MARTIN and wife from Roscburg. Ray has headed the Knights of Columbus' participation In the National Organization for Decent Literature. Making their first Universal Night appearance since coining to Oregon were FR^VNK J. TREIWEILER, '32, and wife. JOHN T. MYSER, '58, and wife, and MIKE DILLEY, '47. Frank is a berrv' farmer "down the Willamette Valley." John Is sales rep for Minnesota Mining's Scotch Tape division. Mike Is with a lead­ing local grocery and \-ariety chain. We hope they all will continue to be active in Oregon N.D, af­fairs. 
REV. JOHN T. BIGER, C.S.C., all dressed up in Chaplain's uniform, led us in grace at meals. President CHARLIE SL.\TT, '32, told us of his three visits to the campus during his first year in office. We "furriners," so far from N. D., like to hear first-hand accounts of present-day conditions and attitudes there. One reason, he said, for nom­ination of a majority of the officers and board of the Club from among young alumni is to keep strong the ties with Notre Dame. Elected to office were the following: Vicc-Pres., JUSTIN L. MOR­AN, '54; Treas., PAUL NEU^M/VN, '55; Secy., TOM MAGEE, '32. Named to Board of Directors were: J.VMES C.\RR MOR.\N, '56; VICTOR T. NE.AL, '48, and JOHN J. SACO.MANO, '52. All have 
been active in the events scheduled by Pres. Slatt and the Club expects a good year under their lead­ership-
Overheard among the highballs: TOM TRIXLER, '47, and family will soon be leaving us as Tom is moving his brokerage business headquarters to San Francisco. His brother, PETE TRIXLER, '48, will be returning from Georgia to take over the branch here. Oregon's loss is Cal's gain — best of luck, Tom! "JUDD" MORAN has been named Seo'.-Trcas. of the Oregon unit of the National Assn. of Oil Jobbers. He and brother JI.M MORAN are breaking into the family fuel oil business. OTIS JORD.-VN, '51, recently landed several sizeable road-building contracts for hb Pacific Concrete Co- JIM MALETIS, '50, (viWdly remembered by Oliver Ho­tel management) serves as legal advisor to Otis. Jim and his pretty wife are expecting their second child. Other recent family additions: on March 25, Angela, number five for -MIKE CARVER, '43; on Feb. 7. Louis Hunt Moran II to JUDD MOR.\N and wife Carol. Judge FRANK LONERGAN, '« , is recovering nicely from the serious auto injuries received last month- He will welcome visitors at Providence Hospital. Postmaster ALBERT M. "Duke" HODLER, '23, his traveling companion, was less scrlouslv hurt. In Oreijon — roses to the ladies: Mrs. PETER C. MURPHY, SR., Mrs. LOUIS H. MOR-AN, and Mrs- ARTHUR L. STE­VENS for. their wonderful work on the Club's Christmas Dance. Passing thought: How about a Notre Dame Day at our Oregon Centennial, gang? 
—TO.M MAGEE, *32, Secy. 

Palm Beach County 
Back in March application ^vas made to the Alumni Office for the reorganization of a Notre Dame Club in Palm Beach, Fla.. after a meeting of local alumni aKembled by REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL and JIM FRICK of the Xotrc Dame Foundation. The trustees appointed to found the Club arc WILLIAM B. MADDEN, '42; JOHN 
P. HOSINSKI- '33. and TIMOTHY D. 0'HAR,\, 'M. 
Peoria 
The Notre Dame Club of Peoria has had a full schedule of events since the last report. In No­vember a Football Smoker was held at Holy Family Auditorium and was attended by 150 mem­bers and guests. The *'HighlIghts of 1957" were shown and narrated by COR^VIN CL.\TT, '47, for­mer Notre Dame -All-.-Vmcrlcan. .A second film titled **Rockne of Notre Dame" was also shown. Food and refreshments were served follo'wing the movies. 
On December 21 the annual Christmas Dance was held and was attended by 80 members and their wives and dates. 
INDIANAPOLIS—Some of the hcadlincrs of the Indianapolis Club's U^J) . Night were Tom Bulger, *37, chairman and retiring vice president; Joe Kuharich, '38, Notre Dame head football coach and guest speaker of the evening; Leo Bamhorst, '49, outgoing president, and Tom Carney, *37, toastmaster. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 23 
A SI Patiick's Day Dance u-as held on March 
17 at the Countrv- Club of Peoria. The affair «"as 
attended by 100 members, guests, and their wives 
and dates. A cocktail hour preceded the dance. 
TTic success of this affair assured a permanent 
spot on the Peoria Club calendar for this event. 
On .April 6 Universal Xotrc Dame Night was 
observed by the Peoria Alumni at Vonachcn's 
Junclion. BILL "RED" GLE.-\SO.N% feature sports 
writer for the Chicago .American, was the principal 
speaker and entertained the audience of 90 persons 
with his interpretation oE the "Brcnnan sto^^•" and 
prospects for the coming year. Mr. Gleason's talk 
was preceded by a cocktail hour and dinner. 
TIic success of this year's club activities de­
finitely re-establishes the Xotrc Dame Club of 
Peoria as one of the area's leading groups ol this 
kind. Tlic greater share of the credit for the 
success and revi%*al of the club this past year is 
due to the continued efforts of our president. 
WILIAM CLfVRK, '47, who spearheaded most of 
the functions personally. 
The Club met in May at Pabst Brcwcr>-'s "33" 
Room to elect the officers for the coming year, 
—JOHN R. POWERS, JR., '53, Secj*. 
Philadelphia 

.April was a busy month in Philadelphia. On Apirl 8, Lactarc Sunday, the Philadelphia Club made its traditional presentation of vestments to a local pastor, this time to Father ^fcHalc of St. Elizabeth's Parish. Tlic ^falvern Retreat took place on April 10, and on .\pril 14 was celebrated the SGth annual edition of Philadelphia's own Universal Noire Dame Night. 
JOHN FRANCIS CARDINAL 0'HAR.\, C.S.C., .Archbishop of Philadelphia, former president of the University, was honored as "Notre Dame Man of the Year" at a U.N.D. Night dinner-dance at the BcIlc\Tie-St rat ford, ''because of his accom­plishments and for making Noire Dame known throughout America." 
"I'm a little too old to be out during the day, and a, little too ynung to be out late at night." Tlius ihc Cardinal apologized for his early departure witii a blessing before the cercmonv was completed. 
F.ATHER HESBURGH, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, was with the Cardinal during a stand­ing ovation from the 400 guests at the affair. Father Hcsburgh gave the prindpal address in which he Hslcd the v^alues a Noire Dame man should pursue. The black-tie afTair began with cocktails and was followed by dancing. 
JOHN F. MOORHE.\D wks inducted as presi­dent for 1959. succeeding WALTER J. GROT­HAUS, JR. Other new officers are WILLLAM A. AVHITESIDE. vice president; BARTON B. JOHN­SON, treasurer, and GEORGE V. MITCHELL, JR., secretary". 
.V.MBROSE' F. "BUD" DUDLEY was toast­master. JAMES B. LEYDON, outgoing secretary, did a magnificent job as general cliairman, aided by commiuee chairmen JOHN H. NEESON, JR.; JOHN P. DEMPSEY, L. ELLENTERI, B.ARTON JOHNSON, WILLIAM A. WHITESIDE, CLIF­FORD E- PRODEHL, GER.\LD A. VOIT, GEORGE MITCHELL and AMLLIAM G. BURNS. Special thanks also were 'due to ^frs. Neeson and the Women's Committee. The event was matched by superb decorations, food, etc., and by beauti­fully printed announcements and souvenir programs. 
On May 22 a luncheon was held at the Barclay honoring CHARLIE DOUGHERT\' on his ap­pointment as Secretary of Revenue for the State of Pennsylvania by Governor Lawrence. 
Phoenix 

Atlilctic Dircclor EDWARD W. KRAUSE ii-as a guest of the Xotrc Dame Club of PhocnLx April 8 for Universal Xotrc Dame Xiglit. The dinner was held in the Corral Room of the Hotel Wcstu-ard Ho and was arranged fav ROBERT D. KENDALL, DR. DALE STAXXARD and ALBERT A. PICKS, under the direction of Club President JOHN R. DOL,\X. 
Pittsburgh 

The thirty-sixth Annual Unix'ersal Notre Dame Night was commemorated April 7 at the Pitts­burgh Athletic Association. The Most Reverend John J. WVight, D.D., the Bishop of Pittsburgh, was the guest of honor and the main speaker. JAMES BEYMER was the chairman for the dinner 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June, 1959 
ELi PASO—Notre Dame men, St, Mary's alumnae and friends who attended the Universal Notre Dame celebration of the El Paso Club, in the Hilton Hotel April 7, surround guest Ed Krause, athletic director at Notre Dame. j . 
and DR. LEO D. O'DONNELL was the toast­
master. 
Prior to commencing his address. His Excellency appointed FATHER THONLAS KIRBY, Class of 1952, as Cliaplain for the Club. His Excellency also explained that he was given an Honorar>' Degree from the University in June of 1955 w-hcn he gave a commencement address. 
Bishop Wright's talk on ihe rights, privileges, 

and duties of the Catholic Alumni was very well 
received by the 150 members and guests in at­
tendance. 
Tills year's dinner was the most successful in 

recent years. 
Mr. John Deedy, the recently appointed Editor of the Pittsburgh Catholic and Reverend Daniel Brcnnan, the Executive Editor, were also guests of honor at the Universal Notre Dame Night affair. 
—DONALD W. BEBENEK, Scc>-. 

Rhode Island and 
S. E. Massachusetts 
The Noire Dame Club of Rliodc Island and Soulheaslem Massacliiisctis held its observance of Universal Noire Dame Night on Wednesday, April 8, at the I. J. Bouffard Council, Knights of Co­lumbus Home In North Providence. The event was a dinner dance attended bv over 100 persons. Guest speakers were REV. CHESTER A. SOLETA, C.S.C., Xlce-Prcsidcnt in charge of Academic affairs, and ADAM WALSH, Captain of Notre Dame's 1924 Four Horsemen football team. Chair­man of ilic c\cnt was DR. LEO COLEMj\N, who was assisted bv JA.MES McMULLEN, ANDREW AfcMAHON, PHILIP TOOLE, EDWARD DEN­NING, PAUL HOEFFLER, JOHN McL.\UGH­LIN and JOSEPH McDONALD, JR. Others who spoke at the affair were Rhode Island's Lieutenant Governor, John A. Noite, Jr. and Cornelius C. Moore, a leading Rhode Island attorney. 
Tlie Club's annual >fan of the Year Award was presented to club member JAMES E. MURPHY, M9, by Past President PAUL HOEFFLER. Jim, an attorney by profession. Is a past president of the Club, having served two terms, and presently is a member of the Board of Directors. He is mar­ried to the former Corlnnc O'Brien and by re­union time this year will be the father of three cliildrcn. Over the years, he has been an active supporter of all club functions. In January of 1958 he brought credit to his University and him­self when, as a delegate to a Rhode Island Con­vention, he brought to the attention of the Con­vention a flaw in the wording of a proposed con­stitutional amendment which apparently had been missed by the other 199 delegates. 
Xev*' dub officers, elected at a previous meeting and installed at the dinner, were JAMES McAfUL-LEN, '36, president; JOHN P. MAGUIRE, *42, 
vice-president; PHILIP B. TOOLE, '52, treasurer, t and EDWARD P. DEN.NING, '50, sccrelarv*. —EDWARD P. DENNING, Ssecy. \-\ 
Rochester t 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, executive secretary £ of the Alumni .-Vssoclation, was a guest speaker at |' the Rocliester Club's Universal Notre Dame Night w; dinner-dance .April 4 ai the Oak Hill Country- Club, fv^ 
Installed as president to succeed JOHN R. KLE£ ^ w^s JOHN F. BURKE of Brighton. CHARLES J. ^^ O'BRIEN was honored as Rochester's Notre Dame ^fan of the Year. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD T. SULLIVAN and Mr. and Mr3. ROBERT C. \ ODENBx\CH were co-chairmen ol ihc event. ) 
i Saginaw Valley | 
Tlic Notre Dame Club of the Saginaiv Valley cele-i bralcd Universal Notre Dame Night with a purely I local gct-iogether, one feature of which was a show­ing of the Notre Dame Football Highlights. \ 
\ 

St. Joseph Valley ' 
Since the last issue and the Monogram Banquet the St. Joe Valley Chib has celebrated three tra­ditional events. First, the annual Rockne Com­munion Breakfast was held on campus April 5. Immediately following the Rockne Memorial Mass held at Sacred Heart Church members met at the Morris Inn for breakfast. Sportscastcr VINCE DOYLE v\'as master of ceremonies and introduced President JOHN CVCKLEY for a short business meeting, during which BURNIE BAUER, JOE HANNAN, DON FISHER and DICK RILEY were nominated for the board of directors and CHARLIE CALL.\H.\N vras named to fill an un ^ expired term. JOE KUHARICH and BILL CERNEY were the programmed speakers, de­scribing the effects of KNUTE ROCKNE'S example on their lives and coaching careers. The members prayed for DICK MICELI, recently deceased sports writer for the South Bend Tribune, and discussed returning the Rockne Mass to its traditional site In the Dillon Hall Chapel, then adjourned to Highland cemetarv- to pay respects at the graves of departed coaches KNUTE ROCKNE, JOHN NICHOLSON and GEORGE KEOG^VN. 
Secondly, Universal Notre Dame Night vv-as cele­brated in the St. Joseph Valley on April 21. Tlie University's executive vice president REV. ED­MUND P, JOYCE, aS.C , was the principal ^i speaker, and FRANK E. SULLIVAN, '49, wal l awarded a scroll as Notre Dame Man of the Year, "ouutanding Notre Dame alumnus In the community." Making the award vi'as the chairman of the selection committee, HERBERT E. JONES, iCotrc Dame's athletic business manager. A life member of the insurance honor group, the Million 
f^pollar Round Tabic, Frank Sulliran \*-as named last year as the Outstanding Young Man by the South Bend Jaycces. He was general chairman of ths 1958 United Fund Torch Drive and has par­ticipated in many other community projects, the hospital drive, Moreau Seminary drive, etc. 
JOHX Cf\CKLEy» outgoing president, was toast­master and ofliciated in the installation of I059-60 officers and introducing them to the 125 members and wives at the meeting. Tlie officers include: 
R. A. GOEPFRICH, president; E. J. MEERAX, JR., vice-president: FRANK .\. DEITLE, secretary, and JOSEPH E. HICKEY, treasurer; CL.\REXCE 

J. (JAKE) KLEIN, N.D. baseball coach, honorary president, and REV. JOHN REEDY, C.S.C., editor *jgjt)f AVE MARIA magazine, chaplain. A part of 
*lh c program was a report by trust officer ALBERT W*. McGANX on the state of the Valley Club's leading scholarship trust fund. 
The third project of the Club, the annual spring Varsity-Old Timers game for the benefit of the scliolarship fund, was an exciting preview of the 1959 football season, with JOE KUCHARICH's varsity piling up a two-touchdown lead over the alumni players. 
Rome 
Tlie chief occasion to report is the Second .Annual St. Patrick's Day Party. "Bright and 

^Early " on the "Night itself" wc had the Scogllo Restaurant "painted green' with the usually red-clad musicians in Kelly green. Tliis year wc added a harpist to onr soloists, basso TON( O'LE-ARY and tenor, SGT. CHARLES BYRNE, and enjoyed a rare treat of having Father Celestinc. S.A. of the Graymoor Friars on the Hudson, perform Irish jigs on his little squeezebox until half tlie two hundred guests were "np .\ND AT IT." The menu as usual was green: Fighting Irish Emerald Green Punch. Gaelic Green Lasagna, Irish Mulligan (Italian G>'psy Style)^ Kelly Green Salad, Dublin Ice Cream with Green Whipped Cream. The adventure of the evening was the M.C. He was no less than Dr. Wilmot. of the British Embassy* in Rome! Nothing went wrong! I 
W The N.D. Club provided a trophy for second place at tlie First Annual Notre Dame Tntcrnational School Inntational Basketball Tournament in which six schools (American) from Italy and Turkey took part: and Notre Datne, Rome won the N.D. Club trophy! 
Our annual guests arrived at Easter again: Tlie Notre Dame and St. Mar>''s Juniors who arc study­ing in Vienna. Joining with other NDer visitors and "natives" at the Scoglio, we all made merry. 
Other ND guests currentiv and recently: Dr. and Mrs. O. a STEGMEIER, MO, here to celebrate anniversary; CHARLES F. SPICKA, 'M, of Day­ton, O., with USAF in Eurcu.x, France; GERALD 

B. GOET2.\LVNN, '58, Engr. of St. Louis, Mo.; ^-ARRY PELTON, '58, engr.; TOM SWEDORFF, ^46 , Short Hills, N. J.; AL BAILEY, '51, of Patcrson, N. J., teaching school for USAF in England; TIERNRY O'ROURKE, '30, and wife. XD supporters rcporttd in on: BERX.\RD COWLING, '43, Mayor of St. Matthew's, Ky., and 
his brother Joe, circa, '52 by their sister Martha; PROF. CECIL BIRDER by his daughter, Mrs. 
Col. Theodore Michel, St. Manx's, *43. Finally arrived Mr. and Mrs. KAKh VOGELHEIM, '33, and son Karl of Rogers City, Mich.; Bernard F. Smith reported in on his brother ART J. SMITH. JR., M.A. in Physics, Jan. '59; Paul J. Mahalski for Dick Eisgruber a Junior in Business Admin, at N.D. 
Local gains and losses: Our ace cliaplain, FATHER EDWARD L. HESTON, C.S.C., is back after surgery- in the U.S.; CHRIS COCHR^VNE, *46, has come to live in Rome for a tour of duty. He helps to compensate for the losses of JOHN* KRUGER, who is now with Stars and Stripes in Darmstadt, Germany, and for QAPT. FRz\NCIS BON, USN, who has been transferred from X'aplcs to San Bruno, California. Likewise wc have lost our unique "lady" member, MOTHER M. ALOYSI, S.N.D. who has returned to the U^ S. 
.Ml comers to Rome, or your friends, remember our address: Notre Danic International Scliool, Via. Aurelia 796. telephone 621500 or our rendez­vous, Scoglio Di Frisio Restaurant, \na Merulana 256, telephone 487619. Evcr\one is welcome! 
—VI.XCE MC.VLOON, *34, Sec>-. 
St. Louis 
TIic St. Louts Club held its obser\'ancc of the 36th anntuU Universal Notre Dame Night on Mon­day, .April 20. TIic occasion was marked with a cocktail party and dinner at the Tiara Room of tlic Park Plaza Hotel. Some 200 alumni and friends of the University attended. 
Our guest speaker for the night was F.VTHER FRvVNK GARTL.\ND, C.S.C., editor of THE a\THOLIC BOY. His talk was both entertaining and enlightening. 
In keeping with tradition wc also took the occa­sion of U.N.D. Night to present our Notre Dame Man of the Year x\\vard. This vear's recipient was CHARLES L. FARRIS ('33), executive director of the St. Louis Land Clearance and Housing Author­ity. The presentation was made by A. J. RAVA­RINO ('35), who received the award in 1957. In his introductory remarks Ravarino pointed out that Farris has done more In his five years as director of the St. Louis authority to rejuvenate the city than any one individual has done since the turn of the ccnlur\-. 
New officers for the 1959-60 Club year were an­nounced to the members at the close of the U.N.D. Night obser\'ance. Tliev are: 
President, J. DO.VALD RATCHFORD, '50; Sec­rctan.-Treasurcr, ROBERT F. CHICKEY, '54; \'icc President, Activities, JAMES A. PUDLOWSKl, 'M; \'ice President, Committees, JOHN M. KANE, '52, and Vice President, Relations, HERMAN L. KRIEGSHAUSER, '54. 
THOM.VS J. .\rcGUIRE ('49), retiring president, will be Chairman of the Board. 
The new members of the Board of Directors arc: DR. RICHARD F. HUCK ('47), ROBERT F. TORRENCE ('47), JOHN M. KANE ('52), and JAMES A. PUDLOWSKl ('54). Appointed to fill an une.\pired term on the board was HERXLAN L. KRIEGSHAUSER ('54). 
The next activities on our calendar of events are the annual Club Golf Tournament in June and the Family Picnic in July. Tlie Golf Tourney- will be handled by WARD DRISCOLL ('49) and the Picnic by HER.M KRIEGSHAUSER ('M). 
DON IL\TCHFORD, Pres. 
San Antonio 
On March 20 the San Antonio Club held its-annual buylness meeting in the Milam Building. The meeting featured a report by President JOHN O'CONNELL and the election of officers for the coming years. 
The first week end of April was a busy time for Notre Dame men in San Antonio. On April 4 the "Fifing Irish" of the NJ>. Concert Band, under the direction of ROBERT F. O'BRIEN, presented a joint concert with tlic Incarnate ^Vo^d College Chorale in the Incarnate Word auditorium. Mayer Kuykendall proclaimed Notre Dame Day, and Presi­dent O'ConnclI presented Director O'Brien with a 10-gallon hat as a souvenir of the visit. A hos­pitality and housing committee was composed of Club members and wives, who escorted the band on a tour of the mission, etc., and treated them to a Mc.\ican dinner. The band also entertained at Lackland Air Force Base and joined Incarnate Word students for a dance after the evening concert. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated April 6 with a dinner at the Mcnger Hotel. EDW.ARD KRr\USE, director of athletics at Notre Dame, was the principal speaker, and WILLIAM F. MARKEY was installed as president to succeed JOHX O'CONXELL. 
San Diego 
The annual election meeting of the Sun Diego Club w-as held at the Town and Country* Club on February 26. RICHARD DERENTRAL was elected to succeed FR.\NCIS J. DAVIS as president. The new officers are RICHARD DEREN*TH:\L, '51, president; RICH.ARD MARTIN, '45, ^^ce president; ^VNTHOX-Y .M. .MITCHELL, '36, secretary; THO.MAS Lx\UER.MAN, '48, treasurer; GENERAL FRANCIS P. MULOAHY, '14, board member at large, and RT. REV. MSGR. FR.\NCIS C. OTT, '18, cliapbin. 
The Notre Dame Club of San Diego held a Uni­versal Notre Dame Night dinner and entertainment April 6 in the \Vard Room of the U. S. Cirant Hotel. RICHARD DERENTHAL presided. 
Hou-ard Dattan, dean of the School of Law at San Diego University, ^v-as the guest speaker. His talk on the aims of education befitted the academic theme of the evening. The program also Included 5ho\ving of films on Lobund and Xotre Dame's Colleges of Science, Commerce, Law, .Arts and Let­ters, and Engineering. 
Past President FRANCIS D.AVIS was awarded a Man-of-thc-Year scroll. Forty-five members and wives enjoyed the dinner party. 
—ANTHONY M. MITCHELL, Secy. 
Schenectady 
REV. THOMAS J. O'DON^NELL, assodate di­rector, and JOHN ^facCAULEY, area director of the Notre Dame Foundation, were special guests at the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner of the Notre Dame Club of Schenectady, N. Y., April 16, at which President LEON ST. PIERRE presided. 
Scranton 
Northeastern Pennsylvania's alumnt heard FATHER THOMAS O'DONNELL of the Notre Dame Foundation at Universal Xotre Dame cere­monies in Scranton on April 11. 

FLINT—^Members of the Notre Dame Club of Flint gathereil for the annual business meeting in February. Retiring President James J. Sherry, Jr., is seated center. To his right are Arthur T. Paradis, newly elected president, Victor E. George, first vice president, and (behind George) Harold R. Stine, secretary-treasurer. Robert J. MacDohald, second vice president, was not present for the picture, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 25 

Southeastern Wisconsin 
Teclinical developments arc demanding better and better teaching statTs in the University, MARIO 
J. GOGLLA, dean of Notre Damc*s College of Engineering, lold Racine-Kenosha area alumni on March 30, The occasion was the Universal Notre Dame Night meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Southeastern Wisconsin, at whicli Dean Goglia and ALLAN J. POWERS of the Notre Dame Founda­tion were guests. EDWIN E. RAYMOND, JR., the outgoing president, u'as master of ceremonies. JOHN V. WHxXLEY was Installed as president and named chairman of a future Club event for the benefit of the building fund at Racine's Dominican College. 
Spokane 
Members of the Notre Dame Club of Spokane, 

their wives and friends, gathered in the Desert Hotel 
on Tuesday evening, .April 7, to observe Universal 
Notre Dame Night. The green decor of the Nile 
Room was a fitting background for the Notre Dame 
banner and colors with which the walls and tables 
were adorned. Despite an extensive '"flu" ;ick list 
the attendance was almost record breaking. 
TIic speaker of the evening was Rev. James M. 

RIbble, Diocesan Director of Vocations, who fol­
lowed in his speech the theme of this year's pro­
grams, '"Tomorrow's Student." Father RIbble, an 
unusually fme speaker, held the rapt attention of 
all with his ver>' interesting and perceptive Inter­
pretation of the theme and Its application to the 
duties, responsibilities and sacrifices to be expected 
of Notre Dame graduates. 
MONK .\LBO, '35, Club president, was an ex­

cellent master of ceremonies, adding greatly to the 
cnjojTncnt of the afTair with his witty remarks and 
introductions. TOM L.\LLY, 'OS, the Club's grand 
olc timer, gteen tie and all, delighted the gathering 
with his anecdotes of the Notre Dame of long ago. 
The Club presented Father RIbble with a check 

for use In connection with his work at Bishop White 
Preparaton' Seminarv. One of the seminarians, 
Robert Murphy, son' of DON V. MURPHY, '37, 
was present as a special guest of the Club. 
Tlie Club officers made up the committee ar­

ranging for the afTair. The Club committee clialr­
mcn were announced: Retreats and Religious Ac­
tivities, FRANK HAGENBARTH, '27; Scholarships, 
DR. ROBERT M.AHER, '35; and Summer Activities, 
FRANK HERRON, '35. 
In attendance at the dinner, with their wives, 

were: MONK ALBO, '35, president; MARK MAR­
QUELING, '50, vice president; TOM L/VLLY, '06; 
DR. BOB .MAHER, '35; DR. DENNIS C. HIG­
GINS, '49; FR.\.VCIS FL.\NNERY, '31; FR^VNK 
H.\GE.VBARTH, '27; BOB MERZ, '47; BOB 
ROTCHFORD, '49: JOE ROW.AN, '50; JIM 
LYNCH, '40; DON MURPHY, '37; CHARLES A. 
MYERS (father of GARY MYERS, '59); Robert 
Jones (Gonzaga); Lou Barblcrl (Gonzaga); and Lou 
Batchelor (Gonzaga). 
—JOSEPH WALSH, Seo'. 

Syracuse 
(See Central N. Y.) 
Terre Haute 
JOHN BRODERICK, assisl.nnl to Dean O'Mcara of the Notre Dame Law School, was a guest speaker at the Universal Noire Dame Night dinner of the Tcrre Haule Club on April G. JOHN F. P. MURPHY, '44, was honored as the Terre Haute, Ind., area's Notre Dame Man of the Year. 
Toledo 
The N.D. Club of Toledo held the annual Com­

munion Breakfast on April 5. ^lass was at St. 
Francis de Sales Churcli at 9:30 a.m., and the 
Breakfast was at the Toledo Club about one-half 
hour after the end of the Mass. 
FATHER THOMAS O'DONNELL, C.S.C., of the 

Notre Dame Foundation, was the guest speaker. 
Also the new officers for the coming year of the 
N.D. Club of Toledo were Introduced at the Break­fast. JOE KALB.VS, '5G, was the General Chair­man for this afTair. 
The new directors of tlic N.D. Club of Toledo, who were elected by the membership In a recent mail ballot for a term of three years, arc JOHN HURLEY, '25, and GEORGE KORHUMEL, '49. Tiic>' replace URBAN GRADEL and DICK KOPF, *49, whose terms expired this year. 
Plans were made for Universal Notre Dame Night 

26 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June^ 1959 
whicli was held during the month of May. Details next issue. JI.M MALONE, '44, was the General Chairman for this function. 
—.\LARSHALL R. DESMOND, '54, Scc>-. 

Tri-Cities 
REV, RICHARD J. GRI.MM, C.S.C., religious superior at the University*, was the guest speaker at the Tri-CIties Club's Universal Notre Dame Night celebration April 5 In Davenport, Iowa. 
Tulsa 
The Notre Dame Club of Tulsa has been ver\­

busy lately. 
On Sunday, March 8, the Club held Its annual 

retreat at the Benedictine Heights College. Father 
John Sullivan of Guthrie, Oklahoma, was our re­
treatmaster and gave us a very* fine and inspiring 
retreat. 
The following Tuesday the Club held a luncheon 

at the Mayo Hotel honoring Mr. ED ".MOOSE" 
KRf\USE who was visiting in Tulsa. Moo^e gave 
us an informal but very* informative talk. The 
Club certainly enjoyed and appreciated '*Mfx>se's'' 
\islt. 
On Tuesday, March 31, the Club held Its Uni­

versal Notre Dame Banquet at the Tulsa Club. 
Tills Banquet Is traditionally our ladles' night ac­
tivity. Over 200 club members, wives and guests 
were present. Our group was honored by the 
presence of his Excelleno' Bishop Victor J. Reed, 
Bishop of the Oklahoma City-Tulsa Diocese. Of 
special Interest was the scheduling of Mr. JOE 
KUHARICH as our feature speaker. Evervonc 
was very pleased and ver>' much impressed with 
Joe's talk. He talked right from his heart and 
c\*eryonc felt a real Impact from his fine speech. 
His soft spoken and easy manner made his talk 
even more elTective. 
These three events have kept our Club veiy busv recentlv. —JACK .MOH.\TT, Sec>. 
Twin Cities 
^linncapoIis-St. Paul alumni obser\'i'd Uiiivcnial Xotrc Dame Night on April 13. Tlie gut;st speaker was DE,\X MARIO GOGLIA of llie Xolrc Dame College or Engineering, and ALWX J. POWERS of the Xolre Dame Foundation was also a guc&t of the Club. 
Virginia 
On April 6 the Notre Dame Club of Xlrglnia celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night in Rich­mond, Va., with REV. THOMAS J. BRE.\N.\N, C.S.C., Notre Dame's revered professor of philos-
KANSAS CITY —Mayor H. Roe Bartle presents Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., with several mementos of a recent visit to Kansas City, including a Key to the City, miniature Hereford steer, ten-gallon hat and handshalce. 
ophy, as guest speaker. Outgoing President CHARLES G. LaFRiVTTA was the surprise "re­cipient of a Man-of-tlic-Year scroll for his scrvici^ to Notre Dame men of the area. Installed as new* officers were: ANDREW E. O'KEEFE, president; LEO F. BURKE, vice president; EDWARD M. FARLEY, sccretar>-, and LOUIS J. -MATT, treasurer. 
Washington, D. C. 
The annual election of officers and directors for the Washington Club was held at a St. Patrick's Day meeting of the Club on March 17 at the Sheraton-Carlton Hotel. Elected were: JOSEPH 
L. FITZMAURICE, '36, president; CHARLES T. HELLMUTH, '50, vice-president: JOHN A. SAN­DERS, '49, secretarv-; JOSEPH P. MALONEY, '54, treasurer, and to the Board of Governors, ROBERT, ;V. SCHELLENBERG and 1958-59 president JOHN"M 
A. McGR/VTH. Universal Notre Dame Night was ob>cr\-ed in Washington on April 6 at the Willard Hotel. Repre­senting the University was REV. EDMUND P. 
JOYCE, C.S.C., executive vice president of Notre Dame. The principal speaker was Senator Eugene 
J. McCarthy of Minnesota, who spoke on the pro­vocative subject of a Catholic president. DR. MATT SULLIV.-\N was general chairman of the event. Other events were the Holy Cross Mission Club's S5th annual Benefit Bridge for the Foreign Mission Seminary, attended by many Notre Dame wives at the Shorehain on .April 15, and the first meeting of the 1959-CO season at the Slieratun-Carlton on May 15, at which H.\RRY J. KIRK was presentedj with a Man-of-the-Year scroti. 
West Virginia 
The Notre Dame Club of Charleston, West Vir­
ginia, observed Universal Notre Dame Night on 
Wednesday, .April 8, 1959, with a banquet at Hum­
phrey's Pine Room. President JOSEPH M. FAL­
LON served as toastiuastcr for the affair, while 
REV. EDMUND F. WEINHEI.MER was the main 
speaker. 
Elections were held, at which time the following 
were elected to office for 1959: JOHN F. KEM­
.\IERER, president; C. .M. REICH, vice president; 
and RUDOLPH L. DiTR.APANO, secrelar>-treas-^ 
urer. Past officers of the organization are JOSEPH^ 
M. FALLON, president, ROL.AND F. HART, vice president, and LOUIS R. TABIT, secretar>'-treasurer. 
It is with deep regret tliat I must report the death of one of our members, Mr. DAVID B. MONCRIFF, '41, of Cliarleston, who expired on April 27. 
—LOUIS R. TABIT, Retiring Secy. 

Western Washington 
President TED CU.M.MINGS officiated at Univer­sal Notre Dame Niglit on May 25 at the Cascade Ploza Room of the Benjamin Franklin Hotel In Seattle. REV. HOWARD KENNA, C.S.C., presi­dent of Portland University, was the featured^ speaker. A new club dircclorx- has been prepared" by BEN LE.\OUE. 
Wichita 
RICH.ARD J. BOWES, area director of the Notre Dome Foundatiun, was the featured speaker at Uni­versal Notre Dame Night ceremonies of the Wichita Club on April 14. 
Youngstown 
Tlie Youngstown Notre Dame Club held a most successful Universal Notre Dame Night celebration. A banquet was held at the Youngstown Countr\-^ Club with FATHER TO.M O'DONNELL, C.S.C.,­as guest speaker. About 110 persons attended the dinner which also marked the 35th anniversary of the Youngstown Area Club. 
THOMAS KERRIGAN, president of the Youngs­town Club, presided, CHARLES B. CUSHWA, JR., director of the Notre Dame Foundation in the Youngstown area. Introduced Father O'Donnell. Attornej- PAUL GUARNIERI of Warren was toast­master. . Congratulations to IVAN R. WOLF, '29, and LOUIS C. COLLERAN, '45, on recent promotions! Lou Colleran is Vice President in Charge of Sales of Roll Formed Products Company and Ivan Wolf is General Superintendent of llie Youngstown Unit of A & P Stores. j 
TIic entire Club expresses Its deepest sympathv to JIM, '42, and MARTY BRUTZ, M9, on the loss of their mother. 
—BILL BORD, '54. Scc>-. 
Engagements 

Miss Joan Bcnzigcr and JOHN R. GAIXES, '51. Miss Slu-ila A. Smith and DR. J. ED\VARD KELLY, JR., '32. Miss Man- R. Hixon and BERNARD A. WOOD, 
• Miss Katiilii-n E. Hnsscy and PAUL J. a\RDI­XAL, JR., '33. .Miss -Man- Ellt-n Balfc and JOHN P. HOSINSKI, '55. Miss Sandra Webber and LT. PAUL R. .MUR­
PHY, '35. Miss Mary Orzi-cli and WILLIA.\I LiVSH, '36. Miss Catherine J. D'Amato and J.\.MES J. Mc­
CL,\Y, JR., '56. Miss Elizabetli A. Ivors and WILLIAM J. WEL­DON, '56. Miss Dorothv E. Fenelon and LT. PAUL C. FLATTERY, USMC, '37. Miss Joscpliinc Breinnicr and HUGH McQUEEN, '58. 9 -Miss Mrsinia Portinan and D.AVID L. McSHANE, '38. .Miss Maralinc A. Gallagher and DONALD li. REILLY, '38. Miss Barbara Cliuqnelte and DONALD .M. AL­BERS, '39. Miss Marguerite L. Crjescnk and MICHAEL EL KIEWEL, '59. 
Marriages 

Miss Jovcc A. Macliin and HAROLD R. SOLO­MON, '47. Kansas City, Mo., May 9. 1959. -Miss Corinnc L. Abbazia and GER.\RD J. KEK­
KER, '48. Darien. Conn., April 4, 1939. 
^ iliss Bettv E. Frankhouser and THO.MAS V. WEENEY, JR., '30. Weston, W. Va.. April 12, 1938. Miss Margaret H. Foran and DR. JOHN J. BOEH.M, '51. Frankfurt, Germanv. Jan. 10, 1939. Miss Angela .M. Casev and CHARLES R. .MAR­
SHALL, '51, Scranton, Pa., Feb. 7. 1939. 
Miss Margaret T. Pruner and J. GERi\RD BOEHLING, JR., '33, Johnstown, Pa.. April 4. 1959. 
-Miss Martha A. Parr and JOHN J. REDDE.N, '54, Notre Dame, Ind., April 6, 1939. Miss Elizabeth M. Murphy and EDWARD J. DE.MPSEY, '55. Rochester, .N.Y. .Miss Joan Lichtenberger and BERNARD G. LY­ONS, '58. Coral Gables, Fla., April 4, 1959. Miss Geraldine Cox and N1CH0U\S V. PIETRO­
• SAN-TE, '59, Ansonia, Conn.. March 30, 1939. ' Miss Arlene Morencc and LT. GEORGE B. POGUE, '59, South Bend, Ind., April 4, 1959. 
Miss .Mary K. Wetzel and PHILIP VELL.\, '59, Notre Dame, Ind., Jan. 31, 1939. 
Births 

Mr. and Mrs. JOHN C. SULLIVAN, '31, a daughter, Lisa, March 20, 1959. :. • .Mr. and Mrs. GERARD SARD, M8. ;j son, Feb. 15, 1959. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM VOLL, M8, a son, Feb. 4. 1959. P .Mr, and Mre. THADDEUS BUDYi\KIE\\'ICZ, 49, a son, March 11, 1959. .Mr. and Mrs. PATRICK J. COXKLIX, M9, a daughter, Maureen Kathennc, March 17, 1959. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS M. KUPFER, '49, a daughter, Nancy Sue, April 17, 1959. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT R. UHL, '49, a son, MicliacI John, April 2, 1959. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD FOLEY, '50, a daugh­ter, Theresa Susan, Jan. 20, 1959. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES F. SLATTERV, '50, a son, James Francis, Feb. 9, 1959. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES A. ROEMER, '51, a son, April 6, 1959. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD G. LANaVSTER, '52, 
a daughter, Marcli 17, 1959. ^ Mr. and Mrs. WILLIA.M BERRY, '53, a son, RVilliam Joseph, March 19, 1959. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. CONWAY, '53, a son, Thomas Edu-ard, Marcli 26, 1959. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. DILENSCHNEIDER, '53, a son, Joseph Justin, March 29, 1959. 
Mr. and Mrs. LEONARD LcROSA, '53, a son, Claude Cliarlcs. Feb. 27, 1959. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIA.M E. REIDY, '53, a daughter, Kathleen Marie, April. 5, 1959. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN D. WHEL^VN, '53, a son, Thomas Michael, March 6. 1959. .Mr. and Mrs. JOHN E. RONAN, '56, a son, Timothy Patrick, Feb. 20, 1959. .Mr. and Mrs, ROBERT T. GALLA, '57, a daugh­ter, Theresa Marie, Marcli 12, 1959. Mr. and Mrs. S.\.MUEL W. RI2ZO, '57, a son, Samuel Cosimo. April 9, 1959. Mr. and .Mrs. ROBERT C. WEINER, '57. a son, David Joseph, March 28, 1959. 
Deaths 
JAMES B. QUINN, '97, died March 31, 1959, 

in Springfield, III., where he practiced law- until 
1920. Sur\-iving is his wife and two daughters. 
WILLIAM F. MONTAVON, '98, died Feb. 15. 

1959, in Washington, D.C. He was a pioneer of 
the National Catholic Welfare Conference and di­
rected its legal department for 25 vears. 
PIERRE de LUNDEN, 'II, died Nov. 6, 1958, in 

Brussels, Belgium. He was decorated for ser\'icc 
during World War I. His wife and four children 
5ur\"ivc him. 
L.\WRENCE J. REBILLOT, '13, died April 4, 

1959, in Louisville, Ohio, where he \vas a life resi­
dent and prominent member of the K. of C. Sur­
viving are his widow and two sons. 
ROYAL H. BOSSHARD, '17, died Jan. 24, 1959, 

in Milwaukee, Wis. Survivors arc his wife and a 
son and dauglitcr. 
RICHARD C. MUCKERM.VN, '20, died March 

15, 1959, in St. Louis, Mo., where he u-as a promi­
nent businessman and former owner of the St. 
Louis Browns' baseball club. He w*as recently 
knighted by the Pope Pius XII in recognition of 
his x-aried philanthropic activities. Sur\-ivors are 
his wife and son. 
EDWIN J. BYRNE, '22, died Feb. 18, 1959, In 

Natcliez, Miss., according to word from his wife, 
who sur\"ives. 
WALTER R. R.\DER, '24, died Jan., 1959, In 

Coshocton, Ohio, where he was a prominent busi­
nessman and active in athletic and recreation pro­
grams. Sur\'ivors include his wife, a daughter and 
a son. 
EMMETT M. CRINAGER, '25, died Mardi 25, 
1959, in Clear Lake, Minn., according to word re­
ceived from Ills widow, who sur\'ivcs. He abo had 
tliree brothers who attended Xotrc Dame, Paul, '21, 
Havel, '23, and Sianlcv, '28. 
LEO P. ST. JOHN, '26, died Jan. 28, 1959, in 
Tampa. Fla. His mother 5ur\'Ives. 
VICTOR G. YAW.\L\X, '26, died Feb. 14, 1959, 
in Rochester, N.Y., where he was president-treasurer 
of Vawman Metal Products, Inc. Sur\-ivors are his 
wife, a son and three daughters. 
SISTER VINCENT de P.\UL, I.H.M., '27, died 
in Detroit, Mich., according to word received in 
the .\IumnI Office. 
JOSEPH A. H.\XEY, '28, died April 15, 1959, 
In Xe^vark. X.Y., where lie was a former AVayne County district attorney and an attorney for 29 years. He was a veteran of World War 11. Sur­vivors arc three sisters and four brothers. His brother Louis F. graduated from Notre Dame in '29. :. EDWARD P. McGUIRE, '28, died April 2,1959, 'in Chicago, 111., according to word received in the Alumni Office. He is 5ur\'ived by his wife, a son 
and daughter. 
PAUL L. CLfVRK, '29, died June 19, 1958, in 
Lexington, Ky., according to word received In the 
AhimnI Office from his wife, who 5ur\'Ivcs. 
HUGH Hx\YES, '30, died suddenly last summer 
in Oregon, Wis., where he practiced law. His son, 
Michael R., graduated from Notre Dame in 1957. 
CHARLES E. ROHR, '30, died April 3, 1959, In 
Cleveland, Ohio. He was a well known rcstaura­
tuer, past president and Man-of-the-Ycar of the 
X. D. Club of Cleveland. He was elected to the 
-Alumni Board of Directors in 1958 to serve a three-year term. He Is survived by his wife, three sons and a daughter. His son, Charles, Jr., graduated from Xotrc Dame in 1958. 
REV. RICHARD D. MURPHY, C.S.C., *31, died .•\pril 18, 1959, at X^otrc Dame, Ind. He was the Director of Admissions for the University since 195S and former assistant professor of physics in the College of Science. He abo taught at Portland, Ore., University and St. Edward's University in .•\ustin, Texas. Survinng are a brother and sister. 
VINCENT D. O'NEIL, '32, died Xov. 10,1958. in Hyannis, Mass., according to word received in the .\lumni Office. Sur\'ivors include his wife, a son and daughter. 
GEORGE MAY^VALT, '32, died Sept., 1958, in .-Vuburn, N.Y., according to word received in the-Alumni Office. 
REV. VINCENT P. BRE.\N.\N, '32, died March 23, 1958, In Butler, Pa., where he was pastor of Holy Sepulcher Church. He was a former member of the National Board of Directors of the Alumni Association. Suni'ivors Include his mother, a sbter and two brothers. 
JOH.V F. FIXXER.AX, '33, died March 15, 1959, in X'e%v York City. He was a veteran of World War II and received the Purple Heart decoration and w-as active in many religious groups in his community. Survivors include his wife, three daughters (one of the daughters Is Sister Michael Maureen of the Sisters of Charity) and a son. 
JOHN A. BUCKLEY, 'SI, died in .April, 1959, in Villa Park, III. Survivors include his wife, three daughters and a son, according to word received In the .Alumni Office. 
FR.\NK G. PETERS, '47, died June 6, 1957, io Chicago, III., according to word received recently in tlic Alumni Office. 
EARL F. MULLEN, '48, died Jan. II. 1959, in Minneapolb, ^Ilnn., where he was associated with the General Electric Co. He was a veteran of AVorld ^\'ar II and is survived by his wife and four children. 
RICHARD MICELI, '53, died March 30, 1959, In South Bend, Ind., where he was employed by the South Bend Tribune. He Is survived by his wife and three daughters. .\NDREW E- FR.\NZONI, JR., '55, died in a plane crash near Cherry Point, X.C., where he ser\'cd as 1st Lt. In the Marine .-Mr Corps. Sur­vivors arc his parents. Dr. and Mrs. .Andrew £. Franzoni of Trenton, X. J., and a brother. 
Sympathy 

GEORGE HARBERT, '18, on the death of his «ite, March, 1959. PAUL BRUST, '28, on the death of his wife, June, 1958. THOMAS J. HILS, '35, on the death of his mother, March 30, 1939. P.AUL V. DELKER, '49, on the death of his wife, March, 1939. 
ROBERT F. CHICKEY, '34, on the death of his father, April 13, 1939. DUKE HANK, '54, on the dcatli.of his father, . Fcbruarj-, 1939. 
LAWRENCE P. CORBETT, JR., '55, on the death of his father, June 7, 1958. FRiVNCIS S. CONNELLY, '57, on the death of his father, March 13, 1939. 
McN,V.\fARA, JA.MES E., '40, JOHN P., '41. EDGAR C , '43, JOSEPH -M., '47, LEO C , JR., '48, ROBERT B., '30, RICHARD F., •», and MICH.AEL J., '53, on the death of their father, AprU 4, 1939. 
w 
CLUB 

Happy news this issue about some birthdays and Golden Jubilees. Three well-known priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross will celt^rate the Fiftieth .Anniversar>- of Ordination this June. REV. EUGENE P. BURKE, C.S.C., will offer hU Golden Jubilee Mass in Sacred Heart Church on the campus on June 26. On the same day REV. THOMAS IRVING, C.S.C., will celebrate Mass commemorat­ing 6fty years as a priest on the campus of St. Mary's College. .A third Golden Jubilee Mass will be said by REV. CORNELIUS J. HAGERTY. C.S.C., in Sacred Heart Church on June 28. Long an enthusIastlC'SUpporter of the Ancient Order 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1939 
of Hibernians in the South Bend area. Father 
Hagcrty received a gold \\atch in comnirmoratioa 
of his anniversary- at the annual St. Patrick's Day 
banquet of the Irish fraternal organization. 
An open house honoring HUGO C. UOTHERT 
of the Class of IBS7 on the occasion of his ninetieth 
birthday was held March 14 in Little Rock, Ark., 
bv his children. Dr. Frances C. Rothcri (St. Mar>'s, 
'17), M. H. ROTHERT, '25, and Mrs. W. J. 
Galling. His daughter, Frances, received an hon­
orary- doctorate from St. Mar>-'s last year. Mr. 
Rothcrt is in good health and has a great interest 
in life. He loves to travel and had just finished 
\-isiting the Catlings in Memphis, Tenn. 
.•\nolher birthdav, the cichty-clghth, was cele­
brated by JAMES J. COOXEY of the Class of 1893 
in Toledo, Oiiio, March 4. Mr. Cooncy, the oldest 
Xotre Dame alumnus in the Toledo area, was feted 
by the officers of the local Notre Dame Club. 
On hand at tlic Universal Notre Dauic Night 
dinner of the Xoire Dame Club of Eastern Indiana 
%*-as CHARLES F. VOGT, of Muncic, a former 
president of the Eastern Indiana Club and an alum­
nus for sixtv vcars. 
Requicscan't In pace: WILLIAM F. MONTAVO.V, 
'98, and JAMES B. QUINN, LL.B., '97. Mr. 
Quinn's daugliier, Mar>-, reported his "intense and 
constant lovaltv to Xoire Dame." 
Solemn Requiem Mass for WILLIAM F. MONTA­VON, Class of 1898, a pioneer in the work of the National Catholic 'Welfare Conference and director of its Legal Department for a quarter ccniurv', was ofFcrcd Feb. 19 in the Shrine of the Blessed .Sacra­ment, Washington, D. C. 
Mr. Montavon died Februar>- 15 at a local hos­
pital after a prolonged illness of several years. 
Honored by popes and lauded by cardinals, arch­bishops and bishops for his years of zeal, prudence and ability, Mr. Montavon retired as director of tlic NCWC Legal Department In 1951 after serving in that post since 1923. 

Born on July 14, 1874, near Portsmouth, Ohio, Mr. Montavon also attended St. Edu-ard's College in Ontario; St. Charles' College in Marvland, and tlie Institute de Stc. Crobc near Paris, France. He recei\-ed hi« doctorate from the Catholic University of America. 
At that time the Catholic University was called upon by ilie U. S. government to supply a tcaclicr for work in tiie Philippines and Mr. ^lontavon was selected for the assignment. In 1915, he became superintendent of schools for the Province of Taj-a­bas, largest in the islands. 
He returned to tlic United States at a time when the U. S. Department of Commerce was organizing its foreign service. Appointments of 10 commercial attaches of the department were authorized by Con­
gress. In a competitive examination with 123 can­

didates, Mr. Montavon won first place and was 
named U. S. Commercial Attaclic in Lima. His 

lerrilor>' covered Peru, Ecuador and BoIK*ia. When 
the Inlcr-.-Ulied Board on Enemy Trading was 
formed in Lima during World War I, Mr. Monta­
von was clioscn as sccretarj*, and chairman of its 
committee on Investigations. 
After World War I, Mr. Montavon left the gov­

ernment service and took a post with an American 
corporation in Peru. He returned to this counlrj* 
in 1923, continued in the 5er\-ice of the corporation 
until 1925 when he was named director of the 
NCWC Legal Department. 
He accompanied the late Msgr. John J. Burke, 

C.S.P., first NCWC general sccretarj', on a mission 
to Mexico at the height of vicious persecution of 
the Churcli In that countr>'. A short time after 
tlic two conferred with the then President Cailcs 
of Mexico, a modus vivcndl was reached and the 
persecution began to abate. 
In 1929, Pope Plus XI conferred Kniglithood in the Order of St. Gregory the Great upon Mr. Montavon in recognition of his work with the NCWC and his efforts In the Mexican situation. A year later, Mr. Montavon made another trip to Mexico, during which he was honored by members of tlic Mexican Hierarchy and by Catholic societies of the nation. 
In 1930, President Herbert Hoover named Mr. ^fontavon to accompany the Forbes Commission on a mission to Haiti, where he rendered Important scr\'icc to the commission as well as to the Haitian Hierarcliy. TIic same year, Dayton University con­ferred an honorary doctorate of lau-s upon Mr. Montavon and the following year he was named for the Catholic Action Medal by St. Bonaventure 
(N. Y.) University. In subsequent years, Mr. Montavon iervcd in a number of advlsorj- posts for tlie U. S., princlpally In Latin American affairs, while continuing as head of the NCWC Legal Department. A second papal honor came to him in 1945 when Pope Pius XH named him a Knight Commander of St. Gregorj- the Great. Mr, Montavon's wife died several years ago. On the occasion of his retirement fiom the NCWC, Mr. Montavon received the paternal bless­ing of Pope Pius XII and tributes from scores of members of the U. S. hierarcliy. He also was lauded by the National Health and Welfare Re­tirement Association for his efforts in establishing a retirement system for members of the NCWC 
stafT and for his scrx'Iccs as a trustee in the or­ganization. 
^[embc^s of the hierarcliy in this country and In i 

Mexico praised the ser\"Ice rendered to the Church i 
by Mr. Montavon as he ^^'as laid to rest In Moun^^ 
Olivet Cemetery. i 
Ardibishop Patrick A. O'Boyle of Washington 

presided at tlic Solemn Requiem Mass. Bishop 
Howard J. Carroll of . /Utoona-Johnstown, former \ 
general secretary- of the NCWC, and Auxlllarv-• 
Bishop John if. McNarnara of Washington were in I 
the sanctuary, as were a number of nionsignori 
and priests. ' 
Msgr. Paul F. Tanner, NCWC general secretary, • 

was celebrant of the Mass. Priests on the NCWC : 
headquarters stafT filled the other offices of the Mass. ; 
The death of Mr. Montavon calls not only for j 

an expression of sympathy tf> relatives and friends, '• 
but also "for an expression of thanks to Almighty • 
God for haring raised up among us a man of such \ 
deep faith, sincere devotion to the interests of tht ^ 
Church and gcneious dedication of his unusual j 
talents to the welfare of his fellow men,'' Arch-; 
bishop Karl J. .-Mter of Cincinnati said in a mes-: 
sage read by Msgr. Tanner. I 
Tlic cliairman of the NCWC administrative board : 

added that the Conference "gratefully acknowledges 
Its indebtedness to his wise counsel, generous self-
sacrifice and highly efficient ser%ice in the Legal De­
partment over a period of many years. He was a 
pioneer in the formation of our traditions." 
Archbishop Joseph F. Rummel of New Orleans said Mr. ilontavon "merited the gratitude of our Catholic hierarcliy by his constant dedication and profound understanding" In connection with the XCWC office. ^ 
Mr. Montavon was a distinguished Catholic "who gave his most valued services to the NCWC," said .Ardibishop Francis P. Keough of Baltimore. 
Service rendered by Mr. Montavon toward _ the settlement of the persecution waged against the Church In Mexico In the time of President Cailcs was recalled by a telegram from Archbishop Miguel Darlo Miranda y Gomez of Mexico. The Arch­bishop, then a young priest, worked with Mr. Montavon in seeking a settlement of the persecution. 
"From the bottom of my heart," said Archbishop Miranda, "I join NCWC niouniing with my prayers for Mr. Montavon whose long and faithful £er\'Icc of our Holy Mother the Church we all admire and praise." 
Bishop Emmet M. Walsh of Yoimgstown, epis '-^ copal diairman of the XCWC Legal Department,*^ recalled tliat for over a quarter of a centurv- Mr. ilontavon ''filled with great distinction the onerous office of director of the Legal Department and was one of ilie key figures in NCWC* "His great gifts of mind and heart aided mightily In building 
LOS ANGELES—Some of the men present at L.A.'s tremendous UJf.D. Night were (kneeling, 1. to r.) Bion Vogel, President Don Brady, John "Judge" Carberry; George Riley, entertainer; Jack Skeehan, James McCabe; (standing, I. to r.) Man-of-the-Year Eugene M. Kennedy. X immediate past vice president of the Alumni Association; his brother, Lawrence Kennedy; John Miller, Leo B. Ward, Dick Hanousek,<i^J Tom Ashe, Thos. C. "Cy" Kasper; Father Heinzer, CS.C; James Smith, Jr., former All-Amcrican captain, U.S.C.; Bob Alexander, enter-i tainer; Father Higgins, CS.C.; Tom Lieb, John Scully, Charles Kennedy, John McArdle; entertainer Mickey Shaughnessy, toastmaster, 1 
and Norman Hartzer. 

28 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 
up tlic ability of XCWC to serve the Cliurch." 

^ Bishop Carroll said Mr. Montavoti's scmccs to 
i^ie Church "were manifold, vast in their scope and of inestimable significance . . .'* *'His uncommon background of scholarship and experience, his vision and his line Catholic sensibilities were a Providen­tial blessing to tlie Legal Department of l!ic NCWC in its difficult fonnative years," the Bishop added. "/\s a pioneer in the establishment of that depart­ment he had a large role in laying the solid base upon which it has risen to eminence and esteem." 
In Portland, Ore., Multnomah County Circiiit Judge FRANK J. LONERG^VX, '04, was treated for a dislocated liip in February after an automobile collision. Judge Lonergan recovered satisfactorily and said he was thankful his injuries were not more serious. 

^ Since this has been a jubilee issue we shouldn't forget the anniversaries of two well-known Brothers of Ilnlv Cross on .March 19, 50 vears for BRO. GREGORY K.ACZYNIALSKI, C.S.C., and an amazing 60 vears for BRO. BERNARD GERVAIS, CS.C, 
JUNE I2-I3-I4 
A 
Back on Fcbniar\' 8 the Long Island Division of the Notre Dame Club of New* York City held its second annual Golden Anniversary* Cocktail Dance in honor of JOHN B. KA.VALEY. One of the highlights was the reading of congratulatory mes­sages from CARDINAL 0'HAR;\, FATHER HES­BURGH and Alumni Secretary J.\MES E. ARM­STRONG. 

«1910 
A note from LEO C. McELROY, \ice president of L. E. McGivena 5: Co., Inc., .\dverlising, 444 Madison Ave., New York 22, N. Y. "Mac" writes: 
"I have so rarely seen an item in the .ALUMNUS Magazine relating to a member of the Class of 1910, it was a pleasure to read in the Mardi is'sue that HARRY MILLER and BILL SCH.MITT had a reunion in Baltimore last fall. 
"So there arc at least three of our Class still linng. I ivonder about the others. Is there no way you could get some sort of report from thein? 
":\s you well know, I am still doddering along, still crusading for a blue-shiried football team and probably making a nuisance of m^'self in doing so, 

^hough I think logic and tradition arc all on my side. 
"Perhaps If you publish this note in the magazine, some of the other 'lOers will crawl out of their caves and let me hear from them. 
"I might even hear from some of my friends in the later classes, like (Fr.) BERNIE LANGE, the welglitlifter, who was also a pretty good cartoonist. He helped us get out the 1910 DOME. And hand­some, plump and friendly CLYDE BROUSSARD of Beaumont, Texas, who crashed the 1913 Class notes in March." 

Late congratulations to BILL SCHMITT on his appointment to the University's Advisory Council ^for Sdcnce and Engineering. 

Fred L. Steers 
1911 
105 S. LaSalle St. Chicago 3, Illinois 

From the Alumni OfEce: CLYDE BROUSSARD, '13, reports: "I have just received information of the death in Bnissels, Bel­gium, of PIERRE dc LUNDEN on November b, 1938. Pierre and his brother, CHARLES dc LUN­DEN, were students of Electrical Engineering at Notre Dame between 1907 and 1911. . . . Pierre was awarded honors for service during World War I, ^h e Croix du Feu and the Croix dc I'Yser. Pierre Vtad lived for many years in the home which was occupied by him during his student days at Notre Dame. The address is 72 Avenue dc l*/\rmee, Brussels, Belgium. His wile, four children and grandchildren survive him.'* 
GOLDEN CIRCLE—More than forty alumni and friends of Notre Dame heard James E. Armstrong, executive alumni secretary, speak at the Castle in Olcan, New York, on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. Present were (1. to r.) Prof. Nicholas J. Amato, '44, newly-elected vice president of the Golden Circle Club of southwestern New York and northwcstem Pennsylvania; James F. McVay, '43, president; the Very Rev. Brian Lhota, O.F.M., president of St. Bonavcnturc University; Mr. Armstrong; the Rev. Frederick Reilly, assistant pastor, St. Bernard Church, Bradford, Pa.; Dr. Russell J. Jandoli, '40, dinner chaihnan, and Nicholas J. Ash, '49, secretary-treasurer. 
B. J. "Ben" Kaiser 
1912 


604 East Tenth St. 
Berwicfc, Pa. 

From the .MuranI Office: W.-VLTER DUNCtVN was on the campus during the last week of May for a meeting of the .t\ssociate Board of Lay Trustees and passed along a hello to his classmates. 
1913 ^^^ ^ Byrne 
• ^ • •* 360 Warner Ave. Syracuse 5, N. Y. 

From the Alumni Office: \VILLI.\M E. COTTER, who died in August of 1957, would be pleased at his son's election to the presidency of the ^Uumni .-\ssociatIon, whicli he he.ided twenty years ago, just as Jim Kcenan, Jr., who died In 1941, would certainly have loved to live in the residence hall dedicated as his memorial by his dad, J.V.MES F. KEEN/VN. Classmates will be happy to hear that Pope John XXIII has conferred Knighthood In the Order of St. Gregory- the Great on HARRY J. KIRK for his many efforts In behalf of the Church. Tlic in­signia was presented by .-Xrchbishop Boyle at Wash­ington's St. Matthew's Cathedral in ^Iarch. 
JD JUNE 12-13-14 
. RtUWOH CLASS » 

W 

Ron O'Neill 

1914 
1350 N. Black Oak Dr. South Bend 17, Ind. 

From the Alumni Office: Class Secretary and Commerce Prof RO ^ O'NEILL is still on leave of absence, recuperating from successful throat surgery which has tem­porarily hindered his ability to conduct a class or this column. His classmate and fellow* law>-cr, \\^\LTER CLEMENTS, has graciously consented to ser\'c as Acting Secretary of the Class of '14 and 
Local Chairman of its Reunion in June. Walter and several other locals — like F.^THER SALVATOR FANELLI and LEO ZGODZINSKI 
— will be on hand to Lost the festivities at DUIon Hall and the ilorris Inn. They hope to see many friends. 
jVmong those \vho have already indicated their detcrminauon to attend arc CHARLIE VAUGHAN, from Lafayette. Ind.; JOHN HYNES, Des Moines. Iowa; FR^\NK KIRCHNLAN. all the ^vay from Denver, Colo.; and JOE WALSH from 'way, *way out in Spokane, Washington, where he toils as Sec-retar>--Treasurer of the local Notre Dame Club, wrote, "I am planning on being batJ: for the 43th Reunion. God willing." 
Congratulations are overdue for M. E. WALTER, editor of the Houston, TCK., Chronicle, on his ap­pointment by Pope John XXIII to the Knights of Malta. Cardinal Spellman officiated at the cere­mony in New York's St. Patrick's Cathedral in January. 
10 1 C James £. Sanford 1429 W. Farragut Ave. Chicago 40, HI. 
From the Alumni Office: DR. GEORGE X. SHUSTER, the Class' hardiest headline-grabber, has been at it again. In Febru­ary his address to 700 Hunter College alumnae at New York's .-\slor Hotel rated a couple of columns in the Sunday Times for its frank appraisal of U.S. education. Tlien he announced that he would re­sign ne-\t January as president of Hunter to devote more time to writing. (He has published a score of books and been an editor of Commonweal for years.) TTien on April 21 he was awarded Ford-Iiam University's Insignis Medal for ''extraordinary distinction in the service of God through excellent professional performance.*' 
1916 ^^^""'^ ^' ^liUcr 

612 Wisconsin Ave. 
Racine, Wisconsin 

On the campus recently for a meeting^ of the .Associate Board of Lay Trustees, JOE LaFORTUNE confided a little about bis labors In behalf of Catholic education in the Tulsa area but only hinted at his part in the construction of a beau­tiful chapel for a local women's college. Joe prob­ably didn't take the time to inspect the results of spring housecleaning in the Notre Dame Student Center that bears bis name. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 2959 29 
1917 Edu-ard J. McOskcr 
• ' • 2205 Brianvood Road Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio 

From tlic Alumiii OfHcc: Scvcnlctfncrs in llic news: SAM FEIWELL, re­cent candidate for the judiciarx*. representing South Bend property ou~ncrs in recent civil litigation; DR. 
D. M. NIGRO, president of Kansas Cit\-'s Rocknc Club, whose annual testimonial in \rarcli honored, among manv celelis, DR. EDDIE vVNDERSOX, '22. for his service to football, CH.ARLIE OVLLAHAX, *38. as "Publicitv Director of the Year" and XICK PIETROSrVNTE, '59, as ''Football Flavcr of the Ycar-^ LEO VOGEL, who succeeded O. J. DOR­WIN as Fund Vice-President of the .-Mumni Mso­ciation, and BERXIE VOLL^ seen squiring his bride to recent events on campus. 
1918 Charles W. Call 225 PateKon Ave. Hasbrouck Heights, N, J. 

After a Ions and distinguished career as Super­intendent of Schools, at Escanaba, Mich., Class President JOHN A. LEMMER, will retire as of June this year. John hopes to devote an incrca."^ ing amount of time to Rolarv", of which be w District Governor, a di\-ision which Includes nn less than 39 Rotar>- clubs. 
Sadness has hit GEORGE E. HARBERT, long our class secrctarv- up to a year ago, with the un­timely death of liis oldest son, Richard, who was killed in an airplane accident. Richard was 32 years old. and left a wife and three young cliildrcn. The tragic death was preliminarv' to a heart at­tack suffered by Mrs. Harben, which shortly proved fatal. 
JOHN VOELKERS, who has been retired at Si. Augustine, Fla., presently plans to move to Orlando, Fla., which he refers to as a much more progressive community. John was in South Bend for one of its worst snowstorms last Winter, to visit his brother, and he reports be could not get back to Florida quick enough to enjoy the warmth. 
LEO GAUSS, who recalls with pleasure tliat he spent some time in Bronson Hall tliird floor dor­mitorv-, is completing 30 years in the Fire and Casualty Insurance business. He enjoys getting back to the campus for an occasional football game. 
TOM KING, the Michigan State University Dean of Students, is lyrical about his recent trip to Ireland. His fatlier was bom in Galway. This may account for Tom's fine disposition at all times ex­cept when be u^as the smashing end on two or three of Rocknc's grc^at football teams. 
jn 
JUNE 12-13-14 

1 0 1 O Theodore C. Rademaker Peru Foundrj' Co. Peru, Indiana 
From the .-Mumtii Office: Sccreiar>' TED RADEMAKER rushed up to tbc campus recently for a conference with Local Chair­man P.-VUL FENLON to insure a slam-bang 40th Reunion at Dillon Hall and tbc Morris Inn. After those two beads got together letters started flying. If you didn't get one it's only because the Peru­vian and the Professor ran out of stamps. Vou arc cvpecied on June 12. 
192 0 J^^™^ ^- l^yan 
107 Magee Ave. Rochester 10, N. Y. 

From tlie Alumnt Oflicc: Pray for RICHARD C. MUCKERMxVX, who died soon after being named a Kniglit of Malta by Pope John XXIII, A former owner of the St. Louis Browns, Richard ran a bottling company and other enterprises, was active in political, dvic and arch­diocesan affairs. 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 
RAY T. MILLER, '14 Clearly, a Clevelander 

On April 12, 1959, at the Cleveland Club's Rocknc Communion Breakfast, the title "Notre Dame Man of the Year" for 1959, highest award to a Cleveland alum­nus, was bestowed on Ray T. Miller for his outstanding contributions to Cleveland alumni as an original organizer of the Cleve­land Club; for scr\'ing as the Club's first president, and for his continuous support over the many years. 
A graduate ol the Notre Dame Law School and a practicing lawjer for 45 years, Ray Miller has ser\*ed as prosecuting at­torney of Cuyahoga County and mayor of Cleveland, and is known as one of Cleve­land's outstanding citizens. He is still ac­tively engaged in politics by serving as chairman of the Democratic Party of Cuya­hoga County (Cleveland), a position he has held since 1938. He is a familiar figure at all Democratic National Conventions. 
At present Ray ser\'cs as a director of Catholic Charities Corporation. He has long had a devoted interest in the Knights of Columbus, an interest which began during his college days. He has ser\'ed as Grand Knight, State Deputy and member of the Supreme Board of Directors of the Knights of Columbus from 1934 to 1946. In 1947 he was chosen as the Cleveland Catholic Man of the Year. 
Besides his extensive law practice, Ray finds time to scr\'e as chairman of the board of Cleveland Broadcasting, Inc., of which he is the principal stockholder; president of Fiberglass-Ohio, Inc., and Searles Lake Chemical Corporation. 
A true Notre Dame man, Ray is one of five brothers all of whom attended Notre Dame and played on the varsity football teams. His wife, Ruth, has long been active in Catholic women's organizations of Cleve­land. He has two daughters and four sons, all graduates of the University. With 16 grandchildren bom to date, Notre Dame has not seen the last of Ray's family. 
1921 ^^" ^^-^^^y 
•'^ ' 1101 N.B.C. BIdg. 
^ 
Cleveland 14, Ohio 

From the Alumni Office: Assistant Engineering Dean KAY SCHUBMEHL, who was a tcclinically proficient judge of specifi­cations for last year's Soap Box Derby sponsored by the South Bend Jaycces, will probably repeat the assignment in July. There arc no details, but 'it has been learned that REV. MAURICE FL.\HERT^% S.J., died in 1957 at Gon/aga University. 
1922 ^^^^^ ^* ^^^ 
39 Cambridge St. Rochester 7, N. Y. ^ 

Ordinarily it is not a difficult task to gather to­gether and consolidate a few notes of interest for reading by our classmates, except when tlic>* con­cern the death of our wonderful campus companions of long ago, and especially so when such friends have been extremely Io\-al over the years in sup-• porting the Class of '22. It is indeed a very sad I task to mention that two very fine gentlemen of j '22 can ii» longer answer the roll call of future i reunion conclaves on this earth but ibcy do greatly augment our Chapter in Heaven. God in His Wis­dom summoned from this world, on Dec. 27. STEPHEN E. a\RMODY of CarlinvJlle, III., and on Feb. 18, EDWIN J. BYRNE of Natclicz. Miss.^ We cannot comment on them separately because^ each bad much admiration for the other, also be­cause they have left us almost hand-in-hand. When­ever men of this Class gather in the future it is quite unlikely they will not be thinking of Steve Carniody and Eddie Byrne, both of whom could count every classmate as a close personal friend. Tlic fine qualities of each should inspire us greatly. I do rejoice that I had remembered to send Christ­mas greetings lo Steve and Eddie to take on their journey. Our very deep sympathy to Mrs. Cannody and Mrs. Byrne, to their children and other rela­tives. We exhort all to remember the deceased in vour pravcrs. 
CHARLES "RED" CROWLEY, former thrush of the Notre Dame Glee Club, assumed the role oi**" spectator-critic when the current edition of ihe^ Glee Club visited John Hancock Hall in Boston .March 31. CLIPPER SMITH, please note! 
Last fall sports editor Jimmy Powers devoted a whole column to our EDDIE ANDERSON, head football coach at Holy Cross. Among other things. Jimmy referred to Eddie as the nation's Dean of coaches — the senior major college coacli, who was voted by college coaclies themselves the no. 1 coacli in the East for all-round skills, personality and ethics. ".Ml things considered," said Jimmy, *'—player, coacli, physician and surgeon — Eddie Anderson is quite an hombre." We second the mo­tion. 
Dx\N YOUNG reports a visit with FRED BAU­MER in Jacksonville, Fla. Fred's oldest son is at-/^ tending Catholic U. and expects to be ordained in*' about four years. Dan and wife expected to be away from the U. S. for six weeks but neglected to furnish their itincrar>'. 
A Caribbean cruise proved to be delightful and most restful to Mr. and Mrs. J.ACK HIGGINS of Detroit-Birmingham, Mich. Jack and wife were 1 aboard an Alcoa steamship which put into the Port of Ciudad Trujillo, Dominican Republic, on March 
25. They sailed from New Orleans. 
DR. HENRY ATKINSO.V and wife left Green Bay, Wis., on March I for a \-acation visit in Florida. 
From the Alumnt Ofiice: '^' 
Atlanta's HARRY MEHRE was seen gladdening* the Southern football banquet circuit with droll tales of 25 years of woe as a Georgia and Missis­sippi head football coach, hounded by fate and "Yankee officiating." 
1 923 Louis V. Bruggner 2165 Riverside Dr. South Bend, Indiana 
Be With Thee in Sixty-Three If not, pray for me — 
— GEORGE N. SCHUSTER 

The above slogan for the 1963 Reunion of the-^J Class of 1923 was received in the mail, apparentl>^ in response to the announced contest for tlie best such slogan. Ostensibly it came from our erstwhile prof, but it u-as typed on 5tationcr>' of the U.S.O. and bore a Kansas City postmark, dues which point 
£ 

HAWAII—^This happy group was in attendance at the Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner of the N.D. Club of Hawaii April 17 in Honolulu. 
to the identity of FOD COTTON* as the author of the suppliant gem. To Fed would go the an­nounced prize of two unused tickets to the Purdue football game last fall, but since tiie au'ard is of such axcecding value, it is being withheld lest any better ideas come in a later mail. 
Happily, there arc no deaths of classmates to report, although sadness dogs the lives of several of our boys with deaths in the family or their own serious sicknesses. JULIUS T. HERZOG lost his 

^-ife Julia on May 29, 1938. This ofHce had no inkling of his bereavement until ED KREIMER told me that JuHe had made a notation to tliat efTect on a Christmas card he sent to Ed. Besides the husband, a married daughter, Nrar>' Frances, sur\'ivcs. I am sure I speak for the Class in of­fering belated but sincerest sympathy lo the sur­vivors. 
Also relayed to me by JIM xVRMSTROXG was the news of the death of the mother of FIt:VNCIS 
X. DISNEY on January 11. She was remembered in a special Mass on the campus on Saturday, Feb­ruary 7. Our sympathy and prayers, also, Frank. 
Our popular Reunionist of last summer, D.\N NOL/\X, suffered a heart attack on December 6 and was in Latrobc, Pennsylvania, Hospital for three 

^|vceks, according to a note from ^frs. Nolan dated ^TDec 15. "If ever>-lhlng goes well," she wrote, "Dan may be home for Christmxs. . . . He is still 
FORT WAYNE—New officers of the Fort Wayne Club Avho took office after Universal Notre Dame Night are: (standing, 1. to r.) Allen C. ^Vard, treasurer; Robert R, Luther, ^secretary; (seated, l.'to r.) Joseph Daniels, membership vice president; Paul O. Schir­meyer, president, and Ralph Blume, pro­gram vice president. 
planning on the '(i3 reunion." And so arc we, 
Mrs. N. 
LINUS GLOTZBACH at last report continues on 
the sick list. J.-\CK NORTON relayed a letter to 
me from Mrs. G. in which she reported, as of 
Dec. 29, that Linus had been operated on again. 
Whether your voting or my mail campaign was 
decisive is not clear, but I am glad to report that 
W. ED.MUND SHE.-V, 1923, Dayton, Ohio, attor­ney, was elected to the .-Vlumni Board of Directors, according to an announcement appearing in the South Bend Tribune, Jan. 13. Bucking the voting strength of the more populous nc^ver classes. Red was elected along with J/\.MES J. BYRNE, M3, PAUL J. GUSHING, '31. and WALTER L. FLEM­ING, JR., MO. Congratulations, Red. Now our classmates can write to you for oO->'ard line seats, instead of lo me. 
Between-the-Iine-reading JOHN BYRNE scribbled 
me a red-ink (?) note on a scrap of paper stapled 
to a sheet torn out of Time magazine: "Have wc 
an Ambassador in our Class?" TIic Time article 
was page 14 of the issue dated Dec 29, showing 
a picture of Peru's ambassador FERXi\NDO 
BERCKE.MEYER. 
Move over, RED SHE.\ and H.\NK BARNH^VRT 
and F.VTHER aWANAUGH and FR.\NK WAL­
LACE, et al. 
"Old Faithful" KID .ASHE, '22, sent mc a note in February': "am enclosing a Chrbtmas card from AL PICKS. It has some news tid-bits for '23. . . many thanks for sending me your bulletins." The card, Ficks to .-Xshe lo Bruggner, sa^-s: '"Spent the summer in Japan, Hong Kong and the Philippines. Flew both *^*ays, had wonderful time, our weather has been wonderful here. BILL VOSS was in town — talked to hiin on phone — did not get lo see him. His son works out here." 
HY HUNT single-spaced two typewritten pages on hotel slationerv* from Charles City, Iowa, in November; **In territory tonight and realized I had not paid the bank charges on Class of '23 checking account, so here is clieck. . . since I left the Re­union the last I have seen of anv N. D. man was PAUL a\STNER." 

.Another greatly-prized picture came in December from FR.\NK S. DORIOT of the Doriot Distribut­ing Co., Huntington, W. Va.. showing him shaking hands with ARTHUR "HECTOR" GARVEY. Both men are grinning from ear to car which bears out informalicn in Frankie's letter; **Heclor Garvey had a state convention here in Huntington. . . . and he did it up brown. .. . a real show, plenty of cver\'thing. . . . hasn't changed much after 38 years — still possessed of a great memory and is an e.\ceptioitally good entertainer. . ." 
A clipping from the Marinette, Wis., Eagle-Star dated Jan. 13 announces the formation by Ansul Chemical Company of a foreign-based subsidiar>', Ansul International Corporation, S. .A. with L. T. PLOUFF as Vice-President and General ^tanager. A tip of the hat to Tom, whose picture graced the newspaper article. 
The clipping arrived on this desk through the alertness of HENRY J. L.AUERMf\N' who, in a now-it-can-be-told paragraph, explained that the groundwork for this reorganization of the chemical combine is what took Tom to Europe last spring, after he had made plans to attend our Reunion. An enigmatic sentence added: "I -am happy to re­port that my recovery, while not complete, is pro­gressing daily and I will continue to look fonvard to our 40th." Was ya sick. Hank? 
'*Janc and I just returned (Nov. 19) a few weeks ago from an extended stay in Morocco," " writes KEN KRIPPENE. . . . "Jane spent five weeks in a harem. . . I u-as not invited. . . spent my time in Tangier. . . side trips into the Saliara. . . Jane's new book to be published in the spring. . . She tells me some of the wivts (numbering three) and concubines (12) were not only imusual but very beautiful. . . the harem book should be of particu­lar interest to LYLE MILLER. . . . We are return­ing shortly to Ecuador where we have a small coffee plantation and in December Jane is meeting with SLX other girls for a new expedition." 
In November the Blue Circle at N.D. impor­tuned JACK NORTON for early .information on the birth and growth of the said B.C. Who found­ed it? Why founded? What committees operated? etc. "The answer was simple," opined Jact, "The class of 1923 put the Boosters (now the Blue Circle) on the map." 
Said MERLIN ROLWING at our Reunion last June: "There was a lad named Unverfcrth in our Class. . . what's become. .? " At hand is a letter from E. B. UNXHERFERTH from the law ofHces of Unverferth &, Unverferth, Ottawa, Ohio, dated Dec 30, to wit: "Dear Louis, NELSON J. CALLAHAN handed to us recently your letters styled "Make It a Dale in '38,". and these were a revelation after thirty-odd years." 
From the rUumni Office: Portland, Ore., Postmaster AL HODLER had a busy February. He was elected chairman of the Multnomah County chapter of the March of Dimes and was injured (not seriously) in an automobile accident along with JUDGE FR:\NK LONERG-AN, 
Crawford County, 111., State's Attorney J. STAN­LEY BR/VDBURY, whose busy schedule dashed his hopes of attending last year's reunion with LYLE MILLER and BILL FITZGER:\LD, received a dou­ble commendation in a resolution adopted by the convention of the Illinois Stale's Attorneys' Asso­ciation praising his work with delinquent children as president of the state's Big Brothers and Sisters Association. 
Congratulations to HENRY BARNH.ART, vice-president of the Ba]d\rin-Lima-HamiIton Corp., on his appointment last fall to the Univ'ersity's Advisory Council for Liberal and Fine Arts. 
JUNE I2-I3-I4 

giafea  
109 4  James R. Mechan  
I WM.T  J29 s. Lafayette Blvd.  

South Bend, Indiana 

From the Alumni OfHce: Secretary- JIM MEEHr\X cnlbtcd the help of Go­shen's BOB RINK in arranging for a great 35th Reunion June 12-14. Planning a program that will ' start with a dinner and get-together in the ^la­hogany Room of the Morris Inn, Jim and Bob picked a committee of coordinators to bring the *24 grads back to the campus, including: JUDGE TOM DONOVAN, Chicago; EDDIE MCLAUGH­LIN, Detroit; CLIFF NOONAN, \Vilmettc, 111.; FARRELL JOHNSTON, Davton, O.; DICK MII^ LER, Saj^-ille, N.Y.; TEX RICKARO, Los Ange­les; FATHER TOM KELLY, Portland, Ore.; TIM 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 31 
MURPHY, Hartford, Conn., and JIM SWIFT of Dallas, Tex. 
A note from REV. CIRIACO PEDROSA, O.P., reveals that he has been in the Philippines for many years and is presently Dean of tlie College of Ub­eral Arts at the University of Santo Tomas, the Catliolic University of the Philippines, in Manila. Concurrently Father Pcdrosa is ser\-ing as head of the ph>-5ics and mathematics departments and is \1cc-Reclor of llie University, a \-aricty of jobs tiiat would seem to call for a universal genius. Father Pedrosa wrote: "I still hope I will not die without seeing again Notre Dame. May God grant mc that little tiling." 

R. C. MILLER, in town for a football game last fall, passed on an item about R. F. GIBBONS, \-ariousIy known as "Mike" and "Dick,*' to Sccre­tarv* JIM MEEH/\N. California's Pacific Switch­gear Div. of I'cdcral Pacific Electric profiled Dick as manager of Pacific's Product Engineering Sub­section. In the electric game on tlie Coast all but a few years since graduation, he has been chief en­gineer, general manager, etc, of various divisions of Federal Pacific TJie piece pictured Dick as athlete, cliess player, Irish fan, husband of Dorothy, father of Dick, Mike and Mar>' ^lartlia in Saratoga, Calif. 
1 925 John P. Hurley I »Ai» 2085 Brookdale Road Toledo 6, Ohio 

Congratulations fellows. . . the class of '25 ^vas second only to tlic class of '07 in percentage of par­ticipation in your contributions to tlic Notre Dame Foundation. Keep up the good %v'ork and we ^\'ill be on top! Since the Christinas letter I have seen ver>- few of the '25crs. I did see WARD Mca\R ­RON. While in Ft. Lauderdale for a feiv weeks in Marcli, Mrs. Hurley and 1 were attending Mass and who came along to take up the collection? . . . You guessed it. Ward himself. He really looks good and after ^lass we had a cliance for a few minutes cliat. Ward is a permanent citizen of Lauderdale and it certainly agrees with him. I also had a pleasant visit with BOB GORE, class of '31. Bob and his brothers just about nm that whole Lauderdale area. They are doing a fine Notre Dame job too. I was sorry to miss one of the 
N. D. Club's dinner parties whicli was held the Tuesday before Lent. Also sorrv' to have missed seeing STE\''E CORBOY, who is associated with Town and Country* Properties of Boca Raton, Fla. We uTOte about Steve's doings just a year ago. JOE TOOLEN is over on the West Coast and some mutual fncnds have told us he is in ver>' good health despite the rumors that made the rounds at our cocktail party last fall. 
Speaking of cocktail parties you might as well know now tliat October 31 will be the next one ^vllen Notre Dame %vill play Na^y. We will have to name tliis one The RIP MILLER cocktail party and wc will sec that he Is there. . . AWU or lose. 
Just in case I failed to mention it before ROB­ERT D. "SLICK" O'NEIL, CE '25, died last August 22. Slick lived at 5525 Soutli Peoria St., Chicago, III. Wc were also shocked to learn of the death of HARRY "HES" ^V.MBROSE of Washing­ton, D.C, and EM.MET GRLVAGER of Clear L^e , Minn. Masses for these fellows have been taken care of by HANK WURZER out of our Mass Fund. Keep up tliosc prayers for tliosc class­mates. Some time ago I received a letter from a well-knotvn member of tiie class of '26. It came from MARK E. MOONEY who is Vice-President of the Typhoon ^Vir Conditioning Co, of Brooklyn, 
N.Y. I don't believe I ever mentioned hearing from Mark. He wTote, in part: "Ei'erj- time I re­ceive my copy of the ALUMNUS I look for your letter describing what's happening in the class of 1925. Sometimes It's good news, and sometimes it's ver>' sad." He mentioned that he u-as shocked to learn of the deaths of BOB COONEY and RAY CUN*NINGIL\M. It brought to my mind that BOB COONEY's father, who ^vas 88 a few weeks ago, had a birthday party and the officers of tlie Toledo Notre Dame Club were there. A picture was taken whicli will be in this issue. JIM COO­NEY is the oldest Notre Dame Alumnus in Toledo, with GEORGE COVERT, SR., running a close second. They are both vcr>' active. JIM COONEY has been ill since Christmas but he told me last Sunday that he would make our Communion Break­fast next Sunday. I tliought MARK MOONEY would like to have tliat word on Bob's father. JIM COONEY kne^v Father Sorin and there isn't a man in Toledo more interested in Notre Dame affairs. . . He is a terrific bridge player today. Let that be a lesson to you fello^vs 'who think you should spend the rest of your life in rocking chairs. ORDER 
THOSE N.\\^' TICKETS AN*D COME ON OVER TO THAT COCKTAIL PARTY HONORING RIP MILLER Oct. 31. 
From the Alumni Office: 
JOHN F. KILKENNY was appointed as a Fed­

eral Judge In February. President Eisenhower 
named John to the U. S. District Court for Oregon. 
Well known for his record as a trial attorney in 
Pendleton, Ore., John is a former President of the 
Oregon State Bar Association. 
1 92& ^^^y Gocpfrich 
• ^*' 1109 N. aevdand Ave. South Bend 28, Indiana 
I am 5orr>- to report that most of the news for 

this Issue concerns the deaths of our classmates. 
Seventy-three members of our Class have now-
passed on to their reward. Let's remember all of 
them In our prayers. 
Recent deaths have been ALLEN M. FOLEY, 

JOHN F. O'DONNELL, VICTOR G. YAW.MAN, 
and LEO P. ST. JOHN. All of them have been 
enrolled in the Purgatorial Society of the Holy 
Cross Foreign Missions. 
We were also sorrv to learn of tlie death of 

.Armin A. Suder, father of ARTHUR H. SUDER, 
our Class Vice-President. 
ANDREW F. CONLIN, who lived in LaGrange, 

111., when he was at Notre Dame, is now Execu­
tive \nce-President of the Crcrar Clinch Coal Com­
pany in Chicago. In 1932 Andy married Dorothy 
F. Fleming; they have one daughter. Sheila Ann, who was graduated from St. Mar>*'s College in 1957, and one grandclilld. Andy is Vice-President of tite Chicago Coal Merchants Association and a member of the Itasca Countr>' Club and the Lake Shore .Athletic Club. He expects to attend our 35tli reunion in 1961. 
PHILIP M. DONOV^VN has moved to Cincinnati, Ohio, where he is Dirision Sales Manager of Rc­cordak Corporation, a subsidiary of Eastman Kodak Company. Phil's wife was Josephine McCarthy; they have a son, Midiacl, 13. Phil sav's he sees JOE SHEA occasionally at New York's Statlcr Ho­tel. We can expect to sec Phil at our 35tli. 
Incidentally, our next reunion is only two years away. Preliminary* reports seem to indicate that We will have a good turnout for it. If any of you have any Ideas whicli you believe would be ap­propriate for tills affair, wc would like to hear about tliem. 
TOM FARRELL, our Eastern \^cc-Prcsident, is to be congratulated for the fine showing be made (even as a reluctant candidate} in the elections for tlic .-Mumni Association Board of Directors. Tom can be expected to show up In *6I, If only to cam­paign against his own re-election. 
Further inquiry into LEO ST. JOHN's death re­vealed tliat he died In a Tampa hospital on Jan. 28 and that his mother, who Is 83 years old, survives him. Leo's wife died several years ago; the>' had no children. 
JOHN C. BULGER writes that he will be at our 35th reunion. John is a representative for the Manliatian Refrigerating Company in Chicago. His 
uife is the former Rose O'Learj', whom he married . 
In 1942. 
JOHN RYAN, our President, writes that RAV . 

DURST, our Past President (now a Vlce-Presldenffk 
of the Alumni Assn.), was appointed chairman of 
Universal Notre Dame Night for the Chicago N.D. 
Club this year. We know that this w'ill have been 
a successful affair. 
John also says: "Perhaps while there are still 

some of us around. It might be a good idea to 
appoint some committees for our 35th reunion, 
\%itli instructions to the appointees that their first 
duty is to take care of themselves so as to be on 
hand in June of '61." 
From the Alumni Office: Pcnns>ivania Sccretarv* of Revenue CHARLES M. DOUGHERTY Is married to the former Edna_^ Ryan; is a veteran of 22 years in state and fcdera^' government and Is famed in Ilarrbburg for his fondness for Shakespeare. It was revealed in ^farch that A'^IC Y.-\\V.MAN, beside providing for his widow and four children, relatives, employees and the Holy Cross Foreign Missions, had bcqueatlied $15,{)(X) to the University. 
1927 Clarence J. Ruddy 
* 32 S. River St. Aurora, Illinois 

From the ^Vlumnl Office: MIshawaka Mayor ALBERT L. DOYLE Is ap­parently firm in his decision not to run for re­election. He backed another candidate in the^­primaries. Al and local politicos of all colorations^ joined in an April 29 testimonial to Democratic chieftain PAUL BUTLER. Paul was presented with a Studcbaker Lark. How many arc a\%-arc that '27 has a Castro too? However, Mexican power and light man H. FRAN­CISCO CASTRO hasn't claimed any relationship to Cuban liberator Fidel. Back to the locab, BILL BRODERICK, as audi­tor and investment officer at the University, is still the man to sec about tips on the market, and sportscaster JOE BOLAND Is likely to pop up an>*where from California to Florida on the ban­quet or ball game trail. 
N.D. Atldctic Business Manager HERB JONES was a member of the large contingent from thc^, campus at the funeral of .-Mumni Director CHUCK^^ ROHR, '30. 
1928 ^ui s F. Buckley '^* ' 135 Blue Hills Parkway Milton 86, Mass. The wife of PAUL BRUST died shortly after our 30tli reunion last June. She was a 1933 graduate of Mount Mary College. She left four daughters and four sons, ranging from four to seventeen years of age. Paul has our sincere sympatliy. He has been practicing architecture in ^[iIwaukcc since 1928. He originally w*orked for his father, then uith him and Paul's brother, John, '32. Since their dad's death In 1946 Paul and John have had an Interesting \*ariety of large and small, public and S private, building commissions. Paul has been ac-
MOHAAVK VALLEY—Principals at the Mohawk Valley Cluh's annual Universal Notre Dame Night observance in Rome were (I. to r.) Daniel Waterbury, '44, club president)^! James £. Armstrong, '25, principal speaker; Fr. Francis Willenburg, Head of Catholic 
Charities, who gave invocation; James T. Griffin, '34, toastmaster; and Tony Giruzzi, '36, chairman. 
 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 

tivc in the Scrra Club for some time. He occa­^ionaHy sees CHARLES O'NEILL, *27, just back "Prom tlic Far East for X.C.W.C., and Dean R. C. 
&citz of Marquette Law. JOE LiXNGTOX explained why he missed our class cocktail party last fall after tlie Army game. He was undergoing an operation at the time which involved the rcmo\*al of one lung. Joe has made a satisfacton* rccover\-. He ad\-ised that he has lost 23 lbs.—back to his streamline figure of college days. Joe is president of the Langton Auto Supply Co. in Peoria. His oldest daughter is a frcsliman at Mt. St. Scholastica College in Atcliison, Kansas. M'c arc looking forward to seeing Joe again at tlic Class of '28 cocktail party on October 24 after the Northwestern game next fall. ^[y attention was called to several important Aimissions in my list of 21 bachelors among '28 men which appeared in the December Newsletter. ED RAFTER reported that WILLLVM H. .MURPHY and MARTY RYi\N should be retained on the list of most eligible bachelors in Chicago and Buffalo respccti^ly. Both ED and P.VT VARREVETO be­came quite concerned over the absence of D.WE SNHTH from the list, thinking that he may have deserted the ranks oC bachelors, as did Pat a few years ago. When this was called to tlie attention of Dave, he responded in Ins usual cooperative spirit as follows: "What do you think would be the bet­ter course to pursue at this time — for me to marry* so that your list will be correct or for you to add my name to tlie group?'* Pat also called —niy attention to the omission of ARNOLD THOMA Vro m the list. Incidentally, Arnold spent some time with DAVE SMITH at Dave's home in Lake Worth, Fla. Dave, who sees GEORGE COURY occasion­aily, expressed the feeling that it is tlie duty of ever\-onc of our class to sec that George docs not do any loafing, but continues to work strenuously so that he can amass a goodly share of loot and repeat his generous act of last June. 
I am pleased to report that we have reduced our "Lost Men" list by one. LES FLEWELLING, who received his M..\. with us in 1928, lives at 10519 Khodcsia, Sunland, Calif. He is executive secretary of the Southern California State Dental Laboratory Society. He is president of the Sunland Democratic Club. Les was married in 1933 and has a son, age 

%li, and a daughter, age 12. CHARLES DUCEV, roommate of Les at N. D. 1926-28, and now with the K. of C. Supreme Council, sent Les my De­cember Newsletter. Les commented that the News­letter raised some nostalgic thoughts. He men* tioncd tliat the late BERT HAVEN was their neighbor in Walsh Hall and operated a "commer­cial" (fee, 10c) golf putting green through their suite, his own and the hallu'ay. I forwarded a let­ter from Les to EUGENE FARRELL, Editor of The Jersey Journal. Gene mentioned how pleased he was to hear from Les and commented, "because he was al^v-ays on the list of missing persons when you were out digging names and addresses, I feared possibly he had been lost somewhere in the w-ar," Les mentioned that JEROME HIGGINS is 
approbation officer with the State Adult Authority in Oakland, Calif., and TERRENCE HALLER.-\N is Regional Director, N.C.C.M. & U., of U.S.O., Santa Ana, Calif. Les indicated he would like to hear from JOHN CODY. PETE MERLONI, and WM. R. MURPHY. JOHN CODY and \VM. R. MURPHY arc on our "Lost Men" list. Can any­one send me their addresses? 
GEORGE KELLEY has an excellent article en­titled "Tlie Priest and the Secular Press" \%-hicli appeared in "The Homiletic and Pastoral Review," November 1958. The X.C.W.C. Bureau of Infor­mation considered the article so significant that they have issued reprints whicfi are available at 5c each from their headquarters in Washington, D. C. 

• George, as you know, is assistant managing editor of the Voungstown Vindicator. The late JACK L-WELL E wrote commenting on the reunion pro­motional mailings issued last year by several class­mates, including GEORGE KELLEV, as follows: "The fellows do a terrific job — the latest being one of the best editorial men in the countr>-, GEORGE KELLEV of the Youngstown Vindicator." QUENTIN \yiLDERMx\N is in business forliim­sclf as a public accountant in Altoona, Pa. His son, who was the first son of a "28cr" to graduate from Notre Dame, now is witli R.C.A. Whirlpool in St. Joseph, Micliigan. His daughter is in Ar­lington, Va. It was great to sec Quentin at our 30-year reunion. 
^ SYLVESTER MOBILY is a pharmacist and 
'manage r of the Standard Drug Store at East ISlst and Miles Avenue in Cleveland. He has two mar­ried daughters and a son at Bowling Green State University. 
EARL LAMBOLEV, who is an attorney in Mon-

l A CROSSE—The happy principals at the La Crosse Club UniTcrsal Notre Dame Night are (1. to r.) Steve Pavela, co-chairman; James Kroner, president; Rev. Louis Putz, G.S.C, guest speaker; Fred Funk, toastmaster, and Karl Schaettle, co^hzurman. 
roe. Wis., adriscd that HUGH HAYES, '29, who 
practiced law at Oregon, Wis., died very suddenly 
the past summer of a heart attack. Earl sees JOHN 
VOSS of Elkhorn, Wis., occasionally. 

BERNIE CAREER, who has a keen eye for spotting '28 news items, sent a clipping from a New York paper regarding a cinl suit involring a famous actor before Superior Judge MERVIN AGGELER in Santa Monica, Cal. Bemie com­mented that the court proceedings should not be dull. 
Comments regarding our 30th reunion arc still being received. The latest, from SU*EDE SCHROE­DER who practices law at Detroit Lakes, Minn., was as foIlou3: "A person would have to be overly gifted in semantics to come up with an adequate expression about the 30th reunion. In my humble way I can only say tliat it was terrific — so ter­rific that I will be present at all reunions as long as the good Lord permits." Swede also inquired about the *'cocktaiI game" for 1959, which will be the Northwestern game. Swede continued, "My two girls are at St. Catherine's in St. Paul. At the .-\nny game '28 class cocktail party while visiting with VIXCE GVRNEY and his wife, I learned that they too have a daughter at St. Kate's. That's not unusual, but to later discover that one of my girls and Vince's daughter are inseparable friends (indeed they were out together at the very mo­ment Vince and I were talking about them) dem­onstrated once again what a small world it is, for they never even dreamed that \nncc and I knew each other. Later I had an opportunity to take all the girls out for an evening — at tlie risk of bragging I must admit that they raise them much nicer nowadays." Swede also advised that he at­tended the funeral of the father of DENNY DALY and a proceeding w*hich the Bar Association con­ducted before the Court in memory of Denny's father. 
FaUier JIM McSR-VNE, S.J., who is at St. Malachy's Church in St. Louis, was with VINCE W.VLSH in Monticello, 111., for Christmas. Jim had just returned from giving retreats in Kansas City, Aberdeen, St. Louis and Decatur. Tlie St. Louis retreat was given for hoboes. BILL KIRWAN also dropped me a note as he was \isiting Vince at the time my December Newsletter arrived. I understand that Vince expected to have another eye operation. 
Father ANDY MULRE.\NEY, C.S.C., wrote from St. Patrick's Rectory in South Bend, Indiana, after he had returned from Nevv Orleans and Galveston 
where he spent the Christmas holiday's. Father Andy 
mentioned that Judge BOB GR.ANT is doin; his 
usual good work on the Federal bench. He com­
mented on JACK L.AVELLE as follows: "Jack was 
not only a great Notre Dame man, but a real 
booster for the Class 1928, as evidenced by his help 
in our 30th reunion. We shall miss him. &fayGod 
take this great soul to Himself." 
I made a check of the current N. D. student 

directory and spotted 43 sons of *28 men. Two class­
mates. Dr. .MARCUS FARRELL and DICK PHE­
LAN, each have tvvo sons there. The list of class­
mates, with the number in parentheses indicating 
the year in college, having sons at N. D. is as fol­
lows: 
In Arts and Letters: JLM ALL.AX (3); JOE BAIRLEY (4); GORDON BENNETT (I); ROGER BRESLIN (4); DON CORBETT (3); Ba L CRO­NIN (2); BOB GR.AHAM (4); ALBION GRIFFIN (4); GUY LORANGER (1); JOHN McMUION (2); ORVILLE MURCH (2); DICK PHELAN (3) and (4); BUD TOPPING (2); MIKE RICKS (2); LEO ROZUM (2); WALT TOUSSAINT (4). 
In Science: BERNIE BIRD (2); HENRY HAS­LEV (4); MARCUS FARRELL (2) and (4); E.\RL L.\.MBOLY (I). 
In Commerce: FRANK CREADON (3); ENflkfET DOHANY (3); BILL DOWD.ALL (4); CHRISTIE FL.AN*N.-\G.AN (3); PETE G.4LLAGHER (1); JOE HILGER (3); GUS JENlwINS (4); BILL KEAR­NEY (2); ED McKEOWN (3); JOHN McSORLEY (1). 
In Engineering: JACK CANIZARO (2); CHAR­U £ CASH (3); JLM KEARNS (3); GERALD LUD\VIG (3); JOE MORRISSEY (2); ED PHIL­BIN (1); GEORGE SCHEUER (2); CHARLES SCHUESSLER (4); DICK TRANT (4). 
In Law: FRANaS BEGG.AN (deceased) (2). Please let me know if any names were inad­vertently omitted. A friend of mine from Connecticut reports that CHARLES DUCEV is stHI with the Knights of Columbus in New Haven, Conn . He is also a part­ner in an arena skate shop in New Haven.' His daughter, who has degrees from Goudier College and Yale Uni\'ezsity, is now a research assistant at Yale University. Charley is very active in com­munity organizations, having served as president of the New Haven Community Chest, and the .Tra­velers' Aid Society and Chairman of the Ibmdcn Library Board. I noted in a pi^lication of St. Joseph's College Institute of Public Relations in Philadelphia a pic-
NotTe Dame Alumnus, /«"*, ^959 33 
turc of CHARLES SHORT who teaches "The Law 
of Industrial Relations" there. Tlie fximmcnt is 
made that *'Mr. Short is not only an able attor­
ney, but a sound ethical philosopher, alert to ac­
count for psychological and sociological factors." 
In America under the caption "Top Writer," I 
noted that JOSEPH A. BREIG, assistant managing 
editor of the Cleveland Universe-Bulletin won a 
first in the "running news slorv" catcgor>' for his 
reporting of the "Right-to-Work" amendment de­
bated in Ohio last Xo\"cmber. TIic Cleveland News­
paper Guild makes awards each year for the best 
newspaper work appearing in newspapers published 
in Cleveland. Two years ago Joe received the 
award for the "best single news stor\-." Con­
gratulations, Joe, and best wishes for continued 
success. 
FRANK CREADON and JL\f ALLAN reported that they saw the following fellow classmates at the Junior Class Parents week end at Notre Dame in Marcli: JI.M KEARNS, JOE HILGER, ED Mc-KEOWN, and DICK PHELAN. FRANK CRE.\­DON also mentioned that his son and BILL DOW-DALL's boy are to be in Boston with the Notre Dame Glee Club for a concert soon. Frank was in the hospital with a heart condition when I u-as in Chicago a few months ago. ED BRENNAN is an­other Chicagoan who was hospitalized recently. VINCE CARNEY has been ill also. The latest re­port I have is that Frank, Ed, and \'incc arc back on the job. 
I had cood sessions in Washington recently w-ith BILL JONES and BILL COYNE. Bill Jones, who practices law in Washington, has a daughter at Newton College of the Sacred Heart In the Boston area. Bill Coyne, who is with Housing and Home Finance, lias a son who is graduating at the Uni­versity of Maryland in June. He expects to con­tinue there in the medical scliool. 
PAT Q-VNNY reported that he met the following Notre Dame men at J.ACK L.\VELLE's funeral: Fathers LOUIS THORNTON, CS.C. and FRAN­CIS J. BOL.\ND, CS.C; R^\Y MOCK, VIC FISCHER, JOE ABBOTT, BILL (TURK) KELLY, BERNIE GARBER, "BUS" REDG.VTE, JIM DW\TR, RED SMFFH, JIM QUINN, JOHN LAW, GEORGE ROHRS, TIM TOOMEV, JOE SHE.-\, JI.M CARROLL, HENRY FREY, DAN HALPIN, TI.M O'ROURKE, WALTER KENNE­DY, JIM WHITE, GEORGE AVINKLER, JOE FRIEL, JOE BYRNE, Sr., JOE BYRNE, Jr., JOHN ANTUS, WARREN FOGEL, JIM McGOLDRICK, TOMMY FARRELL, Dr. JERRY H.AYES, GREG RICE, and HUGH DEVORE. Pat commented *'Jack was a faithful friend to all of us and un­questionably had more sincere Ilfc-long friends than anyone that I've ever known. We will all miss him. especially his wonderful family." Pat concluded as follows: *'I had been to the football game with Jack when he scouted the Cleveland Browns and the Washington Red Skins here in Clevrlatid on the Sunday just prior to his dcatli. He appeared in good health and, of course, in good spirits. As you probably know, he had just gone to Confession in preparation for First Friday only a few hours before he died. As a matter of fact, the same priest who heard his Confession about 4:00 p.m. gave him the last rites at 9:10 p.m. that evening. Wouldn't We be lucky if all of us could be assured of being so blessed? I think that the good Lord was in need of a masterful M. C at some of Iiis special banquets in heaven which is probably the reason He took Jack up with Him so early. I hope that all of his friends continue to remember him in their prayers as I know Jack \vill remember all of us." 
Tlianks to BERNIE GARBER, I believe you all received a letter from the Jack Lavellc Fund, 1600 Broadway, Room 300, New York 19, N.Y. It is not too late to contribute to this fund. Bemic ad­vised tliat tlie proceeds from the Army-Nolrc Dame basketball game were donated to the Lavellc Fund. TIM TOOMEY reports that Jack*s son John, age 11, w'ill spend the summer at the camp of the New York Giants football team. 
I had a good session witli our Class President, JIM ALLAN, in Boston recently. Jim purcliascd Addressograph plates for the class for use in our mailings. Thanks, Jim, for this favor. He men­tioned the great job done by JOE MORRISSEY in getting the names of all those who attended the verj* crowded Army game class cocktail party last year. The number attending these parties has been increasing each year. JJm has made arrangements for adequate space in the pri\-atc Faculty Dining Room on the campus for our next '28 fJass crocktail party to be held October 24 following the North­western game. Make plans now for attending by ordering tickets for the Northwestern game. Fami­lies and guests of *28 men who accompany tJiem to the game are inWtcd to join them at the party. 
34 Notre Dame Alumnus, June. 1959 
WILLIAM F. CRAIG, '29 Off-Camera Citizen 
Voted Eastern Indiana's Notre Dame Man of the Year 1959 \ras William F. Craig, Sr., an intensely active citizen of Muncie, Ind., for more than two decades. 

Bill is vice-president, commercial man­ager, film buyer, etc., for the Tri-City Radio Corporation, which operates WLBC Radio and Television in Muncie, maintaining a high level of family entertainment with such public ser\*ices as educational pro­gramming with local college personnel and telecasting Little League baseball from a station-owned field. 
He has been general chairman of the United Fund of Delaware County twice, including the 1958 campaign when Bill's direction was so successful that the goal was oversubscribed by $60,000 in spite of a business recession and the loss of an ex­ecutive secretary in mid-campaign. At pres­ent he is scr\-ing as chairman of a new Chamber of Commerce committee looking to Muncic's urban development. 
Bill is a member of St. Lawrence Church: Past Navigator of the Fourth Degree. Knights of Columbus; a member of the Delaware Country* Club, Muncie Club, the Rotar>-, Elks and Moose. He is past direc­tor of the Indiana Broadcasters' Association,, vice-president and director of the Muncic Chamber of Commerce and works hard as a city chairman for the Notre Dame Foun­dation. 
His family consists of his wife Ann and 10 children: Bill, Jr. (father of three boys); Marjorie (Mrs. Allen) Steinke, Denver, Colo.; Patricia (Mrs. Robert) Stough, Muncie: and Mike, Bob, Tom, Joe, Don, Jim and Tim Craig. With all these re­sponsibilities Bill seeks relaxation as an air­plane pilot and dedicated golfer. 
Tliesc parties are vcrv- popular, as they arc our only 
class get-togethers which include the wives of class­
mates. •* 
The Notre Dame Club of New York City wishes" 
to thank those members of the Class of *28 who 
have contributed to the Jack Lavelle Fund, as it 
wasn't possible to write each one individually. As 
of April 1 the '28 contribution totaled SI250.00. 
Our President. JIM .ALLAN, commented as fol­
lows on the Class report on Foundation contribu­
tions during 1958 whicli appeared in the Spring 
issue of Notre Dame magazine: "It looks as though 
the '28ers stack up pretty well with the rest of 
the classes as regards both the percentage of don­

ors and the amount contributed. There are only six 
classes with a better percentage than ours and six 
with a greater total. I hope we will be first in 

both categories when tlie report comes out for 1959.'^ 
HENRY HASLEY, master of Indiana's Northern^ District K. of C , came up to South Bend from Fort Wayne lo preside at two-day exemplification ceremonies where 104 received the Fourth Degree. ED KRAUSE, '34, toastmastcred the closing dinner. 
JOE DEBOTT advised me of the death of JO­SEPH A. H.\NEY (Obligato) of Newark, N.Y., on April 16 following an operation in Rochester, N.Y. Joe had been a practicing attornty in Newark, for a number of years and ser\'ed for six years as Wayne County District .Attorney from 1951-1957. Joe, who was 51 years of age. serxed in the U. S. .\rmy and U. S. Navy from 1943 to 1945. He re­ceived his law degree from Fordhani University in 1930. Joe was past president of the Wayne Count>^ Bar .'Vssociation. His only surx'ivors are two broth-V ers. George and Thomas. Joe was always interested in the Class of 1928 and returned for our 25-year reunion. He was most cooperative whenever I called upon him for news. Tlic last time I heard from Joe he indicated he would like to hear from RUSSELL RILEY and TO.M TR.\UGHBER. Joe roomed with DON HENNESSEY, '29, while an un­dergraduate at Notre Dame. I have asked our treasurer, TOM HART, to arrange with Father .MULRE.VNY, CS.C, to offer a Mass for Joe. Please remember him in your prayers. 
EDWARD P. .McGUIRE, who received his LL.B. with us in 1928, died in Chicago on .April 2, 1959, after having been ill for three months. I used to see Ed regularly when I lived in Chicago, as he^h was an attorney for tlic Securities and Exchange «»•' Commission in the same building with me at 105 
W. Adams Street. Ed was always interested in the cla-ss and attended our 20-year reunion. He is sur­vived by his wife Alice and a son and a daughter. Ed's sister. Dr. M. Ruth McGuire. died just two weeks prior to Ed's death. DICK QUINL/\N ad­vised me of Ed's death and represented the Class of '28 at the funeral home. Ed is the third 1928 
LL.B. man .who has died within the last nine months. The olhen* are -MAURICE COUGHLIN and BERT HAVEN. I am asking our Treasurer, TOM HART, to arrange to have a Mass oiFercd for Ed by Fatlier Jim ^IcShane, S.J. 
JUNE I2-I3-I4^ 
fMmm I. 

1 92 9 Larry Stauder Engineering BIdg. Notre Dame, Indiana 
"Lany, I expect to attend our 30th Reunion. It will be my first since graduation, I regret to say,'* wTites JACK P. FARR, 80 Harrison Ave., Baldwin, 
N.Y. He continues: "I will call several other Long Islanders. . . I would like to meet with Band mem­bers and B.C.S. course members." Jack is with the American Tobacco Co., 150 E. 42nd St., N.Y. 
JOE LENIHAN "sited the campus recently and as usual had several excellent ideas on Class ac­tirities. He, WALT MULFUR and others have suggested that the presence of REV. CHRISTO­PHER J. OTOOLE, CS.C, Superior General, and ^ JOHN F. CARDINAL O'HARA, CS.C, on the ^,i campus at the time of our Class Reunion, would ' add immeasumbly to its success. Your Secretary agrees, but unfortunately the contents of a recent letter from Rome is partially as follows: *'It was thoughtful of you to send on information about 
KENTUCKY—Thomas E. BuUeit (right) receives a scroll naming him the Ken­tucky Club's Notre Dame Man of the Year from Club President Leo J. Brown (left) and Brother Thomas More, principal of St. 

^iKaWer High School and U.N.D. Night speaker. 
tlie 1959 Class Kciinions. I still remember with great joy llie reunion of the Class of '29 in 1954. Unfortunately, it appears, at the present time, that it would be extremely diflicult, if not impossible, for nic to attend the reunion which you arc plan­ning for June. In any case, you will know tliat, although absent from Notre Dame, I am most keen­ly interested in evervthing which concerns the Class of 1929." (Signed) CHRISTOPHER OTOOLE, 

TU Thank you sincerely. Father, for your interest. We will continue to hope that you will be with us. Tile Alumni Office relavs the sad news of ihe ' June 19, 1958, death of PAUL L. (BUD) CI^XRK. Mrs. Clark resides at 205 Cochran Road, Lexing­ton 18, Ky. \Vc will remember Paul In our prayers. 
FRfVXK HEUPEL has followed up reunion pro­motion for the PIi.B's and Ph.D^s by a letter which has, I trust, by now brought him numerous replies. One proposal made is that this group have a Sat­urdav luncheon together. 
JOE NASH, like FR.\NK HEUPEL, from Chi­cago, is working similarly for the Ph.B.C's. If tlie interest of these '29eni is duplicated by others wc will have an excellent attendance. Should you wi.'-h 

^^ o contact Joe, 'phone him or write him at 4920 V^Vashington BU'd., Chicago 44. 
We hear periodically from DR. JOHN VAICHU­LIS of the Chicago Board of Health. John fre­quently visits with his son (who Iixs been accepted by the U. of Chicago School of Medicine in the fall) on the N. D. campus and is usually contrib­uting to Notre Dame of his time and cnerg>* by way of encouraging good high school students to make application for admission. 
We regret that BILL SIDENFADEN of Suburban Gas Service, Pomona, Calif., has a conflict which will prevent attendance at the reunion. We will miss you. Bill . j\mong those who do plan to at­tend are: ROBERT ALT, vice-president of Mc­

^tfnerncy Spring and Wire Co., Grand Rapids 2, 
^vlich.; DICK HAUGH, who orders a size lYs cap; PAUL HOLAH.-\N of Cleveland; LOUIS CLE.\!­ENTS of Owensboro, Ky.; REV. OTIS WINCHES­TER, pastor of St. Agnes' Church, Elyria, O.; also 
J. H/VRVEY DALEY, management consultant, of Washington, D.C., who will contact L.\RRY MOORE and JOHN HINKEL. 
News from insurance man FRt\NCIS J. BUSK­LEY of Canonsburg, Pa., is likewise that he will be present in June. EDWARD DONOHOE, em­ployed by J. A. Kindel Co., Cincinnati, plans to attend, xs do H:\NK BURNS of the Ranburn Co., Inc., Tonawanda, N.Y., and BOB WILLIA.MS of Washington, D.C., and ED DEB.AENE of Detroit. 
CLYDE BUNKER of Green Bay, Wis., has hopes 
pleasure of being with you. You know how mucli 
I would like to share this reunion with you and 
with the other members of our class. Even though 
I may not be able to be with you, all of you will 
share in my prayers, especially during these days 
of reunion.*' 
FETE MORG.AN, track coach at Princeton, writes: *'.At the moment I cannot make definite plans for attending the Class Reunion. The Na­tional Collegiate Track Championships arc in Lin­coln. Neb., that week end. I may have a quarter-miler who will qualify to compete. My plans will be Influenced by this conflict." 
Others expected in June arc CLAUDE HOR­NING, LOUIS HANEY, JOHN COLANGELO, ED GARRIT\% JAMES P. KENNEDY, OLIVER SCHELL, JOHN BROU-N and FRED WAGNER. 
CHARLES H.\YES SMFTH and Mrs. Smith, for­
merly of Los .Angeles. Calif., have for reasons of 
his Illness returned to Denver, Colo., where Charles 
is in a sanatorium. You may address correspond­
ence to 1117 S. Vine St., Denver 10; please re­
member him in your prayers. It was necessary for 
Charles to give up his position with the Internal 
Revenue Bureau in Holly^vood. 
We extend to ANGELO P. GALDABINI, Mrs. 
Galdabinl and son James and Tliomas the svmpathy 
of the Class of '29 for the ^[arcll 29 death of Pvt. 
John E. Galdobini. 22, at Fort Leonard Wood, Mo., 
of spinal meningitis. John was the nephew of 
GENE GALDABINL 
REV. LOUIS THORNTON, C.S.C., and GAY­LORD H.V:\S were among the '29ers who attended the April funeral of CHARLES ROHR, '30. in Cleveland. Charles had many close friends in our class. His passing was a shock to us. We will re­member him and his family In our prayers. 
JIM KENNEDY of Sola Electric Co., Chicago, writes this news of his family of twelve: "The two oldest sons have been graduated, one Is in the Army and the other doing graduate work at De Paul. Elizabeth Is a senior at Lewis College (Lock­port, III.) working toward a B.S. in Industrial .\rls—aviation. She is a licensed pilot as well as participating in other extracurricular activities. Second oldest daughter is in third year of nurses training at St. Elizabeth's Hospital, Chicago. Tom is in his third year at Holy Cross Semlnarv*, La Crosse. Wis. Bob Is in his first year at Quiglcy Preparatory Semlnar>". Five are in grade school at St. Margaret Mar>-, Chicago, and Kevin, 3, is too young for school, too old to be confined in a play pen, too active to be on his own. Swell little fel­low, but quite a problem." 
If you are on the point of planning which home football game you will attend next fall you might like to know that tentative plans for a get-together of '29ers and wives are already being considered for immediately after the Na\y game. Most of those who attended the after-.Army game reception last fall have Indicated a preference of the Nax-y game for any proposed repeat of a Class of '29 get-together. 

"Public Administration" is the title of a new book by P.\UL C. BARTHOLO.MEW, professor of political science at Notre Dame. 
Contrarv- to the rosters, BERNARD E. LOSH­BOUGH has been back from New Delhi, India, for years and is head man at .-VCTION-Housing, Inc., Number One Gateway Center, Pittsburgh 22, Pa. 
Congratulations to BILL CRAIG, a "Spotlight Alumnus" in this Issue. 
HUGH J. McMANIGAL has again come through for us. He has mailed some 130 letters to class­mates promoting attendance at the June reunion. Thank you, Hugh. Regards, LARRY STAUDER, Class Secretary. 
193 0 ^^^^ Plunliett O'Shaughncssy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
From the Alimmi Office: His classmates deeply grieve the death o£ CHUCK ROHR, popular Cleveland restaurateur, a selfless patron and promoter of Notre Dame activities la his .home town and a director of the Alumni As* social ioil. Heartfelt sympathy is extended to his widow and chil­dren, and your con­tinuing prayers are appreciated. Congratulations to ANDREW LOVE, re­cently appointed as vice-president of West­ern Union Telegraph Company. He will continue as comptrol­ler of the company, a position he has held since 1957. A week after an unusual and closely contested election in which prox>* \'oting was permitted for the first time, JOSEPH LORDI, former N. D. sec­ond baseman and 1937 national squash champion, was installed as president of the New York Ath­letic Club in January. Joe, who owns the Petro­leum Heat and Power Co. of Newark, N. J., joined the Winged Foot Club as an athletic member 28 years ago. Ir is the second time in the 91-ycar history of the club that a former athletic, member acliieved the presidency, Joe had been ^^ce-presi­dent for three years. 
On Sunday, March 15, 1959, the sung of defeat for the Universlt>''s quiz team at the hands of some highly cerebral lassies from Columbia's Bar­nard College on the CBS-TV "College Bowl" was softened somewhat by the appearance of another Notre Dame man, DR. RAYMOND J. SPAHR, with a fascinating scientific development on the same network's "AVhat's My Line." Ray, who fol­lowed up his Bachelor of Science In 1930 with a Ph.D. in chemistry in 1933, puzzled the panel with his specialty, research on a pinless diaper. 
1931 James T. Doylc "' " 902OaktonSt. Evanston, Ulinob 
From the Alumni Office: Classmate:: will sorely miss a distinguished repre­sentative in 'the Congregation of Holy Cross wlio died April 18 after months of terrible suffering bonie cheerfully and heroically. FATHER RICH­ARD D. MURPHY, C.S.C., for many years a scientist-priest and teacher of physics at Notre 
^pfas do we) that events will favor his attendance at 
•-•nis 30lh reunion. MIAMI—^At the Annual Communion Breakfast in the Top o* the Columbus the head table Wc quote from REV. JAMES E. NORTO.V, featured (I. to r.) William B. Welch, secretary; W. Dan Rowlands, second vice president; 
CS.Ct in a recent letter: "I deeply appreciate 


Charles £. Maher, president; Bishop Coleman F. Carroll, guest of honor; Rev. Joseph M. 
receiving the material on the 1959 Reunion. . . . 

From the way It looks now, I will not have the McLaughlin; James A. Smith, first vice president, and Arthur Bergen, treasurer. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 35 
Dame, Portland and St, Edward's Universilics, had 
as liis last obedience the difficult office of Director 
of Admissions at Xotre Dame, whicli he performed 
with cool efficiency-. Last year he accepted witli 
nianelous resignation tlie netvs tliat he liad an in­
curable mah'gnano' whicli numbered Iiis days on 
earth. His Ixst weeks were miracles of edifying 
courage and cheer. Sympathy is extended to Father 
Murphy's brother and sister in liis native Anderson, 
Indiana. 
Double congratulations to PAUL CUSHING on 
his eh-ction in January' to tlie Board of Directors 
of the N. D. .Alumni ,f\ssociatinn and liis subsequent 
appointment lo tlie University's Advisory* Council 
for Science and Engineers. Since 1939 Paul, a civil 
engineer, has been president of Oakland's Hydraulic 
Dredging Co., Ltd., having previously 5cr\'cd the 
firm as chief engineer. He has been on campus 
frequently to visit his student son. 
LEO J. KLETZLY, SR., profiled in this issue, has reason for pride in Iiis two X. D. sons, Ernest, '57, married in April, and Lee, '58, sooa to be graduated from St. Charles Seminary and assigned to the .-Vmcricaii College In Rome. Leo and others arc keeping up a Class tradition by patronizing the magazine subscription scr\*icc of JIAI ^Ic-QUAID, P.O. Box 21, Xlncennes, Ind. 
REV. .\LAURICE FITZGER^VLD, C.S.P., is striv­ing mightily at the Paulist Fathers Home Study School (21 E. Van Buren St., Chicago 5, III.), but his thoughts and prayers often return to .Alma Mater. 
Scr\'ing as director of personnel for New De­parture Division of General Motors Corporation is JOSEPH H. ROBINSO.V. Joe was graduated from 
Notre Dame with an 
LL.B. degree in 1931. He became a member of Blue Circle, Uni­versity honorary so­ciety. 
A member of the 
Notre Dame Club of 
Connecticut Valley, 
Joe is active in sev­
eral organizations in 
Connecticut, including 
the Knights of Colum­
bus and Bristol Cham­
ber of Commerce. 
Married and the father of two children he has his home at 14 Ridgebrook Drive, West Hartford, Conn. 
DO.NALD OTOOLE, president of the Pullman Trust & Savings Bank, Chicago, and head of the Calumet Region Congress, was elected president of the Mississippi Valley Association February 3 at Its 
•lOth annual convention in St. Louis, Mo. 
It is the first time in the 40-year history of the association lliat a Clilcagoan was' elected to the post. The action is Interpreted as recognition of the importance of the forthcoming opening of the St. Lawrence Scaivay. 
Don is also president of the Standard State Bank, Chicago, Slate Bank of Blue Island, Blue Inland, III., and a director of tlie Chicago .Association of Commerce and Industry, 
He had formerly ser\'ed on the executive com­mittee and was co-cliairman of the Great Lakes Di­\-ision of the MVA. Don's interest and knowledge of the inland waler^vays system and of Lake Cal­umet Harbor have aided greatly in the develop­ment of Qiicago as an international trans-shipping point. 
1932 ^^^^ ^' CoUins 
3336 Kcnmorc Road Shatcr Heights, Ohio 
Wc were saddened to learn of the death of Father VINCENT P. BRENNAX on March 24. He had been in the Pittsburgh Diocese since his or­dination in 1936, and at the time of his death he was pastor of the Holy Sepulclicr Churdi in Glade Mills, Pa. As well as being a iinc priest, he was a wonderful fellow and friend. A former member of the Alumni Board of Directors, he continued be­ing active in University affairs until recently. He is greatly missed by his classmates and parishioners. 
DON RY/\X writes that his only daughter, Lani, has entered the Convent and Is now in California. Don expects her to be transferred to the ^fothcr house in Philadelphia this spring u-liere, in addition to her religious work, she will continue her studies of medicine. 
It was good to see DICK M.AHOXEY at the Rockne Communion Breakfast in Cleveland after so many years. He is living in a suburb of Cleve­
36 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June, 1959 

NEW HAVEN—Edward A. Byrne (left). New Haven teacher, receives a scroll naming him "Notre Dame Man of the Year" from Club President Joseph Benoit (right), as guest speaker Dr. Albert E. Burke looks on at Neu* Haven Club U.N.D. Night ceremonies. 
land, Timbcrlakc, and is an executive at Thomp­son Ramo AVooIdridge, Inc. Dick has not clianged much but has taken on some weight; even BILL V.\X ROOY referred to him as Fatty, and MIKE CRAWFORD prescribed what he should do about it. 
.Among the recent changes of addresses are: PETE STREB to 183 Crestview Drive, Massillon, Ohio; REV. MERLE V. BALDWIN, S.J., to Holy Face Church, Great Mills, Md.; GEORGE KASSIS to 4240 Lush Drive, Sacramento 25, CallL; LEO XEW­M/\X to 220 E, Jefferson, South Bend; DR. CHAR­LIE X.ASH to 508 \V, Milwaukee Street, Jancs­vllle, Wis.: MURR.AY RUSSELL to 625 Madison .Ave., New York 22, N.V.; TO.M FEELY to 800 S. Ridge Road, Lake Forest, III.; ED M. O'CONNOR to 420 Waller Ave., Buffalo, .N.Y.; AL BR^VSSEUR to 140 X. Varsitv Drive, South Bend; and LOU PSEXCIK to 1109 Cecelia St., Taylor, Texas. JACK C(\RXEY*s mail addressed to 17 Evergreen Ave., Hartford, Conn,, has been returned unclaimed. 
From the Alumni Ofllce: DR. DOXALD B. KILLLAX has been appointed an assistant director of sales for the Du Pont Pig­ments Department. He joined Du Pont in 1936 as a chemist In the Researcli Division of the Ammonia Depart­ment at the Experi­mental station near Wilmington. In 1941 Dr. Killian moved lo Xcwark, N. J., as a chemist in the Pigments Depart­ment's plant there, and in 1945 he be­came a group leader in researcli. He was appointed manager of the color research sec­tion in 1949 and, two years later, was promoted to sales manager for pigment colors. In 1956 he was transferred to white pigments as sales manager. In 1936 he received a degree of doctor of philo­sophy in organic chemistry. He lives at 1407 Gilpin .Avenue, Wilmington. 
RAY GEIG£R> the Maine manufacturer (paper specialties) and president of the state's X. D. Club, is a busy man. Activities include sponsorship of an X. D. Glee Club concert in Maine; appearances as editor of the Farmers Almanac on the Art Link-letter, Jack Paar and Don McXeill shows; and a trip to Europe this month, xvherc Ray hopes tlir^. rural origins of Pope John XXHI may reflect in a"^ papal blessing on his Farmer's Almanac 
GILBERT P. AUGUSTIXE lias served as chair­man of the Human Relations Commission of Pertli Amboy, X'. J., since its organization In 1951. For­merly a personnel man for the ^Vmerican Smelting and Refining Co., Gil assisted in the assimilation of 5,000 Puerto Ricans in his community of 42,000; served as special consultant to the Dept. of Edu­cation for the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and other groups with minority problems. He has writ­ten several pamphlets, the last being reports on training programs he has conducted at the Deten­tion Home and Workhouse in Middlesex County. 
EDWARD A. EVERETT succeeded GERALD A. ^ KAMM , '44, as president of Catholic Social Services -*'" in St. Joseph County, Indiana. 
192 2 Joseph A. McCabc 17^ ^ 2215 Lincohi Evanston, Illinois 
From the /Vlumni Oflicc: Out East AL DO.MBROWSKY, a faithful reader of the ALUMNUS, writes that reading it " b almost like a visit on campus." Al was un­able to moke the Silver Jubilee Reunion last year but rislted w*ith his family two summers ago and ^ *'was truly amazed at the wonderful changes. -^ Progress sure is a reality," ,Al wrote that the fam­ily **will make another trip to Chicago this com­ing August, God willing, to visit our daughter. Sis­ter Mary Alfredine, S.S.C., and hope to spend a day or so on campus." 
MICHAEL R. KOKEX has been named vice-president in charge of the steel division of Tucker Freight Lines, Inc., in South Bend. Mike has been with Tucker 20 years, most recently as gen­eral sales manager. He played on the 1929-30 national cliamplonshlp football teams, also coached and played with the pros. He was wounded In France ser\'ing in artillery in \Vorld War II. 
PADRE IXNOCEXCIO STACCO, O. Cist., "at-^ taclied to an Austrian community for missionaryv work in an abandoned part of Bolivia," sees no .Americans for years at a time, likes to read about his old friends. His address is Ccmvento de los CIs­tercienscs, Apolo, Caupollcan, Bolivia. 
IS 
103 4 ^' ^^^^"'^ Carey 

^ 18843 Inglcwood Ave. ^ Rocky River 16, Ohio 
From the Alumni Office: After numerous conferences Secretary ED G:\REY and Local Chairman BOB &\H1LL think they have a wonderful program lined up for the 25th Reun­ion. TIic Silver Jubileers will start with a cocktail party and jubilee dinner in the faculty facilities upstairs in the old South Dining Hall. There will be a brief speaking program (if somebody can muz­zle ED KR^MJSE), then sandwiches and small talk into the wee hours in Lyons Hall. The Class Memorial Mass will be celebrated at 9 a.m. Sat­urday in the Lyons Chapel by Father JIM MOS­COW, Senior Class President and now Director of ^ilatholic Hospitals, jVrchdioccse of Chicago. Father tUlESBUKGH will host a President's Luncheon for the Class on Saturday in the midst of golf, guz­zling and gatherings in tlic Colleges. All tins plus the Saturday night .Mumni Banquet and Sunday Mass at the Grotto. All hope that DR. JAMES EDWARD Mc\L\X­AMOX will be there on his way back to Knox Col­lege. Jim, an associate professor of modern lan­guages at Knox, has enjoyed a year's leave to teacJi at tlie Technical Institute of Monlere>% Mex. He has an M.A. from Washington and a Ph.D. from Illinois. Also expected is ED FITZMAURICE, recently made vice-president of the Perkins Divi­sion of General Foods Corporation. Word was just received on the death of JOHN J. O'CONNOR in Kansas City on April 24. Re-Aneniber him in your prayers and at the Reunion Mass. 
192 5 Franklyn C. Hochreitcr ** 702 Scarlett Dr. Towson 4, Maryland 

From the Alnmni Office: Sad tidings concerning the families of two loyal *35crs who have served long and faithfully with the Notre Dame Clnbs. The deepest sympathy of all their classmates will go out to ARMOND "MONK" ALBO, who lost his 11-year-old daughter Nanc>­Alice in Januar>- following an operation for cor­^^cction of a heart defect, and to TOM HILS, ^^.vhose mother, Mrs. Elizal)eth Hils, died in March at the age of 78 in the Scotia, N.Y., home of his sister Mrs. Charles Luckhurst, leaving two other brothers, Frank and William of Schenectady, N.V. Monk is president of the Spokane Club and Tom is a mainstay and former "^tan of the Year" of the New Haven, Conn., group. 1935 may be the clubbicst class in the N.D. sys­tem; the remaining news, in a happier vein, con­cerns the triumphs of other all-round organization men. Class Secretary- FR.\NK HOCHREITER, a perennial toiler for the Baltimore Club, may still be recovering from the Navy game rally he staged last fall and the Class questionnaire he distributed ^k'n the spring, but it hasn't slowed his other activi­^^es , viz., a new title (Cliief, Progress Control, Re­newal Operations, Baltimore Urban Renewal and Housing Agency) and a new show (directing and playing a police inspector in the Vagabond Players production of the French chiller "Monique") with rave reviews from all the Balto critics, natch. Bouquets arc also in order, on several counts, for genial JIM SHEILS. Long famed as a fabulous family man, a pillar of the N.D. Club of New York and since last year a director of the national Alum­ni ^Vssociation, Jim was honored as New York's "Notre Dame Man of the Year" at the Club's Uni­versal Notre Dame Night Dinner Dance at the Park Lane Hotel in April. Since January 1 lawyer-broker Jim has been a full partner in the Wall ^jStrcct firm of Grcgorj" & Sons. ""' AVell known to Notre Dame in Houston, Texas, is Father TO.M CEMON, pastor of St. Michael's Churcli. Maybe you saw Dale Francis' Our Sunday Visitor stor>*, condensed in ilie Catholic Digest, on Father Tom. Called *'Still Kneeling in the Bean 
LEO J. KLETZLY, '31 Tribute to a Tireless Trucker 
In an article called "Kudo for Kletzly" 

the Suburbanezvs magazine announced that 
the board of directors for Suburban Motor 
Freight, Inc., had elected general traffic 
manager Leo J. Klctzly of Columbus, Ohio, 
to a vice-presidency, the second man to 
achieve that office in 43 years. 
A native of Wheeling, W. Va., Leo has 

been in trucking since graduation {cum 
laude), first with a Wheeling local carrier. 
Joining Suburban in 1939, he was succes­
sively a rate clerk, office manager and man­
ager of the Wheeling terminal before trans­
fer to the Columbus home office in 1944. 
Appointed traffic manager four years later, 
he became a special accounts representative 
and general traffic manager of both firms 
when Suburban acquired Liberty Highway 
Co. two years ago. 
The article noted Leo's gregarious charm, his tirclcssncss and his "passion for lending himself to movements in the interest of underprivileged children." but it could list only a fraction of his quiet efforts for Church, family and community: charter membership and recent vice-presidency in the Scrra Club (his work for vocations is matched by pride in his son, brother, aunts, etc., in the religious life): parish chairman­ship and board membership in the Retreat League: labors in drives for Catholic orphanages and high schools; the Big Brother .\ssociation (his first "little brother" is now an N.D. grad) ; perennial activity in the United .Appeal, and local trusteeship in the Kiwanis, all this (which made him Co­lumbus "N.D. Man of the Year" a few years ago) he assumes is the minimum to be expected of a Notre Dame man. .-V close friend confides: "You cannot know him without being a little better yourself." 
Married 25 years, Leo and Marcelle Kletzly have three children: Ernest, '57, re­cently married; Lee, '58, a seminarian bound for Rome, and Marceline, a soph at Marian College. 
Patch," it tells how Tom Cemoa returned as a priest to the same land he tended as a boy. be­cause of the example and encouragement of sev­eral other priests, among them JOHN CARDINAL O'HARA. 
193 A Kobcrt F. Ervin ' ''" ' 1329 Kensington Rd. Grossc Pointc Park, Mich. 
From the Alumni Office: Secretary BOB ERVIX \*-anU the Class to know that this edition or the '36 news is thin because his deadline came and went before the last ALUM­NUS issue was circulated. Conscientious Bob reports difiiculty "getting the guys to write unless they have a column to stimulate them." You could rem­edy this situation by dropping Bob a line about you and your buddies whenever the spirit moves you. WILLL\M R, BOWES has joined the Massa­chusetts >(utual Life Insurance Co. Bill is a rep­resentative in the Chicago office. WILLLAM L. STRUCK teamed up with three other Dayton at­torneys in April. Tlie new partnership Is Demann, Wasscrman, Miller & Struck, Suite 702, Harries Bldg., Dayton, O. Bill followed up his B.C.S. with an LL.B. in '37. From the freshman year you may remember a Milwaukcean named FRED­ERICK HEIDER whose yen to be an actor made him quit to Join Chicago's Goodman Theater. He has made quite a name for himself since as pro­ducer of ABC-T\'^s ''Voice of Firestone," the man who made the controversial decision to switch the famous musical program to a mLxture of classical and popular music. Last — but a long way from least — congratulations to fabulous footballer BILL SHAKESFEi\RE on his election to a vice-presidency of Cincinnati Rubber Manufacturing Co. Another '36 football ace, KEN' STILLEY, is di\iding his time between cliores as mayor of Clairton, Pa., and manager of player personnel for the Pittsburgh Stcclers. 
1 09 7 Joseph P. Quinn ^ P. O. Box 275, Lake Lcnapc Andover, N. J. 
Your Secretary is proud to add some new names 

to his correspondents this time. Fellows the coluthn 
hasn't been able to report on for a long time. 
BILL MULREX.VX of Remington Rand Electric Shaver leads the list this time wth a fine letter from Bridgeport, Conn. Bill reports in with three boys and one gal. Hb contacts over the last year have been \vJth JACK BAKER, who is executive vice-president of the Holmes Oept. Store in New Orleans; his old roommate DICK S&VXNELL who also lives in Fairfield, Conn.; also FR/\N HERB who is with a business machine company in Balti­more; and Dr. MIKE SCULLY who is a surgeon at St. Vincent's Hospital in Bridgeport, Conn. It's nice to know that Scully is around because the Secretary has written to him for every column and nary an answer as yet. To think I used to let him crawl in our window in ^Vlumni Hall. DICK SC:\NNELL reported tliat he had been in contact with DON HANNING, who is still with the FBI, and D.\X SULUV^VN*, both of whom live in Wash­ington, D.C. 
An old neighbor from Freshman Hall days, PHIL BOXDI, writes from Dayton, Ohio, and the Stan­dard Cash Register Co., that he has an investment at the University in the Junior Class who claims the place Is a lot tougher now than it was when his dad was a gleaming light in Dean McCarthy's class, and running for many of the political offices on the campus. Bond! reports many bouts with the medical corps and hospitals since '37 and hopes (and we all do) that good health is his at last, lie heard from our mutual roommate BOB RUS­SELL, who is now with Miller High Life as last reported and recommended for the reunion commit­tee. Phil gets the usual cards from ED CROTTY, TOM HUGHES, EL.MER ZEXNER, and JOE SCHILLING at Christmas time. To go with the big N.D. boy Phil also has another boy and girl, plus the middle age secretarial spread that has plagued so many of the bo>*s after '37. 
V.-P.' AL SCHWARTZ comes through with a bv­line on BILL SHAKESPErVRE, who has been elect­ed a V.-P. of Cincinnati Rubber Mfg. Co., a div. of Thor Power Tool Co. Bill had previously been associated with the export division of Thor and has traveled all over the world and ser\ed. as export sales manager. Bill's picture appeared in the Thor Scoreboard and now sports a mustache (glasses too, which we kne%%* about). He hangs his hat in a Cinc\' suburb and has two children. 
JOHN COLLINS of Republic Moulding Co., 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ June, 1959 37 
formerlv of Chicago, has now been transferred to 

Rocliestcr. X.Y. FRANK "PINKY" CARROLL, 
AFs in-law, has deserted the East Coast and now 
lives, of all places, in Manhattan, Kansas, where he 
is the business manager of St. Mar>''5 Hospital no\\' 
in the process of a three-mil lion-dollar building 
program. '"Pinky" should have been associated with 
ihe hospital before when he was raising tlic family. 
A real good correspondent is now lieading back 

East — JACK GILLESPIE is being transferred to 
Xew York City for the domestic company, Mobil 
Oil Co. (Socnny), in cliarge of public relations 
after having the same department on a smaller 
^caIc ill the Midwest. Jack will join the delav'cd 
Xew Haven commuters this summer in the Fair­
field Conniy area. 
FRANK LESSELLYONG, sales manager of Ton­

ka Toys, checked into the Toy Siiow in X'ew York 
in niid'Februaiy and we had a date which 1 was 
unable to keep. Frank and Jack were nMimmates 
and finally got together the last year. Tonka Toy 
ha-s kept LeswIIyoag on the go all over the countr>". 
Father JOYCE, C.S.C., acknowledged his freak eye accidrnt and staled that the vacation came in handy once he learned of no impaired vision. (Fr. Xed stepped on a plank, that sprung up and hit hull in the eye. for your info.—Hkely j.tor>'}. He also reports that the be:t winter in Soutli Ben-I histor\- has just been completed. 
GORDON' .MURPHY, V.-P. of Anurican Na­tional Bank, reports in from Cheyenne. Wyo.. that the .\ir Force leaving Cheyenne and now the iiiis­^ile program moving in with Convair have changed the present economy of the area. BiLsiness can't be too bad, as the bank expects to put a iietv build­ing up in the area. 
JAMES W. DOW'NEY, M.D., general practi­tioner, of Kansas City, Mo. (domicile K.C., Kan.) has taken up farming on the side (subsidy program no doubt) and a little expensive golf game. He sees BILL SHARP, GRAHAM OWENS, TO.M "FROG" HIGGINS and EDDIE RE/\RDON. For a real shock we heard from *'Rid-Wcsl." a product of Relxv-A-Cbor. Inc., in the persim of the admin­istrative assistant to the vice-president—none other than PETE JOHNEN, Chicago. Tlie adv. material stated that this wonderful machine is used on the sub "Scawoir* for relaxing puropscs and was a feature in Esquire Mag. Pete is balder than ever if this is possible (GENE LING please note). He sees ARCH GO'i'i" once in awhile. .Arch has shift­ed from Intl. IIar\'ester to Elgin Corporation after many years. From the deep southwest **TEX" POWERS writes from the Humble Oil Company, Baytown area. "Tex" spent some time here In New Jersey but Is now a commuter from the Houston area. He didn't like the N.Y.C. commuting and now has to suffer the Texas way. One address has been changed and I believe the vacation bound boys will want this one. J.ACK Mc/\ULIFFE, arch­itecture *37, has moved from Lanikai, Hawaii, to Kailua, Hawaii. When visiting the new state be sure to look up the Quinns (Gov.) and Jack. 
Many thanks to my correspondents, but the per-

CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—At a U.N.D. Night dinner-dance in Plainficld, N. J., (1. to r.) Club President Dan Grace beams as Father Edmund Joyce, CS.C, executive vice president of Notre Dame, presents a Man-of-the-Year scroll to John E. Rcager. 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 
WILLIAM V. SHAKESPEARE, '36 Still Winning in Ohio 

William V. (Bill) Shakespeare, AU-Amcrican halfback of 1935 whose last-minute pass beat Ohio State 18-13 that year in one of the most memorable comeback victories in Irish grid annuals, has just been elected a vice president of Cincinnati Rub­ber Manufacturing Company, Cincinnati, Ohio, a division of Thor Power Tool Com­pany of Aurora, 111. Bill has been assistant to the president since 1956 and has been in the Thor organization since his gradua­tion. 
Fans most frequently recall Bill's role in the remarkable comeback win over a mighty Ohio State team. The Irish were down 13-0 going into the final quarter and were that close only because of Shakespeare's ex­cellent punting. 
Sparked by Andy Pilncy, Notre Dame scored twice but still trailed 13-12 with a minute to play. 
With the clock ticking off the final sec­onds, Shakespeare faded all the way to Ohio's 38 and let loose a pass which Wayne Millner grabbed in the end zone. 
Bill Shakespeare entered Thor Power Tool Company's Export Division after his grad­uation and has been in the Thor organiza­tion ever since. He traveled extensively throughout Central and South America, Africa, and the Far East before becoming Thor's export sales manager, headquartered at New York City, from 1951-56. He moved to the Cincinnati Rubber Manufac­turing Company division of Thor in 1956. 
Bill resides with his wife and two sons. Bill, Jr. and Warren, at Kenwood, Ohio. During World War II, as an Infantry cap­tain, he was awarded a Bronze Star for gallantry during the Battle of the Bulge. 
centagc is still ver>' low on returns. Some letters I didn't get to sign and I apologize for the ovc^ sight. ei 
From the .'Vlunini Office: All kinds of news concerning one of the Class* most famous people, DR. CHxVRLES A- HUFNA­GEL, heart surgeon and inventor of the *'Hufnagel \-aIve'* for defective aortas. Charley was honored in Februar>' by the Indiana Society of Washington, D.C., as "Hoosier of the Year" and was also lauded on the floor of the U. S. House of Representatives and in the Congressional Record by Congressman .•\dair. In March he gave the 1959 Kober lecture at Georgetown, and recent Russian medical papers on the possibility of heart transplants recalled that Dr. Hufnagel has been talking aI>out that possibility for vears. A 
A. M. "TONY" B.-VYOT has been appointed as> sistant general manager of Shriro (Philippines), Inc., according to a Marcli 27 stor>' in the ^lantla Bulletin. Tony has been in the steamship business in Xew York, San Francisco and his native Manila ever since graduation except for distinguished serv­ice as an officer in North Africa and Europe during World War II and the Korean conflict. 
REV. JOSEPH ENGLISH, M.M., is with the Maryknolt Fathers in South /Vinerica. .Xddress: Casilla 893, Temuco, Chile. 
1 938 Burnett G. Bauer 1139 Western Ave. South Bend, Indiana ^ 
If you read South Bend's greatest (and only) daily newspaper, Tltc Tribune, any day since the beginning of the year, you'd likely find something about the Class of *38 in it. Most of it, of course, is a play by play account of JOE KUHARICH's return to his alma mater and home town. Biggest event so far was the dinner given Joe by his local classmates March 16, after being snowed out on a previous date in Februarj". Joe's Badin Hall roommate. CHUCK BOROWSKI; the Professor. ED CRO.VIN, and protocol expert DON FISHER were co-chairmen of the event, at which Iumin.v'es included, besides the new official staff of assistant coaches, the following unofficial staff of coachcs­from our class: c\-.-\ll-American CHUCK SWEE^ NEY; ex-bachelor BILL GIBBONS; cx-villager JOHN MONAHAN; cx-coloncl from Paducah LOUIE ANDERSON, ex - W.C.T.U. moderator NELSON VOGEL; cx-mayor of South Bend JACK SCOTT, and X. FR^\NC!S SCHAEFER. Also pres­ent but hard to account for were piano mxsscur ED HAGER; Niles, (Mich.) best informed (at least on football) druggist PETE KRAJCI; night life's gift to radio, FR^VNK CROSIAR, Kansas City's gift to the N. D. Foundation DICK BOWES, and the man who invented the phrase: "Who said they're cheaper by the dozen?" CELLV BALL. Cclly knows whereof he speaks, having welcomed offspring no. 12, a boy, Dominic, last Januar>'. Score now for Celly and Lynetle Ball is 8 boysi and 4 girls which makes Celly prime target fof* 
JOE KUHARICH's recruiting service,—Also there, especially in spirits, were BOB DUBOIS, factory manager in the ofT-golfing season; lumberman JIM LAHEY, cup-bearer JAKE BURKE; steel and hard­ware tycoon JIM BEAUDWAY; dapper DON HICKEY, chuckling CHARLIE Cx\LLAHAN; clear­headed (I admit I met him early In the evening) CLARENCE SCHUMACHER, and diligent (never let a glass remain empty] DON SMITH. Emcee *vas JOHNNY MURPHY, who, it was announced by Kuharich that night, will assist Hugh Devorc as Freshman coach while continuing with South Bend School City. Murphy retired from coaching high school football in South Bend last fall aftef^j^ compiling a brilliant record. On John's freshman*­squad next fall will be his son Dennis who was all-city end for two years at South Bend's John Adams High Scliool. Guests from lesser classes of 
X. D. included STEVE COUGHLIN ('37), HERB JONES ('27), BOB &\HILL ('34), ".MOOSE" ED KRAUSE CW), DAVE SLATTERY ('48), KUHA­RICH's executive secretarj.-; HUGH DEVORE ('34) and JOE BOL.\XD ('27). 
More good news. BILL COSTELLO has recov­ered completely from his heart attack last fall and is back at his desk in the bi-ft field in Chicago. TO.M F1TZGER^\LD had his picture, which looked suspiciously like his Dome picture — a strictly dis­couraging procedure to us with eroding hairlines— in the Indianapolis paper announcing his appoint-4 ment as general manager of the electronics di\'ision^^ of P. R. Mallor>' S: Co. of Indianapolis. Tliis news »-as sent in by our old Prcxy JOHN O'CONNOR who also said Joe Kuliarich was to be their Notre Dame Night speaker in Indianapolis this year. 
J-cstcr Halscnia, '53, displays his N.D. pen­dan t and Confederate flag {for his native Miami, Fla.) while stationed at Little America V, Antarctica, during^ Na\->' "Oper­ation Deep Freeze" programs. Tower (back­ground ) is used to photograph Southern Aurora. 
John lias two mure years to go as an Alumn! As­sociation director. HARVEY FOSTER^ FBI-mg In Ne\v York, was quoted in the papers and appeared on Dave Garroway's program In connection with ^|!ic kidnapping of a baby in New York. .-V card postmarked Vatican City from Maj'or (Doctor) DAN MONAGHAN, Army Medical Corps, to CHARLEY CALL.\H/\i\ said: "Had audience with Pope Jolin XXHI yesterday and attended recep­tion for new American Cardinals at North American College (for clergy only) last night. Talked to Spellman, Gushing, and Apostolic Delegate. O'Hani was sick and did not attend but he stopped and beamed during procession in consistory* this morn­ing when I screamed 'Notre Dame' at him. Most disappointed not to see anyone from N. D.—Boston here in droves to salute Gushing." Well, after all, Dan, Boston is closer to Rome than N. D., besides I am sure a Denver Monaghan could keep up with any number of Bostonians especially if he is a 
#llass of '38.er! -^ s\ nice letter from GEORGE McDERMOTT who recently moved with his wife, Elizabeth (Zibby) and four children, Milton, Beth, Cathy and Johnny, from Oklahoma City to 6813 Gaston Ave., Dallas, Texas. This was not George's first move. George traveled New York state as a social worker after graduation until the Air Force gave him a three-year tour. He then became a salesman for the Hickok Mfg. Co. in Rochester, N.Y., until 1951, when he went into the construction business in Slireveport, La. A very enjoyable and profitable 18 months illness on the part of his partner de­cided George to terminate the experience and cn­
^e r the stock brokerage business, which he is still 
W^.i as a partner and general manager of the Dallas and Oklahoma City office of Wiles and Company. George wants all of the lads to look him up when they get near Dallas. That's an order, men! My predecessor CHARLEY a\LLAH^\N has men­tioned hearing from the following this past winter: ED BRENN.VN, TOM MULLIGAN, JOE CALL^V­HAN, JERRY CLIFFORD, PAUL LE.\HY, TOM WUKOVITS, HUB KIRCHMAN, SCOTT RE.\R­DON, HAL L.\NGTON and BILL MAHONEY who, not so incidentally, has nine children, we're glad to hear. 
RAY .MEYER visited with JOE KUH^VRICH at the N. D.-DcPaul basketball game flanked — and man, what flanks! — by TOM JORDAN and 
^HUC K BOROWSKL 
9y Change of addresses but, sad to say, no other word came in from GREG KEEGAN, Room 202, 4233 Surphur, St. Louts 9, Mo.; E.MIL RUGE, 233 West Commercial Ave., Lowell, Ind.; BROTHER HILARION, C.S.C., who moved from Boy's Rancli at Bedford, Texas, to St. Edward's U. in Austin, and J.\MES RUSSELL CALLAHAN, 22665 S. Woodland Rd., Cleveland 22, Ind. If any of you influential men in the class can persuade the above mentioned to send in a few words as to their ac­tivities you will receive the everlasting gratitude of your old rounder-up of the news — typewriter cowboy "Swede" Bauer, the sage of Western ave­nue. Adios. 
From the Alumni Office: 

R.P . "BOB" LEONARD of Kingston, N. C , chief super\'isor of yam operations at DuPont's Kingston plant, has been transferred to Wilmington, Del., as assistant to the production manager of the Dacron-Textilc Rayon Mfg. Di\'ision. 
x\NDREW H. PISECK writes: "I suppose some of the old LL.B. classmates have wondered where I have been during the past years. Well, since graduation it could best be written in a book, but to make things brief let's say 4'/: years in the .•\rmy, 2 years in the European Theater of opera­tions. 
".•\rmy service started with the 4th Armored Di­vision and concluded with the O.S.S. in Germany; travels included N. Ireland, Scotland, France, Bel­gium, Luxembourg and Germany. 
"Presently I am in the Inspector General's Office with the Air Force at Roaina, Rome. N.Y," Andy hopes to take his wife to a home football game in October and will look up his classmates. 
jn 
JUNE I2I3-I4 
_ Rt\>H\OH 
CLASS *' 
OF • 

1 939 J'""^ ^- Motschall 
Singer-Motsdiall Corp. 
10090 West Chicago 
Detroit 4, Michigan 

This is tlic last issue of the Alumnus before tlie Class Reunion on Frida>% Saturday and Sunday, June 12, 13 and 14, 1959. As your secretary' I add my own cordial inntation to the one sent out by the University, for you to attend our 20th Re­union. It will not be a success unless YOU attend. Your president. Chuck Reddy and myself arc try­ing to plan a very interesting, rcla.\ing and en-jo>-abIc week end for you. The University has kept the cost down to a bare minimum, bccatise they want all of you to return. The first men to accept our invitation were PAUL DONOVAN of Ebnira, N.Y., and JACK McDONALD o£ Cleieland, Ohio, but there have been many since. 
The following are the nestf addresses of '39ers: 

THOMAS BARNETT, 8368 Parkside Drive, San Bernardino, Calif.; ROBERT J. BIRKENHAUER, 1024 Anne Drive, Kingston, N. C ; THOMAS R. BULGER, 3921 Washington Blvd., Indianapolis 20, Ind.; JOHN J. CAREY, 3390 N. Meridian St., In­dianapolis 8, Indiana; LAWRENCE A. DOYLE, 25 Crestwood Road, Morristown, N. J.; RICHARD J. GARAB, 193 Constant Drive, Flushing, Mich.; WALTER H. JOHNSON, JR., Senior Vice-Presi­dent, Marketing, Capitol Airlines, National Airport, Washington, D. C; JOSEPH E. McDERMOTT, 10200 Fairfield, Chicago, III.; JOSEPH C. MASON, 2998 Estates Avenue, Pinoli, Calif.; DR. DANIEL 
M. MURPHY, 339 E. Church St., Marion, Ohio; EDW^VRO FRANCIS O'MALLEY, 44 Glcnview, Belleville, III.; JOSEPH A. PEDRUCCI, 118 Cilde Drive, Springfield, 111.; GERARD A. PURCELL, 318 Lincoln BIdg., Scranton, Pa.; LEE S. RE.\D, JR., 3603 Apache Road, Louisville, Ky.; ROBERT 
T. RENDLEN, 33 Cedarbroot, St. Louis, Mo.; STEWART J. ROCHE, Oceana Co. Savings Bank BIdg., Hart, -Mich.; JOHN E. RYAN, 3924 Marda, Redlands, Calif.; PATRICK R. SHEA, 1509 Omeoh­ta Knoll, S. Pasadena, Calif.; JOHN L. SUTTON, Lt. Col. U.S.A.F. Dept. of History, U.S-A.F. Acad­emy, Colorado; FRANCIS S. TUCK, 8418 Ruthby, Houston 17, Tttas; ROBERT F. VOELKER, Box 492, Stephenson, Mich. 
Received a very nice Christmas card from the Gcrcnd harem, on which WALTER GEREND had pictured his five "charmers'* — Carol, Patty, Betty, Kathy and Jean. You have a very handsome look­ing family, Walter, and you'd better buy a strong bat to keep the boys from breaking down the doors. 
We were indeed very sorry to learn of the death of a-\RL PJCK, father of ROBERT PICK, our classmate. Also the death of Monsignor JOSEPH 
B. TOOMEY, whose brother, JOHN J. TOOMEV, was our classmate. 
JERRY GREEN is the ofHcc manager of the Ben­dLx ^fissiIes, Mishawaka, Ind. He lives with his wife Stella, son Jim, Jr., and daughter Cora Ann, in Niles, Midi. We arc counting on you, Jerry, to be present at the Reunion. 
CHARLES W. EPHGRAVE is Vice-President and partner of a petroleum company in Chicago, 111., where he lives with his wife Kathryn (her maiden name was Clifford, and she was a St, Mary's girl of '39), and their two daughters—Kathy Ann, 7, and Mary Alice, 6. 
GEORGE R. ^ULOY li a General Insurance .^genl in Clyde, N.Y., where he lives with his wife Anne and their two daughters Suzanne, 9, and Nancy, 5. 
NEAL P. COCHILAN is Chief, Ind. Engr. Oiv., Rocky Mtn. Arsenal, and has recently moved to .Aurora, Colo. His wife, Ann, and their daughters 
NEW YORK—James H. Shells receives congratulations on his being named Notre Oame Man of the Year by the New York Club on Universal Notre Dame Night. From left: Rer. John P. Kelly, executive director of National Catholic Community Service; Shells; James 
C. MacDevitt, Jr., Club president, and Rev. Chester A. Soleta, CS.C., Notre Dame's vice president for Academic Affairs. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 39 
Barbara Anne, 9, Patrice, 6, and ^farion Katho'"] 
3 months, arc all enjoying the fine ^vcather. 
Checking my rcconis, I find that many of these neu-s items have been in my iite for G or 8 montlu. I have tried to space llic information so tliat we could have something in the ALUMNUS cacli time. A good example of this is a letter from PAUL M. DONOVAN (see note above), practicing attorney in Elmira, N.Y., where he lives with his wife Helen and their children—Matthew, 15, Katie, 14, Mi­chael, n . William, 8, Mar^-, 5, and Paul, 2. 
MER\^'X J. GORMAN, JR., is an advcriising executive with Grant Advertising in Caracas, Vene­zuela. His 'wife Ruth, daughters Sheila, Laurel and ^fartha, and sons Timothy and Steven, all enjoy the bongo music as well as the warm climate. Mer­%->Ti iiould like to hoar from JIM U'ALSH, FR/VXK CUNNIXGH.\M, DICK ANTON, JOE HARRING­TON and ALFONSO URIBE, and he would also like to know the whereabouts of Father KELLY, CS.C , who was rector in Lyons Hall. 
Just received a vcr>' nice brochure from JOE HARRINGTON, in Colon, Panama, in whicli Joe explains the recent changes in Panama's Fiscal Code. Joe is resident manager in Panama for the Charles Pfizer Corporation. 
My apologies to FRED E. SI5K for postponing the information which he sent mc some months ago. Fred U an attorney located in Las Animas, Colo., where he and his wife Jean and their four children—Chuck, Kathy, Bill and LIbby, as well as three dogs and one cat, live vcrj' happily. In ad­dition to being a lau->-er, Fred is District .Attorney of the iGtIi Judicial District of Colorado. He has been elected County Attorney and also has ser\xd as President of the Colorado District .-\ttorne;-s' As­sociation. Fred occasionally sees JOE DUNN who is a successful livestock operator and "gentleman" farmer. I Iiope that both you, Fred and Joe, will be back this coming June. Fred would like to hear from JOE DRAY, FR.\NK FITCH, ^''INCE D£­COURSEY, and BOB PICK. Thank you very mucli, Fred, for your excellent letter, and I promise that I will be more prompt in the future. 
FRED J. FROMHART owns a Bowling Alley in ifoundsWIie, U', Va. His ^vjfc, Betty fias presented him with three cliildren during the past feu- yca;s, —David, II, Jeffrey, 9, and Gregory, S/-- Fred' would like to hear from LEO KENNEDY of Cleve­land and JOHN ifcMAHON of Indianapolis. 
My apologies to P.\UL F. KLUDING, D.ANIEL 

P. FALSIONI, JOE JUDGE, ALFRED O. KIE­FEN, ROBERT M. ORTALE, L^UVRENCE J. PE­TROSHIUS, PETER REPETTI, .-VLPHONSE RE­SPONDEK. TO.M ROCHE, STANLEY SHEER..\N, LARRY SUTTON, CHUCK THEISEN, PAUL TULLY, ARTHUR VERHOESTRA, JOHN VES­SELS, JOE 2UE.\DEL, ED VON HOENE and FRANCIS .\LVSTOPIETRO, for not including their information in the last tiirce or Sour issues oi ihc ALUMNUS Magazine, \\-Iiich was intentional on my part to try to spread the information I received over a period of a year or so, but, unintentionally it got away from me to a point where I am now 12 to 1-i months behind time. 
In the July-August issue I will have the balance of the copy as well as all the information on our reunion. My farewell message is that I would love to buy the next beer for our entire class of o58 men, and I sincerely hope that as many of you as ph>-sically and financially possible will be on the campus on June 12. 
VrrO VICTOR BELLING has been appointed manager of the patent liaison section of Wyeth Laboratories. For the last eight years Dr. Bcllino 
has been a laboratory 
supervisor for the Bar­
rett Division of Allied 
Chemical Corp. He 
represented the firm 
as associate member 
of the analytical re­
search committee of 
the American Petro­
leum Institute. 
He began his ca­
reer in chemistr\- with 
the Rcilly Tar and 
Chemical Corp., New­
ark, N,J., follovring 

lib graduation. He remained with tliat company for nine years and ad\"anced to the position of chief chemist. 
Dr. Bellino received his M.A. degree from Colum­bia Univcrsit>' and his PIuD. from Notre Dame. I^tcr he studied law at Temple University and earned his LL.B. degree in 1957. He is presently 3 member of tlie Bar of the U. S. Court for the District of Columbia. He is a fellow of the Ameri­can Institute of Chemists and cliairman of that organziation's PcnnsyK-ania Section Legislation Com­
40 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 
JOHN R. ZERBST, '38 Pru'afe Point Four 

In his thirteen years in Brazil Jack Zcrbst has conducted a pnH-ate Point Four program which has possibly brought more U. S. "know-how" to South .American business and industry* than a dozen Pan-American trade conferences. 
In 1946, following ser\'icc in World War II, Jack was sent to Brazil as a sales rep­resentative for the foreign department • of Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation with all of Brazil as his tcrritor>'. In 1948 he founded Union Carbide do Brasil S..A. as the first Union Carbide foreign unit. This campany was the sales agent for Eveready Products as well as chemicals and plastics. During that year he also promoted stock participation of Union Carbide in 
S.A. \Vhitc Martins, the leading Brazilian company engaged in oxygen and acetylene products and distribution. 
In 1950 he founded National Carbon do Brasil S..A.. as the manufacturing subsidiary of Union Carbide do Brasil, making Eve­ready flashlight cases and batteries. In 1951 Union Carbide became part owner of BAKOL and entered the polystyrene busi­ness, building the first polyethylene plant in Latin America near Santos, Brazil. In 1958 he further diversified his interests by form­ing a new company, CODIM, to explore mineral resen-es in Brazil. 
All the above Jack has done acting as president of Union Carbide do Brasil, but he has mixed his Brazilian business career with continuous civic and charitable activ­ity, including positions on the- board of directors of the American grade school and the American Chamber of Commerce in Sao Paulo, where he lives with his wife Elizabeth and I3-ycar-old son John. 
mittee. He is also a member of the American 
Chemical Society and the Franklin Institute. A_ 
native of Elizabeth, N. J., Dr. Bcllino now maktj^ 
Iiis home in Abington, Pa. 
GEORGE J. NEUXfANTC is now assistant na­tional sales director for the Edgeu-atcr Beach Hotel in* Chicago. What a site George could have pro­vided for the 20th reunion! 
194 0 James G. Brown 625 Madison Ave New York, New York 
From the Alumni Office: JA.MES F. SHIELV, president of the Wnton Lumber Sbles Co., of ^Iinneapolts, was elected president of Pondcrosa Pine Woodwork at the ^T4B sociation*s recent an-^ nual meeting in Chi-f:ago. PPW is an association of lumber producers and manu­facturers of woo d 
\rindows, panel doors, and kitchen cabinets. Jim joined Winton Lumber as president in 1952. He also has been associated with the Rock Island Lum­ber Co., of St. Paul, and ser\ed with the .•\rmv .Air Corps in 
World ^Var II. 
Jim lives at 1416 Goodrich St., St. Paul, with his wife and five children. He was Fire King of the 1955 St. Paul Winter Carnival, and last fall coached St. Paul's clianipiouship Little League foot­
ball team. 
Coach BUD KERR had about 60 candidates Jn uniform April 1 wljcn he opened spring drills for his University of Dayton football team. Bud has some veterans in the line, but his big hope for next 
fall is a collection of speedy freshman backs. 
The deepest sympathv of classmates w-ill be ex­tended to Mr. and Mrs. PAUL GL.\SS, 12925 Chcr­n* Rd., North Miami, Fla., on the death of tlieir 13-ycar-old daughter Maureen ("Missy") of nephri­
tis this spring. Paul has been a member of lh'j|^ Miami Foundation Committee. 
I O^l James F. Spellman 
• '^' 7 East 42nd St. New York 17, N. Y. 
From the -Alumni Office: Some quick trips to Universal Notre Dame Nights held by Midwestern N. D. Clubs convinced ye edi­tor that 1941, besides being packed with account­ants, is pretty strong in the club officer depart­ment. .\t the Eastern Indiana celebration in ilun­cic, Ind., April 21, JOE MAHER, who has 5er\ed the Club faithfully as a director for New CastlciJ^ was installed as \^cc-President. In Jackson, Mich., WILSON "BILL" CRiVNDELL, a refugee from Kalamazoo, staj-s on as Secretary. At last notice GERALD FISHER of Nilcs, Mich., was Sccretar\' of the Berrien County Club. DR. GEORGE KATTER of Johnstown, Pa., is now at the helm of the N. D. Club of Central Pennsyl­\'ania, while E. J. ETTL is Vice-President in El Paso, Texas. Last year JI.M aVRBERRY was an­nounced as President in Boise, Idaho, and JIM WALSH took office in April as top man for the 
N. D. Club of Uic Lehigh Valley. 
19d 2 William M. Hickey rA 
• '^ ^ 3333 West 47th Place ^ Chicago 32, Illinois 
Wc have received a letter from our Class Presi­dent, JIM O'NEAL, who is with the D'Aro" Ad­vertising Co., 430 Park Ave., New York. He re­ports: "My Notre Dame activities have been fairly minimized due to office transfers between New York, St. Louis and back to New York uithin ten months. . . . with six daughters, it's a little tr%*ing. Now wc arc firmly re-established in the giant me­tropolis, and arc tremendously happy with our latest addition. . . a son, born December 3! Poor guy probably won't have a cliance of getting to Notre Dame witli all those sisters draining the cookie J3' ^ dr>'. About a month ago, your anemic friend anil7 mine, tiny LARRY KELLEY, showed up in town . . . with the pace he sets, I couldn't begin to relate the ground wc covered. Anyway, he's hale and hearty and still utterly amazed tliat anyone could possibly live any place but Texas. Larr>' came through with a daughter about twelve hours 
i^arlier than our new boy. Incidentally, on that it. Louis trip, Mary and I had a very pleasant visit with FR,\NK POLLNOW, GEORGE CONVY and their vvjvcs and, naturally as the evening gained znomentuin, bad lo clieck in with two o( our eld buddies who have recently left St. Louis. . . .ED GRIESEDECK, now running the FalstalT Brewing operation out of Ft. Wayne, and TOM HEXNI­GAN , who has gone into the floor covering business for liimscif in I*)iocnK-. Botli reported in as very-happy with their new locations and their businesses. i\s you may have heard, Ed also welcomed his first Son about five or six weeks before ours so we're counting on their being classmates come 197G. If you ever get up this way, please be sure to call mc: Plaza 8-2600, 430 Park Avenue," 
^ Also, we have a note from ROY MURR/VY, who lives at 1301 West Platinum. Butte, Mont.: "Way Out here in Montana I don't get mucli cliancc to see any of the fellows from '42. Can't say when I last saw a member of our class. Keep saying I will cither attend a reunion or a football game, but so far •— no go. I was in Chicago in January* aitrnd­ing the S^tional Automobile Dealers Convention, and hoped I might make some contact but that failed. I did talk to DAN SHOmaiX in Spring­iicld, Ohio, on the phone but we couldn't make contact. Dan and I are married to classmates from Emmanuel College in Boston, and it ivas through Dan I met my wife. We both liavc three children. Dan is with Bauer Brothers in Springfield. I am ^l e Chevrolet Dealer here in Butte. Made a note 'of the luncheon deal you fellows have in Chicago and if I'm ever there long enough will try lo at­tend. Should I in the future make contact with more members of our class, I'll drop you a line." CHARLIE KIRBY, who lives at 123 Forest Ave­nue, New Roclielle, X.Y,, writes; "First, after junketing around the Caribbean for a year and a half with the Grace Company, I returned to my first love, publishing (U. S. News and World Report Magazine) last fall. Fourth child — David Nicholas Kirby, arrived last April, liavc recently seen the following from '42. . . . FRED PAULMANN and TOM FrrZHARRIS, neighbors in New Rochelle; Jx\CIv GARVEY and GUS HARDART, nearby. BUD CONCANNON also in evidence and witli cx­
^feanding family. DOS CONNORS, not Big Red, tiowntown N.Y.C. in law firm. JlSl O'NEAL here at D'Arcy, handling Olln Mathicson account." 
BILL "SCOOP" Sa\NL^\N has just been award­ed a Certificate of Commendation by his employer. The Pullman Banking Group of Chicago, as recog­nition of outstanding service above normal respon­sibility, primarily for his representation of the banking groups before trade organizations and other groups explaining the development of the St. Lawrence-Mississippi Waterway system and the per­sonal service he extended to bank customers in handling their foreign afToirs. 
From the Alumni Office; 

0^ Former St. Joseph County, Indiana, Prosecutor ' 15R/\HAM W. McGOWrVN has been selected to be general counsel of the Federal Housing Adminis­tration. Graliam has also served as assistant U. S. attorney for the Northern District of Indiana and special assistant to the general counsel for the Com­merce Department. He's married to the former Alice Schafer of South Bend. 
The promotion of THOMAS J. SUELZER to the position of manager of meal and oil sales was an­nounced by Central Soya Company, Inc., of Fort 
Wayne, Ind. Tom will ^ cover the sale of both "1 soybean meal and oil 
from processing oper­ations located at De­catur and Indianapo­lis, Ind.; Gibson City and Chicago, 111.; Marion, Ohio; and Chattanooga, Tenn. 
Tom joined Central in tlic accounting de­partment in 1946. In 1948, he was named manager of the com­pany's insurance de­

partment, and in 1954, became a member of Central Soya's Meal and Oil Sales Staff in Fort Wayne. He will continue to make his headquarters in the company's executive offices in Fort Wa>Tie. 
^ i A new drug method to control cliolesterol, a contributing cause of heart and artery disease, was announced by a team of scientists headed by DR. THOMAS R. BLOHM to tlte nation's leading re­searchers in atherosclerosis meeting at The Federa-
ROBERTO M. BENAVIDES, '39 Cow-Punching Judge 
Roberto Benavides' taking up the gavel in 

Januar)' had all the elements of a TV 
western. 
Elected last fall as Judge of Webb 

County (Laredo and surrounding area), 
Texas, on the banks of the Rio Grande, Bob 
Bcnavides established a record by being 
victorious without any kind of partj* affilia­
tion. 
Since Bob graduated cum laude with an 

LL.B. he has divided most of his time be­tween law practice and ranching. Over the past two years he has been elected and re­elected Grand Knight of Knights of Co­lumbus Council 2304, is Chairman of the Laredo Red Cross for the second straight year, and is Chairman of the Laredo Git)­Planning Commission. 
A native of Laredo, he has long been active in civic and religious work, and is also one of the disappearing breed who are at home just as much in the saddle on a ranch pony as in a living room. 
Bob is married and resides at 1420 Corpus Christi Street, Laredo, Texas. 
tion of American Societies for Experimental Biology, April H. 
Dr. Blohm and his colleagues reported that a new drug discovered In the pharmaceutical labora­tories of The AVm. S. Merrell Co., Cincinnati, will Inhibit the production of cholesterol. 
Mead Johnson &. Company, nutritional and phar­maceutical manufacturer, announces the promotion of JOHN R. CORRIGAN, Ph.D., to assistant de­partment director of the Synthetic Organic Chemis­try Department in the firm's Research division. 
Dr. Corrigan, with Mead Johnson since 1955, had been a group leader in synthetic organic chemistry. He is a native of Spokane, Wash. 
|OA J John L. Wiggins 5125 Briggs Ave. La Crescenta, Calif. 
From the .Alumni Office: 
Class Treasurer JI.M ^fADIG/VN has reported to Secretary- JACK WIGGINS some indications that the class* ambitious "Buck-a-^Veek" pledge plan 
may increase the class gift to the N. D. Founda­
tion substantially, but that most of the Class has 
yet to follow up on the plan In any modification. 
Jim would like to remind everyone that the $32 
Is only a standard of the mean contribution that 
might be expected of a class 15 years removed and 
moderately prosperous . .A pledge of any amount Is-
appreciated; with most '43 men it would probably 
be less than a buck a week, but with a fe^v it could 
be much, much more. 
ED RONEY Is in and out of Detroit, presumably 
still trying to work out a Notre Dame tour of Eu­
ropean shrines, particularly Lourdes and Rome. 
On campus Father BOB PELTON, C.S.C., mod­
erated the swimming club until it took on varsity 
team status. Now rector of iforrissey Hall, Father 
Pelton has been editing a Spanish-language catalog 
of American Catholic colleges and universities for 
distribution abroad, particularly in Latin America. 
Father GEORGE BERNARD, C.S.C., Notre Dame's 
vice-president for student affairs, was on the ban­
quet trail In the East recently for Universal Notre 
Dame Night. 
DR. ROBERT P. NENNO was recently named 
a professor and chairman of the Department of Psy­
chiatry* at Scton Hall College of Medidnc. Bob was 
formerly assistant director of the Department of 
Psychiatry at Georgetown University School of Med­
icine, where he founded a Retarded Children's 
Clinic and a psychiatric residency* program. DAL­
LAS A. MILj\^f, who has been with the Indiana 
& Micliigan Electric Co. for several years, has beeik 
promoted from commercial and industrial sales su­
pervisor to administrative assistant of the South 
Bend Division. Dallas was also recently elected to 
the board of directors of the South Bend Associa­
tion of Commerce. JOHN McHALE agreed to take 
over as general manager and vice-president of the 
National League Champion Milu*aukee Braves. Since 
1957 John had been general manager of the De­
troit Tigers, who went Into a slump as soon as 
he left. He spent 18 years with the Tigers and at 
37 Is one of the youngest top executi\-es in baseball. 
He played with i-arious Tiger farm clubs, batted 
.313 and collected 22 homers with Buffalo In 1945. 
JUNE I2I3-I4 
•1^ 
^HP 

1944 George A. BarisciUo, Jr. 
5t5 5th Ave 
Bradlcf Bcacfa, N. J. 

^Vithln a very short time after this columa is published, the men of '4i will be treldns bode to the campus for their fifteenth reunion. Villi you be there? Local chairmen JOHN L\*NCH and BOB LEHNLAN have been hard at work these past months in close liaison with, the Alumni office, pre­paring tlte many memorable e%*ent5 scheduled for that important week end in June. Class headquar­ters for *44 men will be Xforrwsey Hall, and the $20 package deal for the full week end is a real bargain (covering lodging, meals, *'refreshments ga­lore,'* and many "extras"). These reunion gather­ings arc few and far between, and for that reason alone we should all make sure we're there. Those who were back for our 5th in '49 and our 10th in *54 will certainly want to make this one. Those who may have missed our last two reunions ^'shouldn't let it happen again." It shapes up as a real wonderful time for all, a great opportunity lo "catch up" on all the gang, and a perfect cliance to revisit the old haunts and to inspect the many changes at N. D. since our heyday. 
To the dass roster you have already received, please add the following men who heeded our call and notified the Alumni office to continue them on the '44 class roster, though most finished In another year: 
JOSEPH F. DILLON, 2615 .Marine St., South Bend, Ind.; J. BARRETT GUTHRIE, 116 E. Mar­ion St., South Bend, Ind.; R.AYMOND J. HOFF­M.AN, JR., 4924 Smith St., Fort Wayne, Ind.; JOSEPH P. PATRUCCO, 216 Columbus Ave., Meriden, Conn.; THEODORE F. SAHTH. 2306 West I2th St., .Anderson, Ind.; GERALD E. STAN­TON, 1005 South Delphia .Ave., Park Ridge, HI.; 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 41 

^*ORVAL P. TRIMBORX, JR., 735 S. East Ave, Oak Park. IH.; DON J. TROTTIER, GW Luding­ton St.. Escanaba, Mich.; P.AUL F. CARR, 45 Obcrlin Dr.. Warwick. Rhode Island; JOHN C. CROWLEY, 50 W. Bcllcvuc .-^ve., San ^^atco, Calif.; JOSEPH A. RIGXEY, Box 315. Wickforcl. 
R. I.; VICTOR S. COLLETTI, 2223 Wignall Ave. Port .Arthur, Texas; KELLY F. COOK, Route 3, Old Lyslra Rd., Chapel Hill, X. C; CHARLES J. PATTERSON', St Little Tree Lane, Framingham Center, Mass.; JOHX F. SLATER, 1570 N. La­fontainc. Huntington, Ind.: JOHX D. MURPHY ("Red John""), 825 Gregory- .^vc., Wilmettc, 111. 
Most of the foregoing have already indicated they 

'cxpect to be at our reunion Jn June. If there are 
any other '44 men who arc reading this column 
but vvho have not been lecriving reunion literature 
and have not yet received a class roster, I suggest 
they make this known to the .\lunini office imme­
<]iately and double-check (hat the ollice has their 
name listed on the '44 master roster. 
.\Iso add to your rositr ROBERT A. NLACDOX­

£LL (10030 Hazehon Ave., Detroit, Mich.) Bob as­
sures us that he and JOHX H. MORRIS will both 
be down from Detroit for the reunion Jn June. 
'"Black John" MURPHY passes along news from Tcrre Haute that he had a recent letter from J.ACK WHITELY (who is no\*- exec v-p of W. R. Grace & Co.). Jack 5a>*s he wilt be at the reunion "with 
•bells on and golf clubs in hand." 
Class "prcxy" JACK THORNTON has been holding pre-rcunion meetings for '44 men in the Chicago area. The initial gathering included J.ACK SEGERSOX, (Dr.) H.\ROLD HALEY, ED MON­AHAX, MILT FLYKE, JIM LANDGREN, JACK UTFOUS, GEORGE WEXDT, BILL KEXNY and ELMER SILH.A. Some bits of news Tliomton passes along. . . . "(Dr.) AL THOMETZ is listed on our rosier; he passed au-av in June, 1956. . . . 
•WALTER
 "MOX" ROGERS lost his mother in Januar\-. . . . JIM PL.-\TT has become a landlord, and Janitor. . . . JACK MOR:\X keeps promising to call. . , . FRANK TRUNK*s mother assured me she will help baby sit if he goes to the reunion. . . . MILT FLYKE will attempt rapport with Ins 

•engineering
 colleagues. . . . (Dr.) HAROLD HA­LEY is bucking for K.S.G. . . . KENN^Y and SE­CERSON are carpethi.u'ging in the Hammond, Ind., -area. . . . Witous and Wendt are still aw enlrj*. . . . £d Monahan insists 'iic likes our town. . . . Land­gren and Silha have all the money (what Kenny jocsn't have)," 


EM.METT ("Buzz") HASSETT is now sales man­ager for ^VF^^\'-T\^ Greensboro, N. C. 
W'e learned that BILL KELLY was recently as­signed overseas and his new address is EO-.\RDC, Shell Bldg., 47 Rue Kanterslcen, Brussels, Belgium. 
-We received quite a complete rundo\\-n on tlic New York gang from JOHN DUFFY, and without paraphrasing or deleting wc herewith quote his re­port: 
"ANDY B.VRBIERE: Andy is now living in Bald­\rin, and is presently in charge of the Brooklyn office, Fire Loss Division, of the America Fore In­surance Group. He and Grace now have two lovely Uttlc girls. 
"BILL OXONNOR: Bill is now with the Fiber Glass Division of Burlington Industries. He is do­ing ver>' well and has five little ones. 
*'JL\I GIBBONS: I think he has applied for Mexican citizenship. When wc see him, which is infrequent, wc call him Jose, He is selling fiber glass for one of Bill O'Connors competitors, 
*'DAN^ CVSEY: Dan is now a big wheel at the United States Lines. I see him quite regularly in business and socially. He lives in Jersey and has three children. 
"BOB a\SEY: Bob is with Swift & Co., selling meat and other products. He also lives in Jersey and is a regular at all the Alumni afTairs. 
"BILL TALBOT: Bill is still single, and hasn^t yet finished the great play, but he is trjing. He still works for the publishing house, and continues to be the Bon Vi\-ant of the Class, the last of the Big Spendcrs­
"ED MONAHAN: Ed left Westbur^-, and the FBI and is now operating his oivn security business in Chicago (I belic\'c). We sec Ed cver>- great once in a while when he comes into town on busi­ness. 
"PAUL McC-VBE: I met Paul two or three years ago when he was m town for a convention. Last I heard he had turned Republican and was elected District Attorney for Utica County. 
"JACK SULLIVAN: (McCabe's roommate) I had a Christmas card note from Jan Sullix-an asking me to get her husband out to tlie reunion, and I intend to drop him a line in that regard. As far as I know. Jack is still in Starkcy, N.Y., running the Ford Agency. 
"JACK SULLIV/VN: ('Rocky* from Huntington). 

42 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June^ 1959 
JOHN HART TERRY, '44 To Albany, a Boy from Syracuse 
Soon after New York's Governor Nelson 

A. Rockefeller announced the appointment of John Hart Terr\-, of Syracuse, New York, to the important post of appointment of­ficer on his new staff, John was elected by the Syracuse Jaycees as the city's outstand­ing young man for 1958. 
Active in the N.D. Alumni Club of Cen­tral New York, John has ser\'ed as president, sccretar>-, treasurer and director. He was general chairman of Universal Notre Dame Night in 1957 when Father Hesburgh ad­dressed the group in Syracuse. 
John is a member of the Board of Found­ers of Bishop Foer>' Foundation, Inc., and chairman of the board of CYO of the Diocese of Syracuse. Associate • general chairman of the 5600,000 school fund drive of Most Holy Rosary* Parish in Syracuse, he was president of the Holy Name Society for two years. 
A prominent Syracuse lawjer, John is with the firm of Smith and Sovik, a member of the American and New York State Bar Associations. To accept his new position, he will relinquish his 11-year position as super­visor of the 12th ward in Syracuse and his membership on the Board of Supervisors of Onondaga County, where he enjoys the dis­tinction of being the youngest person ever to be elected to membership in that group. He is retiring as president of the U.S.O. of Syracuse and Onondaga Count>- (N.Y.) He has also ser\'ed the county on the Mental Health Board, Committee on Alcoholism and Citizens Committee of Childrens Court. He received his law degree at Syracuse University after ser\Mng in the Army in 
W. W. II, winning four battle stars in the European Theater as well as tlie Bronze Star with cluster and the Purple Heart. 
John will occupy offices in Albany and New York City but will maintain his home in SyTacuse where his wife Jean, and three daughters, Jean, Lynn and Susan, will con­tinue to reside. 
Jack is now the Eastern sales manager for a firm 
that supplies equipment for manufacturing pens. 
He travels a great deal but since his ollice is nearby^ 
we do see eacli other frequently. Jack has fi\t.. 
children, all about the same age as mine. 
"I think Jack will have the top stor>- at the Re­

union. That is about the nigbt wc received a 
phone call at 2:00 a.m. It was JOE FAR.MER, 
calling from Idlewild Airport. He and JIM KANE 
had just arrived from Chicago. It seems they stop­
ped for a cocktail after work, and about four hours 
later decided to have their nightcap in New York 
with their old friend Rocky. The stor>' goes on 
from there—long into the night, but Jack can 
have that honor in June. 
"BILL ROGERS: Bill sells all of us our insur­ance now. We sec quite a bit of him, naturally. Bill also has five, but his oldest is now in High School! . ^ 
"JACK KELLY: Jack left the attonie>' generarJ* office and is now very successful in insurance law. .Among others, he represents ANDY Bx\RBIERE*s Company. Jack promised me that he would work hard this year to have a pre-reunion dinner. 
"JOHN KE.\RNEY: We ver>- seldom see John, but he keeps in touch with J.-\CK KELLY. I real­ly do not know what he is doing, but I understand he is still single. 
"ED DOWLING: We ver>- seldom ever see Ed — as a matter of fact, we never see Ed. He is still with the purchasing department of Pan-.\merican Air\\'ays, and still lives in New Hyde Park. 
"ExVRL ENGLERT: We used to see Earl regu­larly until lie went back to Louisville. He worked^ closely with JIM FINNER.AN who was an old classfl mate of mine at Chaminade. Jim. like Earl, is an Engineer working here in New York. 
"TONY BILOTTI (Boom Boom): is with the .American Chicle Company. I do not see much of Tony hut I should since his company is one of our larger customers. 
"RICHIE NIEMIER.\: I was in Chicago last year and talked with our old friend Richie. He was coaching basketball at Weber High and at that time he was on his way to the city championship. 
"BUD AHE/\RN: Last we heard Buddy was as­sistant principal at Foxboro High School, and still single. 
"JIM TORPEY: We haven't seen Jim since his wedding, but cver>* time we get together, we al­ways raise at least one for Old Trop. Tlie last w~J did hear, Jim was teacliing in the New York School Sv'stem assigned to a special school, I believe, in Yonkcrs or vicinity. Sure would like to see him again. 
"LYLE JOYCE: AVe see Lylc evx-ry time his brother comes to speak at an Alumni affair. He is now living in New York and teaching speech at St. John's University. 
"FRxVNK ENGLISH: Frank was running the family Chrv'slcr Dealership in New Rochelle, but I haven't seen him in almost two years. He also has five or six cliildren. 
"BOB MoXULIFFE: I haven't seen Bob since the last reunion, but as you know, he is practicing law in Syracuse. • ^^ 
"ANGELO BERTELLI: I usually see Angelo a 3 all the athletic events, football dinners, etc. I don't think he has changed at all except possibly the shape of his head, which seems to be thinning out at the top. Bert is running two or three ''Package Shops" in Jcrse\' in addition to doing the radio on Rutgers and Princeton football g^mes and making speeches at banquets. He also likes the All-Havana cigars now rather than the old 3 for 10c type. 
BILL BOSS and BILL HARTFORD are both re­cent arrivals in town but wc haven't seen much of them." 
"Thanks, Duffy, for all of the news. You gave "the column" a real assist this trip! 
And now without fear of repetition, I again (an.j# for the last time!) urge each and every '44 man*" to stand up and be counted on June 12 at N. D.l I personally guarantee a memorable experience. 
See you at the reunion! 
GEORGE 

P. S. .A. few last minute reunion notes: Now it can be told. . . Those mysterious postcards from England, Italy, Germany, Hau-all, etc., were the braincliild of TO.M ROLFS, the West Bend, Wis., leather king, who mailed them from his overseas sales outlets. . . Reaction has been just as wild, e.g., a note to "Hawaiian Herman" from "Gustav" suggesting "a three-day layout here" on a picture postcard showing DICK .MILLER*s Rochester, N.Y.. Funeral home. . . Wc hope to sec FR. ALVA^^ HEURING, a '44 M.A., who recently lectured to the N.C.C.M. convention in Detroit on finances of his St. Nicholas parish In Ex'ansdale, Io;va. . . From REV. .MARK G. .\fcGR.\TH, C.S.C., St. 
Gcorgc*s College, Ave. Pedro de ValdiWa 1423, San­tiago, Chile: "Lend me a jet plane (and pilot) for ^ fcu' days and I can maice the I5th reunion. If 
you can't, then greet all the original 44'ers In my name and with the promise of the prayers of this classmate sent by God to preach and teach in finis tcrrae (the end of the earth)." . . . JIM CUX­NINGH/VM won't have quite so far to come, but he's no longer in Chicago; having practically rebuilt the South Side as executive director of the Hyde Park-Kenwood Community Conference, Jim has moved to Pittsburgh to become associate director for community organization of Action-Housing, Inc., the Smoky City's urban renewal project, under an­other X. D. man, executive director BERNARD E. LOSHBOUGH. . . JOE DILLON, mentioned above as back in the fold and reunion-bound, has supple­
t
icnted his vicc-prcsldenc>" of Great Lakes Distrib­ting Corp., by election to the board of directors of the Upson Co., Lockport, N.Y., wood products manufacturer. . . Ex-Xew Yorker MIKE ZORO­^^CH, who went to Florida for a "winter" that has lasted 13 years and four children, is now the second largest rcady-mixed concrete operator on the "Gold Coast** with his own quarry, nine plants, 70 trucks and a "business" plane that gets him to home football games and reunions; he'll pick up JERRY GAFFXEY (with Martin Aircraft in Balti­more) and swoop into South Bend June 12; Mike is very active in the Miami X. D. Club, in\-ites all vacationing classmates to partake of their hospital­ity. . . GENE SLEVIN reports back in as vice-president of Mar\*in Hult Associates, a Peoria ad 
V^enc\'; was recalled for Korea; now has a wife and daugliter, and expects to join us on the campus. . . . WARREN "DUKE" LExVRY is checked in by his wife Pat; he is publisher of the Rice Lake, Wis., Chronotype, northern Wisconsin's largest weekly; is a bank director, cubmaster and cliurch league Softball coach; but Warren's biggest news is his sixth heir. Sheila Margaret, who joined Jim, Mike, Anne, Clare and Kit in February. . . See you all in Morrisscy Hall. — G.A.B. Jr. 
(Ed Note: Congratulations to COM.MISSIONER BARISCILLO on his managing a highly successful 
N. D. Glee Club concert sponsored by the K. of C. in Aiburv' Park. J. L.) 
^ From the .-Mumni Oflicc: Stratton & Tersteggc Company's Board of Direc­tors elected JAMES L. MErVGHER as executive xice-president of the company. Jim has been a vice-president sinc e 19 5 7, and general manager of the An­chor Division, manu­facturers of garden furniture, fireplace fix­tures, and heating equipment. Jim, a native of Valparaiso, Ind., ser\'­cd in tlie X*a\y as Lieutenant, Junio r Grade, during World War 11. He has been with Stratton & Ter­steggc since October 1946 and was a salesman in the Tennessee territory. He later became sales manager of the Anchor Divi­sion. He and Mrs. Meaglier and their six daugh­ters and one son live at 4021 Brookficid Avenue, Louisville, Ky. 
104 5 ^^ Lcsmcz •** 122 Tullamorc Rd. Garden Qty, N. Y. 
From the Alumni Office: Congratulations to Class Secretary AL LESMEZ, whose "fortunate year" is detailed in tiie "Spot­light Alumnus" column. Washington State Senator PATRICK SULLIVAN of Seattle was recently named to the State Public Service Commission. 
Attorney JIM CLYNES, as an equal ou*ncr and executive vice-president of the I\y Broadcasting Co., Inc., of Ithaca, N. Y., recently nailed down a §500,000 deal to purchase Radio Station WOLF in Itliaca. Formerly of X'cw York, Jim is Ithaca's dty attorney, secretary of Station WTTCO and at­
torney for Station WEBO. 
W BERNARD E. GOTTA, JR., has been named gen­eral agent for a ne%v agency of Massachusetts Mu­tual Life in Fort Wayne, Ind. Bemie, a G.L.U., has served Fort \Vaync's Lincoln National Life as a regional manager in Chicago and Texas. 
ALVARO V. LESMEZ, '45 G>To Genius 
Alx-aro V. Lesmez has been promoted to 

the new position of publications superin­
tendent in the Countermeasures Division 
of the Sperr\* Gyroscope Company, Great 
Xeck, N. Y. His duties will include com­
plete responsibility for all Countermeasures 
publications, handbooks, reports, etc. 
Al joined the company in 1950, as a 

technical writer in the Air Armament sec­
tion of the Publications Department. In 
1953, he was promoted to senior technical 
writer, and in 1954 he became associated 
with the Aeronautics section as a group 
leader. He was promoted to publications 
production supervisor in the Aeronautical 
Equipment Division in 1955, assuming re­
sponsibility for all types of publications in­
cluding the typing, technical illustrating 
and associated layout, and internal and 
external printing. In 1957 he was ap­
pointed to the new position of reports super­
visor in the Air Armament Division. 
Before joining Sperr>- he ^vas an assistant operations engineer for Pan-American World .Airways. In addition to his flight and engineering duties, Al wrote the flight manuals used in PA.\ commercial flights. 
An aeronautical engineer at Notre Dame, Al earned a masters degree in industrial engineering in 1949 from New York Uni­versity. He has taught evening courses at Adelphi College and has also been active in adult education programs. 
He is a member of the American Ord­nance Association, the I. A. S., the Societ>* of Technical Writers and Editors, and is editor of the Notes, a news monthly of the New York STWE Chapter. His extracur­ricular activities include being Glass Sec­retary for the Class of '45, an officer of the Notre Dame Club of New York and chair­man of its Trust Fund. He is active in the Citizens' Recreation Committee in Garden Cit>-, N. Y. 
Al lives in Garden City with his wife Bett>-, formerly of Bayside and Flushing. 
194 A Jack Tenge, Jr. 
• »-w 2025 W. Six Mflc Rd. Detroit 3, Michigan 
From the Alumni Office: REV. GLENN R. BOAR.\fAN, C.S.C., as Notre Dame's Prefect of Religion, continues to amuse and amaze with his colorful Religious Bulletin. Father Boarman has added the **circus" makeup and off­beat art of a big city tabloid and kept some of the trenchant commentary' made famous by CARDI­NAL O'HARA and hts successors, including REV. CHARLES M. CAREY. C.S.C. 
194 7 Jack MOcs 
• '^' 3218 BenUcy Lane South Bend 15, Indiana 
Congratulations from the Class of '47, with which he graduated, to JOHN McHALE, new general manager of the Milwaukee Braves; the hi^ly­regarded Johnny no longer claims us as his own, but I know your good wishes go with him. 
(If you are a Giant, Pirate, Red, Cardinal, Cub. Dodger, or Phillies fan, of course, the wishes are necessarily modified to some degree!) 
RIO REPORT 

Another deserter from his graduating class, )L\J. JOHN REGAN, '43, was in South Bend visiting his in-laws recently (he married the former Vidd Kie­rcin in 1945); he is ending a 38-month tour of duty in Rio dc Janeiro with paratroops and expects to return stateside later this siunmer. 
The need for medical attention was about the only thing that brought John and Vicki back from fabulous Rio prematurely, and many*s the hour John will dream of Sugar Loaf, In all probability, while desk-confined in his next assignment. 
He asked particularly to be remembered to NOEL DIGBV and to JACK HUPF; the latter was last heard from with Sears & Roebuck in Seattle, but he belies his journalist training by his continued re­fusal to write even a Hupfy note to this old classmate of his. Come on, Jack. . . I'll gi\'e you a free copy of John Regan's address in exchange for a line or two from you. 
FROM BUENOS AIRES 

This edition is liable to end up in Spanish, for another report has filtered northward from South America. When the snow was deepest and the tem­perature the lowest during oiu* past severe winter, cometh a postcard from SAM ADELO "enjoying the wonderful summer sunshine" in the Argentine capital of Buenos Aires. Thanks a lot, Sam! 
REQUIESCAT. . . 

Word readies us of the death earlier this year in Albuquerque of the wife of PAUL DELKER, '49; Paul started at Notre Dame with many of us in 1944, and in your names I extend to him our deep­est sympathy and assurance of prayers for the re­pose of her soul. 
COLLEGE BOWL No one was more elated when Notre Damc*s quartet won the GE College Bowl championship re­cendy, nor more dejected when it blew the duke to a feminine contingent from Barnard a week later in ^Vashington Hall, than Public Info Director JIM MURPHY. Jim had envisioned all sorts of gratuitous pub­licity as the Irish team stayed on the program for sc\*eral consecutive weeks, but it was not to be. ^furphy was In charge of arrangements for the single telecast, however, and did his usual com­petent job. 
LOTTERY "WINNER" .Although deadline for this column is too dose to receipt of the Alarch ALUMNUS to know if we're going to hear from DICK DEEB In response to last Issue's plea, we're pulling another name from the hat. This time our fumbling fingers come up with the name BOB NL\CDONNELL; how arc things mth you and the rest of the Detroiters, Bob? We'll look forward to hearing from you. (Ed. Note: This may kill you. Jack, but Bob is another deser­ter — to the ranks of reunioning '44.) 
NE^V ADDRESSES 

The following have changed addresses recently: WILLLAM P. COSGROVE; CAPT. JOHN B. mv-NES; EDWIN A. KLARECKI; P.\TRICK L. McSHANE; WILLOUGHBY M. MARSHAIX; PHILIP H. REITHER; JACK D. ALEXANDER; THO.\IAS R. BRISTOL; FRANCIS A. CARR; 
NotTe Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 43 
KELLY F. COOK; WILLIAM P. COSGROVE; GERARD F. COWHIG; ALVIN B. FEUER; COR­NELIUS A. FOWLER; DR. AVILLIAM H. COR­NER, JR.; JOHN* R. GOOD; RUSSELL W. JEN­SEN; FRED A. JONES, JR.; a\R L A. JULIEN; FRANCIS M. KOB.AY.-VSHI; LAWRENCE J. L\-NCH; JAMES S. McGURK; JOHN J. MUL­LEN; J.\.\!ES J. .MUSSELMAN; RICHARD H. PEARSE; OTTO A. SH.ANDER, JR.; FRANCIS 
J. SHANNON; DR. THOMAS E. SNYDER; JOHN 
L. TOKICH; RICHARD J. UNGASHICK, and CHARLES E. Z.VNGERLE, JR. 
And the Ft. Lauderdale club sccrctarv- reports JACK HOUGHTELING and PAUL GLASS, '40. are partners in the Sorin Hall Advertising Agency in that city. Obviously, memories of Notre Dame da\-s linger on with Jack and Paul. 
WORD TO THE AVISE. . . 
If you don't write, you're wrong. A few words of news from YOU may start a cliain reaction of news items fnim your friends. So who'll vohmlccr to be detonator and write the first letter? 
From the .-Mumni Office: FRANK R. BE/\UDINE has been appointed in­dustrial engineering manager, Montgomery Ward & Co. Frant will be rcsponsjljlc for the dcvelopmcnl and administration of _ a company-wide in-dust r i a I engineering program. He was for­merly a consultant with ^^cKinsey & Co., a national manage­ment consulting lirni. and indiLstrial engi­ncerin'^ manager of the U. S. Rubber Co. plant at Mishawaka, Ind. Frank lives with his wife and four children at 32 8 Lo­thair Wav, Long Beach. Ind. DONALD J, HEREFORD, JR., was recently ad­vanced in rank to lieutenant commander in. the 
U. S. Navy while serving aboard the attack carrier Hancock after two tours of the Far East. Don. hts wife Betty and their two children make their home in California for the time being. 
HARRY FORD, JR., because of his name, is re­markable enough as a senior project engineer for General Motors' Detroit Diesel Engine Division, but be lias also co-authored an article on fuel economy with improved Diesel engines in the GM Engineer­ing Journal. 
1 948 ^^^^ Dcfant 
University of Notre Dame Press Notre Dame, Ind, 
The news of EARL MULLEN's death in ^linne­apolis came as a shock. He died Januar>- 11 of leu­kemia. Surviving are his wife, Janet, four cliildren, his parents, and two sisters. Earl, a war veteran, was employed by General Electric in Sioux Falls and Minneapolis. Those of you who want to have Masses said and wish to notify the widow can do so at 6029 Kellogg Avenue, South, Minneapolis 24, Minnesota. 
JOHN YONAKO R has been appointed superin­tendent of the general labor department of Repub­lic Steel Corporation's Cleveland plant. He joined the company in 1956. After winning an AIl-Amcri­can berth as a right end in 1943, he served with the Marines in the South Pacific He played pro football with the old New York Yankees and with the Washington Redskins, as \vell as with Canadian teams. 
LAWRENCE E. TURNER i n donned the old scliool tic for this preview of things to come 'long about 1977. Papa L.\RRY TURNER, JR., or "Bud" to his bud­dies, is practicing law in Indianapolis. 
Congratulations to JERRY HEKKER for taking unto himself a wife on April 5 in Darien, Conn. She is the former Corinne Abbazia, and the Hekkcrs honeymooned in the lo­mantic Caribbean. Jcrrv- must be among the last of the class to join the ranks of the benedicts. Or arc there still quite a few holding out? Jcrr>-, an 

44 Notre Dame AlumnuSj Juncj 1959 
JOHN R. PANELLI, '49 Pep in the Presidency 

In recent months Monogram Club Presi­dent John Panelli is rumored to have been so busy that h*s family referred to him as a boarder in transit. The principal activity was breaking in a ncv/ sales force for his burgeoning business, an activity quite dif­ferent from that of ten years ago. 
In Januar>', 1949, the same month he was graduated, John broke through the Western line often enough to be voted the most valuable player in that year's East-West Shrine football game. He signed for professional football and distinguished play for the Detroit Lions and Chicago Cardinals until 1953, combined with law studies at Notre Dame and off-season work in the brokerage and securities business. 
In 1954 John entered the construction equipment business for a local distributor in Detroit. He displayed such enterprise and leadership that manufacturers encouraged him to open his own equipment house. Thus the J. R. Panelli Equipment Co., Inc., was founded in 1957, with John as president. Representing a dozen leading manufacturers of construction and industrial equipment, the Panelli Co. sells, rents and ser\-ices ever>*thing from tiny tools and ac­cessories to huge earthmovcrs, cranes and mixers. 
Elected president of the N.D. Monogram Club last summer, John has been active for many years in the Notre Dame Club of Detroit and is presently on the board of directors. 
"Pep." as John is commonly known, re­turned to the campus in July of 1950 for marriage in Sacred Heart Church to Mar­garet Ann Petrass, alumna of St. Mar>*'s and daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Andrew Petrass of South Bend. With their three children, John Andrew, Andrew Petrass and Velma Marguerite, the Panellis hold camp at 1991 S. Bates, Birmingham, Mich. 
old hand at this sort of thing, came through with a few suggestions to ease the tribulations of your class secrciaiy despite all the furor of getting hita^ self ready for the ceremony. He sa>"s it would be interesting to know, nnw that new stars are or about to be added to the flag for Alaska and Ha­.waii (July 4), If anyone of you is residing in these new slates; lie also wonders if any of you will be celebrating Fathcr*s Day for the first time this year. 
Recently promotcrd within the engineering or­
ganization cf New Departure Division, General 
Motors Corporation, is PETER J. B.-\KER. A na­
tive of Rockville. Conn., Pete has been afliliated 
with New Departure for the past 11 years. In his 
new assignment with the ball bearing firm he is in 
charge of project a-j-isiimcnt and test report control 
in product engineering. lie is married, has five chil­
dren, and resides at 131 Sherwood Road, Bristr^ 
Conn. ^ 

Two well-known classmates are back on campus as members of the faculty and staff, having distin­guished themselves out in the cold and cruel. They should be around for a long, long time. Parasitolo­gist DR. RALPH THORSEN is ba=k as head of the biology department of the Colle,:;e "f Science and. as such, director of the newly-integrated Lo­bund Institute (that's Laboratories of Bacteriology-, U.N'.D., for Liberal .Arts and Commerce men), in the last 11 years Ralph has been an instructor at Johns Hopkins, a researcher for .-Vmerican Cyana­tiiid, an assistant, associate and full professor at Alabama Polytechnic Institute (Auburn). DAVE SLATTERY has joined the stafT of Coach JO' S KUHARICH, *38. as his executive secretary-. Da\% is a former Washington. D. C, sports scribe. Wel­come aboard, men. 
Henri, Hurst & McDonald. Inc., Chicago adver­tising agenc\% announces the appointment of JOHN 
B. McKEON as director of the business research department, a new position. The department will provide trade research, market analyses and biLsi­ncss counsel for agenc>- clients. 
Fonnerly with management consulting and appli­ance firms, John holds a Master of Business Ad­ministration and Marketing degree from the Uni­versity of Michigan. He and his wife and two children reside at 2032 Central .*\venuc, WiLuctte, Illinois. 
The last issue of the ALU.MNUS u^s hardly of-^ the press when old Simon Legree, no other thal^ JOHN LJXUGHLIN. started cracking the whip at the class secretaries to get their copy in by April I. That accounts to some degree for the skimpiness of the MS column. In the next few weeks a ques­tionnaire will be mailed, but only to a part of the class at interx-als to a\-oid an a\-alanche of re­turns from the entire class at one time. Whether you arc among the first or last to get the ques­tionnaire, please give with the \-ital statistics. And if >-ou have any news before you get the question­naire, send it in w-itliout waiting for the question­naire. 
JUNE 12-13*1/^ 

194 9 John Walker 
• ' 826 Wing St. ;^ Elgin, Illinois 
From the .-Mumni Office: Appointed local chairman of the lO-Year Reunion of the Class of '49 was Cr\RLOS CORONA, son of modern languages Professor JOSE CORONA, and personnel-placement whiz for the Bendix missile di­vision in Mishawaka. Carlos has consulted with former chairman FRANK SULLIVxVN and can promise a gala week end. The Class will hang out at highly accessible Alumni Hall and dine Friday night either in the new North Dining Hall or the Alumni-Dillon courtyard. Saturday morning a Memorial Mass will be said for all departed Myers by FATHER JI.M SHILTS, a well known ph>-sicis'^ priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross and :lii[? Class of '49. son of civil engineering Professor WAL­TER SHILTS. With all these campus tics — plus golf, college meetings, campus tours, the .-Mumni Banquet, box lunches and plenty of foamy liquid 
refreshment — the week end couldn't help but be ^ success. Carlos is expecting you on June 12. tt Orchids arc in order for several '49ers, perhaps 
fint for JOHN MOWBRAY, the Las Vegas lawTcr. appointed district judge in April. Named by Neva­da's Governor Grant Sawyer lo the eighth judicial district court in Clark County, John otHcially took the bench on April 20. 
Already a "Spotlight Alumnus," John had hern scr\ing as federal referee in bankruptc>* since 1957 and previously had serxcd as chief deputy to the district attorney. lie was named to succeed the late Judge P..yland Taylor. 
John took his pre-Iaw at Northwestern. A W.W. • II veteran, he served with tlic U. S. government in post-war Korea. His wife is the former Kathlyn Ilamnics, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Romy Ilammcs. 
^Q'hcy have four children. 
" DICK FRIEND, head football coach at South Bend's St. Joseph High School for the past two years, resigned to accept a position on the staff of Colorado Slate College in Greelo', Colo., and will complete graduate work toward a doctorate in edu­cation. Dick's two-year record at St. Joe shows nine victories and 10 defeats. In six seasons (the other four at Loras College, Dubuque, la.; Mon­terey Peninsula College, Monterey, Calif., and Tarcntum, Pa., High) his teams Iiave posted 40 wins and 16 losses. His teams have won three con-. fcrence crowns. Dick and Ins wife Irene will move to Colorado in August. 
FR^VNK SULLIV.'VN, mentioned above, is a win­die r on several counts. Frank was general chair­^Piiau of a highly successful United Fund Torch 
Drive in St. Joseph County last fall. Also, as South Bend agenc\' manager for /Vmerican United Life In­surance Co., he has been awarded the professional designation of chartered life undenvriler (C.L.U.) by the American College of Life Underwriters. The designation is achieved through passing a five-year study course with annual examinations under the supervision of the college. He is a five-year mem­ber of the Million Dollar Round Table of the Na­tional Assn. of Life Undenvritcrs. Frank's latest honor was being named Notre Dame Man of the Year by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley on Universal Notre Dame Night, celebrated .April 21. 
The O'Brien Corporation, paint manufacturer, an­

nounce s that BERNARD M. ELL of Hartford, Conn., was the single winner in a special sales quota contest conducted among the O'Brien sales organization during the year 1058. 
As a reward for his superlative selling effort last year, Mr. and Mrs. Ell have been awarded an all-paid expense trip to Bermuda. 
Ilie technical division of Pcnnsalt Chemicals Cor­poration has hired DR. R.VLPH L. HERBST, JR., as Supervisor of Market Development. 
A World War II Army veteran, Dr. Hcrbst has held academic, industrial and laboratory* manage­ment posts, most recently as head of monomer and polymer market development for Borden Chemical Co. for four years. He is the author of four rc­
^^earch papers and has fifteen patent assignment ap­
^^lications to his credit. He is a member of the American Chemical Society and Researcli Society of America. Dr. Herbst makes his home at 2410 Edge-hill Road, Huntington Valley, Pa., with his wife, Mar>', and four children, Ralph, III; Jonathan, Paula, and Heather. 
ALL/\N S. MILLER has been promoted to staff physicist in the semiconductor device department of the IBM Product Development Laboratory* at Pougli­keepsie, N.V., where he is now investigating the photosensitive properties of semiconductors. Dr. Miller joined IBM as an associate physicist in April, 1957. A veteran of three years sei^ice with the U. S. 
^Na\y, he is a member of the American Physical 
^Rociety. Dr. and Mrs. Miller, who arc parents of two daughters, reside at 36 Shamrock Circle, Pough­
kccpsie. 
BILL EGGBEER is back in South Bend again as assistant director of the public relations division of MacDonald-Cook Company, South Bend and Chi­cago advertising ageno'. 
Having worked as a salesman at Ellsworth's De­partment Store in South Bend during his college years. Bill accepted a job as credit manager of that store upon graduation. But after a year's stay, he was beckoned again by the Marine Corps and senxd another tour of duty during the Korean War. 
Back home again in Indiana in 1951, Bill took a 

job as managing editor of the Argos Reflector. In 
^95 2 he purchased the paper from RONALD S. O'­
^P-IEILL, who joined the Notre Dame faculty. (O'Neill now teaclies advertising in tlie marketing school. College of Commerce.) Late last year. Bill sold the Argos Reflector and in January' he joined the public relations division 
ORfVNGE COUNTY—From left, Maurice "Clipper" Smith, '22, beams approval as Dick Coury, '51, receives 1st annual "Man of the Year" from N.D. Club of Orange County (Calif.) upon presentation by Father Michael Hanlon, principal of Afater Dei High where Dick teaches and coaches and has brought several Parochial League titles in the past few years. Cour>- was ako named incoming secretary of the club for 1959-1960. "Clipper" was the principal speaker for the dinner-dance. 
of MacDonald-Cook Company as assistant director. 
Bill and his artist-wife, the former Jeri Franklin, 

have three children, two boys and a girl. The fam­
ily currently live in Argos, Ind., but plan to move 
to South Bend in the near future. 
1950 ^'^^^'^ ^- ^^*^ 
47 Emerson Road Glen Rock, New Jersey 
Since friend husband is still on the merry-go­

round (and probably will stay there as long as these 
five little bodies running around need to eat and 
be clothed) I lake typewriter in hand once again 
in my capacity as ghost alumnus. 
No great deluge of mail makes my task any 

easier so I am forced to resort to ancient historv­
once again. Rummaging around in the "active" 
file I ran across a couple of letters that I missed 
for the last *'catch-up" column. 
JOHN AL\CHINCHICK wrote, in November of 

'57, that he and his wife Kit "have two monsters, 
I mean youngsters. Kathy 4'/2 and Jimmy 3. Jim­
my's built like a running guard and I'm feeding 
him vitamins to make him grow and jumping 
beans to make him faster." 
Back then John was a ^'section supcr\*i5or in ma­chinery* engineering at the (Ford) Dearborn Stamp­ing Plant and slowly but steadily going nuts in a maze of presses, welders and portable guns." 
Again, it was November of '57 when we received a nice note from JOHN DUG^VN and Ann announc­ing the birth of their first cluld a girl, Ann Lee, in Evanston, 111. John was then associated with the Chicago division of the Pcrmutit Co. as a sales en­gineer. 
That really is the end of the news we've been keeping under wraps so long. The next issue will be filled (we trust) with new and newsy news. 
GENE PHILLIPS and his wife had a daughter, their first child, whom they named Theresc Ellyn, bom on Nov. 11, 1958. Gene is an engineer with the National Machinery Co. of Tiflin, Ohio. 
El and IVO FATIG.ATI are two souls after my own heart. We received a Christmas card from llicm in January* with a note saying they had just been too busy getting ready for the holy day to get the cards out before Christmas. They have two little characters sitting in their laps in the picture who are Greg and their new addition, Ann TTicresc. 
Post-Christmas mail also brought a letter from Sweetie and BOB MURPHY which wc enjoyed so much we shall quote at great length from same. 
Sweetie writes "the viialest statistic of the year was our no. 4 Child of God, Clare Louise, who came into our realm .April 9. At 8 montlis, she is one of those blessed babies who do Nothing—-doesn't 
crawl, teethe, creep, stand. Not sensational, mind 
you, but most enjoyable! 
*'f\s for the other children (Jean, Mark, and 

Muffin) at ages l'/™, 2/3, 4/= years, they are all ad­
dicted to unlaced shoes, band-aids, wakefulness, the 
refrigerator light, Ajax, toothpaste tubes, switches 
of all types, raisins, the other fellow's toys, and the 
fascinating aspects of water on the loose. 
"While waiting for Mr. Wm. Allen {Pres. of 

Boeing & Co.) to retire Bob is working on an ex­
perimental weather plane. (We refer to him a£ 
Balloon Boy.) His domestic accomplishments in­
clude finbhing the basement wreckreation room, 
painting the exterior of the house, and building 3 
play house for the children. In his spare time he 
goes around tr>'ing to convince people that the Fran­
ciscan Tliird Order is an order intended for yoim^ 
people. (It is locally referred to as the Sunset 
Club.)" 
We ^vould like to ask your prayers for Pat Mur­

phy and her children. Pat is a sister-in-law of 
DAVE MURPHY, '48; DON MURPHY, '49; BOB 
MURPHY, '50, and FR.ANK MURPHY. '58. Their 
brother Edward recently died of leukemia. 
Another birth announcement recei%'ed tells of the 
birth of Janis Elaine ^Veigand on March 4, 1959, tt> 
Jackie and BERNIE WEIGAND. 
In an enclosed note Jackie writes, "Bernic has just received his Ph.D. in chemistry from Western Reser\-e in Cleveland. In October we moved here ti> Whittier (Calif.) where Bcrnie is employed by American Potash. Now with the arrival of our fourth child we are still at the 'trying to get set­tled' stage." 
That is all the words I have to transmit this time. With your help, next issue should be bulging. 
From the Alumni Office: BERNARD LEE ^VEIG.AND picked up a chemis­try* Ph.D. in February from Western Reserve. HARRY MONAHAN, who was runner-up by an e>'clash In the Alumni Board elections, ^vrote to thank us for promoting him. "Somebody left out an important word in listing my position ^vith the San Diego Union," wrote Harry. '*I am a sports makeup editor — there are four of us on The Union's staff — not the sports editor. . . Please don't consider thb a complaint. I ^vrestlc daily with the same typo and deadline problems here and I've put in some time in the Ave's composing room 
— so you've got my deepest sympathies.'* Harry, please consider this the "small correction notice" you requested. Rev. Mr. a\R L LOVELING writes from St. Bernard Seminary, Dubuque, la.: *'My or­dination will be in Davenport at the Sacred Heart Cathedral, on Saturday, June 6, at 10 a.m. .. . for the Davenport diocese by Bishop Ralph L. Hayes." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 2959 45 

Carl's first Moss will be at his home church, St. Mar\*'s in Fort Madison. la., a second at 6 p.m. at St. Joseph's in the same town. Carl invites any and all classmates for his first blessing at a recep­tion in Sacred Heart Hall tlic afternoon of June 7. ED FOLEY'S wife recently presented him with a seventh heir in South Bend. The secret of Ed's quick progress is a set of triplets a couple of years ago. CHARLES \\\ ST.-XXLEY, a grad student with the class, is now the senior nuclear cliemist with the Afidwcst Rcscarcli Institute in Kansas City, Mo., and gave a major address on the uses of isotopes at the Midwest Industrial Isotopes Conference spon­sored by the .'VEC and Kansas State College. Spe­cial congratulations to J.AMES CONU'.AY, named McPherson, Kas., outstanding young man and win­ner of the Jaycces Distinguished ser\"icc award. Jim is a builder of homes, an officer and industrial de­velopment chairman for his Chamber of Commerce and a leader in several community projects. 
195 1 Robert J. Klingenberger 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. Wayne, Indiana 

From the Alumni Office: .Appointed to the staff of Midwest Research Insti­tute was NG CHUNC-W.\H as assistant analyst in the mathematics and phvsics division. He is a me­chanical engineer. DR. JAMES H. GRIESMER, celebrated in the last issue, has already been trans­ferred by IBM as staff mathematician in the infor­mation research department at the Lamb Estate Rc­scarcli Center. He will continue in the research mentioned last time. \Vc don't know how the elec­tions turm-d out. but in Chicago's city ballot this spring WALTER J. TURNER had the all-out sup­port of the Chicago Daily News in his bid for al­derman of the I8th Ward. Waller puts out a string of South Side business directories, runs an ad agcnc\' and is a former newspaper publisher. REV. RUDOLPH V. CARCHIDI, C.S.C.. chairman of the boy's unit math department at Notre Dame High in Bridgeport, Conn., has received a National Science Foundation grant to do advanced work in math at Harvard. .An active member of the Na­tional Council of Teacliers of Mathematics, Father Carchidi got an .A.B. at N. D., also studied at Portland and Fordham Universities, was ordained in 1955 and also taught at Father Baker High in Buf­falo. N.Y. JOHN J. McKELVEY has been pro­moted to research consultant by the Prudential In­surance Co., Newark, N. J. John has an M.B.A. from Rutgers, is married and lives at 1I5B Hastings Ave., Rutherford. N. J. 
1 95 2 Harry L. Buch ^ ^ 600 Board of Trade Bldg. ^Vhccling, West Virginia 
Ll. PHIL EVEREST, U.S.N., is presently an in­structor in the art of jet flying at Pcnsacola. Fla. He is married and has one daughter. D.AVE BUD­DINGER, his wife and three children arc in Rork­ford. III. Dave is selling for a steel companv. HARRY FOSTER, wife Ruth and son Danny are holding forth in Michigan City, Ind. Harr>' is work­ing for Frank Leahy. BILL FISHER, still'single, is peddling electronic gear on the West Coast. He lives iu Santa Monica. Calif. BOB CROWE was traniferred to the West Coast last September, and is now a native of southern California selling high altitude oxygen equipment for the Firewell Com­panv. 
BERNARD A. LONCZ.AK died November 9, 1958. He is sur\-ived by his wife and one small son. Re­member him in your prayers. 
Mary Lou and BILL G.ALLO are the proud par­ents of a new daughter, Jean Marie. FRED HART­M.AN, Jr. and wife, Mary, have a new daughter, Suzettc Marie. His address is 5308 Rosslvn. Indian­apolis 20. Ind. JIM (CONNIE) HIGGINS is the proud father of a new daughter Jamie. At present Connie is working in Beckley, W. Va., establishing his own legal accounting firm. Associated with Con­nie in Beckley is JOHN GORM.AN. 
JOE COSTELLO and his wife, Marie, have three cliildren: one boy and two girls. At present Joe is li\ing in Chicago Heights, III. DO.MINIC (RED) CAL.ACCI is married, has one daughter and is presently working with the Aetna Life Insurance Company. JOE PEROZZI is practicing law in Chi­cago Heights. CHARLIE PAQUETTE, FR.ANK CARNEY, and DON WILLIAMS are employed by Pratt fi: Wiitncy Aircraft in East Hartford, Conn. Don is married and lives on RED. no. 2, c/o Porciicron, Manclicster, Conn. He and his wife, 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June^ 1959 
TOLEDO—Club members joined James Cooney, Toledo's oldest alumnus, on his 88th birthday. Reflecting the gaiety of the occasion are (I. to r.) Dick Donoghuc, Mr. Cooncy, Jim Malonc, and President Joe Hildcbrand. 
Gloria, have two girls. Frank is married and lives on Snipsic Lake Koad, Ellington, Conn. Charlie is married, has four children, and is presently living at 34 Chevcnne Road, Springfield, Mass. 
BOB JOYCE completed U.S.N. P.G. School, Air­nlogy and sei-ved two years as a forecast duty offi­cer in the Philippines. In 195G, he married a San Francisco girl and is presently living and working there. DEE McGONIGLE is presently ser\ing as 
C. O. Field Hospital Unit, Fort Meade, Md. He plans surgical residency upon release from the Army. PAT FLEMI.XG is married, has one child and has taken over as manager of the family Hard­ware Company after the death of his father. PHIL NLARONECK is working for a San Francisco En­gineering Firm and is living at 37 East 47th St., San -Mateo, Calif. TED PAULDING graduated from the University of Conn. Law School in June 1957, passed his Bar Exam, and is presently working with a Hartford Patent Law firm. He is living in Weth­ersfield, Conn. 
BILL OSBORNE is married and has two chil­dren. .At pri-sent he lives at 1117 5:h Ave., North. Clinton. la. He is still working for DtiPont; hut moved to Clinton in 1955. ROY MION is married and has one daughter. Tliey are living at 437 Kingsland .Ave., Lyndhursi. N.J . Irene and TONY .MESSINA are living at 1831 Pioneer Drive. West Covina. Calif. They have three children and Tony is working in the printing business. WALT LvVN-DRY, after studying Law at Georgetown, is pres­ently engaged iu the practice of law at New Or­leans. His address is 847 National Bank of Com­merce Building. New Orleans 12, La. 
CONNIE TETRAULT and wife are living at W Ticonderoga Drive. Warwick, R. I. .At present lie is working with G.E. 
TONY RUSSE was working with Cornell Research Institute while studying for a Master's Degree and building himself a home. Needless to say he is busy! His address is Bullis Road, Elma, N.Y. JERRY PEi\SSE is married and has one son. He is living at 383 Crystal Lake .Avenue, Crvstal, 111. TOM DIGAN is still working with IBM.' He and his wife arc expecting their fourth addition. JER­RY JINK.A received a Master*s of Science Degree in Engineering .Administration from Case Institute, is presently married, and living in Lakewood, Ohio. 
Tliis just about covers all the news I have. Some of you guys get on the ball and take a pen in hand and drop me a line giving your whereabouts and a little family history*. I'll do my best to report it in tlie next issue of the ALUMNUS. 
From the .Alumni Office: EUGE.VE F. FORAN, JR., got an LL.B. ihi:'i spring from tlie Stetson University College of LaV'^ in Deland. Fla. Gene hails from Decatur. III. Lt. (i-S-) JOSEPH P. BELLON of the U, S. Coast Guard Reserve has been released from active duty. Joe has been a combat info and watch officer and most recently has worked in officer procurement. He entered as a seaman apprentice in 1955 and immediately went to O.C.S. Previously, with an 
LL.B.
 from St. John's, lie was an assistant in the 

U.
 S. Attorney's Office in southern New York, co­authored a federal evidence manual, also worked for the .Attorney General in Washington as an honor law grad . Joe lives with wife Marie in Elmhurst, Long Island. N.Y. 


DAVID JUENKER, a Ph.D. in the Class, now an assistant professor of physics at N. D., has wor"^ an author's award from the National /Vssociatioii^ of Corrosion Engineers at a 1959 banquet in Clii­cago. JOHN FURIN has been appointed to the newly created post of supervisor of sales for Viking .Air Products, Cleveland, Ohio. John is a member of the Cleveland N. D. Club's board of directors and was co-cliairman of the 1958 scholarship raf­fic. Before joining the furnace equipment company John was consumer sales manager for Central States Fabricating in South Bend. John, his wife and four children live at 425 Girard Drive. Berea. Ohio. Chicago's FR^\NK J. H.AE.\DLER has been ap­pointed a career foreign ser\"ice man by the Presi­dent. He has the rank of vice consul and secre-__ tary in the Diplomatic Ser\-ice. Since his A.M. fror,V" Columbia and two years in the army Frank has been with the Foreign Ser\'ice Institute preparing for an overseas assignment and lives at 3348 Pros­pect St., N.W., Washington, D.C. Congrats to quarterback flash JOHNNY .MASUR, late of ^rar­quctte, now backfield coach at Boston University. 
195 3 Thomas W. Reedy ' '^' ^ 337 AVagner Road Northfield, Illinois 
From the Alumni Office: LESTER J. H.ALSEMA sent an interesting note enclosing a photo used in this issue, showing bin* -. at Little America V, Antarctica, during the rcccni^ Operation Deep Freeze. Les was a Lt. (j.g.) at­tached to Admiral Dufek's staff as assistant infor­mation officer, was overhead in an .Air Force Globe-master C-124 photographing Capt. BILL "TRIG­
JOHNSON and RICHARD C. LaPATA, O.P., all became Dominican priests May 23 in Dubuque, Xa. Congratulations, Reverend Fathers. EDWARD R. O'CONNOR is an American vice consul in San 
OKLAHOMA CITY —From left, Club President Charles L. Monnot, Jr., welcomes two distinguished U.N.D. Night guests, Notre Dame Coach Joe Kuharich and Bishop Victor J. Reed of Oklahoma City 
^ and Tulsa. 
CER" HAWKES' historic landing at llic Pole de­scribed in a recent issue of NOTRE DAME, had his color photo printed in the National Geographic Magazine. Lcs is now assistant lo the director of public relations at Aerojcl-General Corp., fVziisa, Calif., lives in nearby Covins. 
KEN LUSKIN u-as married to Lynn Sullivan of Kansas City, Mo., back in September of 1955. and a baby boy. Patrick Joseph, was born to them on Aug. 31, 1958. They live in West Des Moines, la. 
REV. JOHN R. .\LADDEN was ordained by Bish­op Focr>- of Syracuse at that city's Church of the 
•^lessvd Sacrament on May 23, He celebrated his first Mass in his home church, St. John the Evan­gelist, Mav 24 in New Hartford, N.Y. 
L.V\VRENCE P. SULLIVAN, a grad student in physiology at the University of Michigan, was a member of a research team at his native Ann Arbor which developed a "slop-flow analysis of kidney function" to be used in diagnosing kidney disease, described by the Encyclopedia Brittanica's 1955 Yearbook as one of the past year's major adx-ances in physiologj'. 
THO.\L\S E. LORSON received his LL.B. from Washburn University, Topcka, Kas., Tom is mar­ried and has two children, has been working as a law clerk with Topeka's Alcoholic Beverage Com­mission. 
^ Indiana State Rep. ALEX LYSOHIR (D-Port­land) made quite a splash with his investigation and reform bill on "not-for-profit" laws. 
MICHIGAN CITY—Dave Slattcry, execu­tive secretary to Joe Kuharich, accepts a "ontribution to the University from William Priebe, president of the Notre Danie Club of Michigan City, Ind., at the annual ob­servance of Universal Notre Danie Night. 
TheCLASSof'Sil 
expects 
YOU 
affh( 
5th Year 
REUNION 

JUNE I2I3I4 
jn 
JUNE 12-1314 
•is*? m^m 

1 054 George A. Pflaum, Jr. 
• ' ^ 1705 Hari-ard Blvd. Dayton 6, Ohio 
From the Alumni Office: Secretary- GEORGE PFL.\UM, JR., and Local Chairman CONXIE SZUBERT have said just about all they can about the 5-Year Reunion. All tliat remains to be said is the above. The shearing of Con's Fidel Castro beard (surviving is a neat mous­taclie) must symbolize the completion of reunion preparations. See you there. Meanwhile, around the nation. . . . Three former *54s, Fathers JOSEPH DOMINIC NASH, PAUL 
Pedro Sula. Honduras, and can be reached c/o the Department of State. Washington 25. D.C. He was married last October 17 in St. Matthew's Cathe­dral, Washington, D.C. to Mary Louise Edelbach of St. Cloud, Minn., an alumna of the College of St. Benedict and Catholic U. They moved to Hon­duras in November, and Ed is looking up N. D. alumni tliroughout Central America. He taught ac the U. of Texas until he joined the Foreign Scr\'ice in 1956. FR^\NCIS X. ME.\NEY, editor of the '5t DOME and a magna cum laude, spent three years as a naval ollicer before entering Har\'ard Law School. Now in his second year, he's getting prac­tical experience with the Harvard Voluntary- De­fenders, who interview indigent criminal suspects for public defenders in Boston, throughout Massa­cliusctts and sometimes, by mail, throughout the country*. Tlicy handle nearly 500 cases a year, often help with acquittals or mitigated sentences. Publicist JIM KELLEHER, a partner in South Bend's Lindcr-Kcllcher & Co., was toastmaster for the fifth annual Achievement Forum .\ward dinner Mav 21- He's a former radio and newspaper writer. A Class Ph.D., DR. WILLIAM N. PATRICK, chemist and assistant patent counsel for Atomics International, Canoga Park. Calif., division of North .American Aviation, Inc., has been admitted to the California Bar. Dr. Patrick got his first two de­grees at the U. of British Columbia, Vancouver. After Notre Dame he worked in the patent dcpt. of the Ethyl Corp. in Detroit and started law school there, finishing at U.S.C. after joining .Atomics In­ternational. With his wife and two children he now lives at 19966 Friar St., Woodland Hills, Calif. HERBERT ^L AM.MERMULLER is a professional service representative in Manhattan for CIBA Phar­maceutical Products. Inc., having formerly been a pilot and legal officer with the U. S. Marines. Herb, his wife and two children live at 5 Terrace Circle, Great Neck. N.Y. Two '54s, DR. THONLAS 
F. .MOORE and DR. FREDERICK C. POEHLER, will Intern at South Bend's St. Joseph Hospital starting in July, having got their M.D.'s from Wa>Tic and Indiana U. respectlvclv. Deep svmpathv to DUKE R.\NK on the death of his father, HUGH 
A. RiVNK, a loyal N. D. supporter for many years and an active member of the Phocnbc N. D. Club, which did its best to help the family in the last hours. Surviving beside Duke, arc his widow Mar­garet and two other children, Michael and ^fary Margaret, plus four grandchildren, two brothers and a sister. Incidentally. Duke and his wife Lee now live at 1030 East Roma, Scottsdale, Ariz. 
IQCC Thomas F. O'Mallcy 
Kansas City, Mo. 

It Is again my sad duty to begin this column by-reporting the death of another of our classmates. LT. ^VNDREW FR:\NZONI, JR., was killed in a plane crash near Cherr>' Point, N.C., on March 6, 1959. May I sprak for his classmates and friends in assuring his parents that he will always be re­membered in our prayers. 
The class also extends its sympathy to L.-VRRY CORBETT on the death of his father, Lawrence Patrick, Sr. 
This promises to be a pretty skimpy column im­less I'm deluged with many sacks of mail in the next three hours. I might remind all those who-have never written, to write. .And to those who have written, write again. Meanwhile, I'll pass along the handful of information I've received since last time. 'One last thing, start making plans for the reunion now — June of 1960. Tell your wives that next year's convention is to be held in Joers Audi­torium, South Bend. 
Had a ver>- welcome visit from DICK O'DON­NELL who Is working for Benton & Bowles Ad­vertising agcnc>* in New York. Dick was passing-through after a business trip to the West Coast. We both donned our gray flannel suits, slipped into a dry martini, and spent the evening heckling the town's biggest attraction in many months, Ted (When My Baby Smiles at Mc) Lewis. WTicn Dick got back to Madison Avenue, he passed on the fol­lowing news. DICK RUTLEDGE Is working for his master's degree at the Univ. of California. LEE NEMECHEK is managing a supermarket In the San Diego area, and sees to it that Mother Hub­bard's cupboard is far from bare. Tell me Lee, is 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 47 

TULSA—The head table at Universal Notre Dame Night fcstinties of the N. D. Club of Tulsa included (I. to r.): Club President Jack Conway and Mrs. Conway; Joe Kuharich, N. D. head football coach; Bishop Victor J, Reed of the Oklahoma City-Tulsa Diocese; Gerald 
Dono\-an, master of ceremonies; Mrs. Donovan, and Club Chaplain 
margarine really belter than tliat *'70 cent spread"? 
JACK HOBLITZELL is still selling many Chc\To­lets, and has recently added to his inventory one little pinL Cor\ctle, by nanic, Jackie, Jr. 
CHRIS LARSEX is working for the Worthington Corp. and still finds time to attend Xew York Univ. Srad scliool at night. 
What e%cr happened to — jOHX MUSOLINO, DICK NORTOX, BILL McCULLOUGH, BOB KUXZE, JIM HOPP, DOX HUML, GEORGE HALKIAS, JIM WALLER, PAUL SQWA, DAVE BECK, BOB BROWX, KAY ALEXANDER, JOE CLUSSERATH, and WALT ZOTTER? 
TIic REV. MR. JOHX McM/\X.MOX, CS.C., sent a letter from Holy Cross College in Washing-con, D.C., and did a good job of bringing me up to date on the grads who arc soon to be, or al­ready have been ordained in the order. JOE O'­DOXXELL, CS.C, is in his third year of thc­olog>* at Holy Cross College also, and he passed on the infonnation that REV. L/\RRY "MOOX" MULLIX'S, president of our freslunan class, w-as ordained to tlie Priesthood a few days before Clirist­mas. He will be assigned to the Diocc5c of Daven­port, la., wlicn he returns from the X^orth Ameri­can College in Rome, where he is taking tlieoIog>-. His first Mass was offered in the cliapcl of the Sis­ters of Holy Cross in Rome. His second Mass was a nuptial ^^ass, at which his sister ^«'as married. Father MulUns' parents and other members of his family attended the ceremonies in Rome. 
GEORGE COULO.V, CS.C, and BER.\IE CLARK, CS.C, were both ordained in Le Mans, France, last June. BOB AUSTGEX, CS.C, and JIM SLMOXSOX, CS.C, were ordained in Rome this past December. All four of those mentioned above who were recently ordained are finishing out their studies In the Holy Cross thcologatc in Rome. They will probably be back in the states by the beginning of the next school year. 
In April, two members of the class of '55 will be ordained Holv Cross Fathers in Santiago, Chile. Tlie\- are .MALCOL.M JOHXSOX, CS.C, and TO.M E.VGL1SH, CS.C. They will probably be back in this country sometime next winter for their first Solemn Masses. 
In June, seven other members of the class of '55 will be ordained to the priesthood in ordina­tion ceremonies at Sacred Heart Church on the 
X. D. Campus. Thev are JI.M McGRATH. CS.C , ROLL.V.XD STAIR, CS.C , JACK KEEFE, CS.C , BILL .MELODY, CS.C, JIM BL.\N*TZ, CS.C, JOHX FORD, CS.C, and JOH.N' McMAXMOX, CS.C , who supplied all of this news. 
JOE O'DOXXELL, CS.C, and NIC AYO, CS.C , hope to be ordained in the Holy Cross or­der next year. Xic will be ordained in Rome in Xovcmbcr or December of 1959, and Joe at X'otre Dame in June of 1960. 
.MIKE DUCEY, S.J., will finish his course in philosophy at West Baden College this year, and hopes to take his theology and be ordained in In­dia, in the Jesuit Patna missions. 
JOE O'BRIEX* called while passing through Kan­sas City on his way to Salt Lake City. Hc*s work­ing for Link .Aviation. 
BOB ARRIX is also to be included among the list of Kansas City visitors. Bob spent several 
 Rev. Charles M. Statham. 
weeks here in his capacity as .-Vssistant ProductSW Manager for Johnson & Johnson — baby oil division. Bob and his wife recently added a daughter's name to the mailbox. We planned to have dinner to­gether, but he was called unexpectedly to Chicago on business. Til give you a rain check. Bob. While I'm at it, let me extend an open invitation to any grads passing through to give me a call at mv home. 
What ever happened to: JOE SHILTS, JACK PIXTER, BOB KR.\XZKE, BOB HAXRAH.VX, TO.M FEELEY, R.\LPH GUGLIELMI, JOE PSAR­TO, JOHX XICHOLSOX, BILL L\'XCH, CVS KROPKOWSKI, FRED KRx\CKL.\UER, AL GER­MAIN, JOH.V CLEMEXCY, and S.\.\LMY CRINGE. 
From down in Memphis, Tenn., news fillerc«*:T through the Union lines from SONXY COWLES."^ After spending two years in the Army, Sonny is now working as a salesman and promotion man­ager in the wholesale electronic parts business. En­closed in his letter was a card announcing the ar­ri\al of a daughter. Colleen Kelly, who was bom on January' 7 and weighed in at 7 lbs., 2 ozs. Sonny tells me that CHARLIE NxVJJAR is going to be the godfather. 
I received an announcement stating that BILL STOUTENBURGH has become a member of the New- York Stock Exchange and will be located at the office of Hayden, Stone, and Co. Anyone find­ing loose cliange under the cushions of the divan might call Bill at Digby 4-6700. 
LEE CRErVN and his wife, Mary-, sent a cara-V announcing the arrival of Kevin Patrick who was born on March 10. Congratulations to you both 
ROME—Notre Danie-St. Mary's students spending their junior year abroad gather with friends for an Easter celebration in the Romaii-. rendcz\-ous of the Notre Danic Club of the Eternal City: (from left in this composite picture) Dick Reamer, '55; Brother Robert FonW taine, C^.C, '54; Nancy Madigan, Greg St. Romain; Hank Kuzminski, coach at N. D. International School; Mary Ann Frejean, Susan Fitzpatrick, Dave Hennes, Gaynell Bordes; Joe McCue, '58, Brother Hugh Haggertj-, CS.C, '54; Rev. William Hogan, CS.C, '52; 
Peggj- Hock; John Burke of Holy Cross (his father is N.D. '33); Mary Jo O'Callaghan, and Peter J. Quinn, Jr. 
48 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 
and I'm sure that he'll make good GIcc Club material. 
,^^'ot to be outdone, FRj\NK BURKE and his u-ife, sRn, just added a third to the clan on the 22nd of March, Kathrv'u Ailccn. Again, congratulations are in order. Frank is working for the Lybrand Co. and he'and Ann arc living in Saddle River, N.J. 
JIA( CURTIX Sent a welcome contribution and mentions that AMEEL RxVSHID is finishing med school tilts vear at Stritch School of Medicine in Chicago. He also iclls me that SILVIO PICCIXI was critically injured by falling debris during a Florida windstorm. Here's hoping that you'll be up and around soon, Silvio. 
The southern influence makcf itself felt again, and welcome it was, in the form of a letter from DICK CONNELLY. He is liWng with his wife and daugh-Irr in Memphis where he is a reporter on the Com­
^^rda l AppcaL Dick previously scr\'cd in the Air Force and combines a little military and cix'ilian news to help fill out the column. The following items are from his letter. JOHN LOCHTEFELD is living in Hawaii with his wife and two sons. He received his MA degree in Fine Arts at the Uni­versity of Hawaii and when last heard from, he was teaching art there. 
BRIAN GAFFNEY has finished at Fordham School of Law and is awaiting a word of greeting from Uncle. 
PETE WALSH completed his Army chores on a lonely Pacific isle and plans to attend law school in the near future. Rumor has it that he was re­cently married. Write and fill mc in, Pete. 
^OH N WILKINS, his wife, and his son and aaughter are living at Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio. He works in the wind tunnel di\ision there. 
TED BIN*TZ also served a little spare time in the Air Force and is now working for a Detroit department store. At last word, he's now the father of two. 
JERRY HUGHES is still showing students the ins and outs of jet aircraft at Webb .-Mr Force Base, Texas. Next time you fly over Kansas City, Jerry, drop a line to say you're feeling fine. 
TOM CONLON is a roving auditor for General Electric and is still living in New Cumberland, \V. Va. 
BOB McGR/\TH is working as an electrical en­

• "nccr for an aircraft company on the West Coast. 
;- the way. Bob, Dick Connelly would like to hear from you and alt of the above at 1461 Wal­ton Rd., ^fcmphis, Tcnn. 
From the Alumni Office: Electrical engineer CHARLES D. RE/\GAN is now a project engineer with Indiana Bell Tele­phone, having w*orkcd up from student engineer after a military leave In 1957. Charlie, wife Mar­jorie and son Terrence live at 4903 Kenyon in Indianapolis. PHIL BURKE got his M.D. at the Syracuse Upstate Medical Center of the State U. of New York, will intern at Colorado General Hospi­tal in Denver. Speaking of medicos, DON SANT­SCHI, finishing up at Stritcli Medical (Loyola) in ^^licago, placed first in competitive exams for in­ternships at Cook County Hospital among 261 coast-to-coast applicants. He scored a fantastic 99.59%. Two other N. D. men, ARNOLD CURNYN and TOM MURPHY, were in the 96% bracket and the top 25. Oak Parker JI.\I SMITH is a professional scr\'icc representative for CIBA in Chicago, having ser\xd two years as an army lieutenant and worked for a couple of other Chicago firms. BILL CLEM­ENT'S and bride (the former Sheila Hahn of Lakc-
RHODE ISLAND—Man-of-the-Ycar award is presented to James E. Murphy (standing, left), Warren, R. I., attorney, by Paul Hoeffler, past president of the Rhode Island NJ>. Club. Seated from left arc the guest speakers, Adam Walsh, N.D. football immortal, now-coaching at Bo^vdoin College, Me., and Rev. Chester A. Solcta, vice president for academic affairs at the University. 
T^VIN CITIES—^AIPs apparently well with the Foundation Committees as leaders confer on alumni support at a luncheon last winter. Left to right arc John Connelly of St. Paul, Minnesota Foundation governor; Robert M. Rogers, St. Paul Chairman; Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C., associate director, and Patrick A. Dougherty, Minneapolis chairman. 
WivcS of the Notre Dame Class of '38 in the South Bend area held a luncheon in the spring in honor of Mrs. Joseph L. Kuharich, \vhose husband has returned to the University as head football coach. Classmate Kuharich was honored by *38crs at an earlier testimonial described in the 1938 Class column. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 1959 49 
V.>,K1. O.. daucJiicr «f CEOKCE HAHN, '2.'). and a SI. Mary*s-of-ilic-\\'i>otls craiii recently coniplclcd a si\-inoiilh liom-ynmdn in London. J'aris. Rome. Madrid, etc.. >fiiied (!oivn al'Mi* Main. Loiiansport. Ind.. u}uTi' Hill Ut'ih for a Loizansport **eekly neu>pa[>er. I lie Phant> Tinie>. 
Well. I cnes-. iJiat h\ about linie to put llic eoik in llie news juc for anoilier few nmntlis. .\i:ain. a reniindei ihai the reunion is clo.-ier than von iliink and ue all ^^lould he niakinc plans lo attend. I'm troini: to Mail >avini: my money now and hy ne\I June I >lionld havi- enounh to make a call to the loan company. Thaiik> lo ilio^e uho sent the neus this linie hecan^e itV jireatly appre­ciated. Without yi'ur letter- I'd he out of a jol). See voii next i-^ue. 
1 QC/1  John P. Dcasv  
'  '^  "  5697 N. Lincoln Ave.  
Chicajjo 45, Illinois  

rroni the .-Mumni Omce: J.\Mr-S W. PRICE left CohunbtK. Ohio, uhere lie vva*. S.-cietary of the .V. D. Clnb. and i.- nitw a bearimr thetapi-^t in the .Newark, N.J.. public f.chool>. Ct.mzralnlaiiouv to P.\T McC.\RT.\.V. now a law clerk for Ju.-«tice Whiliaker of ih<- Siiiiieme Court of the United Slate*. .\n enconrattim: note on intei-alumni afrair>. UII.I. M.-\NC.\ iias been elected treasurer nf the Catholic Alnniui Club of San Fiaiici-co. IJill i^ alMi a Northern Callfotnia N. D. Club member. JOHN COMITO, uith an M.D. fnmi CiiicnyoV Siriich School of Medicine, i- joininii the intern viaff of S..uth IJ.nd\ St. Joseph Hospital. 'Ilie followinir was rrrei\ed bv ART HAI.EV from THOM.XS E. HOrKl.NS. the Sport* Editor of the Honolulu Star-IJuIletin, Hitnolnhi. Hawaii, a N<itrc Dame alumnus; "JOHN lANNON's Hawaii Marine basketball team won the .-\imed Forces Leaune chaulpion^hil^ and fiiiis}ii'd first in the annual Tcrritnilal chani­jiiofi-Iiip tournament. Faunon and lULL WEI.M.AN uere tu(> of the bit: siars of the cbib. .Apparently the added coachiui: chores did not afTecl Fannon'.s playinc ability. *"His It-am \wnt bark to the .Mi-Marine toiirna­nieni at Qnantico. Va.. finishini; second t«» the host team in the hnals. Fann<in ^a-, one tti two Hawaii players .'•elected for the .\lI-M.Tiine tournament which compelt-d in tiic .Ml-Service and National A..-\.U. tournaments. "Jolin leaves ilie srr\ice in the suninier and plans to enter Wharton School of Business. University of IVniisylvania, in the fall." 
1 957 Charles P. Williamson P. O. Bo.-c605 Mt. Vernon, Illinois 
Paul Kraus (Law Sccrctarj-) 1730 AVcst Bancroft St. Toledo 6, Ohio 
From the Alumni Oflice: After siv nionilis courtesv of Uncle Sam's .\rniv. Wn.LIAM K. McGOW.VN, JR., is back in Indi­anapolis. Kill is in business with his father's firm, the ueneral insurance partnership of McGowaii & Brosnan (plui;: -Ktj Kahn llldi:.. pli. Melrose 7-4658). THOMAS R. HER.MAN, an .\I.E.. lias been ap­pointed assi!,i3nt engineer in the nuclear pnmp sec-lion of Milwaukee's .Mlis-Chahners. Tom recently completed the -VC tralnint^ course for graduate cn­clneets. ^ WILLIA.M F. ItURG is with the U.S. Army sta­tioned in Hanau, flermany. with the U/Jth Chem­ical Detachment. IJIll is a second lieutenant in llie Chemical Cori>», The scholar's corner: al I'enn State Univcrsilv. physical educators JAMES D. .McDER.MGlT and ROBERT J. SCVNNELL won Master of Education and Master of Science degrees respectively; fioni Ohio State, electrical engineer THOM.AS E. CHARLTON and chemical engineer RICHARD J. SHAFER cadi received M.S. degrees. 
1 958 ^^*"r L- Roule, Jr. 1709 Indiana Ave. LaPorte, Indiana 
I think that a good way to begin this fourth edi­tion of "Ronle's Remnants of Reminiscence" would 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, June, 2959 
be to wi^h one and all a happy aiiniversar\'. In ca.se you haven't thought about it. it lias now been a full year .since we graduated and left the '"land (•f learning." There are some of Us. such as your secieiar>'. ^^h<^ haven't gone very far in a year'* lime: but then again there are many who have beeii ningini; far and wide across the map. There are undoubtedly some interesting lalo to be told about the happenings of the past year: and I. for «>ne. vwiuld like to hear them. ('Fld.s is obviously becom­int: a uot-loo->ui>tle reipiesi for new.s). As the man savs. "Nou is tile linie for all good men to come to the aid of the. . . column:" S»». ca.st a-ide all lelicence. ^iI down, and write that letter »»r pr»st­caid that yon have been inli-nding to send. 
Tlie coiiespondenre of the past two or tliree inonihs ha- been somewhat limited but interesiiirj. BOB FI\'O.VKA wrote from Denver where he is sindyinc medicine at the University of Coloratlo .Medical C^enier. It appears that B<»1> is doing e\­ceptic)nally well with the studies, which is not sur­prising. He iepc»rts also thai he will be niariied on June 13. to Margaret .Mary Hessbmg. .All in all. ihimis aie going well for Mr. Fiv<inka. DICK NE.MECHEK is sharing an aparlinenl with Bob in 
S.-\LIX.\—Part of the nine-nieinher ihron*^ 
Denver, and is woiking with the .Martin Conijiaiiy, 
from Central Kansa.s al ihc Universal Xotre Dame Connnitnion lSreakfa.sl of the bii;i;est little .Mumni Club in the U. S. 

PITTSBURGH—Headliners at Piltsburijh's Universal Noire Dame Xi<;ht included (1. to r.) Club Pre.sidcnt Charles Christen; Most Rev. John J. \\'rij;ht, D.D.. Bi.shop of Piit.sbur[;h; Rev. Thomas Kirby, Club chaplain; James Bcynier. chairman of the eveni. and Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell. toastmaster. 
ST. LOUIS—Father Frank Gartland, C.S.C, editor of the CATHOLIC BOV, addressed 200 alumni and friends attendin:; Universal Notre Dame Xii;ht ceremonies of the N.D. Ch"J of St. Louis. Mo. From left arc A. J. Ravarino, '35; Joseph Holland, toastmaster; Father Gartland, Thomas J. McGuire, retiring president; Rev. Bernard C. Stolte, chaplain, and J. Donald Ratchford. '50, president-elect. 
Appaifiuly Dirk i> tryiiii: I<> li.-Ip Mariiii laimcli 
ihosi; Titan iiiis'.iK*>, 

r^ Whilr on tliL- Mifjjrct of tiiivt-IiTs In llu- opmini: j»arai;r3pii, prrliap^ I sliouid liavc iiiciitioni-<i DON McNEIIJ,, uhft recently returned frnui a seuiester of siutly in Vienna. Arcordinii to an iu-ni in one of llie Cliirai;o papeis. Don made quili-a hit uiili ilif F,un)pran-' — playini: on an Austrian lia>kelhall team in international rompetilion. Don and Iiis liMitlier Tom reliirnrd to the U. S. by a rounda­hoiit roiiti- tliionuli ilie Middle-East, Asia. Japan and point- ea-t. Troin all reports, il ua-a fa--­rinatini: trip. Don is now rnjoyim; his tntii of dnty I two veaiM ill tin- .-\iiny, 
HILL QULNLAN diopped hy recently on his uav to San I'lanrlsro for suhseipn-nt transfer to C)kina­ua. Bill, a lieutenant in the Marine Corp-, uill ')e in Okinawa for fifteen months. Unfortunately. 

9v^a s :iuay uhen 11:11 diopped In s.. I niissrd him, i>ut he h-!t a note for nie vvith the above iiifortn.i­tion. Bill also reniaiked that he accepts our thanks for keepiu'i Ann-i ica siron-4. 
.Vcordini: to a letter fiom JL\I MORKLS* moihei. Jim siiined a contract with the .\eu Yoik Yankee oicanl/alion l:\r-t simmier. lie plavfd uiih Aiihurn. X, Y.. last year and ulll be uIlli Faryo, .V. Dak., till- Nunimei. Jim niariied Susan Kck last Octoiier 
11. in SpM^^iield, 111. AL KCK, uho is uorklni; with the accoiintint; iirm of Keiber. F.ck. and Kraeckel of Spitni'field and St. Louis, is the proud father of a daiiuhlei, Catherine .Viiiie. born last September. 

I was happy to hear front HILL STUIUIIS on the ^^'' of his bcini; shipped o\eisr;is. |{i|| u rites that ^^e has a chance f<ii one of the follouiii'^ a.ssii;n­
menls: (lermaiiy. I'lance. Hawaii. Japan, .-Masks, oi Italy. Fioni tin- I2lh of Januaiy until .\pril 2~. Bill \sas >ialioru-d at Fort Lee, Viryinla. in tin-Qnaitermaster School. 
My old roommate. JL\I POLEY. has v\iiii»-ii twice since the wrltlnt; of my last colmnii and has of­fered .1 bit of iiew.s concernim; Iiinisflf and a few of our other chLssinates. Jlni inteiriipted his gradu­ate woik at the Univer.siiy of California for a s-ix^ moiuh try at .Army life at F'tirt Ord, Calif. He had entered Califoinia (Graduate School alnu>st immedi­ately after onr ijraduatlon last June and completed IW() sessions before takliiu up with Uncle Sarii. Jim will resume his studies toward an M.B..\, ne\t 

• A few b.iel items ft.rwaided by Mr. I'olev, in­clude the news that JOILN SENG is novv in llie Army (1 feel a little cullty for m>I knowini: nioie about John, since I have owrd him a letter for several months - my apologies. Johni. JERRY 
VIRGINIA — Father Thomas Brcnnan, C.S.C., sucst speaker from the campus at Universal Notre Dame Night in Richmond, ^'a., congratulates Charles A. LaFratta. out­going president of the Notre Dame Club of Virginia, who was selected as Notre Dame Man of the Year. 
WASHINGTON. D. C.~John A. McGrath (right), retiring president of the N.D. Club of Washington, meets Notre Dame's G-E College Bowi team at International Airport before their recent quiz victory over Georgetown. McGrath escorted the team to breakfast, Mass at Holy Cross College, etc. At left is Rev. John E. Walsh. C.S.C.. coach of the quiz team. 
REF^DY is vwnkiiit; in sonie underwiitini,' fieltl in 

SIoiiv Falls. D.WE \\'OLL ha-, become enirai-ed to 
.Miss Xoel Tripp of \Va<him;ton. D. C . and ROS 

BOrrC-M was married December liT. to Miss Mary 
Iliisted in Wall. S»nith Dakota, 
PALL LYNCH wiites from !Jaini>ridi:e Air Base, 

(leori^Ia. that he ha> completed the first >ix niontlis 
of a twelve month cour-e in jet training:. AL RIM­
KUS is in the same program at Marianna. Fla. 
DON RONEY reports that he U havinji a really 
lomzh time at Foit Sill. Don i> forced to put up 

with such tiiirnis a* private rooms, orderlies to 
clean lip aftei him and shine his shoes rvery niorn-
Iim, excellent food and other little trials while he 
is studvini; at olhcer-;* sdiool. 0;IUT> at the Fort 
Sill school are: JOILN BERNARD. CLAUDE 
IIE.\TH. FRANK KUCHTA (recenllv rnanledK 
JOILV LARKIN, and BILL .MUUl'HY. 
.More matrimonial news: GENE TRIANO was married on the IHtli tif April ti> Claudette TraiKt, in Elizabeth, N.J. JOHN SULLIV,\N is plannlnt; a vxeddlni: in .Aumist with .Mary .Vnne Piper of Chi­caiKt. Sully, who I* in the law combinatitui pro­«rarn here at N. D.. will be cettin-^ his under-UMudnate decree this June as will GORDO.X HO. JOHN DENARDO. HUGH .McGUIRE. FR.\XK BRIODY, BOB HOUSE. GEXE .SALE.M. TOM SULLIV.AX, ami LESTER .MURPHY. 
JOHN' DUNN reports .^l^<. that FRED C.\XN.\TA was married to Fli/a!ieili .Ann roi;o/fIski on Mav «'. in New Hyde Park. N.Y. 
That sfeiiis to be the extent of the new> for tills lime. Let us hnjn' ilial ihi. will prove to be one of the smallest editions of oui column ever to be put into Jirint. Have an elijoyablr summer and keep us posiril. 
From the Alumni Ollice: 

Law Dean JOSEPH O'.MEARA has i..ii.:iatnlated the Class fi.r havlni; thi- greatest number of urads In the Law School since I^JO. nanu-lv 27 ^ 19 of whom aie honor graduates: JOHX HIRSCHFELD. maxima cum laude: FO.M CLUSSER.VTH. PAUL COFFEY. DANE LINK. ROCCO PUNTURERI and P.\UL SCHIERL. all niauna cum laude: and cum laudes GERALD BRANN, JOILX DUNN. BILL GERARDO. JIM GOETflAUS. JOE GUEN­THER, ED HARDIG. LARRY HOWARD, JOHN .MARTZELL. LARRY .MEDOW. ROD .MFHTE. JOHN .MOREL.\.XD, .MIKE OTOOLE and y,-Secretarv ART ROULE. 
BOB CAIOLA of Rid^efield. Conn., has been named assistant in chemistry at Washlm'ton Univer­sitv, St. Louis. .Mo. Bob put some time in at 
CC.N.Y. and Heldelben:. Germany. 
JOHX F. .MARCILAL (I^i Secretary) 339 Wtst Fourth -Street Greenville. Ohio 

Once ai-ain. It !> time to spread a little news about those whit have written. 
BURTOX GREEXBERG writes thai he had his first solo Circuit Court jury trial not long ago and that he was the winner therein. He and Phyl have purchased a home and they seem to be kecpini; the St. Louis area under control. 
W.ALT WOLF is still clerking in a local Cam­den ollice. He will take the Bar June II and 12 and on the 30th will join Uncle Sam. He indi­cated that he had heard from the GENE GRIF­FINS, and that they were doing well, though Gene would like to try a small office practice. 
General WILLIA.M ENGEL is at Ft. Bliss. Texas, as this colnnm Is written, and indicates that h^ is immensely enjoying his paid vacation with the irovernrnent. He saw his first bull fight not long ago and decided it wasn't nearly as glamorous as the inovio make It. He stated in his letter that JERRY CURRAN is at Fort Knox and that basic almost bioughi him back to life. 
.After a long period of silence from Kansas. TOM OGLEVIE finally wrote to tell me that he has been (pilte busy. He is representing several insurance rr)nipanies. and among his non-business activities he is co-chairman for the March of Dimes and the Heart Fund Drive. He represents the Bishop in Northwest Kansas and i> a local police judge and justice of the peace. He says that there is an opening for- any()ne who would like to partake of the paradise that Western Kansas offer?.. 
JOH.V .MURRAY was recently in Indianapolis, where he wa,s trying a case for Helvering. He seems to be enjoying his work, hut indicated that I lie govririnu-nl has a hard time winning. He has been travt-lini: extensively and Indicated that bis social life had taken a change for the better. 
From New York. JACK ECONOMOU writes that he is vvith the fir.^! of Langner. Parry. Card and Langner. 10 Columbus Circle. New York 19. -V.Y. They specialize in international trademarks and copyright practice. Jack said that he is pre­paring to re-take the Bar exam and is prescntly working on hi> revIe^^. If any nicnibers of the class pass thiomth his area. Jack extends an invitation to them to call him, 
FROGGY DREXLER recently celebrated a quar­ter of a century erf existence on this earth . He difln't send mucli other Information, but from Mur­ray I did find out that he is now wearing Brooks Brothers Miit>, complete with vest and homburg, as only a frog could. ^Vhen I told him of my six month.s' deal with the .Air Force, he indicated that he might join up. hoping t(t uet in the missile de­velopment section. 
TO.M DARRAGH writes that he is still having triruble finding a job because of his Iiealih. He did not have much to s^y about himself, but indicated that Cur ran will soon be the sole legally trained person on the base and that he has been handling some cases. He also informed me that FR.-\NK V,ARG,AS continues to work in a law office while preparing for another shot at the Bar. 
Yours truly does not have much to add to the letters that I have recently sent out except to say that the tvvo cases that I was to try tins month have both been settled. Of course. I am looking forward to my six months with the government, and perhaps I will have more to say after I have begun my rest. One exhortation in closing — those of you who have not written, please write. 
Xotre Dame Alumnus. June. 1959 51 

The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
Dear Fellow Alimini: One of the considerations of your Alumni Board has been the desirability of impressing on all Notre Dame Alumni the responsibilit)' they bear as Catholic laymen. The Board has adopted several recommendations in tlie past ha\Tng to do with informing Alumni of the importance to Notre Dame of the part they play in Catholic and civic lay activities. You may recall many of the articles in the "Alumnus" spotlighting individual Alumni or advising us of tlie Catholic position in state and national affairs. Certainly all Catholic lajmen have such a responsibilit)'. Is it not so, however, that a Catholic lawman with benefit of a Notre Dame education has a greater than ordinary' obligation in this respect? Fortunately, most Notre Dame Alumni recognize an obligation to themselves, their church, their country', and to Notre Dame, to use their education for reasons other than their material gain. Your Alumni Board encourages all Notre Dame men to consider the good they qan accomplish by active participation in the variety of lay activities which ever)' day seek the assistance of educated Catholic men. The attention of the Board has also been directed towards assisting the University wherever possible in matters of student admissions. Many of our Notre Dame Clubs throughout the countr)' are making a signifi­cant contribution to Notre Dame by working with the University Admissions Office in inteiviewing prospec­tive students and advising candidates on the admission policy, ^^'e can all, acting as individuals or as club committee men, offer needed help to Notre Dame in this respect. In order to provide this help, we must, of course, be aware of the qualifications which Notre Dame seeks in a candidate for admission. Ever)'one expects the best from Notre Dame in all of its undertakings. Therefore, Notre Dame tries to provide the best in its graduates. This does not mean, however, that all candidates to be admitted must be straight A in high school. It means, rather, that to be admitted, a student must have some proven scholastic ability, and must have shown some recognizable potential. Notre Dame seeks the well-balanced student, not the young man who is scholar only, or athlete only, or whose record shows an abundance of social activities alone. Being only a student is not enough, just as being only an athlete is not enough. The best applicant is one who has exhibited an interest in study, in play, in fun and in prayer—with an understanding of the relation of one to die odier. Once we know what Notre Dame wants in its applicants, we Alumni can be of real ser\'ice to the Uni­versit)' by advising interested candidates along these lines. And we can be of further ser\'ice by seeking out the better high school students who we honestly believe are the kind of young men Notre Dame wants. One of the recent mailings from the Notre Dame Foundation Office brought with it a small pamphlet en­titled, "Notre Dame Makes the Honor Roll." If you read it, you will recall that Notre Dame ranks in die top ten of all private schools in Alumni support. As Alumni we can all be proud of this position. The record shows that in 1957-1958, 49.2% of all the Notre Dame Alumni actually contributed to Notre Dame's great need for assistance. It also means that at least one half of our Alumni did not consider the need. This is a surprising statistic, when we look at it in reverse. That percentage should be much closer to one hundred. Your Alumni Board urges you to do all you can to be part of Notre Dame in this respect, as in all others. In his message in tiie 1959 spring issue of the magazine, "Notre Dame", Father Hesburgh spoke of the aroused interest in America today in the significance of education to our national welfare. He referred to the position of Catholic education and Notre Dame's place therein. He commented that "more and more, we are being asked what specific contribution our Alumni are making to solve the great problems that face us today". As Alumni we should accept the ob\'ious challenge to help Father Hesburgh, and Notre Dame, answer that question. Some of the ways we can do this are by considering the thoughts mentioned above. All of you are encouraged to accept your obligation as Catholic laymen, to assist Notre Dame in its search for the better, well-balanced student, and to recognize the need Notre Dame has for whatever financial assistance you can give her. Very best personal regards to all of you from all the members of the Notre Dame Alumni Board. 
Very truly yours. 

'/// a//jiA/ 
President 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS 










