The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
i;;!..^?i'Sff*^,::-Kjv? 
7':-: ',^i::MMMm':>ii^-^^i=^M&^^}^^^^^M^^^ 

Vol. 29. No. 2. March-April. 1951 
m 
*-^tfi 
-'.-« 

so 
*«sT-ifii ^ 
wi 
v: 

ij 
r 1 <-:/
r ^ 
^ Jiifi 
-r ri] ^^^ 
t ^'^ 
^5^ 

St-," »i? 

•1 ^-i 

^ .->" 


I* t*1^^ '^ 
•^ *^V%:^4S 
^•=f 



cr^^­
The Andre House — and a Memorial Chapel to Father John Ryan (page 6). '^ 
-f^ J! 

n^-^ 
fc V -'-II ^f 1 MI/I 
, ^^~ 
Xr-I 
! ^/ 
1 eL33«i^jji.?i»<T .,^. jjiiik, 
y
P T I-if ^ 
<• Js-Air 
tr 
». V 


Zhc- Notre Dame Alumnus 
Vol. 29 No. 2 March-April. 1951 
James E. Annstrong. '25, Editor lolm P. Bums. '34, Managing Editor lohn N. Cackle;. Jr., '37. Associate Editor 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class matter Oct 1, 1939, at the Postoffice, Notre Dome, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 
1912. 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OFFICERS 
LEO B. WARD, '20.. Monorary President 
R. CoNROy ScoGCiNS, '24 President WiLLUM J. SHERRY, '21 First Vice-President WILLIAM B. JONES, '28 Second Vice-President EDWARD J. BECKMAN, '16 Third Vice-President 
DIRECTORS TO 1952 
WiLLL\M J. SHERRY, '21 1001 First Natl. Bldg., Tulsa 3, Okla. WILLIAM B. JONES, '28....7/02 Meadow Lane, Chevy Chase 15, Md. 
R. Co.s'ROY ScoGGiNs, '24 .480 Humble Bldg., Houston, Tex. EDWARD J, BECKMAN, '16 .2 East Mill Dr., Great Neck, N. Y. 
DIRECTORS TO 1953 
JOHN Q . .\DAMS, '26 128 Highland Ave., Montclair, N. J. HARVEY G. FOSTER, '39 327 Federal Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind. RICHARD J. NASH, '23 6235 Kenmore, Chicago 23, III. DR. MATTHEW WEIS, '22 7379 Northmoor, St. Louis 5, Mo. 
DIRECTORS TO 1954 
JOSEPH S. MORRISSEY, '28 22Main St., Cincinnati, Ohio JOHN H . NEESON, JR., '35 37 Highland Ave., Cnywyd, Pa. WILLIAM C. SCHMITT, '10 2765 N.H'.Nicolai St., Portland, Ore. LUTHER M . SWYGERT, '27 6330 Hahman Ave., Hammond, Ind. JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 Director and Secretary 
MEMO—To Club and Class Secretaries 
Class notes, club items, pictures, reunion propa­ganda, etc., should reach the Alumni Office not later than April 25 for inclusion in the May-June "Alumnus." 
Club secretaries especially ore asked to help by sending pictures of Universal Notre Dome Night ob­servations, AAan-of-the-Year Av/ard winners or other general items of Club interest. 
With the tight printing schedule imposed on the Ave Maria Press by the annual demands for Com­mencement and Summer School printed matter the "Alumnus" will be required to fit its publication into several predetermined days. 
End of MEMO. 
1951 



Class Reunions 
June S, 9, 10 
Preliminary reports from Class Reunion Committees in­dicate that the international uncertainity will not ap­preciably crimp the June reunions in attendance. 
The 1950 sessions topped all previous gatherings in numbers and enthusiasm, and even the Alumni Golf Tour­nament hit a new high in players. 
One added incentive for the reunion is the elections which got started in several of the 1950 reunion classes. Nominating committees were able to caucus and discuss, even with the unbusinesslike atmosphere of a 5-year gathering. 
The 1951 reunions will, at this writing take a new turn, at least in location. The "new campus"—Farley, Cavanaugh, Breen-Phillips and Zahm Halls—^will be made available by the University, since the traditional reunion halls rieed extensive maintenance work. Dillon, Alumni, Morrissey and Lyons will be closed the day after Com­mencement and turned over to Father Furstoss' painters, plasterers and repair crews. 
But that is the single break with tradition. 
Two excellent opportunities in spectator sports are offered this year, to the returning alumni. For those too languid to play golf or too introspective to play softball there is offered the once-in-a-lifetime chance to become a sidewalk superintendent in the construction of not one, but two new University buildings. 
South of the Gymnasium work will be progressing on the new Science Building, and at the entrance to the campus the Morris Inn will be going up. Neither project is classified as secret, or even confidential, and camera records may be made. 
Alumni who intend to return for this year's reunions ore asked to write their class secretaries, or to write Jim Armstrong at the Alumni Office. Such indication of in­tention will help planning and the reunion secretaries, provide a prod for others who might not be coming 
back. 
Ic J 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
X i  
• ^ %  
^VJ  





e Alumnu 
April 2 Observance Across Nation Marks Twenty-Eighth Universal Notre Dame Night 
Observance of the 28th Annual Uni­vei-sal Notre Dame Night Monday, April 2, 1951 brings a number of new develop­ments. 
First, is the elasticity that circum­stances have introduced into the Night. Most Clubs will meet April 2, as pro­jected. But many, to take advantage of speakers or of local conditions have moved the date ahead or back so that the night will be echoing from April 1 for a week to ten days thereafter. 
Mutual Broadcasting System will pre­sent a network program through WGN Chicago emanating from the Campus on April 5 and Dumont Television will broadcast a network program from its Chicago studios on April 9 (as this is written.) Speakers, films and all types of entertainment are bringing this 1951 Night to more Notre Dame men and their families than on any other occasion since 1924, when the tradition was be­gun. 
And rightly so. The need for telling the Notre Dame story was never more urgent than in this year, when a crisis faces the University because of unpre­cedented expansion of physical utilities. With two new buildings going up (The Science Building and the E. M. Morris Inn) and two more projected (The Fred. 
J. and Sally Fisher Memorial Hall and the Liberal Arts Building—a benefac­tion of Mr. I. A. O'Shaughnessy) a 
Foundation Report 
The Foundation Office wishes to assure alumnj that there will be no publication of names and the amounts contributed, by individuals. 
On the two occasions of serious transitions in 1941 from the old $5 dues to the Annual Alumni Fund, and from the Alumni Fund alone to the present Annual Alumni Fund as an integral part of the broader Foundation program, in 1947, the publication of names and amounts was a most effective short-cut to em­phasizing the &nancial picture for our alumni and our non-alumni friends. 
' The time has passed, Alumni Board and Foundation executives agree, for such publication to be effective. In fact, we are told that some of the vitally important smaller gifts are being held back because of this assumption (not actually in effect since 1948). If this is so, there should no longer be this inhibition. 
J. E. Armstrong. 
steam plant addition and expansion of other facilities is a HUST. 
The Notie Dame Foundation is direct­ing its 1951 drive to emphasize the con­tribution from the "small' giver." Un­glamorons needs of the University, its water and heating plants, its utilitarian needs are unlikely to attract the popular interest of a new library or scientific laboratory. 
But they must be met, and met this year. 
With the impetus given the Notre Dame story on last Fall's television shows, the radio and television broad­casts this year will help keep alive the story of the University's needs. 
Besides these media, individual clubs have been sent material which can be used to publicize local observations. Mr. Raymond Donovan, Director of Public Information prepared background ma­terial for radio stations and newspapers. and each club received a copy. 
At this writing at least twenty repre^ sentatives from the University will ap­pear before local clubs. Their schedule is listed below. 
The listings are not complete, or de­finite, as some last minute revisions or additions may have to be made. 


University Representatives and Their Scheduled UND Night Appeoronces 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C. S. C.—Indianapolis and Chicago Trainer- Hugh Bums—Indianapolis and Dizoa, OL (A|ml 5) (April 7) 
Rev. Charles Shcedy, C. S. C.—Schnectody 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S. C—New Jersey and Phila­Prof. Arthur Raynieis—Houston delphia (April 4) 
Frank Leahy—Philadelphia John Cackley—^Boston ' • . ' . Dean Clarence E. Manion—Philadelphia William Shells (NY Oub Pres.)—Baltimore Dean James McCarthy—Harrisburgh, Pittsburgh and Detroit Very Rev. Chnstopher OTook, C S. C—Baltimore 
Dean Lawrence Baldinger—St. Louis Assistant Coach Bemie Crimmiiw—Youi^stowii Athletic Director Edward W. Krause—St. Joseph Valley Dr. Daniel C O'Grady—Grand Rapids Rev. Louis Thornton, C. S. C.—^Memphis and New Orleans William Elsen (Speech Dep't)—MOwankec Rev. Cornelius Laskowski, C. S. C.—Rochester Ray Donovan (Public bfoimatiaii)—Fox Valley, Wiscoasia" 
March-April, 1951 
-laetoAe Medal-



Architecture Senior in Lloyd Warren Finals 
A University senior is one of twelve 

Notre Dame Honors Texas Executive finalists who will compete for the $5,000 Lloyd Warren Scholarship in Architec­ture for a prize of eighteen months of 
As Year's Outstanding Lay Catholic study and travel both in North America 
John Henry Phelan, Sr., a business 
executive and philanthropist from 
Beaumont, Texas, has been announced 
as the 1951 recipient of the Laetare 
Medal, awarded annually by Notre 
Dame to the year's outstanding Amer­
ican Catholic layman. He succeeds 
General J. Lawton Collins, Chief of 
Staff of the United States Army, as 
winner of the award. 
In announcing the University's choice, 
the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c, 
president of Notre Dame, added: 
"Mr. Phelan is an outstanding ex­
ample of a successful business execu­
tive who is humbly devoted to his 
Faith. Throughout his career, Mr. Phe­
lan has shared his material wealth 
with the Catholic Church, not only 
toward the construction of new 
churches throughout the nation, but 
toward the development and upkeep of 
struggling parishes in small communi­
ties. His philanthropies always are 
marked by a deep humility and seldom 
are made public In addition to his 
contributions to the Church, Mr. Phe­
lan and his family are daily Communi­
cants and exemplary members of the 
Catholic Faith." 
Born in Charlotte, N. C, on Decem­ber 11, 1877, Mr. Phelan was educated at St. Peter's Convent in Charlotte. He was married on June 15, 1905, to Han­nah Cunningham, of Braidwood, 111. The Phelans have three children, John H., Jr., Anthony McDade and Margaret Myers (Mrs. Randolph Compton Reed), and twenty-three grandchildren. 
The Laetare Medalist served as Gen­eral Manager of the Phelan Grocery Company in Beaumont from 1913 to 1926, and now is Chairman of the Board of the company. From 1916 to 1933, he was Secretary-Treasurer of the Yount-Lee Oil Company in Beaumont, and dur­ing the following year served as Vice-President and Treasurer of the organi­zation. 

Mr. Phelan currently is serving as Chairman of the Board of the Phelan Company in Beaumont. He also is Di­rector of the First'National Bank and of the Norvell-Wilder Supply Company in his heme town, and of the Standard Brass and Manufacturing Company in Port Arthur, Tex. 
Conservative estimates indicate that Mr. and Mrs. Phelan's charitable con­tributions to the Catholic Church have exceeded $1,000,000. A particular hobby of the Phelans has been furnishing al­tars, organs and statues for Churches throughout the United States. They have donated approximately 225 altars to these Churches. 
Afr. John Hemy Phelan, Sr. 


O'Brien Gets Appointment 
Professor Hugh P. O'Brien, Director of the Curriculum in Correctional Ad­ministration at the University has been appointed to the Committee on Personnel Training of the American Prisons Asso­ciation. 
Announcement of Professor O'Brien's appointment was made by Commissioner Richard McGee, Chairman of the train­ing committee, which has been estab­lished to draft suggested curricula for colleges and universities offering courses in correctional work. Professor O'Brien, who has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1947, formerly served as Director of Education at Clinton Prison in. New York state. He served for ten years as a member of the New York State Division of Parole, serving consecutively as Parole OfBcer, Senior Parole Officer, and Administrative As­sistant to the Chairman of the Parole Board. 
and abroad. 
Robert P. Heisler, of Fargo, North Dakota, has survived the two prelimi­nary eliminations which cut the field down from 92 to 12, and is now await­ing the final week-long problem which contestants made a complete set of plans for a furniture showroom. 
The winner will spend most of his time in Paris, where he must complete one project at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts. He will also make a survey of important architectural and engineering projects in North America. 
One of the two biggest student archi­tectural scholarships in the United States, the Lloyd Warren Scholarship was inaugurated in 1904 by the Society of Beaux-Arts Architects. 

Fr. Sauvage Dies 
Funeral services for the Rev. George 
J. Sauvage, C. s. C, former Procurator General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, were held March 12 in Sacred Heart Church at the University. 
Father Sauvage died March 8 in the Community Infirmary after an illness of several years. He was 77 years old. Burial was in the Community Cemetery. 
A native of St. Remy du Plren, France, Father Sauvage was ordained to the Catholic priesthood on April 1, 1899. He celebrated the fiftieth anni­versary of his ordination in Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame on April 1, 1949. 
Father Sauvage received a Doctor of Philosophy degree from Angelica Uni­versity in Rome in 1898, an S. T. D. in 1899 and a Licenciate in Letters from Poitiers University in 1901. After hi.'' ordination, he served as Professor of Theology at the University of Angers from 1900 to 1904, and taught theology at Holy Cross College in Washington, 
D. C. from 1903 to 1914. 
From 1914 to 1918, during World War 1, Father Sauvage served as a liai­son officer with the English and the French. In 1919, after the end of the war, he became Procurator General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, a posi­tion he held for thirty years until he was forced to retire because of failing health. 
Father Sauvage also served as a con-suitor in the Congregation of the Sac­raments and as a consultor in the Con­gregation of the Religious, both in Rome. 
Tht Notre Dame Alumnus 




Eulogy for Father Michael Moiiarty, 10 
By Rev. Charles W. McDonough Holy Name Rectory, Cleveland O. 
Those of us who knew Father Mo­riarty from the time of his ordina­tion and throughout his priestly life knew that he prized as his greatest treasure, the privilege of offering the Mass for his people, and of cleansing their souls and sanctifying them, and attending their sick and burying their dead, and blessing their families, cherish­ing their lilttle ones, helping the poor and harboring the needy. He began his priesthood with that spirit and he has never departed from it. It has been for him an assurance of meritorious work, it has removed from him any thought of self-seeking and has given him an incentive to search for the things of God. 
To sum up the orderly sequence of his life, to manifest even a few of the brilliant facets of his character is a task, that to be done capably would re­quire the pen of an observer far more able than I. As is usually the case, the one for whom you would wish to say the most is the one whom you find the hard­est to commend,' and the hardest to praise. Thank God his worth is so well known that we need no panegyric to 

'-extol him. 
His boyhood in Ashtabula was by his 

" own account a time of great joy and happiness. Not all his anecdotes about that particular time could have possibly have happened, but they give us an understanding of the edifying affection between himself, his brother, two sisters and an appreciation of his home in which he was reared. Notre Dame Uni­versity knew him as an excellent student and a capable athlete. I do not know what letter he won in sports, but I do know that he had a great big N. D. en­grraved on his heart, a symbol that was kept bright by his unfailing loyalty to the University and by his affection for the Fathers of the Holy Cross Order, and his fellow alumni. 
After his ordination in 1915, his novitiate as a priest was at the Cathe­dral for just a year when he was as­signed to assist Fr. Mooney, now Car­dinal Mconey of Detroit in the direction of Cathedral Latin School. Here his keen.miiid...was immediately recognized in the excellence of his teaching and his powers of administration. His brusque and thoroughly masculine man-

MoTch-April, 1951 
ner made him a universal favorite amongst the students. In turn their con­fidence gave him an opportrmity to ex­ercise over them a marvelous influence for good. 
REV. MICHAEL MORIARTY, '10 
Much of the early success of Cathe­dral Latin School may be attributed to his ability as a teacher and as a coun­selor. His first pastoral charge was the Church of the Immaculate Conception in Wooster to which post he was ap­pointed in 1922. In an atmosphere that was far from being friendly to Catho­lics he won a great host of friends and established himself as a community 
Rev. Michael Moriarty, who died Feb. 1-i in. Washington, D. C-, tvas loved and respected by everyone who came into contact ivith him. Being a secular priest, he received a fitting eulogy at his ftmeraJi However, since six Holy Cross Priests have died in the last few months Fathers Ryan, McKeon, Len­nartz, Bolger, Gallagan and Saiivage, the ALUMNUS editors feel that Father Mike's sermon can stand for all of them, and that they ivill be ineludedin the prayers for the repose of his soul. 
figure who was nniversaUy admired. When he was called to head the work of the Charities in the Diocese in 1933, it was a real sorrow for him to relinqaiah his school and his parish. 
With the spirit of sympathy and. un­derstanding that actuated his fedings for the poor, especially the neglected little ones, his work in the Charities office and his direction of the boys, in St. Anthony's Home was a religions devotion to duty that inflicted mndi work upon him but gave him a con­stant feeling of gratification. I have learned that the first signs of strain upon his heart were recognized by his doctor at that time. In 1940 he relin­quished the Charities ofSee and ac­cepted the pastorate of St. Mary's- in Mentor. Just seven years ago he came to St. Catherine's as the successor of Father Charles Mosdey. 
Here, daring these few short years, he has found a little bit of paradise. Here amongst his people and sur­rounded by his childroi he has experi­enced a joy that inspired him in every task. He has had almost a boyish ea­tUusiasm in adorning church and school. He never lost a chance to point out the beauty of the flowers and the grounds of the Church. Equally ambi­tious for the spiritual beauty of his congreg^ation he encouraged them con­stantly in the practice of devotion in their fidelity to the Mass and the Sacra­ments. 
Social minded, he organized the "So­cieties that have bound his people more closely than ever before^ No wonder that his last request shortly before his death, made to those who were attend­ing him, was that they should do every­
.thing they could to help him get home to St. Catherine's. S t Catherine's that represented rest and security. It was St. Valentine's Day and his children would have been disappointed if he were not among than to receive thdr tokens of love. 
What a wcmderful combination of qualities made up the personality of oar beloved friend. Father Hike. A man of the keoiest intdlect, with a tongue that was lightning fast in repartee, still with a heart that was contrdled always by the dictates of charity. Few men conld 

compare with him in humor and wit, yet no one ever found him guilty of using his tongue to inflict hurt or humiliation. 
For a man who icnew well the condi­tion of his health and the constant pos­sibility of danger, his days were re­markably filled with sunshine and the mirth of friendly contacts. Perhaps realizing the nearness of God he strove to live more fully in assurance of his grace. Perhaps that is the explanation of his love for the dead and his sym­pathy for the bereaved. It had be::n his custom to inscribe in his breviary the name of each priest of the diocese who died with the date of the death so that each year when he came to this date he might give remembrance to the de­parted one. 
To you his brother and his sisters, to you his relatives, to you his saddened parishioners, I would say that your grief and sorrow is a mark of holy re­membrance. Your tears for him will not fall any more readily from your eyes than the words of supplication will fall from your tongue. Sorrow is a' blessed thing when its comfort is in a plea fcr mercy for our departed. Keep him in your prayers that if aught is still to be paid to the Divine Justice, he may not be detained in prison languishing in de­ferred hope. 
Commend him to the Eternal High Priest who chose him for his august office. Commend him to St. Michael, his spii-itual patron and great protector of the dead. Let us take leave of him with the words which our holy Mother the Church places on our lips in the last absolution—"May the Angels lead thee into Paradise; may the martyrs receive thee at thy coming, and take thee to Jerusalem the Holy City. May the choirs of Angels receive thee and mayest thou, with the once poor Lazarus, have rest everlasting." 

New Officers of the ND Law Association 
Officers of the Notre Dame Law Association, (L to R) Executive Secretary Prof. Robert 
E. Sullivan, Notre Dame Law School; Roger J. Kiley, Chicago judge, and retiring presi­
dent; William B. Jones, Washington, D. C., attorney, new president—and Alumni Board Director; Henry P. Schrenker, Anderson, Ind., Prosecutor, vice president. 
Father John M. Ryan Chapel In New Andre House 
"That house near the Stadium" has finally got itself an official name. It is now the Andre House, a Brothers' Postulate. 
Since it was built in 1916 by Daniel 

J. McNamara, a retired insurance under­writer, it was known variously as "The McNamara House," "that place" or just "the house." Generations of students have gone through the University won­dering about it but never learning its true identity. 
Mr. McNamara, who died before its completion, started it in 1916 and his family sold it to the University in 1928. Three McNamara sons are alumni, and a daughter is a St. Mary's graduate. 
In October of 1950 the Holy Cross Congregation decided to use it for a Postulate for Brothers of the Priests' Society of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Its last tenants had been the family of Elwin "Doc" Handy who re­sigrned last year as University track coach. 
Now, under Eev. George Schidel, C.S.C., and Brother Emory Lasko, C.S.C, thirteen young men studying to be Holy Cross Brothers live there. One of the fourteen rooms in the Andre House will be a chapel, a memorial to Father John Ryan, C.S.C, who died Dec. 6. 
Eev. Bernard I. Mullahy, C.S.C, Assistant Provincial is acting as a one-man committee to promote and receive donations from Father Ryan's "boys", from his days as rector of Lyons, Dillon and Walsh Halls. A Plaque will be placed inside the chapel, commemorat­ing Father Ryan. 

Vocation Institute July 19 
The fifth annual Vocation Institute will be held July 19 to July 22 at the University, it was announced yesterday by the Eev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C, Di­rector of the Institute. 
Father Wilson, in announcing the fifth annual Institute, said that practical means, both long and short range, of discovering, gniiding and preserving re­ligious vocations will be discussed at the Institute. 
Several sessions of the 1951 Institute will be devoted to the discussion of spec­ial phases of the Integrrated Plan for Fostering Vocations which was worked out at past Institutes. Particular em­phasis this year will be given to the demonstration of practical techniques of vocation recruiting. Also stressed will be tlie need and method of spiritual guid­ance and personal interview. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 




Annual IVriters^ Conference Helps Young Authors 
E
VERY serious young writer wants advice on his work from competent critics. He is interested in the writing principles used by successful authors, too; and he likes to meet and talk with men and women already well established in the field of creative writ­ing and publishing. 
The Writers' Conference, sponsored each summer at Notre Dame since 1949, gives him a chance to do all of these things. Through a series of workshops, plus individual attention to manuscripts, the Conference brings students in con­tact with such people as Jessamyn West, author of The Witch Diggers and The Friendly Persuasion, and Robert Giroux, editor from Harcourt, Brace and Company. 
This year the program will be held from June 23 to June 30, and will also induce a special workshop in "The Teaching of Creative Writing." This section is designed primarily for persons who teach writing in schools and col­leges, and who wish to confer with other teachers and veteran authors and edi­tors on the problems of that field. Other workshops will deal specifically with Fiction and Poetry. 
Besides Miss West and Mr. Giroux, this year's staff will include three pro­fessors from the Notre Dame Depart­ment of English who have distinguished themselves in the field of writing and editing. They are: 
Richard Sullivan, author of First Citi­zen, The World of Idella May, and The Fresh and Open Sky. 
Buttress of Faith Urged at Symposium 
The role of the Catholic Church in 'international affairs was highlighted re­cently during a two-day symposium 
•sponsored by the Notre Dame Com­mittee on International Relations. 
Eight nationally-prominent speakers told the symposium audience that a spiritual buttress of faith and con­science must protect our people if the United States is to remain a great power. 
The speakers at the symposium were Dr. Yves Simon, a member of the Committee on Social Thought at the University of Chicago; Dr. Heinrich Rommen, of St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn.; the Very Eev. Monsignor Harry Koenig, librarian at St. Mary's of the Lake Seminary, Mundelein, HI.; the Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.s.C, head of the Department of History at 
March-April, 1951 
John Frederick Nims, whose posms have appeared in many well known magazines and whose poetry-collections, The Iron Pastoral and A Fmintain in Kentucky have received wide acclaim. 
John T. Frederick, long a prominent figure in national literary circles, and whose books, American Literature, Reading for Writing, and Good Writing are used in many colleges and universi­ties as texts. 
That certainly sonnds like an all-star line-np, doesn't it? 
According to Professor Thomaa E. Cassidy, Director of the 1951 Oadtr­ence, the fee for a sini^e 'workshop will ­be $10. All three workshops may be at­tended for $25. Board and residoiee facilities are also available ri{^t on campus for both men and womoi. More complete information can be obtained by writing directly to Professor Cassidy^ ' 

MEMBERS OF LAST YEAR'S STAFF discuss results of the Notre Dame Writers' Conference. Left to right: noted author Jessamyn West, Professor Cassidy, and Henry Volkner, New York literary agent. 
Notre Dame; the Rev. John Courtney Murray, noted lecturer on the topic of Church-State relationship in this coun­try; Dr. Waldemar Gurian, editor of The Review of Politics; and Dr. Aaron I. Abell, Associate Professor of History at Notre Dame. 


Flannery Edits Paper 
Harry W. Flannery, '23, has resigned as editor of the Los Angeles Examiner to head the Catholic Digest, published at St. Paul, Minn. 
Mr. Flannery has had a wide and distingruished career in news and radio work and is the author of several books, including "Assignment to Berlin." In 1940 he left a St. Louis paper to re­place William Shirer in Berlin for the Columbia Broadcasting Sjrstem. He left Berlin shortly before the United States entered 'World War II. 
A native of Hagerstown, Md., Mr. 

Flannery entered advertising ~ woric in Fort Wayne, Ind. immediately after 
graduation. 

Teachers of Handicapped Father Hesburgh at Tulane 
There is very little that can be done 


Children to Confer Aug. I 
about international peace short of pray­
Latest theories and techniques for er but with the help of God people can 
teaching handicapped children will be "do everything about their own peace 
of soul." 
highlighted during a Workshop on This observation was made at Tulane 
Special Education to be held July 18 to university by the Rev. Theodore M. Hes-August 1 at the University. 
burgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University who spoke at McAlister The workshop will make available tho auditorium as part of the main program knowledge and experience essential for of "Religious Emphasis Week". 
the understanding, teaching, and reha­bilitation of the handicapped child. The workshop will be open to teachers and administrators in both public and pri­vate schools. 
In addition to lectures, readings, dem­onstrations and seminars, the program will include observational field trips to local hospitals and camps for crippled children. Emphasis will be on encourag­ing the development of the whole child —physically, mentally, emotionally and socially. 
The workshop, to be held in the Department of Education at Notre Dame, is sponsored by Notre Dame, The National Society for Crippled Chil­dren and Adults, Inc., and the Indiana Society for Crippled Children and Adults, Inc. Because the sponsors and staff of the worshop consider it a public On the grounds of political action service, no tuition charges will be made. 
there is no sure way to peace, the Rev. Dr. Herschel W. Nisonger, Director of Hesburgh emphasized. But, he said, the Bureau of Special and Adult Edu­there is a sure vsray to peace, on
 a cation at Ohio State University, will be smaller individual scale, that can be Director of the workshop. Assistant achieved by all who are willing to try. Director will be Miss Dorothy Seigle "The tensions and conflicts throughout Principal of the Hanna Homestead the world today are little more than a School for Crippled Children in Fort vast mirroring of the tensions and con­Wayne, Ind. Dr. Bernard J. Kohlbren-flicts that tear the souls of individual ner. Head of the Department of Edu­human beings," Father Hesburgh point­cation at Notre Dame, will serve as co­ed out. "Thus the only place we can ordinator. begin with any kind of realistic ap-
INFORMATION, PLEASE 
How many alumni who graduated with the degree of Bachelor of Science in Physical Education have earned other degrees since gradu­ation? 
Dr. John Scannell, head of the Department of Physical Education is trying to complete the records of his department and asks that alumni with such degrees write him the particulars. 
Information should be sent to: 

Dr. John Scannell Department of Physical Education University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 
proach to peace is right within our own lives. Why not try to establish the for­mula for peace in our own lives first?" 
Faiber Hesburgh's address was spon­sored by the Tulane-Newcomb Interf aith Council, tiie sponsor of Relig^ious Em­phasis Week. In keeping with the Inter­faith theme, the Rev. Carl Lueg, pastor of the Carrollton Avenue Methodist church delivered the invocation for the program, and Rabbi Joseph Schecter of Beth Israel Congregation, pronounced the benediction. 
Father Hesburgh emphasized that "if enough people take the angels' song to heart—^"glory to God in the highest and peace on earth to men of good will'— peace can really come back to earth." 
"But, it must come first of all to the hearts of men and women who people the earth, living with good will." 
Try as they may, people cannot avoid the inner urge of their souls which crave for the peace of God—^the only security in a world of insecurity, the only security that passes from the trials of time into eternity, the Notre Dame vice-president said. 


Murphy Champ Again 
A University senior for the third con­secutive year has captured the individ­ual championship in the William Ran­dolph Hearst Naval ROTC Rifle Com­petition. 
Donal (Correct) J. Murphy, a mem­ber of the Notre Dame Naval R.O.T.C. unit, from Hawthorne, N. J., fired a score of 198 out of a possible 200 in the Hearst matches to win the title. Mur­phy also won the national individual title in 1949 and 1950. 
In team competition, the Notre Dame Naval R.O.T.C. rifle squad placed a close second to the University of Wash­ington's naval team which won the title over a field of 88 Naval R.O.T.C. teams. Washington fired a team total of 947 out of a possible 1,000, while Notre Dame's future ofiicers were two points behind with a score of 945. Notre Daine had captured the team title in 1949 and 1950, and this year's second place score of 945 bettered by 21 points the Irish's winning score of 924 last year, when they beat the University of Washington by three points. 
In addition to Murphy, the Notre Dame Naval riflemen include James W. Hartman, of Vanderlip, W. Va.; Francis 
G. Brickson, of San Antonio, Tex.; Wil­liam K. Hayden, III, of Highland Park, Mich.; and Wayne A. Six, of Quincy, 
III.
 The team is coached by Capt. John 

M.
 Daly, U.S.M.C., and commanding oflj­cer of the Notre Dame Naval R.O.T.C. unit is Capt T. F. Conley, Jr., U.S.N. 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 


Eight Hundred Yeors' Experience Teaciiing Notre Dome Students 
Eight hundred years of teaching ex­perience in walking in and out of the University's classrooms daily and it takes only 32 persons to do it. 

There are exactly 32 teachers at the University who are working on their second 25 years of instruction, alpha­betically from Herbert J. Bott to Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S. c. Father Walsh, one of the two living ex-presidents of the University has been on the faculty since 1008, thereby ranking the others by quite a few years, even counting out the three years (1922-25) he served as president. 
Up to June of last year Mr. Francis 

W. Kervick of the Architecture Depart­ment was crowding Father Walsh but Mr. Kervick's retirement left the for­mer president alone in the field. 
An unmeasured amount of stability is lent to the University faculty by the presence and active teaching of so many 25-year men, and the ALUMNUS, for the record, lists them and their beginning year of teaching here. 
Herbert J. Bott, Marketing, 1926. Rev. Eugene P. Burke, c. s.c. Reli­

gion, 1914. Jose C. Corona, Spanish, 1915. Gilbert J. Coty, Spanish, 1925. Rev. Wm. F. Cunningham, c. s. C, Ed­
ucation, 1919. Paul I. Fenlon, English, 1920. Rev, F. M. Gassensmith, c. s. c. 
Math., 1925. Rev. Henry Gleuckert, C. s. c , Latin, 1923. Rev, Cornelius Hagerty, Reh'gion, 1911. Rev. Kemdt M. Healy, C. s. c , Eng­lish, 1931. Rev. Peter E. Hebert, C. s. C, Latin, 
1914. Frank W. Horan, Engineering, 1925. Frank W. Kelly, Speech, 1925. Clarence E. Manion, Law, 1924. James E. McCarthy, Commerce, 1921. Rev. James H. McDonald, C. S. C, 
English, 1924. Harry J. McClellan, Engineering, 1921. Rev. William McNamara, C. S. c , His­tory, 1926. Rev. Charles C. Miltner, c. S. c. Phi­losophy, 1922. Rev. William H. Molony, C. S. C, 1919. Rev. Michael A. Mulcaire, c. s. c , 1923. Rev. Raymond W. Murray, c. s. c, 1926. 
March-April, 1951 
John A. Northcott, Engineering, 1922. Daniel C. O'Grady, Philosophy, 1926, Elton E. Richter, Law, 1926. William F. Roemer, Philosophy, 1922. Raymond J. Schubmehl, Engineering, 
1921. Walter L. Shilts, Engineering, 1922. Knowles B. Smith, Geology, (Emeri­
tus) 1908. Richard R. Vogt, Chemistry, 1917. George J. Wack, German, 1925. Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, History. 
1908. 


Prof. John Sheehan Repeats 
John H. Sheehan, head of the depart­ment of economics at Notre Dame was elected president of the Catholic Eco­nomic Association for the year 1951, according to a mail vote count an­nounced this week by the Rev. Cletus Dirksen, C.PP.S. secretary-treasurer of the Association. 

As president, Mr. Sheehan succeeds Joseph Solterer, professor of economics at Georgetown University, Washington, 
D. C. 
Professor Sheehan was formerly the national and regional program chair­man, national vice-president and has been for the last three years associate editor of the Association journal, Review of Social Economy. 
Founded in 1941, the golden anniver­sary year of Pope Leo XIII's encyclical, Rerum Novanim, the Association has a membership of more than 300, including representatives from South America, Europe, and Australia in addition to those from the United States. 

History Dept. Hears Erin 
The University's History Department jumped the gun by four days this year to observe St. Patrick's Feast. 
On Tuesday, March 13 in the Law Auditorium Professor Thomas E. Dow­ney read a paper, "The Gaelic League." Professor is one of the outstanding scho­lars of Irish history and language at the University. 
He was followed by Professor Thomas 

E. Brown whose paper "The Pamell Movement" provoked most of the dis­cussion for the evening. Professor Brown last year instituted the University's course in Irish History. 
Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C, author of "God in an Irish Kitchen" and numerous other Irish studies was chainnan of the discussion session. 

Korean Sees No Peace With Communists 
Despite the dispatches fiom Tokyo and second-hand experting by syndi­cated columnists, Koreans will never have a fully united nation untQ all the Communists are driven out. 
That is the opinion of Dr. Paid Chang, engineering instructor at the University and brother of Sooth Ko­rea's prime minister. Dr. John Mynn Chang. Dr. Paul says, /MVith no out­side hdp, and no inside Canmninists— of whatever nationality—we can re­build our nation. 

"Korea is potentially one of the rich­est nations in the East. The industrial north and the agricultural south, divided by the 38th Parallel cannot exist with­out each other. Yon must think of Ko­reans as a homogenous people. 
"From 1910 the Japanese tried to make us to be like than, but as soon as V-J Day came we were Koreans again. Just like that. The present war destroyed our efforts to rebuild Korea, but we can finish the job if. the Kossian and Chinese Communists are pushed out" 
Dr. Chang says the Koreans will never accept the establishment of a "buffer zone" between thonselves and the Communists. Russia, Dr. Chang says wants to stay in Korea because of its ice-free ports, like Hon^uun, where 
U. S. Marine and Army divisions staged an almost miracnlons sea evacu­ation in the middle of last winter. 
Dr. Chang received a Doctor of Science degree from the University at last January's Conuneneement. Previous, ly he had degrees from NYU and Har­vard. His bnrther was chi^ Korean del­egate to the UN General AssemUy in . Paris in 1948 and the following ye u was appointed ambassador to the U. S. 
Wings for a Jones Girl 

Jane Ann Jones gets her Anicr"can .Airlines Ste«ardess Emblem »»hile Herbert E. Jones, '27 beams approval. Herbert E. is business manager of athletics 
Gas Course at Law School 
A course in the Law of Oil and Gas has been inaugurated beginning with the Spring semester of the 1950-51 school-year in the College of Law at the Uni­versity. 
The new course, which will be offered annually in the Notre Dame law school, was inaugurated because of the growing importance of this branch of the legal field. 
In addition to using the classical ap­proach of a casebook, the Notre Dame course will feature audio-visual aids designed to furnish a background to the factual problems involved. Also high­lighted in the course will be the appear­ance of various well-know-n petroleum experts both in the legal and engineer­ing phases of the subject. 
In preparation for the course, Pro­fessor Robert E. Sullivan, a member of the faculty in the College of Law, spent the summer of 1950 and will spend suc­ceeding summers in the Southwest, con­ducting research into legal and practical problems involved in the petroleum in­dustry. 
Twenty percent of the student body in the College of Law at Notre Dame are enrolled in the course during the current semester. 
Freshmen Eligible Again? 
Actual pronouncement of the policy must wait until the University Board of Athletic Control formally declares itself, but most varsity players are deeply concerned over the action taken first by the Southern Conference and now by the Big Ten in tossing out the Freshman Rule. 
If the University follows the action, every position on varsity teams will be tossed wide open for competition from first year men. With such additional manpower available, for once it's the coaches who are not looking worried. 

Talent Scouts Aren't All From Hollywood 
Ken J. Gutshaw, '40, of Union Carbon & Carbide (second from left) on a talent-scouting expedition in Bill Dooley's Placement Office. W. H. Billings, of the same company (left) and E. L. Gibson, standing interview Thomas M. Hinkes, a senior of Wauwatosa, Wis. 
Mahin Heads institute 
William E. Mahin, '28, director of re­search at Armour Research Foundation of Illinois Institute of Technology, has been named director of the metallurgical projects division of a new metallurgical advisory board of the National Research Council. 
Formation of the board, composed of leading industrial and academic metal­lurgists, was announced recently. The 
WILLIAM E. MAHIN, '28 

board will advise the Research and De­velopment Board, Department of De­fense, on the research aspects of some of tlie nation's most critical metals prob­lems. 
The new advisory board's work will be directly in the interests of national security since metals in huge quantities are essential for modern military opera­tions, arms, and armor. Mahin will spend three days each week in Washington, 
D. C, with the remainder of his time devoted to research administration at the Foundation. He was named last year to a three-year term on the National Research Council as representative of the American Society for Metals. He will report to Dr. R. F. Mehl, chairman of the new advisory board. The National Research Council is a part of the Nation­al Academy of Sciences. 
Mahin was named director of research of the Foundation in August 1949. He joined the staff three years earlier as chairman of the metals research depart­ment. 
From 1937 to 1947 he was in charge of metallurgical engineering at Westing­house Electric Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Born November 4, 1906 in Baltimore, Md., Mahin received his B.S. degree in 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

metallurgy at Notre Dame in 1928 and his M.S. degree in metallurgical engi­neering from Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology in 1933. 
He has been in charge of metallurgical research for the Vanadium Corporation of America and was a metallurgist at Inland Steel company. 
He is a member of the Amei-ican So­ciety for Testing JMaterials, American Society for Metals, American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, Institute of Metals, British Iron and Steel Institute, and American Foundry-men's Society. He is chairman of the Chicago section, American Society for Metals, and member of the executive committee of the Chicago section, Amer­ican Institute of Mining and Metallurgi­cal Engineers. He is a member of the national publications committee of the American Society for Metals. 
Mr. and Mrs. Mahin and their two sons and a daughter live in LaGrange, III. 
Warm Springs Bound 

Jack Miles, '47, on his way to Warm Springs, Ga., for treatment for the polio he contracted in 1949 while working as a reporter for the South Bent Tribune, covering a polio epidemic in Benton Harbor, Mich. 
Jack, pictured above with his father, Frank Miles, '21, his fiance Miss Betty Machek of St. Joseph, Jlich., and his mother wrote his own progress report for the November-December ALUMN'US. Further bulletins may be expected from Warm Springs, Jack indicated. 
Meanwhile, Miles, Sr. is busy on the 30-year reunion of his 1921 class. 
NOTRE DAME 
Books 

Rev. O'Brien Authors Book 
On Art of Courage in Life 
Rev. John A. O'Brien, author of the current best-sellers, Where I Found Christ and The Road to Damascus, in­vestigates the great need of people to­day in The Art of Courageous Living, just published by the Declan X. McMul­len Co. of New York. 
Father O'Brien's latest book embodies the latest findings of scientific research on the conquest of fear and the devel­opment of courage. It shows how worry weakens a person and fear paralyzes the springs of action. 
Numerous examples are given show­ing the conquest of fear and the in­fluence of courage. All walks of life are covered. Amundsen, Mandel, Pas­teur, Joan of Arc, George Norris, Gandhi, and Albert Schweitzer are among the individuals discussed. 
"This book," declares Fulton Oursler, "is a timely tonic for our fear-ridden day and will bring inspiration, encourage­ment, and help to all people." Arrange­ments are being made for its publication in Great Britain and its translation into the chief languages of Europe. 
Cii-culation of Where I Found Christ, is now reaching the half million mark. Father O'Brien's next most recent book. The Road to Damascus has ranged among the ten bast-sellers in Catholic bookstores for the past year. A new edition of 100,000 copies is now being planned. 
Trade Representatives Meet 
Representatives from eveiy phase of overseas marketing will take part in the 
- fourth annual World Trade Conference, to be held on May 10 in the College of Commerce at the University. 
Finance, traffic, advertising, and man­agement problems will be stressed. 
Nationally known authorities on in­ternational trade and more than 100 businessmen are expected to attend the all-day session. 
The aim of the conference, according to Chairman Wesley C. Bender, is to bring an exchange of ideas among businessmen and educators in world trade. 
British Scientist Lectures 
Dr. M. J. S. Dewar, eminent British chemist, arrived this month at the Uni­versity to deliever a two-month series of addresses in the Peter C. Reilly Lectures in Chemistry at Notre Dame. 
Dr. Dewar will lecture at Notre Dame each Tuesday and Thursday during the months of March and April. His talks will treat recent developments in theo­retical organic chemistry. 
The British scientist, who now is associated with Courtalds, Ltd., in Berk­shire, England, formerly served on the staff at Oxford University, where he received a doctorate deg^ree. Dr. Dewar has conducted most of his research in the field of theoretical organic chem­istry, although he now is working on absolute rates of free radical reactions. He is the author of a book on organic chemistry entitled "Electronic Theory of Organic Chemistry". 
The Reilly Lectures in Chemistry were established through a gift from Peter C. Reilly, President of the Reilly Tar and Chemical Company, Indianap­olis, Ind. Mr. Reilly is a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees and of the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering at Notre Dame. 
Rhode Island Governor 

Seated, and wearing a Notre Dame ring, is the governor of Rhode Island, John S. McKieman, '34, with his mother. 
John was governor from Dec. 19, 1950 to Jan. 3, 1951. He was Lieutenant-Gover­nor when John Pastore, the governor was named to the U. S. Senate, and John took the governor's oath at 12:25 p. m. Dec 19. 
He is again Lieutenant-Governor, hav­ing given way to Joseph Roberts, who con­stitutionally took office Jan. 3. 
March-April, 1951 
Reprinted from the January-February 'Aiumnus' 
The Alumnus Football Ticket Picture 
or. 

Cutbacks and Rationing, Campus Style 
Your Alumni Board at its annual January meeting moved that "the exist­By M. ROBERT CAHILL, '34 ing system, (of alumni ticket distribu­
Football Ticket Manager tion) .. . be continued." So the 
Board's motion ^vill be carried out, the 
system will be continued, BUT . . . 

remember that old Saturation Point has planned his vacation for a long trip 
we've been muttering about these last to Lansing and the game, the Ticket 
few years? Well, it appears that S Committee would still be glad to con­
Day has arrived. At least the van­

sider his beef to that effect, as far as guard, or its scout patrols. Anyway, 
the local situation will permit. 

Here's the present breakdown on the SMU game: 
Reserved Seat Capacity (including temporary bleachers) 54,194 
Alumni (8,000 at two each) 16,000 
Season Tickets (1950 holders only — no new orders) 16,000 
Students and Wives 5,000 
Southern Methodist allotment 12,000 
Parents of Students 3,000 
Administration, Press, Squad, Faculty, St. Mary's, all others 2,194 54,194 
here's the way Messrs. Supply & De­We're in trouble in our own stadium, 
mand figure to mess up our heretofore too. From now on, we're at the point 
neat little system: of no return on the BIG GAMES at 
Up to now, we've mailed to all of you 

home. This year it's SMU. But it's contributing alumni — about ten thou­
not so bad as the Lansing situation — sand of you — an Advance Sale appli­
we can still send all contributors an cation for every game on the schedule. 
SMU order blank. But ONLY the Ad­At least in theory, every contributor 
vance Sale form, good for two tickets. had the opportunity to apply. 
No general-use form, no additional tickets. And very likely NO SMU Not so in 1951. 
tickets to non-contributors. 
The Michigan State game at Lansing ticket allotment makes such -a move 

None of the figures for the SMU absurd. Moreover, it will probably be 
categories are exact, nor are the allo­the Official Student Trip, so why send cations adequate, but it's the best we 
out order blanks for tickets we know can come up with and yet keep every-^ we can't furnish? Consequently, (de­body reasonably happy. We still think tails aren't yet worked out) some kind it's better than no alumni preference 
of geographic distribution for that at all, a policy followed by many game will be worked out by the Ticket schools with bigger seating capacities. Committee and your Alumni Secretary. 
For the other games, distribution 

It's not as calamitous as it sounds — should be the same as before. We'll yet. It only means that if Joe Alimi-list briefly the usual mechanics: nns in Key West was planning to order 
1. Advance sale to Alumni will open a couple of Michigan States for that JUNE 20 and close JULY 14. 

old roommate in Detroit, he'd best for­get it. The Detroit roommate will 
2. Alumni contributors to the Eighth have to make his own two do, (and 
Annual Alumni Fund for 1950, plus to-do, no doubt!). 
relig:ious and honorary degree holders, Nevertheless, if Joe in Key West will be eligrible for 1951 alumni order 
forms (excepting Michigan State as noted above). 
3.
 Alumni forms will be mailed to contributors as stated prior to June 20th. Forms received will offer two tickets per game and will be honored until July 14 OR UNTIL THE TICKET SUPPLY IS EXHAUSTED. 

4.
 General-use applications will be sent to ALL alumni, for all games EXCEPT MICHIGAN STATE AND SOUTHERN METHODIST, about July 15th. These forms may be used for ordering additional tickets but carry no priority. They are acceptable only AFTER Alumni Advance sale closes July 14, if any tickets remain. 

5.
 General public sale will open as customary on August 1. The Ticket Committee will be pleased to send gen­eral blanks to anyone you may desig­nate as long as tickets are available. 

6.
 Alumni Clubs planning to spon­sor excursions should notify the Ticket Committee or the Alumni Secretary not later than June 20, for tentative reser­vations. Obviously, we cannot handle requests for blocs of tickets for Michi­gan State or Southern Methodist. 


SPECIAL NOTE 
The Alumni Board did not rec­ommend the statiis quo as a per­fect plan. But in the face of a minimum of complications during the 1950 season, and new and changing conditions of military and emergency nature affecting alumni and alumni travel and planning, the Board believes that it was best to avoid further ex­perimenting. Also, in the same connection, discussion of the limi­tations of the Michigan State and Southern Methodist g^ames are being left fluid as long as pos­sible to achieve the major ob­jective of Board and Athletic De­partment thinking—the greatest good for the greatest number. 
—J. E. A. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
THE 1951 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 

Sept. 29—Indiana at Notre Dame Oct. 13—So. Methodist at Notre Dame 
ATHEETiCS Oct 20—Pittsburg at Pittsborgfa 
Oct. 27—Pnrdne at Notre Dame NOT. 3—Navy at Baltimore Nov. 10—^Michigan State at E. Lansing 
Schedules for Baseball, Gdf, Track 
Nov. 17—No. Carolina at Chapti Hill NOT. 24—Iowa at Notre Dame Announced by Athletic Director Krause Dec 1—S. California at Los Angeles 
Schedules for baseball, tennis and golf Notre Dame's golf team—^1951 ver­
The schedule: 

have been announced by Athletic Direct­sion—^will meet ten opponents this sea­
April 16 Iowa, home 

or Edward Krause. The majority of 21 Kentucky, away 
son, five of them on the home course. 
the opponents for these three teams will 23 Indiana, away 
Opening against Iowa here, on April 30 Purdue, home come from Big Ten members with the 
May 3 Detroit, home 

16, the linksmen will end their match 
remainder of the schedules being filled 5 Northwestern, away by Midwest independents. schedule May 21 against Michigan 
7 Loyola, away 12 Wisconsiii, home State and then journey to Columbus 14 Minnesota, away 
The 1951 baseball season will open 
21 Michigan Slate, home on April 13 with Coach Jake- Kline's June 4-3 NCAA Tournament at Coltunbus 
June 4-5 for the NCAA tournament. nine traveling to Columbus for a two-
game series with Ohio State and then returning home to encounter another Big Ten rival, Iowa. Of their twenty-Leahy Beams for a New Daughter 
four games the Irish will take the dia­mond 18 times against Big Ten oppo­nents. Nine of their games will be played at Cartier field. 
The schedule: 
April 13 Ohio State, away 
14 Ohio State, au-ay 18 loHa, home 19 Iowa, home 20 Indiana, away 21 Indiana, ftw:ay 25 Michigan State, home 27 Pittsburgh, away 28 Pittsburgh, away 
May 1 Purdue, home 2 Northwestern, away 4 Illinois Wesleyan, away 8 Michigan, away 9 Michigan State, away 
11 Illinois, away 12 Illinois, away 15 Afichigan, home 16 Northwestern, home 22 Purdue, away 25 Wisconsin, home 26 Wisconsin, home 
June 1 Western Michigan, away 2 Western Michigan, home 
Wisconsin will be the first opponent of the Notre Dame tennis team as they travel to Madison, April 26, to meet the ever-dangerous Badgers. After Wis­consin, Coach Walter Langford will send his netmen against ten opponents and then prepare for the Central Col­legiates here June 1-2, and the NCAA Tournament at Evanston June 25-30. 
The schedule: 
.April 26 Wisconsin at ^(adison 28 Northwestern, here 
May '3 Western Michigan, here 4 Kfichigan at Ann Arbor 5 Michigan State, here 6 Marquette, here 9 Purdue at Lafayette 
12 (a.m.) Duquesne at Pittsburgh p.m.) Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh 

18 Detroit, here The Leahy family of Long Beach, Ind., in an informal portrait. Standing; Frank, Jr., 14;. 
19 Iowa at Iowa City 

Jerry, 7; Francis hunself and Florence, 11. Seated is Mrs. Leahy, hoMiag Fred, V/i% Vat, 4 
June 1-2 Central Collegiates, here 25-26 NCAA Tournament at Evanston 

and Susan Marie, 10, holdmg Patricia, eight days old. Photo Courtesy South Bend Tribune. 
March-April, 1951 n 
exact replica of a set of beads given 

Prof. Buck Receives B.S.A. Wood Bodge; 
to Powell by an African chief, Mr. Buck becomes an honorary member of 

High U.S. Award Atfoined by Only 99 Others 
the Troop I, Gilwell Park, England, of 
Carson P. Buck knows all the angles in mechanical drawing and in scouting too. 
Mr. Buck, associate professor of En­gineering Drawing at the University of Notre Dame has been awarded the Wood Badge by the Boy Scouts of America. He's only the one hundi-eth man in the United States to win this award which is the ultimate in scout­ing. 
What is the Wood Badge? It's award­ed to that scoutmaster or councilor who undergoes an extensive progi-am to enable him to train other scout leaders. To merit this award, a scouter must complete a three-part program of train­ing, testing, and sei-vice to his local council. 
The ijrst part of the program is one of intensive training at the National Scout Reservation in New Jersey. Camp­ing in the open for nine days, these hand-picked men from all over the United States are taught the newest methods in training young men in the various problems of scouting. 
Mr. Buck was one of thirty men se­lected from Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin to attend the convoca­tion. Each man is graded on his abili­ties and comprehension and those who fail to pass any one of the three phases of the program are immediately dropped. Only one hundred out of five hundred candidates passed the complete train­ing. 
In the second phase of the program, the scouter is called upon to write down his knowledge, ideas, and views on scouting. This is accomplished by means of three studies which include many questions for the scouter to answer as fully as he believes is necessary. Each man is allowed nine months to answer the studies. These are then mailed into the National Council and judged by an executive board. 

In the final part of the training pro­gram, the candidate for the Wood Badge must serve his local council for a period of six months. Mr. Buck has been associated with the St. Joseph Valley Council for three years and most recently has been Post Advisor of Post V at St. Joseph's Catholic Church in South Bend. 
The presentation was made at the Scouter's Annual Pot Luck Dinner held in the Navy Drill Hall on February 13. Daniel Ling of Wayne University made the presentation. 
The Wood Badge is an international 
award which was instituted in 1919 to further the training of scoutmasters so 
that they might better serve the youth of the world. The originator of the badge was Baden Powell, founder of the Boy Scouts. 
By winning this award which is an which Baden Powell is perpetual leader. 
Mr. Buck, who has also co-authored a book on mechanical dralwing, now has an opportunity to teach other men to be real leaders. He's a credit to the men of the Boy Scouts who realize that to­morrow's freedom depends on today's training. 
Ireland Succeeds Jordan 
George Ireland, '36, new basketball coach at Loyola in Chicago succeeded his own teammate John Jordan, who recently took over at the University. 
Irelaiid piled up a phenomenal record at Marmion Military Academy, Illinois, going to the State finals five times and winning two regional and two semifinal tournaments in the process. 
In school he was twice selected on All-American teams. His high school outfits won 262, lost 87 in 15 years for a percentage of .751. 
Like Ireland, Jordan goes to Loyola from a high school coaching berth. Jor­dan left Mt. Carmel High School, Chi­cago, last year to assume the coaching duties at the Chicago Jesuit institution. 

TELEVIEWERS ALL ALONG THE CBS NETWORK saw and heard the Notre Dame Glee Club again this year on Easter Sunday night* It was the soni^ters' second appearance on Ed Sullivan's "Toast of the Town" Show ­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Alumni Clubs 
Reagan is handling publicity for the affair and Arnold B. Mormoa, '33, President BuflFolo will have more to send later. 581 Beach Ave., Rochester. 
Xcu- officers for the club: 
President, Maurice F. Quinn, 
Vice-President, Anthony Brick, '36. 
Secretary, James Clauss, '47. 
Treasurer, William Cass, '32. 

On Feb. 24 wc had a luncheon to entertain Moose Krause, the basketball team (which promptly dropped four straight) and visiting brass. There was a nice turnout and cver>-onc enjoyed the witty speeches of the sports critics, athletic directors, etc. 
The audience was particularly impressed with Moose Krause's description of the glowing pros­pects of our fencing team, our golf and tennis teams and the plaudits and glories won by the debate team and glee club. 
Recently we had a retreat at St. Columban's 

Retreat House, near Buffalo. There was excellent 
participation and every member who was present 
returned home maturer and stronger spiritually. 
On ^[arch 29 the glee club will be here and 

weVc up to our ears making the Bufl'alo public 
"Notre Dame Conscious." Klcinhans Hall, wc 
hope, will be bulging for the occasion. 
Cleveland 
The Rocknc ^fcmorial Communion Breakfast of the Cleveland Alumni Club will be held -April 1. 
Athletic Director £d Moose Krause will be the principal speaker, according to club presi­dent Jack Elder. 
Des Moines 
At a recent meeting of the new officers it was decided that the Universal Notre Dame Night celebration be held on April 28. This is the final day of the Drake Relays and the Des Moines Club has pursued a custom of an appropriate celebration on that date for members of the track team that risits the relays. 
Arrangements for this celebration is in the hands of the two vice-presidents who are co-chair­men of the entertainment committee. Wc trust that a University representative will be available to speak before the members and their guests. 
New officers: 
President, F. Afarcellus Wonderiin, '29. 
First Vice-President, Robert Kurtz, '47. 
Second Vice-President, Fred Nesbit, Jr. 

Secretar\--Treasurer, Dr, Edward R. Posner, Jr., '41. 
Mohawk Valley 
New officers to be installed Universal Notre Dame Night: 
Ed Sweeney, '30, President. 
Mike McGuirl, Jr., '49, Vice-President 
Louis P. Clark, *34, Secretary-­
Phil Aquino, '50, Treasurer. 

Our current president, Ed Noonan, has left Utica to take a position in Buffalo with the National Labor Relations Board. He is home weekends but plans to move his family to Buffalo as soon as possible. Vice-President Bart O'Shea is acting in his absence. 
Our Universal Notre Dame Night Obser\ation is sclieduled for April 2, in Hotel Hamilton. Tom 
Lima 
With the enthusiastic assistance of Eric Rev de Castro (1949), wc had a second meeting on March 7, with the intention of definitely forming the Notre Dame Club in Peru. It was held at the Club Rcgatas Chorrillos, a beautiful spot nearby Lima, and wc certainly were very happy of being together, recalling our wonderful expe­rience at Notre Dame and more than e\'er appreciating the benefits of such able teachers and kind spiritual advisers. 
The following were present at the reunion: Manuel del Castillo, William J. Crosby, Guillermo Denegri, Francis Havclick, Jr., Raul Ibanez, John Kinsella, Arthur Kirby, Jose Antonio Lavelle, Enrique LuUi, Andres Afalatcsta, Luis Pallais, Hector Rey de Castro, Eric Rev de Castro, Luis Rivera, Manuel Villanueva. 
The Club was founded and the following offi­

cers were elected: 
President, Andres Malatcsta. 
Vice-President, Francis Havelick, Jr. 
Secretary*, Eric Rc)- de Castro. 
Treasurer, Enrique LiUli, '45. 

Wc are planning to meet at least every two monllis and we expect that now we shall be prepared to offer some cooperation furnishing you with the kind of information you may want to have printed in the Alumnus. Erick will write you at length giving you full details regarding the formation of the club. 
Now that the Club is a reality you can rest assured that you shall be kept posted of correct addresses of all the alumni and old students in Peru. 
D 

Pittsburgh 
The first "mixed" Communion Breakfast of the 

Club turned out to be a ver>- successful event. 
About seventy attended (this includes members and their wives) 10:00 o'clock Mass at St. Paul's Cathedral, celebrated by Monsignor Pauley. The group was especially welcomed and space was reserved in the front of the Church. 
Following Afass, the group assembled in the 

P.A.A. Annex for a delicious breakfast. Father Vince Brennan spoke vrr>- shortly in welcoming the "wives" to this Club function and recalling the memor>- of Knute Rockne and other deceased Alumni. 
The main speaker of the day was Ver>* Rev­erend Vernon F. Gallagher, C.S.Sp., brilliant young president of Duquesne University. Father Gallagher delivered a well-organized and cogent address on Catholic education versus secular edu­cation. 
He emphasized the modern, materialistic ap­proaches in secular education which result in in­decbion, unrest, selfishness, and bad morality in the world, and contrasted them against the Catho­lic educational perspective which includes the spiritual and produces true values, contentment, respect for law and justice. 
Jack Montevcrde deser\'es most of the credit for carr%'ing out the many details incident to this mixed Communion Breakfast. There were a great many things to handle, and he did them well, including a good toast-master job. 
Rochester 
Wc can report four brand new officers, as follows: 
Judge Thomas J. Meaner, '36, Vice-President 1100 Highland, Rochester. 
>Villiam T. Whekhan, '39, Treasurer 
185 North Village Road, Rochester. 
Arthur B. Curran, Jr., '30, Secretary 
32 Femwood Park, Rochester. 

Scranton. 
The club netted $250 on its Navy Game tele­

vision show. Check for Foundation enclosed. 
Dan HalfMn, '31—of RCA—came through with' a 

projector and we picked up the signal of WFIL­
TV in Philadelphia, 85 miles away, and projected 
it on a 5.T7-foot screes. Reception was perfect. 
The lateness in forwaxfiing this contribution is due to the fact that the club didn't get together until just recently when we had our annwal "mixed" dinner at the Scranton Cotmtry Club, elected new oflScers and had a grand time. 
Tony Wdtber, our retiring secretary, is late with his report on the new men, but will have it for the next Alumnus. Jerry Rircell is our new president. 
Son Antonio 
The Notre Dame Club of San Antonio elected Ed Conroy President and Mike CooJey Secretary-Treasurer for 1951. The election was held at the home of retiring I^^s. Leonard Hca and was attended by 18 members. They were Judge Al Heck, Harold Tynan, Dr. Charles Raley, Bill Dielmann, Jr., Jcsic Poston, Ball Lanna, **Tcx" Allison, Dick Keo^ian, Bob Botkr, Ed Canmf, John Bitter, Pete Brosscan, BiD Fink, CharBe Bknnfield, FTc Gerry JohiMon, Lt. Jim Sut h and Larry iVingertcr. 
A dinner was held for Father H. J. Btdgcr, C.S.C, of the ND physics department in the Tapestry Room of St. Anthony's Hotel. Here for the dedication of the new Science Building of Incarnate Word College. Dinner was well at­tended, almost 100 per cent of members partici­pating. Father Bolger brought members up to date in ND current efforts in the field of science and future projects in the planning stage. How­ever he did not escape many questions as to what happened to the 1950 football team and what the prospects arc for the future. 
Jc^mny Bitter, class of 30—proud father of 8-Ib. boy, Jimmy, bringing to three the prospective number of N D students from his family. 
Plan to have meeting a month. Next meeting takes shape of dinner and showing of ND High­lights. Members to bring family and friends. 
Los Angeles 
New officers elected at the Feb. 24 meeting: 
Ben Alexander, 'SI, President. 
John McArdle, '35, First Vice-President. 
Charlie Murphy, '^ , Second Vice-President. 
Bill Heam, '35, Secretary. 
Dr. Vince Gorrilla, '21, Treasurer. 

Directors named are Dr. HaroM Goertn, '40; Gene Ling, '37; Bioo Vogd, '25; Doug Daley, '30l Bob Kelly, '34; Jodge Al A. Sccrtt, '22, and Jack Zilly, '47. 
Will have plenty on our Universal Notre Dame Night Obsen-ation for the nexxt issue, so please save us some space. 
Alumni Classes 
50-Year Reunion 
JoneS, 9,10 
Before 1900 
Mr. Charles J. Baab, 
90 Sambourne St., 
Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
Dear Babb: Joe FarrcII has given mc your letter. I had intended writing you but somehow never 
did get around to it. 1 remember you as one of 
the few Penns>'K*ania bo>-s at Notre Dame >vhcn 
I entered in September, 1899. I believe you were 
taking the Electrical Engineering course and lived 
in Serin Hall. 
We did not have the same classes and I lived in Brownson Hall until Corby was opened in November, 1899. I was taking the Short Course in Applied Electricity which you will remember was a hobby of Prof. Jerome J. Green. We started with 13 boys in September and by Febru­ary I was the only one left. All the others quit school or changed courses. I tell the fellows around here I graduated at the head of my class in June, I90I. I was the only one in it. I don't tell my scholastic average. 
I had mathematics under Kegler, who I believe was a star on the 1898 football team, **Hair Pulling" Bcniti and Morrison. Chemistr>' under Father Maguirc, Mechanical Drawing under Ackcrman and Physics and Electricity under Jerome J. Green. I spent my afternoons in the basement of Science Hall taking what was Course 1 and 2 in E.E. with Prof. Green. 
A! Kadiitr, Green*s Laboratory Assistant, and Pha (Boots) Batler, the Canadian cx-sailor, 5­milo runner on the track team and School Elec­trician were taking E.E. and I had many con­tacu and work with them under Green, such as climbing the Church Steeple to periodically charge the storage batteries for Green's \virclcss ap­paratus. Also( climbing the Dome to renew the lights of the crescent and crown. Installing tlie first telephone system and doing the electrical work in Washington Hall for the \-arious student pla>-s and shows, with Frands (Runt) Cornell. 
Jonnie Nelson lived in Corby and was in all my math classes. He graduated in Civil and went on to be Chief Engineer of Phaadclphia and a very active and prominent alumnus. 
The champion track team of 1899 and 1900 had James F. Powers, pole vault and high Jump. Corcoran 100, 220 and 440 yards and Big John Eggeman shot put. 
Gibson was the pitcher for the baseball team and won every game and later went on to the big leagues. 
The football team was only considered practice for the big schools but was sparkplugged by Father John Bailey, quarterback. Big John Egge^ man, center, and Angus McDonald, fullback, and how he could punt a football. In practice one day on Brownson campus I saw him punt a ball from one goal post to the other, 100 >-ards. 
I remember the Gym fire. In fact, I have some snapshots of it. 
I have lived in Harrisburg since 1902 and was Elect. Chief Engineer and \-arious jobs with the Hanisbui^ Steel Corp. until I retired in 1947. 
For years I never came in contact with a Notre Dame man until Joe Farrell came along about 1930. 
I remember all the men referred to in your letter to Joe and hope this will revive the same memories and associations with scliool days for you as your letter to Joe did for me. 
Hope we can get together some time and talk over the best years of our lives at Notre Dame. Yours, Edward C. Smith 
I sure would like to see the old school again and my old room in Sorin Hall. The last visit I made to Notre Dame was in 1914. However, I have seen all the eastern games over the years that Notre Dame has played, with the excep:ion of the first two games witli the Army. 
Some of my classmates were Father John Farley*, Father Stciner (who was then taking the elec­trical engineering) who I believe is now Provin­cial of the Order of the Fathers of the Holy Cross, Angus McDonald, Johnnie Neeson, **Big John" Eggeman, Frank Ward 0*MaIIe>-, Louis 
M. Reed, J. A. Nieuwland (Father), Al Kachur, Francis Cornell, and others. 
I note tliat you have an old timer on your committee, Edward C. Smith, '01. He must have been at Notre Dame in my time, but I don't remember hiiri. Of course, fifty years is a long strelcli to remember everj-thing. 1 would be pleased to excliange notes with our friend Smith, if he is so disposed. I am the oldest Notre Dame man in Northeastern PennsyK-ania. 
1910 
Mr. James Armstrong 
University of Notre Dame Foundation 
Dear Jim: 

Thank you so much for the telegram telling of the death of Father Aforiarty. I understand from Fathers Murphy and Burke that you sent a similar telegram to all of the class members. This was very thoughtful of you and I am very thankful to you. I attended the funeral and was one of the pallbearers. Mory had the largest funeral I have ever seen, the lai^est number of priests I have ever seen congregated. They occupied the whole one-half of the church. Great crowds of people practically sturoundcd the churcli. He certainly was well beloved and very ­popular. He and I have been ver>- close since wo were boys. He really was part of my family. He married me, baptized all of the children, buried Mary and my mother and my father and married my daughter. Sheila. Needless to say I felt very badly. He was one of the finest charac­ters I have ever known and I don't believe he needs many prayers. If he docs, the Lord help the rest of us. 
Thank you so much, Jim. Sincerely, Harry 
1920 
NEW CLASS OFFICERS 
President: J. Paul Loosen, President, First Bank of Okarche, Okarche, Oklahoma. 
Vice-President (North): Richard B. Swift, 220 Hill­crest Avenue, Davenport, Iowa. 
Vice-President (East): John T. Balfe, John T. Balfe Co., 60 E. 42nd Street, New York 17, New York. 
Vice-President (Mid-West): Paul R. Conaghan, Room 1768, 203 So. LaSalle St., Chis^o 4, 111. 
Vice-President (West): Edward P. Madigan, 5528 Glenbrook Dr., Oakland, Calif. 
Secretary: Ralph W. Bergman, 1609 N. JefTersin Ave., St. Louis 6, Mo. 
Treasurer: Harry P. Nester, 39 W. Broad St., Columbus, Ohio. 
30-Year Reunion 
June 8, 9,10 
1921 
The M. A. Hanna Company 
1300 Leader Building 
Cleveland, Ohio 
Dear Dan: 
Thank you ever so much for your note re­
garding reunion time. 
It would be a real pleasure to join you but 
they are keeping us so busy that it is impossible 
for me to make any commitments far in advance. 
Howc\er I do appreciate your writing me. 
Very sincerely, 
Joe Thompson 
GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
State of Illinois 
Norman C. Barry 
Senator 
My dear Dan: 
It's gofxl to know reunion time is here again 
and thanks for the reminder. 
However, it does come as a shock to me to 
realize that another five years have come and 
gone. Time sure gallops on — but as for me — 
I just slowed dou-n to a trot. I expect to be 
there and know a good time will be had fay all. 
Always good to hear from, or about, any one 
of the class — even if only their name. I will 
notify as many as I can about the reunion 
coining up. 
Sincerely, Norm Dear Dan: Enclosed is a clipping that might explain some things to you. Frank asked me to write and let you know that he is on the mend (we hope). Quoting Geoi ^ Wttercid's letter to Frank "We will team up as the two conservative members of the Class. In fact 'Models* neither smoking nor drinking in excess — doing everything in mod­eration.** 
Hoping this finds you in good spirits and plan­ning to see you come June. 
We are very much concerned about Frank, however, there has been a slight improvement in the last few days. He is, of course. In St. Vin­cent's Hospital with three special nurses a day. 
Sincerely, 
Maddeine Coughlin 
COUGHUN HAS HEART ATTACK 
(Clipping from Indianapolis newspaper) 
Frank £. Coughlin, first deputy Attorney Gen­eral, sufiTcred a heart attack in Superior Court 5. Hospital officials were unable to detennine his 
condition at once. 
Coughlin, a Notre Dame football star in the days of Knute Rockne, did not lose consciousness when stricken. He walked to the nearby law library of the Courthouse, lay down and waited for a police rescue squad to administer oxygen. 
At his own request he was taken to St. Vin­cent's Hospital after being treated by an am­bulance doctor. 
An unsuccessful c:andidate for the Republican nomination for Appellate Court Judge in 1949, he has been on the Attorney General's s:afT since 1945. His home is at South Bend. 
1418 Burt Street Saginaw, Michigan Dear Dan: 
Thank you very much for your letter in relation to the reunion at Notre Dame and the Class of 1921 membership enclosure. 
The Noire Dame Alumnus 

I shall presently take the opportunity to scan the list and contact my friends among the '21 alumni as you suggest. 
It was certainly nice to hear from you and to know you continue to be so active in University affairs especially in respect to matters concerning our Class. 
With cordial good wishes, I remain Sincerely yours, Alfred N. Slaggcrt 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Notre Dame, Indiana Department of Biology 

Dear Dan: Many thanks for your interesting letter and the accompanying informative **Iatcst list of our class." 
Without doubt, we of the Class of '21, will look forward with anticipated pleasure to our thirtieth anniversary reunion. Your letter and the list of members will be a real stimulus to many to attend and to have an enjoyable time this June. Sincere congratulations, Dan, for the time 
' and thought you have employed in doing your share in making this event a real success; which I am sure it will be. 
Tell our mutual friend, Joe Heimann, that I am glad to hear that he plans on driving up with you, and hope that his practice docs not force him to change his mind. These obstetricians have an inconvenient calendar to follow. 
If^ I can be of any aid in making this reunion a success, please do not hesitate to f:all on me. We, at Notre Dame, are gratefully aware of the aid which our alumni are doing for the Univer­sity, and are especially proud of the contribution they are making in civil life as leading Catholic laymen. Consequently, Dan, if I fran help in any way to make the reunion more pleasant for the returning "veterans" of 21, I want to do so. 
Sincere best wishes and again congratulations for the work you arc doing for the University and for your significant success in the practice of law. 
Very sincerely, (Rev.) Bob Shechan, C.S.C. 

GERALD J. CLEARY Escanaba, Michigan Dear Dan: It was nice hearing from you, and I am hope­ful that I will be able to attend the reunion. 
My memory takes me back to South Bend, Chapin Street, PLACE HALL. I kinda would like to retrace some of our steps, during reunion time. 
Keep me posted on dates of reunion, and also if we will be staying on the campus, or downtown. Kind regards. Sincerely, Gerald J. Cleary 
School of Education GONZAGA UNIVERSITY 

Spokane 11, Washington Office of the Dean Maurice G. Flaherty 
Dear Mr. Duffy: I received your letter some time ago, and en­joyed looking over the list of the old alumni, and appreciated it all very much. Since I was there, 1917-1918, old ND has become a city in its own right. I have not been back there in a long time. I regret very deeply that I am unable to come to Chicago and that I am unable to attend the reunion. 
Thanking you very kindly for your letter and publicity, I am. Sincerely yours, 
M. G. Flaherty, S.J., Dean, School of Education 

. KINGSTON PRODUCTS CORPORATION Kokomo, Indiana' Dear Dan: Planning to be with you in June and hope to see a big turnout. 
Sincerely yours, 
M. E. Zimmercr 
LALLY'S A Division of Joseph B. Eastman Corporation Des Moines 8, Iowa 

March-April, 1951 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
^^^^^^^^^_ ' ­
I ' ''-'-"^''^^^^^^^^1 
L J-"' 
' '-^^^^^I^^^B ^
'''''^^^^^^p^ ^^^ 
^^^^^^^^^^^^Hr^H^^^^H 
JACK M. WORLEY 
John F. (Jac) Morley, 1935 graduate from Assistant Sales Manager to the position" of Sales Manager of the Chi­cago Metropolitan Division of the Pabst Sales Company, it was announced by 

I. E, Harris, the company's Vice Presi­of the University, has been promoted President in Charge of Sales. 
Morley joined the Pabst Sales Com­pany in 1941 as a salesman and later became Supervisor in the Chicago Met­ropolitan Division. In 1948, he was pro­moted to the position which he has held to date. 
From 1943 to 1946, Morley served with the Naval Air Force as a Lieu­tenant. 
Bom in Chicago, Illinois, Jack is mar­ried and the father of three boys. 

Dear Dan: It seemed mighty fine to hear from you and to say the least the list of the classmates was really appreciated. It certainly is with quite a little sadness that you review this list and notice the number of men that are deceased, but it has a sobering effect on all of us making us realize that we are not getting any younger. I am certainly planning on attending this re­union and I am also planning on writing to a few of the men on attending. You know a list of graduates or classmates is something like the curing of the liquid that Kentucky is famous for, a year or two out of school wouldn't mean much, but now that it is close to thirty years after school, it has a mellowing effect and it is with quite a little bit of interest that we review the list of addresses. 
Thanks again for your letter — wishing you the best of health and I do hope that I will have the opportunity of seeing you in June. 
Very truly yours, 
L. L. Lally LAFAYETTE COLLEGE Easton, Pennsylvania Department of Athletics 
Dear Dan: Your multi-paragraphed letter on the superior 
en^Mssed stock reached me a short time ago aad it exuded ai confiality that must be Kcogaized — you, amaze me with yoor sustained eathusiaiB aad I thank yon for remembcriBg aae. 
My plans for the mmmer call for a trip tu Laguna, where I have my boaK. My oldest daui^ter gradoatei from o«ir high school out there and I must be cm the groimd for the ccremonieiL Sony this conflict precludes me fxoax bong ba^ there with you, Joe, Paul P., Leo aad the others 

—
 the mellow reminiscing will be terrific and I im^[ine **longing for the flowing bowl" will aot be one of your minor diversifHis. 

Attended a dinner with Frank the other ni^ t . 


—
 the stresses and strains of our JMtScd business have deepened those parallels ^ipreciably — an­other year like the last one and he w ^ look as old as yours truly. 


Should you meander back into these soot-furred areas you can reach me here in Doylestowa oa the fringe of Philly and only 60 miles from N.Y.C —the number is Ekiylestown 4842. 
Chucker, the Mrs. and mysrU will motor tq> to Charics A. Gnmler*s 100-acre play farm at Mniis, Mass., for the Easter vacation — I shall carry your message to him.' Dan, you should see this layout on the Charles River —17 rooms and only five fireplaces — be Is strictly In the top bracket of the Station Wagon set. 
It's too bad we live so far apart, for your nimble wit and ready jesting would work wondcis with my badly scarred soul. Carry my greetings from the third rib area to all my old running mates. 
My cordial personal remembrances to Mrs. Duffy and your ever crispy self. Sincerely, Bfaury 
FOURTEENTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT Joseph F. Sanford, Judge Muskegon, Michigan 
Dear Dan: It was a pleasure to receive your recent letter and to know that a special effort Is being made to have as many of the class of '21 attend the reunion In June as is humanly. possible. As far as I am concerned, there Is no one in that dats that I don't want to see. I have forgiven aU the fellows who borrowed my shirts, ties, under­wear, etc., and hope they have forgiven me for returning the favor. 
To my knowledge Charles fotrsck (Jock) Muridiy of Memphis, Tcnn., has not attended a reunion since his graduation, and I hope that be will gladden my heart as well as those of other classmates by letting us look at him In June. His ability as a student was surpassed only by his luck in winning the spinning top games that frequently delayed our attendance at law classes. Some of us would welcome the opportunity to win a few of those dollars back, so we will be waiting for him to show up. 
You will remember our famous classmate, now known as Hon. James L. OToole, of Pittsburgh, Pa. The only time I could think fast enough to reply to his wisecracks was the time he called me "Merkle" in order to liken me to the ball player who made the mistake of failing to touch first base. It Is with pleasure that I recall having the presence of mind to retaliate by calling him "Marty" in memory of the OTooIe whose record as a pitcher won him the moniker of the "Pitts­burgh Lemon." 

Our old friend Jerry Hoar could cut expenses for the members of our class attending the reunion by offering free dry cleaning and laundry service, although we all are at an age that calls for brii^ing bibs to catch stray food and drink that' misses our mouths. 
Clyde A. Walsh of Campus, Illinois, the big banker, will undoubtedly .be willing to accept post-dated checks to enable some of us to pay our expenses back home-
Walter (Hick) (only ten more laps. Walter) Sweeney Is near enough to the campus to qwad plenty of time at the reunion. 
My former roommote,. Edmund J. Mea^wr, should buy me at least one soft drink In return for not only waking him for classes nearly every morning, but leading him to school thereafter. 
G. C. Witteried of Chicago should attend, although the last time we got together I took his 
17 
coat by mistake. The fact that it was several sizes too large didn't bother mc. He will be remembered as the star logic student in Father Con Haggerty*s class, at least by the other stu­dents, if not by Father Haggcrty. 
Charles M. Dtiim of the North Dakota Dunns should be able to win enough in a crap game to finance the trip to the reunion, if he doesn't wish to draw on what by now should be a healthy bank account. 
I have many memories of other members of the class, but it would take a book to record them, and this letter has already established a record for me. If any of the bo>*s have found any ar­ticles of clothing thc>' borrowed from me, these will be gratefully accepted at the reunion. 
I do think it a splendid idea for you to bring Dr. Joe Hcimann along, because then we will be assured of free medical seiA-icc for %vhatcvcr ills may befall us during the celebration. 
I surely am looking forward to the reunion w-ith pleasure, and hope that your efforts toward having a good attendance will be well rewarded. 
With kindest personal regards, I am Sincerely yours, Joe 
J5hn M. Clanc>-, Director, SH.-\DY TRAILS UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN SPEECH IMPROVEMENT CAMP March 5, 1951 
Dear Dan: I'll be there if I can, And I think I can. But I'll have to plan, So give me the dates, Dan. 
Sincerely yours, John N. CHanc)* 1256 FerdoQ Road Ann Arbor, Michigan 
1922 
DEATHS Wa>'ne Bums, February 13, Peoria, lUinou. 
25-Year Reunion 
June 8, 9,10 
1926 
From Burt Cousin , Minneapolis: 
Just a note to let you know that I am finally established here in God's country. Be sure and sec that my address is changed in all depart­ments from 
7704 Country Club Court 
Clapton 5, Mo. 
TO 
1636 W. 26th St. 
Minaeapolts 5, Minn. 
I hope to become connected with the Twin Cit>- club now. 
I wTOte to Ray Durst and also sent a donation to George Hartnett for our SILVER JUBILEE. 1 hope to be there for all of it and so far have to give up our Proctologic meeting in At­lantic City to make it but this happens only every 25 years. 
Best regards and Barbara joins me in sending our best. Sincerely, Bert 
1925 
DEATHS Waiiam A. Mender, November 13, 1930, San Antonio, Texas. 
1927 
NEW CLASS OFFICERS President: Luther Swygert, LL.B., 6630 Hahman Ave., Hammond, Indiana. 
Vice-President (Mid-West): Al Doyle, LL.B., 716 Lincoln Way East, Mishau-aka, Indiana, 
Vice-President (East): Jack Hicok, A.B., 45 Wind­
sor Rd., Hasting-on-Hudson, New York. Vice-President (South): Tom Green, Ph.B.F.Com., West Bldg., 3(W/2 Chambers St., Conroe, Texas. 
Vice-President (West): Bernard Abbrott, LL.B., 866 Vermont, Oakland, Calif. 
Secretary-, Frank Moran, A.B., 633 E. Monroe St., South Bend 6, Indiana. 
Treasurer: Stephen Ronay, A.B., 1851 N. College St., South Bend, Indiana. 
1928 
NEW CLASS OFFICERS President: Louis F. Buckley, 4700 W. Adams, Chicago 44, Illinois. 
Vice-President (Mid-West): Thomas B. Bj-rae, 2248 StiUman Rd., Cleveland Hgts. 18, Oh!o. 
\^cc-President (East): Bernard J. Bird, 367 W. Dclcvan Avenue, Buffalo 13, New York. 
\nce-Prcsident (South): James T. Canizaro, 1204 Kenwood Place, Jackson 28, Miss. 
Vice-President (West): Arthur L. Canty, 5757 Wil­shire Blvd., Terminal Annex Box 2051, L05 Angeles 54, Calif. 
Secrciar>-: Leo R. McInt>Tc, 3004 Turner St., .Allcntown, Pa. 
Treasurer: Bernard A. Barber, Cherrv' St., Ka­tonah, New York. 
1929 
Frank J. Kelly, M.D., announces the opening of his office at 1411 Gray Avenue, Houston, Texas, limiting his practice to internal medicine. 
John T. Burke announced the formation of a new advertising organization to be known as Burke Advertising Associates. Tlie offices are in Boston, Mass. 
1932 
Joseph F. WiUis, LiN-ingston Manor, New York, 
N. Y., received his LL.B. from St. John's Uni­versity in February'. 
1933 
Thomas B. Dorris, '33, is a contributor to a new book edited by Zimmerman and La\'inc, ''Chemical Engineering Costs." Tom, who is Chief Chemical Engineer for Sprout Waldron and Co. of Muncy, Pa., wrote two of the sections on size-reduction equipment. Unit for- Primary Reduction, and Units for Intermediate Reduction. 
1934 
NO WONDER! New names are needed in these dispatclies all the time, but the November-December issue over­did the thing. 
Tlirough a make-up slip-up, about 20 names not of our clan sneaked in from another class column, and we hear that many more wrinkles were added to '54 brows as brow owners tried to match the names wi .h that guy down in Lyons sub. 
SAYS MOTSETT Quit tr>-ing. He ain't the guy. That was an­other class. Bill Motsett, spokesman for furrowed browmcn, said: "Brother, I'm slipping. I couldn't remember ANY of the gu>'5 in the first part of your story last time!" 
(For mcmor>- reassurance, just try marking out that issue from *'do a solo" to "Alibis: None" in the second column. We're still tr>*ing to return his lost column to some hard-workin' secretary*. '37? '38? Brother Hellbox reached for the wrong galley, dassall') 
\IML CALL The mailman strides boldly to our box now, ivithout his Fort Benning-type GI crawl through the shrubbery. ^Vhen he brings '34 mail, we no longer zero in a squirrel rifle on his Dixieland grey cJiest. We're friends; look w*hat he brought despite traditional storm, sleet, and dark of night: 
BUI Fromm wrote: 
"Not much to tell you. Married; six«ycar-oId boy. My business is Wesley and Fromm, manu­facturers reps at 5254 W. Madison, Chicago. Kfoved here from Racine, Wise, in 1948. Mem­ber Oak Park club. See Jack Quirk at the Homestead occasionally. Sorry to say I haven't been at ND or ND club meetings in several years." (Keep ^%Titing, Bill, and take a look at both ND and the revitalized Chicago club at first chance.) 
A 3-YEAR CONTRACT FOR HUGHIE 
QUIRK AGAIN'! 
Bob Hanley: "Sorry I missed the election (ND club of Chicago). Sec Jack Quirk now and then and Tom Dugan. Guess I have to look forward to the reunion in 1954. Used to travel into Peoria and see Bill Motsett and in Clinton, la., Tom Cakes." 
On a letterhead of "F. W. Honerkamp, Inc. —Plj-wood, Plastics, and Doors, 940 Bryant Ave­nue, Bronx, N. V.," Frank writes: 
"On Dec. 2, a son 9 lb., 4 oz., Robert, was bom at Midwood hospital, Brooklyn. This rounds out the family of Mar>' Lou (7{4)» Frank, Jr. (414). and Philip (3). I am in the ply^vood and door business, and have with me my brother, Frederick W. Haaerkamp, Jr., '39, and Robert 
J. Burke, '43." Congratulations, Frank, and you, too, write again. 
MD'S FROM ND 
Dr. Cari D. Makart epitomized from 1123 Noble, Chicago: 
"Since IcaWng ND, I've managed to become an &ID, travel around the world a few times as a ship's surgeon, travel more during four years in service—but still single. Now confining prac­tice to ear-nosc-throat in the loop (what a spot for THAT!—EFM). 
"Dr. Cornell Dercng is the one alumnus I sec quite often (aside: thought it would be Jack Quirk). He is now a family man with two children. He is specialiring in orthopedics." 
BUSYMAN MAC 
Jolin McShane of 7321 Indiana, Chicago, came back into focus in the ND scene with a 6ne message: 
"This is my first contact with ND and the ALUMNUS. Got M.A. from DePaul, nights. I at Shiel school. . Am v.p. of construction firm. 
The Noire Dame Alumnus 

am accounting management engineer. Lectured do consulting work on the side, and am employed by Spiegel, Inc. (No wonder no smoke signals to the class, Jackson; youse must never sleep). 
LAY ON, McSHANE 
More McShane, bless ium for writing these busy days: "We have a full house—three kings and a pair of queens, including the "boss** and myself. The "boss" was Ellen Gilmore and there are John Jr., Paul Michael, and Ellen Gilmorc McShanc, II. Space and time would not be sufficient to sing their praises. Our house is the hub of the universe. Nothing is of any im­portance save the happiness of our family." 
Nothing except more good news like that. John. . Glad the ice is broken; keep it crumbled. 
TULSA TALK 
Lest you outlandcrs feel piqued at that pro­vincial Chicago letter writing group, leave us move to the oil stained plains of the Midland Empire. Ok-lahoma! 
To befuddle all N'Yawkers, including Hugh Fitzgerald, who think Oklahoma a fictional back­drop peopled only from curtain-up to curtain-down, we present B>Ton **Cap" Smith, who pens from Tulsa: 
"To end '50, I thought a report from me would be in order after seeing the question in the last ALUMNUS: where is Byron Smith? 
The answer is, in Tulsa, in the business of manufacturing truck and heavy trailer equipment and distributing pipe line, general contracting, and constructing machincr)*. Now I would like to know where Frank McCann, John Fischer, and Sid Stembci^ are. I still manage to see ND play at least one game a year—this year, Tulane and Michigan State—and I'm anxious for the ND-Oklahoma series to start." 
(For "Cap," now president of that Leiand Equipment Co., and for others, the addresses are: Frank McCann, Monohan-McCann Store, 1(X) 5644 Stanton Ave., Detroit 8 (or W. John Fisher, Roanoke Ave., Newark 5, N. J.; John F. Fisher, 323 South St., Chardon, O.?); Sid Sternberg: no listing, sorry to say. Any clues? 
Carmi Belmont, valued assistant of Bob Cahill's, sent a much-appreciated Christmas card. Carmi is a '36 cousin of '34. 
That's the mail, men. Can't we do better than that? 
"WE HONOR TONIGHT ... " 
From other sources, we pile up these words about these good men: 
Biggest gathering of *34 men (five!) since re­union time was at a very unusual home-town testimonial in Dixon. III., for Bob Cahill (ya'all know- Bob. Y'all'd better!) and Herb Jana. 
Bob and the N D business manager of athletics formed a tandem team in Dixon when the Notre Dame Club of Rock Riv-er Valley turned out the town to raise a volley cheer for the honored pair. 
SUPPERTIME SUN 
Someone over yonder decided that with AII-Americans and coaches and other hcadliners being feted willy-nilly, it was high time for two able men behind the Ail-Americans to get some spotlight suntan. 
It dawned on Dixon that their own two wan­dering boys, Bob and Herb, had become known the nation wide in their field for athletic innova­tions, ticket technique, and fair dealing. Dixon had never let them know how they felt. 
On Jones-Cahill Night, Dixon let them know. 

REUNION, JR. 
The three-act tribute drew FIVE men of '34, counting Ed Krause as just one. Bill Motsctt came over from Peoria, Bill Ayres from South Bend, Mansfield from Chicago, and the fifth . . . ? Walker? Thompson? Fitzgerald? OH, Cahill! That's right! 
(Krause note: that ever-popular giant, one who has gone far, is just ten pounds over that '34 playing weight. How many of you gentle readers can say that?) 
Motsett's wife was there, mother of his five. 

and after meeting her, it was easy to sec why President Bill has made a success of the W. J. ^fotsett, Inc. industrial supply firm. STUDEBAKER'S CHAMPION 
Bill Ayrcs is now acting public relations head 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
KENNETH COOK 

Ken Cook, Director of Catholic Rela­tionships Service of the Boy Scouts (of America) has heen connected with the Scouting movement since 1926. 
He began in Oak Park, 111., as a Field Scout E.xecutive but his work has not been confined to this field of social ac^ tivity. 
He has been an instructor in a boys' high school, taught classes in swimming and life saving and last year was a del­egate to the Mid-Century White House Conference on Children and youth. • 
In 1932 Mr. Cook organized the Fed­eration of Catholic Charities in Mon­treal and served the next three years as its Executive Director. During the term he was elected to the presidency of the Montreal Social Workers Club. 
He later became supervisor of the St. Vincent de Paul Society of the Catholic Charities in Buffalo and was appointed chairman of the Erie County Division of the Council of Social Agencies. 
His work for Catholic youth through scouting activities was recognized in 1949 by Pope Pius XII who conferred on him the Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice Medal. Mr. Cook is also Executive Secre­tary of the Catholic Committee on Scouting and editor of its publication "Chaplains' Bulletin." 
After undergraduate work in As­sumption College, Ontario, he earned a Master of Arts degree in Education at the University and a certificate in Boy Guidance. 
of Studcbaker—although be %voii]d never tell ne-:— and still exudes the old' cliann. Bill aad 30 other South Bend aad ND executives came over on a chartered bus to cheer,-cheer for old Bob 'n' Herb. 
The three acts we mentioned: 1) cocktail hoar at the K of' C; 2)* a packed house for dinner at the Loveland Community Center; 3) open house at the Elks' Club. 
Father Hcsbor^, Frank Leakr> Jiai AimsUiji^, Charlie Callahan, Lt.-Gov. Sherwood Disoa, and DUOQ'S mayor (Northwestern!) all joined the chorus of praise for Dixon's duo. Not forgotten were the wives and mothers and children who made them what they are. Even Bob and Mary's new daughter voted "yea." 
The crowd came from Detroit, Louisville, Chi­cago, South Bend, 2lficfaigan City, Rockford, Peoria, and the wires from farther places. The '34 delegation was quite proud of Marse Robert, and flattered to be there. 
OUT COLD AU but three of the 60-plus 'St men in Chi­cagoland missed a fine alumni function: the annual election session of the Chicago club. With 13 below on the thermometer, tables were set by classes, but the '34 plates were used by only A! McGuff, George Menard, and this ghost-fleshed goose writer. 
Laccy, in Korea, was there in spirit in a wire sent by Jane, the colonel's lady. 
AI is quite busy heading McGuff P^>er Co., coaching Weber high, and running for alderman. He has a pair of fine ND-Purdue stories. 
ENCORE, MENARD! 
George, the glec-dubbcr from Sergeant's Bluff, loway, is now rumored to be in front of TV cameras more hours per week than any other 
U. S. TVeteran—save one, a Hollywoodenindian. Menard's most recent headline-grahber was a TV transfusion on his WBKB morning show as a Red Cross blfx>d donor promotion. To be sure the donor showed up, he was the donor! Docs, nurses, white gowns, the works—and George ran the show while the blood did the same. No other whodunit can make this state­ment. Menard's menage is in Wilmette, and Martha and three little M's are there. The head M has moved from WROK to WLS to WBKB—and 
originally from soloist HWSR (Howard's West Shower Room). 
SPELL IT OUT 
Down at the football banquet, listening to Father Cavanangh q>eU out an answer to the football problem useful to every college head and sports editor in the land, we saw Kranae, CahiD, EK Abraham, and, we believe, Fred Wodner. Jim Enri^t of the Herald-American reported Walt Kennedy at the Card-Giant pro game in Chic^o. 
REVEREND PRESIDENT George D^fetrio, '35, known to many of us for his football managing, can be reached by hu classmates and ours at WA 2-1100 or GL 5-7677. George now has the Hoosier Room at the Hotel Harrison and the Civic Opera building restaurant in Chicago. He sees Jim—ooops!—the Rev. JaiMs Moscow, our class president, quite -often. 
MOOSE CALL When ND played DePauI at the Chicago Stadium for the final showing of a Krausc­coached team there, the class sent this wire via Bob Elson: "PLEASE CONVEY TO ED KRAUSE BEST WISHES OF NOTRE DAME CLASSMATES ON THIS FINAL CHICAGO AP­PEARANCE OF HIS TEAM. WE SALUTE HIS ACHIEVEMENTS FOR NOTRE DAME AS COMPETITOR, COACH. EXECUTIVE." (Did Elson deliver, Edward W.?] 
HAGAN'S HOOK5LIDE 
Jac^ Hagaa of Youngstown, steel salesman ex­traordinary, rounded first base at the Dearborn sution, running for Portland, Seattle, and then to the home plate to sec Mrs. H. and their new 18-month-old girl-child. How John R. keeps all that hair with so many steel demanders m it is a good question. He's unchanged from Sorin, is Jack. 
March-April, 1951 
Cliarlie Bolgcr called the other night. He was down yonder from '30- to *32. Will get his Cfakago address for you. 
Two addresses you ought w*ant nou* (and both 

new): WB . E . Becjdey 
3129 Wood Valley Road N. W, 
Atlaata, Ga. 
Lous C> Brown 
Britidi-American Oil Co., Ltd. 
Tonoto I, Ontario 
BtU Bcddey is the new branch manager in 

Atlanta for Burroughs Adding Machine Co., and 
adds: **Froin a personal standpoint—we have five 
youngsters—four prospective Notre Damcrs and 
one St. Mary's." 
Keep sending, Williani-^"ou*re the lone corre­

spondent *34 has along Pcachtrce Street. 
Lou Brown is in Toronto as Assistant to Brit­ish-Americanos \icc-presidcnt of manufacturing. (Hey, Mr. Armstrong—wc got a Toronto Club, and if not why not?) 
MORE DARN RELATIVES Cousin Ray ('42) Dono\-an, University Public Information Director, comes across wth a letter from Father Ed Murray, C.S.C., no»*- studying in Ireland. Father Ed is doing foreign missionarv­work, if we dare call Ireland a foreign soil. 
His letter: Dear Ray: Miss Gist, your secretary, did a good job in getting off that material to mc. Thanks much. There have been hundreds of inquiries up and down Ireland for information about Notre Dame and the literature sent on will be just the ticket. I didn't think that there were so many Fighting Irish rooters on this side of the ocean—or so many people interested in the more important aspects of Notre Dame's accomplishments other than on the gridiron. 
University College, Dublin, is a far cry from Notr« Dame, but they have much to offer here and in the other two branches of the National University i.e.. University College, Galway and Uni\'ersity College, Cork. This spot here in Dublin has the largest enrollment of the three, being more centrally located and being in the metropolitan dty of well over half a million. 
The present enrollment at U.C. Dublin is well oi-er 3,000 and there is talk of building a new university on the outskirts of the city. The present facilities arc so inadequate. The Art School, Engineering and Graduate Dept. together with the administration are all housed in a build­ing just about the sire of the UND Library, although the School of Surgeons and that of Med­icine are in another building in another section of town. 
Quite a few Yanks, by the way, enrolled in the latter two schools. We have a colony of about fifty from the States here in all, many of them like myself, under the GI Bill of Rights. Last year the only two people enrolled in the graduate school of Celtic Studies were an American and an Icelander!! 
The lads and lassies here are exposed to eight years of Gaelic in their primary spooling (with­out which they could not enter the UCD—the Americans excepted) and when they do arrive here the nati\'e students have had their fill of the language: 
There is a great battle being waged these da>*s in the press and drawing rooms as to the prac­ticality of the Irish language. It is a sine qua non for Civil Service jobs and the latter embrace . all railroad and tran^Ktrtation workers, postal and telephone and telegraph workers and many other departments. 
I myself am interested in a bit of Irish histor>* and folklore, and am taking a grind in the Irish language—just enough of the latter to serve as an aid in understanding the history better. That will be plenty, thank you, as the Gaelic at first encounter ^ipears to be a combination of Sanskrit, Greek, Hdirew, Gregg shorthand and Chinese Laundry checks! 
Keep well, Ray, and best wishes. 
THE COMMERCIAL 
Have you sta]%varts been reading the fine yams in the ALUMNUS and the public prints about 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 

ANTHONY E. DIAZ-NICOLI, '32, is the youngest consul in Mexico. 
Besides that, he enjoys Mexican citi­zenship while acting as consul for Hon­duras in the state of Yucatan. Lazaro Cardenas, as president of Mexico, asked the Mexican Congress in 19S7 to permit Mr. Diaz-Nicoli to act in the dual status. Besides, he is an honorary citizen of New Orleans, La. 
Actually, Mr. Diaz-Nicoli is known to Notre Dame alumni as Tony Diaz, a name that he acquired iii his student days. Since then he has acquired a wife, Enna, and five children, including, of course, Tony, Jr. 
Tony has been president or chairman of just about everything that has been organized in his home town of Meiida, starting with the Rotary and finishing with the Chamber of Commerce. In be­tween there have been charitable pur­suits like raising support for a home for aged men, and genuine recognition, such as being named godfather (Tony's phrase) for the consecration of an Arch­bishop. 
He's a Knight of Columbus, Fourth Degree, member of the Merida Council Board of Directors and past Grand Knight. He coordinated efforts to im­prove trade relations between Merida and cities in the U. S. connected with it by air, like Houston, New Orleans and Fort Worth. Last Fall he rode herd on 40 businessmen from Merida who went to New Orleans for the Tnlane game. It was there he received his certificate making him an honorary citizen of New Orleans. 
With his brother Semig^o he operates a hacienda (ranch, he explains) for raising hemp, and a men's furnishings store. "Jannan shoes. Arrow shirts and Stetson hats," Tony says, "and linens from Ireland." 
ND's . building plans—and needs? This is the regular reminder to get some $$$ marked up so this dass can move up on the list. 
We could be doing a lot better, chums. You'll be proud to sec the new construction dotvn there, but prouder of Father Cavanangh's and Father Hcsbtgh's calm appraisals of their difficult task. As fast as brick, 14>eams, pipe, and sash ar­rive, the bills arrive faster—and higher on the next load. Yet they count on us. The buildings were badly needed, and started before this war mess, and have to go ahead. 

Don't wait for an extra hundred dollars to show up; send IIOWE the first extra hundred pen­nies. Down in the Armstrong-Cackley counting room, they'll get a big welcome, for they know well that the small gifts cost more, if you follow me. 
Then when you show that wife, that son, that first-time viutor around your school of moving beauty and rare tradition, you can say inside; 
"Gushing, Hurley, Fisher, Morris, O'Sbaugh­nessy and 1 helped do this." 
END OF COMMERCIAL Now, gentlemen, to your inkwells. Even your wife and small fry will read the 
ALUMNUS if Daddy has a word for it. Ship to 6575 N. Glenwood, Chicago 3. Pninid! 
Hnghse Devore, the man with the unwanted nickname got a new three-year contract from NYU. It extends to February, 1954. 
The unwanted and entirely inappropriate mon­icker comes from the sports writers' habits of referring to Hughie of Orange as the Violet Coach. Embarrassing. 
Latest statistics on Hugh: three sons, . three daughters, address 3 Yale Terrace, West Or­ange, N. J. 
BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. John J. Mclaughlin, Patricia Luise, Fd>ruary 9, in Providence, Rhode Island. 
1935 
NEW CLASS OFFICERS 

PresidentrWiOiaB F. Ryan, 1713 McKinley Ave., Sooth Bend, Indiana. 
Vice-President (Mid-West): John F. Oark, 335 So. Lombard Ave., Oak Park, Illinois. 
Vice-President (East): William A. Kennedy, 16 Patten Ave., Rockville Centre, New York. 
Vice-President (South): Jeny Foley, 1530 East­morelaad, Memphis, Tennessee. 
Vice-President (West): Dr. Vittorio Arcadi, Pattoo State Ho^ita], Patton, California. 
Secretary: FnoUyn C. Hodiraiter, 1327 Pentwood Road, Balthnore 12, Md. 
Treasurer: Rdrick J. Lynd^ jr., 1411 East La-Salle, Sooth Bend, Indiana. 
Al Lawtoa is general agent for the Aetna Life Insurance company in New Haven and Fairfield Counties, Connecticut. 
MARRIAGES Irene Margaret Wawrzynowski and Edward J. KHmorry, January 27 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 
BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. Jordan T. Raigrove, Michael, February 20 in South Hempstead, New York. Mr. and Mrs. Rab.ert F. Simmoas, Robert, Jr., November 20th, 1950, in Rochester, New York. 
1936 
Stiicklcr is editor of the Flagship News, house organ for the American Airlines of New York City. He sends his best to Charlie Calla­han, Jim Armstrong, Art Haley, Herb Jones and the rest, in a letter received by Bill Dooley. 
WilEam E. Fiannery has become a member of 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
15-Year Reunion JuneS, 9,10 
the firm DcWitt, Van Aken and Nast in New York City. 

Appointment of Claude Mullcagu; to the posi­tion of sales engineer in the western division sales department of Caterpillar Tractor Co., San LeandrOf Calif., was announced by the western sales manager of that company. His territory will include British Columbia and Alaska. 
BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. Hugh E. Wall. Jr., Nora, No­vember 29, 1950, in Dayton, Ohio. 
1938 

The mayoralty race this year in South Bend is going to be a contest between two alumni, 27 years apart in class years. 
Lieutenant Col. John A. Scott has filed on the Republican ticket to oppose incumbent Gccrge A. Schock^ '11. Jack wore his working clothes to the clerk's office to file his declaration, as he stiH is in the Marine Corps. He'll have bis six years of active duty in before the campaign, however. 
Night before the Chicago Daily News relays the '38 class secretary was present in the Oliver for a dinner in honor of one of the cousins from the *39 class, J. Gregory Rice. Greg was an official at the Relays and sending him off were University Track Coach Alex WIson, Ray Roy, the '42 track captain. Monogram President Bill Shechan and Old Reliable (Chuck Sweeney). 
1939 
NEW CLASS OFFICERS 

President: Hugh Bunu, Pliy.Ed., Athletic Dcpt., University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, In­diana. 
Vice-President (Mid-West): Edw-ard Disser, 2501 So. Webster St., Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
Vice-President (East): Greg Rice, B.C.S., 11 Sta­tion Plaze, Great Neck, New York. 
Vice-President (South): Re»-. Fred D-gby, A.B., Assodated Catholic Charity, 211 Camp St., New Orleans 12, La. 
Vice-President (West): Carl Rausch, B.S.C., 4204 Lincoln Ave., Culver City, Calif. 
Secretary: Vince DeCoursey, A.B., 1917 Elizabeth Kansas City, 2, Kansas. 
Treasurer: Richard Anton, Ph.B..Com., 8241 So. Peoria St., Chicago, Illinois. 
1940 
NEW CLASS OFFICERS 

President: Phil Sandmaier, B.S.C., 1128 Terminal Tower Bldg., Cleveland 13, Ohio. 
Vice-President (Mid-West): James V. Donoghue, B.S.C., A. G. Becker & Co., 120 So. LaSallc St., Chicago 3, III. 
Vice-President (East): Jack Pindar, A.B., 82 Union Ave., Maplewood, New Jersey. 
Vice-President (South): Paul M. Morrison, Ph.B., Com., 25 West Princeton Circle, Lynchburg, Va. 
Vice-President (West): Jim Metiler, B.S.C., 6615 Cherry St., Kaiuas City, Mo. 
Secretary-Treasurer: Richard Burke, B.S.C., 146 Paxton Drive, South Bend, Indiana. 
MARRIAGES 

Miss Pauline Jane Gobin and Alexis Coquillard, jr., March 31, Rocky Ford, Colorado. 
THOMAS MORRISON 

"Outstanding Young Man of the Year" in Lynchburg, Virginia is the award voted Tom, the third of three Morrison brothers who are Alumni. 
Tom, of the '42 class received the re­cognition principally for his lead3rship in Lynchburg's "Get Out the Vote" drive, that resulted in the largest re­corded number of votes in that city's history. Ha made radio addresses, headed panel talks, and was chairman of the Junior Chamber of Commerce drive to make Lynchburg citizens more aware of their obligations in govern­ment at all levels. 
A salesman of retail office equipment for the firm of John M. Morrison & Sons in Lynchburg, Tom is also direc­tor of the sales training course at Phillips Business College. 
Meantime he keeps busy with mem­berships in Lynchburg's Community Council Speakers' Bureau, Piedmont Area Boy Scouts' Organization, Com­munity Chest Speakers' Bureau, the Finance Committee of the Conference of Christians and Jews, and the Steering Committee for Ljmchburg's Multiple Drives Committee. 
Tom is president of the Lynchbuig Junior Chamber of Commerce, and a director and vice-president of the Vir­ginia Junior Chamber of Commerce. He is a member of the Knights of Colum­bus and Holy Name Society and is mar­ried to the former Kathryn Herley. 
One brother, Tom, is a '38 almnnu? and Paul, '40 is president of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Virginia. 
BIRTHS 

To Mr. and Mrs. Paul M. Morrison, a daugh­ter, Mary Jane—8 lbs. 15 oz.—in Lynchburg, Va. 
10-Year Reunion JuneS, 9,10 
1941 
Jsaacs E. Annstrong Pittsburgh 30, Pa. 
Alumoi Sccrctuy February 16 
Dear Jim: 
Enclosed is my first column cfTort in much too 
long a time. If I were to go into all the rea­
sons, the accotmt would be boring. 
However, regarding the class elections. I am in 
the dark as to the set-up. Perhaps because my 
address has changed three times in the past 12 
months I have missed a few letters—and one may 
be the culprit that eiqilained this election idea. 
Could you enlightea me on the procedure? 
My guess is that the 1941 group could hold 
its election during the reunion. A formal mret­
ing with Charlie Dillon presiding wouM turn 
the trick. 
At any rate, if you could fill me in it would 
help. I shall contact Charlie and find out whether 
or not he plans to get to the reunion. 
My address now is: 123 Glenrock Drive, Ruth­
fred Acres, Bridgeville, Pa. ^ 
Best regards, John httenon 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. George W. Feirick, Sharon 

Louise, January 20, Buffalo, New York. 
1942 
Ridiard J. Kern's service address is Capt. Kern, Infantry, Building 853, Apt. 4, Ft. Riley, Kansas. 
1943 
John Brcslin is assistant industrial relations di­

rector for Continental Oil Company at Ponca 
City, Oklahoma. 
Dnuld J. Miner announces his partnership with Robert Tanrcr, '49, for the general practice of law in Burlingame, California. 
Capt. Jack Fionigao, USMCR. and his »vife stopped by the Alumni OfBce on their way to Nen-port where Jack will study the new uniGed service code. Jack has been in service since last .August, and will be in Newport for 8 weeks. 
1944 
Mrs. Charla Merrill tells us her husband is still busy in the Navy and expects to be until retirement time. He has been on duty in Wash­ington, D. C , for two years. 
Two service addresses have been received from Lt. (j.g.) Dominic F. Bcet:o and Jack P. Lawler, Boetto's on the USS Arcquipa (AF-31) c/o F.P.O., San Francisco, Calif. 
First Lt. Jack Lawler's address is Staff Judge Advocate Section, FMP. APO 757, c/o PJI., 
N. Y., N. Y. Leo J. Bndi^llalli announces the formation of a partnership for the practice of law with Eugene Greener, jr., and James R. Younger under 
the 6nn name Buchignani, Greener and Younger in Memphis, Tennessee. 
MARRIAGES 

Miss Barbara Jane Fenstermaker to Robert P. Kiley, jr.,. Nov. 18 in Marion, Indiana. Miss Whry LaVeme Herman to J. Francb Carver, Nov. 25, in Carnegie, Pa. Miss Janet Marda Lallky to Wabar F. DoD, January 27 in Chicago, IB. Mis Barbara Ann O'Neil to Dr. Robst E. Fnmcb, Feb. 3, in Arlington, Massachusetts. 
BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. WiIEan H. Gcate, Jr., Wniiam H., HI, Jan. 14, Cincinnati, Ohio. Lt. and Mn. C3bules F. MerriB, Jr., Thomas Howard, Jan. 13, Hyattsville, Md. Mr. and Mn. Jota K. TliaBB, Linda Marie, Aurora, III. 
1945 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore S. Weber, jr., Michael Charles, in Bridgeport, Conn. 
5-Year Reunion 
JuneS, 9,10 
1946 
From Rev. A. J. Sle. Marie, C.S.C.: 
"I realize that the way I have been moving around the country your office has had a difficult time keeping up with me. At present, however, I am stationed here at Box-sville and expect to be here rather permanently so would appreciate having the Notre Dame ALUMNUS sent to this address." (Bo^-sville, Macon, Clinton P. O., Michigan). 
\
From tlic father of Robert E. Murphy: "I desire to let you know that our son, Robert 
E. Murphy, M.D., a few weeks ago volunteered, and was commissioned a First Lt. Medical Corps, USAR and reports for active duty to the Brooke General Hospital, Fort Sam Houston, San .An­tonio, Texas on Jan. 2 . . . '' 
Joseph Kcsting is currently stationed at Camp Breckenridge, Ky. 
Associated Press release: ^^Thomas E. Ward has resigned as a reporter for the Associated Press to become a public rela­tions officer for the United States Steel Corp. "Ward lived in Zahm Hall during his freshman year prior to entrance into militar\- ser\*icp. He was graduated from Northwestern Univcrsitv in 1949. ".\mong the stories he covered for the AP were the Sigmund Engel trial, the Tommy Laux '^Hangmen's Noose Club" murder and the Kc­lauver crime quiz. He is co-author of the book. **G.I. Sports in Europe.*"' **He is the son of ArcJi Ward, *23. sports editor of the Chicago 'Tribune.' " 
Joseph L. Carroll, Jr. has been recalled to duty with the Army. 
Joseph Breslaw received an advanced degree from George Washington University in Wash­ington, D. C. 
Class Sccrctar>' Jack Tcnge has left his Clayton, Missouri home for happier hunting in Texas. 

Jack is presently promotion manager of Station KXYZ, in Houston, a Glenn McCarthy enterprise. Jack left a position wiih D'Arcy .Advertising Co. in St. Louis for the Houston post and had been advertising manager for J.J. Tenge Co. in St. Louis. 
He's in Army Reser\'c, is a former teacher at St. Louis University and publicity director for Rfickhurst College, Kansas City. 
1947 

Bob Terry, M.D., has been serving a residenc>' in pediatrics in St. Louis until Dec. 10 when he went to San Diego to serx'e ivith the Na\->-- He is married and has two children. 
Release from American Institute for Foreign Trade: 
**Charles J. Cooper, of Des Moines, Iowa, has enrolled as a member of the Fcbruar\' 1952 class of the American Institute for Foreign Trade at Thundcrbird Field, Phoenix, Arizona. 
''Spcfualtzing in South America, Cooper is tak­ing the school's intensive training course in preparation for a career in American business or government abroad. 
"The course of study at the Institute concen­trates techniques of international business ad­ministration, foreign language and characi eristics of foreign countries." 
News release from Bloomington, Illinois: "John C. Thomas has joined the creative staff 
of Kane Advertising of Bloomington, Illinois. He is slated to play an important • part in the pro­duction of ideas, copy ancl campaign planning^ for the Kane agenc)', and will also edit the agcnc>- house organ, "Kanews." Mr. Thomas has been National Advertising Manager of one of Indiana's most aggressive newspapers since his graduation from the University* of Notre Dame.'* 
Dr. Stanley C. Pisarski has opened his office for the practice of dentistry* in Indianapolis, In­diana, where he resides with his wife and two children. 
Harold A. Vonacfaen, Jr., has been named sales and merchandising manager for the new Duncan Hines ice cream division of the F. H. Soldwedcl Co., Pekin, III., dair>*. Vonachen will also be in charge of other Del product promotions in the Peoria area. He makes his Iiomc in East Peoria, III. 
News release from the Dow Chemical Co.: 
**£dward A. Sampierre has been assigned to the technical ser\'icc and development department of the Dow Chemical Co. for liaison work between the company and the pharmaceutical industry* officials of the company have announced.'* 
Francis M. Casey is studying at Old Victoria, England. His address is: No. 22 Markham Sq., Chebea S. W. B., London, England. 
MARRIAGES 
Miss Ruthmaric Derivaux to Paul V. Ames> March 24 in West Orange, New Jcrse>'. Miss Mar>* Jane Maguire to Joseph M. B>Tnc, III, Nov. 25 in New York. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Milford, Robert Lindlcy, March 5, in Marion, Indiana. Dr. and Mrs. James B. McCortnick, Bruce David, Nov. 28. 1950 in Chicago, 111. Mr. and Mrs. Richard Dccb, Alex Richard, Nov. 19, 1950 in St. Petersburg, Fla. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Roberts, Jr., Susan Eliz­abeth, Nov. 21., 1950, in Stafford Springs, Connecticut. 
Mr. and Mrs. Hewlett T. Fagan, Frances Ann, Dec. 18, 1950, in Bath, New York. 
From John F. Maher: My present address is: Dominican Residence St. Mark's College, Calif. 
I'm now a postulant in the Dominican Order and would appreciate some' prayers and will reciprocate. 
1948 
Pvt. John K. Battel's service address is 3397th Student Squadron, Box 50, Kcesler AFB, Mis­sissippi. 

Word has been received in the Alumni Office that Charles S. Trotter of Miami, Florida, has been sworn in the Marine Corps' new Officer Candidate Class program. After April 23 Trotter will be at Parris Island, S. C , for a ten-week course and from "there he will be sent to the Marine Corps Schools at Quantico, Va., for five months officer instruction. 
From John G. Sweeney: "Once again I want to report a change of address. In September Jean, Jack, Jr., (II months) and I moved to New York City where I'm at Columbia University again, working on my Ph.D. in Economics. Please send the ALUM­NUS to 20-06 18 Street. Long Island City 5, New York." 
Prayers arc requested for John Schoutcn who is seriously ill in St. Mar>*'5 Hospital, E\*an^­ville, Indiana. 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Priscilla Butler to Jules V. Meyering, Jr., Oak Park, 111. MARRIAGES Alice Thercse Feeney to Robert EdH-ard 0*Don­nell, Feb. 3, in LaGrangc, 111. 
BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. Corwin S. Clatt, a daughter, in East Peoria, Illinois. 
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel P. Barlow, Mar>- Julia, in Duanesburg, New Jersey. 
Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. Gatens, Mar>> Suzanne, Dec. 1, in Iowa City, Iowa. 
From Bob Laner: "Just getting under way again (as head of Oneida, N. Y.'s Youth Bureau) after getting my Master's at Syracuse University. "The work here in this city's Youth Bureau is the kind that Notre Dame training iM^uips one for admirably." From Dave Skory, Bicrut, Lebanon: "You might be interested to know what I'm doing. For the past year and a half I've been engaged by the Trans-Arabian Pipe Line Co. in a legal capacity, handling local litigation. *'The cases have been mostly those concerning acquisition of land along the right of way of the pipeline through Lebanon, Syria and Jordan. But ivith the completion of the pipeline I was trans­ferred to the Government Relations Department as administrative assisUnt to the head of Gov­ernment Relations. 
"In this caparity I use not only my knowledge of the Arabic language but my legal background. 
"I've not only progressed with the company but I've become a married man. My \vife, Frances is a senior student at American University in Bierut. We were married last September 9 on Bahrein . Island in the Persian Gulf. 
1949 
Joe Geisel, Jr., of Kansas City, Mo., has tem­porarily left the family's grain brokerage business for a trip in the Pacific. Joe, to be exact, is in the Naxy. at the Guam Supply Depot. 
William J. Nddhart has joined the Holy Cross order and is at Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame. 
Don White is now employed by the American-Marietta Co. of Kankakee, III. 
From Jos£pli B. W^oerth, Jr.: 
"This is to notify you my new address is 3101 Fairfax Road. Cleveland Heights 18. Ohio. .. . I was married last October to Barbara Will of Cleveland ... " 
From mother of Ross Dugan, .Tr.; ** . . . Ross is in the Air Corps, stationed at Scott Field, III. He is in the Architecture Dept. of the corps and his address is Pfc Ross F. Dugan, Jr., 18374365, Hq. Sq. ATRC Box 609. Scott AFB, Illinois." 
Jama KloduDjtemper has been employed by the United Press News Service in the Springfield, Illinois, ollicc. 
Jack Falloa is now associated with the General Motors Corp. in their ChevToIet Division at Flint, Michigan. John was formerly line coach at Wayne University 'in Detroit. 
Robert Tar%'cr announces the formation of a partnership with Don Miller, '43, for the general practice of law at Burlingame, Calif. 
Service Notes; 
Lawrence D. GUIing is serving in the Army. 
Ret. James R. Beam,' W. Va., has been as­signed to the llth Airborne Div., Fort Camp­bell, Ky. 
Pfc Rober: F. Totman, Claire, 111., has been assigned to the Transportation Research and Dc­\-elopment Station, The Transportation Center, Fort Eustis, Va. 

Henry E. Hess will enter first officer class on April 23 at Parris Island, S. C . for a ten-week course in the Marine Corps' new Officer Candidate Class program. If he is successful he will go to the Marine Corps Schools at Quantico, Va., for fii-e months of officer instruction. 
From George F. Driscall Dept. Civil Engineering: 

Some news of the 1949 class members I met attending the American Road Builders' Association Convention in Milwaukee earlier this month. 
Ben Smilli, Bob Mills and ^Villiam Carter, all working for the Streets Department of City of Milwaukee. Ben's job is Junior Construction En­gineer Supervisor. Bob is a Resident Engineer and Bill is Junior Engineer of Surveys. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Dorothy Virginia Murphy to Peter J. Brown, Oak Park. MARRIAGES 
Miss Roscanna Bell to George H. McCarthy, Jr., Jan. 6, Harrisonburg, Va. Miss Shirley Louise Byron to Patrick H. M:e­nan, Dec. 20, in Casper, Wyoming. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. McFarland, Jolin Patrick, Dec* 16, 1950, in Philadelphia. Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Eckel, Barbara Ellen, in Lynn, Mass. Mr. and Mrs. James B. Kesting, Karen Ann. in Toledo. Ohio. 
1950 
Elmore Charles Smith is in the Sacred Heart Novitiate. 
From Eleanor Thompson, wife of Bill: ".. . After graduation we moved from Vet-ville to Hammond. An older grad, Howard Broderick of Whiting was just grand to us there. He has a son, Bill, class of '50, who is at school working on his Masters. "Jack Terrio's wedding was quite a get-together with Laurence down from Boston, Paul Kisgali here from Muskegon* and George Valenta from the University, where he is working on his Masters. "0\'cr Labor Day we visited Har\-cy Kramer in St. Louis. Harvey married Eleanor Garrett last April. He works at the Venice Pow-r Plant and his address is 2M3A E. Fair Ave., St. Louis 7, Mo. "We often hear of Merle McDougall who Is teaching at a Denver high school. He is married and has three children. Merle says Denver i'. hollering for engineer grads. If anyone is in­terested, the McDougalls address is 1875 W. 50th Place, Denver, Colorado. "We returned to South Bend after Bill re­ceived an offer from Bendix. He is now doin*; drafting there. One of our first callers was Jack Klempay and his wife and three children. "It*s wonderful to be a Notre Dam- grad. We meet so many grand people, all NDers, too ... " 
Wib Marshall is an architect with Diboll-Kes­srls in N'-w Orleans about -100 miles from Apala­chicola, Fla., his home. 
Vince Anthony, Fort Rccover\'. Ohio, h nnw employed by the W"stinghouse Electric Corp. in Kansas City, Missouri. 
We learn from his mother that Edward T. Callahan, .ir.. is an cngin-er with the Arabian American Oil Co., in Dhadran. Saudi, Arabia. 
Peter Koblosh is ser\-ing with the army. 
From the father of Henry F. Oderman: ".. . At the present time he is in the United States Na\->* as an enlisted man ... " Bernard Bnmetti, jr., and Leo A. Coleman have been accepted for Officer Candidate School by the United States Air Force. Vincent F. DsCrone's ser\*Ice address is Recep­tion Processing Division of the Third Armored Division, Adjutant General Section, Fort Knox, Ky. James E. Drennan is temporarily at Fort Ord. Calif. 
From Ronald J. Sanford: ".. . I have been sent here to electronic . weapons school on temporary* additional duty for a period of four months. After which I will return to my former ship, the USS Saipan CVL-4S, as a specialist in underseas mines and torpedoes . . . ** 
It's Ens. Ronald J. Sanford, USN, U. S. Naval School, Advanced Undersea Weapons, Key West, Fla. Ronald had such good luck in receiving letters from his friends when his former address was in the class notes, he wanted to try a^ain. 
P\-t. . John J. Owens has been assigned to the 452nd Field Artillery Battalion, Camp Polk, La. 
Another temporary address is Pvt. Frandi M. Jacob. US 31512539, Hq. Co. lOlStli ASU RC, Fort Devens, Mass. 
Pvt. Frank J. Spaniel has been assigned to the 7th Ordnance Battalion, Ft. Bcnning. Ga. 
March-April, 1951 
From Don Hcllinghausen: "Drafted last November and am now at Fort Sill, Oklahoma. Ran into Dick Fitzgibbons in Wichita Falls, Tex. — hc*5 In the Air Force — met Jim Barbierry '49 at Fort Sill one First Friday AFTERNOON. I write to Dick McGoIdrkk who is on Mediterranean sea duty, and about to announce hi:, engagement to some New England 
From Don Hellingbausen: •* . . . 1 was drafted last November into the Army and have been w*ondcring about some of the other '50 boys. Ran into Dick Fitzg'bbcms in Wichita Falls, Texas (he's in the Air Force); he was at Sheppard Field, but has since been moved. Met J im Borbiery ('49) at Ft. Sill after Mass one First Friday afternoon. I write to Dick McGold­rick who is on Mediterranean Sea duty and he is to announce his engagement in the Spring to some lucky New England Girl. Also ran Into a fellow who came in the Array with Jack Donnelly and he says Jack is at Camp Hood, Texas, with-the Signal Corps.'* gal." SYMPATHIES 
To William V. Denning on the death of his brother, Leo, who died of a heart attack. To the family of Jahn J. Smith, Flushing, New York. ENGAGEMENTS 
Miss Flora Friday to Vincent F. DcCrone. Miss Joan Getzinger to Jamzs E. McMcel, Jr. Miss Joa.i Elizabeth Waechtcr to William J. 
Wightkln. 
Miss Mary Patricia Johnson to Ge-rge L. Olvany. MARRIAGES 
Miss Marsha Ann Grier to Lawrence E. Coutre, Jan. G in Chicago. 
Summer School in Mexico 
\ Unle bit of "Old Mexico'' wfll be tossed in wilh the regular cnrricaltnn' at a special sninmer session to be con­ducted in Mexico City by. the Univeisity. 
The "Notre Dame Soicmer Session in Mexico," held from June 19 to August 24, is designed as a contribu.ion to­%vard better inter-American under­standing and as an opportunity for students to study the Spanish language, Spanish and Spanish-American litera­ture, and Spanish-American civilization and culture in the atmoiphere of a for­eign language. 
Credit for undergraduate work com­pleted during the special summer ses­sion will be granted - by Mexico City College. The session is being condusted in cooperation with the latter institu­tion. 
A member of the Notre Dame Depart­ment of Modem Lang;uages will serve as Director of the Mexican summer ses­sion. Applications and queries should be addressed to Professor Walter II. Lang­ford, Head of the Department of Mod­em Languages at Notre Dame. 
CLASS SECRETARIES 
1890-1899 
1900 •1904 ROBERT E. PROCTOR, Suite 201 Monger Bldg., Elkhart, Ind. 1905-•1909 1910 
1911 FRED L. STEERS, 105 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3, Illinois 
1913 
.PAUL R. BYR.XE, University Library, Notre Dame, Indiana 

J914 1915 J.^MEs E. SANFORD, 509 Cherry St., Winnetka, Illinois 
1916 GROVER F. MILLER, 612 Wisconsin Ave., Racine, Wisconsin 1917 EDWARD J. MCOSKER, 2205 Briar­
wood Rd., Cleveland Hgts. 18, O. 1918 GEORGE E . HARBERT, 108 North Main St., Sycamore, Illinois 
1919 THEODORE C . RADEMAKER, Peru Foundry Company, Peru, Indiana 1920 RALPH W. BERGMAN, 1609 N. Jef­
ferson Ave., St. Loius, Mo. 

1921 DAN W. DUFFY, 1101 NBC Build­ing, Cleveland 14, Ohio 1922 GERALD A. ASHE , 39 Cambridge 
St., Rochester 7, New York 

1923 PAUL H . CASTNER, 1305 W. Arling­ton Ave., St. Paul, Minnesota 1924 REV. THOMAS A. KELLEY, CS.C., Cavanaugh Hall, Notre Dame, 
Ind. 1925 JOHN P. HURLEY, 1218 City Park .^ve., Toledo, Ohio 1926 JOHN J. RYAN, 2434 Greenleaf Ave., Chicago, Illinois 1927 FRANK MORAN, 633 E. Monroe St, South Bend 6, Ind. 1928 LEO R. MCINTYRE, 3004 Turner St., Allentown, Pa. 
1929 DONALD J. PLUNKETT, Biology De­partment, Notre Dame, Indiana 1930 DEVEKE PLUNKETT, Soci^ Science 
Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 

1931 WALTER F. PHILLIPS, 4 Pickwick Lane, Newton Sq., Philadelphia 1932 JAMES K. COLUNS, 17 Triangle 
Ave., Dayton 9, Ohio 1933 JOSEPH D . A. MCCABE, Rosary College, River Forest, Illinois 
1934 EDWAKD F. MANSFIELD, 6575 N. Glenwood, Apt. 1, Chicago, 111. 1935 FRANKLYN C . HOCHREITEK, 1327 
Pentwood Rd., Baltimore 12, Md. 1936 JOSEPH F. MANSFIELD, 423 S. Main St., Crown Point, Indiana 1937 FRANK J. REILLY, 1651 Metropoli­tan Ave., Apt. 7F, New York 62, 
N. Y. 1938 CHARLES M. CALLAHAN, Sports Publicity Dept., Notre Dame, Ind. 1939 VINCENT DECOURSEY, 1917 Eliza­beth, Kansas City 2, Kansas 1940 RICHARD BURKE, 146 Paxton Dr., South Bend, Ind. 1941 JOHN W. PATTERSON, JR., 5530 Darlington Rd., Pittsburgh; Pa. 1942 WILLIAM E. SCANLAN, 400 K.'lllth St., Chicago 28^ Illinois 1943 JOHN L. WIGGINS, 6442 Latta St., Dallas, Texas 1944 WILLIAM F. TALBOT, 300 Main St., White Plains, New York 1945 AL LESMEZ, 61-56 82nd St., Elm­hurst, New York 1946 JOHN TENGE, JR., 912 Lovett Wvd., Houston, Texas 1948 HERMANN A.-Zrrr, Dayton Product Co., Warren at Apple, Dayton, O. 
1949 JOHN P. WALKER, 135 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3, Illinois 
yr. c;d.vard J. 'irace/ Jr. 1227 Old Boaloburg Rd.. St.t^te College. Pa. 
Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents 
AlUZOSA—l'liacnlx—Glenn J. McDonougli, '32. inn7 W. Caninbdl. rucsa,i—7m>cii -M. Geddes, '37, 2814 E. Linden. 
.•\RKANS.\S—For» 5m''(/i—Raymond A. Marre, « ­37, 229 ^^erchanB National Bank Bldg. 
CVLIFORNI-A-LoJ .4ns«/«—Benjamin F. Alexan­der. '34, 5800 Ij?mp St., North Hollwood, Calif. BakeTsficld—{la process)—Byron J. Coleman, '40, secretarj-treasurer, Bakersficld Sawngs & Loan Association, 1612 20th St. 
.Vorf/ifrn—George E. Tliomas, '37, 2701 Duranl Ave, Berkeley. San i).Veo—Emmett A. McCabc. '29, 4258 Summit Dr., LaMesa. COLORADO—DcnL«r—TIiomas G. Currigan, '41, 4519 W. Calhoun Blvd., North Hollywood. 107 Farmington .Ave., Watcrbury. 
CONNECTICUT—Conn^r/icut I'oHey—Matthew C. Meskill, '29, 101 Greenwood St., New Britain. Kttugaluck Valley—V). Frank Murnane, '32, 107 Farmington Ave,, Waterburj-. 
Sou!liuieslcrn—Joseph McNamara, '29, Pmc Tree Road, P.O. Box 202, Stepney. DEL.AWARE—.Arthur A. Baum, '36, 1517 North Franklin St., Wilmington. DISTRICT Or COLUMBIA—lloj/iinff'on-PauI C. Tully, '39, 4135 So. 36th St., Arlington G, Va. FLORIDA—Crcolcr jl/iomi—Faris N. Cowart, '34, 1803 S.W. 8th St.. Miami. Fori Lauderdale—John C. Sullivan, '31, IGOO 
S. E. 11th St. Sonh I'lor'tda—John F. Lanahan, '•t3, P.O. Box 1697, Jacksonville. 
GEORGIA—William 11. Schroder, Jr., '35, 162 Rumson Rd., Atlanta. ID.MIO-Paul J. Kohout, '25, 1722 Washington St., Boise. ILLINOIS—Ccn/ra/ ///•'noiJ—John Lynaugh, '3D, 318 State House, Springfield. C/nVaso-Alfred C. Stephan, Jr.. '31, 548 Maple St., Winnetka, 111. Eastern Illinois—John Meyer, '42, 1314 r .:nk-Itn, Danville. Fox Valley—GcOTSC R. Sclimidt, '29, 620 Sum­mit, Elgin. yoIiV/-/C<in;;nA«—Arthur Smith, Jr., '48, R.D. No. 2. 
/"forio-James Kelly, '43, 712 Butler St. Rock River Valley-Paa\ J. Fry, '27, 101 First St. DLxon. 
INDIANA—Co/iim«/ Bu/rir/—James J. Glenn, '35, 1337 119th St., Whiung. Eastern Indiana—^William S. MacDonald, '27, Indiana Bell Telephone Co., Muncie. Fori Il'njn.:—Edward J. Disser, '39, 2501 So. Webster St. /nrfi"iniopo/iJ—Harvey Foster, '39, 327 Federal Bldg. Michigan Ci/J'—Walter A. Timm, '50, 201 Lake Ave. it. Joseph Valley—^John G. Farabaugh, '37, 1705 McICinley Ave., South Bend. Tri-Slate (Ky., Ind. and 111.)—Robert Lamey, '28, 517 Lewis Ave., Evansxille, Ind. Wabash Valley—W. W. Runge, '39, 408 W. 
Market St., Crawfordsville. 
IOWA—flirl Moines—Joxph E. Casey, '41, 832 Des Moines Bldg. Dubuque—Robert H. Kenline, '35, 418 Bank & Insurance Bldg. Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, E. Moline)—Jerome C. Arnold, "24, 1019 Daven­
port Bank Bldg., Davenport, loua. Sioux-Land—Edward Simonich, '-'9, 1605 Main St., Sioux City. 
KANS.AS—£aj/crn—Judge Joseph J. Dawes, '26, 420 Arch St., Leavenworth. KENTUCKY-Roger J. Huter, '40, Huter-Quest & Co., 833 W. Main St. LOUISlANx\—.V«a; OWcani—Thomas F. McMahon. '29, 624 Gravier Su 
Xorthern Louisiana—^Jatnes R. Nowery, '29, P.O. Box 1545, Shreveport 94. .\LARYLAND—Bn/liraore-Edward F. Spori, '34, Mgr. United Fruit Co., Pier One, Pratt St. 
XLASSACHUSETTS—Cor/on—Jack Nye DufTey, '35, Room 1024. 40 Broad St. Pioneer Valley—^John F. Shea, '06, 95 Lexing­ton .Ave., Holyoke, Mass. 
.MICHIGAN—C<:rnVn Count)'—William H. Downey, '23, 60 N. St. Joseph Ave., Niles. Blue Water District—William L. Wilson, '42, 
P.O.
 Box 35 , Port Huron. Central—Hr. Edgar J. Hermes, '21, 604 Willow Lansing. flrariorn—Jack Courtney, '25, 401 S. Highland. Detroit—LouU P. .Malone, '15, 3121 W. Mc-Nidiols Rd. Orand Rapids and Western Michigan—Edward 

R.
 Dunn, •36, 1662 Wealthy St., S.E., Grand Rapids. //."aaial/m/ond—Micliael D. O'Hara, '33, Spies Bldg., Menominee. Iron Ranee—Rohert T. O'Calkighan, '45, 635 XrcLeon Ave., Ironwood. Jlonroc—Thomas E. Griffin, '33, 205 E. Third Street. Saginaw Valley—C3T\ W . Doozan, '38, 723 S. Fayette Street, Sagiimw. 


.MINNESOTA—Tarfn Ci(i«—Michael Keegan, '41, 6221 Bryant Ave., S., Minneapolis 19. Du/u//i-5u/icn"or—Wm. E. Cotter, Jr., '41, 1929 
E. Superior St., Duluth. 
.MISSOURI—ifanlai Ci"/)>—(Mo. and Kans.)—Ed­ward J. Reardon, '37, 600 Fidelity Bldg., Kans. City, Mo. St. Louis—Vincent J. Fchlig, '34, 7011 Lindell, St. Louis. 
.MO.VTAN.A—Bernard Grainey, '43, 801 12th Ave., Helena. NEBRASKA—Frank McGrath, '24, Chief, Boys Guides, Bo\3 Town. Neb. 
NEW JERSEY—Joseph A. Abbott, '30, 275 Park Ave., Patcrson. Central—Michael J. Balog, '34, 316 Watson Ave., Perth Ainboy. South y<-«o^-VaIentine B. Dealc, '39, RCA Victor Div. 15-3, Camden, N. J. 
.NEW YORK—Cu#a/o—Maurice F. Quinn, '37, 1919 Kensington .Ave., BufTalo 21. Capital District^Andie\t M. Pinckney, '41, 14 Circle Lane, Albany. Central—John H. Terry, '45, 158 Robineau Rd., SvTacuse 4. Mid-Hudson Valley—Francis J. Sanfilippo, '47, 51 Violet Plnce. Rhinehrck. N. Y. Mohd:t'k Valley—Edward J. Sweeney, '30, 133 .Addington PI., Utica. Sew York City—James G. McGoldrick, '39, 325 E. 4Ist St., N. Y. 17. iVor/ftrrn^-Joseph R. Brandy, '21, St. LawTence Broadcasting Coro.. Ogdcnsburg. N. Y. Rochester—Arnold B. Slorrison, '35, 531 Beacit .Ave.. Rocliester 12. Schenectady—^William G. Leonard, Jr., *49, 1W6 Baker Ave. 
Southern Tier—Edwin Bonham, *09, 329 Hamil­
ton St., Painted Post, N. Y. Triple Cilies—Dr. J. Worden Kane, '26, 55 Riverside Dr., Binghamton. 
OHIO—.4tron—William Ahern, Jr., '39, 3120 Me­diiu Road. Conton-William H. Beldcn, '36, 305 22nd St., -N'.W. Cinrfnnat;-Robert C. Burke, '37, 3402 Cornell PUce. Cleveland—John J. Elder, '30, 2545 W. Third St., Cleveland 13. Co/umiuj—John J. Geddes, '32, 215 N. Eureka. Dayton—^Andrew A. Aman, Jr., '30, 618 Ridge-dale Rd., Dayton 6 Hamilton—Judge Harry F. Walsh, '31, Muni­cipal Cniirt. 

OAio Ko//<r>^Joseph F. Sargus, ex.'49, 355 iMj St., Bellairc, Ohio. "^SS^^l^ Sandmky-^AUred A. Schnurr, Jr.. '28, V^fy.:*'C Columbus Ave. . ^*""5Jg» 
Tiflin—Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycan»ita>»S. "W ToZcrfn—Faustin J. Solon. Jr., '38, 3701) las Rd., .Apt. 3, Toledo 13. 
Youngstown—Francis Hopkins, *41, 3646^ Strat-^ more Ave. --'.; 7*' "^ 
OKLAHOMA—OUoAoma Cily—Haskell .Askew, '31, 2420-.A No. Robinson. riJjo—Loyd F. Worley, '39, 2333 So. Evanston. 
OREGON—Oscar Quoidback, '48, 325 N.W. 18th Ave., Portland. 
PENNSYLVANIA—Eu/frn-Leo R. Mdntyre, '28. 3004 Turner St., AUcntown. £rie—Joseph C. Barber, '36, 705 Ariel Bldg. Harrisburg—Wm. J. Moore, '26, 3760 Nfontour Street. Monongahela Valley—Charles R. Montgomery, '.•!5. 102 Prirr St.. Brlle Vernon. Philadelphia—Joseph F. Cattic, '41, 6707 Crit­tenden St., Phiktdelphia 19. K(/jtiirg/i—John P. Montevcrde, '38, 320 Fourth Ave. 5cran(on—Michael B. Comerford, '43, 1203 Riclimont St. Wilkes-Darre—Edn-ard J. Rowan, '35, 34 West .North St. ira;."iimj/)or(—William R. Downs, 'OS, 1013 
Thompson St., Jersey Shore. Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND and S. E. iL\SSACHUSETTS— Russell L. Hunt, '38, 412 Providence St., Woon­<ockct. R. I. 
TENNESSEE—C/ialMnooja—Thomas B. Owen, '35, 4115 Mayfair Ave. .»l<m/)/i£j—Eugene J. Podesta, '48, 263 Stone­wall Place. 
TEXAS-J)a;/<«—James L. Walsh, Jr., '30, 5323 Monticello. //outfon—Raymond B. Keating, Jr., '35, 1438 Commerre Bide. San ^In/on-o-Edward G. Conroy, '30, 209 
' Calumet PI., San Antonio 9. UTAH—Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Kearns Bldg.. Salt Lake City. VIRGINIA—Charles M. Morrison, '38, Pump House Road, Ridimond. WASHINGTON—Jfoiane—Vincent P. Slatt, '43, E. 515 Ermina, Spokane 13. . ir«/«rii—W. Jerome Kane, '38, 10504 Valmay Ave., Seattle 77. 
WEST. VIRGINIA—Albert H. Kessing, '40, 925 
Alontrose Dr., S. Charleston . 3. 
WISCO.NSIN—Fox River K<i«o^Robert Bernard, '36, 953 Higgins Ave., Neenah, Wis. Creen Boj^-Thomas F. Heardon, '27, 135 .Marsh St., West DePere, Wis. iaCrojK—August M. Grams, '28, 217 S. Front Street. .l/i7aaul«—F16yd J. Sulli\-an, '40, 4708 W. North Ave., Milwaukee 8. South Central—Francis D. Hamilton, *30, First 
National Bank Bldg., Dodgeville. 
FOREIGN CLUBS Bengali India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C, '24, (key man) Dacca, East Bengal. Cuba—Christopher C. Fitzgerald, '94, (key man) La Metropolitana (711), Habana. Woaml—Thomas W. Flynn, Jr., '35, 5317 Opihi St., Honolulu, T. H. Manila—^Anthony F. Gonzales, '25. (key man) The Insular Life Assurance Co., Ltd., Insular Life Bldg. MEXICO—Mexico Cil^-Teimo DeLandero, '37, Eugcnio Sue 220, Mexico City, fanoma-William J. Sheridan, '33, Box 605, Ancon., Caiml Zone. Puerto RICO—Paul F. McManus, '34, (key man) 
n. *• \f. Products Co.. Bnx 2fin5. .San .Tuan. 
SOUTH AMERIG\—/"cru-Andres Malatcsta, '23, Tacna, Peru, S.A. 
. PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS 






