The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
/9^ 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
vj. In This Issue 
CLUBS '' TO MEET JANUARY 25 
HOWARD HALL 
/ol. 15 January. 1937 No. 4 
think of— 


O^BRIEN 
—when you think of 


PAINTS 
for Industrial Production finishing O'Brien manufactures a full, up-to-the-minute line of lacquers, primers, enamels and synthetic enamels . . . and supplies nationally known manufacturers of automobiles, trucks, automotive equipment, furniture and cabinets in all parts of the country. 
for architectural maintenance and decorative painting O'Brien ofFers a finish of every type, all reinforced by the usz of THERMOLVZED TUNG OIL. a new O'Brien-patented oil vehicle that adds life, looks and dependability to any paint product. Notre Dame, The Marshall Field Estate. New York Edison and fine decorators all over the country are amons the thousands of users. A nation-wide O'Brien dealer orsanization has these finishes for you. If your paintins problems are particularly troublesome, or if you seek for better looking finishes, call on O'Brien . . . through your painter, your dealer, or write the factory direct. 
George L  O'Brien  '93  Jerome J. Crowley, Jr. '31  
Fred J. O'Brien  "94  W.B.Webste r  '31  
J. H.  Lawton  '12  T. S. Halpin  '32  
D. J. Kelly, Jr.  '26  Eugene L O'Brien  '35  
W . C. Fortier  "29  George Vescy  '36  

O'BRIEN VARNISH COMPANY 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA --- Since 1878 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, 75 The magazine is published monthly durtnf; the scholastic year by the Alumni Association Member of tfie American 
of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 
Editor Alumni Council. 
a year; the price of single copies is 23 cents. The annual alumni dues of S5.00 include 
a year's subscription to THE ALUIVINUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 
WILUAM R. DOOLEY, 76 1923, at the post office at Notre Danv. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. All Member of Nat'l. Catfiolic 
Managing Editor correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame, Ind-Alumni Federation 
Vol. 15 JANUARY, 1937 No. 4 
Communism Opposed on All N. D. Fronts 
Association's Prosram, Announced in December, Meets 
Hearty Approval of Individual Members and Club 
Officers; Meetings Planned Nationally for January 25 
The pi'oposed program to offset the influences of subversive agencies, particularly Communism, as an­nounced in the December ALUMNUS by President Arthur J. Hughes, is meeting with nation wide approval and action from alumni. 
The Local Alumni Club section of this issue reflects the response of the Clubs. 
The meetings to be held on Janu­ary 25 by the Clubs are assured the national scope President Hughes planned in his announcement. 
These meetings are to held under the auspices of the local Notre Dame alumni. But it is the plan and the hope of the Association that each meeting will find present at these meetings other local agencies and individuals who share w^ith Notre Dame men that ambition to protect our pi-inciples of morality, of govern­ment and of home which is the motive of this drive. 
War veterans who fought to pro­tect America; people of other faiths who nevertheless cherish a belief in God and in the essential place of re­ligion in our civilization; labor men who recognize that in Christianity and its support of the rights of the individual there is more hope than in the highest concept of the regimented Ked worker; the schoolmen, who must see in the doctrines of the materialistic state the end of academ­ic freedom and progress; fathers and mothers, whose sacrifices are daily proof of the sanctity of the home and the divine nature of marriage; the children for whom these sacrifices have been made, and for whom they will be nullified by the social devasta­tion of materialistic doctrines;—all these should find in these meetings a common interest and a common cause. 
For this reason, meetings should not involve handicaps which can be avoided. 
They should be centrally accessible. 
They should compress time. 
They should be without cost to the 

outside guest wherever feasible. 
They should present our position 

as President Hughes has outlined it. 
And they should, with the coopera­

tive suggestion of these affiliated in­
terests, map a local program within 
the scope of the group resources. 
When this has been done, much 

will have been done. And the founda­
tion will be strongly laid. 
For those alumni interested indivi­

dually or as leaders of groups, the 
following pamphlets are excellent in 
brief, vivid presentation of data on 
Communism: 
Just What Is Communism? by Hev. Raymond Feely, S. J.;The Tactics of Communism, by Rt. Rev. Msgr. Ful­ton sheen; and the reprint of IVIorals and Moscow under the title of Com­munism and Morals, by Father Feely. 
Exercises Memorializing 
THE LATE 

FATHER J. A. NIEUWLAND, CS.C. 
Will be held at Notre Dame 
SUNDAY, JANUARY 10, 1937 

There will be a solemn high Mass in the morning at 9 o'clock, and a program which will begin at 1:30 o'clock in the afternoon in which some of the most noted scientists of this country, Canada and Europe will participate. Papers will be presented by Dr. Hugh Scott Taylor of Prince­ton, Dr. George D. BirkhoCF of Har­vard, Mr. William StanHeld Calcott, Director of the Jackson Laboratories, £. 1 du Pont de Nemours Co., Dr. Marcus Ward Lyon, formerly assist­ant curator, the U. S. National Mu­seum, Brother Marie Victoria of the University of Montreal, and Dr. Arthur Haas, professor of Physics, University of Notre Dame and recent­ly of the University of Vienna. 
THE ALUMNI, AND PARTICU­LARLY THOSE OF THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE, ARE INVITED. 
Two pamphlets of particular mis­sionary value in the crusade, for the Clubs interested in spreading their work, are A Catechism of Commun­ism for Catholic High School Stu­dents, by a Passionist Father, and a forthcoming pamphlet by Father Feely, A Study Club Outline on Com­munism. 
All of the above pamphlets are available fom the Paulist Press, 401 
W. 59th St., New York City, at five cents each; ?3.50 the 100, and ?30.00 the 1,000. 
Father Feely has summed up, in 

what he admits is a complex but 
significant definition. Communism as 
it is understood in the enlistment of 
the strength of the Alumni Associa­
tion against its encroachments: 
"Communism is a materialistic philosophy of life which advocates the establishment of a dictatorship of the proletarist in all countries throughout the world by violent revolution or by any means which may be deemed necessary in order to ultimately arrive at and preserve a classless society, in which there shall be no private ownership, and in which all property shall be vested in the com­munity as a whole, and all labor and human activities organized for the cominon benefit by a centralized group of workers' representatives." 
As a concreate stimulus for some of the clubs in strategic positions for constructive activity, the Congressi­onal committee investigating Com­munistic propaganda reported two years ago that Communist district headquarters in this country existed in the-following cities: Boston, New York, Philadelphia, BuflTalo, Pitts­burgh, Cleveland, Detroit, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Bismarck, 
N. Dak.,' Seattle, San Francisco, New Haven, Charlotte, N. Car., Birming­ham, Denver and Butte. 
For important, concise compilation of similar concrete facts, the Cham­ber of Commerce of the United States has a pamphlet, on request, titled: Combating Subversive Activities In the United States. 
Quakers Named Roosevelt Bodyguard 
Former Student Chosen From Massachusetts Police 
Thomas J. Qualters, of Somerville, Massachusetts, pre-law student at Notre Dame from 1925 to 1928 who 
•was appointed bodyguard to Presi­dent Roosevelt to succeed the late Gus Gennerich, has among his most prized possessions a letter from the late Knute K. Eockne praising his football, scholastic work and coaching ability. 
Tom played for two years with the Notre Dame B squad. He was active in football during preparatory school days and after leaving Notre Dame became a teacher and football coach in both preparatory and high schools. He joined the Massachusetts state po­lice in 1933 and met the President while serving as bodyguard to his son, James, during the last political campaign. 
Tom's brother troopers at the state police barracks in Andover, Massa­chusetts, were "tickled to death" by news of his appointment but were sorry to have him leave their ranks. 
"I don't think the President could have picked a better man for the job," said Corporal Arthur O'Leary. 
la Tom, the President will have as a guard 185 pounds of bone and mus­cle, distributed over a five-foot, 10 inch frame. He has serious blue eyes and dark, curly hair. Single, Tom has made his home with his parents and two sisters in Somerville. He is 
He was a member of Brig. Gen, Daniel Needham's prize state police class of 1933 in Slassachusetts. In that class of 25 the then commission­er of public safety had 22 college graduates. 
"Qualters is an unusual type," said Corporal O'Leary. "He has wide in­terests, is very alert, and a good in­vestigator. Football has remained his hobby, although he likes riding and is an excellent horseman. 
"He has done considerable public speaking in campaigning for highway safety and he is just as much at ease before a women's club as when ad­dressing a group of school children." 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
For the Dante Statue: Mr. E. Byrne Hacfcett 4 10 Mr. Gabriel Wells _ 20 Mrs. Mary Young Moore .. 200 The Most Rev. James E. Cassidy, D.D .. 50 Mr. Byron V. Kanaley, '04 .. 20 Mr. James Oliver, 11 .. 25 Mr. Daniel Verrili, '29 .. 15 Mr. Harley McDevitt, '29 .. 5 
For Sciencific equipment; From Mr. C. C. Mitchell, '02 ..^1,000 
For general purposes: Hon. J. F. T. O'Cormor .. 50 Mr. John C. TuIIy, '11 .. 500 
For the Roger Ryan Memorial Scholarship: Previously acknowledged .. 1,030 From the Ryan Family 35 
From Mr. John Pick, '33, a first ediaon of Dryden's "Satires of Juvenal and Persius." 
From Mrs. C. H. Mann, a folio edition of the Douay Bible. 
From the British Govenmient in India, a splendid colJecrion of fossils and other geological specimens. 
Sig: REV. JOHN F. O'HARA, CS.C. 

Sullivans Lead on Campus 
Other Gaels Close Behind 

The Sullivans have it! According to the new student directory of Notre Dame these hardy sons of Erin have 31 names in their group, more than any other clan on the campus. 
Other Gaelic names press for the head of the list. The Kelleys with 28 and the Murphys vnth 17 are next. Other typical Irish-named numbering more than 10 are the Eyans, Bren­nans, Foleys and Doyles. 
The large number of students of Irish ancestry is particularly notice­able this year. Observe O'Connor, O'Hara, O'Laughlin, O'Brien, O'Neill, O'Shaughnessy, Mulligan , Casey, Kooney, McGuire, Gallagher, Mori­arity and Flannagan. And O'Toole. 
Famous names (with the exception of the Irish) are conspicuous by their absence in this directory. John Mc-Cormack, William Shakespeare, Wal­ter Hagen and John Braddock are the only ones listed. The longest name listed is Schiappacasse, while the shortest are of three letters; Beh is one. There is a Brew as well as a Beer listed. The directory includes a Good and a Gentle and a Meaney. 
Several of the trades and profes­sions appear: a Baker, Barber, Car­penter, Mason, Miller and Tanner. Two Judges and a Merchant are among the middle-class representa­tives, while royalty has seven Kings and two Kaisers; there is a Duke too, and a Pope for the clergy. 
If you are thinking of building a house, the directory offers Brick, Glass, Woods and a Crane. The comic sheet has its representatives in Tillie and Mack with that viper Fagan hov­ering in the background. There is also a Bride but no Groom. 
The two places of honor, the first name in the book and the last, are held by Eli Abraham, a graduate stu­dent of South Bend, and Joseph Zwers, senior commerce student from Grand Rapids, Mich. Between these two are nearly 3,000 names of var­ious kinds from 48 states, the Dis­trict of Columbia and 12 foreign countries. New York state leads the pack with 473, while Nevada and Del­aware go to the other extreme, boast­ing only one student each. 
Such conventional names as Brown, Jones and Smith have considerably dwindled in this directory. Of course, if one cared to go to the other ex­treme, he might wrestle with Czizek, Ptak, Hrachovec, Semczyszyn and Niespodziany. 



Believing the Poets 
(A Radio Address] By Professor Andrew T. Smithberger 

Wherein Are Pointed Out Some of the Essential 
Differences Between the Surface "Facts" of 

Daily Living and the Deep Probing of Poetry 
When Orlando said that neither rhyme nor reason could express how much he loved his Rosalind he gave currency to a thought that has per­sisted for some minds to our own day: that there is some sort of antip­athy between poetry and truth, or between poetry and prose, or perhaps between poetry and the ordinary facts of life. Alliteration, too, may have something to do with keeping such a phrase alive, for we have the com­panion expression, "fact and fancy." 
Somehow or other we in this fast-moving modem age have the notion that there is no time for poetry. We can't be bothered. There are too many things to do. Besides, we want "the dope"; we must have the facts. If there is one thing that distinguishes this age it is our taking pride in our infonnation, in our getting the facts. One does not need to go very far in a discussion before he hears some such interruption as, "Yes, but what are the facts?" Or, somebody will preface a statement with "Believe it or not," or else vnth "As a matter of fact." In brief, we want the facts. The word ivant, however, is double-edged: it means to desire ardently and it means to lack. Perhaps our craving for mere information, for the facts, dis­closes not only our insufficiency but also our deficiency. 
Breeding the Welsh Rabbit 

One could very easily illustrate how in our zeal for getting the facts we often get them wrong, miss them altogether, or distort them in such a way as to get just the opposite meaning from them. How often we see the word adviser misspelled! Per­haps a newspaper reporter will write of something that transpired when as a matter of fact—note how all of us are interested in getting the facts—^he only meant that it liappened, and he had no intention at all of inferring that this something became known gradually. How often we read of a replica, when only a copy or repro­duction is meant! Strictly speaking, a replica is a copy or reproduction made by the maker of the original. In our cold, jrationalizing manner we come to the conclusion that a dish of 
toasted or melted cheese should not be named Welsh Rabbit, and hence we assume the prerogative of calling it rarebit. But whether it be a rarebit, or just a common dish, the correct name for it is Welsh rabbit—a joke, to be sure, from the very beginning: a fancy name was devised for this dish, just as "Cape Cod turkey" is sometimes applied to the humble cod­fish. 
A Shirt-Sleeve Definition 

All of us make mistakes, we know, and all of us refuse to stick to facts all the time. We who pride ourselves on our information come to realize at one time or another that we can't keep up with the increase of knowl­edge. Some of you will recall that yeai-s ago you learned the capital of Russia as St. Petersburg. During the World War you had to releam it as Petrograd. Then a while later it became Leningrad, still the same city. Now I hear that the capital is Mos-. cow. And finally I am apprised of the fact that the name of the country is not even Russia any longer, but 
U. S. S. R. Indeed, brevity is the soul of some facts. 
Now, the poet is interested just as much in facts as we prosaic persons are, but he is interested in something more. Poetry is a matter of fact and reason, but it is something more. Poets wish to concern themselves chiefly with the eternal truths of life. And poetry does not spurn truth or fact; indeed, its main concern is "truth carried alive into the heart by passion." Aristotle, that master mind of the ancient world, recognized the supreme quality of poetry when he declared: "Poetry is a more philo­sophical and a higher thing than his­tory: for poetry tends to express the universal, history, the particular." 
The poet, then, is not a man of mere fancy; and poetry is by no means the antithesis of reason. The poet has a way of moving us to the largest possible number of thoughts by the use of the fewest possible words. Of, if we must have a defini­of the art, I prefer the one by the late E. A. Robinson: "Poetry is a 
language that tells us through a more or less emotional reaction something that cannot be said." For one thing, it cannot be said in any other words; and for another thing, it cannot be said at all, but we are made to feel the truth of what the poet has incor­porated in his poem or has suggested by it. And for long afterwards we feel the truth of what the poet says, because he says it is in a memorable way. Literature is, as we know, mem­orable speech; and if a practical, shirt-sleeves definition of poetry will be pardoned, we might say that poetry is the most memorable speech. Poets deal with images, that is, they are forever looking for the similari­ties between facts, things, and ideas; and therefore we do not easily for­get what they have to say. 
Escape Into Reality 

Let me illustrate; let me show how it is done. The poet assumes that you are familiar with a clock dial divided into the twelve hours, and with the concentric circles of waves made by a stone tossed into a body of still water. Hence, in telling us of the relation between time and eternity Beddoes made use of this common-knowledge: 
I have said tliat Time Is a great river running to Eternity. Metiiinks 'tis all one water, and the fragments That crumble off our ever-dwindling life. Dropping into it, first make the twelve-hour 
circle. And that spreads outward to the great round Ever, 
I am deliberately taking examples from poets whose names are unknown or almost forgotten because I do not wish to scare anybody away by the use of "big names." I am not going to quote from Shakespeare or MUtou or Wordsworth. They are well known and their fame is secure. 
A second example: You have prob­ably wondered how you might enjoy more of the beauty in life, the beau­ty that is around you every day. The poets, even the minor yioeis, if you will read and believe them, will help you to observe and remember and have gp^ater zest for the ordinary things and the everyday events of life. 
The Notre Dame Alu 

January, 1937 
Let us suppose that you are fond of bii-ds and their songs, and have per­haps en\ied the Englishman for ha^'­ing both the skylax-k and the night­ingale. A good friend of mine of a number of years ago, Charles G. Mat­thews, gave pleasure not only to him­self but to others as well in writing a sonnet entitled "Home Talent." This is the sonnet: 
In this too northern land the ni£;htin;^e Ne'er sines when spring awalies her muse the rose: And when the cloudy fleet of dawn sets sail No skiiark greets it from my garden close. But here the homely robin sings his lay; The fliclicr calls afar and beats his drum: The eager swifts are on their arrowy way: And stately flights of grackles go and come. At noon the catbird in his covert mews: The cardinal is on bis chosen bough ; The ruby-throat flits whore the lily brews: The dove's low coo is like a virgin's vow: And when the twilight falls so silently. The reverent thrush exclaims, "Abide with me ."* 
Many people object to the vievr of life as presented by poets and phi­losophers because to them this view represents an escape from reality, from life. If the truth were told, how­ever, the gi-eat poets and the great philosophers are those who escape not fi-om realitj- but into reality. They are extremely eager to face the facts, to get at the truth of the mat­ter. They are true friends of hu­manitj^ 
No Dark Room Monopoly 
Neither poets nor philosophers are like blind men in a dark cellar look­ing for a black cat that is not there. Eather, they face the facts indoors or out, by night or day. Poets of the past may have lived in garrets, for all we know, but now we like to think of them dwelling high in a tower with ideas, observations, feelings, and the conclusion from the facts. Prom this vantage point they from time to time 
. . . utter wisdom from the central deep And, listening to the inner flow of things Speak to the age out of eternity. 
Though we recognize the value of thought and beauty and idealism, it is curious that poets and philosophers are usually singled out for being im­practical. But it may be asked in reply. Have we balanced the budget? It is the easiest thing in the world to poke fun at the medieval philosophers who may or may not have wasted time arguing over how many spirits could find room on the point of a needle, but thej' at anj' rate were in­terested in spiritual matters and were trying to solve problems that could not be measured at once in space or time. Nowadays we have arguments at naval conferences over the matter of parity, trjang to decide how many battleships a country is to build. Here is a tangible, visible thing, extremely matter of fact, and yet the nations 

are unable to agree for any length of time. Have we progressed so very much? Are we so very logical, so very practical, after all? 
Long before, yes, about four cen­turies before Newton, "voyaging through strange seas of thought alone," interested the world in the law of gravitation, Dante had written of the center of the earth as 
That point, to which irom every part is 
dragged All heavy substance. 
The development of aviation is cer­tainly of our own time, yet it is well known what Tennyson nearly a hun­dred years ago prophesied about the conquest of the air; and nearly a quarter of a century before Tenny­son's Lockslejj Hall, Shelley had writ­ten of man's hope in these words: 
The tempest is his steed, he strides the air. 
Poetic Prophecies 
And above all we must remem­ber the dreams of all those wonder­ful Greeks of more than two thou­sand years ago who in their poetic flights soared on the wings of Icarus. -\s a college student wrote seven or eight years past: "Man did not learn to fly by studying air cun-ents or by learning wing tensions—^he is not a reasoning, but an imagining, a dream­ing animal. He watched the birds, and en\aed them, and dreamed of equaling them. And did! He took to the air on the vei-j' wings of Fancy." 
These are indeed exceptional pro­phecies from the poets, and as such are exceptions. In order to be fair, one should perhaps point out some of the anachronisms in the plays of Shakespeare, or note that Keats gave credit to Cortez for the discovery of the Pacific Ocean, or that Coleridge has his ancient mariner seeing a star within the nether tip of the homed moon. But all this would only go to prove that poets are human, very hu­man after all. Doubtless it is well to have an occasional discord, so that the harmony will be more prized. 
I have mentioned the old story of the philosophers debating over the number of spirits who could secure comfort in an infinitesimal space. I suppose the modem counterpart of this would be our scientists who are engrossed with the vagaries or the love life of protons and electrons. More power to them! It must be an interesting quest. Some of you may have noticed, moreover, this recent barrage of letters from people throughout the country who are arg^u­ing whether snakes swallow their young at the approach of serious dan­ger. Again, is it a fact that an os­trich buries its head in the sand in order to escape detection? Well, it makes a good story anyway. 


KANALE/ IDENT/FIES TEAM 

Byron V. Kanaley, '04, Chicago, came through promptly with a com­plete identification of the football team which w^as pictured on page 71 oi the December Axmixus. BjTon says: 
"I think the men in this picture, from left to right as you look at the picture, are Happy Lonergan, right end, AI Portin, right tackle, Pat Win­ters, right guard, John Pick, center, Nace Gillen, left guard, Jim Farra­ghei-, left tackle, Jim Doar, left end, Studie Lins, right halfback. Red Sal­mon, fullback, Ralph GljTin, left half­back, and Hal Davitt, quarterback. 
"Happy Lonergan is a prominent public utility attorney in Portland, Oregon. AI Portin is practicing law in Chicago. Pat Winters lives in Pittsburgh. I saw John Pick at the Old Timers' Reunion at South Bend. He lives in West Bend, Wisconsin, where they have been a very prom­inent family for three generations. 
"Nace Gillen is dead. Jim Parra­gher, if alive, I think lives in Youngs­town, Ohio. Jim Doar is dead. Stu­die Lins is in Tucumcari, New Mexi­co, where he is in the manufacturing business. Red Salmon occupies a highly responsible place in the Healy Engineering Organization. 
"Ralph Glynn is in the lumber busi­ness in St. Paul, Minnesota. I see AI Portin, John Pick and Lou Salmon fairly often. Studie Lins gi'eeted the football team on the way to Southern California at Tucumcari, New Mex­ico. I went to the Ohio State game with Ralph GIjTin a year ago." 
Joking apart, the last question of all seems to be. Are we going to be content with mere facts, which are the froth, or are we going to dip into the deep water, into the wisdom of life? Or, in other words, shall we be satisfied with the externals of knowl­edge or science, or shall we rather seek "the breath and finer spirit of all knowledge"? The mere facts of an age are evanescent. The great truths of life, such as we find in the best poetrj', are deep and abiding. The mere record of facts, the account of the news of the world, is being re­written every day, from year to year, even the history of the World War. Woodrow Wilson, himself a historian, touched the heart of the matter when he said: "There is more of a nation's politics to be got out of its poetry than out of all its systematic writers upon public affairs and constitutions. .. . It is not knowledge that moves 
the world, but ideals, convictions, the opinions or fancies that have been held or followed." And these opinions, convictions, ideals are what we get from poetry. 

By JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. '32 
» » » 

Director of Athletic Publicity 


ATHLETICS 
FOOTBALL 
When we assured you after the Pitt game that there was no real cause for alarm concerning Notre Dame's 1936 football team, and used the 1925 season as a parallel with that of 1936, we had no idea that we had made one of the major prophecies of the season. 
Pei-haps the most unusual feature of the season just ended, Elmer Lay-den's third as head coach, was its i-emarkable similarity to the late Knute Rockne's 1925 record. Rock had lost the Horsemen, Mules and Stable boys of 1924 in great num­bers. Layden had lost 19 lettermen, including all but two of his regulars. In 1925 the team won its first three games and lost to Army, 27 to 0. In 1936 the Irish won their fii-st three and lost to another Eastern oponent,, Pittsburgh, 26 to 0. Each team came back to defeat a strong Big Ten op­ponent, Minnesota in 1925, and Ohio State in 1936. The only difference when the last game had been played was that in 1925 Rock's green team won 7 games, lost 2, and tied one, while in 1936 Layden's team won 6 games, lost 2, and tied one. In other words, Notre Dame probably could have played Minnesota the first quar­ter, Washington the second quarter, 
L.S.U. the third quarter, and the Green Bay Packers the foui-th quar­ter and still have won the extra game, had the schedule called for ten games. 
The boys went to a lot more trou­ble, at any rate, to lose one and tie one than they probably would have had to in order to win the mythical game just mentioned. They had to throw scoring opportunities to the winds to let Navy win, 3 to 0—not that Navy didn't fight for its three points. And in the finale, they had to play one of the wildest games of football ever seen to let Southern California tie, 13-all. 
But, having covered the first eight games of the season in more detail in earlier issues, we shall content our­selves with a brief review of the last one. 
Notre Dame, 13; Southern Cal, 13 

Able historians all, the Irish, one fourth of whom are honor students, must have decided to let history re­peat itself in a big way by allowing the Trojans of Southern California to score an upset tie in the finale. This rounded out the picture which made Layden's season comparable in al­most every detail to Rockne's in 
1936 FOOTBALL RECORD 
Notre Dame, 21 Carnegie Tech, 7 Notre Dame, 14; Washington U., 6 Notre Dame, 27 Wisconsin, 0 Pittsburgh, 26; Notre Dame, 0 Notre Dame, 7; Ohio State, 2 Navy, 3; Notre Dame, 0 Notre Dame 20 Army, 6 Notre Dame, 26; Northwestern, 6 Notre Dame, 13; Southern Cal, 13 
193C-1937 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 

Notre Dame. 41; Kalamazoo. 27 
N'otre Oamc, 39: St- Sfao"'*. 27 Notre Dame. 37; Macomb Teachers, 22 
Xorthwcstem, 38; Notre Dame, 19 
Illinois, 44; Notre Dame. 29 
Dec 31—Northwestern at Evanston 
Jan- 2—Chicago at ChicaKO Jan. 5—Kentucky at Louisville 
Jan. 9—Butler at Notre Dame 
Jan. 13—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh 
Jan. IS—Syracuse at Notre Dame 
Jan. 23—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia Jan. 25—^Western Reserve at Cleveland 
Jan. 30—(Tentative) 
Feb. 3—Purdue at Notre Dame Feb. 6—Illinois at Notre Dame 
Feb. 13—N. Y. U. at Madison Square Garden 
Feb. 15—Canisius College at Buffalo 
Feb. 20—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame 
Feb. 23—Marquette at Notre Dame Feb. 27—Butler at Indianapolis March 6—Marquette U. at Milwaukee March S—Minnesota at Notre Dame March 12—Detroit U. at Detroit 
1925. Notre Dame marched prompt­ly to a touchdo^vn after the opening kickofF, Wilke scoring on a four-yard cutback to the right. In the second quarter, Dave Schindler of S.C. broke through his left guard and went 14 yards before tossing a lateral pass to Berryman, who went another 60 yards to score against the surprised shock troops. 
Movies of the game indicate that the ball traveled forward instead of laterally, but the officials were not in a position to rule on this point. Lay­den rushed the regulars back into the game a few minutes later and they stormed to the Trojans' 9-yard stripe where it was first down. Bud Lang­ley, however, intercepted Wilke's pass to Puplis on his one-yard line, and raced 99 yards along the sidelines to score- How Referee Tom Louttit ran Interference for him inadvertently until spilled by Larry Danbom is the basis of considerable newspaper dis­cussion even at this late date, and there's no need to repeat the details. 
Opening the third period, the regu­lars sped to a touchdown, the scor­ing play having been a 15-yard pass from Wilke to McCormick. Puplis added the placement that tied the score. At one stage the officials missed an important detail which cost the Irish a touchdown. This occurred when Jack McCarthy punted to Schin­dler, who tried to avoid the ball deep in his own territory. The ball struck him, as he readily admitted after the game, and rolled into the end zone where Ed Beinor recovered for the Irish. It was no go, however, for no one in authority to rule on the play saw the ball hit Schindler. To add to the amazing set of circumstances sur­rounding this game, it should be noted that the Irish made 18 earned first downs to one on a penalty for S.C, the only time in the memory of the oldest coast fans that a South-em California eleven has been held without a first down from rushing, passing, or lateral passing. 
BASKETBALL 
All the dope sheets in the world could not give a good inkling of what Notre Dame will do in basketball this year. After winning its three warm-up games with ease, the team under­went a series of misfortunes which were instrumental in, if not entirely responsible for, its near-collapse. 
Ail-American Center Paul Nowak had undergone an appendectomy in October which has kept him below form in starts to date- All-American Forward John Moir suffered a broken jaw in the second game of the season which, while it doesn't prevent his plajring, has lessened his efficiency to a great degree. Captain Ray Meyer, hampered by a knee injury received last season, recently lost his mother. After keeping vigil at her bedside through two entire nights, and after suffering the pain of losing her, he returned the night after her death to play against Macomb Teachers—be­cause she had asked him in her last words to carry on as captain as if nothing had happened. In this game he received a broken blood vessel in his foot which put him at less than half speed for the games with North­western and Illinois. * 
Add to these misfortunes the grad­uation of a very capable team com­posed of Co-Captain Johnny Ford and Johnny Hopkins, forwards; Co­Captain Marty Peters, center; Fi-ank Wade and George Ireland, guards, and the fact that several promising basketball candidates were unable to report until after the Southern Cali­fomit trip ended December 9 because they are also footballers, and you can realize the trials Coach George Keo­gan has encountered. 
By mid-January a better estimate of the team's all-around strength can be made. Nowak, Moir and Meyer should be back in condition. The two guards. Tommy Jordan and Tommy Wukovits, •n-ill have had first team ex­perience, and a chance to practice with their now ailing mates to an ex­tent sufficient to enable them to show 
A/| 
their best; and the footballers will have become loose enough to turn in their best work. Then if the club doesn't click. Coach Keogan may as well start building for next year. 
A glance back through the records, however, shows that Notre Dame basketball teams have seldom been strong in their early games. Usually they start clicking just after the holi­days and continue to click until March. History having treated us so well this past football season, we'll count on history repeating in basket­ball and Coach Keogan maintaining his .750 w^nning percentage, possibly adding to it. 

Bulletin Is Read by 150,000 
Mailed Circulation About 5.000; More Than 800 Schools Receive Copies 
Jacques* Murals 


Finished 
Final Four Are Placed in Cathedral 
Professor Emil Jacques, head of the Art Department of the Univer­sity, completed in August the work of six years with the installation of the final four panels of a series of nine modem mural paintings in the Immaculate Conception Cathedral in Portland, Oregon. 
The Flemish professor painted the panels on canvas. The largest is 32 feet long and six feet wide. Oil and gold leaf were the principal mediums used. Throughout the entire seiies the colorings are attractively lumin­ous. Venetian reds, soft greens, cop­pers, ethereal blues, mystic whites, scarlets, soft earth tones, all leading back to the Madonna and the white of the Christ Child's garments, draw the composition into religious sym­bolism. 

-4.n arresting feature of the murals is the extreme humanization and mod­ernization of the figures. The faces are easily recognized as those of the man and the woman on the street. This marks a departure from the an­cient religious paintings whose figures and faces possessed an archaic and impersonalized dignity. Close friends of Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, of Notre Dame, will recognize him as the priest depicted in one of the mu­rals. In like manner, followers of Notre Dame's football fortunes may recognize Irish stars of the last few yeai's in the faces of the cherubs. The murals thus emhasize that reli­gion is primarily for the people of today. 
Professor Jacques was bom at Moorslede near Ypres. Educated at the Koyal -Academy of Pine Arts in -4nt>verp and at the Institut Snperieur des Beaux -Arts of Belgium, he came to America following the world war. Grief over the loss of his young wife caused him to leave his native land. It was his desire to paint some day some huge religious murals, pouring out his soul in an immense and last­ing prayer. America, where many new churches are being built, seemed to offer that opportunity. It proved a happy choice. 
Along with the administrative du­ties and teaching in Notre Dame's department of art. Professor Jacques carried on the work that was his pleasure, the painting of the murals for Portland's cathedral. He makes his home on the Notre Dame campus and does his work here. 
Do you know that the Religious Bulletin now has a mail circulation of some 5000, that it is sent to more than 800 schools and that the total number of its readers is, conserva­tively, 150,000? 
The following excerpt from the Bulletin of October 23 tells you the unusual story: 
"Tomorrow, October 24, is the fif­teenth anniversary of the Religions Bulletin, which Father O'Hara began on October 24, 1921, with an issue of seven copies—one for each of the halls then in operation at the Uni­versity, one for off-campus students. The little publication was first entitled 'Mission Bulletin'; its initial pur­pose was to call attention to certain abuses observed on the first day of the lEssion of that year. Other abuses on succeeding days of the Mission brought other Bulletins. 
"The Mission ended, and so did the Bulletin. But students began to ask for more; and they got them. The present title was adopted, and issues appeared two or three times a week. Then a request was made for a daily issue, and this demand also was met. Carbon copies remained the rule for three years thereafter—mimeograph­ing' began in September, 1924. Even then, copies were furnished for only a limited number of students—^for those who called for their Bulletins at the Prefect of Religion's office, and for a few friends outside the Uni­versity who would understand local conditions and would see in the text the exaggerated outlines of a cari­cature. 
"In October, 1929, the University decided to furnish each student with a copy daily, and to mail the Bulletin to alumni and friends who might ask for it. The number of off-cam­pus students was large at that time, and some eight hundred copies were mailed to this group. The mailing list outside the vicinity began to grow by leaps and bounds; today it num­bers some 5,000, including more than 800 schools, in most of which it is posted or read daily by the students. 
"A very conservative estimate of the number of readers today is 150,­
000. It goes to nearly every state in the Union, and to fifteen foreign countries. Its mailing, and the cor­respondence which it brings, requires a considerable portion of the time of eight secretaries. 

"Why is it read by students? The best answer is that it deals with ques­tions that the students themselves bring in, and it aims to discuss these questions in the plain, direct angnage of the students themselves. The back­ground of its arguments are the prin­ciples of Catholic faith and morals— and that's a solid background. 
"Extremely fortunate is the Bulle­tin to carry for its readers the bril­liant writings of the famous and gifted Arnold Lunn. Mr. Lunn is now lecturing at the University in the field of apologetics. On its birthday, the Bulletin thanks Mr. Lunn public­ly for his unusual kindness. 
"A prayer for the success of the Bulletin is always in order. An anni­versary certainly suggests such a prayer. Father O'Hara had recourse to St. Joseph, 'who always made apparently difficult Bulletins easy of composition.' Please ask St. Joseph ever to continue his patronage." 






ALUMNI CLUBS . > . 
Clubs Start Plans For Meetings on January 25 
Many of the club notes which fol­low show a definite indication of the enthusiasm with which the Notre Dame clubs throughout the country received the announcement of Presi­dent Arthur J. Hughes with regard to Association's anti - Communist pro­gram. And it goes without saying that there are many plans in the mak­ing which are not, on account of the briefness of time since the an­nouncement, publicized here. 
The important and immediate thing, of course, is the series of club meet­ings in all parts of the country, planned for January 25. Some clubs have already made concrete plans for these. Others will have made them by the time this ALUMNUS gets into the mail. All without exception, the president of the Association hopes, will be definitely under way with plans soon after the first of the year. 

A complete story of the campaign, with developments and suggestions, can be found on the fii-st page of this issue of ALUJINUS. 
AKRON 
William G. Burkhardt, '35, BO Mayficid Ave., Akron, President: Lawrence H, Halter, '31, 58 Hawthorne Ave., Akron, Secretary. 

ARIZONA 
Vincent Henceslmch. ex.'ZT, 1710 E. 2nd St. Tucson. President: Ted A. Witz. ex.'29. Box 628, Tucson. Secretary. 

The club, under the direction of President Vince Hengesbach, joined with a business men's organization known as the Towncats in sponsoring an enthusiastic Noti-e Dame luncheon in Tucson when the team stopped there en route to Los Angeles for the Southern Cal game.. One of the prin­cipal speakers was Tex Oliver, foot­ball coach in the University of Ari­zona. Cleon T. Knapp, president of the Towncats, presided. Elmer Lay-den spoke for his Pullman contingent. 
* 

ARKANSAS 
Burt L. Roberts, 1325 Lincoln Ave.. Little Rock, Ark., Secretary. 

BENGAL 
R t Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C., '02. Dacca, Bensal. India. President: Rev. J. J. Hennessey, C.S.G., '02, Dacca. Beneal, India. Secretary. 
* 

BERRIEN COUNTY (Micbi^an) 
Eugene O'Toole. '20, S21-S25 State St., St Joseph, President: Frank A. Deitle. "26, Napier Ave., Benton Harbor, Secretary. 
BOSTON 
James Dooley, '22, 368 Main St. North An­dover, Mass., President; James Skahan, '31. 5 Grove St., Belmont, Mass., Secretary. 
BUFFALO 
John G. Byrne. '23, H9 Monroe Dr.. WU­liamsville, N. V. President: Robert MeaMr, '34, The Amherst Bee Co., Main & Rock Sts., Williamsville, N. Y., Secretary. 
The Buffalo Club was to have its annual Christmas Formal in the Hotel Statler ballroom on December 26, with music by the Allan Brooks orchestra. Tom Condon and Paul Sheedy were in charge of table reser­vations. 

Biffy Lee and John Byrne were the principal speakers at the banquet of the Southwestern high school confer­ence held in Silver Creek on Decem­ber 8. The banner, emblematic of the football championship of the con­ference for the 1936 season, was presented by the Buffalo club to Westfield high school. John Byrne, president of the local club, did the presentation honors at the banquet. Robert P. Galloway, Silver Creek attorney, introduced the guests. 
* 

CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-IU.) 
John Rohrbach. '23, Crown Point, Ind.. 
President: Fred J. Solman. Jr.. '28, E7S2 
Erie Ave.. Hammond, Ind., Secretary. 

The 7936-37 Board 
Arthur J. Hughes, "11, Chicago, III ' President Ray J. Eichenlaub, '15, Columbus, Ohio First Vice-President Henry I. Dockweiler, ' 12, Los Angeles, Cal Second Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame Secretary-Treasurer William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame Assistant Secretary Fred L Steers, "11, Chicago, III Director to 1937 James E. Deery, '10, Indianapolis, Ind Director to 1938 Don P. O'Keefe, '03, Detroit, Mich Director to 1939 Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, N. J Director to 1940 Bernard J. Voll, "17. South Bend, Ind Director to 1937 (ex-officio) Joseph Waldron, '36, Trenton, N. J ^ : Director to 1937 

The 7936-37 District Governors 
Alexis Coquillard, '03, South Bend, Ind District I Fred L. Steers, "11, Chicago District 2 Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '17, Pittsburgh, Pa District 3 Eugene A. O'Brien, '28, Minneapolis, Minn District 4 Dr. John T. Bums, "13, Kalamazoo, Mich : District 5 
B. K. Wingerter, '26, East Orange, N. J District 6 Hugh A. O'Donnell, '94, New York City - District 7 John J. Huether, "22, Schenectady, N. V District 8 Thomas Collins, "28, Fall River, Mass District 9 Anselm D. Miller, '25, Roanoke, Va District 10 Frank W. Thomas, '23, Tuscaloosa, Ala District 11 William Reisert, Jr., '29, Louisville, Ky District 12 Cyprian Sporl, Jr., '28, New Orleans, La District 13 
D. Patrick Buell, '24, Dallas, Texas District 14 Daniel F. Foley, '23, Ft. Leavenworth, Kan District 15 Clarence Ruddy, '27, Aurora, III District 16 Earl W. Brown, "93, Helena, Mont District 17 James P. Logan, "18, Denver, Colo ' .-District 18 Anton R. Hebenstreit, 'II, Albuquerque, New Mex District 19 
W. Breen McDonald, '17, San Francisco. Calif. District 20 Samuel M. Dolan, '10, North Bend, Ore -District 21 To be elected District 22 
The Notre Dame Alumnus January, 1937 
CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) 
Bichard S. Walsh, '31, 2191 Flazs, Schenec­tady. N. Y., President: John B. Land. 'SI. 4 HedeemMd Ave., Schenectady, Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of the Cap­ital District will hold a Christmas Dance for the benefit of its scholar­ship fund, on December 28, from 10 to 3, at the Hotel Ten Eyck, -^.Ibany. 
Students returning from Notre Dame for the holidays, and their friends, have also been invited. 
The Rockne Trophy, an annual 
award by the club to the winner of 
the Capital District Catholic high 
school league football championship, 
was presented to Christian Brothers 
Academy, Albany, Monday evening, 
December 7. .A.t a banquet attended 
by the mayor of Albany, Andy Kerr, 
football coach at Colgate University, 
and 500 guests, Richard S. Walsh, 
president of the Noti-e Dame Club, 
presented the Rockne Trophy to the 
1936 winners. 
Dick Walsh. 
* 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dr. E. J. Hermes, '16, 1910 Oakland St.. Lansintr. President; J. Harvey Gauthier. '30. Bark River, Mich., Secretary. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY 
Anthony V. Ceres, '28. Perth Amboy Nafl. Bank BldcPerth Amboy, President: John Lisicki, '31. 215 Water Street, Perth Amboy, Secretary. 
CENTRAL OHIO 
Raymond J. Eichenlaub, '15, Hoster Realty BldR.. Columbus, President. 
Under the direction of President Ray Eichenlaub the club will be ac­tive in the anti-Communistic cam­paign. Hay promises full support from all angles and the assistance of able radio speakers. 
* 
CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA 
Leonard Burns, '25, 1635 20th Ave., Altoona, Pa., President: Wffliam McAleer, '31, 1518 19th Ave., Altoona. Pa., Secretary. 
CHICAGO 
Edward W. Gould, '23. 1313 W. Randolph St., President; Patrick P. Crowley. '33, 742 Junior Terrace, Secretary. 
Chicago alumni were to take a prominent part in the father and son banquet on December 26, sponsored by the Chicago students on the cam­pus. On the speaking list, according to early announcements, were Father O'Hara, Elmer Layden, Jimmy Crow­ley and Warren Brown. John E. Maloney, 6500 Newgard Avenue, is president of the student group. Other officers are:Andy Puplis, 4451 South Talman Avenue, Richard Carrol], 7232 Luella Avenue, Joseph J. Kelly, 4300 Lake Shore Drive. 
The campus dub sponsored a dance in the Lake Shore -A.thletic Club on December 28 to which the alumni were invited. 
CINCINNATI 
Harry V. Crumley, '03. 265B S. Harrison Ave.. Westwood Branch. President; Frank 
H. Sweeney, ex. '17. Kemper Lane Hotel, Secretary. 
* 
CLEVELAND 
J. Patrick Canny. '28. 1660 Warren Road. lAkewood, Oiiio, President: Lawrence Krai, '31, 276 E. 272 St.. Cleveland. Ohio, Secre­tary. 
* 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
Harry J. Deegan, ex. '31, 100 Francis Ave.. Hartford, Conn., President; John M. Cianei. '29, 500 Allen St., New Britain, Conn., Secretao*. 
* 
DALLAS 
James P. Swift. '24. 1202 Southwestern Life Bids.. Dallas, President; Francis A. McGnl­louBh, '30, 917 First National Bank Bide., Dallas, Secretary. 
* 
DAYTON 
Exieene Mayl, '24, 400 Irving Ave., Presi­dent : William Cronin. '29, 418 Cratton Ave., Secretary. 
* 
DENVER 
Robert A. Dick. '29, 931 14th Ave., Presi­dent: Harry X.awrence, '29, 1951 Lawrence St., Secretary. 
Continuing in the high gear mani­fested in the Denver Special to the campus for the Ohio State game, the Denver Club, directed by President Bob Dick, received the football party in Denver on the return trip from Los Angeles. -\n outstanding and dis­tinctive program was arranged. 
Immediately upon arriving in Den­ver the party was taken on an auto­mobile tour of the city and up Look­out Mountain nearby. Seven thous­and feet up, at the top of Lookout Mountain, is Buffalo Bill's grave. 
A luncheon for the party was sei-ved in the Denver Athletic Club. One of the guests of honor was Glen Morris, Ob"mpic decathon champion. 
DETROIT 
Gilbert F. Sehaefer. '26, 17380 Monica, Pres­ident: John W, Brennan, '27, 632 Fisher BIdff., Secretary. 
Dr. Daniel O'Grady, of the Depart­ment of Philosophy, delivered, on De­cember 11, the first of a series of Notre Dame lectures in Detroit, spon­sored by the Detroit club. He will be followed on January 15 by Profes­sor Clarence (Pat) Manion of the College of Law, who will talk on "Scrapping the Constitution." Pat will be followed by Christopher Hol­lis, outstanding English economist, writer and lecturer, who will return to the Notre Dame faculty for the second semester, and Father Charles Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
The lectures are being held in the Detroit Institute of .A.rt. John Bren­nan, secretary of the club, is the able, energetic and enthusiastic chairman in charge. 
DES MOINES 
Harry O'Boyle. '27, 2801 Grand Ave., Presi­dent: Richard Hyde, '35, 678 26th St, Secretary. 
Late bulletins from the com king­dom. 
The Notre Dame Club of Des Moines met on December 17 in the Port Des Moines Hotel for a prelim­inary discussion and consideration of the current campaign against sub­versive influences in this country. Al­though such activity is very rare in this region, the association can count on our whole-hearted support in com­bating it. As yet Prexy O'Boyle has made no committee appointments, as the meeting was called on short no­tice and several men were unable to attend. 
A group of our local men got to­gether at Vic Becker's home Decem­ber 5 to listen to the Southern Cal game. Vic has got a new house, and it has a game room of which he is justly proud. Present at the gather­ing were Jim Shaw, Harry O'Boyle, Harold and Fred Neu, Harold Klein and Carieton Beh. 
A good news item concerns Harry O'Boyle. His Dowling College outfit annexed the state Catholic champion­ship this Fall. Harry has had a good year so far and, from all reports, has a good basketball team coming up. 
The latest number of the local proud fathers club is Harold Neu. Both Mrs. Neu and the little girl are doing fine. Harold pulled through all right, too. 
We plan to have our next meeting the second Monday in Jenuary, and I will keep you informed about the progress we make in contacting pro­spective students and all other activ­ities. 
Dick Hyde. 
* 
DUBUQUE 
C 1, Krajewski, *16, 321 Bank & Insurance Bid e President: Henry I. Trenkic, '24, 180 
S. Booth St., Secretary. 
EASTERN INDIANA Thomas A. Cannon. '33, 401 Wysor Bide., Muncie, Ind., President; Alvis E. Graneer, ex. '31. 617 S. Jefferson St., Hartford City, Ind., Secretary. 
* 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA Leo B. Mclntyre, '28, Bethlehem, President; Ernest L. Wilhelm, '27, New Jersey Zinc Co., Research Dept.. Falmerton, Secretary. 
* 
ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA 
Richard D. Daley, '17, Erie Daily Times, 
President; Thomas Barber. '24, 416 New­
man St., Secretary. 
* 
FAIRFIELD COUNTY 
James Murphy, '22, 611 Security Bide., 
Brideeport. Conn.. President; Joseph E. 
Rosso, '32, 166 Hough Ave., Bridgeport, 
Conn., Secretary. 
*. 
FLINT (Michigan) 
Stephen J. Roth. '31, 723 Union Industrial 
Bldg.. President; Donald F. MacDonald, '31, 
1631 W. Court St.. Secretary. 

FORT WAYNE. INDIANA 
Edward S. SulUvan. '24. 125 E. Suttenfield St., President; Maurice J. DeWald. '33, 2415 Huburtus St.. Secretary. 

In answer to the recent request, I have solicited the services of Henry Hasley to direct the part the Notre Dame Club of Fort Wayne willingly accepts in the Alumni Association's anti-Communistic movement. 
Mr. Hasley has done some work in the past along these lines, and I feel confident he is our most logical and able representative. He has asked that a little time be given him for choosing his assistants. 
May I also include just a note con­cerning a change in officers of the club. Because of illness caused by sinus infection, Herman J. Centlivre will not he able to act as our secre­tary this year. In his place I have appointed Maurice J. DeWald, whom you ^\•ill no doubt remember as our treasurer last year. Maurice has taken over the duties of secretary already, so any further correspond­ence you may have for such office of our club may be sent to him at 2415 Huburtus Street. 
I know I am late with my news items for the month of November, but am sending them on with the hope that they will reach you in time for publication. [Ed's Note: They didn't. Sori-y!] 
The item of greatest interest is already known to you, namely, the death of Honoi-able John W. Egge­man. It is needless for me to tell you how much the Notre Dame Club of Fort WajTie will miss him. 
On Saturday, November 14, 1936, the day of the Army-Notre Dame game a luncheon meeting was held in Parlor B of the Hotel Keenan. In addition to listening to the broadcast of the game the business consisted of electing officers for the ensuing year. The results of this election were as follows: 
Edward S. Sullivan, president; Charles Reuss, vice-president; Her­man Centlivre, secretary and Robert Sosenheimer, treasurer. 
Henry Hasley and Frank Metrailer served on the nominating committee. 
Thirty-three members were in attendance. Among the guests were Father Mooney and Father Over. Donnelly P. McDonald, our past pres­ident, presided. 
C. Byron Hayes was re-elected Prosecuting Attorney of Allen Coun­ty at the recent election. 
Henry Hasley addressed the mem­bers of Crestline, Ohio Knights of Co­lumbus council at the Discovery Day banquet given by the council on Sun­day evening, October 11, 1936 in the local parish hall. 
John Logan, recently graduated in law, is practicing in the offices of 

Townsend, Thomas and Hilgeraan, 
403 Standard Building, here in Fort 
Wayne. 
Edward S. Sullivan. 

GRAND RAPIDS Gcorce E. Ludwig, '25, 328 Glenhaven Ave.,' 
N. W., President: Raymond J. Bonini. '27, 607 Atwood. N.E., Secretary. 
* 

GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN 
Harold L. Londo. '24, C3ty EnEineera' ofBce. 
City Hall. President: Levi A. Geniesse, '24. 
SIO Hinaban Btd^., Secretary. 

GREATER LOUISVILLE 
Raymond PfeiSer, '32, 3032 LexinEton Rd.. 
Louisville, President; Jobn B. Eatterrosn. 
Jr.. ex. "32, 2114 W. Market St.. Louisville. 
Secretary. 

A Christmas dance, stag party, and the basketball game between Ken­tucky and N. D. shared honors at the meeting November 24. A good bunch of fellows turned out for the meeting. Each week we see new faces present. 
The Christmas dance is in charge of Chairman Russ Leonard, '34, who hails from Frankfort Distilleries. The other committee men are Bob Burke, Jr., '36, of U. of L. law school, Pat Green, '29, assistant prosecuting at­torney of the Louisville police depart­ment, Charles Schwartzel, '34, with his father in New Albany Box and Basket Company, and Tony Schrein­er, '31, also of JFVankfort Distilleries. You can imagine, with men as these, that the dance will be "tops." The boys picked Saturday, January 2, for the date. 
The meeting Monday, December 21 likewise will be in the nature of a stag. The usual lunch and refresh­ments, of course, will be there in buffet style. This date has been select­ed especially to avail the students an opportunity to contact their local club at home. 
Plans are under way for a special club section to be reserved at the bas­ketball game when Notre Dame meets Kentuck}'. Tony Schreiner is in charge. The game will be played Tuesday, Januarj- 5, in Louisville. 
Incidentally President PfeifFer, '32, informed the fellows that very few had sent in their Alumni dues. 
John B. Ratternnan, Jr. 

I have your letter of December 9 relative to the proposed fight against Communism. 
It gives me great pleasure to be asked to have our club assist the As­sociation in their fight against the "isms" of today. You can depend on us gi^nng our full co-operation in backing this program. I personally believe it is the greatest advancement Notre Dame has ever made. 
I am calling a meting of the club to be held December 21, at which time I will ask the members to give our selected committee and myself their whole-hearted co-operation. At the present date, I have not appointed a committee, but will do so on De­cember 21, at which time I will advise you the names of the men who will compose this committee. I will also see to it that we have another meet­ing on January 25, as requested by you. 
Ray Ff eiffer. 
* 

GOGEBIC RANGE (Michicaa) 
Robert O'Callasban. ex. '16, GoKdie Na^ tional Bank. Irownjod. President; Francis 
J. Vukovich. '35. Rjdffe St., Ironwood, Hich.. Secretary. 
* 

HAMILTON. OHIO 
If. O. Bums. '86. 338 S. Second St. Fi«s!­dent; Hare A. Fiehrer. '27, 701 Renlschler Bids., Secretary. 
* 

HARRISBURG 
Edirard C. Smitb. '01. 2523 N. Second St. President: Jobn J. McNeill, '33, Cbevrolct Motor Co.. Secretary. 

HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.) Gerald J. Oeary. '21. 310 lake Sbore Dr.. Escanaba. Mich.. President; Edward J. Dundon, '22. Iron Mountain. Micb., Secre­tary. 
Alumni of Hiawathaland will meet on January 25, in common with Notre Dame clubs in all parts of the coun­try, according to word from Gerald J. Cleary, club president. 
HOUSTON 
M. E. •Walter. '14. 1702 Stuart Ave.. Hous­ton. President; Thomas F, Green. Jr., '27, Gonroe. "Texas. Secretary. 

JACKSON, MICHIGAN 
Lester Wisda. '31. 1016 E. Ganson St.. President: Lyman Hill. "29. 224 S. Mechanic St.. Secretary. 
* 

JOLIET, ILLINOIS Robert Baskerville. '31, 104 Younss Ave.. President; Qarence Wilhelmi, '18. 909 Oneida St.. Secretary. 
* 

INDIANAPOLIS Charles E. Mason. '26. Indiana Belt Tele­phone Co., President: Frank P. McCarthy, 
•28. 819 N. Gray St, Secretary. 
* 

KANSAS Albert J. Gebert. '30. V. of Wichita, Wich­ita, Kansas, President: Dan Welchons. '30, 623 Elm St., Ottavra, Kansas, Secretary. 
The alumni and present students in Kansas were to co-operate on De­cember 26 in having a dance at the Salina Country Club, Salina, Kansas. Albert J. Schwartz. '37, of Salina,. associate manager of football this year, was general chairman of the dance. Norb Schwartz, '33, and Norb Sbelley, '23, both of Salina, were active in the arrangements on behalf of the alumni. A very laud­able part of the plans was the exten­sion of invitations, without charge, to prospective Notre Dame students in the area. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus January, 1937 
KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) 
Roliert Tyler, '29, 3S16 Paseo Blvd., Kansas City, Mo., President; Charles B. Meyer, '29, 420 E. Armour Blvd., Kansas City, Mo., Secretary. 
Rome Dugan \\-ill head our anti-Communism committee. Dan Foley, present district governor, Henry A. Burdick, Dr, Kevin Curran, Fred Man­cuso, Henry Massman, Edward Mc­Grath, Frank Tyler, Doctor Nigro, John O'Connor and the officers of the Kansas Citj' Notre Dame Club will make up the remainder of the com­mittee. 
You may ocunt on 100 per cent co­operation on the part of the men at Kansas Citj'. It's a great undertak­ing. It has our best wishes and merits our strongest endeavors. Congratu­lations to our president, Mr. Hughes, and to yourself. May your work be amply repaid. 
Robert M. Tyler. 
tAPORTE, INDIANA 
Oarence Bunce, '25. S13 RidEC St.. Presi­dent: Stephen Sbapley, '30, Goodyear Tire Co.. Secretary. 
* 
LOS ANGELES 
Eugene M. Kennedy, '22, Bank of America. 7th & Sprine St.. President: Douelas Daley, '30, 781 Ceres Ave., Secretary. 
A brilliant, star-studded show that, according to Jack Ledden, sports edi­tor of the South Bend Tribune, "would cost $10 per ticket with no questions asked" was presented by the Los Angeles club in the Biltmore Hotel on the Friday night before the Southern Cal game. Attorney Joe Cunninghm was master of ceremonies and his assistant was Nick Lukats. 
Among those appearing on the pro­gram were Joe Morrison, Jack Mo­ran, Buster Crabbe, Jim Tully, Ralph Murphy, Frank Sully, Vince Bamett, Will Ahem and Pat O'Brien. 
The football coaching field was re­presented by Jimmy Phelan, Tom Lieb, Manny Vezie, Howard Jones, Frank Thomas, Bemie Bierman, Bill Spaulding, Larry Mullins, and Elmer Layden. 
Bill Cemey showed the movies of the Ohio-N. D. game in such a mas­terful way that he was almost signed on the spot by Ralph Murphy, one of Universal's directors. Joe Scott, prominent attorney and Laetare med­alist, spoke, particularly praising Cemey's skill in describing the pic­

. tures. 
* 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
p . E. Burke, '88, 307 Camp St., New Or­leans, La., President: Cyprian A. Sporl, Jr., '28, Whitney-Central Bldg., New Orleans, La., Secretary. 
* 
MANILA Eduardo Boxas, *33, 719 Exchan^, Manila, President; Leopoldo Biias, Manila, Secre­tary. 
MEMPHIS 
Stnrla Canole, '35, 620 S. Belvidere, Presi­dent; Lavin McNicbolas, '35, 691 N. Treie­vant St, Secretary. 
* 
MIAMI, FLORIDA 
Vincent C. Giblin. '18, 4103 Collins Ave, Miami Beach. President; Daniel J. Lino, ex. '34, 1617 N. W. Ninth Ave., Miami, Secre­tary. 
* 
MILWAUKEE Joseph GrifBn, '28. 210 E. Michiffan St., President; Jean LaBoule, '29, 524 E. Mason St., Secretary. 
* 
MONTANA 
William B. Jones. '28, 411 Power BIdjf., 
Helena, President: Rev. John Regan, '24, 
Bishop's House, Great Falls, Secretsury. 
A group of Notre Dame men were hosts at an informal dinner, Friday evening, November 27, in the Rain­bow Hotel, Great Falls, Montana. The guests of the evening were His Excel­lency, Most Rev. Edwin V. O'Hara, bishop of Great Falls, Robert Reagan and his friend, Frank Jordan, both associated with Harry Stuhldreher on the coaching staff at the University of Wisconsin. 
Bishop O'Hara is one of Notre Dame's most distinguished alumni, and is also a former professor at that institution. Bob Keagan, the "fight­ing center" of the teams of '23 and '24, stopped off vrtlh Frank to visit relatives of the latter before resum­ing the trip to the coast. Jordan never attended Notre Dame but he has been associated with Stuhldreher and Reagan so long at Villanova and Wisconsin that he seems to have ab­sorbed some of the N.D. spirit, and was right at home with the group that gathered around the festive table. 
To J. B. Sherlock, of Great Falls, one of the organizers of the Knights of Columbus Council at Notre Dame, was due the success of the evening. Those present included Joe Maronick, Clarence Beaulaurier, Len Regan, Frank Golob, E. Pat Egan, J. B. Sherlock, Rev. John Regan, and Bishop O'Hara, Mr. Jordan and Mr. Reagan. 
(Rev.) John Regan. 
Your letter of December 9, con­cerning the several Notre Dame Club activities in opposition to the com­munistic movement in this country, has been received. I think that this is a grand program, and I congratu­late you and the other officers of the Alumni Association in undertaking it. I am particularly interested in this movement and will do all in my power to make it succeed here in Montana. 
Because of the seriousness of the program I am going to take a little time in thinking over the members of the committee that 1 am to appoint, as well as the chairman. Also, I want to read the ALUMNUS on this program and have it explained to me in detail before acting in the appointment of this committee. However, I shall have my committee together at a meeting on January 25. 
Bill Jones. 
* 
NEW JERSEY Raymond A. Geisrer, '32, 446 Eastern Park­way, Irvington, N. J,. President; Daniel O'Nein, '26, 184 N, Walnut St, E. Oranse, 
N. J., Secretary. 
* 
NEW YORK CITY 
J. Norbert Gelson, "26, 1201 Troy Ave., Brooklyn, President; Warren S. Fogel. '30. 70 Wall St, Secretary. 
* 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA Mark G. Kreutzer. '24, 311 California St, Rm. 524, San Francisco. President; Elmer Wynne, '29, c/o E. S. Townscnd Co., 15th Fl., Russ Bldg., San Francisco, Secretary. 
* 
NASHVILLE Kennedy Jones, '30, Jones Chemical Com­pany, Secretary. 
OKLAHOMA Joseph A. Moran, '32, 1611 S. Carson. Tulsa. President: Marion J. Blake, '33, • National Bank of Tulsa BIdr., Tulsa, Secretary. 
OREGON Samnel M. Dolan. '10, 4726 N. E. Alameda Drive, Portland, President; J. Ron Sullivan, '30, 611 Board of Trade Bids., Portland, Secretary. 
* 
PARIS Louis P. Harl, '16. Paris Office, New York Herald-Tribune, Paris, France, President 
* 
PEORIA Bradley Prescott, ex. '31, Central Illinois Light Co., President; Al Gury, Jr., '28, 612 Albany Ave,, Secretary. 
PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
E. J. Hilkert. '22, 402 TiUe & Trust Bids;.. Phoenix, President 
• 
PHILADELPHIA Walter Ridley. '31. 6824 N. Uth St. President: A. J. Wackerman. '35, 5356 Chew Street, Secretary. 
* 
RHODE ISLAND & SOUTH. MASS. Robert W. Powers. Jr., ex. '29, 22 Roseland Ave., Cranston. R,!.. President: John K. Jolly, ex. '18, 457 Pawtucket Ave., Paw­tucket, R. L, Secretary. 

ROCHESTER, (New York) 
Frank Norton, '32, 80 Beckwith Terrace, President: D. Bernard Hennessy, '34. 119 Bedford St. Secretary. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY (Illinois) Paul J. Fry. '27, 210 W. Third St, Dixon, HI., President: Gerald Jones, '22, 105 E. Second St, Dixon, HI., Secretary. 
SAN ANTONIO William V. Dielmann. Jr., '25, 107 Thelma Drive. President; Edward G; Conroy, *30, 204 E. Crais PI.. Secretary. 
SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) Thomas F. Van Aarle, '21, Standard Oil Co., Sasinaw, Hich., President; William C. Hor­ley, '25, 117 Cherry St. Saginaw. Mich., Secretary. Joe Boland was in Saginaw Mon­day, December 14, to talk at the an­nn^ K. of C. football banquet. We 

were sorry that he couldn't bring some of the boys with him, but the program didn't suffer. He gave a wonderful talk and proved a fine commentator on the pictures after­ward. 
We had a stag party later for the 

N. D. alumni and a few friends— just a quiet affair where we sat around and chewed the fat. Several have expressed themselves as being sorry thy couldn't be there, but we had a good attendance. Harold Lap-pin, Gene Witchger, Joe Vertacnik, Joe Friske, John Strable, Herb Schnettler, Bill Kosch, Art Kerns, George Weadock, Neil Barnett, Roy Tatham, Bill Kennedy, Jack Zuber, Tom Van Aarle, were there. We were glad to welcome Dick Eckrich, '36, from Jackson, who is working for the Wilson Company here. 
We are planning a party in Jan­uary. Bill Hurley. * 
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS Kudolph Kelly, ex. *17, 909 S. Park Ave., President: Pnul D. McConnell, '32, 120 S. Walnut St, Secretary. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) lioais F. Baekley, '28. 718 E. Corhy Blvd., South Bend, Ind., President: Clarence Hard­ing;, *25, South Bend Tribune. South Bend, Ind., Secretary. 
Dillon J. Patterson, general chair­man, has named the following com­mittees to direct the annual football banquet to be held in the Notre Dame Dining Hall on January 11. 
ArranKements — Harold Weber, chairman, Thomas L. Hickcy, Dr. F. J. Vurpillat, M. R. Cahill, Luke Kelley, W. C. Fortier. John W. Kaufer, Jerome Voeel, William J. Furey, Rus­sell C. Kuehl, Frank E. CouRhlin, Martin M. Seuss. Giles L. Cain, Albert L. Doyle. J. Al­bert McGann, Louis C. Chnplcau. William E. Voor, Nathan Altman, Albert J. Brasseur, Earl P. Frarcy, Devere T. Plunkett, Callix 
E. Miller. J. Frank Miles. J. H. B. McCarthy, Grover Malonc. Francis B. Moran, Ronald E. Rich, Frank OehlholTen, GeorRC N. Bcamer, Lorcn J. Hess, Fred U, Parent, Paul L Fen-Ion, John E. BerBan, Andrew J. Boyle. J. W. Quinlan. Howard Webster, Willard F. WaB­nor. Jack Shively and Lawrence H. Baldinger. 
PrOKram — James E. Armstrong, national alumni secretary, chairman; Bernard J. Voll, 
J. Arthur Haley. Earl E. Reeder, Francis Jones, William F. Sheehan, Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., Joseph J, Casasanta. Elmer 
F. L.iyden and Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C. Finance — K. Floyd Se-arer, chairman: John 
E. Mdntyre, J. Schmitt, Robert J. ntzsim­mons and Harry S. Driggs. 
Publicity — Joseph F. Petritz, chairman: John W. Gibbons, Carl E. Zimmerer. James 
D. Ash, Eu&ene P. Noon, Clarence W. Harding and Thomas J. Barry. 
Guest — Dr. R. M. McDonald, chairman: G. 

A. Farabaugh, George L. O'Brien, Vitus G. Jones, Joseph J. McCaffery, Joseph F. Dona­hue, Bernard J. McCaffery Walter McTnemy, Clarence Manion. A. C. Coquillard, Dudley M. Shively, Joseph M. Boland. John P.- Nicholson, Pedro A. de Landcro, Edward J. Mechan, George E. Keogan, John J. O'Brien, Paul M. Butler, E. M. Morris. D. C. Grant. William J. 
•Cemey, J. E. McCarthy and Eugene J. Youn^. 
Ticket — Herbert E. Jones, chairman: Ken­neth J. Qualley, Aaron H. Huguenard, IJOUIS 
V. Bruggner, Clarence Putter, Paul A. Fergus, Jay Masenich, Alfred S. Ostrom. L. A. Ka­lupa, James I. Boland, Fred Carideo, Joseph Nyikos, Arthur J. Diedrich, Edward P. Kreim­er, Harry A. Richwine, Alois W. Johannes, Kussell H. Amdt, Michael A. Donahue, John B. DeWilde, John W. Schindler. Fred B. Dresscl, Eugene L. O'Brien, George B. Sheehe. 
ST. LOUIS Robert Hdlrung. '30, 306 N. Grand Blvd.. President; David J. Beilley, Jr., '30, 1116 Louisville Ave.. Secretary. 
The St. Louis boys are determined to get the films of the games off the still hot grid. Coach Bill Cerney is going down with a set on January 4, according to present plans. And even this new year's date has kept the fast moving Missourians champing at the bit. 
Bob Hellrung writes, in addition to the above arrangements: 
Regarding your letter received on Thursday, pertaining to the combatt­ing subersive activity, I have not as yet received my copy of the ALUJI­NUS. However, I will appoint a committee immediately, and shall be very happy to co-operate with this movement. 
I am very sorry that Marie and I did not have an opportunity to call on you the day of the Ohio-State game. Because of the rain we were unable to do any visiting at all. We regretted the weather very much, but the outcome of that game turned everything to sunshine. 
Best pex-sonal regards and best of luck for the coming year to you and the Alumni Association. 
* 

SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. Harry J. Corcoran, '27, 82 Port Watson St, Cbrtl&nd, N. Y., President: Donald J. Shee­hy, *33, 104 Glahn Ave., Syracnae, Secretary. 
* TIFFIN, OHIO 
C. J. Schmidt, '11, 260 Melmore St, Presi­dent: Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St, Secretary. 
* 

TOLEDO 
Norbert Scfaarf, '26, Toledo Edison Co., 
President: Joseph L. WeUi, '31, 717 Starr 
Ave., Secretary. 

TRI-CITIES (Illinoi.-Iowa) 
George Ublmeyer, '23, Peoples' light Co., Moline, HI., President; Elmer W. Besten. LL.B., '27, 1711 W. SLtth St, Davenport, la.. Secretary. 
* 

TRIPLE CITIES (New York) 
Joseph Hunt, Binghamton, President Wil­liam Yeager, '34, 18 Vine St., Binghamton, Secretary. 

* TRI-STATE 
F. Wendell Lensing, '30, 601 Bayard Park, Evansville. Ind., President; Ralph F. Heger, '25, 111 Washington Ave., Apt D., Evans­ville, Ind., Secretary. 
* 

TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) Gerald F. Conway, '32. David Inc., First Nat'l Bk. Bldg., S t Paul, Minn., President: Joseph R. Schroeder, 'SI, 219 Fremont Ave., N., Minneapolis, Minn.. Secretary. 
UTAH Raymond R. Brady, '24, 206 Keams Bide-Salt Lake City, President; Cyril Harbnke, '19. Si F. St. Salt Lake City, SecietaiT. 
The Salt Lake City alumni and 

their friends did a grand job enter­taining the football team and the coaches when they all stopped there on the trip back to South Bend after the Southern Cal game. Writing in the South Bend Neivs-Times, Jim Costin, sports editor, said: 
"Private cars met the special when it rolled into town at 8:30 and took every one on a short sight-seeing tour of the city, including a glimpse of the famed Mormon Temple and its equal­ly famous 'pin dropping act,' which amazes all beholders. Then to the Chamber of Commerce for the lunch­eon and reception. Members of the latter committee included Governor Blood of Utah, Bishop Kearney, Mayor Erwin and General Sweeney. Its chairman was Judge Robert I. Mc. Donough. General arrangements were in charge of Raymond R. Brady, pres­ident of the Notre Dame Alumni As­sociation of Utah, with transportation being in charge of Arthur E. Lund, presiden t of the Intermountain 
A.A.U. It was a little bit of all right, the Salt Lake City affair, and was enjoyed by all the visiting firemen. We got away from Salt Lake City about 11 o'clock." 
* 

WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT 
John Robinson, '28, 32 Farmington Ave., President; James M. Monaghan, '27, 44 Ayer St, Secretary. 
* 

WESTERN WASHINGTON John J. Dempsey, '95, Dempsey Lumber Co.. Tacoma, President: Robert L PIgott, '32, 3603 W. Manning St, Seattle, Secretary. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA Joseph Bach, '26, Fort Pitt Hotel. Presi­dent; William Magarrall, '32, 1439 Franklin Ave., Wilkinsburg, Secretary. 
* 

WHEELING. WEST VIRGINIA Thomas F. Howley, '11. CitJiens-PeoplM Trust Co„ Wheeling. President; George S» ­gus, '23, 2111 Belmont, Bellaire. Ohio. 
* 

YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO John Moraa, 'i», lS4g Qoina. Preaident; Qiarles ' Cuibtra, '31, 46S Hadera Ave., Secretary. 
* 

WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
Sister Elizabeth Seton, S.C., S t Mary's Col­lege, Holy Cross. Ind., President; Sister M. Angelice, B.V.M., St, Joseph Convent, Mt Carmel, Dubuque. Iowa, Secretary. 
* 

UTICA. NEW YORK Dr. John F. Kelley, '22, Peoples' Ga» & Electric Bldg., President; Joseph W. Kallem, '31. 1621 Ncilson St. Secretary. 
* 

WABASH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Paul Kennedy, '24, Templcton. Ind., Presi­
dent Emmett Ferguson, '32, Wallace Bldg.. 
Lafayette, Ind., Secretary. 
* 

WASHINGTON, D. C Thomas S. Markey, '29, Shoreham Bldg.. Washington. President; Paul Berefci. '27, 815 18th St, N.W., Washington, Secretary. 
.\t the regular meeting of the Clvib on Friday, December 11, Rev. Wil­frid Parsons, S.J., of Georgetown, talked on Communism. 

» » » »




THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Esther Stoeckinger and Loren J. Hess, '33. The wedding will take place January 12. 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Mary F. Walsh and Frederick J. Meyer, '33, of Peoria, Illinois. 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss M. Elizabeth Keene and John H. Travers, Jr., '33. 
Marriages 
Miss Agnes Marie Callahan and Clarence J. James, ex. '15, were mar­ried November 26, in Philadelphia. 
Miss Jeanne Barbara Dennis and Martin J. Travers, '30, were married September 5, in St. Mark's Church, Buffalo, New York. 
Sliss Vi\'ia Alguire and IWorton Keegan, Jr., '31, were married Janu­ary 1, in South Bend. 
Samuel J. Nicholas, '34, was mar­ried last November 22 to Miss Jef­fries of Natchez, Mississippi. 
Miss Dorothy Marie Ehlert and Robert J. Shields, '35, were married November 28, in St. Joseph's Church, Kalamazoo, Michigan. 
Miss Mary Mae TorzewsM and Joseph L. Fitzmaurice, '36, were mar­ried December 26, in the hog Chape], Notre Dame. 

Births 
Mr. and Mrs. Antonio R. Diaz, ex. '32, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Enna Maria, November 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur McGee, '31, announce the birth of a son, Timothy James, November 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry E. Hinsen­kamp, ex. '31, announce the birth of a daughter, Marlene Anne, November 23. 


Deaths 
Attorney Chauncey W. Yockey, '01, 59 years old, for many years an out­standing citizen of Milwaukee, brother of Edward J. Yockey, '99, died in Milwaukee on November 28 of rheu­
matism of the heart. 
Prominently active in many of the civic and the political affairs of his home cit}', Mr. Yockey was particu­larly identified with Elks lodge. When he relinquished the post in 1933 he had been exalted ruler of the Mil­waukee Elks for 17 years, a tenure of office longer than any other in the history of the order. -4.t the time of his death he was a member of the fire and police commission of Milwaukee. The city and the state of Wisconsin had honored him with other offices and appointments almost beyond number. 
-AiK-ays prominent and active in the affairs of Notre Dame in Milwaukee, Mr. Yockey was a former president of the Notre Dame club of Milwau­kee. He had a particular interest in sports and was an ardent supporter of the Notre Dame athletic teams. 
The funeral Mass was in Gesu Church, Milwaukee, on December 2. One of the active pallbearers was Dr. John R. Dundon, '14, Mr. Yock­ey's physician. Among the honorarj­pallbearers were Senator Robert M. La PoUette, Governor Phil La Fol­lette, Mayor Hoan, Elmer Layden, Harrj- Stuhldreher and Jimmy Crow­ley. 

Father James McManus, C.S.C., 59 years old, retired teacher of mathe­matics and former rector of Walsh and of Corby halls, died on November 29 in the Communitj' Infirmary at Notre Dame. Bom in Ireland Father McManus was ordained in 1906. The funeral Mass and burial were at Notre Dame. 
Brother Conrad, C.S.C., 76 years old, died in the Community Infirm­arj' on December 13. He returned to the campus four years ago after spending most of his life as a reli­
a, ious in Texas. 
A returned mailing piece brought word of the death of Francis L. Mallon, ex. '29, of Chicago. 
William N. Bergan, ex. '98, long a prominent attorney in South Bend aiid long a close friend of the Univer-. sity and the Community, died in South Bend on December 19. Mr. Bergan was the father of William J., ex. '28, John, '31, Paul, ex. '36, and Cornelius, C.S.C., a present student in the University. He was the father-in-law of Larry (Moon) MuUins, '31, and the brother-in-law of Father Cornelius Hag^ertj-, C.S.C, '06. 
The solemn funeral Mass was cele­
brated in St. Joseph's Church, South 
Bend, by Father Hagterty. 
The sympathy of the -Association is extended to Father Kemdt Mealy, C.S.C., '15, and Tom Healy, ex. '15, on the death of their mother on De­cember 13 in Fort Dodge, Iowa. Father Healy celebrated the funeral Mass and Father Charles Doremus, C.S.C, and Father James Connerton, C.S.C, were present from the Uni­versity. 
Harry Cozad, '36, Rock Island, Illi­nois, was a son-in-law of Mrs. Healy. Harry's father died on December 6 and Father Healy celebrated the funeral Mass on December 9. 


Personals 
Before 1880 secretary: Hon. T.H.Cal­lasher, Fitchburff, Mass. 
1880-1885 Secretary: Prof. Eotert M. Anderson, Circleffille, Ohio. 
1886 Secretary: Michael O. Bums, 338 S. Second St., Hamilton, Ohio. 
1887-1888 Secretary: J. L. Hcineman, Connersvilfe. Indiana. 
1887 GOLDEN ANNIVERSARY RE-UNION June 4, 5, 6 
1889 Secretary: P. E. Burl<e, 301 Camp New Orleans, Louisiana. 
* 
1890-1893 Secretary: Louis P. CHiute, 7 TJniv. Ar., Minneapolis, Minn. 
|S94 Secretary: Huch A. O'Donneli, 1 W. 67th St., New York City. 
* 

1895 Secretary: Eustace C?ullinan, Sr., 860 Phelan Bide:.. San Francisco. Calif. 
1896 Secretary: William P. Bums, 327 Willard Ave., Michigan City, Indiana. 
1897 Secretary: Rev. J. A. MacNamara. St. Jos. Sanitarium, Mt. Clement, Mich. 
Father MacNamara will soon launch his campaign to bring the members of the class of 1897 back to the campus on June 4, 5 and 6 for their 40th anniversary re-union. He is already preparing his ammuni­tion, and will get under way with the first volley early in January. He expects a quick surrender. 
* 
1898 Secretary: WUliam C. Keder. 9th & Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati, Ohio. 

-lOOO Secretary: Dr. Joseph F. Duone, 418 xaaa j^aerson Blvd.. Peoria. HI. 
1900 

iqnl Secretary: Joseph J. Sullivan, 1300, 
•"^ 139 N. Qark St.. ChicaEO, HI. Father George Marr, C.S.C., head of the Department of Religion in the University and rector of Walsh Hall, was recently appointed Notre Dame's delegate to the 33rd Eucharistic Con­gress to be held in Manila in Pebi-u­ary. Father Marr will leace South 
Bend on January 6 with a party from Indianapolis. 
* 

1902 Secretary: C. C. Mitchell. 110 S. Dearborn St.. Box 3. ChicaEO, HI. George "Studie" Litis and Father John Farley, C.S.C., bad a joyful re­union in Tucumcari, New Mexico, on December 1 when the Notre Dame special train, en route to Los Angeles, stopped in the New Mexico city for 20 minutes. The two former team­mates on Notre Dame football teams had not seen eacb other since their campus days together. John H. Nee­son, '03, also aboard the train, joined the re-union, too. 
Father Farley was the chaplain for the Southern Cal trip. Mr. Lins is in the broomcorn business in Tu­cumcari. 
* 

iqn9 Secretary: Francis P. Burke, 904 xaM^ Trust Co. Bldst.. Milwaukee, Wis. 
1904 Secretary; Robert Proctor, Monger 
* BldB., Elkhart, Indiana. 
* 

1905 Secretary: Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. X0W» j^^^iig St, ChicBgo, HI. 
* 

1906 Secretary: Thomas A. Laliy, 811-13 Paulsen Bide., Spokane, Wash. 
M. A. "Mike" Otero, of Gallup, New Mexico, was recently the Repub­lican candidate for United States sen­ator in his state, but, like so many others, went down under the Roose­velt landslide. M. J. McGuinness, ex. '08, who visited with him not- long ago, sent to Father Burns higWy fav­orable reports on Mike's ability and popularity. 
* 

1907 Secretary: Rev. Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind. A recent newspaper clipping shows Ambrose O'Connell, executive assist­ant to the postmaster general, with James A. Farley and the Lord Mayor of Dublin, aboard an Irish jaunting cart on the occasion of the visit of the Farley party to Ireland. 
* 

1908 Secretary: Frank X. Coll, Bulkley Building:, Cleveland. Ohio. 
* 

1909 Secretary: E. p. Clcary. Notre Dame, Indiana. The John W. Schindlers received a new electric refrigerator for Christ­
mas. The Editor enjoyed (?) seeing John hold the lucky number at a the­ater drawing for the handsome gift December 21. It pays to be a good District Governor in these parts. 
A lovely Christmas card from Frank Walker brings to mind the note that most of you probably al­ready have read, that Frank and Mrs. Walker were among the guests at the luncheon of President Roosevelt and Cardinal Pacelli, in Hyde Park. 
* 

1910 Secretary: Rev. M. L. Moriarty, 1900 Euclid Ave., Qeveland, Ohio. Bill Schmitt, of Portland, Oregon, caught up with Jim Costin, South Bend Neics-Times sports editor, v.'hen they were both in Los Angeles for the Southern Cal game. They had not seen each other for more than 25 yeai-s. The S.C. game was the lirst Notre Dame game Bill had seen in many years. 
* 

1911 Secretary: Fred Steen, 1666 First National Bank Bid?., Chicaso, HI. 
* 

1912 Secretary: B. J. Kaiser. 324 Fourth St, Pittsburch, Pa. 
1912 SILVER ANNIVERSARY RE-UNION June 4, 5, 6 

1913 Secretary: James J. Devitt 921 En­gineers* Bids-, Cleveland, Ohio. 
1914 Secretary: Frank H. Hayes, 406 Bank of America Bld^., Anaheim, Cal. 
1915 Secretary: James E. Sanford. 1624 Farwell Ave., Chicaso, HI. ' 
1916 Secretary: Timothy P. Galvin. First Trust Bids., Hammond, Ind. 
1917 Secretary: Edward J. McOsker, 104 
S. Union St.. ElKin. HI. Eddie McOsker is Continuing to get fine results in his campaign to make the twentieth anniversary re-union, on June 4, 5 and 6, the biggest and 
best. Here are recent letters ad­dressed to him. 
Lawrence Welch, 23 West Ohio Street, Indianapolis writes: 
"Glad to hear from you even if it was only a form letter. I will be there barring accidents. Rather im­agine the other Seventeeners will be there—Scott, Mahaffey, etc. 
"Wonder if you have Brush Ma­honey's address. Have not seen nor heard from him for years. Hear at least once a year from Corcoran who is with the State. Highway Commis­sion in Springfield, Illinois. We three were the C.E.'s in case you do not i-emember. 
"I am, and have been since the late war. in the real estate business. 
How is journalism? Or did you also abandon your profession, thereby failing to take the vow of poverty. 
"Contract bridge is one of my hob­bies, pastime, bad habits or what have you. Am captain of the I.A.C. team here which now holds the Team-of-Pour national championship won at Chicago last December. Will return to defend it next week—^December 3. Have about as much chance of re­peating as a golfer. If you are near Chi on that date, come up to the Stevens and see how it is done. Ely Culbertson finished a nice second last year. 
"Some game against Northwestern Saturday! They sure have the old time pep. See you in June.". 
[Ed's note: The latest clipping available in the Alumni OflSce tells that Mr. Welch and his teammates were tied for fourth place in the championship matches, with one day left to play.] 
Chubby Corcoran writes: 

"Was pleased to receive your let­ter of October 20. You can rest as­sured that I am making every effort to perfect plans whereby I can attend the Commencement of 1937. 
"How are you, and how have you been? Once or so a year I get into your city, so perhaps I may see you in Elgin sometime this Winter. 
"I was glad to read in the AiUJI-NUS that Royal Bossbanl would be back. Have you heard from Shana­han, Welch or Mahoney? I do not correspond with any of our class­mates, but I could easily contact them if it would help you any." 
Brian Odem, 205 Federal Building, Houston, Texas, writes: 
"I have before me the November issue of the ALUMNUS, and I note that you have you have sent out a 'call' for 'Rebel' Johnny Campbell and Matthew Trudelle and others. Those names have brought me to life and prompted this letter to you. 
"Through the year I've thought often of all the '17 men, and, being way off down here in Texas, I've had practically no contact with them, 
"I see Elgin is still home for yon. If I remember correctly there are a few other '17ers from there. A Kelly or so, as well as a few Tobins. Tell them hello. 
"I have been with this office since 1933 in the capacity of an assistant 
U. S. attorney. I get to see Emmett Walters quite frequently. He's city editor of the Houston Chronicle, one of the large afternoon dailies. 
"I would like to bet some of the gang that I have more candidates for 
N.D. than they have. My score is six boys and one for St. Mary's, We are all planning on making the 20th re-union in June. 
"I was in Washington, D. C. last December and had a very pleasant visit with Jim Hayes, and with Dutch Bergnian out at Catholic TJ. . . . " 
* 

291S Secretary: John A. Lwnmer, 1110— Sib Ave., S., Sscaiiaba, Mich. 
* 

291 9 Secretary: Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce Street, Gary, Indiana. 
* 

1920 Secretary: Lao B. Ward. 1012 Black Bide, Los Anceles, Calif. Francis J. Clohessy, of Waveriy, New York, becomes district attorney of Tioga County, on January 1 for a three-year term. He was elected in November without opposition, receiv­ing the Eepublican and Democratic party nominations and the endorse­ment of the other parties. 
Grover Malone, South Bend, is the new county surveyor in St. Joseph County as the result of the November elections. The former football star, taking office the first of the year, will have as his chief deputy Tom Du-Mont, ex. '36, also of South Bend, who spent a year at Notre Dame be­fore finishing up at Purdue. 
1921 Secretary: Dan W. Duffy, 1600 Term­inal Tower, Qeveland, Ohio. 


nnsiiiu 
IN THE BAHAMAS 
Winter haven of two continents — so much, so near, and for so little! Dtiiing the months of January, February and March no less than 48 cniises will leave New York on trips which visit Nassau — one almost every day! Round trip rates as low as $70. From Boston, cruises sail every other week—6 days from $150. From Miami, two hours by air (daily service —$35 round trip) and overnight af steamer (as low as $19.50 round trip). 
For ^tU information see your traveiasent or 

nnsiflu, BiiHniniis 

INFORMATION BUREAU 
30RodcefeUerP]ala,N.Y.,COIumbus5-i213 or DcTclooment Board. Nassan, Bahamas 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1922 Secretary: Gerald Aahe, Bulblo Atb­letic aab , Buffalo, New York. 
1923 Secretary: Paul Caatner. Edwaidi Homemobile Co., South Bend. Ind. 
Laurens Cook, formerly of Decatur, Illinois, now of Chicago, was one of the principal speakers at the recent convention of the Indiana Hotel Op­erators in South Bend. He discussed 
•the "Illinois Hotels Foundation." * 
1924 Secretary: J. F. Hayes, Wm. F. Ped­rick & Co.. Emp. State Bldi., N.Y.C. 
* 

1925 Secretary: John W. Scallan, 79 E. Adams St, Chicaso, Dl. 
1926 Secretary: Dr. Gerald W. Hayes, 86 Hawthorne Ave., East Oranse, N.J. Two memorial poems by Professor Norb Engels, former Green Bay resi­dent, appear in the newly published "Anthology of Wisconsin Poets." One poem commemorates the late Father Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, the other, the late Professor Charles Phillips. Some of the work of Pro­fessor Phillips, himself a native of Wisconsin, is included in the book. 
1927 Secretary: Edmund DeClerq, 8118 ' Ellis Ave., Chicai-o. HI. 
Paul Beretz, new secretary of the Washington, D.C. club, has been in the capital for the past year and a half, representing the Standard Sta­tistics Company, New York. Previous­ly, he had been in the New York of­fice of the same company for five years as an analyst of public utility securities. 
Paul reports that his brother Charles, also of '27, is selling Buicks in Westchester County New York, and living with the "folks" in Yon­kers. Charlie and the Managing Editor discussed old Badin days at the re­cent New York Club dinner-dance following the Army game. 
Probate Judge Malcolm Hatfield, of Berrien County, Michigan, dis­cussed "Crime and Its Remedy" in a recent talk before the Woman's Club of Three Oaks, Michigan. 
Joe Boland, line coach, was to join the South Bend Tribune radio stations WSBT-WFAM on January 1 to take over the broadcasting duties of Jim Britt, sports and feature announcer, who left to join the staif of WBEN in Buffalo, New York. Joe formerly broadcast sports for WCCO in Min­neapolis and did some announcing for WSBT-WFAM in 1934. 
Britt, considered by many in the South Bend area to be the finest football announcer in the business, had broadcast practically all Notre Dame football games for the past two years and was exceptionally popular in South Bend and on the campus. He is a graduate of the University of Detroit. 
January, 1937 

1928 Secretary: Louis Buckley, 718 E. Corhy St., South Bend, Ind. Eddie Collins, driven to the Uni­versity of Arizona field in Tucson when the team practiced there en route to Los Angeles, visited with the team from his invalid couch. After spending the Summer in Chica­go Eddie is back in Tucson for fur­ther treatment. 
* 

1929 Secretary; Joseph P. UcNamara. 231 Wisconsin Street, Indianapolis, Ind. Paul C. Bartholomew, associate professor of politics in the Univer­sity, is author of "A Manual of Amer­ican Government," a text for political science students. Occupying 131 pages the book contains 13 chapters, as well as an appendix, charts and a special listing of federal administra­tive divisions. Opposite each page of the text is a blank page for stu­dent notes. 
John Niemiec, football coach at Columbia College, Dubuque, Iowa, for the past three seasons, recently resigned to enter business in his home town, Bellaire, Ohio, and coach foot­ball on a part-time basis in Bellaire high school. 
George N. Beamer, South Bend, newly elected prosecuting attorney in St. Joseph County, has named as 
..Q 


OLIVER HOTEL 
mM


Ssi'iHlBiil 
Mil" 
Noted for Hospitality Refinement Quality Foods Excellent Cuisine 
Attractive Banquet, Bail and Reception Rooms 
All service reasonably priced 

A. B. ABBOTT, Manager South Bend, Indiana 

his deputies Wilford V. Walz, '25, and James E. Keating, '29, both of South Bend, and Spencer Walton, '35, of Mishawaka. , 
* 

1930 Secretary: Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 
Kenneth St.. New Kerainston. Pa. Dr. H. H. Rodin, South Bend, who did his pre-med work at Notre Dame before taking his medical course at Indiana University, is the new deputy coroner in St. Joe County. 
Edward T. Yorke, M.D. announced recently the opening of his offices for the practice of medicine and surgery at 516 North Wood Avenue, Linden, New Jersey. 
ingj Secretary: John Bersran, 828 E. Col-tax Ave.. South Bend. Ind. Jack Chevigny, who did not seek reappointment as football coach at the University of Texas, was recently chosen by Governor Allred as an at­torney in the Texas tax commis­sioner's office. 
Manny Vezie, assistant to Tom Lieb at Loyola in Los Angeles, es­corted a section of the Irish football party through some of the movie stu­dios after the recent S.C. game and introduced the boys and gals to some of the biggest movie celebrities. 
* 
]Q^2 Secretary: Herbert Giorgia 9005 188th St. Hollia. L.!.. New York. 


1932 FIVE-YEAR RE-UNION June 4, 5, 6 
Antonio R. Diaz, Calle 60 No. 337, Merida, Yucatan, away dff in the southeast comer of Mexico heard perfectly on November 21 the broad­cast of the Northwestem-Notre Dame 

ijcrux (jii£/iti 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
game as relayed by the short wave station of KDKA, Pittsburgh. He reports: "I heard the game perfectly, just as if I were in South Bend or IVIishawaka." 
Joe Petritz reports on a couple of the '32 boys in Los Angeles. George Bentley Ryan is practicing law in the Edison Building, and John Skeehan is with Spang, ChaUant & Co. in the Transamerica Building. John had just moved to Los Angeles from Pitts­burgh. 
* 
1933 Secretary: Donald Wise, 110 Pleasant 
St.. Jolief. 111. John Barrett wrote from Fort Peck, Montana, in late November that he was leaving for a five-weeks' va­cation in Alexandria, Louisiana. He expected to return after the holidays to his job as steel inspector. He had been at Fort Peck since last April and expected to remain there until the Fall of 1937. 
Joe Hofmann, in a grand letter from La Salle Military Academy, Oakdale, Long Island, New York, sends news about some of his class­mates. Joe had seen Art Lavery, of Brooklyn, Francis X. Fallon, of New Rochelle, Charlie Quinn, of Glens Falls, and John Doran, of Akron, Ohio at the Army game. Charlie is working in the Big Town, but had been in Glens Falls a good deal re­cently because of the death of his father. 
John Doran had been on the cam­pus for the Ohio State game, accord­ing to Joe. He gave Joe interesting news of Mike Stolley, also of Akron. 
Professor Kervick reports On two of his architectural alumni: 
Robert Heitger is with McGuire and Shook, architects of Indianapolis. 


unXL eynAcru 


TRUE BLACKHAWK HOSPITALITY 
as Tomorro*. Completely modernized. Coffee Shop and distinctive Walnut Roc 
BLACKHAWK HOTELS COMPANY 
III 

Charles J. Medland is the resident office manager at Charlottesville, Vir­ginia for James Barnes, contractor. He has complete charge of the con­struction of post offices in Virginia, West Virginia and North Carolina that this firm is building. This rep­resents well over a million and a quarter dollars, so it is quite an ac­complishment for one out of school about four years. 
J934 Secretary: James Uoscow. 2320 N. 
Lawndale Ave., ChieaKo, SI. 

John Scannell, head of the Phy Ed Department, gave us the correct dope on Norman Wietig. He is direc­tor of physical education and coach in Immaculate Conception high school, Trenton, New Jersey. The December ALUMNUS had Norm in a Cleveland high school. 
Ray Brancheau is accomplishing important things as head coach at New Mexico State, according to the nomads returned from the Southern Cal trip. He has turned out three winning teams in a row and is very highly thought of throughout the state. 
That other halfback, Nick Lukats, is also doing exceptionally well, ac­cording to all the HoUjrwood authori­ities. Nick has a seven-year contract and his next picture will be "College Holiday," with Bums and Allen, Jack Benny, Mary Boland and others. He did a grand job of showing the Hoos­iers around HoUjrwood and generally entertaining them through the S.C. week-end. 
BOOK MANUSCRIPTS WANTED 
on all subjccb. Wriic for free booklet. MEADOR PUBLISHING COMPANy 3S4 Newbury St Dcpt SI Boston, Muuchusctts 
LAW DIREQORy 
Notre Dame men practicing law, not listed in the December, 1935, AtUMNUS, send in your names and addresses at once for new Directory. 
STUDENT RELIGIOUS SURVEY 
Alumni wishing to receive the Student KeUgious Survey just published may do so by writing Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind. 








