The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
JftiS bo Oft ig ^ ^
f>p 
*«'^en from th^Mb ' 
rary 
2> • 
^^ 

lutlltlttl 
c 

^ iWerrj) Cfiristtmas; 
In All That It Means to the Men of Notre Dame 
3a 

(Eleben ^0. Waxtt 
1932 

To Some Four Thousand of the Fold— 
Don't let the Editor's pitiable optimism fool you! Don't be scared out by lawsuits and foreclosures! Don't set absent-minded! Don't stall! 
Don't substitute! 
Don't ask your wife! 
Don't consult your banker! 
Don't go to a fortune teller! 
Don't think for a minute that this is funny, to us! 
If Your Dues Aren't Paid Yet 



SEND FIVE DOLLARS 
COMMENT 

Organization, which was one of the many keys to the national wealth when times were good, is suffering now that the bill for dues assumes the proportions of a night club check. Or perhaps organization is not suffer­ing, but, like many other institutions of prosperity, resuming rationality. 
The occasion for this outburst is the recent conference of the National Catholic Alumni Federation on social justice, held here at Notre Dame. (And a cold in the head that makes me fee! very much like telling the truth.) 
Almost every delegate to the Con­ference had a different organization in mind that, properly supported by the Catholic alumnus, could effect the reforms proposed. 
The ALUMNUS does not question for a minute the merits of any of these organizations. That is precisely the trouble. 
The Catholic alumnus takes his place in a community. He imme­diately becomes a member of a par­ish, with all of its practical Cath­olicity and the material support which that implies. Then, he faces the Holy Name, the Knights of Co­lumbus, Society of St. Vincent de Paul, and similar Catholic organiza­tions in addition to the social and professional -affiliations which, in most communities, are practically essential to a successful career. 
There is Catholic literature. 
There is his Community Chest, or a similar civic philanthropy. 
And, in the nature of Catholic training, there is usually in short order a family to support. 
Equipped by education and desire for a position in the van of activities, the youthful alumnus finds that the economic system has not made simi­lar provision. He is very naturally inclined to resent this artificial abyss between his capabilities and his abilities, an abyss seemingly bridged more easily by those less gifted intel-
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor ^ 
The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame. Notre' Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is S2,00 a year: the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $o.00 include a year's subscription to THB ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923. at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame. Indiana. 
JIEJIBER OP THE ASIERICAN ALU.MNt COUNCIL , 
JlEMBEK OP THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana JAMES E . ARJISTRONG, Secretanj-TreasuTer 
ALUMNI BOARD 
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C, '90 

Honorary President CLARENCE MANION, '22 
President TIMOTHY P. GALVIN, '16 ­
First Vice-President JAMES E . SANFORD, '15 --­
Second Vice-President 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 

Director JOHN F . O'CONNELL, '13 
Director ROBERT E . LYNCH, '03 --­
Director HUGH A. O'DONNELL, '94 
Director GEORGE HIGGINS, '32 --­
Director FRANK H. HAYES, '14 . -. (ex officio) Director 
lectually. If he were not the alumnus of their alumni associations, they of a Catholic college, we might say could exercise fully those advantages that his trouble is Pride. which the accident of education 
brings to them. 
But whether it is actually one of So, with all due respect to existing the seven deadly sins or not, a mental organizations and recognizing the barrier does arise which keeps the laudable ambitions of those in the average young Catholic from answer­process of formation, the ALUMNUS ing even that simple requirement cannot but feel that more organiz.-i­

which so baffles the older leaders in tion in existing organizations is the these movements: Why won't they at solution. 
least say whether they are for or against ? Let the existing societies adjust themselves to attract and enlist those 
If the Catholic Church could re­logically in their scope who are not ceive the unified support of the laity now on their records. 

in temporal as well as in spiritual matters, most of the need for outside Let them make provision f-sr the 
societies would disappear. 
young men.' (The ALUMNUS is sent to all our graduates, whether they If the laity would support those are able to pay their dues or not. The societies which already exist, and, as policy doesn't reek of efficiency, it is stated above, have unquestionable true, but if the young men of Notre merit as demonstrated in their works, Dame fail us, it will not be because there would be little need for further we have not tried.) 
machinery. And if the alumni of Catholic col­If you don't think the above holds leges would realize the potentialities true, or if you do, let me know. 


BOARD OF LAY TRUSTEES 
So. Bmd TrUiiiiic Pholo 

Shown above are members of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University of Notre Dame together with the Ex Officio members, officers of the University and the Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, as they appeared at the annual board meeting held Friday, Nov. 11. 
Seated (left to right): A. R. Erskine, South Bend; Reverend James A. Burns, C.S.C, Provincial; Edward N. Hurley, Chicago, 111.; James J. Phelan, Boston, Mass.; Warren Cartier, Ludington, Mich.; Eeverend Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, pi-esident of the University. 
Standint) (left to right): Brother Ephrem, C.S.C, treasurer of the University; H. A. Smith, South Bend; F. W. Lloyd, University comptroller; George 5L Anson, Merrill, Wis.; C. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wis.; Clement C Mitchell, Chicago, 111.; E. J. Doyle, Chicago, 111.; Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago, 111.; Frank C. Walker, New York City. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. XI. DECEMBER, 1932 No. 3. 
The Social Challenge 
(A Sermon by the Rev. Joseph Husslein, SJ., head of the department of Sociology of St. Louis University, general editor of the Science and Culture Series, books by outstanding Catholic authors on topics of vital Catholic import in the scietices and culture, himself an eminent author and scholar. The sermon ivas preached at the Mass opening the one-day conference on Social Justice in the Economic Crisis held at the University of Notre Dame, Sunday, Nov. 20, under the auspices of the Alumni Association as a part of a tiational concentration of Catholic college thought in this direction by the National Catholic Alumni Federation, of xvhich the Notre Dame Association is a member and of which 
the Editor of the ALUJINUS IS vice-president and director for the North Central 
More than two score years before the momentous encyclical on the Con­dition of Labor had issued from the pen of Pope Leo XIII, a great Cath­olic champion, Bishop William Em­manuel von Ketteler, had begun his impressive struggle for human rights in Germany. 
Like Hamlet he knew full well that the times wherein his lot was east were out of joint. Economic oppres­sion and radical upheavals were con­\Tilsing Europe. Around him he sav/ the misery of the masses, the corrup­tion of youth in factory life, and the restless agents of Socialism plying their self-appointed task of sowing revolution and plucking the faith from the hearts of the working classes. Godless radicalism was pre­paring to come to grips with the God­less liberalism which had begotten it. 
-A.11 this Ketteler beheld and he re­alized his responsibility. The times were out of joint, but he did not re­gret that on him devolved the task, to do whatever lay in his power to set them right. He was one of Europe's foremost and profoundest thinkers, but he was no less a man of action. Above all he trusted in God, and the justice of his cause made him invincible. 
So far from regretting, for his own sake, the conditions into which he had been bom, he rejoiced because of the possibilities they afforded. In the confusion and the struggles on all sides about him, he saw a providen­tial opportunity given to the Church, since with her alone, as he unhesita­tingly affirmed, and as the Sovereign Pontiffs after him have constantly re­iterated, must rest the one and only solution of the social problem. 
He loved the very wrestlings of his age; its high-sounding watch-words of fraternity, equality and liberty, however misguided men were in their interpretation and application of them. Rightly understood these were high ideals, and none too high for men redeemed by the Precious Blood of Christ. But one way lay open for their realization, and that was return to Him who had brought these ideals into the world and who alone had most perfectly taught them by Hi.s own example. 
"I hear the cry to hold out a help­ing hand to our poor suffering brother," he exclaimed, "and who, if he has not plucked out both his eyes can deny that his need is great, and who that has not torn the heart out of his bosom can fail to join with all his soul in this cry for help ?—and I see avarice and covetousness increase, and pleasure-seeking grow more and more." 
But if this was true of the rich then, even there before him, as he spoke those very words, yawned the open graves of two representatives of the people brutally slain by a fu­rious mob for their free public utter­ances. "I hear the cry for liberty," he said, "and before me I see men murdered for having dared to utter an independent word." This, too, we ourselves have lived to witness in the Russia of our day. 
Yet Ketteler rejoiced, and his joy was sincere, that he had been born into just such an age. It was for him a challenge — a challenge which he eagerly welcomed and joirfully accepted. It was a challenge, not to him personally only, but to the whole Church, her episcopate, her clergy and her laity, to prove by their ac­tions the truth of their Faith. 
It w^as the same challenge, although under another form, which in a more direct way was flung at Ozanam and his little handful of Catholic fellov/ students by the Saint Simonians or Socialists of their day, amid the ma­terialistic student body of the Paris University. "Where are your works," they asked, "that prove your faith?" 
It was a perfectly fair question for them to ask. Ozanam pondered. It was all that for the present he really could do. But he took up the chal­lenge and his answer when it came, was—the Society of St. Vincent de Paul. It is an answer the world has never failed to understand. 
In still other ways and under other 

Region.) 
forms the same challenge comes to us. We read it in the despondent eyes of the millions of the unem­ployed, we hear it in the jibes flung at us by radical and infidel, we face it in the honest questioners who sin­cerely ask of us: What are vre do­ing to solve the social problem? "If the Church is powerless here," as Bishop Ketteler so rightly stated, "we must despair of ever arriving at a peaceful settlement," — indeed at any settlement that can be lasting and satisfactory — of the social problem. 
But the Church, we know, is not powerless. The Church does possess the indubitable solution, and it is clearly set forth before us in the two epoch-making Encyclicals on the Labor question given to the world re­spectively by Pope Leo XIII and Pope Pius XI—the Rerum Novanim, on the "Condition of Labor," and the Quad­ragesimo Aniio, on "The Reconstruc­tion of the Social Order." 
From the very opening of the first of these tw:o supreme doeuments rises up, as it were, the great threnody of toiling, suffering humanity. Never had its grievances been made more articulate and its just rights formu­lated witli such authority. In words, powerful and terrible, which none can ever forget who once has read them, Pope Leo XHI marshalls up before us the vast unorganized masses of his day, deprived of their natural right of association divinely given them, and surrendered, isolated and defenseless, to the greed and callous­ness of employers ruthlessly expoit­ing them under the reign of an unre­stricted competition. 
To this he adds the evil of rapa­cious usury, often condemned by the Church, but still practiced under new-forms by a relentless and grasping avarice, vulture-like battering on its unhappy victims. And finally, to com­plete the awful scene, there follows the last touch given to the picture— let me quote his own familiar words —^'the concentration of so many branches of trade in the hands of a few individuals, so that a small nura­ber of very ricli men have been able to lay upon the masses of the poor a voke little better than slavery it­self." (RN, 2) 
That was the social condition of the 
world as Pope Leo XIII saw it in the 
last decade of the nineteenth century. 
Writing forty years after. Pope 
Pius XI found that pauperism indeed 
had been lessened and the condition 
of the workingman improved and ren­
dered more equitable in many re­
spects, in the larger and more civi­
lized countries. Yet even here pro­
letarianism still abounded. "The im­
mense number of property-less wage 
earners on the one hand, and the su­
perabundant riches of the fortunate 
few on the other," he wrote, "is an 
unanswerable argument that the 
earth's goods, so abundantly pro­
duced in this age of industrialism, are 
far from rightly distributed and equi­
tably shared among the various 
classes of men." (QA, 24) 
No attack, let us understand, is ever made by either Pontiff on the system itself of wage contract, which is definitely declared to be not es­sentially unjust. But with his far­seeing vision and progressive Chris­tian ideals Pope Pius XI further ex­presses the desire that this contract should, "when possible, be modified somewhat by a contract of partner­ship, as is already being tried in var­ious ways to the no small gain both of the wage earners and of the em­ployers. In this way wage earners are made sharers in some sort in the ownership or management, or the profits. (Q A, 25) 
Here, then, we have an expression of that Catholic system, often known as Distributism. It promotes, as our highset social and economic ideal, a system which shall make feasible, by just and legal means, the acquisition of private ownership by the greatest possible number. This attainment of the widest distribution of ownership in productive property among the great masses of the people is the pur­pose Pope Leo XIII sets as the goal for all social efforts. If that one thing can be accomplished by us, then the day is won. Thus, briefly, the great Pope of the Workingman e.x­presses in memorable words, this ul­timate object of our strivings: "The law, therefore, should favor owner­ship, and the policy should be to in­duce as many people as possible to become owners." (RN, 35). That is the motto which should be inscribed as indelible letters on the walls of our schools of law and our chambers of legislature. 
With that principle once accepted and put into practice there has sounded the deathknell of Proletari­anism. With that clause fundamental in our law, Socialism is banished for­ever from the land. Men will not seek for common ownership when they themselves can be individual 
private owners of productive proper­
ty. It is the despair of ever attain­
ing to this, the hand to mouth exist­
ence, the haunting specter of unem­
ployment, the fact of Proletarianism 
in our midst, that makes men So­
cialists. 
It is not capital therefore that the 
Church denounces, but the individual­
istic Capitalism which rejects its so­
cial responsibilities and is based on 
the false philosophy of a godless Lib­
eralism. 
It was this doctrine wliich, from the beginning of the Industrial Revo­lution, and even before that period, denied to Labor its inalienable right of organization, and to the State its equally indefeasible right of social legislation — a right bound up with the duty to utilize it in defense of the toiling masses, securing for them both reasonable assurance of employ­ment and an equitable share in the fruits of industry whose production is so largely and indispensably de­pendent on them. Inventions are not meant to be to the profit of Capital only and the despair of Labor. 
Underlying the philosophy of Lib­eralism or Individualism is the false assumption — anathema to every Christian mind—^that man is absolute and independent owner of his proper­ty, without any recognition of the Will of God, which alone must ulti­mately rule all his actions, industrial and financial, no less than domestic and private. It is a wilful ignoring of the fact that in relation to God Himself he is not owner, but steward, of the talents entrusted to his hand.=., and that for every farthing he must render an account. Consequent on this same false philosophy is the re­pugnant principle which sees in in­dustrial investment but one sole pur­pose, the ultimately greatest profit of the owner. 
But Liberalism ha s no t paused there. Since the writing of the En­cyclical of Pope Leo XIII entirely new developments have taken place. It is often no longer the owner who is the central figure in this drama, but the men who, without invested funds, obtain power to control the property of others and freely manipu­late its stock to their ovm advantage. To the injustice possibly done to labor, is thus added too frequently the robber}' of the share-holding pub­lic, helpless in its own defense. 
"In the first place, then, it is pat­ent," writes Pope Pius XI, in force­ful words, "that in our days not only is wealth accumulated, but immense power and despotic economic domina­tion are concentrated in the hands of a few, and that these few are fre­quently not the owners, but only the trustees and directors of invested funds, who administer them at their good pleasure" (QA, 34). 
This power, as the Pope continues to show, becomes particularly irresis­tible, if the same men who thus con­trol the money, govern also the allot­ment of credit, and thus grasp in their hands the very soul of produc­tion, so that, in the forceful words of the Holy Father, "no one dare breathe against their will." 
This climax, he finds, was arrived at as the final result of limitless free competition. In the jungle war stim­ulated here those only emerged vic­torious who were strongest, and that often implied the most unconscionable and ruthless in their methods. 

But with that stage arrived at, free competition itself had passed away. Economic dictatorship ruled. It now sought control of the State it­self to abuse alike its resources and sovereign authority by perverting them to its own private utility in the fierce economic struggle, which grew more and more intense. Interference finally in international relation s ended in the clash between state and state, and made possible the catastro­phic climax of war. 
"Free competition is dead," wrote the Sovereign Pontiff, "economic dic­tatorship has taken its place. Un­bridled ambition for domination has succeeded the desire for gain; the whole economic life has become hard, cruel, and relentless in a ghastly manner" (Q.A., 35). 
Words truly terrible, and alas! ter­ribly true! 
Nothing less, therefore, is required, as Pope Pius XI indicates in the very title of his Encyclical, than a com­plete "Reconstruction of the Social Order" and a "Perfecting of it Con­formably to the Precepts of the Gos­pel." There lies the task, there is our labor! 
To enter into detail is not, of course, possible for us here. In my recent volume, "The Christian Social Manifesto," one of the first that was issued in the Science and Culture Se­ries, I have carefully interpreted, sec­tion by section, the two great Ency­clicals, that nothing might be left un­considered or unexplained in these documents, which in all our study of the social question must be a lamp to our feet and a light to our paths. I have named it the Christian Social Manifesto, in contradistinction to the Marxian Communist Manifesto. As in the latter is contained the pith and essence of all socialism, as a philoso­phy and as a movement, so in the two epoch-making Encyclicals, the Reiimi Novanim and the Quadragesimo An­no, is embraced the sum and sub­stance of Catholic teaching on the so­cial problem. To study and reason­ably to master these two documents is obviously the duty of at least every intelligent Catholic, and tenfold so of everyone who is to be an influence in the world about him. 
We cannot accept the philosophy of Liberalism; we cannot accept the phi­losophy of Socialism both of which, 
(Continued on Pa;;c 87) 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 71 
N. D. Host to National Catholic Alumni Federation Conference 
Leading Authorities in Field of Social Justice Discuss This Problem at University Sunday, Nov. 20; Twenty Catholic Colleges Represented; General Attendance High 
"Social Justice in This Economic Crisis" was the theme sent out by the executives of the National Catholic Alumni Federation for simultaneous meetings of the six regions of the Federation on Sunday, November 20. Notre Dame was elected host for the North Central, later extending an in­vitation to the South Central when that region cancelled its plans. James 
E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary of Notre Dame, vice-president of the Federation and director of the North Central region, was ex officio chair­man of the conference. 
Co-operation of speakers resulted in a splendid program at Notre Dame which contributed profound thought and stimulus for action to a represen­tative and large group. 
The Conference opened with a High Mass in Sacred Heart Church nt 

10:30. Rev. Joseph Husslein, S.J., St. Louis University, gave the excel­lent sermon which the ALUMNUS is privileged to reprint in this issue. Some thousand persons were fortu­nate enough to fill the Church for this outstanding feature. 
A luncheon in the University Din­ing Halls introduced the delegates, from the twenty Catholic Colleges represented, to this great institution within the University, and its excel­lent cuisine. The delegates were wel­comed to the University by Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C, Director of Studies and an alumnus of St. Mary's College, Kentucky, as well as Notre Dame. 
A very interesting round table on problems of alumni interest bearing in large part on the general theme at­tracted some two hundred persons to the excellently equipped auditorium of the University Law Building. 
Rev. J. \V. R. Maguire, C.S.V., brilliant president of St. Viator Col­lege, presided, and unified and added to the papers and discussions with the scholarship, originality and wit for which he is so generally known. 
A. J. Schweitzer, a graduate of Canisius College and a resident cf Chicago, spoke of the newly organ­ized Catholic League for Social Jus­tice, designed to attack in an organ­ized way the problem upon which the Notre Dame conference hinged. The persons behind the League and its principles and aims, together with its opportunities and obligations for Catholic college men, were outlined by the speaker. Copies of the two-great Encyclicals upon which raoit of the talks were based, and "Man or Money" a stimulating presentation of the social problem by Michaeel J. 
O'Shaughnessy of New York, were available for those attending the con­ference. (Alumni can secure these from the Alumni Office, by the way, if desired.) 
J. R. Maley, alumni secretary •if the University of Detroit, inaugu­rated a lively discussion with a pres­entation of the possibilities of action by the Catholic College alumni clubs. One of the major suggestions arising from this topic was the formation of a general Catholic college alumni group in smaller cities where not enough alumni of any one Catholic college reside to permit individual local clubs. 
Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, pre­fect of religion at Notre Dame, for­mer Dean of the College of Com­merce, outlined, largely in answering questions, the invaluable work he has done in the religious lives of students and alumni at Notre Dame. Father Maguire, in introducing Father O'Hara, characterized his work here as one of the great manifestations of constructive Catholicity .in the United States. Copies of the Religious Stir­veij of Alumni and Daily Relii/iow-! Bulletiji proved an interesting ex­hibit for the delegates. 
Rev. B. P. O'Reilly, S.M., until re­cently president of the University of Dayton, outlined briefly the economic problems and solution set forth in the interesting booklet by Rev. Francis ICunnecke, S.M., "The" Way Out and the Way Beyond," which has at­tracted the attention of legislators and those interested in economic re­form throughout the nation. 
As Father Maguire said in closing, the theme of the Conference, based upon the great pronouncements of the Popes Leo and Pius, left the field regrettably free from those disputes upon which a round table thrives. Nevertheless, this feature, as others during the day, advanced those in at­tendance a considerable distanc e along the broad highway so well marked by the Renim Novantm and the Quadragesima Anno. 
The banquet, piece de resistance in intellectual and physical nourish­ment, suffered from the economic ills the conference was designed to cure, emphasizing with limited attendance the need for relief. Those who were there, representing actual delegates, faculty members and St. Joseph Val­ley alumni, received a rare treat in a trio of talks hard to equal for con­tent or style. 
The ALUMNUS has extracted promises from the three speakers to submit manuscripts for publication in these pages if possible, so that their ability and effort and scholarly pres­entation may not be limited to even the enthusiastic reception of the seventy-five happy listeners. 

Mr. James Fitzgerald, executive secretary of the Society of Saint Vincent de Paul of Detroit, opened the evening, most appropriately, with "The Approach to Catholic Action." His thesis was the interpretation of the Encyclicals in the light of Scho­lastic philosophy and the need for knowing the social problem by know­ing its victims who e.xemplify it most strongly — the poor. Mr. Fitzgerald, enlisted for the occasion by imposi­tion, has a brilliant mind and a force­ful delivery, which, coupled with his position, produced a most worth while and stimulating address. 
E. A. Fitzpatrick, president of Mount Mary College, Milwaukee, and dean of the graduate school of Mar­quette University, followed Mr. Fitz­gerald's scholarly approach with an equally brilliant discourse on "The Political State and the Reconstruction of the Social Order," the principal thesis of which was the danger that exists of the rise of an absolutist State unless the principles of social justice are recognized by employers and the social problems solved with­out the intervention of government. Dr. Fitzpatrick has long been a dis­tinguished speaker in the educational and social circles of the Catholic laity, and his address at this conference merely added a leaf to his laurels. 
The program closed with one of the finest presentations of present social conditions, cause and effect and rem­edy, that the audience was unanimous in agreeing has been offered in the national crisis. To Notre Dame* men, no further proof is needed than to say that the paper was prepared and de­livered by Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C, for many years head of the department of economics at Notre Dame and now vice-president of the College of St. Thomas in St. Paul. Father Bolger astounded his friends by appearing with a manuscript, which proved by confession to be a condensation of three radio addresses which the Twin Cities listeners were privileged to hear recently. It is the historic pleasure of the ALUMNUS to report a promise from Father Bol­ger to permit a reprinting of this outstanding paper, in January we trust. 
John Ryan, Glee Club soloist, sang (Continued on Papre 84) 


WHO SUCCEEDS? WHO FAILS? 
(You may consider this an Editorial.) 
"// nature has not done so, a college education should make it impossible for a man ever to be, under any circumstances, a fool. This is a practical application of Newman's admirable dictum that a college education gives a man the power of making 'an instinctive just estimate of things as they pass before us.' We recognize tliat this may be a natural gift, but usually it is a product mily of much effort and years of training. It seems little enough to claim for a college education, but I believe it is a great deal." {The Value of a College Education!: A statement by the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., presented in a radio program on Sunday, November 27,1932.) 
Periodically the evaluation of a college education is undertaken. The latest instance is a reprint in the Scho­lastic, without comment, of an article from the Daihj Minncsotan. 
"It seems to be a favorite pastime of professors in schools of business to try to figure out whether or not it pays to go to college. From their reports, of course, it always pays. The most recent investigator is Professor James C. Egbert, of the Columbia university business school, whose report shows business school graduates earning annual salaries ranging from $3G0 to $100,000. 
"One item that is noticeably lacking in most attempts to determine the value of a college diploma is the amount of the expenditure necessary to get the diploma. In any business venture, in order to figure the ultimate profit one must begin with the original expense which must be deducted from the returns. Therefore, in figur­ing out the value of a college education, its cost should be considered and not just the graduate's salary. 
"The wide range between the salaries of graduates §360 to 5100,000, would indicate that a college education is not always a paying proposition. A college education is of value only in proportion to the graduate's ability to make use of such education. As many an unemployed graduate can tell you, college is no royal road to success. 
•RTiat you get out of college depends largely on what you bring to it. If you are the $100,000 man, you may require the University to help you attain the maximum of your potential ability. But if you are the $360-a-year man you are wasting your time and money in college." 
There you have one side of an old argument. Then you find something like this: 
The Streets of Old Manhattan 
PATKICK MACDOXOUGH 
The streets of Old Manhattan, They wander up and down. And east and west and crosswise. They span the little town. That in the days long vanished Was fief of Holland's crown. 
Who was it thus that plannned them, A-winding here and there? 'Twas Icbideren from Holland 
Without a fret or care; They led through brake and bracken When summer days were fair. 
And anxious mothers followed. And so the trampled clay Became the path and roadbed, The streets we tread to-day; The haunted ways and splendid That lure from far away. 
The streets of Old Manhattan, I know them ev'ry one; They're silver in the moonlight And golden in the sun; 
And o'er them at the dawning A veil of dreams is spun— 
The dreams that youth brought over Across the crested main; The purple dreams of glory, The gilded dreams of gain; And fairest—those of lovers Whose love was all in vain. 
Dear streets of Old Manhattan, Lie north, south, east or west; Though fine be foreign highways That royal feet have pressed; Though aimless seem your courses, I love you still the best. 
Who is Patrick MacDonough? In the Alumni Office records, he is Patrick J. Mac­Donough, Ph.B., '03, 7 State St., New York City. 
•/ In the words of a great man, a former president of Notre Dame: 
"Patrick MacDonough was one of the brightest, most Interesting and best loved of the men of his time. Mem­bers of the faculty especially were fond of Pat. His was a very beautiful life. No one within my remembrance had finer talent than Pat and his character was wholesome, unspoiled and saintly in his Irish way. All of us believe he could have become a big figure but he has devoted himself entirely to the care of the immigrants coming into the port of New York." 
He is probably much nearer $360 a year than $100,000. 
Is it failure? 

Is it success? 
Nieuwland Discovery Announced to Scientists In N. D. Meet 
Paint Process Features State Convention of Indiana Academy of Science; Other Notre Dame Faculty Members Play Prominent Parts In Program 
Discovery of a chemical substance 

from which a new non-corrosive lac­. quer or paint is made was announced November 18, by Rev. J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., '99, of Notre Dame, before the I n­diana Acad­emy of Science i n convention on the Notre 
FATIIEI: NiEuwLANn Dame campus. 

Describing the new compound as a synthetic drying oil, derived from acetylene. Father Nieuwland said it was more important commercially even than his discovery of a com­pound which resulted in the invention of Neuwland rubber last year. The new substance produces a lacquer which becomes waterproof, durable, able to stand acids and temperatures as high as 400 degrees when applied to wood, concrete, metals or other hard surfaces. 
The announcement was made at a sectional meeting of chemists attend­ing the academy's 48th annual con­vention which drew 200 Hoosier scientists to Notre Dame from all parts of the state. Two major discov­eries in the field of bacterial research also were contained in a paper pre­pared by Prof. James A. Reyniers, of Notre Dame, for delivery at another sectional meeting. 
An instrument known as the "micro manipulator," enabling the operator to isolate one bacterium from a field of millions of bacteria invisible to the naked eye is Prof. Eeynier's first con­tribution. The second is the announce­ment that he has developed guinea pigs free from bacteria of any kind, answering the old question of whether there can be life without bacteria. 
The academy program got under way officially "Thursday evening with a joint session of entomologists and taxonimists in Gushing hall of engin­eering at Notre Dame, but snow-blocked highways allowed only a few scientists to arrive in time for these preliminary meetings. An informal discussion of their work was held by the small group, with Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C, dean of the Notre Dame college of science, presiding. 
A business meeting of the acad­emy's executive committee was held following a dinner in the Oliver hotel. Registration for the convention prop­er was held the next morning, fol­lowed by a general session at which Dr. Femandus Payne, of Indiana uni­versity, Bloomington, president of the 
academy, presided. Father Wenning­
er made the address of welcome. 
Meeting in joint session with the 
St. Joseph valley section of the Amer­
ican Chemical society, chemists of the 
academy then heard an address by 
Dr. Cecil E. Boord, of Ohio State uni­
versity, one of the nation's most 
prominent organic chemists. Dr. 
Boord's lecture, illustrated with slides 
was of a technical nature, regarded 
by members of the academy as one 
of the most important on the entire 
program. His subject was "Relation 
of Certain Physical Properties of the 
Unsaturated Hydrocarbons to Their 
Molecular Structures. 
The scientists had luncheon in the university cafeteria at noon and re­sumed sessions at 1:30 o'clock, each branch of science meeting in a sep­arate hall to hear papers relating to its field. It was at the meeting of the chemistry branch that Father Nieuw­land's discovery, called SDO, an ab­breviation for synthetic drying oil, was formally announced. 

Chemically, Father Nieuwland said, SDO is known as a divinyl-acetylene derivative. It was discovered during the course of his researches on acety­lene and the primary compounds used in synthetic rubber synthesis. By con­trolled heating, the substance is "polymerized," yielding a clear, non­volatile oil. This oil is mixed with a thinner solution, such as coal-tar naptha, producing the lacquer. When certain pigments are added, it be­comes paint. Father Nieuwland, ex­plaining his discovery, says that it is an entirely new product, neither lac­quer nor paint, but that these words are the nearest to describe it. 
Tests made in the chemical labor­atories at Notre Dame and in the laboratories of the E. I. DuPont de Nemours & Co., of Wilmington, Del., which already has put SDO on the market, reveal that when the lacquer is spread on surfaces it dries within a few hours, forming a hard, brittle finish which resists water, acid, heat, fumes of all kinds, brines, lye and other corrosives. 
"It is still too expensive for gen­eral use as varnish or paint," Father Nieuland said today describing the compound. "At present a gallon costs about $7.50. But it is made with a catalytic process, which means that when factories have been built and the mass production of SDO organ­ized, it will be manufactured cheaply." 
Associates of Father Nieuland said that SDO applied to concrete steps in the Wilmington laboratories had out­
worn the concrete. It is so durable 
that ordinary pigments wear way be­
fore the oil. This makes it necessary 
at present to manufacture it only in 
its natural color, tan or blue, colored 
by blue indigo which is equally dur­
able. In the development of the prod­
uct the next important step, they said 
will be to find some substance which 
when added will make the lacquer 
plastic. 
E X p 1 a i n i n g his "micro-manipu­

lator," Prof. Reyniers said that for 
the present it is purely a research 
instrument. Its practical application 
is its ability to make possible the 
raising of pure strains, or pure cul­
tures, of bacteria. 
"It is hoped," the Notre Dame pro­

fessor said in demonstrating the 
instrument, "that with other instru­
ments suggested with this design 
physicians can make a quicker diag­
nosis of certain diseases. Micro-quan­
tities of the germ are used in the 
diagnostic tests, enabling much time 
to be saved over the usual cultural 
method. With this instrument we can 
inject a sample of the disease bacteria 
into an animal and make our diag­
nosis within several hours, while 
with the cultural method this diag­
nosis cannot be made sometimes for 
from 24 to 48 hours." 
The pressure of a button con­nected to minute pipettes, from two to five microns in diameter, and at­tached to levers, isolate a bacterium in Prof. Eeynier's instrument. A micron is one twenty-five thousandth of an inch. 
Discussing the guinea pigs freed from bacteria, the speaker said: 
"As far as I know ours at Notre Dame is the first practical applica­tion of this development. We use the guinea pigs as living cnltnre tubes to study the progress of disease changes when a pure strain of bacteria is in­serted into one of these animals. The disease develops free from help or hindrance from any other micro­organism. 
"Another application of this de­velopment is its important aid in the consideration of digestion. Our ability to i^ise these animals to maturity without bacteria, but with the substi­tution of foods which supply the miss­ing' bacterial elements, answers the question of whether bacteria are nec­essary to digestion." 
He described the way in which the animals are kept. 
"All animals whose mothers are normal are in a germ-free state in the womb. A caesarian section is used to get these animals a few days be­fore normal birth. They are then raised in a special cage which was developed at Notre Dame. This cage is sterile and admits a supply of ster­ilized air. All food given to the ani­mals is free from bacteria." 
Scores of technical papers in all branches of science were read by members of the academy, including several professors and graduate stud­ents of Notre Dame. 
A paper presented before the chem­istry section by George F. Henion and H. D. Hinton, in conjunction with Father Nieuwland, all of Notre Dame, described the production of higheer ethers. They are diiiicult to obtain commercially and the paper outlined the problem ef iinding a cheap method for their synthesis. Thomas H. Vaughn, also of the Notre Dame chemistry department, dis­cussed "Buoron Fluoride in Acetal Catalysis," in which he told of the catalytic conversion of acetylene into substances which have marked solv­ent properties. The results of re­searches by Father Nieuwland and Mr. Vaughn on the action of iodine on derivatives of acetyle also were presented. 
L. H. Baldinger, of Notre Dame read a paper in which he described the preparation of a chemical com­pound used in the manufacture of drugs to produce sleep. F. J. Sowa, of Notre Dame, reported partial re­sults of experimental research in "The Synthesis of Some Substituted Metacresols," involving compounds used in certain antiseptics. 
Other local scientists who appeared w ere Sister Mary Joseph Geise, grad­uate student at Notre Dame who read a paper in the botanical session on "The Indiana Species of Cyperus"; Sister Elizabeth Seton McDonald, also of Notre Dame, reading a paper in the same meeting on "The Ferns and Flowering Plants of St. Joseph Coun­ty"; Joseph A Toussaint, R. J. Spahr and R. R. Vbgt, of the Notre Dame chemistry department, reading tech­nical papers and Dr. Marcus W. Ly­on, Jr., of South Bend, prominent zoologist, whose paper was titled "A Second Specimen of the Least Weasel From Indiana." 
The science of entomology, or insect control, although only sixcy years old, has already won its spurs, according to Professor J. J. Davis, head of the entomology department of Purdue university. Addressing the entomology section of the academy at the opening Thursday afternoon he said that since 1870 controls for 75 per cent of the losses resulting from insect attacks have been made avail­able. 
Professor Davis said: "The value of entomological re­search for its direct application to 

control of destructive pests is evi­dent to everyone who has studied the problems but few realize that these studies yield a by-product which is of immense value to every citizen but probably more especially to the farmers of the nation. 
"These indirect benefits resulting from entomological researczh are very numerous, a few of which are as follows: 
"The value of rotation of cotton boll weevil control has re^'olution­ized cotton production of the southern states by providing a stimulus for crop rotation. The extensive and val­uable system of agricultural exten­sion was brought about because of its first and successful use in demon­strating controls for the cotton boll weevil; aside from the results of mos­quito control to eliminate malaria and yellow fever and permit the construc­tion of the Panama canal and the de­velopment of the New Jersey shore resorts, such control has resulted in the reclamation of tremendous acre­ages of valuable agricultural lands. 
"Recommendations for stable fly control have not only minimized losses from this pest but in addition have shown the way to reclaiming 250,000 acres of land in the state of Kansas alone. European com borer research has been responsible for the development of farm machinery im­provements of great value in Ameri­can agriculture, and in emphasizing cultural practices and com varieties which will undoubtedly add hundred.^ of thousands of dollars to the corn growers of the com belt; vapor-heal treatment to control bulb and tuber pests invigorates and stimulates the plants to much better and more rapid growth. The results of entomolo^cal research have repaid many times the cost of the work and in addition have contributed by perhaps equal or gieater amounts with indirect bene­fits. 
Dr. Marcus Ward Lyon, jr., of South Bend, was elected president at the closing business session of the convention following a dinner at Notre Dame Friday night. 
Dr. Lyon, a distinguished botanist and zoologist, in 1931 president af the American Society of Mammalo­gists, succeeds Dr. Femandus Payne, of Indiana university, Bloomington, in the academy presidency. The local scientist has been a member of the academy since 1922 and during the last year served as its treasurer. 
The academy voted unanimously to hold its 49th convention about Oct. 15, 1933, at Indiana university. Terre Haute and Butler university were un­successful bidders for the meeting. A resolution was unanimously adopted expressing appreciation and gratitude to the University of Notre Dame for the facilities and hospitality extended for this year's gathering. 
Although the convention officially closed Friday night for the three hundred Hoosier scientists gathered from all parts of the state, many re­mained to visit the exhibits of scien­tific work accomplished during the year by the junior academy, composed of high school boys and girls of In­diana enrolled in science clubs. Near­ly all branches of science were rep­resented in the symposium and elic­ited praise from the visiting academy members. 
A large audience was present Fri­day night at the public session of thf; academy in Washington hall, to hear the final address on the program by Dr. H. H. Newman, professor of zo­ology at the University of Chicago. His illustrated lecture was on "Men­tal and Physical Differences in Iden­tical Twins, Reared Apart." 
Reporting the results of a five-year study of 109 sets of twins to determine the relative importance of heredity and environment. Dr. New­man told his audience that "with re­gard to mental, temperamental and certain physical characteristics, the actual differences in heredity have been twice as effective as the actual differences in environment." 
"Identical twins are the product of the early division of a single embrj-o into two parts, each of which then developed into a whole individual," the zoologist said. "Fraternal twins are the result of the simultaneous fertilization of two eggs by two sprems, and hence are related exactly in the same way as are ordinary brothers and sisters. Identical twins are identical in their heredity, while fraternal twins have only half their identity in common." 
Dr. Newman added in his summary that although tentative conclusions are that the differences in heredity have been twice as effective as the differences in environment, this does not mean that heredity is twice as important in determining a person's total individuality as is environment. 
A device invented and operated by Eiffel G. Plasterer, teacher of physics in the Huntington, Ind., High school, drew the attention of scores of scien­tists throughout the afternoon in the physics section. It is a frame-like device, like the skeleton of a four-foot cabinet, which registers on a graph the harmonic curves of sounds. 
Professor 0. A. Behren, of Purdue university, chairman of the bacteriol­ogy section, discussed the properties and methods of handling vaccinia virus, the cultures used in vaccina­tions to prevent disease. He said that the benefits of smallpox vaccina­tion are scarcely realized. It should be mandatory by law, in Prof. Beh­ren's opinion, that every boy and girl in school be vaccinated against small­pox. 
Prof. E. G. Mahin of the University of Notre Dame was program chair­man for the convention. 

December 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
BOOK REVIEWS 
Wiener Saengerknaben 

Students, faculty, and alunmi of the St. Joseph Valley enjoyed one of those musical treats that dot the Uni­versity's entertainment year when the Wiener Saengerknaben, the Singing Boys of Vienna, stopped for a con­cert in the Gymnasium Nov. 14. The twenty-two little fellows, ranging from 9 to 13 years in age, gave a finished performance in opera, semi-classic and folk-songs that astounded the audience and brought encore after encore. The chorus was organized in the fifteenth century in Vienna and is the goal of the boy singers of that' cultured capital. An operetta in costume by Mozart, written while he was one of the Saengerknaben, featured the entertainment, but the most popular appeal to the audience was "Dixie" sung in English and "The Blue Danube Waltz," sung in German as the final encore. 
Publications Excellent 

The ALUMNUS wishes to call the attention of alumni to the high stand­ards of content and appearance which are being enjoyed this year by the Juggler, the Scholastic, Scrip, the Catalyzer and the Laxcijer. These publications provide powerful outlets for innumerable talents and it is pleasing to the University, and to the alumni who pioneered and sustained many of them for years, to see them properly utilized. 
Rhodes Candidates 

Three Notre Dame seniors, Ed Stephan, editor of the Scholastic, Joseph McCabe, editor of the Juggler (and Scrip last year), and Leslie Raddatz, editor of the Dome of '32, are candidates for Rhodes Scholar­ships. Stephan is the son of A. C. Stephan, '07, New York. McCabe is from Attleboro, Mass., and Raddatz from Shaker Heights, Cleveland, 0. 
Gilson Lectures 

Two lectures were given on Nov. 21 and 22, by Prof. Etienne Gilson, fa­mous social philosopher and a mem­ber of the faculty of the Sorbonne. The lectures were sponsored by the department of philosophy. 
The Keyes To Fresno 

A letter received by Registrar Rob­ert Riordan, '24, contains a statement from Mike Keyes, one-time student and News-Times staff member in that golden era of Notre Dame, and Netvs-Times, journalism. "If any of your friends should happen to be in the vicinity of Fresno during their visit to California for the game Dec. 10, be sure and tell them my address —3634 Balch Ave., or the Fresno Bee, and assure them that there will be a real Irish ceal mille failte for them in the Land of the Raisin." 
The Editor regrets that indisposi­tion prevents Eev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, from contributing the book reviews which have been so appreci­ated and enjoyed by alumni during the current year. From the best mo­tives, as well as the selfish, the ALUMNUS hopes that Father Cava­naugh is able to start the New Year happily. 
Having entertained Rev. Joseph Husslein, S.J., general editor of the Science and Culture series, books de­signed to provide the discriminating reader, the jackets say, with a Cath­olic literature expressive of the Cath­olic tradition of learning, it is a pleasure to record Notre Dame's par­ticipation in this series. 
Paul R. Martin, '09, is the author 
of "The Gospel In Action," a recent 
attractive volume of the series, pub­
lished by the Bruce Publishing Co., 
Milwaukee. 
The volume is a history of the in­fluence of the Third Order of St. Francis. In it, through painstaking research, exhaustive correspondence, and scholarly arrangement, the au­thor has gathered material hitherto widely scattered, and almost inac­cessible to the average student. 
In addition, as Father Husslein says, "The present work, however, is probably the only one published up to this time that specifically attempts to apply the principles of the rule of the Third Order Secular as a remedy for the basic social evils of our time." 

Sixteen chapters of the exquisite workmanship which those who know the author would expect are supple­mented by a comprehensive bibliog­raphy which is of inestimable value in itself for the field it covers. And in addition, the volume contains the Papal Encyclicals dealing with the Third Order, the Rule of the Third Order, and a Letter from Pius X to the three Ministers General. The 
Scholarship 

According to the midsemester re­port from the office of the director of studies the total number of students reported by the teachers as being de­ficient is 751. Although 333 were deficient in the College of Arts and Letters, this is but 28.7% of the to­tal enrollment. While there are only 82 deficient in the College of Science, its average is 34.4% of the total en­rollment. The Engineering course has the least number of failures in the undergraduate schools, 116; or 28.3% of the total enrollment. 
Last year at the midsemester, 13% of the total enrollment were placed on probation for having failed in more 
book is of value to informed Catho­
lics if from no other viewpoint than 
that of the compact yet comprehen­
sive presentation of the seven cen­
turies of achievement of the Third 
Order of which Leo XIII said, "My 
social reform is the Third Order of 
St. Francis." 
The Science and Culture Series 
entrusts its task, a brochure states, 
to authors selected for "scholarship, 
expert knowledge of the material he 
contributes, and his fine appreciation 
for what is, in the highest sense, sci­
ence and culture." 
Notre Dame is pleased, though not surprised, to find the scholarly Paul Martin among these contributors to a timely spread of the rich Catholic cultural heritage, too little known to Catholics generally. 
The fertile field of translation has been augmented by the recent pub­lication of Vols. I and II of "A Com­pendium of Theology." (B. Herder Book Co.) The books in the French are by the Very Eev. J. Berthier. The translations are by the Rev. Sid­ney Raemers, M.A, Ph.D., of the department of philosophy of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. 
Father Raemers has brought a number of valuable books of the French priest, founder of the Mis­sionaries of the Holy Family, to the English bookshelves. The two cur­rent volumes deal with essential doc7 trinal points of dogmatic and mor.-il theology, "together with the more important notions of Canon Law, Lit­urgy, Pastoral and Mystical Theol­ogy, and Christian Philosophy." 
Father Raemers, a graduate of St. Mary's, Baltimore, and Catholic U., has been at Notre Dame since 192S. He has found in Father Berthier's works much that is of real value in questions of theology and his trans­lations enjoy a practical value with­out the loss of scholastic merit or original contents. 
 Improved 
than a third of their work. This year only 7.4% have failed in one-third of their work. Because of the change now being made from the quarter system of probation to the semester system, no students are on probation in this second quarter of the schoolyear. But if the student on probation in the first quarter has 
at the end of the semester failed in a third of his work, he is liable to dis­missal at that time. This new ar­rangement has met with the approval of the faculty and the student body. It eliminates the discomfiture of the old explanation of nervous break­downs after the quarter exams. 

TWO MORE SONS OF NOTRE DAME 
Founds Philosophy Library 

William J. Corbett, Chicago, HI., by the gift of one thousand dollars, has created a foundation at Notre Dame to be known as the William J. Cor­bett Research Library of Philosophy. The work of collecting material for the Library has already been begun by Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C, '24, now taking advanced studies in Paris. Mr. Corbett is the father of William J. Corbett, Jr., '27. 
Wm. A. McGuire Outstanding 
A recent story carried news of fi­nancial reverses of William Anthony McGuire, former N. D. student, though the news value of financial reverses in this particular era might be questioned in Dr. Cooney's depart­ment. The following clipping indi­cates that Mr. McGuire is undaunted. (And his record of successes leads the Editor to suggest that you consult the Editorial page of this issue any­how.) 
William .\nthony McGuire, who has just finished doctoring the Al Jolson picture, "The New Yorker," and who last week completed the original story, adaptation, continuity and dialogue on "The Kid From Spain," has transferred his type­writer and creative ability to Univer­sal City. Several months ago, Carl Laemmle, Jr., signed a long-term con­tract with the noted playwright which covered not only writing and adapta­tion but eventually directing as well. 
McGuire started on this contract on Saturday. As his first task, Carl Laemmle, Jr., assigned him to adapt his own original story, the tentative title of which is "When the Time Comes." 
In addition to being the author of Lew Ayre's last picture, "Okay America," William Anthony McGuire is the author of the stage plays, "Six Cylinder Love," "Twelve Miles Out," "K 1 Were Rich," "It's a Boy," "Kid Boots," "The Three Musketeers," "Rosalie" and "Whoopie." Not such a bad record for a young fellow! In­cidentally, he wrote his first success­ful play, "The Heights," when he was only 18 years old. 
Alunmi Address Students 

Tim Galvin was one of the speak­ers, Pat Manion another, at the stu­dent rally before the Northwestern game. Their oratorical powers are obviously undiminished. Norm Barry and Frank Coughlin undertook what, at this writing, looks like an even tougher assignment when they spoke at the pre-Army rally. Both of Hunk's former team-mates contrib­uted plenty in their talks that ought to make the Aimy think Saturday of Saturdays some dozen years back. 
Since the last issue of the ALUM­NUS, we are.at the same time cha­grined and pleased to find two more sons of Notre Dame alumni at the University. One is Edward C. Smith, Jr., a freshman in chemical engineering, son of Edward C. Smith, 
E.E.
 '01, now an engineer in Harris­bufg. Pa. The other boy is Thomas 

H.
 'Nelson, second year law student, a son- of Hon, P. J. Nelson, LL.B. '83, judge of the district court, Dubuque, Iowa, a "rusher" on the famous foot­ball team of 1SS7, Notre Dame's fifst. 


A letter from Michael J. McCor-Tnack, '99, Memphis, comes as a re­sult of the fathers-and-sons of N. D. printed last jnonth: 
"Once in a while a fellow gets an un6.\pected thrill;—that's what I got a few minutes ago while glancing through the November ALUMNUS, when I turned to the page mentioning the names of Notre Dame alumni who are so fortunate as to have sons at­tending the University, and to find my son's name in the list. Boy-oh­boy! that's a thrill that I hope will come to you some day and many more of the Notre Dame men. 
"However, my son Donnell has the edge on these second generation fel­lows by still hearing thrilling stories of the Civil War days at Notre Dame from his grandfather, James M. Mc-Cormack, who was graduated from Notre Dame in 1867, and his uncle, Michael McCormack of Albany, Ga., who was the star pitcher for N. D. 
U. during "Pop" Anson's days. 
"We are really a Notre Dame fam­ily and I am happy to state that the fourth generation, my grandson, is now two years on the wav to South Bend ..." 


MEMBERS OF FACULTY SUMMER ABROAD 
It is the delayed privilege of the ALUMNUS to report the summer journeys of a number of members of the faculty. 
Prof. George Wack, '23, of the de­partment languages, spent four weeks of travel in Germany and six weeks of study there at the U. of Berlin. Prof. Wack replied on behalf of the American students to the address of welcome from the president of the University at the opening session. 
Prof. Pedro de Landero, '12, and his family, visited Mexico, their for­mer home. The Editor is still wait­ing for reports on a number of the 
N. D. men Prof, de Landero saw, but with many things to do, including a new honor, the presidency of the Lay Faculty club of the University, such information takes time to elicit. 
France was the goal of Prof. Francis W. Kervick of the depart­ment of architecture. Prof. Earl Langivell, instructor in French, and Prof. Camille McCole, assistant pro­fessor in English. 
Rev. Julian Sigmar, instructor in religion and philosophy, who received his education in Germany, a Ph.D. from Munich, pedagogy at Berlin, psychology at Hamburg, theology at Munich and Tubingen, returned to those familiar spots. 
Prof. Pasquale Pirchio, '25, assist­ant professor of Italian and drawing, took a group of students to Italy for travel and study. 


A NOTE TO ALL THE SAD YOUNG MEN 
Twenty-five Notre Dame alumni have attended the Harvard business school in the last ten years. The ALUMNUS is therefore reprinting an announcment from that source as a service to our alumni. 

The Harvard Business School an­nounces an extra session which will start Jan. 30, and continue to August 16, 1933. It is designed to meet the needs of college men graduating at midyears with a business career in mind but no present position in view, and of those recent college graduates who have not yet secured permanent positions. This action was recom­mended and approved by Mr. Walter 
S. Gifford, Mr. Jesse Isidor Straus and Mr. George Whitney. It is also approved by Mr. Walter C. Teagle, Chairman of the Share-The-Work Movement. They point out that facili­ties for constructive training in busi­ness must be made available this winter as a substitute for the demor­alizing effect of waiting around for jobs or repeated failures to get them. 
Students who attend the session will have the same classroom instruc­tion under the same faculty as the regular first-year class. They will be entitled to full academic credit,' thus enabling them to enter the second-year class next fall. Mid-year exam­inations will be eliminated. The extra session is open to college graduates and to those who have had e.ifecutive experience in business. 

Three Thoughts On Education 
By ALEXANDER G. EUTHVEN 
Pressident, University of Michigan 
lEolTOK's NOTE:—Dr. Ruthven, president of the University of MichiKan since 1929. has been connected with that institution in various capacities since I90G. when he became instructor in zoology and curator of the museum. After becoming head of the zoology department in 1927 he was made dean of administration in the university a year later, and finally president. He is a native of Iowa, where he was bom in 1882: he graduated from Morningside College in 1903 and receii-ed a Pb.V, degree from Michigan in 1306. The article is written for the ALL'ilxus as a member magazine of the American Alumni Council.] 
Once upon a time a distinguished teachers, to permit the student to Englisliman said in poetic language explore the several fields of knowl­that east and west can never be jux­edge, and it is good pedagogy for the taposed. In limited as well as in instructor to relate facts as they are broad applications this observation is presented. Neither of these methods erroneous and has caused much harm. should, however, be confused with East and west and north and south the third type of orientation—the have always met in some measure; broad sjTithesis of learning—as they each has borrowed from the others are when not used at the proper and none can be altogether indepen­times in mental growth. For example dent. Provincialism is only an early the plan of giving broad synthesizing growth stage of society. We may courses to beginning students is well return thanks to the spirit which wrong in that it invoK-es confusion is guiding the progress of civilization between orientation and initiation. An that in the educational field we are introductory course, no matter how coming to appreciate the unity of extensive, cannot properly be an mankind, even if our conscious con­orientation course. To become ori­tributions to the realization of the ented about something one must have concept are made too slowly and the something to orient, and the more sometimes even begrudgingly. of it the better. A conclusion can no 
more function as an introduction 
Three Essentials. The problems of than an introduction can serve as a education are not more than accident-conclusion. Again, just as training ly involved with differences in race in every discipline should be preceded and creed and geographic position. by a period of exploration, and should They do include such internal and provide .orrelations as well as facts, e.\temal factors as human nature, it should culminate in an orientation language, costs and two major needs course which not only places the of society—economy of time and subject in the general field of knowl­economy of money. I submit that edge but, as a part of the process, 
three essentials of an efficient educa­presents its history in a satisfactory tional program the world over are way. Knowledge and experience proper orientation for each student, 
form the background of a working progressive training, and thorough­
philosophy, but only adequately when they include the whole extent of going cooperation between institu­observation of the race. "Not to tions. 
know what has been transacted in 
1—Proper Orientation. It requires former times is to be always a child. 

no special keenness of observation to If no use is made of the labors of the 
discover the fragmentariness of our past ages, the world must always educational offerings. Although edu­remain in the infancy of knowledge." 
cators are criticized for this, the dis­This conclusion of Cicero is applicable unity is not only unavoidable but is to the intellectual growth of every bound to increase. It is part of the individual—the scientist, the artist, price we pay for progress. At the the mechanic, and the farmer. Man same time it is possible to do more being man, and knowledge being an than is being done to give the stu­acquired character, it will ever re­dent an appreciation of the unity of main true. 
knowledge. That teachers are be­ginning to see the need for correct­2—Progressive Training. When Iing the impression easily gained by say that training in a discipline the student—that the subjects of in­should culminate in an orientation structions are disconnected—is evi­course, I imply that the training is denced by the recent experiments in progressive. I am well aware of the orientation courses. 
fact that the fragmentation of edu­Orientation in the broad sense 
cation is often permitted to eliminate should be a continuing process and 
in large part any definitely graded have three aspects—exploration for 
program. To be sure, the courses in the purpose of discovering interests, 
English, Zoology, Art, etc., are num­the correlation of facts as they are 
bered 1, 2, 3, 4, and upwards, and learned, and the broad synthesis of 
there are customarily prerequisites of learning to produce a working philos­
one kind or another, but only to a ophy. It is fundamentally sound 
limited degree do these measures practice, too often neglected by 
contribute to a desirable progressive­ness. At least definite sequences of courses built solidly one upon an­other to form a stable edifice are not to be found in any school. Admitted­ly the concept of progression in in­struction by fixed regulations cannot be carried- too far because of the variability in students and the over­lapping and blending of' fields of knowledge. But the principle of 
' graded instruction is sound, and until many of the present offerings are eliminated or placed in proper se­quence, and imtil provision is made in every other way for orderly men­tal growth, there will be a continua­tion of the waste of the student's time through temptations to take work he will not need or to do work which requires less effort than he is capable of giving. 
3 — Cooperation Between Institu­tions. Reflection upon proper orienta­tion and upon progressive training leads logically to a consideration of inter-institutional relations. It is not too much to say that educators appre­ciate more than they will openly admit that our schools of advanced learning are exhibiting a deplorable provincialism. For the inception of this spirit, no one can rightly be blamed; for its continuation every one interested in our educational in­stitutions must accept responsibility. Many of these schools were estab­lished when transportation was slow, difficult, and expensive. It has been necessary for them to serve a more or less definite clientele. In conse­quence duplication of effort has not been uneconomical but the duty of the institution; a duty that, until re­cent years, has been the more easily performed because of the limited field to be covered. Within a half century we have seen the fields of knowledge expand greatly, curricula lengthen astonishingly, transportation pu t within the reach of everyone, and the schools placed in the position of com­peting for students. Duplication of effort has come out of unit responsi­bility. 
It is unthinkable that the attitude of isolation of our colleges.and uni­versities should be allowed to con­tinue either because of tradition or an attitude of complacency. Society should not be asked to pay the costs of useless duplication in any of its activities. Logically the next step in educational progress should be co­ordination of the schools, and since this integration of eflTort cannot to advantage be forced, hurried, or un­intelligently guided, educators must take the initiative, study the prob­lems, and perform the necessary ex­periments. By common agreement fields of specialization should be allocated to different schools and stu­dents should be distributed according to their interests. While it is not to be expected, or desired, that our insti-" 
(Continued on Page 84) 

ATHLETICS: 

Kansas! Northwestern! Navy! Army!— The Victory March 
Armv had everything. 
They had Felix (Pick) Vidal, brother of Gene Vidal who scored three touchdowns and t\vo field goals to give Army a 30 to 10 victory in 1916. 
HUGH DEVORE 
They had more reserve strength 
than Notre Dame—they used three 
teams in giving Harvard a 46 to 0 
lacing, the worst a Har\-ard team 
ever took on its own field. 
They had back almost all of the 
stars who pushed the Irish all over 
the lot a year ago to win 12 to 0. 
Notre Dame had lost to Pittsburgh early in the season. They had looked great against Haskell, Drake, and Carnegie Tech. Then they had folded. They stayed folded for Pitt, Kansas, Northwestern, and Navy. 
Gone was the famous Notre Dame blocking and the vicious Notre Dame tackling. "Luck," said Coach Ander­son, "won the Kansas and North­western games." Straight football and powerful charging by the back­field beat Navy. The line didn't seem to help much—whatever ground Notre Dame made seemed to be due entirely to the momentum of the ball-carrier. 
Then "flu" hit Notre Dame. An epidemic of injuries, the first serious ones of the year, left the Irish for­ward wall riddled. 
Notre Dame apparently had lost heart. Anderson was conceding an Army victory by a margin of three touchdowns. Shades of Rockne psy­chology. 
Tuesday night there was a pep-meeting. Through an oversight, only nine players knew about it and the rest busied themselves studying, at 
STEVE BAXAS 
By Joseph Petritz, '32 

shows, or resting. Rumors of dis­sension were rampant. 
The student body was behind the team. The nine players who showed up for the pep meeting said that THEY would fight for the students, and couldn't understand what was wrong with the rest of the team . . . except Jim Harris and George Melin­kovich. 
They were in the infirmary with the flu. The student body marched over to give them a cheer. 
The team left for New York, with a student ovation ringing in their ears. They got their hopes up when some of the more experienced cam­paigners told them how Army plays and how Notre Dame could win. Those who had missed the pep meet­ing were ashamed and hurt. They really hadn't known about it. They weren't laying down on "Hunk." 
They'd show the world Saturday. It was as clear on the first play after the kickoff that Notre Dame would win as it was last year that .•Vrmy would win. A first down in three plays heartened Irish support­ers, many of whom had given points on Notre Dame when they could have had odds or points on Army. Steve Banas kicked to Vidal. Five Irish linemen smothered him in his tracks. Only once did he get away, once when Ed Kosky crashed just a bit too fast and the play went around him at Army's right end. Joe Shee­ketski shooed him out of bounds on the Irish 40 yard line after a 36 yard gain. Then .A.rmy tried three passes, one 
of which just rolled off Vidal's finger­tips. All of them failed. The 40­yard line was the furthest Army got against Notre Dame all day long. Army kicked and Notre Dame started down the field. 
Jill HARRIS 
Once they pressed deep into Cadet territory, only to lose the ball on a fumble. Again they marched down to the five yard line where Captain Paul Host took a pass from Mike Ko­ken, but he was downed on the five yard line. Armv kicked out to mid­field. 
The next play was a long, looping pass to Host from Koken. Host just caught it with his fingertips, running at top speed to the Army five yard line. It was the same pass Jack Elder threw to Captain Conley in 1930 to set up Notre Dame's winning touchdown over Southern California, 13 to 12. 
George Melinkovich went deep on the next play, then veered to the right where he took Mike Koken's perfect pass in the end zone for a touchdown. Chuch Jaskwhich kicked tiie extra point from placement with Koken holding the ball. 
There was time for only two more plays. One was a 20-yard.Army pass, one of the four which worked out of 18 Cadet attempts. 
The ne.\t half found the .so-called second team backfield back in the game. They marched down to the Army 26 yard line. It was fourth down with a yard to go. Steve Banas was over-anxious. He was supposed to plunge the extra yard, but he started too soon and was penalized 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 79 
five yards. Fourth down, six to go, the ball on the 31 yard line over on the right sideline. Banas went back ostensibly to kick. 
He took the ball, side-stepped to the right instead of the left where Army was waiting for him. An 
CAPT. PAUL HOST 

Army forward glanced off his knees, another clutched at him, • and he ­flipped his wrist, throwing the first pass of his career. Standing far back, almost in midfield, he dropped the ball perfectly into the hands of Hughie Devore who was crossing the goal line with Ed Kosky running beside him. 
Devore, playing for his family and friends from Newark, as well as for the student body, had one hand in a cement glove, but he hung on to that pass. Murphy kicked the goal from placement. 
Banas, still worried about that off"­side play of his, soon kicked the ball some 50 yards. It bounced along crazily, Big Ed Krause following it like a hawk, ready to pounce on it. But he didn't have to. It rolled out of bounds on the one-yard line. Coffin comer. Kilday went back to punt be­hind his o^vn goal line. 
Joe Kurth and Ed Krause, off whose fingers punts had been rolling all afternoon, were in fast. Kilday fumbled around; he tried to throw the ball out of bounds, but Krause hit him in the act. The ball bobbed ahead a few yards where Jim Harris, acting captain in the absence of Host, ' dropped on it for a third touchdown. Murphy again split the goal posts with a neat arching place-kick. 
The killer instinct was rampant. Notre Dame didn't settle back to pro­tect its lead. It pressed onward again —twice missing touchdowns when Jaskwhich dropped a pass he seemed to have in the end zone. The ball was in his hands when someone hit him from behind and jarred it loose. Dominic Vairo took another pass in the end zone a couple of plays after he had entered the game. His hands were cold and he, too, dropped the 
ball. 
Army came back and worked two more short passes in a frantic effort to cut down the Notre Dame lead, but they did no good. After his 36 yard run, Vidal took the ball seven more times and made two yards. A bettor in the stands said "when Notre Dame is the under-dog, get on 'em." -\nother said, "I had fifty dollars on Army, but it was worth losing to see this game." 
Captain Summerfelt found his way to the Irish dressing room where he smiled his congratulations to the Notre Dame players. He had been great in defeat that day. 
Hunk Anderson was overjoyed. He was asked to name outstanding play­ers and couldn't. Kurth and Krause were two of the finest tackles he had ever seen. Harris and Greeney were stone walls on defense and great blockers on offense.- Ed Kosky and Paul Host played like veterans that they are, at the ends. Devore played the smartest ball of his career. Pivar­nik went in for Greeney and did the hardest charging he had done in two seasons. Jack Robinson at center, a 
sophomore, was brilliant. 
Chuck Jaskwhich made the hardest block of the day when he sent Kilday spinning "almost into Major Basse's lap." Murphy's selection of a fourth down pass for a touchdown and Banas' expert execution of the play— this was the stand-out of the game. Lukats was the hardest driving back on the field. Sheeketski and Branch­eau played the game of their life. Melinkovich was slowed up by the flu, or he would have scored on his 25-yard run. Koken was his usual high-class self. 
Benny Friedman said the Irish generalship throughout was brilliant. There was not one individual star. They were all superlative against one of the greatest Army teams in history. 
NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL SCHEDULE, 1932-33 
Dec. 9—Albion at Notre Dame. 
Dec. 15—Illinois Wesleyan at Notre Dame. 
Dec 19—Nortiiwestem at Notre Dame. 
Dec 23—Purdue at Lafayette. 
Dec. 2S—Oiiio State at Columbus. 
Dec. 31—Northwestern at Evanston. 
Jan. 7—Marquette at Notre Dame. 
Jan. 14—Butler at Notre Dame. 
Jan. 21—PittsburKh at Pittsburch. 
Jan. 23—Toledo at Toledo. 
Feb. 1—Carneffie Tech at Notre Dame. 
Feb. 4—Chicago at Chicaco. 
Feb. 11—^Pittsburgh at Notre Dame. 
Feb. IS—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia. 
Feb. 20—^\Vestem Reserve at Cleveland. 
Feb. 24—Michigan State at Notre Dame. 
Uar. 1—Butler at Indianapolis. 
Mar. 4—^Wabash at Notre Dame. 
Mar. 7—^Marquette at Milwaukee. 
This was the team which had been stung by lashing criticism after its loss to Pittsburgh, when Notre Dame pushed the Panthers all over the lot, only to lose on a beautiful run by Se­bastian and a subsequent pass inter­ception by Dailey. 
CHUCK JASKWHICH 

Long runs and passes had beat Kansas, 24 to 6, the next week at Lawrence, but the Notre Dame attack wasn't rolling. Notre Dame looked terrible. 
Northwestern, using a specially de­signed defense, piled up the Notre Dame running attack, but Melinko­vich had run the opening kickoff back in his rhythmic, driving style for 98 yards and a touchdown. A pass to Vairo, the sophomore star left end, and a triple pass, Koken, to Kosky, to Jaskwhich, were lucky enough to pull this game out of the fire. But Notre Dame wasn't great. It was the worst defeat Northwestern took all season, but Notre Dame was lucky. 
Emmett Murphy engineered two clever touchdowns against Navy in the first half with his so-called shock troops, but the varsity couldn't score in the next 30 minutes of play. They got down to the Middies' goal line thrice and were thrown back. Shee­ketski's six-yard end run and his other touchdown on a pass from Lu­kats were enough to win, but Notre Dame looked bad. 
After the Army game, it was dif­ferent. Harry Stuhldreher, all-Amer­ican quarterback of the Four Horse­men said it when he stated, "Notre Dame today was as great as I have ever seen the team. It was better than the Four Horsemen of 1924." 
"No team is great until it has been beaten once," said Rockne. Southern California, undefeated in IS straight games, will test the Irish further at Los Angeles, December 10. But if "Hunk" can work his same psychol­ogy on the Trojans and his own players, there will be no doubt about the outcome. "When Notre Dame is the under-dog, get on 'em." 
Notre Dame Coaches Dot Football Landscape of Nation 
Annual Article by E. Morris Starrett Lost Throush Democratic Landslide; List oF N. D. Men in ProFession Sisnificant oF Success oF Notre Dame System 
Almost annually, the ALUMXUS has been privileged to print an article by 
E. Morris Starret, Port Townsend alumnus and long-time holder of the 
N. D. fan's mileage record, recording the national panorama of Notre Dame football as introduced to the nation's schools by coaches schooled at Notre Dame. This year, swept into the Washington legislature by his con­stituency, shaken by news of George Keogan's marriage on Thanksgiving, and still the Olympic Realty Service in person, Morrie has declined to write the article because of lack of contact with the necessarj' data. Therefore, it is with a frustrated feel­ing that the ALUMNUS foregoes its annual treat except for the privilege of reprinting the list of N. D. coaches in the field as compiled by the Ath­letic Office at the University. 
Not being e.xpert in this great field, few comments w*ill be made. This is also -wise in the light of the vagaries of the present season, the rise of the 
obscure and the fall 
Heartley W. Anderson 
F. NordhofT Hoffmann . Marchmont Schwartz .­John "Ike" Voodisch _ Thomas Yarr Joseph Bach Charles Bachman Norman Barry Harry Baujan Joseph Benda Arthur "Dutch" Bergman Arthur "Bud" Bocrincer . Joseph Boland Martin Brill Dr. Harvey Brown Jack Cannon Glenn Carberrj* Frank Caridco William Cemey Charles Collins Thomas Conley ~ Forrest Cotton Clem Crowe James Crowley Joseph Dienhart Charles Dorais ——. Daniel Duffy ^Vilbur Eaton -_ Eugene Edwards . Mai Elward Jack Elder Rex Enright Christie Flanagan ——~. 
A. J. Gebert Barry HoUon __ Al Howard Ed Hunsinger William Jones Thomas "Cy" Kasper . Thomas Kenneally Roger Kiley Noble Kixer Daniel Lamont Elmer Layden Frank Leahy Jay Lee — 
 of the mightj', 

 University of Notre -University of Notre -University of Notre University of Notre Unix'orsity of Notre 
HEARTLEY "HUNK" 
Holds the reins in
 Dame  Dame  Dame  Dame  Dame 

Duquesne University. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
University of Florida, Ga!nos\'iIle, Fla. 
De LaSalle High School, Chicago, III. 
University" of Daj-ton, Da>-ton, Ohio. 
St, John's College, Collegeville. Minn. 
Catholic University, Washington, D. C. 
University of Detroit. Detroit, Mich. 
College of St. Thomas. St. Paul, Minn. 
LaSalle Institute, Philadelphia, Pa. 
-Universitj- of Detroit, Detroit, Mich. „Georgia Tech. Atlanta. Ga. -Michigan State College. E. Lansing. Mich. ^University of Missouri, Columbia. Mo. ..University of North Carolina. Chapel Hill. -University of North Carolina. Chapel Hill. -LaSalle Institute. Philadelphia. Pa. _Catholic University, Washington, D. C. -Xavier University, Cincinnati, Ohio. -Michigan State College, E. Lansing. Mich. ^Cathedral High School, Indianapolis. Ind. -University of Detroit, Detroit, Mich. _HoIy Name High School, Cleveland, Ohio. -Howard Pa>-ne U. Birmingham, Ala. _St. Vincent's College, Beatty, Pa. _Purdue University. Lafayette, Ind. ^Catholic Youth Organization, Chicago, 111. „ University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia. _U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md. _University of Wichita, Wichita, Kans. „^Vichita Falls H. S., ^Vichita Falls.. Texas. _Universit>' of North Carolina. Chapel Hill. „Villanova College. Villanova. Pa. .-Carroll College, Helena, Mont. „ South Dakota State College, Brookings. S. D. _Rutgers College. New Brunswick. N. J. _ ..Alabama Polytechnic Institute. Auburn, AI.1. 
-Purdue University. Lafayette, Ind. -University of Washington, Seattle. Wash. -Duquesne University, Pittsburgh. Pa. -Michigan State College. E. Lansing, Mich. -University of Buffalo. Buffalo, N. Y. 
with upsets piling upon upsets to overcome in large measure the reluct­ance of the financially embarrassed fan to cross the anxious palms of sundry graduate managers. 
North, South, East and West, Notre Dame men are enjoying all the for­tunes that accompany the fine art of coaching, with its ramifications that have made football coaches probably the outstanding statesmen of the era. International affairs have few more trying spots than that area within the triangle of administration, stud­ents and alumni which the coach must cover. A game lost, a crowd over­estimated, a star dimmed—and a wave of hysteria sweeps the football fic^d and almost washes away the coaching bench thereon. 
A study of the accompanying list and a study of your Sunday paper will show you how favorable still are the trade winds that have carried the 

 ANDERSON, '22 banners of Notre Dame to the far the "Capital" stadia of the nation. 
Thomas Lieb Joseph Locke — Edw. P. "Slip" Madigan Frank Mayer —. Jack Meagher Harry Mehre Joseph Mej'er Don Miller Edgar "Rip" Miller Larrj- MuUins . Eugene Murphy John Mc&Ianmon Vincent McNally — Joseph Nash _—_.-.. John Niemiec John Noppenberger Eugene Oberst John O'Brien Paul O'Connor James Phelan George Philbrook Robert Reagan Frank Reese Charles Riley . LawTence T. *'Buck" George Shay John Smith 
Maurice J. "Clipper" Smith. Harry Stuhldreher Frank W. Thomas Ted Twomey 
R. E. Vaughn Iilanfred Vezie George Vlk John Wallace Adam Walsh. Charles "Chile" Walsh Earl Walsh 
Chester Wynne Elmer Wynne Jack Chevigny Carl Cronin Ray DeCooke 
Curly Lambcau . John I*aw 
-Loyola University. Los Angeles. Calif. -University of Wichita, Wichita. Kans. -St. Mary's College, Oakland. Calif. -College of St. Thomas, St. Paul. Minn. ..Rice Institute. Houston. Texas. -University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia. -Xavier University, Cincinnati. Ohio. _Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio. _U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis. Md. _St. Benedict's College. Atchison, Kansas. -Columbia University. Portland, Oregon. -Boston University, Boston, Mass. -St. Mary's College. Oakland, Calif. -IT. of New Mexico, Albuquerque. N. M. -Rice Institute, Houston. Te.\as. -Spaulding Institute, Peoria. III. „Canisius College, Buffalo, N. Y. .-U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md. _YaIe University, New Haven, Conn. —University of Washington, Seattle. Wash. ..University of Nevada, Reno, Nevada. —Villanova College. Villanova, Pa. -North Carolina State College. Raleigh. N. C. 
„U. of New Mexico, Albuqueniue, N. M. -U . of Santa Clara, Santa Clara, Calif. -Manhattan University. New York, N. Y. 
-North Carolina State College, Raleigh. N. C. „U. of Santa Clara, Santa Clara. Calif. -Villanova College. Villanova, Pa. -University of Alabama. Tuscaloosa. Ala. -University of Georgia, Athens, Ga. -Wabash College. Crawfordsville. Ind. -Loyola University, Los Angeles. Calif. -Catholic University, Washington, D. C. -Gary High School, Gary, Ind. -Yale University, New Haven, Conn. -St. Louis University, St. Louis. Mo. -Des Moines Catholic College. -Alabama Polytechnic Inst.. Auburn, Ala. -Colorado School of Mines, Golden, Colo. -Chicago Cardinals (Pro-football) 
-Wlnnepeg. Canada (Coaching Rugby) -St. Joseph College, Renssalaer. Ind. -Green Bay (Wis.) Packers (Pro-Football) -Sing SAns (Coaching Football) 

Religious Page John F. O'Hara, C.S.C. 
Prefect of Relighn 

<t^^ 
ANOTHER RELIGIOUS SURVEY 
The success which attended the Religious Survey of the Alumni made two years ago has encouraged the Uni­versity to repeat the experiment this year. The suggestion offered on several of the questionnaires that the interroga­tory be mailed annually was voted down, and a biennial investigation was substituted as more practical. It is hoped that the questionnaires will be ready for mailing shortly after the first of the year—they may be deferred until Lent—but the matter is brought to your attention now in order to encourage the offering of suggestions regarding the subject-matter of inquiry. 
AVe give below a partial list of questions submitted by the alumni on the last questionnaire in the space left for such suggestions. We would appreciate your comment on them. This page may be detached and mailed back to the Prefect of Religion, with your criticism or any questions you wish to propose. The space provided below for "Comment" will serve for this purpose in most cases; an extra sheet may be added if necessary. This is not a vote; it is merely an opportunity for comment. 
The following list is neither inclusive nor exclusive; it merely contains suggestions. It may be that in the final form none of the questions given below will appear; it is likely, however, that most of them will be used, in one form or another. 

THE QUESTIONS 

1.
 Do you live alone or with your parents? 

2.
 What is your opinion of Notre Dame? The old? The new? 

3.
 What place would you visit first on a return to the Notre Dame campus? 

4.
 What effect of any character did your close and daily contact with priests and brothers have on your attitude towards the Church? 

5.
 Give suggestions on how alumni can aid Notre Dame when they return each year for commencement. 

6.
 How can the Notre Dame clubs continue Notre Dame ideals? 

7.
 Does contact with your local alumni club aid you spiritually? 

8.
 Have you ever helped a fellow-graduate? 

9.
 How can Notre Dame educate Notre Dame graduates to help one another? 

10.
 Can Notre Dame aid you in any way now in re-acquiring a grasp of the importance of staying close to Catholicism and its principles? 

11.
 Which do you blame for any lack of application, yourself or your school? . 


12. 
What could Notre Dame do better to fit its graduates for their place in life? 

13.
 Should Notre Dame give more attention to money­making courses than to cultural subjects? 

14.
 What do your relatives and friends think of Notre 

Dame's effects on you? 

15.
 Have you ever regretted going to Notre Dame? 


15. Is Notre Dame responsible for any of your success? 
17.
 Has the fact that you are a Notre Dame man helped you in your endeavors, business or social? 

18.
 Ask a question on co-education, and classify the replies geographically, and according to rural and urban residence. 

19.
 Would you subscribe to a practical series of pamph­lets compiled by the University, dealing with current Catholic topics? 

20.
 What cultural reading, if any, have you done in the past year? 

21.
 Do you make retreats? 

22.
 Would you be more interested in parish affairs if you could associate more with college men in the work? 


23.
 Does your home parish aid you to follow the religious training you received at Notre Dame? 

24.
 If you are no longer a frequent communicant, why did you stop? 

25.
 Do you intend to receive Holy Communion more fre­quently than in the past? 

26.
 What facilities have you in your home parish for Holy Communion? 

27.
 Do you attend a church where they have special devo­tions, novenas, and the like, or a church where one Sunday is the same as another except for the Gospel? 

28.
 Are you habitually late to Mass? 


29.
 Do you attend your own parish church or some other? 

30.
 What per cent of your income do you give to the support of your parish? 

31.
 Questions on charity to Catholic institutions, hos­pitals, colleges and so forth. 

32.
 Are graduates of Catholic colleges, in your opinion, generally deficient in any important particular? 

33.
 Are your classmates who were lax spiritually at college still in the Church? 

34.
 Do you think that Catholic college graduates, as a class, drink to excess? 

35.
 Have you found it easier or harder to resist impure temptations since leaving Notre Dame? 

36.
 Has contact •with the world caused any change in your attitude towards the use of intoxicants? 

37.
 Is your consultant physician a Catholic? 

38.
 Since leaving Notre Dame have most of your friends been Catholics? 

39.
 Are you a real Catholic or do you "just go through the motions?" 

40.
 Has your faith been lessened? Why? 

41.
 What article of faith do you have to explain most frequently? 

42.
 Have you personally tried to interest your non-Catholic friends in the Church? Have you sent them Catholic literature? 

43.
 What are you doing to refute the charge that a good Catholic cannot be a good American? 

44.
 What has been your greatest source of consolation and the greatest corrective influence when condi­tions affecting your business life and home life were complicated and mentally disturbing? 


45.
 If you had your coU^e life to live over again, what change would you make in your religious program? 

46.
 What is the greatest single beneiit you have derived from your religion? 

47.
 How does your present place in life compare with the plans you made for yourself whUe in college? 

48.
 Have you relegated your religion to second place, behind business? 

49.
 Do you close your eyes to shady practices that would aid you materially? 

50.
 Do you think political activity good for the Catholic alumnus? 

51.
 Do you endeavor to discourage attendance at theatri­cal entertainments of questionable moral character? 

52.
 Do you consider yourself successful, or on the way to 

success, spiritually? Materially? 

53.
 Are you a leader in your community? Social or civil? 

54.
 Has your religion had any effect on your employer? 

55.
 How can Catholic leadership best be fostered and directed against pagan and corrupt tendencies in social, business and political life? 

56.
 How many non-Catholics who attended Notre Dame have become Catholics after graduation? 

57.
 Has your married life been successful? Are you now living ^\•ith your wife, or have you been separated? 

58.
 What is the. chief source of discord in your family life? What physical or mental imperfection of your wife angers you most? What defects would you want to avoid if you married again? Do you believe that you were determined in choosing a wife by love, or was it circumstances or expediency? 

59.
 What did Notre Dame do to aid you in choosing a good wife? 

60.
 What is the average alumnus doing to finance a plan 

for the Catholic-college education of his children? (I would like to find a plan that -will work.) 

61.
 What has been the effect on you of this questionnaire? 

62.
 Did the previous questionnaire awaken you spiritually? 

63.
 How much spiritual progress have you made since you last answered a religious survey questionnaire? Distinguish in the replies between those trained in Catholic and those from public preparatory schools. 


COMMENT 

Open Letter to the Father of a *32 Man 
Notre Dame, Ind. Nov. 27, 1932 Mr 
Chicago, 111.. • 
Dear Mr : 
Thank you for the genuine interest and reactions which inspired your letter of November 23. It brings up several problems in alumni relations. 
You write: 

". . .My contacts with the last term graduates from several colleges lead me tc believe that such efforts as you are putting forward at this time add to the present seri­ously depressed mental conditions of these young men. It seems to me that you are plac­ing an added burden on them without any satisfactory results to the Alumni Association. They have not the money and cannot obtain it, and that is the reason why so few of them have responded to your first call. Just what is gained by adding to their embarrassment can­not be understood by me. Practically all organizations have ceased tryig to get money from their members, excepting where there is dire distress. I am simply passing on to you knowledge v/hich I have from constant contact with these things. I wajit my son to be­long to your Alumni, the same as many other fathers, but it is the idea not only of him but many others v/ith whom I have discussed the matter, that it is a money-getting proposi­tion sponsored by the Association in these present difficult times and that it will bring damage to your Association instead of benefit." 
The Alumni Association is organized by alumni and for alumni. Therefore any­thing in its program inimical to alumni is self-injury. 
Notre Dame has always found that the nevi alumni, the boys just out. appreciate the Association's policy in receiving them into full membership at once. There is no Class distinction. This psychology of equality is a feature in which we have taken pride. Economic conditions should not affect the situation.- Older alumni, like the men of '32, have felt the changes of fortune. Many of them, with debts contracted during prosperous times, with families dependent, and with businesses hanging in the balance can certainly offer equally strong arguments. 
Therefore, it has seemed to us, we should either forego completely our requests, or continue to send out bills without discrimination. 
The question resolves itself into existence or not for the Association. 
For that is definitely the question. With us, it is "dire distress." The Univer­sity is involved in the problems of expansion, of maintaining and improving academic standards, and other internal activities which prevent it from being a source of finan­cial aid. 
A man clinging to a cliff side, though his hands are bleeding, his clothing torn, and his hope failing, gains nothing from turning loose his grip on even those seemingly slender shoots that take root in the jagged rocks. While he hangs on, there is hope. 
. In this financial crisis, more than ever before, it is imperative that men cling, if civilization is to survive, to those few shoots, implanted in the crevices of the cliffs of the centuries. Eventually a rope will be flung which will haul them to safety. Such is history. It may be the rope of reforms, with new hopes, new achieve­ments,—or it may be the rope of revolution, .with the safety of slavery. 
We at Notre Dame believe that the staunchest things to which men may cling are the Cathtflic Church and Catholic education. They have survived the great crises of two thou­sand years. If safety with security comes, it will come to those v/ho cling to them. 
(Continued on Page 91) 

THRE E THOUGHTS 
ON 
EDUCATION 
(Continued from Pasc 77) 
tations will altogether give up their individualism, there would seem to be no real reason why this period should not witness at least the inception of an intelligent integration among the institutions of each state or in other areas of concentration. In this be­lief, I have proposed for Jlichigan an advisory committee on educational programs and policies, made up of representatives of each institution of higher learning under the chairman­ship of the Superintendent of Public Instruction. This plan would, if put into effect, give opportunity for in­telligent planning and independent thought without the sacrifice of the autonomy of the schools, and thus 
have both educational and financial advantages. 
In conclusion. It is not too much to hope that a beginning of coordina­tion of effort in education will soon be witnessed, that instruction will be­come more progressive, and that a more serious attempt will be made to orient the individual by giving him an acquaintance with the history of knowledge, in order that students may be well-equipped and find it easy to choose both major fields of interest and institutions best fitted to supply their needs. Wasteful and costly com­petition and duplication are not needed. There is required a unifica­tion of education which will embrace 
most of the more important institu­tions, north and south, in the east and in the west,—a unification which vrill reflect and contribute to the brother­hood of man, bringing together and utilizing the best efforts of the Orient and Occident, the Hebrew, and the Anglo-Saxon, the Greek, the Arab, and the Latin, with the greatest pos­sible economy of time and effort. Only a coordinated world program in education will effectively ward off the devastating effects of rises and falls in culture which have previously been the order of the centuries. 
(N. B. In 1928, Dr. E. A. Fitz­patrick, dean of the graduate school of Marquette, who spoke at Notre Dame on Nov. 20, said in a paper at the Convention of the N. C. A. P., speaking of Catholic graduate schools, "It seems to me feasible within the group to substitute ideals of co-operation for obsessions of con­flict. It seems to me possible for all Catholic institutions to rejoice that an exceptional scholar, or teacher, or administrator, has appeared in their midst, just as such co-operation might stop the inevitable passing from one institution to another of the members of the demi-monde of scholarship that are to be found at present in our Catholic colleges, and elsewhere for 
that matter.") 

 FRANK J. LONERGAN, *04, GOVERNOR OF OREGON 
The following interesting news­paper clipping was received from WALTER DALY, Portland, a class­mate of the new chief executive of Oregon: 
On Nov. 18, the state of Oregon saw its third governor since Meier was inaugurated two years ago. Frank J. Lonergan, speaker of the 1931 house of representatives, arrived in Salem at noon, was sworn in by Chief Justice Henry J. Bean and was in the executive chair at 12:20 p. m. 
Lonergan will conduct the execu­tive's office for several weeks during the absence of Governor Meier, who left Portland last night for San Francisco to visit relatives. 
Willard L. Marks, who has served as governor in Meier's absence on several occasions, resigned as presi­dent of the senate several months ago, thus qualifying the speaker of the house to be next successor to the governor. 
Attorney General I. H. Van Winkle, simultaneously with the arrival of Lonergan, was writing an opinion holding that Lonergan was the legal governor. He held the speaker of the house and president of the senate are state officials and the constitution provides their successorship to the governor's chair. In view of this. Van Winkle holds, they hold office until their successors are elected. New leaders will not be chosen until the new legislature is organized. 
Lonergan said he would remain in the office here for about a half an 
N. D. HOST TO N. C. A. F. 
(Continued from Page 71) 
two selections, accompanied by Jo­seph Casasanta, '23, head of the de­partment of music. 
This scant review does not do jus­tice to the contributions made by the men on the program during the entire day. Too few alumni availed them­selves of the opportunity the occasion afforded. Invitations were extended to St. Mary's social science students and faculty, who attended several of the events; to the Knights of Colum­bus Councils of the District, which were represented; and to the pastors in South Bend and Mishawaka, who were also represented. 
Eighteen Catholic colleges were represented, including the University of Detroit, St. Norbert's College, St. Procopius College, Xavier's of Cin­cinnati, St. Edward's University, Uni­versity of Dayton, Loyola of Chicago, Canisius, St. Louis University, Mar­quette University, College of St. Thomas, St. Mary's of Kentucky, ST. Viator, Catholic University, De Paul University, Gonzaga, St. John's Col­lege of Toledo, and Notre Dame. 
hour when he would return to Port­land. He said he would serve at Salem when needed during the governor's absence. Today he signed several doc­uments as governor, all routine papers. 
Earl W. Snell of Arlington, who is e-xpected to be the speaker of the house at the next legislative session, arrived here today with Lonergan, and was one of those who saw him assume the governorship. The state police was represented at the cere­mony by George Alexander, deputy superintendent. Others present were Mrs. Helen Tyson of the secretarial staff of the governor, and newspaper men. 
On his arrival. Governor Lonergan received several telegrams of con­gratulations. 
Lonergan said he would carry out the policies of Governor Meier, say­ing he was "just sitting in as a pinch hitter." He added he would not take any important steps without confer­ring with Meier. 
Lonergan has been in the house of representatives from Multnoma h county four sessions, the last one be­ing chosen speaker. He was reelected to the new legislature of 1933. Ore­gon's new governor was born in Polo, 111., and is 50 years old. 
Lonergan is a graduate of Notre Dame, finishing his law course there in 1904. He came to Oregon the same fall and has been a resident of the state since that time. He was ad­mitted to the Oregon bar in 1908. 
Brothers Busy 
Brother Neil, C.S.C., is on his way to Dacca, East Bengal, India, where he will teach in the schools of the Congregation in that far-off mission field. A native of Ohio and a veteran of the World War, since his gradua­tion from the University, he has been engaged in teaching at Reitz Mem­orial High school, Evansville, Ind,; Central Catholic High school, Fort Wayne, and Holy Trinity High school, Chicago. 
Brother Ernest, C.S.C, Sacred Heart College, Watertown, Wis., is contributing a serial to the Annah of Lourdes, a monthly periodical pub­lished at Notre Dame. Two other serials of his, "The Knightly Lady," and "Dickie," ran in the Catholic Daily Tribune and the Sentinel of the Blessed Sacrament. The Catholic School Journal is publishing a series of articles by him on the teaching of religion in secondary schools. 
To man propose this test: Thy body at its best. How far can it project thy soul on its lone way?—Browning. 

ALUMNI CLUBS 
(Note to Club Secretaries: The Alumni Office is handicapped by a lack of time, money, and staff, and many new and interesting- handicaps. It is not possible to employ the fol­low-up system we would like in so­liciting news. Nor can we always answer your inquiries and requests as promptly as we would like. But the major object of the ALUMNUS is to serve as a channel through which news from one part of the country or one person can flow to another part or person. Our major job, now, is to put out the ALUM­NUS. It would help a lot, in these distressed times, if you would forgive us our shortcomings and see that events and personalities in your Club are sent in for publication. When the big job is done, the Editor hopes to enlist the Club and Class officers in smoothing out the working system. But we are working on a depression basis and we need your special as­sistance now. Some day we'll do something for you, if you help bail out the old craft through these rough seas. Like good old Ulysses lashed to the mast, it's no fun directing the old boat either. However, as one of the Sirens said to Charybdis, "Don't be Scylla.") 
BUFFALO 

Ran across a letter from Gordon Bennett the other day decrying the summer activities in Buffalo, but prophecying a renaissance with the opening of the school year. If we may answer a currently popular ques­tion, we're listenin'. 
CINCINNATI 

The Democratic landslide was fore­cast in Cincinnati by a complete re­organization of the Club there. About the middle of October the boys met at Shevlin's Oyster House for a din­ner. Two nominating committees were appointed, Leo DuBois heading one with Joe Morrissey and Don Dix­on, and Al Castellini heading the other with Clarence Bing and John (erstwhile Botts) Crowley. Officers elected (unanimously, too) were: President, Robert Hughes; vice-presi­dent, Don Dixon; secretary, W. D. "Hogan" Morrissey (pause a moment, gentle reader, while efficiency draws out an editorial cheer for the reelec­tion of one of the most faithful and efficient secretaries on the list); treasurer. Jack Heilker; and trustees, Harry Crumley, William Castellini and Joe Morrissey. 
A committee to draw up rules and by-laws was appointed, consisting of Al Castellini, Joe Morrissey and Don Dixon. This committee reported at the first regular meeting of the Club Nov. 1 at the Fenwick. The new regulations were adopted as read. Regular committees were appointed by President Hughes, as follows: membership, Hogan Morrissey, chair­man, Messrs. Bonkamp, J. Morrissey and DuBois; undergraduate, Don Dix­on, chairman, Messrs. Kotte and Brink; publicity. Bill Castellini, chair­man, Botts Crowley; entertainment, delayed. Rev. Thomas Crumley, C.S.C., Notre Dame, was made Chap­lain of the Club. 
Regular meetings will be held the first Tuesday of each month at 6:15 
P. M. at the Fenwick Club. 
KENTUCKY 

-A brief note from the Colonel coun­try gives promise of bigger and bet­ter things to come — that repeal plank in the victorious platform may have brought a little more sun to the sunny South. The letter is from H. 
J. Ohligschlager. "Our Club took a new lease on life since I last wrote you. Had a fine meeting with election of officers. Randy Dempf is our new president. Bill Reisert our secretary. Louis "Red" Salmon was to give us a talk but was unfortunately prevented. He is in Louisville at present with the Healy Construction Co. We are con­centrating on our treasury, and when that is near normal, you can expect 
Life and Pep in the old N. D. Club of Ky." 
MILWAUICEE 

Milwaukee, like Ky., is dusting off the steins and enjoying a bustle that bodes ill for the depression. The 
N. D. Club in Milwaukee hasn't, how­ever, needed that stimulus. It has solved the depression by never rec­ognizing it so far as its activities and its spirit have gone. 
Ang Galdabini was such a high-

powered secretary of the lake-and­
lager layout that Charley O'Neill, the 
newly appointed incumbent has an­
nexed two assistant secretaries, Paul 
Brust and Dick Cannon. 
On the day of the Pitt game, thirty 

members of the Club, Charley inau­
gurates, gathered at the Medford 
Hotel for a luncheon meeting, the 
main attraction of course being the 
radio account of the game. Fathers 
of N. D. students and Pitt alumni 
were guests of the Club. "Our presi­
. dent, William Redden, has suggested the appointment of an advisory com­mittee to meet regularly with him for the purpose of planning the win­ter social activities of the Club. 
December 9 the Club is sponsoring a bridge party for members and for the families of students at N. D. as well. Proceeds vrill go to the Living Endowment Fund. (Attention all Lo­cal Clubs!) 
During the Christmas holidays the Club is planning a dinner for fathers and sons and members. The Aliunni Secretary has accepted a generous in­vitation to be present. Vice-President Jim Sanford was the guest of the Club at its summer picnic. 
Good old Milwaukee! 
MONTAN.A. Following is a letter received some time ago from Jack Hickofc, '2T, with a few of the Montana men and activi­ties listed: "In retrospect it seems impossible to me to realize that five years have passed without my having returned to Notre Dame and without having communicated directly with her. On several occasions I have had plans in prospect that would take me there but' each time I have fallen a few hundred miles short of my goal. Those of us who are in Montana have not, how­ever, allowed the distance nor the fact that we are few and scattered to stand in the way of keeping ourselves identified with the school and its ac­tivities. During the early part of nineteen-twenty-eight we formed the Notre Dame Club of Montana and have had at least one annual get-to­gether'since. Jimmie Collins is here now as is Noel Gies and others and so when Jimmie O'Flynn, State Secry., 
J. B. Sherlock and I gather as we have for some time at luncheon now and again we have quite a represen­tative showing. You may be sure that all of us in this state are tre­mendously interested in the success­ful completion of the plans for the Rockne Memorial and the fact, that our financial contribution to date has not been larger is due to the recent depression which affected most of us personally and also made it impos­sible for us to date to attempt any of several plans we have in mind to raise substantial amounts in our re­spective communities by public enter­tainment of one kind or another. 
"The death of Bishop Finnigan was a great loss to us here. He found time somehow to be a good friend to each of us, and his encouragement of our Notre Dame Club was heartening. 
"Kindly give my very best regards to Father John Cavanaugh, who per­sonally saw me through an operation at Mayo's three years ago; to Father Stack and to so many others whom I hope to see again there before too long." 
NEW YORK 
With the election over and the Army game past, the ALUMNUS an­ticipates more news from the young men of Manhattan. 
No pretense is made of listing the part various alumni played in the campaign. Frank Walker's treasurer­ship of the Democratic National Committee is too well known. He was aided by the efficiency of Ambrose O'Connell. Tom and Ed Cunningham and Jack Walker represented the young men in the City campaign as members of the Young Voters Com­mittee at Judge O'Brien's headquar­ters in the Astor. Watts Eicher was Comptroller of the Stage and Screen Division of the Democrats, Eddie Dowling, chairman. 
Paul McGannon fought a valiant 
battle on the losing side with Col. 
"Wild Bill" Donovan. 
Politics to the ALU.MXUS, however, 
must be like the Grand Hotel to the 
Doctor, "People come, people go; 
nothing ever, happens." 
PHIL.A.DELPHIA 
October 6 the Philadelphia Club 
staged a big football rally. The new 
officers. Bob Reagan, president; Ed 
Bailey, vice-president, and Harry 
Francis, secretary-treasurer, hav e 
things humming. A letter from Harry 
Francis says: 
Dear Jim: 
First of all I want to thank you 
for your splendid cooperation in send­
ing those applications as they ar­
rived in good time. I promised to 
write you the next day but I have 
been confined at home with the 
grippe and this is the first day that 
I have been about. 
We had a marvelous time at our meeting and a large crowd, approxi­mately 50 alumni attended and lis­tened to the remarks of Martin Brill, Tom Conley, Bob Reagan, Ed Hun-singer and several other men. The press was represented by Ray Hill and we were fortunate in having an old friend of Rock's in the person of Bert Bell who is now backfield coach and assistant to Heinie Miller at Temple. Dan Sullivan a classmate of mine from Watkins Glen, New York attended. He is taking a course at Penn. Vince Donahue, Tom Magee, Bill Cooney, Joe Dalsey, Cliif Pro­dehl, all of the class of '32 became members of our gang. Joe Farrell traveled all the way from Harrisburg and Jim O'Donnell came the same distance just to be there. That is the 
N. D. Spirit. Jesse James was around wisecracking and whenever he happened to be still for a second the Degen brothers managed to chime in. 
Harry Stuhldreher has a nice look­ing outfit at Villanova this year, and even though he lost to South Carolina his team will rank with the best in the East. They snowed the powerful Gettysburg club under 32-0 and if they had showed the same stuff against the South Carolina boys they would still have been in the unde­feated column. 
Tom and Marty are making things hum here in the city. They are mak­ing rapid gains in football circles both as coaches and players. Marty is coaching and holding down a backfield position on the leading pro team and in his spare moments is attempting to sell cars. Both he and your informant are Plymouth dis­pensers. (Marty has since opened a couple of flower shops.) Tom gives football talks and predicts the results of the coming games over the radio and has met with success principally because of his frankness. He is the only coach I have heard who ever picks his own team to win and the funny part about it is the fact that he has never made a mistake as yet in any of these predicitons concern­ing his team. 
As you know John Neeson is still the guiding hand of our gang here in the city of Brotherly Love and he has kept our organization intact in every way. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 
The regular club meeting for No­
vember was cancelled in favor of the 
National Catholic Alumni Federation 
conference on Social Justice, and the 
sessions of that conference, November 
20, were attended by many of the 
alumni of the Valley. 
Plans for the annual football ban­quet are under advisement. So many factors enter the picture this year that President Ed Meehan is taking a very conser\'ative course. There seems, at this writing, little likeli­hood of the banquet being held before the holidays, due to the team's late game on the West Coast. 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 
Vince Brown, new secretary-treas­ure of the Club, writes to announce the results of the annual election. George L. "Duke" Kinney is the new persident. The election also pro\'ided the annual golf tournament setting. A spirited contest is reported, but not the winners. 
TWIN CITIES Joe Schroeder stopped in a minute on the way to the Northwestern game to say that Jack Doyle is the new president of the Tn-in Cites club and Bob Fogerty its secretary. A few Twin City notes from Bob confirm the welcome rumor. "Jack Elder was on the campus Nov. 12 to officiate at the St. Thomas-DePaul (Chicago) game, and while 
here made the usual great impres­sion. He spent considerable time in the company of Father Gallagan, much to the pleasure of both. 
"The DePaul game was the last on the schedule for St. Thomas. Joe Bo­land's lads turned in the usual splen­did season, turning in five victories and ending with a scoreless tie in the DePaul game. One of the losses was against the powerful North Dakota University eleven. There were eight games.. 
"Benny Connors, e.x. '20, was on the St. Thomas campus last week­end, as line coach with the DePaul team. 
"Joe Benda, '28, has done a great job up at St. John's University, Col­legeville, Minn., this year. His team won the Minnesota Conference cham­pionship. They weren't scored on dur­ing the whole season. 
"Father Bolger, vice-president of St. Thomas, has been giving a series of lectures over radio station KSTP as a part of the St. Thomas Faculty Hour series. 
"A. Lester Pieerce, JL.A.., '28, also gives a weekly radio talk over KSTP, under the title of the Counselor's Hour." This program has extended over the last eighteen months, and has enjoyed a constantly growing popularity. 
"Joe Schroeder, '28, and a number of other fellows were down to the Northwestern game, as you probably know. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
The Pitt game didn't take the pep out of the native Pittsburghers who happen to have left the home fires for a Notre Dame education, as ^Wtness the following news from John B. Reardon, secretary on that upsetting front: 
Following is a list of the officers of the Notre Dame club of Western Pennsylvania: 
John C. Sheedy, president: Edward J, Nevel, vice-president; L. H. FoUet, treasurer; John B. Reardon, secre­tary. 
The directors of the club are: John 
C. Sheedy, Leo A. Vogel, Dr. L. D. O'Donnell, B. J. Kaiser, Edward G. Byrnes. 
The next important affair on the club calendar is the annual New Year's Dance to be held at the Pitts­burgh Field club. This dance has be­come an institution in this district and is probably the most successful college club affair to be held during the Christmas Holidays. 
Many of our members will attend the Northwestern and Navy games. Among those who will occupy our bo.x at the Stadium for the Northwestern game are: Jimmie Devlin, Ed Byrnes, 
B. J. Kaiser, Charley Martin. 

WHEELING 

Wheeling is feeling the Notre Dame spirit as a result of considerable leadership by the small N. D. group thereabouts. A special to the Navy game took a goodly delegation of the citizenry to Cleveland to see Harris, Sheeketski and Bonar — practically home town boys for the Wheeling area—perform. It must have been gratifying. 
A supper dance on Oct. 11, pro­vided an outstanding social event for the club members. George Sargus, Al Zoellers, Tom Jordan and Leo Kletz­ley were in charge. 
THE SOCIAL CHALLENGE 
(Continued from Page 70) 

as the Sovereign Pontiffs have so constantly pointed out, and as Reason makes clear, are directly opposed to all Christian teaching. No one can follow the ways of Liberalism and be at the same time a practicing Cath­olic; and no one, as the Church so strongly emphasizes, can be at the same time both a true Socialist and true Christian. Listen to the word.^ of Pope Pius XI: 
"Whether Socialism be considered as a doctrine, or as a historical fact, or as a movement, if it really remains Socialism, it cannot be brought into harmony with the dogma of the Cath­olic Churchy even after it has yielded to truth and justice in the points v.-e have mentioned (i. e. class war and private ownership); the reason being that it conceives human society in a way utterly alien to Christian truth" (Q-A, 38). 
Nor must we be deceived by the platforms of Socialism, which do not necessarily contain all the ulterior ob­jects of this movement, but what it 's expedient to set before the voters. 
It is the philosophy underlying any movement which ultimately matters, and the false, materialistic philoso­phies of Socialism and Liberalism are equally abhorrent to the Christian mind. 
Man, according to our own Chris­tian teaching, has been created to praise, reverence and serve God, and so to save his soul; all other earthly things — industry and commerce not excluded — have but one single pur­pose, and that is, to aid him in the attainment of that end. These are Christian commonplaces. They make plain that man does not exist for in­dustry, but industry for man. 
Productive property of whatever kind is not therefore possessed for the sake of amassing profits, but that its owner can maintain himself and those dependent on him according lo a reasonable conception of his own state of life. Whatever remains over and above is strictly to be used for the common good. That is the uni­versal Christian doctrine. 
THE ALUMNI 
DEATHS 

C. V. GALLAGHER, a members of the Class of '67, former postmaster of Omaha, Nebraska, died recently in San Antonio, Texas at the age of S3. Mr. Gallagher was married to Miss Catherine Creighton, one of the members of the family for whom 
It does not imply that all man's superfluous income must be distrib­uted in alms, but that it must at all events be utilized or invested in such a way that it will truly serve as a public beneficence — opening avenues of employment, offering adequate family wages, preparing healthy and moral conditions of labor, and what­ever else can contribute to the social welfare. 
To bring home to the world of our day this twofold obligation, the in­dividual and the social, is our su­preme task. Overlooking the social aspect of ownership men fall into all the vices of individualism; disregard­ing its private and individual char­acter, they plunge instead into all the dangers and injustices of an enforced Collectivism. 
To save the world from these ex­tremes we must strive to lead it back into the ways of Social Justice and fraternal Charity, the way of Christ, without whom civilization will strive in vain to find salvation. But to do so we must make our own the wis­dom of those great Encyclicals in which we find set forth for our age the Church's Christian Social Mani­festo. 
With this accomplished, we are armed for our task. 
Like Ketteler and Ozanam we wel­come the challenge cast at us by our age. Our hearts beat high and our souls are lifted up at the thought of the glorious opportunities presented us to prove to all the world the truth of our Faith. 
Like Ketteler and Ozanam we glad­ly acknowledge that our age is right in the question it asks of us, the test it demands of us, the challenge it ilings at us: "Where are the works that prove your faith?" 
Like Ketteler and Ozanam may we also answer it—humbly, bravely, by the grace of God — in the way that men can understand, the angels ap­plaud, and Christ Himself shall rec­ognize when at the last He greets us with the words: "Amen, I say to you, as long as you did it to one of these my least brethren, you did it to me. Enter into the joys of the Lord." 
Creighton University is named. He was state senator in Nebraska for several terms and was appointed postnfester by Grover Cleveland in 1888. He had moved to San Antonio only last September. Six sons and four daughters survive. 
The ALUMNUS regrets to report the death of RT. REV. MSGR. ED­WARD J. MCLAUGHLIN, A.B., '75, A.M., '95, for many years pastor of St. Mary's Church, Clinton, Iowa, honorary president of the Associa­tion in 1915. Monsignor McLaughlin had always followed Notre Dame ac­tivities -vrith interest. He delivered one of the addresses at the Com­mencement in 1895, receiv^ing an A.M. on the twentieth anniversary of his graduation. 
GEORGE N. JOHNSON, a student in 1S91, St. Paul, Jlinn., died recently, (Continued on ne:ct paife) 
ALL-AMERICAN 

AU-Americans have already begun to dot the pages of the press. Joe Kurth, the big right tackle from Madison, Wis., has already been named on the N. Y. Sun's and the 
N. Y. World-Telegram's first such honorary elevens. George Melinko­vich, of Tooele, Utah, who convinced Army that "flu" is the past tense of "fly," was on the World-Telegram's second eleven. 
To the printer, and to the world— more to come. 
BASKETBALL 

Coach George Keogan added to his home schedule on Thanksgiving Day when he was married to Miss Ruby Jones of Mishawaka, Ind. 
However, lights in the gym indi­cate that George's honeymoon has been adapted to the season's require­ments, and that, except for the usual handicaps of late-coming stars from the football squad, etc., the season will open with a good team on the floor. 
according to word received in the Alumni Office. 
THOMAS F. HEALY, LL.B., '06, died at his home in Rochelle, 111., Nov. 15. The former football player had been practicing law and for a time was justice of the peace in Rochelle. 
DR. EDWIN RUTHVEN HEATH, LL.D., '19, died recently in Kansas City. Dr. Heath led an early adven­turous life of exploration in South America, discovering many routes of subsequent great commercial value. He covered the Amazon country twenty years before the famous Roosevelt expedition. For many years he had been the Bolivian consul in Kansas City. 
It was a pleasing and surprising, in some ways, announcement that Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, made at the Round Table of Federation of Catholic college men meeting here Nov. 20. Twenty-two per cent^-22% —of the requests for prayers in the Daily Religious Bulletin comes from alumni. When you consider the dis­tances, the professions and trades, and all the natural separations be­tween an alumnus and even a well-loved college like Notre Dame, it is a tribute to the Notre Dame man's religion that so many turn to the blessed campus for aid. 
Among the Bulletin's sad announce­ments recently were the deaths of the fathers of William Goelitz, '28, Rudolph Sturm, '30, Jack Fritzer, '30, WilUam Shannon, '30, William Dawes, '32; the mothers of Austin McNichols, '17, Charles Kroncke, '31, an imcle of Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16. 
Brother Albeus, C.S.C, died at the Community House, Notre Dame, Nov. 19, after a long illness. He was bom in Dublin in 1869, and educated there by the Irish Christian Brothers at their famous school in Richmond Street. For several years under the late Brother Alphonsus, C.S.C, he was a prefect in Brownson Hall. Later he became guest master at the University. May his soul rest in peace. 
BIRTHS 
MR. AND MRS. JACK COURT­NEY, '25, Dearborn, Mich., are the parents of a second boy, James Mc-Eriain, bom Nov. 13. This makes two boys and a girl for Jack and an unbeatable trio if you can believe the beam on the face of Grandpa E. J. McERLAIN, '90-'91. 
BERNIE FINNIGAN, '25, an­nounced in a casual P. S. recently that Eileen June was bom, appro­priately, June 7. 

As has happened in these columns before, MARY BROWNE DOOLEY, the daughter of BILL and Katherine. Terry DOOLEY, Calumet City, was such a good friend of the Editor that she lost her news value before her actual arrival. The column is there­fore pleased to emphasize the young lady's more lasting values to her mother and dad and brother Terry. Sept. 24 was the date, and Mary has permission to clip this paragraph and paste it in the November issue, where it belonged. 
MR. and MRS. WILLIAM MOORE, '26, 887 Lilley -Ave., Columbus, Ohio, are parents of a son, William Dennis, bom Nov. 10. Young Bill, with an SM, pound start, ought to be able to follow in the active footsteps of his father. 
Don't moan about your location at the season's games. You're lucky you didn't get Haskell tickets in your Southern California envelopes. But it's happily settled now and Margaret Mary Jones, bom Nov. 9, is putting up the one squawk during the foot­ball season that her papa, HERB JONES, assistant graduate manager of athletics, doesn't mind. Jane Ann, 4, Jimmy, 2, and baby Peggj% not to mention Mickey, the terrier, are fin­ishing out the season with Mrs. Jones while Herb tries to crowd all the Army and Southern Cal end seats be­tween the goal posts. 
A little dope from Milwaukee brings in late but welcome tidings of additions. MR. and MRS. FRANK HOLDAMPF, '28, have a baby girl, who ought to be about six months old when this reaches you. 
And HAROLD J. CLEARY, '17, has a seven months old boy who is the sixth son and the seventh child for the Clearys. The oldest 12, which means that Harold's mechanical en­gineering skill is taxed without go-going outside the home, if they take things apart in proportion to a couple of little lads the Editor knows. 
A telegram from PAUL ROM­WEBER, '25, on Nov. 10 states that "A son arrived at our house this morning. More prospects for N. D." Paul and Mrs. Romweber, plus the new arrival, live in Batesville, Ind. 
MARRIAGES 
One of the summer weddings that escaped the editorial survey was that of CHARLEY TOTTEN, '28, who was married in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame on July 27 to Miss Vir­ginia Bell. Charley and Mrs. Totten are both Pittsburghers but came out long enough for REV. RAYMOND CLANCY, C.S.C., to perform the ceremony, for a wedding trip, and then return to Pittsburgh, where Charley is in business. 
Relying on the bridegroom's own handwriting, the ALUMNUS ven­tures to report that T. VINCENT Mc-INTIRE, '30, who has been making Ohio's highways safe, launched him­self on the w. k. matrimonial high­way Nov. 22 with Miss Elizabeth Neuhart. St. Nicholas Church, Zanes­ville, was the spot. BOB WESCHLER, Vince's roommate was slated for best man, with TOM MURPHY as usher. Vince has set up the Mclntire house­hold at 1922 Hazel Ave., Zanesville, Ohio. 
FREDERICK L. CUNNINGHAM, JR., '30, Portland, Ore., was married there November 10 to Miss Lenore Marie McGrath. 
ARTHUR LARKIN, M.A. '32, phy­sical director of the Pittsfield, Mass., 
Y. M. C A., was married Nov. 23 lo Miss Elizabeth Brock, Springfield, 
•Mass. Art was graduated from the Springfield Y. M. C A. College and returned to South Bend, his home town, and took the M.A. from Notre Dame. 
Brief word comes from the Milwau­kee au b that CHARLES SCHUTTY, '29, was married several months ago. 
JOHN R. BROWN, '29, was recent­ly the successful candidate for the district attorney's job in Racine County, Wis. A responsible job in­dicating popular support at 25, three years out of college? Satisfied? Not John. REV. JAMES H. McDON-ALD, C.S.C, married John to Miss Evelyn Mary Nick, of Tomahawk, Wis., and the U. of Wis., on Nov. 26 in the Log Chapel at the University. BILL BROWN, John's brother, was married as per the November ALUM­NUS. Bill and John have what is evidently a very successful law part­nership in Racine, Brown and Brown. 
PERSONALS 
Before 1880 
In a political speech in Fitchburg, Mass., in October, SENATOR DAVID L WALSH, LL.D., '27, digressed to deliver a merited tribute to HON. THOMAS F. GALLAGHER, '76. Sen. Walsh declared that he knew of no man in public life who had given to the public service more «f himself or who had brought to them a great­er degree of honesty, integrity or up­rightness. 
1880-1885 
The. Editor had the misfortune to miss a visit with FRANCIS X. WALL, '80, Louisville, who was on the campus the week-end of the Northwestern game. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
1887 Northwestern game and was unable 1920 
WABKEN A. CARTIER was down for the dual events of the week-end of Nov. 12, the meeting of the Board of Lay Trustees on Friday, and the Northwestern game on Saturday. 
1895 

Going completely away from our 
chief source book of the month, the 
Northwestern game, we find a very 
interesting item, in the Coast and 
Geodetic Survey Bulletin for Oct. 31: 
"The National Geographic for Oct­
ober carries a map supplement of the 
Antarctic regions giving the results 
of the Byrd Antarctic expedition. 
Among the new features shown are 
mountain peaks named for H. G. 
Avers and H. C. Mitchell of the Coast 
and Geodetic Survey. They were 
members of the National Geographic 
Society committee of experts which 
determined that Admiral R. E. Byrd, 
Jr., U.SJJ., using airplanes, reached 
the North Pole in 1926 and the South 
Pole in 1929." 
Friends, of course, recognize HUGH 
C. MITCHELL, '95, as the party honored. Hugh Mitchell Peak is a prominent peak bet^veen Little Amer­ica and Edsel Ford Mountains. Ad­miral Byrd writes, "It is quite a land­mark, and explorers of the future down there will have occasion to speak of it." 
1896 

JUDGE H. L. FERNEDING of Dayton, Ohio, was at Notre Dame for the N. U. game and enjoyed the for­tunes common to all of us on that occasion, seeing part of those we sought and missing others. 
1897 

REV. JOHN A. MACNAMARA came down from Mount Clemens for the Northwestern game, returning there the following Monday. Father Mac attended the Navy game in Cleveland and has returned East to Garden City, from whence we expect news of the Army game. 
1904 

BYRON KANALEY was one of the Lay Trnstee-N. U. Game week-enders. 
DON O'KEEFE, faithful fan, was back for the peak game of the home season. The new baby in the Editor's family enjoys a mutual birthday with Don, and is, therefore, they both ad­mit, predestined for good. 
1905 

J. B. MORRISON, one of the fam­ily of Morrisons who were repre­sented at Notre Dame from 1876 un­til Denis Morrison was graduated in 1910, was one of those rare visitors who came in the day before the to stay for it. He was accompanied by JERRY CASEY, here from '09 to 'lo. 
DAN O'CONNOR was among the more fortunate throng who did make the game. 
1911 

FRED STEERS dropped into the Office for a minute after the North­western game to make a little mutual moan vrith the Editor over the Lost Tribe of '11. Bebveen the Republi­can debacle and the Class, it is a good thing N. D. won that game. 
1912 RAY ROBERTS, Carlisle, Ind., was a visitor in the Alunrni Office the week-end of the Northwestern game. JOSEPH McGLYNN was one of the fleeting genial visitors of the 
N. U. game. 
1915 

JIM SANFORD was in the office for a short visit the Northwestern week-end. Jim hasn't been so well, but the old pep is still there. A few Class notes secured without sub­poenas would probably make him blossom again. 
1917 

The medal of the Purple Heart, a symbol of distinguished service in the World War, was pinned on Captain JOSEPH F. GARGAN of Jamaica Plain by Governor Ely, at the Massa­chusetts State House, Nov. 2. 
Captain Gargan, a practising at­torney, served during the war in the 6th Regiment, U. S. Marine Corps. During the battle of Verdun he dis­tinguished himself when he volun­teered to go into No Man's Land and bring back the body of Charles E. Toth, corporal in the 95th Company, 6th Regiment, who had been shot in a raid the previous night. 
Captain Gargan had led the raid into the enemy's territory. Toth was the first marine killed in No Man's Land in the World War. Captain Gargan's record showed that he was obliged to crawl over the ground for several hours before finding the body and bringing it back to his own lines. 
Captain Gargan is a son-in-law of former Mayor John F. Fitzgerald, his wife being the former Agnes Fitz­gerald. His wife and their son, Jo­seph F. Gargan, Jr., were present Nov. 2 when the Ihirple Heart, a 
U. S. government award, was pinned on him by the Governor. 
Captain Gargan recently was ap­pointed liquidating agent of the Lowell Trust Company. His home is at 22 May street, Jamaica Plain. 
' DR. JOHN A. JENNEY is now lo­cated at the Folydinic Hospital in New York after a medical course at the U. of Vermont in Bndington. 
SHERWOOD DKON and WAL­TER MILLER were among the mem­bers of the Class upholding its pres­tige at the Northwestern game. 
192i The Office door opened the morning of the Northwestern game to admit one of the men who was a spotlight figure of football week-ends a decade ago, AL SLAGGERT, who gives the older generation one definite reason for saying to the current campus, "But you never saw Slaggert." 
1924 

PINKY O'BOYLE was one of the visitors at the Northwestern game, discovered accidentally across the counter of the Athletic Office. 
JOE "UTTLE DUTCH 11" BERG­MAN was also reported on the grounds at the time. 
This isn't discrimination to close the lists here. Other members of the aass flitted in the Stadium twilight, but failed to make themselves suffi­ciently visible to reprint. 
"Flying Colors" seems to be as applicable to CHARLEY BUTTER­WORTH'S new performance as it is to his new vehicle. The N. Y. Times says of him: 
"-A.nd Charles Butterworth is su-. perb. He is a travesty upon all the decisive qualities- that this country loves in its leading men. Since the days when he was feebly stammering before the Rotarians in the first "Americana" revue Mr. Butterworth has not clarified his mind very much. He is still yearning after a life that briskly eludes him. In "Flying Col­ors" he tries once to inquire his di­rection on a crowded New York thor­oughfare with only the scantiest per­sonal satisfaction, and once he has the privilege of harmonizing apa­thetically with Clifton Webb and Philip Loeb in a crooning sister act. But his Harvey Woofter Five Point Plan, by which he hopes to put the country on a paying basis again, is his most comic achievement. If yon know how little grasp Mr. Butter­worth has on any topic and how on-suited he is to the bluster of stump speaking, you will understand how ludicrous this number becomes. To listen to his frightened mumble of inconclusive phrases, to see his watery gestures and the pale twitch that passes for expression on his dead countenance and the worried blink of his eyes is to be soundly entertained. Mr. Butterworth is in a big town again. Those who cherish his feeble 
90 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
style of comedy hope that he will avoid the subways, which are confus­ing, and look in both directions be­fore he crosses the street." 
1925 
WILLARD JONES was one of the few out-of-towners. of the Class on the Northwestern week-end who seems to have remembered, by proxy, the old embatttled standard of the Class that waves on the main floor of the Administration Building. 
JOE HOGAN and JERRY HOL­LAND with organization and pub­licity sought to stem the Democratic tide from the Republican headquar­ters in South Bend, but lost a valiant battle in the general overthrow. TOM COMAN, on the Democratic News-Times, enjoyed similar hard labor but a TicbeT harvest, in fact such was the labor that Tom, with the other weary victors, enjoyed several days of re­cuperation and political what-have­you in the soothing environs of French Lick, long the mecca of Democracy. 
1926 
BIG JOHN McMULLEN, the pota­to king, was seen fleetingly, before the Northwestern game in front of the Dining Halls. Potato consumption there probably makes it sort of a shrine. 
1927 
MALCOLM HATFIELD, instructor of civics' in the Niles, Mich., high school, ran ahead of his ticket to win the county ofSce of judge of probate in the recent election, defeating a Buchanan attorney for the job. 
ELMER and MRS. BESTEN stop­ped by the -41umni Office the day of ' the Northwestern game. 
CHAMP VAUGHAN was another of the N. U. visitors. Champ is now located in Chicago, 79H S. Racine Ave. 
DICK HALFIN and FR.ANK PEN­DERGAST were among the Chicago­ans on deck to get the first-hand pleasure of seeing Northwestern taken. 
REV. HARRY RYAN succeeeded in getting away from new duties at St. Ambrose College, Davenport, long enough to make the N. U. game. 
A letter from WATTS EICHER brings news: Dear Jim: 
HARRY O'BOYLE is in tow. I dropped in Rosoff's for dinner last night and Harry hailed in. Of course I was very much surprised. He was with C Hubbard, whom I had met several years ago in Chicago. They are with the Green Bay Packers and are stopping at the Lincoln, which is on 8th Avenue, back of the Astor. In other words, we are neighbors. Harry says that JACK CHEVIGNY and TIM MOYNIHAN are also stop­ping at the Lincoln. The Cardinals are making that hotel their head­quarters as well. The Green Bay Packers will be in tovm for two weeks. 
I ran into TOM FINNIGAN of Jersey City on Broadway this after­noon. He was hurrying to keep a date. Tom is still with the John C. McNamara Organization. I also saw GEORGE CRONGEYER as I was turning in the Liggett Building. He is a busy brokerage supervisor. JIM RIZER claims that he is also working hard downtown at 17 John Street. I see BILL CRONIN often. As you know, Bill and Mrs. Cronin and their little one live at Forest Hills. JIMMY STACK has been in to see me several times and has taken care of several emergencies. Jo Cava­naugh inquires for JERRY HAYES, whom I reached by 'phone the other night to find that he still claims to be a bachelor, although Stack and I have serious doubts. 
Harry O'Boyle played in Boston Sunday and saw DUTCHY and FR.ANK HOLLAND as well as JOHN "STITCH" McMANMON. "Stitch" is coaching at Boston University and working with his father. Harry also saw ART MclLANMON. I haven't heard from John shice graduation. If you are writing him please give him my New York address. 
VINCE McN.A-LLY was on wth the St. Mary's team. He is looking fine, but felt a little blue over their losing the game in New York. 
1928 
Among the '28ers around and about for the Northwestern week-end were JOHN FREDERICK from Saginaw, HENRY HASLEY from Fort Wayne, AUGIE GRAMS from LaCrosse, J. 
J. MADDEN from Fort Wayne, and JOE LANGTON from Peoria. ROS­WELL LEAHY stopped by from Tiffin to enjoy the fray with the rest. 
A letter from BERNIE GARBER, G35 W. 115th St., New Y*ork City, strikes a welcome note from a far place—despite the hegira of Nov. 26. Dear Louie: 
Since it's the first of the month I think I'll begin paying some of the letters I owe. First, let me con­gratulate you on the new member in your family and e.xtend sympathy to you on the failure of the Republican party. Of course you can forget the latter in the joy of the former. And I owe you apologies for not acknowl­edging your letter of last Spring. 
With these greetings off my chest let me give you the low-down on some of ,our former fellow-sufferers. Pin-ally I have had a long-awaited letter. 
through the influence of DICK GREENE, N. D. journalist in Muncie, from DAVE GIBSON, favorite son of Plymouth, Indiana, who is doing well with Personal Finance Co. in Benton Harbor. Dave tells me of his son, who is now over one year old. 
DICK PARRISH, class playwright, took a boat from New York early in September and is now enjoying leisurely travel about Europe—and he may make it a round-the-world jaunt, checking up on British sun-settings, Verne, Halliburton and other tall-tale tellers. 
Momingside Heights is still fairly well controlled by N. D. fellows. JERRY PARKER still insists that California is the garden-spot of the universe, the Utopia, the Valhalla, etc., while JIM CONMEY and WALT LAYNE take turns in upholding or condemning Wall St. and the publish­ing game, respectively, according to their moods, apple-jack, and change-in-pocket. 
OLLIE SCHELL presents a very contented face and mutters a bit of German now and then, depending on the International situation. LARRY CULLINEY is still more than the well-dressed man and keeps an ex­tensive and proper address book. 
FRANK DOAN, since marriage, is living in Fairlawn, N. J., and, ac­cording to last reports, ART CANTY is also a Jerseyite, being in Newark, I think. JOE BREIG and his wife escaped from Vandergrift during the summer and called on Mr. Breig's literary agent, Mr. Layne. JOE (known as Francis to his family) CANNON has returned again to us from Vermont and spends some of his waking hours in law school. BUD CALLAGY, now a lawyer, is ^vith a law firm here in Gotham, but the name has escaped me. ANDY BOYLE, N. D. faculty member, was at Columbia this summer and con­tributed news to our division. JOHN McMAHON, an A. P. editor in Pitts­burg, tells me he is still hearing jibes because of that Pitt game but expects to forget for a few days when he comes here for the Army game. 
Someone recently mentioned class reunion next Spring and of course was immediately asked how long it took freights to make the trip. Per­haps Father Cox would be willing to lead back a group from the East. 
Maybe this letter isn't brief enough, Louie, but then it, like present pros­perity, can't go on forever. Best wishes to you, family, and friends. 
1929 
PAT MCLAUGHLIN and his younger brother FRED were on hand for the Northwestern battle. JOHN 

OPEN LEHER TO THE FATHER OF A *32 MAN 
(Continued from Page 83) 

The Alumni Association of Notre Dame is the single medium through which the Notre Dame graduate clings with any firm grip to Catholic education. It is an organiza­tion designed to give to the graduate continued progress and enjoyment of the profession­al, cultural and spiritual knowledge he acquired on the campus. 
Its effectiveness can only he in proportion to the participation of its memhers. Of these members, we ask five dollars a year. This includes nine issues of the AIUMNUS, like nine personal visits bringing news of campus, of Classmates, spiritual and intel­lectual advice. It includes the maintenance of records in the Alumni Office that keep together Local Clubs and Classes, through which no little practical aid has come to mem­bers. It could do much more. But not with the support of a minority of its logical mem­bership. 
Individual inabilities at all times, depression or not, are taken for granted. The ALCTiffifUS has come to your son, as it has to all '52 men, dues or no dues. We do not ask a member for back dues. Our financial policy has been out of all keeping v/ith efficiency, in an effort to cooperate with the young man and the man in straits. 
We do feel that their obligation exists. Many alumni could fulfill it v/ho do not. Five dollars is not a great deal to ask. The Living Endowment Ihmd is only a very modest and voluntary appeal to alumni to enable Notre Dame to progress. They share defi­nitely in her reflected glory. It is a plan which substitutes a sane, proportionate participation in the University's financial program, as against the old system of secur­ing pledges under campaigns and hysteria of loyalty which caused alumni great embar­rassment in fulfillment. Our plan for this year permits 85% of our alumni to ignore the Fund completely, which seemed generous enough at the time. 
All this is a bit drawn out. 
Summarized, these points stand out: We wish the Class of '32 to feel equal in every way in Association affairs; vie believe that, economically, an equal percentage of' our older alumni have suffered; we feel that the amount asked is within the reach of the majority of all our alumni, involving the continuity of an institution v/hich will bring far more to them than many of the social customs and institutions in which they invest greater suns; the Association is forced to stand alone financially, which means depend­ence upon its membership;vie maintain that in its practical and potential aspects, the Association is far more than justified; we believe it is essential to the full realiza­tion of the training of a Notre Dame man; and, v/hat is probably most important to the young men in whose cause you write, we have never deprived a deserving member of the benefits of the Association because of unpaid dues, 
James E. Armstrong Alumni Secretary 
T. KEAENS took, time off from the State Highway Coramission's Elgin office to make the same trip. NORM JENKINS, ex-'29, was up from Rich­mond, Ind., for the same blessed event. MARK WONDERLIN came out from Des Moines and can face his neighboring lowans with something to talk about. 
1930 
Jobs must be haunting the Class of '30. Only LARRY ENRIGHT, JERRY REIDY and RUSSELL LEAHY seera to have come under the surveillance of the ALUMNUS week­end staff. 
It's bad business, '30, when your faithful scribe fails to send in at least a tear or two for lack of news, and we haven't had a word from good old BERNIE. 
1931 
Free time seems more utilized by the '31 men who were down in goodly numbers for the N. U. week-end. TOM MONAHAN, JIM DOYLE, JOHN BELTEN, FRANK (and Mrs.) HENNEBERGER, BOB PENDER­GAST, BILL BROWN, LARRY MUL­LINS, MART DOWNEY, BERNIE LAHEY, PIERRE ANGERMEIER, BOB KUHN, BOB MASSEY and RAY MANIX. Note: Mrs. Henne­berger was probably not the only helpmate on the list, but she was the only one seemingly signed on the dotted line. Bob Kuhn is practicing law in Lima, 0. 
LEWIS O'SHEA is representing the Anacin Co., Chicago. 
TOM IvASSIS can be reached Bo.x 95, Cheyenne, Wyo., where a recent card gives his occupation as dry goods manager. 
JOE SCHROEDER stopped in from Minneapolis for the N. U. week-end. He had a lot of dope and time squeezed in from both sides to force a lot of it to be omitted. 
JIM COMEFORD is lecturer for the Ifnights of Columbus in Val­paraiso and is enjoying that good old profession that is working its way up through the mortgages into a bet­ter and brighter light—gentlemen, I give you Agriculture. 
One of the visitors to the National Catholic Alunmi Conference on Sun­day, Nov. 20, at Notre Dame was DAN WILLLAMS, who came down ivith the delegation from St. Norbert College, West De Pere, Wis. Dan is teaching English an d economics there, giving radio lectures, and otherwise making splendid academic progress. He reported JOHN NAN­OVIC as the editor of "The Shadow" magazine. 

TOM GOLDEN sends in some very welcome news, from the Hennessy Co., "Montana's greatest store," Butte, Mont., where Tom is handling the General Electric appliance de­partment. Dear Jim: 
I have just read the last issue of the ALUMNUS and find that news of the class of '31 is rather at a premium, so I thought a letter at this time would be fitting. 
Just lately I had the very great pleasure of meeting a man—a Notre Dame man, who in my estimation is a shining example of all that is taught and practiced at Notre Dame. He is SAM DOLAN, '09, an instructor at the Oregon State College at Cor­vallis, Oregon. We happened to sit next to one another in the hotel lobby here the morning of the Montana University-State College game. In the course of the conversation I learned that he had come to referee the big (it's THE game here) game. I later learned that he was an N. D. man and it seemed from that mo­ment on every move and action pro­claimed him as such. I can very frankly say that I have never met a man that has made such a lasting impression after so short an acquaint­anceship. 
Mr. Dolan is certainly a credit to the University and meeting men like him makes me proud of my own affiliation. 
I also talked to FRANK WALICER while he was in Butte. He is another whom I feel privileged to know. 
BILL JONES who is coaching at Carroll College has made a splendid showing this year in spite of the de­feats by both the State College and University. In each game Carroll very noticeably outplayed their opponents but they didn't get the "breaks." When one considers that Bill had less than 30 men to pick from in organizing his squad all will agree that he is to be commended. 
Had a letter from JIM COLLINS in the interest of a man he was sup­porting for office. His man got in." 
Members of the Class are urged to read the following letter from the Class Secretary. The ALUMNUS doesn't expect the Class Secretaries to be news agencies. They receive nothing but grief. If the Class en­joys this column, as most Classes en­joy the news of their Classmates, it has to co-operate with the Secretary in sending him the dope. John's let­ter is not a new cry of distress to this Office, but it is a sincere one with which the Office sympathizes. This is your column. If you want it, you have a fellow willing to give time and effort to make it interesting. Give him a break. You'll be pleasant­ly surprised. 
Dear Jim: 
You must think that I have failed 
entirely in my secretarial work. If 
success is measured by the quantity 
of material garnered, I must admit 
failure. But Jim, since last April 1 
have had but one letter from my 
classmates. I live in a district which 
isn't overly crowded with Notre Dame 
men, and if the fellows don't keep in 
touch w^ith me the column of '31 must 
necessarily be as barren of news as it 
has been for the past two issues. 
I'm new to the work, Jim, and if you know any method by which I might stir up a little enthusiasm I'd be pleased if you could tell me. As I understand it, I believe that you have some sort of a form letter which is sent out to various members of the class, calculated to arouse some in­terest in the class and the column. I believe that this would be an appro­priate time to follow this procedure, because interest seems to be at its lowest ebb now. 
I don't want you to think that I have failed, even though appearances tend toward that explanation. I realize the difficulty of your work, since your difficulties must be the same as mine on a magnified scale, and I'm only too willing to write a column every month, if I have the material to incorporate in it. With­out news it is impossible for me to write a column. So, Jim,I would ap­preciate it if you would write and give some plan whereby I might do something to get the class interested in the column. 
The one letter I received was from JOE WILIC, who is now teaching in the high school at Adams, Mass. 
Kindest personal regards. 
John Boland. 
1932 
The Northwestern week-end brought the Class of '32 its first big drawing card for a return to the campus. Those who answered, in part are: PETE STREB, BERNIE HEITZ, JACK WITLIFP, MARTY HECK­ARD, KELLY and OLIVER POW­ERS, GENE HOWERY, FRANK OBERKOETTER, BUD DYNIEWICZ, DICK OELERICH, BENJAMIN SAL­VATY, GERARD HODGES, HENRY 
B. ASMAN, JOHN KEENEY, FRANK MURRAY, DON PARTLAN, AL McEACHERN, CHARLEY SPAN­GENBURG, NEIL HURLEY, HEN­RY THOLEN, IICE TERRY, LEN DONOGHUE, BOB HILGER, BUD GROVES. 
A letter from JERRY CONWAY states that Jerry is safely embarked at N. Y. U. and is attempting to soften the astute wolf with some of the advertising appeal of Brown Bigelow. 

End of Rasputin 
In 1916, the Russian Imperial Court, con­fronted with reverses at the Front, restless conditions throughout the country, needed a great leader, drew instead a charlatan, Grigori Efimovitch Rasputin. 
Combination medicine man, "mughik," priest, petty politician and lecher, Rasputin had lit­erally lifted himself by his own boot straps from a lowly palet in a sod cottage in Pok­rovskoe, Siberia, to the most ornate and elab­orate beds in Imperial Russia. Endowed with an amazing personal magnetism, and an almost supernatural power over women, both bodies and souls, he is reputed to have repeatedly cured the puny haemophilic Tsarevitch, there­by gaining complete control over the Czarina. Russia, guided from behind the scenes by the miracle worker from Pokrovskoe, steadily sledded down hill, while opposition to Raspu­tin crystallized in a powerful group of the nobility. 
As TIME, had it been printed in December 1916, would have reported subsequent events: 
As most Russians were on their way to bed one night last week, a closed car came to a stop at the side entrance of Prince Felix Yusupov's palace. Two heavily wrapped men hurried inside. One, tall, with unkempt beard and hair, dirty stained cloak, was Rasputin, Russia's mysterious power behind the throne. The other, slight, dapper, well dressed, was Prince Yusupov, husband of Grand Duchess Irina, most beautiful woman in Moscow. 
For many months, lecherous Rasputin had heard of the beautiful Grand Duchess Irina, was especially delighted at the possibility of a private meetingwith her. As the two entered a small downstairs dining room the Prince explained to Rasputin that his wife was entertaining friends, would join them soon. 
While Yusupov listlessly strummed a guitar Ras­putin consumed a plate full of small cakes, and in them enough cyanide of potassium to fell a squad of Cossacks. Every minute expecting to see the Si­berian priest pitch headlong onto the floor, Yusupov became unnerved, excused himself saying he would bring his wife. 
Quickly getting a revolver from a friend upstairs, the Prince returned, shot Rasputin through the chest, immediately rushed back to his friends to revive his ebbing courage with a strong drink. Returning later with his friends, he found the room empty. In the middle of the snow covered court yard they found Rasputin, crawling, a trail of blood behind him. Frenzied, they shot and pummelled him into uncon­sciousness, tied his hands and legs. Throwing him into a car they drove to the Neva River, unceremon­iously dumped the body in. 
Three days police searched for the body while Yusupov at first protested innocence. Finally the body was recovered, the lungs filled with water, showing that Rasputin was alive when- thrown into the water. 
Yusupov finally admitted, then proudly boasted, of carrying out the assassination, and many rejoiced, but on the lips of Rasputin's followers is bis oft repeated statement: "So long as I live, the Imperial Family will live, when I die, they will perish." 
So, too, would TIME have reported how Yusupov was dismissed without punishment by the vaccilating Czar; how, 5 months after Rasputin's death. Imperial Russia ceased to exist; how chaos followed turmoil, the Bol­shevik coup d'etat followed chaos. 
TIME 
The Weekly Newsmagazine 
YEARLY SUBSCRIPTION $5.. 135 EAST 42nd STREET, NEW YORK CITY.. 15 CENTS AT ALL NEWSSTANBf 
LOCAL ALUMNI CLUBS 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKRON—Glen Smith. '27, 101 Oakdalc Ave. Akron. President: C. J. McGuckin. '28. Medina Road. Akron. Secretari". 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARIZONA— James D, Barry, '97. S2 W. PonninKton St.. Tucson. President; Steve Rebeil. '25. 620 N. Sixth St.. Tucson, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARICANSAS— Rev. Geo. F. X. Strassner. '14. Hope. President: Burt L. Roberts. 1325 Lincoln Ave,. Little Rock. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BENGAL—Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C., '02. Dac­ca. President; Rev. J. J. Henessey. C.S.C.. Dacca. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON — Charles Crowley. '21. 40 Mill St.. Dor­chester. Mass. President; James R. Doo­ley. '22. 36S Main St., North Andover, Mass., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BRIDGEPORT —John M. Murphy. '27, SB Liberty St.. Bridgeport, Conn, (temporarychairman). 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BUFFALO— Martin Ryan. '28. 21 Orchard Place, Buf­falo, President; C. J. Imin, Jr., "29. 325 AVashington St.. Buffalo. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CALU­MET DISTRICT—William L. Voss. Jr.. '23. 15521 Vine Ave.. Haney. III., Presi­dent; William R. Dooley. '26. 245 Lawn-dale Ave., Hammond. Ind.. Secretarj'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CAPITOL DISTRICT—John J. Mcijrhan. President; 
F. L. Duquette. '28, 1074 Glenwood Blvd.. Schenectady, N. Y.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO — James Ronan. '26. 4306 W. North Ave.. ChicaRo. President: Robert D. Stephen. '27, 5906 N. Hermitaae St.. Chicago. Sec 
NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF CINCINNATI —Robert HuKhes. '29. 3565 Burch -\ve.. President: W. D. Morrissey. '26. Cath­olic Charities Bureau. Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND —^Thomas F. Byrne. '28. 750 Huron Rd.. President: Clayton G. Lcroux. 3356 Daleford Road. Heights Branch. Qeve­land. Sccretaray. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CON­NECTICUT VALLEY-William J. Gran-field. '13. State BIdK.. 1200 Main Street. Sprineficld. Mass.. President: James A. Curry. '14. 647 Main St., Hartford, Conn., Secretary, 
NOTRE D.AME CLUB OF DAYTON — Robert Ohmer. Dayton. President: An­drew A. Aman. Jr.. '30. 210 Lexington Ave., Dayton, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER— David Hickey, '28, 1515 Grant St.. Presi­dent; O. L. Hough, '27. 1575 Race St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DES MOINES —Earl Walsh. '22. Dcs Moines Catholic College. President: Charles H. Lynch. 
•28. 1429 - 13th St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT — John E. Moore. '08, Third Floor. General Motors BIdg.. Detroit. Mich., President: Paul J. Dooley, '25, 148 Pallister, Detroit, Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUJIBIA—Dr. J. A. Flynn. El. '12. 151J R. L Ave.. N. W., Washington, President; James D. Hayes. 51IS Eighth St., N. W., Washington. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ERIE, PA.— Richard D. Daley. '17. Eric Daily Times. President; 'Thomas Barber, '24, 416 Newman SL, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FORT WAYNE —Frank J. Gilmartin, '01. 336 W. Wool-and Ave.. President: Robert Eggeman. 
•30, Old First Bank Bldg., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GREEN BAY —Harold L. Londo, '24, City Engineers' Office. City Hall. Green Bay. Wis.. Presi­dent ; Levi A. Gcniesse. '24. 510 Minahan Bldg.. Green Bay, Wis., Secretary-
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GRAND RAP­IDS, SnCH.—George E. Ludwig. '25. 328 Glenhaven Ave,. N. W., President; Ray­mond J. Bonini. '27, 2460 Oalcwood Dr., 
S. E.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HAMILTON. OHIO—M. O. Bums. '86. 338 S. Second SL, President: Marc A. Fiehrer, '27, 701 Rentschler Bldg., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP HIAWATHA­LAND—Norman Bartholomew, '15, 225 Cleveland Ave,, Iron Mountain, Mich.. President; Michael S. Corry. '27, 837 Terrace Ave.. Marinette. Wis.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HOUSTON— 
M. E. Walter. '14. 1702 Stuart Ave.. Houston, Texas, President: T. F. Green. Jr., '27. 407 Sterling Bldg., Houston. Texas, Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIANAP­OLIS—Robert Kirby. '29. 1901 N. Merid­ian. Indianapolis. President; John T. Rocap. '30, Fidelity Trust Bldg.. In­dianapolis. Secretary. 
NOTRE D.VME CLUB OF JOLIET—Wil­liam Bossingham. '25. 408 Buell St., Joliet, HL, President; Ed King. 301 Ruby St.. Joliet. Secretary'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS CITY —Daniel F. Foley. '23, 25 Wint Ave.. Ft. Leavenworth. Kansas. President: John 
M. Dugan. '27, 4427 Tracy St., Kansas City, Mo.. Secretarj*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS—Al­bert J. Gehert. '30. U. of Kansas, Wich­ita. President: Dan Welchons. '30, 306 
E. I3th St., Hutchinson. Kansas. Sec'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KENTUCKY— 
H. R. Dempf. '23. 400 M. E. Taylor Bldg., Louisville, President: Wm. A. Reisert. '30, 2102 Qierokee Pkwy., Louis­ville, Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF KANE COUNTY —^William B. Chawgo, '31, Northwestern Muttjal Life Insurance Co., 303 Graham Bldg,, Aurora, 111.. Secretary pro tem. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOS ANGELES -^John W. Wadden. '07, 7107 Sunset Blvd.. President: Laurence A. Moore, '29, 1465 W. 50th St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOUISIANA­MISSISSIPPI—P. E. Burke. "88. 307 Camp St.. New Orleans, President: Cyp­rian A. Sporl, Jr., '28. Whitney-Central Bldg., New Orleans, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MANILA—Al­fonso Zobel, '24, c/o Ayala & Cia, 21 Calle Juan Luna, Manila, President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MEMPHIS— Hugh Magevney, Jr.. 1878 Union Ave., President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP MILWAUKEE —WilUam J. Redden, '14, 3525 W. North Ave., Milwaukee, President: Charles O'Neil. '27, 607 W. Walnut St.. Mil­waukee, Secretarj'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MONTANA— Hon. Albert J. Galen, '96, 435 Qark St., Helena, President: James B, O'Flynn, '11, Great Falls, Mont.. Secretary. 
NOTRE D.4ME CLUB OF NASHVILLE —Robert P. Williams. Jr.. '29. 106 Gal­latin Rd., Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEBRASKA— Gerald J. Barret. '22. 315 S. 37th St., Omaha, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP NEW JERSEY William Carter, '27, 68 Fourth St., South Orange, N. J„ President: Joseph Nulty, "27, 105G Arlington Ave., PLiinfield, N. J., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK—John E. Kenney. '21. care Foster Wheeler Corp.. 165 Broadway. New York City, President: J. Norbert Gelson. "26. 1201 Troy Ave.. Brooklyn. 
N. Y.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTHERN CALIFORNIA —John S. Mclnnes. '22. 1855 Sacramento Street, San Francisco, President: Mark Kreutzer, '24, 311 Cali­fornia St„ San Francisco, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF OREGON—Gen­eral J. P. O'Neil. 'S3. Array Recruiting Station. Second and Washington Sts.. Portland. President: L. Bernard Macnab. '25. Termin.il Sales Bldg.. Portland, Sec'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO—R.i>-mond J. Eichenlaub. '15. Hoster Realty Bldg., Columbus. Presi­dent. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OKLAHOMA— Thomas F. Shea. o. s., '09, 902 El-change Natl. Bank. Tulsa. President: Leo A. Schumacher. '13, King Wood Oil Co., Okmulgee, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PARIS—Hold­ers of Permanent Seats; Louis P. Harl. '16. Paris Office. N. Y. Herald. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADEL­PHIA—Robert Reagan, '24, 502 Cecil St.. Canonsburg. Pa., President: Harry H. Francis, Jr., '3."), 15 Spring Ave.. -Ard­more. P.t., Secretarj'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PEORLV. ILL. —^Dr. Joseph F. Duane. '99, 418 Jeffer­son Bldg., President: John A. Noppen­berger, 223 Heading Ave.. Secretari-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCHESTER -—Thomas Ashe. '31, 226 Glen Ellyn Way, Rochester, President; Ra>-mond D. Downs. '26. 46 Clinton Ave., S.. Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Sherwood Dixon. '20, 120 E. First St, Dixon, HI., President: J. Wil­lard Jones. '25. 122 Crawford Ave.. Dixon. HL, Secretarj*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE ST. JO­SEPH VALLEY—Edward J. Meehan, 
•20. South Bend Tribune. South Bend. Ind.. President; Thnothy Benitz.'31.1341 E. Wayne, N., South Bend, Ind., Sec'y. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ST. LOUIS— Leo Sutliffe. '24. 2701 So.'Grand. Presi­dent; Robert Hellrung. '30, 7214 North-moor Drive, University City, Mo., Secy. 
(Continued on next page) 

List of Class Secretaries Local A lumni Clubs 
(Continued) 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SIOUX CITY— Vincent F. Harrington. '23, Contincntai MortgURe Co., President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL NEW YORK—Geoi-RO 
L. Kinney, '20, 1919 S. State St., Syra­

cuse, President: Vincent Brown, '23, 1S14 James St., Syracuse, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SOUTHWEST­ERN TEXAS—Harold Tynan, '27. 240 
E. Huisacke Ave.. San Antonio, Tc:cas. President: Kirwin J. Williams, *28, 105 
E. Rosewood, San Antonio, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TIFFIN, OHIO —C. J. Schmidt, '11, 260 Melmore St.. President: Fred J. Wasner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TOLEDO— John P. Hurley, '2S, 1420 Colline-wood Ave., Toledo, President: Fred A. Sprenccr, 3129 Kimball Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE TRI­CITIES—Richard B. Swift, '20, Kohl Bids., Davenport. la.. President: Henry 
M. McCulloUBh, •20. 26 McCuIlough Bids.. Davenport, lo., Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRIPI,E CI­TIES—Allen IL Maliar. '28. 53 Arch St., Johnson City, New York, President: John D. O'LouEhlin. 'o.s., 24, 506-7 People's Trust Company Bids., Bins­hamton, N. Y*., Secretary. 
TWIN CITIES NOTRE DAME CLUB— John J. Doyle. '2S. President: Robert FoKCrty. 28. College ot St. Thom.is, St. Paul, Minn., Eocretar>-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTAH—Ray­mond R. Brady. "24, 206 Kenms Bide., Salt Lake City. President: Cyril Har­beckc. '19. 64 F. St., Salt Lake City, Sec. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE WABASH VALLEY—Noble Kiier, '25. Purdue Uni­versity, Lafayette, Ind., President: Peter Vost, Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA-Leo R. Mclntyre. 
•28. Bethlehem. Pa.. Temporary Chair­man : Charles B. McDermott, *27, Allen­town, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN PENNSYLV.VNIA-John C. Shcedy, '28. 5540 Bryant St., Pittsburith. President: John B. Reardon, '22, 715 Union Bank Bids.. Pittsbursh. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN WASHINGTON—Dr. Clarence Shannon, 
O.8. '02: Stimson Bids., Seattle, Wash., President: E. Slorris Starrett '14-'2I. El. '23. 801 Washington St.. Port Town­send. Wash.. Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WATERBURY —Georse A. Caflney. '9S-'99. 54 Park PL, Watcrbury. Conn.. President: James M, Monashan. '27. 44 Ayer St.. Water­bury. Conn.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WHEELING. 
W. VA.—Thomas F. Howley. '11. Citi­zens-Peoples Trust Co.. Whcclins. Presi­dent: George Snrgus, '23, 2111 Belmont, Bellairc, Ohio. Secretary. 

THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME—Sister JL Agnes Alma, O. P.. Mt. St. Mary-on-the-Hudson, Newburgh. New York. President: Miss Rose Stef­faniak. 161 Walnut St.. Coldwater. Mich., Secretarj'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF YOUNGS-TOWN—John J. Kane. Jr.. '25. 1018 First National Bank, President: Norman Smith, '24, 126 Rostyn Dr., Secretary. 
Year Name 
Before 1880 Hon. Thos. F. Gallagher 1880-85 Prof. Robert M. Anderson 1886 Michael O. Bums 1887 Hon. Warren A. Cartier 18S8 John L. Heineman 1889 P. E. Burke 1800-93 Louis P. Chute 1894 Hugh A. O'Donnell 1895 Eustace Cullinan. Sr. 1896 William P. Bums 1897 Rev. .lohn MacNamara 1898 Wm. C. Kesler 1889 Dr. Joseph F. Duane 1900 John W. Eggeman 1901 Joseph J. Sullivan 1902 G. C. Mitchell 1903 Francis P. Burke 1904 Robert Proctor 1905 Daniel J. O'Connor 1906 Thomas A. Lolly 1907 T. Paul McGannon 1908 Frank X. Cull 1909 E. P. deary 1910 Rev. M. L. Moriarty 1911 Fred L. Steers 1912 Benjamin J. Kaiser 1913 James R. Devitt 1914 Frank H. Hayes 1915 James E. Sanford 1916 Timothy P. Galvin 1917 John U. Riley; 1918 John A. Lemmer 1919 Clarence Bnder 1920 Leo B. Ward 1921 Alden J. Cusick 1922 • Gerald Ashe 1923 Paul Castner 1924 James F. Hayes 1925 John W. Scallan 1926 Dr. Gerald W. Hayes 1927 Edmund DeQercq 1928 Louis Buckley 1929 Joseph McNamara 1930 Bem.ird W. Conroy 1931 John E. Boland 
1932 Herbert Giorgio 
Address 

Fitchburg. Mass. 
Gircleville, Ohio 
338 S. Second St., Hamilton, Ohio 
Ludington, Michigan 
Connersvillc, Indiana 301 Camp St.. New^ Orleans, La. 7 University Ave., Minneapolis. Minnesota 
The New York Times, New York City 860 Phelan Bldg., San Francisco, Calif. 327 Willard Ave., Michigan City, Indiana 16 Elm St.. Garden City, L. I., New York. 9th and Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati, Ohio. 418 Jefferson Bids.. Peoria. Illinois 1201 First National Bank Bids., Fort Wayne, Ind. 1300, 139 N. Clark St , Chicago, Illinois 110 S. Dearborn St.. Box 3. Chicago, III. 904 Trust Company Bids.. Milwaukee, Wisconsin Monger Bids-, Elkhart. Indiana 10 S. LaSalle St., Chicago. Illinois 811-13 Paulsen Bids.. Spokane, Washington Bar Bldg., 36 W. 44th St. New York City Buckley Bldg.. Cleveland, Ohio 
P. O. Box 556, Momence, Illinois 527 Beall -Ave.. Wooster, Ohio 1635 First National Bank Bids., Chicago, Illinois 324 Fourth St, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 921 Ensineers Bids., Cleveland. Ohio 1055 Granville Ave.. Chicago, Illinois 1033 S. Linden Ave., Highhind Park, III. 708 First Trust Bids., Hammond, Indiana Bos 86, Cohasset, Mass. 1110 - Sth Ave.. S., Escanaba, Michigan 650 Pierce St, Gao*. Indiana 1012 Black Bids.. Los Angeles, California 1 Park Ave., New Y'ork City 1024 Monroe Ave.. Rochester. New York 313 Napoleon Blvd., South Bend, Indiana Fifth Avenue Ass'n. Empire State Bldg.. N. Y. City Pullman Co.. 79 E. Adams St, Chicago, HI. 38 N. 12th St. Newark. New Jersey S12S Dre-xel Blvd., Chicago, Illinois 718 E. Corby St, South Bend, Indiana 231 Wisconsin St , Indianapolis, Indiana 1055 Park Ave,, New York City 3624 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Notre Dame, Indiana. 
District Governors 
District Xamc 
I Frank E. Hering 
II John W. Costello III John P. Jlurphy rV William J. Redden 

V Don P. O'Kccfe VI John H. Nceson VII Ambrose O'Connell Vn l Gerald A. Ashe IX Hon. Wm. J. Granfield X Hilton Goodwyn XI Harry Mehrc 
Xir W. N. Bosler Xn l Twomey Cliilord XIV Arthur T. Simpson 
XV John L. Corley XVI Walter Duncan XVII Hon. Albert J. Galen XVIII Raymond M. Humphreys XIX Terence B. Cossrove XX Dr, J. M. Toner XXI Emmett Lenihan 
XXII C. C. Fitzserald 
Address 

Dean Bids.. South Bend. Ind. 
57 E. 2Ist St, Chicago. 111. 
Terminal Tower, Cleveland, Ohio. 3523 West North Ave., Milwaukee, Wis. 
Chev. Motor Co.. General Motors Bids., Detroit, Mich. 
City Hall Annex, Philadelphia, Pa. 
1600 Bro.adway. New York City. 
1024 Monroe Ave., Rochester, New York. 
1200 Main St, Springfield, Mass. 2110 Bast Grace St. Richmond, Va. University of Georsia. Athens. Go. 1001 Hcyburn Bids- Louisville. Ky. 
Camden. -Arkansas 208 Southwestern Life Bldg.. Dallas. Texas. 4463 Lindell. St. Louis. Missouri. 658 First St, La Salic, HI. 435 Clark St, Helena, Mont. 1423 Race St., Denver. Colo. Los Angeles Athletic Club, Los Angeles, Calif. 3197 SLxtcenth St., San Francisco, Calif. County-City Bldg.. Seattle, Wash. La Sletropolitana. 242. Havana. Cuba. 
99 
(Uft 
'I 

I
FORGOT my galoshes, but I'm going along in the rain... having a good time... smoking my Chesterfields. Just downright good cigarettes. They're milder and they taste better. Just having a good time. They Satisfy. 
e 1932, LIGGETT & MVERS TOBACCO CO. 









