The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE D A JI E ALUMNUS Seiitember, 1929 

When You Come to See the Games in CHICAGO 
Enjoy Your Stay to the Utmost—at the 

MORRISON HOTEL 
Madison and Clark Streets 
Tallesi Hotel in the World—46 Stories High 
A TO doubt you are already making plans for October 19, and November 9, 16 
•^ * and 23. These games Avill all be played in Chicago—against Wisconsin, Drake, Southern California, and IN orth western. 
All "Downtown" at Your Door To make the most of your trip, stop at the JIoiTison Hotel. No other leading hotel in the city gives such quick and convenient access to the majority of the downtown theatres, stores, and railroad terminals. 
Rooms, $2.50 up, Each With Bath The sti-ategic location has so enhanced the revenues from subrentals that they jjay all the ground rent, and the saving is passed on to the guests. Rooms are rented at a fraction of the rate charged at other leading hotels for similar rooms. Every room is outside, with bath, circulating ice-water, bed-head reading lamp, telephone and Servidor. Every floor has its own housekeeper, and garage accommodation is abundant. 
The Terrace Garden and Boston Oyster House The fame of this historic location is largely due to the individual character of the Boston Oyster House, a Chicago landmark for over half a century. The Terrace Garden, also, has won national celebrity with its delicious menus, viva­cious dance music, and brilliant enter­tainments. The Cameo Room, seating 2000, offers ideal conditions for fraternity 
meetings and banquets. 
The Xriv Morrison, ivhvn coiiiphtcii, iL'iU be the irurht'< lar'fsl atnl taUe.^t hotel, 1*5 ^toriea liitih. telth :: In" roe'ir: 
Write for Rescrvatiuns cr Telephone Franklin 9600 
..Q 

....Q B 
B 

INVESTMENT SECXJEITIES 
CHASE NATIONAL BANK BUILDING TWENTY PINE STREET 
NEW YORK Cmr 

HARRY J. CULLEN, '23 Louis E. WAGNER, '18  
B­B"  
Notre Dame Club Of the City of New York  
One of the finest units of the Notre Dame Alumni Annual Dues $5  

Charles E. Doyle & Co. 

ALLERTON Club Residences  
Headquarters for Notre Dame Men  
New York ­ Chicago Cleveland  
WEEKLY RATES TRANSIENT RATES $12.00 to $22.00 $2.50 to $3.50 EXECUTIV E OFFICE: 285 Madison Ave., New York  
••B.,B  B B  B B  





Marquette Club 
Dinner Dances 1929-1930 
Oct. 19  The St. Regis  
Nov. 30  McAlpin  Roof  
Dec.  31  ...Hotel  Plaza  
Feb.  15  The St. Regis  
March  17  Hotel  Plaza  

Dues reduced to only $5 a year. 

MARQUETTE CLUB 
11 East Thirty-Eghlh Street 
22 East Thirty-Eighth St. 
At Madison 
NEW YORK 

7iv<M"*'Mi'wwii«iv<Q pJ'iMMulMitiMMiiiiiAiiiumn ..Q 
September, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
IIIIIIIIIIMIDIIIItltllllDIII llllllllKtIlllllllllllllllliillliilll 
-e 


^ SPEAKERS 

'-^-^'A/EVEB-^ 
"Choice of LeadingStatloay ^ Radios* ItuuuUktc ^ 





fALLERTOS HOUSE] 
TOlNQRTHMIOfnSAN AVENUE­
CMICA<30',y ClUB RBSIDZNCE^ 1JDJ? ME3Y.AND WQMFK-^JOOOjaoOJVffj 


^OFFIC/ALCHICAOP HHAPQUARBER^7 forlOZ Coflajes'aiul Umvewttic^ ' giulZO Natlotmt «Sc>rortti<&y •* • ^—$1Z5? jjcf week, xvp-—•^'^•^ 
f €€TI3ALL /EA$€N 
rrOP AT THE 


ALLECTON 
iitiiiiiiimiii 

Q,. iiiiiiiiiii.iHiiitM''>i*M'<*'"**"iii""""""'**"*^"""""*'*^***"*^*""""*' "B 

|»liiiiiiiiitiiiitiiii«iiiiiiiiitiiii»iMiiii>iiiitiii»tiittitiiiiii>tiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiiiiii'iiiii*imiiiiiiniiiiiiiniiniiiniiinniiiiitniimiinnimiiL •a 
T6e Cover 



IN THIS ISSUE 
Summer Brings Important Changes.  5  
JManion Assistant to Ray Miller  6  
Father Hudson Retires  S  
Reading Lists for N. D. Alumni­ 9  
1929 Summer Session  10  
Editorial  11  
Alumni Clubs  12  
Athletics  16  
Stadium Progresses  19  
The Alumni  20  

The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is S2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of ?5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923, at the post ofUce at Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1S97, All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana, 
MEMBER OP THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
MEMBER OF THE NATION.VL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
HAKLEY MCDEVITT, '29, Advertising Mgr. 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E . ARJISTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
JfWlK J L FOOTE, '73 Honorary President JXIHN W. EGGEMAN, '00 President J^VMES E . DEERY , '10 Vice-President JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary WALTER DUNCAN, '12 Treasurer ALFRED C. RVAN, '20 Director GEORGE M . MAYPOLE, '03 
•';."•':; Director M, HARRY MILLER, '10 
\-J\ '.'•-'• Director 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 

Director DON M. HAMILTON, '12 
'{e/c PJ^FJO) Director 

Q.., • iiiiii liiviiNiiihiuiiiitiiriiMtiiiii -B 
The new cover plate of the ALUM­NUS is the work of Wilbur C. McElroy, '26, whose art work during his course in architecture at the Uni­versity, was a nationally admired and copied feature of the Juggler and the Dome. 
The change in size necessitated a change from the former cover plate, which was the work of Vincent Fa­gan, '20. 
Mac is living at his home, Elmcrest, Norwalk, Conn,, and commuting to New York, where he is engaged in illustrating. His brother, Paul Mc­Elroy, whose art work during the past four years preserved the high family standard established by Wil­bur, was graduated in June and is at present traveling in Europe, Campus publications art has suffered from the cessation of the McElroy dynasty. 
But it is for this reason a special pleasure for the ALUMNUS to carry to those familiar with their work a constant reminder of the McElroy talent. 
The Editor also takes this oppor­tunity to ask the charity of the read­ers in the slips that are all too proba­ble in the first issue. The transition from one size to another, while not startling to the casual eye, involves a flock of details that offer entirely too many opportunities for error. 
Like the radio stations, if you like this issue, drop the Editor a card. (Unlike them, if you don't like it, drop a card.) It is your magazine, and the idea is to give you the most and best available. 
Mr, Harley McDevitt, '29, graduate manger of campus publications, has consented to become a member of the ALUMNUS staff, acting as advertis­ing manager. The increase in the size of the magazine makes it impos­sible for the Editor to care for the editorial material and follow up the advertising angle of the magazine to the best advantage, Mr, McDevitt's experience while in school, and his national contacts through his new position with the undergraduate pub­lications makes him valuable to the ALUMNUS. 

2145'?1 

V. a 

September, 1929 ' THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 5 
_ _______^ ^ _ 




TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Volume VII. SEPTEMBER, 1929 No.1 
Summer Brings Important Changes at University 
O
NE of the important changes of the summer was the appoint­ment of Rev. William A. Carey, C. S. C.,'ll, former registrar of the University, as vice-president and 
Rev. yVm. A. Carey, C.S.C. 

director of studies at Columbia Uni­versity, Portland, Ore. Father Carey has been succeeded by Rev. William Molony, C.S.C, '07, a foi-mer mem­ber of the faculty of the College of Science at Notre Dame. 
Other important changes in the fac­ulty for the coinins; y«.'.r have been announced by Rev. Emil De Wulf, 
C. S. C.,'03, director of studies. 
Outstanding among these is the loss of three valuable I and experienced members of the faculty. Profs. Bur­ton and Augustine Confrey and Prof. El-nest Thompson. The Confrey brothers have been very successful in the teaching of English at Notre Dame, and both had taken an active interest in the field of Education. Prof. Thompson, former head of the art department, resigned to take a position at the College of New Rochelle, which would permit him to continue his very successful art studies in New York City. Prof. Burton Confrey had been at Notre Dame since 1921, Prof. Thompson since 1922 and Prof. Augustine Con­frey since 1924. 
Further resignations are announced as follows: Ralph Ambrose, a member of the department of music faculty last year; Howard Dolmage, '26, for two years an instructor in the depart­ment of English; John T. Griifin, '28, instructor in economics last year; L. 
0. McCabe, for two years in the department of finance; Felix SIcCullough, '23, who taught mechan­ical engineering last year; Frank McCuUough, for three years an in­structor in politics; George Paff,'27, instructor in biology last year; John Robinson, '28, instructor in ancient languages last year; James Roy, '29, last year's national intercollegiate oratorical champion and instructor in public speaking; Edward Schmitt,'22, for two years instructor in economics, and Julian Wulbem, instructor in marketing last year. 
Three valuable members of the Order are lost to the faculty through changes. Rev. E. V. Mooney, C.S.C.,'16, has ben assigned to the College of St. 
Rev. Thomas Lahey 

Thomas. Father Mooney was head of 
the newly organized department of physical education at Notre Dame. Rev. George Marr, C. S. C.,S. T. D., professor of religion and philosophy, has been transferred to Holy Gross 
College, Washington, D. C. and Rev. William Molonys appointment as registrar removes him from the College of Science. 
However, the faculty is not devas­tated by these losses, serious as they are. In fact, while seventeen mem­bers have been lost, twenty-six new members have been added. 
Dr. Theodore Just, a graduate of the University of Vienna, becomes a member of the department of phar­macy. Orlo Deahl, judge of the Superior Court in South Bend, be­comes a member of the College of Law faculty, as does Homer Earl. The College of Science also adds La P. Baldinger, and t^vo graduate assistants, Stephen C. Bocskei, '29, and Peter Burkhart, '29. 
The College of Commerce is aug­mented by Cletus Chizek, finance, Thomas L. Flatley, commercial. J. H. Clouse will teach mechanical engin­eering. The department of music adds Willard Groom. William J. Holton Joins the department of philos­ophy. Prof. Thompson's place as head of the department of art is ably filled by Prof. Emil Jacques, one of the leading Flemish painters in cur­rent art. Bernard J. Kohlbrenner and Leo F. Kuntz join the depart­ment of education. Thomas P. Mad­den, A. B. '27, who has just completed two years graduate work at the U. of North Carolina, joins the department of English. Joseph Martinez will be­come a member of the faculty of mod­em languages, teaching Spanish. John -A. Scannell joins the department of physical education. Three other 
Rev. E. Vincent Mooney 

graduate assistants have been an­nounced. Louis Buckley, '28, will teach economics; Paul Bartholomew, 
{Continued on Pase 32) 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS September, 1929 

Manion Assistant to Ray Miller 
Record Lay Retreat 
Notre Dame's annual Layman's 
Retreat, conducted by the Mission 
priests of the Congregation, was held 
this year August 15 to 18. It was 
attested by eleven hundred lajTnen 
from the leading cities of the mid­
west. Rev. Thomas Kearney, C.S.C. 
was director, succeeding the Rev. 
Joseph Boyle, C.S.C, who is now pre­
fect of religion at the CoUegeof St. 
Thomas. 
Many alumni, headed by President 
John W. Eggeman and Honorarj' 
President Mark Foote, were among 
the retreatants, who come from all 
walks of life to enjoy the beautiful 
ceremonies in the quiet of the campus. 
Father Kearney made a special 
effort this year to interest the Local 
Clubs in stimulating alumni atten­
dance, and is confident that alumni 

representation will increase. 
Father Kearney has also begun 

publication of The Retreatant, a quar­
terly devoted to the activities of the 

Lay Retreat. 

Former Professors 

During the summer, announcement was made by the College of St. Thomas that Dr. J. J. Becker, for ten years connected with the department of music at Notre Dame, would assume the chairmanship of fine arts at the beginning of the current school year. Prof. Becker has been advisory director of St. Mary's College of the Springs, Columbus, 0., since leaving Notre Dame two years ago. His compositions of modem music have attracted considerable attention in the musical world. 

Senes Interesting 

Franklyn Doan, '29, last year's publicity director at the University, is now with the Crowell Publishing Co. in New York City. During the summer, Mr. Doan has been publish­ing in a South Bend newspaper a very interesting series of articles "South Bend to Broadway," dealing very largely with Notre Dame men who have brought a smile to old Broadway. Among those featured have been J. P.McEvoy, Angus Mc­Donald, Walter O'Keefe, Charley Bnttenvorth, William Anthony Maguire, and Vincent Engels. 
Are your dues in? Your Class and Club need your support. Five dollars or More! 
The following article from the Cleveland Plain Dealer of July 30 describes Cleveland's very favorable impression of Prosecutor Eay Miller's ('14) action in appointing Prof. Clarence Manion (J. D. '22) assistant prosecutor of Cuyahoga County dur­ing the past summer to assist in sev­eral special cases. The article inci­dentally carries a strong overtone of approval for the conduct of the pros­ecuuutor's office by the present incum­bent. (The latter conjecture has been confirmed by numerous feature articles, news stories and personal reports that have reached Notre Dame since Ray was elected.) 

In a little room at the end of the corridor in the civil branch of Pros­ecutor Eay T, Miller's office a young man sat at a desk yesterday sur­rounded by law books and business­like documents. 
Prof. Clarence Manion 

The young man, handsome, square of shoulder and pleasant-voiced posed for photographers and didn't seem bashful about it after Prosecutor Miller asked him to oblige. Obvious­ly not a politician,, he sat in a swivel chair that has held quite a number of political office holders. When other assistants went home at quitting time he still sat at his desk working. 
The young man was Dr. Clarence E. Manion, professor of constitutional law at Notre Dame University. He has five college degrees and is the author of a well-known history te.xt­book used in the schools. 
Doctor Manion yesterday was appointed an assistant county pros­ceutor for the summer season. He will remain with Miller until Septem­ber, when he will go back to Notre Dame. 
At 32, Dr. Manion has become a 
recognized authority on constitutional 
law, his chosen field of legal study. 
Miller said yesterday he believed Dr. 
Manion had one of ' 'the keenest 
legal minds in the United States." 
The practice of appointing special 
assistant prosecutor during the 
summer season ^vas sort of a joke in 
the prosecutor's office before Miller 
became prosecutor. Former prose­
cutors used to give big league ball 
players and prize fighters jobs during 
vacation times. They didn't do much 
work but the money "helped tide 

them over." 
Dr. Manion started work yesterday and will have plenty to do the rest of the summer. Miller said. Among other things. Dr. Manion will aid in preparing the Supreme Court briefs in the case of former Councilman Thomas W. Fleming, who is under a sentence of two years and nine months for bribery. 
Supreme Court briefs in the case of Michael (Mike the Pipe) Shinkman, recently granted a new trial by Court of Appeals in his second degree murder case, already have been pre­pared by Dr. Manion and Assistant Prosecutor E. J. Hopple. A number of other important briefs will be assigned to Dr. Manion. 
The professor has decided views on prohibition and other things. He be­lieves modification of the amendment through the repeal of the Volstead act would be "the proper way to solve a bad problem." 
Dr. Manion pointed out that he be­came interested in constitutional law through observing "some of the mistakes of Congress." 

Kit Carson's Fnend 

The Kansas City Star of July 7, writing up a pioneer radio broadcast, gives several columns to an inter­view with Dr. Edwin Euthven Heath, 
LL. D. '19, Dr. Heath, whose dis­coveries in South America were ines­timably valuable to Bolivia, is the Bolivian consul in Kansas City and holds many decorations from that government. 
.\s a boy of 9, Dr. Heath's family crossed the plains to California (1847) in a wagon train led by JCit Carson. Dr. Heath's reminiscences of the har­rowing experiences of that journey were most interesting. 
September, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 


SL Edward's Hall Becomes College Residence 
T
HE Minims are no more! Class rooms, dormitories, refectory, parlors, gym and play hall, have been remodeled to fit the greater dream of Father Sorin, and this year St. Edward's Hall will house 207 college students. The department, for so many years the pride of Father Sorin and the training ground for so many alumni, had gro^vn farther away from the rest of the school with the abandonment, espe­cially, oftheprepar­atoiy department in 1920. 
The accompanying illustration show s the changes in the front of the build­ing, practically the only changes in the exterior. On the in­terior the entire hall has been converted into rooms, almost all of them doubles, with the exception of the Chapel, which remains. The fa­mous painting of 
Sorin meeting the Indians, by Gregori, has been preserved in a small parlor. The famous roll of honor has also been left intact, as has the beautiful stained glass window of Gregori's painting of Sorin in his later years. 
With the Minims go many traditions of Notre Dame. As a feature in the Scholastic points out, the residents of St. Edward's ^vill have high Notre Dame ideals to uphold. "They must maintain an enviable record in athletics, for the Minims never lost more than three games a season in 
any sport. They must keep up a great record in supporting 
Notre Dame teams." Alumni who were fortunate enough to have enjoyed those days in the Minims will not forget them. Sister Colomba, Brother Cajetan, the bell on the water trough, the privileges 
of Brother Cajetan's own dormitory, the wash rooms, the skunk trapping, the Thursday pay day, the day at the bar­ber's, the Com­mencement plays and orations, the varsity games,— these things do not pass vdth. the ma­terial institution. 
Th e University has been attempting to overcome the dif­iicalties of an exten­sive off-campus resi­dence group ever since that situation arose. Limiting of enrollment was the first big step after the three new resi­dence halls were 
St. Edward's Hall 
found insufScient by 
several hundred rooms. 

The remodeling of St. Edward's, by Vincent Fagan, '20, of the University department of architecture, brings 207 more off-campus boys on the campus, solving almost a third of the off-campus problem and making practically 2400 student residents on the University grounds. The remain­ing off-campus men are either residents of South Bend or residing within a limited area on the East side of the St. Joseph Biver, under supervision of Bev. J. A. Heiser, C.S.C. 
Athletes Scholars 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS September, 1929 
Father Hudson Retires From The Ave Maria 
Rev. Daniel Hudson, CS.C. 

B
Y action of the Congregation of Holy Cross during the summer just passed, Eev. Daniel E. Hudson, C.S.C, for fifty-five years editor of the Are Maria and the dean of Cath­olic editors in America, was relieved of the burdens of that oiiice because of ill health, and Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, '06, was appointed to succeed him. 
During his long editorship Father Hudson's saintly and scholarly per­sonality made itself felt on the Notre Dame campus, though his work was in reality apart. Many alumni were fortunate enough to know him per­sonalI}^ The ALUMNUS is pleased to report that a serious illness has been to a large extent overcome, and Father Hudson is much improved. 
The .4 re Maria under his editorial management has introduced many prominent writers into the Catholic field, and Father Hudson himself is known as one of the greatest writers of pure English in modern journal­ism. Among the Ai-e Maria writers whom Father Hudson knew and en­couraged were Eliza Allen Starr (Laetare Medallist), Maurice Francis Egan (Laetare Medallist), Charles Warren Stoddard, Christian Reid, Rev. Dr. Zahm, C.S.C, Bishop Spald­ing, Hon. Charles J. Bonaparte (Lae­tare Medallist), Mai-y T. Waggaman, Prank Speannan, and a number of recent writers. 
Father Hudson's correspondence with the famous Father Damien in the leper colony of Molokai, his con­tact with Robert Louis Stevenson, and his friendship with Father Dutton, who now holds that saintly but fear­ful outpost, make a stoi-y in them­selves. 
The Ave Maria was another of the projects of the indefatigable Father Sorin, begun by him in 1865 as an added devotion to the Blessed Virgin. He was discouraged by friends, but with the same almost mii-aculous vision that marked his perseverance with the University he launched the magazine. Here, too, as with the school. Father Sorin's faith in God and the Blessed Virgin was supple­mented by a tireless labor on his own part that sui-mounted obstacles that seemed to less gifted men insur­mountable. 
The first two numbers of the maga­zine were published in Chicago. Prof. Paul Broder, a distinguished scholar then at the University, was sent there to superintend the work. After these t^vo editions, a printing press was set up at Notre Dame and Alfred Talley, a Chicago printer, put in charge. Father Sorin himself, for a long time, acted as editor, assisted by Mother Angela of St. Mai-y's. 

In 186G Father Gillespie returned from a three years' stay in France and Father Sorin soon turned over to him the editoi-ship of the magazine. It was under Father Gillespie that Father Hudson began his work with the Ave Maria. In 1874 Father Gil­lespie died, and Father Hudson was appointed to succeeed him. Under him, the magazine has continued its devotional and religious excellence, and has treated these in a literary style whose excellence has attracted thousands of readers. Father Hud­son came to Notre Dame from New England, and has given to the Ave Maria the culture and literary tradi­tion of Boston and the old Atlantic Monthly. 
Forty-two thousand copies of the Ave Maria are printed weekly, going to all parts of the world. The scope of its influence is inestimable. 
Rev. Eugene Burke, the new editor, received his A. B. at Notre Dame in 1906. He received an S.T.B., S.T.L. and a Ph.D. from Catholic University in Washington. He was professor of Theology at Holy Cross College there until 1913. For the next six years he taught English at Notre-Dame,­leaving the University to assume the presidency of Columbia College, Port­land, where he remained until 1928. 
Rev. Eugene Burlcc, C.S.C. 
Last year he returned to Notre Dame as assistant editor of the Ave Maria and a member of the faculty of philosophy. Father Burke's own pen has a facility familiar to Notre Dame and his many friends. 

A. A. C. Convention 
Alumni Secretary James E. Arm­strong represented the Association at the sixteenth annual conference of the American Alumni Council, held at Toronto and at Muskoka Lakes June 25 to June 29. 
As mentioned several times in the 
ALUMNUS, Notre Dame was the 

first Catholic Alumni organization to 
afiiliate TOtli this group of alumni 
secretaries, alumni magazine editors 
and alumni fund directors. 

That the Council is achieving big things is indicated in the report of the Aims and Policies Committee on adult education which is to be printed in the October issue. 
The Notre Dame secretary is also lace-president of the Council and Director of District V, one of the ten districts into which the United States has been di\ided for more effective cooperation. This District now includes all the member colleges and universities in West Virginia, Ohio, Kentuck5% Michigan, Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin and Minnesota. 
Re-read the pamphlet you re­ceived in August, and act! 



Reading Lists for N, D, Alumni 
From month to month during the current year, the ALUMNUS intends to print reading lists in the various fields of interest to Notre Dame alumni—literature, history, philoso­phy, science, law, commerce, etc. The ALUMNUS anticipates the co-pera­tion of the faculty in the preparation of these lists. 
Notre Dame is especially equipped to furnish reading that is sound and interesting to the alumni of a Cath­olic college. The University is be­coming, in fact has become, the center of Catholic literature in America. 
The accompanying illustration shows a group of writers who stand out in the Catholic literature of the country, all attending or teaching at the 1929 summer session of the Uni­versity. 
In addition to these, there are on the campus during the school year Rev. Daniel Hudson, just retired from the editorship of the Ave Maria after fifty years in that position. He has been the confidant and patron of many of the leading Catholic writers . of the country, Maurice Francis Egan, Charles Warren Stoddard, Mai-y T. Waggaman, Frank T. Spear­man and others. Prof. Charles Phillips, a member of the faculty, is a novelist, poet, and prominent jour­nalist whose activities and contacts are international. Pi-of. John Cooney, of the department of journalism, is the author of a novel and many articles. Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, the present editor of the Ave Maria, succeeds to that position through out­standing literary ability and expe­rience. Prof. Clarence Manion is the author of a history te.\t and is being recognized as one of the country's authorities on constitutional law. Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C, has con­
tributed a number of valuable papers and articles to American Catholic Philosophy. Prof. William Eoemer is bringing out a book at present on international law. Rev. John Cava­naugh, C.S.C, is one of the outstand­ing Catholic literary critics, and the author of many famous sermons and orations, several collections of which have been published. Very Rev. James Burns, C.S.C, Provincial of the Congregation, is the author of several texts and a number of articles on education. Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C, has contributed a number of papers to chemical journals and so­cieties. Brother Leo, C.S.C, is a 
Slimmer school classes at Notre Dame have been benefitted by the group of eleven literati shown above. All are writers who have gained recognition by their published works. The group includes: top row, left to right, Norbert 
C.Engels, the Rev. P. J. Carroll, C.S.C., the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, the Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., and Theodore Maynard; bottom row. Sister Monica, O.S.U., Sister Josephine, O.S.U., Sister Mary Eleanore, C.S.C, Sister Angeleta, B.V.M., Sister Ignatia, O.M., and Mrs. Eleanore Perry Engels. 
nationally recognized authority on 
fax-m and animal husbandry problems, 
contributing many articles to farm 
journals. 
From the foregoing list—^which is not exhaustive of campus talent—the ability of the faculty to prepare authentic reading lists is evident. No better list, however, could begin this series than the works of the group appealing in the accompanying illus­tration. 
Norbert C. Engels, A. B. '26, M. A. '28, has published poems and critical articles in The Commonweal, Amer­ica, Ave Maria, The Literary Digest 
and the America Book of Verse. The Rev. P. J. Can-oil, C S. C, Litt. B. '11, published "Round About Home" (1914), "Songs of Creelabeg" (1916), "Heart Hermitage" (1928), and is the author of numerous other poems and magazine articles. The Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C S. C, A. B. '06, was the associate editor of the Ave Maria (1910—), and has written "A Study of the Prose Writings of Francis Thompson, with Special Reference to His Creat­ive Criticism" (1913), "Ne^vman's 
Gentleman" (1916) "The Dead Musi­cian" and other poems (1916), "Cloister" and other poems (1922), editor of Notre Dame Verse (1917), and "A Rime of the Rood and other Poems" (1928). 
The Rev. Leo R. Ward, C. S. C, Litt. B. '23 is the author of many magazine articles and poems which have appeared in The Midland, The Commonweal, Poetry, The Catholic Woi-ld, Ave Maria, Thought, and America. 
Theodore Maynard is the author of "Laughs and Whifts of Song" (Intro­duction by G. K. Chesterton, (1915), "Drums of Defeat" (1916), "Folly" and other poems (1918), "Carven From the Laurel Tree" (1918), "Poems" (1919), "The Divine Adven­ture" (1920), "Our Best Poets" (1922), The Book of Modem Verse" (1927), "The Book of Modem Catho­lic Prose" (1927), and what is, in Mr. Maynard's opinion his greatest work, "Exile," (1928). 
Sister Monica, 0. S. U., Ph. D. '26, is the author of many magazine arti­cles, poems, and plays. She is at 
(Continued on Page 32) 

THE NOTKE DAME-ALUMNUS September, 1939 

1929 Summer Session Outstanding Success 
Faculty, students and activities combined to make the 1929 summer school of the University the g^reatest in the history of that institution. 
Enrollment for the term reached 1125 on July 23, the opening date. Ninety-nine members of the regular University faculty and twenty-eight visiting professors presided over the classes, graduate and undergraduate, of the College of Arts and Letters (all departments), the College of Science (except Agriculture and Pharmacy), and, as electives of in-tei-est to Arts and Science students, in the Colleges of Engineering and Commerce. The College of Law also oifered a limited number of courses. 

Among the visiting alumni pro­fessors were Eev. William Bolger, C.S.C, who is now at the College of St. Thomas; John A. Lemmer, '18, principal of the Escanaba High School, and Eev. M. L. Moriarty, '10, Wooster, Ohio. 
Names prominent nationally ap­peared rather plentifully in the teach­ing personnel for the session. Dr. Wilhelm Middelschulte, Theodore Maynard, Sir Carl Busch, Glenn Dil­lard Gunn, Eev. Edwin V. O'Hara, Sr. M. Monica, O.S.U., Sr. M. Elea­nore, C.S.C, and others prominent in their fidds. 
Summer school was inaugurated at Notre Dame in 1919. It was imme­diately evident that the Catholic teachers of America, lay and re­ligious, welcomed the availability of the University for summer study. Originally the session was open to men and women, lay and religious. Two years ago the enrollment was limited to exclude lay women, with a few exceptions for those whose work toward advanced degrees was incom­plete. Even with this limitation, de­velopment has been steady, represen­tation in the other groups increasing in number and in territory represent­ed. One of the most interesting sights in American campus life is the Notre Dame campus during the sum­mer with its native beauty augmented by the varicolored habits of the men and women Eeligious. 
Summer school, as always, fur­nishes an opportunity to the college student to catch up or get ahead a few credits, and a goodly nucleus of the "old guard"—enough this year to fill both Freshman and Sophomore halls—^vere sprinkled among the Eeligious. 
Special lectures and concerts by members of the faculty gave the public of South Bend and the St. Joe Valley a chance to enjoy their talent. Prof. Middleschnlte's Sunday after­noon organ recitals have become an established feature of the summer sessions that hundreds of people not attending school anticipate. Theodore Maynard also gave a series of lec­tures in Washington Hall that at­tracted a great deal of outside atten­tion. Prof. Eichard Seidel, violinist, and Dr. Middelschulte gave a joint concert during the session. 

Tuesday, August 6,130 degrees, the largest number ever awarded at a summer school commencement here, were given out by the Eev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University. Three Doctorates of Philosophy, in course, were awarded, one to Sr. M. Eunice, Sisters of Charity, Louisville, Ky., the other two to Eev. Sidney Raemers and Prof. Louis Carey of the faculty of the University. 
Prof. Daniel Charles O'Grady, Ph.D., of the department of philos­ophy, Notre Dame, delivered the com­mencement address. 
Dr. O'Grady received his A. B. degree from the University of Ottawa, and his Ph.D. from the Catholic Uni­versity at Washington, D. C He is one of the youngest men ever to de­liver a commencement address at Notre Dame, being only twenty-eight years old. 
The philosophy department at Notre Dame ranks Dr. O'Grady as one of its leading men, and his dis­tinction in being appointed to deliver the address comes as a recognition of his unusual accomplishments. 
Dr. O'Grady's address was on "The Catholic Scholar," and was a plea for objectivity and individuality. 

The speaker reminded his audience that Cardinal Newman in his "Idea of a University" had distinguished between mere knowledge, or educa­tion, and culture, or scholarship. By the former he means the acquisition of information, and by the later, he understands the exercise of thought on knowledge. 
Only the latter meets the name of intellectual expansion or philosophy. Dr. O'Grady maintained, and this out­look on life should be characterized by the two features of individuality ond objectivity. 
The people, in Dr. O'Grady's opin­
ion, do not think that their ideas are 
the rubber stamp variety. In fact, 
they do very little thinking, and none 
at all about their own thoughts. 
By individuality the speaker in­sisted that he did not mean subject­ivity. Eddington, Spengler, Prag­matists generally, and Sentimental­ists are instances of subjectivity. Bradley and Fichte are also subject­ive, and besides, subjectivity in phil­osophy has also suffered from this malady. 
The conception of art as self ex­pression is typically modem and typically subjective. Dr. O'Grady stated. It is false, Gilbert Murray points out. Shelley was aware of it, and Sir Herbert Beerbohm Tree, the Shakespearean actor denounced it. 
Objectivity, as favored by the mod­em scientsits, is the only attitude worth while, was the plea of the lec­turer. Dr. O'Grady said that modems were hearkening back to the days of Aristotle who emphasized its neces­sity even as scientists do today. 

C. S. C. to France 
Very Eev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C, of Notre Dame, superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross; the Eev. Hilary Joseph Paszek, for the past three years assistant master of novices, at St. Joseph's Novitiate, Notre Dame; the Eev. Philip Moore,C.S.C, of Wabash, Ind., aslo Brother Arthur, C.S.C, and Brother Frederick, C.S.C, of Notre Dame,who went there from France in 1902, arrived at the College of Notre Dame, Montreal, on July 25. 
Joined by Father Blais, C.S.C, of the Canadian Province, they sailed from Montreal on the S. S. Empress of Scotland on Monday, July 29, for France. Father Paszek and the Brothers named will re-establish a novitiate of the Congregation of the Holy Cross in France. 
Father Paszek was ordained to the priesthood on May 29, 1926, by the Et. Eev. Bishop, John F.N0II, D. D. in the Cathedral of the Immaculate Con­ception, Fort Wayne, and shortly after becamethe assistant master of novices at Notre Dame. He is the son of Mrs. Mary Paszek, a pioneer resident of South Bend, residing at 821 North Notre Dame Avenue. Father Paszek will remain abroad three years. 

Q.. IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIKIIIIIIIIKIIDtlllillllllllttllil Illllllltlllltllltiii 


EDITORIAL 
Qn llllllltllltlllllllltllllllDIt • IIIIIIDIIMIMII illlllllltlllHIIHliHlttlHMHIMIIIHHHIIHHIMIIMMMIIMHIIIMIIHIMIillllW*MWIIIIIIIHwlSI 
PUTTING AWAY THE THINGS OP A CHILD 
HE Alumni Association has grown up. The ALUM­^* NUS, which best represents the Association in the concrete, appears this year in grown-up clothes. 
But these pages are merely the hand\vriting on the wall. The other activities of the Association must conform. The infancy and childhood of the Association have been very pleasant. All the attention from the Alma Mater, the sudden changes of face from sunshine to tempest, the sen­sitiveness to injury, or to praise, have been a natural part of development. 
That time has passed. The Association has reached a size and an age where it is justly expected to act maturely, to do the work of a man, to support itself. 
Notre Dame has not cast off the Association, nor is it without its inheritance. Alumni are welcome to the Uni­versity as a son, no matter how long or how far separated, is welcome home. The inheritance of the Association is the priceless example of the development of the Alma Mater, the sacrifice of those connected with the University in its early stages, and the devotion of earlier alumni who were deprived of the opportunity that is given now. And cer­tainly to the individual alumnus, Notre Dame has opened the highways of the world, and, in the trained mind, has provided the means to explore them. 
Man's estate does not preclude the enjoyment of life. All the social life of the campus can be retained in the Local Clubs, in the reunions at football games, at Com­mencement, and in individual contacts. But in the minds of the alumni, and in alumni expression the world expects maturity. 
President John Eggeman and the Board of Directors, assuming this essential transition, are conducting the affairs of this organization in a mature manner, a manner that demands mature consideration and support from each member. 
The Association is no longer a toy, it is a tool. 
CO-OPERATION 

^^O-OPERATION is always a tempting title for an 
f editorial. But it happens to be just what the 
^-^ Editor needs, and no other word is more appropriate. 
The increase in size of the ALUMNUS means much more copy. The Editor wants this copy to be, in large part, news of the Clubs and the Classes. 
This might be addressed to the Club and Class Secre­taries except that those harrassed individuals have already received this appeal. The effectiveness of it is up to you. You make up the Class and you make up the Club. You are the material for the news that the Secretaries should send. See that yon do something and that they know of it. Better, send it to them and, if you suspect them of laxity, send it to the ALUMNUS direct. The Editor's blessings have gone out many times to thoughtful senders of clip­pings, announcements, pictures, and all the things that go to make up the magazine. 
THE YOUNG MEN 
71 T" OTRE DAME'S young men do more than dream 
/ l / dreams. The Editor, in the modesty of his own 
comparative youth, has been somewhat loath to 
explode the fallacy that the older alomni support the Asso­
ciation. But the figures published in the pamphlet sent 
out in August are too striking to overlook. 
The five most recent classes, 1925, 1926, 1927, 1928 and 1929, on August 15 had averaged more than 50 percent of their quotas, while only seven of the other forty-five Classes listed had done as well. These same five classes had con­tributed at that time 40 percent of the entire amount contributed. 
While the size of the Classes might influence the amount contributed, it does not affect the i>ercentages of the Class quotas. The Editor suggests, with the effrontery of a member of one of these Classes, that the older alumni look to their laurels. 
•-•-•-• 
FOOTBALL TICKETS 
1\'T0 opening issue of the ALUMNUS would be com­
/ 1/ plete without the editorial lamentation over the 
"^ football ticket situation. The Alumni Association 
and the Athletic Association of the University have reached 
an agreement concerning football tickets for alumni which 
compares more than favorably with any other university 
in America whose football team has a drawing power 
approaching that of Notre Dame. Mr. Haley has elsewhere 
in this issue outlined the situation. 
But in the Fall of the year—and if seems to be general among alumni of all schools—expansion of mind and salva­tion of soul are forgotten in the ticket problem. The search for the Fountain of Youth may possibly have compared in its hopeless idealism with the search for a couple of hundred 50-yard line tickets by about a hundred thousand football fans. Nor could the emotional reactions of the gold rush of '49 offer more peculiar conditions than the modem football ticket oiBce. 
Everyone has some claim to special consideration. The difBculty at Notre Dame is that so many of these claims have foundation in the loyalty and service of alumni and friends of the University that to give the favors asked woJild do away with the very benefits that ordinarily accompany them. For example, to give one deserving alumnus fifty tickets in the alumni section, would neces­sarily remove the very next applicant, no matter how special his consideration, forty-two seats further from choice position than the present allotment of eight. 
Also, with five thousand alumni applications sent out, each giving alumni preference for eight tickets, it is obvious that even the preference for the last application in cannot place the applicant in the middle of the field. 
Athletic and alumni officers are aware (naturally, and by constant reminder) that the presoit system is not perfect. But study has convinced than that it is niore perfect than any other practicable system yet evolved. And perfection in this imperfect life can, after all, be but a matter of degree. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS September, 1929 

Q.. lllltlttlllDlltllltlllllllllllllltllllllllHtllllll 
"(3 


ALUMNI CLUBS 
iiiiiitiiitiiiii iiiiiiitiitiiiiii 
..Q 

this time, but shall announce it at the 
earliest possible moment. 
Our membership lists were in­

creased to the extent of 47 by the 
members of the Class of 1929, who 
are locating in Chicago. 
We intend to have a golf tourna­

ment sometime this month. Plans are 
now under way for same and Thomas 
S. JlcCabe can be found any morn­ing at daylight at the Jackson Park links. Mac promises big things. We'll see. 
Plans are also being made for an Advertisers' Night. James E. San­ford is chairman of this committee and reports that things are going along nicely. 
During the summer months our weekly luncheons were officially dis­continued, although a great number of the fellows continue to drop in at the Elks' Club every Wednesday noon. Fred Steers is chairman of the weekly luncheon committee and is making plans for a heavy Fall pro­gram. 
CALUMET REGION 

Mr. Dooley has not crashed through \vith anything, despite the acquisition of a literary wife who had instilled hopes of more correspondence from the Calumet Secretary. 
CINCINNATI, OHIO 

Leo, where art thou? The shy little violets may grow beside the old Ohio, but fewens sake, as Mushmouth says, let's not let that spirit creep into the Cincinnati contingent. The Editor suggests that Ed McHugh's yacht be corralled before it goes into warmer waters this Fall, and its o%\-ner and other alumni of the southern border get themselves in this particular space next month. 
• CLEVELAND, OHIO Fred A. Joyce writes an encourag­ing note from Cleveland: The annual golf pilgrimage to Wooster (early in the summer) was a huge success (52 were present). Father Moriarty, '10, proved himself the usual genial host. We are plan­ning a series of Saturday afternoon parties to receive the returns of the Notre Dame games this Fall and a large number of members have expressed their intention of attending the Southern California and Carnegie Tech games. We have already en­gaged a special train for the Car­
negie Tech game. Members of the Class of 1929 are 
(Ed. Note: One of the big reasons for increasing tlie size of the ALUM­NUS is to give more details of Clubs and Classes. Noiv then, at least one letter a month from the Club Secre­tary! And, to that victim's Club-mates, he can't write witliout some­thing to write about. If you aren't doing anything, get going, to put it briefly.) 
AKRON, OHIO 
Frank Steel wTote a brief letter 

giving a few facts about the Akron 
boys individually that appear in the 
Class section. Otherwise quiet. 
ALBANY, N. Y. 

One of the late reports of Club organization on U. N. D. Night comes from Gerry Lyons, erstwhile of the Notre Dame Daily, now in less excit­ing employ of the Albany Knicker­bocker-Press : 
The newly organized Notre Dame Club of the Capital District of New York state is planning a busy Fall and Winter. 
The executive committee of the organization will meet early in Sep­tember to plan for a Fall dinner, which will probably be followed by a dance at the holidays. 
The club centers around Albany, Schenectady and Troy, but includes members from other nearby counties. It was organized at a meeting in the Van Curler hotel, Schenectady, on Universal Notre Dame night. 
Its officers are: Francis X. Disney of Albany, president; John J. Heuth­er of Schenectady, vice-president; Gerald Lyons of Albany, secretary and treasurer. The board of gover­nors includes John W. Forbing and Claire Toughey of Albany, John Mee­han and Malcolm Knaus of Schenec­tady, and Thomas V. Dollard of Troy. 
Charter members of the club in­clude: 
Albany-^ohn W. Forbing, 1900 North Pine Avenue; Joseph T. Carey, '26, 688 Morris street; Ward H. Leahy, '25, 20 Summit avenue; John 
F. Campbell, '26, 85 South Lake' avenue; Francis X. Disney, '23, 263 Manning boulevard; Gerald Lyons, '24, 35 Elk street; Maurice B. Con­ley, '28, 148 State street; J. E. Nor­ton, '28, 185 Hawk street; Robert F. Fitzgerald, '28, 863 Lancaster street; Claire J. Toughey, '26, 232 State street; H. G. Le Strange, '27, 261 Myi-tle avenue; F. D. Ott, '22, 238 Manning boulevard; and Donald J. Corbett, '28, 232 State street. 
Schenectady-John J. Heuther, '22, Sumner avenue; John J. Meehan, '23, 1511 Union avenue; M. A. Brule, '25, 1059 Wendall avenue; Thomas J. Bov, '28, 1091 Wendall avenue; Charles H. Topping, '28; 2511 Union street; Francis L. Duquette, '28, 219 Green street; John J. Koran, '28, 1511 Union street; James T. Parker, '28, 243 Union street; Malcolm Knaus, '26, 1330 Union street; Raymond F. Bov, 1091 Wendall avenue. 
Troy—Thomas Vincent Dollard, '21. Ballston Spa—^Ronald J. McNamee, '24, 45 West High street. Rensselaer—F. J. Connolly, '23, 1 Partition street. Gloversville—R. E. Mahoney, '28, 16 South Dune. ARKANSAS 
August 31, K. K. Rockne was in Little Rock, Ark., to address some rules committee, enroute from his coaching school in Texas. A letter from Rev. George F. X. Strassner before that date stated that the N. D. Club of Arkansas was on the job to enjoy Rock's visit, but he was so tied up with a one-day stand arranged, that the last report was a hook-up of the Club with Little Rock College in a dinner and entertainment. No more details have followed. 
BUFFALO 

Had a letter from Paul Hoeffler, but on the whole the Buffalo boys seem to have been enjoying Niagara Falls. 
BOSTON 

The Boston outfit has also passed through the summer without pub­licity on any matter of moment. If Notre Dame is as well represented at Harvard this year as last, the next nine months may be busier. 
CHICAGO Frank Fitzsimmons, secretary, writes: 
Because of the four games to be played in Chicago and Evanston, we have been laying plans for a heavy Fall. It is our hope to to have some function after each game. President John Costello informed me today that announcements along this line would be made later. We hope to have a centrally located headquarters for the entire season so that people coming into Chicago from all over the coun­try will have a chance to meet old friends. We cannot definitely state where this headquarters is to be at 
attending the weekly luncheons held 
every Monday by the Club at the 
AUerton House. From present indi­
cations there will be a larger student 
representation from Cleveland this 
year than ever before. 
The officers for the Cleveland 
Club's current year are E. A. Kane, 
president, manager of the Bulkley 
Bldg. garage; John Butler, vice-presi­
dent, Acme Fast Freight Co.; F. A. 
Joyce, secretary, manager the Aller­
ton House; and John A. Gallagher, 
treasurer, Morris Plan Bank. 
CENTRAL OHIO 

Eay Eichenlaub wrote this summer about Notre Dame men in the movies and the Editor had visions of a Centi-al Ohio scenario. But deep silence off stage indicates that it must have been in another connection. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY 

Something must have happened up there. No summer goes by without some sort of party. But not having chartered passage in the Graf, how can the Editor tell what the other half is doing, \vithout at least a tip? 
DAYTON, OHIO 

The Editor thought when Tom Happer, '29, hit Dayton that it would regain its prestige from its Tennessee namesake, but Tom is apparently getting over the effects of the bar exams yet. And in the meantime, Farrell Johnston has become inop­portunely stoical. 
DENVER, COLO. 

Oiville Hough, secretary of the Westeners, hasn't even reported the gain in weight of Al Cusick's baby. If the Editor were so addicted, he might paraphrase, 0. Hough I miss you tonight. 
DETROIT 

With Jim Foren threatening to leave Detroit, a pall seems to have fallen over Harry Kelly, Charley Moltz et al. The Editor hopes that Jim decides to stay, so that next month this column will bring a message. 
(And incidentally, the Editor hopes that next month the Editor doesn't have to -m-ite "the Editor" so much.) 
DES MOINES 

Good news from Des Moines, that is if you accept the old saw that no news is good news. Mr. Newman and Mr. Walsh might be interested to know that the columns of the ALUM­NUS, in this particular instance, are unorthodox. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBLA From that source of so much news comes nothing also. But the Editor 
has paid the score. About seven dif­ferent officials of the Navy-Notre-Dame game in Baltimore have written for the purpose of interesting neighboring alumni in the game. And the District alumni will have to dig their agitated way through piles of circular matter to reach the Balt­imore stadium. Charley Grimes, '20, Washington publisher, was a wel­come visitor on the campus this sum­mer, but too busy to stay long enough. Bob Riordan, '24, former assistant editor of The Bengalese, has joined the faculty at Notre Dame, reducing the District membership. But several graduates of '29 are filling up the roster. (Which para­gi-aph disproves the dictum ex nihilio 
•nihil est.) 
FOX RIVER VALLEY 

John Diener is apparently too busy administering the mayoralty of Green Bay to function during the difficult months just past in his Club capa­city. At least John Gallagher, the Secretai-y, has not exercised his Gregg, if such is the case. To re-ad­just the earlier slogan. One Tale a Month from the Fox. 
FORT WAYNE If all Clubs follow the lead of Fort Wayne, under the distinguished pres­idential guidance of National Presi­dent John W. Eggeman, Club life will enjoy an unbelievable renaissance. Monday night, August 26, the Notre Dame Club of Fort Wayne entertained the St. Mary's Club of Fort Wayne and guests in honor of James C. Roy, national intercollegiate champion orator, and Francis E. Cor­bett, winner of the Mclnemy prize for public speaking in the College of Law, both boys from Fort Wajme. Roy was graduated in 1929, Corbett returning to Notre Dame this Fall. 
Judge Eggeman was master of ceremonies at the banquet, which was held at the Catholic Community Center. 
Mr. Roy gave his oration, "Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea" which won for him the signal honor of unanimous first place in the nation­al oratorical championship last year. He also won the Breen Medal Ora­tory Contest three times while at Notre Dame, a record in the brilliant history of that medal, presented annually by Hon. William P. Breen, '77, of Fort Wayne, distinguished orator himself. 
Mr. Corbett delivered his address on "The Need of Procedural Reform" which won for him the prize awarded 
annually by William A. Hclnemy, 
'01, of South Bend. 
Judge Eggeman pointed out to the 
audience the unusual distinction for 
Fort Wayne in having the winners 
of these two important oratorical 
honors residents. The competition 
for both these prizes is very keen. 
Following the two orations by the 
guests of honor, Rev. John Cava­
naugh, C.S.C, '90, former president 
of the University, himself a famous 
orator and a great patron of oratory 
at the University, delivered the 
address. 
Father Cavanaugh paid tribute to the guests of honor, to the alumnae of St. Mary's to the Fort Wayne Club. He then talked on the changes in the style of oratory, from the time of Hon. William P. Breen to the pres­ent, with the change from the emo­tional appeal to the appeal to reason exemplified in the orations of the young men. Father Cavanaugh also pointed out that so many issues presented from the material stand­point have moral issues that must be considered in judging their ultimate merit. 
Seventy five guests were present at the affair, which is described by Fort Wayne alumni as the finest event sponsored by the Club. 
HAMILTON OHIO 

Hamilton was the second Club to be-organized Universal Notre Dame Night, the report of which arrived too late for publication in last year's ALUMNUS. The letter from Marc Fiehrer, Secretary is: 
The Notre Dame Club of Hamilton, Ohio, was organized Universal Notre Dame Nijght, at which time the Club held its first banquet and organi­zation meeting. The following offi­cers were elected for the curemt year. Mr. M. 0. Bums, LL. B., '86, pres­ident; Mr. B. Vincent Pater, LL. B. '22, vice-president; Mr. Marc Fiehrer, LLB. '27, secretary, and Mr. Leo Boettinger, B. S. '25, treasurer. 
You can depend upon the Hamilton Club to do its share in promoting the ideals and welfare of Notre Dame in our city. 
HIAWATHA CLUB 

The President of the Club, John Lemmer of Escanaba, was a member of the Summer School faculty. 
During the summer, the announce­ment was made of the award of the Club's §100 scholarship to Paul Kreuz of Menominee. The first con­sideration in making the award is that the candidate must be in the upper half of his class in scholarship. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS September, 1929 
Other factors are leadership, ability in athletics, and extra-curricular activities. The winner this year is an exceptional young man. He was among the first ten in a class of 119 in scholarship, and was the winner of a cup bestowed annually by his high school upon its best athlete-scholar. He was a football man three years, captain his senior year when he was an All-Upper Peninsula full­back. He was also a member of the track squad. He was a member of the glee club, quartette and band, and active in student government. 
INDIANAPOLIS 
In spite of the advent of sundry '29 men of distinction, Indianapolis seems to have enjoyed the somnolence of an inland summer. Of course, the pres­ident of the Club, is a bridegroom and this early date is a bad time to expect outside activities from him. So there is hope that this space will be better filled next issue and there­after. A number of Indianapolis alumni did come up for the Lay Retreat. 
INTERMOUNTAIN 

Ray Brady, nor any of his con­temporaries in the Mormon capital, has written a word in from the great open spaces to say whether or not there are gold or bear in those moun­tains. 
JOLIET 
Joliet has been fairly active this summer and the officers are bent on putting the Club on the Club map with a large and glowing red pin (the sign of life). 
ICANSAS CITY 

Kansas City Kitty hasn't smiled on this particular department, with the result that an opportunity for public­ity for the City on the Kaw has gone into historj' its knock unanswered. 
KENTUCKY Eddie Pfeiffer, Secretary, writes: During the summer the Club has been fairly inactive, but with Septem­ber we expect to start again our monthly luncheons. We are also figuring on running another special from here to Chicago for the Southern California game and expect to have seventy-five or a hundred on board. The 1929 Class increased our Club a couple of members and we will have about two new men going to Notre Dame, somewhat through the efforts of the Club. LOS ANGELES Such is not true of Los Angeles, whose sunny year-round climate permits no alibis. 
MANILA 
It has been so long since the Editor has heard from Manila that he thinks it's a flavor. 
MEMPHIS 
Memphis has apparently not over­
come the blues. Or perhaps Red 
Magevney has been hurling ball this 
summer. 
MILWAUKEE 
Letters arrived from both James H. 
Wheeler, Secretary, and Dr. J. R. 
Dundon, President, but the two of 
them brought only the information 
that several parties and several new 
faces have kept the Club active. 
Fred Miller, captain of last year's 
football team, is a new member of the 
club, keeping in trim at the rowing 
club. 
MONTANA 
The Bishop has instilled a peace in his flock that is splendid after a fash­ion, but not the fashion involved in reporting their activities. 

NASHVILLE Nash\ille can probably be classed with the Southern states, which ab­solves them from responsibility for much activity other than that essen­tial to self-preservation, during the summer. NEBRASKA As the talking pictures would have it, a report from Nebraska like the President, is Mithen. 
LA.-MISS. CLUB Cyprian Sporl, Secretary, writes that the summer was inactive, and forgiveness for that is cheerfully given. Cyp adds the encouraging news that a meeting to plan the win­ter program is in immediate offing, with prospects for a big year. 
The Club is keeping a weather eye on JIarchmont Schwartz, one of Rockne's prospects, rumored to be the South's most capable player since Christie Flanagan. 
NEW JERSEY 

Joe Nulty, who has transferred his civic allegiance to Plainfield, N. J., 1056 Arlington Ave. to be exact, writes a welcome and exemplary let­ter: 
As yet we have not had our Sep­tember meeting due to the fact that the first Monday this year was Labor Day. However, we expect to get to­gether next week some night for our inaugural meeting of the new season. I believe that Rock is expected to attend, so we sure expect a bumper crowd to turn out. 
It has been the practice of our Club to start the year off with a Retreat, 
and our third one is scheduled to take 
place at the Loyola Retreat House in 
Morristown from September 13 to 
September 16 with a goodly crowd. 
Joe Byrne has been working his head 
off to make it a huge success and 
from present indications it looks as if 
Father Storck will have a wild bunch 
of "fightin' Irish" to handle that 
week-end. So you see, Jim, Father 
O'Hara need have no worry about the 
spiritual life of our Club with such a 
start each year, just like the old mis­
sion week of undergraduate week. . . 
Everybody here is still feeling the shock of Rupe Mills' death, for the Club knows what a prop has been taken from it, for when it came to real help, Rupe certainly did more than his share. . . 
My parting shot to you is to tell the Notre Dame world that the New Jersey Club meets the first Monday of every month at the Newark A. C, 
7:30 p. m., and that any time they are in the vicinity to drop in, for we assure them that they will have a mighty pleasant evening. 
Tom Farrell supplemented Joe's letter in an earlier communication with the fact that 25 members of the Club met at the Mills' home for prayers the night before the funeral. 

CITY OF NEW YORK The immediate activities of the New York Club appear under sep­arate heading on the New York page of the ALUMNUS, but several other activities can be commented upon to advantage. Eighteen members of the Class of 1929 were introduced to the Club at a special luncheon given at the Planters Restaurant, downtown New York, on June 19. The affair was attended in larger numbers than even the officers had hoped, and was very pleasant for both the old and the new members. The Notre Dame book display, through the courtesy and influence of the Club, closed a successful series of exhibits in the East in the window of Brentano's, 1 West 47th St., the second week in June. Ambrose O'Connell, Secretaiy of the Club, was a welcome visitor on the campus during the summer, and a number of other members of the Club were seen or rumored to be in the vicinity. The Editor passed Jim Meehan in the campus bookstore the other day and he holds his youth so well that he was mistaken for a stu­dent and got the casual greeting you get everyday. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 

Under the piloting of Keene Fitz­
patrick, President; Eustace CuUinan, 
Jr., Secretary, and John Mclnnis, 
Vice-president, the Notre Dame Club 
of Northern California is organizing 
for a big year on the Golden Gate. 
OKLAHOMA 

John Moran's marriage seems to 
have removed the Moran family to 
New York, leaving such a dent in the 
membership of the Club as to pre­
clude activities. But with the bride 
safely back among the oil wells, bet­
ter times should be coming by and by. 
PARIS 

Pat Harl has probably met a lot of 
Notre Dame men this summer, and 
some of the temporary chairs of the 
Paris Club should have been well 
filled, but 0 date no confirmation. 
PHILADELPHIA 

The City of Brotherly Love seems 
to be sa\nng its strength for the 
three-way pull of the football season. 
Army, Navy and Carnegie Tech. And 
those are three games that the 
accumulated strength of all the 
brethren can well be spent upon. But 
a few notes here next month will not 
be out of place. 
PORTLAND, OREGON 

The great Northwest seems to have . been out showing its wonders to tourists. No printed matter from the Notre Dame element, however. But with Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C, the new Vice-President at Columbia 
U. there, the Alumni Office expects a stimulus to be injected into the Club activities. 
EOCHESTEE, N. Y. 

Gerry Smith writes that nothing 
much was doing in Eochester during 
the summer except for the First Mass 
of Eev. George Fisher, C.S.C, cele­
brated June 30 at Blessed Sacrament 
Church, Eocehster, and attended by 
the U. D. Club. 
EOCK EIVEE VALLEY 

Twenty former and present stu­
dents attended the dinner which was 
held by the Eock Eiver Valley Notre 
Dame Club in Eockford the night of 
September 5. 
Eockford boys returning to school 
who were present are: Joseph 
petritz, Leonard Condon, Jr^, Harold 
O'Connor, William Craddick, Clifford 
Hyland and John Bennett. 
Dixon boys who will be back at 
school include Timothy Sullivan and 
Ed. Murphy. 
Clem McGuire, Mason City, Iowa, and Malcolm McVane, New York, who were visiting school mates in Eockford before going to the Uni­versity, attended the dinner. 
Joseph D. Rosenthal, '20, now an engineer in Beloit, Wis., was added to the ranks of the alumni in the new club at this meeting. 
Several of the older alumni, in in­forma 1 talks, indulged in reminis­cences of the days when Notre Dame had fewer than 1,000 students, while the present students assured those in attendance that the "old spirit" re­mained as strong as ever. 
Henry Fannan, Secretary, added to the above that a party planned for July 10 in honor of Tommy Mills, baseball coach and assistant football coach, had to be given up when Tom found it impossible to attend. Henry says the spirit of the Club is fine and prospects for an active year high. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 

The marriage of President Paul Castner was the outstanding event of the local summer, details in the Mar­riage columns. The Club also lost its last year's President, Abe Livingston, who died suddenly during the sum­mer. Plans are being made for regular luncheons during the Fall and Winter. The "home season" be­ing in Chicago this year has reduced the local football activities to those of the innocent bystander. 
ST. LOUIS Leo Sutliffe, '24, was up a couple of times this summer with scattered bits of news from St. Louis, but otherwise, like Memphis, the blues seem to have settled. SOUTHWESTERN TEXAS Joe Menger's brother was up this summer with news that Joe is satis­fying even the relatives, which is praise indeed. So that the Club ought to be prospering under his gen­ial and guiding hand. What we want ne.\t month is some of his genial and guiding handwriting. 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL NEW YORK 
A note from E. L. Schonlau, Secre­tary, says that the Club is planning increased activity and will have some announcements for the next issue. 
TWIN CITIES 

On August 29, Tom Lee, Secretary, writes, the Twin Cities Notre Dame Club had an informal dinner dance at the Bloomington Country Club. Miss Jacobsen, the fiance of James "Perce" Wilcox, a member of the Club, and Perce, were the excited guests of honor. A good crowd was present and the usual good time was had by all. Tom also sent some other 
dope that has been used to bolster up the Class colnnuis. TOLEDO 
No news from Toledo. Some of the boys probably went down to the depot in June and haven't got back to the city yet. Or maybe when the harbor f rezes over and the boats quit coming in, a little of that old Toledo pepper will season these pages. 
TRI-CITIES Evidently the activities of the sum­mer have been confied to the try. Well, enough Tri's wiU eventually succeed. Perhaps by October. 
WABASH VALLEY 

The Lehigh Valley is always being brought up, but some of the other Valleys are not so well established. However, the good old Wabash, which is not without its traditions and its publicity, is the subject of Presiden­tial attention this year which ought to pep it up and put it back on the aub map with the W & V with which it started out. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
The coming Fall will bring the mountain to Mahomet, in the form of bring Notre Dame into the Pittsburgh mountains to re-open that Carnegie Tech discussion. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 

E. Morris Starrett is coming back this Fall, which in itself is of sufS­cient moment to carry this column. Which is well, as all the destinies of the Club seem to have been wrapped up in Morrie's trip. Ed Cochrane, President, has opened new law offices, which has kept him occupied. 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO The last of the Mohicans was no more conversationally reticent than this last of the Clubs. Not even any "sign" language. 
NEXT MONTH—SOMETHING FROM EVERYBODY. 
Hering Active 

p. E. Hering, '98, spoke in advocacy of an old age pension law before 2,500 delegates to the aerie sessions of the Fraternal Order of Eagles, of which he is a former grand worthy president. The sessions were in Minneapolis, beginning Aug. 7. As editor of T?ie Eagles Magazine Mr. Hering has also carried this particular appeal for legislation to the members of that Order, and has spoken to many state gatherings. The Eagles are particulariy active in this agitation for pensioning the aged. 
llltlltiiifiiiiiiiilll 


ATHLETICS: 
B-

Coach Rockne Admits 
BY ART WEST 
K
NUTE ROCKNE arrived in South Bend Sept. 1 from his an­nual coaching school trip through the South and West, and at once plunged into preparations for the 1929 edition of that popular serial entitled "The Fighting Irish." 
llr. Eockne, like all good authors, is his own severest critic, and regard­less of the fact that he has millions of customers waiting eagerly for the new chapter of his book, all of them satisfied from his past productions that it will be up to standard, he de­clines to enthuse over the forthcom­ing issue. 
Jo)w. Chevigny 
"Fair, just fair," said Mr. Eockne, striving to give himself the air of a writing person who has waited in vain for the all important inspiration. 
"How about these new halfbacks, especially this chap Schwartz from the South?" he was asked. 
"Yeah, how about losing our whole backfield," he parried. "Your last year's freshman team was pretty hot, wasn't it?" 
"Well, fair," said the coach. "Just fair. Johnny Niemiec was a good man, and so was Johnny Chevigny, and Fred Collins, he was a good man. 
....0 

Prospects Fair 
"How about this Johnny Elder, the 
halfback?" "Fair," replied the coach. "Fair? Isn't he fast?" "Oh yes,' he's fast enough. As I 
say, he's fair." "Hasn't he equalled the world's record in the short sprints?" 
"Oh yes, Johnny's 0. K. Quite speedy. In fact I am I'ather counting on him as a key man. Now if we only had Niemiec and Johnny " 
"This chap Brill from Philadel­phia; wasn't he pretty flashy in the spring training?" 
Coach Kmite Rockne 
But all three of them are gone, You know they graduated." 
The lines at the corners of the coach's mouth took a distinct down­ward turn, and you could see that he was deeply grieved over the departure of Fred and the two Johnnies. He looked like he wished there could be a law against allowing good backfield men to graduate. 
John Niemiec 
"Well, fair," conceded Coach Rockne, "quite fair." 
And that's as far as the boss of the Fighting Irish could be prodded, ,at this time. "Later on," he promised, "after I get a better line on these boys, and find out how they have been spending their time this summer, maybe I can give yon something a little more definite." 

"What has Captain Johnny Law been doing this summer," the coach Jim Brady was asked. 
"Pushing bricks and mortar in a wheelbarrow," replied the coach, the comers of his mouth turning dis­tinctly upward, as though he thought pushing bricks and mortar in a wheel­barrow constituted the ideal summer vacation. 
Fred Miller 

Coacli Rockne announced that regu­lar practice would start on Monday, September 16, by which time he ex­pects the full squad to be here, ready for work. 
Of last year's Benders, the most serious losses through graduation were Freddy Miller, captain and tackle, and George Leppig, guard, and the whole first string backfield, con­sisting of Brady, Niemiec, Chevigny and Collins. 
To offset these losses Rockne has four sources from which to draw men for this year's team, last season's let­ter men, the resei-ves, the freshmen, and players of the inter-hall teams. 
The letter men comprise the fol-
John Laiv 

lowing: centers, Joe Nash and Tim Moynihan; guards, John Law, Jack Cannon and Gus Bondi; tackles, Ted Twomey, Dick Donahue, Frank Leahy; ends, John Colrick, Ed Col­lins, John O'Brien, Tim Murphy, Manny Vezie, Tom Conley; quarter­back, Frank Cai-ideo; halfback. Jack Elder; fullbacks, George Shay and Larry Mullins. 
From the reserves the following are available: 
Center, Tom Yarr; guards, Tom Kassis, Bert Metzger, Norm Herwitt, Bill Cassidy; tackles. Art McMamnon, Charley Schwartz; ends, George Vlk, Jack Carberry; quarterbacks, Al Gebert, Tom Keimeally; halfbacks, Bernard Leahy, Ed O'Brien, Carl 
Fred Collins 

Cromn; fullback, Paul O'Conner, Joe Savoldi. From the freshmen these are available: 
Center, Cavanaugh; guards, Zoss, Whelan; tackles, MacNamara, Con­nors; ends. Host, Izoe, Mahoney; quarterback, Murphy; halfbacks, Schwartz, Eoken, Brill, Kaplan; full­back, Williams. 
From the inter-hall teams the fol­lo\ving are available: 
Center, Rogers; guards. Van Roy, Seymour; tackles, Thornton and Car­mody; ends, Grisanti, Griffin; quar­terback, Christman; halfbacks, Wei­quist, Howard, Conley; fullbacks, Cormey and Kremer. 
No Thatik You, Mr. Haley, No Fifty- Yard Seats 
lEDITOR'S NOTE: While the title is, of coitise, fabuloxis, the folloivins outline of the ticket situation by J. Arthur Haley, '26, business manager of athletics, is fact. Mr. Haley, how­ever, assures the Editor that alumni are apparently coming to a realiza­tion of the difficulties of ticket dis­tribution. In fact, he states that most of the difficulty in the alumni sections is caused by the following: 
1.
 Failure to apply on Alumni blanks. (These are mailed out on the ALUMNUS mailing list. Too many alumni are indifferent about the Association, and as a result wrong or lost addresses cause them to miss the applications entirely or get them too late to be effective.) 

2.
 Failure to pay dues. (Here 


BY J. ARTHUR HALEY, '26 
again, indifference toward the Asso­ciation takes its toll. All applications of alumni paid are filled before the first application of alumni unpaid. The Association has no intention of using football preference as a means of collecting dues. The Association means more than that. But it is a service of material value to those who cooperate.) 
3. Failure to apply on time. (No matter what classification you're in, good seats cannot be held indefinitely. There are games in which demands are so great that paid-up alumni extend beyond the goal line.) 
The Editor also wishes to add something that Mr. Haley's modesty omitted. Notre Dame alumni receive eight preferred seats, whereas alumni of most of the larger institutions re­ceive two or four tickets, preferred if they have contributed to the stadium.] 
So you want to know what happens to all the fifty yard line tickets. I can tell you one thing, that if we placed everj'body that asked for fifty yard line seats in that position the disaster that would result from it would make the catastrophe of the Titanic seem a mere trifle. For just about eight letters out of ten ask for fifty yard line seats and the other f:wo say that anywhere between the fraty yard lines will be 0. K. Of course I do not blame the applicant for making these suggestions for I like ringside seats myself. Many applications are received made out on the regular 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS September, 1929 
application blanks, money for the tickets requested properly attached and no letter accompanying the reser­vation. But when a letter does accom­pany, the above is usually what is found. 
The games that we have the most of our ticket distribution difficulties with, are the games we have to play at Soldier Field in Chicago. This is partially because of the mammoth crowds who have attended these games and also because of the com­paratively few seats there are be­tween the goal posts, for we have just about twenty eight thousand seats for these games, both reserve and box, which might be termed choice seats. Or in other words just about one fourth of the capacity of the Sta­dium will receive ducats for this cen­ter section. 
For example this year we have sold over ten thousand season tickets, this together with the student body who will attend the games will take the entire West side of the Field to a point even beyond the goal lines. On the East side of the Field one half of the tickets, from the fifty yard line North, will go to the visiting team, and from the fifty yard line south there will be Uvo groups. First will be those alumni whose dues were paid by August 1st of this year and secondly those alumni whose dues were not paid by that date. .A.s you know each alumnus is allowed eight seats, and I can tell you, as perhaps you know, that all the alumni in this section take advantage of the tickets they receive and many of the alumni miles away from this district also take advantage of their blanks. The result is that when we have finished filling the alumni orders we find that we are some distance beyond the goal line on the south end of the Field. Then there are also a number of tickets which go to the squad and another number which are used for publicity purposes and are given to the newspapers. These are distrib­uted partially through the season ticket section. 
For another example of the distrib­ution of tickets we •svill use the Northwestern game in Evanston this year. It is the custom in Athletic circles to give the visiting team tickets from the fifty yard line one way, either north or south. In other words about one fourth of the tickets between the goal lines go to the visiting team. -At Evanston this year we will receive one fourth of the seats bet^vee^ the goal posts and the remainder we receive will be be­hind the goal posts. The tremen­dous demand from Notre Dame fol­lowers in Chicago can not be met with the limited number of tickets we receive. The number will not be nearly sufiicient to take care of the many followers of Notre Dame, and as Notre Dame is the visiting team we can naturally only expect the customary number of tickets. 
What is true of the Northwestern game holds true for any game where Notre Dame is the visiting team. In some places the location and quan­tity of tickets given the visiting team 
J. Arthur Haley, '26 

are somewhat different, but usually it is as stated above. 
The first to receive preference on tickets for games we play away from home are those who have purchased a box in the new Stadium we are build­ing at Notre Dame. This policy is followed in all schools whether through the sale of boxes, the sale of bonds, or through the donations of certain amounts, all people who have contributed to the building of the Sta­dium are given preference in the choice of tickets. I presume bet\veen five and eight hundred tickets will be sold to these box subscribers. Second in priority are the alumni whose dues are paid by August 1st this year; thirdly are those alumni whose dues are not paid, and fourthly, the gen­eral public. Here again it is neces­sary to take out certain tickets which are given to the squad and another number for the newspapers. 
It is not only at the beginning of the season that requests are made for seats in the center of the Field, for some times requests come for center 
seats when there are only some four thousand seats that remain to be sold. For example I had a party call me up the other night at my home, a man who lives in the city, and he wanted six season tickets. He also went further and asked that they be on the fifty or forty yard line. I had to inform him that the season ticket sale had closed September 1st which was just one week previous, after having been open since the twentieth of May. I also told him that even if it had been opened, seats that were sold at the close of the season ticket sale were down beyond the goal lines. Seats in the position that he asked for were sold the very first day of the sale. There is one thing that we can always depend on and that is that there will be a tre­mendous sale of tickets the first day of any ticket sale. We have sold as many as 15,000 tickets on an opening day of sale. 
The policy used in filling appli­cations is that each blank is stamped and given a number according to the date it is received in this office. Each group starts with 1 and is then con­secutively numbered. In other words, box subscribers begin -with one and their orders are filled; alumni whose dues are paid are numbered from one up as are alumni whose dues are not, and lastly general public. 
In the matter of season ticket sale there is no priority and all appli­cations are numbered according to the date they are received in this office. Alumni receive their priority on their individual game blanks. The season ticket section is a preferred section and this office has never received any complaint from season ticket holders. 
Q.. 
••a 

I FOOTBALL SCHEDULE | I 1929 I 
I Oct. 5—Indiana at Bloomington i I Oct. 12—Navy at Baltimore 1 i Oct. 19—Wisconsin at Soldier = i Field, Chicago. | I Oct. 26—Cai-negie Tech. at Pitts-I i burgh i I Nov. 2—Georgia Tech. at At-| I lanta i I Nov. 9—Drake at Soldier Field, j I Chicago I I Nov. 16—Southern California at i i Soldier Field, Chicago i i Nov. 23—Northwestern at Ev-i i anston 1 i Nov. 30—^Ai-my at New York | 
Q.. 
..Q 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Stadium Progresses—Boxes Selling 
ways and greens would have been much better than they are except for an exceedingly dry summer, the same dry summer that tormented the greenskeepers all over the land, and gave go\t courses everywhere a con­crete hardness. 
With the opening of the new term the University has employed an ex­pert to care for the course, and to help the boys get rid of their hooks and slices. He is Arthur West, for­merly of Ottumwa, Iowa, and a schoolmate of that distinguished alumnus, Ambrose O'Connell. Arthur and Ambrose were battery mates on the Ottumwa high school baseball team years ago, Arthur pitcher and Ambrose catcher. 
Mr. West has been identified with golf a great many years, mostly as a writer for golf magazines and daily newspapers. For a time he was con­nected in an advertising capacity with the Vulcan Golf company of Ports­mouth, the company of which Mr. Burke was head before his death. At the time of Mr. Burke's death he was in New York working on a golf book which Mr. Burke had commissioned him to write, and which, mth some revisions upon which he now is work­ing, he intends to publish in connec­tion with his present work at the Uni­versity. 
It is Mr. West's intention, after he gets the golf course in shape, and after it becomes too cold for outdoor play, to organize indoor classes of instruction, in which he can familiar­ize the students and faculty members interested in golf in the fundamentals of the game, so that next spring they can approach the links sport with a better understanding of what it is all about. 
In addition to his work in the golf department, Mr. West is also co-director with Mr. Archer Hurley of the University's publicity, and just now his time is divided between di­recting the golf course workmen, and whooping things up for the news­papers in connection •with the forth­coming campaign of what we feel quite sure will be a very successful football campaign of 1929. During the winter Mr. West very likely will also do some special work in the Department of Journalism, a field with which he is very familiar as a result of twenty years' experience on some of the largest newspapers in the country. He came to the University from the New York WorU. 
The work of excavation for the new Notre Dame stadium was completed some weeks ago by Ralph Sollitt and Sons whose bid was low for this work. Within the month it is ex­pected that the name of the bidder who will be the general contractor for the new stadium will be known, for at this time some sixteen con­tractors are going over the plans and 
specifications preparatory to making a bid which will give them the work of building the new Notre Dame stadium. 
Actual construction of the Stadium is expected to be started within the next few weeks and it is expected that work will continue from now until completion \vith the exception of the very severe winter months when no work will be done en the Stadium. 
The Stadium will be finished by September 1st, 1930 which %vill be in ample time for the football games in the Stadium next year. 
Art Haley, of the Athletic Office, reports the sale of boxes in the new 
-••­

Golf Expert to Supervise N. D. Course 
Stadium is moving along in a very satisfactory manner. These boxes are being sold for a period of ten years, and are payable over a period of four years in eight installments. This is a mighty fine way of knowing just where your seats are for the football games will be for the next ten years and with the ownership of a box go many privileges. Mr. 
Haley reports that many boxes are being sold jointly, that two parties are going together and taking one box, which is entirely satisfactory and in such cases both names will be placed on the bronze plate which marks the box purchased by individuals. 
Since the last list of box holders was published in the June ALUMNUS the following names have been added: Joseph C. Smith, T. J. Walsh, Notre Dame Club of New Jersey, Walter J. Riley, R. O'Hara, E. J. Fleming, Brit-ton L Budd, Bernard J. Fallon, Mat­thew A. Morison, W. W. O'Brien, John 
R. Dean, J. W. Hines, Thomson and McKinnon, and Thomas Byrne, Jr. 
T
HE new University golf course, made possible through the generous contribution of the late W. J. Burke, of Portsmouth, Ohio, is now open for play. Somebody must have spread the word all over the land, for as the students returned for registra­tion it seemed that practically all of them, seniors and freshmen alike, lugged in a golf bag. Some carried fine bags, filled with an assortment of clubs that would be the envy of a professional. Others had dilapidated old canvas containers with but two or 
three worn-out weapons. But many of them—it seemed a majority of them —had an assortment of some kind, and no sooner were they ensconced in their quarters than they hotfooted for the new course, eager to find out if the old slice remained with them or whether by some magic it had dis­appeared. In nine out of ten in­stances, we regret to report, it was still with them. 
The course, now one year old, is in excellent condition as to fairways, and passable as to greens. Both fair­
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS September, 1929 
B" 
Deaflis 

CAPTAIN ORVILLE TRYON CHAMBERLAIN, SS, a student at Notre Dame from 1S60 to 1862, when he left to join the Union Army, and who received an honorary A. B. from Notre Dame in 1S68, died in Prescott, Arizona, May 27, at the home of his daughter, Mrs. M. M. Simpson. 
Captain Chamberlain was born at Leesburg, Ind., September 1, 1841. He moved with his parents to Elkhart County, and entered the University. It was while at Notre Dame that he enlisted with the 74th Indiana Infan­try as a private. He was advanced rapidly for marked military ability to orderly sergeant, second lieutenant, first lieuutenant, captain, acting reg­imental adjutant, and judge advocate general court martial. Third Division, 14th Army Corps. At the close of the war he received an honorable dis­charge as captain, and declined a com­mission in the regular army to enter the practice of law. 
Supplementing his militarj' career, he was commander for three terms of Elmer Post No. 37, G. A. R., Elkhart, Indiana; Judge Advocate of the Dept. of Indiana, G. A. R.; Divisional Com­mander, 10th Congresional District, 
G. A. E.; and aid-de-camp for three terms to the Commander in Chief of the National G. A. R. 
Captain Chamberlain was the proud possessor of a Congresional Medal for "most distinguished gallantry, at the risk of life, above and beyond the call of duty, in actual conflict with the enemy" upon the famous battle­field of Chickamaugua. 
He held various other executive and honorary positions in the military organizations and was instrumental in pension legislation for Civil War veterans. His military activities brought him into close contact with Generals Grant, Sherman, Thomas, Garfield, Stedman, Wilder, Miles, and other Union heroes, of whom he was a personal friend as well as a mili­tary associate. A pair of pistols pre­sented to him by General Sherman for bravery were as highly prized by Capt. Chamberlain as his medal. 
He entered the practice of law at Elkhart and was the first city attor­ney of that city. Later he became 
•tllllllllllllllKllllllllllllllllllIIIDIIIIMIIIIIlill 
^THE ALUMNI 
a 

district attorney for the 34th Indiana 
Judicial District. 
Twenty-five years ago Capt. Cham­

berlain retired from the active prac­
tice of law and moved to California 
with his wife, who died in 1911. Two 
years ago he moved to Arizona to be 
with his daughter, and was a much 
honored figure in Prescott. 
MICHAEL F. HEALY, 66, L.L. B., 

'82 nationally known orator and 
Democrat, died at his home in Fort 
Dodge, Iowa, Sunday, June 23. Mr. 
Healy was the father of Rev. Kerndt 
Healy, Litt, B. '15, Superior of St. 
Joseph's Novitiate, Notre Dame, and 
Thomas Healy, '11-'12 El. '23, his 
father's law partner. He was active 
in the Alumni Association and keenly 
interested in the University. Al­
though he had been in failing health 
for several months, his death was un­
expected. 
Mr. Healy is survived by his ^\-ife and six children. Twelve years ago Mr. Healy was stricken with blind­ness, but accepted the affliction with a resignation and philosophy that made of these years one of the great­est achievements of his active career. 
Nine times he was a delegate to the national Democratic convention. One of the most notable events of his career took place in New York at tha national convention in 1924 when he seconded the nomination of Alfred E. Smith. The impression he made at that time was unforgettable to the thousands who heard him and saw him being led to the platform by his youngest daughter, Katherine. -At the 1928 convention, Mr. Healy seconded the nomination of Joseph Robinson for the vice-presidency. 
Mr. Healy went to Fort Dodge in 1882 and the many testimonials of his friends there bore eloquent tes­timony to his exemplary civic life. Besides his education at Notre Dame, Mr. Healy attended Columbia College, Dubuque; Har\'ard, and the Univer­sity of Michigan. He was a Shakes­pearean scholar, and after he became blind, the long passages from Shakes­peare that he had learned gave him much pleasure. 
Mr. Healy was active in the Bar Association, held a life membership in the Elks and was a Knight of Columbus. 
Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, 

president of the University of Notre 
Dame, preached the funeral sermon 
for Mr. Healy on Wednesday, June 
26, and Rev. Kerndt Healy celebrated 
the Requiem Mass. The ser\'ices 
were simple, as Mr. Healy had 
requested. 
-A paragraph from Father O'Don­

nell's sermon is a fitting sentiment to 
be echoed in these pages: 
"There is a pathos about death, 

there is a pity of death, that pre­
vents anything but charity from hav­
ing a voice on such an occasion. 
That is true of every death. We 
need not invoke that spirit this morn­
ing. This is an exceptional man. A 
pillar has fallen; a light has been ex­
tinguished; another watchman is 
taken from the walls of Zion. -And 
it is my happy, though solemn priv­
ilege to come from the University of 
Notre Dame, which is proud to be the 
alma mater of men like Mr. Healy, to 
pay a tribute of regard for him and to bring a message of sympathy for his family, to tell them that our memory of him will remain, our love for him is true, and that for many and many days the prayers of Notre Dame and the Congregation of Holy Cross, of which his son is so prominent and so true a member, will follow him to the gi-ave. . . " 
ABRAHAM LIVINGSTON, 60, a student at Notre Dame in 1884, one of South Bend's most prominent men, and president of the St. Joseph Val­ley Club 1929-30, died at his home in South Bend on Monday, June 24. Death was attributed to apoplexy. 
Besides his interest in Notre Dame, Mr. Livingston was actively identified ^vith many civic movements, the Com­munity Chest, of which he was an original organizer, the Chamber of Commerce, of which he was chairman of the merchant's division, and the Boy Scout council. His interest in South Bend was reflected in his appointment last spring by Mayor Montgomery as a member of the important track elevation committee of the city. He was president of the Temple Beth-El congregation for six years and active in the Jewish organ­izations and movements in the city. The Livingston clothing store of South Bend was one of the oldest 
September, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
establishments in the city, and is being continued. 
August 18, 1929. Editor of the Notre Dame Alumnus, Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Indiana. Dear Fellow Alumnus: 
The San Francisco papers of July 20th carried a news item telling of the death in Washington, D. C, of JUDGE NICHOLAS J. SINNOTT— a later issue told of his burial in the city of his birth. The Dalles, Oregon, on July 25, 1929. 
Nick Sinnott, as he was familiarly called by his friends, was born in the' Dalles, Oregon, December 6, 1870. His boyhood was enjoyed in the pioneer town that was long the end of the Oregon trail. His father, an Oregon pioneer, kept the Umatilla House, a hotel famed in that part of the coun­try, which was located on the main street facing the Columbia river. 
While at Notre Dame we were especially drawn together from the fact that we were both from the Pacific Coast, I hailing from Cali­fornia and he from Oregon. We rowed in the same crew in the old six-oar shell, the Minne-ha-ha. In those days boating was a favorite sport at Notre Dame. There were two 4-oar shells, the Montmorency and the Yosemite; and two 6-oar, the Minne-ha-ha and the Evangeline. 
Nick Sinnott received his bachelor degree from Notre Dame in 1892. Returning to The Dalles, he read law in the office of Judge Bennett. He was admitted to the bar in 1895. 
From 1901 to 1912 he was a mem­ber of the legal firm of Bennett & Sinnott. He was a m'ember of the State Senate in 1900-1911; and was elected to Congress from the second Oregon district in 1912. He was re­elected to Congress every two years, including 1926. He resigned from the National House of Representatives the summer of 1928, when President Coolidge appointed him to a Judge­ship in the Court of Claims. As Chairman of that important commit­tee on public lands, he was very suc­cessful in aiding western land px-o­jects. 
After his resignation from Con­gress and his appointment as Judge, he spent his vacation in his old home town. Our mutual friend. Doctor Griffith of The Dalles, knowing my admii-ation and early friendship for Nick, wanted me to join a fishing party on an Indian reservation fifty miles from The Dalles. I journeyed all the way from San Francisco to The Dalles to meet my boyhood friend. Nick and Doctor Griffith met me at the depot. We spent a pleasant week together in the wilds of Oregon, sleeping in the same tent. The weather was pleasant; the scenery rugged and beautiful; the fishing ex­cellent; but our overjoy was in remin­iscing of the days we spent as stu­dents at Notre Dame. We lived over again those happy times, discussed former classmates and friends, our dear teachers and the good Fathers who guided our youthful lives. Father Sorin, Superior General and founder of the Oi-der in the United States, a man of patriarchal appearance; Father Walsh, the President, a most lovable character and a brilliant ora­tor; Father Andrew Morrissey, Vice-President and Prefect of Studies (he taught me elocution) ; Father Regan, Prefect of Discipline; Father Hirsch; Brother Emanuel; Brother Paul; Bi-other Gregory; Professor Maurice 
F. Egan; the Swings, John and Neal; Gregori, the artist; Father Corby, of Civil War fame; and Father Hudson, editor of the Ave Maria. (Read last week in a San Francisco paper that Father Hudson had relinquished edi­torship of the Ave Maria after fifty-five years of sei-vice.) 
Col. Hoynes and Professor McCue— of all the men at Notre Dame in my day—the three last named are the only survivors. These men were all held in high esteem by Nick and my­self. Their example served as an inspiration to the students and helped give us whatever measure of success we have had in life. The sweetness of their lives and the purity of their character will linger with me until I meet them in the realm of eternal bliss. 
Nick enjoyed his visit to The Dalles last Autumn, far from the turmoil of official Washington. He expressed the hope that he could spend his vacation this year in the same manner. We had arranged that if he came West I would go up to see him, but I will never see him in this world again. He sleeps the sleep that knows no earthly waking in that little grave­yard on the banks of the mighty Columbia, where repose the ashes of his father and mother. I dedicate these memories to the Notre Dame ALUJINUS as a tribute to my friend and as a tribute to a loyal son of Notre Dame, so that those of his classmates who read the -A.LUMNUS will learn of his departure. 
Judge Sinnott was a good son, and an ideal husband and father, a bril­liant lawyer and an honest public servant. He was a credit to his alma mater—^Notre Dame. 
Nick Sinnott has passed on and we grieve his departure at the zenith of his worldly career. His legions of friends will mournfully miss him. Few had the ability to make and keep a friend like Nick Sinnott. While I met him only twice since leaving Notre Dame forty years ago, we cor­responded frequently and his passing leaves me lonesome and sad. 
To his beloved wife and family offer my sincere condolence. DR. J. M. TONER, Past President of Northern Cali­fornia Notre Dame Club. Supervisor of San Francisco. 
EDWARD J. FOGAETY, '85, for 25 years one of the outstanding pen­ologists of the counfiy, killed himself in South Bend on Tuesday, June 11, the result of a mental breakdown caused by the worries of his office as warden of the Cook County jail, Chicago. The nation, and in greater measure his personal friends, were profoundly shocked by the tragedy. 
Warden Fogarty, as he was nation­ally known from his years at the In­diana State penitentiary, Michigan City, and more recently the Cook County position, died almost within the shadow of his alma mater, at the home of a nephew, Edward C. Keller, 612 N. Notre Dame Ave. The War­den had come to South Bend for a rest following the terrific strain of the transfer of prisoners from the old to the new Cook County jail. It was said that for three days during this period. Warden Fogarty did not sleep. But no one anticipated the results or imagined the extent of his collapse until a shot summoned his sister, Mrs. Charles Keller, from next door and it was found that Warden Fogarty had used the police pistol of his brother-in-law. Sergeant Keller of the South Bend police, to inflict two wounds in his head, from which he died in St. Joseph's Hospital several hours later. 
Rumors of his dismissal by the sheriff of Cook County and political issues of his position were reported to have been instrumental in his breakdown. The reaction in Chicago, where Warden Fogarty had been appointed by a citizen's committee to do away with politics in the adminis­tration of the Cook County jail, was • powerful. 
EditoriaUzing, the Chicago TRIB­
UNE wrote: Warden Fogarty was a victim of the political system in which competency, administrative indepen­dence, and devotion to the public trust are suicidal qualities. Fogarty con­ducted the jail as if it were a private institution, and he the proprietor. Suitable men were selected for the jobs and the warden was ambitious that the jail should be the most mod­em penal institution in the country. Recently, however, Fogarty was sub­jected to influences which threatened to destroy his work. The prospect tortured him; he lost control and ended his life. 
REV. JOHN DESMOND O'SHEA, 
A. B. '93, died at his home on Wed­nesday, July 10. He had been a priest for 31 years. At the time of his death he was pastor of St. Gertrude's Church, St. Clair Shores, Mich., where he had been stationed for 15 years. During that time he had brought about the establishment of a convent and a school in the parish. 
For two years after his ordination, Father O'Shea was assistant to Mon­signor O'Brien in Kalamazoo. 
Funeral services were held from St. Gertrude's on July 11. One hundred priests from Detroit were in attend­ance at the solemn Requiem High Mass celebrated by the Rt. Rev. Joseph Plagens, Auxiliary Bishop of Detroit. 
RUPERT F. MILLS, LL. B. '15, died from drowning in Lake Hopat­cong, N, J., on Saturday afternoon, July 20, in an heroic rescue of Louis Freeman, with whom he was canoe­ing. Rupe's death—he was "Rupe" to everybody—occurred when the canoe upset and he was towing his compan­ion, who could not swim, to shore. The distance was about a hundred feet. Fifteen feet from shore, from where Freeman was pulled ashore by a witness to the tragedy, Rupe sud­denly turned to look at him with agony written on face, and losing his hold on the paddle he had used in towing Freeman, he sank in fifteen feet of water. He was taken out thirty-four minutes later and every eff"ort made to revive him, but vainly. 
Rupe Mills was an outstanding figure among the younger alumni. A four-letter man at Notre Dame base­ball, football, basketball and track, he was known to every student of the University. His activities in New York and later the New Jersey Clubs were responsible for much of Notre Dame's prominence in those centers. 
After leaving college he went into business with the Joseph M. Byrne 
& Co., and Rupe Mills and Joe Byrne 
Jr., classmates at Notre Dame, were 
as brothers. In addition to his busi­
ness activities, Rupe was always 
interested in athletics. He played 
semi-pro baseball off and on until 
1925. When he entered the contest 
for city commissioner in Newark, he 
gave up baseball. He had studied law 
and was admitted to the bar but never 
practiced. 
During the war, Rupe enlisted with 
the Essex Troop and went overseas 
with the Twenty-ninth Division i n 
September, 1918. He won a promo­
tion to a lieutenancy. After the war 
he assisted in reorganizing the Essex 
troop and he was commissioned captain 
of Troop A, a rank he held up to the 
time of his death. 
A few years ago the Rupert F. Mills & Co. general insurance office was organized. Such was his popu­larity and character that his friends organized a Rupert F. Mills Asso­ciation. Within two years eight hundred young men, from all parts of the county became members. The Association distributed gifts to char­ity at Christmas time. 
Rupe was a devout Catholic. Jesse R, Salmon, chairman of the Republi­can County Committee, a friend of Rupe's paid eloquent testimony to his Catholicity. "Rupe always thought of his Church on Sunday. I have seen him walk ten miles in the wilds of Sussex to attend Mass. On our recent trip down the Delaware, he would have walked farther than that, but I made arangements to have him taken to church in a car." 
At the time of his death, Rupe was undersheriif of Essex County and the Republican candidate for Sheriff. It was commonly conceded that his election was certain. 
Rupe is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Frank K. MiUs, 185 Roseville Ave., Newark. Both were prostrated by the news of the death of their son. The elder Mills said that Rupe and he had often gone far offshore while swimming in the ocean, and was at a loss to explain the tragedy. 
The funeral was remarkable testi­mony to the achievements and char­acter of so young a man. Twenty thousand persons lined the blocks around St. Augustine's Church. The funeral procession was one of the largest and most impressive ever seen in the coimty. Troop A of the 102nd Cavalry led the solemn march from the home. Rupe's chestnut horse Friendship, walked behind the officers who acted as casket bearers. Among those in attendance were Governor 
Larson of New Jersey, United State's 
Senators Edge and Kean, and prac­
tically all of the members of the city 
and county government. 
All the organizations in which 
Rupe was active were in the proces­
sion. The Notre Dame Club of New 
Jersey had visited his home and the 
bereaved parents. The Club received 
Communion for him in a body and 
offered a Mass. The Monogram Club 
of the University is to offer a Mass 
for him on September 20, three 
months after his death, celebrated by 
Rev. J. Hugh O'Donell, C.S.C, a team­
mate of Rupe's. 
The eulogies of Msgr. Edward F. 
Quirk, pastor of St. Patrick's Cathe­
dral who delivered the funeral ser­
mon, and the hundreds of testimonials 
from persons of high and low estate 
who had enjoyed contact with Rupe, 
were eloquent of his beautiful char­
acter and his remarkable achieve­
ments. 
In the memory of his life Rupe 
Mills has left a beautiful monument. 
The ALUMNUS e.\tends the sym­pathy of the Alumni Asociation to DR. JAMES M. DINNEN, '96, whose wife, Mrs. Catherine Dinen died during the summer. 
To HON. EDWARD N. HURLEY, 
LL. D. '18, whose brother, John D. Hurley, died Aug. 16. To HOWARD EDWARDS, '09, whose son died during the summer. 
To GEORGE DEVER, '23, whose father, Hon. William E. Dever, for­mer mayor of Chicago, and a friend of the University, died September 3. 
Man'iages 
A wedding of Notre Dame interest took place in Washington, D. C, on June 8 when Miss Helen Marr Mitchell, daughter of HUGH C. AHTCHELL, '95, became the bride of Thomas Taylor Neill, son of CHARLES P. NEILL, '93. Many social events in their honor preceded the wedding. 
MATTHEW D. McENIRY, '22, Denver, and Miss Bettina Cole, Den­ver, stole a march on friends and eloped to Golden, Colo., July 29, where they were married two weeks before a more elaborate ceremony planned for them in Denver. 
PAUL CASTNER, '23, former football and hockey star, and presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, was married on Aug. 30 in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, to Lolita Kuehl Coifee of Davenport, Iowa. Mr. and Mrs. J. HOWARD HALEY ("23) were the attendants. EEV. JOHN CAVA­NAUGH, C.S.C, '90, performed the ceremony. Mr. and Mrs. Castner are at home at 805 N. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend. Paul is an executive of the Studebaker Corporation. 

The June reunion of the Class of '25 was dealt a severe blow during the sumer by the wholesale marital entanglements of sundry members. Beunions during the first year of married life are relatively unimpres­sive. 
JOHN ROBERT MORAN, '25, of Tulsa, Okla., was married to Miss Josephine Miriam Farley, daughter of Mrs. Mary Tack Farley of New York, at the Church of St. Ignatius Loyola on the 24th of August. WAL­TER MORAN, '24, brother of the gi-oom, was best man. JOHN P. LYNCH, '25, and GILBERT SCAE­FER, '25, were ushers. Mr. and Mrs. Moran will live in Tulsa. 
Frank Steel of Akron reports the 
culmination of another N. D.—St. 
Mary's romance in the marriage of 
BERNARD LEY, '25, and Miss Es­
ther Bailit, of Akron, on June 21. 
WILLIAM JOSEPH NEVILE, '25, 
formerly of Casey & Neville, if you 
remember, was married on June 29 to 
Miss Helen Teresa Growney, daugh­
ter of Mrs. Helen Growney of Bata­
via, N. Y., Bill's home to\\'n. 
GEORGE COE LAUGHLIN, '25, 
was married to Miss Rosaleen Eliz­
abeth Montague, daughter of Mr. 
Michael Montague and sister of 
JOHN MONTAGUE, '23, at the 
Church of St. Philip Neri, Chicago, 
on August 17. 
Jeri-y Herlihy stopped in the Alum­
ni Office this summer on his way 
home from the wedding in Chilli­
cothe, 0., on July 15 of GEORGE 
FRANCIS DEISCOLL.'25, and Miss 
Bemice Keezer. A brother of the 
bride and sister of George's were at­
tendants. BILL SEIDENSTICKER, 
'25, and HAL KEAUSER, '26, with 
Jerry, were the ushers. George and 
Mrs. DriscoU left on a honeymoon in 
Canada. Jerry added a hieroglyph 
that no rice was purchased. 
JOHN A. NOPPENBERGER, '25, coach at Spalding Institute, Peoria, former varsity football man, and for­mer Corby baseball star, was married to Miss Velma Louise Jacks, daugh­ter of Mrs. Ellen D. Jacks, of Cin­cinnati, on August 1, in the Chapel of the Holy Spirit, Cincinnati. Noppy has had considerable success in coaching since his graduation. 
VINCENT F. HARRINGTON, '25, also a former varsity football man, was maried to Catherine Louise O'Connor, daughter of Mr. T. J. O'Connor of Omaha, in that city on June 7. Tubby and the lucky bride will be at home at 607 Seventeenth St., Sioux City, Iowa, where he is in the banking business. 
NORBERT ANTHONY CLAN­CY, '25, was married to Miss Ruth Margaret O'Melay of Hillsdale, Michigan, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Fred O'Melay, in Saint Anthony's Church that city on June 19. JAMES D. COLLINS, '25, was best man and GEORGE KOCH, '25, usher. The Duke and his duchess mil live in Detroit, promoting the automobile racket. 
NORBERT ANTHONY ENGELS, '26, also sought out the Chiirch of lus patron Saint in the same city of Hillsdale on the same morning as Duke, being united in marriage shortly after the Clancy ceremonies to Miss Eleanore Ferry, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Fred Perry of Hillsdale. VIN­CENT, '23, of the Commonweal, New Yory City, was best man for his brother. The ushers were WILLIAM ENGELS, LOUIS PATTON and WATTS EICHER, all Notre Dame men, and George O'Meara. Mrs. Engels and Norb are both contrib­utors of poetry to a number of lead­ing Catholic publications. They are living on Poster St., South Bend, while Norb teaches at Notre Dame. 
FREDERICK FERGUSON, '26, 
was married to Miss Beatrice Kissell, 
daughter of Mrs. iVnna Kissel of 
South Bend, in St. Joseph's Church, 
South Bend, July IS. REV. WIL­
LIAM P. LENNARTZ, C.S.C, '08, 
officiated. Fred and Mrs. Ferguson 
are at home in Cleveland, O. 
JAMES A. RONAN, '26, was mar­ried on July 2, to Miss Margaret Maloney, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John E. Maloney, Chicago. The cere­mony took place in St. Ignatius Church. 
PAUL JOSEPH HARRINGTON, '26, was married on June 17 to Miss Margaret Mary ICnue, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Louis Knue, of Indian­apolis. Paul, who was intercollegiate pole vault champion for a time and one of the outstanding scholars and athletes at the University, is living with his bride in the St. Regis Apart­ments, Indianapolis. 
ELROY EDWARD HABEET, '26, will be married to Miss Ethel Anne Fleming, daughter of Mr. and.Mrs. Clayton E. Fleming of Cleveland, on September. 18 in St. Vincent de Paul's Church, Cleveland. 
The Class of '27 will have to put a little extra effort into keeping its column filled as the Class Secretary will be distracted. 
Mr. Paul Bekerich, Sr., of South Bend, has announced the engagement of his daughter. Miss Emma Beker­ich, to EDMUND J. DE CLERCQ, '27. The weding will take place in St. Joseph's Church, South Bend, September 17.. 
JOHN WILLIAM BRENNAN, '27, was married on August 27 to Miss Helen Veronica Powers, Le Boy, 
N. Y. John and Mrs. Brennan are at home at 2775 Main St., Buffalo, 
N. Y. 
-ANDREW FRANCIS SLEIGH, '27, was married on August 28 to Miss Margaret Cecile Malloy, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Eichard Malloy, in Saint Patrick's Church, Weston, West Virginia. 
BARTHOLOMEW C. FAVERO, '27, was married on June 12 to Miss Edna Eemeza, of Vandergift, Pa. The wedding took place in Vander­grift. D. A. FITZGERALD, '27, Mundelein, HI., was Bart's best man. Other classmates present were BILL HOLLAND and JOHN CARTON of Indianapolis, BILL SULLIVAN of New Berlin, Dl., and B. X. GEEMIL­LION, Alexandria, La. Bart and Mrs. Favero will be at home in Leech-burg, Pa., where Bart is associated with his father in the furniture business. 
JOHN T. VOEDISCH, '28, star end on the Notre Dame team, was married to Miss Jean English, daugh­ter of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Eng­lish of South Bend, on July 7. Ike and Mrs. Voedisch are at home in a beautiful new home, 1715 E. Wayne St., after a wedding trip in Canada. Ike is with his father in the ice and coal business. 
STANLEY A. GEINAGER, '28, Fergus Falls, Minn., was married to Miss Phyllis Whitcomb, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. F. E. Whitcomb of South Bend, in Fergus Falls on June 
24. EMMETT GEINAGER, '25, was best man. Stanley is also a brother of HAAVEL GEINAGEE, '23. He and his bride are at home in Fergus Falls, after a wedding "trip in Canada. 
EDMUND AETHUR GLEASON, '28, Decatur, HI., was married to Miss Frieda Enckhansen, daughter of Mrs. Harry Enckhansen of South Bend, in the Loretto Chapel, St. Mary's. Art and his wife are at home in Akron, 
O. Art attended the Harvard Law school, and his vnfe is a gradaate of the Wisconsin School of Physical Education. 
Miss Helen Elizabeth Weiss of Mt. Vernon, N. Y., was married on Sept. 11 to ELBERT E. BURSON, '25, 1 Heywood Road, Pelham Manor, N. Y. Bert, who was forced to discontinue nis course in Journalism by the death of his father in Litchfield, 111., his home, has had a very successful career. He is managing editor of the Pelham Neios and ^ace-president of the Garrison Publications, Inc. 
J. PAUL JOHNSON, '26, of Ko­komo, Ind., was married on June 25 in the Log Chapel at the University to Miss Firma Carey of Kokomo. LEO GRACE, '25, and Miss Mai-y Helen Carey of Kokomo were the attendants. REV. CHARLES L. O'DONNELL, C.S.C, president of the University, performed the cere­mony. 
JAMES F. BERRY, '28, Roches­ter,ter, N. Y., was married on July 17 to Jliss Margaret Buysse, of South Bend, Ind, in St. Joseph's Church, South Bend. JOSEPH BRAUNSDORF, '28, was best man, and Jim's sister. Miss Margaret Berry, was maid of honor. JOHN LARSEN and EUGENE PHILLIPS, classmates, were ushers. 
ALBERT FRANTZ, '29, Denver, Colo., was married in St. Joseph's Church, South Bend, on June 25 to Miss Dorothy Jean Spry, of South Bend. REV. JOHN F. O'HARA, C.S.C, '11, officiated. 

ALBAN M. SJHTH, '27, LL.B. '29, was married on June 5 to Miss Dor­othy Stapish, in the Log Chapel on the Notre Dame campus. Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, per­formed the ceremony. JOHN SMITH, '28, former captain of the varsity eleven, was best man. Miss Elizabeth Sapp was bridesmaid. AI and MK . Smith are li%'ing in Laporte, Ind., where Al is connected with the firm of Osborn & Osbom, attorneys. 
Some of the weddings of the sum­mer were reported in that vague way that makes it impossible for an Edi­tor to repeat with any great amount of accuracy. However, following are a few of them, as received. 
Leo Sutliife, '24, who has been on the campus t^vice this summer on business, reports that HERB EG­GERT has taken the big step. Herb moved a few times and the Office lost his address, but he is now with the Old Ben Coal Co., in St. Louis, Mo., Boatmens Bldg. 
Several of the boys from the East called the Editorial attention to the regrettable omission of any mention of the marriage of EDDIE BYRNE, '26, on April 27, to Miss Teresa Far­rell of Wilkesbarre, Pa. 
RAY "BUCKY" DAHMAN, '28, former football, basketball and ballet star, was married on Sept. 2 in Mor­rissey Chapel at the University by REV. THOMAS LAHEY, C.S.C TOM BYRNE of Cleveland was best man. 
FRANCIS "LEW" CODY, '26, was also married at Notre Dame, June 24, by REV. EDWARD FINNEGAN, 
C.S.C A letter from ROBERT Q. JIURPHY, '26, Chicago, says that Lew and Mrs. Cody will live in his neighborhood. 
RAYMOND C. CUNNINGHAM, 
'25, was married June 15. Mrs. Cun­
ningham was a Toledo girl, but has 
joined Ray in his interesting but 
elusive migrations in the interests of 
the Russell Studios, Chicago. 
BOB MURPHY'S letter from Chi­
cago also mentioned the fact that 
GEORGE HARTNETT and STEVE 
PIETROWICZ were among the sum­
mer casualties, but no details. 
To all the unnamed wives, regrets. 
Births 
An alumni magazine last year com­plained to its readers of a surplus of baby spoons purchased for new babies among the alumni and asked the cooperation of the alumni in avoiding a similar surplus the ensu­ing year. The following brief indi­cates some such situation among the Notre Dame alumni. Either more announcements must reach the Editor or the Editor will have to place Father Bolger in charge of this department, for reorganization. 

RAY SUTTER, at Notre Dame in '19 an '20, now living in New York City, is the father of a baby girl, born in July. 
GEORGE WACK, '23, became the father of twin girls for the outstand­ing paternal achievement of the summer. George, who teaches at the University, now has four children, two boys and two girls. 
DANIEL R. CONNELL JR., M. E. '25, is the father of Daniel Richard in, bom July 27, weight 7% pounds. Chicago is the lucky city. 
AL FELLNER, '25, Belleville 111., wrote during the summer saying among other things that he had a baby girl over a year old. So you see this column is really no indication of what actually goes on, and this particular subject is not one permitt­ing too much investigation. 
TOM COMAN, '25, completed a fourth at bridge, to use his unofficial announcement, when CaroljTi Ann joined her fifteen-months old brother Tom Jr. on August 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. LEON NELSON ST. GERMAIN, '23-'25, announce the arrival of Leon Nelson, Jr., on Aug. 9. 
VICTOR LBMMER, '26, Marenisco, Mich., did the Glee Club and Debat­ing team a good turn on August 2, when William Peter showed up in Hiawatha Land, 
HECTOR MAC NEIL, Boy Guid­ance '26, is the father of Hector Jr., bom in Boston on July 18. Bad hockey weather, but Hector will have him on skates this winter. 
HENRY DILLON, '26, put a cheer­ing unit in the Calumet District on June 10, a boy. 
J. ARTHUR HALEY, '26, busi­ness manager of athletics, took on a new business managership when J. ARTHUR JR. signed his lifelong lease in St, Joseph's Hospital on June 
16. Between Papa and Uncle How­ard, '23, Foster St., has been deprived of the problems of ticket distribution in favor of newer and lustier cheer­ing sections for the new stadium. 
-And, lest there be a misunder­standing, all the above children have mothers, charming mothers in fact, but as this is the only place in which the proud fathers get full credit, let this belated mention suffice. 
^ 
Personals 
Before 1880 
.Alark M. Foote, 501 City Hall, 
Chicago Illinois. 
Dix Reunion '78, '79 
Next June! The Editor was pleased to note the Class Secretary, 5IARK FOOTE, '77, setting a good example as an attend­ant at the Lay Retreat, Aug. 15-18. 

Hon. WILLIAM P. BREEN, '77, delivered the address of w-elcome on June 18 when RT. REV. JOHN F. NOLL, D.D., LL,D. '15, returned from a trip to Europe and the Holy See. 
1880-1885 

Prof. Robt. M. Anderson, Stevens Inst, 
of Tech., Hobokcn, N. J. 
Dix Reunion '80, '81 
Next June! 

It is also 'SOs 50-Year Reunion. 
The Editor received a letter from 
DR. SAMUEL P. TERRY, '83, dur­
ing the summer, asking about Com­
mencement. Dr. Terry was resting 
at a sanitarium, Martinsville, Ind. 
Dr. Terry was enthusiastic about 
Father Chai-les O'Donnell's address at 
the alumni banquet, and was grieved 
at the news of the death of Jlichael 
Heaiv, with whom he was in school. 
1886 

Michael 0. Bums, 338 S. Second St., 
Hamilton, Ohio. 

THOMAS J. SHERIDAN is ref­
eree in bankruptcy of the U. S. Dis­
trict Court, with offices at 354 Russ 
Bldg., San Francisco. 
1887 

Hon. Warren A. Carticr, Ludington, 
Michigan. 

It must give the Class Secretai-y somewhat of a regret to see the Uni­versity athletic program outgrow Cartier Field, but there must ac­company the regret a great sense of satisfaction for the marvelous things done on the old Field. 
1888 

John L. Heineman, Connersville, Ind. 
J. L. HEINEMAN maintained N. 
D. prestige by rounding out the diploma which his son WILLIAM re­ceived last June with a trip to the Pacific Northwest, including British Columbia. GEORGE HEINEMAN, who is a senior this year, accompan­ied his brother. They called at Columbia University while passing through Portland and there met Fathers FARLEY and TOM BURKE. On the return trip they spent a week in Y'ellowstone Park. 
1889 

Hon. James V. O'Donnell, 105 N. Clark St, Chicago, HI. BEN HESSE, a student at N. D. in '89, stopped with his wife and son on his way back to Fort JIadison, Iowa, from a 3700 mile auto trip to Quebec. 
1890-1893 

Louis P. Chute, 7 University Ave., 
Minneapolis, Minn. 

FERDINAND G. LONG, a student from '84 to '89, when he received his degree, wrote this summer about foot­ball tickets on the stationery of the New York World. 
The Editor tried to persuade JIM HENLEY and the Editor's Uncle, of Jackson, Mich., to attend the Lay­men's Retreat, but started the cam­paign too late for this year, eliciting a promise for next. 
1894 

Hugh A. O'Donnell, The New York 
Times, New York City. 

The Class Secretaiy got back from Europe too late to come out for Commencement. Hugh is now a mem­ber of the Advisory Committee of the Western Universities Club of New York City. 
C. C. FITZGER.ALD sent a gener­ous check to the -Alumni Fund. He added that it might be the last check if the U. S. tariff on sugar is legis­lated, as it would affect Cuban sugar seriously. 
1895 

Eustace Cullinan, Sr., 860 Phelan 
Bldg., San Francisco, Calif. 

The Class Secretary now has one of the gi-eatest pleasures that can come to a father, his son, EUSTACE JR., practicing with him. 
1896 

William P. Burns, 327 Willard Ave., 
Michigan City, Ind. 

REV. THOMAS CRUMLEY, C. S. 
C, is back as a valued member of the 
faculty of philosophy after a vacation 
during the summer. 
1897 

Rev. John MacNamara, 16 Elm St, 
Garden City, L. I., N. Y. 
Dix Reunion Next June! 

(The new Class Secretary was ap­pointed when JOSEPH V. SULLI­V.AN asked to be relieved of the du­ties. Mr. Sullivan has a new address by the way, 439 Aldine Ave.) 
As a preliminary to sending out a call to the reunion of the Class, the Secretary is anxious for information as to the whereabouts of JAMES HENRY BROWNE, M.ARTIN J. COSTELLO, WILLIAM C. HEN­GEN, R.ALPH I. PALMER and JAMES J. SANDERS. 
The Secretary would be pleased to hear from all members. All the stu­dents around '97 will remember BILLY WALSH, ex '97 Law,-who was quai-terback on the '95 football team. He is now better known as Hon. William Walsh, the e.x-mayor of Yonkers, N. Y. His address is 51 Park Ave., that city. Billy has re­ceived many deserved honors from his fellow citizens and is one of the leading members of the Westchester County bar. He has a son who hopes to enter Notre Dame in 1931. Billy is an active member of the Notre Dame Club of N. Y. 
THOiJLAS B. REILLY is clerk of court in the Borough of Bronx, New York City, Tom's address is 1210 Tinton Ave., New York City, and he has a Notre Dame Club right at home as two of his boys attended Notre Dame. 
1898 

F. Henry Wurzer, 1632 Buhl Bldg, Detroit, Michigan. Dix Reunion Next June! 
A note came from PETER E. KEARNEY during the summer, from his insurance firm at 111 W. Wash­ington St., Chicago. 
WILLIAM F. MONTAVON had a splendid outline of the Vatican-Ital­ian pact in the July issue of Current Histoiv/. 
1899 

Dr. Joseph F. Duane, 418 Jefferson 
Bldg, Peoria, Illinois. 
Dix Reunion Next June! 

FRANK WARD O'MALLEY up­set the American press recently when he moved his entire family to Switzer­land and told reporters in New York that he would not subject his children to the American mind. "America is too bigoted to live in," he said. "W^e are a narrow, prejudiced, mean and small-minded people, as the last elec­tion showed." Mr. O'Malley at pres­ent has a series of articles in the 
American Mercury. 
1900 

Francis O'Shaughnessy, 10 S. La Salle 
St, Chicago, Illinois. 
Dix Reunion Next June! 

President JOHN EGGEJLAN at­tended the Layman's Retreat and ^vill be heard from again before many moons have elapsed. 
1901 

Joseph J. Sullivan, No. 1300, 139 N. 
Clark St, Chicago, Illinois. 

REV. GEORGE JURR, C.S.C, has ben transferred to Holy Cross Col­lege, Washington, D. C, to teach theology. 
1902 

Peter P. McEIIigott, 320 W. 23rd St, 
New York City. 

REV. LEO HEISER, C.S.C, was a visitor at Notre Dame while at home in South Bend for a vacation from his duties at St. Edward's U., Austin, Texas. 
1903 

Francis P. Burke, 904 Trust Co. Bldg, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 

FRANK BURKE writes, "My old friend, FRANK J. BARRY, now practicing law at 810 S. Spring St., Los Angeles, called to see me a few days ago. He was one of the dele­gates to the International K. of C. convention at this city. Frank is looking fine and I enjoyed my short visit with him very much. 
1904 
Robert Proctor, Jlonger BIdg., 
Elkhart, Ind. 
The Class Secretary received a dis­tinct honor this summer when he was elected Grand Worthy Vice-President of the Frate-nal Order of Eagles at the Grand Aerie convention in Min­neapolis. The nominating speech was made by G. A. PARABAUGH, a classmate, vdth PR.A.NK E. HER­ING, '98, past Worthy President of the Eagles and editor of the Eagles Magazine on the platform. A news­paper article says that the election practically assures Bob of the presi­dency next year. 
A note was received from REV. MICH.A.EL SHEA, St. Joseph's Sem­inary, Yonkers, during the summer, with a word of encouragement for the new plan of iinancing the -Association. 
HOWARD CAREY, his wife, mother and brother-in-law, visited the campus for the iirst time since he left in '04, during the summer. He is now li^^ng in La Salle. 
1905 Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. La Salle St., Chicago, Illinois. 25-Year Reunion Nest June! 
The Editor met WILLIAM D. J.AMIESON, his wife and five of his eight lovely children in the University cafeteria one day in August. 
DAN O'CONNOR paid a couple of quick visits to the campus during the summer, but his stays were short. 
1906 
Thomas A. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen 
Bldg., Spokane, Wash. 
The Editor sees WILLIAM P. O'NEILL on the street every once in a while, and if there is a prouder grandfather in the U. S., it is pos­sibly the Editor's father-in-law, but for Mr. O'Neill, the world's axis is now Cleveland, where DENIS, '25, and his baby are doing exceptionally well. 
1907 
T. Paul McGannon, 36 W. 44th St., New York City. 
REV. WILLIAM MOLONY is pull­ing out all the old tricks of the '07 trade to tide him over in his new job as Registrar during the September rush. 
VERY REV. JAMES W. DONA­HUE, Superior General of the Con­gregation, went this summer with Father Hilary Paszek to France, to re-establish a seminary of the Con­gregation. 
1908 
Frank X. Cull, Bulkley BMg, 
Qeveland, Ohio. 
REV. J. AUGUST RATH, who re­cently assumed his duties as pastor of St. Patrick's Church, Sonthold, L. L, 
N. Y., made a fine impression upon his new townsmen when he invited the non-Catholic clergy of the town in for an informal luncheon. The Southold paper was warm in its praise and promise of Father Rath. 
1909 
E. P. Cleary, P. O. Box 356, Slomence, Illinois. 
The Editor urges the co-operation of the Class for the new Class Secre­tary, succeeding JOHN B. KAN­ALEY, whose merger -mth his broth­er BYRON, in the firm of Cooper, Kanaley & Co., involved him so that he could not continue. 
1910 
Rev. 31. L. Jloriarty, 527 Beall .4ve., 
Wooster, Ohio. 
Special 
Rip Van Winkle Reunion 
Next June! 
RT. REV. GEORGE FINNIGJVN, C.S.C, D.D., was featured during the summer in a series in the Catholic press, "Meet the Hierarchy." 
The following letter from the Sec­retary is illuminating: Friend James: 
Of course I must be a day late but you can surmise the lot of excitement and turmoil connected with the open­ing of a school year—even in a small town. I am sending herewith my check for Alumni dues and I promise to raise it in the course of the next few months. You will find also a check from Steve Herr. Steve and I are planning on the "Twenty Year" celebration next June. Judging from the response I received from the class of 1910, our reuning group will be made up of Otto Hanon, Steve Herr, Lucius Andrus and the bald-headed secretary. I had a splendid letter from Hanon. He is taking care of a lot of mills and that helps him in taking care of a lot of Hanons— Mrs. and four, no five, four girls and one boy. I must get that word to Red Miller. Steve is still banking at Chatsworth, 111. 
We had a great Notre Dame "Pil­grimage" to Wooster the day previous to my departure for the Summer School. It is possible that some of the Cleveland men wrote you about it. Some of the boys played golf. Most of them, however, carried a bag of clubs and walked around the fields. The caddies here are still find­ing balls all over the country. We had about fifty-five men for the din­ner at the club. Billy Ryan was there in person. -4s the Wooster paper has 
it occasionally "delicious refresh­
ments were served and the guests de­
parted at a late hour," etc. 
I enjoyed a great summer and I am 
looking forward to the work of 
rounding up the 1910 class for a real 
Rip Van Winkle party next June. 
Yours, 
M. L. MORIARTY. 
1911 
Fred L. Steers, 1666 First Natl. Bank 
BIdg., Chicago, Illinois. 
A letter from FRED STEERS 
says that the Class of '11 was as in­
communicado during the summer as 
previously. 
Two of the C. S. C. members e.x­
changed locale, REV. WILLIAM .4. 
C.A.REY going to Portland to take 
REV. THOM.AS L.A.HEY'S place as 
\'ice-president, the latter coming to 
Notre Dame as associate editor of 
the Ave Maria. 
1912 
Edmund H. Savord, Box 135, 
Sandusky, Ohio. 
W-ALTER DUNCAN enjoyed a va­
cation in Canada this summer. .A.t 
least a post-card suggesting that the 
Homecoming game be played in 
Toronto led to that conclusion. 
1913 
James R. Devitt, 921 Engineers BIdg., 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
BILL TIPTON dropped a veiy in­
teresting note to the Editor from 
Watrous, N. Me.^., about TOM TRU­
DER, '16, printed under that year. 
1914 
Frank H. Hayes, Union Bank of 
Chicago, Chicago, HI. 
A note was received during the 
summer from ED McGOUGH, a stu­
dent from '10 to '12, now deputy 
sheriif of Logan County, Lincoln, HI. 
The Alumni Office is enjoying the 
convenience of a Star Paper Fasten­
er, the contribution to progress of 
GEORGE T. HANLON, JR., founder 
of the Star Paper Fastener Co. of 
Michigan, Transportation Bldg., De­
troit. George has the exclusive 
agency for all the stapling devices,­
etc. in the state of Michigan and cele­
brated the company's first birthday 
• recently under full steam. This idea of giving samples of your business to the Alumni Office is not bad. Bank­ers please note. 
Mr. and Mrs. R.4.Y jnLLER were visitors at Notre Dame, August 16, enjoying a brief respite from Ray's heavy work as Cuyahoga county's prosecutor. Ray delivered the Com­mencement address at John Carroll 
U. last June. 

GEORGE J. MASSEY, Frank Hayes writes, is among the lawyers of 1914 who are making good in Chi­cago. George is engaged in the gen­eral practice of law at 105 W. Monroe street. 
1915 

James E. Sanford, 8212 Kenwood 
Ave, Chicago, III. 

ALBERT A. KUHLE, Sioux City, has been promoted from assistant manager to manager of the agency development, life, accident and group departments of the Sioux City branch of the Travelers' Ins. Co. Mr. Kuhle joined the Travelers in 1925 after a number of years' experience in Sioux Falls, S. D. 
NORMAN C. BARTHOLOMEW is with the Commercial Bank Ins. Co. at Iron Mountain, Mich., and was one of the organizers of the Hiawatha Land N. D. Club last Spring. 
1916 

T. P. Galvin, 708 First Trust Bldg., 
Hammond, Indiana. 
Dix Reunion Next June! 

EDW. N. MARCUS, of Detroit, Mrs. Marcus, and three children, were welcome visitors at Notre Dame the early part of August, on a motor trip. FRED PRALATOWSKI, his wife and little girl, also drove out. Fred's daughter, unfortunately, was taken ill and the visit not as com­plete as he had hoped. 
TOM TRUDER is district attorney of the 4th Judicial District in New Mexico and mayor of Las Vegas, and is active in the K. of C. and Ameri­can Legion. 
1917 

John U. Riley, 244 Washington St, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
Dix Reunion Next June! 

JOHN must have forgotten to sound reveille. 
1918 

John A. Lemmer, 1110 Eighth Ave, 
Escanaba, Michigan. 
Dix Reunion Next June! 

Frank Doan, '29, worked for a while during the summer with the Fairchild Publications in New York at the desk next to CHARLEY CALL and reports that Charley is the ex­pert for the company in his field. 
1919 

Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce St., 
Gary, Indiana. 
Dix Reunion Next June! 

JOSEPH C. McGINNIS announces that he is now located in the Stand­ard Trust Bldg., 112 W. Adams St., Chicago, associated with A. R. Sheriff in the practice of law. 
1920 

Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black Bldg, 
Los Angeles, Calif. 

WALTER MILLER has deserted his native buckeye state and is prac­ticing law with Otis & Co., Chicago. 
CHARLEY GRIMES was a wel­come campus visitor during the sum­mer. 
1921 

Alden J. Cusick, 530 Grant St, 
Denver, Colorado. 

This from GEORGE O'BRIEN: 
Mr. and Mrs. "O'Bie" beg to an­nounce that a daughter arrived on Tuesday, August 27, A. D. 1929. Weight 7 pounds, and already fam­iliarly known and affectionately called Jean Carroll O'Brien. Father's chest expansion, 78% inches. 
That makes two little folks, a boy and a girl, so laugh that off Alden, old dear. 
I am still practicing the law in and about Rochelle, and keeping ahead of the installments on the furniture. 
I am enclosing herewith a copy of notice of the official fall feeding under the auspices of the Rock River Valley 
N. D. Club. You may use your own judgment. I am Treasurer and they may have to get out a search warrant to find me. Wish you might be there. 
BILL ALLEN has been out twice this summer and is doing great. 
I am planning to see many of the boys at the Wisconsin and Southern California games. 
BEN BERVE, at N. D. during '06, is Deputy U. S. Marshal here. 
Read in last week's Billboard that CHARLES BUTTERWORTH is a riot in Hammerstein's new show— SWEET ADELINE—based on the old barfly ballad—and Oh, Brother! how Charlie could blast it way back when. It hasn't opened in N. Y. as yet but those in on the know say the show is off to a great big season and will be a smashing hit. 
RALPH DUMKE teaming with Ed East is one of the regular features of radio station WGN. A sweet voice the boy has and should do well in the big city. 
"RED" DECOURCEY gets out to Rochelle every month and we hash over past, present and future. Red was quite sick for a time but is again on the road to health and is feeling fine. 
1922 

Gerald Ashe, 1024 Monroe Ave, 
Rochester, N. Y. 

ED COCHRANE has opened law offices -ivith George F. Ward at 1117 Smith Tower, Seattle, Wash. 
And from the new Class Secretary: GEORGE FISCHER was ordained to the priesthood at Notre Dame on June 25. Several of Father George's former classmates of '22 were present at Notre Dame for his ordination and also on the occasion of his first solemn high mass at Blessed Sacrament Church, Rochester, N. Y. FATHER JAMES DONAHUE, Superior Gen­eral of the Holy Cross Order, made a special journey to Rochester to preach the sermon. Father Fischer is at present acting assistant at St. Patrick's, South Bend. DOCTOR HANK ATKINSON, who spent his pre-medic days at Notre Dame with the men of '22, is now City Health Officer of Green Bay, Wis. Hank's one big failing was Hershey almond bars in days gone by when we were associated with him at 
N. D., and we wouldn't be surprised if the ailing citizens of Green Bay are taking the almond bar cure. 
LEO McGARTY announces with no little pride the arrival of a baby daughter at the McGarty home. Leo is with the Home Life Insurance Co., Chicago. Congratulations, Leo. 
A bright football future is in store for Michigan State College. JUDGE CARBEREY, varsity captain of the 1922 eleven, is to act as line coach at 
M. A. C, assisting SLEEPY JIM CROWLEY of Horsemen fame, who has been appointed Head Coach at the Lansing school. 
JERRY DIXON, romanticist, has just returned from the West Coast where he manages to spend a month or two every year. 
An unconfirmed report is now in circulation to the effect that WAL­TER KLAUER has made a down payment on a new Ford. 
Extra! BILL CASTELLINI has affiliated himself with the Archer Adv. Agency, in addition to his work with the Brotherhood NatL Bank, Cincinnati. 
1923 
Election Results Next Month. 

MERLIN ROLWING dropped a note to say that MATT KEEGAN is living at the K. of C. Club, Indianap­olis, connected with the Prest-o-Lite Company. 
BILL VOSS ^vrites that his good friend SPIKE FLINN expects to make the Wisconsin game, providing his back doesn't give out mixing cement and he can date a tdephone operator in Chicago after fhe game. 
TOM liEE writes that JAMES PERCE WILCOX was married to 
(ConUnned on Faze 30) 

lllllllllllllllllll • ••IIIIIIIIIIIMIMMIIMIIIlltHllltllllllllllllMlllllllllllllllltlllllllllllltllllllllll 
0" ..g 
The Notre Dame Club o/fAe City of New York 
lllllllllliillllllllllllllll 
Club Headquarters 
22 East 38th Street 
Phil J. Doherty 
Ambrose O'Connell 
Peter P. McEU^ott 
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW 320 West 23rd Sti-eet 
WHOSE BUSINESS CARD WILL BE HERE NEXT MONTH? For details see AMBROSE O'CONNELL 
Rockne Special to Navy Game 
A letter arrived just before press time from Ambrose O'Connell, Secre­tai-y of the New York Club, saying that the New York AlumniTOU run a special train over the Pennsylvania from New York to Baltimore for the Navy game on Saturday, October 12. It will consist of chair and observa­tion cars and will be called the Rockne Special. 
The train will stop at Newark and West Philadelphia. The time of de­parture from New York is 8:30 a. m. and the round trip fare from New York to Baltimore, including a ticket to the game and bus transportation to the Municipal stadium, is $12.50. 
From Newark the fare is the same as from New York. From West Philadelphia the fare is $8.50, and from Washington, D. C, it is ?6, tickets to the game, and bus included. 
New York alumni now have a head­quarters for the football season in Room 2002, Hotel McAlpin, New York City. 
Ambrose wrote from Saranac Lake, where he was attending the National Tax Conference. He made the trip up the Hudson and through Lake Champlain, with a party including Tax Commissioner Maurice Stephen­son, on a motor launch. 
With the tough schedule Notre Dame faces, all the support of alumni and friends is needed. But it takes no special urging for the Eastern alumni to take advantage of this splendid arrangement of the trip to the Navy game. The organized at­tendance will add greatly to the in­dividual pleasure in the trip and the game, as well as put Notre Dame spirit into the event that would be lacking if the attendance were hap­hazard. 
October 12 
William E. Cotter 
William A. Daunt 
A New York Alumnus 
John T. Balfe 
PERSONAL INSURANCE 
lAje Insurance Ttmsts Corporation Insurance Inheritance Taxes Undei'wntten 
Graybar Building 
NEW YORK CITY 

lllllllllllllllll iiiiiiiiiiiiiKiitiiiiiiiniiMiiiiiinNiHMiiiMiiiniiiitiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiii I.B 
Q" 

IIIIDtllDlllillliillllltMltlllllllil 

0" "S 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Business and Professional Directory 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii)iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiii')iiii>iii)iiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiMi •••••ttiiiitiiiiMiKiiiiittiiiiMiiiiiiiHiiiiMiiMniitwiMniiiMiiitMiiiMiiiiMiiiiitMimiiiitniint 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS | The Alumnt Fund 1 DAYTON,OHIO 
i Developments in the Alumni Fund, Established 1911 I announced in August through the JOSEPH B. MDRPHY, '11 I circulation of a pamphlet showing the 
COOPER-KANALEY and CO. ATTORNEY-AT-LAW 
i comparative payment of dues by 
309-15 Mutual Home Bldg. 
FIRST MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS 

1 Clubs and Classes, has not progressed 
Dayton, Ohio 120 S. LaSalle St., Chicago. 

I rapidly enough since that time to 
Murphy & Murphy
Tel. Franklin 0353. 

\ warrant the space of publishing the i slightly altered figures. SOUTH BEND, IND. : Alumni must realize the seriousness 
Rate 

i of contributing to the support of the \ Association. If the present system for the Next Nine Issues I works out satisfactorily, and brings 
POLAR ICE & FUEL $22.50 
\ in enough revenue to conduct the COMPANY = Association on the basis proper to its 1 development, or better, essential to its 
John (Ike) Voediscli, '27 I existence, there will be no J.eed for Don't Under-estimate I Ass't Manager i the dozens of little appeals for other 
the Scope of the I

I forms of contribution that now have I to be made to supplement the insuf-ALUMNUS. I 1 ficient revenue from dues. 
ALUMNI OF OTHER 
llltllllllllllllllllllHIIIIIIItllllllllllllllllDIIIIIMMIIIIIUIIlin Z

= The new system asks only what the 
SCHOOLS = alumnus can afford to give. Five dol-
Many Commissions |

Use It to Great 1 lars, the old amount of dues, was re-I tained as a minimum, because imder have been lost to N. D. |
Advantage. 

I the modem money conditions, a col-Men through lack of this i 1 lege man, unless he is suffering actual very Imowledge. f I reverses, can afford five dollars, and 
THE ALUMNUS 

i the amount is small in keeping with Is Read by 5,000 N. D. i the value of the Association to the \ individual and the University. THIS PAGE I
Alumni. 

i Gifts from five to one hundred dol­
and several like it should |

I lars have ben received. But a study I of the figures on the pamphlet will be filled Next Month. |YOUR N. D. FRIENDS I convince you that the latter are as 
itiiitMtii(tiiiMiiiiniiiitiiiiiiiiii)ini)iiniiiiniiini<i))tiiiiii z

i rare as the blossom of the century 
Want to Do Business 

I plant itself, while the former are DON'T WAIT I With You. \ much more numerous than the income 
to see who else is in. |

i of a college graduate would warrant i the Directors in anticipating. That's what is I i The traditional idea that the Uni-
Wrong Now! i

This is One of Your First i versity and all connected with it are i combined in a leg-pulling marathon 
Opportunities to Profit 

I is true only insofar as the lack of 
as Alumni. i voluntary support has made it neces-IF YOU I \ sary for the University and all con-CAN USE BUSINESS |i nected with it to employ leg-pulling 
THE NEW ALUMNUS I as the sine qua non. Take one of these Cards, i \ No Club and no Class is near a
is a Better but Costlier 

i point permitting them satisfaction. Magazine. i One Class passed its quota through 
Rate is payable by month, 

i the generosity of an individual and I the modesty of the quota. None of in advance, or in June. Send Copy for = the quotas is unreasonable. The total the Next Nine Issues to i of the amount asked is as small an MUlinMIIMtil Z i amount as the conduct and progress 
J. E. ARMSTRONG 

I of the Association permits. 
Box 81, Notre Dame, Ind. SEND YOUR COPY. 
-B 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS September, 1929 
No Losses Income Fixed and Certain 
The income from a. Jolin Hancock Life Annu­ity is ebsolalely atmred. You need fear no losses—no reduced income. Your declining years can be freed from financial worries as they should be. $ 1,000 or more will create A life income of anskrinkable charge' ter. For persons of limited capital, there is no safer way of providing a secure income for old age. Our book, "Ufe Incomes Through Annuities," tells what the John Hancock Life Annuity plan has done for others— what it will do for you. 
Said for This Book! 
• INQUIRY BUREAU ­
197 CUrendon Street, Boston 
Fleuetend booUet*'IJfe Incomes Hiroush Annuities." 
Name ...«.,. 
Aiittu. 

Miss Dagmar Jacobsen in Minneapolis on Aug. 31, with Tom as best man. The news arrived too late to classify. 
BOB QUINN wrote from Ottawa, Ont., where he was recuperating from an operation before returning to 523 River Terrace, Hoboken. 
COENIE PFEIFFER writes that ART ANGERMEIEE is now one of the officers of the Chas. Rosenheim Co., largest china jobbers in the South. 
BILL FITZGERALD of North Vernon, Ind., was recently married. Most of the felows of '23 ^vill remem­ber Mrs. Fitzgerald as a guest at the Ball of '23. 
Returns on the new Class Secre­tary are far from complete! 
1924 
James P. Hayes, 358 Fifth Ave, New York City. 

HENRY F.A.NNAN'S journalism training makes him a good cor­respondent for the Rock River Valley Club, of which he is Secretary. 
BROTHER GILBERT, C.S.C, who is in New Orleans, won an aviation essay contest, giving him an oppor­tunity to fly to St. Louis and return. 
HUGH BOYLE has completed his law studies and is now with Fagan, Dillon & Fagan, Heni-y W. Oliver Bldg., Pittsburgh. 
JOHN E. REGAN was ordained to the priesthood in Great Falls, Mont., on June 15 by Rt. Rev. M. C. Leni­han, D.D. .4.fter completing his course at N. D. he taught a year at Columbia, Portland, and then went to St. Benedict's, Atchison, Kansas, to take his four years of theology. 
BILL GALLAGAN \\-rote from General Motors of Brazil, Avenida Presidente Wilson 201, Sao Paulo, saying that the ALUMNUS was al­ways welcome though usually a few months late. 
HUGH BLUNT is now associated with Judge S. B. McLeod and Ovide Foitier i nthe practice of law, 217 Home Bank Bldg., Brockton, Mass. 
The Class Secretary wrote that he had a busy summer, spending ?103,­000,000 of New York City's money to relieve the ti-affic on Fifth Ave. by a vehicular tunnel under the East river. 
1925 
John W. Scallan, Pullman C c 79 W. 
Adams St, Chicago, III. 
Five Year Reunion Next June! 

BEN RESTING has a new and permanent address in Toledo, having bought a home at 173 E. Broadway. Ben is looking for a record breaking Reunion. 
JOHN QUIGLEY was a welcome Wsitor in the Alumni Office for an all too brief time this summer. 
CHUCK COLLINS has signed an­other two-year contract at the U. of North Carolina. 
SCALL.4.N himself acted as God­father to the greatest male baby since 1902 at his baptism on June 9. (Refer any argument to the Editor.) Scal­lan, by the way, had a couple of sick spells and a new Buick also. 
FR.A.NK STEEL writes that he is still in the law and that PAUL SAG­STETTER is still with the General Tire Co., in Sioux City, Iowa. 
FATHER TOM McAVOY, C.S.C, was ordained on June 24, and is now archivist at the University Library. 
DAN O'NEIL wrote his usual in­formative letter recently, in spite of vacation, making the N. J. Club re­treat, tennis, Moran's wedding and the A. T. & T. JOHN P. TRAYNOR is in these parts and probably will add postscripts, but too late for this issue. Pa, BAETLEY and O'Neil enjoyed the Moran wedding along with LYNCH, SCHAEFER, et al. Dan says that MAC BRULE has been transferred to the New York office of the G-E, living at 897 Sterling Place, Brooklyn. 
HARRY McGUIEE, editor of Out­door Life now, dropped a note to say that BOB HURLEY and a friend, one of the McCABES, stopped en-route to Yellowstone during the early part of July. 
FRANK HOWLAND e.\pects to begin business in Chicago this Fall, coming there from Streator, where he has been district manager of an in­surance company. 
JOE MENGER'S brother, WiUiam 

A. Menger, general manager of the Southern Messenger, brought good news of Joe on a summer visit. 
TOM BARRY, one of the main­stays of the Chi Herex, dropped a cordial note with his dues. 
RUSS ARNDT, who is practicing law in Mishawaka, shows up once in a while. 
BILL BELL dropped a note about football tickets. He hasn't missed an Army game since '25. He is with the Taylor Instrument Co., Rochester. 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE LUDWIG were guests of the Editor for a day or two, but Ludwig had to get back to mix a little fresh gas for Grand Rapids in his own inimitable way. 
1926 
Gerald W. Hayes, Northwestern 
Medical School, Chicago, III. 

JERRY HAYES stopped at the Office on his way east for a vacation following summer school at N. U. Jeriy expects to get his M. D. a year from December. JIMMY STACK finishes his medical course at N. U. the next semester. Jerrj' promises more dope from now on. 
P.AUL H.A.RRINGTON has formed a connection with the Standard Oil Co., of New Jersey, and will go east shortly, to reside in Elizabeth, accord-in? to a report from Indianapolis. 
JOHN McMULLEN, who is con­fining his tackles to potatoes and onions, was a visitor on the campus several times during the summer. 
DON MINTER is now located at 6 N. Clark St., Chicago. 

D.\N O'NEILL and TOM SHERI­DAN, with three friends, came out on their annual pilgrimage and spent several days in South Bend. They were going back to New Jersey by way of Louisville. 
1927 Edmund De Clercq, 7212 Circle Ave, Forest Park, Illinois. 
You can't expect much news here with the Secretary getting married Sept. 17. 
LOmS CONROY and JOE MOR­RISSEY were down recently before going into the athletic year at Pontiac, Mich. 
DICK HALPIN has been in once or twice this summer. Dick, JOHN and JACK CANIZARO are still the Three Musketeers of Chicago. 

DON WILKINS writes that the Tribune is still the WGN, thanks to the presence of many prominent 
N. D. alumni. JIM VALLELY is still mining at Kimberly, Nevada. FRANCIS COLLINS MILLER stopped by on his way from Petoskey, where he spends the summer months. He is in the advertising business. HARRY O'BOYLE is living at 46a Elm St., Worcester, Mass., and will coach the Holy Cross backfield this Fall. BOB IRMIGER is now practicing law by himself at 140 N. Dearborn St., Chicago. HARRY BIEDKA dropped a note saying among other things that he had pased the Illinois bar exam. EMMETT BARRON also passed the 
bar exam, in Iowa however, during the summer. 
1928 

Louis Buckley, Notre Dame. September finds your Class Sec­retary back at Notre Dame teaching Economics and working on his Mas­ter's degree. A few '28 men are still about the campus and are always anxious to talk about the old gang. JIM ALLAN, BOB WARD and BILL JONES are carrying on '28 traditions 
B 
in the Law school. BILL JONES is now known as a coach as he has charge of the Freshman line this year. ANDY BOYLE received his Master's degree in August and con­tinues as a member of the faculty this year. A number of the '28 men were on the campus registration day OTth younger brothers. BOB KIRBY left his undertaking establishment in Indianapolis long enough to see that his brother received the proper start at Notre Dame. Bob gave him the fine points in the training of a cheer leader. GEORGE SARGUS was back long enough to introduce his brother into South Bend society. 
A letter from ART DENCHFIELD in June informs us that he is now in Montevideo, Uruguay, South America with the National City Bank. Art promises to be back in three years for a little reunion. 
.4RT GLEASON has done his part to increase the number of '28 men who have married. Art was married last month to Miss Freda Enckhasen, of South Bend. 
Here are a few Manhattanisms giving :us the dope on the '28 men there during the summer: 
The beer in Hoboken the night ART DENCHFIELD left for South America CARROLL PINCKLEY at SHOW GIBL watching Kuby Keeler tap .. . . JOHNNIE McMAHON writing the features for the New York Sun about Colmnbia summer school ... . ADRIAN LOPEZ summering at Stamford, Conn. . . . JOHN CULLINAN down from Bridgeport to see JIM SHOCK­NESSEY ... . JACK WINGERTER and WALLY LAYNE meeting Paul Fenlon at the Penn Station ... . BEENIE CAREER living at the International House ... . CONNIE OCHOA with National City Bank ... . JIMMIE CONMEY going through the Old Mill at Palisades three times with a brunette ... . TURK KELLEY with the best tan in town ... . ART CANTY pulUng the biggest surprise of the season when he bought a swell looking girl around and said "Meet the wife." ... . ART STENIUS in Detroit again ... . BILL LEAHY standing outside the NEW MOON stage door ... . the summer dances at Columbia's famous Barnard Hall with more Notre Dame men there than Columbia loafers ... . GEORGE BYRNE laying the comer-stone to be an architect ... . EDDIE BURKE back to the campus for a summer visit ... . FRANK BRAN­SON who asked LARRY CULLtNEY how he happened to make such a 
iiiiiiiiililtiiittiiiiiiiii*il>iiti 
B 

THE OSBORN ENGINEERING CO. 
7016 EUCLID AVE. CLEVELAND, OHIO 
ENGINEERS AND ARCHITECTS 
Designers of the New Notre Dame Stadium 
TWENTY YEARS EXPERIENCE 
Twenty-four Stadiums and Athletic Fields Fourteen Baseball Parks Five Fair Qround Grandstands 
WE WILL BE GLAD TO FURNISH REFERENCES 
llllllMltlliillllllKII 

E|M„ •III llllllll •a 
success in such a short time and Larrj' who answered that he merely gave the people what they wanted and Branson who queried : "But isn't that against the law?" ... . FRANK REILLY selling bonds ... . BILL O'BRIEN on Fifth Avenue looking like a Brooks Brothers model ... . JOE BRANNON'S wisecracks relayed from Chicago BOB HAMILTON recalling some of the basketball games of '27 and '2S . . . . the Round Table every Sunday a^ter JIass at John Jay AL DUFFY who still insists that the ducks sen-ed in the refectory were decoys ... . JIM SHOCICNESSEY at the play JOUR­NEY'S END ... . the class of '29 heading for Manhattan. 
HENRY HASLEY and MARK 
WUNDERLIN pased the Iowa bar 
exams. Henry, however, is with 
HON. WILLIAM P. BREEN in the 
practice of law in Fort Wayne, Ind. 
GEORGE LEPIG dropped a line on 
Otis & Co. Cleveland stationery 
where he is in the bond business. He 
says that JACK IGOE is working 
for the National Tube Co. in Lorain, 
that JERRY BtTTLER was anxious 
about the Ohio bar exams, that 
LOUIS CARR was in Cleveland for a 
short time but was transfered by the 
Mechanical Rubber Co. to New 

Haven, Conn. 
George Scheuer, '28, state editor of the South Bend News-Times, recently spent a week in the Windy City as a guest of the Chicago Daily News. He found JACK MULLEN, '28, a busy man in Tribune tower; ROBERT CAPESIUS, '28 in charge of a department at Carson Pirie Scott's by day and harking to the council of an aged lawj'er at night; ART ZIMMER, '28, conveniently located on the first floor of Marshall Field's; JACK DOYLE, '28, still handling suits, but with Montgomei-y Ward's & Co. 
FRANK SIUDZINSKI, '29, a hustling reporter—for the Daily News; and RICHARD ELPERS, '28, hobnobbing with Margaret Anglin, Otis Skinner and other stars. 
HERBERT McCABE was found at 149 Broadway, New York City, after being unclaimed. 
TOM LAVELLE was planning a trip to California at last reports. 
The BEIRNE Brothers wrote those very welcome signatures from Fair­field, Conn. 
JOHN P. CAVANAUGH is with the Chestnut St. Engraving Co., Philadelphia. 
1929 

Joseph P. McNamara, 231 Wisconsin St., Indianapolis, Indiana. 
OLIVER SCHELL, who is now located at 611 W. 111th St., New York City, writes that he has seen JOE SULLIVAN, WALTER GREER, and JOHN CUSHMAN of '29 in New York. 
JOE CANTY and TOM HAPPER passed the Ohio bar exams. FRANK DOAN is going big with the Crowell Publications in New York. 
BILL BISER irates that JERRY BUSCH is planning on teaching at West Bloomfield, N. Y., and that BERNIE O'CONNELL is working in 

New York.  
ART  LINTZ  is  taking a  trip  
through  Alaska  during  the  late  
summer.  

The Class Secretarj-, appointed more or less pro tern, is practicing law with Walsh & Hoffman, 1050 Consolidated Bldg., Indianapolis. 
MATT CULLEN, JOHN LYONS, TOM JOHNSON, ALBION GRIFFIN and TOM GRIFFIN were successful in the Illinois bar exams. Dean Konop reports. 
Reading Lists for N. D. Alumni 
Continued 

present working on "Solomon's Run and Its Convent," a unique study of the domestic liife in the convent. 
Sister Josephine, Litt. B. '22, is a writer of poems, magazine articles, and essays of a literai-y and histor­ical nature. Her work frequently appears in America. 
Sister JL Eleanore, Ph. D. '23, has published: "The Literary Essays in English" (text-book, 1923), "Talks With Our Daughters" (1924), "The Little Flower Series for Children" 
(1925), "The Life of St. Francis for Children" (1926), "Troubadors of Paradise" (hagiography, 1926), "Certitudes" (1927), "Through the Lane of Stars" "Lives of Saints for Children" 1928). 
Sister Angelita is a writer of mag­azine verse, and published "Starshine and Candlelight" (1925). 
Sister Ignatia has been editor of the magnificat for over 20 years. 
Mrs. Eleanore Perry has published poems in America, the Ave Maria and in the American Book of Verse. 
Summer Brings Important Changes at University 
Continued '29, will become an instructor in English, and George Keegan joins the public speaking department. 
Additions to the faculty from the clergy have been announced. Rev. Thomas Lahey, C. S. C.,'ll, is a wel­come addition, after an absence as vice-president of Columbia U., Port­land. Rev. Henry J. Bolger, C. S. C, '24, will become a teacher of physics. Rev. Anthony Rosewicz, C. S. C ,'11, is inaugurating a course in Polish. Rev. RajTnond Murch, C. S. C, '23, is Joining the department of chemistry. Rev. Raymond Clancy, C. S. C. and Rev. James Ryan, C. S. C. the faculty of Religion. 
Alumni everywhere will be inter­
ested in the rectors and prefects of the 
Halls for the current year. They 
have been announced by the Rev. 
Charles L. 0' Donnell, C. S. C, as 
follows: 
Sorin Hall, Rev Walter La\in, 
C.S.C, rector; Rev. Charles Doremus, 
C.S.C, and Rev. Peter Hebert, C.S.C. 
prefects. 
Corby Hall, Rev. Dominic O'Malley, 
C.S.C, rector; Rev. Anthony Rose­
wicz, C.S.C, and Rev. Andrew Schrey­
er, C.S.C, prefects. 
Walsh Hall, Rev. James Ryan, 
CS C, rector; Rev. Raymond Murray, 
C.S.C, Rev. Frederick Gassensmith, 
C.S.C, and Rev. Philip Beaghan, 
C.S.C., prefects. 
Badin Hall, Rev. James Connerton, 
C.S.C, rector; Rev. Henry Bolger, 
C.S.C, and Rev. Paul Dohertj', C.S.C, 
prefects. 
Lyons Hall, Rev. John Ryan, C.S.C, 
rector; Rev. John Kelley, C.S.C, and 
Rev. James Kline, C.S.C, prefects. 
Morrissey Hall, Rev. Patrick Hag­
gerty, C.S.C, rector; Rev. John Rey­
nolds, C.S.C, and Rev. Francis 
O'Hara, CSC , prefects. 
Sophomore Hall, Rev. John Mar­
graf, C.S.C, rector; and Rev. Francis 
Cavanaugh, C.S.C, prefect. 

Freshmen Hall, Rev. George Hol­derith, C.S.C, rector, and Rev. Ray­mond Norris, C.S.C, prefect. 
Howard Hall, Rev. Raymond Murch, C.S.C, rector; Rev. Thomas Lahey, C.S.C, and Rev. Francis McVeigh, prefects. 
Off-Campus, Rev. J. Alan Heiser, C.S.C, director. 
St. Edward's Hall, Rev. Raymond Clancy, C.S.C, rector; Rev. Fmncis Maher, C.S.C, Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C, and Rev. Thomas Kelley, C.S.C., prefects. 
Brownson Hall, Brother Aidan, C.S.C, rector; Brother Aloysius, C.S.C., Brother Ignatius, C.S.C, and Brother Patrick, prefects. 
Carroll Hall, Brother Maurilius, CS.C, rector; Brother Ralph, C.S.C, and Brother Philip, C.S.C, prefects. 






