The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
/ 7 

THE XOTRP: DAME 
Oi 
o^:^­
"\-y^ 
•-^^•' ^ 
IN THIS ISSUE: 
« bU''.'. ' -J ii' 3---.3 ••} 
• 
H. -;"c; '. •,;:; °;o.: 

• 
3 J „3.-=. P-og:,"!-­

• 
::.::-:iD". !~i 

• 
i--::-;ri D^i. :-i5--i 0'':r 




No. 1 
jb Nov.; 
•f V 
%: ;•
,».. • <5 • • • • * •• 
C'
^ 
V * "'• v^ :f­
o. 


^' ''. 
.'•'' 
—•
Vv 
<«• 

50R' 


October, 1936 

Notre Dame 
on the Air! 
The famed Notre Dame Band and Glee Club .. . on the Columbia Network from coast to coast! Broadcast originated by WSBT! The Inter-Hall Talent Contest . . . every Hall producing a radio show . . . broadcast by WSBT! St. Edward's is the 1936 winner! Day after day, through the whole school year, you can hear a Notre Dame student announcer saying: "From our studio in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, located on the Campus of the University of Notre Dame, we bring you . . . ." 
Educofiono/— 

Sixteen series of weekly 15-minute broadcasts, educational in purpose, planned, prepared and produced by interested students. A series of weekly broadcasts by faculty members. The full scope of Notre Dame instruction pre­sented to the radio audience under the direc­tion of Father Eugene Burke, C.S.C. 

Ecc/esfosfico/— 

The most impressive ceremonies of the year broadcast in their entirety from the Church of the Sacred Heart. Special religious events of the University likewise broadcast. 

Sporfs— 

The only station which broadcasts every Notre 
': : : Dame Football Game regardless of where it is 
[• :.. : played. All sports are on the air . . . basket­
. . ball, baseball, track! ,, •••••••• 


wiBT-WFAM 
"The South Bend Tribune Stations" South Bend, Indiana 
THE COLUMBIA BROADCASTING SYSTEM 
i^%%3-^.. 


The Notre Dame, Alumnus 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, "25 
Editor 
•9£

WILUAM R . DOOLEY. 
•^" 
Managing Editor 

Vol. 15 
The magazine is published monthly < ._ _ . of the tfniversity of Notre Dame, Notre Dnme, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $3.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame. Ind. 
thi during the scboI^u(r year by the Aluznnt Association

13192G 
OaOBER. 1936 
Member of the American 
Alumni Council. 
Member of Nat*l. Cadiolic Alumni Federation 
No. 

Year Begins With Restricted Enrollment 
Many Students Forced to Live OfF-Campus Temporarily 
As Registration Reaches Highest Point in Several Years; 
Rectors and Prefects Named; Cavanaugh Hall Opened 
With an enrollment approximating 2,950, the largest since 1931-32, the University opened its 95th academic year on September 17, after registra­tion on the two previous days. 
Because residence accommodations on the campus had been exhausted enrollment was officially halted in mid-August so that a minimum group of new students would be required to reside off-campus. The present group of oif-carapus new students numbers some 100, but these are be­ing moved to the campus just as-fast as the necessary arrangements can be made. University officials planned to have no new students off-campus longer than a month with the excep­tion, of course, of those who regular­ly live near the University. 
The 1936-37 year was officially opened on Sunday, September 20, with solemn Mass, following an aca­demic procession. Father John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president, preached at this Mass (and at all the other student Masses on that Sunday). Fa­ther Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, vice-president, was celebrant of the Mass, Father J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C, director of studies, was deacon, and Father Charles Miltner, C.S.C, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, was subdeacon. Frather Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C, dean of the Col­lege of Science, was master of cere­monies. 
Of large interest, to returning stu­dents and new students alike, was the new Cavanaugh Hall for Freshmen erected next to Washington Hall, par­tially on the site of the old Brownson-CarroU gym. This hall was, of course, named for the late Father John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, former president of the University and, will on that account, have the particular affection of large numbers of alumni. Construction work on the hall was completed just in time to permit oc­cupation by the Freshmen assigned there. 
Rectors and Prefects Appointed 

Father Henry Bolger, C.S.C, has been named first rector of Cavanaugh Hall, with Father Stanislaus Lisew­ski, C.S.C, Father James Trahey and Father Maurice Eigley, C.S.C, as prefects. 
Other rectors and prefects have been appointed for the year as fol­lows: 
Sorin: Father John Farley, C.S.C, rector; Father Charles Doremus, C.S.C, and Father Edwin Schneider, S.S., prefects. 
Walsh:Father George Marr, C.S.C, rector; Father -Eaymond Murray, C.S.C, and Father Cornelius Hooy­boer, C.S.C, prefects. 
Alumni: Father Henry Glueckert, C.S.C, rector; Father James Stack, C.S.C, and Father Howard Kenna, CS.C, prefects. 
Dillon: Father Francis Cavanaugh, C.S.C., rector; Father Norbert Hoff, Father Robert Woodward, C.S.C, Fa­ther Edward Keller, C.S.C, Father William McNamara, C.S.C, and Pro­fessor Thomas Madden, prefects. 
Howard: Father Peter Forrestal, C.S.C., rector; Father J. T. Purtill, S.S.E., Father Joseph Corcoran, C.S.C.. Father Charles Over, and Professor John Whitman, prefects. 
Morrissey: Father George Holder­ith, C.S.C, rector; Father James Mc­Donald, C.S.C, Father Philip Moore, C.S.C, and Professor Francis O'Mal­ley, prefects. 
Lyons Hall: Father Thomas Kelley, C.S.C, rector; Eev. John Kelley, CS.C, Father John Reynolds, C.S.C, and Father John Reddington, C.S.C, prefects. 
Badin: Father Joseph Mucken­thaler, C.S.C, rector; Father Joseph Luttman, C.S.C, and Henry Hickey, prefects. 
St. Edward's: Father Leo Gorman, C.S.C, rector; Father James Kline, C.S.C, and Father Bernard McAvoy, C.S.C., prefects. 
Freshman: Father John P. O'Con­nell, C.S.C, rector; Father John Molter, C.S.C, prefect 
Carroll: Brother Maorilius, C.S.C, 
(Continued on Page 14) 

The new Cavanaugh Hall. Left to right: a south view, a corridor and a close-up on the north. 

Distinguished Scholars Join Faculty 
W.W. Turner,' 16, Teaching Architec­ture; Many Holy Cross Priests Return 
William W. Turner, '16, teacher of drawing in Central High School in South Bend for the past 15 years, has joined the staff of the Depart­ment of Architecture at Notre Dame as one of a group of 40 new men who have been added to the faculty of the University for the present school year. 
After finishing at Notre Dame in 1916, Mr. Turner did graduate work at the Catholic Universitj', Washing­ton, D.C, and at the University of Pennsylvania and later studied in Prance. He is the author of several texts on mechanical drawing and ar­chitectural drawing. 
Dr. Arthur Haas, formerly of the University of Vienna, Austria, inter­nationally known lecturer and author of standard texts in the field of theo­retical physics, is a new member of the staff of the Department of Phy­sics. During the past school year Doctor Haas was a guest professor at Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Me. 
Another noted addition to the fac­ulty is Arnold Lunn, the outstanding English author, lecturer and apolo­gist, who is one of the staff of the new graduate Department of Apolo­getics, just formed to train Catholic writers. 
Father Miltner Returns 

Father Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., has returned to his position as dean of the College of Arts and Letters after a year of study and research at the University of Louvain, Belgium. Also returning from Louvain is Fa­ther Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., as associ­ate professor of philosophy. Father Leo L. Ward, C.S.C, head of the de­partment of English, replaces Fa­ther Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C, who will devote his time to radio and writing. 
The faculty of the department of aeronautical engineering has been augmented by Professor John Allen MacLean, from the University of North Carolina. Additional courses in the department of metallurgy, in­cluding aeronautical courses, have necessitated an addition to this staff. Dr. Carl F. Floe, of the State College of Washington, formerly of Massa­chusetts Institute of Technology, is filling this post. Equipment and fa­cilities in metallurgj' have been ex­panded during the summer. 
Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell, former­ly of the University of Chicago, re­search worker at the University of Illinois and instructor at Pennsyl­vania State college, has joined the chemistry staff. Others added to the chemistry and chemical engineering staff as graduate assistants include six Notre Dame graduates: Arthur 
A. Baum, Edward A. Bried, Marcel­lus J. Geerts, Alfred J. Kolka, James 
F. McKenna and Frederick C. Weber; also Patrick A. McCusker, for the past six years professor of chemistry at St. Edward's university, Texas, Charles J. O'Boyle, of St Joseph's college, Philadelphia, Pa., and Hobert 
J. Thomas, of Lowell 'Textile insti­tute, Massachusetts. 
New Radio Course 
Courses in radio script written under the direction of Richard T. Sullivan, will be an innovation among Catholic universities. Mr. Sullivan, a Notre Dame graduate of 1931, who has done considerable literary and radio writing during the last five years, is a member of the English staff. 
Professor John P. Turley has re­turned from a year's study in Italy to resume teaching in the Depart­ment of Classics. Professor Willis 
D. Nutting, of the College of St. Te­resa, Winona, Minnesota, is assigned to the Department of History and Professor Daniel Pedtke, also from St. Teresa's, has joined the Depart­ment of Music. 

A chair of Polish language and classics is occupied at Notre Dame this year by Father Stanislaus F. Lisewski, C.S.C, recently returned from t\vo years' study at Jagiellonski university, Ki-akow, Poland. 
Six members of the Congregation of Holy Cross have been assigned as new instructors in religion. They are Rev. Joseph J. Corcoran, C.S.C, Rev. Thomas P. Jones, C.S.C, Rev. Edgar J. Misch, C.S.C, Rev. Joseph 
S. McGrath, C.S.C, Rev. John M. Dupuis, C.S.C, and Rev. Paul E. Fry­berger, C.S.C. 
Other appointments include Rev. George F. Brown, C.S.C, German; Rev. T. Francis Butler, C.S.C, his­tory; Rev. Edward L. Heston, C.S.C, and Rev. Bernard L. McAvoy, C.S.C, philosophy; Rev. J. Howard Kenna, C.S.C, mathematics; Rev. James E. Kline, C.S.C, astronomy; Rev. Jo­seph Luttman, C.S.C, and Rev. John 
A. Molter, C.S.C, biology. 
As graduate assistants, Arthur J. Gartland has joined the staff in eco­nomics; Victor G. Reiling, physics; Philip A. Walker, physical education. Professor Edmund A. Smith assumes an instructorship in marketing in the college of commerce. 
October, 1936 
Vogt in Charge of 


Research 
Succeeds late Father Julius N i e u w I a n d 
Professor Richard Rockhill Vogt, '15, member of the Notre Dame fac­ulty since 1916, has succeeded the late Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C, as director of organic research at the University. 

The work of Doctor Vogt will con­sist in coordinating research work in the department or organic chemistry, and in furthering the projects which he and Father Nieuwland had under way at the time of the latter's death in Washington on June 11. 
Professor Vogt was associated with Father Nieuwland in the study of the chemistry of acetylene, which re­sulted in the development of syn­thetic rubber. He was the co-author with Father Nieuwland of a mono­graph on acetylene which is now ready for publication by the Ameri­can Chemical society. 
In addition to his studies and lab­oratory work at Notre Dame, Doctor Vogt spent a year in research as a fellow of the E. L du Pont de Ne­mours corporation at Wilmington, Delaware, and is a consultant for that company. 
Research in the department of chemistry will continue along the same lines of investigation which have, since 1920, culminated in more than 100 published papers, and the principal practical result of which was the commercial development of modem synthetic rubber, "Duprene," for which Father Nieuwland received four medals and many other scien­tific recognitions. 
Doctor Vogt was born in South Bend, May 16, 1891. He received his degree as bachelor of science in chemistry in 1915, and his master's degree a year later. The degree of doctor of philosophy in chemistrj' was conferred on him in 1920, and during the Commencement exercises in June he was awarded the ?500 University prize for the most out­standing work of a faculty member during the year. 
LAY RETREAT 

Many alumni, several of them from distant points, came to the campus to attend the 18th annual Lay Re­treat conducted from August 6 to 9, inclusive, under the direction of Fa­ther Patrick Dolan, C.S.C, superior of the Mission Band. Father John Delaunay, C.S.C, and Father William 
A. Bolger, C.S.C, addressed the var­ious gatherings. Father Bolger dis­cussed some of the moral aspects of present-day economic problems. 


Association President Pays Visit to Pope 
Arthur J. Hughes, 'II , In Rome, Pledges Support of Alumni of Notre Dame to Constructive Church Program in War Against Subversive Forces. 
Arthur J. Hughes, Ph.B. '11, LL.B. '17, president of the Alumni Associa­tion, sailed for Italy on September 6, to lay before His Holiness, Pope Pius XI, a program of the Associa­tion for combatting those agencies undermining Church, state and home. 
President Hughes, before leaving for New York, received the approba­tion of His Eminence, George Car­dinal Mundelein, Archbishop of Chi­cago, in a private audience attended by the Reverend John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president of the University. 
In commenting on the mission. Father O'Hara said: 
"Mr. Hughes will pledge our alle­giance in the fight for conventional institutions of society without which no group can hope for existence as a social unit. I speak of the four neces­sities— the home, education, the rights of private property and the rights of the State. All Catholics can insure the continuance of those blessings, as we know them in the United States, by leading the kind of life for which the Holy Father pleads." 
President Hughes feels strongly that those who have enjoyed the ad­vantages of Catholic education, par­ticularly in our Catholic colleges, have an obligation of leadership in the fight of Catholic Action against those forces working throughout the world against fundamentals for which Catholicism is the champion. 
Alumni of Notre Dame, spread as they are through the United States, and the other countries of the world, form a natural network for the co­ordination of a pi'ogram of this na­ture. They are endowed by natural and acquired tendencies and knowl­edge to lead in this increasingly clear conflict betiveen constituted authority and anarchy, between Christianity and atheism. 
Recent weeks have provsd the vital interest of the Pope in this struggle. Rising from a sick bed, he has hurled the age-old yet ever modem pro­nouncements of the Church against these forces, particularly those em­bodied in communism. 
Those who have enjoyed the clear, practical presentation of the princi­ples of the Church at Notre Dame, particularly under the religious pro­gram as instituted by the present president of the University, Father O'Hara, recognize in their training 
PRESIDENT ARTHUR J. HUGHES 
Combats CoymiMnism. 

the finest type of endowment for this mission. 
It is with this thought that Father O'Hai-a and President Hughes con­ceived the present pilgrimage. 
The cause is dear to the Holy Father. It is vital to the continua­tion of all those things that we cher­ish as Americans, as well as Cath­olics. 
The movement solicits the spiritual suppoi-t of every alumnus, but it is equally a challenge to his intellectual powers. It is an opportunity for the exercise of his rights and duties as a citizen. 
No movement in modem alumni organization presents the scope and significance of this project which the Notre Dame Association, under Pres-
The five addresses Just deliv­ered by Father John F. O'Hara, 
C.S.C. for the Catholic Hour on NBC will be published in a single pamphlet and may be procured from the National Council of Catholic Men, Washington, D.C. Since the addresses were on the general subject, "The Catholic Church and Youth," the pam­phlet should be of wide interest to alumni, and, through them, to countless other persons. 

ident Hughes, and backed by the University, has launched. 
The practical program will hinge to some extent on the results of Pres­ident Hughes' visit with the Holy Father. Certainly a first step will be the determination of the subversive forces actually under the enemy ban­ners. These will vary from locality to locality and country to country. 
As a primary step, anticipating the 

return of the president, each Club 
is urged to select a committee of 
leading members to launch this sur­
vey of the Club area. As evidence 
of specific aggression of these anti­
social forces is collected, practical 
plans for their frustration can be 
developed under the leadership of the 
alumni. 
The eyes of the Catholic world are on this movement, the first of its kind to be undertaken officially by an alumni association. Naturally, many Catholic organizations are pur­suing through their several channels the same fight for the preservation of our principles. But few contain the uniformly excellent intellectual training and spiritual reinforcement that is the privilege of those who have a Catholic college background. 
By the same token, the obligation to utilize this advantage is greater, and the results should be proportion­ately significant. 
NEW CHARITY ORGANIZATION 

Professor Eugene J. Payton, '23, is president and Professor Rajrmond 
A. Hoyer, M.A., '24, of the Univer­sity faculty, is general secretary of the new Vincentian Service Bureau, a Catholic charity organization in South Bend. Luke Kelly, '35, for­merly of Albany, New York, is super­visor of the Bureau. Mr. Hoyer will retain his connection with the Uni­versity while devoting part of his time to the Bureau. 
On the board of directors of the new group are the following Notre Dame men: Paul Butler, William E. Voor, Joseph W. Nyikos, Dillon J. Patterson, Professor Eugene Payton, Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, and Bernard J. VoU. Professor Earl Langwell, of the University faculty, is likewise a director. Joseph F. Donahue was one of those most active in forming the Bureau. 
Directors of the Vincentian Bureau were guests of the University at a dinner organization meeting on Sep-, tember 14. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Mrs. William P. Breen Dies 
Wife of Beloved Alumnus Receives Tributes of Thousands Befriended; Estate Is Benefit To Notre Dame 
Mrs. Odelia Phillips Breen, Fort C.S.C, chair of public speaking, in Wayne, Indiana, wife of the late memory of one of the earlier mem­William P. Breen, '77, died on August bers of the Congregation of Holy 
12. Mrs. Breen was also the sister Cross, for many years prefect of of the late Frank Phillips, former discipline at the University. The re­student, and benefactor. maining funds were designated to establish chairs in the College of 
Mrs. Breen's life, as was that of Law. her husband, was filled ivith a record of charity and contribution to civic 
Similarly, at the death of Mrs. and cultural life. In her death, as in 
Breen's brother, Jlr. Phillips, a most his, this contribution was perpetuated 
generous bequest to the Congrega­by generous bequests. Her monu­
tion of Holy Cross at Notre Dame, ments are many — in the churches, 
estimated at some 5400,000, was an­schools, orphanages and homes, but 
nounced. These funds, too, were to especially in the hearts, of those she 
be held in trust until.the death of loved and whose causes she cham­
Mrs. Breen, who enjoyed the income pioned. 
from them for her extensive program 
of philanthropy. 
Notre Dame, as announced at the By the terms of Mr. Phillip's will, time of the death of William P. 
the bequest to Notre Dame is to be Breen, April 21, 1930, receives a most generous bequest, which was 

placed in the hands of the Board of left to the University, contingent on 
Lay Trustees of the institution and the death of Mrs. Breen. The be­
invested as the funds in their hands quest, amounting to an estimated are invested, and to be known as ?200,000, was to establish, with "The Thomas E. Walsh, Daniel E. ?50,000 of it, the Martin J. Regan, (Continued on Page 21) 
CHee^s of CHolre CDeune 
I. FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF AERONAUTICAI. ENGINEERING: 
1.
 One fan for the wind-tunnel (6 foot; 4 blade; adjustable pitch) $ 480 

2.
 One integrating machine (K. 8C E.) 350 

3.
 Five 72"x36" layout tables (materials only) 60 

4.
 One mercury barometer 50 

5.
 Two pitot-static tubes, calibrated 60 

6.
 Ten precision mercury thermometers (0-250° F.) 50 

7.
 One oxygen pressure regulator (3,000 lbs.; 50 lbs.) 20 

8.
 One acetylene pressure regulator (350 lbs.; 30 lbs.) 15 

9.
 One calculating machine (Marchand) 350 

10.
 One 150 h. p. electric dynamometer. 3,500 

11.
 One 150 h. p. water-brake dynamometer. 1,500 

12.
 Two stop-watches (1/100 minute) 50 

13.
 One stop-watch (3 second dial) 50 


n . FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS: 
1.
 A quartz ultra-violet spcctograph 4 400 

2.
 A rotating crystal X-ray spectograph .. 180 


FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF ARCHITECTURE: 
in. 

1. One thousand slides 400 

z;^^ i( (^T/C'CiA.A..^JC. 
October, 1936 



New Courses Are Offered 
R.T.Sunivan,'3l, Directs Script-Wrrting 
The introduction of courses in radio script-writing, new courses in aeronautical engineering and the en­largement of the Departments of Metallurgy and Physics are among the extensions this year in the pro­grams of study offered on the campus. 
Richard T. Sullivan, '31, will direct the new course in radio script-writing as a member of the faculty of the Department of English. An English "star" in his student days, Dick has done much radio writing since his graduation. His addition to the fac­ulty will materially aid the campus radio set-up which has been so ex­tensively developed in the past two years. 
The facilities for radio broadcast­ing were first made available for the University in December, 1934, ^vith the establishment by the South Bend Tribune of a campus studio in the John P. Cushing Hall of Engineering. The Tribune owns and operates both South Bend broadcasting stations, WSBT and WFAM. 
It was largely an experimental project at the outset, based upon the theory that students and radio lis­teners alike would share in the fruits of student participation in radio pro­grams. Success of the project and its great popularity among both the students and the listeners of the WSBT-WFAM territory have proved the theory to be sound. 
The major advantage undoubtedly lies in the encouragement and devel­opment of special talents among un­dergraduates. Opportunity to take part in actual broadcasts has proved effective in stimulating interest in public speaking, music, dramatic pro­duction and allied subjects. 
This was demonstrated in unique manner last May when a campus tal­ent contest \yas conducted among res­idence halls, each producing a 15­minute program which was broadcast. The Tribune awarded a plaque to St. Edward's hall, winner of the con­test. 
The campus studio also affords to a considerable number of interested students practical experience in radio work under conditions identical with major broadcasting studios. When WSBT-WFAM programs first orig­inated at the University they neces­sarily were handled by staff tech­nicians and announcers. Gradually 
(Continued on Page 14) 


Greater Notre Dame Program Progresses 
Infirmary, Cavanaugh Hall, Biology Building, Corby Addition, Landscaping, Road Construction, Add to and Beautify Campus for Incoming Undergraduates. 
Once upon a time, alumni returning to their alma mater, after years away, would peer about and exclaim, "Well, -well, the old place has changed some." 
Today, at Notre Dame, the sopho­mores, junior and seniors who left the campus in June, come back to the campus in September and the S.A.C. has to provide pamphlets with maps of the grounds. 
Cavanaugh Hall, the beautiful res­idential hall, housing 196 freshmen, located just East of Washington Hall, on the site of the old Carroll gymnasium, is ready for occnpany, with Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C, '24, rector. 
The Biology Building, situated on the Eastern part of the campus, near the old Minim track and football field, and near the new heating plant, is rapidly rising to imposing propor­tions. The cornerstone was laid June 6, during the 1936 Commencement activities, with an address by the Hon. Francis P. Garvan, head of the Chemical Foundation. The building was designed under the supervision of the members of the faculty of the biology department, and is expected to facilitate greatly many significant experiments now being conducted in the College of Science under the di­rection of Rev. Francis J, Wenninger, C.S.C, '11, Dean, and Prof. J. A. Reyniers, '30. 
Infirmary Opened 

The new Infirmary, on the site of the old heating plant, just North of St. Edward's Hall, was opened just before school was out last June, but adds to the beautiful and active atmosphere of the East campus. Changes in the road leading to the rear of the Main Building, now carry traffic to the East of the Infirmary. The grounds about the building, like those about all of the new buildings, have been landscaped. 
Work on Corby Hall, which is be­ing remodelled for residence facilities for the priests who are faculty mem­bers, and who, for the most part, have lived in the Main Building, is nearing completion. Work has been held up temporarily, as this is writ­the building should be ready for oc­cupancy this Fall. Remodelling in­cludes kitchen and dining room facil­ities and a recreation room. 
A concrete pavement is being laid e.xtending from Notre Dame Avenue, south of Alumni and Dillon residence halls, to the rear of the University Dining Halls, to facilitate truck and general traffic to the Dining Halls. 
Extensive repairs were made nec­essary during the Summer on the roof of Chemistry Hall. 
Sorin Hall was altered by a major program including re-decoration of the chapel, re-wiring of the entire hall, and painting and plastering work in the rooms. 
Many Sidewalks Laid 

A System of sidewalks has been laid, providing a walk from the en­trance of the campus to the rear of the Dining Halls, (also South of Alumni and Dillon,) with a walk through the court between the two halls joining the plaza system. 
The plaza, extending from the Western campus in front of Lyons, Morrissey and Howard, Eastward to Cartier Field, between the two rows of new buildings—the Postoffice and Commerce on the North side, the Din­ing Halls, Dillon, Alumni, Law and Engineering on the South side—has been developed during the Summer. In spite of the withering heat, it re­tained its Commencement foothold, and has become one of the impressive beauty spots of the University. 
Alumni have been interested in see­ing the sign THOMAS HICKEY, Inc., Contractor, marking both the Infirmary and the new Biology build­ing. Tom was at one time, when a boy, a printer in the Ave Maria, and later attended Notre Dame. He has been in the contracting business in South Bend for a number of years. One of the less conspicuous, but im­portant jobs he has handled at Notre Dame, in addition to the new set-up, is the modem St. Michael's Laundry Building, adjoining the Grotto and Convent. 

Construction Aids Worker* Cavanaugh Hall was handled by Sollitt and Sons, whose work on the majority of the new buildings in the Greater Notre Dame of the last ten years has become familiar to alumni. Another interesting alumni angle in the new picture is the designing of the Biology Building, the Infirmary and Cavanaugh Hall by the Boston architectural firm of Maginnis and Walsh. Mr. Maginnis received the Laetare Medal in 1924, Also active in the design and construction work, paying frequent visits to Notre Dame to supervise progress, is Wendell Phillips, B.Arch. '12. 
A great deal of the work on the building program has, through the efforts of the University and the agency of the general contractors, been handled by local sub-contractors. Local building trades and labor, espe­cially during these years of depres­sion, have found in the extensive building program of the University their greatest source of employment. 
ten, by a dispute among the union 
labor involved in the construction Construction Progresses on the New Biology Building near the old over a problem of jurisdiction, but Minim Playground. The Heating Plant Stack Is in the Background, 

Neeson New Lay Trustee by Special Ballot 
Tom Murphy Becomes '36 Class Secretary; Joe Waldron, '36 Director for Year; Lieut.Govemors Strengthen District Organization by Fine Personnel 
John H. Neeson, C.E. '03, citj' engineer of Philadelphia, former president of the Alumni Association, founder of Universal Notre Dame Night and one of the best known alumni, was elected by the recent special ballot to the Board of Lay Trustees of the University as a rep­resentative of the Alumni Associa­tion. 
The election of the new Trustee was also the occasion for the election by ballot of lieutenant-governors for the 22 districts of the association, and for the election of a Class Sec­retary and a representative on the Alumni Board by the Class-of 1936. 
Thomas Murphy, Newport, Rhode Island, president last year of the Stu­dent Activities Council, and a former class president, was elected class sec­retary, and will be responsible for the column of 1936 news in the ALUMNUS and other class contacts. 
Joseph Waldron, Trenton, New Jersey, brings to the Board of Direc­tors a valuable member succeeding the splendid 1935 Director, Thomas Proctor. Joe has not only the always valuable viewpoint of the immediate graduate, but through family and geography possesses an alumni back­ground which, like that of his im­mediate predecessor, will contribute much to the work of the Board. 
The election of John Neeson brings to the Lay Trustees a representative who possesses to a marked degree the confidence and friendship of the alumni he represents. His contacts with Notre Dame have been many and close. The graduation of a son, John H. Jr., with the Class of 1935, was one of the high spots of this continuing contact. Many times in the East Notre Dame has found in the new trustee an able and willing representative. 
As city engineer of the great City of Philadelphia, John Neeson has achieved a distinction that raised him to the highest position in his profes­sion. His work has been the object of national and international atten­tion in the sohing of the problems of metropolitan growth. 
As president of the Alumni Asso­ciation in 1923-4, he was the inspir­ing leader of the first Universal Notre Dame Night, an event of such histor­ical significance to the Association that John Neeson's name grows an­nually more familiar and beloved as the Night becomes a world feature of the Association's program and an 

Rub your eyes! This is the new 
occasion to which increasing thou­sands of Notre Dame men and their friends look forward. 
He joins a distinguished group of alumni on a Board which, in a com­paratively few years, has, by unselfish and untiring ser\ice, won a high place in the hearts and in the tradi­tions of Notre Dame. 
As happens so many times in elec­tions requiring two nominations for a single post, Notre Dame could not have lost, in this election of a lay trustee. Walter Duncan, '12, LaSalle, Illinois, banker, for many years treasurer of the Association, proved a popular as well as an able and thoroughly qualified nominee. Noth­ing is so completely convincing in proving the increased stability of the Association as this available material among the members for a position of the significance implied in election to the Lay Trustee. 
About the lieutenant - governors, space does not permit, in this issue, a detailed account. But in every in­stance, their election was merited by a background of active service to the Association and to Notre Dame: 
District 1—^A. Gordon Taylor, '18, LaPorte, Indiana; Dist. 2—John M. Montague, '23, Chicago, Illinois; Dist. 3—Otis S. Winchester, '29, Cleve­land, Ohio; Dist. 4—^Harold Watson, '25, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Dist. 5— Joseph J. Norton, '24, Detroit, Mich­igan; District 6—James D. Hayes, '17, Washington, D. C ; Dist. 7— Henry T. Frey, '30, New York City; Dist. 8—John G. Byrne, '23, Wil­liamsville. New York; Dist. 9—Walter 
J. Stapleton, '24, Fairfield, Conn.; Dist. 10—^Thomas A. Daffron, '30, Richmond, Virginia; Dist. 11—Joseph 
E. Fitzpartrick, '25, Miami, Florida. 
District 12—James A. McKee, '93, Versailles, Ky.; Dist. 13—^William H. Miller, '30, Vicksburg, Miss.; Dist. 14 —^M. E. Walter, '14, Houston, Te-xas; Dist. 15—Daniel F. Foley, '23, Ft. Leavenworth, Kansas; Dist. 16—J. Henry Fannan, '24, Rockford, 111.; Dist. 17—Leo F. Craig, '04, Sioux Falls, South Dakota; Dist. 18—Ray­mond M. Humphreys, '17, Denver, Colo.; Dist. 19—^Anton R. Heben­streit, '11, Albuquerque, N. Nexico; Dist. 20—Royal Bosshard, '17, San Francisco, Calif.; Dist. 21—^Natt Mc­Dougall, '00, Portland, Oregon; Dist. 22—C. C. Fitzgerald, '94, Havana, Cuba. 
Plaza, extending, through the 

southern end of the campus, bordered by many of the new build­ings. On the left of the picture, left to right, are the neiv Law Building, Alumni Hall, Dillon Hall and the Dining Hall. The pic­ture was taken from the Commerce Building. 

Fred Steers, *11, Writes of Olympics 
Secretary - Treas. Central Ass'n. of the A.A.U., Man­ager of the U. S. Women's Teams in Berlin Games, President N. D. Monogram Association, Gives Views. 
(Fred Steers, LL.B. '11, Chicago attorney, Notre Dame track star, di­rector of the Alumni Association, Governor of District II of the Asso­ciation, Chicago, has been active in the A.A.U. for many years. He ac­companied the Olympic team to Ber­lin this Slimmer as a member of the Olympic Committee and manager of the women's teams. Opinions ex­pressed in the following interesting article are of course personal, and not those of the ALUJINUS or the Abnnni Association. Ed.) 
Asked to vrrite something with "a personal slant" on the 1936 Olympics, I hesitate to do so after learning upon my return how thoroughly dishonest our American press was in handling the situation during our absence. I was and am amazed at the "freedom" exercised by the press generally in libeling the American Olympic Com­mittee, the team and everything as­sociated with the movement. Many viewpoints expressed in printed ar­ticles disclose that they were not only untruthful, but lacked the de­cency we like to believe is an attrib­ute of American life. 
Best Olympic Team 

Because it refused to be used as a political pawn and sacrifice the am­bition of athletes of the United States, the American Olympic Committee was confronted from the start with a campaign of opposition and abuse which knew no rules or restrictions. We don't subscribe to the rules in any country in which our team competes and if we had to find a country thor­oughly agreeable for each Olympiad, I fear we could not even compete in America. The team was assembled and financed in spite of such inter­ference. It was the best team not only athletically, but personally to represent the XJ. S. A. in any Olym­piad. 
The team left on the Steamship Manhattan on July 15 and eight days later arrived in Berlin, where it was given a friendly and rousing reception by hundreds of thousands of people lining the streets from the "Stadtbahnhof" to the City Hall and from the City Hall to the Village. Flags and decorations were in abun­dance. Unter den Linden was the best decorated area I have ever had the pleasure to witness. It was a gorgeous sea of color, but not gaudy. Each decoration seemed to have its place as a part of the whole. 
The Olympic Village could not be improved upon. The houses were sit­uated in an enclosure of 400 acres, which abounded in trees, flowers, paved walks and spacious la\vns. There were halls where entertain­ment was provided, a post office, a bank and stores to take care of the ordinary wants of the athletes. Each house was named after a German city and contained from eighteen to twen­ty rooms, each room designed to house two men. Everything w^as thoroughly modem and met the hearty approval of the American boys, which is tantamount to a seal of perfection. 
Chicago Steaks Provided 

The meals were served in a central dining hall with rooms assigned to each nation, where food prepared as nearly as possible to the cuisine of the respective nations was provided. The principal items of diet of the American team were imported from America. The Chicago steaks kept the boys feeling at home around the waist. The preparation and service was under the supervision of the North German Lloyd line. 
The stadia far excelled those pro­vided for any previous Olympiad in beauty as well as athletic feasibility. Each day the several events filled them to capacity. We don't know what crowds are in America and the Germans don't know how to handle them. Once one was inside a stadium, he could go where he pleased. It was sort of an honor system. 
Time meant nothing. In some loca­tions vehicular trafiic was allowed to px'oceed fifteen minutes in one direc­tion, then fifteen minutes in another. 
The games were well conducted. America took the lion's share of honors in those branches of sport commonly participated in by Ameri­cans. In my opinion the best indi­vidual athlete of the games was Jesse Owens; the greatest individual per­formance, the 1500 meters run and won by Lovelock of New Zealand and the most impressive showing by any country, the winning of all three places in the decathlon by Morris, Clark and Parker of the U. S. A. 
The first country to have the honor of having its flag hoisted on the Olympic victory staff was Germany through the eiforts of a blond miss named Tillie Fleischer, who won the "speer wurf" or javelin throw. She proudly gave the Nazi salute, while the band played and the crowd sang "Deutschland iiber alles" and "Die Fahne Hoch"—^two national anthems, one for old Germany and one for new Germany, we were told. 
Three Places in High Jump 

We had hoped the U. S. A. would have this honor, but the high jump competition was prolonged by jump offs. To even things, however, we took the first three places in this event and saw the stars and stripes occupy the three flagstaifs of honor for the first time. "The Star Spangled Banner" was played and across the field came the words of the anthem sung by some American visitors — faint in comparison with the mighty volume of the German voices, but appealing neverthless. 
The German people were very friendly and seemed pleased to help at all times. They seemed a much different people than when I visited Germany eight years ago. The facil­ities for and the encouragement of physical exercise have made them thinner, healthier and more alert. The women especially have changed, being much thinner and possessed of school girl complexions. "Make-up", is almost unknown in Germany. The government encourages physical ex­ercises of all kinds. The excellent showing of Germany in the games is attributed to that fact. 
The German people appeared to be well clothed, well fed and well housed. Public and private buildings were in a good state of repair. Business seemed to be good and the cities and villages clean. The apparent pros­perity was, of course, stimulated and somewhat false, in that the govern­ment was spending huge sums in pub­lic works. 
I could find no one who had person­ally seen any excesses alleged to have been committed in the earlier days of the present reich. Jews had been denied the right of franchise. How­ever, they were still doing business, but could not fly the Nazi flag over their establishments. At present peo­ple were attending to their afTairs without molestation, churches and synagogues were open and peace and contentment seemed to reign through­
out the land. 
BY JOHN J. LECHNER, "37 





CAMPUS NOTES 
THE CURTAIN RISES 
A record enrollment of 2,958 stu­dents, many additions to the faculty, a new residence hall, Cavanaugh, completed, work on the new Biology building progressing rapidly, Corby hall changed from a student residence hall to a faculty building for priests, the "Campus Beautiful" program moving into the byways since work on the central portions of the cam­pus have been finished—^all these phy­sical phenomena indicate that Notre Dame is under way for another scho­lastic year. The freshman class, largest in years, has overflowed cam­pus facilities with the result that some 100 of them are stationed olf­campus. This year's freshman class seems to be business minded since a proportionally larger group than ever before have registered for Commerce. 
• 
WE ARE SEVEN In one of the issues of last year we were privileged to announce that one of the local newspapers, the South Bend Tribune had published a page of the most "eligible" Leap Year bachelors in South Bend. In this group of "Most Eligible" Notre Dame garnered seven places. Prominent in company which included Paul Fenlon, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and Professor T. Bo^vyer Campbell of the Department of His­tory, Alden Davis of the College of Commerce, Bob McAuliffe, assistant prefect of discipline, George Sands, '10, Francis Jones, '29, and Norm Hartzer, '29, stood the name of Clar­ence "Pat" Manion, professor of Law and state and national servant of the people. But no longer can the val­iant little band look to Pat for moral support when the jasmine odor of ro­mance comes to their nostrils for bachelor Pat just "ain't no more." He went and married a beautiful gal from South Bend. Who'll be ne.xt? Keep your eye on this page. We can't be muzzled! 
• 
COURTSHIP CUSTOMS 
Notre Dame annually has a large quota of foreign students. With this year being no exception, let's have Alfonso Uribe, a sophomore in chemi­cal engineering from Manizales, Co­lombia, carry the ball for a few lines of type and explain differences in social activities as contrasted between here and in Colombia. Take it away, Alfonso. . . . 
"In this country if you have met a girl and wish a date with her you call her up, and if she likes you well enough she 'goes out' with you. In my country it is not so simple. If you have been introduced to the girl it is necessary to have a female rela­tive, usually a sister or a cousin, ex­tend the invitation. If accepted the female relative accompanies as a chaperon. If there is no opportunity to obtain an introduction to a young lady you wish to escort, the process is even more involved. When you see her on the street with her chaperon you follow at a respectable distance. After you have followed for a con­siderable length of time and if you are acceptable to the young lady she will give you a glance over her shoul­der. It is then -permissible to go in the evenings and stand before her home. When she opens her window and converses with you the battle is half won, since now you may call on her at her home." 
Alfonso estimates that the shadow­ing activities he mentioned will cover a period of a month on the average. And they call the Latins an impulsive people! 
O BRIEFS 
The Stack twins, Edwin and Ed­ward, students from South Bend, who were selected as national twin cham­pions in 1933, emerged from retire­ment to compete in the National Twin's convention at Fort Wayne, Indiana, but they didn't win again. . . . Lloyd Martz evened matters for Notre Dame by garnering the Mich­igan Junior open golf championship. .. . He played 82 holes of match play in even par which should be good news for the golf team since he is eligible for three years of competi­tion .. . St. Mary's also has a record enrollment this year (350 students). . . . One of the features of their an­nual Freshman week was a conducted tour of the Notre Dame campus . . . Among distinguished visitors during the Summer was the Most Eev. Rich­ard Downey, D.D., Ph.D., archbishop of Liverpool, England .. . He ex­pressed amazement at the expansion of Catholic educational facilities in this country . . . One of Poland's most distinguished surgeons. Dr. Francis Zytowski, of Posen, also toured the campus . . . Dr. Zytowski has been in this country since May, his purpose being to study U. S. hospitalization methods. . . . 
• 
MORE BRIEFS The Scholastic, campus news organ, made its first appearance of the year. .. . It is edited by Paul Foley, Grosse Pointe, Michigan, with Cy Stroker, of Waterbury, Connecticut, serving as managing editor . . , Scrip, 
the literary quarterly, vrill be piloted by Philip Welsh, Anderson, Indiana. . . . The task of compiling the history of the school year in the 1937 Dome will be handled by Tom Eadigan, Gary, Indiana . . . Tom Hutchinson, Arts and Letters, from Goshen, In­diana, spent a hectic summer with the department of agriculture battling the various insects which each Sum­mer plague the farmer of his locality. 
STILL MORE 
The green, white, and orange ilag of the Irish Free State flew ofiicially in Indiana for the first time when Desmond Fitzgerald, for many years minister of foreign aifairs and min­ister of defense in his country, who was a visiting professor in political science here this past Summer, visited Culver Military academy at Culver, Indiana . . . Mr. Fitzgerald was ac­companied by Bob Biordan, Univer­sity registrar and Jack Sheehan, '37. . . . Joe Pawlowski, a sophomore majoring in music from South Bend and glee club soloist, has the promise of a Hollywood audition by United Artist's film oflicials .. . On his way to spend a few weeks in Mexico City, Pawlowski stopped in Tucson, Ari­zona . . . Learning that a film com­pany was on loaction there, Joe wangled introductions to Jesse Lasky, film producer, and Nino Martini, Ida Lupino, and Leo Carrillo, screen players, and persuaded them to listen to his voice . . . They might have heard Joe through "Sylvia" through sheer politeness, but the kid must have something for he ran through "Somewhere a Voice is Calling" and a few bits from "Pagliacci" and still kept his audience . . . Lasky promised him a screen test should he ever care to take one .. . On the first day of school the increased enrollment caused Brother Philbert in the candy store to miscalculate the milk needs of the incoming baby boys . . . He ran out of milk at two o'clock in the afternoon . . . Joe Ruetz, star sopho­more guard on last year's football squad took the hard way to enjoy his vacation .. . In company with Louis Miller, a student seminarian at the Cniversity, Joe traversed 175 miles of the celebrated Salmon river coun­try in Idaho .. . The trip took 21 days on foot over mountains, through deserts and forests . . . The Salmon river district is noted as being one of the most inaccessible areas in the United States .. . In the opmion of Miss Florence King, new physical ed­ucation director at St. Mary's, be­lieves that every girl should learn to tap dance. 

BY JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. "32 
» » » 

Director of Athletic Publicity 


ATHLETICS 
Your Notre Dame team of 1936 will be characterized by less experi­ence than you usually find in a Notre Dame team, and just as much fight as you find even in the greatest Notre Dame teams. 
Coach Elmer Layden has more than 180 willing young men out there, each staunch in the opinion that he should be the regular at his position. And therein lies the chief hope for a successful season. 
Competition for positions all along the line is so keen that not a man on the tentative varsity which Lay­den has lined up for scrimmage pur­poses is relaxing for one moment. Layden has done a great job of re­storing morale in his two years on the campus, and it is doubtful whether a Notre Dame squad had more spirit than the present group. 
Captain Smith Resigns 

Captain Bill Smith characterized this spirit recently by his voluntary retirement from the captaincy just a few hours after learning that he would be unable to play because of illness. Honored with the captaincy although he had been unable to play last season, he said, "The team needs a captain down there on the field, not on the bench. My conscience wouldn't let me keep the job, knowing I couldn't play." 
Two hours later Johnny Lautar was elected to the post. Before his election he had told this department, "The fine thing about this team is that it hasn't any stars. Everyone is fighting for his job, and there's a great spirit." Less than two hours after his election, he rose to the oc­casion by capturing a fumble in the end zone for the varsity's winning touchdown in an intra-squad scrim­mage. 
The beauty of last year's team was that it didn't have stars. Bill Shake­speare, Wayne Millner, Andy Pilney, Mike Layden, Fred Carideo, Don El­ser, Marty Peters, Dick Pfefferle, and the others may have become stars be­fore the season was over. But they were not stars when it opened, and it was their great fighting spirit that made possible victories over Pitt, Ohio State, and Southern California and the tie with Army. 
When they were graduated along with enough other lettermen to bring the total to 19, a lot of household names passed out of the Notre Dame picture. 
Maybe some new ones will develop out of Layden's inexperienced 1936 squad, names that will mean some­thing to every fan as he listens to the Saturday broadcasts and reads his Sunday morning paper. The chances are, though, that Notre Dame will be known more as a great fighting team, one that will make mistakes a-plenty in early games, but fewer as it goes along—a team that will not be de­pressed by its mistakes and bad 
HEAD MAN LAYDEN 
What's the Answer? 

breaks, but will keep right on coming back for more. And that's about all you could ask for, isn't it? 
On paper, the Fighting Irish of 1936 stand to lose at least .five of their nine games — which doesn't mean that the other four will be easy. They'll have to fight for the rest. 
But eight of the nine schools on the schedule are admitting openly, in one of the football's most peculiar phenomena, that they will be strong­er than last year. The other, Wis­consin, is not too pessimistic, even though Harry Stuhldreher is trying to teach the Notre Dame system to a bunch of boys who never played it before, and despite the fact that the leftovers from a weak 1935 team have been decimated by ineligibility. Wisconsin expects to have some of that Four Horsemen spirit under Stuhldreher. 
Opposing Prospects 

Last year Northwestern defeated Notre Dame, and the Wildcats are much stronger this season, a real Big-Ten title threat. Last year Army tied the Irish. Ofiicial reports from West Point are to the effect that the Cadets will be as strong as last year, and will have more and better reserves. 
Pitt dropped a 9 to 6 game, its only 
defeat of 1935, to the Irish, and Jock 
Sutherland, with negligible gradua­
tion losses to worry about, says, "We 
ought to be better this year. We've 
had more experience." 
Ohio State gave Notre Dame's var­

sity all it could handle last year, and 
if it hadn't been for those gallant "shock troops and Mr. Andy Pilney, we hate to think of what the conse­quences could have ben. The Bock-eyes will have to do a little patching, and they may lose their early Octo­ber game to Pitt. But Columbus ex­perts say they'll be stronger than ever by Oct. 31. 
Southern California has ten regu­

lars back from the team that dropped 
a 20 to 13 game last year, almost 
overcoming a 14 to 13 lead in the 
closing minutes. But "it is not un­
likely that seven or eight Sophomores 
will break into the starting lineup," 
says U. S. C. press releases. 
As for the rest of the schedule. 

Judge Wally Steffen is again active 
at Carnegie Tech, with plenty of re­
turning power from last year, and 
the best Sophomore crop Tech has 
had for years. He's staying right at 
Tech until the Notre Dame game has 
passed into history, and the Tartans 
are openly predicting a victory. 
Schedule Means Battle 

Navy, which used three full teams and some spares against Notre Dame last year at Baltimore, lost only 13 lettermen from this group. They lost, 14 to 0, last year on Pilney's passing. They expect the greatest team in their history. 
Wisconsin has plenty of heft, a willing spirit, and a great coach, as you all know. Don't sell the Badgers too short. Knowing they are not go­ing to bum up the conference this year, they'll shoot the works at the Irish. 
Washington U. of St Lonis has never been on Notre Dame's sched­ule, and not too much can be figured on a basis of performances in past seasons. But last year they were strong enough to tie for the Missouri Valley conference title while losing only to such teams as Illinois, Du­quesne, and Southern Methodist Coach Jimmy Conzelman has nine two-year lettermen on his husky team, headed by Bob Hudgens, far and away the best halfback in the Valley league. 
So when we say the Irish stand to lose five, we mean they'll have to bat­tle for the rest We haven't a doubt in the world that theyll upset the dope in at least one game and pos­sibly two, for that's just Notre Dame 
tradition. Last year's team was one of the weakest "on paper" teams you The 1936 N. D. Football Squad ever saw, but that didn't count on 
the field. 

Name Allen, James Joseph Arhoit, Ennio Benjamin Armol, Thos. Nathaniel Battiiglia, Jos. Alphonsc Beinor, Jos. Ed%vard Binkowski. Benedict F. Bohen, Thos. Labrie  Pos. C. R.H. L.B. C. L.T. F.B. Q.B.  Home Town Mannington.W.V. Oglesby, HL Chicago, 111. Buffalo, N. Y. Harvey, III. Chicago, III. St. Paul. Minn.  Preparatory School Mannington H. S. St. Bede, Peru, HI. Von Steuben H.S. Canisius Prep Thornton Twnp. H.S. St. Bede, Peru. HI. Cretin H.S.  Age 19 19 19 21 19 19 20  Wat. 210 176 188 175 197 191 1G5  Ht. E.XJ>. 6:2 0 5:11 1 6:0 0 6:0 2 6:2 0 6:1 0 S:8 1  The opener ivith Tech is likely to prove more crucial than we can real­ize at this writing. If the Irish can make their mistakes, if the Sopho­mores can get the jitters, forget ev­erything they've been taught, and still outfight, outplay, and defeat  
Borowski,  Chas.  Casimer  L.H.  So.  Bend.  Ind.  Central H.  S.  21  170  5:11  1  
Bossu, August  Francis  L.G.  Monongahela,  Pa.  Monongahela H.  S.  20  185  3:10  0  
Bourkc. John  Taylor  Q.B.  Watcrvillc,  N.  Y.  Watcrvillc, H. S.  22  175  5:10%  0  
Brennan,  Ed.  Joseph  F.B.  Gary,  Ind.  Paw Paw, Mich. H. S.  20  180  5:11  0  
Brophy, James  Francis  R.H.  Peoria,  III.  Spalding  Institute  20  171  6:0  0  
Broscoc, Ed.  Michael  R.E.  Youngstoivn, O.  Dickinson  Seminao*  21  187  5:11  0  
BrouTi, Earl Melvin,  Jr.  UE.  Bent. Harb. Mich.  Benton  Harbor  H.S.  21  185  6:0  0  
Bruno, Wm. Ben  Q.B.  Asbury  Pk..  N.J.  Asburj- Park,  H.  S.  23  170  5:8  2  
Bumcll, Herman  Jos.  L.H.  Duluth.  Minn.  Duluth  Cathedral H.  S.  21  185  5:11  0  
Campbell. Geo. Bobt. Carroll, Francis Thos.  C. R.E.  Mt. Lebanon, Pa. Woonsocket. R,I.  Mt. Leb.inon H. S. LaSallc Academy, R.L  19 19  185 170  5:10 5:11  0 0  
Ca\'alier. John  Michael  L.T.  Middlcbranch,  0.  Middlcbranch  H.  S.  20  205  5:11  0  
Chock, Peter  Joseph  R.G.  Gairton,  Pa.  Qairton  H.  S.  20  190  5:10%  0  
QilTord, Jeremiah  Jos.  L.B.  Chicago, HI.  Mt.  Carmel  H.  S.  21  190  6:1%  1  
Coon, James John  R.E.  Buffalo, N.  Y.  Canisius  Prep  20  150  6:0  0  
*Cronin, Art Dennis,  Jr.  R.T.  Detroit,  Mich.  U. of  Detroit  H.  S.  22  210  6:0  2  
Crowe, Emmett Hoste Cusick, Martin Patrick •Danbom, Laurence Edwin  Q.B. L.T. F.B.  Lafayette, Ind. Jersey City, N.J. Calumet, Mich.  Jefferson H. S. St. Peter's Prep Calumet H. S.  19 20 21  170 195 192  5:8 6:0 6:0  0 I 2  'JOHNNY LAUTAR Netv 1936 Captain.  
Darcy, John Francis Dcane, John Joseph Derengoski, Robt. Andrew DiMatteo, Jos. Angeio Disser, Ed. Joseph Ely, Eugene James Emanuel, Dennis Georse Falsioni, Daniel Paul  L.IL Q.B. L.E. F.B. F.B. C. L.T. Q.B.  Boston, Mass. Milwaukee, Wis. Manistee, Mich. Pittsburgh, Pa. Fort Wayne, Ind. Auburn, Nebr. Iowa City, Iowa Akron, N. y .  Mission H. S. Roxbury Marquette U. H. S. Manistee H. S. Perrs­ H. S. Central Qitholic H.S. Auburn H. S. SU PatricJ: H. S. Akron H. S.  23 20 20 21 19 21 21 23  178 155 192 180 189 194 198 160  5:11 5:7% 6:3 5:9% 6:0 6:1% 6:2 5:7%  1 1 0 I 0 0 1 0  Tech, you can depend on a thrilling season. Maybe Layden won't be able to substitute as freely as he'd like in this game and the subsequent games ^vith Washington and Wiscon­sin. Maybe, because of injuries to regulars, less experienced men ivill  
Fanning, Ed. Joseph,  Jr.  L.G.  Oak Park, III.  Fenwick H.  S.  20  180  5:10%  0  have  to  start  cold  before  capacity  
Fipp, August Bernard, Jr. Fogel, John Nicholas Foster, Harvey Goodson  KG. G. L.G.  Dcliance, Ohio Chicago, m. So. Bend, Ind.  Defiance H. S. Mt. Carmel H. S. Highland Pk. Detroit  19 21 21  170 185 185  6:% 5:10 6:0  0 I 1  crowds against Pitt, Ohio State, Navy, Army, and possibly Northwest-em and Southei-n California.  
Fox, Harry Francis Frericks, Theodore Paul Fricke, Carl Henry Fromhart, Fred. James  R.G. Q.B. L.G. L.H.  Cleveland Hts. 0 . Marion. Ohio Altadcna, Calif. Moundsville, W.V.  Oeveland Hts. H. S. S t Mars's H. S. Pasadena. Calif. H. S. Neuburg H. S.  20 18 18 21  175 140 176 168  5:8 6:7 5:11 5:8%  I 0 0 0  The present varsitj' lineup contains eight Seniors and three Juniors. Several, however, just barely made  
GallaEher, Francis Jos. Gallaher, Hubcr Shcils Gallant, Adricn Joseph •Gleason, Joseph Thomas  L.E. K.H. UH . R.H.  Scranton. Pa. Easton, Pa. Rumford. Maine Chicago, 111.  St. John's H. S. Easton H. S. Marj-vale Seminary Leo High School  20 21 21 22  165 175 175 ISO  5:10 5:11 5:10 6:0  1 2 0 1  letters last year, only three of them have two letters each, and two others have no monograms at all.  
Godleski, Jos.  Thomas  L.E.  Gr. Rapids, Mich.  Catholic Central H. S.  19  168  6:2  0  Personnel  Prospects  
Gottsacker, Harold Al. Green, James Jeremiah Grogan, Ed Francis Hack. James Gorman Haggar, Edmond Ralph  Q.B. F.B. R.G. h.G. K.E.  Sheyboygan, Wis. Sioux City, Iowa Bellaire. L.L N.Y. Chicago, III. Dallas, Texas  Sheboygan H. S. 19 Trinity Prep 19 Chaminade, Mineola, L. I, . 20 Loyola & Culver Academy 23 St. Joseph's Academy 20  185 165 172 190 194  6:0 5:9 5:8% 5:10 6:2  0 0 0 2 1  Joe O'Neill, Senior left end, who will probably do the team's kicking, got a letter last year, but Wayne Millner led the team in minutes  
Hambley, Wm. Carter,  Jr.  F.B.  Pikeville, Ky.  Pikeville Col. Academy  22  188  6:1%  0  played — and  he  was  a  left  end.  
Harrington, Hubert, Jos. Q.B. Hayes, Frank Joseph K.B. Hcnsel, Walter Wilfred F.B. Hickey, Louis Joseph UE . Hofcr, Willard Qair Q.B. Hoppel, Leo Theodore K.H. Horan, Raymond Augustine R.T. Horan, Wm. Cornelius L.H. Hughes, James Joseph L.H.  Clare, Iowa Chicago, HI. Hasleton, Pa. So. Bend, Ind. Rock Island, HI. Evansi'illc, Ind. Bridgeport, Conn. Chicago. HI. Bemidji, Minn.  Corpus" Christi, Ft. Dodge ; 20 St. Mel's H. S. 19 St. Gabriel, Freeland 20 Central H. S. 22 Rock Island H, S. 20 Rcitz Memorial H. S. 21 Central High School 21 St. Ignatius Academy 19 Bemidji H. S. 18  165 165 175 178 180 183 180 175 165  6:0 5:9 6:0 6:1 5:11% 5:11% 6:0 5:11 6:11  0 0 0 2 0 1 0 0 0  O'Neill's understudy at present is Lenny Skoglund of Chicago. Bill Steinkemper, Chicago Senior left tackle, with two monograms, was ranked third last season and saw but little action. His competitors are Denny Emanuel, Junior, who played with the "B" team in 1935, and Joe  
Jandoli, Norman Francis R.E. Johantgen, Henry Francis L.T. Kell, Paul Ernest R.T. Kelly, Daniel Brady P. L.H. Kelly, Frank Robert, Jr. F.B. Kelly, John Edn-ard, Jr. C. Kelly, John Greg R..E. Kenneally, Philip Jos. R.H.  W. Orange, N.J. Rochester, N. Y. Niles, Mich. Forest Hills, L.I. Richmond, Va. Somerville, llfass. Chicago, HI. Chicago, HI.  W. Orange H. S. Aquinas Institute Niles H. S. Chaminade, Mineola Benedictine H. S. Somer\'iWe H. S. St. George H. S. SL Philip's H. S.  21 19 21 19 18 21 20 21  180 189 212 160 185 185 184 147  6:0 5:10% 6:2 6:11 6:1 5:11 6:0 5:8  0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0  Beinor, Sophomore. Captain Johnny Lautar will handle the left guard post. He is another two-year letterraan, and the only 1935 regular in the lineup. Under him is Jim (Pepper) Martin, varsity right guard last season.  
Kennedy, Leo Raymond Kennedy, Maurice James Kerin. Marcus Pierce Kerwin, Wm. Francis, Jr. King, Thomas Joseph Kling, Ernest Fred Kling, Werner Herbert  B.G. F.B. Q.B. L.T. B.T. R.H. L.H.  Geveland, Ohio. Ogden, Utah Denver, Colo. Green Bay, Wis. Elmira, N. Y. Youngstown, 0. Youngstown, 0.  Holy Name H. S. Ogden H. S. W. Denver H. S. St. Norbert, DePcre South Side H. S. South H. S. South H. S.  20 20 21 19 20 21 19  185 175 150 215 180 165 165  6:10% 5.-10 5:10 6:1% 6:11% 6:10 5:7  0 0 0 0 0 0 0  No monogram center is available. They line up now ^vith Fred Mundee, Senior and last year's third string man, with the varsity, followed by Pat McCarty, a Junior; John Pogel, a Junior; and Ed Longhi, a Sopho­ 
•Kopczak, Francis Gregory  R.T.  Chicago, HI.  Harrison Tech  22  205  6:0  2  more.  
Kovalcik, George John Kovzdove, Alex. Simeon *Kuharich, Jos. Lawrence Lahey, James Henry  L.H. F.B. B.G. R.H.  Donora, Pa, New York City So. Bend, Ind. So. Bend. Ind.  Donora H. S. Geo. Washington H.S. Riley H. S. Riley H. S.  21 22 19 20  190 185 188 181  6:0 6:1 5:11% 6:0  0 1 1 0  The switch of Martin to left guard, leaves Joe Kuharich in the number one spot at right guard. He is a Junior (monogram man) from South  

October, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 13 Bend. Under him is Elmer Zenner, 
Name Pos. Home Totixn Preparatory School Age WgU He. Exp. 
a Senior monogram winner. Lamm, Louis Joseph Q.B. Vici, Oklahoma Right tackle is taken care of by 
**Lautar, John Paul U.G. MoundsviUe, W.V. Lentsch, Martin Joseph R.G. So. Bend, Ind, 
Art Cronin and Frank Kopczak, both 
Levicki, John Joseph KT. Philadelphia, Pa. 
Seniors and monogram winners last 
Liley, Louis Charles L.E. Frederick, Colo. 
year. They saw lots of action. 
LonBhi, Edward John C. Torrington, Conn. 
Eight end is in the hands of Joe Lorch, Fred. Leonard R.H. Cornwall. N. Y. Zwers, Junior, who won a monogram Macaluso, Charles Jos. R.T. Oeveland Hts., 0 under Marty Peters last season. Macce, Jerome Barry F.B. Buffalo, N. Y. 
Slaher, Thomas Augustine L.T. New York City BackBeld Replacements Malesewski, Harry Wm. R.G. Mahwah, N. J. Maloy, Georffe Roland L.T. Qyde, N. Y. 
Quarterback is wide open, with no 
Marr, John Harold R.E. Waltham, Mass. 
monogi-am men available. And y 
Marshall. Walter Michael R.G. Philadelphia, Pa. 
Puplis, a Junior, has the inside track. 
*Martin, James Richard R.G. Concord, N. H. 
Bill Bruno and Chuck O'Reilly are on McArdle. Jaul John Q.B. Pittsburgh. Pa. his heels, the former a Senior, the McCarthy. Jack GrcKory L.H. Gicncoc, 111. latter a Junior. Joe Ruetz, star left McCarthy. Wm. Patrick R.T. Glen Cove, N. Y. guard of the shock troop cast, is try­McCarty, Pat, Francis C. Toledo. Ohio ing to leai-n to play the position, hav­McCormick, Nevin Francis R.H. Livcrmore, Calif. 
ing started September 10. McEriean. Paul Ambrose L.H. Chicaffo, 111. McGoIdrick, James Jos. L.G. Philadelphia. Pa. 
Bob Wilke, last year's third left 
McGovem. Geo. "WashinBton R.T. Lynbrook, N. Y. 
half back and a monogram Senior, is 
McGralh, Robt. Arthur F.B. Oak Park, HI. 
holding forth in this all-important po­Buffalo, N, Y. 
McKendO', John Charles L.H. sition. Under him are two inexper­McMnhon, John Edward L.H. Indianapolis, Ind. ienced Juniors, Jack McCarthy and Mcilahon. Joseph Patrick L.G. ChicaRo, III. Bill Horan. McNally, Joseph Clifford R.H. Woodside, N. Y. Mesin, Bernard Edward Q.B, Concord, Mass. 
Vic Wojcihovski, shock troop mon­
Meskill, David Thos. Jr. R.T. W.Roxbury, Mass. 
ogram right halfback last year and 
Metzser, Charles Jos. Jr. 0. Eockville Cr. N.Y. 
now a Senior, is understudied by Joe Rock Island. 111. 
"Miller, Stephen Christ. F.B. Gleason, Junior monogram man and Milner, Robert Leo F.B. Whitman. Mass. Bunny McCormick, a flashy little Moore, Jos. Stephen L.E. Bloomfield. N. J. Junior. Moritz, Chris. Deuward UE . Seymour, Ind. MorrissDn, Paul E<lward R.H. Jersey City, N. J. 
Larry Danbom and Steve Miller, 
Morrissey, Gerald Ed. L.G. Bennington, Vt. 
who alternated with the second and 
Mulcahcy, James Lane R.G. Taunton. Mass. C. 
third teams last year, under Fred Mundee, Fred "William Youngstown, 0. 
Carideo and Don Elser, are both mon-Murphy. Daniel Martin Q.B. Marion, Ohio Murphy, John Patrick R,E. So. Bend, Ind. Nardone, Joseph Robt. L.E. Tiltonsville, 0. Nickel, Russell Laurence L.H. Hamilton. Ohio 
NiRro, Jos. Albert F.B. Kansas City, Mo. 0*Hara, John Francis L.G. Pt. Huron, Mich. O'Leary, John Arthur Q.B. Oak Park, HI. O'LouBhlin, Wm. Anthony L.E. Toledo, Ohio O'Neil. Geo. Michael R.E. •Pelham Mr., N.Y. 
*0*NeiII, Jos. Iimatius. Jr. L.E. Phoenixville, Pa, O'Reilly, Chas. Wm. Q.B. St. Mary's, Ohio Pacetta, Albert Salvator R.H. Rockaway. N.Y. Petrillo, James Joseph R-T. ChlcaKo. HI. Piercecchi, Robt. John F.B. Laurium. Mich. Pittman, Frank Sanford R.T. Indianapolis, Ind. Plain, Geo. Frederick L.E. E. Orange, N.J. Psik, Paul Ralph L.G. Chicago, HI, Puhl, Richard Joseph R.H. Oak Park, HI. 
Pupils, Andrew Joseph Q.B. Chicago, HI. Race, Adrian Joseph R.G. Milwaukee. Wis. 
BiLL SMITH 
Tough Luck. 

Roach, Geo. Thomas L.H. Bridgeport. Conn. 
Roche, Thomas EuRene Q.B. Oeveland. Ohio Rodfrers, Charles Fay L.H. Detroit, Mich, 
ogram Seniors, and Layden is not 
worried about this spot. 
RoBCnski, Steven John C. Molinc, 111. 
More about the Sophomores later 
*Ruetz, Joseph Hubert Q.B. So. Bend, Ind. 
—if they produce. 
Ryan, Wm. Richard, Jr. L.G. Cleveland, Ohio 
Meanwhile J, Arthur Haley is Sadowski. Ed. Marion L.E. Wcstficid, Mass. wearing a worried smile. The Army Saita. William Paul R.H. Drumwright, Okl. game is sold out at this end, with Scally, Robert Lee R.E. NanBatuck, Conn. Army's half of the tickets to Yankee Schantz. George Fran. UH. Binghamton. N.Y. stadium going fast. By the time you SchillinB, Jos. Valont. 
R.T. Pleasantville. N.Y. Schloemer. Bertrand Aujr. UE. Cincinnati. Ohio 
read this, the Ohio State game will 
Schorsch, Robert Steph. R.H. Chicago, HI. 
probably be sold out. 
Schrader, Walter Lanjc. R.G. Weston, W. Va, 
The demand for Northwestern and 
Schuize, John Otto L.H. Iowa City, Iowa Carnegie Tech pasteboards is un­Schulz, John Wendell L,H. Gladwin, Mich. precedented for home games. The Shecdy, James Paul L.E. Snyder. N. Y. season ticket sale doubled last year's. SholloKB, Alec ReBiS R.T. New Castle, Pa. The enrollment is larger and that ^vill ShelloEB. Pred. Richard L.T. New Castle, Pa. pad the home crowds. Simonich, Ed. Francis F.B. Ironwood, Mich. 
SkoBlund, Leonard Howard L.E. Chicago, 111. 
Pitt, Navy and Southern Califor­
Smith, Paul Edward L.G. Batavia, N. Y. 
nia are writing enthusiastic letters to 
•Smith. Wm. Robert (Capt.) R.G. Hackctstown, N.J. 
Mr. Haley, so he's very happy, very 
Snell, Edward William L.H. Eric, Pa. 
weary, and very worried about where 
Snyder, James William 0. Livonia, N. Y. all those 50-yard line seats have dis­**Stoinkemper, Wm. Jacob R.T. ChicaBo, HI. appeared to already. Please don't Strnad, Joseph Cole R.H. South Bend. Ind. 
Richmond H. S. MoundsviUe H. S. Central H. S. S t John Baptist H. S. Frederick H. S. Torrington H. S. Cornwall on Hudson H. Cleveland Hts. H. S. Nichol's School Yorktown H. S. Ramsey H. S. Qyde H. S. Boston College H. S. Gratz H. S. Dean Acad., Franklin Central Catholic H. S. Loyola Acad., Chicago 
Glen Cove H. S. 
Central Catholic H. S. 
Livermore H. S. Campion Prep, Wis. 
W. Phila. Catholic H. S. Fishburne Milit., Va. Fenwick H. S. Cnnisius Prep Cathedral H. S. St. Philip H. S. St. Francis Xavier, N.Y. Bridgton Acad., Me. Roxbury Latin School South Side H. S. St. Joseph H. S. Whitman H. S. Bloomfield H. S. Shields H. S. Lincoln H. S. Blair Academy, N, J. Taunton H. S. South H. S. St. Mary's H. S. Central H. S. Warren Consolidate H.S. Hamilton Cath. H.S. Southwest H. S. St. Stephens H. S. Fenwick H. S. Central Catholic H. S. Pelham H. S. LaSalle H.S., Phila. Memorial H. S. 
Far Rockaway H. S. St. Thomas Acad., Minn. Sacred Heart H. S. Cathedral H. S. 
E. Orange H. S. Morgan Park Mil. Acad. St. Thomas Acad., Minn. Harrison Tech. H. S. Pio Nono H. S. Bridgeport Cent. H. S. West High School 
U. of Detroit H. S. Moline H. S. Central H. S. Shaw H. S., E, Cleveland Westfield H. S. Drumwright H. S. Nangatuck H. S. St. Paul's H. S. Dwight Prep Xavier H. S. St. Thomas, Minn. Weston H. S. St. Mary's H. S. Gladwin H. S. Araherat Centra] H. S. New Castle H. S. New Castle H. S. Luther L. Wright H. S. Senn H. S. Batavia H. S. St. Benedict's. Newark Academy H. S. Livonia H. S. DePaul Academy Harrison Tech., Chicago 
19 23 19 24 19 20 3. 21 
20 
20 
18 
20 
20 
20 
21 
21 
18 
20 
23 
20 
22 
19 
19 
22 
20 
19 
18 
21 
20 
22 
19 
19 
21 
20 
21 
23 
21 
19 
20 
23 
19 
21 
19 
18 
19 
20 
21 19 19 22 22 19 19 19 19 19 20 18 21 21 20 19 18 19 19 19 21 22 22 18 22 21 18 21 20 21 21 20 20 20 20 21 23 22 18 22 22 
175 187 190 205 185 195 175 208 160 190 195 205 17S 183 185 167 180 187 198 165 ISO 180 197 175 168 175 180 170 168 193 188 183 170 16S 195 180 180 190 190 160 180 170 167 156 170 150 
185 183 190 170 160 193 185 195 185 185 160 170 185 163 160 170 190 195 190 170 185 173 167 198 185 188 168 171 190 172 215 218 205 189 163 165 177 215 205 177 
5:914 
6:1 
5:9 
6:3 
3:11 
6:2 
5:11 
6:1 
5:11 
6:1 
5:9 
5:10« 
6:0 
3:11 
5:11 
5:11« 
6:0 
6:1 
6:254 
5:8 
5:11% 
5:liyj 
6:214 
6:2 
6:1 
5:11 
3:11% 
5:10 
5:10 
6:1 
6:1 
5:11% 
5:9 
3:8 
6:2% 
3:10 
5:9 
5:8% 
6:% 
5:11% 
5:11 
6:0 
5:10% 
5:8 
6:0 
5:8% 
6:0 
6:1% 
6:2 
5:8 
5:8 
6:1% 
6:1 
6:4 
6:1 3:5 5:8 5:8% 
5:10% 5:9 3:8% 5:8 6:1 5:11 6:0 5:11 5:10% 6:0 6:0 6:3 5:11 6:0 5:7% 5:10 6:% 5:11% 6:% 6:1% 
6:1% 6:1% 5:9% 
5:10 6:1 6:1% 
6:2 5:10 
0 
2 
0 
2 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
2 
0 
1 
2 
1 
I 
0 
0 
1 
1 
1 
0 
1 
1 
2 
0 
1 
2 
0 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
2 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 
1 
0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 1 1 2 1 0 2 1 

(Continued on Page 14) (Continued on Page 14) 
The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1936 


NEW COURSES OFFERED JOBS 
(Continued from Page 6) There is an indication of increasing employment opportunities. E-x-President Bernard J. Vol! pro­
undergraduates were trained as an­moted this activity of the Association, nouncers, monitors and directors. At and Arthur J. Hughes, present presi­present the students have complete dent, is anxious to preserve the prog­charge of all programs with faculty ress made. 
advisers and the WSBT-WFAM staff To this end, will all Notre Dame acting only in a supervisory capacity. 
men desiring employment or change 
If operation of the WSBT-WFAM of employment for professional ad­studio at Notre Dame has proved of vancement send in to the Alumni great educational value to undergrad­Office the following data: uates it likewise has been appraised Name, home address and telephone of considerable beneiit to the many number, degree from Notre Dame or thousands of persons within a 75-mile 
other educational qualifications, state­radius who have enjoyed the pro­ment briefly of experience to date, type of job desired, location pre­
grams. 
ferred, and any specific data that In a sense the project is serving might affect employment. 
as an extension school for countless listeners through educational features Several openings for registered which make up part of the program. Faculty members regularly, present 
druggists were reported in the Sum­papers on literature and the arts, mer just past. Those qualified and history, and scientific subjects. Some interested should write to the Alumni idea of the scope of the work may be Office. gleaned from the titles of 10 new programs which were begun last Feb­A large communication company 
ruary when the campus studio activ­is interested in having the records of ity was enlarged. The titles are "The several recent graduates with a view Readers' Spotlight," "Headline Per­to employing them in sales work. 
sonalities," "Music Appreciation," The Alumni Office will be glad to fur­"The Speech We Use," "Stories of the nish more detailed information to 
Classics," "You're the Defendant," those interested. Commerce and A.B. 
"The Athlete," "Stories of Great graduates preferred in this case. Lives," "Hoosier History," and "Sci­ence at Work." Recent graduates in the South 
Bend area are offered opportunities 
Before last February the studio in the business machine field. Infor­
programs were on the air in seven mation in the Alumni Office. 
weekly 15-minute periods. With the 
addition of these 10 features the time 

YEAR BEGINS 

now has been extended to" 17 weekly 
programs, representing an important (Continued from Page 3) 
portion of the total broadcast time 
rector; Brother Aloysius, C.S.C, and allotted to WSBT and WFAM. 
Brother Columbanus, C.S.C, prefects. 
Brownson: Brother Justin, C.S.C, 

The radio station is of interest to rector; Brother Severin, C.S.C, 
alumni especially because of the con­Brother Pius, C.S.C, and Brother 
tacts with the University made pos­Berchmans, C.S.C, prefects. 
sible for alumni living in the South Father James Trahey, C.S.C, has 
Bend Tribune territory. This is true been appointed as an additional as­
also of St. Mary's college alumni of sistant to Father Francis Boland, 
the territorj' since a weekly program C.S.C, prefect of discipline. Robert 
is presented from the campus studio McAuliffe is the other assistant. Fa­
each Sunday morning at 11 o'clock ther Boland is head of the Depart­
under auspices of St. Mary's college, ment of Politics, in addition to his 
with her students participating. 
duties in the office of discipline. 

THE 1935 FOOTBALL SQUAD 
(Continued from Pase 13) 
Home Toion Prcjmfatory School . Affe Wat. Ht. Exp.
Name Pos. 

Rochester, H. S. 21 215 6:3% 0 Stillh'an, Vaniel Fran. Q.B. Chtcaeo, HI. St. Iffnatius 21 17U 5:9 0 Sweeney, Chas. Alex. R.E. Bloominston, HI. Trinity H. S. 22 187 6:0 1 Theisen, Chas. John C. St. Joseph, Mich. St. Joseph's Catholic 20 225 6:4 0 Tonelli, Mario George F.B. (IlhicaKo, m. DePauI Academy 19 I'Jo 6:0 U Tuck. Frank Sweeney UH. Hayden, Arizona Ha.vdcn H. S. 18 170 5.-10 U Vcttcl. Louis William Q.B. Ashtabula, Ohio . Ashtabula H. S. 21 175 5:10 0 Waldnian. Francis Xavicr R.T. Bcadinsr, Pa-Readins Sr. H. S. IS 180 6:>4 0 Wehrle. Joseph James L.G. Punxsutawncy, P. Ss. Cosmas and Damian 20 170 5:9« 1 Stupkiewicz. Adam John R.T. Kochestcr, N. Y. 
•Wilke.
 Robert Edward L.H. Hamilton. Ohio Hamilton Catholic H.S. 21 165 6:0 2 Winsouer, Paul Vincent C. Peoria, III. Spaldlns Institute 21 192 6:% ,2 

•Wojcihovski,
 Victor Jos. K.H. Weston, W. Va. Weston H. S. 21 190 6:16 2 Youn;?, James Arista K.T. Houston, Texas St. Thomas CoIIese 18 197 6:1« 0 

•Zenner,
 Elmer John B.G. Racine, Wis. St. Catherine's H. S. 22 185 6:« 2 Zeno, John Lewis K.H. Afcrtin. Ohio St. Vincent's H. S. 22 183 5:10 U Zucndel, Jos. Charles I*G. Des Moines, la. Dowlins H. S. lU 182 5:11 0 

•Zwers,
 Jos. Bernard B.E. Gr. Rapids, Mich. Catholic Central H. S. 20 180 6:0 1 


TABB MONUMENT COMPLETED 

Work has been completed on a monument to the memory of the Rev. John Banister Tabb, soldier - priest poet of the Civil War, at his birth­place in Amelia county, Virginia. 
The project was under supervision of "The Forest" Memorial associa­tion, organized by members of the Notre Dame faculty, and construction of the mounment was directed by Professor Francis W. Kervick, head of the University's Department of Architecture. 
Land for the monument was do­nated by Ephraim Anderson, who now holds title to the one-time Tabb estate, and it is being landscaped by the Amelia County Garden society. 
The' esteem in which Father Tabb is still held, almost 30 years after his death, is proof of the high place he occupied in the world of poetrj'. The memorial association was formed in April of this year and the monument erected through the subscriptions of friends in all sections of the coun­try. Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the Depai-tment of Journalism and a former pupil of Father Tabb, is pres­ident of the association to perpetuate his memory. 
ATHLETICS 
(Continued from Page 13) 

ask him for any because he doesn't know where they are! 
Bill Cemey is driving his "B" team in preparation of a stiff four-game schedule. The opener, September 27, brought his boys into action against Ed Hunsinger's Niagara University varsity at Niagara Falls. The Irish won, 25 to 12, last year. The rest of the schedule consists of games vrith. "B" teams of the following schools: 
Oct. 17—IIIinoM at Champaign 
Nov. 7—Purdue at Notre Dame 
Nov. 14—Illinois at Notre Dame 

Q"*" * tiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaii •• 
MIDIIIIIIIIIIIItl 
a 

I Compliments 
I Louie I Bruggner, 

I "23 
I /URUOTGrNER'S 
NEUISQ^CORNEP 
I nflojun wni, Qe^vtMn I SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 

ALUMNI CLUBS . . . 
AKRON Williiun G. Burkhardt, '35. oO Mayficid Ave. Akron. President: Lawrence H. Halter, '31, 58 Hawthorne Ave.. Akron. Secretary. 
* 

ARIZONA James D. Barry. '97. Consolidated Bank Bids.. Tucson. President: Steven Rcbcil. '25, 620 N. Sixth Street. Tucson. Secretar>-. 
* 

ARKANSAS Burt L. Roberts. 132S Lincoln Ave., Little Rock, Ark., Secretary. 
* 

BENGAL Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C.. '02. Dacca. Bengal. India. President: Rev. J. J. Hennessey, C.S.C., '02, Dacca, Benpal. India. Secretary. 
* 

BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) Euscne O'Toole, '20. 321-325 State St.. St. Joseph, President: Frank A. Deitlc. '26. Napier Ave.. Benton Harbor. Secretary. 
Desmond Fitzgerald and- Shane 

Leslie, members of the Summer School faculty in the University, were the guests and chief speakers at the club dinner at Higman Park Villa on Lake Michigan on July 9. Both of them offered high tribute to Notre Dame and to Notre Dame's mission in education. 
Also present from the University faculty as special guests were Father Norbert Hoff and Professors William Roemer, Earl Langwell, Louis Buck­ley, Norbert Engels, Maurice Pettit, Robert Riordan, J. Mel O'Rourke and George Donovan. The last named two were special members of the Summer School staff. Other guests included Father J. Francis Murphy of Watervliet, Michigan, W. Worth Bean, Jr., Frank Hildebrand, Nicho­las Lahr, and Doctor McDermott, of the Twin Cities, and Mayor John Ames, of Niles. 
At the invitation of Father Murphy the club had a dinner-meeting for the election of officers in St. Joseph's Church, Watervliet on July 24. Gene O'Toole, St. Joseph, was elected pres­ident to succeed Professor Bill Dow­ney; Tommy Grimes, Niles, to suc­ceed Gene O'Toole as vice-president; Bill Desenberg, Buchanan, to succeed Allen Johnson, Niles, as treasurer; and Frank Deitle, Benton Harbor, to succeed Malcolm Hatfield, St. Joseph, as secretary. 
Guests at the gathering included Father Murphy, Father George P. Horkan, of Niles, Marshall Grath­wobl, Niles, and Harvey Holbrook and J. J. Miller, of Benton Harbor. 
Following the suggestions made at our last meeting in Watervliet," the Program Committee has worked out 
TAe 1936-37 Board 
Arthur J. Hughes, 'II . Chicago, III President Ray J. Eichenaub. '15. Columbus. Ohio First Vice-President Henry I. Dockweiler. '12. Los Angeles, Cal Second Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame Secretary-Treasurer William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame Assistant Secretary Fred L Steers, 'II , Chicago, III Director to 1937 James E. Deery. '10, Indianapolis, Ind Director to 1938 Don P. O'Keefe. '03. Detroit, Mich Director to 1939 Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark. N. J Director to 1940 Bernard J. Vol!. "17. South Bend. Ind Director to 1937 (ex-officio) Joseph Waldron. '36, Trenton, N.J Director to 1937 
TAe 1936-37 Disfricf Governors 
Alexis Coquillard, '03, South Bend, Ind  District  I  
Fred L. Steers, 'II , Chicago  District  2  
Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '17. Pittsburgh, Pa  District  3  
Eugene A. O'Brien, "28, Minneapolis, Minn  District  4  
Dr. John T. Burns, '13, Kalamazoo, Mich  District  5  
B. K. Wingerter, '26, East Orange. N. J  District  6  
Hugh A. O'Donnell. 94. New yor]c City  District  7  
John J. Huether. '22, Schenectady, N. V.. .  District  8  
Thomas Collins, '28, Fall River, Mass  .  District  9  
Anselm D. Miller, '25. Roanoke. Va  District  10  
Frank W . Thomas, '23, Tuscaloosa, Ala  District  11  
William Reisert, Jr.. '29. Louisville. Ky  District  12  
Cyprian Sporl. Jr.. '28. New Orleans. La  .District  13  
D. Patrick Buell. '24. Dallas. Texas  District  14  
Norbert Skelly. '25, Tulsa, Okia  District  15  
Clarence Ruddy, '27, Aurora, III  District  16  
Earl W . Brown, '93, Helena, Mont  District  17  
James P. Logan, '18, Denver, Colo  District  18  
Anton R. Hebenstreit, 'II . Albuquerque. New Mex  District  19  
W . Breen McDonald, '17, San Francisco, Calif.  District  20  
Samuel M. Dolan, '10, North Bend, Ore  District  21  
To  be  elected  District  22  

a tentative schedule of activities for Spring Dance. the club year. The details for the various meet­
Keeping in mind that the meetings ings will be worked out as the time should not be too frequent so as to approaches. become burdensome, and yet should Deitle and Desenberg, be often enough to keep up the in­Program Committee. terest of the club, the committee sub­* mits the following for consideration: BOSTON 
Jarlath (Jack) Slattery. '21. 226 L. St.. So. 
October 6 — stag dinner at Quin 

Bostnn. Mass.. President; James Skahan. Waters' farm between Niles and Bu­'31. 5 Grove St.. Belmont. Mass.. Secretary. chanan; November — Fall Dance at * Four Flags Hotel in Niles; December 
BUFFALO 
— Regular meeting, probably pre­John G. Byrne. "23, 149 Monroe Dr.. Wil­
ceded by a supper or a fish fry; Jan­liamsville, N. Y. President: Robert 31easer, 
'34. The Amherst Bee Co.. Main & Rock 

uary— Dinner Dance; February — Sts.. Williamsville. N. Y.. Secretary. Regular meeting; March, April, May Billed as "Positively the Last 
— Universal Notre Dame Night and Bargain of This Here Depression," 
(6 
the Farewell Stag Party, honoring the returning campus men, was planned by the Buffalo Club for Sep­tember 8 in Jimmy Doyle's. 
The club is arranging an excursion to the campus for the Ohio State game, leaving Friday morning, Octo­ber 30, arriring in South Bend Fri­day evening and, on the return trip, leaxing South Bend Sunday noon and reaching Buffalo at 10:50 Sun­day night. All the excursionists will thus have the benefit of a full week­end on the campus. And the rates are astonishingly low. 
* 
CALUMET DISTRICT and.-III.) John Rohrbach. '2S. Cron-n Point, Ind.. President: Fred J. SoImEn. Jr.. '28, 5732 Erie Ave.. Hammond. Ind- Secretary. 
* 
CAPITOL DISTRICT (New York) Ricliard S. Walsli. '31, 2191 PI.-iza. Schenec­tady, N. Y., President; John B. Land. 'Si. 4 Hedcewood Ave.. Schenectady. Secretary. 
* • 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dr. B. J. Hermes. '16. 1910 Oakland St.. 
Lansinff. President: J. Har\'cy Gauthier. *30. 
Baric Kivcr, Mich., Secretarj'. 
CHICAGO 
Edward W. Gould. '23. 1313 W. Bandalph 
St., President: P.atrick F. Crowley. '33. '42 
Junior Terrace, Secretary. 
One of the major projects of the Chicago group during the coming winter will be the presentation of a series of lectures under the auspices of the Club, featuring members of the regular and visiting facultj' of the University of Notre Dame. Fran­cis H. McKeever, '03, is chairman of the committee making an-angements for this series. Definite announce­ments wilL be furnished club mem­bers as soon as the schedule is com­pleted. 
* 
CENTRAL OHIO RajTnond J. Eichenlaub. '15," Hoster Realty Bldjr.. Columbus. President. The Central Ohio Club is planning a special train to the Ohio State game. 
CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA Leonard Burns. "25. 1635 20th Ave.. Altoona. Pa.. President: AVilliam McAIeer. '31. 1518 19th Ave, Altoona, Pa.. Secretary'. 
* 
CINCINNATI Harrj- V. Crumley, '03, 26.=>5 S. Harrison Ave.. Wcstwood Branch. President; Frank 
H. Sweeney, ex, *17. Kemper Lane Hotel, •Secretary. 
* 
CLEVELAND 
J. Patrick Canny. '28. 1660 Warren Road. Lakewo^. Ohio. President; I,awrence Krai. '31. 276 E. 272 St. Qeveland. Ohio. Sccre­taiT". 
Notices reaching the ALUJINUS in­dicate that the Clevelanders took enough time out from their big Ex­position to have at least two parties in the past Summer. One was the annual golf tournament on July 23 at the Sleepy Hollow Countrj' Club. This was in the nature of a farewell to Harry Miller of the Notre Dame Millers, who was mo%-ing to Wilming­

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ton, Delaware to be in the duPont headquarters. Dinner and the award­ing of prizes followed the full day of golf. 
The following took reservations for the golf partj^: Larry Krai, Bill Van Rooy, Don Miller, Pat Canny, Gay Haas and Joe Gavin. 
The second Cleveland party was held at Leisy's on August 19. There was also food for those that wanted it. This gathering was a farewell for Paul Castaer, vice-president of the club, who was returning to South Bend to work. Louie Stetler was the chairman in charge and Bill Butler, Jim Callaban, Jj2n Devitt, Didc Ma-honey and Bill Van Rooy were on the committee ivith Louie. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY Harrj- J. Deesan. ex. '31, 100 Francis Ave.. Hartford, Conn., President: John M. Cianci, '29. 500 Allen St., New Britain. Conn.. Secretarj'. 
* 
DALLAS. James P. Swift '21, 1202 Southwestern Life BId;r., Dallas. President; Francis A. McCul­loUEh, '30. 917 First National Bank Bide.. Dallas. Secretarj'. 
* 
DAYTON Eupenc Mayl, '24, 400 Irvine Ave., Presi­dent ; William Cronin, '29. 418 Crafton Ave., S2cretary. 
DENVER Robert Dick. '29. 16.75 Glencoe St. Presi­dent : Harry Lawrence. '29, 1951 Lawrence St., Secretary. The Notre Dame Club of Denver is bringing a Special train to the Ohio State game as a first step in a renaissance. 
* 
DETROIT John J. Norton. '24. 1025 Forest Ave.. President; Edward R. McMahon. ex. '30. 2291 LaJIotte Ave.. Secretarj-. 
Notre Dame alumni and the auto industry are both booming in Detroit, with odds on the Club for permanent 
progress. August 23, a Communion Sunday for alumni, undergraduates, and pro­spective students, was held in the beautiful St. Aloysius Church in downtown Detroit. Through the cour­tesy of Monsignor Doyle, Chancellor of the diocese and pastor of the church. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., '16, vice-president of the University, celebrated the Mass. 
A breakfast followed at the Fort Shelby Hotel, at which Father O'Don­nell and James E. Armstrong, alumni secretarj', were guests of the club. 
Featuring the meeting were plans for a series of lectures in Detroit throughout the coming winter, under the auspices of the club, presenting as lecturers regular and visiting mem­bers of the faculty of the University. Alfred C. Ryan, '20, former alumni secretary, was appointed chairman, of 

•this project. 
Edward Crowe, '16, was chairman of the Communion breakfast. More than 50 attended the event, which, considering the vacation period, was October. 1936 
a fine representation. A similar event for alumni only is planned for the coming months, when the under­graduates are on the campus. 
* 

DES MOINES Harry O'Boyle. '27. 2S01 Grand Ave.. Presi­dent; Richard Hyde. '35, 678 26th St. Secretao*. 
* 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA James D. Haj-es. '17. 4612 Morpan Drive, Chevy Chase. Md.. President; J. Thomas Garver, '32. 1210 Perry St. N. E.. Wash­inston, D. C, Secretary. 
* 

DUBUQUE 
C. I. Krajewski. '16. 321 Bank & Insurance Bids.. President: Henry I. Trenkle. '24. 180 
S. Booth St . Secretary. 
* 

EASTERN INDIANA Thomas A. Cannon. '33. 401 Wj'sor Bldg.. Muncie. Ind.. President; Ah'is E. Granffer, ex. '31. 617 S. JefTerson St. Hartford City. Ind., Secretarj*. 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA Leo R. Mclntjre. '28. Bethlehem. President; Ernest L. Wilhelm, *27. New Jersey Zinc Co., Research Dcpt., Palmerton. Secretarj-. 
* 
ERIE. PENNSYLVANIA Richard D. Daley. '17. Erie Dailj- Times, President; Thomas Barber, *24. 416 New­man St . Secretary. 
* 
FORT WAYNE, INDIANA Donnelly P. McDonald. '12. Peoples Trust & Savinprs Co.. President: Edward S. Sullivan. 
•21. 125 E. Suttenfleld St. Secretarj'. 
* 
FAIRFIELD COUNTY James Murphy, '22. 611 Securitj- BldfT.. Bridgeport. Conn.. President: Joseph E. Russo, '32. 166 Hough Ave., Bridgeport, Conn., Secretarj*. 
Sending in his dues on July 6 Frank McGee, of Bridgeport, re­ported as follows on the club's activ­ities: 'We are ha\'ing a stag party next week. It will be third this year. The first two were verj' successful. Jim Murphy gets all the boys out." 
* 
GRAND RAPIDS Georce E. Ludwiff. '25. 328 Glcnhavcn Ave.. 
N. W., President; Raj-mond .T. Bonini. '27. 607 Atwood. N.B., Secretary. 
* 
GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN Harold L. Londo. '24, City Engineers' office. City Hall. President: Levi A. Genicsso, '24, 510 Minahan BIdg., Secretary. 
* 
GOGEBIC RANGE (Michigan) Robert O'Callaghan. ex. '16. Gogebic Na­tional Bank. Ironw-ood, President; Francis 
J. Vukovich, '35. Ridge St. Ironwood. Mich., Secretary. 
* 
HAMILTON. OHIO 
M. O. Bums. '86. 338 S. Second St, Presi­dent ; Marc A. Fiehrer, '27, 701 Kentschler Bfdg., Secretary. 
* 
HARRISBURG Edward C. Smith. '01. 2623 N. Sjcond St. President; John J. McNeill. '33, Chevrolet Motor Co., Secretary. 
* 
HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.) Gerald J. Oeary. '21. 310 Lake Shore Dr.. Escanaba. Mich., President; Edward J. Dundon. '22. Iron Mountain. Mich.. Secre­tarj-. 
HOUSTON 
M. E. Walter. '14. 1702 Stuart Ave.. Hous­
ton. President; Thomas F. Green. Jr., '27, ' Conroc. Texas. Sjcrotary. 

Before all home games 

Pre-Game Smokers 
arranged by the Notre Dame Qub 
of the St. Joseph Valley 
JEFFERSON PLAZA (K. of C. Bids.) 320 West JefFerson Blvd.. South Bend 
Friday Nights —8 P. M. Notre Dame Coaches—Visiting Coaches—Newspaper Men—and many other notables will be present. 
ALL Notre Dame Men invited 
JACKSON, MICHIGAN Ix;stcr Wisda. "31, 1016 E. Ganson St.. Prositlcnt: Lyman Hill. '29, 224 S. Mechanic St., Secretary. 
* 

JOLIET, ILLINOIS Robert BaskervUle. *31. 104 YounKS Ave.. President: Clarence Wilhclmi. '18, 909 Oneida St., Sicrctary. 
* 

INDIANAPOLIS Charles E. M.ison, '26. Indiana Bell Tclc­nhone Co., President: Frank P. McCarthy, 
•28. 819 N. Gray St., Secretarj-. 

The Indianapolis Club, with Chief Steerer Charlie Mason at the helm, has its annual golf party on August 
11. Reports brought in since then by trustworthy scouts indicate that the event was a large success — as usual. One of the chief prizes—or maybe the chief prize—^was a dues-paid card in the Alumni Association for 1936-37, presented by Leroy Keach. (Look closely, ladies and gen­tlemen, and watch the Editors show anger.) 
Prexy Mason reported on a recent visit to the campus that the club was planning a dance for a Friday night in October in the Columbia Club. Seems as how the date was to be October 9, but be sure to check on that. 
* 

KANSAS Albert J. Gebcrt. '30. U. of Wichita, Wich­ita. Kansas, President: Dan Wclcbons. '30, G23 Elm St.. Ottawa, Kans,as, Secretary. 
* 

KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) Robert Tyler. '29. 3616 Paseo Blvd., Kansas City, Mo.. President: Charles E. Meyer, '29, 420 E. Armour Blvd.. Kansas City. Mo.. Secretary. 
* 

KENTUCKY Raymond Pfeifter. '32. 3032 LocinKton Rd.. Louisville. President: John B. Ratterman. Jr.. c.t. '32. 2114 W. Market St.. Louisville. Secretary. August 12, 1936. Sixty-one members attended a spe­cial meeting July 20 in the Brown Hotel. Everyone, in an enthusiastic mood, showed an interest and were happy that the club is being revived. We voted to change the name of the Club to the "Notre Dame Club of Greater Louisville." For the future we plan an excur­sion to the Ohio State-ND game; stag party in the Fall; Christmas dance; and a February Ball. After adjournment refreshments were served. John B. Ratterman, Jr. 
The newly christened "Notre Dame Club of Greater Louisville" has made its debut and the parents are very proud. Most important of all it is doing better than nicely, as many a wet nurse would say. Since its birth, July 20, 1936, after Ray Pfeiffer, '32, was picked to be the father, progress has been the by-word. Although Eay has only one kid to look after he is busier than Papa Dionne himself. 
In sti-ict sei-iousness, Jim, you can tell the other clubs to "watch Louis­ville." Enthusiasm breeds more en­thusiasm, they say, so if this is true there's no telling where we will stop. 
Two large meetings have already been held in the Brown Hotel Derby Room where the attendance each time was in excess of 60. 
Unlike many other clubs we never have any trouble about the "dues" question. This, you see, is because we don't have any dues. Until the club makes a revenue from some of its future activities a generous friend has provided a working capital. We have never had to use it. 
The real big item of the moment is the Football Special to the Ohio State game. Inquiries for the tickets are heavy and we expect to be soon sold out. Arrangements with the railroad company are completed. We leave Louisville Friday night, October 30, for South Bend, and return Sun­day following at 1:00 p.m. While in South Bend we have the privilege of using the Pullmans instead of going to a hotel. 
During the Fall season w^e plan to promote a stag party and a Christ­mase dance. Later in February when 
N.D. plays Kentucky State in basket­ball in LouisWUe there will be a huge Ball for the public after the game. 
Consideration is also being given to the possibilities of a concert in Louisville by the Notre Dame Glee Club when they tour this part of the south. 
Rather than make this an endless message I'm . . . Knock! Knock! Who's there? . . . At\vell . . . Atwell be all today—^so I'm sending this off today together with my check for Alumni dues. 
John B. Ratterman, Jr. 

and urged to attend. 
LAPORTE, INDIANA 
Clarence Bunce. *2-i.' 613 Ridce St., Presi­dent : Stephen Shapley, '30, Goodyear Tire Co., Secretary. 
* 

LOS ANGELES Eugene M. Kennedy, *22. Bank of America. 7th & Spring St., President: Douglas Daley, '30, 781 Ceres Ave.. Secretary. You may have received the in­formation which I am about to ^ve you from Doug Daley, bat since he hasn't mentioned it to me and I haven't talked to him for several months and since Fall is upon us and I am leaving Saturday for a two weeks vacation, I thought I had bet­ter write you myself — something I should have done five or six months ago. 
At Universal Notre Dame night last Spring the following named fel­lows were elected as officers of our local club for the current fiscal year: 
President — Eugene M. Kennedy, '22; Vice-President — Judge Thomas 
J. McKeon, '90; Secretary — Douglas Daley, '30; Treasurer—Edward Cun­ningham, '28. 
I am sorry to say that the club has been inactive since Universal Notre Dame Night. 
The following are the only news item that occur to me at the moment: 
A son was bom on June 3 to my brother Larry and his wife—^named Terence Patrick. 
A daughter was bom a week or so ago to Judge A. A. Scott and his wife. 
Father Gene Burke and Father Hope from the University stopped here between trains on September 9 but I missed seeing them, for which I am very sorry; it being a bank hol­iday, Leo Ward tried to get me at home but I did not arrive home until too late. 
Franklyn E. Miller, of the law class of 1922, is now associated with me in the Trust Department of our bank. In this connection it might also be of interest to some of the older boys to know that Steve Gavin, son of Stephen A. Gavin, an old student of the class of '06, who was elected to the Alumni Association in 1925, is employed in the Trust Department of our bank, which, in case you don't 
know — is Bank of America, the fourth largest bank in the United States, (not an adv.) 
I am planning on going North on my vacation and may stop oif to see some of the old gang, such as Buck Shaw at Santa Clara, Gene Murphy of Portland, E. Morris Starrett at Port Townsend, Washington, Jimmy Phelan at the University of Wash­ington at Seattle, and Eddie Coch­rane, at Seattle. Time may not per­mit looking up all of these boys but I shall report to you on my return. I am driving to San Francisco, will put my car aboard and sail from there to Vancouver and after driving around the Northwest, will drive home along the coast. 
Gene Kennedy. 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
p. E. Burke. 'SS, 507 Camn SU New Or­leans, La., President: Cyprian A. Sporl, Jr., 
•28, •Whitney-Central BIdB.. New Orleans, La., Secretary. 
MANILA 
Eduardo Boxas, *33, 719 ExclianKe, Manila, President: Leopoldo Brias. Manila, Secre­tary. 
* MEMPHIS 
Sturla Canale. '35, 620 S, Bdvidere, Presi­dent: lavin McNicholas, '35, 591 N. Treze­\*ant St., Secretary. 
* 
MIAMI, FLORIDA 
Vincent C. Giblin. '18. 4103 Collins Ave, Miami Beach, President: Daniel J. Lino. ex. '34, 1617 N. W. Ninth Ave., Jliami, Secre­tary. 
MILWAUKEE 
Joseph Griffin. '28, 210 E. Michiean St., President: Jean LaBouIe, '29, 624 E. Mason St., Secretary. 
* 
MONTANA 
William B. Jones, '23, 411 Power BIdff.. Helena. President: Rev. John Rccan, '24, Bishop's House, Great Falls, Secretary. 
NEW JERSEY 
Raymond A. Gciirer. '32, 446 Eastern Park­way, Irvinpton. N. J.. President: Daniel O'Neill. '2S, 184 N. Walnut St, E. Orange, N, J „ Secretary. 
July 31, 1936 
I have promised you for sometime a letter covering the planned activ­ities for the Notre Dame Club for the coming year. 
We expect to have a club news­paper this year to come out four times. In succeeding years we ex­pect to make it a monthly affair. I will send you a copy when it first comes out, at the end of thsi month or the first of September. 
The meetings are going to be snappy affairs and we intend to have a speaker or an added attraction at each meeting. We are going to have door prizes consisting of a ticket to a dance or some other function at each meeting. 
We are going to write a letter to each parish in our diocese and offer to have speakers come from the Notre Dame Alumni Association to speak before any of their parish or­ganizations on the subject of Notre Dame religious life and any kindred topic. We hope, in this way to ex­tend the Notre Dame name before an even laiger number of people than before. We intend to speak at high schools if the occasion presents itself. 
To our already large number of activities we are going to add a Com­munion Breakfast, similar to that held by the Metropolitan Club on, or near, the anniversary of Eockne's death. 
We expect to make enough money to pay off our box seat final payment and establish firmly a real scholarship fund. 
The freshman welcome which we are to have at our first affair will, we think, be one of the best ever held. as the committee is working hard and our plans are moving forward very rapidly. 
We intend writing special welcome letters to the new alumni just enter­ing our organization so that they will feel at home when they come out to our first and succeding meets. 
We are going to revise our mailing list considerably to make each Notre Dame man in our territory a real Notre Dame alumnus and a member of the New Jersey Club. 
We intend employing the aid of a publicity director so that none of our activities go unheralded. 
Here's hoping that the above plans sound good to you and thanking you for whatever help you will give us the coming year, I am, 
Ray Geiger. 
The official publication of the New Jersey Club made its first appear­ance in early September, as Ray in­dicated in his letter. A five-page mimeographed organ, the paper is a corking good job which is bound to aid immensely in the further build­ing-up of an already top-notch club. The featured stories on Page 1 con­cern the combined retreat of the Jer­sey boys and the New York club at Morristown, New Jersey on Septem­ber 11-14 and the Freshman Wel­come Party at the Essex House, New­ark, on September 9. Sal Bontempo Newark, and Dan O'Neill, East Or­ange, were in charge of the Retreat arrangements, and Tommy Farrell and John McGrath were in charge of the Freshman party as co-chairman, together with Francis Joseph, Charles Krancke, James Fagan, James Don­nelly, John Driscoll, James Costello and Julius Rocca of the alumni, and Francis Reilly, Joseph Moore, Joseph Quinn and Bill Sharpe of the present New Jersey students. 
Officially, this is supposed to be a secretary's version, on current events in the New Jersey Club. 
More power to Ray Geiger — he makes life easy for a secretary who wants to take life easy. All I really need to do is give the attendance figures for September. So long as you agree here are those figures with the least numbers of side comments: FRESHMAN WELCOME PARTY 
Speakers: Father Boland, Joe Byrne, Bob Phelan, Tom Farrell, Ray Geiger, and Joe Quinn (Campus Club Pres.) 
Attendance: 30 Freshmen, 120 stu­dents, alumni, and fathers of Fresh­men. 
Comment: Largest and most suc­cessful F W P. 
TENTH ANNUAL RETREAT Attendance: 56. 
Comment: Largest Retreat thanks mainly to the New York Club under the leadership of Bill Daunt and Hugh O'Donnell, co-promoters. 
This secretary's report is com­pleted. My next letter to you will contain news on Dan O'Neil. Tray-nor, Larry Keefe, and I are scheduled to go to New London for a visit next week-end. 
Dan O'Neill. 
NEW YORK CITY 
J. Norbcrt Gelson. Jr., '26, 1201 Troy Ave., Brooklyn, Prtsidont: Warren S. Fogel, '30, 70 Wall St . Secretary. 
The New York club announced in July the selection of Vincent A. Doyle, 1059 East Second Street, BrooHsm, as the 1936 winner of its four-year scholarship. A graduate of Brooklyn Prep, Vince expected to enter the University in September. 
W. C Goodwine, 516 West 162nd Street, a graduate of St. Agnes' High School, Manhattan, was the scholar­ship committee's second selection. 
The selection committee was com­posed of George MacDonald, Edward 
V. Killeen, George N. Sfauster, Hugh O'Donnell and Charles A. Gorman. Acting very ably as the scholarship committee of the club for the past two years have been Ed Tighe, Jim Dwyer, Dan O'Neil and John Balfe. 
Charles Hennessy, Rockville Cen­tre, who received the club scholarship in-1935, completed his first year at the University with an average of 94 per cent. 
Joining again with the New Jersey groups the New York club had its annual retreat from September 11 to September 14 in the Loyola House of Retreats, Morristown, New Jer­sey, under the spiritual direction of Father Herman I. Storck, S.J. On the Retreat Committee for the New York Club were William A. Daunt. chairman; Hugh O'Donnell, Andrew 
A. Shiebler, Henry R. Frey, Ed Tighe 

October, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
and Doe Gelson. Once again this most laudable activity drew numerous at­tendants from both states, according to all available reports. 
As you may expect, the club is getting back into active work after the usual summer vacation period. September activities began with a 'luncheon to Arthur Hughes, national alumni president, given by our local president, Doc Gelson, just before Mr. Hughes sailed for Italy and his audience with the Pope concerning the Alumni Association's fight on Communism. Plans were outlined at that time concerning the steps to be 
taken in this modem day crusade. 
Upon Mr. Hughes' return in Octo­ber, the club will hold a dinner meet­ing on October 8, with him as the principal speaker. A large attendance is naturally expected since we are to be honored by the visit of the alumni president. 
The annual Retreat given by the club in conjunction with the New Jersey club, was held in Morristown, New Jersey, over the week-end of September 11 and turned out to be a spiritual and numerical success. Co-chairmen Bill Daunt and Hugh O'Donnell led some 31 members of the club down to Father Storck's place and proved themselves able shepherds, for a number in an all-time high for New York attendance at a Retreat. 
As usual, the club will run its 
special train to the Navy game at 
Baltimore on November 7 and hold 
its annual Army game dinner dance 
following the game on November 14, 
the the Hotel Pennsylvania. More 
details on these events will follow 
later. 
Warren S. Fogel. 

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Bernard J. Abrott. '27. Latham Sq. Bids.. Oakland, Calif.. President; Elmer Wynne, '28. c-o E. S. Townsend Co., 15th Fl.. Russ Bids., San Francisco. Secretary. 
Revs. Eugene P. Burke, CS.C. and Arthur B. Hope, CS.C, were guests of the Notre Dame Club of Northern California at a meeting in San Fran­cisco on Monday, August 10. 
Twenty members assembled, with the usual vacation and business cas­ualties of a summer session. The personalities and talents of the visit­ing priests provided an excellent eve­ning of Notre Dame atmosphere. 
NASHVILLE 
Robert P. Williams. Jr.. '29, 106 Gallatin Road. Secretary. 
OKLAHOMA 
Joseph A. Moran. '32. 1611 S. Carson, Tulsa. President; Marion J. Blake, '33, National Bank of Tulsa Bid?., Tulsa. Secretary. 
OREGON 
Samuel M. Dolan. '10, 4726 N. E. Alameda Drive, Portland. President: J. Ron Sullivan, '30. 611 Board o{ Trade Bldg.. Portland. Secretary. 
PARIS 
Louis P. Harl, '16. Paris Office. New York Herald-Tribune, Paris, France, President. 
* 

PEORIA 
Bradley Proscott. ex. *3I, President; AI 
Gury, Jr., *2S. 612 Albany Ave.. Secretary. 
The picnicking Peorians had their second successful outing of the Sum-_ mer on Sunday, August 30, on the farm of the generous and enthusiastic Dr. C. V. Ward, a loyal Notre Dame rooter. The Managing Editor, being in nearby Kewanee, Illinois for the week-end, was able to join with about 75 club members and guests in enjoy­ing the afternoon—and the food and "stuff" that went with it. A ball game of uncertain proportions and uncer­tain score finished the day— and the Managing Editor. ("We wnz robbed!") 
In charge of the picnic were Bob Rainey, as chairman, and Joe Lang-ton, Bob Ward, Bill MoUett and Vince Rickey. The officers of the club joined with them in welcoming the guests. 
* 

PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
E. J. Hilkert. '22. 402 "nilc & Trust Bids.. Phoenix, President. August 12, 1936 This will be my last official duty as secretary of the Notre Dame Club of Phoenix. We as individuals and as a club have been actively engaged in securing new students to he en­tered at Notre Dame, and we are happy to announce that at least three 
boys from Phoenix will enter Notre Dame this Fall. 
I would also like to announce to our alumni that E. J. Hilkert, '22, our president, has just recently been appointed to the State Board of Ac­countancy, an appointment that lasts for the next five years, by the Gov­ernor of Arizona. 
Sam B. Locken is now connected with Rex Graynor and Company. Representing various lines of electri­cal appliances, and air conditioning units. 
We have recently received a letter from Thomas Julian Malay, '26. Tom is now located at Madera, California, P. 0. Box 276. 
I was indeed surprised to learn that I was elected district governor of the 19th District, particularly when I shall not be near the district. Can I ask that some other worthy person in the district be appointed to fill the vacancy. I will be temporar­ily located at 1380 Van Buren Street, Gary, Indiana. 
Julius J. Danch. 

PHILADELPHIA Walter Ridley, '31, 6824 N . 18tli St . President; A. J. Waekennan, '35, 5356 Chew Street, Secretmiy. 
RHODE ISLAND A SOUTH. MASS. Leo R. HcAIoon. '30, 260 Pawtacket Ave.. Pawtucket. R. L. President; J. Clement Grimes, 77 WashinetoB St., Providence, RX, "Secretary. 
* 

ROCHESTER. (New York) 'Peter J. Connelly, '33, 994 N. Goodman St, President; Frank Norton, '32, 80 Beckwith Terrace. Secretary. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY (IlUnou) Paul J. Fry. '27, 210 W. Third St, Dixon, HI., President; Gerald Jones. '22, 105 E. Second St, Dixon, HL, Secretary. 
On Sunday June 21, 1936, the. Notre Dame CInb of Sock River Val­ley held its sixth annual picnic and outing at Sherwood J. Dixon's cabin in Lost Nation, near Oregon, Illinois. There was a fried spring chicken pic­nic dinner served at noon. A total of 30 members were present, coming from Dixon, Rochelle, Rockford and Sterling. 
John P. Lahey has moved to Tay­lorville, Illinois, to manage a phar­macy. 
Dr. Tim J. Sullivan is a resident opthalmologist at Passavant hospital, Chicago, Illinois. 
George F. O'Malley is associated with his brother Peter in at hriving oil business. 
Dr. Dave Murphy and Bob Dixon are competing for the championship in motor speed boat racing in the Rock River Valley. 
J. Willard Jones is the head of the Illinois Funeral Directors. His new address is 222 Ottawa Avenue, Dixon, Illinois. 
Dr. Edward S. Murphy has re­turned from Chicago to open practice in the Dixon National Bank Build­ing with his brother Dr. Dave, follow­ing completion of his internship at Presbyterian hospital, Chicago, where he has been resident surgeon. 
Paul J. Fry. 
* 

SAN ANTONIO 
William V. Dielmann. Jr.. '25, 107 Thelma 
Drive, President; Edward G. Conroy. '30, 
204 E. Craie PI., Secretary. 
SPRINGFIELD. ILLINOIS 
Rudolph Kelly, ex. '17. 909 S. Park Ave.. 
President; Paul D. McConnell, '32, Secretary. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indian.) Louis F. Burkley. '28. 718 E. Corby Blvd.. South Bend, Ind.. President; Clarence Hard­ing. '23. South Bend Tribune. South Bend. Ind., Secretary. Plans are being made for smokers the night before each of the home games. These activities met with a great response last year. It is hoped that alumni will plan on being in South Bend the Friday nights before 
The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1936 
the games to attend. Everyone is anxious to hear Elmer Layden's gloomy predictions which are coun­teracted by the forecasts of visiting coaches and newspaper men who give away all pre-game secrets. The smokers will be held at the Jefferson-Plaza (K. of C. Building). Two tick­ets for the following day's game will be given as the door prize at each smoker. The co-chairmen of the com­mittees for these outstanding events are: October 2, Carnegie Tech Smoker, Dave Campbell, '29, and Giles Cain, '21; October 9, Washing­ton TJ. Smoker, Louis Bruggner, '23, and Franklin Miles, '21; October 16, Wisconsin Smoker, James E. Arm­strong, '25, and Dr. R. M. McDonald, '21; October 31, Ohio State Smoker, Joseph Nyikos, '23, and John Gibbons, '30; November 21, Northwestern Smoker, Paul Boehm, '33, and Dan Youngerman, '36. 
Louie Buckley. 
ST. LOUIS Holert Hellrunc. '30. SOB N. Grand BIviI.. President; David J. Rcilley, Jr.. '30. 1115 Louisville Ave., Secretary, 
SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) Thomas F. Van Aarie. "21. Standard Oil Co., Saginaw, Mich.. President: •William C. Hur­ley, '25, 117 Cherry St., Sacinaw, Mich., Secretary. 
* 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. Harrj- J. Corcoran. '27. 82 Port Watson St., Cortl.TOd, N. Y.. President: Donald J. Shee­hy, '33. 104 Glahn A\*c.. Syracuse. Secretary. 
TIFFIN, OHIO 
C. J. Schmidt. '11, 260 Melmorc St.. Presi­dent: Fred J. Wacner, '29. 152 Sycamore St.. Secretary. 
* 
TOLEDO 
Norbcrt Scharf. '26. Toledo Edison Co.. 
President; Joseph L. Wetii, '31, 717 Starr 
Ave., Secretary. 
* 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) 
.Joseph Hunt. Binphamton, President. Wil­, Ham Yeaffer, '34, 18 Vine St., Bini;hamton, 
Secretary. 
AI McCormack, according to W. W., is in the South Bend vicinity. I think he is located in the never-to-be­forgotten village of Mishawaka. 
Ted Griffin has been showing the southern tier how to play tennis this summer. Joe Checchia likes the game, too. 
Tommy Giordono is now Dr. Thom­as Giordono. He received his M.D. from the University of Rome, Last July he was given a fine testimonial dinner at the Arlington hotel. Tom has returned to Italy, where he will study surgery for one year. 
Francis J. Toomey comes to Bingo occasionally for week-ends. He is busy doing social work in New York City. 
Pat Quirk of Cortland likes our city, too. It's exceptionally nice in the vicinity of St. Paul's parish. Jim and Bill Hogan are back at their teaching. Ed is beginning his junior year at N.D. They lost a very won­derful mother this past August. May her soul rest in peace! 
Stew Osborne is still with the gas­oline company here. He and Joe Hunt should take a little time out, before next Spring, and give their softball team a little coaching. 
Expected a lisit from Ted Gabreski this summer but he couldn't make it. He is now beginning his third year at Jefferson Med. 
Bill Yeager. 
* 
TRI-CITIES (Illinois-Iowa) 
George Uhlmeyer, '23, Peoples' Lip;ht Co., Moline, HI., President: Elmer W. Besten, lJkB„ '27. 1711 \V. SLxtb St.. Davenport, la., Seeretnry, 
July 18, 1936 
George Uhlmeyer, president of the Tri-Cities Notre Dame Club, ap­pointed the writer to report to you the activities of our Club so that they may be set out in the ALUMMJS. 
About eight months ago we started the practice of the club meeting for luncheon everj' third Friday at the Fort Armstrong Hotel in Rock Is­land, Illinois, No doubt you know that Joe Whalen, '29, is manager of the Fort Armstrong Hotel for the Hoffman Hotels Corporation. Be­lieve you me, Joe is doing a wonder­ful job with the hotel. 
In our monthly luncheon meetings we have had very good attendance, usually anywhere from 12 to 25. At these meetings we just eat and talk about anything and everything so that the getting-together means that the fellows get to see each other more often and a finer spirit of coopera­tion and activity for the group is created. For this activity we have our president to thank. He has also spurred the club on to other activi­ties. 
George Uhmeyer did such a good job as president that it was unani­mously decided by the nominating committee that he should be nomi­nated for a second term, and the group, following the recommenda­tion of the nominating committee, named him as president for second term. Other oificers of the club now are Hayes Murphy, vice-president, Elmer Besten, secretary, and the writer, treasurer. Believe it or not 
we  have  a  little  money  in  the  
treasury.  
G. W. Vander  Vennet.  

TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) 
Gerald F. Conway, '32. David Int. First Nat'I Bk. Bids., St. Paul. Minn., President: Joseph R. Schroeder, '31, 219 Fremont Ave,. N.. Minneapolis, Minn., Secretary. 
UTAH 
RajTnond K. Brady. '24, 206 Kearns Bide,, Salt Lake City, President: Cyril Harbeeke. '19. 64 F. St.. Salt Lake City, Secretory. 
UTICA, NEW YORK 
Dr. John F. Kelley, '22, Peoples' Gas & Electric Bids,. President; Joseph W. Fullem, '31, 1621 Ncilson St., Secretary. 
WABASH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Paul Kennedy, '24, Templeton, Ind., Presi­dent Emmett Ferguson, '32, Wallace BIdg., I,afayette. Ind„ Secretary, 
WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT 
John Robinson, '28, 32 Farmington Ave., President: James M, Monaghan, '27. 44 Aycr St., Secretary. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 
John J. Dempsey. '95, Dcmpsey Lumber Co.. Tacoma, President; Robert L Pigott, '32. 3603 W. Manning St. Seattle. Secretary. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Joseph Bach, '26, Fort Pitt Hotel. Presi­dent; William Magarrall, '32, 1439 Franklin Ave., "Wilkinsburg, Secretary. 
Come another issue and with it come a mess of my split infinitives dangling participles and misplaced modifiers. But it seems that nothing can be done, so here they come! 
During the past summer I con­tacted quite a few of the boys in and around Magarrall's Flop — I mean Chop House. This is what I heard and saw: 
Add local boy makes good—much better than any of us other local boys: From the Sports Chatterbox column of Jess Carver, Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph sport •ivriter: "Personal nomination for Pittsburgh's best dressed lad—Fritx Wilson—^He knows exactly what to wear and how to wear it" 
Congratulations to you, Mr. and Mrs. Eddie O'Brien. The gang wishes them every future married happiness. 
Dr. Bob McDonald is back home from the Children's Hospital, Cincin­nati, Ohio. He's a "pediatrist," sir, and is now permanently established here to take care of all local alumni children, and otherwise, he hopes. 
Dick O'Toole also carries the same label, but he's still pediatrising in Cleveland. O'Toole wears glasses now, or rather he did until he at­tended a local wedding while home on vacation. But let him tell you the story. 
Don Martin is in the insurance business with his father now after working in Indiana for more than a year. Brother Pinkey had all his upper tusks yanked and in a blind­fold test can name the tjrpe, ingredi­ents, and brand of any soup on the market. 
During the off season Joe Bach has been doubling in brass—or is it gold, Joe?—and selling beer for his pro football boss, Art Rooney. 

Ed and Bill Conley are with Fire­stone up in Johnstown, Pennsylvania. It's nice that the Conley boys are in the jumbo balloon tube business see­ing as how there was a pretty big flood there one time. 
John Ryan continues one of the consistent alumni hereabouts. 
Friday, October 23. Lunch­eon for Visiting Alumni at the Roosevelt Hotel. 
Elbow Bending Parly Friday Night, October 23. 
Alumni Headquarters, 712 Smitbfield Street. Fritz Wilson in Charge. 
Distribution of Box Tickets for Games at South Bend to be Made at the Luncheons each Thursday of the Week Preced­ing each Home Game. 

It's said that the newspaper racket gets in the blood of those participat­ing in it but two ex-newsmen who have escaped this are John McMahon and Dick O'Donnell. John quit the Associated Press to take an execu­tive assistant's job at the Mellon In­stitute. He'll do well, too. Dick O'Donnell quit his reporting job on the Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph to go to Harrisburg and take a WPA pub­licity post. 
Vin Sweeney was the father of a baby girl August 30. 
Chuck O'Toole hoped it would be a boy in July and it was—but it was a boy in August. 
Lee Schneider has called his third papoose, John Francis. Lee howls that Leo Jr. and Bemice were never reported. But now they are! (Now will you name number four Bill, Lee?) 
Jim Dodson is a neighbor of Chick Davies, Duquesne University's fa­mous basketball coach and side kick in sport with our own head football coach, johnny Smith. So don't try to baffle Dodson on any technicalities of the floor sport because he'll prob­ably know the answers—or refer you to Chick. 
I came home from the class reunion with Jim Dillon, '35, who is now go­ing to Pitt Law School. 
With the graduation of Larry the "Clan O'Toole" has now turned out six Notre Dame graduates. Count 'em: Jim, Chuck, John, Dick, Bill and Larry. An unique record, partner, an unique record. Bob is still in school and he better continue the tradition or, well, six against one is a pretty tough battle royal. 
Joe O'Rourke has found a niche for his Sociology Major title. He's now in the office of the state's Moth­er's Pension Bureau. 
"Biceps" (and you should see them) Billy Lord has the kind of smile you wish would be around oftener. 
Dick Donafaoe is doing well with the transportation division of the 
A. & P. here. 
Jerry Arnold: An Indiana Hoosier who has done well midst the Penn­sylvania Dutch strain through the in­surance route. 
Duke Kingsley is peddling stock on the local mart. 
Those who have been swallowed by the good earth: Larry Smith, Carl Link and Charley Spinelli. 
Bob Fulton is doubling in dou­

bloons for a gold refinery here. 
Bill Magarrall. 
* 

WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA Thomas F. Howlcy, '11. Citizens-Peoples 
Trust Co., Wlieclintr. President: George Sar-
Kus. '28. 2111 Belmont, Bellaire. Ohio. 

YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO John Moran, '29, 1348 Quinn. President; 
Charles Cushwa. '31. 463 Madera Ave., 
Secretary. 
* 

WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME Sister Elizabeth Scton. S.C. St. Mary's 
ColleKC, Holy Cross, Ind.. President. 
Sister M. Anffelicc, B.V.5r., Secretary. 

The following members of the Women's Club attended the Summer Session at the University: 
Sister Leona, R.S.M., B.S. '25, Sister Immaculata, R.S.M., A.B. '29, Sister Perpetua, R.S.M., A.B. '29, Sister Martin, O.P., A.B. '30, Sister Richard, O.P., A.M. '34, Sister An­gelo, O.P., A.B. '30, Sister Evange­line, O.P., A.B. '26, Sister Leocadia, R.S.M., A.B. '30, Sister Callista, R.S.M., A.B. '27, all of Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
Sister Augustine, R.S.M., A.B. '29, 

Saginaw, Michigan; Sister Norberta, .O.P., M.A. '29, Lenox, Michigan; Sis­ter Loyola, S.N.D., A.B. '30, Cleve­land; Sister Mercedes, S.N.D., M.S. '33, Cleveland; Sister Ethelreda, O.S.U., A.M. '33, Toledo; Sister Rosella, S.N.D., A.B. '29, Toledo; Sis­ter Paul, O.S.U., M.A. '27, Youngs­
town, Ohio. 
Sister Bernadette, O.M., M.A. '35, Erie, Pennsylvania; Sister Hieronyme, R.S.M., B.A. '31, Pittsburgh, Penn­sylvania; Sister Edmund, R.S.M., 
A.M. '35, Wilkes-Barre, Pennsyl­vania; Sister Fabian, R.S.M., A.B. '31, Kansas City, Missouri; Sister Vincent, O.S.U., B.M. '33, Tulsa, Oklahoma; Sister Frederica, O.S.B., 
A.B. '26, Ferdinand, Indiana; Sister Georgetta, S.L., A.M, '28, Colorado Springs, Colorado; Sister Isabel, S.S.J., A.M. '30, Wichita, Kansas; Sister Mary, O.S.B., A.B. '32, Cull­man, Alabama. 
New Clubs Are Formed 
Groups Organized in Mid­dle West and New Jersey 

Two new Notre Dame dubs were formed within the Summer just past. One was the 
TRI-STATE 
F. Wendell Lensine. '30. 601 Bayard Park, 
Evansville. Ind., President: Ralph F. Heger, 
'25. i n Washington Ave., Dept. D., Evans­

ville, Ind., Secretary. club which is centered about Evans­ville, Indiana, and takes in the boys in southwestern Indiana, southeast-em Illinois and northwestern Ken­tucky. The following were elected ofiicers of the new dub at the organ­ization in Evansville on August 12: 
F. Wendell Leasing, president; Har­old D. Casey, vice-president; Ralph 
F. Heger, secretary; and Tom Hart-nett, treasurer. Those who reside within the new club's area, and didn't receive word of the first get-together, are asked to make their presence known to the officers at once. Many activities are in prospect. 
The second new club was the Notre Dame Club of 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY Anthony V. Ceres, '28. Perth Arahoy Nat'l. 
Banlc BIdB.,Perth Amhoy, President: John 
Lisiclci. '31, 292 Hall Ave., Perth Amboy, 

Secretary. made up of the boys who were too far distant from the center of opera­tions of the original New Jersey group. The new dub was set up with the co-operation of the fine club now headed by Ray Geiger of Newark and with the assistance of District Gov­ernor Keman Wingerter. 
The first officers of the Central New Jersey Club are Anthony V. Ceres, president; Albert G. Waters, Jr., vice-president; James Silver, treasurer, and John Lisicki, secretary. 
MRS. BREEN DIES 
(Continued from Pase 6) 

Hudson, and John W. Cavanaugh Endowment." 
One-half of the income from this shall be used for the education of priests of the Order of Holy Cross and the other half for the education of poor deserving boys in the Uni­versity as selected by it. 
In the wills of both Mr. Phillips and Mr. Breen there is evident not only that unselfish but happy per­petuation of the memory of the donors, but their generous determina­tion to immortalize those splendid men whose great contributions to the Church and education are too often lost. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus October. 1936 
» » » »

THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Announcement has heen made of the following- engagements: 
Miss Helen Lucy Cartier and Paul 
J. Withey, ex. '27. Miss Alice E. McKeon and Roger 
W. Breslin, '28. Miss Catherine Marie Bering and 
E. Richard Walter, '30. 
Miss Syhna Marks and Dr. Ray­mond Sobecki, ex. '31. 
Miss Helen Mincezewski and Charles Spangenberg, '32. 
Miss Margaret Smith and Raymond Reuland, '33. 
Miss Catherine Kelker, Jr., St. Marjf's, '33, and Charles F. Qumn, Jr., '34. 
Marriages 
Miss Virginia O'Brien and Clar­ence "Pat" ManJon, '22, were mar­ried August 3. 
Miss Elizabeth Shea and John P. Sullivan, '24, were married July 18. 
Miss Lucia Miller and John F. Stoeckiey, '25, were married August 
1. • 
Miss Emily Price and Joseph J. Hemphling, '26, were married June 27. 
lEss Helen Carroll and Francis P. McFadden, ex. '27, were married July 25. 
Miss Eleanor Little and William J. Coyne, '27, were married August 24. 
SEss Kathleen Mulqueen and Rob­ert A. Hamilton, '28, were married August 15. 
Miss Mary Louis Mylott and George Kelley, '28, were married August 29. 
Miss Terese Ryan and John V. Leddy, '29, were married August 8. 
Miss Mary E. Dennehy and Francis 
D. Ahem, '29, were married May 22. 
Miss Flora Elizabeth Pelton and John .Montgomery Ginz, '29, were married August 4. 
Miss Vivian C. Hoffman and Paul 
H. Brokhage, '29, were married May 30. 
Miss Grace Conzett and Dr. John 
J. Simones, '29, were married April 27. 
Miss Joella White and John A. Bitter, Jr., '30, were married June 30. 
Miss Mary Boss and Derere T. Plunkett, '30, were married Septem­ber 7. 
Miss Sarah Elizabeth Burgess and Daniel G. Sullivan, '30, were married September 16. 
Miss Margaret Jane Loughney and Joseph A. Moran, '30, were married September 12. 
Miss Mildred Sonderman, '32, and Rudolph E. Sturm, '30, were married June 11. 
Miss Angela M. Simshauser and Henry J. Roehl, '31, were married August 11. 

Miss Marjorie Walter and Paul . Duncan, '31, were married in August. 
Miss Katherine Pissell and Dr. Paul A. O'Connor, '31, were married -August 22. 
IVQss Elena Discepolo and Alfred 
E. Gall, '31, were married August 9. 
Miss Eleanor Volz and George W. Vander Vennet, '32, were married .A.ugust 4. 
Miss Olive Oelerich and James T. Igoe, '32, were married June 10. 
Miss Elizabeth Rita Heffeman and Herbert P. Giorgio, '32, were married August 22. 
Miss Patricia Willemin and Michael 
J. Lahey, '33, were married Septem­ber 5. 
Miss Louise Andrews and Herbert Myers, '33, were married June 17. 
IBss Margot Monroe and Karl Vogelheim, '33, were married June 22. 
Miss Angela Strauss and Thomas Reed, '33, were married July 4. 
Miss Grace Gould and Edwin Kos­ky, '33, were married July 8. 
SGss Katherine Genevieve De-Groote and Dr. Thomas B. Dorris, '33, were married June 20. 
Miss Francis Magill and William 
P. Hunter, '33, were married August 26. 
Miss Gertrude E. Huse and Henry 
J. Cluver, '33, were married June 20. 
Miss Peggy Reed and John M. Singler, ex. '34, were married July 18. 
Miss Hazel Ward and Myron D. Puterbaugh, Jr., '34, were married August 22. 
Miss Mary Alice Coen and F. Wells Robison, '34, were married August 6. 
Miss Catherine Mary Keefe and Fraacis D. Van Allen, '34, were mar­ried June 24. 
Miss Janet Mary Haverty and Ed­ward J. O'Brien, Jr., '34, were mar­ried August 24. 
Miss Beulah E. Green and Thomas 
J. Flanagan, ex. '34, were married September 5. 
Miss Mary Lucille Odenbach and Allan Gerard Farrell, '34, were mar­ried July 18. 
Miss Virginia Crow and John F. Stecker, ex. '35, were married Sep­tember 10. 
Miss Irene Howard and John J. Jordan, '35, were married August 29. 
Miss Leah Keel and Joseph Kum­ler, '36, were married July 18. 
Miss EUeyn Grace Carmey and Irvin Crotty, '36, were married Au­gust 5. 
Miss Thelma Mae Love and James 
R. Bacon, ex. '37, were married July 25. 
Miss Henrietta Ullery and Walter 
T. Manuszak, ex. '38, were married August 22. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Parker, '17, announce the birth of a son, August 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin J. Buckley, '24, announce the birth of a son, Edwin J. Jr., July 22. 
Dr. and Mrs. David Murphy, '25, announce the birth of a son, David, Jr., May 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. William Cemey, '25, announce the birth of a daughter, Patricia, August 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Wurzer, '25, announce the birth of a son, Henry Kahl, May 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. John P. Hurley, Jr., '25, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Patricia Lee, June 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Ley, '26, announce the birth of a son, Theo­dore, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. John McNellis, '27, announce the birth of a daughter, Patricia Jean, May 9. 
Jlr. and Blrs. Francis Moran, '27, announce the birth of a daughter, Sylvia, August 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. William Kirwan, '28, announce the birth of a son, William Gerard, June 14. 

October, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 23 
Mr. and Mrs. John McMahon, '28, announce the birth of a son, in July. 
Mr. and Mrs. James P. Kennedy, ex. '29, announce the birth of a son, John Staunton, August 31. 
Mr. and Mrs. James M. O'Toole, '29, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Deirdre Elizabeth, August 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. Franklin O'Marah, '30, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Maureen Patricia, June 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. Guillermo Morphy, '31, announce the birth of a son, Guillermo, June 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Burns, '32, announce the birth of a daughter, Mary Ann, July 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Lee, Jr., '32, announce the birth of twin daughters, Eoberta Anne and Bar­bara Jean, June 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Fabrycki, '32, announce the birth of a son, June 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Haberkern, 

'33, announce the birth of a son, Ernest, Jr., July 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. Tighe Woods, '33, announce the birth of a son, Bryan Tighe, August 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Kraus, '33, announce the birth of a son, Michael Frederick, June 2. 
Deaths 
(The Summer took heavy toll. Space prevents extensive reports of details of the following deaths. In most instances, achievement has writ­ten its own eloquent epitaph in the minds and hearts of fellow alumni.) 
Notre Dame lost a brilliant hono­rarj' alumnus and former teacher of many of the priests of Holy Cross, and the Church lost one of its great iigures, in the death on July 10 of Most Eev. William H. Turner, D.D., 
LL.D. '26, Bishop of Buffalo. Many alumni studied from his scholarly History of Philosophy. Many of the priests of the Congregation studied in his classes at Catholic University. 
Dr. Francis J. Quinlan, Laetare Medalist in 1906, famous authority on eye, ear, nose and throat, died July 27, in Amawalk, N. Y., at the age of 83. For many years he was associated with St. Vincent's Hospi­tal in New York City, 
The same day saw the death of Rt. Rev. Msgr. William J. Kerby, 
LL.D. '12, nationally known sociol­ogist and for 39 years a faculty member of Catholic University, where he taught many of the Notre Dame priests who have reflected much of his scholarship in this field. 
The members of the Congregation generally were shocked on July 3 by the drowning of two seminarians at the Holy Cross summer camp, Oak­land, Maryland. Alfred J. Schreiber, C.S.C, M.A. '32, and Francis J. Rdzok, C.S.C., A.B. '35, were victims of an accident when the boat in which they Were rowing capsized. Funeral services were held in Sacred Heart Church on the University campus. 
Two priests of the Holy Cross Order, not graduates of the Univer­sity, died during the summer. The first was Rev. Moses McGarry, the oldest member of the Congregation. Father McGarry was ordained in Montreal in 1875. For 34 years he was at St. Laurent college, and then became assistant superior general of the Order, retiring from that post in 1926. 
The second member of the Congre­gation to die was Rev. Angus Mac­Donald. Father MacDonald, 54 years old, was on the mission band of the Congregation for 20 years and was more recently an instructor at St. Edward's University. 
Brother Paschal, C.S.C., 84 years old, a Brother of the Congregation since 1907, died June 18. 
Frank J. Weisenburger, 78, died in Chicago on June 16. Mr. Weisen­burger was graduated from Notre Dame in 1875. He served the first Mass of the late Rev. Daniel Hudson, CS.C. He was father-in-law of Ed­ward L. Figel, '11. 
Gustave A. Schnull, student at Notre Dame in the '80s, prominent wholesale grocer of Indianapolis, died there Monday, June 22. 
Rt. Rev. Msgr. James H. Black, Class of 1889, former chancellor of the archdiocese of Portland, Oregon, died there June 4, after a lingering illness of several years. Monsignor Black, while studying for the priest­hood, taught at St. Edward's Univer­sity in Austin, and was ordained at Mt. Angel College, Oregon, in 1893. He had been prominent in the Port­land archdiocese for 25 years. 
Rev. Joseph J. Boyle, C.S.C, Litt.­

B. '08, died Friday, July 3, at the home of relatives in Mason City, Iowa. Father Boyle, who was presi­dent of the University of Portland, had been ill for a year. He is known to thousands of alumni and non-alumni for his great work in the Holy Cross mission band from 1912 to 1928, particularly in the Notre Dame Lay Retreat. He was a mem­ber of the faculty of the College of St. Thomas until 1933, going to Port­land in 1934. Father Boyle was bur­ied from Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
Vem Janowski, a graduate phar­macist of 1912, who reecived his Ph.C. the following year, was killed in a fall down the stairs of a newly completed store at 1301 W. Washing­ton St., South .Bend, June 22. Vem was a World War veteran and a char­ter member of South Bend Post 50. 
W. Ray CarUer, M.E. '13, out­standing leader in Ludington, Mich­igan, son of the late Warren A. Car­tier, '87, died suddenly in Ludington on July 16. Mr. Cartier was secre­tary-treasurer of the Electric Tamper & Equipment Company. He is sur­vived by his mother, his wife, and three children, and two brothers, Vincent and Morgan. 
The ALUMNUS has just been in­formed of the death of Rev. Leo J. Jones, M.M.. A.B. '18. Father Jones had just recently returned to China after a visit of almost a year in this country. Details were lacking, but in the troubled conditions of the • China missions, some fears are ex­pressed that he had been martyred. His address was Fingnam, Kwangsi, South China. 
Louis J. Vennet, '27, son of Prank H; Vennet, '77, was killed in an auto­mobile-accident near Ashtabula, Ohio, on June 30. Mr. Vennet was living in Cleveland, where he was an insur­ance broker. He was buried in South Bend. His car struck an electric lo­comotive. 
Martin J. O'Phelan, M.A. Boy Guidance '29, died July 21 in Port Jervis, New York, as the result of an operation. He was a.ssistant to the executive secretary of the New York Catholic Youth Association. 
John T. O'Neill, '30, died in Mas­sena. New York, his home, on July 31, after only a few hours illness caused by peritonitis. 
Richard J. Mclntyre, B.S. Pharm. '31, was killed in an automobile acci­dent near Decatur, Illinois, on July 7. He had been working in Gary but was in Illinois planning a business change. He had worked in South Bend and Mishawaka pharmacies prior to the early part of this year. 
George Thomas Coady, B.S. in E.E. '33, died on July 10 in Charleston, West Virginia, the result of perito­nitis, following an appendectomy. He was manager of the gas department of tiie Union Carbide Company, a po­sition just assigned him as a promo­tion two weeks before his death. 
Francis Lavengood, B. Arch., '34, died in South Bend on August 26. He was a popular student, being an organist and pianist of talent, in ad­dition to a pleasing personality and professional skill in his chosen field. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sym­pathy to: Bob Roger*, '35, upon the death of his father; William Murphy, ex. '30, upon the death of his father; Erwin J. LeBlanc, '26, upon the death of his father; William Hogan, '32, and James Hogan, '34, upon the death of their mother; Brother Mel, CS.C, '31, upon the death of his brother, Tom McGannon, burned in the explosion at Purdue University; Joseph F. Gargan, '17, upon the death of his wife. 
Personals 
Before 1880 f'T^'Z: ^^-'^S-^"'' 
lajrhcr. Fitchburp, Mass. 
The Alumni Office was much 
pleased to have in the Summer just 
past a note from Matthew B. Torbett, 
Box 731, Atlanta, Georgia, one of the 
oldest of living alunmi. Mr. Torbett 
finished at the University in June, 
1872 and is now 83 years old. 
1880-1885 Sccrctarj-: Pnof. IJobcrt M. Andcrsan. GircIevUIe, Ohio. 
1886 Secretarj-: Michael O. Burns. 338 S. Second SU. Hamilton. Ohio. 
* 
1887-1888 Secretary: J. h. Heincman, Connersville. Indiana. 
1889 Secrelarj-: P. E. Burke. 301 Camp New Orleans. Louisiana. 
* 
1890-1893 Secretary: Louis P. Chute. 7 Univ. Av., Minneapolis. Minn. 
1894 Secretao": Hush A. O'Donnell. 1 W. 
XO01 ^.^^ g^ jj^^. Y„rl; City. 

1895 Secretary: Eustace Cullinan, Sr,. 860 Phelan BIdff.. San Francisco. Calif. 
189S Secretary: William P. Bums. 327 Araiard Ave., Michiffan City. Indian.i. 
* 

1897 Secrctarj-: Rev. J. A. MacNamara. St. Jos. Sanitarium. Mt, Cement. Mich. 
* 

1898 Secretary: William C. Kcder. 9th & Sycamore 'Sts.. Cincinnati. Ohio. 
* 

1899 Secretary: Dr. Joseph F. Duane. 418 Jefferson Blvd.. Peori.i, III. 
* 

1900 Secretary: John W. EjrKeman. Old 
x^uvr j,.^ ^ g^^j. g|^^ j, ^ Was-ne. Ind. 
* 

1901 Secretary: Joseph J. SuIIiran. 1300. 139 N. Qarl: St.. ChicaKO. 111. 
* 

1902 Secretary: C. C. Mitchell. 110 S. 
Dearborn St.. Box 3. Chicaso. Ill-One of'the outstanding contestants in the annual touraament of the Women's Western Golf Association, conducted in South Bend in August, was Miss Marian McDougall, daugh­ter of Natt McDougall, and sister of Natt McDougall, Jr., '33. Much dis­appointed because, on her first visit to South Bend and Notre Dame, she arrived in the non-football season. Miss McDougall planned to get back to the campus for a game in October, after participating in other tourna­ments in the East. 
1903 Secretary: Francis P. Burke. 904 Trust Co. Bide, Milwaukee. Wis. 
1904 Secretary: Kobert Proctor, Moncer Bide. Elkhart. Indiana. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1905 Secretary: Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. LaSallc St., Chicago, III. 
* 
1906 Secretary: Thomas A. Lally. 811-13 Paulsen Bid?.. Spokane, Wash. 
* 
1907 Secretary: Rev. Thomas E. Burke. C.S.C., Notre Dame. Ind. 
An all-day observation on the cam­pus on June 30 marked the silver jubilee of nine members of the class of 1907 who were ordained to the priesthood in 1911. The jubiliarians included Very Rev. James W. Dona­hue, C.S.C., superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross; Rev. Louis M. Kelley, C.S.C., Rev. William 
H. Molony, C.S.C., Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., Rev. William Cun­ningham, C.S.C., Rev. Paul Foilcy C.S.C., Rev. Wenaell . P. Corcoran, C.S.C., Rev. Patrick Durcan, C.S.C., Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C., and Rev. Dominic Cannon, C.S.C. 
There was solemn high Mass cele­brated in Sacred Heart Church, with Father Donahue as celebrant. Father Cunningham as deacon, Father Folk as sub-deacon, and Father Burke as master of ceremonies. A jubilee din­ner was served in the evening. 
* 
1908 Secretary: Frank X. Cull. Bulkley Building Cleveland. Ohio. 
1909 Secretary: E. P. Qcary. Notre Dame, Indian.i. 
* 

-1910 Secretary: Rev. M. L. Moriarty. 1900 Euclid Ave.. Cleveland. Ohio. 
Harry Miller's new address is 2410 Pennsylvania Avenue, Wilmington, Delaware. He has moved from Cleve­land, where he headed the legal de­partment of the Grasselli Chemical Company, to join the legal staff of Grasselli's parent concern, the E. I. duPont de Nemours. 
1911 Secretary: Fred Steers. 16G6 First National Bank BIdK.. Chicago. IB. 

Fred Steers, secretary-treasurer of the Central A.A.U. for the past 11 years, was recently elected to suc­ceed himself in the same posts. 
Father Charles Miltner, jUst re­turned from a year's study and travel in Europe, addressed the South Bend Rotary Club on September 2 on "Conditions in Europe." His talk was broadcast by WSBT, of South Bend. 
Two suggestions adopted at the 25­year re-union last June and presented to Father O'Hara, president of the Universitj', by Pedro de Landero, local chairamn of the re-union, have been carried out. One was that the new residence hall be named Cava­naugh Hall in honor of the late be­loved president—and it was so named. The other was that the first Mass in the new hall be said for Brother Leo­pold, since the hall was being erected 
October, 1936 
on the site of the Brother's famous store. The first Masses in the chapel of Cavanaugh Hall were said by Fa­ther O'Hara for Brother Leopold and Father Cavanaugh. 
* 
1912 Secretary: B. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth St., PittshurEh, Pa. 
1913 Secretary: James J. Devitt. 921 En­gineers' Bide, Qeveland, Ohio. 
1914 Secretary: Frank H. Hayes. 406 Bank of America Bide, Anaheim. Cal. 
Editor and Publisher, "bible" of the newspaper world, carried in one of its July issues an excellent article on Theodore MacManus, LL.D., '14. 
Earl Reeder, for the past five years secretary of the Associated Merchants of South Bend, was in August ap­pointed associate editor of the South Bend Neivs-Times by J. M. Stephen­son, editor and publisher. Earl, pre­vious to his associations with the Mer­chants Association, had had extensive experience in the newspaper and the advertising fields, both in South Bend and Grand Rapids. He served in the World War and was discharged with the rank of first lieutenant. 
][025 Secretary: James E. Sanford. Far\vcll Ave.. ChicaRo. Ill, 
1916 Secretary: Timothy P. Galvin. First Trust Bide. Hammond. Ind. 

Father Vince Mooney, formerly director of Catholic Youth Organiza­tion actirities in the South Bend deanery, has been transfei-red by Bishop John F. Noll to hold a similar post in the Fort Wayne deanery. 
Lou Kiefer, of Terre Haute, In­diana, with his father toured Europe this Summer. He had an enjoyable visit with Pat Harl n Paris. 
Just too late for the June issue of the ALUMNUS Tim Galvin sent the following piece of welcome news: 
Thomas A. Hayes, LL.B. '16, has been serving for more than a year as special agent of the Intelligence Unit of the Bureau of Internal Revenue. He is attached to the Chicago division and has served both in Milwaukee and in Detroit. While in Milwaukee he contacted Bill Redden, Freeman Fitzgrerald and Tom Kelly, all of whom are old friends of the 1912­1916 days at Notre Dame. 
Tom Hayes is now stationed in De­troit where his home address is 12040 Kjlboume Avenue. His office is Room 630, Federal Building. Tom attended the recent Universal Notre Dame cel­ebration in Detroit and there met many of his old Notre Dame acquaint­ances. He has recently contacted John T. (Tim) Callahan, who was a Freshman at Notre Dame about 1914, and who afterwards became a famous All-American center at Yale. Tim is now chief attorney for the Securi­ties and Exchange commission, with headquarters in Washington. Those who remember him and his marvelous agility as a freshman center at Notre Dame will be startled to learn that Tim now weighs 284 pounds. 
The proudest boast of Hayes is that his son. Tommy, can beat and other three-year-old in the world singing the "Victory March." 
1917 Secretary: Edward J. McOsker. 104 
S. Union St.. ElRin. 111. 

Appearing in the South Bend Netvs-Times and in other papers is the comic strip, "Rube Appleberry," which is the product of Paul Fogarty and his associate, Al Demaree. 
'17 men received with particular acclaim the news that Father Michael Early, C.S.C., had been chosen as president of the University of Port­land (formerly Columbia) in July. He will succeed the popular and able Father Joseph Boyle, C.S.C., who died earlier in the same month after a lingering illness. Father Early had been vice-president of Portland in Father Boyle's administration. Pre­viously he had served in Notre Dame and at St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minnesota. 
Just before leaving with his family for a vacation at the Texas Centen­nial celebration and in Mexico Danny Hilgartner wrote that Bernie Voll, Duke Riley and he were already at work on plans for the twentieth re­union of the class next June. 
Danny wrote: "Bernie has prom­ised to get out all of the seventeeners in South Bend and on the campus among the faculty and community, and I have guaranteed to bring back all classmates who reside in Chicago —for a starter." 
He added: "Young Danny returns to Mount Carmel as a Junior this year . . ." and went on to say that Danny, Jr. is planning to be a fresh­man in Aeronautical Engineering at Notre Dame two years hence. Time marches on! 
Dr. Leo O'Donnell very kindly sent from Pittsburgh in July a letter written on March 11, 1896 by Dr. Jerome Green, famous figure at Notre Dame in the development of wireless telegraphy, to the Pittburgh Reduc­tion Company. The letter was given to Doctor O'Donnell by one of the staff of the Aluminum Company of America. It concerned a sheet of aluminum, could easily be figured as an important part of Doctor Green's experiments. 
One of the sensations of the regis­tration days in mid-September was the receipt of an application for ad­mission to the University in 1952. It came from young—very young— Mr. Leo D. O'Donnell, of Pittsburgh. 
2918 Secretary: John A. Lemmer, XllO— 8th Ave., S., Escanaba. Mich. 
Dan Morrissey, as president of the Laymen's Retreat Movement, was one of the leading figures in the sixth national conference of the Movement held in the Palmer House, Chicago, in June. Joseph Scott of Los An­geles was among the famous figures, both clerical and lay, who addressed the Conference. 
2919 Secretary: Clarence Bader. G50 Pierce Street. Gary, Indiana. 
Danny Hilgartner, '17, reports that Charles J. McCauley, is now resident manager of One Fifth Avenue, "a veiy swanky apartment building in New York City." 
* 

1920 Secretary: Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black Bldff., Los Angeles, Calif. 
For the fourth consecutive year AI Slaggert has been appointed to the committee on legal ethics and pro­fessional conduct of the Detroit Bar Association. He is also again repre­senting the city of Ludington, Mich­igan, in radio discussions of the 1936­37 Pere Marquette Pageant to be staged in Ludington. 
1921 Secretary: Dan W. Duffy, 1600 Term­inal Tower, Qcveland, Ohio. 
1922 Secretary: Gerald Ashe, Buffalo Ath­letic Club. Buffalo, New York. 
Aaron Huguenard is one the newly-elected members of the board of man­agers of the Indiana state bar asso­ciation. 
* 

1923 Secretary: Paul Castner, Edwards Homemobile Co., South Bend, Ind. 
1924 Secretary: J, P. Hayes, Wm. P. Peil­rick .t Co., Emp. State Bids.. N.Y.C. 
1925 Secretary: John W. Scallan, 79 E. Adams St., Chicafro. 111. 
E. Bradley Bailey has joined the Benjamin Eshleman Company, Phila­delphia advertising agency, in charge of the bureau of consumer-sales de­velopment. He had been with the 
F. Wallis Armstrong Company, Phila­delphia and previously had spent sev­eral years in large chain-store man­agement. 
Russ Amdt is starting another sea­son as the popular and able coach of the Mishawaka High School team. Just recently he was the speaker be­fore the Lions Club in Mishawaka. 
Readers of the American Magazine were pleased to note in the Septem­ber issue the story, "Blocking Back," by Harry Stuhldreher, new coach at the University of Wisconsin. Harry's boys will meet Elmer's lads in the local arena on October 17. 
The news of Joe Toolen's marriage to Miss Mary McGill, of LaPorte, In­diana, early last February came through on the underground not long ago, Howie Spencer was the best man. The Toolens are at home in Anderson, Indiana, according to the latest available reports. 
Bill Voor has recently been elected grand knight of South Bend Council, Knights of Columbus. Eli Abraham, new district deputy of the K. of C, assisted with Bill's installation, and Paul Butler, in behalf of the attor­neys affiliated with the council, pre­sented Bill with a gavel. At the same meeting Ed Doran offered congratu­lations to Father Wendell Corcoran, C.S.C., upon the latter's appointment as state chaplain of the K. of C. 
Wall Houppert is now state counsel of the Home Owners' Loan Corpora­tion, with headquarters in Indianap­olis. He had been assistant regional counsel for the same corporation in Detroit. 
1926 Secretary; Dr. Gerald TV. Hayes, SS Hawthorne Ave., East Orange, N.J. 
Charlie Mason, president of the Indianapolis Notre Dame club, spent several days at the University in Sep­tember supervising the installation of the telephone equipment in the new Cavanaugh Hall. He reported that Tom Sheridan, another '26 engineer, is also doing telephone work. Tom is with the telephone company in Brooklyn but fights his way out of the town to get back to New Jersey for the week-ends. 
Still another '26er and another Jerseyite has been in Brooklyn. Ed Hargan has been attending the Brook­lyn Law School, but is finished there and will take the New York bar exam this month, according to our New Jersey scout. 
Joe Quinlan is another '26 man in the telephone business. Joe has just been promoted to be superin­tendent of the plant department in the South Bend district of the In­diana Bell. He is living in South Bend, of course, and is mighty happy to be back in the old stamping grounds after an absence of 10 years. Joe had been outstate division trans­mission engineer for the company since 1929, with headquarters in In­dianapolis. 
1927 Secretary: Bdmund Dcaerq, 8118 Ellis Ave.. Chicago, 111. 
The Harvard Alumni Bulletin re­ported in June that 15 men, induding six members of the police depart­ments and five traffic experts from various parts of the United States and Canada would receive fellowships of ?1,200 each for study during 1936­37 at the Harvard Bureau for Street Traffic Research. One of the 15 was Edward E. Ktrwan, Louisville, Ken­tucky, senior engineer in charge of 
streets in Louisville. Congratulations to Ed! 
On a vacation trip this Summer the Managing Editor met Bob Steph­an on the boat from Washington, 
D. C. to Norfolk, Virginia. Bob is with the United States Gypsum Com­pany. He is district credit manager, with offices in 30 Rockefeller Plaza, having been promoted recently from the Chicago offices of the same com­pany. 
A! Doyle, head of the Speech De­partment in the University, has been reappointed Democratic city chair­man of Mishawaka by County Chair­man Ed Doran. 
Phil Doell has just been moved to Cleveland by General Electric. He says: "Since 1929 I've been located with the GE at the Pittsfield (Mass.) Works. I've just been sent out on the road as a technical representative handling Glyptal resins. I'm making my headquarters here in Cleveland but will be doing considerable travel­ing throughout Ohio and down into Kentucky and Tennessee. Brumleve and Rauber are in the office here, so I'll have pretty close contact with the Cleveland club." Phil's home address is 2192 McKinley Avenue, Lakewood. 
1928 Secretary: Louis Buckley. 718 E. Corby St.. South Bend, Ind. 
Ed Duffy, in a letter from Essex Fells, New Jersey, reports that he sometimes sees Adrian Lopez, 203 Orange Road, Montclair, New Jersey; Jay Curtis, ex. '29, 3 Woodside Ave­nue, Cedar Grove, New Jersey; and Leo Hughes, ex. '29, 44 Clinton Ave­nue, Glen Ridge, New Jersey. 
Tom Mahon has been promoted by Thompson & McKinnon and moved from Duluth to 131 Endicott Build­ing, St. Paul. He writes: 
Am staying at the K. of C. Club for the time being. Am rooming with Clem Powers, and D. D. Daly rooms next to us. Sort of a Notre Dame comer. See Ed Fahey occa­sionally and John not quite so often. Bumped into Gil Salmon at the club the other day. He is with Minnesota Mining & Mfg. Co. Louie Buckley was in town for a day or so last week. He was up in my room and between Louie, Powers and my.=elf we had a great session. 
Bob Hamilton was married to a good little Norwegian named Kath­leen Marion Mulqueen last Saturday at St. Mary's Church of the Presenta­tion, Jamaica, Long Island last Sat­urday. Outside of that I have little or no dope on the ex-N.D.'ers. Ray Mock is around town somewhere but I haven't run across him yet. Expect to see Danny Coughlin down at Waseca shortly. As soon as it gets cooler I will start calling on the small towns within a radius of 100 to 125 miles of the Twin Cities, calling on the banks and certain individuals and, no doubt, will bump into some of the alumni from time to time. 
Jack Mullen has moved again— this time to the other end of the con­tinent. He's still with the Benton and Bowles advertising agency but is in Los Angeles producing the radio show known as the Goose Creek Par­son. His address is 8316 West Fourth Street, Los Angeles. 
Joe Kinneary has opened law of­fices in 605 Traction Building, Cin­cinnati. 
* 
1929 Secretary: Joseph P. McNamara. 231 Wisconsin Street, Indianapolis, Ind. 
Carl Compton has been appointed as a teacher of art in Central Junior High School in South Bend. Follow­ing his A.B. from Notre Dame in 1929, Carl received his B.F.A. from the Art Institute in Chicago in 1934 and also studied art in Paris. 
In unison with the local press we say that "tops in vacation honors, for the most interesting trip, perhaps, of any enjoyed by local travelers, goes to Francis Jones, son of Vitus G. Jones." Only we'd leave the "per­haps" out. The brilliant South Bend controversialist left the first of June for a world tour and expected to be back in time for the first football game. He was to see China, Japan, the Philippine Islands, India, Ethio­pia, just to name a few choice spots, and return by way of Europe, as we recall it. One of his reports to the stay-at-homes, revealed that "Peiping is a real Chinese city." And also "Mr. Jones made a trip to the famous Chi­nese wall." 
John Donahue writes: When I wrote you this last Spring I was finishing my third year of teaching at the West Allis Vocational School. But I'm back into the engi­neering field and located with the Allis-Chalmers Mfg. Co. Our district office is in the Waldheim Bldg., Kan­sas City. 
Fred Weiss, B.S.E.E., 1929, is tem­porarily stationed at Deepwater, Mis­souri, as resident engineer for the firm of E. T. Archer & Co., consult­ing engineers of this city. I met Fred and his fiancee at Mass last Sunday, after which we had a long talk and exchanged bits of informa­tion on all our friends at the Uni­versity. 
Henry Massman, Jr., B.S.C.E., 1928, of the Massman. Construction Co. of this city, is at this writing enjoying a vacation in California. He'll have plenty of work to do when he returns, however, as his firm has been successful in securing several large government dam projects. One in particular is the two million dollar contract for a dam near Hannibal, Missouri. 
On a recent trip, I stopped to see Moon Mnllins in Atchison, Kansas, but, as he was out playing golf and my time was limited, I left my re­gards. 
I was in Madison, Wisconsin this summer and saw Red Tom Hearden who was attending the summer ses­sion at the university. He's been very successful in his coaching at Racine, but has accepted an offer and will be in Green Bay this Fall. Bert Dunne, '26, of the Campbell-Ewald Advertising Agency, telephoned my home in Milwaukee on a recent trip through Chicago. Of course, I was here at the time and was certainly sorry to have missed him, but he's promised to see me on one of his frequent trips through Kansas City. 
1930 Secretary: Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth St., New Kensin;:ton, Fa. 
John W. Gibbons, '30, former South Bend newspaper man, is now executive secretary of the South Bend Civic Safety Council. 
Dr. Ralph V. August has opened an office for the practice of medicine at 125 East Broadway, Muskegon, Michigan. He is residing in the Strand Apartments, Muskego n Heights. 
Gus Bond!, assistant manager of the South Bend district of the Metro­politan Life Insurance Company, has been promoted to the post of agency sales instructor for the states of In­diana and Ohio. 
The Chicago press reports that Jack Elder took on a couple of his 
C.Y.O. boys in a 100-yard dash a while back—and beat them. "I won, but I could hear them coming," said Jack. The report that it took Jack two hours to recover hasn't been ver­ified. 
* 
1931 Secretary: John Bergan, 828 B. Col­fax Ave.. South Bend, Ind. 
Spike McAdams, "Chicago's young­est boxing referee," has just received his doctor's degree in law at Kent College. 
Dr. William V. Gadek's address is the Margaret Hague Maternity Hos­pital, Clifton Place, Jersey City, New Jersey. 
Art Kane is now handling advertis­ing, for the Southwestern Gas and Electric Company, with headquarters in Shreveport, Louisiana, after leav­ing Sear Roebuck. Art says: 
"See Freddy Carmody every now and then down here in these parts. He is working for the United Gas Company now. Bumped into Dick Noweiy the other day, too. He tells me that he is doing a little drilling for oil in Vivian, La. Incidentally, Dick is the proud papa of what is apparently a future N.D. fullback. 
Joe Sebroeder, of Minneapolis, has been named secretary and director of public relations for the Minnesota 
27 

October, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
l5jwillllllllMlllllltlllllllMllllll«IIMIItllllilllllllillllllMllillinilllllllllllllitlllllllilllitll»HlillUllllllltllllillMlltllllillllillimtllllllllllltlllWtlll -a 
H-................... 
^— -^ -• -— 1 .1 1. r • I r L 11 
i GREATER NOTRE DAME, building for the future as well as the present, demands | the best in materials and workmanship. Limited resources command that econ-| omy accompany that quality. ALUMNI can do no better than profit by the Uni-| versity's experienced judgment ?
2/1 . ~ |*]i*iituiit)it*iiui *iiitiiittiitii<iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiti))iiiiiiiiiiiii)iiiitiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiitiiiitiiitiiiiiiitiiittiiiiMiiiiiiiitiiiniiitiiitiiiitiiniittiiiitii 
0-
•iliiiiiiiiiiiiiinitiiiiiiii>tiii<t>li>*iii<*'l 
iiiiitiiiiiialtiiiiiiilttKiiiilliiiiiiiitiiii 
SOLLITT CONSTRUCTION CO.. Inc. 
General Contractors 
Tel. 3-3113 
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 

I 518-22 E. Sample St. 
iSJiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
...0 
a B" 

ASBESTOS & ASPHALT J. C. LAUBER & CO. 
PRODUCTS CO. 
V 

I I30E. Jefferson Blvd. I South Bend, Indiana 
IS]........I ....It. » .••>.t....>...i..i.».t I It 
Q. . I...II...I...I I...I...II..11.1.1.11 Ill II..II.... 
Sheet Metal  
V  
 Tel. 4-4600  |  |  504-08 E. LaSalle St.  TeL 3-4960  |  
i •....•Kiii..ii..ii>..i...i...iQ  |  LU...  South Bend, Indiana)tiii)itiitiii*iiiiiiii"i>**ii**"  | ..........................J  
la  
 III..11.III..11.III..Ill I7J  F1..I  

E.R. NEWLAND CO. 
I SERVICE TO INDUSTRY AND TO THE HOME j 1 
I GENERAL ASBESTOS & SUPPLY CO.  INCORPORATED 
II  ROOFING. SHEET METAL AND INSULATIONS 
V 

Builders Supplies 
| | Builder's Supplies, Facins Brick, Home Insulations, Steel Windows, Garase Doois, etc 
| | 

COAL and COKE 
I | 
I I 
TeL 3-2173 
1401 S. Main St 

128 S. Main St. Tel. 3-2092 | | 
South Bend, Indiana 
South Bend. Indiana | | 
Q>i .—.......,.,..„..,... , 0 HI. 
Petroleum Industries. In his new job he will travel throughout the state and will undoubtedly be in touch with many N.D. men. 
Father Bourke Motsett and Ralph Dalton couldn't make the class re­union last June, so they made a few re-unions of their own. Jim Doyle collected a crowd in Chicago to have a dinner at the Lake Shore Athletic Club. Present, besides Jim, were Don 0*Toole, Paul O'Toole, Vince Ponic, Jerry Desmond, Frank Hol­land, Ben Oakes, Bill Leahy, Gil Sea­man, Nick Bohling, Bill Redmond, Bob Pendergast and Eddie Ryan. 
From Chicago the re-unioning duo went to Grand Rapids for a visit with Joe Boyland and John Pulte. They reported that both the Grand Rapid­ers are doing well; Joe has a partic­ular interest in a large hospital, be­sides his insurance business. 
In Rochester, Michigan, the cleric and laymen had dinner in Walt De­Baene's home and enjoyed a pleas­ant evening with Walt, Bob Neydon, Rusi Beaupre, De Baene and Mac Trombley. 
On the return trip the travelers stopped on the campus and met lots of the "natives" here. 
1932 Secretary: Herbert Giorsio. 9005 ISSth St.. Hollis. L.I.. New York. Cletus "Jack" LjTin is engaged with Clarence Saunders in promoting a new store project. He's residing at 16 South Idlewild, Memphis. 
Proudly we point to the fact that our Joe Petritz, sports editor of the ALUMNUS and athletic publicity di­rector of the University, was elected vice-president of the American Col­lege Publicity Association at the As­sociation's annual meeting in Boston this Summer. His election moved one sports editor to remark in print that the Association had done well to honor the man who, even in han­dling the toughest job of its kind in the country, is pre-eminent in abil­ity and efficiency. The editors of the ALUMNUS, concur, second the motion and otherwise are in accord with them sentiments. 
Father Vince Brennan, recently or­dained for the Pittsburgh diocese, was one of the attendants at the an­nual Boy Leadership course con­ducted on the campus by the Knights of Columbus this Summer. 
Dr. Jacob Rosewasser has opened his offices for the practice of medi­cine at 602 North Main Street in Mishawaka after finishing his interne­ship at the Indiana University hos­pital. 
A letter in the middle of August from Regis Kuhn said that he ex­pected to start football practice at Central High School in Wheeling, West Virginia, on August 25. He was looking ahead to a 10-game schedule and plenty of tough compe­tition for his team, as well as to see­ing the Pitt-N.D. game in Pittsburgh on October 24 and to attending the five-year reunion of the '32 class next June. 
Colman O'Shaughnessy to John Kiener.to Joe Petritz to the ALUM­NUS! By that triple play the editors have a recent letter written by Col­man, advertising manager of the Equitable Paper Bag Co., Brooklyn, New York, to John, of the Kiener Coal Company, Cleveland, and for­warded by John to ye Petritz, who switched it to the Alumni Office. Colman wants John to use paper bags for his coal. 
1933 Secretary: Donald Wise, 110 Pleasant '•'""' St.. Joliet. 111. 
Jack Finneran wrote as follows on June 24: 
Would you be kind enough to change my address to 2121 Cedar Ave., Bronx, N. Y. The change be­ing due to a recent matrimonial ven­eure on April 18 to Miss Marguerite Brennan at St. Patrick's Cathedral. Johnny Baldwin came in from Chi­cago to make sure that I had the very best available best man. For a while I thought that the fair colleens of 
N. Y. would not allow him to leave the city a bachelor, but he battled his way through the mass of damsels in Grand Central station. 
Maurice Mulville, '33, came down for the wedding — in another year he'll have his coveted M.D. from Tufts Medical. 
George Rohrs is still startling the financial district with his calling of every twin in a rather dull market. 
Frank "Gunner" McGee is kept busy examining divers bank state­ments but manages to get up to the Yankee Stadium on Saturday after­noon. He is Billy Sullivan's most ardent rooter for the American League batting championship. 
Chel Hoyt recently graduated from Fordham Law and is all set to take the N. Y. Bar in full stride. 
I met Ed Sargus outside at Min­sky's the other midnight but he claimed he was watching the revolv­ing news items on the N. Y. Times building. 
I hear from Don Wise quite fre­quently and he still is the tops for writing a letter that has more laughs than two dozen of our so-called comics. The Joliet appers ought to syndicate the young barrister's satir­ical philosophy — they'd make a for­tune. 
Neill "Soapy" Ebert visited me during February for a few days. He looked better than ever. After see­ing a few pictures of his boy, Danny, he has just reason for being a proud pop. He promised to be back soon. 
Johnny Baldwin was telling me that Charley Preston from Alaska has been having considerable trouble with an infected foot that kept him in­active for over a year. Let's hope it is all cleared up. 
How about some of that class of '33 breaking down and letting us know what they're doing. Vejar ought to come in with a report from coast. Ted Feldman should account for Breen and Gargaro, besides him­self. Roy McGovem has kept him­self quite a stranger these past few years. Tighe Woods ought to favor us with some of his journalistic abil­ity. I'd like to know Mark Dono­van's whereabouts so that I could write to him. Ed Leroux and Marion Blake ought to report for the south­west. Jack O'Shaughnessy should cover Chicago in his expert fashion. 
As for yours truly I am working as a trader for C. J. Devine & Co., specialists in U. S. government secur­ities. 
Richard Grimm, C.S.C. (B.S. E.E., '33), assisted by a group of other seminarians from Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C, on July 23 saved Eugene S. Leggett, 10 years old, from drowning in Deep Creek Lake, near Deer Park, Maryland, where the seminarians have a summer camp. Young Mr. Leggett, son of Eugene 
S. Leggett, of the National Emer­gency Council, and two companions were out on the lake in a sailboat when a storm blew up. Seeing the sailboat overturn, the seminarians put out in their own boat and Dick dove into the water to save young Leggett. The other boys were res­cued without difficulty. 
Other seminary students assisting in the rescue were Felix Duffy, C.S.C.; George Brown, C.S.C.; Den­nis Shugrue, C.S.C.; Louis Barcelo, C.S.C.; Jerome Lawyer, C.S.C.; Rob­ert Waide, C.S.C.; Bernard Niemeier, CS.C. 
After receiving his Ph.D. at Notre Dame this year, Tom Dorris is teach­ing chemistry at Manhattan College in New York City. 
1934 Secretarj-: James Moscow, 2320 N. Lawndale Ave., Chicaco, HI. 
Paul Manoski, who is on the staff of Our Sunday Visitor in Hunting­ton, Indiana, was on the campus for the K. of C. Boy Leadership course in the past Summer. 
Hugh Fitzgerald, of Brooklyn, is taking an active part in the organi­zation and operation of the First Voters League, "a non-partisan or­ganization of young people who will vote for the first time this Fall." It is planned to make the organization national in scope. 

October, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 29 Q.. ••••0 
f riBJy ' When you build, rebuild, or repair, these are the builders of the | I Greater Notre Dame. Call on them. | 
QtKtiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiii I iiiiiiiiiiii|||iiii,iiiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiit«|iiitii)i)>>liiiiitiiii>i>iiitiiiiiii>ili)ti'iii<iiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiliiii>i<itiiiiiiiiiiiiiii)uiiitMiitilllUliini<Htiii(MiHMiUMiii*MIIH*iiaMiUMi)HHQ 
Qllllai|iai||||lllt||||||||ttlllllll)«IIIIIIII|Ulllllllllltlt)>IIIIIItltlllllllltl)lllllllllll))MII1l(ill)IIIIIIII«IMIIIII<MaillllH>«MIIIIIII«M)llllllllll)tlMI>*ll)*ll*M)<IltilltllH*ltMllltlllllMIIIHIIIIMtllHMIIMttllltMlllltll*Q 
THOMAS L. MICKEY. Inc. 
Builder 

121 N. Hill St. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA Tel. 4-9241 
QitiiitiMaiii I mil •••••Mil I ••••iiiiiiiDiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii •intiiiimttiiiimimiiinmniiiimHiiiMiimiiiiiMMiiiiinitimimimwiiifil 
Ptitiimniiimmn • itiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiKtiiiimiiiiiiiiiitiiii IlKJ F]ttll>ltllltltllllllllllMllltttlllllltllltlllMlimill1IIIIHIIilllM»lllllll1IIHIIMMIIIIIIMIMtlllMIIMIIIMI|a 
EACH YEAR—A Larser and More Modern 
THE I. W. LOWER CO. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Established 1884 
WASHED SAND AND GRAVEL 
Used in the construction of new buildinss  
on the Campus furnished by the  I  I  Decorators  |  
I  I  Painting Contractors  |  
SOUTH BEND SAND AND GRAVEL CORPORATION  I I  *  I  
3113 Lincoln Way West  I  i  120 North Michigan St.  South Bend, Indiana  |  

QKMUI "" " '">l" »•' •"•" "•" I'"" niilllttllHIIU „•[•] Qllilltlll,,!!,,!!,,,,,,,,,,, l„,|t,,,IKll„„l „t„(i„„t,,,l„t,„,,tt ,t„„l„„l,,,„ „|«| 
ISJ,,iiiiii,iiit,ii iiMiiiiiiDi lotiiiiiiii IK,lit,I ,,i iii,iii,,ii„iiiiii„ii„,i„ FaT QUI,II,1111,111,,11,III i,,,i,,,ii,,ii,,,I,„,i,„„„•„„,„,,,„,Hi»iit,,>tM,i,,,»t„U„,tiM„,„„|i[S1 
Telephone 3-6)97 

SOUTH BEND LUMBER CO. 
1535 South Main Street 
HARRY D. ULLERY 
Coal and Coke Lumber 

Builder's and Mason's Supplies 
Millwork Building Supplies 
Automatic Coal Stokers i 319 South St. Peter St. South Bend, Indiana | PHONE 3-5156 
RIuiii*iiiniitiii)i<uiiitii)iiiiiiiiiiittiiMiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiitiiiitiitii)tiiittiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiii)Q [sliiiitiiiiiititiiiiKii ••MiittiiMiiiiiii 
Writing in regarding his alumni dues, Bill McCormick said that he had recently taken over the job of na­tional advertising manager of the Syracuse Herald in Syracuse, New York. He had been in Utica, New York. 
Ed Vyiral and his partner, Paul Dolenak, have recently opened new law oifices in Chicago, — at 2002 West 51st Street. 
Howard Flannery, according to his letter of July 2, has charge of the Ocean Beach office of the Long Is­land Lighting Company. Howard re­ported that his old roommate, Maur­ice Rigante, is running Maurie's mother's grocery store in Plainfield, New Jersey and that Frank Honer­kamp is busy in his father's ply-wood business. 
Dave Feferman is acting educa­tional adviser at Camp Los Prietos, a C.C.C. camp near Santa Barbara, California. Dave expects to have the camp's football team competing this Fall against the team from the East Side Social Center in Santa Barbara, which is in charge of Frank Cane, a boy guidance graduate of Notre Dame. 
Our Eastern office reports that Charlie Quinn is running his own oil business at 86 Jericho Turnpike, Mineola, Long Island, New York, and doing well. (See "Engagements" in this issue.) He resides at 187 Har­rison Avenue, Mineola. 
Andy Janis, according to recent word, is in the accounting division of the Philco Radio & Television Cor­poration in Detroit and is attending the University of Detroit night school. 
1935 Secretary: F. C. Hochreiter. Box 81. Notre Dame, Indiana. 
The Hoch crashes through for the 1936-37 year. As a starter he says: 
Yep, we're back at the center of activity again, right on the campus. Our "big town" sojourn proved en­lightening and gala, but, the charm of the Mid-West was too great. And, really, 'it's great to be back." 
During the summer months we worked in the office of a milling con­cern in Buffalo. Our noon hours were often occupied with class correspond­ence, and, as a result our desk was finally cleared of all dilatory answers. We are ready to start the year with a bang. 
As we write our things are not en­tirely unpacked, but, we recall but two letters throughout the hot days. One was from John Higgins. He was considering discontinuing his work at Dickenson and transferring to either Georgetown or some other Dixie in­stitution. 
Cliff (J. C.) Dudley finally broke The Notre Dame Alumnus 
down and wrote us just before our trip West. Cliff says that Dudley Dairy of Paducah is progressing, not­withstanding the treachery of the re­cent drought. He further informed us that Gene Witchger had spent some time with him during the sum­mer. 
At the moment we are living off-campus with Tom Proctor. The rea­son is two-fold: (1) Shortage of rooms at the University; (2) Tom's three-month persistence that we "bunk" with Hm. 
We learned from Jim Armstrong, upon our arrival, that Bob Roger* has left Columbia law school to take care of his father's hotel in Socka­way. The class of '35 extends its sincere condolences to Bob on the death of his father last July. 
John Brennan has returned to Notre Dame from Michigan. He has change d his professional outlook from the law and is now taking up work in the College of Science. 
It comes to our attention that Frank Sinnot has been considering leaving Fordham and studying his legal texts elsewhere. No confirma­tion on this has come through. 
While talking about lawyers, we hear, through our agencies, that John Cavanaugfa has released his hold upon Michigan and is at the present mo­ment hunting up another center of learning to continue his professional work. 
Over the week-end of September 20 several of the '35ers were on the campus. Barney Engliih Was the victim of our queries in the oaf and George Melinkovich took his grilling in Dillon Chapel vestibule. George is living in Chicago at the Harrison and working for the city. Art Carey was also seen on the campus. 
On registration day we found two of the "Dapper Dans'" of the class standing at the foot of the "great white stairs" of the Main Building. Both Bus Breen and John Allen were administering to the Freshman needs of their brothers who were getting established on the "right foot." Bus said he was returning to North­western. 
Louis Grosso is still holding the fort at Columbia. He put in many torrid hours at Summer School but came out unscathed. 
Bill Schmidt's bridge up at Rouses Point, New York seems to be taking shape and we understand that the "electrical - civil" en^neer will soon be returning to the Island. Our "wires" tell us that Bill has a special reason for wanting to get back to New York-
All of which brings us to the glad tidings we have on Jerry Cnshinc. His engagement has been announced. (Our felicitations, Jerry.) M.I.T. will see Jerry again this Fall. 
October. 1936 
And so we come to the end of our "overture-chatter." We again implore you to get the pen and paper out so that we may know what you are do­ing. Let's try to keep the column as big as it was last year. It can be if the cooperation continues as it has started. How about it? 
Walt Toussaint has recently changed his address from State Col­lege, Pennsylvania to Pittsburgh, 
P.O. Drawer 2038. Walt is now in the research department of the Gulf Research and Development Com­pany. 
Nick Vairo is learning the printing business with the Cuneo Press in Chi­cago, one of the biggest in the coun­try, and reports good progress to date. Nick and his wife are now residing at 4736 North Maiden Ave­nue, Chicago. 
Bill Toumey, of the New York Daily News staff, and a feminine co­worker, Frances Kilkenny, consti­tuted themselves as a couple of human guinea pigs this Summer to test the wearibility of "shlongs" (a combination of shorts and long pants) in Yonkers, where there was an anti-shorts ordinance. They had a lot of fun with the police and wrote several features. And Doctor Cooney just adored those pictures of BiU in "shlongs." 
Earl Spencer Walton, of Misha­waka, and Art Sandusky, South Bend, passed the Indiana bar exams in July and were admitted to practice on September 1. 
Jordon Hargrove is with Kenyon & Eckhardt, Inc., advertising agency in New York. He writes: "Jim Mc-Devitt, '35, has been working on Fisher^s Island, off the end of Long Island, all summer and I expect to see him back in town again. Sigmund Slnszka, who was in Poland last year on a scholarship came home in July, only to return again to Poland in August for further study at the Uni­versity of Warsaw." 
Frank Holahan had a lot of '35 dope when he wrote some time ago from Philadelphia. He said: 
I was placed some time ago as as­sistant national bank examiner in the Third Federal Reserve District, which includes Pennsylvania, lower New Jersey, and Delaware. 
I have met several of the N. D. boys in the past few weeks in my ramblings. Jim Coll and Andy Di­neen are attending Jefferson Medical School here in Philadelphia. Ray Broderiek and Jack Matthews are both at Penn Law School. Ned Rowan is attending Georgetown Law School, but seems inclined to go to Penn in the Fall. I met him when getting on a train in Washington a few weeks ago, and saw a lot of him while work­

Q l • Itllllllltll tllltllllt lllltlllllMIt I llllllttlltMIIIMIM ••H ig.i 
BUILDING MATERIAL— 
WHENEVER NEED 
YOU 

A complete quality line of Bmlding Material for com­
mercial, industrial, and home construction. 
Lathing 

QUALITY FUELS— 
Plastering SCHUYLER ROSE Guaranteed Coals give uniform dependable and trouble-free Heat—they are carefully selected to serve you belter. 
— FAIRBANKS - MORSE — 
E. F. CRAMER 

AUTOMATIC COAL BURNERS Contractor 
SCHUYLER ROSE 
617 W. LaSalle Ave. Tel. 3-8100 
Coal—Coke—Building Material South Bend, Indiana 
"Palcbwork Solicited" South Bend Mishawaka 
QlKlltlll) IIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllll 
••Q 
«s 

lllllllltlllllllllllllllltllllllllllltlll I imiiiiiimimmiiMUHMitMimntMiMiiiiiiMMiMiiMiiimniiiiitMiitiiiiifSI 
••a 

Beaver "P/osfisized" Piaster SUCCESS 
Used in Notre Dame's to greater building Great Construction Program program of Notre Dame 
BUILDS FINE, STRAIGHT, TRUE WALLS Quality—Endurance—Durability 
OIney J. Dean Steel Co. 
REINFORCING STEEL 
Certain-teed Products Corp. 
105 West Adams Street 

Chicago James R. Martin, '23 i Chicago, Illinois 
Q.. ..Q B" ..Q 
(jjiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiii-.miiiitii tiiiitiitiiiiiiiiiMtititiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiDtiii iiiitniitiimiiii>ii«nnmitini>m>mi«inmmtiniuintMitmiiMiiiMmii>i'pl 
I Meet Your Old Friends at the GOEDERT HARDWARE COMPANY 
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG 
BUILDER'S HARDWARE 
1 327 North Michigan St. for [ 
Cavanaugh Hall and Infirmary Building 
1 Take a trip to "Miami"— 1105 Holley Court Oak Park, III. [
1 Good Food and Excellent Beer 
MIAMI CAFE 
BOB PAUL 1 1 Opposite Hoffmann Hotel 
MclNERNY & SWEENEY 
PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE 
THE PHILADELPHIA 
228 N. Main St. (Just North of City Hall) [ 1 "HOME OF PURITY" 
Offering a fine selection of imported and Domestic | 1 Gathering place for generations of Notre Dame men Wines and Liquois | 1 116 North Michigan St. Open 8-1 a. m.; Sat. 8-2 a. m. Phone 4-4725 | ......M^— «.—»—i 
ing in Wilkes-Barre and Scranton durins the past five weeks. I had lunch with Walt Brown in Hazleton, Pennsylvania, a few days asro. He is still among the unemployed, and in­forms me that Ray Margrett is in the same position. I see Phil Heinle once in a while when he can get away from his books at Stevens Tech where he is taking engineering. All of the above are lads of '35. 
John J. "Gunner" McGrath, famed for his marksmanship and '3.5 cap­tain of the Notre Dame rifle team, visited the campus on his way home to Sedalia, Missouri. He reported that while engaged in a rifle meet in the East he was approached by an emissary of one of the warring Span­ish factions and offered $25 a day and expenses as a sniper. 
Ray Bambenek, Winona, Minne­sota, who begins liis second year at Haiward Law school, also stopped over for a day while on his way East. 
193 G Secretary: Thnm;is .1. Miirphv. 15 Mill St.. X.'ivpirt. U. I. From devious sources come devious notes on the activities of the '36 men. A compilation of these shows that: 
Francis Joyce is working for the duPont Rayon Company, in Buffalo. New York, and John Norton is with the Steelier Lithogi-apher Company, in Rochester, New York. 
John Gorman is with the Ball Band plant in Mishawaka, and Har­old Stine is working for duPont in Flint, Michigan. 
J. Dennis Swords is working on a constmction - installation job at the Chicago plant of the General Chemi­cal Company, and Ray Herrly is help­ing building Panda Briquets in Min­neapolis. 
Johnny Moran, erstwhile Scholantic editor, has turned G-man and is a deputy collector of internal revenue in New York City. He gets around a lot and should produce plenty of news for the ALUMXUS. 
Joe Prendergast, managing editor of the Scliola.itic last year, was a councillor at Camp Hodgkins, Hay­denville, Massachusetts, this Summer but was on the verge of a newspaper job in early September. 
Spots Manning is with the Inter­national Haiwester Company, in Du­buque, Iowa, according to Prender­gast's inforamtion. 
Johnny Michuta is director of ath­letics in West Bend High School, West Bend, Wisconsin, a Milwaukee suburb. 
Wayne Millner has signed with the Boston Redskins for the 1936 season, and Ken Stilley is head coach in .A.Ilentown, Pennsylvania. 
Mike Layden is with the Indiana 

Summer Brings Many Alumni Visitors 
Lay Retreat and Resistration Help To Swell Number On Campus 
The University in general and the Alumni Oflice stafF in particular were glad to welcome an unusually large number of alumni to the campus in the Summer just past. These in­cluded (with apologies to those that the local Winchells didn't spot): 
Slip JIadigan, '20, St. JIary's Cal­ifornia, with his family; Fi-ank Van -•\llen, '34, with his wife on their honeymoon; Martin Wider, '31, De­troit; .Jerry Holland, '25, Detroit; William Byrne, '29, San Francisco; Joe Wilk, '31, Adams, Massachusetts, with his wife on their honeymoon. 
Ed Ryan, '27, and Joe O'Donnell, '27, Chicago; Father Bourke Motsett, '31, Canton, Illinois, and Ralph Dal­ton, '31, Bloomington, Illinois; Bill Darrow, '32, and Leo McLaughlin, '32, New York City; Virgil Fagan, '25, Oak Park, Illinois; Jeriy Arnold, '24, Pittsburgh, with his wife. 
Richard C. Miller, '24, New York City, with Jim Meehan, '24, South Bend; Art Becvar, '33, Cleveland; Tom Quigley, '29, Shenandoah, Penn­sylvania; Julius Danch, '25, Gaiy, In­diana; John Carbine, '35, Rutland, Vermont; Forest Swartz, '26, and Bill Burkhardt, '35, Akron, Ohio; Richard 
W. Giroux, '31, Mu.skegon Heights, Michigan; Gene Blish, '34, Denver. 
Tony Ceres, '2S, Perth .A.mboy, New Jersey; John Campbell, '26, Al­bany, New York; Al Diebold, '27, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Ed Cos-grove, '34, with Father Vince Bren­nan, '32, Pittsburgh; Gerry Le Strange, '27, New Rochelle, New York, with his cousin, Tom, who is now a Freshman; Jim Wade, '33, 
Bell Telephone Company in Indian­apolis and Henry Pojman, Bill Shake­speare and Wally Fromhart are as­sistant freshman coaches at Notre Dame. 
Marty Peters is head coach at St. Teresa's High School in Decatur, Illi­nois, and George Wentworth is coach­ing at Mexico High School in Mexico, Maine. 
Butch Pfefferle and Don Elser, to­gether with Layden, Petei-s, Shake­speare, Millner and Fromhart were on the squad selected for the AU-Star game in Chicago on September 
1. And, of course, the other Layden was one of the assistant coaches for the All-Star squad. 
Ted Prekowitz is in the Law School and president of the Villagers. He was recently elected president of the Tulsa, Oklahoma; Harold Klein, '26, Des Moines, Iowa, with his wife; Ed McClarnon, '28, Detroit. 
The Lay Retreat, from August 6 to 9, brought the following, among many other alumni: John Bergan, '31, South Bend; Louis Bruggner, '23, South Bend; Paul Butler, '27, South Bend; Jim Digan, '29, Logansport, In­diana; Fi-ancis Dunn, el. '22, Joliet, Illinois; Stephen B. Fleming, '93, Fort Wayne, Indiana; Norman Hart­zer, '29,"South Bend; Elbert Mahon­el, '26, Indianapolis; Leo Mclntyre, '28, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania; Ed. McKeown, '28, Chicago; Joseph Mo­ran, '30, Tulsa, Oklahoma; Joe Nyi­kos, '23, South Bend; Dan O'Connor, '05, Chicago; Bill O'Malley, '31, Chi­cago; Joe Sexton, '26, Indianapolis; George Thomas, '27, Willoughby, Ohio; Bernie VoU, '17, South Bend; Bill Voor, '25, South Bend; John Wallace, '27, Calumet City, Illinois. 
Registration days, September 15 and 16, saw another large group of alumni on the campus with sons, nephews, brothers, friends. Some of these were Bill Kelleher, '15, Lorain, Ohio, whose two boys are Freshmen this year; Dan Shouvlin, '14, Spring­field, Ohio, whose son is a Freshman also; Billy Ryan, '10, Cleveland, whose son is a Sophomore; Frank J. Butler, e.x. '94, and Bob Butler, '34, Cleveland, to enter the last of a long line of Notre Dame Butlers; Tom Cannon, '33, Muncie, Indiana, with his Freshman brother; Fred Mancuso, ex. '24, Kansas City, iMissouri; Father Keith Roche, '26, Havana, Illinois; Bill Reisert, ex. '29, Louisville. 
Catholic Youth Organization centi-al council in St. Joseph county. 
Hugh Wall is in Washington, D.C., in the law oflices of Frank J. Albus in the Earle Building. 
Ed Epler is with the Gaiy, Indi­ana, works of the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corpoi-ation as an apprentice metallurgist. 
Editor Emeritus Moran had dinner not long ago with Bud Goldman and Frank Murray. Bud is doing some free lance radio writing for New York stations and Frank is going to medical school at Cornell. Moi-an reported that Lin Phoebus is selling insurance in good old Cumberland, Maiyland. 
Norman L. Johnson, '36, is work­ing for the South Bend Tribune as night police reporter. 








