The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
NOTRE OAME 

AUG 13 1958 
Vol. 36 • No. 5 
nUMANITIES LIBRARY 
Aiig. - Sept.  
1958  
James E. Armstrong, '25  
Editor  
Exqiiisite receptacle  for relic of  
St Bemadette, inspired by Gold­ 
John F. Laughlin, '48 Managing Editor  en Dome and sent by Notre Dam 3 Club of Borne to Lourdes Confra­ternity on campus (see story: "NJ). Club of Eternal City").  \  

ALSO IN THIS ISSUE: 
•
 Chapter Two of "U.N.D. .. Night, 1958"­

•
 Rundown on a Record Reunion 

•
 Commencement Addresses, Highlights 

•
 Presenting the Class of '58 




ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
DEATH TAKES DEAN McCARTHY. 


BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
PROFESSOR FRANK J. SKEELER 
In tlie past few months death has claimed two men who together ser\'ed the University for more than fifty years. 
James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce for 32 years, died July 11 in Presbyterian Hospital, Chi­cago, after a verj* brief illness. 
Mr. McCarthy was appointed Dean Emeritus of Notre Dame October 11, 1955. He joined tlie Notre Dame faculty in 1921 as Instructor in Foreign Trade, and was appointed Dean of the College of Commerce in 1923. 
Under his guidance the enrollment of the College of Commerce more than quadrupled with nearly 1,400 young men presently studying in its de­partments of business administration, accounting, finance and marketing. Academic development in the College of Commerce has been marked with the establishment of the Outdoor Adver­tising Foundation, the Archbishop O'Hara Seminar Lectures, the AVorld Trade Conference, and the Experi­mental Program for Administrators. 
A forceful speaker. Dean Emeritus McCarthy was recognized as one of the nation's top experts in tlie fields of domestic and foreign commerce. He was a director of the First Bank and Trust Company and the Associates In­vestment Company, South Bend; the Advertising Council, Inc., New York; and the Gerity-Michigan Corporation. 
Graduated from Columbia Univer­sity in 1916, he was the author of The Physical Assets of the State of Indi­ana and the Earnings and Distribution 
IN MEMORIAM JAMES E. MCCARTHY 
The University of Notre Danie is shocked and grieved to learn of the sudden death of James £. McCarthy. During his 36 years on the Notre Dame faculty of the College of Com­merce, 32 of them as its Dean, he had made thousands of friends among students, alumni, parents and the broad world of business and in­dustry with which the training of the College of Commerce deals. His death is a personal loss to all who enjoyed the benefits of his leadership and example and the strong and im­pressive personality which accom­panied it. 
—Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., Acting President 

of Income of Indiana Corporations. 
Dean McCarthy was bom in Holy­oke, Mass., in 1896. In 1927 he mar­ried Dorotliy Hoban in Chicago. Mrs. McCarthy survives, as do three sons,­Edward D., '50; James B., '49, and Kevin; a daughter, two brothers, a sister and eight grandchildren. 
Requiem Mass was celebrated July 14 in St. Patrick's Church by Rev. Joseph Corcoran, G.S.C., pastor. 
A dedicated teacher who willingly gave of himself and his talents died May 16. Since 1943 as an assistant professor of electrical engineering at Notre Dame and for eighteen years at St. Edward's College, Austin, Texas, Frank J. Skeeler, native of Orange, Te.x., devoted 33 years of his life to serving his students and colleagues. 
Professor Skeeler was graduated from Texas A. and M. College and did ex­tensive graduate work at that institu­tion, Chicago University and the Uni­versity of Texas. During World AVar I he served as a teacher at Officer's Training School, Fort Monroe, Va., and later with tlie Engineering Corps in Galveston, Tex. 
Requiem Mass was celebrated in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, by Rev. Lawrence G. Broestl, C.S.C., on May 19. Burial was in Orange, Tex., after services in St. Mary's Church. His widow, Mrs. Helen Skeeler of South Bend, survives, as does the ex­ample of this able Christian scholar in the lives of all who experienced his sense of humor and teaching skill. 
Officers 

J. PATRICK CANNY, '28 Honorary President pRiVNCis L. LA^-DEN, '36 President ; EDMO.XD R. HACGAB, '38 
Club Vice-President 

EUGENE M . KENNEDY, '22 Class Vice-President *• OSCAR J. DORWIN, '17 : : .. Fund Vice-President * JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary 
Directors to 1959 

FR.\NCIS L. LAYDE.N', '36 701 College Highway, Evansville, Ind. , 
EDMOND R. HAGGAB, '38 Haggar Company ''• 6113 Lcmman Avenue, Dallas, Texas 
EUGENE M . KENNEDY, '22 •"• 174 S. Mansfield Avenue Los Angeles 36, Calif. 
OSCAR J. DOR\VIN, '17 Texas Company ' " 135 E. 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y. 

Directors to 1960 

LEO J. VOGEL, '17 286 Magnolia Place, Pittsburgh 28, Pa. 
RAYMOND W. DURST, '26 840 Lathrop Ave., River Forest, 111. 
JULES K. DE LA VERGNE, '33 413 Pore Marquette Bldg. New Orleans, Louisiana 
WILLIAM E. COTTER, JB., '41 114 Laurie St., Duluth 3, Minnesota 

Directors to 1961 

JOSEPH R. STEWART, '22 Kansas City Life Iiuurance Co. Box 139 Kansas City 41, Missouri 
CHARLES E. ROHR, '30 Rohr's, 1111 Chester, Cleveland, Ohio 
JAMES H . SHEILS, '35 McManus and Walker 39 Broadway, Neiv York, New York JOHN C. O'CONNOR, '38 1000 Fidelity Trust Bldg. Indianapolis, Indiana 

Chairmen of the 1958 Committees 
-I 

F. L. LAYDE.N Executive 
E. R. HAGOAB Club Activities ' 
E. M. KEN.XEDY Class Activities 
O. J. DORWIN '­
Alumni Fund, Foundation and Gifts 

E. R. H,\GGAB Preparatory Schools •" 
L. J. VoGEL Placement and Job Counseling 
J. K. DE L,\ VEUC.XE .... Inter-Alumni Affairs "" 
E. M. KENNEDY 
Prestige and Public Relations <• 

W. E. COTTER Religion and Citizenship 
E. R. HAGGAR AND 
E. M. KENNEDY Nominations 

R. W. DURST Budget and Finance '' j 
L. J. VOGEL Resolutions 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the tjnivcrsitj- of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind. under the act o( Aug. 24, 1912. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 
edit the ReUgious Bulletin, has been serving as assistant director of admis­

N.D. Religious Superior, 
sions and assistant professor of philos­ophy at the University. In earlier years he was coordinator of summer conven­

Vice-Presidents Named 
tions. He began his studies for the 
The appointment of a religious superior and two vice-presidents at the > University of Notre Dame was an­
nounced recently 'b y Rev. Theo­, dore J. Mehling, -^^^'-l 
C.S.C.J provin­cial superior of the Holy Cross "Fathers. The vobediences of 438 priests and 
" Brothers wer e Father Grimm 
, read in Sacred Heart Church at the conclusion of a triennial Provincial 'Chapter on the Notre Dame campus. ^ Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C, was named superior of the Holy Cross > priests and Brothers associated with the University. He succeeds Rev. Theodore ' M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, whose term as ^superior was Umited to sbc years by canon law. Father Hesburgh was re­
^ appointed Notre Dame president last April. A native of Peoria, 111., Father Grimm has served as assistant superior and professor of religion at Notre Dame since 1953. 
Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C, head of Notre Dame's English department since 1953, has been appointed vice­
> president for academic affairs. He suc­ceeds Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C, 
'"who will serve as academic assistant to the president. Father Soleta is a native of South Bend, Ind., and a specialist in 
•critical theory ^and the English literature of the 
.. Romantic period. Rev. George 
C. Bernard, ^CS. C w a s named vice­
-"president for student affairs at Fa'''" Soleta Notre Dame succeeding Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C, who becomes director of the University of Portland (Ore.) 
••Foundation. Father Bernard, who was bom in Springfield, III., has been serv­ing as an assistant professor of religion 
*and rector of Stanford Hall on the campus. 
Rev. Glenn R. Boarman, C.S.C, also a native of Springfield, 111., was ap­pointed Notre Dame's prefect of re­ligion. A member of the philosophy 
faculty, he succeeds Rev, Charles 
Carey, C.S.C, who will resume teach­
ing at the University. 
Other Holy Cross priests receiving new appointments at Notre Dame in­clude Rev. Ferdi- ^5!':5T'T?3ii nand Brown, C.S.C, assistant religious superi­or; Rev. John H. Wilson, CS.C, administrative assistant to the president; an d Rev. Robert Father Bernard 
Lochner, C.S.C. assistant prefect of religion. Father Grimm, who holds an electri­cal engineering degree from Notre Dame, entered the novitiate of the Holy CrQss Fathers in 1929. He joined the Notre Dame faculty following his ordination in 1937. From 1941 to 1950 he was superior of HcJy Cross Seminar)' on the S^'r^^^ii^ ' • f-^S campus and from f' 1950 to 1953 he was prefect of religion at Notre Dame. Father Soleta 
joined tlie Notre 
Dame faculty in 
1946 after re­Father Boarman 
ceiving his doctorate at Yale Univer­sity. He entered Holy Cross Seminary in 1929 and was graduated from Notre Dame in 1938. He was ordained to the priesthood in 1942. He is a member of the Modem Language Association and the National Council of Teachers of English. 
Father Bernard, a specialist in moral theolog)', began teaching at Notre Dame in 1952 after receiving a doc­torate in sacred theology from the Catholic University of America, Wash­ington, D. C He enrolled at Notre Dame as a layman in 1939 and entered the Holy Cross Fathers' novitiate in 1942. He was graduated from Notre Dame in 1945 and was ordained four years later. He has served as rector of Breen-Phillips and Stanford Halls on the campus and is a member of the American Catholic Theological Society. 
Father Boarman, who will coordinate religious activities on the campus and priesthood in 1941, was graduated from Notre Dame in 1946, and was ordained in 1950. He received a master of arts degree from St. Louis University in 1952 and joined the Notre Dame faculty the same year. 
Father Brown, a native of Ports­mquth, Ohio, has been a member of Notre Dame's mathematics faculty since 1946. He began his studies for the priesthood at Notre Dame in 1930 and holds three degrees, including a doctorate, from the University. He was ordained in 1942. He has been serving as rector of Walsh Hall on the campus. 
Father Wilson, bom in Chicago, was graduated from Notre Dame and the Kent College of Law, Chicago. He has served as associate editor of The Catholic Boy and as director of voca­tions and assistant director of province development for the Holy Cross Fathers. He entered the novitiate in 1934 and was ordained in 1941. 
SPIRITUAL 
LEADERSHIP 

As this is written, we are unbe­
lievably involved in international 
crisis. Possibly we have been 
weak. Our Lady at Lourdes (the 
Immaculate Concepton is the Pa­
troness of the U.S.) and Our 
Lady at Fatima asked us to pray. 

Our fellow alumnus. Father Pat­
rick Peyton, has brought Mary 
and the Rosary to the world with 
amazing zeal. But if almost 
30,000 Notre Dame alumni would 
storm Heaven each day with al­

most a million and a half Hail 
Marys (multiplied by family, by 
friends, and by example), we 
might form a bridge over which 
the Russian people could still 

come from Communism to Christ. 
Certainly, if we have not de­
served world peace, this bridge 

will take Notre Dame men more 
safely to the peace that Our 

Lord promised us.—JEA 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 

Congratulations 
Congratulations to Honorable Michael 

A. Stepovich, Jr., L'43. Governor of tlie newest and largest state — Alaska. 

Professor Richter Retires 

Professor Elton E. Richter will re­tire on August 31, 1958 upon com­pletion of 31 years as a member of the facult)' of the Notre Dame Law School. At the conclusion of his last class, just as the bell rang, the faculty and xartually the entire student body" crowded into the classroom to express their affection for Professor Richter and wish him well. A few days later he and Mrs. Richter were the guests of honor at a dinner at the Morris Inn attended by all the faculty and their wives and by representatives of tlie Administration. Dean O'Meara and Father Moore spoke of Professor Richter's contribution to the Notre Dame Law School. In the course of his remarks Dean O'Meara said: "Many men win fame and fortune. Only a few u-in the enduring affection of their associates. Elton Richter be­longs to that select minorit)'." 
The editors of the Notre Dame Lawyer dedicated the May issue to 
Noire Dame Alumnus, August-September, 

Professor Richter in recognition of his long and devoted ser\'ice. 


New Officers and Directors 

Roger P. Brennan, '33, of Jones, Day, Cockley &; Reavis, Cleveland, Ohio, was re-elected president of the Notre Dame Law Association at the spring meeting of.the Association's directors. Also re-elected were: Honorary Presi­dent, Norman J. Barry, L'48, of Roths­child, Hart, Stevens & Barry, Chicago; Executive Secretary, Thomas L. Mur­ray, L'5I, of Seebirt, Oare & Deahl, South Bend, Indiana. Other • officers chosen at the same time are: Vice-President, William E. Bradbury, L'16, of Bradbury & Bradburj', Robinson, Illinois: .Secretar)'-Treasurer, Rajmond 
W. Troy, L'37, of Lum, Fairlie & Foster, Newark, New Jersey. 
New directors of the Association, elected in a canvas of the membership by mail, include Albert G. Monacelli, '34, of Dunnington, Bartholow & Mil­ler,' New York, N. Y., and William T. Huston, L'51 of Riley & Hall, Los Angeles, California. 
Directors previously elected ahd con­tinuing in office are, in addition to the officers: John M. Crimmins, L'33, As­sistant Chief Counsel, Koppers Com­])any. Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania: Circuit Judge Edward H. Fenlon, L'33, Petoskey, Alichigan; George H. Gore, L'48, of Saunders, Curtis, Ginestra & Gore, Fort Lauderdale, Florida; James 
' P. Swift, L'24, Vice-President and General Counsel, Southwestern Life Insurance Company, Dallas, Texas; and Michael L. Hines, L'48, of Las Vegas, Ne\'ada. 

Prize Winners 

The Lawyers Title Award, provided annually by The Lawyers Title Insur­ance Corporation of Richmond, Vir­ginia, to the student selected by the facult)' for excellence in the law of real propert)', was presented this year to Mr. Edward N. Denn of Utica, New York. Mr. Denn also received the HojTies Award, founded in 1916 by former Dean Hoynes. Mr. Denn was Editor-in-Chief of the Notre Dame Lawyer for 1957-58 and will ser\'e next year as law clerk for Judge Charles Fahy of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. 
The Farabaugh Prize, given annually by Honorable Gallitzan A. Farabaugh, L'07, was awarded to Mr. John F. Murray of Elmira, New York. Mr. MuiTay wDl be working next year in tlie Tax Department of the Depart­
1958 
ment of Justice. He was selected for 
this position under the Attorney Gen­
eral's Recruitment Program for Law «• 
Honor Graduates. 
The Harry English Award, estab-' 

lished under the will of the late Harr)' -^. 
English of Decatur, Illinois, was pre­
sented to Mr. Eugene F. Waye of 
Levittown, Pennsylvania. Mr. Waye 
was Associate Editor of the Notre 
Dame Lawyer for 1957-58 and next < 
year will ser\'e as law clerk for Chief 
Judge John Biggs, Jr. of the United '^ 
States Court of Appeals for the Third 
Circuit. 
The Law Week Award, provided by < 
the Bureau of National Affairs, Inc., 
Washington, D. C , went to Mr. Ed-" 
Avard B. Bartoli of LaSalle, Illinois. ^, 
Mr. Bartoli was top man in his class 
for 1957-58. ' 
All of the prize winners received 
the LL.B. degree on June 1. 
4­
Moot Court 

The Appellate Court of Indiana,*' sitting in two divisions of three judges each, heard the argument in the semi­final round of the 1958-59 Moot.,. Court Competition on Monday eve­ning, April 28. Superior Court Judge •*' John Ryan, '41, of Indianapolis, sat in place of one of the Appellate Court judges who was prevented by illness from attending. 
The students participating in the semi-final round were: Thomas M. ^ Crehan of California, James A. Durkin of Illinois, Kosma J. Glavas of Ohio,* Jerome M. LjTies of New Jersey, Arthur J. Perr)' of Indiana, Altero J. Alteri of Michigan, Dana C. Devoe of ^ Maine, Robert P. Mone of Ohio and Milton V. Munk, Jr. of Pennsylvania. * Messrs. Alteri, Devoe, Mone and^ Munk were adjudged the winners. They will take part in the final round ­of the competition this fall. The court at that time will be presided over by Mr. Justice Minton of the Supreme,. Court of the United States. 

Association Meeting in Los Angeles 

A luncheon meeting of the Notre Dame Lav.- Association will be held in Los Angeles in connection with the-annual meeting of the American Bar Association. The luncheon has been scheduled for Thursday, August 23 at^' the Jonathan Club. Mr. William T. Huston, L'51, recently elected a direc­tor of the Association, is in charge of arrangements. All Notre Dame men 
(Continued on Page 27) 
/l 

this projection is rooted in the recorJ of confidence in all the eras that have 
ZAUo^Ud eommenU ""^"^ 
Alumni Secretary gone before us. And our pride in our 
How about something pleasant this time? 
I feel pleasant. The 1958 Reunions were the larg­est, by a wide 
• margin, in our ^ history. Aside from the usual 
» two or three careless in­c i d e n t s, the 1,10 0 alumni enjoyed — and 
James E. Armstrong 

- if they meant what they said, then I mean enjoyed 
— c\ne of our best Reunion programs. But that is not what I feel pleasant about. The association was 90 years old this ., year. And the reorganization to per­manent activity occurred 50 years ago. 
Key to our real pattern, however, was the establishment 35 years ago, in 1923, of the Alumni Office, the Alumni 
• Magazine, and the Alumni Secretar)'. 
This was done in the presidency of " Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C, '03, . and under the able executive pioneer­
ing of Alfred C. Ryan, '20, first Secre­tar)' and Editor. 
Historic ^foment 
Father 'Walsh and Al Ryan were 

• both on hand at the Alumni Banquet to accept the modest plaques that marked the anniversar)'. Time permit­ted nothing except the minimum sym­bol of what their past had contributed 
' and what their presence meant. , . But to me — and I believe to all the thousand present in the banquet 
- hall, inciluding the youngest Class of 1953 — there was a dwamic quality in this moment of history that re­
^ wrote, in the minds of those present, the pleasant and glorious pages of Notre Dame's past, and gave validity to the present and future that Father Hesbui^h had painted in his special Convocation address. 
So many things are spotlighted in history that the spotlight often takes / away the significance of the span. When a moment comes that recaptures this 
' sweep, and gives us the perspective of our progress, it cannot help but enrich us all. 
The history of Notre Dame, and to quite an extent the history of the Alumni Association, is familiar to most of you. I am feeling too pleasant (and let's pause to stress the pleasant as against the complacent) to echo de­tails. 
But as we sat looking over the wall-to-wall thoiisand wonderful graduates filling the magnificent new dining hall, where the Minims playfield once echoed, fresh from the scope of the University's new program of develop­ment as outlined by its present Presi­dent, you could feel the awe of those who remembered the beginnings. 
But the pleasant feeling that has stayed with me is the feeling that there was awe in all the alumni for the work, the planning, the vision, the leadership, in the years when plant, resources, per­sonnel and public were a much smaller and less glamorous world. 
Sqmehow or other as you met these men at this Reunion — men among the 1908 and 1913 Classes pardcularly 
—
 who had launched our Metropolitan Clubs and steered a precarious en­trance for our teams into major compe­tition; as you heard them temper humor with genuine respect as they talked of old teachers and the lasting influence qf these men on alumni lives 

—
 you began to see the part of our house that God built, and why we have not built in vain. 


It is always pleasant — impressively so in this record-breaking attendance year — to see the rich and real fellow­ship. Men who had not seen eacli other for twenty or thirty years, men meeting other Class members they had never seen, found a ready fraternity that the Greeks do not even have a letter for. 
Permanent Progress? 

Our performance'as alumni has been rewarding to the University and to our­selves, and this was reflected in the many expressions of the Reunion. We have done well, individually and col­lectively. 
Only one unpleasant thought in­trudes itself on this starry reverie— we may be facing a just penance for just pride. As the Reunion weekend heard mqre and more voices, outlining the stature that we have achieved and the larger outlines ahead, I became more impressed that the confidence of past and our present is completely cc(n­tingent on our confidence in the per­manence of our progress. 
We may relax and we may review and we may rejoice, but we can never rest. I am feeling so pleasant in this 1958 aftermath that I am happy to go back to work. 

The 1958 Centenary of OUR LADY OF LOURDES 

6HOTTO: Throughout the Lourdes Centenary Year every visit to the Grotto merits these indulgences ac­corded by the Holy See: 
1.
 A Plenary bidulgence is grant­ed for each visit made by a group (5 or 6) of the faithful who have duly confessed their sins and re­ceived Communion, and who pray' for the intention of the Holy Father (PATER, AVE. GLORIA). A single : family could be considered a group.. 

2.
 A Partial Indulgence of seven years is granted to any individual who visits the Grotto with suitable dispositions of mind and heart (PATER, AVE, GLORIA). 


CONFBATEHNrry: Other Indul­gences can be gained lliroughout yoiu' lifetime by membership in the Confraternity of the Immaciilate Conception of Our Lady of Lourdes . at Notre Dame. Benefits include : Lourdes water, intentions in Mass every Saturday on the campus, and a Plenary Indulgence under the or­dinary conditions (Confession, Com­munion, etc.) on the day of admis­sion, at the hour of death, and each year on several feasts of the Blessed Virgin plus, by recent Vatican deci­sion, the Feast of SL Bemadette, Feb. 18. 
To obtain LOURDES 'WATER 
from the Shrine in France, 
write to: 
LOURDES Notre Dame 5, Indiana 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1938 5, 

wa^Si^^^^ 
M 



' pi-^%,
^1 
\ 

r of the ^^ ^ i 
^ 
^<a-*aiifA»<^i?*<ri;»'gft^^ 

'S^^^^^fS^ 
m

'^-: 

The unusual reliquarj- fashioned for a first | 
class relic of St. Bcmadcttc and presented to 
Father Schaerf and his Confraternity of the 
Immaculate Conception (left), a treasured let­
ter of acceptance from a distinguished honoi^ 
arj- alunmus and Notre Dame Slan-of-thc-Year 
(left, below) arc just twc? ] 
indications of the d}'namic 
activity of the Notre DamtT | 
Club of Rome, Italy. 
•r;KHiSS!.--. 

iS|^^> 
\958 

18, prV^ 
N..*'"°-' 

O* i^".' « 
» 

tfcS" a*'"^ 
.d4=* 
P
jd»w efS' cr*"' 

jOi'''' rjcrt ' A**' 
f»' 
.?t<=' 
^958, .^ti^ \6l 

rf^°"' . C^'*' cce?^ 
. 4»« ' 

,^^»'"' l^i""' 
iet>^^ 

re<4»" Uti^" 4»«° »a«>^" 
«crs>« 

.iSJ'i'^'" «*='dW 
AC*?'-' ,\u^­
tf''

^\c<»°' ;t*^* ,u\4'>° 
,l»"^' ot'*" .•VVoti"' 
0(1''="='' 

troio' '
^rcs'"' 

01*"= ^W'* 6^= »^so 
.s\>W' 
dcs'^ ^t^' 
.«*'='•' 
Other activities of recent months in­clude brightening the last days of * 
ott'' 

,r'l»" jtid 
Cardinal Stritch; inviting his successor 
..«dcn^ 

^^("•^ »t»"" 
ctn»' 
in Rome, the brilliant Cardinal Aga-^ 

Vlvs !>»' 
,nd'° ' gianian, to be an honorary alumnus 
,vo5° 1 «=»'•' 
and featured speaker on U.N.D. Night;'' 

asVo"^ cO*" 
isu 

.i„c W welcoming parties for N.D.-St. Mary's students in Europe and visiting foot-V 
,dK 




^'^^ 

o»' ball stars Dan Shannon and Joe Heap; and a St. Patrick's Day party for which everything was colored Kelly green but the waters of the Tiber. 
•?'j»r»^°r.v^=* 
XOC* Vi» fiO' 
it=^* 

Special audience granted by Pius XH to officers of the Notre Dame Club of Rome on the occasion of presenting to His Holiness docu­ments of honorary membership in the Rome Club as well as the first annual Man-of-the-Year Award. The Holy Father received an hon­orary degree from Notre Dame in 1936 as Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli, Papal Secretary of State. Left to right: Rev. Edward L. Heston, C.S.C., '28, Chaplain; First Vice President George Gleason, '36; His Holiness, Pius XH; Club President Warren J. Ashley, '33; Second 
Vice President Joseph P. Devinc, '55, and Secretary-Treasurer Vincent G. McAloon, '34. 
• (M 
#?* 
Cardinal Agagianian addresses the Rome Club on Universal Notre Dame Night, 1958. On the dais (1. to r.) are Father Heston, Joe Devine; Very Rev. Christopher J. O'TooIe, C.S.C., Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross; Jerry Ashley; His Eminence Cardinal Gregory XV Peter Agagianian, Patriarch of the Armenians in Cilicia; Brother Etienne Cooper, C.S.C., assbtant headmaster of Notre Dame International School; George Gleason and Vince AIcAloon. 
Gifts for the Holy Father 

included this music box 
which plays the celebrat­
ed Victory March and 
the N. D. Alma Mater, 
"Notre Dame Our Moth­
er," presented by Jcrr 

rVshley. 
Another gift was this hand-car»ed figurine of Notre Dame mascot Mike. Father Heston presented a white sheepskin folder containing membership certifi­cate and Man-of-the-Ycar scroll. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September^ 1958 
Historical and sports iiiolif of I9J8'S version of the annual .Vlunini Banquet is evident in the composition of the head table: (from left) James K. Armstrong, secretary of the .Alumni .Association: \\'alter Lanjiford. fencing coach; John Jordan, basketball coach; "Jake" Kline, baseball coach; ".Mike" Lavden. .Alumni .Association president; Rev. Mattlie«' J. Walsh, president of the University durini; the establish­ment of the .Alumni Ollicc; .Alfred C. Ryan, first alumni secretary and editor of the .ALU.MXUS; Terry Brennan, head football coach; Rev. George Holderith, golf coach, and Tom Fallon, coach of tennis and wrestlini;. 

i 9 5 8 

Some early-rising members of the Class of 1918 appear with guests from the Classes of 1908 and 1913. 
The rollicking Class of 1938 interrupted its rollicking just long enough for this picture before lunch on Saturday. 
fl Sotre Dante Alumnus^ August-September^ 195ti 
.VLUMNI GOLF TOURNAMENT 


1958 Class Reunions 
June 6-7, 1958 
36-HOLE TOURNAMENT 


Break 
Bv J.\^tI•:s E. ARMSTRONG. '25 

My Class of 1925 was a part of the Reunion in that year. I am |jrobably the only aliiiiinns who has attended eyeiy Reunion since that date. .-Xnd I liaye nex'er been so impressed as 1 was tliis year, or so personally ]jleased by the many eyidences of alimini de­yelopment. 
Ill the lir.st place, this was a numeri­cal record. Including unregistered alumni, largely L'niyersity personnel, we had 1.100 alumni on the cainpu;. 
Each Class enjoyed outstanding in­diyidiial Reunions. I wish you might all hayc heard the personal reminis­cences of die Classes of 1908. 191," and 1918 at their joint dinner in the Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn. 
Classes Contribute 

The Cla.ss of 192:i brought back a remarkable percentage of its members and deyoted much time to the serious analysis of educational yalues at Noire Dame. 
The Class of 1928, already legendaiy in its Reunion achieyeiiient.s, added new laurels by its attendance, by its CHass gift of SI5,000 as a 5-year Liy­ing Chair in tribute to Rey. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., and by the announce­ment of a magnilicent gift of 15100,000 or more for a student loan fund by one of its members, George Couiy, of Miami, Florida. 
The Class of 1933, the 25-Year Class, made a spontaneous and gener­

All Records 
ous gift of $5,100 to the New Moreau Seminaiy. which has been recognized by the designation of a Classroom there from the Class as a tribute to one of its members. Rey. James Donnelly. CS.C. 
Classes of "38. '43, '18 and '53. were outstanding in their attendance, in their presence at the Reunion general eyents, in their Cla.ss Mas.ses. and their fore­shadowing of the attendance problems that the near future holds for the Re­unions. 
The attendance and the attention which greeted the Special Conyocation for Father Hesbiirgh. in \Vashington Hall at 11 o'clock on Saturday morn­ing, were tributes to the hold he has on Notre Dame men, and his .State-of­the-Uniyersity address was most re­warding to the 500 alumni who heard him and who took this deyelopinent stoiy back to all \r<uis of the United States. 
The Monogram Club meeting on Thursday brouglu back, and held for the week end. a record number of foriner team greats in all Notre Dame sports. 
Lourdes Centennial .\Ia.ss 

Heaiitiful weather on Friday and Saturday crowded the .Miiinni Golf Toumaiiieni which Father George Holderith annually direct.s. 
The big disappointment of the week end was the Sunday weather which forced into Sacred Heart Church (a 
Winner Gross Ev. Schleck, "48 77-78—155 Runner-Up Gross Ed Krause, '34 84-76—160 .Most Birdies Birdies 
Bucky O'Connor, "48 

18-HOLE TOURNAMENT \\'inncr Gross Don Ross. "33 39-36—75 Jack Powers, "53 39-36—75 Runncr-Up Gross Larr>- Ryan. "48 37-39—76 Callaway Hdcp. Gross Hdcp. Net 
.Mike 'Godfrey, "53  77  6  71  
Larry Ryan. '48  76  5  71  
Paul Harrington. '53....121  50  71  

Blind Bosey ' 71 to 80 Blind By. Bill Stewart, "43 . 17 Ties 77 Driving Contest Distance 
Bucky O'Connor, '48 285 Driving Contest (Runn.-Up) Dbtance Jack Powers. '53 280 Bob Rogers, '43 280 Highest Score 18 Holes Bill Waeldner. '43 132 Oldest Class Score Butch Whipple, "16 93-98 
(36 Holes—191) Oldest Class Best Dressed Golfer 18 Holes Harrv Hogan. '04 92 
consoling and familiar center of alumni life in itself) the Lourdes Centennial Mass which was scheduled for the Giotto of Our Lady of Lourdes. The splendid sermon of Rey. Philip Schaerf, CS.C , was dcliyered to a capacity crowd in the church, and the Lourdes altar, with its newly added relic of Bernadettc, was compensation for the cancellation. 
Outstanding eycnt of the %veek end, in many wavs, was the Alumni Ban­quet, ta.xing the capacity of the New 
.-\ large and enthusiastic Silver Jubilee Class of 1933 stopped at the Library for a picture after the President's Luncheon in its honor. 
I\'otre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 
North Dining Hall. The management deseives great credit for efficient han­dh'ng of a crowd more dian 200 beyond its requested preparation earlier. The banquet was designed to Iionor the 35th Anniversary' of the establishment of the Alumni Office, a Lay Alumni Secretary, and the ALUMNUS Maga­zine. Plaques recognizing this historic event were presented to Rev. Matthew 
J. Walsh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame in 1923, and Alfred C Ryan, '20, first Secretaiy and Editor. 
The second half of the program was devoted to strengthening the family ties between all alumni and die activi­ties of the Athletic Department. Ed Krause served as an outstanding master of ceremonies to recognize the record-breaking year of victories in all of the team sports of the University. He in­troduced a sparkling series of short and interesting talks by Coaches Langford, Kline, Brennan, Jordan, Fallon and Father George Holderith. (Ale-x AVil­son was away with his track team still in competition.) 
As Alumni Secretary', I would like to pay tribute to and extend sincere appreciation to the growing number of persons in the Classes and at the Uni­versity whose good thinking and hard work, plus personal participation, are necessarj' for a successful reunion, and who made tlie 1958 Reunion the big­gest and the best in our histor>'. 
Here are some of more than a thousand grads who crowded into the North Dining Hall for the Alumni Banquet. 
RsMHioH lOeekeHd 1 9 5 S 
And here arc as many members of the Class of 1948 as could be coaxed off the golf course Saturday noon. 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 
have seen you stop during the day or night and what you received here we 

Our Lady of Lourdes 
will never know, but we know that 
Bv REV. PHILIP SCHAERF, C.S.C. 
(Ed. Note: Following are extracts from Father Schaerfs sermon delivered at the Annual Alumni Mass at Sacred Heart Church, June 8, 1958.) 
The transfer of our reunion Mass from the Grotto to the Church, even more strongly completes the parallel bet\veen Notre Dame and Lourdes. It was in 1936 that the Archbishop O'Hara of Philadelphia, then President of Notre Dame, in addressing the pres­ent Holy Father on his visit here, said, "It is our humble effort to have this union of Science and Religion cxempli­fied in the students who come to us; they in their turn in manifesting their good will have won for their school the title of 'The City of the Blessed Sacrament,' Notre Dame." 
Like the pilgrims of Lourdes, you have come from your Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes, to close your re­union at the triumph of the Ho|St, the Mass. It is a privilege to talk to you because you will understand, because you have lived the great Parado.x that is Lourdes today, and has been through­out the last himdred years. Thousands of other men have gathered to marvel at the Sputniks, Moqn Orbits, Rockets that they hope will reach the moon, 

but as yet they know nothing of the Apocalyptic "AVoman clothed with tlie Sun and the Moon at Her Feet and on Her Head a crown of twelve stars." 
"Grotto of Happy Failures" Like St. Bemadette the illiterate peasant girl, who in the so-called Age of Englightenment gave light to the world of Zola and Anatole France, so you too in this atomic age show the world you understand the great Paradox of a woman whose Son was a "sign of contradiction," because your faith is strong, that faith that you brought to Notre Dame from your home, for which your priests of Holy Cross are grateful. You knoiw the storj' of Lourdes and the one word that astounds the world: Miracles, something that cannot be ex­plained by the laws of nature. Ever)-­one knows of the physical cures, but the thousand of unwritten cures of the uncured: The miracles of resignation, these are tlie baffling parado.xes. The miracles of the conversion of the heart are astounding to those without faith. But it's an old stor)', it's the stor\' sum­

marized in an eternal mysterious 
"Fia:." 
For over a hundred years, thousands have repeated that Fiat at Lourdes, and gone away strong in their weak­ness. Men like Franz Werfel the Jew, sang a song about Bemadette the "little one." Fulton Oursler, called it the Happy Grotto of Happy Failures. Ruth Cranston, the Protestant called it the Road Back Home. Notre Dame men have imderstood and lived this 
•'Fiat" like Fred Snite, and Van Wal­lace, who understood anti Uved the paradoxical words of Bemadette "my occupation is to be ill," because they imderstood the words of St. Paul: "To fill up those things that are wanting in the Passion of Christ." 
Lourdes Confraternity Blessed And over the years you alumni of Our Lady's school have knelt, prayed and sung at this Grotto, and we your priests thank you, for carrying on the real spirit of Notre Dame as demon­strated in the simplicity of your faitli in the Lady on the Dome and the Lady in the Grotto, and carrying this faith into the work-a-day world in which you live. The paradox of your presence here tqday waiting for the Real Presence of Her Son on this Altar in an age of scientific advancement called the atomic age places no premium on in­tellectual mediocrity, does not justify a complacent acquiescence in low achievement; but it does emphasize that simplicity of faith, that purity of heart, and humility of spirit without 
which all learning may become a snare, 
a delusion, a pathway to outer darkness. 
Continue to make your "Fiat" to Our 

Lady: Notre Dame, in your consecra­
tion to Her, and receive the blessing 
of Her Son in the Eucharist, so' that 
Notre Dame like Lourdes may con­
tinue to be called the City of the 
Blessed Sacrament, that yqu may have 
a deeper understanding of the words 
engraved on the seal of your University 
of Our Lady: Vita, dulcedo, Spes. Our 
life. Our sweetness and our hope, words 
taken from the prayers recited after 
Mass. 
The conclusion of the sermon is in 
the form of an annquncement. The 
Holy See this year has blessed your 
Grotto of Our Lady with Indulgences. 
This Grotto, where we your priests 

you have lived the axiom of Lourdes: To Jesus through Mary. Maybe it could be summarized in the words of Fred Snite, "The faith that brought me peace also taught me that this life is a preparation for the next. In other words, I had a Job to do like every­body else. I had not been left qut." Just a few weeks ago we received at Notre Dame a cablegram from the Vatican stating: "Holy Father deeplv gratified greatly consoled learn re­organization Confraternity Immaculate Conception Our Lady Lourdes occa­sion Lourdes Centenar)' Year prays that effqrts be crowned comforting suc­cess cordially imparts special apostolic benediction." 
\Vhat is diis Confraternity of the Immaculate Conception of Our Lady of Lourdes? It is one of the oldest glories of the Congregaticp of Holy Cross at Notre Dame and it is yours for the asking. No need for fraternities at Notre Dame because you have always manifested the spirit of a Con-fratemity in a single purpose to honor Our Lady, Notre Dame, a symbol of the Notre Dame spirit. We the priests of Holy Cross give this to you as a concrete way of carrying this devotion with you al­ways. Like Lourdes itself, its obliga­tions are simple, its practices a re-emphasis qf the old prayers: Like the Rosar)' and the Sign of the Cross. Its rewards: Indulgences. The price: Prayer and penance. No meetings, no organization, no dues. It emphasizes personal sanctification that closer bond of union with the Woman you must love: Our Lady, Nqtre Dame. 
Father Schaerf preaches the Alumn! Reunion Mass. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 11 

KemioH Weekend 
The white hats and scholarly demeanor of the distinguished Class of 1923 were conspicuous on campus throughout the reunion weekend. 
Just a part of the record-setting 1953 contingent after the President's Convocation on Saturday. 
12 Notre Dame Alumnus, August'Septemberj 1958 
The relentlessly organized Class of 1928 lines up for a picture in a military manner between events in a crowded reunion schedule. 
J95$ 

A special sun'ey in conjunction with the reunion showed that the Class of 1943 was a pretty "representative" bunch of fifteen-year grads. 
Notrf. Dame. AUimnus, August-September, 1958 23 
1958 Comtnencement 
Archbishop Stresses Links Between Faith and Learning 
{Ed. Note: Following are the excerpts frotn the Archbishop's brilliant sermon which limited space permits.) 

"The University of Notre Daine, to­day, as it has done for a dozen more than one hundred years, makes a double act of faith. The Fathers of the Holy Cross, their associates in the Universit)', lay and clerical, stand at the head of the student body to pro­fess tlieir faitli in God Who inspires and informs the life and studies of this campus. Love for truth inexorably leads to God. Expanded or more in­timate understanding of the truth bring men to their knees in the Presence of the Absolute. 
"A little later today, the University will again convene to add an act of informed human faith in those graduates whom the authorities will invest with academic hon­ors at Commencement. 
"This last act of the day will be an academic salute. It will signal the begin­ning of varied careers. It will mark a part­ing from charted scholastic courses. It will open new ways, though these will never be divorced from the direction already assumed nor from the antecedent religious content which has distinguished this Universitj' as a Catholic school as well as an academic mill. 
".•\ccording to long tradition, a formal address will grace the commencement exer­cises. If it will follow the pattern of cus­tom, it will still not be an address which could have been given two generations ago. Commencement addresses, by their nature, must be slanted to the times. When this, and other like commencements are done, it might be interesting to synthetize all the orator)- that will punctuate this June, and then to contrast the s>-nthe5is with what was said in June of 1918, or June of 1938, or June of a half century ago. The world awaiting the parchment bearers of today is not the oyster it was once described to be. The opportunities for novices in learning are conditioned by the concern that statis­ticians e.\press because market places are apathetic and many workers are unem­ployed. That there is always a place for brains and energ>% we may concede. That the present world is warm towards current graduates may be debatable. 
"It does seem that, more than ever be­fore, education and educators are under adverse scrutinv. The content of our leam-
Most Rev. William O. Brady, Archbishop of St. Paul 

ing has been criticized and its depth de­plored. The methods of our teaching have been here and there attacked. The results of our scholarship have been wryly viewed with less than applause and satisfaction. The value of the sheepskin has been dis­counted by those who award it. Commence­ment oratory rings out, this year, while schools and scholars have been forced into a penitent mood." 
The Archbishop also said: "Perforce, graduations are somewhat stereotyped, in whatever college or university they take place. A course of studies has been run. Theses have been written and defended. Credits have been gained. Books have been thumbed. Debates have been held. .Aca­demic accountings have been made. Com­petence has been checked. Diplomas have been printed and sealed. The graduates are gowned and ready. .\ file ad\-ances. De­grees are given. The day is over. 
"But the stereotype is a delusion. There is more to education than an accolade. There is more to learning than the absorp­tion of the contents of a book. There is a relationship of temporal truth to eternal Knowledge. There is a continuity of past and future. There is a religious link in learning which ever>' baccalaureate affirms and every Catholic university reveals." 
The Archbishop continued: "There is a synthesis of truth which makes a harmon­ious whole. This, our Catholic universities cherish and attempt to share. If in one facult>' or another, in the whole modern field of education, there is a weakness or defect, such we should all rightly bemoan, joining our weeping with other schools which ha%'e less reason for the cherishing of perfection. But if there be any weakness in the essential and central faculty of divine truth, then would a Catholic universit)' thoroughly fail. 
"The technical world of tomorrow clam­ors for the scientists of today, for men of research,, men of original scholarship. The world also needs the cultural qualities that 
Father Hesburgh and distinguished recipients of honorary degrees pause during the  course  come  from  the  arts.  It  needs a  balance  in  
of busy  1958  Commencement  ceremonies.  Continued on page 28  
14  Notre  Dame  Alumnus,  August-September,  1958  


1958 Commencement 

Mitchell Address Seeks True Image of America* 
"It is a living idea. Informed by the spirit of a great people and the acciunulated experience of 20 centuries of western cul­ture, it has compelling value to all those peoples of the world who are restless for economic growth and thirsting for dignity and understanding. 
"We have, in practice, shown the com­munist concept to be obsolete. 
"We have shown that it is possible that the great powers natural to a technological society—the state, the corporation and the labor union—can be brought into equipoise and that they can be directed by the pop­ular will toward social improvement." 
A very interesting definition added: "The -American is not only a citizen, a worker and a union member, he is also father, brother, church member, lodge member, voter, tax payer, home owner, member of an ethnic group. He gives of his personal­ity to dozens of activities, and his personal­ity colors and helps to shape them all. 
"In the very plurality of .American so­ciety, in its delicate but natural balance of interests and forces, lies its unity." 
A very pertinent section of the address continued: "Understanding the values of our own society is one thing; expressing them is another. 
"I think one of the finest expressions of the American attitude to\vaTd the uses of society is in the story of a Notre Dame man. Dr. Thomas A. Dooley, who alone and with­out organizational aid at first divorced him­self from the comforts and promises of a career at home and went out to the peoples of southeast Asia, offering them under­standing and help. Before he was through —and he is not through yet, I understand— he had enlisted the help of major American corporations and institutions to donate of their material and their services. 
"Thomas Dooley, and the men who have helped him, present an image of America to the people of Asia that is powerful be­cause it is true. 
"From your generation, let us hope, will rise a similar spirit of advocacy. Continued on page 28 
{Ed. Note: Space permits only some of 
the significant statements made by Sec­
retary Mitchell to the Class of 1958.) 
"No honor has come to me that I will treasure more than the one you have given me today. I am proud to be this much a part of Notre Dame. 
"Here, for the past four years, the men of the Class of 1958 have been learning the shape of truth. Now, armed with a faith in its power, they are about to make their formal en­trance into the world of adult affairs. 
"This is not a happy moment in histor\\ "Communism has presented to western civilization its major crisis. "It is plain enough what communism is, and what its intentions are. "It is more germane, I think, to examine what communism represents itself to be. 
HONORIS CAUSA 
"Eminent theologian, zealous educa­tor." The Most Reverend William O. Brady, Archbishop of St. Paul. 
"Selfless service to our government." The Honorable James P. Mitchell, Wash­ington, D. C. 
"Unsparing in the anxiety and fidelity of Iiis support of the Catholic higher learning in this country." Mr. Raymond 
H. Reiss, New York City. 
"A publisher and business leader whose variety and distinction of accomplish­ments win our esteem." Mr. Robert H-Gore, Sr., Fort Lauderdale, Florida. 
"Life-time of aid to the economic growth and general well-being of our society." Mr. Alfred P. Sloan, New York City. 
"A courageous diplomat." The Hon­orable Robert D. Murphy, Washington, 
D. C. 
"His prolific activities through three decades on behalf of scientific develop­ment in America can only arouse awe." Dr. Lloyd V. Berkner, New York City. 
"His creative talent is rich and sym­pathetic." Mr. Paul Horgan, Roswell, New Mexico. 

and how the image of America is warped by that representation—and what effect all.of this has upon the shape of truth—for truth is at the ver>* core of the crisis. 
"Whatever the communists are able to gain in the Cold War, they will gain be­cause they have been able to make a plaus­ible case for themselves and for their sys­tem. 
"And whatever we may lose, we will lose because we have been unable to communi­cate the whole truth about ourselves and about our civilization. 
"It will be because we have been unable to say, in terms that are meaningful to the peoples of the rising nations of the world, that America has something more to offer then technological accomplishment and eco­nomic power. 
"It will be because we have been unable to express to the world, so that the world can understand us, that our ultimate strength is the high value we place upon the individual and our belief that the in­dividual has a source of authority and ful­fillment transcending the state. 
"It will be because the richness and com­plexity and variety of the .American social and economic structures and the depth and tradition of American life have seldom found e-xpression outside of superficial, con­fusing and misunderstood slogans. 
"I have heard it argued that the phil­osophical sources of American greatness lie too deep for words, that they are inexpres­sible. I do not believe this. 
"It is certainly true that the communists are able to put out effective pamphlets and posters and oratory—and, furthermore, they are free to tell lies. 
"But if men will die in Russia and in China for a lie, what sort of a world would they build with truth as their inspiration? 
"Speaking of .America, Jacques Maritain says: 
" 'You are advancing in the night, bear­ing torches toward which mankind would be glad to turn, but you leave them en­veloped in fog. . . .' 
"It is time for America's torches to be seen. "There is in the world a crisis of under­standing and communication. 
"It becomes, therefore, our insistent duty to examine the reasons for our country's greatness, to understand them, and, above all, to articulate them." 
Secretar)' Mitchell also said: "The Amer­ican economic system has, in fact, reached a point so far in advance of its origins that we are without adequate terms to describe it. 
"There is an urgent need to comprehend the nature of our s)stem and express it in meaningful terms that the world can under­stand. 
"Whatever we call this system of ours, it is something unique. 
Hon. James P. Mitchell, 
U. S. Secretary o£ Labor 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 13 
$100,000 GIFT BY GEORGE COURY,'28, TOLD AT REUNIONS 
A gift of $100,000 from Miami broker" Gcoi^e Cour>' will be used to • establish' a new student loan fund at Notre Dame, according to an an­nouncement by Fatlier Hesburgh at the 1958 Class Reunions. 
Father Hesburgh said the Cour>­Fund will provide loans to Notre Dame students who might otherwise have to withdraw from school because of finan­cial difficult)'. Coury, who was grad­uated from Notre Dame in 1928, faced such a prospect in his senior year but was able to complete his college edu­cation with the help of a loan. 
Native of Lebanon 
Coury's gift is among the first bene­factions under Notre Dame's new ten-year, $66,600,000 development pro­gram. A total of $5,000,000 of the projected goal has been earmarked for student aid. The University is also seeking $27,000,000 in endowment for faculty salaries, $18,600,000 for new buildings, $11,000,000 for research, and $5,000,000 for administrative purposes. 
A native of Lebanon, George Cour\' came to the United States at the age of five and spent his early years at McCurtain, Oklahoma. He was grad­uated from Subiaco Preparator>' Col­lege for Boys, Subiaco, Arkansas, in 
1924 and entered Notre Dame the following year. He prepared for his investment career by specializing in corporate finance, banking and stock operations in the University's College of Commerce. 
Serxcd in U.S. Navy 
George began as a messenger for Blyth and Co., a Chicago investment house, eventually becoming chief stat­istician. He later was associated with Sliields and Co., another investment firm, and became president of the Self Stoking Stove and Furnace Co. of Chi­cago. Following four years of World ^Var II service as a Heutenant com­mander in the Na\'>', Coury operated a chain of launderettes in Florida. He is a former president of Eichor, Inc., Chicago electronics firm, and now heads the George Coury Land and Oil Co. which has extensive real estate 
holdings in South Florida. 

New landmark on the campus came about when the biologj- building, erected « W" , «as S.^ y teignated the Wenningcr-Kir.ch Biologj- Hall in honor of t,vo great deans of the Col­lege of Science now departed, Rev. Alexander lOrsch, C.S.C., and Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C. 
Son of 'Bud' Dudley, '43 Grad, Recovers Powers in 'Miracle' 
A year removed from a near-fatal accident, hopes are high for a return to school and normal activity for young Francis Dudley, son of Ambrose F. "Bud" Dudley, '43, Philadelphia, sports promoter and former Villanova Uni­versity athletic director. 
Eight-year-old Frank, as he is known to the Dudleys, is back in his Wjune­wood home after a nine-month stay in Philadelphia hospitals and what brain specialists consider a modem miracle. 
On August 25, 1957, little Frank went for a spin on his two-wheel bicycle. Just around tlie coiner from 'ais home he was hit by a truck and thrown to tlie street. His father and a neighboring physician rushed the un­conscious boy to Lankenau Hospital, where he lay in a coma for 56 days. 
"On the 2Gth day a group of special­
ists told me there was no hope." says 
Bud. But somehow Frank recovered 
consciousness. He was taken to the 

Rehabilitation Center of Philadelphia' 
and observed constantly by doctors. A 
brain surgeon feared that damage had 
been severe in a vital section and that 
the boy would never walk, talk or even 
feed himself again. 
"Today, he walks," said Bud Dud­
ley. "He is wobbly in his balance, but 
he walks. And there is a tremor in his 
left arm. 
"And he talks a little. He talks in 
a high voice." 
Bud said the speech difficulty was a 

.r.r:.>:.;-.«-.--=SIi5^:Sa-2S^g^l^5S^^^rigi 
matter of environment. "At the center," he said, "Frank was the only child. The other patients were adults. They could not talk or walk properly. 
"The association with the adults possibly could have stopped Frank's progress. For instance, my boy stopped trj-ing to talk, just pointed at things the way the adult patients did." 
Bud, his wife and three young daughters have been acting as thera­pists, overcoming the habits picked up by tlie boy in his long hospital sojourn. All are most happy that Frank's in­tellectual processes were miraculously spared. Naturally Bud e.Kpects his son to become an athlete. 
"And to have faitli for a complete 
recover}', all I have to do is remember 
how I carried him into the hospital 
. . . and . . . brought home a walk­
ing boy." 
IS THERE 
A BOY IN THE HOUSE? 
If your household includes an active 
pre-teen American boy he would prob­
ably enjoy THE CATHOLIC BOY, a 
magazine edited by Rev. Frank Gart­
land, C.S.C., and published by the Holy 
Cross Fathers at Notre Dame. Special­
izing in the 11-15 age group, the maga­
zine is strong on sports, fiction and fea­
tures, with an occasional item in a more 
spiritual vein. $3.00 will buy twelve 48­
page issues in an attractive two-color 
format. Bargain rates are $5.50 for tivo 
years and $7.00 for three years. Write 
THE CATHOLIC BOY, Box 9088, 
Notre Dame, Indiana. 

16 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 
Atomic Grant Renewed For Radiation Project 
The U. S. Atomic Energy Com­mission has awarded a grant of $354,­314 renewng its support of Notre Dame's Radiation Project for another year, according to Francis X. Bradley, the Graduate School's assistant dean for research. 
Professor Milton Burton heads a group of about fifty scientists who are investigating the effects of high energy radiation on various forms of matter as well as problems of structure of sub­stances of particular interest in the field of atomic energy. Notre Dame's research in radiation chemistr)' is the largest project underway in the field at any university in this country or abroad. Since the Radiation Project was estab­lished in 1947, the AEG has provided a total of $1,923,036 in research grants while Notre Dame has contributed ap­proximately $824,000. 
According to Doctor Burton, the Notre Dame scientists are studying the elementaiy processes involved in the chemical, biological and physical changes induced in various substances by radiation. "We are particularly in­terested," he said, "in the microscopic features of these changes so that we 
rM 
jjftgg 
K^ sm' 

can predict what will happen in systems which have never been studied." Bur­ton pointed out that while some radia­tion effects are harmful, others can be used purposefully in various branches of science including medicine and metallurg)'. 
The project's radiation sources range in power from 1/1000th of a curie to a 1-milIion volt Van de Graaff genera­tor. Burton said. The radiation labo­ratories also have two cobalt-60 sources of 1,200 curies each, one of them underground. Still a different type of radiation is provided through a 50,000 volt X-ray installation. 
Notre Dame's Radiation Project has attracted graduate students from Ja­pan, India, Vietnam, Formosa, Ireland, Israel, England, Scotland, France, Italy, Germany, the Netherlands and Canada. The University has awarded more than twenty doctorates in the field. 
Faculty members associated with Dr. Burton on the project include associate director John Magee, \ViUiam Hamill, Rev. Thomas Lane, G.S.C., Brother Columba Curran, C.S.C., Patrick Mc-Cusker, Ernest Eliel, James Quagliano and George KuczjTiski. 
••m 
CLUB PRESIDENTS, ALUMNI DIRECTORS MEET FOR COUNCIL 
.'Approximately one hundred Notre Dame alumni leaders convened on the campus July 25 for the biennial Coim­cil of Local Club Presidents. Presiding at the three day sessions were Francis 
L. "Mike" Layden, Evansville, Ind., president of the Notre Dame Alunmi Association, and Edmond R. Haggar, Dallas, Tex., Association vice president in charge of local alumni clubs. 
Major items on the conference, agenda included alumni club relation­ships with the University in a number of areas including admissions, job placement, athletics, undeigraduate activity and the Notre Dame Founda­tion's development program. 
Department Chiefs Speak 

Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C, acting Notre Dame president, headed a group of University officials who ad­dressed the council. Other speakers were Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, director of the Foundation; Rev. Louis 
J. Thornton, C.S.C, placement di­rector; Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C, assistant to the vice president for student affairs; Rev. Richard Mur­phy, C.S.C, director of admissions and scholarships; and Edward AV. Krause, director of athletics. 
Also scheduled was a series of panel discussions of problems facing Notre Dame alumni clubs throughout the country'. According to alumni secre­tary James E. Armstrong, an increasing variety of local programs and activi­ties was discussed by presidents of clubs var^'ing greatly in size, age and location. 
Board Members Lead Sessions 

Conducting some of these sessions were Eugene Kennedy, alumni vice president in charge of classes; Jules de la Vergne and James Shells, all di­rectors of the Alumni Association. 
The University has a world-wide 
organization of 167 local alumni clubs, Armstrong reported. The annual ob­servance of Universal Notre Dame Night highlights one of the most Four thousand students marched in a candlelight procession to the Grotto of Our Lady of active and widespread alumni club pro­Lourdes on campus for the opening of May devotions. Father Hesburgh (extreme right grams among American colleges and 
foreground) addressed the huge congregation. May devotions were part of a series of University events marking the Lourdes Centennial Year. universities. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 17 '­
1953 and 1954. He is a former presi­
dent of the University's Lay Faculty 
Club. 
Broderick is author of Materials on






FACULTY PROFILES 
FRANCIS X. BRADLEY, JR. Assistant Dean for Research Notre Dame Graduate School 

Francis X. Bradley, Jr., has been 
ser\'ins; as Assistant Dean for Research in the University of Notre Dame Graduate School since April, 1957. He is also Act­ing Administra­tive Director of the University's Lobund Insti­tute. 
Bradley, who is both a lawj'er and an engineer, assists Notre Dame facultv members and departments secure financial support for their research projects from business, industry', foun­dations and government agencies. He also handles contractual arrangements for these projects and ser\'es as a liaison between University researchers and the sponsoring organization. 
A 41-year-old native of Detroit, Michigan, Bradley served during the past four-and-a-half years as a military requirements engineer at the Pratt and ^Vhitney .Aircraft Corporation, East Hartford, Connecticut. During World AVar II he was a lieutenant colonel in the United States Army Air Corps, ser\'ing as assistant chief of staff for operations in the Central African di­vision of -Air Transport Command. 
Bradley was awarded a bachelor of science degree in aeronautical engineer­ing at Notre Dame in 1939. Returning to the campus after the war, he worked toward a master's degree in mathe­matics, receiving it in 1949. He also enrolled in the Notre Dame Law School, receiving the degree of Juris Doctor in the same year. A year later he was awarded a master of laws degree bv the Yale Law School. For two yeare he was an assistant professor of law at Crcighton University, Omaha, Nebr. He is a member of the Indiana and Nebraska Bar Associations and the Air Force Association. 
He is married to the former Helen Elizabeth Baxter of Detroit, Michigan. They have four sons and a daughter at this writing. 
18 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 
EXCUSE OUR SLIP 

Our announcement in tlie May-June ALU.MNUS that Professor Devere T. Plunkett, Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, was unmarried must have come as quite a shock to his family. We beg Professor Plunkett's pardon for tlie fault)' researching. Actually he is married and has two children, a son in high school and a daughter now in college. 

JOHN J. BRODERICK, JR. 
Assistant Dean Nofre Dame College of Law 

John J. Broderick, assistant dean of 
the Notre Dame College of Law, joined the Uni­versity faculty in 1947. He has specialized in Evidence Proce­dure, Office Practice, and Labor Law. 
Brqderick took 

his undergradu­ate work at AVashington and Lee Uni­versity and received his law degree at St. John's University. He was admit­ted to the New York State Bar in 1936 and became associated with the firm of Pross, Smith and Halpem, New York City. From 1939 to 1942 he maintained his own law offices at Yonkers, New York. 
A Nav)' veteran of AVorld War II, Broderick was associated with the U. S. Veterans Administration from the time of his discharge until joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1947. 
In addition to his teaching and ad­ministrative duties within the Notre Dame law scliool, Broderick is also active in other fields. During 1951 he served with the Committee on Co­operatiqn with Bench and Bar of the Association of American Law Schools. The purpose of tliis committe was to survey and report of the state of train­ing in Legal Ethics and Judicial Ad­ministration in tlie member schools of the Association. Broderick was vice-chairman of Conferences on Arbitration in Labor-Management Relations held at the University of Notre Dame, in 
1958 
Procedure and Materiab on the Law 
of Evidence, both mimeographed texts. 
He has contributed to the Notre Dame 
Lawyer and other journals. 
He is married and has a daughter. 
Fattier McGrath Appointed Assistant Graduate Dean 
Rev. Joseph McGrath, C.S.C, has 
been appointed assistant dean of the 
Notre Dame Graduate School, accord­
ing to an announcement July 28 by 
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C, acting 
president. Father McGrath also will 
serve as director of the University's 
summer school. 
A native of Hubbard, Oregon, Father McGrath has been associated with the University of Portland since 1939. He ser\'ed as head of the chemistry depart­ment there for a number of years and more recently has been assistant to the president. 
Father McGrath entered the novi­
tiate of the Holy Cross Fathers in 1927 
and was ordained to the priesthood on 
June 24, 1936. A 1932 Notre Dame 
graduate, he received a doctorate in 
chemistrj' from the University in 1939. 
Hugh Devorc, former Notre Dame football captain and later head coach, was named freshman coach of the Fighting Irish before spring practice by head coach Terry Brcn­nan. Hughie played three years at end under Hunk Anderson, 1931-33, and was co-captain with Kitty Gorman in 1933. He has coached at Fordham, Providence Col­lege, Holy Cross and most recently with St. Bonaventure, New York U., Dayton and the Philadelphia Eagles. Notre Dame end coach under Ed McKccver in 1943-44, he was head coach in 1943, winning seven and losing two with one tic before Frank Leahy's return. 
New England encounters with the 

Cinemogul Wingerter, '28, 
U. S. Navy and Boston Pops Orches­tra; then back to Oslo by the route of Leif Ericsson—and all, says critic John 
Enjoys 'Windjammer' Trip 
Fitzgerald, with the "freshness and fun 
of good entertainment." 
In all these exotic locales Wingerter 

never got far from Notre Dame. He 
met classmate Howard Phalin in San 
Juan, Puerto Rico, missed resident Art 
Denchfield in Port-of-Spain, Trinidad. 
Watching Windjammer an alumnus 

will be comforted to know that the life 
of a movie executive can be, occasion­
ally at least, a gay mad whirl. 
Commencement Held For ' Record Summer Session Of Over 2,500 Students 
Approximately 175 graduate students and 50 undergraduates received degrees at the University of Notre Dame's summer commencement exercised Au­gust 5 th. 
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., acting president, conferred the degrees at ceremonies in the University Drill Hall. The commencement speaker was Richard T. Sullivan, professor of English at Notre Dame as well as a novelist and short-story writer. 
The sunmier graduates' Baccalau­reate Mass was celebrated by Father Joyce in Sacred Heart Church at 9:00 
a.m. The sermon was preached by Rev. Paul Bailey, C.S.C, assistant pro­fessor of religion. 
The ceremonies marked the close of Notre Dame's 40th annual summer session, the largest in the University's history. Approximately 2500 students, nearly half of them nuns, attended summer classes. 
Professor Sullivan received Notre Dame's Lay Faculty Award for dis­tinguished service to the University in 1946. A member of the University faculty since 1936, he is the author of The Three Kings, five other novels, and more than fifty short stories. He regularly reviews books for The New York Times and The Chicago Tribime. 
Father Bailey taught at Notre Dame from 1948 to 1950 and rejoined the faculty three years ago. From 1952 to 1955 he served as an instructor in psychology and staff psychologist at the University of Portland (Ore.). A Notre Dame graduate, he holds a master's degree in psychology from the Catholic University of America, Wash­insfton, D. C. 
The life of a motion picture execu­tive isn't always a gay, mad whirl, John J. Wingerter, '28, will tell you^ parti cularly if your specialty is business and manage m e n t and your office is on Madison Avenue in New York City. 
Life for John 
Wingerter, a n John J. Wingerter 
associate in Louis de Rochemont Pro­ductions, Inc., is pretty much the same as for any other denizen of the Great Gray Flannel \\'ay. He commutes from Spring Lake, N. J., and is more at home with talk about balancing budg­ets than in a discussion of production values, directing and acting techniques or camera angles. His association with Louis de Rochemont goes back to 1935 and the March of Time film series. For a while he was with Time, Inc., 
and then in 1947 he rejoined de Roche­mont during the formation of Louis de Rochemont Associates. During ^Vorld \Var II he had scr\'ed with the Army's Psychological Warfare Brancii at Allied Forces H.Q. in North Africa and Italy. 
The company name is a household synonym for a certain kind of docu­mentaiy realism exemplified in its in­frequent, lovingly made productions— 
Boomerang, Lost Boundaries, The Whistle at Eaton Falls, House on 92nd 
Street, IKa/A-East on Beacon, Fighting Lady, Cinerama Holiday—and a habit of starring the camera and introducinar players who only later emerge as stars —Lauren Bacall, Charles Cobum, Dor­othy McGuire, Mel Ferrer, Karl Mai­den, Ernest Borgnine, etc. 
Remote as he was from this phase of the business, his friends were sur­prised when John volunteered as unit business manager with the company of Windjammer, a sea saga to pioneer the gigantic Cinemiracle process. The life was rugged, but it seemed to satisfy a long-suppressed ambition. Setting up his office ashore or afloat, wherever he could find space, John worked hard 
(as is his custom), dressed comfortably (as is not) in sweatshirt and jeans, oc­casionally helped with ship's chores and generally enjoyed himself. 
So, according to the critics, does the Windjammer audience. Glowing color, gay music in stereo sound and Cine-miracle (a kind of seamless Cinerama) dress up a stor)' of Norivegian cadets training aboard one of the last of the big sailing vessels. They skim over the North Sea, through a fierce Atlantic storm and into Portuguese Madeira for fireworks and a wild ride down a mountain; thence by the route of Co­lumbus to Puerto Rico and cellist Pablo Casals: Holland transplanted to tropical Curacao: Trinidad jumping witli steel bands, limbo dancers and calypso; through the Caribbean to New York and some fairj'land photography; 

A very salty Jack Wingerter (right) poses on the signal bridge of the "Christian Radich" and (left) helps a crew member with ship's chores during filming of Technicolor epic "Windjammer." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1953 19 
Graduates Eligi 
George N. Shuster, '15, A.M. '20, president of Hunter College in New York City, has been named the Amer­ican member of the executive board of the United Nations Educational, Scien­tific and Cultural Organization (UN­ESCO) and recently received an honorar>' LL.D. degree from Man­hattan College. 
Arthur J. "Dutch" Bergman, '17: ' former college and professional football coach, sportscaster, founder and first president of the Touchdown Club, now manager of the Washington, D. C, National Guard Armory, became die third Rockne-era N.D. footballer re­cently honored by testimonials. Vice President Nixon presented Dutch with a life-size portrait at a reception and dinner May 29 at Washington's Statler Hotel. Previously feted May 10 by 
N.D. alumni and friends from St. Mar\''s, Purdue, Iowa, etc., in San Francisco, were former coaches Jimmie Phelan, '17, and "Slip" Madigan, '20, ushered into the Helms Foundation Hall of Fame. 
• 

John Q. Adams, '26, has been named chairman and Frank Folsom, LL.D., '56, vice chairman of the Catholic Em­ployers and Managers Study Group, hailed by Undersecretary of Labor James T. O'Connell as a necessar)' step toward achieving harmony in labor-management relations. 
• 

Max Conrad, who was a student in '27, recently topped his St. Patrick's Day transatlantic hop to Ireland when he landed a single-engine plane in Palermo, Sicily, after a non-stop flight of 4,440 miles from New York in 32 hours, 55 minutes. A {eny pilot and part-time poet, Ma.x has made 34 such flights in four years. 
• 

Rev. Richard H. Sullivan, C.S.C, '34, has been appointed president of Stonehill College, North Easton, Mass. Father Sullivan received his licentiate in philosophy from the Gregorian Uni­versity in Rome and his doctorate from Laval University in Quebec after the­D\ogy study at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C. 
• Harvey G. Foster, '39, a recent ^resident of the N.D. Alumni Associa­
tion and foiTner guard on the football team, has been named special agent in charge of the New York office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
Michael A. Stepovitch, '44, has realized his fervent wish to be the last appointed governor of Alaska, soon to be admitted officially as the 49th and largest state of the union. The interim governor resides in the gubernatorial mansion in Juneau with his First Lady and eight children, now known to everj'one as the "eight little itches." 
Sylvester Theisen, '49, former di­rector of the NCWC cultural affairs office in Germany and presently acting director of the foreign visitors office of NCWC in Washington, has been awarded the Officer's Cross of tlie Order of Merit of die Federal Republic of Germany, formally presented by Ambassador Wilhelm Grewe at a luncheon in the ambassador's home in Washington, D. C, May 28. He will teach this fall at St. John's University, CoUegeville, Minn. The Thiesens have two infant children, David Gregory and Clara Jean. 
Rev. Brian Egan, O.S.B., '58, was praised as the president of St. Bernard College, Cullman, Ala., in an article "Baptists & Benedictines" in the June 9 issue of Time magazine. 
For Foreign Study Under Fulbright Act 
Approximately 1,000 American col­lege graduates will have a chance to continue their studies in any of 43 foreign countries during 1959-60 under the International Educational Ex­change Program of the Department of State. 
General eligibility requirements are 
U. S. citizenship, a Bachelor's degree before departure, language ability suffi­cient to carry on the proposed study, and good health. A demonstrated capacity for independent study is also necessar)'. Preference is given to ap­plicants under 35 years of age. 
Applicants will be asked for a state­ment of their reasons for desiring to study abroad and for a preliminary plan of their proposed study. Success­ful candidates will be affiliated with educational institutions that will help them plan their programs. 
Persons interested in the scholarship awards should write to the Institute of International Education, 1 East 67th St., New York 21, N. Y., for further information and application forms. 
Competitions for die 1959-60 aca­demic year close November 1, 1958. Requests for application forms must be postmarked before October 15. Com­pleted forms must be submitted by November 1. 
A PROGRAM FOR THE FUTURE 1958 ... 1967 
1.
 Endowment for Increased Faculty Salaries $27,000,000 

2.
 Contributions for Research $11,000,000 

3.
 Student Aid $ 5,000,000 

4.
 Special Funds for Administrative Purposes $ 5,000,000 


5.  New  Buildings  $18,600,000  
Additions to  
a) Commerceb) Lawc) EngineeringLibrary ... .(2) Graduate Halls .....Priests' Faculty Building.Maintenance CenterAuditorium ... ..Fieldhouse  $ 500,000 $ 500,000 $ 500,000  $5,000,000  ...... $2,500,000  $1,500,000 $ 600,0Ck)  .". $3,500,000  $4,000,000  
TOTAL  $66,600,000  

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958
<o 
heritance is counted as an entrance re-: quirement for Notre Dame or St; 
Family of Bob Dalton, '49, 
Mary's, the Dalton children will have 
no worries. Here is the "family tree" ", 
they can present: 
Has Top N.D.'S-M.C Heritage 
Can Trace Forebears to Fathers DiUor\ 
The proud distinction of being the parents of a family of children whose Notre Dame-St. Mary's heritage e.K­ceeds that of any other children in the world undoubtedly belongs to Mr. and Mrs. E. Robert Dalton of Hartford, Conn. The little ones themselves — Anne Dillon, Emmet Robert, Jr., Frederick Francis and Angela Mary — are still too small to appreciate the unusual position they occupy in Notre Dame and St. Mary's circles, but it will mean much to them in the years that are ahead. 
More of their ancestors, both direct and collateral, on three sides of the family have been students — many of them graduates — either of Notre Dame or St. Mary's than any other group can claim. Their great-great­great uncles were the Rev. Patrick Dillon, C.S.C, second president of Notre Dame and his brother, the Rev. Father James Dillon, C.S.C, who be­came famous as a; Union Army chap­lain during the Civil War and later was vice-president of the University. Their great-great-great aunt was Sister Ligouri, C.S.C, (Mary Dillon) a pioneer nun at St. Mar)''s and the sister of the Fathers Dillon. 
From there on down the line to the present, one blood relative after an­other, not to mention some to whom they were related by marriage, have been Notre Dame or St. Mary's stu­dents. Several times within recent years a young man has been graduated from Notre Dame who could boast that his grandfather was likewise an alumnus of the University. The same is true of some St. Mary's girls and their grandmothers. Both grandfathers of the Dalton children earned degrees at Notre Dame and their maternal grandmother is a graduate of St. Mary's. Their father is, of course, a Notre Dame man, having been gradu­ated with the Class of 1949, while their mother, who was Anne-Dillon Curr)', received her degree at St. Mary's in 1950. 
Little Anne Dillon, although named for her mother, is the third member of the family to bear that given name. A great-great aunt was likewise Anne Dillon, but in her case Dillon was her maiden name. Baby Angela is the sLxth of that name, tlie first having been her great-grandmother, Angela (Dillon) Connor, who was given this name by her own aunt. Sister Ligouri, C.S.C, in honor of Mother Angela Gillespie, C.S.C, an early superior general of the Sisters of Holy Cross. 
Cousins in varying degrees, too nu­merous to list, have been Notre Dame or St. Mary's students and graduates. It is interesting that the first of these was Margaret (Dillon) Cavanaugh, St. Mar)''s '67, who was the fourth presi­dent of the St. Mary's Alumnae As­sociation. She was the niece of Michael Dillon, a brother of the Fathers Dillon of Notre Dame and the great-great grandfather of the Dalton children. 
If the time ever comes when in­

Notre Dame Father: E. Robert Dalton, '49. Grandfathers: Richard Dalton, '06; Thomas B. Curry, '14. Uncles: Thomas B. Curry, Jr., '49; David Curry, '55. Great-uncles: James A. Curry, '14; John 
P. Curry, '02; Benedict Connor, '17; Paul R. Martin-Dillon, '09. Great-great uncles: Eugene Dillon, Tho­
mas Billon. Great-great grandfather: Michael Dillon. Great-great-great uncles: Rev. Patrick 
Dillon, C.S.C.; Rev. James Dillon, C.S.C. 
St. Mary's 

Mother: Anne-Dillon (Curry) Dalton, '50. Grandmother: Angela (Connor) Curry, 
'14. Aunt: Elise (Cuny) O'Connell, '52. Aunt by marriage: Kathleen (Abel) 
Curr>-, '46. 
Great aunts: Sister Angela, C.S.C. (Mildred -Connor, '12); .A.nne-Dillon O'Leary, '15; Margaret (Connor) Welch, '11: Theresa (Currj-) Gay, '17; Mary 
.Mahoney Curry, '15. Great aunt by marriage: Brunilda Fran-sen Connor. Great grandmother: Angela (Dillon) Connor, '80. 
Great-great aunts: Agnes (Dillon) Mack-ens, '83; Mary (Dillon) McCarthy, '87; .'\nne (Dillon) Humpfer, '94. 
Great-great-great aunt: Sister Ligouri, CS.C. (Mary Dillon, '72.) 
Mr. and Mrs. E. Robert Dalton and family of Hartford, Conn. The children: (I. to r.) Annc-Dillon, Emmet Robert, Jr., Frederick Francis, Angela Mary. Their Notre Dame-St. Mary's heritage is unrivaled. See story. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 21 
University 

SUMMER SCHOOL: The largest summei­session in Notre Dame historj' opened June 23 with well over 2.300 students. Among the 1,800 graduate students attending summer classes were an estimated 1,200 nuns who teach in the nation's Catliolic schools and colleges during the regular school year. . . . SPECIAL EVENTS: Several conferences were scheduled to be held during or after the summer session. Among them were the Vocation Institute. July 17-20: the Institute of Spirituality, August 6-12, and tlie Catholic Band­masters" Convention, August 8-9. Yet to come are the Catholic Students Mission Crusade Conven­tion, August 21-24; the Christian Family Move­ment Convention, August 28-31, and the National Catholic Social Action Conference, September 4-7. . . . TEACHING BY TV: Two hundred fift>' high school teachers enrolled in the summer session attended lectures in mathematics via closed cir­cuit in Notre Dame's first experiment with T\'^ as a teaching medium. Dr. Arnold Ross, head of the mathematics department, beamed a lecture series on "Boolean Algebra" from die \\TST)U-T\^ stu­dios to several television-equipped classrooms in O'Shaughnessy Hall. The students, many of tliem nuns, supplemented this with off-camera discus­sions evaluating TV as a teaching medium. Not content to ape classroom procedures, Dr. Ross KC­ploited T\''s \'isual advantages and attempted to "cope with its difficulties." . . . HISTORY TEACHERS MEET: About 150 Catholic high school history' teachers attended the annual meet­ing of the Historj' Teachers' Club on campus June 27-29, participating in discussions and hearing major addresses by Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, CS.C. (See "Faculty") and Dr. Fayez Sayegh of Yemen N. D. JOINS AMU: Notre Dame is one of 26 leading educational and research insti­tutions to form an inter-university corporation known as Associated Midwest Universities (AMU) 
with headquarters at Argonne National Labora­
tor)''s main site near Lemont, Illinois. Purpose of 
the corporation is to promote, encourage and con­
duct education and research in science, using the 
facilities of Argonne and other laboratories as 
needed. . . . EGGHEADS & GOVERNMENT: 
Today's complex federal government requires both 
expert specialists in a variety of fields and men of 
general wisdom who are "politically accountable," 
according to Paul H. Nitze, president of the For­
eign Seivice Educational Foundation, Washing­
ton, D.C., in an article, "The Role of the Learned 
Man in Government," in a recent issue of the Uni­
versity's quarterly REVIEW OF POLITICS." 
Faculty-Administration 
AMERICAN MINORITY: American Cath­
olics constitute a numerical, cultural and religious 
minority but lack the political aggressiveness of 
most minority groups. Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, 
CS.C, head of the histor)' department, told a re­
cent campus gathering of the History Teachers Club, 
an organization of history instructors. . . . PRE­
SENTS PAPER: Lawrence F. Stauder, associate 
professor of electrical engineering, presented a pa­
per titled "Power System Demonstration Equipment 
for Educational Purposes" at the American Institute 
of Electrical Engineers district meeting at East 
Lansing, Mich., recently. The paper was spon­
sored by the Computers Committee. In the stu­
dent paper competition fourteen Midwest univer­
sities were represented. George Breen, a senior in 
electrical engineering at Notre Dame, represented 
his branch at the meeting, having won the local 
competition with his paper "Moving Target In­
dication." . . . ENGINEERING STUDY: Harold 
A. Foecke, assistant professor of electrical engi­neering, has been appointed project director of a nationwide study on how to develop more and bet­ter teachers for the nation's engineering schools. 
•The project vnl\ be conducted by The American 
22 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 
Society for Engineering Education with the sup­port, of a $24,500 grant from the Ford Founda­tion. Prof. Foecke has been granted a leave of absence to undertake the assignment for the ASEE. . . . BROWN HONORED: Prof. Frank 
N. M. Brown, head of the department of aero­nautical engineering, was honored by Indiana Technical College, Fort AVayne, at the dedication of its Dana Science Hall June 14. He was cited as one of 100 distinguished Midwestemers "who have made outstanding contributions to industrial de­velopment through management, science and engi­neering." . . . SCULPTURE PRIZE: The Leon­ard Cantor Memorial Prize for Sculpture at the 51st annual Indiana Artists Exhibition at the John Herron Art Museum, Indianapolis, went to Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., of the art department for his work entiUed "At Prayer." . . . LOURDES LECTURER: Rev. Joseph Papin, associate pro­fessor of theolog)', has been inwted to deliver two lectures at the International Mariological Con­gress at Lourdes, France, September 10-17. Dur­ing the 1958-1959 school year he will conduct re­search in Italy. . . . PREACHER PRACTICES: Harold \V. Murphy, former assistant professor of mechanical engineering, has joined the applica­tions engineering department of the Trane Com­pany, LaCrosse, AVisconsin. 
Students 

FRESHMAN SCHOLARSHIPS: Thirty-four freshmen entering Notre Dame in September have been awarded scholarships administered by the University, according to Rev. Richard D. Murphy, C.S.C., director of admissions. . . . TEXAN HITS TRIPLE: A June graduate, "William B. Griffith of Smithfield, Texas, has scored an academic triumph almost as spectacular as Van Clibum's musical victory in Moscow. A cross-country run­ner and student senator. Bill has won three major fellowships for graduate study in competition with thousands of outstanding college seniors through-, ont the country. He has received a Fulbright grant, a ^Voodrow Wilson National Fellowship and a Danforth Fellowship. . . . TWO DAN­FORTHS ANNOUNCED: Notre Dame seniors won two of 93 Danforth Graduate Fellowships recently announced by the Danforth Foundation, St. Louis, Mo. They were chosen from 700 candidates nominated by nearly 400 colleges. One is Bill Griffith, mentioned above, who will use his fellowship after study in Belgium on a Fulbright grant. The other is James L. McDonald of Cin­cinnati, Ohio WINS LAW GRANT: Thomas 
M. Wall, another June grad, has been awarded a three year, $7,200 Elihu Root-Samuel J. Tilden Scholarship to the New York University School of Law. The scholarships are presented annually to young men with distinguished scholastic records "who show unusual capacity for unselfish public leadership." 
Religion 

PROVINCIAL CHAPTER: Thirty-five priests participated in a triennial provincial chapter of the Holy Cross Fathers in June to review recent de­velopments, formulate future policies and confer obediences or appointments for priests of the province. Some appointments applying to the University appear in this issue. . . . BISHOPS SPEAK: Two members of the hierarchy. Bishop Lawrence J. Shehan of Bridgeport, Conn., and Bishop Joseph M. Marling, C.PP.S., of Jefferson City, Mo., addressed the sixth annual Institute of Spirituality on the campus August 6-12, attended by more than 800 superiors of women's religious communities and their houses of formation. . . , VOCATIONAL INSTITUTE: "The Sociology of Vocations" was the theme of the eleventh Vo­cation Institute held at the University July 18-20. More than 200 religious and laymen concerned with vocations participated, and attendance was swelled by many others attending simimer school. Bishop Albert R. Zuroweste of Belleville was the kejTiote speaker. . . . ORDINATIONS: Five new Holy Cross priests were recently ordained on cam­pus: Rev. George F. Pope, C.S.C., Deerfield, 111.; Rev. Francis D. Zagorc, C.S.C., Cleveland, O.; Rev. James E. Kelly, C.S.C., Akron, O.; Rev. Robert T. Hesse, C.S.C., Grand Rapids, Mich., and Rev. Ralph G. Luczak, C.S.C, Bay City, Mich. Seven were ordained elsewhere. In Bridge­port, Conn.: Rev. Francis A. Gangemi, C.S.C, Syracuse, N. Y., and Rev. George J. Palick, C.S.C, Reading, Pa. In Rome: Rev. Harry P. Baker, CS.C, Flint, Mich.; Rev. James C Doig, C.S.C, Little Rock, Ark., and Rev. Joseph F. Geniesse, CS.C, Green Bay, Wis. In Gary, Ind.: Rev. James A. Dorsey, C.S.C, Hammond, Ind. In Portland, Ore.: Rev. Richard A. Papen, C.S.C, Sheridan, Ore. 
Also in the ordination class at Holy Cross College, ^Vashington, D. C, were Rev. Lucien 
H. Coutu, C.S.C; Rev. Richard P. Deshamais, C.S.C; Rev. Henry J. Donaghy, C.S.C, Rev. George C Laprade, C.S.C; Rev. Roger Marcil, C.S.C; Rev. James F. Murphy, C.S.C; Rev. Gerald M. Scully, C.S.C; and Rev. Burton E. Smith, CS.C 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1938 23 
1957-58 SEASON BEST IN HISTORY 
For the first time in Notre Dame his­

tory' the combined varsity athletic teams 
posted more than 100 wins for a single 
season. In the 1957-58 season Irisli 
squads shattered all previous records, 
hasdng won • 107 contests in regular 
season play and lost only 24 for a win­
ning percentage of .824. 
The teams were unanimously in the win column. Not one squad in a major or minor sport suffered a losing, or even a break-even, season. 
The honor roll includes basketball (24-5), tennis (17-1), baseball (17-8), fencing (16-0), golf (12-3), football (7-3), \\Testling (7-2), track and cross­countiy (7-2, combined, plus the N.C.'^.A. cross countiy title). The win­ning tradition was even carried into extracollegiate competition: the swim club, soon to launch into the intercol­legiate deeps as a \'arsit)' sport (see stor)'), finished with six wins, five losses and a respectable tournament record: the sailing club was second in the Mid­west. 
Here are tlie rundowns: 
TENNIS (17-1) 

The tennis team had its best season in eleven years, falling only one match short of a perfect season as in 1947. The Irish won the first 13 matches be­fore being beaten 5-4 by Iowa. The 13th \'ictory was the biggest one, stop­ping Michigan's 47-match. streak, 7-2, and gixang the Irish the Cherr)' Blos­som Tournament championship in a delayed play-off between finalists. The netters took the last three matches without the ser\'ices of their number one singles player Max Brown, who sprained his ankle in a May practice. Four of the six regulars lost only one match. Brown won 14, while Capt. Ron Schoenberg, Chuck Stephens and Chuck Vanocini all won 17. The other regulars were Hector Cabello and Ser­gio Garza. Coach Tom Fallon's team went to the N.C.A.A. tourney in An­napolis, Md., in June. 
BASKETBALL (24-5) Notre Dame's basketball team s\vept through a 26-game schedule with only 
four losses and then dumped Tennessee Tech and Indiana in the N.C.A.A. Tourney before losing to Kentucky, the eventual winner. The Irish had more victories tlian any other Notre Dame team. Among tlie records: a 12-game end-of-season win streak; Tom Hawk­ins single-season scoring mark of 730 points, breaking his own record of 576 the previous season; the "Hawk's" ty­ing of Lloyd Aubrey's single-game rec­ord (43 points against the Air Force Academy Feb. 8) and shattering Jack Stephen's 3-year 1,251 with a 2-year mark of 1.306; co-captains Bob Devine and John McCarthy both topping the 1,000 mark for their careers, De\'ine starting in 81 consecutive games in his three years; an all-time record team total of 2,374 points, including 106 scored against Marquette, and a finish in the top ten in all major polls. 
BASEBALL (17-8) 

Coach Jake Kline, in his 25tli year as baseball mentor, had a highly satis­factor)' season in spite of tlie loss of an 
Rev. George L. Holdcrith, C.S.C., accepts bronze plaque naming h!m "Golf Coach of the Year" from Dr. D. M. Nigro, president of the Rockne Club, beneath a portrait of "Rock" at club's annual Rockne Award testimonial banquet in Kansas City. 
entire infield including two-time All-
American catcher Elmer Kohorst. The 
Klinemen, who took an N.C.A.A. bid, , 
were perhaps the hittingest team in 
Notre Dame history. Most of the sea­
son tlie squad batting average topped 
.300, with first baseman Jim Morris 
hitting close to .450 and leading in 
everything but triples. Among the .300 
hitters were pitcher-outfielder Frank ^ 
Carpin, catcher Ed Wojcik, second . 
baseman Dick Selcer, third baseman 
Bud Trapp and left fielder Captain * 
Bob Senecal. Carpin, a left)', and sen­
ior right hander Chuck S)'meon led 
the mound corps. Irish nines have ap-. 
peared in the N.C.A.A. four times in 
the twelve years of the tourney's exist-­, ence. FENCING (16-0) 
The fencing team, year in and year 
out the winningest team on the cam­
pus, completed the season undefeated 
and took a sixtli place tie in the S 
N.C.A.A.
 meet at Texas Tech. The Irish set a new record of 19 consecutive wins, haxdng won their last three matches during the 1957 season. In 22 years they have Iiad 186 meet wins and •< only 43 losses. Since ^Valter Langford returned to coach the fencers in 1951 they have won 99 and lost only 12. Top ^ fencers were Jim Russomano in foil (33-7), Captain Dick Fagon in sabre (31-11) and Ron Farrow in epee (32­6). Farrow placed third in the 

N.C.A.A.
 tourney. Other fine fencers « included ]eny Johnson and John Lau­erman in foil; Jerry Meyer, Pat Green ' and Tom Lee in sabre; Jim Jock, John ^ Keams and Dan Clancy in epee. 


GOLF (12-3) 

Rev. George L. Holderitli, C.S.C, •• 
guided his golfers past Northwestern .^ 
and Tri-State College and into the 
N.C.A.A. tournament at Williams Uni-•« versity to round out one of their most successful seasons. In his 26 years Fa­ther Holderitli has compiled a 165-61 ^^ record with 11 ties with a winning per­centage of .703. He has had much to ^ do with the development of golf at Notre Dame. From his interhall tour­neys have come many varsity golfers and even more interest in the sport. He had an N.C.A.A. championship y^ team in 1944 and is past president of the Association of Golf Coaches. 
FOOTBALL (7-3) * Terr)' Brennan led a team that had suffered a disastrous season the year before to a highly respectable showing against the toughest competition in the 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September^ 1958 
countr)'. The team posted two mem­orable upsets against Army and Okla­homa, lost only to Michigan State, Iowa and Navy. Highlights of the thrilling season were the performances of All-American Al Ecuyer and Nick Pietrosante. 
WRESTLING (7-2) 
The wrestling team has its best rec­
ord in the three years that it has been 
a varsity sport. Under the capable 
coaching of Tom Fallon the matmen 
scored seven wins in dual competition 
and took part in two tournaments. In 
the AVheaton Invitational they placed 
fourth, while in the Intercollegiate In­
vitational at Case Tech Jeny Sachsel 
(117 lbs.) and Bronko Nagurski (heavy­
weight) took third place in their re­
spective classes. In the dual meets 
Sachsel had an 8-0-1 record and Na­
gurski a 3-1. Buddy Day (123 lbs.) 
won 5 and lost 4 while Capt. Bob 
Pivonka (130 lbs.) and Jim Rankin 
(137 lbs.) had records of 7-2 and 8-1 
respectively. 
TRACK & CROSS COUNTRY (7-2) 
After taking the N.C.A.A. cross countr)' championship Alex Wilson's track team won five of six dual meets and finished in June in the Central Collegiate meet in Milwaukee and the 
N.C.A.A. in Berkeley, Calif. A limita­tion to track hopes was the loss of Captain Aubrey Lewis through a foot­ball injur)'. Dale VandenBcrg and Mike Morando set all-time Notre Dame records. VandenBerg was the fastest collegiate half-miler in the indoor sea­son. His record 1:51.4 time beat the indoor and fieldhouse marks. Morando, a javelin thrower, bettered Notre Dame's oldest track record when he threw his spear 223 feet, 4}/^ inches. A 34-)'ear mark of 202 feet, 7 inches, was set by Gene Oberst in 1924. Mor­ando won the 8th annual Currie award as most improved player. Other con­sistent winners included sprinter Joe Foreman, broad jumper Jack Cote, high jumper Tom Sanfacon and dash-man Barclay Ewart. 
SWIMMING TEAM GOES VARSITY 
Swimming is now a varsity sport at Notre Dame by a recent decision of the University's athletic board. Coaching the new team will be Dennis Stark, a swimming instructor with the physical education department. 
The present team was organized as 

Four sophomores (left to right), Bill Gronin, Cris Lund, Alike Afahany and Gene Witchger, freestyle relay champs of last season, will bolster the new varsity swimming team this year. 
a club three years ago through the efforts of Dan Healy, '55; Ed Healy, '57; Paul Kerwin, '58, and Mike Con­nelly, '57. Gil Burdick, also a swim­ming instnictor, has served very cap­ably as coach. Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C., was chosen moderator of the club, and Mike Connelly was the first captain. 
In its first year the club won four meets and lost one in dual competi­tion. In the second year there were five wins and five losses in dual com­petition. This past year there were six wins and five losses. Altogether the club has won 15 dual meets and lost 11; has come in first in one triangular meet, second in another; has won second place for the last two years in the Midwest Invitational Meets at North Central College, and also placed in the Loyola Relays last year. All this was achieved as a club activity, in competition with some tough varsity teams. 
Swimming certainly is nothing new at Notre Dame, as can be seen from the fact that the first indoor pool was built in 1902. As an outdoor sport it goes back even further. The present pool in the Rockne Memorial was built in 1937. There was, however, no organized swim team until a group tried in 1941. That year there were only two meets, with Indiana and Chi­cago Universities, and both ended in defeat for the inexperienced Irish squad. The meets took place in May after two weeks of practice, and the group really put on an excellent show­ing, the scores being 47J/2 to 37J4 and 47 to 36. Then graduation came, and the effort was defeated by international complications. 
Prospects are very good for the new varsity team in the coming season. Only three members have been lost through graduation, and some of the brightest stars of last year will be sophomores in their varsity debiit. 
1958-59 SGHEDULE December 7 Loyola Relays at Loyola University, Chicago 13 Triangular Meet at Notre Dame: Detroit Institute of Technology University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 
January 10 North Central College at Notre Dame 15 Indianapolis Athletic Club 
at Notre Dame 24 Central Michigan at Notre Dame 
February 7 Ohio University at Notre Dame 11 Bowling Green State University 
at Notre Dame 14 Western Michigan at Note Dame 19 Riviera Club of Indianapolis 
at Indianapolis 21 St Louis University at St Louis U. 25 Loyola University at Loyola 

Afarch 7 Midwest Invitational Meet at North Central College 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 25 
visiting professor at Notre Dame from 
the Catholic Institute of Paris, makes a 
deft comparison between the Richelieu-
NOTRE DAME BOOKS Mettemich exchange and such notes 
as those exchanged today by Eisen­hower and Khrushchev: 

DIPLOMACY'S GOLDEN AGE 

J 
FRANCE AND THE EUROPEAN ALLIANCE, 1816-1821: Th e private Correspondence between Mettemich and Richelieu, Rev. Guillaume de Bertier de Sauvigny, i C.J.M., University of Notre Dame [ Press, Notre Dame. 130 pp. plus 13 't pp. introduction. $4.75. 
\ In 1815 France was on her knees I before the Allied Powers, Austria, j Great Britain, Prussia, and Russia. I Twice her armies had been smashed by '• the European coalition. She had been [ shorn of all the territorial conquests of , the Revolutionar)' and Napoleonic eras. 
She owed hundreds of millions of francs in war indemnities and was spending other millions to support 150,000 Allied troops occupying her border provinces. Internally she was torn by conflicts between vindictive royalists, moderates and discredited liberals. 
The successor to Talleyrand, chosen by Louis XVIII to guide the country out of the rubble of her empire and back toward her destiny as a world power, was Armand-Emmanuel du Plessis, Due de Richelieu, descended from the brother of the brilliant Cardi­nal, an emigrant, soldier of Russia and friend of Czar Alexander. 
Father de Bertier uses the letters be­tween Richelieu and the head of Aus­trian diplomacy as a backdrop for his description of France's relations with the European powers after these dark days. This correspondence (in its original French) is published together for the first time, providing precious insights, not only into the characters of Mettemich and the virtually un­known Frenchman, but also into the maneuvers of France with the Alliance to reduce and finally end occupation, settle war debts and regain some of her morale in the face of inevitable defeat. 
Its publication underwritten by the Ford Foundation, the book is a valu­able addition to nineteenth-centur)' histor)'. Although limited in scope, it affords glimpses at the panorama of post-Napoleonic Europe and a parade of great diplomats—kings, nobles and commoners. 
In his introduction Father Bertier, a 
Professor Arnold E. Koss, head of the mathematics department, demonstrates graphically during a tele\-ised summer school class on "Boolean Algebra," the University's first experi­ment in teaching via closed-circuit TV. 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 
"In modem diplomacy the exchange  
of personal messages between heads of  
states or governments is becoming an  
increasingly popular practice. The  
world press often carries such docu­ 
ments. It is quite obvious that when  
publicity is anticipated these messages  
must have been carefully drafted by  
the policy makers of the foreign offices  
and that the subscriber has had little  
to do besides giving his general agree­ 
ment and penning his name. Often,  
also, these documents, when intended  
for the public, may be considered more  
like propaganda than diplomatic in­ 
struments.  
"Such was not tlie case in the first  
decades of the last century at a time  .  
that may be considered the golden age  
of classical diplomacy. Correspond­ '  
ence between heads of governments was  
genuinely private and designed to re­ 
main so. Such correspondence was one  
of the most valuabe weapons in the  
arsenal of diplomacy."  
ADVENTURE IN LAOS  
THE EDGE OF TOMORROW,  
Thomas A. Dooley, M.D. Illus­ 
trated with map and photos. Farrar,  
Straus & Cudahy, New York. 208  
pp. $3.75.  
A sequel to Dr. Dooley's best-selling  
"Deliver Us From Evil," which de­ 
scribed the flight of a million Viet­ 
namese refugee s from communist  
tyranny in North Indo-China, this book  *  
has been widely discussed and was  
recently condensed by The Reader's  
Digest. It is an account of his private  j  
medical mission to the red-threatened  
jungles of Laos in southeastern Asia.  
In a New York Times review,  
Charles Poore says: "Although Thom­ 
as Dooley cannot play Bach as well as  ^  
Albert Schweitzer, he shares with that  
illustrious humanitarian a dedication to  
the establishment of harmony in the  
unquiet spirit of man.  
"The role is somewhat trying for a  j  
wild young Irishman. Yet under Dr.  
Schweitzer's inspiration Dr. Dooley has  '*  
risked his life a good many times to  ^  
save lives in shadowy comers of the  
world. His new book .. . is a breezy  
and remarkably compelling narrative  
of his adventures in the Kingdom of  
Laos, once a French possession. . . .  

Five Notre Dame professors retired at the end of the last school year. They are (seated, left to right) Gilbert Coty, professor of modern languages; Thomas Madden, professor of English; Prof. Frank Horan of the civil engineering department; (standing) Paul Byrne, curator of the University Galleries and Notre Dame librarian from 1925 to 1952; and Prof. Elton Richter of the Notre Dame Law- School. The five men have ser>-ed the University a total of 170 years. 
When Dr. Dooley, fresh out of the HISTORICAL ROMANCE Navj', went there a couple of years ago, 
THE UNDISCOVERED COUN­
the new nation had just one doctor TRY, Jay and Aubrey Walz, Duell, who measured up to Western medical Sloane & Pearce, Inc., New York. 
standards. . . . His friends in America 390 pp. $4.95. 
suggested he might better start a The husband-and-wife writing team prosperous medical practice at home. 
of Mr. and Mrs. Jay AValz, '29, have 
But neither prudent reason nor diplo­come up with a new historical novel matic entanglements could stop Dooley. 

which deals with the romance between "Neither the American Ambassador Elisha Kent Kane, an Arctic explorer, to Laos nor the countr)''s rulers and a spiritualist medium named Mag­
 were enthusiastic about his idea of setting up gie Fox. The title is a provocative one, his independent medical unit near the suggesting a dual wilderness, the Arctic Chinese border. . . . But, after a far continent and the world of the spirit. 
from dry run at a village near Vien­The AValzes are fascinated by lesser tiane, the capital, Dooley's Irregulars known stories from America's past. were permitted to go up to the pesilen-They will be remembered as co-authors tial jungle country near the border of of a former best-seller, "The Bizarre Red China. By that time they won a Sisters." lot of friends, cured a lot of people and 
Natives of South Bend, Jay and trained devoted Laos volunteers to Aubrey AValz once wrote for the old help them in their work on medical and 
News-Times. Jay is now in Ankara, 
political frontiers. . . •. Americans in Turkey, as a correspondent for the Newthe capital of Laos said disparagingly 
York Times, and Mrs. Walz is busy 
that Dooley's Irregulars practiced nine-with research for a new—and still teenth-centur)' medicine, and he agreed secret—literary effort. 
completely, adding: • 


STORY OF GREECE 

" 'Upon our departure our indige­nous personnel would practice eight­IVAN AND ARTEMIS, Dr. Panos D. eenth-century medicine. Good, this is Bardis. Pageant Press, Inc., New progress, since most of the villagers York.' 197 pp. $3.00.' lived in the fifteenth centurw' " This novel deals with commimist guerrilla warfare in Greece after World/ War II. - Its story centers around com­mimist activities in a southern Greek town in 1947i Yannis Hythlopoulos,. who has adopted the name Ivan, tries to win over the youth of the town to commimism. Failing in this, he abducts the young people to a mountain strong­hold to force them to join his guerrilla band. Opposing Ivan is Polynices Anthopoulos, 14-year-old son of a wealthy widow. When Polynices , is killed, Artemis, his university-trained sister, subverts the communist camp and helps crystallize a movement with­in the red ranks that ends in a revolt. 
Dr. Bardis, '53, tempers the brutality of his story with many pages of Greek lore, customs and evocations of the past. An associate professor of soci­ology at Albion College, he also %vrites verse and short stories. 
LAW 
(Continued from Page 4) in attendance at the American Bar meeting are urged to attend the luncheon. 
Law Leads 
Of the 46 men who have served as president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association in the last 50 years, 30 have been lawyers — that is, 65.2% of the total. 
Faculty Notes 
Professor Kellenberg has been granted a leave of absence and ^vill spend the academic year 1958-59 at the Yale Law-School •ivriting a book on the law of real property. There is real need for a first-rate, up-to-date, one-volume treatise in this field. He has been awarded a grant by Yale to assist him in his project. 
Mr. Jan Krasnowiecki will join the faculty on September 1. He holds the following degrees from 0.xford Uni-; versity, England: B-A., B.C.L., MJi. In 1952-53 he was a Bigelow Teaching Fellow at the University of Chicago . Law School. After service in the United ; States Army, he spent a year at the i Harvard Law School, where he was : awarded the LL.M. degree in 1956. •. According to Dean O'Meara, "Profes^ sor Krasnowiecki has real promise of ; teaching and scholarly achievement." 
Dean O'Meara has been named a ', member of an Advisory Committee of • The William Allanson White Psychi-j atric Foundation, which is shortly to . undertake an important study relating j to law and mental illness. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 
Mitchell Address 
Continued from page 13 

"I say advocacj', because what we have here is good and valuable and rooted in matters of the spirit. But we should not argue our ideals, as we sometimes argue our technical prowess, from the same ground as that occupied by our adversaries. 
"AVhere the communists send forth false ideological missionaries, we should send forth men who, while they recognize and tell the truth about our economy and our social institutions, are nevertheless informed by a higher truth. Economics is not, as the communists say, the cure-all and end-all of man's quest for ultimate happiness. Economic well-being helps him toward that goal: it does not provide the fuIiiUment. For man's happiness ultimately flows from his spiritual well being." 
Stressing our strength, the Secretarj­pointed out: "There is no effective com­petition for our kind of unit)-. It is a unit)­of the spirit, a rallying point for mankind. 
"What binds together the Chinese com­munist and the Russian communist? The Italian communist and the Vietminhese? It is an im-alid materialistic philosophy which provides the comforting assurance that one day the hardships and sacrifices they have been forced to endure w-ill be compensated for when the technical plant is built and the economy is in full motion. It has nothing to offer, in the end, but it continues to hold out the old, dr)- dream of a classless state which becomes a nightmare of repression and the crushing of the in­dividual. 
"We have something better than this to offer. But too often we talk as if we did not. 
"We speak of all the things in .American life which are of secondar)- importance— our 125 million automobiles, our 45 million refrigerators, our 38 million television sets." 
The speaker added: "What we Ameri­cans do not speak of is the way of life which has set us apart from the commu­nists—and which unites us to all people 
Dr. John Sloan Dickey, president of Dart­mouth College, confers an honorary doc­torate on Father Hesburgh, who delivered the commencement address at Dartmouth's 1958 graduation ceremonies. 
cver)-\vhere in search of peace, self-detemii­nation, and the ever-unfolding drama of a free people seeking a larger liberty and an enlarged dignit)-. 
"A national magazine reported recently that a poll it had taken overseas showed that 89 percent of the Western Europeans it inters-iewed were more or less conv-inccd that the .American economic system is not competitive and is largely controlled by big private monopolies. Only 31 percent had a good opinion of .American morals and fam­ily life. 
"This confusion in the world about us points up our challenge. and our abiding duty—to reveal to ourselves and to the people of the world the true nature of American life. 
"Tell the world, gentlemen of the Lady of the Lake, that here is an idea that serves and honors God and man." 
Viewing the cornerstone of the new Moreau Seminary during cer%ji.onics last Ma> arc (left to right) Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., director of province development; Rev. Paul Rankin, C.S.C., present Moreau superior; Father Hesburgh; Rev. Bernard MuUahy, C5.C., assistant provincial, and Rev. Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C., provincial superior. 
28 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 
Archbishop 
Continued from page 14 

the battle between art and techniques. It needs a coordination between discipline and experience and a balancing between the dis­coveries of the eye and the revelations of faith. 
"A baccalaureate occasion is the Church's final reminder to her scholars, while they are still under academic restraint, that he who walks the ^vays of religion ma)- often seem out of place in a world that cannot and does not make an act of faith because it has not had the vision of all Truth of which you have had the advantage." 
The Archbishop concluded: "This is Notre Dame's last salute to you, the grad­uates. Having made it, the University kneels before the God of truth in homage and in gratitude, linking the classrooms where you have learned to the altar from which comes the fulness of the truth which the Univer­sit)- has explored and explained. The Uni­versit)- is most anxious that the parade from the sanctuary to the platform will dramatically expose the meaning of the commencement you will soon undertake." 
PRIESTS CELEBRATE SILVER JUBILEE 

Twenty Holy Cross priests, including Right Rev. Christopher J. O'Toole, C.S.C., superior general, and Theodore 
J. Mehling, C.S.C., provincial superior, recently celebrated the 25 th anniversary of their ordination to the priesthood. 
Among the priests on campus cele­brating their silver jubilee were Rev. Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C.; Rev. Joseph 
N. Gan'in, C.S.C.; Rev. James P. Gibbons, C.S.C.; Rev. Thomas J. Lane, C.S.C., and Rev. Regis H. Riter, C.S.C. 
Priests assigned to the University of Portland celebrating their 25th anniver­saries include Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C, formerly a Notre Dame vice president, now director of the Portland Foundation: Rev. George L. Dunn, C.S.C.; Rev. William J. ' Coughlan, C.S.C.; Rev. Cornelius A. Hooyoer, C.S.C., Rev. John A. Molter, C.S.C.j and Rev. John W. Scheberie, C.S.C. 
Priests in Pakistan ordained for 25 yeai-s include Rev. John J. Harrington, C.S.C, recently appointed superior of Holy Cross Foreign Missions; Rev. Walter R. Marks, C.S.C; Rev. Joseph 
F. Voorde, C.S.C, and Rev. Charles 
J. Young, CS.C 
Silver jubilees were also celebrated by Rev. Bernard L. McAvoy, superior of Holy Cross College, Washington, 
D. C ; Rev. Archibald McDowall, CS.C, Sacred Heart Church, New Orleans, La., and Rev. George J. AVelsh, Holy Cross Church, South Bend. 
Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ARIZONA Idaho Falls—James M. Brady, '29, P.O. KANSAS 
Phoenix—A. Carlton Gilbert, '49, 4710 E. Clarendon, Phoenix, Ariz. Tucson—Kenneth J. Bayly, '50, 15 East Alameda St., Tucson, Ariz. 
ARKANSAS 

Fort Smith — Burley Johnston, Jr., '40, Quality Flowers, 925 Garrison, Ft. Smith, Arkansas. 
Little Rock—]amcs E. Madigan, '43, 4617 Crestwood, Little Rock, Ark. 
CALIFORNIA 

Central—Dr. John W. Frye, '43, 3895 E. Princeton Ave., Fresno, Calif. Los Angeles—Donley L. Brady, '49, 310 S. Tyler .'Vvc., El Monte, Calif. Northern—Edward F. Mansfield, '34, 523 West Hillsdale, San Mateo, Calif. 
Orange County—Willard R. Vangen, '49, 11732 Blue Jay Lane, Garden Grove, Cal. San Diego—F. J. Davis, '48, 5246 Maple 
St., San Diego 5, Calif. 

COLORADO Denver—]amcs P. Sheehan, '50, 1970 S. Stuart St., Denver, Colo. Southern Colorado—^A. Jack Thomas, '49, 3222 Re.x St., Pueblo, Colo. 
CONNECTICUT Connecticut Valley—Louis A. Bergeron, '52, 90 Sylvan Ave,, Mcriden, Conn. Fairfield County—Robert K. Griffin, '45, 33 Edna Ave., Bridgeport, Conn. Naugatuck—William R. Dwyer, '55, 152 Wall St., Waterbur)-, Conn. New Haven—Edward A. Byrne, '26, 818 Edgewood .\\e., New Haven, Conn. DELAWARE Charles A. Wolfe, Jr., 312 Holly Oak Rd., Gwinhurst, Wilmington 3, Del. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA John .•\. McGrath, '48, 5301 Muncaster Mill . Rd., Rockville, Md. 
FLORIDA Central—Roy B. Laughlin, '48, 2626 Nor­folk Rd., Oriando, Fla. Fort Lauderdale — Frank J. McDonough, '41, 2675 N.E. 25th St., Lighthouse Point, Pompano Beach, Fla. Greater Miami—Charles E. Maher, '35, 138 
N.E. 92nd St., Miami Shores, Fla. 

North Florida—Fred H. Baumer, '22, 4731 Blackburn Rd., Jacksonville, Fla. 

St. Petersburg-Tampa—Roy J. Deeb, '48, 
Peninsular Bldg. Supply Co., 114 13th St. North, St. Petersburg, Fla. 
GEORGIA 

^J/antfl—Richard deOolian, '40, P.O. Bo.x 973, Atlanta 1, Ga. 
IDAHO 

Francis Neitzel, '23, 410 North 11th, Boise, Idaho. 
Box 581, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS 

Aurora—Robert J. Reams, '43, 528 Oak -•^ve., Aurora, III. Central Illinois—Edward G. Coleman, '50, 2147 S. Walnut,St., Springfield, 111. C/iiVago—John F. Moriey, '35, 10432 S. Hamilton, Chicago, 111. i)eca/ur—Bernard A. Marty, '37, 1606 W. Forest, Decatur, 111. Eastern Illinois—Ernest F. Sedlma)T, '46, 611 Douglas ."^ve., Danville, 111. Fox Valley—George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St., Elgin, 111. Joliel—^John Lux, Jr., '53, c/o Herald News, 78 Scott St., Joliet, 111. 
Kankakee Valley — Man'in O. Huot, '33, 964 S. Evergreen Ave., Kankakee, 111. ??oria—Richard Walsh, '45, 210 Northland 
-•^ve., Peoria, III. fiocA/orrf—Philip Carey, '40, c/o Ditto, Inc., 1014 Charles St., Rockford, 111. 
Rock River Valley—John H. Cahill, '33, 
1002 Galena Ave., DLxon, III. 

Southern Cook County—^.'Vngelo A. Ciam­
bronc, '57, 168 Hawthorne Lane, Chicago Heights, 111. . INDIANA 

Calumet District — William J. O'Connor, '51, Calvin, Galvin and Leeney, 7th Floor Calumet Bldg., Hammond, Ind. Eastern Indiana—^Edward DLxon, '48, 523 Johnson Bldg., Muncie, Ind. Elkhart—James Cavanagh, '20, 437 E. Beardsley, Elkhart, Ind. Evansuille—Fred Theis, '36, 217 S.E. 8th St., Evansville, Ind. Fort Wayne—Robert J. Klingenberger, '51, 2634 Marcy Lane, Ft. Wayne, Ind. Indianapolis—Leo A. Barnhorst, '49, 4141 Bro^vn Rd., Indianapolis 18, Ind. Michigan Cil)—Louis E. Black, '49, 125 Orchard Dr., Michigan City, Ind. 
St. Joseph Valley—John N, Cacklcy, '37, 
Foundation Office, Notre Dame, Ind. Terre Haute—Dmic Cavender, '46, 22 W. College, Harrisburg, III. 
IVabash Valley^James W. Glaser, '50, 139 
E. Oak St.,- West Lafayette, Ind. IOWA 

Burlington—^Dr. Donal C. Petersen, '42, 511 F & M Bank Bldg., Burlington, Iowa. Cedar Rapids—Steve Provost, '49, 623 27th 
St. N.E., Cedar Rapids, Io\va. Des Moines—Robert M. Cannon, '47, 650 39th St., Des Moines 12, Iowa. Dubuque—Rev, William Kunsch, '37, Loras College, Dubuque, Iowa. Sioux-Land—^Robert A. Maiming, '36 (vice­pres.), 721 33rd St., Sioux City, Iowa. Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, 
E. Moline)—Roy .\. Bush, '49, 313 E: Central Park, Davenport, Iowa. 
Notre 

Eastern Kansas—T. Heniry Devlin, '49,' 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. Salina — Thomas Kennedy, '51, 1900 Geb­hart, Salina, Kansas. IfiVAi/a—Theodore P. Jochems, '40, 402 N. Roosevelt, Wichita 8, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY 

Leo J. Brown, Jr., '50, 3721 Willmar .Ave., Louisville 5, Ky. 
LOUISIANA 

/I rfc-La-Tex—George J. Despot, '45, 517 Market, Shreveport, La. 
New Orleans—James E. Smith, '50, 512 
Crystal, New Orleans 24, La. 
MAINE 

Raymond A. Geiger, '32, c/o Geiger Bros., Lemston, Me. 
MARYLAND 

Baltimore—Francis Herb, '37, 16 Thomhill Rd., Luthervillc, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS 

Boston—Richard P. Hyland, '50, 27 Mom­ingsidc Dr., Walpole, Mass. 
Pioneer Valley—Arthur L. Demers, '35, 17 
Gillette Ave., Springfield, Mass. 
MICHIG.'VN Battle Creek—Raymond R. .'Ulen, '40, 409 
Orchard Place, Battle Creek, Mich. Berrien County—^Dr. Paul Leotiard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, Niles, Mich. Blue Water District—William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. ­Dearborn—^John E. Courtney, '50, 200 John Daly Rd., Inkster, Mich. Detroit—Joseph H. Carey, '32, 19965 Briar­cliff, Detroit 21, Mich. Flint—James J. Sherry, Jr., '36, 10440 State Rd., Goodrich, Mich. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan— 
John D. Deeb, '51, Deeb, Dunn & Elfer­dink, Suite 600 Michigan Trust Bldg., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Hiawathaland—Robert F. Voelkcr, '39, Box 
88, Stephenson, Mich. Iron Range—^Eugene R. Zinn, 105 Brogan Bldg., Ironwood, Mich, yacfcion—James F. Mortell, '49, 609 S. Higby, Jackson, Mich. Kalamazoo — Robert Shields, '35, 1822 Grand .\ve., Kalamazoo, Mich. A/onroe—Charles J. Golden, '48, 35 E. Front St., Monroe, Mich. Muskegon—John D. Fitzpatricfc, '33, 1278 Palmer Blvd., Muskegon, Mich. Saginaw Valley—Vincent T. Boyle, '49, 1124 W. Main St., Midland, Mich. 
Top of Michigan—'Edward L. Moloney, 
'17, 416 East State St., Cheboygan, Mich. 
MINNESOTA 

Duluth-Superior—James P. Keough (treas­urer), 2705 East Fifth St, Duluth, Minn. 
Dame Aliimnus, AugustrSeptember, 1958 29 
Twin Cities—^James C. Rogers, '53, 1350 Delaware, St. Paul 7, Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI William P. Condon, '39 (vice-pres.), 718 Washington, Grccmnlle, Miss. 
>nssouRi 

Kansas City—(Mo. and Kans.)—Edward 
F. Aylward, '48, 922 Walnut St., Kansas City 6, Mo. 

St. LouiV—Thomas J. McGuire, Jr., '49, 907 Coffey Dr., St. Louis 19, Mo. 
MONTANA Bernard Grainey, '43, 905 11th Avenue, Helena, Mont. NEBRASKA Omaha and Council Bluffs—^Herb Sampson, '50, 541 South 69th St., Omaha, Neb. 
NEW JERSEY Central—^Dan Grace, '51, 406 Accacia Rd., Scotch Plains, N. J. New Jersey—Raymond Troy, '34, 35 Essex Ave., Montclair, N. J. South Jersey—Koheit W. Nickol, '37, 424 Tavistocic Blvd., Haddonfield, N. J. 
NT;W MEXICO George A. Schreiber, '41, 901 Loma Linda, S.E., Albuquerque, N. M. 
NEW YORK Bu#<j;o—John A. LaVignc, '49, H I Hamil­ton Blvd., Kenmore 17, N. Y. Capital District—C. F. Regan, Jr., '27, 1592 New Scotland Rd., Box 158, Slinger-lands, N. Y. Centra/—William A. Biser, '29, 212 Han­cock Dr., Syracuse 4, N. Y. Golden CiVc/e — Russell J. Jandoli, '40 (vice-pres.), 13 Whittingham Terr., Mil-bum, N. J. Mid-Hudson Valley — Anthony J. Buono, '43, 120 Elm St., Saugcrtics, N. Y. 
Mohawk Valley—Dr. Daniel C. Shaugh­ness}-, '30, 115 Green St., Herkimer, N. Y. New York City—Stephen Mulvcy, '51, 68 
Stcbbins, Tuckahoc 7, N. Y. Northern—Joseph R. Brandy, '21, Box 267, Ogdensburg, N. Y. Rochester—J. Richard Klee, '47, 149 Var­ina Dr., Rochester 10, N. Y. Schenectady—^Leon St. Pierre, '55, c/o G. E. Company, P. O. Box 1088, Schenectady, 
N. Y. Southern Tier—Edwin Bonham, '09, 329 Hamilton St., Painted Post, N. Y. 
Triple Cities—GcoTgc J. Haines, '42, 126 Laurel Ave., Binghamton, N. Y. 
NORTH DAKOTA William Daner, '53, 1106 So. Highland Acres, Bismarck, North Dakota. 
OHIO 

Akron—Robert J. Kapish, '52, 271 Madi­son Ave., Akron, Ohio. 
Canton — James F. Weber, '57, Editorial Dept., Canton Repository, 500 Market Ave., South, Canton, Ohio. 
Cincinnati—Stephen P. Heekin, '50, 9242 Sherry Lee, Cincinnati 30, Ohio. C/e»«/anif—Ray T. Miller, Jr., '51, 1708 Union Commerce Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio. 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 
Co/um6tu—Dr. J. Joseph Hughes, '31, 987 Grandvicw .Ave., Columbus, Ohio. Dayton—Paul Lammers, '48, 852 Hodapp, 
• Dajton, Ohio. Hamilton—Jerome A. Ryan, '41, 353 South "D" St., Hamilton, Ohio. Northwestern—^\ViIliam R. Shanahan, '50, 576 W. Grand Ave., Lima, Ohio. Ohio Valley—Robert Sincavich, '50, 2079 Louisa .Ave,, Wheeling, W. Va. Sandusk)' —Allied A. Schnurr, Jr., '28, 1101 W. Jefferson St., Sandusky, Ohio. Tiffin—Tred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St, Tiffin, Ohio. Toledo—^Francis Malone, '45, 3237 Ald­ringham, Toledo 6, Ohio. 
Youngstown — R. Griff Allen, '44, 2230 Burma Drive, Youngstown, Ohio. 
OKLAHOMA 

Oklahoma City—Charles L. Monnot, Jr., '34. 1414 N.W. 37th, Oklahoma City, Okla. 
Tulsa—John H. Comvay, '44, 2927 E. 26th Place, Tulsa, Okla. 
OREGON 

Charles Slatt, '33, 2835 N.E. 19th .'^ve., Portland 12, Oregon. 
PENNSYLVANIA 

Central Pennsylvania — William S. Clear, '30, 503 Coleridge Ave., Altoona, Pa. Erie—John McCormick, Jr., '53, 910 Wash­
ington Place, Erie, Pa. ffarrtjiurg-Donald R. Meek, '50, 1932 Carlisle Rd., Camp Hill, Pa. 
Lehigh Valley—William F. Martin, '44, 2733 Washington St., Allentown, Pa. Monongahela Valley—-Louis W. Apone, '41, 
321 Market St., Bro\vnsvillc, Pa. Philadelphia—Wait Grothaus, Jr., '50, 133 Barcladen Rd., Roseraont, Pa. Pi/(i6urg/i—Charles L. Christen, '52, 3716 Rebecca St., Pittsburgh 34, Pa. Scranton—^Thomas J. Harrington, '34, 105 Washington Rd., Scranton, Pa. Wilkes-Barre — Rajmond J. Sobota, '49, 760 Miners Bank, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Williamsport—VTank B. Lundy, '56, 1305 Woodmont Ave., Williamsport, Pa. RHODE ISLANT5 AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS Paul Hoefflcr, '25, 812 Industrial Trust Bldg., Proridence 3, Rhode Island. SOUTH CAROLINA William J. Dunham, '53, 16 Tyler St., Greem-ille, S. C. 
SOUTH DAKOTA Black Hills — Bernard Gira, '10, Custer, South Dakota. 
TENNESSEE C/wKanooga—Thomas B. Owen, '35, 4004 Wiley Ave., Chattanooga, Tenn. Memphis—Raymond Moran, '54, 1886 Monticello Dr., Memphis, Tenn. 
TEXAS 

KaZto—Lancaster Smith, '50, 8638 Win-gate Dr., Dallas, Texas. El Paso—Vf. Gorman Brock, '49, 2319 Tre­mont St., El Paso, Texas. 
1958 
Houston—Leighton F. Young, '37, P.O. Box 2558, Houston, Texas. Midland-Odessa — John L. Buckley, '38, 2212 Har\-ard, Midland, Texas. Rio Grande Valley—Robert Aziz, '49, 1205 
W. Elizabeth, Brownsville, Te.xas. San Antonio—^John M. O'Connell, '53, 146 
E. ."Vgarita, San Antonio 12, Texas. 
UTAH 

Jack W. Galliran, '37, 1017 Kearns Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
VIRGINIA 

Charles A. LaFratta, '47, 2707 Lincoln, Richmond, Va. Tidewater — Philip L. Russo, '49, 8107 Wedgewood Drive, Norfolk, Va. 
WASHINGTON 

Spokane—William L. Wolter, '35 (vice­pres.), 414 W. 29th Ave., Spokane, Wash. 
Western — Theodore P. Cummings, '44, Dorc, Cummings & Dubuar, 905 .Ameri­can Bldg., Seattle 4, Wash. 
WEST VIRGINIA 

George W. Thompson, Jr., '41, 5104 Staun­ton Ave. S.E., Charleston, W. Va. Cen/rai—John D. Julian, '40, P.O. Box 2063, Clarksburg, W. Va. 
AVISCONSIN 

Fox River Ffl//e>'—Patrick F. Coughlin, '50, 110 S. Oneida St., Appleton, Wis. Green Bay—^Joseph A. Neufeld, '44, Box 17, Green Bay, Wis. LaCrosse—Joseph Becker, '50, 515 State Bank Bldg., LaCrosse, Wis. JVfern'Zi—Augustus H. Stange, 102 S. Pros­pect, Merrill, Wis. il/iZ»oaut««—Walter O. Schneider, 54, 2861 
North 76th, .•\pt. 4, Milwaukee 10, Wis. Northwest Wisconsin—C. T, Downs, '33, 311 >/: So. Farwell St., Eau Claire, Wis. 
South Central—Thomas W. Frost, '30, 115 Ely PL, Madison, Wis. Southeastern—Edwin E. Raymond, Jr., '49, 2820 21st St., Racine, Wis. 
HAWAH 

Walter Tagawa, '52, 3939 Monterey Place, Honolulu 16, T. H. 
FOREIGN CLUBS 

Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C, '24 (key man), Moreau House, 28 Zin­dabahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. 
Canada—Paul H. LaFramboise, '34, 400 Charest Blvd., Quebec, Canada. Manila—John F. Gotuaco, '24, 1316 Penn­sylvania, Manila, Philippines. Mexico City — Telmo DeLandero, '37, Eugenio Sue 220, Mexico City. Panama—William J. Sheridan, '34, Box 98, Balboa Heights, Canal Zone. Peru—Enrique Lull!, '45, Cuzco 440, Lima, Peru. 
Puerto iJico—Vice-Pres.: Paul McManus, '34, B&M Products Co., Box 2695, San Juan, Puerto Rico. 
Rome—Secrctar)': Vincent G. McAloon, '34, Hotel Alicomi, \'ia Scossacai-alli, Rome, Italy. 
CALENDAR 
Regularly scheduled club meetings that have been reported to the Alumni Office are as follows: 
BUFFALO—First Tuesday of every month at 8:30 p.m.. Hotel Sheraton, 715 Dela­^vare Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. In addition, a table marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo" is reserved for lunch at K. of C , 506 Dela^vare Ave., Buffalo, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 
CENTRAL OHIO—First Monday (night) of every month. Junior Rose Room, Vir­ginia Hotel, Columbus, Ohio. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—Second Wed­nesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High St., Perth Amboy, 
N. J. 
CHICAGO—First Monday of each month, luncheon, at 12:15 p.m.. Western Society of Engineers Club, 84 E. Randolph, Chicago. 
DECATUR — Monthly luncheons, fourth Wednesday of every month at Greider's Cafe, North Water Street, Decatur, 111. 
DETROIT—^First Thursday of each month, luncheon, at 12 noon, Calvert Catering, opposite Blessed Sacrament Cathedral on Woodward Ave., Detroit. 
ERIE—First Friday dinner meeting with wives, Ander's Restaurant, 7:00 p.m.. Sept thru June, Erie, Pa. 
FORT LAUDERDALE—Second Thursday of each month, dinner, at 7:30 p.m.. Gov­ernor's Club Hotel, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
KANSAS CITY—Weekly luncheons, Thurs­days at Famous Restaurant, Kansas City, Mo. 
MIAMI—First Thursday (night) of every month at the Urmey Hotel, 34 S.E. 2nd Ave., Downtown Miami. 
NEAV JERSEY—Informal monthly lunch­eon at Kelly's Seafood Restaurant in downtown Ne%vark, first Friday of each 
• month. 
OKLAHOMA. CITY — First Monday of each month, night, check McFarland's Drive-In Theater, Oklahoma City, Okla., for details. 
PHILADELPHIA—Second Tuesday of each month (night) at the Philopatrian Club, Philadelphia, Pa. PITTSBURGH—Weekly luncheon at the Variety Club, Tuesday, in the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, Pittsburgh, Pa., at 12 noon. 
ROCHESTER — Monthly luncheon, first Monday, at 12 noon. Powers Hotel, Rochester, N. Y. (If this is a holiday, meeting is held on second Monday.) 
ST. LOUIS—Monthly luncheon, stag, 12 noon. Key Club in Hotel Jefferson, St. Louis, Mo., second Monday of each month. 
SOUTHWESTERN WISCONSIN — First Friday of cverj' month, noon luncheon get-together, at the Racine Elks Club, Racine. 
WASHLNGTON — Weekly luncheon, each Tuesday, 12 noon. Touchdown Club, 1414 I Street N.W., Washington, D. C. 
WILKES-B.ARRE—First Tuesday of every month, luncheon meeting, 12:15 p.m., in the main dining room. Hotel Sterling, AVilkes-Barre, Pa. 

In the previous issue of the ALUMNUS, many of the omitted Universal Notre Dame Night reports had not been received by press time. (It must be stressed that press require­ments now involve almost a month of typesetting, proofing, printing and mailing between the receipt of copy and the receipt of the magazine by the reader.) Many of the UJfJ). Night mentions were matters of record and not the Club reports. And may the Editors remind Clubs once again that one of the great values of events is to report them, with pictures if possible, to the local press, the diocesan press, and certainly to the ALUMNUS. 
Akron 
GERRY KLEIN, '32, closed a most successful 
vcar as Akron Club Prc-cy on UXD Niglit .April 14. 
bean and Jfrs. JAMES W. CULLITON were honor 
guests at the dinner meeting held at The Altron 
City Club. The purpose or underlying theme of 
our 1958 UXD Night \%'as to acquaint local edu­
cators, business and indtistry leaders with our 
Alma Mater . . . therefore. Dr. Culliton addressed 
his inspiring message to Board of Education officials. 
High School Principals, Area College Administrators, 
non-alumai business and industry* leaders . . . and 
of course the w*ives of these distinguished guests 
.. . in addition to the Alumni and their wives. 
BILL BURKHARDT, '33, and his lovely ivife hosted a cocktail party preceding dinner allowing our many non-alumni guests to meet informally the Dean and Mrs. Culliton. The Akron Club is very grateful to Bill for the time and energy he devoted to making our 1958 UXD Night a mem­orable success. 
Toastmaster for the affair was our own MURRY POWERS, '23. FATHER LEON BOARMAN, C.S.C., '33, was our Chaplain for the evening. JOHN KELLY 4: and 46, an Akron City Law Director set in for. the Mayor of Akron. Bill Burkhardt and the writer co-chairmancd the alTaii^and were ably assisted by BRUCE RAFF, '49, and JACK HUiLMEL, '49, on decorations; BOB KOLB. '3t, on tickets; JOHN DETTLING, '21, and BILL AHERN, '39, on floral arrange­ments; FRANK STEEL, '25, JOE KRAKER, '29, and TO.M BOTZUM, '49, on ticket sales; CHAR­LEV GREEN, '41, and LARRY SUTTER, '49, on the door. 
HUGH COLOPY, =33, was presented with the Man of the Year award on UND Night. Certainly a more deserving recipient does not exist. . . . Hugh has served his time in the management of our Alumni Club, a past President (late 40's} and currently enjoj's the role of elder statesman . . . ever ready to help when called upon. More recently Hugh gives of his time and energy in civic afTairs. . . . Dix-ision Head in our 1958 U.F. drive, acti\-ity in the Democratic Party and a past Presi­dency' of. the Akron Bar Association arc but a few of his cxtracurriculars, and there are more to be sure. A successful practicing attorney, Hugh is devoted to his charming wife, Lydia, and lively seven-year-old son, Danny. AX'e are indeed proud to have Hugh ^I. Colopy our 1958 Man of the Year. Bouquets to the selection committee, FR.ANK STEEL, '25 (chairman), BOB KOLB, '34, and ED R/\UB, '23. 
Tile Akron Alumni Club installed the new officers for the year on UND Night: BOB K,\PISH, '52, as President; D/\N MOTZ, '54, as Vice President; JOHN DARJVGO, '34, as Treasurer (consented to remain another term and we are grateful because, for those w-ho arc uninformed. John's business is banking): and GEORGE DEK.\NY, '49, as Secretary. Bob Kapish as the new Prcxy has his motor run­ning already .. . planning a general ovcrhatd of the Club's manner of procedure—a difficult job, to be sure, but certainly most worthy and necessary. In addition he set the stage for a successful GoU Outing held late in July. . . . Details of this in the next issue. 
This year's general meeting for election of offi­cers is worthy of mention for two important rea­sons. First the meeting was held in the home of MAURY WTLSH, '25, and we had some 40 to 30 in attendance with room for more. Maury is a widower, raising his family of seven youngsters himself (and a cheerful, w*onderful family it is), then wc barge in on his insistent inntation. A perfect host and indeed a wonderful guy. Secondiv, wc had a guest, JOHN McCAULEY, from the campus. By coincidence John popped into town on ^larch 4 and JoTned our meeting that evening . . . giving us an opportunity to learn more about the Foundation and'its aims as well as how we can help individually by giving at least once a year, no matter how little . . . just giving some every vcar. 

—GEORGE DEK.ANY, '49, Secy. 
Baltimore 

Universal Xotre Dime Night for the Baltimore Club was held on April 14 in the Sea Girt Room of Thompson's Restaumnt on York Road In Bait!' more. 
The program included a film on iCotre Dame, sup­plied by the Foundation, %vhich proved very inter­esting. The new ilatc of officers for the coming vear were presented by out-going President FRANK SANDERA. These ^vere as follou-s: FRANCIS HERB, '37, President; CHARLES NORTON, '39. Vice-President; JAMES MUTSCHELLER, '52, Treasurer; and AVILLIAM RYAN, '52, Secretary. Approximately 35 of the local alumni attended, and an enjoyable time was had by all. 
The annual Summer Family Picnic was held on July 20 at ''Anchors Aweigh" on the estate of Mrs. JGKN LaVECK on the Mogothy River. GREG HALPIN acted as chairman of the affair. 
Plans, are also in progress for the Navy-Notre Dame Football week end on Oct. 31-Xov, 1. The Club wll hold a Pep Rally on the evening of Oct. 31 at the Hotel Emerson. A cocktail party \rfll also be held immediately following the game on Nov. 1 at the Emerson. All local and visiting alumni arc incited to renew old acquaintances at this time. Mr. FRANK HOCHREITER will act as General Chairman of the Week end. 
—AVILLI.AM RYAN, *52, Secy. 

Boston 
One hundred ten good folk attended Universal, 

N.D. Night on April 14 at the Commonwealth Country Club, enjoyed cocktails and dinner. . lis­tened attentively to the sage words of Philip J. DriscoU, Director ot Admissions at Brandeis Uni­versity, were regaled by "MOOSE" KRAUSE and were treated to the presentation of the Notre Dame Man of the Year A^vard by old faithful JACK SAUNDERS, '31. Au-ard redpient was ARTHUR McMANMON, '31, president of Donnelly Electrical Mfg. Co. Dancing followed, as well as se\-eral culprits who made off with my car—not N.D. men —so everyone had a good time. 
A directors* meeting on May 15 firmed plans for the annual picnic, which was held June 15 at 
- Camp Cathedral, Long Pond, East Freetown, Mass. It was a family affair and the cost was advertised as "Just a little effort, and extra patience with the children." 
Tlic wheels were set In motion to create a board to invest the funds of the grounng Scholarship Fund, and action ^^'as initiated to bring our Direc­tory up to date and broaden its advertising con­tent. Also, it was decided to send a contribution to our "Eastern nephew," Slonchill College. 
—NTIL FOWXER, '47, Secy^ 

Buffolo 
TTie Spring and Summer program for the N.!?­.Alumni Club of Buffalo began tvith a silent weeic end and retreat at the St. Columban Retreat House^ Derby, N. Y., under the chairmanship of AL\URICB QUINN, '38. T^venty-nine members attended. Foi" Spring 1959 Chairman Quinn and his committer of ten have reseni'cd the entire retreat house for tfte 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September^ 1958 31 
DETROIT—Edward Gage (R), retiring club president, and Joseph Carey, newly-elected president, give Father Alfred Mendez, C^.C, Director of Province Development, a $2,500 check for the Moreau Seniinarj* huilding fund. This is the second installment paid on a $10,000 gift pledged by the Detroit Alumni Club. 
X.D. Ps5sinii Sunday UVck end and hope lo have 82 mcmbcrb and ilicir friends in attendance. 
Universal N. D. Night was celebrated on April 21, 1958, in the Crvstal Room, Hotel Lafayette. Buflfalo X. Y. Tlic Club and guests were honored by having FATHER JEROME J. WILSON, C.S.C.. as guest speaker: plus Congressman WILLLVM MILLER, *35. In addition to this outstanding speak­ers program, arranged by Chairman HENRY BALL­ING, JR., '52. and his committee, the N.D. Man of the Year 1953 was named as JOSEPH F. RYAN, '38. Joe and Elk-n R>-an are the proud parents of ten cliildren, but through the cooperation of Mrs. Ryan and all the children. Joe always manages time for Notre Dame activitie-S. It is a tradition of the Club that Joe not only never refuses an assignment, but al.vays accomplishes his Club ac­tivities with enthusiasm and great interest. AX­THONY BRICK, '34. Chairman of N.D. Founda­tion Committee for Western New York, was Master of Ceremonies for Universal N.D. Night 1958. 
Tlic Annual Stag Outing for the Buffalo Alumni 
Club was held June 14. 1958. under the chairman­
ship of MATT DUGGAN, '52. Tliis year Matt 
and his committee n:-t only presented a complete 
and entertaining program, but paid honor to 
FATHER SI GARDNER, C.S.C, xvho will be 
leaving the Buffalo Area after serving for several 
years as Club Chaplain. The stag was held at -Edgcwater Park Hctel, Grand Island, X. Y. Notre Dame nig'it at the Races was held on 
rjunc 17, 1958. at Buffalo Raceway. James J. Dunnigan, President of Buffalo Trotting Association, and JOHN LaVIGXE, '49, President of the Buffalo N'.D. Club, were honorar>' Chairmen. The Club pre­sented the winning horse with the 1958 Blue and Gold cooler blanket. The Buffalo Trotting Associa­tion through President Dunnigan, presented a check to tlie Alumni Scliolarshlp fund. TIic program was under the direction of Co-chairmen HENRY J. BALLING, JR., WILLIAM PFEIL and DONALD 
G. JACOBL 
The Annual Golf N.D. Tournament was held at Lancaster Countrv Club under cliairmanship of WILLIAM PFEIL, '35. The Mar>- A. Quinn Trophy, for low grcss score, was presented to the outstanding golfer. The John F. Endcrs Trophy was presented to low net golfer. 
For this Fall, 1958. the Club, under the direction of ANTHONY ROCCO, '49, and FRANCIS GAG­LIONE, '39, is cs^ploring the possibility of a 

32 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September^ 
football excursion to one of the N.D. games. All proceeds wou'd be used to augment the Club scholarship fund. 
—DONALD G. JACOBI, Sec%-. 

Canton 
Sixty persons were on hand April 9 at the Holiday Countrv- Club for the obser\-ancc of Universal X'otre Dame X'ight. 
REV. FATHER ROBERT LOCHNER, C.S.C., foreign student advisor at the University, was the principal speaker. 
Master of ceremonies. JAMES F. WEBER, club president, introdu-ed GEORGE IZO, quarterback from Barbcrton. Ohio, who told the club to 'Hook forward to a good year this year if the team readies its potential." 
Also introduced was Lcs Travcr, star athlete from nearby Alliance High School, who recently was the recipient of an athletic scholarship for the coming year. 
A buffet dinner of ham and turkey was served. Father Loclmer spoke on "What's wrong with the world and what we can do about it." 
Also discussed were plans for a Communion breakfast with Ca.iton area boys presently attending the university and the summer family picnic. 
—JAMES F. WEBER, '57, Prcs. 

Cedar Rapids 
LAWRENCE H. BALDINGER, Dean of the College of Scienre at the University, was guest speaker at a Universal Notre Dame Night dinner attended by approximately 60 people, many of whom were parents of prospective freshmen. A check for $50 wxs presented to Dr. Baldinger bv President STEPHEN PROVOST for the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Chicago 
At a vcn' successful Universal Notre Dame Night dinner held at the Lake Shore Club, the following officers and board members were installed for the coming year. OfHcers: JOHN F. MORLEY, Presi­dent; PHILIP J. FACCENDA, Vice President; KENNETTH G. ENRICHT, Secretary-; JAMES T. 
2958 
DOYLE, Treasurer; HON. NORMAN C. BARRY, Honorary- President, and GEORGE MENARD, 2nd Vice Prcsitjcnt; Board of Governors: (One Year Term) WILLIAM S. ALLEN, JAMES F. CON­WAY, JR., J.\MES D. H.4GGERTY, WALTER A. KIOLB.^SA, FR.\NK G. MATAVOSKY, HUGH 
E. MULLIGAN and ROGER B. WHITE; (Two-Year Term) THO.MAS P. BROG.VN, JERO.ME A. FR,\ZEL, JR., EDWIN A. GAUSSELIN, D.\NIEL HARDIN, JOSEPH L. PAGLIARI, ROBERT K. WILMOUTH and FR.ANCIS J. MILLIGAN, JR.; (Three-Year Term) NORMAN J. BARRY, BER­NARD E. GOTTA, VERNE F. KELLEY, AN­THONY J. MAZZIOTTI, JR., JOHN J. MUL­DOON and FR-^iNK J. O'LAUGHLIN. 
BILL BROWN, '48, ed;ts a Chicago Club nc\>-s­letler which started during tlic summer ntontlis. Regular monthly luncheons were discontinued 
during the months of July and August. 
PHIL FACCENDA is chairman of the Rockne .\ward. Two cf the outstanding high school ath­letes will be picked. A screening committee will select these boys from a possible 11 or 12 candi­dates. 
Tile second annual testimonial for retiring board members was held May 27 in the Sportsmen's Room of the Illinois Athletic Club. Feted were: JAMES 
L. FERSTEL, CYRUS F. FRIEDHEIM, ROBERT GEIMAN, WILLIAM M. HICKEY, DONALD J. HOGAN, FRED A. JOYCE, JR., WILLIAM J. KENNEDY, JAMES C. O'KEEFE and ROBERT EM.METT WRIGHT. 
A Chicago Club golf spectacular was held Mon­day, August 4, at FRED SNlTE's picturesque Elm­liurst Country Club. Judging from the entertain­ment and prize committee activity it was an attend­ance record setter. 
Under Chairman JOE ARCHIBALD there w;as more emphasis on prizes than ever before, with practically a prize for everybody, whether golfer, non-golfer alumnus or friend. A hole-in-oue would have merited the choice of a Chris-Craft or a Corv'ettc. 
For the non-golfers and those unable to get the day off "dinner only" tickets were ax-ailable. Presi­dent JACK MORLEY emphasized that the affair is no longer to be considered strictly a golfers' party. 
An all-star entertainment program included mem­bers of the University athletic and administrative depat^ments. 
Committee members were: AUSTIN, McNICH-OLS, '49; JOHN LYONS, '49; DICK BROERE.V, '49; FRANK MURN,\NE, '49; BILL ARCHIBOLD, '47; PHIL McDO.VALD, '47; DON WEBER, '49; HUGH MULLIGAN, '30; BILL REYNOLDS, '54, and HARRY QUINN, '49. 
KE.\NETH G. ENRIGHT, JR., '48, Sec>-. 

Cincinnati 
On Thursday. April 10th, the Cincinnati Notre Dame Club held a dinner at the Fenwick Club with TERRY BRENNAN as guest of honor. TIic club presented Terr%* with a gift for himself and a check for Four Thousand Dollars to be added to the Scholarship Fund at the University. 
Following the dinner a smoker was held in co­
operation with the Fenwick Club. Over 650 at­
tended. Mr. WALLY NIENABER was general 
chairman. Mr. DICK SCALLVN was Master of 
Ceremonies. 
At the Mav meeting the following were nominated 
for office: President: STEVE HEEKIN and JOHN 
McCORMICK; Vice President: ROCK MORRIS­
SEY and JERRY MAHON; Secretary-: TOM 
GROTE and PAUL KELLY; Treasurer: REESE 
LEBAR and BARRV SAVAGE. Heekin, Mahon, 
Grote and Sa\'agc were elected to office. 
The Scholarship Committee announced the award 
of a four-year scholarship to the University to Dick 
Schimpf of Purcell High School. Dick, graduating 
in June with the highest grades in his class, will 
enter the College of Arts and Letters in the Fall. 
Because of conflicting dates of other actixities. the 
celebration of Univtrsal Notre Dame Night had to 
be postponed until Saturday May 24th. On that 
day a dinner dance was held for the members, 
guests and wives at the University Club. Mr. 
JOHN COTTINGHAM was general chairman. Mr. 
BOB BURKE was chairman of the Notre Dame 
Man-of-thc-Ycar Committee. Mr. BILL GRAFE 
was named Cincinnati's Notre Dame Man-of-the-
Ycar. Over fifty couples were in attendance. 
—JOHN McCORMICK, Retiring Secy. 

Cleveland 
The Rockne Communion Breakfast was held April 20, 1958 amidrt a turnout of 200 members and guests. Chairman of the event was RAY T. MIL­
LER, JR. D/\N DUFFY acted as Toastmaslcr and 
guest sptaktrs were: HARRY STUHLDREHER, 
REV. FR.\XK GAKTLAND, C.S.C., and WALTER 
O'KEEFE. At this Breakfast, JOHN J. REIDY 
was awarded the Man-of-tlie-Year Award. 
On May 13, 1958, llic Club at its .Annual Meeting 
elected the following new oflicers: Ri\Y T. MIL­
LER, JR., '51, Presidfint; MICHAEL (JERRY) 
McGRATH, *51, Vice President; JOHN P. COYNE, 
'54, Secretary-, and GEORGE D. HAM.MER, '52, 
Treasurer. 
The rcii;s of the Club were turned over to the 
new President by out-going President DENNIS J. P. 
O'NEILL, '51. The special guest speaker for the 
evening was JERRY GROO.M, former All-Amcrican. 
Tlie Notre Danic Foundation announced that 
Cleveland had the highest percentage of contributors 
to tilt Foundation during their recent .Annual Drive. 
Tlianks are extended (o JOHN J. REIDY and 
KARL MARTERSTECK for their excellent assist­
ance. 
The Club held its Annual Family Picnic at Gil­
mour Academy. This year the event was run 
enllrcly by the wives of Frank Gaul, Jerr>' Hammer, 
Jim Uprichard and Tom Bremer. 
Richard Miller, *54 was recently appointed Assist­
ant County Prosecutor. 
The Annual Notre Dame Stag was held Saturdav, 
June 14, at CHUCK ROHR's "R" Farm for alum­
ni, students and sons over 11. Guests were present 
from the Notre Dame coaching stafT and priests. 
Free food and refreshments crowned an array of 
athletic cver.ts including a soflball game between 
the "old timers'* and recent gratis. 
An hour before the parly a Forum was held for 
all interested alumnt and students on recent activi­
ties at the University. Officers were invited from 
Notre Dame Clubs of Buffalo, Pittsburgh, Toledo, 
Columbus, Eric, Detroit, .Akron and other cities. 
.Among the topics discussed were: Notre Dame's 
financial position, the Foundation program, future 
enrollment, building, faculty, scholastic standing 
and atiiletics. 
—JOHN P. CO\'NE, Secy. 
Columbus, Ohio 
On April 7, at the Virginia Hotel the officers for the coming year were elected. Thev are: JAMES 
J. HUGHES, M.D., '31, President; ROBERT ECHENRODE, '48, Vice President; JAMES U'. PRICE, '56, Secretary, and AL FRERICKS, '41. Treasurer; and the two new members of the Board of Trustees arc BUD MURPHY, '33, and JOHN COX, '53. 
The celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night was a huge success under the capable direction of the HUGHES brothers—JOE, HENRY and TOM —assisted by P.AT a^NTWELL. BUD MURPHY was the M.C. and Coach BERNIE CRE.M.\nNS was the guest speaker. Bernic informed us of the 
progress taking place at N.D., Sports and other^vise. 
Rev. Stickle, O.P. (no relaticii to the N.D. famous 
toe own»r) said grace. Municipal Judge and Mrs. 

JOHN C. DUFFY also attended. Judge Duffy 
swore in the new officers at the Fort Hayes Hotel 
affair. 
Coaches TERRY BRENNAN and BERNIE 
WITUCKI treated the club members with the 
filmed Highlights of the '57 Football Season at the 
Pre-June meeting of May 26. 
Wives of the members are pitching in this year 
to make some of the activities couple or family 

affairs. They havL already proven themselves— 
under the direction of the Secretary and Mrs. 
ROBERT ECHENRODE they brought the club 
roster up to dale. They also worked with their 
husbands under the co-chairmanship of Mar>* and 

JOHN IGOE tc make the Family Picnic held at 
Oak Park oz. Aug. 6 a great success, attendance 
and food wise. 
We arc again extending an invitation to any 

Alumnus in Ccntrt'l Ohio wlio wishes to join us to 
drop a line to the Club President James J. Hughes, 
M.D., 481 East Town St., Columbus, Ohio. 
—JA.MES W. PRICE, '56, Seo-. 
Connecticut Volley 

This year vvc liope to start anew, with a new slate of officers and an Interested Board of Gov­ernors. DAVE CURRY is Vice President. BOB DALTON is Secrelarj-, and BILL WAELDXER is Treasurer. TIic Board of Governors is made tip of JOHN ROBINSON (Chairman). FR.ANK AHEr\RN, TI.\l MURPHY, DON McM.VNUS, and ART .McGEE. 
—LOUIS A. BERGERON, Pres. 
Dallas 
Here is the Dallas Club program for the year. 

Significantly, our first event was the N.D. Novena for World Peace, Mjy 10 through 18 on the Jesuit High School Campus at 7:15 p.m. each evening. General chairmen weiv: JAKE RETCHEN­STEIN and JOHN DARROUZET, and committee chairmon were as follows: Parochial Contacts. HAL TEHAN: Ccnstruction, DAVE COWDIN; Publicitv, JOHN MOR.-\N; Women's Auxiliarv, PAT SCHRO­ETER; Public .Address Svslem. ART DURBIN; Ushers. MARTY O'CONNOR; Seners, ED SOLON, and Music. ARTHUR SMITH. 
MART\* O'CONNOR was chairman of the Communion Breakfast. The Car Pool Organiza­tion is headed bv FR.ANK HARRISON. 
JOE HAGGAR is chairman of the X.D.-S.M.U. Pep Rally, October 3, and FRANK FINN will lead the N.D. Team Brunch October 5. 
D.AVE COWDIN and JI.M WHITE will be co-chairmen of the Christmas Dance December 29, and the 1959 Universal Notre Dame Night will be under the chairmanship of EM.MET O'NEILL. 
Dayton 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated on April 14 with a dinner at the Van Cleve Hotel at­tended by about 80 persons including Notre Dame men and their guests. FRANCIS X. (TIM) BRAD­LEY, JR., Assistant Dean for Research in the Notre Dame Graduate Scliool, gave an inspiring address on the progressive approacli Notre Dame is taking to meet the challenge of the atomic age and her sub­stantial contribution to Government and industry in the field of scientific research. 
Outgoing President BILL MacMILLAN presented Tim with a check of $200.00 for the Notre Dame Foundation. 
E. ^VALTER BAUMAN was the popular reapi­cnt of the "Man-of-lhc-Vear" award. Walter, now retired, has a large collection of dippings about Notre Dame and her activities through the years, and he has an encyclopedic knowledge of Notre Dame football games and football stars farther back than the stage debut of Jack Benny. 
The newly-elected officers announced at the dinner are: PAUL LAMMERS, President; JACK O'BRIEN, Vice President; WALT GEREND, Secretary; and ANDY AMAN, Treasurer. Andy has been our treasurer for six terms. He seems to be the onlv person we will trust with our money. FRiXNK AfcBRIDE and TOM LANDGREN were ^ elected to the Board of Directors. Other members of the Board are: LEO CONDRON, LEO FETTIG, BILL MacMILLAN, ED SHEA, and ED STEINER. 
JOHN MacCAULEY of the Notre Dame Founda­tion joined the Board of Directors and Officers in a meeting at Ed Steiner's really office on May 22 as they planned actlxities for the coming year. John spoke of the excellent record Notre Dame seniors are making -in competing with seniors from other leading universities for graduate scholarships. 
Tlie Women's .Auxiliary, headed by Mrs. Frank McBride and Mrs. John Powers, ran a baseball excursion to Cincinnati on July 18 for the Redlegs-St. Louis Cardinals game. 
It is not yet certain whether a football excursion will be conducted this year; but if it is. the Purdue game would be the must likely choice. Four tickets for the Army game plus expense money will be the prize in a raffle to be conducted in the Fall. 
ED (RED) SHEA, former "Man-of-the-Year" and the personification of Notre Dame among Dayton alumni, retired Assistant Prosecutor of Montgomery County on June 1 after filling the position for 14 years. He is returning to the full-time private practice of law. 
—WALTER J. GEREND, Secy. 

Dearborn 
The Notre Dame Club of Dearborn held its annual Communion Breakfast on May 18. Mass and Communion were celebrated at St. Bernadctte's 
BUFFALO—These members of the Notre Dame Club made the 1938 week-end silent retreat at St. Columban's Retreat House, Derbjr, N.Y. (Retreatmasters Rev. John T. O'Brien and Rev. Charles Barfield, center). Retreat Chairman Maurice Quinn and his committee eq>ect 
82 at next retreat. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 33 
Church. REV. HECTOR J. SAULIXO, the pastor and club cliapluin. celebrated the Mass. Breakfast uas at the Dcarbsni Inn immediately afteru-ards. JOHN E. COURTNEY, '50, who is our new presi­dent, was cliairman of the affair and introduced our 1958 officers: DAVID L. DOLAN, '47, re-elected \ncc President; JAMES A. KING, '50, Secrelan--Trcasurer; and GERALD F. SARB, '48, GEORGE 
C. BALL, '49. ar.d JOHN J. FISH, JR., '55. Board members for three year terms. GEORGE WILSON, head coach of the Detroit Lions and guest speaker at tlie banquet, was given a lifetime Honorary membership in our club. GERALD F. G.\SS, '50. received the past presidents' plaque and he vowed to hang it in Ins living room. 
The ycungstcrs outi.umbcred the adults 4 to 1 at our yearly family picnic at Nollar Bend, June 
22. Evcr>'onc went home happy, tired, and full; thanks to chairman TOM NELSON, '52. 
•"We Could Have Danced .-Ml Night" and most of us did the night of our summer dance. Mr. and Mrs. GER^VLD F. SARB, '48. played host and hostess. Tlie ofiic-.-rs' wives, under the able cliair­manship of Mrs. JACK E. COURTNEY, planned, furnished and served the beans and hot dogs. 
—JAMES A. KING, Scc^-. 

• Decatur 
The Decatur Notre Dame .Alumni Club celebrated 

its first anual U.N.D. Night en May 7th at the 
Blur Mill in Decatur. The evening's program \\'as 
highlighted bv a mo>t wonderful talk bv the 
Right Reverend Msgr. G. W. POWELL of St. 
Patrick's Parish in Decatur. He spoke on the 
"Role of the Catholic Layman" and his words were 
roost enlightening and stimulating. Tlie festivities 
started with a cocktail hour which %vas followed 
by a prime ribs of beef dinner. Our "Intellectual 
Pep Rally" started after dinner with the introduc­
tion of Msgr. Powell by our president—BERNARD 
("Around the World in 80 Days") MART\*. .Mtcr 
Msgr. Powell's fine talk we showed the movie 
"Notre Dame." It was an excellent movie and 
was enjoytd by ever\-onc. Our first annual U.N.D. 
Night, we believe, was a rousing success and if it 
is an indication of things to come then you can 
expect to hear a lot from Decatur. There were 
55 members, parents and friends present. The 
Committee for the event included STEVE GRA­
LIKER, ALAN L.\NDOLT, BOB UHL, GEORGE 
HUBBARD, and MILT BE.\UDINE (Chairman). 
Our next event is a Stag Golf Outing in late 

June or cariy July. BERNARD LEVERGOOD 
will chaimiin the affair. 
Our President, Bernard Marty, recently returned 

from the Carribean sporting a straw hat and steel 
drum, planned to return to Notre Dame this 
summer for a one week executive management 
course. He'll be eas>' to recognize—driving a small 
foreign car, humming a cal>-pso tune. 
My wedding was an all-N.D. affair. The priest 

celebrating the Mass, four ushers, best man and 
groom were all N. D. graduates. 
NAUGATUCK VALLEY—Principals of Valley Club's U.N.D. Night at the Waverly Inn, Cheshire, Conn., included (from left) Bert Henebry, '40, Waterburj", club secretary; Rev. John Sullivan, club's first chaplain, named N. D. Man-of-the-Year; Jim Scigliano, '42, Water­bury, treasurer, and Ed Krause, guest speaker. 
Our dub membership is still increasing. Our most recent members arc: JIM MONTEDONICO, BERX.ARD D\V\-ER, GEORGE JOHNSON (Tay­lorvillc. III.). ED KEE.\AN (Clinton, 111.), CHARLES NELSON' and LEO GREEN. 
Wc still hold our monthly luncheons on the 4lh Wednesday of every month at Greider's Cafe, North Water St., Decatur. We're still looking for our first om.of-town guest. 
—MILT BE.-\UDINE, '34, Secy. 

Denver 
The Denver Notre Dame Club celebrated Uni­versal Notre Dame Night on April 14, 1958, with a dinner dance at the Park Hill Country' Club at­tended by 125 Alumni and their wives, relatives and other friends of Notre Dame. The featured speaker and guest of honor was former Irish foot­ball coach FRANK LEAHV who had a thought-stimulating talk on the value of competitive athletics iii educating a whole man. 
Other guests were the Catholic Mayor of Denver, WILL NICHOLSON, and his wife and the assistant and brother to the Catholic Governor of Colorado, BILL McNICHOLS. .A most enjoyable evening of comradeship was enjoyed by all in paying honor to our Alma Mater. 
The recently elected officers of the Club took office at the dinner. Tliey are: President. JAMES 
P. SHEEHxVN; Vice President. LEON ARCHER; Secretary, CARL EIBERGER; Treasurer. GERARD 
J. SMITH. New Club Directors are: GLEN*N MENHENNETT, RAY W. RISTOW. DR. JAMES MONAGHAN and ART GREGORY. 
A most active committee of the Club has been the Scholarship Investigating Committee which has been givimr an overall review to the Club's annual undergraduate scholarship irrant. Local industries, and the schools administration have been contacted, and meetings have been held with the local Catholic superintendrnt of schools as regards the standards required and the possibility of having a facullv chair. Committee m«-mhcrs are: DR. PHIL CL/\RKE, ROBERT DICK, NL\UR1CE REIDV, CARL EIBERGER, GERARD SMITH and CHARLES MASKELL. 
Many members of the Denver Club enjoyed their first sports luncheon at a main downtown hotel in the middle of June. Recognizing that so many members work in the downtown area and can easily meet together for lunch. GERRY SMITH and GLENN MENHENNETT planned and staged an enjox-able affair. Local sports figures and news­paper sports columnists were inrited. Among former Notre Dame sports figures now in the Denver area arc: VINCE BORYLrV, basketball star :»nd coach of the N. Y. Knickerbockers; JOHN DEE, basket­ball coach at Notre Dame, Alabama, and of the Denver Chicago Truckers, who went to the finals of this year's National A.A.U. Tournament in Denver; JERRY GROOM, football All-American at Notre Dame; FRED GUSHURST, who plavcd fool-ball with KNUTE ROCKNE; BOB DICK, foot­baller, and ELMER W\'NNE, football All-American, both of Rocknc's era. 
Tlie annual club picnic will he held the latter part of August under the direction of Rx\Y RIS­TOW and DR. JAMES MONAGHAN. An all-day outing at one of Denver's beautiful city or mountain parks is planned, including games, swimming and events for the whole family. 
FATHER JAMES McSHANE, a Notre Dame man, is the ne^v. Chaplain of the club, and BILL GARGAN and BOB ZEIS have been appointed to head the Publicity Committee. MATT McENlRY is looking into the possibility of having a theatre part%' for the scliolarship fund. The football trips will be handled by JAMES HxVNLON, as he has done so wonderfully over many past years. 
Besides the regular combination dinner and bttsi­ness mcetinfp scheduled throughout the year, club plans arc also being laid by CARL EIBERGER and 
DAYTON—Officers and guests at Universal Notre Dame Night meeting of the Dayton Club ART GREGORY for a Fall meeting and entertain­ment with and for the ladies and wives of club 
include (left to right): Club Treasurer Andrew Aman, Jr., Secretary Walter Gcrcnd, Vice-
members. Preliminaiy plans are also already being 
President John O'Brien, Lobund chief and guest speaker Francis X. '*Tim" Bradley, Man-
made by JIM COUGHLIN for the Christmas of-the-Ycar £. Walter Bauman and Club President Paul Lammcrs. dance, and by LEON ARCHER and JLM SHEE­

34 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September^ 1958 
H^VN, Club President, for Universal Notre Dame XigTit. In addition, the oflicers and tlie Scholarship Investigating Committee, last year headed by DR. PHIL CL/\RK£, are continuing work on fund raising activities and applications, Including estab­lishment of a speakers' bureau. 
—a\R L EIBERGER, SCQ-. 
Detroit 
HARRY B. "BUD" ST1LL.\IAX, '24, passed away May 7. His friends from the Detroit Clnb gathered May 9 at his residence for the Rosarv'­The funeral Mass was said May 10 at Holy Name Church, Birmingham. 
The j\nnual Stag Golf Outing and Dinner was held July 1 at the Western Golf and Countr>- Club and featured guests from the University. 
The Detroit Club Monthly Luncheon has been moved to Calvert Catering, just opposite Blessed Sacrament Cathedral on Woodward, at 12 Xoon on tlic first Thursday of ever>' month. 
Eastern Indiana 
JOHN C. HYNES, Muncie allorncy, was circled president of the Notre Dame Club of Eastern Indiana at the annual dinner ^fay 13 at Green Hills Countr>- Club, Muncie, Ind. Elected with him were: FR/VNCIS SCHWEIER, Hartford City, vice president; RICHARD A. GREENE, Muncie, secre­tary* and TOM ADAMS, Muncie, treasurer. 
Tlie club is planning two other events for 1958: A ladies night program in September and father-and-son communion breakfast in December. 
ED DIXON, president for 1957-38, presided. Short talks were made by CHARLES F. VOGT, Muncie, Class of 1900, top man of N.D. in the area; W. F. CRAIG, .Muncie, and BILL CRONIN, Hartford City. During the afternoon several mem­bers plavcd golf. 
Attending were: THO.MAS A. &\NNOX, JOHN H\'NES, TOM ADAMS, EDWARD DI.XON, CHARLES F. VOGT, FR.\NK A. CARVEY, RICHARD A. GREENE, W. S. MacDONALD, NORBERT W. HART, WILLIAM F. CRAIG, JOHN G. .MARHOEFER, all of .Muncie; FR,\NCIS SCHWEIER and WILLIAM B. CRONIN, Hartford, Cilv. and DICK SWEENEY, Wheaton, III. (Hob-Cross, '52). 
—DICK GREENE, Scci-. 
Erie 
On .April Ifi. Universal Xotrc Dame Night was held by the Eric Club .Mumni at the University Club. .Arrangements were handled verv- ablv bv JACK YOUNG, '51, and JOE STADLER, '53,'out­going President and Vice President. The higldight of the evening was the presentation of the "Xotrc Dame Man of the Year" award to RICHARD D. D.ALEY, '17. The officers for the coming year were also instated at this meeting: they arc: JOHN J. McCORMICK, JR., '53, President; WILLIA.M F. GR.\NT, '45, Vice President; JOHN GOULD, '57. secrctarj-; and HERB KERN, '54. treasurer. Those In attendance at the Universal Notre Dame .Vight were: Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH BARBER, '36; .Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT BARBER, '40; Mr. and Mrs. LEO J. BRUGGER, '34; Mr. and Mrs. DONALD BUSECK, '50; Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD CONWAY, '53; Mr. and .Mrs. RICH­ARD D. DALEY, '17; .Mr. and .Mrs. Jx\.MES DWTER, JR., '37; .Mr. and Mrs. JOHN DUa\TO, '48; Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM GR,\NX *45; Mr. and Mrs. HERB KERN, '54; .Mr. and Mrs. TO.M .McCVRTHY, '50; Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. Mc­CORMICK, JR.. '53; Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE 
R. STADLER, '28; -Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH STAD­LER, '53- Mr. and -Mrs. .MICHE.VL YARBENET, '47; .Mr. and .Mrs. JACK YOUNG, '51; Mr. and Mrs. TONY Z.\.MBROWSKI, '52, and Mr. and Mrs. JACK GOULD, '57. 
—JOHN DUCVTO, '48, is the proud father of his first son, Michael John. The baby, bom .March 8, has two sisters, RICHARD AIcCOR-MICK, '55 Is back in town after serving two years with the Armv. Our Alumni group was happy to ivelconie RICHARD CONSIDINE, '58, and also JERRY OLWELL, JR., who has recently moved to the Erie area frcm Montreal. HERB KERN, '54, JOE STADLER, '53, and JOHN McCOR­MICK, JR., '53, arc among those who attended June reunions at Notre Dame. Mr. and Mrs. LEO BRUGGER, '34, visited Notre Dame at the end of May to pick up their son, Leo, Jr., who has just completed his Freshman year. DICK DALEY, '53, who is with the United Press, has been transferred from Pittsburgh to Philadelphia. ED KERN, *56, is due out of the .Army in October. J.ACK PALMI­SANO, '55, is now in Germany with the Army. Also serving i:; thi Annv arc two '57 grads, R/\Y LEGLER, .md FRED STLVSSER. JACK GOULD, '57, is whipping his golf game back in shape after his recent surgery. BILL GRJVNT, '45, named "Young Man of the Year" for 1957 by the Erie Junior Chamber of Commerce, was featured in the last ALU.MXUS. JOHN WALSH, '57, completed his first ye:x at JefT.TSon .Medici School. EDWARD CONWAY, '53, is spending some time wlih Lord Manufacturing in Erie and has been an ardent supporter of Erie Club functions. DONALD GLEN­TON, '57, was a recent Eric visitor. JOE BARBER^ 

'36, stepped down as the Grand Knight of the Eric Council of the Knights of Columbus after serving two years. JOE HIPP, '49, has completed his third year of major seminary work at St. Bonever.ture. JACK DANT, '52 is house hunting. JERRY NIES, '54, and family arc back in Eric; Jerr>- recently finished Med School. Tlic Club recently received a letter from ex-Erieitc D'ARCY CHISHOLM which was read at the March meet­ing; in it, he mentioned that TONY ZA.MBROW­SKI, '52, and JIM MAHOxXEY, '51. didn't look like they were in playing shape in the picture of the Erie Club Communion breakfast In a recent issue of the ALUMNUS. This was quite a blow-to Tonv because he was seen In the "Eric Times" recently along with JLM SCHAFF and NICK PIETROSAN*TE, present Irish footballers, and was remarking to all that he looked In better shape than they did?! DON BUSECK, '50. says the picture was verv- deceiving but even so he doesn't think the "Jurisprudence in the Paunch" remark made by D'.Arc>- was as funny as the rest of the club did. 
At our Jupc meeting, FATHER R^\LPH RUNDA, S.V.D., showed slides and gave a lecture on the "Holy Shroud of Turin." 

Our July meeting was a combined, dinner and golf outing at the Culbertson Hills Country Club. All students and alumni attending had a very enjoyable day. 
—JOHN GOULD, '57, Secy. 
Evansville 

The X'otrc Damo Club of Evansville obscr\'ed Universal Notre Dame Xight on .April 14, 1958, with a dinner at Smitty's. FATHER MENDEZ gave a talk on the position and the importance of pri\'ate schools in our educational svstcm. 
A. ^V. (TONY) CROWLEY, '35, was named "Man of the Year." Tony was given the award because of his outstanding philanthropic work in the community, expccially among the boys. 
The officers for the 1958-59 year were also in­stalled. They are as follows: FRED THEIS, '36. President; DON HALLER, '43, Vice President; GENE JOHNSON, '51, Sccrctar>--Treasurer. 
ED KEMPF, outgoing president, was installed as a director. —R. EUGENE JOHNSON, Secy.-Trcas. 
Flint 

On January 28 wc held our first meeting at the Elks Club. The following oflicers were elected and installed: President, JA.MES J. SHERRY, JR.; 
CLEVELAND—Members and guests of the Cleveland Club congratulate Man-of-the-Year John Reidy at Club's Communion Breakfast. 
Left to right: Retiring President Dennis J. P. O'Neill, comedian Walter O'Keefe, Harry Stuhldreher, Reidy, Rev. Frank E. Gartland, C.S.C., editor of THE CATHOLIC BOY; Dan W. Duffy, William VanRooy and new President Ray T. Miller, Jr. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 35 
N"EW HA\'EN—Thomas J. Hils, '35 (left), was named Notre Dame Man-of-the-Year by the New Haven Club at combined U.N.D. Night ceremonies with Naugatuck and Connecti­cut Valley Clubs. Making the presentation are (1. to r.) N. D. Athletic Director Ed Krausc, Club President Edward Byrne and Ed Longhi of New Haven, former All-American center at Notre Dame. 
First Vice Prisidcnt. ARTHUR PARADIS; Second 
Vice President. VICTOR E. GEORGE; Secretarj-
Treasurer. WILLIAM F. MINARDO; Directoni, 
U\RRY S.\XE, AL FUHRM.-WC, HERBERT 
JOHNSON, R.AY KELLY, HAROLD STI.VE and 
DAN MacDONALD. 
A tentative schedule of coining events was out­

lined, including U.N.D. Night, a Family Picnic, a 
dance in Scpttmber and a football trip in October. 
A film, "Highlights of the 1957 Notre Dame 

Football Season" was viewed after which the meet­
ing was adjourned. 
Tile Notre Dame Club of Flint celebrated its 

Universal Notre Dame Night on April 8 featuring 
the Man of the Year Award. 
HUBERT L. CURTIS, A.C. Spark Plug DiWsion 

works manager, was honored as the Man of the 
Year and was presented the award by J.\Mc.S 
J. SHERRY, JR., Club president. 
Sherr>- also conferred an honorary club member­ship on' Curtis and on VICTOR L. GEORGE and 
M. BUSHNELL TREMBLEY, ROBERT T. MAC­DON.ALD tvas toastmastcr. 
The evening wvs further enlightened by a short 

talk by REV. JOHN J. CVVANAUGH, director 
of the University of Notre Dame Foundation. 
Chairman for the event was HAROLD R. STINE. 

Publicitv. dccoratiT,ns and ticket sales were assisted 
by WILLI.\M -MLNARDO and PAUL HUGHES. 
The Club held its fourth annual picnic Sunday. 

June 15. from 2-5 p.m. 
JAMES SHERRY, JR., President of the club, hosted the event at his farm located three miles south of Goodrich, ^lichigan. 
Chairman, R.\Y KELLY; Food, FRED M.VN­SOUR; Entertainment. J.VCK KEAN, JACK L.\UX. BOB SIBILSKY; Clean-up. LARRY SAX and JOE OKOPIEN. 
WILLIAM F. MINARDO, Secj-.-Treas. 

Fort Lauderdale 
Wc had a large turnout at our February- meeting to hear two fine spezkcrs from the Foundation. FATHER TOM O'DONNELL and JIM FRICK. Senator ART BIDWELL, '26, of Illinois, and a classmate, MIKE WALLACE, '26. of Minneapolis, were present (they know where to \-acation); their genial host u-as local member BILL MAUS. TIic Sliami Club had three members at our meeting, 
36 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September^ 
including club president CHUCK MAHER; Chair­man of the Dade County Commission, FARRIS COWART; and DR. W. B. WELCH. 
The Governor's Club took on an air of South Bend's Sv\-ecncy's Shamrock for our March meet­ing, as green-colored beer flowed in an unlimited quantity. Corned beef and cabbage and all the trinimin's were right there with it. Why, the Fort Lauderdale Irish even have Irish officers: McDonough. McGinn, McGinn, and Murray. And celebrating St- Patrick's dav with them were DICK McAXHEL/VN, GEORGE 0*ERNST, JOHXNY CALLAN, ROY 0*GORE. BOB O'GORE, CHUCK McBAADER. NOR.M CTHIRION, TOM NOLAN, TOMMY WALKER, RAY O'HUFFMAN, BREN­DAN GALLAGHER, JOHNNY O'JACKSON, BILLY McaAMPBELL, JOEY KLEE, and ENJAY BARRY. Why, it was such a gala night that the green glow in the sky over Fort Lauderdale was seen as far as Miami, so DOC McWELCH, DOC O'HANDTE, and PAUL McGLASS hurried up to join the fun. 
April's meeting was Universal Notre Dame Night, incorporated into the Florida State Convention and covered separately. 
Also during .April, mcmben took in the Notre Dame Glee Club concert at Barr>' College, the Sunshine State's only Catholic College. Its lush, tropical campus is really beautiful, and it's only a hop, skip, and a jump from Venetian Fort Lauderdale. 
May is the month of Our ^lothcr and ^lother's Day. And ir. our club it's the month for Ladies* Niglit, a meeting set aside to honor our better halves. We had a fabulous buffet dinner matched only by the one at the convention. GEORGE GORE surprised us by showing the colored mories he allot at the convention. For many it was a double surprise, as thc>' didn't realize thc\'*d been shot. 
The June session was a "Stags Only" dinner at the Governor's Club. It's at these stag parties that the plans are made for the other events, so we have to eliminate the women once in a while. 
Tlie Fourth of July was literally a bang-up time for members and their families. Tlie famous Sea Rancli, home of the N.D. Florida State Convention, is not open during the summer, but a concession was made so that the Fort Lauderdale Irish could have a pri\*atc pool and beach for a good old­fasliioncd Fourth of July picnic. Tliis is the one 
1958 
meeting a year to which you can bring your whole family and have all day to enjoy the party. And of course, the evening was spent watching Hreworks, a great big wonderful display worked up by GEORGE GORE. 
Dc-acti**atc for tlie summer? Not our club. We held a SECOND meeting in July because we enjoy our gatherings so much. And this one was rcally uniquc. BOB GORE arranged a wincderful movie for us, educating us all on all the aspects of wine. To get us in the right mood wc all had some wine before watcliing the show. But after watching all the different \-arictics of wine made and hearing their praises sung, wc really had a thirst for the stuff. And when the lights went on again we had a wonderful surprise .. . all the wines discussed in the film were there in open bottles with glasses. Don't think we're not all confirmed winos now. 
For August wc decided to' do It up Polynesian style, so wc met for dinner in one of the countr>''s most unique restaurants, the Mai-Kai. This fabu­lous place is authentically decorated with objects brought back from the islands. The surroundings arc all so rcalbtic that it's hard to believe you're in Fort Lauderdale instead of Polynesia. This is one place where the unusual dishes and drinks are rcallv exotic. ^fai-Kai is managed by club member BOB V.AN DORPE. 
—TOAf MURRAY, Sec>-. 

Florida State Convention 
T^ic fifth annual convention of Notre Dame Clubs of Florida drew over 250 Notre Dame alumni and their wives and friends to the beautiful, tropical oceanfront setting of the Sea Ranch Hotel in Lauderdalc-by-t he-Sea. Florida. 
The three-day hol-day. sponsored each year by the Notre Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale, brought together Notre Dame men and their wives from all sections of Florid-t including Miami. Fort Lauder­dale, Cocoa Beacli, Jacksonville, Palm Beach. Lake Worth, Marathon on the Kc>-s, Orlando. St. Peters­burg. Lakeland, Eau Gallic and Coral Gables, as well as from other States and Cities ranging as far West as San Francisco, Calif., Dallas, Texas, and, including the Midwestern and Eastern areas of Chi­cago. Ill,, Cleveland Heights, Ohio, New York City, and Detroit, Mich. 
Under the guidance of BOB GORE, '31. co-chair­men GEORGE ERNST, '29, and FRANK .Mc-DONOUGH, '41, the Convention featured tradi­tion il Notre Dam<: spirit and fellowship from regis­tration time on Friday afternoon throughout the week end until check-out time Sunday evening. Actirities included golf, tennis, shufTleboard, swim­ming and bridge tournaments, plus many other rec­reational features and superb meals. The Notre Dame Mass and Communion Breakfast were fea­tured Sunday morning, and Father Joyce celebrated the Mass for the Alumni. 
Highlight of the Convention was Saturday night's Universal Notre Dame Nieiit partv and banquet. FATHER EDMUND JOYCE, Executive Vice Presi­dent of the University, reintroduced the spirit of the campus, enthiuiastically reuniting the .Mumni in the bond which joins Notre Dame men cvcr>'­wherc. Tlic banque- was ably emceed by CHARLIE BACHMAN, '17, who related humorous, tnic sport stories covering his spectacular 35-year playing and coaching caieer at the University of Notre Dame. Kansas State. Univeisit%- of Miami and Michigan State University. 
The Notic Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale pre­sented Father Joyce with a $600.00 check for the Universitv. Man of the Year Award went to hon­orary Club President WILL/\RD F. MOSS for his untiring fund-raising efforts on behalf of the Uni­versity and for his energetic work in the Fort Lauderdale Club. 
In attendance during the convention were several Notre Dame Club Presidents and notable Notre Dame Alumni: President of the ^fiami Club CHARLIE MAHER and wife: President of the Oriando Club. ROY LAUGHLIN and wife: Presi­dent of the St. Petersburg Club, ROY DEEB and wife, and Mr. and Mrs. FRITZ BAUMER, Presi­dent of the Jacksonville Club. 
In addition Mr. and Mrs. PARIS COWART, Commissioner of the CItv of Miami; Mr. and Mrs. HOWARD KORTH. '41; former All-American TED TWOMEY and wife: JIM McGOLDRICK. '39. and %vife; ART CRONIN and wife, Mr. and Mrs. BOB TARVER, '38. from San Francisco were present. Also PAUL NOWAK, '39, former N.D. .-MI-Amcrican basketball player and his wife. 
The following Notre Dame men with their wives attended the Convention: LOU KIEFER, JR., DR. 
L. RUSSELL, ED A. KELLY, DAN ROWLANDS, HY MANNING, MATT BUTTI, RICHARD M. SADOWSKI, FRED RAHAI.M. URBAN KO­
. KENGE, DAN DOAWEY, BILL CAMPBELL, 
DAVE SMITH, JAMES SMITH, J. TYSON, FRED GORE, LEO J. BURBY, CHESTER SADOWSKI, DR. F. MONSOUR, JAMES DOWNEY, TOM WALKER, BILL HICKEY, GEORGE GORE, HAL PETERS, DON J. SMYTH, C. M. MAUCH, JR., MIKE ZOROVICH, JOHN GVLLAN, RICHARD WHALEN, WILLIAM B. MADDEN, RICHARD BRODEUR, L/\WRENCE LALLY, DR. W. B. WELCH, DR. JAMES F. COONEY, J. WADE NODA. ED MURRAY, GEORGE RUDOLPH, JR.. JOHN MORRISON, JOHN .McMANUS, JOHN J. KLEE, JOHN R. ATKINS, JAMES F. DOYLE, CHARLES NETTER, CYRIL STROKER, RICHARD MURPHY, G. J. GE>VRON, JAMES B. RICE. FR.ANK J. ROMANO, JR., AL KESSING, HENRY ROMANO. AL JOH,\NNES, PAUL NOWAK, and HENRY S. KEEL. 
Officers and directors of the Notre Dame Cliib of Fort Lauderdale present included Mr. and Mrs. FRANK McDONOUGH, (Prcs.), '41: Vice-Pres.. FRANK MCGINN , '32: Treasurer JOHN McGINN and Mrs. McGinn, '54: Secretarv TOM MURR.VY, '52; Mr. and Mrs. DICK WHALEN, '41; Mr. and Mrs. TOM NOl-AN, '43; Mr. and ytrs. BOB GORE. '31; Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES BACHMAN, '17: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN SULLIV,\N, '31. 
In addition to tticse convention registrants, 75 additional Notre Dame men with their wives attended the banquet celebrating Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Fort Wayne 
LOUIS F. NIEZER, president of the Tokhcim Corp., was named "Man of tlic Year'* for 1957 at the anniiiil Notre Danic Universal Ni.qlit ban­quet. Tlie REV. JOHN' J. aWAXAUGH, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation and former president of the University was the featured speaker at the bannuel. Niezer. a graduate of Notre Dame in 1929. was presented the winnini; plaqur' by the 195G winner, DONNELLY McDONALD, SR. JEROME J. 0*DOWD was toastmaster for thc evcning. 
Working in cooperation with the Fort Wayne Notic Dame Campus Club, a program was held at Central Catholic High School explaining the merits of a Xotrc Dame education. Tlie principal speaker for this event was FATHER BROESTL, C.S.C. 
On June 5, the annual Golf Stag was held at the Elks Countr>' Club. Chairmen for this event were MICHAEL O'HAILV and TOM LOGxVN. 
—JOSEPH H. DANIEL, Scc>-. 
Hawaii 
WALTER TAGAWA, '52. was installed as presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of Hawaii at the Universal Notre Dame Night festivities bv outgoing president HARRY MEDEIROS. '53. The other officers arc: vicc-presidci.t, DON MACHADO, '50; sccrctar>-. VAL CHUN, 'M; treasurer. NEIL VAS­CONCELLOS, '53. Club directors JOSEPH ARAKI and HENRY VASCONCELLOS, with terms ending in 19GI, \.-cre also named. 
Guest speaker at the banquet v.*as Fatlier Robert 
R. Mackey. S.M., president of Chaminadc College of Honolulu. Member:, guests and friends were reminded: "If all education were slate and federally 

, supported, the menace of state and federal control would alwa^'s be immanent; and tiic inner-logic of such controls leads to totalitarianism in education and the death of democratic life. . . . Private capital welcomes young men with ideals. For pri­vate owne:ship will continue to exist in our land only as long as American institutions remain truly democratic. Prix-ate industr>' Is looking for junior executives schooled in the principles of freedom upon which this industry rests. Pri\-ate capital, consequently, is interested in fostering and preserx'­ing private colleges and prix-atc education in gen­eral." 
M.C. TOM FL^'NN, '34. introduced among the many guests Holy Cross FATHER BRIDENSTEINE who is a chaplain stationed here in the Islands. 
—VAL CHUN, '54, Sccj-. 
Indianapolis 
DR. THOMAS P. CARNEY, vice-president of research, development and control for Eli Lilly & Co., was named "Man of the Year" April 21 by the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis. 
The award was made at the annual Universal Notre Dame Night celebration in the Athenaeum. S'otre Dame alumni and wives attended the dinner meeting. 
Dr. Carney has written books on clicmistr>* and holds patents on chemical products. Last summer he was ncmcd a special consultant to Welfare Sccrctar>- Marion B. Folsom. 

Dr. Carney was cited "in recognition of hk con­tributions to science and for his efforts in bringing into focus the relatior^ship between God and science. He has thereby proved himself to be a Notre Dame man in the rich significance of moral, responsible leadership for whicli his Notre Dame training equipped him." 
Principal speaker was REV. JOHN J. CAVA­NAUGH, C.S.C., former president of the Univer­sity and now director of the Notre Dame Founda­tion. In line with the 566 million development drive, Father Ca^-anaugh said, the University is searching throughout the world for top scholars as teachers. 
New club officers elected were: LEO BARN­HORST, president; THO.MAS R. BULGER, vice-president; CHARLES E. STIMMING, secretarv, and RICHARD OWENS, treasurer. Elected as directors for ihrce-vear terms were JOHN F. FORD and JOHN D. HARRINGTON. 
The annual Beer Bust was held on June 2Gih. BILL S.\HM, '50, who Is athletic director of the CYO actiWties in Indianapolis, was chairman of this year's party. HARVEY FOSTER, '38, who recently returned to head the local F.B.I,, grilled hamburgers for all comers. ' 
The Golf Tournament and Dinner was held July 17th at the Broadmoor Counlr^' Club under chairman BUD TURNER, '48. TO.M'MATEY, '53, and JOHN FOLEY, '55, were two former Notre Dame golf team captains who vied with Li\RRY SEXTON, '33, KARL JOHNSON, '29, and PAT FISHER, '35, for top honois. 
On August I6th JLM KRE.MER, '50, originally from the East, now a Hoosier, married Miss Shirley O'Brien, who is the sister of TOM O'BRIEN, '53. Tom is one of the leading automobile dealers in town and tied at the class reunion for the honor of having the largest family—he has five beautiful children. 
Tip to the N.D. track team—^John Elder, Jr., son of JACK ELDER, '30, has been placing In all the local grammer school track events. He will be following his father's footsteps at N.D. in only eight years. 
Later In the summer a family picnic is being planned, while in the autumn we will run our annual football train to either the Army or the Duke game. BILL WELSH, '57, is chairman of this event which furnishes most of the proceeds for our local scholarship program. 
—CHUCK STIMMING, *53, Sco-. 

Jackson 
A woman. Sister Mary Stephen, was named "Notre Dame Man of the Year" by the Jackson Club. The unusual recipient, a FcIIcian mm, » directress of St. Joseph home for Boys, Jackson^ Michigan. 
Kentucky 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Kentucky sponsored its annual retreat to the Abbey of Our Lady of Gethsemani, Trappist, Kentucky, on May 23, 24, and 25, 1958. Approximately forty men attended, ranking this among the most successful ever. 
The Club gathered .in Univer.'ial Notre Dame-Night on April 19, at the Provincial House in Louisville for an cnjovable dinner dance. The-REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., our honored guest, and more than one hundred others attended'the affair, at which the new officers for the ensuing year were announced. LEO J. BROWN, JR., '50, was elected President; JOHN R. KINNEY, '45, 1st V.P.; JOSEPH S. BOWLING^ '52. 2nd V.P.; JAMES C. KREBS, '56, Secretary; JOHN E. .MUELLER, JR., '51, Treasurer. Our congratulations and thanks to our outgoing officers for a job well done! 
Our quarterly Communion Breakfast was held on June 1st, at St. ^[ar>- Magdalene Church. The Improved attendance at this early summer affair vras most gratifying. Tlie Corpus Chrlsti Procession was held at Churchill Downs on June 8th, and the club marched as a group under our banner. 
New students and recent graduates joined in the festivities at our annual dinner meeting on June I9th, at th.; Richmond Boat Club. 
Our summer outing held on July 12th, jointly with the Xavicr University Alumni proved again to be one of the most enjoyable events of the year. 
Co-Chairmen BERNARD BOUXING and JStf HENNESSY did a real fine job of planning and staging this all day affair. 
At our regular monthly meetings, among other business matter:^, preliminar>* plaui were laid for the club's annually sponsored football trip to South Beno. 
—JAMES C. KREBS, '56, Secy-

La Crosse 
0.1 April 13, 1953, the Notre Dcrae Club of La Crosst: held a most successful Universal Notre Dame Night celebratlun. A banquet was held at the Stoddard Hotel with Bishop J. P. Tracey and 
SAGINA>V VALLEY—Rev. John Cavanaugh, C^-C N. D. Foundation director, was a guest at two gatherings in the Saginaw area, a Foundation luncheon and UJ^J). Night dinner. Left to right are Eugene F. Mathews, luncheon chairman; Father Cavanaugh; Carl \V, Doozan, U.N.D. Night chainnan, and Vincent T. B6yle, Midland, Mich., club president and toastmaster. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 2958 37 
PHILADELPHIA—^Four contributors to the Philly Club's successful Universal Notre Dame Night at Cherry Hill Inn were (left to right) John Moorhead, "Man-of-the-Ycar"; John Jordan, Notre Dame basketball coach; Walt Grothaus, club president, and Gerry Voit, U.N.D. Night chairman. 
FATHER TOM BRENXAX, C.S.C., as guest speakers. Eighty four alumni, their wives and friends had a ver>- enjoyable evening. 
On June 21, tlie club held a supper dance at the La Crosse Country- Club. DON WELCH, '51, and hij trio proWded the music. The music was soft, the weather not and the food good. A fine time was had by all. 
Plans for the annual fall mixed couple steak fry arc well underway. This Is ah^-ays a successful party and the crisp Wisconsin autumn weather sharpens the appetite for the big steaks the fellows round up. 
AUGIE GRAMS maJc the SO-vear reunion in June while STE\'E P.W'EL/V and BOB NLVNEMAN were back for their lO-ycar reunion. 
GENE SMITH has returned to L^ Crosse as District Manager for Equitable Life Assurance and DR. PHILLIP UTZ recently opened offices in La Crescent, Minnesota, just across the Mississippi River from La Crosse. The JOE BECKERS, BILL MURPHYS and BOB HACKNERS recently had additions to their families. 
—JERRY HEBERLEIN, Sec>'. 

Lehigh Valley 
On Saturday April 12, the Lehigh Valley Club held its second Universal Xotre Dame Night cele­bration. With almost 200 alumni and friends of Notre Dame in attendance the group heard ad­dresses by botli F.ATHER THOM.AS O'DONNELL, C.S.C., and JOHN MacCVULEY of the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Although spottsored by one of the smallest and youngest clubs In the Alumni association the affair was a tremendous success and thoughly enjoyed by all those who attended. 
Tlie evening opened with a Holy Hour con­sisting of the rosar>', sermon and benediction at St. Catherine of Siena parish la Allentown, Pa. Wc believe that this practice Is unique in the .-\lumni Association and would recommend it to otiier clubs as a particularly fitting way to open the observance of a occasion such as U.N.D.* Night. 
Following the Holy Hour, the group drove to the Hotel Traylor in .Allentown, for a social hour and a dinner dance. Thi addresses by the two visiting representatives of the foundation and the installation of the new club officers were the highlights of the meeting at the hotel. 
New club officers include, TOM LENNON, Drcsidcnt; BILL MARTIN, vice president; TOM MAGILL, secreiar>% and BOB GREENE, treasurer. 
Both Father O'Donncll and Mr. McCaulcy in their talks pointed out the University's needs and hopes for the future and cmpliasized the need for the support of tlic University's many alumni and friends. 
The entire affair and Its success were the result of active committee cfTort. Retiring club presi­dent, DR. LOUIS T. GABRIEL, JR., and the committee composed of Chairman BILL MARTIN, BOB N.ANOVIC and Jx\CK MAGILL worked 
tirelessly to Insure ac=ompIisIimcnt of the obscr\*­ancc. —TOM MAGILL, Sec>-. 
Miami 
Our meeting on Tuesdav April 1 featured, under the direction of GEORGE BR/\UTIGAM, Program chairman for April, an Interesting and Informative report on the collaboration of American prisoners ot war with tlie enemy in Korea. Sgt. Revell, on the training staff of the University of Miami brought n tape recording of the findings as given by Government Investigators. BILL WELCH also cited experiences dealing with the subject, and those of you who have read Vol.-3G No. 3 of the 
N.D. ALUMNUS for April will recall an article quoting a talk by Senate Investigator Robert F. Kennedy, upon receipt of the "1958 Patriotism Award" at N.D. wherein he remarked that such collaboration was due to lack of self-discipline on the part of those who were guilty. 
Dates to be circled on the calendar arc August 
23rd—annual picnic (Cabanas are arranged for at 
Crandon Park)—and December 18th (Thursday)— 
the annual Christmas Dinner-Dance at Coral 
Gables Countrv Club. 
Wc arc advised that BOB PROBST has been 
elected President of the Florida Notre Dame Club 
ott the campus, and was chosen as General Chair­
man of the annual Easter Dance, held this year at 
the Hollywood Beach Hotel. Congratulations Bob. 
April wa» higliligl'tcd by the 4th Annual STATE 
CONVENTION at Ft. Lauderdale and the Miami 
area was represented by over -10 for the banquet 
at which FATHER JOYCE was the principal 
speaker. Father Joyce discussed the 66 million 
dollar program for Notre Dame's ensuing 10 years; 
with th; need for faculty funds pre-eminent; re­
search, student and administrative and new build­
ing funds are essential. Tlie 1947-1957 goal of 
25 million v.-a; exceeded by 2 million, he said. 
Greater representation at the Sea Ranch Hotel 
was in evidence this year with Alumni from Cali­
fornia to New York in attendance. In the 
numerous contests for tournament prizes, DAN and 
DEE ROWI^VNDS won the bridge award: LYLE 
RUSSELL and CHARLIE NLVHER the shuffle­
board first prizes; and amidst all (he bullthrowlng 
among the spectators and contestants there was some 
action down at the O.K. Corral in the throwing of 
horseshoes with lop honors going to a team com­
posed of ED KELLY and T "ringer" from Lauder­
dale. 
Tennis was limited to the klppercd-herring clan of HOWARD KORTH, JIM SMITH, RUSSELL and MAHER. Proof of the most activities was spectacularly recorded through the lens of URBAN KOKENGE'S voigtlander, Nfiloia and Polaroid. The GEORGE COURYS entertained with some superb Svrian dessert, both DICK and CHET SADOWSKI families were on hand and PARIS COWART S were represented In strength: the HENRY KEELS did a dance specialty and BUT> Li\LLY was referee non-compusmedis; others who were there Included the MIKE O'NEII-S, GEORGE BR.\TIGAMS ED L^VUTHS, BOB REILLYS, JOHN THORNTONS, BOB H.ANDTE, et cetera, et cetera. .. . I. I. PROBST who was home sick at time of Convention is now back In full harness. 
To those of you who missed the NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB at B3rr>- College In the final of their Cultural Series—it was a wonderful program, and truly a credit to U.N.D.—the encores were many and well deserved. 
TIic ^fay meeting at the Urmey was arranged for by BILL WELCH, program chairman, and featured a color film on Cancer research, followed by a talk by Dr. Robert J. McKcima, M.D. mem­ber of .-\merlcan Cancer Society speaker bureau, with comments by Mr. Pater of the same organiza­tion. 
We arc indeed pleased at the good fortune of baring FRt\NK LEAHY attend the May meeting on little more than a few hours notice, hence there was not time to pass *'the word." Through the fine cooperation of JACK HOUGHTELING we were able to arrange for Hayes. Brickman, Wilson and KolskI of Archbishop Ciurley and Elllscn of St. Theresa's to be on hand to receive All- Cath­olic football awards by FRANK on behalf of our Greater Miami Club. Coverage by photographers from WTVJ, Herald ixnd Miami News. (ART HIMBERT gave its coverage on the convention and we do appreciate his help too). FRANK gave us a nice talk following the presentation, and wc 
arc most appreciative of his thought fulness. At 
CINCINNATI—Guest Terry Brennan accepts a $4,000 check for the Notre Dame Founda­the meeting was E. D. SATPLES, class of 1902 tion to bring the Scholarship Fund of the Cincinnati Club to $25,000. Left to right, Club (bearer cf 50-year gold medal as a N.D. Alumnus 
and a former monogram man—track. His guest 
Secretary John McCormick, Coach Brennan, Club President Ray Gudmcns, Vice-President 
was Mr. Wclsbock. Other ne\*' faces on hand 
Steve Heekin and Treasurer Rockne Morrissey. were: LARRY COUTRE, JIM STINE, JOE 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 
DALLAS—Coach Terry Brcnnan addresses the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner at the Dallas Country Club. At the speakers' table, left to right, Rev. J. M. Rick, C.S.C., and Brother Hilarion Brezik, C.S.C., both of Boy's Ranch, Bedford, Texas; Dave Lajoic, club treas­urer; Henry Neuhoff III, secretary; Hal Tehan, president; Terry Brennan; Rt. Rev. Msgr. William F. O'Brien, chaplain, and Lank Smith,, whose election as president for the coming year was announced at the dinner. 
MAR/VH, JIM ARMBRUSTER and DICK GOR­MAN snd wc hope these will get into the regular habit of the "first Tliursday." 
The Jul e meeting was held in the exclusive UNIVERSI'n' CLUB room at the Urmcy Hotel where wc expect to hold the June and subsequent meetings. Special arrangements were made for the use of these sumptuous facilities (private bar, TV, game tables, dining area, etc.) through the help of MIKE 0*NEIL, BILL HUNTLEY and AL QUINTON. 
Among the more than fifty who were on hand, new faces irxluded those of MAURICE C. NACK­LEY, JR. (new Pres. Fla. Club-on-Campus) with his dad; JOSEPH KRUPP with his dad; J. MICH­AEL KELLY with his dad; JOHN MURR/VY, '58, Grad. TOM MARIANI, DON MURRx\Y and DICK GORMAN. 
Other ncv.- faces included: AHKE ZELLER, '39; BILL STREETER, *34; .\NDY POWERS, *28: JIM McSHANE, JR., '48; BILL McSH^VNE, '51; DALE RENAULT, JR., '55: JOE 0*MARAH, '30; JIM ARMBRUSTER, '40; BILL HUNTLEY, JR., '48; BERNARD FEENEY, '39; HERB NADExVU, '35; A. E. DUFFY, ED BURESS, WILLLVM WELER, '48; ED STAPLES, '02;JOHN A. SHAY; 
S. D. WEISSBUCH—and—there were many of the old regulars on hand. The "Highlights'* of the May meeting were those on the '57 HIGHLIGHTS film shown to the satisfaction of all, especially the "dethroning" of Oklahoma. 
Also at the meeting was shown the color movie on Notre Dame, and for those of you who might know of a Club or group interested In seeing this interesting film—please contact one of the Club officers for arrangements. 
The Club Board of Directors met and selected ED KELLY as chairman. Discussed were items of scholarship finance and the selection of new associate members Ria\RDO ^fADDEN and JACK LEWIS. 

July 3rd—^just before the holiday week end, we had a smoker at which the '*card carr>'ing" dues-paid mcmberi indulged in free beer, compliments of the Club. 
Michigan City 
On April 12, 1958 the Notre Dame Club of Michigan City, Indiana, ob£er\'ed Universal Notre Dame Night. Club members and their wives at­tended a dinner at Hirscliman's Willard Sea Food Restaurant. We enjoyed a fine attendance and all present will long remember this occasion. 
DOCTOR ROBERT FROST explained the details of the Irish Greens Golfing Party. It was held on July 17, 1958 at the Municipal Golf Course. This ever-popular golf party hzs become a tradition with the Michigan City Club and under the chair­manship of Dotor Frost, we were again a successful party. 
The officers of the Notre Dame Club of Michigan City, Indian;; for the vear 1958 arc: LOUIS E. BLrVCK, '49, President; ED^VARD J. DWYER, '50, Vice President; WILLIAM J. PRIEBE, '>J, Treas­urer, and NORBERT SCH.\f\F, '50, Secretary-. 
—LOUIS E. BLACK, Prcs. 

Milwaukee 
Members of th^ Milwaukee Club were saddened bv the departure of the man known to most of Milu-aukee as "'Big Brother." BROTHER L.\W­RENCE MILLER, C.S.C.. left town June 9 for a meeting of the Provincial Chapter of the Brothers of Holy Cross. This summer he is conducting a refresher novitiate at .Akron, Ohio, and he will be reassigned. Brother Lawrence is widely beloved as director of St. Ch't.'Ies Boy's Home here for 15 years. 
The current fiscal year of the Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee got off to a fine beginning on Tuesday, July 1, with the election of officera and the passing of an amendment to the Club constitution. WALTER O. SCHNEIDER was ele\-ated by the membership to the office of President; during the past successful year, Walt scr\'cd as Treasurer for the organization. A B.S.-M.E. grad in 1954, Walt is a product engineer at Chain Belt Co. in Milwaukee; he has a one year old daughter. BOB GROGAN received the Vice President position, and in that role will be responsible for rdl social activities of the Club for the year. .An A.B. grad in 1937, Bob is Vice President in Charge of Distri­bution and Supply at Clark Oil and Reftmng Corp. Re-elected Secretary was JOHN MANION, a 1956 
B.5.C. Marketing graduate. He is a wholesale sales representative with Clark Oil and Refining; John is expecting the first heir in October. A 1954 >r.E. grad, JOE MESEC, received a majority of votes for the Treasurer's office. Mescc Is with Allis Chalmer's Mfg. Co. and at the time of this writing was awaiting the birth of a second offspring. DR. JAMES A. BYRNE, immediate past president of the Milwaukee Club will be President Emeritus for the fiscal year. Jim Is a 1&40 B.A. and I9i3 ^LA. grad in education and is presently Director of Marquette University's rapidly expanding Evening Division. 
TIic Constitutional Amendment calls for the holding of four general meetings to be held during each fiscal year rather than monthly business sessions as have been held in the past. 
JOE ^lESEC was named Chairman of the Second 

OKLAHOMA CITY—Seated at the head table for Universal Notre Dame Night at Oklahoma City Golf and Country Club are (left to right) Mrs, Ancel Earp, Mr. Earp, "Man-of-the-Year"; Mrs. Charles L. Monnot, Jr.; President Monnot, '34; Rev. Glcim Boatman, C.S.C; Most Rev, Victor J. Reed, Bishop of Oklahoma City-Tulsa; Ed Kavanaugh, '38, and Joan Kavanaugh; Dr. Al Drescher,"'38, and Betty 
Drescher; Janics Hopkins and Msgr. Walde. 

Noire Dame AlumnuSy August-September, 1958 39 
NEW ORLEANS—Club President James E. Smith (left) with some of the stars of Universal Notre Dame Night at New Orleans' Jung Hotel: Father John Cavanaugh, C5.C., director of the N.D. Foundation; Jules K. de la Vergne, district governor and alumni director, and William Dreux, toastmaster. 
Annual Family Picnic held at Greenfield Park on Sunday, August 31. An excess of one hundred people u-erc expected tor the affair which featured ball games, contests for young and "old" and a watermelon eating contest for the youngsters. 
The Annual Summer Golf Stag Outing was set for August 14 (Tliursdav) at the Port Washington Countr>- Club. Chairman was BOB ROLFS, JR., who did a magnificent job directing the day's activities whicli included a full day of golfing, a fine steak dinner in the evening, and the award­ing of many excellent dtnir and blind bogey prizes. Bob was t!ic defending low gross champion, having won the Notre Dame trophy in 1956 and 1957. 
Any alumni wishing to join the Xotrc Dame Club of Milwaukee are asked to contact JOHX MANIOX at EVergrecn 4-8913. 
Two former N.D. golf aces, TOM VEECH, '52, and BILL SCH.ALLER, '41, gained prominence on Sunday, July 6 in Milwaukee. Tommy, Wisconsin open golf cliamp, pared 12 strokes from par at the North Hills course, posting a sizzling 59 card that set a new all-time Wisconsin 18-liolc record. Bill, former state amateur champion, was four under par at Ozaukee with a 66. 
Muskegon 
Wc had a very fine turnout of Clcrgj', ladies, friends and Notre Dame men in number about seventy-five, .-^pril 14 for the Muskegon Club's obscr\'ancc of Univenal Notre Dame Night. It was held at the Muskegon Country Club. 
Wc enjoyed very much having JOHNNY JOR­DAN and Mrs. Jordan to represent the University, and he gave a very fine talk on Notre Dame's program and mixed in a little about athletics. 
The oHicers for the coming vear arc: President. JACK FIT2PATRICK; Vice President, JOHX BIERBUSSE; WILLIAM TARDANI to continue as Treasurer, and myself a£ Sccretarv-. 
GEORGE W. CrVXXOX, JR., was selected as Notre Dame Man of the Year. —LEO L. LIXCK, Scc>-. 
Naugatuck Valley 
The Vallcj' Club played host to two other clubs, New Haven and Hartford (Connecticut Valley) on Universal Xotrc Dame Xiglit, Sunday, .\pnl 13, 1958, at the Wavcrly Inn, Chcscliire, Conn., with over 200 in attendance. Guest .'pcakcr was EDWARD "MOOSE" KRAUSE, N,D. athletic director. Introductory speaker was REV. JOHN 
J. SULLIVAN, first club cliaplain. Scholarship awards were made to Peter McCass­

40 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 
land of Waterbur\' and Charles CaravatJ of Tor­rington. Receiving the awards were Peter McCass­land, Sr., and Mrs. Caravati, Charles' mother. Treasurer JAMES J. SCIGLIANO made the pre­sentation. The scholarships were awarded for the second successive ytar and arc based on scholastic ability and financial need. 
Tlic Notre Dame Man of the Year award went to FATHER SULLIVAN, the original club chap­lain, of Scmcrs. Conn., in appreciation for volun­tary services rendered to the club in addition to his dev'otioa despite his transfer from the Waterbury area to r. tow.a 100 miles away. BERT HEXEBRY made the presentation. 
Officers of the Naugatuck Valley Club were in­stalled bv Moose KrauEc. Tlicy arc: President, WILLIAM R. DWTER, '53; Vice President, ALFRED SULLIVAN, '52; Secretar>-. XORBERT 
F. HEXEBRY, '40, for the I2lh vear. and Treas­urer, JAMES SCIGLIAXO, '42. All reside in \Valerbury. 
Officers were also installed for the Notre Dame Golden Dome Club of the Naugatuck Valley, a ''subway alumni" group based in Waterbury, the first organized group of its kind, founded by Bert Henebry in Januar>% with Bert and Jim Scigliano as co-ordinators. Officers are: President, Police Sgt. Frank McNamara, Stratford; \1ce President, Andrew McDermott, Naugatuck; Secretary*, Lucille Coughlin. Waterbury, and Treasurer, Judith Buck­ingham, Waterbur>'. 
Final feature of the program was a kick-off for the N.D.-Nav\* Football Excursion from Waterbury-to Baltimore, Md., November I. to leave Watcrbur\­at 5:30 a.m. Since Nov. I is a Holy Day special arrangements have been made with Rev. Harr>­Struck, pastor of Immaculate Conception Churcli, Waterbury, for a special pic-escursion Mass at 
5:00 a.m. The kick-uff was in the form of a door prize, game and round-trip railroad tickets, won by HANK McGAXX, president of the Con­necticut Valle>' Club in Hartford. 
On June 13 the club held "Xick Pictrosante Night." Between showings of the campus film and the 1957 Football Highlights Nick held a question­and-answer period on the university and athletics. Arrangements wen; by MAURICE NOONAN, ALFRED SULLIVAN and WILLIAM DWYER under the co-chairmanship of Bert Henebry and Jim Scigliano. 
New Haven 
On January 19th, the Club held its Annual Com­munion Breakfast. Tlilrty persons—members of the Club and their families—received Holy Communion at the Dominican Church of St. Mary's, and later 
J958 
breakfasttrd at the famed G. & H. Restaurant on 
Temple St. Tlie turnout was inspiring, especially 
since the area was still in the grip of the worst 
winter seizure' it has experienced In over 50 years. 
I noticed that the sub-freezing temperatures put 
a keen edge on N.D. appetites. 
President EO. BYRNE, '26, rose up to commend 
the bo>'s and their families for the fine showing. 
He announced that the next meeting of the Club 
would take up the business of election of officers 
and prepar;»tion for Universal Notre Dame Night. 
.Among those present. In addition to Byrne and 
Sccretar>- WALTER LEE—who had liIs good wife 
and three children along—were: Mr. and Mrs. 
LARRY CULLINEY; Mr. and Mrs. AL LAWTON 
and two children; Dr. and Mrs, JOE CLIFFORD 
and three children; Mr. and Mrs. RAY PIONTEK 
and two children; PAUL BLONDIX and his two 
bo\^; CHARLIE DUCEY, JOE BEXOIT, TOM 
HILS, PAUL and JOHN WALKER, and yours 
truly. 
DR. JOHN O'NEILL, who had to miss the 
Breakfast because of the Imminent arrival of Sir 
Stork, now claims a son, born just a few da\'s 
after the 19tli; this makes John a pop three times 
over. 
THOMAS J. HILS Class of '35, of the editorial staff of the New Haven Register, received the Man of the Year Award for 1958 from the New Haven Notre Dame Club and the REV. JOHN J. SULLIVAN of Somers, Conn., received a similiar au*ard from the Naugatuck Valley Notre Dame Club at the I3th annual dinner April 13 held jointly by ll.c Valley group In conjunction with the New Haven unit at the Saratoga Room of Wavcrly Inn, Cheshire, Conn. 
.About 300 members of the Valley Club and the New Haven Club and of the Notre Dame Golden Dome Club (subway alumni) paid tribute to the two honored and heard ED "MOOSE" KR.AUSK, director of athletics at N.D. 
HIls, who has been In the newspaper field for over 16 years, was active on both the staffs of The Scliolastic and the old N.D. Juggler while on campus. He also participated in tennis and cross­country- teams. He preWously was assistant news editor of the Montgomery" (Ala.) Advertiser and on the editorial staffs of the Tampa Times and the Richmond News-Leader (Va.) He was a former classmate of Ed Krause. He was previously active In Schenectady, N. Y., N.D. clubs and in Virginia clubs. He Is married and is the father of two teen-age daughters. 
Rev. Sulliv*an has ser\'cd as chaplain of the Valley Club for many years and was formerly assistant pastor of SS. Peter & Paul Church, Water­bury, Conn He was also toastmaster for the occasion. 
Krause \\-as accompanied by his wife and told the gathering of Notre Dame's 10-year plan for enlarge­ment costing an estimated $66 million. He pointed out that "N.D. could not dc-cmphasize athletics because it never did emphasize them. The univer­sity attempts io get ever>' boy to participate in some sport or Intramural competition on a volun­tary basis and the premise of a sound mind and healthy body makes for a better student." 
—JOSEPH P. BURNS, 'J4. 

New Jersey 
Thanks to the efforts of ELMER MATTHEWS, '47, and Co-cliairman GEORGE PI^VIN, '39, New Jerso^'s Universal Notre Dame Night was a huge success. About 275 attended, and the Club made about 5125.00 after expenses. During the course of the evening Club President RAY TROY, '34, pre­sented FATHER HESBURGH with a $1,000 check for the Notre Dame Foundation. 
—BILL KIRCHNER, '51, Secy. 

New Mexico 
The Notrii Dame Club of New Mexico celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night April 29th at the Bxxtcr Steak House In Albuquerque. We were privileged to have as our speaker F. L. (MIKE) LAYDEN who was accompanied by his charming wife ifary Ellen. It is doubtful that anyone, after the first meeting, did not feel that Mike and his wife w*erc old friends. Mike spoke on the academic future of Notre Dame, and explained the Univer­sity's admission policy which Is of course of Interest to all X'^otre Dame graduates. 
—JERRY LO.MBARDI, Secy. 

New Orleans 
The Notre Dame Club of New Orleans celebrated Universal Xotrc Dame NIcht with a banquet at the Jung Hotel. FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH, of the Notre Dainc Foundation, graced the occasion with his presence and gave an inspiring talk on the Xolrc Dame of the future. Father Cav-anaugh brought with him his able assistant, JAMES FRICK. 
The large gathering of Xotre Dame men, their wives, and sweethearts was evidence of the grow­ing enthusiasm in New Orleans for Notre Dame men and their leaders. 
The banquet brought to a close a year of in­creased activity in the club and much thanks is due to Mr. JAMtiS SMITH, the club president, who lias worked tirelessly to make the club better known and appreciated in the Queen City of the South. 
—JOSEPH DAVID III, Secy. 
New York 
The Notre Dame Club of New York celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night on Thursday evening, April 10th, with a formal dinner dance at the Park Lane Hotel. FATHER HESBURGH was the guest speaker of the eveniitg, and he was enthusiastically received by his audience of Notre Dame almunt and their friends. Other distinguished guests on the dais included JOHN S. BURKE, JOHN COLE­MAN, Laetare Medalist Frank Folsom, VICTOR 2IMINSKY, MSGR. MOORE, Chaplain at the United States Miiitar\- Academv, and FATHER RICHARD FALLON, dais of 1940. 
During the course of the evening, the Club an­nounced that the recipient of its Man of the Year Award was JOHN DUFFY, class of 1945. Tlic Trust Fund Committee met on April 28th 

tf to select the winners of the scholarships given each year by the Club. Two scholarships with a value . of two thousand dollars each were awarded, one !'• to Dennis Strojny of Sacred Heart High School in 
Yonkers, and the other to Gerard Nichols of St. Francis Prep of Brooklyn. 
Smokcn> were held by the Long Island and Bronx-Westclmtcr Dinsions en the nights of ^lay 14th and May 15th. Hugh Devorc was on hand, and the filmed highlights of the 1957 football season were shown. Local high school football coaches were among the Club's guests at the Smokers. 
Long Island had its annual outing, a pool party (swimming, that is) June 21 at Pierce Country Day School, Roslyn, L.I. .An old-fashioncd wiener n>a5t and other refreshments topped off the water events and assorted sports. 
The annual golf outing was held June 26 at the Westchester Hills Golf Club, RIdgcway, White Plains, N. Y. The event featured individual prizes and also a round-robin tournament. Long Island vs. Westchester vs. Manhattan. Swimming and door prizes were also on the program. Tlie outing was lopped off witli a full-course steak dinner. 
—.\UGUSTIN S. HARDART, JR., Sec>-. 
Alumni members of ihc New York Athletic Club have organized a dab known as the "Dome Club," Meetings are scheduled for the third TImrsday of every month after cocktails and buffet suppci. Dance p-rties are held monthly (third Saturday) at Travers Island. 
Northern California 
EDWARD .MADIG.VN and J.AMES PHEL.VN, 
N.D. stars who became coaching hcadliners, re­ceived honor plaques from the Helms Foundation ILill of Fame May 10 at the Sheraton-Palace Hotel. Pat O'Brifcn was toastraasler for a civic dinner co­sponsored by- the Notre Dame Club of Northern California and almumui Sft. Mar>''s, Purdue and Washington. The Madigan and Phelan careers were reviewed in "Golden Dome to Golden Gate,*' read by O'Brien and featuring countless sports stars and celebrities. 
On Universal Notre Dame Night the N.D. Club of Northern California drew 110 to Rickey's Red Chimney in Sionetown. After a cocktail hour the program at dinner included the new campus color film, a Man of the Year Award to A. W. Mc-MULLEN and a talk by REV. THOMAS LANE, 
C.S.C.
 Other guests: REV. EDWARD FITZ-GERiVLD, C.S.C., Air Force lieutenant-colonel and 18-year Air Force chaplain; four Holy Cross Broth­ers from the new St. Francis High, ^fountatn View. McMuIIcn's presentation was made by President 

E.
 F. MANSFIELD, toastmaster for the evening. The entire McMullen family attended, and Mrs. McMullen received a presentation bouquet in blue and gold. 


Events proposed for the rest of 1958 include four regional Communion breakfasts, a summer picnic, election, Caltfornia-N.D. gathering with the U. of 
C. athletic staff, student send-olf party, football TV party, Christmas dance and the East-West dinner for Irish stars Sunday, Dec. 28. 
North Florida 
The North Florida Notre Dame Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night at the Jacksonville Na\-al Air Station on April I7th. FATHER EDMOND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., the Executive Vice President was the principal speaker. Another high­light of the evening was the presentation of the Man-of-lhe-Year Award to JOHN BALDWIN, highly successful Basketball Coach and Athletic Director of Bishop Kenny High School. President of the dub. FRED BAUMER, '22, acted as Toast­master. Other officers of the club are: GER^VLD JOHNSON, '50, Vice President, and JOHN COR-RIGxVN, '53, Sec-Treasurer. 
—FRED V. ILXHAI.M, '31. 
Olclahoma City 
The Notre Dame Banquet for the Oklahoma City Club was held at tl:= Oklahoma City Golf and Country- Club, April 29, 1958 and was attended by approximately 130 alumni and friends. This was one of the first public appearances at a Club for our neiv Bishop, Victor J. Reed. ED KAV^VNAUGH was the Banquet Chairman and did a fine job as Master of Ceremonies. FATHER GLENN BOAR­MAN, C.S.C., Rector of Breen-Phillips Hall, and newly appointed Prefect of Religion, made the principal address that was enjoyed and deeply appreciated by all in attendance. 
The "Man of the Year" award went to ^VNCEL E/\RP, Civic leader in Oklalioma City and this award was primarily given for his outstanding ser\'icc to St. Anthony Hospital. Oklahoma City, Okla. The au-ard drew ver\* favorable comment especially because ^tr. Earp is a Non-CathoHc. Tlic "Boy of the Year" award went to James Hopkins of Marquette School in Tulsa, Okla. In­cidentally, this award is becoming quite a prize possession in this area. The publicity for this occasion was exceedingly well handled by ^Irs. Gloria Brcmkamp. We had coverage from both television stations locally and was on the 10 P.Nf. Newscasts for both stations. 
Officers of the Oklahoma Citv Club arc: CHARLES L. MONNOT, JR., '34, President; WILLIAM J. O'CONNOR, '48, Vice President; RICH/\RD M. HOFF. '32, Seci-etary, and W. A. (JACK) N.VSHERT, JR., '54, Treasurer. 
—CHARLES L. MONNOT, JR.. Pres. 
Orange County 
DISNEYLAND HOTEL SCENE OF NEWEST 
ALUMNI CLUB 
Out of the mouths of babes we heard: ''Is this the Gold and Blue meeting?" The "babe" in this case was KEENE FITZPATRICK, '13, the oldest graduate to attend the first annual meeting of the recently organized N.D. Club of Orange County (California) on U.N.D. Night, April 14, at the Disneyland Hotel in Anaheim, California. 
\Vith GENE KENNEDY, '22, Vice President of the .-Mumnt Association, fighting 35 miles of free­way traffic to come down from Los Angeles to be our featured speaker, were 76 other alumni, ex-students and their wives to help lay the keel for a most successful journey of one of the newest N.D. clubs in the nation. 
Wishing the new officers '"smooth sailing over what will probably be rough waters -. . the alumni will turn out for meetings if you give them something worth while. . . ," Gene Kennedy smiled and handed the job of installing BILL VANGEN, '49, as President, to COL. FR.ANK J. CAREY, '17, 
U.S.A. (Ret), Working with BJII this year will be JOHN J. MAHON, JR., '42, Vice President; JOHN GLAAB, '47, Treasurer, and BADEN POWELL, '32, as Secretary. The Board of Di­rectors ar=: COL. FRANK J. CAREY, '17, ROBERT D. LIGHTFOOT, '.=)3, ROBERT F. BERNARD, '36, and ROBERT R. KIERN.AN, '39. 
Dining and dancing in the Poolside room of the Disneyland Hotel, the boys really showed their enthusiasm for our own local dub and shouted their praise on seeing the 30-minute sound film on Noire Dame as it is today. Many **oh's and ah's" came from thote of us who haven't been back to the campus for several years. It is a beautiful film and we hope to show it again to our friends In fabulous Orange County, the fastest growing county In the Nation. 
One of the primary* goals of this dub is to have 100% membership participation in the N.D. Founda­tion and to enlist thg aid of as many other bene­factors as possible. 
Highlights of the '57 football season were featured at the next meeting of the Club on May 27 at the Disneyland Hotel. Plans will then be drawn up for a family picnic in August, appointment of the Scholarship Committee, and the first outline of the proposed specbl award to be given by the 

FLINT—Principals at the Flint Club's Universal Notre Dame Night included (left to right): James J. Sherry, club president; Man-of-the-Ycar Hubert L. Curtis, AG Spark Plug Division works manager, and Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, guest speaker. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 41 
NORTH FLORIDA—Jacksonville's U.N.D. Night featured the naming of John A. Baldwin, '33, as Man-of-thc-Ycar. From left, Fred Baxmicr, president of the North Florida Club; Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive \-icc-prcsidcnt of the University; Baldwin; Al 
Kessing, '40, chairman of the affair, and Louis Finskc, '21, club director, who presented the award. 
Club to tlic "Outstanding High School Boy of the 
Year in Orange County." 
Among lliosc cnjoving the festivities on U.X.D. Kight were: DAVE WALKER. '53, BILL VAX­GEN. M9, RUDY OBERGFALL, '34, DICK O'NEIL, '43. TOM MURPHY, '44, DICK MUR­PHY, '53, JxVCK MAHON, JR., '42, GENE LONG, '47, BOB LIGHTFOOT, '53, BOB KIERNAN, '39. ROYCE KENNEDY. '50. BOB KARL, '50, FRANK a\REY, '17, KEENE FITZPATRICK, '13. GENE KENNEDY, '22. BADEN PO\\'ELL, '32. BOB COOK, '54, DICK COURY, '51, RALPH DIXON, '50, D.AN GALLIVAN, '50, JOHN GLAxVB, M7, TERRY HALLORAN. '2G. BOB BERNARD, '36, LT. DICK R. O'CONNOR, '56. U.S.M.C., BART McHUGH, '28, GEORGE KIPP, *20, WALLY ANDREWS, '48, LEN BICE, '54. JIM ^L\RTIN, '44, A. E. TIFFANY, '23, ED ^\^LHELMI, '47, BOB WEBB, '43, JACK DeCOURSEY, '53, his parents, Mr. and Mrs. W. J. DeCourscy who are also the parents of two other N.D. sons, \nnce, *39 and Bill, '42. 
Just to make the DcCourscy's a complete Notre Dame family, Jac'c's %vife Janice is a St. Mar>''s graduate of '52 and is the sister of Lawrence, '55, Robert, '50 and DON KRAEMER of the class of *54. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joe Huartc have the distinction of being the only Orange County family hanng a son at school now. Their son Dave is a sophomore in Engineering. 
DICK COURY, '51. highly successful coach of our only Catholic High School, Mater Dei, peren­nial Parocliial League Champions in all sports, was quite helpful in getting Dave Huarte to attend 
N.D. Dick has three more boys who have been accepted for entrance this fall; John Tidgewcll, Da.*e Ontivcros and John Bernard, whose father' Bob, '36, is a member of our Board of Directors. Mr. John Tidgewcll, Sr., was quite • impressed with the film and in iieeting a real representative group of Notre Dame men. 
FATHER ROBERT ROSS, Club Chaplain, had a dinner date in Rome. Italy and couldn't quite make it back but will be on hand for all of our remaining affairs this year. 
With summer and vacation time approaching we hope to see many of our "Blood Brothers" out this way during the summer. To make it easier for you to locate some of your classmates just look in the Orange County telephone book and you'll probably see his name listed. Los Angeles likes to claim Orange County as a suburb, and we'll go along but only to the extent of gi«ng you a better idea where you'll find Orange Counlv and the NtD. Club. 
Principal cities in the County arc: Santa Ana, Anaheim, Fullcrton, Newport Beach, Laguna Beach, San Clcmcnte, Buena Park, Costa ^icsa, Huntington BeaJi, Balboa and Balboa Island. Good fishing, warm da\-s and delightfully cool nights. Come on out and learn our way of life. 
—BADEN POWELL, '32, Secy. 

Oregon 
Tlic Notre Dam= Chib of Oregon held an election meeting May 28 at the University Club in Portland under the direction of our Past President, HUGH LACEY, '45. 
New ofiiccrs elected for the coming Biennium are: CHARLES SLATT, '33, President; THOMAS MA­GEE, '32, Vice President; GERRY KERNS, '51, Secretary-, and LYLE PEARSON, '50, Treasurer. 
We anticipate increised activity by and interest in the Nctrc Dame Club of Oregon in the coming vcar. 
—GERRY KERNS, Scc>-. 

Peru 
On the 23rJ of this month we had our N.D. reunion celebrating the **Univcrsal N.D. Night," and in this opportunity the color film of the University was shown. 14 alumni assisted. 
Elections took place the same night— President, ENRIQUE LULLl, '45; Vice President, ERIC REV DE CASTRO, '49; Treasurer,-RAUL IBANEZ, '49; Sccretarj-, GUILLERMO MALAGA, '57. 
-After the elections we had a cocktail party for 35 persons and cver\'one commented about tlie wonderful film; the campus and the new buildings surely look much better in technicolor. 
Our new address is now the ofiices of our new President. ENRIQUE LULLI, J-ron Cuzco 440­Lima, Peru. 
—ERIC REY DE CxVSTRO, '49, Retiring Secy. 
Philadelphia 
Universal Notre Dame Niglit for Philadelphia was .'leld at Cherr>- Hill Inn again this year. ' Con­gralulatiDiis %o to GERRY VOIT and his committee for a fint job of n-aking all the arrangements for this aiTalr to incsure it's fucccss. 
Coach JOHN JORDAN and his wife Eileen were most -.viilcame guests. TJicy probably did not feel welcoaiki becaus; the welcoming committee took a wrong turn somewhere in New Jersey and John and Eileen were taken for a wild ride through the wilds .if Southern New Jersey. Coach Jordan gave a very enjo\-able talk on Notre Dame's Athletic Re-Armamcnl. We hope thc^' plan to return to Philadelphia again for a visit. Notre Dame could 
not have two finer Ambassadors. 
Club President WALT GROTHAUS presented 
the club's "Man of the Year Award" to John 
^(oorhead. John is cnc of the most well known and 
Well liked persons in Philadelphia and we were 
all happy to see the award go to a dcscr\-ing 
person such as John ^loorhead. 
Our June Outing was held zt ^[ermaid Lake 
on June 19th. All the Alumni and students who 
attended had a fine time. Many of the old alumni 
(and all of us looked pretty old that day) had 
a cliance to limber up some muscles that we dtd 
not know we had. The baseball was fine along with 
the refreshing swim. We were happy to sec the 
number of students that showed up. and a good 
time was had by all. JACK HARTFORD, our 
chairman is to be congratulated for a fine job. 
Our next meeting will be held on Tues. Sept. 9th 
at the Philopatrian Club, 1923 Walnut Street, at 
8:30 p.m. We will have a party at this meeting for all the students returning to campus. If any 
N.D. men arc visiting our city of "Brotherly Love" on this date, they are welcome to attend this meeting. 
—JIM LEYDON, '49, Scc>-. 

Pittsburgh 
TIic Irish had the situation well in hand at the 
B.P.O. Elks on St. Patrick's day as the Elks honored the Irishmen of the local Lodge. Toast­master Joseph C. Clark, *33 quartcrbacked a star-studded array :t the speakers' stand. 
Starring in the headliners' role was the Honor­
able JOSEPH LEO FITZ.MAURICE, '35, of Wash­
ington, D.C., who held the Brothers in rapt at­
tention as he wove the Irish wands of fancy and 
folklore interspersed with the winged fantasies of 
the future as he bared the "Place of the United 
States in the Future of the Air." 
It sure was a great day for the Irish, as cx­
gcntlcman Jim of Pittsburgh Golden Glove fame 
of nigh onto a quarter ccnlur>* ago, WILLIAM 
JOSEPH MAGARRALL, '32, of now defunct 
Smokey City, icad off the names of the poem of 
"Tltc Fighting Race." of Kelly and Burke and 
Shea, by that famous ancestor of Joe Clark's, 
Joseph Ignatius Constantine Clarke (with the e). 
Tlicrc were no Kellys there, no Sheas either, but a Burke was there, and a West, SAMUEL WEST, '34, and a Conroy, BERNARD W. CONROY. Class of 1931, of New Kensington. Pa., wliich prompted a wag to remark, *'Wliat happened to the Irish of Notre Dame?" "What happened to the Sheeket­ski's and VIks of another year?" **Ah, yes." was an Irisher's reply, "tlu Irish came into their own tonight," and sure and bfgorr>* they did at the Tarentum Elks, Lodge No. 644, who arc so proud of all their fine brothers. 
R. I. & S. E. Mass. 
For universal N.D. Night the club sponsored the appearance of the Notre Dame Concert Band at Bay\'icw Academy in East Providence. Tlie affair was a tremendous success from every point of view. TIic baid members gave a most enjoy­able concert and appeared to have a good time in the prqcesi. Tlic club members had a party pre­ceding the concert, attended the concert and then divided into smaller groups at house parties later on. The good Sistcrr. of Merc\-, who conduct Bay-view, were quite thrilled at the appearance of the band. and.in addition they were the recipients of the proceeds from the affair. 
JIM McMULLEN, '36, earned the Notre Dame ^tan of the Year Award. Jim's talents and his efforts have been an inspiration to the club and to the community, an'I these talents and efforts were certainly in evidence on U.N.D. Night. .\s chair­man of the affair he was in great measure re­sponsible for it> success. 
Tlic week following U.N.D. Night JOHN Mc-L/\UGHLIN and TOM GAMMING were co-chairmen of a luncheon for MOOSE KR.\USE in the Dario Plaza, Wooasocket. About fifty club members and friends turned 04it to greet ^toose— and in this group -vas Rhode Island's famous alum­nus, JULES P. GOLDSTEIN of the class of 1895. Jules attendance at all of the club's main functions is a great example for some of the younger fellows like John McLaughlin and Tom Gamniino. Moose's visit ^vas given good coverage by radio, T\'' and the press. 
PHIL TOOLE acted as chairman for a night baseball outing to Boston early in June. He did sucli a good job we hope he handles it ever\* vear. 
AL GRZEBIEN and BILL WOLFE are c^c'hair­mcn of the annual going away party for students whicli will be held early in September. 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 
MILWAUKEE—John P. Cullen, left, is presented the "Man-of-the-Year" award by the Milwaukee Club on Universal Notre Dame Night. Shown presenting the award are, left to right. Father Hesburgh, Club President James Byrne and Charles O'Neill, program chairman. John Cullen, '22,'is regional manager of the Veterans' Administration. 
Ontittcd from tlic last edition of club news was the fact that all club officers were rc-ciected for another year. We know PAUL HOEFFLER and his assistants will keep club affairs moving along as they did this past year. 
—JOHX J. CURTIX, '48, Secy. 
Rochester 
The Rocliestcr Notre Dame Ahiiniii Club held their celebration of Universal Xotre Dame Niglit on Friday, April lltli at the Starlight Roof of the Sheraton Hotel in downtown Rochester. Out-going President TOM HIGGINS introduced tlie inimitable JERRY KLYNX a3 toastmaster for the evening. Distinguishi-d g"*^*'* included our Chaplain, REV. McMANUS; the Pre.>idrnt of St. John Fisher Col­lege, F.\THER MURPHY and our Great Speaker, ED "MOOSE" KR^VUSE. 
Mr. Krause gave us a very interesting and ex­citing report on Xotre Danie athletics through the past year. He, of course, pointed up the records of the football and basketball teams as being excellent and also brought to our attention the records of the less publicized sports teams. These include the fencing team, track team and the baseball team. 
Later in the program, Tom Higgins introduced the incoming officers. President. DICK KLEE; Vice President. REGGIE .MORRISOX; Secretary-. PHIL FIXXEG.VX, and Treasurer, JOHX aVSEY. The other highlight of the evening along with '•Moose" Krause's speech was the presentation of the "Man of the Year" Award to Mr. VIC DE SiMOX, well known Rochester lawyer and past president of the Notre Dame Club of Rochester. 
—PHIL FIXXEGAN, Secy. 
Rome 
The prime news of the year (already released to all news serxicet) is the Holy Father, PIUS XIPs gracious acceptance of honorary membership in the 
X.D. Club of Rome as also his ccceplance of our fir^t "Man of the Year Award." JERRY .\SHLEY, our Prc\>% knowing that His Holiness is an honorary degree holder from X.D., '36, wrote the Holy Father and all were happily stunned when His Holiness responded enthusiastically. We requested an audience for May 26 at which time the docu­ments of membership and award were presented to him. Jerry had a music box made in Switzerland which pIa>-5 the *'X.D. Victor^' March*.* and **Xotrc Dame, Our Mothrr." Tliis along with a hand carx'cd • wooden model of X.D.*s football mascot *'Mike** (sweater, monogram—with Irish hat atop his head, shamrock and all) was presented to Pius XH at that time. Xeedless, to say, we are all overjoyed with this hostorical event. 

Upon learning of the Rome appointment of His Eminence, aVRDIXAL STRITCH, (LL.D., *46), we cabled congratulations. Following his arrival and operation wc sent another wire to his bedside. 
Universal Notre Dame Night celebration featured another Prince of the Church as honored guest and principal speaker. His Eminence GREGORY XV­PETER AGAGL\XL\X, Patriarch of the Armenians in Cilicia. His Eminence, having visted U.S.A. twice has become a warm friend of our Archbishop JOHN F. 0*HARA, C.S.C. Cardinal Agagianian spoke on Catholic Education in the U.S.A. and on the Lourdes Centenary- Year. Honorary member­ship was confern:d upon His Eminence and in responding, he said: *"It was Indeed a great pleasure for mc to accept your invitation to attend the celebration of Universal Notre Dame Nigtll, and I assure you and the other otHcers that I consider it a privIUtje to be an Honorary member of the Notre Dan.c Club of Rome." His Eminence was introduced bv VERY REV. CHRISTOPHER OTOOLE, C.S.C., Father General of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross. FATHER EDWARD L. HESTON, C.S.C., Chaplain of the Club, presented the document of membership to the Cardinal. Among other speclallv invited guests was RT. REV. .MSGR. WILLIAM J. DOHENY, CS.C. Other speakers were Prexy, JERRY ^VSHLEY, who talked on his pilgrimage to Lourdes, and JOE DEVIXE, X-D. Graduate School. '55, who spoke on **Rome and X'olre Dame." Over 60 alumni and friends attended. Following the program a buffet was served in the Holy Cross International College auditorium to the tune of N'.D. tunes played by a Roman orchestra in X'.D.I. monogram sweaters. 
A cabled Blessing from His Holiness to FATHER PHILIP SCHAERF, CS.C , for the Confraternity of the Immaculat" Conception at Xotre Dame on the occasion of the opening of the Lourdes Cen­tenary', was arranged by the X.D. Club here. 
In response to our letter assuring President Eisenhower of the prayers of the Rome Club during his Illness early in the year, the President wrote back: "I am more than grateful to you, and to the members of the X'otrc Dame University .'MumnI Club of Rome for your thought and prayers for my recover^-. Tliank you too for your "vote of confidence." 
Wc have been in touch recently with fellow university people: Har\'ard and Columbia. On annual Har\-ard Day, March 28lh, when Har\'ard men gather m Rome, wc sent greetings to them and received a very appreciative note In response. For Columbia men wc did the following favor: Jerry Ashley's son, Paul, found a class ring on the street. When he wrote to Columbia identifying 
initials on the ring, Columbia sent profuse thanlcs and was writing several alumni with'^ said initials. TIic most "gala" affair of the year was the 
X.D.
 St. Patrick's Day Night. Holding it at our temporary N'.D. Rome rendezvous, the Scogllo D! Frislo Restaurant (where the band plays all X.D. airs), we drew up to 2(X) people and served this Gaelic-Irish menu: X*.D. Green Punch—Green Fras­cati Wine (good vegetable coloring)—Green Lasagna —Green . Salad—Green Ice Cream. Entertainment was provided by Basso JOHN O'LEARY and Tenor HUGH CARIDON. Door jrhes were two very respectable "fifths" of Irish Whiskey. TWA pnn \-idcd freshly flown-In shamrocks from the Old Sod. 

Missing the party bv hours were the following 


X.D.
 \Tsitors to Rome: Dr\N SRANNOX and JOE HEAP, now doing pushups with the U. S. Air Force at Boiling Field. Following them arrived the **Junior Ycai' Abroad" X.D.'crs and St. Marj-itcs studying in Vienna: JOHN DeWITT, JAMES SHEEHAN, AVILLIAM ECKL, all of the class of '59, and THO.\fAS BREXNAN. *60. From "across the DLxie" were Connie Belle Baird, Ellen Ann Conaghan, both '59, Martha Gene Abel and, Mary Agnes Shriner, both '60. The Club had the group to^ dinner at the Scoglio; a lively evening. Wc like­wise toured them to N.D. International School and to the Gcneralate of the Holy Cross Fathers. 


A steady stream of Alumni and people who are relatives of .Alumni have found us while in Rome: BILL KARL, Engr. '31, and wife; JOE HILGER, '32 (with daughters Mim! and Barbara, now at St. Mary's); DOUGLAS MAGER, Commerce, '53; KERWIX H. FULTON, '53; KIERAX CONLEY, O.S.B., '48, and his brother DICK, '49; JOHN L. HEIXEMAN, '57, Fullbrighting in Berlin; ED RONEY of Detroit; BOB KAHLE, '35, of Toledo; JOHN F. O'SHAUGHNESSY, wife and X.D. stu­dent sor.5 of the "Xotre Dame O'Shaughnessys; the sister of ED HICKEY of Detroit; FATHER MICHAEL DEIS, O.M.L, summer '51-52; TOM EAGEN, now at • N.D. in grad work, resident of "Vctvlllc" reported bv sisters-in-law Cfatherinc and Alice Collins; TOM COCHRAIXE, N.D. '20s, re­ported by his cousin FATHER CYRIL LAUER of Toledo. FATHER ALBERT SPRINGER of Toledo risitcd in behalf of his brothers, FRED, '30, and GEORGE, '31, who \%-as Prcx%- of Toledo Club 1932-41. GORDON PARKER, cousin ofEDWARD CANARY, N'.D. Law circa '55, of Sevmour Conn.; Brother-in-law of UlLLIAM McCLURE, '54. SI.MOX LOXERGAX, annual rctrcatant at X.D. from LaPorte, Ind., brother of FELCC A. LOXER­GAX. deceased, *I2. The brother of RICHARD ORSI, '60, ind whose cousins are: KIM HE^VSON, '54, and BILL HEWSON, '59, all of S. Orange, 
X. J. The parents of Marilyn Havilind. St. Mary's. '56, and parents-in-law of TO.M RAYES, JR., '5t, and BOB McCOY, '51. T^VA hostesses Josephine Bunch (friend of DOX SOXD.AG, '51) and Gail Gruber (friend of EXS. JOHX FLETCHER, '57). Tlic sister of L\RRY ASH (deceased), class of '55 (for whom Club will have a Mass in St. Peter's). .\fr. and Mrs. ^\TLLL\M L. HARRINGTON* of South Bend, Holy Cross Parish. In Rome ^ve have discovered FATHER PEDRO LUMBRER.\S, O.P., teaching at AngcHcum Universitv, at XJ). '22-23, and FATHER MURPHY, Carmelite, ^vho has taught and prefectcd at X.D. .Also LUIS SUM­MERS, grad of X.D. I here and still a student at X,D,U., here on study-leave. 
To all X.D. ^Vlumnl, families xnd friends: The Rome Club Is ver>* happy to welcome you and help you in Ro-ne: Write or phone. Secretary VIXCE Mc/VLOON at Notre Dame International School: 541500. 
—VINCE AfcVLOOX, Scc>-. 

(COPY) 
Dai Vatlcano, li April 28, 1958 SEGRETERIA DI ST.ATO DI SUA SANTITA 
Xo. 425379 
Very Reverend and dear Father Heston, 
Under date cf .April 1st, 1958, the President and 

Officers of the University of Xotre Dame Club of 
Rome ^*Tote to the Holy Father signifjnng their 
desire to. present to Him the Club's first annual 
"Man of the Year .Awrard," and also requesting Him 
to accept "Honorary Membership." 
His Holiness could not fall to be deeply touched by the admirable sentiments of filial devotion and attachment which prompted the desire of the President and Officers of the Club to make tliis gesture. 
In conveying to you His gracious assent to the 

acceptance of the award and the honorary mem­
bership, I an. to tell you that the Pontiff Is 
sincerely appreciative and grateful, and that He 
imparts from His heart to you and to the Presi­
dent and Officers of the Club, as also to their 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 43 
GREEN BAY—Jack Vainisi, second from left, received the Green Bay Club's 1958 Man-of­thc-Year award at a banquet meeting Universal Notre Dame Night. Also'pictured arc Joe Neufeld, left, club president; Mrs. Vainisi, and Bill Kcndn, selection committee chairman. Some 100 alumni, friends and guests attended the event. Jack is chief talent scout for the Green Bay Packers. 
families and dtar ones, His Paternal Apostolic 
Benediction. 
Gladly do I take this occasion to renew to yon the assurance of my high esteem and cordial regard, and 1 remain. 
Yours sinccrelv in Christ, 
A. DELL* AQUA 

SUBSTITUTE Tlic Ver\- Rev. Edward L. Heston, C.S.C., Procurator General, Via Aurelia Antica 19, ROMA. 
Saginaw Valley 
REV. JOHN J. CAVAXAUGH, C.S.C., addressed 120 persons .^pril 7 at a Universal Xotrc Dame Night dinner of the Saginaw Vallej* Club. Father Cavanaugli dbcussed what he called the "quest of academic excellence'* at Notre Dame. .Another principal spcakrr was Bishop Stephen S. Woznicki of the Diocese of Saginaw. VINCENT T. BOYLE of Midland, president cf the Saginaw Valley Club, was loastmaster. Guests were introduced bv HERBERT SCHNETTLER of Saginaw, JOHN MEAGHER of Bay City and ROBERT McCOY of Midland. CARL DOOZAN had charge of arrange­ments for the dinner, which was the x-allcy club's 11th annual obserx-ance of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
St. Joseph Valley 
JERRY CLr\EYS, the candy man, was chairman of a sweetly executed Golf Day June 11 at the Notre Dame Golf Course, featuring a day's golf, horseshoes, myriad prizes, refreshments and a hearty roast beef dinner in the evening. Attendance was heavy, and ever\'Oiic had a grand time. BURNIE B.AUER had cliarge of a first annual family picnic this summ;:r. 
St. Louis 
Tlie St. Louis Club's annual observ*ance of Uni­versal Xotrc Dame Xight, .April 8th, was a huge success. Some 400 graduates and friends of the university* gathered at the Khorassan Room of the Hotel Chase for the program which was high­lighted by the presentation of "The Man of the Year A\vard." 
This Year's recipient of the Man of the Year Award was DR. THO.MAS A. DOOLEY, '48, who has been winning national and international acclaim for his work in Indo China. The award was pre­sented by last Year's Man of the Year, AL R.\VARINO. 
Our guest speaker for U.N.D. Night was coach TERRY BRENNAX, who, in aditiun to his U.N.D. Night appearance was kept busy appearing with x-arious groups around Hn. Louis during his two-day \*isit. 
In other club news, new officers have been installed for the 1958-59 year. President, THOMAS McQUIRE, M9; Secretarv-Treasurer, DON R^VTCHFORD, '50; Vice President-Activities, ROBERT F. CHICKEY, '54;Vicc President-Com­mittees, DEWEY GODFREY, '55, and Vice Presi­dent—Public Relations, P.\T O'MEARA, '49. Tlic new officers will scr\-c until the next U.N.D. Night. 
New members of the Board of Directors. scr\-ing through 1961, arc ROBERT COXCANNON, M8, JAMES PHELAX, '56, PAT O'MEARA, '49, and BOB CHICKEY, '54. 
Next up the list of actiWties for the St. Louis Club was our Annual Retreat to the Falima Retreat House on the campus. This year a dozen members made the trrp the week end of May 16, 17 and 18. Tlie committee was headed up bv JOHN SULLIV.AX, '36, and DICK KARR, '40. 
Following the retreat, uc staged our annual family picnic" This year's outing was held at I\-anhoe Lodge where swimming, softball, horseshoes and other less active pastimes were the order of the day. Tlianks to the efforts of BILL EGGERS, '50, and BOB ROSEXTHAL, '47, tlie turnout was tremendous. Bill, Bob and their committee arc to be complimented on a job well done. 
—J. DOXALD RATCHFORD, '50, Sec>-. 

San Diego 
On Marcli 7, 1958 a business meeting t\-as held at the rcsidehcc of HOWARD BEILSTEIN pri­marily for the election of officers to serve for the club year 1958. The new officers so elected arc as follows: President, F. J. (RED) DAVIS; Vice President, DICK DEREXTHAL; Secretary, JOHN CAWXEY; Treasurer, AVALT GEUDTNER; Chaplain, REV. JOHX GALLAGHER, and Di­rector, UGO ROSSI. Past president HOWARD BEILSTEIN was retained as a member of the Board of Directors. 
Tlic next order of business was, of course. Uni­versal X^otrc Dame Night. This annual affair was held at the Town and Country Hotel, where ap­proximately 40 members enjoyed a delicious prime rib dinner and an exceptionally interesting and educational talk by Rt. Rev. Msgr. John Storm, President of University of San Diego, College for Men. 
Tlic planned social events for the year include a dinncr-danc-. bcacli party, picnic. Communion Sunday (evening Mass, pot-luck dinner after) and a Notre Dame Night at a Globe Tlieater production. 
Another note of information that should have sonic mention in the .ALUMNUS and in the prayers of the good fathers at Notre Dame is that a member of our club was recently killed in an airplane crash. He was JAMES E. McMAHON, who IS surx'ived by his wife and 5 small children now living at 653 B. Street. Coronado, Calif. 
—F. J. DAVIS, Pres. 

Schenectady 
Mr. and Mr;. JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25. In the East for the American Alumni Council Con­vention at Lake Placid (of which Jim was chair­man), were guests of the Schenectady Club for 
U.N.D. Night. Saturday. June 28. Installed as officers at the afTair were: L. E. ST. PIERRE. '55. President: ROBERT L. SCHAFER, '48. Vice Presi­dent: RICHxVRD HUETHER, '55. Secretarv. and ALVIN C. GROSS, '49. Treasurer. 
Scranton 
The Not(c Dams Club of Scranton celebrated Universal Xotre Dame Niclit on April 21. 1958. Principal speaker was JOHN S. GLEASOX, JR., National Commander of the .American Lecion and Notre Dame Graduate. A reception for Mr. Glea­son, co-sponsored by the American Lecinn and the Notre Dame Club nf Scranton preceded the dinner. Tlie committee on arraneemrnts included TOM HARRINGTON, TONf COMERFORD, JOE Mc-DADE, JOHN' KRAMER, BILL COMERFORD, E.\RL HOLMES. MIKE COMERFORD, DICK MARSHALL, TONY WEBBER and JIM POWERS. 
President TOM HARRINGTON appointed EARL HOLMES and TO.M CO.MERFORD as co-chair­men of the committee making plans for the :mnual summer outing held in conjunction with the Notre Dame Club of Wilkcs-Barre. 
—DICK JORDAN, Sec\-. 

South Jersey 
Xcw- officcre of the Xotrc Dame Cliib of South Jersey Ere: President. R. W. NICKOL, '37; \1cc President, PATRICK F. aVRR. and Secretarv--Trcasurcr, ROBERT E. MURPHY, '55. Officers whose terms have expired arc President E. FRAX­CIS BAILEY, '49; Vice President. WILLIAM J. DUGG.4N, '49. and Secrctars-Treasurer, R. W. NICKOL. 
Southeastern Wisconsin 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Southexstem Wsconsin met for its Universal Notre Dame Xight on April 22 at the Elk> Chib in Racine. We were fortunate in having FATHER JOYCE with us to help celebrate the occasion. At the same time new oflicers of the club were installed as follows: President, EDWIX E. RAY.MOXD, JR., of Racine; \^ce President. DOXALD COATES of Kenosha, and Secretar>-Treasurer, JOSEPH T. KUT^IN, JR., of Racine. 
Till main event of the dinner was, of course. Father Joyce's address. All who attended were verj* pleased with the afTair, which also turned out to be a financial success. 
On April 23, at a luncheon. Father Joyce ad­dressed a gathering of executives of local industries and other prominent individuals. 
—JOSEPH T. KIVLIN, JR., Secy. 

Toledo 
The Notre Dame Club of Toledo held Universal Notre Dame Night on May 22 at Sunnlngdale Country Club. A social hour from 6:30 to 7:30 

44 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-Septembefj 1958 
preceded a tnan'clous beef dinner. Music, cock­tails, dancing and a good time were on the agenda. A short talk by MARSHALL DESMOND, '54, giving' the background and meaning of Universal Notre Dame Night was vcr>* capably handled. RONALD BYERSMITH, M9, did an excellent job as chairman for this successful event. Over 100 Notre Dame alumni, their wives and guests at­tended. Ron was ably assisted by LEE ^fARA, *49, JOHN CELUSTA, '49; JACK BECKHAM. '50; MARSHALL DESMOND, '54; JLM BRITT, '52. and TOM QUINN, '57. A large contingent of Fostoria, Ohio alumni were on hand to make this Universal Noire Dame Night a tremendous success. 
This past 1957-1950 season for the Toledo Notre Dauic Chib has been one of the most prosperous and successful oi.cs ever had; and due recognition was given to the outgoing oflicers of the club: namely: BUD .MALOXE, President; GEORGE KORHU­MEL, Vice President; JACK BECKHAM, Scc%-., and JL\f BRITT, Trcas. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club was brought to Toledo May 3 and 4 at the Ursulinc Auditorium. West Toledo K. of C. sponsored this affair and RON FR/\NCIS, '57, was chairman. Proceeds went tou*ards sponsoring a college scholarship for a 
" worthy high school graduate. A June meeting was held in which the officers for the 1958-1959 season were announced. Tlie next issue of the ALUMNUS will give you the mames. A $1,000 gift was presented to tlie Uni­versity in the name of The Notre Dame Club of Toledo to be used for scholarship purposes. The Notre Dam-: Club of Toledo together with the West Toledo K. of C. sponsored a Laymcn^s Retreat on June 27. 28. and 29 at Our Lady of Fatima Retreat House on the Notre Dame campus. BILL CL.ARKE was chairman of this retreat, which \\*as beneficial to all those who attended. 
—JACK BECKHAM, '50, Sec>-. 

Tri-Cities 
The Communinn Breakfast of the Tri-Citics Notre Danic Club at Nfoline on .\pril 13 was addressed by L.\WRENCE H. BALDINGER, Dean of the ColIrgL of Science Pt the University. A fathcr-and­son affair to which students were also Invited, it was attended by approximately 75. 
New officers of the club are: ROY A. BUSH, '49, President; DR. ROBERT J. FOLEY, '46, Vice President; WILLIAM L.\FFAN, '52, Secrctary-
Treasurer, and Directors: ROBERT C. CORYN, THOMAS E. ECKLAND. WALTER DRAY, THOMAS A. E.MMA and C. F. BRACKE. 
Virginia 
On May 7, 1958 the Notre Dame Club of Vir­ginia, celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night. We experienced one of our largest gatherings. There were 34 couples consisting of alumni, associate mem­bers and guests. 
Our guest speaker was Bbhop Administrator of the Diocese of Richmond, Joseph Hodges. 
Wc celebrated with a social hour, dinner and dance. Tlie presentation of the "Man of the Year" scroll was a highlight of the affair. It was awarded to JOSEPH J. .MULDOU-NEY. 
Officers of Notre Dame Club of Virginia are: CHARLES A. La FRATTA, President; E. MILTON FARLEY, Vice President: PAUL B. NOTF, Secre­lar>-, and LEO F. BURKE, Treasurer. 
—CHARLES A. LaFR.\TTA, Pres. 

Washington, D. C. 
Washington Redskins coach JOE KUHARICH was named Notre Dame Man of the Year at the 35th annual Universal Notre Dame Night celebration of the Notre Dame Club of Washington at the Shcratou-Carlton Hotel on April 28. Joe was named for his "outstanding contributions to good sportsmanship and for his gentlemanly conduct on and off the playing field." Guest speakers were VIRGIL EXNER and REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, CS.C. President. JOHN 
A. McGRATH presided. TIGHE WOODS was chairman and WILLIAM BL.\KNEY JONES was toastmaster. v . 
BILL MIDDENDORF was chairman of the May 8 meeting, which featured the 1957 Football High­lights. 
The Club held a retreat June 13, 14 and 15 at the Trappist Monasler\-, Bcrrj-^-illc, Va. 
Western Washington 
This year's Universal Notre Dame Night Program was held in Seattle, Washington, on Thursday eve­ning, April 17, 1958, at the Benjamin Franklin Hotel. This was our most successful program w-ith 105 members and guests in attendance. Featured Speaker was The Honorable MIKE STEPOVICH, Governor of Alaska, who graduated from Notre Dame Law School in 1943. Governor Stepdvich gave a splendid talk on private education and the \*aluc of religious training in education. We were honored to present the REV. THO.MAS J. LANE, CS.C , from the University, who stirred our memory wtth his accounts of the key figures In Notre Dame history. * 
Wc were honored by the presence of church and civil leaders. Amom; them, the Right Reverend .MONSIGNOR, THEODORE .M. RYAN, Vicar General, Seattle Diocese, Reverend James Cowgilt, S.J., repretenting Seattle University, the Honorable and Mrs. John .\ Cherberg, Lieutenant Governor, State of Washington, The Honorable and Mrs. John O'Connell, Attorney General, State of Washington, and The Honorable and Mrs. David LeWnc, President of the Seattle City Council. 
The Man of the Year Award was presented bv CHARLES LaCUGNA to the REVEREND PHIL­LIP DUFFY, Superintendent of Schools, Seattle Diocese, and Club Chaplain, fur his outstanding work in the field of education ind on behalf of the Notre Dame Club. 
CHARLES OSBORNE, State Governor of the Notre Dame Foundatlun. reported on the needs and fund raising plans of the Unlvei^ity for the next decade. President BERN.ARD J. LENOUE, pre­sented a special award to Governor Mike Stepovlch. 
Wc wish to extend our thanks to the committee who worked on this Notre Dame Night, particularly FRED HOOVER, publicity chairman, DON SUL­LIVAN, telephone committee, and JOHN CAR­MODY, for his usual outstanding performance as Master of Ceremonies. 
New officers elected for the curcnl biennium are: TED CUM.MINGS, President; JOE LOTTA, Vice President; BURT H.ALL, Secretary-, and DON SUL­LIV/\N, Treasurer. New directors are: EMMET LENIHAN, PHIL HOSTERMAN, D.AN CONLEY, TED GAFFNEY, and ED BROWN. Other mem­bers of the board are BEN LENOUE, Past Presi­dent, and CHARLES OSBORNE, State Governor. 
Some 22 members of the Gonzaga .Alumni Asso­ciation joined with us in honoring Governor Mike Stcpovich. Mike having received his .\rts and Letters Degree at Gonzaga University. 
—THEODORE P. CUMMINGS, Pres. 

LEHIGH VALLEY^Chairnian Bill Martin greets 200 alumni and friends of Notre Dame at the Lehigh Valley Cluh's U.N.D. Night 
celebration. Others at the head table include: (I. to r.) Tom Lcnnon, new club president; Lou Wynne, club secretary; Father O^Donncll, Immaculate Heart of Mary Seminary, Northhampton, Pa.; Father Stephen Daday, principal of Al!cntow.-n Central Catholic High School; Father Hugh F. McMulIan, club chaplain; Father Thomas O'Donnell, CS.C; Dr. Louis T. Gabriel, Jr., club president; John McCaulcy; Leo R. Mclntyrc, Chainnan of the Foundation for Eastern Pennsylvania, and James Walsh, club vice-president. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 45 
CHARLES P. O'NEILL, '41, died .April 7, 1957 according to word recently received in the .A.lumni Office. His widow surx-ivcs. 
LT. ARTHUR D. RHODES, '41. was killed in action in the Battle of Cassino (Italy) about 1943, 
according to information just received in the 
CUSSES > 
Engagements 

Miss Carolvn Joan Roth and 2/Lt. JOHN P. MADIGAN, '56. Miss Margaret J. O'.Veill and CORXELIUS F. ifcaARTi', JR., '36. Miss Gertrude D. Watt and Pfc. PAUL W. REILLY, '36. Miss Joann Elaine DeSimonc and CH.\RLES L. CUSU.\UXO, JR., '57. Miss Carol Mae Toth and JOEL R. LIVLVGS­TOX, JR., '37. Miss Barbara .Ann Jaroszewski and ROBERT L. JONES, '38. Miss Gertrude Elizabeth Griffin and FR.ANCIS X. KEX.W, '58. Miss Gactana Diccrto and JAMES N. LENOX, '58. Miss Man.- Lou Beyer and D.WID A. PAIRITZ, '58. 
Marriages 

Mrs. LucilL- Thomas .-ind BERNARD J. VOLL, '17. Notre Dam:-, Indiana. May 3. .Miss KalhriTi Lynskey and DR. \\TLLL\M J. CONROY, '31, North .Arlington. N. J., Mav 17. 
Miss Majoric J. Sinck and FREDERICK M. BRANSFIELD, '52, Miami Beacli, Florida, May 10. Miss Marcurette I. Dickcrion and C.\RL F. 
EIBERGER,~'52, June 14. Miss Carolyn M. Lamcnski and GEORGE J. AR.AXOWSKI, '33, South Bend, Ind., June 7. 
Miss Maureen Egan O'Brien and Ll, J.G. DON.ALD P. GREIWE, '53, Tarrvtoivn, .N. Y., April 12. 
Miss Marie Georgia Ladio and MILTON J. BEAUDINE, '54, Decatur, 111.. June 14. Miss Janel Mar>- -Miller, and THO.M.AS J. WATERS, M.D., '54, Auburn, N. Y., May 3. 
Miss Barbara .Ann Brien and J. ROBERT HIL­GER, JR., '56, Listowcl, County Kerr>-, Ireland, June 14. 
.Mfas Eileen K. Charles and JOHN H. OWEN, '56. Garden Citv. L.I.. .April 12. Miss Katharine M. Bird and ARNLAND RIGAUX, '56, Notre Dame, Indiana, May 3. Miss Barbara Joanne Renkes and THOMAS GALLA, '37, Detroit. Mich., June 14. Miss Mary -Ann Hamilton and CHARLES L. GRACE, '37. Notre Dame, Ind., May 3. Miss Lourdene L. Becker and ENS. THOMAS 
W. HALEY, '57, Notre Dame. Ind., June 7. Miss Zoe C. Stifler and DAVID F. HAYS, '37, Van Nuvs, Calif., Mav 27. Miss Teresa P. Gallas and DAVID McGINNIS, '37, South Bend. Ind., May 31. -Miss Alice R. Malia and ALFRED F. CIRILLO, '38. South Bend, Ind., May 31. Mbs Janice Lee Mohler and JOSEPH C. JEZIORSKI, '38, South Bend, Ind.. June 7. 
Miss Beverly J. Fowler and JAMES P. ZILLES, '53, Green Bay, Wis., June 7. 
Births 

Mr. and Mrs. JERO.ME CROWLEY, '31, a daughter, April 18. -Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM HERRICK, '39, a son. May 19. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM F. McINERNY, '40, a son, Daniel Patrick, .April 24. Dr. and Mrs. GEORGE A. CARBERRY, '43, a daughter, Susan Marie, Mav 13. Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL KIELY, '44, a son, Christopher Peter, April 28. Dr. and Mrs. PAUL J. LIBASSI, '47 a daughter, June 1. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN DUC.ATO, '48, a son, Michael John, March 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT ROLWING, '48, a daughter, June 2. (grandfather E. M. Rohving, '23) Mr. and Mrs. FRED A. TANSEY, '48, a 
daughter, Mav 11. Mr. and Mrs. PETER J. KERXAN, JR., '49, a daughter, Genciicvc .Ann. April 19. Mr. and Mrs. GERALD S. MURPHY, '49, a son, Frank Joseph, April 20. 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 
Mr. and .Mrs. HUGH E. MULLIGAN, '50, a 
son. Huch Emmett HI, June 2. 
Dr. and Mrs. J.AMES W.ACK, '50, a son. May 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. VINCENT GODDARD, '51, a son, 
June 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES F.ALKENBERG, '32, 
a daughter. Grace Ann. May 27. 
Mr. and -Mrs. GEARY T. BECKER, '53, a 
daughter, Mary Isabel, June 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. C. GEORGE SCHILLING, JR., 
'53. a son, Thomas Michael, June 16. 
Mr. aad Mrs. THOiLAS J. CAMPBELL, '54, a 
daughter, Kathleen Marv. Mav 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL E. FORSMAX, JR., '54, a 
son. Paul Edward III. May 18. 
Lt. and Mri. .MICHAEL J. MAHOXEY, '34, a 
daughter, Kathleen Keil, Mav 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOM.AS J. SHEA, '.54, a son, 
Thomas J., January- 16. 
Deaths 

GEORGE CRILLY, '95, of Chicago, Illinois, died recently according to tnformanon received in tlie Alumni Oflice. 
JAMES H. BACH, '07, of San Diego, California, died May 24 according to information received in the Alumni OfHcc. 
M. A. CREMER, '19, of San Francisco, died June 4, according to word just received in the Alumni Oflice. His widow sur\'ivcs. 
DR. JOSEPH PAVLINAC, '21, died April 18 in Chicago. He was interred in Pituburgh. He was medical director of the Croatlon Fraternal Union of which his father was the founder. Among the surxivors arc his widow, his mother and a sister. 
REV. JOHN E. DUFFY, '23, died June 4 in San Francisco. He was a sunivor of the Bataan "Death March" and former Xational Chaplain of the American Legion. He received the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star, the Purple Heart with live oak leaf clusters, the Philippine Defense Medal and the Na\y Department's commendation ribbon, 'He recently senTd as pastor of Our Lady of Lourdcs Roman Catholic Churcli in New London, Ohio. Among survivors arc his parents and a 
sister* 
HARRY B. "Bud" STILLMAN, '24, died May 7 in Birmingham, Michigan, according to word received in tlic Alumni Office. His wido^*' sur\"ives. 
ifAURICE COUGHLIN, *26. of Eric, Penns>l­\*ania, died suddenly July 7. according to informa­tion just received in the Alumni Office. Services were held at St. Ann's Church, Eric, July 10. His widow surxivcs. 
THOMAS ^^\ SHERIDAN, '26, Bcrgcnfield, Xe\%- Jersey, died June 20 in Holy Name Hospital, Teancck, N. J. Riles at St. John's Church and St. Joseph Cemetery, Hackcnsack, were attended by the mayoi, borough council, police rescr\'cs and \-olunlccr fire department whose training he had diritried in first aid. 
He was a director of the Valley Savings S: Loan 
.•Vssn. of Bcrgcnfield. He is sur\'ivcd by his widow, 
two sons, father and four sisters. 
CARROLL J. WILSON, '31, died May 13 in Buclianan, Miclu'gan, according to word received in the Alumni Office. Surxivors include three sons and a daughter. 
JOSEPH MEITZLER, JR., '31, died April 4 (Good Friday) in Springfield, Illinois. He w-as buried from St. Patrick's Church in Springhill Cemetery, Danville, III,, with Notre Dame men as pallbcarc-rs. .\ marine veteran of Iwo Jima, he was an c\"aIuator for the Illinois highway department. Surx-iving arc his widow, liis mother, two sons and a grandson. 
P. S. PETERSON, '31, died April 29, according to word received in the Alumni Office. His daughter surx'ivcs. 
EDWARDJ. NEBEL, '31, died suddenly Decem­ber 14, 1957 according to word recently received in the Alumni Office. Among survii'ors are his widow and three sons attending Notre Dame. 
LA^VRENCE E. BURKE, '32, died suddenly March 16 in Sterling, Illinois. He is sur\*ivcd by his widow and six children. 
1958 
Alumni Office. His mother and a brother arc 
among the surxiVors. 
LT. JOHN J. FAHLE, '55, u-as killed in an auto accident July 3 according to information received in the xMumni Office. His parents survive. 
LT. PAUL J. MARBACH, '55. «as killed in a plane crash. May 27 according to information re­ceived in the Alumni Office. His parents sur\ivc. 
BROTHER ALBAN FAHERTY, CS.C , died December 15, 1957 according to word recently re­ceived in the Alumni Office. He was former treasurer and purchasing agent for the University of Notre Dame. 
BROTHER NORBERT BAUER, CS.C , died July 6 at age 87 in St. Joseph Hospital, South Bend, after 74 years in the congregation. Born in Paris, he served three years in the French army after his final vows. For 20 years he taught in U. S. Holy Cross schools before being sent to Rome, «here be serx'cd until retirement to Notre ' Dame in 1947. He witnessed beatification of his brother, Blessed Andrew Joseph Bauer, O.F.^L, martyred in the Chinese Boxer Rebellion in 1900. He is sur\'ived by nirccs and nephews in France. 
Sympathy 

ALBERT A., '20. JOHN, '24, BERNARD, '28 and JOSEPH UEBBING, '28, on the death of their mother, .April 3. 
NEIL McCARTY, '42, on the death of his son. May 13. J.AMES J. &\REY, '50, on the death of his father, April 23. 
1904 
REUNION REGISTR<\NT HARRY HOGAN. 

1905 
REUNION REGISTR<\.VTS 

W. D. .'AMIESON, and D.AN O'CONTCOR 
1906 
REUNION REGISTR.ANT JOHN F. SHE,\. 

1908 
REUNION REGISTRAN*TS DOMINIC CALLICR,\TE, WILLIAM A. DAUNT, and VARNUM A. PARISH. 
MAXIMILIAN J. (.MAX) ST. GEORGE wrote regarding the Golden Jubilee reunion of his class: "I will not be able to attend because I am suffering from Parkinsonism. .. . I can walk only with dif­ficulty," He maintains his law offices in Chicago and would surely appreciate the prayers and wishes of his classmates, friends and fellow alumni. 
Max's address is 130 North Wells. 
GUSTAVO L. TREVINO had hoped to come up from Mexico City for the week end but was detained on a business trip to Cuba. 
BILL D.\UNT had a head start on the "Golden Boys" when the New York Club gave him a surprise testimonial earlier this year. 
1909 
REUNION REGISTR;\NT 
A. T. MERTES. 

1910 
REUNION REGISTR:\NT 
C. A. SORG. 
Freii L. Steers 

1911 
105 S. LaSalle St. Chicago 3, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTRANT FRED L. STEERS. 
B. J. "Ben" Kaiser 

1912 
321 Bellaire Ave. Pittsburgh 26, Pa. 

1913 Paul ^- ^y"«« 
"' ' 360 Warner Ave. Syracuse 5, N. Y. 

REUNION REGISTRANTS FRANK BRESLIN, CLYDE E. BROUSSARD, C. BYRON HAVES, JESSE J. HERR, JAMES F. O'BRIEN, JAMES W. O'HARA, and EDWARD 
A. ROACH. 
From the Alumni Oflice: 

A big topic talk at the Friday Class Dinner of the 190&-13 Reunion contingent was the part played by many registrants in the growth and development of the Notre Dame Clubs—DR. BRESLIN in Los Angeles, JI.M O'HARA in Cleve­land and JIM O'BRIEN in Detroit, to name only a few. 
CLYDE BROUSSARD still seems to hold a reunion record with 26 grandchildren, but his title is being hotly contested. 
Congratulations to PAUL BYRNE on 36 years of sterling ser\'ice to his University before retirement (sec pictures iu this and previous issues.) 
191 4 Ron O'Neill 
' 1350 N. Black Oak Dr. South Bend 17, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 
W. P. DOUTS'ING, and FRED WILLIAMS. 

"CY" WILLIAMS added much to reunion nostalgia as a man who knew the Big Leagues when Casey Stengel was a pup. 
1 01 C James E. Sanford 1429 W. Farragut Ave. Chicago 40, III. 
191A Grover F. Miller 612 Wisconsin Ave. Racine, Wisconsin 
REUNION REGISTRANT WILLIAM E. BR.\DBURY. 

1917 Edward J. McOsker 2203 Briarwood Road Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio 
REUNION REGISTRrVNTS BILL GRADY, AL KR,VNZ, and JAMES T. McMAHOX. 
DR. LEO O'DO.V.VELL, general surgeon of Mercv' Hospital in Pittsburgh, Pa., addressed 560 Sraduating seniors at Duquesnc University on June I. 
19 1 Q George E. Harbcrt ' ** Rm. 500, Rock Island Bank Bldg. Rock Island, Illinois 
REUNION PICTURES 

Anyone who desires a picture of returning members of the Class of 1918 taken at the 1938 Class Reunions may obtain one by writing to REUNION PICTURES, BOX 81, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, enclosing a dollar with his name, address and class year. 
REUNIO.V REGISTR,iN-TS WILLIAM J. ANDRES, CHARLES W. CAU., LEO L. COOK, EDWARD J. DUNDON, GEORGE 
E. HARBERT, WILLLVM H. KELLEY, TOM KING, JOHN LEM.MER, JOHN L. REUSS, JOHN VOELKERS, G. B. WAAGE, RAY WHIPPLE, REV. CHARLES J. WILLIAMS, CS.C. 
Our Fortieth reunion is historv*. As at all re­unions there were many faces missing but those who attended wasted no time in getting going in a good old-time bull session. 
FATHER WILLIAMS, now the Pastor at Ran­toul. 111., said Mass for our deceased members at 
8:00 a.ni. on Saturtlay. Several hardy golfers turned up Friday afternoon for a round of golf, but the scores reflected the toll of the last 40 years, 
Friday night the gang gathered at Morris Inn, and headed by Class President, VINCE GIBLIN (Judge Giblin in his home town) settled all of the problems of the world. 
JOHN LEMMER and CHARLES CALL were 
NEW YORK—Club President Stephen (Bud) Mulvey (right) presents 4-yeaT scholaiship awards to Gerard Nichols, top graduate of St. Francis Prep, Brooklyn, and Dennis Stionjy, senior class president at Blessed Sacrament^ Yonkers, N. Y. 
in charge of the reunion and FATHER HOLDE­RITH, C.S.C., as usual rendered yeoman service in making campus arrangements. PETE RON­CHETTI and his concertina were conspicuous by their absence. On the way up to South Bend from Corpus Christi, Texas, Pete and his wife were involved in a serious traffic accident June 3 about six miles south of Centralia, Illinois. Pete was not seriously injured and was released from the hospital after preliminary examinations. Mrs. Ronchetti was not so fortunate and sustained a fractured ankle along with a multitude of scratches and bruises. She was discharged June 9. They departed for home in a new car June 13. 
1919 Theodore C. Radeniaker Peru Foundry Co. Peru, Indiana 
1920 J3"^<^ H- B-yan 107 Magee Ave. Rochester 10, N. Y. 
From the Alumni Office: The Honorable JOSEPH P. O'HARA of the 
U. S. House of Representatives was named by President as an honorary delegate and congressional ad\TSor to the Tenth Anniversary Commemorative Session of the World Health Organization (WHO) which opened May 26 in Minneapolis, Minn. Wel­fare Secretary Marion B. Folsom headed the de­legation. 
1921 Dan W.Duffy "*• ' 1101 N.B.C. Bldg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 
1922 Gerald A. Ashe " '^ ^ 39 Cambridge St. Rochester 7, N. Y. 
REUNION REGISTRA.NTS GEORGE KERVER, and WALTER SHILTS. 
Our svmpatliv is extended to our good and loval classmate, Tlie HONORABLE ALFONSO A. SCOTT, over the death of his beloved father, JOSEPH SCOTT, K. S. G., who died March 24 at the .:gc of 90 in his home city of Los Angeles. For many years, Mr. Scott was one of the most outstanding Catholic laymen in the U. S. indeed. 
His Eminence James Francis Cardinal ^fcIntyre paid him this tribute: 
A gentleman of God, a noble citizen, a soldier of truth and justice. 

Mr. Scott was a prominent lawyer, a fine orator, and received the Laetarc Medal in I9I8. Many of us remember GEORGE SCOTT, the younger brother of Al, in our undergraduate days in Bailin Hall. George Scott is now Monsignor George, and he was celebrant of the funeral Mass in the Los Angeles St. Vibiana's Cathedral. To all members of the Joseph Strott family we offer our tender sympathy. Our classmate. Judge AI, has asked especially that all his '22 buddies please remember his Dad in their prayers. 
Last January 9 was the 20th anniversary of CHARLES (CHUCK) FOLEY'S death. 
In late March, FATHER GEORGE B. FISCHER, CS.C , was in the Charleston, South Carolina area, giving a Mission, at an Air Force base. 
Mrs. JEROME F. DKON was hospitalized in Evanston. Illinois around mid-April and we are 
ROCHESTER—Vic De Simon (center) re­ceives the Rochester OuVs Man-of-the-Year award from 1937 winner Tom O'Connor, as visitor Ed "Moose" Krause looks tm. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-SeptembsT, 1958 47 
SCRANTON—^Thcsc men, members of the committee on arrangements, were responsible for the success of the Scranton Ciub's U.N.D. Night. John S. Glcason, national commander of the American Legion (seated, center) was principal speaker. 
pleased lo report &lic was recovering nicely on 
receipt of latest report received from Jerome. 
DAK YOUNG is still up on the Minnesota Iron 
Range at Aurora and Hoyt Lakes. Occasionally, 
some of liis classmates drift in to see Inm, and at 
times he sees others on his visits to the Twin 
Cities. 
In mid-May, your sccretar\- and FATHER JOE 
RICK, C.S.C., Iiad a dinner meeting in Houston, 
Texas to which city the good padre had come to 
officiate at the Nuptial Mass of a relative. Directly 
after the wedding. Father Joe returned to Box-'s 
Ranch. Bedford, Texxs, where he is presently 
stationed. 
Recent address changes from the Alumni Office 
show FRANK \\\ CONNELLY at V. O. Box 3664, 
San Francisco 20, California: DR. JOHN G. 
MOHART as .-Vssistant Director. Surgical Ser\icc, 
Central Office. Veterans Administration, Washlm:­
ton, D. C , and EG.\N C. VON MERVELDT 
located at 155 Tolman, Westbrook, Maine. 
—G. "KID" ASHE 

1 92 3 Lo"is V. Bniggner I 7AW 2165 Riverside Dr. South Bend, Indiana 
REUNION PICTURES 

Anyone who desires a picture of retuniing 
members of the Class of 1923 taken at the 1958 
Class Reunions mav obtain one bv writing to 
REUNION PICTURES. BOX 81, NOTRE 
DAME, INDI\NA, enclosing a dollar with his 
name, address and class year. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS CORNELIUS A. ALT. REV. J. M. BRANNIGAN, C.S.C., FRANCIS BREEN, MARTIN BRENNAN, VINCE BROU*N, LOUIS BRUGGNER, JOHN G. BYRNE, NELSON J. CLLAHAN, GLEN M. a\R ­BERRY, PAUL CASTNER, JOHN P. CHAPLA, JOHN C. COCHRANE, E. J. COLLINS, DICK CORDRAY. FORREST G. COTTON, MAURIE DACY. LOUIS DcSMET, JOSEPH L. DESMOND, ART blEDRICH, JOE DONALDSON, CARL K. FISCHER, JAMES E. FITZGERALD, WILLIAM 
T. FITZGERALD, HARRY FLANNERY. WIL­LIAM FUREY, FRANK GALVIN, \VILLL\M C. GA^^NOR, JOHN W. GLEASON, C. J. HART­MAN, J. P. HENNEBERRY, EUGENE HINES, DUKE HODLER, BRUCE HOLMBERG, HY HUNT, THOMAS J. KEATING, J. F. KEN­NEDY, WALTER J. KE.\NEDY, ROGER KILEY, ED KREI.MER, HENRY J. LAUER.MAN, TOM LEE, F. LESLIE LOGAN, DAN LYNCH, JAMES 
R. MARTIN, \VALTER McINTYRE, J. REY­NOLDS MEDART, LYLE E. MILLER, DR. CHARLES T. MORAN, DICK NASH, CYRIL W. 
NEFF, F. H NEITZEL, JOHN NIEMIEC, DAN NOL.\N, JACK NORTON, JOSEPH NYIKOS, GEORGE J. O'GRADY, GEORGE PATTERSON, FR^VNK W. PEDROTTY, CORNIE PFEIFFER, ROBERT G. QUINN, ED RAUB, WALTER F. R.VUBER- WALTER RAUH, REV, JOHN J. REDDINGTON, LEO RIEDER, JOHN ROHR­BACH, MERLIN ROLWING, RED SHE.V, FREDERICK STEELE, JOHN STEPHAN, LAWR­ENCE STR/VBLE, EMERY TOTH, ED C. TSCHUDI, FRANK T\'LER, G. A. UHLMEYER, HERBERT P. VALKER, BILL VOSS, GEORGE 
J. WACK, FR^VNK WALL^VCE, CLIFFORD B. WARD, C. A. WYNNE, and JAMES F. YOUNG. 
This secretarial sanctum is wearily surrendering to other secretaries not engaged in five-year re­unions this year, the expanse of pages of Class Notes in this issue of THE ALUMNUS. At press time wc are up to ou." ears in preparations for the June reunion, as many as 80 to 90 men having indicated tlielr expectation of returning. 
A few scattered items of news, however, can be tossed, Into t>pc between the labor of reunion doings: 
Several weeks back I received a long letter and a picture from JUAN P. SCARON, Francisco Gomez 935, Montevideo. Uruguay. The picture shows Juan at his desk with at least two telephones and some highly technical looking electrical ap­paratus. He is cliief engineer of the UTE (State Power Plants and Telephones) a governmental monopoly knec-decp in multlkllowatts, high tension labs and photographically-registered telephone calls. Juan has eight children and 4^3 grandchildren. Other excerpts: "FERNANDO dc RO.MANA, *24 wrote some time ago inquiring about MARIANO DONATO, '23, who is on your list of missing classmates. . . . Suggested contacting COLONEL ZOBEL in the Philippines. The Colonel is an old 
N. D. student. .. . I had some hopes of meeting the old gang at N. D. in June this year, but with our peso taking a deep dive these days . . . unless a miracle happens . . . you'll have to extend my best wishes to anyone who remembers Yours Truly." Tlic letter and picture predated Vice-President Richard Nixon's S^utli American vhh by several weeks. It will be interesting to hear again from Juan, with sonie sidelights on the Urugua>-an angle of the diplomatic* jaunt. 
GEORGE UHLMEYER is back in Rock Island after an unsuccessful venture into farm equipment manufacture In Ohio. Tlie Cockshutt Company^ a Canadian corporation, closed Its American opera­tions. George's son, Dick, is a student at N. D. 
^'Tlic war Injuries have caught up with, me," wrote FATHER JOHN E. DUFFY, Col. U. S. A. Ret'd. "Retiring to Carmel Valley, California. . . . Three months hospitalization . . . rated per­manently disabled. . . . Sorr\* I'll miss the reunion." Father Dufiy was in our prayers at the Saturday 
Memorial Mass; he passed away June 4, two days 
prior to the reunion. 
Jane DoIInger Krippene, writing under her 
maiden name, ha? brought forth a novel "Veronica,** 
labeled a "dramatic, fast-paced stor\' of the bull 
ring.'* Jane in a short note said "my husband 
KEN KRIPPENE and I have just relumed from 
the Galapagos Islands, ofT.Ecuador and very shortly 
plan to leave for Africa . . . cross the Sahara by 
camel cara\'an . . . and then to Saudi Arabia 
where I will spend some time in a harem!*' 
From the Alumni Office: 
FRANK (KID GALAHAD) WALL.\CE wrote JIM ARMSTRONG that he mentioned his former presidcnc>' of the Alumni Association prominently in his bid for Congress from the 18th District of Ohio. 
(Ed, Note: The following is from the column 
"Good Evening" by CLIFF WARD in the Fort 
Wayne News-Sentinel. It appeared in the week 
following the reunion and seems a good companion 
piece to the "Preview" bv FR.\NK WALL;\CE in 
the last ALUMNUS.—J. L.) 
Last Saturday we attended the 35th anniversarv' 
reunion of the University of Notre Dame's grad­
uation class of 1923. Tliirty-four per cent re­
turned. Thirty-three per cent arc deceased. The 
remaining per cent did not show for the usual 
number of reasons, health, distance and engagement 
conflicts. 
Ten years ago we believed that there is some­
thing morbidly depressing about reunions after a 
certain number of years! Too many old friends 
arc unable to show. Now we have changed our 
mind, probably because of a personal adjustment 
to the immutable laws which operate In the area 
of human mortality. Sooner or later you concoct 
a philosophy of acceptance to some rather basic 
facts of existence. 
The odd thing, of course, is 'low old some of those classmates arc now, but how polite they are in not mentioning the fact that ever>*one's adding the signs of wear end tear. .Another odd thing is that people change vcr>' little basically as far as their personalities are concerned. The classmates we knew 35 years ago as efferwscent characters arc still efTervcsLent. The shy, rcser\"ed ones are still shy, rescrveJ ones. And to the surprise of possibly some, there was no conversation about succe^ses or failures in the inter\'cning years. If any of the lads h.id hit the financial jackpot in the Inter­vening years, no one knew about it except by indirect gossip with which they had nothing to do. 
It might have been exactly the same bunch of lads who were starting out 35 years ago to wrestle with a rather tough world to establish themselves as breadwinners, fathers and grandfathers. We like to believe that it Is a masculine trait at least not to do much bragging about success, or It may be that after men arrive at a later date in life, success has many definitions and that one is as good as another. 
In 35 years a lot of things have happened to the world and the people >n It. but especially have a lot of things happened to the business of edu­cation. The brightest student in science 35 years ago would seem like a ver>' stupid character to today's graduate scientist. The best chemist 35 years ago would today seem like a child in any modern chemistr>' laborator\\ The only place in which no significant advances have been made has been In the field of the humanities. It is even possible th-.t today graduate in the humanities may know less about them than did his father or grandfatlter. 
One of the classmates who wasn't around be­cause he died only a dav or so before, was a JOHN FItVNCIS DUFFY, a fun loving Irish lad. who In the 35 intcrxenlng years, had seen a lot of the rough stuff of which life can fomctimes be compounded. He was a lad who after graduation decided he wanted to become a priest and did so. later to become the famous F.VTHER DUFF\*, hero of the Bataan death march. 
It u'as bccai sc of injuries inflicted upon him while he was a prisoner of the Japanese that his death occurred Ixst we^'k, I remember him telling me on a visit here as national chaplain of the American Legion that the lucky ones in the fight­ing with the Japs were the ones who took a bullet in the head, rather than those who were captured. He also told me that for some reason those over 40 years of age sur\'ived the rigors of Japanese prison camp^ and deatli marches better than their younger fellow soldiers. He thought that somehow the older generations were a bit better inured to struggling. He may have been right. Anyway his struggling is over. 
What will the next 35 years bring for the mem­bers of this year's graduation class? It may be just as well that they don't knov/? 
48 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September^ 1958 
192 4 J^uncs R. Meehan 329 S. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend, Indiana 

REUNION REGISTR/VNTS THOMAS E. COOKE, JAMES R. MEEH.VN, CLIFF NOONAN, and JIM SWIFT. 
1 92 5 J°**" ^- Hurley 
2085 Brookdalc Road Toledo 6, Ohio 
* REUNION REGISTR-ANT 
C. P. HAFEL. 

In 1957 your Class of 1925 contributed over $10,000 to tlie Foundation from 143 members. There arc no\v about 300 members in our Class. Your class oflicers felt that some of tlic boys wlio missed Insc year miglit make a contribution and some of tliose who did contribute might add a feu- more dollars so we could raise an extra §3,000 and name a room in the new Seminary for the Class of 1925 in memory of Father Ray Norris. C.S.C., who was in our class. You all received a letter from your treasurer HANK WTJRZER. 
All gifts would, of course, be credited in the regular alumni fund and foundation reports and the»c would be no need of duplication of gifts. Let's make a liltio greater sacrifice in 1958 in memory of a classmate, FATHER RAY NORRIS, who siifTered for JO long and finally was called to his reward. 
Now to the last batch of information from the questionnaires you filled out many a moon ago. 
A. C. (AL) MUELLER is president of the A. C. Mueller Co., Inc. They are manufacturer's agents of chcTiicals. .M's family consists of Mrs. Robert Cummings (Sue), 2G; Alice. 24; Katherine, 20: Margaret Mar>-, 18. and EHzabetli, U. Al would like to hear from ED. LYONS. It was great hear­ing from you, Al, and I am sure you are mighty 
. proud of your five queens. PETER R. KEXEFICK of 223 State St., Mankato. Minnesota, is president of the National Citizens Bank of Mankato. He has a son, John E., 26, who graduated from N. D. in 1954. BARNEY MacNAB of Campbell & MacNab, 1200 Failing Bldg.. Portland 4. Oregon, is an in­surance broker. He has two children. Christina, 15. and Tliomx-i. 13. At the time Barney wrote, his daughter Christina had her leg in a cast from a football injury. "A good tackle she made too,*' savs Barney. 
ANDREW WARD McMULLEN is branch man­ager of the National Cash Register Co. at 777 Mission St.. San Francisco 3, Calif. Andy's family consists of his wife; Dick, 24; Phyllis, 20; Don, 18; Jack, 15. and Mike, 12. He sees and hears from JOE SHELLEY, Chicago, and JOE McCARTHY of Oakland, Cat., right along. He would like to bear from TEX LE^VRY of Tctas. Andy has been with N. C. R. since 1929 in Ohio, Wisconsin, Minnesota. Illmois and, since 1950 in San Francisco. He says they have an excellent Notre Dame Club there. "Father Hesburgh has visited us twice and Jim Armstro'ig and family have paid us visits." He is past president of the San Francisco Sales Executives /Vssociation, which is a 48-ycar-oId or­ganization of over 40C in that vicinity. GEORGE 
SHEEHE dropped a line "Know the time it takes as class secretary. You have performed well, long and faitiifully. I extend, as one member, my thanks. Sorr>* I have been missing the cocktail parties after the games. Give my ver>' best to the Class." Thanks George, I hop? you can make the Army-

N.D.
 cocktail party for the Class after the game on October 11. L.\WRENCE PATRICK FRIEL is the senior right-of-way agent of the California Dix'ision of Highways. His family consists of his wife, Eileen; son, Richard, 32, and daughter, Gloria. 30. He has three grandchildren. He would lik= t:> hear from ExVRL McCr\RRON who he thinks resides in Juneau, Alaska. ROBERT A. DIXON, 4246 S. 35th St., /Vrlington, Va. Bob is an attorney with the Federal Deposit Ins. Corp. in Washington, D. C. He has two sons, Michael, 17, and Joseph. 10. "I had a coronary' two years ago which, together uitli my age, has slowed me down a bit. I am in the legal division of F.D.LC. with offices in the National Press BIdg. AL LODA is also witn the corporation and I see him everv dav. Regards to all the '25CTS." BEN KESTING, 3102 Heather Downs Blvd., Toledo 14, Ohio, is an engineer for the Comtc Construction Co. His two boys, Joe, 32, M6, and Jim, 30, '49. both went to 

N.
 D. He sees PAUL HARTMAN yearly. He would like to hear from ART BERGERON and "SHORTY" Lt\NG. **I'm a grandpa three times. 



J. WILLIAM McGOWAN, '25 
A tireless worker in the field of human relations and the problems of youth received some of the acclaim due to him this year when J. William McGowan was named a Notre Dame Man of the Year by the Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh, Pennsyl\-ania. 
Back in 1926, soon after he had received his bachelor and master's degrees at Notre Dame, Bill McGowan organized the Cath­olic Youth Association—"to be concerned with problems of Catholic youth brought to the attention of the courts, police and com­munity agencies; and with the organization and direction of recreation and counseling activities for youth in Metropolitan Pitts­burgh." 
Bill attended Duquesne University Law School from 1927 to 1930, then Joined the Duquesne faculty in the sociology depart­ment. Now in his 28th year at Duquesne, he is ser\-!ng as a professor of sociology. 
In 1932, at the request of Pittsburgh 
social workers, he was appointed magistrate 
of the Morals Court and ser\'ed until 1935, 
when he was appointed director of the Na­
tional Youth Administration of AVestem 
Pennsyl\-ania and directed the education-
recreation program of the AVorks Progress 
Administration for Allegheny County. Then 
in 1938 he organized the Stephen Foster 
Community Center in Lawrenceville as 
headquarters for the Catholic Youth -As­sociation. 
In 1954 he was appointed to the Penn­syl\-ania Governor's Committee on Children and Youth, made up of educators, judges and social workers. 
Bill was born in Halifax, Nova Scotia. In 1928 he married Margaret Eleanor Campion of .Amherst, Massachusetts. They have three boys, J. William, Jr., Joseph Campion and Kyran John. Bill is an ardent golfer, loves music, reading, social work and "my boys," presumably meaning not only his sons but all the youth of the Pittsburgh 
area. 
all girls. The oldest is in the third grade. Who said tempus is not fugiling?" Well, Ben, I see tliose grandchildren in church every Sunday and ihey arc plenty sweet. RICftVRD APP, 4006 Buell Drive, Fort Wayne. Indiana, is manager of the Fort Wayne Indiana Employment Security Division. He has one son Richard. 25 years old. LEO J. BOETTINGER of 1103 Salina St., Waterloiv-n, Xew York. Leo is a professional engineer. K<s has a wife, Clara, and children, Ruth C . 22; John J., 21; William, 19, and Jane, 14. Leo would like to hear from JOSE FIGUERADO. JEROME A. BENNING, 1070 Northwestern Bank Bldg., Minne­apolis, Minn., is a public accountant. He didn't give me much news but he would like to hear from TONY GONZALEZ. Jerr%-, Tony's address is 
P.O.
 Bo-t 128. Manila, Philippines. CARL B. SPRENGER, 15712 Wisconsin Ave.. Detroit 38, Mich., is an -ngineer. He has a daughter Mar­garet (now Mrs. William) and a son Robert at­tending St. Petersburg Junior College. Carl writes, "Speaking of wives, the enclosed tells the story. We purchased this motel (picture enclosed) about four years ago while it was under construction. Plan that winter vacation in the Sunshine City . . . St. Petersburg." Swell. Carl .. . do fellow class­mates get special ratDs? JULIUS J. Di\NCH, llfU Pierce St., Gary. Ind.. is in real estate and insurance. His family: Mrs. Gertrude (Danch) Eckhardt (two grandchildren; Mrs. Barbara (Danch) Lark; Mrs. Leona (Danch) McXcmar; Evelyn Francis, 15. and Geraldine, 13. I am sure you are happy with those six, Julius. RICHARD 

H.
 ZELLER, 1990 Green St., San Francisco, is a trade association executive. He and his wife Patricia went out to San Francisco a couple of years ago. He is with the California Trucking Association, 417 Market St., representing 1500 companies in California, labor, research, govern­mental, etc PAUL L. KOHOUT, 1901 Mountain Vie\v, Boise, Idaho, is manager of Group Depart­ment. Continental Life & Accident Co. His family: Mrs. R. L. Gray, 31; ^frs. C. R. Records. 28; Michael, 21, at N. D., and twelve grandchildren, eleven of them bo>-s. That's quite a football squad, Paul. .MICHAEL J. ADRIAN is a sales engineering manager for Wcstinghouse Electric International Co., 40 Wall St., New York. Mike's address is Scott Circle. White Plains. X. Y. His family: Kathleen. 13; Michael. 11. and Lawrence. 8. CLARENCE BUNCE, 208 N. Kenilworth. Oalt Park, 111., is, Credit Manager of John Wood Co., Chicago. His family: Patricia, 27; Ginny. 25; Jack, 23, and George, 19, plus three grandchildren, Clarence would like to hear from **BULL" De-COURCEY, CHARLIE DONAHUE, JACK MA­HO.V and GEORGE FITZGERvVLD. LESTER J. WOLF is Engineering Manager of R. C. .^.j Moorestown, N. J. His family: Walter, 22. UND Eng. Law '58; Marv- Jean, 20. and Jimmy, 7. Les writes "I greatly enjoyed visiting the campus . . . I didn't see any of the older fellows, but I en­


joyed meeting the younger ones." 
Well, fellows I only have a half dozen more and 
will save them for the next issue, and in the mean­
time I will get out another questionnaire. I would 
like you fellows to bring me up to date and give 
me news of yourself, your family and your class­
mates. 
From the Alumni OfHce: 
In a nota to ART H;\LEY^, '26, Director of ' 
Public Relations, ADAM WALSH requested some 
silent aspirations and crossed fingers from his friends 
at Alma Mater in his candidac>* for the Democratic 
nomination for the U. S. Congress from Maine's 
First District. 
P. S. Didn't work. But credit Adam with a brave tr>-. 
Rudy Goepfrich 
1926 
1109N. Cleveland Ave. South Bend 28, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTR^VNT 
J. H. DRISCOLL. 
I had a note from VINC GOULET in which he acknowledges receipt of and thanks MARK MOONEY for his contribution to our class treasury. Vine has had a long ^iege with a broken leg but reports that it's coming along pretty well novC'. 
As prcxiously reported, JOHN E. PROBST has been on our *'tnissing" list for some time. finally located- him in 'Wyandotte, Mich., and talked to him on the phone from Detroit several tim». I promised to visit him; will have more details to report after that. 
DR. GERALD ^V, HAYES is an Obstetrician and G>'necoIogist in his home town of East Orange, 
N. J. He lives in Montclair, N. J. In 195* 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 49 
Ccrr>' married Florence Auth, and now they have five cliildrcn. ^fary Florence graduated from Trinity College in '57, and is now a novice In S.N'.D. de Namur. Gerald is a senior at Notre Dame; Peter is studying for the Benedictines, and Henr>- and Michael are in Delbarton School in ^forristown, X. J. Dr. Gerry is active in several organizations devoted to his specialty and is Chief of Obstetrics in St. Michael's Hospital in Xcu-ark. 
X. J. His hobby is golf and he belongs to the 'Essex County Countrj- Club. He plans on attending our "61 reunion. Gcny says he visited NORB K.-\V.A.XAUGH in Portland, Oregon last summer. He writes that although Xorb is aiUng physically, ""his great mind is keener than ever, his spirit on the seventh cloud and his faith full and fast. He is '2G's man of the year, or any year for that matter. He recently married a vcr>- lovely woman and he will have many more years of happiness ahc:id of him. I am sure Xorb would appreciate an occasional note from his old friends." Dr. Ccrry also heard from JIMMY STACK recently and says: "You all know, of course, about his top status in the field of Orthopedic Surgcr>'." He also seos TOM FARRELL, his golf partner; K. AMXGERTER. who sells diesel locomotives for 
G. ^^.. and "little DAX O'XEILL, erstwhile of Butte. Montana, now an electrical engineer with Holophanc in X'ew York and recently returned from Xorthcrn Rhodesia with his charming English wife. Hilda." 
On a trip to Fl.irida in Nfarch. ^frs. G. and I 
«siied MARK MOOXEY and his wife Virginia. 
After doing air conditioning and refrigeration busi­
ness in many cities all over the U. S.. it looks 
like Mark has settled permanently In Florida. He 
operates z, similar business In Tampa, and lives 
in a nice new home in a new section of Tampa. 
Kc directed us to ROMAX FELDPAUSCH's home 
in St. Petersburg, where Roman spent the winter 
months. We had an enjo>-abIe visit with him and 
his wife Lenoir. We also looked up JIM GL\'XX's 
<Jift Shop in St. Petersburg's Beach. Jim wasn't 
in but we had a cheerful visit with his daughter 
"Mar^' .\nn. We wen; unable to contact LEO ST. 
JOHX in Tampa and AL JOH.AXXES in St. 
Petersburg. 
Wc also visited IRWIX PROBST, our Southern 
"Vice-President, at his lovely home on Key BIscayne, 
where we met his wife Mary and the two youngsters. 
"Marj- Jane and Bernard. His son Robert graduated 
from Xotrc Dame this June. Irwin Is active In 
Xotrc Dame affairs in Greater Miami and is now 
Foundation Chairman. 
IL\Y DURST and his wife w.-rc in Florida at the same time as v e. Although our paths crossed several times we did not meet. He wrote after­wards: "Grace and I were at Tlie Breakers Hotel in Palm Beach and I have to tell you a real Notre Dame 'small world' story. We went to the hotel course for a round of golf and were asked if wc minded pla>'ing with another couple, to whicli we agreed. Tlic starter said a Mr. and Mrs. CaliiU would be along shortly. When they appeared, they 
•were none other than Mr. and Mrs. BOB C:\HILL. our classmate in '26, whom I hadn't seen to talk to in some 54 ye.irs. It was a wonderful surprise and wc enjoyed being with Bob and his nice wife Helin. Bob owns and operates his own securities house on the Big Board in Xew York." 
We were saddened to hear of the death of GEORGE HARXETF, our genial friend and erst­while treasurer of our Class. George died on April 21 in Florida. More details will be found in the obituary section of the May-June Issue. Let us all remember George in our prayers. 
From the .-Mumiii Office: Mar>- O'.Ncill. daughter of \rr. and .Mrs. DEXXIS 
J. O'XEILL, became Mrs. Robert F. ^^onroe June 28 in St. Luke Church, Lakewood, Ohio. 
1 927 Clarence J. Ruddy 32 S. River St. Aurora, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTRrVNTS MARK FIEHRER, .!OHN T. REIDY, and AN­DREW SMITHBERGER. 
Wicn this Issue is published, the 19o8 reunions 
•willbe history. We. of course, arc not a part of the official reunions litis year. I am sure that last year's reunion is still fresh in the minds of those of us who attended. Yet in a way. that reunion seems long ago too. Perhaps that is because we naturally look to the future rather than to the past. AVt still have four years to go until our next reunion. It is naturally still too early to make any sort of plans, yet the thought that eventually we w-ill get together again is comforting, 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 
JOHN J. REIDY, '27 

The Notre Dame Club of Cleveland named John Reidy as Notre Dame Man of the Year 1958 for his outstanding sennce as a member and past president of the club. 
John was admitted to the Ohio Bar in 1928 and worked for the A. & P. Tea Com­pany as legal counsel in the 1930s. He later became partner in the law firm of Falsgraf, Rcidy and Shoup, specializing in corpora­tion and tax laws. He is a director of more than 20 corporations and secretary of many others. 
Recently appointed co-chairman of the Notre Dame Foundation for the Cleveland area, John worked in the last annual Foun­dation Drive. It was largely through his efforts and those of Chairman Karl Marter­stcck that Cleveland attained the highest contributor participation ratio of any major .American city. 
John lives in Bay Village, Ohio. He is married to a St. Mar>''s girl, the former Madelon Deacon. They have three children: John, Jr., who is associated with his dad's law firm; Nancy, who married a Notre Dame man, and David, now a freshman at Notre Dame. 
A trustee of the Catholic Charities Cor­poration for ten years, John is now serx'ing as President of the Board of Directors of Merrick House, a Catholic settlement home. 
The father of BILL HILLENBRAND died in Mardi. I seat a letter of condolence to Bill in behalf of the Class. In replying. Bill expressed the hope that before too long wc will have a chance to get together and talk over old times. Itc then wrote this sentence; "Tlje clock is running down a bit, so let's don't wait too long." He is right, of course, although wc don't like to admit it. In any event, we should all seize ever>' oppor­tunity we have of getting together with our old classmates. Wc probably could do more of this than wc do. Isn't it a fact that sometimes wc find ourselves in a city where a classmate resides, but because of pressure of our immediate business, wc neglect to give him a ring and let him know of our presence? Class associations are not formed evcr>* day; wc should clierish those wc have. 
1958 
While in Chicago rec*ntly I ran into FRf\NCIS 
McCURRIE and had lunch with him. As most 
of you know, he is now a Judge of the Municipal 
Court of Chicago, and is well regarded by both 
Bcndi and Bar. He was Public Defender of Cook 
County for many years with great success. Prior 
lo that time he was in the State Attorney's office, 
so he has had a wealth of experience in criminal 
matters. 
On another occasion also in Chicago, I saw 
TOM DUNN of Morris. He has been practicing 
law there ever since his admission to the Bar. 
and since his town is only aliout 30 miles from 
mine, our paths cross once in a while. He is ver>' 
successful and is an antagonist to be respected. 
Although our Class is not scheduled for a reunion 
this year, undoubtedly several o[ our Class will 
he in attendance. I hope to get a report from 
some of those who arc so fortunate as to be at 
Xotrc "Dame in these early June days. I will pass 
on to you all the news I get. 
From the .Mumni Oflice; 
COLONEL JOSEPH M. Mca\RTHY, who en­
tered the army in I93I, is assistant chief of stafT 
for logistics (G-4) for Headquarters, III Corps, at 
Fort Hood, Texas. In April and ^tay he was at 
Fort- Polk, Louisiana, where he was assistant chief 
of staff, G-4, for the army's "Exercise Strong 
Arm," At the riosc of maneuvers May 10 he 
returned to Patton Park, Fort Hood, where he 
and his wife Coena make their home. 
1 928 Louis F. Buckley ^ " 135 Blue Hills Parkway Milton 86, Mass. 
REUNION PICTURES 

Anyone who desires a picture of returning 
members of the Class of 1928 taken at the 1938 
Class Reunions mav obtain one by writing to 
REU.VION PICTURES, BOX 81, NOTRE 
DAME, INDI.ANA, enclosing a dollar with his 
name, address and class year. 
REUNION REGISTRrVNTS W. F. ARMIN, J. J. BAIRLEY, A. F. BEXNIXG, BERNARD J. BIRD, JAMES BOEHNING, ED BOURSE, R.\Y F. BOV, THOM/\S BOV, ANDREW J. BOYLE, JOE BREIG, ED.MUND J. BRENNAN, ROGER W. BRESLIN, F. EUGENE BROWN, WILLIA.\1 E. BROWN, LOUIS BUCK­LEY, JOHN B. BUSCHE.MEYER, WAYNE BUSH­.MAN, JAMES T. CANIZxVRO, J. P. CAXXY, VIXCE CARNEY, JOH.V M. CARROLL, MAU­RICE COXLEY, JIM CO.V.MEY, GEORGE COURY, FR,\XK CREADOX, J. M. CROWLEY, M.VTTHEW CULLE.V, R,\Y DAH.MAX, BILL DAILY, D. D. DALY, ALBERT F. DAVIS, HEXRY DAVIS, JOH.V A. DAVIS, EDWARD J. DE,\N, JERRY DeCLERCQ, ARTHUR DE.VCH­FIELD, FR^VNK J. DONOV.AN, JOE DOR,\N, BILL DOWDALL. JACK DOYLE, BILL DUTER, EUGENE FARRELL, REV. .MARK FITZGER,\LD, C.S.C., CHRISTIE FL,\XAGAN, JOHN FOX­TANA, FR,\NK M. GAL,\RDY, BERNARD CAREER, JOSEPH M. GER,\GHT\', ROBERT GILLESPIE, E. A. GLE,VSON, DR. JOHX GOCKE, W. G. GOELITZ, ROBERT F. GRA­HAM, AUGUST M. GR,\MS, ROBERT A. GRANT, RICHARD A. GREENE, JOE GRIFFIN, ROBERT A. HAMILTON, TO.M HART, HENRY HASLEY, GLENN HATCH, F. A. HEGARTi', JOHN HERBERT, JOE HILGER, MIKE HOG.AN, FR.VNK J. HOLDAMPF, WILLIAM A. HURLEY, GUS JENKINS, J. A. JOHXSOX, JOSEPH M. KANE, BILL KE.\RNEY, JA.MES R. KE/\RNS, GEORGE KELLEY, JOSEPH P. KIN.\E,\RY, ROBERT E. KIRBY, J. W. KIRWAN, WILLIA.M 
H. KOXOP, BERNARD J. KORZEN, JOSEPH L,\NGTOX, JACK LAVELLE, TO.M LAVELLE, ^HCHAEL R. L,\WLER, BILL LE,\HY, JOHN LEITZINGER, ADRIAN B. LOPEZ, GERALD C. LUDWIG, R,\Y.MOND J. LUSSON, JOHX J. LYONS, C. P. LYTLE, JOE MADDEN, THO.NL\S .MAHON, HENRY J. M,VSS.MAN, JR., FRANK 
P. .McOrVRTHY, EDWARD J. MeGAULEY, LEO .McINT\'RE, EDWARD P. .McKEOWX, JOHX 
V. McM,\NMON, JOSEPH P. .\IcNAMAR.\, JOHN McSORLEY, ED -McSWEENEY, ART MIL­LER, ROBERT .MOHLMAN, PE*\RL L. .MOORE, JOE S. -MORRISSEY, EDWARD J. MOWERY, R.VY .MULLIGiVN, REV. ANDREW .MULRE,\NY, C.S.C., JOHN R. MURPHY, WILLIAM H. MURPHY, GENE O'BRIEN, WILLIAM J. O'NEILL, VIXCE PENOTE, CARL A. PET­TERSCH, HOWARD V. PHALIN, RICaVRD PHELAN. J. CARROLL PINKLEY, WILLIAM H. PLUCHEL, JOHN POLISKEY, KENNETH POWER, RICHARD QUINL.\X, EDWARD R. 
ORANGE COUNTY—Part of the throng at club's first U.N.D. Night at Disneyland Hotel, Anaheim, Calif. At head table in background (I. to r.) Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Kennedy; Mr. and Mrs. Frank Carey; Mr. and Mrs. Bill Vangen; Mr. and Mrs. Jack Krause and Mrs. J. Mahon. 
QUINN, FR^\NK J. QUINX, PHILIP QUINN, EDWARD P. RAFTER, DONOVAN R.\U, HAR­OLD RE\'NOLDS, CHET RICE, JOHN W. RIC­KORD. MICHAEL RICKS, ERNEST RIEDER, MARTIN J. RINI, JOHN F. ROBINSON, HAR­OLD W. RUPPEL, MARTY RYAN, GEORGE SARGUS, GEORGE SCHEUER, RICHARD SCHILDER, JOHN T. SCHMFTZ, ALFRED A. SCHNURR, FRANCIS SCHROEDER, CHARLES SCHUESSLER, BERNARD R. SCHUH, FLOYD SE^VRER, NORBERT SEIDENSTICKER, JOHN SEITER, JOHN C. SHEEDY, GERALD SHEIB­LEY, JOSEPH R. SIMONIN, DAVID SMFFH, FRED J. SOLMAN, CYPRIAN SPORL, ARNOLD THOMA, PAUL TOBIN, CHARLES G. TOP­PING, RICHARD J. TRANX TOM TRAUGHBER, DANIEL VERRILLI, JOHN VOEDISCH, WIL­L.\RD F. \Vx\GNER, THOMvVS F. WALSH, VINCE WALSH, JAMES E. WHITE, J. QUENTIN WILDEMAN, FRITZ WILSON, JOHN J. WIN­BERRY, JOHN J. WINGERTER, L.\RRY WIN­GERTER, ROY A. WORDEN, and ART ZIM­MERMAN. 
Our thirty.ycar reunion was another tremendous success. The 175 classmates in attendance tmani­mously agreed that the time, cfTort and money ex­pended to make this another outstanding '28 reunion were all eminently worthwhile. Notre Dame and the Class of '28 will long remember this happy event. Despite the external changes in ourselves and the cnormour: clianges in the world around us, back on the campus and in our old associations wc seemed the same g:mg as of old. 
Although the class bar under the able direction of WILL.\RD WAGNER opened Friday afternoon, tin; reunion formally began at the Class of '28 Dinner on June 6. JACK L^WELLE did his usual outstanding job as toastmastcr. I wish to thank the Class for the generous gift given to me as your sccretar>*. It was presented by R/\Y MULLIGfVN. ED QUINN discussed the work of the Notre Dame Department of Guidance and Testing which he directs. Father Thomas O'Donnell, C.S.C., brought us up-to-date on recent developments at Notre Dame. Tlic following faculty members at­tended the dinner: Rev, Mattliew Walsh, C.S.C., Rev. John Margraf, C.S.C, Rev. M. A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., C. D. Ilafcl, Gilbert Coty, Frank Horan. Jose Coror.L. Paul Fenlon. Thomas F. Konop, R. J. Schubmell. F. W. Ker\'ick, Benjamin Dubois, Wm. Roemer, Walter Shiltz and Joseph Casasanta. A number of letters were received from other profes­sors who were unible to attend. .-\ll of our former teachers were invited to be with lis. 
Our classmate, FATHER MARK FITZGERxVLD, C.S.C., led the group in offering the rosary at the Grotto Fridav evening following the class dinner. JOHN J. WINBERRY had prepared a vcr>- im­pressive printing of a special prayer to Our Lady of Lourdes which was distributed to each clxssmatc present. Thanks, John for this favor. 
It was most inspiring to sec the large attendance and the sizeable number of communicants at the Ma>s for the deceased classmates on Saturday and for the living members of the Class on Sunday. These Mas:e3 were offered by FATHER ANDY MULRE.\NY, CS.C. The '28 Glee Club sang at both Mastes. In inemoriam cards, printed by JOHN WOULFE, contained the names of 8G de­ceased men . who had been in our Class, were distributed at the Mass on Saturday morning. 
We were pleased to hear from Father Theodore Hesburgh at a >pccial convocation on Saturday morning. Father Hesburgh announced that our classmate, GEORGE COURY, had made a con­tribution of 5100.000 to the University in honor of his Class of 1928. 
Luncheon meetings were held by the '28 journal­bts, engineers, architects, and commerce men. Tlic Class visited the community cemetery where 32 of our former teachers arc buried. F-ATHERS MULRExVNY and FITZGERALD led us in prayer. 
Films of tlte 25-year reunion were shown Satur­day afternoon. GEORGE COURY, a native of Lebanon, gave an excellent talk on the back­ground of the situation in the Middle East. 
Saturday evening wc attended the Alumni banquet where MIKE RICKS Chairman of the Committee for 1928 Class Gift, announced that the Class of 1928 was establishing a "Living Chair" in the amount of §15.000 which will be used for faculty improvement. Tliis sum was given as a memorial to Father Matthew J. Wabh, C.S.C, on the oc­casion of his Golden Anniversary in the priesthood. Tlic distinctive blue shirts and ties secured for cacli member of tlie class by VINCE CrVRNEY were impressive as the group was recognized at the .-Mumni banquet. 
GENE FARRELL displayed on the bulletin board a collection of old items, including a copy of the Commencement Exercises, June 3, 1928. It con­tained the names of 362 men who received degrees that afternoon, 27 of whom have died. Over one-third of the living men on that list returned for the reunion. 
Three-fourths of the mechanical engineers and 
BOSTON—^Thc head table for the Boston Club's Universal Notre Dame Night at the Commonwealth Country Club included (left to right): Jack Saunders, '31; Father Donovan, Club Chaplain; Ed "Moose" Krause. N. D. Athletic Director; Bill Dacey, Club Treasurer: Philip J. Driscoll, Director of Admissions at Brandeis University; Club President Bill O'Brien and President-elect Dick Hyland. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 51 
MIAMI—Club President Charles E. Maher and guest Frank Leahy (kneeling) with some Miami members of club's All-Florida high school Catholic football team (1. to r.), Ste%e Kolski, Bill Brickman, Larry Wilson and Jack Hayes, all of Archbishop Curley High, Leahy presented the awards at a club meeting in the Urmey Hotel. 
60 per ctnt of ilic civil ciiginccrs returned for the reunion. Over half of the chemical engineers and the arcliitecis v.crc present. ART DENCHFIELD of the Port of Spain, Trinidad, British West Indies, traveled tlie greatest distance to return for the reunion. Over thirty of the classmates present had not returned Jn a number of years, if ever, for a reunion. It was generally agreed that XORB SEIDENSTICKER is the youngest looking member of the Class. 
The following are the new Class officers for the next fiv- vears: J.-\MES A. .\LLAX, President; THONfAS -M. HART, Treasurer; LOUIS F. BUCKLEY, Sccretarx-; and the Vice-Presidents: BERNARD G.\RBER (East). VINCEXT CARNEY 
(Midwest), GEORGE COURY (South), and THOM.AS JONES (\i'est). Wc appreciate the good work done by the following retiring class officers: FRANK CREADON, President; JOHN SHEEDY, Treasurer, and the Vice-Presidents, BILL CRONIN (East). JOHN IGOE (.Midwest), ART CANTY (West), and JAMES a\NIZARO (South). 
Tlie class is again indebted to BERNIE GARBER and those who assisted him In another great pro­motional campaign. Tlic Christmas card and the picture mailing bv Bernie were outstanding. Tlie BILL DWTER Valentine and the ED BRENNAN St. Patrick mailings were tops. Excellent letters vfcre sent to all classmates bv FRANK CREADON, JACK SHEEDY, GEORGE SCHEUER, DICK GREENE, GEORGE KELLEY, MIKE RICKS, FATHER MULRE.\.N'Y, C.S.C., and JOHN IGOE. Very rfTcctivc letters were sent to special groups by CYP SPORL (LL.B), CH.\RLTE SCHUESSLER (Cixil Eneinccrs), JI.M ALL.AN (A.B.). GEORGE BEAMER ('29, LL.B.). AL DAVIS ( .Median ical Engineers). GEORGE SCHEUER (Journalists), D.\N BRADLEY (M.D.). HOWARD PH.\L1N (Commerce), RON RICH (Engineers). AL SCHNURR (Architects), and ART CANTY (West). No doubt many others sent let­ters of whicli I am not aware. 
F.ATHER ANDY \fULRE.VNY, C.S.C.» did a great Job as local committee cliairman. assisted by WILLARD WAGNER and ED QUINN. MIKE lUCKS ind his committee for the '28 Class Gift were \ery successful. Tlie contributions to this Class Gift were most generous. Wc appreciate the large monetary gift made to the Universilv bv GEORGE COURY in honor of the Class of '28. George also made a substantial contribution to the '28 Class Gift to the University. These contributions arc examples of additional areas where the Class of '28 has been first and has established pre­cedents for other classes to follow. Wc wish also to thank JACK SHEEDY, our efficient treasurer, and those wlio responded to Jack's requests for fimds to help defray Class aad reunion expenditures. Jim Armstrong, John Laughlin, Mrs. Margaret Boggs 

52 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September, 
and other members of the staff of the Alumni 
Office were most co-operative and without whose 
help it would not have been possible to get out 
many of our mailings, especially the Newsletters, 
to you. VINCE CARNEY made hii; usual significant 
contribution by securing for us very distinctive and 
impressive shirt; with '28 Class insignia and ties. 
Vince obser\'ed. "Maybe the shirts and all weren't 
as bright as before, but the whole crowd has 
tapered down so the colors were in keeping.'' 
One of the most plc:istint surprises at the reunion 
was the attcndanre of JOE KANE who has been 
on our "lost men" list for i^ver IG years. Joe lives 
at 309 East 50lh Street, New York 21, N. Y. He 
has been with the State and City of New York 
in the Welfare Department and the Personnel 
Department and expects to go with the Department 
of Hospitals soon. PAUL BRADY is in the Legal 
Department of th= Cleveland Transit Co., 1404 East 
9th Street. Cleveland, Ohio. 
Tlic mother of JIM ALLAN, our new Class Presi­
dent, died on June 5. whicli made it impossible 
for Jim to i.ttend the reunion. Mothers of JOHN 
LEAHY, JOSEPH DcBOTT, ED KEENAN, 
BERNARD and JOSEPH UEBBING also died since 
I prepared my last Class notes. Please remember 
them in your prayers. 
A number of classmates wrote advising that they regretted their inability to attend the reunion: BERNIE CROWLEY was undergoing a hernia operation at the time; ED KEENAN had a cast on his leg and was advised by his ph>-sician to re­main at hotm; LT. COL. GEORGE LEPPIG wrote from HolI\^vood, Florida, that his wife had an emergenc\* opemt'on and was unable to come; DOCTORS DAS BRADLEY and FRANK GUAR­NIERE w-ere kept home to meet scheduled de­liveries. The first baby delivered by Dan was scheduled to havi: her first child during the re­union week end. Incidentally, DR. DAN BRAD­LEY, who was featurrd as a Spotlight Alumnus in the May-June isrue of the Alumnus, received a cablegram from His Holiness Pope Pius XII be­stowing Apostolic blessing on Dr. Bradley for his presentation of the "Catholic Teaching on Medico-Moral Problems" on the telension program "Night Beat." ART CANTY, who has done an outstanding job as \'ice-president for the West, wired his re­grets at being unalile to be present. FATHER JIM McSHANE, S.J., HUDSON JEFFERYS and JOHN CMN also wTOtc indicating how sorf>' the>- were at being unable to make the reunion. Incidentally, one of the classmates gave me a ticket, "Good for On= Dance—jc. Tokio." which I sent to Father Jim. PAT VARRAVETO sent "best wishes from a grounded classmate." from California. Pat's second child was born May 3. Please keep me advised of births, as they arc really news again, 
MIKE LAWLER informed me that J. JUSTIN McCOR.MICK of Detroit is d-c-.-ascd. You prob­ably noted in the death notices in the Mav-Junc Alumnus that MARTIN J. CLEARY of Fort Wayne died on April 3. 
FATHER ANDY MULREANY, CS.C , who did such an outstanding job as local chairman of the reunion, is a delegate elected by the parish 
ST. LOUIS—Dr. Thomas A. Dooley, '48, 
(left) was named "Notre Dame Man-of-thc Year" by the St. Louis Club at the annual ' observance of Universal Notre Dame Night in the Chase Hotel. The award was pre­sented by last year's winner, Al Ravarino. 
2958 
ERIE—President John J. McComiick, Jr., '53, presents the Eric Club's Man-of-the-Ycar Award to Richard D. Daley, '17. 
priests to the Pro%-incial Chapter of the Holy Cross Order meeting at Notre Dame in June. 
HOWIE PHALIN, executive vice-president of the Field Enterprises Educational Corporation, was one of the returning alumni interviewed on a tclc­rision program originating during the reunion week end at the Notre Dame station. 
BILL KIRWAN idviscd that JAMES C. 
TOOMEY, who has been on our "lost men" list, died in 1945 in a VA hospital in Los .Angeles- He had been ill for some time as the result of a ser\'icc connected hvpertcnslcn. Jim received a B.S. in Pharmac\* in 1928. 
FRANCIS M2YER, JOE MORRISSEY and >-our secretary \Tsited FATHER PATRICK HAGERTY, CS.C, FATHER JOHN KELLY, CS.C, and BROTHER ALLEN at the Community infirmary-. They all asked to be remembered to you. FR(\NCIS MEYER took pictures of them, as well as many classmates at the reunion, for which we are most appreciative. It is my hope that we can have these pictures printed jn some manner to make them a\'allablc to you. Will other classmates who took pictures please send them to your Class sccrctar>*? 
The Charles B. Forbes column in Tlie Miami News for May 11, 1958, carried an Interesting history- of the life of GEORGE COURY. our class vice-president for the South. George, who has his 
. own brokerage office in Miami, now holds member­ships in the New York and fVmerlcan Stock Ex­clianges. He is president of the George Cour>' Land &. Oil Co. and a director of the Nfiami National Bank. George is a member of the Citizens Committee of the University of Miami and his been active in charitable work In Miami. Last year he headed the Miami campaign of President Eisenhower's program to obtain employment for the physically handicapped. Geoi-gc and his wife live In Miami and have two children. I trust that all of ycu who attend the Army game on October U, 1958, will be present at the third annual Class of '28 Cocktail Party in the Mahogany Room In the basement of the Morris Inn, immediately following the game. Your wife and friends are invited to join you at this affair. It is one of the few get-togethers where we can meet the wives who have shown so much interest in the Class and In this column. News which I picked up at the reunion will be included in my next column. In tlic meantime, please continue to send me news Items as you have done for the past 30 years, thus enabling me to give you a newsy column each issue. I believe that all will agree that the Class of *28 set a new high for 30-year reunions and several new records for the hi::torians, especially In attendance, religious services, and contributions. We are also successfully carrying out a suggestion made by the late JACK AfULLIN following our silver anni­versary reunion, '"We have to keep on with these afl'airs for another 25 years al least." A large 
number of classmate- have already asked me to put their names on tlic list of those who will attend our 35th reunion in 1963. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Lett reports have arrived that RON RICH, head of tlie Department of Chemical Engineering at the University, is ill, having undergone surger>* re­cently, and that Mrs. Irtne Kadow, sister of BERNARD KOR2EN, passed away April 21. Prayers of classmates would be appreciated. 
1 929 ^^^^y Staudcr Engineering BIdg. Notre Dame, Indiana 
REUNION REG1STR.\NTS GEORGE N. BE.\MER, GAYLORD HAx\S, JOHN L.\\V, J. V. LENIHAN, VINCENT LUK.\S, FRANCIS MEYER,' OU\T R SCHELL, CLETUS SCHNEIDER, ALR.VN SMITH, and JOSEPH P. SULLIVAN. 
It would cheer FRANCIS J. GUSHING, Indiana State Sanatorium, P.O. Box 179, Rockville, Indiana to know thi.t you remember him in his illness. Write him when you can. Francis visited Lourdcs the summer of '56, and he returned to Indianapolis. Only recently lias word reached us that Francis is seriously ill at Rockville. 
Reunion time is only months away. You will be hearing from your regional vice-presidents soon. They will appreciate any suggestions you have and any assistance that you can volunteer. Should you attend the Army game, would you attend a short Class of '29 sponsored buffet luncli immediately after the game should arrangements be made for such an event? 
Back for Commencement to sec voung Gavlord receive his B.S.E.E. degree were G.\YLORD HAAS ai.d his family of Arlington, Virginia. Gay­lord Junior will ser\e his stint in the Army, then enroll at Georgetown for a degree in law. Also on the campus were the JOHN T. KE/VRNS family of Champaign, Illinois. John Junior received his A.B. and goes to Yale to continue his studies in Pliilosophy where he has a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship. 
Another '29 family in evidence was that of PAUL BARTH0LOME\V whose Tom received his B.S.M.E. Tom will report to the Air Force soon; he was commissioned at Class Day exercises. 
Seated beside Tom Bartholomew* and immediately preceding him in the reception of his B.S.M.E. was GEORGE W. (BILL) AITKEN, son of GEORGE J. AITKEN, 9029 Fain-iew Rd., Silver Springs, Md. While your secretary did not visit with George J., wife Helen, daughter Susan, 23 (recently married), and daughter Nancy, 18 (a fresh­man at Georgetown), we presume that some or all were present as they were at the Army game last fall. For 16 months George was Controller for 
I.B.E.C. Housing Corporation in Puerto Rico. While there he took part in the establishment of their first N. D. Clulj. George continues his em­ployment with the U. S. Government in the International Cooperation Administration. 
LOUIS J. REGAN writes from Minneapolis where he is General Manager, Sears Roebuck and Co. Mall Order Plant, that he has a daughter, Sharon, a Junior at Marquette; and a son MICHAEL '56 no.v in Law School at the University of Michlcan. Louie sees "BUD" C. G. LIEMA­NOT, JERRY MCKAY, TOM RYAN, BILL GULMONT and JOE HALLM.\N at N. D. func­tions in the Twin Cities. 
(CHARLES) ROL/\ND WRIGHT of 1509 N. Blackweldtr Street, Oklalioma City, where he deals in real estate and cattle, has a daughter aged 20 who Is now married and residing In Houston, Texas. Roland would like to hear from FATHER LOUIS J. THORNTON and Fx\THER LOUIS DOREMUS as well as EMMETT Mca\BE. Eric, Pa.; and HENRY and PAUL ZANG, Kc­wanee, Illinois. Roni^Id. mv records show that REV. OTIS S. WINCHESTER is still at 611 Lake, 
Elyria, Ohio. 
DR. JOHN A. VAICHULIS, Chief Bacteri­ologist, Chicago Board of Health, visits the campus often to see his son, Eugene, now a junior in pre-mcd. Usually John Jr., 15, and Betty Anne, 13, accompany Dad. John was here for the Old-timers game. He recently visited with TOM CASEY, STUMPY CRONIN, MARSHALL KIZER, and RAY HILLIARD, who is Director of Public Welfare in Cook County. 
Attorney LARRY C/VRTON, Locust, New Jersey, and vnlc Catherine have a son, Lawrence 
A. Ill, at Williams where he is a sophomore. Peter, 16, is a prospect for Notre Dame; Timothy 
LOUIS F. NIEZER, '29 

Last year Louis Niezer was elected Presi­dent and Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Tokheim Corporation, Fort AVayne, Indiana, manufacturers of gasoline pumps, ser\'ice station equipment and acces­sories. This year he \vas named Notre Dame man of the Year by the Notre Dame Club of Fort Wa>'ne. 
Louis has been with Tokheim on the Board since 1937. From 1937 to 1947 he was Assistant Secretary and Assistant Treasurer. He became General Counsel and Vice-Chairman of the Board in 1947. 
-A native of Fort Wayne, he is the son of Charles M. and Rose Fox Niezer. Prior to Notre Dame he "was educated in Fort Wayne and Lakewood, New Jersey, .•\fter receiving his A.B. he went to Indiana Uni­versity for an LL.B. 
Admitted to law practice in Indiana in 1936, Louis practiced in Fort Wayne until 1956. He is a member of the American, Indiana and Allen County Bar Associations, the Notre Dame Law .Associadon and Phi Delta Phi. 
Louis married Rosemary Callahan in 1937. They have seven children: Mary Frances, 20; Louise, 17; John, 15; Charles, 14; Elizabeth, 11; James, 9, and Margaret, 
3. The Niezcrs arc members of St. John the Baptist Church. 
In addition to his other activities Louis is a member of the Board of Trustees and Vice-President of Our Sunday Visitor, Huntington, Indiana; Director of the Fort Wayne National Bank, Secretary-Treasurer and a director of the Taxpayers' Research .Association and President of the Citizens' Civic Association, Inc. He is District Gov­ernor and Treasurer of Serra International, a Foiu-th Degree Knight of Colimibus and a member of the Elks. 
Notre 

is now age 12. Larr>* would like to hear fron> JIM BRADY and BILL KRIEG. 
DR. GEORGE McDONNELL, 97 W. Main St., Freehold, N. J. reports daughter number nine, Justine, bom December 1957. The girls have two brothers. Word reaches us that the doctor is an outstanding one and a prominent Catholic 
M$o in New Jersey we have JACK RE.AGER, 581 Hazel Ave., Perth Amboy, Superintendent and General Engineer of the Perth Amboy Water Works. Jack and wife Helen have six children: John 16, Mary 12, Helen 10, Sheila 8, Timothy 6, and Elizabeth 4. Jack inquires of the whereabouts of GEORGE E. JE\VETT. Tlie .Mumni records have his address as 97 Connecticut St., Biggsfield 24, Texas. George please let this column and your many friends hear from you, 
CHARLES A. HASKELL is practicing law in Denver, Colorado. He is a member of the lima of Haskell, Crandell, Flynn (also an X. D. gradu­ate)) and Cochran. Charles has sue children: Roger, 22, at the Colorado School of Mines; Rus­sell, 18, at Rennselacr Poly. Inst.; Charles, 20, in the Marines; Dana, 16; Daniel, 10; and Jenean, 9. 
You have read of the personal activities in Alumni alTairy of JOSEPH E. WHALEN. His family nev>-s is as follows: daughtLr, Susan Ann, married JOHN 
D. \VHELAN, N. D. "53. and they have a daughter. Julia; daughter, Joan Ruth married Harold W. Ganser, Jr., and they have a daughter ace three. Joe would like to hear from P. L. MOORE, "27, his former roommate. 
GENE GALD.ABINL 4821 Washington Blvd., Indianapolis, is with Peerless Pump Div*ision of Food Machinery and Chemical Corp. His son Bob, 
•17, is preparing for Notre Dame; dauiihter Mary Ann is now 13 vears old. Gene sees J.ACK ELDER and BILL O'CONNOR. He would like to hear from ART DURBIN. 
'29crs, \vc are less than twelve months from our Thirtieth Class Reunion. It is not too early to make plans and to prod the pals you hope to see there. 
193 0 ^'^^'^ Plunkctt 
O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 

193 1 -Tames T. Doyle "' " 902 Oakton St. Evanston, Illinois 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated April 21 in Chicago at the Lake Shore Club. Among the 'Sler; present were NICK BOHLING, GIL SEA^LVN, RAY COLLINS, DON PARTLIN, TO.M CONLEY, DON OTOOLE and his brothers. BERT METZGER, JIM MULVANEY and JIM DOYLE. I had th; pleasure of a visit with BILL BROMANN whom I hadn't seen in several years. A former classmate, NEW KELLEY was there also. JIM MULVANEY mentioned that his daughter would be married in May and that JOHNJ5Y BURNS might be in town for the occasion. I could not get to see Jim and John that week end, but did get a call from the Brookl>'n Flash before he left. As usual, John always sends a good report on DICK BARBER and ED CUNTCINGILUL 
DON O'TOOLE was kind enough to have a copy made of the tape recording sent by JOHN KUHN to our reunion a few years ago. I played it for Sadie and FRANK HOLLAND recently and you may remember that Frank was one of the Chicago names mentioned frequently. Needless to say they enjoyed it thoroughly, but Frank seemed to get a bigger kick out of the tape made Friday and Saturday nights under the Lyons arch. It seems as though someone was panning FHIL .ANGSTEN about his first date with his wife. Frank mentioned tliat he and RED O'CONNELL were in Waukegan recently and decided to visit ED FOLEY'S Music Shop on Genesee St. Ed had left a moment before, but Red was able to call him a block awav. GIL SE.AMAN sent a clipping and picture of DR. RICH.ARD R. B.AKER who recently delivered an important address at the University of Dayton. Another clipping, also from The New World, announced the election of BERT METZGER to the Board of Directors of Bowman Dairy Cocpany. FATHER BOURKE MOTSETT was in town recently, but this time I did not see him. However, I was able to secure two seats to "My FaTr Lady" for Father Bourke and his mother. He informed me that JOE MEITZLER, who was with us in our freshman year, passed away during Holy Week. He mentioned thai KIRBY SHAFER, another classmate, had U m offer a Mass for the repose of the soul of Joe. This also brought a note from JOHN FORD 
Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 53 
MEAGHER: "Yo-i continue to do a really terrific job for the '31 Class (cx-antl otherwise) and I suspect that most, like me, fail to convey to you how very mucli your cfTorts mean to us. Saw JOHN' DORSCHEL here last week, came to find out how he could make more on each Buick sale. He look: great, and his scholastic philosophy is even greater. I've just heard of the tragic death of JOE MEITZLER of our Class, and beg you to accept the enclosure for Masses for him and the others we have lost. My very best personal re­gards." Thanks. John for your check. Be assured that vour request will be followed. I have already written F.ATHER JIM DONNELLY, C.S.C., St. ^fa^>•'s Missions, Lampassas. Texas to offer Masses for joe and also for EMIL TELFEL who passed away ^farch 24 at Lawrence, Kansas. Please re­member Joe and Emil together with other de­ceased classmates in your prayers. From AL GALL came a pleasant surprise: "You wouldn't believe this but this letter is almost two years in coming. I had meant to write after the 25th year reunion to tell you what a swell job you and committee did. It was a touching experience for me since I had not been back on the campus in 25 years. The current issue of the ALUMNUS carried your breezy class notes and the news of the death of RED ANTiLLS who was my roommate in Sophomore Hall. Please use the enclosed check for the Class ^fass Fund. My wife and I are planning a three-week trip to Europe. One of my stops will be at Geneva and Lucerne. Switzer­land. I recall that during our reunion there was 
a cablegram from a class member who was then 
stationed in Switzerland. Don't remember his 
name, but if your records show it. and he is still 
there, let me have his address: I'd like to say 
"hello" even though I'll be in both cities for but 
a short visit." I wrote .\1 and gave him the name 
of ED FLVNN, who I believe is the one with 
General Electric who went overseas. Thank you for your check which took care of the Mass for EMIL TELFEL. With another three years before our 30lh Year Reunion, there is time for most of you to do as Al did, make good on that promise to send a letter for the '31 column. Keep in touch with your Class .secretary with a letter and the Univcrsitv' through regular support of their ten-year program. 
109 9*"  James K. Collins  3336 Kcnmore Road Shaker Heights, Ohio  
REU'XION REGISTR,\NT ROBERT J. ROHRBACH.  

From the .\lumni Ofiicc: .An International News Service dispatch of ^farch 30 disclosed that a body recovered from Chesa­peake Bry, about 25 miles cast of Andrews Air Force Base, was identified as that of BRIG. GEN. CH.\RLES D. JONES, who had been missing since January 25, in case some classmates missed the report. Charles, deputy director of the Air Force's legislation and liaison office at the Pentagon, was co-pilot of a B-57C which crashed in the bay while returning to Andrews from Jackson, Miss. 
F. J. (FLO) Mca\RTin'. for the past two years New York director of the Notre Dame Foundation, has joined Lantr>-& West. Inc.. a real estate and insurance firm. Flo will be re­sponsible for residential sales in Westchester. N. V., as well as commercial and industrial properties. 
1 933 Joseph A. McCabc "* 2215 Lincoln E^-anston, Illinois 
REUNION PICTURES 
Anyone who desires a picture of returning members of the Class of 1933 taken at the 1958 Class Reunions mav obtain one by writing to REUNION PICTURES. BOX 81, NOTRE D.\ME, INDI.-XN.A, enclosing a dollar with his name, address and class year. 

REUNION REGISTR,\NTS GEORGE J. ARMBRUSTER, JOHN BARRETT, JOSEPH BEAN, GEORGE BEAUDIN, FRED BECKLENBERG, MARION BLAKE, JOE BORDA, ANDREW BOTTI, JACK BREEN, ROGER BRE.N­NAN, ANTHONY BRICK, J. \TNCENT BURKE, JR., JOHN H. CAHILL, PAUL CALLAH^VN, JACK GARY, ARTHUR T. CA\'ENDER, LOUIS 
MICHIGAN CITY—New officers of the Michigan City Club are (standing, 1. to r.) Louis 
E. Black, '49, president; Edward J. Dw^-cr, '50, vice-president; seated, 1. to r.) William J. Priebc, '53, treasurer, and Norbert Schaaf, '50, secretarj-. 
CHREIST, JOSEPH CHURCH.MAN, HUGH COLOPY, CHARLES A. CONLEY, PETE CON­NELLY, THOMAS E. COUGHL.\N, BERNARD 
L. COUSINO, JOHN M. CRIMMINS, A. W. CROWLEY, P.Vr CROWLEY, EDWARD W. DAILEY, JIM DALY, ROL.AND DAMES, JOSEPH DAVEY, FRANK EMIL DeCLERCK, BERNARD DcL,\Y, MAURICE DeWALD, LEO T. DILLING, JOSEPH DOCKENDORRF, WILLIAM F. DON.-\­HUE, REV. JIM DONNOLLEY, AL\aN DRY­.MALSKI, LAWRENCE DUNDA, NEILL EBERT, EDWARD J. ECKERT, THO.MAS ENRIGHT, PHILIP FAHERTY, FR,\NCIS X. FALLON, CH.\RLES L. FARRIS, TED FELD.\HN, G. L. FINNERAN, CIl\RLES FISS, JOHN D. FITZ­PATRICK, aVRLOS FRANK, AMBROSE J. FREEHILF, JOHN FRIEL, ROBERT V. FUL­TO.N, JR., JOHN GALLA, JACKSON T. G.\ND­OUR, ERNIE G.ARGARO, ROBERT GELHAU"S, JAMES GEREND. DOUGLAS GIORGIO, GEORGE A. GOEPFRICH, EDWARD COUGH, .ANTHONY GRASSO, HENRY GRATT.AN, NOR­M,\N GREENEY, JERRY GREER, THOMAS E. GRIFFIN, DON M. HAECKER, C. F. HAFRON, JR., JAMES HARRIS, GEORGE W. HARRISON, BILL RAWKES, WTLLARD J. HIGGINS, LEO 
W. HODEL, RICHARD HOSTE.\Y, JOHN A. HOYT, JR., WILLIAM P. HUNTER, MARVIN HUOT, FR,\NCIS H. HURLEY, S.AM HYDE, CHARLES J.ASKUTIICH, BOB JOHNSTON, JOHN JOYCE, LUCIEN KEMPF, J. E. KEN­NEDY, EDWARD KILLEEN, JOSEPH KIRIN­CICH, P.AUL KREUZ, FRED LAUGHNA, MAURICE W. LEE, C. B. LENAH.AN, FRiVNTC LENNARTZ, JOHN LEVSTIK, DONALD LU­SARDI, WTLLI.AM L^^NCH, EDWARD M.ASON, FRANK G. M.ATAVOSKY, MARSHALL Mc-AVENEY, JOE Mc&\BE, NATT McDOUGALL, FRANK S. .McGEE, WILLIAM MITSCH, MAR­TIN MORAN, THADDEUS MORAWSKI, ED MORIARTY, JOSEPH MUELLNER, LOUTS MURPHY', JOHN J. NEUBAUER, JOHN B. NICHOLS, AL O'BRIEN, CHARLIE O'CON'NOR, 
J. A. O'CONNOR, MICHAEL O'HARA, THO­M,\S O'.MEARA, PAUL F. O'NEILL, JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSY, T. C. PINKLEY, JR., RAR­OLD POHIMEYER, DAVID G. POWERS, REV. MAURICE POWERS , JOHN POYNTON, CHARLES QUnW , EUGENE RAU, GEORGE REILLY, GEORGE H. ROHRS, JAMES P. ROSS, ARTHUR RUPPE, EDMUND A. SARGUS, PAUL 
H. SEAM.AN, THOMAS W. SEXTON, W. LAWRENCE SEXTON, JAltfES SHEA, DON.ALD 
SHEEHY, EDWARD G. SIEGFRIED, CHARLES 
J. SLiVTT, JOHN F. SLO.AN, LAURENCE R. SMITH, WILLIAM G. SMFFH, ED.MUND STE­PHAN, AL STEWART, LiWRE-NCE STITT, -AUSTIN SULLIV.AN, E. M. SULLIVAN, JOHN 
J. SULLIVAN, REV. LLOYD W. TESKE, T. R. THUNE, JOHN H. TRAVERS, ED TROY, ARTHUR TUTELA, JIM UPRICHARD, KARL 
L. VOGELHEIM, EDWARD F. \'YZRi\L, FRED­ERICK WENIGER, -AN-THONY WRRY, and FRED ZIETLOW. 
From the .Alumai Ofiicc: .ARTHUR N. BecVAR, manager of industrial design at General Electric, has transferred his membership from the .Advisorv- Council for Science and Engineering 10 the .Advisor^' Council for Liberal and Fine Arts at the University. 
1 934 "^^ Edward Carey 
* 18843 Inglewood .Uc. Rocky River 16, Ohio 
REUNION REGISTR.AN'T ED CAREY. 

People on the move include: P.AT CARROLL from Cleveland to 306 Jocelyn Hollow Circle, West Meade, Nashville; ED SPORL, back home again from San Francisco, to United Fruit Co., 321 St. Charles St., New Orleans: DICK REEVES from St. Louis to C.O..V..V.R,C, Board No, 2, Fort Knos. Kentucky; BROTHER CLAUDE HARTS­MAN from Valatic, N, Y. to St, Joseph Farm. Granger, Ind.; CDR. JACK DcWILDE from the South Pacific to Naval Air Station. Supply Dcpt.. Seattle; BROTHER FR.ANCIS ASSISI DA\TS from Sherman Oaks, Calif., to Cathedral High School, Indianapolis; and JOHN Wx\LL.ACE from Denver to Rt. 133, Andover, Mass. 
A letter from J.ACK HENRY brings news of a number of the *34crs. Jack, since 1952 the editor of Babson's Washington Forecast, has had an in­teresting career. He has been in turn a radio announcer, program director, secrctar>- to a con­gressman, special agent in the F.B.I., magazine publisher, industrial relations manager, and news­caster and commentator for .ABC, before taking his present position. Just goes to show how versatile one of JOE CASASANTA'S proteges can become. 
Jack writes that he occasionally sees ANDY AUTH and TOM DWYER in Washington, and recently spent a week end with law>-er LARRY 
54 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 
MUSKEGON—Seated at the head table for Muskegon's Universal N. D. Night were J. M. Price, Club Secretary Leo Linck, Father Zcrfus, 
N. D. Basketball Coach John Jordan, Retiring President J. F. Oehlhoflfen, Rt. Rev. Msgr. Albert A. Kehren, James A. Morse, Richard L. 
GROSS in Plcasanlvillc, X. Y. Jack's address is: Babson's, Warner Bldg., Washington 4. 
C/\RL ZIMMERER, assistant news editor of the Courier-Journal in Louisville, is still willing to learn. He recently attended a seminar of the American Press Institute at Columbia U. Zim wonders what's with JOE YOUNG these days. Joseph. Zim lives at 610 Watagc Dr., Louisville 6—and the Class Sccrctar>* at the address above. 
To BOB CAHILL we arc indebted for neivs of two other classmates: ED L^\MB is iu the building supplv and farm machinerv business in Michigan. X, Dakota (Lamb Bros.), and CHARLES WOODS xvas recently transferred by G-E from St. Paul to Louisville as the new manager for dealer develop­ment. 
BOB BUTLER is being welcomed back to the local scene. Bob has joined forces with Jack & Hcintz, manufacturers of electric motors here in Cleveland. 
Our sympathy to HOWARD GILLESPIE and to DOX HERROX on the recent deaths of their fathers 
Your sccretarx' is still awarding double stamps to all who write, wire, phone (prepaid) news of themselves or classmates. Newspaper clippings, press releases, and non-scurrilotis gossip are also gratefully received. 
From the Alumni Office: 
GRENVJLLE X. KIXG has been appointed supervisor, serx'ice nietallurg>', structural, plate and high strength. United States Steel Corporation, Chicago. 
I 03 5 Franklyn C. Hochrciter I ywi* 702 Scarlett Dr. Towson 4, Marj'Iand 
From the Alumni OlHcc: 
Mrs. Irene J. Kadow, sister of ARTHUR L. CONRAD, passL-d away April 21, 1958, according to word recently received. 
Robert F. Er\-in 
1936 
1329 Kensington Rd. Grossc Pointc Park, Mich. 
REUNION REGISTR.VXT THOM.VS DUXX. 
John Laughlin asked me to submit copy for the .•\ugust-Scptember issue by May 25 but since tlic May-June Issue had just gone to press, I had no news to report. B\ the time our next column is printed, let's hope we have some response to the suggestions made in the May-June number. 
In thj meaniinie, we hope you all have had a fine vacation this summer. 
From the Alumni Office: 
JOHX S. GLE.\SON, JR., of Winnetka, national commander of the .-Vmerican Legion, was named Notre Dame Man of the Year by the X'otre Dame Club, of Chicago. The citation was made before 500 alumni al z dinner in the I-ake Shore Club. 
John, a banking executive, was chosen for his 
Mason and Club Treasurer William Tardani. 
"exemplar>* Catholic, public and personal life and his dedication to the University's high ideals and principles.'' 
1 937 Joseph P. Quinn 
P. O. Box 275, Lake Lenape Andover, N. J. 
Again, thij Is your column. From a mailing of 75 letters (form), I received thirteen replies. This is 18%. Now some of you offenders had a second request from the other Issue. I know you sec a lot of the N.D, boys In your activities—so trj- to remember to write about them. 
ED "COOPER" CROrn', Director of Athletics, City of Danbur\', Conn., informs us that his older son has been accepted and will be a freshman in September. Ed ran into JERRY CL.-VEY'S at the Morris Inn while Claeys was giving the members of the Quinn family a tour of the University. Ed spent nine years at Providence College (Started with HUGHIE DEVORE) and Brown University unti' 19-16 when he took the position in Danbury. In the city of Danburv* Ed Is also Town Director of the Recreation Progmm, and during the summer has his own prl\-ate day camp (Ft. Knox). Ed had the misfortune to lose his wife last July after a long illness. He was glad to hear from PHIX. BONDI and JOE HUGHES, and also from an old Freshman Hall and St. Ed's man, BOB RUS­SELL. ELMER ZEN-VER, formerly of Dallas and now hailing from St. Paul, Minn., as sales repre­sentative lor Scovill Mfg. of Waterbur>", Conn., and Hamilton Beach of Racine, Wis. He is mar­ried with a family of four daughters and one son, ranging In ace from 4 to 16 vcars. Sorr\". Elmer, I can't give you WILLL-VM I. LYNCH'S address as they have been unable to reach him for years. 
ARCH GOTT wrote us while cruising at 20,000 feet via United .Airlines on a trip to California. He is with International Har\'c3ter*s Motor Truck Division in charge of sales to manufacturers. (Any­one need a good size truck?) .Arch hasn't decided which way the Cubs will flip this year. He states seeing JOE DORG.AX of the advertising dept. of the Chicago Daily Xcws, then reporting that JOHX COYLE is in the lumber business and BOB CROX­IX is tr\"Ing to re-roof ever>* house and plant in Chicago. Arch .j a neighbor of TO-NY .MAZIOTTI'S and thcv live up the O.U. game of '35 rcgularlv. Arch also reports tliat FERD "LEFT\*" RYDELL is on a three-year government accounting jaunt to Burma with liis family, and reports being a coach for a new game called "Base-a-Ball". . . . .Arch intends looking up JIM B.ACOX on the west coast to meet the Hollywood beauties and characters. Jim is getting a lot of **by-lincs" lately on the happenings out there. 
BOBBY SIEGFRIED reports on the Tulsa and vicinity happenings. JOHX SH.AW is going out of the oil business gradually and going full time in the undertaking business (Shaw's I.ay-a-Wav Plan— FRAXK QUIXL.\X please note the plug). JOHX O'HERX of Texas, married and with two children, is an oil operator who drops in the Tulsa area. Sieg heard from CLAY MURRAY of AVIIliston, North Dakota, where he is head of the Land Dept. of fVmcrcda Petroleum Corp., father of four children and appointing Sieg as Godfather of the little girl just bom. Sieg Is quite holiday-minded as Betty presented him with a boy (Child X'o. 5) on Valenti;:c*s Day and the previous little girl was born on Christmas Day. CARL SEXGER is a Trustee for the ^\'arren Petroleum Corp. CHJVRLES DOHXALEK, attorney for the same Corp. Is now administrator for the Warren Foundation which is building an eleven million dollar hospital in Tulsa. 

.\ note from GORDON' MURPHY, V-P, Ameri­can Xational, Cheyenne, reports after losing hu mother the first of the year, his yomigest sister, age 31, passed away leaving a vcr>* young family. 
We finally heard from GEORGE BOXFIELD, V-P and Gen. ^^gr. of J. ^L Keeling Sales, Miami, Fla. (Wc are correcting your mailing address too, George.). The Miami Herald on May 11th featured a mother's day Item entitled "Mother of Xine 'Feels Just Like a Drill Sergeant*". The article cuoted Mary Irma Bonfield and had a grand picture of th" group. Only object George couldn't account for was the dog. Xo;v' wc know why he hasn't been a contributor to the news over the years. Tills crew goes from 3 weeks to II years That Is better than par for the course. Irma, a Georgia cracker, has things well organized. Including the old man. Congratulations, George, on a fine family and article. 
Busy executive LEOX "SKIP" CORAHER of Westbrook, Mc., has the missus as a secretary to drop us a line on the happenings in Maine. She is also general manager of the family General Insurance Business while "SKIP** keeps up the political life he led at X.D. From the State Liquor Commission, he now is State ^fanager and Public Relations for Kcssler-Gallagher & Burton. Many of us are doing a job for him along this line with G&B. but haven't realized it. I am recommending him to the 25th reunion committee. Three sons with the oldest a freshman at X.D. and a daughter arc keeping the family busy. With Ray Gelgcr of '32 they are building a club In Lewiston. **Skip" \.-ould like to hear from JOHN aVMPBELL (He didn't answer my letter. Skip) and FR:\XCIS EG.VX. Many thanks for the note, Mrs. C. 
WALT XIENABER, Sccrelar\- of the Cincy con­tingent, reports still only three, t\vo gals and a bov with school the big Interest. Walt met BUCKY JORD.AX (Area V.P.) in Chicago. The local boys, JERRY GOH.Mi\X is the "silk screen sign" man, and BERT SCHLOEMER worts for the advertising agency that handles the local brewery account which sponsors the CIncy Reds on TV. BOB BURKE wins the marbles for the large family in Cinc>* with six. Walt manufactures leather watch straps, etc., and I recommend that he make the "old fashioned" strap that grandpa used to use. This Is one way to cut down on all this J.D. we read about in the paper. The hardware man from .Malonc, X. Y., R.ALPH aXRDIXAL, rubs 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 2958 55 
it in reporting a nice trip to St. Crobc, Virgin Islands, to rest from the wcar\- business hours— with a little such relaxing as skin-dinng, marketing and enjoying 90o temp. He reports MIKE TACK­LEY is busy w-ith the local radio station after a Fla. trip. Ralph states for any of the lads coming his way for the Seaway and Power Project at Massena, X. Y., that Malone has a lot of nice places to stay and he would like to hear from the lads on arrival. 
The Lebanon, N. H., newspaper reports that GERALD ZEILLER was elected Sccretars- of the Board of Education of that \-icinity. 
JIM OWXR , attorney, Erie, Pa., reports in with 6 children ranging from 15 to one. His wife is a Trinity College, Washington gal. Jim has been practicing law in Erie since the war. He hopes to make thr Army game and sec some of the lads. (Don't forget the 25th either.) 
AL SCHWARTZ forw-arded a few notes from Salina since he had heard from HANK RUEN, who regretted missing the 20th, and seen JACK ULL­MAN regtJarlv, (Hank, wc gave you the info on PARKER SULLrV.\N in the hst issue). 
DICK SMITH writes that he is purdiasing agent of the local plant of Phelps Dodge Reiining Corp. of El Paso, Texas, has a family of two bo>*s and tH-o gals, enjo>'s reasonably good health and humor and expects to be in Chicago for the International Convention of the National Assoc, of Purcliasing Agents, with a side \ish to tlie Campus, naturally. 
Xew Rochel'.e operator and leader of the X. Y. 
N. D. Club, BILL FALLOX reported on his acti\-itie3, whidi arc many. . . . Had Coacli HUGHIE BEVORE in his area for Hvo speaking engagements, Westdiester and Long Island. Saw ED. NEAHER, .Attorney, vvho is chairman of the Long Island Chapter. Bill also reports hearing from FATHER CROXAX KELLY, O.F.M., who is in charge of the Newman Center in Georgia University. Father Kelly ser\*ed as X. Y. Club Chaplain last year wliilc Bill was the president. 
FATHER NED JOYCE reported on all his jaunts thit>ughout the Country with the UXT) Nights ind hopes to be around the Univ. for a while. The Quinns, sisters and nieces, \Tsited with Father Ned and the JERRY CLAEYS family. The niece has been accepted at St. Mar>-'s. For you interested fathers and mothers, name is Marion Fleck, in case junior gets lonesome at N.D. Many thanks to all mv contributors. Keep the news coming. Noiv I know how FATHER JOE EXGLISH feels in Chile, publishing "if and when.'* 
Grace Ann Mever. sister of GORDON MURPHY and daughter of ROBERT D. MURPHY, 'Ot, passed away .April 29. at age 31, leaving two young children. Sirs. Murphy, Gordon's mother, died January 30. 
J. M. POWERS has beer, granted three U. S. petrochemical patents, bringing his total to . II inventions. He is with Humble Oil in Baylown and Houston, Texas. 
1 93 8' **  Burnett C. Bauer  1139 Western Ave. South Bend, Indiana  
Harold A. Williams 307 Cedarcroft Rd. Baltimore 12, Maryland  

REU'XIOX PICTURES 

.\nyone who desires a picture of returning members of the Class of 1938 taken at the 1958 Class Reunions mav obtain one bv writing to REUNION- PICTURES, BOX 81, .NOTRE DAME, IXDI.\NA, endosing a dollar with his name, address and class year. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS LOUIS ANDERSON, JOHN ^VNTON, WTLLUM 
B. ARMEL, .MARCELLUS BALL, JOHN BALTES, EDMUND BARNETT, BURNETT BAUER, CHARLES BEASLEY, VICTOR BECK, JOHN J. BEER, ED BERNARD, JOHX A. BOND, CHARLES BOROWSKI, JOHN BOURKE, ED BREX^N.-iX, EDWARD J. BREXXAN, Cft\RLIE GALLAHAX, P.AT CAREY, DICK CARRIG.AX, JAMES GARSON, JOH.\' CLIFFORD, D.AVID 
J. COXTCOR, JOHX C. COTTINGHAM, ED­WARD J. CROXI.V, FRAXK CRO^VLEV, TI.M CRUICE, DOX CURRIER, JOHN F. D.A\TS, FRANK DEL.ANEY, BOB DERENGOSKI, WIL­LIAM DIBRIENZA, JAMES DOUGHERTY, ROBERT DOYLE, ROBERT DUBOIS, REDMAN DUGGAX, CH.ARLES W. DUKE, J.AMES DUT­
SAN ANTONIO—^This happy group obser\-ed Universal Notre Dame Night with the San Antonio Club: (seated, 1. to r.) Emmett Cater, vice-president; Rev. Thomas E. Hewitt, C.S.C., Lackland AFB chaplain; Bill Markey, secretary, and Rev. Paul Mabry, O.M.I., club chaplain; (standing 1. to r.) Mrs. Emmett Cater; John O'Connell, president; Mrs. Bill Markey; Joe Klein, N.D. undergraduate; Mrs. John O'Connell; Ed Haggar, Dallas, vice-president of the Alumni Association and principal speaker; and Brother Harold Young, C.S.C., principal of Holy Cross High School, San Antonio. 
MERS, TO.\I ELDER, D. G. E.MANUEL, DONALD FISHER, EDWARD H. FISHWICK, THOMAS FITZGERALD, EDWARD FLVJIGAN, RICHARD FOLEY, H.\R\TEY FOSTER, JOHN J. FRAXCIS, ROBERT E. GARTLAXD, RICHARD GERL, WILLIAM J. GIBBON'S, DAXIEL S. GIBBS, JR., JOHN GOR.MAX, RICHARD J. HE.\XESSY, DOX HICKEV, FR.\XK HIGGINS, EDWARD HOGAX, BILL HORAX, PAUL HUGHES, THO­MAS HUGHES, JOHN JEHLE, JOHN H. JO­HANNES, TO.M JORDAN, JOH.\ B. JOYCE, JOHX KAXE, OWEX K.4XE, THOMAS G. KAVAXAGH, GREGG KEEG.\X, MAURY KEX­XEDY, L.-\WREXCE KERWTN, FR,\XK KIRCH­MAS, HUB KIRCH.M.AX, JOHX J. KLISE, JOSEPH L. KUHARICH, J.MIES LAHEY, XICK LAMBERTO, HAROLD LANGTOX, S.4MUEL L/WLER, JACK LEADBETTER, PAUL LE.-VHY, JOE LILL, HENRY LIPSIE, RUSS LOXGON, R,\y LONCSTRETH, JOHN LUNGREX, JOHN L\-XCH, FR,\XC1S H. -MAY, JR., BOB MA­Z.-\.\EC, EDWARD S. Mc&\BE, P.AT McGARTY, BOB McGRjVTH, WILLIAM J. McXAM.ARA, JOHN -MAHOXEY, JOSEPH D. MAXIX, WALTER MARSH,\LL, R.\Y MEYER, WALTER .MOXA­CELLI, JOSEPH MOORE, CHARLES M. MOR­RISO.V, ROBERT .MULLEX, THOM,\S MULLI­GXS, GEORGE MURPHY, JOHX MURPHY, PAUL XOWAK, WILLIAM O'BRIEX, JOHX O'COXXOR. FRAXK O'L^UGHLIX, ARTHUR PHILSOX, jOHX F. PLOUFF, JOHN POORE, FR,\NK PRUSHA, PAUL PSIK, REV. ADRIAN JOE RACE, B. SCOTT REARDOX, WILLIAM H. ROBIXSON, VERNON RUGE, FRANK RUSSELL, DICK SC.\XXELL, FR.ANCIS X. SCHAEFER, PAUL SCHAUB, GEORGE SCHLAUDECKER, BOB SHE\, PETER SHEEH.\X, THO^US SHEILS, ALAX SHERROD, BUD SHERWOOD, PHILLIP SHIELDS, LEO.NARD H. SKOGLUXD, JR., GENE SMITH, ED SXELL, JACK SOLOX, P.\TRICK STILLIS,\XO, ANTHONY SULESKI, CHUCK SWEENEY, TED SWEENEY, CHUCK TERRY, JOHN D. THOMAS, THEODORE W. TREFZER, JOH.N TROSKOSKY, CASS VANCE, NELSON VOGEL, JOHX WATERS, BOB ^^•EBSTER, THO.MAS H. WEIGAXD, BOB WHITECOTTOX, GEORGE WILLLAMS, HAL MLLIA.MS, THO.NLVS W. \\TJKOVITS. 
From HAL WILLIAMS: 
To meet tlic deadline, this is being typed just two weeks before the reunion gets going. Con­sequently I have little to report. In fact, I have just three questionnaires. 
JOHX JOILVXXES, rcporU that he has m o boys and two girls. He is a mink rancher on the X. H. Johannes Mink Randi, Inc., which is on Route 1, Port Washington, Wis. OSCi\R JOE ZOSS lives in Atlanta, Ga., where he is in business for himself "building houses and trying to sell them." He has four daughters; the oldest, 17, enters the University of Georgia this fall. Tlie ages of the other three are 13, 8 and 3. He adds that he gets back to school about once a year. CHARLIE .MORRISOX lives in Richmond, Va., and is a partner in tlie firm of Tabb, Brockenbrough & Ragland. a general insurance agency. Charlie's responsibility is rate increases and unpaid daims. He has two boys. He reports that he has seen, among other DAN' COCH­RAX, ROGER JORDAX, AL MAILES, DA\'E BROCKEXBROUGH. Dan, he says is bailing his mone>" in Wheeling, W. Va. 
That's it, felloivs. Xothing more. I'm sorry the rest of yon didn't mjil those questionnaires. . . . 
From the Alumni Office: 
a\RLETOX MacDOUGALD (33 ^Villiams .Ave.. Edgewood 5, R.I.), who is still in a wheelchair but making progress, wired his friends at the reunion that he would not be able to make it but that he would definitciv be on hand for the 25tli in 19G3. 
DR. DAN MOXAGH;\X, now a major in the .Army Medical Corps, getting out of service in late summer, wrote from Xlcenza, Italy, that he would not be able to take time off for the reunion. Dan came all the way from Italy to sec the Irish turn an upset last fall. 
C. CALL/VH.\X and H. WILLIAMS arc not the only scintillating journalists in the Class of '38. XICK L.\MBERTO of the Des Moines Register won first place in the spot news division of the 1958 Iowa .•\ssociatcd Press ne%v3 writing contest with his story of Roy Sodcrquist's unauthorized flight over Des ^^oines in 1957. It's Nick's third first place; he also won the AP Sweepstakes in 1953. 
From BURNIE BAUER: 
A number of things took place at our 20th Re­union, some unusual, some notable, some confusing. Undassificd as yet was the appointment of SWEDE BAUER, the wavy-haired (it waved good-bye years ago) DP from Good Thunder, Minn., now wcll­manorcd (two houses, no less, not counting the little one with the half moon window) on 20 acres near South Bend, as new class secretary. Here arc his initial observations as seen through Bourbon-colored glasses: 
Whereas reunion activity five years ago centered around sudi Mar]bort>.|ike demonstrations of physi­cal prowess as bathing in a tank of ice cubes, this year's gathering tended more towards the intel­lectual. Tliere was much less golfing, e-xcept for Chicagoans LEN SKOGLUND and BILL AIUIEL who Silky Sulli\'an,:d their way around the course h.alf a dozen times with results similar to said Silky's and .MAURY KEXT<EDY, ED SXELL, TOM JORDAN and BILL HORAN who are still out there. PAUL HUGHES, a real-estater who knows all the dirt around Flint, Mich., played a more tyricd round. Slated to tcc-olT at 10 a.m.. 
56 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 
he finally got there at 3 p.m. and after five holes headed for the club house. Less beer was con­sumed except for our Prexy JOHN 0*COXNOR of Indianapolis and PROF. ED CRONES of N. D.. Cltairman of the Great Return^ who in their official capacities displayed great capacity. There was less noise and less heat—in fact a mite chilly —except on Saturday night when H.\L Li\NGTOS' was sponsored by PETE SHEEH^VN in a round bottle discussion in front of Rockne Memorial on the merits of X. D.*s recruiting s>'stem or lack thereof, with PAT McCARTY, BABE MARSHALL, JOHN P. (Left End) MURPHY, JOHN PLOUFF and DON FISCHER. More pertinent was the pro­test volunteered on ED McCxVBE'S (M.D.) not receiving on some technicality, top Tournc\* honors though he shot a 71, low for the week end. 
A display of clair%*oyance was shown by ED BRENN/\N, the Paw Pau-, Mich., paper peddler, and SCOTT RE^\RDON who does the same to hardware in Sioux City So. Dak. in picking the B=lmont winners in a pool run by BOB CROWLEY, who displayed his usual practicality by winning third. 
Other intellectual activities included PAUL NOWAK'S bridge parlor just ofT the ^fo^rissey lobbv which was patronized bv such students of bidding as HOOK KERWIN, CHARLEY DUKE, CHUCK BOROWSKI, JOHN BOURKE, CHUD SCANNELL, JIM CARSON and DAVE CONNOR. 
Also noticeable was the increase in the number of men of distinction. Doctors DENNY EMANUEL, formerly of Left Tackle but now of Dcs Moines; AL SHERROD, who specializes in Obstetrics and Oil Wells in Texas, and ARTHUR PHILSON, who specializes in Yankees since the Dodgers and Giants left his city, carried on a high plane and ball of discussion as they lounged on Morrissey square with such men of law and commerce as BOB DEREN­GOSKI, who lives a Spartan life especially in the fall in East Lansing; ED BARTNETT, the N. Y. Times mainstay; REDMAN (FOSTER D.) DUG­GAN soon to be Africa bound on another diplo­matic assignment; FR/\NK DEI^VNEY, the Cookie King of Iowa; JIM DOUGHERTY whose son Pat is in the front row of the reunion picture; BILL GIBBONS enjoying his last days of bachelorhood; BOB MAZ.\NEC, better known as Mr. Banker in Cleveland; DICK HENNESSY, who moved from Missouri to Indianapolis just to be closer to the reunions, and DICK C:\RRIGr\N, who stayed in Chicago^s River Park for the same reason. 
In an unofficial sur\*ey^baIloling was by drop­ping beer cans down the laundr>* chute—GEORGE "MOOSE** WILLIAMS, who ne%cr went back to Minncsoti was voted most distinguished looking; JOHN TROSKOSKY and TED TREFZER, most extinguished looking. Most cliildren—MxVRCELLUS BALL; tallfit (now both wa>-s), PAUL NOWAK; most durabh bachelor—JACK MAHONEY, .-Vshta­bula, Ohio's most popular law>'cr (with the women); thinnest—TOM KAVANAGH; fattest—No Contest, not enough prizes. 
Highlight of the week end were the two Nfasscs ofTered for members of the class and their families, both livipg and deceased bv F.VTHER JOE R.\CE. CHUCK BE.\SLEY, JOHN BEER and DENN"^' EM.\NUEL were servers. CHUCK SUTENEY took up the collection which was turned over to Father Joe for his parish work m Milwaukee. 
A memorial card for the 25 members of the class who have died ^vas made up by yours tnUy and will be mailed to cvcr>' member of the class sometime this summer. 
A lot of credit for a week end of happy memor­ies is due ED CRONIN, and his South Bend Class of 38 committee, including LOUIE ANDER­SON, CELLY BALL, CHUCK BOROWSKI, CHARLEY aVLLAH.\N, DON FISHER. BILL GIBBONS, DON HICKEY, JOHN MURPIH", FRANK "GLEE CLUB" SCHAEFER, and NEL­SON VOGEL, who despite ha\'ing received only 80 advanced registrations managed to feed and tran­quilize the 14G members of the class of '38 who showed up. 
1939 J^^i^ ^ - Afotschall Singer-Motschall Corp. 10090 West Chicago Detroit 4, Michigan 
There are still quite a few fellows who have not returned either their first or second Questionnaire, and if you arc one of them I would certainly appreciate hearing from you. \\*hen I complete this column today I will have vcr>' little news or information to put into future ALUMNUS maga­zines. So it behoove: all of you to continue to send news to me. 
NEAL P. COCHRAN has been working for the 
BURNETT C. BAUER, '38 

When the Christian Family Movement holds its 10th anniversary* convention on campus this month Burnie Bauer should take a bow. With his wife Helcnc, a former in­structor at St. Mar>-'s, he organized the first CFM group in the country' in March, 1947, with Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., as chaplain. First president couple of the South Bend-Mishawaka Federation in 1948 and 1949, Burnie and Helene played a leading role in the formation of a national CFM, serving on the first executive board of the first national coordinating committee and speaking at the first National CFM Convention 10 years ago at Childerly, near Chicago. 
Burnie wrote the first CFM pamphlet, "Blueprint for Family Catholic Action," and the first national article on CFM in the March, 1948, Integrity. He and Helene have spoken on CFM before groups, clubs, and colleges throughout the U. S. 
Burnie was born in Underwood, North Dakota, and grew up in Good Thunder, Minnesota. Known as "Swede" to his class­mates, he joined the first student Catholic .Action cell of Young Christian Students, organized on campus by Father Putz. .\fter graduation he worked on a two-year gradu­ate fellowship in apologetics and received his master's in 1940. His thesis on Catholic scholarship was a source of later studies, including two articles in America by Bumic and Julian Pleasants. 
Other activities include the organization of high school YCS groups: the founding, with E. S. Ceissler, of a still-thriving Catholic rural community; directorship in Catholic Social Scr\-ices and in Fides Publishers, Chicago; charter membership in the South Bend Serra Club (currently vice-president). Lions and other organizations. A former editor of the Ball-Band Red Ball, he now owns the Lindsay Soft Water Co. 
The Bauers have eight children: Betty .Ann, 16; Burnie Pat, 14; Teresa, 12; Margaret, 10; Barbara, 9; Matthew, 7; Bernadette, 5, and Mar\* Frances, 3. 
Notre 

CSIL Corps of the U. S. Army since 1931, and he lives in Aurora, Colorado, with his wife Anne and their three beautiful daughters—Barbara Anne, 9, Patrice, 6, and Marion Kathryn, 3 months. Neal would like to hear from JOHN JAEGER and JACK RYAN, siso any other Ch.£ngrs., and he is also looking forward to seeing all his engineering friends at the Class Reunion in 1939. 
JOHN F. (FRANK) CONRAD lives in Vin­cenncs, Indiana, where he is a High School teacher and coach as ^vcll. FRANK is the proud father of six children, namely Michael, 17; Robert, 14; Mary Jayne, 11; Sally, 9; Elizabeth, 7; and Susan, 4. Frank's oldest son Michael is studying for the priest­hood. Frank would also like you to know that he coached Gil Hodges, first Daseman of the L. A. Dodgers, for two years in High School—and it is this coaching that has made him so good! 
LOUIS A. RADELET lives in Long Island, New-York where he is the Director of Program Oper»< lions for the National Conference of Christians and Jews. Louis* Iuck>- number must be se\'en, be­cause that is the amount of children that the Radelets now possess. They are in name: John, 14; Joseph, 11; Ann, 9; Michael, 7; Timothy, 5; David, 2, and Steven, 3 months. Louis would like to hear from BERNARD FEENEY. Lou had a very fine visit with TOM REARDON in Kansas City and informs u> that Tom has nine children, so Lou is trying hard to catch up. Lou also has lunch with TOM GILLESPIE in Neiv York occasionally. 
CARL H. FRICKE, JR. lives in Los Angeles with his wife, Eleanor, and their three children— Carl III, 11 years; Steven, 9, and Leon, 2»4. ^Vhcn Carl is^ not selling wholesale paper products, he is working in his orange and avocado groves. The family usuall7 spends part of the summer at Catalina Island. Carl saw FRED STUBBIN5 who livcs^ in La Jolla and is working for a San Diego Radio and T.V. station. Carl would like to hear from DICK O'MELLV and promises that he will write to JOHN CELLA. 
D.AN SHEEDY in a suburb of BufTalo, New York, where he is an Account Executive of B.B.D. & O. (for those who do not understand the initials, they stand fc-r Batten, Barton, Duistine & Osbom, a national advertising company). Dan and his wife .\lice havj five childrea—Joanne, 14; Madden, 9; Kathy, 8; Beth, 6; Donna, 3, . . . and how old, Dan, is "Finis"? Dan saw NOIOf ANDERSON on his way to Germany with the army a year ago. NORM is a Major, flics 'Copters, is married and has three young ones. Dan would like to hear from PETE MARTIN, JOHN DWYER, JOE DRAY. LUKE LACROIX, PAUL DONOVAN, FRAN HOG.AN, LLOYD WORLEY, TO.M SHEE­ttAN, DOC HUGHES and RED LAMB. Dan has not been back to South Bend since 1949, but Is eagerly awaiting the summer of 1959 to make up for the past ten vcars. 
FR/\NK X. TULLY Is a buyer in the Ralston Purina Company and has three pretty daughters— Victoria Anne, 12; Mary Grace, 9; and Elizabeth, 
6. Frank would like to hear from GEORGE ^MLLIAMS and JACK SULLIVAN. 
THOMAS J. KAL.M.\N is an Attomey-at-Law and lives in Uniontown, Pa., with his u-ife Clare and their two daughters Mary Ann, 6i4, and Cynthia Maureen, SVs- After graduating from Notre ISame, Tom attended the University of Pennsylvania Law School and graduated from there in 1942. He enlisted in the U. S. Na\-y, was commissioned an officer and serv'ed 4 years in the Pacific and Mediterranean. He is now a member of the Naval Rcser\'e with the rank of Commander. la add­ition to his practice of Law, Tom is a State Senator in the General Assembly in Harrisburg for the 32nd Senatorial District. Tom is going to visit the University this summer and I am sure that he will return that \'isit in the summer of '59. 
FRANK R. KELLY b a ph^-sician in Richmond, Virginia, ^vherc he lives w-ith his \rife, Pat, and their five children—Frank R. (Bob) HI, 13 years; Michael, 9; Mary Pat, 7; Reid, 5, and Colleen, 20 months- Frank sees RUSS RILEY, also a surgeon, and BOB SHEFP.ARD who is an insurance man in Richmond. Frank would like to hear from JACK GILMOUR, ED HUGHES and PHIL AULONEY. 
RICHARD A. GANSER, physician and surgeon, lives in Mishawaka, Indiana, with his wife Gladys and their seven children (Doctor, how about send­ing me the names ot your children?). Dr. Richard and BILL HAMBLEY went through Northwestern Medical School together and Dr. Bill is now a chest surgeon in Kentucky. How about hearing from ^-ou. Bill? Dick would like to hear* from CHET GAJEWSKI. AL DENTON, "THE MAD RUSSIAN"—PALANK. PETE N.ANTISTA and GEORGE BASTIAN. 
Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 
VIRGINIA—CongratiJating Joseph J. Muldowney, named Notre Dame Man-of-thc-Ycar at Virginia Club's U.N.D. Night dinner, are former President Charles Morrison and President Charles La Fratta. 
TOM GILLESPIE, JR. lives in White Plains, New* York, Willi his wife Grace and their two adopted diildrcn Mike, 4'/-, and Meg, 2. Tom is Patei.t Counsel in the Scientific Design Co. Inc., New York City. He would like to hear from BOB TUSOX, who is somewhere in New Orleans and who left New York sans permission of the GILLESPIES. For your information Tom, as well as LOU RADELET, the address of BERXIE FEENEY is 31, N. Drexcl Avenue, La Grange, Illinois. I lik- the remark about having a lawyer to take care of your problems, and the quotation "only a fool has himself for a client." Tom would also "like to hear from BILL MURRAY, and in case you want hii address, Tom. it is 107 South Road, Wilmington, Delaware. Thanks, Tom, for the kind words regarding my efforts on behalf of the class. 
JAMES N. CHRISTIANSON lives in Dearborn, Michigan, with his newly acquired wife, Irene, as of February 23, 1957. Jim is connected with the United Foundation of Metropolitan Detroit as Associate Campaign Director in charge of fund raising. He would like to hear from JIM LITTLE. 
HAR\'^Y C. FOSTER is an F.B.I agent in Indianapolis, Indiana, where he lives with his wife Mabel and two sons, John, 15, and Daniel, 14. For some time Har\'ey was stationed in San Francisco, but is happy to return to the Midwest and be dose to Alma Mater. Har\'ey would like to hear from S.-VM C. BOIZILLERI, who is an attorney in W^a^hingtoc, D.C.; FRANK LAX­NIGAN of LaPorte, Indiana, and S. S. FRIED­MAX, of Baytown. Texas. 
FRANK R. PFAFF lives in Cranford, New Jersey, with his wife Rita and thcJr t\vo sons, Frands W. 15, and Richard 10. Frank has been a Computer Tedmologist for Esso Standard Oil Co. for the pjst 18 y;ars and in addition to tliis is teaching at Stevens Institute of Technology as well as working for his Masters degree in Applied Statistics at Rutgers Universi*A-. Frank would like to hear from BOB GALLAGHER, TOM GILLES­PIE and BOB TUSON. 
Have received a note from PAUL V. MURRAY, of Mexico City College, that our own W'ALTER H. JOHNSON, JR., who is Vice President of Ameri­can Airlines, was guest speaker at the Sales Execu­tive Club of Mexico. Walter did a remarkable job ^vhen he was on the staff of tlie Tliird Marine Air \Ving and has sky-rocketed in a few short years from resen.'ation agent to V.P. of American Airlines. 
RAYMOND J. TILLE, JR. of 215 Elm Street, Findlay, Ohio is a practicing General Surgeon and has ihre-; fine >-oangsters, Patrida Ann, II; Judith Anne, 7; rmd Stcphan. 4. The last *39er lliat Dr. Ray ran into was CHARLIE RILEY who is an M.D. in Richmond, Va. It seems to me that w*e stopped at Findlay, Ohio, on the way back from Florida, but it was very early on a Sunday so I am suic, Ray, you will overlook my not calling you at 6:30 or 7:00 in the morning. 
FILVXCIS E. POWERS is a practicing attorney in Oak Park, Illinois, where he resides with His wife, Jessie and has four fine children—Eddie, 12; Sarah Lynn, 9; Timothy Patrick, 5, and ^lelissa Ann, 2. Frank has run into DAN GIBBS and JOHX SULLIVAN and would like to hear from JOHN NHLLER. 
JOE L. ADRIAN is an engineer with Curtiss ^V^ight Corp. and lives at River Edge, New Jersey, w^th his wife Janet and their four diitdren— Joseph, 15; Elizabeth, 13; Terence, II, and Gregory*, 
4. Tlie last *39cr that Joe has seen u-as J. O. SCHULZE of Dayton, Ohio, and the ones Joe would like to hear from arc BOB HUETHER, CHARLIE HAYES, TOM MAHER and TIM BRADLEY. 
J. FRED SIMON, JR. is a manufacturer of household and comm.;rc!al brooms and mops. Fred sa)*s tliat the only new news he has is an addition to thdr family, baby Ralph, 7 months old, which now makes sLx diildrcn in all, the others bdng Diane, 12; Susan, 10; J. Fred III, 7; Mark, 6, and Michael, 3. 
That concludes the news for this issue—^I have the second questionnaires from quite a few men which I will include in the next issue, from GREGORY RICE, JOHX DUNPHY. KEN HIG­BY, DAVE MESKILL, ROBERT BIRKEX­HAUER, JOHN 0»HARA. JIM YOUNG, JIM BURNS, JOHN WDTTERMEYER and a dozen more. 
It would be veri* nice to hear from the ones who have not answered (-ithcr my first or second questionnaire. Whether you believe it or not, I am sure that the other men of our class would like to know where you arc, wlio you married, and what you arc doing, so I again ask you to please send in any information concerning your­self since graduation. 
I tr\- to keep up currently with our ALUMNUS Magazin-:, and if by any diancc you have sent in your second questionnaire and it has not ap­peared as yet, be patient, because I am sure that in the next issue I will be able to clear up all the ones who have already sent tlieir information to me. 
Remember that a year from this summer is our twcntietli reunion and it would be mar\'elous to have as many of the 39crs back as possible. It is not really too so^n to start to make your plans now, because I am sure that your dass ofhcers 
will tr\' in every u"iy to make it a most interesting and eventful week end. 
From the Alumni Oflice: 
On June 1 Duquesne University awarded an honorary degree to BISHOP RUSSELL J. Mc-VIN'NEY of Providence, R.I., who gave the bac­calaureate sermon at commencement. 
Congratulations to publicist BILL OTOOLE of Hutchins Advertising Co. who parlayed his 214­ycar-old son Ko-in and a client's board room into a photo and story that ran in 33 leading dailies and several magazines. 
FRANK R. PFAFF of Cranford, N. J., just received an M.S. degree from Rutgers Universiti*. 
Belated congratulations to JOHN J. AVINTER­MEYER, the first Catholic elected to head the Ontario Liberal Party in Toronto, Canada. 
1 940 J^uiics G. Brown 
625 Madison Ave. 
New York, New York 
James F. Spellman 

1941 
7 East 42nd St. New York 17, N. Y. 

Your secretary has just returned from a wonder­
ful two-week vacation in Florida and Nassau. So, 
if my lines seem to have little coherence, it*5 
because my mind is still in the tropics. 
^Vhilc I was in southern Florida, I made several stops to try to contact some of our alumni; at Boca Raton, I just mijacd FRANK McDONOUGH and TOM NOLAN. However I later talked with Frank on the tdcphone, and if time had per­mitted, I had intended to' double back to Ft. Lauderdale and have a bull session with Frank and DICK WHELAN. You will recall that Dick is with the law firm of Fleming. 0'Br>-an and Fleming, with ofHces in the Sunrise Shopping Center, in Ft. Lauderdale. And what ofHccs they are! Dick showed mc around the entire establishment. I have never seen sudi magnificent places to work; beats anything IVe seen in New York, Dick also in­troduced mc to members of the firm. X can easily understand why Dick likes being in Florida. .Apparently I had also just missed FRANK CAREY, who had just returned to his home town of Kokomo, Ind.. for a brief risit. Dick told me that BOB GORE, N.D. '31, is very active in alumni actirity. Bob owns the Governor's Club, in Ft. Lauderdale. Tlic N.D. alumni of southern Florida held a convention there just a few days before I arrived in that area. So, next year, I'm going to find out all about the convention before I leave the North. An>-way, it was wonderful meet­ing Dick; and a real inspiration to learn that the N.D. boys down there show so much interest in alumni affairs. I had intended to sec HO^VIE KORTH who has a fleet of cargo C-46's at Miami International Airport. Somehow, I had many more things to do than time in which to do them; so, I didn't sec Howie, either. 
ARMAND LOPEZ dropped in my office March 28; he was in town on business. Armand tried to arrange a lunch with JOE GUILTINAN, but was unsuccessful; Joe's wife had just gone to the hospi­tal. Sure hope cvciything turned out all right, Joe. On«- small piece of news from Armand; he said GEORGE RASSAS was buiMing a new show­room for RUBE ^fARQUARDT. Rube is a big Olds dealer in Chicago. Hey, how about a letter. Rube? 
Do you remember CH.\RLES P. O'NEILL from our dass? He was nn A.B. graduate, originally from New Rodidle, N. Y. Time and events have made my memor>' a little hazy, so I had to look up his picture in the DOME. Please, will all of you who read this do the same; and say a prayer for the repose of his soul. Charles died April 7, 1957; I learned about it this week, FATHER THO.MAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., Associate Di­rector of the Notre Dame Foundation will remember him in a mass June 7. It is a sad task to write such news; it is all the more painful to report it over a year late. You can see the importance of keeping in contact with the class sccrctarx*. Your letters dcj*t have to be fanc>', or expertly written; just any old postcard with a note on somebody you have seen, or corresponded with or heard about second hand. That wi.y we can keep alive our contact with N.D. 
That's all I have this time. Better loosen up your pens and send mc some news or we'll fall behind. I'd like to make the October issue of the Alumnus cur big effort. So, please eveiybody write me something. 
From the Alumai Office: 
JOHN J. HANNIG/\N has been appointed 
58 Nntre Dame Alumnus^ August-September^ 1958 
superintendent of the Open Hearth Department of Alan Wood Sttcl Company in Ccnshohockcn, Penn­sylvania. 
1 942 William M. Hickey 
• ^ 3333 West 47th Place Chicago 32, Illinois 
REUNION' REGISTR.\NT SAMUEL GARRO. 

Members of our class who attended the 4th Annual Florida State Convcntiou of the Florida Notre Danie Clubs at the Sea Ranch, Ft. Lauder­dale, Florida, included BILL MADDEN, LEO BURBY, WADE NODA, TOM WALKER, BILL HICKEY, GEORGE RUDOLPH, DICK WHELAN and JOE GORE. 
We all attended with our wives and it was a vcr>' enjoyable affair. 
I recently had an opportunity to visit with MIKE HIKES in his native Las Vegas, ^rike has adapted himself to the western atmosphere verj* u-cll. He has the bo:>tS and the hat and the cow­boy clothes and you would think that he had been there all his life. 
L/\RRY HICKEY writes from Brooklyn that the concrete business is vcr>* good and that he frequently sees BUD CONa\N'NON who now lives at 56 Utica Walk, Breezy Point, L.I., N. Y. Bud and his three children sper.d the summer with Larr>­and his four at the beach. 
JACK LiVDKY writes from Milwaukee with the sad news that NEIL McGVRTY'S five-year-old son was killed by an automobile after the boy ap­parently darted out into the street from behind a parked car. 
Corroboration came in a note from Neil. He uTitcs as follows: "Our son, Robert Charles Mc­Carty, age 5, passed into Heaven on Jfay 13, 1958. He was struck by an automobile while crossing tlic street in fror.t of our house, and u-as killed instantly. TTic Mass of the Angels was sung at Holy Cross Church, Kaukauna, on May 16, and burial was In Holy Cross Cemetery. TIic survivors arc, in addition to the parents, three brothers: Joseph, Thomas and John Michael; two sisters: Mar>- Pat and Ellen Janet; the paternal grand­parents, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph C. ^^cCarty, Kaukauna. and the great-grandmother, Mrs. W. C. Curlcy, Lake Charles, Louisiana." 
Our condolences to Neil and Mrs. McCarty, whose address is 601 ^\''isco^sin Ave., Kaukauna, \\1sconsin. 
194 3 J"''" L- Wiggins 
' '^' ' 4800 Fairlaw-n Dr. LaCanada, Calif. 
REUXIO.V PICTURES 
Anyone who desires a picture of returning 
members of the Class of 1W3 taken at the 1938 
Class Reunions mav obtain one by uTitinj? to 
REUNION' PICTIJRES, BOX 81, NOTRE 
DAME, INDI.-\NA, enclosing a dollar with his 
name, address and class year. 

REUNION REGISTR,\NTS JULIAN ATWATER, JACK BARRY, JIM BAUM­GARTNER, JACK BREHMER, JAMES E. BRE­SETTE, ROBERT BROWNING, ;\NTHON'\' BUONO, TED BURKE, CHARLES BUTLER, LOUI &\RUSO, JAMES R. CLARK, JR., R. W. COLLINS, ROBERT COLLINS, .MIKE COMER­FORD, FR/UCCIS J. CONFORTI, TO.M CONLEY, GEORGE COFFIN, G. A. CURRIER, ROBERT DEGENILVRT, FRED DEWES, RICHARD DILTZ, 
A. F. BUD DUDLEY, JOHN DUNLA\'Y, ROB­ERT J. DUNL<\Y, J. E. DUQUETTE, BILL EARLEY, JOHN EDWARDS, FRED ENGLE­HART, GENE FEHLIG, REV. BEDE FITZ­PATRICK, RAYMOND FLYNN, JOHN F. FOGARTY, WILLIAM J. FRETAGUE, JERO^tE GALNER, JAMES GALLAGHER, JOHN J. GIL­LIGAN, JOE GOEKEN, FREDERICK GORE, JOHN GREENE, DAN HAGAN, DON HALLER, EDWARD HANRAHAN, JOHN HEDGES, HANS HELLAND, DONALD HELTZEL, THOMAS E. HENNEY, EDWARD J. HICKEY, ARTHUR F. HIEGEL, JOE HILLEBRiVND, EDWARD L. HOL­LAND, ^VILLIAM J. HOR.MBERG, OLn'ER HUNTER III, FRANK KAISER, JIM KELLY, RICHARD.W. KELLY, D0. \ KELSEY, DANIEL KLEIN, DON KOTZ, CHARLES KRALOVEC, WALTER KRAWIEC, JOSEPH KREMER, BOB KUIPERS, CLAIR LAMBERT, ROBERT Le-
LA CROSSE—OfGcers of the La Crosse Club converse with Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., guest speaker from the University on Universal Notre Dame Night. From left: Joe Becker, club president; Steve Pavela, treasurer; Father Brennan, and Jim Kroner, vice-president. 
MENSE, R,\Y LENNERTZ, PAUL LEONARD, LEO LINCK, ROBERT Mca\FFERTY, W. T. McCAUGHEY, DICK .McCOR.MICK, JOHN A. McGR,\TH, BRL\N C. McLiVUGHLIN, BOB MADDEN, JAMES .MADIG^W, WILLUM >L-\­HON, JOH.N C. MALONEY, HOWARD MAR­LOW, ROL,\ND MARTEL, HERB MELTON, WILLIAM B. MIDDENDORF, G. V. -MIHOLICH, JOHN R. MILLIM/\N, FETE MORITZ, ROBERT 
G. MUELLMAN, EDWARD MURR,\Y, ROBERT NENNO, JOSEPH NORRIS, REV. RICHARD O'BRIEN, JAMES J. O'DONNELL, CHARLES J. O'LErVRY, ALFRED OLI\'ER, WILLIA-M O'.VEIL, KEVIN OTOOLE, NICHOLAS A. PALELIA, 
-MARK PFALLER, REV. JOHN R. QUINN, ROBERT J. REr\LE, JOH.N F. REGAN, BOB ROGERS, DAVID J. ROLFS, EDWARD C. RO­NEY, JR., JOHN C. RUSSELL, RICHARD SCHEELE, JOHN O. SCHERER, JOHN SCHIND­LER, RrVY J. SCHOONHOVE.V, JOSEPH J. SHERER, BILL STEWART, QUENTI.V STURM, WILLIAM F. SULLIVAN, J. J. SWEENEY, JR., ROBERT SWEENEY, TOM SWEENEY, BOB TINLMERMAN, JOHN TROUP, BILL UNGAS­HICK, R,\LPH J. VINCIGUERR,\, T. R. VOL­BERDING, WlLLIAAt WAELDNER, JACK WAR­NER, JOHN WIETHOFF, JACK WIGGINS, WALLY ZIE.MBA, and GUS A. ZUEHLKE. 
REV. THO.NLVS LEE ATKINS was installed as Pastor of the Nativity of the Blessed \^rgin Mary Parish, Sebewaing, ^IichIgan, on May 12. 
REV. RICHARD J. POWERS, S.J., was ordained to the priesthood by His Eminence FRi\XCIS a\RDINAL SFELLM;\N, LL.D., '33, on June 21 ac Fordiiam University Chapel, Bronx, N. Y. Father Powers celebrated his first Solemn Mass at the Church of the Immaculate Conception, Jamaica, 
N. v., on Sunday, June 22. Well, the 15th Reunion week end has now become history. It was unanimously agreed that it was the best yet. From an attendance standpoint there Is no disputing the success. The Class had 126 registran*. late Saturday afternoon. Not included in the list wcr-: FRS. GEORGE BERNARD and BOB FELTON, both of whom attended the in­formal gatherings in frflnt of Morrissey Hall. Tlie huge success was due to the efforts of BILL E.ARLEY, our tireless Chairman. Bill had a phenomenally successful pizza-bcer party on Friday night and an even more successful cocktail party on Saturday aftcrncon immediately before the Alumni banquet. Bill's well planned program beat other reunion classy by miles; he has set a tough precedent for succeeding chairmen. Spedal tribute should be paid JOHN REG.AN who came all the way from Rio de Janeiro to attend the reunion. He won the prize for the 
attendant who had travelled the greatest distance— it was so contest! GEORGE COPPIN, in from Seattle, would be the ninncrup. The perennial favorite for the prize for the attendant with the most kids, BILL MIDDENDORF, once again cop­ped that prize. And, the special awards department proclaimed FRANK KAISER the hands down win­ner. The fact that the award was a beer mug was strictly coincidental. 
I want to thank the class for the very thoughtful comments on the sur\'cy of the Class. Most especially do I want to thank everyone for the ^fonogram jacket which was presented to me. Here is a reviLW of the highlights of the Reunion week end: The week-end activities began Friday morning when the registrants began arriving. JACK WARNER, the Ivy League official, was one of the first to check in. On Friday night the affair moved into high gear with the pizza party. By this time there were probably about 100 on hand. Amdne those critically sampling the pizza were BUCK MUELLMJV N and his pal, NICK PALELL.A. Nick was there with pictures of his son. Patrick Micael Falella! Also checking in was "Q" STL*R.M, now a radio exec who owns Station WKAB, Mobile, .Ma. 
On Saturday morning FATHER BEDE (FR.ANK) FITZP.ATRICK celebrated the Afass for the deceased members of the Class. His Mass intention also included the Special Intentions of the living, members. Father Bede is en route to a Franciscan installaticn in Japan. Simultaneouslv with Father Fitz's Mass, FATHER JACK QUINN read a Mass on the side altar of the ^forrisscy Hall Chapel. Unfortunately there was no third altar for FATHER DICK O'BRIEN to celebrate a Mass in the presence of the Clais. FATHER O'BRIEN is stationed at a high school in Galesburg, III. FATHER QUINN has just been made paator of St. Bcmadette Parish ic Kansas City's Eastwood Hills. 
Immediately after the Class Mass the Class picture was snap;3ed on the steps of the library. After the Class Mass a small group drove to the grave of GEORGE MURPHY to recite some prayers. The prayers were led by BILL STEWART who was Murphy's roommate in the year George captained tiie football team. Saturday was spent in bull sessions, some beer drinking, golfing, and finally visits to the various colleges on campus. Late Saturday afternoon BILL BARLEY'S crew-set up for the cocktail party—a fabulous success. The Alumni banquet ioUowed. (Special note to Alumni Office) Saturday night, almost immediately after the banquet, the Class of '43 drank the beer well dry. Consequently we had to shift operations to the halls where the older boys had some beer on hand. Although *his was not covered in our survey, we must be put down as a pretty good beer drinking crew. 
Simday morning turned up with a little rain— the only bad weather on an otherwise weather^ perfect week end. Early on Sunday after Mass the group began to head home. As stated earlier all 
Notre Dame Alumnus, AugustSeptemberi 1958 59 
agreed that thb was the best yet. With special thanks to BILL EARLEY, the Alumni Office and their efficient staff of students who worked Mor­risscy Hall, and to FATHER COUR rector of Morrisscy. 
194 4 George BarisciUo 515 5th Ave. Bradley Beach, N. J. 
We really sweated out this column! Un­

fortunately, the May-June edition of the ALUM­
NUS was not off the presses before we received 
our deadline notice for this issue, so we were 
unable to benefit from the usual response that 
follows our never-ending pica for news appearing 
in each column. For the record, our next deadline 
date is September 11. Wc need help, so please 
write. 
JACK AVOELFLE v.-as the "saver" this time. 
Jack dieckcd in u-ith the following report: "Fm 
with Republic AWaiion as Supervisor of the Spares 
Planning and Scheduling Dcpt. Another alumnus, 
JOE HILBERT, is in the same department doing 
an outstanding job.'* 
Tlie Wo?lflcs recently had their third girl, and Jack reports seeing JOHXXY BOYLE around Lcvittown, New York. Johnny is eastern manager for c trucking trade pzpcr. He ako passes along news tliat AL ZOILO is doing very well in an executive capacity with Brooks Bros., clothiers. Among X.D. men at Republic Aviation: JOHN RYAN is vice president; CLIFF LENNOX is pro­duction manager; ED FLYNN is overseas repre­sentative in Switzerland; R. TUOHEY is in charge of Republic's security dcpt.; and LEN DOBBINS (who refcreed many an N.D. football game) is manager of procurement control. Jack sends his best to all and looks forward to our "fifteenth*' next June. 
Speaking of our up-coming reunion, I'd like the cliance to meet this fall ^s'ith any of our men ^vho would like to work (or would be good enough to volunteer to work) on the reunion plans. Naturally, wc arc anxious to get as many of the bo>*s back as possible. And, too, profiting from our experiences at the "5th" and "lOlh" reunions, I think wc can make this *'I5th" reunion next June the greatest yet! At this writing I am planning to be at Notre Dame for the Army and Duke games, and %vould make mysrlf available on Friday, Saturday, or Sunday of citlicr of those week ends to meet with any *'44ers" who might be aroimd and 'would care to discuss reunion plans. Drop mc a note now if you expect to be at N.D. for either the Army or Duke week ends, and want to help with the reunion. 
£\-perience has proven that en football Saturdays there is a general "exodus" out of town shortly after th; game, so I would suggest using the Oliver after the pep rally on Friday night as a general meeting-place for *'44crs" who may be in town early on a game week end. At least that way some might get a chance to see each otlier and renew old friendships. 
Received a birth announcement the other day from south of tlie border. It's nimiber 5 for DICK "CACrUS" LEON ct ux. down in Mexico 
\ —•--•:-'.U 

Harry Stuhldreher, '25, in his capacity as assistant to the vice president of U. S. Steel Ckirp., presents a 30-minute fihn on struc­tural steels in modem architecture to Prof. Frank Montana, head of the archi­tecture department. 
60 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September^ 
JOHN H. DEA, '30 

Last summer John Dea was appointed Assistant to the President of The Texas Company, one of the world's largest oil companies. 
John joined Texaco in 1937 as an in­dustrial salesman in the Minneapolis Sales Division, ha\-ing spent six years with The Masonite Corporation at Laurel, Mississippi. He left in 1942 to ser\'c four years in the Army Air Force, attained the rank of lieutenant colonel and received citations from the Air Force, the British* Government and the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
Upon his return to Texaco John served as Supervising Engineer at Milwaukee, Chief Lubrication Engineer in Denver and from 1952 to 1955 u*as Assistant Manager 
(Industrial Sales) of the Minneapolis Sales Division. 
In November, 1955, he was named As­sistant to the Vice-President in charge of the Foreign Operations Department—^West­cm Hemisphere and West .Africa. The fol­lowing November he became Assistant Man­ager of that Department's Sales Division. 
John was bom in Bemidji, Minnesota, attended parochial and militarj*- prep schools in Minneapolis and St. Paid. Following a year at St. Thomas College he was ma­triculated at Notre Dame in 1927 and finished a Bachelor of Chemical Engineer­ing. He did post-graduate work at the Universities of Minnesota and Wisconsin. He has a brother William J., '32, and a brotlier-in-law, Thomas Green, '33. 
In 1945 he ^\•as married to Miss Beatrice Thickens of Laurel, Mississippi. They make their home at Round Hill Road, Greenwich, 
Connecticut A golfer and all-around sports­man, John is also a book collector, specialize ing in first editions, and for several years has been interested in collecting etchings and lithographs. 
1958 
City. Incidentally, "Cactus" plans to be at N.D. next June for the "15th." Will you be there? From the /Uumni Office: 
J. F. COLLINS has been appointed assistant manager of the Pittsburgh Region of the Electro ^fctalIurgical Co. division of Union Carbide Corp. 
JOHN P. HICKEY, Naticfc, Mass., has been promoted to general manager of the Jordan-Marsh Department Store in Framingham, Mass. 
194 5 ^^^ Lcsmez #-»*# 122TullamoreRd. Garden City, N. Y. 
A WEEK END ^VITH A FORMER ROO.MMATE 
One of the nicest things that can be said about the friendship^ made at Notre Dame is the fact that so many of thorn arc life-long. Last year, my wife Betty and I had the good fortune of spending a week end with my former roommate. PAUL W. SMITH, hb u-ifc Elise. and his lovely family down in Atlanta, Georgia. The visit was described in a past issue of the .\LUMNUS. This past week, wc were fortunate to have the most wonderful week end with the FRED "GODFREY" BREMERS of Silver Spring, Maryland. Wc romped and played with David (6 years old). Holly (4 years old), and Gail {V/z years old). Fred looks vcr>* prosperous and is ver>' happy in his work with the Government Contract Office of the Na\y De­partment. He also has enough time to have a law practice, which keeps him on a mighty bus>' schedule. Tlic captain of the whole group and who deser\'es a lot of credit—like all Notre Dame wives—is Mary Ellen, Fred's wife. Thank you for showing us sucli an enjoyable and relaxing week end. 
NEWS FROM HERE AND THERE JOHN G. BROZO has moved from Mar>land to 104- Lexington Avenue, Ktngsx'illc, Texas. WIL­LIAM T, SANTINI is Secretary and General Council for Santini Brothers Inc., in New York City. He and his wife /Vimee live at 239 East, 5th Street, Mount Vernon, New York. Tlicy have three boys: William Jr. (II), Robert (9) and James (2). Bill has his own private practice as an attorney before the New York Bar. REV. DONALD J. TR^VCEY was ordained to the Holy Priesthood by His Excellency, the Most Rev. William A. Scully, Bishop of Albany, for the Diocese of Lafayette in Indiana. The Ordination took place May 31, 1958, in the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception in Albany, New York at 9 a.m. Father's First Solemn Mass was celebrated on Trinity Sunday, Juae I, in his home parish Church, Saint Patrick's, Albany. The members of his class were invited to join, at least spiritually, with him on this Joyous occasion and he requests their prayers for a fruitful priest­hood. 
Dr. Leo 0*DonnelI, '17 (left), general sur­geon at Pittsburgh's Mercy Hospital, re­ceives an honorary doctorate in science from the Most Rev. John F. Dearden, Bishop of Pittsburgh and Chancellor of Du­quesne University, where Dr. O'Donnell delivered the commencement address. 
LETTERS FRONr DEPARTMENT 
JAMES J. CL\'NES, JR. (1st letter): 
"I received your letter concerning the enrollment 
in the Holy Cross Foreign Mission Purgatorial 
Society. I think it is a good idea and I have 
forwarded some of the material to BILL MOORE. 
"I feci that perhaps the best way to contact the 
individual members would be through vour column 
in the ALUMXUS. 
"I am going to ask Bill that in the future when 
wc do have a member of a classmate's family leave 
this world, that we remember him or her in this 
manner. 
"I haven*t been to Xew York in the recent past, 
but hope that one of these da>*s I will Be 
journeying to New York so that I can get together 
with you and lay some plans for our I960 reunion." 
JAMES J. CL^'NES, JR. (2nd letter): 
" I have uritten to Bill concerning F.\THER 

FITZPATRICK's request and he feels that we 
should contact the Vice Presidents of the class and 
then make a decision. T personally do not feel 
that this is necessary*, but T do not feci we should 

go ahead with anything like this until the three 
of us can get together for lunch some time in 
Nevf York. 
"\Vc have been sending ^fass cards to members* 

of the class mothers, fathers and brothers who 
have recently deceased. Bill tells me we arc paying 
out more money for Mass cards then wc are takini; 
in. He also informs me that our treasury- is not 
being built up and I would aoprcciate a very special 
plea in the next ALUMNUS to our members to 
kindly get their money in. 1960 will be upon us 
before we know it. 
"Tliis ^fass and mission problem is a grave one 

since JIAf ARMSTRONG notiiies me and I have 
to notify Bill, who then is forced to make a 
withdrawal. We both would appreciate it if some­
how wc could withdraw the money once or t^vice 
a year, but since it is an offering for a ^^ass, I 
suppose we can't do it. 
"I will be visiting New York in the near future 

and I will give both of you a call and then we 
can have lunch. 
"In the mcanti;nc would vou kindly make the 

plea for dues in the next ALUMNUS." 
CHUCK SARTORE writes: 
"I am happy to write that T have been working 

with the Ford Motor Co., Memphis Assy. Plant 
as a .Quality Control Engineer since Seotcmbrr. 
1952. ^^^r>•1ynn and DAVE CARTWRIGHT 
spent a few days with us last winter while he was 
in ^femphis on business. He lives in Cleveland. 
Ohio, and thcj* had their sixth child on December 
29th. My wife Jane and T have one boy, Michael 
(15 months) right now, but arc expecting our 
second on Februar>* 23rd. 
"I also received a Christmas card from \TNCE GUSHING last week. Dave called and xsked us to be Godparents (by prox\') of the new boy, Terence Christian." 
From JIM PARIS: 

"You've got me confused! I'm not sure whether I paid dues or ni>t. but I suppose not so I've en­closed a buck. I'd send it to BILL MOORE my­self, but it would take a second letter, and it might just never get done. 
"Don't know how long it's been since I Ixst wrote, so I may be repeating past statistics. Gloria and I have two fine girls, Suzy (314), and Cidy (Yz), but No. 3, expected in October, should be a hoy for the golden dome—at least, I'm hoping 
so. 
"After II years as an engineer, I've accepted an assignment to our personnel department at Lock­heed's Missile Systems Division. I'll be doing out-of-arca inter\"iewing for professional (scientific and engineering) personnel. Tlicy say it takes one to know one, so we'll see. I've just returned from 5 days in Denver, where I picked up a bug, so today I'm in bed here at home. The hotel Doctor there advised against flying back, but I figured if I had to be sick, I'd Just as soon be sick at home as 1000 miles away. It's nothing serious, bronchitis, I guess, but It (and 5000 feet altitude) sure takes the zip out of a guy. 
"I've located another Notre Dame man here at Lockheed—he's ED SAMARIO, in our Flight Con­trols Department on the Pled Piper project. Don't know of :. single Notre Dame man on Polaris, no^v that I'm in personnel. (Plug: send resumes to C. James Paris, Lockliecd Missile Systems Di\isIon, Sunn\'\'alc, Calif.)" 
From Barbara Snec, wife of ROBERT SNEE: 

"Bob was transferred as Asst. Mgr. to Camden store here (206 HJghlrnJ Ave., Haddon Heights, New Jersey) on March 14. The children (Julie, 7; Dick, 5; Bcbby, 3; Mary, 2, and Patty, 6 mos.) and 
EVANSVILLE—^Notre Dame Man-of-the-Year is announced at E%'ansviUe*s Universal Notre Dame Night. From left are Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., director of Holy Cross province development; William T. Fitzgerald, who made the presentation; recipient A. W, (Tony) Cro^vlcy, and Ed Kempf, outgoing club president. 
I flew here Easter Tuesday to move Into our new house. During our move from So. Bend to Mus­kegon, w*e had chicken pox—this time it's the mumps! Never a dull moment. Wc think we'll like li%'ing in the Esst and arc looking forward to seeing some former Notre Dame people who live in this area. 
From the Alumni Office: 

DR. JOSEPH MENEZ, professor of political science at Loyola University, addressed Tc Deum In May at Bloomington, III., on ''How Recent Decisions of the Supreme Court Affect Us." He holds bachelor's, master's and doctor's degrees from Notre Dame. 
194 A J^*^*^ Tenge, Jr. ' ^ 2025 W. Six Mile Rd. Detroit 3, Michigan 
1 94 7 Ja<^*^ ^^^*cs» J^­
• '^ ' 3218 Bcntlcy Lane South Bend 15, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTR.\N*T CHARLES ZITNIK. 

Of necessity, this Issue's pillar is rather short; our news sources are following the pattern of clt>' water systems in the dry summertime . -. just barely dribbling. 
From Bandhura In E^i^t Pakistan's Dacca district comes a note from FATHER FR^\NK McFAR-L^VND, C.S.C., thanking us for helping with the scliool building project Into which BROTHER IVxVN DOLAN, C.S.C., is pouring his energies. 
"It's rcaily a worthwhile project you're helping," Father Frank asserts. *'One side of it is that the Brothers here help to educate the future priests of the Church in East Pakistan. Already wc have over 20 Bengali diocesan and religious priests who arc graduates of Holy Cross Hlyh School, Bandhura. 
"Right now there arc four seminarians studying at Notre Dame—two seniors and two freshmen— who also graduated from here. /\1I are doing very well, I understand .. . a good proof of the fine job the Brothers are doing. 
"As for myself, I've been in East Pakistaa since ordination in 1951. Have been stationed in a lot of places with strange-sounding names, and for tlie last couple years have been here at Bandhura." 
Just at deadline came a note from Brother I\'an with renewed thanks for our help In his building program. 
"The building season for the year is over with the beginning of the rai.is in mid-June," he reports, but I've finished what buildings I had planned for the year—finished but not entirely paid for. 
"Now I sit in hope that we will have no floods this year to cause further damage to the buildings that remain to be' repaired and rebuilt. Come October and we will see if wc have anything in the kitty to allow us to go ahead with the jobs that remain. . .** 
Latest contributian to Brother Ivan's cause comes 
from the pride of Holyokc, ^^ass., JIM REGAN. 
Currently working in the sports department of the 
Springfield Dally News, lanky Jim also was good 
enough to include an extra $2 for the class Mass 
fund. Journalism majors in the class will recall 
he u-as awarded the O'Donnell Medal for academic 
excellence I.T our senior year. 
Our esteemed class treasurer, JOE SHARP, recently won election as president of the northern Indiana chapter of the state association of CPA's; the honor is expected to be the first plank in his platform when he begins his drive for re-election at the 1962 reunion. 
Ne\v addresses arc available for: JAMES T. CAR­LIN; DxWID L. CLIFTON; KELLY F. COOK; PHILIP A. COSTELLO: EDWARD C. CYR; HER­BERT M. DALTON; HENRY A. DELACENSERIE; GEORGE B. DESLOGE; JOSEPH O. E.MOND, JR.; THOM.VS J. FITZPATRICK; JOHN S. FORS­TER; RICHARD J. GOTTSACKER; J.VMES A. HARRIS; JOHN B. HYNES (how 'bout a post card from vou, Flv-Boy?);DAVID F. KORTY; THEO­DORE A. KROELL; EUGENE J. LONG; WALT­ER L. McDERMOTT; DR. CLIFTON E. ^fc-PARLAND; JOHN F. MAHER; BRADLEY L. .\L\NN!NG; ROBERT D. MARKEL; WILUAM 
J. MURPHY; JAMES D. OUTN; ROBERT N. PALLARDY; RICHARD H. PEARSE; BERNARD 
J. RUTLEDGE; THOMAS E. SCHREIBER; VERE 
E. TRINKLEY; DR. ARTHUR L. WAGNER; DR. FRANCIS .\f. ^VALERKO, and ROBERT 
M. WITUCKI. 
J.ACK D. ALEXANDER; WILLUM BUDD; JOHN F. BURKE; JAMES T. CVRLIN; DANIEL DOWNEY, JR.; DR. WILLIAM J. DUNN; ALVIN B. FEUER; DR. ^V1LLL\^I H. GARNER, JR.; EDWARD T. HUPKE; J.AMES R. LONG; JOHN H. MERRYMAN; J^VMES D. OWEN; DANIEL R. POL.ASKI; JAMES E. VANDER­BOSCH, and VERNON R. WINTER. BIRTH BULLETIN: 
A daughter was bom June 1 to Dr. and Mrs. PAUL J. LIBASSI In BufTalo, N. Y., General Hospital . . . and I'm going out on a limb in expressing belief that this is the first girl after three or four boys (if I'm in error, at least that may elicit a message from Paul!) The father is a successful surgeon, and his wife Pat—a polio victim —is the daughter of the late Prof. David L. Campbell of the English Dept. at the University, and-Mrs. Campbell. 
A'fi.'rr Df:mc Ahmr.us, August-September, 2958 61 
REUNION RUMBLINGS "And the last sliall be first. . ." And that was almost the case over Reunion week end, as the ihird-from-the-Iast man in the class (alpliabetically, that is), CHARLES A. ZITNIK, of Park Ridge, 111., was the first and only '47'er who registered. Unfortunately, I didn't get to sec or talk with him. .\t the invitation of '48 Reunion Chairman JOHN L.\UGHLIN (also managing editor of this august publication), your Secretary* cadged a free outdoor (br-r-r-r-r!) seafood bufTct supper June G with that class, so doselv related to ours. Chat­ted with JOE OTOOLE', D.WE SARB, JOHN McCORMICK, JI.M ^VEBB, JI.M MELLO, LEARY KREISSL, GEORGE KENNARD, GERRY HEK­KER, F.\THER REEDY, and several others. It's not too c^^riy to begin thinking about 19G2 and our 15lh, so tell the little woman right now not to plan anything for you the first week end in June of that year. .As you sec. the column is brief, and you arc the only ones who cai alter that situation. Come on, lads: a newsy and interesting class column is the cornerstone of an active class. May I petition our postmaster to have a sturdier mailman put on the route? From the .Mum.ii Office: JOHN C. THOMAS has been named sales promotion manager of the Philip Carey Mfg. Com­pany, Lockland, Ohio. John has been in advertis­ing for ten years, the past three as an account executive. He is married and has four children. 
1 94Q Herman A. Zitt 
635 Belmont Park, North 
Daj-ton, Ohio 
REUNION PICTURES Anyone who desires a picture of returning members of the Class of 1^8 taken at the 1938 Class Reunions mav obtain one bv writing to REUNION' PICTURES, BOX 81, NOTRE DAME, I.NDIAXA, enclosing a dollar with his luune, address and class year. Please specify whether you would like a picture of the morning group, taken after the Class Mass, or the larger noon group, taken after the President's Convocation. 

REUNION REGISTRANTS JOHN C. ABENS, PAUL ADERMAN, JOHN ALLEN, JOHN AMBERG, LOUIS AMBERG, BURTON APKER, EDWARD AYLWARD, EDGAR 
F. BAILEY, BILL BONWICH, THOMAS BRO­GAN, EARL BUSHMAN, LAWRENCE CARR, KENNETH CAVE, JOSEPH CHAPUT, DON CLARK, JAMES CLARK, THOMAS CLIFFORD, HERB COLE.MAN, WILLIAM CO.MSTOCK, ROBERT E. CONCANNON, JOHN D. COONEY, JIM CORCORAN, DON CORRELL, JAMES COSTA, LEO COSTELLO, JOHN E. CRONIN, EUGENE J. DEAN, AN-THONY DiBARI, JOHN M. DiGANN, JOSEPH DiSPIGNO, JAMES DONOGHUE, FRED EARLEY, JOHN ECHEN­RODE, ED ELLIOTT, RUSSELL FARRELL, JOHN FEAD, JAMES FERSTEL, DANIEL P. FESSIA, WALTER FISHER, BILL FITZHARRIS, JOHN FITZPATRICK, ALBERT FUR.MAN, JERRY GASS. BILL GOMPERS, GERARD HEKKER, THOMAS R. HERBERT, JOHN F. HIGGINS, THOMAS M. HIGGINS, MICHAEL HINES, PAT HUGHES, DAN HURLEY, PAUL HUSSAR, BARTON JOHNSON, GEORGE KEE­NAN, NEIL F. KELLY, GEORGE A. KENNARD, JR., ROBERT E. KERGER, TOM KILEY, SAM KITCHIN, BEN KOEBEL, BUD KRALOVEC, LEARY KREISSL, JOHN LAUGHLIN, ROBERT LIVINGSTONE, TOM LOOK, NUX LUDWIG, JOHN LUJACK, JOE LYNCH, THO.MAS R. MANUSZAK, PATRICK MARTIN, JOHN Mc­CORMICK, JOHN McKEON, JIM MELLO, TONY' MISTRETTA, ROBERT MORAN, BOB MURPHY, LEO MURPHY, GEORGE J. NELSON, ROBERT NEWEMAN, ELDON O'BRIEN, ^^'ILLIAM J. O'CONNOR, PHIL OPPENHEIM, JAMES J. O'ROURKE. JOSEPH O'TOOLE, DOMINIC PALERMINI, JOHN PATANE, JAMES PATTER­SON, STEPHEN PAVELA, R. C. PEETS, CHARLES PRESCOTT, JOE QUILL, HAROLD QUINN, JOHN RAUCH, BOB REAL, EDWARD 
L. RECKER, JACK REGAN, JOSEPH RENIN­GER, FRANK RO.MEO, LARRY RYAN, JERRY S.ARB, C. ROBERT SATTI, ROBERT SCHEL­LENBERG, PAUL SCHIRMEYER, EV SCHLECK, GEORGE F. SCHNTJRLE, R. J. SCHOONOVER, FRITZ SHADLEY, PATRICK SHANNON, BEN SHEERAN, LEE SHIPP, ART S.MITH, RICHARD 
BERTRAM L. METZGER, '31 

The BouTnan Dair>' Company of Chicago recently announced that B. L. "Bert" Metzger has been elected to the company's -Associated Board of Directors. 
Bert Metzger ^vas an AU-American guard on the unbeaten Notre Dame football teams of 1929-30. Teammates included AU-Ameri­cans Frank Carideo, Marchy Schwartz, Marty Brill and Jack Cannon. The 1930 team was the last which Knute Rockne coached. 
-An all-out admirer of "Rock," Bert is frequently called upon as a speaker on foot­ball and his idol. He gave an inspiring talk on Rockne, full of anecdotes and personal reminiscences, at the St Joseph Valley Club's 27th Anniversary Rockne Com­munion Breakfast last spring. 
He will continue his duties as Retail Sales Manager of Bo>vman's Chicagoland Fluid Milk Sales Division. 
Bert began his career in the dairy in­dustr>' as a Bowman retail route salesman in 1931. He ^vas promoted to assistant manager in 1935 and became manager in 1941. 
He lives at 674 In'ing Park Road, Chi­cago, with his wife Marian and four chil­dren, Bert, Jr., '55; Audrey, Martha Ann and John Peter. A grandson, Bert Leo Metzger III, %vas bom to Bert, Jr., and his wife in 1957. The Metzgers are members of St. Mar>' of the Lake Parish in Chicago. 
A. STACK, JOHN J. STEWART, ROBERT TAYLOR, HAL TEHAN, GEORGE TOBIN, PAT TRIXLER, R.AYMOND TRIZNA, LAWRENCE TURNER, LEO J. N'ETTER, WALTER J. VOITIK, BILL VOLL, JAMES A. WEBB, WIL­LLAM A. WEILER, JOSEPH ^VILCOX, LARRY WOODS, JOHN WRICHT, and HERMAN ZITT. 
From the Alumni Office: 
REV. FRANCIS J. BUCKLEY, S.J., was 

ordained a priest on June 18 by Cardinal James 
Francis Mclntyre in Blessed Sacrament Church, 
Los Angeles. 
Chapter umpteen of the TOM DOOLEY story: 

Doctor Tom has been making more appeals for MEDICO, look time out in May to give a speech, "That Free Men May Live," at the Uni­versity, sponsored by the Notre Dame Tri-Mililary Council which represents the three ROTC units on campus. Then on May 22 he was guest of honor at a cocktail an-l dinner party given by friends ROGER WHITE, '50, and MARTIN CARROLL at Roger's home in Winnetka. 
Reunion Roundup: Included in the names above arc most of the 48 "National Committeemen" who strove mightily to promote the 10-year reunion and who, with the ten-man local coatmittce, made up our "58 for '58." Wc won't embarrass them by listing their names, but we'd like to take this opportunity to thank each one for his part in making the week end so successful. To TOM HIGGINS of Rochester. N. Y., goes the 1958 Distinguished Service Award. Not satisfied to ride herd on a sizable local delegation, Tom look to the mails and contacted friends in most of the 48. Even from those who were unable to make the week end he collected news and gossip that may feed this column for some time to come. It's impossible to measure his help. ED AYLWARD -vorked vers- hard in Kansas City, Mo. Ed's labors weren't confined to his own class. Total reunion attendance from the K.C. area can largclv be chalked up to him. Special thanks must go to REV. JOHN REEDY, C.S.C., principally for his graciousness in agreeing to be the celebrant of our Saturday morning Memorial Mass for departed members of the Class of '48, but also for the splendid tribute to his classmates in his editorial in the June 7 Ave Maria. Anybody who missed the editorial can write to Father Reedy c/ o Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind., for a back number (subscriptions, at $6 for 52 issues, also gratefully accepted). Incidentally, if you didn't get one of the mourning cards listing the deceased Men of '48 for your Missal, write to JOHN UUGHLIN, Alumni Office, Notre Dame. You'll receive a card in the next mail. While we're handing out bouquets, we might as well bestow an entire battery of special reunion au-ards. Greatest Distance Traveled award must be shared by ELDON O'BRIEN of Eureka, Calif., and BILL WEILER of Oakland, Calif. (We're not going to quibble about a few miles.) Runncrs-up: MIKE HINES and GEORGE SCHNURLE of Las Vegas, Nevada. Entertainment award would go three ways: DICK STACK of Appleton. Wis., who played host to a couple of dozen classmates buzzing Dillon Hall Court in his Bcechcraft Bonanza all day Saturday; FRED EARLEY of Parkersburg, W. Va., for his hot licks on a borrowed accordion; and, for midnight serenading. South Bender JIM MELLO and his volunteer fire department—HERB COLEMAN, JOHN CREE\'Y, JOHN LUJ.ACK, GEORGE TOBIN, etc. Purple Heart: RUSS FARRELL, Kansas City, Mo., for bruises sustained invading the transoms of Alumni Hall, plus numerous victims of shattered glass and iccwater. Handshaking award to HERMAN ZITT of Dayton, C , and HAL TEHAN of Dallas, Texas, who must be planning to run for governor in their respective stctcs. Foresight award to LEO COSTELLO, Patterson, 
N. J., and several others for reser%-ing rooms occupied in days of vore. Conviviality awards to TOM BROGAN, Melrose Park, 111.; JOE LYNCH, Leroy, Mich., and JOE OTOOLE, East Orange, 
N. J. Omnipresence award to PAT HUGHES, Port Clinton, O. Hospitality award to LARRY TURNER, Indianapolis; RED HEKKER, Wood-Ridge, X. J, and others who volunteered their sers'iccs on the soup line, beer bar. etc. Mono­logue marathon award to BOB CONCAN'NON, St. Louis, Mo., with keen competition from JOE WILCOX, Albion, Mich., Brogan, Lj-nch, O'TooIe and a dozen others. A D.S.C. for bravery to BURT APKER of Chetek, Wis., and anyone else who brought his offspring. Special fcllowsliip awards should go to JIM FERSTEL, JOHN HIG­GINS, STEVE PAVELA and several others. Some sort of consolation award is in order for the many who filled up on shrimp cocktail, cheese, fruit, pie, petitfours and assorted salads in the chill of the Friday night buffet before the French-fried shrimp, lobster tails, scallops and fish Newburg entree arrived. It's all right, fellas, but did you have to cat tlie carnations? 
It's a shame space won't permit the listing of awards merited by another hundred brethren, in­cluding bridge, golf and poker, in w*hicli our lads excel. We hope you'll make up for this by keep­ing in touch with one another and this column to 
62 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 
" 
Itecp up the friendships, enthusiasm and class spirit generated by this oncc-in-fivc-years affair. 
For those who have been tr>-ing to figure out which state led in M8 attendance, the answer is Illinois with 26 registrants, followed by Indiana with 19, Ohio with 14, New Jersey and Michigan with a dozen apiece. New York with 10, Wisconsin with seven; Pennsyh-ania, six; ^^issouri, four; Con­necticut, three; Texas, District of Columbia, Nc\-ada and California with two each; Minnesota, Rhode Island, Colorado, Kentucky, West Virginia, Okla­homa, Delaware, Florida and Iowa each repre­sented by one delegate, 
1949 John Walker 826 Wing St. Elgin, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTR/VNT JOSEPH P. HALLER. 
From the Alumni Office: Because most of his classmates are in this class, JAMES P. ROTCHFORD, M.D., has asked to be transferred to the Class of *49. Jim is at present in a Dcrmatological residency* at University Hospital, 303 E. 20th, New York 3, New York. He was married July 3, 1954, to ifary Touhey Cooney of Augusta, Ga. ^^ar^• has two brothers, William, *51, and John, '56. Jim has ser\-ed notice that he intends to make the 49ers' lO-year reunion next June. EDWARD J. MEHAN has joined the All-State Insurance Co. as a clolras adjuster and will work out of the South Bend district claims office. JAMES E. BURKE was graduated from the University of Detroit College of Dentistry*, June 12. 
1 950 Richard F. Hahn "'' ^ 6930N. Odell Chicago 31, Illinois 
From the .Vlumni OfEce: JOHN T. BONNOT has been appointed super­intendent of labor relations at the Columbus, Ohio, plant of Tile Timken Roller Bearing Companv. WILLIAM E. NHLLER has been named as an agent for the Slate Farm Insurance Companies in South Bend. 
I 951 Robert J. Klingenberger 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. AVayne, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTRiVNT WILLIAM T. HUSTON. 
Again we have a shortage of news, but I'll report what I have and hope it may nioti\*atc you to just drop a post card indicating where you are living, what you are doing, and a family sketch. 
BOB NICKODEM, 2739 N. 26ih street, Slicboy­gan, Wisconsin, writes that lie and his wife at­tended UND night at ^tilwaukee and saw J.-VCK WILKINSON, who Is working for Universal In­sulation in Slilwaukce. and his wife. Jack re­ported that BOB HOFF is working for the West Bend Aluminum Co. Jn West Bend, Wisconsin. (HofT is married and has one child.) Bob also saw RALPH SCHULTZ with his wife, and Ralph is practicing law \vi:h a firm located In downtown Milwaukee. Also, Bob reported seeing TOM SNY­DER, still single, who came down from Oconomo­woc, and JIM BRISKY, who is with Power Products Co. in Grafton, Wisconsin, and h'S wife. The dis­cussion centered around a comTion interest—name­ly Jim's four children and Bob's like amount. Bob further reports that he has been kept busy by sup­plementing his Trust Officer's duties with offices in the local Jaycees, Infantile Paralysis Foundation, Bankers A. I. B. group. Holy Name, etc. Thanks, Bob, for all the good news. 
JOHN MOORE is losing his roommate in July, when LEO BRENNAN marries Barbara Ann Couz­cns In Detroit. Congratulations, Leo, we all wish you a long married life. 
FRED TUCK, ID904 Parnell, Chicago, Illinois, was In Fort Wayne lo compete in a bowling tourna­ment and gave mz a call. Fred has two boys, Freddy and Tomm/, and is selling Buicks. 
TOM CARROLL is Sales Manager for Dumorc Co. and had a son on December 27th, named Charles James. 
1952 ^"^^ ^' ^"*^ 
Board of Trade BIdg. 
Wheeling, West Virginia 
G. THO.MAS TRANTER has recently moved to 
IWHTfllUlllllllS 
WLLIAM N. McCORMICK, '34 
Lanolin Plus, Inc., Chicago cosmetic firm, 
recently announced the appointment of Bill 
McCormick, director of foreign sales of the 
International Cosmetic Division, as a \-:cc 
president of the company. 
A foreign commerce graduate. Bill has 
followed through on his training and has a 
long and interesting background in the field 
of foreign trade, as suggested by the picture 
above, procured by his company from a 
passport. 
Regional director for Sterling Products In­
ternational in Sao Paulo, Brazil, from 1945 
to 1949, Bill left to become export sales 
representative for a number of prominent 
American manufacturers. Just prior to join­
ing Lanolin Plus, he was director of the 
E.\port Management Division of Dayton, 
Price & Co., Ltd., New York City. 
Since 1956 he has been in charge of all 
Lanolin Plus business outside the United 
States, as well as all militar}- and govern­
ment sales. 
After graduation and before World War 
II Bill was a newspaper reporter and then 
managed national advertising for a number 
of papers. In 1941 he enlisted in the army 
as a private, rising to the rank of Lt. Colonel 

after five years' ser\"ice, including two years 
in Europe. He sened in combat infantr>-, 

militar)- intelligence and militarj- govern­
ment, and was attached to the British forces 
for six months. 
The McCormicks live in Western Springs, 

111., a Chicago suburb, with two children, 
Nicholas, age 15, and Maureen, 14. 
Bill spends about a third of his time trav­eling in Europe and Latin America. When he's home he spends as much time as pos­sible at golf, tennis and swimming. 
Elmira, New York, and is now associated with RockwclI-Gould Company, Inc. He now has two children, both boys. GEORGE GL^VSSER and DON PIERSOX are now out of the 3er\-icc and presently arc engaged in an electronic data pro­cessing scrx'ice for business and industry. George has two children aad Don is still single. 
JOHN MINE graduated from Stanford in De­cember with his Master's in engineering administra­tion and is presently working with Heweltt-Packard in Palo Alto, California. BOB BLIGH, now living in Ncwburg, New York, is working for the National Cash Register Company as an .-iccounting machine salesman. DICK and PAT STUBBING are now-located in Rochester, New York, and are quite proud to announce the birth of their second child, Richard Anthony, Jr. 
I have received ver>- little in the way of class news during the pa^t few months, but hope to have a questionnaire printed and sent to all members prior to the next i:;sue. 
From the Alumni Office: HUGH D. SCRKDLE has been awarded a fellow­ship for the 195.1-59 academic year in Stanford University's special graduate program in the hmnan­•ties. RENE P. AUDETTE has been awarded a math­ematics fellowship by the General Electric Educa­tional and Charitable Fund for summer study at Rensselaer Polvtechnic Institute. JOSEPH HENRY PARKER was ordained as Rev. Damian Joseph Parker, O.S.B., by His E-xcellency John P. Cody, Bishop of Kansas City-St. Joseph, May 27, at the Basilica of the Immaculate Con­ception, Conception, Missouri. He celebrated his First Solemn Mass June I at St. Francis of Assist Church, Louisville, Kentucky. 

1 9S 3  Thomas W. Reedy  
* '"'  *  337 Wagner Road  
NorthGcld,  Illinois  

REUNION PICTURES Anyone who desires a picture of returning members of the Class of 1933 taken at the 1938 Class Reunions mav obtain one bv writing to REUNION PICTURES, BOX 81, NOTRE DAME, INDIA.N'A, enclosing a dollar with his name, address and class year. Please specify whether you would like a picture of the morning group, taken after the Class Mass, or the larger noon group, taken after the President's Convocation. 

REUNION REGISTR.ANTS JACK ALLESSANDRINI, JOE ANGEL, TON-Y ANTHONY, DAVE AUGSBURGER, JIM B.ARRY, LOUIS G. B.ASSO, RAY BAYLESS, ROBERT BERNER, JR., WILLIAM BERRY, CHUCK BILLERBECK, .MAYNARD BISSONTJETTE, J.AMES BLACKBURN, ROGER BL.ATZ, GEORGE 
E. BLUEAUGH, LOUIS BOURJAILY, JR., JIM BRITT, DAVID BROUGHTON, JOHN C-A-M­P.AGNONE, J. THOM,VS CANTtt-ELL, DON CARBONE, JOHN M. CARROLL, JR., LOUIS &\V,\NAUGH, JOHN CL,\RK, D.ANIEL COL­LINS, THOMAS COLLINS, EDWARD CONDON, JERRY CONNORS, FRANCIS COREY, JOE COSTANZO, D.WID CO ST I G AN , JA.MES COYLE, CHARLES CROWLEY, ED CULKOW­SKI, E.MORY A. D.AKOSKE, JOHN D'ANIERI, ROBERT DEAK, EDWARD D. DeBOER, JOHN 
E. DeCOURSEY, WILLLUf DeCRICK, WILLIA-M 
J. DE.MPSEY, JOE DESAUTELS, JOHN DILEN­SCHNEIDER, DONALD K. DORINI, RICHARD DOUGLAS, ERNIE DUPR.AW, DAVE EARDLEY, JAMES R. EHINGER, GERALD ELLSWORTH, JOHN ENDERS, EDWARD E. EVERLY', CHRIS­TI.AN FALKENSTEIN, GENE FANTVING, PAUL 
R. FARMER, JR., J.ACK FINK, R. W. FISCHER. JOHN FISH, JAMES FOLEY, TO.M FOOTE, DAVID W. FOX, PAUL GABLER, JAMES F. GALLAGHER, BOB GLEASON, MIKE GOD­FREY, EDWARD GR.AH.A.M, JERRY HAMMES, DAN HARDIN, PAUL RARRINGTON, RICHARD 
B. R\RVEY, JOHN HASTINGS, ARTHUR HENKEN, FR.ANCIS HENTJIGAN, HUGH HENRY, DICK HERRMAN-N, B;:RNAR D HES­TER, HER.M.AN HOFF.MANN, JOHN W. HOUCK, MICHAEL HUSSEY, JAMES HUTCHINSON, FRANK JACK^LAN, D.ANIEL JAMES, JOE J.A­SINSKI, CHARLES JOLIE, WLLIAM KE.ANE, GERRY KEELEY, JERO.ME W. KELLY, MORT KELLY, WILLIAM KELLY, JA.MES R. KEOGH, TIMOTHY KETT, LOUIS KOSSE, LOUIS KRAFT, JOHN R. LAKE, ROBERT E. LEE, LEN LeROSE, EUGENE LITTLE, .ALBERT LOHM.ANN, GERALD McCABE, ED McCARTHY, 
JAMES .MCCARTHY, RICHARD R. MCCON­NELL, JOHN MCCOR.MICK, GEORGE Mc-COURT, JOSEPH MCD.ADE, BERNARD Mc-DER.MOTT, JOSEPH McINERNEY, WTLLIAII .MCKINSTRA, CHUCK McMAHON, LARRY -Mc-NALLY, THOM.AS McNAMAR.A, MIKE Mc-NULTY, REV. JOHN R. MADDEN, JAMES J. .MALOOLY, JOHN MANIX, GERALD MAR-
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 63 
SHALL, DA%aD >URTIX, JOHN MASON, HENRY .\JASS.\L4N, BORIS MEHOFF, JOHN MITCHELL, RICHARD MOLOKIE, PAT MONT­ROY, TOM MORSCH, AMLLIAM MOTZEL, PATRICK E. MULRONEY, J. T. MUL\aHILL, DANIEL F. MURPHY, THOMAS C. MURPHY, ^V'ALLACE NEYERLIN, DANIEL NOE, THO.^fAS NOURIE, JAMES O'BRIEN, JOHN T. O'BRIEN, JOHN M. O'CONXELL, EDGAR O'CON^NOR, EDWARD O'CONNOR, FRANK O'CONNOR, JEROME O'CONNOR, JOHN J. O'CONNOR, DAVE OGREN, DAVI D 0'LE.ARV, BOB O'NEILL, NEIL O'REGAN, JOHN O'SHAUGH­NESSY-, JOE PAGLIARI, JAMES PATTERSON, JOHN PECK, RICHARD J. PETRARC\, JAMES PFEIFFER, JOHN R. POWERS, BERT PROBST, TOM REEDY, JAXfES J. RIHA, BILL RILEY. DONALD ROSS, JOHN ROY, PAUL RUPP, JR.. ROBERT W. SCHAEFER, THOMAS SCHAEFER. GEORGE SCHILLI.XG, JOHN SCHMIDT, JOHN SENG, JOSEPH M. SHANNON, THOM.AS SHEA, HARRY K. SICKLER, JAMES SILK, JERRY SMITH, DAVID L. SPONSELLER. JOSEPH STADLER, KE.\NETH G. STR\D, JR., CHUCK STIM.MING, JOH.V W. STOEPLER, ROBERT STRALEY, WALTER F. STUHLDRE­HER, WILLLAM STUHLDREHER, GE.\E SUL­LI\'AN, HAROLD SWEET, JAMES THULIS, FRANK H. TR.AUP.M.AN, ROLAND TRE­HEARNE, THO.MAS TUBBS, GERRY VOIT, ROBERT W. W.AGXER, ROBERT WAGNER, JOHN H. W.ATHEN, MARTIN WEHNER, CHARLES WILSON, RICHARD WOLFGRAM, LEONARD WOLNIAK, JEROME YENTZ, TOM YOUNG, ROBERT ZIER, and CLAUDE ZUBA. 
From the .Alumni Ofiicc: 

DR. P.AXOS D. BARDIS, associate professor of sociology* at Albion College, Albion, Midiigan, has recently published several articles on family socio­logy" and courtship patterns in professional journals and has identified a geometrical figure and stated a new theorem In a mathematical review. A writer of poetrj", short stories and reviews in his spare time, he has recently published a novel, Ivan and Artemis (sec "Books"). 
ROBERT A. HOODECHECK w-as graduated from the Georgetown University School of Law, June 9. He was a member of Phi .Alpha Delta law fralcmily and was elected senior class delegate to the House .if Delegates of the Student Bar .Asso­ciation. 
CLAIR O. TRINKLEY was transferred recently from Wright-Patterson Air Force Base In Ohio to the Air Force Ballistic Missiles Office at Inglewood, California. He will scr\*e as an attorney for the Procurement Planning Branch of BMO, which is in diargc of the Atlas, Titan and Thor missiles. 
How did the reunion go? Here's how TOM FOOTE reported It In his newspaper column: What happens when a college class gets together for a 5-ycar reunion? 
Well, evcr^'one has a big time, I'll assure you. 
I returned the other day from a reunion of the Class of 1953 at the University of Xotre Dame. 
From all parts of the country- we came to assemble under the Golden Dome just as in the days of yore. 
A total of 192 members from our class of around 1,000 were on hand. Meeting old college ch unis after five yc^rs was an educaticn in itself. 
Some oX the feJlows undcnvrul great "sacrifice" to attend tlie big shindig. One young man passed up his fiancee's graduation to be present. Another left a wife back in Buffalo, X. Y., who was "expecting any minute.** as he put it. 
"She insisted I come,'' he explained. *'Said I'd be miserable if I missed the reunion waiting around the bouse for a baby that might not come.** 
* ••• * 

The most amazing part of the reunion? Be­coming friends with many classmates whom we never knew in four years on campus. {One of the repercussions of being in a big class.) 
Wliat happens to a class after five years on the "outside*'? Here's a quick rundo^vn on mine: 
1, About two-thirds of the guys arc married. The oilicrs say they're still "looking for the right girl." 
2, A surprising number are still in law school or taking graduate studies. 3, Nearly everyone is satisfied with his job but "looking for a better one" someday. 4, Xo one has really changed too much except for a few pounds here and there. 5, E\'cjyoDe promised lo be on hand in five years for the 10-year reunion. 
* * * 

WASHINGTON—Principals m Washington Club's Universal Notre Danie Night include: 
(I. to r.) Valentine B. Deale, chairman of the board of governors; Father Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., guest from the University; Joseph Kuharich, board member and Man-of-thc-Year; Virgil Exner, main speaker, ^-ice-president in charge at Chrysler Corp., and Jack McGrath, 
club president, who presented Father Joyce with a check for $1,500 to establish a "living chair" at the University. 
ions, we had a busy schedule during the 2-day gct-togetlicr. 
\ special address by the REV. THEODORE HESBURGH, university president; a Mass for alumni; and an alumni banquet %verc among the highliglits. 
In his speech. Father Hcsburgh welcomed us back, then spoke in glowing terms of plans for the "Notre Dame of the Future.** 
"One of the tragedies of my life is that I entered the priesthood to get away from money, finance, and the world of business," Father Hes-burgh said. 
*'X*ow I find myself faced with tr>*ing to balance a $16,000,000 budget and embarking on a $66,000,000 building program," he joked. 
The future empliasis at Xotre Dame will be strictly on quality. Father Hesburgh explained. 
It's no secret that the university is becoming highly selective, so much so that eacli year thou­sands of applicants are turned down for admission. 
The enrollment is being levelled off around the 5,500 mark to avoid mass-production education. 
Football coach TERRY BRENNAX reflected the pre\'alcnt attitude among alumni at the banquet that night. 
"I*m glad I went to X'otrc Dame when I did," Brcnnan said. "I don't think I could get in now.'* 
19S 4 George A'. Pflaum, Jr. 
• ^^ ^ 1705 Harvard Blvd. Dayton 6, Ohio 
.As one of the reunion classes next June, we all have a lot of work to da. 1 plan a trip to the .Alumni Office this rummer to get an outline of the complete program of the reunion week end and also some hints based on their experience on how to organize such a week end. I'll be counting on all of you for full cooperation by attendance, corre­spondence aimed in my direction, and any sug­gestions that you can offer me. I plan to send you eaclt a newsletter this summer passing on the Information that the Alumm Ofiicc has for me. I ask for your careful attention to it and that you begin to lay now your plans for attending our reunion next June. 
In order to make it the week end that it can be, the mail is going to have to be heavier than it has been In the past. This report, I am ashamed to say, is the smallest cfl'ort that w*c have had yet. Remember: "Tills column depends upon its friends." BOB CHICKEY of 1220 Belle\-ue. Ridimond Heights 17, Missouri, sends on the following: 
"I have just a small suggestion on our coming reunion. I thought possibly, George, we might get a little better turn out if 'wc had coordinators In some of the bigger cities. The coordinator would contact his fellow class graduates during the next year in his city and try and get them all on the bandwagon for a big reunion turn out. It's just a suggestion that might help, and l*d be glad to do the coordinating around St. Louis. Any help you might need, let me knoiv. One last word, George. Judy and I were the proud parents of a red-headed bahy girl on the 18th of December, her name Is Mary Ellen. Tliat's It for now, if I can be of any help oi> the coming reunion, let me know." 
Bob, I think your plan sounds excellent and ask for the cooperation of others in the large cities as you have outlined. My mail box is open to volun­teers. 
You'll all be interested in the following in­formation recsivcd on a ver>* formal, engraved t^iic stationary*. 
"Mr. and Mrs. Sanford \\'illiam Ladio imite you to offer with them the Nuptial Mass at which their daughter, Marie Georgia, will be united In marriage to Jtr. MILTON JOSEPH BEAUDINE, Saturday, the fourteenth of June at ten-fifteen o'clock. Saint Tliomas Churcli, Twenty-one seventy North Edward, Decatur, Illinois." 
From 29712 Spring River Drive, Birmingham, Michigan, Jo Ann and CHARLIE O'NEIL report that "we had twins!" The big event was April 26 as Cris Lynn and Kaihy Ann arrived to make it three girls for the O'Ncils* to date. On March 10, Gregory Francis joined JACK PITTAS and Elaine In Washington. 
Excuse my brevity but thete is nothing more to say. With my change of address as noted above, maybe the mail you aren't sending is being lost or not forwarded. 
From the Alumni Oflicc: DAVID ^V. DELKER received a Bachelor of La%\-s degree from Georgetown University, June 9. 
JOSEPH L. GOEBEL w:a5 recently promoted to accounting assistant by Indiana Bell Telephone Com­pany, Inc., in Indianapolis. 
JAMES E. HAMLIN^uTccIvcd an M.B.A.. from. Cornell University's Graduate School of- Business and Public Administration June 16. 
REV. RICHARD F. KEEGAN was ordained by the Most Reverend Bishop Jolin P. Treacv* at Holy Cross Seminary, LaCrosse, Wis., May 24. He celebrated his First Solemn Mass on Pentecost Sunday, May 25, in St. Mary's Church, Richland Center, Wisconsin. 
CHARLES KELLER received an M.A. in English from the Brown University Graduate School June 
2. His thesis compared medieval religious drama with the liturgy of the Church. 
Seven members of the class were graduated from the Georgetown Univcrsitv School of ^^edicine, June 9: DR. FIL\NCIS C. DONOV^\N, who plans to intern at Jackson Memorial Hospital, Miami, Florida; DR. EDWARD E. MAHER; DR. JOHN 
D. MALFA, who will take his Internship at Merc\' Hospital In Buffalo; DR. THOMAS G. NEUMAYR, who has been accepted as an intern at the Southern Pacific General Hospital, San Francisco; DR. HAROLD F. REILLY, JR., who intends to intern at St. Vincent's Hospital, Worcester, Mass.; DR. THOMAS J. WATERS, an ouUtandIng graduate. 
Besides mucli handshaking and many bull ses­
64-Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 
who will intern at the GcorRctown University-Hospital in Washington, and DR. KARL A\7£. NEKEj who intends to take his Internship at the University of Chicago Clinics. 
Another new M.D. is DR. EDWARD S. BUSH, who was graduated from the Western Reserve School of Medicine, June 11. 
DR. ERNEST B. JANKOWSKI received his M.D. from the Indiana University School of Medicine, June 9. 

PROF. RAYMOND J. STITH, assistant pro­fessor of civil cnginctring' at the University of Dayton wilt become assistant to the dean of engineering this September. 
1 95 5 'r*^°"*=^ ^- O'Mallcy 
6738 Kenwood Kansas City, Mo. 

Well, Gentlemen, it's that time again, and I hope that the news to folloiv will be well received and do its part to bring you up to date. One thought before I start. Practically cvcrx- letter that I receive contains requests for addresses of grads that have all but dropped out of sight. Tliesc letters also mention how interesting it is to read the names and news that have been sent in by the people who took the time to keep me up to date. I've got a plan. Let's not make it necessary for any grad to write for information about other classmates. We can do it by writing now and making sure that we have some news about cver>'­one. Simple? It only takes a two-cent post card, preferably a letter. Gracias. 
I had a ver\* enjoyable two-man reunion with JOE NASSIF who is stationed at Fort Leonard SVood. Mo., and who came into Kansas City for a week end. If we all have as good a time at the class reunion as Joe and I did that weekend, it should be well worth the little effort it takes to attend. Joe has the enviable job of training recruits and has begun to look a little like a mother hen. He mentions that JACK CUDDY is also stationed there. This is a good time to mention that anyone passing near or through the Kansas City area can find me tn the phone book. 1*11 be waiting to hear from you. CHUCK LUCKETT and his wife are now living in Marion, III. Chuck recently returned from the Army having spent some time in Europe. Glad to have you back, Chuck. JACK TOKAR is back working for the Texas Company after spending six months in the Army. He now hangs his hat in New York City and "I'm sure would be happy to act as an unoflicial guide for any vi:iting N.D. firemen. Word filters down that JOHN O'SULLIVAN is married but names and places arc still unknown. Let's hear from 
you, John. Again I'm going to use the "WHAT EVER ILXPPENED TO " section and no reasonable offer of information will be refused. WHAT EVER HAPPENED TO: FR^VNK LANE, HENRY KRIENKE, TOM ROME, BOB MORRISON, ED DEMPSEY, GEORGE ROONEY, BOB BURNETT, MAURIE REIDY, CHRIS LARSEN, JIM DE­LINE, TIM GARVEY. LEE NEMECHEK, and HARRY NIEMANN. Sound ofT, gentlemen. TI.M NORTON and his wife Ann had their second child on April 20th. This one is Michael Curran and the number one son is Charles. Tim is working for Proctor and Gamble in Los Angeles. Ever>* year on my birthday I never fail to hear from MIKE COSTELLO and this year was no exception. Mike sent a card that said, *'Ever>' mortician joins mc in wishing you still another Happy Birthday." He didn't include any pertinent infonnation about himself but I assume that he's still in the Na\y and enjoying it as much as ever. Thanks again, Mike, I apprccriate it. .\ welcome letter arrived from the land of the rising sun anti contained greetings from SKIP REINER. He's stationed at Camp Zama, Japan, and is due to return to the states in about three months. Shortly after that, he'll be released back into the cold and cruel. From the way he talks. I'm sure he's looking forward to it. Skip would like to hear from BOB RONEY, IL\LPH SMITH, SAM SCHARBER, BILL SCHAEFER, DON LVNSPA, and Dx\N KISZKA. He suggests that tliey use his home address. /\s a matter of fact, use my home address and let me in on the news too. The news to follow is from Skip's letter. PAUL DEFIES is also stationed at Camp Zama and thinks that Japan is ichi-ban. TOM QUINN served some time as PIG officer in Korea and re­ceived his discharge in Japan. He's now working as a correspondent with the Pacific Stars and Strips and makes his headquarters in Tokyo, Japan. TOM REYNOLDS and MIKE MOVER are sta­tioned at Camp Drake on the outskirts of Tokyo. BOB KUNZE married the former Miss Rita 
FORT LAUDERDALE—Conferring prior to Lauderdale Club's UA-D. Night banquet are, from left, Charles Bachman, 47, former Notre Dame All-American; Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., '37, executive vice-president of the University, and Club President Frank McDonough, '41. 
Sengcr on May 10th in Ridgcwood, N. J. Con­gratulations and best wishes to them both. JOHN HARTIGAN sends word from Chicago and North­western University Law School that all goes well and that the news about Vassar was a mistake. I'll have to check by news sources more carefully John received his degree from the law school in June along with ED SCOBY, BOB GOSDICK, and TOM 0\REY. It seemed a long way oft three years ago didn't it, John. BILL TICE is working in Chicago for Standard Oil of Indiana. 
D.\LE HARPER certainly did more than his share to bring me up to date on many grads tliat haven't been heard from in some time. Dale is a teacher-coach at the McKinlcy elementary school in South Bend. Tlie news to follow is from his letter. S.\M BUDNYK is stationed with the 1st .Marii.e Division at Camp Pendleton, Calif. He was previously stationed in the Far East and expects his discharge in December. JOHN HOSINSKI, after a stint with the Na\y, is now attending graduate school at the University of Illinois. He's Working for a Master's degree in Recreation. ED CZUPPA has been discharged from the Army and is doing some substitute teaching in Milwaukee. Hr hopes to start full-time teaching next fall. CLEM URBANSKI, after sci^'ing his lour with the Army, is now working as a teacher-coach at Pierre Na­varre Jr. High in South Bend. Clem h married and has two children. Also in the South Bend area is BOB HANRAILVN who is coaching at Madison Jr. High. WALT KACZMAREK is living in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, and is doing some teaching there. a\ S KROPKOWSKI is liWng in New Jersey and is working for the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad as a detective. Cas is married and has three children. DICK GABERIK is stationed at an Army radar post somewhere in the Los Angeles area. FRANK BUSBEE is at the University of Southern California working on his Ph.D. TOM MEGLEN is working on th:: staff of a hospital in the Pitts­
burgh area. HUGH WILSON is a leaclier-coach at St. Francis High School in Petoskey, Mich. He's married and has a cliild. FRED TURNER is studying Physical Tlicrapy at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. He's married and also has a child. NORM COOK is working as a sales trainee ^vith the Torrington Engineering Co. in South Bend. 
MIKE KELLY sent a post card from ^fadrid where he was spending a three day pass courtesy of the Air Force. Rx\NDY &\RLL married the former Afiss Mariljti Weber on Feb. 22nd at the chapel, Naval Receiving Station, Washington, D.C. Congratulations and best wbhes are again in order. They're now living on Formosa, where Randy has a two year hitch ahead. 
WILAT EVER HAPPENED TO: PAUL MINNICH, DICK McVEIGH, JOE HAYDEN, D.WE NOL/VI'.', FRED THO.MAS, PAT SWEE­NEY. RUDY Hx\MMOND, DICK DEICH.MANN, RON AUER, KALEEL SALLOU.M, JIM MON­GELLO, DON YECKEL, LOU HUBER. DICK BARNETT, and PAUL SOWA. 
JIM STEVENS wrote to bring mc up to date 
on the class news In Detroit and surrounding area. 
Jim was released from the .^rmy t^vo days after 
Christmas and is now going to night school and 
working as a life undcr^vriter for the Massachu­
setts Mutual Life Insurance Company. As Jim 
puts it, **Have policies, will travel." His letter 
contained all the news to follow. JIM KORTE is 
working for Kelscy Hayes Co. in the purchasing 
department. PETE SUTHERLAND and ED 
BORUS are still in the Na\y. Pete is cruising the 
Atlantic and Ed is using suntan lotion in Hawaii. 
STEVE SURBROOK is working for the Detroit 
Bank and Trust Co. NEIL MASON is the mana­
ger of a Plymou'Ji agency and he and his wife, 
Mary Jane, are expecting their third child soon. 
They now have two girls. R\RVE MUELLER 
still hangs his hat at the Parke Davis Co. 
\VALT McKENN.\ ts ^vorking for a public account­
ing firm in Detroit and he and his \rife, Betty, 
are the proud parents of twins—one of each. DICK 
CONDIT and his wife are expecting to set a third 
place at the table in May or June. JOE SMITH 
and JIM CAHILL are also working in Detroit 
but I'll need them to yyritc me and put in a 
plug for the employer. TOM SCHREITMUELLER 
is working for Pontiac Motors. MIKE HEGARTY 
is stationed with the Air Force in Ohio and is 
doing some legal w*nrk. RON KUEBER is working 
for Ford and it's a shame I didn't kaow it, Ron. 
I could have used some inside help on my recent 
purchase. Remember, you auto buy now. 
LEO C.ALLAGHAN %vrites that it's good to be a civilian again after ser\'ing with the Marines. Know what he means! Leo married the former Miss Joyce Irey on the 25lh of January this year and is now working for the National Cyanamid Company in New York City. He mentions seeing STEVE REBORA in Yokasuka, Japan. Steve had just been assigned to a destroyer for eighteen months and was wondering if it all was worth it. JACK CONNOLLY is no%v living in Chicago and is work­ing for ^Vestern Electric. Jack and his wife have livo youngsters. BOB GORDON and his wife, Sally, have a little girl about a year old. Bob has been doing some auditing work. RON RENE and his wife, Betty, are now living in Bristol, R.I. They were married on February 1st of this year. Congratulations and best uishes, ^fr. and Mrr. Rene, and Betty, please keep your husband as regular with his letters as he has been In the past. It'j a big help. PAUL MARB.ACH has just hit the st:ites on the U.S.S. Roosevelt and was going to look up JIM EHRET who is stationed at Quonset Point, R.I. JOE KE.\RNEY and JOHN KENNEDY arc with the Navy in the Pacific. TOM BRAND is working for the DuPont Company in Louisville. 
TED L,\UGHLIN married the former Miss Marjorie ^Villiams on the 8th of April in Washing­ton, D.C. All of the best to them both. By the way, both Ted and Marjorie attend the University of Georgetou'n Medical School. 
FRANK BURKE and his wife, .\nn, are boasting a new exemption. By name, Michael Patrick, and 
Notre Dame AlumnuSj August-September, 1938 65 
be was bom on March ISth. In his nc«^>orn 
uniform he weighs in at 7 lbs. 6 ozs. 
PAT McXAMARA was passing through Kansas 

City and called to say hello. Also, JOE BAUMIE 
was in the area and phoned In a greeting. Soro* 
I wasn't home, men, but be sure to call again if 
you^rc ever passing through again. 
Several of you have asked what I'm doing for 

a living so I'll take z. few lines to fill you in. 
Judging from tlic news that I receive, I'm one of 
the few single ones left in the class. At_ tlie 
present time Vm travelling the state of Jfissouri for 
my father's concern, ^\'cathcr-'^te AV'indow Com­
pany. 
From the Alumni Office: MICH/\EL JOSEPH AQUILINO was graduated from the Georgetown University Law Center June 
•9 w^th an LL.B. 
JOE CAS.AS.^XTA, JR., now assistant manager 

of the South Bend district of ^^ctropolitan Life, 
iias qualified for t\»"o years for the company's 
President's Club. 
CHARLES J. ME\'ER has been graduated from 

the General Electric Company's -Adi-anccd Engi­
neering Program and resides in Schenectady, X. Y.. 
vith his ^vifc and two children. 
ED^VARD V. SCOBY, graduating from Xorth­

westem Un!verrit>*'s Law Scliool, has won the Law 
Week award given by the Bureau of XatJonal 
Affairs, Inc., Washington, D.C., to the graduating 
laxv student who has made tl;e most satisfactor\­
proeress in his final vcar. 
DR. FRANK ERNEST SCHNflDT received Ins 

M.D. from the Tulanc University School of Mcdi­•one June 2 in New Orleans. 
From JOH.N MANION: Lt. JI.M M.\SSEy married S.M.C.'s former Kathr>-n Kromper in South SJoux City, Iowa on Saturday, June 28. Tlic>-'1I live at Camp Lejcunc. 
N. C . until this fall when Jim is expected to join brother JERRY at Quantlco. Jerr>- left N.D. in June for Quaniico; lie's expecting a first child the middle of October. LARRY WAHL and PAUX BERRITTINI both iiung up their ensign insignia and have returned to Sterling and Dixon, 111., in July. ^ PAT JONES has given up studying after receiWng degrees at Arizona and a Chicago Morti­cian's College and is in the funeral home business in Dixon, HI. GENE GORDON has committed himself to a September wedding in Sterling. III. BOB RUHL was caught passing through the shadow of the Dome in June graduation week end with his bride of one week; he \va5 anticipating a news job in St. Louis upon leaving the Army in the late summer. BILL GORH.-\M was con­tinuing his Master's studies at Purdue during the summer, while another Dixonite, JIM FITZSIM­MONS continued engineering for Micro-Swjtch Co. In Frceport, III. Tlie last word NICK RAICH in Milwaukee had from DICK KELLER came from Arizona. TOM BOTT has completed his ^^aster's studies at N.D. and is working in his hometown 
•of Danville, HI.; Tom and Cathy were expecting a second child in -August. 
^ This should Just about wrap things up for another time. Again, thanks to all of you who helped proWde the news. Be sure not to stop now since there's a lot of cirilian news to be printed on the unfortunate ones that have been released from service. To those who haven't written, take heart. there's J1W3\-S room for one more. Til end by quoting a classic remark overheard in a local de­partment store. "If you don't get out of here and leave mc alo.ic. Til find somebody who will." Peace! 
195 6 JohnP-Deasy 
5697 N". Lincoln Ave. 
Chicago 45, Illinois 

The column comes to you this day from the near top of the Prudential Building in Chicago. Specifically, from the 29th floor of the 40 floor super-structure- Chicago's answer to the New York Empire State Building, modem in convenience, the highest in the dt>*, gives this scribe the opportunity to close an oflice door, sit at a desk, swivel a chair 
•and w-atch the panoramic maze of business below. Thoughts come and go, the deadline is here. . . . Queries of classmates jell, bclo\i' Lake Mlclii­gan oRcTs a chilly invitation, little boats bobble in the harbor, though secured; the deadline is here .. . a helicopter in view hangs beneath the whirl­ing blade, the phone rings, answered, the deadline is here. . . . 
With the intent belief in the use of foresight, this issue should be in your hands by September lOth. Right now, the summer is still in anticipa­tion, thus .. . an explanation for some old but unreported ne»"s. 
These members of the Class of *42 staged an informal reunion at the fourth annual Florida State Convention held at the Sea Ranch, Fort Lauderdale, Fla. They arc (standing, left to right) Bill Madden, Leo Burby, Wade Noda, Tom Walker, Bill Hickey, George Rudolph and (seated) Dick Wlielan. Also present but not pictured was Joe Gore. 
The Korean situation is well In hand, the papers and wire scr\'ices tell no stories of recent violence, and as of 22 March, *58 BOB COSTELLO, last reported an aflirmancc to the effect that all is wet but well in Seoul. PHIL KRAMER, DA\'E CL.\RK, TED MADDE.\, Maysxille, Ky., TOAD RYAN and BOB attempted a get-together for an old fashioned Dragoon's date, and at this early June date, no stories of recent violence have been seen or heard. 
HARRY LOCKWOOD, before his cruise of the Med., met JOHN O'CONNOR in Norfolk last fall, where the latter was a chaplain's assistant. The two spent a quiet afternoon over some juice at a sedate tea room. Needless to say, the SP provided accommodations. 
Phil whispered that he ran into JOHN COR­BETT around Subic Bay in the Philippines while on leave. Bob knew the latter was somewhere in the Far East, because he heard Wee-more yelling on several occasions. . . . DON BROPHY was seen as a PIO man in Vijonbu, while R.C. was playing football for EASCOM (8th Army "J-K " Support Command). 
Tlic w*edding bells have rung in St. James Church. Douglas, Wyoming for LT. BOB McGOLDRICK and the SMC belle. Miss Jody Donohoe, during the Nuptial Mass lact June 17. It was followed by a big bunch for brunch at the .American Legion Club in Douglas. Cuugmtulations Bob and Jody . . . and may all the little Magecdies be if-a-n-a-g-c (able). 
The latest word on DON KILLIAX came from his mother, saying a marriage united the Ens. with Miss Lori Sullivan of New Berlin last .April 26 in Bloomington, Illinois, while D. K. had been Communications Officer on the S-S. Rowan prior to his transfer to the Na\y Air Force at Pensa­cola. Fla., on May 4th. 
All in the area can reach LT. JOHN (CROW) KEGALY and his bride. Peg (SMC) at Head­quarters, ATRD (MATS), McGuire AFB, New Jersey, up to Sept. '59, where the "winged** fellow is assigned as a Mgt. Analysis Officer. Tlicy spent their first six months in Moultrie, Ga., for pilot training as did BOB ANDREWS, BILL KING, and VIRGIL (ZEKE) PAI\'A. From there, thc>­went to Enid, Okla., and ran into JIM NICHOLS, now at McConn.;ll AFB, Widiita, Kan.; DON BRENNAN ana BILL COPEIAND, %%-ifc and baby boy after being sent to Harlingcn .AFB, Texas. . . . 
The '"Crow" would like some news from LUKE BRENN/VN, somewhere in Germany with the Air Force and old Salty-JIM MACK, who finally made the rank of a sea-scout after his hitch near the Great Salt Lake. The column heard from the skipper la-t Christmas before he was to take oar and slip across the sea to invade the isle of Monaco, after receiving a request from some Princess. Rumor has it the former "Beach Boy" was shot at by one P.\T GR(\D Y while siiifting some sand with one DON SMITH. . . . ENS. MACK may chuckle, but LT. JIM McCLAY at last word was leading the Marines on Okinawa beach invasions, called "Some Silent Maneuvers on Slop 21." A rnnior from the "Crow" stated that Janet and JOHN GAFF­NEY in the Army in Virginia are expecting a little Gaffney. 
.•\ bulletin from the Alumni .-Vssociation reminds us of a vital outline-report and announcement received by all in a brochure edited by the N.D. Foundation. It was interesting to note that in the previous 10 year program a total of 27.1 million \\'as received, but the Alumni itself produced 
5.3 million, or 30% of the total support from all outside sources. Of 11,631 alumni gifts in 1957, 68% (7,908 gifts) were 510 or under. Tliis participation record, and the value of the small gift, must not be lost or even discounted, but the Foundation asks us to test our ability to increase our support which is ricli in promise. 
THROUGH THE GRAPEVINE: 
We hear that Janet and CHET MITCHELL arc the proud and happv parents of Tommy Joseph . . . P.VT POYNTON, fresh from receiving his Masters under the Dome, is now employed by Douglas Aircraft in L. A. Calif. . . . Tlie Com­merce School whi/. MARK (I.B..\f.) BURNS, treated Mar>* Ellen Cullun to a spaiklcr, something comparable to the Hope diamond. . . . .Announcing DON COSTELLO has taken up reins with Footc, Cone & Belding, 135 E. Superior, Chicago, Illinois, as a copywriter with such personal accounts as Johnson's Wax, Kimbcrly Clark, and Minn.-Honey­well on his plush office desk. . . . Cos may soon make a step in the direction of one Jeanic Knig, a R.N. and former V:»rsity Queen from Loyola U. . . . Hey, anybody .. . if you can supply the column ur the Alumni Office \t-ith an up-to-dalc address of JOE O'NEILL (400 Raymond, Che\-y Chase, Md.?) the Foundation tvould appreciate it. 
66 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September, 1958 
J.* J j-.^j^ 3.: fTK iv-ii-iiTT 
Wicrc is LEO O'DONNELL these days? Wc last heard his N-oice during the Christmas season as he was "enroute" to Pittsburgh, to resume his position with U. S. Steel, alter his 6 mo. hitch at Ft. Sam Houston, Texas. .. . t -„ 
This little bit may have some sort of an cclioing tone to it but another Loyola U. Varsity Queen was married to one PAT CR.\DDOCK last .^ugust 
•> Arlen Phillips hooked the young Cities Scnice Mecutive and former brilliant Chicago Club-Green Giant left-fielder alter a copious attack. lat, incidentally, still is losing in handball, but de­series a hand for his charming choice. . . . 
We just returned from Woodstock, 111., where local Miss Peggy Hanrahan was wed to tall lAUL NOL;\ND in a verj-impressive ceremony '" »'• Patrick's followed by a flowing champagne blast that gathered many of the troops from iiear and far. On the altar came DAVE COLLINS fresh from his 2nd year at Har%-ard Law, and BENllU CARR<\NE after his 2nd year at DcPauI U s Law School. Pretty as ever was Miss Shanahan from SMC and Miss Nancy Walil, an old Florida chum and teaching pal of the bride. Before dxnnS^nd after the bubbling reception, we chatted and kidded with TOM MCNEILL who just received his law-degree Irom N.D. Among the crowd were TONl and TOM &\PLET, ROG 0'REILL\, TOM RILEY JACK &\SEY, to have been married to Vane; England, July 11; PHIL WHITE (not to have been married); PETE a\NNON , soon to make an announcement (hot tip) . . . about a .Miss Gallagher from .Mason City, Iowa, while he has been with Minn.-Honeywell, St. Paul, Minn., after receiving his Masters at N.D. last commencement. Had qu L a session with BOB FISHER (78 Conklm Ave., Binghamton, N. Y. No. -i-S'^). -o'' V'* 
Chas. Bruning Co., who drove out and filled m with the following news on a few easterner. . . . DON BECHAMPS and the former Ginny 1 nomas, SMC, now Mr. and Mrs., are expecting this Sept. WALT BOQUEST and recent bride Judy, now caring for DHUUU Patrick. . . BOB BWKIE and the former Peggy Theise, SMC, gave birth toRobt. Wm. in Frankfurt. Germany, no less. . . . IM t-l-BILL (CONTACTS) COSTA last seen m charge of a junk yard in Metz, France, doing well with a S'O SI Mercedes between those myopic banks. 
.". GORDON Dl RENZO (how about that letter) now a Prof, at St. Rose in Albany, N. Y. 
Hope no names were missed, but congratula­tions to Paul and Peg still honeymooning m Hawaii where the ENS. is stationed. .. . 
Spent a ver>-enjoyable evening after a surprise visit with JOHN R,\UB who just finished his 2nd year in the seminary in preparation for the priesthood with the Ohio diocese. John wishes to be remembered to d l :md asked that we remember 
' him in our prayers. .,.,,.. r. r' Had an occasion to be in Hashington, L>.l-.., J for a day last May and was met at the airport 
• by my old Alumni Hall mate SIR THO.MAS POWERS. Spent the evening with his parents. 

Captain V. T. Blaz, '51, USMC, swears m his brother Joaquin, '56, inducted by the 
U.S. Army, in an unusual ceremony on the island Territory of Guam in May. Both brothcis arc natives of Guam, the elder sta­tioned at the Marine barracks and the younger a former employee of the terri­torial department of finance. 
;-f.,:i,.?ffsmi@j 

HAWAII—The Notre Dame Club of Hawaii observed Universal Notre Dame Night at the ^ ^ -:venso„ WaJuk. M«»?*«. * ^
Robert Louis Stevenson Room of the Princess Kaiulani Hotel at WaiJuR Members, Aeir wives and guests and other friends of Notre Dame, heard Fath^Robert^R-Mackey, SAI. 
prt^Went orVbLiinadTcoUegeT Honolulu^speak on "Private Capital's Stake in Private Higher Education." 
who gave me a royal welcome f-"-^^^^c^ ^^.i"" reallv apDreciativc. Tried to locate MIKE KILE\, jrM'GAMMON and DAVE THOMPSO.V in the area but the time was too short. Tom will finish his duty at Ft. Sam Houston by this edition, and armed \vith his Masters in Labor and Industrial Relations from Illinois, will set out to conquer the Labor Movement. Really enjoyed the capiiol city and after returning, heard a rumor of one Shirky Ann O'Brien of St. Marj's and Indianapolis fame that roomie will be upset by. Seems she is now engaged to one JIM KR.\MER, 'o2. . . . Con­gratulations and best wishes to the blue-eyed Irish Ouccn • • • • 
Well gang, allow me to sign olT; the press is waling . . . hope to sec you at the Army game. 
From the Alumni Office: . r~ ,. 
The Jcrsev Shore xvas on hand to greet Gov­ernor Robert Meyner on New Jersey Day at the International E.xposition in Brussels, May /, m me person of FREDERICK J. CROSSON. Dr, Cros­son, an assiitact professor m the General Program at Notre Dame, is doing research at the Univer­sitv of Louvain. Belgium, on a Belgian.,\menan Foundation grant. He liv^ in Louvain with h« wife, Patricia, and two chddren, Jessica Mane and 
"^""wndhlTup hU tour of duty at Fort Benning, Ga First Lt. HENRY S. DIXON, revealed some of his historic family background. His great-great­grandfather John Oixon, told by his doctor at the age of 23 that he hadn't long to live, went on to found a frontier tavern and settlement and become the first mavor of Di.«n's Ferry, now Dixon, III. A friend of young Abe Lincoln and another young officer named Jefferson D.avis during the Black Hawk War, he became the first man to nominate Lincoln for president in 1836 and, in spite of the doctor's prediction, lived 36 years Henry s father, Shenvood Dixon, a retired Brigadier General. w:« 

elected lieutenant governor of Illinois m 1948 and seried with Adlai Stevenson, running ""^"^f^ fullv for governor in 1952. DO.N J. MAEDER, also at Fort Benning, was recently promoted to first lieutenant and platoon leader of a medical 
"ROGER G. LEOUS icceived an .M.B.A. from the Cornell University Graduate School of Business and Public Administiation June 16. 
E.\RL HODGES WARE, JR., was graduated from the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University June 9. 
I OCT Charles P. Williamson 
•' " P.O. Box 605 Mt. Vernon, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTR,\NT WILLIAM T. DOWNING. 
From the .Mumni Office: 

PHILLIPPE PIERRE &\V,\KAGH >vas gradu­ated May 30 from the American Institute for Foreign Trade and joined Cummins Engine Com­
pany to train for a position in the company's over-sens operations. —.„, » Second Lt. JOHN E. M.ARVANSKI was de­signated an outstanding student for h« superior performance in the Field Artillery Officer Basic Course at Fort Sill, Oklahoma. DANIEL P. SULLIVAN, who added an engi­neei^ng degree to his A.B. in June, has won a Hughes Fellowship enabling him to continue work toward an ILS. at the University of Southern California while working part-time for Hughes .Aircraft Company. 
Paul Kraus (Law Secretary) 1730 W. Bancroft St. 
Toledo 6, Ohio 
My adjustment to civilian life has been com­pletely accomplished, thus enabling me to handle the tremendous volume of mail which arrives at my home from all of you busy attorneys. Nouga 
'^Congratulations to CHIP BARNES for having passed the Ohio Bar. Word from the Dean seems , slow in coming. ^ . , 
A recent check on the election returns in the Cleveland Plain Dealer revealed that one of our Democratic hopefub, RON MOTTL, was un­fortunately unsuccessful in his attempt to gam » nominau'on for election as representative to the Ohio General Assembly. The experience of the campaign will no doubt be of great v^ ue to him and let's hope that opposite results will be forth­coming in the not-too-dbtant future. 
TOM BEELER, as of our common visit to the campus = month ago, had made no commiOnent in the legal worid. He seemed to be enjoying bemg a "gentleman farmer." He's the family repre­sentative for the farm's products. This involves a great deal of travel as you can imagine. 
A long letter from Dbtnct Court Law Clerk, ED FOX, in Hammond, Indiana, provided a re­vival of the old "Oxian" pleasantnes. He find5 that his complete set of cans « mvaluile when writing opinions. The document included fte re­port that TOM &\R.MODy has his own office in Carlinsville, Illinois, and finds the experience of private practice very enjoyable and a daily chaj­
"BI'fears that he may have a brush with military service before very long. However, a fe^v ^ddiuonaJ, appeals to the draft board should save him from such disastrous consequences. 
JOHN ROGERS is completing a short stint as a Jfarinc recruiter (can you imagine?) in DaUas whence he will move on to San Diego as a legal 
" Yours truly has joined the Toledo firm of Cubbon and Rice, 300 Security Building for the general practice. Along with the other satisfactions of bemg emploved, it's a pleasure to be removed as a detrimental statistic in the Dean's unemployment files. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1958 67 
1 958 ^^^"^ L. Roule, Jr. 1717 Indiana Ave. LaPorte, Indiana 
{The Alumni Office ^*-as as sincerely regretful as any of you over the inclement wcallier which marred the climxx of your Commencement. TTicrc was little recourse but to hope for good weather, with proWsions, within impossible limitations, for the weather which actually descended. It is probably 
not too consoling to say that only the s\Tnbol of your academic and spiritual benefits from your years at Notre Dame was dampened, and that the benefits went with you intact. .-Vnd It would prob­ably be undiplomatic and premature to suggMt that your Class, above all others, knows the significance of the proposed Fieldhousc-.\udItorium in our long-range program. Wc hope that this first endencc of the ^-alue of the Class column, through Art Roule. your dev-oted and able Secretary*, and the ALUMXUS magazine, will temper your disappoint­ment of June i. James E. .\rmstrong. Editor.) 
The first attempt at compiling a column of class news is now before you. I am afraid that this edition must of necessity be something short of a 1iterar>* masterpiece because I have a little news about a great number of men, ar.d I will tr>* to set down as much as I have about as many as I can. Of course this nciv-. is somewhat tentative becatisc it is based on the plans for the future as related to me via the class cer?u<; cards. 
Now that the explanation* are out of the u-ay. here's the done: 
RON ABEL is working for the National .Ad­visory* Committee for Aeronautics in the Lewis Flight Propulsion Lab. Ron's work Is in the mathematical line and he hopes to enter Case In­stitute in a year or so to do graduate work in math. JACK ADAMS is assigned to the U.S.S. Fremont out of Norfolk. DICK ADAMY will enter med school at the Unlversltv of Buffalo. BUD AHEARN, one of our distinguished (ly-bo%-s is stationed at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. CLEM ATTA heads for Northwc>tem for an ^LA. in Histon-. RON ALLEV is at Fort Lee, Va. RAY ANDRE\V Is working for \Vestcm Electric in Ke\c York; he plans to gt> to Law School in his spare time (?) but isn't s'irc where. DON ANDRYSIAK is skipT'Ing down the bridal path with Miss Gaylc Botz on Au:j«st 30. Tlien its off to med school. 
RON BABCOCK is working with the firm of Arthur Anderson & Co. in New York—he's doing auditing. DON BAtER is with New York Life Insurance In Newark. .lACK BAIR Is with the Bank of America In Fresno: he is in the manager training program. TOM BALL lists himself as manager of the Caledonia (N. Y.) Lumber & Coal Co. RAY BARNAS is employed by Chase Brass & Copper Co. in Detroit; his plans include matri­mony on Aue. 16—the bride will be Rose ifarie Mastc\-. BOB BENO, one of Burtoncini's stellar "Lettermen." returns to N.D. to study music JOHN BEN\TGNU is working \rith Chicaco Bridce and Iron ii: Salt Lake City. EMILE BERNARD enters Georgia Institute of Technoloc>­to learn all about nuclear reactors. JOHN BER­NARD will work xs an accountant with Touche. Nivcn, Bailey-& Smart in Detroit when he gels out of the Army. JIM BERNER Is enrolling in the American Institute of Foreign Trade. JI^f BERRY heads for Northwestern for journalism. JOHN BIRK will enter the seminar>' in Louisrillc. Montgomery- \\'ard will train FR.ANK BISCHOF to be a manager. BRUNO BL.\CHOWICZ is with Douglas Aircraft in Santa Monica. JIM BOND returns to N.D. for grad work in math. BOB BORCHERS matriculates at Wisconsin to seek a Ph.D. in physics. BOB BOW'MAN will study Greek Philosophy at Yale. P.AUL BOYD will teach and study at N.D. in the engineering field. BILL BRADISH is one of the many who married on June 7. He wed Miss Barbara Vargo in Sacred Heart Church; he plans to stav at N.D- for grad school (Chem. Eng.). BERNIE BRAULT walked 
down the aisle with Reglna Murrav on June 14. 
DICK BREITENSTEIN will work for General 
Motors in the Euclid Dirision. GEORGE BREEN 
is with Hazehinc Electric. JIM BRENNAN was 
married June 14, to Miss Priscilla AVricht. JOE 
BRIDE hiS landed a jab with the WASHINGTON 
POST; he'll be a reporter. BILL BROU7J is with 
Dodge Mfg. in Mishau-aka. BILL BUSCEMI hopes 
to go to Ohio State for I.aw after his army hitcli. 
BOB BYRNES married Mary Elizabeth Wlboum 
on June 7 in Morgantown, W. Va. 
BOB CAIOLA will enter Peiin State for the 

study of fuel technology. BILL CAMBRON has 
also gone to work for Dodge Mfg. in Mishau-aka. 
FRED CANNATA is one of the most valuable 
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY, '35 

William Kennedy has been elected presi­dent of the Long Island Public Relations Association, representing over 100 public relations operations in the area, including industrial, aircraft and governmental units. He is president of Kennedy Associates, ptiblic relations and fund-raising counsel, representing over 30 municipalities and non­profit organizations in the East, and execu­tive vice-president of Tops Temporary Per­sonnel, Inc., a ser\-icc which supplies tem­porar>* clerical workers to other companies. 
On the campus Bill Kennedy was most active in publications. An editor of the Juggler and Scrips he conducted a column "The Week" in the Scholastic. Since then he has followed a similar course, having, been a repoiter. editor and radio news com­mentator for New York and Long Island newspapers. In 1946 he organized Kennedy Associates, the first "and still the foremost" firm in the country- providing public rela­tions counsel to cities and other local gov­erment units. As a pioneer in this field he has spoken before many state and national conferences of mayors and is currently active in the Government Public Relations As­sociation. 
His firm also raises funds for hospitals 

and health and welfare agencies. 
His "sideline," Tops, is the original and 

now one of the largest temporary' personnel 
agencies in the country-, employing over 
1,800 persons. 
Bill lives on Long Island where he is 

active in community afi"airs. Married to the 
former .A.va Ottman, he has t\vo children, 
Judy, 19, a junior at Marymount College, 
Tarrytown, and Lynne, 17, a senior in high 
school. 
With all these achievements Bill still has 

ambitions, the fondest being to complete 
"that first novel." 
employees of Pratt & Whitney in East Hartford, Conn. MIKE CANTWELL is with the Ohio De­partment of Highway's. ANDY CAPRA enters the University of Colorado to seek a master's degree In mechanical engineering. Ifc is working for the Martin Co, in Denver as a member of the design department. JIM (SHORTY) CARELL has left the Southland to work for Shell Oil in Indianapolis. He's working in the treasury department. BILL C/\RLEY is with Haskins & Sells doing public accounting in Washington. DICK C:\RNEY heads for tlic University of Tulsa to study rcfincr>- en­gineering. MIKE CARR is jtlU in South Bend working with New York Life Insurance. CHARLES CARROLL stays with N.D. for graduate physics work. VINCE CARROLL is enrolling for a pre­doctoral course in bactcriolog>* at the University of California at Berkeley. Although he ran the Mar­riage Institute he only answers, "ma\-bc," to ques­tions concerning his wedding plans. D.vS' CASTRO ivill study Industrial Management at Purdue. JOE CHERNEY is working for Du Pont in Gibbstoun. N. J. BILL CHESSON of WSND fame will be seen on Channel 4 In Pittsburgh as an announcer. ANDY CLARK is entering Indiana to get a Mas­ter's degree in Transportation. TO.\f CLIFTON IS employed at the Indiana State Mental Hospital as a music therapist. BOB COL-AIZZI is art direc­tor in the advertising firm of J. W. Tliompson in Detroit. PETE CONLISK is with Bell & Gosscti in Morton Grove, Illinois. His plans Include mar­riage in August with Miss Susan Scntcr and grad school in the fall (engineering science at N.D.). BERNIE COOPER married Carolyn Ann Smith on June 7 in Indianapolis. G.-VRY COOPER strolled down the aisle on the same date; his bride was Miss Charlcsettc Fcrrlll of Chicago. TOM COTE has a job with New England Electric in Boston. DICK COYNE will occupy a managerial position in the Western Funeral Home in Jolict. FRANK CRINELL.V will study Psychology at the 
U. of Cal. JOHN CRONLEY will sell Fords in the Cronlc>* agenc>- in Kalamazoo. MIKE CROWT married Mar>- Ellen Boppart on June 7. He will studv the historv- of science at Wisconsin. 
GERRY DAHLE likes the looks of the Xaw and is heading for OCS in Newport. R. I. DENN'^' D*ALELIO married Miss Snellen Haley in Sacred Heart Church on August 9. BUDDY DAY is work­ing for A. C. Spark Plug Co. of General Motors. He'll be working on guided missiles in Milwaukee. ED DAY heads for Iowa State to studv chcmlstrv. JOHN DAUGHTON plans to do graduate study at Illinois in the field of electrical engineering. H.\NK DE a^LUAVE has a pretty complete set of plans. On June 21 he wed Miss Betty Korte In Dearborn, Michigan; he will be working for tlic Ford Motor Company: and he lists the Air Force as his military destiny. JOE DERRICO will be a junior accountant with Lybrand. Ross Bros.. & Arontgomer>- In. New York City. PETE DEVITO enters Harvard in the field of American Studies. JOE DEZELAN is another of the accountants in our class. He'll wori for Peat. Harwick. S: Mitch­ell in Indianapolis. BOB DISTEL will work for Knolls Atomic Power Lab in Schenectady; he also plans to studv at Rensselaer Polytechnic (Nfcch. Eng.). PAUL DJUBASAK, DICK LYNCH, and FRANK KUCHTA have signed xvlth the ^Vashing­ton Redskins; Uncle Sam has first call for them though, and the Redskins mav have to wall a bit. PAT DOHERTY will sell for Best Foods Inc. PAT DOL/\N has landed a Job as head football coach at St. Mar>-'s High School in Mt. Clemens. Michigan. In addition he'll teach science. Miss Kathr\'n Hahn will be Pat's bride on September 6. WALT DONNELLY is altar-bound with Miss Rose­mary Corcoran on August 23. L.\RRY DONOVAN has two things in mind: working in the sales de­oartmcnt of Hercules Powder Co. of Wilmington. Delaware, and entering the Na\">''s C.E.C. School in Port Hueneme. Cal. JOHN DOOLING will study business administration at Seton Hall. BOB DUFFY plans to go to Columbia for a Master's degree in management. BILL DUFFY heads for the Army Audit Agenc\- in Chicago. JOHN DUN'N will work for Standard Oil in Wlilting. SKIP DUNNIGAN will be race secretary at the Monti­cello Raceway in >rontIceIlo, N. Y. BOB DWYER will give his scr\*iccs to the Dv\yer Lumber Co. in Portland, Oregon. 
JACK EATON will be a sales representative for 
the State Mutual Life Assurance Co. in Dallas 
(you didn't expect him to leave the Lone Star 
State, did you?). TOM EISENHOWER is with 
Universal Tool Co. in Dayton. JOE ELL.AM is 
working fcr the State of California in Sacramento. 
Building bridges is his line. TOM ERNST remains 
at N.D. for graduate work in electrical engineering. 
One of Ivan Mestroric's sculpture students this year will be DICK FAGON. BILL FARMER works for Melpar Inc. as a production engineer. 
€8 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1933 
; 
Jack Lavelle, '28, main speaker at St. Bonaventure University's annual sports banquet, is shown with Prof. Nicholas J. Amato, former N.D. football manager now teaching history at St. Bonaventure; Ed Donovan, coach of the Bonnies* N.C.A.A. quarterfinallst basketball team, and Dr. Russell J. Jandoli, '40, chairman of journalism at the school. 
BOB FARRELL will marn- Miss Charlotte Sgaiiga on Aug. 23. MIKE FEENEY is working for Hall­mark Cards in Kan<ias City. He was married on June 21 to Miss Anne Burlingame; the wedding is scheduled for Kansas City. JOE FINNIE takes up a quest for a Mxsler's di-gree at Michigan. Evi­dently lie'll study business administration. JOE FISHER is engaged as a salesman for the Hamil­ton Safe Co. in Ohio. AL FLORIN is an account­ant with Haskin* & Sells in New York City. TOM FOGART\' is with Western Electric in Allentown. Pa. He will marry Margaret Easteray on October II; the B^ll Labs of Lehigh University will be the site of future study for Tom in physics and busi­ness administration. BRI.AN FOLEY intends to study at Stevens Ino»:tuIe of Technology (Chcmis­lr>). JOHN FOLEY will be at Columbia for study of psvchologv-. JOE FORAN is with Phiico in Philadelphia. BOB FORSBERG is doing auditing work with Peat. Maiwick. Mitchell & Co. imtil he goes on active duty with his national guard unit {.Aug. 24) at Ft. Leonard Wood. While waiting he wed Miss Joan Gensler on June 14. TOM FORSTER merits recognition for being one of the most indefinite planners In our class. He does have considerable competition, however. BOB FUREY Is working with MEDICO the medical aid organization founded by DR. THOMAS DOOLEY. Bob will be working with a med'cal team In Laos. Indochina. 
JOE GAGLIARDI will be at Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Business seeking an M.B.A. BOB GAYDOS will work for Kroger's in Pittsburgh until he enters th* Army in January. lie will many LaVonne Ruth Weaver on Aug. 16. JOE 
Joseph C. Clark, *33, William J. Magarrall, '32, and Joseph L. Fitzmaurice, '35, lock hands in Hibernian fraternity at a St. Pat­rick's Day gathering in Pittsburgh, Pa. 
GENESER is doing accounting with Ernst & Ernst in Des Moines. GERRY GENOVESE Is staying in South Bend to work in the sales department of Prudential Insurance. June 7 was the date of his wedding with Miss Marlenc Krcmer In Reynolds. Indiana. GEORGE GL/VSCOW Is going to Mc­Donnell Aircraft in St. Louis. MIKE GLEASON is planning to go to the University of Kansas for an M.B..\. {this Is the Nfikc Gleason of Jctmore. Kansas). BOB GR.\FF Is also one of the accounting fraternity; he Is working In the firm of GrafT. Bogerl. & Seco in Oradell. X. J. Miss Marrianc McClelland became Bob's bride on June 21. M.ATT GROGA N is with General Electric working on jet propulsion. MARTY H.VXAFLV will be selllni; insurance In Endicolt. X. Y.. until fall when he will enter law school. PAUL HARVEY has been hired by the California Highways Department and will be working in San Luis Obl.'ipo. MIKE H.AYES will return to Xotre Dame to study electrical en­gineering. CL/\UDE HE.-\TH plans to sell Buicks until line to go on active duty with the Army. So. if vou live in Leotl. Kansas, and you want to buy s Buick—see Claude. GENE HEDRICK will coach football at Billings Central Catholic In Billings. Montana. The Log Chapel on June 14 was the site of Gene's marriage to Miss Sybil Lobaugh. JOE HEIMOSKI is another of the men who surrendered their bachelorhood. He married Miss Mariruth Michcl.% on June 7 In Cliicago. KEN HEINEM.AX is working in Kokomo in the H, B. Heinenian firm. He says that he is the manager. DON HEITZLER is with Prudential Insurance In Chicago. CHUCK HENZY Is selling Insurance for the M. E. Murphy agency* In Cleve­land. On June 7 Chuck married Victoria Bapst. BILL HERBER plans to study education at the University of Washington. LEE HINDERSCHEID wins the prize for being the first to marr\' after graduation. H.T was married to Miss Ann Mulligan on June 2 (that was the Monday after commence­ment). He Is working for Firestone in .Akron as an accountant. VINCENT HOHL is a managerial traine.* with Montgomery Ward in Xiles. Michigan. GUNNAR HOLM will study chemistry at Florida State. FRED HOLZL is employed in the under­writing department of .America-Fore In Chicago. RUSS HOPKINS is working for an importer in Chicagj. L.ARRY HOWARD .vill be married on August 2.3 to .Miss Marilyn Mueller. JOHN HRIBER is ser\-ing as a dcsigncr-dctailer with Howard. Xcedlcs. Tammrn & BergendofT In Cleve­land. L/\WRENCE IRSIK will be teaching In Wichita. DAN IRWIN will work for C. J. Irwin Co. Inc.. a sugar brokerage firm. JOHN JACH­M.AN heads for Pt. .\Iugu. California where he will perform sonic sort of engineering duties at the 
U. S. .Xaval Air Missile Test Center. CLIFFORD JOHN is with Chr\-sler (he lists the location as mid-west which is a pretty large territory'). Miss Mar\' Angela McCarthy became Mrs. John on June 14 in .\It. Clemens, Michigan. JOE JOHN­STON will give his talents to Eastman Kodak in Rochester. X. Y. EUGENE JORDAN will be In fabrication research with Nuclear Metals Inc. of Cambridge, Massachusttts. He also plans to do some more study at M.I.T. 
DAN KAV.ANAUGH will enter dental SCIMKJI at 
Detroit U. DON KEATING will enter the .Mary­knoll Scmlnar>- In Glen Ellyn, Illinois. JOHN KEHOE married Maurine Roeskcn on July 7 in Beech Grove, Ind. He w-ill work for Socony-Mobil Oil in East Chicago. TO.M KEOGH seeks an 
M.B.A. Dt N.Y.U. Stover. Butler. & Murphy will enjoy the ser\'iccs of JIM KEOUGH; he too Is an accountant. OTTO KEYES wants to continue in school. He'll study English at Wisconsin. CHARLEY KILB will sell for the Kroehlcr Co. in Napervillt except for the time he'll spend with the Air Force. JOE KILLIAN will enter the seminary In Cleveland. Stanford will see JOHN KIRCHNER; he'll be there to get an M.B.A. BOB KIRKER is working for the New York State Highway Department. PAT KiTREEKSE plans to enter law school after his Navy hitch is finished. CHARLEY KITZ has marriage and more school' on his mind. His bride will be Miss Betty -McGlynn; date: August 23; place: Cincinnati. Charley will be at Carnegie Tech for graduate work in industrial management. JOHN KLEM­MER has a job with Peat, Marwich. & Mitchell in Chicago. JOHN KLIMEK is another of the August 23 bridegrooms. He will "marry Miss Margaret Kaminskos In Chicago; his employer u North American Aviation In Los Angeles. MARVIN KOMINIAREK Is directing his talents toward the field of casualty Inimrance in Michigan City, Indi­ana. RON KOONTZ works for R.C.A. in Cam­den. N. J. He heads for the Univ. of Pcnnsyl­\'ania for graduate engineering work. JIM KRONE will split his time between his employer, Sandla Corp. of Albuquerque, and the Univ. of New Mexico. With both of these concerns his work will be electrical engineering. D.AVE KUBAL wants to obtain an M..A. in English literature at Northwestern. R.\Y KUTZENDORF will be at Illinois Institute of Technology* seeking an M.S. in E.E. 
GEORGE LANGER will be at Xotrc Dame study­ing physics. DON L.ANGHANS plans to work for Harbro Plumbing Supply in Buffalo and attend Canisius College's administrator program. DON L.ARIVEE will study physics at California. MEL LARSON will also be at Mt. Clemens, Michigan as a coach. HENRY L.\UERM.AN enters the grad­uate school of retailing at the Univ. of Pittsburgh. JIM L.AW can't find It In his heart to leave South Bend so he will work for :hc O'Brien Paint Com­pany. JIM LENOX and Miss Gaetana DIccrto were mirried in Sacred Heart Chuich on August 9. Jim is in the training program of Manufacturer's Life Insurance Co. in Hartford. Conn. Propulsion designing Is C.ARL LENZO'S line of work with Chancc-Vought Aircraft in Dallas. JOE LESLIE Is a golf pro at Orchard Ridge Country Club in Fort Wayne. Among his plans Is enrollment at the University of Hawaii (he says to study business administration but those In the know say that it 
Edward J., Jr., '43 (left), and Thomas P. Dorc, *49, both former navy pilots, stand with their father, Edward, Sr., in front of family (and company) plane. Members of the Dorc Agency, Inc., an insurance firm, all three have qualified for the Million Dol­lar Round Table, a sales honor group, for the second year in succession. 

Noire Dame Ahmnus, August-September, 1958 
PERU—Member of a thrh-ing overseas club gather with their families and fiiends in Lima to pay tribute to Alma Mater at Universal Notre Dame Night meeting. 
is merclv to lr\' out the Hawaiian brand of golf links). MlKELEYDEX will inarr>- Miss Mao-Lou Grant in AVaukcgan sometime in August. ED 
LIKAR heads for the D.T. Watson School of Physiatriri; he will rtudy physical therapy. CHUCK LIMA packs his family off to Cincinnati where he will sell insurance (Mutual Benefit Insurance Co.). DAVE LINK and Miss Barbara .Ann Winter-. halter were wed on Jidy 7 in Sandusky, Ohio. MIKE LORCH will teach in San Dicgo; he hopes to continue his schooling cither at San Dicgo State or X.D- STAN LORENS will study psycholog>- at QhxQ State. JOHN MADDEN became the husband on Auguil 9 of Miss Jolcnc Walsh in St. Paul, Minnesota. BRUCE MALEC will sell real estate in Chicago. MIKE MALKMUS lists his employer as Tube Turns of Louisville. He will be a product engineer. PAUL MANLEY is a junior accountant with Arthur Young & Co. in Cleveland. JOHN MANTEY returns with the rest of the horde to Notre Dune where he will continue in electrical engineering. FILANK M.-\NZO plans to study Spanish language and Utcraturc al Rutgers. TOM MARK will seek an M.B.A. at Northwestern. BOB MARR w^s wed to Miss Doris Good in Boston on June 14. JOE MAWBY enters the restaurant busi­ness in Cleveland. He'll be with Mawby Inc.; on August 16; he will manv Miss Patricia Bright in Cleveland, TOM MAZUR is at Wharton Scliool of Business studying industrial management. JOHN MEHIGAN is with Arthur Young & Co. as an accountant. (Chicago) GERRY MEYER and Miss Brcnda Ann Tliorpc were married on August 9 in Falls Church, Va. D.AVE AUCHAUX was also altar-bound. His bride was Carol Fabcr; tlie happy date was June 7 and the place was San-dusk>-, Ohio. VIRGIL MIN'NICK is seeking an 
M.S.E.E. at the Univ. of PennsyU-ama. BOB MIS­SAL and the Prudential Insurance Company will be combining forcss in Detroit. GEORGE MITCHELL merits a mention by request of his fan club. He isn't doing anything in particular besides looking after things in the Marine Corps, but since he likes to sec his name in print we'll give him this mention. JI.M MITCHELL will studv physical chemistry at 

N. D. PAUL MORAN chose June 9 as the date on which to marry Miss Ann Macino in Pittsburgh. CORNELIUS MOORE plans to take up physics at the Univ. of Kentucky. JIM MRUS gives his selling talents to New York Life In the Youngs­tou-n area. ^L•^RTY MUNSTER will be with Sears Roebuck but as of this writing doesn't knotv %%here. MIKE MURRAY and Miss Mar>- Hor\-aiIi were married on August 2 in Wzshington. He goes with the Credit Union National Association as a trainee in Madison, Wisconsin. I understand that Mike and his wife plan to go to Africa to do mission work after his training period is completed. Keep us posted, Mike. BOB MURRAY has been hired by Pittsburgh Plat; Glais in Decatur, Illinois. HARRY MURPHY will stvidy business administra­tion at Scton Hall. Lr\RRY MURPHY is another returnee to N.D. Hc*Il study criminology. JOHN McaVRTHY plan-, to get an ^LA. and Ph.D. In modem European hlstorv' at McGill University. PAT McCULLOUGH will continue in journalism at Northwestern. August 23 will find him marr>'­ing Miss Marlee Home in Chicago. JOE Mc-CONNELL will study sculpture at N.D. BOB McGOVERN seeks his M.A. in sociology at N.D. TEX McGRAW wil'. be at the Univ. of Chicago studying philostiphy. JLM McGUIRE will be with Metal & Thermit in Railway, N. J. JIM MC­LAUGHLIN is a funeral director in Jersey City. JOHN MCLAUGHLIN win lend his abilities to Douglas .Aircraft in Santa Monica; he plans to re­turn to N.D. for an M.S. JERRY McNABB is an employee of the Bcloit Iron Works in Bcloit, Wis­consin. JLM McNAMAR^V (of Chicago) will marr>­Miss Lynn NiehofT on August 23 in Chicago. DON McNEILL will attend Loyola until time to enter the army. D.AVE McSHANE will be doing tele­vision work In Pittsburgh. 
DICK NEMECHEK Is with Conralr in San Diego; he plans to do some more study In electrical engineering at San Diego State. 
/•^.y^^: 

NEW JERSEY—U.N.D. Night Chairman Elmer M. Matthe^\*s, '47 (left), chats with some of the headliners at New Jersey's celebration, (from left) Father Hesburgh, Most Reverend Thomas A. Boland, S.T.D,, Archbishop of Newark, and Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15. 
70 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September^ 1958 
JOHN O'CONNOR will do graduate work in education at Albaav State. Tlie Ohio State grad scliool will be the seen-: of DICK O'DONNELL'S future study. JIM O'NEILL will enter Wharton School of Business to study business administration. Tlic Nallonil Advisor\' Commi:ice for Aeronautics will have the services of TOM ORrVNGE. He will do research in Cleveland. GEORGE OSER plans to study ph\-sics al the Univ. of Michigan. GREG OSOWSKI will be at Purdue studying organic chemistry- ED OTOOLE is working for the Cali­fornia Ilighwcy Department in Marx'sville, Calif. BILL OWENS will be at L.S.U. where he will be studying petroleum geology". After his schooling Is finished he will work for Shell Oil in Kilgorc, Texas. 
TOM PATRICK plans to work for Vonnegut Hardware In Indianapolis. On July 5, be married Miss Ann Padgett in thi:t city. JOE PELLIGRINO will enter the'St. Tliomas Seminary. ^LI.T. will be seeing STEVE PIACSEK; he will study theo­retical physics. JIM PINK has been hired at the Abbot Laboratories in Chicago. My roommate JIM FOLEY has decided not to study any more history and will do graduate work toward an .\LB.A. at California. STEVE POWER will teach math at RIchwoods High School In Peoria. In addition lie will be head cross countr>* coach and assistant basketball co^ich. He will tr>' to find enough spare time so that on .August 16 he can marrv' Miss Patricia Dcbclak In Lincoln, Illinois. HENRY PRASK will be studying physics at N.D. 
BILL RADKE heads for Illinois for electrical engineering. NICK RiVNIERI will sell Insurance (Metropolitan Life) in Chicago Heights. CHET Ri\YMO was married on June 14 to Miss Maureen Slerett in Hollj^vood, Florida. Hughes Aircraft will be his part time emplovcr while he goes to 
U.C.L.A. to study physics. BL.ASDELL RE.\RDON will be found at Carnegie Tech In industrial man­agement. CLi\RK REARDON will be at Columbia seeking an M.B.A. BILL REES Is an accountant with Arthur Young & Co. in Chicago. KEVIN REILLY will be setting the world afire In the stock market; he is going to work In the Rellly firm in Jersey City. BOB REM.M will be at Wright Patterson in Dayton. TIM RICE goes into the nurscr\- business In Geneva, N. Y. He will be witli Maxwell, Bowdcn & Rice, Inc. JOE RICH will be with Monsanto In St. Louis. DOUG RILEY is putting his engineering know-how to work for CommomveaUh Ed-son in Illinois. BILL ROBERT­SON is another accountant who has been hired by Arthur Young & Co. He will be working In Kansas City. The- University of AVisconsin will attempt to make a murmage banker out of PAT ROGERS. R/VLPH ROGERS returns to N.D. to do graduate work in correctional administration. BOB ROGERS is with Avionics In South Bend. GERRY ROGOWSKI will study for an M.A. In liistor>' at Michigan State when he Is separated from tlie Marine Corps. ED RYAN will be work­ing for an iLB.A. at Stanford. JAY RYAN is another of the Wharton men. He will be In business administration. 
GERRY SALETTA will take adx-antage of a fellowship and study electrical engineering at N.D. Wedding bells rang In Springfield, Illinois, on June 7 for JOHN SAXER and Miss Mar>- Ann McNcr­ney. RAY SCHMITT also returns to N.D. for grad work; he'll study sociology. FRiVNK SCOTT plans to teach at Charters Valley Joint School in Scott Township. Pa. (No, the township Is not named after Frank, not yet anj^vay.) JOHN SENG reports that he will soon be asked to defend his country-, John inquires. "Does the armv allow hi-fi sets?" BOB SER/\FIN will take up servo mechanisms at Northwestern. DON SH^VNLEY will be doing accounting and sales work for the. Strealor Foundry in Strcator, Illinois. MIKK SHANNON will seek an M.B.A. at Stanford. BILL SHAUGHNESSY is with the American Machlncrv- 5: Foundry In Stamford. Conn. BILL SHERMAN'S talents will be utiliVcd by the Sherman Bros. Mill Supply in Louisville. WALT SMITHE was married on July 5 to Miss Florence Flynn. When the army is out of the way Walt will give his attention to Smithe & Shanahan, Inc. in a sales capacity. CHUCK SOLOMON is going with MuIIhofer Inc., a wholesale druggist; he will be working in Bakersfield, Calif. BOB SPAHN will work for the Carl P. Spahn Insurance Acenc%­in Chicago while attending law school. CHUCK SPETH married Miss Mar\- .Alice Gatto in India­napolis on June 8. JOHN STECZYNSKI con­tinues his art study at Yale. ED STUBENR.AUCH has a full slate of pl?ns. He was married on June 7 to Miss Patricia Copeman in Oione Park, N. Y.; he has a Job with Union Carbide in the marketing department; and he heads for the Persian Gulf with the U. S. Nai-y. BILL STURGIS, the Memphis Flash, will bless Standard Oil with his 
labor—after Uncle Sam has exacted Itis full due for all tlio'c Rotcic checks. CHARLEY SUSANO is with Touchc, Nivcn, Bailey & Smart in New York—accounting, of course. R/\Y SWEENEY is also one of thi^ many who shouldered the matri­monial yoke on June 7. He wed Miss Joan Pinter in Lindenjurst, N. Y. DICIC SW^EET-NtAN promises to let us know if he ever decides to do anything. 
JACK TATIGIJWJ is with Peter Paul, Inc. in. Naugatuck, Conn., making all those "Mounds" bars. BOB TAYLOR is a management trainee with Vick Chemical, in New York. ED THOMx\S will be selling for S. N. Tliomas' Sons in Jackson. Miss. Ife doesn't say what he is selling. DICK THO.MAS is with International Telephone & Tele­graph in Chicago. JOHN TIBERI lists himself as a junior executive with Allied Concrete Supply Co. of Chicago. LEROY TODD takes up physical organic chemistry at Florida State in the fall. ALFREDO TORRUELLO will be at Yale studying physics. PAUL TRtUNOR is a member of the General Electric organization in Pittsficld, Mass. He is enrolled in their acconnting.financc training program. PAT TRECICMAN is in Denver with the Petroleum Research Corp. doing hydrodynamics and geological research. DALE VANDENBERG works for the .Michigan State Highway Department; he is a civil engineer. DUANE VAN DYKE seeks an 
M.B.A. at Southern Calif. JIM VEGH has a job with W. T. Grant Co. but first has to serve his uncle (Samuel). PETE VOL.\NTE works for Sikorsky Aircraft in Bridgeport, Conn. 
BOB WALCZY will do technical writing for the National Cash Register Co. in Dayton. I would like to say something about HOOT WALSH but for the first time ir. four years he has nothing to tell us. TO.M WALSH will marry Miss Mary Margaret (Bambi) Myers on August 23. at N.D. He plans to try for a Ph.D. at California in the field of organic chemistry with the view" of becoming a professor. BILL WALSH wants to go to Michi­gan to study chemical engineering. DICK WALTZ tvill marry Miss Beverly Frattura in Akron on .•\ugnst 16. Then he will come back to South Bend for more work in mech:mlcal engineering. JOHN WARD retires with his title of Frisbee champ and turns to the Marine Corps. KEN WARSH is taking up nuclear physics at N.D. BOB WASKO was also married on June 21; he works with the National .•\dvisory Committrc for Aeronautics in Cleveland. His bride was Miss Joan Novak. JIM WATERS Is with American Cyanimid in Wallingford, Conn. ED WATSON works with the Philadelphia Electric Co. His nights will be spent in night school at Temple. AL WEINSHEIMER will be with the Magill-Weinheimcr Co. until he is drafted. On July 26 he and Miss Sheila Phoenix were married in Wilracltc. GUY WEISMANTEL is also working with O'Brien Paint Corp. in South Bend. B. J. WILHELMS Wis a June 7 bridegroom: his bride was Miss Marcia Mack, and the wedding was in Rocky River, Ohio. ED WILLETTE is doing some kind of engineering work for Chippcwa-Plastics, Inc. in Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin. JIM WILLUMS plans to study education at Illinois. DICK WILL­SON walks the aisle on August 30 with Miss Mary-Ann Leonard in Grand Rapids, Michigan.^ The Equitable Life Assurance Co. has signed Dick for sales work in Rockford, Illiaois. BOB WOJCIK has been hired by Arthur Andersc.l & Co, for work in Chicago (accounting). TO.M ^VOLOHAN will work for the Wickes Corp.. a lumber concern, in Saginaw, Mich. GARY WYDRA is with Northrop Aircraft in Los Angeles. 
JIM ZILLES is enjoying wedded bliss with Miss Beverly Fowler; the date was June 7, and the place was Green Bay, Wisconsin. 
One more before I forget—JOHN (LITTLE C:\E­
SAR) RUSSO is on ni> way to becoming a giant of comnwrce. He is in the training program of Geriz Department Store in Jamaica, Long Island. 
It seems that the Class of '58 is going to produce its share of M.D.'s and lau-ycrs. Your secretary will be at the Notre Dame Law School and will have the company of: FRANK BRIORDY, TOM CLUSSERATH, PAUL COFFEY, TO.M ERBS, 

i JOHN GAGLIARDINI, JIM GOETHALS, JOHN HIRSCHFELD, L.\RRY HOWARD, BOB HOUSE, JACK MARTZELL, CHARLEY McGILL, JOHN SULLIVAN, and ED OTOOLE. I'm looking forward to this fall's football weekends wiiich should be semi-reunions for our class. We hope to sec a lot of you men who are already out seeking your 
• fortunes. 
Other would-be la«-\crs arc: DREW AMAN, FRED GENOVESE, JERRY KRAUSE, ED MEELL, CHARLEY SHANE, and PHIL TIERNEY who arc all heading for Georgetown; LOU BOSCO, PHIL GAGNON, and B. J. ^VILHELMS are going to Detroit; BOB i\NSPACH, CON HUBNER, and JIM SIMONELLI go to California; TIM MUR­TAUGH, BILL .McDO.VALD, and JOHN SITTIG will be at .Michigan; JOE RE;\M and JOE BUM­BLEBURG at Indiana; JIM GAULRAPP and PAT HUGHES at Lovola; JOE MADDEN and BOB SPAHN at DePaul. JERRY .McNAMARA and L,\RRY PASSARELL;\ will attend Northwestern; DAVE McMAHON and DON REILLY go to Fordham: and REMY FR,\NSON will go to Har­vard. ALFRED ALLEN enrolls at Illinois; MARTY HANAFIN at Albanv; ROS BOTTUM at South Dakota; JOE FORE.MAN at Toronto; GENE LEY\'AL at Loyola of Los Angeles; JOE HEBERT and GENE KERVIN at Texas; RICK NINNEMAN at Marquette; HENRY RHEINBERGER at Okla­homa; and PAUL UNDERKOFLER at Virginia. 

The med school, around the country will see a representative number of N.D. graduates this fall. Here is a quick rundown. Lovola: DAVE AYERS, BILL LEMIRE, TO.M -MEIRINK, JOHN PICKEN, JERRY WALKER, and .MYLES WALSHE. North­western: .MIKE HERM.AN, P.AT HOG.\N, BILL SCANLON, and D.WE ZONIES. Georgetown: JOHN D'ELIA, DICK DWANE, JOHN KEN­NEDY, ED SHALIIOUB, and ED WALSH, DePaul: JOHN CL.MR and JACK CRILLY. BulTalo: OWES BOSSM,\N, DICK ADAMY, and MIKE .MADDEN. St. Louis: PAUL BUTLER, JOE EM­.MITE, D.WE KR,\MP, JIM MURR,VY. Pcnnsvl­rania: JOHN CHOBY, BOB LENAR, FR,\NK PUGLIESE, JOHN (APPLES) .McDO.VALD. Michigan: JOHN ENGELS, JOHN HENZEL, and TOM KAISER. Johns HopVns: JOE ROMEO and TONY SCHORK. Temple: ARCH FEES and DICK CO.NSIDINE. New York Medic.nl College: DON .MESEC and CHUCK .McDERMOTT. JelTcrson Medical School: JOHN DE BENEDICTUS and JIM BUTCOFSKI. BOB C..\LL.\GHAN WTII be at Chicago, NORM BLINSTRUB at Marquette; JOH.N BOTTIGLIONE, Seton Hall: MARK BR.AD­LEY, Maryland; JOHN BURNS, Vermont; .MIKE &VTj\NZr\RO, Duquesne; WALT DEGNAN, Cor­nell; PAT FLAN.\G.AN, Tulanc: CHESTER .MOR­RIS, Louisville; and BOB PIVONK.A, Colorado. 
Of course the military has claimed many of our classmates. In the Marine Corps at Quantico arc: ED BANKS, STEVE BARRETT, JI.M BE.N.ME, CHARLEY BROWN, BOB BYRNES, JACK CAR­PENTER, BERNIE COOPER, GARY COOPER, RON DE MATTEO, WALT DONNELLY, .MIKE GLEASO.V, JOE HEIMOSKI, JI.M INDIVERI, DAN IR^^•IN, ROGER KILEY. DICK KWAK, JACK L;\ND, MIKE LEYDEN, TO.M .M,\XWELL, DICK MEYER, GEORGE MITCHELL, JOHN .McGINLEY, NEIL O'BRYAN, GERRY PASTUL,\, BILL REISERT, JOHN RILEY, GER,\RD RO­GOWSKI, CHUCK SPETH, R,\Y SWEENEY, MIKE UNDERWOOD, JOHN WARD, ED WAR­NICKE, DICK WILLSON, PAUL WILSON, D.WE WOLL, and RIP ZURLO. 
The .Army has the largest contingent, as is to be expected. At Fort Lee. Va.: BOB DUFFY, BOB DWTER, FRANK FO.X, DICK KOHLER, .MAR­VIN KO.MINIAREK, FRED KREUSCH, JERRY MAURER, BOB McHALE, DON McNEILL, BOB PROBST, BILL SE.\NOT, BILL STURGIS, ED THO.M.AS, and JI.M VEGH. Fort Bcnning gets: ED BUCKLEY, BOB GAYDOS, B0 6 JOHNSON, JOHN KLE.MMER, TO.M O'BRIEN, HUGH PLUNKETT, BILL REE.S, ALPHONSE VAN BESEIN, JOHN WALSH, GEORGE ZINK, Fort Sill, Oklahoma. CLAUDE HEATH, FRANK KUCHTA, JOHN MULVIHILL, BILL MURPHY, DON RONEY, PHIL VAN DER KARR, and JOHN MADDEN. Fort Gordon, Ga.: BILL BUS­CEMI and JOHN DRUMM. Fort Devcns, Mass.: JOHN DE\VES, JOHN GL.WIN, and GERRY McCABE. Fort Benjamin Harrison: GERRY GENOVESE, BILL SIGLER, and WALT SMITHE. Aberdeen Provhig Grounds: GEORGE GLASGOW, BRLXN .MORRISSEY, and GUY ^VEIS.^lANTEL. Fort Leonard Wood: TOM KING and JI.M WIL­HEL^^ Fort Monmouth, N. J.: DICK LYNCH, TOM SMITH, and DICK TOOLE. Fort Knox: BILL ROBERTSON and GREG KILDUFF. Fort McClellao: FRANK HEINZE and MERVEf PARK­ER. Then wc have two loners: CARL MADDA goes to Fort Eustis, Va., and JOE BRADY goes to Picatinny .Arsenal. 
The .Nai.y gets these men: MARTY ALLEN; VIC AUSTIN—U.S.S. Rainier; BILL CARRY—U.S.S. Wasp; BOB COLAIZZI—Newport, R.L; KEVIN CON.NELLY-U.S.S. George Clj-mcr; DAVE COW­DRILL—U.&.S. Pocor-o; BOB GUSHING—U.S.S. Bon Homme Richard: BILL DOTTERWEICH— 
U.S.S.
 Marshall; TOPPER FARRELL—U.S.S. Rigcl; BERNIE GESSNER — U.S.S. Thuban; .lACQUE HUBER—U.S.S. Mount McKinlcy; JIM KALLAL—Treasure Island. Calif; BOB KIEF —Pcnsacola Air Station; JOHN LIESKE—Little­creek, Va.; TO.M LYNCH—California (?); BRUCE -MALEC—Yokosuka, Japan; BOB 3lL\RR— Great Lakes; DICK MURPHY—San Diego; TOM MURPHY—Little Creek, Va.; JERRY .McNABB— Port Huencmc, California; JIM McNAJlARA-

U.S.S.
 Lake Champlain; HARRY MsSTEEN—San Diego; CHUCK O'BRIEN—U.S.S. Witek; PETE O'CONNOR—Port Huencmc; L^VRRY PELTON— 

U.S.S.
 Forrenal; JOE RYAN—U.S.S. AVhitchall; JOHN SAXER—Po.- Hueaeme; JIM TRINO—San Diego; BOB TWOMBLEY—Newport, and MIKE V.\N DE.MARK—San Diego. 


Finally, the Air Force has claimed a group. Which one of these men is the next Curtis LcMay? JACK BARTHE^-Dow AFB, Bangor, Me.; NICK BARTOLINI—Tyndall AFB, Panama City, Florida; SERGIUS BERNARD—Spokane; JOHN HART­NETT—Kcjselet AFB, Bdoxi; CHARLEY KILB— Tyndall; GEORGE LIDDLE; PAUL PIKELL—Mc Coy AFB; ALOIS R«IKUS—Lackland AFB, San Antonio; JOE SCHAFER — Lackland; DON SCHUTT—Lackland; JOHN TIBERI—Lackland; BOB WHEARTY—Lackland; and JOE WOOD— Wright Patterson AFB, Dayton. 
Well, that does it for this time. Now, let's have some news coming my \*"ay so that I'll Iiavc some­thing to write for the next Issue. 
From the Alumni Office: 

Mead Johnson & Company, nutritional and pharmaceutical manufacturer, has announced the ap­pointment of WILLUM M. DONOVAN as an in­dustrial engineer with the company's manufacturing division in Evanston, Indiana. 
Rev. Arthur Hope, C.S.C. (right), author of "Notre Dame, 100 Years," preaches a last scmion to Holy Cross nims departing from the campus after 113 years of devoted service. Only five will remain to care for altar linens and staff the student infirmary. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1938 71 
Notre Datne Library Notre Dame, Indiana 
Oj/lice. of lUe PfteUdent 
The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
Fellow Alumni: . Evansville, Indiana, July 23, 1958 
Magazine schedules are such that by die time this message reaches you events will have taken place and 
decisions will have been reached that may well be the biggest news of the summer. 
In particular I'm speaking about the summer session of the Alumni Association Board of Directors, com­
bined this year with the 1958 Council of Alumni Club Presidents and due, at this M'riting, to open tomorrow 
and continue through July 27. 

On the eve of these important meetings it might be a good idea to collect some thoughts about the Juncture of Alumni affairs at tliis moment, based on happenings of the past iow months. Those happenings —a colossal world-wide tribute to Our Lady's School on Universal Notre Dame Night, the recent graduation of another bumper crop of Notre Dame Men, the record-breaking 1958 Class Reunions which strained the physical rosaurc^ oi our campus—all will have a tremendous impact on our deliberations of the next few days. 
The Alumni Board has several serious matters to consider, suggi^ted by these and otlier events—but more on that later. Perhaps better than anything else, the story of 1958's Universal Notre Dame Night dram­atizes the growth and development of the Notre Dame Club system and the special appropriateness of joint meetings between our board and the Club Presidents Council. 
U. N. D. Night, as celebrated with great variety by nearly 170 Alumni Clubs in North and South America, Europe, Asia and the Seven Seas, demonstrated the almos't miraculous resourcefulness of Notre Dame Clubs, of all sizes and circumstances,- Supplied with little more than a rough blueprint of procedure and tlie merest outline of a theme, these organizations develop the materials with infinite and delightful ramifications. VVitli this year's double-barrelled theme of University development and continuing intellectual endeavor, local resourcefulness was never more in evidence. Clubs of all kinds from Northern California to Boston invited representatives of area colleges and universities for serious evaluations, and the fledgeling Decatur, 111., Club billed post-prandial obscr\'ations as an "intellectual pep rally." Invitations to civic officials, distinguished prelates, national figures (including such alumni as the governor of Alaska, commander of the American Legion and several captains of industry), not to speak of campus representatives, were unsolicited nods to public relations and standard procedure for nearly all clubs, large and small. 
To say "large and small" is not to reopen the "bigness" question nor to exalt tlie "little feller." Unlike organized baseball, our club organization allows little distinction between tlie "majors" and "minors." New York or Washington, Chicago or Detroit will consistently do an excellent job of bringing pubhcity and prestige to Alma Mater, but 150 other clubs will achieve comparable (and even more striking) excellence and prestige in their own communities. These were my impressions on a U. N. D. swing through the Soiith­west. They are similar to Jim Armstrong's obser\'ations during trips to the North and East and the thoughts of Father Hesburgh, Cavanaugh and Joyce after jaunts in every direction. 
Often a small, aggressive group of Notre Damers with imagination and daring may "scoop" their col­leagues, as the Notre Dame Club of Rome, Italy, has proved repeatedly this year. The "big" clubs all had their growing pains but, population changes being what they are, a new club of amazing potential, like that of Orange County, Calif., may bloom at any moment. 
These are a few of the facts whose implications will concern Vice-President Ed Haggar and myself in conferences with the Club Presidents. The proportions of the recent reunion indicate problems that will occupy Vice-President Gene Kennedy in future contact with class officers. And the growth of our University entails several problems to be taken up now by the board, among them administration, admissions, atliletics, placement, student affairs, university developtnent and the possibility of adult education programs. 
Perhaps I'll be able to report progress in some of these areas next time. 
. -. Sincerely, 

'Francis L. "Mike" Layden President 
PRINTCO AT AVE MARIA PRESS 






