The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

w^^^^^ 
m 

SI3,000,000 
'^£NC£ HALL6 '• 
>^'Mmmr7r^'j 
^rnc^­
m 
g'^St



'^smmm^m
M :m^%: 

VOLUME 39 . NUMBER 4 AUGUST-SEPTEMBER .1961 

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION, BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

Sditorial Comment 
from your Alumni Secretary 

(Foreword: Some of you may remember have borrowed from his Fables technique fund situation. ]EA) 
Once there was an Alumnus. 
He loved his Alma Mater. 
His Alma Mater loved Him. 

Love was Rampant But that was 
All. 
He had Paid his Way. Mostly. A Job here and there, and a Scholarship here and there had Helped. But on Gradua­tion Day he burned the Mortgage. 
Then Alma Mater happened on troubled Times. 
Like all the aging, outside the Wel­fare States, the instinctive cry was Son! 
Surprisingly enough, the voice of Alma Mater was still Young and Strong. The Cry got Through. 
The Alumnus helped Alma Mater. 
Alma Mater waxed again and new Sons came forth in Streams. 
But the new Streams were produced with continuing Drains. And all the Sons continued to hear the vigorous voice of Alma Mater calling Help. 
But Sons had other Relatives com­peting for Help. 
Uncle Sam was perhaps the most Demanding. 
Mother Church was another. And there were Brothers — lodge brothers, political brothers, foreign brothers, underprivileged brothers, handicapped brothers. 
And among the Sons afflicted wth this Competition, inevitably Analysis set in. 
And there arose a Phenomenon. When the space for writing in "Alma Mater Helps Sons" was studied, it was Blank, beyond the Diploma. 
a Hoosier literary great, George Ade. to express a thought or two on our 
It seems Alma Mater had also Burned the Mortgage on Graduation Day. 
Now the Scholars and the Adminis­trators and the Organizers took time out from their Meetings to Meet on this. 
And it was Generally Agreed that Mortgage Burning must Cease on Grad­uation Day. 
Sons could and ought to continue to Help. And Alma Mater could and ought to continue to Help. 
Help became Mutual. 
And like Don Marquis' Begats — Alma Mater begat Sons; the Sons begat Help; Help b^at new and better Sons; and new and better Sons begat new and better Help. 

And the voice of Alma Mater be­came more youthful and vigorous and Constructive in the Land. 
Love was Bulwarked. 
Continuing Intellectual programs dotted the Landscape. 
Honors and Publicity- accelerated Personal Progress among the Sons. 
Sons became Advisors to Alma Mater. 
Sons and Alma Mater found Pres­tige, as each Helped the Other. 
And there was Progress to gladden all hearts. 
Moral: There has to be more than Rampant Love! 
—JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, Editor 
Officers 
JOHN C. 0'CONNOR,'38 Honorary Prtsident WALTER L. FLEMING, JR.,'40 President PAUL J. GUSHING,'31 Fund Vice-President JAMES J. BYRNE,'43 Club Vice-President 
W. EDMU.VD SHEA, '23 Class Vice-President JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 
.Executive Secretary 
Directors to 1962 
JAMES J . BYRNE, '43 
Byrne Plywood Co. Royal Oak, Michigan . PAUL J. GUSHING, '31 Hydraulic Dredging Go. Oakland, California WALTER L. FLEMING, JR., '40 Fleming & Sons, Inc. 
P.O.
 Box 1291, Dallas, Texas 

W.
 EDMUND SHEA, '23 Third National Bank Bldg. Dayton, Ohio 




Directorsto 1963 
MAURICE CARROLL, '19 5743 Delmar Blvd.­St. Louis 12, Missouri 
ROGER J. HUTER, '40* Huter-Quest Go. i 833 W. Main St. ' Louisville, Kentucky 
WILLIAM P. MAHONEY, JR., '38 612 Arizona Bank Bldg. Phoenix, .Arizona 
HARRY J. MEHRE, '22 686 Greenwood Ave., N.E. Atlanta 6, Georgia 

Directorsto 1964 
JOHN P, DEMPSY, '49 Kidder, Pcabody & Co. 123 S. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY, '50 4909 34th Avenue, S. . Minneapolis, Minnesota ' 
WILLIAM H . FALLON, '37 18 Boston Post Rd. Larchmont, New York 
OLIVER H . HUNTER, '43 F.B.L, P.O. Box 23 New Castle, Pennsylvania 
• Appointed to fit! unexpired term of Gcoisc Con­nor, '4B, who resigned under pressure of business. 

Cliainnen of the 1961 Committees 
WALTER FLEMING Executive JAMES BYRNE Club Activities 
W. EDMUND SHEA Class Activities PAUL CUSHI.NG 
Alumni Fund, Foundation and Gifts. JAMES J. BYRNE Preparatory School^ JOHN DEMPSEY-
Placement and Job Counseling 
W. EDMUND SHEA Inter-Alumni Affairs WiLUAM MAHONEY, JR 
Prestige and Public Relations 
MAURICE CARROLI 
Religion and Citizenship 
W. EDMUND SHEA AND JAMES BYRNE 
Nominations HARRY MERRE Budget and Finance WILLIAM MAHO.VEY, JR Resolutions 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of, Notre Dame,H~.JCotit. .• Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Post Office.: i^ot.l;; ( Dame, Ind. under the act of Aug. 24, 1912.' ' 







CHALLENGE! 
YOUR PART IN THE GENERAL APPEAL PROGRAM OF THE NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION, 1961-1963 
THIS IS IT! 

This is the moment of truth — the simple truth that Notre Dame needs your support in its most critical finan­cial challenge. 
^ This is the moment of decision — your decision as to the part you will play in meeting this challenge. 
On Tuesday, October 17, 1961, the General Appeal to all alumni and friends, to meet this challenge, will be launched in 179 simultaneous Notre Dame Foundation Rally meetings in all of the Local Alumni Club cities in the U.S. 
In the larger cities, this Rally will be featured by a national telephone 
.^ookup — with Father Hesburgh, Gen­eral Campaign Chairman Peter Grace, General Appeal Chairman Joseph I. O'Neill, '36, Honorary Chairman I. A. O'Shaughnessy, and other Notre Dame leaders included in the fast-paced pro­gram. 
Bv" JASIES E. ARJfSTRONG, '25 
Alumni Secretary 

All cities will schedule a film featur­keynotes. ing Father Hesburgh, with audio-\'isual August 27-28 the City Chairmen who presentation of the Program for the will direct the local solicitation of Future which this General Appeal alumni and friends in this General 
GENERAL APPEAL CHAIRA4AN: JOSB>H I. O'NEIU, JR. 
Joe O'Neill is a member of the Notre Dame Class of 1936 and resides in Midland, Texas. An Independent oil operator, he was formerly associated with securities and insurance companies and was an agent of the Federal Bureau of In­vestigation. In these capacities he has lived in cities throughout the U. S. As a student he won monograms for varsity football and basketball. Recently he served as president and a director of the national Notre Dame Alumni Association, and he is now an alumni member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees. Joe is married, has a 
Mr. O'Neill daughter and three sons. 
^Bntrance to Notre Dame's Memorial Library, depicted in this artist'ssketch, gives some idea of the formidable proportioiis of this impressive structure. Preparations for the construction work are already in progress on the Library, which wiU occupy two acres and will be located on the east side of the campus near the former location of the University Drill HalL 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, I96I 
Campaign are being given tlie details below cost, because of the sacrifice of which success will take us on a shorty) of their programs in a meeting on the alumni and friends who went before cut to fulfillment, or failure could lose Universit)' campus. you. us in the shadows of secondary achieve­
Target in December 
Between October 17 and December 15 it is the goal of tlie Foundation, aided by tlie Local Alumni Clubs, and alumni cverJ^vhe^e, and backed by tlie full support of tlie Alumni Association through its Board of Directors, to make a peisonal appeal to even- alumnus and friend of Notre Dame. 
Participation should achieve an all-time high. Odier schools, notably Dart­moutli and Princeton, have achieved better than 70% alumni participation. We believe that with tliis challenge, and with the effective personal solicitation of the 5,000 dedicated Committee members tlie task will require, Notre Dame can set an all-time high in alumni response. 
-Amount must achieve a new dimen­sion. Tlie Annual Alumni Fund (which will retain its continuity by crediting all pledge pa>'nients within each year dur­ing tliis tliree-year program) has stressed participation, and this is vital. It has praised the small gift, and this is basic as principle. But during tliis cliallenge for the major goal involved, alumni must give from a capital gift concept. 
Payments on gifts of any size, and many must be major gifts to meet our goal, may be made annually, quarterly, monthly, or as desired. 
Reasons for Generosity 
There aie familiar arguments for asking this generous participation. Your benefits from Notre Dame came to vou 
Your income — as a member of an average alumni group — is some §100,­000 higher in your individual lifetime tlian that of your non-college neighbor. 
Your gifts are tax deductible, in fact over a tliree-ycar period. They also fall widiin the religious and charitable in­terpretation of the Church trend to­ward titliing. 
But these are arguments tliat have been advanced to you and to many. 
The mechanics of die General Ap­peal are familiar to most of you who have borne the heat and the burden of parish, diocesan, ciwc, and philan­diropic campaigns in your community. 
Potential for Greatness 
The difference, and the significance, of diis Appeal is that it represents tlie one time in Notre Dame's long and distinguished histor)' when the Uni­versity' has been set apart from all other Catholic colleges and universities; tlie one time tliat it has been designated by a tliorougli and objective Ford Founda­tion study as one of 5 universities in America wiUi tlie immediate potential for greatness: it represents tlie one time diat an appeal of this magnitude has been made with tlie almost miraculous bonus of a massive matching gi-ant of 50% for successful performance. 
This, then, is not just an appeal to your understanding of fund-raising. 
It is not just an appeal to you as an alumnus to do something. 
It is quite possibly the single most critical turning point in Notre Dame's rise to its destinv— the crossroads from 

ment 
Your Help Expected 
Your decision, involving personal and financial sacrifice, involving work and understanding, is essential to the Gen­eral Appeal. 
However misleading large numbers and large amounts may seem, or liow||; tempting sometimes the thought that we may not be missed among so many 
— die only key to success in this one great effort will be the personal partici­pation by you. 
When your Committee asks your help, please be ready. Your reason will ad\'ise you to give. Let your heart en­dorse this and add tlie word "gener­ously." Your satisfaction, and your sta­ture as an alumnus or member of the Notre Dame family of friends, will grow^ as tlie multiplication of your individual efforts spells out the ultimate success that is inevitable for this General Ap­peal. 
I was a student during tlie first En­dowment Campaign. I helped launch the first Alumni Fund. I helped launch the present Annual Alumni Fund. I was avecutive Vice-Chairman of the Foun­dation program when it was organized. I worked on tiie Rockne Memorial campaign. I mention these pei'sonallt' background items, because I want to add in all sincerity that in my judg­ment, this is the most vital financial program in tlic history of Notre Dame. Its success is imperative, its failure un­thinkable. 
This is it! 
€ 

FATHER HESBURGH MR. O'SHAUGHNESSV MR. GRACE FATHER WALSH 
By film, tape and tclepbonc hookup, participants in Notre Dame Rally — October 17 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September, 1961 

Chronology of an Appeal 
I. The Program of immediate concern is the Program for the Future, the raising of $18,000,000 in a three-year period M'hich began in July, 1960, and ends July, 1963. 
II. The name derives not from any uniqueness in pur­siung a program for the future, but from the sudden and magnificent challenge of the Ford Foundation conditional grant of $6,000,000, if $12,000,000 is raised within this pe­riod by the University from alumni and friends, cvclusive of government and Ford Foundation grants. 
III. The histor)' of fund-raising at Notre Dame began a year before its founding. When Father Sorin arrived at Notre Dame in 1842, he had already been given the land and carried with him a letter of credit for some $400. 
IV.
 But the histor)' of fund-raising at Notre Dame is also distinctive in tlie achievement of the University /ivith rela­tively little financial aid or appeal. Notre Dame had cele­brated its Diamond Jubilee before it began its first en­dowment campaign. 

V.
 The University today, in spite of endowment growth to approximately $30,000,000, remains among the least en­dowed of the leading American universities and colleges, and in spite of this handicap has, in many areas of accom­plishment, moved into this van of American higher educa­tion. 


VI. Alumni have always been responsive to the Univer­sity's modest and infrequent appeals. The Centennial in 1941-42 saw the launching of the Annual Alumni Fund, one hundred years after the founding. As an evidence of coop­eration and appreciation, in spite of World ^Var II and its disruption of University and alumni life, the Fund has pro­gressed steadily, becoming one of the top ten alumni funds in the country in participation by alumni and in amount given by alumni. 
Vil. In the formation of the Foundation, die Alumni As­sociation took a leading part. It recognized that the Uni­versity, in the postwar ei"a, would need a continuous long-range fund-i-aising program. The Alumni Association pro-gi-am itself deals widi the total product of the University, the total alumnus — the spiritual, intellectual, cultural, fra­ternal, and social, as well as die economic. 
Similarly, the Local Alumni Clubs and the Classes deal with the total alumni program and identity. So the Founda­tion City Committee was set up to work with the Clubs and to perform the economic function of local alumni fimd-
Natre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 
raising for the University, while the Classes are being asked now to look to the Class Treasurer to perform this function, so that the President, Vice-presidents, and Secretary can con­tinue their commitment to tlie total program outside the economic. 
VIII. The first major postwar campaign was tlic far-reaching, significant and seemingly visionary $25,000,000 asked for in 1948. From this vision and foresight, the Uni­versity moved rapidly in the achievement of thb program to new buildings, facultj' salarj' increases, e-vpanded research grants, endowment fund accumulation development, publi­cation of learned material, representation in learned societies, and the many phases oli higher education prestige by which leading institutions are measured. 
Alumni response in this program was continuous and encouraging, not only to die Universit)', but primarily, and far more significantly, to tlie decisions of non-alumni philan­thropists, corporations and foundations to lend tlieir support. 
IX.
 Not because of success or because of die value of momentum or because of any general intent to cushion itself, but because the opening of opportunities within the 1948-58 period brought so many more and unforeseen op­portunities, and because in addition to the opportunities, tlie emergence of Notre Dame as a major university brought obligations which quickly projected a completely inadequate financial structure to meet them, Notre Dame decided it must look further ahead. On tlie basis of tliis analysis, the Univereity announced a new 10-ycar program of develop­ment in tlie areas of needed buildings, facult)' salary im­provement, student aid, administrative implementation, and endowment for research of a basic nature. The minimum estimate of funds required for tiiese projected ends totalled §66,600,000. 

X.
 The new program was just two years under way when the Ford Foundation made its challenging and generous oflier to Notre Dame — as one of five American universities, and the only Catiiolic institution so designated — to ^ve an unrestricted $6,000,000 within a three-year period if the University, through its own eflforts and the channels of support which had already extended substantial aid, could raise $12,000,000 witiiin this three years. 


XI. Notre Dame had already, in December of 1959, an­nounced plans for a new and sorely needed Library, which would spearhead the second 10-year program. 
XII. On receipt of the Ford announcement it was evident that a larger and more intensive concept of the three-year challenge must be launched. ^Vith the e.vclusion of govern­ment funds, which constitute a substantial part of research grants, and the Ford Foundation grants, which had already aided the University in several areas, it was decided that the Foundation would take a three-year segment of its projected long-range program, which averaged some $6,000,000 an­nually, total, and create an immediate Program for the Future of $18,000,000, which would include die New Li­brary, but also s^ments of the Faculty Salary fund, the Student Aid Fund, the Administrative Fund and additional research programs. 
 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 
Thb is our present program, to be achieved by July, 1963.' 
XIII. But there is another significance to the present Pro­gram for the Future, distinct from the historical and eco­nomic phases covered in the preceding points. 
This challenge of the Ford Foundation, which has already established Notre Dame as a serious candidate for greatness among the colleges and universities of our country, can have a meaning far greater than tiie generous amount encom­passed by its physical terms. 
If Notre Dame meets thb challenge, we believe we wilK have establbhed ourselves as permanent holders of the prior­ity of quality and dbtinction and achievement and recog­nition, which in turn lead so inevitably to the continued support of all forms of philanthropy. 
If Notre Dame accomplbhes this first major feat in its move toward destiny, then that destiny will be shared by many sources which can accelerate and multiply its fruits. 
This b the real meaning of Future as we have incor­porated it in die present project — die project which vnW need all your traditional interest and endiusiasm and loyalty, all your past generosity multiplied to meet the new needs of' a great moment in our hbtor)', all your aid in contacting odier Notre Dame men and friends who will willingly share thb moment of great decbion if they understand its real meanin? — our Program for the Future. 
XIV. To implement thb Program for the Future, the Foundation b organizing during the summer a working group of 5,000 alumni— dirough the usual personal solicita­tion techniques — under the direction of a veteran group of generous volunteers. 
Your general chairman for diis general campaign b a former president of the Alumni Association, a monogram man from the famous Ohio State tradition, who knows die East by origin, the State of Texas by business interests, Flor­ida by a home there, and the wide world by travel and friends —Joseph L O'Neil, Jr., '36. 
The State Governors and City Chairmen have long been a vital part of the Foundation program, and wiW be aug­mented by the necessary additional workers for the major move ahead. 
Beginning on October 17 and ending on December 15, the Foundation expects to give every Notre Dame alumnus an opportunity to participate in thb once-in-a-lifetime chal­lenge. 
The commitment will be on a three-year basis. 
It should be different from the usual token gift to the Annual Fund which most of you traditionally make — the great majority of our contributions have been only $10 and under. 
Plan now to participate, and to cooperate with the many# other volunteer workers who will bring thb AU-American effort to a championship conclusion. 
By Rev. John E. Walsh, '45 
Director, Notre Dame Foundation (condensed from remarks at the Annual Alumni Banquet, June 10, 1961) 
NEEDLESS TO SAY, as Director of the Notre Dame Foundation, I was very happy to accept the invitation of Mr. James Armstrong, Executive Secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, to join Mr. Walter Fleming, President of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, and Father Hesburgh, President of the 
9 University of Notre Dame, on this pro­gram. It is a great pleasure for me to be w\\h. you this evening and I come to you, as loyal and deeply committed members of the Notre Dame family, at a time of family crisis and a Ume of unprecedented Notre Dame family op­portunity. 
I am ver)' happy to thank the Presi­dent of the Notre Dame Alumni Asso­ciation, Mr. Walter Fleming, and the members of the Alumni Board for the enthusiastic endorsement they have given to the plans of the Notre Dame Foundation. You will be hearing fre­quently this evening that Notre Dame will be counting more heavily than ever during the next three years on its alumni and its friends. For my part, I have been greatly encouraged by the enthusiasm of your President, your Board, and your Executive Secretary. 
Range of Possibilities 
BEFORE SPEAKING briefly of our present activities and our plans in the Notre Dame Foundation, I would like to tell you of two interesting things, among many, which have happened in our office since I have been there. These two simple little episodes will give you some idea of the range of our 
WALTER L. FLEMING, JR., '40, of Dallas, Texas, natioDal president of the Notre Dame Alumni Assn., gives his "State of the Association" address at the Alumni Banquet. President Fleming has condensed his remarks in the letter on the back cover. 

The Program and Plans of the Notre Dame Foundation 
possibilities in the present Notre Dame Foundation program. 
One morning, I opened a letter from a young man who had graduated from Notre Dame in 1957. The letter contained a check for $147.50. It also contained a brief note of explanation. This young man mentioned that he had graduated from Notre Dame as a cii'il engineer and had gone immediately into the ser\'ice. .After doing his tour of duty in the service, he took a job as a civil engineer. His note explained that he was sending to the University of Notre Dame his first week's paycheck, $147.50, He said he thought it appropriate that his first week's entire paycheck should go to Notre Dame because there he had learned not only how to be a civil engineer but more im­portant how to be a human being. 
You can be sure that we in the Founda­he had decided to give to the University of Notre Dame $65,000. He had never attended the University and, in fact, had no direct connection of any kind with the University. He said that he had long admired the Uni­versity and that he wanted this great Catho­lic institution to have the major share of his life savings. To prove it he had actually brought the $65,000 with him to the office. 

The Alumni Background 
You WILL GUESS, too, that Father Hes­burgh and all of us in the Foundation Office thought that this, as well, was a great tribute to the University from which you have all graduated. It was the tribute of a friend. I might add, we all thought this was a wonderful way for a man to end his career and that it was a tribute both to the 
tion Office thought this a great tribute to 
University and to the country which makes 
the University of Notre Dame. We also 
such benefactions possible. 
thought it an excellent ^vay for a Notre Dame graduate to begin his civilian career. So far as I know, all tmiversitics, includ­The second episode involves a genUeman ing the University of Notre Dame like to 
I FATHER WALSH addresses Alumni at the annual at almost the opposite end of the age scale. keep their Foundation activities, their de­
This gentleman is 81 years old. He ap­velopment programs, and their alumni asso­
reunion banquet. His remarks arc condensed here. peared in the office one day to tell us that ciations distinct, though not separate. The 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 
alumni association should never be consid­ered the fund raising wing of the univcrsit>'. The Aliunni .^sociation has activities and functions which are far broader and more comprehensive than fund raising, and we would hope ultimately, more important. Nonetheless, no great prii-ate university can operate, and it cert^nly cannot improve or expand, without a development program in which the members of the alumni association play a most important and most honorable part 
Let me tell you just a word about the history of the Notre Dame Foundation and its present actiWties before outlining for your appro\'al, and we hope, your intense activity our Foundation "Program for the Future." 
Just recently in Fort Wayne, in recogni­tion and appreciation of his pioneering and highly successful efforts in the organization of the Notre Dame Foundation, the Uni­versity presented to Mr. Harry Hogan, a distinguished alumnus, a citation of merit As a result of the pioneering and even ground breaking efforts of Mr, Harry Hogan, Father John Ca\'anaugh, and many and the generosity of the Notre Dame alumni. 
The Present Objective 
THE NET RESULT of all that has gone before is a very impressive and commend­able picture indeed. .At this very moment the University of Notre Dame stands among the top ten colleges and universities in this country in alumni funds both in participa­tion by the alumni and in amount given by alumni. Further, we were recently told by representatives of Kersting, Brown, one of the top fund raising counsels in this coun­try— incidentally all five of the universities chosen by the Ford Foundation for its Spe­cial Program in Education have made use of this same firm, that organizationally the Notre Dame Foundation is far ad\'anced over most other colleges and universities in this country. 
Nonetheless, we have a long way to go. I would like to discuss with you our present needs and our present plans. 
Every Notre Dame graduate in the world took great pride in the fact that Notre Dame was selected as one of the five colleges and universities to share in the Ford Foundation hopes to raise eighteen million dollars be-' fore the end of June, 1963. This will be considered, of course, an integral part of the ten-year projection of minimum needs total­ing sixty-six million six hundred thousand dollars which was the over-all target for the ten-year period we are now in which the Notre Dame Foundation launched in 1938. 
Our present and immediate objective, however, is the raising of eighteen million dollars by June 30, 1963. A major feature of the University's immediate "Program for the Future" of eighteen million dollars is the new Library, but this figure also includes a faculty salary fund, a student aid fund, a retirement plan for non-teaching personnel, ' and two graduate residence halls, one for Sisters. 
Now, how are we set up to achieve this target We are confident that with your help, both in giving and getting, we will not only meet but exceed our target. First of all, we realize that the meeting of Notre Dame's dreams and "program for the future" calls for much prayer, plenty of work, and the most complete kind of cooperation from our alumni and our friends. I would say that we already have a good spirit of prayer, that 
'TO GIVE. NOT ACCORDING TO YOUR MEANS. BUT ACCORDING TO 
WHAT NOTRE DAME MEANS . . . 
others, the Notre Dame Foundation is well organized and comparatively highly effec­tive. The Alumni .Association took a leading part in the formation of the Notre Dame Foundation. Special mention should be made too of the predecessor of the Notre Dame Foundation, namely, the Annual Alumni Fund. The Annual Alumni Fund, too, gave notable e\'idence of the lo>'alty Special Program in Education. Under the terms of this program, the Ford Foundation will grant to the University of Notre Dame si.\ million dollars on the condition that the University raises from its own alumni and friends tivelve million dollars. This program began in July, 1960, and ends on June 30, 1963. As part of its ten->'car, long range "Program for the Future," Notre Dame everyone in the Foundation Office as well as throughout the University, is working like ., mad, and that wc fully anticipate the whole- ''-'­hearted and loyal cooperation of our alumni and our friends. 
In the words of an alumnus who phrases it with admirable terseness, we ask you to give not according to your means but ac­cording to what Notre Dame means. 
INTERIOR SKETCH of the Notre Dame Memorial Library auditorium shows what a vital role such a facility can pby in the cultural and educational life of the University. Guest lectures, special programs, and a variety df other academic functions can be featured regtdarly throughout the year without interfoing with activities in other campus btuldings. 
6 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 



'Wkat J^otre 'Dame 
By Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
President of the University 

O
NE NEED only page through the Dome to realize that the Universitj' is a very e-xciting place, where young men spend the four best years of their life. ^Vhen I say best^ I mean spiritually, intellectually, culturally, and physi­cally too. 
The strange thing about all of this is that most Notre Dame men, at one time or another, gripe mightily about these four years while they live through them, and then 
'spend the rest of their lives fondly re-liNing these years in nostalgic recollection. 
Even Notre Dame's famous Dr. Tom Dooley wrote these lines while dying of cancer in a Chinese hospital: "Notre Dame is always in my heart. That Grotto is tlie rock to which my life is anchored. Do the students ever appreciate what they have while they have it? I know I never did. Spent most of my time being angry at the clergy at school .. . 10 p.m. bed check, absurd for a 19-year-old veteran, etc., etc., etc." 
I imagine that only a Notre Dame man can really 
I appreciate the Dome, for all the things that Notre Dame is are only faintly evoked in the pictures and captions that fill this book. \Vhat Notre Dame really if, what it evokes in the mind and heart of those of us who have lived here, all this cannot be captured in pictures, brief captions, or in my words either. 
Nonetheless, I would like to say something about the spirit of the place. First may I say that to me, and I am sure, to most Notre Dame men, it is unlike any other place on earth. I have \'isited the great shrines of France, Portugal, Ireland and Maxico, to name a few. But this is for me ever the greatest shrine of Our Lady, in fact a 
^kind of living miracle of the Mother of God. Only each Notre Dame man can say what happened to him here, in the depths of his soul. 


Kmllyjs...' 
The University, Present and Future 
Again Dr. Tom Dooley put it beautifully from his bed of pain in Hong Kong last December: 
"But just now . . . and just so many times, how I long for the Grotto. Away from the Grotto, Dooley just prays. But at the Grotto, especially now when there must be snow every^vhere and the lake is ice glass and that triangidar fountain on the left is frozen solid and all the priests are bundled in their too-large, too-long old black coats and the students wear snow boots . . . if I could go to the Grotto now, then I think I could sing inside. I could be full of faith and poetry and loveliness and know more beauty, tenderness and com­passion. This is soggy sentimentalism I know. Cold prayers from a hospital bed are just as pleasing to God as more youthful prayers from a Grotto on the lid of night. But like telling a mother in labor 'It's okay; millions have endured the labor pains and survived happy . . . you will too.' It's consoling . . . but doesn't lessen the pain. Accordingly, knowing that prayers from here are just as good as from the Grotto doesn't lessen my gnawing, yearning passion to be there." 
"To be there." How many thousands of Notre Dame men have shared in this miracle of inner transformation by being here: the broader vision of what life really means and what it offers to him who will serve; the flowering of the mind as it opens to new and broad vistas and b^;ins to realize its innate power of analyas, expression and ap­preciation of all that is good and true and beautiful; the 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 7 
youthful generosity and idealism and strength of character that come from daily contact with Our Lord and His Blessed Mother — in tlie Mass and Holy Communion, at the Grotto, in the quiet shadows of a hall chapel, under the vaulted ceiling of Sacred Heart Church, glancing up at that golden vision above tlie Dome, silhouetted against the blue of the heavens by day and the dark of sky by night. Who can tell of the miracles of grace wrought here in the inner depths of the human spirit. Again Dr. Dooley touches the responsive chord: 
"Whenever my cancer acts up . . . and it is certainly acting up now, I turn inward a bit . . . more do I think of one Divine Doctor, and my personal fund of grace. Is it enough? I have monstrous phantoms . . . as all men do. But I try to exorcise them wdtli all the fury of the Middle Ages. And inside and outside tlie %%dnd blows. But when the time comes, like now, then the storm around me does not matter. The winds within me do not matter. Nothing human or earthly can touch me. A wilder storm of peace gatliers in my heart, ^Vhat seems unpossessable, I can possess. What seems un­fathomable, I can fathom. AVhat is unutterable, I can utter. Because I can pray. Because I can communicate. How do people endure anything on eartli if they can­not have God." 
M
AYBE THIS gives US the clue as to why Notre Dame is a ver)' special place. Many universities have grown j too large and too famous to keep a place for God on tlieir ? campus, in tlieir classrooms, in tlieir residence halls, in tlieir i inner life. He may still figure in tlieir motto or on dieir I Coat of Arms, but no one is shocked at this because it is • expressed in Latin, Greek, or Hebrew which few imderstand. 
; Be this as it may, we make no apology for the large and central place for God at Notre Dame and in tlie lives of 
• Notre Dame men. Nor for His Mother either, since Her name graces diis place and all of its sons. Someliow this more than earthly presence gives this place a special peace, a vital spirit, a rendezvous with a destiny of a high order. 
When all of this is said, there is still much unsaid and even unsayable. One might brag a little and say tliat here there are more full-time students and faculty in residence than at any Catholic university on earth; that here tile plant and endowment are larger than any other Catholic uni­versity in histor)'j that our alumni contribute more and in higher proportion to keep us growing; that we have the oldest law sdiool and art gallery, the only Mediaeval Institute, one of tile very few schools of engineering and architecture, tiie most outstanding Catholic college of science. But even after such a display of immodesty, there is still much unsaid. 
I haven't even mentioned that our football record is the best in the land over the years that the game has been played. Why say it? Ever)'faody knows it. But some will say that this is glorj' of years gone by since the fencing and swimming teams are the true champions today. Well, I still have hopes, and I suspect that Notre Dame still has some good football games left in her system, yet to be 
8 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 
played. The last crowd has not yet been thrilled. The 
spirit still is phenomenal here. Blood still races in the fall 
of the year, but let us see everything here in proper propor­
tion — missing no reality, slighting no contributions. Foot­
ball has contributed to Notre Dame, and may yet well con­
tribute more. But we are more than football. We are a 
university, committed to the pursuit of excellence in all 
its human forms. Let us neglect no one of them: the 
spiritual, the intellectual, the moral, the cultural, the physi­
cal. This is not just a list; it is a hierarchy. 
What will Notre Dame be like in the years to come? Still a very exciting place I hope — even more exciting than today. I believe the extra excitement will come from^ a new and broad commitment to the problems of man in contemporary society. These problems are many; they are thorny. And they are world-wide. ^Ve cannot profess to be a first-class Catholic university, in the best tradition of that title, without becoming deeply engaged in making our contribution in finding solutions to man's greatest problems, here and all across the world. 
T
HE UNn'ERsrrv' has always been the critical mass in society. Today one may not simply criticize: the problems are too enormous. The modem university must begin to commit its resources to solutions. I can visualize the Notre Dame of tomorrow operating in South America and in Africa. I can see Notre Dame leading the way at home and on the world scene, too — in the ecumenical movement, in ciwl rights, in the philosophy of science, in bridging the gaps between diverse world cultures, in atoms-for-peace — indeed, in any way that the present-day needs of mankind demand and in whatever areas where we might sen'e as men committed to Christian wisdom. i 
Let me say one last thing that may or may not be ap­preciated. Personally, I desire one quality' for Notre Dame: dedicated excellence in all the broad educational endeavor that goes on here — intellectually, spiritually, physically. I would rather see Notre Dame die than be educationally mediocre. Neither Our Lord nor His Blessed Mother are ser\'ed by mediocre education or its product, mediocre men. I want Notre Dame men to be competitive wth the best in this land and throughout the world: in mind, heart, and soul — and in their spirit of \Tsion and dedication. A spirit less than this, I not only do not ^vant here, I \vill not abide. We \n\\ be the best, or please God, we will cease ^ to exist here. 
As you pass on from my words and peruse the Dome, I am sure you \vill sense the excitement, the promise, and in a youthful, exuberant sense, the fulfillment that is Notre Dame Although we have come far from the log cabin in which all of this began 119 years ago, we may still quote the lines of Robert Frost that Dr. Tom Dooley had en­graved on the St. Christopher medal which he always wore around his neck: 
The moods are lovely, dark and deep, ^ But I have promises to keep. 
And miles to go before I sleep. 

The Singing Irish 
by Thomas DeLay 
T
HE NOTRE DAME Glee Club will be approaching a forty-seventh , birthday as it tours this year. Or­ganized in 1915 by Ward Perrot, a law student, to sing for informal song-fests, it was confined for many years to ap­pearances on the campus \\'here it en­tertained at various school functions. Before his ordination die late Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., a former President of Notre Dame, was a mem­ber of this original group. In die en­suing years the Club gained in stature and acclaim under the direction of Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta. In 1928 \%'itli die influential help of Father O'Donnell die Irbh choraliers organ­ized and undertook dieir first major tour—a trip to the West Coast. 
Professor Daniel H. Pedtke assumed die duties ol Glee Club director and coordinator in 1938. Before coming to Notre Dame he had enjoyed a distin­guished career in vocal and instru­mental music. A pupil of such out­standing musicians as Alexander Raab and Sergei Tamowsky, Mr. Pedtke studied at the Bush and American Con­servatories of Music, besides earning degrees at the Universities of DePaul md Chicago. Today he is a fine per­former and conductor, as well as an jutstanding composer, arranger and :eacher. He is referred to as "The Dean" by all Glee Clubbers. 
Between 1948 and 1955 die Glee Dlub was featured every Easter on Ed Sullivan's "Toast of the TOUTI." In 1950, before an audience of 20,000 in he Chicago Stadium, the Glee Club lang a benefit with movie stars Pat 3'Brien and Ann Blyth. 
The Club entertained its largest 
audience, 85,000 people, at the Phila­
delphia Music Festival in 1953, when 
they appeared with Jeannette Mac­
Donald, Jose Ferrer, Eddie Fisher, and 
with Arthur Fiedler direcdng the Robin 
Hood Dell Orchestra in Philadelphia's 
Municipal Stadium. 
In recent years the Club has been heard on several C.B.S., N.B.C. and Mutual radio programs; in addition they have recorded an album of reli­gious songs for M.G.M. 
Last year the Club had one of its most successful years. Truly living up to advance publicity, the Club toured the East Coast during the Thanksgiv­ing holidays; Virginia and Ohio dur­ing the semester break in January'; and made an extensive tour of the West Coast during the Easter vacation, ap­pearing in Phoenix, Las Vegas, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Disneyland, San Diego and Long Beach. 
Today the Notre Dame Glee Club is composed of 90 students, 40 of whom travel after being chosen on the basis of voice, knowledge of music, and general character. 
Unique among major college glee clubs, die Notre Dame Glee Club is entirely student-managed. The officers this year are: President John 'W. Crowe, a histor)' major from Eden, New York; Vice-President Fredric W. Weber, a general program major from Rochester, Minn.; Secretary Thomas 
W. Fabish, a history major from Gar­den City, New York; Treasurer P. Nicholas Harkins, a finance major from Jackson, Miss.; WiUiam C. Wein­sheimer. Business Manager, from Chi­
cago, 111.; and Publicity Manager 
- Thomas H. DeLay, a finance major from Norfolk, Nebr. 
The officers, guided by Prof. Daniel 
Peddse, arrange the details of every 
appearance, be it a football "pep 
rally," an intermission program in the 
Student Center, a one night stand in 
Chicago, or a two-week tour of Neiv 
England. Though most sponsors are 
Notre Dame Alumni Clubs and Coun­
cils of die Knights of Columbus, the 
group sings for many benefits and 
charities on which the sponsors are 
usually substantially rewarded for their 
efforts. An example of this was the 
concert in Long Beach, Calif., where 
this year the sponsor cleared nine thou­
sand dollars. 
Although the Club will sing for any 
group which will defray their expenses, 
the business manager must refuse many 
requests throughout the year because 
of conflicting dates, inconvenient dis­
tances, or other practical considera­
tions. His requests to book the Club 
in a town that would fit perfecdy into 
a tentative tour are too often declined. 
So all in all, many fortunate "breaks" 
are necessary to set up a successful trip. 
This year, 1961-1962, die Club is again prepared and looking forward to another successful year. The Club plans to tour the South, East and Mid­west during the semester and Easter vacations, and is looking into the pos­sibilities of a European tour for next summer. But wherever the Notre Dame Glee Club travels, you can be sure that the ideals and spirit of this great University, yours and ours, travels with us, as reflected by the character of the young men in the Club, and our reper­toire of songs — the traditional open­ing of a concert with Ave Maria, and closing \vith the Victory March. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 . 9 
PILGRIM CHUCK SMTEENEY, '38, with a Roman classmate, seminarian Jack Anton. 
CHUCK AND MRS. SWTEENEY pause outside St. Peter's during tour of Vatican. 
SWEENEY, WITH BERET and monogram jacket, becomes a dashing boule\-ardier. 
WEARING NECKLACE (badge of office) is R. M. Dockrell, then mayor of Dublin. 
SECOND EUROPEAN PILGRIMAGE IN ROME 
By Vince McAloon, '34 • 

As last year, tlie local Irish in Rome were on deck to welcome the pilgrims at the airport, gusty rain notwith­standing. 
The pilgrims got off to a genuine Notre Dame start by spending the first day in visits to Notre Dame Inter­national School and to the General Curia and Seminary of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross, where they were greeted by Father General Christopher 
J. O'Toole, C.S.C., and members of* the General Curia. This visit was cli­maxed with Solemn Benediction by Father Edward L. Heston, C.S.C., Pro­curator-Postulator General, and chap­lain of the Rome Club. As usual the Holy Cross seminary choir lifted all present to celestial heights by their rendition of "Notre Dame, Our Mother." 
Daily sightseeing was handled by Brother John Joseph, C.F.X., (N.D. '38-39) as guide (First Class!), as-^ sisted by Gordon Di Renzo, '56, and Alfonso Tufano, Subway-Catacomb member of TWA. 
"Rome By Night" each evening brought the jolly pilgrims to famed restaurants and spots: The Hosteria Del'OrsOj Alfredo, La Biblioteca, Ulpia, and lastly but not least-ly, N.D.'s "Dinty Moore's" of Rome, tlie Scoglio Di Frisio, where we accomplished for this year (in spirit) Universal Notre Dame Night. 8 
Added to the Audience of the Holy Father, Father Jerome Wilson, C.S.C, University vice-president for business affairs, offered Mass at the Altar of St. Pius X in St. Peter's Basilica. 
^Ve of the Rome Club found die pilgrims a very genial and willing group, full of the spirit of penance and fun! 
UBIQUITOUS SWEENEYS (Chuck is l%I-62 president of the national Monognm Club) appear in sun glasses to viewer's right of pilgrimage banner. 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 
0 ripiHE LOG CHAPEL had never looked 
J_ quite so tropical. Vanda orchids were bright splashes of color along the pewSj and large, waxy red anthericums graced tlie twin kneelers at the edge of the sanctuary. In a box on the altar lay two carnation leis flown in from Ha­waii, a white garland for the husband and a red one for the wife. Into this floral splendor an exotic military note was introduced by an honor guard of Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus, 
^ dress-suited, with swords, capes and feathered chapeaux. 
If the setting was unusual, tlie occa­sion was more so—tlie Golden Wedding Anniversary of Albert and Audetta Lochner, Cleveland, O., solemnized with a ceremony composed by and Mass celebrated by their son, Rev. Rob­ert J. Lochner, C.S.C., '37, assistant professor of tlieolog)' and assistant pre­fect of religion at Notre Dame. 
The site had been requested by Mrs. Lochner for its historical connotations: 
Q the replica chapel marks the birthplace of the University, chosen 119 years ago by Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C.; it is die burial place of Rev. Theodore Badin, first priest ordained in the United States: and Mrs. Lochner's son, or­dained 15 years ago, had said his 5,000th Mass there more than a year before. 
The ceremony was unique. Not a prescribed or mandator)' rite, the Golden Jubilee liturg)', like the rite for 
P solemn engagement, is merely suggested for whole or partial use. In this case it was used in part, expanded upon, partly rewritten, with items added in keeping with the freedom to use or not use the traditional form. It began with a pro­logue describing the Sacrament of Mat­rimony, its place in the world today, and its need for a life of grace. There followed a blessing of flowers to be given the jubilarians, a white lei sym­bolizing purity and fidelity, a red one 
^ for sacrifice, with an analogy drawn to the wedding ring blessed and bestowed fifty years before. This was followed by a renewal of wedding vows—actually not a renewal but a rededication in the spirit of vows taken fifty years ago, re­affirming the couple's pledge of fidelity on their wedding day. A blessing of the jubilarians by their priest-son was fol­lowed by Mass and presentation of a papal blessing. 
Even the acolytes added an interna­tional touch. One server was a Notre ^Dame student hailing — appropriately enough for the occasion — from Happy Valley, Hong Kong, while the other 


Pomp with Circumstances 
PRIEST COMPOSES CEREMONIES FOR PARENTS' GOLDEN WEDDING 
was a nephew of the jubilarians, an friends throughout the U.S. and over­officer in the U.S. Army just returned seas. Gifts were presented, and the final from Korea and Japan. item was a six-week flying trip to the 
After Mass die guests went to the Caribbean, the itinerary of which -was Grotto to gain the plenary indulgence read to the couple as a final surprise. attached to a group visit. From the The tour included extended stays in shrine all repaired to the Morris Inn New Orleans, Jamaica; St. Thomas for brunch in a floral setting which and St. Croix, Virgin Islands; San carried out tlie Hawaiian motif. Juan, Puerto Rico; and return to New 
After the brunch several tributes and York by non-stop jet: a honeymoon letters were read to the jubilarians from worthv of an unusual Golden Weddinar. 
EXCHANGING LEIS as tokens GOLDEN JUBILEE of the 
of fidelity and sacrifice, Mr. Lochner Cleveland couple is marked by a special has to kneel for conferral by ceremony including Messing Iqr his diminutive bride of 30 years. their son. Rev. Robert Lochner, CS-C 
JUBILEE CEREMONY, rewritten in part hy Father Lochner for his paicats and made particularly colorful by floral decorations and Knights of Columbus honor guard, was climaxed by Mass and presentation of Fipal Blessing. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 11 
VAN WALLACE as he appeared on pilgrimage to lourdes. 
Our Man in Mount Clemens WALLACE. '27. AND MOTHER CAPABLY ' REPRESENT LOURDES CONFRATERNITY 
Last spring Detroiter David Van Wallace, '27, long known simply as "Van," celebrated not only the anni­versar}' of his birth but also tliat of the undergraduate accident which has left him paralj-zed for two-tliirds of his life to date. 
In suburban Mount Clemens, Mich.', Van and his motlier, Mrs. Rosalie Wallace^ have long functioned most fruitfully as Detroit area representatives of tlie campus-based Confraternity of tlie Immaculate Conception of Our Lady of Lourdes. Centered at Notre Dame's Lourdes Grotto (where visiting groups can; obtain a plenary indulgence witli prayers" for papal intentions), the. highly indulgenced but "imosible" or­ganization works only through prayer and the dispensing of healing water from Lourdes in Erance..i. Affiliated with the archconfraterfiity at tlie famous French shrine, the Confrater­nity is directed by Rev. Philip H. Schaerf, C.S.C. Its apostolate of prayer aind pain is directed no more intensely toward the miracle of healing than toward tlie perhaps greater miracle of resignation to God's will through the intercession of Our Lady and St. Bemadette. 
This miracle of resignation is no­where more strikingly exemplified than ; in Van Wallace and his mother. Last March 20 Rosalie Wallace wrote in part to Father Schaerf: "Van is fifty-five years old. today, thirty-seven of those years spent flat on his back but 

still going strong. I am 83 years old 
on Saturday, March 18, and too going 
strong. So don't you think we have 
plenty to be thankful for? We are 
thankful." 
Van's "going strong" is proved by 

his presence in tlie end zone at Irish 
football games in a specially con­
structed station wagon, the gift of De­
troit alumni. 
But the best illustration of the ^Val-v 

laces' gift of ebuUient joy is tlie follow­ing story told to Father Schaerf by Rev. Harr>' Stegman, C.S.C. About 20 years ago Mrs. Wallace came into Van's hos­pital room with a birthday cake ablaze with candles. When the nurses and sisters saw the cake tliey presumed it ivas Van's birthday and began to sing, "Happy birtliday to you—" But Mrs. Wallace said, "Oh, no. This isn't his birthday. It's the anniversary of the day he broke his neck. We always cele­
brate on this date for all the graces C 
we have received from Our Lady since 
that day." 
72 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 
sounded clearer. There she was in her 



MAN and the MOMENT 
By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, "41 
\ 
THE WONDERFUL and chubby G. K. Chesterton was much impressed with the Notre Dame campus. It is beauti­ful. It is the City of the Blessed Sacra­ment, a prairie-land that grew into halls of learning. Above tlie miles of walks and acres of grass and forests of trees a spire and dome rest against the changing skies. It was good of Father Sorin to name Our Lady as queen of the campus. It was good of him and 

*' wise of him and a sign of his great faith. In effect, he named her "Home­coming Queen" for every day of the year. We are truly blessed and for­tunate to have her watching over our campus. 
The seasons of time more than a cen­tury' have touched this lovely campus . . . over a centur)' of sun and ice, of soft rain and falling leaves. Each pass­

, ing year saw eager faces, reflecting 
W young minds come in quest of learning. AVith the passing days and the hurried hours the young minds moved from un­certainty to rich wisdom, and then away, quickly, to make their mark in what they hoped was a ^^'aiting and anxious world. 
Our Obligation 
The Lady on the Dome has a special place in her heart for her constantly 
m. etherging youth who come to learn at Notre Dame. She never forgets. Some­how she expects more from each one who spent any time at the many halls of learning that cover her campus. We should never forget this obligation. Wherever we are' and no matter what our status in life she wants us to be leaders in our field. We had the privi­l^ e to be here. Now we have the obli­gation to prove our worth to the world. 
This is not meant to be a lecture. 

^ Each of us knows his strong points and each of us knows his weaknesses. Now and then it is good to pause in our running and to capture again something of the spirit that inspired us and urged us when we left to win the world and to hold it in our hand. 
The First Look 
To recall that past just close your eyes and see yourself back at Notre Dame. Remember the first time you saw the Golden Dome! It was not just gold shining in the sun. It was the be­ginning of a great adventure. It was z call to learning and leadership. And you saw her looking down and bidding you a silent welcome — a hundred thousand welcomes as you joined her loyal sons. And you were eager to begin. You had waited a lifetime for this one day. Be­cause you had waited and now, because that day was here, you wanted to get on with the business of the day, with registration, \\'ith hall assignments, with getting books and with the many things that are part of that first day. 
That was some time back, your first gaze at the Lady of the Dome, the Lady who would never let you go. Then the days quickly moved along like a river's rapid flow. And you were caught in the swirl and the sudden seasons. Through it all she watched and waited. She, too, saw the seasons come and go. The early morning sun touched her robe before the grass and trees could feel the light. That first autumn as the leaves turned was multicolored magic in a carnival of color. The burning leaves brought loneliness and the keen-scented sadness of a lost summer. Then the shadows and the memories with­drew into nothingness and it %vas game time and class time and all of it a gay time. 
Then the campus grew chill and wliite and the earth seemed to stand still, bewildered. But a frozen world is not a dead world. The buildings seemed to draw closer and the church" bells cloak of gold against a grey and heavy sky. She watched. Across the walks up­turned collars on bent heads steered crunching feet to rooms where steam was pounding in the pipes. The long days, the dull days, the heavy hours of winter. 
Then spring came. Bird calls and the yearning buds, the pulse of a fresh green year. You found it hard to wait, even harder to work. The lake called and the soft-wooded shores kept you from your room. "A full year almost gone," you thought And you tried to hurry it along. That was the way with all of us. We were anxious to get away from this time and place to the many ways of the world and the countless cities of men. She watched us from her place against the sky. We got used to the Dome and the Lady on top. Litde did we know that she would net'er let us go. ^Ve left—-and in our hearts she put a song. Within each of us is the melody of this time and place. She is Notre Dame, Our Mother — tender, strong and true. 
TO OUR LADY 
We have colored your cloak with gold .And cro^vned you with every star. And the silvery ship of the moon We have moored where your white 
feet are. -As you look on this world of ours — Campus, and lakes, and towers. 
You are good to us, O Great Queen, Good as pur mothers are, .And you know us by name, each one— 
.Ah! Heavenly Registrar, Enter our names in the book Into which your dear Son will look! 
For we know that a time will come. The graduating year. When thousands and thousands of us 
Who dreamed on your beauty here Will gather before your face And dream and talk of this place. 
Then when your Son comes by. You will tell Him, as of old, "These are the boys we know, 
I, in my cloak of gold. You at the breaking of Bread — These are the troops You fed." 
.And a shout shall split the skies .As the ranks send up His Name, .A golden hour in heaven 
When your sons, O Notre Dame, Kneel to their Leader down. There by the hem of your gown. 
— Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '06 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, I96I 
NEW FAMILY THEATER building in Holljnvood will ser\c as headquarters for Father Patrick Peyton's radio and tele^-ision productions, as processing, storage and shipping center for films and equipment sent throughout the world. 
was heard weekly on 550 stations of thc ^ Mutual Network. The program has received countless a\vards for its excellence over the years. 
In 1949 Father Pat \vas anxious to enter the powerful new medium — television — to further promote Our Lady's work. In De­cember of that year he produced his first, one hour, motion picture for television use. More than 90% of the stations in the United States beamed that show on Christ­mas Day. Further television programs fol­lowed. Since that first program. Family Theater films have been shown more than 4,000 times throughout America. 
INTERSPERSING his hectic radio and tele-M vision schedule with Family Rosary Cru-
THERE'S A PHILIPPINE-IRISH INFLUENCE IN 
THE FAMILY THEATER'S FURNITURE 
ENTRY HALL FURNITURE was provided by the N.D. Club of Manila, along with all other wood furniture . . . 
INCLUDING KNEELERS in the walnut-panellcd orator}', where Family Theater staffers pray thrice daily. 
14 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 

TH E STORY OF Father Patrick Peyton, C.S.G., '37, is known from Zanzibar to Zamboanga. One facet of the stor>' that many don't know, however, is that Father Pat's stor>' actually started on the campus at Notre Dame, beneath the Golden Dome. 
Fifteen years ago. Holy Cross Father Pa­trick J. Peyton came to Hollywood. The story of Father Pat's days at the Community Infirmary on the Notre Dame campus is kno^vn to many. Seriously afflicted with tuberculosis the year before his ordination, he pleaded with Our Blessed Mother that he might live to be ordained to the Priest­hood. He did, and he dedicated his life, his strength, and his heart, to show his appre­ciation to Our Blessed Mother. 
Father Peyton decided that his best man­ner of repayment would be to encourage and restore the recitation of the Family Rosary in every home in the world. After a multi­tude of disappointments, he eventually ob­tained the best medium aN-ailablc at that time to transmit his message to the public 
— radio. 
HI S FIRST radio program was broadcast throughout .'America from New York on Mother's Day in 1945. This immensely suc­cessful program finally served as the key to open the door of Hollywood to his plans. 
The Mutual Broadcasting System agreed to give him a half hour each week to spread devotion to our Blessed Mother. Certain qualifications, however, had to be met: 1) It had to be a "top flight" radio produc­tion: 2) It must feature at least one Holly­wood star each week: 3) It must "sell" fam­ily prayer to all the homes of .America: 4) Production costs must be met by the newly founded Family Rosary Crusade. 
It is now history how Father Pat over­came the countless obstacles that encoun­tered him in his unswer\'ing determination to keep his pledge to Our Lady. He met them and defeated them. 
By 1949, his Family Theater program 
1961 

sades, Father Pat has since travelled to ^ every continent in the world. He has taken his Crusades into .•\frica, India, .•\ustraHa, Europe, the Philippines, South .-Vmerica and most of the states in our country. This world-wide Rosary Crusade gained impetus. On each crusade, materials which were created and produced in his Hollywood offices have accompanied Father Pat. He has shown Family Theater motion pictures in the jungles, in the deserts, and in the mountains of the world. Transcriptions of his radio programs have been played over the smallest and largest stations in the world — all for one purpose — to further de-j votion to our Blessed Mother by the recita-~ tion of the Family Rosary. 
When Father Pat first came to Holly­wood, the good Sisters of Immaculate Heart College loaned him an office. Later, a gen­erous benefactress, Mrs. Jacoba Buchenau, donated a building on Sunset Boule\'ard for 
REV. PHILIP A. HIGGINS, radio production director, occupies a beautiful walnut office suite donated by Philippine alumni . . 
^hi s work. For thirteen years Family Theater operated in this sixty-five-year-old structure which had been a residence at one time. 
In 1958 the tos Angeles City Inspectors examined the building and indicated an ur­gent need for many costly changes, so that the aged building would conform to the building code. .\t this time. Father Pat felt that the old building had ser\'ed its purpose well. More room \vas needed. The expensive restorative work demanded would not satisfy the needs of the times. 
A.v ouTSTA.VDiXG Los Augclcs architec­

tural firm, Gene Verge and R. N. Clath­
-V worthy & .'Associates, offered to design a new 
" building for Father Pat at no cost. A Los Angeles contractor, the Fred E. Potts Co., offered to erect the building on a non-profit basis. Father Pat started a fund raising cam­paign, then appealed to the Raskob Founda­tion for Catholic Activities. The Foundation responded with an extraordinarily generous grant. The old structure was torn down in March, 1960. Shortly thereafter, construc­tion started on the new building. During Christmas Week of the same year, the Fam­ily Theater staff moved into its resplendent new headquarters. 
During a visit to the Philippines in 1959, 

^ Fatlier Pat met Mr. Jose Puyat, Jr., of the Conzalo Pu>'at & Sons furniture manufac­turing company. Father Pat made known to Mr, Puj-at his urgent need for furniture for his new building. Mr. Pu>*at generously of­fered to make the furniture on a non-profit basis. Father Pat then contacted the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Manila. In an equally generous manner, they offered to under­write the cost of the furniture as their con­tribution to Our Lady's cause. More than seventy pieces of beautiful walnut furniture were made in Manila and shipped to Holly­wood where they now enhance the new 
^ Family Theater building — a great tribute ' to the Notre Dame Alumni in Manila. 
From the same location on Sunset Boule­\-ard. Father Pat can now continue with greater efficiency to promote his work for Our Lady. . . . All of which is embodied in his now famous slogan—"THE F.AMILY THAT PRAYS TOGETHER — STAYS TOGETHER." 
.A S DOES REV. ALBERT 
• J. HEINZER, C.S.C., director of Family Theater, here shown mth Philippine Bishop Manuel del Rosario . 
iMONTANA PUBLIC SERVANTS among Notre Dame alumni include (l.-r.) Thomas Hanrahan, Judge Victor Fall, Thomas Judge, and Donald Garrity, representing executive, judicial and legislative branches of government. 
Irish in the Saddle of Government in Montana 
The Legislative, Judicial and Exec­utive branches of Montana government are represented by ^s'^otre Dame grad­uates. The four ND men are Judge Victor Fall, '27; Thomas L. Judge, '57; Thomas J. Hanrahan, '52; and Donald Garrit>', '60. They are present­ly ser\'ing in their respective offices in the capital city of Helena. 
Victor Fall is judge of the 1st Judi­cial District, Thomas Judge is a rep­resentative in the State Legislature, Thomas Hanrahan is county attorney and Donald Garrity is an assistant at­torney general. 
AND FOUNDER FATHER PEYTON, shown with Mr. and Mrs. Robert Raskob, whose family foundation gave funds for the new building. 
Judge Fall received an LL.B. from Notre Dame and an M.A. from Mon­tana State University in 1935. He practiced law in Helena until he was first elected in 1953. H e is presently ser\'ing his third term. 
Thomas L. Judge received an A.B. from Notre Dame. He worked in in­dustrial sales and public relations un­til 1958, spent two years in newspaper advertising and graduate work at the University of Louisville. He came back to Montana in 1960, started an ad­vertising and public relations firm, filed for State Representative at the same time and was elected last November. 
Thomas J. Hanrahan capped his 
A.B. degree from Notre Dame at the 
N.D. Law School with an LL.B in 1954. From 1954 until 1957 he \vas an F.B.I, agent stationed in Chicago and New York. He returned to Mon­tana as an assistant attorney general until his election to the office of county attorney in November. He is married to the former Kay Flj-nn of Helena, a 1957 graduate of St. Mary's. 
Donald Garrity was graduated from Carroll College in Helena in 1957. He received his LL.B. from Notre Dame in 1960. Upon his graduation he re­turned to his hometown of Helena and was appointed assistant attorney general. 
Noire Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 15 

The University Today 
Priests Celebrate Jubilees 
Ten Holy Cross priests of the Class of 1932 celebrated the 25th anniversary- of their ordination in June. AVith the excep­tion of Rev. .•Alfred Send, C.S.C., who is in Chile, they offered Masses of Thanksgiv­ing at the University of Notre Dame and attended a dinner at the Indiana Club. 
The jubilarians include Rev. Charles Mc-Carragher, C.S.C., provincial steward; Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C, Rev. Joseph McGrath, C.S.C, and Rev. Michael Ga\-in, C.S.C, of the Notre Dame faculty and administra­tion: Rev. Joseph Payne, C.S.C, pastor of Little Flower Church; Rev. George Bax­ter. C.S.C, assistant pastor of St. Patrick's Church; Rev. Walter Mclnemey, C.S.C, Our Lady of Fatima Retreat House; Rev. Paul Frybei^er, C.S.C, University of Port­land; and Rev. James D'.^utremont, C.S.C, of Notre Dame High School for Boys, Niles, 111. 

Sc\-eral of the jubilarians also had 25th anniversary obscr\*ances in their home par­ishes. Three priests, now deceased, who also were ordained on June 24, 1936, are the late Re\'. Michael Jcdnakowski, C.S.C, Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C, and the Rev. James Young, C.S.C. 

Sister Madeleva Retires 
Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C, distinguished president of Saint Mary's College for the past 27 years, announced her retirement from the administration of the college, ef­fective in iVugust, 1961. 

Internationally known as an educator, poet, and lecturer. Sister Madeleva has made Saint Mar>''s College one of the foremost women's colleges in .\merica. Tripling enrollment, teaching staff, and buildings, she gave new stimulus to the liberal and fine arts as well as to science and mathematics. 
REUNION PLANS of the Class of 1936 arc discussed by the retiring officers (seated), Detroiters Jim Sherry and Bob Irvin, and the local chairmen, Morrie Cooper and treasurer-elect Jerry Vogel. (See story on next page.) 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 

Philosopher Mourned 
Sympathy was extended by Father Hes-burgh to Mrs. Paule Simon, widow of the world-renowned Thomist scholar. Prof. Yves Simon, who died in May after nearly t^venty years on the Notre Dame faculty. Mrs. Simon wrote in reply: "The long and heartfelt message that you sent in your name and in the name of the University answered most touchingly the devotion that my husband had for Notre Dame as a place of Christian learning and a source of un­failing friendships. The children and I are confronted by a sympathy so widely and generously manifested and are grateful for the offering of so many prayers. We dearly wish to extend our thanks to all the priests, faculty and alumni who joined with you in expressing condolence." 
ROCHESTER—Universal Notre 
Danic Night principals included (l.-r.) 
Bill Dcmpscy, chairman and 
Rochester Club president-elect; Father Thomas O'Donnell, CS.C, 
from the campus; and 
Don Booth, outgoing president. 
(Sec UND Night reports 
beginning on page 33.) 

To Head Inter-Alumni Group 
James E. Armstrong, '25, executive sec­retary of the Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion, was named president-elect of the American Alumni Council at its national convention in July, .'\rmstrong, who has been Notre Dame's alumni secretary and a member of the \KC for thirty-five years, will succeed Waldo Johnston of Yale Uni­versity, as president of the organization next year. 
The American Alumni Council numbers more than one thousand educational insti­tutions, seventeen organizations and ap­proximately 2,200 indiWduals among its membership. The Council is concerned with the development of alumni organization in colleges, universities and secondary schools. Its programs and services also deal with alumni publications and with the fund­raising programs which have become iden­tified with most alumni organizations. 
1961 

SPECTROPHOTOMETER acquired 
by the chemistry department for 
the University's radiation 
project, supported by U.S. Atomic 
Energy Commission, is checked 
by (l.-r.) Dr. Augustine J. Kandathil, 
•60; Rev. Thomas J. Lane, CS.C , '29; and Robert J. Hooper, '59. 

LOBUNO Chief Named 
The appointment of Dr. Morris Pollard as director of the Lobund Laboratories at ^ the University of Notre Dame was an-" nounced August 1 by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, University president. 
In addition to heading Notre Dame's famed germfree animal research center. Dr. Pollard will also scr\'e as professor of biology and associate head of the department of biology. Father Hesburgh said. Francis X. Bradley, Notre Dame's research administra­tor, has been acting administrative director of the Lobund Laboratories, founded as a student and directed for many years by Dr. James Reyniers, who resigned to found a similar laboratory in Florida. Robert Ir\-in . and Philip Trexler were others among Dr. ^ Reyniers' early alumni associates. 
Dr. Pollard, whose teaching and research have been in virology, epidemiology and pathology, comes to Notre Dame from the University of Texas Medical Branch at Gal­veston. He has been director of its Virus Laboratory since 1946 and has held the rank of professor of preventive medicine there since 1950. He is editor of Perspec­tives in Virology. 
A native of Hartford, Conn,, Dr. Pollard holds the degree of Doctor of Veterinary Medicine from Ohio State University. He has been awarded a Master of Science de­gree by Virginia Polytechnic Institute and J the degree of Doctor of Philosophy by the University of California. He was an Army lieutenant colonel during World War II. 
He has sen'ed as a consultant to the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Wel­fare and the Brooke Army Medical Center. His professional affiliations include the So­ciety of Bacteriology, the Society of Experi­mental Biology, the Society of Experimental Pathology and the Academy of Microbiol­ogy of which he is a Fellow. 
Notre Dame's Lobund Laboratories pi­oneered in the development of the germ-free animal as a unique tool in medical and biological research. Investigations currently ^ underway deal with a variety of subjects in-^ eluding cancer, heart disease, nutrition, ag­ing, dental caries, and germfree surgery. 


A 'Cool' Reunion 
CHARACTERIZING the 1961 Class Reunions in a word, one would al­most have • to use the expressive adjective "cool." 
Not in the familiar sense of "chilly" or "aloof," as in tempera­ture or temperament — both were pleasantly warm — but in the G-I. sense of "cautious and casual," the bebop sense of "crazy," the child­hood sense of "just plain keen." 
How else would one describe a week end that was so short on scien­tific planning, so long on visible enjo)'ment? 
Even the planned phases were in­troduced so "coolly" that they were hardly noticed. Like the radical de­parture of preregistration and prepay­ment, attempted by the Alumni Office to ease the rigors of a registration that often seemed like entering boot camp or basic training and to alleviate the uncertainty of the "numbers game" in­volved in planning accommodations for buildings, banquets, etc. This ex­periment was not an unqualified suc­cess, but few experiments are. 
Another casually planned element was the injection into the program of small doses of culture and continuing education, as in last year's Alumni Forums. The injection was so unob­trusive that it was hardly noticed, but again it was an experiment. Placed in the reunion mid-point of late Saturday morning and early afternoon, the ses­sions were general, timely, provocative, and attended by small, earnest segments of an alumni body generally present for relaxation. The topics (the polit­ical maturity of American Catholics, treated by Prof. Frank Keegan, assist­ant dean of Arts and Letters; the meaning of liberal education, treated 
m "WHADDYA MEAN I'M NOT LISTED?" 
Routine raillery at general 
registration in the Law 
School (above), good-
natured griping while 
checking into halls 
(right), and kindred high 

jinks have become estab­
lished reunion traditions. 
IRISH CLANS GATHER IN JUNE WITH MAXIMUM FUN AND MINIMUM FUSS 
(PHOTOS MOSTLY BV BRUCE HARLAN, '49) 

Kegistmtion Day 
"OUT OF THESE HOT, WET CLOTHES; INTO A COOL, DRY DREWRYS!" First stop is generally one of the oases dispensing suds (left) in courts and quads throughout West Campus — or tramping the Burke Course fainvays (below) in the world's wackiest alumni golf 
tournament. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 17 
by Prof. Willis Nutting of the General  Professor-Coach  ^Valter  Langford)  mentoes and memorabilia of the Silver  ^  
Program;  racial  tensions,  discussed  by  were  a  sampling  for  a  planned  sum­ Jubilee),  the  class  and  general  pro- 
Prof. ^VilIialn D'Antonio  of Sociolog)-:  mer  comse  of studies for aliunni.  gi-ams  were  infoitnal  and  effortless  
and  the Hoosier  Peace  Corps  missions  Except perhaps  for the Class of '36  and  "played  very  cool,"  as  shown  on  
to  Chile,  discussed  bv  its  director,  (whose committee busily prepared  me­ the following  pages.  

LIVELY ELEVEN—The Golden Jubilee Class of 1911, gathered for the 50ih by Sccrctarj- Fred Steers, was the halest and happiest group of senii­centcnarians seen in recent years. 
A 'CooV Reunion 



Zk Class Programs 
€ 
SWEET SIXTEEN—Spurred by Grovcr Miller's and Louis Keifer's Irish post cards, the Class of 1916 assembled most old publications staffers for the 43th anniversary. 
TWINKLING TWENT\"-ONE—Judge Dan Duffy's anthologies of Brandy's correspondence brought together a representative group for the Traditional Dinner and Ray Schubmehl's refreshments perfected 1921*5 Fortieth. 

18 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 
SPORTIVE •nVENTY-SIX—In the absence of industrious Secretary Rudy Goepfrich, the 35-year Class of 1926 was finally called to order by President John Ryan, got down to business of electing Rudy to John's job and Frank Dcitic as new class scribe, gathered in satisfaction next morning (below) and returned to important merrinient. 
THRIFTi' THIRTY-ONE—Made canny by a depression-era apprenticeship, 30-ycar veterans of the Class of 1931 stored up audio-visual memories with electronic-age equipment, showed movies and played tapes of previous get-togethers at dinner in the Morris Inn's Donor's Room, directed by genial Jim Doyle. Seated below is Jim McQuaid. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 19 
A 'CooY Reunion Zk 


 Class Programs 

PERFECT THIRTY-SIX—The Silver Jubilee Class of 1936. led by rcliring Detroiters Sherry and Irvin. busy South Benders Voj;eI and Cooper, perfectly combined ceremony and relaxation. 
'36 SNAPSHOTS show Lyons 
ali*-c by nicht and day. with 
President-elect Bert Baur and 
Secretary-elect Joe \VaIdron (in loudest jackets) ubiquitous mascot Steve Novak, famous iiucsis. 

EXCLUSIVE FORTY-ONE—Dining in unphotographed secrecy in O'Shaujjhncssy Lounge, the 20-year gourmets of 1941. organized by Spellman, Tinny & company, got their comeuppance through midnight raids on the sumptuous smorgasbord in Morrissey. 
20 Kotre Dame Alumnus, August-September^ 1961 
SMALL-BUT-LOYAL FORTY-SIX—Tiniest contingent was the plucky 15-ycar Class of 1946. above denionstratinsr the niijht before (left, in thv Morris Inn's Golfer's Lounjjc) and niorninir after, with heavy circles under once-bright eyes. 
NIFTY FIFTY-ONE—Largest squad on campus was rit-Ided by the decennial class of 1951, represented Saturday morning by the non-golfers shown above. 
FRIDAY NIGHT FESTIVITIES among the Alphas and Omegas of the iVorlh Dining Hail (above), returned incumbent officers. Closcup shows Dallas' dauntless Marty O'Connor (left) and Baltimore's Bullet Bob Williams, discussing the good old Monogram days. 
A'ofrf Dame Alumnus. August-September, 1961 21 
A 'Cool' Reunion Zk 

 Class Programs 
CASUAL FIFTi'-SIX—With only the < 

most ofThand of invitations, the live-year 
Class of 1936 made a very impressive 
showing and (with the exception of \vy 
Leaguer Dick Clark) a bcardlessly 

beatnik appearance in Dillon Hall and 
cnWrons — an impression enhanced (left) 
by their spaghetti a la Rosie's, auto-top 
dining, and truly prodigious 
beverage consumption. 
c 

Zhe Miiti^i ISaMquet 

FATHER HESBURGH ELECTRIFIES with a vision of Notre Dame's greatness as mirrored in great alumni, quoting the testimony of Dr. Thomas Dooley's last letter before a sea of suddenly serious faces. For a hint of this vision, see "What Notre Dame Really Is" on pp. 7-8. 
22 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 
^ NOT UNEXPECTEDLY, in view of the challenge flung to Notre Danic's sweeping Program for the Future by the Ford Foundation's Special Program in Education, the Notre Danic Foundation and this fall's campaign were introduced in general appeal chainnan Joseph O'Neill (left; see page 1), Foundation director Rev. John Wilson (see page 5), and Alunmi Association President ^t'altcr Fleming (see letters on back cover). 
•-=>>^ 



Z/fe A^^tial Al^^^i M(^ss 
THE GROTTO, with sunlight filtering 
through the trees as through windows 
of a great outdoor cathedral, is the scene 
of Sunday's Mass for all Notre Dame 
men, offered by Rev. Patrick H. Maloncy, 

C.S.C. (foreground); served by his father, rcunionist Charles Patrick Maloney, '16; and included a brief scmion by Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C., '41 (inset), alumni field director 
'* (sec "Man and Moment"). 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 23 
A GLOBAL COMMENCEMENT 
Speakers for 116th Exercises Tell Graduates J^ Of Pioneer Peace Corps Project in Chile and I Christian Responsibilities to Emerging Africa I 
C
EREMONIES in June for the University's 116th Commence­ment had a distinctly international flavor, keynoted by the announcement of Notre Dame's role of leadership in the U.S. Peace Corps and by the ap­pearance of distinguished prelates from Europe and Africa. 
Commencement speaker R. Sargent Shriver, Jr., director of the Peace Corps, announced that young men 
-and women would be recruited and trained by Notre Dame and 33 other Hoosier colleges and universities for a Peace Corps project in Chile. 
Shriver said the project results from j "the first agreement of its kind ever 
\

reached between an agency of the 
U. S. government, a group of Ameri­
ALOYSIUS CARDINAL MUENCH of the Roman Curia was celebrant of the Baccalaureate Mass held on the University's Mall on the morning of commencement. can universities and a foreign coun-
HONORARY DEGREE RECIPIENTS with Father Hesbu^ (L-r.): Dr. Stratton, Dr. Scaborg, Dean Griswold, Cardinal Muench, Mr. Martino, Fr. Hesburgh, Dr. O'Connor, Cardinal Rugambwa, Mr. Gardner, Mr. Shriver, Mr. Sweeney, and Dr. Webb. 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 
R. SARGENT SHRIVER, director of the Peace Corps, said in his commencement address: "We as Christians must fulfill our obligations to our fellow men, or God may well permit others to crush us. Either we do these jobs or the Communists will." 
try." He identified the educational institutions as the 33 private and pub­

c* lic colleges belonging to the Indiana Conference on Higher Education "with Notre Dame taking the lead and ser\'­ing as the principal agent in this new arrangement." Shriver, who is a member of Notre Dame's College of Commerce Advisory Council, spoke after receiving an hon­orary Doctor of Laws degree. He was cited "for all his valued accomplish­ments of the past and especially for 
"» his present dedication to the hope of America and the world." Their Eminences Laurian Cardinal Rugambwa, Bishop of Bukoba in Tanganyika, and Aloisius Cardinal Muench, of the Roman Curia, Vati­can City, also received honorary' doc­torates from Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, Notre Dame's president. The African cardinal, who earlier preached the baccalaureate sermon, was honored "as the first of his race to become a member of the 
^ Sacred College" and as a "representa­tive of a continent and of a people struggling to achieve justice and free­dom." Cardinal Muench, celebrant of the Baccalaureate Mass, was saluted particularly for his "diplomatic wis­dom" in serving as liaison between the Church in West Germany and the American military government in the post-World War II years. 
Father Hesburgh also conferred honorary degrees on Dr. Glenn T. ^ Ceaborg, chairman of the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission; Dr. James E. Webb, head of the National Aeronau­
tics and Space Administration; Dr. 

J. A. Stratton, president of Massa­chusetts Institute of Technology; Dean Er^vi^ N. Griswold of the Harvard Law School; John W. Gardner, pres­ident of the Carnegie Corporation of New York; Joseph A. Martino, jjresi­dent of the National Lead Co., New York, N. Y.; James J. Sweeney, direc­tor of the Houston (Te.x.) Museum of Fine Arts; and Dr. Arthur J. O'Con­nor, Scarborough, N. Y., physician. Approximately 1,300 students received graduate and undergraduate degrees at the exercises which were held on the University mall before an assembly of 8,000. 
Cardinal Rugambwa, in the bacca­laureate sermon, expressed Africa's gratitude to all those. Catholics and 
LAURIAN CARDINAL RUGAMBWA, 
Bishop of Bukoba, Tanganyika, Africa, in his baccalaureate sermon, expressed Africa's gratitude to Americans 
"who e-xtend a helping hand." 
non-Catholics alike, "who extend a helping hand" to Africans studying in this country. 
"If we have reason to be grateful to those who simply show Christian kindness to Africans away from their own country, how much more reason have we to thank all those who in any way assist Africans who are in Amer­ica or Europe for study to acquire those truly sound principles which will be so necessary to them when they re­turn home in finding wise solutions to the many problems confronting the young African states now emerging," the cardinal said. 
Shriver said that under the Peace Corps agreement "young men and women from the heartland of America will be recruited, trained and sent abroad to work in that part of Chile where the need and the opportunity are greatest." He said that no one in this country is as poverty-stricken and hopeless or as lacking in educational opportunity or medical assistance as millions in Chile, India, Pakistan and other lands. "We as Christians must fulfill our obligations to our fellow men, or God may well permit others to crush us," he said. "Either we do these jobs or the Communists will." 
Training Begun 
Fifty young men and women, virtual­ly all recent college graduates, re­ported to the University on July 20 to begin eight weeks' intensive training for the Peace Corps project in Chile. About half the young people were recruited from Hoosier campuses by the Indiana Conference of Higher Education and the others emanate from the Peace Corps' national vol­unteer pool. 
The Peace Corps volunteers will spend two years in Chile, working with its Institute of Rural Education in fur­thering education and raising living standards of the rural population. The two-month training program at Notre Dame is geared to develop them into , an effective American team south-of-'• the-border. The Chilean project re-; suited from the first agreement of its I kind between a U. S. government agen­cy, a foreign country and a group of j American colleges and universities. 
Nine recent Notre Dame graduates and three alumni of nearby St. Mary's ! College are among those who entered the training program. Other Hoosier institutions represented include Indiana 
PROF. JOHN T. FREDERICK, noted author-critic head of the F.nglMi department, is congratulated by Father Hesbu^h for winning the alumni-sponsored Lay Faculty Award. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 25 
TABLES TURNED ON FATHER HESBURGH 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, president of the University of Notre Dame, who has conferred numerous honorary de­grees during his nine years as a university president, had the tables turned twice this June. He was awarded honorary Doctor of Laws degrees by Columbia University, June 6th, and Princeton University, June 13th. The citations accompanying these degrees follow: 
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 

"Brilliant son of the Empire State, you have given unstintingly of your vision and energy, not merely to the church of which you are a cherished exem­plar, but to all men, all races, and all creeds. Under your resolute hand, the University of Notre Dame ad\-ances steadily to^vard its goal of high schol­arship, productive research and wise teaching. Mediocrity and social in­justice have long been your chosen adversaries; enlightened understanding, ' your goal; and your armor, a deter­mination to lift man's spirit to nobler things. For a career rich in achieve­ment, rich in ser\'ice to your country and richer still in promise, this uni­versity confers upon you the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa." 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

"President of the University of Notre Dame, immensely energetic educa­tional statesman, he serixs Our Lord, our country, our youth, and his faith . with firmness of purpose, warmth of ' heart, and penetrating intelligence. He finds new hope and strength in the knowledge that men and women of all faiths stand united against those who deny God. With Cardinal New­man he shares the conviction that the purpose of leadership, in Church or nation or university, is to conduct mankind from shadows and \'ain imag­inings into the light of truth." 
Institutions which have a\varded Father Hesburgh honorary degrees in prenous years, include. Dartmouth College, the Uni-g versity of Rhode Island, Villanoi'a Uni­versity, Bradley University, LeMoyne Col­lege, St. Benedict's College and the Cath­olic University of Santiago, Chile. 
Other honors which have come recently to Notre Dame's president: elected presi­dent of the Association of American Col­leges, January, 1961; appointed a trustee of the Rockefeller Foundation, April, 1961. 
Additional major responsibilities: member 
U.S. Commission on Civil Rights; mem­ber National Science Board; permanent C Vatican City representative to Interna­tional Atomic Energy Agency. 
PARENTS, GUESTS, and approximately 1,300 graduates gathered for impressive ceremonies on the sunlit Mall against a hackdrop of trees and towered over by the Golden Dome. 
University, Purdue Universit)', Valpa­raiso University, Depauw Universit)', Wabash Collie, Hanover Collie, Goshen College and Indiana Central College. 
Walter M. Langford, veteran pro­fessor of modem languages at Notre Dame, is coordinator of die Chilean Peace Corps Project, and George E. Smith, associate professor of modem languages at Purdue University', is as­sistant coordinator. They said the sum­mer training program was designed to develop in the volunteers a basic con­versational ability in Spanish as well as a basic knowledge of Chile, its history and culture. 
The curriculum ^»'as also designed, they said, to sharpen the trainees' un­derstanding of American life and insti­tutions and their abilitj' to interpret them to other peoples. Physical train­ing and medical instruction was also provided to prepare the volunteers for the physically demanding work they will encounter in rural Chile. 
Assisting Langford and Smith as staff members of the Peace Corps train­ing program are Professors James 
A. Castaneda of Hanover College; Homero Castillo, Northwestern Uni­versit)'; Richard H. Caldemeyer, Ball State Teachers College; Donald Bray, Los Angeles (Calif.) State College: Ricardo Bena\'ides, visiting Fulbright scholar from Chile; and Dr. William 
C. Bogan, Notre Dame physician. More than ten guest lecturers, tenta­tively including the Chilean ambassa­dor to the United States, were to par­ticipate in the training program. 
The Peace Corps volunteers have spent approximately 60 hours a week in class and study during their train­ing at Notre Dame. They and many members of the staff remain together in student residence halls. They dine together in the University Dining Hall where table conversation are in Spanish. All trainees have spent at least one hour each day in Notre Dame's modem language laboratories. 
Prior to the formal opening of classes on July 24tii, the trainees were engaged in a variety of preliminary acti\'ities. They registered upon ar­ri\'al Thursday, July 20, at the de­partment of modem languages in the O'Shaughncssy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts. They received medical cvaminations and the first round of in­oculations on Friday and Saturday and imdehvent psychological testing on Saturday. 
Surt'cy Made 
A social highlight was a recep­tion and dinner at The Morris Inn on the campus after the registration addressed by Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame president Fatiier Hesburgh, Peter Fraenkel, as­sistant to the president of Indiana Universit)', and a Peace Corps official made an on-the-spot sur\'ey in Chile which led to the formulation of the project and its sponsorship by the thirty-four colleges and universities of the Indiana Conference of Higher Edu­cation. Dr. Blair Helman, president of Manchester College, is Conference president. 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 
>i ;,•• Witucki and Janowsici, Irish (?) Alumni Both, NOTRE DAME Join Foundation Staff 
In recent months two more alumni have joined the stafT of the Notre Dame Foundation. 

BOOKS John R. Witucki, '57, joined the 
{Just a repeat of principle: The ALUMNUS is not a book review chan­nel, but rather an effort to keep Notre Dame alumni aware of the growing number of books by or about Notre Dame men which are coming from the presses of the country, as a news serv­ice. Reviews and evaluations can usually be secured through regular literary channels. Ed.) 
THE EDGE OF SADNESS 
A novel by Edwin O'Connor, '39. 

-Boston: Little, Brown & Co., 1961. $5.00. 
This third novel by the author of The Last Hurrah has been chosen by the Catholic Book Club as its August selection. It is the story of an Irish-American family, the Carmodys, as told by a friend who happens to be a priest. Father Hugh Kennedy. Critic Francis X. Connolly writes: "Like The Last Hurrah, The Edge of Sadness is a serious comedy. While it has up­roarious scenes . . . and a number of beautifully ridiculous characters . . . the novel as a whole is a serious art­ist's reflection on the human parado.v. How can good people be so willful? ^Vhat compulsion drives members of a family to the habitual cruelty of pre­tending indifference? AVhy is love trammeled in so many delusions? Why are the lovers of God tempted to shame their fellow men? Slowly, with a pa­tience that may e-xhaust the lazy reader, Fr. Kennedy illuminates these questions. He does not solve the im­penetrable myster)' of the Carmodys. Rather, he shows us that their mystery —'- the human mystery of the coexist­ence of self-sacrifice and selfishness — is impenetrable." 
Connolly concludes that "Mr. O'Con­
nor has written his best novel so far. It is a great achievement in social his­tory, character portrayal and spiritual discernment. I cannot think of any­thing more than can be legitimately asked of a single novel." 
THE LINEN BANDS 
A book of poems by Rev. Raymond Roseliep, Ph.D. '54. Westminster, Md.: The Newman Press, 1961. $3.50. 
Father Roseliep is a professor of English at Loras College, Dubuque, Iowa. The Linen Bands is a book of fifty poems dealing with such subjects as his priesthood, his teaching experi­ences, love, family, friendship, spiritual and physical pain, death. 
Joseph Joel Keith wrote in Spiritual Life: "^Vhat moves me most, aside from the immaculate competence of this vigorous work, is the rare love of the poet-teacher for students placed in his charge, the love of language and the fresh vocabulary blending with the love of human beings. ... " 
Thomas P. McDonnell wrote in America: "His affinity and love for the profession of teaching is quickly ap­parent in many of his poems, so much so that it may be taken as one of his chief tliemes. . . . Few poets today are so closely oriented to the Christian center in life and in art, but you can­not say that he is a poet of easy pieties." 
Notre Dame's Prof. John Logan, in a preface which appeared originally in the magazine Mutiny, says: "Indeed, this artist gives the impression that he can write well and competently in any form and idiom he chooses. His wide craftsmanship is fit friend to Father Roseliep's long field of subjects and his good human sky of values. He is a poet to savor and one for whose future we will keep vigil." 
staff in March of this year as an as­
sistant  director.  A  -;- ­ —  - 
South  Bend  native,  -——~^  
he is the son of Ber­ ri^^^  'i  
nard  Witucki,  for­ 
mer  head  football  
coach  for  South  
Bend's  Washington  
High School and the  
University  of  Wyo­ 
ming  and  assistant  
coach at Notre Dame  J"""  ^'*"'^  

under Terry Brennan, '49, now a busi­nessman in Ohio. A graduate of Tulsa's Cascia Hall, John entered Notre Dame in 1953 for two years with the Class of '57 but received his A.B. from Vil­lanova (Pa.); where he spent some time at the Augustinian Seminary. He has traveled with various members of the staff and most recendy has been assigned to the Foundation office in Chicago. He is unmarried. 
John H. Janowski, '51, was ap­pointed editor of NOTRE DAME, a 
magazine published 
quarterly by the Uni­
versity, effective July 
1. Also a South Bender, Jack has worked in public re­lations, advertising, and promotion for Studebaker - Packard 
_ , ^ .. Corp. and Associates 
John Janowski , ^ ^ /-. Investment Co. m South Bend and The Heath Co., Ben­ton Harbor, Mich. He has been an oflScer and director of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, the Catholic Forum of South Bend, and the South Bend Press Club, Inc. Jack majored in Journalism at Notre Dame and was on the staff of the Scholastic and Dome. With his wife, the former Rosemary Schwab of Harlan, Iowa, he lives in South Bend with two sons and daughters. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 
Varsity Football Information 
1961 Schedule 
SEPTEMBER 30 Oklahoma at Noti-e Dame, 
2:30 p.m. C.D.T. 
OCTOBER 7 Purdue at West Lafayette, 
1:30 p.m. C.D.T. 
OCTOBER 14 Southern California at Notre Dame, 
1:30 p.m. C.D.T. 
OCTOBER 21 Michigan State at East Lansing, 
1:30 p.m. E.S.T. 
OCTOBER 28 Northwestern at Notre Dame, 
1:30 p.m. C.D.T. 
NOVEMBER 4 Navy at Notre Dame, 
1:00 p.m. C.S.T. 
NOVEMBER 11 Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh, 
1:30 p.m. E.S.T. 
NOVEMBER 18 Syracuse at Notre Dame, 
1:00 p.m. C.S.T. 
NOVEMBER 25 Iowa at Iowa City, 
1:30 p.m. C.S.T. 
DECEMBER 2 Duke at Durham, N. C, 
2:00 p.m. E.S.T. 
Coaching Staff 
Joseph L. Kuharich  Head Coach  
Louis (Bill) Daddio  1st Ass't. and  
End  Coach  
Bichai'd  Stanfel  Line  Coach  

Louis Stephens Ass't. Line Coach Donald Doll Backfield Coach Brad Lynn Ass't. Backfield Coach Hugh Devoi-e Freshman Coach John Murphy_Ass't. Freshman Coach 
1960 Attendance 
Season's attendance (home and CTfzy) 
—540,240. Home attendance—^277,496. High single game—63,000, Navy vs. 
Notre Dame, Municipal Stadium, Philadelphia, Pa. High single home game — 59,235, Purdue. 
Monogram Men Lost (16) 

Tom Monahan End Bob Koreck _Tackle Bob Pieti-zak Tackle Paul Nissi Guard Captain Myi-on Pottios Guard John Linehan Center Jack Castin Quarterback George Haffner Quai-terback Dan Luecke Quarterback Bill Clark Halfback Bill Mack Halfback Ray Ratkowski Halfback Bob Scarpitto Halfback Fi-ank Gargiulo Fullback Dan Grifiith Fullback Bill Henneghan Fullback 
1960 Monogram Men Returning (25) 

Brian Boulac End Max Bumell End Dennis Murphy End Jim Sherlock End Les Traver End Bob Bill Tackle Joe Carollo Tackle Roger Wilke Tackle Geoi-ge Williams Tackle Co-Captain Nick Buoniconti Guard Nick DePola Guard Co-Captain Norb Roy Guard *Ed Burke Center Tom Hecomovich Center Ed Hoerster Center Dai-yle Lamonica Quarterback Clay Schulz Quarterback Angelo Dabiero _ Halfback Tom Liggio Halfback Fi-ank Minik Halfback Ed Rutko\yski Halfback Geoi-ge Sefcik Halfback Bill Ahei-n Fullback Mike Lind Fullback Joe Perkowski Fullback 
*played tackle last season 
1960 Results 

SEPTEMBER 24 Notre Dame 21 California 
OCTOBER 1 Notre Dame 19 Purdue 
51 

OCTOBER 8 Notre Dame 7 North Carolina 12 
OCTOBER 15 Notre Dame 0 Michigan State 21 
OCTOBER 22 Notre Dame 6 Northwestern 7 
OCTOBER 29 Notre Dame 7 Navy 14 
NOVEMBER 5 Notre Dame 13 Pittsburgh 20 
NOVEMBER 12 Notre Dame 21 Miami U. (Fla.) 28 
N0\-EMBER 19 

Notre Dame 0 Iowa 28 
No\'EMBER 26 Notre Dame 17 Southern Cal 0 Won 2, Lost 8, Tied 0 
Notre Dame Attendance Records 
Lai-gest single game attendance — 120,000, Southei-n Cal. vs. Notre Dame, at Soldiers Field, Chicago, on Nov. 26, 1927. 
LaiTgest single game at home—60,564, Ai-my vs. N.D., Oct. 11, 1958. 
Largest season's attendance (home and away)—620,749, in ten games, 1957. (Note: The nine-game recoi'd is 571,527 set in 1947.) 
Largest home attendance for a single season — 293,449 for five games, in 1956. (Note: The foui'-game record is 232,378 established in the 1955 season. 
28 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 
As OF AUGUST 10, 1961 

•VARSITY NUMERICAL ROSTER 
NO.  NAME  PCS.  AGE  HOMETOWN  HIGHSCBOOL  
'Rutkou'ski, Ed .  HB  20  6-1  193  Kingston, Pa. —- Kingston  
3 4 5 6 7 9 II 21 22  Budka, Frank . 'Lamonica, Daryle _ Meagher, Thomas _ Szot, Denis Rascher, Norb Zdanowicz, Wayne . ••Schulz, Clay Pfciffcr, Bill O'Hara, Charlie ••Sefcik, George MacDonald, Tom »  QB QB QB QB QB QB QB QB HB HB HB  19 20 18 19 19 18 21 19 20 21 18  6-0 6-2 6-0 M 6-1 6-1 6-1 6-0 64) 3-8 3-11  185 205 163 183 180 180 190 190 190 170 ISO  Pompaao Beach, Fla. . Fresno, Cal. Louisville, Ky. ___ ~ Chicaso, III. Cleveland, Ohio Jersey City, N. J. Schofield, Wise Chicaso, 111. Milmont, Pa. Cleveland, Ohio Downey, Cal.  Pompano Clovis (Clovb} Flaget Mendel Cathedral Latin . St. Peter's Prep . D. C. E\-cre3t ­_ DePaul St. James (Chester) Benedictine Pius X  -So. JSo. -So. _So.  
24  Caito, Leo ______.„  HB  20  6-1  170  Cleveland, Ohio  Cathedral Latin  
23  Secret, Bob  :.  HB  19  6-0  ISO  Clarltsburg, W. Va.  „  Washington Irving .  
28  •Minik, Frank  HB  20  3-7  165  Vandergrift, Pa,  Vandergrift  
31 32  Kantor, Joseph •Lind, Mike  FB FB  IS 21  6-1 6-1  190 200  Cleveland, Ohio Chicaso, in. .  St. Ignatius Calumet .  JSo.  
33 34 36 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 43 47 48 30 31 3233 54 38 60 61 62 64 63 66 67 89 SO 91  Snowden, Jim .> Tocchini, Ron _ Xaab, Dick ••Perkoivski, Joe . •Gray, Gerr^­•Ahern, Bill Maxwell, Joe — Reilly, Marshall . Phillips, Dennis . ••Dabiero, Angelo . Costa, Paul __~_ Peterson, Mike . *Liggio, Tom . Barnard, John ~ Farrell, Joseph „ Fee, Frank Mundee, Bill Nugent, James .­Pierson, Glen — Prusmack, Jon .­Rodgers, Lionel . Dow, John •Burke, Ed .  Viola, Gene . ••Hecomovich. Tom . •Hoerster, Ed Kutzavitch, Bill Burns, Bill . Jajesnica, Boyd — Keneally, Patrick Lesko, Robert Slalkosky, John _ Grau. Frank . ••Roy, Norh (Co^capt.) . Bitsko, Mickey Loula. Jim ••Buoniconti , Nick (Co-capt. ) . Lchmann , Bob Kienast , Phil •DePola , Nick Mikacich, Ji m DiCarlo, Mike — Allen, Wayne Anton. John Divis, Greg . Etten, Nick _™ Finneran, Tom Minnig, Mike Vomero, Ron Wood, Greg Cullen, Jack ••Bill. Bob ••Carollo, Joe __ Olosky, Martin ••Williams, George Kolasinski, Dan •Wilke, Roiter Snyder, Bill Bednar, George Humenik. David Muller, Nick Reardon. Dan —~ Ward. Bob Powers, John ••Traver. Les . Meyer, John •Murphy, Dennis _ Stephens. Warren ••Burncll, Mxx •Boulac, Brian •Sherlock. Jim Ford, Bill Kellv. James VOOTI. Harold Kolski, Steve Goberville, Tom _ Monahan, Joe Murrav. John Sessi, Tom Simon, John  FB FB FB FB FB FB FB HB HB HB HB HB HB HB HB HB HB HB HB HB HB C C C C C C C C C C C G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G T T T T T T T T T T T T T E E E E E E E E E E E E E E E E E  19 19 20 21 21 20 20 21 20 21 19 19 21 19 19 18 20 18 19 19 19 20 19 21 21 19 19 IS IS 19 18 20 20 21 18 21 20 20 19 20 21 19 19 19 21 19 21 IS 19 19 20 21 21 19 21 20 21 20 19 19 18 19 21 20 20 19 20 18 21 20 20 21 19 20 20 18 19 20 19 18  6-4 6-1 6-0 64) 6-2 6-0 3-11 5-11 6-0 3-S 6-4 6-1 5-11 5-10 64) 3-10 64) 3-10 5-11 5-11 3-11 6-2 6-1 6-1 6-3 6-1 6-2 6-1 6-2 6-2 64) 6-4 6-2 3-10 6-1 64) 3-11 641 64) 6-2 6-2 3-10 6-1 6-1 5-10 64) 6-3 6-1 5-10 64) 6-4 6-2 6-2 6-1 6-2 6-2 6-1 6-4 6-3 6-3 6-3 6-4 6-1 6-2 6-2 6-2 6-2 6-3 6-3 6-t 6-0 6-2 6-2 6-2 6-3 6-3 6-2 6-1 6-3 6-3  235 210 190 200 190 193 185 IS3 183 165 230 190 185 183 200 180 173 180 185 191 ISO 200 230 213 220 210 203 200 213 215 213 220 210 210 200 205 210 210 200 210 205 203 202 210 213 210 223 200 220 195 220 228 235 220 223 220 230 220 240 213 200 225 225 203 190 210 200 200 210 193 190 200 190 190 200 200 190 210 223 213  Youngstown, Ohio .. San Francisco, Cal. . Rock Island, III. — Wilkes-Barre, Pa. __ Baltimore, Md. Evanston, 111. Glenside, Pa. Attleboro, Mass. Pittsburgh, Pa. Donora, Pa. Port Chester, N. Y. . Kansas City, Kan. West New York, N. J. Kansas City, Kan. Chicago, 111. Rockville Centre, N. Y. Chic^o, 111. . Redbank, N. J. Orlando, Fla Garden City, N. Y. Vallcjo, Cal. Jersey City, N.J . Chicago, 111. Scranton, Pa. . Bovey, Minn. Chicago, 111. Moon Run, Pa. — Philadelphia, Pa. . Manchester, N. H. New York, N. Y. . Homestead, Pa. — Bethlehem, Pa. — Baltimore, Md. — Baton Rouge, La. . Van Vowhis, Pa. . Rock Island. 111. ­Springfield, Mass. . Louisville, Ky. Oconomowoc, Wise Portage, Pa. Sacramento, Cal. — Clairton, Pa. Wilmington, Dela. __ St. Louis, Mo. St. Louts, Mo. Chicago, 111. Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Caldwell. N.J . Erie, Pa. San Francisco, Cal. . San Francbco, Cal. . Garden City, N. Y. . Wyandotte, Mich. — Flint, Mich. Marshfield, Mass. — Toledo, Ohio Hamilton, Ohio Hinsdale, 111. Shavertown, Pa. Port Vue, Pa. Ducor, Cal. Chicago, 111. _ Binghamton, N. Y. „ Har\-ard, 111. Toledo, Ohio Chicago, 111. South Bend, Ind. — Burlingame, Cal. Evanston, III. Olympia, Wash. Chicago, 111. — Benton Harbor, Mich. , Clairton, Pa. Pittsburgh, Pa. Hialeah, Fla. Chicago, III. Areola. 111. Newark, N.J . _ Wcirton. W. Va St. Louis. Mo.  East Youngstown . St. Ignatius Allcman . Coughlin Calvert HaU Loyola Academy . LaSaUe (Phila.) . Attleboro Mt. Lebanon Donora Port Chester -5o. Ward St. Joseph Bishop Miege . ifendel ­_ Chaminade Lowell Redbank Catholic . Bishop Moore Garden City St. Vincent St. Peter's Prep _ Mendel Central Greenway (G^eratne) St. Rita _-__ : Montour West Catholic Afanchester Central Holy Cross Homestead . Allentown Cent. Catb. Calvert Hall Istrouma Charleroi (Charleroi) Alleman . Cathedral Flaget Oconomowoc . Portage Bishop Armstrong . Clairton Saleianum St. Louis U.H.S. _ St. Mary St. Ignatius . Fordbam Prep Delbarton (Morrtstown) Cathedral Prep St. Ignatius Sacred Heart Garden City Roose\-eIt Holy Redeemer Archbishop Williams Central Catholic Hamilton Catholic — Hinsdale Kingston Catholic (Kingston, Pa.)_So. Glassport So. Porter\"fllc Union So. Valley Forse (Wayne, Pa.)_ Campion (Wise) Alliance (Ohio) Brother Rice John Adams Serra St. George Olympia Mt. Carmel St. John Clairton Mt. Lebanon Archbishop Curlcy Mendel . Areola Seton Hall Madonna St. Lotus U.H.S.  

• Denotes Monograms Won. 
{WON 75, LOST 64, TIED 1) 

COMPLETE 1960-61 SPORTS RECORDS' 

FOOTBALL  ND  9  Iowa  GOLF  Indoors  
Won 2, Lost 8  NDND  7  Minnesota Toledo  Won 10, Lost 3, Tied  ND  64  Marquette  ..... 39  
NDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDND  21 19 7 0 6 7 13 21 0 17  California — Purdue No. Carolina — Mich. State Northwestern ... Navy PittsburghMiami (Fla.) ....IowaSouthern Cal. ._. 7 51 12 21 7 14 20 28 28 0  ND ND ND ND ND NDNDND  8 9 9 Indiana Wisconsin Illinois West. MichiganNorthwestern Southern 111 Ohio State Marquette FENCING  ..  4 3 4 2 9 1 0 0  ND 21 ND 18 *ND 974 *ND 974 •ND 974 ND 13 ND 20 ND I8/2 ND 20/2 ND 13/2 ND 15 NTJ 9  West. ni. „ 15 Iowa 18 Mich. St. „ 962 Northwest. „988 Wisconsin . 979 Bowling Gr. 0 So. ni — 22 Purdue 17/= Indiana 15'/= Hillsdale C 4/= West, Mich 3 Mich. St_ 27  Michigan State Relays: Notre Name, first in sprint medley. Indiana and Purdue at Notre Name: Indiana, 52; Notre Dame, 51/=; Purdue, 25}4.Central Collegiate Conference: Notre Dame, first place with 76}4 points. Western Micliigan Relays:  f  
NDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDND BASKETBALL Won 12, Lost 14 79 Western III _ 56 83 Evansville 68 62 Kentuckj­68 61 Bowling Green _ 50 54 UCIA 85 63 use 93 69 • Indiana 74 58 Purdue 78 69 Illinois 66 56 Northwestern .... 59 72 Butler 56 71 No. Carolina 73 76 St. Francis 34 66 Detroit 62 61 DePaul 58 62 Illinois 77 74 BuUer 69 64 St. John's 63 72 Canisius 79 74 Michigan State .. 89  NDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDND Won 10, Lost 6 16 Fcnn 21 Indiana Tech 16 loiva . 10 Air Force 21 lo^va 18 Indiana 14 Detroit 13 Chicago 17 Case Tech 18 Western Reser\'c 12 Ohio State 13 Mich. State 16 Illinois 10 Wisconsin 14 Buffalo 12 Wayne StateBASEBALL Won 12, Lost 17  1 b 11 17 6 9 13 14 10 9 15 14 11 17 13 15  ND 31 No. Ill 5 ND 31'/= Detroit 4'/= • These decided on Big Ten total stroke rule. SWIMMING Won 7, Lost 5 NT3 51 Miami (Ohio) _ 44 NTJ 63 Cent. Mich _.. 32 ND 53 Northwestern 42 NT5 50 Cincinnati 45 ND 34 Ohio Univ. 61 ND 46 Kent State 49 ND 60 West. Mich. 34 ND 32 Wisconsin 73 ND 60 Washington Un. 35 (of St Louis) ND 51 No. Central 44 ND 46 Bowling Green _ 49 ND 41 Pittsburgh 54  Notre Dame, second in two-mile relay. Bill Yalcy (ND), first in open mile run. Chicago Relays: Notre Dame, fourth in two-mile relay. Milwaukee Journal Relays: Notre Dame, third in two-mile relay.IC4A Meet in New York: Tom Dempsey (ND), fifth in two-mile run, Mike Terry (ND), tied for fourth in pole ^-ault with height of 13 feet 6 inches. Jerry Fitzpatrick (ND), sixth in 60-yard dash. John Mulrooncy (ND), sixth in 60-yard high hurdles. Cleveland Knights of Columbus Relays: Notre Dame, fifth in t\vo-mile relay. John Mul­ _ " A  
N DNDNDNDNDND  71 81 80 60 57 61  DetroitBradleyPortlandSt. LouisDePaulCreighton  82 84 49 74 78 54  NDNDNDND  ; 1 15  Cah'fomia 6 (10 inn.) California 5 Ncx-ada 16 (10 inn.) Fresno State 13  TRACK Won 3, Lost 1 (Dual meets only, including cross country)  rooney (ND), fourth in 50­yard high hurdles. Frank Car\'er (ND), freshman run­ning unattached, fourth in two-mile run.  
WRESTLING  ND ND ND  Fresno StateSanta ClaraSouthern Cal  8 9 4  ND Cross Country 21 Marquette  35  Outdoors  
Won I, Lost 8  ND  U.C.L.A  2  ND  29  Indiana  26  ND  72  Army  68  
NDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDND (dual meets only) 14 Illinois 16 8 Northwestern .... 24 26 Wayne State 8 11 West. Michigan _ 18 14 Chicago Univ. 18 13 Wheaton CoUege 16 10 Cincinnati 19 11 Miami (Ohio) _ 16 13 Marquette 19 TENNIS Won 17, Lost 2 5 Georgetown ._ 4 5 Ohio Wcsleyan ._ 3 4 Duke ._ 5  ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND NT3 ND ND ND ND ND NDNDND 2 4 11 5  Loyola (LA) ... 0 San Diego 0 Arizona 5 Arizona 6 Arizona 12 Purdue 5 Indiana 7 Indiana 3 Bowling Green .. 9 Bowling Green .. 4 West Mich. 7 Northwestern 13 Mich. State 6 Toledo 1 (14 inn.) Wisconsin 2 Ohio Univ. Ohio Univ. —  Notre Dame Invitational Meet: Western Michigan, 15; Notre Dame, 46; Central Michigan, 97; Bowling Green, 104. Triangular Meet at East Lan­sing: Michigan State, 18; Notre Dame, 24; Ohio State, 26. Indiana State Meet: Indiana, 23; Notre Dame, 52; Ball State, 92; Wabash, 100. Central CoUi^iate Conference Meet: Western Michigan, 21; Notre Dame, 44; Marquette, 68; Bowling Green, 96,  NTJ 80 Mich. State _ 51 ND 72/= Pittsburgh .... 58/= Ohio State Relays: Notre Dame, seventh. Drake Relays: Notre Dame, fifth in four-mile relay; third in two-mile relay; fourth in 480-yard shuttle hurdle re­lay; fifth in 440-yard relay. Dick Monjeau (ND), fifth in hop, step and jump. Indiana State Meet at Lafay­ette: Notre Dame, second with .77 1/10 points.  
NDNDND 99 8 3 9  Virginia Poly _ Marshall Coll. Kalamazoo Mich. State Detroit  ._.„_.__.  0 0 I 6 0  NDNDND•ND  11 0 6 4  Valparaiso . Northwestern 1 Michigan 5 (10 inn.) Mich. State 5  IC4A Meet:seventh. NCAA Meet:tenth.  Notre Notre  Dame, Dame,  Central Collegiate Conference Meet at Milwaukee: Kansas, 52}4; Western Michigan, 36; Notre Dame, 33,  
30  Notre  Dame  Alumnus,  August-September,  1961  

' Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ALABAMA 
John A. O'Brien, Jr., '51, 1455 Linda Vista Dr., Regent Forest, Birmingljam, Alabama. 
ARIZONA 
PhoetiU—lEAw3cd W. Murphy, '57, 1741 E. Tuckey Lane, PhocnLx, Arizona. Turjon—Robert O'Calbghan, '45, 723 Camino Mira­montc, Tucson, Arizona. 
ARKANSAS 
fori ^milA—James A. Gllker, »48, 3715 Free Ferry Rd., Fort Smith, Ark. LittU Rod—James E. Madigan, '43, i6\~i Crest-wood, Little Rock, Ark. 
CALIFORNIA 

Centrol-Harold A. Bair, '29 (Secretary), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, Cal. Greater Lone Beach .drea—Edmond W. Shecnin, '31, 206 E. Fourth St., Long Beach 12, Cal. Los Ar,eeles—Sfonon R. Goodman, '30, 9441 Wil­shirc Blvd., Beverly Hills, Cal. iVor(*<rii—William C. McCou-an, '41, McMillan ft Mortgage Co., 421G El Caraino Real, Palo Alto, Cal. Orange Counl>—Willaid R. Vangen, '49, 11732 Blue Jay Lane, Garden Grove, Cal. Sacramento—Thomas G. Kassis, '31, 4601 Nickels Way, Sacramento 25, Cal. San Cieso—Fred Fowler, '41, 4232 Stanton Rd., San Diego, Cal. 
Saa Fernando Valley—John N. Leonard, '34, 8533 
Shiricy Ave., Northridge, Cal. San Gabriel rol/e)—John P. Frampton, '49, 1430 Hacienda PI., Pomona, Cal, 
COLORADO 

Colorado iprinjj—William J. Donclan, Jr., '29, 1800 'ft Mesa Ave., Broadmoor, Colorado Springs, Colo. Denver—Carl F. Eibcrger, '32, 1300 Telephone BIdg., Denver 2, Colo. 
CONNECTICUT 
Connecilcul KoHe)-—James F. Flaherty, Jr., '33, 12 Turablebrook Rd., Rocky Hill, Conn. Fairfield Coun/j'—-William Mulrenan, '37, 100 Tide-mill Terrace, Fairfield, Conn. iVauenluci—Domenic A. Narducci, Jr., '32, 44 Beacon Manor Rd., Xaugatuck, Conn. iWai Haven—Johtx F. Kerrigan, '49, 95 Greenway Street, Hamden, Conn. 
DELAWARE 

•ft James J. Coleman, '46, 219 Oakwood Road, Wil­mington 3, Delaware. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
Robert N. Hutchison, '53, 12 East Leno.x St., Che\-j- Chase, Md. 
FLORIDA 

Cenlr<i/—Roy B. Laughlin, '48, 2061 Rockledgc, Rockledgc, Fla. Fort Lauderdale—Thova^ J, Walker, '42, Walker In­surance Associates, Inc., P.O. Box 595, Dania, Fla. Greater Miami—James A. Smith, '48, 672 N.E. 98th St., Miami Shores, Fla. North Florida—Gcnld B. Johnson, '50. 2644 Red ft Fox Road, Orange Parlc, Fla. Palm Beach County—Edward D. Lewis, '34, Box 921, Palm Beach, Fla. 
Fensacola—Patrick J. Gunning, '53, 3770 Summer Dr., Pensacola, Fla. 
St. Petersburg-Tampa—i,txc\t. E. Mooncy, '26, 4325 
Gaines Rd., Tampa, Fla. 
GEORGIA 
Atlanta—James E. Barnartl, '49, Acting President, 2(H2 Juaniu St., Decatur, Ga. 
HAWAII 
Donald C. Maclmdo, '30, 99-1490 Heen Way, Aiea, Hawaii. 
IDAHO 
James J. Carbcrry, *41, 8507 Vincent St., Boise, Idaho. Idako Falls—James M. Brady, '29, P.O. Box. 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS 
Aurora—Owen Kane, '38, Kane Ford, 230 Galen Blvd., Aurora, III. Central IHinoij—Thomas Hamilton, Jr., '33, 3349 
S. Filth St., Springfield, 111. Chicago—^Joseph L. Pagliari, '33, 1123 X. Knight, Park Ridge, 111. flecolu;—James A. Uhl, '52, 922 N. Church Street, Decatur, 111. Eastern Illinois—Edward J. Laydcn, '41, Hoopeston, III. Fox KaHo—GeoiBc R. Sclmiidt, '29, 620 Summit St., Elgin, III. Joliet—Eugene R. Funk, '39, 713 Second Avenue, 
Joliet, III. Kankakee Valley—Thomas J. Rej-nolds, '34, 34354 
S. Winfield, Kankakee, 111. McHeary Counl)'—George K. Costello, '40, 393 Highland Ave., Cr>-stal Lake, 111. r^orio—Thomas Eddand, '53, 2715 Overhill Rd., Peoria, 111. 
Roct/orrf—Albert Carroll, '22, 206 West State St., Rockford, 111. 
Rock River Valley—Lukc: R. Morin, '33, 523 N. 
DL\on Ave., DLxon, 111. Southern Cook County—^Angelo A. Ciambronc, '57, 168 Hawthorne Lane, Chicago Heights, III. INDIANA Calumet District—Ben R. Danko, '51, 1801 Cleve­land Ave., Whiting, Ind. Eastern Indiana—William B. Cronin, '31, 521 E. Jefferson, Hartford City, Ind. Elkhart—^Austin Gildca, '30, 5 St. Joseph Manor, Elkhart, Ind, Evansville—Donaid F. Haller, '43, 716 S. Villa, Evansvillc 14, Ind. Fort irajne—Robert R. Luther, '49, 443 Kinnard Ave., Ft. Wayne, Ind. /nrfi'ana/io/ti—William S. Sahin, '51, 4218 Ruckle Street, Indianapolis 5, Ind. Michigan City—Dr. Francis J. Kubik, '36, 902 Pine, Michigan Cit>*, Ind. SL Joseph Valley—Sl. Robert Cahill, '34, Athletic Dcpt., Xotrc Dame, Ind. Terre Haute—Cliarles W. Mclzger, '48, 1031 S. Brown, Tcrre Haute, Ind. Wabash Valley—James W. Gbser, '50, P.O. Box 59, Lafayette, Ind. 
IOWA 
Burlington—John A. Dailcy, '27, 201 Spring St., Burlington, Iowa. Cedar Rapids—Gcorse Benning, '49, R.R. 3, Cedar Rapids, loM-a. Des Moines—James F. Bocscn, '54, 4109 30th St., Dcs ^loines 10, lou'a. 
Dubuque—Rc\'. William Kunsch, '37, Our Lady of Seven Dolois Rectory, Fcstina, Iowa. Sioux-Land—Raymond B. i>uggan, '43 (Secretary), 3244 Jack:on, Sioux City 4, Iowa. Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, £ . Mo­linc)—William J. Laffan, '52, 2715 E. Hayes, Davenport, Iowa. 
KANSAS 
Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, '49, 2203 College, Topcka, Kansas. SaKna—Albert J. Schwartz, '37, 130 S. Front St., Salina, Kansas. IKiVAiln—John L. Weigand, '54, 303 N. Dellrosc, Wichita 8, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY 
John E. Mueller, '32, 807 Huntington Rd., Louis­ville 7, Ky. 
LOUISIANA 
New Orleans—^John E. Petitbon, '52, C. A. Sporl Sc Co., Commerce BIdg., New Orleans, La. Northern Louisiana—George J. Despot, *45, 317 Market, Shreveport, La. 
MAINE 
J. Leonard Tobin, '38, 50 Russell St., Lewiston, Me. 
MARYLAND 
Bahiraorf—William L. Gaudreau, '53, 330 N. Cliarles St., Baltimore 1, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS 
Berkshire County—James J. O'Brien, '34, 197 Bardett .Ave., Pittsfield, Mass. Boston—Charles W. Powers, '43, 1(H7 County St., Somerset, Mass. Pioneer Kotfo—Daniel J. O'Connell, '22, U P>-n­chon Rd., Holyoke, Mass. 
I 
MICHIGAN 
Battle Cr«A:—Raymond R. Allen, '40, 409 Orchard Place, Battle Cirek, Mich. Berrien County—He. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, Niles, Mich. Blue Water Cii/nVl—William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, ^fich. Beorioni—Jerome W. Kelly, '53, 8964 Rockland Detroit 39, Mich. fle/ro.V—William C. Roney, Jr., '49, 2 Buhl Bldg., Detroit, Mich. F/in(—Lawrence C. Saxe, '54, 801 Kensington .Ave., Flint 3, Mich. Gogebic RarigV^Eugcne- R. Zinn, *40, Wright ' & Zinn, Michaels Bldg., Ironwof>d, Michigan. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—Francis X . 

Fallon, '33, Ambet^, Law & Fallon, 300 Michigan Trust Bldg., Grand Rapids, Mich. Hiazcathaland—Donald T. Trotticr, '44, 604 Lud­ingtoa St., Escatiaba, Alicli. Jackson—Cyril J. Hartman, '23, 612 Webb St., Jackson, Mich. Kalamazoo—Joseph O'Keefe, *44, O'Keefc Afotor Sales, 433 W. Water St., Kalamazoo, Mich. Laiuing—Clarence J. Hess, '33, Station B, Lansing 13, Mich. J/onroe—Charles J. Golden, '48, 33 E. Front St., Monroe, Mich. Muskegon—G. Leonard Pucci, '47, 3103 Eastland Rd., Muskegon, Mich. Saginaa Vattey—Vtimsssi C Huriey, '25, 1711 ] Gratiot, Saginaw, Mich. Top of Michigan—Edward L. Moloney, *17, 41S East State St., Cheboygan, Mich. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 31 
MINNESOTA 

Duluth^Suptrior—James P. Kcough, '35, (treasurer), 2705 East Fifth St., Duluth, Minn. Turin CilUs—Joseph T. O'Xcill, '53, 2118 Ba\-ard Ave., St. Paul 16, Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI 

William H. Miller, 30, 755 Gillespie PI., Jack­son. Miss. 
MISSOURI 

Kansas City—(Mo. and Kans.)—^John T. Mastman, '56, 1207 Romany Rd., Kansas City, Mo. St. toaij.—Robert F. Chickey, '54, 9810 Madison. Rocic Hill 19, .Mo. 
MONTANA 

Bernard Gtainey '43, 906 llth Avenue, Helena, Mont. 
NEBRASKA 

Omaha and Council Bluffs—Robert L. Bcrrj*, '51, 5806 Spaulding St., Omaha, Xeb. 
NEW JERSEY 

Central—Joseph J. Sepkoski, '50, 1155 Lorraine Ave., Plainfield. N. J. AVic Jtrsiy—K. Bruce Dold, '53, 9 FemcIifT Ter­race, Glen Ridge, K. J. South Jersey—^James B. Carson, '56, 624 Clinton Ave., Haddonfield, N. J. 
NEW MEXICO 

Fiancb P. Hudson. '54. 2728 Palomas Dr., X.E., Albuquerque, N. M. 
NEW YORK 

Buffalo—Harry A. Qtiinn. Jr., '49, 105 McKinley Ave., Kcnmorc 17. N. Y. Capital District—C. F. Regan, Jr., '27, 441 Louden-i-ille Rd., Albany II, X. Y. Cenlro;—Paul E. Hickey, '40, 218 Bronson Rd., Sj-racuse 9, N. Y. Golden Circle—}zmis F. McVay, '42, 49 Parkv»-ay Lane, Bradford, Pa. .Mid-Hudson rn/Zo'—Donald J. Reynolds. '53, 118 South Ave., Po-ghkecpsie, X. Y. Mohawk I'n//o—Kenneth F. Murphy, '54, 32 Emer­son Ave., Utica 3, X. Y. New York City—A\ Lcsmez, '45, 122 Tullamore Rd., Garden City, L.L, .V. Y. Rochester—William .T. Dempsey, '53, 67 Har\'est Dr., Faiiport, N. Y. Scheneclady^Robcn L. ScSaefcr, '48, HOD Wavell Road, Schenectady, X. Y. Syracuse—See *'Cential Xew York" Southern Tier—Edu-in Bonliam, '09, 329 Hamilton St., Painted Post, X. Y. Triple Cities—George J. Haine', '42, 63 Daris, Bingliamton, N. Y. 
NORTH CAROLINA 

Donald Kelsev, '48. 15 Westridge Rd., Greens-bore, .X.C. 
NORTH DAKOTA 

William Daner, '53, 1106 So. Highland Acres, Bismarck, Xorth Dakota. 
OHIO 

Akron—Geoige Dekany, '49, 318 Kenilworth Dr.. Akron 13, Ohio. Ctnton—Edu-ard A. Machuga, '55, 3207 Windsor, Canton, Ohio. Cinrinnu/i—John F. McCormick, '48, 8924 Blossom Dr., Cincinnati 30, Ohio. 
Cleveland—Kobcrx E. Doud. '41, 19413 Scottsdalc Blvd., Sliaker Heights 22, Ohio. Columbus—Ridiard Kaibcrg, '48. 861 S. Cassingham Rd., Col.mbjs 8. Ohio. Daylon—Dr. Lo.is M. Haley. '50, 409 Rubicon Rd., Dayton 9, Ohio. Horaaton—Jerome A. R>^n, '41, 333 Sojth "D " St., Hamilton. Ohio. .l/ons^eW—John 0 . O'Donnell, '24, 191 Lind .\\e., Mansfleld, Ohio. Xorthu.eslcrn—PaJ Doran, "37, 1505 W. Wayne St., Lima. 0!iio. Ohio I-'ii«ej—James J. Hatanzo, '52, 29 Oakland Ave., Wheeling, W. Va. SanJuitT—Richard C. Hohler, '47, 2603 Eastwood Drive. Sand.sky, Ohio. Ti/Sn—Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., Tiffin, Ohto. ro.'i-Jo—Charles M. Schiia, '46, 4510 Eastway, To­l:do 12, Ohio. YoungslolL'n—Tliomas E. Kerrigan, '44, 133 East J.:dson Ave., Youngstown, Ohio. 
OICLAHOMA 

Oklahoma City—Dr. AI R. Dreschcr, '33, 4415 
X. Thompron, Oklahoma City, Okla. 
r-te—John F. -Moliatt, '35, 3754 East 46th Fl., T.iba 35, Okla. 
OREGON 

Charles Slatt, '33, 2835 X.E. 19th Ave., Port­land 12, Oregon. 
PENNSYVANIA 

Central Pennsylvania—Dr. George W. Katter, '41, 
U. S. Bank BIdg., Johnstown, Pa. £r:e—RajTOOnJ W. Legler, '57, 2323 Sassafras St., Erie, Pa. //arri.fciTg—Donald R. Meek, "50, 520 Park Ave., Xew Cumberland, Pa. Lehigh Valley—Ui-jis J. Wynne, '50, 1826 Turner St., Allentown, Pa. Monongahela Valley—Lojis W. Apone, '41, 321 Market St., Broulisvillc, Pa. Philadelphia—^:snon B. Johnson, '48, 310 Fairhill Rd., Wynnewood, Pa. P;/(j6iirgA—Peter F. Flaherty, '51, 5820 Elwood St., Kltsbuigh 32, Pa. ^cronton—Tho.-nas P. Comerford, '42, 415 Clark Ave., Clarks Summit, Pa. . WilkeS'Barre—Ra>-mond J. Sobola, '49, 760 Miners Bank, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. It'a/mmjpor/—Ed\iard F. O'Dea, '57, 1254 Pirk Ave., Williamsport, Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS 
Philip B. Toole, '52, 72 Anau^na Rd., Pa»tucket, R.I. 
SOUTH CAROLINA 

Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore Dr., West-u-ood, Charleston, S.C. 
SOUTH DAKOTA 

Black Hills—Bernard Gini, '10, Custer, South Dakota. 
TENNESSEE 

Chattjnooga—Herbert J. Hailc, Jr.,, '55, W. C. Teas Co., 1212 McCallie Ave., ChattanoDga, Tcnn. .lf<:m/i*«—John M. Re>'nalds, '56, 409 Cecilia Dr., Memphis, Tenn. 
TEXAS 

Dallas—Martin R. O'Connor, '51, 3174 Catamore Lane, Dallas 29, Texas. El Pajo—Edward T. Jennings, "53, 312 01i\Ta Circle, EI Paio, Texas. 
Houston—T, George McHalc, '23, 505 Smart, Houston 6, Texas. ^ Midland-Odessa—H. B>Tnc O'Neill. '45, 703 Bo>-d, Midland, Texas. RIO Grande roW^j—Robert Aziz, '49. 1205 W. Elizabeth, Brownn'ille, Texas. San Anlonia—Mark E. Watson, Jr., '57, 345 B.:rr Rd., San Antonio, Texas. 
UTAH 

Don J. Roney, '58, 2016 SvK-an, Salt Lake City 8, Utah. 
VIRGINIA 

E. Milton Farley, '51, 4S03 Riverside Dr.. Ridunond 25, Va. f 
Tideualer—VlMip L. Russo, '49, 8033 Wedgcwood Drive Xorfolk, Va. 
WASHINGTON 

Spokane—Bernard J. Smyth, '55, East 1911 Tharston, Spokane 34, Wash. H'ej/ern—Joseph G. Lolta, '51, 2156 Xorth 95th St., Seattle, Wasll. 
WEST VIRGINIA 

Rudolph L. Di Trapano, '50, 2308 Kanawha Blvd.. Charleston, West Virginia. Cfnlra.'—John D. Julian, '40, P.O. Bo.x 2063. Clarksbris, W. Va. M 
WISCONSIN 

Fox River Valley—K:d\s]i H. Caston. '42. 530 Grove, Xccnah, Wis. Crceit Bo)-—Wallace P. Chrislman, '44, 2423 Beau­mont St., Green Bay, Wis. LaCrosse—Steve Pavela, '48, 2311 State St., La-Crorse, Wis. .WfrriH—Aigustus H. Stange, '27, 102 S. Prospect, Merrill, Wis. .\tilu.aukee—Eugei\e J. Schumaker, '42, 2018 E. Lake BlulT BM., Milwaukee II, Wis. Northwest Wisconsin—C, T. Downs, '33. 219'/: 
S. Barstow, Eau Claire, Wis. South Cent™;—John W. Roach, '27, 138 Glenway St., Madison, Wis. 
5orr»*MK»m—Edwin E. Raymond, Jr., '49, 2820 2Ist St., Racine, Wis. 
WYOMING 

Patrick H. Meenan, Acting Prcs., '49, Midwest BIdg., P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wyo. 
FOREIGN CLUBS 

Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C.. '24 (key man), Morcau House, 28 Zindabahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. Conor/a—Pail H. LaFiamboisc, '34, 400 ChareU Blvd., Quebec, Canada. Chile—Rev. Francb A. Provcnzano, C.S.C.. '42. St. George's College, Aven. Pedro dc Valdivia 1423, Santiago. Chile. Ecaoi/or—John Moeller, '47, P.O. Box 213. Q.:ito. Ec 'ador. CiKUn—Capt. V. T. Bbz, '51, P.O. Box 2002, Azana, Guam. Mani'a—Conrado Sanchez, Jr., '54, 83 Mayon St., Quezon City, Philippines. Afexico City—^Teltno DeLandcit), '37, Eugenio Sue 220, Mexico City. Panoma—William J. Sheridan, '34, Box 98, Balboa Heights, Canal Zone. Peru—Enriq-Jc Lulli, '45, Cuzco 440, Lima, Peru. P:.-<T(o Rico—Vice-Prcs.: Paul McManus, '34, Calle Earte, Xo. 4, Condado, Santurcc, Puerto Rico. 
R^me—Secretary: Vincent G. McAloon, '34, Palazzo Brancaccio, Laigo Brancaccio, 82, Rome, Italy; Telephone 730002. 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 
• CALENDA R %.Ml!li:iSS^^^ 
Regularly scheduled club meetings that have been reported to the Alumni Office arc as follows: 
BUFFALO—First Tuesday of every month at 8:30 p.m.. Hotel Lenox, 715 Dcla­\vare Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. In addition, a tabic marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo" is reser\-ed for lunch at K. of C , 505 Delaware Ave., Buffa'o, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 

CED.-\R RAPIDS—Communion Breakfast Meeting, fourth Sunday of even months: (^ 8:00 a.m. Mass at alternating parishes; 
9:00 breakfast meeting at Bishops. 
CENTRAL OHIO—First Monday (night) of every mon'h. Junior Rose Room, Vir­ginia Hotel, Columbus, Ohio. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—Second Wed­nesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High St., Perth .Amboy. 
DEC.\TUR — Monthly luncheons, fourth Wednesday of every month at Elks Club, Decatur, 111. 

DENVER—First Wednesday of each month (^ at the Navarre Restaurant. 
DETROIT—First Monday of each month, luncheon, at 12 noon. Ye Oldc Wayne Club, 1033 Wayne St. 
ERIE—First Friday dinner meeting with wives, .Antler's Restaurant, 7:00 p.m., Sept. thru June, Erie, Pa. 
FORT LAUDERDALE—Second Thursday of each month, dinner at 7:30 pm.. Gov­ernor's Club Hotel, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
KANSAS CITY—Call Plaza 3-2160. 

^ MIAMI—Call Jim Smith (FR 7-2341) or 
• Bob Probst (FR 4-0507) for time and location of meetings. 
PHILADELPHIA—Second Tuesday of each month (night) at the Philopatrian Club. 
PITTSBURGH — Weekly luncheon at the Variety Club, Thursday, in the Penn-Shcmton Hotel, 12 noon. 
ROCHESTER — Monthly luncheon, first Monday, at 12:15 p.m.. Home Dairy, 111 East Main, second floor. 

ROME—Open House daily, Palazzo Bran­caccio. Largo Brancaccio 82, ph. 730002. ^ .Ask for Vince McAloon, secretary. 
ST. LOUIS — Monthly luncheon, stag, 12 noon. Key Club in Hotel Jefferson, St. Louis, Mo., second Monday. 
SOUTHWESTERN WISCONSIN — First Friday of every month, noon luncheon get-together at the Racine Elks Club. 

TERRE HAUTE — Third Tuesday of every month, 7:30 p.m. Meeting at the Tcrre Haute House. 
WASHINGTON — Weekly luncheon, each Tuesday, 12 noon. Touchdown Club, I4I4 I Street, N.W., Washington, D. C. 

§ WILKES-B.ARRE—First Tuesday of every montb, luncheon meeting, 12:15 p.m., in the main dining room. Hotel Sterling. 
ALUMNI 

Akron 
Universal Notre Dame Xlglit was celebrated at 

the new Silver Lake Country Club on May 27th. 
TOM BOTZUM, '49, was master of ceremonies. 
Tom is also chairman of the X. D, Foundation for 
the Akron area. The Akron Club's distinguished 
honorary- member from Cleveland, DON MILLER, 
'25, was on hand to introduce his classmate and 
our principal speaker. Alumni Secretary JIM 
ARMSTRONG. JOHN DETTLING, '21, present­
ed the award for Notre Dame Man-of-thc-Year to 
JOE KRAKER, '29. It was a fine evening and 
all the members and their wives and guests en­
joyed JIM ARMSTRONG'S address. FATHER 
HESBURGH'S taped message was of particular 
inspirational \-aluc to all of us. 
On June 6th a general meeting of the club \%'as held to elect new officers, Thev arc as follows: President, GEORGE DEKANY / '49; Vice-Pres,, DAN MOTZ, '54; Treasurer, JIM MURPHY, '53; Secrctao*. BILL LAMMERS, '53. These men wish to thank the outgoing officers for their fine job during the past year. In addition the entire club wishes to congratulate Past-President JOE WEIBLE, '56. on his coming marriage in Sep­tember. 
—JIM WALTER, '50, Retiring Seo*. 

Alabama 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Alabama celebrated 

Universal Notre Dame Night at a dinner meeting 
on Saturday evening, May 20, 1961. at Veslavia 
Country Club in Birmingham. Mr. HARRY J. 
MEHRE of Atlanta, Georgia. Class of 1923, acted 
as master of ceremonies. He did an excellent job. 
His many interesting and amusing stories were 
thoroughly enjoyed by all. 
FATHER BRIAN EGAN, O.S.B., President of St. Bernard's College, Cullman, Alabama, was our principal speaker. He gave us a ver>- Inspiring talk. Father Brian received his master's degree at Notre Dame. 
DR. DON JUDGE of Anniston, .Alabama, made an appeal in behalf of the Notre Dame Founda­tion. 
Inasmuch as the writer has been transferred to Philadelphia, the presideno' of the Notre Dame Club of .Alabama has been turned over to Mr. JOHN A. O'BRIEN, JR., whose home address is: 1465 Linda Vista Drive, Regent Forest. Birming­ham. Alabama. Mr. O'Brien, who graduated In 1931 with a degree In mechanical engineering, is sales manager for Air and Hydraulics Engineering, Inc. here In Birmingham. In my opinion, he will make an excellent president. Tlie enthusiasm cW­denced at our recent meeting should mean a con­tinued growth for the Club in the days ahead. 
—J. L. CAMPBELL, Retiring Pres. 

Baltimore 
On Saturday, June 17, 1961. all of the club members were Invited to participate in an after­noon of golf, swimming and dinner at Sher^voixl Forest on the Severn. 
Tee-off time was scheduled for 2 P.M. at the Shcr^vood Forest South Golf Course. 
The afternoon began at the summer residence of LUCIEN GAUDREAU, one of our honorary club members who kindly consented to our use of his home. By pre-arranged car pool, club members met at the Gaudrcau cottage. No. 335 Thorsby Hill, from which the>' drove to the course. Following golf, members clianged at the cottage and enjoyed a swim before dinner. Dinner was planned around a menu of beer and crabs with presentations made at this time to the outstanding performers on the links that afternoon. 
The entire outing was financed on a pay-as-you­go basis with a $3.00 green fee and each member contributing $3.(X) additional to the purse for the dinner. DUANE CONNOLLY, JI.M MURRAY, and BILL GAUDRE.A U assisted the undersigned with this event. 
—DAVE SOLOMON, Chairman 

Berkshire County 
After the Unlvxrsal Notre Dame Night featuring^ HUGH DEVORE featured in the last issue, the 
N. D. Club of the Berkshircs planned a family picnic for the summer. More on this and other events next Issue. President JIM O'BRIEN and Secretary FRANK LINEHAN have been involved In college nights and other placement activity. 
Boston 
Universal Notre Dame Night was obsen'ed by 
the Club on April 8, 1961, at the Cambridge Boat 
Club. Chairman JOE GARGAN, '52, was given 
much assistance by TIM TOOMEY, '30, in elTect­
ing a very successful evening. Guest speakers in­
cluded REV. JOHN E. WALSH, C.S.C., Founda­
tion Director: HON. EDWARD M. KENNEDY; 
MSGR. CORNELIUS DONAVAN, '09; REV. 
RICHARD H. SULLIVAN, C.S.C., President of 
Stonehill College: and former Mayor of Boston 
JOHN B. HYNES. 
The Club's Notre Dame Man of the Year award 
was given to BILL O'BRIEN, '44. Bill has been 
active in all club activities for many years, a suc­
cessful electronics salcsmanager from Lexington, 
and the University's area chairman for the current 
Foundation drive. Thanks for the help Bill! 
Sincere congratulations are extended BILL 
DACEY, '49, and the officers who assisted him, 
for carrying out their tenure of office in an out­
standing manner, thus instilling new Interest in 
the Club's many activities. His many friends in 
the Club arc looking forward to his continued 
advice. 
Newcomers residing in the Hub. temiwrarily or 
permanently, arc asked to notify the Club Secre­
tarj- of their residence, and their names will be 
added to our mailing list. The Club address is 
Box 887, Boston 3. Mass. 
Plans were prepared for the annual Family Pic­
nic held at Stonehill College in June by Chair­
man CHUCK FO^VERS, '45. 
On May 11, 1961 members of the Notre Dame Club of Boston were very honored to host a re* ception for REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGM, C.S.C., president of the Uni^'crsity. prior to his being honored as the outstanding Catholic of the year, by the Massachusetts Committee, Catholics, Protestants and Jews. The reception was held at the Statler Hilton Hotel, and our thanks to Mr. LOUIS PERINI and Mr. CHARLES PATTER­SON, '44, for their assistance on this occasion. 
Spread the fame of Notre Dame, and tell fellour alumni and friends to follow your own good ex­ample: Contribute real big to our Foundation in order that the University can be assured luffictcnt funds to coiutruct one of the finest Catholic libraries in the world. Without your help it can't be done. 
—JIM MURPHY. '56, Secy. 

BtifFalo 
BOB DOVE, class of '43, showed movies high­lighting the Buffalo Bills 1960 Football Season at our Afay meeting. They were thoroughly enjoyed by all in attendance. A lively questi<m and answer session followed. DENNIS SULLIVAN and CHARLES LAIRD, recent transfers to Buffalo, attended a meeting for the first time. 
Evidence of hard u'ork on the part of Chairman JIM DONOGHUE, '48, and his wife Margaret were the sixty-one ad\'anced reservations for Notre Dame Night at The Buffalo Raceway. A rain storm kept many plungers anay. but the form players aiTi\'ed early, enjoyed a pleasant dinner in the glassed-in Clubhouse, and only had their spirits dampened by their preference in mix. The Buf­falo Club's Scholarship Ftmd was the big winner of the evxning. JAMES .1. DUNNIGAN, SR., 'J», President of the Buffalo Trotting Association, again gave this worthy cause a substantial check. The check vtas presented in his behalf by his son JAMES J. DUNNIGAN, JR., to President HARRY QUINN. 
The Club's annual Stag Outing was' held at Welmer's Grove in Lancaster on Jime lOth. Chair^ 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 33 
man JACK BOLAND. *45, u-as assisted by PAT NEVILLE, '52. FRANK GAGLIONE, '37, ^ras program director. Some of the long ball hitters whom we hav-en't seen at recent Club affairs ^vcrc: MIKE CARY, '59; MIKE REGAN, '56; PAUL HENDRICKS, FRANK FORGIONE, "BUS" PFEIL, JACK CONSIDINE, JOE BUCHEIT, JACK LE VIGXE; JOE RYAN, '39; ANDY MOYNIHAN, JIM MAGEE, DON KENNY, DICK KLEE; RALPH ELSE, '36; JACK ENDERS and the FANNING Brothers, just to name a few. 
FETE and JACK CROTTY, along with new Prcxie HENRY BURNS, JR.. headed a sizeable delegation from the Campus Club. 
Wc knew CLEM CROANT enjoyed himself when he assured one and all that he'd make the Golf Outing in early August. GARY A\*EBSTER, '59, is chairman of this party. 
Alma Balling is the newly elected President of the Alum -wives. 
Plans have not been fully completed for our excursion to the Syracuse Game on the Campus in November. But before then. - . . We'll have seen you at the Golf Outing. 
—}1M CASEY, '44, Sco". 

Calumet District 
A Golf Outing is probably in the works, but there has been no Calumet report since the April 10 Universal Notre Dame Night at Phil Smidt's with campus guest JOHN BRODERICK, assistant dean of the N. D. I,aw School, and Man of the Year JAMES MORRISON, '34. 
Canton 
Campaign activity in Canton has been furious since the April 5 appearance of JOHN S. Mac-CAULEY, assistant director of the N. D. Founda­tion. 
Central Kentucky 
We held an organizational meeting on June 6, 1961, with nine members present. We would like to cljarter an Alumni Club here in Lexington. We have chosen the name, *'The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Central Kentucky," if this name will not conflict with the Louis\iIlc Notre Dame Club. 
MIKE MOYER was appointed acting chairman and I was appointed acting secretar>'-trcasurer. JOHN GAINES is the chairman of religious ac­tivities, the firat of which was a Communion breakfast later in June. GERRY McGINNIS is the chairman of a fall smoker for returning stu­dents and prospective students now in high scliool here in Central Kentucky. Flans are to show a film about Notre Dame at the smoker. 
—EUGENE H. S^\^SHER, Secy.-Treas. 

Central New Jersey 
The event was the June Meeting, "1961 Graduate Welcome Night." The date was June 15, 1961, and the place, the Park Hotel, Plalnfield, N.J. 
Tlie speaker was SaK-atore Bontempo, '32, then NCTV Jersey Commissioner of Conscrx'ation and Economic De\'clopment and now security* chief for the U.S. State Department. 
As has been done in the past the June Meeting was used to formally welcome the newest members of the Alumni into the club. A good turnout showed these fellows that the "Spirit of Notre Dame" is as strong in Central New Jersey as it is on the Campus. 
We urged all students as well as graduates from the area to attend the meeting and join in the fes­tivity. 
We were fortunate indeed to have Mr. Salvatore Bontempo speaker of the occasion. Afr. Bontempo is presently a member of Governor Me>-ner's Cabinet. 
—JACK MALONEY & JOE MRAZ, Co-Chairmen 

Central N.Y. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated by the Notre Dame Club of Central New York on April 4, at Bellevue Country Club, Syracuse, New York. The club was fortunate to have as its guest speaker HUGH DEVORE, freshman coach at Notre Dame, who entertained us all with his many football tales, and gave us a preview of what to ex­pect this fall. 
_A large crowd, including Syracuse University* offi­
•cials
 — Coach Ben Schwartzwalder, assistant coach 

•"Rocky"
 Pirro and Athletic Director Lew Andreas 


— were on hand to see WILLIAM A. (BILL) RISER 
BOSTON—At head tabic for N.D. Night last spring at the Charles River Boat Club were {l.-r.): Charles W, Powers, '45, Club president-elect; Alsgr, Cornelius Donovan, '09, Club chaplain; Hon. John B. Hynes, local chairman for the N.D. Foundation; Rev. John £. Walsh, C.S.C., director of the Foundation; Joseph Gargan, '52, chairman for the dinner; Hon. Edward M. (Ted) Kennedy, guest speaker; William E. Dacey, Jr., '49, retiring Club president; and Rev. Richard H. Sulli^-an, C.S.C., '34, president of Stonchill College. 
receive the Man of tlie Year Av\'ard in recognition 
of his outstanding record of service for the Uni­
versity and the Central New York Club. 
The annual family picnic, sponsored by the wives 
of area graduates was held June Ilth at Lourdes 
Camp on Skancatcles Lake. A large crowd enjoyed 
the afternoon of games and entertainment, ^[any 
thanks to Chairman Helen Burke and her commit­
tee for a vcr>' enjov-able day, 
—TOM STUBLER, Sccj-. 

Chicago 
Tlie new oflicers are planning a full year of ac­tivities for the coming year after taking their bow at Universal Notre Dame Night. More than 300 
N.D. men turned out for the dinner and annual meeting at the Ambassador West Hotel. 
Heading the club for the next vear is JOSEPH PAGLL\RI, '53. Other officers are NORMAN J. BARRY, '43, first vice-president; ARTHUR L. CONRAD, '35, second vice-president; PAUL FULL­-MER, '55, sccrelar)- and PATRICK J. SHANNON, '48, treasurer. 
DR. GEORGE N. SHUSTER, assistant to the president at the universitv- and Laetare Medal win­ner in 1950, was the featured speaker on the U.N.D. Night program. Dr. Shuster has many personal friends in the Chicago area, and lie was well re­ceived bv the crowd. 
JOSEPH J. SULLI\'AN. SR., '02, received spe­cial tribute as co-founder of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago (1908). Mr. Sullivan holds the distinction of being the only man to be elected twice to the presidency of the Chicago Club, the oldest N.D. alumni club. 
JOSEPH L. RIGALI, SR., '26, v.-as honored at the dinner as "Man of the Year." 
Father John S. Banahan, Director of Radio and Television for the Archdiocese of Chicago, received the club's annual Deceno' Av^ard for his outstanding work with Chicago media. 
FATHER JOHN E. WALSH, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation, reported on the status of the ^'Program of the Future" on the national level, while RAYMOND ^V. DURST, local chair­man, brought us up to date on the Chicago situa­tion. 
PAT SHANNON served as general cliairman for Universal Notre Dame Night and did a fine job. ^^embcrs of the Ticket Committee who pitched in at the last minute to help Pat were DAN HARDIN, TERRY BRENNAN and ED FOX. 
President Pagliari saluted immediate past presi­dent GEORGE MENARD at the first board of di­rectors meeting following U.N.D. Night by present­ing the hard-working ex-prcx>- with a Iiandsome en­graved and mounted gavel. George will continue to function on the board as an advisor. 
Ne\^r board members include RICHARD BURKE, '55; JOHN FOGARTY, '49; JAMES MALOOLY, 
'55; JOE MERRION, '20; ED MIESKOWSKI, '46; m 
FRANK MURNANE, '49; and KEN SCHUSTER, • 
'49. 
Retiring directors were JOHN MULDOON, '51; 
JI.M DOYLE, '31; JOE MADIGAN, '54; BILL 
UTHTE '52; FRANK J. O'LAUGHLIN, '38; TOM 
BROGAN, '48; AUSTIN McNICHOLS, JR., '49; 
and HON. ROGER KILEY, '23, honorar>- presi­
dent for the past year. 
FRANK .MURNANE, KEN SCHUSTER and 
CHUCK FALKENBERG teamed up to handle this 
year's big Golf Outing and Sports Night Dinner 
.•\ugu5t 7 at the Elmhurst Country Club. 
Tlie committee made preparations to welcome a 
large contingent from the University, ^[any Chi­
cago celebrities also were on the acceptance list at 
last count. As usual, COL. FRED SNITE hosts the 
club at his beautiful country club. 
Complete information on the outing will be in­cluded in the next issue of Tlie ALUMNUS. ft 
FATHER HESBURGH honored the club vrith his presence for the annual Communion Breakfast on March 5. Tlie Mass was celebrated at Old St. Marv-'s Church and breakfast followed at the Pick-Congress Hotel. As usual Father Hesburgh gave a most inspiring talk. FRANK O'D0\>T> was general cliairman for this event. 
—PAUL FULLMER, '55, Seo*. 

Cincinnati 
Tlie big event in the spring was the annual Uni­versal Notre Dame Night dinner. The affair was held on April 13th at the Cafe Continental at the Netherland Hilton Hotel. Wc were privileged to have FR. HESBURGH as our guest speaker, and his topic on "moral responsibility'" was extremely enlightening as well as inspiring. A large crowd was in attendance and all. met Fr. Hesburgh at the -^ cocktail party preceding the dinner. The "^^an of the Year" a\rard was presented by JOHN FEAD, last year's winner, to BOB McCAFFERT^'. The tremendous success of the affair v\*3s due to the out­standing job done bv the co-chairmen, JOHN FEi\D and BOB McCAFFERTY. 
JOHN LaBAR, Secv*. 

Cleveland 
Seven scliolarships to the University of Notre Dame, based on ability, effort and financial need, were av^'ardcd by the Notre Dame Club of Cleve­land, LEO J. BURBY, president of the local alumni group announced. 
Top honors went to DONALD F. ZELLER, Urn'­versity Heights, who graduated from St. Ignatius High School. Zcllcr stood fifth in a class of 246 and had an average of 96% for his four years of high \M school. ^ ^ 
Donald is one of eight children and foIIov%'s his brother Jack who v%'as also a scholarship student at 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September, 2961 
 University. In addition to his many extra-cur­

•: the 
ricular acti\-ilics, Donald worked summers for a grocerj' firm and served as a newspaper carrier. 
Second honors went to Frank Gaul, one of four children of Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS J. GAUL, University- Heights. Frank graduated in the upper 20% of his class from St. Ignatius high school and scored in the 98 percentile in the National Merit tests. Outstanding in ability, achievement and per­sonality, Frank worked throughout high school at John Carroll Uni\-ersity and a local store to help defray the cost of a college education. His mother is a real estate saleswoman in the ofltces of the Kenny Company. His father, Francis, one of Notre Dame's football greats, has been incapacitated in recent years and at present is confined to Crile Hos­pital. 
Third place was auardcd JAMES P. GOETZ, Shaker Heights. His brother, John, is now a junior at Notre Dame and a younger brother is looking 

/A fonv'ard to following in the footsteps of his two 
^ brothers. Jim graduated from Shaker Heights High School in the upper fifth of his class, 5cr\*ing as business manager of the year book and participating in basketball and tennis. He worked summers for an industrial firm and the Shaker Recreation de­partment. 
Another award went to Richard Dittoc. who graduated in the upper half of his cla.ss at Rocky River High School, the son of Mrs. Rose Dittoe and the late FRANK R. DfrTOE (N.D. class of '31). One of four children, Richard has been earning money for his college education by working as a photographer's assistant and newsboy. Active in athletics, he has ser\*ed as class officer and vice president of the Boy's Council. Richard plans to go into the teaching field. 
Scholarship awards were renewed for the coming year for Robert Gannon, who is performing out­standing work at the University and has rated the 

( 0 Dean's List. James Crcagan. who is now in his junior year, has had his award renewed for the '61­'62 term on the basis of his performance over the first three years, James Haight has had his scholar­ship renewed for his senior year at the University. Traveling with the band, he is also working in the biology lab and plans to enter medical school follow­ing graduation. 
Tlic aim of the Scholarship Committee, under the chairmanship of Clayton G. Leroiix, is to as­sist outstanding students from Greater Cleveland who wish to attend the University of Notre Dame and whose cITorts to work their way through college fall short of the financial requirements. 
Besides Lcroux, Scholarship committee members arc: PAUL B. LIIXIS, KARL MARTERSTECK, THO.M.AS F. BYRNE, JOSEPH BREIG, HON. CHARLES J. McNAMEE and LEO J. BURBY. 

r ^ Scholarship au-ards arc furnished by the Clevc­
" land alumni of the University of Notre Dame out of fund drives and from various activities sponsored by the alumni and students throughout the year. Since the inception of the present program, $20,000 has been accumulated at the University and fifty-two scholarship awards have been made to Greater Cleveland students. Selection is based on high schol­arship, extra-curricular activities and financial need. In ail cases, the students have contributed to the cost of their education by part-time and summer employment. 
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
1. Husband-Wife Retreat—Notre Dame, Indiana— 
August 4-6, 1961. Co-Chairmen: GEORGE KERVER-JOHN CHAPL.\ 
2. Golf Partv—August 17, 1961—Lakewood Country Club. 
Co-Chainnen: BOB BOUHALL-JOE SCHRINER 

^ 3. Business Meeting — Incoming Freshmen Night — 
V September 12, 1961. 
Chairman: DENNIS BUTLER 
4.
 Tea Dance — September (date to be announced). 

5.
 Business Meting — Scholarship Raffle Drawing 


— November (date to be announced). Co-Chairmen: TOM ENRIGHT-JACK DOYLE 
6. Family Communion Breakfast — December II, 1961, St. John's Byzantine Church, Bishop Elko, Celebrant. 
Chairman: VIC GULYASSY 
7.
 Christmas Dance — December 22, 1961 — Hotel 

Carter. Co-Chairmen: GEORGE BLATT-TOM McINTYRE 

8.
 Annual Retreat— March 9-11, 1962. 


Colorado Springs 

No event has been reported since Alumni Secrc­tar>- JIM ARMSTRONG'S Notre Dame Night visit, 0 but Colorado Springs* 25 regular and associate mem­bers and four undergrad affiliates will probably re­port their summertime events in the autumn Issue. 
Columbus 
As reported last issue, the N.D. Club of Columbus had REV. STANLEY PARRY, CS.C, head of the University's department of political science, as a guest for Notre Dame Night in April. 
Connecticut Valley 
Officers installed at the Connecticut Valley U.N.D. Night dinner in April are shown on these pages. 
Dallas 
Since Universal Notre Dame Night, with JOE KUHARICH as a guest, many Dallas Clubbers have been back to campus for reunions, etc., including President MARTY O'CONNOR, '51, and Man of the Year DICK BAKER, *36. 
Dayton 
Following are new officers of the Alumni Club of 
Dayton, Ohio: president, LOUIS M. HALEY, ^LD., 
*50; and secretarv, JOHN P. DEF/VNT, '48. 
—GEO. A. PFL^VUNf, JR., Retiring Pres. 
Dearborn 
TIic new officers of the Notre Dame Club of Dear­bom, Mich., for 1961-62 arc JERRY KELLY, presi­dent; JACK GRIFFIN, vice-president; and L.\RRY DOL/VN, secretarj'-trcasurer. The three new direc­tors until \9&i are JOHN FISH, JERRY WA%'NO, and JERRY SARB. 
Tlie Club Communion Breakfast was held May 21 at the Dearborn Inn following ^fass at St. Berna­dctte's Church. 
The general meeting on June 2 was held at the home of L^VRRY DOLAN with an agenda reviewing events for the coming year. As a special attraction there was a drawing for two tickets to the N.D.-Oklalioma game. 
Following the annual family picnic on June 18 there was a general meeting at JERRY WAYNO's featuring a discussion of plans for the .\nnual Sum­mer Dance on July 22 and also a late summer golf outing. A pair of tickets to the Notre Damc-Southem California game went out as an attendance prize. 
Decatur 
MR. EUGE.NE FOR.\N, the Secretary of the Notre Dame Club of Decatur. Illinois, has requested that I submit the following report in his behalf: 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Decatur, Illinois, ob­served Universal Notre Dame Night on April 11, 1961. Approximately 30 persons attended the cock­tail party and dinner held at tlie Blue Mill Restau­rant in Decatur. 

The Notre Dame Man of the Year .-Vward was presented to ROBERT R. UHL, class of 1950. The presentation of the award was made by GENE FORfVN who outlined the outstanding scr\'iccs whicli Bob Uhl has contributed to his school, hts community and his profeitsion of lavv. 
MSGR. GEORGE L. POWELL addressed the 

group attending the dinner, ccmcemlng the subject 
of "Personal Responsibility." 
The next activity of the Club u-as a golf outing-

held in July at the Country Club of Decatur. BILL 
DO^VNING, class of 1957, was In charge of th t 
arrangements for the outing. 
—J. A. UHI. 

Delaware 
An amusing sidelight of the April Notre Dame Night meeting In Providence, reported in the last issue, is the newspaper account of DEAN FRED­ERICK D. ROSSINI'S address on "The Sclentbt In the Modem World." In the speech the dean as­serted that science and scientists without moral and ethical controls can bring ruin instead of good to mankind. The four-column banner headline In the Morning Nc\vs, "Science Can Bring Ruin," was changed by an Indcpendcnt-mlnded typesetter to a more comforting statement, "Science Can Bring^ Rain." 
Denver 
The pictures and coverage of Denver's gala 

U.N.D. Night failed to show the officers who were installed and the handsome committee that made the rcscn-alions. Those omissions are remedied In this issue. 
Des Moines 
On April 29, I96I, the Noire Dame Club of Dt» Moines celebrated Universal Xotre Dame Night uith a banquet at Hotel Fort Des Moines. The Notre Dame track team with coach ALEX AVILSON, in Des Moines for the Drake Rela>-s, were honored guests. FATHER JOHN WALSH, head of the Xotre Dame Foundation, u'as principal speaker. 
The annual award of ^fan of the Year was given by the dub to JOHN CONNOLLY, JR., prominent Des Moines attomc}' and civic leader. 
Among alumni attending, with their wives were ROBERT E. DREY, '53; WLLIAM FULTZ, '57,­ROBERT LaCASSE, '57; JOSEPH BISIGNANO, '39; J.A.MES McCOMB, '5»: ROBERT KURTZ, THOMAS J. NOLAN; JAMES E. HA.M.MER, '52; HAROLD P. KLEIN; PAUL EIDE, '52; JOSEPH 
E. WHALEN; JOE JOYCE, '54; JOHN DREY, JOSEPH GENESER, JAMES DINNEN, ROBERT BEH, '52: JOSEPH CASEY, CARLETON D. BEH, JR., JOH.V F. S^^"EENEY, '52; and F. MARCEL­LUS WONDERLIN. 
Other alumni attending were WILFRID O. GIL­LAND and D.AXIEL (JAKE) NOONAN, Sioux City, Iowa. 
Other alumni contributing to the evening were JAMES C. SH.AW and FREDERICK G. NEU. —JOSEPH B. JOYCE, Sec^-.-Treaj. 
Detroit 
New officers of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit are: WILLIAM C. RONEY, JR., president; WARREN J. ASHLEY, first vice-president; »VIL­
CHICAGO—Featured guests at the Windy City's U.NJ). Night in the spring included (l.-r.) Rev. John S. Banahan, awarded the Club's annual Decency Award for his work as radio-TV director for the Chicago Archdiocese; Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to the president at the University and principal speaker; Rev. John E. Walsh, CS.C, director of the Notre Dame Foundation; and Raymond W. Durst, local chairman for the Foimdation program. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 35 
LIAM F. ANHUr, second vice-president; LOUIS 
G. BASSO, JR., secretarv-; and JOHN C. MUR­RAY, treasurer. 
JOHN B. HIGGINS and THOMAS P. MOORE II were co<:hairnicn of the .Annual Stag GoU Party on July It, featuring golf at North Hills Countrj-Club and dinner at Oakland Hills Countn' Club. The event featured the presence of FATHER JE­ROME WILSON, Messrs. EDWARD KRAUSE, HUGH DEVORE, etc., plus trophies and an abundance of door prizes. 
Future events include a summer party m late August «ith LAWRENCE O. SMITH, JR., as chairman; a September party welcomnig ;" ' '•'"h­men and their lathers, conducted by JOHN fc. COURTNEY, JOHN NEIS, and ROBERT B.AT­TISTA; and future e\-ents including a football trip (JOHN W. ANHUT), Communion breakfast (ROB­ERT VOGELWXDE and ROBERT RONEY), Christmas dance (JOHN C. MURRAY) spnng retreat (JAMES N. MOTSCHALL and EDWARD J EWING, JR.), and annual meeting in March (WILLIAM E. CARROLL and JAMES P. DANA­
HER). 
El Paso 
The Notre Dame .Alumni club of El Paso, TM. , had its annual summer meeting in Silver City, New Mexico on June 24th and 25th. Among the weekend activities were a picnic in nearby Gila National Forest, a communion breakfast, and tours of Tyrone (a ghost-town) and the Santa Rita mine. JIM RYAN, JR., '53, of Silver City, was in charge ol arrangements for the weekend. 
—JOHN H. HADDOX, '54, Secy. 

Erie 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated in Erie Pa. with a banquet at the Beadicomber Hotel, with Irosh coach HUGH DEVORE as guest speaker. More than 80 alumni, wives and families attended. Installed as 1961-62 officers were RA^'OJ D J^,­LEGLER, president; .ANTHONY J. ZAMBROW­SKI, rice-president; WILLIAM J. DWTER, srere­tarv; and EDWARD KERN, treasurer. Honored as Notre Dame Man of the Year was GEORGE J. MEAD, '27, Erie ncvxspaperman and Knight of St. Gregory. 
Flint 
Following April's gala Universal Xotrc Dame Night, %vith FATHER JAMES MORAN as a gu«t from the campus, some members repaid the visit in June, notably past president JIM SHERRY, who also culminated his term as president of the Class of '36. 
Fort Lauderdale 
Activities in Southern Florida came to a snail's pace after another fast, furious and_ prosperous tourist season, thanks to all our good friends in the North. Club members arc all taking ad\-antagc of the slack season to rest, relax and do a little travel­ing. JOHN CALLAN, '21, and his wife, Eileen, have been enjoying themselves in Europe. Speaking of Europe, BOB GORE III, stationed overseas with the Army, ^vas married to Susan Ballou from Holly­wood, Florida. The wedding took place in Basil, Su-itzerland, on June 7th. 
The June meeting held at the Sun Castle Club in Pompano, was open to wii-es and guests. FRANK BUDKA, fresh from his first year at school, had much to talk about. Frank, as we all know, is the potential starting quarterback for the University next year. Tlie Fort Lauderdale Club, proud of a home town boy making good, wishes to extend their best to Frank for a successful career at school. 
Fourth of July found Club members and guests at our annual parly. Cocktail party, picnic and fire­works were on tap for the day. July 13 saw Alumni Secretary JIM ARMSTRONG ratified as president­elect at the American Alumni Council's national conference in Holly^vood Beach, while editor JOHN LAUGHLIN sat in on a meeting at the Governor's Club. 
In conclusion, and on behalf of the Notre Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale, congratulations upon their graduation from the Unlversltv' to JOHN F. FLANIGAN, THOMAS S. WARREN and D.WID 
W. COOMBS of Fort Laudenlalc; BRUCE R. CAMPBELL of Pompano; PETER DORAN of Boca Raton; CHARLES QUINN, III, of Delrav Beach; and JOSEPH LIBBY of Palm Beach. 
—TOM MAUS, Secy. 

36 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September^ 
UTAH—President-elect Roney (left) and Vice-President-elect DiGiacomo extend mutual congratulations on recent revival of alumni acti\ity in Salt Lake City. 
Fort Wayne 
Tlic Club's golf outing at the Orchard Ridge Countrj' Club on Tuesday, June 20th featured golf, swimming and/or cards in the afternoon beginning any time after 1:00 followed by cocktails and a family style chicken dinner. .-Vfter dinner a very brief awarding of golf prizes preceded our speaker of the evening, Mr. JOE DOYLE, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune. 
—BILL KEANE, Chairman 

Green Bay 
REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., was guest speaker at the Universal Notre Dame Night meeting In Green Bay, Wis., on April 27. 
Hawaii 
As stated last Issue, MOST REV. JAMES J. SWEENEY, Bishop of Honolulu, v^-as principal speaker at the 38tli annual Universal Notre Dame banquet in Hawaii, held at the Pacific Club with TO.M FLYNN as host. President DON MACHADO was in charge of all arrangements for the evening. The Club had just concluded sponsorship of a lec­ture series on the Ecumenical Council at Chaminade College, and REV. FRANCIS NAKAGAWA, chair­man of the college's theology department, had said: "To the members of the Notre Dame Club of Ha­waii must go special commendations for being the first lay organization in the entire United States to have sponsored, financially and whole-heartedly, such a program of public service highlighting the Council. You have already received a citation from your own national secretariate, and we In Hawaii would tell the rest of the nation about it." 
Hiawathaland 
Universal Notre Dame was celebrated by the Upper Peninsula Notre Damers on .April 15. with an appearance and talk by DR. JAMES BYRNE, '40, of St. Thomas College. 
Houston 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Houston hosted Head Football Coach JOE KUHARICH as guest speaker at our annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner. LEIGHTON F. YOUNG ('37) was honored as Notre Dame Man of the Year for the invaluable as­sbtance and guidance he has given our local alumni group. LOUIS J. RYMKUS ('43), head football coach of the Houston Oiler professional football team, introduced Mr. Kuharich. THOMAS B. BRENNAN ('49), scr\'cd as Master of Ceremonies. A good crowd attended the affair. 
We were also honored to have JAMES E. ARM­STRONG, national Alumni Secretary, and James 
W. Frick, assistant director of the Foundation, in town recently. Both spoke to us at a dinner party held at River Oaks Country Club. Tlieir presence marked the ofiiclal beginning of the *'Fund for the 
1961 
Future" Drive In the Houston area. Evcr>'one en-gf joyed their company tremendously. ^ A business meeting u'as held at which time offi­cers for the coming year were elected as follows: 
T. GEORGE McHALE ('23), president; ALFRED 
C. DcCRANE JR. ('53), vice-president; RALPH H. S.\UER ('60), secretary; and DAVID A. MILLER (*59), treasurer. Tlie Ladies Auxiliary' have also elected officers as follows: Mrs. LEO £. LINBECK, president; Mrs. ALFRED C. DeCRANE^ JR., vice-president; Mrs. RALPH H. SAUER, recording secretary; Mrs. T. A. MILLER, corresponding sec­retary; and Mrs. HARRY A. CALLAHAN, treas­urer. 
Plans for the coming year Include a picnic at LAWRENCE J. KELLY's ('42) ranch, a commu­nion breakfast during the first part of December and the annual Christmas dance at the Houston Club. New alumni coming into the Houston area, as well as anyone else, are urged to call the Alumni number listed in the telephone director^' or 0" any of the officers for any information concerning *" our club and Its activities. 
—RALPH H. SAUER, Secy. 

Indianapolis 
On Thursday, June 22. the N.D. Club of Indian­apolis held the annual Stag Outing at McNamara's Farm, featuring charcoal-broiled hamburgers and suitable refreshments. JOE DESAUTELS and BOB KANE were co-chairmen. 
Tlie annual Golf Outing was held July 20 at Hlllcrest Countr>- Club. FRANK QUINN and com­mittee (JIM WELCH, LEO BARNHORST, BUD TURNER) lined up an Impressive guest list, a fine steak dinner, and plenty of prizes. 
Kansas City 
The Notre Dame Club of Kansas City was well represented at the 1961 reunion. Among those at­tending were JOHN MASSMAN, '56; TO.M McGEE. '51; SALVATORE NIGRO. '36; SALVA­TORE DI GIOVANNI, '36; THOMAS OAKES, '31; JAY REYNOLDS, '41; and CARL ERFFMEYER, *51. Wc certainly enjoyed renewing old friendships and \isltlng the campus. Our only regret is that the visit had to be so short. 
A Newsletter for the Notre Dame Club of Kansas Cit>- is being published periodically by TOM McGEE. Its purpose Is to acquaint the Kansas City alumni with the activities of their Notre Dame friends and fellow alumni. Tom is to be congratu­lated on the results of his efforts. 
Upon the occasion of a luncheon in May, the Notre Dame Auxiliary' held an election of new offi­cers. Elected to lead the Au\iliar>' in 1961 were ^ .MRS. JOSEPH SHAUGHNESSY, JR., president; % MRS. HARLOW B. KING, vice-president; MRS. JAMES H. DcCOURSEY, JR., recording sccrctar>-; MRS. VIRGIL F. SODEN, corresponding secrctarj"; MRS. JERRY F. SODEN, treasurer; and MRS. GEORGE J. McLINEY, auditor. MRS. NORMAN 
P. GORDON, the retiring .Auxiliary' president, pre­sented JOHN MASSMAN, the club president, with a check for 51300.00 for the Library- Fund. Also In attendance were JIM HIGGINS, CHUCK O'NEILL and JOE SHAUGHNESSY, JR. 
Another event sponsored by the AuxIIIarv- was a cocktail party. July 1. 1%1. Tlie event was held at the home of DR. and MRS. ALBERT NIGRO and was a great success. 
JOHN DA\\*, '52. was used as a subject in a booklet prepared by the American Institute of Architects to acquaint Its members more fully with the work and alms of the Institute. John is a mem­ber of an architectural partnership which also In-^ eludes JOHN SEE, '51. 
We arc glad to report that there was vcr>* good response to the dues statements sent out this year. —CARL B. ERFFMEYER, *5I, Secy. 
AUXILIARY 

The lovely home of Mre. HENRY J. MASSNLVN, JR., %%'as the scene of the May lunclieon and meet­ing of the Auxiliary* to the University of Notre Dame Club of Kansas City. 
Mrs. NOMAN P. GORDON, retiring president of the women's organization, was presented a silver tray by Mrs. GEORGE J. HIGGINS, JR., In be­half of the entire membership thanking her for the outstanding manner In which she performed the 
presidential duties during the past year. JOHN T. MASSMAN. president of the men's group, gave a short talk and installed the new officers 2Uid board members. Besides the officers mentioned above, the board sW members Include: Mrs. NORMAN P. GORDON, Mrs. PAUL T. McGANNON, Mrs. JOSEPH S. 
GEISEL, JR., Mrs. HAROLD R. SOLOMON, Mrs. 
0 WILLIAM H. DUNN, Mn. STAN SCHILLING, Mrs. JOHN A. COLGAN, Mrs. JOHN L. DAW, Mrs. RUBY BANDAGE, Mrs. CHARLES H. STEV­INSON, Mrs. LEONARD LeCLUYSE, and Mrs. WILLIAM P. DcCOURSEY. 
Mrs. H. EDWARD VANDEN BOOM, JR., Secy. 
Kentucky: 
The Xotrc Dame Club of Kentucky has just added two new (or I should say future) members to its roster. Miss Claire LaVetra Brand bom on June 15 is anxious to meet with the Ladies Auxiliary, and Master ifichael DcCamillis, son of WILL DcCx\­MILLIS ('59) born on June 5, wants to carry the banner at the 1962 Coq>us Christ! Procession. Need­less to say both us fathers are bursting with pride. 
Changing from the membership news to the reli­gious and social actKities, the Club as a group has also been very bu5>*. Tlic retreat held May 27-29 at 

O 
the Abbey of Our Lady of Gethscmani met with limited success. An administrative mix-up on the dates forced our chairman, BILL WlJETCHER ('52) to do some fast and fanc>- foot\*-ork. All members are urged to attend the general meeting in July and October when we plan to discuss changing the gen­eral time of the retreat. 
The summer Communion Breakfast fell on Corpus Christ! Sunday and ser\"ed as the beginning of a rather active day. Later in the afternoon Club members assembled to march !n the Corpus Christ! Procession at Churchill Downs. 
Over 65 Club members attended a dinner meeting on June 12 at the Louisville Boat Club. Our guest speaker was MOOSE KRAUSE, ^vho gave us a brief rundown on what to expect from the athletic pro­gram in 1961-62. He was backed up bv BOB LEH­MANN, TO.MMY FINNEGAN, EDDIE SCHN'URR and TOM MEAGHER —each having an active part in that program. Leading the student repre­

O 
sentation were the officers of the Kentucky Club on campus headed by President MIKE DOUGHERTY. An old tradition was rcxived at the dinner when President JACK MUELLER ('51) presented past presidents LEO BROWN ('50) and PAUL MA­LONEY f'52) with silver trays — just a small token of the Club's appreciation for their work. Moose was presented with a julep cup and a promise that we'd fill the set if he would stop by more often. 
The summer promises to bring the group together at the July meeting and the annual outing in con­junction with the St. Xavicr alumni group. The big ball game for the little brown jug aga!n highlighted the event. 
LaCrosse 

•-* AUGIE GRA.MS, long time lo>-al Notre Dame 
^ ' alumnus, was awarded the coveted N'otrc Dame Man of the Year Award at the annual celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night at John Elliot's Hotel Stoddard. Angle, Indicative of his '^personal re­sponsibility" was at the bedside of his wife (since recovered) at the Mayo Clinic and u-as not present to receive his scroll. STEVE PAVELA accepted for Grams. 
MOOSE KRAUSE was guest speaker and at­tracted some 150 Notre Dame men, their wives and guests. Mr. Krausc's appearance and effective talk caused the event to be one of the most successful in the histor\' of the local organization. Many of Moose's friends from Wtnona. Minn., where he began his coaching career at St. Mar>''s College, were on hand to join in the festivities; also, alumni from Holy Cross, another stop on his road back to Notre Dame. DICK HAMILTON did a great job as M.C., and the event was successfully and ver>' cap­
ably engineered by Secretary- BERNIE LAVINS. Larins, incidentally, has since changed his residence to Dearborn, Michigan, where he assumed a new position with American Standard. The fine job he did as an officer of the cliib the past two years Is ap­preciated by fellow members. DON SIEGER, present treasurer, will scr\'c the balance of the year as secreiar\'-trcasurcr and fill out Lavins' term. 
A new club activity sclieduled for this summer Is a family picnic. BILL MURPHY, vice-president, is In charge of the event. Word from DAVE HYDE, chairman of the club's fall steak fr>*, is that all Is in readiness for the outtng, and Dave promises that the activity will be one of the most successful ever. 
—STEVE PAVELA, '48, Secy. 

t» Lansing 
REV. JOHN E. WALSH, C.S.C., director of the 1^ Notre Dame Foundation, was guest speaker for Notre Dame Night, held at the Pick Motor Hotel 
on April 13. 
Present were President and Mrs. ROBERT H. 
MOONEY, JR., '52; Vice-President and Mrs. RICHERT G. SCHNEIDER, '32; Secretary- and Mrs. JOHN F. POWERS, '55; Treasurer and Mrs. PAUL DeROSE, '53; and Chaplain RT. REV. MSGR. JOHN A. SLO\VEY. 
Board members and their wives included: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD E. ALFES, '55; Mr. and Mrs. ERNEST A. HOUGHTON, JR., '50; Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM J. H. KANE, '54; Mr. and Mrs. CLEMENT McFARLANE, '38. 
Other members and wives present were: Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS F. ALLEN, '60; Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT F. BROWNING, '43; RT. REV. .MSGR. OSMONDO A. CALIP, '53; RICHARD COLLINS; Dr. and .Mrs. JEROME F. CORDES, '43; Mr. and Mrs. JAMES R. EHINGER, '53; Judge and Mrs. TIMOTHY M. GREEN, '47; Mr. and Mrs. CLAR­ENCE J. HESS, '33; Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH J. HUNT; Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD J. MAYOTTE, '50; Mr. and .Mrs. DONOVAN J. RAU, '28; Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD E. RINEHART, and WIL­LIAM A. STAPLETON, '52. 
Guests included Rev. Julian Fuzer. O.F.M.; Mr. and Mrs. Lee Sheffer, parents; Mr. Vlrgillo G. Mendoza. Quezon City, Philippines; Michael P. Bclgan, president of the Newman Club at Michigan State; Rev. Mark Mlndnip, O.F.M. Conv.; Rt. Rev. Msgr. Jerome V. MacEachin; Mr. and Mrs. Norman 
A. Fedewa and Mr. and Mrs. John H. Alfes, par­ents; Mr. and Mrs. John Hartung, Lloyd Bush, Mr. and Mrs. .\. Starr Hull, Mr. and Mrs. George Fuller, Rev. Eugene Sears, Rev. Robert Kavanaugh, Rt. Rev. Herman P. Fcdr%va, and REV. JOHN E. WALSH, C.S.C. 
Maine 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Maine planned an an­nual picnic during the summer and we hoped to have the same usual good attendance from all over the State as we have had in the past. With a couple of new alumni just graduated and with a few pros­pective students planning to go out from our fair State wc arc enthused for the future. 
I have made an appeal and through this letter again appeal to all ^fainc alumni to send In their Foundation donation. We may not be big in num­ber but we hope wc can be large in percentage of givers. 
—RAY GIEGER, Secy. 
Mansfield 
To bring you up-to-date on the activities of our 
local Notre Dame Club of ^{3nsfield, Ohio, wc sub­
mit the following information: 
A ver>' successful Holiday Dance was sponsored 
by the Club on December 28, 1960. 
Tlic Notre Dame Glee Club appeartd in Mans­
field on Jan. 28, and the local Club helped sponsor 
a reception after the concert. 
In ^farch elections were held, with the following 
officers being unanimously re-elected to serve In 
their previous capacities: JOHN C. O'DONNELL. 
SR.. '24, president; LEO SCANLON, '30, «ce­
prcsldcnl; GEORGE K.\VANAUGH. '31, treasurer; 
and DICK WALTER, '41, secretary-. HERB FRYE 
was elected by acclalmation to ser\'c a three-year 
term as director. 

April 10 was obser\-cd as Universal Notre Dame Night by the Club in the form of a dinner at the Mansfield-Leland Hotel and a party afterwards at the K of C Hall. 
At the May 10th meeting the following tentative calendar of ev'ents was scheduled: June 14, combined business and social meeting, with the wives of mem­bers invited; a retreat, scheduled for last week of June; a family picnic In July or August; a football trip, Sept. 30th, to the Oklahoma game; and in December, Immaculate Conception family Commu­nion and the Annual Holiday Dance. 
Further committees and definite dates for the ac­tivities will be announced at a later date. 
—DICK WALTER, Secy. 

Memphis 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Memphis ob­served Universal Notre Dame night with a. banquet April 17 at the University Club. REV. JOHN WALSH, newly named director of the Notre Dame Foundation, was our guest speaker. His topic — the responsibilities of an alumnus to his alma mater. 
About 75 alumni and their wives attended the roast beef dinner. A movie about campus life was shown. 
Three weeks later the club met to elect officers. JOHN REYNOLDS, '56, commercial loan execu­tive with First National Bank, was named president. He succeeds RAYMOND H. *MICKEY' MORAN, '53. 
Other officers are ROY GILUA, '56, vice-presi­dent and an accountant with Peat, Marwick, Mitch­ell & Co.; and TOM WHITMAN, '59. secretary-treasurer and also with First National. 
—RICHARD J. CONNELLY, '55, Secy. 

Mid-Hudson Valley 
The Mid-Hudson Valley Club celebrated Uni­versal Notre Dame Night Saturday, April 8, 1961, at Wendovcr Farms in Poughkeepsie. DON REYN­OLDS, Club President, opened the dinner meeting by reviewing the history and purpiisc of Universal 
N.D.
 Night and identified this year's theme as Personal Responsibility. He defined personal re­sponsibility requirements as the free and deliberate acceptance of one's obligations In the position he occupies .. . in the family, in the church, in the profession, in the community, and in the nation. .All alumni were urged to participate actively in both civic and church programs. HUGHIE DEVORE. 

N.D.
 Freshman Football Coach, was the principal speaker and talked on "Notre Dame Today." Among the more noteworthy points covered were: the Uni­versity's new thirteen story main library that will be erected on Cartler Field; the future plans for eastward campus expansion that will result in the new library being centrally located; and limitation of the student body to its present size, six thousand. In addition, Hughie related some of the humorous inci­dents that he has f>bserved during his college foot­ball coaching days and reviewed the future pros­pects for the Notre Dame football teams. Dancing In Wendovcr's new ballroom rounded out this year's celebration of Universal N.D. Night. BOB OR­TALE, BRIAN O'NEILL and CHARLIE BECK 


CONNECTICUT VALLEY—Hartford area officers for 1961 are (l.-r.) Roger Tremblay, '55, treasurer; Ted Paulding, '52, secretary; Bob McGoldrick, '56, vice-president; and Jim Flaherty, '53, president 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 37 
handled the rcscrv-attons x^ith their usual top notch cfficienc>'. 
Later events planned for the Club included Rev­erend Norman Bordcau, A.A., speaking at tlie May dinner meeting in TOX\' BUONO's Excliangc Hotel in Saugcrtics (Election of ofliccrs at this meeting); June 17th Theatre Party in New York City (alumni and wives are travelling to Kcw York for a night on the town and to see the Drama Critics' award-win­ning star. Tammy Grimes, in "Tlie Unsinkable Molly Brown"); and the annual Alumni Family Picnic to be held Sunday, August 20th at E^Tnard Seminar>' in Hyde Park. 
—DONALD J. REYNOLDS, Prcs. 
Miami 

Vacationing President JIM SMITH sent a dele­gation from t!ic Greater Miami Club out to Holly­wood Bcacli on July 8 to welcome tlic Alumni Asso­ciation's executive secrctar\-. JIM ARMSTRONG, and his assistant JOHN LAUGHLIN, down in the Land of Sunshine for a week-long national conference of the American Alumni Council, during which Mr. Armstrong was officially designated as president-elect of the 2,000-member organization for 1962-63. Meet­ing in HolK-wood's Diplomat Hotel were Second Veep DR. ' BILL McSH.ANE, Secretary- BOB PROBST, Treasurer GEORGE HERO, former Foundation Chairman I. L PROBST, etc. 
Mohawk Valley 

The Notre Dame .•\lumni Club of the Moliawk Valle>* held its annual obser\-ance of Universal Notre Dame Night on Friday, .April 7, at The Beeches, Rome, N.Y. Highlights of the evening were the principal speech given by REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., and the presentation of the "Notre Dame Man of the Year" award to D.\NIEL 
E. WATERBURY, '44, of Whitesboro, the club's immediate i>ast president. 
The presentation was made by KENNETH F. MURPHY, '54, of Utica, club president, and the scroll was accepted by Daniel E. Watcrbury, Jr., in his father's absence. 
Murphy also announced that the club is planning to sponsor an excursion to South Bend on the week­end of No\Tembcr 18 for the Notre Dame-Syracuse football game. He also introduced VINCENT FLETCHER, '32. of Utica. who is area chairman for the Special Gifts Committee drive. 
Area high school seniors who had been accepted by the Uni\*ersitv for the September '61 semester were introduced by RICHARD T. TROSSET, *53, of Utica, club rice-president and chairman of the club's high scliool screening committee. 
GERALD B.\CHMAN, '52. of Whitcsboro. ^x-as chairman of the affair and acted as Master of Cere­monies. He was assisted bv co-dtairman .\NTHON\'' 
J. GIRUZZI, of Utica. 
Others at the head table who were introduced by Bachman included L. DANIEL CALLAN, '49, club secretary-, and THOMAS R. RE.AGAN, '49, club treasurer, both of New Hartford. 
The invocation and benediction were rendered by the Rc\-. Thomas J. Ncary, assistant pastor of St. Tliomas Aquinas Church in New Hartford. Special guest was Club Cliaplain REV. JOHN MADDEN, '53, Assistant Pastor of St, .Agatha's Churcli, Canas­tota. 
FATHER O'DONNELL, speaking on the theme for the 38th annual Universal Notre Dame Night— ^'Personal Responsibility"—told his audience that it is the Universit>''s hope that its alumni uill "stimu­late the Notre Dame family to an active response that will multiply the implementation of personal responsibility through all the cliannels of business, professional, social and cultural life to whicli our alumni contribute their leadership and example-" 
The speaker, a 1941 graduate of the University, stated that the "social ideals and purposes of mod-cm man, due to the declining influence of religious and moral convictions and the triumph of the ma­terial, tend in many subtle ways to efface the sense of responsibility. 
*'There is an excessive preoccupation with material security at the expense of spiritual well-being," he said. "The correction of these basically moral evils and the restoration of a ligorous sense of personal responsibility belong primarily to the field of reli­gion." 
FATHER O'DOXNELL said a university educa­tion must be directed chiefly to impress the intellec­tual rirtues. "For anyone to hold that it is no business at all for a university e\*er to contribute to the formation of moral \irtues is in error," he staled. 
The presence of the wives of many of the alumni and "subway" alumni helped to swell the attendance at the obsen-ance to over 80. 
MID-HUDSON VALLEY— Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated by alumni, wives and ^ests at Wcndover Farms in Poughkeepsic. Here (from left) N.D. freshman coach Hugh Devore discusses the meeting with Club President Don Reynolds, '53, and Treasurer Brian 0*NeiU, '56. 
JAMES T. GRIFFLV, '34, of Rome, has recently 

been appointed general cliairman of a fund raising 
drive to solicit monej* for the erection of a new 
Catholic high scliool in Rome. Jim is a Rome at­
torney-. 
Tlie dub expresses its deepest s\-mpathy and 
heartfelt prayers to Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT P. 
FLETCHER, '56, on the death of their firstborn, 
an infant girl. 
Tlie Notre Dame Band appeared before a full 
house in Little Falls on Tuesday, April 11, at the 
Rialto Theatre. The Rialto is managed by NICHO­
L.-\S J. KAUFFMAN, '27, of that town. Nice coinir, 
Nick! 
Muskegon 
Tlie ^^uskcgon Notre Dame Club obscr\cd Uni­versal Notre Dame Night April 10 with REV. JAMES MORAN, C.S.C., the University's director of admissions, as principal speaker. 
Naugatuck Valley 
Elected as 1961-62 officers of tlie N.D. Club of the Xaugaluck Vallej- were: DOMENIC A. NAR­DUCCI, JR., '52, Naugatuck, Conn., president; THOMAS K. HUBBARD, '56. Torrington, vice-president; THOMAS REILLY, '49, Wolcott, secre­tary; and JAMES SCIGLIANO, '42, Waterburj-, treasurer. Chaplain is REV. HENRY CODY. Mem­bers of the Board of Directors are MAURICE NOONAN, \nLLMM DWYER, and ALFRED SULLIVAN. D. FRANK MURNANE is Founda­tion cliairman, and JAMES SCIGLIANO is chair­man of the inter\lc\ving and scholarsliip committees. 
Uni\-ereal Notre Dame Night at the Waverly Inn, Cheshire, featured a talk by REV. THOMAS J. O'DON'NELL, C.S.C., a taped message from FA­THER HESBURGH, and presentation of the Notre Dame Man of the Year au-ard to DR. ROBERT DUBOI S as a founding member and lo>-al supporter of the Club. Later events were a cocktail party in May, a family picnic in June, and a theatre partv in July. 
—THOMAS E. REILLY, '49, Secy. 

New Jersey 
Elections of new officers for the Notre Dame Alumni Club of New Jersey were presided over by JOE McKEON, Past President, at the Glen Ridge Country Club, June 15, 1961. Tlic new officers are: President, BRUCE DOLD; Vice-President, JACK SAND; Treasurer, HANK BORDA; and Sccretarj-, PETE REGAN. 
The Annual Golf Outing of the New Jersey Notre Dame Alumni Club was held June 15, 1961 at the Glen Ridge Countrj- Club, Glen Ridge, Ne^v Jersey. Tliis was a great day for the hundred plus members and friends who attended this en­jo>-able outing. Chairman of the day was BRUCE DOLD, Master of Ceremonies was GENE DEAN, Introduction of Guests by ANGELO BERTELLI. g. 
Golf prizes were awarded for the following dis-V tinctions: low gross, MICKEY DOYLE (74); low-net, ANGELO AMATO (149-83-69); biggest cry­baby, FRANK TRIPUCKA and JACK LONG; eagle on 1st hole, RED OUTERBRIDGE; Best Dressed, BUCKY REGAN; Worst Dressed, ERNIE RAUSCHER; biggest handicap, JOE BYRNE (111); Shortest ball off the 1st Tee, JIM SEBOLD. 
Some of the 100 present were: TO.M KRUG, JACK SAND, BILL DEGNAN, SR., & son, PETE QUINN & son, MYLES KELLY, HARRY STEV­ENSON, PETE REGAN, LEO COSTELLO, GENE DEAN, HARRY DURKIN, ANGELO BERTELLI, FRANK TRIPUCKA, ANGELO AMATO, BOB JOYCE, CHUCK McMAHON, JACK LONG, JOE McKEON, JOHN KELLY, JOE BRYNE, III, GENE CODEY, PETE «c DON LUSARDI, GEORGE SW-EET, DAN BURKE, RAY TROY, TOM FARLEY, RED OUTERBRIDGE, GEORGE WENZ, HANK BORDA, JIM SEBOLD, BILL f WALDRON and HARRY IVRIGHT. ' 
Special Features — the introduction of scvenil re­cent grads including BILL CROSBY (1960-61 basket­ball captain), some incoming freshmen who hope to make the ball team and a rc^\' informative w*ords from TOM LIGGIO and JACK DOW, %-arsity members of this year's football squad. 
Members who contributed to the lar^e pool of prizes were: BUCKY REGAN, ANGELO BER­TELLI, FRANK TRIPUCKA, GEORGE WENZ, JOHN KELLY, RED OUTERBRIDGE, PETE LUSARDI. GENE CODEY, PETE REGAN, BILL WALDRON, JOE BYRNE III, PETE QUIN^N, BOB JOYCE. JIM SEBOLD, JACK LONG, and LEO COSTELLO. 
—PETER F. REGAN, Secy. 

New Mexico 
Plans for the Club's /Vnnual Picnic called for a ^ bigger-than-ever e\'cnt to be held in late July or early August. Tlic location for this picnic-business meeting has yet to be finalized at this WTiting, but the committee promises another good time with plenty of the riglit beverages for all. Tliis year DICK EVERROAD has arranged a " win" for the .Mumni in the Softball game \rilh the students home-on-vacation — MIKE McGUINNESS has al­ready received special umpiring instructions. 
—BILL HARXXy, *52, Secy. 

New Orleans 
Officers who were elected at our recent Universal Notre Dame Ni.ght are as follows: President, JOHN PETITBON; Vice-President, THOMAS J. Mc\L\HON; \nce-President. ED McQARTHY; Treasurer. JOSEPH B. D.VVID, III; and Secretary, ^ JOSEPH BEACH. 
—JOHN PETITBON, Pres. 

New York 
DAN BRICK was chairman of the annual Golf Outing at Lcc\*-ood Golf Club on June 27, featuring a special Westchester x-s. Long Island Tournament, refreshments on the back nine, dinner, trophies, etc. 
Tlie Long Island dirision, under TOM WALSH, completed a discussion series on education, treated elsewhere in this issue, and sponsored a pool part>' on June 8. Tlie Island was host for a family picnic on July 8 at Brookville, L.I., with JIM KELLY and JOHN LaMAIRE as co-chairmen. The West­cliester dirision held a picnic on July 30, and plans arc complete for the Third .-Xunual Picnic for the Bo\-s at St. Mar>-'s Home on Long Island. 
MOOSE KRAUSE had a commentar>- on the Spring Game and fall prospects at the May 16 Foot-^ ball Smoker on Traveis Island, with FRED CA­RIDEO in charge of arrangements, and alumni were much in evidence at a reception for BISHOP McCAULEY of Fort Portal, Uganda, East Africa, held June 22 at the Hotel Commodore. 
Northern California 
On Universal Notre Dame night, celebrated April 10, we honored BUCK SHAW and WALTER LaBERGE at dinner at the Algier's in Redwood City. We also installed ofliccrs for the Notre Dame Club of Northern California. 
NCTV officers are: President, WILLIAM C. Mc­GOW.AN, '41; Vice-President, JOHN CR.\NT, '49; Treasurer, THOMAS KERNAN, '55; and Secretary, PAUL CUSHING, JR., '59. 
—>VILLIAM C ^fcGOWAN, Prw. 

Oregon ­
EDWARD L. CASEY, '40, clima.xcd the unusual honor of twice being president of the RIKC Festi\*al 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 
A Association by heading one of the most spectacular 
^ parades in the 52-ycar history of the unique Floral Parade, in early June. With t>-pical business acumen and leadership, Ed put the festival back in the bjack the last t^ro years after It had been in finan­<jal difficulty. 
The follou-ing week a more venerable son of Xotrc Dame, Circuit Judge FRANK J. LONER­
•GAN, '(H, capped a long career in public ser%"icc to his fellow-Orcgonians by receiving the Certificate of Recognition of the National Conference of Chris­tians and Jews for his quarter-ccntur>' of work with that group. Frank was one of the founders, hax'ing been called to Washington by President Franklin D. Roosevelt to start the Conference. 
Exponent of the true N.D. spirit, PETE SAND­ROCK, *39, put on the gold braid of his Lieut.­XISNR uniform to welcome the N.D. men aboard the fifteen Na\y ships that Wsited Portland for the iRosc Festiv'al. Pete spent much time showing our 

(A sights to Ensign PAUL J. POLKING, '59, and Lt.-JG P.AUL SUTHERL.\ND, '59, and Lt.-JG JOHN L. SULLIVAN, Nax-al Academy, '59. Other 
N.D. men known to be aground but unreachable were Lt. Com. JAMES R. KENNEDY, and Ensign JOHN H. REARDON. Sorr>- we missed the latter. Our thanks to Pete for his hospitality to our visi­tors. CHARLIE SLATT, '33, our president, PAUL NEWMAN, '55, and yours truly enjoyed lunch with Messrs. Polking and Sulli\'an. 
This friendship of N.D. men for their fellow­N.D.ers has always struck me since, back in 1940 on a business visit to a city in Illinois, I chanced on an N.D. "stranger." He closed up shop, took me to lunch, and spent a couple of hours touring me about the countrv-side. Ever since, I've felt an obligation to do likcAs-isc. Sorr>- to say, IVe forgotten his name —but not his example. 

Speaking of welcomes — congratulations and best i(A wishes to the largest number of N.D. graduates ever 
•V
 to return to Oregon — at least until Uncle Sam or other pursuits take them elsewhere: JAMES E. ADAMS, Bcaverton; ANTONI KOSYDER, Toledo; GEORGE L. KROPP, Salem; GEORGE E. ^LACK III, Oswego; DAN J. MITOLA, JR., GERALD C. SMITH, and JAMES F. TWOHY, all Portland. Receinng graduate degrees: RICHARD MCLJUN , Aloha; MILTON PETERSON, Portland; ROGER 

F.
 TOTH, Portland; ROBERT S. TURLEY, La­Grand—all Master of Arts; and ROBERT E. WALSH, Oswego, MSEE. Gentlemen, wc look for-Avard to having all, or most, of you with us in our activities. 



—TOM MAGEE, *52, Scc>-. 
Peoria 
The Club held its annual election of Officers at 

((h the Pabst 33 Room, Peoria Heights, on June 5th. JOHN MANION, the outgoing President, re­\*iewed the events of the past year which included the "Back To School" Dinner, the Christmas Dance," the Communion Breakfast, the St. Patrick's Part\', and the annual Chib highlight. Universal Notre Dame Night. Although the year's events could not be considered "financial successes," it was unanimously agreed that the Club Program for I960 had been an overt^'hclming success in the accom­plbhment of it's real purpose whicli is "to repre­sent Notre Dame in this Communitv* to best ad\*an­tagc; encourage interest and good fellowship among the Notre Dame Alumni; to promote, by organized effort, the welfare of Notre Dame and of individual Notre Dame .Mumni, and the programs of the Alumni Association and the Notre Dame Founda­tion; and to cooperate as Notre Dame Alumni in supporting and developing, through moral, rcsponsi­ble leadership the proper activities of this .Commu-. 
Tlie new Club Officers were elected as follows: TOM ECKLAND, BSC '53, president; BOB GOR­DON, BSCE '52, vice-president; BOB MANNING, LLB '60, secretary; and TIM GORMAN .\B '60, treasurer. Tim took on more responsibility when he was married to Miss Judith Gunther in St, Boni­face Church (Peoria) on July 8th. 
We regret losing members JIM McCARTHY (\vho has been transferred to Davenport, Iowa, with U.S. G>T>sum) and H.ANK WANER. being moved to Springfield, Illinois, by Illinois Bell Tele­phone. 
Tlie Club also has received word that JOE LANGTON (our I960 Man of The Year) will soon be leaving Peoria to move to Ottawa, III. Knowing Joe, wc suspect that he will be as active a Notre Dame Club of Peoria man from Ottawa, as he has been while liring in Peoria. 

' 9 Our special congratulations to Mr. and Mrs. JERRY KLISE who were blessed with a son on July 8th. 
—TOM ECKLAND, Pres. 
Philadelphia 
More than 100 guests attended the Second Annual Notre Dame Cocktail Party on May 28 in AVynne­wood. Pa., for the benefit of the Memorial Library Fund. The weather was perfect, and a s«-piecc Dixieland Band provided excellent entertainment for participants. But attendance fell far short of expec­tations, and President BART JOHNSON took the opportunity to lecture the membership by letter on the importance of the $18 million "Program for the Future" and the need for support of local projects if the Philadelphia Club is to fulfill its $10,000 pledge to the N.D. Foundation over the next couple of years. 
Coming projects include an air trip to South Bend for the Northwestern game including a first-class flight to Miami for a week at the Carillon Hotel, a return flight to N.D. for the Xa\y game and return to Philadelphia, October 28 to November 4, all-expense for $295 (BILL WHITESIDE, chair­man); a rail trip Nov. 10-12 to Pittsburgh for the N.D.-Pitt game, including lodging at the Penn Sheraton for two nights, all expense for $42.00 (JACK HENRY, chairman); the annual prize draw­ing, this time a trip for two on the N.D.-Miami-
N.D. junket (tickets peddled by Johnson, Whiteside, Henr>-, plus HENRY HATHA>VAY, JI.M LE\T)ON, TY DE.MPSEY, CHARLIE CONLEY, WALT RIDLEY. JOHN MOORHEAD, and CLIFF PRODEHL); and, of course, a determined dues drive by Treasurer Le\-don. 
The last regular meeting was held June 13, along \rith a meeting of the N.D. .-Associates Investment Club. Next event uill be a Back-to-School Party Sept. 12, followed by the Big Drawing at the Oct. 10 meeting preceding the Miami and Pittsburgh safaris. 
Pioneer Valley 
Tlie Club got together for a Communion breakfast December Ilth last. We attended Mass at the Blessed Sacrament Church in Hol>-Dkc and the brakfast was held at the Vankee Pedlar in the same city. The attendance w-as only fair but not discourag­ing. On April 11th at the Oakes Inn in Springfield the Universal Xotre Dame Xight was held. Wc were [orlunatc in having REV. THO.MAS J. O'DOXNELL from the University as our speaker. 

Father O'Donnell was terrific in his talk and created a most favorable impression with the members. The attendance here was a \'ast improvement with ap> proximately fifty members and their wives present. Wc ran into a little difficulty in presenting this pro­gram as it was scheduled for the Oakes Steak House in Holyoke which unfortunately burned to the ground two daj-s before the affair was to be held. This necessitated some quick changes and we even­tually ended up at the Oakes Inn in Springfield. .\cti\-e in the promotion with President DAN O'CONXELL were, G. OMARTIAN, MAURICE CASEY, ART DEMERS, DR. TOM FERRTTER, JOHN F. SULLIVAN, G*RL NILSON, TOM DUNN and R.AY SNIDER. 
President Dan O'ConncU promised the members his usual steak roast on his estate in July. —^VILLL\M A. HURLEY, Secy. 
Rochester 
Universal Notre Dame Night was a huge success as a stag affair this year. It was held on April 6 at the Treadway Inn, with many new faces appearing and plenty of old ones too. TOM HARTZELL, GENE YURGEALITIS, JIM GALEHOUSE, ED CHRISTLUiO, JIM PORCARI, and FRANK CAP­PELINO were seen. 
FATHER O'DONNELL brought us much news from the campus including a tape talk by Father Hesburgh. Our Man of the Year is FRANK J. COLLINS, '22, of Honoeje Falls. JERRY FLYNN was toastmaster. 
A ntrvf slate of officers was named as follows: president, ^VILLLUf J. DEMFSEY, '33, Fairport; Wce-president, JAMES GLEASON, Lima; secretary, EDWARD R. SCHICKLER, '55; treasurer, WIV­LIAM B. O'CONNELL, '50, succeeding JOHN CASEY, '55, who held the books for thre« years running—they finally balance!! 
Plans for the fall solicitation w*erc announced by VIC DeSIMON and CH.AS. O'BRIEN reported on the special gifts campaign. 
The Family Picnic was held on July 8th at Powder Mill Park, with games, refreshments and cooking facilities provided free, featuring a Softball game between alumni and students. The July 17 theater party at the Rochester Theater and the Maplewood Inn will be reported on next issue. 
—ED SCHICKLER, '53, Secy. 

LONG ISLAND Dh-Isron of N.Y. Club holds panel, "A Look at Our Public Schools," featuring alumni educatois (L-r.): Joseph Callahan, '38, Valley Stream H.S.; John Stack, '41, principal, Babylon Junior H.S.; Daniel Hanrahan, '36, Setaukct School District, chairman; William MacDevitt, '50, Elmont Memorial H.S.; and John Martin, '40, North Merrick Schod Board. Not shown is reception committee to honor NJ>. men in puUic educatiiHi: Charles Riifle, '40, Garden City H.S.; Sigmund Sluszka, '35, Sewanhaka H.S.; and Paul Krause, '36, Hempstead H.S. Panel topped two previous meetings on Catholic education, all under the direction of Tom Walsh, '36, retiring divisional vice-president. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 39 
Rome 
Xcvv Distinguished member: TIic morning paper fzarrics the picture of a. figure in bronze on exhibit in Florence and credits JOE McDON'NELL, *59, announcing that Joe. formerly of Detroit. no«- has his own studio in Florence. 
JOHN XXin*s X.D. Cadillac, donated by alumni last year, ivas spotted by local members recently spiriting Queen Elizabeth from the Vatican, follow­ing her audience Vvith the Holy Father. 
Twenty Religious teaching brothers, of the first graduating class of Rome's Jesus Magister Scliool of Theolog\-, held their "Senior Xight Out" at our club. 

Brotherly love: A letter from the Bologna Center of Johns Hopkins Uni\-ersity asks if uc have lodging facilities? Not in the foreseeable future, but we have invited them to make use of our lounge and ser\-iccs when in Rome. We have also had the honor of serving as an address for an inquir\- by Catholic University of America, as to whether there arc any of its alumni of the undergraduate school residing in Rome. A daily bulletin of the U.S. .^ir Force Academy in Colorado comes to us with a notice alerting all cadets who may be N.D. men to \-isit the N.D. Club this summer while in Rome. In the past wc ha\-c already enjoyed fraternal contact with Columbia and Han-ard Universities, and there is now organized in Rome an alumni group of the UnixTrsity of California. 
Departing Distinguished memben BROTHER LOYOLA CHRISTOPH, C.S.C., is leaving Rome after nine years of cxtraordinarx- ser\icc in develop­ing Notre Dame International School for Bo>*5. To special rrgret we add very special gratitude to Brother Loyola for his work In doing the interior decorating of the new N.D. Club hospitality center in Rome. Prc\"ious to his departure there will be a wee bit of a party for him at the center. 
Tlie N.D. Door mat: Tlie most outstanding troop movement over the mat was the Second Notre Dame Alumni European Pilgrimage in .April, fifty strong. Just missing them were the N.D. members of Su­preme Board of the Knights of Columbus, which met this year in Rome. 
Arri\*als who were awarded Honorar>' Member­ship in the Club arc: MOTHER .ANNA MARIE. IHM, Mother General of the Sisters-Scn.-ants of the Immaculate Heart of Mary. M..A,., '41; SISTER 
M. HONORA, IHM, President of Mar>grovc Col­lege. Detroit, M.A.. '25; SISTER M. INEZ, RSM, M.A.. '28. and SISTER M. EDW.ARDINE, RSM, M.A.. '31, both of Mercy College, Detroit. 
.And then the Eternal Viclor>- March: P.AUL HELLMUTH, N.D. Trustee; DONALD O'TOOLE, *31. Cliairman of the Ad\TSor>- Council for .Arts and Letters, with Mrs. CToolc and daughter Nanc>-, St. Mary's, '60; the niece of FATHER PATRICK DOLAN, C.S.C.; DENNIS SHAUL. '60. cx-prex>­of N.D. Student Council; Genc\*ie\'e Meade. SMC. '58; Mary Jean Cimli. SMC, '62; Barbara Moucli. SMC, '62 (Dad, Charles '25, Brother, Chas. II '50, Sister, SMC '51); PROF. GUY H. McMICHAEL; GEORGE E. KEENEN, JR., '38; George IH '65; father of JAMES R. MALONE, '58; Frank, brother of FATHER LAWRENCE P. SULLIVAN, CS.a ; Sister of JAMES C. TANSEY, '39; brother of JEREMIAH BRONSFIELD, '55; GENE McDER-MOTT. '60. U.S. Naw; JAMES J. RALEIGH, '31. father of JOHN S. RALEIGH, '63; J. RUSSELL LONGON, '38, with Chrysler International in Geneva; BROTHER MARCEL, S.C, '56-'58 (sum­mers); ROBERT CURT MATTHEWS, JR., '56; parrots of JIM, '43, BOB, '44, FRANK PURCELL, '59, of Larchmont, N.Y.; mother of DR. TOM CASEY, '57; C. J. HARBEKE and wife, N.D. Prep. '19, of San Francisco; NORM HERWIT. '31. Bev­erly Hills. Cal.; FRANK BEARDSLEY. '55; Man.-, daughter of M. ALBERT HENRY. '27. of Two HaAors, Minn.; FATHER .lOSEPH A. M. KMIECK, C.S.C., U.S. .Air Force in England; 
F. X. JAMES O'BRIEN, '28. of .Miami. Fla.: Dr. and Mrs. C. F. Park, U.S. Na\y. friends of DR. FRANCIS DEGA, '56; TOM JABLONSKI, '59; Mr. and Mrs. FRANK McGINNIS, '24. of Detroit, doing Europe plus in their pri\'3te ''big red bus." shooting cvTrythIng the\-see, making a travel morie. 
An especially welcome guest — coincidental with the N.D. Pilgrimage, %vas FATHER THEODORE 
J. MEHLING, C.S.C., Prowncial of the Indiana Province. 
Three more regretted departures: FATHERS D.AN CURTIN and ROBERT CRUISE, BROTHER ETIENNE COOPER, CS.C. 
Signal thanks to Miss Katie >(urphy of Chicago who while on vacation in Rome \T)Iunteered for the (Jub staff and assisted par excellence. 
40 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 
For Those Who Don't Know: Tlie new Notre Dame Hospitality Center is open all day 'til late, every day. Tlie address Is: L.ARGO BRANCACCIO 82, the telephone: 730002. 
—VINCE.NT McALOON, '34, Secy. 

St. Joseph Valley 
I would like to start out by giving a breakdown of our current roster of Officers and Directors: Chap-Iain, REV. LOUIS J. THORNTON, CS.C ; Hon­orarv President. JAMES E. ARMSTRONG; Presi­dent. ROBERT CAHILL; \lce-Presidenl. GERALD 
G. HAMMES; Sccretarv-. THOMAS F. HANLON; Treasurer, JOSEPH F. DILLON; and Directors, DONALD FISHER, JOSEPH E. HANNAN, BURNIE BAUER, RICHARD N. RILEY, ROBERT 
L. LEHMAN, WILLIAM H. KLE.M, JR., WAYNE WAHL, WM. C. MEEH.AN, JR., THOMAS E. BATH, SAMSON EDER, ALEX F, LESKO, and FRANK E. SULLIX^AN. 
Special committees Include the Scliolarship Com­

mittee (J. FRANK MILES, permanent cliairman: 
FRANK E. SULLIVAN, board representative); 
Committee to Revise Constitution By-Laws and 
Trust Agreement (JOE HANNAN, Chairman; 
FLOYD SEARER, FRANCIS JONES, and JOE 
DILLON); Committee on Membership (Dues, Mail­
ing Lists, etc.) (TOM HANLON, Chairman; AL 
LESKO, and DON FISHER). 
Club events and their chairmen include the Old 

Timers Game. Mav 13. 1961, CAHILL, EARLEY 
and H.AMMES; Golf Day. June 22. P.AUL 
FERGUS; Student Reception. Sept. 13, BILL 
MEEHAN; Annual Communion Sundav, Dec. 10. 
BURNIE BAUER; Football Banquet,' Dec. 12, 
FRAN MESSICK; Christmas Ball, co-sponsored 
with Christ Child Societv (tentative); Rockne Com­
munion Breakfast. April 1. 1962. DICK RILEY; 
and Universal N.D. Night Dinner. April 30. WAYNE 
W.AHL. Some of the above dates could be subject 
to rh^iice. 
Tlie Old Timers game this year was one of the most successful ever — from a financial standpoint 
— because we made more than enough to continue paying for our four full-time and four part-time scholarships at Notre Dame at the present time. 
The Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley held its Annual Golf Outing at the beautiful new Elcona Countrv- Club In Elkhart on June 22. Tliere was a full day's fun as usual vrith golfing, games, cards, refreshments. cJimaxed by a delicious roast beef dinner in the beautiful club dining room. Naturally there were some ver>' fine prizes awarded to winners of the driving contest and other events. 
Continuing with the pattern that was begun last fall, our second reception for incom'mt freshmen to Notre Dame from the St. Joseph Valle\" area will be held as a luncheon again this year on September 13 with BILL MEEHAN In charge of the arrange­ments. 
—TOM HANLON. Secy. 

St. Louis 
On the 29th of June the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis had Its annual Golf Tournament and Stag Dinner. With the renewal of the Notre Dame-St. Louis University basketball rivalrj*, wc of the com­mittee felt that appropriate guests that night should Include representatives of both schools; conse­quently the program included Bob Stewart, St. Louis U. athletic director; John Bennington. St. Louis U. Basketball Coach; GEORGE IZO, St. Louis Football Cardinal quarterback and N.D. '59; Bob Broeg and Bob Bums, sports editors of the St. Louis "Post Dispatch" and St. Louis "Globe Demo­crat" newspapers respectively; and finally ED KRAUSE and JOHN JORD.AN. The master of ceremonies was the best known speaker in St. Louis, 
A. Carl Weber, who Is also director of Research En­gineering of Laclede Steel Company In St. Louis. 
—.ALVIN D. \TrT , '56, Chairman 

San Diego 
Universal Notre Dame Night was observed in a big way in San Diego on April 6. The c\-cnt was marked with a cocktail hour, banquet, and the Notre Dame-University of San Diego baseball game. Guests at the cocktail hcur were HERB .lONES, 
N.D.
 athletic business manager, and JAKE KLINE, 

N.D.
 baseball coach. 


The banquet was held at the Universitv of San Diego, with FRED FOWLER, club president, as master of ceremonies. Tlie guest speaker at the banquet was HERB JONES, who spoke on this year's theme of "personal responsibility," citing CO.ACH KLINE as an example. In the process, he 
1961 

outlined the progress of the N.D. ball team in their ^-Eastcr tour of the West Coast. "*­GERRY BILL spoke for a few minutes In behalf 
of the Notre Dame  Foundation.  
Tlic  Notre  Dame  Man  of  the  Year  award  was  
presented  to JOHN  B. SULLIVAN  by Club  presi­ 
dent  FRED  FOWLER.  Sullivan  was recognized  for  
his  outstanding  service  In  Interviewing  prospective  
undergraduates  seeking  to  enter  Notre  Dame,  In  
helping organize  the local  alumni  cdub, and  in  es­ 
tablishing the annual St. Augustine High School Ap­ 
preciation  Night.  JOHN  SULLIVAN,  president  of  
Sullix'an Storage  and  Transfer  Co.,  is married  and  
has four cliildren. He was graduated cum laude from  
Notre  Dame  In  1948. He  is a  former  president  of  
the  Friendly  Sons  of  St.  Patrick,  a  former  Lions  
Club president, a former  vice-president 'of the  Uni­ 
versity of San Diego Boosters Club, and a  member  
of the Father Serra Club.  
Following the banquet, the club members went to  ^  
Wcstgate  Ball  Park  to  watch  the  N.D.  baseball  '  
team  edge the U.S.D. Pioneers 2-0 in the first ap­ 
pearance  of  a  Notre  Dame  athletic  team  Jn  San  
Diego.  
—JERRY BRAINERD, Second Secy.  
South Jersey  
The  Notre  Dame  men  from  the  South  Jersey  
.Area held their Universal  Notre Dame Night  Cele­ 
bration  April  18, 1961 at  Kenny's Suburban  House  
In  Delaware  Township,  New  Jerscv,  REV.  
THOMAS O'DONNELL,  CS.C ,  was the principal  
speaker.  His  excellent  suggestion  to  the  group  to  
set  up  a  Great  Books  Discussion  Group  as  an  
adjunct  to the Club Is being explored by the  Ofii­ 
cers of the Club.  
At the meeting, elections were conducted to select  
Officers and Directors for the coming year. The re­ 
sults  found  JAMES  CARSON,  *56,  president;  
THOMAS  MARTIN,  '57,  \ice.prcsident;  and  
CHRISTOPHER  REFFZE, '56, Secretary-Treasurer.  
WILLIAM CARSON, '54, ALBERT JANNETT, '57,  
and  FRANCIS Mc.AD.AMS, '51. were named  direc­ 
tors.  Present  plans  are  to  continue  the  projects  
Initiated  by  Immediate  Past  President  TOM  
AUCHTER,  who  by  his  "Herculean  Efforts"  
brought  new  life  to  the  group.  Tom,  Incidentally  
has  recently  been  named  Director  of  Finance  and  
Treasurer  of  the  Delau-are  River  Port  Authority.  
—CHRISTOPHER C  REFTZE, III, Sec>-.-Treas.  
Utah  
Wc are pleased to announce that  the Utah  Notre  
Dame  .Alumni Club  has  met  for  the  first  time  in  
many  years.  Eighteen  alumni, students and  friends  ^  
of  Notre  Dame  had  dinner  together  on  .April  4,  
1961. In Salt Lake City.  
Tliose present have elected a new president of the  
Club,  DON  RONEV.  Don,  a  1958 graduate  from  
the  College  of  Commerce,  is  presently  associated  
with the Continental Agenc>' Company, an Insurance  
firm.  
Also elected was LEONARD DI GIACOMO to the  
position of Secretar>'-Tre3surer. Leonard was gradu­ 
ated  from  the College of Arts In  1957 and  is cur­ 
rently employed by the Continental Bank and Trust  
Company.  
Both of the new officers  reside in Salt Lake City.  
Presiding over the meeting was JACK W. GALLI­ 
VAN, '37. Mr. Galllvan, past-president of the Utah  
Alumni Club, held that position for many years.  
Mr. Phil Purcell, Jr., cliairman of the Notre Dame  
Foundation  of Utali, gave to those who attended a  0  
progress report of the national Notre Dame Founda­ ~  
tlon.  
—DON RONEY, Pres.  
Youngstown  
Tlie  Notre  Dame  Club  of  Youngstown.  O.. is  
hep  to  local  publicity  angles.  A  nearly  forgotten  
clipping from the Youngstown Vindicator told of the  
departure  of  President  THOMAS  KERRIGAN  and  
National  Alumni  Director  OLLIE  HUNTER  of  
New  Castle,  Pa.,  for  the  meeting  of  the  Alumni  
Board and the Notre Dame Club Presidents* Coun­ 
cil  at  the  Morris  Inn  on  campus  early  this  vear.  
The  article  told  about  talks  bv  FATHER  HES­ 
BURGH  and  JIM  ARMSTRONG  at  the  meetings  
and noted  that Youngstown Campus Club  President  
DENNIS  O'CONNOR  took  p«rt  In  one  of  the  ]  

sessions. Thus a meeting back in Indiana involving ^ ­local personalities was as well documented as the appearance of JOHN MacCAULEY, assistant direc­tor of the N.D. Foundation, at a Notre Dame Night meeting on April 6. 
Deaths 

ALUMNlBii 
LOUIS J. J. TANSEY, '02, a retired public accountant of South Bend. Ind.. died April 28, 1961. He is 5ur\'ivcd by his wife and a brother. 
LEO F. CILAIG, '07, of New Haven, Conn., died 

April 14, 1961, according to word received in the . Ahimni Office. Active in the Knights of Columbus, Mr. Craig was a former member of the Board of Directors and a past Grand Knight. He was direc­tor of the Order's Agency Department from 1942 
until his retirement in IdM. 

EDWARD J. GLYNN, '11. of Somers, Conn., died October 27, 1960, according to information received m the Alumni Office. 
ALFRED H. BERGMAN, '13, of Peru, Ind., died June 21, 1961. '"Dutch" Bergman, one of the first four-lettcrmen in Xolre Dame athletic history, had been a patient at the Irene Byron Hospital for 13 years prior to his death. While at Notre Dame, he won letters in football, baseball, track, and bas­ketball. He is sun-ived by a son. 
JOHN W. O'CONNELL, '13, of Geneva, III., died in IWJ, according to word just received from his dauehter. 
ALBERT J. KRANZ, '17, died July 3, 1961, while on a fishing trip. Mr. Kranz was an attorney, and with his brothers, operated the P. J. Kranz Itisurance Co., founded by his father. Surviving are his wife and two brothers. 
REV. WILLIAM S. STRAHAN, '17, of Lowell. Mich., died in January, 1961. 
FRANK R. LOCKARD, '19, president and gen­

eral manager of the Red Cab Co., in Toledo, Ohio, 
died April 27, 1961. While at Notre Dame, Mr. 
Lockard was a star quarterback on the team of 
1918-19. He is survived by his wife. 
EDWARD J. MEEHAN, SR., '20, died as the 

result of a heart attack April 25. 1961. Before his 
retirement in May, 1960. Mr. Meehan was man< 
ager of general advertising for The South Bend 
Tribune since 1929. While at Notre Dame, he was 
captain of the 1920 track team and winner of the 
Western Conference half-mile championship. He 
was also a member of the 1.600-meter relay team 
which won 6rst place for the United States in the 
inter-allied games in Pershing Stadium In Paris In 
1919. Sur\'ivors include his wife, two sons, three 
grandchildren and three sisters. 
DR. JAMES F. CLANCY, '21. of Hammond, 

Ind., died May 11. 1961. Dr. Clancy was staff 
president of St. Margaret's Hospital and had prac­
ticed medicine in Hammond for more than thirty 
years. He is 5ur\-ived by a daughter, five grand­
children and two sisters. 
LAWRENCE H. GOLDCAMP, '22, of Zancs­

vllle, Ohio, died May 8, 1961, according to word 
received in the Alumn! Office. Mr. Goldcamp was 
a former president of the Muskingum County Bar 
/Vssociatlon. He Is survived by his wife. 
PAUL V. MILES, '22. of St. Louis, Mo., died 

April 26. 1961, according to Information received 
in the Alumni Office. He Is sur\*ived by his wife. 
EARL WALSH, '22. former football coach at 

Fordham University, died June 21, 1961, in Cook 
County Hospital, Chicago. Mr. Walsh coached 
Frank Leahy at Winner, S. D. High School, and 
later recommended him to Notre Dame. He is 
surx'ivcd bv two brothers. 
THOMAS G. GREGORY, '23. president of the 

Elk County Bar Association and former chairman 
of the Elk County Democratic Party, died of a 
heart attack July 17, 1958. Survivors Include his 
wife, two sbters, and a brother. 
LEO J. McGARTY, '23. of South Gate. Calif., 

died May 3. 1961, according to information re­
ceived in the Alumni OfHce. 
LAWRENCE P, FRIEL, '25, of Pasadena, Calif., 

died December 10. 1959, according to information 
received from his wife. 
PETER J. MONAGHAN, '25. owner of .Acoustl­

con of Cedar Rapids for 22 years, died May 20. 
1961. Surviving are his wife, two daughters, and 
two brothers. 
DR. MICHAEL F. MALONEY. '26, of Milwau­

kee, Wise., died March 7. 1960, according to word 
received in the Alumni Office. His wife sur\ives. 
THOMAS J. MURPHY. '26. of Cambridge, 

Mass., died February 23, 1961. according to infor­
mation received in the Alumni Office. He is sur­
vived by Iiis wife. 
JOSEPH R. WAGNER, '26. died of a heart at­

tack July 7, 1961, in Los Angeles, Calif., accord­
ing to word received in the Alumni Office. 
MISS ROSE GILLESPIE, '28, a teacher in South Bend public schools for thirty-five years, died May 3, 1961. She retired from teaching in 1954. She is sur\-ived by a brother and three nieces. 
Engagements 

Miss Constance Ann Rulter and JAMES A. WALSH, '37. Miss Marguerite McGill and JOSEPH JORDAN WORTHINGTOS, '37. Miss Ann M. Cunningham and FRANK HAMIL­TON .MULLEN, '39. V Miss Marvlce Anne Zahner aud LT. HOWARD P. FOLEY, '60. Mbs Margaret Mar>- Molnar and GEORGE W. HEINEMAN, '60. Miss .Mari- Jo .McXelis and F. PATRICK McFADDEN, JR., '60. Miss Marilvn Elizabeth Caldwell aud LT. PHILIP SEBOLD, '60. 
Marriages 
Miss Frances Therese O'Connor and DR. FRANK HARDART, JR., '37, Waterford, X.Y.. -May 20. Miss Marjorie Anne Scatuorcliio and ELMER M. 
MATTHEWS, '47. Deal, N.J., June 3. 

Miss Cecilia Marie Van Goey and LEO J. SCHULTHEIS, '50, South Bend, Ind., June 10. Miss Luella Jean Scliierberl and WILLIAM C. 9 .MCLAUGHLIN, '3I, south Bend, Ind., June 10. Miss Barbara Lynn Washburn and CHARLES C. 
O'DONNELL, '31, Chicago, 111., Mav 27. Miss Linda Ida I'aini and WALTER J. TURNER, '31, Miami, Fla.. June 24. 
Miss Barbara Ann Luger and JOSEPH W. McMANUS, JR., '33, Minneapolis. Minn., June 10. Miss Cvnthia Stockton Trenbath and JOHN E. 

PORTA, '33. Miss Anne .Marie Shields and CHARLES E. STLM.MING, '33, Havertown. Pa., June 3. Miss Mart' Carol Cudgel and RICHARD C. WAGNER, '53, Snyder, N.Y., June 24. Miss Maria Lane Cox and BERNARD J. CON­NOR, JR., '54, Pclham, .\.Y., April 22. .Miss Helen Marion Dillon and PHILIP S. WALKER, '34, Clinton, Conn., June 24. Miss Priscilla Carol .Mueller and ED.MUND L. im WHITE, '34, Port Chester, N.Y'., July 13. Miss Doris Mary Moore and DANIEL C. KISZKA, '33, South Bend, Ind., June 10. Miss Anne Patricia Butler and DR. RICH.\RD J. LEWIS, '36, Chicago, 111., -Mav 19. Miss Erilca Ann Paul and J. DAVID SCHLAAK, '36, Haddonficld, N.J., April 13. Miss Eileen Ann Du Beau and JOHN R. SOWA, '36, Elizabeth, N.J., June 10. Miss ^lariannc Morgan and WILLIAM M. GARVEV, '37, Chicago, III., April 29. Miss .Mar>- Rita Coyle and ROBERT A. GIUNCO, '57, Bron.x. N.Y., Julv 8. Miss Eileen Julia Raidl and EDWARD J. GORDON, '38, Chicago, 111., July 15. Miss Victoria Zubcr and ROBERT MASS.M<\N, '58, Kansas City, Mo., April 13. Miss Ten Lvnn Peterson aud DONALD RONEY, '58, Salt Lake City, Utah. May 29. Miss Nanc%" Marie Priorr and ROBERT F. 
• SHANNON, '58, Bronx, N.Y., July 1. Miss Ursula Mar>- Denny and CHARLES F. BOATRIGHT, '39, Denver, Colo., June 17. Mbs Lois Jeanne Hipkins and GER.\LD T. BRODERICK, '59, Chatham, N.J., May 27. Miss Patricia Mary Coyne and JOSEPH J. COONEY, '39, Notre Dame. Ind., June 24. Miss Sandra Lee Gill and DONALD C. GILLIES, '59, Riverside, Conn., June 3. Miss Peggy Ann Aggas and JERRY D. O'BRIEN, '59, SpringBeld. Ohio. July 30. Miss Anne Marie Kantowicz and JAMES TERRY PLUNKETT, '59. Chicago. III., June 10. Miss Odilia G. Knuck and DONALD J. HEWITT, '60, Notre Dame, Ind., May 20. Miss Diane Omisbcy and STANLEY lACZ, '60, Patcison, N.J., Feb. 12. 
Miss Eileen F. McKenna and GEORGE J. _ MILTON, '60, .Manhasset, L.I., N.Y., May 6. W .Miss Nancy M. Grimes and WALTER J. RUDGE, 
'60, Notre Dame, Ind., June 24. Miss Carolyn Krol and THOMAS J. RUETZ, '60, South Bend, Ind., June 24. 
.Miss Beverly Ann Miller and LT. EDWARD F. BRADLEY, USAR, '61, South Bend, Ind., June 17. Miss Judith Anne Spinsky and CLARK B. DUNN, '61, South Bend, Ind., June 17. Miss Linda Ruth Ostroivski and ROBERT G. GANSER, '61, South Bend. Ind.. June 17. Miss Barbara Buntman and DAVID L. LER,M.\N, '61, South Bend. Ind.. June II. Miss Maurinc X. Bowlon and DANIEL P. MITCHELL, '61, Notre Dame. Ind., June 3. 
Births 
Mr. and -Mrs. PAUL NEVILLE, '42, a daughter June 19, 1961. Mr. and .Mrs. SP.AULDING SLEVIN, JR., '44, a son. May 29, 1961. Mr. and .Mrs. GERALD J. DOWLING, '48. twin daughters, Anne and Camilla. January 28, 1961. 
.Mr. and -Mrs. WILLIAM D. SUTHERLAND, '49. a daughter, Catherine Haves. March 12. 19G1. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN DORAN, '31, a son, May 
21, 1961. .Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. JOYCE, "51, a daughter, Elizabeth Jean. June 8, 1961. -Mr. and .Mrs. JOHN E. ARMSTRONG, '32, a son, Kent. Mav 2, 1961. Mr, and Mrs. JOHN P. MORAN, '32, a daugh­ter, Karen Patrice, April 22. 1961. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS A. BRAND, '33, a daughter, Claire La Vetra, June 13, 1961. Mr. and Mrs, T. N. PATTON, JR., '55, a son, Timothy Patrick. November 19, 1960. Dr. and Mrs. STEPHEN J. PREVOZNIK, '33, a son, Michael Edward. Mav 18. 1961. 
Mr. and .Mrs. JOSEPH L. SHILTS, '33, a daughter, June 13. 1961. Mr. and -Mrs. LEONARD F. KORGIE, '36, a daughter. May 28, 195t. 
Mr, and .Mrs. JOHN BARANY, '57, a daughter, April 16, 1961. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES B. HENEGHAN, '57. a son. James Phillip. June 17. 1961, ,Mr. and Mrs. WILL DE &\MILHS, '39. a son, .Michael, June 5, 1961. Lt. and Mrs. JOHN V. THILMAN, a son. April 24, 1961. 
Sympathy 
FRANK X. CULL, '08, on the death of his wife, June 25, WALTER D. HALL, '25. on the death of his father. April 19. ELTON E. RICHTER, '26, on the death of his wife, June I. CHARLES A. SCHUESSLER, '28, on the death of his mother. June 9. PHILIP, '33. LEWIS, '37, and PAUL E. PUR­CELL, on the death of their father. 
REV. JOHN H. WILSON, CS.C, '32 and ED­WARD T. WILSON, '37, on the death of their mother, Mav 13. 
REV. FRED A. SCHMIDT, CS.C , '33, on the death of his father. RICHARD F. SULLIVAN, '36, on the death of his wife, 
F. JOSEPH DROLL,\, '38, on the death of his mother. 
FRANCIS, JR., '39, REV, JOHN T., '40, MATHEW, '41, and FREDERICK PAYNE, '42, on the death of their father, 
RABBI ALBERT A, PLOTKIN, '42, on the death of his father, June 20, JOHN L. CONSIDINE, JR., '43, on the death of his father, Mav 28. FRED S. NAEGELE, JR., '48, on the death of his father, June 21. FRANCIS BELSITO, '31. on the death of his fa­ther, June 11. JOSEPH P. .McATEER, JR., '51, on the death of his father, June 11, RALPH M. RICHARD, '52, on the death of his mother, April 28, DONALD J. REYNOLDS, '53, on the death of his father. May 6, 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 41 
JOHN N. NESTER, *28, an attorney in the In­surance Adjusting Business, died May 29, 1961, Mr. Ncster was associated wjth the General Adjustment Bureau and formerly with the U. S. Department of Labor. He is sun-ivcd by a brother and several nieces and nephews. 
CHARLES W. HEIXEMAN, '29, of Conners\iIIe, Ind., died April 29, 1961, according to informa­tion received in tlic- Alumni Office. His wife sur­vives. 
DANIEL J. EGAN, '31, of Chicago, III., died May 26, I9G1, according to word received in the Alumni Office. He is survived by his wife. 
LOUIS O. STAELENS, '33, \ice president of finance at Willys Motors, di(.-d April 5, 1961. He liad formerly been associated with the Chevrolet div*ision of General Motors as supervisor of factors-accounts and then with the Kaiser'Frazer Co. cost accounting department. He is sur\-ived by his wife, a daughter, four sons, two sisters and a grand­cliild. 
REV. JOHN H. MURPHY, C.S.C., '35, cliap­lain at St. Joseph's Hospital in South Bend, Ind., died May 18, 1961. At the time of his deatli. Father ilurphy was secretary to the ProWncial Council of the Holy Crtws Fathers* Indiana Prov­ince and was a former \-ice-president of the Univer­sity, and chairman of its Faculty Board in Control of Athletics. He also held the post of x'ice-prcsJ­dent for public relations and was superior of Morcau Seminarj*. Father Murphy is survived by his mother. 
HAROLD J. HAUSER, '36, of Coblcskill, N. Y., died May 28, 1961, according to word received in the Alumni Office. 
FRANCIS F. EGAN, '37, of Pittston, Pa., died February 28, 1960, according to information re­ceived in the Alumni Office. 
LOUIS M. JANKOWSKI. '39, of South Bend, Indiana, died ^^ay 13, 1961, less than 12 hours after his retirement from the Police Department of which he >vas a veteran of twenty years. He is sur\ived by his wife, a son, his mother, three brothers, and a sister. 
REV. CORNELIUS P. BERGAX, '40, assistant pastor at St. Bridget's Churdi in Hobart, Ind., died May 30, 1961. Father Bergan is surxived by three brothers, tliree sisters, two uncles, and an aunt. 
ALFRED J. CALLAX, JR., '40, an attomo" in Seattle, Wash., died May 28, 1961, according to information received in the Alumni Office. His wife survives. 
EUSEBIO S. AZPIAZU, JR., '41, of Key Bis­cayne, Fla., died November 7, 1960, according to information received from his wife At the lime of his death he was associated with the General Tire Co, of ^liaml. He is also sur^'ived by a son and daughter. 
EUGENE P. TOOL.AN. '41, of River Forest, III., died January 25, 1958, according to informa­tion received from his wife. He is also sur\-ivcd by two sons. 
WILLIAM L. KRAPF, '44, of Mamaroneck, 

N. Y., died in July, 1961, according to word re­ceived in the Alumni Office. 
REV. MICHAEL J. O'CONNOR, M.NL, '46, died June 2, 1961, in Formosa. Father O'Connor was called to China in 1949 by the Nationalists to teacrh English but was denied admission by the Reds. He had been working in Tiencliung at the Catholic mission with the refugees and %^*as pastor there. 
LEO J. CORBO. '51, of Elttabeth, N. J., died Alarch 7, 1959, according to information received in_ the Alumni Office. 
DAVID E. MEAGHER, '54, of St. Cloud, .Minn., died in an airplane crash June 7, 1961. He is snr-Wved by his wife and a sister. 
CARL A. ROHLOFF, '56, of Grand Rapids, Mich., first lieutenant in the U. S. Marine Corps, died in the Bethcsda Na^'al Hospital, Bethcsda, Md., after a four-month illness. May 5, 1961. He is sunivcd by his ividow, a son, a daughter, his parents, two brothers and a sister. 
LT. J.\M£S ARSENEAULT, JR., '59, of Wor­cester, Mass., died in a plane crash in the. South China Sea while on a flight from llic aircraft carrier, Kearsargc, May 7, 1961. He is sur\-ived by his parents and two sisters. 
MICHAEL K. JOYCE, '59, of Peoria, III., died in an automobile acddent on April 15, 1961. He is sur\"ived by his parents. 
REV. JOHN J. O'ROURKE, the oldest priest In the Holy Cross Fathers' Indiana Province 'and the second ranking priest in years of membership in the community, died May 3, 1961, in Holy Cross Hospital, Austin, Texas, where he had been ser\ing as chaplain. He had also served as pastor of St. Joseph's Church in South Bend. 
Y\'ES R. SIMON, professor of philosophy at the University of Chicago, died May 11, 1961. Mr. Simon had previously taught Metaphysics and ethics at Notre Dame. Sur\-iving arc his widow, a daughter, and 6ve sons. 
50-Year Club 

The following note came from CHARLES E. 
RUFFING, Commerce '86, of 125 North Street, 
Bellcvuc, Ohio, a Diamond Jubilee alumnus invited 
to the 1961 Reunions. 
"I received with interest your letter of March 15, 1961, telling about the annual class reunions on June 9, 10, and 11. It hardly seems possible that it has been seventy-five years since I received my diploma in Commerce from the University of Notre Dame. And yet as 1 think back a good many cliangcs liave occurred and many things have happened. 
" I do wish to thank you for the ver\* kind invita­tion to be the guest of the university and the .Alumni Association at the Alumni Banquet on Saturday eve­ning, June 10. I am 5orr\* that I shall not be able to come. I do not feci that I can make this trip. I am relatively \*ell, but I have not felt strong enough for the past couple of years to travel. 
**1 want to express my appreciation and that of my family to you for offering to make rescr\'ations at the Morris Inn for me and any member of my family who might have come with me. I do regret not being able to accept. 
"Even though I shall not be with you for the big celebration, I want you to know that my interest in Notre Dame has not diminished with the years. My best wishes to all at Notre Dame go with this letter." 
.\mong those who could make the festintics were perennials BILL JAMIESON and HAS O'CONNOR from Chicago and the Class of '05; retired baseball czar "SHAG" SHAUGHNESSY '06, down from Canada (JIM ARMSTRONG recalled that Frank had to pull an International League franchise out of Ha\-ana since "he knew how to deal with the fast ball, slow ball, cur%*e ball, but not the Cuban screwball"); AL MERTES, '09, all the WT from Wilmington, Del., patiently remonstrating the regis­tration workers who insisted on spelling his name wrong; and hardy Ohioan CLAUDE SORG, '10. 
We are sad to announce the death of FATHER JOHN O'ROURKE, CS.a , at the age of 91 in .Austin, Tex.; LOUIS J. J. TANSEY, '02, of South Bend; and LEO F. CRAIG, '07, New Haven. Conn. 
HON. FRANK J. LONERGAN, *04, (left) circuit court judge in Portland, Ore., receives N.C.C.J. certificate of recognition from Judge Alfred Sulmonetti at June Brotherhood Week ceremonies in Portland*s Multnomah Hotel, Judge Lonergan was honored as one of organization's founders under President Franklin Roosevelt. 
Mr. Tansey, a retired accountant, leaves his mfe f^ 
(721 Pennsylvania Ave., South Bend) and a brother. 
Mr. Cnug was a prominent member of the Knights 
of Columbus, past Grand Knight, Master of the 
Fourth Degree, and a member of the national 
Board of Directors until his retirement in 1954. 
1905 

REUNION REGISTRANTS WILLUAf JAMIESON, DAN O'CONNOR. 
1906 
REUNION REGISTRANT 
FRANK SHAUGHNESSY. 
1909 
REUNION REGISTR,VNT AL .MERTES 
1910 
REUNION REGISTR,\XT CL^VUDE SORG. 
1911 
Fred L. Steers 19 S. LaSallc St. Chicago 3, Illinois 

REUNION REGISTRANTS JOHN J. BRISLIN, EDU^\Rt) K. DEL.\NA, ED­WARD L. FIGEL, ELMO A. FUNK, FR^VNCIS 
E. HACKETT, A. R. HEBENSTREIT, JAMES 
L. HOPE, JAMES G. KRAMER, J.ASPER H. 
LA^\TON, R. OTTO PROBST, FRED L. STEERS. 

From the Alumni Office: 
Tlie state of the Class of '11 can easily be de­termined by a glance at pictures, elsewhere in this issue, of the healthiest and happiest-looking Golden Jubilee turn-out in many a year. Tlie 50-year Class held its own among the 35-, 40-, and 45-year dele­gations in the joint Class Dinner, as you can see, with help from a fc\*' ringers smuggled in from earlier Classes. \\'e hope FRED STEERS gets no ( rebuttals from other new Semiccntenarians after filing the following brief: "On behalf of the Class of 1911 I wish to thank the University and all those w*ho had a part in making our fiftieth an enjoyable affair. Those who attended expressed great pleasure for the privilege of the association with their class­mates." 
Word has come through a postal tracer on the death of EDWARD J. GLYNN, Somers, Conn., last fall. Pray for him. 
1912 
B. J. "Ben" Kaiser 604 East Tenth St. Berwick, Pa. 

From the Alumni OfHce: A 
Now's the time to start writing your classmates, reminding them that the fiftieth anniversar>* o{ the Class of *12 is only a few months away. While you're at it, slip a note to BEN K/\ISER at the address above, advising him of your and your friends* in­tentions and filling him in on personal events of these many years. FATHER BERNIE LANGE . should soon begin training the local contingent in his campus g>*m. 
1913 
Paul R. Byrne 360 Warner Ave. Syracuse 5, N. Y. 
REUNION REGISTRANT­JAMES W. O'HARA. ^ 

From llic Alumni Office: 
Regretfully "c note the passing of ALFRED H. BERGMAN on June 21 in Peru, Indiana, after 18 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September^ 1961 
9 years as a patient in Irene Byron Hospital there. The original "Dutch'* Bergman, sometimes referred to as "Big Dutch" or "Old Dutch" to distinguish him from his brother Arthur or "Young Dutch" (Class of '17, fonncr Washington Redskins coach and long-time manager of Washington's Touchdown Club) and "Little Dutcli" (Class of '23), Mr . Bergman was one of the fint and most distinguished four-letter dinners in Notre Dame athletic history', >%-ith letters in football (as a teammate of KNUTE ROCKNE and GUS DORAIS), baseball, track, and baskcdjalt. Sur\*tved by a son, he was 71 years old. He paid a visit to 4he campus at the Punluc game last fall after a long absence. 
1914 
Walter Clements 
A 623 Park Avenue South Bend, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTRANT 
W. POYNTELLE DOWNING. 
TAVOMEY CLIFFORD, \vho for many years has been in a high legal position with a national cor­poration (assistant general counsel. International Paper Corp., Camden, Ark.), has retired and taken up the ancient American pastime of golf. In the meantime Twomcy has sufTered a few effects of his long hard scrx-icc from which he is recovering nicely. 
The widow of our late beloved Secretary RON O'NEILL is now living in Wilson's Point, Non\'alk, Conn., wiih her daughter Shirley O'XeiU Kalander. Her son-in-law, William Kalander, is also recently deceased. 
P EMMETT \VALTER, our Texas newspaperman now in 5cmi-r«iremcnt, deUvcrcd the principal ad­dress at a late April Holy Name Convention in Amarillo, Tex. An archbishop and six bishops were in attendance. 
(Ed. Note: The successor to RON O'NEILL and contributor of this column lor the past two years, WALTER L. CLEMENTS, has successfully divided his time between law and journalism for more than 45 years. Both vocations seem to have inspired his sons. WALTER C. CLEMENTS, '51, is a talented writer with an LL.B. from the University of Chi­cago, now practicing law in Louisville in his fa­ther's home state of Kentucky. WILLIAM A. CLEMENTS, '55, has gone into journalism after a few years in social work, is now associated ^viili the Pharos-Tribune in Logansport, Ind. J.L.) 
1915 
Janies E. Sanford 1429W.FarragutAv. Chicago 40, Illinois 
ALBERT A. KUHLE of LaGrangc, III., is a very modest man from whom I had to solicit the fol­lowing note: "In line witli your suggestion, I am si\ing you some information about a Superior Ser\'­icc Award which was presented to me in Washing­ton, D.C., by Abraham A. RibicofT, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, in the Department's Auditorium on April 11, 1961. Tlic citation reads as follows: *For devoted ser\'icc, skillful leadership, and complete dedication to the philosophy and principles of the O.ASDI program resulting in ex­emplar)' program administration in his region.' As you know, I am regional representative of the Bu­reau of 01d-.*\ge and Survivors Insurance, Region V (Illinois, Indiana, Ulsponsin) with headquarters in Chicago, 111. As I told you, this honor came to me as a complete surprise and you may be sure is deeply appreciated. 
GEORGE SHUSTER's Universal Notre Dame Night talk was well received by the N.D. Club of Chicago, and the attendance was, I believe, con­sidered very good. JOE SULLIVAN, '02, was a very happy man at being specially honored by the Club for serv*icc as a former president and reor­ganizer. 
MARCH WELLS wrote and expressed his regrets for missing the Universal N-D. Night dinner in Chicago. A temporary set-back in health was re­sponsible, but Morcli is recovering nicely. 
JOSEPH MORRISSEY, '29, braved a rainy spring day to observe the Civil War Centennial with a \*isit to the Father Corby monument at Gettysburg. 
A note sent to President JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY (before the announcement of the 1961 Laetarc Medal), reminding him that his grandfather had been honored at the 1915 Commencement by the University, finally elicited this reply from his personal secretary-: "Tliank you very much for your letter to the President. It was certainly thoughtful of you to send him a copy of President (BYRON) K/\XALEY's remarks concerning his grandfather so many years ago, and he has asked mc to express his appreciation. ... " 
1916 
Grover F. Miller 612 Wisconsin Ave. Racine, ^Visconsin 
REUNION REGISTR^VNTS JACOB ECKEL, JOSEPH P. FLYNN, TIMOTHY 
P. GAL\'LN', REV. HENRY GLUECKERT, C.S.C.. WILLIA.M GRADY, R^VYMOND .M. HUMPHREYS, LOUIS KEIFER, C, I. KR.\JEW­SKI, PATRICK MALONEY, WALTER P. M c COURT, SR., GROVER F. MILLER, REV. 
VINCENT MOONEY, EDWARD C. RYAN. 
Here is some information regarding the Class of 1916 gleaned from our reunion on June 9: 
FATHER VINCENT MOONEY has a large parish in Columbus, Ohio. WALTER McCOURT is in the blacktop paving business in Akron, Ohio. JAKE ECKEL is retired in Cozenovia, New York. 
PAT ALVLONEY runs a guarantee abstract com­pany Jn Crown Point, Indiana. His son. Father Pat, stationed at N.D., said the Alumni Mass. TIM GALVIN practices law with his son in Hammond, Indiana; DR. ED RYAN continues his medical prac­tice in Chicago. 
STUB FLYNN is an architect in Rochester, New-York. aVSLMIR KR*\JEWSKI is an architect in Chicago. RAY HUMPHREYS is retired in Little­ton, Colorado. 
REV? HENRY GLUECKERT, C.S.C., is sta­tioned at Notre Dame. LOU KEIFER runs the Tribune-Star at Terrc Haute, Indiana. GROVER ^ULLER is in the insurance business in Racine, Wis. 
From the Alumni Office: JIM SANFORD, Secretary of the Class of '15, was among those who expressed regret that a slowed* down scliedulc forced absence at the reunion of the near-and-dear Class of '16­
1917 
Edward J. McOskcr 525 N. Melrose Ave. Elgin, niinois 
REUNION REGISTRANT BERNARD J. VOLL. 
From the Alumni Office:: 
DR. D. M. NIGRO continues to preside over Kansas City's far-flung Rockne Club and Its scin­tillating annual Rockne Testimonial Dinner, held this March to mark the thirtieth anniversary of Rock's death. Among top athletes, Mrriten, coaches, executives, etc (like Navy's Joe Bcllino, comedian Joe E. Brown, Olympian Rafer Johnson, ikiinnesota's Murray Warmaih), Notre Dame's DAVE CONDON, PAUL HORNUNG, and BUCK SHAW were hon­ored as sportswTiter, pro football back, and pro foot­ball coach of the year, respectively. 
Even with recent intelligence from Grand Rapids, Mich., on the illness of REV. W. SPEER STRAHAN in nearby Lo^%'eII, Mich., it was a shock to read in the Religious Bulletin about Father Strahan's death back in January. Many Notre Dame classes recall Father Strahan's bright and witty comments on poets, essayists and assorted literary lions in classes on English literature before his retirement from the faculty. Pray for his eternal repose. 
BERNARD J. VOLL, president of Sibley Ma­chine and Foundry Corp. in South Bend, «\-a5 elected in .-Vpril to the board of directors of Associates In­vestment Corp. Bernie has been president and a director of Sibly since graduation in 1920 from the Har\-ard Law School. He's been a director of South Bend's First Bank since 1935 and of the Chicago & South Shore Railroad since 1939. 
1918 
Charles W. Call 225 Paterson Ave. Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey 
Ye secretary has returned from a three months tour of Europe which covered eight different coun­tries. Catholicity flourishes in Bav'aria. The in­tense piety of the people as reflected in the Corpus Chrtsti Feast u'as most inspiring. 
NEIL J. WTLALEN, M.D., long located in De­troit, >vhosc ancestors arc Irish, is visiting the Emerald Island, with a few sidetnps planned into England. 
1919 
Thco. C RademaLcr Peru Foundry Co. Peru, Indiana 
FRANK R. LOCKARD, Toledo, Ohio, president 
and general manager of the Red Cab Company and 
former N.D. backfield man, died on April 27. 

Frank, a Toledo businessman for nearly 40 years, was a quarterback on the football teams of 1918 and 1919, a teammate of GEORGE GIPP, HUNK AN­DERSON, CURLEY LAMBEAU, SLIP MADlGAN and many other brilliant gridiron stars of the day. 
Bom and reared in Toledo, Frank was the son of Mr. and ^frs. Robert Lockord who pioneered the tx\t business in Toledo. The business which is now the Red Cob Company was established by lus father and mother in 1901. It was then a horse, bugg>' and carri^e business, and was converted to the taxi field beginning about 1910. 
Mr. Lockord is survived by his \vidow HalUe B. The family home is at 5105 Grelyn Road, Toledo. 
Mr. t<ockard ser%'ed in the VS. Navy in World War I and was a member of Vernon McCime Post of the American Legion. He was also a member of the Monogram Club, Knights of Columbus, Elks, Lions, Eagles, Moose, Inverness, Toledo Club and tlie Toledo Area Chamber of Commerce. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ August'Septemberj 2962 43 
1920 
James H. Ryan 170 Maybrook Rd. Rochester 18, N. Y. 
From the Alumni Office: Tlie note last issue on the late beloved EDWARD 
J. MEEHAN neglected lo detail some of his proudest accomplishments: Ed u-as winner of the Western Conference half-mile cltampionship and set a University record as captain of the 1920 track team. He was also a member of the I.GOO-metcr relay team whicli won first place for the U.S. in the intcr-allied games In Pcnhing Stadium, Paris, in 1919. .After graduation he ran for the Illinois Atlilctic Club in Chicago for a year. And during 
W.W. I he sencd in France as a lieutenant in the 137th field artillcr>-. 
LEO WARD hasn't been feeling his best In Los Angeles lately and would probably appreciate a note, particularly from his law classmates. 
I 1921 
Dan ^\^ Duffy 1101 Superior Bldg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 

REUNION REGISTRANTS ALFRED R. ABRAMS, WILLIA.M S. ALLEN, JOSEPH BRANDY, BERNARD R. OVRNEY, CHARLES F. DAVIS. DAN W. DUFFY, WIL­LU M FITZGERALD, IRVING HALLETT, JAMES H, HUXFORD, LEO D. KELLEY, CHARLES J. KING, RICHARD H. McCOR-MICK, HARRY J. McLELLAN, KARL PFEIF­FER, RAYMOND SCHUBMEHL, ARTHUR E. SHERIDAN, WILLIAM J. SHERRY, J. L. TILL­MAN, WILLU.M WHITE, GEORGE C. WIT­TERIED, MARK E. ZI.MMERER. 
From the .\Iumni Office: 

If DAN DUFFY doesn't have a detailed account of reunion proceedings this issue, classmates who at­tended the June festi\'ities will understand that the Judge was participating too heartily to take down a lot of observations. He had to back up JOE BRANDY and the other worthies named above In the assertion (for the benefit of the infants from '56 and be)-ond across the Court in Dillon Hall) that the football flashes of today are not worthy to strap on the helmeu of the late DAVE HAYES and the Bergman boys. RAY SCHUBMEHL, known locally as assistant dean of Engineering, did a yeoman job as cliief engineer of refreshments. He must have used the entire chemical engineering department to concoct some of the beverages introduced in Alumni and Dillon Halls. FRANK (RANGY) MILES was among the local gentr>' from nearby classes who dropped in to pay respects to their betters. 
Tlie gaiety of the week end **-a5 marred somewhat by knowledge of the recent death of DR. JAMES CLANCY, president of the staff of St. Margaret's Hospital, Hammond, Ind. Dr. Jim was a highly respected pediatrician and a fondly remembered classmate. Deep sympathy to his daughter, his sisters, and his grandchildren. He was remembered in Masses on campus June 3, 10, and H. 
1922 
G. A. "Kid" Ashe 175 Landing Rd. No. Rochester 25, N. Y. 

classmates: GERALD BARRETT, AARON HUG­UENARD and HAROLD McKEE. Now, we rrgrel­fully announce the names of three more of our number called by God to join with the aforemen­tioned men and others who prececdcd them: L.-\WRENCE GOLDCAMP on May 8, at Zancsville, Ohio; LEO J. McGARTY, May 3, at South Gate, Clalifomia; and PAUL MILES, April 26, at St. Louis, Missouri. We beg Masses and prayers for our most recent departures, also prayers and sympathy for families of the deceased. Chairman M.ATT WEIS will gladly liandlc any special requests from our classmates. For ready reference. Matt's address is: 7379 Xorthmoor Drive, St. Louis 5, Missouri. 
Richard Byrne, son of our beloved EDWIN J. BYRNE (of happy memory) and Mrs. Ilene Byrne of Natchez. ^lississippi. and Lafayette, Louisiana, was graduated May 21 from the University of Xorlliwestem Louisiana. Mrs. Bynie attended sum­mer sessions at Indiana University and received a degree on August 20. Ricliard entered the Air Force following his graduation. 
Miss Mar^- Ann Folcj-, daughter of CHARLES B. FOLEY (deceased) and Mrs. Gertrude Fol€r\' of Portland. Oregon, was married June 10 lo David Scheuring of Illinois in St. Mar>' Magdalene Church in the home city of the bride. Tlie newlyweds arc presently affiliated with the University of California in Berkeley, California: David is finishing his Ph.D. and Ann is a teaching assistant for freshmen in the English department and hopes someday to add a Ph.D. to her Masters degree. Best of wishes to the Da\-id Sclicurings. Tliey live at 1419 Spruce Street. Berkele\* 4, California. 
AL CARROLL of Rockford, Illinois, was on the 

X.D. campus ver>' early in the year attending the club presidents* meeting. Hi; reports a delightful visit with two of our classmates: DAN J. CONNELL of Holyoke. Massachusetts, and JOE STEWART of Kansas City, who attended the same sessions. Also. Al had the pleasure of a visit with the A. HAROLD WEBERS in South Bend, and a luncheon gabfest with TOM McCABE in De Kalb, Illinois. 
Your secretarx- met one of his classmates in Jack­somille, Florida, last April for the ver>' first meeting since wc were graduated 39 years ago. FRITZ BAUMER is the Floridian who crossed the bow of the scribe in the lobby of the Hotel Roosevelt and convoyed him to a meeting of N.D. folk. It was a real treat to see Fritz again and to meet his wife. Marge, also to have a subsequent visit with the Baumcrs in their home. Fritz is a firm member of Steward Mellon Co. of Jacksonville, whom, I believe, are construction engineers dealing in facing and flooring materials. 
Tliere is great rejoicing in the E. BRADLEY BAILEY home in Jenkintown. Pennsyl\*ania, over the ordination of their son (No. 6), Flavian, to Holy Priesthood in the Order of the Missionary' Ser\-ants of the Most Holy Trinity at Winchester, Virginia, on May 23. Father Bailey's first solemn Mass was in his home city of Jenkintown, May 28. ^ ' Wc do heartily congratulate Father Bailey and his wonderful parents — Joan and Ed and all in the Baile>' family. 
First call for our .40lh reunion in June 1962. It is not too soon to. start planning to attend that re­union, and to start persuading your classmates to meet you there. Already suggestions are being re­ceived. DAN YOUNG suggests %ve have a Mass at high noon on the Saturday of our campus visit for all deceased and li\*ing classmates and the members of their families. Address your own suggestions to our highly esteemed class president. J. R/VLPH CORYN, 2545 13th Street, Molinc, Illinois, or to the class secretary-. We may even have a travel lecture by our globetrotting barrister, JAMES VINCENT JONES, who threatens to attend! 
From the Alumni Office: FRANK BLOEMER has been in touch from C\ Louisrille, Ky., having heard FATHER HES­BURGH at the Kentucky Club's N.D. Night and reported on local prep school contacts. A picture in this issue shows the handsome and practical rig Frank and wife Marie are using for a trip through the Pacific Northwest this summer. Congratulations to E. J. HILKERT of Phoenix, Ariz., retiring as dean of the College of Business Administration at Arizona State University, for all the honors bestowed on him by A.S.U. organizations for his more than thirty years on the faculty, like the testimonial banquet from the Arizona State diaptcr of Delta Sigma Pi, honorary business fra­ternity, founded by Jack. 
1923 
Louis V. Bruggner 2165 Riverside Dr. Sauth Bend, Indiana 

Commencement visitors from the '23 Class in­cluded WILLIAM T. FITZGERALD, uliosc daugh­ters arc attending St. Marv's; J.ACK NORTON, ED GOULD, FRANCIS WALLACE, and DR. KEVIN CURRAN. 
DICK NASH was conspicuous hy his absence at ^ Commencement. A perennial visitor at this week end, " Dick was prevented from attending because of 5Urgcr>". As yet this corner has no direct knowledge 
ERIE—^At Univcisal N.D. Night banquet  in Erie's 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

Beachcomber Hotel, displaying plaque awarded to Man of the Year George Mead 
JAMES FOREN, R. J. KEARNS. 

(not shown), are (l.-r.) Hugh Devote, guest speaker from the University; For the June issue of the Alumnus, it was our Rev. Joseph Hipp, St. Andrew's Church; John J. sad duty to report the .deaths of three beloved McCormick, Jr., retiring president; aiul Raymond W. L^Ier, president. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 
ROME—Secretary General Vince McAloon, '34, (far left) hosts Mr. and Mrs. Donald O'Toole, '31, of Chicago, and daughter 
Nancy (St. Mary's '60) on a visit to the N.D. Club of the Eternal City. At right, Notre Darners of the K. of C. Supreme 
Board dine at the Scoglio: (clockwise from left) Rome Veep Chris Cochrane, Frank Sullivan, Father James Sullivan, Mrs. 
Clarence Malone, Charles Ducey, Clarence Malone, Mrs. Ducey, Judge Laniboley, Secretary McAloon, Father Daniel Curtin, Mrs. 
Laniboley, Conroy Soggins, Mrs. John Rocap, George Keenan, Mrs. Cochrane, John Rocap, Mrs. Frank Sullivan, and George Keenen IIL 
of liis ailment or progress. DR. CURRAN' was pres­inception In 1936. retired in the spring for reasons While in New York I learned that my own ent for the graduation of his nephew* and namesake, of health. After an extensive career in the nev%-s-daughter. Sister Moira Patice of the MaryknoU KEVIN CURRAN, '61, who will enroll for medical paper world, Vin was appointed to the p.r. post by order, got her new assignment for this fall. She school in the fall. Uncle Kevin left Commencement John L. Lewis In the dramatic formative year of will go to Bolivia, South America, where she will Sunday evening by plane for a lengthy \'acation in the C.I.O. After student davs. when the Bureau of learn the langu^e and spend the next ten years Mexico, headquartering In Mexico City. National AfTalrs' TO.M COM.VN ('25) recalls he In the Bolivia-Peru area. God willing, Mrs. Hur­Deaths crowd into our company and arc being %vorked for FATHER JULIUS NIEUWLAND, Vin ley and I v%ill make a trip down there In the 
A reported to *23 classmates by direct mail. However, joined the Donora (Pa.) Herald, was managing future and you will be hearing from the few '25ers lest any be overlooked, and in order to acquaint editor of the Brownsville (Pa.) Telegraph, and later In that part of the world. men of other classes we report the following deaths: joined International News Serx'ice as manager of 
Here is a quick rundown of some of our class-THOM^VS G. GREGORY on July 17, 1958 (only re­the Philadelphia bureau. He worked with I.N.S. 

males. JOHN R. DROEGE, 60150 Ironwood Rd., 
cently reported); D. EDWARD CHAPLIN on Sep­as Harrlsburg correspondent, state director In Flor­South Bend, Ind., Is semi-retired to hts farm, tember 7, 1960 (also belatedtv heard-ot); NEIL W. ida, and editor In Ne^v York, then wrote and later spending his winters in Florida. JOHN D. 
"SPIKE" FLINN on March 6. 1961 of a heart became Sunday editor of the Pittsburgh Press. When MAHOX, 2001 Pleasantdalc, Cleveland, Ohio, is attack in Dulutli; and LEO J. McGARTY on May C.I.O. began to organize the steel Industry, Vin with the B. & O. R. R. CH.AS. J. CASEY, 820 
3, 1961. was selected by the leaders to head public relations North Jefferson. Mason City. Iowa. Is in public Last heard from in a letter written in March, and edit the paper Steel Labor. He has continued relations and advertising. LEO J. BOETTINGER, 1958, JUAN PEDRO SCARON, of Montevideo. in the job for a quarter-century, a central figure In 1105 Salina St., Watertown, N.Y., Is a project Uruguay, is now on our M.R.U. list (mail returned American labor's greatest years of organizing, nego­engineer In that area. JOHN V. BIANCHI, unclaimed). Any Notre Dame men reading this tiating and bargaining, not only In steel but many 166 Garside St., Newark, N. J, b a pharmacist at neu's-bit arc asked to forward to tht: Alumni OfHce, other moss production industries. Author of '"The .Martland Centre Hospital. RAYMOND SHERIFF the present address of our Jtian. First Ten Years" and "Twenty Years Later," con­b on the faculty of Loyola University since gradua­
sidered the definitive histories of the U.S.W.A., Vin 
Mf\X BROWN, Broadway theatrical angel, was in tion. He b the dean of the Scliool of Business 

lives with his family at 1221 Biltmore Ave., Pitts­
town briefly in May for the funeral of his brother Adminbtration there since 1948 and one of the few-burgh 16. 

and business associate, Samuel. 

bachelors of our class. EMIL de JULIO, 1118 TOM PLOUFF, JR., at last report has been Southview Dr., Indianapolis. Indiana, b field repre­
• stepping up his business travels to Mexico, South sentative of the Troy Oil Co. In the Indiana America, Hawaii and Europe as representative of 1925 Capital. ALFRED LOD.A, 8600 Garfield St., Be-Ansul Chemical International. 
thesda, Mar>iand, b with the FDIC working for 
Only two years to June, 1963. God willing, wilt John P. Hurley Uncle Sam. JOE FITZPATRICK b a V.I.P. In be with me In '63? 2085 Brookdalc Rord the Florida National Bank & Trust Co. In Miami, Toledo 6, Ohio 
Fla. FRANCIS "BUGS" WALTHER has that From the Alumni Office: wonderful orchestra in the big city of New York A salute to Federal Judge ROGER J. KILEY, Tlie big news for all is our post-gome cocktail with hb office at 18 West 16th St. named by President JOHN KENNEDY (LL.D. '50) party which will be held after the Notre Dame-
DON T FORGET THE POST FOOTB.ALL 

to the United States Court of Appeals for the Sev­Northweslem game on October 28th. This seemed COCKTAIL PARTY, NORTHWESTERN GAME, enth Circuit and quickly conflrmed by Congress. to be the best weekend to get the most back and OCTOBER 28 and don't forget H.ANK \VURZER, Roger had been judge of the Cook County Superior to get a nice spot where we can get together on Blackhawk Hotels Inc., Davenport, Iowa, on the Court and was named to fill the vacancy caused by the campus. All you fellows from the Chicago Mass Fund. 
the death by drowning of Judge W. Lynn Parkin­and Midwest area should be Interested In this game. 
son of Lafayette, Ind., whose disappearance was a We arc Inviting the classes of '23, '24 and '26 to From the Alumni Office: national headline a feu* years ago. (Advice to the join us. This should give us a real reunion with 
successor: *'Hang your clothes on a hickory- limb, our friends who were at Notre Dame in our day. 
AVhile JOHN HURLEY takes a sabbatical and HANK WURZER urges one-man committee JIM 
but don't go near the water.") No classmate or Order your tickets and be there! Tickets should 
Rockne-cra alumnus needs to be told that Rog^ was be available when you read this even though this ARMSTRONG to get hot on the fall football re­union, the big news Is a U.S. Marshal. No, "Gun­an fVll-American end, one of Rock's assistants and Is being written in July. Footballs will be flying 
football coach at Loyola. He was also an alderman in the air when this gets to press, so move fast! 
smoke" fans, it's not Matt Dillon but ADAM in Chicago and one of the youngest men ever named Remember the Blntz Brothers of Badln Hall . . . 
WALSH, nominated by President Kennedy to bring to the Illinob Appellate Court. Hlzzoner has six Al and Ted? I saw them both within a week. I 
law and order to the Newest Frontier, the Republi­can badlands of Maine. Center and captain for the 
children. had dinner with AL BIN*TZ in his beautiful home greatest posse of them all, complete with four 
on the Muskingum River. .Al is President of the 
hossinen and se\'cn mule sklnneis, .Adam rode the 
Bintz Dept. Store, in Zancs\ille, Ohio. This Is 
football trail for 30 years thereafter, with Yale, 
more than a full time job but .-M is running a 
Harx-ard, the Cleveland Browns, the Los Angeles 1924 one man organization (with the help of a gen­Rams, and eventually Bowdoln College in Bruns­
erous community) called "PALS INC." This out­
wick, Mc, retiring as head coadi In 1958. Since Janics R. Mcehan fit helpj individuals who arc In a tough spot. Tltc 1955 the Marshal from Churchvllle, Iowa, has had 301 S. Lafayette Blvd. local hospitab benefit and community centers are a second career as a businessman and politico, 
getting a hand, and this way the youth of the area 
South Bend 10, Ind. starting with election to the Maine House of Repre­
are benefited. Al got state recognition when he 
sentatives, where he became Democratic floor 
stayed on radio and TV for 24 hours raising funds 
From the Alumni Office: leader. In 1958 a Republican got the drop on him 
for "PALS INC." His brother TED BLVTZ runs 
Although he missed the 35th Anniversary Reunion In a showdow*n for U.S. Representative from Maine's 
a women's apparel shop in Fremont, Ohio. Ted's 
by a couple of summers, ALFRED M. BOEHM First District, and lately he's been in sales with 
boy went to Notre Dame, and he has three daugh­
lingered on campus for two days in May, his first Lcwbton's RAY GEIGER, '32. Adam's appointment 
ters. Ted was in Toledo Hospital for an opera­
visit in many years. AI Is manager of the power and confirmation for the federal job allowed the 
tion, and wiien you read this I hope he will be 
engine sales department for Worthlngton Corpora­wire services to pull a lot of anecdotes out of the 
fully recovered. I saw him a few days after the 
tion, Buffalo, N.Y. bag, like the apocryphal Introduction of himself to 
operation and then I took off for the Furniture 
VINCENT D. SWEENEY, who serxed the Steel-quarterback HARRY STUHLDREHER at the '25 
Mart and a New* York vacation. 
workers Union as public relations director since its Commencement: "My name b ADAIkf WALSH. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 45 
Wc*vc been playing together on the \-arsity for three years but this is the first time youVe had a chance to sec my face." 
As you can sec by the *24 notes, THOMAS FRANCIS COXL\N still has a nose for news as Washington seer for the B.X.A. Thanks for the lip, Tom, on labor publicist VIS SWEENEY. 
Two items of regret; Svmpathy to the widow and family of PETER JOHN MONAGHAN, who died May 20 in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. A hiw grad, John was the owner of Acousticon of Cedar Rapids for 22 years. Surviving besides his wife Irene (335 I9th St. S.E.) arc two daughters and two brothers. Sympathy also to WALTER HALL in Minneapolis on the death of hts father in .April at the age of 84. 
1926 
Rudy Gocpfrich 1109 N. Cleveland Avenue South Bend 28, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS PAUL J. ABEL, ROBERT J. ANDREWS, WIL­LUM BARR, ARTHUR BIDWILL, FR.\NCIS X. BOLGER, ANDREW F. CONLIN, BERT COUGH­LIN, FRANK A. DEITLE, ROBERT J. DOLEZAL, WILLL\M L. DORGAN, RAY.MOND D. DOWNS, RAYMOND \\\ DURST, JAMES F. DWYER, THO^L\S A. FARRELL, RO.NLAN FELDPAUSCH, WILLIAM L. FOOHEY, LOUIS G. FRANKE, 
J. NORBERT GELSON, RUDY GOEPFRICH, GAIL GURNETT, J. ARTHUR ILVLEY, AUSTIN 
K. HALL, GERALD W. HAYES, CHARLES F. HEIN*TZ, HAROLD P. KLEIN, MALCOLM F. KNAUS, HAROLD L. KRAUSER, JOHN B. LENIHAN, CHARLES P. MARGUET, CHARLES 
E. MASON, GERALD McDERMOTT, JOHN M. McMULLEN, PAUL E. MILLER, FRANCIS J. NEES, DANIEL J. O'NEILL, JAMES .M. PE.\R­SON, CLAUDE .M. PrrSE.NBERGER, JOSEPH QUINLAN, .MICHAEL B. REDDLXGTON, GERALD J. REIDY, JOSEPH L. RIGALI, JOHN 
J. RYAN, J. VINCENT SOISSON, FOREST J. SWARTZ, JOHN O. TUOHY. 
Many thanks to JOHN RY.AN, ART HALEY and FRANK DEITLE for their work in preparing for our 35th reunion. 
Of the 263 questionnaires sent out before the re­union, we got 80 returns, among llicm, 45 yeses, 29 noes, and 6 maybcs. Following arc some notes gleaned from these returns. 
I. I. PROBST couldn't make the reunion because he had just returned from a business trip to Chi­cago and couldn't get away again. WADE SULLI-VAN's dauglilcr Molly graduated at about the same time from Miami of Ohio, whicit prevented him from coming. PAUL J. FLEMING: "I will be at N D June 4 for son Paul's graduation. It is unlikely that I will be able to return the following v%'eek for the reunion, much as I would like to." 
DR. URBAN GEBHARD: "Thanks for the re­minder. I'm well married and a grandfather, prac­ticing medicine in Milwaukee." JIM RONAN couldn't make it because his oldest son, Dr. James A., Jr., Class of '53, was getting married on the same week end in Minnesota. FATHER HOWARD J. KENNA regrets that his duties prevent him from attending. NORB ENGELS was out of town on re­union ^veek end. 
John Ryan wrote to FATHER BERNIE COUGH­LIN, asking him to say our Class Mass on Saturday morning. Due to a clerk's error, the reply was not delivered to John; it was returned to Father Cough­lin unopened. He then sent it to me and I for­warded it to John. In his letter. Father said he \^-as just completing his retreat on TTiursday eve­ning, that on Friday he was joumc>'ing to Detroit to attend the wedding of his only godcliild and that he had to be back In his parish in St. Paul on Sunday morning. 
JERRY McGINLEY will arrive late, possibly Sunday morning. AUSTIN HALL is driving up from Memphis with three *36crs. ^VALTER TROHAN \*as in Europe covering the Genev-a Con­ference. Earlier, Walter wrote inquiring about CULLEN BROWN, OTHMAR SMITH and FRAN KENNEDY. On a recent visit to Washington I had a nice phone chat with Walter Trohan, Jr., in his father's absence. 
We want to congratulate JOE RIGALI for having been named Man of the Year by the ND Club of Chicago. Notre Dame has played a big part in Joe's family. His brother and three sons were graduated from there and a fourth son is now a student. His daughter, Eleanor, is a junior at Rosemary- College. Joe is president of Daprato Studios, a church furnishings business in Chicago. 
We regret to announce the death of CHARLES A. MOONEY of Cleveland and DR. MICHAEL F. MALONEY. The>- have both been enrolled in the Holy Cross Mission Purgatorial Society. 
Dr. Maloncy was bom in TefFt, Indiana, In 1903 and died in Milwaukee on March 7, 1960. He re­cei^'cd his B.A. from Notre Dame in 1926, an M.A. from Georgetown in I93I and a Ph.D. from the Univeniity of Illinois in 1939. From 1933 to 1960 he u-as in the English department at \'arious places, in­cluding St. Victor College, University of Illinois, Wright City Junior College, DcPaul University and Marquette University. He did much writing for various journals and authored four books. 
Mrs. G. and I spent the week before the reunion at an automotive convention in St. Louis. While there wc met DR. BERT COUGHLIN, his wife Barbara, his son and daughters Barbara and Blanche. Dan is a senior in architectural engineering at Notre Dame. Tlic girls are both in college. Wc had dinner with Dr. and Mrs. at his beautiful West-borough Golf Club. Wc also had dinner one c\'c­ning with Mar>- and KEN COOK at the Missouri Athletic Club. Ken is director of development at St. Louis University. Tlieir oldest daughter is married, another daughter is a newly professed nun, a son is in the Jesuit Seminary- and another son is in grade school. Needless to say, we enjoyed these affairs immensely. 
Another classmate, FRANCIS A. KELIN, is on f.] 

the staff of the St. Louis Globe-Democrat. A half-
dozen phone calls could not raise him. Nobody could 
tell me of tlie whereabouts of JAMES H. KEN­
NEDY who used to be on the St. Louis Star-Times. 
(Written by FRANK DEITLE AFTER the 35th 

Reunion). 
The reunion is now just a pleasant memor>' and 

I'm sure the forty-one that attended will all agree. 

These men wore the '26 tags — BOB ANDREWS, WILLIAM (BUD) BARR, ART BIDWXLL, FRANK BOLGER, DR. BERT COUGHLIN, FRANK DEITLE, BOB DOLEZAL, DICK DON­NELLY, BILL DORGAN, RAY DURST, JIM OUTER, TOM FARRELL, ROMAN FELD­PAUSCH, LOUIS FRANKE, DOC GELSON, RUDY GOEPFRICH. GAIL GURNETT, ART HALEY, AUSTIN HALL, BILL FOOHEY, DR. GERRY HAYES, CHARLIE HEINTZ, HAROLD KLEIN, AULCOLM KNAUS, HAROLD KRAUS-­ER, JOHN LENIHAN, JOHN McMULLAN, I ' CHARLIE MARGUET, CHARLIE MASON, PAUL MILLER, FRANK NEES, DAN O'NEILL, JIM PEARSON, CLAUDE PITSENBERGER, JOE QUINLAN, MIKE REDDINGTON, GERRY REIDY, JOE RIGNALI, JOHN RYAN, FOREST SWARTZ and JOHN TUOHY. 
The Mass Card showed that 88 of our classmates 

have passed on. Tlie blade of the Grim Reaper has 
been active since our last reunion with MICHAEL 
AWLONEY and THOMAS MURPHY the latest to 
leave us. 
.•\fter the class dinner Friday night there was an election of class olHcers. Your oHiccrs until the next reunion arc: RUDY GOEPFRICH, President; FRANK DEITLE, Secretary; ART HALEY, Treas­urer; DOC GELSON, Eastern Vice-President; IZZY PROBST, Southern Vice-President; ART SUDER, Midwest Vice-President; and BERT DUNNE, West-em Vice-President. ^ ) 
Your new secretary' isn't the traveler that RUDY GOEPFRICH u-as, so he will be more dependent on the notes you send. 
1927 
Clarence J. Ruddy 32 S. River Street Aurora, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTRANT JOHN REIDY. 

JAMES G. WING, of Eranston, 111., has been appointed senior vice-president and chairman of the Loan Division of Lake Shore National Bank, Chi- ^~\ cago, by the Board of Directors. ' 
Jim, who has been a XHce President in the Com­mercial Loan Division of Lake Shore National Bank since 1948, started with the bank in July, 1927, just after rccciWng his Ph.B. in Commerce. Graduated in June, 1947, from the Graduate School of Banking at Rutgers University, he has been a member of the Robert Morris /Vssoclates since 1940. He is mar­ried, has 3 sons and a daughter, and resides at 414 .\shland Avenue in the North Sliorc suburb. Jim's three sons also attended Notre Dame. JAMES D. 
NEW YORK—Up front on Universal Notre Dame Night were: (on dais, I.-r.) Daniel F. Cunninghani, N.D. Man of the Year; Al V. Lesmez, incoming president; Prof. John T. Frederick, guest speaker; William V. Cuddy, outgoing president; Joseph A. Tracy, duirman; Hon. Charles S. Desmond, chief Judge of N.Y. Court of Appeals, guest speaker; James J. Shiels, honored for service on national Aliunni Board; Rev. Michael Murphy, C.S.C., Club chaplain; (counterclockwise from left foreground) Mr. and MIS. Joseph A. Martino, Raymond Reiss, Msgr. Vincent Brosnan, Michael McCarthy, Mr. and Mrs. Harold J. Marshall, Mr. and Mrs. Harry Hagerty, Mr. and Mrs. John Queenan. 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September, 1961 
A WIN'G was a member of the Class of 1934, entered 
^ Holy Cross Scminar>' for two years, graduating from Loyola in 1957. ROBERT J. WING gradu­ated from N.D. in 1955, and RICHARD M. WING graduated in 1957. Jim's daughter Patricia married THOMAS J. McNULTY of the Class of 1957. From the Alumni O.lice: 
Montana isn't exactly a center of X.D. popula­tion, but Judge VICTOR FALL of Helena doesn't feel quite so lonely in the state judiciary with some young alumni filling positions in the executive and legislative branches in the capital. .A picture of Vic with the Irish governmental team appears in this issue. 
1928 
Louis F. Bucklcy 68-10 108th Street Forest Hills 75, N. Y. 
We were pleased to ri-ad in the April 1961 Alum­nus that for the second consecutive year the class of 1928 contributed the largest amount to its Alma Mater, $69,967. From preliminarv- reports received on contributions thus far this year from '28 men, I am sure we will be able to maintain first place among the classes and increase our total consider­ably. Be sure to indicate your 1928 class afliliatton 

^ when you make your gift through the regular fund 
V raising campaign organization. I am pleased to see so many '28 men serving on the Special Gifts Com­mittee throughout the country. 
JOHN FONTANA wrote from Columbus. Ohio, where he practices law and is Central Ohio Staff Assistant to U.S. Senator Stephen Young, advising mc of the appointment of JOE KINNE^VRV as 
U.S. Attorney for Southern Ohio. Joe has been prac­ticing law in Columbus and has served in the past as assistant attorney general in Ohio. Joe is married and has two stepcliildrcn. This is the first '28 ap­pointment I have heard of thus far under the Ken­nedy administration. Keep me advised of others. 
A speaking engagement in Rochester, New York, gave me an opportunity to sec a number of '28crs. I found JOE GERAGHTY, DON CORBET and KEN POWER all located near each other. DON CORBET, who practices law in Rochester, told me 

-A ^^ s<3" >^ with the Kennedy administration in Washington. KEN POWER is with the Board of Elections in Rochester and has three sons. JOE GERAGHT\' is with George Bonbright & Co. In Rochester and has a. daughter, a member of the Mcro- Order. I also talked to PHIL O'CONNOR who is with Eastman Kodak and makes frequent trips to Europe. JIM CONMEY is Vice President of the Tobin Packing Co. in Rochester. While in Buffalo recently I saw BERNIE BIRD who is Deputy Comptroller, County of Eric. Bemle's son graduated from Notre Dame this year and is enter­ing the medical school of the University of BulTalo. Bcmic told mc that JOE BREIG, assistant manag­ing editor of the Cleveland Catholic Universe, was the speaker at a Communion breakfast for the Buf­falo Council, K. of C. Joe has a daughter who Is a Sister of Charity. I also saw JOE ANGELINO who is with the Buffalo Internal Revenue Office. Joe's 
-A oldest boy was receiving his master's degree in chem­
" leal engineering at Carnegie Tech. BILL DOW-DALL's son, N.D. *59, is with him in Buffalo In the Federal Market Company. Bill mentioned that he had just heard from BILL GRIFFIN who Is in charge of Bethlehem Steel Corporation's Legal De­partment. GUS JENKINS Is part owner of another new motel, this one is in Milwaukee. While on a speaking engagement in Hazelton, Pa.. I talked to PETE GALLAGHER who is head of the English Department In the Frecland. Pa.. High School. On the occasion of a visit of FRANK PENDERGAST to New York. BERNIE GARBER, AL DUFF\', BOB HAAHLTON and I got together. Frank lives In Cucamonga, California, where he is with the New York Mutual Insurance Co. AL DUFFY is a member of the Legal Department of the City of New York. BOB HAMILTON took time from his ^vork with Pan American World Ain^'ays and BERNIE GARBER from the Corbin Co. to join us. 
We call*"! BILL COYNE who is with Housing &

9 Home Finance in Washington, D.C. BERNIE GARBER reported that he had seen GEORGE SCHEUER, City Editor of the South Bend Tribune, 
FRANK P. DENNEY, '32 A Purcx Touch m Every Zion Product 
Frank Denncy was elected president and director of Zion Industries, Inc., Zion, Illinois, in the spring at the annual stock­holders meeting held in New York. Frank has been with Zion since August, 1960, as senior vice-president and chief executive officer. 
Frank -was vice-president of Purex Corporation before j'oining Zion. Prior to that he \vas a division manager of Safeway Stores. In the Advanced Management Pro­gram of Harv-ard Business School he strengthened his A.B. from Notre Dame. He resides with his wife in Lake Forest, Illinois. 
Zion Industries, Inc., is a 57-ycar-oId company operating five diversified di\'isions consisting of bakery, candy and drapcr>' manufacturing, petroleum products dis­tribution, building materials, and construc­tion. 

who was in New York attending a convention of aWation writers. 
FRANCIS MEYER tells me that F. X. JAMES O'BRIEN is now associated with Goodbody & Co. in the securities business in Miami. Those of you who attended the Miami game last year saw F. X. JAMES O'BRIEN'S picture on the program. PAUL BRADY is practicing law, with ofHccs at 714 Engi­neers Building, Cleveland. Ohio. I noticed in the Gabrielle magazine of St. Mary's College that JOHN WOULFE, owner of the Clyde Printing Company of Chicago, has been appointed 1961 Chairman of the Chicago Current Parents Com­mittee of the Development Program of St. Mary's, where John has two daughters. 
We \-isItcd ART GLE.-\SON and his family in Stow, Ohio, recently. Art has recovered from his coronary and Is practicing law at 4160 Darrow Road, Stow, Ohio. Art mentioned that one of the plus benefits of his illness is the wonderful letters he received from old friends, including DAN McCAIN of Chicago and BOG DEGNAN of Waseca, Minnesota, from whom he had no report in years. DAN McCAiN is a Captain in the Chi­cago Police Department and lives at 6133 Forest Glen in Chicago. I happened to be in South Bend at Commencement time and saw JOE MOR­RISSEY and his family who were at Notre Dame for the graduation of his youngest son. Joe had seen BERNIE BIRD and DOC MARCUS FARRELL who were also there for their sons' graduation. I met with our class president, JIM AIXAN, to dis­cuss plans for our 35th reunion in June 1963. I am sure you all are making plans now to attend that big event. Jim sent me a picture of HOWIE PHALIN, executive vice president of Field Enter­prbes Educational Corporation, which aj^iearcd ia the Chicago Dally News on April 17, 1961, showing Howie presenting books to student winners of the Brotherhood Week journalism contest. 
ED BRESHAHAN is with the Better Business Bu­reau in Omaha and ED LEVINSON is with the Omaha Fixture and Supply Co. JIM HARTLEY is plant accountant with the American Can Company in Hoboken, N.J. Jim has a son at Notre Dame. GLEN HATCH is President of the Hercules Ce­ment Company in Philadelphia. BILL KONOP is the Central Area Tax Attorney with American Tele­phone and Telegraph Co. in Cincinnati, Ohio. In­cidentally, an error was made in the January 1961 class roster by carr>-ing BilFs address as 1014 Vice Street instead of Vine Street. GERALD (IKE) LUDWIG is a consulting engineer in Kalamazoo, Michigan. 
I am looking forward to seeing the usual excel­lent turnout of '2S men and their families at our annual Class of 1928 cocktail party on October 28, immediately following the North%%'estern game, in the basement of O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
BILL ARMIN wrote from Apt. 1103, 1300 Oak­land Road, N.E., Cedar Rapids, Iowa, where he is with the .\ir Force in procurement. Bill advised that he saw TONY BENNING who is with Dupont at Penns Grove, N.J. I was pleased to hear that Tony will return for our 35th reunion in 1963. 
Svmpathy to brother Harry, '20, and the family of ' Washington, D.C, attorney HERBERT J. NESTER, formerly a lawyer for the Labor Dept. and other federal agencies, who died In late May and was returned to his native Lancaster, O., for burial; also to the 5un*ivcrs of the Class' lone non­religious alumna. Miss ROSE GILLESPIE, a sum­mer school A.B. and a beloved teacher in South Bend schools for many years. j 
From the Alumni Office: j 
The picture in this issue of JOE MORRISSEY ' posing with the FATHER CORBY Memorial at j Gettysburg (better known as "Fair Catch" Corby) J was snapped by his wife Susan as a fitting ob-7 servancc of the Civil War Centennial. < 
Like the late Ernest Hemingway, Secretary LOUIS BUCKLEY seems to participate in as much actirity as he records. The big news on Lou is his appointment In June as chairman of the Labor De* partmcnt's regional staff committee, in charge oC regional directors in his East Coast area. Lou con­tinues as regional director for the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Among his recent publications are his St. Louis address on discrimination in labor, printed in the June-July Social Action Digest, and his Notre Dame address on the changing nature of the labor force, reprinted in the Commercial and Financial Chronicle. Recently Lou was participating in the Brooklyn Diocesan celebration of the anniversaries of the great labor encyclicals by Pope Leo XIII and Pope Pius XI. 
1929 
Larry Staudcr Engineering Bldg. Notre Dame, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTRANT CLETUS SCHNEIDER. 

When Army played here in '58, Navy in '59, and ^tichigan State in '60, the '29ers were agreed that our get-together after a game should be held on that week end. Even after early replies to a survey have been tabulated the Northwestern game, October 28, has a somewhat smaller margin of popularity. However, the will of the majority as evidenced from a can^'ass of early returns says, **I'Il be there for Northwestern and hope to see many of my classmates." A sample of those heard from in this vein includes, FADELL, DIETER, HEMMY. HEINLEIN, MEYER, LENIHAN, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 47 
SCHNEIDER, TOBLV and WAGNER. Our dead­
line for submission of material allowed inclusion 
of only a partial list. If >-ou haven't heard from 
N-our secretarv- by letter recently, this is a re­
minder that he will be glad to add your name 
to the list of those at the posi-Xorlhu-cstem game 
party for '29crs, wives and guests. We welcome 
those of '28 and *30 who choose to join us. 
HUGH J. Mc\LANIGAL, P. O. Box 205, Per­
rinc (Miami) 57, Fla., and wife Hazel will cele­
brate their 34th wedding anniversary' this year. 
Tlieir daughters. Colleen and Jeannie. are both 
married and have nine children between tliem. 
Son, Hugh J., III. after three years in the Army, 
half of which was overseas, is a deputv shcrifT 
with GEORGE LEPPIG, '28, as his diief. Young 
Hugh was president of his training class and is 
continuing his studies at the University of Miami. 
In reply to a request for news on himself, Hugh writes this in;crcsting paragraph: 
*'During the past several years 'during retire­ment,' I created a new small resort city on paper. It is now on the way to becoming a reality, finally. It has been said, of the project, that it shows bold imaginative thinking; nothing will compare with its quality and beauty. I'm quite pleased, naturally. First Research Corp., a na­tionally known Market Research organization who made a study of what I am going to do, said it is economically feasible, based on existing mar­ket demand and local needs to crommence work immediately. So, that is what we are going to do. To give you an idea of the millions involved, just imagine a city of 5,000 permanent population, with facilities for 25,000 in season, all in a marine environment. What docs it take to make it go? Particularly when it is now washed bv the tides." 
He writes also that JERRY OUELLETTE is nm%­Grand Knight of Miami K. of C. You will re­call that Jcrr>' has a son who was recently or­dained. 
If \-ou missed this in the obituarv, wc regret to report that JOHN F. COSGROVE, 418 Mt. Prospect Ave., Newark, N.J., died April 30, 1961. Remember him in your prayers. Mrs. M. B. Smith, Jr., 103 Har\*ard Rd., Fair Haven, N.J., is our source for this information. 
JOSEPH F. RADIG.\N, Federal Building, Rut­land, Vermont, is now U. S. .Attorney, District of Vermont. President Kennedy made this ap­pointment, whidi was efTective May 16, 1961. 
CLETE SCHNEIDER was back as usual for re­union weekend. Your secretary saw his name on the registration record but failed to locate him. He visited with JIM KEATING and others. 
CLETE writes: "Father Otis Wincliester is now at Cuyakoga Falls, Ohio. At a Danny Thomas Show in Cleveland, I saw JOHN COLANGELO and JOSEPH SVETE, of Lorain, Ohio. KARL MARTERSTECK is doing a good job for the 
N.D. Foundation in Cleveland." 
JOE E. KEEFE, Wnter Haven. Fla., and wife Grace Marx-, whose son. Patrick Dennis, 23, spent two years at Notre Dame, write that Pat is study­ing for the pricsthfxxl. Son Jerome Fredrick, 21, will be a senior at Notre Dame this fall. Marj' Jo, 18, will be a freshman at St. Marv-'s this year. Son Brian, 16, is planning on entering Notre Dame in '62. "If someone can change our foot­ball season to July and .August when I (Joe) am not packing oranges, I could make plans to at­tend." 
Sharon, daughter of JOE LENIHAN and wife Dolores (FricI), sister of JOE, '29 and JLM. '30, is entering St. Marv's in September. Joe writes: "I sec MIKE MULLHALL, '60, of Owosso, Mich., an Army Lt. at Fort Monmouth. N.J., after hav­ing been in R.O.T.C. at Notre Dame. His dad, a beloved and well-known classmate, passed away ten years ago. His wife. Ceil Mullhall, will be with us at the Northwestern game partv." 
JAV WAIZ continues to file fascinating stories for 
the New York Times from the Near and Middle East. A recent color storv- described the exotic signs of spring in modem Eg>T>t. 
REV. JOSEPH D. BARRY, C.S.C., has left his nine-year-old job as assistant student chaplain on the campus to become cliaplain of St. Joseph Hospital in South Bend. Father Joe has had much prior ex­perience in tending to the sick and wounded as a World War II cliaplain in Sicily, Italy and Southern France. 
WILLARD C. FORTIER lias been named ricc­prcsidcnt and general manager of U.S. Pumps, Inc., Los Angeles, Calif. Congratulations, Will. 
Finally, deep s>'mpathv to the widow of CHARLES 
W. HEINEMAN, 929 Central Ave., ConnersviHe, Ind., a member of a pioneer N.D. clan. Charles died in Conncrsville on April 29. 

4S Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September^ 
JAMES L. HESBURGH, '55 For Irish Ofiiccr, Twin Coach !n Buffalo 
A name rather well known in South Bend and Syracuse gained fame in BufTalo, New York, last April when the board of directors of the Twin Coach Company elected James Hesburgh as corporate sec­retary. 
Jim has been afHliatcd with Twin Coach Company since 1958 and had been ser\'ing recently as assistant to the executive vice-president, a position he will retain in addi­tion to his.duties as secretarj' of the corpo­ration. Along with a brother in the Con­gregation of Holy Cross, he is the son of Mrs. Anne M. Hesburgh and the late Theodore B. V. Hesburgh, of 609 Char-mouth Drive, Syracuse, N. Y. 
Jim prepped at Most Holy Rosary High School, Syracuse, and bolstered his Notre Dame Commerce degree at the Har\'ard University Graduate School of Business .Ad­ministration. He resides in Buffalo with his wife, the former Mary Kelly, of Manlius, 
N. Y., and their three children. 
Twin Coach Company is a diversified manufacturer with Divisions in Buffalo and Waveriy, N. Y., Kent, O., and York, Pa. The company's product line includes major aircraft assemblies and sub-assemblies, mis­sile and electronic ground support equip­ment, vehicle bodies and components, cargo trailers, and shipping containers. 
1930 
Dcverc Plunkett O'Shaughnnsy Hall Notre Danic, Indiana 
From the Alumni Office: The Class is exceedingly proud to have in its 
1961 

ranks the newest prelate from the Congregation of ^ 
Holy Cross. MOST REV. VINCENT J. Mc-^ 

CAULEY, C.S.C., bishop of the Diocese of Fort 
Portal, Uganda, East Africa. The ceremony which accompanied the consecration of ''Father Vincc" lias seldom been equaled in the histor\' of the Univcr­sitv. Among the Holv Cross hierarcliv present were BISHOP ALBERT COUSINEAU, C.S.C., of Haiti and BISHOP ALFRED MENDEZ, CS.C , of Puerto Rico! The coiisecrator was HIS EMINENCE RICHARD CARDINAL GUSHING (LL.D., '48), and Archbishop Bergan was a co-consecrator with Bishop Cousineau. 
1931 
Jain::s T. Doyle 902 Oakton Street Evanston, Illinois 

REUNION REGISTRANTS ROBERT ALGE, JOHN W. ANDERSON, PHILIP ANGSTEN, JERRY BALL, JAMES A. BIGGINS, NICHOLAS BOHLING, AUSTIN BOYLE, EARL 
W. BRIEGER, JOHN C. BURNS, FR,\NK P. BUTORAC, DANIEL CLARK, R,\Y.MOND F. COLLINS, GEORGE F. C03TELL0, CARL .M. CRONIN, JEROME CROWLEY, JOSEPH F. 
. DEEB, JA.MES T. DOYLE, CLARENCE A. DUR- (l) BIN, PAUL T. FEHLIG, OLIVER FIELD, CLARENCE H. FUTTER, .MATTHEW P. GAR­RIG.\N, JOE GOLABOWSKI, .MAURICE GOOD­EVE, ALFRED GRISANTI, JOHN H. HANSON, FRANCIS J. HOLLAND, GEORGE A. JACK­OBOICE, BRO. ROGER J.-V.MISON, CS.C , GEORGE F. KAVANAUGH, WALTER KELLEY, VERNON KNOX, JOHN F. LAUX, BERNARD .McGLONE, JOHN .McMURRAY, J.AMES .Mc-QUAID, ARTHUR -MARGRAF, ROBERT -MAS­SEY, BERT METZGER, LAWRENCE F. MOL­LER, THO.M.-VS F. MONAHAN, LARRY -MUL­LINS, JAMES .MULVANEY, JA.MES .MURRAY, THO.MAS E. OAKES, EARL O'BRIEN, GEORGE O'CONNOR, RICHARD O'DONNELL, WIL­LIA.M 0'.MALLEY, GILBERT V. PERRY, ( ) WALTER F. PHILIPP, JOHN RALEIGH, WAR­NER REISING, T. GORDON SAL.MO.N', JOH.V 
F. SAUNDERS, H. GILBERT SE.VMAN, ED­MOND W. SHEERAN, BRO. MARTIN SPALD­ING, ROBERT SULLIVAN, FRANK J. SVOBO­DA, JOHN O. WEIBLER, JOSEPH L. WETLI, 
JERRY WIGGINS. 

WILLIA.M C MCCARTHY, manager of rates, has been named a vice president of Kansas City Power & Light Co. He is an electrical engineering gradu­ate of Notre Dame University, and has been with the utility firm since 1934. 
JIM DOYLE might have been too much in the spirit of things June 9-11 to compile a calm record of an extremely pleasant 30th Anniversary Reunion. Nostalgia was rampant at the Morris Inn Class Dinner, with movies and tapes recording past feasts, jpi famines, fables and foibles of the Class that inau-^'' gurated the Great Depression. The week end was de\'Oted to relaxation and refreshment, a fitting follow-up to the hectic 25th, and those qualities show up in this issue's pictures. Star of the show was, of course, JIM McQUAID, looking much fitter and fatter and attended as always by his fair Marie. Jim, as most know, is a victim of multiple sclerosis since an athletic accident in the home town, Vin­ccnncs, Ind. 
One note marred the festivities, the death of D.ANIEL J. EGAN in Chicago on the eve of the event. Secretary Doyle reported the passing in time for a remembrance in the Class Mass. Sympathy of the Class to Mrs. Egan, 2318 Jar\-is Ave., Chicago 43. 
From the Alumni Oflice: JOHN F. MEAGHER, whose son Robert J. was a | ^ recent student, continues to reside at 1771 **N" St., N.W., Washington, D.C He's a Wee-president for radio \%'ith the National Association of Broadcasters. 
GEORGE M. MENARD, '34, outgoing president, was honored at a recent meeting of the board of directors for the NJ). Club of Chicago at the Illinois Athletic Club. Shown after the dinner are: (front row, I.-r.) Art Conrad, 2nd vice-president; Jim Doyle, retiring treasurer; Menard; Joe Pagliari, president; Jack Barry, 1st vice-president; Jack Muldoon, retiring director; (back row, l.-r.) Verne Kelley, Don Clark, Tom McCabc, Joe Shelley, Chuck Falkenberg, Bill Kearney, Ed Mieszkowski, John Fogarty, Ken Schuster, Cliff Noonan, Frank Murnane; Pat Shannon, treasurer; Jim Malooly, Dick Burke, and Paul Fulhner, secretary. 
r* ^" 
1^ 
^ 
W 
1932 
James K. Collins 3336 Kcnniore Road Shaker Heights, Ohio 
REUNION REGISTR^VNT CHARLES J. PETRETIC. 

It was with deepest sorrou* that \vc learned of the death o( two members of the Class this spring— CHUCK \\*EISS and FRED aVRMODY. 
Chuck, who resided at 612 Cushing Street. South Bend, ^\'as a familiar figure around the Campus since graduation, died on April 5th. Fred, who re­sided at 925 Ocklcy Drive, Shrcveporl, La., died on March 1. Rev. Thomas J. O'DonnclI, C.S.C., said a special Mass for ihcm on May 6. 
Our sinccrcst s>"mpathv is extended to REV. JOHN H. WILSON, CS.C, and Mrs. PAUL OTOOLE on the death of their mother this spring. 
 AL CULVER Is confined to Iiis home at 230  Center Street, Hobart, Indiana, seriously ill. Our best wishes for a speedy and complete recover)' arc extended to him. 
CAPT- BOB LEE writes from Jacksonville, and his letter saj-s in part: 
"Although I have been looking fonvard to our 30th Reunion ever since I was unable to make the 25th, it now appears that I am destined to be dis­appointed again. The Na\y is preparing to move me out of sunny Florida, this time to the 'Nav*al Sta­tion, Ketlavik, Iceland, for a two-year tour of duty. Fortunately, Gertrude will be able to accompany me, and we understand that we will have an opportunity to spend an occasional leave period in Europe. 
"Our daughters ore still teacliing school in Or­lando. Roberta, who W3S married last year, hod a baby girl on April 30lh, and «-ith excusable grand­father pride I am convinced that she is the loveliest  child in all the land. It is possible that our other daughter, Barbara, may join us in Iceland later, and take a Job as a school teadicr. 
"I understand that the legal job in Iceland is a rather difEcult one because of the complex interna­tional situation, and it should prove very interesting. 
"Tlic only other recent development here is that 

 passed the Florida Bar E.xam this spring, which may come in handy as Gertrude and I plan to re­tire here some day." 
TED HALPIN and Miss Louise Kathr>-n McGuirc were married in Holy Rosar>* Church, Milwaukee, on May 20. They will live in Mihv-aukcc where Ted has been for several years. JOHN LITCHER and IKE TERRY were among the guests at the wedding party. 
DON RYAN and his wife, Lindy, \-isitcd us re­cently on their way to visit their daughter who is  in a Convent in Philadelphia. They said that Lani,  their daughter, expects to be professed on August 15 of this year. 
Don told of attending a recent picnic at NEIL HURLEY'S farm near Aurora where he saw, besides .\cil, JIM 0'SH.\UGHNESSY, PAUL OTOOLE, JLM IGOE, and FRAN OELRICH. 
It is not too early to start laying plans to attend the 30th Reunion of the Class next June. It is ex­pected that a local committee will be formed up soon, and announcements of plans, etc., will be made in the next issue of the ALUMNUS. If you have any suggestions for the Reunion, they \rill be welcomed by the \%Titer or the Alumni Office. 
From the Alumni Office: The saga of SAL BONTE.MPO, enthusiastically profiled in the New York Times as new "appointee for the State Department's security chief," continues with the fire he draws from Representative Francis Walter of PennsyK-ania. Walter's charges that Sal "lacks experience" (has he been reading the ALUMNUS lately?) are probably based more on the interstate riv-alr^' of PennsyK-ania and New Jersey then on either fact or personality. 
Julie Dunlea\-y, daughter of the late PHILIP DUNLEA\^*, has won a four-year scholarship to the University of New Mexico. Before his death In 1955, Chicagoan Dunleav\' was attorney' general in .Albu­querque. 
On a stellar list of silver jubilee priests of Holy Cross are two well-known classmates of *32, REV. JOSEPH E. P-\YNE, C.S.C., pastor of South Bend's Little Flower Church almost since his ordination, and REV. GEORGE J. BAXTER, C.S.C., veteran of many pastoral assignments in the South Bend area, most recently as an assistant at St. Patrick's. Congratulations, Fathers. 
Congratulations also to FRANK P. DENNEY, recently elected president and director of Zion In­dustries, the unusually diversified civic company of Zion, III. 
1933 
Joseph A. McCahe 2213 Lincoln Evanston, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTRANT THO.NLVS A. aVNNON. 

From the Alumni Ofiicc: Tlie Class lost a distinguished member in the business world with tlie death of LOUIS O. STAELENS in Toledo, O., early in April. Lou was Wce-prcsident for finance at Willys ^Iotor5 in To­ledo at the time of his death, having been named to the post in 1959. A native of Belgium brought to the U.S. as a child, he grew up in Lansing, Mich., before coming to N.D. Starting in accounting with General Motors, Lou moved on to Kaiscr-Frazer, became controller of Kaiser's engine di\'isioR and then of Willys Motors wlicn it was acquired by Kaiser in 1957. He was a member of \-arious busi­ness and ciWc organizations in Toledo. Surviving arc his wile Charlotte (3644 Brenda Dr., Toledo 14) and four sons. 
1934 
T, Edward Carey 223 Ehnwood Rd. Rocky River 16, Ohio 

From the Alumnt Ofiice: L.ARRY LICALZI, who turns out to be director of soles for the Aristocrat Inns of America, is mak­ing a bid for the aliunni trade in the winter of '62, hoping to lure Great Lakes' alumni executives to his motel system in the Chicago area. 
A \isitor during the reunion week end was JIM O'BRIEN, president of the Notre Dame Club of the Bcrkshires, all the way from Pittsfield, Mass. Jim operates Western Mass. Supply, Inc., whole­salers of plumbing, heating, and industrial supplies. 
1935 
Franldyn Hochrcitcr 702 Scarlet Dr. Towson 4, Maryland 
REUNION REGISTRANT JA.MES ifacDEVnr. 

L. J. LACROIX, division sales manager for Brown & Bigelow in New York City, joined the company's new marketing division management team in May at the specialty advertising firm's New York headquarters as vice-president and field sales manager. 
Bom in Hackensack, N.J., he supplemented his 
A.B. from Notre Dame at the Fordham College of Law, joined Brown & Bigelow in September 1947 and has ser\'ed in \'arious sales management ca­pacities since 1951. He was made eastern division sales manager in 1959. 
WILLIAM C. KEEFE was elected Wee-president and secretary of Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Com­pany and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Trunkline Gas Company, by the Board of Directors of both companies at meetings held on Monday, April 24, 1961. Mr. Keefc has been with Panhandle Eastern since 1950 and has been secretary and assistant treasurer of both companies since 1956. He is also a graduate of Hani'ord Law School (1938). 
Mr. and Mrs. Keefc reside at 4 Paddington Circle, Bronxville, New York. The>' have two cdiildren — Robert, 13, and Carol, 11. Bill is a member of Siwanoy Country Club, Bronxville Field Club, the New York Athletic Club and the Bankers Club, New York. 
Election of EDWARD J. VAN HUISSEUNG as 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 49 
assistant secretary- of Comptonielcr Corporation by the company's board of directors was announced June 16. Ed, who is also assistant manager of the corporation's International Division, joined the com­pany as a cost accountant in 1933. In 1937 he ^\'as transferred to the International Dinsion, and in 1937 he i>'35 named assistant manager of the Divi­sion. 
Ed and his wife, Mathilde, and their two daugh­ters, Susan, 18, and Barbara, 15, reside at 250 Grantlc>' Ave., Elmhurst, 111. 

Prom the .Alumni Oflice: A fellow named Kuhariclt is making big news in 
•college circles. Tlie trouble is that it isn't Joe but his brother, TOXY KUHARICH, Hammond, Ind., <Jiier probation officer of the Xortliem Indiana District Court. Tony received an honorary LL.D. from the Atlanta (Ga.) Law Scliool June I. He shared the spotlight with Gen. Robert Taylor, dep­uty cliicf of cliaplains for tlic U.S. Air Force. After receiving his A.B, and M.A. at X.D., Tony went on to Loyola for further sociological study leading to an M.S. All this alphabet soup has led to a post on the faculty of Valparaiso University, where lie is an assistant professor of criminology* and Juvenile delinquency'. Tony has also been appointed by In­diana governor Matthew Wclcli to the newly formed Advisory Committee for Indiana's Department of Corrections. 
Death took FATHER JOHN MURPHY, CS.C , at about the time tliis department was congratulat­ing him on being named a member of the Indiana Pronndal Council and provincial secretary. He Joined FATHER KERNDT HEi\LY, his immediate predecessor in that post. .A resounding "requicscat" to a humble and hard-working priest \vhosc heart xvorc out from his giving of it. 
1936 
Joseph J. Waldron 70 Black Rock Road Yardley, Pennsyh-ania 

JR., PAUL E. RUBLY, L. CHARLES SCHAF­FLER, JOSEPH W. SCHMIDT, WILLLWI J. SCHMUHL, JACK SCHOO.\0\'ER, JOHX F. SftVFFER, FRANXIS P. SHAPIRO, JAMES J. SHERRY, WOODROW STILLWAGOX, RICH­ARD F. SULLIVAN, EUGEXE E. TOBIN, PASCIL\L TOFURI, JOH-V A. TORRIBIO, THOMAS J. TRE.\CY, JEROME VOGEL, FRANK C. WADE, JOSEPH J. WALDRON, FRED WEBER, JACK WHITAKER, GEORGE M. WOLF. 
SILVER ,A.NXIVERSJ\RY 
The Silver Anniversary, 25tli reunion of the class of 1936, canic to a laboring halt on Sunday, June llth, as weary (and bleary) old grads packed their sea-bags and headed home. From California and Texas, Maine and Florida (and South Bend) they came to compare waistlines and hairlines. Tlie pro­cedure follou'ed so carefully was to extend a Iiand, quickly look at the card on the shirt and confi­dently sing out the first name. Some appearances went with tlie names, others wore their years less gracefully. 
DISTINGUISHED RETURNEE 
Tlie most distinguished member of the rcuttion group was STE\'E NOVAK, who said he recog­nized no one but TON'Y MAZZIOTTI. A poll of all present revealed no one remembered Steve. It is generally thought that he resided in a room up inside the Dome. Nevertheless he quickly became tlie most popular thirly-SL\er. 
LIST OF THOSE REGISTERED 
A list of those who registered in person should precede these musings. If not, in a later issue the incorrigibles will be reported. 
LOa\ L ARRANGEME-VrS COM.MITTEE 
Tile local Vigilante Committee, with JERRY VOGEL and MORRIE COOPER, t>vo fine sons of Erin, running herd on arrangements, is to be con­gratulatetl for the cultural activities it arranged — breakfasts, refreshments, luncheons, refreshments, dinners, refreshments, smorsgasbord, rclrcshrocnis. "Doc" Cooper even opened his drug-store after hours one evening to replenish the snake-bite serum. 
.MONOGR.\.M CLUB DIN.NER 
Vmtors began arriving Thursday, the biggest con­tingent on Friday. A few of the die-hard cx-ath­lelcs attended the Monogram Club Social in Morris Inn Tliursday night. GEORGE CANNON (who just * scrapped his "thesis" in Engineering, an outboard motor which ran and lasted for 25 years), FRANK WADE, ART CROXIN, KEVIN KEHOE, WOODY STILLWAGOX (down to 240 pounds), BILL GIL­LF.SPIE, H.\XK POJM<\N, SAL CO.MMISA (in good shape), JOE O'NEILL (staid oilman from Texas), and a special guest, BOB .>facDO.VALD (fatlier of nine, tip your hat). JOE KUHARICH, never knouii to make public claims, was the es­sence of conscrv-atism about *6l prospects. The few slips he made indicate that X.D. men can hold heads high if lucky enough to get tickets this fall. 
LYONS ILVLL ItE,VDQUARTERS All legitimate returnees stayed in Lyons Halt, and all marvelled at the lavatory arrangements which are still as sparse now as 25 years ago: the shower handles are trcaclierous, the windows always open, the mean temperature about 40 degrees, not ^ enough **reservecl" seats for the main corridor, let " alone the wing residents. 
LARGE (GARGANTU(\N) FAMILIES No final and complete tabulation was made, and no attempt is hereby made (o slight anyone, but the talk centered around these sprightly classmates: NORV CASPER with II (and one-half) seemed to be highlv respected; JOE MacDONALD, BOB Mac-DOXALD, JOHX ODEXBACH running well with 9 each; dozens of *'slackers" with 6, 7, 8. \ few of the class members have sons at N.D. and/or daugh­ters at St. Mary's. Young MIKE O'COXXOR and JOE O'XEILL are wearing tlieir Dad's clothes now and arc much more handsome than their elders. 
DIRTY POLITICS Seems as if a grudge was carried all these years, as the political machine swung into action and rail- ^ , roaded BERT B.AUR as your new President; as ^ secretary, JOE WALDRGX; and rightly rewarded JERRY VOGEL for yeoman service by making him new Class treasurer. The old "saw" about leaving the room to buy a horse fit Bert as he returned to the class dinner to find himself new president. Your secrelar>' vociferously objected but President-emeritus JIM SHERRY took the Fifth ^Vmendment and re­fused to accept other nominations from the floor. 
CLASS DI.V.VER, FRIDAY XIGHT 
Despite efforts of the local committee to get a dispensation, Jerr>' Vogel had to arrange for fish. 
REUXIOX REGISTR.4NTS RICHARD BAKER, JOHX T. BARBER, XEIL 
C. BARXETT, ADELBERT B.\UR, WILLIAM BAYER, GEORGE A. BIXDER, JOHX BRADY, JACK F. BRAY, J.A.MES B. BURKE, GEORGE CAXXOX, ALBERT D. CAREY, XORVIX CAS­PER, ROBERT W. a\V.\X.\UGH, AUGUST CHURCH, SALV.ATORE COM.MISA, XORXL\N COXLEY, MORRIS B. COOPER, ARTHUR D. CROXIX, JR., PAUL W. CU.MMIXGS, ED­WARD D.^LEY, WILLIAM DARCY, JOHX E. DeMOTS, JOHX R. DesXOYER, SALVATORE DiGIOVAXXI, JOSEPH D. DO.VXIXO, P.AT­RICK J. DOXOVAX, THOM.-VS W. DO^\•XlXG, EDWARD R. DUXX, RICHARD P. ECKRICH, EDWARD P. EPLER, ROBERT F. ERVIX, WIL­LIAM FAY, WILLIAM FLAXNERY, JAMES FOOHEY, LOUIS T. GABRIEL, WILLIAM F. GILLESPIE, LEROY J. COXRING, W1LLIA.M 
A. GOTTS.ACKER, THOMAS H. GRADY, JR., HER^LAX GREEX, HEXRY W. GRUBB, P.AUL GUARNIERI, REV. EDMOXD F. HA.M.MER, DAXIEL J. HAXRAH.AX, ANDREW L. HELL­MUTH, RAYifOND A. HERRLY, D. JOH.V HICKEY III, LEO J. HOFSCH.VEIDER, LEON 
C. HUFNAGEL, FRANCIS M. JOYCE, KEVIN 
O. KEHOE, REV. RO.MAN LADEWSKI, CS.a , KEXXETH LAWS, JOHX A. LORITSCH, DALE LOVELL, JOSEPH MacDOXALD, ROBERT J. MadJOXALD, WILLLAM C. MacDOXALD, EUGE.XE F. MALLOY, ANTHONY J. .M.AZ­2IOTTI, DONNELL J. McCORMACK, ROBERT 
P. .McDOXOUGH, EDWARD T. .McXALLY, GEORGE R. McXEILE, FRED S. .McXEILL, GEORGE E. MILTO.V, ACHILLES H. .MOOR­MAX, JOHX J. MORAX, GILBERT R. MOTY, ARTHUR MULHOLLAXD, FRAXCIS J. -MUR­R.4Y, JOH.V W. .XORTOX, STEPHEN' B. NOVAK, DAXIEL T. O'BRIEN, .MICHAEL O'CONNOR, WILLI.AM O'CONNOR, JOH.\ W. ODEXBACH, JAMES C. O'KEEFE, JOHN G. O'MALLEY, JOSEPH I. O'NEILL, JR., JUSTIN OTOOLE, LARRY PALKOWC, HEXRY POJ­MAN, JOSEPH PONZEVia JOHX PREN-TICE, WILLIAM QUIXLAX, ALFRED H. ROHOL, 
MOHAWK VALLEY—Reading the citation for a "Notre Dame Man of the Year" award to Daniel E. Watcrbury, '44, of ^Vhitcsboro, N.Y., are participants in U.N.D. Night in April at the Beeches, Rome, N.Y. (l.-r.): James T. Griffin, '34, Rome; Club President Kenneth F. Murphy, '34, Utica; Rev. 
•) 

Thomas J. O'Donnell, CS.C, '41, principal speaker; Daniel E. Waterbury, Jr., accepting the award for his father (absent on business); and Gerald 
E. Bachman, '52, Whitesboro, dinner chairman and toastmaster. 
3.0 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 
/^ATIIC new Dining Hall near llic old Field House was 
^'th c scene. President JIM SHERRY contained a raucous group until he gave up and joined in. ART CROXIN attempted a serious speech (some claim it was on the subject of Mother's Day) but faded when his voice gave out. Two Iiours later he was whispering to a loyal group around him, all sound asleep. The surroundings were lovely, the 1%-ailrcsses all female. Somehow it didn't seem the same without the big pitchers of milk, the steak platters with scr\ings for 12 getting past only 2 scats, the muscled, T-shirtcd waiters, a quick be­forc-mcals grace and a yell to "pass the spuds, you bums." 
SMORSGASBORD AT ^^DXIGHT 
Another big feed at Lyons Hall, under the Arch, was welcome after the tricky trout at dinner. Among those enjoying the festivities were FATHER KEL­LER and FATHER JOYCE. A fc\v offbeat pictures 
c« were taken. Only the carefully-censored will pass for possible ii5c. 
GOLFERS ^V.\D GOOFERS Some of the more tanned classmates indicated all is not Work and worrj", and their scores showed a disposition to enjoy low handicaps. Between rain squalls the sun was hot and the course in fine condition. Awards were given out at the All-Classes Dinner on Saturday night. Among the winners: HERM GREEN, a mid-seventy score, low among class entrants; JOHN "MUSCLES" ODENBACH, a 248 yard drive (with only half a swing). 
CAMPUS SIGHTSEEI.XG >fost of those who had not been able to return for any reunions before tliis one found a magnificent plant for education and living. Born "25 years too Q^ soon' was the feeling as new halls, the Rocknc Me­morial, buildings for art, science, research, site of new llbrar>-, cic. were all Wsitcd. 
OLD ACQUALVT/\XCES F.VTHER ARTHUR HOPE, confined to the newer Infirmarv', was visited by some of his cx­studcnis. He is still quick of mind and retentive of memory* — always a refreshing experience to talk with him. 
FATHER DOREMUS, hurr>ing across the cam­pus "late for a meeting," dianges ver>' little. FR. HOLDERITH, finally retiring as golf coach, a shade grayer but on the lookout for more Mohlers, Days, Greens, Montedonicos. 
".MAC" .\tc.\LLISTER, Grand Potentate of the Field House and holey socks, torn T-shirts, small 
Oshorts, left-footed track shoes, etc., still barking at the uninitiated who have the temerity to ask for clean outfits. \Vhethcr an AII-;\mcrican or a skinny interhall participant, "Mac" rides the range. Tlicre was a faint snifT of Airwick in the locker bins. Time was %vhcn a head cold \^*as in\'aluable as you entered the equipment room to turn back the "ripe" outfit only to have Mac blast out that it looked clean to him. Some said all N.D.'5 power was not in speed, muscle, brain or brawn — but often in Mac*S radio­active socks, shirts and J-Strings. 
I»KESIDENT'S LUNCHEON FOR 25-YE/\R CL.ASS 
FATHER HESBURGH ^%-as host for the class lunclieon. He encouraged open discussion of the needs of the University, preparation for college among high scliool students, marking methods, college-entrance exams, outside class work, the N.D. man today, quality education pursuits and their practical attain­
^ mcnt, achievement ratings, new freshmen dean and the direction of incoming students, the human factor and its closer study at Notre Dame, chances for sons of Alumni to get into college, etc. Time ran out and the questions were still flying at FR. HES­BURGH, who answered as many as completely as data available would permit. 
OTHER SIDELIGHTS Numerous graduates were not able to appear as thc>- liad sons and daughters graduating die same weekend from high school. Some of the N.D. Glee Club in *36 tried to join in the "singing" on Saturday night but found velvet tonsils no longer present. JI.M FOOHEY, BERT BAUR, BOB MacDONALD had to give ground to the robust trilling of SOSXY CHURCH, CHORGE CANNON and dozens of less talented (how less could you be?) noise makers. Did you ever hear the ^ Victory March get massacred 25 consecutive times? All weakened residents of Lyons Hall did for hours on hours. No one could remember the words of any other song. Lar>-ngitis was an occupational hazard. 
FRANK B. BLOEMER, JR., '22, and his wife Alanc show the truck-mounted mobile home they're using on a 10-weck trip through the Pacific Northwest in this Louisville Courier-Journal photo. 
FR/\XKIE GAUL RE.\IEMBERED The class sent FR.\NKIE GAUL a little remem­brance to let him know prayers and some material assistance were backing him up in his difficult ill­ness, covered in past issues of the ALUMNUS. 
CL.-\SS MxVSS FATHER ED HAM.MER lifted the curtain of dawn at 7:30 Saturday morning in Lyons' Chapel and almost 100 received Communion from him. DOCTOR KEN L.AWS ser\ed .Mass and proved he could still mumble the Latin. 
LrVW GRx\DUATES OF 1936 CUVSS If any of you wish to be listed with the '36 Class instead of the law year of 1938, you may indicate to the Alumni Office that you desire the change. CLIFF BROWT; and others have already made the request to be on the '36 Class roll rather than '38. 
GIFT GIVING TO THE FOUND.\TION It was pointed out by Art Crontn that any gift ma> be earmarked for the "Joe Boland Scholarship Fund" and it will qualify along with the Ford Fou.idation participation to the University. Some class members felt that JOE BOL^VND could be honored and the University stiti share in Ford Foundation funds by requesting that any gift you make be assigned to "Joe Boland Scholarship Fund" for assistance to sons of Monogram winners, according to their needs. 
MASS IN GROTTO O.N SUNDAY MORNING 
A spiritual lift was indeed proper as a climxx to a busy, interesting and friendly reunion weekend. The morning tvas beautiful, the atmosphere con­ducive to meditation. 
EVERYONE IS AN AREA REPRESENTATIVE 
Keep in contact with eaclt other, now that the icc has been broken after 25 years. Your Secretary will rely directly on all of you for the nc%vs, views, etc. Please keep it coming and be frequent in your re­ports —which, after all, are the bases for the words you will read under 1936 in later ALU.NLVUS edi­tions. 
CL.\SS DIRECTORY These lists are as current as records In the Alumni oiBcc would permit. It is likely that every member of the Class of 1936, whether he attended the reunion or not, will receive a copy. Please check it against your situation and any other knowl­edge you may have about ^'Address Unknown" classmates. 
From the Alumni Office: In welcoming BERT BAUR as chief csec and JOE WALDRON as the new scribe, the manage­ment wishes to extend a "well done" with the Class to departing yeoman BOB ERVIN; and for tireless scr\ice in planning the Perfect Twenty-Fifth for "Perfect *36," special thanks to outgoing Prexy JLM ("Take a Bmck, any Bmct") SHERRY; JERRY ("Afox-ies arc Worse than Ever") VOGEL; 
.MORRIS ("How's That for a Prescription?") COOPER, and their local gang —FATHER JOHTf BURKE, DALE LOVELL, GEORGE McNEILE, TED PREKOWrrZ, JACK SCHOONOVER ct al. 
— for their credit cards, diplomas, directories, smorgasbords and plentiful beverages. Somehow, Vogel says, the Class is still in the black. Can you top this, JOE QUINN and '37.' 
A solemn note crept in when BOB ERVIN re­ceived a telegram announcing that H.-\ROLD HAUSER had died In Cobleskill, N.Y. ^fas5es were said for him on campus on June 3 and June 10. The sympathy of the Class goes to his \vidow Vesta (112 East ^^ain, Cobleskill] and his four children, ^fark, Paul, Jane and John. 
Tlie week before the reunion saw a classmate take on a new class loyalty. It was a lomr time between semesters, but DEAN BOLERJACK, Mishau-aka (Ind.) chief of police, realized a 30-year ambition by receiving a degree at the 1961 commencement. Dean, who became a grandfather this year, got an 
A.B. in sociology, having spent the last three years taking afternoon classes to complete his senior year and working nights to make up the time at the police station. In the intervening years Dean worked for the F.B.I, in AVashincton and ser\-ed as a trooper with the Indiana State Police. His senior essay was a study of juvenile delinquency in ^(ishawaka over the past decade, a subject in which he had done a lot of research. Congratulations, Dean, for giring the lie to those moaners who claim an old-timer couldn't make it in this era of excellence. 
JOE AVALDRON should give the cigar to JIM SIDDALL, the Acme Steel Products man in Apple­ton, Wis., who wrote: "I had originally planned on attending the Silver Anni\'ersary of the Class of 1936, but the ver>- recent arrival of our Ilth child forced mc to cancel my plans. I hope to attend the next reunion in 1966." You do that. Jim. with a baker's dozen to insure the parent prize. 
J. E. KUMLER, rice-president for research and engineering at Ranco, Inc., Columbus, O., 'was a moderator at Tune's 68th annual meeting of the American Socictv of Heatine. Refriceration and Air-Conditioning Eniincers (ASHRAEl in Denver. 
Finally, did you catch the Chicago Tribune's women's page proHle on ^^a^y Jane Glcason. wife of Veterans' .\ff^airs Administrator JOHN S. GLE.A­SON, JR. (who was heading for AVashington while most were heading for the campus). St. Mary-of­the-'\\'oods grad. mother of si'c srrapoing sons (John 
S. Ill, 17; Daniel. 14; Richard. 12; Thomas. 9; Da\id, 7: Martin. 5). and former mistress of a " IG-room house In Winnctka. 111. Here's hoping the Administrator u-ill consult with his classmate. AVorld Banker BOB CAVANAUGH, on how to suspend affaire of state long enough to join the group for the 30th in 1966. 
1937 
Joseph P. Quinn P.O. Box 275 Lake Lcnapc Andover, New Jersey 

REUNION REGISTRANTS CLIFFORD F. BRO^VX, JAMES H. .McGUIR^ NORBERT TINNES. 
Again wc welcome some new names to the colmnn. JOE MANGELLI, a teacher in BloomBeld H.5., N.J., has decided to report in. Joe vfalted XJJ. this spring as his son Peter Is a freshman and took along the Mrs. and another boy, John. This trip was his Hrst back since graduation. JOE MOORE also teaches In Bloomfleld High and hasn't come through with any news in a long time. GORDON" MURPHY sent a card from the Grand Teton area (Wyo.) where he was attending a bankers' conven­tion. Seems as though these fellows like to spend our interest money going to conventions. From the Dearborn Inn, Michigan, comes a challenge from \VTL KIRK of the Dallas, Texas, banking family. AVil, being an area V.P. and also a nois>* character at. the reunions, thinks it is about time the lads shook themselves loose and decided to do things come next June. If VTtl thinks it will be easy he has another thought coming. Tlic Secretary contacts an average of 50 men for each column and Is lucky to end up u-ith 3 to 6 letters in return. One thing, though, I ^rill acknowledge: that some Ion? time missing' names are coming through — for which we are thankful and know you wish to read about ever>'one from the class. A reunion committee wilt get organized and we will be contacting you both for literature ahout youiselves and a fee In adviance. ^Vill Kirk has promised that he won't ham up the 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 51 
•"serious'* part of ihc program at reunion time. 2t was just a coincidence that the National Open was being held in Michigan \*-hiIe Kirk ^^•as there. JACK GILLESPIE fon\-ardcd two items of news — one about his old loomie, FRANK LESSELYON'G wlio has been elected a V.P. at Tonka Toj-s, Inc., of Mound, Minn. Tliis is one of the firms you fathers support so well at Christmas time. Jack's society news item states lliat FR.\NK HARDART (doctor Frank) is engaged to Miss Frances Tliercse O'Con­nor of Waicrford, N.Y. This will shake up some of Frank's old bridge partners. Frank obtained his medical degree at Columbia University and is now on tlie stafT at St. Vincent's Hospital and N.Y.U. Medical Center. M a reminder again — wc will be after information from each man in the fall and also your cooperation on our plans for the reunion. 

From the Alumni Office: Finishing up his term of office as president of the Kansas City Diocesan Council of Catholic Men and <^barking on a new job after election to the board of directors of the National Council, EDWARD J. REARDON described his stewardship in an article, 'Th e AVork of a Year," in a recent issue of the Catholic Reporter. It was quite a year, packed with such programs as bringing the stor>' of DCCM to the parishes, encouraging daily Mass attendance, work in international relations, and cooperation with dozens of social agencies and appeals. Good work, Ed. The perennial inventor JOHN .M. PO^\XRS III took out another patent, this time in Canada, on a process for recovering pure benzene from a mixture. 
U.S. and British rights were sewed up prcriously. John is a section head for Humble Oil research & development in Baytown, Tex., investigating petro­chemicals. Tlic Powerses have a daughter and Uvo sons, so naturally Pop is active in area Boy Scouting. 
JOHN NEWTON CACKLEY, JR., running tlic alumni-development show at New Jersey's Fairlcigh Dickinson U., has popped back to South Bend a couple of times to check on the children's ailments, dispose of his country- estate, and finally to pack Marguerite and the brood off East when sdiool ended. He didn't dare come near the campus for fear he'd be shanghaied back into ser\-ice of tliat "Program for the Future" he had so big a part in founding. 
Pray for FRANCIS FORREST EGAN, whose death more than a year ago was only recently un­covered by JOE QUINN. 
1938 
Bumie Bauer 
1139 Western Avenue 
South Bend 25, Ind. 

CHUCK SWEENEY'S name appeared locally in the news more often the past few months than JFK ("that other prominent Irishman," as DON HICKEY sa>*5] and Chuck's traveled about as much. Sweeney toured Europe, found that JACK ANTON is well known in Rome, where he is studying for the priesthood; got back in lime for the Monogram Banquet during reunion weekend where he ^s-as ejected president of the National Monogram club with the help of CHARLIE CALL-AHAN's, JOHN­NY MURPHY'S JOE KUHARICH's, BILL "T­BONE" iL\HONEY's and my political maneuver­ing; and then married olT his oldest son at a big wedding to which he invited none of Ins classmates "because none of them have learned to cut down on their eating yet." Tliat includes Chuck if you look at him sidewa>-s. 
"T-BONE" MAHONEY was here for the .Alumni Association Board of Director's meeting so naturally took in the Monogram repast being an old track star, captain and coach. Besides being Arizona's leading attorney, T-Bone headed the Kennedy push in Arizona last year and has debated neighbor Barr\' Goldwatcr several times — and prc^Jably will have to some more. 
On a C. of C. trip to Norfolk, Va., to watch Na\y maneuvers, I phoned JOHNN*Y BRADDOCK while stopping over in Wasliington, D.G. I was glad to tell Johnny that I coached the championship grade school baseball team in the South Bend Cath­olic league made up of 22 teams this spring. Johnny will be back for the 25th reunion for sure, he says, 
52 Notre. Dame Alumnus, August-September, 
JOSEPH H. HARRINGTON, '39 Honrosa Condecoracion, Distmguido Hombrc 
EI Gobicmo de Panama anuncio medi­ante cl Dccreto No. 346, que ha conccdido la Orden de Vasco Xiincz de Balboa a] distinguido hombre de ncgocios, Mr. Joseph Harrington, residcnte en Panama dcsde hace muchos anos y Gercnte General dc la Pfizer Corporation, una de las firmas mas grandcs dc la Republica. Esta honrosa distincion a tan meritorio ciudadano e& en premio a su constante labor en pro de la comunidad. Mr. Harrington reside en Pa­nama dcsde hace veintidos aiios, dedicado a los ncgocios tanto en Panama como en Colon. Ha sido Prcstdente de la Sociedad Americana de Panama, Club Rotario de Cristobal-Colon, Forum de la Zona Libre y en la actualidad es Presidentc de la Asociacion de Gerentes y Viceprcsidente del Circulo de Investigaciones Economicas. 
Mr. Harrington es graduado del Colegio de Comercio Intcmacional de la Universi­dad de Notre Dame, con titulo de Ph.B. in Foreign Commerce. Llego a Panama en 1939, efectuando estudios en nuestra Universidad en el ano 42-43. Asistio a la Universidad Intcramericana en 1944, donde estudio la economia de Panama. Durante la guerra compro caucho en el interior de Panama y organize la primera compania de Almacenaje General de Deposito en Panama. Trabajo con el Banco Fiduciarfo como Jcfe del Departamento de Crcditos. En 1951 organize una "zonita" en Colon para Pfizer Corpjoration y ha sido su gerente por nueve anos. Esta firma comenzo con 5 empleados y ha crecido constantemente hasta hacerse la compania mas grande de la Zona Libre. 
1961 

and w*ants the rest of you to start planning to comcg 
(Ed. note: **Second the motion!") I also had lunch" 
with old Minnesota friends, Senator Eugene Mc­
Carthy and his assistant, E.MERSON HYNE5, ivho 
received an M.A in apologetics in 1939 from N.D. 
Only other neu'S from classmates was sad. Both 
JIM CARSON and JOE DROLLA lost their moth­
ers this spring. Jim lives in Indianapolis and Joe 
in New Orleans, 
MOVIE Section: VIC BECK moved into a new 
}wmc at 3212 Kenwood Blvd., Toledo 6, Ohio; 
GEORGE BELANGER across the street to 100 
Jerusalem, Lcrittown, N.J.; RAY FIEDLER, old 
Brownson halt roommate, from Mexico to ^finne­
apolis, Minnesota, to be u-ith .Archer Daniels Mid­
land Co.^ 700 Investors Building, Minneapolis (look 
up TOM BOHEN who is teaching at St. Thomas, 
Ray). JOHN BROWN GUGGISBERG, old "B" 
team end who helped mc end up on my end on 
many a block, liked San Diego so well when wc 
were in the ifarine PLC class there that he bought 4 
a new home in nearby 7320 Encclla, La Jolla. 
ART .MULHERN is still in Glen Ridge, N.J., onlv 
now at 61 Woodland .Ave. JOHN PLOUFF, much 
traveled in recent years, moved from Birmingham, 
Mich., to 5252 Woodside Drive, Indianapolis, Ind. 
back home in Indiana, where I wish the rest of 
you outstanding N.D. graduates ol '38 ii'oitld send 
some news . . . NOW! 
From the Alumni Office: 
F.B.I. Chief HARVEV FOSTER received the "Hoosicr of the Year Award" at the annual Sons of Indiana in New York Dinner held back in May. Har\'ey £s a past president of the national Alumnt .Assn. 
FATHER HESBURGH, a rising young classmate, has been speaking to headlines all over the U.S., picking up honorary degrees at Columbia and Princeton, and this spring became (in words used^ to honor him as diief guest at South Bend's Press Club dinner) the only trustee of the Rockefeller Foundation who has taken the vow of poverty. 
DR. LAWRENCE T. EBY, assistant manager of Enjay Chemical's market development dinsion, re­ceived the 1961 Honor Scroll of the New Jersey Chapter, American Institute of Chemists. The scroW recognized Larry's "long and continuing interest in the professional and technical problems of the chemist and chemical engineer. Larr>', who took master's, bacliclor's and doctor's degrees at N.D., was diairman of the Jersey chapter three years back and is chairman elect of the 6200-membcr North Jersey* section of the American Chemical Society. 
Tlicn there's Des Moines Register reporter NICK LAMBERTO, promoted from major to lieutenant colonel in the Air Force Rcscr^•e; J. RUSSELL LONGON, appointed president and managing di-M rector of Chr>"5ler IntematioRal S.A. in Geneva, " Switzerland; and LEONARD H. SKOGLUND, JR., named vice-president and treasurer of Scully-Jones Sc Co. and president of Scully-Jones International. 
1939 
James N. iVfotschall 
Singer-Motschall Crp. 
10090 West Chicago 
Detroit 4, Michigan 
REUNION REGISTRANT ^ VALENTINE DEALE. 

Here it is nearly fall again and I hope that I may sec some of you on the crampus during the foot­ball season. From a scuttlebutt around town, we arc led to believe that Notre Dame's team will be \-astly improved over last year, and may be up for a national recognition once again. 
Below arc some of the letters I have received in the past few months and 1 will continue each issue with a part of the letters so that we may have a good representation in the issues to come. For the ones who have not as yet sent in their last questionnaires, please do so as quickly as possible. 
RICHARD T. ANTON resides with his wife Louise and five children in Hinsdale, 111. He is manager, relations department, for Hotpoint Di'v. of General Electric Co. Richard did not attend our ­20lh reunion but Is planning on being with us for M the 25th. 
TOM R. BOSSART, JR., resides with ^vifc, the former Joan Terry, at UIO Brooks Lane, Blooming­
(j|toQ, Ind. He is professor of management and man­agcment consultant at the School of Business, In­diana University. Tom hasn*t been on campus for the past 10 years and therefore says he wilt make evcr>- cfTort to be with us at our 25th reunion. He would like to hear from HUGH GARVEY, PHIL NORTH, TOM BARRY and BOB (MOE) WILSON. 
TOM BULGER is vice-president and secretary at Union Federal Savings & Loan Assoc. He resides with bis wife and two daughters at 5921 Wasliing­lon Blvd., Indianapolis, Ind. Tom attended our 20th reunion, had a great time and is looking for­ward to an even greater time at our 25th reunion. He would like to hear from J. J. BERNARD, JOHN \VHEELER, TOM GILLESPIE and JIM ROCAP, JR. "Demand" he attend 25th reunion. 
JOHN S. CLARK, JR., is in tbc real estate busi­ness in Chicago, 111, Wedding bells at last caught up lo John. He was married to Adelaide Daly of Chicago this past April 8. Good luck to you and your new bride. Looking fonvard to seeing you at the 25th reunion. I am certainly glad you have recovcreti from your skiing accident. 
JOHN F. CONRAD prefers to be called Frank to John, resides with bis wife Martha, sons: Mike, who is in his 7th year of training for the priesthood and will be ordained in 1966; Bob; daughters Jaync, Sally, Beth and Susan; at R.R. No. 5, Box 324, Vincenncs, Ind. Frank is teacher and coach in Indiana and has coached Gil Hodges, first baseman for Los Angeles, during his high school years. John was unable to attend our 20th reunion and if pos­sible he will be at the 25th and would like to hear from anyone from the class of '39. 
JA.MES B. DALY, M.D., surgeon, in Fair^iciv Park, Ohio, lives at 4476 W. 213 St. with bis wife Mary Elizabeth and six children. We are glad to hear that you had a mar\clQus time at the 20th reunion and u-e arc looking forward to seeing you 
"lat the 2ath. Dr. Daly cnjoj-s the ALU.MXUS very much, reading about the successful careers of his classmates of '39 particularly and Notre Dame men in general. 
PAUL M. DONOVAN is an Attorney in Elmira, N.V*., ^vhcrc he resides witli liis wife Helen and children Matthew, Katherine, Michael William, Mary and Paul. The last time Paul was on campus was in 1959. The next time will be for the Notre Dame vs. Syracuse game. He thought wc might be interested to note that Ernie Davis, the Syracuse standout, is from Elmira; that, as usual, Notre Dame looked him over twice and didn^t take him. He Is a remarkable young man and vcr>' highly regarded in this community. His mother has worked for his office for nearly four years so his contacts with Ernie have been ver\* close. I wish he could have gone to Notre Dame. 
•. LAWRENCE A. DOYLE resides at 25 Creslwood 
' Road, ^^orTistown, N.J., with his wUc Virginia and five children. We were happy that you could be with us at our 20tb reunion and are planning to see you at the 25tb. Lawrence is a member of the Notre Dame club of New Jersey. 
WALTER ALTON DRURY. .M.D., is a physician and surgeon in Willard, Ohio. His wife Dorothy and five children reside with him at 805 Maplcwood .\vc. Sorry you weren't able to attend our 20tb reunion and although your plans are uncertain for the 25fh, we are hoping you can be with us. 
RICHARD J. GARAB resides at 193 Coutant Ave,, Flushing, Mich., where be Is general manager of Tliermo-Fax Sales of Flint, Inc. He lives with his wife Carol and children Danny, Neil and Ellen. Ricliard enjoys reading the Ahimnus especially where friends are located and what the future has brought his classmates. 
FRANK X. GEORGE is supervisor, of employ-

I mcnt ser\-iccs for Great Lakes-Steel-Corp in Michi­gan. He lives at 934 Winchester, Lincoln Park, Mich., with bis wife and two sons and t^vo daugh­ters. Frank has not heard from WALT SHORT or ART D.WIS since Christmas and would like to hear from them once again. The last time Frank was on campus was in 1958 to inter\iew graduates for employment with his company. Hoping you can alter your plans to include our 25th reunion. 
FRANK J. LANIGAN is a lawyer in LaPorte, Ind., where he lives with his wife Dorothy and /our children. Frank was on campus the fall of I960. Glad to hear that you arc planning on being with us on our 25th reunion. 
RICHARD T. LUCKE resides \>-ith his wife, Vir­ginia, and seven children. He is presently a teacher and a restaurant owner. Wasn't able to attend our 20th reunion because summer resort business made it difficult to get away. If possible, he is hoping to attend our 25th reunion. Richard would like to hear from JOHN M. BRODERICK, '40; WILLIAM PRENDERG.AST, *3B, and Father Brennan and the wasps in logic dass, 1936. Richard was on 
LANSING—Universal N.D. Night (above) in the Albert Pick Hotel featured (below, K-r.): Treasurer Paul De Rose, *52; President Bob Mooncy, '32; Rev, John E. >Valsh, C.S.C., '45, N.D. Foundation director and main speaker; Vice-President Rich Schneider, '32; and Secretary John Powers, '55. 
campus for the Notre Dame vs. Georgia Tccb game 
in 1959 and sa.\v Prof. FR.\NK O'MALLEY, visited 
campus, Washington Hall, New Buildings; stopped 
in and saw Walsh Hall — same as ever. He looked 
for Prof. RICHARD SULLIV^VN's reviews in book 
section of Chicago Tribune cverv' Sunday. If he isn't 
too busy, would like to hear from him and Prof. 
O'Mallev. 
^VILLIAAf J. AfcNAMAR/V is a member of the 
Notre Dame Club of Chicago, III., attorney at law 
specializing in estate planning, and resides with his 
wife Louise and three children at 704 Gundcrson 
Avenue, Oak Park, 111. Bill was with us at the 20tb 
reunion but since he was on a combination course 
B..\. '39 and LL.B. '40, he will be attending the 
25th reunion u-ilh the class of '38. Bill would like 
lo hear from J.\CK DE.\NE, FR.VNK BRIGHT, 
and C. J. DALY or learn their whereabouts. 
NICHOLAS J. ME.AGHER, JR., is in the bank­
ing business in Vernal, Utali, where he resides with 
Dale Ann and Nicholas III. Nicholas is Itoping to 
attend our 25th reunion. 
THO.MAS E. O'MALLEY is the President of Southwestern Glass & Millwork Co. in Phoenix, Arizona. He lives with his wife and two children. Sorr>' you weren't able to attend our 20th reunion but hope you can make it to our 25th. 
REV. HARRY A. PAUL is a priest at Immaculate Conception Church in Anchor\-illc, Michigan. Rev. Paul looks fonrard to reading the ALUMNUS and the latest news of his fellow classmates. 
WILLIAM W. RUNGE resides at 408 W. Market St., CrawfordsvilJc, Ind., with his uifc Afar>' an<J children Tom, twins Bill and John, Marv* Frances and John. Bill is personnel director for Steel In­dustries, Inc. He would like to hear from I^\RRY PETROSHIUS, GEORGE REEVES and TOM AfcINTYRE. Bill was on campus this past Fcbruarv-. Hope to see you at our 25th reunion. 
SALVATORE SaVRLOTA, M.D., Is a physician in Flushing, N.Y., where he resides with his wife Georgia and sons, Vincent, Paul and John. Sorr>' to hear you won't be with us at our 25th reunion. 
We were sorry to hear about the death of FRANCIS M. PA\'NE, SR., father of Francis Jr. of our class, who died in April, as well as one of our fellow classmates, LOUIS M. JANKOWSKI, who passed away on May 15, 1961. It would be nice for all of us to remember them in our prayers. 
There have been many letters since the last issue. However, wc have a long way to go and I would certainly appreciate hearing from the ones who have not as yet sent in any of the questionnaires to me or at least the last one that «'as sent to you some few months ago. 
Wc will try our best to make this column inter­esting for all of you and it is only with your help and contribution that wc can do so. 
Sec you in tiic next issue. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Since he got his LL.B. with the Class, although 
persisting in loyalty to '38, perhaps '39 shoidd 
participate in HARVEY FOSTER'* being named 
"Hoosier of the Year" by the Sons of Indiana in 
New York. 
Sympathy to the wife and son of LOUIS M. 
JANKOWSKI, a 20-year veteran of the South Bend 
police force, who died on the threshold of retire­
ment May 15. Formerly a lieutenant, Lou had been 
in ill health since a truck ran him down in 1938. 
Although he was with the Class for only a year, he 
wilt be remembered in all future Masses and prayers. 
1940 
James G. Brown 
144 East 44th Street 
New Yorlt, N, Y. 

Tlic dean of the School of Law at Montana State 
University was the second recipient of the Carroll 
College (Helena, Montana) Borromeo .Award. 
A native of Helena, Dean ROBERT E. SULLI­VAS was presented the award at commencement held May 28. 
The award is presented to a person who has dis­played outstanding zeal, courage and devotion in one or more activities that characterize the notable acliievements of St. Charles Borromeo, the patron of the College. 
"Dean Sulli\-an has distinguished himself with con­tributions to his profession and to society with an illustrious career as a capable lawyer, teacher, and administrator," the president of Carroll said. 
^Vith .A-B. and LL.B. degrees. Dean Su]]I\-an practiced law in Ohio and ser\-ed as an adjudicator with the Veterans .Administration before returning to his alma mater to teach. In 1954 he went to the Sfrhool of Law at Montana State University as pro­fessor of law and assistant dean, and the follan-iog year he was appointed dean. 
Author of Several books on gas and oil law, he has also contributed to a number of Industry and legal periodicals. He has also ser\*ed on \-arious regional and national oil and conserv-atioa commts­sions. In World War II he was a major In the U.S. .Air Force, serving in the European Theater with the Troop Carrier Command. 
In 1943 he married the former Eleanor M. 1.3ux of Cleveland, Ohio. They are the parents of seven children. 
REV. CORNELIUS P. BERGAN, C3.C., for the past two years assistant pastor at St. Bridget's Church, Hobart, Ind., died May 31 unexpectedly. He was a native South Bender and had filled pas­torates throughout Northern Indiana. His uncle is REV. CORNELIUS HAGERTY, C.5.C., of Notre 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 2961 53 
Dame. Deepest sympathy lo Father Con and the 
rest of the family. 
Pretty clever of Alumni Prex\- WALTER FLEM­
ING to have installed a fellov*- Texan and former 
national alumni president (JOE O'NEILL, *36) as 
chairman for the N.D. general appeal this fall. 
1941 
James F. Spellman 7 East 42nd Street New York 17, N. Y. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS ROBERT L. BARTL, RICHARD A. BATT, NORMAN A. BRINGMAN, DANIEL BRODE­RICK, ED BUDDY, JOHN E. BURKE, JOSEPH CALLAHAN, JAMES P. CARROLL, DON CASSIDY, EDWARD L. COLBERT, W. E. COT­TER, JR., WALTER (BOB) CRONIX, THOMAS 
A. DELLA, CHARLES E. DILLON, ROBERT E. DOWD, WILLIAM J. DUNHAM, MILL.\RD (ED) EDMONDS, CYRIL T. GARVEY, WIL­LIAM J. GARVEY, ROBERT CASS, RALPH GERRA, JOSEPH GILLESPIE, WILLIAM M. GLENN, HARRY GOTTRON, EDWARD A. GRAHAM, GEORGE W. GREENE, JOSEPH P. GUILTINAN, JAMES HANNIGAN, WALTER H. HARTUNG, WILLIAM R. HAWES, WILLIAM 
R. HENNESSEY, JERRY A. HICKEY, FRi\NK HOPKINS, WILLIAM HOSINSKI, EDWARD L. HULTGREN, ROBERT B. JEHRING, ELMER 

J. KAMM, DANIEL A. KELLEY, RAYMOND J. KELLY, JR., HOWARD KORTH, DONALD E. KRALOVEC, WALTER W. KRISTOFF, -MI­CHAEL S. LAMBERT, J.AMES O. LANG, S.ALVATORE LaPILUSA, JOSEPH V. LAWLER, FRANK LINK, ARM.AND LOPEZ, JOH.N V. LUCAS, LOUIS A. MacKENZIE, GEORGE J. M.AURY, C. W. NLARQU.ARDT, JR., JAMES J. McCARTin', FR.A.NK -McGRODER, JOHN P. -McN.AMARA, RICHMOND A. ME.AD, JOH.N E. MORTELL, EDWARD R. MURRAY, JAMES H. MURR.AY, E.MMETT NECAS, J.AMES NEW­LAND, JACK O'BRIE-V, RICHARD C. O'CO.V­NOR, ROBERT C. ODENBACH, CHARLES OLU'EROS, JR., JOH.V F. O'LOUGHLLN, ROB­ERT K. OSBORN, AL PERRIXE, GEORGE J. R.ASS.AS, JAY J. RE\-NOLDS, JR., LEO J. ROBIDOUX, JERRY .A. RY.AN, ROBERT E. SASS, IRWIN J. SCHAFF.VER, VI.VCENT SCHIRF, HUBERT J. SCHLAFLY, R.AY H. SCHLESIER, JOHN W. SIEVERT, JOSEPH V. SMYTH, JAMES F. SPELLM.AN, D.AN J. STACK, JOHN ST.ACK, -NLAURICE STAUDER, THO.NLAS 
E. TALTY, DONALD C. TIEDE.M.AN.V, J.AMES 
R. TINN-Y, HAWLEY VanSW.ALL, THOMAS C. VINCENT, RICH.ARD L. WALTER, J.AMES -A. WHITE, WILLIAM C. WILSO.V, WILLIAM F. WINGE.V, ROBERT L. ZUBRAS. 
Frtim tlie Alumni Office: 
PAUL KELL sent in a clipping \ia BOB CA­HILL, '3+, announcing that ROBERT J. S.AGGAU has been appointed director of sales for Spincraft, Inc., Milwaukee metal spinning concern, in cliargc of contract and product marketing. Bob, a former All-American, had been special accounts sales mana­ger in the products division. 
WARREN A. DEAHL is the end of the recently reorganized South Bend latv office of Oare, Tliorn­burg, McGtU & Dealil. Warren, a beaver in com­munity affairs, has been with the firm for 15 years. 
A Silver Anvil Award, highest national honor in the field of public relations, was presented rccentiv to FRANK J. WE.MHOFF, Indianapolis, vice^ president of Caldwell, Larkin & Sidener-Van Riper, Inc., and director of the p.r. di\Tsion, at llic annual convention of llie American Public Relations Assn. in Atlantic City. 
JOHN F. G'LOUGHLIN, a former district com­mercial manager, has been named district market­ing manager for city accounts for Illinois Bell Tele­phone Company. John has been with Illinois Bell for about 20 years, is active in Chicago youth center work, and is past president of the South Shore Com­mission. 
GEORGE L. COSTELLO, Neiv Milford, N.J., has been elected a vice-president in cliargc of the busi­ness and professional books di\-ision at Prentice-Hall, Inc. George completed undergrad work at Fordham and has a master's from Columbia U. Teacliers College in New York. 
Pray for EUGENE TOOLEN, whose widow just recently reported his death in January, 1958, leav­ing t%vo sons now 14 and 11; and for EUSEBIO S. AZnOZU, JR., of Havana, Cuba, whose widow Josefina just reported his death in Miami, Fla., on Nov. 7, 1960, leaving two cliildrcn, Euscbio and Jeannette, after a year in Florida working with the General Tire Co. 
WALTER J. "BOB" CRONIN, sales rep for United Trucking Service, Detroit, was one of many who dropped their cards at the 20th reunion. For the benefit of the N.D. and S.M.C. Classes of '79 or thereabouts, HARRY GOTTRON, JR., filled us in on heirs: Harry P. Ill, born in January of 1957; Carol Ann. bom October, '58; and John Allen, bom October, '(JO. 
JIM SPELLMAN hasn't reported in, but what more can be said of the 20th than tliat it was an e.xtremely pleasant %veek end? Special thanks should go to JIM TINNY and all the locals who saw to it that food, refreshments, etc., were so excellent. 
1942 
William M. Hickcy 3333 West 47th Place Chicago 32, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTRrVNTS DAS DAHILL, BILL HO^'NE. 

ROGER BROWN Is officially known as Com­mander R. W. Brown, Supply Corps, U.S. Xa\y, 
U.S. Atlantic Fleet, Headquarters of the Com­mander in Chief, Norfolk 11, Virginia. Rog u'litcs that his only recent contact with our class has been through tills medium. For some reason he hasn't come across any of our classmates since World War 
II. Since World War II time in the Pacific he lias been an East Coast sailor In and around Nor­folk for the past 12 years. He expects travel orders this summer. Rog married in 1947 and has three boys and three girls ranging from 12 years to 7 months. 
JI.M FRICK now resides at 2318 Rosemorc Av­enue, Apt. K-I2, Glensidc, Pa. He married t^vo years ago and ihej* arc busy house hunting because of the expected arrh-al of Clilld No. 2. He hasn't seen any of our classmates in the Philadelphia area except SAM BOYLE who is with the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin. He adnses us of the death of EMMO* GRIFFIN'S mother and we extend our condolences. Jim for the past ten years has been doing labor work for Reading Company in Phila­delphia; negotiations, arbitrations, mediation, etc. All ver\* interesting but ncrx'ous. 
DON CASEY is now li\ing at 705 E. Forest Av­enue, Necnah, Wisconsin, and Is working for a divi­sion of American Can Co. peddling labels for loaves of bread, with whicli duty he travels the country and also gives him some relaxation away from his four young box's. At the Fox River Valley N.D. Night dinner Don was elected vice-president, and among the locals he saw RAY EBERLE; he also had lunch In Neenali recently with DAN SHEVLIN and JI.M ASMUTH, and all is well with them. 
From tlie Alumni Ofhce: t 
Congratulations to GORDON T. BETHUNE of Duluth, Minn., recently appointed comptroller of 
U. S. Steel's Oliver Iron Mining division. A Proctor, Minn., boy, Gordon joined Oliver as a clerk after graduation, had steadily adv'anced through bookkeeping, cost accounting and statistical jobs. 
Also to THOM/VS M. HOB.\N, appointed fleet sales manager of Marmon-Herrington Company's heavy duty tractor division in Indianapolis. Tom, a native of South Bend, has had experience with Mack Truck, International Harvester, and the 
U.S. Navy. 
1943 
Jack Wiggins 5125 Briggs Avenue La Crescenta, Calif. 

From the .-Mumni OfHcc: RAFAEL ALDUCIN advised of a change of address to Anatole France 129, Colonia Polanco, Mexico, D. F. Fonnerly running a hotel in Aca­pulco, Raf is noiv working In Banco Xacional de Mexico, S. A. main office. On May 25 he was mar­ried to Miss Maria del Carmen Perez Cuellar. Raf writes: "I will be ver>' much interested to sec my old friends when they come to Mexico. I i have had the pleasure of seeing LEO LE>VIS down here." A report via JOHN CACKLEY, '37, names a fellow named Blalz (no relation lo Cackley's favorite beverage) as "a genius electronics specialist now In England." Sounds Interesting, especially since LEO J. BLATZ (c/o Esso Export Ltd., Dor­land House, Lower Regent St., London N. \V., England) is a chemical engineer. 
< 
1944 
George Bariscillo, Jr. 416 Burlmgton Ave. Braillcy Beach, N.J. 

Class "pre.\y" JOHN LYNCH telephoned from Idlcwild the other day. He was between planes en-route to Seattle on business for the Perini Com­panies, and had time to report that the CHUCK PATTERSON'S were recently hosts to the Lynch's and JIM CUNNINGHAM at a dinner party when 
DENVER—Club officers since Denver Club's Notre Dame Night last spring arc (I.-r.) Carl Eibcrger, re-dectcd president; Bob Zeis, vice-president; Jim Coughlin, treasurer; and Mike Halligan, secretary. 
54 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 
OS im was in llic Boston area for consultations with housing olHcials. Jim is based in Pittsburg at the moment with an urban rc-dcvcIopmcnt asenc>-. The Lynch's, by the %vay, added to their brood with the arrival on March llth of young Christopher. 
Other news-bits from our class leader . . . MAURICE CASEY is head of Casey-Curran Ad­\xrtising home office in Holyokc, Mass. . . . HERB Cl^VRK. is now back in Chicago after three years in Toledo. He was in printing and binding supplies and recently became associated with R. R. Don­nelly. The Clarks added Anne Marie to their roster this past January 2nd and their new address is 2021 Kenilworth Avenue, Wilmette, 111. 

With deep regret, we report the passing on Febru­ary 15ih of MATT O^BRIEN. Matt was in Brcen-Fhillips and Lyons and left X.D. in '42. He is sur­ge d by his wife, Ruth, and two sons. Remember Malt and all other deceased classmates in your jdaily prayers. 
o 
BILL WALDRON, our Eastern V-P, sent us a squib from the Wall Street Journal, quoted here verbatim: "Rocliestcr, X.Y», public relations man DAVE CURTIX is preparing to make a major in­vestment in ham radio equipment." 
JOE PONS is all in clover these days what with the success of Carr>* Back in the Kentucky Derby. Joe and his brother operate Countrj' Life Farm in Bel Air, Md., where Carr>* Back's sire, Sagg>% stands. The horse business is booming for the Pons* brothers these da>-s. They have six yearlings by Sagg^* at their farm. We expect to see Joe at nearby Monmouth Park this summer. And, incidentally, be­sides the horse business, Joe and his wife own a dress shop in Bel Air—that's a switch—he was in 
N.Y. recently on a buying trip and had lunch with "SLIM" BRADY and abo visited with BILL O'CONNOR. Statistically, the O'Connor's have 6'/4 

Ooflfspring, and the Pons', five youngin's. Joe filled us in on Father JOE GALLAGHER who was or­dained a Paulist priest on May 1st at the Paulist Churcli in N.Y. and celebrated his first Mass at Our Lady of Victory churcli on Wall Street on May 6th. The prayerful best wishes of the class are extended to Father Joe whom we hope to have with us at our next reunion in *M. In case you haven't checked the calendar recently, we'll be converging on the campus in less than three years from now to celebrate our 20th. It's never too early to begin making resolutions to be among those counted present. 
NEIL FOWLER Is active with the X.D. Club of Boston. He u-as recently appointed head of the Scholarship Fund acti\-it>- of the club. And BILL O'BRIEN, a past president of the Boston Club and Local Club Foundation Director, carted off the Boston "Man of the Year" award for *6|. 
( ( Our mid-west correspondent, "BLACK JOHN" MURPHY, diccked in faithfully \%-iih news from his section. "Murph" is still %\-ith Chas. Pfoer & Co. out of Terrc Haute, but hints rather strongly at the possibility he and the family may soon be trans­ferred from the banks of the Wabash to the canyons of X.Y.C. A promotion is taking shape and we in the East Mil be happy if John begins gracing our scene. 
Maybe it's because of the heat we're suffering along the Jersey Shore as I wrap together this col­umn—but, more honestly, it's because I can't hope to compete with the literar>- quality of **Murpli's'* interim report, that I quote verbatim from John's latest communique: 
"Lately I have been spending considerable time at our Chicago Distribution Center working with Regional Sales Managers in our four sales di\'isions. While it has been rather rough on me as a father 
C and husband, my time has been well spent seeing many, many Chicagoland friends, Notre Damers, and othenvisc. 
*'Lct's sec, where to begin?!?! First of all, my path has crossed with *RED JOHX* and STEL MURPHY on frequent occasions, much to my waist­line's regret. Stel is a superb chef and the 'Old Redhead' is still the Western world's finest non­union bartender. Tlie Wilmctle brancli of Clan ­
- Murphy ' is ,•• fine-T*how-,- can - they •. miss - w-itli - such . 
.-- magnificent menus — and we arc expecting them for their annual tour of Terrc Hautc's niteries in the near future. 
"Similarly and sometimes simultaneously we've seen JIM and M. J. KANE. They and their many splendorcd family arc also in fine fettle and if Jim sur\'ivcs Little League over this decade, he has c\-er>- chance of making our 25th Reunion. 
"Also seen were WALTER 'Mox' ROGERS, FRANK VIGNOLA, and TOM O'CONNOR. My 
o 
former Walsh triple roomie is still happily residing 
in Oak Park, and is still sitting on the throne at 
Crown Stove. Despite rising costs, price squeezes, 
etc., "Mox" looks good. 
JOHN C. QUINLAN, '48 
For **Voice of the Cubs," a Vocal Year 

Jack Quinlan, WGN (Chicago) sports announcer, has had at least two reasons to be happy in the past year: He was chosen to broadcast the World Series be­tween the New York Yankees and the Pittsburgh Pirates, and his wife presented him with a second son last November. In addition to covering all Chicago Cubs games, he broadcast the AU-Star baseball game on NBC Radio, which totals up an e-xciting year for the 34-year-old announcer. 
The Cubs' radio announcer since 1956, Jack officially joined the WGN sports staff in the spring of 1958. He began his radio career ten years earlier, with \\T)Z in Tuscola, 111., and later ^vas heard on WMBD in Peoria. He joined the sports staff of WIND, Chicago, in 1952 and assisted the late Bert Wilson in covering the Cubs games for three years before he was named the number one announcer in 1956. 
A graduate of Western Militar>' Academy in Alton, III., before coming to Notre Dame, Jack majored in speech, although his great interest throughout school days was sports. Between semesters he held a \-ariety of literally "odd" jobs — from lifeguard to grave digger to theater usher. 
Jack met his ^vifc, Marilyn, \yhile broad­casting Bradley university basketball games in Peoria. With four children — Maureen, Susan, Jack and Patrick — they make their home in suburban Skokic, 111. 
Featured on the Tribune Sports Desk, he has emceed \'arious record and \'ariety shows. Besides these assignments, the recog­nized '^oice of the Cubs" is commercial announcer for the Chicago Bears Football games and recently has been featured on WGN-Television's "10th Hour News" with up-to-the-minute sports coverage. 
"The 'Old Shortstop' has been making history in and arotmd Chicago. The name of Vignola stands for one of the (if not THE) finest in retail quality furniture establishments. Frank has also been cru­sading tirelessly in the realm of anti-communistic education. 
"The LaGrange O'Connors now number nine,' 
including Tom and Fran. Ha\'ing just celebrated 
their I2th ^vcdding anniversary, tliey have also pur­
chased a new home, one that will provide more 
"liebcnsraum" (sp?) for their grou-ing family. Wth 
the J. \Valter Thompson Agency five years, Tom is 
very happy with his executive work and quite 
hopeful about the future. 
"I had just missed JACK THORNTON at the 
Homestead one night, and of that I am sorry. 
"Put in a call to BOB G.ALVIN at ^(otorola to 
comment favorably on his firm's latest structure. It 
is a thing of beauty and he deser\-es much praise 
for his firm's progress on all fronts. He casually 
mentioned being appointed to N.D.*s Board of 
Trustees, and I am sure all '44's are pleased at 
this news. 
"ED DO^VLlNG's wi'fe. Dotty, penned a Une 
reporting that "Old Blooper" has been on tour in 
Europe and the Near East. JOE GALL uill appre­
ciate knowing Ed's alive and should be back in Xew 
Hyde Park by now. 
"I have dropped notes to TED HALEY, in Bea­
con, New York, and FRANK "Mickey*' FINN in 
Fair Lawn, Ne\v Jersey. Let's hope their writing 
hands will heal soon. Ditto for BILL O'BRIEN up 
in Lexington, ^fass.. and JIM LLOYD in West 
Bend, Wisconsin." 
And that concludes our jottings for this session, 
^fany thanks for reading these humble ramblings; 
but, please do me a favor and grab pen, pencil or 
t>*pewriter and send along a message to help me 
meet my next deadline. Repetition sometimes is the 
ke\' to success, so I repeat my full name and ad­
dress: George A. Barisdllo, Jr., 416 Burlington 
Avenue, Bradley Beach, New Jersey. 
From the Alumni OfHce: 
The Baltimore X^e\v3 recently carried a long pro­file on JOE PONS and his brother John, sons of the breeder of Man O' War and the proud owners of the prize%vinner CaiT>' Back at their Coimtry Life Farm for race horses. Joe, who runs the farm and lets his brother handle the business, hated to miss Carry Back's triumph in the Kentucky Derby but felt the ordination of roommate JOE GALLAGHER into the Paulist Fathers was more important. 
Mrs. Helen Bowling, mother of St. Matthews (Ky.) .\fayor BERNARD BOWLING, sent in a Louisville newspaper clipping announcing the arri\'al of Bernard's tenth child and her nineteenth grand­diild in a picture of Bernie, Jane and all ten little Bowlings. If a glossy print can be procured the ALUMNUS will show the current leader in the 1944 paternity sweepstakes. 
Secretary GEORGE BARISCILLO plans at least one visit to the campus with Susan during the football season — probably the Oklahoma game but perhaps Navy or even Syracuse. 
1945 
Frank M. Unchan 
29 Burr Drive 
Dalton, Massachusetts 

News is somewhat thin this time. Many of our ' classmates have not acknowledged ..our.. request for news. If you" haven't'.sent "in somcnews'this'ycar, --. j do it now. I 
FRANCIS "LOU" GUINEY has been transferred from New York City by Taylor Fibre Company to • its home ofHce in Norristown, Pennsylvania. His < charming wife, Pat, presented him with their 6th 1 daughter on February 10th. Lou keeps plenty busy around the house but does get in a round of goU now and then. 
From llie far west we hear from PAT SUTHER­L.AND, commissioner of the State of Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission. Pat has had a busy life since leaving N.D.; he received his law degree from the Washington Law School, served two years in the State House of Representatives and ten years in the State Senate. In between all this 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September, 1961 
politicking he mamcd Mar\- Loncy of Klamath Falls, Oregon, in 1948. His other interests, besides being an active Democrat, include presidency of the Seattle Chapter of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick, active membership in both U.N.D. and 
U. of Washington Alumni clubs. Tlic Sutlierlands have tliree daughters. 
Tlie Celtic Federal Savings and Loan .\ssociation of Indianapolis, Indiana, Itas as its president JOHN WELCH. John, "'ho has been president of llie Asso­iriation since 1956, is another extremely active alum­nus. He lias recently been appointed to the Indianap­olis Redevelopment Commission. He is a past presi­dent of the Indianapolis .Alumni Club, 5ccretar\'­treasurcr of the Insured Savings and Loan League of ilarion County, a member of the .American Le­gion aiid Knights of Columbus. 
Big BILL McNEIL, the bacliclor arcliilcct from Davenport, Iowa, is looking forward to our next reunion. Bill had a great time at the 15th and hopes our 20th will be even better. 
Bill spent a weekend with the BOB OTOOLEs last fall. Bill says he is bigger around titan Bob but Bob has more hair. 
Mac, wlio was always close to the clerics is doing nicely in the civic and ecclesiastical field. He spends most of the winter in Florida absorbing the sun­shine. 
From far off Taiwan, we hear from our Marv'­knoll friend, FATHER DICK DOWNEY, through HARRY \VALTERS. Father is quite happy out there and is working very hard. He sponsored a Chinese lad at scliool who finished this year. He misses hearing from the "bovs"—HARRY RYAN, WALT McDERMOTT, MIKE GARRY and the others who hung around the Caf. How about it fellow's—let's cheer up Father Dick with a note and a small ofTcring lor liis mission—ji is pretty tough out there —REV. RICHARD DO^\*^*EY, ^L^L, Catholic Mission, Shin Che, Tung Shih, Taiwan, Free China. 

Our first class sccretarv-, JIM SCHAEFFER, diecks in from .-Vlkon Products Corporation, Haw­thorne, New Jersey- Jim is sales manager for Alkon, a manufacturer of hydraulic and pneumatic equip­ment. His family, wife and four children, arc mov­ing from Park Ridge, Illinois, as soon as he finds a spot on the "Jersey Shore," 
From one of the noisiest fellows in class, JIM i DUGAN, comes a short note. Jim is working for I the Navy in Cleveland and runs into a number of 
X.D. tellows in fiis travels: BOB KRx\.MER at the LAS Propulsion meeting, JOE O'HARA and DICK LEITE at the same meeting a year ago, JACK DOYLE at a local Catholic Charities dinner and our Southern V.P., JOE HAGGER, at the American Astronauttcal Society in Dallas. 
South Holland, Illinois, reports in that CARL OUCZAREK has recently become the father of a baby girl, March 4. Tlie Ouczarek's have two bo>-s, 4 and 2. Carl is with Mctropolluui Life and is active in the local Holy Name Society and Garcia Moreno Council, K. of C. 
Another Democrat from the West also clieckcd in for tliis column, DICK MARTIN. After N.D., Dick went on to Marquette and received his masters and returned to California to take up a teaching ca­reer. He Icadies at Hoover High Scliool in San Diego. Dick just completed a term as president of the San Diego .Alumni club and he states, "It is one of the most active alumni clubs in the countrv*." He has held about every office in the local Demo­cratic organization, and is a member of the County Democratic Central Committee. Other than politics, his hobbies are reading and fishing. 
New addresses arc on record for the following classmates and will gladly be made available to any of you desiring tliem: FATHER BILL BEVING­TON, FATHER HAROLD BRIDE, C.S.C.; AL CIZAUSKAS, DR. JIM COONEY, FATHER DON FARLEY, C.S.C.; JI.M DOLAN, BROTHER FELICLAN, C.S.C.; LARRY HACKETT, ED LaROCQUE, JOE LONG, DR. GIL McMAHON, DR. BOB BLACKHURST, JOHS BROZO, JOHN CLARY, BOB CRONIN, VINCE GUSHING, FATHER BILL DONAHUE, C.S.C.; JOHN FLEAKA, DR. JIM HINES, BROTHER LEON­ARDO, C.S.C.; BOB LUKE, D.AN McNAMARA; JOHN BOWXN, JR.; JULES CATTIE, DR. BILL COGHL.AN, DR. FRANK CURRAN, FATHER CHARLES DELANEY, C.S.C.; ED FAUST, FRANK GUINEy, DR. BOB HUGHES, DR. CHARLES LESLIE, BOB McOVRTHY, FATHER MIKE MURPHY, C.S.C.; JIM O'CONNOR, ERNIE RAUSCHER, TOM SCHERER, GEORGE SIPFEL, J. D. USINA, JOHN O. DONOGHUE, CUFF RINGWOLD, GEORGE SCmVARTZ, ED 
56 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 
CARDINAL O'HARA 
Sarcophagus in Sacred Heart Church 
will have a bronze statue of the 
Prodigal Son by Ivan Mcstrovic, 
commissioned by the N.D. Council 
of the Knights of Columbus, 
of which the Cardinal was a charter 
member. Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, 
C.S.C., \'ice-president for business 
affairs, accepts check from Grand 
Knight Thomas M. Mcdland, '61, 
(center) and Fred E. Freeman, 
financial secretar>' of the N.D. Council. 
STROOT, FATHER JOHN WALSH, C.S.C.; FRANK PE.\DARVIS, BILL SANTINI, DR. CHARLES SCH\\'INN, BOB THO.MAS, and DICK WHITING. 
Have you sent your news in yet? 

From the Alumni Office: 
Congratulations to JOHN R. RYAN of Connect^ cut Mutual Life, Hibbing, Minn., on his new listing with the National Association of Life Underwriters* Million Dollar Round Table, having sold a million dollars worth of insurance during 1960. 
C. JAMES P.ARIS finally made good his prediction that he was headed for Hawaii. From 87-681 Far­rington Highway, Maili, Oahu, Hawaii, Jim wrote: 
"I've finally made, after a 7 montlts* lag, the hoped-for transfer. During the intervening months since my return from Kodiak, Alaska, I was stafT to the Remote Stations Operations Manager at the main plant in Sunnyvale, California, and lived at my home in Palo Alto. 
"But since June 1 I've been the Station Services supervisor at the Hawaiian Tracking Station. Gloria and the kids are vvith me thb time, unlike Alaska, and we've got a fabulous house, right on the beach, althougli the beacli isn't the more famous one at Waikiki. We're on Mailiilii Beach, which has been 
mercifully shortened to Maili for the town name. In W 
fact, I can Iiear tlie surf pounding outside tlie open 
window as I type this. The ground begins sloping 
away about ten feet post the house, and about 35 
feet further is the bcadi. 
"Coming here is sort of like Jumping from the 

frying pan into the fire. At Kodiak all we did was 
to initiate the separation sequence, but the capsule 
would be beyond our tracking range by the time it 
was recovered. Here at the Hawaiian Station, we 
start where Kodiak loses track and follow the 
capsule during its descent. Wiat a thrill to have the 
bearings suddenly stop changing, and know that the 
reason is that the paraclmtc has deployed and slowed 
it down to where, to a tracking antenna, it appears 
to he hanging at a stalionar>' bearing. There ivcrc 
two recoveries while I was up at Kodiak, two more 
during the tour as staff to the big boss of all the 
"Remote Stations," and already in the six weeks 
I've been out here, there have been two more re-^ 
coverics. It's getting kind of routine now, to do what " 
a year ago had never been accomplished at all. 
*'I'd love to write more, but I have to get up early tomorrow morning to get out to the station before 5:00 A.M. Yep, we're having another launch. But of coiu^c you'll have read about it in the papers before you get this letter." 
1946 
Jack Tcnge, Jr. 2100 Redington Rd. Hillsborough, Calif. 

REUNION REGISTRANTS DLAMOND COMMISA, FRANCIS L. FOSS, CARL F. KAREY, D.AVID J- M.ASSA, JOHN ^ 
P. McGUIRE, EDWARD T. MIESZKOWSKI, ^ PETER RICHISKI, WALTER G. SELAKOVICH, BERNARD J. SL.ATER, HENRY B. SURKAMP. 
From the Alumni Office: JACK TENGE, embroiled for the past few years in a PI1.D. program at Stanford University, has asked that PETER P. RICHISKI be designated to fill in with his duties either until he can return to activity, or mitil a new election can be held in 1966 —wliichcvcr comes first. Pete can be reached at 6 Robin PI., Old Greenwich, Conn. THOMAS E. WARD was general cliairman of the Sigma Delta Chi national awards banquet held May 18 at the Guildhall of the Ambassador West in Chicago. Awards were presented to top newsmen from all over the countrj- at the journalism fra­ternity dinner. Tom, a former Chicago newsman, has ^ worked for U.S. SiccI public relations in New York ^ and Washington and is now assistant to tlie dbtrict director of public relations in Chicago. Tlie ^ U.S. 
Steel "spokesman" in recent steel strike negotiations, Tom now lives at 3240 Lake Shore Drive in Chicago. NEIL SNYDER has been promoted to division sales manager for Indiana Bell Telephone in Indian­apolis, having worked in various sales, service and engineering capacities in South Bend, Kokomo, Muncie, etc Neil and Margaret live at 7030 N. Temple, Indianapolis, with three children, Sally, 
Patricia, and Mary. 
KENTUCKY—Part of the turnout for Father Hesburgh on Universal Notre Dame Night last spring in the Crystal Ballroom of Louisville's Brown Hotel. 
1961 
1947 
Jack Miles 3218 Bcntlcy Lane South Bend, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTRANT JAMES McXULTY. 

COME YE BACK IX JUXE TO NOTRE DAME IF YOU MISS, YOU'LL HAVE YOURSELF TO 
^ BLAME 
•TH E PHYSICAL PL.\NT'S T^OT TINIER THE DOME, REGILT, IS SHINIER 
FIFTEEN YEARS TREATS GRADS AND SCHOOL THE SAME! 
This limerick sen-cs, not only to Gil up space and thus distract you from my smiling face, but to re­mind you that the '62 reunion is slated for kickofT in less than 10 months. 
Make your plans NOW to attend June 8-10, and 

•we'll be sending an carly-bird reservation through to you soon so your local committee can the more intelligently plan a reunion you'll be proud to call your own. 
LIBRARY DRIVE The fund drive for the neu- Librar\- is undcr%\-ay, and it is pleasing to note a number of our cohorts arc serx-ing on Special Gifts Committees in their A respective areas: Los Angeles, JOE CANNAVO and ^JOH N GLAAB; St. Petersburs, DICK DEEB; Fort Wayne, DON .McDONALD; Louisville, BUD WIL­LENBRINK; Syracuse, BILL ILVSSETT; and Phila­delphia, BILL MEEH.VN. 
BENEDICT MATTHEWS 

MOOSE MATTHEWS' Christian name is, of course, Elmer, but he became a benedict after lo, these many years when he married Miss ^fa^Jo^ic 
Anac Saxtuorchto in Deal, X.J., June 3. Your secre­tary congratulates New Jersey's youngest Assembly­man in your behalf, and voices the hope Elmer and Marj will be blessed with a tidy little /Vssembly all tlieir own in their years together. 
R.\NDOM NOTES JIM MURPHY reports he recently saw JOHN P. ^YOUNG , transplanted by a degree to the class of "'48, a Lafayette, Ind., native now and editor for the John Wiley & Sons, Inc., publishing house in New York; John majored in Commerce at N.D., and is the father of four children. JOHN KELLY is now at the FBI Headquarters in IVashinglon, D^C And BOB KINNEY has returned to South Bend after a six month stay in Hatboro, Pa.; he's an insurance agent. 
AFTER ALL THESE YEARS . . . 

. . . a letter has Hltered in from JOHN THOMAS, who is Advertising Manager for the Philip Carey Mfg. Co., in Cincinnati and proves it by sending along the 1960 annual report of the firm. He also returned his questionnaire, indicating he's hoping to be with us next June. 
^ "0\'er 15 years, I've lost almost complete contact 
Pwith the gu>-s," he writes, "so a reunion is defi­nitely in order. Do cNcIiange Christmas greetings with my old roomie, FRxVXK GRIXLVLDI; JOE LANG (saw Joe in Pittsburgh coupla months ago); DICK FROETER; and BILL JANN, among others. Lots of fellows I'd like to hear from or about — but 'twould be the 'pot calling the kettle black' to say more. 
"Personally, I'm in good shape , . . married my hometown sweetheart in '49 and during our soon-to-be 13 years Jerrj' has had about as many 'presi­dencies' as she has children (six come fall!) Tltc diildren seem to have inherited her versatility and zest, and my grades in school, unfortunately. Tlicy range in age from 10 to 2 — three girls and two boys. 
"A brief note in closing to say tlianks for the fine job of reporting you're doing, tr>-ing to drag ^news out of poor correspondents like me. This is Pthc first letter I've written to a Class of '47 secre­tary since leaving Notre Dame. I'm rather ashamed to admit this, but it was really quite 'painless.' I might even do it again someday!" Do that, John. 
JAMES RICHARD LAMERE, '49 On Boston Traveler, Courageous Crusader 
Last spring a series of articles written by Richard Lamere, veteran staff reporter and rewrite man for the Boston Traveler, triumphed over 35 entries from New Eng­land newspapers to win the Traveler its second Sevellon Brown Memorial Public Service Award in the three years the com­petition has been held as a memorial to the late crusading editor of the Providence Journal-Bulletin. Dtck has been with the Traveler since graduation, for the past eight years as labor columnist. He covered the .Andrea Doria sinking, Charlcstown 
The faithful SAM ADELO reports: "On a short trip to the Caribbean area and Venezuela I ran into one of my ex-students in the Engh'sh classes I taught at N.D.: C\RLOS AM.AIZ, '54, who is now an executive with Procter &: Gamble in Venezuela. 
*'. . . happy you were able to use the picture of FRANK S2yM.ANSKI and me taken in Lima, Peru. 
"This week we had HARRY STUHLDREHER, '23, as the main speaker at the annual Junior .Achievement banquet in Fort Worth. Tlie chairman of the entire program was another Notre Damcr, 
J. LEE JOHNSON Iff, Law '-iS." Gracias por su carta, amigo! 
FATHER L.\WRENCE LeV.-VSSEUR, C.S.C., who has been superior of Holy Cross Seminary on the campus, recently was appointed superior of nearby St. Joseph Hall, a house of studies for young men with post high scliool vocation. 
Doris and BOB MULCAHY welcomed child No. 5 and son No. 4, Patrick Joseph, May 24. and the erstwhile pride of Wellington ^fcpham High Scltool reports his friends keep telling Doris she doesn't look like the mother of five and keep telling him he looks like the father of 15! 
Bob, whose law practice took him to Luxembourg early in July for an unexpected wecklong European "business holidav," reveals he visited recently with both JIM and JACK CLYNES; Jack has returned to Ithaca, N.Y., to live after a sojourn elsewhere. 
During a recent business junket to New York, Betty and I had dinner in the Village on a Saturday evening with Dot and ED CHARTIER, '49; Ed, a native South Bender, covers Manhattan for the Spalding Fibre Co., and placed third high among the linn's salesmen during the past fiscal year. 
The University's peripatetic publicist, JIM MUR­PHY, attended the national convention of the Amer­
prison riots, and scored a clear beat by 
landing at Plymouth on the Mayflower II. 
Awards are old stuff to the Traveler, 
cited for previous series exposing nursing 
home conditions and tax collection laxity, 
and for crusader Lamere, honored five years 
ago by the Newspaper Guild for a series 
on Massachusetts construction bonding 
which touched off investigations by the at­
torney general and legislature. 
The Brown award, given by A.P. editors to the paper rated as "having performed the most meritorious and disinterested pubh'c ser\*ice," lauded Dick Lamerc's stories on police negligence in the death of an alcoholic held in custody at the Cam­bridge, Mass., police station. A judging committee of Harvard's Nieman Fellows, through its chairman from the New York Timesj said: "Lamere's stories . . . showed persistence, courage and fairness in cover­ing what the newspaper accurately described as an *ugly stor>*.' The Traveler's foiur­month inquir>- brought on a grand jury investigation which in turn resulted in ac­tion to correct ^critical shortcomings' in police, hospital and jail practices." 
The series brought action from the dis­trict attorney and praise from the attorney general, who wrote Dick: "I would per­sonally like to commend you for your in­spiring newspaper efforts. .. . In single­handedly undertaking to look into the mys­terious circumstances of the death of a broken derelict arrested for drunkenness, and in unremittingly persex-ering in the face of great difficulties, you performed in the proudest tradition of a journalist's call­ing. . . . You have that quality of zeal and that burning sensitivity of injustice that stamps the true reporter." 
Dick lives in Canton, Mass., with his wife Louise and three children — Richard, 5; Lynette, 3; and Peter, going on 2. A younger brother, John, '53, is a Boston advertising salesman. 
ican College Public Relations Assn. in Den\xr earlier in the summer. 
.NEIV ADDRESSES . . . .. . are on file for BOB GRIESEDIECK. BILL GUYOL, WALT LaBERGE, PAUL LIBASSI, BOB MARKEL, BOB MEAGHER, BOB ROSE, JIM SIMON, PETE S^LALDONE, and LARRY WIN­TER. 
IN CLOSING Let me assure you you are always ivelcome here anytime you return to the campus, and especially so during the football season; prospects look cau­tiously brighter for Coach JOE KUHARICH and his staff, so if you're in to^vn for any or all of the games by all means give us a call and come on over! 
Notes after the deadline: Former classmate WILSON CHONG keeps in 
toucJi with former AicHittcture Head Prof. FRANK 
\K, KERVICK. Wilson has won many honors for his architectural innovations In Jamaica. He left 
N.D. for Illinois, wished to return but couldn't swing it. 
Cheers for ANTHONY F. EARLY. Tony has beca appointed executive veep of Leslie, CatHn & Co., Inc., in New York. The firm markets cotton goods for the Burlington Mills. .And for another Tony, ANTHONY J. GENTILE, named manager of re­search metallurgy for Ne^v. Departture division of General Motors. He lives with Mrs. Gentile and three children at 98 Jewel St., Bristol, Conn. 
The syndicated travel series of Ward Morehouse gave a big blurb to hotelman-banker JIM OURBIN in a recent feature on Tucson, Ariz. Jim was quoted 
on the ntal place of motels in the current economy. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 57 
1948 
John Defant 
George A. Pflauni, 
Publisher, Inc. 
38 \Vest Fifth Street 
Dayton 2, Ohio 
REUNION REGISTRvVNT PATRICK HENRV. 

From tlie Alumni Office: 
The Cla&s now has an expert in steroid pvrazolines in WILLIAM F. HORTON. Bill, a chemical engi­neer at N.D, with his M.S. from Miami U. (Ohio) and now a Pii.D, from the University of Delaware. 
TJic TOM DOOLEY saga continues. Tom's mother, Mrs. Agnes Doolc;', better known as *'Peg."' has continued a stream of reminiscence and anecdote about her son in a recent article in Redbook maga­zine and a furthcoming biography, '^Promises to Keep." Slie operates a St. Louis counterpart to the MEDICO office kept by Tom's brother ^lalcolm in New York. 
Congress has auiiiorlzcd and President Kennedy endorsed an appropriation of $2,500 for a gold medal honoring the hero of Laos. 
1949 
John ^Valkcr ^ Wayne. Illinois 

From the .Mumni Office: 
With conspiracy- charged against a couple of townsmen after an attempt to discredit GEORGE RATTERMAN in his bid for sheriff of Campbell County, George will apparently continue his cam­paign as the reform candidate in notorious New­port, Ky. Best wishes to George and his family in their efforts to sur\'ive a nasty attack on his reputa­tion. Here's hoping April Flowers will bring No­vember Showers — of ballots. 
CHARLES L. STAHL, staff auditor for J. C. Pennc>' Co., in Dallas, Tex.. lias been promoted to supervising auditor for the Dallas territory-. Charles has audited for Penney in St. Louis, .-Vtlanta, and Dallas, living now in the lx<;t with his wife and two young daughters. He's a native of Long Bcacli, Calif. 
1950 
Richard F. Hahn 47 Emerson Rd. Glen Rock, N. J. 
REUNION REGISTRANT MALCOLM DOOLEY. 

From the Alumni Office: 
.-\n old news clipping came to light since last year with a picture we had hoped to procure and print. Notre Dame law>'ers are taking over jn some communities like Monroe, Mich., where at-tome>- WILLIAM J. BRAUNLICH, JR., was shown sponsoring liis brother PAUL E. BRAUN­LICH, '53, for admission to the Midiigan Bar, while OLI\TR J. GOLDEN, '52, %*-3s sponsored by his cousin, ^tonroe County Prosecutor CHARLES 
J. GOLDEN, LL.B. '48. Bill's younger brother was appointed assistant prosecutor soon after the picture was taken. 
ROBERT J. SLOCUM lias been appointed assis­tant to the president of Tlie O. Hommel Co., Pittsburgh, Pa,, according to the Ceramic Forum magazine. Bob supplemented his Notre Dame A.B. with a degree from the Harvard Business School. His new duties with Hommel will include active participation in Latin American sales, and he will represent the company on the Porcelain Enamel Institute Market Development Committee. 
Another old note has EDWARD J. SNYDER, JR., as assistant to the president of North Ameri­can Car Corp. In Chicago, In charge of develop­ing and coordinating the company's public rela­tions and advertising programs. For the last few years an account executive witli a public relations firm, £d Is a native of Warren, O., and a former reporter for the South Bend Tribune. 
58 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September, 
REV. FRANCIS K. MURPHY, C.SS.R., of the Latcran University faculty, meets with American medical students at Rome's N.D. Club to prepare 
the Club-sponsored Dr. Tom Dooley Lectures 
1951 
Robert Klingcnbcrgci 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. Wayne, Indiana 

REU.VIOX REGISTRANTS THOMAS W. ADLER, DAVID J. AMBERG, JOHN C. AMRHEIX, WILLIAM F. ANHUT, DAN DAGLEY, JAMES R. BAKER, PAT BAR­RETT, DR. PATRICK J. BARRETT, FRED W. BAUMGART.\ER, THO.M.AS A. BECKMAXN, JAMES L. BEGLEY, FRANK BEITER, BRUCE 
A. BISHOP, JAMES XI. BLUM, JOH.N S. BODO­LAY, ROBERT J. BOYD, JA.MES V. BOYLE, ERWIN BRE.\DEL, LEO BRE-N.N.AN, FRED­ERICK BRICE, NORXUX BROUTf, JR., JOHN 
S. BUCKLEY, JOSEPH BURGER, EDMUND J. BURKE, RICHARD A. BURKE, REV. BASIL 
V. BURKHART, BILL UAREY, TO.M CAR­ROLL, LUCIUS F. a\SSIDY, EDWARD CECH, WALTER .M. CHRISTOPHER, ROBERT CLE­ME.NCY, CHARLES T. COHX, CLIFF .M. COL­LI.NS, DANIEL R. COXXELL, JOHN R. CORY.N, FR.\XK A. CROVO, JR., J.\MES R. CU.MMIXGS, BEXEDICT R. D.ANKO, ROBERT 
F. DARLING, EUGE.NE DcBORTOLI, JOHN D. DEEB, NICHOLAS DcFILIPPIS, REV. THOMAS DEVIXE, JAMES DOYLE, XORBERT DRZAZ­GOWSKI, EDWARD DUFFY, JOHX DUFFY, PAUL DUTER, ROBERT J. EDMONDSON, CARL B. ERFF.MEYER, PHILIP J. FACCENDA, .\NDREW .M. FAIRLIE, JR., JOH.\ R. FER­RICK, NEAL FICHTEL, ED FITZGERALD, JOHX FLE.\TZ, GILBERT FOX, BERNARD FRANZ, JAMES W. FRICK, .M.AX GABRESKI, LAWRENCE F. GALL.\GHER, JOSEPH GAL­LOW.\Y, RICHARD J. GARRITY, JACK GART­L.AND, JOHX B. GELLER, JAMES GHIGLIERI, CLETUS O. GILSOX, JR., JOHN L. GLO­BENSKY, ARTHUR H. GOLDKAMP, WILLIA.M 
G. GRIEF, DONALD C. GRIEVE, ALBERT S. GUARNIERI, DAVID GUSHURST, WILLIAM HAGAN, JOHX HALEY, HARRY H.ANIGAN, BERNARD J. HA.VK, JAMES E. H.-\NLON, WILLIAM HART\-, ROBERT HAUTER, MAR­TLN HAYES, JACK HEGARTY, JAMES HEN­XESSY, ROBERT J. HE.\SLER, STEPHEN F. HERR, RICHARD A. HERRLE, JOHN F. HIL­BRICH, ROBERT HOFF, REV. DAVID HOGAN, THO.M.AS HUBER, WILLIAM T. HUSTON, JAMES HUXFORD, STANLEY INSLEY, JOHN J.«<OWSKI, JAMES JENNINGS, R. EUGENE JOHNSO.V, ROBERT JOLIET, RAY.MOND C. JONARDI, .M.ATT KEHOE, WILLIA.M P. KELLY, THO.M.AS J. KENNEDY, JOSEPH KIENSTRA, THO.M.AS E. KIGIN, ROBERT J. KLIXGE.\BERGER, JAMES P. KOHN, WALTER KOSYDAR, JAMES A. LaCESA, JEAN La-PEYRE, A. A. LaPORTE, HAROLD LARSEN, CHARLES J. LENZ, RUSSELL LESPERANCE, THOMAS D. LOG.\.\, ARTHUR -M. LUPIN'SKI, 
J. R. .MacDOXALD, JOHN MAKER, ROBERT 
J. MAHONEY, FRED -MANSOUR, ROBERT G. XMRGET, FRANCIS J. McADAMS, JOSEPH P. McATEER, RICHARD McDONALD, THOMAS 
1961 

 on Medical Ethics. 
F. -McGEE, R,\XDY McNALLY, EDWARD ME.\GHER, JAMES P. -MELOCHE, JOHN MENDOZA, JOSEPH MERCHAK, R.\Y T. .MIL­LER, JOHN MOORE, JOH.X .MORGAN, MAURICE J. MORIARTY, JOHX MULDOOX, FRANCIS T. MULLER, GEORGE .MURPHY, GERALD MURPHY, ROBERT O. MURPHY,f3 EUGENE MYLER, JOSEPH XAUGHTOX, JOHX " XEATHERTOX, ROBERT XE.\!ES, ROBERT J. .MCKODEM, .MAURICE NOOXAX, ROBERT R. NUXXELLEY, MARTIX R. O'CO.VNOR, R,\Y­MOND F. O'CONNOR, REX O'CON-NOR, JAMES J. O'DOXXELL, CHARLES J. 0'L,\UGH­LIN, D.AVE 0'LE;\RY, E. V. O'MALLEY, JR., R4RVEY O'NEILL, L.VWRE.\CE C. PAXOZZO, CHUCK PAULER, CHUCK PERRIX, GEORGE 
E. FLETCHER, ALL,\N J. POWERS, THEO­DORE PRAHIXSKI, JAMES RAMSEY, LOUIS 
A. REICH, WILLIAM RtVG.AN, JOE RIGALI, ALBERT R. RITCHER, DOXALD RODRIGUEZ, RUDOLPH W. ROG, JOHX M. ROHRBACH, JR., GEORGE SAAD, D.WID S. SCHOEN, PHILIP H. SCHWARZ, THOM.AS SHEEH.VN, J.AMES SHEERIX, JOSEPH SHELLY, THOMAS 
L. SMITH, TOM SNYDER, EDWARD .M. SUL-^ LIVAX, 0. R. TALLEY, EUGE.XE TAYLOR,* RICHARD TEPE, P.\T TONTI, HUGH TUOHY, WALTER J. TURXER, JOHX VAXKER. RUS­SELL T. V.AN KEURE.\, HAROLD VAN TAS­SEL, JAMES F. VOGEL, JOHN VOIT, ROBERT 
M. WALLACE, ANDREW J. WAI.SH, ALLE.\ WARD, KE.\XETH WATKIXS, GEORGE W. WEBER, JAMES M. WETZEL, JOHX WHALEY, WILLIAM WHITSIDE, ROBERT WILDEMAN, ROBERT A. WILLIAMS, GERALD T. WOM­BACHER, WILLI.AM B. WOMBACHER, RAY­MOND YAXICS, JOH.X S. YOUNG. 
From the Alunin! Oflicc: JIM GILLIS, Ihc former baseball rtash and G-man, wa5 just about tbc last man you'd expect to "go Hollywood," but Jim is beaded out to tlic Coast from the Washington. D.C., area as a ^ representative of the National Association of Broad-vj casters. His new address is 1771 N. Highland, Hollvivood, Calif. 
THO.MAS L. MEYER, JR., as of June 9. is a master of medical science out of Ohio State. GEORGE J. .MURPHY, an LL.B. with the Class and president of Chicago Mutual Investment Co., has been named to the Board of Lay Trustees of St. Mar>'-of-the-Woods College near Tcrrc Haute, Ind. George is a member of various Chicago legal, securities, veterans and civic organizations, and his wife Marv" is from a three-generation St. Mary's family. 
REV. THOM.AS F. DEVINE was ordained by Bishop Boland of Newark on May 27 and offered his First Solemn Mass May 28 at St. Aloysius Churcli, Jersey City, N.J. HUGH HE.NXEDY, associate professor of English at St. Francis Col­lege, Biddleford, Me., has been nominated to head ^ the Humanities Division at the College. Hugh got V his master's at Columbia U., spent two years in Europe with armed forces intelligence, and is com­pleting work on his doctorate after advanced study 
^ t Boston U. He lives at Biddlcford Pool with his wife and three children. 
DxVNiEL R. CONNELL has opened a private law office in South Bend's Odd Fellows Building. Dan complemented his N.D. bachelor and master's degrees with an LL.B. at Indiana U. and was admitted to the Indiana Bar two years ago. He ser\*ed as a deputy prosecutor in St. Joseph Countv in 1959-60. ROBERT E. CULLIGAN has been appointed ad%xrtising supcr\'Jsor for Revere Camera Co., Chicago, 111., sub5idiar>' of Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co. Bob is responsible for advertising and sales promotion of all Revere lines of tape recorders, cameras, and projectors. Bob has been with the 3M Company advertising de­partment since 1956 and is a native of St. Paul, Minn. 
1952 
Harry L. Buch 600 Board of Trade BIdg. Wheeling, W.Va. 
REUNION REGISTIUNT JOSEPH EUSTERMAN. 

From the Alunm! Office: 
REV. JOHN KERZ REYNOLDS u ^ ordained a priest for the .•Vrchdiocese of Washington, D.C., on May 27 with Archbishop O'Boylc presiding in St. Matthew's Cathedral. He celebrated his First Solemn Mass June 4 in Immaculate Heart of Mar\' Church, Indianapolis. Father John studied at St. Vincent Seminary, Latrobc. Pa. 
GEORGE L. HEIDK/\.MP, administrative assis­tant of MacXcal Memorial Hospital, Bcrvv'^-n, 111., 
V^chieved a near-perfect scholastic average in work for his M.S. in hospital administration at North­western University. George Is the 1961 recipient of the McGaw award for oiitstanding work, a $200 honorarium and certificate. He lives at 4528 DuBois Blvd.. BrookHeld, 111. 
JOHN L.WVRENCE DAW, a partner with Xolre Darner JOHN SEE in a Kansas City architectural firm. Is the subject of an attractive booklet report to the membership of the American Institute of .Architects. Tlie booklet, entitled "John Daw goes to Washington," details his Inquiry- into the opera­tions of AIA. The pictures show that bis selection was based on more than his name's resemblance to "John Doe" and his membership In the extremely active K.C. chapter of AlA; his lovely wife, daugh­ters (Kathleen. Deirdrc and Brigld), secretary, and his own handsome self must have major photo-
f^genlc considerations. Congratulations to ROBERT P. DcORSEY, hon­ored In Washington. D.C., by Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company's annual sales conference as the compan\*'s leading agent of the year. A wel­come aboard to PATRICK J. CROWE, JR., who started with the Class but has been listed for years with the Class of '51. Pat requested identification with '52 and intends to be present for the ten-year reunion. He spent four years as a Marine Corps pilot. Is married and Itas three children, living at 4350 Shawnee Circle, Chattanooga 11, Tenn. TO.M HANRAHxVN, formerly an F.B.I, agent in Chicago, returned to Montana as assis­tant attorney general until his election last No­vember as county attorney, Helena, Mont. He's pictured this issue with other Notre Darners in Montana government. And KONRAD KRx\£MER, who took an M.A. with the Class, is now editor­
In-chief of KNA, Gennan Catholic news agenc>*. 
• having previously scr\"cd as editor of Muenster's Wcstphallan News. 
1953 
David A. McEIvain 
6717 Paxton Avenue 
Chicago 49, Illinois 

Incoming correspondence has Improved cunaider­^ably over the past three months, and I hope that "the current deadline will permit me to acknowledge 
eveiyone who has written. A letter from ED DEBOER outlined his activities over the past eight years, which Include two tours 
DR. STEPHEN J. GALL.\, '49 For Knockout Artist, Knockout of a Job 
Effective October 1st, 1961, Stephen Galla, M.D., has accepted an appointment as assistant professor of anesthesiology' and director of the Anesthesia Research Labora­tories at the University of Pittsburgh, School of Medicine and the Presbyterian Hospital. 
This position will offer unique oppor­tunities for research, teaching, and patient care in a stimulating environment. At the present time Steve's research is supported by grants from the National Heart Insti­tute, Cleveland Heart Association, Fisher Scientific Company and Ayerst Labora­tories. His long-range program involves investigation of the effects of anes­thetic agents on the blood flow and me­tabolism of the heart and brain. 
Following eight years of medical train­ing at Notre Dame and Johns Hopkins and one year of internship, Steve took a one year residency at the Johns Hopkins Hospital, and four years of residency and research training at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital and Har\-ard Medical School, Boston. He has spent the past two years as senior instructor in anesthesiology at Western Reser\*e University, Cleveland. 
Steve belongs to the American Medical Association, the American Society of Anes­thesiologists, and the Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus. His hobbies are golf­ing and electronics. He is unmarried and lives in South Hills, Pcnnsyl\*ania. 
of duty with General Electric. Currently he is in Schenectady, N.Y., in training for a district office application engineering assignment. Ed was married in 1953 and now has three children; two girls and a boy. He pxssed on news of some other classmates, including FRANK CAREY, with Sandia Corporation in Albuquerque; BILL TEOLI, JOHN D'.VNIERI, TOM HAMILTON, and JOHN WILCZYNSKI, all with GE in Schenectady. Many thanks, Ed, for the most welcome news. 
PAT LEE sent along a message that I wish I could quote In its entirety. It's a Madtson Avenue masterpiece which will unfortunately lose all its 
humor in my paraphrasing. In part: "My life is no 
different from any other maladjusted, heavily mort­
gaged pseudo-golfer fighting a banana ball and a 
duck hook all at once.'* On the serious side, Pat 
has been ^vith the Ted Bates Ad agency in New 
York for the past six years, and is an Account 
Executive on the American Chicle account . . . 
highly recommends low calorie Chiclets or delicious 
Dcntync. Pat's family is currently two boys, with 
a new baby expected in the simimer to correspond 
with a move to a new home in Maywood, N.J. Two 
other Jcrseyites in the advertising fold are BOB 
ZIER and BOB O'BRIEN. 
I attended Father ERNIE BARTELL's first sol­
emn Mass in River Forest, Illinois, in early June. 
Ernie will be returning to Notre Dame for some 
additional study, and will be looking forward to 
seeing some long-lost classmates at the football 
games next fall. GERRY KEELEY. DAVE FOX. 
DAN JAMES, TOM McNAMARA, JOE McIN-
ERNEY. LOU BOURJAILY, BOB LEE. JIM 
GEAREN, and TOM MORSCH were all In at­
tendance also. JIM RONAN was married the same 
weekend just outside Minneapolis, and will be 
settling in Philadelphia for a year of residency. 
TONY ANTHONY has abandoned New Jersey 
and now lives near Fort Worth, Texas. Tony repre­
sents Oneida Paper Products in a sales capacity, 
travelling through Texas and Oklahoma. The An­
thony family now numbers four, ages 5, 4, 2 and 1. 
Another father of four is RARVEY LUNG of Hono­
lulu, a structural engineer with Alfred A. Yee Con­
sulting Engineers. BILL KERWIN is a legal and 
financial advisor for twelve firms controlled by a 
single man in Mountain View, Cafifomia. Bill also 
has four children. CHARLIE LOCHTEFELT is a 
Construction Superintendent in San Mateo, Calif., 
specializing in Marine and Foundation Construction. 
Charlie has one child, expecting another. Another 
Californian is JIM McNITr. who Is with the Cali­
fornia Division of Mines in San Francisco as a 
mining geologist. DICK MOLOKIE is In Los 
.Mamitos, Calif., with Westinghouse as a sales engi­
neer In the .Apparatus DI\-isIon. Dick has one child, 
a boy. QUEN'TIN MISCHKE is with the Albu­
querque National Bank. 
TOM LORSON is assistant attorne>- general for the State of Kansas, and further states that he a practicing Law, politics, raising a family, getting bald, building a new home, looking for more busi­ness, and enjoying good health and a happy life with his wife and four children. BILL McCABE is vice-president of the HalHgan Funeral Home in Davenport, Iowa. DAX'E McBRIDE is an attorney with Ross, McGowan, and O'Keefe in Chicago. TIM KETT lives In Evanston. Illinois with his family of three children, and is the training program director for Allstate Insurance. LUKE MORIN is an attorney in DLxon, Illinois, with the firm of DLxon, Dex-ine, Ray and Morin. 
Another barrister from the Class of '53 is JOHN Lx\KE. who has his own practice in Dearborn, Michigan. FLOYD KUPIECKI Is a biochemist with the Upjohn Company in Kalamazoo, Michigan. During 1959-60 Floyd x^-as on a Fulbright Research Fellowship and studied in Helsinki, Finland, where he and his wife adopted two children. JIM McIN* TYRE Is an insurance Investigator with the Dean Adjustment Co. In Louisxille, Kentuck>*. One of our few remaining baclielors Is BILL KEANE, who is a C.P.-A. and is working in the tax department of Lincoln National Life Insurance Company In. Fort ^Vaj-ne, Indiana. ED McCARTHY is associated with the McCarthy Insurance Agency in South Bend, and rcccntlv spent seven days in Fort Lauderdale where he ran' into BILL M.AUS. 
JIM KEOUGH is a management consultant with Jos. A. Sedlak. Inc. In Westlakc, Ohio. Jim special­izes in the automation and mechanization of ware­house and distribution operations, Including turn-key senice. From Columbus, Ohio, BERNARD LUTH­MAN relates that he is employed by North Ameri­can A\-iatIon as an electrical engineer, and spent the last three months at White Sands Missile Range working on Radar tracking problems for the *'Road­runner" missile. Bernic Is married and has two chil­dren. BORIS MEHOFF is an architect with John L. Kline & Co., In Springfield, Ohio. JOHN LUCEY is a systems engineer with IBM in Cincinnati. JIM MURPHY is the assistant administrator of the St. Thomas Hospital in Akron, Ohio. Jim is married and the father of two. 
JOHN McHALE is a C.P.A. with Haskins and Sells in Philadelphia and spends his spare time raising his three children. WALT MURPHY re­ceived his LL.B. from Georgetown in 1956, and is presently associated with the law firm of Welch. Daily, and Welch in Washington. Walt and his wife Joan have two boys. After a tour in the Navy, CHARLES LAVALLY teamed up with American 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 2961 59 
Standard Industrial Division in Baltimore, and has been with them since as a sales engineer. 
One of our number is developing future Notre Dame material at St, Anthony's High School in Jcrsc>- City, NJ . JOHN MAHONEY is Phy Ed teacher there, as well as basketball and baseball coacli. John has one more to go for his own cage team, haWng four boys. SOMERS McTEIGUE is sccrelar>" of McTciguc & Co,, in New York, a manufacturer of fine jcwclrx'. Somcrs lives in Larclimont and has a family of two. Dr. DICK LOLLA has his pri%-atc dental practice in Brick Town, X.J. DAN MURPHY has two careers, one iv-atcliing over his five junior Murphys, and when time uill allov*- he is also an Attorney in Plainficid, 
y.J. STAN KANOPKA has moved hh mound and home plate to Nortli Arlington, New Jersey, where he is manager of cost accounting with ITT—Systems Communications. P,\UL H.ARRINGTON reports from Mountainside, N.J., that he is pursuing an Army career, and is currently awaiting orders for reassignment. 
From what I can gather, anyone requiring medi­cal attention In the Philadelphia area should be well cared for. Dr. BOB DEAK has just reopened Iiis ofHce there after a tour with the Air Force, and thus joins in competition with Drs. JOHN SlUR-RAY, MART\* BRENNAN, and JIM RONAN wlio are already battling sickne&s and disease in tlic City of Brotherlv Love. 
DAN HARDIN sent along news of PAUL GAB­LER, whose wife recently presented lum with a baby girl, their second cliild. Paul is with the Foley Manufacturing Co., in St. Paul, Minnesota. 
With that I exhaust my supply of gossip and witty comments for this edition, and must race this effort to the mailbox in a fedilc attempt to meet a dead­line already two weeks past. Hope to hear from the rest of you In the immediate future. 
From the Alunini Office: 
DR. ROBERT E. DEAK has concluded Iils re­quired Service as Medical Officer with the .Air Force at Spokane and moved to Pliiladelphia, Pa., where he will resume private practice. Bob was an active member of the Notre Dame Club of Spokane and tlic presence of him and his wife will be missed at tlic Club's \-arious functions. 
DO.NALD J. CARBONE, Office of Civil and De­fense ^fobilIzation planning officer who joined the agcnc>-'s staff at Battle Creek, Mich., Operational Headquarters in 1956, was nominated for the I96I William .A. Jump Memorial .Award for '*€L\cmplarj" acliicvenjfnl in public adnjjnistralioji." Don h now stationed at OCDM National Headquarters in Wash­ington, D.C., and played a major role in the de­velopment of the national civil defense plan to win nomination for the ciWI service award. HARRY W. EIKENBERRY iias been named Wcc-presidcnt in charge of operations for Frocdtcrt Malt Corp., Mil­waukee, 'Wis. Harrj-, a Law Scliool alumnus, joined Frocdtert after vvorking in Minneapolis and BufTalo for International Milling and Pillsburj' Co. DAVE HA\'ES' aunt reminds us that the sculptor has won a $1,000 Chicago Art Institute prize plus Fulbright and Guggenheim fellowships for two years' study in Europe. Dave was on campus recently to confer with FATHER ANTHO.NY LAUCK and other friends, TOM MATEY, a steel salesman now, gave a flashing performance in the Indianapolis District golf tournament, ROBERT F. McCOV, a Class LL.B., attorney In Dow Chemical's legal department since graduation, has transferred to Dow Chemical Internationa] Ltd. S.A., as resident attorney for European operations. AVTuIe vvith Dow in Midland, Mich., Bob was very active in legal, educational and community affairs. He left for Switzerland vritli his 
wife, two daughters and two sons in early summer^ 
REV. R. THOM.AS CARL SCHAUB, O.P., w^s ordained June 3 in St. Rose Prior>*, Dubuque, Iowa, and offered his First Solemn Mass in St, Tliomas More Church, Munster, Ind.. June 4. ROBERT E.\fMET BITTNER won an if.B.A. in June from Western Reserve U. in Cleveland. 
PAUL E, BRAUNLICH, sponsored by his brother Bill, '50, in joining the MIcliIgan bar more than a year ago, was appointed assistant prosecutor for ^fonroc County, ifich., shortly thereafter and fias been handling felonv cases before a jury ever since. Congratulations to EDWARD JOSEPH ERBACH­ER, JR., whose marriage to Mar>' Grace \Valsh was set for July I in New York, 
'53 Men on the Move: PHILIP J. GOTUACO, on his second trip to the States and first to the campus since graduation, submitted a new address 
— Mahogany Products (Phil.), Inc., Butuan City, Agusan, Philippines — and wTotc; *'Just thought I'd like to let my buddies know that I'm still alive and I came back to the campus during the Easter holidays, I'm married, have four kids and shall 
REV. THOMAS McAVOY, C.S.C., University archUist, leads a seminar discussion on Church and State under the inspiration of the *Sublime 
Tradition^' at the Notre Danie Club of the Eternal City, Rome, Italy. 
have more." Phil was Involved in the deal whcrebv the Manila N.D. Club furnished FATHER PAT PE\TON*5 Family Theater in HolK-wood. AVIL­LIAM BERRY has moved from Milwaukee to 411 Dodge St., Wcit Lafayette, Ind. He's going to Purdue on a Ford Foundation felJovv3h)p to work on a doctorate in electrical engineering. Finally, GEARY T. BECKER has been transferred to the New York office of B. J. Van Ingen & Co., In­vestment banking firm, and has moved to 42 Tucka­lioe Rd., Eastchester, X,Y., with his wife and five clilldren — Mike, 5; Kevin, 4; Mar>-, 3; Brian, go­ing On 2; and Ann, 3 months. 
1954 
Milton J. Bcaudine 76 East Court Dr. Decatur, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTRANTS ROBERT McGLYNN, A. J. MUTH, JR. 

T\ic old adage **.Vo nciv:s is good news" doesn't apply to class secretaries engaged in writing "ncws^-" articles. So far I've pleaded and com­plained and now comes the threat. Unless I receive some mall soon I will be forced to fill forthcoming space witli stories about my tv^-o tremendous cliil­dren — and you know how a father can talk, espe­cially when his children ARE exceptional. Please, dear vrives, if you can't move your husbands, write me a short note yourselves. 
Had a nice letter from DICK McNAMARA, 2437 
N. Meridian St., Indianapolis, Ind. He and liis wife Peggy had their second boy, Terence Joseph, on Marcli 18. Dick reporu that CHARLIE WAGNER is doing well as a self-employed wholesale lumber broker, Charlie has a boy and two girls. JOHN KOSCO, 156 Maurus St., St. Mar^-s, Pa., writes that since leaving N.D. he received his master de­gree in plastics engineering from Princeton and his doctorate in metallurgy* from Penn State In 1958, Since then, John has toiled as a research metal­lurgist for the Stackpole Carbon Co., in St. Mark's. John and his wife, the former Mary Mullanc>-, have three clilldren—-Tom, 4; Mary Pat, 2; and Ajinc, 1. John roomed uith PAUL .\fARRONE while at Princeton. Paul was working on hts masters degree in aero engineering. Paul is now with Cornell Labs in Buffalo, and he and his wife, Claire, have four children, John further reports: DICK EHR is out of the Navy and tvorking in Aflltvaukce, ED JkfXLOTA has jumped from Naval aviation to commercial aviation. GEORGE KOLAS,A has been married about a year now and is teaching on Long Island after a tour in the Army and a crack at pro base­ball. JOHN FALLON is in the Coast Guard and FATHER PAUL JOHNSON, who was with us at N.D, until our junior year, was ordained in the Dominican Order and is in cliargc of the Newman Club at the University of New Mexico in Albu­querque. (Tlianks John!) 
Mrs. BOB WILLIAMS (Bless you) writes that she and Bob now have four children. Bob is with the Layne-Northcrn Co., Mishawaka, Ind. Their fourth child, Midiacl Joseph, was bom on February 1. 
Anne and BILL MEYER couldn't overcome a sclieduling problem. Their son, Edward Arthur, ar­rived just five hours and seven minutes too late to ^ be a I960 income tax deduction. (That's the way it* crumbles — cookie-wise), BOB RfVYMOND took the big step and married Joyce Joan Belts on May 13, 1961, at Palatine, Illinois. Bob Is with V.O.P, (Ed. Note: Vegetable Oil Products?) In DcsPIaincs, Illi­nois. 
PHIL BREHM in a recent letter reports that he Is without spouse still and practicing law In Green Bav, Wisconsin, Other *54ers In Green Bay arc JIM PERRON, who has a clothing store; KEN BOULEY, who is with the A. C. Nielsen Company; and C;\RL FAR/\H who is associated with his brother In the retail food and LIQUOR business. 
A girl. Marv Clare, made the scene at the GROSS PIETSCH's on Xfay 23rd. After 3 boys Margo had about given up hope. John Is still grumbling about having a "Girl" in the family, 
JACK PITTAS stopped in the other day afterf being sworn in to the Illinois Bar. We had dinner, and I'd like to report that Jack's appetite and thirst arc doing fine. Talk about appetite! ED **XED" SEIM was here over Memorial Day and we really put away the beer. Just like old times. 
By now all tickets for the N.D.-Navy game liavc been sold out, Hope you got yours because there's going to be a party. (Lounge in O'Shaughnessy after the game,) As mentioned In previous articles, for this to be a smashing success the "word" must be passed, DICK PILGER has been working hard and the only ingredient missing to assure a success is you! Come! 
It is with much regret that I must inform you that our classmate, DAVE MEAGHER, was killed in an airplane accident June 7, I96I. Dave was fly­ing a small plane to the West coast for two weeks Marine Reserve training and had trouble over Texas. Dave and his wife Pat resided at 23 Wlson .Ave.,^ S.E., St, Cloud, ^tinn. Let's not forget him in our prayers. 
From the Alumni Office: 
EDMUND L. WHITE is now manager of market research for Smith-Corona Marcliant Inc., respon­sible for the conduct of all research activity on new product situations, in the New York offices. Ed's plans include marriage to Priscilla Carol Muel­ler in St, Mar>-'5 Church, Port Chester, N.Y., July 13, and residence at 133 £. Columbus Ave., Uln'te Plains, N.Y. WlLLIANf R. BIERMAN received an M.B.A, at the summer commencement at Wash­ington U., St, Louis, 
JAMES F. KELLEHER, special public relations assistant to the U.S. postmaster general, returned to his old p.r. haunts in South Bend to address a state convention of postmasters In June, He out­lined a plan to make earlier deliver)* of volume^ business mail. DANIEL E. MOTZ has been pro-^ motcd to assistant manager of the advertising de­partment for Seiberling Rubber Co,, Akron, O. Dan has been with the firm since 1959. A past 
60 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 2962 
0)fficer of the Akron N.D. Club, lie lives with wife Mary Callierine and four children at 496 Orlando Ave., Akron. 
1955 
Paul Fullmer 
7344 N. Ridge Ave. 
ChiragOj Illinois 

Well, by the time this hits print I hope that the Irish arc well on their way to an unbeaten season 
• and that ever>'body in the class has an opportunity to visit the campus and sec at least one game. 
As I wrote last time, I sort of had a feeling that DON YECKEL had a stranglehold on the title of "Big Daddy" — DICK BEEMAN, FRANK BURKE, JACK GITS, ROY BELKNAP, and the rest of you with four notwithstanding. Don's pretty wife, Jcanncttc, dropped me a line and reported tliat they now have SIX! OK, Gentlemen, that's the new-record. Anyone want to challenge Don? Just drop me a note and report on your progress. Tlic Veckels have three girls and three boys. Incidentally, Don is currently stationed at the Marine Corps Recruit Depot in San Diego, and likes it very much. I know many of the gals read this column—as Jeanncttc Vcckcl docs—and I wish they would lake 10 minutes out to report on friend hubby if he Just doesn't find time to sit down and report his current family 
^and business status. 
" Tlie Bdknaps (tclcomed their fourth diild just before Roy left to head the McDonnell Company olTicc in Detroit. Received a note from AL COWLES in German­town, Tenn., who reports that Alfred Leroy Cowlcs III made his debut on March 7. Al and Colleen now have a boy and a girl. CHARLIE NAJJAR came up from Birmingham to be godfather for the bounc­ing baby boy. 
BOB DEBREY, who is stJIJ fighting it as baclielor here in Chicago, recently picked up his masters from Illinois Institute of Technology- and is doing product design research for a Chicago firm. Bob tells me that FRtVNK FLORIAN got married recently and is climbing the executive ladder in the IVest­inghouse finance department. 
JOE TONINI, who is a project engineer with the ^MTcro Switch Division of Minneapolis Honeywell with headquarters in Frecport (111.), ran into TOM Jx\MES this spring. Tom is a salesman for Union Carbide. Tom, I understand, lives in Elmhurst (III.), my old hometown, with his wife and three cliildren. And I never did run into him! His address is 550 Park Ave., Elmhurst. Joe's Is 103^^ E. Empire, Frecport. FRED MAROON writes from Miami where he admits that he was a regular correspondent with 
TO.M O'MALLEY for the first couple of years, and then slackened ofT until yours truly took over this year and Fred decided to get back into the act. How about you? Fred and his ^vifc, Shirley, had a baby boy in March. His name? — why, Fred M. Maroon IV, of course! 
My Miami correspondent wonder^ if this column has reported the marriage of KALEEL G. SAL> LOUM and Barbara Ann Thomas of Gulfport, where thc>- now arc residing. 
Fred also reports that ELLIS JOSEPH married Guitta Cannon last year and then returned to N.D. for graduate work. His wife taught school in South Bend. If anyone visits Miami, Fred hopes that you will call him so that he can give you the scoop on the local N.D. club and its activities. His phone number is HI 3-8774. He also wants to pass along a note to AL Sl'ARSHAK, who I guess owes him a letter. Fred's address is 2401 Coral Way, Miami. 
I have notes from the alumni office that the fol­
lowing fellows have moved, and I wish you would 
drop me a line so that I can pass the word along 
to the rest of the class: 
JI.M PITCAVAGE moved from Waterbury, Conn., to Syracuse, N.Y.; JOHN DEFFLEY from Lowell, Mass., to Wichita, Kan.; TO.M ROME from Ards­ley. N.Y., to Los Angeles; TO.M MARSHALL from Serena, III., to Wilmington, Del.; CLAUDE RENE from Bristol, R.I., to West Hartford, Conn.; JOE SHILTS from South Bend to Sacramento; RON SERSEN from Chicago to Pompano Beach (luckv guy!); DARYL CRISWELL from South Bend to Ypsilanti, Mich.; JOHN KENNEDY from Green­wich, Conn., to Philadelphia; ED STENGER from Huntington, Mich., to Park Forest, IJI.; DICK FARRELL from Miami to Atlanta; TED L/VUGH­LIN from Decatur, Ga., to Arlington, Va.; PHIL WILKEN from Decatur, x\la., to Raleigh, N.C : TIM NORTON from Nebraska City, Neb., to LaPuentc, Calif.; and JOH.V BLx\SIC from Johns­town, Pa., to Oak Forest, 111. OK, Gentlemen, re­port! 
DICK BEEMAN and his wife. Sue, packed up and got away from their brood of four Iierc in Chicago and went east for the June wedding of CHUCK COLLINS and the fonner Eleanor Maher. 
Another June groom was TOM DORWIN, my cx-roomie, who married the former Carol Roche in Milwaukee on June 17. He got sweet revenge on me by making me dress up in a monkey suit after I had given him a similar detail at mv Avedding in April. 
JERRY BR.\NSFIELD is another bachelor who has finally sevn the light. He and Maureen Kelly will be married in September. 
According to the grapeWnc, JOHN AMAN and the former Elizabeth Kolterer were married this spring, but I don't have the details. How about a note, John? 
Ainong those who have picked up their medical degrees recently are BILL O'TOOLE (Baltimore), WARREN GIDDENS (Cleveland Heights), DON GALLAGHER (Santa Barbara). FORST BROWN (Cleveland Heights), JA.MES CENTRILL (New York), and W.WNE PETERNEL (Cincinnati). 
Among the professional students in the class. 
JOHN ROGERS has left San Diego and is back In Dallas. SYDNEY GALE has switched from West­inghouse to Bausch 8c Lomb Optical Company in Rochester, N.Y. 
JIM EHRET, who has been flying jets aroimd the Pacific the past fe\>r months, came home to the Windy City on leave last weelc, but be soon wiU head back to duty. Jim likes the Navy and was looking for a few recruits, but he was talking to the wrong guy — DICK BURKE, who is a newly­wed. 
I hope that BERT METZGER drops me a line now that he is established in the legal field out in the great Northwest. BERNIE SKfYTH took over the N.D. Club in Spokane in short order, Bcrnie already is vice-president of the club after only a year. All of us in Chicago miss big Bcrnie. 
Here arc se\'eral more guys whom I would like to hear from: BILL KREFS, BOB RUSSELL, FRANK BEARDSLEY, JOHN RICKUNG, ED OCHWAT, MILLARD BATTLES. DAVE WEID­MANN, GEORGE DONAHUE, JOHN TRAMON­TINE, CARL ROHR, CHARLIE BURNS, ED YOHON, BOB GERVAIS, JOHN SENNETT, TO.M HARTZELL, JOE BALOBECK, MIKE HANLEY, BOB McGRATH, and PAUL FAZ. ZONE. 
One of mv neighbors is a slimmed-down BOB "MOOSE" WING, who is with IBM. I think he spends all his time playing baseball. 
lUY KENNEDY now lives in suburban Wauke­gon and covers the northern suburbs for the Chi­cago Sun-Times. Ray has worked on several of the paper's major stories. He and his wfe. Patsy, had a baby boy about six months ago. 
BOB Dx\HLEN has moved to Chicago and is in the downtown office of Penn Mutual Life Insurance Co. 
MIKE WARD, who is with a Chicago public relations firm, completed his first semester of Jaw school. That's some trick after five years and three kids! 
GEORGE VOSMIK is living in Cincinnati, ac­cording to Mike, and now has two little girls. DAN HEALEY is deep in the heart of Texas, as is HUGH SCH.-\EFER, Avho recently ^von a scholar­sliip to the S.M.U. law school. 
D.WE SCHEELE» BOB GOSDICK, JOHN SMITH, MIKE ELLIS, RUDY GENDER, ED VOGT, AL KAELIN, JOHN JAHODA, DON Si\N"rSCHI, BOB McAULIFFE, GENE LESMEZ, JIM CLARK, ED DEMPSEV, JIM KORTE, JIM BAKER, GREG &fcCORMACK, DON LUECKE, JIM WALSH, BILL ARNOLD, JOHN GOLOB. PHIL CLARKE, BOB KILANSKE, ARNIE CURNYN, BILL CHUSTAK, BOB HAIDINGER, JACK GIBBONS, JIM O'MALLEY, BILL DWYER, JOE O'BRIEN and BOB QUIMBY —where are vou and what arc you doing \«th youiseI\*es these days?! 
Another relatively new doctor that I forgot to list above is DAVE DISCHER, whom I met at a high school reunion this summer. Dave is working ^vith the government and doing quite a bit of traveling, so you might have htm pop up in your area. 
HOLY CROSS PRIESTS in 1961 ordination class arc Notre Dame men by a ratio of 13 to four: (front row, L-r.) Rev. Joseph 
S. Pcixotto, San Francisco (Portland U.); Rev. William A. Toohey, '52, Racine, Wis.; Rev. Robert T. Muridiy, Washington, 
D.C. (Catholic U.); Rev. Santo J. Ciatto, '57, Washington; Rev. Joseph W. Koma, *57, Palmcrton, Pa.; Rev. Maurice E. Amon, '57; Scottsbluff, Neb.; Rev. Robert G. Simon, '57, St. Charles, Mo.; Rev. Donald F. Gucrtin, *57, Upland, CaL; (2nd row, l.-r.) Rev. Joseph B. Simons, '57, Whittier, Cal.; Rev. William J. Muha, Bangor, Mich., (U. of Michigan); Rev. 
I Robert A. Bautista, '57, Lake wood, Cal.; Rev. Thomas E. Chambers, '56, University Heights, O.; Rev. Robert J. Malonc, '57, West Hartford, Conn.; Rev, Thomas F. McNally, '49, Winnetka, HI.; Rev. Ernest J. Bartell, '53, River Forest, ID.; Rev. Joseph 
L. Walter, Braddock, Pa. (Duquesne U.); and Rev. Dennis J. Frecmal, '57, Cleveland. Fathers Murphy and Malone were assigned to Holy Cross missions in Uganda, Africa. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 6t 
By the time you read this column, Christmas will be just around the comer. So I have a suggestion — put me dou-n on >'our Christmas card list and clue me in on your current doings. Tliat %vay you can kill two birds with one stone! Give that mailman a stooped back, gentlemen, with that Christmas mail. 
From the Alumni Office: 
N.D. now has two famous Hesburghs. Father Ted's younger brother Jim has been elected cor­porate sccretar%' of Twin Coacli Company, BulFalo, N.Y., retaining his job as assistant to the executive \ice-prcsident. With an M,B..-\. from Har\-ard Business School, Jim is married to the former Mar>- Kelly, and they have three children, fn academic circles, WILLIAM A. REALE now has the degree of Juris doctor from Ohio State U. and ANTHONY J. EVERS, a grad school classmate instructor in electrical engineering, has a Ford Foundation fellowship to study engineering educa­tion at Purdue. 
1956 
John P. Dcasy 5697 N. Lincoln Ave Chicago 45, Illinois 

REUNION REGISTRANTS JOHN A. ADAMS, RICHARD ALLISON, KEN­NETH ANDRE, THOMAS ARNOLD, WALTER ARNOLD, THOMAS G. BENNETT, KENNETH BERGERON, ROLAND BERNHOLD, PAUL BERRETTINI, FR,\NCIS X. BE\TAGH, JOSEPH 
G. BILL, JR., JOHN E. BOWER, JAMES P. BRENNAN, JOHN W. BRENN;\X, LUKE BREN­NAN, PAUL BRIENZA, JOHN BRODERICK, RICHARD P. BROWTC, PETER C:\NNON, ANGELO aiPOZZI, F«.\NK &\PPELLIXO, THOMAS CAPLET, BERNARD aARDELL,\, DONALD CARLIN, EDWARD P. &\RLIN, ROBERT A. a^RRANE, JACK a\SEV, JAMES 
C. CENSKY, RICHARD C. CL.\RK, THOMAS OOMER, JOHN F. COOXEy, WILLIAM G. COPELAND, EDWARD C. COSGROVE, DON­ALD COSTELLO, JAMES G. COSTELLO, JAMES R. COSTELLO, RICHARD D. CROW­LEY, JOHN E. CUPPER, CHARLES CUSHWA, JOHN P. DE:\SY, JOE DONOVAN, JAMES C. DOWDLE, GEORGE J. DURKIN, HARRY DUTKO, JOHN OUTER, GEORGE L. EDGING­TON, VINCENT EILERS, JOHN C. ENGLER, JACQUES FIEHRER, JOSEPH FINN, JAMES R. FrrZSIMMONS, JAMES E. FUVNAGAX, WIL­LUM H. FOX, JOHN E. GALLAGHER, JEROME GATTO, DAVE GRANGER, J. S. HAGAN, DUANE (BONES) HAMMES, WIL-UAXr F. HAWK, JOE HENNESSY, JAMES R. HLAVIN, THOXUS K. HUBBARD, H/VROLD 
J. KALBAS, PAUL E. KAMSCHULTE, PAUL KEARNEY, WILLIAM V. KEARNEY, JOHN KEGALY, LAURENCE R. KENNEDY, MI­CHAEL J. KILEY, BERNARD G. KOSSE, JAMES KRAMER, PHILIP KRAMER, JAMES 
C. KREBS, GERALD J. L,\PEYRE, RAYMOND 
E. LEMEK, LEO LINBECK, JR., DO.VALD LOGAR, JAMES E. .MACK, JOHN P. MADI­GAN, LOUIS J. .M.\L.WDRA, JOHN F. MANIOX, JAMES A. MASON, JR., JOHN T. MASSMAN, NICHOL.4S NAVIGLLVNO, REV. J. DAVID XUX, P.WRICK F. .McCARTAN, 
JAMES MCCARTHY, ROBERT MCCARTHY, VICTOR L. .\lcFADDE.V, RICILVRD L. MEAGHER, JAMES MEHARY, JAMES -MENSE, RICHARD T. MERKEL, RICHARD A. .MIL­LER, DO.N'ALD J. .MOSER, ROBERT S. MUL­DOON, .MARTLV E. .MULL.ARKEY, THO.MAS 
W. MULLARKEY, JR., JAMES W. MURPHY, TIMOTHY MURPHY, P.AUL H. NOL.\ND, REV. JAMES M. 0'BRIE.N, EUGE.NE P. O'CO.VNOR, JOSEPH S. O'CONNOR, MATTHEW F. O'CO.V­NOR, ROGER O'REILLY, DA.VIEL F. 0'SH&\, JOHN H. OWE.V, VIRGIL PAIVA, R,\Y.\10.VD 
L. PAPAY, J.\CK PATZ, DONALD PIZZUTEL­LO, JOHN C. POLKING, JOSEPH POY.\TON, DANIEL C. QUIGLEY, RICHARD QUILLIN, THO.MAS S. QUINN, JOHN V. REILLY, JAMES T. REVORD, ROBERT RICHARD, AN­THONY ROCCO, JA.MES ROSENHEI.MER, JAMES RYTHER, NORMAN A. S.WOLSKIS, DONALD T. SCHAEFER, JAMES J. SCHEN­KEL, RAMON SNYDER, JAMES SPICA, .MAT­THEW STAHL, WILLIAM H. STOTZER, .MA­SON SULLIVAN, FRANK TIGHE, WALTER J. TROHAN, JR., PAUL A. UEBELHOR, JOSEPH 
1. VIANI, WILLIA.M WELDO.V, ROBERT J. WELSH, JR., DAVID J. WENTLING, DALE E. 
WHITE, KENNETH P. WINKLER. ' 

62 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 
IS" | > ^ 
I 
ROBERT H. MOONEY, JR., '52 As Engineer Head, a "Method" Toastniaster 

Last year Bob Mooney was appointed director of methods engineering and Plant Layout for Oldsmobilc Division of General Motors Corporation, and this year he has the additional responsibilities of an N.D. Club president Bob joined Oldsmobilc after graduation as a junior methods engi­neer. Successive steps to methods engineer, senior methods engineer and supervisor of methods engineering led to his present position. 
Bob is a member of the Michigan Society of Professional Engineers, the Lansing In­dustrial Executives Club, St. Therese Parish, the Lansing First Friday Club and is now president of the Notre Dame Club of Lansing. He has ser\xd as director of the Dale Carnegie Course and is a past member of Toastmasters International. 
Soon after graduation from Notre Dame, Bob married a home town girl. The Mooncy's now reside at 2329 Cumberland Road in Lansing with their seven sons. Bob III, Tom, Pat, Dennis, .-Vl, Mark and Peter, and the latest addition to the family, daughter Jeanne .Ann. 
Bob still finds time to take active part in diocescan and parish financial drives as well as being a member of the Special Gifts Committee for the present Notre Dame drive. 
1961 
From the Alumni Oflicc; % 
Between politics and courtship, Hon. JOHN DEASY has not found time to report on the highly successful five-year reunion, shown pictorially in this issue, but will probably submit a detailed cyc­ivitness account next issue. 
MICHAEL F. SAVIANO completed bis intern­ship in Philadelphia's Nazareth Hospital July 1 and begins a two-year stretch in the Air Force. Details on his assignment should come through later. 
W.ARREN CHARLES KELLIHER is now a mas­ter of diemical engineering, having followed up his N.D. degree at Brooklyn Polytedinic Institute. 
JOHN S. SMITH is now a full sales rep with Scott Paper Company's retail sales div*ision. Living at 160 Hilderbrand A\*e., Sandy Springs, Pa., John joined Scott as a sales trainee in 1958, went to Atlanta as a salesman and became a senior sales-i man before his promotion in the Chester, Pa., area. 
1957 
Donald J. Barr 463 Briar Place Chicago 14, Illinois 

Jack E. Casey 
Chicago Show 
Printing Co. 
555 ^^\ Fifth Ave. 
New York I7,N. Y. 
REUNION ilEGlSTR.\XTS 

PHILIP BRADTKE, GEORGE BROUCEK, R^VY 
DREXLER, WILLIAM ENGEL, RENO J. 
MASINI. ^ 

rrozi the Altiniiti Office: 
With Casey and Barr apparently on \'3calion, we'll have to rely on press releases and graduation announcements to fill out this edition. 
Among commencements: DONALD W. GERTH, a chemical engineer with the Class, now has an ir.B.A. from Washington University, St. Louis; it*s now Doctor JOHN FRzVNKLIN SEIDEN­STICKER, witli an M.D. from Western Rcser\c in Cleveland; another iLD. is ROBERT X. WIL­LIAMS, graduated from Georgetown and intern­ing at Mercy Hospital, Buffalo, N.Y., married to the former Karlcen Davis; another M.D. from Gcoiscio\i-n is THOMAS R. NICKNISH of Uiica, N.y., interning at Mercy Hospital, Alhany, X.Y.; Dr. JAMES A. WALSH, graduated from Jefferson g Medical College, Philadelphia, is now interning at " the U.S. Na\-al Hospital, Newport, R.I.; EUGENE PAUL KOPP of Charleston, \V. Va., Is now a lawyer with an LL.B, from West Virginia U.: THOMAS R. ECKMAX, U.D., was graduated from Northwestern Medical School, and ROBERT 
H. MAIER has his M.D. from U. of Colorado Scliool of Xfcdicinc; another Georgetown doctor is FR.\NCIS MICHAEL KELLEY, xvho will intern at St. Mar%**s Hospital, Roclicster, N.Y.; the only dentist reported is FRANCIS T. LUTZ with a 
D.D.S. from the Georgetown Scliool of Dcnlisto'j married to the former Antoinette Domino of Wil­mington, Del., where he plans to practice after two years in the Armv. And a summer school classmate, SISTER M. ALICE MARIE FOX, B.VJif., supplemented her Notre Dame M.S. with a Ph.D. in biology from St. Louis U. 
LUKE F. CARRABINE has been appointed as M practice engineer in the tube finishing and ship-" ping department of U.S. StecPs National Tube Division plant in Gary, Ind. At graduation Luke started training with National Tube and was a 
^process engineer before his promotion. He resides ^vit h his wife MikcM at 76 E. 66th Place, Crown Point, Ind. 
Pigskin pro PAU L HORN^UN^G is on the per­sonal appearance trail, having been seen in June as featured guest at a fashion show, of all things, in Fort Wa>-ne, Ind. 
THOM/\S L. JUDGE is shown tliJs issue with a team of X.D. men in Montana government. Tom worked in industrial sales and public relations for the National Starch Products and Chemical Com­pany until 1938 when he entered the Army as a sha\'ctail. After his tour of duty he spent two years in advertising with the Louisville Courier-Journal and did graduate work at the U. of Louis­ville. He went back to Montana in I960 and founded Judge Advertising and Public Relations. Filing for slate representative the same year, he was elected in Xovcmber. 
1958 
Arthur L. Roulc, Jr. 1709 Indiana Avenue 
LaFortCj Indiana 

Greetings one and all. It*s a beautiful June after­noon here in Indiana, as I sit down in front of the trusty typewriter and bang out a few lines of news. Unfortunately this column must begin on a sad note—I must report the death of another of our classmates — JIM ARSEXE.\ULT was killed when his plane crashed in the South China Sea. Jim went through Na\y OCS, receiving his com­mission in September of 1959. At the time of his death, Mav 7, 1961, he was stationed on the U.S.S. 
[pKcarsargc, an aircraft carrier. FATHER BOAR^L\^' ofTercd a Mass for Jim on June 2, at the request of the class. In addition, Jim's name was added to the list of our deceased classmates for whom the Annual Class of 1958 Memorial Mass was offered early in June. /\s announced earlier, this memorial Mass will be odcred each June 1 as a permanent remembrance of those of our classmates who have passed away. For those of you who have missed the previous death announcements, here is the list of our departed brothers: JIM ARSEN*E.\ULT, JACK DOYLE, BOB WOJCIK, PETE BARRETT, BOB CUNNINGHAM, TOM BARTLEY, BILL R.\CHAC, TOM SULLIVAN, and ROGER KENNEY. Please remember them In your prayers. 
Before continuing ^^'ith the news. I would like to make an announcement. As mentioned in the Ixst issue, we arc planning an Informal cLiss reunion for 
.0the 28th of October, following the N.D.-North­wcstern game. You will receive furtlier word as to location — trv' to make it. 
Your secretary- is happy to report that he has finally terminated his academic career, having re­ceived his LL.B. in June. As it looks now, I will probably be with Uncle Sam for as long as three years (in the Judge .Advocate General's Corps of the Air Force)—conn-quently plans for the future arc still up in the air. (No pun intended). 
During the weekend of comniencrment at N.D.. I ran into BILL AfcKEEVER, married and occupied as a stock dealer on Wall Street; PAT HEFFER­N.AN, also a budding barrister; HENRY ZASG, an executive with WJBC Radio in Bloomington. Illinois; JACK REVORD; and JACK LIESKE. All of the above named gentlemen were looking, and apparently doing, well. 
J JIM MARSTON wa> recently In this neck of the woods and he provided the following news. Jim is a Sales Engineer witli Automatic Electric S>*5lems of Chicago. .-\s previously reported he is married and has one daughter. He informs us that BOB SHAN­NON was married on July 1. 1961 to Miss Nancy Prior in New York. And DICK O'BRIEN received Ills Afastcr's degree In fine arts from y.D. in Jtinc. Now to the correspondence: JOHN DRU.MM writes from Brooklyn with the news that he Is now at Fordham Law School with TOM HILL, JOE McCUE, DON REILLY, and JOHN GL/WIN. Before enrolling at Fordham, John (Drumm) spent 6 months with the Army M.P.'s as a lieutenant. For sustenance while learning the law, John works part-time with United Air Lines where he enjoys free travel and pretty stewardesses. Further Informa­tion forthcoming from Mr. Drumm is that ED 
^KILLE is in insurance in Brooklyn; JIM ANSBRO, 
fDON MOLL, JOHN McCARRV, and JOE BR.\DY are still in the Navy. LARRY KOSS Is rumored to be working in U'asliington, and GARY UTTDRA is x%'itlt the Naxy In California. 
FRr\NK J. WEiMHOFF, '41, (left) vice-president and public relations director for Indianapolis' Caldwell, Larkin & Sidcncr-Van Riper, Inc., accepts the Silver Anvil a^rard, highest national public relations honor, from awards chairman Arthur Reef at the American Public Relations Assn. 1961 convention. 
A note from Green Bay, AVIsconsIn, reveals that JIM ZILLES is now employed at Morley-Murphy Co. of Green Bay. Jim was married to Beverly Fowler of South Bcnd^ on June 7, 1958; they now have a son, Tinimy, bom in April of 1959, and a daughter, Tcrri Ann, born In December of 19()0. Jim finished his Na\'y tour in July of 1960. 
Wedding News: DON RONEY was wed to Miss Tcri Lynn Peterson on the 29th of ilav, lOGly in Salt Lake City. 
W.-VLT SMITHE recently dropped us a line from Phoenix, where he Is now working for General Elec­tric as a sales engineer for the Computer Depart­ment. Walt also reported the reappearance of the stork at the Siuilhc household. Daughter Cindy Lou arrived in Febniar>- of 1961. Tlie first Smithc off­spring, Wally III. was born July 15, 1959. Other news: GENE KERVJN is in the advertising business in Dallas; BOB MOLUMBY is at the University of 
PAUL P. R/\THNAU, '59, is assisted with his new first lieutenant's bars by his brother, Capt. Don Rathnau, who wore the same bars. Both brothers are stationed at Ft. Meade, Maryland. 
California at Berkeley, working on a Master's de­
gree; and GERRY DAHLE plans to be married 
soon to Miss Helen Cullinan of San Francisco, 
fonncrly of Chicago. 
In my April mail I was pleased to receive a formal announcement of the opening of the law* offices of GENE A. SALEM and CHARLES J. REYMANN,. 317 W. Bowery Street, Akron 7, Ohio. Both Gene and Chuck arc I960 graduates of the NJD. Law-School, as well as members of the Class of '58. 
A letter from BOB MISSEL arrived during May, reporting that Bob is planning to enter law school in the fall. In the time since graduation. Bob has been married, has become the father of two chil­dren, and has been employed by the marketing de­partment of the Controls Duision of American Standard Corporation. Bob has been linng in Rochester, Michigan. 
D.\N BERGIN sent along a very interesting piece of mail in Maiy, consisting of a newsletter which deals with the' activities of 18 or 20 men who banded together and formed a sort of fraternal society after haring jointly undergone some harrow­ing disciplinary experiences early in their careers at 
N.D. Dan was appointed scribe for this group and he periodically publishes a newsletter. He sent a copy of this letter to me and we have therefore ac­quired a considerable bit of news. Unfortunately 1 will have to tr>* to condense the material because of our space limitations. It is as follows. DAVE McSHANE is the proud father of a son, Mike, bom June 9, 3950. Dad McShane is now teadung­elemcntar>- sdiool in Pittsburgh. JOHN McCORRY is Chief Engineer aboard the USS Kenneth Bailey, a destroyer on duty in the Mediterranean. MIKE CONNORS is with the Na\-v- in Naples, where he win be until August of 1962. OWEN BOSS.\LAN is married, father of a son, and will soon acquire hls> 
M.D. For the future he plans to go into clinical pathology. BOB HOULTH.AN and JOE ftVLISKY are both at Redstone Arsenal in Alabama. Joe is a missile research engineer and eWdently has a pretty good set-up in the Army — not good enough, how­ever, to persuade him to stay past his scheduled term. Bob is a public relations information officer at Redstone, but is soon to be released. JACK THO%LVS is about to become qualified as a Marine helicopter pilot. JERRY THO.\L\S is stationed at the Marine Corps Air Station, EI Toro, California, in spite of the fact that he is In the Na\-y. He too is soon to resume civilian life and is looking for employment In the Savings and Loan field in Cali­fornia. BILL ISBELL is intelligence officer aboard the carrier Forrestal in the Mediterranean. JOHN BADE is liring in Wheaton, Illinois, and recently was a member of the Ilh'nois State Champion Barber Shop Quartet. JEROME "GARY" COOPER is a Marine lieutenant stationed in Hawaii, he and his wife now have t\vo children. BILL GE.\RV is with the Scabccs in Hawaii and Is soon to become a father. BILL S&\NLON is doing intern work in Hawaii on a program connected with Northwestern ^^ed. School. ^\'ALT DONNELL Y has left the Marine Corps, and w*ith his family (three kids) is living in San Francisco ^vherc he U a salesman. JERRY BROWN recently left Hawaii and the Ma­rine Corps. He too is married and the father of a cliild. f\s for the supplier of all this news, DAN BERGIN, we have the following: Dan got pretty gung ho and re-cnlistcd (the ideal conditions in Hawaii probably had something to do with it). He is with the counter intelligence team of the Fleet Marine Corps In Honolulu. Dan has been married two and a half years and has a son, Danny Joe. Tlie Bergins u*erc in California at Camp Pendleton, until being shipped to Haivali. Many thanks for the information, Dan. 
DON BAIER wrote from Bloomfield, N.J., where he is firing with wife, Audna, and son, Don, Jr. He is with Esso Standard in the sales department. 
BOB MCCARTH Y recently received his wings as a Naxy flier, at Pensacola, according to a news­paper clipping sent along from Boston. 
A postcard from C. LESTER .ADIE announces that he was married on April 15, to Miss Joanne Jean of Nashua, N.H. The Adics arc liring in Nashua while Les is teacliing math and working for a Master*s degree at Boston College. 
Mrs. BILL FARMER has for^vorded nc^vs con­cerning her husband's recent aclirities (let this ser\c as an example to all wives whose husbands are cither too busy or unable to stir themselves to write) which relates that the Farmers (she is the former ^farle Lansingcr of Washington, D.C.) were married in August of 1958, have a daughter, Susan Marie, and are expecting another arri\*al in August. Bill is now- with the Martin Company, in Orlando, Florida, where he and Marie plan to reside pcrma* 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September^ 1961 63 
nently. Currentlj' Bill is working for a Master's de­gree in Business at Rollins College in Orlando. Further newTS is that ED BAUER is working for Eastern Airlines in Chicago. 
BILL GULLEY is nou- uiih the ^Vorthinglon Corporation and is Hv-ing in Atlanta. His work is that of an .Application Engineer. After a couple of years in this line he will be given a sales territorv" as a technical representative. He appears to be de­lighted \%-ith the set-up. While in Atlanta he has nin into BUCK HARRISS and LOU LONCARIC. 
And finally, JIM McQUIRE \»Titcs from Ne\v Iberia, La., that he is flying a sub-hunicr for the Na\T over the Gulf of Mexico. Pre\-iously he «-as with an attack squadron on the East Coast. 
That seems to be the extent of the news for now. Many thanks to the contributors; your efTorts are greatly appreciated. Perhaps you have noticed that as yet the Class of 1958 has not had to miss lia\-ing a news column (and it has usually been a substan­tial one) in any issue of the ALUMXUS. This fact 15 wholly attributable to your fine cooperation in sobmitting news. Keep up the good work. Before signing oiT, let me remind you again of the reunion following next fall's Northwestern game. I need not tell you how enjoyable such an affair can be. 
From the Alumni OIHce: 
Lt. (j.g.) THOMAS C. BARTHOLOMEW, U.S.N*., returned from a seven-month cruise to tlic Far East, including Hong Kong, Japan, and the Philippines, in time to sec the Irish play baseball in San Diego during their spring training trip. He talked with Coach Jake Kline and Herb Jones at the game. While in San Diego he also \-isited at the home of WM. SIDENFADEN. '29. Lt. Bar­tholomew is now temporarily assigned to the Xa\*al Air Station at Key West, Florida where he is tak­ing additional training in the operation of the Na\Vs new twin-turbine Sikorsky HSS-2 helicopter. 
A note from TIMOTm;' R. RICE, JR., advises that he's cliangcd his address to Garden -Apart­ments, Apt. 18, Gcne%-a, N.Y., and adds: ".As you probably know, Vm working for my dad at Max­well, Bowder and Rice Nurseries and enjoy the work very mucii. After being on the sailing team at sdiool I now spend most of my summer sailing with my wife on our 'Thistle.' Our biggest thrill this year will be our first child which we expect in November." 
JOHN EDWARD GERRARD has joined the products rcsearcli staff for Esso Research and Engineering, affiliated with Standard OH (N.J.), and took a Ph.D. from the U. of Cincinnati to loUow his N.D. bacJicJor and master's degrees. 
Other graduates: JOHN E. SHEPHERD, with an 

LL.B. from Western Rcser%-e, Cleveland; JOHN ANTHONY FRANKS, JR., with an M.S. in chem­istry from the same institution; and SISTER MARY BONAVENTURE HALL, R.S.M., a summer school coed with an M.A. from N.D., took her Ph.D. in education from Si. John's U., New York, witli "A Sur\cy and Appraisal of Public Relations Practices in Catholic Secondary Schools." 
1959 
Dennis M. Nead 6121 Robison Rd. Cincinnati, Ohio 

DOS U7LLIAMS was married to Teresa Marie Noonan in Indianapolis on the 3rd of June. 
DON GILLIES was also married on June 3rd to Miss Sandra Lee Gill ^vho was a '59 graduate from AVellesIy. Don has acted as a CIC officer aboard the USS The Sullivans and has operated with both NATO and SEATO units during various cruises. 
JIM OGBURN is an anti-submarine warfare offi­cer aboard the George K. Mackenzie whicli has been homeported in Yokosuka, Japan, since May *60. 
PAUL WILLIHNGANZ is tlie main propulsion assistant on the Eversole and is sclieduled to relieve as cn^ncer officer in early May. 
DANIEL R. WEBBER, LL.B. '61, appears with President John F. Kennedy, 
LL.D. '50, in a White House ceremony in which Dan was one of three blind students to receive $500 au'ards for scholastic achievement. 
TOM HOBERG is still holding forth on the John 
R. Craig, wliicli is now undergoing overhaul in San Diego or Long Beacli. A morsel LT. JG, Tom is more than likely scanning the Southern Cali­fornia shores for grunion. 
TOM HALIEREX is also assigned to the John R. Craig as a radar officer. The ship's cruises have taken him to Hong Kong, Formosa, Guam, Hawaii, and the Philippines. 
FRANK REYNOLDS, No. 27, is attending law scliool at Loyola and was married to Miss Pegg>-Dvvycr last July 9ih. 
BOB ROSS is doing market research work for the Washington Star in D.C Bob will soon attend the University of Mar>'Iand to receive his M.A. in English. 
CRARLIE PHILLIPS is the PIO officer for tlie USS Little Rock now with the Sixth Fleet in the Mediterranean and will return to the States in 
BASEBALL SNAPSHOT on dreary day, showing defunct Drill Hall and Vetville buildings, is memorable for recording last home game played on old Cartier Field before library excavation (and a rare Irish victory). 
August. Chuck met LOU KAVANAUGH and !lfARV DIETSCH also on ^fcditerranean cruises^ and reminisced for many hours about some school with a 2-8 record last fall. 
JOE KING is now married and attending dental school at Northtvcstcm University. 
DICK BESCHEN, part owner of a chain of speed nut shops in Philadelphia, is assistant editor of a trade magazine. Sounds like ^LG. material. 
BOB PIER is LT. JG aboard the USS Keith and HARRY RYAN is the same aboard the USS Muliphen. 
SUNNY SUN5ERI is attending med school at Ohio State University as is JACK PARKER at Indiana. BOB ^VILLIAMS is attending med school at Pitt, and NORM ODYNEIC the same at George­tOT\-n. 
ALAN TIGER REED has just finished the y/hzrton Scfiool (U. of Penn.) and is marking time until Uncle Sam takes hold sometime in June. BOB ^VILLIAMS (from Sweetwater, Texas) also went to AVharton, graduated with Tiger, and intends to work for a bank in Dallas. 
JIM FARRELL went into the .Army immediately after graduation and has just now started work on his masters at Wharton. Other members of our class still at WTiarton include CRAIG HILLYER and TOM SHINE. JOE B.ATTLE is at Pcnn Law School (second year). 
BOB MURPHY married Miss Pat Cunningham. St. Mar>''s grad, on Anril 8ih this year. The wed­ding party included JIM BACLI\T of New York, who at present is in the clothing business with his brother. 
LARRY WENTZ is in the Air Force completing his tour of duty at Salina, Kansas. His wife is atx-aiting the birth of their second child. ^ 
CARL ENGSTROM is in his second year at A1­bany Law School. His wife Sandy has just presented him with a baby girl. Tlicy also have a baby boy. 
JOE BAIRLEY, after spending some time touring Europe, has entered the order of Trappist monks near Louisrillc, Kentucky. 
RICH CORNELL, after a short military career, is doing wliat he went to college for, that is, being a cattle rancher and cowman. Tlie socioIos>' degree comes in handy lecturing to the cattle. He married a graduate of Idaho Univ.. Miss Joan Dean, who was also a former Western Airlines stewardess. 
DICK MARSHALL, presently linng in Jerome, Tdaho. is applying his metallurg>- degree to the busi­ness of growing potatoes. He is now the father of two bo>-s and one girl. 
MIKE KOHOUT married Miss Daricne Glenn, a 1950 grad of the U. of Washington and a registered " pharmacist. Mike noted that his wife hasn't been doing too much pill pushing lately due to the fact that they expect their first dependent shortly. Mike has been doing group insurance work for the Conti­nental Life and Accident Company since graduation. 
MIKE JOYCE was killed in an automobile acci­dent in Chicago on Saturday, the 15th of April. Mike was a former salesman employed by General Mills and worked out of Peoria, Illinois. Close friends of Mike's who would like to send Mass cards, please address to Mrs. P. S. Joyce, 4625 Drcxel .Ave.. So., Minneapolis 24. Minn. 
JIM ARSENEAULT, a Lt. in the Na\y, met death on Afay 7. Close triends of Jim. please address Mass cards to Dr. and Mrs. James Arscneault, 69 Charlotte Street, Worcester 10, Mass. 
Writing for tlie Class of '59, I would like to express sincere regret to the parents of Mike Joyce ^ and Jim .Arscneault on their sons' and our class­mates' recent fatalities. 
I would also like to express sincere regret to class members EDDIE HICKEY and CHARLIE STE­PHENS on the recent death of their mother and father respectively. 
From the ^Uumni Office: 
GEORGE A. FRECHEITE, Fairmont Ave., Kingston, N.Y., has been selected as a participant in the IBAf advanced study program and will enter Syracuse U. for ad\'anced study in electrical engineering. George is an associate engineer with the company's Federal S>"stems Dirision Common Control Center lab at Kingston. He'll take his wife Patricia to S\Tacuse ^vith him. 
WILLUM EDWARD McMAHON of Chicago j recrivcd an M.A. in philosophy at Brm*"n Univer­sit>*'s commencement in June, with a thesis on "The Meaning of 'Good'." THOMAS HERBERT 
64 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1961 
COOK, Hastings^n-Hudson, N.Y.; JAMES JO­
kSEPH CORRIGAN, JR., Wilmington, Del.; and JOHN E. McCRATH, Pittsburgh, received M.S. degrees in industrial administration at Carnegie Tech. And WILLIAM FOWLER HOLMES III received an M.A. in history at the U. of Delaware. 
1960 
John F. Geicr 
713 La Crosse Avenue 
Wilmette, Illinois 

"From the Alumni Office: 
THO.MAS HENRY BURNS of Emmaus, Pa., received an M.B.A. at June commencement exer­cises of Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa­
1961 
Nick Palihnich 
34 Dartmouth Road 
West Orange, N. J. 

To the men of the graduating Class of '61, con­gratulations arc first in order for finally making the grade after four years of living "by the rules." Al­though at times they were rather diflicult to comply with, I am sure they have accomplished their pur­pose in preparing us for Hfc in that "cruel world" \vc arc now entering. 
This article will be of a slightly different nature than the first quarterly, primarily because I am in need of alumni representatives from certain sections of the country. Before graduation I was able to secure volunteers for alumni representation in the following areas of the country-. For graduating se­niors living in the Xcw England states of Maine, Vcmjonl, i^ew Hampshire, Connecticut, Massachu­setts, and Rhode Island the alumni representative will be MIKE FARRAR of 30 Deerfield Ave., Water­bury, Connecticut. Mike can be reached at this 
"jladdrcss^ or since he must return to Notre Dame for 
one mare semester,' at fits school address which 1 
will mention in the next issue of the ALUMNUS. For those alumni linng in the state of New York e.\cluding New York City, the alumni representative will be FRANK "CHICK" ANNESE. Frank can be contacted at 702 Morfando Drive, Endicott, Nen' York. In New York City and New Jersey I will ser\'e as representative for this area. PcnnsyKTmia graduates u*ill be represented by BERNIE DO> BRANSKI whose home address is 101 Mt. Lebanon BouIe\'ard, Pittsburgh, PcnnsyU*ania. Since Bemic intends to study law at Virginia next year, he may also be reached at his scliool address, ^vhtdl will be stated in the next issue of the ALUMNUS. Representing the southern states of North Caro­lina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Maryland, West Virginia, Kentucky, and Virginia will be that most Io>-aI rebel JAV KILROY. Jay can be reached at fc326 CoIviUc Road, Charlotte, North Carolina. JOE ^IBBY, whose IiDiue address is 442 Royal Palm Way, Palm Beach, Florida, will represent the deep southern states of Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, and Florida. Moving into the Mid-West, graduates 11%'tng in Ohio and Michigan have BOB BREIVTCA of 3*52 West 159 St., Cleveland, Ohio as their representa­tive. In Indiana and Illinois, e.xcluding the Chicago area, the alumni rep. will be JERRY McNAMARA nf 1204 West Ccrro Gardo, Decatur, Illinois. In Chicago, PAT HICKEY will ser\c as representative since he plans to work in the city for the next few yc^a^s. I will state his mailing address in Chicago in the next issue of the ALUMNUS. Representation in the states of Wisconsin, Minnesota, ~ North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, and Iowa will be taken care of by JOHN MAY. John's address is 1620. North Main St., Racine, Wisconsin. I was unable to secure representation in four rireos of the country. They are as follows: 1) Louisi­ana, Arkansas, Missouri, Kansas; 2) Texas, Okla­homa, New Mexico, Colorado, and Arizona; 3) Mon­
tana, Idalto, Wyoming, Nevada, Utah, Oregon and Washington; 4) California. If there is anyone who is living in these areas and would like to ser\-e as an alumni representative, I would appreciate it greatly if you would contact me by mail. The only function you have to perform is to make sure that I hear from the graduates living in your territory at least once a year. I would mall you a list of those whom you would be responsible for and then your job would be to inform me by mail on the activities of each graduate in your area. You would only have 
to contact those graduates who had not already 
written directly to me during the course of each year. 
Over graduation weekend I w*as able to talk with some of the men who weren't included in the first issue of the ALU.MNUS. I spoke to AflKE TERRY and he told me that he was planning on lay mis­sionary- work in fUaska after graduation. His room­mate DICK ZAN G is going to enter the service, preferably the Navy. .ART KUSHI is planning a summer trip to Japan, and after this he will return to Notre Dame in September to do graduate work in electrical engineering. Among those heading for medical school next year will be JIM BRGKSAN who plans to attend at Cincinnati. DENNY COL> LINS is also heading for med school in Boston. 
The "little man" from Chicago, ED STEPHAN, is going to Work for Brunswick Corporation again this summer and then he is planning on entering grad. school in the fall. DON RALPH will have to hang up his racket for a while In order to study psychology' at Catholic University in Washington, 
D.C. ED "DIGGER" DAWSON told me he had a six month hitch in the Army at Ft. Knox and after 
this he plans on attending business scliool at either 
Xavier or Cincinnati. PAUL LaFRA.MBOISE will return to his home in Canada and work for a year in Quebec. He then hopes to study in Europe at the business school of the University of Gene\-a in SifitzeWand. 
Returning to law school at Notre Dame next fall is DON VECKERELLI. RAY KASHINSKI has de­cided on the Nav>- and A.O.C. Training School. After the Na w I am sure his plans include a girl by the name of Sarah Richardson. TI.\C .MONO­HAN will attend the University of Chicago business school in the fall. .-Another business school applicant is TOM TRAFELSKI who will study at N.Y.U. After fulfilling a six month service obligation in the xVrmy, NICK CHESTER will work for the United California Bank in San Francisco. JERRY CAR­RIER must serve two years with the Army Counter Intelligence Corps, starting October 16. Before en­tering the Army he is going to work for the In­dianapolis Star Newspaper. JOE A!URRAY will re­turn to his homcto^vn in Hownesdale, Pennsylvania and enter the general hardware business. JOEL HAGGARD intends to do graduate work in Nuclear Engineering at the University of Oklahoma, TRACY OSBOURNE ivill join D/VN GRIFFITH in lay missionary work In Killeen, Texas for one year. He then plans on attending medical school at Tulane. Another med school applicant is CLYDE HIGH­TOWER who will study at St. Louts University in the fall. 
Just prior to graduation two members of the baseball team received some vcr>* good news. JACK MITCHELL signed for a bonus of $10,000 and a Triple A contract with the Minnesota Twins of the American League. He will pitch this summer with a Minnesota farm team in Erie, Pennsylvania. The Twins also signed DAN MAGEN, giving him aa $18,000 combined bonus and contract offer over * three year period. I am sure I express ihe feelinff of all the members of the class when I wish them the very best of luck pfissible. 
I know X have misjed quite a tew ot you in these first two articles. I would be very grateful if those of you whom I have missed would drop me a short postcard in the immediate future relating your current plans. You may either contact me directly or your alumni representative. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Whether he likes it or not, Mishawaka Police Chief DEAN BOLERJACK (Howard D.) is a member of the Class of '61. Luted for 25 yean as a member of the Class of '36 with which he started. Chief Bolerjack will be able to make his fifth and twenty-fifth reunion at the same time in 1966. 
Special Congrats to center DAVE HURD on his assignment as line coach at John Carroll U., Cleve­land. Dave was an assistant fresliman coach at 
N.D. last year, and will ser\'e at J.CU. under Notre Darner JOHN RAY, who coached him at Three Rivers, Mich., High. 
Law Class of 1961 
John N. Moieland Des Moines 17, Iowa 2833 High St. 

President Kennedy presented an award of $300 for "outstanding scholastic achievement'* to a classmate among three blind students graduating in June. Recording for the Blind, Inc., was spon­sor of the awards. 
The three students went to the White House May 19. They had been aided during their uni­versity studies by recorded textbooks provided free by the sponsoring organization, which is cur­rently serving about 2200 blind students, including those in adutt education. 
The students were: Helen Vivian Aartskjold of Brooklyn, Ne%v York, and Clark University in Wor­cester, Mass.; Cheryl Lynn Martin of Mansfield, Ohio, and Wittenberg University in Springfield, Ohio; and DANIEL R. WEBBER of Saginaw, Michigan, graduating LL.B. from the Law School of the University of Notre Dame, Indiana, in the top third of his class, who expects to practice law. 
Dan graduated from Michigan State University magna cum laude in 1958, with a bachelor's de­gree in political science. ^Vhile there he was a member of \arious scholastic fraternities, on the Student Union Board and a member of Student Government. He obtained a secondary teaching certificate as an undergraduate, and received a scholarship to the Law School at Notre Dame. 
At the I.aw School he was in the upper third of his class and was the class representative in the Student Laiv- As50ciatioD. He was also Vice-Chairman of Gray's Inn, a Law School discussion group. 
He is a certified Red Cross Senior Life Saver and has worked at summer camps in Michigan, Wis­consin, New Jersey and PennsyK-aaia as counsellor or Assistant Director. 
KANSAS CITY—Pulchritudinous new officers of the busy AmdUary to tlie K.C. Notre Dame Club are (I.-r.) Mrs. llrgil F. Soden, Mrs. Harlow B. King, Mis. Josepb 
B. Shaughnessy, Jr., president; Mrs. Jerry Soden, and Mrs. James H. De Cooney, Jr. 
The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
Dear Fellow Alumnus: 

Beginning this fall — tlie Notre Dame Alumni have their greatest opportunity to make a major contribution to the future of tlie University. Every Alumnus is now familiar with the Ford Founda­tion Program, ^vliich makes it possible for Notre Dame to receive an additional $6 million — if we raise $12 million during tlie current tliree-year period. 
The Special Gifts Division has been working night and day during tlie past fifteen months in an efTort to obtain large gifts from other charitable foundations — from indi\'iduais oi great wealth 
— and from everj' possible large potential contributor. This phase of the drive has been exceedingly successful, with tlie help of Our Lady and tlie prayers of all concerned. 
Now, tlie Alumni — all 30,000 of us — must be prepared to face our challenge. Never before in the histor)' of Notre Dame has the University asked the Alumni to contribute toward such a vast and vital capital gifts program. True, we have been making annual contributions to the Notre Dame Alumni Fund, or tlie Notre Dame Foundation. These contributions have been desperately needed and deeply appreciated. The record for generosity by the Alumni has been highly commendable. 
This year, however, we must stretch our capacity and give Notre Dame a priority position—if Notre Dame is to maintain its leadership among the great universities of the world. There are several positive points of action that can and must be taken by ever)' Notre Dame Alumnus this year: (1) We must be prepared to give a considerable amount of our time in helping to recruit five thousand dedicated workers for the Foundation Program. (2) AVe must in ever)' way encourage all other alumni and e-x-students to help raise the over-all percentage of participation during these critical years. Ever)' local alumni club should set and reach the goal of 100% participation in the current Foun­dation Program. (3) Most of all — we must raise our own sights toward larger individual contribu­tions. \Ve should not think of our contributions for tlie naxt two years on any basis of comparison M'ith tlie past. This time — we must pledge the largest possible amount — and each of us must try to be a pacesetter for the other. 
This is the challenge for the Alumni. It is, indeed, a great challenge. AVe cannot fail. AVhen we reach our $12-million goal, Notre Dame will tlicn be in a position to receive additional outside help 
— not only from the Ford Foundation, but from the many other major foundations and philanthropic organizations of this nation. Notre Dame is obviously the only Catholic universit)' which has this opportunity. 
Beginning with tlie issue of this ALUMNUS, this opportunity becomes an Alumni responsibility. If we all accept our Personal Responsibility — the goals will be reached, and Notre Dame's future as a great University will be assured. 
Sincerely, 

C>^"7T-^-'ys»i--'»-*-< 
I'klNTLD AT .\\X .M.VKIA '•Kl": 









