The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
J-— * v---» »=!(/•»—^ 
Vol. 30, No. 4 — Aug.-Sept., 1952 
^^' Notre Dame 
DIRECrORS TO 1953 



A Notre Dame Alumnus 
Vol. 30, No. -1 AUG.-SEPT., 1952 
James E. Armstrong, '25, Editor John N. Cacklcy, Jr., '37, Associate Editor Richard P. Cody, '52, Assistant Editor 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University oi Notre Dame. Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class matter Oct 1, 1939. at the Postoffice. Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24. 1912 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OFFICERS  
R. CoNROY ScoGOiNs, '24.  Honorary  President  
HARVEY G. FOSTER, '39  President  
RICHARD J. NASH, '23  .First  Vice-President  
UR. MATTHEW W . WEIS, '22  Second  Vice-President  
WILLIAM C. SCHMITT, '10  Third  Vice-President  
JAMES  E. .ARMSTRONG,  '25  Mirector  and Secretary  

HARVEY G. FOSTER, '39 202 Federal Court House, El Paso, Tex. RICHARD J. NASH, '23 1840 S. Kilbourne, Chicago 23, III. DR. MATTHEW WEIS, '22 7579 Northmoor, St. Louis 5, Mo. LESTER W . FOLEY, '24 _ Foley, Florida 
DIRECTORS TO 1954 
JOSEPH S. MORRISSEY, '28 49 Race St., Cincinnati 2, Ohio JOHN H . NEESON, JR., '35 167 Summit Lane, Bala Cynwyd, Pa. WILLIAM C. SCHMITT, '10 .2765 N. W. Nicolai St., Portland, Ore. LUTHER M . SWYGERT, '27 6330 Hahman Ave., Hammond, Ind. 

DIRECTORS TO 1955 
J. R,\LPH CoRYN '22 1211 16th Ave., Moline, III. JOHN W. COURTNEY, '25 .401 S. Highland, Dearborn, Mich. GALVIX HUDSON, '15 1515 Sterick Bldg., Memphis 1, Tenn. JAMES G. MCGOLDRICK, '39 2675 H. Hudson Pkwy.. New York 63 
CHAIRMEN OF THE 1952 COMMITTEES 
HARVEY FOSTER Executive DR. WEIS .Budget and Finance RICHARD NASH foundation. Alumni Fund and Gifts JOHN H . NEESON Class Activities JOSEPH S. MORRISSEY Club Activities WILLIAM SCHMITT. _ Job Counseling and Placement DR. WEIS Religion and Citizenship JOHN H . NEESON Prestige and Public Relations RICHARD NASH „ .Preparatory School Relations DR. WEIS Inter-Alumni Association LUTHER M . SWYGERT Resolutions 



The Alnnmi Assoeiation 
Universily of IVotrtt Dame 
Harvey G. Foster, '39, President 202 U. S. Court House El Paso, Texas 

Aug. n , 1952 
Dear Notre Dame Men: 

I would like by means of this letter to acquaint or reacquaint, as the case may be, each of you with some of the activities of our Alumni Association. The phase that i would like to discuss at this time is Club Activities. 
Recognizing that Notre Dame Clubs represent Notre Dame in their areas, great stress is placed on club activities by the Club Activities Committee of the Alumni Association. This year, that Committee working closely with Jim Armstrong, the Alumni Secretary, worked out a program for the biennial Club Presidents Council held on the campus in June. The expenses of the Club President, or his alternate, who attends the Council are paid. 
This year at the Council, there was furnished to the Presidents in attendance a blueprint of the outstanding activities of the various Clubs, with firsthand information as to how these activities had been promoted and carried through to a successful conclusion. Also discussed in detail was Club operation and organization. 
The Club Presidents Council this year has shown a need for a list of the available campus speakers and their topics, and a closer liaison between the local Clubs and the Alumni Office, both of which needs are receiving the attention of the Alumni Secretary. It is also expected that as a result of the Council, the Club Presidents will keep the Alumni Office more closely informed of their needs and programs. 
In order to make our Association a stronger and more active one, I would like to ask that each of you take it upon your­self to look up and welcome into your Clubs this year's graduates and, further, to resolve to take a more active port in your Club's activities. 
Sincerely, 


/s.' HARVEY G. FOSTER 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 


Father Hesbursh New President of Notre Dame 
Administrative Changes Announced by Provincial 
Rer. Theodore M. Hestnirgh, C.S.C. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., has been named fifteenth president of the University of Notre Dame, as an­nounced recently by the Rev. Theo­dore J. Mehling, C.S.C., provincial of the Indiana province of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross. 
The 35-year-old native of Syracuse, New York, succeeds Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., who has become a member of the Provincial Council of the Congregation of Holy Cross, with residence at Notre Dame. Father Cavanaugh has been assigned for spe­cial assistance to the president of the University. 
During the past three years Father Hesbmgh has been executive vice-president of Notre Dame. A graduate of Gregorian University, Rome, and the Catholic University of America, Father Hesburgh was a chaplain dur­ing the Second World War. He came to Notre Dame in 1945 to teach reli­gion, and was chaplain of the married veterans attending the University. He was named head of the Department of Religion in 1948, in which capacity he served until his appointment as execu­tive vice-president. 
In other changes, which involved more than 400 priests of the Indiana province. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., acting vice-president of busi­ness affairs, was named to succeed Father Hesburgh as executive vice-president of Notre Dame. Formerly of Spartansburg, South Carolina, Father Joyce was a certified public accountant for five years following his graduation from Notre Dame in 1937. He was ordained in 1949 and assigned to the business office of the University as as­sistant to the vice-president. 
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., is the new vice-president in charge of stu­dent affairs. He had been since 1950 the vice-president in chaige of aca­demic affairs. A native Hoosier, Father Norton was ordained in 1933 and spent nine years in Austin, Texas. He was a chaplain with the marines in World War II. 
Succeeding Father Norton as vice-president of academic affairs is Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., who had been dean of the graduate school at Notre Dame since 1944. A native of Wabash, Indiana, Father Moore was graduated from Notre Dame in 1924, and or­dained in 1928. He studied in France after his graduate work at Catholic University, and has been at Notre Dame since 1933. 
Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., is the new vice-president in charge of busi­ness affairs at Notre Dame, succeeding Father Joyce. Father Wilson was graduated in 1932, and left the employ of Bendix-Westinghouse as assistant auditor to enter the priesthood. He was ordained in 1949, and has been an instructor in accounting on the Notre Dame faculty. 
Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C, re­mains in the position of vice-president in charge of public relations, as he has for the past three years. 
Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C, who has been serving as assistant to the vice-president in charge of academic affairs, has beea named assistant vice-president in chaige of academic affairs and dean ef the graduate schooL 
The new assistant te the vice-prea­dent in charge of student affairs and director of student welfare is Rev. Charles I. McCarragfaer, CS.C , who succeeds Rev. James J. Leahy, CS.C. Father Leahy remains on the Notre Dame faculty. 
Rev. Charles M. Carey, CS.C, act­ing vice-president in charge of student welfare during the past year, is the new prefect of lel^en at Notre Dame, takmg the place of Rev. Richard J. Grimm, CS.C, who has been ap­pointed assistant religious superior of the Notre Dame cemmuBity. 
Rev. Michael J. Early, CS.C, is the new supeiior ef Ae Community Infirmary at Notre Dame, succeeding Rev. Patrick J. Haggert^ CS.C 
Rev. Harold Riley, CS.C , who has been a member of the staff of the Catholic Boy magazine, has been named siqierior ef Hely Cress Siem­inary on,the Netre Dame campus. 
Rev. Howard J. Kenna, CS.C , for­merly directer of studies at Notre 
Rer. EJIMBIMI P* Joyces Cl&C 
Rev. Jolin H. Murphy, CS.C. 
Dame, has been named superior of the Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C. 
Rev. Michael J. Gavin, CS.C, has been named president of the University of Pordand, Portland, Oregon. Father Gavin succeeds Rev. Robert H. Swee­ney, CS.C, who remains in Portland as head of the University of Portland Foundation. 
Rev. Charles M. Callahan, CS.C, has been named superior of the Notre Dame mission priests in Evanston, 111., while Rev. Alfred J. Neff, CS.C, is the new superior of the Foreign Mis­sion Seminary in Washington, D. C 
Rev. James W. Connerton, CS.C , is the first provincial of the newly-erected Eastern Province of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross. Father Con­nerton was vice-provincial during the past several years of formation. 
Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, CS.C , who has been head of the department of 
Rev. James E. Norton, CS.C. 
4 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
religion at Notre Dame, has been named dean of the University's Col­lege of Arts and Letters. Father Sheedy, who has been rector of Far­ley Hall and a leader in the University Marriage Institute, succeeds Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, CS.C, dean of the A.B. school since 1943. Father Cavanaugh will remain on the Arts and Letters faculty. 
The Rev. FelLx D. Duffey, CS.C, has been appointed editor of the Ave Maria magazine, a Catholic home weekly. Assistant editor since the summer of 1949, Father Duffey suc­ceeds Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, CS.C, editor of the Ave Maria for the past eighteen years. 
Father Carroll, known throughout the country for his accomplishments in 
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C. 

the fields of journalism and of pulpit eloquence, has been named historiog­rapher for the Indiana Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross. He plans shortly to bring out a life of the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, CS.C , founder of the University of Notre Dame and of Ave Maria magazine. The magazine, oldest Catholic weekly in the United States, has enjoyed continuous weekly publication since its founding in 1865. 
Father Duffey was bom in Ypsilanti, Michigan, in 1903, and raised in De­troit. He was graduated from Notre Dame in 1932 and ordained to the priesthood in 1937. Father Duffey is the author of two books, "Testing the Spirit" (1946) and "Psychiatry and Asceticism" (1950). 
Associate editors Revs. Thomas E. 
Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, CS.C. 
Burke, CS.C , Thomas A. Lahey, CS.C, and James F. McElhone, C.S.C., remain on the editorial board imder Father Duffey. 

Professor Bird Named as Consultant to Institute 
Professor Otto Bird, director of the General Program of Liberal Education at the University of Notre Dame, has recently been named special consultant to the Institute for Philosophical Re­search. The Institute has been set up at San Francisco under the direction of Mortimer J. Adler to compile a "Dialectic for the Twentieth Century." A project that will take forty or fifty years to complete. Dr. Adler envisions it as corresponding to the "Summae" of Aristotie arid St. Thomas, or to the work of the eighteenth century French Encyclopedists Diderot and d'Alem­bert—^"a comprehensive look at human knowledge." 
Other consultants recently appointed are Jacques Maritain, French Philoso­pher, and Paul Weiss of Yale Univer­sity, editor of the Review of Meta­physics. The work of the Institute will be financed initially by grants. 

Mr. Bird took over direction of No­tre Dame's new General Program of Liberal Education in the summer of 1950, coming to the University from his position as associate editor of the Syntopicon of the Great Books of the Western World, a project lately com­pleted, also under Dr. Adler's direction. 
Fisher Residence Hall. The Science Buildii^. (ySluiqifaiessy libeial and Fine Arts HaH 




$2,000,000 Utilities Project 
Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund Aids New Construction 
Positive improvements to the phys­ical plant of the University of Notre Dame brought about by increased par­ticipation in the Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund are daily becoming more apparent, as evidenced by the new Morris Inn, which has already been in service for several months, by rapidly-progressing work on the Fisher Dormitory and the O'Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts, by construc­tion aimed at enlarging the jjower house and by the nearly-completed water tower. 
Further success of the drive towards 100 percent participation in the Fund by alumni groups throughout the coun­try will continue to produce such heart­ening results, and it is hoped that the encouraging efforts of alumni to reach the 100 percent goal will be sustained during the ensuing months. 
Although the O'Shaughnessy build­ing will not be completed imtil some­time in 1953, Fisher Hall \vill be ready for occupancy with the beginning of the September school term, and con­struction on both the power plant and water tower is in an advanced stage. 
Three of the four old boilers in the power plant have been removed, and two new pressure boilers, which will have a capacity of over 70,000 f>ounds of steam per hour, are being installed. The fourth boiler has been fitted with a complete new setting and water walls. The total capacity of all three boilers will be 180,000 pounds of steam per hour, approximately double the capacity of the old units. 
The $2,000,000 construction project also includes a new addition to the power plant, the installation of a new 6' X 6* steam distribution tunnel from the plant to Farley Hall, where it wiU join the revamped piping from Farley to the Engineering Building, and the installation of an underground duct system from the plant to the new Lib­eral and Fine Arts Building. The new steam tunnel wiU aSect only the east side of the campus, with the west side continuing to run on low pressure for 
(Continued on page 16) 

.Different views of the $2,000,000 project enlarging .and modernizing the power plant, addii^ new steam tunnels. 

Club Presidents Meet Here 
Alumni Programs Feature Varied Agenda 
A forecast of even better alumni-club activities in the future isn't too amiss, considering the wealth of practical sug­gestions that grew out of addresses and discussions at the Alumni Club Presi­dent's Council meeting early this June. 
Among the important topics on which information was exchanged by club officers were Universal Notre Dame Night, Universal Communion Sunday, the Notre Dame Foundation and local clubs, membership factors, athletics, young alumni and under­graduate relations, and the annual meeting. 
John M. Neeson, Philadelphia Alum­ni Director, discussed Universal Notre Dame Night, and reminded the 63 officers present that the aim of the Night was to let people know about Notre Dame, that nothing could sub­stitute for an attractive program, a prominent speaker, publicity and hard work. He then answered questions on how the Philadelphia Club organized and presented its Notre Dame Night. 
James McGoldrick, New York Alum­ni Director, delivered an address on Universal Communion Sunday, and how it is handled by the New York Club, where the idea was first con­ceived in 1938. John Cackley, of the Foundation Office, stressed the im­portance of cooperation between local clubs and the Foundation. 
A panel discussion was held on membership factors, in the course of which several ideas were cited with the purpose of bringing younger alumni. 
particularly recent graduates, together with wives and non-grad former stu­dents, closer to the alumni group. 
During the time allotted to athletics, the Council heard Ticket Manager Bob Cahill explain the system used in distributing the highly-prized ducats, and Ed Krause, Notre Dame Athletic Director, talk on the University's gen­eral athletic policies. Bob McBride, of the football coaching staff, discussed current prospects, and asked for closer harmony between alumni and the ath­letic department in regard to finding and contacting boys who are by abifity and make-up suited to Notre Dame. 
A capsule review of special club activities, as explained by the various alumni groups, closed the meeting. 
Sixty-three officers who attended the Alumiii Club President's Council meeting in June. 
CM Offidils at Cnidl 
Arizona—Phoenix — J. G. O'Malley, 1&21 N. 11th Ave., Phoenix. Arkansas — Ft. Smith — Raymond A. Maare, 2510 Dodson, Ft. Smidi. 

California—Northern—^William Daly, 2446 Mass. Ave.,. Redwood City. San Diego—Winfield S. Day, 10-100 Fuerte Dr., La Mesa, California. Los Angeles—^Robert K. Kelley, 145 
S. Spring St., Los Angeles, Calif. Colorado—^Denver—^Thomas J. Gar­gan, 645 Pontiac, Denver. Connecticut — Connecticut Valley — David Bagley, 359 Hillside Ave., Hartford. Southwestern—Francis J. Herb, 1490 No. Ave., Bridgeport, Conn. District of Columbia — Gaylord P. Haas, 1303 N. Edgewood St, Ar­lington, Virginia. Florida—Greater Miami*—Jerome P. Holland, 318 N.E. 104th St., Miami. Idaho—Pzul Kohout, 1722 Washing­ton, Boise, Idaho. Illinois — Aurora — William Chawgo, 922 Lehnertz, Aurora. Chicago—^Luke J. Tieman, 495 Wil­low Rd., Winnetka, Illinois. Peoria—^Bernard Ghiglieri, Jr., 2717 Ashton Ave., Peoria, Illinois. Rock River Valley — Joseph Bittorf, 1411 First Ave., Sterling, 111. Indiana—Calumet District — William Riley, 4302 Magoun, E. Chicago, Ind. Fort Wayne—Roy Grimmer, 4722 S. Park Dr., Fort Wayne, Indiana. St. Joe Valley—^Devere Plunkett, So­cial Science Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind. Wabash Valley—Ted MacDonald, 106 Sunset Lane, West Lafayette, Ind. lozva—^Des Moines—^Fred J. Nesbit, 111 5th St., Des Moines. Tri-Cities—J. E. Keenan, 1110 Dav­enjjort Bank Bldg., Davenport. Kentucky—Louisville — Wm. H. Bos­ler, 310 Monohan Dr., Louisville. Maryland — Baltimore — W. Gregory Halpin, 224 Rogers-Forge Rd., Bal­
timore. Massachusetts—Pioneer Valley—John 
F. Sullivan, 4 Elliot St., Holyoke. Michigan—Berrien County — William Downey, 60 N. St. Joseph, Niles. Dearborn—Gerald Sarb, 23616 Hud­
son, Dearborn, Michigan. Grand Rapids and Western Mich.—J. 
T. Campbell, 2027 Union Blvd., Grand Rapids, Mich. 

Alumni Board members Harvey Foster, Joe Montssey, Jnn AimstiiM^, Joim Ni 
Hiawathaland — Gerald Paveglio, 105 
W. College, Marquette, Mich. Muskegon—George Ludwig, 372 Mor­ris, Muskegon, Michigan. 
Minnesota — Twin Cities — P. A. Dougherty, 515 Syndicate Bldg., Minneapolis. 
Duluth-Superior — James P. Keough, 2420 E. 6th St, Duluth, Minn. Missouri—Kansas City—R. J. Bowes, 4537 Jefferson, Kansas City, Mo. St Louis—J. T. Golabowski, 1221 Lo­cust, St. Louis, Missouri. New Jersey—Philip J. Heinle, 499 Ridgewood Rd., Maplewood, N. J. Central New Jersey—^Anthony GuifFre, 431 Barkley St, Perth Amboy, N. J. South Jersey—^W. A. McCormick, 701 Wick Blvd., Woodbury, N. J. 
New York — Buffalo — Anthony W. Brick, 5 Christiana St, N. To­wanda. 

Mohawk Valley — Louis Clark, 31 Whitesboro St, Yorkville, N. Y. Mid-Hudson Valley—Joseph C. Mc­
Cabe, 11 Market St., Poughkeepsie, 

N. Y. New York City — Herbert Giorgio, 188-04 Rio Dr., HoUis, N. Y. Rochester — Victor A. DeSimon, 79 California Dr., Rochester, N. Y. Schenectady — Frank Linehan, 1257 Glenwood Blvd., Schenectady, N. Y. Ohio—^Akron—^Bruce Raff, 161 Mar­vin Ave., Akron. . Cincinnati —W. H. Grafe, Jr., 3424 Shaw, Cincinnati, Ohio.' Cleveland—James P. Colleran, 199-21 
Beach Cliff Blvd., Rocky River, Ohio. 
Columbus—John D. Igoe, 2454 Ken­sington Rd., Columbus 12, Ohio. Dayton—Ed Steiner, 827 W. Schants^ 
Dayton, Ohio. Ohio Valley—John Robinson, 45th and Guernsey Sts., Bellaire, Ohio. 
Youngstown—William G. Lyden, Jr., 4805 Southern Blvd., Youngstown, Ohio. 
Oklahoma — Oklahoma City—R. E. McFarland, 4022 N.. MacArthur, Oklahoma City, Okla. Tulsa—C. L. McMahon, 1605 Nat'l. Bank, Tulsa, Oklahoma. 
Pennsylvania—Altoona ^ Frank Hola­han, 521 Garber St., Hollidaysburg. Harrisbiug—J. R. Graham, 513 Colo­
nial Ave., York, Pa. Philadelphia—J. P. Cattie, 6707 Crit­tenden St., Philadelphia, Pa. Pittsburgh — Lee Kirby, 4342 Center Ave., Pittsbuigh, Pa. Wilkes-Barre — Charles J. Baab, 90 Samboume St., Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Tennessee—Memphis—^W. J. TyiteU, 2822 Kimball, Memphis. Texas—^Houston—^E. F. Malloy, 3705 Arnold, Houston. 
Washington—Spokane—C. B. Pres­cott, 1131 Old Nat'l. Bank Bldg., Spokane. 
Western Washington—Patrick Go^in, 5723 37th Ave., Seattle 5, Wash. West Virginia — R. E. Shoemaker, 1527 Hampton Rd., Charleston. Wisconsin—^Fox River Valley—GusA. 
Zuehlke, 807 W. Prospect, Appleton. South Central Wisconsin—John E. To­bin, 2826 Van Hise Ave., Madison, 
Wis. 
«#« ii« Cimms of 900 


Gradnate on Campus 
Dr. Charles Malik Delivers Address 
Over 900 Notre Dame graduates re­ceived degrees at the University's 107th annua l Commencement Exercises which were held Sunday, June 1, in the Notre Dame Stadium. 
Dr. Charles Malik, Minister of Leb­
anon to the United States and Chair­
man of the United Nations' Commis­
sion on Human Rights, delivered tlie 
commencement address to the 907 
graduates, and received one of the 
seven honorary Doctor of Laws de­
grees awarded by the Universit}'. 
At the Baccalaureate Mass cele­
brated Sunday morning in the Sta­
dium, the Most Rev. Albert F. Cous­
ineau, C.S.C., Coadjutor of Cap 
Haitien, Haiti, and former Superior 
General of the Congregation of Holy 
Cross, pontificated. The Baccalaureate 
Sermon was preached by the Most Rev. 
Patrick A. O'Boyle, Archbishop of 
Washington, D. C. 
Saturday's program included a last 
visit by the graduates to Sacred Heart 
Church; the Class Day Exercises, at 
which time occurred the commission­
ing of ROTC officers and the confer­
ring of medals and awards; an open 
house by the Notre Dame faculty; and 
a reception by the University Adminis­
tration for graduates and their families. 

Among those awarded honorary Doctor of Laws degrees at the Com­mencement Exercises were Dr. MaUk; Bishop Cousineau; Archbishop O'Boyle; Dr. Mortimer J. Adler, noted Chicago educator; Edward J. Doyle, President of the Commonwealth Edi­son Company, Chicago; John P. Mur­phy, President of the Higby Company, Cleveland; and John C. TuUy, of Sa­linas, Calif., Chairman of the Board of the Thomas Moore Association, Chi­cago, 111. 
Speaking on "The American Ques­tion," Dr. Malik declared that the United States must now arise to the challenge of world leadership. (Com­plete text of Dr. Malik's address can be found elsewhere in this issue.) 
Archbishop O'Boyle reminded the graduates in his Baccalaureate Sermon that they lived "in an age which is tviisted out of its true pattern." 
"You have the philosophy which answers this betrayal of the rights of 
God and man," he said. "It will tri­
umph in the conquest of minds by 
truth, and hearts by charity, when you 
hold yourselves aloft as the 'beacons 
of light.' Sons of Our Lady, give to 
your age the pattern of Christ-like men, 
always upholding the message of 
Christ, the Savior of Mankind!" 
Among those who received awards 
at the Class Day Exercises were Alfred 
C. DeCrane, an Arts and Letters Jun­ior, who received the Breen Medal for Oratory, founded by the Hon. William Patrick Breen, '77; Justin C. Bolger, a graduating Senior from the School of Engineering, who was awarded the Leland V. Stanford Prize in Science and Engineering, a prize of $100 con­tributed by Mr. Leland V. Stanford, of New York; Carl L. Carlson, an En­gineering graduate, who received the ' Father Steiner Prize of $50, established in honor of Father Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., former dean of the College of Engineering, by a group of his former students; and Edmund Gohman and Thomas Hampton, 1952 January graduates who shared the Zahm Prize for Aeronautical Engineering, estab­lished by Dr. Albert J. Zahm, '83. 
Other award winners were Lerpy 
C. Brown, a Jime graduate, and Don­ald J. Tufts, a January grad, who won the Vint C. Vaughan Memorial Prizes for Law, established by James Vaughan, '27, and Charies L. Vaughan, '14; Robert M. Parker, who won the Fara­baugh Prize founded by Gallitzan A. Farabaugh, '04; the Indiana Limestone Institute Award winners, Thomas A. Emma, who received the first prize of $250, Eugene Trautman, who received the second prize of $150, and Mark A. Nieman, who received the third prize of $100. 

Awards were also given to John J. Powers, June graduate from the De­partment of Joumahsm, who received the J. Sinnott Meyers Burse, founded by Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Meyers as a memorial to their deceased son, J. Sin­nott Meyers, '20; Joel F. Wells, who received the Hugh A. O'Donnell Gold Medal for Journalism, established by the distinguished journalist in honor 
Fadicr Hesbiush presenting the Hamilton Award to John A. Halter. 
of his deceased brother, James F. O'Donnell; Frank J. Schneider, Arts and Letters graduate, who was award­ed the Donoghue Prize for Thesis on Labor Relations and Problems, estab­lished by Bernard J. Donoghue, '31; and John A. Halter, who received the Hamilton Award, founded by Robert 
L. Hamilton, '34, and James M. Ham­
ilton, '35. Others receiving prizes were Arthur 
A. Schulte, Jr., who was awarded the Hamilton Medal, also established by Robert L. Hamilton, '34, and James 
M. Hamilton, '35; and James J. Walsh, who was awarded the Byron V. Ka­naley Prize of $175, founded by Byron V. Kanaley, '04. 
Prof. Andrew J. Boyle redpient of annual Faculty Award at the June conunencement. 

The world faces many fundamental questions today. There is the question of war or peace, in the general sense of the term. If peace, there is then the question, what sort of peace. Both of these questions raise the issue of the place of Marxism as a doctrine and of the Soviet system as a political reality in the world of the future. Within each country there are great questions of social and economic ad­justment: the masses, what you call the "common men" or the "ordinary people"—and this always means 80 to 90 percent of the population — are more articulate and insistent in their demands than ever before. The great peoples of Asia and Africa are awak­ening, baffling the world with enor­mous issues of accommodation. Then there is of course Europe, weakened and divided internally, and overshad­owed and overwhelmed externally; but neither the pride and traditions of Europe, for thousands of years the mother of so much civilization and the centre of so much history, nor the actual requirements of world peace, can accept an impotent Europe, play­ing from now on always second fiddle in the scale of things. 
Those of us who face the future — those of us who have a future to face 
— must resign ourselves to wrestling with these issues all our life. The ris­ing East, the Slavic world, Marxist Communism, the mighty social fer­ment, and the ordeals of Europe, are tremendous questions which — so far as we can now pierce the unknown — we are going to live with for a very long time to come. We are all plunged into a world not of our own choosing in which our existence is riddled through and through by these issues. And he today who seeks escape from the East, or from Russia, or from Europe, or from the din of the masses, into some kind of a placid and pro­tected existence outside this world of danger and trouble, is literally seeking the impossible. 
There is another issue that is just as great as these. In fact, there are some who consider it even greater. This is the issue of America: her destiny and her meaning to the rest of the world. 
So crucial has America become for Asia, for Russia, and for Europe, that a European thinker has recently sug­gested that since the people in Europe seem just as interested in the forthcom­



Dr. Malik's Text 
^^The Ameriean Questfon 99 
Americans themselves, it might be in­structive to conduct a Gallup poll in Europe concerning the man whom the Europeans would like to see the next President of the United States. 
When people abroad wonder, there­fore, about United States policy and intentions, when they enquire into how the mind of America is likely to de­velop, they are simply evincing a deep concern for their own fate. In one im­portant sense, there are no more inde­pendent fates: we all sink or swim together. 
It is not for me to determine the content of the American message; but while you may afford perhaps not to inquire into the total meaning of this or that country, say in Latin America or in the Middle East or in Europe, and while some Americans may per­haps afford not to be particularly con­cerned about the meaning of their own nation, there is no other country, there are no thinking people abroad, who are' not constantly faced today with the basic American question: ' what does America, what must America, mean to the world? No responsible non-American today can afford not to meditate as deeply as possible upon this tremendous question. If to medi­tate on a similar question with respect to any other country may mean to meddle in the affairs of that country, certainly, since so much depends upon the United States, to meditate on this question is not to meddle at all. 
America means freedom: no arbi­trary compulsion from outside, the autonomous determination of idea and action from within. This is a great message, especially now as there is a real contest between freedom and slav­ery throughout the world, and espe­cially as in many instances the fron­tiers of freedom, both geographical and intellectual, have had to recede. For years to come, the gospel of free self­detenoination will be one of the most 
ing American presidential elections as Dr. Charles Malik and Father Cavamq^ at '52 ( jjotent weapons in the war of ideas, and nothing looms so clearly and de­cisively in the horizons of statesman­ship as the sincere and active attempt at helping to liberate peoples and cul­tures from Communist bondage. 
But freedom is not the end of human life. After I become free, the question remains: what should I strive after, what and whom can I believe, what may I hope for, what must I be? For it is possible to be "free" and yet to miss the end of life altogether. 
The crying need, therefore, is for a deeper, a more grounded and more responsible, elaboration of the content of the free life. One must be honest with the enslaved peoples — whether enslaved politically or spiritually — in telling them that freedom is not the end but the beginning of a life of effort and development whose general character can nevertheless be traced in advance. Freedom is the immediate goal, but the distant lure is nothing short of the full realization of all that properly belongs to man. Thus the promise must be made clear, that the end is a universal human fellowship in which nothing that is possible — ma­terially, socially, spiritually^—shall re­main for long unrealized. 
America means independence: that people need not be ruled by aliens, that diverse cultures can develop each ac­cording to its own inner genius. This is a great message, instilling hope and self-confidence in the heart of the weak and helpless, especially at a time when mighty new forces, both ma­terial and spiritual, are threatening the independence of peoples from every side. 
But, first of all, independence may not mean peace, unless to start with it is founded upon principles of peace; for the independent units may either fall out with one another or combine against the rest of the world. Secondly, what if certain peoples or cultures can­not be really independent? Thirdly, in our amazingly shrunken world the need is as much for a declaration of interdependence as for one of inde­pendence. And fourthly, people crave as much for fellowship as for being alone, and the urge at community and love is no less real and good than any impulse at individualism. 
The need, therefore, is to work out conditions of true fellowship under which people will gladly seek the com­pany of the just. Let me only feel that I am included in truth and jus­tice and on the basis of respect, and you can forget about my "independ­ence." The cry for independence is fundamentally a protest because the right mutuality of dependence has not yet been realized. Whatever the im­pact of America might be, certainly in­dependence must be rigorously tem­pered with the promotion of com­munity, cooperation, the habit of sub­ordinating the local and partial to the requirements of the larger good. 
Because there has been some misun­derstanding abroad of the content of American independence, it seems nec­essary to elucidate precisely how an act of independence in the 18th cen­tury' is radically different from a simi­lar act in the 20th, and to make it as plain as possible that political inde­pendence is one thing, and independ­ence in the realm of culture and spirit is entirely another. So long as there is objective, given, cumulative truth, we cannot be spiritually independent of one another. If oceans and poles can, for a time, physically separate America from the old world, the intellectual and spiritual roots of this land all go back to Europe and the Mediterranean. And the supreme question today is pre­cisely to rediscover, reaffirm and re­establish this great spiritual commu­nity e.xtending temporarily for thou­sands of years. 
America means democracy: that the citizens of the commonwealth them­selves elect and dismiss their own rul­ers, and that the laws have no respect for persons, precisely by equally re­specting the inherent himianity of all persons. This is a great message, stressing as it does the dignity of the individual, afiSrming the primacy of the p»eople, providing a mechanism for the avoidance of tyranny, bracketing all people under the beneficient pro­tection of the law. 
But even the most perfect design of government is but a formal structure within which men may seek fullness of being. Nor is it certain that if the en­tire world were democratized, wars will cease. What if two peoples, each fully democratic in its form of govern­ment, keep on fundamentally hating each other or coveting each other's goods? What if two total outlooks fundamentally contradict each other? Democracy is a great thing, but it is neither the only nor the greatest thing for which man hungers. And there are peoples who, preferring to develop other values than the political, are not much bothered by who rules them, provided they feel they are sufficiently cared for, loved and protected. 
America can be justiy proud of what its democracy has been able to achieve. The rest of the world, however, thirsts for something infinitely deeper than freedom, democracy and independence; and when it inquires into the Amer­ican message, it wonders how America is going to blossom in these deeper things. 
James E. Aimstiong, Alumni Assodation Sccretaiy, receiviig a check for $10,000 bom Jack Sullivan, fonner president of die Notre Dame Qub of St. Louis, on bdialf of club. 
America means technology: the rea­
soned exploitation of the resources of 
nature for the benefit of man. This is 
indeed a great contribution, consider­
ing the millions and millions of people 
throughout the world who are helpless 
before the forces of nature, and for 
whom a slight improvement in tech­
nique will mean a more abundant life. 
But technology may be bought at a 
high price: the attenuation of the 
spirit. The inordinate concentration 
upon material and economic condi­
tions inevitably leads to the blurring 
of the original sources of the spirit; 
sources that are utterly independent 
of all things material. A man who 
spends all his life exploring and con­
trolling nature may end by thinking 
other human beings as just nature to 
be controlled. Nor is a technologically 
perfect world necessarily a good one; 
for it may still be full of hatred and 
fear and lust, and the stature of man 
may be considerably diminished in it." 
In the positive American tradition there are deeper things than technol­ogy. There are adventure and self-confidence; there is the zest of discov­ery and the joy of creation; there is mutual helpfulness and self-giving; there is an implicit trust in reason and discussion; and there is a committing of one's self to the Providence of God. It is these things that made technology possible in the first place. And while, if I were an American, I would be justly proud of the infinite techniques that my civilization has created, I would nevertheless seek first to under­stand and love the original creative spirit itself, in its joy and in its unity. 
• America means action: a premium upon practical objective realization, the passage of idea into fact This is a wonderful message, considering how much there is still to be done for the betterment of man's lot, and consider­ing that whole cultures have been ar­rested precisely because either they could not discriminate bet\veen fantasy and fact or because even the true idea remained forever in the head. Bold­ness to decide, to act, to bring delibera­tion to an end — nothing can be more wonderful than all this. 
But it is evident that action itself must have an end. Nor can we pass restlessly from action to action if we are to remain human. Action pursued for its own sake leads inevitably to the worship of power; and power cor­rupts. Thus where and how to rest — 
that is the question. The old world 
stands to learn infinitely from the ac­
tive American life; but now and then 
it asks itself the question: where does 
it all lead to? 
The real justification is not action, 
nor the accumulation of material 
things but the creation of supreme 
human character made perfect through 
suffering; and such character — mel­
lowed, wise, deep, understanding, lov­
ing— is impossible without rest in 
truth and God. Nothing is more need­
ful than to balance action by thought 
and wisdom, movement by being and 
by the pause that seems the eternal. 
The old world, while deeply grateful 
for American activism and pragmatism, 
must nevertheless assert that all action 
must conform to pre-established prin­
ciples that are lucid through and 
through to reason, and that the great­
est "use" of thought is not just to pro­
duce useful things, but to help develop 
men of wisdom and understanding and 
truth; men whose existence is its own 
justification and without whom no cul­
ture can live and prosper. 
Freedom, independence, democracy, 
technology, action — these things be­
long to the wisdom of America; a real 
and positive wisdom. The rest of the 
world must understand that this is part 
of the total meaning hailing them from 
this side. It is a much-needed tonic, 
a fresh breeze of hope. 
These things would have had a freer course of development if America had not had to come out into the world. As you assume greater and greater re­sponsibilities and become more and more entangled abroad, it is inevitable that your values will be pondered, weighed, questioned. You will find yourselves limited by other valuations and other points of view. Asia, Africa, the Middle East, the Slavic world, Europe, Latin America — all these cul­tures have also their own words to utter. And the question is how to listen to all these words, how to merge cooperatively and harmoniously with all these cultures, without either losing heart or compromising one's own soul. 
Is there any doubt that both the deepest in the American tradition and the present desperate moment in his­tory require that America, having solved the problem of nature and of government, and having integrated a whole continent, should now rise, in all humility and truth, to the challenge of leadership, to the end that, drawing the 
sustenance of her leadership from her finest Christian traditions, and striking in her mess^e the vein of the univer­sal, she may stress, not so much the material and formal conditions of ex­istence, as the intellectual, moral and spiritual perfections of man? What is needed is depth, respect for the law of nature, emphasis upon equality and being, trust in reason and in its ab­solute ability to grasp and articulate the truth, a divine sense of humour, and above all, strength through faith: faith in the real living God and in all that He has concretely and authentic­ally meant in history. There is neither life nor meaning apart from Him, and I believe that America, having been so much blessed by God, and owing so much direcdy to Christ,' cannot in the maturation of her meaning to the world possibly forget Him. 
Ed Murray Resigns N.D. Post 
Edwaid J. Mtnnqr 

The resignation of Edward J. Mur­ray as director of persoimel at Notre. Dame was announced recentiy by Rev. 
Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C, executive vice-president of the University. 
He will become office manager of the Bob Erath Company, South Bend wholesale sporting goods firm. Father Joyce said no one has been appointed to succeed Mr. Murray. 
After serving in World War 11 as a lieutenant commander in the navy, he was named director of student ac­counts at Notre Dame, a position he held until February, 1951, when he was named director of personnel. 
and later, movies, moot court finals, and a cocktail party given by the Law 

Alumni Board Decides Plans 
Alimmi Association. 
A number of projects were discussed 

and agreed upon at a meeting of the 
Board of Directors of the Alumni Asso­
ciation, held during the annual Re­
union Weekend early this June. 
It was further decided at the meet­

ing, attended by all but Lester Foley 
and R. Conroy Scoggins, that the Okla­
homa game on November 8 would be 
the occasion for the fall meeting of 
the board. 
Among the decisions reached was 

the necessity of intensifying the public 
relations program. John Courmey, '25, 
suggested that professional leaders in 
club localities be cultivated and 
brought to Notre Dame when possible, 
to talk to groups in their fields. 
In this connection, Harvey G. Fos­

ter's idea of a Dean's Committee was 
discussed, and it was generally decided 
to keep the contact unofficial, with a 
memoranda to Deans when amthing 
specific was indicated. Deans would be 
Ten N.D. Classes Return To Campus For Reunion 
Annual Banquet Climaxes Weekend 

Reunion Weekend early in June was highlighted by the return of over 750 graduates from the classes of '02, '07, '12, '17, '22, '27, '32, '37, '42, and '47, together with a special reunion of old St. Joe Hallers. 
The returning alumni attended a number of activities given by their re­spective classes and played golf on Friday, June 6, then joined the group Saturday for a series of planned events. Mass in Sacred Heart Church ended the weekend Sunday morning. 
Dinners and buffet suppers were nu­merous on Friday night. The class of '07 had an informal supper, and the class of '12 attended a buffet dinner in the golf lounge of the Morris Inn. The class of '17 had their buffet in the Ironwood Drive home of Bernard VoU, while Harold Weber hosted an after­noon meeting and evening buffet at his home on Diamond Lake for the class of '22. '27 grads celebrated their Silver Jubilee at a Twenty-Five-Year Reunion Dinner in the Morris Inn, the class of '37 chose the Rockne Memo­kept in contact with the Board through such groups as the Bar Association. The subject of a possible list of campus speakers and their topics was brought up, and Father Murphy agreed to have such a list drawn up, with the clubs particularly in mind. 
Preparatory school relations will be augmented by the Manual for Alumni, now in preparation. A stress of the need for selection of best students, and geographical and departmental candi­dates was agreed upon. 
It was also decided to have a letter­head for Board use, with names and addresses of the Board on it, and that the President of the Association would express greetings and the offer of co­operation to the new Administration. 
On occasion, it was decided, a Presi­dent's Page might give the Board a stronger channel for stressing a pro­gram or policy. Mr. Foster agreed to write one as a start. 
class of '47 had a dinner at Rosie's Sunny Italy. 
Saturday morning began with class Masses and class pictures, with golf and elections of class officers for the ensuing five years filling out the morn­ing. At noon there was the President's Luncheon for the 25-year class in the Faculty dining room of the dining hall. 
The climax of the weekend came Saturday night, with the Annual Alum­ni Banquet, a testimonial dinner for Father Cavanaugh. Golf prizes were awarded, medals were given to the 50­year class, and the reports of Alumni Association officers were delivered. 
Rare Books Presented to ND Library by Bishop O'Hara 
A rare book, autographed by its then anonymous author, the famous Bishop John P. Lynch of Charleston, South Carolina, written in Italian and published privately while Bishop Lynch was the official delegate to the Papacy from the Confederate States, has been presented to the University of Notre Dame Library. The inmnediate donor is Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, Archbishop of Philadelphia, but the book was given recently to Archbishop O'Hara by Very Rev. Urban de Hasque, Oklahoma City, who received an honorary doctorate of laws from Notre Dame in 1918. The Archbishop asked to have the book conmiitted to the University Library for safe pres­ervation. 
The book, small and well preserved, is entitled "Letter of a Missionary on Domestic Slavery in the Confederate States of America," and was issued in 1864. 
William J. Sherry, '21, of Tuba, OUahoma, fonner member of the Alumni Board, 
rial Lounge for their buffet, and the 
with his wife and fine large family. 
12 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Text of Reunion Mass Sermon Father Murphy Gave Alumni 
"Go, therefore and make disciples of all nations teaching them to observe all that I commanded you And behold, I am with you all days, even unto the consummation of the world." 
—From the gospel of the Mass for Trinity Sunday 

This past week at Notre Dame has been an eventful and meaningful one. It began on last Sunday, the feast of Pentecost, with the graduation of one of the University's largest classes. Nine hundred seven bachelors' and ad­vanced degrees were conferred at cere­monies held in the Stadium. At mid­week we had here in Sacred Heart Church the ordination of a small group of priests for the Congregation of Holy Cross and — ultimately, we hope — for the University. Beginning Thursday there were held successively here on campus meetings of Alumni Club Presidents from all over the country, of the Alumni Board of Di­rectors, and finally the general Alumni Reunion. 
And as the week opened with a re­ligious observance, the Field Mass in the Stadium and the Baccalaureate Sermon, so it is fittingly brought to a close with this Mass in honor of the Most Blessed Trinity, commemorative of the basic dogma of our Faith. 
It was impressed on the new gradu­ates in Archbishop O'Boyle's sermon to them last Sunday, just as it had been impressed upon them during the four years of their studies, just as it was impressed on you in your own under­graduate days and as you have been reminded frequently in word and in writing since then, that Notre Dame and other Catholic colleges and uni­versities have a different philosophy of education: that it is important to teach men, not merely how to make a living, but how to live. Along with this philosophy of education there was pre­sented the challenge to moral, re­sponsible leadership. 
Looking back, you will recall how this classroom teaching was bolstered by the very religious atmosphere which surrounded you; by the hall chapels with the opportunity they offered for frequent confession and Communion; by the towering spire of Sacred Heart Church; by the all-pervasive influence of the Lady on the Dome; and by the quiet peace you experienced in visits to Her grotto. In more recent years, this classroom teaching was furthered as well by the multiple forms of Catho­lic Action practiced here on campus. And last Wednesday's ordination in Sacred Heart Church may serve as a reminder of your own lay priesthood to which you were admitted by reception of the sacrament of Confirmation. 
The lessons in Catholic living were presented to you as a matter of obli­gation for incorporation in your pri­vate lives, first of all. But.you were taught as well that Catholicity and re­ligion must be reflected in your public lives, in the manner of conducting yourselves as members of society. This Catholic living was to be mirrored first of all in the close intimacy of your family circle. It was to be reflected as well in your participation in parish activity. Occasionally, criticism is lev­eled against Notre Dame men or Notre Dame clubs for failure to cooperate in parish life and action. Notre Daihe men, whether as individuals or as members of local clubs, should never let this be said of them, since they have been taught to realize and ap­preciate the fact that parish activity comes immediately after the individual family life in order of importance of promotion of the Catholic way of living. 
The philosophy and teaching you received here at Notre Dame should find its expression in the business, pro­fessional, and social circles in which you move also. And even in the larger spheres of civic, state, national and in­ternational society to which you may be called in the course of your lifetime. 
As for the challenge to moral, re­sponsible leadership, it is indisputable that never before has the need for this leadership been so great as it is today. A study of our daily papers will con­vince anyone of this. A study of the modem way of life, whether in family, business, professional or pmlitical cir­cles, further highlights the need. Everywhere immorality, materialism, secularism, atheism, socialism, com­munism are on the offensive. God is more and more passing out of our way of life; Christ is more and more dis­apfiearing from the civilization that we continue to call Christian. 
Each one of us should examine his conscience this morning here in God's presence to see how we have incorpor­ated that philosophy in our own lives, to see whether we have measured up to the challenge of moral, responsible leadership. Sometimes Notre Dame men are tempted to smugness and complacency in view of the many fine 
(Continued on page 16) 

One diocesan and three Holy Cross priests were oidaincd in Sacred Heart Chnrch Joae 4, by Bishop Couaoean of HaitL 
Amg.Sept^ 1952 
Cross Country 
(Low Score Wins) 

Notre Dame 

Notre Dame 25 Wheaton 32 1951-52 Scores Wisconsin 36, Notre Dame 44, Mar­quette 49. 
Notre Dame 35 Pittsburgh .24 Football 25 Purdue 33 Indiana 32, Notre Dame 42, Purdue 55 
Won 7, Lost 2, Tied 1 Loyola Invitational — Notre Dame 32, 
Notre Dame 48 Indiana -6 40 Detroit 6 WTieaton 61, Loyola 76 20 SMU 27 
Notre Dame 29 Michigan State 26 
33 Pittsburgh 0 

CCC at Kalamazoo—Notre Dame first
" 30 Purdue 9 " 19 Navy 0 NCAA at E. Lansing—^Notre Dame 11th. 
0 Michigan State -.35 " 12 North Carolina 7 20 Iowa 20 " 19 Southern Calif. ....12 
Baseball 
Won 13, Lost 12 

Notre Dame 1 Camp Breckenridge 4
Basketball 
(rain) 4 Fort Knox 6
Won 16, Lost 10. 
Fort Knox (rain) 

Notre Dame 71 St. Thomas 37 
2 Iowa 7 
75 Wabash 46 
2 Iowa 3 
63 Wisconsin 53 
5 Ohio State 8 
65 Northwestern 54 
3 Ohio State 1 
77 Loyola 57 
4 Ohio State 1 
83 Pennsylvania 78 
0 Michigan 3 
54 Indiana 67 

3 Purdue 2 64 Purdue 54 
7 Quantico ......17 52 Michigan State . 66 
1 Quantico 8 
59 Louisville 65 
1 N'westem (11) .... 2 
55 Butler 49 
18 Pittsburgh 3 
74 Marquette 56 
9 Pittsburgh 4 
56 Michigan State 48 
0 W. Michigan 4 
72 Canisius 59 
4 Michigan State 2 
55 Pittsburgh 62 
3 Great Lakes 1 
66 Kentucky 71 
1 Wisconsin 3 
75 Northwestern 69 
13 Wisconsin 5 
50 Marquette 57 
8 W. Michigan 10 
58 S t Louis ..... ...80 
12 Cincinnati . 2 
52 Butler 48 
Purdue (rain) 
76 DePaul 70 
20 Northwestern 4 
60 Pittsburgh 62 
Michigran (rain) 
58 Navy 67 
Great Lakes (rain) 
75 NYU (overtime) 74 
ICch. State (13).... 4 
66 Pennsylvania 67 
Indiana 1 
78 DePaul 77 
Indiana 3 
Tennis 
Indoor Track ' 

Notre Dame 6 Wisconsin 3 " 5 Northwestern 4 MUwaukee Belays—no points awarded. 
" 7 Purdue 2 Notre Dame 52 2/3, Michigan State " 2 Indiana 7 611/3. 8 Detroit 1 
Notre Dame 74 2/3, Missouri 39 1/3. 
4 West Michigan .... 5 " 9 Marquette 0 Michigan State Relays — no points " 6 Iowa 3 awarded. 7 Michigan 2 
Notre Dame 73 9/10, Marquette 30 7/10, 
" 1 Michigan State 7 
Michigan Normal 24 2/5. 

Notre Dame 60, Indiana 54. 
Central CoUegiates—Notre Dame first with 45 7/10 points. 
• 
Outdoor Track 

Texas Relays—^no points awarded. Indiana 81, Notre Dame 51, Purdue 36. Drake Relays—no points awarded. Notre Dame 60, Pittsburgh 71. Notre Dame 84, Michigan Normal 41%, 
Bradley 36j^. Notre Dame 39/2. Michigan 92/-. Indiana State Meet—Indiana first, No­
tre Dame second. Closed CCC at Michigan Normal—^No­tre Dame first. Open CCC at Milwaukee—Notre- Dame third. 
GoK 

Won 8, Lost 3, Tied 1. Notre Dame I8/2 Indiana „. 8/2 17 Purdue 19 20/a Wisconsin I5/2 9 Louisville 9 12/2 Wisconsin I4/2 8 / Valparaiso 3 ^ 12 Loyola 0 I6/2 Bradley .IO/2 9/2 Northwestern . 17}^ 28/2 Iowa 4/2 I6/2 Michigan State ..13/2 19 Detroit 8 
Fencing 
Won 9, Lost 2 

Notre Dame 21 Case 6 13 Michigan State ....14 16 Ohio State 11 15 Iowa 12 19 Northwestern 8 " 16 Wisconsin 11 " 11 Illinois 16 " 20 Chicago 7 19 Detroit 8 19 Louisville 8 21 Cincinnati 6 NCAA at New Haven—Notre Dame 11th 
Football Previeur 
By Charlie Callahan, '38 
Jack McAllister, Superintendent of Equipment, veteran sage of the Notre Dame athletic department, has his torn T-shirts in order. And when a husky 200-pound sophomore tackle candidate indicates that the T-shirt is not quite what he expected, ."Mac" has his stock answer ready: "Look, bub, this was good enough for Carideo, so I guess it'll be good enough for you." 
Gene Paszkiet, the new trainer, who is taking over for the departed Hughie Bums, has ordered his 10 miles of tape and all the other accessories needed to keep the lads healthy. 
Herb Jones and Bob Cahill, on the ticket side of the picture, are already starting to shake their heads in nega­tive fashion, even when one is simply about 'to ask a harmless question con­cerning perhaps the time of day, or the weather. All of which would indi­cate that business once again is good. 
Joe Dierickx stated that the turf in the stadium is ready. Pat Single­ton sez ditto about Cartier Field. There is an ample supply of groceries in the dining hall to provide for the wants at the training table, according to Dave Ford. 
In other words, it is getting close to the first week of September, and al­most post time with reference to start­ing preparations for Notre Dame's 64th football season. 
But what about the most important man of all, the fellow who is starting his 10th season as director of destinies for the gridiron Fighting Irish. That, of course, would be the fellow who is regarded, respected or envied (depend­ing on the point of view, be you friend or foe) as the outstanding football coach in the country—^Frank Leahy. 
The Coach should be happy, but he isn't. He should be happy in the knowl­edge that the pre-season magazine grid­iron analysts are not picking Notre Dame for the mythical national cham­pionship even before the first game is played. Matter of fact, the Leahyites are being rated quite a way down the ladder. So, why is the Coach unhappy? The answer is simple. He is most fear­ful that the experts are right. 
He knows that he has a couple of pretty fair hands in the backfield de­partment in Johnny Lattner, right halfback, and Neil Worden, fullback, both juniors. He knows that with ade­quate blocking such halfback young­sters as Joe Heap, Paul Reynolds and Frank Paterra could do a bit of run­ning, or leather-toting, as the saying goes. He knows that a couple of 19­year-old sophomores, Ralph Guglielmi and Tom Carey, might be fairly good quarterbacks if there were a good line available to compensate for their lack of game experience. 
Leahy, like his co-worker. Athletic Director Ed (Moose) Krause, was a lineman during his playing days at Notre Dame. Both were tackles, to be specific. Both are very much aware that the vote still comes out seven-to­foiu' as to which is the more valuable— a good line, or a good backfield. 
Consequently, when it is stated that the Coach is unhappy, it can be ex­plained that he is aware that the Irish do have backfield possibilities, but a weak line ; . . weak offensive line to get down to pin-pK)int actualities.. And any coach knows that good backs will die on the vine (not to mention at the line' of scrimmage) without a good forward wall. 
On the credit side of the picture, the Notre Darners should be slightly im­proved defensively, as a goodly number of those who earned monograms in 1951 as defenders are returning. But unfortunately, as the Coach points out, games, for the most part are won on offense. To add to the gloom of the man who has the greatest winning rec­ord of all modem collegiate coaches is the fact that his charges are facing what a majority of folks consider to be the most formidable schedule ever at­tempted by a Notre Dame team. 
In actuality, Leahy and his assist­ants are still trying to rebuild from the great exodus which followed the 1949 
Qnartabadi Raliih Gi^Iieliiii 

season — after which ten of the first eleven, and 17 of the top 22 were graduated. Winning streaks in sports come in cycles, as is a well known fact. After the late Knute Rbckne, in his final campaign, had an undefeated, un­tied season in 1930, it was 11 years before the Irish had an unbeaten, though once tied, slate, in 1941, and it was 17 years, 1947, before anothier aS winniag record "was written inte the books. From the standpoint of wish­ful thinking, however, it is nice to re­member that Frank Leahy was the coach in' 1941 (his first year at the helm), and also in 1947. So, despite the admonitions of Leahy, we at least can hope, keep our fimgeis crossed, etc., as we. approach the '52 season. 
19S2 NOTRE DAME 
FpOIBAU SOOUIE 

Sept. 27—Pennsylvania (there) Oct. 4—T«!xas (there) 
. 11—Pittsburgh (here) 
18—Purdue (there) 
25—North Carolina (here) 

Nov. 1—Navy (Cleveland) 
8—Oklahoma (here) 
15—Michigan State (there) 
22—Iowa (there) 
29-—Southern California (here) 
Ang.Sept^ 1952 
Father Murphy's Sermon 
(Continued from page 5) 

things said of Notre Dame, of her graduates and of the clubs to which they belong. You must remember that affiliation with Notre Dame does not necessarily mean that you are an ex­emplary Catholic in your private and public lives, that you are e.xercising this moral, responsible leadership. Af­filiation with Notre Dame means only that you are equipped to live the truly Catholic life, to accept the challenge to moral, responsible leadership. It means, further, that you have an ob­ligation to do so. And it means, above all, that everyone who recognizes your affiliation with Notre Dame realizes that you are under this obligation. 
We pray daily, many times a day: "adveniat regnum tuum"—"Thy king­dom come. Thy will be done, on earth as it is in Heaven." This prayer of Our Divine Savior teaches us that we must work as well as pray, in order to make the expression of our hopes an actuality. Similarly, the command of Christ expressed in this morning's gos­pel "Go, therefore, and make disciples of all nations . . . teaching them "to observe all that I commanded you"— was intended, not merely for the new­ly ordained priests, not only for the newly graduated alumni of last Sun­day, but for you alumni as well who have been out of school five, ten, twenty, twenty-five years. 
The challenge of moral, responsible 

The die for this medal awarded by Louis­ville Club to winners of high school essay contest may be obtained from club presi­dent William H. Bosler. 
leadership, the incorporation in our private and public lives of this Chris­tian, Catholic philosophy, are not easy things. Often they are most difficult and extremely irksome. But the im­portant thing to remember is that in accepting this challenge, in living out this philosophy of life, we are not on our own. Our Blessed Lady, who con­tinues to manifest a kindly and pro­tective interest in her former students, is with us. The Divine Son she brought forth to redeem and save the world is wt h us. And the other Per­sons of the Blessed Trinity—the Father Who created us, the Holy Spirit Who e-xists to guide, enlighten and strength­en men—are with us "all days even to the consummation of the world." With Them on our side, victory is confident­ly assured! 
Renew then your good resolutions this morning in the presence of Our Blessed Lady and of the Three Divine Persons of the Blessed Trinity. Ask Them for the continuing grace and strength to meet the challenge, to live in all things the philosophy that has been taught you. 
It was good having had our alumni with us during these past few days. Father Cavanaugh and all the mem­bers of the Adininbtration appreciate your coming, and have enjoyed the opportunities afforded of visiting with you. As you prepare to leave the cam­pus this morning, it is our prayer that the Sacred Heart of Jesus and His Blessed Mother abide in you. And may you and all your loved ones con­tinue to abide in Them and in Their love today and forever, a blessing which I wsh you all! 
Utilities 

(Continued from page 5) the present. The project was designed by die Albert Lahn Associated Archi­tects & Engineers, Inc., of Detroit, working in conjunction with Brother Borromeo, C.S.C., superintendent of the power plant. 
The new water tower is being erected by the Chicago Bridge and Iron Construction Company at a cost of approximately $138,000. It will hold 500,000 gallons of water supplied by three major wells, and stands 183 feet high, 150 feet to the bottom of the tank. At present there are two systems which supply Notre Dame with an average of a million gallons of water each day, one utilizing lake water, and the other using water from wells. The new tower will put the campus on one system, and will pump water from the wells, as well as store it in the tank. One important benefit from this new system is that for the first time in the history of Notre Dame, students will be able to get pure drinking water from the faucets in their rooms. 
(L. to R.) Joe Donaldson, Contest Chairman; John C. Hughes, St Xavier H. S.; Robert F. Linton, Flaget H. S.; Bill Bosler, Club President 
Doctor of Laws Degree Given Cardinal Gilroy of Australia 
The University of Notre Dame re­cently conferred an honorary degree. Doctor of Laws, on His Eminence, Nor­man Thomas Cardinal Gilroy, Arch­bishop of Sydney, Australia. The de­gree was conferred at a special convo­cation held in Sacred Heart Church on the campus in the presence of 800 summer school students and of the University faculty. The Very Rev. Theodore Mehling, C.S.C., Provincial of the Indiana Province of the Priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and the Very Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., newly appointed Presi­dent of the University, presided. The sitation accompanying the degree stressed Cardinal Gilroy's deep and kindly concern for the poor and afflict­ed, his untiring efforts for the growth of the Catholic Church in Australia, and his great patriotism. 
Cornerstone Laid Recently 

Cornerstone-laying ceremonies for the new L A. O'Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts were held at the University on May 24, one day after the 92-room Morris Inn was for­mally dedicated. 
The dual ceremonies were attended by leading businessmen from all parts of the country, who were at Notre Dame for a combined meeting of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees and the Advisory Councils for Science and Engineering and for the College of Commerce. 
Mr. O'Shaughnessy, of St. Paul, Minn., President of the Globe Oil and Refining Company, was at Notre Dame for the ceremony, in which the prin­cipal address was delivered by Dr. Mortimer J. Adler, well-known edu­cator from Chicago. A member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees, Mr. O'Shaughnessy's benefaction made the new building possible. 
Dr. Adler, speaking on "The Liberal 

SPECIAL EVENTS —FOOTBALL 
Texas-ND, October 4. Friday evening rally and dance at DiukiU Hold, Austin, Texas, will precede game. $3.60 per person. Make resen-ations with Bert Maloncy, 201 San Jacinto, Austin. 
Furdue-ND, October 18. Open house, buffet from 11:00 to 1:00 on day of gante at Fowler Hotel, Lafayette, Ind. $2.50 per person. Make reserv-ations with M. J. Ferriteil, 1st Merchants Bank & Trust Co., Lafayette. 
r r 
^m^m 

Student guides such as (L. to R.) Dick Aimstnmg and Bob Haine gave infoimatiaa to many of the 25,000 visitors to the campus this i 
Arts in the Development of the West-­em World," declared that the new Lib­eral and Fine Arts building "should be the entrance to Notre Dame." All students, regardless of what specializa­tion or vocation they may contemplate, should first pass through this building, he said. 
All other education should be post­poned until the student has first com­pleted a liberal arts education, he con­tinued, and pointed out that the role of a basic education which provides man with the incentive for further learning is well-filled by the liberal arts. 
A liberal arts education. Dr. Adler added, should be the same for every student, regardless of education. 
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former President of Notre Dame, agreed on the importance of the liberal arts as a basis for all further education, and stated that the central position of the CShaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Hall on the campus sym­bolized the system of training at Notre Dame, in which the liberal and fine arts are the center, extending even into the Colleges of Law, Science, Ei^ ­neering and Commerce. 
Philadelphia ND Alumni Club Announces . . . 
Friday. Sept. 2& 8:30 p.B. 'tfl 1:00 aja.— 
Gala FootlBlI Farty (Notre DaBK-Foa 
gaaw) BdlniK-Stiatfaid Hotd Graad 
BaUnnai, ooracr of Broad ft Walnat Sta. 
EatcTtaiaaMat, cdekitiei, good tiBe— 
IZJO Dcr oaioa. 
Satnrdar. Sept. 27. 5:30-7:30 p.K.—CodtuI party—Warwick Hold Graad BalbnaB. I7th k Locatt Sti. ^.00 per penoa. 
ALimNI AND FRIENDS AKE INVTTED 

Laetare Medalist Phelan and '-
Scoggins Honored by Pope 
Mr. John H. Phelan, 1951 Laetare Medalist, and Mrs. Phelan were re­cently named by Pope Pius XII to the Order of the Holy Sepulchre. Mr. Conroy Scoggins, '24, Honorary Presi­dent of the Notre Dame Alumni Asso­ciation, also has been named to the order. 
Percentage of Participation And Contribution by Classes 
Percentage *Numbcr Number Amount Average Class Participating in Class Contributing Contributed Contribution 
1927  ..... 31.1  437  136  $12,163.66  $ 89.44  
1907  „  . .. 30.0  30  9  390.00  43.33  
1921  ._.. 28.4  134  38  2,204.00  58.00  
1951  ..... 27.6  946  261  7,829.00  30.00  
1949  ..... 27.4  1443  395  3,975.62  10.06  
1925  ..... 26.5  373  99  3,605.00  36.41  
1913  25.3  75  19  1,260.00  66.32  
1904  ...  25.0  40  10  2,650.00  265.00  
1918  . .. 25.0  96  24  1,335.00  55.63  
1915  ..... 24.7  97  24  1,054.31  43.93  
1903  24.2  33  8  225.00  28.13  
1901  23.8  21  5  115,00  23.00  
1909  ..... 23.3  60  14  5,480.00  391.43.  
1942  .._. 22.7  595  135  2,200.00  16.30  
1952  ..._  22.7  950  216  851.25  3.94  
1944  22.6  536  121  2,054.55  16.98  
1917  ..... 22.2  117  26  6,329.00  243.42  
1948  ..... 22.1  1079  238  2,425.00  10.19  
1947  ..... 21.8  746  163  •*501,855.50  11.38  
1941  21.6  629  136  2,152,00  15.82  
1931  ..... 21.5  582  125  9,533,14  76.27  
1950  21.3  1203  256  2,481.02  9.69  
1933  21.3  578  123  3,260.70  26.51  
1924  .  21.2  274  58  2,317.00  39.95  
1937  21.2  500  106  1,856.00  17.51  
1940  _... 20,9  707  148  3,948.35  26.68  
1932  ..... 20.9  578  121  3,309,00  27.35  
1930  ..... 20.4  544  111  2,493,25  22.46  
1939  ..... 20.2  600  121  2,350,00  19.42  
1934  ..... 20,1  577  116  2,756.00  23.76  
1922  ..... 20,0  210  42  2,149,32  51.17  
1938  ..... 20,0  560  112  2,060.96  18.40  
1936  . ._  _... 19.7  457  90  1,851.50  20.57  
1928  19.5  488  95  2,493,50  26.25  
1935  .„... 19.3  559  108  2,791.50  25.85  
1943  .... 19.0  620  118  1,887.50  16.00  
1914  .... 18.9  111  21  830.00  39.52  
1923  .... 18.8  260  49  6,455.17  131.74  
1926  .... 18.4  316  58  4,433.50  76.44  
1945  .... 17.9  330  59  738,00  12.51  
1910  ..._  .... 16.3  43  7  1,175,00  167.86  
1905  .. 16.2  37  6  465,00  77.50  
1929  ...„  .... 16.1  533  86  7,207.42  83.81  
1912  .... 15.9  88  14  3,880.00  277.14  
1946  _.. 15.8  330  52  697.50  13.41  
1908  .... 15.6  45  7  370,00  52.86  
1919  .... 15.5  84  13  385.00  29.62  
1920  .... 15.4  123  19  1,962.00  103.26  
1911  .... 15.1  93  14  2,267.50  161.96  
1902  .... 14.7  34  5  80.00  16.00  
1916  _  _...... 13.2  91  12  638.00  53.17  
1900 211:1 before. ... 11.4  201  23  5,925.00  257.61  
1906  10.4  48  5  1,095.00  219.00  

* Exclusive of religious and deceased. 

Prof. Sheehan Retains His Chamber of Commerce Post 
Professor John H. Sheehan,' Head of the Department of Economics at the University of Notre Dame, has been reappointed for 1952-53 as a member of the Foreign Commerce Committee of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States. 
Ray Donovan Leaves to Take Position as Newspaper Editor 
Raymond J. Donovan, for the past 3}4 years Director of Public Information at the University of Notre Dame, has resigned to accept a position as Michi­gan Editor of the South Bend (Ind.) Tribune, it was announced recently. 
Mr. Donovan's resignation from the Notre Dame post became effective June 21st. Donovan was appointed Director of Public Information at Notre Dame January 1st, ' 1949. 
Donovan, a native of Indianapolis, Ind., joined the Notre Dame staff in 1942 as Assistant Director of Publicity after receiving a Bachelor of Arts in Journalism degree from Notre Dame. He joined the staff of the Logansport (Ind.) Pharos-Tribune in 1944, and after serving as Sports Editor for one year retiumed to the Notre Dame pub­licity staff in 1945. 
** Includes a $500,000 contribution from Mr. I. A. O'Shaughnessy, who received an LL.D. in 1947. 
Raymond J. Donovan 

Akron 
New oflRccrs arc: President, CHARLES " E. GREENE, '41; Vice-President, THOMAS J. BOTZUM, '49; Secretary, BRUCE W. RAFF, JR., '49; Treasurer, JOSEPH T. WASHKO, '35. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Akron held a Golf Outing at Mayfair Country Club on the afternoon of Saturday, June 21. A blind bogey tournament was held so that all golfers could participate on an equal footing. 
GEORGE DEKANY, '49, had some interesting and worthwhile prizes. TED SCHAETZLE, "49, was the starter and arranged foursomes at the first tec. Golfers began at 2:00 o'cloclt, and dinner was ser\'ed at 6:30. —BRUCE W. RAFF, JR., '49 
Altoona 
The Club had a fine family picnic on June 14th, which was attended by thirty-odd alumni, wives, girl friends, and children. A bad rainstorm didn't help the general situation too much, but even then there was a great spirit of enthusiasm. Members approved the application for a club charier pat­terned after the sample copy listed in the club manual. 
President FRANK HOLAHAN attended the Club Presidents Council at Notre Dame on June 5-6. 
—FRANK HOLAHAN, '35 

Baltimore 
The Baltimore Club will have its Annual Picnic again at Anchors Awcigh on the Magothy River, Sunday, August 17th. GREG HALPIN, '49, the new prcxie, is handling all of the arrangements with a small committee. Again, it will be a family party with the youngsters really taking over. There will be a basket picnic lunch at noon, games, su'imming, door prizes and then a barbecue supper put on by the Club. 
In June four outstanding graduates of boys Catholic high schf)oIs in Baltimore again received the Club's Gold Medal for scholarship and achievement. 
GREG HALPIN has introduced the idea of a "printed club meeting" in the form of a regular bulletin entitled "N.D. in MD." It has been ac­cepted very enthusiastically by the members. 
Committee appointments for the new year are: MURRAY WEIMAN, Publicity; PAT PUTNAM, '41, High School Committee; FELIX MELODY, '23, Catholic Action. 
The club is hoping to have two major Fall events to replace the football rally. Also, an at­tempt will probably be made to publish a new Club Directory in the Fall. HAL WILLIAMS has vol­unteered to try and arrange a retreat for club members some time this year. 
—FRANK HOCHREITER. '34 

Boston 
On Tuesday, July 1, 1952, JOHN V. MORAN. 
*30, announced his candidacy for Attorney General 
in Massachusetts. John was the recent recipient 
of the award as Notre Dame Man of the Year for 
Boston. In the few short years that John has been 
in Massachusetts he has made innumerable friends, 
and in his capacity as Superintendent of Supplies 
for the City of Boston, he has shown outstanding 
ability. Best of luck to John this coming November. President JOHN T. BURKE. '29, is off to a fast start. At a recent meeting of the Executive Com­mittee the president appointed a committee to be headed by JACK NYE DUFFEY, '35, to formulate a Notre Dame Club of Boston Directory. There is a dire need for a directory and -with Jack heading .the committee it should be an iLxcellent one. Presi­
dent Burke also announced that plans were being 
formulated to have a family outing shortly after 
Labor Day. 
New joy has been brought to the Club Treasurer, WILLIAM M. HEALY, JR., '44, as his wUc pre­sented him with a boy, David, bom May 13, 1952­Both mother and son are doing wonderfully. 
JACK NYE DUFFEY. '35, is a grass widower as his wife Clair and son Gene arc reported en­joying a \-acation in Rochester, N. Y. 
JOHN E. KELLY, JR., '37, is expecting to be discharged from the Army this August. It will be good to have him around for a few of the meetings; he has been missed. 
DR. BROCK LYNCH, *45, is in the Air Corps at Mitchell Field, New York- He does not expect to be around Boston for another year or so, but we can Sparc him for awhile as long as he eventu­ally returns to the "Hub.*' 
JOHN F. HERLIHY, JR.. H9, has moved to 

•
New York and is working for Newsweek Maga­zine; however, wc picked up another Herlihy in brother ROBERT who graduated from Notre Dame in June, 1952. 

J.
 HARRY MARR, '37, along with his wife and eight children, has moved to 5 Mann Street, Hing-ham, Mass. Wonder how many moving vims were needed to move furnishings for that size family? 


ROBERT CROWLEY, '48, has recently been put in charge of the New England Telephone and Tele­graph OfHce in Natick, Mass. Best wishes to Bob and Helen. 
JOSEPH W. O'REILLY. '48, was recently elected President of Boston Deliveries, Inc. Joe, originally from New York City, arrived in Boston about a year ago, with his wife, Betsy, a native of Cleveland, Ohio, and their daughter, Cheryl Ann, bom in January, 1951, in Portland, Oregon, while Joe was with the FBI. 
—RICHARD S. HERUHY, '48 
The Hionus W. Frost ('30) Fanuly 

Buffalo 
The annnal Notre Dame stag outing for all of . Western New York was held July 12 at Lang's Picnic Grounds. Entertaiimient was continuous all day long, and climaxed with supper later in the day. Alunmi from sunvunding towns such ai Lockport, Batavia, Dunkirk, Medina, and others in the nearby area were invited. Prizes were awarded to each class. The 1952 graduates wen guests of the club. The general chairman for the aiTair was JACK SHINE, '48, whne NICK WIL­LETT, '48, was the coK:hairman. Other com­mittee chairmen included JOHN HOELSCHER, '42, WALT SULLIVAN, '40, JOHN NOVAK, '35, CY RICKAltD, '34, FRANK PUSATEU, '49. DON MAHONEV, '50, and PAUL AIXWEIN, '49. 
—RICHARD G. THOEN, 13 

Present at awarding of scholarship hy NY Chib to Midad P. MaBvdi were (L. to IL): Francis MacAnaney; Dan Hi^ins; MaUardi; Herb Gior^; D u H^gins Jr.; Johii Hoy^ Jr. MaUardi held a 99.1 average for four years at Caidiiial Faricy Mflitary Academy^ hi^^hest ever attained there. He was class valedictorian, editor of Ae paper and yearbook, cadet'^najor of the regiment, captain of the basebaU and footbaU teams, and member of the glee clnfaL 
Amg.Sept., 1952 

tiot.^5^?ii9i*^ 
Chicago 
The annual golf outing, a l9-hole feature di­rected by TERRY DILLON* and DAN GIBBS, iitt the road Monday, July 21st, at Elnihurst Country-Club. 
Over 300 golfers, a new record for the course, and -100 diners overflowed the golf course and taxed the ample facilities of the club house on the hottest and most hunud Monday of all time. So many golf balls were left in Salt Creek that the water level increased three inches in 24 hours. It has been since reported that these were the most expensive golf balls ever found in the Creek, in­dicating probably not so much the profligate pros­perity of the golfers as the confidence of their attack. 
Lloyds Undenvritcrs in London having bet a Cadillac against a hole in one, are reported to have had many anxious moments before the last per­spiring golfer oozed into the club house from the darkened 18th hole. Even Fred Suite, Sr., owner of the Country- Club and generous donor of green> fees for the day. had a moment iif anxiety when his be-sweated and berated bartenders couIdn*t even reach him. JACK MORLEY provided so much free Pabst Blue Ribbon in the rough and elsewhere that ground rules had to be created about einply beer cans. There were prizes for many, tickets for the Oklahoma game receiving the greatest attention. 
Over 400 people attended and we cannot give you a run down of the names of all, but not to be mentioned here is also not to be maligned for the truth is not in us. We did note that TOM NASH came in with a 73 to win the trophy; HARRY B.-VLDWIX, last year's trophy holder, came in with a smile oii his face; RAY DURST was outfitted in his Sorin Hall cordurovs. and JOHX O'SHAUGHNESSY xvas hatted like General De Gaulle's Aide-De-Camp; CHUCK COLLINS, REX ENRIGHT and HARRY 0»BOYLE did well on the course but scored much better in the locker room; PAT CROWLEY got ROG KILEY and TOM BEACOM an eadv start, but ED RY.VN, TOM LaLONDE and JOHN DORGAN played the first nine at Skokie because of too late a start; LEO POWERS ou:-»an ANDY CONLIN and RAY DONLIN at the end of 18 and wouldn't quit 
until the grccnskccpcrs insisted that he post a bond at the 27lli; JIM GALLAGHER was caught playing put and take with CHUCK COMISKEY on the first hole; "Man of the Year" JIM MAR­TIN played with GIL SE/VMAN and will receive applications for a new partner for next vear; EMMETT WRIGHT picked up over $100 on the first tee (in club dues, that is). 
JOHN CARMICHAEL performed beautifully in his role as toastmaster. introducing FATHER HES­BURGH, FATHER JOYCE, MOOSE KR^VUSE, FRANK LEAHY, JOE KUHARICH, HERB JONES and BOB CAHILL from the University as well as Red Grange and many other celebrated friends of Notre Dame, Tliis was Father Hes­burgh's first performance as President before our Club. The ox-ation given him expressed a warmth toward him and a gratitude to the University for their cooperation in our affairs. 
No report of this Golf Party could properly be made without an expression of gratitude to JOE PETRITZ who obtained so mucli effective publicity for the Notre Dame Club, 
DON GIBBS and TERRY DILLON, co-chairmen, were ably assisted by JUSTIN OTOOLE, MARK MITCHELL. TOM BRENNAN, GEORGE and BOB MURPHY, WALLY BAUER and FRANK THOMETZ. 

(L. to R.): Peter Barskis, Moose Krause, Fred Banicki, Bob Cahill. 
(L. to R.): Tom Kennedy, John Banks, Terry Dillon, Ben Mikes. 
sg:^ 

(L.
 to R.): Father Thomas Burke, Larry Alollcr, Ken Pcnz, Frank Haggerty. 

(L.
 to R.): John O'Shaughnessy, Bill Downes, Ambrose O'Cal­laghan, Bert iVIetzger. 


(L. to R.): Fred Hehns, Dan Gibbs, Jim McLaughlin, Stuart Makinney. 
(L. to R.): Judge Roger Kiley, Edmund Stephan, Fat Crowley, Thomas Beacom. 
(L. to R.): Chuck Collins, Duke Hodler, Harry O'Boylc, Jack (L. to R.): John La Roca, Fr. Edward Skoncr, Raleigh R. Roach, Rex Enright, Bill Cerncy. Steuber, Luke Tieman. 
Capitol District 
The Capitol District Notre Dame Alumni Club held a meeting at Kecler*s Restaurant on April 14 for the annual election of officers with the fol­lowing results: 
President, DR. BERNARD A. DUFFY, '33; Vice-President, JOHN S. HERRICK, JR., *35; Secretary-Treasurer, JOSEPH W. CONLON, *35. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated with a dinner meeting at the Petit Paris Restaurant on April 22. A large group of Alumni, their wives, and guests attended. 
The meeting was a huge success, thanks to the efforts of ANDREW M. PINCKNEY, *4I, JAMES 
J. DRISLANE, *38, and Committee. REV. FATHER EDMUND JOYCE, Executive Vice-President, University of Notre Dame, gave an in­teresting talk, and brought us up to date on the expansion program at the Universtiy. 
Toastmastcr SHERB HERRICK, the Sports­caster of Station WXKW, introduced the Rev. John S. Sise, AssisUnt Director of the Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Albany, and BROTHER CHRISTIAN, C.S.C, '36, of the Vinccntian In­stitute. FATHER JOYCE was a guest on SHERB HERRlCK's evening Sportscast prior to the Din­ner Meeting. 
ANDREW M. PINCKNEY, President, presented the Notre Dame Man of the Year Award to DAN CUNHA, '35, Basketball Coach at Siena College. Dan finds time to be a traveling speaker as evi­denced by the fact that during tlie course of the evening he spoke at the Albany Bo>-s' Club Dinner, then traveled to Mechanic\-iUc, N. Y., to speak at NICK TANCREDI's, *37, high school affair, and returned in time to receive this outstanding au-ard. Our hats off to DAN CUNHA. 
The Notre Dame Alumni in the Capitol District hope some day to see Notre Dame come cast to play a basketball game with Siena College. While in Baltimore last fall for the Notre Dame-Navy game, I ran into MOOSE KRAUSE and worked on him for such a game. 
The Capital District Notre Dame Alumni Club held a dinner and business meeting at the Univer­sity Club on May 26th. 
Activities for the year were discussed and presi­dent BERNARD A. DUFFY, '33, appointed WIL­LIAM CASAZZA, '35, chairman and JAMES DRISLANE, '38, co-chairman of a family outing to be held in September, and FRANTC OTT, '22, chairman for the Communion Breakfast to be held in December. 
Wc arc 5orr>- to report the death of Albion J. Eckert, father of EDWARD ECKERT, '33. —JOSEPH W. CONLON, '35 
Central New York 
The summer season opened with the Annual Golf Outing, held this year at Auburn Country Club, on July 23rd. The affair was under the vcr>- ca­pable direction of CHARLIE GEHERIN, '31. 
Later in the summer will come another annual event—the Student Send-Off. It has become tra­ditional to hold the send-off at the same time that the local Cerebral Palsy organization has Its benefit pro football game, and to Invite the ND bo>*s who are members of the two teams to meet with the alumni, students and prospective students and their parents. This will be the' order of the day again this year, and the Student Send-Off will be held on or about September 6th, the dale when the Lions and Browns meet In Syracuse. 
FATHER JOSEPH QUINN, C.S.C., '46, Direc­tor of the Father Peyton Family Rosar>- Crusade, was the speaker at the Universal Notre Dame Night gathering at Bellei'ue Country Club. Past President JACK TERRY, '45, was in cliarge of the dinner, which saw a very good crowd turn out to hear the wonderful talk given by Father Quinn, and for a most enjoyable evening. 
Under the direction of President ED KENE­FAKE, '34, the alumni collaborated with a S>Ta­cusc American Legion Post who gave a testimonial dinner for FRANK LEAHY, '31, late In May. JACK McAULIFFE, *39, was dub chairman, working w;ith the Legion Post. Coach Leahy made a host of friends, both for himself and for Notre Dame, during his appearance here. 
—BOB McAULIFFE, '48 

New officers for the Fort Wayne Qub are (L. to R.); Bob O'Reilly, Sec; Frank McCarthy, Vicc-Pres.; Roy Grimmer, Jr., Pres.; Bob Kearney, Treas. 
Chattanooga Dallos 
TIic local club met on July 2nd at JOHN TER­RELL'S place on Chlckamauga Lake. After the usual swim, the group settled down to consume liquid refreshments (?) and a barbecue. 
Later, the group took a trip on the lake in Terrell's cruiser whicli didn't end up until the early morning hours. John had plenty of naviga­tional assistance with eight back seat drivers. ED DAVIS, '43, witli two beer bottles taped together for binoculars, was especially helpful in locating the channel as we returned to the dock. 
Those who attended included W. C. CASEY, '14, 
T. B. OWES, '35, ROGER P. EGAN. '40, JOHN 
W. TERRELL, '39, EDWARD F. DAVIS, '43, 
W. F. DANIELS, '49, F. T. DELANEY, '45, TOM EGAN, '50, and HERB HAILE who is a Junior at the University. 
—ROGER P. EGAN, JR., '40 

Cleveland 
At a special meeting held on May 6th, CHARLES 
A. MOONEV, '26, chairman of the Cleveland Board of Education, was appointed Honorary Pres­ident of the local Notre Dame Club for the coming year. HUGH O'NEILL, '17, was selccied as Chariman of the Board of Governors. 
The following were appointed to the Board of Governors: T. EDWARD CAREY, '3i, JACK ELDER, '30, GEORGE J. KOZAK, '33, WARD LEAHY, '26, RICHARD F. MAIER, '50, KARL 
E. MARTERSTECK, '29, NORMAN J. McLEOD, '31, CHARLES E. ROMER, M9. 
Saturday, June 2Ist, was the date of the annual picnic held at CHUCK ROHR's ('30) farm near Chardon, Ohio. There was a baseball game, in which the Oldtlmcrs and the Yearlings battled each other to a standstill, horseback riding and a visit to Chuck's very fine grotto. But tlie high­light of the afternoon was when PAT CANNY showed the boys how to ride the horses and suc­ceeded, much to his own surprise. 
The Annual Golf Party is scheduled for July I7th at Columbia Hills Golf Course. ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE, *34, will be the honored guest and prin­cipal speaker at tlie dinner to be held Immediately following the golfing event. 
Columbia Hills Golf Club, one of the most beautiful and yet one of the toughest courses in the district, was the scene of the 1952 Notre Dame Alumni Golf Outing and Dinner on July 17. Dinner was scned about 7:30 p. m. ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE, Director of Atlilctlcs, was with us again, loaded with "dope" on this vcar's team. JERRY REIDY was chairman. 
—FRED W. FRIEND 

The Dallas Club, with the approval of members, outlined the following program for the 1952-53 year: 
July 31—Summer party. Co-crhalrmen: JIM CROW, '46, and JOHNNY SIERRA. 
August 17—Communion Breakfast—^Wives cordial­ly invited. Chairman: JOE HAGGAR, '45. Speak­er chairman: JACK SCHROETER, '44. 
Sept. 24—^Dallas **Texans" Night—dinner in honor of JIMMY FHELAN, '17, and other Notre Dame men on the Tcxans squad. Chairman: LEE SHIPP, '48. 
October 4—^Texas Game trip. Chairman: ED HAGGAR, >38. Nov. 26—Regular bl-monthly meeting. Program chairman: JACK SCHROETER. 
December — Annual Christmas dance (between Christmas and New Years). Chairmen: JOHN GILES, '50, and JACK SCHROETER. 
January 29—Regular bl-monthly meeting. Pro­gram chairman, JACK SCHROETER. March 1—Communion Breakfast. Chairman: JOE HAGGAR. Speaker chairman: JACK SCHROETER. 
December 7—Communion Breakfast—as near as possible to Immaculate Conception (probably Dec. 7). Chairman: JOE HAGGAR. Speaker cliairman: JACK SCHROETER. 
—LANCASTER SMITH, '50 
• 

Dayton 
The monthly smoker meeting was held at Sutt­mlller's, July 15. 
The two major items on the coming agenda for the Notre Dame Club of Dayton arc the excursion trip to the Na\y game at Cleveland, and the cur­rent ticket raffle for the scholarship fund. There are five prizes. First prize is two fully paid excur­sion trips to the Na\-y game, and the other four prizes arc tickets to all the home games. This is the third year that the ticket raffle drive has been held. In the past two years it has contributed well over $1,000. 
A complete roster of all Notre Dame Alumni with occupations and other pertinent information is now being prepared under the direction of JOHN WHALEN, '50. -^RAN K E. McBRIDE, '50 
Dearborn 
The Dearborn Club enjoyed a Communion break­fast recently and had FATHER FRANK CAVA­NAUGH as the principal speaker. The club wishes to offer their sincercst congratulations to Father Frank on his 25th anniversary in the priesthood. 
The club is now planning a summer picnic. 
—PETE KERNAN, '49 

Denver 
The Denver Club had a dinner meeting on July 10th at which time JOHN CACKLEY from the Foundation campus office spoke to the group. 
The club*s annual family picnic took place August 10th at Herb Fairall's mountain home in Palo Verde Park. The committee included HERB FAIRALL, '39, TOM CURRIGAN. MI, ANTON POJMAN, '49, BOB FLYNN, '49, DR. DAN MONAGHAN, '38, LEON ARCHER, '29, GERRY SHEA, '43, JIM SHEEHAN, '50, and JACK RYAN, '47. Entertainment consisted of horseshoes, volley ball, "badminton and cards for the grown-ups. Treasure hunts for the older children as well as for the smaller kids were also featured. Free pop, ice cream, coffee and beer was provided. 
Detroit 
Without the benefit of the caucus and TV, the Detroit Club has elected a new slate of officers for the year 1952-33. The successful candidates are: DAN J. HENRY. '35, president; HARVEY F. BROWN, M.D.. '24, first vice-president; JOHN W. ANHUT, '44, second vice-president; C. M. VER­BIEST, '20, treasurer; MALCOLM F. KNAUS, '26, Secretary. 
The first item on their platform was a highly successful golf outing, on July 24th at Hillcrest Country Club, near Mt. Clemens, Mich. Golf and dinner, as well as horseshoes and softball, w*ere on the agenda for the many local celebrities and ahimni (actual and s>'nthctic} in attendance. The campus, too, provided glamour in the form of Father CHARLES CAREY, '31, and COACH LEAHY, '31, as well as those perennial prize winners, Father MURPHY, '35, and "MOOSE" KRAU5E, '34. 
Prizes for many and arrangements for all were handled by JIM BYRNE, '43, and BILL RONEY, '49, co-chairmen of the event. 
—BILL RONEY, M9 

Evansville 
The Notre Dame Club of Evansville (Ind.) ob-ser\'ed Universal Notre Dame Night on April 21st %vith a buflet luncheon in the rathskeller of the Sterling Brewers. These facilities were made pos­sible through the fine cooperation of RALPH C. HEGER, '25, who is now treasurer at Sterling Brewers, Inc. 
The delicious luncheon was prepared by the wives of DAVE CONNOR, '38, PAUL THOLE, '35, BOB HARGRAVE, '42, and BOB LAMEY. There were almost 75 Notre Dame men and their wives in attendance. 
The highlight of the evening was the election 
At the Dearborn Club Communion Breakfast 
ALUMNI CLUBS HAVING REGULAR WEEKLY OR MONTHLY LUNCHEONS AfH) MOTINGS 
District of Columbia—luncheon at Touchdown Club, 1414 Eye Street, N. W., Washington, every Tuesday noon. 
Evansville—luncheon every Friday noon in the Marine Room of the Knights of Columbus in downtown Evansville, Ind. 
Harrisburg—weekly luncheon every Friday at 12 noon in the Pick­wick Tavern (mezzanine) Harrisburger Hotel, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. 
Idaho—luncheon at Mode Teo Room, Boise, every Friday, 12:30. 
Kansas City—luncheon at Famous Restaurant, every Thursday noon. 
Kentucky—monthly meeting every third Thursday at 8 p.m., K. of C. Building, South Rfth Street, Louisville, Kentucky. 
Oklahoma City—monthly business meeting, first Saturday of every month, 12:30 noon, Beverley's Restaurant, Oklahoma Gty, 
Oklahoma. 

Pittsburgh—luncheon every Thursday noon at. the Hotel Sheraton in downtown Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Rochester—regular meeting on the last Monday of every month in the Hotel Sheraton, at 8 p.m., Rochester, New York. 
Tulsa—luncheon every Thursday of each month at the Mayo Hotel, 12 o'clock noon, Tulsa, Oklahoma. 
West Virginia—luncheon on first Tuesday of every month at 12:15 
p.m. noon at the West Virginia Room (Elks Club) ChaHes­
ton, West Virginia. 

of officers for the coming year. Those officers elected were BOB HARGRAVE, '42, president; EDW. (BUCK) HALLER, '42, vice-president; BOB LAMEY, '28, secretary, and E. FRED THEIS, '36, treasurer. 
RUDY STURM, of Jasper, Ind., was awarded the "Man of the Year" scroll which was pre­sented by RAY G. ZILIAK, '30, the retiring presi­dent. FRANCIS HENNEBERGER, '27, and AR­THUR MILLER, '27, both of Princeton, Indiana, announced that the annual Summer Round-Up would be held at the Princeton Country Club sometime in June. 
 were (L. to R.): Pete Keman, Sec; Father 
Frank Cavanaugh; Jerry Sarb, Pres.; Dick King, Vice-Pres.; Fr. Hector Saulino, Chaplain. 
A recent addition to the Club is FRANCIS (MIKE) LAYDEN, formerly at Indianapolis, who is now in Evansville as manager of the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. 
Another addition is ROBERT LONDEGRAN of London, Ohio, now in Evansville with the law firm of Walker & Walker in the Old National Bank BIdg. 
In spite of these two additions we lost a very loyal member In DAVE J. CONNOR. On May Ist Dave was transferred to Indianapolis as agent for Acme Fast Freight. He held the same title here but the move represents a nice promotion. 
On June 24th about sLxty Notre Dame men and their wives from the Tri-State area of Indiana-Kentucky-Illinois met at the Princeton (Ind.) Country Club for their seventh annual Summer Round-Up. 
Bridge for the ladies and golf for the men were the order of the afternoon, followed by a dinner in the evening with real southern-fried chicken and all the trimmings. 
After the dinner FRANCIS HENNEBERGER who witli ART MILLER served as our Princeton hosts, served as master of ceremonies. The prize for high bridge score was given to Jean HENNES­SEY of £\-ansvilIe and her husband BILL, '47, won the low gross award in the golf tournament. TOM SUTTON, prominent Vincennes architect, won the low net prize. 
President BOB HARGRAVE. M2, spoke briefly on Club plans for the rest of the year. Tlie eve­ning festivities were ronmded out with a "aong fest" to the accompaniment of a Hammond organ. 
The members of the Notre Dame Club meet each Friday noon for luncheon in the Marine Room of the Knights of Columbus in downtown Evansville. Attendance during the past few weeks has Inin-eased with the addition of several ND students home 
on vacation. -ROBERT S. LAMEY, *28 
Fort Louderdole 
An enjoyable dinner was had by all at our regu­lar meeting place, the Governor's Club Hotel. Guests for the evening were JIM JACOBS, class of '52, from Holly^vood, Florida, and his brother 
Aug.Sept., 1952 

JACK JACOBS, class of M9, from Peoria, Illinois. 
Jim stated that he would love to become a member 
of om- Club except that Uncle Sam has a prior 
claim to his services. Needless to say, he will 
be welcomed into our fold when he is released by 
the Service as will any other Notre Dame gradu­
ates or friends of the University who should decide 
to take up residence in our healthy and wonder­
ful climate. 
One of the business items discussed was the possible supjiort of the Notre Dame Glee Club while on i;s Southern tour next year. However, nothing definite on this point was decided. 
The following is a short resume of the events which took place at the last meeting of the Fort Lauderdale Notre Dame Club %vhtch was held at the Elks Club on July 10, 1952. 
For the first time in many months we had no guests from other clubs. However, it is hoped that at the next meeting we will be fortunate in again Having several out-of-town guests present. This next meeting is scheduled for the second Wednesday in August, that is, August ]3ih, and although definite arrangements have not been made, a very special meeting is planned and should be well worth attending should any out-of-town mem­bers who read this notice happen to be in our vicinity. It will be an open meeting and as usual at such meetings wives and dates will be more than welcome. 
Only one item of business was attended to at the meeting of July 10, the making of final plans for our annual donor contest which the Club spon­sors every year. Tlic winner of this contest will be awarded an all-expense trip to next fall^s Notre Dame-Southern Cal game. 
—GEORGE H. GORE. '31 

Fort Smith 
The Fort Smith Club recently submitted con­tributions to the University which put the dub in the 100 percent alumni participation category'. In addition, the club submitted contributions from ten associate members which also was on the 100 percent participation level. 
RAY MARRE, '37, attended the Club Presidents Council at Notre Dame on June 5-6. ^OUVA L JOHNSON, '37 
Fort Wayne 
At the dub's annual picnic on June 17th, the annual election took place and all present club officers were re-elected for the coming year. They are as follows: 
Among the Altoona Clubbers celebrat­ing UND Night were (L. to IL): PfaU Lyttle, Frank Holahan, Pres.; Ollic Schell; Bill Clear; Primo Lusardi; Charlie McAtcer. 
ROY GRIMMER, JR., '46, president; FRANK 

MCCARTHY , '28, vice-president; ROBERT O'REIL­
LY, '43, secretary; ROBERT KEARNEY, '48, 
treasurer. 
ART HOFFMAN, '37, and TYKE HARTMAN, 

'48, were co-chairmen of the picnic afTalr. Inci* 
dentally, Hartman has been transferred by the 
Wayne Pump Company to Salisbury, Maryland. 
The club recently lost two staunch members as 

FRANK CORBETT, '30, died after an illness of 
several weeks and AL ZICKGRAF, '49. was killed 
in an automobile accident on June 1st in Fort 
Wa>Tic. 
Harrisburg 
At a recent meeting an Auxiltar>' to the Harris­
burg Notre Dame Club was organized and officers 
elected. It is felt that the Auxiliar>' will stimulate 
further interest in the program and activities of 
the club. 
At its meeting the Auxiliary' worked out plans 
for the holding of a picnic for the families of all 
Pennsylvania men in the Central Pennsylvania 
area on June 15th. 
At the meeting MRS. WILLIAM J. MOORE, '26, was elected President; MRS. JOHN W. DA­VIS, '32, Vice-President; MRS. THOMAS J. DE­VANNY, '49, Secretary-Treasurer; MRS. JOSEPH 
R. FARRELL, '13, Publicity Chairman; MRS. EDWARD R. ECKENRODE, JR., '46, Member­ship Chairman; MISS LEONA KEDAL, sister of VINCENT L. KEDAL, '47, Social Chairman. 
Houston 
United States District Attorney BRIAN S. ODEM, '17, is the "man-of-the-year" as far as the Houston Notre Dame Alumm Association is concerned, and he was so honored on Universal Notre Dame Night at Kaplan's Restaurant. 
Mr. Odem, United States District Attorney for the Southern District of Texas, was presented with a scroll in recognition of his outstanding service and achievements in his profession. He is married and is the father of seven children. (See picture of Odem family in Notre Dame ALUMNUS, May-June, 1952, page 28.) 
The presentation was made by P. J. DOYLE, '36. 
Principal speaker of the evening was REV. ALFRED MENDEZ, '31, professor of Spanish at Notre Dame, who spoke on the value of Christian education, defending the importance of the Catholic school system in upholding the standards of our country. 
Father Mcndez' speech was an ans^ver to recent duTges of the president of Harvard, who stated, **Tbe greater proportion of youth who attend in­dqieadent icho(^, the greater the threat to our democratic unity." 
"What that college president wanted is not unity but uniformity such as found in fascism," Father Mcndez said. *'Such a statement by the president of Harvard is like sawing off a limb upon which he is sitting, because Harvard is an out­standing example of nonstate school." 
The speaker then referred to a statement by 
J. EDGAR HOOVER, '42 (honorary LL.D.), a non-Catholic, who said: 
"No gift of Rockefeller or the Carnegie Toun­dation can equal the gift presented to the Amer­ican people by the Catholic ciiurch. It has nearly llflOO schools with nearly 3,000,000 pupils who are taught by 95,000 patriotic teachers." 
HARRY STUHLDREHER, '25, one of the famed Notre Dame *'Four Horsemen," was present at the dinner meeting and was introduced to the gathering. 
Idaho 
The Idaho Club had JOHN CACKLEY as guest at their meeting on July 17th. A discussion of the University's program and campus movies were featured. PHIL SHEA, '49, and FRANK HICKS, '49, were in charge of arrangements. 
Indianapolis 
The Indianapolis Golf Tournament was held at the Higfalaixl Golf and Country Club on July 22nd. LAERY "BUD" TURNER, '48, was chairman. 
Kentncky 
The Kentucky Club held their Summer outing on July 19th at the Idle Hour Farm located 11 miles from Louis\ilIe. Various entertainment fea­tures included nine-hole practice golf course, horse­shoe pitching area, softball, volley ball, shuffle­board, ping pong and plenty of room for card playing. 
Los Angeles 
Th Los Angeles Club's annual golf tournament is scheduled for August 16th at the IngIe\vood Country Club. Tee-off is at 1:30 p.m. and greens fee is $3. Chairman of the event is DR. LEO TORGEON, '42, while CHARLES MURPHY, '28, is vice-chairman. 
Univexsal Notre Dame Night held at the Am-
Praoit at die Chattanooga CIuVs recent ontiiig were (Front Row, L. to R.): W. C. Casey; T. B. Owen; Roger Egan; John Tcndl; Edward Davis; (Back Row, L. to R.): W. Daniek; F. Delaney; Tom Egan. 
bassador Hotel was a tremendous success, accord­ing to the commeats of the guests heard by the committee. FATHER GAVANAUGH's letter^ in which he said, "I salute the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles for having staged a most memor­able UND Night. On behalf of the University, the officers and the entire club are to be heartily thanked for the imagination, high sense of per­fection and long weeks of planning that made the evening such an enjoyable, fruitful one," was very welcome to the committee headed by AL SCOTT, *21, and LEO WARD, '20, who worked so hard on the dinner. 
The Family Picnic was held June 22nd at the Los Angeles Police Academy under the able chair­manship of BOB CURTIS and his committee. 
Other events scheduled are: September, Student and Freshmen Scnd-Off Party, chairman ALEC SHELLOGG, '39, and JOE SCOTT, '15; Golf and Dinner Dance, date to be selected, chairman DR. LEO TURGEON, '42; Notre Dame Sports Dinner, early November, co^airman DAN BRADY, *26, and CHRISTY WALSH, JR.. '49; Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, De­cember 7, chairman FATHER JOHN LYNCH, C.S.C., '25; Election Night Party and installation of ofhcers, January 19, 1953, chairman BOB KELLEY, '34; and Universal Notre Dame Night, Apnl 13, 1933, chairman CHARLES LYNCH, '28. 
The club is scheduled to hold a retreat August 1, 2 and 3, at the Manresa Jesuit Retreat House in Azusa. 
—BOB KELLEY, '39 

Miomi 
With the end of the recent campaign for various governmental offices, it was not anticipated that the May meeting would bring out many alumni and others who were closely associated to the \*arious races. However, the session was unusually well-attended and enjoyable, particularly for those who remained to attend and participate in the \'a­rious bull sessions. 
GEORGE A. BRAUTIGAAI, '29, who emerged a decisive ^ctor over his opponent Glenn Mincer for the important post of State's Attorney, was present and received the sincere congratulations of all members present. Georgie spoke briefly (he was tired) on his intentions in the operation of his newly won office. FRED JONES, '47, untiring and diligent Campaign Manager for our new luminary, was very much in evidence at the meet­ing in body but not in speech. It was generally agreed that this was the first meeting that Freddie had not emoted at length. It was understandable, nevertheless, when it was considered that just listening to his champion and opponent during recent weeks must have eliminated all desire on his part to even listen to himself. 
Of course, all alumni know that our popular member, VINCE C. GIBLIN, '18, was returned to his post of Circuit Court Judge without oppo­sition. The results, however, would have been the same even though some rash political aspirant would have attempted to unseat him. Sufiice to say that the Alumni Club of this area is very proud, and buttons are busting all over, in having two such men as members of our organization. 
JERRY HOLLAND, '30, our vociferous and be­loved President, attended the Club Presidents Coun­cil at Notre Dame. 
The beautiful Notre Dame banner secured from the University by WALTER ROWLANDS, '15, was displayed for the first time at the &fay meet­ing. It is made up of gold lettering with a blue background and reads "THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI CLUB OF GREATER MIAMI." Its care has been entrusted to our highly capable second vecpce, ED KELLY, '45. 
Present at the meeting was the welcome visit of our highly esteemed and respected member, HENRY S. "HANK" KEEL, '47. 
RICHARD "DICK" ^VHELAN, Notre Dame '42, who recently made Miami his new and per­manent residence, attended his first meeting with the local club. 
Michigan City 
The Fifth Annual Iiish Greens Party s[>onsored by the Notre Dame Club of Michigan City was held at the Long Beach Country Club on July 17th and as usual attracted a capacity crowd. 
(L. to R.): John A. Hoyt, Jr^ NY Man-of-die-Year; Fr. Howaxd Kama; Jim Clyncs, Sec; Heib Gingio, I^cs. 
Mid-Hudson Valley 
The Club held its annual picnic at Baird State Park on Sunday, June 29. The following members from Poughkccpsic, Kingston, and Newburgh were in attendance with their families: JOE RORICK, DICK McCABE, JOHN HANIFIN, JACK DRUN­GAULD, BILL BLAKE, ED BLAKE, BOB OR­TALE, BOB DEEGAN, HANK FISHER, TONY BONO, JOE Mca\BE. 
The Club voted to have a steak picnic in Ulster County sometime in August. 
Milwaukee 
The Milwaukee Club held its annual Summer Slag golf party at Port Washington Country Club on June 26, 1952. The party was preceded by two days of sweltering weather with temperatures in tlie 90's so the fellows thought the party would be a liot one. They were right as far as the party was concerned, but the temperature on the golf course ^vhich borders Lake Michigan sent many scurr>'ing for coats and jackets. BILL DINEEN, the chairman, and his committee performed a very commendable job. 
ED TROY remarked that since we had seen him last, twins had entered his household. That means tliat £d now has six children. BILL DINEEN had a boy in February. BOB HARTMAN now has two children ^vith a baby daughter arriving in March. 
A wedding occurred on June 28, 1952, with DICK HOY as the proud groom and Jean Mul­laney as the happy bride. STAN PEARSON was a member of the wedding party. 
Congratulations are in order for JIM BRENNAN who recently was graduated by Marquette's Law School. BILL MALANEY is now a salesman for Amity Leather, the company in which BOB and TOM ROLFS play a vital part. BOB MAYOTTE is a nnv member of the ftlihvaukcc Club having recently transferred from the Cleveland Club. He is still with Remington-Rand. 
The Milwaukee newspapers arc currently printing the golf prowess of BILL SCHALLER and TOM VEECH. Both are breaking par consistently. TOM CARTER was recently named as the chairman of our forthcoming Summer Dance. STEVE WANTA is at present a partner in a Floor Covering Com­pany. DICK O'MELIA and BILL DOUCETTE, president and vice-president respectively of the Mil­waukee Club, have mentioned that they both are expecting additions to their families in the near future. 
ERNIE LENOIS and JACK VOGT are wonder­ing what happened to all their money in the poker game which took place after the Golf party. I suggest, fellows, that you ask HARRY TROY. MAURICE OLSEN did quite well in the prize line at the golf party winning the blind bogey and two door prizes. I'm told that GEORGE and ED ALTENDORF burned up the fairways that day. RAY DWYER, unbeknown to him, donated his tobacco pouch as a door prize at the party. Did you ever get it back, Ray? 
In behalf of the Milwaukee Club I wish to express our appreciation to FATHER CAV­ANAUGH for the excellent work he has performed during his tenure of office as president of the University of Notre Dame, and to wish him God­speed in his future ventures. Wc also wish to express our congratulations to FATHER HES­BURGH on his recent appointment to the presi­dency of the University, and trust his success will be as great as his predecessors'. 
Montana 
The Montana Club met in Butte at the Hotel Finlen on July 20th during the visit of JOHN CACKLEY, from the Foundation staff, to this city. Arrangements were in charge of DR. RICH-AltD MONAHAN, '96, and ROY MURRAY. JR.. '42. 
Muskegon 
The Notre Dame Club of Muskegon held a joint summer picnic with the Grand Rapids Club, Sat­urday afternoon and evening, June 21, 1932, at the Highland Park Hotel overlooking Lake Michigan at Grand Haven, Michigan. 
There were about forty couples or a total of ^proximately 80 Notre Dame men, wives and guests there. During the afternoon and evening they entertained themselves with softball, swimming, shuffle board, cards, singing and visiting in the tra­ditional ND fraternity and spirit of conviviality. 
The hotel chef served a buffet style supper of fried chicken, ham, salad, baked b^ms, etc. 
It was handled by joint committees from Grand R^ids (BOB WOODHOUSE, '47, GEORGE WEISS, '47, and HUGH ROACH, JR.) and Mns­kegon (JAMES PRICE, '46, JOSEPH KEUSCH, '43, and LEO L. UNCK, '43. 
New Jersey 
At our final meeting of the season on June 9tfa, 1952, held in Newark, a new and young groap of officers was elected for the forthcoming year. As per the enclosed clipping which ran in the Newark 
Amg.Sept^ 1952 

£\*cning News of June 11th, the clccicd officers are LEO J. COSTELLO, '48, of Paterson, president; FRANK RUDDEN, '49, of Nutley, vice-president; JAMES A. SEBOLD, '49, of Whippany, treasurer; THOMAS H. GREEN, 48, of Newark, secretary-. 
ROBERT F. LARKIN, '45, of Montclair, and THOMAS J. TREACY, '36, of Summit, were elected to a three-year term on the Board of Di­rectors of the club. This marks the first time in the twenty-five year histor>* of the club that such a young group has been placed in office and we're hoping to keep up the pace set by the older mem­bers for all these twent>--fivc years. 
A rising vote of thanks was given to the officers of last year, PHILIP J. HEINLE, '35, president; CLARK L. REYNOLDS, '38, vice-president; RICHARD DERRICKS, '31, treasurer, and NICK 
J. VILLAROSA, '43, sccreUry, for their earnest and untiring work. 
Plans and preparations arc being made by Chair­man NICK \1LLAROSA, '43, for our annual **Freshman Welcome" when the club gives a send­ofT to the boys about to enter Notre Dame for the first time. Tentative plans are also being made for a football trip to tlie Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game, and capable PETER J. QUINN, '33, is chairman of the raffle committee for that game. Far-rcacliing preparations for our annual Communion Breakfast and Universal Notre Dame Night are also being discussed. 
The Club is seeking to contact its newest poten­tial members, those Notre Dame men from the New Jersey area %vho iiavc recently been graduated from the University. All arc cordially in\ited to attend our meetings, w*hich w*ill commence again in the Fall and meantime I would appreciate hearing from any of them so that I may include any new-names on our mailing list. 
—TOM GREEN, '48 

New York City 
The Notre Dame Club of New York held its 

Annual Retreat at the Passtonist Monaster)- in 
Jamaica, o\*er the weekend of March 21-23. The 
Retreat was attended by some 34 members of the 
Club, under the capable Chairmanship of £ D 
ELLSWORTH, '31, and a good time—both phys­
ically and spiritually—was had by all. 
On April 28th, the Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night, at the New York Athletic Club. We were fortunate in having as our guest speaker, the REV. MAURICE C. POWERS, C.S.C., class of *33. Father Powers gave a most inspiring talk on his \'ast w-ar experiences and their relation to our ever>-day life in this country-. He brought home very forcefully the point tliat we must never become discouraged because of our own shortcomings, and must pick ourselves up off the floor and *get up and fight' for what we know to be right. 
The Club selected as its Man of the Year a man who had devoted long and faithful senice to the Club and to Notre Dame—JACK HOYT, '33. Jack has been Chairman of both our Annual Bas­ketball Ltmcheon and our Golf Outing for many years. In fact, only recently Jack has taken over the Trust Ftmd Chairmanship from BOB HAMIL­TON, *28, w-ho had to resign because of the pressure of business. 
Chairman AL PERRINE, '41, then turned the remainder of our Universal Notre Dame Night ov*er to the group for a little beer session and song fest. Father Powers further amazed the group by exhibiting his skill at the piano. It was the unanimous opinion of the group that this night was one of the best we have ever had, and bou­quets should go to FATHER POWERS, JACK HOYT and Chairman PERRINE. 
The Career Clinic is going strong at Cathedral High School, on Thursday evenings, under the capable direction of ED BECKMAN, '16. The Clinic has several fine openings for yoimg men, and is interested in obtaining both job openings and the names of those looking for employment. 
The Club is going to pro\*ide special frains to Philadelphia, on S^tembcr 27th, for the Penn Game. This activity, which is eagerly anticipated by all members, is under the chairmanship of TIM O'ROURKE. 
Our Club hopes that all the June graduates from the Metropolitan area w^Il become active members in our organization, and any of them desiring information regarding our Club and its activities may call HERB GIORGIO, '33, Presi­dent, HE 3-1460, or JIM CLYNES, '45, secre­tary', M U 5-8360. 
The June meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Ne%v York w-as held on the I9th at the New York 
A. C. It took the form of a Beer Party designed to welcome the new graduates from the Metropf^ tan area. We were fortunate in having approxi­mately 25 members of the Class of '52. A fine tune was had by all—both new and old members. 
The Board of Governors at its last meeting named DON EAGER, Class of '52 and President of the Met Club, as a member of its Board. The Board felt that in this w-ay the new members would feel that they have a voice in the policies of the Club, and that any gripes or netv ideas they might have will be given a full airing at the Board meetings. 
DANIEL PAUL HIGGINS, chairman of the Scholarship Selection Committee of the Notre Dame Club of New York, recently presented the 1952 $1500 award to Michael P. Mallardi. About 35 boys applied this year for the scholarship. The winner had a 91 percent academic average during his four years at Cardinal Farley Military Academy. 
—JAMES J. CLYNES, JR., '45 

Northern California 
The Northern California Club held a business 

meeting on Tuesday, May 27th, at the Leopard 
Cafe in San Francisco. 
Beef—the barbecued kind and the chip-on-the­shoulder variety—was at the top of the mid-summer menu for tlie Notre Dame Club of Northern California. 
The former—aged, cut in tliick slabs, and sea­soned with Rosemary and garlic-salt—is the attrac­tion at tlie 5c\-eral barbecues that are expected to liven up an otherwise casual summer among Notre Dame groups on the Peninsula, in the East Bay, and possibly in Marin County. 
The latter—an intense desire - to jettison dead wood and spare no sensibilities in an effort to fire the club to bigger things—characterized the attitude of the new panel of officers and directors, seated in July. 
BILL DALY, '41, reported to the directors and o£Gcers on his visit to the University. He brought back with him some of the ideas exchanged at the campus convention of alumni. Some of these ideas iv-ere immediately seized as workable, others shelved for future consideration. 
The officers-directors meeting talk dwelled on some of them: scholarships for outstanding Bay area students; de-centralization of the Northern California club; incorporation of most recent grad­uates into the alumni group immediately for pur> poses of rapport between the "old-timers" and the newcomers to the business world; speaking engage­ments for visiting University speakers in groups outside the alumni. 
Recurring theme at the installation meeting: turn the lukcH-arm rascals out—either the club functions on all cylinders or some cylinders get dropped. 
Officers seated for the forthcoming year were: 

ROBERT A. TARVER, '49, San Mateo attorney, president, 1217-A Burlingame avenue, Burlingame, Calif.; A. W. McMULLEN, '25, &H) Fordham Road, San Mateo, Wee-president; ZANE SANDON, '43, 253 Post street, San Francisco, treasurer; JOHN A. O'CONNOR, '48, 125 12th street, San Francisco, secretary. 
The club's board of directors includes: FRED EAK, '30, 933 Badra drive, £1 Ccrrito; GEORGE THOMAS, '37, 2968 Linden avenue, Berkeley; BILL DALY, '41, 2446 Massachusetts avenue. Redwood City; FRANK PEREZ, '48, 515 Maddux drive. Redwood City; BREEN McDONALD, '18, 230 Up­land drive, Hillsborough, San Mateo; DANIEL 
W. GAUFIELD, III, '52, 736 Wesley street, Oak­land; PATRICK D. BLACKFORD, '49, 54 Kemp-ton street, San Francisco. 
*'City" chairmen w-ere appointed at the Jidy meeting to facilitate the animation of the club on an area basis. 
For San Francisco proper, PAT BL.-\CKFORD, and COE McKENNA, '42, 199 Chestnut, San Francisco, were named. For the Peninsula, DON­ALD MILLER, '43, San Mateo attorney at 1217A Burlingame avenue, Burlingame; for the East Bay, JOHN MALONEY, Richmond. 
A luncheon at the St. Francis hotel, San Fran­cisco, honoring returning war ace COL. FRANCIS GABRESKI, '42, was held in June. The banquet w-as held in cooperation with the Air Force "Asso­ciation of San Francisco. 
—JOHN A. O'CONNOR, '48 

Ohio Valley 
Following is a list of officers of tlie Notre Dame Club of the Ohio Valley elected at a recent meicting in Bellairc for the next year; 
President, GEORGE SARGUS, '28, Wheeling; Vice-President, DR. RICHARD FLOOD, '37; Weirton; Secretary, JOHN NIEMIEC, '29, Bel­laire; Treasurer, RUSSELL RICKUS, '34, Wheeling. 
Directors: TOM HOWLEY, '11, Wheeling; WILLIAM HOGAN, '13, Wheeling; WILLIAM YEAGER, '42, Wheeling; \VILLIAM MITSCH, 
•33, WheeUng; LOUIS EICK, '14, Martins Ferry; RAYMOND JORDAN, '32, Bridgeport; JOHN ROBINSON, '47, Bellaire; EDMUND A. SAR-
At Houston UND Night dinner were (L. to R.): R. Conioy Scoggins; Eugene F. Malloy; Fr. Alfred Mendez; Harry Stuhldreher. 
Officers of the newly-formed Harrisburg Auxiliary are (L. to R.): Mrs. J. R. Farrell, Pub­licity' Chairman; Mrs. William Moore, Prcs.; Mrs. E. R. Eckcnrode, Membership Chairman; Mrs. John W. Davis, Vice-Pres.; (Lower Rt.) Miss Leona Kedal, Social Chairman. 
GUS, '33, BcUairc; FRANCIS WALLACE, '23, BcUaire; JOHN LAUTAR, '37, Moundsvilk; JACKSON CANDOUR, *33, Sistmvillc, and TED KRAEMER, Woodsfield. 
The club held the second of its summer meet­ings at'the Red Burton Picnic Grounds, near St. Clairsvillc, at 8:00 p.m. July 8. JOHN ROBIN­SON, retiring president, reported on the national meeting of club presidents held during the annual reunions at the University. Students in this area will be guests at all summer meetings. 
—FRANK WALLACE, '23 

Oklahoma City 
The Notre Dame Club of Oklahoma City held its first Annual Summer picnic Sunday, July 13, at the Summer Clubhouse of BOB McFARLAND, *42, president of the club. The picnic was pot­luck, each wife bringing some one dish. Members, wives," children and several guests were in attend­ance. Activities were necessarily confined to in­doors due to a severe wind and rain storm several hours before the picnic. About 40 people were in attendance at the picnic. 
The Oklahoma City Club has completed plans for its Special Game Trip to the OU-ND game, No­vember 8th. Anyone in the State of Oklahoma who is interested in joining the Special should contact the Notre Dame Club of Oklahoma City, P. O. Box 3686, N.W. Station, Oklahoma City 7, Okla­homa. 
The Club holds monthly business meetings the first Saturday of each month, 12:30 noon, at Bev­erley's Restaurant. Any transient alumni in the vicinity arc cordially invited to attend. 
—R. E. McFARLAND, '42 

Phoenix 
The following officers were elected for the cur­rent year, at a meeting held at the home of AL PICKS, '23, retiring President: JOHN G. O'MAL­LEY, '36, President; CARLTON GILBERT, '49, Vice-President; JOSEPH HORRIGAN, '34, Treas­urer, and REGIS G. LYNSKEY, '29, Secretary. 
GLENN J. MCDONOUGH, '32. was selected 
by the club for the Notre Dame Man of the Year a^va^d. We enjoyed the Highlights of the 1931 Football season movie at our election of Officers meeting. 
Universal Notre Dame night was appropriately celebrated by a group of thirty-five couples \vith a dinner party held at the Silver Spur in Phoenix. 
We of the Club were very proud of the Glee Club, the public's reaction and the excellent pro­gram they presented. It was particularly note* worthy that these boys and their very able direc­tor, although pressed for time and certainly weary from many miles of travel, consented to sing 
several nnmbcn oa each of tlx floors <rf St. 
Jfiscph's Ho^ta l shortly before their formal eve­
ning concert. You may well realize bow thrilled 
both the nmis and patients were to be afforded 
such an opportunity to bear the boys. 
-^lEGIS G. LYNSKEY, *29 

PittsbHrgh 
The Pittsburgh Club held its annual picnic for local alumni and their families on Saturday, July 5, at the Lodge in North Park. General Chairman for this well-handled affair was EUGENE COYNE, '33, who %tras aided by DON MARTIN, RECX LAVELLE, '27, LARRY SMTTH, '33, BOB FUL­TON, '33, JOHN REARDON, '22, and LEE KIRBY, '50. A special vote of thanks is due Mr. and Mrs. William Bublies, bf the North Park Sportsmen's Club, for their valuable assistance. Highlight of the picnic was the running races for 
' the children with JOE FOPA as the official starter. The Pittsburgh Club is conducting a raffle with the prize being an all*expense-paid trip to the Notre Dame-Pitt football game on October 11. The drawing will take place at the Club's annual GoU Party at the Butler Country Club on Septdn­ber 10. 
A number of the local alumni attended the students' annual spring dance at the Churchill Valley Cotmtry Club on June 13. 
The Pittsburgh Club continues to bold its weekly luncheons every Thursday at noon at the Hotel Sheraton in downto^%-n Pittsburgh. 
—LEE KIRBY, *50 

The inauguration of a new slate of officers at the Universal Notre Dame Night banquet sig­nalled the start of a new club year. The in­coming officers are EARL BRIEGER, '31, Vice-President, EMMET GRIFFIN, '42, Treasurer; LEE KIRBY, '50, Secretary, and the writer as President. 
BOB FULTON, '33, and JOHN BRILEY, '23» became 3-ycar members of the Board of Governors; carry-over members of the Board are LARRY O'TOOLE, '36, FATHER BRENNAN, '32, FRO Z WILSON, '28, GEORGE KINGSLEY, '30, and PAUL VOntLA , '52. Father Brennan is also Chaplain of the Club. 
The first consideration in planning the year's activities is to assure an adequate financial foun­dation. For that reason, we arc asking each member who can afford to do so to retnm the attached dues notice with his payment of ^ dues. The dues money is intended to pay the cost of mailing notices and announcements to the dob membership. Last year, of 250 members, 84 paid 
(L. to R.): Jack Sullivan, Past President of the Notre Dame Club oC St. Looii, awardii^ a Man-of-the-Year fdaqne to Rdand Dames. 
'31 men attending the Chicago Club golf outing included (L- to R.): Frank Holland; Nick Bohling; Phil Angsten; Jim Doyle. 
dues, and the income from this source did not meet the mailing costs. 
To pay other expenses, including losses on our social events, we are planning to sell 2,500 chances in a raffle of an expense-paid week-end trip to the Pitt-Notrc Dame game on October 11. We have reservations for two at the new Morris Inn on the campus. We cannot send these tickets through the mail, so come to the regular Thursday lunch-con at the Sheraton Hotel and pick up a book, or send your donation to Earl Bricger and he %vill fill out the tickets and send you the receipts. The donation is 50c per ticket or $5.00 for a book of 10. The drawing will be at our Golf Part>' in September. 
The first event of this nc\%- year ^vas our Annual Picnic It was held at the Lodge in North Park on Saturday, July 5. This is one family picnic where no one has to do any work, because Gene Coyne and his assistants take care of everything. 
In closing, I would like to remind you that our Thursday luncheon is at the Sheraton Hotel, Parlor A, 4:h floor. The luncheon costs $1,85 which includes the tip; this is obviously expensive, but not out of line with other good restaurants downtown. The food and the service have both been excellent. I hope you will all attend occa­sionally, and that everyone working doAv-ntouTi will attend regularly. 
—LARRY SMITH, '33 
Rochester 

On Saturday, June 21st, at Locust Hill Country Club, the Rochester Club in conjunction with the Campus Club held its annual Summer Dance. Jack LeRoux and his orchestra furnished the music for the dancers, who tripped the light fantastic till the wee small hours. 
The next affair on the agenda is the annual Family Picnic, which is to be held this year on August 10th, the site as yet unsettled. This is the occasion for Students, Alumni, Wives, and Pros­pective Alumni (classes '62 through *72) to get to­gether. The big feature this year as usual ^v•i^ be the Softball game between Alumni and Students. The Old Men will be out to stretch their victory string to three straight. 
—TOM HIGGINS, M8 
Soginow Volley 

Thirty-three members of the Saginaw Valley Notre Dame Chib met at Bertrand's Restaurant in Bay City for Universal Notre Dame Night for dinner and election of officers for preceding year. 
Messrs. THOMAS CARROLL, Ml, and 
28 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
GEORGE WARD, *40, arranged the affair. Films received from the Universtiy on the workings of Notre Dame were shown and were well received. 
^fembcr CARL DOOZAN, *38, gave the blessing before meal. Secretary-Treasurer VINCENT T. BOYLE, M9, reported on the progress of the club roster, membership and contact crommittees. 
The Treasurer's report showed thirty-seven dues paying members of a club roster and mailing list of graduates and old students in this area of 85. 
The club treasurj- balance as of this date is $594.59. 
PAUL BRYSSELBOUT, '29, President, wel­comed members and reported and analyzed the club's acti\ities for the past year. Mr. Bryssel­bout outlined the success and near success of events during the past year and suggested sc\"eral things tliat had come to his attention that might be corrected; that the Annual Communion Break­fast might be held in Midland to encourage the eight members we have there; that the Valley Parochial Football Banquet should be carefully reviewed before attempting another and that for the effort and results club members might simply present these awards at the cliampton school's banquet or achievement day. Mr. Br>-ssclbout en­couraged the continuance of the Rockne Memorial Family Communion Breakfast as it was one of the year's outstanding events. The President in addition advanced the suggestion of investigation of some form of scholastic awards—an au'ard to each Valley Catholic school of scholastic achieve­ment to further the cause and reason of another phase of Notre Dame and the club. 

Election of officers followed. Conducted by the nominating committee of Messrs. ROY McCOL-GAN, '48, HERBERT SCHNETTLER, '22, FRANK KiRCHKfAN, '38, and GERRY CAR­ROLL, '46. 
President, HAROLD LAPPIN, '32, 508 McCos­kry, Saginaw; Vice-President, JAMES KAVA­NAUGH, 2229 McKinlcy, Bay City; Secretary-Treasurer, JOSEPH CATALANI, 1209 S. Michi­gan, Saginaw; Board of Directors, ROBERT HER­RINGTON, '43, (term unexpired, expires 1953); WILLL\M HENDRICK, to succeed CARL DOO­ZAN, '44 (term expires 1954); CHARLES KRETSCHMER, '33, (term unexpired, uqiires 1953); ALBERT BAUMGARTNER, '48, (term un­expired, expires 1953); PAUL BRYSSELBOUT, '29, immediate past president. 
£ight>'-five alumni and guests of the Saginaw Valley Notre Dame Club met at St. Matthew's of Zilwaukee, for 9:30 Mass and Communion with their families. Breakfast was ser\'ed by the ladies of the parish and was of the finest quality: ham and eggs, sweet rolls and coffee. NEIL BARNETT, '36, and JOHN MEAGHER, '29, tied for repre­sentation with six children apiece. HUB KIRCH­MAN, '38, was attended by five. Rev. Eugene F. Forbes, pastor, gave the blessing and provided a short interlude of music. Everyone agreed it was a line affair and gave indication that they would like to see it as an annual affair. TOM VAN AARLE, '21, was chairman. Messrs. TOM CAR­ROLL, '14, WILUAM MEAGHER, AL BAUM­GARTNER, '48, HUB KIRCHNLU*^, '38, and CARL DOOZAN, '38, served as committeemen. 
—VINCEN'T T. BOYLE, '49 

St. Joseph Volley 
The St. Joseph Valley Club had a record turn­out of approximately 200 members and guests at the annual picnic and golf outing on June 11th. The affair was held on the Notre Dame golf course with FATHER GEORGE HOLDERTTH, C.S.C., '18, as host. 
The tournament began at 10:30 in the morning and was climaxed with an open-air barfoccue cooked "Western style" at 6 o'clock in the eve­ning. Prizes were distributed; GEORGE EICH­LER, '40, was chairman. 
—HARRY F. KOEHLER, '37 
St. Louis 

Since the last report of the St. Z^ouis Club, another director has been taken in death by the Good Lord. TOM McDERMOTT, class of 1934, was killed in an automobile accident while return­ing from reserve duty at the local Na\*al Air Sta­tion. Tom had been a director of the club for the last three years, having one more year to serve. 
It was in the previous report that we mentioned the death of BUD HABERKORN, '33, also a di­rector and very active member of the club. 
On June 15th the St. Louis Club held its annual picnic at Tammi's Grove outside of St. Louis. The temperature was 102 degrees in the shade and it was feared the extreme heat would affect the turnout. Two hundred members and their guests showed up, however, and the day w*as thoroughly enjoyed by all in attendance. 
Club president, JOE GOLABOWSKI, '31, has laid the groundwork for an ambitious program of activities for the coming year. Committees have been appointed to handle the various functions and work is progressing satisfactorily on all of them. 
Our next meeting will be the party for new stu­dents entering the University in the Fall. This wilt take place around the first of September. 
—GEORGE WRAPE, '48 
South Jersey 

In accordance with previous notification, election of officers was held at the club meeting June 19 at Kenney's Restaurant in Camden. Your officers for the next year arc: 
BILL MCCORMICK , '47, Woodbury, president; JIM WEBB, '48, Pennsauken, vice-president; MATT CAMPANELLA, '49, Mammonton, secre­tary-treasurer. 
Elected to the Board of Directors were JACK MURPHY, '49, past president, FRANK VITTORI, '49, and HARRY YEAGER, '50. 
At the meeting, a club constitution was sub­mitted, discussed and tentatively approved. 
Following adoption of the constitution, JACK MURPHY, chairman of the Football Ticket Com­mittee, will report on raffle plans for a flock of ND-Penn tickets. All raffle plans were completed at a committee meeting at BILL McCORMICK's on July 3rd. 
Our first annual outing was held on Sunday, June 8th, at the Egg Harbor City Park. FATHER HAYDEN, '44, made all tlie arrangements and a bang-up time was had by all. 
The outing was a family affair with games for the children, bathing and dancing. This will be the only social event on the Club Calendar tiU Fall. 
Spokone 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held in the Spokane Hotel with FATHER ROBERT SWEE­NEY, C^.C , of the University of Portland, as 
(L. to R.): Morris Starrett receiving his Man-of-the-Ycar award from Jerry Kane, 
past president of the Western Washington Cluh. 

principal speaker. About 45 club members and their guests attended. 
Mr. George Kelton joined the Club as a Notre Dame friend. He has a son now attending the University. 
The Club extends their sympathy to the family of the late Mr. HENRY J. BROSNAHAN. Mr. Brosnahan, who received the Notre Dame Man-of­the*Ycar certificate, died recently. 
Spokane Club members and their wives staged their annual Summer outing during the visit of JOHN CACKLEY.' Arrangements were in charge of JIM LYNCH, MO, club president. 
Tri-Cities 
The Notre Dame Club of the Tri-Ciiies Iield its annual family picnic at the Spring Brook Country Club in DcWitt, Iowa, on June 28. As usual, it was the high spot of the Club's yearly activities. A large crowd was on hand for the day of golfing, horseshoe pitcliing, games and, of course, the smor­gasbord picnic dinner. CHARLES KING, '21, was the general chairman of the event, with help from such stalwarts as President ED MEAGHER, '21, and Cameraman RALPH EHR, '33. 
The next event is to be a fish fry on the shores of the Rock River on August 8. JIM DOYLE, '42, is general chairman of the event with RALPH CORYN, '22, GEORGE VANDER VENNETT, '32, and AL ERSKINE, '37, as his assistants. The party will be stag with friends of Notre Dame invited to join us in a meal of Mississippi channel catfish. Don't miss it. 
—EMMETT KEENAN, '42 

Tucson 
The Notre Dame Club of Tucson, Arizona, met on April 14 in the American Legion Club in that city. A business meeting followed a delicious steak 
Placement Director Dooley Cites Need for Graduates 
The demand for capable college graduates is greater than ever, accord­ing to William R. Dooley, '26, director of the Notre Dame Placement Office. On the basis of his liaison work be­tween the 1952 graduating class and employers throughout the country. Bill believes that talented young men are being sought intensively in almost every field. 
"The average employer will make no distinction between the draft-exempt and those men liable to the draft," he continued, and stated that most firms make ability rather than availability the deciding factor in their selections. The great majority of busi­nessmen will readily take the chance of seeing a good man go into the serv­ice after three or four months of their training, with the hope of his return after military discharge. 
A study of the June graduating class from Notre Dame would seem to bear out the fact that technical students are in the greatest demand, with all kinds of engineers, physicists, chemists, and 
dinner. The following officers for the year were elected: 
President, ED LARKIN, ^44; vice-president, KEN BAYLY, '50; secretary, BOB O'CALLAGHAN, '45; treasurer, ELMER BESTEN, '27. 
No other important business was conducted. Of interest was KEN BAYLY's award of a blaster's Degree by the University of Arizona. 
—ROBERT E. O'CALLAGHAN, '45 

Utah 
JOHN CACKLEY visited the Utah Club in Salt Lake City on July 12th en route to the American Alumni Council conference at Sun Valley. 
Washington, D. C. 
The Washington club members and their families attended a Mass celebrated by FATHER BER­NARD RANSING, C.S.C., as a farewell gesture prior to his leaving for a new assignment in New York. 
The Chib held a June dance and cocktail party at the Carlton Hotel with JOHN P. BRADDOCK, '38, as chairman. 
West Virginia 
The newly elected ofHccrs for the Notre Dame Club of West Virginia are as follows: 
President, ROBERT E. SHOEMAKER, '40; Vice-President, FRANCIS SHEETS, '41; Secretary-Treasurer, PATRICK MORRISON, '40. 
—DONALD G. LEIS, '42 

Accounting majors are also vigor­ously sought, as are men interested in a sales career. With regard to the lat­ter, ability and the desire to enter sales work are the necessary prerequisites, rather than any specific college major. 
Dooley attributes the increased de­mand for capable graduates to a gen­eral business prospierity, to higher pro­duction brought about by fighting in Korea and armament expansion, and to the miUtary drain on our available manpower, although he believes the steel shortage is acting to some degree as a tem[)orary equalizer against these factors. 
"Notre Dame Football 
Preview" Now on Sale 
The 1952 Fighting Irish Football Preview, prepared especially for sjjorts 
•writers and announcers, is now on sale to Notre Dame alumni and the general public. 
Among the features are biographies and pictures of the players, coaches and Athletic Department; information about each opponent; listing of all Notre Dame All-Americans; Notre Dame all-time records; and 1951 statistics. 
The Preview, prepared by Charles Callahan, Director of Sports Informa­tion, and the Department of Publica­tions, is priced at 50c. The Football Review, printed at the end of the season as a special edition of the SCHOLASTIC, also may be ordered at 50c—$1.00 for bodi. Orders with re­mittance should be sent to the De­partment of Publication, Notre Dame, Ind. 
mathematicians  included  in  their  Among those celebTating UND Night in New Yoilc Gty were (L. to R.): Co-chainnan Bill  
ranks.  Fallon; Father Maurice Powers; President Herb Giorgio; aiid Ghairman Al Perrine.  
Aug.Stpt.,  1952  29  

cently. He was district Manager for International 
Harvester in Spokane. Mr. Brosnahan is sur\*ivcd 
by his \%-ifc, three daughters, and one son. 

CHARLES J. HIRSCHBUHL, '22, died recently gg^saai^^^g^ij y^riijfist^SSSmSS^^fS'i''^ in Portland, Oregon. He was a trustee of Port­land University. 
liBailiifflMi^iiB 
Engagements 

Miss Lois Anne Kvscr and LA^^•RENCE P. KEENAN, '48. Miss Joan Marie Berliner and JOSEPH A. GERARDI, JR., '50. Miss Miriam Elizabeth O'Brien and FRANK J. McCANN, '31. 
Miss Jean Cogan and THOMAS H. MULLEN, '51. Miss Mar>- Ann Kalal and RICHARD E. TEPE, '51. Miss Jacqueline Brcuer and DENNIS B. DE­LANEY, '52. Miss Bcttv Ann Hurslcl and GERALD S. KLEE, '52. 
Marriages 

Miss Dolores Ann FiuSimon and EDW.ARD G. CONROY, '30, San Antonio, Te.\-as. Miss Rosa Graciela Marcos and DR. JEROME F, CORDES, '45, St. Louis, Mo. Miss Doris Elisabeth Wolf and FRANK J. CURRAN, '45, Bronmille, N. Y. 
Miss Jean Rita Har\ev and DR. JAMES E. VANDERBOSCH, '47, Notre Dame, Ind., April I9th. 
Miss Margaret Mary Donoliuc and JAMES J. JOHN, '48, Notre Dame, Jnd., May 31st. Miss Joyce Marv- Mickclson and FRANCIS P. KNEELAND, '48, Madison, Ws., February- 23rd. Miss Margaret Shilts and EDWARD R. FLEM­ING, '49, South Bend, Ind. 
Miss Dorothy Agnes Butcher and GEORGE E. FLEMMING. JR., '49, Chicago, III., August 2nd. Miss Mar>- Bcmadine Buckley and THOMAS J. 
GALLAGHER, '49, Chicago, 111., June 28th. 
Miss Marjoric Ann Forster and NORMAN D'. GARDNER, '49, Kalamazoo, Mich., June 23th. Miss Anne Marie McDowell and LAURENCE 
J. SUTTER, JR., '49, Akron, Ohio, June 2Ist. 
_Miss Barbara Foley and JOSEPH H. CLANCY, '30, Arlington, Mass. 
Miss Margaret Castle Roberts and JOHN F. McGOLDRICK, '30, Salem, N. J., May 10th. Miss Dorothy MuIloUy and ROBERT T. MUR­PHY, '50, St. Louis, Mo., April I4th. Miss Ruth Virginia Creedon and JOHN J. RYAN, JR., '50, Memphis, Tenn., June 2Ist, Miss Sally Ann Schacffcr and JEROME J. TERHAAR, JR., '50, Snyder, N. Y., June 7th. Miss Jacqueline Thompson and BERNARD L ^\•EIGAND, '50, iilishawaka, Ind. _Miss Jane M. Pilarski and RICHARD F. CALEF, '51, Notre Dame, Ind., July 5th. 
Miss Virsinia Ann Marshall and THOMAS M. CLAYDON, '51, New Rochelle, N. Y.. April 26tli. _Miss Martha Jane Nicliolson and LT. PAUL F. 
KOMORA, '31, Notre Dame, Ind., August 2nd. Miss Evel>-n Jean Grunert and NORM.AN KOPEC, '31, South Bend, Ind., June 7th. Miss Margaret Patricia McBridc and L.-VWRENCE 
W. McCABE, JR., '51, Mattitucic, N. Y., June 7th. Miss Patricia Ann Cain and THOMAS L. MUR­RAY, '51, Mishawaka, Ind., July 12th. Miss Mary Jean McMahon and JOSEPH L RIGALI, JR., '51, Oak Park, 111., July I2th. Miss Carol Lee Tiede and DANIEL C. CURTIS JR., '52, Notre Dame, Ind. ' Miss Suzanne E. Clements and JOHN R. DEGAN '32, South Bend, Ind. Miss Donita Rose Miles and JOHN M. FURIN '52. Notre Dame, Ind., July 12lh. ' Miss Patricia Koch and THOMAS L. KING '52, South Bend, Ind., May 31st. ' Miss Betty Lou Becker and LOUIS J. POLMAN '52, South Bend, Ind., June 7th. ' 
Miss Elizabeth Jones and SGT. JOSEPH A. CAPARO, JR., were married recently in Virginia. Sgt. Caparo's father is dean emeritus of the de­partment of electrical engineering at Notre Dame. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Births 

Mr. and Mrs. ELI J. SHAHEEN, '34, a daugh­ter, Christine Ann, on Julv 16. Dr. and Mrs. FRANCIS E. SCHLUEH-ER, '33, a son. on April 27. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN N. CACKLEY, JR., '37, a daughter. Marguerite, June 13th. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH P. QUINN, JR., '37, 
a son, Jeffry Joseph. February 24th. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL H. ANDERSON, '38, a 
daughter, Collettc, in Pittsburgh on June 17th. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. GRIFFIN, '39, a son. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. HART. '40, a daugh­
ter, Kathleen Mary, May 16. 

Mr. and Mrs. ^VILLIAM McINERNY, '40, a daughter, Anne Patricia, June 2nd. Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL F. SALLO\VS, JR., '40, a son, Daniel Francis, Mav I7th. Mr. and Mrs. FRANK SANFILIPPO, '40, a daughter, Mary Regina, February 14th. Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES C. BROGCER, '41, a son, Paul Jerome, May 15lh. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD TOMCIK, '41, a son, Michael E., May 20lh. Mr, and Mrs. JOSEPH E. BROUSSARD II, '41, a son, on June 28. Mr, and Mrs. PAUL E. NEVILLE, '42, a daugh­ter, July 16th. Mr. and Mrs. 'WILLIAM MIDDENDORF, '43, a daughter, Peggy, Mav 18th. Mr. and Mrs. QUENTIN S. STURM. '43, a son, Roger William, May 3rd. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN L. WIGGINS, '43, a daughter, Martha Mary, June 7th. Mr. and Mrs. DOMINIC F. BOETTO, '44, a son, Joseph Martin, July 15th. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH A. CONERTY, '44, a daughter, Mary Thercse, June 8th. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT L. CARPEN'TER, '44, a son, Robert Albert, April 13th. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM M. HEALY, JR., '44, a son, David, May 13th. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT MARTINA, '44, a son, Paul, April 6tli. Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL J. TOMCIK, '44, a son, Thomas Michael, Jantiary 28th. Mr. and Mrs. AL CIZAUSKAS, '45, a son. Albert. Charles. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS MULHERN, '43, a daughter, ^fichclle Marie, May 14th. Mr. and Mrs. L^UIAR E. GOHN, '47, a daugh­ter, June lOtli. Mr. and Mrs. LOUIS C. COLLERAN, '47, a son, Micliael Chester, July 16, Mr. and Mrs. GUS VARLAS, '47, a son July 3th. Mr. and Mrs. VERNON B. BENNETT, '48, a daughter, Sandra Lee, December, 1931. Mr. and Mrs. WALTER KRONEBERGER. '48. a son, John Roger, February 22. Mr. and Mrs. ROY B. LAUGHLIN, '48, a son. Roy Benedict, May 20tli. Mr. and Mrs. 'G . DAVID MURPHY. '48, a daughter, Barbara Anne, June 15th. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. DONLAN. '49 a daughter. * ^fr. and Mrs. GEORGE H. STUHR. JR., '49 a daughter. Maria Jeanne, May 16th. ' 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN E. SWEENEY. '49, a son John Edward, April 20t!i. ' Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR LUPINSKI. '31. a son 
Steven, July 6th. ' Mr. and Mrs. CLAUDE S. MAZZOCCO. '51 a son, Mark Edward, April 27th. 
Deaths 
PATRICK E- BURKE. '88, died recently at Stillu-atcr, Mmn. The holder of three degrees from >otrc Dame, mcluding an honorary law degree nrVr^Pi""*"^ ^ survived bv two sons, BOLAN BURKE, »28, Gibbons Burke, and a nephew JOHN C. BURKE, '14. ^ * 
HENRY J. BROSNAHAN, U7, an active mem­bcr of the Spokane, Washington, Club, died re­

COL. JAMES C. O'CONNOR, *29, commander of the Washington National Airport, died June 24th in his sleep. 
During World AVar II, Jim ser\ed a total of 37 months overseas \\-ith the Ninth Air Force in Egypt, Tripoli, Sicily, England, France and Ger­many. He returned to' civilian life for several years immediately after the war but came back on active duty in 1948. He is sun-ived by his father, James C. O'Connor, Sr., and his sister. Miss Mary C. O'Connor. 
FRANK CORBETT, '30, died in July after an illness of several weeks. 
JOHN A. JORDAN. '32, died recently. Mr. Jordan, who majored in accounting at Notre Dame, was an attorney in New York City. 
JOHN T. LaFORGE. JR.. '32. was killed in an auto accident the first week of June. 
LT. THOMAS B. McDERMOTT. '34, U.S.N.A., died June 2 in St. Louis. He is sur\ivcd by his mother, Mary B. McDermott, and a sister, Mrs. Lawrence A. Dunne. 
BROTHER GARNIER, C.S.C, '39, died May 11 in the Notre Dame Infirmary. Brother worked in the department of arcliives at Notre Dame, and since 1949 had been editor of a monthly bulletin publbhed at Notre Dame, "Brothers of the Holy Cross." He was the author of a recent book, "Holy Cross Brothers from France to Notre Dame '' 
RICHARD W. BURKE. '40, died this June "in South Bend. He was graduated from the depart­ment of accounting in the School of Commerce. 
JOHN D. TOUSIGNANT 
J?^,, ° - TOUSIGNANT. '42, died July 17, 190.2, followmg major surger>- in St. Vincent Char­ity Hospital, Cleveland, O. He is sun.ived by his wife, Betty, a son, Gar>-. and his parents, Mr. and -Mrs. E. J. Tousignant. John was in charge of personnel, fiscal and procurement alTairs at the Lewis Laboraton- of the National Advisory Com­mittee for Aeronautics. 
CHARLES A. ZICKGRAF. '49. was killed June 
1 in an auto accident at Fort Wayne. Indiana. He 
was a graduate of the school of commerce 
REV FRANCIS E. BITER, an alumnus of Notre Dame died July 2 while visiting his fam­ily m Erie. Pa. He had a parish in Kansas Citv, Missouri^ and was chaplain of the Kansas Ciiy Notre Dame Club. 
• 
Sympothy 
^?"^p.?o.?.V-'**^^' '»• "' '<= d""' of I-" 
uncle, PATRICK E. BURKE. '88 
THOMAS E. COOKE. '24 on ' the death of 
his Wife, 
An^?S^^L •'• '^P^"'"'. '23, and JOSEPH L. 
ADRIAN. 39, on the death of their father, Francis 

L. Adrian, June 12 in Pleasantville, New Yorlc. I left school and then joined the IBM Company JOHN J. DONAHUE, '29, on the death of his in sales work. Again, may I say that I am not 
sister, Florence, St. Mary's of Notre Dame, '27. only regretful but somewhat sorrowful that it is THOMAS KASSIS, '31, on the death of hU impossible for me to be with you during the 
45 YEAR 

reunion.'* To ROBERT E. LEE, JR., '32, and MAURICE A letter from Mrs. J. D. NOLAN states that mother. 
AV. LEE, '33, on the death of their father on her husband Jim died on July 12, 1949. Jim was July 15, 1952. one of our classmates and we want to offer our ADRIAN BASKERVILLE, '33, on the death of deepest sympathy to Mrs. Nolan. 
REUNION 
JUNE 12-13-14

his sister. BIFFY LEE recently retired from business and WILLIAM K. HANIFIN, '33, on the death he and his wife have been on a six months tour of his wife. of the Southwest and West. He writes that he 
REUNION REGISTRANT 

EDWARD ECKERT, '33, on the death of had a fine visit with GEORGE PHnBROOK in his father. Portland, Oregon, and also BILL SCHMITT, *1D. 
FRANK CULL CAMILLE GRAVEL, '35, on the death of Biffy states that last' August on a trip through his father. oil and pipeline companies and is an active member the Rockies, he located SPEEDY HARVAT, '13, at WILLIAM J. CASAZZA, '35, on the death of of the Notre Dame Alumni Club there. Livingston and TURK OAAS, *14, at Butte, Mon­his fatlier. * , tana. They played guards in 1911. THOMAS J. MORAN, '35, on the death of his mother in Detroit. 
1909 
THOMAS H. LUCKEY, '37, on the death of 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

his father in Nilcs, Mich. 
E. P. CARVILLE AND AL MERTES Frank Sweeney, '19,' is now RICHARD BURKE, '40, on the death of hb 
CHARLES DE LUNDEN is now living at 93 
father. manager of the Hotel Hayes in 
Rue St. Amand, Stroombeeck-Bever, Belgium. 
Jackson, Michigan. Alumni trav­1897 eling to or from the East might 
1910 
REUNION REGISTRAN'T be interested in knowing that the 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 
MARTIN J. COSTELLO 

E. F. WALES, HARRY MILLER AND Hayes is located only 38 miles CLAUDE SORG. 
from the football stadium in East 
1901 Lansing. REUNION REGISTR,\NT 1911 WILL H. TIERNEY Fred L. Steers, Secy. 105 S. LaSalle St. Chicago, 111. REUNION REGISTRANTS 
1902 
ELMO FUNK, JAP LA^VTON AND REUNIOX REGISTRANTS 
FRED STEERS. 
40 YEAR 

ALBERT KRUG AND TIMOTHY CRIMMINS MR. J. J. HENNESSY was recently awarded the Golden Jubilee Medal, in recognition of the 50 
REUNION 

1912 
years he has spent as a graduate of Notre Dame. Young in heart, Mr. Hennessy inquires, "Now 
REUNION REGISTRANTS what arc you going to offer Diamond Jubilarians, 
JOHN BANNON, E. W. BRUCE, JOHN COS­JUNE 12-13-14 since foreknowledge would be an incentive to wait 
TELLO, JOE DONAHUE, DON HAMILTON, therefore?" 
BENEDICT KAISER, D. P. McDONALD, J. B. McGLYNN, CHET McGRATH, M. M. OSHE, 
MARCEL C. MILLER was also awarded the Paul R. Byrne, Secy. Golden Jubilee Medal. Mr. Hiller writes, "I am University Library 
FRED STEWART AND PHIL PHILLIP. at a loss to adequately express in words my feeling A letter from FRED J. BOUCHER stated how Notre Dame, Ind. of appreciation," and speaks proudly of the "whole much he regretted not being able to attend the REUNION REGISTRANTS work of mental and spiritual enlightenment . . . reunion. Fred writes: HARRY KIRK, BILL MILROY, JIM O'BRIEN Notre Dame has done and will continue to do for *'I only practiced law for a couple of years after AND JIM O'HARA. the younger generations privileged to enter its portals.'* JOSE M. FALOMIR is the third member of tkc 
class of *02 to receive the Golden Jubilee ^^edal. "Kindly accept my heartfelt thanks for this beau­Brian S. Odem, Houston's Man-of-the-Ycar, is congratiilated by Harry StuUdreher as tiful token," writes Mr. Falomir from South Amer­Paul J. Doyle, who presented the award, loolis on. 
ica. "I Iiave no words to express the deep emotion this act has caused me." 
1904 
REUNION REGISTRANT 
G. A. FARABAUGH 

HENRY E. BROWN writes: "I retire at the end of this year as Assistant Treasurer in cliarge of the Txx Department of the Snger Manu­facturing Company, after forty-four years of ser\-­ice, including twenty-one years (1908-1929) in the Latin American Department of Singer Sewing Ma­chine Company." 
1905 
REUNION REGISTRrUTT DANIEL O'CONNOR 

1906 
REUNION REGISTR,\NT REV. CHARLES DOREMUS, CS.C. 

1907 
REUNION REGISTRANTS JIM CUNNINGHAM, DENNIS LANNON AND REV. AMLLIAM MALONY. 
W. H. STUEVE was awarded a professional de­gree in mechanical engineering by Oklahoma A & M at the June Commencement. He is a consult­ing engineer In Oklahoma City for several major 
1914 
REUNION REGISTRANTS WALTER CLEMENTS, POYNTELLE DO^^•NING, 
E. A. KANE, RAY MILLER, DONAT PEPIN AND JOE SMITH. 
1915 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 
N. C. BARTHOLOMEW, JOE FARRELL, JOE HEALY, ERNEST LAJOIE AND JIM SANFORD. 
1916 
REUNION REGISTR.ANTS HUGH CARROLL, TIM GALVIN, E. J. FREUND, 
A. F. FRIES, LOU KEIFER, PAT MALOXEY AND J. J. SYL\'ESTRE. 
1917 
EdH-ard J. McOsker, Sec>-. 
2203 Biiaiwood Rd. 
Clneland Hts. 15, Ohio 
REUNION REGISTRANTS CHARLES BACHMAN, LEO BERNER, JOHN CASSIDY, DICK DALEY, OSCAR DORWIN, JOE FLYNN, PAUL FOGARTY, ROLAND GAU­PEL, R. J. GRAHAM, HARRY HANSBERRY, DAN HILGARTNER, AL KRANZ, HARRY KELLY, BILL KENNEDY, STEVE McGONIGLE, JIM McMAHON, AUSTIN McNICHOLS, ED Mc-OSKER, FRED MAHAFFEY, JOHN MILLER, REV. MICHAEL MULCAIRE, C.S.C., CRIM O'BRIAN, BRIAN ODEM, FRANK O'DONNELL, LEO O'DONNELL, LEON RUSSELL, HARRY SCOTT, GEORGE SHANAHAN, M. F. SULLI­VAN, E. C. TOBIN, LEO VOGEL, BERNIE VOLL AND LAWRENCE WELCH. 
BERNARD J. VOLL, '17, was recently ap­pointed chairman of the 46th annual Christmas Seal Sale of St. Joseph County, Indiana, by the St. Joseph Tuberculosis League. 
35 YEAR REUNION 
JUNE 12-13-14 
BILL ANDRES, EDWIN BREEN, L. A. GLASS-COrr, JOE RILEY AND JIM WALLACE. 

Members of the Class of 1918 attending the St. Joe Hall Reunion on the campus June Gth, 7th and 8th were FATHER RAY W. MURRAY, FRANCIS J. HURLEY, HON. J. HARRY SYL­VESTER and LORENZO GLASCOTT. According to all reports a wonderful time was had by all. 
The next reunion is our own class reunion which will be our 35th retmion, June of 1953. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we could turn out 50 percent of our class for that reunion? 
1919 
REUNION REGISTRANT TED RADEMAKER 
1920 

REUNION REGISTRANTS PAUL CONAGHAN, SHERWOOD DIXON, FRANK FARRINGTON. E. J. MEEHAN AND HARRY RICmVINE. The REV. STANISLAUS F. LISEWSKI, CJS.C, formerly of South Bcod and Notre Dame, and the present pastor of Holy Trinit>- Parish, Cliicago, was honored Sunday evening, June 8th, at the 41st Conunencemcnt of Holy Trinity High Scliool, Chi­cago, as its ''Alumnus of the Year." 
Father Lisewski was presented with a desk plaque by BROTHER REGINALD JUSZCZAK, C^.C., *38, principal, and formeriy a teacher at South Bend Central Catholic, which bore a bronze plate citing him for a "long and distinguished record.*' 
32 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ND past, present and future are in this picture of the Fernando De Ramona family at Are­quipa, Peru. Mr. Romano is a *23 grad, Fernando is now a student, and Pcpe will enter in 54. 
1921 
REUNION REGISTRANTS EDMUND MEAGHER AND REV. ROBERT J. SHEEHAN, CS.C. 
1922 
Gerald A. Ashe, Secy. 
39 Cambridge St. 
Rochester, New York 

REUNION REGISTRANTS GERALD ASHE, HENRY ATKINSON, JOE BE­HAN, R. A. BLACK, FRANK BLASIUS, FRANK BLOEMER, GERALD BRUBAKER, EMMET BURKE, EDWIN BYRNE, JIM CARMODY, AL CARROLL, PETE CHAMPION, RALPH CORYN, DAN COUGHLIN, JOHN CULLEN, JERRY DKON, ED DUNDON, CYRIL FITES, BOB GALLOWAY, LARRY GOLDCAMP, HOWARD HALEY, VINCE HANRAHAN, GEORGE HENE. GHAN, JOHN HIGGINS, GERRY JONES, JIM JONES, RAY KEARNS, GEORGE KERVER, L. 
J. LOVETT, TOM McCABE, H. E. McKEE, FRANK MILES, JIM MURPHY, TOM OWENS, PAUL PADEN, PAUL PFOHL, ED PFEIFFEK, 
R. R. FHELAN, A. L REICHTER, R. R. REICH­ERT, JOE RHOMBERG, PAUL SCHWERTLEY, DAN SEXTON, JIM SHAW, MORGAN SHEEDY, CLARENCE R. SMITH, EUGENE SMOGER, MARK STOREN, HAROLD WEBER, DR. MATT WEIS AND C. A. WYNNE. 
Our 30th anniversary- reunion gathering was highly successful despite the fact our attendance was down to about 60 from a figure of 104 for our Silver Anniversary reunion five years ago. In everything but attendance this year's reunion equalled or excelled the one in 1947. 
We tender our appreciation and thanks to every­one who contributed in any way tow*ard the suc­cess of our reunion. We doff our hats to these great contributors: 
1.
 Every man who attended the reunion. 


2.
 FRED DRESSEL—the Reunion Director and General Chairman upon whose shoulders fell most of the work and worry of handling correspondence, arranging contracts, serving as treasurer, and mak­ing the "yes" and **no" decisions. Well done, Fred! 

3.
 HAROLD WEBER—the very gracious host who turned over his Diamond Lake paradise to our class for the social gathering on Friday afternoon and evening. 

4.
 AARON HUGUENARD—for his expert ad­vice, and records of five years ago which he turned over to Fred Dressel to sen'e as a pattern for our 30th. 

5.
 "RANGY" MILES—chairman of the Trans­portation Committee who with his committeemen, GENE SMOGER, PAUL SCmVERTLEY, PAUL PADEN and LEO LOVETT performed so efficient­


ly and so admirably that there were no accidents nor delay's of any kind in transporting all of our classmates on their motor trips from Notre Dame to Diamond Lake and return. We are very grate­ful to God that there were no accidents, and we commend Rangy and company for exercising great carv and judgment in' matters of transport. 
6.
 JACK HIGGINS — for liberal behind-the­scenes assistance to make the affair successful. 

7.
 ROBERT GALLOWAY —for splendid pub­licity in form of quoted verse to our classmates on the building of Notre Dame. 

8.
 An of the South Benders—BERNIE McCAF-FERY and others for their assistance to Fred Dressel and Harold Weber. 

9.
 FATHER ROBERT SHEEHAN, CS.C.,— for his kindness in celebrating a special Mass for our deceased classmates. 

10.
 To all members of the public relations com­mittee scattered throughout the country for splen­did cooperation. 

11.
 To DOCTOR MATT WEIS, RALPH CORYN, JOE RHOMBERG, BOB GALLOWAY, TOM McCABE, and others of the publicity com­mittee for excellent publicity. 


A class election to comply with the decree of the Notre Dame Alumni Board was held at Diamond Lake, Michigan, on Friday, June 6th. The fol­lowing men were elected to hold office for a five-year period: 
Honorary presidents, CHARLES J. HIRSCH­BUHL and DANIEL H. YOUNG; president, AARON HUGUENARD; vice-presidents, (east) HON. JAMES MURPHY, (midwest) A. HAROLD WEBER, (south) EDWIN J. BYRNE, (west) HON. AL SCOTT; treasurer, FRED B. DRESSEL; sec­retary, GERALD ASHE. 
We congratulate our newly elected officers—a mighty fine group except for the secretary who is the only dim bulb in the constellation. By the way, your secretary would be delighted to turn over his robes of office anytime to anyone who will volunteer for the job. 
30TH REUNION TIDBITS 

This reunion was predominantly a midwest affair. Only one New Englander was prescn:—HON. JIM MURPHY, of Bridgeport, Connecticut. No repre­sentative of the Far West appeared. The South had three delegates present—FRANK BLOEMER and EDDIE PFEIFFER of Louisville, Kv.. and EDDIE BYRNE, of Natdiez. Our ver>- friendly and popular delegate of South America—LOUIS BUSTAMENTE failed to show. Chicagoland was well represented by the faithful who never miss— CHET WYNNE, JERRY DIXON, TOM McCABE, GEORGE HENEGHAN, AL CARROLL. EM­METF BURKE, PAUL PFOHL, HAROLD Mc­KEE, and a few others but there were many Chicagoland absentees. 
The grand prize for attendance goes to St. Louis, the city that is always in the lead when working on Notre Dame projects. St. Louis had 100 percent attendance. Our congratulations go to CYRIL f IT£S> DOCrrOR DAN SEXTON and DOCTTOR MATT WEIS who turned in the perfect attend­ance record. 
The weather was just perfect at Diamond Lake. We have Harold Weber as authority for saying that the night of our picnic was the finest night of the season up to that time. By midnight, one was still comfortable without coat or sweater. 
CHARLIE HIRSCHBUHL and DAN YOUNG would have given almost anything to be able to attend our reunion. Charlie was prevented by ill­ness from leaving his Portland, Oregon, home, and Danny Young was busy atop the Chilean Andes as General Manager of Foley Hcrmanos Ltd. located at Chuquicamata. On July 5, Dan wrote to say he has arranged to have a Kfass said for deceased members of our class, and another Mass for living members. Many thanks to you, Dan, for your thoughts of us, and for that fine spiritual bouquet. 
JIM McCABE of Los Angeles called via long distance telephone to see if the party was pro­gressing favorably. 
A letter of regret was received from FATHER GEORGE FISCHER, C.S.C., indicating that a re­treat would prevent his attendance at the reunion. This was a cruel blow to most of the boys of '22 who have not seen Father George since our under­graduate days. We are very grateful to Father George for the special Mass he celebrated for the living and deceased of the class of 1922 on Sunday, June 8th. 
Again our thanks to FATHER ROBERT GAL­L.AGHER for his remembrances of the living and dead of '22, at the shrines of Europe upon his \'isit to the Eucharistic Congress and other holy places preventing his presence at our 30th. 
A trip to the hospital kept JIM DOOLEY away from our reunion. A trip to Phoenix, Arizona, st>'mied JACK HUETHER. FRANK OTT had to give Troy, N. Y., an assist in celebrating an an­niversao*. WALTER STUHLDREHER had to cancel plans for attending at the last moment on account of an emergency. ^Ve never did hear ^vhat happened to DOC JOHN KELLEY, of Utica, N. Y. Others like JOE FARLEY and WALTER SHILTS had members of the family graduating from schools or colleges. 
We deeply appreciate visits to our party at Diamond Lake by such guests of honor as FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH, CS.C. (former) President of the University, FATHER BOB SHEEHAN. CS.C , head of the Biology Department, and FATHER PAT HAGGERTY, ^vho is in charge of the Community Infirmarj*. The latter is one of our class chaplains. 
Pause and consider the temerity and effrontery of FRANK BLOEMER, EDDIE BYRNE, and youir secretary in appearing without coats for breakfast at the new Morris Inn on the Notre Dame campus. The rowdies were promptly given the merry heave-ho by the Inn attendants. \VeI!, what do you expect appearing in such attire on a hot morning, at such an informal time as a reunion gathering? This is precisely what would happen in yc olden times at Notre Dame, if students ap­peared at the refectory in pajamas for breakfast. Also, we imagine the same hospitality would be tendered visitors to the Court of St. James, if they were improperly suited. Notre Dame surely moves onward—shades of Old Notre Dame!! 
PAUL PFOHL came to tlie rescue of vagrants mentioned above (the coatless ones) and invited them as breakfast guests in the Paul Pfohl-JIM SHAW suite in the Morris Inn. Fortunately, Messrs. Pfohl and Shaw waived the no-coat rule for their guests. 
For this issue of the ALUMNUS, at least, we close the matter of our 30th reunion by quoting a letter received from Paul Pfohl ^vhich says a lot, and briefly: 
"It was a great treat spending the many hours with yourself and other members of our class over the reunion weekend. I will match the wonderful spirit which prevails amongst the boys of the class of~!22 "asmnst—thar of "any other group of Notre Dame men, and, therefore, I think it is unfor­tunate that we have to wait every five years for such a gathering. 
"With this thought in mind and in the hope that I shall see at least some of the gang in the interim, I wish you would please contact me when­ever you are in Chicago so that we c:an sustain our reminiscing." 
Our congratulations and best wishes to Father John Cavanaugh who is now leaving the presidency of Notre Dame. We of '22 arc very proud cf Father John's administration, and his fine accom* plishments. We commend our neighboring class of 1923 for having given us Father John. 
Our prayers and sympathy in the death of the mother of JOSEPH FARLEY of our class. God grant her life everlasting. 
REV. SIGMUND JANKOWSKI, C^.C . pastor of St. Stanislaus Parish in South Bend, has been named superintendent of the new consolidation of Central CathoUc and South Bend'Catholic High Schools. 
30 YEAR REUNION 
JUNE 12-13-14 

REUNION REGISTRANTS JOHN GLEASON, ED KELLY, ROGER KILEY, JOHN NORTON AND ED SHEA. 
BILL FITZGERALD, Evamville, has jmt been elected president of the Indiana Bar Association. 
1924 
Rev. Thomas A. Kelly, CS.C., Secy. Cavanaugh Hall Notre Dame, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS TOM COOK, NEWELL "DOC" DeGURSE, REV. THOMAS KELLY, CS.C , W. R. MAHER, 
FATHER TOM McAVOY is saying a Requiem High Mass for DAN "RED" CONNELL, CHARUE STANHOPE and LEONARD BURNS of Altoona who died in late 1951. We also are having a Mass said for the entire class both living and dead. 
HANK WURZER' is having the Alumni OfBce give him a complete and iip.to.<latc list of the deceased members of our class so that he can send a Memorial- Card to the entire class sometime this Fall. 
HAROLD WATSON made a fine suggestion which was as follows: "That one or two Masses be said for all the deceased members of our class on a certain day" . . . possibly the first Saturday of November and we will have a card sent out to the entire class so that they can go to Mass and Com­munion on that same flay. If any of you fellows have any suggestions along this line drop Hank or me a line. Send your dollar contribution to Mr. HENRY C. WURZER, 307 Kahl Bldg., Daven­port, Iowa. 
JOHN BARTLEY, who is with Reynolds & Co., 120 Broadway, in New York City advised your secretary some time ago that FRANCIS P. Mc-FADDEN was named vice-president and sales manager of the George A. McDevitt Company in New York City. Frank joined the company, a publishers representative concern, in 1931. He was back for our twenty-fifth reunion. Bartley adds that Frank is quite active in Catholic circles in his home town of Larchmont, New York. Congrat­ulations Frank and thanks to JOHN BARTLEY for this bit of news. How about the rest of yon *25er3 sending in news about yourself and items about your classmates. 
Your secretary and his wife attended the beau­tiful wedding of BERNARD FINNIGAN's daughter Eileen June (St. Blary's) to ROBERT MAHO­WALD, '33. The wedding breakfast was the first one to be held in the new Morris Inn. That Inn, 
Among the many enthusiastic alimmi gronps that celebrated UND N^;ht was this gathering of the Saginaw, Mich^an Cluh. 
EUGENE MAYL, JIM MEEHAN, BILL RYAN 
AND JIM S^VIFT. 

RAYMOND R. BRADY is now located at 141 Brockbank Professional Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, and is associated with the law firm Owen and Ward. 
1925 
John P. Hurley 
1218 at y Park Ave. Toledo, Ohio 
REUNION REGISTRANTS CY CALD^VELL, GEORGE LUDWIG, EDWIN LUTHER, DON MILLER, ROBERT "SLICK" O'NEILL AND JOE SHELLY. HANK \VURZER, of that famous Blackhawk Hotels chain, has taken time out of his very busy day to get out 333 letters to our class asking for 
a dollar or more to build up our 
Hank advised me after ten days received $85 from forty fellows and ters and money is still coming in to build the fund to at least $200. 
 Mass fund.  that he had  that the let­ and we hope 

by the way, is out of this world and is without question, the most beautiful hotel in America. A swell spot for a weekend but NOT during football season as they are sold out for the football week­ends in 1932. 
1926 
Jokm J. Ryan, Secy. 2434 Greeafcaf Ave. Chicago 45, m . 
REUNION REGISTRANTS BILL DOOLEY, JIM GRAHAM, J. ARTHUR HALEY AND G. W. MORSHES. 
JOSEPH DIENHART, '26, was recently pro­moted from head Purdue freshman football coach to assutant varsity coach by Guy Mackey, Purdue athletic director. 
JOSEPH E. BROUSSARD, JR., recently be­came a member of the grandfathers' club via a granddaughter, the child of his daughter, Mrs. Pat Warner. 
Amg.Sept., 1952 

JOSEPH P. FRISKE and liis family have just returned from Munich, Germany. Joe served for five years in Germany as a member of the stafT of the U. S. Military Government in Bavaria. 
1927 
Fnmlc Moran, Secy. 633 E. Monroe St. South Bend, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

FRANCIS A'HEARN, FRANK ANDREWS, \'INCE BALL, EMMETT BARRON, CHARLIE BERETZ, PAUL BERETZ, EDWIN BERKERY, SEBASTIAN BERNER, HARRY BIEDKA, JOE BOLAND, RAY BONINI, GENE BRENNAN, BILL BROD­ERICK, JIM BROWN, PAUL BUTLER, JOHN BUTLER, ED CALLAHAN, HUGH C.4MPBELL, PAT CANNY, JOHN CAREY, BILL C\TE, BILL CLARKE, PAT COHEN, JOHN CONLLV, TOM CONROY, FRANK CONWAY, BILL COOG.AN, BOB COONEY, JUSTIN CORCORAN, BILL COYNE. ALTON CROFOOT, L. E. CROWLEY, DAN CUNNINGHAM, JOHN D.\ILEY, BILL DEGNAN, JOE DELIA MARIA, BILL DOTTER­WEITH, AL DOYLE, MIKE DUFFECY, JOE DUNN, TOM DUNN, BERNIE EPSTEIN, BILL FINUCANE, D. A. FITZGERALD, CHRISTIE FLANAGAN, PAUL FRANTZ, NEIL GALONE, TON'Y GANDOLPH, JOE GARTLAND, JOHN GEARY, GEORGE GORDON, TOM GREEN, ED HAGERTY, BILL HALLORAN, DICK HALPIN, JOHN HALPIN, HAROLD HATCH, MAL HAT­FIELD, FRANK HAYES, TOM HEARDEN, LEO HERBERT, DAVE RICKEY, JOHN HICOK, BILL HILLENBRAND, W. M. HOLLAND, LOUIS HOUGH, JOHN HOWARD, RAY HUNT, BOB IRMIGER, HERB JONES, BILL KAVA­NAUGH, GENE KNOBLOCK, REGIS LAVELLE, 
S. J. LECHOWICK, JERRY LeSTRANGE, PHIL LOPRESn, DICK LYNCH, H. T. McCABE, DAN McCLUSKEY, W. H. McCULLOUGH, FRANCIS McCURRIE, JIM McFARLANE, JOE McGEE, E. F. McKENNA, ED McLAUGHLIN, 
J. J. McNEILE, R. C. MARELLI, CHARLIE MARTIN, FRANK KfASTERSON, CARL MAT­THES, E. J. MAYER, J. L. MAZZUCHELLI, A. 
W. MILLER, ART MONACO, REV. JAMES J. MOHAN, GEORGE MULLEN, JOE MURPHY, TOM NASH, RUSSELL NEAL, JOE NULTY, JOHN NYIKOS. HARRY O'BOYLE, T. E. O'CONNOR, JOE O'DONNELL, FRANK OEHL­HOFFEN, J. L. O'HANLEY, BILL O'KEEFE, JACK PATTON, FRANK PENDERGAST, JIM QUDJN, JOHN RODGERS, STEPHEN RONAY, CLARENCE RUDDY, EDWIN RYAN, REV. 
HARRY RYAN, CLYDE SCHAMEL, NORB SCHARF, GEORGE SCHILL, JERRY SECHOW­SKI, J. L. SHEERIN, PAT SIZE, JOHN SLAT­TERY, AL SMITH, GERARD SMITH, RAY SNYDER, BOB STEPHAN, ART SULLIVAN, J. 
E. SULLIVAN, W. B. SULLIVAN, MIKE SWY­GERT, BILL TRAVIS, CARL TYMAN, DAVID VAN WALLACE, JOHN WALLACE, TASS WA­TERSON, TED %VEIST, WALTER WILCOX, ER­NEST WILHELM AND EARL WORTHINGTON. 
WALTER "RED" SMITH, well-known sports writer of the New York Herald-Tribune", is cover­ing the 01>'mpic Games in Helsinki. 
25 YEAR REUNION 
JUNE 12-13-14 

Leo R. Mclntyre, Secy. 30(H Turner St. 
Allentou'n, Pa. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 
HAROLD COSGROVE, BILL MURPHY AND ED QUINN 

JOSEPH W. GRIFFIN, '28, has recently become associated with the law firm of Hinshaw, Culbert­son, Moclmann and Hoban, of Chicago, Illinois. 
A new book by JOSEPH A. BREIG, '28, has been published by McMuIIen Books, Inc., of New York City. The title of the book is "My Pants When I Die,'* and it is about, as Mr. Brcig puts it, "God, the kids and me." He is assistant managing editor of the "CathoHc Uni%"crsc Bulle­tin," CIe\'eland diocesan newspaper. 
This letter from LOUIS F. BUCKLEY was re­cently received by the Alumni Office: 
LEO McINTYRE has sent me your letter of June 13, 1952, concerning the 25-year reunion of the Class of 1928. I was pleased to receive this letter with your suggestion that wc all start early in planning for the reunions. 
"I am attaching a copy of a letter I sent to the ofHcers of the Class of 1928 June 20, prior to the receipt of your letter from Leo. I have had a response to date of only one letter from JACK CANIZARO, \ice-prcsident in the South. 
**I would Uke to place our request for the banquet at the Morris Inn for Friday, June 12. We would also like to have a Class Roster including Law '29 prepared to mail to classmates in the Fall. Will you please arrange for these items? It is my hope to meet with you sometime this summer to work out our plans." 
1929 
Larry Stauder, Acting Secy. 
En^Dccrins Building 
Notre Dame, Ind. 

REUNION REGISTRANTS FRANK JONES AND CLETUS SCHNEIDER 
It is a pleasure to have this response from BOB McVETY: 
"Right good to read MICKEY McMAHON's letter in the last issue. I've seen the big guy a number of times since our graduation and know that he has done all right. Klickcy has his family assembled in New Orleans. I have looked up his lad now attending Notre Dame. He is taller than the old man, resembles him but is better looking. The good looks come from his mother. 
"Haven't seen JOHN TEDDY in a long time. Last time w^as at his dad's funeral. John lives out on Long Island with his wife and mother. John's girl is the former Teresa Ryan of South Bend. 
"Two years ago I was standing with some friends in the lobby of the Conrad Hilton (Stevens at that time) hotel in Chicago when someone came up behind me and started to shove around. Turning to the assassin I found FRANK BELT­ING who was in town from St. Paul, Minn.; to attend a business meeting of the John Wood Co.; Superior Metalwork Div., where he sits as General Superintendent. Wonderful to see Frank. We went over and perched on a few stools in the inn in the comer and over a few cokes (s* help me) looked back over a wonderful and sometimes hard road of memories. 
"DON PLUNKETT dropped in here to say 'hello* a few years back. He was in New York to attend a scientific convention. We had lunch and a good bull session with GENE CONNELLY(?) who owns and operates two excellent restaurants around the comer from this building on 23rd St. Gene and his wife Dorothy (John Teddy's sister) have 3 bays and 3 girls in their lovely family. 
"As for McVETY—the usual story which so many of the '29ers can tell. Hard to get going during a black year of depression. Eleven years with Consolidated Edison, seven years with Sperry Gyroscope Co., and now five years with Reming­ton Rand as Safety Director. I have met LARRY MOORE at Safety Conventions in New York and Chicago. 
**My work involves considerable travel as there are many plants throughout the country. There is a point of satisfaction in the setup because I am enabled to get to Notre Dame a number of times each year where I always enjoy a grand visit with FATHER LOU THORNTON. Now, there's a man for you. Recently I had an assignment a: the annual Communion Breakfast of the Elmira, New York Council Knights of Columbus. Talked about the scholastic side of Notre Dame because JIMMY CROWLEY and BOB CONSIDINE had talked about athletics at ND during previous years. Where liid I get the material? From Father Lou Thorn­ton, of course. A grand friend. 
**In this company we have a number of ND graduates including JIM FOLEY, *27, who is Di­rector-Products and Methods Research and the happy dad of a boy 10 and a girl 6. VINCE HOGAN is one of the big wheels in our Type­writer Sales. BOB MAYOTTE recently transferred to Milwaukee as salesman of Municipal Accounts. He is one of a family of 7—4 of whom at­tended ND. 
"My family consists of Kate who married this guy some 18 years ago. Barbara 16 yrs.—Ann 14 yrs.—Jim 11 yrs.—and Cassie (Catherine Mary) age 4. And these people represent the one and only hobby I have. When Kate and I were mar­ried JOE KISSUNG, '28, was my best man. He and hn Lady watch over 3 lovely daughters. Joe 
sets high in the ]>gal Division of the Grumann 
A qamtet of the class of '17 sits down to tallc over old tunes. Aircraft Company out on Long Island. The Notre Dame Alumnus 
"Hope to sec you and other mates of '29 at the 25tfa Retinion/' 
In this summer of political conventions, our Class was represented by RUSSELL C. KUEHL. '29, South Bend attorney—and no doubt many others. Russell attended the State Convention at Indianapolis, as Delegate from South Bend, and tlic National Republican Convention as interested observer. I didn't recognize him in any of the TV scenes, did you? Russell continues to be active in the Kiwanis Club, St. Joseph County Bar As­sociation, Reserve Officers • Association—to mention only a few of his affiliations. On a recent trip to Florida with his wife, Mary, and sons. Carder, 15 years and James, 12, he happened on JIM WHITE, '28, of South Bend. It is a small world. He sees often GEORGE BEAMER, ED SMITH, '30, PAUL BUTLER. '27, and FRANCIS JONES. 
FRANCIS JONES is also practicing law in South Bend, acti^'e in the Indiana Club, the va* rious Bar Associations, Round Table, American Legion, Catholic Forum, and many other organ­izations. He recently visited Memphis on the occa­sion of the Cotton Camix'al, and met a number of ND men there (he didn't raenuon "MEMPHIS JOE" GAIA) including MONTE DOMICO. brother of Joe. Francis heartily recommends the carnival. 
JOSEPH O'BRYAN, still of HiattviUc, Kansas, writes that he sees CHARLIE MEYER and BOB TYLER, and expects to return for tlie 25th re­union in '54. 
Wc are glad to quote from WALTER GREER's 
much appreciated letter: "Dear Larry: In reply to 
your card I will jot down any activities since leav­
ing scliool. I u-as with Bell Telephone Labs until 
the depression hit. Later I was with RCA and 
Tung-Sol in connection with electron tube work. 
"In 1940 I left New York add took over the 
tube work for what is now the Electronic Divisions 
of the Bureau of Ships in the Nax-y Department. 
At present I am Chief Civilian in the Design 
Standard Brancli, which is concerned with tubes, 
components, assemblies, and reliability. 
"A few years ago I made a trip to tlie Univer­sity to see PROF ED COOMES, '31, who is doing some fine research work for us on Oxide Cathodes. However I was unable to get in touch u'ith you at that time. 
"In 1937 I married Jane Donovan, a New York girl, and we have two daughters, Lucille 10 and NIargaret 6. Both attend St. James School here in Falls Church. 
"At church I occasionally run into LARRY MOORE, who is a resident in the Falls Church area. The alumni club is active here but I fail to get to meetings as often as I would like. There seems to be a dearth of ND engineers here. BILL KARL, '31, a marine engineer, and I are the only ones in the Navy Department to my knowledge. Would like; to hear from some of the '29 EE's. 
1930 
D»-ere T. Hunkett, Secy. 
Social Science Building 
Notre Dame, Ind. 
REUNION KEGISTBANTS CHARLES LENNON AND JOE RAFTER 
1931 
James T. Doyle, Secy. 
6457 N. BeU Ave. 
Chicago 45, HI. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS CARL M; CRONIN, JOE DEEB, MATTHEW GARRIGAN AND LE^VIS O'SHEA 
Last month I sent out 50 postcards to various members of our class throughout the country ask­ing for news for the issue which closes copy July 18th. I received several very newsy and interesting letters which should spur others to similar activity. Certainly those who attended the Reunion in June, 1951, and promised their cooperation should redeem themselves by getting letters to me for the next issue. Otherwise cfaey may be the recqiient of collect long distance telephone calls. Get busy boys and save yourselves a little dough. 
At the '51 Reunion I managed to get a good snapshot of the Central Illinois trio ol MONAHAN, 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
HAROLD H. MUNGER 

Harold H. Munger, '15, was award­
ed a fellowship at the annual conven­
tion dinner of the American Institute 
of Architects in New York, June 26. 
Mr. Munger, of the Toledo, Ohio, architectural firm of Britsch & Munger, was cited by the professional society for "outstanding public service." With two other citizens of Toledo, he is cred­ited with securing for that city a large program of slum clearance and low-cost housing development. Several years ago the Charles Weiler Homes, one of the housing projects designed and supervised by his firm, were named among the 10 outstanding projects of that nature in the country. 
For many years Mr. Munger has been active in housing planning in Ohio and in Toledo. He is serving his second five-year term as a member and is a past president of the Ohio Board of Examiners of Architects. A son, Harold C. Munger, '51, recently received his degree in Architecture at Notre Dame. 
GRANT and SULLIVAN. I finally mailed these recently and received the following letter from TOM MONAHAN: 
"Dear Jim: 
"Thanks for your letter and snapshot taken at last year's reunion. We are having dinner with PAUL GRANT and his wife tonight, so will take your letter along. 
''Glad to hear you arc now in the loop, and while we do not get up that u-ay too often, will give you a ring and try to see you the next time we are there. Generally stop at the LaSalle Hotel, so believe you are nearby. 
"I hope you and your good wife. Kay, will 
stop in on your way to Mt. Carmel. We are goias 
to Michigan for the month of July, but I expect 
to be going back and forth, so stop in if 70a 
come this way during July. 
"Nothing new down here In the country. Do 
not see many '31ers. Family is all OK,^ and the 
kids are growing up fast. We took a trip to the 
West Coast last February, and stopped in Phoenix. 
Arizona, for a few days. I looked up BOB KEN­
DALL, who is now assistant state managier for the 
Equitable Life Assurance Society of America. Same 
old Bob, and had a good visit with him. He has 
realty done IXg things in the insurance game, and 
has a very nice position. Met TOM CONLEY in 
a hotel in Baltimore some months ago. 
"Have not had any fires here recently. I %vas out of town when the Mattoon explosions occurred, so Grant did not get a chance to do any heckling from the sidelines. 
"Jim, I know all the class really appreciates your efforts in bringing the 'Slers back to life through the column in the ALUMNUS. You are doing a great job. Keep up the good work. We nire appreciate it." 
PAUL GRANT also camj through with an in­
vitation for all his friends to visit him at his new 
address in Springfield: 
He writes: 
"Shortly after July 1, we arc moving to 2449 
Sorth Glenwood Avenue, Springfield, Illinois, where 
•we will be glad to sec ah our old friends. I am stil! with the Utility company, but will now be able to spend more time with my family. 
**I'm sorry to leave the A & M (Areola and 
Mattoon Notre Dame Club) but will leave it in 
the good hands of Vice-President MONAHAN. 
"It was nice of you to send the picture, and 
as you suggested, it did bring back memories of 
Monahan's bedroom slippers floating in the water 
resulting from melting ice and of the long and 
pleasant sessions we had at the reunion. Believe 
me, Jim, I never had a more wonderful time. 
"We enjoyed yours and Kay's visit, although it 
was much too short. Don't forget to come see us 
in Springfield and please keep up the wonderful 
work you arc doing in the 1931 column.'* 
SPIKE SULLIVAN, now in Tulsa, Oklahoma, 
also received a picture and I am waiting for h a 
letter for the next ALUMNUS. 
TONY ^VEITZEL, columnist in the Chicago Daily News, hail a quip about Grand Rapids: "Understand Grand Rapids is the safest town in America if the atom blasts ever start. Seems the)''ve got an old law over there. You can't drop bombs on Grand Rapids without special commis­sion from the city fathers." I think JOE DEEB, our U. S. barrister, should get the law repealed as a bomb seems about the only way to jolt the Grand Rapids *31ers into answering my postcards. I dare you fellows to write. 
I see by a change of address notice from the University that MICHAEL J. O'BRIEN of the O'Brien twins of '31 is back in Tampa, Florida. How about a letter for the next issue? 
Wonder what happened to FRANK LEDDY from San Diego, HUBERT "DOC" HOGAN, ED LACKAFF, DICK LACY and his pal BIU. FLA­HAVEN from Connecticut, HAROLD MAGNER, BILL BROWN from Boston, GERRY BUSTIN, JOE GARDEWINE and the Pittsburgh flash, DAVE NASH. 
DEAN SUTTON sent the following letter early in June: 
"Moving around so much (e^-en though I pay my rent) I don't get the ALUMNUS any sooner than it hits the dentist's outer offices. I enjoy the 1931 reports and appreciate you are making an honest to goodness effort to hold our non-organization minded class together. From one of the 600— THANKS. 
'*In between beers last June, I overheard that BERT MALONEY is in the Agriculture Implement business in Texas. Our company has been solicited by a French mamtfacturer of hand and automatic sprayers for some good outlets in this country. His prices and equipment are supposed to be hi^ily competitive with local products. The president of the company is here and has asked bis hays to' send documentation. In the meantime, if yoa have it, would you mind using the enclosed form to send me Bert's address. 
"Don't see many of our classmates hei% even though I attend most of the meetings. Guess most of the localites of our age have made enot ^ money to move out of town to Westchester or Connecticut. Living in this to%«rn is like hitting one's head with 
Amg.-Seft, 1952 35 
a hammer. It's such a pleasure when it stops. 
Congratulations and best wishes in your praise­
worthy endeavors for *3I." 
I met BILL COMEFORO, '32, recently and lie 
told me of having seen LARRY MOLLER in 
Quincy. Larry again won the state title for the 
third time in the Illinois State Amateur Golf 
Tournament. Congratulations, Larr\-, your win­
ning enabled me to discard the \'arious news items 
telling of your progress in the playoff. Larr>"'s 
\'ictor>' was all the more impressive since he was 
the second oldest man in the cliampionship fight 
and he said after the matcli that he had serious 
qualms about his abiHt>' to finish the route. He 
dropped his drive at least 30 yards behind Logan's 
on the 410-yard 31st. Then he slapped a beautiful 
approach three feet from the cup for a winning 
birdie, tied Logan on the next two and won with 
a deft pitch and putt on the 34th. The Beauprcs 
had better sharpen up their game. 
BERT MALONEY. cx-Chicagoan now in Texas sent an interesting letter. All those planning on attending the Xotre Dame-Texas game will want to attend the pre-gamc dance and rally at the Driskill Hotel in Austin, October 3rd. He writes: 
"Thank you for your card and your personal good wishes. Let me congratulate you on the ex­cellent coverage in the ALUMNUS covering our class. Your efforts, I know, are appreciated by ever>- member. 
"As you probably know, Dorothy and my family moved with me to Texas some 12 years ago. ^\'c have been in Austin for the last 10 of these years. We have finally reached the stage where we are just plain Yankees down here, and most of the natives have agreed to drop the 'Damn.' (Ed note: Watch your language, son.) I liave my own business, acting as a distributor for Interaational Har\-eslcr Co., in this area. My only claim to fame is that I am one of the lop 'Manure Spreader' Salesmen in the area. Mar>*, my oldest daughter is in col­lege. She is going to St. Tliomas University in Houston. Regina and Sheila arc in high school here in Atistin. Dorothy, my wife, who has been able to put up with me all these years, still rules the Maloney Headquarters. 
"I have been able to keep up with Notre Dame news through the Holy Cross Brolliers and our priests located at St. Edward's Universitv- here in Austin. Other sources of news have been through JIM SWIFT, '24, CONROY SCOGGINS, '24 and JOHN BITTNER. To my knowledge I am the only Notre Dame graduate here in Austin. This brings me up to a point that I would appreciate your handling in your column for me. 
"As you know, Notre Dame will play Texas University at Austin on October 4th. We arc necessarily planning some entertainment for the many guests. The local Knights of Columbus have engaged a big name band and we expect to have a big dance and rally Friday night, October 3rd, at the Driskill Hotel here in Austin. The price will be $3.60 per person. Anyone interested in this shindig can get reservations now by contacting me or Mr. Joe McHale, Knights of Columbus Hall, 108 W. 14th St., Austin, Texas. If vou can get this in the ALUMNUS, it will help. ' 
"I plan to come to Chicago some time in August. If my plans are made possible, I will contact you and the rest of the gang from the Chicago Club for a good old 'gabfest.' Remember me to our mutual friends, Jim, and thanks again for drop­ping me a line. Best personal wishes to you and your family. Keep up the good work." 
I ran into DON MIHAN on the street the other day. He looks well and hasn't changed since his da>-s at ND. Don promised to check the Waukegan contingent of '31 and came through with the following information: 
"The '31ers from Waukegan all still live here in town except BILL REAUME who is associated with the White Motor Company, Cleveland, Ohio. Bill has just moved a few days ago to 20371 S. l.ake Shore BlvS., Euclid 23, Ohio. He is married, has three children and very likely meets many of the ND men during his periodic trips around the country for >Vhite Motors. 
"FRANCIS {Ed—Pamp) FOLEY still has time to play a good game of golf. He is a partner in the Music Mart store and is associated with Qual­ity Tool Works in Waukegan. He is married, has two children and lives at 28 N. West St. 
"JOE KIRBY manages Radio Station WKRS, Waukegan, Illinois, and has developed it into one of the best in this area since his return from the Navy. He is married, has twin daughters, age one, and lives at 1510 Cornelia Avenue. 
36 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
E. M. ROLWING 
E. M. Rolwing, '23, was recendy appointed chairman of the Cairo, 111., Chamber of Commerce Convention Committee. He had an active role in working out the details of the post­master's convention held in Cairo, and his committee will handle future con­ventions in Cairo. 
For the past six years Mr. Rolwing has operated the Rolwing Insurance Agency in that city, after moving it from Thebes, 111., where it was opened by his father over 65 years ago. The firm ofTers every kind of insurance. 
Graduating from Notre Dame with a degree in economics, he joined the Federal Life Insurance Company in Chicago as registrar. In 1931 he be­came manager of mortgage loans and real estate for the Mississippi Valley Insurance Company of St. Louis, and from 1932 until 1938 he was a life insurance and annuity underwriter for the Equitable Life Insurance Society. 
Mr. Rolwing took over the manage­ment of the Rolwing Insurance Agency in 1939, upon the death of his father. 
**Another Navy vet who is now living in Wau­kegan is FRANK BUTORAC, owner-manager of the Dresden Art Products Co. He and his wife Bertie would be glad to see any of their ND friends who are driving between Chicago and Mil­waukee. Their unusual display of Dresden fig­urines, lamps, and other art products is located just a few blocks east of Skokie Highway (US 41), at the comer of Grand Avenue and Green Bay Road. Frank woidd like to hear from or get the address of his old friend, TED T^VOOMEY. 
"I had a pleasant overnight visit a few months ago in Erie at the home of CHARLEY WITT­MANN and his wife, Audrey, who is even more charming than when many of us first met her in '30 and '31 with Charley at some of the campus boiled shirt affairs. The\- have two fine sons. 
Charley is as slender and cheerful as ever and is 
in the fuel business in Erie. 
"Have had a couple of visits lately with BOB 
PENDERGAST who is Chicago Regional Counsel, 
General Services Administration. I am an attor­
ney witli the Veterans Administration, Chicago. 
FRANK DOWNS (Law '31) is also at the VA. 
I was recalled to the Army during the Korean 
Campaign with ED BRTTZ, '32, as my CO. Ed got 
all the way across with the 24th Div., but I slipped 
a disc in the States so wasn't able to go with him 
to Japan. Ed has returned to VA Chicago, where 
he is in Loan Guarantee. I am still single and 
live at 210 N. Utica St., Waukegan, Illinois." 
BOB CUNNINGHAM said he found an old picture of PAT CANNY, SPIKE SULLIVAN, JACK ELDER and himself and was sending it around after a little refurbishing. 
GEORGE COSTELLO telephoned one evening to comment on the '31 column and to bring roe up to date on his family box score. George has two boys and two girls instead of the three I gave him credit for in the last issue. George is pres­ently working in the loop office of the Director of Internal Revenue on the Loop Racket Squad. He was asking about JOHN RADOSOVICH, JOHN WEIBLER and BOB CONNESS. I telephoned JOHN WEIBLER a few days ago. He is Branch Manager of the south side plant of the Dean Milk Co., and extends a welcome to south side ND men to visit their plant. John saw ser\ice as a Navy officer in the Pacific and has been with Dean about three years. He is living in Elmhurst, Illi­nois, with his wife and two children. John com­mented about seeing the picture of GEORGE JACKOBOICE (Grand Rapids bombce) in the last ALUMNUS as it reminded him of the days when they played chess together in the southeast corner room of Morrissey Hall on the second floor. His parents recently celebra'.ed their 52nd wedding anniversary. 
I called PAUL DUNCAN about the ND Club of Chicago Golf party at the Elmhurst C. C , but he couldn't make it due to having to leave town on an early evening train. The following plan on play­ing golf or attending the dinner: GIL SEAMAN, FRANK HOLLAND, PHIL ANGSTEN, JIM DOYLE, BOB RUPPE and BERT METZGER. I hope our active south side alderman, NICHOLAS 
J. BOHLING, will be there. BILL LEAHY can't make it, but reported that WALT CAHILL's wife is doing well after an operation last month. 
While at the barber shop a few weeks ago I saw GENE VALLEE, who is a special agent with the Intelligence Unit of the Internal Revenue office. With GEORGE COSTELLO and Gene, along with other ND men in the Internal Revenue office. we shouldn't have trouble with ta.'c settlements. I met BOB BASKERVILLE at the funeral of his cousin, Rosemary Baskerville, sister of ADRLAN BASKERVILLE, class of '33. Bob looks well but didn't have any special news. FRANK HOLLAND had a visit from' his brother, JERRY HOLLAND, '30, who is president of the Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami. Jerr>- reported well on GEORGE BRAUTIGAM, '29, whom many of us in Chicago remember. AL STEPAN told me about his daugh­ter, Marilee, who broke the 200-yard tree style record in the National AAU meet, and was hoping to make the Olympic team. Since then I have been advised that she made it and the Stepans are in Europe and will be there to cheer her on at Helsinki. Speaking of AL STEPAN who did a beautiful job as president of the ND Club of Chicago, all '31 men can be proud of his business success. A news item recently told of the Conti­nental Oil Co., purchasing the Stepan Chemical Co., plant and equipment at 1353 No. Branch Street, Chicago, for appro.ximately one million dol­lars. Al's firm will continue operation in its new million dollar plant covering ten acres at 3250 
S. Kedzie Avenue. JIM RICH called me for lunch June 27th. He now has three children and is asso­ciated with VERNON KNOX in the practice of law at Cr>-stal Lake. PHIL ANGSTEN is another '31er living there. Their ND Club will hold its golf party at the McHenry County C. C. 
JIM GALLAGHER from Newark, New Jersey, sent the following: "Thanks for your card; it was nice to hear from you. I must first take this opportunity to congratulate you on doing such a good reporting job for the '31ers, aad then express my apprecia­tion for the foUow-up on the fellows whom we have had the PLEASl»E OF SHARING FOUR OF OUR BEST YEARS WITH. It seems to be the only real heart-line. 

"As for myself, there is not much to be said. Prior to entering the Navy in *43 I was with Wright Aeronautical Corp., and since my dis­charge in '46 I have been with the State Depart­ment, Mediation Board. I have a set of twins, boy and girl, age 5, and future candidates for Notre Dame and St. Mary's respectively. It was a real joy to get back to the campus for our 20-year reunion and see all the boys once again. Twenty years have produced many bald heads and expanded many waist lines, but did not change any of the boys otherwise. 
"I must confess I seldom meet up with any of our classmates although I frequently meet Notre Damers. I miss those annual Army-Notrc Dame get-togethers in New York where you could always expect to find BURNS, BARBER, McCULLOUGH, MULVANEY, PERRY, MAHON, REAGAN and CUNNINGHAM. I expect to get out to Notre Dame in 1953 as 1*11 have a nephew entering in September. I shall look forward to saying hello to yourself. GIL SEAMAN, RAY COLLINS, JIM MULVANEY, and others in Chicago. The 25th Reunion is a 'must* on my calendar. 
"I guess this about does it Jim. I hope I have given you the line you expect. Remember me to all the boys. With kind thoughts and best wishes to you and yours always, and a cheer for old Notre Dame, I shall sign off by saying thanks, again, Jim." 
KEN FISHLEIGH, now in St. Paul, brings us up to date: 
"Received your card and I am sorry that I haven't answered before and hope this information will reach you before the deadline. Certainly appreciate and like the revitalized column. Ccrlainly has given a lot of dope about fellow classmates. 
"I have not recently seen any of the boys from our class or classes while wc were in school, but run into sonie of the oldtimcrs and some of the newtimcrs occasionally. I have not religiously attended the Twin City Notre Dame functions but get to them occasionally. The main reason is that I am out of town quite a bit and have guests in town that have to be taken care of on nights when their functions arc scheduled, consequently, do not have any information with regard to local fellow classmates. 
"As for myself, I joined the Seeger Refriger­ator Co., in 1937 as Ass't. Traffic Manager, then became Traffic Manager, Freezer Service Manager and now Division Sales Manager in charge of the Sears, Roebuck and Admiral accounts. We build refrigerators and freezers for Sears, Admiral, Mont­gomerj* Ward, and have a branch in Evansville, Indiana, as well as St. Paul. My family is fine: I have two sons and a daughter. Charles is the oldest, being 11, Gregory next, 6^4, and Barbara 5. 
"Have not run into BILL CLEARY for some time. Saw him when I first came to the Twin Cities, which was quite some time ago, but inas­much as I now have his address, will make it a point to get in touch with him. I live in Minne­apolis, but work in St. Paul. 
"I wish I could give you more dope about some of the fellows around here, but just can't. I sincerely hope this information will suffice to obtain forgiveness for getting ink all over your corduroys during our exam in LEE FLATLEY*s Finance course. How well I remember him and his exams. I have not been back to the campus for some time, although I have been in and around South Bend quite a bit. As Sears' main buying offices are in Chicago, I get down there quite a bit and will get in touch with you sometime in the .future. If you get to the Twin Cities be sure to look me up." 
TOM KASSIS of Casper, Wyoming, recently lost his mother. For the class, I extend our s>-mpathy to Tom in his loss. 
JOHN HICKEY sends the following letter: 
"While listening to the Republican Convention, I was fumbling with your card asking for informa­tion about *31 Pittsburghers. When it was ap­parent that Five-Star Dewey was going to be nomi­nated, I decided I had better "dewcy" something with your card. 
"From where I am looking right now at the next street canyon, I see CHARLIE SPINELLI who is in the throes of trying to locate heirs to a three million dollar estate. The prospect is pleasant enough and I'm certain that when he succeeds the Alumni Secretary could put the bite on him for a sizeable contribution. 
"Occasionally I run into DICK O'DONNELL who is in the Public Relations game vnth a firm which starts out with the siagular first name 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
REV. JAMES P. DOLL 

Rev. James P. Doll, C.S.C, '42, re­cently became the first student in the history of the University of California to deliver the invocation and benedic­tion at the University's annual Char­ter Day exercises. 
Father Doll, now studying for his doctorate in bacteriology, plans to con­tinue a teaching and research career at Notre Dame when he finishes study on the Berkeley campus. He hopes to work at LOBUND, Notre Dame's germ-free life laboratory. He is doing similar work at the University of Cali­fornia. 
Ordained in 1946, the 33-year-old priest studied at the Catholic Univer­sity of America also, and is now in residence at St. Anthony's Church, Oakland, Calif. And incidentally. Father Doll is the Notre Dame Club of Southern California's Man of the Year for 1952. 
"Ketchum." The rest of it is incidental. I think the first name explains everything. 
"JOE O'ROURKE, formerly of Pittsburgh, is now in Harrisburg. The last word we had from him is that he had returned from Haiti where he spent several wccls investigating calypso music 
"TEX BRIEGER, who is practically a native son of Pittsburgh despite his birth in Tyler, TeMS, is now President of the Notre Dame Club, which probably proves that those Texans will run for most anything. 
"As for myself, I recall belonging to a club at Notre Dame called the 'Spectators.' I haven't changed a bit. The only difference is that you spell spectator with a small *s.' 
"Many thanks for your nice card. I was away when it arrived so this letter will probably reach you too late for this issue, but since there is nothing much important in it, nothing will be lost. 
"I guess I can cover the main facts siace graduation in 1931 without a lot of detail. For 3 vears, '31 to '34, I worked on an arson scpiad investigating and prosecuting arsonists and there were plenty of them in the dcpressioa years. During that time I made up my mind to engage in the insurance adjustment bnsiness so I went to th Univ. of Oklahoma in 1934 and '33 to get the legal education I needed for this work. Since 1935 I have been in the insurance adjustment business except for three years in the Navy, moat of which was spent as Officer in Charge, Instru­ment Division NATTC, Chicago, IIL So you mi^ t say I am an 'Okie* by way of South Bend and Chicago. 
"I have been married since 1933 and we have had two boys and a girl; the youngest is 9, and he is quite a ball player and it looks like he should be ready for Notre Dame before many more seasons. There are no other '31ers in this city, but we do have an active Notre Dame Club going now, thanks to BOB McFARLAND, '42. We are looking fonvard to the Oklahoma U.-ND series, and we all hope to come up for the first game at South Bend this fall. This Oklahoma team plays a fine game of football, they have a spec­tacular offense, and Wilkinson is a coach in the Rockne tradition of fair play. 
"ARCHBISHOP O'HARA, '11, was here for Universal Notre Dame night. It was wonderful to see him again. He is just the same, fighting for what is good and against what is bad. In men like him lies the hope of this world. 
"Nothing much else, Jim. I do help the kids with Junior "Y" baseball which is a big and fine training program for youngsters in this area. And I have served as President of the Association of Independent Insurance Adjusters of Oklahoma. At present I am the President of the Oklahoma Divi­sion of Blue Goose, International, which is an organization of state managers for Fire Insurance Companies. We all help in the parish church and with the Catholic Charities. We have a catastrophe crew of 13 adjusters who assist in any catastrophe area in the United States, so we get around when the hurricanes, explosions and hailstorms strike. The trouble is we are so darned busy 1 never get to look up the Notre Dame men in the area. 
"Although we are a long way from South Bend, it seems Notre Dame is always close to those who love her. You are doing a fine job for our class. I sure would like to hear from my old roomie, JOE MEIT2XER." 
I called FRANK CHAMBERS who is manager of Production Control for Electromotive Corp., at LaGrange, lU. Frank has a boy V/,, a girl 2'/,, and a girl 9. The baby boy and girl explain why Frank doesn't have much time for outside activi­ties. He mentioned that BOB BAER is moving into a new home in LaGrange. Wonder what happened to their campus buddy, BOB SMITH? I called DAN EGAN, Personnel Director for the State of Illinois Highway Dept., and he mentioned that ART McMANHON telephones when in Chi­cago. Art, you are a fine guy not calling your class secretary when in town after your promises to help. Remember our conversation during the Alumni banquet at the '51 Reunion? 
FRANCIS HENNEBERGER sent an announce­ment of the Summer Round-up of the Tri-State Notre Dame Club to be held at the Princeton, Indiana C. C. I had hoped to make it this year but the notice didn't arrive till a few days before the party. Heime, where are those pictures and notes you were going to send me? 
I talked to BERNIE McGLONE and he told me of DAN CASEY, '33, being in charge of construc­tion at the Argonne Atomic Energy plant south­west of Chicago. (Correction on ART McMAN-MON, he caUed BILL LEAHY and not DAN EGAN. I'd better get a second desk to spread out my notes.) Does anyone know if RALPH DALTON has returned from liis second hitch in the Navy? I enjoyed seeing PIERRE ANGERMEIER's picture in the last ALUMNUS and would like to have a letter from him for the next issue. BERT METZGER's son, Bert, Jr., is a freshman at ND and a member of the Navy ROTC imit which is currently on a cruise in the eastern Atlantic. 
Seen at the ND Club of Chic^o golf Tourna­
ment at the Ehnhurst, C. C. July 21st were PHIL 
ANGSTEN, NICK BOHLING, HOWARD BEES­
LEY, TOM CUNNINGHAM, '30, JIM DOYLE, 
PRANK HOLLAND, FRANK LEAHY, BERT 
HETZGER, EDDIE RYAN, BOB RUFFE, GIL 
SEABfAN and RAY SULLIVAN. NED KELLEY, 
campns pal of BILL BURGHART, '32, vras there ' also. I hope all '3lers will enjoy a pleasant and carc­
Aug.Sept., 1952 37 

^m 
Class of '27 at the silver jubilee. 

Reunions 
More *17 men relax during the Reunion Weekend in June. 
free summer vacation and that IIIL* above news will tend to move some of us off dead center or to take the arthritis cure and get letters to me for tlic next issue. When any of you are in Cliicago please telephone mc at RAndolpIi 6-3709. 
D.VNIEL D. HALPIN, »31. has been appointed general sales manager for the receiver division of DuMont Laboratories, Inc., New York. He was formerly manager of television receiver sales for RCA Victor. 
1932 
Jim Collins, Sccrctar>­17 Triangle Avenue Dayton 9, Ohio 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

JOHN AIENER, GEORGE AREHART, HUGH BALL, HARRY BEHRMAN, PAUL BELDON, DR. LLOYD BELLAMY, JOHN BOGNAR, BER­NIE BRESSON, JOE BITTORF, LEONARD BLO­MAERT, ALBERT BRASSEUR, REV. VINCENT BRENNAN, HARRY BURGER, RICHARD CAN­NON, ED CAREY, JOE CAREY, DAN &\SSIDY, ROY CATIZONE, JIM COLLINS, JOHN COL­LINS, GENE CONNELLY, JOE COOKE, JOHN COX, NORBERT CROWT, REGIS CUHN, DR. PAUL DAILEY, TERRY DILLON, MARTIN DO­LAN, VINCE DONOHUE, JOE DORGAN, CHARLIE DORR, JIM DUBBS, TOM DUFFEY, JOE DUNN, LEONARD DtTON, FRANK ERNST, DICK FABRYCKI, TOM FEELY, BILL FREID­HOFF, H. J. GAJKOH'SKI, JACK GEDDES, RAY GEIGER, HERBERT GIORGIO, ANTHONY GIUFFRE, JOE GONCIARZ, EMMETT GOR­MAN, BOB GORMAN, BILL GOSSLIN, BILL HARRINGTON, GEORGE HENNION, BOB HtT-GER, CHARLES HITZELBERGER, LEO HODEL, PAUL HOWE, VERNE HUBER, JIM IGOE, EMIL JANC, WILLIAM JONES, ED KELLY, JOE KENNY, HARRY KILBURGER, WALT KIOLBASA, DON KILLIAN, BILL KIRBY, GERRY KLEIN, EDWIN KOLSKI, ED KOONTZ, TED KREMER, REGIS KUHN, JOHN LAUGH­NA, RUSSELL LAWLER, BOB LEE, JIM LEWIS, JOHN LITCHER, JOE McCABE, FLO MCCAR­THY, PAUL McCONNELL, LEO McLAUGHLIN, DON McMANUS, TOM MAGEE, DAN MALOY, FRANK MARLEY, BEN MIKES, FRANK MILLER, HOWARD MILLER, W. A. MORTEN­SEN, JOHN MULHERN, W. F. MULLEN, JOHN 
H. MURPHY, JOHN J. MURPHY, FRANK MURRAY, JOE MURRAY, LEO NEWMAN, FRANK NORTON, DICK OELERICH, FR,\N OELERICH, BARRY O'KEEFE, VINCE O'NEIL, COLMAN O'SHAUGHNESSY, PAUL OTOOLE, POWER, KELLY POWERS, OLIVER POWERS, CLIFF PRODEHL, ED RHATIGAN, LOUIS ROHLOF, C. L. ROSSITER, JOHN RUDD, COR­NELIUS RUFFING, JOHN S&\NL.VN, LEO SCHIAVONE, J. W. SIMMONS, BILL SL.\DER, DR. PAUL SMITH, FRED SNITE, JOHN STAUNTON, BOB STREB, DON SULLIVAN, DR. WALTER SULLIVAN, WALTER TERRY, FRANCIS TOMASI, G. W. VANDER VENNET, BILL VAN ROOY, JOE VASSALLO, BILL WALZ, JIM WARD, ALBERT WATERS, BOB WATERSON, A. B. WHITE, ARNOLD WIENER, JOE WILLIS AND JOHN WITTLIFF. 
Our Twentieth Reunion was a magnificent suc­cess from ever>' standpoint, and a big hand should go to CLIFF PRODEHL and his assistants (if he had any) for the way it was handled. More than 150 class members were on hand, and the opinions expressed then and since arc that it could not 
have been improved upon. 
HERB GIORGIO, class president, and Cliff left nothing to chance to make it an enjoyable week­end. Their months of work was apparent from the smooth handling of the entire reunion. A fiUI share of credit should go, also, to MIKE MOORE and LEO NEWMAN, who very capably coordinated last-minute details on the local level in South Bend. 
A lot of credit must go to JOHNN'Y PERONE 
who put on an almost continuous 72-hour show that defies description. He has lost none of the touch that made him a natural born entertainer. He even drew the crowds away from the other class reunions. 
This was the first time back for many, and it was good to see them. Masses were said each morning in Morrissey Chapel by FATHER HARRY STEGMAN and FATHER FRANK GARTLAND for the deceased members of the class. 
RAY GEIGER reported early and his letter said in part: 
*'I guess, like all the rest of the fellow*s who came back to the Reunion, I had a wonderful time and ever>*body knew it. Certainly, I am looking: for^vard to the 25th Reunion and 1 am spreading the word around among those that did not attend. 
"I saw JOE PETRTTZ in Chicago right after the Reunion and he was vcr^' sorry that his race track duties in publicity fashion kept him from getting back. Later on in the week when I took a plane back from Chicago, I ran into JIM WAR­DELL, who used to live in Mount Vernon, New-York, in the old days and now is a division man­ager for American Can Company in Chicago, Illinois. Jim has not changed much—looks a lot like JACK CARSON antl said that he had planned to get down but I guess he just finished moving his family up from Kansas City and this took some of his weekend time. 
"I don't know whether I told you that JAMES WALDER in Cairo, Illinois, had been seriously ill with tuberculosis for the past year and while I don't hear from him regularly, I know his case has been somewhat arrested but he is still - on the rather serious list. I know he would appreciate letters from any of his frientis and they could be sent to his father's store at 805 Commercial Avenue, Cairo, Illinois. 
"I will try to keep you informed a little more of the ND men that I run into in my travels and perhaps we can make your job just a little bit easier in the future." 
Herb appointed FATHER DOREMUS as Hon­orar>' Chaplain and his letter ot tkaniis is as follows: 
"As the youngest member of the *32 Class, I 
JOHN PERONE, CHUCK PETRETIC, BILL 
The class of '27 talks over twenty-five years. 
Aug.-Sept., 1952 

wish to thank you for your kindness in admitting me as a member of the 1932 Class. 
"Your class can be justly proud of counting at least 5 priests among its members. I was priv­ileged to have many of the members of this class in 1928 in Howard Hall and in 1932 quite a few of them were with mc in good old Sorin HalL It is with this class that I have been most closely associated and I have followed some of them through life, officiating at some of their marriages and baptizing some of their children. 
"Your 20th reunion was vcr>' fine and well planned; those who had anything to do with the reunion or with the banquet ought to be con­gratulated. You, yourself, as president of that Class and as toastmaster at the banquet did acquit yourself very honorably. I was sorr>-I could not stay at the banquet until the end; but I had been told to be on the lookout for the oldest returning Alumnus, an elderly man of 86 and still president of a bank that bears his name in Lansing, Iowa. 
"TTianking you for your kindness and for the honor of asking me to give the invocation. I hope that in 1957 I shall still be here to join the '32 Class in the celebration of the 25th Anniversar>-." 
MOON MULLEN came up with an excellent offer to assemble all the motion pictures taken during the reunion for showing at later reunions. His letter to Herb is: 
**Thanks a lot for your letter of June 18ih. I regret the delay in answering it. 
"I certainly feel that you are on the right track in starting now to interest those who could not make the 20th reunion, to make certain they arc there for the 2oth. If we can get across to them even a small part of the fun we had, I feel certain all would be on hand in *57. I personally felt after only a few hours that we had all been axvay from the campus for only a short time—not 20 years. 
"Cliff Certainly did a wonderful job of organizing and I know he had plenty of help from you and Gene and the rest of the gang. Also, whoever made certain JOHNNY PERRONE was there, really clinched a wonderful time. He was a howl! 
"Have no siill pictures of the reunion but have about 100 feet of 16 mm color and thought tliat if the other fellows who took this same t>'pe of film were interested, we could assemble and title them and show the composite morie in '57. I'd be glad to do the work if they want to send me the film. 
" I seem to have misplaced my class list of current addresses. Can you see that I get another, so I can begin now to go to work on some of the other boys? 
"Am writing Jim as you suggested. Keep in touch." 
PETE STREB wrote that the reunion was a tonic and that his happiest moments there was seeing and conversing with FRED SNITE who came in his boiler. 
Besides those listed above, BERNIE HEITZ dropped in Sunday morning after returning from his mother's funeral. She died June 1. 
All tlie class officers were re-elected by acclama­tion, and CLIFF PRODEHL was unanimously chosen to chairman all future reunions. 
Hundreds of letters and cards were sent in after ClifTs broadside was mailed, and the following is from them. 
JACK LAMBERT'S new address is 333 Colonial Ave., Worthingion, Ohio. He said that ED ROCHE, who was in our class for two years, lives at 468 Loverman, Worthington. 
BUTCH DcVAULT is in Industrial Relations work with the Muncic Gear Works and missed the reunion because of negotiating a union contract. 
JOE PETRITZ had good intentions of attending but did not make it. He wrote to Cliff a short time previously as follows: 
"Here's the buck, which Vm sending instead of me. Have the Lincoln Fields account, which means working right through until Saturday night, but will come down for a few hours if at all possible. 
*'Onc fellow I didn't notice listed was JOHN T. LaFORGE, JR., who dropped out after two years. Anyhow, he was killed in an auto accident ifon­day. Please include his name with the Mass offer­ing for the 8th, if such names are made specific. 
"Have a call in to JIM CARMODY's wife, Rita Fitzpatrick of the Tribune, and will append his address if possible. 
"You're really organizing things, and I think 

40 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Grads of 1927 take time out from the busy weekend. 
you'll have a wonderful turnout. Certainly hope so. "Glad to sec BOB CAHILL, '34, isn't listed as a classmate of ours—that chiscler has been attend­ing reunions for '32, '33, and '34 for as long as I can remember and unless you bolt the doors, he'll be there with his corny gags. Please convey this message, if you sec him!" We were extremely sorry that BISHOP LORAS LANE was unable to attend. Since he is the only alumnus who is a Bishop outside of the Order we arc especially proud of him. FATHER PAUL HALLINAN ^^•rote that a Board meeting of the CYO kept him from attend­ing. FATHER MICHAEL J. GAVIN sent his blessings and regrets from the University- of Port­land, and said he envied all who could assemble to compare experiences, blessings and double chins. 
Many others \\Tote that they could not attend— if any of them want their alibis published just drop me a line. 
One sad bit of news was conve>'ed by' PAUL HOWE who said that JACK JORD.\N died a few weeks ago. 
To repeat, it was a grand reunion, and we can all look forward to a better one for the 25th in 1957. 
B. P. Mast, Sr., Chairman of the Board, Con-over-Mast Publications, Inc., New York and Chi­cago, announces the appointment of RICHARD T. RONEY as assistant publisher of the Conover-Mast Purcliasing Direclor\*. 
20 YEAR REUNION 
JUNE 12-13-14 

Joseph D. KfcCabc, Scc>-. 632 Forest Ave. 
River Forest, 111. 
REUNION REGISTRANT MURRAY BOOTH 

WILLIAKf K. HANIFIN, a general merchandise wholesaler of Honolulu, Hawaii, was a visitor in the Alumni Office at Notre Dame recently. The Class of *33 wishes to offer sincere sympathy to Bill on the recent death of his wife. 
>VILLIAM,H. CLUNE, '33, is plant manager for Best Foods, Inc., Bayonne, New Jersey. 
JOHN H. McNAMARA, '33, was recently ap­pointed principal of Washington High School in South Bend. For the jiast three years he had ser\'ed as director of publications for the South Bend cit>- schools. 
The '37 men got together over a buffet supper. 
1934 
Edivard F. Mansfield, SCQ*. 6375 N. Glenwood, Apt. 1 Chicago, 111. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS DICK GILLEN, BOB KELLEY, JOHN O'CONNOR AND EH SHAHEEN. "DUTY WELL DONE" (A Priest of Holy Cross compiles the constructive record of four Notre Dame medics—a "rank and file" tribute to the moral, responsible leadership of Notre Dame alumni.—^JEA) Twenty-two years ago, four young men, coming from four different states in the union matricu­lated at Notre Dame under Father Francis Wen­ninger then dean of the college of science; they wanted to be doctors. One of them w*hcn being asked recently a few facts about himself replied: "There is nothing outstanding about us, except that wc got through Notre Dame and through medical school without flunking; a thing w*hich I felt was due chiefly to Father Wenninger's good preparation, very attentive guardian angels and the protection of the Blessed Virgin. "When Uncle Sam sent a call for doctors, we answered the call to duty and ser\'ed in the Army; Doctor Gannon, who had selected the Nav\' as his career, ser\'ed in the Na w and is now Commander Hcnr>- T. Gannon, while we other three arc following the practice of medi­cine.** Theodore S. Gabrcski, the brother of Col. Francis P. Gabreski, the distinguished flyer of the second world war, who is still making a name for himself in Korea, came from Oil City, Pa. He lived the life of the ordinary* student; in his senior year he and Gannon served as sacristans to Father O'Hara, now Arclibishop of Philadelphia. Doctor Gabreski attended the in­stallation and writes: "I was sure glad to sec that and to think that I ser\'ed Mass for him and laid out his vestments.** From Notre Dame Gabreski went to Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia from whicli he came with his M.D. in 1938. He 5er\*cd his internship in St. Vin­cent Hospital, Eric, Pa., after which he started his general practice in medicine in Oil City in 1&40. He was married at Notre Dame by Father Doremus. Being in the reser\'c he was called to active duty at the beginning of the war as first lieutenant going first to Camp Shelby, Mississippi, then to the ofhcers medical school, and in 1942 as captain he left with the 159.h 
station hospital for China, Burma and India. In 1943 he was promoted base surgeon for Eastern India. Back in the States in 1945, he was sent to Fort Bragg, N. C, in charge of the out­patient depot for officers and their dependents. The same year he ^vas discharged and later was promoted to Lt. Colonel in the Medical Reserve Corps. He then took some work in medicine in Chicago at Billings Hospital, and in New York at the Medical College, after which he returned to medical practice in Oil City. Doctor Gabreski is the father of five children. 
Henry T. Gannon came to Notre Dame from Coming, New York; his brother. Father L. W. Gannon is the Pastor of St. Mary*s church, Hornell, N. Y. After his graduation from Notre Dame in 1934, Henry was slated to go to a medical school in the East, but he preferred to follow his friends to St. Louis. Commencement Sunday, the two brothers were in the Sorin Chapel where Henry was sacristan: Father L. W. Gannon was saying the Mass and Henry serving it; it was the first time that this had happened. 
In St. Louis, Gannon, Afurphy and Nachtwey lived together, helping each other in many ways; in the senior year he was president of the class and elected member of the Alpha Omega Alpha. In 1938, the young doctor who had taken Social Science together with medicine. Interned in St. Louis University group of hospitals, then in EI­mira, N. Y. July 25, 1940 he married Miss Dorothy M. Blum w*hom he had met when Miss Blum was studying medical technology* at St. Louis. The ceremony took place at Champaign, 111., Father L. W. Gannon officiating; 
Dr. Gannon selected the Navy as his field of action; he was commissioned Lt. J.G. in the Medical Corps, U.S.N., on duty at the Na\*al Station, Newport, R. I. From 1940 to 1942, Lt. H. T. Gannon was on duty U.S.S. Harr>' Lee, in connection with the training of amphib­ious assault troops. From there he went to the Norfolk Naval Hospital, then for two years on duty Na\-al Pre-Flight School, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, where several ND men were stationed, among them Don Elser and Tom Gorman. Tom was young Stephen Gannon's godfather. He was on duty U.S.S. Houston for 10 months in Euro­pean waters. He visited the Scandinavian coun­tries, then England, Scotland, Germany, Belgium, Holland, France, Portugal, Italy and Eg>'pt. Back in the States, he was five months on duty at the 
U. S. Naval Hospital St. Albans, N. Y.; August 1947-June 1948 was a student at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Washington, D. C , then Medical advisor, Afunltion Board, Wash­ington, D. C ; now comdr. H. T. Gannon is teaching at the U. S. Naval War College, New­port, R. L; Comdr. and Mrs. Gannon have three children: Stephen, Henry and Beverly. 
James P. Murphy left Notre Dame with his bachelor degree in science and went back to his home town, St. Louis, and became a doctor in 1938. He interned for two years in the City Hospital as required for specialization. He vol­unteered in the Army in July, 1941, and after a short stay in the States, left with the 37tli. Infantry division of Ohio, as batallion stu^eon. He trained In the Fiji Islands, went to Guadal­canal, New Georgia, Bougainville, then came back to the States in 1944 and a few months later left again, this time for Europe. He saw a good deal of France, Belgium and Germany and after the end of the hostilities returned home for sep­aration from the Army. Doctor James P. Mur­phy is now- practicing in St. Louis, associated with another Notre Dame man. Dr. Daniel L. Sexton, both speaallsts in internal medicine. He is also teaching at St. Louis University in the Afcdical department. Dr. Murphy married Mary 
K. Deck In 1948 and has two daughters and a son. 
Robert A. Nachtwey came to Notre Dame from Lansing, Iowa, a picturesque little town on the banks of the Mississippi. The fact that Bob's father was the town druggbt, might have influ­enced the son to select medicine for his pro­fession. With Gannon and Alurphy he went to St. Louis University. He had to interrupt his studies on account of his father's illness. In 1940 Dr. Nachtwey interned for two years In the City hospital of St. Louis. Two years later, in April, we find him In T=.xas, at Camp Barkley, with the 90th Infantry division. He went to England and on D-Day crossed the English Channel with the Americans liberating France. After the war, Alajor Nachtwey came back home, and on De­cember 29, 1945, he married Miss Mary Kemdt of Lansing, Iowa. The ceremony took place at Notre Dame, the cousin of the bride. Father Kemdt M. Hcaly, C.S.C, officiating. 
From 1946 to 1950 Dr. Nachtwey had a fellow­ship at the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn. Now he is practicing medicine in Springfield, Illinois. Dr. and Afrs. Nachtwey have three children, two boys and a girl. 
All four of these *38 medics came bade from the service with decorations but no wounds; they give full credit to the one whose sta.ue Is on top of the Dome. "So far," says one of them. 
Among the alumnr, wives and guests of the South Bend members of the Class of '38 who held a dinner this June were: I^uis Anderson, 
Charles Borowski, Ed Hoger, Jack Moulder, Dr. Bryan, Jake Burke, Dan Fisher, Charles Duke, Charles Sweeney, Jhn Leahy, Charles 
Calahan, Nelson Vogel, Burnett Bauer, John Murphy, John Plouff, and Ed Cronin. 
TRUE! 

The Class of '42 was much in evidence at the reunion. 
'Svc have had a bus>* and vcr>- satisfying life, and Iccl that God has been c.\tremcly good to tis." 
Capt. ROBERT H. HALPIN, USAF, is scrying 
on the Yale faculty (only ND representative, he 
sa>-s) as Assistant Professor of Air Science and 
Tactics. 
JOHN F. PAVLICK, '34, recently lost his 
fatJicr, who died the latter part of May­
'Tliirty-four people who take time to wxite tlicse 
^usy days get lop billing any time in this report. 
All THREE contributors (three of almost 600, you 
Tjrokcn-wrist, out-of-ink, too-busy delinquents) arc 
repeaters, so you can sec writing to the secretary 
ain^t catcliin'. 
Swiped material from dailies and columns, corner 
intelligence from Chicagoland, and smuggled stories 
from GHQ at Notre Dame will be here, too. 
Postcards published here would bring more pleas­'ure to your scattered friends than you realize. 
SEINE TO SOUTHSIDE 
No. 1 letter is from that returned Parisian, 
JIM FIT2PATRICK, who called at 6573 Glenwood, 
missed tlic hired hand, and wrote: 
"I*ve forsaken the distractions of Paris for the -cloistered halls of the University of Chicago for JL master's in the graduate library school. 
"I could have stayed in Paris in straight admin­istrative work, but I didn't want to wander too far from the world of books. As a civilian, I was •overseas four years, three months—the last two years and eight months with the Marshall Plan. After a master's, mayhaps a doctorate, I'd like to !faead right back again." (Want to see you, Jim). 
HAGAN RIDES AGAIN That man of steel with copper hair, JOHN R. (RUSTLESS) HAGAN, now looks out on Utah's "Wasatch Range instead of the stacks of Youngs­town. Jack speaks: 
*'I work for a steel fabricating firm called Com­nnercial Shearing and Stamping (could be sheep), and wc built a new plant in Salt Lake City. This -winter brought too much snow, but natives with 
•early training in California say it's unusual. 
"Travel has been substantially reduced, for whidi I'm thankful^ but I still go through Chicago once 4n a ^vhile. You've been out the last two times I've called (My travel hasn't been similarly reduced, Kcd). 
**Thcrc aren't very many Notre Dame gentlemen Sierc. I spend lots of time with Phil Purcell, '35, 
and have met Jim Durbin and Msgr. Maguire, 
who took graduate work here. lie's pastor of our 
parish. Our Lady of Lourdes. 
AV.ATERBOY "Say hello to Rita, and tell her I remember the Thomas Collins (or juleps?) in the southern resort in the Slevcns. I've been a *soft' advocate so long now that I don't know the difl'crence (Osborne, Nar\', Carr, please note—Sec). 
"Marie and Patricia are fine, but I suspect that Marie thinks these delightful mountains arc prison walls. She liked that dirly old Youngstown. So did I."—JACK HAGAN, 1930 Sheridan Road, 
S. L. C. 
As an old Dcnveritc, Jack, know ye this: those blue and white mountains keep you looking for them if you ever leave. 
THE QUILL OF QUINN CHUCK QUINN, another who should wear the good conduct ribbon for writing, says from Defray i Beach, Florida: "I think BOB CHENAL forgot to mention that we met in clmrcli during his la'.t visit south. '•*Later, he came down with his lovely wife and daughter. My family spent the winter here (three of my five children at Sacred Heart), while I commuted by air to Long Island. ^'I shall be glad to get home to L. I. \ia ND and Fort Wayne at the end of this month when school is out. '*My vcr>' best appreciation for your wonderful reports (adv.). Say *helIo' to VINCE FEHLIG. If Crown Zcllerbach ever sends you south, wc hope you'll stop by."—Charley Quinn. 
DEEP FREEZE TO D^'NAFLOW Chuck adds a card with the announcement that "JACK ROBINSON left his frozen food business for the more lucrative GM product, the Buick." He's with DufTey Buick of 57 Nassau, Brooklyn. Rangy John J. uill make a million if he's only half as good on the salesroom floor as he was on the stadium turf. Real guy. 
THE FIDLER FELLO\V 
Jimmy Fidler of Hollywood isn't a classmate, but his recent column about one will focus a picture of a fine-lookin', gallant back ready for 60 min­utes for the '33 team that tried so valiantly. 
Fidler was asked why Bob Waterfield's talked-of film career didn't come ofT, and he disclaimed knowledge of exact reasons, but presumed that "the case of Nick Lukats, ND's Ail-American half­back of 20 years ago, is typical." 
"Nick," Fidler saj-s, "had just about everything that a potential star needs for screen success. He was remarkably handsome, had a fine personality, possessed unusual intelligence, and on the few 
. occasions he was given an opportunity, displayed 
considerable acting ability. "But he was too well known! "From ofHcc boy to front office mogul, Holl>-\vood 
is football-mad. No matter how hard Nick tried to put his gridiron fame behind him and be recognized as an actor, no one in the studios seemed able to think of him as anything but an All-American halfback. . . . He was smothered under the tide of hcfo-u'orship .. . of an unprofitable kind. 
"Waterfield . . . may have met the same hazards." 
Nick, as you've read from this columnist who works for a little less than Fidler, is a sales executive for Noma in New Jersey. Fidler's de­scription of talented Nick is not overdrawn, you'll 
BUFFALO COURIER-EXPRESS 
A sports column here said "Jimmy Dunnigan passed up an in\itation from Bill Corum to wit­ness the Derby in favor of a family auto trip to Washington during the cherry blossom festival." 
Can that be our own speed-skating, Irish-grinning James Dunnigan, printer's devil of Doctor Cooney's classes? 
SPORTING NEWS 
One quick gander at a S-porting News photo brought visions of a Farley-Kennedy presidential pairing, but the cut-line showed that our own Walter and Coca-Cola's James were meeting in Trenton with baseball people to boost 13-15 year Little-Bigger baseball. 
CHICAGO ^TRIBUNE 
Mr. Ward's sports section said that AL McGUFF, at Weber and St. McI's in Chicago for 18 years, is now assistant frosh coacit for the autumn enemy, Purdue. He will put the major portion of the year on his paper business. 
AP ^VIREPHOTO 
Dr. Thaddeus Gabrcski has been too busy mov­ing to 528 W. 3rd in Oil City, Pa., to write you all, but wc have shared his pride in the headline exploits of his brother and our brother alumnus, COL. FRANCIS GABRESKI, 40-plane ace of World War II and Korea. He's rumored to be the main event guy in a Holl>-wood film about his life and the air force story. 
CHICAGO DAILY NEWS 
TV Critic Jack Mablcy said this about a smiling man who livened up many a bankrupt Saturday night for Howard hall's top floor: 
"At the conclusion of the new WBKB show. Farm Town, U.S.A., Saturday evening. George Menard recited the names of Chicago's TV critics. He said if any of them cared to review the show, he would be pleased. 
"This is typical of the straightforward approach of this farm show. 
"It fits into that rare category- of a construc­tive program in good evening lieuing time. Menard is ideal as master of ceremonies. (Litty, O'Connor, O'Toole, Winter, Cacciatore, Caulfield, Niedzclski, Blish, Locher, real creators of this ideal m.c. through their tutelage in Howard, take a mass bow.—cfm). 
"He has an air of friendly rusticity (ali. Ser­geant's Bluff, Iowa.—cfm) that you find frequently on farms, but rarely in TV studios." 
Nice work, George—and Martlia. 
TONY WEITZEL 
This Chicago Daily News columnist exposed Large EDWARD KRAUSE, ex-earthquake maker of Sorin, as a Softball strike-out victim in a Back of the Yards charity game in Chicago. Radio, TV, press, sports, clerical, and business leaders fought like ooit-of-shapc tigers, and Tony says Moose's strikeout lost for his team, 19 to 121 
DAILY NEWS AGAIN 
DR. GEORGE BLAHA was identified as assist­ant medical director of enormous County hospital in Chicago, hugi; medical center with some 2,500­3,000 employes. 
HEY, MAJOR, GET ON THE BALL! 
Never did get the pleasure of yelling that in those 49 months in Pentagon pantaloons, so it's a dee-light now to shout at MAJOR BOB McDON-OUGH, 0-43591, now at Box 553 in Richmond, Ky. In again. Bob, or still? Like Kaintuck, or Jersey? Please transmit ihc quotable parts of 

your 201 file for the lads who like your nc;^ issue, Robair. HOME AGAIN 
VINCE McALOON, reported by hearsay in va­rious world comers, is rumored to be at 515 Dun­bar, Cumberland. Mr. Vince, >'OuVc another of those globetrottin' guys who could really tell a tale. How about it? 
THREE-SCHOOL MAN 

GEORGE BRUNO, the cx-lineroan now leaching in St. Louis, must be trying to get tickets from the coast, the Ivy league, AND Cahill's Cardboard Counter. A fine ND man, he just moved from Stanford avenue to 700 Yale in University City. 
How multi-loyal can you get? LOST HORIZON Alumn! GHQ claims it can't find as large a party as genial JOHN DUMPERT. Last known bivouac for Private Duropert was 66 Beech St., Arlington, N. J- Look for tracks of the Jersey giant; they'll show in the pavement. Notify ND mail room where they lead. CANADIAN COMMUTER If they ever iron-curtain Canada, Charlie Cash-man will buy a blowtorch. He's back there again on mining business, this time with Fcnimore Iron Mines, Suite 207, Adelaide St., East, Toronto. THREE WISE MEN If we had a class dog, he'd do some welcome waggin' for these astute gentlemen who have applied for and received membership in the class by approval of the alumni board: 
O. D. HERRON, 3900 Outer Drive, Detroit. 
T. J. HIEGEL, 527 First, Conway, Ark. THOMAS M. IGEL, 2668 Ber^v-yn Rr., Colum­bus, O. How about letters, men? imiON NEWS Brother JOE McCABE, '33, fellow CIO and AFL member (Correspondence Invited Openly and Awfully Few Letters) handles publicity for '33, for Chicago ND dub, and now is with Newey and Conway, public relations, 231 S. LaSalle. That puts Kearns, Petritz, McCabe all in the field in Chicago. 
"OUR NEXT SPEAKER . . ." JIM KEARNS was a welcome sight as a deft 
m.c for the Chicago club's Universal ND night dinner at the Drake. Jack Lacey was among those spotlighted for a bow. 
UNGENTLE READER 

At the Chicago club's best ND golf outing in history, the Elmhurst Country Club's over-21 room displayed our own MAURICE CURRAN. Away in the background were AL McGUFF, BOB CA­HILL, the MOOSE, KITTY GORMAN, and other fugitives from Sorin's stoop. Red delayed old-times talk with them to comer your unpaid servant like this: 
Crewcut Curran: "Wottinell happened to your '34 column last time? Ya loafin' on the job? We'll impeach!" 
Cowed Secretary: "Well, uh. Red, if you guys'd write just a few . . ." 
C. C : "WRITE? That's YOUR job, Mac! We like to read the stulT, but YOU write it, SEE! (Curran forefinger quivering against scrivener's breastbone). 
C. S.: "Yessir." (Instant correct retort. That old army training.) 
(Seriously, it was good to see Red. Roofing contractor. Fine family of four. After SYz months in a hospital, he has a good lecture on overwork and lack of rest for all of us.) 
DODGE PUTS ON AYRES 

BILL AYRES has shifted his thinking gears from Studehaker to Dodge. He left South Bend to work for the agency handling the Dodge ac­count in Detroit. Good man. Good luck. 
ALUMNI CLUB BRASS 

Without convention TV, a flock of our '34 can­didates are in key jobs in alumni clubs, east to west. Do we lead all classes? Look: 
St. Joe Valley: 'PAUL FERGUS, "34 and '35. Eastern Indiana:HARRY HART, Muncie. Los Angeles: 'BOB KELLEY. Miami: PARIS COWART, Man of Year. Mid-Hudson Valley: *HENRY FISHER. Mohawk Valley: 'LOUIS CLARK. New Jersey: DON DUGAN, ND Night chairman. San Antonio: BOB BUTLER, board. South Central Wisconsin: 'JOHN E. (RED!) 
TOBIN, PAUL BRANNAN, v-p. Central N. Y.: *ED KENEFAKE. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
ALBERT F. DAVIS 

Albert F. Davis, '28, has recently been appointed works manager of the Detroit Diesel Engine Division of Gen­eral Motors. 
He was graduated from Notre Dame with a mechanical engineering degree, and has been with General Motars since 1929. He joined the Research Laboratories Division after graduation, and transferred to the Cleveland Diesel Engine Division in 1935. In 1936 he was transferred back to De­troit to aid in the development of a new railroad Diesel engine for the Electro-Motive Division. 
Mr. Davis also worked on the de­velopment of a smaller Diesel for gen­eral power purposes, and was named administrative engineer of Detroit Diesel in 1949. 
Central N. J.: 'MIKE BALOG. Atlanta: 'BILL BECKLEY. Monongahcla: GEORGE MARTINET, secretary. CHECK STUB NOTES First quarter report for '34 was only fair in Foundation investment. 
Second probably better (see if report's in this issue.) We showed only 32 men of 577 giving $727 for a $22.72 average. That was income tax time, so maybe we're up there again. 
NEW LANDMARKS 

O'Shaughnessy hall's new square tower at the east end of the front quadrangle, the surprising Morris Inn at the entrance, the new police office and guide booth, Fisher hall, the dean-lined Sdence center, a double-sized power plant, and a new water tower will all greet you on your next visit. 
You'll be quite proud of what Father Cavanaugh and his aides have done for your school—with your $$$ help, I hope. 
You'll really fall for the beauty of O'Shaugh­nessy hall. It's fine from any angle. THE INN Always try to make reservations at the Morris Inn with Ed Hunt, manager. There's nothing quite like it. Golf facilities, terrace dining room, 92 guest rooms, free parking, meeting rooms. Try it for business sessions, you nearby guys. 
(* indicates president) 
BOOK CORNER 

Waat six iota good laughs? Want to feel the 
dadeis and saow under your feet again? Joia 
a goofing party? Like to get the hard mm of 
the giotto kacelcr under your cords again, the 
snoMT veiling the image and whitening the Borne? 
Send to the ND bookstore or see your own for 
DICK SinXIVAN's "Notre Dame." It will re­
create '34 for you, teach you dozens of things 
you never knew—and hold you until the last page. 
He did the best job of all ND books to date, 
I fed. 
GOOD LUCK, FATHERS! 

In case you're too busy, we'll give your vote of 
good wishes now to the new president, FATHER 
HESBURGH, and his talented young staff of vice-
presidents: FATHERS JOYCE, MOORE, MUR­
PHY. NORTON, WUSON. 
After FATHER CAVANAUCH's work in six 
years that brought him and ND greater national 
respect and acdaun, and «rith FATHER JOHN 
nearby as an aide, the new staff will carry on 
his laudable work. Really, you have to get back 
down there to appreciate what's been done. 
Support them: prayers, good word, letters, and 
at least a Foundation buck a month if you have 
it. It comes back in a hurry when you go down 
and walk around. 
REQUIESCAT 

Remember a prayer for the deceased mother of 
JOHN BURNS, former alumni staffer and editor, 
and of HUGH, the fozraer trainer. 
And for BROTHER JOEL WEPPLER, C.S.C.. 
of our class and Reitz Memorial High, EvamvUle. 
FINGER STRINGS 

Mrs. "Thirty-Four, please tie a bhie string to the guy's finger for a prayer for peace and his classmates, and a gold one to send a postcard about vou, his job, your children, his friends, to: 
MANSFIELD, EDWARD F. 
•34 Secretary 6575 Glenwood, Chicago. 

1935 
FmiUyn C Hodreiter, Seer. 
1327 Ftetwood R4. 
BaltiBore 12, Md. 
REUNION REGISTRANT 
VINCE MURIHY 

Here we are ^ain men wtd atiU the stream of life Ihiitt the battlefield is very thin. One letter. and that from our old faithful FRANK HOLA-Hi!^» came through the lines. We ran into our Class Prene BUX RYAN one day in a local res­taurant. Bill had lulled to get out to the house later, but a phone call had to suffice. 
It has been suggested recently that we assign the responsibility for getting in class notes to cer­tain members of the class. You all will remember that we tried that scheme about eight years ago. At that time we selected ten men for each issue of the ALUMNUS, workins down the alphabet from A to Z. The response was so meager that we abandoned the idea along about the H's. If any of you men on the fighting front can come up with a plan for bringing the news back to head­quarters, we are waiting for the intelligence. 
You will also recall that one of the chief reasons for electing four vice-presidents at the class elec­tion in 1950 was to bring in the news throng them from the four comers of the country and the four colleges of the University. 
So here goes with the HOLAHAN communique: 
"I just returned from a very interesting and instructive Club President's Council at ND, and thought I would relay a bit of informadon about a few of the *33ers who were there. Incidentally, I thought that our class was very well represented. 
"PHIL HEINLE represented the New Jersey Club, and Phil made it quite evident that hb Presidency has been full of woes. It seemed that the Alumni Office practically ignores that impwtant unit of our Club system, but I believe that Phil duly impressed JIM ARMSTRONG, '25, that he and bis Club merited better treatment. Phil, as you lukow, ,was recently made Assistant Purchasing Manager of Lever Brothers. He reported that Mrs. Heinle and the children axe in fine fettle, and we hope to meet them at one of the games this fall. We have frequently met them at games in the past. 
"It had been many years since I had seen JOBS NEESON and we had a fine visit. He bragged about his two sons, and I expressed «'"i'**'' views ^bout my two. At one session of the Council be 
presented a veo" good talk about Universal Notre Dame Night, which was instituted by his father in 1924. As you know, John is a prominent Philadelphia attorney as well as being a Director of the Alumni Association." (Your Scribe has found out that under the new Club s\'stcm, John is our sponsor here in Baltimore as he is for other clubs in the area.) 
"I had not seen JIM COLLERAN since gradua­tion. He is President of the Cleveland Club. He has been with Lybrand, Ross and Monlgomer>- as a C.P.A. since leaving school. He reports that he has two boys and two girls. Jim advised mc that BILL BURKHART is still the prosperous owner of the brcwer>' in Akron which bears his name. I go through Akron occasionally, and often wish I had time to stop at the brcwcrv- for a few cold ones. 
"TOM CAMPBELL and I had a short visit while waiting for our planes at tlic Bcndix airport. Tom is President of the Grand Rapids Club, lives at 2027 Union Blvd., in tliat city, and is Assistant Treasurer of Mclncmcy Spring and Wire Co. He JOHN LYNCH; St. Joseph Valle>-, PAUL FER­GUS; Detroit, DAN HENRY; Wilkes-Barre, NED ROWAN; Chattanooga, TOM O^VEN; Spokane, ARAfONDE ALSO; and Hawaii, TOM FLYNN. Congratulations to all of them from a past-prtade! 

A word is in order about one of our gang who made "Spotlight Alumnus" last issue — PHIL RYAN. We think that all of us should be justly proud that one of our own men holds such an important position in present foreign relations. To repeat the title—Social Program Administrator for the United Nations Ci\'il Assistance Command Korea. 
And let^s not omit a word in this column about the feat of another *35cr—JACK STANFORD— and his ver>- able handling of that DC-4 Braniff airliner in Kansas, saving the lives of 45 passen­gers. Vtc are proud of our "Spotlight" candidates. 
That's it, gang! Do we get some mail? THOMAS W. FLYNN, '35, has opened his own law practice in Honolulu after scr\'ing more than five years with the Attome>- General of Hawaii. 

A large, enthusiastic group of alumni gathered to attend the Fort Wayne Club picnic on June 14. 
has three sons and two daughters. "I called BILL RYAN on the phone, but he was working in Baltimore that week, and his plane was due to arrive in South Bend shortly after I left so I did not get to sec him. BilPs wife, Eloise, told me that the family is well now al­though Bill had a bad session last winter which required a trip to the Mayo Clinic. "I was glad to read about TOM WILLIAMSON in the last ALUMNUS, but sony to hear that he is no longer in York for I expect to be working there soon and I was going to look him up. "Do you remember GENE MALLOY? He fol­lowed us in '36. Gene represented Houston, Texas, at the conference. His card shou-s his trade name to be 'Malloy's Business Machines Co.,' 2815 
S. Xlain Street, Houston, Texas. **I know that you will be sorr>' to hear that CAMILLE GRAVEL'S fatlicr died recently. He was a great ND supporter and attended the last SMU game with us." (Our sincere condolences to Camille on the death of his fatlier—we know they were devoted pals.) "Unless our plans go awr>-, we expect to attend the Na\y, Penn and Oklahoma games this fall. Best regards to the Hochs and the Scholzs." You can all sec ^vhy we were so happy to have the pigeon fly in from Hollidaysburg, Pa. It always has an interesting storj' on its leg. Thanks again, Frank! PLEASE KEEP IT UP! Now that Frank has raised the point we thought wc would pursue it—did you know that we have 
ten *35ers as local chib presidents? Here arc the others to add to the above list: Connecticut Vallev, 
1936 
A. H. Aloomuin, Jr.» Secy. 1708 Industrial Bank BIdg. -Detitiit 26, Mich. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS DON VARRAVETO AND HUGH WALL 
During a recent call from MORRIS HERTEL who is connected with Pa;c Associates, he stated that tlie Holy Cross Fathers were going to staff four new Catholic high schools in Chicago. 
1937 
Frank J. Rcilly, Scc>-. 
y HaHthomc Ave. 
Merrick, N. Y. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS LOU ALAMAN, BILL BAILEY, HARRY BALD­WIN, RALPH BERNARD, PHIL BONDI, JOHN BRASSELL. TONY BRICK, CLIFF BROWN, BOB BURKE, JOHN CACKLEY, JERRY CLAEYS, JOHN COYLE, ART CRONIN, DICK DELANEY, CHARLIE DOHNALEK, PAUL DORAN, JOE DORGAN, H. J. DRUEKER, T. R. DUCEY, CHARLES DUFFY, REV. JOSEPH ENGLISH, M. M., AL ERSKINE, LOU FEHLIG, PAT FISHER, PAUL FOLEY, ED FOX, JOHN FRANCIS, WALLY FROMHART, FRED GAST, JERRY GOHMAN, ARCH GOTF, ART GREG­ORY, PAUL GUARNIERI, BOB HALEY, DON 

BANNING, PETE HEARDEN, FRANCIS HERB, ART HOFFMAN. LOUIS HOLLENBACH, JOHN HURLEY, PETE JOHNEN, CHARLIE JORDAN, REV. NED JOYCE, C.S.C., JACK KING, H. 
F. KOEHLER, GEORGE KRISTEL, REV. WILLIAM KUNSCH, NELSON L.\MPERT, JIM LEVI, REV. ROBERT LOCHNER, W. J. LYNCH, DICK McARDLE, TOM MCCARTHY, RAY McGRATH, ART MARTIN, HARRY MARR, 
B. A. MARTY, CHARLIE MILES, CHARLIE MEYERS, A. H. MOORMAN, JIM MOULDER, ART MULHOLLAND, PAUL MULLER, ED NEAHER, BOB NICKOL, WALT NIENABER, TONY O'BOYLE, COYNE O'CONNOR, JIM O'DONNELL, JIM O'HARA, J. R. OSGOOD, TOM PENDERGAST, J. P. QUINN, BERNIE REILLY, J. J. RUEN, JOE SCHILLING, BERT­RAND SCHLOEMER, TONY SCOLARO, JOE SHIELY, ALEX SLOAN, DICK SMITH, HARRY SPARLING, BILL STEINKEMPER, BILL STRUCK, BOB SULLIVAN, DAN SULLIVAN, WALTER TORY, BILL TUNNEY, JOHN ULL­MANN, FRED WOLTER, JOHN WAITERS AND BOB WEAVER. 
Paul Foley 
Mac&Ianus, John & .Adams, Inc. 
Fisher Building 
Detroit 2, Michigan 
Report of the 15th reunion, whidi is now offi­
cially over: 
The next important reunion of the Class of 1937 
will he held in the first week of June, 1957. At 
that time we will recover the three bodies in the 
lower reaches of Dillon Hall, finish all the cold 
cuts, get an honest golf score from somebody and 
hear the last ringing peals of laughter from ALEX 
SLOAN. 
Seventy-seven men registered for the affair under 
their real names. Seventy-three were listed as paid 
—a much better average than we ever had in 1937. 
These seventy-seven consumed $452.10 worth of beer 
and food and $3.60 worth of Coca-Cola. While the 
committee was out of the room stacking the elec­
tion of officers, it was discovered that vvc sho%v'ed 
a profit of $88.81. On the motion of a ringer it 
was decided to donate this to the University as a 
gift of the class. Within two weeks of this shock­
ing affair, Notre Dame had a new President. 
Naturally, the midwest area sent the largest mxrober—and far the noisiest. Among those wearing the green beanies, cunningly, were BILL STEIN­KEMPER, who has changed not at all; FATHER NED JOYCE who has changed into an even nicer guy and is big as a house (and don't forget he has just been named Executive Vice-President of Notre Dame); FATHER BOB LOCHNER who didn't look too hot at the plate in tlic Softball game but is a lot more youthful than you are; FATHER JOE ENGLISH who's a lot more youth­ful than anybody. 
Then there were ALEX SLOAN, who never stopped laughing longer than a gulp; JOE DOR­GAN who attempted a free consultation with DR. ART HOFFMAN and got no place; JOE DitUECKER had a long lead in the golf-lying derby tmtil JACK HURLEY came up with some involved yam of shooting a birdie on one hole while playing a borrowed accordion. 
WALLY NIENABER was there, too. And JOHNNIE BRASSELL, BERNIE REILLY, DICK McARDLE, and TONY O'BOYLE, who must have some priceless documentary movies of late adolescent bacUash. PHIL BONDI had the wonderful charm working as good as ever. HARRY BALDWIN hasn't changed more than eight or nine strokes. 
There were lots of Bobs on hand: BOB NICKOL, BOB DUCEY, BOB BURKE, BOB HALEY, BOB WEAVER, BOB SULLIVAN and probably a few I missed. They were a prosperous looking group. 
JIM MOULDER came because he knew he could win a prize—for having the most children, six-A holloiv victory any way you look at it. JACK ULLMANN took honors for having the youngest child—two months. You will recall that Jack was always rather easy-going. 
DICK SMITH was rewarded for coming all the way from El Paso, the longest trip of any returnee. A motion got lost in the shuffle to give ZEKE CACKLEY a prize for coming the shortest dis­tance and doing the most work, but when the votes were counted it turned out we had voted for another case of Hamm's Hi-Ho. 
HANK RUEN and GEORGE KRISTEL tied for the honor of having the oldest child, both claimed 14 as the age but it has been pretty well established that Rucn's boy has already played three seasons at St. Viator's. Since it was a tie, no prize was awarded, naturally. 

ART CRONIN came along because he has to cover at least three separate class reunions just to be real sure. ARCH GOTT was there represent­ing a slimmer type athlete. 
BILL TUNNEY hasn't changed much, >hidi is fine wtih me. BUCKY JORDAN looked, real good, too. PETE JOHNEN, wc must report in honesty, can never look a Thomas hair ad in the face again but he's as sHm as ever and fairly fast in the early innings. RAY McGRATH looked pretty fast even after dark. 
There was a trio of Jim's there, too: JIM 
O'DONNELL, JIM O'HARA, JIM LEVI in great 
shape. 
JOE QUINN made the reunion a stop on his 
vacation and had Mrs. Quinn and his little son 
with him, perfect Kttlc vest-pocket Joe, but it 
needs a fairly thick vest pocket. 
LEE MOORMAN was on hand mainly to guide 
a caravan to a delightful eatery in the outer sub­
urbs of Niles. Mrs. Kfoorman and Mrs. Art 
Cronin were close by attending a St. Mary's 
reunion but it got them no place. 
^VALLY FROMHART drove down from Michi­
gan and looked ready to start at the blast of a 
whistle—what's more, he looked ready to finish. 
JOHN N. CACKLEY, JR., sent in a long 
letter all cluttered up with a lot of facts about 
the affair. Here are some of them: 
The reunion secretary wishes to publicly express 
his gratitude to committeemen who worked ver\­
hard on countless details in arranging the reunion 
weekend. They devoted much personal time and 
effort in planning and preparing for various hems 
such as food, "beer, etc. Also mailing pieces and 
miscellaneous details entered into the job. The 
group which I think did an outstanding bit of 
work included MILT BOCK, JOHN BRASSELL, 
JERRY CLAEYS, ED FISCHER, HARRY KOEH­
LER and KARL KING. 
The committee wishes to express thanks to 'city chairmen' and 'chairmen of the majors' for their assistance and co-operation in stimulating attend­ance at the reunion. These two groups included: BILL PENDERGAST, AL BRIDE, MAUREY QUINN, BOB DUCEY, JOE DORGAN. BILL LYNCH, WALT NIENABER, BOB BURKE, CHUCK LEIBIN, MARC KERIN, PAUL FOLEY, JACK ULLMANN. DON HANNING, TONY O'BOYLE, BERNIE NIEZER, ART HOFFMAN. FRANK GEARY, LEIGHTON YOUNG, JOHN FORD, ED REARDON, GENE LING, ED BOYLE, FRED MULCAHY, BILL GOMBER, JACK GILLESPIE,. ED HOYT, JOHN KING, LEN TOSE. LOU ALAMAN, HAL MILLER, PAUL BARKER, DON ALLEN. JACK HURLEY, LOU FEHLIG, CARL SENGER, DICK RILEY, HERB KENYON, JOHN ARMSTRONG, BILL NARDONE, MARTY BURNS. JOHN MARBACH, LARRY DANBOM. JOHN POWERS, JAMES DALY, NICK ROMANKO, JOHN McNEILL, 
JACK PUTNAM. JOHN LAUTAR, JOHN BRAS­SELL, JERRY CLAEYS and JOHN COYLE. 
Oh, yes, in a piece of legerdemain rivaling the fabled Indian rope trick, ofHcers of the class were elected. They arc Prsidcnt, LOU ALAMAN; \-ice-president, DON HANNING; secretary, PAUL FOLEY; treasurer, JOE QUINN. The way the motion was worded (in Serbo-Croat) most present thought it involved more food. JOE QUINN will now write a 500-word essay on the duties of a class treasurer. 
15 YEAR REUNION 
JUNE 12-13-14 

Charles Callahan, Secy. Sports Publicity Dept. 
Notre Dame, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTRANT CHARLES CALLAHAN 

JOSEPH A. CALLAHAN, formerly with the Public Relations Bureau of the New York City Police Department, has recently joined the faculty of Riverside Alilitary Academy, Gainesville, Georgia. Joe has been attending the Graduate School of Education (night) at Fordham and last month re-
Grads of '37 relax in the lounge at the Rock. 
ceived the degree of Master of Science in Educa­tion. Besides teaching history* and English at Riverside, a prep school located about fifty miles north of Atlanta, he will also ser\'c as line coach in football. His new address is Lt. Col. JOSEPH 
A. CALLAHAN, Riverside Military- Academy, Gainesville, Georgia. 
JOHN P. MAHONEY, JR., '33, was called back to active duty as a captain in the Judge Advocate General Corps of the army, and is now scrx'ing as an assistant staff judge advocate with the 37th Infantry Division (Ohio National Guard) at Camp Polk, La. He intends to return to his law practice in Ashtabula, Ohio, when his 24-month tour of duty is over. 
On the first weekend of June, 1953, the 15th reunion of the class of 1938 is scheduled to take place. I know. Imagine! Fifteen years. What's more, when wc all return in June, it will only be lacking a couple of months of 19 years since that September day in 1934 when the '38 group was being aborning. 
This reluctant and intictive chroniclccr of class notes will attempt to return to the active division of correspondents during the ensuing period prior to our great gathering. .\nd as a lonesome voice, it behooves us to have the audacity to ask fellow '38 clansmen to stop beefing about the cost of living long enough to send along a few* pearls of information on your own doings, and also any­thing you might know* of others of our group. Just send the letter to the sports publicity ofHce at school. That's right next door to the itcket office, and I'm sure that a good many of you are going to take time off to send an application blank and a check in that direction with the football season coming up. Therefore, as a sug­gestion, I move that after ordering your tickets, you spend a little more time at the writing table and send some information to this comer. 
TOM MULLIGAN, ^vho was recalled to the Na\y and will not finish a two-year tour of duty until next April writes as Lieutenant Commander Mulligan from U.S.N.R. Training Center, Charles and Boundary* Streets, Portsmouth, Ohio: '' . . . heard from CHUD SCANNELL, my old roomie, the other day. He has just been mustered out of the Army following a long lour of duty in Germany. He too was recalled, haring been a member of the Connecticut National Guard. Also had a short letter from SCOTT REARDON saying all is well in Sioux Falls, S. D. While in Seattle a few* montfis ago, I visited with CHARLIE OSBORNE. I hadn't seen him since both of us were at Har\*ard Law School. He's an attorney specializing in tax work. 
*'Saw TOM RINI and BOB HACKMAN while I was home on leave (in Cleveland) in May. Bob is now located in Youngstown, O. I tried without success to locate JOHN BOURKE while in the Seattle area. If anybody knows of his whereabouts, I'd appreciate receiving such information ... " 
JOE CALLAHAN wrote from New York City to say that he was taking a new position and that after August 1st, his address w*ill be: Lt. Col. Joseph Callahan, Riverside Military Academy, Gainesville, Ga. Joe is going to teach and also 
coach football at the Georgia school. JACK ZERBST wrote me last April: "Spending a few weeks .in Europe en route back to the 
U.S.A. from Brazil. Hope to attend Conuncnce­ment and sec you at that time." I difln't see Jack chiring either the Commencement or Reunion periods. I assume he Is back in South America again. His note came from Stvitzerland. 
I went up to speak at the Detroit Alumni Golf party and among those in attendance were: TIM CRUICE, TED TREFZER, DON CURRIER and 
J. J. GORMAN. 
Seen at Reunion time around school were HAL LANGTON (and Mrs.) CHUCK SWEENEY, and HARVEY FOSTER. The latter was one of the top brass of the aiTair in his capacity as National Alumni President. 
DR. TOM HUGHES wrote from Columbus, O., some time back to say that he and his wife now have four boys and three girls . . . wonder if he has the top pcaitioa in the class stork derby. Be a good idea to check on PAUL LEAHY, TiflSn, O., in this department, inasmuch as he was the father of six at the 10-year reunion. 
The South Bend Class of '38ers had a dinner at 
the airport dining rcxim on June 14. A photo of 
this appears elsewhere. JACK LAHEY was -the 
chairman and CHUCK SWEENEY the toastmaster. 
That's sdl for now*, but what about some letters 
before the next issue. 
1939 
Vincent DeCoancr, Secy. 
1917 Elizabeth 
Kansas City 2, Kans. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS HUGH BURNS, BILL AIEYERS AND GREG RICE 
Not mucih in the way of news this issue, but a tew facts ought to be noted. Had a very enjoyable conversation with JACK GRIFFIN who was in tovm for a few days last week. Jack is in a real estate mortgage and promotion business in St. toms and from what I can gather both from reports and from the papers, a rather active man in Demo­cratic politics. He reports the affairs of the St. Louis organization is coming along in good shape and one of the purposes of his visit was to talk to JOE STEWART, '22. who is the Kansas City Fotmdation Chairman. 
If it has not ah-eady been repo<^ed, TOM FOYE, on his annotmcement of his new law partnersh^ (Haniffin and Foye, 113 West 7th Street. Los Angeles) had a few notes. BOB HEUTHER is still at Northnip Aviation. PAT SHEA is back at Southern CaUfomia Gas Company in Los An­geles, and it seems a wonder of wonders that Tom. and my Mother and Father found seats next to each other at the dinner for Father Cavanaugfa which the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles put on this spring. 
One of our classmates, of course, has risen to a new position in the aviation indtutry since this was last reported. WALT JOHNSON of Wrangler and Bengal Bout fame, has been appointed secre­tary of the American Air Lines after serv^g for 
•a few years as regional vice-president. 
WILLIAM P. MAHONEY, JR., *39. is a candl­<late for county attorney in Maricopa, Arizona. He received his A.B. degree in 1939, and an LL.B. in I£MO. He formerly ser\-cd as assistant atiomcy -general of Arizona. 
1940 
Kidiard Burke, Secy. 146 FaxtoB Drive 'South Bend, Ind. REUNION REGISTR.ANT BGB S>VEENEY WALTER L. DRAY has moved from Crystal Lake, Illinois, to Davenport, Iowa. He is now 
•working
 with Bendix Pioneer Central Division. IValter and his wife are the proud parents of six 

•children—four
 girls and two boys. BILL TOBIN, a Lieutenant Commander in the 


Naxy stationed at the U. S. Na^-al Supply Depot in San Diego, California, writes: "I entered the 
•Na\'y
 in 1941 and am now the Planning Officer 

•at
 the U. S. Naval Supply Depot, San Diego, Calif. L. J. REILLY (LOU), '40, is a LCdr. in the Supply Corps of the Na\-y and is at present 


Supply Officer of the USS Eldorado; based in San Diego. BILL FALLON (1941) is also a Supply Officer and is on the USS Caralier. We three get together frequently in San Diego. 
"On a recent trip to Denver saw TOM TIER­
•NEY
 and JACK AKOLT (lawTcrs) and AL O'MEARA (auto business). These lads started but 

•did
 not finish with the class of '40, Also saw 


DAN MONAGHAN (MD) of the class of 1938. Ran across RAY PINELLI (liquor business), '41, 
•while
 waiting for a plane at National .•\irport, '\Vashington, D. C. Ray now resides in San Fran­

•dsco
 as does his brother ROY (MD), '40. 


"A year ago last February, when I was Supply Officer of the USS Wright I had a chance to visit the Holy Cross House in Rome and had a nice 
•chat
 with MSGR. DOHENY, CS.C. "Believe your column would do well to plug for 

•a
 few dimes for FATHER ED BAUER, CS.C , •of Austin, Texas. He graduated with '40 and 

•could
 use our support. In travelling about the 

•OTuntry
 I find many people supporting Ed's Mis­sion. The class of '40 could well pick a less 

•worthy
 cause. "Will try to close the inten-al on future notes •of interest." DICK A&IES, P.O. Box 146, Dickinson, North Dakota, writes: 


"•After reading your print of Jerry Saegert's 
letter in the recent ALUMNUS, I decided to take 
up his suggestion and do my bit in tr>-£ng to get 
the Class of '40 back into the neira column. 
"Last Fall I left the Texas Company and joined 
Keystone Exploration Co., out of Houston, Texas. 
1 am still knocking about the country doing Geo­
physical Exploration trying to find a little oil. 
"As for family it is almost a habit now. I have 3 boys and one girl plus about 8/9 of a ? which will appear sometime this month. ^Vhat is vour score? BUD KERR tried to keep up with me on the family size but I guess he has given up by now, 
"I too would like to read more news about «iifferent ones of '40, so I am right along with Jerry and would like to see the news column for 1940 be the biggest of all. It alwa« has been the best." 
1942 
Waiiam E. Scanlon, Seo-, 
400 E, 111th St, 
Funman Trust & Savings Bank 
Chicago 28, m, 
REUNION REGISTRANTS LAWRENCE AUBREY. BILL BAADER, DAVE BAGLEV, FRED BECKMAN, JACK BERGEN JOE BERGEN, MIKE CARR, TOM CARROLL JOE GHAMPLEV, JOHN CLIFFORD, DON CONNORS. JB I CONWAY, B, A. CRIMMINS, EUGENE DEVDJE, JOE DIMOND. JIM DOYLE RAY EICBENLAUB, DON FIEGEL, BOB FUSH­ELBERCER, JBI GALT, TOM GESELBRACHT. JOHN GILBERT. DR. ED GLASER, JOHN GOR­DON, STEVE GRALIKER, DON GRANT, ED GRgSmiECK. VICTOR GULYASSY, D(Xi CUYETTE, EO HACKETT. BOB HAG.4N, DOUGLAS HALEY. JIM HALEY. ED HALLER, 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
H. CLAY JOHNSON 
H, Clay Johnson, '32, was recently 
named as deputy U. S. manager and 
executive vice-president of the Royal-
Liverpool Insurance Group, which 
ranks among the leading fire, casualty, 
and marine insurance groups of the 
country. He will retain his position of 
general counsel with the company. 
Clay was graduated from Notre 
Dame with an A.B. degree, and an 
LL.B. in 1934. He also received an LL.M, degree from the Catholic Uni­versity of •America in 1935, and re­mained on the law faculty of that in­stitution for several years. 
In 1941 he was appointed special assistant to the president of the New York Stock Exchange, after serving a number of years as counsel with the RFC. He rejoined the RFC during the war years to help wth the govern­ment's rubber program. He was active in the formation of the war damage in­surance program, and served as vice-president of the War Damage Corp., until the end of the war. 
BOB HARGRAVE, BOB HARRINGTON, JOHN HART, JERRY HEINLEN. TOM HENNIGAN. GEORGE HENRY. BILL HICKEY. DAN HIL­GARTNER, MIKE HINES. TOM HOBAN, DON HOGAN, JOHN HOGAN, JOHN HOELSCRER. DAN HOLWELL, TOM HORAK, BILL HOUSE. BILL HURRLE, BENEDICT JASKOWSKI, BY­RON KANALEY, CHARLIE KEARNEY, EM­METT KEENAN, ROBERT KEHOE. MICHAEL KELLY, THOMAS KENEDY, BILL KENNEDY, DICK LAJOIE. PAUL LILLIS, LEO LINCK, P, 
J. LUCIER, WALTER McOOURT. COLEMAN McGUIRE, DICK McHUGH, HOWARD MdN ­TOSH, CHARLES McMAHON. JAMES McNUL-TY, JIM McVAY, TED MacDONALD, WILLIAM MADDEN, BOB MADDOCK, jora i MALONE, DON MARTIN, FRED MEYERS, T. D. NASH. PAUL NEVILLE, FRANK O'DOWD, BOB O'HARA, JIM STJEAL, J. ELMER PEAK, C. P. 
PITKIN, ALBERT PLOTKIN, FRANK POLL­NOW, TOM POWERS, JIM PURCEIX, FRAN­CIS QUINN, JOHN ROBINSON, BOB ROBSON, RAYMOND ROY, HENRY SCHRENKER. SCOOP SCANLAN. VINCE SHIELY. GEORGE SOBEK, GEORGE SUPPLTTT, BILL TOBIN, FRANK VETT, JOHN VERDONT, GEORGE WENDT, R. D. WILLEIM, LEONARD WOLFE, BOB WRIGHT AND ERNEST ZIMMER, 
COL. FRANCIS S. GABRESKI, a leading air ace with 37^4 downed planes to his credit, recently returned from campaign duty in Korea. In San Francisco he was given the Key to the City in brief ceremonies on the steps of City Hall, 
10 YEAR 
REUNION JUNE 12-13-14 
Jofca L. Wiggutt 
11404 Ropier I-ane 
Dallas 14, Texas 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 
j m DELANEV, FRANK KAISER AND 
RAY SCHOONHOVEN 
Some announcement cards comprised the mail to your columnist during the past two months. The first announcement came from JACK RYAN and GERRY SHEA who announced the opening of their office for the general practice of law and public accounting. Their offices are located in the Kfa­jestic Building, Denver, Colorado. The second announcement came from BILL MIDDENDORF heralding the arri\-al of their daughter on Afay 18. Peggy is the fifth little Middendorf. 
From the offices of JIM ARMSTRONG, '25, the Alumni Secretary, ! have received a letter which proclaimed the success of the \'arious class reunions whidi were held this past June. The plans have been laid to hold the reunians next year on June 12, 13, and 14. As you remember we had an ex­cellent representation at the five-year reunion, so we should have a great w*cekend in 1953 which will be the 10-year reunion. 
Mon of us have just returned from our summer vacations, but those of us who live great distances from the campus can begin planning for the week­end of June 12 to be part of the 1953 vacation schedule. 
By the time the next issue of the ALUMNUS reaches you we should have made some preliminary plans for the greatest 10-year reunion Notre Dame has ever- seen. So all you fat boys, bald heads, and 5 or 6 time fathers plan to be in South Bend next June to coimt the gray hairs in my head. 
This column welfximes any suggestions that you might have regarding any suggestions ycu might care to make. Most of ;aX\ we want those letters, so we can keep this column alive during the prc­reunion period. Let's have a postcard from each of you! 
ROBERT CORRIGAN received his Master of Arts degree from Western Reser\'e University, Cleveland, in June. 
1944 
Geatgt A. Balisdllo, Jr,, ScaTtary 515 Fifth Avenue Bndley Beadi, New Jcney 
Hiya gang! 
TWENTY-TWO MONTHS TO GO! And we'll be ND4}ound for our 10-year reunion! Some issues ago 'The Column" recommended you begin mak­ing those long-range plans. It now repeats the suggestion that you checlc your 1954 datebool and reserve Reunion Weekend for what augurs to be a mighty gala get-together. In the interim, this cohmm will have to continue to serve as our only medium of news exchange. All of which brings me to the never-ending wail of the class secretary —beseeching, imploring and yes even begging (and praying) for more items to pass along the ALUM­NUS-vine, Have YOU taken a few moments during the past year or two or three or five to drop a few words to "The Column"? You'd be suiprised how many of your campus buddies would welcome news of your curreot setup, locale, the wife, and baby (Its). They're like you—they flip to the '44 column in the class news section anxious to read a familiar name. So why not send along a line or two smd put them to shame for not writing thenuelves! 

Incldentally> I should mention this, 'cause it inevitably happens that within the 48-hour period after the completed column ts mailed to meet the deadline more news arrives from one or two of you lads, and then it has to lay over a couple of months till the next edition. Take this issue, for instance: deadline date Is July 18th; column will be deposited in the mails at Bradley Beach (N. J.} on the 15th; the magazine should reach you at home sometime in August. Now those of you who may have written about mid-July and don't find your news In this column will understand It was no oversight, but was received too late to meet your secretary's deadline, as witness what happened last issue when BOB MARTINA's "Air Mail Special" from Hawaii missed by a hair's breadth. Bob is n papa again—on Palm Sunday when a brother for son Bobby arrived. New one is "Paul." At the time of writing Bob was scheduled for a change of station with a possibility of assignment to the Naval Air Missile Test Center in Calif., near L.A. ' Bob writes: 
"Glad to hear about PHIL CLARKE and PAT YOKLAVICH—wondered where they might be these days. Seems that they both are having success, especially In raising families. I wonder whatever became of the mob that used to frequent Cavanaugh In the faU of '40—DAN WATERBURY, BOB DUFFY, FARRELL QUINLAN, JOE GIBBENS— I'll never forget the time they mQved Joe's furniture and all of his gear out of his room. Don't know where they found a key to fit his door. Ask DUFFY sometime. I wonder if BROTHER CO­LUMBA is still on the campus—he frequented the Chem Hall—^you know I think it would be a good idea for the ALUMNUS to periodically list names of the faculty and their respective colleges, so that the alumni would be current on who is still around. 
"Well, old Hawaii is about the same; I have had my fill of the place. It's a good place for a visit, but not for permanent living. I miss the States—one can move around there without going in circles. 
"What is new from JOHN BEYERLE—haven't heard a word about him. DAN TOMCIK—I won­der If he's still in South Bend. Also ED WATFERS —guess he's still at Annapolis. How about JOHN GULDAN7 And I can't forget my old buddy, "Sock"—ED SOCHALSKI. I wonder if he was responsible for a design on a ranch type home I saw in the papers recently. Some outfit in Detroit designed it. I guess GEORGE CHARTERS is still in Oregon." (Ed. note: Wish the foregoing would check in so the info could be passed along to Bob and other '44ers via the column}. 
Congrats to PAUL O'CONNELL whose remarks in a recent letter printed in this column have moved his old sidekick, THOMAS E. KELLY, to write: "As Paul mentioned, I'm working for Pitt. Consol. Coal Co., Research & Development here in Library, Pa. It's a fine, modern outfit and one of the best equipped in the country. Utilization of coal is a big problem facing the coal industry. Construction of a large pilot plant is underway and will cover low temperature carbonization, lar refining, catalytic cracking and pitch coking. In­cidentally, we're advertising for men in the Chem. & £ng. News and any fellows reading this and in­terested have my word conditions and salary are tops. 
"As for news about '44ers I can't contribute too much. I used to see TOM FERRARI and ROGER FUETTER occasionally but it's been quite some time since our last meeting. At the time Ferrari was still in the beverage business—Schenley, that is, and Fuetter was with Gulf. I hear from JIM RICE (Chicago) rarely and he's in Chem Law. Jim came back to ND after being in service, but I believe he considers himself a member of '44. I met PAUL DUGAN at the last ND-Pitt game and he's still the same ND enthusiast that he was in '40. I remember Paul's first vacation from ND in '40—you couldn't see his suitcase for ND stick­ers. During my brief jaunt in the service I spent some time with TOM CONATY in Corps school, San Diego, and occasionally ran Into CHARLIE FROBERGER. My last trip to ND was for the North Carolina game a few years back and the only familiar faces were ED FREDERICKS and our most loyal alumnus, EARL ENGLERT. I read recently where JOE CHRISTEN had moved to 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
ROBERT E. SAVERS 

Robert E. Sayers, '50, received the 
degree of Master of Auto-Motive En­
gineering from the Chrysler Institute 
of Engineering in Detroit, June 11. 
He is one of a group of graduate 
engineers from all parts of the country 
who were selected by Chrysler Cor­
poration for entrance into the Insti­
tute's two-year, post-graduate course 
in automotive engineering, which led 
to the conferring of his degree. Mr. 
Sayers, who now lives in Detroit, has 
assumed duties in Chrysler's Engineer­
ing Division. 
He holds a bachelor of science de­
gree in mechanical engineering from 
Notre Dame. 
the Lomus Co. in N. Y. Thu company has done some work for us on pitch coking, a process I'm presently assigned to. 
'^Perhaps when fellows see their name in print (like I did) they may come across. Fm interested in hearing news about the boys I mentioned as well as BOB BURKE, MEL WILKE and many other fellows I was privileged to associate with." 
The Bermuda holiday enjoyed by our columnist-emeritus, BILL TALBOT, and reported in this column recently has been clarified. It was a 10.day winter sojourn coinciding with the island's tennis championships, mixed doubles title which was copped by our own Billy! Congrats! And here's news Bill passes along, unfortunately now a bit dated since Talbot's letter was another one that came across the desk moments after the last dead­line: "The other night was Universal Notre Dame Night with the New York Club and we had a few 'Mtn: JACK McCABE, BOB and DAN CASEY. AUSTIN JONES, ANDY BARBIERE, JOHN DUF­FY, BILL O'CONNOR, CHUCK KOEGLER and JOE CHRISTEN. It was a rousing good meeting. And the good news—both ANDY BARBIERE and BILL O'CONNOR are marrying on May 31st, and both by a remarkable coincidence are flying to Bermuda on the same plane on the same day. They asked me (and 1 accomplished same) to get them tickets for one of the opening nights at the theatre in Bermuda. We're thinking of having a '44 golf rally before Bill and Andy shove off, but I'd prefer not to say anything more about it be­cause that would practically describe the summer to you." 
jn i MAHONEV, who's BOW assocUted widi C 
L. Miboaer Co. (mcchaaieal contractDn) in Kala­mazoo, Midi., is another of the old gnard who came IIIMWHII Jim's welcome report follows; "Jaal. picked op my latest edition of tiie ALUMNUS and felt lather guilty that I have not taken the-time to write much in the past. (You're not alone, Jim!) I am still here in Kazoo and Gen. Mgr. of the company. Still have only three little one*—for the present. Have not seen enough of the dasa of '44 to report on but will try to put down a few notes of interest. BERNIE BOMTUNC ef Louisville was tip last weekend and stayed with his wife and oldest of four ciiildren. He told me that EAKL ENGLERT is still operating out of Louisville and getting on famously. 1 was doMO to Elkhart and saw FETE ASHBAUGH and went over and watched our neat year's team go throu^ the works with Frank. Saw BOB McBRIDE while-there also. Last year I was in Chicago and lookecf up FRANK VIGNOLA and STRATTE COORLAS. They were both doing well and in good spirits. Last fall I ran into JIM CROWLEY and JO t MALONE down in North Carolina. Often wonder what has happened to some of that old gang suclk as ART LEY, BOB METZLER, BOB McKELVY,. JIM FLATT, MK E MALLOY. Almost forgot but I also ran into FRANNY CURRAN up in Alpena, Mich., where he is coaching Alpena Catholic Cen­tral aod doing a great job. (Ed. note; Franny. has just been ^pointed coach of Catholic Higb School in South Bend.) Well, that's about all for now but will try to remember and drop a line-more often." 
Now, how's about a line from YOU? 
P.S.: Anyone know wliat happened to JACK 
WOELFLE. HARRY YEATES. JOWi BAUM. 
JIM CDEA, BERNIE GHIGLIERI. JOE CIS­
NEY. DICK A'HEAKN. ED DRINKARD, LARRV 
GOEBELER, and "BUZZ" HASSETT? 
1945 
Al JfTtmn, Secretary 
61-56 82nd Street 
Efanrant, New Yocm 
NOW IS TIffi TIME FOR ALL GOOD MEN ... 
The h^ipy business of organizing a class' has progressed far enough for us to take the positive^ step of collecting dues—dues which will be useJ for the good of the class, especially for use m what has to be one of the bat 10-year rcunTons ever held (BEST only because everyone wilt Be-there)­
However, it Is not enough merely to wish the reunion to be the best. It has to be made to be the best. It means plenty of work and tune. Aocf it costs money. Therefore, we are asking each member of the gang of '45 who thmks we've been doing a good job with this column—and more jm* portant, with the organhation of what was a tost class—to send in a check for $1.00 to our clasv treasurer, RAY BADDUR. Make ysur checks payable either to Ray or to THE NOTRE DAME CLASS OF '45, and maU them to: 
Mr. RAYBfOND BADDUR 
Dept. of Chem. Engineering 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 
This is the only money which will be asked of you between now and the reunion. It is a "one­time" dues. A complete record of money received and speat wifl be presented to the class at the reunion by your treasurer and by your president. 
Show your appreciation for the work that ii being done. Add your strength to our drive. Mait RAY BADDUR your check today while it is io your mind. Don't make us have to come and get you and shake it out of your wallets. Make it easy for us and send the check now. Extra mail­ings cost our class money, but we'll have to resort to that ii dues don't come m "voluntarily." 
HERE AND THERE 

Your secretary recently had a very enjoyable-surprise in the visit of COCO LULU . Enrique (name used on formal occasions only) was m New York on business for his dad's finn "AntonTo-Lulli Soc. Anon." of Lima, Peru. Coco looks swell. He and ERNIE RAUSCHER had the mu-fortune of being the target «f my wife, Betty Jane, at dinner one evening. We enjoyed thoroughly the bull-session together, and the constant funny antics of funny-man. Ernie and hu perfect straight man-Coco. AH that was needed to transform our living room into a Sorin den was the other third of one 
Aug.-Sept^ 1952 4? 
of the famous '45 trios, GEORGE DESPOT. 
Another \Tsit which was just as much fun was 
one your sccrctan" paid to FRED "GODFREY" 
BREMER and his ivondcrful wife, Mar>- Ellen. 
Thcv live in their own lovely home in the suburbs 
of VVashington, D. C. Fred is going to law sdiool 
evenings. It is always a real pleasure to go down 
lo visit that former roommate. 
DOTS .AND D.^SHES 
Memo to JIM PARIS: I haven't forgotten your 
request for that address you wanted . . . it's 
\R T C LEY, 1330 Xfontreal Avenue, Dallas, 
Texas. .' . . As for you, RAY KOPITUK, I'm 
still working on getting you the addresses of JI.M 
KRESS (Ed. note: The Alumni Office record shows 
Jim Kress lo be at 611 W. 2nd, Marion, Ind.) 
and GEORGE FINN. .. . One of these years 
I'll succeed . . . Another address I'm working on 
is that of BILL FITZHARRIS (Ed. note: .Accord­
ing to Alumni Office he may be contacted at 123 
Forest Ave., New Rochelle, X. Y.) for JIM 
CLY'NES. . . . Congratulations to DR. JEROME 
F. CORDES on his recent marriage to Miss Rosa Gracicla Marcos in St. Louis. . . . Congratulations to AL CIZAUSK.AS and his wife on the birth of little Albert Charles. . . . Congratulations to MIKE MANZO on his marriage in Arlington, Mass. to Miss Marie Guarentc. . . . Congratula­tions to DR. JOHN V. .\LLEN on the opening of his office at 233 Radcliffc Street, Bristol, Pa., for the practice of general medicine. . . . Con­gratulations to FRANK J. CURRAN on his mar­riage to Miss Doris Elisabeth Wolf in Bronrville, ^ , Y". . . . Congratulations to CH.ARLES 
•"CHUCK" SARTORE on his recent election to Secretar>- of the Notre Dame Club of Memphb. 
. Hope you're still coming East on your vaca­tion this year. Chuck, and that I'll get to sec you here. . . . Congratulations to FRANK LINEHAN on his recent election to President of the Notre Dame Club of Schenectady .. . no congratula­tions whatsoever for the following men who refuse to answer mv inquiries about their actiWtics: JOHN CL.\RY, JOHN CASSIDY, ART HIE­MENZ, JOE VATTER, BOB SCHIEL, JOHN FENA, HARRISON HANSON, DON STECH­SCHULTE, and FR.ANCISCO aABREK.4. . . . Shame!! 
LETTERS FROM DEP.\RTMEN"T From FATHER ROL.-«^"D G. SIMONITCH, C.S.C.: "You've certainly kept up the '45 news in good stv'lc! Have been trying to contact RAY' KOPITUK for months, but after reading all the vay through the column in the .ALUMNUS, I learn the company name, but not the town!! send me a note. Sincerely in Notre Dame," (Father, I sent your note on to Ray, and I guess that by now you have received my letter ginng you Ray's address. But in case you haven't, it's 466 Walton Road, Maplewood, New Jersey—A\) 
From ROBERT L. MARSKE: "I'm sure you don't remember me—at least not by name since I wasn't able to get to our last class reunion. However, I've certainly enjoyed keeping up with class and school events by following your articles in the ALUMNUS. Also, I would like to add my name to the hie of the Class of '45. 
"As you've already surmised from my return address, I'm no longer in the good old U.S.A. My last duty station was at Great Lakes, Illinois, but since the first of April I've been here in Korea. .At present I am battalion surgeon of the 2nd Battalion, 1st Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division. We're located north of the Iwjin River, and several miles east of the peace-talk site. Tilings have been fairly quiet until the past couple of 
•weeks
 when we began seeing quite a few casualties." I hope I have the address correct as: Lt. (j. g.) 

S.
 L. MARSKE, 2nd Battalion, 1st Marines, Ist ^larine Division, c/o FPO, San Francisco, Cali­fornia.) 


From FATHER HOWARD KEX.XA, C.S.C.: "I've been hoping lo run into you but luck is contrarv'. We seem lo move in difTercnt circles. I hope you have been well and happy. Mv immediate request is ERNIE RAUSCHER's address. I'd be grateful to you for it. God bless you." (Father Kenna, as you know, working for a defense plant leaves very little time that one can call his own. I have been tr>-ing to see you at one of the New-York Alumni Club meetings, but so far these last few months it has been impossible for me to at­tend. The next one will be difTerent. I hope you received my letter with Ernie's address, but if you haven't, it's A-2 Greenbrier Court, Allwood, Clif­ton, New Jersey.) 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
REV. PAUL J. HALLINAN 
Rev. Paul J. Hallinan, '32, Director of the Intercollegiate Newman Club of Cleveland, Ohio, has recently em­barked on a building campaign aimed at enlarging and remodeling the pres­ent NeuTXian Hall, which serves as a center for Newman Club social, reli­gious, and educational activities. 
Father Hallinan hopes to add a new chapel and guild room, each to seat a hundred persons, to the hall. The Newman Club of Cleveland has six chapters at Western Reserve Univer­sity', Case Institute of Technology, Fenn College, and Dyke College. 
From ROBERT E. THOMAS: "Your plea for communications has caused another of the long lost to answer up. I am a member of the October 1945 XROTC class and maybe this will spark some of the rest of that group to vrrhc. I am not sure what class we arc supposed to be in, but I would like to be considered in tlic class of '45 since I know more in that group and your column always contains more familiar names than any other. 
"I recently ran into ART KARTMAN on the USS Foss (DE 59) in San Diego. He took a one-day ride with me on an underseas raider. I also saw J. D. USINA last vear while he was aboard the USS Essc-c (CV 9). VIRGIL KENNEDY has been recalled and is going to photographic interpretation school. His present address is 1313 Congress Street SE, Washington, D. G. Virgil tells mc FRANK (RED) McFADDEN is on the USS Wisconsin over near the "slanl-cvcd coast.** Red, JAGK HASTEN, R.\Y WOLLAM, and my­self sewed on our two full stripes a couple of montlis ago. BILL FALLON, M2, was the Supply Officer of submarine squadron tlircc when I left San Diego last month. 
"I imagine several of the NROTG boys of '45 have been recalled to active duty by now and I would certainly like to see them or hear from them. My address is still USS Tinosa (SS 283) FPO, San Francisco, California, although I will be here at Treasure Island until August. 
From JOHN A. KNORR: "My wiic and I are the proud parents of two boys, Jolin Edward who is almost 3 years old, and Stephen James who is almost one year old. As for myself, I have worked in the Brown-Brockmeyer Company in plants at Dayton, Ohio, and Washington, Ohio, as Inspector of electrical motors and also Chief Inspector. I am presently with the W. T. Grant Company as Assistant Manager doing merchandising and retail store operation in training for a store management. 
BE COPY-CATS!! 
Well, s'Jong for now. I already sent my check for $1 dues to RAY BADDUR several days ago, and I ask that you do likewise, NOW. 
CHARLIE BARTLETT, '46, is studying Spanish at the University of Mexico in preparation for entering foreign service. 
1947 
REUNION REGISTRANTS SAM ADELO, JOHN BEAURIVAGE, BILL BROWN, ED CAPARO, MORGAN CARTIER, PAUL CEDERWALL, JIM CLAUSS, JOHN DIL­LON, JOE DnTRICH, JOHN DUNLEAVY, A. 
F. EARLEY, JOHN EGAN, DAN EICH, DON FISHER, JOHN FREEMAN, E. J. FRERICKS, JACK GALLOWAY, FRANK GIORDANO, PAUL GOOOLLEI, BOB GORSKI, T»f GREEN, JIM 

'GRIFFIN, REV. WILLIAM HAMILTON, GENE KANE, VINCE KEDEL, CHARLIE KOEGLER, THEODORE KROELL, VINCE LAURITA, JOHN LILL, BILL McCORMICK, D. J. McGRATH, JOHN MARTIN, ELMER MILLIMAN, ED MUELLER, JIM MURPHY, JACK MYERS, TOM NIQUETTE, PATRICK NOLAN, E. G. O'CON­NOR, PAUL QUALY, PETER RUCANO, JIM SHERIDAN, JIM SIMON, FRANK SZYMANSKI, NICK VINCELLI, J. W. WAYNO, JOHN WELCH, BOB WELSH, BOB WHITE, J. L. WIL­LENBRINK, JR., AND MIKE YARBENET. 
CAPTAIN ROBERT J. McKAY U now located at 915 S. Bemiston St., Clayton 5, Missouri. 
T. VINCENT OPPENHEIM, formerly of Cold-water, Ohio, is Manager of Research with the ad­vertising agency of Botsford, Constantinc and Gar­diner of San Francisco. 
THOMAS J. MANGAN, JR., '47, was graduated May 30 from the American Institute for Foreign Trade at Thundcrbird Field, PhocnLv, Arizona. Specializing in Spanish, in preparation for a career in American business abroad, he has been employed by Sterling Products International, in their Latin-American di\*ision. 
JOHN G. NECKERMAN, who graduated from Missouri University after matriculating at Notre Dame, now is in Virginia with the Army OSf, but expects to be home soon. 

SGT. ROBERT MULCAHY, '47, recently was appointed to a Character Guidance Council at the NalibolIenbacTi "Quartermaster Depot in the Frencli zone of Germany. The council is a group formed by the army to encourage the growth of moral responsibility, spiritual values and self-discipline among army personnel. 
JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, M.D., who attended Notre Dame from March, 1943, to November, 1943, and from February, 1946, to June, 1946, was grad­uated recently from the Crcighton University School of Medicine. 

The first man of '47 to register was JOHN ROBINSON of Bellaire, Ohio. The gayest '47 fourMime consisted of JI.M SHERIDAN, CHARLIE KOEGLER, J.ACK DILLON, and JOE DITTRICH, all of New York and Wcinit>-. 
The following were elected class officers to ser^'e until the next five-year reunion: SAM ADELO, South Bend, president; FR.ANK "JUDGE" SZY­MANSKI, Detroit, vice-president; .MIKE YAR­BENET, Erie, Pa., treasurer; JIM MURPHY, In­dianapolis, secretary'. 
Tlie class was honored to have at its reunion FATHER WILLIAM HAMILTON, of Houston, Texas. On Saturday morning Father Hamilton offered Mass in Dillon Chapel for the deceased members of the Class of '47: WILLIAM PATRICK DELANEY, JR., and CLARE CHARLES LESER. 
JOHN DUNLEA\'Y, with the FBI in Detroit, and ELMER MILLIMAN, General Motors, checked in for the reunion on Saturday morning. JOHN LILL and his wife, Jean, both attended reunions, with Jean spending tile weekend over at St. Mary's. The lads who played golf Saturday afternoon spent more time at the strategically located beer sta­tions than on the tees or greens. It was reported that it took JOHN R. WELCH live hours to play nine holes. BOB WELCH, of Milwaukee, was also on hand. Representing South Bend were BILL 
WISHING and JACK FREEMAN. Bill travels for a pharmaceutical house. Throughmit the weekend those attending the re­union sported brown caps with gold '47 numerals. The lads marveled at the Morris Inn, noted new Fisher Residence Hall just west of the Dmmg Hall, and poked through the Nieuwland Science Center and the Liberal and Fine Arts Building wliich are still under construction. Oh yes, a new watchman's house—heardly a shanty—is being built at the Circle. Not too long ago Sacred Heart Church was redecorated and tlie Grotto is as lovely and peaceful as ever. Among those wlio attended our reunion in addi­tion to the above were: TONY EARLEY, JIM CLAUSS, JOHN EGAN, VINCENT KADEL, BOB GORSKI, JACK GALLOWAY, JERRY WAYNO, MORGAN CARTIER, ED MUELLER and ED O'CONNOR. In our ofKcial reunion photo you might also look for JOHN BEAURIVAGE, JOE MLLEN­BRINK, FRANK GIORDANO, JOHN MARTIN, ED FRERICKS, BOB ^VHITE, GENE KANE, NICK VINCELLI, DAN EICH, PAUL QUALY, JIM SIMON, PAT NOLAN, VINCE LAURITA, BILL BRO»VN, and TOM NIQUETTE. At the Saturday evening banquet JIM ARM­STRONG saluted the Class of '47, declaring tliat it had a remarkable turn-out for the five-year class. In 1937 let's fill at least a third of the Dining Hall. Marine Captain JACK LAUCK has been wounded twice since his call to duty in Korea. Jack had already been awarded two Purple Hearts as a result of his ser^-ice in World War II. How about wTiting Capt. John H. Lauck, D Company, 2nd Battalion, 1st Marine Division, F.P.O. San Francisco, California? Visited with DAVE KORTY on a Sunday after­noon late in June. Dave's mother had been seriously ill, but is now much improved. He is as­sociated with the Lafayette (Ind.) Loan and Trust Company. Among the newl^-weds are Mr. and Mrs. JOE EMOND. Joe recently married the former Jo­sephine VanGogh and lives at 615 East 16th Street, Apt. 10, Vancouver, Washington. Your Secretary expects to spend a couple of weeks in New York the latter part of August and hopes to renew many Notre Dame friendships there. In the meantime, drop me a card letting your classmates knoiv where you arc and what you are doing five years after graduation. There were about forty of us at the reunion, but there are more than 750 on the 1947 class roster. So let me hear from you soon, won't you? Until then, best wishes for a ver\' pleasant summer. JIM MURPHY 
5 YEAR REUNION 
JUNE 12-13-14 

Herman A. Zitt, Secy. 
126 Farmside Dr. 
Dayton, Ohio 
REUNION REGISTRANT JOHN FEAD JOHN F. DEE was recently appointed head basketball coach at the University of Alabama. 
EDWARD S. CIPRUS of Toledo, Ohio, recently received the degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery from the Western Reser\'c University School of Dentistr>'. 
JAMES F. WELTER recently resigned his posi­tion at Kings College and has joined the Firestone "Hrc and Rubber Company in Akron, Ohio, as a research physicist in the Defense ResearcJi Depart­ment. His address is 257 Davenport Ave., Akron 12, Ohio. 
ROBERT H. BACH married MUs Jane Shea at the Church of St. Thomas in Minneapolis, April 
26. He is now a sales engineer with the Minne­apolis-Honey^vcll Regulator Company in Dcs Moines, Iowa. His address is 47-D Wakanda Village, Des Motnes, Iowa. 
CHARLES EBNER dropped us a card to tell us that he received his M.D. degree from Wayne 
The Motre Dame Chemists' recent meetii^ in ^fiKnMlkec 
University in June. Then it's the Army for Charlie 
for two years, the Brst being spent interning at 
Letterman Armv Hospital in San Francisco. 
LT. CHARLES S. TROTTER, »48, is in Korea 
with the Marines. His address is: Lt. Chas. S. 
Trotter, 053417, A Co. 1st Bn. 1st Regt., 1st Mar. 
Div., F.M.F. Pac, c/o FPO, San Francisco, 
California. 
AVILLIAM J. CAHILL, M.D., '48, recently re­
ceived his degree from the Northwestern, University 
Medical School. 
HARRV D. MOSIER, JR., '48, also received his 
M.D. recently, from the Medical School of Johns Hopkins University. 
WILLIAM H. RUSSELL, JR., '48, is now a trainee for the State Department in Washington, 
D. C. His address is: 3200 19th St. N. W., Wash­ington, D. G. 
VINCENT P. HUGHES was recently married 
to Joan Catherine Fitz of Sandusky, Ohio. He 
will complete work for his M.D. this year at 
Ohio State University. 
FRANK KEENAN, '48, is on the staff of Senator 
Tobcy of New Hampshire. His address is: Senate 
Office Bm'Iding, Room 138, Washington, D. C. 
JAMES P. ROTCHFORD, '48, is a Junior in 
the School of Medicine of Georgetown University. 
His address is: 113 Highview Drive, Alexandria, Va. 
JOSEPH L. O'BRIEN, '48, recently received his Ph.D. in Chemistry- and Animal Physiology from the California Institute of Technology. 
1949 
John P. Walker, Secy. 
135 S. LaSallc St. 
Chicago, III. 
GUS SWEENEV and X had an impromptu meet­ing on Clark St., the other day. Gus was boning up for a bar exam. He tells me that PETE BRO^VN is also working for a local ad agency. 
Jinve a ivhoJe bag full of mail this time. JOE PIEDMONT %sTitcs: ".. . after a brief fling in the newspaper business, I entered the field of in­dustrial publications and am ser\'ing as assistant editor of the Norfolk and Western Railway maga­zine in Roanoke, Va. .. . I hear from PHIL SHEA, he's now a proud father. I also have seen in the past months JIMMY SMITH and RUDY DiTRAPANO in Norfolk. Rudy was get­ting settled in the Naty there and Smitty \**as wearing an Air Force uniform. . . . RAY CHA&I­BERLAND will be coaching again at St. Paul's in Portsmouth next year." 
And from GEORGE PATFERSON comes this pleasant news: 
*'I just thought I would drop you a line and let you know that I am the proud papa of a boy, George Allen Patterson III, born on July 2. I married Lorraine Schuster of Chicago last August. 
NOLAN SHEEHAN writes from Tulsa that his son, William Nolan Sheehan III, was bom in September. 
LEO J. VOGEL, JR., recently returned from Tokyo where he was stationed with the Finance Corps and expects to be out of the Army in September. 
PHIL JENSEN received a commission as 2nd Lt. in the Transportation Corps and is attending the Transportation School at Ft. Eustis, Va. 
T. FRANK NOVAK is expecting to return to civilian status this September after serving ten months in Korea with the Adjutant General's Corps at the 8th Army headquarters. 
FRANCIS FORTON, BOB MAHONEY and J M 
PRESLEY arc all in the service and waiting, 
patiently, for separation. 
BERNIE POWERS has a baby boy and is doing 
coaching in Toronto, Ontario. 
BOB McCOY was commissioned as 2nd Lt. io 
the Artillery at Fort Riley, Kansas. 
' PAT KENNY is presently studying for the priest­
hood at the Jesuit Nontiate in Shmdan, Oregon. 
MARTIE SODETZ and JOE ROZIER are both 
employed wnth their dads, and my spies tell me 
that they are both doing well as jtmior excoittves. 
Joe has two baby girls. 
RAPHAEL MULROY, recently the father of a 
girl, is working for the Dept. of Internal Revenue. 
PAT MEEHAN recently announced the birth of 
a baby girl. 
On the sUtionery of the Military Sea Transpor­
tation Service and bearing the postmark of Sraul, 
Korea, is this note from GFRAf.T) LAWSON: 
"I was recalled to active duty the first of 
August in '51 and have been in Korea since the 
first of June this year. Before recall I was study­
ing law at Georgetown University in Washington. 
JOHN GUDDIE writes from Milwaukee that he 
was recalled into the Army for a stay of three 
months. While in service John met » fdlow Notre 
Dame man, CAPT. FRANK V. CIOUNO, '40. 
On the 21st of June an old neighbor of mine in Dillon HaU, Pat Hughes, now DR. VINCENT PATRICK HUGHES, was married to Miss Joan Fits in Sandusky, Ohio. 
FRANK R. HARTY has recently signed a coach­
ing contract with the St. John Cantius High 
School, Cleveland, Ohio. 
NICHOLAS SALVATORE DeSIMONE received 
his LL.B., June 15, at St. John's University, 
Brooklyn, New York. 
ERIC J. SCOTT, a graduate of the civil en­gineering department, is now serving with the army engineers overseas. 
—JACK MURPHY, '49 

ROBERT L. PTTCHFORD, JR., '49, now with the General Insurance Co. of America, hopes to open his own insurance ofikc in 1953. lEs ad­dress is now 1720 Upper Terrace, Spokane, Wash­ington. 
JOHN T. CLARK. '49, has accepted a position with the Bauer & Black Company of Chicago, as asssitant to the credit manager. 
CHARLES DRAINE, '49, is on active duty with the U. S. Navy. 
BERNARD J. BEDARD, '49, has a teaching fellowship at the University of Michigan, and is working for his Doctorate. His address b: 2133 Ridge Road, Kalamazcm, Mich. 
LOUIS J. BURNS, JR., is now Assistant to the President of the Public Relations and Govern­mental Research firm of Coates and McCormick. Inc. 
1950 
2nd Lt. Jolin F. Connor, USMC Sen-ice Bn., Marine Corps Schools 
Qiundco, Va. 
TOM McNAIXV, '49, is working for the United Press in Omaha, Nebraska. His present address is 316 N. 41st St., in Omaha. 
OWES V. LAYDEN, '50, of McAIester, Okla­homa, is now in the Amnr Sicnal Corps Lab at Fort Monmouth, N. J. DON MUUHY, '49. is also stationed at Fort Monmouth working on a 
July-August, 1952 49 
radio team that travels around to the Army camps demonstrating the newest Signal Corps equipment. If all goes well, Don will be discharged Sept. 25, just in time for the football season. 
PAUI. BUCHYNSKY was last reported stationed 
at Fort Bliss, Texas, working on an electronic 
project with the Army. 
BOB MURPHY was married on .April 14th, 
1952 to Dorothy MuIloUy of St. Louis. Bob works 
for 'the Public Service Co. of Northern Illinois 
and is now living in Berwyn, 111., in the same 
building with BILL ROSEMEYER. Bill was 
married to Jean Marston last January and « 
working tor Commonwealth Edison Co. in Chicago. 
IVO FATIGATI, '48, works for the State De­
partment. He was driven out of Seoul, Korea, 
two years ago and is now attached to the Amer­
ican Consulate in Kuala Lumpur, Malaya, another 
not too quiet spot in the Far East. 
Another '48 grad, BILL 'WEILER, writes that his 
second child, a boy, arrived last December. The 
GEORGE SEEGERS arc awaiting the arri»-al of 
their first child in the near future as are the 
JOHN SLEVINS. 
DAVE MURPHY, '47, became a father for the 
first time last Fathers' Day. It was a little girl, 
Barbara Anne. Dave, by the way, was called back 
into the Navy several months ago. He is attaclicd 
to mine sweeping duty out of Norfolk. 
WILLIAM D. TAFEL is a special agent with 
the Air Force Office of Special Investigation at 
Tachikawa Air Base, just outside of Tokyo, Japan. 
His address is: Special Agent Wm. D. Tafel, Offi­
cer's MaU Room (OSI), APO 704, c/o P.M., San 
Francisco, California. 
REV. WILLIAM E. HAMILTON was ordained 
to the priesthood May 22, in LaPorte, Texas. He 
offered his first solemn Mass at St. Mary's Churdi, 
Houston. Texas. 
MR. ROBERT FORDE, JR., has notified us tliat 
he passed his California Bar Assodation exam in 
April, 1952, with a score of 96.45. 
mLLIAM R. SHULTS, '50, is in the army en­
gineers. His address is Pfc. W. R. SImlts, US, 
51054716, HQ CO HQ BN, 9829 TSU-CE-TECR­
ERDL, Ft. Bdroir, Va. 
RALPH W. RILEY, '50, recently received his 
M.D. from St. Louis University. 
REV. BERNARD D . McCARTHY, '50, has re­cently left the Air Corps. He is now at Mount Saint Mary's, Ddaware Avenue, Kenmore, New-York. 
RICHARD F. HAHN, '50, recently accepted the secretaryship of the 1950 dass, as JACK CONNOR, '50, expects to be sent overseas in the near future. Send your information to Dick from now on, dass of '50. By the way, he's with the Ford Motor Co. in Chicago, and his address is 5440 Winthrop Ave. 
PFC. ROBERT G. RUETZ, '50, sailed with the 45th Olclahoma National Guard Div^ion from Japan to Korea in November, 1951. 
JOHN J. ELLIOTT, '50, is a member of the FBI, and has been stationed in Alabama for over a year. 
DICK LYONS, '50, is with the army in Germany. His address is: Cpl. R. E. Lyons, U. S. 51049425, HQ's Btry. I09th FA. BN., 28th Inf. Div. APO 111, c/o P. M., New York. 
ERNIE HUFFMAN, '50, is now married and working in Gary for the Chicago Motor Club. JERRY FREEMAN, '50, is studying tor his Ph.D. 
at the University of Illinois. 
FRANK STERMITZ, '50, received hb M.S. from Colorado University, and is' now working in Rahway, New Jersey. 
PETE WALSH, '50, is married and Uvcs at 15 Storms Ave., Jersey City, N. J. 
COLIN MacKAY was studying for his Ph.D. at the University of Chicago, but the navy recalled him to active duty. 
JIM FISHER, '50, is working for American Cyanamid, Stamford, Conn., after receiving his 
M.S. from Holy Cross. JACK FINNEGAN, '50, is a meat inspector for the army in a Los Angeles plant. BILL O'OONNELL, '50, was recently married, and IS now sweating out a call from the navy. 
JOSEPH E. mcKEY , '50, is in Yokohama, busy forming the Notre Dame Club of Japan. He reports seeing HUGH MULLIGAN, '50, who has since gone on to Korea. 
OLU E CELUSTA, '50, is in his Senior vear of law school at Notre Dame 
JOHN MoSHANE. '50, is in Columbus, Ga. He and Mrs. McShane were recently blessed with a son, Kevin. 
The Hon. Joseph Scott of Los Angeles, who lectured recently at the University. 
DICK VOLLSTEDT, '50, and his wife Donna 
have a son, Richard Francis. Dick is now working 
with his father v%-ith the Vollstedt Lumber Company. 
DON LUECK, '50, a Junior Management assist­ant appointee in 1950 after receiving his M.A. in Public Administration from the University of Chi­cago, is now located in Washington, D. C. His address is: D.C.P.D. Training Branch, Main Navy Building, Room 1109, Washington, D. C. 
GERRY GRIESMER finished his work at M.I.T. in January, and is now employed by the Linde Air Products Company at their Tonawanda labora­tor>'. He plans to be married in the fall. 
TOM GARRETT also graduated from M.I.T. in January, and is now with DuPont's Explosives Department (Atomic Energy Division) near Terre Haute, Ind. He is allowed to reveal that he's in the technical section, but not much else. Tom's address is 907 S. Seventh, Terre Haute, Indiana. 
VAL REISIG (9710 TSU—Cml C. Det 2, Aimy Chemical Center, Maryland} recently collaborated with another fellow to write, direct and produce an all-soldicr show. 
MEL THORNTON is in the Purchasing Depart­ment of U. S. Gypsum Co. He was married in June of '51 and a son, Thomas, was bom this past April. His address is 6354 N. Paulina, Chicago, HI. . GEORGE OORWINE is at General Electric's silicone plant in Waterford, New York, where he's employed as a process engineer. After additional training he hopes to return to instrument sales in Lynn. His address is 405 Hidett St., Schenectady, New York. 
The last heard from JOHN GALLAGHER, in Febntary, he was doing petro-chemical sales work for Sindair. JOE HARKINS is still working for General Foods, and expects his law degree from St. John's next June. JOHN RENTSCHLER is employed by Ohio Rubber in Willoughby. 
AUGIE GENTILUCCI (USS TimbaUcr (AVP 
54) c/o F.P.O., New York, New York) is now attached to the Timbalier, stationed in Panama. He was recently promoted to Lt. (j.g.). 
DOM ANGELINI is doing research for Colum­bia Mills, working with polymers, paints, dyes and textiles. His address is 101 W. Sixth St., Oswego, New York. 
LEO WEISBECKER is with the Catalyst De­velopment Section of the Hydrocarbon Conversion Branch of the Research Division of the Research and Development Department of the Phillips Petro­leum Company. As Leo writes, "that's a lot of bosses." 
JOHN O'REILLY is still working for the Public Service Company of Northern Illinois, and is noi' 
back in Evanston laying out work for the mamte­
nance of the distribution system. (6525 N. St. 
Louis, lincolnwood.) 
BILL GORDON (366 Summer St., Lynn 3, 
Mass.) is still with General Electric's Thompson 
Laboratories in Lynn. JIM CARBERRY is with 
DuPont's Eastern Laboratory at Gibbstown, N. J. 
Rumor has it that JEAN KREUZ is at Whiting, 
with Standard Oil of Indiana. FRANCIS PALL is 
still with Monsanto in St. Louis. 
JOHN PATTERSON was in SaUburg, Austria, 
at last word. His address was Hq. USFA, c/o 
G-2 Section, A.P.O. 168, c/o Postmaster, New 
York, N. Y. BOB WECHSLER is also in the 
army, and so is CARL MAAG, who is stationed 
at the Army Chemical Center. 
1951 
Robert J. Klingenbergcr, Secretary 
1B32 M Street, N. W. 
WadiiagtoD, D. C. 
From TOM CARROLL: 
**A few weeks ago I had a 14-day vacation, and 
of course I headed west for Long Beach, California. 
TOM SHEEHAN and his brother. Jack, joined 
the sojourn and wc really had a great time. 
Along the way we saw Yellowstone Park, Reno, 
San Francisco, Las Vegas and Boulder Dam. 
•*Thc first night out wc stopped in Somonauk, 
Illinois, at GERRY KERNS* home. Gerry was in 
transit from the Coast Guard Academy to his 
first assignment as an ensign. His address is: 
ENS, G. A. KERNS, CG 83484, Port Townsend, 
Washington. 
••While at home I saw BOB and JOHNNIE 
THOMPSON. The newlyweds were on their way 
to San Diego where 'Hooker' will be stationed 
with the Marines. 
"Here in South Bend I ran across BILL SIMP­
SON the other day. It was the first time I had 
seen him since graduation, and I was surprised to 
learn that he has been working at Studcbaker*s in 
the Branch Accounting Dept. for some time. He 
was nurried recently and makes South Bend his 
home at 938 West LaSallc. 
"WALLY CLEMENTS is at home (623 Park 
Avenue, South Bend) for the summer and is work* 
ing as a mai1«nan in tKu typical American city. 
He is hoping to go to law school next year. 
"DAN FINN is hoping to do the same next se­
mester and meanwhile lives at 438 Howard St.j 
here in South Bend. 
"JACK MULDOON and CHARLES GOHN stopped by school the other day. Charley is home on furlough minus about twenty pounds. 'Jocko' is job hunting in his spare time since his law itujies were suspended for some strange reason at the end of last semester. 
".^M SCHMITT spent a 25-day leave at home in Pittsburgh. On his return to the U.S.S. Man­diester in San Frandsco, he dropped by the in­stitution here. 
"DICK BIARSHALL also appeared on the scene the Week-end ckf July 18th. He is working in South Chicago for the summer and living in Hammond, Indiana. 
"There have been some nunors around that JOHN MOORE was stationed in England, but my qK«naI agents tell me that he is back at Langley Field, Virginia. 
"I hope to see a few of the boys at PAUL KOMORA's wedding on August 2nd. He is mar­rying Martha Nicholson here at Sacred Heart Chnrdi and is using the Morris Inn for the re­ception. It is sure good to report that Paul is almost conqiletely recovered from the auto accident he was in last June. 
'The truce talks must be progressing better than we are told for our General Staff apparently thinks all danger is over. JOHN HALEY was accepted in the Marine Corps Officer Training Program in July. His address is: PVT. JOHN A. HALEY, JR.. U.S.M.C.R., 135-05-21. Howe Co., 4tlt Platoon, Third Training Battalion Baste School, Camp Upshur, M.C.S,, Quantico, "X^rginia. Gung ho! 
"A/2c CLAYTON GLASGOW, with a long fur­lough and on his way to hometown Memphis, stopped in the Alumni Office July 23. Looking as healthy as ever, he left word that he was being sent to Iceland soon. He pronmed to send his new adklress in to this column as soon as he finds it out. 
'*'IJEO BRENNAN, who will receive his M.A. in Political Science in August (and an assignment with the Air Force), and I traveled down to Louisville recently where we stayed with BILL ANHUT, his wife, Mary Claire, and one-month-old Bill, Jr. Pop Anhut is still stationed at Godman 

A.F.B. in Louisville, and the three of them arc livins 3* '30 West Ormsby. Also stationed at Godman is DAVE SCHOEN. PHIL FINNEGAN joined lis all down there. He is working for the Owens Illinois Glass Co. in their southern diwsion and really likes his job. You can see that the ingredients for a 6ne party a-la-Anhut were there, and the results added up to a terrific time had by all. 
"While in Loubville, Leo and I \*is)tcd Mr. and Mrs. Kelly, the parents of BILL KELLY. They gave us all the late scoop on their son. Bill, whose address is: PVT. W. P. KELLY, JR., US 2158175, Region IV, 66th CIC Oct., APO 407-A, c/o Post­master, Nciv York, Nc»v York. BJIl is in Munich and is in the same unit as BILL HOSCHEIDT. The two were together in training, shipped over together, and arc both doing the same work in Munich. 
"I will close this epistle with a few quotes from the last letter the Kellys received to explain what Bill is doing over there: 
" 'Well, my first week at my new post was nicely interrupted by a holiday week-end. It w-as a nice way to break in on my first assignment. I have a 'specialist' job in the File Room for a while. We are at the tail end of the investigation proceedings and my work is interesting temporary* duty. 
" *Thc holiday week-end was spent in seeing a bit of Munich—finding the good eating places and beer halls (14 percent)—and going swimming. The weather has been so hot that this is the only thing to do. I have been going to a pool located nearby, as have a lot of Germans. They are just like any American people at a beach (bathing beauties, et al.) and the kids splash as much as our Louis\ille bra:s. What amazes me most about these Gennan people is their intelligence—even the little kids can speak Gennan . . . !!!' " 
JOHN TANNONE, JR., writes that he is with Armstrong-Norwalk Rubber Corp., in Norwalk, Conn., ser\'ing as Ass't. Personnel Manager and Industrial Sports Director. PAT TANNONE is Ass't. Import and Export Traffic Manager for the 
G. R. Coleman & Co., Inc. In his letter he says, "If there are any boys from the Midwest coming East for a visit, tell them ,to be sure to bring their golf clubs. Pat an'd I have been out on the links qui:c a bit and would welcome some Midwest competition." Their address is 12 Park Avenue, Port Chester, N. Y. 
Mrs. Taylor informs me that Hoby's new ad­dress is: PVT. EUGENE HOBAN TAYLOR. US 551&4468, Co., 10th Eng. Bn., 3rd Inf. Division, 
A.P.O. 468—c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. ED SULLIVAN, Hnng at 79 Taylor, Detroit 2, Michigan, writes tliat he and JOE NAUGHTON arc working as students in the Chrysler Institute. Ed writes, ".. . so far nothing exciting or ro­mantic has happened to either of us." Ed further reports that AL JENICEK writes that GENE DiBARTOLI was on campus for the Old Timer's game and that JIM JENNINGS has been discharged from the Navy and is working for Motorola in Chicago. Ed sa>-s that he spent a pleasant evening with BOB LOEBLE, (an Engr. prof in our days) who is now with the American Blower Co. VINCE RAUTH, at 1735 W. Boston, is working with an architectural firm in Detroit and doing all right. Ed slates that RALPH SJOBERG is now engaged, but that all the details must come from Ralph. In a P.S., Ed asks what has liappcncd to RAY YANCIS; that's a question only Ray can answer. 
Received a letter from HARVEY O'NEILL, still 
at 2915 Pembroke Road, Toledo, Ohio, who reports 
that TOM MOORMAN is now the father of an 
ND potential, and is working with Packard. It 
is Hari'cy's presumption tliat TED CHRISTOPHER, 
his old roomie, after finishing a year at Michigan 
Med School is back at the race track for the 
summer. Har\e reports that he attended CHUCK 
PAULER's wedding as best man on June 28th. 
Chuck graduated in February, and has been offi­
cially accredited to our class. Welcome, Chuck. 
Harve's P.S.: "Happy to hear from any of the 
boys." 
ENS. R. G. BIRMINGHAM, 510759, U.S.S. 
Rendo\-a CVE-114, c/o A.P.O. — San Francisco, 
Calif.—is still roaming the Pacific and writes that 
he saw LARRY CLARK on the U.S.S. Winston 
(AKA 93) at Pearl and that he is due back at 
San Diego, soon. FRANK BEITER is in Marine O.C.S. at Quantico. JACK DUNLEVY aboard the U.S.S. Ajax, and TOM MEYERS on the £1 Dorado were last seen in San Diego. Dick further reports that ROB MARGET is ivith the Quarter­master Corps in the Korean area, QUINT MAR­LOWE is operating out of Norfolk on a destroyer, JACK BODOLAY was called from the reserve and ended up in Bainbridge, AL WARD aboard the 
U.S.S. Boxer, recently returned from Korea, and AL ABBEY is still aboard the U.S.S. Wright. JOE RIGALI, after writing nightly for four years, married Miss Jean McMahon last Saturday, July 
12. Congratulations, Joe. 
DENNY RADFORD is reported to be at New­port, R. I. 
I got up to Philly a couple of weeks ago and saw TOM MULLEN, who is doing real well wilh the Piasccki Helicopter Corp., and learned that HANK MADDEN is teetering on that old patri­otic line while BOB EDMONDSON is tripping the light elastic in N.Y.C. BILL CAREY, now serv­ing in the Atlantic Fleet Is expecting a transfer to tile Naval Public Relations divbion. Tom, by the way, is now engaged to Jean Cogan, who graduated from St. Mary's of the Woods this year. 
JOHN MOORE was up from Langley Field for a weekend in D. C. and we all enjoyed ourselves out at Boiling Air Base Officers Club. Thanks, John. 
ED MCCARTHY, *50, had been making it into 
D. C. quite often while he was stationed at Camp Pickett, but now Ed has gone almost home to Fort Custer, Michigan. I know many of our class remember him well. 
It has been reported that Democrats JIM BATES, JOE ROSSEAU, BILL NORTON, and BILL COONEY attended the JefTerson-Jackson Day Dinner and later mingled at a Cocktail party given by H. S. T. 
This Saturday, July I9th, DICK McDONALD is marr>-ing Joey Bryan in Aurora, and I hope to pick up a good deal of substance at this aff ^ for the next issue. 
LEO F. SUPPLE is no^%• stationed in Japan with the armed forces. 
ARTHUR LUPINSKI reports that he likes his \vork with the Hazeltine Electronics Corporation. Art will be busy this fall with graduate work at Brooklyn Polytcchnical Institute, plus caring for his new son. 
JOSEPH G. BURGER has completed his first year of medicine at the Pittsburgh Medical School. 
JOSEPH S. DURKIN was recalled to the Marine Corps ver>' unexpectedly, and on short notice in January*. His address is: CAPT. JOSEPH S. DUR­KIN, USMCR, Marine Corps Air Detachment, Naval Air Station, Willo^v Grove, Pennsylvania. 
The engagement of ARTHUR O. UNSKEY, '51, and Miss Clarice Molcnda was solemnized and blessed in a betrothal ceremony at Notre Dame on July 27. He received his Mas'.cr of ArU in Education from Notre Dame, and is now head of the English and speech departments at Gibbons Hall, a boys' school in Ashevillc, North Carolina. 
RICHARD G. BIRMINGHAM, *51, now in the na\-y, has this address: USS Rendova (CVE-114) c/o Fleet Post Office, San Francisco, California. 
JAMES R. CARR, who is studying medicine, lives at 910 Alberton Ave., Hamilton, Ohio. 
DONALD E. DINEEN, '51, is in the navy and is stationed with the fleet in Naples. Just re­cently he had an audience with the Holy Father. All communications to him should be addressed 
•106 W. Elm St., Brockton, Mass. NORMAN BRO^VN, '51, recently sailed for 
Pearl Harbor. His address is: USS LST 836, c/o F.P.O., S«an Francisco, California. 
JAMES JANSEN, '51, recently received his M.A. in geology from Bryn Mawr College, and is now working on a mineral synthesis program at the 
U. S. Geological Sur\ey's Trace Elements Lab­oratory. 
CHARLES F. MURPHY, JR., '51, is in the na\T stationed at the Buckley Air Field, Denver, Colorado. 
CARL EIFERT, '51, was recently awarded an assistant graduate fellowship in journalism at Mar­quette University. He began the 10-month grant in summer school. 
DONALD PATRICK SCHILDER, M.D., who entered Georgetown after six semesters at Notre Dame, recently was graduated from that University'. 
F LASH! Class secretaries arc listed incmrectly in the 1937 (page 44) and 1990 (page 49) news columiis. Lettefi sfaoald be addressed to: 
1937 Paol Fokr. Vice-Flresideiit, MacManus, John and Adams, Inc., Ftsfcer ButlduK, Detroit 2, Midi. 
1950 Ridurd F. Haha, 5440 North Winthrop, CUcagD, HI. 
GEORGE J. CHOPP. '51, was released from ac­tive duty with the Marine Corps, and his address is now 2001 N. Wood Ave., Roselle, New Jersey. 
ENSIGN GERALD A. KERNS, '51, was recently commissioned in the U. S. Coast Guard Reserve, after completion of a four-month course at the Coast Guard Academy, New London, Conn. After a short leave, he reported for active duty. 
CPL. ROBERT G. ENGEL, '51, recenUy was awarded the Combat Infantryman Badge for ex­cellent performance of duty in Korean combat with the 7th infantry division. The badge, a symbol of the front-line fighting man, distin­guishes the combat solflier from rear area and service troops. He was promoted to corporal after receiWng the decoration, and is now an assistant squad leader. 
PHIL FINNEGAN, who was discharged from the navy several months ago, is now a sales trainee in the Glass Container Division of the Owens-Illinois Glass Company, Toledo, Ohio. 
Another '51 grad address: SGT. THO&L\S P. MEANEY. 1201942 U.S.M.C.R., 2nd Pit. "N" Co. 5th Basic School, Marine Corps School, Quaatico, Va. 
ROBERT A. WOLFE, '52, has accepted a posi­tion with the McBec Company. He will undergo a brief training period in Athens, Ohio, and then will be permanently stationed in Washing­ton, D. C. 
FRANK AMATO, '52, a January grad, has signed as bead coach of football and basketball at the Norfolk, Va., Catholic High school. 
DONALD G. DIEBOLD was married to Nancy Aim Di«-ycr in Louis\'ille, June 21. Don plans to enter the Louisville School of Medicine in Sep­tember. 
JOHN H. POWERS has become a member of 
the development department of the Monsanto 
Chemical Company plant in Afonsanto, 111. 
A letter from TOM KELLEGHA N furnishes'us with his present address at The Town House, 20th and 8th St. S., Bimungham, Alabama. A corporal in the M-P's, he hopes to get out of the service sometime before November. Tom is one of our more silent classmates, but maybe this letter has broken the ice and we'll hear more from him in the future. 
PHILLIP A. FINNEGAN, Three Rivers, Mich., has joined Owens'Illinois Glass Co., Toledo, O. He is being trained as a salesman in the glass con­tainer division. 
Aug.rSept.. 1952 

Mr. Edsard J. Tracsy Jr 1-*./ lyid jsoaloburg Rd 
State College, Pa. 
Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents 
.ARIZONA—PAocnit—John G. O'Mallcy, Jr., '36, 1621 E. 11th Ave. Tucson—F. Edward Larkin, '44, 2117 E. Copper. 
ARK.ANSAS—For/ Smith—^. DuVal Johnston, '37, 925 Garrison. 
a\UFORNI.A—BoArrj/iWrf-Brj-an J. Coleman, '40, 2536 Alder St. Los .4 ns<-/fi—Robert K. Kellcy, '34, 145 S. 
Spring St., Rm. 712, Los Angeles, Calif. 
A'or/Acrn-Robert A. Tar\er, '49, Suite 3, 1217-A Burlingame Ave., Burlingame, CaliL. San BiVjo—Winfield S. Day, '36, Rt. 1, Box 817, 
LaMesa. 

COLORADO—Dcnrcr—Thomas J. Gargan, '49, 645 Pontiac St., Denver. CONNECTICUT—Conn<rc(iVu( Valley — David C. 
Bagley, '42, 739 Main Street, Hartford. 'Haugttluck—Ti. Frank Mumane, '32, 107 Farm­inglo/1, Walerbury­5oul/i:t'"l<!rn—Frands J. Herb, '37, 1490 North .Avenue, Bridgeport. 

DELAWARE—Arthur A. Baum, '36, 223 Champlain A«. , Bellcinoore, Wilmington, Del. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—Gaylord P. Haas, '29, 1303 N. Edgewood St., Arhngton, Viisinia. 
FLORIDA—Fori LauderdaU—]3mcs A. Evert, '48, 715 N. E. 17lh Ave., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. Greater Miami—^Jerome P. Holland, '30, 318 
N. E. IMth St. North Florida—John F. Lanahan, '43, P. O. Box 1679, Jacksonville. 
GEORGIA—^(ionte—WiUiam E. Beckley, '34, 3249 Wood Valley, Rd., N. W., Atlanta. IDAHO—Paul L. Kohout, '25, 1722 Washington St., Boise. ILLINOIS—Aurora—William B. Chaw-go, "31, .'>22 Lehneru .Ave., Aurora, HI. 
Central Illinois—Thomas Vicars, '36, 134 North 
Clenwood, Springfield, IlJinois. CAiVofo-Luke J. Ticrnan, '37, 495 Willow Rd., Winnetka, 111. Eastern Illinois—John Meyer, '42, 1314 Franklin, OanviUe. Fox Valley—George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit, Elgin. Joliet—John R. Minzing, '48, 255 Wilcox St., Joliet, III. Pcorio—Bernard J. Ghiglieri, '44, 1st National 
Bank BIdg., Peoria. Rock River TaHo—Jos;ph 11. Bittorf, '33, 1411 First Ave., Sterling, Illinois. 

IN'DIAN.A—Co/umeJ Dij/rirl-William J. Riley, '38, 4302 Magoun, East Chicago, Indiana. Eastern /nAono—Frederick E. Watson, '25, 116"/; 
E. Main St., Munde, Indiana. EconjiiVfc-Robert W. Hargravc, '42, 532 Soutli Boeke Rd., Evansville. 
Fort ICayne—Roy E. Grimmer, Jr., '45, 4722 S. Park Drive. Indianapolis—Edgar C. McNamara, '44, 1112 E. Kessler Blvd., Indianapolis, Ind. Michigan City—Dr. Cyril J. Vojak, '37, 403 Warren BIdg., Michigan City, Indiana. 
St. Joseph Valley—Vzu\ Fergus, '35, 337 E. 
Summers Dr., South Bend, Indiana. Wabash FoH«)-—Balfe Wagner, '27, 603 Kossuth St., Lafayette, Indiana. 

IOWA—D« Moines—Vitd Nesbit, Jr., '43, c/o Fred Nesbit Distributing Co., Ill 5th Ave.. Des Moines. Dubuque—Nicholas J. Sutton, '43, 1700 North Algona. SiouX'Land—Edward Simonich, '39^ 1605 Main St., Sioux City. Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, E. Moline)—Edmund J. Meagher, '21, 1513 24th St., Rock Island, Illinois. 
KANSAS—Eastern—Judge Joseph J. Dau-es, '26, 420 Arch St., Leavenworth. KENTUCKY—William H. Hosier, '41, 310 -Mono­ban Dr., Louisville, Kentucky. LOUISIANA—ATeio Or/MM—William S. Smith, Jr., '46, 625 Hibemia Bank BIdg. 
Northern Louisiana—^Jamcs R. Novvery, '29, P. O. Box 1545, Shreveport 94. 

M.ARYL.\ND—Z!a(/imor<r—W. Gregory Halpin, '49, 224 Rodgcrs Forge Rd., Baltimore, Md. 
.\I.-\SSACHUSETTS—CoJ/on—John T. Burke, '29, 297 Chestnut St., Clinton, 'Mass. Pioneer Valley~]oha F. Shea, '06, 95 Lexington Ave., Holyoke, Mass. 
MICHIGAN—BfrriVn CoanO^William H. Downey, '28, 60 N. St. Joseph Ave., Niles. 
Blue Water Zlii/rW—William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Michigan Central—DT. Edgar J. Hermes, '21, 604 Willow, Lansing. Dearborn—CcrsW F. Sarb, '48, 23616 Hudson, Dearborn, Michigan. Detroit—Dan Henry, '35, 9751 Erwin Ave., De­troit 13, Mich. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—Edward 
G. McDermott, '39, 343 Ball Park Blvd., Grand Rapids, Michigan. Hiaxathaland—Br. Donald H. Boyce, '30, 1401 
S. First Ave., Escanaba, Michigan. Iron Hanj«—Robert T. O'Callaghan, '45, 635 McLeon Ave., Ironwood. Monroe—Thotaas E. Griffin, '33, 205 East 3rd St. 
Saginavu Valley—Harold V. Lappin, '32, 508 Mc-
Coskry St., Saginaw, Mich. 

MI.N'.NESOTA-Bu/ii/A-5uperior — Wm. E. Cotter, Jr., '41, 114 Laurie St., Duluth. Tain Ci/i«—Patrick A. Dougherty, '50, 50 S. Cretin Ave., St. Paul 5, Minn. 
•SnSSOVRl—Kansas C."/}—(Mo. and Kans.) Rich­ard J. Bowes, '38, 4537 Jefferson, Kansas City, Mo. 
Si. Louis—Joseph T Golobowski, '31, 203 Shell BIdg., St. Louis, Missouri. .MONT.ANA—Bernard Graiuey, '43, 801 12th Ave., Helena. 
NEBRASKA—Robert D. Welsh, '26, 959 S. 48th St., Omaha 6. 
NEW JERSEY—Leo J. Costello, '48, 19 Crooks Ave., Paterson 3, N. J. 
Central-Michael J. Balog, '34, 315 Watson Ave., Perth Amboy. 
South /tfrjo^—William A. McCormick, '47, 701 Wick Blvd., Woodbury, N. J. 

NEW YORK—jBii#a/o—Anthony Brick, '36, 65 Christiana St., Tonawanda, N. Y. Capital District—Dr. Bernard A. Duffy, '33, 336 New Scotland Ave., Albany, N. Y. Central—Edward W. Kenefake, *34, 525 Robineau Road, Syracuse, N. Y. 
Mid-Hudson Valley—Henry J. Fischer, '34, 197 
E. Chester St., Kingston. Mohawk Valley—l.oaK P. Clark, '31, 31 Whiles­boro St., Yorkville, New York. Neio York Cilj'—Herbert P. Giorgio, '32, 1691 Putnam Ave., RidgeWood, Queens, N. Y. Northern—^Joseph R. Brandy, '21, St. LawTence Broadcasting Corp., Ogdensburs, N. Y. Rochester—WaoT .A. DeSimon, '46, 79 Cali­fornia Dr., Rochester, New York. Schenectady—Frank M. Linehan, '45, 1257 Glen-wood Blvd., Schenectady, N. Y. 
Southern Tier—^Edwin Bonham, '09, 329 Hamilton St., Painted Post, N. Y. 
Triple Cities—Dr. J. Worden Kane, '26, 55 River­side Dr., Binghamton. 

OHIO—j«ron—Charies E. Greene, '41, 839 Ranney St. 
Conton—Charles J. Kennedy, '49, 1615 Cherrv Ave., N. E. 
Cinrinnali-William H. Grafc, Jr., '44, 3424 Sbaw Ave. C/c:;Wan</—James P. Colleran, '35, 19921 Beach Cliff Blvd., Rocky River, O. 
Co/um6iu—John D. Igoe, '28, 2454 Kensing­ton Rd., Columbus, Ohio. 
Da)/o«—Edward C. Steiner, Jr., '44, 827 W. Schantz Ave., Dayton 9. 
Hamilton—Judge Harry F. Walsh, '31, Munidpal Court. Ohio Valley—Ceorse J. Sargus, '28, No. 1 Oak Park, Wheeling, W. Va. £ani/iu;t)^AIfred A. Schnurr, Jr., '28, 3413 S. Coltmibus Ave. Tiffin—f ted J. Wagner. '29, 152 Sycamore St. Toledo—James Murtagh, '48, 3112 Kenwood Blvd., Toledo, O. FoBnej/oain-William G. Lyden, Jr., '50, 4805 Southern Blvd. 

OKLAHOMA—OWa/ioma Cily—Robert McFarland, '42, 4022 N. Mac;\rthur. Tu/ja—Charies L. McMahon, Jr., '42, 1605 Nt. Bk. of Tulsa BIdg., Tulsa, Oklahoma. OREGON—Oscar Quoidback, '48, 325 N.W. ISlh Ave., Portland. PENNSYLVANIA—Jdoona, Frank Holahan, '35, 521 Garber St., Holidaj'sburs, Pa. £ai/crn—Leo R. McIntvTC, '28, 3004 Turner St., 
Allentown. £rie—Joseph C. Barber, '36, 705 Ariel BIdg. Harrisburg—^Janies R. Graham, '26, 513 Colonial Rd., York, Pa. Monongahela Valley—^Adolph V. Capano, '26, 733 McKean Ave., Donora. 
Philadelphia—Joseph F. Cattle, '41, 6707 Crit­tenden St., Philadelphia 19. Pit/iiarj/i—Laurence R. Smith, '33, 1003 Park BIdg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
5<Ton/on—Gerard A. Purcell, '39, 901 Poplar St. irai«-Barre—Edward H. Gunster, '09, 338 N. Main Street. 
WilUamsport—William R. Downs, '08, 1013 Thompson St., Jersey Shore, Pa. 

RHODE ISLAND and S. E. MASSACHUSETTS— Russell L. Hunt, '38, 412 Providence St., Woon­socket, R. I. 
TENNESSEE—C/ia/(anoD£a—Thomas B. Owien, '35, 4115 Mayfair Ave. .J/cmpA.i-William J. TyTcll, '49, 2822 Kimball 
Ave., Apt. 3, Memphis, Tenn. 

TEXAS—Daffaj—Samuel A. Wing, Jr., '46, 3840 Greenbrier Ave., Dallas, Texas. Houjion—Eugene F. Malloy, '36, 3705 Arnold St. San jlnJonio—Charics A. Blomfield, '49, 124 Mary D Avenue, San Antonio, Texas. 
UTAH—Jack W. Galliran, '37, 1017 Kcariis BIdg., 
Salt Lake City. 

VIRGINIA—Charles M. Morrison, '38, Pump House Road, Richmond. 
WASHINGTON—JpoAanc-James H. Lynch, '40, 112 W. 22nd Ave. IVestern—PMrick J. Goggin, '30, 5723 37th Ave., N.E., Seattle, Wash. 
WEST VIRGINIA—Robert E. Shoemaker, '40, 1527 Hampton Road, Charleston, W. Va. 
WISCONSIN—Fox River I'aHo^Robert Bernard, '36, 953 Higgins Ave., Necnah, Wis. Green Bay—^John B. Sulli\an, '48, 715 N. Jackson. taCroiK—.August M. Grams, '28, 217 S. Front St. A/iVii'outee—Richard J. O'McIia, '39, .Asst. City Attorney, City of Milwaukee, Milwaukee, Wis. South Central—John E. Tobin, '34, 2826 Van Hise Ave., Madison, Wis. 
FOREIGN CLUBS Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24, (key man) Dacca, East Bengal. Cuba—Christopher C. Fitzgerald, '94, (key man) La Metropolitana (711), Habana. 
JAPAN—Col. Elmer J. Collins, '23, (key man) Chemical Section Hq., JLC, A.P.O. 343, c/o 
P. M., San Frandsco, Calif. Wont/a—Anthony F. Gonzales, '25, (key man) The Insular Life Assurance Co., Ltd., Insular Life BIdg. 

HAWAII—Thomas W. Flynn, Jr., '35, 5317 Opihi St., Honolulu, T. H. 
MEXICO—i/^xiVo Ci"<>'—Tehno DeLandero, '37, Eugenio Sue 220, Mexico City. Panama—William J. Sheridan, '38, Box 605, An-con.. Canal Zone. Puerto Rico—Paul F. McManus, '34, (key man) 
B. & M. Products Co., Box 2695, San Juan. 

SOUTH AMERICA—Pfru—Andres Mahitesu, '23. Tacna, Peru, S.A. 
PRINTEtJ AT AVE MARIA PRESS 






