The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
|5|tniin IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIII llllltlliMllitl^^ 


IN THIS ISSUE 
Editorial  194  
The Hon. William J. Graniield  195  
G. K. Chesterton to Lecture at N. D  197  
Frank Hering Further Honored  198  
AVashington's Birthday Exercises  .  199  
Suggestions for N. D. Readers  201  
Commencement Program  202  
Notre Dame Academy of Science, by S. Bocskei, '29  203  
Women's Club  205  
Athletics  206  
Alumni Clubs  208  
The Alumni  210  

The magazine is published monthly durinc the scholastic year by the Alumni 
Association of the University of Notre Pame, Notre Dame, Indium. The 
subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The 
annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. 
Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923, at the post oiSce at Notre 
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1897. All correspondence should 
be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
MEMBER OP THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
HARLEY MCDEVITT, '29, Advertising Mgr. 

THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquartors, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ACmiNI BOARD 
MARK M . FOOTB, '73 Honorary President JOHN W . EGGEMAN, '00 President JAMES E . DEERY, '10 Vice-President JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary WALTER DUNCAN, '12 Treasurer ALFRED C. EVAN, '20 Director GEORGE M . MAYPOLE, '03 Director 
M 
. HARRIT Mn.TfiR, '10 -Director 

T.
 PAUL MCGANNON, '07 Director DON M. HAMILTON, '12 {ea officio) Director 


Qiiuuit***, iiiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiitiitiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii llllllllltllM B 


Comment 

Under the athletics department in this issue, the announcement is made of the new plan of season tickets. 
Probably the usual criticism will arise as an echo. But upon mature consideration, the season ticket idea ought to appeal to alumni. And the alumni section in the new stadium has been improved. 
Notre Dame has literally thousands of followers who are not offered any preference in football tickets for their evident loyalty and interest (i. e. non-graduates who are not members of the Association). These people are in a position to do much (and have done much) for Notre Dame. Their support is essential. If it can be gained by a courtesy equal only to that granted to the supporters of the opposing team, it seems a reasonable enough method. 
Season ticket holders contribute more, without considering remote re­sults. They support every game. They do not choose the "big game" alone That is worth a great deal in itself. 
The Athletic Association has an­nounced that whereas, in the old Car­tier Field stands, season tickets were distributed both ways from the fifty yard line, under the new system they move only one way, and the Alumni Section begins at the fifty-yard line on the west side and moves north. 
Therefore, an alumnus, while not receiving preference in the purchase of season tickets, is assured good seats, and in addition, can secure his full preferred allotment in the Alumni Section. 
You can't crowd everybody bebveen the forty-yard lines. But compare the preferences you get as a Notre Dame alumnus with those of the alumni of other large schools, whose teams draw capacity crowds, and rest easy. 
Besides, every seat in the new stadium is a good one. (adv.) 
194 THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS March,loso f­
QHMitutMiiitniMtttMii»iii»iii»iiiniitt>i»»tniiiMttM)iMnnnutiHn)iM)iiMttMtti*iiii>>)n)»nt)iiiin>iiiiiiniiiiiiitii)iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiatiiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiaiiii iiiiiii •••ii ttniimiiititmiit^ 



I EDITORIAL | 
QllllllllMlllltlllltlllllllll lllltllllllMlllllllltllllll >•! llltllMIIIIIII ••••••••••Itllllll lllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllXlllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllMllllllllllltllllllllll II til I mipT 
Twenty-Four Million Vs. the Grace of God 
"Buildings housing approximately 250 students,"—"thus under one roof is lodged a group of un­dergraduates, large enough to afford variety of tj-pe but small enough to secure considerable intimacy," —"the whole point of the ... . plan is to throw groups of undergraduates, without regard to class, creed, or previous condition of society into an intimate group for the purpose of coming to know one another through four years of daily contact. You cannot live with a man, study -with him, eat with him, and talk vnth him witliout finding out something which you did not know before because no two human beings are exactly alike or possess the same degree of experience. Multiply this by two or three hundred, and you have a closely knit society of young men, embodjdng many different types of ability and interest."—"It is not, of course, to be expected that all these young men Avill find them­selves in accord. It is not even to be desired that they should. A man "svill have his o^vn particular group of friends wherever he goes and whatever he may be doing. But if he is compelled daily to come in close contact with many different soi-ts and conditions of men, representing many varjang interests and hobbies, he is surely the better for it. During the plastic yeai"s of college life, when he is reading ^^adely and beginning to think for himself, such a community of life, offering as it does the opportunity to exchange his ideas and defend his views and modify them when he finds they are wrong and offensive to his fellows, or, if he believes them to be right, stick by them,—surely such an expe­rience is invaluable." 
Consider those statements. With a few modifications, couldn't they mean Sorin, or Corby, or Walsh, or Brownson, or any of the halls on the Notre Dame campus? Add to the above pleas for physical and mental companionsliip a chapel, and couldn't that be an excerpt from the Notre Dame Catalogue? 
But it isn't. It is the substance of the interpretation of the House Plans being inaugurated at Harvard and at Yale universities. 
Mr. Edward S. Harkness was so impressed by the possibilities of this "radical plan of educational life" that he has given to each of these institutions the munificent sum of $12,000,000 for this specific purpose. 
If ever a claim for the gi'ace of God was supported b5'^ facts, it would seem to be in a comparison of the tedious process of sacrifice and prayer by which Notre Dame has arrived, tlirough eighty-eight years of suffering, of saxang, of foresight and determination bordering on the supernatural, at a posi­tion in the educational world equal to that being considered vrith all the awe and reverent suspicion of a new movement by our Eastern contemporaries. And they, through the vision and generosity of one man, will escape what Notre -Dame endured, backed in their "pioneering" by the veiy influential factor of a t^velve million dollar bank account. 
Dollar vs. Dolor is an old argument. It may be that Notre Dame has, in the price she has paid in men and prayers, stored up gi'aces that can never come with a material agent. 
But as one ponders the new Living Endo^vment Plan, the material problems that rest heavily upon the material plant of the University, and what the future may hold for Notre Dame, one can but surmise, ^vith a certain amount of ambition, what the grace of God might accomplish, backed by t^venty-four million dollars. 


TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Volume VII. MARCH, 1930 No. 7 
The Honorable IVilUam /. Granfield 
"Peaches" Gmnfield, LL.B. '13, Elected to Comjress From Second District, Massachusetts, in 
Political Upset February 11. 

R
EPUBLICAN leaders through­out the nation were startled on Feb. 11 with the news that for the iirst time in 40 years a Dem­ocrat, a "wet" Democrat in fact, had been elected to Congress from the second district of Massachusetts, which embraces the state capital and includes Northampton, the home of former President Calvin Coolidge. The margin of victory, 5,252 votes, left no strength in any explanation of the special election. National poli­tics still reverberate with the victory of William J. Granfield. 
The new Congressman is better known to his fellow Notre Dame alumni as the "Peaches" Granfield whose bat was the terror of Notre Dame's baseball opponents for three years, and who played third base with what a contemporary publica­tion described as "Justifiable non­chalance." The fact that the Cin­cinnati Eeds signed him at gradua­tion is sufficient testimony. "Peaches" was also one of the earlier stars of Notre Dame basketball, when the old dirt floor in the gym was making heroes and martyrs as well as basket­ball players. He won three mono­grams in each sport, captaining the basketball team in 1911-12. Ivnute Eockne has called him the greatest basketball player Notre Dame has had. 
Congressman Granfield, who was elected to fill the unexpired term of the late Representative Kirk Kay-nor, Republican, goes to Washington heralded by the famous Springfield Republican as the "Ideal Legendary Democrat." Pages of stories have already been written about him. It is impossible to do justice to the many fine things the various papers have printed. But it is a constant source of pride and pleasure to Notre Dame readers to see a Notre Dame man whose success seems to be greeted with such unanimous favor by both political friends and foes. Character, ideals, firmness, vitality,—these are but a few of the complimentary characteristics in the Granfield \'ic­tory literature. 
Sir. Granfield's career has been one that easily explains his success. He was born in Springfield, Mass, in 18S9. His parents were not wealthy, and even during his train­ing at Williston Academy he worked a great deal of his way. While at Notre Dame he paid most of the ex­penses of his course by working summers for various concerns in his home town. After graduation, in spite of the attractions of the salaries in professional baseball (which were much less then than now, but still comparatively good), "Peaches" de­cided to give up baseball and take up the practice of law. He entered the ofiices of W. H. Brooks, for years the leader of the Hampden County bar, whose practice was wide and diversi­fied, where the experience he gained was, he states, invaluable. He soon set up his own office and his con­sistent progress was begun. 
In 1915, Bill (as he is better known in Springfield), was elected to the city council, serving two years. -A.t the expiration of that term he Avas elected to the Legislature where he served three years. In 191S he was a member of the Massachusetts con­stitutional convention. 
In 1919 he was married to Miss Jennie Campbell. The only sad fea­ture of his present success is that Mrs. Granfield died last Fall, leaving, however, three lovely children, Elean­or Jane, 9, William Jr., 7, and John, 2. 
Congressman Granfield was a dele­gate to the National Democratic Con­vention, in New York, in 1924, and in 1926 was the Democratic nominee for district attorney. In 1928 he was again chosen as a delegate to the Democratic Convention, in Houston. 
He goes into his new position with the highest respect of his district. He is described as Notre Dame likes to have alumni described, embodying the high principles and practical ability that the University tries to inculcate. He is identified as a Jeffersonian Democrat, and maintains that the function of government is to serve the people. He emphasizes human rights as opposed to property rights. His law practice has been more or less distinguished by the application of these principles. He has defended many unfortunates against unjust charges, with little or no recompense. His practice, however, is largely civil, though he is considered one of the finest criminal trial lawyer in his dis­trict. He has won the largest civil award ever made in Hampden County, and secured one of three acquittals for murder in the legal history of the county. 
The origin of the nickname, "Peaches," makes an interesting story for Notre Dame men. There were a number of rumors about it, but according to the owner himself, it arose from a quaint old Notre Dame custom. A number of fellows had gone out the Niles road to the Haney form, which was then the pie capital of the N. D. world. It was about a three mile walk. After en­joying a good portion of the coveted pastry, on a particular altemoon. Bill and his friends began the return trip. Chewing tobacco was then (and the dead past has its live ghosts to­day) a popular custom, especially in keeping with the baseball tradition and Bill's teammates. Bill was an ex­ception, but on this aftenoon was pre­vailed upon to indulge in a mouthful of Peachey Scrap, or some such brand of that decade. Two days later, when he was able to get out of bed, he was an even more confirmed non-chewer, but the name "Peaches" re­mained with him through his college course. 
He carried through school a per­sonality that was modest to the point of retiring, in the face of ability that 
196 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS March, 19S0 
Hox. WILLIAM J. 

was outstanding enough to make him one of the heroes of the campus in a day when there were such heroes at Notre Dame as Knute Rockne, Cy Williams, and others. But it is a source of pride to a host of friends as well as to the University and the Association to know this new recog­nition of the merits of "Peaches" Granfield. 
Nominating Committees 

Nominating committees for the se­lection of candidates for the offices of the Association for 1930-31 are re­named in this issue in conformity to the requirements of the Constitution of the Association. 
The Committees are (a) Grattan 

T. Stanford, '04, 45 Nassau St., New­
 GRANFIELD, '13 
York City, chairman; Arthur E. Car­mody, '15, 819 Slattery Bldg, Shreve­port, La.; and Wendell T. Phillips, '12, care of Maginnis & Walsh, Archts., Boston, Mass.; (b) William 
P. Devine, '90, 925 Edgecomb Place, Chicago, 111., chairman; Francis P. Burke, '03, 2109 Grand Ave., Mil­waukee, Wis., and Don P. O'Keefe, '04, Chevrolet Motor Co., General Motors Bldg., Detroit, Mich. (The committees are designated a. and b. for reference only. They rank equally, and nominations are listed without reference to which committee made them. 
According to the Constitution, the names of these committees are to be carried in the ALUMNUS with a re­quest for suggestions from the mem­bers of the Association. March 30 is the final date for the reports of these committees. They are required to make different nominations for presi­dent, but may duplicate any of the other offices. 
Offices to be filled for the coming year by general election are Honorary President, President, Vice-President, Treasurer, and a Director for a four-year term. 


Student Honored 

Timothy Benitz, a Junior in the Arts and Letters College, was elected vice-president of the Mid-West Stu­dent Conference at its annual meet­ing in Atlanta, Ga., March 1. The aim of this organization, representing the leading Mid-Western colleges and universities, is to promote good fel­lowship among the undergraduates, and to discuss undergraduate prob­lems. 

Commerce Lectures 

The College of Commerce of the University, through Dean James E. McCarthy, has inaugurated a series of special lectures on Advertising and Merchandising by men who have achieved prominence in these fields. Among the lecturers announced by Dean McCarthy are: John P. Roche, of the Roche Advertising Agency, Chicago; William E. Donahue, adver­tising manager of the Chicago Trib­une, Chicago; Homer J. Buckley, president of Buckley-Dement Co., Chicago; Theodore McManus, (LL. D. '14), McManus Agency, Detroit; W. 
K. Lamport, president Lamport-Fox and Co., South Bend, and James O'Shaughnessy, business manager of Liberty magazine. New York City. 
Dates had not been announced at press time, but the College of Com­merce is to be congratulated upon this presentation to its students of two outstanding commercial activities by men with the immediate knowl­edge and experience of the group of special lecturers announced. 

Rockne Tour 

Literature is being distributed for a 1930 tour of Europe to be orga­nized by K. K. Rockne. Rock and his party will visit France, England, Ger­many, Austria, Switzerland, Holland and Czecho-Slovakia. The trip be­gins at New York, July 19, and ends in New York, September 8. The trip includes the Passion Play at Oberam­mergau. 
March, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 


Gilbert K. Chesterton to Le6iure at Notre Dame 
Noted Catholic Writer Scheduled to Begin Series of Lectures in April; Will Deliver-Commencement Address June 1. 
A
CADEMIC progress at Notre Dame received another stimulus with the announcement by the University that Gilbert K. Chesterton, eminent English man of letters, has been secured to deliver a series of lectures at Natre Dame. 
These lectures have been announced as a part of the University curric­ulum, beginning' in mid-April, and leading to regular college credits. It was announced at the same time that Mr. Chesterton is to deliver the Com­mencement address on June 1, at which time the University vnW confer upon him an lib. D. 
Mr. Chesterton is one of the most distinguished WTiters of the world. A convert to Catholicism, he has been called, "The Knight Errant of Ortho­doxy," and his essay on that subject stands as one of the great defenses of Christianity. .4 master of paradox, Mr. Chesterton's writing has been so versatile as to make it difficult to place him in any particular category without doing him injustice. 
English journalism has long been brighter for the influence of the clever and controversial pen of the famous G. K. C. Frankness, fear­lessness, and a devastating power of humor and satire have been applied to many of the problems of the Em­pire through his columns, to the ad­vantage of public opinion. 
Mr. Chesterton has won no little distinction as a poet. Several volumes of his poetry have been published. He has a flair for expressing color and sound in his poems that has seldom been equalled. "Lepanto" is one of the outstanding examples of this phase of his artistry. His "Ballad of the White Horse" is also extremely popular with his readers. 
Detective fiction has attracted the Chestertonian pen and to read one of his Father Bro^vn stories after read­ing some of the so-called popular detective stories of the day is to see what a gift to this phase of fiction Mr. Chesterton's attention has been. The figure of Father Brown has be­come as admired and loved as the famous Sherlock Holmes of Mr. Ches­terton's contemporary. "The Man Who Was Thursday" also attracted considerable attention to Mr. Chester­ton. 
Mr. Chesterton is an illustrator of pages of some of the writing of Hilaire Belloc, his continental counter­part. 
Through all these works cei'tain Chestertonian traits and talents are transcendent. Humor is outstanding, in fact sometimes concealing from the more careless reader the deeper threads that permeate his works. He has a sound philosophy of life. His conversion to Catholicity was the logical development of the right thinking reflected in his writings. Since his conversion his pen has been one of the strongest bulwarks of the Church. 
Mr. Chesterton is now only fifty-six years of age, though for years he has held a leading position in English letters, exerting an influence that has passed the bounds of the Empire to the corners of the earth. He was bom in London, with a strain of Scotch and Swiss blood that has been ad­vanced in explanation of the some­what deliberate character of his wit and humor and for the vein of imag­inative mysticism evidenced in many of his writings. 
Walt Whitman's "Leaves of Grass" is asserted to have exercised a pro­found influence on Chesterton that is reflected in his earlier works. 
(Continuwl on PaKe 205) 

talent, and his work has adorned the GILBERT KEITH CHESTERTON 198 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS March, 1930 

Frank Hering Is Further Honored 
The following remarks were print­

ed in the Congr^essional Eecord of 
February 12, introduced to the House 
of Representatives on February 11 by 
Louis Ludlow, member from Indiana. 
Mr. Ludlow. Mr. Speaker, one of 

the most blessed of all anniversaries 
is Mother's Day. The very name of 
this anniversary makes a thousand 
bells to tinkle in our recollection. It 
sends us back to first principles and 
revives all of the hallowed memories 
of childhood. It brings before the 
vision of every one of us the sweetest 
face we have ever known; we see her 
smiles and tears and once more hear 
her sing her lullabies. It makes our 
hearts throb and cur voices choke as 
we recall the unfathomable devotion 
of "mother," how she toiled and suf­
fered and the pi-ivations. she cheer­
fully endured that we might be fed 
and clothed and trained to do the part 
of honest and upright citizens in the 
varied acti\'ities of life. 
It is to me a source of special pi'ide that the city which I have the honor to represent in the Congress of the United States was the birthplace of Mother's Day. A silver-tongued orator of Indiana—Frank E. Hei-ing—^first coined the sacred jjhrase which is now recurrently heard around the world. The Order of Eagles, of which he has long been an outstanding leader, took up the slogan; and gi^ang expression to the mother love that is in the hearts of all of us, it has striven worthily and accomplished a great deal toward throwing the encircling arms of love and protection around the poor and aged mothers of the land. 
A most interesting account of the origin of Mother's Day is contained in an editorial that appeared in the In­dianapolis Times on February 7 last. Mr. Boyd Gurley, the author of the editorial, is a patriotic and brilliant newspaperman who in 1928 was awarded the Pulitzer gold-medal prize in competition with all of the editors of America for the most distinguished public service rendered by the news­paper profession during that year. The editorial in the Indianapolis Times is as follows: 
A EEAL ANNIVERSAKY 

This city has many anniversaries which it celebrates in pride and thankfulness, the birthdays of those who served the Nation and humanity well, of soldiers and of statesmen who won glory and gratitude, of poets who wrote songs that are immortal. 
authors whose messages remain for 
the ages. 
Today is a different sort of an an­

niversary. It is the birthday anni­
versary of an idea which became an 
impulse; an impulse that became a 
great movement. 
On the evening of February 7, 

1904, the English Opera House was 
crowded. Those who assembled be­
longed to the lodge of Eagles. 
The speaker was a young professor 

from Notre Dame, notable chiefly as 
being the first Protestant to hold such 
a position in that university. Otto 
Deluse had found him at South Bend 
and been impressed by his oratorical 
charm. 
He did not suspect that the event 

was to make history. 
It was on that night that Frank E. Hering, in a burst of oratory, traced all the goodness of men to mother love, all the advancement of civiliza­tion to the sacrifices of motherhood, all the hopes of the future to the in­fluence of mothers. 
He urged that in every Eagles' lodge one day be set aside each year in which men would remember their mothers, and in that memory lift themselves from sordid thought to higher planes of action. 
The idea caught and held attention. It was an appeal to something funda­mental. It tapepd the wells of all in­spii-ation. 
So it happened that in many Eagles' lodges, long before Mother's Day became a national institution, programs each year were held to honor the mothers of men. The idea that found expression in the English theater had become a movement. 
When, a few years ago, the Ameri­can War Mothers became interested in tracing the origin of this national anniversary they searched the records. Others claimed recognition to this honor. But the War Mothers, one of the few bodies chartered by Congress, decided that Frank E. Hering was the real "father of Mother's Day." 
Last fall they sent a committee to his home in South Bend to pin upon his breast their medal of honor, awarded to but three others, all from military life. His is the only award to a civilian. 
An idea once started does not die. It grows. Out of it, almost as a corollary, came the national crusade by the Eagles for old-age pensions, a crusade that has resulted in such laws in several States, and seems fated to become a law sooner or later in all 
States. 
Without Mother's Day, and the sen­

timent it brings to the surface in 
men's hearts, the old-age pension 
movement might never have appeared. 
From that same Mother's Day there 

can be predicted other movements 
that will seek to soften the burden of 
sacrifice; that will remove the menace 
of heartbreak and woe; that will rob 
motherhood of much of its sorrow and 
leave it only its gloi-y. 
It is well to remember anniversar­

ies, especially of impei-ishable ideas. 
It is also well for Indianapolis to re­
member in pride that with her other 
contributions to progress and civiliza­
tion it furnished the birthplace for a 
great idea from which has come bet­
ter things for all. 
Mr. Hering has also been prominent in recent Washington despatches for testimony given before a Congres­sional committee in connection with old age pensions. An editorial from the South Bend News-Times is sig­nificant. 
Figui-es given recently in Washing­ton before a Congressional committee by Frank E. Hering, of South Bend, and quoted by The News-Times, on the predicament of wage earners con­fronted with the problem of prepar­ing for their old age, which in the case of factory mechanics can come very early, should have been read and considered with serious thought by all socially minded men and women. 
The margin between avei-age in­come of wage earners in industrial communities and the cost of minimum requirements for life is so narrow, according to Mr. Bering's tested sta­tistics, that it is evident few wage earners are able to avoid becoming dependents on their children when their earning period expires. 
Old age assistance by the state therefore becomes old. age insurance; and if this be socialistic citizens will have to make the most of it. 
We are confronting a condition and not a theory. Old age assistance be­comes a social necessity unless we are to be able to increase greatly the average income or decrease greatly the cost of living. Even then society should not be able to supply to all the knowledge and experience needed for the laying up of income bearing property against old age. 
We must be very careful in the 
(Continued on PaKe 201) 

March, 1930 THE NOTBE DAME ALUMNUS 
1896—Washington s Birthday Exercises—1930 
Address of Rev. Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., '17, Features Splendid Traditional Program. 
T
HE Senior Class of the Univer­sity, capped and gowned for the the first time in its Class his­tory, met in Washington Hall, on the morning of February 22, to conduct the ceremonies which through thirty-four years of observance have become traditional at Notre Dame. This observance of the birthday of George Washington is one of the finest or­ganized gestures of patriotism in academic Ameiica, and is one in which every Notre Dame man can take a particular pride. 
In academic procession the Class moved from the Main Building to Washington Hall, at 9:30, Saturady morning. Four hundred and thirty-nine Seniors participated. (College of Arts and Letters, ISl; College of Science, 3S; College of Engineering, 51; College of Law, 44, and College of Commerce, 125.) 
Walter Stanton, '30, Gary, Ind., a brother of John Stanton, '24, and David Stanton, '26, delivered (ac­cording to the good old Stanton traditions) a most able interpreta­tion of several selections from Wash­ington's Farewell Address. 
Louis Hasley, '30, Marengo, Iowa, a brother of Henry Hasley, '28, gave the Washington's Birthday Ode, in which strengtTi and beauty of expres­sion were well in keeping with the high literary tradition surrounding the honor. 
Raymond J. Reardon, '30, Wauke­gan. III., President of the Class, made 
a most able and appropriate presen­tation address which embodied the patriotic ideals and the Notre Dame spirit so strongly implanted in Notre Dame men. 
The University Orchestra, under the direction of Joseph J. Casasanta, '23, played the overtures and the ac­companiments for the "Star Spangled Banner," and the "Notre Dame Hymn" by Francis C. Schwab, '02. 
The beautiful flag was draped on the Washington Hall stage. It will, in accordance with custom, be blessed at the Baccalaureate Mass, on June 1, and will be raised on that day to float over the campus for the ensuing year. 
The following is the te-xt of the in­spiring address given by Rev. Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C, '17, vice-president of the University, in accepting the flag on behalf of the University. (It should be of particular interest to the Classes of '17, 'IS, and '19, who, with '16, return in June for their Di-v Reunion.) 
REV, JIICHAEL MULCAIRE, C.S.C, '17 

Gentlemen of the Senior Class: 
As your president has said, you have gathered here this morning to perpetuate an honored tradition of your Alma Mater which dates back more than thirty years. Washing­ton's Birthday is one of those beauti­ful traditions of this University which has become more sacred as the years have gone on—sacred in its signifi­cance because it commemorates the solemn pledge of unselfish loyalty of each graduating class to the exalted ideal of true patriotism; sacred be­cause it commemorates the consecra­tion to the holy purpose of faithful citizenship of young men who have all but finished their formal educa­tion, and are about to go out from the guiding influences with which the University has surrounded them into a world that has perverted notions of civic obligations; sacred, finally, be­cause of the hallowed memories it awakens of the bravery with which those pledges have been kept by those who have gone before you. 
It is impossible for me to sit through this e-^cercise, year after year, without recalling this same day thir­teen years ago, when, as a member of the graduating class, I took part in the exercises in which you are taking part today. On that day, the Class of 1917, through its president, pledged its devotion, as you have done, to the flag it presented to the University. Little did they anticipate, when the pledge was given, that be­fore that flag would be borne to the altar on the day which was to be their day of graduation, to be blessed with the prayers and blessings of the Church, they would be called upon to leave books and friends and families, and follow it into foreign lands, there to suffer, and some of them to die, as testimony that their pledge, given here, was not idle words or their consecration an empty formality. 
The record of their heroic achieve­ments in that great struggle has made forever sacred the ceremony at which you now assist, and their names, and the names of those who went before them and did not return, and who sleep today under foreign sides, are carved in glory ever­lasting at the door of the church they loved so well, where they learned, as you have learned, that the love of God and the love of Country are one and inseparable in the heart of every Catholic. 
Since those days of awful carnage, the world has lived in hopes that the day would some time come when human sacrifice would not be exacted in the settlement of international differences. Peace treaties have since been formulated to the end that those differences shall in the future be submitted to the arbitrament of peace rather than force. But those dreams of peace have gradually been shattered, as it became more evident that the treaties were written with misgivings and accepted with in­
sincenty. 
For the last month the eyes of the world have been fixed with fervent hope on London, where the delegates from the five great naval powers of the world are deliberating on the limi­tation of armaments. And yet, from the beginning it was evident that the same insincerity and the same diplo­matic intrigue had cast their shad­ows over that conference as they have over so many conferences before; while the delegates were talking of peace, they were thinking of war. And when, at last, they placed their cards upon the table, and set forth in detail the claims they had come to urge, what do we find? Instead of a proposed limitation of the naval fighting strength of the nations there represented, which the world had hoped for, four of the five nations are about to begin the most elaborate program of naval expansion in their histories. Japan has stated its re­
Traffic Plans for New Stadium Are Considered 
quirements for national safety, which necessitate the expansion of its navy; France is determined it cannot trust its security to treaties, which it con­siders mere pious resolutions, unless protected by the sanction of a large lighting force; Italy will have to keep pace mth France; and the American delegates estimate that a minimum expenditure of 5900,000,000.00 is necessary on the part of this country to maintain a nominal equality with the fleet of England. And so the mad race goes on, and the hopes of the world for a lasting peace are begin­ning to fade, as they have so often faded before, and must of necessity continue to fade, so long as the lust for power and commercial supremacy, leather than the Christian principles of brotherhood and forbearance, dictate the international policies of the coun­sellors of nations. While national jealousies and national suspicions cast a shadow over the conferences of nations, the hope of a lasting world peace is but a wiU-o-the-wisp. 
What the future may have in store, we do not know. I pray that none of you may ever be called upon to re­deem the pledges of loyalty you have given this morning to the flag of your country on the field of battle. Should that day ever come, I know that you would write as glorious a chapter in the annals of Notre Dame as any ever written by her sons who have gone before you. 
But there is a patriotism of peace as well as the patriotism of war, less spectacular though it may be than that displayed on the field of battle, none the less essential to the con­tinued welfare of our country. I have often felt that it is not quite so difficult to march in the uniform of a hero when bands are playing and drums are beating and admiring crowds are applauding, as it is to be loyal to the duties of honest citizen­ship in the everyday humdrum of ordinary life. 

You are going out into a world in which you will find distorted princi­ples of patriotism and false notions of civic duty. You will meet, for in­stance, men and women who regard the exercise of the right of suffrage as a privilege to be used for personal advantage rather than as a sacred duty to be exercised in the promotion of the welfare of the state or of the nation. You will meet men and woicen who seek political preferment or pub­lic office only because of the plunder which it may possibly afford them. You will come across those exaggera-
Plans for i-ailroad transportation that will bring trains within two hundred feet of the new Notre Dame stadium are probably of principal in­terest to Notre Dame's far-flung battle line. Michigan Central Rail­road engineers are working on sev­eral possible arrangements with this end in view. 
Of equal, and perhaps greater, im­portance is the system of roads and traffic being worked out for the auto­mobile traffic at the home games. Fol­lowing are the outstanding develop­ments already assured through approval of the St. Joseph County Board of County Commissioners and the County Council. 
The Eddy Street or Juniper road (running North-South), in front of the stadium, will be widened to a width of 60 feet from Cleveland Eoad to South Bend Avenue, and paved to a width of 22 feet, with an eight foot berm on either side. 
AngcUa Avenue (running East-West, through what was formerly University property, just South of the present golf course and Cedar Grove cemetery) will be opened up and extended eastward from Notre Dame Avenue to a point where the Edison road joins the Eddy Street road, to a width of 80 feet, and paved to a width of 22 feet with an eight foot berm on either side. 
The Edison road (running East-West) will be widened to a width of 60 feet and paved to a width of 22 feet, with a berm of eight feet on either side, from the Eddy Street road to the Ironwood road (East of Eddy Street, running North-South). 
Ironwood Eoad is already paved 

llllllltlllllMllltlllltlltlllnillMIUIIIII 
southward, and connects with a new bridge that is now being built across the St. Joseph Kiver, known as the Kline Street bridge. 
In addition, East of the stadium, a road will be opened up, on University pi-operty, connecting the field East of the stadium with the Edison road as improved. 
The field just East of the cemetery and North of Angella Avenue extend­ed, as likewise the field Soutk of the stadium, and another field East of the stadium, can all be used for the park­ing of automobiles, and approaches to these parking fields will be available from any part of the Angella Avenue pavement, the Edison road pavement and the Eddy Street road pavement. 
Traffic will be regulated through the co-operation of the South Bend police department, so that prior to a game played in the new stadium most of these roads will be accessible to one-way traffic only. In addition, the Dorr road, running from the Niles road to the University Postoffice, re­cently closed, can be opened up and over this road vei-y probably return traffic from Notre Dame will be di­rected. 
Many details remain to be worked out, and as yet there are no diagrams or maps available for more compre­hensive explanation. But these de­velopments will be completed in time to present them in the ALUMNUS before next Fall. 
The above information, for the most part, was given to the ALUMNUS thi'ough the courtesy of G. A. Fara­baugh, '04, attorney for the Uni­versity, through whose efforts many of the arrangements listed above were successfully completed. 
ted nationalists who hold that the state can do no \vrong, and that there are no individual rights, so inviolable, which the majority is obliged to re­spect. You will meet men and women whose respect for law is determined by their convenience, and whose atti­tude towards the fundamental insti­tutions of our national life is one of necessary toleration. Into that world you are now about to enter, destined by your educational opportunities to become leaders in the communities in which you live. There it becomes your duty to preach by word and 
example the lessons of true patriot­ism which you have learned here. 
In behalf of the University, I am pleased to accept the flag which you present this morning. We have no doubt but that the high resolve which animates you today will inform your lives in the years to come, that the lofty principles of patriotism "which have distinguished the men of Notre Dame in other years will inspire you to greater achievement in the cause of God and Country. 

March, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 



Suggestions for Notre Dame Readers 
A series of slvetches by the Rev. P. 

J. Carroll, C.S.C, '11, "Memories of An Irish Lad," appearing in the Ave Maria, are attracting the attention of literary America to Notre Dame, and especially that part of it which is in­terested in the Gaelic influence. Father Carroll's facile pen has con­tributed much poetry and prose to the litei-ature of modern America that has been highly praised, but this latest series is to all appearances his greatest work to date. The Ave Maria and the author have received hundreds of letters.of praise. The ALUMNUS has selected several as tyiiical and significant: 
Rt. Rev. William H. Turner, LL. D. '26, Bishop of Buffalo, -writes: I am enjoying your "Memories of An Irish Lad." In my opinion they are what is called real literature. I enjoy them all the more, of course, because I come from what you call the southern part of the county. But I know your locality very well too . . . Let the Limerick of your "Memories" rank with Daniel Corkery's "Stormy Hills." 
Frank H. Spearman, LL. D. '17, popular and prominent author and one of the leading converts of the Church in this country, writes: "I must tell you, even on a post card, how much we are enjoying your Irish sketches. I read them to my wife and we get a good laugh out of them. I delight in the Celtic idioms and enjoy the subtle humor of your textual treatment. 
Dr. Ellen Ryan Jolly, the only woman holder of an LL. D. from Notre Dame ('18), adds: "I'll present Patch to the audience (at Pawtucket) and in reading his memories will give the friends another proof of Notre Dame's loyalty to high Irish ideals and give them an insight into the charms of a Catholic home in Limer­ick on the Shannon. 
Father Michael Pathe, C.SS.R., comments: "I have been following your "Memories of An Irish Lad" in the Ave Maria whenever I was for­tunate enough to run across the splendid magazine in my mission wanderings. Last month I was down through Alabama and it would have done your heart good to see with w-hat avidity the boys looked forward for the next issue. We bore all our hard­ships and settled all our diflFerences with your own Irish, 'Ah, dear.' 
The ALUMNUS regrets that only these few glimpses of what Father Carroll is achieving can be reprinted 
here. The suggestion is, of course, to see that the Ave Maria reaches you. * * * 
Gilbert K. Chesterton, concerning whom an announcement appears in this issue, has produced as his latest book "The Thing—-Why I Am A Catholic." The book can be had from the University Book Store; $2.50. The volume is made up of thirty-five spirited chapters on contemporary philosophies and religious beliefs. Mr. Chesterton crosses the intellectual paths of Dean Inge, Mencken and Darrow, among others. 
* * * 

Notre Dame has watched with in­terest the development of a South Bend novelist and journalist, Mc-Cready Huston, who has for a num­ber of years been a special lecturer in the College of Arts and Letters. Mr. Huston who is now managing editor of the South Bend News-Times, has published three novels — "Huling's Quest," "Dear Senator" and a new one, "The King of Spain's Daughter." (Bobbs-Merrill; §2.50.) Following is a brief review of the latest work: 
Shields Eeyburn at 38 vice-presi­dent of Mammoth Motors, an admired and respected citizen of Empire, II­lyi'ia, and the possessor of a charm­ing and happy home finds himself entertaining an undefined dissatisfac­tion with his apparently successful life. Harboring dreams which nei­ther his business prospects nor his wife and children seem capable of fulfilling he turns to "the possibility of a great love, the recognition of a man by some radiant creature, a King of Spain's daughter, who might at any time come into his life." 
Ivy Phillips, the unhappy wife of the company's auditor, first makes him aware, by her unashamed avowal of love, that he is a romantic figure, and thus incited he falls an easy vic­tim to the rather obvious machina­tions of the exotic Coral Winters. His wife, Elizabeth, an intelligent woman, quite as successful in her way as he is in his, endeavors to combat this love that threatens to rob her of her husband with the cudgel of com­mon sense, but common sense is of little avail when a man has once con­vinced himself that his wife does not understand him. 
The psychological study of such a man is indeed interesting, and the end of his transitory phase may jus­tify somewhat the means of the tran­sition, but somewhere in the case of Shields Eeyburn a false note has been struck. Perhaps it is because it is hard to reconcile the Eeyburn who is an ardently admired executive of a great business with the man who stoops to clandestine meetings; per­haps it is because at no time does his need for a new love seem vital enough to justify his disregard of duty, especially for a woman whose seem­ing should have been apparent to a man of his astuteness. Shields Eey­burn steadfastly refuses to become as convincing a character as the Dan Meredith of "Dear Senator." 
Structurally, the author has build-ed better than ever before. There is a smoothness and a more highly de­veloped dramatic sense combined with a very cleverly woven background which should make this book admired above his others. His technique is in­creasingly artistic and there is no doubt that he has the power to pro­voke thought. Still, the question is bound to arise as to whether a more worthy theme might not have been chosen to display the talents of in­sight and meticulous portrayal that are undoubtedly McCready Huston's. 
MRS. J. E. ARMSTRONG. 

N. D. Man State Orator 

Frank Corbett, Fort Wayne, Ind., a senior in the College of Arts and Letters of the University of Notre Dame, won the Indiana State Orator­ical contest at the University of Notre Dame, on February 14. He competed with orators representing Earlham, Purdue (second place), Evansville, Manchester, Butler and Wabash. 
Corbett, who was the winner of the Breen Medal contest this year, suc­ceeds to the championship won last year by Jim Eoy, '29, also "a Fort Wayne boy. He will represent Notre Dame in the Central Division orator­ical contest, for Missouri, Wisconsin, Indiana and Illinois, to be held in Wisconsin, April 4, at the school winning that state championship. The finals in the national oratorical con­test, won last year by Jim Roy, will be held this year on April 25, at Northwestern University, Chicago. 
The consecutive victories of Messrs. Eoy and Corbett are indicative of the tradition in oratory and debate which has marked Notre Dame's participa­tion in these activities for years. It must also be gratifying to Fort Wayne-Notre Bame men to have these boys so ably representing that Notre Dame center. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALTIMNUS March, 1930 


Commencement and Reunions, May 30, 31, J^^e 1 
(A Tentative Program—Even If Only Half of it Happens, YoJi Can't Afford to Miss It!) 
May 30, Memorial Day, makes it possible, to speak from a practical viewpoint, to attend the full three-day program with only a doubtful half-day of legal labor lost. 
o 
May 30, Memorial Day, from a higher point of view, offers a splen­did opportunity to alumni for honor­ing their Classmates and recalling the incidents of two wars. The Dix Re­union groups of '97, '98, '99 and '00 (and the earlier group of '78, '79, '80 and '81) contain a number of mem­bers who fought in the Spanish-American War. 
The Glasses of '16, '17, '18 and '19 need no refreshing of memory to pic­ture again the Great War and Notre Dame's heroic participation. The tablets on the Memorial Door of Sa­cred Heart Church are filled with names of men who might otherwise have been planning to come back with this group. 
At present, plans are being made for a special observance of the traditional Memorial Day Field Mass, in which the alumni, of the two war periods especially, will play a part. Details will be announced as they are perfected. 
3. 
The added holiday olfers all the above Classes, and the Classes of '05 (Silver Jubilarians) and '25 (5-Year Class) a day of real Reunion. Sat­urday and Sunday are broken up by the events of the Commencement pro­grom. Friday is free for the dinners, the "sessions" and what will you. Use it. 
4. 
The University Golf Course will be open to alumni. You'll travel far and inconvenience yourself considerably for a week-end of golf. Think what it means to have all the other at­tractions of Commencement. Reunion and Notre Dame, and a Golf Course at the Door. Don't crowd, the line forms on the right! 
5. 
Baseball! Double-header! Worth the trip in itself. Friday, Memorial Day, Coach Keogan's nine (and it looks like a good one) will meet the always strong Wisconsin team. 
Saturday's matinee will be against the strong Navy nine from Annap­olis. The Navy knows Notre Dame in the sports world, and will come prepared. 
6. 
The Stadium and the Law Building will be well along in the process of construction. You'll want to pick out your seat in the stadium (if exper­ience is an indication). And you'll want to see the new law building. (Rumor has it that it was put on the corner so that the lawyers could prac­tice both plain and fancy ambulance-chasing. At any rate, it is to be strictly modem. 
7. 

BULLETIN 
Just consider the Chesterton story in this issue as good clean fun. The South Bend newspapers are the Editor's authority, just in time to be squeezed into this second form, that illness has compelled Mr. Chesterton to postpone his lec­tures until next Fall, Oct. 6 to Nov. 15. 
8. 
Living Endowment -will be officially launched June 1, the beginning of the Association's fiscal year. This move­ment will make history for Notre Dame. Those who are here at the time will have unusual opportunity to study the Plan first-hand. 
9. 
The Council of Clubs will be in­augurated this year. Each Club is to have a delegate officially present. Topics of interest to everyone will be discussed. Come along with your delegate. 
10. 
The President's Class, '00, is part of the Dix Reunion program. Judge Eggeman's administration has been one that should command the admira­tion of every alumnus, and certainly the men who were in school with him 
•win want to take part in a fitting termination to his year as President. 11. 
It is a 0-Year Reunion of the Alum­ni Secretary's Class, '25. The Uni­versity has not been urgent in Re­union suggestions for this group, but through the Alumni Secretary what­ever doubts exist have been waived and if the Class Secretary will come out of hiding, plans will proceed. 
Further, deponent sayeth not, and careth not. You couldn't get more than that in three days if you planned five years. A few details, such as dinners, can be arranged through the Classes or groups desiring them. 
Jlany details in connection with the above outline wU be announced from time to time. But, in the meantime, you can see that there must be no conflicting engagements if you want to do that good old self of yours justice. 

Hogan Praised 
he Bavard, the magazine which is bringing Notre Dame to Fort Wayne under the capable leadership of Harry Flannerj' and Cliff Ward, carries in its suggestions for Fort Wayne's hall of fame the following article out­lining Harry G. Hogan, '04.— 
"Because, as one versatile in his talents, he has been able not only to establish an enviable and respected reputation for himself as a national Republican organizer but also succeed well as a lawyer and a banker. Will Hays, former Postmaster General, himself regarded as one of the most talented organizers in the country, paid Mr. Hogan the compliment of referring to him as the 'country's gi-eatest political organizer.' 
"A bom orator and a brilliant stu­dent, Mr. Hogan is the exact op­posite of the banker type of fiction. His every thought and deed is mingled with human kindness and sympathy. He has the Irishman's love for human beings. 
"Mr. Hogan was bom May 4, 1881, in Fort Wayne, the son of Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Hogan, who were them­selves the possessors of many of the talents for leadership which belongs to Harry. 
"Mr. Hogan was educated in the Cathedral grade schools and at the University of Notre Dame, from which he received along with high scholastic and athletic honors, a de­gree of Bachelor of Laws. Alter having engaged in the legal profession and having held a number of public legal offices, he became in March, 1922, president of the Dime Sa^'^ngs & Trust Company which he helped to organize. Since then the bank has enjoyed a remarkable groAVth. Mr. Hogan was married on November 27, 191G, to Miss Virginia Olds, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. William H. Olds. They have one son. Jack Hogan." 
The same issue of Le Bavard car­ries a full page devoted to a very good photograph of Charlie Butter-worth, '24, with a descriptive para­graph on his rise to fame, know^n to all C!harlie's fellow alumni. 

March, 1930 203 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 



The Notre Dame Academy of Science 
By Stephen C. Bocskei, B. S. '29 
One evening in September, 1926, the dean of the College of Science, Eev. Dr. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C, '11, sat in his office in Science Hall in conference with three senior students of his college. Messrs. Joseph Bal­linger, '27, Cletus Banworth, '27, and Laui-ence Bieker, '27, had been select­ed to confer with the dean on the advisability of forming some kind of organization whose purpose should be the furthering of scientific study among the students of Notre Dame. It was thought that membership in the proposed organization should be selective, on the basis of scholarship, and should be a distinction in itself. 
The proposal was nothing new. There had been several scientific so­cieties at the University, all of them short lived, and none producing last­ing results. 
As early as 1868, the United Scien­tific Association had been founded. Its purpose, as stated in the constitu­tion, was "the prosecution of scientific research." Not much was done to realize this provision of the constitu­tion. Two years later we find another "association" prosecuting; this time the name "united" had been dropped from the title. The activities of this society were also negligible. In 1872 another society began life as the Notre Dame Scientific Association. The object of this association was the "mutual interchange and advance­ment of scientific knowledge." Mem­bership was limited to fifteen mem­bers, though the association was not an honor society in the sense that any special scholastic qualifications were demanded of its members. There are occasional references in the SCHOLAS­TIC of the activities of this association for the following eleven years. In March, 1887, the Camay Microscop­ical Society was formed. This was about five yeai'S after the late Father Alexander Kirsch, C.S.C, '78, had re­turned to Notre Dame from a two-year period of study in Louvain. Abbe Camay was Professor of Cy­tology in the University of Louvain, in fact he may be called the founder of that science. He became a cor­responding member of the society and sent several papers that were read at the meetings. 
This society had a colorful, if brief, history. Active membership was limited to twelve actual residents of 
the University of Notre Dame. There 
was a prorision according to which 
honorary members were admitted. 
Admission to membership was "free 
of charge," but a two-thirds vote of 
the active membership was necessary 
to admit a new member. Meetings 
were to be held every two weeks. Dur­
ing the meetings each member wore 
a white silk badge with gold fringe. 
A picture of a microscope figured 
conspicuously on this badge. Alas! 
After such elaborate preparations 
only eight meetings were held. 
From 1887 to 1926, there was no 

lasting scientific society at Notre 
Dame. Several science clubs and pre­
medical societies were formed, but 
none survived even to the traditional 
banquet stage. 
The present Academy of Science be­gan its existence on September 20, 1926, in the dean's office in Science Hall. The organization meeting was held five days later in a classroom in Science Hall. It was attended by about thii-ty students of the College of Science, whose scholastic average was 85 percent or more. The follow­ing temporary officers wei'e elected: 
J. A. Foley, '27, president; Samuel A. Romano, '28, vice-president, and W. E. Mahin, '28, secretary . A committee to draw up a constitution was ap­pointed by the president. The mem­bers of the committee were: J. Bal­linger, chainnan, C. S. Banworth and 
L. W. Bieker. At the first regular meeting held on Monday evening, September 27, 1926, a constitution was adopted and the name, Notre Dame Academy of Science, became the official title of the 
organization. The first officei-s of the permanent organization were: Cletus 
S. Banwoi'th, president; Edward S. Post, vice-president; Samuel A. Ro­mano, secretary. The executive com­mittee was composed of Joseph Bal­linger, William Mahin, and John Foley. 
Since its organization, the Academy has been uninterruptedly active. A number of amendments have been voted to the constitution, all of them tending to raise the standard for membership and making for per­manency. The Academy has received recognition from the executive officers of the University as well as from edu­cators not connected with the Uni­versity. A number of requests have 
been received for copies of the consti­
tution to be used as models by scien­
tific societies of other schools. 
The purpose of the Academy is 

"the promotion of interest in all 
branches of science and the diffusion 
of scientific knowledge among mem­
bers and the general student body of 
the University of Notre Dame" 
The Academy strives to attain this 
object by having its members prepare 
papers on scientific subjects and by 
having these papers read and dis­
cussed in open meeting. 
The Academy admits to active mem­

bership only honor students of the 
University. "Any student of the Col­
lege of Science who has completed his 
freshman year and whose scholastic 
average is at least 85 percent may, on 
recommendation of his dean, become 
an active member." Honorary mem­
bers are elected by a plurality vote of 
the active members. 
The officers of the organization are: Moderator, the dean of the College of Science; President, an active member of senior ranking; Vice-President, Secretary, and Executive Committee, elected from active membership. All officers must have been members of the Academy in good standing for at least one semester. 
The insignia of the Academy is a key, bearing the monogram of the University with the inscription "Academy of Science" engraved in an arc below the monogram. Honorary members are entitled to wear the key. Active members must have been mem­bers of the Academy for two previous semesters, eligible for the third, and they must have read a paper of merit, before they are entitled to wear a key. 
Among those who have addressed the Academy are: Dr. John B. Ber­leting, '80, for many years University physician, and at present Secretary of the Board of Health of South Bend; Dr. L. J. Quinlan, dental surgeon; Dr. F. N, Bonine, of Niles, Michigan, 
LL.D. '19; Dr. J. Zimmerman, Pro­fessor of Anatomy, Illinois Medical School; Dr. W. H. Baker, Specialist in children's dieases; Dr. C. E. Sav­ery, of South Bend. Parke, Davis & Company, Eli Lilly & Company, and the Squibb Company, pharmaceutical houses, have sent representatives to address the Academy on methods of production of their biological prod­ucts. (Continued on Pace 204) 
Chestei'ton to Lecture 
(Continued from PaRe 197) 

A critic has said of him: It is not a little difficult to sum up a man such as Gilbert Keith Chesterton in a con­cluding paragraph. 
There are far too many view points from which he has to be regarded— poet, artist, essayist, critic, religious and political controversialist, propa­gandist, biographer, novelist and jour­nalist—^nor would it be fair to "lump" ali these divers assets together, in a single phrase of approbation. But after all, in this world of men and women it is the man himself who counts for most. Whatever may be said of Chesterton the writer—and he has some literary enemies as well as a list of literary friends and admirers —^there can be no sort of doubt that Chesterton the man is a great and an important personality in our midst to­day. Moreover, with all this fame that the years have brought and will bring to him, he remains the same indi\iduality utterly untouched by pride or vanity. 
This is the giant (and Mr. Chester­ton's physical appearance is well in keeping) of the literary world whom Notre Dame has secured for a series of lectures that should be outstanding in academic -America. Mr. Chester­ton's Catholicity of course marks him as a man of special appeal to Cath­olic education, but his fame as a writer has long since brought him a place in letters that dissolves any bonds of creed or race, and his ap­pearance at Notre Dame is an event of interest to all educationally minded people. 
A brother of Mr. Chesterton, Cecil Chesterton, lectured at Notre Dame tiventy years ago. 

College of Law 

Dan Harvey, who is practicing law in Chicago, and Anthony de Dario, who is practicing in Elkhart, were among recent visitors at the Law School. 
Hon. L. A. Karel, county judge of Milwaukee County, has presented to the Law School, a "Portrait of a Truly Great La-\vyer," by G. C. Bon­ney. 
* * * 

Eay Brady of Salt Lake City and John Kilkenny of Pendleton, Oregon, were visitors at the Law School re­cently. Eay Brady was returning 
from a long trip through Central 
America, and stopped on the campus 
overnight. Eay is a little changed 
from the iive years he has been at 
it, and still has an enviable reputa­
tion for a young man, in Salt Lake 
City. 
* * * Donald M. Donahue has passed the 
N. Y. bar examination, the College is informed. 

Annual Monogram Show 
Absurdities will be held on the nights of April 3-4-5 in Washington Hall with a preliminary performance being given on Wednesday afternoon, April 2, for Saint Mary's girls. The show this year will be arranged by Joe Abbott assisted by Jack Quinn and Clarence Donovan. The Direct­ing and musical scores will be taken care of by Joe Casasanta whose knowledge along these lines will of itself assure the quality of the show. 
In addition to the e.xperienced handling the club is exceptionally fortunate in having within its ranks some very talented actors who include Jack Cannon, Tom Conley, Nordy Hoffman and several others. 

Academy of Science 
(Continued from TaKC 203) 

Faculty members who have ad­dressed the Academy are: Eev. Dr. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C, '11, dean of the College of Science; the late Eev. George Albertson, C.S.C, '14; Eev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C, '11; Professor H. B. Froning; Professor Daniel Hull, M.S. '22; Dr. Knowles Smith; Mr. Lester Pierce; and Mr. George Paff, '27. 
The active membership of the Academy has been slowly mounting. In its initial year there were thirty members. In the second year of its existence there were thirty-three mem­bers. The greatest increase in mem­bership was recorded in the school year beginning September, 1928, when forty-four men earned membership. This year there are forty-six mem­bers. 
With the interest shown in the activities of the Academy by both members and the student body, the recognition received from executives of the University and educators from other universities, the Academy gives every indication of being an institu­tion of real permanency. 

Hering Honored 
(Continued from Page 198) 

present state of affairs not to make too many and too high exactions from the wage and salary earners for pub­lic or state services. That is why Tlie News-Times has been uttering words of caution against permitting too many charges to be made against families with children in the public schools. It were better to abolish some services than to permit the sum of all small charges to make too great a tax on the wage and salary earner. 
We must be careful also how in the good name of public health and pro­phylaxis we subject the families to additional charges. It is all very well to carry the banner of health, and we are enthusiastic for public health work; but it is not good to put on directly or indirectly charges which the family cannot easily reconcile with school service. Unfortunately the schools offer a convenient peg on which to hang many things. 
Mr. Hering has so much informa­tion about how people live, what their income is and how it is distributed that he would make an admirable public consultant for the city of South Bend in its various enterprises if he were able to give the time apart from his national and state work for the old age assistance. 

Junior Prom Siiccess 

Guests have gone home, dress shirts have been laundered, and the Palais Eoyale has resumed its ordinary as­pect. In other words, the Junior Prom of 1930 has gone its merry, ro­mantic way into the social history of Notre Dame. In every detail it was one of the most successful and well-managed Junior Proms ever held at the University. 
William J. Sullivan, general chair­man, with the efficient aid of John Kuhn, Bob Balfe, Ed Madden and the rest of his hard-working Prom com­mitteemen, made of the dance an affair exceeding in brilliance the most optimistic expectations. The music and decorations were especially com­mented upon. 

Bo^j Life Bureau Busy 

The Boy Life Bureau of the Knights of Columbus, of which John Contway, M.A. '26, is director is progressing splendidly. The latest development is a publication for the Columbian Squires, the Herald. 
Marcli, 19S0 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
gjiii • lltltllllttlllllllllJIflHI'tHflMtltrMtttOIII iiiiiiiMiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iMiiiaiiiiii MQ 
WOMEN'S CLUB PAGE | 
QMItlll>llll>IM>llllllll>ll"<H>>fMIIIMlMltiMlllllttlMIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIilllt>lltlMMllUllMII)Mttlllllllll>lllll«IMMIIIMIflll>IIIMIIIMIIIItl|lll|lllilllllllll((IIIIIMIIIIII(IIIMIiIIIII>lllllllllllllllll>llllllllllQ 
Readings for Courses In Education for High School Teachers 
By Sister JM. Agnes Alma, 0. P. 
Mt. St. Mary-on-tlie-Hudson, 
Newburgh, New York. 

As a preliminaiT to the investiga­tion of text books for courses in edu­cation for high school teachers, the committee considered the survey of courses in education in Notre Dame University contained in an unpub­lished master's thesis submitted by Sister Mary Louis Irene, C.S.C, in August, 1929, the results of a sim­ilar investig-ation at the University of Minnesota, and certain other teacher evaluations of courses in edu­cation. As a result of this considera­tion, the committee decided to eval­uate texts in the fields of introduc­tion to education, principles of sec­ondary education, educational psy­chology, and methods in special sub­jects, English and history particu­larly. 
Notre Dame alumnae, as shown in the sur\-ey mentioned, rank in courses in education educational psychology first in importance, principles of sec­ondary education second, philosophy of education third, and general meth­ods fourth. Why is this committee omitting philosophy of education from its consideration? Is the subject held by the members as one lacking sufficient importance to be included? The Catholic philosophy of education is a sound one, a supernatural one To evaluate in the field of philosophy of education, te.xts other than those from Catholic sources seems to the com­mittee a task too fraught with pos­sible danger for them, novices in the field as they know themselves to be, and too vast in its scope for the time available. " 
The committee feels that a single text book has no place in courses of education in normal schools and col­leges. Students should, however, be familiar with the publications of writers ranked as authorities in their respective fields; text books and ref­erence books in abundance should be available for those pursuing courses in education. 
All the committee can hope to do 

Centenary of the Sisters of Charity, Cincinnati, Ohio 
BY SISTER LE0N.4., S. C, M. A. 
The Centenary of the Sisters of Charity, of Cincinnati, Ohio, was obsei-ved on October 27, 1929, in com­memoration of the arrival of four Sisters of Charity, from Emmits­burg, Maryland, who came to labor in the cause of Charity in the great mid­west. Simplicity and dignity marked the entire festal program. 
Sunday, October 27, was Com­munity Day. Solemn High Mass and sermon, a royal banquet, Solemn Benediction, and a presentation in living pictures by novices and postu­lants of the "Spirit of Mother Seton," were thoroughly enjoyed by hundreds of Sisters of Charity and their many religious friends. 
Monday, October 2S, was Memorial Day, and the weather was made to order, grey and chill. Solemn High Mass was sung for the dear departed Sisters. At half past two o'clock an appropriate address was given in the beautiful chapel, after which a pro­cession of the Sisters and students accompanied by the Orphans' Band wended its way to the beautiful Cem­etery where the Absolution for the Dead was given. Floral offerings were placed on the pioneers' graves, "taps" sounded, and the impressive ceremonies came to a close. At sup­per that evening, pictures of the founders and their co-iaborers were thrown on the screen, and all felt that these noble souls were there in spirit to help us rejoice, 
Tuesday, October 29, was Education Day. The students of the College and Academy sang the Solemn High Mass, congregational singing. An eloquent sermon on the priceless value of Catholic education was preached by the Reverend F. W. Dickinson, Ph. D., Vice-president of 
is to present an annotated bibliog­raphy of the publication of recognized writers. Catholic and non-Catholic, in the fields mentioned. If this proce­dure will give helpful direction to the College. A beautiful musical pro­gram was given by the students in the 
evening. 
Wednesday, October 30, was Clergy Day. One hundred priest friends and forty seminarians graced the occasion with their presence at the Pontifical High Mass sung by His Grace, the Most Reverend John T. McNichoIas, O.P., D.D., Archbishop of Cincinnati. Words of encouragement and congrat­ulation came from one and all. Grat­itude swelled the hearts of the Sisters, for these dear friends made possible the work of charity by their coopera­tion and kindly blessing. 
Tuesday, November 26, was Peo­ples' Day at Music Hall, Cincinnati. Here the educational and charitable activities of the Community were dis­played. The Seventh and Eighth Grades of the parochial schools taught by the Sisters of Charity gave tKo three-part choruses that sur­prised and delighted all. The Negroes from the South, the Indians from the West, and the Chinese from the Far East, came with words of gratitude to the Sisters for bringing them to a knowledge of the true God, while the Orphans of Santa Fe and Cincinnati, as well as the Foundlings from every quarter blessed the name of Sister of Charity, again and again. 
The climax was reached when one thousand pupils from Seton and St. Mary, Hyde Park High Schools, the Nursing School of the Good Samar­itan Hospital, and Mt. St. Joseph Academy and College rendered in three parts their "Hymn of Praise" and "Glorious Forever," a fitting close to the festivities of our Centen­ary. 
Sister Leona, S.C, M„A. 
Mount St. Joseph, Ohio. 

even a few teachers enrolled in the courses mentioned, the committee will feel grateful for the opportunity of assisting in some slight way the work of the Catholic teacher. 
206 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS March, 1930 
QlMIIII iiintiniiiintHiiiHiMuiitiiUKiiiiiiiiiKiiiDiii • itiiiiiiMiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiMliiiiiiiitiiiiMiiitiiitii miiiniiiiiiitiiitinninniniiiiniitiimiiminjl 


ATHLETICS: 
B 
iiuniiutiitiii • IllllllllXllllllltll iiiiiiitiiiiiiiii IIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIII •<B 


Nezv Season Ticket Plan for N. D. Stadium 
Season football tickets will be sold under a new plan just announced by 
J. Arthur Haley, '26, business man­ager of athletics. 
Three-year season tickets, guaran­teeing the same seats for every varsity football game in the new-stadium over the three year period, feature the plan. Tickets sell for sixty dollars (560) per ticket for the three-year period, twenty dollars 
($20) for each season. A plan of pay­ment to facilitate the purchase has been evolved by which twenty dollars 
(520) can he paid April 1, 1930, the opening date of sale, a second pay­ment of t\venty dollars (520) on Sep­tember 1,1930, and the third and final payment of twenty dollars (520) on March 1, 1931. 
Purchasers can designate prefer­ence for seats high or low or middle of the stadium. Distribution of the tickets under tliis plan begins at the 50-yard line on the West side of the stadium and moves South. Applica­tions will be filled according to the date they are received in the Athletic Office. 
Each purchaser will be furnished a special application blank for games played by Notre Dame away from home, upon which he may order two tickets, and will receive a preference in the distribution of these tickets. The three-year season ticket purchas­er will receive preference over the single season ticket holder. 
The sale of these tickets begins April 1 and closes September 1, 1930. 
The 1930 schedule at home indicates 
the value to be given in exchange: 
Oct. 4—Southern Methodist 
Oct. 11—^Navy (dedication game) 
Oct. IS—Carnegie Tech 
Nov. 1—^Indiana 
Nov. 15—Drake. 

As if that is not enough, the Ath­
letic Association announces that four games are already assured for the 1931 home schedule — Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Northwestern an d Southern California, with a probable fifth. The 1932 home schedule has not yet been planned, but the two seasons outlined indicate what type of football will be played in the new stadium. Several sell-outs are prac­tically assured in the above schedules. 
The holder of a three-year season ticket has no worry over either ticket or location. 
The Athletic Association is plan­ning to offer the holders of these tickets an opportunity to re-reserve them at the expiration of the 1932 season. 
Single Season A season ticket for the 1930 season will also be placed on sale April 1, for the five home games. The price will be fifteen dollars (515) each—five dollars (55) payable at the time of application, the remaining ten dollars 
(510) payable by August 1. 

Applications will he filled in the order received — first come, first served. The season ticket sale will close September 1. Orders for single season tickets placed after August 1 must be accompanied by payment in full. 
Last year at Soldier Field, Chicago, the entire west side of the stadium was taken by season ticket holders. For the Army-Notre Dame game there this year, season ticket holders will receive priority equal to the same number of season tickets he has pur­chased. The season ticket purchaser's priority for Army tickets, however, is limited to six tickets. Special appli­cation forms for the Army game will be mailed all season ticket holders the latter part of July. Army tickets will go on sale August 1. 
Distribution of the current season tickets will be on the west side of the field, immediately following those allotted on the three-year plan. 
Game Tickets Regular sale of individual game tickets begins August 1. 
Coach George Keogan's basketball team, since the last issue, has taken four of five games to complete a sea­son marked by fourteen victories in twenty starts, a percentage of 70, which is passing, and that's what counts in basketball. 
Coach Keogan has been forced to experiment with a team that had usually sixty per cent new and un­tried material on the floor. He has had to look beyond the game, beyond the season, to a combination that will 
1929S0 BasketbdU ScheduLe 
Dec. 2—N. D. 40, Kalamazoo Col. 16 
Dec 7—N. D. 49. Lake Forest 21 
Dec IS—N. D. S3. Albion 11 
Dec 19—Northwestern 30, N. D. 28 
Dec 23—N. D. 32, Iowa 19 
Dec 28—Ohio State 29. N. D. 22 
Dec 31—N, D. 22, Northwestern 19 
Jon. 7—N. D. 30, Indiana 29 
Jan. 11—N. D. 44, Marquette 29 
Jan. IS—Pitt 33, N. D. II 
Jan. 20—X. D. 29, Mexico City Fal 23 
Jan. 22—il. S. C. 28, N. D. 21 
Jan. 31—^N. D. 26, Wabash 10 
Feb. 4—X. D. 20, Marquette IS 
Feb. S—Pitt 25, N. D. 16 
Feb. 14—N. D. 28, Butler 20 
Feb. 18—N. D. 29. Michigan S. C. 17 
Feb. 22—N. D. IG. Wabash 21 
Feb. 2S—N. D. 29, Butler 16 
Mar. 8—N. D. 24. Pennsylvania 17 

work best for another two seasons; with an eye out for guards to take the place of the veteran all-Westerns, Smith and Donovan. These things hamper immediate victories, entailing, as they usually do, risks for the fu­ture. So that, all in all, Notre Dame has reason to congratulate Coach Keogan and his team on the season just passed. 
Smith and Donovan, the best guard combination in the country, if you'll accept an opinion not entirely per­sonal, were naturally the bulwarks of the quintet. But in DeCook, Sopho­more center, Newbold and Crowe, Sophomore forwards. Coach Keogan has given Notre Dame fans another look at the promised land. McCarthy and Gavin, who saw some service last year, have been valuable in the con­struction of the new machine, as have Ivizer and Conley, reserve guards, and Busch, center. McCarthy led the season's scoring with 103 points. 
The team loses Captain Donovan, Smith, McCarthy and Kizer, and it will take all the reserve development that Coach Keogan has been able to work into this season to overcome this substantial handicap when the next season rolls around. 
In the meantime, Coach Keogan has had the added cloud on his horizon of the coming baseball season, having succeeded Tom Mills as diamond men­tor. The schedule is indication enough of his job: 
Marcli, 19S0 THE NOTRE DAME ALTJMNUS 
1930 BASEBALL SCHEDULE (Tentative) 
April 14—^Armour Tech at Notre Dame. 
April 19-26 — Southern Trip —U. of Florida (2); Georgia Tech (2), and Ft. Benning (2). 
April 30—^Wisconsin at Madi­son. May 3 — Michigan State at East Lansing. May 10 — Iowa at Notre Dame. May 13 — Northwestern at 
Notre Dame. May 16—Illinois at Urbana. May 17 — Northwestern at 
Evanston. May 20 — Bradley at Notre Dame. May 23—Luther at Decorah, 
Iowa. May 24—Iowa at Iowa City. May 26—Michigan State at 
Notre Dame. May 30—^Wisconsin at Notre Dame. May 31 — Navy at Notre Dame. 
TRACK 

John Nicholson's quiet and con­scientious building of a track team at Notre Dame culminated sensationally on February 15, when Notre Dame de­feated Illinois' strong squad for the first time in seventeen years of com­petition. The Notre Dame team scored a 63-32 victory that left no doubt of the dawning of a new track era at Notre Dame. The subsequent season has borne out this promise, but ivith the Illinois defeat most alumni \vill be satisfied, no matter what hap­pens from now on. 
First places were evenly divided, five each. Notre Dame's strong mile relay team and underlying strength, which gave N. D. a second scoring entry in every event except one, ex­plain the score. Notre Dame swept the 8S0-yard run. Illinois had to break two gym records to get as far as they did. Captain McDermott of the lUini broke the pole vault record with a vault of 13 feet, 4% inches. Sent-man, Illini jumper, broad-jumped 22 feet, 11% inches. 
Johnny O'Brien, N. D. hurler, tied his own record in the high hurdles. 
The stamina of the N. D. squad is shown in the following—Roy Bailie took second place in both the high hurdles and broad-jump, besides run­ning the third leg on the victorious relay team. Quigley ran two good races to take seconds in both the mile and half-mile. Wilson, Canadian star, won the 440 with a sensational sprint at the finish, took third in the half-mile and ran anchor on the relay team. Little, the other N. D. Cana­dian star, who left the hospital to run in the meet, won the mile run, and ran the second leg of the relay. 
McConnville, N. D., won the SSO-yard run, and Hoffman won the shot put, to complete the roster of firsts. 
On Washington's Birthday, N. D. met a well-balanced Indiana team in Bloomington and had to break num­erous records to emerge 44-42 victors over the Hoosiers. Marty Brill, foot­ball star, tossed the shot 43 feet, 11 inches for first place and a fieldhouse record. John Abernathy, N. D. high jumper, cleared the bar at six feet, 2% inches. Johnson, N. D., pole vaulted 12 feet, 6 inches lor a first. McCormick, N. D., won a first in the 60-yard dash with 6 4/10, after tying the fieldhouse record of 6 3/10 in the heats. Alex Wilson again starred, with firsts in both the 440 and the 880, setting a record in the quarter and narrowly missing a repeat in the half. 
Wisconsin on March 1 caught Coach Nicholson's men in a slump after the brilliance and strain of the preced­ing meets, and the strong Badger team took full advantage, 54-32. 
Johnny O'Brien, hurdler, strained a muscle in the meet that has kept him out of competition for several weeks. 
Boagni took a first in the 40-yard dash; Wilson placed first in the quar­ter; Johnson took first in the pole vault, and the mile relay team (Cap­tain Abbott, Bradley, Little and Wil­son) came in ahead, to clip the Wis­consin g>'m record by 1 7/10 seconds. 
Profiting from the Wisconsin set­back, Notre Dame entered the Central Intercollegiate meet at Notre Dame on March 8, in competition with a field of 207 entries from fourteen Mid-West colleges, emerging with a decisive first of 38'/2 points, while Marquette took second place with 16ls. A world's record was tied, four meet and gym records broken, and two other meet records equalled in the process. 
Bill McCormick, Notre Dame sopho­more, tied the world's record in the 60-yard dash, 6 2/10. Alex Wilson, another Sophomore, set a new meet and gym record in the 440, when he sprinted across the line in :50.2. 
The mile relay mark was shattered and showed the strength of the Notre Dame quartet. Captain Joe Abbott, running the first leg, stumbled, fell, but rose and completed his race, com­ing in last. Brant Little, Canadian Olympic star, took the baton from Abbott and overcame a five-yard handicap and fim'shed well in the lead, collapsing as he passed the baton to Bradley for the third leg. Bradley held the lead, and Ale.x Wilson ran a fast quarter to win by an even wider margin. 

Bailie, N. D. hurler, broke the meet and gym record in the 65-yard low hurdles wth a :07.2 heat. 
The manner in which Coach Nichol­son has developed the Notre Dame squad in all phases of competition is particularly commendable and the re­sults outlined above indicate his suc-
Comrmmication 

The following letter from John P. Murphy, '12, foi-mer president of the Association, is significant in the de­velopment of the Living Endowment Plan: 
"I have read with great interest Father O'Donnell's article on the needs of the University appearing in the January ALUMNUS, and I'm very much impressed with the appeal that it contains. 
"I have always felt that the alumni as a body have never fully appre­ciated the obligations they owed to the University, not only for the bene­fits they directly derived as students at the University but also for the benefits they indirectly derive by the prestige they share in through the great advances and accomplishments made by the University, which ad­vances and accomplishments are mostly due to the great sacrifices of the reli^ous responsible for the con­duct of its affairs. To every alum­nus Notre Dame has brought many benefits, accountable not only in pride to the alumnus but also in many ways to the material advantage of the alumnus. I look fonvard to the days when the alumni are assuming their just responsibility in connection with the needs of the University, and also to the time when the alumni through their chosen representatives are also giving of their time and money to meet these needs, and I want to as-sui-e the authorities at the Univer­sity, through you, that I will always be ^villing to give of my time and money to help meet my share of this responsibility." 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS March, 1930 
Bi. llllllllllHlllltlllltIi MQ 
El 
BUFFALO 
Dear Jim: 
Things have happened in Buffalo lately and everyone is busy but here goes for better or worse than that you are obliged to read what is to follow and print only that which you think will be best for the poor Buf­falo gang. 
Well on the thirteenth of December 
about all the good Notre Dame men 
in and around Buffalo got together 
and this is what they did. Ed. J. 
Lutz, 91 Beard Ave. was elected Pres­
ident next in line for honors, oh, 
seconds don't count in this. Ed was 
graduated in '24. Gordon Bennett 
was honored as Vice Pres. Gordon is 
an old student. And now for the man 
with the money bag, and it was some 
boodle. Max Kazus—^he was gradu­
ated about '14 or so Marty Ryan, 
'28, has the job of copy boy, errand 
boy and messenger boy in terms of 
the University better give his official 
title Sec. I am suposed to be the 
official correspondent between the 
alumni here, at school and in jail. I 
am delighted to note here none of the 
boys are listed in the latter place. 
Ed has taken hold of the club and 
I wouldn't be a bit surprised if things 
flew a little faster this year than any 
previous year. A meeting of the 
board of governors was held in Jan­
uary when it was decided to do many 
things which will be beneficial to us 
all. A week or so together about 25 
of the boys attended a meeting in 
Canada and discussed the advisibility 
of more. It really was good to see 
so many turn out. Hank Burns came 
over from Tonawanda, Ed Banks was 
found in time—we haven't seen him 
in quite some time. Clyde Schamel, 
our newly married member, got the 
night off and came. .A.1 Boehm, Ed 
Lutz, Marty Ryan and his old side 
kick Tom Kenny brought Bus Irmn. 
There were more but at present their 
names have slipped my mind. We 
missed Biff Lee and his "uke." Biff 
is down at Miami now visiting Rock. 
Had a letter from Bert Burson and 
N. D can be proud of him and expect much from him soon. Ed Baker is home from Boston for a week or so. He sees quite a few of the boys in Boston and the New England States. Ran across J. J. McCarthy from Hart­ford, Conn, a few weeks ago, was an old student back in '25. 
As you know Jim, the backfield is coming to Buffalo the latter part of 

ALUMNI G VJLUBS 
•tlilllllKIIIII 
this month to race Biff Lee Univer­sity of Buffalo's backfield. We are going to do all we can to make their stay remembered and hope that you will let us know whenever any of the boys are passing through so that we can show them the Queen City of the Lakes and her husband, Canada. 
CHICAGO Chicago can boast at least one quiet and dignified election this year, that of the officers for the Notre Dame Club of Chicago for the ensu­ing year, held in the lounge room of the Midland Club, 168 W. Adams St., on the evening of Tuesday, February 25 The whole affair was well planned, the candidates well chosen, the meth­od apparently satisfactory, and the results certainly justifying it all. ' Frank Fitzsimmons, who for the past year has been the efficient sec­retary of the Club, was elected presi­dent and should be able to continue the fine work which he and the retir­ing president, John Costello, handled so capably during the past year. Ed­die Gould was the opposing candidate for the presidency, and the close race was a compliment to both men. James Brennan was elected first vice-president, bringing with him much experience in the Club activi­ties. James Martin was chosen as the second vice-president. George Laughlin and Frank Walsh were the opponents of Messrs. Brennan and Martin. Jim Ronan, secretary of the Lafay­ette Council, K. of C, was made sec­retary of the Club, bringing both secretarial experience and the under­standing of the treasurer's difficulties (which he had last year.) Clifford Noonan will handle the ex­chequer for the Club for the coming year. Mike McDermott was Jim Ro­nan's opponent, while Joe Shelley was the other candidate for treasurer. Judge Kickham Scanlan was the unanimous choice of the nominating committee for Honorary president. Arthur Weinrich, John Nash and Ed Meagher were elected to the Board of Governors. The feature of the evening was an address by the Very Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C, '07, Superior Gen­eral of the Congregation of Holy Cross, a former Chicagoan. The eloquence that won the Breen Medal for an undergraduate seminarian has 
nQ 
been polished with the years and 
deepened with the experiences that 
have brought Father Donahue to the 
highest position in the Congregation. 
His subject was practical, though embodying ideals of the highest. His thesis was an outstanding cultural future for Notre Dame founded upon a corps of lay scholars studying and teaching in conjunction with the members of the Order at Notre Dame. 
Father Donahue pointed out the wider significance of an influential group of lay scholars in affecting the very philosophy and government of this country. With good government resting upon Christian principles, he described the urgent need for intel­ligent Christian teachers. 
His point was, of course, the diffi­culties that face all under-financed and under-endowed Catholic schools. Lay members of the faculty, while they do not expect wealth, must rightfully expect a comfort and as­surance of physical life for them­selves and their dependents while they are pursuing teaching or re­search. Father Donahue spoke with regret of the group of promising young men who leave Notre Dame each year against their own desires because of this handicap. 
The address was scholarly, beau­tifully delivered and worded, and brought out a clear, attainable goal for Notre Dame that found apprecia­tion and enthusiasm. 
Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C, '03, former president of the University, accompanied Father Donahue to Chi­cago, and was a welcome guest in his home city. He is not yet in the best of health and ^poke only a few words of greeting to the Club. 
James E. Armstrong, Alumni Sec­retary, gave a talk outlining some of the possibilities for the cultural de­velopment of the relations between alumni and Notre Dame that are pos­sible even in the earlier stages of or­ganization. Contact with the aca­demic side of the University through professors and organizations, contact with the sources from which students are dra-svn, Knowledge and circulation of the literature that Notre Dame is already producing, cultivation of in­fluential friends, advancement of alumni in the business world,—these were among the suggestions made for Club activities. 

Mar ell, 1900 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Tony Kopecky and Irv Corcoi-an, former Notre Dame Glee Club mem­bers, added to the melody and the Notre Dame feeling that made the meeting so successful. A splendid dinner was an auspicious beginning. 
Several amendments to the Club constitution, aiming at a more definite and satisfactory membership program, were presented by a committee headed by Ed Meagher, with the assistance of Fred Steers, A. A. Van Wonter­ghem, Norm Barry, Frank Egan and Jim Gray. The committee's work is evident in the passage of the amend­ments. 
The whole affair was in charge of Danny Hilgartner, who enlisted the obviously capable assistance of John Byrne, Leo Fettig, Thomas 0. Noon-an, Fred Collins and Jack Mullen. 
The Club Luncheons continue in un­dimnied glory under the directorship of Fred Steers. Prof. Charles Phil­lips, of the University faculty, was a guest speaker in January, the 24th, giving a very interesting address on college education, using the approach­ing Lincoln Birthday as a theme 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY 

The Connecticut Valley gets a large splash of space in this issue through the election of its president, William J. Granfield, '13, to the Congress of the United States. For details, see leading article in this is­sue. The Conecticut Valley Club of Notre Dame, of which Timothy J. Toomey, '30, is president, was among the first to send ocngratulations to the new Congressman. 
DETROIT 

A nominating committee, appointed by Harry Kelly, the retiring presi­dent, has placed the following ticket before the Detroit Club: 
For President—^Alfred N. Slaggert, Dr. W. R. Mulcrone. For Vice-President — Clark Mah­oney, Frank Quish. 
For Secretary—Charles 0. Molz. For Treasurer—Paul Dooley, Urban Hubert. 
The following were nominated for the board of governors, five to be elected: D. P. O'Keefe, F. Henry Wurzer, John Higgins, Harry Kelly, Dan R. Foley, Ray Kelly, John Moore, Leo F. Mclnerny, Joe Collins, Ronald O'Neill. 
The Detroit Club, if present plans are completed, ^vill observe Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner dance. The place has yet to be chosen. Further announcement may be expected in the April ALUMNUS. 
KENTUCKY Dear Mr. Armstrong: At the annual banquet of the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky, held this year at the Brown Hotel, on Feb. IS, the following officers were elected and installed: President—J. R. Brown, (1129 Ev­erett Ave.) 1st Vice-Pres.—C. C. Buschmeyer. 2nd. Vice-Pres.—Joseph M. McGee. Secretary—H. R. Dempf (400 M. E. Taylor Bldg.) Treasurer—Eugene J. Steurle. Board of Directors: James E. Costello, Chairman, 
J. R. Brown, John Dant, 
J. B. Campbell, Frank B. Bloemer. 
A large attendance was present, and unusual interest was expressed in the forthcoming Universal Notre Dame Night. 
H. R. Dempf, Secretary. 

ROCK RIVER VALLEY Dear Jim: Although there has been no formal decision to that effect I think you will be safe in announcing in the next ALUMNUS that the Rock River Val­ley Club will be among those to have a dinner on Universal Notre Dame Night. There will be election of offi­cers at that time as it is just a year since we organized. I was in Chicago on Sunday, Feb­ruary 23, to take the Fourth degree of the Knights of Columbus, at the Palmer House. I did not notice any Notre Dame men that I knew among the 400 odd candidates, but there must have been a number at the ban­quet at night at least, because when the orchestra swung into the "Victory March" at one time there were a great many of the guests who stood to sing it. I suppose I am rather late with the information that John V. Petritz, Rockford, father of Frank J. Petritz, '03, president of the Rock River Val­ley Club, died February 3. He also was grandfather of Joseph Petritz who is now at the University. Sincerely, 
J. Henry Fannan. 
NEW YORK CITY 

A business meeting (at time of press) was scheduled to follow a din­ner on March 11 at the Fraternity Club, 22 E. 38th St., New York City, at which time the Club inaugurates another progressive step in Local Club life with the presentation for adoption of a Club Constitution em­bodjring in black and white as fine a program of activities and platform of aims and ideals as the Rlumni Office has been privileged to receive. As a specimen, the ALUMNUS reprints herewith the objects of the Club as expressed in Article I, Sec 2: 
1—To maintain a fraternal or­ganization for the good, both tem­poral and spiritual, of those grad­uates, former students and professors and benefactors of Notre Dame Uni­versity, whose residence and or occu­pation lies within an approximate boundary of the Metropolitan District of New York City. 
2—^To give good example \\-ithin and without the membership in all the undertakings of the Club, so that the Club may gain for Notre Dame Uni­versity, influence, credit and prestige. 
3—To perpetuate the fine ideals assimilated at Notre Dame University and to develop our membership's in­terest in the welfare of our church, both material and spiritual, and to endeavor to maintain among our members an active interest in their own spiritual lives. 
4—To conduct affairs from time to time for the good of the membership and to strive to make the character of those affairs such that will reflect the goodness and the virtues and the training and influence of Notre Dame University. 
5—To arrange and sponsor lectures and talks by influential and eminent Catholic leaders and educators on subjects of import such as Catholic Lay Action, Christian Education, Catholic Charity, Catholic Culture and other like subjects for the good of the membership and for others within and without the Faith. 
6—To arrange and sponsor edu­cational and cultural undertakings, functions both spiritual and social, that will be for the good of our mem­bership and others. 
7—To gradually develop our Club so that it shall become a regional group of the National Alumni Asso­ciation of Notre Dame University and to assist this Association in the ad­ministration of its affairs for the good of the University of Notre Dame. To observe Universal Notre Dame Night or other function of the National Alumni Association. 
8—To gradually develop our Club so that it will become a strong, order­ly, efficient, enthusiastic organization of good Catholic leaders, and be so recognized in the City of New York by the high purpose of its undertak­
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS March, 1930 
ings, its cultural and spiritual ideals 
and the fine manner in which it con­
ducts its afliairs. 
9—To represent the University of 

Notre Dame in New York City, and 
typify by our conduct the ideals for 
which the University stands. 
The constitutional committee was 

headed by John Q. Adams, and con­
sisted of John T. Balfe, James F. 
Hayes, Ambrose O'Connell, Peter Mc-
EUigott and John Heffernan. 
February 19, the Club, through 

Peter McElligott, chairman of the 
Board of Governors, was invited to 
attend a talk on Catholic Lay Action 
at the Catholic Club, given by Mr. 
Frank J. Sheed, Master of the Cath­
olic Evidence Guild, of London. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA Dear Jim: This letter is long overdue, but I hope it will not be too late for the 
Q-

Births 

Mr. and Mrs. F. N. JOHNSTON, '12, New Orleans, La., are the par­enth of their ninth baby, bom in Feb­ruary. The number is given because the name and date were overlooked, and because in this day and age it represents courage, achievement, and practically all of the other virtues. 
A letter from TWOMEY CLIF­FORD, '14, prosecuting attorney for Ouachita County, Camden, Ark., says among other things: On the 21st 
(Feb.), Twomey Michael Jr., ten pounds of brawn and prospective football material, came to live with us. He is already a candidate for cheer leader, and I assure you his voice is developing rapidly. A daugh­ter, Margaret, together with young Mike, now comprise the balance of my family. 
From Paris, via Mrs. E. J. BECK­MAN, 22 Third St., Alanhasset, L. L, whose husband and Pat were class­mates, comes this: Mr. and Mrs. LOUIS P. HARL, '16, and three junior Harls announce that the name of their daughter and sister, who arrived Jan. 9, 1930, is spelled Anne Elizabeth. Pat and Mrs. Harl live at 92 Avenue Marigny, Fontenay sous Bois, Seine, France. Pat is editing the Paris edition of the New York 
Herald-Tribune. The last issue of Quad Wrangles, 
next ALUMNUS. Universal Notre Dame Night will be observed by the Notre Dame Club of Western Penn­sylvania in a true Notre Dame man­ner by a stag dinner to be held in the Dutch Room of the Fort Pitt Hotel, Pittsburgh, on April 21, 1930. All visiting alumni and their friends are most cordially invited to gather about the well known "round table" and re­call their pleasant memories of Campus Days with the boys of Wes­tern Pennsylvania, who will be there to welcome them on this traditional occasion. 
I also wish you would kindly make the necessary correction in the ALUMNUS relative to our weekly luncheons, which are now being held in Gimbel's Dining Room, Sixth Ave. and Smithfield St., Pittsburgh, every Thursday at 12:15 p. m. 
Charles W. Martin. 

fTuE ALUMNI^ 
the Chicago Club's house organ, car­ries: "The FRANK T. FITZSIM­MONS ('23, newly elected president of the Chicago Club and a candidate for municipal judge), have a daugh­ter, the second one. Her name has not yet been announced." 
The ALUJINUS is informed that Mr. and Jlrs. ARTHUR DIEDRICH, '23, South Bend, are the parents of a son, born March 1. Art's address is 625 W. Washington St. 
Mr. and Mrs. CLARENCE BUNCE, '25, Laporte, Ind., are par­ents of a daughter, Patricia Jean, born on Feb. 13. 
"The EDWIN L. RYANS ('27)," says the Chicago Club's omniscient reporter, "have a son. His name is Edwin L., Tr. He may some day be a fullback. His father was chairman of the football returns committee last Fall!" 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS "TEX" LEARY. '26, Eastland, Texas, are parents of a son. 

Marriages 

Announcement has been received of the marriage of Miss Ruth Fenters, daughter of Mrs. Oscar Baugh, At­tica, Ind., and JOSEPH FITZPAT­RICK, '25, Miami, Fla. Joe is with the City Trust Co. in Florida. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Aaron John­son announce the marriage of their daughter Ruth Isabel to JOHN 
SAN JUAN, P. R. My dear Mr. Armstrong: 
I was very pleased to receive your letter of February 6th, and it shall be a great pleasure for me to celebrate, on April 21st, the seventh annual Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Usually these anniversary celebra­tions are made universal by means of radio broadcasting and frequently I listen to such celebrations from the United States on my Radiola, and if you are planning to make use of the radio, please let me know it so that I may be on the lookout. 
Of the other Notre Dame men, Mr. 

F. H. Usera, is my cousin and Mr. Benjamin Guerra, is a very dear friend of mine, and there are other men who were students at Notre Dame, but did not graduate from it. 
With kindest personal regards, I am, Sincerely yours, 
J. Hernandez Usera. 
..Q 
••luig 

JAMES WALLACE on February 22. John, former end on the Notre Dame team, coach of the freshman squad, impresario of the Monogram Absurd­ities, etc., and Mrs. Wallace are at home by this time in the Mary Apart­ments, Gary, Ind., if their original plans carried. 
Jlr. and Mrs. James E. Hageman announce the marriage of their daughter Margaret Rebecca to ED­WARD J. CONLIN, '28, on Saturday, March 1, Notre Dame, Ind. Ed, and Mrs Conlin are at home at 6930 Greenview Ave., Chicago. 

Deaths I 

JOHN B. MARRE, a student of Notre Dame from '86 to '92, elected . to the Association in '26, and a mem­ber of the Notre Dame Club of Ar­kansas, died after a short illness at his home in Little Rock on Feb. 10. He had been secretary of the Little Rock Aerie of Eagles for the past 14 years. Funeral services were held from the Cathedral. Mr. Marre is survived by his ivife and a son, John 
B. Marre, Jr. Mr. Marre was 52 years of age. 
GEORGE H. KELLY, LL B. '02, died suddenly on the street in Neenah, Wis., February 8. Mr. Kelly was a member of the Notre Dame Club of the Fox River Valley. Mayor John Diener and four other members of the Club drove from Green Bay to Nee­
March, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
nah the following day and said a was a member of the faculty of Holy defense of the Faith and of Notre rosary for the repose of his soul. Cross College there. Dame. He was a contributor to many 
The Congregation of Holy Cross is He had taught at a number of the magazines and newspapers, and was mourning the death of BROTHER schools, and colleges conducted by the highly respected by all who knew him. GILBERT. C.S.C, Ph. B. Education, Congregation, and his unusually large His name before joining the order '24, one of the most able teachers figure was familiar to the students at was James Horton. He was bom in among the Brothers. Brother Gilbert Notre Dame summer schools. Traverse City, Mich., in 1895 and died in New Orleans on Feb. 28. He Brother Gilbert's pen was ready in joined the Congregation of Holy 
Cross in 1913. Brother Gilbert's death was caused 1930 DIX REUNIONS—MAY 30, 31 and JUNE 1, 1930 by high blood pressure with ensuing CLASS SECRETARIES NOTE! CLASS MEMBERS NOTE! 
heart complications. The funeral was held at Notre Dame on Monday, MAKE YOUR PLANS ACCORDINGLY! 
March 3. He is survived by his The line of years at the top viargin designates the years in which reunions are held. The column mother, two sisters, and an uncle, of figures doten the left viargin designates the class year or year of graduation. 
who attended the funeral. Burial was in the Community cemetery. 
1930 193119321933 19341935 1936 1937 1938 1939 1940 1941 1942 1943 1944 
Et. Rev. Aurelius Stehle, O.S.D., 

1939 1939 
the only archabbott in the United 
1938 1938 1937 1937 States, a friend of the University, 
1936 1936 died in Pittsburgh, Pa, Feb. 12 He 1935 1935 
was head of St. Vincent arch abbey 
1934 1934 
at Latrobe, Pa., and chancellor of the 
1933 1933 
1932 1932 1932 Catholic University at Peiping, China. 1931 1931 1931 1930 1930 1930 
1929 1929 1929 1929 Personals 1928 
1928 1928 1928 1927 1927 1927 1927 Before 1880 
1926 1926 1926 1926 1926 Mark M. Foote, 501 City Hall, 
1925 
1925 1925 1925 1924 

1925 Chicago Illinois. 
1924 1924 1924 
1923 1923 It was a great pleasure, at the an­
1923 1923 1922 1922 1922 1922 nual meeting of the Notre Dame Club 
1921 1921 1921 of Chicago, for those of the compan­
1921 1920 
1920 1920 1920 
1919 ionship now classified as of the Golden 
1919 1919 1919 1919 
1918 Antiquity of Notre Dame, to share in 
1918 1918 1918 1918 1918 1917 1917 1917 1917 1917 1917 the election of one of their own, in 1916 1916 1916 1916 1916 the person of-Judge Kickham Scan­
1915 
1915 1915 1915 
1914 Ian, to the office of Honorary Presi­
1914 1914 1914 1914 
1913 dent. 
1913 1913 1913 1913 1912 1912 1912 1912 1912 It brought many happy memories 
1911 
1910 1911 1911 1911 to that companionship—one striking 1909 recollection of the memorable day 
1910 1910 1910 1910 1909 1909 1909 1909 
1908 upon which Notre Dame was en­
1908 1908 1908 1908 
1907 1907 1907 1907 1907 veloped in flames of fire, and of the 
1906 
1905 1906 1906 1906 1906 picture of her noble sons, prominent 1904 1903 among whom, as a leader, was our 
1905 1905 1905 1904 1904 1904 
1903 newly elected Honorary President, 
1903 1903 1903: 1902 1902 1902 1902 fighting valiantly to stay the hand 
1901 1900 
1901 1901 1901 that seemed to threaten utter destruc­1899 1900 tion to their Alma Mater. 
1900 1900 1900 1899 
1899 1899 
1898 1899 
1898 The Judge may be sure of a most 
1898 1898 
1897 1898 
cordial welcome at any of the Friday 
1897 1897 1895 1896 1896 1896 luncheons that he may find it possible 1894 1895 to attend. 
1896 1897 
1895 1895 1893 1894 1894 1894 1894 
1893 1880-1885 
1892 1893 1893 1893 1891 1892 1892 1892 1892 Prof. Robt. M. Anderson, Stevens Inst. 
1890 1891 1891 1891 of Tech, Hoboken, N. J. 1889 1890 1890 1890 1890 
PROF. ANDERSON made several 

1888 1889 1889 1889 1889 1887 1888 1888 1888 1888 suggestions for this issue, which cir­
1886 1887 1887 1887 1887 cumstances have compelled the Editor 
1885 1886 1886 1886 1886 
to postpone until the April issue. 
1884 1885 1885 1885 1885 1883 1884 1884 1884 
Thev are unusually interesting. 
1882 1883 1883 1883 1883 1887 1881 1882 1882 
1882 1882 Hon. Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, 1881 1881 
1881 1881 


1881 Michigan. 
1880 1880 1879 SAMUEL H. NUSSBAUM, who 
1880 1880 1880 
1879 1879 187811878 
187911879 
1878 1878| was a student at Notre Dame from 1884 to 1887, but left the university before his graduation to enter Leip­sic University, Germany, is now a resident of Chicago and has recently been in touch with several men who were students in his own time. Mr. Nussbaum was a native of LaPorte, Indiana, and was a playmate of Fred­eric William Wile, well known alum­nus and foreign correspondent. His father was one of the intimate friends of Father Sorin and his younger brother, Bertram Edward Nuss­
baum, likewise a fonner student, was named after the founder of the uni­versity. Sam Nussbaum specialized in music at Leipsic and was for many years a professional pianist, but eventually growing tired of ai-t, entei-ed upon a business career. He is now with the Mutual Life Insur­ance Company of New York and is located at 175 West Jackson Blvd., Chicago. 
1890-1893 
Louis P. Chute, 7 University Ave., 
Minneapolis, Minn. 

DR. RICHARD C. MONAHAN, 420 Hennessy Bldg., Butte, Mont., sends in verj' encouraging comment: ". . . It (your work) is like lots of things we have to deal with in life. It has its ups and do^vns and looks pretty tough at times. However, I think your organization is doing ver\' wonderful work. I am always glad to do my little bit." 
1894 
Hugh A. O'Donnell, The New York 
Times, New York City. 

Accompanying is another interest­ing illustration from a picture taken in the "Gay Nineties." DR. FR.ANK 
J. POWERS, the University physi­cian now, is in the immediate fore­ground. With him is OTTO ROTH­EET, now a historian, 1397 Sparks Bldg., Louisville, Ky. DR. JOSEPH 
K. COMBE, Bedell Bldg., San Anton­io, Texas, is across the stream. The men in the more remote background are unfortunately unidentiiied. The picture was taken by the late Father Alexander Kirsch, C.S.C, who was then Dean of the department of biol­ogy. The scene is by what was at that time the "old red mill" near Bertrand, Mich., a favorite hiking goal for the students of the decade. 
1895 
Eustace CuUinan, Sr., 860 Phelan Bldg., San Francisco, Calif. 

A letter from HON. IHCHAEL HENNEBRY, Wilmington, IlL, a member of the Illinois Legislature, says, among other things, "I am ad­vised that there is a reunion of the Class of '95, I desire to assure you that I will tiy to be on hand for this reunion. It will be the first time that I have ever attended a reunion of our law class and I am looking for­ward to the reunion with a great deal of pleasure." 
The ALUMNUS hopes that Mr. Hennebi-y's classmates are similarly moved. It is always Reunion time at Notre Dame. 
1905 

Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. La Salle St., Chicago, Illinois. 
DAN O'CONNOR writes that the friends of DAN CULLINAN a stu­dent at N. D. in 1905, will regret to learn of the recent death of Dan's father in Pittsburgh, Pa. Dan him­self is located in Chicago, whei-e, with two other former Notre Dame men, FRANK A. and HOWARD O'NEIL, he is part owner of the Western Foundry Co. 
1906 
Thomas A. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen 
Bldg., Spokane, Wash. 
REV. CHARLES L. O'DONNELL, 
C.S.C, president, has returned from 
several weeks of combined business, 
vacation and illness, but seems, to all 
appearances, to be plunging into the 

weighty executive problems with re­
newed vigor. 
1907 
T. Paul McGannon, 36 W. 44th St, New York City. 

VERY REV. JAMES W. DONA­HUE, C.S.C., Superior General of the Congregation, Breen Medallist of '07, was the speaker at the annual Chica­go CKb election. (See Club news.) 
1908 
Frank X. Cull, Bulkley Bldg, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 

REV. PATRICK J. CRAWLEY, who, upon his arrival in America from County Roscommon, Ireland, made his classical studies at Notre Dame before entering the seminary for his theological work, has been transferred from St. Ann's Hospital, Anaconda, Montana, to St. Joseph's Hospital, Deer Lodge, Montana. Father Crawley has belonged to the Diocese of Helena for more than twenty years, but was compelled to give up active parish work because of ill health, and to devote himself to the equally fruitful duties of hospital chaplain. 
1909 
E. P. Cleary, P. 0. Box 356, Momence, Illinois. 

JOHN McDILL FOX, '09, who was an outstanding student and winner of the Barry elocution medal in his senior year, is one of the best known professors of law at Marquette Uni­versity, Milwaukee. In addition to his teaching he enjoys a large consul­tation practice, specializing in mari­time law. After his graduation at Notre Dame, John taught for a year at St. Edward's College, Austin, Texas. Later he entered law school at Harvard University, where he graduated. At the time of his grad­uation from Notre Dame he was the youngest man ever to have received a degree from this university. John is married and has two children— both girls. 
PAUL R. MARTIN, '09, a prolific \vriter for the Scholastic during his student days, is putting the finishing touches on what good authorities be­lieve will be a valuable contribution to sociological literature and to the literature of Franciscanism. The work is an exhaustive sociological 

March, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
thesis entitled: "The Place of the Third Order Secular of St. Francis in the Program of Catholic Social Action." It will contain about 50,000 words and sheds some new light on the Franciscan social ideal. The work is being done for the graduate school of Loyola University, Chicago. About a year ago Paul wrote a ten part series of travel articles called, "Paths and By-Paths of Catholic Que­bec" which, syndicated through the news ser^^ce department of the National Catholic Welfare Confer­ence was published in most of the leading Catholic newspapers of the counti-y. As a result of another trip made into the northland last autumn, a similar series of articles dealing with the Gaspesian Peninsula and Newfoundland will appear in the 
Catholic newspapers during the com­ing spring. Paul was sent to New­foundland by the foreign news sei'­vice department of the Chicago Daily News and wi-ote a series of articles on the economic aspects of "the Great Island" which was published in the Daily Netvs during the winter. It is likely that the two series of Catholic articles may be expanded for book publication and the manuscript of another book by him on "Realism in the JModern Drama" is awaiting such time as its author may find leisure to revise it. As a steady job Paul is publicity director of the Ravinia Opera Company at Chicago. 
REV. THOMAS OSWALD MA­GUIRE, '09, is now pastor of a par­ish at West Beloit, Illinois. Father Tom was oi-dained for the Diocese of Rockford in 1913 and after several years spent as a curate in one of the big parishes at Rockford was ap­pointed as pastor at Polo, Illinois. He was transferred to West Beloit about a year ago. He is a brother of the Rev. Joseph Maguire, C.S.C, formerly 

professor  of  chemist'i-y  at  Notre  
Dame.  
1910  

Rev. M. L. Moriarty, 527 Beall Ave., Wooster, Ohio. 
A special delivery letter (and very few Class Secretaries do that, by the way) brings a few notes from FATHER jnKE: 

GEORGE P. WALSH—Pat in the old days—is connected with William Koehl, architect, Euclid Ave., Cleve­land, 0. He claims to be working day and night on Churches, schools and other industries. The Koehl con­cern designed the new school at Im­maculate Conception Church, Woos­ter, Ohio. 
"RED" Miller reports that MILES SINNOTT has been sojourning and laboring in Cleveland. Sinnott hopes to locate in Cleveland rather than Wooster. 
ARTHUR KLISE,'26, is associated here with his father in the Kemro Co. Fifty percent of the stock in the Notre Dame-Wooster Club belongs to .A.rt. 
L. B. ANDRUS, vice-president of the Central Indiana Power Co., an InsuU holding, was busy last month testifying before the Indiana public service commission for the proposed $70,000,000 merger of the InsuU util­ities in Indiana. "Andrus outlined numerous improvements made by his company, asserting that a $2,000,000 construction budget was outlined for this year." 
1911 
Fred L. Steers, 1666 First Natl. Bank 
BIdg., Chicago, Illinois. 

The Class Secretary has been active in the Notre Dame Club of Chicago (see Club notes, if you won't take the word of the Editor, an eye-witness to one of the more recent episodes.) 
E. K. DELANA writes a note to say that on a recent ti-ip to Portland and Seattle, he had the pleasure of seeing "ROSY" DOLAN, now teach­ing at the Oregon Agricultural Col­lege, Corvallis, Ore. 
1912 
Edmund H. Savord, Box 135, Sandusky, Ohio. 
REV. CHRISTOPHER BROOKS, C.S.C, one of the most successful Catholic missionaries in India, had a harrowing experience recently when he engaged in the doubtful spoi-t of wrestling with a huge Bengal tiger, bare-handed. The tiger was threaten­ing Fathex- Brooks parishioners, and the priest leaped to the struggle with­out hesitation. He was seriously wounded, but is reported to be al­most completely recovered. 
F. N. JOHNSTON, 4534 S. Tonti St., New Orleans, drops a note to an­nounce the ninth baby (see Births). "I should like to see some of the boys of '12 match that," he adds. "Five of them are boys, and I hope all foot­ball players. In a few years I want to see a steady reign of Johnstons on the campus. Notre Dame seems to have neglected Louisiana, for I sel­dom see many N. D. men, but enjoy reading the ALUMNUS . . ." 
1913 
James B. Devitt, 921 Engineers BIdg., Cleveland, Ohio. See leading article, this issue! 
1916 
T. P. Galvin, 708 First Trust Bldg, Hammond, Indiana. 

A letter recently came into the Of­fice from CHARLES REAGAN, ask­ing for the Mexican address of LINO ZAPATA. The writer is now with Paramount Famous Lasky Corp., 116 
W. Michigan St., Indianapolis. 
1917 
John U. Riley, 244 Washington St., Boston, Massachusetts. 

SAM FEIWELL has announced his candidacy for the Democratic nomina­tion for prosecuting attorney, for which SAM SCHWARTZ, '13, has al­so filed. Mr. Feiwell who is living at 705 W. Wayne St., came to South Bend in 1906 from Chicago, where he was born. He was educated in the public schools and at Notre Dame. He was admitted to the bar before gi'aduation. He saw service after graduation and was overseas thirteen months, part of the time with the army of occupation in Germany. He has never held public office. He is a member of the Masonic and Eik lodges. 
DANIEL A. HILG-4.RTNER, Jr., '17, is reaping the reward of long and meritorious sei^vice with the classified advertising department of the Chica­go Tribune, having recently been pro­moted from the Loop office of the Tribune, where he was manager, to another responsible executive position which takes him to the Tribune tower. There is no more loyal alumnus on the roster than Danny, who during the year makes frequent trips to No­tre Dame to gain fresh inspiration among his old friends on the campus. What is more, Danny is raising his son to be a Notre Dame man, and has so far succeeded that Danny the Third refuses to go to sleep at night unless his bed is covered with a No­tre Dame blanket which once belonged to Johnny Smith. 
PAUL FOGABTY, '17, recently made his debut at the Friday lunch­eons of the Notre Dame Club of Chi­cago. He recalled the stirring war days commencement of 1917 which like\\ise marked the diamond jubilee of the university. Paul created much amusement by telling how, when he left Fort Benjamin Harrison to go to Notre Dame for his degree, he tried to make himself look like a real army officer by wearing a pair of leather puttees. He could not find a pair that fit properly with the result that when he walked across the stage to re­ceive his diploma from the hands of 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS March, 1930 
the presiding bishop, the puttees turned around the calves of his legs until they were completely backwards. 
1920 
Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black BIdg, 
Los Angeles, Calif. 

HENRY McCULLOUGH, secre­tary of the N. D. Club of the Tri-Cities, was rightfully perturbed when his Class was erroneously listed in the Club Directory as '23. In part, ". . . my Classmates will consider me a disgrace. I have no desire to appear younger—my age hangs lightly on my 'sooty brow.' What in h is the matter with the Class of '20? Where is DICK SWIFT of Davenport, OBIE O'BRIEN of Rochelle, EDDIE CLANCY of LaSalle, 111., DICK LES­LIE of Waverly, la., and I could go down the list. Why don't some of the boys contribute to our Class Notes? I myself have been neglectful but have made a new resolution. 
"I bump into Notre Dame men every^vhere. CARLETON BEH of Des Moines, EARL WALSH of Des Moines, ART SHERIDAN, Waukon, Iowa. . . . Where is WALTER O'KEEFE of radio and night club fame? Where are PAUL CONA­GHAN, TOM BEACOM, LYLE MUSMAKER, FR. TOM TOBIN, and AL SLAGGERT? 
"I also see WALLY WEINEICH of Burlington, Iowa, TOM LEE of Minneapolis, and some of the other boys up there, BARNEY DUNN of Mason City, Iowa, MORRIS KERNDT of Lansing, Iowa, cousin of FE. KERNDT HEALY, C.S.C, GUS KERNDT, also of Lansing, and WILL and CHARLIE KERNDT, TOM DONOVAN of Chicago, J. PATRICK SULLIVAN, formerly of Muscatine, la., now of Chicago. . . ." 
HARRY RICHWINE, LL.B. '20, has been elected exalted ruler of the South Bend lodge of Elks for the year beginning April 1. Harry's election was unanimous. 
1921 
Alden J. Cusick, 530 Grant St., 
Denver, Colorado. 

A number of cards have been re­ceived by AL. CUSICK. 
"Certainly pleased to see that you are approaching this weighty question of Class publicity with your custo­mary vigor. Nothing startling has occurred in my sphere of experience of late. I am leading a quiet, calm existence despite the fact that I'm in Detroit; you've probably read all about us in Mr. Liggett's article in P/ot?i Talk (adv.). Please convey my 
sincere regards to any of our common 
friends you may chance to rcie&t • . . 
ALFRED N. SLAGGERT." 
"Not interested in bursting into print but just want to report I am still alive and can be reached, care of Midland Bank, Cleveland, Ohio.— JOSEPH H. THOMPSON." 
"Here are the facts: address—706 Plaza Bldg. (Pittsburgh, Pa.); occu­pation—^la\V}-er; condition of ser\-i­tude—single; financial standing—de­cline to rate; health—good; disposi­tion—charming; honorarj' degrees— none; former convictions—none; pend­ing indictments—none. No hits, no runs, no errors. JIM O'TOOLE." 
"Had the fortune of looking up BILL PURCELL in Kansas City about two weeks ago. He happens to be setting an excellent pace in the hardwood industry. I happen to be the "old man" of two husky ail-Amer­icans, one 3, the other 5. Following up engineering. In the general con­tracting office. South Bend, Ind. AL ABRAMS." 
"We're figuring on the building of a new $100,000 theatre in Rochelle and yours truly will become manager. Both kids doing iine. Wife O. K. and I'm K. O. at ring time, tipping the scales at 230. Best regards. OBIE (O'BRIEN)." 
"I have two embryonic halfbacks, aged five years and t\vo years, that should be ready for Notre Dame in 1945 or 46. Am training them myself. PAUL A. MCDONALD, 186 E. Broad St., Columbus. Ohio." 
". . . At the annual meeting of the Chicago Club held last night FRANK FITZSIMMONS was elected president and ED MEAGHER was elected a member of the Board of Governors. JIM MURTAUGH is a confirmed bachelor unless he has been sweetly getting com-inced that he should be a benedict. . . . BILL ALLEN." 
"As far as news is concerned '21 seems to be quite dead—however, I'll take this occasion (free postcard) to report on a few of the boys that adorned the campus in our day. DUKE lONNEY, MAL GOOLEY and JIM HUXFORD are all very much alive in Syracuse. At the Army game met several more, among them BILL NEARY and TOM SHEEN, now Dr. Sheen of St. Vincent's Hospital, N. 
Y. C. BRANDY writes that every­thing is 0. K. up in Ogdensburg. . . What's the chance of getting together at the Navy game? Kindest regard. LEO D. KELLY." 
"Greetings to yourself and Class of '21, accompanied by best wishes for 
health, hapiness and success. Your letter brought back to me a thousand treasured memories of old N. D. Those were happy days. Wish to say that I have kept up correspondence with a few of our Class, but the ma­jority have become lost to me. From any of these I should be pleased to hear after these nine years. Well, Al, I am in Detroit, teaching the subjects of Evidence, Damages, Bailments and Carriers, and Justice Court practice at the University of Detroit Law School situated near the heart of this dynamic city, and at 651 E. Jeffer­son St. I like the work very much. Our law school, though only a few years of age, has a library of 20,000 volumes and is located in a practically new four story stone building with all classrooms large and airy. The en­rollment is ai'ound 250 and is a peppy bunch of budding lawyers. We offer a splendid course of instruction which includes additional courses in Michi­gan practice and procedure, making the school exceedingly popular with Michigan students in particular. Our failures at the Michigan bar exam­ination are practically negligible not­^\-ithstanding the large classes taking the same. As you no doubt know, like many others of our Class, I am married. Have two fine children, Ed­ward, aged four, who seems legally inclined already, and Rose Ann, aged two, the queen of the household. Your old friend. A. T. BRAY." 
"There is no news to tell about me. I am still teaching the t\vo opposite poles in the sciences: Theology and Chemistry. I am expecting Dr. Nieuwland in St. Bernard about April 5 and will probably accompany him to the Chemical convention in Atlanta. 
P. BENEDICT OBERDOERFER, O.S.B." 1922 Gerald Ashe, 1024 Monroe Ave., Rochester. N. T. 
DON EASILY is now associated with Edward Gore & Co., Public Ac­countants, Chicago. 
The advertising game has lured JIM McCABE into the fohl. Jim is in the Chicago Tribune's advertising department. 
Lest we forget, FRANIQE BLAS­lUS in Logan, Ohio, is busy just now-creating the very latest in spring and summer fashions and also manages to interest himself in civic affairs. 
Those of you who contemplate matrimony should get in touch with WILFRED DWYER, London, Ohio. In case you do not know it, "Wilf" is in the furniture business, and no 
March, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
doubt he will furnish your home free of charge. 
South Bend claims as it's citizens a good share of our classmates. Here are a few: EARL DICIvENS, JIM DOOLEY, CYRIL FITES, RED PADEN , HAROLD WEBER, LEO LOVETT, PAUL SCHWERTLEY, CLEM HAGERTY, LEO "SPIDER" MAHONEY, EDWIN J. McCARTHY, GEORGE HENEGHAN, WALTER SHILTS, and EDDIE HERBERT. 
ZEICE JONES is doing the best he can %vith Di.xon, III., ever since JERRY DIXON pulled up stakes in favor of the enterprising town of JJockford. 
WILLIAM A. A. CASTELLINI, Public Relations Director of the Brotherhood of Railway Clerks Na­tional Bank, was unanimously re­elected vice-president of the Central Vine Street Business Association at the annual election last month. Bill is also an account executive of the Archer Advertising Company of Cin­cinnati and Los Angeles; a governor of the Advertisers' Club of Cincinnati, and secretary of the Cincinnati branch. National League of Commis­sion Merchants of the United States. 
1924 
James F. Hayes, 358 Fifth Ave., New York City. 
Comes this, from a champion of the 

Class Secretary: 
"When the very fine copy of the 

ALUMNUS arrived (not an adv.) 
last month, and incidentally it's the 
first that has found its way into my 
possession for a long time. I planned 
to \vrite a huge check which of course 
could never be cashed and then \yhen 
it was sent back, I could send a smal­
ler one saying that my broker had 
just informed me that the stock mar­
ket had cleaned me out. The check 
I do enclose (not an adv. either) is to 
defray expenses for some more por­
traits of famous men as Shuster, Ker­
vick, Hugh O'Donnell and Flannery 
which afforded everybody much de­
light in glancing through the last is­
sue. 
Since JIM HAYES and myself 

moved to Brooklyn we see no one and 
no one sees us, which probably ex­
plains the impression written in the 
ALUMNUS that Hayes is still in the 
subway. Jim has figured it out that 
we spend three days a month, or 
thirty-six days a year in the Subway, 
going to and from work. He would 
like to use that time sleeping, the 
equivalent of two ordinary vacations. 
'I saw BILL CBONIN the other 

day, Fr. McBride's old sec. He has just been here five months, and only got around yesterday to call up BIG FRANK DUFFICY and myself to have lunch with us. 
'It was good to see HARRY FLAN­NERY in print again. If he goes about the new paper as industriously as he worked when he lived with Hayes and myself at 64 E. 34th St., it should be a good one. I've often seen Flan get up in the morning at 
7:30 and still in pajamas sit down at a typewriter for a couple of hours and finally look at the clock and say, oh, hell, I guess I'd better eat some breakfast. 
"I had a most interesting letter from TOM COOKE from Florence. In the upper comer he had sketched an interior something like an old rathskeller and at a table sat a man and woman drinking from several large bottles. Tom likes Italy and Sicily best, and says they haven't seen the last of him by any means. He also told of seeing GEORGE CHAO, '25, who is studying for his doctorate at Fribourg, Switzerland. He said George knew more about the results of N. D. football than Grant-land Rice. He reports that George speaks English, French German, and Italian, besides four dialects in his own language. 
"We heard an interesting man the other evening who I believe is one of the founders of the Catholic Evidence Guild in England. They are soap­box Catholic laymen who talk on street comers and teach Catholic dog­ma. At the end of the lecture a number of N. D. men gathered for an informal meeting so when he was introduced to us later he said, "You men from that college out near Chi­cago seemetl to create a large part of my audience." 
"Hayes threatens to write you some news, probably about Al Smith's new building, but I'll leave that to him. CHARLES 0. DE BARRY." 
Which was nice of Charley, but which doesn't gain anything for Hayes but a short stay of execution. 
EDWARD S. SULLIVAN writes from 125 E. Suttenfield St., Fort Wayne, Ind. "It seems to be getting a habit with me to write you each year in order to notify you that I have again changed my address. This time, however, I hope will be my last, at least for some time, as X am back in the old home town. I am now as­sociated with the Home Tel. and Tel. Co. here, acting in the capacity of equipment engineer. I have been in this branch of the telephone business since leaving N. D. Previous to my coming to Fort Wayne I spent thir­teen months in the equipment engi­neering department of the Moimtain States Co., in Denver. 
"My stay in Denver although short was very pleasant. This was mostly due to the entertainments arranged by the N. D. men FRANK CONWAY, GEORGE THOMAS, LOUIE HOUGH, DAVE HICKEY and many others. On my way East, I stopped in Chica­go and visited iivith STAN JACOBS, '23, and BERNIE MEAGHER. Stan is associated with Concannon and Dil­lon, lawyers, and is doing nicely. Bemie is still with Commonwealth Edison and has been given complete charge of voltage regulation on the South Side." 
The Alumni Secretary is the proud owner of a beautiful rosary, a St. Sabina rosary, brought from Rome, blessed by Pope Pius, XI. The beads are richly indulgenced and protect against sudden and unprovided death. Inside the cross are a conite from the Catacombs, a piece of wood from an orange tree supposed to have been planted in the 16th century by St. Dominic and still growing strong, and a bit of "Agnus Dei" wa.\-. The greatly appreciated gift came from Father DON G-ALLAGHER, St. Mary's Rectory, Potsdam, N. Y. Don also sent one to JOE CASASANTA, who is equally appreciative. 
RAYMOND P. DOHR dropped a note recently about several things, from his law office in Appleton, Wis., inspired in one of them, he added, by the coincidence of Lincoln's birthday. 
E. B. MILLER has left South Bend and is now in the offices of Bradshaw and Weil, 605 Broadway, Paducah, Ky. 
1925 John W. Scallan, PaUman Co., 79 W. Adama St., Chicago, III. 
If the Armstrong child's morals get no more support from Godfather Scallan than the Class column gets, morality is about to be dealt a crush­ing blow. 
Nevertheless, this June Reunion will come off as per schedule and no alibis accepted. Scallan will un­doubtedly, like Phil Sheridan, come riding from some miles away in time to save the day. 
The arguments, showing that even the young men can shatter the shackles of servitude for that par­ticular occasion without hanging out a welcome mat for the wolf, appear elsewhere in this issue. 
What do you want in the way of appeals? We have a choice assort­
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS March, 19S0 
ment, as yet unpicked by any other 
Class. Moustache, (or even beard) 
contest, large families competition, a 
De-Bunked History of our Four Years 
in College—the possibilities are not 
only stimulating but appalling. Write 
your suggestions to Scallan, Pullman 
Car and Mfg. Co., 79 W. Adams St., 
Chicago, idle rumor has it. 
EUGENE HAUBER, who was in 

the unclaimed files for a while, is at 
3625 Blaine, St. Louis, Mo. 
TOMMY GOSS writes a note from 

the U. S. Gypsum Company's Harris­
burg, Pa, office. Tom is reported to 
be planning attendance in June. 
NORB SICELLEY has had his ter­

ritory changed and is back in Salina, 
Kansas, C36 E. Iron Ave. Norb says 
he saw JOHN CARLIN, '28, in Lib­
eral recently. Business in Kansas is 
great, Norb explains in what seems 
to be a unique passage, and the coun­
try about there is the best business 
center in the U. S. (little competi­
tion if other reports are true). 
JOHN R. MORAN, one of THE MORANS of Oklahoma, drops a note announcing that beginning with last March 1, he became associated with Hayes and Richardson, attorneys. Col-cord Building, Oklahoma City. John had been in St. Louis preriously, with one of those large and popular firms in which Methusaleh would have died two years short of a partnership through the seniority system. The feature of the letter—^"hope to see you and the rest in June." 
1926 

Gerald W. Hayes, 4700 W. Jackson Blvd, Chicago, 111. 
HAYES is on sabbatical leave or 

something this month. In his ab­
sence: 
VIC YAWMAN writes a very in­teresting and appreciated letter from Rochester, where he is, from other sources of information, doing a most creditable piece of work in connection with his father's business. Vic is anxious to get in touch with Notre Dame in just the way that the new movement toward continuing intel­lectual relations with alumni hopes to accomplish, educationally, as well as socially and sentimentally. Vic writes that he realizes that Notre Dame training has helped him in many things and only hopes that some way can be evolved to continue it in spite of differences in location These are the letters that encourage development along those lines. Vic hopes to be out for the Navy game ne.xt Fall. 
GEORGE P. "DUTCH" O'DAY, 

JIM RONAN (the new Secretary of 
the Chicago Club) writes, is district 
manager of the Clow Gasteam Radia­
tor Co., Detroit, liWng at 17181 Rose-
lawn Ave., Detroit. 
VIC LEMMER has been actively 

promoting Notre Dame interests in 
various forms, while promoting his 
own personal and business insurance 
(twenty-six specific kinds on the let­
terhead) through P. O. Box 61, Iron­
wood, Mich. 
EDDIE FALLON sends a note 

from the furor of preparation for the 
N. \. Bar exams to say that he, TOM and JOE BURICE, JIM DWYER, PAT CANNY and JOE HYLAND are taking the thing seriously. 
SID EDER, in spite of South Bend prosperity, dropped a note re­cently from his office that was filled with appreciation. Sid is in partner­ship with SAM P. SCHWARTZ, '13, who has just filed as a candidate for the Democratic nomination for prose­cuting attorney. Sid's business ad­dress is 124 N. Main St. 
1927 Edmund De Qercq, 8200 S. Ellis Ave^ Chicago, ni.. Secretary. 
The following notes are from a member of the Class that knows whereof he speaks, but prefers the modest custom of omitting a by-line. Dear Jim: 
Month after month, I have noticed the absence of the 1927 class in the ALUMNUS, so I thought I would sit down and see if I couldn't help out a little bit and try to give the class a little space in the ALUMNUS for next month. 
I am not much at writing this stuff Jim, but I will do my best to give you some dope on some of the mem­bers of the 1927 class. 
By the way HUGH McCAFFERY graduates the 2Sth of this month from Kelly Field, Texas. He is taking up a\'iation and will be a second lieu­tenant in the Army. His brother JOE who was at school for a few months is a second lieutenant in the Marines, so you can see it is a family affair. 
JOE BOLAND is coaching at St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minnesota. Joe had a good season last year win­ning the Championship of the state, which isn't bad the first year out as a head coach. 
JOE MAX'S^'ELL is located here in Phila. He is a professor at the same high school as where I draw my pay check every month. Joe is teaching English and making a fine job of it. Joe played a lot of pro ball last Fall and he did it so well that he made 
the All-Professional team which is 
quite a feather in anybody's cap. Joe 
said he is going to give it up for the 
last three years, but I think he likes 
the game too much to do any thing 
rash like that. 
I had a letter from BERNIE AB­

ROTT sometime ago and he figures 
on branching out to be a big league 
manager. He was running a team in 
the California Winter-League, but he 
never let me know how they came 
out, or maybe they were put out. 
Would appreciate a letter from 
Bemie. 
Our friend " "RED" RICHARD 

SMITH was just made head baseball 
coach at Georgetown University. This 
looks like a Notre Dame reunion, as 
Tommy Mills, Tim Moynihan and 
John Colrick are also down there for 
football. 
JIMMY' QUINN the flash from Rahway, is a mystery man. I don't know whether he turned detective or not, but hardly any one ever sees him at a Notre Dame function. You know Jim got married, and perhaps this has something to do with his disappear­ing act. All his friends want to know when he is going to have his coming out party. 
CHARLEY McDERMOTT is lo­cated in New Y'^ork now. He is on the Curb market, and from his re­ports he is responsible for the recent flop of the market. 
PAT CANNY is working for the Erie Railroad. I expect to see Pat at the Penn-Notre Dame basketball game on March the 8th. 
JOE GARTLAND spent a few days with me. He is in the banking busi­ness in Boston, and it wouldn't sur­prise me a bit to see Joe making a name for himself in the Boston finan­cial world. 
ART MONACO has also taken up the bank profession in Newark, but Art better watch himself or they will be taking him up. I understand he is making a name for himself in the banking circles around Newark. Keep your head. Art, and watch those wild women around Newark and vi­cinity. 
My pal BOB SHIELDS is still sore at the world. I spent a few days with Bob last Summer and I will never forget them. From the time we got up and until the time we re­tired, he was always griping about something. Bob is a great guy. 
JOHNNY HOWARD is working for the Telephone Company, of Long Island. He had an offer to take a screen test but he passed it up in favor of his gal around the home to\vn. 
I understand BART FAVERO 
said "yes" to some girl around Pitts­
burgh. Nice going, Bart. How is the 
furniture business? 
JOE WHALEN has buried himself 
up at Han-ard. He is an honor stu­
dent of his class, but we always ex­
pected that of Joe—that's what he 
gets for living ne.\t to nie in Sorin. 
I hear LOU CONROY is coaching 
at Detroit U. Nice going Lou, and 
don't forget George's delayed offense. 
HARRY O'BOYLE was just ap­pointed head coach of a school up around Boston. Harry was at Holy Cross last year. By the way, Harry is manned. There are only a few of us left, including EDDIE Mc-LOUGHLIN. 
They tell me TOM NASH looks the part of a regular politician. That is he has the big bay window and a big black cigar. They tell me JOE BELLA MARIA is chasing Mayor Thompson all over Chicago for back pay. I will put my money on Joe, because his track e.xperience will come in handy. I hope EDDIE Mc-LOUGHLIN has passed the bar e.xams. I am a little bit worried about Eddie, because I figure he misses my knowledge of the Law. They tell me RAY McCLORY is burning the law profession up in old Chi, along with FRANK McCURRIE. 
JOHN McMANMON has taken the Nursery business seriously. He is working for his Dad, when he isn't coaching at Boston College. John has been going great guns up there for the past two years. 
I wish BUD BOERENGER would drop me a line. I have a new line of chewing tobacco I wish him to try out so be can give it his 0. K. I had a salesman in to see me the other day and he told me he called at De­troit to sell some stuff, but the fel­low scared him to death. I asked him his name and he said Boerenger. If I were you Bud, I would shave once in a while. 
I hear JOHN NYIKOS is still with the Akron Tire Co., but a tough man to get hold of. How about it John? 
TOMMY GREEN, the personality kid of the '27 Class, is doing big things around the home to^vn. I understand Tom went in the shipping business and he has the boats doing tricks. Stay in there. Tommy. 
I met PAT COHEN at the Army game and he tells me he is teaching Latin in a Catholic high school. Will wonders never cease ? 
JIMMY JOJIES is going in for the hotel idea in a big way. He is run­ning one in Reading for his Dad so anytime you are up around there stop in and put an eye job on. 
Last month's communication had some stimulating virtue. The returns this month indicate what can be done with cooperation: 
JOE O'DONNELL, Room 1042, 105 
W. Adams St., Chicago, writes: ED RYAN is with the A. C. AUyn Co., doing promotion work, and is also the proud father of Edwin Leo, Jr., born Jan. 29. JACK PATTON writes from the wilds of South Dakota that he was recently jjromoted to the posi­tion of assistant cashier of the Mitchell National Bank. Jack is still unmarried. FRED DEUTSCH writes from Ashland, Wis., where he is doing efficiency work for the Slarathon Paper Co. Freddie reports 32 degrees below zero in the North Counti-y. MIKE McDERMOTT sells advertis­ing space for the Chicago Tribune, and his work keeps him busy all the time. BOB STEPHAN is associated with EDDIE GOULD, '23, in the flower business. Bob is very active in Chicago alumni activities, especially elections. DAN CUNNINGHAM reports every so often from the huge city. Still gets up in the small hours and goes to bed in the smaller hours. He keeps busy supplying food to the yachts and ships in the harbor. BILL CORBETT is with the Foreman Na­tional Bank in Chicago, buying and selling high grade municipal bonds. Bill never changes—the waiters still remember him. GENE BRENNAN is reported to be selling gi-anite but the name of the iirni is missing. He manages to get to lunch with RAY JIURNANE and the boys once in a while. Last reports place FRANK HAGENBARTH in Minneapolis, in the offices of the Harris Trust and Savings Bank. JOHN HALPIN and SNUBBER MURPHY have been seen in Chicago, but no further reports. BILL HALLORAN is reported en­gaged. RAY ERNST is on his father's farm just outside of Aber­deen, So. Dak. JIJEVIIE JAY is re­ported from Dayton, 0., but the na­ture of his line could not be deter­mined. TOM O'CONNOR still writes from Bellefontaine, 0. JOE BO­LAND, head coach at St. Thomas, seems to be hitting things up to a fax'e-thee-well." 
FRANK OEHLHOFFEN has re­turned from a sales trip for the Ban­tam Ball Bearing Co., South Bend. 
The ALUMNUS is fortunate in get­ting from Frank a few of the facts about the N. D. men he met: SAM KEHOE is supervising the revising of rates for the Houston Lighting and Power Co. in Houston. Sam oblig­ingly showed me his fair city over thn week-end. He is very much inter­ested in the other members of the '27 Class and would be pleased to hear from some of the boys. I also saw HORACE SPILLEE, who is taking a flying course at San Antonio. He re­ports that HUGH McCAFFEEY is about ready to leave there. (Ed. Note: Lt. HUGH McCAFFEEY and a fel­low officer were campus visitors re­cently. Hughie is waiting for an appointment to one of the Govern­ment flying fields, after a short vaca­tion at home in Philadelphia.) JOE BEOUSSARD is busily engaged in rice milling in Beaumont but does not appear to be losing any weight from overwork. JOE HEBERT is also in the same business. I guess he helps Joe Broussard. TEX COSTELLO is in Dallas in the automobile busi­ness. He has been married for three years. He was also interested in the members of the Class and would like to hear from them. EOB ROY in Shreveport, La., is drilling oil wells and playing golf with JIMMY COWLES, DON LASKEY and BILL JASPER. This is the town that made the "southern hospitality" famous. All of the above mentioned expect to be back for either the Army or Navy game in the Fall and are planning on a grand reunion. Rob Roy would like to hear from BILL DAVIS and some of the other "greasy necked" en­gineers. CHARLES HOMEE is in St. Louis selling cement and giving ROBERT C. DUNN advice on how to run the button stretchers in his laun­dry. When I returned I found a let­ter from BUD C.4.ETIEE, who writes from Sheridan Eoad, Chicago. What he is doing he did not say but he expects to be back in March." 
EDWAED F. BEODEEICK has formed a partnership in law with PauFJ. O'Neill under the firm name of O'Neill and Broderick, general practice, 17 Academy St., Newark, 
N. J. 
708 Eighth Ave., 
Bethlehem, Pa. 
March 5, 1930. 

Mr. James E. Armstrong, Editor The Notre Dame Alumnus, Notre Dame, Indiana. Dear Jim: 
Gangway! Hold that press! Call back yonr linotype operators! 
Unangelically, I rush to the aid of Edmund De Clercq, secretary of the "Noted 'Un-Noted' Class" of 1927, though I know him not, neither do I "go out" «'ith his sister, if he has one, or work for his father. 
It is simply the spirit of Notre Dame, the knowledge that all Notre Dame men are brothers, that causes me to tap on my by this time! throb­bing typewriter, in defense of Secre­tary De Clercq and as a challenge to the annonymous letter writer, some tid-bits about some of the members of their class. 
Already, Jim, in my mind's-eye, I can see the sneer that will becloud the pleasant and amiable-looking coun­tenance of "Louie" Buckley, secre­tarj' of the Class of 1928, when he reads this drivel, if it is lucky enough to get by, in the ALUMNUS. "Trai­tor," indubitably "Louie" will hiss; "why doesn't he contribute some news about the members of his own class? He's been out of school at least a year and a half and not a word, not a woz'd, mind you, have I yet received from him in all that time. And he supposed to be awriting man! Bah! Traitor!" 
Well, anyway, here goes: 
Hugh L. Campbell, Jr., interhall football player and ardent Badinife, who so far as is known is the only treasurer of the East-Penn Club that at the end of the scholastic year re­ported a blance in the club ti-easury, is causing the name of Notre Dame to be revered and respected in his home town, Hazleton, Pa. Unassum­ing and reticent "Hughie" is the sup­erintendent of the Hazleton Brick Company, manufacturers of Hazle brick, Hazle block and crushed stone. In case you dont' know, this brick company is the largest of its kind in the coal regions and has one of the most modem plants in the entire state. Safely can it be said that "Hughie," who has an M. E. degree from Universitas Nostrae Dominae a Lacu, is one of the youngest brick-company superintendents in the Key­stone state. 
I learned only recently of the exalted position which this young man occupies among the citizeni-y of Hazleton, a city of forty thousand souls and, take it from me, very few heels. I was up there recently io cover a basketball game and, desir­ing to combine business with pleasure, told "Hughie" in advance that I ex­pected to visit his city, which is famed for its state-championship basketball teams in high school circles. 
"Hughie," I soon learned, is as hos­pitable as he ever was when he used to "stand treat" for the three-o'clock­in-the-moming soirees in dear old Badin. There was no one, moreover, it seemed, whom we encountered in our hither and yon traveling in Hazleton that night, who did not have a cheery hello for "Hughie." 
A week after this ^^sit of mine "Hughie" came down to Bethlehem in his Pierce-Arrow car, accompanied by three sisters Smith, one of whom is his "steady"—am I divulging secrets? —to see the Hazleton High team tap off against Bethlehem High School. He confided to me that he would have brought the two Smith brothers along, too, if they had not been busy at home making cough drops. He also nar­rated several anecdotes of life on the Notre Dame campus which I never before had heard: one of them con­cerned two '27 men, "Charley" Mc­Dermott and "Joe" Whalen. "Hughie" informed me that "Ed" McGauley has visited him at his home, 141 South Wyoming Street, sevei-al times, and that he has heard from Brenden "Benny" McAdams, '27, and "Joe" Whalen at least twice since commence­ment. 
But, time is short and paper scarce, let us move on. There is "Charley" McDermott, '27, Allentown's (Pa.) contribution to Notre Dame. "Char­ley" is now a bond broker in New York City and may be reached in care of the K. of C. Hotel, 58th Street, that hamlet. He still finds time to go choo-chooing over to Philadelphia fre­quently to pay the amenities to his old crony, Vince A. McNally. 
In his daily peregi-inations between Wall Street and 3001 Broadway, Brook's Hall, Columbia University, where a certain "Babs" dwells in order to pursue a higher education, "Charley" comes across many Notre Dame men, he says. One of these is "Jim" Coleman, manager of the foot­ball team in 1927; "Pat" Canny is another. 
Vince McNally, coach of the Roman Catholic High School eleven, Phila­delphia, had another successful sea­son this last fall. It was his second year as coach of the team and he has signed a contract, according to re­ports, to coach this school's football teams for several years to come. Vince and "Joe" Ma.xwell, '27, who also abides in Philadelphia, see each other constantly. "Joe" played at end for the famous Frankfort Yellowjackets during the last gridiron campaign. 
"Big John," John V. McManmon, the only mayor Notre Dame has ever had, was given much praise in the newspapers of Boston during the fall for his skilful coaching of the line of Boston College's football team. "Big John" is now hibernating at his father's farm in the suburbs of Lowell, Mass. He may be reached in care of Box 794, Lowell, Mass. 
I think I shall call it an evening. My only regret is that the fellows have written about live in such close proximity to my home town. Would that I were enabled to write about young men who lived no nearer to me than, say, Denver or Davenport, la. Writing in denfense of class secre­taries, I have an uneasy feeling in my bones, has its pangs as well as its pleasures. Isn't it the truth? 
Good night, Jim! Don't worry, you shall hear from me again soon. LEO R. MCIXTYRE. 
Dear Jim: Modesty, Jim, modesty is the an­swer to the paucity of notes in the '27 column. The same sort of modesty which led the "Grad of the Noted 'Un-Noted' Class" to i-efrain from signing his name or contributing notes in his remarks of the last issue. His puerile challenge has shamed me into this equally puerile reply. 
Without any attention to class numerals I'm going to try and spray a page or two with names, many of which will be recognized as belong­ing to the "coterie of some three hun­dred intellectuals of the class of '27." 
HUB WALTHER stepped to the altar in St. Patrick's Cathedral about two years ago and had it said, just one month after his brother, BUGS WALTHER, middle-aisled it with a girl from Atlantic City. Bugs is in an orchestra in Providence, R. I., and Hub is managing editor of The Ladle, a trade journal for master plumbers of Manhattan, and the state for that matter. Hub also scribbles and draws for Judge as well as work on his first novel. And, oh yes, both brothers are heir-minded. Hub's cheeild answers to "Sally," and guess who was God­father. I sure was. In Notre Dame Church, N'Yawk. 
San Francisco, California, is the locale of RAY RED FLANAGAN'S activity. Last week it was Los An­geles. Not long ago Chicago, N'Yawk, Florida. Newspaper work. Well, if travel and travail broadens one. . . . 
Success of Red led RUPE WENT­WORTH to catch a train from Mis­

March, 1930 219 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
sissippi to Los Angeles. So thei-e he 
is now. Working? Write and tell, 
Eupe. 
All Hallows, Jf'Yawk, always 
tui-ned out good teams. But they'll be 
hetter. JACK LAVALLE is telling 
the athletes thei'e hoiv. 
The Film. Fun "mag" is exploiting 
LES GRADY. Turn one page and 
there's his name. Contribution Edi­
tor. That's a tip for N. D. journalists 
Avho feel punny that way. 
JACK (JOHN F.) BURNS tells them all about murders, trials, social events and wotnot in the colunms of the Pro\idence (E. I.) Journal. 
RED (guard-catcher) SMITH, and family have taken up residence in Arlington, New Jersey. PAUL (pole­vault) HARRINGTON has settled in Elizabeth, New Jersey. So the state can't be so bad . . . not so bad. To say nothing of visits from across the river by LARRY KEEFE and LAR­RY GRODEN and DAN O'NEIL. 'N the St. Joe track meet in New­ark showed plenty faces. Featured by JACK ELDER, who won the RUPE MILLS MEMORIAL trophy presented by the N. J. Club through JOSEPH M. BYRNE, JR., and who won the sprint series at the same place in the Seton Hall College meet. Publicity for which was plenty and came from ARTHUR J. LEAMOND'S steaming typewriter. -Among 'em were BOB (football) SHIELDS, JOE (cross - country) NULTY, BOB HUETZ, SHIV (basketball) and 
J.4KE ETC PURCELLS, RED (foot­ball) RILEY, CARL ZWIGARD, IKE (football-basketball) GILLIGAN oh and oh so many. 
Now way back to the West Notre Point Dame game, which is like that. Who but, JIM (manager) COLEMAN, ED (pitcher-football) WALSH, whose picture makes a nice effect often on 
N. Y. sport sheets, SLIM (Buffalo) DONOV.AN, with strong field glasses to miss not even this much, HARRY* AXT . . . •well everyone within a ra­dius of 1,000 miles. Mebbe more. -And DON (Horseman) MLLER, ELMER (Horseman) LAYDEN, JIM (Horseman) CROWLEY and if HARRY (Horseman) STUHLEDRE­HER -was there I didn't see him. But that would be possible. 
"Seems to me we know someone in this to^vn," said ED DUGG-\N to me a few weeks ago as we passed through Murphreesboro, N. C, as we were taking a dash in his new car. But for the life of us we couldn't think of who it was. Now who the heck is it? 
Which brings us to ED DUGG.AN 
whose engagement was announced 
almost right now. The girl is Mona 
Rita Hopper, of Flushing, L. I. June 
I think, but is it, Ed? 
ED BURKE who was credit mana­
gering it throughout Maine has come 
south a little and is now doing the 
same thing in Mount Vernon, N. Y. 
Ed had a close one. Two cars bumped, 
one turned over, the other entered a 
florist shop through a plate glass 
window. Ed was in the window dis­
play. But he's 0. k. now and it hap­
pened in East Orange, his home town, 
pardon Ed, citj'. But there'll be more 
if I hear yelps and I warn ya. 
Bill Carter. 

1928 Louis Buckley, Notre Dame, Ind., 
Secretary. I was pleasantly surprised the other day with a letter from my old Freshman HalF room-mate, JIM SEX­TON. -After leaving Notre Dame, Jim attended West Virginia Uni­versity for a year, and then left for Texas to take care of the big oil boom boom out there on the desert. He is now with the Republic Pro­duction Company, at Wink, Texas. I hope that some of the old Freshman Hall gang will di'op Jim a line and let him know that we still talk about the good old Freshman days, and of course it is impossible to say much about that year without mentioning the name of Sexton. Jim asked about the other two room-mates in 226, BILL W.AGNER and JOE BRANNON. I had a report the other day that Wag is now in a law office in New York. Joe Lally Bran­non still holds out in Chicago at the New Lawrence and insists on sending me sevei'al postal cards daily. 
BILL KIRWAN writes from Osh­kosh, Wisconsin, that he hasn't re­ceived an ALUMNUS since last June. Bill is kept on the move so fast that by the time we get his address he has left the town. Bill is still with Mont­gomery Ward. If any of you meet any of the '28 men who are not re­ceiving their -ALUMNUS, because of change of address, be sure and get their new address and send it to me because we don't want any of the boys to stray, and besides I am always looking for excuses to visit the .Alum­ni Office. 
J. R. MURPHY is kept busy in the hills of old Virginia, following in the footsteps of HOWIE PHALIN. Murph is now a district manager with the Midland Press and says that 
the '28 column is just like a letter 
from home. If some of the class­
mates don't get busy and let me in 
on a little news pretty soon concern­
ing themselves I think the Class will 
have to look for some traveling sales­
man in the class to write the column. 
This job of writing the column which 
the Class left me is bad enough if 
one hears rfom the felolws, but when 
the gang fails to come through with 
any letters it becomes more than a 
job. Murph's address is Richmond, 
Virginia, General Delivery. 
HOWIE PHALIN'S latest address 
is Huckins Hotel, Oklahoma City, 
Oklahoma. Howie says that it is 
lonely as the dickens down there. He 
wants to know why GEORGE 
COURY ever left that prosperous 
territory. If you had seen George 
last week here at the Lawyer's Ball 
you would have to agree that evident­
ly he has found just as properous a 
place in Chicago. George claims that 
LaSalle Street is just as lucrative as 
the best oil well in Oklahoma. Howie 
expects to head on to New Mexico 
and parts unknown in about a month; 
There is nothing startling in the way of '28 news on the campus. Sev­eral '28 men were back for the N. D. and St. Mary's dances. It looked natural to see JOHN IGOE at a St. Mary's dance. John infonned me that he has changed his name to Jim, but gave no reason. He has not had to change the last name as yet, but I told him it wouldn't do any good be­cause he still has the same "map." Remember the change, so if you see any announcements in the future carrying the new name you will be aware of tKe fact that he is now Jim Igoe. ED. CONLIN came hack last week and permitted the wedding bells to continue to break up that old '28 gang of ours. Ed. is a seroligist in the General Medical Laboratories in Chicago. Ed. and wife are living at 6930 Greenview -Ave. Rumor has it that CH.A.ELIE MCCARTHY has also taken the fatal step but I haven't re­ceived anything definite concerning it. How about a letter from the New Jersey gang giving us the low down on that. -AL THOMAS was back from Michigan Law to take in the Lawyer's Ball and the Junior Prom. 
JOHN McM-AHON continues to get by-lines in the New^ York Sun, not to be done casually. 
JIM CONMEY, a New York des­patch states, "is assaulting the forest of finance with bonds in one hand and gestures in the other . . . that is by day. LARRY CULLINEY con­
220 THE.NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS March, 1930 
tinues to wallow about in the social nure, very much as of yore." 
CHARLES LYNCH, whose name was among the missing, turned up under the very Buckley and Arm­strong probosci, with an address at 803 Thii-ty-iirst St., South Bend. 
1929 
Joseph P. McNamara, 231 Wisconsin 
St, Indianapolis, Ind, Secretary. 
There are, as some of you may re­call, things that just can't be im­proved upon. One of those was the combination golf-course, pool hall and what-is-it that masqueraded as study quarters for FR.-iNKLIN DOAN and BOB lkL4NNIX in subnoleant Sorin days. Another might easilj' be a cor­respondence from either of those worthies. Without further ado (or apologj') here's a letter from Frank. Go to it. 
"You can't say that my intentions aren't all pure and unsullied, because I've been planning on writing to you, lo, these many weeks, but never clicked until tonight. People who live in modem Sodom and Gomorrah, Tyre and Sidon, or what will you, have a habit of doing an awful lot and getting nothing done. 
This place is lousy with Notre Dame men. Starting at 90th Street, we have TOMMY SHEA, and then at 94th, there is BILL CRONIN who spends his time wailing to himself or to -AX, JOYCE,—^the cause of the wail being the fact that he is not in Chica­go, which for some strange reason and despite the evident need of cold cash there, he terms 'God's Country.' On 98th Street are FRANK Mc-GRATH, '24, FRITZ WILSON, TOM RYAN and LARRY MOORE. Ru­mor has it that BOB WALSH is about to join up with this entente cordiale and JACK ELDER manages to see a lot of the place during his track 1-isits here. On 99th Street (and 44/100% of course) there are DOAN who was McNamara's assis­tant on the lamented 1926 Football Review which surprised nobody by failing to make any dough, and next door, GENE DUFFY who was a freshman at school last year and is now on the repertorial staff of the Herald-Tribune, the notorious Repub­lican sheet . . . (My love for the Republicans is best attested by the fact that I bought Bendix at 5100 and suffered it to slip down to a mere $25) .. . WALT GREER seems to have escaped this neighborhood, but JOHN HINIiEL and MURRAY YOUNG (Hall of Famers) are still 

Local Alumni Club Meetings 
Send Notice of Meetings of Clubs Not Listed to Alumni Secretary, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
CLEVELAND: Mondays—^year round luncheon meetings—the AUerton NEW YORK CITY: Thursdays-luncheon meetings—Fraternity Club, 22 East 38th Street. CHICAGO: Fridays, 12:00—luncheon meetings—^Ivory Room, Mandel's. 
DETROIT: Thursdays—luncheon meetings—12:30—Frontenac Inn, 42 Monroe Avenue. 
PITTSBURGH: Thursdays—12:15—Gimbel's Dining Room, 6th Avenue and Smithfield Street. 
LOS ANGELES: Wednesdays—luncheon—12:15—University Club. 
CINCINNATI: First and third Tuesdays of each month—12:15 noon-Broadway Hotel. 
NEW JERSEY: Monthly meeting—7:30 p. m.—First Monday—New­ark Athletic Club. 
INTER-MOUNTAIN: Monthly luncheon—First Tuesday—University Club, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
KENTUCKY: Generally the second Tuesday of each month—different locations. Call Edward Pfeiffer, 407 Martin Bro^vn Arcade, Louisville. 
WABASH VALLEY: Four times yearly—January, April, October, December—^Fowler Hotel, Lafayette, Indiana. Call H. R. Kamp, 1207 Wells Street. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY: Monthly luncheon meeting—Last Monday. Call Paul Castner, Studebaker Corporation, South Bend. 
DES MOINES: Monthly meeting—no regular date. Call Carleton Beh. 
JOLIET: Monthly meeting—First Tuesday. Call Edward King, 301 Ruby Street, for details. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA: Monthly luncheon—first Tuesday—Clift Hotel, San Francisco. 
FORT WAYNE: Monthly dinner—no definite date. Call John W. Eggeman, president, or Thomas McKieman, secretary. 
ROCHESTER: First and third Wednesdays—12:15—Chamber of Com­merce Private Dining Room. 
SYRACUSE: Monthly luncheon—second Wednesday, 12:15—Schraft's. 
Bring the World's Knowledge into your Home! 
Give yourself and 
your children 
this completely NEW 
ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA 
FOR OLD AND YOUNG ALIKE 
Children love to browse through these fascinating vol­umes. The jjewBritannica assists -ivith school 'vvork, brings 
O
PEN the windows of your mind—today. 
Bring into your home at one stroke the 
out unsuspected talents, helps chUdren "find themselves." knowledge, the wisdom, the practical experience 
THE MAHOGANY BOOKCASE TABLE SHOWN ABOVE IS IN'CI.UDED WITH EACH SET 
of 3,500 world-famous leaders of 
thought and action. Give your family—your children especially in these 24 marvelous volumes, more SPECIAL OFFER 
—the greatest knowledge book of swiftly, more easily than ever before, 
New low price—$5 down 
all times—the mw Encyclopaedia you can explore any science, any in-Britannica. dustry, any phase of knowledge that MASS production on a scale never 
you please—all without leaving your before possible gives you these 
A $2,000,000 own home. books at a third of what they would 
otherwise cost, for less than any wholly 
"home university" ^s k any question, and the neu; neio Britannica in 60 years. 
F
RESH from the presses, made new Britannica tells you the answer. Yet from cover to cover at a cost of more the neto Britannica is more than a And while this ofier lasts an initial than $2,000,000, here is a Britannica mere answer-book. It is a book of payment of only $5 will bring the en­that marks a new epoch in home richer opportunity—a vital force for tire set together with the handsome education. self-advancement. With the Britannica bookcase table to yoin: home. You can 
Never before has knowledge been 
altuays at hand you can mahe even pay the balance on one of the easiest made so instantly accessible—so easy your minutes help you to success. time payment plans ever devised. to grasp. 
Send for FREE booklet 
Authorities from 50 diSerent coun­New opportunity for 
Act now! Get this NEW Britannica at the tries write its thousands of articles— present low price. Send 
all the family 

for our free illustrated 
booklet. It contains 
bring to your home the learning of the 
great universities, the discoveries of "C VERY member of your family can 
specimen pages, maps science, the practical wisdom of sue- -*-'find practical everyday help in this tmd color pUtes, and marvelous book. For men eager to get gives full informa­
cessful men and women in all walks 
tion. Fill out the 
ahead it is a real aid to greater aaming 
of life. coupon and mail power. For v,-omen it is a guide in all today. 
All the world's wonders 
the activ itiesof the home and _ ^ ^ 15,000 superb new illustrations, every outside interest. For 
ENCYaOPAEDIA BUTANNKA, Inc NDAS-FI ; many in color, give vividness and children it provides an end­342 Madison Awnue, Itew York Off charm to the fascinating pages of the less fund of fascinating things Please send me by return mail, wichouc ai 
obligatioii on my part, your 56*page Ulustiated I
netu Britannica—give you the whole to make and do. 
booklet describing the new Bii^nnica together |world in pictures. Give yourself and your with low price oSer, etc. 
A magic book—that's what you'll family the chance to profit by 
Name 

say about this netu Britannica. Now, this modern knowledge book. 
Citr, .static
SEND FOR FREE BOOKLET TODAY 
222 THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS March, 1930 
-John Hanctx^ Seiia ­
Dependents (ram-dependents) 
must have an income 
How much of an income have you guar­anteedforyourdependents in case of your death ? Take pencil and paper and ac­tually figure the income yield on your present es­tate. 
A John Hancock agent can tell you how to Im­mediately increase your estate tlirough life in­surance, and figure out exactly how much you must lay aside from your present income to make it come true. 
Inquiry Bureau 197 Clarendon St.. Boston, Moss. Please send booklet, *'This Matter of Success." 
Address.. 
AX. -Ocer Sixig'serfn Years in Baiinaj ­

at Columbia and JIM FITZPATRICIC is still in the sugar importing busi­ness. Being a good sugar importer, he'll probably take the stump in favor of diabetes some of these days. JIM O'CONNOR takes a night oif from Fordham law once in a while to chew the fat as in dear old Sorin days, and PAT CANNY, who now wears a stiff collar (its an old Roman costume) and smokes cigars, spends five days a week figuring how he can go to Chi­cago on 'business' for the company. The other half day he works for the Erie Railroad. 
"Was up at Collier's radio hour last night and saw ED McCORMACK who was in Boston lately and ran in­to JIM BR.4.DY and JIM ROY. They're still studying law, which probably makes Roscoe Pound a sec­ond cousin to Walter Winchell. I get a line now and then from LOUIS FOX NIEZER who is doing a little plain and fancy engineering at Yale He runs into BO BURKE every other Wednesday, or something like that, and they probably give each other birdies.—^It's an old Sorin custom. From way out in the Fordham region, 
•which
 is too far east for the Harlem dinges and too far north for the Bronx hebes—maybe my directions are all wet, but you probably get 

•what
 I mean—comes word that WALT DONNELLEY is 'that way' about a queen; and the femmes at New Rochelle College are still wish­ing that the Junior Prom would take 


place every night so BUS REDGATE 
could be there. 

"I was in Chicago 'on business' for a couple of weeks at Christmastide, but decided it would be better to kill two birds with one stone, so spent the same two weeks in South Bend and Lima, especially South Bend. Tried to get out to school but the snow was about so high. (See's., note: Why Mr. Doan ho-w can you?) .. . JOHNNY DORGAN, RED O'HANLEY, VIC ESSROGER, OS­KAR RUST and several others go out to lunch (an old Esperanto term) often and long, all of which leads me to believe that they didn't get their tossing done in four years or that they are (God forbid) potential Kiwanians. 
''Three more things and then I'll go: (1) NORBERT H. BROWN, who was a frosh at Notre Dame •with us and a roommate of PETE BRYSSEL­BOUT, JOHNNY ME.4.GHER and GENIE CARLIN, is now editor-in­chief of The Real Estate Record and Guide and a big shot in local real estate circles. He married the girl whose picture was on his desk those t^vo days during the year when BILLIE L.A.UGHRAN and CH.A.RL1E 
COLTON were not busy hiding it. 
(2) Believe it or not, I'm going to send JIM ARMSTRONG my dues check sometimes this month or next . . . Imagine his emotion! (3) And Mac, I suppose you just sort of ran into that dope about Hugh the Ford dealer . . ." (Edit. Note: The re­mainder of the letter just 7mtst be censored. Sorry). 
MATT CULLEN has entered the general practice of law with a firm, newly organized to read Gilmore, Hendricks and CuUen, 160 N. LaSalle St., Chicago, 
A note from C. J. De Baggio, El­dora, Iowa, states that Carl is in busi­ness with his father there and is hoping for a Notre Dame radio pro­gram Universal N. D. Night. 
VINCE CARNEY sends in the password, from the Carney and Longenecker clothing store, Rochelle, HI. 
* * * 

And now just a word about DO.-VN himself: Prank is busy making Col­lier's even more of the national weekly and trying to sing the praises of the Homely Women's Companion. Also rumor hath it that he has been writing magazine articles with the following results: four or five (per­haps more) checks from Forhes Mag-
Charles E. Doyle & Co. 
INVESTMENT SECURITIES 
CHASE NATIONAL BANK BULLING TWENTY PINE STREET NEW YORK CITY 
-^ 
HARRY J. CULLEN, '23 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Business and Professional Directory 
••iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii lllllllltlllllllllllllllMltM IIIIIIIIIIUIMMIIIttllll nillllllllltlllMtlMltlllMIIIHIIIMMllllHlttmi 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME I
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS DAYTON, OHIO 
NIGHT, APRIL 21 |
•iiitiititiiiiiiiiiiiii 
Established 1911 

I JOSEPH B. MURPHY, '11 COOPER-KANALEY and CO. ABi-vities Elsewhere I|  ATTORNEY-AT-LAW I 309-15 Mutual Home Bldg. 
FIRST MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS Several alumni movements in other |
I Dayton, Ohio 
120 S. LaSaUe St., Chicago. schools are worthy of mention. | Tel. Franklin 0353. I Murphy & Murphy
Ohio State is having a conference | 
S tiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiniiitHiiiini<iiiiiitiiiMtii"<«i 
IlllllllllllltllllllOtll of alumni and university officers early | ne.\t month at Columbus, for the pur-|
I NEW YORK CITY SOUTH BEND, IND. 
pose of discussing and seeing in oper­
2 i|||)lll||tllll)ltll)Mtll)«IIMI)ll»«ltllllUIII*MIII>Mlltlllll)ltl 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii ation adult education as applied to alumni. Saturday morning, April 5, POLAR ICE & FUEL I alumni leaders from Columbia, Mich­igan and Ohio State, and Dr. Fred­
COMPANY erick Keppel, of the Carnegie Foun­WILLIAM A. DAUNT dation, will discuss the theory. Sat­
John (Ike) Voediscb, '27 

urday afternoon Dr. George Wash­burne, of Ohio State will lecture on 
Ass't Manager j 

"Diplomacy of the New Europe," Dr. 
llllllllllllllllll)IM>IMI)IIIIIIIIIMI>llll<ll»llllllll>lll>llltillli \ Henrj' Goddard, of Ohio State will lecture on "Modern Trends in Psy­COLUMBUS, OHIO | chology" and Dr. Shailer Matthews, 
iiiitiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

of the University of Chicago will lec­ture on "The Philosophy of Religion." 
Law Offices 

The University of Michigan has an­
HAMILTON & KRAMER 

nounced an alumni program of lec­tures in special fields by the outstand­
701-3 HUNTINGTON BANK BLDG. CORRECT EQXnPMENT ing members of its faculty for the 
for any COLUMBUS, OHIO four days following Commencement ATHLETIC SPORT 

there. Alumni register for the lec­
DONALD M. HAMILTON, '12 tures they are interested in, live on 518 Fifth Ave. 105 Nassau St. the campus, enjoy the surrounding 

28 New Street 

recreational facilities, and refresh 
YOUR N. D. FRIENDS 

themselves culturally. Imagine the possibilities for this at Notre Dame. 
Want to Do Business 

Princeton has just inaugurated a Manhattan 
With You. 

School of Public and International Affairs "for the purpose of giving students the proper background for 
Refrigerating Co. 

understanding of present-day trends 
This is One of Your First 

in national and world affairs." The Opportunities to Profit advisory board of the new School as Alumni. contains men of eminence and ex­Union Terminal perience in public and international 
IIIIIIIMIIIIIIIItlllllltillllllllillllltlillllllMllllllltMtlllDIMIII 

affairs. Cold Storage Company Several schools are broadcasting 
THE NEW ALUMNUS 

"school of the air" courses, regular is a Better but Costlier programs of lectures, music, etc., 
Magazine. through their own or neighboring Kings County radio stations. The broadcasts seem to be meeting 'vvith a response that is Refrigerating Company encouraging their continuance. 
Send Copy for the Next Four Issues to 

UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME | Offices: 
J. E. ARMSTRONG 
NIGHT, APRIL 21 I

Box 81, Notre Dame, Ind. 525 West Street, N. Y. C. 
azine and several rejection slips from 
one or two others. He is also house 
writer for The Publisher's Weekly 
and whoops it up for Colliers. 
All bombs, rat-food, and so forth 
intended for the aforementioned Doan 
can be sent to that gentleman, post­
paid, at Apartment 7 E., 306 West 
99th Street, New York City. 
SYLVESTER J. (DOC) DOUG­
HERTY, metallurgist par excellence 
for the Weirtin Steel Company, is 
just recovering from serious illness 
and a strict diet (watch that future 
sliadow) and will be back putting the 
steel industry on its feet by the time 
the gang reads htis. "Doc" writes as 
follows from his convalescent head­
quarters at 71S Sixth Avenue, Steu­
ben\-ille, Ohio: ".. . MICKEY Mc-
MAHON dropped in the other night 
. . . his address with the Insurance 
Company of North America is 963 
Union Trust Building, Cleveland . . . 
but the news that the gang will enjoy 
is that he played a few numbers on 
the piano and presto! we were at the 
old Washington Hall nio\'ies once 
again. 
"A live-^vire is MARCELLUS KIRCHNER but he can't help it, working as he is for the General Electric Company at Schenectady, New York. He is rooming with EL­MO MOYER at 1169 O.xford Place there . . . the address being given as a gentle hint to ICARL MARTER­STECK from whom he wishes to hear . . . BILL ICINGSEED is up to plenty for he's a student of aeronaut­ical engineering at Ann Arbor, Mich­igan these days . . . ROCCO PERONE and the American Tele­graph and Telephone Company are getting along near Cleveland these months . . . DOLL, DUQUETTE, and YATES are all in Fort WajTie, so Fort Wayne must be all in too . . . DURBIN and BRUMLEVE are also at Schenectady while STAUDER gets his mail at Lynn, Mass. . . 
"Through no one's fault GALDI­BINI greets the morning sun each day in Erie, Pa., which proves some­thing or other . . . anj'way he's going big down there as is also BUZHC who is in Pittsfield .. . JO S\rETE is am­bitiously Blackstoning at Western Reseri'e College and doing it well. 
Alas, poor MARTERSTECK! Karl seems doomed to a South Bend ad­dress (its now 511 East Corby Street to be exact) for he's been working assiduously for an engineering and construction firm there . . . GEORGE ROWAN is on the engineering staff of a mining company near Pittston, Pa., but our informant does not state whether or not that makes George an expert on gold-diggers .. . SI WAG­NER is in Iron Junction, Minnesota . . . famous for that phrase: "Have you had your iron today?" 
DOC DAUGHERTYY, by the way, is now sufficiently recovered to stand hearing from GGEORGE ROWAN, BILL GORMAN, PETE MORGAN, BILL SIDENFADEN or any of the rest of the gang that still have their graduation fountain pens. 
BUD MARKEY, DICK NOVAK and the rest of the Washington, D. C, crew are reported to have changed the address of their Notre Dame rendezvous, but the scribs hasn't the new number. Just ask any cabinet member though—^they'll all know Bud. 
Where, oh where has our little IVAN LE BLANC gone? 
THOMAS %aRGIL HAPPER proved himself "real" the other day when he used one of Dean Konop's new law collgee directories and di­vided up a bit of his growing law practice with the secretary. Tom's the same as ever and making 'em sit up and beg for candy in the legal circles around Elkhart. Tom opera­tive address is Monger Building, Elk­hart, Ind. 
A master of paidentics, that's JOHN NIXON de ROULET, one of the campus' most genial golfers and master of both verse and humor for the Juggler. John is initiating the freshmen of Mount Carmel High School, Chicago, into the mysteries of the English language these days and writing some truly good stuff on the side—oh, very much on the side. His only worry seems to be that each written assignment means 197 papers for him to correct. . . perhaps that is something to worry about. 
BOB LANE is another t^venty­niner who has " gone professorial." Bob is taking care of the boys out at Santa Clara. 
It is alleged, as the newspapers would say, that ELIA LEONELLI, of Youngstown, Ohio was married to Miss Rose Patrick formerly of Saint Mary's a few days after he received" his B.S. degree with the rest of us. Saint John's Church in Indianapolis was the scene and the Rt. Rev. Msgr. FRANCIS H. GAVISK, DD, '16, is said to have officiated at the wedding. LEONELLI is reported to now be in the employ of Eli Lilly Company. 
BUD GORMAN was sighted in Philadelphia recently: 

Peru Foundry Company 
Peru, Indiana 
Manufacturers of Tumbling Mill Stars 
for Gray Iron Emeiy Wheel Dressers Foundries 

Sand Blast Nozzles for Malleable Iron 
Annealing Pots Foundries. 



Miscellaneous White Iron Castings 
A. F. (ADFRIES,'16 
Vice-Pres. & Gea. Mgr. 




