The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
^•WTr-TiWTTm" 

^is boek is not to b» 
LU 
taken froa the Library 


THE NOTRE DAME 
< 

l_U  ALUMNUS  
O  
o > CO  #^i?^  ^  6  % >N ,-2)6 ^^/l  
L U >  
PATRICK E. BURKE, LLB. '88. A. B. '89. New Orleans. Louisiana. President, Louisiana-Mississippi Club; Secretary, Class of 1889.  
U J  

FEBRUARY. 1936 
when you can get all these good things at lowest cost 
(NEW PERFECTED HYDRAULIC BRAKES mMPROVED GLIDING KNEE-ACTION HIDE* (SHOCKPROOF STEERING* »GENUINE FISHER NO DRAFT VENTILATION (SOLID STEEL one-piece TURRET TOP BODIES »HIGH-COMPRESSION VALAT-KV-HEAD ENGINE 
*Avnilablc in Master De Litre models only. Knee-Acttortj $20 additional. 
0 / NEW GRUnY REDUCED G.MJLC. TIME PAYMENT FUN 'n The lowest financing cost in C. ,U. A. C. history'. Compare ^ Clievrotet's tow delivered prices. 
Once, it was necessary to pag a lot of moneg 
to get a fine motor car. Once, but not ang more! Think of all the fine car features gou can get in this new 1936 Chevrolet at Chevrolet's low prices: The superior safetg of New Perfected Hgdraulic Brakes and Solid Steel one-piece Turret Top! The unmatched smoothness of the Knee-Action Gliding Ride*! The smarter stgling and more healthful comfort of a Turret Top Bodg mth Fisher No Draft Ventilation! The higher performance-efficiencg of a High-Compression Valve-in-Head Engine! And the un­equaled driving and parking ease of Shockproof Steering*! Have the fun of saving moneg while getting all these good things at lowest cost—Buy a new 1936 Chevrolet! CHEATIOLET JIOTOR COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 
ea^ 




CHEVROLET 
A GENERAL MOTORS VALUE 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG. 75 The maeazine is published monthly durins the scholastic year by the Alumni Association Member of the Americaa o£ the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 Editor a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include Alumni Council. a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 
WILLIAM R . DOOLEY, 76 Member of Nat'I. Catholic 
1923. at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1S79. All Managing Editor correspondence should be addressed to ITic Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81. Notre Dame. Ind. Alumni FederaHon. 
Vol. XIV. February, 1936 No. 5 
Universal Notre Dame Night Set for April 20 
Alumni Board Considers Placement Activities; insurance 
for the Education of Children of Alumni, and General Pro­

gram of the Association at Meeting on January .13th. 
Matters of alumni moment were considered by President Bernard J. VoU and members of the Board of Directoi'S of the Alumni Association at its winter meeting held at Notre Dame on Monday, January 13. Pres­ent, in addition to the president and secretaries of the Association, were Directors Don O'Keefe, Fred Steers, James Deei-y and Tom Proctor. Pres­ent for parts of the deliberations were, also, Eev. Hugh O'Donnell, 
C. S. C, vice-president of the Uni­versity, and Frank W. Lloyd, comp­troller. 
Following is a summary report of the meeting: 
FINANCES— 
Payment of dues to Januaiy 1 shows a slight increase over last year. The percentage of membership represented is still distressingly low, amounting to approximately 15 per cent. Clubs and Classes are to be urged to stimulate this support upon which the broader program is con­tingent. 

CLUBS— 
Activities of the Clubs provide a bright spot in the year's achieve­ments to date. General activity; more response to contacts; excellent cooperation in the new student pro­gram; better relations with under­graduates; projects reflecting initia­tive and strength of membership,— were all reported with documentary evidence that can be found in the iile of the present volume of the 
ALUXtNUS. 
THE ALUMNUS— 
This is a good spot to mention the continuation, at no small financial embarrassment, of the practice of sending the ALU»rN'US, as the only only Notre Dame contact, to grad­uates. The magazine this year has issued as a part of its program a partial directory of practicing law­yers, and a special supplement con­taining the outstanding addresses of the Phillippine Convocation of De­cember 9. The Board is particularly anxious to achieve a financial status which will not necessitate curtail­ment of this contact. 
CLASSES— 
Activities of the Classes reflected in the columns of the magazine seem to be improving. The coming Re­unions June 5, 6 and 7, of the Classes of 1886, 1911, 1931, 1892-3-4-5 and 1911-12-13-14, promise to key a new high in the Commencement re­union, which, as always, is open to all Classes, though featuring the 1-, 25-, 50-, and Dix years. 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT 
-\pril 20, the third Monday, coming one week after Easter Monday, was set as the date for the Thirteenth Annual Universal Notre Dame Night. Little more need be said to the Alumni Association. 
Last year, through the coopera­tion of the Studebaker national radio program and 132 independent radio stations, every comer of the United States and many foreign countries, listened to Notre Dame programs on the Night. The same efforts will be made this year to secure the coope­ration of these friends of Notre Dame in reaching the thousands of alumni and friends throughout the world, making the Night truly uni­versal. 
EDUCATION INSURANCE— 
A project, proposed some months ago, to set up a plan whereby, by small periodic contributions, alumni might build up funds for the educa­tion of their children, was reported back to the Board. No decisions were 
reached. The discussion centered upon two major considerations, the first that the - University act as a depository for such funds, and the second that some insurance plan be set up through a major company or several such. There are many points entering the project that make it diflicult to arrive at a decision and the matter was referred for further study, enlisting the cooperation of the Comptroller of the University, Mr. Frank W. Lloyd. Alumni inter­ested in such a project from the standpoint of its primary purpose, might aid the Board by writing in personal reaction. 
PLACEMENT— 
This subject brought up the long­est and most serious consideration by the Board. Obviously, it was the con­sensus of opinion that any steps that can be taken by the Association to place the graduates of Notre Dame to advantage are of great mutual benefit. 
The Association at ' one time launched the project of a central bureau, but found that the stage of development of the Clubs, the reac­tion of alumni, the central facilities, and the finances necessary, were in­adequate. Since that time, the work has been promoted as a part of the suggested program for Local Alumni Clubs. The ALUSINUS has carried, as opportunity presented, opportunities for jobs, and also notices of almnni out of jobs desiring special employ­ment. 
Discussion brought out the lack of background knowledge of alumni as students. This is being filled by a personal student record being com­piled among present students, and coordinated through the Alumni Office. One major factor in the com­pilation is the supplying of infor­mation for alumni and placement references. 
The Board urges all Clubs to continue efforts along this line, where begun, and to inaugurate such activ­ity where not yet existing. Efforts to locate opportunities in the several Club communities of a more or less continuing nature and emphasis on the placing of newly graduated alum­ni wei'e suggested for immediate activity. The opinions of Director Thomas Proctor of the Class of '35, bore out and stimulated the Board's conclusions in this field. 
More about the above projects will be heard in subsequent issues, and Club and Class ofiicers will be con­tacted directly. The membership is urged to volunteer sugggestions and to cooperate with the above activi­ties when the officers apply them. 
GOVERNORS— 
The Board emphasized the need for more activity on the part of Direc­tors and District Governors, if the purpose of the set-up, closer unity of acti\'ity, is to be achieved. Clubs are urged to in\'ite the participation of the Governors and Director's in an official capacity in Club functions. 
NEW STUDENTS— 
The Association generally, through Clubs and indi%-iduals, has done out­standing work in the field of con­tacting prospective students. The Secretary, familiar with the develop­ment of this acti\it}' in other alumni groups, urged that Notre Dame men evei-y\vhere continue their efforts in interesting the desirable boys in their I'espective communities in the Uni­versity. 
ELECTION OF MEMBERS— 
A list of non-graduates, whose interest and acti\ity resulted in their nomination for membership by Clubs or individual alumni, was voted into the Association upon consideration and approval. 
JOHN F. GUSHING— 
A resolution of sympathy on the death of John F. Gushing, C.E., '06, was passed by the Board. 
SPECIAL— 
Reports indicated several achieve­ments of the Association this yeai-, some in conjunction with other organizations. One was the reunion of "Old-Timers," at the Southern California game. Another was the reunion last summer of the Notre Dame war veterans at the American Legion Convention in St. Louis. Direc­tories of the women graduates and the practicing lawyers have been compiled. 
The Secretary represented the Association at the dedication of the memorial park for George Gipp in Laurium. National and local alumni ofiicers were prominent in the Con­vocation plans at Notre Dame, December 9, and the ALUMNUS sup­plement on that event has been wide­ly circulated. 
The meeting of the Board gener­ally indicated that the Association, in spite of its financial handicaps, is in­volved in a major program. The sev­eral phases of this program benefit both' the alumni and the University. 
Much of the success of these pro­jects, in the last analysis, will of course depend upon the support of the membership. So much has been accomplished with comparatively lit­tle, that the possibilities of the program properly supported are at­tractive as well as feasible. 
and Geosraphical 
Rev. John A. MacNamara, '97, is chairman of one of the two nominat­ing committees just appointed by President Bernard J. VoU. Father MacNamara, although spending some time in St. Joseph's Sanitarium, Mt. Clemens, Mich., is formerly a New Englander, and later a New Yorker, with a Maryland interlude, which gives him a rather remarkable cover­age in contacts and knowledge of con­ditions. In addition to that, everyone who attends Commencements or the football games at home or the Army games in New York, knows that Father Mac is well acquainted with practically every generation of Notre Dame man who has shown any inter­est in his alma mater. 
On Father MacNamara's committee are Frank H. Hayes, '14, Anaheim, Calif., and Henry F. Bamhart, '23, Moreland Manor, Lima, 0. Frank Hayes, as former president of the Alumni Association and author of the Living Endowment project of the Association, as a former Chicagoan, and a rather general traveler, has a deep insight into the problems of the Association and a wide acquaintance among the men who have assisted in their solution. Henr y Bamhart, though a younger man, is Governor of the most densely populated of Dis­tricts in the Association, District IIL He was outstanding during his stu­dent days at Notre Dame and is wide­ly known and admired. His contacts with the many Ohio Clubs keeps him in immediate touch with the progress of alumni affairs. 
Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '17, Mercy hospital, Pittsburgh, Pa., is chairman of the other of the two nominating committees appouited to name the Alumni Association slates for 1936-37. Dr. O'Donnell is well acquainted with the work of the Association through his presidency of the Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania and his activities in the District III Associa­tion program. 
On Dr. O'Donnell's committee are two men steeped in the Notre Dame program. Robert E. Lynch, '03, 1144 


Nominating Committees Appointed 
Familiar Names Comprise Selections; Class 
 Distribution Achieved 
Cass Street, Green Bay, Wis., former president of Notre Dame Club of Green Bay, national director of the Association for four years, N. D. and big league baseball star of earlier days, member of the Wisconsin legis­lature, and widely known among the alumni of the Middle and North West, can contribute most valuable advice. Similarly, James A. Ronan, '26, 127 
N. Dearborn St., Chicago, 111., Gov­ernor of District II, former president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, active in K. of C. work both at Notre Dame and in Chicago, has a back­ground of fraternal problems and a widespread acquaintance which will prove of great aid in the work of the 

•committee. 
Members of the Association are, as always, urged to make suggestions to the committees regarding nominations for the offices of honorary president, president, first vice-president, second vice-president, and a director for a four-year term. 


J. F. Sanford, '21, Elected Judsc 
With the announcement of a plan which he hopes mil enable him to reduce divorces in his jurisdiction Joseph P. Sanford, '21, Muskegon, Michigan, assumed his new duties as judge of the 14th judicial circuit of Michigan on Jan. 2. 
The youngest man ever elected to the circuit bench in his district, Judge Sanford is the brother of James E. Sanford, '15, of Washington, D.C. and of Sister Mary Jerome, of the Sisters Servants of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, A.M., '21, of Marygrove Col­lege, Detroit. 
Under his plan of handling divorce eases, Judge Sanford, where minor chilidren are involved, will call the parents before him and make a per­sonal effort to effect a reconciliation. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jim Sanford, along 
'with other members of the Judge's immediate family, were present at his elevation to the bench. 



Brilliant Addresses Feature Football Banquet 
Father Hugh O'Donnell and Eddie Dowling Speak As The St. Joe Valley Club Sponsors 16th Annual Event; Prominent Coaches Attend; "All - American" Brown Is Toastmaster 
Highlighted by the addresses of Eev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, vice president of the University, and Ed­die Dowling, famed actor, producer and political figure, the sixteenth an­nual football banquet, honoring the 1935 squad and its coaches, was pre­sented by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley in the University Dining Halls on Monday evening, Jan. 
13. Approximately 1,000 persons were in attendance. 
The speaking program included, in addition to Father O'Donnell and Ed­die Dowling, a brilliant galaxy of football coaches, headed by Elmer Layden. They were Clark L. Shaugh­nessy. University of Chicago; LjTin Waldorf, Northwestern; Jimmy Phe­lan. University of Washington; Gus Dorais, University of Detroit; Char­lie Bachman, Michigan State; Francis Schmidt, Ohio State. 
"Toastmaster o f Toastmasters," Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, oper­ating all through the banquet at the peak of his always high powers, also introduced the following: Mayor George W. Freyermuth, South Bend; Bernard J. Voll, South Bend, presi­dent of the Alumni Association; Rev. Michael L. Moriarity, Cleveland; Jack Ledden, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune; Jim Costin, sports edi­tor of the South Bend News-Times. 
Francis Jones, president of the Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley, presided at the opening of the banquet. Excellent and much-ap­plauded music was provided by the Notre Dame Band directed by Joe Casasanta and assisted by John Ryan, '36, tenor. Frank Donovan deferred moving-day (to .Cambridge, Massa­chusetts) long enough to be general chairman of the committee in charge. And it should be added that food was provided through the excellent co-op­eration of the Dining Halls staff, headed by the enthusiastic E. F. Con­nolly, manager. 
The committee chairmen assisting Frank Donovan were the following: Tom Hickey, arrangements; Vitus Jones, guests; John Mclntyre, fin­ances; Eddie Meehan, program; Joe Petritz, publicity; and Herb Jones, tickets. 
Father O'Donnell delivered a stir­ring defense of intercollegiate foot­ball. 
"I believe that overemphasis has been veiy much over-emphasized," he said. 
Answering those critics of football who charge that it detracts from the academic tone of an educational insti­tution. Father O'Donnell said: 
"If those charged with the respon­sibility of a university find that it does so detract then the responsibility of correction rests with them and not with those prompted by a desire to secure publicity from an expression of their views." 
The text of Father O'Donnell's ad­dress is printed in full in this issue. 
Eddie Dowling paid a glowing trib­ute to Notre Dame and to Notre Dame football. 
Speaking to the 193.3 squad he ad-
WARREX BROWN 
The Eyninent Toastmaster. 

monished them with these words: "You are champions of a great sport and the herald of a great university. 
"I never played on a Notre Dame football team," he continued, "but I was a member of that football team called Broadway where they don't tackle clean, and there is constant clipping from behind. But to you young warriors of Notre Dame I want to impart to you the knowledge that I gained the victory we all seek—a vic­tory I charge you to seek—a moral victory. And if you keep the faith and adhere to the teachings you can't help learn on the football field, those of clean sportsmanship, you will gain that blessed victory." 
Dowling further admonished the gridmen to protect not only those things they learn akin to clean char­acter on the football field but also the honor, truth and faith they are taught in their classrooms. 
Concluding his speech Dowling told the athletes that they were "richly blessed in being able to learn all these things in one of the world's most precious spots—under the gilded dome of Notre Dame." 
Elmer Layden, in introducing mem­bers of the 1935 squad and presenting gold footballs to them and to his as­sistants on the coaching staif, paid tribute to memory of Joe Sullivan, captain of the 1935 eleven. 
"Joe's spirit, so typical of the men of Notre Dame, and spirits of all other great leaders at Notre Dame," he said, "played a silent role through­out the 1935 season. Their deeds were constantly before those boys last sea­son; their sacrifices and attainments caused the 1935 team to be courag­eous. The 1935 team deserves a rich place in Notre Dame history." 
Coach Layden, in paying tribute to 
W. Howard (Cap) Edwards, captain of the 1909 eleven, hailed Mr. Ed­wards as a "most loyal friend of Notre Dame, one who holds the name sacred and carries it to the highest peak." 
Impressive tributes in which the en­tire audience took part were paid to Father John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, and Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, for­mer presidents of the University; Captain Sullivan, Knute Rockne, and Will Rogers, principal speaker at the banquet last year. With spotlights trained on their portraits and the room darkened, the Band played Gou­nod's "Ave Maria." 
Speaking in the name of the Alum­ni Association President Voll said: 
"Tonight the alumni of Notre Dame hasten to add their congratulations to those of the many groups gathered here. 
"We do this in a measure, however, 
(Continued on Pajre 144) 

122 The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Sister Lourdes Dies at Eighty-five 
Beloved Nun, Laborer in Old Kitchen for 49 years. Revered in Many Hearts 
Death on Jan. 12 touched lightly a nohle soul, revered in the memory of thousands of Notre Dame men the world over—Sister Lourdes, C.S.C., 85 years old, the "coffee urn Sister" of the old kitchen. 
Coming to Notre Dame in 1878 Sis­ter Lourdes, labored for 49 years in that old kitchen behind Carroll Hall; it was only when the new Dining Halls were opened in 1927 that she finally gave up her beloved tasks. She had spent, in all, 57 years—her entire religious life—at Notre Dame. In that time she left the campus only two or three times. 
To all those hundreds, wherever they are, who owe many a late break­fast and many a "hand-out" to the largeness of Sister Lourdes' heart, the following, by Father George Marr, CS.C, from the Religious Bulletin of Jan. 15 will be of particular interest: 
"At 5:30 last Sunday afternoon Sister Lourdes, 85 years old, died in the Holy Cross Sisters' Convent In­firmary here at Notre Dame. 
"Her story is a simple one. Born on the Isle of Saints and Scholars, she came in her early twenties to -Ajnerica and brought along her fight­ing Irish Faith. She joined the Sis­ters of Holy Cross and set herself to do one thing humbly and generously —to please God in every thought and word and act.. She was assigned to try and please God in the Notre Dame kitchen. For 60 years beneath the Golden Dome she was the handmaid of the Lord, God's loving slave.at Our Lady's school. 
"Thousands of Notre Dame men— priests, brothers, professors, students —^in every part of the world rise up and call her blessed. Sweetness and kindness itself, she knew only two places in her long life. One was the kitchen near Carroll Hall where her motherly heart and lovely smile dis­

•pensed buns and soup and a 'hand­out' to countless minims and juniors and seniors in the days of the old Car"roll and Brownson refectories. The other place was the convent chapel where' she pleaded with Our Lord and His Blessed Mother to give the team the needed yardage. 
"She began her saintly career in the days of Fathers Sorin and Corby and Granger; and the great presi­dents of Notre Dame from Father Thomas Walsh to our own Father O'Hara have felt her holy influence. She did only one thing: she pleased God and Him alone. Only the im­mortal Father Cavanaugh, who has preceded her to Heaven, could ade­quately describe this valiant Notre Dame woman. 
"To the priests who attended her in the last illness, it seems more fit­ting to ask the students to pray to her than for her. For 72 hours she lay djing and conscious till the very last. She was just pleasing God. Her only words were ones of thanks for His blessings. She did not have the shadow of even the least worry. If God wanted to take her in 11 seconds, all right; if He wanted her to linger on for 11 years more, all right. She died in Christ's peace with a smiling good-bye to Notre Dame. 
"May her powerful prayers help Notre Dame and the sons of Notre Dame to do the one thing necessary —to please God in every thing;" 


Campus Radio Expands 
Rev. Eugene Burke, CS.C, 
Announces New Programs 
By Gregory Byrnes 
Rev. Eugene Burke, CS.C, faculty director of the campus radio station, WSBT-WFAM, of the South Bend Tribune, has announced that begin­ning in February the campus organ­ization will undertake a much more ambitious series of broadcasts. The increase in the time available makes possible the presentation of a pro­gram of broadcasts covering all the various departments of the Univer­sity. It is planned to have the various faculty members in each department organize and direct the students so that the greatest number of each will have an opportunity to present pro­grams dealing with subjects relating to their various fields. The series will be made up of two 15-minute broad­casts each day, with the exception of Saturday and Sunday, and will ex­tend over the ne.xt 16 weeks. 
The new series of programs is to be divided into ten parts as follows: 

1) "The History of Music"i In this series Rev. James Connerton, CS.C, will discuss the history of church music using the Moreau choir to illus­trate the various phases of its devel­opment and Professor W. L. Groom, of the Music Department will discuss the history of secular music using the talent of the students in the depart­ment to illustrate his lectures. 
February, 1936 

2) The department of English will present "The Readers'' Spotlight" in which interesting highlights in the lives of well-known literary person­alities will be featured. It is planned to treat particularly the many wel­known authors who have been resi­dents of Indiana such as Booth Tar­kington. Lew Wallace, Meredith Nich­olson, and George Ade. 
3) The department of Science will conduct a series entitled "Science At Work' 'in which the various divisions of pure and applied science ^vill be presented in an interesting manner by means of story and drama. 
4) The department of Speech, in a program entitled "The Speech We Use," will present not only the essen­tial rules for effective speaking but also some of the historj^ of speech and of the words of which it is composed. 
5) "Hoosier History" is the title of the program to be conducted under the direction of the department of History of the University. Indiana is particularly rich in history and it is expected that these stories and dramas will be particularly popular. 
G) "Headline Personalities," which is to be presented by the Journalism department, is to be a human inter­est prograin dealing with the success stories of those who occupy prominent places in the world of today. 
7) The department of Law will present a series of programs designed to bring to the radio audience a bet­ter knowledge of the various types of cases and the procedure of the many different courts in which they are tried. The Bloot court, long a popular feature of the study of law, will be broadcast by the students in this de­partment. 
8) Joe Boland will conduct a series entitled "Athletics" which will deal not merely with football but with all the various sports and the benefits to be derived from each. 
9) Those interested in dramatics will have an opportunitj' for radio ex­periences in the presentation of the series called "The Stories of Great Lives" which, as the title indicates, will be dramatized biography. 
10) The remaining programs will feature various aspects of Philosophy Art, Architecture, and the Classics. 
FROM UNIVERSITy OF CHICAGO 

From the U. of Chicago Bulletin: "Alumni gifts to the University dur­ing 1934-35 totaled $62,615.10. Contri­butions ranged from $1 (plenty of those) to $5,000 (not so many of those). With all due respect to the $5,000 contributions it was the $1 and $5 and $10 contributions that heart­ened the Council. It was these that gave proof through the night that the grads—thousands of them—-were still there." 
Ed. Note: See what the Living En­dowment is aiming at? 



Hidden Phases of Football at Notre Dame 
By REV. HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C, Vice-President of the University 
The ALUMNUS is Happy to Present Here the Address Which Father O'Donnell Delivered at The Sixteenth Annual Notre Dame Football Banquet on January 13. 
It is a very happy occasion that brings us together tonight. The offi­cial family of Notre Dame, her alum­ni and old students, and a host of her friends, meet here to pay tribute to the 1935 football team of the Univer­sity. 
In behalf of Father O'Hara, the president, who is unavoidably absent, his administration, and the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics, I con­gratulate heartily the players of the team and Mr. Layden and his compet­ent coaching staff upon a season of success and achievement. The words "well done" come to mind as I reflect on the brilliant record of last fall. To the team, to our boys, I say you may have given to the world by your play­ing a new phrase "the cardiac iinish," but to us, who appreciate the tradi­tions of the past, you were shining examples of the glorious heritage of the spirit of Notre Dame—modest in victory, brilliant in defeat, and cour­ageous to the bitter end. A team that can't be defeated, will not be defeated. And there are always 60 minutes to every game. 
I am not unmindful either of the business management of the athletic association, which so capably and graciously looked after the innumer­able details connected with the hand­ling of hundreds of thousands of peo­ple, and, as a result, kept their good will for Notre Dame. To all these, therefore, who helped hold high the banner of the Fighting Irish, go our official and heartfelt thanks. 
The reunion of the old-time ath­letes on the campus before the South­ern California game prompts me to review briefly a few historical facts about football at Notre Dame. Before doing so, may I remind this assembly that the first field activity here was not football but cricket. It was played within a space bounded by the or­chard which was in front of the first Administration Building. The games were either interhall or with scrub teams wherever they could be found. One of the memorable games was be­tween the Gimnacs (name for campus gymnastic organization) and a stu­dent team from Kentucky—the stake, a keg of cider, went to the Kentuck­ians. And one might reasonably ask, how could itjbe otherwise? 
The first football game was played on the old Brownson campus. The University of Michigan kindly sent its team here to teach our boys the game. After a few days of rehearsal, the game was played on Nov. 23, 1887. Our boys proved apt pupils and Mich­igan still more apt teachers. Michigan won 8-0. It was the beginning of a happy relationship between t\vo neigh­boring universities which was termi­nated in 1909. It matters not the reasons for the rupture, but it is con­soling to record that the school which taught us football proved to be better pupils than teachers in that last game. 
The first trip taken by a Notre 
'Dame football team was to Chicago in 1889 to play Northwestern. The boys then were more fortunate than our team was last November. Regardless, it was the start of a very pleasant relationship which has so happily en­dured all these years. We cherish it, not only in football, but in all sports, and hope that it will last for many years. 
Passing over the succeeding years, real organization was given to the sport in 189G, when Frank Bering, devoted alumnus and now lay trustee of the University, was engaged as coach. Singularly, the chairman of 
REV. HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C. 

"Over-Emphasis Over-Emphasized." 
the athletic board who made the rec­ommendation to the first Father Walsh, who was then president, is with us tonight—the Rev. Edward Murphy, now special lecturer at the University of Portland, in Oregon. Henceforward, football took on real form here. And after Mr. Bering re­tired in 1899, he was succeeded by James McWeeney, who later became prominent in civic affairs in the neighboring city. 
It is interesting to note that the famous Pat O'Dea of Wisconsin coached our team in 1901 when the lovable Father Farley was a player. Great teams followed. In 1903 Red Salmon starred, and according to the records, won for himself the honor of being the first Notre Dame man to be selected by Walter Camp for one of his three teams. 
Time will not permit a statement about the succeeding years except that I cannot pass over the wonder team of 1909, captain by Howard Ed­wards, with Red Miller, Dimmick and Dolan as stars. This was Gus Dorais' first year as a player. Came Coach Marks in 1911. In that year saw the beginning of the combination which was to become famous in 1913 on the historic plains of West Point when Jesse Harper was coach. I refer to the marvelous Dorais-Rockne combin­ation, whose stellar throwing and re­ceiving of the fonvard pass made the Army think of the old line of the Star Spangled Banner "bombs bursting in air"—^but they stood still. 
Jesse Harper really was the coach who helped Notre Dame to gain the national recognition in football she has since enjoyed. Upon his resigna­tion in 191T, the inimitable and be­loved Knute of happy memory was appointed, and the the record from thence on is known to all of you. 
So, my dear friends, football has had its place in the athletic history of this University. We have had great teams from the beginning. We never say one team is greater than the oth­er, for the obvious reason that com­parisons are always odious and par­ticularly so in athletic activity. Hid­den phases are enlightening. They give an appreciation of the past, that past which is gone, and yet which is so responsible for the body of tradi­tion that has grown up around our gridiron history. 
Moreover, football has its place in intercollegiate life. There may be some reasons for the bugaboo of "over-emphasis," but frankly, I be­lieve that over-emphasis has been very much overemphasized. Any reas­onable season lasts for slightly less than two months. And the distrac­tions that accompany it are healthy ones, because they devote the atten­tion of the students as well as the public from other matters. Moreover, no university in America is such a closed corporation that the public should be deprived of seeing it. And how often it happens that the days of games are the only ones that enable thousands of people to roam the cam­pus, to visit the buildings, to meet the faculty, and to partake reasonably of the hospitalitj- of University life. Such contact is helpful to all con­cerned, and football is partially re­sponsible for it. Granted that there is entertainment afforded, is anyone so short-sighted not to see that public relations in education are as neces­sary as in business? And when I think of the inspiration that is afforded young America by the playing of two college teams, of the joy and happi­ness that such games bring, by way of radio, to the "shut-ins," to the sick in hospitals, to the maimed and suf­fering war veterans, and to countless other classes too numerous to men­tion, I cannot help feeling that there would be an intense void in the rec­reative life of the people of this coun­try if we did not have our fall season of football conducted on the high plane of sportsmanship that charac­terizes it. And I am not unmindful either of the benefit that comes to players in future life, because I sin­cerely believe that the gridiron is a great proving ground for character, which is so necessary for the more highly competitive game of life. The game needs no apology from me. It stands on its merits and its contribu­tion to the recreative life of the country. 
Football, therefore, has its place in intercollegiate relations. It does not detract unduly from the academic life of an institution of learning. And how ridiculous it would be even to think that it could. No educational institu­tion would tolerate it for one moment. Particularly true is this here, where untold sacrifice of bodily and earthly goods over a period of 90 years in the interests of the spiritual and the academic have made possible the Notre Dame of today. If those charged with the responsibility of a university or college find that it does, then the responsibility of correction rests \rith them, and not with indi­viduals prompted with a desire to se­cure publicity from an expression of their views. So far as this Univer­sity is concerned, the president and 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
his faculty board in control of ath­letics accept full responsibility for the conduct of intercollegiate athletics as it affects the academic life of the Uni­versity. It desires at all times to re­ceive constructive suggestions from the various agencies allied to the school. The present administration welcomes this kind of assistance. And yet, all concerned know that there is a limit to this friendly help, and in the last analysis, this University ex­ercises complete independence in the final judgment given. This is as it should be, because Notre Dame al­though a school, is, at the same time, a family, and, as in a family there is the final authority in the head, so, at Notre Dame, the final authority and accompanying responsibility are vest­ed in the president and his council. 

Constant and intelligent improve­ment has been made, we believe, in the administrative program of foot­ball and other athletic activities here. We do not publicize it to the world, because being a family we try to keep it within the limits of the family hearth. Time will not permit me to particularize, but the fact remains that a careful reading of the new con­stitution governin g intercollegiate athletics, as edited by a special com­mittee of the Board under the direc­tion of Father O'Hara, who at the time was vice-president, will convince any unbiased and intelligent reader that this is so. Furthermore, family that we are, we have never pennitted our ineligible student athletes to have their weaknesses broadcast to the na­tion, and thereby, become holocausts on the altar of publicity. We believe that we have a sacred duty to protect these weaknesses, although, as every­one knows, we use paternal measures to correct them, and if unfortunately they cannot be corrected, the obvious course follows. 
Football as an intercollegiate sport will go on, unless the competent au­thority of college presidents and their councils declare otherwise. It has been in vogue for over 50 years, and its stability and worthwhileness have been proved. It is a long way from being relegated to the limbo of the happy hunting ground. May it live for years. 
In conclusion, therefore, I wish to thank all the distinguished guests who have contributed to this evening of happiness. We hope you have enjoyed this program of the Notre Dame fam­ily, and we trust that you will take away %\ith you happy memories of the event. You must have been impressed wtih the brief memorial service of an hour ago, as all of us connected with the University were. I cannot refrain, however, from supplementing the re­marks of the one in charge of this feature by saying just a word about a noble figure whose likeness hangs aloft from that wall. He graced this occasion by his presence many, many 
February. 1936 

times, and how he could grace this or any occasion. He was beloved by all who knew him, by all who heard his golden tongue speak forth the elo­quence of the best classicists. He was the foremost pulpit orator of his day. Blessed with a large physique and charming presence, and gifted with brilliant talents of mind and heart, he went about our country winning and holding friends for the University he so passionately loved, and at the time it needed friends to support its struggling existence. Besides his con­tribution to the spiritual and acad­emic life of the institution, he gave an impetus to its athletic program which is still felt. It was he who engaged Jesse Harper. It was he who made possible Knute Rockne's and Gus Do­rais' student days, and who later en­gaged Knute as Harper's successor. Kindly of manner, generous of heart, brilliant of intellect, he was veritably the spiritual father of the members of the present administration, from the president down, of innumerable faculty members and countless alum­ni. I refer to the Rev. Dr. John Cav­anaugh of happy memory, ninth presi­dent of the University, who went home to his Master on the 22nd day of last March, but his spirit and his work still live. Father Gene Burke characterized his life beautifully when he wrote: 
The world has lost sweet music Since his voice is stilled: And a new shadow Fell across the day W'hen Death wooed him away. 
Tearful we wait Who loved him Beggars at the Kate, _ Asking the cheerj' largess of his smile. And the wholesome bread. His words that fed Our hungrj* hearts awhile. 
I could let fall the warm cloak of this life. Leave the tumultous day For the happy, happy shadows where he 
stands. Yea. I am half in love with Death Since she has caught his hands. 

Peace to his beautiful soul, and may the perpetual light of Notre Dame, his Mother, shine upon him. 
And to you monogram men of this year's team, as you leave this hall to­night and repair to your rooms on this historic campus, think over care­fully, in the solitude of your dwelling, your responsibility as a wearer of Our Lady's monogram as so appropri­ately found on the certificate of the Monogram Club: 
This is to attest to your loyalty as a Varsity football man for 1933 Your name, your deeds—Her in­spiration— A solemn tradition of Notre Dame. 

Accept your responsibility, Notre Dame men, and may God bless you for it. 
February, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Physical Education In The College Program 
By JOHN A. SCANNELL, A.M. Head, Department of Physical Education 
A Paper Read by Professor Scannell Before the Lay Faculty Club of the College of Arts and Letters, Wherein He > Emphasizes One of the Essential Factors in a Happy Life 
It is said that words are only sym­bols used to convey meaning from one person to another and that a word can mean a quite different thing to each of us. My object in this paper is to explain the meaning which the words "Physical Education" has for me and the majority of those profes­sionally interested in it. 
The term "Physical Education" is made up of two words. It is the noun Education with a modifier. Physical. That adjective differentiates it from Art Education, Vocational Education, Music Education. It must be kept in mind, though, that the word physical is the modifier and that this thing we're talking about is only one of the many methods of education. It can well be considered as that type of ed­ucation which attempts to reach its objectives through activities which are largely physical in their nature. I recognize the weakness of this tj-pe of definition and particularly of the phrase "largely physical" when we are constantly being bombarded with warnings against ignoring the essen­tial unity of man in the educational process. 
Physical Education, however, does not ignore the unity of man; its very place in the educational system de­pends on the recognition of this point. It considers that all activities may be viewed on a scale. On the one end we have those activities which involve a minimum of physical actiWty com­bined with a large amount of inter­pretive or mental activity. Work­ing a problem in mathematics is an example of this sort. It cannot be wholly mental; man's nature will not permit it. But the proportion of men­tal activity is much greater than the physical. 
On the other end we have the ac­tivity involved in the games and sports, where the degree of physical activity is proportionately high on the scale. The shot putter, for example, probably represents the opposite ex­treme from the mathematician. Each uses his complete equipment, mental and physical, but the emphasis in each case is different. Some activi­ties are high on both the mental and physical scale. A quarterback in a game of football or a naturalist on a long field trip ranks high in both. The content of the physical education pro­gram is made up of those things high on the scale in the amount of physical activity involved. This could be qual­ified to eliminate certain vocational activities and related activities. 
Physical education is, then, a meth­od of education and as such is one of the oldest known. As we have it at the present day in this country, it has its roots in early Greece and in the countries of Western Europe. The physical education of the Greeks, though much talked of, has come through so many changes before reaching us that it can be passed over here. The Renaissance brought with it, though, a definite interest in the literature of the --Athenian Greeks which had considerable influence on early European physical education. These influences, chiefly felt by the early German leaders, have been passed on to us largely in the lan­guage used, such words as gj'rana­sium, palaestra, stadium, and in the emphasis on the activities popular among the Greeks. These were, of course, the track and field events and boxing and wrestling. 
The program which we have in this counti-y at the present time has its roots largely in three countries. These are England, Germany, and Sweden. We might add Denmark if we wished to consider the influence of the mod­em Danish gymnastics on the system for women in this country, especially in colleges. The system has had little effect on the mass of people, however. 
Each of these countries has made a distinct impression on us. From England have come many of the games played in this country from the early times and also the attitude towai-d play which gives it so prom­inent a place in living. The g\'m­nastic phase of physical education in England has made no mark on us, due both to its lack of original fea­tures and its failure to be introduced at an opportune time. In itself, it is largely Swedish. 
From Germany has come most of the stunt side of physical education as used in the schools. By that I mean the stunts on the heavy appara­tus and the tumbling and pyramid building so often seen. Much of the rh>'thmic tj-pe of calisthenics and marching found in the schools is also German in its origin. Those parts of the country which have a heavy Ger­man population show this type of program at the present time and have had it since the German influx around 1848. An earlier period of interest in German gymnastics lasted for about a decade following its introduc­tion to this country in 1825 by politi­cal refugees. The gymnastics pro­grams of the many Turnvereins in this countiy have also exercised an important influence on school physical education. 
From the Swedes we have the type of school room gymnastics with the extreme emphasis on form and cor­rective values so common in those parts of the East in which an early introduction was very successfully promoted about 1885. 
The eclectic system commonly known as the American system of physical education, clearly shows some parts of each of these, with major emphasis upon the game pro­gram. 
Let us return to the statement made a few minutes ago: that physi­cal education is a method of educa­tion. -A.S one branch of education it does not set up aims different from those of all education, although its contribution to some, as health, is apt to be its greatest selling point. The important thing to keep in mind is that it is an education through the physical and that there is nothing to waiTant the often-held belief that it is an education of or for the physical. Of course, the activities of the pro­gram, depending as they do upon ac­tivity of the big muscle groups of the body, carry with them a physical de­velopment which is greater than that of the aesthetes. It must be remem­bered, though, that this development is a by product of the activity and only in exceptional cases, as for the correction or prevention of physical defects, its objective. 
This thing we are talking about, physical education, is education. How are we then, to look upon this much discussed and rarely agreed upon term "education?" 'To me the word carries two distinct meanings. It is first a process and second a product. As a process, it is the day by day 
participation in activity, the going to class, preparing papers, doing problems. It is "getting an educa­tion." As a product, it is the sum total of the behavior changes which come about as a consequence of that activitj'. The process is not a thing limited to school, the product not a thing at any time in life completed so long as the individual is active. The difference applies regardless of the subject matter dealt with. The teacher of English ha'S a definite pro­gram of study in which the student is to be active. It is a pretty well iixed progi-am, in the early years of one's life at least. That is a process. The teacher's real interest is not in the lessons assigned for their own sake but rather in helping the student to a fuller life by increasing his store of appreciations, bj- equipping him so that he may walk through a libraiy and come away with something worthwhile. He wants him to know that there are Sheridans other than horsemen and that "Beowolf to Hardy" is not the season's newest forivard pass combination. 
Similar considerations might be ap­plied to any field. Let us consider the case in physical education. What are its contributions to these real aims of education? This, I suppose, should call for a statement of what the aims of education should be. That is a discussion apart from this paper so we shall let it go with the state­ment that whatever source you turn to in search for these statements of objectives, three are to be found al­most universally. These are health, worthy use of leisure, and character. 
Health is one of those terms which does not lend itself to ready defini­tion. This is chiefly due to the fact that many of its aspects, even on the physical side, are but little under­stood and the entire field of mental and moral health is little more than scratched. We might safely consider health as "that condition of the or­ganism which makes • for effective lining." This means more than mere absence from disease. It means an abundant health, carrying with it the power to do and the want to do. This powei-, apart from hereditary impetus and the limitations of capacity, is ob­tained by means of development of the organic system through activity. Physical education attempts to assist in the realization of this health ob­jective. It does this in two ways. First, in the life of the school child it presents activities of a health build­ing nature and directs his participa­tion in them. It also, through the conduct, of physical examinations, serves to detect physical defects in the child entering school and through its corrective departments to care for them. It assists in the discover}' of the many undernourished cases in schools, an increasing problem at present. 

Second, it attempts to equip the child \\-ith a set of skills in activities in which he can engage in his after school life and so maintain himself on a high level of physical efficiency. Physical education activities ser\'e in the field of mental health also. Men­tal hygienists are advocating play, enjoyable recreation which will give the individual objective interests and outlooks and combat tendencies to be­come moody, introspective, and intro­verted. We all realize that today in­telligence and personality are of more importance to successful li\'ing than physical power. We have the state­ment that "Socrates with a head-ache is always preferable to a bi-ainless Hercules." But with this realization comes also the knowledge that the' 
PROFESSOR SCANNELL 
"Education through the physical." 
brain is dependent for its welfare upon the health and efficiency of the organic systems of the body, and these in turn may be developed only through muscular activity. 
The second educational objective we named, preparation for the worthy use of leisure, is one that becomes more important each year as the mass of people find themselves with more leisure time than leisure interests. All divisions of education do their part here, of course. Much of the leisure is spent with books, in collect­ing stamps, in working in the garden. The uniqueness of physical educa­tion's contribution lies in the fact that it is one of the few leisure pur­suits which is of sufficient general body activity to serve as an important factor in the maintaining of that abundant health which a man has in the early years of his life. Physical education does its part to realize this objective by teaching those actirities for which organized society provides opportunity for participation. The modern physical education teacher does not limit his progi-am to dumb­bells (the term applies both to appara­tus and student) nor does he confine himself to the so-called major sports. He wants his graduate so equipped that he may enjoy a round of golf on a summer day, or so that he may play a few fast sets of tennis if the desire for activity is there but the time for golf is not. He wants his graduate to be a good water man who can enjoy a healthful and invigorat­ing quarter hour of plunging and 
sprinting on a busy winter day or can lazy through a full day of rest and enjoyment at the beach in the summer time. He wants him to be ready to take his place in a team game like volleyball, or to enjoy him­self at handball or squash with a friend. He feels that the man who is prepared with activities for any sea­son, whether alone, or with a friend, or as a member of a larger group, is prepared to get a lot of fun out of what leisure his life work may offer him. Doubtless we will make little gain in the use of leisure until we overcome the notion that play must be profitable. We sell golf, etc., be­cause they are healthful. We are told not to let the golden hours slip by, though we well know they usually are golden when they do slip by. We should have the plav^ attitude, the feeling that the activity is desirable for its' o\vn sake, sufficiently strong to assure the cany over of these play activities. 
The third objective we named, character, is conti-ibuted to insofar as physical education assists in the adjustment of the individual to the gi-oup and to society. Chai-acter, as we see it in operation, and as we are interested in it here, can probably be considered as "a series of action traits." This side of character is sub­ject to control and therefore to modi­fication. It is exemplified by proper response to situations calling for sportsmanship, seriice, sense of in­dividual and property rights; com­monly, fair play. These reactions come in physical education acti\-ities at times of great emotional stress. Through their control- and the doing of the right thing is brought about a strengthened character. 
It is here too that physical educa­tion makes a contribution toward citi­zenship training. As travel and ex­change of ideas broaden the adult, so does the give and take of group par­ticipation make for a better under­standing of how to get along with other people of different tempera­ments and views. The niles of the games are on a small scale the equiv­alent of the laws of society and these similarities may be impressed upon the child by the teacher. In an ar­ticle in the New York Herald-Tribune last spring the New York City super­intendent of schools referred to the "Black Sox Scandal" as one of the greatest lessons ever put before American youth. His feeling was that it, more than any other single incident, made boys conscious of the fact that games involve more than the mechanics which win. The ban­ishment of the players involved from all organized baseball as a conse­quence of dishonesty he considered as one of the most striking examples of society's attitude toward the cheat. 
Much of the worth of the program 
(Continued on Page 136) 

February, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 


The President's Page 
i, T is unfortunate that all of you cannot sit with the Board 
of Directors at a meeting such as was held at Notre Dame on 
January 13. 
Not that the brilliance of discussion or the far reach of 
results would compel you to an awe-struck "What a Board!" 
But I am confident that you would realize before the too 
short afternoon wore away that you are a member of an .Asso­
ciation which has unlimited possibilities. 
Too many times we identify an alumni association, like a 
coat of arms, as a large body of men against a gold and blue 
background with a stein of beer and a football rampant. 
Social implications of our Association, as the Club pages 
of your ALUMNUS, as your Commencement aaivities, tell 
you, are adequately recognized. 
A meeting of the Board no longer concerns itself with 
more than a summary of the splendid programs already in 
effect which achieve this fraternal end and provide a color for 
the alumni scene. 
Notre Dame approaches its centennial,' in 1842. Rapid 
growth has been comparatively recent. But still a fine matur­
ity is reflected in even the new buildings, which, as they rise, 
become evidently the realizations of an old plan. 
At the present rate of progress, Notre Dame will present 
to the world on its 100th birthday a splendid picture, rich in 
wisdom and rich in achievement. 
Increasingly apparent to members of the Board is the con­
viction that if we are to share in the celebration of this great 
event, as is natural and anticipated, we must not provide a 
discordant note. 
The Alumni Association, within the ne.xt five years, must gather its latent strength, coordinate its splendid agencies al­ready existing, and develop a unity of plan and a concreteness of achievement that will reflect creditably upon the University which is its source. 
Two projects arising in the Board meeting of January 13 
contain elements of this maturity and unity. One is the development of a placement service for young graduates. 
The implications of this service are almost too obvious to require comment. But it must not be forgotten that the theory and the practice are not equally realized. Many handicaps prevent immediate establishment of a central placement bureau. Finances, as in the case of so many Association projects, are not the least of these. 
But the Board has determined to enlist every available agency for the immediate launching of efforts along this line, so that as the added facilities become possible, the foundation will be laid. 
Local Alumni Clubs are urged again to adopt a program that can, almost in itself, launch this service. A committee in the Club, centralizing effort, can contact all local agencies of employment, probably many of them having an alumnus as a ready medium. Names of local graduates of the 1936 Class 
will be sent to these committees shortly after the second semes­
ter opens, by the Alumni Office. These boys, not otherwise 
placed, can be the first concern of the Club committee. Ade­
quate recommendation will be secured for the names submitted, 
so that what is done will automatically build up future rela­
tions. Openings for the young graduates which cannot be 
filled locally can be referred to the Alumni Office or the de­
partment head at Notre Dame for possible extension of the 
service on a mutually helpful basis to all our graduates. 
And always, everywhere, oppornmities can be sought for 
the unemployed alumnus or for placing an employed alumnus 
to better advantage, professionally or financially. 

T HE second project has a great deal of sentiment attached 
to it. It may likewise involve too many difficulties to be 
practicable. But it is certainly worth thought. 
Every alumnus who has children has, inevitably, the hope 
that these children will inherit an equal, if not a greater, edu­
cational opportunity. The financial burden of education be­
comes increasingly difficult. Notre Dame, for instance, has 
almost one-third of its present student body working for the 
University. The financial burden on the University, in spite 
of service returns, is a tax upon an income already very limited 
and inadequate for the demands of the academic status of the 
school and the present overhead of the large physical plant. 
It is easily conceivable, within the next 20 years or sooner, 
that the sons of alumni alone, of college ag^ could equal the 
present student enrollment. Obviously the University, no 
matter what its desires, would be unable to extend financial 
help to all of these boys, or even the majority. Nor will the 
alumni txpect it. 

The Board a year ago considered this situation, and sug­
gested the establishment of a plan whereby, through small 
periodic contributions, made either to the University or some 
other agency, a fund could be built up by the alumnus for the 
education of his children. 
Upon mature study, so many handicaps of a physical and moral nature seem to rest on the side of the University's ad­ministration of such a fund, that the Board has almost been forced to consider the launching of such a plan through some insurance medium. The insurance medium on the surface and immediately carries many benefits which would be impossible under University administration. 
On the other hand, certain difficulties exist in the adoption of the insurance medium. So much so, the matter has been referred for further study, and the aid of Mr. Frank Lloyd, . comptroller of the University, solicited. 
Opinions of alumni on the general objective would be ap-­predated in arriving at an acceptable solution. 
BERNARD J. VOLL, '17, 
President of the Association^ 


Father Kemper and Notre Dame 
Texas Priest Celebrates Silver Jubilee, Dedicates New Church. 
The ALUMXUS is going to get just a little bit personal, because that's the only way you can treat the remark­able case at hand. 
Rev. Henry Kemper, Litt.B., '05, A.M., '06, in celebration of his silver jubilee in the priesthood, Dec. 8 last, dedicated in Kerrville, "Texas, a new-Church, called Notre Dame. 
It is hard to write the story, be­cause it borders on the unreal, with only a strong spiritual motive pro­viding any explanation at all, and certainly the hand of God evident. 
Father Kemper himself is handi­capped in health, natural conditions having assigned his death long before this. On the contrary, he has devel­oped in Kernille the Notre Dame Institute, with all his love of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and his devo­tion to Our Lady reflected in repro­ducing the devotion and the spirit of Notre Dame in the Texas institution. The Institute has received mention in the ALUMNUS many times. 
Now, rounding out his work there, he dedicated, on the beautiful Feast of Our Lady, a church, which con­tinues this interwoven theme of love and loyalty. 
Materialized out of the economic depression, refused permission to so­licit funds, the Church can only rep­resent the fruit of a great cause, sup­ported by great labor. In this it has an added bond with Father Kemper's alma mater. 
On the facade of the new building, done in mission architecture, the name, "Notre Dame," appears in gold and blue. MonograiHS are inscribed on the front arch. There is a Notre Dame window, and all of the windows are gold and blue. 
In the heart of a country rich in its Catholic traditions, Father Kem­per is building a new and inspiring tradition in which every alumnus of Notre Dame, as well as the University itself, shares. 
Father Kemper was surprised with a serious lung hemorrhage at 1:30 
a.m. on July 20, 1910, at the summer villa of the North American College adjoining the papal exterritorial pos­session in Castel Gandolfo. His Chi­cago bishop was informed and kindly directed that he be given subdeacon­ate orders in St. John Latem's Ba­silica by the Vicar of Rome, Peter Cardinal Respighi, Sept. 24. The levite was then to go home and recup­erate. -A.rchbishop Quigley ordained him deacon in his episcopal residence on Dec. G, and the next day, ordained him priest in the Convent of the Poor Clares so that his two cloistered sis­ters could witness the ceremony. On the feast of the Immaculate Concep­tion of Our Lady, Dec. 8, he read his first Mass in St. Michael's Church where he had been baptized Oct. 1, 1882, five days after his birth. 
MOLLIS AND KELLY 
Christopher HoUis, noted economist and author who is on the faculty at Notre Dame during the current school year, was one of the chief speakers at the Catholic Conference on Industrial Problems which was conducted in the Palmer House, Chicago, on Jan. 27 and 28. D. F. Kelly, LL.D., '30, was chairman of one of the meetings. 
February, 1936 


NOTRE DAME LAWYERS 
The following are for addition to the lists of lawyers which appeared in the December and January issues of the ALUMNUS: 
CALIFORNIA Los Angeles 
Friedman, Garchin, LL.B., '31 403 W. 8th St. (bus.) 1120% S. Normandie (res.) 
Gass, Charles S., LL.B., '30 2201% Ocean View 
INDIANA 
Lafayette 
Ferguson, D. Emmett, LL.B., '32 Wallace Building 
South Bend 
Knoblock, Eugene C, LL.B., '27 711 J. M. S- Building (bus.) 1229 Diamond Ave. (res.) 
MASSACHUSETTS Boston 
Dunn, Richard J., LL.B., '18 260 Tremont St. (bus.) 300 Waverly Ave., Newton, (res.) 
NEW YORK BuiFalo 
Snyder, Phil, os. '18 Liberty Bank Bldg. (bus.) 11 Bentham Plnvy, Snyder, (res.) 
PENNSYLVANIA 


Scranton 
Boland, John E., A.B., '31 Scranton Electric Bldg. 1402 Linden St. (res.) 
WASHINGTON Seattle Lenihan, Emmett G., Ph. B., '15 1405 Hoge-Building 
The Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C, director of studies, announced that 34 students finished their undergraduate work at the end of the first semester on Jan. 30. 

FATHER TOM WALSH, PEESIDBNT; FATHER MORBISSEY, AND WHO ELSE? A Faculty and Student Group of 18S5-86. Sent in by J. F. Cord. 




Philosophy and Society: A Radio Address 
BY FRANCIS E. McMAHON, Ph.D., Instructor in Philosophy 
Professor McMahon Delivered this Address on Dec. 16, 1935 From the Campus Studios Over the Combined Facilities of Station WFAM, South Bend, and WIND, Gary, As One of the First of a New Series of Similar Interesting Presentations. 
The main question that I want to answer in this talk tonight is about the role of philosophy in the life of an educated man and in the society in which he lives. But before an­swering this question it is important that we have a correct idea of what philosophy is. For our purposes, we can distinguish several different kinds of knowledge, of which philosophy is one. The first kind is oi-dinaiy knowl­edge, and it is possessed by all normal men. It is knowledge largely about facts and about how to act in relation to these facts. It is the knowledge by which we can use a telephone, turn on a radio, conduct ourselves properly when in the presence of other people, etc. This knowledge is acquired largely in a piece-meal  The philosopher wants to know where in the last analysis both men and radios come from: what is their rela­tion to the universe as a whole: he wants to know whether the whole material universe has a cause which lies outside of the universe itself; and whether the great forces behind the universe, if they exist, are blind or in­telligent. In other woi'ds the philos­opher deals with ultimate causes, whereas the scientist deals with imme­diate causes. Science is not philoso­phy, and philosophy is not science. Science by its very nature cannot an­swer the questions of philosophy; and philosophy by its very nature cannot answer the questions of science. Un­fortunately many scientists and many  philosophers constantly confuse the two fields. And the result frequently does credit neither to science nor to philosophy. There is a last form of knowledge that I want to mention briefly. That is religious knowledge, or theology. Theology treats of matters derived from a special divine revelation through the Holy Scriptures and through tradition: it is a kind of knowledge not gained by the unaided human reason, but deriving from some supernatural source. It differs therefore from both science and phi­losophy, in that these latter are the result of the natural use of the reas­oning powers. In ray talk this eve­ning, it must be understood that I am not referring to theology, but purely to philosophy.  
fashion, but it is, nevertheless, neces­sary in order to live normally in the world of practical affairs. There is a second kind of knowledge, the knowledge proper to the chemist, the physicist, the geologist and the like: it is called scientific knowledge, or science. Now scientific knowledge differs in two important respects from ordinary knowledge. First, it is ac­quired generally not in' a haphazard way but in an orderly manner. The scientist begins at a certain point and proceeds step by step in a certain direction. Secondly, it is concerned with causes, and not merely with facts. Thus, the scientist wants to know what causes a radio to operate, from the moment the voice enters the microphone until it leaves the re­ceiver. He traces the causal connec­tions, and indicates the order in which they occur. He is not satisfied until he has discovered everj' element in the series, and has put this' element in its proper place in that series. Or­derly procedure and search for causes characterize the scientist.  Michiana and Chicagoland ATTENTION! A cross-section of academic life at the University is being given this winter in a series of programs over WFAM, the South Bend Trib­une's broadcasting station and WIND, of Gary, by members of the faculty. Their lectures, Monday nights at 7 o'clock, relate to problems of science, law, commerce, and eco­nomics, and tell of advances in each Held. The broadcasts originate in the campus studios. The speakers and dates follow: Albert L. Doyle, LL.B., head of the department of speech, Jan. 13; Henry C. F. Staunton, professor of English, Jan. 20; Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Ph.D., profes­sor of sociology and economics, Jan. 27; F. N. M. Brown, head of the department of aeronautical  When I assert that philosophy seeks to determine the ultimate whence and why of all things, some may have the impression that philosophy deals with matters that the human mind can never determine with certainty. In an age such as our own, when some of the most prominent thinkers pro­fess doubt, that is scepticism, about the ultimate nature of reality, it may appear extravagant to say that it is possible for the human reason to work out a coherent and rational plan of the universe. The spirit of scepticism is unquestionably dominant today. It is one of the fashions of the time to believe that the only world we can be certain of is the one that surrounds our own individual lives. Open almost any popular book of philosophy or of serious literature today, and you will see the author de­claring that the human mind cannot answer with any finality the great ques­tions of philosophy, such as, "Is there a God?"; "Is the soul spiritual and immortal?"; "Are fundamental stand­ards of right and wrong unchang­ 
There is a third kind of knowledge, philosophical knowledge, or philoso­phy. Like ordinary knowledge, phi­losophy considers facts; and like sci­entific knowledge, it considers the causes behind these facts. Philoso­phy, however, differs from both. The philosopher seeks to know what are the more deeply underlying causes behind all facts; he seeks for causes that the scientist as such ignores.  engineering, Feb. 3; James A. Rey­niers, professor of biology, Feb. 10; Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C, Ph.D., dean of the college of science, Feb. 17; Thomas F. Konop, dean of the college of law, Feb. 24; Rev. Edward A. Keller, C.S.C, professor of economics, March 2; and James £. McCarthy, dean of the college of commerce, March 9.  ing?"; "Are men accountable to a higher power for their thoughts and deeds?" Never perhaps in the history of Western Man has scepticism been so widespread as it is today. But I imagine that the philosopher above all should stand aloof from the fashions of his age, examine these fashions critically, and determine whether it is advisable to accept them. What is the fashion of the  

hour is not necessarily permanent, true, or healthy. 1 for one refuse to follow the new because it is new, or to reject the old because it is old. The sceptical attitude, if popular to­day, to my mind appears neither reas­onable nor morally healthy. The sceptic is one who has withdrawn into his own private world of immediate sense experience, and who believes that beyond this little world there is really no certaintj% no hope, and no future. The past tells him nothing, except that men have constantly pur­sued ever-fleeting ceilainty and con­viction. The future for him is shrouded in absolute mysterj-. Above, below and around him are great question marks. Seek not from the sceptic inspiration or encouragement. And observe a culture steeped in a mood of scepticism decline spiritually, mentally and raoi-ally into ever great­er depths. The most popular thinkers of this culture will pique themselves on their power to state both sides of a great question with equal facility and persuasiveness. The masses, lack­
ing healthy intellectual leadership, in­eritably suffer. If any system of thought stands condemned by its fruits, then scepticism stands con­demned. For its fruits are the ills of the world today, a world torn by international dissension, political in­stability, and social discontent. 
If it is reactionary and out-of-date to protest against this sceptical at­titude then I may be called such. If it is naive to look to the past for en­lightenment upon the great questions of philosophy, then I am certainly naive. If to move in a great anti­sceptical spiritual tradition, the posi­tive tradition of Plato and Aristotle, of Augustine and Thomas Aquinas, is sign of intellectual adolescence, then some of us are very adolescent. 
Faith in our powers of reasoning is one of the great needs of the time. A sceptical attitude in relation to ul­timate causes renders a nation and an entire culture morbid and despairful. But a philosophy opposite to that of scepticism, a positive philosophy I mean, can energize that culture, quicken interest, and direct it to a Tiealthy peace and a prosperous life. T do not say that all positive philoso­
•phies
 will do this. It is just as im­portant to be sure our positive con­victions are sound as that they are 

•positive.
 Frankly, there are only two positive philosophies that interest me today, because I believe there are •only two which appear to have :strength and really to possess the souls of men. One is the positive phi­losophy of Communism; the other is 

•the
 positive philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas. When the sceptics tire of their scepticism, as they inevitably Tvill, the real contestants will emerge, the Communist and the Thomist. 


When the father of Communism, Nikolai Lenin, was formulating his 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
progi-am of economic, political and social reform, he did not neglect the philosophical foundations. However we may reject his principles—as I do —^we must give him credit for some vision. He saw that great changes could only be effected by giving men a positive philosophy, by impressing upon their minds a vision of the to­tality of things. Only then would they have the inspiration to do gi-eat things, even to transform a culture. Lenin studied his philosophers, his Marx, his Hegel, and his Feuerbach. In these men he found his philosophy, the philosophy of Dialectical Mate­rialism. And in Moscow today, there is an institution where young Com­munists study this philosophy. Every Communist worth his salt is expected to know the philosophy behind the movement. If Communism is mad­ness, as I believe it is, at least there is method in the madness. 
And at the very moment Lenin is thinking and plotting, there was a certain man in the Vatican who w^as watching intensely the drama of mod­em life. This man was Pope Leo 
XIII. Acutely sensible to the needs of our times, this Pope realized that only a sound positivistic philosophy together with Di\-ine grace and char­ity could check the decline of culture, and put sanity back into social, eco­nomic and political thought. From his watch-tower in the Vatican, Pope Leo in 1879 had called upon the world to restore to its rightful place the philosophy of St. Thomas Aquin­as, a philosophy that contained the best of a Plato, an Aristotle and an Augustine, the best of Greek and mediaeval thought. 
Even the sceptic of today admires the Gothic cathedrals of Europe. But the sceptic does not know that the most beautiful human product of mediaeval life was not the cathedral, but the philosophy of Aquinas. This philosophy is still a closed book to him. But if he were to open it and read with understanding eyes perhaps he would learn that most of his doubts could he settled, and most of his difficulties answered. The philos­ophy of St. Thomas Aquinas is not proposed as a thirteenth century curi­osity which pleases the fancy, but as a rational and consistent ^^ew of the universe which can withstand the most critical analysis, and which can provide men with a safeguard against a decadent scepticism or an inhuman materialism. The modem man has lost faith in himself. Bj' a return to the spiritual tradition of his fathers, a tradition from which he has sev­ered himself, he can find himself anew. There seems to be only one other alternative — intellectual and moral death. 
Aquinas wrote-not merely for his own time, but for all time. He was a man, of course, of deep religious faith, and therefore humble of spirit. 
February. 1936 

But he did not underestimate the powers of the human mind, lest he thereby underestimate the power of 
its Creator. Because human, the mind of man is unable to know all things ex­haustively, but, because mind, it was in certain contact with the first prin­ciples of being. Upon this firm founda­tion he constructed his philosophy, the great Thomistic synthesis. The exist­ence of a God, First Cause and Last End of all things; the nature of man and of his uniqueness in the material universe; the basic principles of mo­rality; man's obligations to God and to his fellow men; the ethical relations between states and their citizens, and of states to one another. Such are some of the problems masterly treated in this synthesis. If many thoughtful and sincere men seek light upon these great problems; if minds today grope despairingly for conviction, perhaps their search of the past will not be in vain. 
ADDITIONS TO ART COLLEaiON 
Several important additions to the fine arts collection of Notre Dame, regarded as one of the outstanding in the Mid-west, have been acknowledged by the Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president. 
A dower chest of Italian origin, a "cassoni" was presented by Mrs. Alice AVickett, donor of the Wickett collec­tion. The chest is hand-tooled, cov­ered with gold leaf and highly orna­mented. One end of the chest bears the painting of a bride and the other, a groom. The front is covered with a landscape scene. The chest, which was made in Milan in the 16th century, was once the propertj^ of the late Mrs. Edith Rockefeller McCormick. 
Other rare pieces, including the bed of Catherine de Medici and an an­tique hand-carved and hand embroid­ered chair, were given several years ago to the collection by Mrs. Wickett. 
Three bronze busts were recently forwarded to Father O'Hara by the Very Rev. John J. Kealy of Harris­burg, Pa. The busts were the prop­erty of the late Most Rev. Philip E. McDevitt, bishop of Harrisburg, and represent the bishop, the late Bishop Patrick John Ryan, Archbishop of Philadelphia from 1884 to 1911, and the third is believed to be the mother of Bishop McDevitt. 
The bronze bears the date of 1902 and the sculptor's name, S. Murray. 

BUSINESS OPPORTUNIT/ 

Young alumni, interested in the field of life insurance salesmanship (after thorough training by one of the well-known companies) can get information from the Alumni Office with regard to an opening in the Middle West. Only those hoping to enter the insurance profession on a permanent basis ought to apply. 



 CAMPUS ACTIVITIES 
SLEIGH RIDE— 

Carelessly neglecting to consider the vagaries of Indiana weather, fifteen Notre Dame men and a like number of St. Mary's ladies em­barked on a sleigh ride to a popular inn, celebrated for is good food, out­side of South Bend. The party split into two groups, but, much to the disappointment of group number two, who arrived at the place of ren­tal slightly behind their friends, group number one had already ap­propriated the only sleigh in the establishment. Consequently, the late­comers had to be content with a hay­rack. When it came time to return home, however, it was discovered that the icy road still led back to South Bend, with the exception that the word "icy" had been replaced by "slushy." The noble beasts hired for the occasion proved unequal to the task with the result that horse-power was augmented by Notre Dame man­power. Those who had come in the hayrack rode slowly home behind the sleighpushers solemnly chanting the "Volga Boatman." 
Time JMai-ches On! 
CAMPUS ACTIVITIES— 

After the holiday season the com­ing semester "smaxe" (if you want to be technical turn the word around and make "exams" out of it, for some reason the transposition takes from the woi'd some of its dread connota­tion) crept up on the student body and made them forcibly realize that all play and no work throughout a semester makes Jack turn in a very dull paper. For the past month the campus has become the "House of a Thousand. Candles" with the under­classmen utilizing that primitive method of illumination to circuimvent the University regulation of early "lights out." Little Jack Little and his orchestra came to town on a Sunday night for only a buck ten and caused nary a ripple as far as Notre Dame was concerned. The strain is causing the boys to become a little fretful. Else how explain the booing which greeted Bill JlcVay, of Brad­ford, Pennsylvania, who, playing the part . of a professor of geology stranded in the Antartic, in the Uni­versity's theatre's first production of the year, "The World Waits," spoke the lines, "If I were only back at the University now I would be making out my spring examination ques­
By John J. Lechner, '37 

tions"? Or this evidence of irritation within Notre Dame's ordinarily hap­py family which appeared on the bulletin board of the Main Building: 
"To the bird who found my gar­net-set ring! Don't you read the the Bulletin? What kind of a bird are you anyway? My address is 206 Blank hall. Cheating shows!" 

ARE THESE OUR CHILDREN? 
Times being what they are, with Notre Dame making the front pages of the local newspapers with such episodes as the sleigh-ride incident, we might as well let down our hair this month and Tell All. Just pre­vious to Christmas vacation, Notre Dame's ideal in masculinity, Bill Shakespeare, led a group of Seniors over to St. Mary's to fill the air with uncertain renditions of Christmas carols. Whether this example had anything to do with it or not we are unable to say, but the fact remains that during the holidays another Senior, John Jlalonty of Chicago, ser\'ed as a judge at a woman's fashion show in one of the largest department stores in his home city. Of coui-se men from other colleges besides Notre Dame were acting on that occasion in judicial capacity— Here we are actually apologizing for the unfortunate wretch! If this soft­ness on our part keeps up there will be nothing for us to do but cancel our subscription to Vogue, even though we did get it at a greatly re­duced rate on one of those "Get-the­magazine-you-want and two others you don't want" plans. 
THE MONTH IN BRIEF— 
Scrij), the campus literary quarter­ly, made its second appearance of the year .. . It is rumored that the University theatre's next presenta­tion will be "Journey's End," a play which enjoyed a long Broadway run a few seasons back . . . Edward and Edwin Stack, of South Bend, In­diana, junioi-s in chemical engineer­ing, were declared the most identical twins in the United States at the National twins' convention in 1933... With the official opening of St. Mary's new postoffice (Holy Cross, Indiana) it now costs three cents to send a letter to the House Across the Lake . . . Sister M. Nazareth, C. S. C, is postmistress . . . According to the rotogravure section of the Chicago Tribune the four ranking St. Mary's beauties are Eita O'Brien of Pitts­burgh, Charlotte Moore, of Detroit, Patricia Crumley of Cincinnati, and Rosario Pereyo, Humacao, Porto Eico .. . We mustn't forget to men­tion that a coterie of sophomores drove another nail into the coffin of "The Music Goes 'Eound and 'Round" by vigorously singing the chorus of that insanity to the accompaniment of an outside radio in downtown South Bend . . . Commerce men held a one day advertising clinic, hearing 
M. T. Eeilly, of the Chicago Tribune, 
W. K. Lamport, of the Lamport-Fox Advertising agency (South Bend), and Homer Buckley, of the Buckley-Dement company of Chicago, speak­ing on newspaper, agency, and direct mail advertising respectively . . . The announcement of Wayne Mill-ner's year-ago marriage came as a sui-prise to the general student body 
. . . After the mix-ups in last season's Pittsburgh encounter and this year's Northwestern game we wouldn't be surprised to hear that basketball coach George Keogan had decided to call out his score—and time-keepers for spring practice along with his net squad . . . Dillon hall, debating the question "Eesolved: Congress should have the power to override a decision of the Supreme Court by a two­third's majority," defeated Sorin hall for the travelling Lemmer trophy, symbolic of the interhall debating championship . . . Members of the winning team were Bobert Heywood, New Eichmond, Wisconsin; Charles Colgan, Buenos Aires, Argentina, and Frank O'Laughlin, Fort Wayne, Indi­ana . . . Shane Leslie, noted Irish statesman and authority on Swift and Shakespeare, who spent a semester on campus last year as a guest profes­sor^, has presented the University with an Elizabethan manuscript . .' . At the Notre Dame club of St. Joseph Valley sixteenth annual testimonial football banquet a 300-year-old, 250­pound turtle was one of the items that helped make the affair a gastro­nomical success . . . Further expan­sion of the University radio station has been announced by the Eev. Eugene Burke, C. S. C, faculty direc­tor . . . Whether a publicity stunt or not the ??5000 scholarship to be awarded by Eddie Cantor (nee Ed­ward Iskowitz) has evoked favorable campus comment . . . We'll be seeing you again afer examinations . . . "And the wheel of fortune spins" . . . 
The Notre Dame Alumnus February, 1936 
Debaters Arrange Heavy Schedule 
To Meet Alabama and Pennsylvania; Open February 13 Against St. Viator's. 
With two intersectional contests with Alabama and Pennsylvania uni­versities on their schedule and other engagements listed with schools in the Midwest, debaters at Notre Dame are making iinal preparations for a stren­uous season. St. Viator College of Bourbonnais, 111., will open the sched­ule on Thursday night, Feb. 13, with a debate in Washington Hall, on the campus. 
Twelve men have been selected by Professor William A. Coj-ne, '27, di­rector of debating, through prelimin­ary, elimination debates, and will compose the A and B varsity squad teams. 
Two questions, one especially for radio broadcasts, will be debated this year: the major question: "Resolved, that Congress should have power to override by a two-third majority vote decisions of the Supreme Court de­claring laws passed by Congress un­constitutional," the radio question: "Resolved, that the several states should adopt in principle the Nebras­ka plan of a unicameral plan of leg­islature. 
Those named by Professor Coyne include the following: A team, affirm­ative, John Heywood, Robert Burke, Gene Malloy; negative, Robert Schmelzle, Richard Meier, Arthur Sandusky; B team affirmative, David Flynn, James Nemey, John Marbach; negative, John Schemmer, Robert Heywood, Robert Colgan. 
Thomas Proctor and John Locher, graduate students in the College of Law, Avill participate in the radio debates. 
The schedule: 

Feb. 20. University of Pennsylvania affirmative at Notre Dame.* Feb. 21-22. Manchester tournament at North Manchester. Feb. 23. Chicago-Kent College of Law over WGN, unicameral question. March 6-7. Iowa XJ. tournament. March 9. Creighton University at Creighton. March 13 or 15. University of Buf­falo at Notre Dame. March 17. Michigan State at Michi­gan State. March 19. Michigan State at Notre Dame. March 25. Alabama University at Notre Dame. 
March 26. Creighton University at Notre Dame.* 
March 28. St. Viator's College over station WCFL, unicameral question. 
April — University of Buffalo at Buffalo. (Date indefinite.) 
* Non-decision debates. 
Debating teams at Notre Dame have established a record on the plat­form which rivals, if not excels, the accomplishments of the Irish football squads. Since 1899 Notre Dame de­baters have won 121 of 181 intercol­legiate contests, lost 41 and taken part in 18 no-decision discussions. 
Last year the team won decisions over such opponents as Leland Stan­ford and Michigan State, and were successful in the Delta Sigma Rho tournament at Iowa City, la. 
Notre Dame 


Books 
Prof. Frederick, Fathers Ward and Lahey Are Represented. 

READING FOR WRITING, Studies in Substance and Form, by John T. Frederick and Leo L. Ward, '20. 
F. S. Crofts & Co. New York. 1935. 
Crisply titled, this newest book by the authors of Good Writing purposes to teach the student to "write well by becoming familiar with good writing." Selections of undoubted distinction are followed each by helpful "Sugges­tions for Study" and "Suggestions for Writing." These latter should be es­pecially valuable to the student since they correlate so skilfully the mater­ial in the selection and possible mat­ter for similar writings of his own. Under such guidance, even the most meager experience should yield some meat. 
The book is divided into six general sections . Informational Writing, Reading and Writing, Ideas and Opin­ions, Preferences and Prejudices, Ex­perience, and Sketch and Story. 
Not the least praiseful thing about the book is the freshness and vigor of the selected material. No student will read the book with reluctance, how­ever he may shy at the work mapped out for him when the fun is over. 
Professor Frederick is a member of the faculties of both Northwestern University and Notre Dame, and Father Ward, we need not mention, is a distinguished member of the Notre Dame department of English. 
GOD'S HEROES, A Study of the Saints for Children. By Rev. Thos. 
A. Lahey, C.S.C, '11. The Ave Ma­ria Press, Notre Dame, Indiana. Pamphlets five cents each. 
This popular series of pamphlets, with its second printing of 30,000 copies nearly exhausted, is now going into its third edition—this time in book form — with the demand from parents, teachers and children as brisk as ever. 
Made up, in the first two printings, of 20 pamphlets, each attractively jacketed in a different color (a point which will seem trivial only to those who do not know children) the series includes such interesting titles as "Can Boys and Girls Become Saints?" "Saints Who Were Adventurers," "Saints and Animals," "Bravery of the Saints." 
In a vivacious style admirably suit­ed to the child reader, the booklets tell "how interesting the lives of the saints really were—how happy and human and how filled with the most wonderful adventures." 
MANUSCRIPTS AND MEJIORIES, Rev. Michael Earls, S.J. The Bruce Publishing Co., Milwaukee. 1935. §2.25. 
Father Earls' charming book is of special interest to Notre Dame men because many of its pages contain his happily-recorded memories of four eminent Notre Dame figures, Father Arthur Barry O'Neill, C.S.C, Father Daniel E. Hudson, C.S.C, Professor Charles Warren Stoddard and Pro­fessor Maurice Francis Egan. 
Writing in the South Bend Netvs-Tivies, Paul R. Martin, '09, associate editor of the paper, says of Father Earls' book: 
"Father Earls' purpose in writing this book is to set down his mem­ories of some men of letters he has known and virtually all of whom were, like himself, alumni of Holy Cross or Georgetown. However, out of the several to whom he gives his attention, four have been so intimate­ly connected with Notre Dame that Father Earls could not have done a better job had he been writing at the behest of the Notre Dame Alumni as­sociation. As a result, there are many here in South Bend who will love this book just as much as did the present reviewer. As for Notre Dame—well, faculty and students would do well to make it their very own." 



The Nature of Chemistry: What It is'nt 
BV PROFESSOR HENRY B. FRONING, A.M. Head, Department of Chemistry 
What Chemistry Is and. Especially. What It Is Not Are Clearly Explained In This Paper Which Professor Froning Read Over the Radio from Notre Dame 
For many years I have been con­stantly impressed with the fact that people generally do not have clear­cut notions about the subject matter of the science of chemistry. 
More than thirty years ago an old friend of mine, who was puzzled be­cause I was going back to college to study more chemistry, wanted to know what "this chemistry" was all about—and just recently I was asked to predict the weather and, upon ad­mitting my ignorance in this respect, was told: "Are you not a chemist!" 
Elaborately illustrated articles in 
*he Sunday newspaper supplements, 
dealing ^\•ith strikingly unusual per­
formances of the professional chemist, 
have further helped to distort the no­
tions of the general public in regard 
to this interesting, this practical and 
difficult science. 
Even the college graduate who has not studied this subject is not only bewildered by the ten or more syllable names of chemical compounds, but he labors under the weight of the mass of such general terminology as atom, element, compound, molecule, theory, hypothesis, postulate, allotropism, iso­merism, diazotization, colloidal solu­tion, molecular rearrangement, and so on ad infinitum. When he has mas­tered the meaning of these simple terms, he is confronted with the ex­pansion in nomenclature, such as has grown up around the modem studies of the architecture of the most minute particle of matter, ordinarily recog­nized by man, the atom. 
When the chemist avers that one microscopic yeast cell, of which it takes about a million to make a par­ticle the size of a pin head, contains about one dozen inorganic salts, eight or nine different carbohydrates, five proteins, thirteen amino acids, five purine compounds, eight hormones and a complement of 22 enzymes, and then avers further that such a single yeast cell has room for one-half bil­lion molecules with a molecular weight of 100,000 each, and still fur­ther avers that these molecules in turn are made up of atoms and then finally begins to call the roll of the still smaller particles of which these atoms are composed which he has named nucleus, electron, proton, neu­tron, positron, etc.—is it any wonder 
tnat heads begin to swim and that the public wants to know whether or not it is all a matter of words only, de­signed to confuse the uninitiated, or that these things are creations of fer­tile imaginations? 
Let me, at the outset, say that all of these things are real, are definitely known and proven facts and let me repeat, therefore, that chemistry is an interesting, practical, albeit a difficult science. 
Naturally I do not have the temer­ity to attempt to explain all these matters in a fifteen-minute lecture over the radio. Those of us in the profession are continuing to learn each day what chemistry is all about, and we ourselves are surprised al­most daily at the new discoveries in the fundamentals of the science and the practical applications which add so much to human comforts, safety, and health. 
No one chemist claims to know much of this vast science and no one chemist even claims to know all about his own specialized field of this 
N.D. DOCTORS TO MEET IN K.C. 
A proposal that all Notre Dame alumni and former students who are members of the medical pro­fession have a gathering of their own in Kansas City, Missouri, next May at the time of the national meeting of the American Medical Association has been made by Dr. 
D. M. Nigro, '14, of Kansas City. 
Dr. Nigro suggests a buffet sup­per on the evening of May 12 on the roof of the Hotel Kansas Citian. (The convention will be from May 11 to 15.) And he will be glad to handle local arrange­ments. 
Fatuj-e issues of the ALUMNUS will contain more information as to the plan. Meanwhile, encour­aged by the success of a similar plan at the American Legion con­vention in St. Louis last Fall, those 
N.D. men who are planning, either definitely or tentatively, to attend the convention are asked to com­municate with Doctor Nigro, Ar­gyle Building, Kansas City. 
science. The Avierican Chemical Soc­iety Abstracts, a journal devoted to the record and brief outlining of all the articles published the world over on the new discoveries in chemistry, reviews bi-weekly over 2,000 journals in which such new discoveries are re­ported. For the sake of the conven­ience of its readers this journal di­vides the science of chemistry into 30 separate fields. Incidentally, it costs the American Chemical Society about $150,000 a year to publish this journal. 
In the short time available I shall attempt to call your attention to a few points about the nature of the science of chemistry, in regard to which the general public is almost wholly wrong, and which are the cause of much misunderstanding. 
The methods (that is, techniques) and the language of the chemist are highly specialized even when he works \vith or discusses things of everyday experience. Take for example such a simple operation as drying something. While the chemical industries use hot, dry air and other physical means, to dry materials as is done in daily life, the chemist also uses chemical means both in the laboratory and in the plant to accomplish such an objective. I am sure that most non-chemists, highly intelligent people including college graduates, would be surprised if they walked into a laboratory and observed a chemist bubbling a gas through a liquid, and upon inquiring about the experiment, they would be told that the gas was oxygen or air which was moist, and that the liquid he was using to dry it was sulphuric acid! In the ordinary experience in life we expect things to get wet if they are placed in a liquid! Yet the chemist in this instance would be telling you the unadulterated truth. H„S04 combines chemically with the water vapor, thus removing it from the oxygen or the air which is not affected by the HgSOj. Therefore, the right kind of a wet.substance can and does dry something that is wet. 
Chemistry deals precisely with this^­sort of—let us say, intangible thing. Primarily the science deals with fun­damental changes in matter, which are frequently not noticeable to our 
(Continued on PaEe 137) 

The Notre Dame Alumnus February, 1936 
By DIREaOR OF JOSEPH S. PETRITZ, '32 ATHLETIC PUBLICliy 


ATHLETICS 
BASKETBALL 
Having passed the turn with 12 vic­tories, one defeat, and one tie. Coach George Keogan's basketball players enter the second half of their 25-game schedule with considerable reason for pleasant anticipation. 
The Irish of 1935-36 deiinitely found themselves in their game with Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh when they came from behind' to win, 43 to 35. They went on from there to beat Mar­quette 37-22, after holding a slim 17 to 16 margin just after the opening of the final period. They came from behind to defeat Pennsylvania, 37 to 27, and Syracuse, 46 to 43. 
The rest of the card is without a breather, and no doubt someone will catch the boys on an off-night and upset them, but it will be an upset and nothing less when they lose again. The only exception to this statement might be the game with New York U. on St. Valentine's Day at Madison Square Garden. N. Y. U. has won 19 straight games, and 27 out of the last 
28. The playing conditions on the Gaarden floor are anything but favor­able to a team not familiar with them, and the Violets must enter that game and every other game the favorite un­til someone shows that the New York team is vulnerable. The Garden floor, which for some unknown reason is several feet shorter and narrower than the regulation size, and the transparent backboards are two maj­or handicaps to visiting teams. 
Last month's story took us through the first nine games. Notre Dame won the first seven without a great deal of difficulty. Against Purdue the Irish scored 40 opints, enough to ^vin most games, but Purdue was dropping them in from all points, and scored 54 points to make the,contest one of the highest scoring college aflairs of the year. Then came New Year's Eve and the 20 to 20 tie -n-ith Northwest-em. Through a scorekeeper's error, the teams left the floor under the im­pression that the Wildcats had won 20 to 19. By the time 10 newspaper­men had convinced everyone con­cerned that the two student score­keepers had missed the phantom free throw made by Ray Meyer, sopho­more forward for the Irish late in 
the game, the teams were dressed and the crowd of 5,800 fans had filed out of Patten gym. So there was nothing to do but to put the game into the record books as a tie. 

Many forgot that Northwestern is always hard to beat on its own floor and figured that the Irish had slumped, after winning, 40 to 29, on the home floor early in December. Coach George Keogan heard the rum­blings of the downtown coaches asso­ciation with their overtones "Use the Seniors." So John Moir, Ray Meyer, Paul Nowak, Tommy Wukovits, and Tom Jordan were benched and the seniors took the floor against Minne­sota with Co-Capt. Johnny Ford and John Hopkins at forwards, Co-Capt. Mart}' Peters at center; George Ire­land and Frank Wade, guards. And for the first time in more than 12 years at Notre Dame, Coach Keogan saw his team fail to score a single field goal during an entire half. Min­nesota, which has risen on three occa­sions this season to beat or scare to death supposedly far superior teams, held an 11 to 6 lead. The Sophomores entered the game the second half and raced to a 29 to 27 victory. 
The Seniors were given another chance against Pittsburgh, but it was the Sophomores who again came to the rescue in the 43 to 35 victory. 
The victory over Pittsburgh marked Notre Dame's first in five attempts the last two seasons and this season. It also marked definitely the laying of the Pitt jinx which hounded Notre Dame athletic teams for two full seasons and parts of a third. The 
football team won after losing three games in a row to Pitt. The track team won after losing one dual meet and the Central Intercollegiate con­ference indoor championship to the Panthers. The golf team won after one defeat by Pitt. The Cross-country squad won last Fall after one defeat by the Panthers. Now the basketball team has made it a clean sweep, start­ing with the track victory of last spring. The return game will be played at Notre Dame Feb. 22. 
Keogan has now decided on a com­bination lineup. Paul Nowak, 6 foot 6 inch sophomore South Bend center, who occupies two berths on all trips. 
starts at center in place of Peters, who has had the devil's own time finding himself this winter after a great football season. Co-Capt. John­ny Ford alternates at one forward with Sophomore Ray Meyer, out of the games with Penn and Syracuse with a leg injury. John Moir handles 
the other forward, at times alternat­ing with Hopkins, and at still other times taking over the jumping duties at center, as was the case when Now­ak played only a few minutes on the Penn-Syracuse invasion because of a hea\'y cold. Ireland and Wade start at the guards, while the hard-driving, spirited, eagle-eyed Wukovits usually gets in for a few minutes and makes from four to eight points with his sleeper shots. 
This combination of combinations fared well against Penn and Syra­cuse, giving the Irish their eighth straight lictory over the former team, chalking up victory number 200 for Keogan's 12 and one-half seasons at Notre Dame, and bringing the Irish a win in the 13th game of their 25­game schedule. At Syracuse, Notre Dame gave the Orangemen their sec­ond defeat of the season and the first since 1931-32 on their home floor. Both of these victories were scored ^rithout the ser\'ices of Meyer, and %\'ith less than 15 monutes of play on the part of Nowak, who is usually good for six or eight points in any game. 
This bears out this department's contention of some time ago that Keogan's fine spread of material would pull his team through under almost any conditions. While we are not oblivious to the possibilities of the next four home opponents — Butler, St. Benedict's, Illinois and Kentucky, Southern conference champions—up­setting the Irish, our earnest hope is that Keogan may have his team at full strength for the New York game. For the information of Eastern alum­ni, several of whom have written to the University for tickets to this game, Garden officials declined to send any and they are obtainable only through the Garden offices. 
Following is the record to date: 

Notre Dame, 62; Albion. 26. 
Notre D.-unc. 45; St M.irj''s 22. 
Notre Dame, Go; Kninmnzoo. 1". 
Noire Dame. 71: St. Joseph. 22. 
Notre Dame. 33; James Milikcn, 30. 
Notre Dame. 3Ti; W'ashinjrton University, 27. 
Notre Dame. 40: Northwestern, 29. 
Notre Dame, 40; Purdue. 54. 
Notre Dame, 20; Northw., 20. (no overtime) 
Notre Dame, 29; Alinnesota, 27. 
Notre Dame. 43 : PittshurRh. 35, 
Notre Dame, 37; Marquette, 22. 
Notre Dame, 37: Pennsylvania, 27, 
Notre Dame. 4B: Syracuse, 43.. 
Notre Dame, 35 : Butler, 27.. 
(Butler score late addition) 

The rest of the schedule: 
Feb. 1—St. Benedict's at Notre Dame. 
Feb. 5—Illinois nt Notre Dame. 
Feb. 10—Kentucky at Notre Dame. 
Feb. 14—New York University nt New York. 
Feb. 22—PittshurRh at Notre Dame. 
Feb. 25—Minnesota at Notre Dame. 
Feb. 29—Butler at Indianapolis. 
Mar, 4—Ohio State at Notre Dame, 
Mar, 7—Marquette at Milwaukee. 
Mar. 10—Detroit at Detroit. 
FENCING 
Notre Dame's fencing team, unde­feated last season and unofficial Mid­dle AVestern champions, will swing in­to its 1936 schedule against Purdue at Lafayette on Jan. 25. 
Coach Pedro de Landero has ar­ranged the most rigorous schedule his team has faced in the three years of the sport at Notre Dame. While losses by graduation were heavy, he has back his two sons, Carlos and Telmo, and Kevin Kehoe, regulars on last year's undefeated squad. Carlos and Kehoe are co-captains. 
PEDRO DB LANDERO 
Fencing Coach 

The lineup for the Purdue match will contain: Co-Capt. Carlos de Lan­dero, sabre and epee; Telmo de Lan­dero, foil and epee; Co-Capt. Kehoe, foil and sabre; McAuliffe, epee; and Seco, foil. The schedule follows: 
Jan. 25—Purdue at Lafayette. 
Feb. S—Micbi;ran State at East Lansinj?. 
Feb. 14 Ohio State at Notre Dame. 
Feb. 15—Chicago at Notre Dame. 
Feb. 29-—Purdue at Notre Dame. 
JIar. 6—Northwestern at Notre Dame. 
Mar. 14—Cincinnati at Notre Dame. 
Mar. 21—Michigan State at Notre Dame. 
Mar. 2S—Washinston University at St. Louis. 
Mar. 30—to April 4—Freshman tournament. 
TRACK 
Winning eight out of nine dual meets last season didn't help Coach forts to draw up a track schedule for 1936, but he has successfully com­pleted the first half of it, and is ar­ranging a fine outdoor schedule, one which will bring Jesse Owens and his Ohio State team to the campus in a triangular meet with Michigan State and Notre Dame. The high spot of the indoor season is the Central In­tercollegiate conference meet to be held at Notre Dame. The same meet outdoors, the N. C. A. A. meet, the State meet, and for some of the more 
GEORGE ME,\GIIEK 
Track Captain 

John P. Nicholson greatly in his ef­
talented performers, the Olympic 
trials, will mark the high points in in­
terest outdoor. 
The opening meet indoor with Chi­cago at Chicago Feb. 7, will be inter­esting for at least one major reason. Don Elser of Notre Dame will meet Jay Berwanger of the Maroons in several events. Both are hard at work preparing for the Olympic decathlon. Possibly a dual meet between the two will be arranged later. 
The graduation of Capt. Vincent Murphy leaves the Irish weak in the high jump this season, but the other events are well taken care of, par­ticularly with Elser capable of scor­ing in almost all of his six or eight events in most dual meets. Jack Ed­wards will be missed in the pole vault, but all the other hea\-y point winners from 1935 are back. 
Capt. George Meagher is a cinch in the broad jump in all dual meets as well as the bigger meets except those in which Jesse Owens competes. Elser who led scoring last year with 127 points, will take care of the shot put and the low hurdles, getting points probably in the high jump, broad jump, dashes, discus, javelin, and, with more practice, in the high hur­dles and pole vault. He has cleared 21 feet in the broad jump, 5 feet 8 inches in the high jump, and 9 feet 6 inches 
DON ELSER .-1 Duel with Benvanger? 

in the pole vault after a month's work. Mike Layden has been a con­sistently fine performer for two seas­ons in the hurdles, and will undoubt­edly score many pomts for the Irish once the knee injury received in foot­ball heals completely. 
Chuck Bernard, Salvador Ducasa, Jim Parsons, Paul Enbly, McGrath, and Jim Shiels are among the promis­ing returning middle distance men. Eddie Boyle, Jack Frawley, Jordan, and Moore are returning sprinters. Layden, and Meagher, and Elser vnll bear the brunt in the hurdles, with Carl Link graduated. Link took sev­eral places last season, wiiming large­ly on flawless form, although he lacked natural speed. Over the long distances, Notre Dame will be well set with Leo McFarlane, Gott, McKenna, Hennessey, and John Francis, promis­ing sophomore candidate, all avail­able. The weight events will be handled pretty much by Elser, John Michuta, and John Levicki, all foot­ballers. Boots McCarthy, also a foot­ball man, is a steadily improving pole vaulter. 
Feb. 7—Chicago there. Feb. 13—Marquette at Notre Dame. Feb. 28—Northwestern at Notre Dame. Feb. 2a_St. Louis Relays. Mar. 7—Illinois at Notre Dame. Mar. 13) Central Intercollegiate conference at 
and 14j Notre Dame. ^lar. 21—Armour relaj-s St Chicago and Butler relays at Indianapolis. 
Captain-elect Bill Smith of the 1936 football team is improving stead­ily after an operation at Mayo Broth­ers Clinic, Rochester, Minn., for the removal of kidney stones. He will be available for football next Fall unless complications develop. He was unable to play at all in 1935 as a result of an operation in August, but he was elected captain by his adimiring mates at the close of the season. 
PHYSICAL EDUCATION 
(Continued from Page 126) 

SO far as it affects the development of character is dependent on leader­ship. True the old statement that "character is caught and not taught" is almost a truism. This means that the teaching leadei-ship which is put in charge of this program must he one that has been carefully selected and trained.^ The teacher must be one whose character is such that the things "caught" from him by his stu­dents will be of high ethical nature and contiibute to the development of a good character. He must be one whose training has included those ac­tivities valuable for leisure. He must be one sufficiently well trained in the basic sciences so that he can under­stand the background of the problems in health development. 
What, you may ask, of the cultural contribution of such a thing as physi­cal education? Here again we come in contact with a term culture 'irith regard to which we have a great di­versity of opinion. We need not bother about that, but as in the other cases, take an angle upon which there is considerable agreement. That is, that one's culture is represented by liis stock of appreciations. If a coui-se in physical education causes a man to secure more joy from a dance re­cital or a vaudeville act, from read­ing a sport page or watching a track meet, it has enriched his life. 
One phase of physical education rivals the weather as a topic of gen­eral discussion. That is, of course, competitive athletics. Great changes in attitude toward athletics have taken place. Contrast the situation at Notre Dame yesterday when some 250 students participated in football games on a Sunday with the situation at Princeton in 1787, when the fac­ulty passed the following regulation, directed at what was probably the game of "Shinny." 
"It appearing that a play at present much practiced by the smaller boys among the students and by the gram­mar scholars with balls and sticks in the back commons of the college is in itself low and unbecoming gentle­man students, and in-as-much it is an exercise attended with gi-eat danger to the health by sudden alternate heats and cold and it tends by acci­dents almost unavoidable in that play to disfiguring and maiming those who are engaged in it for whose health and safety as well as improvement in study as far as depends on exertion we are accountable to their parents and liable to be severely blamed for them, and in-as-much as there are many amusements both honorable and more useful in which they are indulged, therefor, the faculty think it incumbent on them to prohibit both the students and grammar scholars from using the play aforesaid." 
But the "play aforesaid" and its brethren soon proved stronger than faculty regulations. Gradually as­suming a more important place in school and college since the day they were first tolerated as a necessary evil, they are at present looked on, in educational philosophy if not yet in actual practice, as an important part of the program in physical education. They become educational when they are conducted with the welfare of the indiWdual as the guiding point rather than the entertainment of the towns­people, the advertising of a school, or the procuring of championships as the goal. 
-Athletics can easily be made to contribute to the three main objec­tives we have offered for physical ed­ucation: namely health, character, and training for leisure. Whether or not they do contribute to these ends is going to depend on those in charge of their administration. 
-Athletics may develop health; but 
improper medical supervision, un­
equal competition, insufficient protec­
tive equipment, and playing when 
fatigued may destroy it. 
.A.thletics may serve to sti-engthen 
character if the attitudes, ideals, 
standards, which result are desirable 
ones. It may serve to weaken it if 
the player acquires the attitude that 
society owes liim a livelihood, or that 
rules and societies laws, are made to 
be evaded. 
There is probably no more pitiable figure than the former school and col­lege star, unwilling to drop from his own pedestal in the world of sport to join beginners in the only sports left open to his future. His usual end is to go on through life accumulating fat and singing the praises of the athletes of his school years. 
This interpretation of physical ed­ucation and its place in the scheme of education is an orthodox one at this time. We are sometimes asked if it is in line with the Catholic phi­losophy of education. The best an­swer might lie in quotations, and I shall restrict myself to one commonly used text: Shield's "Philosophy of Education"—as the source. 
On the necessity for provision for physical education he says: 
"The preservation of the child's health and the development of his physical organism must be provided for by the educative agencies which undertake to control his conduct and shape his destiny, since his instinctive equipment is wholly inadequate to the attainment of those ends under condi­tions prevailing in civilized life." 
That this guidance of the child should continue and that it serves in the development of character we find the statement: 
"The work begun in the play of childhood should be completed by the games and athletic sports which find legitimate place in the later portion 
of the educative process not only as 
means of perfecting physical develop­
ment but as a valuable means of 
forming character and developing 
necessary social qualities." 
He recognizes the health objective 
we named as one of the primary im­
portance in education in saying: 
"The first task which the school is 
called upon to perform is to preserve 
the child's health, and to secure his 
normal physical development while 
adjusting his conduct to the standards 
of the civilization of the day." 
.^gain on the health objective in 
discussing hygiene habits, he says: 
"It is the function of authority to 
guide the child in the formation of 
these habits no less than in the for­
mation of habits that pei-tain to his 
higher nature." 
In his discussion of the school's 
place in the problem of leisure the 
opinion that: 
"The school may be excused for 
slow progress in its attempt to train 
for economic efficiency, but in educat­
ing for the proper use of leisure the 
case is othenvise." 
To some of you this xiew of physi­cal education may be somewhat dif­ferent from the one you have held in the past. I wonder in how many cases your view has been shaped by some of those factors which we recognize as being behind many of the prej­udices of today against us? Maybe you still identify physical education with the drill master type of school room gymnastics when, as a child, you stood in the aisle and stretched your arms in response to the teacher's counts, a type of activity whose de­fense in great part lay in the disci­plining idea of faculty psychology. Or the same teacher may have put you into meaningless positions on the parallel bars rather than offering you challenging stunts. Maybe your con­nection with physical education has been associations with the time servers of only a few years ago who wished to use it as a stepping stone to emdicine. Maybe you identi­fy it with the Black Sox scandal, or physical culture magazine muscle men and shapely women. Maybe you connect it with diet faddists, nudist cults or the posing type of dancers we call scarf wavers and balloon tossers. 
In the past conflicting conceptions of the nature of physical education in consequence of such things as these have made cooperation between physical educators and other teachers difficult. With an increasing under­standing of the field this difficulty is rapidly disappearing. 
We do not propose.physical educa­tion as the panacea for the world's ills, but if it helps make for greater happiness, greater health, and greater social worthwhileness, it is deserving of its place as a major educational agency. 


NATURE OF CHEMISTRV 
(Continued from Pasc 133) 

senses, and even if we assist our senses with such powerful aids as the microscope, the changes which occur are often different, from what they seem, and it takes the trained chemist to interpret them. Like iron, sodium is a metal, but its properties are very different. If a piece of sodium comes in contact with water, things begin to happen. Heat develops and a gas is given off, which may ignite and cause an explosion. Likewise, everyone knows about the chlorine gas, used during the war, with terrible effect to poison armies. Yet, when sodium and chlorine are chemically combined, they form the harmless and useful substance which the chemist calls so­dium chloride, and which you all know as common table salt. The sodium matter and the chlorine matter are certainly still there; in fact the chem­ist makes sodium and chlorine from salt. 
Man can neither create nor destroy matter, but the changes which the chemist brings about, in making salt from sodium and chlorine, are e-vactly what the chemist calls a fundamental change in matter. Such changes are entirely different, for example, from the transformations of water into ice or steam, since ice and steam are still inherently the same kind of matter. 
The chemist in bringing about such fundamental changes in matter, as just described, can thus build up or break down matter of all kinds. He calls these procedures synthesizing and analyzing substances. By syn­thesis he builds up an endless number of new substances, of great value to man, which nature does not provide, and by analysis he finds out the com­position of valuable natural products, and then proceeds to make them cheaper and often of better quality than the natural ones. 
The chemist then deals with the composition of matter and studies the changes which matter undergoes. These studies lead him far afield into the very deepest secrets of nature, and the results are the new knowledge referred to, so hastily at the begin­ning of this lecture. 
Purely for practical reasons and for the benefit of both the chemist and the public I shall discuss briefly what the chemist means by the very ordin­ary word, "formula." While the for­mulas of such ordinary chemical prod­ucts as paints, lacquers, and patent medicines indicate about the same thing as the recipe, referred to the materials out of which candy, cake, or mayonnaise are made, the chemist generally means something entirely different when he uses the term, for­mula. From a chemist's point of view, such a mixture of substances as a paint has no formula. Each individual substance in such a mixture of sub­stances, however, does have a for­mula, and this formula expresses its exact chemical composition, which cannot vary, no matter from where this substance has been obtained, or how it may have been made. In other words the chemist uses a formula to express the exact composition of pure substances which he calls compounds, and whose nature and makeup he does not control. 
The number of atoms or molecules of one kind of substance, which may unite with another kind of substance, is controlled by the forces of nature 
PROP. FROXING 
What is a formula? 

—and we all know nature's laws are immutable. 
To speak then of the formula for a substance like synthetic rubber, and saying, that it is made from salt, coal, and limestone, is as correct as speak­ing of the formula for milk, and say­ing that milk is made from air, water, and soil—and the steps involved in making synthetic rubber from salt, coal, and limestone, are about as com­plicated as nature's procedure in mak­ing milk from the air, water and soil. 
If people generally understood ex­actly what the chemist means by the term formula, chemists would not be embarrassed so often by requests to analyze this, that and the other thing for a modest fee of a few dollars, with the remark, "Oh, I just want the formula of this thing; don't you think one of your students would like to do this for practice?" There is still much to be said about this subject, but my time is about up. Other phases of this interesting science of chemistry may be discussed in subsequent lec­tures, by members of the staff of the Department of Chemistry of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. 
If there are any young people lis­tening to this discussion who may be interested in chemistry, they may rest assured that they will find it a most fascinating subject for a lifetime of effort, but they should also realize that this science exacts from its de­votees diligent and sustained efforts not only during the student days but later in professional life. 
Question: Professor Froning — in speaking of the structure of the atom, you made mention of the extremely minute particles of which the atom is 
composed. We read a lot about models 
ot these atoms. Could you tell us a 
little more about these models? 
Ansiver: The models of atoms so 
often depicted are in reality not taken 
literally by the scientist. They bear 
about the same relation to the actual 
structure of atoms as blue prints do 
to the bridges or buildings which they 
represent. But they are therefore not 
less valuable. The largest buildings, 
bridges and other structures are still 
erected from blue prints. 
Question: What about the possi­bility of the release of atomic energies about which we hear so much these days? 
.'Utstver: The greatest living scien­tists today do not believe that such forces will be available on a large scale; that is, they do not believe that such forces will ever be used gener­ally, as steam and electricity are now-being used. 

FLVNN IS CHOSEN 

Professor Frank T. Fljmn of the division of social case work in the Department of Sociology, has been chosen as one of 12 members of an advisoiy committee for the national youth administration in Indiana. Also active in boy scout work in South Bend, along with Professor Ray Hoyer, head of the Department of Boy Guidance, Professor Fljmn is conducting a course in "Principles of Scoutmastership" for advanced local scout leaders. 

RENDERING UNTO CESARE 
The high school laurels of South Bend are being heaped in large quan­tities on the modest brow of Cesare Janesheski, '30, who, with his £t. Hedwige High School football team, has for the first time in history taken the city football championship away from Central Senior High School. 
Outstanding in the list of St. Hed­wige accomplishments was its defeat of the Riley High School team which had previously held Central to a scoreless tie. Such an accomplishment is all the more noteworthy when it is realized that St. Hedwige's is a school of but 160 students, the majority of them girls. Cesare is an instructor in the school, but he serves without remuneration in his athletic capacity. He was formerly an assistant in the Physical Education Department at Notre Dame. 
The Michigan Club of Buffalo, N.Y. has just presented the TJ. of Michigan with 5516.81. As the first payment on a $5,000 fimd, the result of a "ten­year program" instituted by the Michigan Alumni Association, the fund will be used for special lecturers in the Michigan School of Business Administration. 
See what a Club objective can at­tain? 


ALUMNI CLUBS 
OFFICERS OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
1935-193 6 

Honorary President Albert F. Zahm, '83 Director Hugh A. O'Donnell, '94 President Bernard J. VoU, '17 Director Fred L. Steers, '11 First Vice-President Albert J. Galen, '96 Director. . James E. Deery, '10 Second Vice-President George N. Shuster, '15 Director Don P. O'Keefe, '03 Secretary-Treasurer James E. Armstrong, '25 Director (ex-officio) Timothy P. Galvin, '16 Assistant Secretarj' William E. Dooley, '26 Director (one^year) Thomas G.-Proctor, '35 

GOVERNORS 

District 1—John \V. Schindler, '09, Mishawaka, Ind. District 22—^Hugh M. Macevney, '25, Memphis, Tenn. District 2—James A. Ronan,'2G, Chicairo, 111. District 13—Lawrence Hennessey, '27, Vicksburg, Miss. District 3—Henry F. Bamhart, '23. Lima, Ohio District 14—William Grady, '17, Dallas, Texas District 4—^Henry Lauerman, '23, Menominee, Mich. District 15—John M. Dugan, '27, Kansas City, Mo. District 5—John T. Hiccins, '23, Detroit, Mich. District IG—Sher^Tood Dixon. "20. Dixon, III. District 6—Aticust G. Desch, '23, Philadelphia, Pa. District 17—George A. McGee, "01, Minot, No. Dakota District 7—Ednaxd A. Fallon, '26, New York City District 18—Robert Fox, '01, Denver, Colo. District 8—Gerard Ashe, '22, Rochester, N. Y. District 19—Thomas H. Heam, '15, Los Angeles, Calit. 
District 9—John Bohinson, '2S, Waterbury, Conn. District 20—E. P. Cirville, '09, Reno, Nerada. District 10—Frank A. Reese, '25, Raleigh. North Carolina District 21—Walter M. Daly. '04. Portland, Ore. District 11—Matthew O'Brien. '31, Tampa, Fla. District 22 (Foreign)—Julius Arce, '99, Buenos Aires, Argentine, 9.A. 
Ohio State games of last Fall, and 

AKRON mal heart-action after the fireworks
accompanied them with his best Gra­

Joseph H. Kraker. '29. 1776-24th St.. Cuy­of Nov. 2 last, the alumni in that ter­ahoga Falls, Ohio, President. Qaude H. 
ham McNamee newsreel comment. Homing, '29, 183 N. Highland Ave., Professor BILL DOWNEY, president 
ritory will also resume their weekly .-^kron, Secretar\'. luncheons early in February. Eay 
of the club, got up long enough to 

4= adds that practically every one in 
compliment GENE O'TOOLE on his 
ARIZONA Columbus who saw the Ohio State-

James D. Barrj*. '97. Consolidated Bank gi-and job of toastmastering the occa­Bldg.. "Tucson. President. Steven Rcbeil. sion. 
N.D. thriller is planning to come to '25, 620 N. Sixth St.. Tucson. Secrctarj-. Notre Dame next Fall for the renew­
JOHNNY JAUCH, chairman of the al of the hostilities. (There can, in dance which the club arranged for the best Aesop manner, be only one ARKANSAS 
Rev. Goo. F. X. Slrassner, '14. Hope. Ark.. January 24 in the Four Flags Hotel, moral: order your tickets early. All President. Burt L. Roberts. 1325 Lincoln 
Niles, explained his plans and pro­indications are that the game will be 
Ave., Little Rock, Ark., Sicretary. 

cedure and asked for the best-opera­a definite sell-out well in advance of tion of the club members. the opening whistle.) 
BENGAL R t Rev. Timothy Cniwle.v. C.S.C.. '02, Ray, wth DON HAMILTON and Dacca, Bengal, India, President. Rev. J. 
J. Hennessey, C.S.C, '02. Dacca, Bengal. BOSTON JACK CANNON, attended the foot­
Jarlath (Jack) Sl-itterj-. '21. 226 L. St.. 

India. Secretary. ball coaches meeting in New York 
So. Boston. Mass.. President. .Tames Ska­han. '31, 5 Grove St.. Belmont. Mass., Sec­City in late December and saw there rctarj*. 
many of the Notre Dame alumni who BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) are in the coaching profession. 
Wm. H. Don-ney, '28. 1615 Oak St.. Niles. 
BUFFALO 
Mich., President. Malcolm K. Hatticid, 
John G. Byrne. '23. 149 Monroe Dr.. Wil­
'29, 2305 Niles Ave., St. Joseph, Mich.. 
liams\*ille, N. Y., President. Robert Measer, 

Secretary. CHICAGO 
'34, The Amherst Bee Co.. Main & Rock 

Sts., Williamsvillc, N.Y.. Secretary. ,Tohn W. Scallan. '25, 79 E. Adams St., 
The Major Bowes of the campus, 

President. Al C. Slcpan. '31. 365 E. Illi­FATHER GENE BUEKE, was the nois St.. Secretary, 
principal speaker at the dinner 
CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-I!l.) 
which the Berrien County Club had 
William L. Travis. '27. 803 Lloyd Bldg.. 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN 

in Berrien Springs on Friday even­Hammond, Ind.. President, Fred .T. Sol-
Dr. E. J. Hermes. '16, 1910 Oakland St., 
man. Jr.. '28, 5752 Erie .\ve.. Hammond, 


ing, January 10. Tales of the Lansing, President. J. Harvey Gauthier, 
Ind.. Secretary. 
•30, Bark River, Michigan, Secretary. 

"Major's" rectorship in Sorin Hall— and one in particular about SLIP * MADIGAN'S South Bend coui-tship CAPITOL DISTRICT (New York) CINCINNATI 
Clare L. Touhey, '26, 601-02 National Sav­Harry V. Crumley, '03, 2655 S. Harrison 
and resultant difficulties with the 

ings Bank Bldg., Albany. N. Y., President. Ave.. West\voo<i Branch, President. Frank Burke brothers—kept the large Edward J. Eckert, '33. 5 Lawnridge Ave, H. Sweeney, ex, '17, Kemper Lane Hotel, Albany, N. Y.. Sccretarj'. 
audience laughingly engrossed. Secretary. I am pleased to advise that our 
Others present from the campus 
annual election and installation of were Professors FARRELL, BUCK­CENTRAL OHIO officers of the Notre Dame club of 


LEY, ENGELS and CAMPBELL and Raymond .T. Eichcnlaub, '15, Hester Real­
ty Bldg.. Columbus. President. Greater Cincinnati took place at our Alumnor DOOLEY, each of whom monthly meeting, January 7, at the spoke briefly, and Coach-Operator RAY EICHENLAUB, president of Lane Hotel. The following is BILL CEENEY, who showed the the Central Ohio Club, reports that, Kemper •up for the ensuing year: motion pictures of the Army and the with the gradual resumption of nor­the line 
President, HARRY V. CRUMLEY \ice-president, JOE S. JVIORRISSEY secretary, FRANK SWEENEY treasurer, ROBERT VAN LAHR trustees (three-year term), ALBERT 
D. CASTELLINI; (unexpired teiTOs), CLARENCE BRINK; LEO V. DU­BOIS. 
ALBERT D. C.A.STELLINI, Retiring President. 

During the holidays, a Christmas party was given for the undergradu­ates living in Greater Cincinnati. An enjoyable afternoon was had, the af­fair being in the hands of HOGAN MORRISSEY, DONALD DIXON and ROBERT HUGHES. 
The annual Campus Club dance was held at the Hotel Sinton-St. Nicholas on the evening of Dec. 27, the chair­man being BERT SCHLOMER. All in attendance reported a very wonder­ful time, and the local organization, at their meeting on Jan. 7, pledged to back the campus club 100 percent in its ne.xt local venture. 
BILL CASTELLINL '22, of Phila­delphia was the guest of his brother, -ALBERT CASTELLINI, during the holiday season. 
AVe regret the loss of RAY DOWNS, former merchandise man­ager of the McAlpin Company, who has transferred his activities to the East. Ray, from last reports, was located in Rochester, New York. 
Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE ZEPF announce the birth of a daughter, Diane, who arrived on Thanksgiving day. Larry, class of '33, is one of the mainstays of the Cincinnati branch of the Phoenix Insurance Company. 
CLEM CROWE, athletic director of Xavier University, was in attend­ance at the coaches meeting in New York City during holiday week. While at the meeting Clem finished out his football schedule for next year, and from reports it is a pretty tough one. 
Commodore ED McHUGH spent a few days in Cincinnati during the early part of December. Ed, from the latest reports, has transferred his business interests ot the Pittsburgh district. 
FRANK SWEENEY, Secretary 

CLEVELAND 
Clayton Lcroux, *27, 335G Daleford Road. 
Cleveland Ht^ts., Ohio. President. Otis 
Winchester, '29, 29CS Jleadowbrook Blvd., 
Cleveland lists.. Ohio, Secretary. 

Our Christmas dance was a success 
without a doubt — biggest crowd we 
have ever had—so big, in fact, that 
many couples were turned awav. All 
thanks to CLETE SCHNEIDER and 
his committee who capably handled -everything. 
JOE THOMPSON, our chairman of the Board of Governors, has just been elected first vice-president of the National City Bank. 
JOHN FLYNN, the famous reacher upper, has turned erstwhile G-man, having recently been appointed assist­ant safety director of the city of Cleveland. Elliott Ness, his boss is a former government investigator and the two of them are doing a good job around this town. 
We are making plans for our an­nual retreat to be held the week-end of Feb. 28 at St. Stanislaus Novitiate. TOM BYRNE and MATT TRU­DELLE are arranging matters for this. 
JACK DUFFY was home for the holidays from New York. 
JOE SWEENY just announced his engagement to Mildred Greene. JOHN 
P. BUTLER, one of our former presi­dents, was married recently at the Log Chapel. 
Also, home for the holidays were BERNIE McGARRY, TOM LEON­ARD and a few more I didn't get to see. 
ED CALDWELL is GEORGE KO­ZAK'S able assistant. He has been putting out a lot of scandal about his boss, but I'm afraid to send it to you because of libel. 
OTIS S. WINCHESTER, Sec. 

CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
Thomas E. Fersuson, '26, 7 Windsor St., Thompsonville, Conn.. President. Francis 
D. Ahem. '29, I Webster St., Hartford. Conn., Secretary. 
DALLAS James P. Sivift, '24. 1202 Soulhn-estcm Life Bid?., Dallas, President. Francis A. McCullouBh, '30. 917 First National Bank BIdff., Dallas, Secretary. 
DAYTON Amos Gay, '15, Union Trust Bids., Day-tan, President. Andrew A. Aman, Jr., '30, 210 LexinKton Ave., Dayton. Secretary. 
DENVER Robert Dick, '29. 930 Grant St.. President Haro* Lawrence, '29, 1951 Lawrence St., 
Secretary. 
DETROIT Joseph J. Norton, '21, 325 Merton Road, President: Edward R. McSIahon, ct. '30, 2291 LaMotte Ave., Sccret.-iry. On Dec. 2G, the Notre Dame Club of Detroit held its annual holiday din­ner dance at Hotel Webster Hall, -^proximately 350 people danced to the music of Emerson Gill and his or­chestra in a ballroom gayly decorated in gold banners. The feeling was unanimous that this affair was one of the most successful held by the local club in recent years. 
JOE NORTON, president of the club, placed the general chairman­ship in the capable hands of GIL SCHAEFBR. Honorable mention goes to GEOEGE GUETTLER, who only headed the decorations committee, but was personally responsible for the sale of 70 tickets. An aggressive, hard working committee, under the leadership of Gil Schaefer, put the aiTair "over the top."'These men were as follows: LING WURZER, JACK HIGGINS, BUD STILLMAN, LOU CONROY, BOB POWELL, ED MORIARTY, JIM SULLIVAN, FRAN and RUSS BEAUPRE, LEE MOORMAN, president of the Detroit Club on the campus, JACK BREEN and ED MCMJVHON, treasurer and secretary respectively of the local club. 
On Monday, Jan. 6, JOE NORTON presided over the monthly dinner and business meeting of the club. In spite of the fact that the weatherman pro­vided us with one of the worst days of the current winter season, the at­tendance was excellent. Bud Shaver, sports editor of the Detroit Times, was guest speaker, and all members in attendance felt well repaid for the effort they made to be present. Evi­dently Bud was very much impressed ^vith the spirit of the organization, as he carried a full t\vo-coIumn story on the Notre Dame Club in Tuesday, Jan. 7 issue of the Detroit Times. 
Tentative plans were made to wel­come the varsity basketball team when they arrive in Detroit for their game with U. of D. on March 10. Final plans will be announced at the next meeting to be held Monday, Feb. 
3. Succeeding meetings will be held on the first Monday of each month, 
BILL McCULLOUGH. 

Here is one excerpt from the Shav­er column of which Bill McCuUough speaks above: 
"Thus the spirit which Knute Rock­ne implanted in the men of Notre Dame years ago comes to life years later, 
"Notre Dame's alumni always have been the least theatrical of our col­lege alumni. The whoopee about Notre Dame's football success always was made by those who had no closer con­nection with the Golden Dome of South Bend than the daily newspaper. The genuine sons of Notre Dame in­dulged a quiet satisfaction in Notre Dame's football triumphs and said nothing. 
"When Notre Dame encountered a season of reverses the outcry came not from Notre Dame alumni, but from its self-appointed fans. Notre Dame alumni took the defeats as the Notre Dame team did, without a squawk. Now that Notre Dame is shining bright in the football firma­ment again, Notre Dame men are just ' as reticent as they were patient dur­ing Notre Dame's misfortunes. 
"I rather like that. It speaks of strength and stability of character in all Notre Dame men, whether they lugged a football or merely sat on the sidelines. 
"It is curious that the school which has promoted the most football hys­teria is itself the least hysterical about its football team." 
DES MOINES James C. Shaw. '22, 307 Equitable BldK-. President F. M. Wonderlin. •29. 302 Hub-bell Bids., Secretary. 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA James D. Hayes, '17, 4G12 Moriran Drive, Chevy Chase, Sid., President. J. Thomas Carver, •32. 1210 Perrj- St.. N.E., Wash­ington, D.C., Secretary. 
EASTERN INDIANA Thomas A. Cannon, '33, 401 Wysor Bids.. Muncie. Ind.. President. Alvis E. Grander, ex. '31. 617 S. Jefferson SL, Hartford City. Ind., Secretarj-. 
* 

EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA Leo K. Mclntyre, ^28, Bethlehem, Presi­dent. Ernest L. Wilhelm, ^27, New Jer­sey Zinc Co., Research Dept.. Palmerton, Secretary*. 
ERIE, PENNSYIVANIA Richard D. Daley. •17, Erie Daily Times. President. Thomas Bar'oor. •21. 416 New­man St., Secretary. 
* 

FAIRFIELD COUNTY (Connecticut) James Murphy. '22. 611 Security BldK., Bridgeport, Conn., President. Joseph E. Russo, ^32, 166 Hough Ave., Bridgeport. Conn., Secretary. 
* 
BUFFALO CLUB NEWS 
(Misplaced as to Alphabetical Order) 

JOHN G. BYRNE, newly elected president of the Buffalo alumni group, sailed from New York City on Friday, Jan. 17, on board the Ward liner S. S. Yucatan for Havana, Cuba, and Mex­ico City. He was accompanied by Leon Lancaster, western New York representative of the Mexican consul who has a son attending the Univer­sity, and James Doyle. They expect to be gone about three weeks. 
WILLLA.M A. ME.A.SER, '35, was chairman of a dance that the Bachel­lor Arms Club of WiUiamsville held Feb. 1 at the Club Mayfair. 
BOB ME.A.SER was in Syracuse the week-end of Jan. 10 to attend a national advertising meeting of the Western New York Press association. 
CHARLES BR.A.GG, '35, of Roches­ter, is attending the University of Buffalo school of medicine. Since he's been in town, several of the boys have gotten together and showed him the sights. 
TOM KENNY has been in New York City for the past two weeks. FRANK GUSHING returned from a two weeks' vacation in Texas. JAY L. LEE, together with Mrs. Lee, was called to Albion, Mich., the 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
week of Jan. 13 by the death of Mrs. Lee's father. 
Jay, manager of the Buffalo branch of the Phoenix Mutual Insurance Co., will spend the week of Jan. 20 in Atlantic City, N. J., where he will attend a Phoenix sales convention. 
BOB MOORE has been enjoying a two weeks vacation. 
CARLOS FRANK expects to go to New York City soon for a two weeks' vacation. 
Sympathy is extended to Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD JENKINS of 70 Monroe drive, Williamsrille, in the loss of their infant daughter, Eileen Frances. The little one was born Fri­day, Dec. 20, and stayed only a few days, passing away Tuesday morning, Dec. 24, 1935. Interment was made in the Williamsville Cayuga street Rom­an Catholic cemetery on Thursday afternoon. 
Margaret Mary and Edward Wil­liam, Jr., a daughter and a son, sur­vive to comfort their parents. Mrs. Jenkins was before her marriage. Miss Margaret Shanahan. 
Mr. Jenkins is head of the English department at the Williamsville High school. 
BOB ME.4.SER. 
^c 

FORT WAYNE, INDIANA Donnelly P. McDonald. "12, Peoples Trust & Savings Co., President, Edward S. Sul­livan, '24, 12.T E. Suttenficld St. Secrctarj-. On Jan. 1, C. BYRON H.A.YES as­sumed the duties of prosecutor of Al­len County. His first official act was to appoint Fred Schoppman as one of his deputies] During the first week in January the Honorable JOHN W. EGGEMAN announced that his son, ROBERT, had been made a member of the law firm of Eggeman, Reed and Cleland. More honors have been conferred upon our worthy president, DON­NELLY McDON.A.LD, durmg the past month. He has been elected pres­ident of the Fort Wayne Clearing House for the ensuing year. FR-4.NK HOGAN addressed the members of the Brownson Study Club at one of its recent meetings. NORBERT SCHENKEL, PAUL SHRONTZ and HENRY HASLEY are very active in Knights of Colum­bus affairs. Henry is our district deputy. And now I have some very sad news to impart. TOM McKIERNAN in­formed me this morning that J. Rich­ard Dinnen, a former student and son of Dr. J.A.MES M. DINNEN, '96, died Jan. 19. Dick was a loyal member of our local unit and we \vill certainly miss him. EDDIE WELCH, who was married recently, is now living at 702 Archer Ave. BERNARD KEARNS has returned 
Febri ary. 1936 

to Fort Wayne and is now in business for himself. He is running a drug store at the corner of Calhoun and Rudisill Boulevard. For the past year he has been living in Huntington, Ind., where he operated a drug store for a local chain system. Bernard is mar­ried and resides at 206 South Semi­nole Circle. 
ED SULLIVAN, Secretary. 

Complimenting the eighteen young men from Fort Wayne attending the University, the Fort Wayne Notre Dame club entertained at a dinner party Monday night, December 23, in the Catholic Community center. 
The local alumni members total 104 and approximately one-half attended the dinner which was a prominent pre-Christmas social function. DON­NELLY P. McDON-A.LD, THOMAS 
A. McKIERNAN, PAUL SAGSTET­TER and EDWARD SULLIVAN formed the committee on arrange­ments. The dinner was followed by a smoker and card party. Attractive prizes were provided. 
The Fort Wayne students honored are: 
Paul DeWald, Edward Disser, Louis Fox, James Foohey, Robert Haley, Lester Hoch, Arthur Hoffman, Joseph Lill, John Logan, Francis O'Laughlin, Robert O'Brien, Richard O'Connor, James McArdle, Richard McArdle, Robert Lauer, Bernard Niezer, Ken­neth Sanborn, Paul Venderley. 
Many members of the alumni club attended the highly successful Christ­mas dance—it was a sell-out—which the Campus club had in the Cath­olic Community Center on Decem­ber 27. The patrons and patrones­ses for the function were Judge and Mrs. JOHN W. EGGEMAN, Mr. and Mrs. FRANK GILMA.RTIN, Mr. and Mrs. DONNELLY P. McDON-ALD and Mr. and Mrs. HARRY HOGAN. Jim Foohey was chairman of the affair. 
Ed's note: Having already approp­riated and set in type the Our Sunday Visitor stories about Fort Wayne-Notre Dame Christmas activities, we omitted Ed Sullivan's remarks on the same events. It ought to be noted here, though that STEPHEN B. FLEM­ING was the principal speaker at the student-alumni gathering and that PAUL SAGSTETTER was in charge of arrangements. 

GOGEBIC RANGE (Michigan) 
Robert O'Callaghan, ex. '16. Gogebic Na­
tional Bank, Ironwood. President Francis 
J. Vukovich, *35, Ridge St.. Ironwood, Mich., Secretary. 

The mother of ROBERT O'CAL­LAGHAN, our president, died in Nor­way, Michigan recently after a linger­ing illness. 
At least this time, I can offer you a little news. On Dec. 28 an informal hanquet was held at the Iron Inn. 
The following members were pres­ent: ROBERT O'CALLAGHAN, pres­ident; JOE GILL, vice-president; ED­WARD SIMONICH, FRANK LES­SELYONG, GEORGE NOLAN, TED NOLAN, ROBERT SULLIVAN, J. 
C. SULLIVAN, VICTOR LEMMER, FRANK VUKOVICH. 
Traditions of Notre Dame seemed to be the subject of conversation throughout the evening. However, it seems as if we were not able to Snd out what Badin Hall was called before 1924. 
On Feb. 12 or Feb. 14 the Gogebic Range Club will meet -with, the alumni of Ashland, Wis. After much delay we have been able to come to a defi­nite decision. The get-together will not be just for Notre Dame alumni, hut also for St. Mary's girls. When you request information for the fol­lowing issue of the ALUMNUS I will be able to tell you what took place. 
I will be in South Bend in about three weeks. I am leaving for Cleve­land, Ohio to attend a service school which -will be held betiveen Jan. 27 and Feb. 7. In order to pass my time properly I will have to get out my Dome and see if I have any friends in that fair town. 
FRANK VUKOVICH. 

GRAND RAPIDS 
George E. Ludwis, '25, 328 Glcnhaven Ave., N.W., President Raymond J. Bonini, '27, 607 Atwood, N,E., Secretary. 
GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN 
Harold L. Londo, '24. City Engineers' Of­fice. City Hall. President. Levi A. Gcniesse. 
•24. 510 Minahan Bldg.. Secretary. 
HAMILTON, OHIO 
M. O. Bums, '86. 338 S. Second St., Presi­dent Marc A. Fiehrer. '27, 701 Rcntschler Bldg., Secretary. 
On Monday night, December 30, the Notre Dame club of Hamilton gave a complimentary dinner to BOB WILKE at the Elks' Club in Hamilton. Bob is a Hamilton boy who, as everybody knows, was one of ELMER LAY­DEN'S leading players last Fall and 
•will be again next Fall. All the Notre Dame men turned out with the exception of one who was ill. At this meeting it was decided to organize a Notre Dame Boosters Club. This idea came from the many local friends of Notre Dame, and we expect to be more active in the future, and from time to time you may expect news from our club. 
Enclosed newspaper clipping cover­ing last Monday's affair. MARC FIEHRER. 
The clipping: 
The Notre Dame University club of 
Hamilton, at a dinner at the Elks' 
club, Monday night, honored tivo 
Bamilton students at the South Bend, Ind., institution, who have made names for themselves in athletics. 
Bob Wilke, junior, and Russ Nichols, freshman, both graduates of Hamilton Catholic High school, were the honored guests. 
Wilke is a student who has gone far in football at Notre Dame, earn­ing a place on the varsity eleven for the last two years and figuring prom­inently in many of Notre Dame's games in that period. Nichols, earn­ing a place on the regular freshman eleven, is expected to make the vai'­sity next year. 
M. 0. BURNS, Hamilton attorney, who, next June will mark the fiftieth anniversary of his graduation from Notre Dame, was toastmaster. He spoke of the ideals of Notre Dame and the accomplishments, scholastical­ly and athletically of his alma mater. He introduced a number of speakers including: Wilke, Nichols, Rev. L. L. Denning, Rev. Henry Gramman, B. Vincent Pater, John P. Rogers and Marc Fiehrer. 
AVilke's talk was of especial interest as he reviewed Notre Dame's football season and revealed a lot of the "inside" in big time college football. 
Officers of the Notre Dame club 
herre are: M. 0. BURNS, president; 
B. VINCENT PATER, vice-president; 
MARC FIEHRER, secretaiy; LEO BOETTINGER, treasurer. 
The following attended Rev. L. L. Denning, Russ Nichols, Bob Wilke, M. 
0. Bm-ns, Rev. Henry Gramman, Marc Fiehrer, Rev. John Oberlander, Fritz Fremgen, Harry Wilke, John P. Rogers, Dick Connelly, Leo Boettin­ger, Frank Bov, Paul Herrmann, B. Vincent, Arnold Krebs, Clem Pater, Boyce Fisher, Harry Grevey and Phil Irwin. 
HIAWATHALAND (Mich-Wis.) 
Norman Bartholomew, '13. 225 Cleveland Ave., Iron Mountain, Mich.. President Michael S. Corry. '27. 837 Terrace .\ve.. Marinette. Wis.. Sccretarj*. 
HOUSTON 
M. E. Walter. '14, 1702 Stuart .\ve.. Hous­ton, President Thomns F. Green Jr., '27. Conroe, Texas, Secretarj-. 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Thomas Jones, '04. 211 E. McCarty St, President Michael R. Fox, '34, 3942 N. Penn St., Secretary, 
JACKSON, MICHIGAN 
Byrne M. Daly, 207 Ellery Ave., President Lester Wisda, '31, 1016 E. Ganson St.. Secretary. 
To Jackson the month's orchid, or whatever Brother Greenhouse has in bloom, for efficiency in organizing a meeting on telegraphic notice. 
On January 9, Professor FRANK W. KELLY of the Department of Speech, and the Alumni Secretary were guests of the Dominican Sisters of St. Joseph College in Adrian. The occasion was a farewell program for Bishop-Elect Plagens of Marquette. Featuring the program was the presentation by the students of "The Fool of God," a play by the late Pro­fessor CHARLES PHILLIPS. Prof. Kelly had furnished the script and suggestions for the production, and was invited to be present at its per­formance. An excellent presentation rewarded the trip and the efforts of the cast and their director. 
Being as near a Club as Adrian is to Jackson, temptation was too strong for the Secretary, and a wire was sent to BYRNE DALY, president of the organization. Enlisting LES­TER WISDA, live wire secretary. President Daly had a turnout of mem­bers at a luncheon on Friday, Jan. 10, that was little short of the complete Club roster. In addition to members, Joseph Noon, prominent Jackson at­torney, and father of tho late HAR­RINGTON NOON, '29, was a wel­come guest and gave an excellent talk. Short talks by Prof. Kelly and ARMSTRONG followed, and plans were discussed briefly for more reg­ular meetings of the Club. 
The meeting was brief to permit Prof. Kelly to give reading pro­grams before the students of both St. Mary's and St. John's high schools, contacts made through the Club and the courtesy of the two fine schools from which Notre Dame has enrolled excellent boys. 
JOLIET, ILLINOIS 
Robert Duffy, '31, 213 N. Hickory, Presi­dent Edward H. King, 301 Ruby St, Secretary. 
The ever-active Joliet Club is up in front again with another new idea, according to TOM FEELY, who vis­ited the campus on Jan. 20. The mem­bers have been having a bobsled party every Saturday night, taking advan­tage of the abundant share of snow and ice with which Illinois—and Indi­ana, too—^has been favored this win­ter. The club's permanent quarters have been much-used and very popu­lar, too, according to frequent word from that sector. 
KANSAS 
Albert J. Gebert '30. U. of Wichita, Wich­ita. Kansas. President Dan Welchons, *30. 623 Elm St., Ottawa. Kansas, Secretary. 
KANSAS CITY (Missonri-Kansas) ­
Robert Tyler, '29, 3616 Paseo Blvd.. Kan­sas City. Ho., President. Charles E. Heyer, '29, 420 E. Armour Blvd., Kansas City, Mo., Secretary. 
KENTUCKY 
Eugene J. Steuerle. '25, 1439 Willow Ave., Louisville, President John Bannon. '32. 2011 Sherwood, Louisville, Secretary. 
142 



LAPORTE, INDIANA 
A. Gordon Taylor, '18. 1507 Indiana Ave.. President. Norman Duke. "33. 304 Niles St., Secretary. 
* 

LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
p. E, Burke. "SS. 307 Camp St.. New Or­leans. La.. President. Cyprian A. Sporl, Jr., '28, Whitney-Central Bids.. New Or­leans. La.. Secretary. 
Much to my surprise, while out at the race track one Saturday after­noon during the Christmas holidays, I ran into JIM CROWLEY, his wife, and REX ENEIGHT. Jim and his wife were on their way to California to witness the Rose Bowl game and Rex was down here with his Georgia basketball team. -A.lthough they both stated that they were novices at pick­ing race horses, they did quite a good job. 
We have also been honored by a 
•I'isit from Dean Konop of the Notre Dame Law School, who was down here with his family attending the National Law Schools Convention. I inquired of the Dean how he kept himself looking so young and am hap­py to say he advised me that all the boys in his law school are coming along very nicely and are giving him little worry. 
I know TOM McMAHON will be glad to know that DON LASKEY finally decided to pay New Orleans a visit after not being here in eight years. I was very lucky to run into him on the eve of the Sugar Bowl game, which, by the way, was really a football classic in every department of the game. 
Had the pleasure of meeting TIM GALVIN the other night with AUS­TIN BOYLE, and understand from them that Mrs. Galvin and Mr. and Mrs. RAY MILLER were in town, having come down for a meeting of the Supreme Board of the Knights of Columbus. 
CHARLIE and JULES DE LA 
VEEGNE and BOLAN BURKE got 
together with the Galvins and Millers 
the other evening. The writer regrets 
that he was unable to join them that 
particular evening. 
CYP SPORL. 

LOS ANGELES 
Thomas Hearn, 'IS, 1120 Pacific Finance Bids., President. Douglas Daley, '30, 781 Ceres Ave., Secretary, 


MANILA 
Eduardo Roxas. '33. 719 Echague. Manila, President. Leopoldo Brias, Manila, Sec­retary. 
* MEMPHIS 
Sturla Canale. '35, 620 S. Belvidere, Presi­dent. Lavin McNichoIas, '35, 591 N. Treze­vant St., Secretary. 
Sees-All-Enows-All HOCHREITER class secretary of '35, from his con­ning tower in New York reports that STUELA CANALE has been elected president of the Memphis Club and 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
L-AVIN McNICHOLAS, secretary and treasurer. No further dope to date! 
MILWAUKEE Harold Watson, '25, 735 N. Water St., President. John E, a.-iuder, '34, 1219 W. Vlict St.. Secretary. 
Sorry not to have had any infor­mation for the last issue of the ALUMNUS, but plans for our Christ­mas dance went bad and, therefore, no new information was available. 
At the present time we are plan­
ning a meeting for the first week 
in February, at which time we will 
decide on our spring program, as 
well as plans for Universal Notre 
Dame Night. If you know of any 
men around these parts who wish 
to join us at any time, please send 
their names, or ask them to get in 
touch with me. 
JOHN E. CLAUDEE, 
Secretary. 
He 
MONTANA Earl W. Brown, '93, 320 Power St.. Helena. President. James B. O'Flynn. *11, Great Falls, Secretary. 
* 
NASHVILLE Robert P. Williams. Jr., '29, lOG Gallatin Hoad, Secrolnry. 
NEW JERSEY Thomas Purcell, '27, 32 N. 16th St.. East OranKe, President. Raymond A. GeiKer, '32, 446 Eastern Parkway, Ir\-ington, Sec­retarj'. 

Not having consulted our alma­nac in advance, we had on the night of the January meeting one of the worst winter nights we have had, combining a sleet, rain and snow storm that was almost unnavigable. Consequently, the attendance was small and made for an abbreviated meeting. 
We had a report from the Christ­mas Dance Committee Chairman, PHIL HEINLE, who had to report a social but not a financial success. We did make a slight bit of money on the dance, though. 
Plans are being made for the Universal Notre Dame Night Ban­quet and by the next meeting we expect to have them pretty well formed. 
The rest of the meeting evening was spent in reviewing the holiday season and consequently your scribe is not able to give you a lengthier report. 
EAY GEIGEE, 
Secretary. 


NEW YORK CITY 
Edward T. Tighe, '24. 32 Franklin St.. 
New York City, President. J. NorTjert 
Gelson, Jr., '26, 1201 Troy Ave.. Brooklyn. 
Secretar>'. 


NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Robert P. Sullivan, '33, 102 Walnut St., San Francisco. Calif.. President. W. Brecn McDonald. *17, 839 Howard St.. San Fran­cisco, Calif., Secretary. 
February, 1936 


OREGON 
Frank T. Collier. '08. 721 Yeon BldfT.. Portland. President. William C. Schraitt. '10, Consolidated Equipment Co.. Portland. Secretary, 


OKLAHOMA 
Joseph A. Moran. '32. 1611 S. Carson. Tul­sa. President. Norbert F. Skelly. '25, University Gub, Tulsa, Secretary. 


PARIS 
Louis P. Harl. '16. Paris Office, New York Herald-Tribune, Paris, France, President. 


PEORIA 
Ernest C. Hechinger, '32, 301 Barker St, President, Al Gury, Jr., '28, 612 Alb.-iny Ave., Secretary. 


PHILADELPHIA 
Gerard Degen. '10, 6734 N. ISth St.. Pres­ident. Wm. E. Gooney, '31. 5725 McMahon Ave., Secretary. 

The following news from BILL COONEY arrived a bit late for the January issue: 
Early in December BERNAED VOLL, President of the Alumni, was in the city and the officers of 
•the club managed to have the pleas­ure of joining Mr. VoU for a short visit. 
At our last meeting the feature of having guest speakers was inau­gurated by having Norman Griffin, President of the Philadelphia Cath­olic Sodality League, give a new view on the notable work of Catho­lic Action. 
PAT CONWAY, '30, is coaching football at West Catholic High School in the city. He was a wel­come visitor at our meeting, as was VTNCE DONAHUE, the local lad who is working in Chicago. LEO KEATING, '33, is playing gieat ball in the Eastern professional basketball league while JIM LEON­ARD, another Jerseyite, has finished another season as regular on the Philadelphia "pro" football team. The news has been received that BILL WALSH is now an engaged man. TOM BYRNE, '34, was mar­ried early this month. 
Last night the local alumni had the pleasure of seeing Coach Keogan's team give Penn a set back. The crowd of 8,000 set a record for attendance in the city for this season. This made the eighth straight game N. D. won from Penn., which certainly is fine by us. 
Our Christmas supper dance was by far the finest dance ever held by us. The committees chose a beautiful place in the Eitz-Carlton Hotel ball­room, and the showing of movies of some of last Fall's games proved a novel feature. This was the first dance entirely conducted by the alum­ni club, and we received splendid sup­port from the undergraduates. 
Our meeting headquarters have been shifted to the Philopatrian club 
which is a well known Catholic soc­iety. 
CHARLIE McKINNEY announces the birth of a son at the McKinney house. 
WALT PHILIPP is making good ^vith his orchestra, and undoubtedly you will hear him on the air soon. I am sure MARTY BRILL'S friends will be sorry to hear of the death of his father. 
BILL COONEY 

PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
E. John llilkcrt, '22, Box 62. President, .lulius J. Danch, '25, 313 N. 20lh Ave.. Secretary. 

ROCHESTER, (New York) 
Peter J. Connelly. '33. 991 N. Goodman St., President: Frank Norton. '32, 80 BCC'K. with Terrace, Secretary. 

RHODE ISLAND 
Leo R. aicAloon, *30. 260 Pawtucket Ave.. Pawtuckct. President. John F. ftlcKier­nan, '3-1, 206 Lockwood Ave., Providence, Secretary. 

ROCK RIVER VALLEY (Illinois) 
Raymond C. Marclli. '27, 1312 Youns St.. Rockford. 111., President, Francis W. Howland. '25. 902' N. Main St., Rockford. III.. Secretary. 

SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) 
Thomas F. Van Aarle, '21, Standard Oil Co.. SaKinaw. Slich., President. William 
C. Hurley. '25. 117 Cherry St., Sasinaw, Mich., Secretary, 

Coach WILLIAJI CERNEY, Wal­ly Fromhart, Andy Pilney, and the travelling Alumni Seeretai-y, visited Saginaw, Michigan, on December 12, where Coach Cerney showed pictures of the Ohio State-Notre Dame foot­ball game to the annual football ban­quet sponsored by the Knights of Columbus for the parochial football teams of the city. JOSEPH FRISKE, '26, was in charge of arrangements. Joe is also the coach of one of the teams present at the banquet. Wally and And}' came home suffering a severe attack of writer's cramp but must have their autograph in evei-y home in the Saginaw Valley. The entii-e affair, which ta.xed the caijacity of the banquet hall with a crowd of some 500, was well organized and the Notre Dame program met with enthusiastic response. Father Fitz­patrick, brother of GEORGE FITZ­PATRICK, Notre Dame athlete in 1916-17, was a very able and popular 
toastmaster. 
Following the banquet, the Notre Dame Club of the Saginaw Valley, through its able and experienced president TOM VAN AARLE, and Secretary BILL HURLEY held an in­formal meeting for the N. D. del­egation and guests at the Bancroft hotel. Time pei'mitted only this unof­ficial and hurried meeting with the Club and the cooperation of the members in deferring it until the late hours following the banquet was appreciated by the men from the campus. 
SAN ANTONIO 
William V. Diclmnnn. Jr., '25. 107 Thel­ma Drive, President. Edward G. Conroy, '30, 201 E. Crais PI.. Secretary. 
SIOUX CITY, IOWA 
Vincent F. Harrinston. *2o. Continental i\rort(ra'.re Co.. President. 
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
Michael F. Kinney, '31. State House. Pres­ident. John Troy. ex. '23. 800 S. Ninth St.. Secretary. 
ST. LOUIS 
Robert Hellrunc. '30. 306 N. Gr.and Blvd.. President: David J. Reilley. Jr.. '30. 1115 Louisville Ave., Secretary. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Francis Jones. '29. 802 I.O.O.F. Bide., South Bend. Ind.. President. Louis Chap-Icau. '30. Union Trust Bids.. South Bend. Ind.. Secretarj-. 
The Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley will sponsore a smoker of members of the Club at 8:00 o'clock on Feb. 14, 1936. This is the evening of the Notre Dame-New York Univer­sity basketball game and the members 
•will listen to the radio reports of the game. The smoker will probably be held at the Columbia Club in South Bend, but no definite arrangements have been made as to the place. An announcement will be made at a later date. 
The Club is making a donation of $50 to the Will Rogers Memorial fund in gratitude for Will's kindness to­ward Notre Dame and, particularly, in recognition of his appearance at the 1933 football banquet. 
Most of the members of the Club were very active in assisting in the staging of the annual football banquet and plans are now being formulated for the next annual football banquet. 
LOUIS C. CHAPLE.AU, Sec. 
* 

SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 
W.-ird L. Leahy, '26, 307 Forest Hill Drive, Syracuse. President. Francis J. Cashier, ex. '34, 111 Wendell Ave.. Syracuse, Sec­rctarj-. 
TIFFIN, OHIO 
C. J. Schmidt. '11. 260 Slelmore St.. Pres­ident. Fred J. Wagner. '29. 152 Sycamore St.. Sccretar>-. 
TOLEDO 
Norbcrt Scharf. '26, Toledo Edison Co., President. Joseph L. Wetli. '.11. 717 Starr Ave., Secretary. 
TRI-CITIES (Illinois-Iowa) 
Richard B. Swift. '20, Kahl BWK.. Daven­port, Iowa. President. Arthur L. Himbert. '32. .'527 SSth St... Rock Island. III.. Sec­retary. 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) 
•William
 HoKan. "32. 62 Mary St.. Binc­hamton, N.Y.. President. William YeaRer, 

•3-I.
 18 Vine St.. Binshamton. New York. Secretary. 


TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) 
Joiin D. Yolland. '30. 3221 Holmes Ave.. So., Minneapolis, President: Josepii R. Schroctler. '31. 219 Fremont Ave.. N.. Minneapolis. Secretary. 
UTAH 
Roi-mond R. Brady. '2-1, 206 Kearns Bids.. Salt Ijike City, President. Cyril Harbecke. '10, 64 F. St., Salt Lake City, Secretary. 
UTICA, NEW YORK 
Dr. John F. Kolley. '22. Peoples' Gas & Electric Bids.. President. Joseph W. Ful-Icm. '31, 1621 Neilson St,. Secretary. 
WABASH VALLEY, (Indiana) 
Paul Kennedy, '24, Templeton, Indiana, President. Emmett Fersuson, *32. Wallace Building, Lafayette. Indiana. Secretary. 
NOBLE KIZER wrote recently, betiveen speaking engagements in many parts of the country, to say that PAUL KENNEDY, '24, Temple­ton, Indiana, has succeeded him as president of the Wabash Valley Club and that EMMETT FERiSU-SON, '32, Lafayette, has been elected secretary-treasurer. 
Emmett said in a later letter that Paul and he expected to get together soon to plan a program of club activities. 
WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT 
John Robinson. '28. 32 Farminston --^ve.. President. James M. Monaffhan. '27, 44 Ayer St.. Secretary. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Francis J. Wilson. '28. 1217 Melvcm. Pittsburgh. President. Edward J. O'Brien. Jr.. '34. 446 Wood St.. Pittsbursh. Sec­retary. 
Your letter the other day. served to remind me that I have been rather negligent in reporting the Club news. So here's for a few items that I trust ^vill be of interest as we here in Pitts­burgh have been fairly active. 
The Christmas dance was very suc­cessful from the two proverbial angles —socially and financially. President FRITZ WILSON and his aides, VINCE BURKE and JIM DODSON, deserve unqualified praise for the way in which the affair was handled; although many of the few-remaining Wilson hairs whitened with worry. The ballroom of the Hotel Schenley provided the new setting for the dance and was entirely satisfactory. Along with a professional dance team and a blues singer, entertainment was provided by GEORGE SCHILL'S in­terpretation of the Carrioca-Jacknife^ —a dance with a thumping good fin­ish. Brother Schill promises to stick to the automobile business—after the bruises heal. 
The guest list was quite impressive. DR. LEO O'DONNELL left Mercy 
hospital long enough to be with the boys and seemed to enjoy it all. JOHN BRILEY was there in all his dignity. The glitter in a pair of Chicago eyes that really glit had BILL LORD in a trance all evening—and did he love it! CHICK SHEEDY, an example of sar­torial elegance, was right there until the final toot, with brother JACK SHEEDY casting longing looks at Chick's high hat and tails. 
AVe all missed BILL STEITZ who had been injured in an automobile accident and was in the hospital. He has just about fully recovered by this time. Also missed was EDDI E BYRNES whose absence was caused by his becoming a father (again) just a short itme before the dance. 
A goodly portion of the club turned out for the Pitt-N. D. basketball game on the tenth, and helped cheer the boys on to their well-earned 43-3.5 victory. ELMER LAYDEN, with JOE BACH and George Keogan, received warm greetings. 
The next big activity planned by the club is the annual retrgat to be held at St. Paul's Retreat House the week-end of Jan. 24-26. An unusual amount of interest is being taken in the retreat and there will no doubt be a full house. JOE BACH is in charge of arranging the afTair this year. ­JOHN RIORDAN, also a devout re­treater, is Joe's right-hand man. 
Our weekly luncheons continue to be well-attended with tivo new faces appearing regularly — BILL LORD and JIM MAROHN, both of '35. In case you've forgotten, the Commodore is the place; and Thursday noon the time. The out-of-towners are invited and you'll enjoy yourselves—^just ask PAT C.^NNY of Cleveland who pays regular visits. 
At the luncheon today it was an­nounced ivith sorrow that LEW FOL­LET'S wife had died Sunday, Jan. 12. 
ED O'BRIEN. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 
John J. Dempsey, '95, Dempscy Lumber 
Co., Tacoma. President. Robert I. Pisott, 
'32, 925 12th Ave., N., Seattle, Socretary-
WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA 
Thomas F. Howley, '11, Citizens-Peoples Trust Co., Wheelinp:, President- George Sarffus, '28, 2111 Belmont. Bcllaire. Ohio. Secietary. 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
John Moran, '29, 1348 Quinn. President. Charles Cushwa. '31, 463 Madera Ave., Secretary. 
WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
Sister M. Frederick. aS.C . St, Mary's College, Notre Dame. Ind., President, Sis­ter M. Angelice, B.V.M.. Secretary. 


HEADS WPA IN IDAHO 
Prominent among many prominent public figures in the Northwest is John L. Hood, '14, of Boise, Idaho, state administrator of the Works Progress Administration. Along with 
D. Worth Clark, '22, also of Boise, United States Congressman from the first Idaho district and a much-men-
JoHN L. HOOD, '14 
Dry goods to WPA. 
tioned candidate for governor of Idaho, John is carrying on with Notre Dame principles in a territorj- where Notre Dame men are scarce. 
Three days after he was graduated in 1914 John was hard at work with his family in conducting a chain of retail dry goods stores in southern Idaho and northern Utah. With time out for Army service in 1918, he stayed with this business until 1927 when the stores were sold to the J. C. Penney Company. 
Later in 1927 John organized a Building and Loan company in Poca­tello, Idaho, but within a few months the First Security Corporation, chain banking concern, had bought all the assets and liabilities of his new "child" and had taken over the "proud father" with them. John remained with the chain bankers until he took charge of the WPA this year. 
Asked for a bit of advice to pass on, John said: "Public service is a fascinating business, but it is largely hard work and worrj'." He cited the Ohio State victory (he got out of a meeting just in time to hear the final four minutes of the game) as a re­iteration of the "old Notre Dame principle of refusing to be licked till the whistle blows." 


FOOTBALL BANQUET 
(Continued from Paffe 121) 

that we like to believe is unequalled at least in its several motives. 
"First of all, many of our alumni have been in the same position these boys are in tonight. Our congratula­tions are not without an understand­ing of their triumphs, and the prob­lems and the disappointments that ac­companied them. 
"Secondly, the men who coached the team this year are all members of the Alumni Association. Our con­gratulations are enriched, then, with that added fellowship many of us knew who were in school with them. 
"Thirdly, we know the men who have taught these boys off the field. And we know the principles of Notre Dame. So we congratulate them at the close of a season with the convic­tion that they have acquired many things more lasting than the printer's ink which recorded their glorious Sat­urdays. 
"And lastly, many of these young men will come here again next year. Many of them will not. And I know that I will be pardoned for consider­ing these last, the Seniors. 
"AA'ith all due respect and apprecia­tion for the support of a large and loyal public, the last gun of the last game writes an end to the interest that flamed in you for these modem knights in blue jersey armor. 
"But for us, who know Patrick Nel­son as an Iowa jurist; who hail Frank Hering as a great editor; who follow the engineering projects of Lou Salmon; who admire the lega l achievements of the Miller Brothers, of Don Hamilton, of Roge Kiley; who hear recurring praise of the ability in his special field of Ray Eichenlaub; who follow the progress in the med­ical profession of Johnny Mohardt, Eddie Anderson, Bucky O'Connor; —ours is not the book end for these boys. Ours is but the close of brilliant first chapter. 
"We look tonight to these team members, who have ended their foot­ball careers, as the most recent of an illustrious group. They will join in Jime an Association in which those who have trod similar paths before them have maintained an identity, not by isolation but by distinction. 
"The Notre Dame student body comes from the four corners of the earth. The football team is but a cross-section of it. Like all our alum­ni, these boys will return to their sev­eral homes. They will assume varied professoinal careers. 
"We congratulate them with the significant knowledge that the Notre Dame system has endowed them, as it has endowed the generations before them, with a good plot and a good character to finish the whole book." 




THE ALUMNI 
ENGAGEMENTS 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Eleanor A. Yost and RICKARD J. DERICKS, '31. 

MARRIAGES 
Miss Geraldine Cozzens and JOHN 

P. BUTLER, '27, were married Jan. 4, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Dorothy McGivem and JOHN DORGAN, '29, were married Dec. 28, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Anna Marie Dahlem and ROMEO P. ALLARD, '31, were mar­ried Dec. 27, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Betty O'Hara and EDWARD 

B. RYAN, '31, were married Nov. 30, in Chicago, Illinois. 
Miss Madeline Van Renterghem and RAYMOND DeCOOK, '32, were married Dec. 28, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Enna ' Marie Gutierrez and ANTONIO DIAZ, '32, were married Dec. 14, in Merida, Yucatan, Mexico. 
Miss Vera McClintic and GREN­VILLE N. KING, '34, were married Jan. 16, in South Orange, N. J. 
Announcement was made Dec. 24, of the marriage of Miss Rose Perry, and WAYNE MILLNER, '36, which took place Dec. 29, 1934. 
Miss Waneta Butterbaugh and JOHN W. JACKSON, '34, were mar­ried Jan. 18, in South Bend, Ind. 
Miss Rita Ryall Davis and HARRY SYLVESTER, Jr., '30, were married Jan. 18, in New York City. 
Mrs. Virginia Doody and THOMAS KASSIS, '31, were married Jan. 2, in Cheyenne, Wyo. 

BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLARD JONES, '25, announce the birth of a daughter, Cecelia, on Dec. 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK DONOVAN, '28, announce the birth of a son, Thomas Patrick, last Oct. 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. C. J. RIHN, '29, an­nounce the arrival of twin daughters, last Nov. 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. EVERETT JEW­ELL, '29, announce the birth of a daughter, Joan, Sept. 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN W. ANDER­SON, '31, announce the birth of a daughter, Margaret Mary, Dec. 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. LESTER WISDA, '31, announce the birth of a daughter, Dec. 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. ALFRED J. ARTZ, '33, announce the birth of a son, James William, Jan. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. TIMOTHY WAITE, ex. '37, announce the birth of a daughter, Mary Josephine, Jan. 9. 

DEATHS 
The ALUJINUS extends sincere sym­pathy to: A. HAROLD WEBER, '22, upon the death of his father; HIRAM HUNT, '23, upon the death of his mother; ROGER KILEY, '23, upon the death of his brother; J. NORB­BRILL, ex. '32, upon the death of his father; GEORGE DRISCOLL, '25, upon the death of his father; HAL KRAUSER, '26, upon the death of his father; DAN O'NEILL, '26, upon the death of his brother; J. NORB­ERT GELSON, '26, upon the death of his father; JAMES MEEHAN, '24, upon the death of his uncle; LOUIS 
E. WAGNER, '18, upon the death of his mother; RICHARD GILFOYLE, '24, upon the death of his father; STEVE PIETROWICZ, '26, upon the death of his father; VINCENT GOR­MAN, '35, upon the deaht of his fath­er; JOSEPH F. HARTZER, Jr., '39, upon the death of his father; and NORMAN HARTZER, '29, upon the death of his brother. 
After a prolonged illness THOMAS 
F. DWYER, '02, Worcester, Massa­chusetts, prominent engineer in the East, died on Dec. 16. A member of the track team at Notre Dame and track manager in his senior year, Mr. Dwyer subsequently was employed as an engineer by the city of New York and as head survey engineer for the Board of Fire Underwriters of Penn­sylvania. The latter position he held until 1932, when he entered private engineering practice in Worcester. Surviving are Mrs. Dwyer, one daughter, a brother and a sister. 
One of Mishawaka's outstanding residents, AMBROSE MAJOR, presi­dent of Major Brothers Packing Com­pany, died suddenly after a heart at­tack on Jan. 9. Injuries which he suf­fered in an automobile accident on last September 30 were thought to have been partially responsible for his death. 
Bom on Nov. 9, 1867, just south of Mishawaka, Mr. Major attended No­tre Dame from 1882 to 1886. Soon afterward he, with his brothers, en­tered the meat packing business. Eventually guiding the Major Broth­ers Packing Company to a position of prominence in the Middle West, Mr. Major at the same time took a lead­ing part in Mishawaka finance as an officer and director of several banks. He was particularly known as a gen­erous friend of the needy. 
Surviving Mr. Major are his two sisters, with whom he made his home, two brothers, t(vo nephews and three niece?. His funeral, with Mass at St. Joseph's Church in Mishawaka, was the occasion of general civic mourn­ing. 
A recent note from Mrs. Dederich made known on the campus the death in May, 1935, of ROBERT J. DED­ERICH, '11, Toledo. 
Dr. LOUIS E. BRINKER, ex. '96, prominent Cincinnati eye, ear, nose and throat specialist, died suddenly in his home on Dec. 23 after a heart attack. One of the most active mem­bers of the Notre Dame Club of Cin­cinnati, the doctor was to have ar­ranged for a speaker at the next club meeting. 
After leaving Notre Dame, where he was captain of the crew. Doctor Brinker was graduated from New York University and from University and Bellevue Hospital medical school. He also studied at Johns Hopkins in Baltimore and in Vienna. Surviving him are Mrs. Brinker and a sister. 
MICHAEL F. SOMERS, '11, died in Evanston, Illinois on Dec. 31, after a brief illness, according to word from Class Secretary Fred Steers and also from Leo Heringer, '24, Joliet, Illinois. Steve Herr and Ed Delana had sent the sad news to Fred. Mr. Somers was buried in Bloomington, Illinois, his home for many years, on Jan. 2. Leo Garrity and Mr. Herr were among the pallbearers. A son of Mr. Somers is a freshman at Notre Dame this year. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus February, 1936 
A member of a "Notre Dame fam­ily," RICHARD DINNEN, 44 years old, of Fort Wayne, son of Dr. J. M. Dinnen, '96, also of Fort Wayne, died on Jan. 18 after a several weeks' ill­ness of endocarditis. 

Mr. Dinnen attended Notre Dame from 1910 to 1912 and received his civil engineering degree from Purdue in 1915. He was subsequently em­ployed by the NicWe Plate railroad and served as a lieutenant in the Coast Artillery during the World War. He later served many years as chief deputy to the county sur^'eyor of Allen County, Indiana. At the time of his death Mr. Dinnen was WPA project engineer for the South Bend ­district. 
Sur\'iving, in addition to Doctor Dinnen, are iive brothers, former No­tre Dame students, and three sisters, one of the latter. Sister -•Vdella, C.S.C. of St. Mary's, Notre Dame. 
* 
RAYMOND M. G.A.LLAGHER, '23, of Chicago, supreme orator of his days at Notre Dame, was killed in an automobile accident on New Year's day while he was returning with his wife from a visit with friends in nearby Hammond, Indiana. Kay was hurled from his car when it hit a telephone pole after skidding on a slippery road. His death was instan­taneous. His ^vife sustained only minor injuries. 
Professor of history in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, DePaul University, Chicago, Ray was nation­ally known as an authority on gov­ernmental personnel. DePaul granted him a leave of absence in 1934, when he was associated with the Farm Credit Bureau as a specialist in this field. He had received his doctor's degree from the University of Chica­go in 1932. His writings appeared in many national publications. 
The DePaulia, student paper at DePaul, said of Ray: "Dr. Gallagher was on the threshold of a promising career, either in teaching or diplo­matic service.' Possessed as he was with all the qualities necessary for success, his loss to the DePaul admin­istration, faculty and student body shall be felt for many years to come." 
* One of Notre Dame's outstanding students in the period just before the War, EUGENE R. McBRIDE, '16, died suddenly in Pittsburgh on De­cember 26. Associate editor of the Scholastic and literary editor of the Dome, Gene was also vice-president of his junior class and president of his senior class. He served in the United States Army after leaving Notre Dame, then en­tered the advertising business in Pittsburgh and remained thus en­gaged until his death. As a lover and collector of books— 
many of them first editions—and a wide reader. Gene had collected a choice library, which in accordance ^rith his e.vpressed wishes, will be sent to Notre Dame by Mrs. McBride, who survives him. 
Gene was a prominent and active member of the Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania. 


PERSONALS 
Before 1880 ''iX-fS.Z-^,lT 
1880-1885 ^•'"f- Kobert M. Anderson. 
Cirdevillc. Ohio 
1886 M'*acl O. Barns, 338 S. Second St., 
Hamilton, Ohio 
GOLDEN 

ANNIVERSARY REUNION 
June 5, 6 and 7 
Mr. BURNS, secretary of the class, was toastmaster at the banquet which the Notre Dame club of Hamilton, sponsored in late Decembmer to honor Bob Wilke, Hamilton product and one of Elmer's leading backfield candi­dates for next Fall. Enthused by the success of that gathering Mr. Bums is looking forward to, and planning for, the reunion of his class on the campus next June. 
1887-1888 Jo^" ^ Heineman, Conners­
ville. Indiana. 
1889 ^- ^- Burke, 301 Camp St., New Or­
leans, La. 
1890-1893 I^"'5 !"• Chute, 7 University 
Ave., Minneapolis, Minn. For 1892 and 1893: This is the Vix Plan reunion year. Plan now for a big week-end on the campus, June 5, 6 and 7, with the men who were in school with you. 
If the "Four Secretaries of '90 to '93" can be permitted a self-retrospec­tive allusion, he might venture to re­late a consistent refrain coming from his friends of the early nineties: "Haven't changed a bit." 
Plausibility in this compliment was somewhat impressed upon the one re­ferred to when buying his ticket at the annual dance of the Twin City Notre Dame Club at the St. Paul Hotel on the evening of the day after Christmas. Regular price per couple, or singly, was ?3. "Children over 60 half fare." On inquiry if he came un­der the latter classification the invest­or was looked at in amazement by the ticket vendor, who said: "Not on your tin type. Three plunks is the price." That measure of the commodity being counted out the merchant said: "and 30 cents more for the tax." I can be imagined what the purchaser "felt like," after believing he had made a double-header. Passing over a two-bit piece, he said: "This is a quarter of it. Now I suppose you want the other three." Merchant said: "Nope. Five cents more only." So 70 cents was thus saved by the squareness of the merchant in declining to accept the three extra round two-bits. 

The affair was not run by the 90s or 93s, nor was the place packed with them; otherwise the entire setting was quite commendable. Dr. and Mrs. 
J. M. CULLIGAN, among other not­ables, graced the occasion with their presence. 
If the members of these classes would be more communicative in sup­plying information to this station, and give their personal thoughts, exper­iences, actions and reactions, perti­nent to college affairs, it might be promotive of a monthly «Tite-up in the ALUMNUS of interest to the rest of us. That's what a "bunch of secre­taries" is for, who cannot manufac­ture news to order. Can it be a lack of stamps, or a snug, smug prosperity that stands in the way? Would like to hear them speak up if not to incon­venient. The wonder is, what do the '80s do? 
There has lately come to hand a letter from the alumni secretary to the effect that this is the year when the '92 ot '95ers are expected to join the '11 to '14ers in attendance on Commencement Day exercises, under the Dix reunion plan, and comments that the 50-year Class of '86, 2o-year class of '11, and five-year class of '31, are going strong. It is believed that a meeting of these groups would make it interesting for each other. Tug of war between the '86 and '31ers. If they come by motor "Mr. Policeman" will tell them where to park. 
LOUIS P. CHUTE, Secretarj-. 
18<)4 Hush A. O'DonncU, 1 W. 67th St, "^ New York City. 
Dix Plan reunion, June 5, 6 and 7, on the campus. Classes of 1892, 1893, 1894 and 1895. 
I am glad to report that recently I read a handsome article in a Newark, Ohio, newspaper on the re-election of Hon. FRANK A. BOLTON, Notre Dame, '94, to the muncipal judgeship to which he has already been re­elected again and again. The report gave a hisotry of Frank's career, not only after, but before, he went to Notre Dame and graduated with an 
LL.B. He has a nice family of boys with a charming little lady for a wife. I occasionally hear from them. A very %vise and rigidly proper picture of Frank accompanied the newspaper 

February, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
story. Frank is one of those who has always reflected much credit on his Alma Mater. 
DAVE HAYES, one of those who found fame on the original Rockne team, and afterwards has been in the coal business in Hartford, Conn., for a number of years, is also president of The Yorkshire Distillers, Inc., a new organization and the only dis­tillery in Connecticut. It has only been started three months and the balance sheet for the first quarter is agreeably satisfying. I should know because I am financially interested. Congratulations to Dave. He is the boy, who worked his way through Notre Dame with a dozen tiny jobs, earning enough so that he had $300 remaining on the day of his gradua­tion. That was all his wealth. He saw the president of the University, stat­ing he wished to go as he came and presented the 5300 to the University as a present. 
HUGH O'DONNELL 

1895 Eustace Cullinan, Sr.. S60 Phel.nn BIdjr., San Francisco, Calif. Dix Plan reunion, June 5, 6 and 7, on the campus. Classes of 1892, 1893, 1894 and 1895. 
W. S. Wilkin sends from his home in Bay City, Mich., a clipping to tell how the same decorations of blue and gold which were a feature of the Roosevelt-Philippine convocation on the campus on Dec. 9 were used at hte charity ball in the armory. Bay City, on Dec. 26. The same Detroit firm did the decorating in both cases. The story was worth a streamer head, "Charity Ball To Use Notre Dame Decorations," in the Bay City Times. 
1896 ^^'•"'"'n r- Burns. 327 Willard Ave. 
Michidan City, Ind. 

1897 ^'^^'* *^* ^^' ^lacNamara, St. Joseph's 
Sanitarium, Mt. Clemens, Micti. 

1898 ^^''•li'"" C. Keglcr, 9tli and Sycamore 
Sts., Cincinnati, Ohio. 

1899 I^""* Joseph F. Duane. 4 IS Jelterson 
la^ir Blvd.. Peoria. III. A letter from Brother B. K. O'Don­nell, Vancouver College, Vancouver, British Columbia, tells of the promin­ence and popularity there of ROB­ERT P. BROWN, one of the out­standing athletes of his day at Notre Dame and a veteran of the Spanish-American war. Mr. Brown is owner of the leading athletic club in Van­couver. 
190O J"''" ^^'- Eitseman. Old First Bank 
•••"' " BldB., F t Wayne.'ind. 
1901 Joseph J. Sullivan, 1300. 139 N. 
* Qark St.. Chicago, HI. 

1902 C. C. Mitchell, 110 S. Dearborn St., Bo.t 3, Chicago, 111. 
190^ Francis P. Burke, 001 Trust Co. ^^" ^ BIdK., Milwaukee, Wis. 
1904 Robert Proctor, Monger Bldg., Elk­hart, Ind. 
1905 Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. LaSnlle St. Chicago, III. 
1906 Thomas A. Lally. 811-13 Paulsen BIdg., Spokane, Wash, From Montreal comes the an­nouncement that FRANK SHAUGH­NESSY, Jr., has been selected as a member of the United States Olympic hockey team. Writing in the Mon­treal Beacon Paul Haynes, colunmist, says of him ". . . there is no athlete known to me whose character, spirit and sportsmanship better qualify him to represent his country at the Olym­pic Games than this popular son of the beloved 'Shag'." 
1907 ^'^^•- Thomas E. Burke, C. S. C, No­tre Djune, Ind, Following a trip to the University of Portland, Portland, Ore., where he helped to organize graduate depart­ments, REV. WILLIAM F. CUN­NINGHAM, C.S.C, returned to Notre Dame in early Januaray via New-York, after seeing the Panama Canal and Centra! America on a voyage from the Pacific Coast. 
* 

1908 Frank X. Cull, Bulkley Bid?., Cleve­land, Ohio. 
2909 E. p. CIcary, Notre Dame, Ind. 
1910 J''^*'- •*'• L. Moriarty. 1900 Euclid 
Ave.. Cleveland. Ohio. 

JIM DEERY, of Indianapolis, was one of the principal speakers on Sun­day, Jan. 12 in South Bend, at an observance of Catholic Youth Sunday by the combined Holy Name Societies of St. Joseph County. Another speak­er at the Same event was REV. JAMES W. DONAHUE, C.S.C, su­perior general. FATHER JOSEPH BARRY, C.S.C, assistant to FATH­ER VINCE MOONEY, C.S.C, in di­recting the C.Y.O. locally, was master of ceremonies and BILL FUREY sang, directed the community singing. 
On the following day, Monday, Jan. 13, Mr. Deery attended the Alumni Board meeting at the University, as well as the football banquet. 
1911 Fred steers, 1635 First National Bank BIdg., Chicago, 111. 
SILVER ANNIVERSARY REUNION June 5, 6 and 7 
When FRED STEERS was down to the campus for the Alumni Board meeting and football banquet on Jan. 13 he discussed with enthusiasm his plans for gathering in all the class­mates for the biggest 25-year reunion to date. You'll be hearing from him soon and reading in the ALUMNUS more about the program. Meanwhile, keep a red sircle around Friday, Sat­urday and Sunday, June 5, 6 and 7. 
1912 ^--f- Kaiser. 321 Fourth St., Pitts­burgh, Pa-Dix Plan reunion, June 5, 6 and 7, on the campus. Classes of 1911 (sil­ver anniversary), 1912, 1913 and 1914. 
1913 ^"^^ J- Devitt. 921 Engineers Bids-Cleveland, Ohio. Dix Plan reunion, June 5, 6 and 7, on the campus. Classes of 1911 (sil­ver anniversary), 1912, 1913 and 1914. 
A clipping, with his picture, from Columbus, Ohio, brings the good news that DR. J. M. DUNN, one of the city's most prominent medical men, has been elected president of the Co­lumbus Academy of Medicine for the year. 
* 

1914 Frank H. Hayes, -lOG Bank oC Amer­ica BIdg., Anaheim, Calif. . Dix Plan reunion, June 5, 6 and 7, on the campus. Classes of 1911 (sil­ver anniversary), 1912, 1913 and 1914. 
* 

1 Q1H James E. Sanford, 1524 Farwell Ave., ^^^ ^ Chicago. 111. JOE BYRNE has added to his al­ready numerous honors this latest: as a member of the board of trustees for Schools for Industrial Education, Newark, New Jersey. The appoint­ment was made by Governor Hoffman of New Jersey. The board administers the affairs of the Newark College of Engineering and the Newark Tech­nical School. Joe has been for some time a com­missioner of the Port of New York Authority. 
1916 Timothy P. Calvin. First Trust BIdg., Hammond, Ind. 
* 

1Q17 Edward J. McOsker, 104 S. Union ^ St.. Elgin, HI. 
IQIfl John A. Lemmer. 1110—8th Ave.. S., *''* ° EFc.-inab.i, Mich. 
101Q Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce Street. *"* " Gnrj-. Ind. 
iaOn Leo B. Ward. 1912 Black BIdg.. Los ^^^" Angeles. Calif. 
1<)0| Alden J. Cusick, 1 Park Ave,, New **^ * York City. 
AL SLAGGERT has been elected 
president of the Detroit Philosophical Society for 1936. Dr. DeWitt H. Park­er, head of the Department of Phil­osophy at the University of Michigan, is president. 
* 

1922 t'craW Ashe, Buffalo Athletic Dub. Buffalo. New York. 
1923 ^'^"^ Castner. ^Vh^te Motor Comliany, Cleveland, Ohio. 
1924 James F. Hajcs, Wm. J. Pedrick & Co., Empire State Bids., N. Y. C. 
1925 •'•''"' ^^- Scallan. 79 E. Adams St., Chicago. III. CLIFF POTTS, South Bend, is the new attorney for St. Joseph County as the result of the Republicans' suc­cession to political power in the coun­ty on Jan. 1. A large private prac­tice, coupled with his county duties, leaves Cliff ^\^th a big bill for mid­night oil, according to his wife. A private indignation meeting in Calumet City, Illinois on New Year's eve brought forcibly to the Managing Editor's attention the fact that ED AHLERING'S daughter, Ann, bom months and months ago, has never "made" the ALUMNUS. So, ladies and gentlemen, here is Ann. She has one brother, David, one mother, Katie, and one father, Edward Louis, besides an uncle known in the paint business as CL.4RENCE K.A.ISER. Her father helps people commit suicide and de­stroys city streets; he's general gas engineer for the Northern Indiana Public Service Company, with general offices in Hammond, Indiana, just across the state line from Calumet City. 
EUSS AENDT and his state cham­pionship Mishawaka High school foot­ball team were the guests at a testi­monial banquet on Jan. 9. NOBLE KIZER, athletic director and head football coach at Purdue, was the principal speaker and JOE BOL.A.ND, assistant coach at Notre Dame, offi­cially represented Notre Dame on the program. 
* 

1926 I'''- Gerald \V. Hayes. 95 N. Walnul *•"• " St.. East Oranse, N. J. Sending his dues for the year, ED CROWE writes from his post in De­troit where he is executive secretary of the diocesan Holy Name Society, with headquarters in the Chancery Building, 1234 Washington boulevard. The Catholic Youth Organization is under the sponsorship of the Holy Name Society in the diocese and Ed's job includes the direction of the en­tire athletic program of the CYO. GUS DORAIS, football coach at the University of Detroit, is CYO athletic adviser, Ed says, and BILL FURY, A.M., '27 (Boy Guidance) is directing the boys' work. Keeping up, along with CLEM, with the best Crowe tra­ditions, Ed has five sons. Two of Ed's 
and Clem's brothers are at N.D. this year, one a sophomore and one (the last of the line) a freshman. 
CLAUD PITSENBERGER, Indian­apolis, traveling about the state as an employe of the Indiana Securities Commission, was in South Bend for several days in mid-January and re­vived some old memories on the cam­pus. He was particularly eager to learn of the present wiiereabouts of JOHN LENIH.A.N, the former sing­ing representative of Cheyenne Wells, Wyoming, but the Alumni Office rec­ords couldn't help him. John has been among the temporarily missing, in the local records, for several years past. Mr. Pitsenberger, as well as the Alumni Office, would appreciate in­formaiton. 
The Crowes, Pitsenberger, Lenihan, a word now and then from the Uncles BURKE about Nephew H.A.YES—but, of course, no word from the Doc him­self—lunch with H.A.LEY, a letter from VIC LEMMER, a chat with JIM RONAN at a football game and GER­RY McGINLEY's note from the Neb­raska plains—all these bring to the front the fact that next June it will be ten years since that eventful Sun­day afternoon when they had to give the customers rain checks to get into church. The .A.lumni .Association set­up doesn't call for an official ten-year reunion, but that's no reason why there can't be an unofficial one. Should there be sufficient demand, the local gang of '2Gers could probably be per­suaded to find a headquarters for one good get-together. Interested persons, please write to Haley or Dooley. 
1927 Edmund DeOerq, SllS Ellis Ave., Chicago. III. AL DOYLE, head of the Speech Department at the University, is chairman of the Mishawaka commit­tee in charge of the birthday ball for PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT, '3.5. 
iqos Louis Buckley. "IS E. Corby St., '•^^° South Bend. Ind. 
Secretary BUCKLEY keeps up his good work with the following: 
I had a note from Guadalajara, Me.xico, from VINCE CARNEY where he is visiting CONNIE OCHOA. Vince reported that he found Connie in excellent health though he is experiencing trouble at his planta­tion. Vince promised a longer letter on his return to Rochelle, Illinois. 
I was pleasantly surprised recently when attending a meeting of the Ber­rien County Alumni Club in Niles, Michigan, to meet JO JOHNSON, who, I thought, was still in China. Joe has been in Niles for the past two years running a leather goods store. 
After the meeting CAP GRATH­WOLD and I talked over old times in his new home in Niles where Cap is attorney for the city. He is mar­ried and has two children. TOM FAR­RELL is a justice of the peace there. With a set-up like that, '28 men should not have much fear of the law wiien in Niles. 
PHIL LANDSJ\LA.N, the third of the trio from Niles, is doing a very good job of practicing law in Buchan­an, Michigan. 
FRANK DONOVAN has resigned from his position as treasurer and purchasing agent for the Bantam Ball Bearing Company in South Bend, in order to do graduate work in the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration. Frank, his wife and three children, left for Boston Jan. 
21. His address in Boston is 202.5 Commonwealth Avenue. 
That journalist-engineer, L.ARRY WINGERTER, is still in Indian­apolis Railways, according to recent word from him. Larry handled adver­tising and publicity for the Gary Rail­ways immediately after finishing at Notre Dame, later went to Des Moines in a similar capacity and eventually was asked by the new president of the Indianapolis Railways—formerly of Gary—to assist in the moderniza­tion of the Indianapolis system. This program has been an outstanding feat in the street car field. 
1929 Joseph SIcNamara. 231 Wisconsin St.. Indianapolis. Ind. A letter from PAUL BROKAGE, brings the following news from Vin­cenes, Indiana: While Vincenes does not have many Notre Dame men, it has been fortunate enough to have some who have upheld the good name of the school at all times. ELMER MARCHING, lawyer, is in the income tax division at the State House in Indianapolis. LYLE MILLER is a successful lawyer here. R.A.Y ZIL­lAK is managing the local branch of Ziliak & Shaffer Milling Company, and is, at the same time, lecturer for the Knights of Columbus. 
JIM McQUADE got a tough break when the Gibault Catholic high school closed as he was serving in the ca­pacity of athletic director and making quite a name for himself as a basket­ball coach. Before long, however, he got back on the working list as floor manager for the Gimble Bond Com­pany, the largest department store in the city. JACK LENAHAN is at present working in Evansville, Ind., while DICK LENAHAN is, I believe, back with a steel company at Gary, Indiana. BERNIE LENAHAN was in Vincennes the last I heard of him, but I haven't seen him for a long time, so I can't give you the latest dope. 
JAC K OHNEMUS has recently been released from the Healthwin hospital north of Notre Dame and is. 

I believe, living in Mishawaka. When I last talked to him he told me that he was well on the way back to per­fect health. For myself, I'm still hav­ing a lot of fun in the retail business. Besides, I happen to be a co-worker with RAY ZILIAK, since I'm warden of the local K. of C. council. 
From New York legal circles comes the information that TED GRIFFIN, Binghamton, has passed the New York bar exam. 
'Twill be hard, cruelly hard, to believe it, boys, but here at last— after years of silence—is something the dogsled just brought in from McNAMARA: 
The most exciting thing which has happened to your Secretary in lo, these many months was the receipt of an envelope bearing the return address of "Via San Nicola dei Cesa­rini 3, Roma, Italia." Uttering "The duce you say" I fished out a very interesting letter from the talented, PAUL CLEVELAND McELROY, who has this to say: 
"I have appreciated your faithful 
Christmas greetings even though I 
am years late in acknowledging them. 
This year's reached me in Rome. I 
had been along the coast of Jugosla­
via in Dalmatia for some months but 
the king insisted upon getting him­
self shot. The resulting tension, 
which is typically Balkan, made life 
rather more interesting but the offi­
cial mourning was a bit thick. So I 
felt Rome was the reasonable spot 
to be in today, and it is a relief after 
the class struggles and hysteria of 
America. There is an inherent bal­
ance here more obvious since Italy 
has begun to awaken. Fascism, of 
course, springs directly from Impe­
rial Rome and it is the logical de­
velopement of the monarchy idea. It 
is far more intelligent than anything 
we know since it includes democracy, 
perhaps a greater proportion than 
that contained in the so-called de­
mocracies. It has, at least, at its head 
a creative artist who is necessarily 
a responsible man. This is an essen­
tial Catholic principle though though 
the woj-ld seems to have forgotten it. 
In fact the nearest parallel in gov­
ei-nmental forms is the system of the 
Catholic Church itself. Italian fascism 
has very little in common with the 
other brands and it is a great mis­
take to identify them. 
"It is difficult to believe these truths in the face of the rampant pro-Jewish anti-fascist propaganda in America. But Catholics at least should know better than to fall for it. 
"Excuse the tirade, but knowing 
the facts I feel I ought to spill them 
occasionally. You can judge that my 
interests still lie in art of one form 
or another. 
"They tell me Father O'Hara was 
in Rome awhile ago. I would like to 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
have seen him but did not discover the fact until after he had left." 
1930 Bcmaril W. Cbnroy, HOD Kenneth 
St. New Kcnsini^n. Pa. BOB EGGEMAN is now a member of the Fort Wayne law firm of which his father, Judge JOHN W. EGGE­MAN, '00, is the senior member. The name: Eggeman, Reed and Cleland. Bob has been with the firm since fin­ishing at Notre Dame. 
* 

1931 J"'"" ^- Boland. 1102 Linden St., 
Scranton. Pa. 
FIVE-YEAR REUNION June 5, 6 and 7 

JIM DOYLE sends the following grand dope from Chicago: 
With New Year resolutions in order around this time of the year I will do my best to make good a promise to send in some information to help fill the space allotted the class of '31. 
The other night I had dinner with FRANK HOLLAND, BOB PREN­DERGAST and his law partner, JIM RICH. We had quite an evening and in seai'ch of a few beers ran into GORDON LAWLOR, LARRY EN­RIGHT and MIKE TEDERS, who is now back in Chicago again. If TOM MONAHAN had been there it would have seemed like an old timers' meet­ing. I had a letter from MYRON HERSHFIELD last week. 
Last summer RAY COLLINS was married and went to Washington and New York on his honeymoon. GIL SEAMAN was best man and myself one of the ushers. Gil is also quite a successful married man and is the father of a lovely baby girl. 
CLARK BENKENDORF is now in­terning at a north side hospital. DICK BREEN is assisting the Lum­bermen's Mutual Insurance Co., in the settlement of their claims. Last sum­mer I heard from FRANCIS XAV­lER MURPHY of Manitowoc and JOHN BELTON via the chain letter craze. FREDDIE SWINT is in the oil business in Fremont, Ohio and hopes to make Commencement. JIM KEARNEY is teaching a few law courses at Loyola University. PHIL ANGSTEN has left the Board of Trade and now working on the north side. BILL BROMANN, of '30, with his wife and baby, has just moved into a beautiful new home in north Oak Park. I've had the good fortune to make a new connection and am now with Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. 
I am looking forward to the first reunion of the class of '31 and hope that as many as possible ^vill make it their business to be there. 
TOM CONLEY came back from the high school football banquet in La Salle, Illinois (where he was the chief speaker) with reports that PAUL DUNCAN was one of the prominent personages in attendance. Arrange­ments for Tom's appearance were made mth the help of Paul's uncle, WALTER DUNCAN, '12. 
Dr. L.A.WRENCE ZELL, graduate of Johns Hopkins in 1935, is an in­terne in Mary Immaculate Hospital, Jamaica, Long Island, New York. 
And BILL DESENBERG has just announced the opening of law offices in Buchanan, Michigan. In his extra­curricular moments Bill is an active and hard working member of the Ber­rien County Notre Dame Club. 
A thoughtful letter from one of his friends in Chicago contains the excel­lent news that AL KOLSKI has taken over the direction of the CYO ath­letic activities in St. Mary's of the Angels parish and is doing an out­standing job. A few years ago Al had one of the best football teams in the Humboldt Park district of Chi­cago. Just ahead of him is the pros­pect of political prominence, according to his friend. 
JOHN BOLAND is all steamed up and ready to go and is predicting the biggest five-year turnout in Notre Dame history. He suggests that the usual procedure—so successful in the past—of appointing a committee of local residents to handle arrange­ments for the gatherings of the class be followed again. You'll be getting more and more dope as the months fly past—and how they do fly! 
In the meantime, bribe the boss, kiss the landlord, buy the wife a new fur coat, promise the children a movie a week, but do make definite plans to be on the campus on Friday, Satur­day and Sunday, June o, 6 and 7. There will be the usual fine residence accommodations, the usual big alumni banquet on Saturday evening and the usual athletic, musical and theatrical attractions, all at no cost to the re­turning alumni. And, if you plan in advance to drive to the campus with some of the other boys, the factor of transportation cost can be reduced materially. 
Ergo, if you'll pardon our French, an immense week-end with all the old fellows and no expense sheet that can't be ok'd in a moment by the fam­ily treasurer. We'll be seeing you. 
* 

IQ^O Herbert Giorgio. 9003 188th St., Hol­'•"^^ lis. L. I.. New Yorlt. ANTONIO DIAZ, Calle 60, No. 337, Merida, Yucatan, Mexico, is one of the regular subscribers to the Scho­lastic and writes regularly to the University. 
1933 Donald Wise, 110 Pleasant St., Jo­tict. HI. 
JQ^ ^ James Moscow, 2320 N. Lawndalc Ave., ChicaKO. IlL MIKE WIEDL has forsaken Van­dergrift, Elkhart and points east for a new joh in Worth's store. South Bend. VINCE MAUREN is working in the offices of the W. H. Barber Com­pany in Minneapolis and MEL MEY­ERS is in the office of the Ford agen­cy in Redwood Falls, Minnesota. So sez Sec. CAHILL after finishing his fall job of keeping the coaches in shape for spring practice. A very welcome letter from BILL FROMM, who is in Racine, Wis., for a few months, brings the following news: "I had lunch with VERNE RUB­ER, '32, recently and had a very pleasant talk with him. He is a new­comer to Racine and district manager for Northwestern Mutual. Among other alumni, on New Year's Eve I say HUGH BALL, '32, who, with his wife, has come to Mil­waukee from Tennessee. Hugh's ac­count of his first toboggan ride was delightful. JIMMY BURKE, of Gary, was also very much in evidence on New Year's eve. A letter from Wilmington brings the news that ED BUTLER, '34, is engaged. He seems to be doing all right for himself at Delaware Power and Light." 
* 
193 5 ^"^^^y" C. Hochreiter, 722 Living­ston hall. Columbia Univ., N.Y. City. Director PROCTOR takes type­writer in hand to say: "Though it is generally against the policy of the .A.lumni Association to use the class news columns for such purposes, the Director feels it is not amiss at this time to urge the mem­bers of the class of 1935 to send in their alunmi dues. The Association is vitally interested in the establishment of certain bureaus which will defin­itely benefit all alunmi and must have funds to finance these bureaus. An Alumni Employment Bureau is in the embryo stage. That should speak for itself." Tom says further that JOHN BEN­JAMIN BEYRER, of South Bend, has gone professional and is teaching in the Roseland school. Also that JIM BOOKWALTER, of Niles, is working on the Niles Daily Star. JIM BYRNE, '36, comes through with a correction. AL LAWTON is not an insurance man in Cleveland, as reported in a recent number of the ALUJINUS, but rather is employed in the Cleveland branch of the well-known brokerage firm of Homblower and Weeks. Jim says also that E. THOMAS LEONARD is employed in the East Chicago, Indiana, plant of the Graselli Chemical Company. The following clipping from the Pittsburgh Press (CHARLIE WALSH, '27, sent one from the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, too) tells of 
the sensational rise of JOE BECEK in Ambridge, Pennsylvania, Pitts­burgh suburb. 
"Only seven months out of college, 
when most young men still are look­
ing for jobs, Joseph Becek is presi­
dent of Ambridge Borough Council. 
"Mr. Becek, elected by Burgess P. 
J. Caul's deciding vote when the Council itself split six to six, is 22— the youngest councilman ever elected here, and believed to be the most youthful council president in the state. 
"He defeated S. K. Van Horn, vet­
eran with 10 years' service in council, 
in the contest for the presidency. 
"A graduate of Notre Dame, Becek 
was class orator last year, and a 
member of the debating teams both 
at Notre Dame and Ambridge High 
school, from which he was graduated 
five years ago." 
Fresh from his Buffalo holidays and 

looking ahead to the N. Y. U.-N.D. 
combat on Feb. 14, HOCH sends 
through the following: 

The class of '35 expresses its pro­found sympathy to VINCE GORMAN his mother and sisters upon the trag­ic and untimely death of Mr. A^ncent 
A. Gorman, Sr., on Jan. 14. 
We must apologize for the brevity 

of the column this month. The "an­
gelic" news carrier has not done right 
by us these last few weeks and as a 
result we have the dope on only a 
few of the gang. 
TOM FLYNN has never returned to convey his thoughts to us. At least he has never left another card. We were planning on his visit, too. 
But one Tuesday evening we were pleasantly surprised with a call from JIM SHEILS. Jim is now working for the National Bureau of Casualty and Surety Underwriters in the city. As we reported before, he was elec­tioneering, but he finds this job more profitable. 
Jim informed us that .\L RAV.A.­RINO was in town before Christmas to meet his brother who returned on the Normandie from two years of study in Italy. We ujiderstand they "did the town up royally," 
While speaking of the St. Louis outfit, we might tell you that WADE KELLEHER, (who paid enough in golf fees to keep at least two greens in shape) is one of the main stays in his father's firm — Kelleher Carload­ing and Trucking Company. We can­not picture Wade as anything but an executive sitting behind a mahogany desk and taking his afternoons off for the favorite pastime. 
VINCE G0RM.4.N came down on the 11th to celebrate our natal day. He divulged the voluable info that that the inimitable JOE WASHO has finally given up het position of chief soda-jerker in his dad's drug store and is now employed by one of the nation's outstanding accounting firms, Price-Waterhouse in Pittsburgh. 
We have had news on BILL TOO­MEY for some time but have neglect­ed to pa'ss it along because of over­sight. Bill is a reporter for the New York Daily News. (Drop out for a beer sometime, Bill). 
Our friend JACK DONOVAN is now working for some Biscuit Com­pany in the metropolitan area. He was almost afraid to tell us about it during his last visit as he did not want people to think he was being fired every place he went. It is not that, but rather his "aggresive spirit to forge ahead." 
Upon our return from the festive holiday at Christmas there was a card awaiting us from JHTCH SALEH. He was among the fortunate ones to 
•natness the Sugar Bowl game in New Orleans. A letter was promised but never received. How about it, Mitch? 
From the southern journals we note 

that tivo of our number have taken 
over the leadership of the Memphis 
Notre Dame Club. STURLA CAN­
.4LE has been elected president of the 
body and LAVIN McNICHOLAS its 
secretary-treasurer. We wish them 
peaceful weather as their "ship of 
state" embarks on the sea of politics. 
Th e wall - paper industry has 

claimed the talent of JIM DWYER. 
Jim is working in Hudson Falls, New 
York, his home town. 'RTiether he is 
in the wholesale or retail end of the 
business we do not know. 
It comes to our ears that RALPH CHRISTENSEN, ex '35, has been working for an architectural firm in New York City. We hear that it is Cass and Company but have not had it verified. Ralph is about to enroll at Massachusetts Institute of Tech­nology to finish up his course begun at Notre Dame. 
While out to lunch one day we missed a visit from ED O'HARA and BOB CARTER. Fortunately, they left a note which unfolded their where­abouts. Both are here at Columbia in Teachers' College taking their mas­ters Degrees. They are commuting three times a week from. Jersey Since Ed lives in Rochester, New York, he evidently is liiing irith Bob who resides in South Orange, New-Jersey. (Try it again, fellas, around five in the afternoon). 
GEORGE O'BRIEN, who finished in February '35, is in town working for the Lion Brewerey. Evidently he is not a sampler for he is still in good "physical shape.'.' Joe Casasanta, please note.) 
We are looking forward to much news on the night of Feb. 14. Notre Dame plays New York University in basketball that evening in Madison Square Garden. BILL MILLER prom­ised to look us up. (Don't forget. Bill) 
For all those taking mid-year ex­ams at this period—^"We wish you en­lightenment and luck." 
See you at the N. Y. U. game! 



^mn ip^ggaM(g ®i? 1*11111 MMIL W3m 
IWENTY YEARS AGO, the wise car driver carried a nail file to clean the plarinum points in the distributor. 
Today, the nail file is banishedfirom tlie automobile tool kit. Tungsten points, developed in tlie General Electric Research Laboratory, in Schenectady, N. Y., have replaced soft and expensive platinum. There is little need to file tungsten points. Hidden away, requiring no attendon, they break electric circuits half a million times an hour and save car owners millions of dollars a year. 
Is this all G-E research has done for 24 million car owners? No! It has given new welding methods—and a stronger and safer car at lower cost; Glyptal finishes—and the expense of repainung your car is postponed for years; headlights and highway lighung —night driving becomes safer for motorist and pedestrian. 
Every product that carries the G-E name has built into it the results of G-E research. Other industries—and the public that buys the goods of those industries—have benefited by this research, that has saved the American people from ten to one hundred dollars for ever)' dollar it has earned for General Electric. 
GENERAL A ELECTRIC 
*^. as; 
^i^^2i 
^V?^" 

"l^l! 
-%.ftt 
•*^j :^^ 
^i 
I 

W 
'm



'^'^j 
f=S~i.ia^., '^'^» 
•^5.^­

^••ss^s 
r:iSf"^££^ 
^^:^ 
'*;-^«»j.-^.j' , ^'SMiii'j^'f 
j_* -1. 
M
•fj^^. 
•.fv^ 
•ja.f­
^^-'^ 
SMt 

WJII 
;;^ 



fe:.»l^ 

w<Mm^ 
^,a0site^mi 
^te:*-**-^ 


he aromatic Turkish tobaccos used in Chesterfield cigarettes give them a more pleasing taste and aroma. 
K'^-l-^PrE-^ 

ii,.f^-jr'«»!S«2?*­
iiSfrSii??^?*^; 
^^J^WM?: 
S«si5?. 
•?^i^r^ 

^N,IX:TURKISHi TOBAG.G©^ 
© 1936, iJCGErr & Mv£RS TOBACCO CO. 











