The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
"9 
COMMENT 
As announced in the lead story, the ALUMNUS in this issue, out so soon after the Eockne ti-agedy, will not attempt to include the details of that story. 
The public pi-ess in this coun­try and throughout the world, have brought to Notre Dame men the facts of the case that are interpreted in the word "news." There have been many feature stories, many poems, and many other journalistic ex­pressions that have paid their tribute to Rock, the most con­sistent news copy of the last decade. 
The ALUMNUS is planning to make the May issue a Me­morial issue in which the best of the news stories, the best of the editorials, the best of the car­toons and photographs, the best of the features, the sermon, the telegrams, the letters, and the thousand other beautiful expres­sions of these tragic hours can be put in the hands of alumni in a form that will enable them to be preserved. 
This will take time and effort at a season when time and effort are at a premium. The co-oper­ation of the members is asked in sending in immediately those clippings from the press that stood out in the various cities that our Association includes. 
A few suggestions have been made that Universal Notre Night this year be abandoned in memory of Rock. It seems, how­ever, to those officers of the University and the Association whom the Alumni Secretary has consulted, more fitting that we go ahead Avith our observance 
IN TlilS I##1JC 
Knnte K. Eockne_ -Frontispiece "The Inevitable Hour" 1 259 
U. N. D. Night, A Map, by Prof. F. X Ackermann_ . 260 Alumni Hall :_ _i . 261 James J. Phelan, Laetare Medallist _. 
263 
264 Editorial 269 Religious Survey Questionnaire Athletics, by Joseph Petritz . 
275 The Alumni Clubs 277 The Alumni . 282 
The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni 
Association of the University of Notre Dazne. Notre Dame. Indiana. The 
subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of single copies- is 25 cents. The 
annual alumni dues of S5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALTJMKtTS. 
Entered as second-class matter Jtuiuary 1, 1923, at the post o£5c« at Notre 
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. All correspondence should 
be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus. Bmc 81, Notre Dame. Indiana. 
MEMBEB OP THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 


THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTEONG, '25, Editor 

THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOtRE DAME. 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Adininistration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C , '90 Honorary President FRANK E . HEBING, '98 President" HON. WILLIAM J. GRANFIEXD, '13 Vice-President JASIES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary "WALTER DUNCAN, '12 --Treasurer GEORGE M . MAYPOLE, '03 Director 
M. HARRY MILLEE, '10 Director 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 Director JOHN W. EGGEMAN, '00 (ex officio) Director 

IIIIMIIIIIIIlit ••iinttllinMtlllMtlUllltHiiltllllllllllllltfllMlllttllilUtMtllllilDllliUIIHQ ^••<ii iiiiiiiitii 
But everywhere there can be, 
of this national Night, but turn its purpose this year to the com­mth all the natural grief and memoration of one of the great­regret, the comiction that Notre est of the sons of Notre Dame. Dame and Notre Dame men will 
join, as never before, in the per­In honoring him, we honor petuation of that fame which Her whom he loved and served. 
Eockne brought to Notre Dame. There can be none of the old There can be the "Victory joyousness. There can be none 
March" more stirring than ever of the securily of ti-iumph that before in the face of a great reposed in the knowledge that adversity. 
Rock held the reins. 
KNUTE KENNETH ROCKNE, '14, (1888-1931) 
R. I. P. 

April, 1931 THENOTREDAMEALUMNUS 


THE INEVITABLE HOUR 
When Death intercepted the pass that Knute Eockne had resorted to in an effort to run up a score for Life, it raced for a victory against Notre Dame that is difficult to accept in the Notre Dame manner. 
The ALUMNUS cannot attempt in this issue, which was already on its way to the press, to digest for alumni the gi-eat mass of material that has mirrored one of the nation's greatest griefs, a loss to Notre Dame that is irreparable. 
News was flashed to every corner of the world of the death of Knute Rockne, a death as meteoric in its dramatic tragedy as the few years that brought him to a peak of prominence transcending the narrow confines of the sporting world. "Rock" was the idol of neighborhoods and nations. 
Praise of Rockne forms a litany that brings a responsive Requiescat from the hearts of the world. Inspirer of youth, maker of men, apostle of sportsmanship — death has removed a character whose influence stretched far beyond his official sphere. 
He died as perhaps he would have wished to die, a patron of progress. Knute Rockne was essentially progressive. Years, few in number — he was only 43 — had brought him more fame than most men's lives can measure. And death, aside from its religious significance, has brought him life. 
Those virtues which Knute Rockne embodied and which he inculcated in those fortunate boys who came within his influence, will erect a monu­ment to him at Notre Dame, permanent, priceless. 
"Rock" taught Notre Dame how to lose, as well as how to win. Never has the knowledge been more needed. Notre Dame and Notre Dame men will not fail, in those lessons he has left. 
"Take it on the chin." Notre Dame has always kno^^^l that. When religious and laymen scraped the hot bricks of the ruins of an older Notre Dame to rebuild immediatelj", they knew this virtue. It was here when "Rock" came, and he absorbed it and used it at its best. 
"Never boast." To "Rock," with all the laurels that were proffered that famous brow, it was always "Notre Dame." And under his guidance the extraordinary success that came to Notre Dame was tempered with this modesty of achievement. 
The temptation to go on in the pages of eulogy that could be justly heaped upon him is sti-ong. 
Alumni, however, are reading in every printed medium the thousands of tributes that have followed his tragic passing. It is the purpose of the ALUMNUS, in the May issue, to gather the outstanding results of this catastrophe into a Memorial Edition that can bring to alumni those things about Knute Rockne that Notre Dame men want to remember. 


TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Volume IX. APRIL, 1931 No. 8 
Alumni HalK^ Is The Name of New Dormitory 
Realization of Former Plans for Old Students Building on Campus Announced; 
"Dillon Hall" Second Selection 
Alumni of Notre Dame, particularly those active before would wish to make use of the building on their visits to 1923 in the interests of the Old Students Hall Fund, will the University." be especially interested in the announcement by the Uni­The term "alumni" has come, in American education, versity that the new residence hall at the comer of Notre to be general for all matriculates of a college who have Dame Avenue and and the Dorr Road drive will be called been graduated or who have left school permanently for Alumni Hall. one reason or another. Hence, 
The University has de­the new term "Alumni Hall" cided upon this recognition is not only more euphonious, of the loyalty and interest of but equally comprehensive^ alumni for several reasons. Another interesting ex­First, at the time of the cerpt from the historical files school's building and endow­of the original fund is found ment drive in 1922, the Asso­in the minutes of the annual ciation turned over to the meeting in 1917: "A motion campaign the sum of sixty was unanimously agreed on thousand dollars (?60,000) that the Old Students' Hall which enabled the University funds be invested in Liberty to complete the arrangements Bonds." The funds at that upon which the gift of the time approximated $20,000. General Education Board was At the next annual meet­conditional. ing, however, the Building 
At the time this gift was 

Committee reported that $25,­made the following resolution 
000 had been loaned to the by William A. Mclnemy, '01, 
University, as a more inmie­was offered and unanimously 
diately worthy project, and approved: 
the meeting ratified the loan and instructed the Treasurer "Be it resolved by the to turn over subsequent funds Notre Dame Alumni Associa­received, when they aggre­tion that all moneys and gated ?1,000, to the Uni­securities in the Old Stu­versity, the rate of interest dents' Building Fund as well being fixed at 4%. Activity as all unpaid pledges to the in soliciting was practically same be turned over to the suspended during the Gov­University of Notre Dame in ernment's appeals for funds use in its Endowment or for the conduct of the war. 
Building Fund as suggested In 1920, the Associatioii in the communication of Rev. 
was on the verge of begin­Father Bums, C.S.C., Presi­ning the erection of the pro­dent of the University. It is posed Hall, but because of understood that by the terms the unsettled conditions in of said letter, the first addi­the building field, no satis­tional dormitory to be con­factory contract could be se­
structed by the University will be known as Old Stu­

REVEREND PATRICK DILLON, C.S.C. cured, and the building was Second President of Notre Dame. ISCC-eS postponed. 
dents' Hall, and shall answer 

the purpose of the building as planned by this Associaiton." 
In the original consideration of the Association of a suitable name for the proposed hall, the following extract is taken from the minutes of the annual meeting of 1915: 
". . . It was decided to call the building Old Students' Hall or some other appropriate name which would embrace all those who had been students at Notre Dame, since they 
In 1922 the University announced its Building and Endowment and Building campaign, with the resultant sacrifice on the part of the Association for the general University welfare. Through the action of the Associa­tion, the University completed the fund which enabled them to secure the General Education Board's conditional gift of $250,000. In addition to the $60,000 in material 
assets transferred at that time, the Association turned over to the Uni­versity some $45,000 in unpaid pledges, not, however, an unmitigated blessing. So ends the story of the rise and 
REV. WM. MALOXEY, C.S.C. 
Former Alunnii Sccrctari/ 
fall of the Alumni Association as a financial power. Individually, alum­ni contributed to the Building and Endowment Fund when it was launched. And individually, since then, alumni have contributed vary­ing amounts to Notre Dame. 
But the Association has resolved itself into more of a mutual, non­profit, organization for the cementing of sound general relationships be­tween Notre Dame and Notre Dame men. The Alumni Office, the Alum­ni magazine, the Clubs and the Classes, have absorbed the amounts received annually from dues. There has not been, until the institution of the Living Endowment Fund this year, any demand made upon alum­ni for contributions to the Univer­sity. 
Considering the much smaller num­ber of alumni ten years ago; consid­ering the intervening war period; considering the lack of the contacts between school and alumni that now exist, the success of that Old Stu­
dents Hall Fund is tribute indeed to 
the older generation of alumni. 
It is primarily this achievement of the "old guard," supplemented by a recognition of a new generation of alumni whose loyalty is as great and whose response to the material needs of Notre Dame will imquestionably be in proportion, that Notre Dame announces "Alumni Hall." 
In the original plans of the Asso­ciation for Old Students Hall, provi­sion was planned for rooms for alum­ni who might visit Notre Dame dur­ing the year. Needless to say, condi­tions have made the realization of this phase of the plan impossible. In the first place, Notre Dame now needs every possible room for student resi­dence space. In the .second place, where one or tivo alumni might hap­pen in in an ordinary school month, now the number of visiting alumni would require hotel proportions for campus accommodation. The Hall, however, will be used for alumni res­idence at Commencement time, and 
VERY REV. J. A. BURNS, C.S.C. 
Leader of the Drive 
the name itself keeps before the stu­dents and the world the appreciation of Notre Dame for her alumni. 
"Dillon" Other Hall 
For years the University has pur­sued the policy of naming the resi­dence halls after deceased Presidents of the University, e. g., Sorin, Corby, Walsh, and Morrissey; after men whose lives were otherwise closely woven with Notre Dame, e. g.. Brown-son, Carroll, Badin, Howard, and Lyons; deviating in the case of two temporary halls with the general des­ignation of Freshman and Sophomore. It is in conformity with the former policy that the second dormitory of the new unit has been named "Dillon Hall," after Rev. Patrick Dillon, C.S.C., who succeeded Father Sorin, 
WARREN A . CAKTIEK 
Old Students' Hall Treasurer 
as the second President of Notre. Dame (1865-66). In the e.\cellent "Golden Jubilee" Historj- of the Uni­versity by Prof. T. E. Howard, the following summary of Father Dillon's career at Notre Dame is given: 
"Much of the prosperity of the time was undoubtedly due to the presence then at Notre Dame of a man of uncommon ability and force of character. Father Patrick Dillon, a young man of twenty-six, became vice-president of the university in 1858, and retained that office, with some intervals, until 1865. During the period while Father Patrick (as he was called, to distinguish him from his brother. Father James Dil­lon, afterwards a chaplain in the army) was vice-president; and dur­ing the year or more thereafter, when he was himself president, great work was done at Notre Dame. Father Patrick was a man of the greatest executive ability and of most excellent judgment; and Father Sorin was well content to leave the charge 
(Continued on Pase 270) 

DILLON HALL ALUMNI HALL 
April, 1331 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
James J. Phelan, Lay Trustee, Awarded Laetare Medal 
Boston Banker, Active in Many Civic and Religious Enterprises, Adds Worthy Name To Illustrious List of Medallists 
Alumni were pleased on Laetare Sunday with the University's an­nouncement of the award of the now famed Laetare Medal to James J. Phelan, a member of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University, and an outstanding figure in national and religious philanthropies. 
In 1883, Notre Dame established this award as the American adapta­tion of the Papal conferring of the Golden Rose on the same day. It has since become nationally recog­nized as the highest honor that can come to a Catholic lay man or woman in this country. The list of Laetare Medallists, as a Catholic paper re­cently commented, presents the best cross-section of lay Catholic achieve­ment in America since its institution. Mr. Phelan's name provides an addi­tion consistent with the previous merits of the awards and the recip­ients. 
When Govemor Frank G. Allen re­cently wanted a man to head the Emergency Committee on Unemploy­ment, he immediately turned to one who had had a wide and diversified e.^perience in banking, general busi­ness, and civic and charitable activ­ities, James J. Phelan, Banker. 
Mr. Phelan was bom in Toronto, Canada, October 14th, 1871. At a very early age his family located in the Charleston district of Boston, where he received his early education in the public schools. 
In the year 1887, Mr. Phelan started his career in the financial world on the Boston Stock Exchange as a page. The following year he entered the employ of Homblower & Page, which firm was succeeded in August 1888 by the partnership of Homblower & Weeks, Mr. Henry Homblower being, as he still is, the senior member. Honorable John W. Weeks, late Secretary of War, was the other member of the partnership at that time. Mr. Phelan was the only employee. From a small be­ginning this concern has grown to be one of the largest and best known in its line throughout this country and Canada. 
In 1897, Mr Phelan became a mem­ber of the Boston Stock Exchange, and in 1900 a member of the partner­ship of Homblower & Weeks. It has been said that he was bom working and he, himself, has said that he is willing to die working. At any rate. 
notwithstanding his business activi­ties and the number of directorates upon which he serves, in emergencies, whether of the City, State, or Nation, he is ready to respond to the call. He has always refused, however, to stand for elective office, and will not take an appointment on paid commissions or permanent commissions. 
MB. JAMES J. PHELAN 

In 1906 at the time of the San Francisco Earthquake, Mr. Phelan became a member of this Committee, sening a large part of the time as Vice-Chairman. Immediately, when the Massachusetts Committee was called into existence the morning after the disaster, he realized that one of the most important things to the people of San Francisco would be hospital service, and arranged for the organization in Salt Lake City of a hospital outfit, composing two cars, which was dispatched that afternoon under Dr. Critchlow to San Francis­co. It was the first relief train to enter the stricken district. The Com­mittee raised over $1,000,000 for re­lief work in San Francisco. 
Mr. Phelan subsequently served on the Ohio Flood Committee, Chelsea Fire Committee, and was Govemor Walsh's personal representative on the Salem Fire Committee where he spent continuously some three months in relief and rehabilitation work in the burned area. He was the first to hear of the Halifax Explosion dis­
aster, immediately brought it to the 
attention of the late Henry B. Endi­
cott. Executive Manager of the Mas­
sachusetts Public Safety Committee, 
organized to meet the emergency of 
the World War, of which Committee, 
Mr. Phelan was one of the Assistant 
Executive Managers. Both Mr. Endi­
cott and Mr. Phelan went at once to 
inform the Govemor of the State, the 
late Samuel M. McCall, of the dis­
aster. The Govemor immediately 
called for volunteer assistance for 
the stricken people of Halifax. This 
was in the morning, and that after­
noon the entire Public Safety Com­
mittee was called into session and 
a relief train was sent that night to 
HaUfa-x. It was the first relief train 
to reach Halifax from any section. 
To Mr. Phelan was then delegated 
the task of raising relief in cash and 
supplies for the City of Halifax, 
which was accomplished in the usual 
generous spirit of the people of Mas­
sachusetts. 
Mr. Phelan organized the New England Saw Mill Unit prior to America's participation in the World War. This was the first contribu­tion from the United States to the World War, and Mr. Phelan person­ally supervised the assembling of the saw mill units, first having raised the necessary cash to defray the ex­pense of the enterpirse. The New England Saw Mill Unit comprised some ten portable saw mills, horses and equipment, as well as a force of several hundred picked woodsmen from New England who went across to England, afterwards giving sim­ilar service in France. 
For twenty-two months Mr. Phelan served at the State House during the War, as Assistant Executive Mana­ger of the Massachusetts Food Ad­ministration. He also served as ar-. bitrator in several labor disputes which occurred during this period, and since has served as arbitrator in various labor disputes over the 
•period of the last twelve years, the last being the so-called "Sling Load" dispute between the Longshoremen and the Steamship Companies, which he decided about a year ago. 
Mr. Phelan was also Chairman of many sub-committees during the War and originated many of the price controls on distribution of commod­ities, such as ice, butter, eggs, ponl­
(Continued on Page 268) 

264 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS April, 1931 


ATHLETICS 
By Joseph Petritz, '32 
BASEBALL 
Schedules for baseball, golf, and tennis were announced in March by the athletic board of control and they, ivith the track schedule, complete the spring sports program for Notre Dame teams. 
The baseball nine, although it will not have a southern trip, will play 15 games, two of which are yet to be named, against representative mid-w^est teams and Hosei of Japan. Wis­consin, Big Ten champion last year with whom Notre Dame divided two games, will open the season here, -A^pril IC, and other games will be played with Iowa, Northwestern, and Purdue of the conference. Only five games will be away from home. 
Coach Geogre Keogan has been working his team indoors for two weeks, and will make his first cut of the squad of 75, after Easter. He has four veterans, Capt. O'Keefe, Sullivan, Askew, and Mahoney, back in the infield, and four of last year's pitchers. Leading the mound men men are LisicW, who has pitched two years without losing a game, Palt, Mannix, and Del Prete. The catcher's job and the outfield positions are open. 
Following is the schedule: 
April 16—^Wisconsin here. 
April 24—Hillsdale here. 
April 27—^lowa here. 
April 29 — Northwestern at Evan­ston. 
May 2—Open. May 5—Purdue here. May S & 9—Hosei of Japan here. May 13—Wisconsin at Madison. May 16—Open. May 19—Northwestern here. May 23—^lowa at Iowa City. May 26—Purdue at Lafayette. May 30—Michigan State at East 
Lansing. June 6—^Michigan State here. 


GOLF 
The golf course includes eight dual matches, only two of which are at Notre Dame, and the Indiana State meet and the national intercollegiate tournament at Olympia Fields, Chi­cago, in June. The entire undefeated 1930 team is back, and another vic­torious season is predicted. Thirty-five candidates are practicing daily in the golf room of the gym. 
Larry MoUer, captain of last year's squad and medalist and finalist in the national intercollegiate, is among the veterans who are back. He was elected president of the national group at the Pittsburgh tourney. Capt. Fran Beaupre and his brother, Russ, both of whom qualified in the national meet, are also returning. Other veterans are Louis O'Shea, Bill Redmond, and Art Bradley. The group, the first team in Notre Dame history, won the Indiana state title. 
The golf schedule is as follows: 
April 11—^Valparaiso there. April 17—^Michigan State at East 
Lansing. April 18—Univ. of Detroit there. April 25—University of Pittsburgh 
there (tentatively). May 1—Loyola at Chicago. May 2—^lowa at Iowa City. May 9—^Michigan State here. May 22—Detroit here. Indiana State tournament. National Intercollegiate tourna­
ment at Chicago. 

April, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 

TENNIS 
The tennis squad will be led by Capt. Matt O'Brien and his twin brother, Mike, veterans of two years. Bill Eeaume and Bob Kendall are other 1930 men returning, while Dick Bailie and John O'Brien of the 1930 team have been lost by graduation. .\n elimination tournament after Easter will provide men for the places of Bailie and O'Brien. A feature of the schedule is the Central Intercollegiate conference meet spon­sored annually by Notre Dame at the Chicago Town and Tennis club. The Ivnute K. Rockne cups will go to the singles and doubles winners. 
The tennis card includes the fol­lowing matches: 
April IS—^Indiana State Teachers at Terre Haute. April 25—Western State at Kala­
mazoo. May 12—^Armour Tech here. May 14, 15, 16—Central intercol­legiate conference at Chicago. 
May 20Loyola of Chicago here. 
May 22 — Northwestern at Evan­

ston. May 30—Michigan State here. 

BASKETBALL 
T^velve victories out of tiventy games was the record of Coach George Keogan's cage squad for the 1930-31 season, completed a little more than a week ago. Not an im­pressive record, one must admit, and probably the poorest since Dr. Keo­gan came to Notre Dame nearly ten years ago. It is difficult to give a cause for the showing, however, and we may justly conclude that there was a combination of difficulties which the more or less inexperi­enced Blue and Gold squad found too great to overcome. 
In the beginning, three great gaps had to be filled. Ed Smith, "Oonie" Donovan, and Jack McCarthy were missing from the previous year, and it was no easy matter to replace them. The first part of the season was spent in experimentation and, as a result, three defeats were on the books before the season was well under way. Kalamazoo was an easy victim, but Northwestern and Purdue proved too much and annexed two run-away games before the Keogan­ites again broke into the win col­umn against Pennsylvania and Illi­nois Wesleyan. Northwestern again conquered the Blue which, by this time, was beginning to show much improvement. A fairly dependable combination had been molded with Newbold, Crowe, and Gavin alternat­ing at forwards, DeCook at center, and Baldwin and Bums at guards. Clay Johnson, too, proved himself a valuable man at the guard position. 
Four victories in a row against Ohio State, Wabash, Marquette, and Pennsylvania, put Notre Dame in a fighting mood for Pittsburgh, but the Panthers won in an overtime game on the local court. Indiana fell victim to the Keogan strategy, but Pittsburgh made it two in a row in another overtime contest at Pitts­burgh. Wabash, Butler, and Army were the next opponents on the Notre Dame card, and all met defeat alike. Syracuse caught the Blue with Bald­win, who by this time had developed into one of the chief cogs on both offense and defense, on the side lines, and administered the sixth defeat of the season to the tiring South Bend squad. 
The Fighting Irish eked out a one-point victory over Marquette in a re­turn game, but closed the season by suffering defeats at the hands of Butler and Iowa university, both of whom they were favored to defeat rather handily. 
Statistics for the season show that Notre Dame outscored her opponents by a mere eight points for the sea­son's play, averaging 24.2 points to the opponent's 23.S. The Blue and Gold outscored the enemy 189 to 169 on field goals, but lost much ground on free throws. The Keoganites av­eraged almost the same as their op­ponents on shots from the foul line, but the enemy was given sixty-one more chances by virtue of Notre Dame's 224 personal fouls to the foe's 176. 
Ray DeCook led the scorers with 132 points, an average of 6.6 per game. He committed more fouls than any of his teammates, 32, but was also the only man on the squad to appear in every game on the sea­son's card. Bill Newbold scored 93 points to take second place among the scorers, and ranked at the top in foul shooting. The elongated forward made 29 out of 42 attempts for an average of .690. Jack Baldwin, flashy guard, made twelve out of twenty free throws and scored 56 points for an average of nearly 4 markers per game. Both Crowe, with 68, and Gavin with 57, outscored Baldwin but failed to come up to his average since they competed in four more games during the year than did the former Englewood star. 
Eight members of Notre Dame's 1930-31 basketball team and John M. Hughes, manager, were awarded ma­jor sports monograms here, March 28, by the athletic board of control. The monogram winners are Johnnie Baldwin, Tom Bums, Norbe Crowe, Ray DeCook, Joe Gavin, Clay John­son, Bill Newbold, and Al Schum­macher. All but Gavin will return ne.\t year. The entire first team of Crowe and Newbold, forwards, De-Cook, center, and Baldwin and Bums, guards, will be back. 

TRACK 
The track schedule stands the same as originally announced with the ex­ception that Wisconsin will appear here in a dual meet April 19, and Notre Dame will not attend the Kansas relays at Lawrence that day. The tracksters -ivill resume workouts after Easter under Coach John Nich­olson. 
The outdoor schedule is as follows: 
jVpril 19—^Wisconsin here. April 24 & 25 — Drake and Penn 

relays. May 2—Ohio Relays at Columbus. May 9—^Navy at Annapolis. May 16 — Indiana state meet at 
Purdue. May 23 — Central intercollegiate 
conference here. May 30—Open. June 7—^N.C-.A._A.. meet at Chicago. 
Coach John P. Nicholson's Blue and Gold tracksters have just concluded a most successful indoor season, and are now awaiting the opening of the outdoor season with greater con­quests in view. Victories were re­corded in dual meets over Butler, and Iowa State, while the Fighting Irish also retained their title in the Central Intercollegiate Conference for the fifth consecutive time. One defeat was suffered in a dual meet, and this at the hands of Harry Gill's Illinois thinlies, who were able to record only the barest margin of vic­tory in the most hotly contested meet of the season. 
Records fell in wholesale fashion, and five new gymnasium marks now rest safely iii the books, at least tm­til next yefar. Four of these marks are held by Notre Dame men while the other was made by Chamberlain, of Michigan State, who broke Gene Howrey's record for the two-mile run. Other new records were set up by Captain Johnnie O'Brien in the 60-yard high hurdles, Alex Wil­
266 THE NOTBE DAME ALUMNITS April, 19S1 
son in the 880-yard run, Ralph John­son in the pole vault, and the mile relay team, •which set a new record for that event in the C.I.C. meet. 
Alex Wilson, blonde Canadian sen­sation, and British 440 champion, had a most successful season, and de­serves a much needed rest before the start of the outdoor campaign. Probably Wilson's most outstanding achievement -was the -winning of the famous "Millrose 600" at New York, but practically every meet in which he competed was featured by his brilliant running, and he assumed the lion's share of the burden because of his versatility in the middle distances. 
Other outstanding performers on Coach Nicholson's squad during the indoor season, were Joe Quigley, Cap­tain O'Brien, Bill McCormick, Bob Darling, "Dutch" Johnson and Gene HowTey. These men were very con­sistent winners all through the sea­son, and are being counted upon to score heavily for the Blue and Gold when the curtain rises for the open­ing of the outdoor season. 
Of the newcomers, Mickey Mac-Beth and Charley Kelly, were, per­haps, the most outstanding. These two, both quartermilers, were just about the mainstays of the one-mile relay team, besides proving very de­pendable men in dual meets. Gough, too, made excellent showings in the niinois and Iowa State dual meets, the chief burden of the broad jump falling upon him when Eoy Bailie was injured. Frankfort, Dilling, and Bonomolo all showed much promise. 
Kenneally to Rutgers 
Announcement was made by Rut­gers University authorities at New Brunswick, N. J., last Thursday, that Tommy Kenneally had been signed as assistant coach for the 1931 sea­son. Tojimiy, who was a quarter­back on the national champions of 1929, served as backfield coach of Johnny Law's Manhattan college gridders last season, and spent his spare time teaching in a New York prep school. 

Mullins Starts Practice 
"Moon" Mullins has started in at his new position as backfield coach at the University of Kansas, Law­rence, Kansas, and now has spring practice imder full swing. Larry finished his college playing career in the Southern California game last December, and was graduated from the University in February. 


Sport Managerships Announced by Knute Roclcne 
Grams; McKean, Weiss, Colville/ Spangenbers and Ross. Are Given Appointments 
The appointment of John Albert Grams, LaCrosse, Wisconsin, a junior in the College of Commerce, as senior manager of football for the 1931 season was announced March 24 during the annual Manager's Ban­quet in the lay faculty dining hall. Coach Knute K. Eockne presided at the banquet and announced, in ad­dition, the managers of the other sports as well as the freshmen and sophomores to be retained for service next year. 

As associates during the 1931 grid season. Grams will have Joseph E. HcKean of Alexandria, Louisiana, and Charles F. Weiss of South Bend. ' Charles E. Spangenberg, Elmhurst, Illinois, was appointed senior mana­ger of basketball, John Joseph Ross, . BrookljTi, New York, will manage the track squad, and John A. Colville, Yonkers, New York, will take charge of the baseball team. These men vrill be assisted by a staff of seven junior managers and three alternates, and fifteen sophomores. 
Coach Rockne was the only speaker on the short program of the evening. Mr. Eockne pointed out, in thanking the managers for their work of the past year, that he could offer no criti­cism, not even constructive, on the manner in which they dispensed their multifarious duties. The past foot­ball season was one of great strain on the managers. The opening of the new stadium was, perhaps, the greatest thing in the athletic history of the University, and the way in which Dan Halpin, Jack Saunders, and Joe Lauerman handled their du­ties left nothing to be desired. 
Coach Eockne also took this oppor­tunity to thank Jack Hughes, mana­ger of basketball, and Bourke Mot-sett, in charge of track, for the ex­cellent work they have done during their seasons. Bob Balfe and Tom Ashe were reminded that the greatest part of their duties was yet to come, and that they were exi>ected to up­hold the standard set by their fellow seniors. 
In making the appointments for the 1931-32 season, Rockne pointed out that there could be no prejudice shown in the selection of the senior managers. The positions carry too much responsibility, and there is far too much at stake for those in charge to pick any but the best men for the appointments. He added, for the ben­efit of those freshmen and sopho­mores who could not be retained, that in life some are better fitted for one station than for another. A fail­ure to achieve one's goal at first should not be an excuse for offering sympathy to one's self or for seeking it from others. Those men who were cut from the staff were, almost with­out doubt, those who could not excel in this line of atcivity. They should, then, concentrate their efforts on suc­cess in some other field. 
At the speaker's table with Mr. Rockne were his assistant coaches, Heartly Anderson, Jack Chevigny, and Ike Voedisch," together with the seven senior managers of this year who were the guests of honor. 
The sophomores who were ap­pointed to junior managerships in­cluded: Baker, Buhl, Fox, Ivenefick, Kenny, O'Keefe and Wirry, with Martin, Sherman, and Shinners as alternates. In appointing the alter­nates, Mr. Eockne e.xpressed the hope that the classification would be only a temporary one, and that these men would, by their diligent work, prove themselves worthy of a full manager­ship during the coming year. 
The freshmen to be retained are: Fischer, Gleichauf, Goldberg, Hanley, Kelly, Kotte, LeSage, Lewis, Mc-Manus, Miller, Mulvihill, Quinn, Roach, Rubin, Stockwell, and Ven­ables. 

Kassis Signs at Colorado 
Tom Kassis, regular guard of the 1930 national champions, has signed to coach the line at the University of Colorado, at Boulder, Colorado, it was announced several days ago. Kassis was graduated from the Uni­versity of Notre Dame in February, and expects to take up his new posi­tion in time for spring practice. At the close of the past season, Tom re­ceived honorable mention on several all-western elevens despite that his play during the season was hampered by injuries. 

April, 1931 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 


Committees Nominate Outstanding Candidates 
1931-32 Officers To Be Chosen From Men Whose Names Are By-Words in Alomni Devel­opment at Notre Dsune; Ballots Go Out in May. 
HONORARY PRESIDENT EE\'. JOHN A. MCNAMABA, '97, Garden City, L. I. (Both Committees). PRESIDENT JOHN W. COSTEIXO, '12, 180 W. Washington St., Chicago. FRANK H . HAYES, '14, 25 N. Dearborn St., Chicago. VICE-PRESIDENT DANIEL L. COUGHUN, '22, Waseca, Minn. CLARENCE "PAT" MANION, '21, Notre Dame, Ind. TREASURER WALTER DUNCAN, '12, LaSalle, 111. (Both Committees). DIRECTOR (4-Year Term) ROBERT E . LYNCH, '03, 113% N. Washington St., Green Bay, Wis. DR. J. 3L TONER, '00, 3197 Sixteenth St., San Francisco, Calif. DIRECTOR (3-Year Term*) JOHN F. O'CONNELL, '13, 160 N. LaSalle St., Chicago. MARCELLUS M. OSHE, '12, Chicago Title & Tmst Co., Chicago. (* Succeeding the late Peter P. McElligott, '02) 
The above slates were nominated by the two nominating committees appointed by President Hering, who were: 
Joseph J. Sullivan, '01, Chicago, chairman; Frank P. Burke, '03, Mil­waukee, and Ray T. Miller, '14, Cleve­land, and 
Joseph Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, 

N. J., chairman; Keene Fitzpatrick, '11, San Francisco, and Henry G. Hogan, '04, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Nominations can be made by in­dividual members, a minimum of twenty-five being necessary for a nomination, not more than ten of whom shall reside in one county. These nominations can be made until April 30. 
In addition to the officers above listed, the Board of Directors of the .A.ssociation has nominated eight can­didates for the alumni positions on the Board of Lay Trustees. These candidates are as follows: 
George M. Anson, Merrill, Wis. Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago Dr. Maurice Ready, New York Angus D. McDonald, New York Gus F. Meehan, Chattanooga Clement C. Mitchell, Chicago Grattan Stanford, New York Francis C. Walker, New York Two of the above nominees will 
fill the normal vacancies occurring this year. Two others will fill the additional alumni memberships created at the last meeting of the Board of Lay Trustees, and the fifth nominee elected, will fill the unex­pired term of the late William P. Breen. 
An amendment to the Constitution of the -Association, making it pos­sible to mail the Ballots earlier, will also be included on the 1931 Ballot. 
All of the above projects are de­serving of the most careful considera­tion. The Officers of the Association are charged with a growing responsi­bility. The Lay Trustees have long since proved their value to the Uni­versity, and the alunmi membership on this Board, which includes an equal number of leaders of industry from the non-Notre Dame world, has been most creditable. 
Any eff'ort to change the Constitu­tion is open to serious thought. This proposed Amendment is the result of changed conditions and the possibili­ties of improving election conditions. 
A short historical sketch of the candidates for the Association offices follows: 
Rev. John A. McNamara, Class Secretary for the Class of 1897, is at present in St. Joseph's Sanitarium, Mt. Clemens, Mich., where ill health has brought him for a part of the past several years. He is heart and soul a Notre Dame man in the finest sense of the word. Ordinarily, he is engaged in parish work in Garden City, L. L 
John W. Costello, attorney with the firm of Samuels, Costello & Green­berg, has long been familiar in alum­ni organization. He is a former pres­ident of the Notre Dame Club of Chi­cago. He was vice-president of the National Association in 1916-17. 

Frank H. Hayes, vice-president and trust oflficer of the Union Bank of Chicago, has played a very important part in the inauguration of the Living Endowment Plan for the University by the Alumni Association. 
(Two Chicago nominees for the presidency of the Association are a tribute from the Committees to Chi­cago's active alumni program.) 
Daniel L. Coughlin, who is in the newspaper business in Waseca, Minn., is very successful there, having just been elected to the vice-presidency of the Minnesota newspaper association. He is a monogram football and bas­ketball man, 1921-22. 
Clarence "Pat" Manion is most popular among alumni as a speaker. He is a professor of law at the Uni­versity, an author, and one of the rising figures on the Indiana political horizon. Pat's all-around talents and wide contacts make biography need­less. 
Walter Duncan, La Salle, 111., in­surance and bank director, has served so well (at the risk of campaigning) as Treasurer of the Association, an increasingly burdensome job, that his nomination by both committees is not surprising. 
Robert E. Lynch, Green Bay, Wis­consin, was one of the most popular baseball players N. D. graduated. He is still the same genial and likable Bobby Lynch, with as much vigor as of old. He has been most active in Fox River alumni organization. 
Dr. J. M, Toner is one of the most prominent Notre Dame men on the Pacific coast. He has held civic office in San Francisco for a number of years, and is at present in charge of all public institutions in the State, living in Sacramento. 
John F. O'Connell and M. M. Oshe, both Chicago men, have been nomi­nated to succeed the late Peter P. McElligott, whose term as. director has three years to run. 
Both candidates have occupied the bench. Judge O'Connell was very popular with members of the bar during his terms, and Judge Oshe is considered one of the outstandinng Chicago authorities on problems of title and trust, acting a .chief title and trust officer at the present time for the Chicago Title and "ftust Co. 
LAETARE MEDAL 

(Continued from Page 263) try, and fish, some of which price controls and distribution methods were adopted nationally. He was re­sponsible for much that brought the increased fish catch, and the substitu­tion of fish for meat, so that suffi­cient meat would be available for shipment to the soldiers in France. 
Mr. Phelan was Emergency Fuel Administrator of Massachusetts dur­ing the years 1922-23, and originated the so-called city and town price con­trol of coal rather than one price for the State, as was attempted in other • States and failed. Mr. Phelan's price control .was subsequently adopted by several of the States who at first at­tempted one price for the entire' State. 
During the war Mr. Phelan served on the Executive Committee for New England on all Liberty Loan Drives, and was chairman of the Victory Loan Drive for the Boston Metro­politan District. 
He was one of the Committee of Eleven of the United War Work Campaign. This organization set as their goal $130,000,000, to be raised throughout the country, and actually raised some 5215,000,000. 
In the year 1925, Boston College conferred the degree of LL.D. upon him. In 1925 Pope Pius XI conferred upon him the decoration of Magistral Knight of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta, the first Layman to receive this honor in the United States and later upon the organiza­tion of the American Chapter, Sov­ereign Military Order of Malta, of which he was elected Master, he re­ceived the higher degree of Grand Cross. 
In 1926, Pope Pius XI conferred upon Mr. Phelan, the honor of Knight Commander of the Order of Pope Pius IX. 
He is also one of the lay Trustees of the University of Notre Dame. Trustee of the Children's Hospital, Director of the Travelers Aid So­ciety, Community Health Associa­tion, and Treasurer of the Disabled Veterans Christmas Remembrance. He is a member of many of Boston's most prominent Clubs, as well as those along the North Shore summer colony where he has a fine estate, and he is also a member of a number of Clubs located at the winter resorts of Florida and of a number of prom­inent New York Clubs. 
The Laetare Medal Committee,, which this year selected Mr. Phelan for the honor, consisted of the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell,, C.S.C. presi­dent of the University, chairman; Rev. Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C; Rev. 
J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C; Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C; Rev. 
Charter Number of The "Juggler" Features Alumni 
The Charter number of the Juggler, featuring contributions by former Funny Fellows, appeared on the cam­pus March 30. The Funny Fellows society, the aim of which is to solidify, strengthen and preserve the spirit of the Juggler, made its formal debut as an active organization with this issue. 
Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C; Prof, James E. McCarthy, Prof. Francis Kenick, Prof. William Benitz, Prof. Clarence Manion, and Prof. Rufus Rauch. 
The list of Medallists to date follows: 
1883 John G. Shea 1884 Patrick J. Keeley 1885 Eliza Allen Starr 1886 General John Newton 1887 Recipient Anonymous 
at His Own Request 1888 Patrick V. Hickey 1889 Anna Hanson Dorsey 1890 William J. Onahan 1891 Daniel Dougherty 1892 Henry F. Brownson 1893 Patrick Donahue 1894 Augustin Daly 1895 Mary Sadlier 1896 Gen. Wm. Rosencrans 1897 Dr. Thos. A. Emmett 1898 Hon. T. E. Howard 1899 Mary G. Caldwell 1900 John A. Creighton 1901 William Bourke Cochran 1902 Dr. John B. Murphy 1903 Chas. J. Bonaparte 1904 Richard Kearns 1905 Thos. B. Fitzpatrick 1906 Dr. Francis Quinlan 1907 Katherine Conway 1908 Jas. C Monaghan 1909 Frances Tiernan 1910 Maurice Francis Egan 1911 Agnes Repplier 1912 Thomas B. Muli-y 1913 Charles B. Herberman 1914 Edward Douglas White 1915 Mary Merrick 1916 Dr. James J. Walsh 1917 William S. Benson 1918 Joseph Scott 1919 George Duval 1920 Dr. Lawrence Flick 1921 Elizabeth Nourse 1922 Charles P. Neill 1923 Walter G. Smith 1924 Charles D. Maginnis 1925 Albert F. Zahm 1926 Edward N. Hurley 1927 Margaret Anglin 1928 Jack Spalding 1929 Alfred E. Emith 1930 Frederick Kenkel 1931 James J. Phelan 
K. K. Rockne and the Four Horse­men are among the honorary mem­bers. 
The cover has the sentimental and slightly subtle significance that the "old-timers" are once more donning the mask. A cartoon of the late Dick Harrington wordlessly says many things of a typical campus moment. A number of other contributors are accounted for in the column Campus Chatter. Alfred E. Smith, who is very busy with the tallest building in the world, sent in four sentences of con­gratulations. Walter Hugh Layne in a column recalls names and incidents of his Funny Fellow days and in an­other, the undergraduate positions of some now famous magazine names. 
Lawyers Secure Garrlgan's 

According to an annuoncement made this week by Joseph Guadnola, chairman of the Lawyers' ball, Jimmy Garrigan and his orchestra has been engaged for the dance, which will be held in the Palais Royale ballroom April 24. Garrigan and his band have attained more than ordinarj­popularity as performers at the Via Lago cafe in Chicago. He is well known to radio fans, having broad­cast over station WMAQ nightly for the past two years, in addition to giving several programs over the 
N.B.C. network. 
Chairman Guadnola is being con­fronted with a pressing demand for tickets, and is of the opinion that the quota of 350 will be filled the first week they are put on sale. Stu­dents other than lawyers who wish to attend the dance may get tickets from the law students, who are en­titled to two each. Upon presenta­tion of the ticket to William O'Malley, 328 Sorin Hall, a "sum­mons written in legal form, will be sent to the women guests of the ball. The ticket sale will begin either im­mediately before or after the Easter 
Rockne Memorial Issue in May 

April, 1031 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
IIIIIIIKIIIIIItlllllllllllllll 


EDITORIAL^ 
IlllllllMllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllillDllll iillllltltiiiiiiiiiiiiintllilliitiiiiillllllintlllMllltHIIHiilHIIIinUMMIIIMIItttlllMIIUIIKtllllltlllinillMUHIIHtlMtg 
Q..,, 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT 
Once each year men of the Christian world celebrate Christmas, the birthday of a new spiritual life. 
Once a year Americans celebrate the 4th of July, the birthday of a nation. 
And once each year Notre Dame men celebrate Uni­versal Notre Dame Night, in commemoration of the years of sen-ice Notre Dame has given to her alumni and stu­dents, and in honor of the religious and intellectual achievements and stimulus the University has contributed to American Catholic education, a spiritual birthday party for the alumni. 
This year marks the Eighth Annual Universal Notre Dame Night. Such a world-wide observance is peculiarly adapted to Notre Dame, whose alumni, comparatively few in number, are, scattered widely throughout this and foreign countries. The result of this situation has been a consistent increase in the significance of the Night as a Notre Dame institution. 
From a spontaneous, simultaneous effort to focus our o«Ti and the world's attention upon the campus, the Night has become a favorite fixture in the alumni pro­gram. It has grown in extent and intensity. 
Results have been far-reaching. It has brought men close to Notre Dame in the only way that the circum­stances of many of them permit. It has carried Notre Dame men and messages to distant places, by personal pilgrimage, by films, by radio, or by printed word. And frequently, where the magic wand of the Night has touched an unfertile bit of distant ground, a Club will rise and flourish. Notre Dame, for the numerical strength of its alumni group, has one of the most ex­tensive systems of Local Alumni Clubs among the Amer­ican colleges and universities. It is the purpose of the new Local Alumni Club Council to direct this tremen­dous potential power for maximum mutual benefits. 
In the seven years since the first Universal Notre Dame Night, many things have happened at Notre Dame. The public, of course, was made immediately familiar with Notre Dame in 1924 when the Four Horsemen took the football world by storm and practically removed foot­ball from a purely sports category to a broader field whei'e society, business, education, and even religion, have come to play a part. Two more national champion­ships since 1924 have continued this interest of the pub­lic in the side of Notre Dame expressed through its foot­ball teams. While this is sound and wholesome and an integral part of Notre Dame life, as every Notre Dame man knows, it is nevertheless only a part. The result has been a part-picture of Notre Dame before the public. 
No one is more qualified to supplement this part until the entire Notre Dame is depicted than Notre Dame alumni. The public relations problem of the University is, of course, important and mil undoubtedly be solved, but a source on the campus from which information comes can do only a fractional part of the constructive forming of public opinion necessary for a real appre­ciation of Notre Dame. 
A man is known by the company he keeps. A. college is known by the alumni it graduates. Publicity, as it exists among American institutions, is under more or less of a cloud, and unless it is supplemented by the personal contact that, in the case of the colleges, comes from an informed alumni body, it can do a college little good. 
Notre Dame men have been asked for so little in the \yay of material support, money or time, and service, in the eighty-nine years of the University's existence that the response in these, more recent years, when the needs of Notre Dame have grown beyond the provision of that living endowment represented by the unremuneratcd sen-ices of the Religious, is comparati%-ely commendable. 
On this Universal Notre Dame Night, both University and alumni can look at each other with mutual pride. The Alumni have made good. It is no mere generality or e.xaggerated boast to express that statement here. The first principle of the material side of education at Notre Dame, established by Father Sorin and fostered by the Fathers since that time, is "Give the poor boy a chance." Notre Dame's cost of education are approxi­mately half that of private institutions of similar size and academic prestige. It is estimated that the Univer­sity assumes 75% of the cost of educating a student at Notre Dame. 
With this principle, attracting as it did boys of humble families, the fact that Notre Dame now has rep­resentative leaders in every field of life is evidence enough that the alumni have made good. 
The University, starting in a wilderness eighty-nine • years ago, with a capital of three hundred dollars and a personnel of one priest and six brothers, has also fought a good fight and kept the Faith. 
Five Colleges, all of them ranking well academically, headed by prominent faculty members, comprise the Uni­versity. In physical expansion, just since the institution of Notre Dame Night, three beautiful dormitories are complete and in service; a new Dining Hall serves the entire student body, itself doubled in number, at one sitting; a new Law Building is among the architectural gems of the campus; a new Stadium provides a fitting setting for the national football champions; and at the present time two splendid dormitory buildings are being erected, one dedicated to the Alumni, and ground is soon to be broken for the new Edward N. Hurley College of Commerce building, the first private gift of an entire building to be announced. 
Notre Dame is thriving. 
Notre Dame alumni are thriving, the depression to the contrary notwithstanding. 
This should be the most universal of Universal Notre Dame Nights. 
270 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS April, 1931 
"ALUMNI HALL" 
(Continued from Page 262) 
of affairs in the hands of so capable a lieutenant. It was the period when Notre Dame passed from the time of inexperience, and trial, and youthful hope, to the time of full maturity and vigor. Not only were students in­creased in number, and financial mat­ters placed on a surer footing; but views for the conduct of the affairs of the institution were, in proportion, liberalized and enlarged, and the uni­versity better adapted to the needs of the country. 
"Father Patrick, greatly aided by Professor Lucius G. Tong, his able assistant, and who continued the work after his untimely death, en­larged and completed the develop­ment of the commercial courses of the university. There was then an urgent demand manifested for edu­cated young men in commercial pur­suits, and Notre Dame, in complying with this demand, soon began to send these graduates in large numbers. This development of the commercial course was of the utmost value to the university at that time; and the superior character of the young men graduated did much to make the in­stitution known, and to bring in a high class of students also for the other collegiate courses. 
"Under Father Patrick, and for similar reasons, was the first estab­lished and developed the scientific course of studies, as distinguished from the classical course. Before this time the sciences were taught in connection with the learned lan­guages, and degrees were awarded only in the classical course. In ad­dition to the degrees of Arts and Masters of Arts, were now, there­fore, given the degrees of Bachelor of Science and Master of Science. The first graduate to receive the de­gree of B.S. was Dr. John Cassidy, now the accomplished physician, of South Bend, who took his degree in 1865. 
"In this connection also a begin­ning was made in the study of Medi­cine under the Rev. Father Neyron, then a resident clergyman, formerly pastor at New Albany, Indiana. Father Neyron had been a skillful and learned physician before he be­came a priest. He was a surgeon in Napoleon's army, and participated in the Russian campaign, and also at Waterloo where he was captured by the British. 
"But the greatest work done under the administration of Father Dillon, considering the wonderful executive ability and adniirable business talent shown by him, was. the erection of the new college in 1865. In June the old building was taken down, and by September the new one was ready for the students. There was a multi­tude of workmen during the summer, and the work done was a marvel, in excellence no less than in quantity, yet everything moved like clock-work under the direction of the master mind in charge. 
"The building thus erected was 160 feet in length, 80 feet in width, and six stories high, surmounted by a colossal statue of NOTRE DAME, On the 31st of May, 1866, the new edifice was dedicated and the statue blessed by Archbishop Spalding, of Baltimore, assisted by five bishops and a great number of priests, and in the presence of the largest concourse of people ever gathered at Notre Dame. 
"Soon after the dedication of the new Notre Dame, Father Dillon, as if his life work were done, retired frpm the presidency of the Univer­sity which he had so greatly honored, and going to France to attend a gen­eral Chapter of the Congregation, was afterwards promoted to the posi­tion of Assistant General, He re­mained in France for two years, after which he returned to America, filling for a short time the position of pastor of St. Patrick's Church in Chicago, where he died after a short illness, November 15, 1868, He was one of the great men of Notre Dame," 
The naming of these two beautiful new dormitories combines the value of Notre Dame's glorious history and tradition in the connotation of Father Dillon's career, and the creditable past and even more significant future of Notre Dame's alumni. 
Father Dillon comes from a distin­guished family long associated with Notre Dame and St, Mary's, His brother, Rev, James Dillon,. C.S,C,, was a Civil War chaplain, and an­other brother, Michael, was a student at Notre Dame. A younger sister, Margaret Dillon, was a graduate of St. Mary's in 1867, and another sis­ter became Sr. Ligouri Dillon, St, Mary's 1872, Angela Dillon Connor, St, Mary's 1880, was the daughter of Michael Dillon, She has three young­er sisters, Agnes Dillon Makens, '83, Mary Therese Dillon McCarthy, '87, and Anne Dillon Humpfer, '94, Mrs, Connor's children are Margaret Con­nor Welch, '11; Msgr, F. F. Connor; Angela Connor Curry, '14, (wife of Thomas B, Curry, N.D. '14); Anne Dillon Connor Brawn, '15; Sr, Angela, C.S.C; Benedict Connor, former NJJ, student; John V, Connor; and James Connor. There are, in addition, nine grandchildren. 
Killed With Rockne 
The ALUMNUS extends to Charies J, Eobrecht, '24, and the Robrecht family, the sincerest sympathy of the Alumni Association upon the death of Charley's father, C, A, Robrecht, who was killed in the fatal plane crash in Kansas, which took the life of Knute Rockne and six other persons, Mr, Robrecht was flying to the bedside of a daughter in Texas who was ill. He was a resident of Wheeling, W, Va, Charley is now living in Eliza­beth, N, J, 
Original Play Presented 
"The Ghost of Thomas Sloop," Richard Sullivan's Mitchell award play of 1930, was presented Thurs­day and Friday, March 26 and 27 by the University players in Washing­ton Hall, 
The production is a fantastic melo­drama with a more or less obvious moral, and it is done in a pleasing and entertaining manner. The script was well handled, while the organiza­tion and sequence of the play was ex­pertly managed. Presented as the first all-Notre Dame production—^writ­ten, acted, and arranged by students— it is deserving of praise, 
Richard Sullivan has written a fine play. It is a play that speaks well for the winners of the Mitchell award. The players did not lack an ample script for their efforts, Mr, Sullivan is the third to win the William Mitchell award for playwriting at Notre Dame. He is now studying at the Art Institute in Chicago and at the Goodman theatre of the same city. 
Prof. Frank Kelly contributed his always able direction. 
Reunions Combine 
With the various Class Reunions and the General Law Reunion sched­uled for Commencement, June 5, 6, and 7, the ALUMNUS is pleased to report the activities of the Law Grads of several of the Reunion Classes in seeking to gain full benefits from both events. Several other Classes, not officially holding a reunion, are urging the Lawyers to be on deck, and the rest of the Class to come and rejoice with the barristers. 
-411 in all, it looks as though Chair­man Pat Manion is going to pack them in for the Law events, and as though the rest of the group will provide a full supplement. Which is as it should be. 

April, 1931 THENOTKEDAMEALUMNUS 
Universal Notre Dame Night 
Is April 20th 

All Clubs Will Pay Tribute to K. K. Rockne 
» ».» 

The ALUMNUS Announces . 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME MORNING 
Sunday, April 19 

All Notre Dame Men Will Go To Mass and Offer Up Holy Communion For the Repose of His Soul 
Local Alumni Clubs Are Urged to Attend Mass and Communion in a Body. 
(The above announcement comes as the result of similar requests from alumni every­where. It is heartily endorsed by Eev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., and the priests of Notre Dame. This is the announcement. Its fulfillment is, of course, a matter entirely in the hands of the individual. But it would be Notre Dame's greatest tribute to another Notre Dame man.) 
M€PE PERSCNALITIES AMCNS TfriE CLEIES 
DON P. O'KEEFE. Mr. O'Keefe is the new President of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit, thoujih not new in the activities of that or-Kanization. He has been a factor in its jirowth smd deveJopmeni from the bejrinninK. and his present honor is a rccoCTiition of his services. He is an executive of the Chevrolet branch of General Motors and the Notre Dame Club of Detroit ouRht to run without a knock under his experienced guidance. Mr. O'Keefe was at Notre Dame in that active period of 1901-0-i, and, like so many men of that time, has kept the Notre Dame spirit very much alive since. His address is Chevrolet Motor Co., General Motors BIdp., Detroit. 
DR. DANIEL L. SEXTON. Dr. Sexton. like a number of N. D. men in the medical pro­fession, took his pre-medic work at Notre Dame and finished in St. Louis. As secretarj' of the Notre Dame Qub of St. Louis he has been particularly effective in keeping this con­tact both close and pleasant. The secretarial duties of a Club are not the most enjoyable, and a doctor, whose business hours are as many as the clock offers, deserves special men­tion for his scr\'ices. Dr. Sexton was at Notre Dame in 1919-20. He has ofHccs in the University Club Bldg. in St. Louis. 
JOSEPH B, MURPHY. Four terms as president of an organization can mean only one thine—satisfied constituents. The Notre Dame men in Dayton are just fundamentalists enouizh to know that Mr. Murphy is a jrooil president and to keep him in that position accordinsly. Mr. Murphy is a lawj-er. (Mur­phy, Leen and Murphy), with offices 309-15 Mutual Home Bldtr. He was f;mduatcd from Notre Dame with the Class of 1911. A srad-* uate of the ?!ec club and the dramatic society, aided and abetted by natural Hibernian talent and the Hoynes ColleRc of Law. the success­ful leadership and conduct of the Da>-ton alumni affairs is no mysters*. 
JOSEPH A. McNAMARA. Young men not only see visions in this modem era,—they go out and make them real. Mr. McNamara is one of the busiest young graduates of the Uni­versity. He is President of the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis, Secretary of the Class of *29, and incidentally finds time to be one of the rising young attorneys of that metropolis. An alumnus of the College of Law, the Scrib­blers, the Wranglers, the varsity debating team, a former editor of the Juggler. Mr. McNamara combines a lot of qualities that are resulting in a very progressive Club life for the Hoosier capital, and the advancement of Notre Dame's interests In that important city. 
CYPRIAN SPORL. Mr. Sporl is another younK alumnus whose activities as Secrotao* of the Louisiana-Mississippi Club have aided that orKaniration in expanding its work and its prestijre in the noighborhoo<l of New Or­leans. Graduated with the Cla.ss of '28, Mr. Sporl is in the insurance business in New Orleans, address the Whitney-Central BIdjr. He had excellent preparation for Club activi­ties in school, having acted as president of the Louisiana-Mississippi Club on the camj)us, and president of the Lawyers' Club. Beginning as the Notre Dame Club of New Orleans, the activities soon attracteil neighboring alumni, with the larger territorial title resulting. 
JOSEPH A. MENGER. Being a Classmate, anything the Editor says about Joe will prob­ably be held against both of us. But in the same manner as Joe's family paper, the Southern Messenger, is the official voice of everything in Texas but the K. K. K., .so Joe has been the staunch voice of Notre Dame. until the Texas deserts aj-e blooming with Notre Dame fans. Joe has been supported by as loyal a group of Texas confreres as ever defended an Alamo, and the great Southwest*s Notre Dame-mindedness is not just incidental to an occasional hurried trip by the football team. Joe's Class is '25, his address 107 Cath­erine Court, San Antonio. His family were pioneers. 
April, 1931 THE NOTBE DAME ALUMNUS 
3Tt1EI2 PEI2XCNALITIEX AMCNS TfriE CLUCX 
JAMES H. BRENNAN. Mr. Brennan is president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicajro. This is, with all due credit to other Clubs, the biKi^cst Club job in the list at present. Jim is in the insurance business, and when a larpe Kroup of men deliberately expose themselves to the leadership of an insurance man. it is a tribute indeed to his personality. Jim has been, durinc the eleven years he has been away from Notre Dame, active in the Club, his name usually beinji amonjr the officers. He has insurance offices at 111 W. Monroe, and a family and home in River Park. Activities of the Chicajio Club under his leadership al­ready autnir a continuance of the hiKh stand­ards of achievement of that oruanization. 
^Hi "'se^i^^^^^H 
^^•t^.' '.-%'iV^!^^^^ ^^H.. • i.K-'r.jitf^^^^m^^ . .•-.-:-.»^Vj^^^ 

ml --ii?«^'^-: ^^^^ H ^ ^ •• V,C':^iNN:^^-,^^^-'^^^^ H 
1 ^T- , ••i?^cr-.r. -.-a^^^^^^^ 
I'>.;.v^;$m^^^H 
-' ".''^ J!::%jFJ9'C ILI^^^^^^^^^^^^ H 
-3iijHi^- -; .^^I^^^^^^^H :' '-4?^^r^^^^^^^^^H v-^^r ^^^^^^^1 
;'il ><inl 1 ^^^^^^^^1 
H i&Sr ^^^^^^^ 
•••'-"^^ 

i •. J?!^ 
C. NORBERT BAGUN. Mr. BaKlin is President of the Notre Damb Club of Roches­ter. Notre Dame is as stronir in Northern New York as are many of the collcses much closer as j-eography coes. The answer can be found in the alumni activities that form a chain alonir the main line of the New York C-cntral. Important amouR these is Rochester. Norb succeeded to an administration that involves active local affairs and contacts with a strong student trroup on the campus. He has continued the constructive and co-operative work which was so well beffun. and the Club stands out as one of the very active centers of alumni activity, despite comparatively few mt-mbers. He is an attorney, 902 Wilder Bldff. 
JOHN P. HURLEY, air. Hurley is Presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of Toledo. From the time that he and Ray Cunninsham led a powerful Toledo campus organization to the disputed heights of campus club popularity, John has been prominent as a To(edo-Notre Dame man. While that first triumph was questioned, there is no question in the present ascendancy of the Notre Dame Qub of Toledo. The alumni there represent the things that have made Notre Dame prominent and popular in the real senses of the words. John travels for the ToIe<]o Parlor Furniture Co.. lives at 1420 Collinfr^vooil Ave., visits Notre Dame fre­quently, and is a member of the Gass of 1925 —sic scntpcr! 
HON. WILUAM J. GR^VNFIELD. Mr. Granfield is President of the Notre Dame Club of Connecticut Valley. He is also the present representative of the Second JFassachusctts District in the United States ConRress. Bill, or "Peaches" to use a student nickname, was a monofrram man in basketball and baseball. captaining the former his senior year. His lejraJ career has been equally brilliant, and his first term as a lesislator has been outstand­insly to his credit. Notre Dame's strencth in the Connecticut Valley has been steadily on the increase, and has Rained much from his leadership and example. His Class is '13. 
EUGENE KANE. Jlr. Kane (Ohio seems to lean toward the Kanes) is President of the Notre Dame Club of Gcvcland. Since this august organization made "thunderffust" on the first Universal Notre Dame Night. Cleve­land has been a consistent center of Qub activities. Gene Kane is a capable leader of this active group. As manatrer of the Bulkley Building garage he is centrally located and in regular touch with many of the Qub mem­bers. Gene was graduated with the Gass of 1914, a C.E.. and saw a lot of service with the engineers in France during the war years following. 
JOHN J. KANE. JR. Mr. Kane is President of the Notre Dame Club of Youngstown. Last on the list, it is well up in the van of active Clubs. It is small numerically, and somewhat isolated geoExaphically, but whenever Notre Dame has needed representation in that par­ticular spot in Ohio, it has had it. The present President was trained in an able and active political school on the campus and his leader­ship is an obvious recognition of his qualifica­tions. "Red" is one of Youngstown's younger barristers, and his shingle is hung in the loftier heights of the First National Bank BIdg. 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS April, 19S1 
Rocicne Memorial Fund Committee Organized 
As a result of nation-wide demands, Frank E. Hering^ President of the Alumni Association of the University, in co-operation with Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, President of the University, has led a movement among the friends of Khute Rocbne, including a number of prominent alumni, to take steps to erect a suitable Rockne Memorial. 
Donations from scattered parts of the country have already been received by Father O'Donnell, and many expressions indicate a very active anticipation of this project. 
At the time the ALUMNUS goes to press, the Committee, which will be nation-wide In its scope, has not yet been announced. Alumni will of course be given every opportunity to participate, individually and by Clubs. 
No funds will be solicited. The Committee will simply receive those voluntary contributions which the thousands of friends of Rock very evidently wish to, and intend to, give. 
. At the present writing, it Is the thought of the Committee organizers that the form of the Memorial should be guided by the resources avail­able from contributions and by the wishes of the contributors. 
DISTRIBUTION OF STUDENTS BY STATES 
I930--1931 
T. 

/  °^.  7  \  '9 Wvo.  1 f^-D­/ 8Js.o.  JMINN^"^— j Z' i 31 / w  /M^-J) fix/  
7  1 lO NEB! IOWA\  V  VJg<.MA5S. r3<rR.i.7  
.  eo  ^ILL-JTMO. OHIO  iJ^L-A  
X-n.j. 101­ 
16  1 KANS. 1 IS  "\MO . \ 46  3£__/ f~o.c. s S  
\ _  /  ^  /  N.M. 2  j1  1 OKLA. L '®  ]ARK. 1 6 /MUS  ie__Xf  —>^y  

1—r;:tv.s.c. y^ 
TEXAS 

2X3 V* 
) l-A. ) 5 TROM OTHER C0UNTEIE5Sr~~^ 
29 

z5-^-\_^r^?J*-\ CANADA 10 PANAMA a ^^ •2-s^ J 8\ CANAL ZONE 2 PHILIPPINES 6 CHINA 1 SO.AM£eiCA + CUBA Z SPAIN a n/IEXICO 9 TOTAL eNROLLMeUT 3227/iL/ISKA 1 PALeSTINC 1 \^ 
1 

April, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Alumni RELIGIOUS SURVEY Under Way 
If early returns are indicative of York on the east and Nebraska on cinnati, West Bend, Wise., Utica, the general popularity of the Eeli-the west. Chicago led the field with Keedsburg, Wise, Vicksburg, Miss.,­gious Survey of the Alumni, the ini­41 questionnaires. South Bend was Waukegan, Tiffin, O., Brooklyn, Val­tial effort in this field will be a de­next with 11, Indianapolis and Fort ley City, N. Dak., Robinson, Dl., Mil­cided success. Five hundred replies Wayne contributed 6 each, and De­waukee, Pipestone, Minn., Ogallala, will- give a substantial picture of the troit 5. Other localities represented Nebraska. spirituality of Notre Dame's gradu­are as follows: Dixon, Dl., Vincennes, 
According to graduation years, the ates; seven hundred and fifty will Anderson, Gary, Elgin,, Cleveland, answers were as follows: tax the capacity of the editor. Toledo, Mishawaka, Notre Dame, 
One hundred and thirty-eight re­Niles, Grand Bapids, Kock Island, Group I—Before 1906 , 11 
.Group n —1906-1911 _
plies were received during the first Painesville, 0., Pittsburgh, Ottawa, . 10 
six days after the questionnaires 111., Crown Point, Battle Creek, Ra­Group m —1912-1917 - 16 
Group IV—1918-1925 ^-. - 50 were mailed out. The geographical cine, New Buffalo, Sandusky, Mans­
distribution of the replies is thor­field, Winnetka, Jackson, Mich., Ak­Group V—1926-1930 - 47 
oughly representative of the alumni ron, St. Paul, Minn., Greenfield, Iowa, The Survey Questionnaire follows. —^making allowance for the fact that CTearfield, Pa., Dubuque, Buffalo, Me­If you have not yet sent yours in in the mail had only just reached New nominee, New York, Muscatine, Cin­Father O'Hara, do so. 
1.
 Check the year-group which contains your graduation year: Before 1905; 1906-1911; 1912-1917; 1918-1926; 1926-1930. 

2.
 What is your occupation or profession? (State in general terms only) 

3.
 Check the group which shows approximately your annual income: Below |3,000; 13,001-55,000; 55,001-|7,500; §7,501-$12,000; above $12,000. 

4.
 Are you a married man, a widower, or a bachelor? ­

5.
 What has been your contact with Notre Dame since your graduation? 

6.
 Has the Religious Survey of the students interested you?­

7.
 What impression have you of the spiritual life of the present students ?_ 


Of their character?-Have you had much opportunity to judge 
these things? 

8.
 How often do yoa receive Holy Communion?. 

9.
 When did you last receive? 

10.
 About how often did you receive when you attended Notre Dame? . 

11.
 What other devotional practices do you follow regularly? 

12.
 To which Catholic societies do you belong?. 

13.
 Are you well acquainted with your pastor?-. With your Bishop?. 

14.
 Has your pastor afforded you any opportunity to assist him in parish activities?. If so, to what extent have you responded? 

15.
 Check the Catholic activities in which you have taken part since graduation: Teaching catechism; spreading Cath­olic literature; soliciting fundsfor Catholic charities, for Catholic education; speeches or lectures on Catholic topics; sick committees; , 

16.
 What percentage of your net income have you devoted to charity the last 12 months?— 

17.
 Do you subscribe to any Catholic newspapers? Magazines?. Do you read them regularly?. 

18.
 Who is your favorite Catholic author? 

19.
 How do you keep posted on current Catholic thought?. 

20.
 What have you done to spread the faith?. 

21.
 Have you ever had occasion to defend the faith?. If so, how did you acquit yourself? 

22.
 Was your college instruction in religion adequate for your later needs?. If not, what points would yon suggest for stressing? 

23.
 Since leaving Notre Dame have you done anything to foster frequent Communion?. 


% 
276 THENOTBEDAMEALUMNUS April, 1931 
24.
 Has contact with the world weakened or strengthened your Catholic ideals? 

25.
 Have you found the faith an obstacle to your material advancement? 

26.
 What feature of your religious life of Notre Dame strengthened your character most while you were in school? 

27.
 To what extent have your religious convictions led yon to sacrifice?­

28.
 Have you influenced any Catholic young men to go to Catholic colleges? 

29.
 Have you been conscious of your duty as a Catholic college man to give good example to others?. 

30.
 In the light of your present experience would you say the discipline was too strict or too lax in your time?­In what particular could it be improved? 

31.
 What particular achievement of your spiritual life has been the source of greatest satisfaction to you?_ 

32.
 Have you done anything to correct wrong attitudes of the press on Catholic questions?. On moral problems? 

33.
 In your recollections of your religious life at Notre Dame, for what are you most grateful?. 

34.
 What could Notre Dame do now to further your spiritual life? 

35.
 What has been the outside world's opinion of Notre Dame men with regard to: 

1.
 Initiative? 


2.
 Leadership in parish affairs?. 

3.
 Leadership in civic affairs?. 



36.
 What justice do you think there is in the criticism that Catholic college graduates are not the leaders they should be? 

37.
 What question would you want asked in another Religious Survey of the alumni? 

38.
 Eemarks: 



For Married Men and Widowers 
1.
 Is your w^ife a Catholic? A convert? 

2.
 With how many children has God blessed your union? 

3.
 Have they had Catholic schooling? 


4.
 How^ often do your children attend the Sacraments?. 

5.
 Do you have any family prayers in your home?. 

6.
 Have you done anything in your community to correct loose popular notions of marriage? 

7.
 What provision should a recent graduate of Notre Dame make for a happy marriage?. 


For Bachelors 

1.
 Are you courting a Catholic girl? : 

2.
 How soon do you expect to marry?. 

3.
 What have you read on the Catholic ideals of marriage?. 

4.
 Have your views on marriage changed much since your undergraduate days?. 

5.
 What provision are you making for a happy marriage?. 


April, 19S1 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
fJliiiiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiii«iiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiHiitniiiii>mminmiiini*niiim»n«iiiiiininiiiiiiii«HMiiiiiiinfc«iiiMin»iim 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
ISIiimiiiiimiimmimtiiiiniiiiininimiiiiiitiiimiiiimiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiii llllltlllllMIIIDtllllllllllllllllllUllllllltllllllUlllltHlMIIIUIl 
ALBANY 
A meeting of the Board of Gover­nors was held at the home of John 
J. Huether, President of the Club, and arrangements completed for a dinner at the Van Curler Hotel, Schenectady, on April 20. The Club assures one hundred percent partici­pation of members to be added to the quota of the alumni in all parts of the .world to enjoy this night. 
ARIC4.NSAS 
Burt Roberts, Secretary of the Club of Arkansas, rushed in some notes concerning the members of the Club: 
"Since writing you this morning, I drifted into the office of Twomey Clifford of the Class of '14, who is laboring in this town of Camden, and is said to be hard on bootleggers and horse thieves. (Twomey CliflTord is Camden's Prosecuting Attorney). I am now in his oflJce and in s^vapping subway yams and going over other notorious escapades of other days with him, I learned a few items of interest that might fit in the coming number of the ALUMNUS. 
Art Carmody is now Vice-President of the North Texas Central Oil Com­pany, headquarters in Shreveport, territory all of the Southwest. Art's brother Mike is now located in the new East Texas oil fields, trading cows and automobiles for oil leases and royalties. Matt Eqthert of the Class of '24 is here in Camden. He is the same old smiling Matt, and is manager of a furniture factory that is actually running all the time. Billie Hendriks who spent last year at Notre Dame is earning some extra money to return to school next fall. He is doing some amateur boxing, and recently appeared on a card at Little Rock with Max Schmelling, our foreign world hea\'y swinger. Billie copped the welter weight med­al at school last year. Jimmy Swift, formerly of Camden is now practic­ing law in Dallas. Jimmy is mar­ried. 

Best of luck. Twomey wishes to be remembered to you and his friends at Notre Dame. 
Sincerely yours, 
Burt L. Roberts, Secy. 
BOSTON 

The Notre Dame Club of Boston is planning on a big party for Univer­sal Notre Dame Night. Pat Cohen, Taunton, Mass., sends in this encour­aging news: 
"April 20 is going to be a big night in Boston. Charlie Baine, Pres., Dr. Lynch, Secy., and I are planning for a gala night. A Club meeting to be held •with dinner and dancing follow­ing . . . The Notre Dame Club of Boston is growing and in time will be THE Club." Pat requests Notre Dame songs. Club By-Laws, Club suggestions, et cetera, et cetera. With the Notre Dame contingent in Har­vard joining forces with the Bos­tonians the Night should be a BIG success. 
BUFFALO Dear Jim: 
Yesterday was a day that none of us will ever forget. It almost seems unbelievable that Rock will not be with us any more. 
All our plans for Notre Dame Night have been changed, and al­though this is not authentic I am sure that our night will be a testi­monial to the memory of Rock. 
Gene Oberst is getting plenty of publicity, and he is well established in our old city. We hope he stays, and that he has many successful years at Canisius College. 
Saw Joe Braunsdorf yesterday: said his brother Bill was seriously thinking of getting married. Bill was in our class, and seemed sane. 
I have to give Vince Hanrahan an­other break — he has at last decided to settle down and make BuflFalo his home and then to show that he.has many many brains he decided to go into the life insurance business. Phoenix Mutual gave him a break, and now there are three Notre Dame fellows up in this office, so the Notre Dame Club should never be in want of good life insurance advice. Vince is very hopeful expecting that next year being leap year he will have the opportunity of a life time — an­swering that age old question in the aiBrraative. 
Saw Max Kazus the other day. Things are coming his way. You he is the big shot in the income tax office. He gets money, letters, bricks and is often called well you know what you have called the in­come tax man, and Max gets the same here. 
John Uebbing is still selling bonds to the wealthy of our community, and John does right by them. Joe and Ben his younger brothers, who at­tended N. D. for one year, are think­ing of returning and keeping the Uebbing name before the public as of old. 
A\ Boehm and Ed Lutz are now ready to take on all comers in ping pong. They have acclaimed them­selves as the white hopes in this strenuous game. Send on your best, Buffalo will back these two athletes to the limit. 
Ed Jenkins was up in the ofSce the other day. He is still as fat and sassy as ever. John Byrne and fam­ily are well and kicking right along; saw them myself, so this is authentic. 
CHICAGO Dear Jim: 
It appears that Jack Scallan got swamped in the -work for his Univer­sal Notre Dame Night celebration, and so I am rushing you these few notes relative to the Chicago group: 
Universal Notre Dame Night Com­mittee is headed by Scallan, and has the following members: James R. Martin, William Connors, William Dailey, Norman Feltes, Richard Nash, Robert Stephan, Thomas Walsh, Clif­ford Noonan. The affair will be a dinner at the Drake Hotel, in the Gold Room, with Father Charles O'Donnell, as speaker and principal guest of honor. Father O'Donnell's talk will be broadcast over station WGN at about 9:45 or 10:00 o'clock with Quin Ryan officiating. Many prominent leaders in civic life are expected to be our guests. 
QUAD WRANGLES, the monthly paper issued by the club, has as its Editor, Jinunie Jones. 
The Club will continue its weekly luncheons on Friday of every week, in the Ivory Room of Mandel Broth­ers Store. Renewed interest in these luncheons has been manifested. The luncheon committee is in charge of Joe Donaldson, '23, who has made plans for a feature of entertainment for each week. 

Special attention is being given to the VOCATIONAL ADVISORY COMJHTTEE which we hope will be comprised of members who are lead­ers in various walks of life. Its pur­pose will be to advise the younger men, and if possible secure positions for them. 
Sincerely yours, 
Jas. M. McNichoIas. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS April, 1931 
Since the recent election of officers, 
Jim Brennan, newly elected Chicago 
Club President, has appointed the 

following committee chairmanships: 
« Luncheons Committee — Joseph P. Donaldson, '23. Vocational Guidance — Daniel E. Hilgartner, '17. Universal N. D. Night—John Scal­lan, '25. Editor "Quadrangles" — James Jones, '27. Publicity—John Scallan, '25. 
Jim McNicholas, Secretary, in an­swer to a plea for Club Notes for the ALUMNUS, sent in the follow­ing: "The Club is experimenting with the idea of one center from which we hope will emanate all publicitj­relating to our actirities. The con­tributions to your publication in the way of Club Notes, therefore, will come—we hope—^from Jack Scallan, who, am.ong other burdens, has as­sumed charge of club publicity." 
CLE\'ELAND 

Dear Jim: Arrangements have been completed for the Notre Dame Club of Cleve­land Easter Formal to be held on Easter Monday night at the Univer­sitj' Club. Members of the various committees are as follows: 
John Butler, Chairman; Gene Kane; George Kerver; Fred Joyce; Don Miller; Charles Mooney; Tom Bj'rne; John Reidy; and Paul Brady. 
Admission this year will be by in­vitation only, in order to limit the crowd. Notre Dame parties in Cleve­land are very popular, and we expect a very pleasant evening. 
Plans are already being made for the celebration for University of Notre Dame Night. As usual we will have our annual meeting, and election of officers. 
Joe Toolen has returned to Cleve­land, and was welcomed by the "old Quad Hall" gang, which, by the way, is probably well broken up; J. Curtis is in Detroit—Spike McAdams and Al Sommers are living at the Lake Shore, and the other boys have wan­dered in various parts. 
Suppose you know that Don Miller is engaged to be married to Miss Mae Lynch of Terre Haute, Indiana. The marriage will take place some time next month at St. Mary-of-the-Woods. 
Yours very truly, 
Notre Dame Club of Cleveland 
Fred Joyce, Secy. 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Alumni from Eastern Pennsylvania will be interested in the following from Leo Mclntyre, Bethlehem: 
"I think we shall be able to erect the organization of the Notre Dame Club of Eastern Pennsylvania at a dinner to be held on Universal Notre Dame Night in either AUentown, Bethlehem or Reading. In the post card which I sent out this week one of the queries will be: 'Where would . j'ou like to hold our dinner on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night?'" 
A recent letter from Leo is still more encouraging: 
"Plans for a dinner to be held by alumni and former students of Notre Dame now residing in Eastern Penn­sylvania are progressing. 

"Joseph Ricapito, director of the Marine Band of AUentown, a gradu­ate of Lehigh University, has assured me that he and his band wiU be de­lighted to play all the Notre Dame songs for us at a dinner on April 20. He has sent to Chicago for the songs, which he will also teach the Liberty High School band, the public high school band of Bethlehem, which he also directs." 
Alumni now living in Eastern Pennsylvania are urged to attend this meeting on Universal Notre Dame Night. We will be glad to have the name and address of any former student who has recently become a resident of the Eastern part of Penn­sylvania. Anyone desiring any fur­ther information, may write to either this office or to Leo Mclntyre, 70S Eighth Ave., Bethlehem, Pa. 
FORT WAYNE 

Cliff Ward, Secretary, after an es­pecially "diriy crack" about a sub­ject near and dear to the heart of the Editor (the photo of said Editor in the March magazine) redeems him­self somewhat by sending in some news from Fort Wayne. 
The Fort Wayne Club is working with the undergraduates in trying to put across their annual dance in Fort Wayne, Easter Monday night. Ac­cording to advanced information the dance is to- be held in the Hotel An­thony ballroom. The orchestra has not yet been announced. Cliif says: "Success will be easy." 
In the same letter the Secretary says: "Recent visitors at Fort Wayne included the well-know Bustamante from South America, Johnny Mon­tague from Chicago, and Joseph Hennaberry, also from Caponeland. I don't know whether the ALtTMNUS ever carried the announcement of the third son in the Logan family, but if it hasn't, it should. With three boys and no daughters, the Logans should be able to contribute materially to the prosperity of the University of Notre Dame in the future." 
HAMILTON, OHIO 
The Notre Dame Club of Hamilton, Ohio is planning a celebration on April 20, Universal Notre Dame Night, according to information con­tained in a recent letter from Marc Fiehrer, Secretary of the Club. No details were given, and we are look­ing forward to receiving more spe­cific information soon . . . perhaps before this issue is on the press. If not, see the the May ALUMNUS! 
HAVANA, CUBA 

C. C. Fitzgerald, of Havana, has promised to do his best to get the Notre Dame fellows in the Havana territory together for a celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
HIAWATHALAND 

My dear Jim: 
Wish you were going to be here to participate in the annual meeting of the Notre Dame-Hiawathaland Club. 
Alumni from Marinette, Wis., Me­nominee, Iron Mountain, Gladstone, Ishpeming, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock, Calumet, Soo, and Escanaba will be in attendance at our banquet, and the "after dinner party" will be held at an old Hunting Camp on the shores of Green Bay. 
We have already hired the best known chef in the Upper Peninsula, Ralph Pratt, to take charge of the dinner. We expect about one hundred guests, and according to returns re­ceived from the alumni, our attend­ance will be about 99%. 
Will advise you the outcome of the meeting and gi%'e you all the dope on our future plans. 
Sincerely, 
Gerald J. Cleary, Sec. 
INDIANAPOLIS 

The Notre Dame Scholarship Club, of-Indianapolis, is having a reception Easter afternoon at the Academy of Music, with dancing and refresh­ments, for the benefit of the Scholar­ship fund of the club. From the number of reservations made we ex­pect a very successful affair. Robert 
M. Worth and Robert Kirby are in charge. 
Our plans for Universal Notre Dame Night are about complete. We are trying to make the occasion com­
plete with the atmosphere of the old dining hall with the famous "buns" and Notre Dame jackets on the wait­ers. One of the professors of the school will be the principal speaker. 
Sincerely, 
Walter W. Houppert, Secy. 
JOLIET CLUB 

"Dear Jim: 
As I told you in the last letter you received from the Joliet Club, we were preparing for election of offi­cers. That event took place on the evening of March 10. The meeting was held at the Woodruff hotel and was preceded by a dinner. 
Being well satisfied with the man­agement of the Club' many of the members were in favor of retaining the officers of 1930, which speaks well for them, but being prevailed upon by said officers, the members at last agreed to elect a new group. This was done, with one sad exception. The secretary could not prevail upon any one to accept a nomination for that office. 
Mr. Joseph Adler, '24, our treas­urer of last year, was elected presi­dent. He succeeds Mr. Clarence W. Wilhelmi, a genial and capable gen­tleman, who was elected to the board of directors for a three year term. 
Charles Lennon, '30, now subs for the president in his absence, in the role of vice-president. 
William Bossingham, '25, now con­trols the financial destiny of the Club as treasurer. 
John P. Berscheid, '29, the sad ex­ception mentioned above, continues in the office of secretary. 
It is the intention of the new offi­cers to keep the Club active, to in­crease the activities, and to see that every person eligible to membership in the Club, be induced to join. 
At present the main interest of the members is directed toward Univer­sal Notre Dame Night, and while the actual plans for that evening have not been worked out, the next meet­ing will insure their completion. 
Sincerely yours, 
John P. Berscheid, Secy." 
KANSAS CITY 

Dear Jim: Am sending the K. C. data post­haste as per your airmail request. 
Locally, Ray Conrad has given up architecture and is now sales engi­neer for Progressive School Equip­ment Co., covering five of the adjoin­ing states, and doing nicely. 
Ed McGrath (Monk) was injured recently in an auto accident. How­ever he is recovered, and is as ever the life of all parties. 
Alumni of Notre Dame and Ne­braska put on a brief contest at the Hockey matches last week, and, just as you would expect, N. D. finished with honors. 
Judge Tom Holland's court is filled with frequenters of local gambling houses, and Judge Tom is out to clean up the old town, with heavy fines and jail sentences. The old 
N. D. spirit. 
Joe Shaughnessy, the biggest ar­chitect in K. C. is building up a fine practice, and is a very popular mem­ber of the local chapter of the Amer­ican Institute of Architects. 
Tentative plans for Universal N. D. Night call for a buffet supper at the Senate Hotel, very informal, with program broadcast from WDAF and KMBC radio stations. A. short busi­ness meeting, and report of the Sec­retary and Treasurer, and brief talk by Conrad Mann, our Honorary Pres­ident. 
Shall give you full report of our meeting for your later issue. Sincerely, Maurice Carroll, Secy. 
ICENTUCKY 

Some belated election reports from Kentucky. (Unfortunately, the re­sults of the election were not included in last month's ALUMNUS). 
The Club held its quarterly meet­ing, and also elected the following officers on the night of February 2: 
President—Frank B. Bloemer, Jr., '22 
Vice-Pres. — Joseph P. Harmon, '25 
Vice-Pres.—Martin Sullivan, Ex. '23 
Secretary—Edwin Boehmer, Ex. '25 
Treasurer—^Eugene Steurle, Ex. '24 

The new officers have started things humming with the announce­ment of a big party on April 20. Particulars as to the way the Night will be celebrated have not been worked out at this time. 
Another announcement of unusual interest to the scores of alumni who journey to the Blue Grass State an­nually for that great classic — the Kentucky Derby — is the good news that the Club will hold open house at 126 E. Jefferson, Louisville, during the Derby for any alumnus who is in the city for that event. Anyone crav­ing companionship or sure tips on the Derby go to Bloemer's, 126 E. Jef­ferson, knock three times and ask for "Frank." 
LOUISLANA-MISSISSIPPI 

Dear Jim: 
Mr. Burke and myself had the pleasure of spending a few minutes with Mr. Angus McDonald on his re­cent visit here, which visit was for the day only. It just so happened that on the same day I received my copy of the ALUMNUS and learned therefrom that the University had chosen Mr. McDonald to make the commencement address. I anticipate having the pleasure of hearing this address, and think the University made a very capable selection in their speaker for this year's com­mencement exercise. 
John Barr of Pittsburgh in the class of '24, dropped in on me yes­terday, and we spent a very interest­ing luncheon engagement discussing Notre Dame matters in general. 
Outside of aforegoing, news is very scarce. I think you should ask Laskey or Cowles to drop you a line, as I imderstand our good friend, Pat Manion, has recently spent several days in Shreveport. 
Hoping to develop more news in future, I beg to remain. 
Yours sincerely, Cyp Sporl. 
MILWAUKEE 

A note from William Bedden, Sec­retary of the Milwaukee Club, an­nounces a luncheon on Tuesday, April 9, to discuss future plans for the Club. 
The Club is to be congratulated upon the splendid work that has been accomplished in connection with a Club Directory. The Office has re­cently received a copy of a splendid mimeographed Directory containing the names, years at Notre Dame, de­grees, address, occupation and tele-, phone numbers of the members. 
Quite a few of the younger fellows are located in Milwaukee. From the 1928 Class we find that Robert Beck is Vice-President of the Delta Manu­facturing Co; Paul C. Brust is prac­ticing architecture with his father; Eugene Galdabini is with A. 0. Smith Corp.; Jerry De Clerc puts the Fleischmann Yeast Company ocross; Frank Holdampf is with C. S. Whit­ney Company, consulting engineers; Jean La Boule is continuing his stud­ies at the University of Wisconsin; Robert Lutz is now with Alexander, Burke & Clark, attorneys; and James Rank sees that people get around town in Studebaker cars. 
Here are some of the '29ers: John 

J. Donahue, and Charles Schutty with Allis Chalmers Manufacturing Co.; Angelo Galdabini makes boxes with the Manufacturers Box Company— anyway, he is working with that Company; Fred Miller, former foot­ball star, et cetera, works for his dad in the Miller Lumber Company, and James Le Grand doubles for one of Hell's Angels as a Curtiss aviator. 
A number of the 1930 students are located in Milwaukee. Among them are Thomas Meagher who is a student at Marquette University; Clark Stan­hope, who does accounting for the Wisconsin Telephone Company, and 
E. A. Bartley and Henry Welters who are employed by the AUis Chalmers Mfg. Company. 
NEW JERSEY 

Between the "26 Reunion in June and Universal Notre Dame Night in April, Jake Purcell is keeping him­self thoroughly occupied. The Notre Dame Club of New Jersey is plan­ning on a stag dinner on the night of April 20. Negotiations are being made to have some prominent alumni as guest speakers of the Club. No details have been enclosed in any of Jake's numerous letters, but it is safe to assume, from past New Jersey affairs, that U. N. D. Night celebra­tions will be a gala event. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 

A recent note from the Club con­tains the following information re­garding the March meeting. Hotel Grill room, San Francisco. "Good enthusiastic atendance . . . Gilbert K. Chseterton was in town at the time on tour of the Pacific Coast, but un­able to address our meeting . . . Harry Burt, loyal N. D. member and well-known by alumni here and citi­zens of Richmond, bursted in late, however, and saved the speakers committee's faces with an enjoyable harangue on, "\Vhy I Sing Tenor" . . . Plans were outlined for the ob­servance of Universal Notre Dame Night, and a committee appointed to handle the preparations . . . An En­dowment Fund contribution of $25 from Mr. J. M. Smith, prominent San Francisco contractor and president of the St. Mary's College Alumni was annoimccd and a vote of thanks and appreciation extended to Mr. Smith. 
No new faces appeared at our last meeting but at the February meet­ing Jim Wasson, now of Berkeley with Colgate-Palmolive-Peet and for­merly of Milwaukee, reported and found several old pals of his time that he hadn't seen for years. 
K. K. Eockne was in the city sev­eral weeks ago appearing in all kinds of roles . . . coach, lecturer, professor, radio artist, salesman . . . and he still keeps his audience guess­ing. 
PHIIADELPHIA 
Dear Jim: 
This is just a word as evidence that 'Old Man -Apathy' hasn't entire­ly routed the garrison of your Quaker City outpost. We must confess to a hibernation but already repentance and good resolution have started to plan a counter movement to culmi­nate in a general awakening on April 20th. 
On that date we will hold forth as Sons of Notre Dame at Les Casades Restaurant with a dinner to get under way at seven o'clock. We espe­cially urge any of the boys who may be in town on that date to join us. In connection with this thought it is in point to remark that very often alumni move to Philadelphia for an extended stay (and some, believe it or not, permanently) and never think of getting in touch with members of the club. We'd all like to hear from the new-comers but we're not keep­ers of the City Roll, so must depend upon their making their presence known. If they will do this we promise collectively and individually to soften for them the seeming aus­terity of our much misunderstood municipality. There are ways of do­
ing this. 

We are just initiating a campaign to have every alumnus in our terri­tory enrolled as a member of the General Alumni Association before Universal Notre Dame Night and hope, both for the benefit of the As­sociation and the members, that we meet with success. As for the Night, itself, definite plans for a program are not yet made. However, our problem will be to devise a program which will enable us to discuss all the questions awaiting discussion in the limited time available—and still allow time for the very necessary 'bull session.' 
Ivindest personal regards. 
Very truly yours, John Kelly, Secretary-Treasurer 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY 

When Notre Dame men of Rock­ford, Dixon, Sterling, Beloit and other towns of that vicinity gather in Eockford the night of April 20, it will mark the second anniversary of the organization of the Rock River Valley-Notre Dame club, which" started on the Universal Night cele­bration of 1929. Election of officers, therefore, will be an order of busi­ness. E. M. Lorden, '24, of Rock­ford, is president, and Willard Jones, '25, of Dixon, is vice-president. 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL NEW YORK 
"The Syracuse Club enjoyed and appreciated the visit of the Basket­ball team on March 1 and 2. Regard­less of the score the team gave a good exhibition of fine play. Their opponents are considered to be one of the leading teams in the State. 
"We entertained the team at din­ner Sunday night followed by a hockey game, the team being the guests of the Syracuse Professional Hockey Club. Messrs. P. J. O'Con­nor Sales Company graciously fur­nished Studebaker cars as required." 
This information was contained in a letter from E. C. Schonlau, Presi­dent of the Club. Enclosed in the same letter was a pledge and check from the Syracuse and Central New York Club to the Living Endowment Fimd. May I take this opportunity to e-xpress my sincere thanks to the members of the Club for their co­operation.—^The Editor. 
SOUTHWESTERN TEXAS 
The Notre Dame Club of South­western Texas is making prepara­tions for celebrating Universal Notre Dame Night. According to present plans the • Club will entertain with a Stag diimer, similar to the cele­bration held last year. Two promi­nent citizens, interested in Notre Dame, will be guest speakers. Ar­rangements will be made with the local broadcasting station to pick up any broadcasts that can be arranged. 

Kirwin Williams, Secretary of the Club tells us that the Club is prepar­ing for the election of officers. The members are also considering re­organization, from the Club of South­western Texas to the San Antonio-Notre Dame Club. The results of this project will be listed in the May issue of this magazine. 
TOLEDO Dear Jim: 
Since Ben Resting was unable to attend the meeting of the Toledo-Notre Dame Club yesterday, I was appointed to write and give you the information for the next issue of the -ALUMNUS. 
The Toledo Club held its meeting at the University Club on Sunday morning, March 29th, immediately following the 8:30 Mass at the Cathe­dral Chapel. This breakfast-meeting proved to be a very interesting one. 
Everyone and everything is looking up to the Easter Monday dance to be held at the University Club. It is a complete sell-out. We have already reached our limit in sales. It is go­ing to be a great success, one which the Toledo Club can always be well proud. 
And now for our biggest moment— Universal Notre Dame Night. It is going to be BIG in Toledo. Popular Pat Manion will be the prominent speaker, ably assisted by Dr. John 
T. Murphy, a prominent X-ray spe­cialist and honorary member of the Toledo Club, and Grove Patterson, well-known editor of the Toledo Blade. One or two representatives of the Toledo News Bee will also be on hand. Buffet supper, Notre Dame songs, smokes, music, et. al. Every­one is expected to tell a story or joke; the one telling the best story will re­ceive a prize. 
The Toledo Club has gone golf. GOLF! Two tournaments are on the list for the summer. The first will be held in May at the Heatherdowns Country Club. Artie Schmidt will be host. The second tournament will be held at the Riverby Hills. Golf, prizes, swimming, eats and handicaps will be enjoyed by all. This is our first venture in the golf tournament, but it already looks a success. 
Emory Toth reports that Emorj-Toth II, now ten months old, is al­ready rooting for N. D. We suspect iie is kidding us, but, well, you know 'em. He is proud of that boy and well he might be if junior is like his father. 
Sincerely yours, 
Rav L. Tillman. 
VERMONT 

Joseph Radigan, Ludlow, Vermont, is planning on organizing a Notre Dame Club of Vermont. He hopes to arrange the first meeting on Univer­sal Notre Dame Night. -A.ny help that alumni from the State of Ver­mont can give him will be greatly appreciated. The Club will probably consist of all graduates and former students in the State of Vermont. 
The Alumni Chibs are urged to go to Holy Communion in a body on Sunday, April 19th, for Knute K. Rockne 

QiiiM iiittii iiiiiiii iiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiniitiiiiiiiMiuiiiiiitiiitMiM(iMniiiwiMiiniiHiiMntiiiHiint*iniMii(iiiHUUMiinituiiiHUMiint( i: 
Local Alumni Club Meetings 
I Send Notice of Meetings of Clubs Not Listed to | I Altvmni Secretary, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. \ 
I CHICAGO: Friday; 12:00, Ivory Room, Mandel's (weekly luncheon). | 
I CINCINNATI: Tuesday; 12:15 p. m., Broadway Hotel (luncheon meet-| I ings—first and Third Tuesdays). | 
I CLEVELAND: Monday; Hollenden Hotel (year around luncheon | I meetings. I 
1 DES MOINES: Monthly meeting—no regular date—(call Carleton i I Beh). i 
I DETROIT: Thursday; 12:30 p. m., Prontenao Inn, 42 Monroe Avenue | i (weekly luncheon meeting). | 
I DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA: Monthly luncheon—last Wednesday of | I each month; University Club, Washington. | 
I FORT WAYNE: Monthly dinner—no regular date—(call Edward T. | I Gilmartin, President). i 
I INDIANAPOLIS: Second Wednesday of the month,luncheon, Indianap-| I oils Athletic Club. | 
I JOLIET: Monthly meeting—first Tuesday. (Call Clarence Wilhelmi | 
I for details). = 
i KENTUCKY: Tuesday (luncheon meetings—second Tuesday; no reg-| 
I ular location; call J. R. Brown, President). | 
I LOS ANGELES: Monthly dinner meeting; no regular location—(call | 
I Henry I. Dockweiler, President, for details). | 
I NEW JERSEY: Monday; 7:30 p. m., Newark AthleHc Club, Newark | 
i —(monthly meeting—first Monday). i 
I NEW YORK CITY: Thursday; Fraternity Qub, 22 E. 38th Street— | 
i (weekly luncheon). i 
I NORTHERN CALIFORNIA: Tuesday; noon. Grill Room, Fairmount | 
I Hotel, San Francisco—(monthly luncheon—first Tuesday). | 
I ROCHESTER: Meetings twice monthly. Columbus Club. CallNorbert | 
I Baglin, 25 Amett Blvd. | 
i SYRACUSE: Wednesday; 12:15 p. m., Schraft's—monthly luncheon— f 
I second Wednesday). | 
i TOLEDO: First Sunday of the month—Mass 8:30, Cathedral Chapel, | I followed by breakfast. University Club. | 
1 UTAH: Tuesday, University Club, Salt Lake City—(monthly luncheon | I —^first Tuesday). | 
I W-4BASH VALLEY: Four times yearly—January, April, October, | I December—^Fowler Hotel, Lafayette, Ind.—(call Francis Watson, | I President, for details). | ' 
1 WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA: Thursdays; 12:15, McCreery's Dining | I Room, Sixth Ave. and Wood St., Pittsburgh—(weekly luncheons). | 
Q... 
El" (Illllllll tllltltltllltllltllililllll itiniiiiiMtiniiitiiMiitiiitiiuiitiiitiiitiiitiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiMiMiiiiiniiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiii B 
•illiiiiiiiltiiiiiliiitliiii 

B..,. 
Deaths 

The ALUMNUS regrets to an­nounce the death of Prof. CLARENCE 
T. HAGERTY, on March 21 in Cleve­land, Ohio. Death came after a three months' illness. The body was sent to Chicago for burial. 
"Cat" Hagerty, as he was known to his friends, because of the initials, Clarence A. T. Hagerty, was gradu­ated from Notre Dame in 1S90, and received a Master of Science degree in 1895. He was also an instructor at Notre Dame for several years. Professor Hagerty also received a degree from Har\'ard University, and for 32 years was a teacher of mathe­matics at the New Mexico College of Agriculture and Mechanical Arts. He was formerly grand knight of the Knights of Columbus at Las Cruces, 
N. Mex. 
The tragic and untimelv death of HAROLD W. HALPIN, '28, has re­cently been reported in the Alumni Office. Harold, the son of J. B. Hal-pin, prominent Elyria contractor, was fatally injured in an auto accident in Los Angeles, March 22. The car in which Harold, and his brother Don, were driving, was struck by the auto­mobile of a Los Angeles policeman, according to advices received here. Don, a graduate of Notre Dame with the Class of '28, was only slightly injured. Harold died early Monday morning. 
Since his graduation from Notre Dame, Harold has been associated with his father in the contracting business. He and his brother and a Charles Wentz of Elyria, had been touring the west for several weeks. 
Besides his parents, he is survived by his brother and three sisters, Geraldine, Nancy, and Mary. Burial was in Elyria. 
George L. Duval, who was awarded the Laetare Medal by Notre Dame in 1919, died on Monday, March 16, at his home, 300 Park Ave., New York Cit}'. Mr. Duval was presented with the Medal by Rev. JOHN CAVA­NAUGH, C.S.C., then President of the University, in recognition of his generous gifts to Catholic Charities. 
Mr. Duval, who started his career as an employee in the William R. 
^THE ALUMNI: 
•iiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiii4iiiiiiiiiiiitiiitiitintiittiiiiiMiitiiiiiiitiitiiuiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiitiiiiittiiiiiiiiii 
B 
Grace Company, export and import firm, at the age of 16, became part­ner of the same firm at 23, and was one of the founders of the present firm of Wessel, Duval and Co. 

He never married, and left only a sister, Mrs. Anna Chadwick, two nieces, and a nephew. 
The ALUMNUS wishes to express the sympathy of the Association to DANIEL R. CONNELL, Jr., '25, and to WARD T. CONNELL, ex. '25, on the death of their father, Dr. D. R. Connell, of Beloit, Wis. Dr. Connell, a well-known physician and surgeon, died on February 8, 1931, result of a fractured hip. 
The ALUMNUS also e.xtends sym­pathy to LEO J. HERBERT, '27, whose mother, Mrs. Elsie Herbert of Rock Island, died recently. 
We also wish to extend sincere sjTnpathy to W. M. ADAMS, '25, who has had the misfortune to lose both his parents within a month's time. Bill's father passed away on Christ­mas Eve, and his mother died a month later. 
EDWARD CUNNINGHAM, '28, of Los Angeles, Calif., has our sincere sympathy. Ed's father passed away recently. 
BiHhs 

"Mr and Mrs. JAMES LILUS, ex '26, 'announce the arrival to be a boy. Possibly Jim, Jr., No accurate data yet." The above is from Maurice Carroll, Kansas iCty. 
Mr. and Mrs. W. PRANK OLSEN, of Los Angeles, are the proud parents of a baby girl, Mary Margaret, bom March 14, and weighing 71-3 pounds. Frank was graduated from Notre Dame in 1926, and received an M>A. degree in Boy Guidance in 1927. 
George Kingsley, Secy, of the Western Pennsylvania Club has just given us the following news: "An­other event that calls for some con­gratulations, is the fact that Dr. LEO D. O'DONNELL, '17, better known as 'Mickey' to his old class­mates, is the proud father of a beau­tiful baby girl. The latest addition to our Club, Miss Elizabeth Patterson O'Donnell, was bom November 25, 1930, and now the 'Doc' claims that day to be his lucky one." 
ART and Mrs. Carmody, '15, are the proud parents of a baby girl, Josephine, arrived several months ago. Art plans to take her to South Bend in June, and get her acquainted with the walls of the fortress across the way. 
-«
I 
Engagements 
I 

Harry Dempf supplies us with this engagement: 
"Here is an item that is even a scoop on the Louisville press. KEN HAMMOND, M.E., '25, is engaged to Miss Mae Sullivan, formerly of Fall River, Mass.; the marriage to take place the first part of May. Kenneth is. First Assistant Chief Engineer of the American Air Filter Company, with headquarters in Louisville, and no doubt his many friends will be glad to hear of both of his profes­sional progress and also the news." 
"If MIICE HOGAN, '29, has any enemies (which we doubt) they will be pleased to hear that Mike has finally been ensnared. The announce­ment of Hogan's engagement to Miss Betty Chapman of Fort WajTie has been announced. We understand that the fatal day will be in April. S'too bad, Mike!" (The Editor does not wish to take the responsibility for the above statements. Being a hap­pily married man himself, it would hardly be wise . . . The above is, you will note, a direct quotation from a letter received from a member of the Class of '29.) 
I. 
Marriages 
I 

The marriage of Eulaun Brandon Burke, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Ulla Brandon of Auburn, Ind., and ROBERT S. BAILEY, '29, took place March 22 at St. James Episcopal church. South Bend. 
These Notre Dame men will con­tinue to do it. . . This is another one of those Notre Dame-Saint Mary's al­liances. OSKAR D. RUST, '29, was married to Miss Zita Mae Scheidler, 
Avril, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
St. Mary's, '29, on September 2, 1930, at Greensburg, Ind. HENRY "HAN" HASLEY, Fort Wayne's dashing young attorney, aided Rosalie Hoeffler, in witnessing the affixing of the penal chains. Rust is Red Grang­ing it in the Ice and Coal business in Greensburg, and is one of the city's leading citizens. 
Personals 
1 
1879 

ED RYAN, of the Class of '23, sent a letter to the Office recently con­taining the good news that he had quite a chat -vvith Prof. MARTIN Mc-CUE at his home in Woodstock, the middle of March. Ed said the Profes­sor "was looking as young as ever, and hopes to be back at Notre Dame next fall." We, at Notre Dame, are especially glad to hear this, and know that the Professor's many friends will find it natural to see him back on the campus again when they visit the school. 
1889 

An exceptionally interesting news­paper article concerning the well-known alumnus, GENE MELADY, '89, has been called to our attention. Mr. Melady has always been a fol­lower of athletic events. The article outlines Mr. Melady's career as a sportsman from the time he was a member of the Notre Dame football team at the age of sixteen — and by the way, he was six feet and one inch at that time and the youngest mem­ber of the team — through his years as manager of heavyweight matmen. During this time Gene promoted many big mat shows in Omaha. At that time grappling was strictly on the up-and-up. 
Through his activities in the sports world Gene has made innumerable friends among men nationally known in the athletic world. Jack Curley, who is responsible for the present activity in the wrestling revival in New York, is a close friend, as is Jim Corbett, former heavyweight champion. 
Eugene Patrick Melady, Jr., 18 years old, 6 feet 4 inches tall and weighing 190 pounds, is attending St. Mary's (Kansas) college, and prob­ably will follow in his dad's footsteps and attend Notre Dame. 
1890-1893 

Louis P. Chute, 7 University Av e Minneapolis, Minn., Secretary. 
With the following order I think I have gone the limit of endurance, and trust the "bug" is now about elim­inated from the system. Please don't let 'um "elide" the heading from the follo\ving memorial: 
FOR SuPER-AcADEjnciAXS ONLY 

In the March issue of the ALUM­NUS, page 251, these four secretaries had a jargon of Latin,—so-called for want of a more appropriate designa­tion,—being a post-type of the "com­petitions" of yore, and intended to be entitled "Nunc or Nunquam." This title was missing on the ALUMNUS set-up for unobvious (maybe devious, maybe academic) reasons. The expe­rience didn't cure him of his foolish­ness, which goes on apace for the benefit of those who might be inclined to solemncholy and long faces sub­versive of fine disposition. 
While e-xpecting a possible "criti­cism" from some quarter puncturing the technique "full of 000s," it was not thought this would come so soon as to appear to be integral with the original text. However, with a just pride becoming one of ordinary pru­dence and discretion, (poor fellow), the "criticism" is now criticized as follows: 
1.
 The word "collection" in the third paragraph reminds one of his pastor's appeal for the "offerings of the faithful" supplemental to the regular weekly envelope in a multi­tude of extra services for the spiritual advancement of the congregation trained to liberal attendance, "Recol­lection" would be better, though sup­posedly not covering the same ground tivice at a service. This is intended to be only playful with pastors who can appreciate a little pleasantry at. their expense. 

2.
 It is difficult to divine the pur­pose for the elision of the title to the Latin gibberish. Let us call it "Nunc or Nunquam." Titles at the head of an article generally have a tendency to give slant to the text, sometimes to the extent of causing it to tumble into the oblivion of the w-bsqt. If not going too far will say that belated attempt was made to add to the gib­berishness of the article by inserting, 171 Ung^ia aliena, a polite recommenda­tion from the dauntless Horatius to Lars Porsena and his warrior host, to be careful, and "hold their bosses" and not let King Richard have a "one" when he might just as well have volunteered to break the bank on a "six" or an "eight." 


3. The above is but a back-handed reflex of the hearty, fateful 000s an­ticipated to af9ict the text; the pur­pose of this criticism is that these four secretaries didn't want his school-mates to think his present knowledge of the Classics had so waned as to believe that "tuis" and "vobis" were identical. One is in­dicative of a goodly wherewithal, and the other refers merely to the exist­ence of the other fellow, or a bunch of him. This-<me was self caught without assistance from any other grad who might be mystified by the above talk. About two weeks having elapsed since page 251, it is evident that grads don't check up very much on grads to show up their mistakes. However, it might be that they aU marveled at the perfection of the diction and saw no occasion to com­ment. 
In checking up on these conceptions with anyone interested it would not be necessary to refer to musty tombs of the past; March dumber for date and spritdiness will negative the idea. 
Theto Dayness. 
1894 

Hugh A. O'Doonell, The New York Times, New York City. 
HUGH O'DONNELL ^vrites a note of lament because of his failure to scrape up any Class Notes for this issue. Hugh has been ever faithful in this phase of activity, and we are suggesting that some other member of the Class drop us a note once in awhile. 
1897 

Rev. John MacNamara, St. Joseph Sanitarium, Mount Clemens, Mich., 
"W. BARNETT WEAVER, MJ)., is practicing medicine in Miamisburg, Ohio. Barney has changed very little as the years roll by, and the Class Secretary and he had a delightful re­union last fall in Cartier Field. It was the first in 33 years, and Barney promised that he vyould come back niore often to see the old school. 
"The Secretary has also discovered WM. C. HENGEN, long among the missing, is now the Very Rev. Dean Hengen, in charge of the Episcopal Cathedral, Faribault, Minn. He is doing fine work for his church, and it is hoped that when his duties permit, he will come back for alumni re­unions." 
In a recent letter from Father Mac­Namara to the Editor, he expressed the possibility of paying us at Notre Dame a visit most any day now. We are delighted, and know that his 
THE NOTBE DAME ALUMNUS April, 1931 
many friends will be pleased to learn of this intended visit, and also that his health is improving. Father Mac-Namara has been enjoying a much neaded. rest at St. Joseph's Sanitar­ium at Mount Clemens, Mich. 
1898 
F. Henry Wurzer, 1632 Buhl BIdg, Detroit, Michigan. 
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C. doubles for the Class Secretary, who has been critically ill in his home in Detroit. Father Cavanaugh, as usual, has some choice tidbits concerning a former student at Notre Dame: 
"T%vo recently published books are of interest to Notre Dame men. The publishing house of McBride an­nounces.'Capistrano Nights' by C. P. Saunders and ST. JOHN O'SULIJ­VAN. Father St. John O'SulUvan was a student at Notre Dame in 1898. After ordination he went to Califor­nia, and has been for many years pastor of the beautiful and celebrated old Mission of San Juan Capistrano. All California acclaims Father O'Sul­Uvan for. the intelligence and zeal with which he has restored and per­petuated one of the most beautiful of the old California Franciscan Missions." 

THE SQUIRT BAND ON PARADE 
(Taken in 1809) 
Left to Twht in the above ditthiffuishcd jyhotoffraph of this historical campus musical organiza­tion: standlnff, Fred Powers, John Egocman; seated (in the high) D. Myers, Johnson, Rob Funk, Waiter Geoghrgan, Francis Cornell, T, A. Steitter, John Forbing, J. R. Ml/crs and Wm. Kegicr. The photograph iras furnished to the .ALUMNUS by Judge Eggeman and the idcntifieations iccrc made bg Father Stciner. 
under the masterful leadership of BOB FUNK. They were unable to 
1900 
John W. Eggeman, 1201 First Nat'l. 
play anything but German Beer and Bank BIdg., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Pretzels harmonies, and just thirty-two years ago St. Patrick's Day, they The Editor wishes to announce the paraded through .the different halls appointment of JUDGE EGGEMAN at five o'clock in the morning playing as Class Secretary, to fill the vacancy their German tunes, but after the left by the unfortunate and untimely Irish students finished their forcible death of Francis O'Shaughnessy of instructions, the Band did fine in Chicago. 
carrying to the gentle winds the 

The Judge contributed a very in­strains of 'St. Patrick's Day In the teresting picture of the famous Squirt Morning'." Band (which we are reproducing on the above page of this issue), and the 
1904 

following: Robert Proctor, Monger BIdg, "In the February issue of the 
£IUiart.bid. 

ALUMNUS there was a notice re­cording some of the deeds of the The Secretary has been nunsually 'Heiny' or 'Squirt' Band. Well do I busy planning an extensive Eastern remember this musical organization tour. As head of the Order of Eagles, Mr. Proctor is kept thoroughly oc­cupied. 
We have just learned that FBANK 
J. LONEEGAN has been chosen Speaker of the House of Representa­tives of the Oregon legislature. The rollcall revealed 34 votes for Loner­gan and 23 for his opponent. Frank Lonergan has been practicing law in Portland. 
1908 
Frank X. Cull, Bnlkley Bldg, Cleveland, Ohio. 
The Secretary sends the following note in answer to a threat (sent to all Class Secretaries) from the Alumni Office: 
"I hate to be a slacker, but it scarcely ever seems possible for me to furnish you with any Class Notes. I do not see one of the members of my own Class from one end of the year to the other, and their response to my numerous inquiries for infor­mation concerning them is not very fruitful." 
We are hopeful of a stack of letters from conscience-stricken alumni for the next issue of the ALUMNUS. Or is the Class of '08 such a placid group that nothing ever happens to any of them? 
1910 
Kev. M. L. Moriarty, 527 Beall Ave., Wooster, Ohio, Secretary 
Friend Jim: 
Your request for the class notes on .\pril 1st has met with the approval of the committee. Unless the late de­livery today is jammed with responses to the dainty note I sent out some days back you •mil experience little difficulty in finding space for the 1910 news. CHET FREEZE came across with a delightful letter as a result of my wire last month. Chet and SAM McQUAID. put on a comrade act in New York a short time ago. On the same trip he visited with ART and HAROLD LARKIN and evidently mixed up some new chuckles v.-iih some old experiences. 
"RED" MILLER, Cleveland, reports a lengthy visit with Dr. Delaunay, CS.C. News from "ROSY" DOLAN came from "Red." The oldish Ail-American tackle is pounding mathe­matics or perhaps applied engineering into that part of young America attending O. A. C, Corvallis, Oregon. Rosy, we are given to understand, lives in a summer and a winter home. The particular time of the year exerts some influence on his choice of loca­

April, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALTJMNUS 
tion. "Red" claims that he builds a new summer home on the slightest provocation. 
"PAT" WALSH, Architecture '10, is associated with William Koehl, Cleveland, Ohio. The Koehl institu­tion specializes in building churches and yet "Pat" informs me by wire that he has seen no Notre Dame men recently, and (get this) all because he has been working like the devil. 
PAUL DONOVAN slows up opera­tions at Borden's in Chicago to tell me that there isn't a thing to tell. Then he proceeds to inform me that he has -been in charge of the legal department there for the past four years. He puts the old praise racket on "JIM" DEERY as a result of ex­travagant courtesies corralled in In­dianapolis. Working on the Borden background Paul agrees to supply some cheese for a little 1910 get-to­gether in June. I am agreeing to furnish the attendance and before the cheese is laid open I shall insist on eliminating any reference to the members of the 1910 Class who refuse to acknowledge letters and telegrams. 
April first—no foolin'. 
M. L. Moriarty. 
1912 Edmund H. Savord, Box 133, Sandusky, Ohio. 

The Alumni Office is in receipt of a letter from Chicago reporting that an eight-sided engraved gold medal has been found. The year 1912 is on one side and "St. Edward's Hall,. Notre Dame, Ind.", on the other. The writer says that the medal was found in Chicago, and that it will gladly be returned to the owner if he can be found. Any information will be appreciated. Just write to the Alumni Office. 
1915 James E. Sanford, 1033 S. Linden Ave., Highland Park, HI. 
JIM SANFORD seems to be greatly concerned ov^er the unruly Class of '15. He sends in the following touching note: 
"I am ashamed to have been so negligent about those 1915 Notes but information concerning the Class seems to be very scarce due, no doubt, to the fact that I have not pushed them through. 
"From now until Commencement, however, I will try to round up a few of them." 
Jim has changed his address. In case some of the penitent Classmates decide to send in some Class news, here is the address: 
James E. Sanford, 
1033 S. Linden Ave., 
Highland Park, 111. 

Phone: Highland Park 3733. 
The Secretary encloses a short note concerning S. E. (Steve) BURNS, who is connected with the Janette Manufacturing Company, 556 W. Monroe St., Chicago. Steve is in the Sales Department. 
MARK L. DUNCAN sends in a little note: 
"Receiving Notre Dame mail at my office. Address mixes too much pleas­ure with business. Hence, the change to my home address for all mail. I believe this is 1915 reunion year and certainly hope a big percentage of the '15 men find it possible to be at Notre Dame in June. 
"Recently I had a letter from BOB ROACH who was President of our Class. Bob should not find it difficult to make the Muscatine to Notre Dame journey. I also had the pleasure of spending a couple of evenings with ART CARMODY this winter. 
"Besf of wishes, 
Mark Duncan, '15." 
1917 John U. Riley, 244 Washington St, Boston, Massachusetts. 

• J. PAUL FOGARTY, who used to entertain the "hall-room boys" — Beauty Eohan and Charley Regan, by his ability to play all the popular song hits on the piano, is now enter­taining radio audiences by having his own popular songs played and sung. Paul, as you probably know, wrote the tantalizing hit of a year ago, "Betty Co-ed." Recently Rudy Valee, broad­casting the Fleischman Hour, included the latest of Paul's. This one is called "Charley Cadet." We hope Charley Cadet will enjoy all the popularity bestowed on his little sister Betty. 
JOSEPH F. GARGAN, who has been practicing law in New York City, has moved his offices to 85 Devonshire Street, Boston. 
This last notice may encourage JOHN RILEY, the Secretary. John was lamenting the fact that so few alumni were in and around Boston. He maintained that the stronghold of the '17 Class was in the Chicago terri­tory. With Joe a fellow citizen we are expecting great things . . . and feel duty-bound to warn Joe that from now on his life will probably be an open book. 
JOHN C. METCALFE, a student in St. Edward's and Carroll halls, has just published a volume of poems entitled, "Listen, Honey!" The vol­ume is published by Southtown Ex­onomist, 730 W. 65th St., Chicago. 
1922 Gerald Asbe, 1024 Monroe Ave, Roch­ester, N. T^ Secretary* 
The Law grads of 1922, who by the way comprise about a third of our class registration, are already taking .great interest in the coming Law Reimion which is to be held in con­junction with Commencement in June. The South Bend delegation of'22 law­yers including such men as AARON HUGUENARD, JIM DOOLEY, ED­WIN J. MCCARTHY, PAUL PADEN, and PAUL SCHWERTLEY are eager­ly awaiting the return of their breth­ren, and are planning for their re­
ception. 
Who can recall thoughts of '22 without awakening memories of:— JIM JONES and his green shirt— BILL MINER'S extempore address at the Oliver after Commencement— HARRY DENNY'S Orchestra— STEVE CARMODY'S lullabies—The time FRANKLYN MILLER lost a cow —ART KEENEY'S ungrateful golf pupil hitting him over the head with a golf club—^And the dizzy angle of JOHN PAUL'S sombrero on spe­cial occasions? 
CHET WYNNE and BOBPHELAN Avill return from the football fields. Out on the West Coast we have AL SCOTT, JOHN McINNES, GENE KENNEDY, HARRY DENNY, and THURMOND MUDD, and if some of these men do not put in an appear­ance we will be sorely disappointed. 
It is hoped that this mention of just a few of the '22 Law grads will revive happy memories and will help to give the class a good representa­tion at the Law Reunion. 
CLETE LYNCH, sometimes re­ferred to as the Sheriff of Notting­ham, recently tied his nag to a hitch­ing post in Peoria and sought the village tavern so he might scribble a few words to ease his mind. Clete says he would like to Jiave a goodly number of Engineers, Commerce men. Philosophers, and What Nots of the Class of '22 augment the Lawyers at Commencement so we can have a' grand reunion. -Although Glete does not say so, we think he visualizes a dinner gathering such as we had in 1927 on which occasion PAT MAN­ION earned his present renown as an after-dinner speaker. 
How about some more suggestions? 

It is a good sign when thoughts of a reunion strike so many persons in the class at the same time. Years ago we reported CHUCK HIRSCH­BUHL missing in action, but we have just celebrated the receipt of a most welcome letter from Chuch in which he inquires about the suggestion made at our graduation, that the class re-assemble in 1932 for a Tenth Anniversary celebration. Chuck's letter is a real treat and in part we quote: 
"Believe it or not, here I am. They say the road to hell is paved with good intentions, and if such is the case I have a wonderful boulevard started. Have been on the point of ^NTiting to you many times during the last couple of years, but some­how or other never seem to find time. 
"I haven't much to offer in the way of news. I have two rapidly growing daughters who keep me very busy, and who -vnil soon be of school age. I always feel that it is but a short time since we were all together at Notre Dame, but when I look at said daughters I realize that time do fly. Am still in the iron business, and so far have eluded the sheriff success­fully. But we now have one of the largest shops in the City, and if this present depression ever lifts should be able to afford a trip to South Bend some day. 
CHUCK FOLEY gets over quite often from Bums, and we always hash over the old days. He made a trip to Chicago last month and came home with more news than we had had in years. He and DUKE HOD­LEE, you know, are practicing law in Bums . . . very successfully, too. 
There are a lot of the boys I wish you could print some news about. HIGGINS, CORYN, HART, McKEE, BLOEMER, etc. I suppose it would be asking too much to get a directory of the entire class, giving present addresses. It would be very interest­ing, even if not useful. If I remem­ber correctly, we agreed among our­selves to have a ten year reunion in 1932. Have never heard any more about it, and am wondering if enough interest could be stimulated to put it over ..." 
If mail continues as heavj' as at present, the Secretarv ^^•ill need a secretary. JERRY DDCON writes as follows: 
"Hardly had I returned from a re­cent business trip to the west coast of the U. S, A., when I read about it in the March issue of the ALUMNUS —also some unnecessary comments concerning the purposes of the trip. This has impelled me to inquire of the class secretary whither he gained his information, and how the news travelled so speedily." 

The balance of Jerry's letter is filled with personal insults which are far too numerous and emphatic to register in these pages. However, we must not forget to record the news that Jerry had some pleasant \-isits -nith GENE KENNEDY and AL SCOTT, while he was in Los Angeles. 
1923 
Paul Castner, Studebaker Corp., South Bend, Ind. 
EDWIN S. RYAN dropped a note to the Office recently. Ed is with the State Highway Department of Illinois and works out of the Elgin office. He says that as far as he faiows he and Charley Corcoran, '17, are the only 
N. D. men with the Company. 
We are pleased to quote from an article by the Sports Editor of the Atlanta Georgian concerning FRANK THOMAS, which appeared in the University of Alabama Alumni News. Thomas is head coach at the Univers­ity of Alabama. 
"Thomas at first glance impresses you as being an unhappy young man. He isn't. He is full of good spirit, and has an excellent sense of humor, which is a life-saver for a coach, who at times must have the wrath of alumni. 
"Thomas is also a thorough gentle^ man. He is quiet, well-mannered and an excellent associate for young men, whose only object at college is not to play football. If I had a son I'd like for him to come under the influence of Thomas, or a man of his caliber. 
"The former Notre Dame star is tackling a tough job in leaving his place as backfield coach at Georgia to become head coach at Alabama. But Thomas is the type that relishes hard assignments. He wouldn't willingly select an easy one." 
1924 James F. Hayes, 358 Fifth Ave., New York Oty. 
It isn't very often that the Alumni Office receives word from Bengal, but when such a letter comes it is always filled with news enough to stir the imagination of even the most imim­aginative individual. From the holy priests and brothers who are tireless­ly laboring in the Missions there, we learn of the almost unbelievable suc­cess they are realizing in converting the natives. 
The following from Rev. LAU­RENCE GRANER, C.S.C., a young giant from Erie, Pa., who is acting as assistant to Father Norman de Grace in the farthest outpost of the Dacca Mission in Halaughat, will be interesting to his classmates. Father Graner writes with enthusiasm about his Christmas: 

"I hope that you had as fine a Christmas as we did. Our little church was packed solidly and many had to be content with veranda seats. Without doubt it was the largest crowd we ever had for Mass. And this is the more remarkable because all the outlying villages celebrated the day at home. Father de Grace's ingeniousness was able to produce a splendid crib. The people flocked to it and still do. The decorations for the altar surpassed anything our people have seen here for many years. Christmas Eve found us busy in the confessional. The number of confessions and communions was 
most encouraging. And then the High Mass and splendid choir. The people were filled with the spirit of the day and I think that their devotion dur­ing the High Mass must have pleased greatly the new-bom Child. I shall remember for a long time that Christmas Mass. Today, Sunday, finds us back at the old job. We re­ceived five written requests for new schools. And several others came in before, that means seven or eight new villages. And figuring a hun­dred people to a village, it means, God -vvilling, EIGHT HUNDRED CONVERTS." 
Evidently the Better Road Move­ment has not yet struck Bengal. BROTHER ANDREW, C.S.C, the headmaster of the Bandhura High School, is heartily in favor of prog­ress along that line. He writes: "The fifty miles were covered by bicycle. The great part of it was over aisles between rice fields. Over in that sec­tion there is one peculiarity about these aisles that I have not had occa­sion to notice elsewhere. There I noticed it — and how! The aisles themselves are often two and a half feet high and the top is about one foot wide. Some kind of grass or weed grows on the side, which gives them the appearance of being about three feet wide. Now and then the front wheel of the cycle would wan­der out over the grass, and I would hurriedly and unwillingly dismount. One particular time I remember dis­tinctly the two wheels worked in combination, the front wheel taking a dive at just the time the rear wheel hit a sharp bump. I sailed neatly over the handlebar. Luckily the bike wasn't hurt, so we could go on with­out further delay. Then there were two or three stretches, possibly half 

a mile in all, in which the road was so bad that there was nothing for it but to carry the bicycle. There was no place beside the bicycle, so that to carry it was the only way." 
1925 

John W. Scallan, Pullman Co, 79 W. Adams St., Chicago, Secretary. 
NORBERT SKELLE-y, way out in Kansas, is suffering from exposure. The severe blizzards in that part of the country recently are responsible. 
GEORGE DRISCOLL, according to a report from BEN KESTING, is City Engineer of Chillicothe, Ohio. 
WILLIAM A. McINERY, '01, and 

J. W. McINERY, 'OG, were guests of honor at a dinner given Tuesday eve­ning, March 3, fay the representatives of the state agency of the Franklin Fire Insurance Company. Each was presented with a silver medal com­memorating 25 years of consecutive representation ..with the company. The presentation was made by State -Agent C. D. Lasher. Among those present were WILLIAM FUEEY, '25, manager of the insurance department of Mclnemy & Mclnemy; AARON HUGUENARD, '22, WILLIAM N. BERGAN, '96, State Agent C. D. Lasher and Special Agents L. J. Fischer and Ross J. Harmen. 
1926 

Dr. Gerald W. Hayes, 38 N. 12th St., Newark, N. J , Secretary. 
VIC YAWMAN writes that he has written to BOB ANDREWS, DEN­NIS O'NEILL and GIL SCHAEFER regarding the '26 Reunion in June. Vic says the boys want to re-live the Ball week of 1926. Bob, Denny and Gil will probably know more about this than the Editor—but it sounds good. Vic also says: "Give DAN O'NEIL and HOGAN my worst for lack of correspondence—and all their fault too." 
HAROLD P. KLEIN is Manager of the Municipal Dept. of the lowa-Des-Moines Company, DesMoines, Iowa. 
DR. JERRY HAYES is up to the proverbial ears in work. Jerry is try­ing to arrange things so that he can be back for the '26 Reunion in June. 
1927 
Ed DeClerq, Secretary 8126 Drexel Blvd, Chicago, HI. 

WILLIAM RILEY writes from Gabriels, N. Y.: "Receive the ALUM­NUS regularly and am wondering where the Class of '27 keeps itself as they don't appear in the issues. Meet a number of the gang in the summer and the Adirondackers keep in touch with each other and are getting their radios in tune for April 20." 
1928 

Louis Buckley, Notre Dame, Ind, 
Secretary. 

My appeal for news in the last is­sue brought a response from my old roommate and best man, JOE BRAN­NON. Joe is in the advertising game in Chicago, and is located at 162 East Superior St., The opening par­agraph of Joe's letter will be a suf­ficient explanation to understand why I am not printing the letter in full. 
"With BILL JONES crying for the 'Gigolo' and you 'griping' about lack of correspondence, I'm ready to be­lieve that the 1928 Alumni depart­ment really is, as JACK WINGER­TER would put it, in a dilemma. I'm going to give you some actual and hearsay news about the boys. I shall make this letter unprintable, even if I have to drag out a few Notre Dame skeletons to do so. 
"I saw JOE SULLTVAN today. He is studying medicine at Rush. Looks fine and has acquired a slow drawl that is rather becoming. Joe was back East some time ago and saw a bunch of the boys. He says that ED PHILBIN is running his Dad's coal business. J^nd is doing a good job of it, according to Joe. And he saw ED TILLY. Do you remember that Ed, like JOE BREIG established quite a reputation as a woman hater, and unlike Breig, Ed has not had a date since he left school. Then Joe went up to New York and ran into WALTER LAYNE. Joe also reports that he saw MICICEY FLANNI­GAN and'SURPRISE'MARCUS Mc-MAHON. He didn't tell me what they were doing. 
"And, believe it or not, the great Amsterdamian, GEORGE VON HIN­DENBURG REMBRANDT LEPPIG is in town. Yeh, he blew in a couple of weeks ago, and is busy upsetting all of Chicago's freight traffic. You knew that George is in the motor truck business. I don't know what it's all about except that they ship freight all over. GEORGE is living in Oak Park, at the same house which harbors such incorrigibles as CHET MCDONALD, and ED McSWEENEY. George's visit has been a huge suc­cess. He is now listed as Public En­emy No. 56. I tell you. Buck, you can't keep these Notre Dame boys from getting ahead. They will suc­ceed in spite of everything. 
"I nearly forgot. JOE SULLIVAN tells me that my old room mate, GENE FARRELL has gone and got himself married, and has two kids already. 
"BILL DWYEE is stiU doing the chief work for Montgomery Ward advertising department. I ran into him the other day in Kroch's book­store. BUI looks fine .. . he is husky, weighing some 180 lbs. 
"You knew that JIM ALLEN is firmly established with a Chicago law firm. I went up to see Jim the other day .. . he looks fine. They tell me that he is the model for the new 'A Kran' the Zeppelin-
ART ZIMMERMAN is still with Marshall Field. I see Art often, so often that I think he is going to get the floor man to throw me out the next time I show my face in the store. 
That's all, Joe. 

I received a letter from R.AY MOCK from the CoUege of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minnesota. Ray mentioned that JOHN VIKTORYN is soon to be an M.D. John is at­tending Western Reserve. The fol­lowing from Ray's letter will interest you: 
"BILL KELLY ran down to Miami for a short vacation after the gruel­ling basketball season he spent as coach. JACK LAVELLE is selling sporting goods for a New York firm, DAVE KREMBS is director at the Columbus Community Club in Green Bay, Wis. 
"RAY' is kept busy teaching and coaching at St. Thomas. He is just beginning the baseball season now. He intends to be back for Commence­ment, and is anxious to see the old haunts again." 
I had a letter from JOHN R. MURPHY from Roanoke, Va. J. R. is following in the footsteps of HOWIE PHALIN in the book game. Murph spent Christmas in Norfolk. He says that he doesn't see many of the boys in the 'Old Dominion,' so didn't have much news. He is kept on the go all the time, so hasn't a permanent address, but you can al­ways reach him through his Chicago address, 1811 Prairie Ave. 
CONNIE OCHOA is having a great time down in Mexico City. Connie sounds like a member of the local Chamber of Commerce in describing the assets of the place. 
"As for myself, I have been in this beautiful city since last June, and be­lieve me, Jim, this certainly is a great town. You see we have no Prohibi­tion here and the girls are not hard to look at. Often I run up against some of the boys from school and when we do get together it is the same old "bull" as thrown by any alumni in the States, only we spread it over a few glasses of good, honest beer, and ice cold highballs. 
"For your information, as well as for that of those friends of mine who still remember me and perhaps wish to get in touch with me, my address is: Niza 76, Mexico, D. F., or else you can just write me c/o The National City Bank of New York, Mexico, D. F. 
"Remember me to all the boys." 

After the above, Connie may expect a big increase in his fan mail. 
HERBERT I. RUDDUCK is work­ing as detail man for Eli Lilly & Co., of Indianapolis, Ind., and is covering southern Illinois territory. He may be addressed at 205 W. Park Ave., Champlain, 111. 
RAY LAWLER announces that the IL R. Lawler Sprinkling Service has acquired the street sprinkling service formerly known as H. A. Brake. 
An alumnus tells us that TOM RUCKELHAUS is the owner and operator of the Red Top Cab Com­pany of Indianapolis, and that FRANK MCCARTHY is City Passen­ger Agent for the Big Four railroad. 
1929 

Joseph P. McNamara, 231 Wisconsin St., Indianapolis, Ind, Secretary. 
The following appeared in this morning's mail and, much as I'd like to 'Tail' 'it, the fact that it is ad­dressed the the Editor of the ALUM­NUS and to others has induced me to send it on for your kind considera­tion. So here 'tis: 
"To Jim Armstrong, 
Class of '29, 
And Whom It May Concern: 

Diligent perusal of the ALUMNUS during the two or three months just passed has led me to believe that our class secretary has been made the objective of a campaign of assault. 
"Having been a prefect in Sorin and somewhat-of-a-one in Corby I have knowledge which leads me to be­lieve that silence on the part of the sec'y has not been due to "Lafayette Street We are here" or anything of that ilk. My experience taught me that Mac is not only a Hibernian but a hibernator, and I'll wager that an investigation would show that he's just been sleeping all winter. 
Walt Greer." 

The Secretary suspects foul play! A letter from WALT GREER (who's burning 'em up in the labs in Nu Wark) a few days before the delivery of this outburst contained nothing of this nature. JOHNSON, BOB VO­GLEWEDE, and BOB SCHULTZ are under suspicion. 
The Editor enjoyed a visit with J-A.MES DIGAN, who is with the Logansport Radiator Equipment Com­pany . Jim had lots of dope on the fellows and passed it on to the Editor. So here it is. 
Did You Know that . . . MATT CULLEN is practicing law under the firm name of Gilmore, Hendricks and Cullen, 160 N. LaSalle St., Chicago, ni.; that BOB VOGELWEDE is an auditor with Rossiter & Co., and lives at 7200 Cyril, Chicago; that DICK HAUGH is in Delphi; that ART ZIMMERMAN is with the Photo­graph—^ ? 
Men of the Class of 1929, as well as every Notre Dame man every­where who cherish the Notre Dame tradition for clean sport, the tradi­tion which fosters rivalry without bitterness, which does not lose the head in victory nor the heart in de­feat,-which does not berate the loser nor belittle the winner, the tradition of courtesy, fair play, integrity and loyalty, mourn the death of that great leader and teacher of our undergraduate days: Knute Kenneth Rockne. 
As this was being prepared for the hands of Editor JAMES ELLIOTT ARMSTRONG, ROBERT EMMETT KIRBY frantically telephoned the news that 1929's president, TONY KOPECKY, suffered a fractured skull in a Chicago automobile accident on March 31st. 
FRERERICK MARCELLUS WON­DERLIN has the grand old state of Iowa just about all adjusted these days. MARC is with an insurance company in Des Moines, aiid is going great guns. 
"JOE" TOOMEY is back in- Chica­go with the General Motors Accept­ance Corporation. 
BOB KIRBY and JOHN ABIJAH DAVIS had charge of arranging for the Indianapolis Scholarship Club's Easter Reception which was to be the outstanding event of the Hoosier Capital's social season. BOB and JACK postponed the event because of the tragic death of Rockne. 
Here's some hot news: FRANK METRAILER is hitting them hard in the refrigeration department of the General Electric Corporation in Fort Wayne. Ice going, Frank! 
Well, the girls in Marion County, Indiana, are back to normalcy again. FRANK P. MCCARTHY is the reason. 
SYLVESTER "CY" WAGNER, formerly of Iron Junction, Minn., is one of the big railroad men of that part of the country. It is reported that he is doing more than pass-ing fair. 
Back again! EDDIE BARCH of Flint, Michigan is on the job making engineers of the same stuff that we once were. Every once in a while he takes time off from his duties as a professor at Notre Dame to jour­ney to Fort Wayne to look some old associates. He was with General Electric there for a year before join­ing the teaching staff at the Univer­sity. 
-A^ttomey WALT PARENT, whose legal career has been progressing apace, is a fond father these days. 
1930 

Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth Ave., New Kensington, Pa, Secretary. 
JOHN DEA is reported to be with the Masonite Company, Laurel Miss., just outside New Orleans. John hails from Minnesota. 
LARRY O'CONNOR of Logansport was preparing to "pass the bar" in the middle of March. Lariy is living on the north side of Chicago at 5443 Winthrop, Apt. 202. 
DICK WALTERS is located at "The Maples," Karno City, Pa. Since graduation he has been in the Eastern part of the country. Recently he moved to Chicago and we thought that maybe he would run in on us, but apparently the call of the East got him again. 
JOHN F. O'MALLEY is working for the Charles Ringer Company, Chicago. John can be found at 79th Street and Exchange Ave. 
PATRICK GOGGIN writes from Philadelphia' that he has just been transferred to the Philadelphia Works of the General Electric Company, and expects to remain in the Quaker City for the next two or three months. Pat has been in New Jersey for a couple of months. 






