The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
The War and Notre Dame (Pages 2 and 3)  
Three-Semester Plan Started (Page 4)  
Myron C. Taylor Praises Pope (Page 5)  
1941 Football Team Honored (Page 7)  
Spotlight Alumni (Page 17)  
Roscoe Pound, dean emeritus of the Harvard Law School, gave four enthusiastically-received lectures at Notre Dame in late January on the general subject of "The Revival of the Natural Law." He is shown here with Clarence E. "Pai' Manion, '22, dean of the Notre Dame Law School.  
Vol. 20 FEBRUARY. 1942 No. 4 


mmmm 

Onward to Victory! 
By Rev. Hush O'Donnell. C. S. C. President of the University 
An Address to the Students on Jan. 13, 1942, in the Dining Halls. 
A week ago I attended the joint ses­sion of the Senate and the House of Representatives as the guest of Post­master General Frank C. Walker, whom you know as a loyal alimmus and a mem­ber of the Associate Board of Lay Trus­tees. I can not tell you anything about President Roosevelt's message on the state of the nation that you do not know already. You heard it on the radio, or you read it in the newspapers. Although you were impressed by its solemnity, you would have been even more deeply moved had you been able to see the President as he delivered his message in that his­toric setting. The theme, to put it most bluntly, was "all out for war." And, un­less I am mistaken, one passage fell upon your ears with a familiar ring: 
"We are fightins," said President Roosevdt, "for security and progress and for peace, not only for oorselvea, but for all men, not only for oux generation, but for all generations, ^ye are fight­ing to cleanse the world of ancient evils, ancient ills. 
"Our enemies are guided by a brutal cynicism, by unholy contempt .for the human race. We are inspired by a faith that goes back through the ages to the first chapter of the Book of Genesis —'God created man in His own image!' We on our Bide are striving to be true to that divine heritage. We are fighting, as otir fathers have fought, to uphold the doctrine that all men are equal in the sight of God." 
This war, by that declaration, is in defense of principles which you and I hold dear, not only as Americans, but as inheritors of a cultural, intellectual, and religious tradition that began with Christian civilization. Our duty is clear; all that remains is to determine the best way of doing our duty. 
It was in this connection that I went East about ten days ago to attend a meeting of presidents of 900 American collies and imiversities. Our schools accept a two-fold obligation: first to as­sist to the utmost in the prosecution of the war; and second, to help students, in every manner consistent with sound practice, to complete their education. Ac­tually, the two obligations overlap. It is impossible to achieve one without the oilier. 
A Council of War Our meeting today is literally a coun­cil of war. I have called it in order to 
aUay the rumors that you have been hearing, and perhaps helping to circu­late, since you returned from the Christ­mas holidays. I will give you the facts about the part that your school—^and that means you, the faculty, and the administration—^miist play in bringing the war to a successful end. I did not speak to you sooner because I did not have definite information. Even now some things are yet to be decided. I shall tell you what I can, but I warn you that what I am about to say applies to the situation only as it exists now. You un­derstand that things may change very quickly, not because of action by the University, but because of conditions over which we at Notre Dame have no control. 
Don't Put Faith in Rumors 

I urge you again to remember that it is foolish to believe all you hear. You know how easily fertile minds—and they are uinusually fertile at a time like tliis— concoct stories that are swallowed as truth by persons who should know bet­ter. Keep your wits about you. Nothing serves the enemy's purposes better than to have large, representative, normally intelligent groups of our people wan­dering around in a fog of their own making. As I told you in my letter of Dec. 9, there is no reason why students should become tmduly alarmed at this time, notwithstanding the swiftness with which war has come. Do not be carried away by violent emotion, which leads to confused thinking and acting. Go about your normal ways until such time as your country calls. Let the usual social and recreational pro£:rams continue. Of course there should be a senior ball, junior prom, and other social events. Of course there should be intercollegiate and interhall athletics. Such programs are necessary for good morale at a time like this. But, through it all, don't forget " to pray unceasingly. 
In order that there may be no reaison for irresponsible talk and fruitless spec­ulation, I have taken steps to keep the student body informed about develop­ments as they occur. If news is not forth­coming from my office or from my auth­orized representatives, it will be because there is no news, and not because I, or any member of the administration, wants to "hold out" on you. You have my word for this, just as you have my word that Notre Dame wiU. protect your best interests. 
Those of you who are not of draft age should remain where you are. A stam­pede to enlist and leave your college work is not what your country wants. That was made clear by General Hershey at the Baltimore meeting of college presi­dents, when he pointed out how com­pletely the selective service system is in accord with the American way of life. Of course if it is possible to enlist and remain in school at the same time—and that can be done imder some circum­stances—patriotism might dictate such a course and one would be impatriotic if he did not endorse such a program. 

The University and the War 

The discussion at the presidents' con­ference fell into two main divisions. One dealt with cooperation with civil and military authorities; the other with the best academic program to be followed for the duration of the war, and the spe­cial consideration to be given to men who interrupt their college careers to go into the service. 
Notre Dame is already offering courses in mathematics to men who expect to enter branches of the armed forces in which mathematical skill is required. At tiie b^jinning of the next term we will offer a special course for those who plan to enlist in the Navy so that they may qualify for certain positions open to college men. There will be a special five-' hour a week course in radio to train op­erators and technicians for the army and navy. Other courses will be inaugurated as they are needed. In passing, I might add that a number of upperdassmen have expressed a wish for additional courses in languages. Should there be enou{^ interest, I shall be happy to make the proper recommendations to the Director of Studies. 
Captain Burnett has received instruc­tions from Washington asking him to interview applicants for appointments as Ensign in the engineering classification in the Naval Reserve. The Captain in­forms me that thus far the response to the invitation has been disappointing. Accordingly, I urge juniors and seniors in the College of Engineering to take advantage of the opportunity, and to call on. Captain Burnett as soon as pos­sible. Neglect of the opportunity might be a cause for regret in the future. 
(Continued on page 11) 



The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is published monthly frcm October to June, inclusive (except January), by. tiMlTahrcnUjr of Nob*] Notre Dsme, Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1. 1939, at the FoatoAee. Notn Daaei T«iK.-. vmiet the act of Ansust 24, 1912. Manber of the American Almnni Council and of the NatioBal QUhoHe Ahnnni FedeiatloB.' 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25. Edilor; WnxiAM R. DOOLEY. '26. Manaimg EJHor 
Vol. 20 FEBRUARY, 1942 No. 4 


What's Going to Happen at N.D? 
Alumni, like students and faculty— and administration, too—are vitally in­terested in what is going to happen at Notre Dame. 
Integration of the University, often questioned as a fact, has proved itself in the present emergency. In fact, Notre Dame is so closely integrated that prac­tically all major decisions of new policy are hinging on each other. 
Consequently, until the parts are all 
clear, it is difficult to put them together. 
For example, the Navy rumors, in a sense, lead the parade in local and gen­eral interest. Notre Dame offered her facilities to the Government, and the Navy made a survey here for a training project for aviation cadets. A similar survey was made at several other Mid-West colleges. No decision has been an­nounced by the Navy on this project. 

Nevertheless Notre Dame has had to hold herself in readiness to house and feed and provide certain other facilities for as many as 2,500 men. This would mean doubling up the present facilities. There may be no such men. There may be a modified number. 
But on that decision rests, to a large extent at least, such other decisions as housing facilities usually extended to alumni at Commencement. It may not be possible to have the traditional alimmi reunion on the campus. If not, we shall propose something which we trust will achieve approximately the same benefits. 
Academic life, being independent of the Navy project for the most part, has been accelerated by the three-semester program described elsewhere in this issue. 
That program, however, has resulted in a radical change in the traditional Notre Dame stmomer session. The svmi­mer session in effect has been abolished 
How Will the War Affect 
Commencement, Alumni Reunion 
and the Centenary Pro3ram? 

by the new program. On the other hand, many students of the old form will find definite improvement in the new summer semester. Housing facilities for groups such as the Sisters, in the summer, have not yet been subject to determination. 
The Centenary, which will bring many visitors and alimuii and friends to the campus, is obviously affected by the ten­tative housing arrangements. Pending definite action on utilization of the physi­cal plant of the University, the adminis­tration has not been able to pursue the imminent program of the Centenary. 
It might be added here that much of the content of the Centenary program is of magnified import in this time of national anergency and war. Much of the impact which the Centenary will make on the nation will be strengthened by the background of war. Much of Notre Dame's contribution to America achieves its greatest height in "these times. But the physical stage upon which the Centenary must rest is still in the scene-shifting phase. 
The current semester ends May 10. If, again. Commencement, in any major form, occurs on this date, it will un­doubtedly affect the Alumni Association's Universal Notre Dame Night Program. 
Notre Dame athletics, generally en­dorsed by Government pronouncements and by Father O'Donnell at the football banquet on Jan. 19, will go on. But on what basis in many fields has not yet been determined in the light of the new calendar year. 
And so you find Notre Dame today in something of a state of suspense, on the alert definitely, so that new opportuni­ties may be realized, but moving with characteristic caution so that no advan­tages gained by 100 years of effort shall be needlessly lost. 
One thing stands out,.shared by fac­ulty, students, alumni and adminisfera­tion-r-the University must continue. _ 
The several programs aimed at the strengthening of Notre Dame which were launched in 1941, assume only a deeper significance and a greater urgen­cy with the war conditions of 1942. 
Loss of enrollment, loss of athletic revenues, increase of operating costs, possibilities of taxes—^these were dang­ers that our financial program was to help us meet. 
Now they are realities, increasing real­ities, obvious realities. 
Our financial program, not yet really begun, must be begun promptly by the Clubs. It must be participated in by every alumnns. 
The things for which Notre Dame ed­ucation stands are the essentials of American life, in war or peace. They rise steadily in value as they are destroyed in one after another foreign country. 

Material goods essential to our defense have beoi marshalled under government control for conservation and the public good. 
Notre Dame' must similarly be con­served, not by government control and deriving large numbers of people of her benefits, but by the support of alumni and frioids in continuing to create 'a full enrollment of students and to provide for them the continuing opportunities for education. 
.War means sacrifice. It is a demand of 
the trained American mind that our 
sacrifices be made for good purposes. In 
the winning of tiie war, and in tiie pre­

dication and preservation of the subse­quent peace, Notre Dame eduoktion pro­vides a purpose well within the reason­able category of patriotism. 
Three-Semester Plan Is Begun 
SLudent May Drop Out For Summer is He Wishes. 
Details of Notre Dame's new three-semester academic year, revealing bene­fits to students in several phases, were announced recently by Eev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies. The program is announced for the duration of the war. 
A longer summer period is pro\'ided for the student who must work part of the year to pay his way, because the first semester began Jan. 26 and will end May 10. The summer semester will begin May 28 and extend to Sept. 8. The third semester, beginning almost at the regu­lar opening date for the traditional schoolyear, ^vill extend from Sept. 10 to Dec. 23. 
In addition, the semester of 15 weeks will appreciably reduce the cost of the semester from the necessary cost of the previous 18-week semester. 
Any student who attends continuously may finish his course in eight semesters and many young men will receive their degrees before reaching draft age. 
The new program. Father Carrico states, "will differ in no essential element from the one that has prevailed at Notre Dame heretofore. The semester system of school procedure, the courses of study, the programs of courses for the various degrees, the amount of instruction, the system of grading, the amount of semes­ter credit for courses and for degrees, and all the academic regulations of the University will remain the same as they have been in the old program." 
Of primary importance to students under war conditions is the fact that they may enter the University at the begin­ning of any semester, and the student who has interrupted his course for work or military service may resume it in any semester without breaking the sequence of his courses. 
Summarizing the new program, Father Carrico announced: 
"Any four-year college course pursued successfully through eight consecutive semesters can be completed in two and two-thirds years. 
"It is possible for a present junior to complete his course and get his degree next December, a present sophomore in the September of 1943, and a present freshman in the May of 1944. 
Extra Semester Valuable "The student who at any time inter­rupts his course may return to school at 
TRANSFER OF CREDITS 
Attention of alumni is called to the fact that for most direct and prompt securing of transcripts of credit, the request should be sent to the Ofiice of the Director of Studies, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. 

the beginning of any semester and re­sume his course, in full, just where he left off. 
"A student may attend school two semesters of the three provided in any calendar year and so give four years to his college course, as heretofore, if he wishes to do so. 
"A student who fails in some of his work will have within his three years a ninth semester, extra, in which to repair his deficiencies, complete his course, and get his degree. 
"The school expenses of the student for the slightly shortened semester of the new arrangement will be proportion­ately adjusted, with the result that the total expense of the college course will be appreciably reduced from the total amount involved in the 18-week semester." 
Rev. Hncfa O'DonneU. C.S.C., president, in Phil­adelphia with Dan Yoanir* '22. project manaffcr of Dry Dock Associates. Dan, who is in Aatgt of vast Nary constmction projects at the Phllidrl phia NatT Yard, is one of the country's leadinc civil engineers. 

SCHOLARSHIP IS ESTABLISHED 
"The Mr. and Mrs. Walter Lee Flem­

ing, Sr., Scholarship," established by 
Joseph B. Fleming, Dallas, Texas, in 
memory of his parents, is the latest 
manifestation of alumni interest, direct 
and indirect, in furthering educational 
opportunities at the University of Notre 
Dame. 
The scholarship, annoimced by J. Ar­thur Haley, director of public relations, came to Notre Dame through the agency of James P. Swift, '24, Dallas attorney. 
The Fleming name itself is familiar at Notre Dame. Walter Lee Fleming, Jr., was a graduate of the Class of 1940. Two nephews of Walter Lee Fleming, Sr., John and Irvin T., Jr., were students at Notre Dame in 1921. 
The scholarship, set up by assignment of insurance policies, will benefit "male orphans of Dallas County, Texas, who are to be selected according to a plan outlined by the donor and set forth in the instrument. Only one beneficiary at a time shall be in attendance at the University. 
"Each beneficiary participating in the Scholarship will be provided with not in excess of $800 per year from the Schol­arship fund, such amount insofar as possible to be yielded by the interest earned from the investment of the pro­ceeds of the policies." 
It may not be ordinarily proper to use a benefaction to point morals. But the ALUMNUS trusts that in this instance the graciousness of the donor can be ex­tended to emphasize several splendid features. 
First, the beneficiary, an orphan, goes back to the original purposes of Notre Dame in extending opportimity for an education here to the underprivileged. 
Second, the use of insurance policies to effect a major benefaction is some­thing within the reach of .many who may not acquire sufficient capital wealth over and above family requirements to make an outright gift or bequest. 
Third, the interest of Jim Swift, for­mer S.A.C. chairman of the turbulent twenties, now an attorney in Dallas, is in direct line—^without discounting the generosity of the benefactor at all—with the suggestion made to all Notre Dame lawyers that they may be of mutal ser­vice in aiding clients to perpetuate the work of Notre Dame. 
Fourth, the memorial feature of the scholarship, certainly requires no com­ment, but it obviously offers an oppor­tunity to the person with means whose modesty argues against a recognition of himself. Few monuments have more merit than the enriching of the minds of the young men of the "future, whose of the young men of the future. 


Reservoirs of Peace 
"You have just assisted in the holy sacrifice of the Mass, and, although I am not of your exact Church, I have had a considerable and most reverent contact with it and know something of the re­freshment and strength which flow from it. And so I take it that you who, a little while ago in another edifice, have to­gether and in all humility renewed your faith and sought the strength of grace through partaking of the Blessed Sacra­ment, have carried that spirit into this edifice, and thus we come into the fra­ternal and cooperative atmosphere of this communion breakfast. 
"Let us not forget that it is in days like these, when all men are heavy laden and despair threatens, that only through spiritual refreshment can one find rest. This morning, but for the ambitions, the frailties, the greed, the arrogance and the vanity of men, this breakfast would be one of perfect joy and thanksgiving. The skies of human life everywhere would be illumined by the joyous rays of a brilliant sun, the air would be charged with the harmonies of great hallelujahs for the realization of that great moment toward which humanity has looked with such longing zeal. Man would in fact love his neighbor as him­self. Human life would have attained its fullest perfection. That is the great pic­ture we should like to look upon—^but the picture we see is very different. Around this great globe, and especially in the eastern hemisphere, there prevails doubt, uncertainty, fear, misery, starvation, cruelty, inhumanity. In a great portion of the world human life, human rights and property rights are not sacred. Human life has become a cheap thing and property rights have largely ceased to exist. 
From the western, peace-loving hemis­phere our President has labored, with vision and understanding and rare fore­sight, to still the passions and to restrict the area of action in which men were to engage, or have engaged, in conflict. With unequaled courage he has sought to pioneer the field for international 
By Myron C. Taylor 
President's Representative at Vatican Stresses Pope's Spirituality, Vision and Talent in War-Torn World. 

The Communion-breakfast of the No­tre Dame Chib of Neio York on Sunday, Dec. 7 was a noteivorthy event: because of the day, because of the largest-evcr attendance but especially because of the historic address of Myron C. Taylor, who a feio weeks before had returned from his post as President RooseveWs person­al representative at the Vatican. As Mr. Taylor spoke the attack on Pearl Harbor loas about to break loose. 
Becatise of the outstanding worth of Mr. Taylor's address, and the peculiar timeliness of it, the "Alummis" is pleased to print it here. 
Preceding the breakfast. Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., D.D., had cele­brated Mass for the club members in St. Patrick's Cathedral. At the breakfast in the Roosevelt Hotel, the folloioing, in addition to Mr. Taylor, were speakers: Bishop O'Hara, '11; Msgr. James F. Griffiths, chancellor of the diocese of Brooklyn; Michael F. Walsh, secretary of state of the state of New York; Frank 
C.Walker, '09, postmaster general of the United States; Warren S. Fogel, '30, president of the club, and James F. Divyer, '26, chairman Of the breakfast, who was the toastmaster. 
gressiveness. He has sought to impress upon those who disturb the peace that the power and might of this great nation would, if need be, be employed to enforce and maintain that peace. 
"In those wide and unhappy lands where tragedy and death are now pres­ent, there remain but few reservoirs of peace. Among them there is one toward which the eyes of all are turned with reverence and confidence and hope—^the majestic figure of the Holy Father in the Vatican. In him we can well have a supreme confidence founded solidly not only on his Holy Office but also on his embracing spirituality, his vision and his very great talent. Within the historic walls of the Vatican one finds as in no other place among the war-torn' nations an atmosphere of tranquility, of thought­ful analysis, of deliberate judgment and of courageous and unchanging resolve. 
"There is a timelessness about the 
Vatican which impels one to believe that 
in the life of the spirit, human interests 

cannot always be measured in terms of 
a generation or of a life or of a century. 
Thus the solution of the principal diffi­

culties and trials which from time to time afflict the children of God must always be brought into accord with the 
understanding and to preserve the peace, At the New York CInb Coinmniiion-Bre«kf«»t on Dtc. 7, were Mojt Bev. John F. O'Han. C.S.C.. DJ>.. entirely without display of militant ag-Myron C. Taylor, principal speaker, and Warren S. Facel. president of the elnh. 
great fundamentals, and never be the subject of temporary compromise. In the world of the spirit, no weakening or compromise and no surrender of Chris­tian principle will be witnessed. The Vicar of those basic tenets on which Christianity rests, and which have sur­vived the blasts of intrigue and the wars of many generations, holds firm the gold­en cord that reaches from our world of today back to the very Garden of Geth­semane. 
In the presence of these sublime his­torical facts, one can almost feel himself in the very presence of St. Peter. and St. Paul. And, as one feels the presence, it is borne in that somewhere along the line of life man has failed in his obliga­tion to mankind. 
"It is trite and easy to say that civil­ization has failed. But civilization is only what we are as individuals. It is not something that can fail. Shall we say that we have failed? Does that matter? God has not failed. He cannot-fail. Rath­er is the challenge to us to fortify our faith, renew our vows and take up the good fight—^the fight of the Spirit over the material. 
In Defiance of God 

The forces that are loose in the world today were not made by God; they were made in defiance of God, and always in the history of the world God has in His" own inscrutable way brought down those who would defy Him. Might may seem to make right, but in the great drama force does not for long triumph over reason, and that which is won by force soon cnunbles before a greater force. The forces of that which is good and just will overcome the forces of evil. The power of justice is slow moving, but it is irrepressible. All wars are in vain, but the peace when it comes need not be in vain. It is our task to assist an endur­ing peace. 
"You do not need me to sketch for you a line of personal duty. That would be utter presumption. Each and all of you see and know your duty. I can do no more—I can do no less—than urge you to discharge that duty promptly, faith­fully, continuously, until these trials and tribulations shall be over, past. You will find the courage and the strength to do whatever you undertake to do. But under no circumstances allow your reflections hereafter to torment you with the thought that you, as many others have done in those places where the greatest perils have overtaken the imprepared, charge yourself with those ominous words, 'Too late, too late!'" 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Many Alumni in Combat Areas 
The world at war finds many Notre Dame alumni living and working where the battle smoke is thickest. Scattered throughout the theatres of war are at least 68 former students of the Univer­sity. Alumni office records show 16 of them in uniform on duty outside the United States. Since the declaration of war there are doubtless many others. 
According to the latest information, there are 42 alumni in the Far Eastern War Zone, 27 of whom are living in the Philippines; nine are living in China, including two nuns who were former students at the University; and six alumni are living in the • Territory of Hawaii. 
Two former Notre Dame students, Robert Y. Khoo, '27, and Ching Kay Dominic, '23, are living in Amoy, China, which is now occupied by the Japanese, according to a recent Washington dis­patch. 
The following is a list of other alumni, who, at latest report, were living in countries and foreign parts greatly af­fected by this war for world domination: 
IN THE PHIUPPINES Hidiael J. Adrian, *25, Westinghouse Electric Co.. Manila. Rafcl P. Alrarez, '25, Kabankalan. Doreteo Amador, '17, Bacoa, Sarsogen. Ennqae J. Briaa, '37, 625 Bennsylvania Ave., Manila. Leopolda Brias, '34, 226 Colorado, Hanila. Bev. Vitalis Clemente, OJ*., '24, Colegio Semin­ario de San Jacinto, Tuguesaio. Cagayan. Alariano Donato, '23, Candon Electric Idgfat Assn., Candon, IIocos Sar. Rev. John E. DoSy, '23, Chaplain, U. S. Army, Manila. Ssrt. niomas P. Foy, '38, Fort Stotsenbnrg. Frandgco D. Enaje, '12, Naval, Leyte. Donald G. Hannine. '37, Victorias Millins Co., Victorias, Occidental Negros. Anthony F. Gonxalez, '25, 915 A. Habini, Manila. Rafael J. Gonzalez, '22, 915 A. Mabini Halate, Manila: John F. Gotnaco, '24, 214 Calle Soldar. Manila. Adrian B. Martin, '39, Fort Stotsenburg. Ednardo Helian, '31 cjo San Mignel Brewery, P.O. Bex 271, Manila. JesoB H. Rocei. '35, 1052 Oroquieta Santa Cruz. Manila. Hon. Carios P. Romnio, IX.D., '35, VM-UM. News Syndicate, Manila. Antonio P. Rozas, '26, 741 Echagae, Manila. Ednardo G. Rozaa, '33, 719 Echagne, Manila. ATincente C. Sincson, '35, B73 Legarda. Manila. Panlino C. Tan, '23, 733 Zacateros, Manila. Mario G. ToncUi, '39, Fort Stotsenbnrg. Joae A. Unmico, '16, Tarlae, Tarlac Gonzala R. Valdc*. '35, 709 San Marcelino, Manila. JoK T. Zabarte, '32, 129 Bustillos St., Manila. Alfonso Zobel, '24. cyo Ayala & Cia, 21 Calle Joan Lnna, Manila. 
IN HAWAU Ensign Joseph A. Dnridn, *34, Naval Air Corps* Pearl Harbor. Harvey Fleming, '14, c/o Benson Smith Company, Honolulu. Jowph E. Gore, Jr., '40, Bellows Field. Walmanolo. 
Gaylotd P. Haaa, '29, 932 Tenth Avenue, Honolulu. Edward L. McCiimmon, '30, 4220 Carnation Place, Honolulu. Major Aloysins E. O'FUherty, ex. '22, Scofield Barracks, Honolulu. 
IN CHINA 

George B. Chao, '25, c/o Mother S t Cecilia, Hiao-Ming Girls' Middle School, 37 Rue Montauban, Shanghai. 
George E. Callinan, Jr., '32, cyo American Club, 

ShanghaL Ching Kay Dominic, '23, Chuan Chow, Amoy. John W. Hamilton, '32, Central Aircraft Mfg. Co., 
Loiwing, Yunnan. Rofcert Y. Khoo, '27, Tian Kee Hong, Amoy. Ralph Honer, ex. '33, 12 The Bund, Shanghai. Sister M. Ignatia, Maryknoll Convent, Waterloo 
Road, Kowloontong, Hong Kong. Sister M. Agatha Pattee. O.S.F., M.S., '27, Cath­olic Mission, Chowtsum, Shangtung. 
IN ENGLAND 
Second Lt. Joseph Kaltenback, ex. '41, U. S. Signal Corps Reserve, on temporary duty in England. 
Second Lt. Joseph M. Qninn, '39. TJ. S. Signal Corps Reserve, on temporary duty in England. Second Lt. Robert F. Sugnet, '41, U. S. Signal 

Carps Reserve, on temporary duty in England. John V. L. Flynn, '36, Royal Air Force. George Made '36. Royal Air Force. 
IN FRANCE LoBis P. Bar], '16, Editorial Dept. Paris Edition, New York "Herald-Tribune," Paris, Prance. 
IN ITALY Hi» Holiness Pope Pios XH, LittD., '36. Vatican City. 

Walter J. Dick, '35, Col Missionario Antonio Rosmini, San Giovanni Alia Porta Latina, Rome. Ber. John K. Mossio. '25, Casa San Carlo, Piazza 
San Carlo, AI Curso, N 437, Rome. Rev. George H. Sanvage, C.S.C., I.L.D., '18. 19 Via dei Cappucini, Rome IN BELGIDM Chailea De Landen, '09, Rue de la Loi 136, Brussels, IN HOLLAND Sister H. Alphonse Kaypriioff, O.S.F., Heythuigen. 
IN NEWFOUNDLAND BroAer Berthmans, F.S.C., '23, Christian Brothers of Ireland, S t John's. Botert J. Connolly, '40, Water Street East Harbor Grace. IN THE WEST INDIES Robert E. Kinney, ex. '43, a Jamaica base con­tractor. Charles J. Schwarz, '34, Box 718, Lago Oil and Transport Co.. Aruba, Curacao, Dutch W. I. 
IN THE CANAL ZONE William B. ABen, ex. '32, Balboa. WHUam J. Bocan, '41, Fort Clayton. Major K. S. Brady. JAGD, '24, Quany Heights. Lt. Savino W. Cavender. '35. Medical Corps. WHBan T. Cerri, '32. Lt. CoL Benjamin F. DuBois. U.S.A., Quarry Hts. Frandi E. Fitzpatri^ *39, Box 101, Balboa Hts. John T. Focarty. '23. P. O. Box 307, Balboa. Ensign Rassell L. Harris,' '41, IT. S. Naval Re­
serve. jMeph H. Harrington, '39, Box 759, Ancon. L t Andreir E. O'Keefe. '33. Fort Kobbe. GfUnerma Patterson, Jr., '11, 46 Peru Ave., 
Panama. Jahn S. P«ttingi]], '35. Emcnan L. Ryan. ex. '40. Prt. TkoBM F. Ryan, ex. '34, U.S. Air Corps. WnUaa J. Sheridan, Jr.. '34, Cristobal. Jaawi S. White, ex. '32, Aneon. 
Left to right at the Foothill Banquet: Coach Frank Leahy; Arch Ward, sports editor of the CUcas* xTrihow"; Father Hagh (TDraBell. proUeat: Toastmaater Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago "Sun." 


1,0(30 Honor 1941 Football Team 
One thousand guests attended the 22nd annual civic testimonial dinner, spon­sored by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley, Jan. 19, in the University dining hall, honoring Notre Dame's foot­ball team, the first undefeated squad since 1930. Wallace Ford, of Hollywood and the Broadway stage, was the "guest star" on the program, which included Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame; Coach Frank Leahy; Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chica­go Tribune; and Commander John E. Welchel, U.S.N., new coach at the United States Naval Academy. Mayor Jesse I. Pavey, of South Bend, delayed in Wash­ington, D. C, by illness, sent a telegram. 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, chair­man of the faculty hoard in control of athletics and vice-president of the Uni­versity, gave the invocation, and War­ren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Sun, served as toastmaster. Assistant coaches Ed McKeever and Joseph Mc-Ardle introduced the squad members. R. Floyd Searer, president of the club, in­troduced the toastmaster. 
Proceeds from the dinner were used to swell the club fund for scholarships to the University for deserving students from the South Bend area. One scholar­ship is in effect this year and another 
22nd Annual Civic Testimonial Banquet 
Is Sponsored by St. Joseph Valley 

Club; Wallace Ford Is Guest Star. 
•will be added each year until four are in force. 
Senior monogram winners who sat at the speakers table were Steve Juzwik, right halfback; Capt. Paul Lillis and Jim Brutz, tackles; Bob Maddock and All-American Bemie Crimmins, guards; Johnny_ Kovatch, end; Bob Hargrave, quarterback; Ray Ebli, tackle; Joe Laiber and Hercules Bereolos, guards; and Gordy O'Reilly, center. Brutz, voted the most valuable player by his team­mates, was presented with the trophy given by the Scholastic. 
Continuance of Notre Dame's athletic program for the duration, unless direct­ed otherwise by civil or military author­ities, was assured by Father O'DonnelL 
Father O'Donnell pointed out that Notre Dame's decision was "in the spirit" of the President's recent letter to Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis, high commis­sioner of baseball, urging continuance of the national pastime for the duration. 
"Of course," Father O'Donnell said, "there will be difficulties in maintaining such an athletic program but Notre Dame has overcome obstacles in the past and it can cope with these. If, however, proper civil or military authorities should ever decide that inter-coUegiate sports are not condiicive to the general welfare, Notre Dame will naturally .ac­cept the decision without question. 
"Our prime purpose, like that of all Americans, is to bring the war to an early and successful end." 
Confining his address cUefiy to things military. Father O'Donnell recalled that 2,000 Notre Dame students and alnmni ' answered their country's call in the first world war and that since the present un­limited emergency was declared se!veral members of the faculty have been or­dered to duty and granted leave of ab­
sence. 
"The war is brought close to us each time we remember in our prayers the eight Notre Dame men who have already given their lives for theiir country," he said. 
" 'Onward to victory" has been sung by generations of Notre Dame men. Since Pearl Harbor it has new and deeper meanings." 
High tribute was bestowed by Father 
O'Donnell upon Coach Frank Leahy and 
his assistants for guiding the Irish 
through an undefeated-seascm. He also 
.announced the apjiointment of Edward 
Kranse, '34, a major monogram winner 
in football, basketball and track at 
Notre Dame, as an assistant football 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Wallace Fort is made an Honorary Member of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valky hy K, Floyd Searer, president of the dab. Left to right. Commander John E. Welchel, new Navy coadi; Mr. Searer; Mr. Ford; Rev. John J. CavanauRh, CS.C., vice-president of the University. 
coach to replace William Cerney, '25. who resigned. Krause's appointment will be effective March 1. He -n-iU also be an instructor in the Department of Physical Education. 
Coach Leahy, in thanking every person who cooperated with him and his coaches during the past year, paid a glowing tribute to the 1941 squad as one which "stood for the same high qualities which we see in a united America today, a de­sire to excel, willingness to make sacri­fices, courage and a realization that any good cause is worth the effort of a worthy fight." 
"Our team, in truth, was a carbon copy of democracy," Leahy said. 
The Glee Club, under the direction of Prof. Daniel Pedtke, sang an impressive number, "The Song of the Free," vnth Jack White, '41, the arranger, serving as 


TEACHES AT CHICAGO 
Prof. Frank T. Flynn, A.M., '31, head of the Department of Social Work of the University, is teaching a course on the social treatment of crime in the Uni­versity of Chicago during the winter quarter. 
Prof. Flynn's appointment to the Chi­cago faculty will not interrupt his work at Notre Dame and comes as a recogni­tion of personal achievement and exper­ience in this particular field. 
As a member of the board of trustees of Indiana State prison, and an executive in the South Bend council of social agen­cies. Prof. Flynn has added practical experience to his studies. 
Two years in Chicago as a case worker narrator. The march of events significant in the history of the United States since its infancy were depicted in musical numbers sung by the club, accompanied by Jack MoUo^s orchestra. 

General chairman for the affair was Francis Jones. Those who headed com­mittees were Thomas Hickey, Jr., chair­man of general arrangements and Wil­lard F. Wagner, assistant chairman; Albert McGann, chairman of the head table committee; Chuck Sweeney, pro­gram chairman. Bob Cahill, ticket chair­man, and Herb Jones, chairman of fi­nance. General chairman in charge of guests was Bernard J. Voll, assisted by transportation chairman Burton Toepp; Joe Petritz, newspaper men and radio men; J. Arthur Haley, chairman of speakers and other guests; Bill Cerney, chairman of coaches, and Bemie Witucki, high school coaches' chairman. 
with the Travelers' Aid and with the federal transient bureau give him a. local background for his course at the Uni­versity of Chicago. He has been a mem­ber of the Notre Dame faculty since 1934. 
DISTRia AHORNEy MILLER 

Donald C. Miller, '25, one of the fam­ous "Horsemen," was notified Dec. 22 of his nomination by President Roosevelt as United States District Attorney for the northern district of Ohio, succeeding Em­erich B. Freed, who recently resigned. The nomination was later confirmed by the Senate. Don, a Cleveland lawyer, has been associated with his brother, Ray T. Miller, '14, former mayor of Cleveland. 



Pound Lectures at N. D. 
Insists WoHd Now Has Too Many Supermen. 
The world has its stomach full of su­
permen, Roscoe Pound, dean emeritus of 
the Harvard Law School, told his audi­
ence in his fourth and final lecture on 
"The Revival of Natural Law," in the 
College of Law at Notre Dame Jan. 26. 
A large group of lawyers from the St. 
Joseph Valley, many of them Notre 
Dame alimmi, were among the most in­
terested listeners at Dean Pound's lec­
tures. These and other persons every­
where will be glad to know that the 
Dean's lectures will be published soon by 
the Notre Dame Lawyer, student pub­
lication of the College of Law. 
In discussing his final topic, the "Fu­ture of Philosophical Jurisprudence," Dean Poimd, leading scholar in the field of American law, said that Catholic fac­ulties of law have always been a strong "right wing" in the conception of law on a basis of philosophy. 
In earlier lectures, on the definition of the natural law, on force and reason from the standpoint of natural law, and on natural law in legal history, the great author and teacher pointed out in bril­liant addresses the history of law and the various theories and efforts in apply­ing to the laws of the ages the ideals which men of all periods of history have felt should dictate the rules by which they live. 
In his concluding lecture. Dean Pound presented the conclusion that this age-old belief of man that the current law must be made agrainst a basis of an accepted standard of values, against some transcendent principles, has as its alternative for the realists only the predication of a race of supermen in jurisprudence and in politics, whose wis­dom and whose judgment in making, judging and enforcing the laws will be acceptable to their fellow-men. 
It was in this connection that Dean Pound expressed the belief that the world is surfeited with the "supermen" it now has. A belief in God, and in a natural law behind man-made law. Dean Pound concluded, would seem to be more easily acceptable in the light of the his­torical presence and influence of such be­liefs on the law of the world, than the unsupported belief that the rule of such supermen will overcome the problems of jurisprudence in any given era. 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
!!••••, Joka J., '3(, Naval Beaerre. Kmtnnde. Jafat P„ '38, Aimy.

In U. S. Military Service MoMC, JasKS T,. '40, Hq. Det. 5th Ord. Tkwning Bn., OJCT.C, Aberdeen Proving Grounds. Hd. 
The folloiving Notre Dame men have, since the December "Alumnus," been added to the Alumni Office list of those in service. Additions, addresses or changed addresses will, as always, be welcomed. 
Baeley, David, ex. '42, "The Flying Irish Squad­ron." Naval Air Base, Jacksonville, Fla. Bandnricfa, Joseph S., '36, Battery E, 67th Coast 
Artillery, A. A., Fort BraSB, N. C. Barbash, Francis C, '37, Army. Barrett, James E., '40, Aviation Cadet, U. S. Air 
Corps Training Detachment, Chickasha. Okla. 
Blois. Hiram J., Jr., ex. '41, Naval Aviation Flight Training, V. S. Naval Aviation Reserve Base, Floyd Bennett Field, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Broderick, Daniel T., Jr., '41, U.S. Naval Reserve, 521 Abbot Hall, 430 East Huron St, Chicago. 
Canale, Philip M., Jr.. '40, Army. Carpenter, Corp. William A., '39, Spec. Trps., 
32nd Signal Corps. Camp Livingston, La. Carroll, Richard J., '37. Hyan Field, Hemet, Calif. Carender, Capt. Savino W., '35. (M.D.), Canal 
Zone. Chlebowski, Chester John, ex. '35, Hq. Co., 2nd 
Battalion, 34th Armored Eegt., Fort Knox. Ky. Clarke, Philip J., '36, Camp Lee. Va. Condon, William P., '39, Army Reception Center. 
4th Co., Camp Shelby. Miss. Cox, Robert E., '41, 713 Room 137, tI.S.N.A.S., 
Jacksonville. Fla. Coyle, John, '37. Chanute Field, 111. Crawford, Bernard K., '40, Dept of Elect. Eng., 
U.S.N.A., Annapolis, Md. 
Cronin, Thomas L., '39, 1301st Service Unit, Headquarters Co., Reception Center, New Cum­berland, Pa. 
Cnshing, Bernard J., '40, APO 302, Btry. C, 47th 
F. A. Rcgt., Fort Bragg. N. C. 
Daley. Bernard N., '40, U. S. Marine Corps. Langley Field. Va. 
Darroozet, John L., Jr.. '40. Sgt., Sig. Hdq. & Hdq. Co.. A C Warning Service, 2nd Interceptor Command, County-City Bldg., Seattle, Wash. 
Dolan, Robert M., '40, Finance Oftice, Lowry Held, Denver, Colo. DoUard, Vincent E., '39, Athletic Dept.. U. S. Naval Training Station. Great Lakes, 111. Donovan, Daniel O., ex. '39, Oflicers Candidate School, Fort Knox. Ky. Donovan, Robert N., '40, U. S. .Naval Reserve, 451 Marlborough, Boston, Mass. Doyle, Capt. Albert F., '27, (M.D.) Medical Corps, Indiantown Gap, Pa. 
Dray, Joseph F., '39, Air Cadet, Box 1022, Okla­homa Air College, Barracks C, Oklahoma City, Okla. 
Dacey, R. Robert, '37, Ensign, Naval Reserve, Philadelphia, P^. 
Dudley, Joseph C, '35, Finance Dept. Air Corps Technical School. Sheppard Field. Wichita Falls. Tex. 
Dnggan, Vincent J., Melrose, Mass., '39, Service. 
Fensel, Albert John, ex. '42. U. S. Army Air Corps, Maxwell Field. Ala. Fensel, Francis P., '40. U. S. Army Air Corps. Maxwell Field. Ala. Ferriter, Dr. Thomas F., '30. Lt. in 104th Mass. Infantry. 
Fisher, William J., '34. 27th Air Base Squadron. Barracks 121, Bowman Field. Louisville. Ky. Foxel, Warren S., '30. Air Corps Unit of the War 
Dept, Wright Aeronautical Plant.' Paterson. 
N. J. Ford, John F., '37. Army. 
Gonring, Matthew N., '40, Hq. Btry. 3rd Regt. PARC, Fort Bragg, N. C. Gordon, John Robert. '40, Y3C, Outgoing Unit. 
U. S. Naval Training Station, Great Lakes, HI. Gregory, Arthnr C, '37, 56th Battalion, Camp Wolters. Te-x. 
Gnggisberg, L t John B., '38, U. S. Marine Ctorps, San Diego. Calif, (mail) 3S8 Belvedere St. LaJoUa, Calif. 
Haines, Gcoige Joseph, ex. '42, Pvt, Co. H, 113th Inf. Reg. Georgetown Armory, Georgetown, Del. Harris, Russell L.. '41. Ensign. U. S. Naval 
Reserve. Canal Zone. Harris, Walter J., '38, Flying Cadet, Maxwell Field. Montgomery. Ala. Harvey, Thaddens H., '40, Camp Forrest. TVllla­homa. Tenn.. 35rd M. P. Company. Hegarty, CapUin Francis A. (M.D.), '28, Medical Corps. Camp Meade. Md. Hennessy, John H., '41, Battery E, 32nd Bn., 8th 
Training Regt, Fort Sill, Okla. Herrick, Sherburne, '36, Naval Reserve. Hnfnagel, James M.. '40. Engineers Repl. Trng. 
Center. Fort Belvoir, Va. 
lacorctti, Hugo A., ex., '34. Army. 
Joyce, William L., '40, Hq. Det, I.R.T.C.. Camp Wolters, Tex. 
Kaltenback, Lt Joseph C, ex. '42, U. S. Army service. American Embassy. London. England. Kelly, Major Raymond J., ex. '14, Director of the 
6th Civilian Defense Region. Kennedy, Joseph B., ex. '40. Army. Knobel, George F., ex. '39, U. S. Naval Air Sta­
tion, Corpus Christi, Tex. Knknia, Thaddens J., ex. '40, U. S. Naval Air Station, Corpus Christi, Tex. Kankle, Edward B., ex. '42, Air Cadet, Sqd. 1, Flight B., Element 8, Kelly Field, Te.x. 
Lacey, L t John W., '38, Middletown Air Depot, Middletown, Pa. Lahcy, L t James H., '38. U. S. Marine Corps. Navy Yards, Philadelphia, Pa, 
Lamberto. R. Nidiolas. '38. Aviation Cadet, Pilot Repl. Center, Flight B, Squadron 3, Kelly Field. Tex. 
LeMire, Robert E., '38, Pvt., Co. D, 63rd Bn., Camp Wolters, Tex. Leppig, George E., '28, Marine Gunner, U. S. Marine Corps. 
Loreric, Aloysios Nicholas, ex. '42, Hdq. Co., 152nd Snd (R), APO 38, Camp Shelby, Miss. Loughran, John H.. ex. '42, U. S. Naval Air 
Station. Corpus Christi. Tex. Lusson, William M., '39, Camp Wolters. Tex., Headquarters Co., I.R.T.C. 
Malloy, Patrick H., '36, Ensign, U. S. Navy. Washington. D. C. Haloney. John M., '36. Ensign, U. S. Naval Reser\*e. Mathis, William D.. Jr., '40, Army. Mclntyre, John A., '40, Cadet U. S. Naval Air Station. Corpus Christi. Tex. McNamara, Charles A. '39, Btry. 3. 32nd Bn., 8th Regiment U. S. Field Artillery, Fort Sill, Olila. 
Metzlcr, James Patrick, '40. Marine Officers Training. M. C. S. Det Marine Barracks, Quantico, Va. 
Miholick, Matthew J., Jr., '41, Aviation Cadet, Basic A.C.TD., Co. C. Baker's Field, Calif. Monaihan, Charies P., '38, Aberdeen Proving 
Grounds, Md. Montedonico, James H., '40, Army. Mooney, Thomas L., ex., '40, Army. 
UmOamer. Jsha K. Jr., '41. Naval Aviation FC^t Training, V. S. Naval Aviation Reserve Base Floyd Bennett Field, Brooklyn, N. T. 
Itnray. Lt. Clay M.. '37, U.S. Marines in Iceland. 
CBiien, Jeha J., '40, Ordnance Training Center, Co. D, Tth Battalion, Aberdeen Proving Ground, Md. 
O'Cainor. Pierce J.. '28, 2nd Lt , 9th Cavalry, Camp F^mston, Kans. O'Leaiy, Capt Lawience A.. '31, Co. I. 1st S. T. Regt, Fort Benning. Ga. 
Patteraao. Jchn W.. Jr.. '41. Army. 
PflawB. Capt Daniel J.. '32, Niagara Falls Plant Chemical Warfare Service, 3163 Buffalo Ave., Niagara Falls, N. Y. 
Pinem. RayMond.. '41, Co. C. 27th MTB, Gamp Grant HI. PogUano. Felix, Jr.. '41, Hq. & Hq. Det, 1310 
S. U. (CARTC), Fort Eustis, Va. Powers, L t Charies F., Jr„ '31, 62nd Engineer Co.. Fort George G. Meade, Md. 
Patnam. PatriA D,. '41, Squadron 2, Southern Aviation Training Center, Decatur, Ala. 
Qairk, William F.. ex. '36, Naval Reserve. 
Badliefci, ThMus F.. ex. '38, Bat A., 18 C. S., 
Fort Stevens; Ore. ReiUy, Lous J., '40, Air Corps. Reilly Thomaa E., ex. '42, Naval Aviation Flight 
Training, U. S. Naval Aviation Reserve Base, Floyd Bennett Held, Brooklyn, N. Y. Roeap. Jaaws Ebaer, '39, Co. L, Barracks 481, 7th 
QH, Trg. Regt, CUnp Lee, Va. Borke, Edward F,. ex. '39, Manila, P. I. Syaa, Clarence J,, ex. '42, Corporal, Co. B, lUrd 
Ordnance Training Battalion, Aberdeen pteving 
Ground, Md. Ryan, Joseph A., '40, Flying cadet in Callfbmia. Ryan. TiMmaa F., ex. '34, U. S. Air Corps, Canal 
Zone. 
ScUayer. Charlea K,. '41, Army Air Corps. 
Schndd. Tkemaa B., '40. Co. M, 2nd Qnartennaster Replacement Training Center, Fort Francis E. Warren, Wyo. 
Sckwartiel, Gerard A., '39, Mechanized Cavalry, Fort Knox, Ky. Sheedy. Ensign Daniel C . '39, ACTS, Naval Air Station, Norfolk, Va. 
Simmons, William Craig, '41, Cadet, Barracks 703, Room 214, U. S. Naval Air Station, Jack­sonville, Fla. 
Solon. Edward J., ex. '39, Jefferson Barracks, Mo. Saaen. Joseph P., '41, Officers Training School, Fort Knox, Ky. Strahan, Ber. William Speer. '17, Army Chap­lain, Fort Kamehameha. Hawaii. 
Tennes. Msnty J.. '28, Captain, U. S. Air Corps, Phoenix, Ariz. 
Vanderrssrt. Albert A.. '41, Co. B, 83rd Inf. IVaining Bn.,.Camp Roberts, Calif. Veeneaun, J. Keanetli, '38, Bn. H-69, Coast Artillery (A.A.), San Diego. Calif. 
WaUnn. A. Joseph, ex. '38. U. S. Naval Air 
Station. Corpus Christi. Tex.' Webster. Thsauu J.. '41, Marine Corps. Weasels, John E., '39, Headquarters & Headquarters 
Co, Finance Section, 3rd Armored Diviaon. Camp Polk. La. WitUas. Capt Donald J.. '27. Air Corps, Chief. Public Relations Branch, Wright Fid., Dayton, O. 
Yaeger. Dr. Leslie A.. '17. Lieut. Col., U. S. Amy, Medical Inspector of 44th Div. 

••••••••••••••••< 


Nohe 3>ame liooki 
•••••«••••••*•••< 
DEMOCRACY OR ANARCHY? A Study of Proportional Represntation by F. A. Hermens, Review of Politics, Notre Dame, Ind. 1941 
Dr. Hermens here shows up a scheme which has generally been accepted by Liberals as being a highly desirable ele­ment in democratic government. He gives us the history of proportional represen­tation in the post-war European democ­racies of Italy, Germany, Belgium, Ire­land, the Netherlands, Scandinavia and Switzerland, and shows how it has every­where brought about a multiplication of parties each with a stereotyped world view and a complete unwillingness to compromise, and how this in turn led to the collapse of democracy in Italy and Germany and its paralysis almost every­where else. He then examines the history of P.E. in American municipalities and finds much the same result, although, of course, on a much less disastrous scale. 
This failure of P.R. in practice, Dr. Hermens shows, is to be expected, be­cause the scheme is wrong in theory, be­ing based on the assumption that the thing most needful in a democratic gov­ernment is the opportunity for all the points of view current among its citizens to be represented in the ultimate institu­tion of government. But this is not true. The great need in democratic govern­ment is a scheme which will allow popu­larly chosen deputies to come to definite 

•and speedy decisions in all problems which may come up. If this cannot be done, there is no government in the prop­er sense. Our traditional majority system makes possible these clear cut decisions; 
P.R. does not. Hence P.R. fails in prac­tice. 
If you wish to read a reasoned defense 
of our own American system by one who 
is thoroughly acquainted with it and 
with others, you should go to this book. 
—^WILLIS D . 'NUTTING 
The name of Harry Sylvester, who sold his first short story when a senior at Notre Dame in 1930, is becoming a somewhat familiar one to readers of magazine short stories. Harry's pub­lished stories now total 100. Some of them have been included in the O'Brien annual anthology. Best Short Stories. Others have been reprinted in England 

and Sweden. His first full-lengtii novel, Brooklyn TMet probably the best con-Dearly Beloved has just appeared. /tribution to American church history in 1941." 
Eddie of Jackson's Gang by Brother Ernest, C.S.C, '25, was published recent­The Curriculum of the Catholic Highly by St. ^Anthony's Guild Press, Pater-School for Boys by Brother William, son, N. J. It is the story of no ordinary C.S.C., Ph.D., '23, supervisor of schools 
boy, who escaped from a Fa^-like of the Brothers of the Cong:regation of school of thievery into which he had Holy Cross, is a doctoral dissertation been decoyed. Action abounds in the which was submitted to the University of story and leads up to a surprising clim­Chicago. It is an objective appraisal of 
ax. Obviously, Brother Ernest knows his the curriculum of the Catholic high boys and how to entertain them. This is school on the basis of data gathered by the fourth of his juveniles to be pub­means of questionnaires to pupils, grad­lished by the Guild press. uates, and principals of high schools, by an extensive examination of textbooks and school records, and by visits to a selected group of schools in the Middle 
The Catholic Church in Indiana, 1789­
West. The book was published by The ISSi, by the Rev. Thomas F. McAvoy, Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame. 
C.S.C, '25, was pronounced by the 


GIFTS 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
J. B. Fleming, Dallas, Texas, in honor of his parents. The Mr. and Mrs. Walter Lee Fleming, Sr., Scholarship. For details see page 4. 
Anonymous, for the Bureau of Economic Research ?6,000 Arthur A. Lawder, Sr., Chicago, for the Fund for Deserving 
Students ,. 1,000 Edward A. Mahoney, Canton, Ohio, for the College of Law 500 Howard J. Rohan, '15, Cincinnati, for special equipment for the 
Students' Infirmary 500 Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Breitung, Ada, Okla., for the Dom Greg­oiy Student Loan Fimd. Amount to be determined. Initial con­
tribution 400 Anonymous, for the Thomas J. McKeon Memorial Fund 350 Anonymous, in memory of Mr. and Mrs. Francis E. Schneider, for 
• the Nieuwland Memorial Fund 250 Dr. Stanley A. Clark, South Bend, for the Fund for Deserving 
Students 150 William W. Huisking, '34, New York City, for the President's Fund 100 Hermann Feigenheimer, Chicago, for the President's Fund 50 Frank H. Plaisted, South Bend, for the Fund for Deserving 
Students .'. 25 Anonymous, Alumnus '25, South Bend, for the Fund for Deserving 
Students 1 
Anonymous benefaction for series of lectures by Dean Roscoe Pound, of Harvard, under the auspices of the College of Law. 
L. B. Andrus, '10, Indianapolis, for the library of the College of Law. Thirty volumes from his personal library. 
Robert E. Daly, '16, Pittsburgh, for the University Library. Two rare volumes of "The Life of Christ," by J. James Tissot. 
Mrs. Joseph H. Thompson, Nashville, for the University Museum. A zucchetto, formerly worn by the late Pope Pius X. 
Mrs. Anna H. Huntington, New York City, for the University Art Galleries. A bronze, entitled "Monkey on a Stick." 
Mrs. Anne Kremer Post, Washington, D. C, for the University Library. Two volumes of "John Hanson of Mulberry Grove," by the late J. Bruce Kremer. 
HUGH O'DONNELL. C.S.C, President of the University 

ONWARD TO ViaORY! 
(Continued from pase 2) While I am on the subject of emerg­encies that have arisen out of the draft, I want to say a word to those of you— the seniors especially—for whom the army is more or less imminent. If you are called to service before the end of the term, see the dean of your college and explain the circumstances to him. I assure you that you will receive a sym­pathetic hearing and every possible con­sideration. Because of conditions that the war has forced upon us, the University Council has decided'to accelerate Notre Dame's academic program by adopting the pol­icy of dividing the schoolyear into three terms. This system, recommended by the presidents' conference in Baltimore, is being put into effect by several other schools. Under it, the academic year will coincide almost exactly with the calendar year. There will be sufiScient time be­tween terms for whatever vacation seems to be in order for a nation at war. Ac­cordingly, the semester examinations will begin Monday, January 19th, and the date of registration for the next term will be the following Monday. And com­pete details relating to the three-semester program will be announced very soon by the Director of Studies. 
By all means those of you who expect to register for military service next month should enroll in the second semes­ter. The reason is that you may not be called until the semester is over, but if you should be, and your academic work is satisfactory, I shall direct the deans of the colleges to give special considera­tion to your case, so certain credit may be received for work done. 
What will be the advantage of an accelerated program? Its major purpose will be to give the student of military age a better chance to finish his educa­tion before he is called to the service, and to prepare him to discharge the du­ties that his country may place upon him. The boy who must leave school for military or other reasons, furthermore, should experience a minimum of incon­venience in withdrawing, or, for that matter, in re-entering. 
Long before actual hostilities began— even before the period of, unlimited emergency was declared — Notre Dame was devoting a large part of her ener­gies and facilities to national defense. That is what you would expect from a school whose record of patriotism began on the very day that Father Sorin first landed in ttie United States. 
For the past two years we have been offering some sixty college-grade courses in defense to industrial workers in the St. Joseph Valley area. Within the past twelve months more than 150 students The Notre Dame Alumnus 

completed the ground courses given at Notre Dame in the Civilian Pilot Train­ing program. Our scientists and engi­neers have been working overtime. Last September we were happy to wdeome to the campus the unit of the Naval Re­serve Officers Training Corps. Under the capable direction of Captain Bnmett and his efficient staff it has become, even in these few months, a part of the fam­ily of Notre Dame. 
Now that war has actually come, the Notre Dame program is being enlarged and intensified, not for defense, bat for victory. For that reason, we have formed the Committee on War Activities, with Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., as chairman. In adition to its duties of co­ordination and correlation, this Commit­tee will issue, frcnn time to time, infor­mation of general interest to the student body. When necessary, I shall supple­ment its bulletins with iiersonal mes­sages. 
11 
. Sevoal members of the Ifuiilty who hold reaerve' cnwimisaiona in the aimy have been called to dn^ and ham been granted leave of absoiee. OUiers have beoi assigned to other institutions where they are working on defense projects.. Many of the priests whom yon know are now diapJains, and several more have offered their services. Hundreds of sta­dmts, former students, and ahmmr have answered the call, and the war is hroo^^t very dose to as each time we remieinber in onr prayers the agbt Notre Dame men who have already given their lives for thdr country. 
Now I come to a matter that apparent­ly has been giving yon great coneem. I refer, of course, to the rnmor that the Navy Department will soon bqpn to use Notre Dame as a base for training naval aviaticm eadets.~Over the years I have learned scanething of the students' genius for elaboration and decoration, hot I must say that this time yon broke all known records. I can hear yoa say, "Why 

The University acknowledges with deep gratitmde the fottowing gifts to the Centenary Fimd: 
ALUMNI PARTICIPATION 

Anonymous, Member of the Class of '41 ..$5,000 Anonymous, Member of the Class of 18 _ _ 3,000 Walter Duncan, '12, LaSalle, IlL . _ 2.000 Frank R. Lockard, 19, ToledOj Ohio .. _ 1,500 Mr. and Mrs. Bernard 3. Voll (17), South Bend ..1,000 
Clyde E. Broussard, '13, Beaumont^ Texas Anonymous, Memb^ of tiie Class of '40 Anonymous, Member of the Class of '35 Hon. Roger J. Kiley, '23, Chicago . Aaron H. Hnguenud, '22, South Bend Pasquale M. Pirchio, '25, South Boid (defense bond) ... Paul J. Smith, 16, New York C«y Rev. Charles J. Williams, 18,-RantoDl, HI. John Q. Adams, '26, New York City Carl H. Fricke, Jr., '39, Altadena, Calif. ...  _.._„____._  600  600  275  100  50  50  50  50  40  10  
FRIENDS  OF THE  UNIVERSITY  
P. F. McShane, Chicago James E. Coston, Chi« ^ Ray P. Tennes, Chicago . : Mr. and Mrs. Danid J. Schuyler, Chicago Charles C. Kerwin, Chicago Charles D. Maginnis, Boston .. Robert H. Rolfs, West Bend, Wis. Thomas Taylor, Scranton David Fischgrond, South Bend Paul Mullaney, Qiicago Matthew S. McGum, Chicago Matthew A. Reynolds, New Haven  _$5,000 _ 1,000 _ 500 _ 200 _ 100 _ 100 _ 100 .. 100 - 75 50 25 25  

The University is also grateful for special favors to the Departmoit of Public Rdations by: Hugh E. Dean, Detroit; E; B. Dnnigan, Chicago; Grattan T. Stanford, '04, trustee. New York City. 
HUGH O'DONNELL. dS-C, ~ President of the iTniveT^ty 

didn't somebody in authority tell us what it was all about?" And to that I can truthfully answer that you have known just as much about the matter as the ad­ministration did, or does to this hour. 
Now these are the facts. Last month the Navy made a survey of Notre Dame, as it did of some other schools, with the tentative idea of using our facilities— provided they were suitable, and if ar­rangements could be made — to train cadets. There the matter still stands, all rumors, broadcasts, and newspaper stor­ies to the contrary notwithstanding. 
If the Navy does decide that Notre Dame's facilities can be used to advan­tage, we will accept the opportunity to be of service as an honor that comes to us because of our cooperation with the gov­ernment in the Civil War, the Spanish-American War, and the first World War. If you doubt that Notre Dame has felt the impact of past wars, or if you think that we are faced by conditions which are entirely strange to us, study the his­tory of Notre Dame, or, better still, take another look at the mute testimony that you will find on the bronze tablets of the Memorial Door. 
Naturally, you want to know where you stand if the Navy should decide that a medley of the "Victory March" and "Anchors Aweigh" would bring discom­fort to the enemy, and I can answer your question without hesitation. Contrary to rumor, you will not be asked to leave; neither will you be asked to seek living quarters off the campus. 
Whether or not the naval cadets be­come our guests, I grant you that life here at Notre Dame may not be as com­fortable as it has been in the past. Un­doubtedly you will be asked to make some sacrifices. So will the president, the oflScers of administration, and the facul­ty. But if you are as honest with your­selves as I know you are, you vdU be the first to admit that our hardships, what­ever they may be, will be trifling as compared with those of your friends and classmates who are already in the ser­vice. Naturally, if the resident popula­tion of Notre Dame has a sudden in­crease, we shall have to make more in­tensive use of our housing facilities. . 
Now you know as much about the rela­tions existing between the Navy and Notre Dame as anybody on the campus. Yon will be told as soon as anything de­velops. I shall see to it personally. 
Before leaving this subject, I want you to know that I am not finding fault with you. On the contrary, I understand your very natural concern and sjnnpa­thize with it. Your spirit since Pearl Harbor has been everything that your parents, your school, or your country 
could ask, and I honor you for it. 
Notre Dame is not going to operate under a new dispensation. Any changes that she may make in your interests, and in the interests of our common cause, are matters of policy that do not affect the character, purposes, and int^^ty of the University. Notre Dame can make no changes in principle. As long as there is a Notre Dame she will continue to train, in her own way, engineers, law­yers, chemists, accountants, teachers, linguists, and philosophers. For the pres­ent, she is putting special stress upon work being done in the Colleges of Sci­ence and Engineering because of its im­mediate importance to the task at hand, which is winning the war. But Notre Dame insists today, as she has always in­sisted, upon the education of the whole man. Notre Dame still emphasizes the discipline of the spiritual, the intellec­tual, and the moral. At Notre Dame you will always find applied the first prin­ciples from which all intellectual devel­opment proceeds. You will also always find importance given to the training of the will. 
As Notre Dame men you know why. The university worthy of the name plans not for a year or a decade, but for gen­erations and centuries. It survives dicta­tors and dynasties. Its goals depend, not upon the rise and fall of temporal powers, but upon the unchanging rela­tionship of man to the final end ordained by the God Who created him. 
Just now we are engaged in a strugf^e against forces that, denying God, deny the dignity and integrity of the human personality. In this crisis the University has two duties. The first is the obvious duty of helping to overthrow the false principles that make man the creature of the state. The second, though more remote in its effects, is equally binding. It is to train men for post-war leader­ship. Peace, when it comes, must be a lasting peace built upon fundamental morality with its concepts of rights and duties as they apply to individuals and nations. To neglect tiie second obligation, or to be placed in such position t£at it can not be discharged, defeats the pur­pose of the first. Please God, Notre Dame will survive this cataclysm as she has survived cataclysms in the past. 
The joy of living is the joy of giving. Our birth is a gift from God made pos­sible through the medium of our parents. Our growth and development, under God, is usually a gift from father and mother until we become of age. God-givm tal­ents must be developed if we are to ful­fill our purpose—and there is joy in the quest. The society in which we liv^ wiOi the famUy as the unit, is a gift frtm our ancestors, and the joy tiiey found in . 
helping to create it is known only to God and themselves. It is our sacred duty to preserve it. 

All through life we give of ourselves in order to receive earthly recognition, assuming, of course, that our donation is based on true principles of thinking and acting, with our objective as children of God, our destiny. And then, realizing as we should that here we have not a last­ing city, there come every so often the horrors of war for the purpose of chas­tisemoit to nations that have forgotten their God. Such is permitted by the Cre­ator to bring forcibly to mind that God is a g^reat and jealous God Who will not have strange gods before Him. 
It is aU-important, therefore, that our beloved country.get back to God as it sets out to defend itself against the hordes of gangsterism. The struggle may be a long, hard, bloody one. It may exact of some of you the supreme sacrifice. Most assuredly it will, in the long run, call for sacrifice, privation, and suffering from all of us. Yet, in the refining pro­cess we recognize our patriotic duty which has been a glorious part of our educational heritage. Religion and pa­triotism are intimately entwined in No­tre Dame's philosophy. The joy of giving is the joy of living because this old school has always insisted on training its stu­dents not only in how to make a living, but also in how to live well in order to die well. 
The past is gone; the future is hid­desx from our eyes; only the present is with us. It contains a challenge which Notre Dame accepts. And she accepts it, not in a spirit of defeatism or fatalism as the false prophets of materialism who caused this war would have us accept it. She accepts it with the realization that there is a Divine Providence that guides and protects her as It does her sons everywhere. She accepts it with a true appreciation of the philosophy of the Cross, that to suffer is to live, not here, but hereafter. 
Onward, therefore, with the Command­er-in-Chief in the course that he will chart for the nation to attain its goal though the horizon at times be dark and the day long. 
Onward with Notre Dame in answer to our country's call until victory is won, so that together we may write another page in the annals of Alma Mater. 
Onward, united, to preserve the Amer­ican heritage, conceived in the Declara­tion of Independence, bom in struggle and sacrifice, and handed down to us for safe-keeping so that, in Lincoln's words, "government of tiie people, by the people^ for the people shall not perish from the earth." 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
By JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. '32 




ATHLETICS 
WARTIME ATHLETIC PROGRAM 

Continuance of Notre Dame's program of intercollegiate and interhall athletics for the duration of the war was assured by the Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president, at the annual football ban­quet in mid-January. 
"Our decision is in the spirit of the policy recently adopted at the Baltimore conference of presidents of American colleges and imiversities. It is also in the spirit of President Roosevelt's letter to Commissioner Landis on the subject of continuing baseball. Of course," Fath­er O'Donnell said, "there will be difficul­ties in maintaining an athletic program, but Notre Dame has overcome obstacles in the past, and it can cope with these. On the other hand, if the proper civil or military authorities should ever de­cide that intercollegiate sports are not conducive to the general welfare, Notre Dame will naturally accept the decision without question." 
"Notre Dame's athletes are a part of that Notre Dame which has known the impact of past wars, and which has vol­unteered the fullest cooperation in this one," Father O'Donnell stated. "The majority of Notre Dame's friends see her athletes only while they are on public exhibition, competing in the sports in which they excel. We at Notre Dame know them as they are when they are not in the limelight—we see them in the halls, in the daily life on the campus, in the classroom, and in the chapel. We know the kind of men they turn out to be after they leave school and take their places in the world in order to apply the talents developed at Notre Dame. Many of us know the part that competition in athletics has played in moulding scores of men whose citizenship in war and peace is a source of pride to their Alma Hater. I could not even begin to call the roll.in the time at my disposal." 
Details of Notre Dame's wartime ath­letic program remain to be worked out by the faculty board in control of ath­letics, of which the Rev. John J. Cavan­augh, C.S.C, vice-president of the Uni­versity, is chairman. The coaches and Athletic Director Frank Leahy will make recommendations from time to time to the faculty board, which in turn will submit aU major questions to Fath­er O'Donnell for final decision. 
The new three-semester program of the University has raised a number of questions concerning eligibility and the general athletic program that will he answered in due time. The board con­sidered many of these questions at a recent meeting, but made no major final decisions pending further development of the three-semester projgram. One of the possibilities we are at liberty to disclose at this time is that of summer schedules in track, baseball, golf, and/or tennis, providing the size of the summer enroll­ment makes such action feasible. The summer program will also depoid upon what demand there is for contest £rom other schools. Undoubtedly the interiiall 

•program will be carried through the summer semester. There is also a possi­bility that freshman schedules of some sort may be played to accommodate va­rious service teams who want contests. 
No decision has been reached regard­ing the possibility of freshman eligibility or relaxation of the eight-sonester rule. It is known that all students, whether athletes or not, may withdraw firom school at any semester and return at any semester without losing ground. The academic program has been set up in such a fashion. 
As for the post-season competitions in track and golf, sponsored by the N. C. 
A. A., and in tennis, undoubtedly seniors who have been graduated in May will be eligible, as in the past, to compete in these events. Whether sophomores start­ing their third semesters in late May 
BILL CERNEY RESIGNS 
The resignation of William J. Cemey, '25, as assistant football coach and freshman baseball coach was annotmced in late December. 
Bill, as a spectacular fullback, was the "Fifth Horsemrai" on the Four Horsemen teams of '22, '23 and '24. He led DePaul University, Chicago, to eight victories in nine games as football coach in 1925-26, and then spent eight years as backfield coach and freshman base­ball coach at the University of North Carolina. He returned to Notre Dame in 1934 as "B" team coach and freshman baseball coach. He served also as one of the prin­cipal football scouts. 

or early June will be allowed to compete . in the June contests is swnething f^ t will probably be decided by the spansor­
ing agencies. 

One thing is certain: the faculty board, will do everything possible to allow eadi student to attain his maximum inter­coIl^:iate competition without any low­ering of Notre Dame's hi ^ entrance and eligibility requirements. The good of the boy involved will not be overlodced, as it so often is by the so-called refoimeis of intereoll^nate athletics. The aothnr­ity for. this opinion is a i^anee at the history of the hoard and a knowledge of the pers<mnel of the present board which while no one is more jealous of Notre Dame's hi{^ ranking academically, still believes in athletics for the athlete who ii also a atadent. 
BASKETBALL 

Now that he has found his combina­tion, only a severe attack of jitters by the talented sophomore key men can ke ^ Dr. Keogan's boys from giving a splendid account of themselves in the remaining games. 
Said starting combination indndes four sophomores and a junior, weD reinforced by a speedy second team of reserves and sophomores. Bobby Fang^t, the 6-foot 5-ineh sophomore tennis star, has not only taken over the scoring lead, but he is well in front of a weU-balaneed field with 100 {Mints for 13 games. Char­lie Butler, junior forward who' led through' ten games, is second -with 78.. Cy Singer, junior guard whose three consecutive baskets on as many of his special swoop shots set the Madison Square Garden crowd on its eoUeetrve ear last season, is third with 71 and gaining fast. Johnny Niemiera and John (Buster) Hiller, a pair of fast, aggres­sive soph<miore forwards, have 71 and 69, respectively. Bob Rensberger, junior guard who started the early games be­fore being slowed down by a foot injury, has made 53. Frank Quinn, handsrane senior center whose classic features belie his love of rough action, has made 34 points. 
The curroit starting combination in­cludes Fang^t at center, Hiller and Nie­miera at forwards. Singer at one guard and Say Kuka, a large l&-year dd, at the other guard. Kuka has made only 22 points in 11 games, but his alrility to 

palm the ball, pass it effectively, and to capture rebounds has earned him a chance to learn more—^in competition— about shooting and guarding. 
The second unit, which is occasionally the starting five, lists Butler and Capt. Art Pope at forwards, Quinn at center, and Rensberger and Orlando Bonicelli at the guards. Capt. Pope occasionally appears at a guard post. Another new­comer who has been used successfully as . a spot player is Frank Curran, smallest man on the roster, but one of the most aggressive. Bothered by a weak knee and inability to get into top shape following last summer's operation, George Sobek, the only two-year letterman on the squad has been used sparingly. But Singer was late hitting his stride, too, and Sobek may finish fast. 
After see-sawing through their Decem­ber schedule, the Irish began clicking New Year's eve, and they have continued to click, with only one sputter, ever since. The story of their success is best told in an account of the defeats to date. Great Lakes has probably the greatest collection of talent ever assembled in the country. At that Notre Dame once held a 29 to 19 lead, and was beaten only in the closing minutes by a gent they'd always been able to stop before, viz., Charley Caliban formerly of Detroit IT. 
The Irish came up even with Wiscon­sin's defending national champions at 35-all late in the game at Madison, but the Badgers got eight more points—all on free throws—^to make it 43 to 35. Illi­nois, which scored the only decisive vic­tory of the year over the Irish, 48 to 29, is leading the Big Ten race and hasn't been extended yet. Butler got off to an 11 to 1 lead at Indianapolis, and Notre Dame never caught up. Shumacher of Butler, who collected 19 points, got only one field goal in the second half, after Assistant Coach Eay Meyer had made the indicated defensive adjustments— but it was too late then. 
The Irish preserved their great Jan­uary record of never having lost at home during that month since 1933. They lost only one January game away from home 
.—^to Butler—marking the first time the Irish lost, home or away, in January smce 1938. 
• Complete scores follow: 
Notre Dame, 49 : Franklin, 30. Notre Dame, 46; Great Lakes. 52. Notre Dame, 51: St. Louis. TJ., 22. Notre Dame, 35; Wisconsin, 43. Notre Dame, 46; Michigan, 40. Notre Dame, 29; Illinois, 48. Notre Dame, 40; North-westem. 36. Notre Dame, 39; Harvard, 31. Notre Dame, 34; Washineton U., 31. Notre Dame, 51; Syracuse, 35. Notre Dame, 43; Butler, 49. Notre Dame, 61; Northwestern, 43. Notie Dame; 52: Hichiean State, 49. Notre Dame, 576; Opponents, 509. 

TRACK As this was written. Bill (T-Bone) Mahoney, now a mature coach of 25 summers and one complete season, had on hand what is prospectively one of the strongest Notre Dame teams of all time, and very little in the way of a schedule. The Irish were slated to open Feb. 2 against Indiana, but Coach Billy Hayes of the Hoosiers declined, partly, he ex­plained, because of an absence of hurd­lers and field event men, and partly be­cause he has been too busy with a war­time physical education program to do much track coaching. 
The Irish were slated to go into heavy production against Illinois at Champaig^n Feb. 14, having been represented before that date in the Millrose games in New York by the mile relay team and Keith O'Rourke, high jump ace. The mile quar­tet of Gene Fehlig, Dick Tupta, George Schiewe, and Capt. Eay Eoy is shaping up even better than last year whoi it set an all-time Notre Dame record of 
3:15.9 in winning the Drake Relays title. O'Rourke won a small wager from Coach Mahoney when he leaped three or four inches over 6 feet 4 inches in a recent workout. He did 6 feet 7% inches to take third place in the N.C.A.A. meet last Jime, setting an all-time Notre Dame record. 
Two other all-time Notre Dame record holders grace the '42 roster. They are Jim Delaney, who set new marks both indoor and outdoor in the shot put, mak­ing the seventh best throw in the world last year (O'Rourke's record leap was the fifth best recorded on the globe); and Bill Dillon, who turned in a :14.6 performance in the 120-yard highs. 
The Irish milers, headed by OlUe Hunter, twice runner-up in the N.C.A.A. cross-country meet, are doing nicely, thank you. Hunter, Frank Conforti, and Tony Maloney ran a dead heat in 4:20 in practice recently. 
The sprints will be handled by Jay Gibson, who was slowed by a foot injury last year, and by Owen (Dippy) Evans, who plays a little football in the autumn. Evans was as fast as Gibson in high school, if not faster, and they should make a sure-fire team. 
Bill Nicholson, son of the late coach John P. Nicholson; Joe Prokop, and Schiewe complete the hurling corps, Pro­kop and Schiewe in the lows. 
Roy, who dominated the 440 last year, 

" gets a daily argument from Fehlig, Tup­ta, and Schiewe, although Tupta is being used mostly in the half-mile. Austin Jones, a sophomore, is also a promising quarter-miler. 
Conforti and Maloney will probably stress the mile, leaving Hunter available for the two-mile. Hunter will have the moral support of a pair of promising sophomores, Walter Barry and Walter Brehmer, who are now running about 9:50. 

Ezra Smith has been conscripted, leav­ing only Jack Wietoff in the pole vault, but he's another junior who's £:oing along better than ever in practice. Thir­teen feet has been his ceiling, but he reaches that height frequently. 
O'Rourke will be supplemented by an­other newcomer named'—^you guessed it! —^Murphy. Charles Murphy, of Univer­sity City, Mo., is a junior who was held out of competition last year because of book trouble, but he's eligible now, and he's been doing 6 feet, 4 inches. If he can't beat O'Rourke (and it is no cinch that he won't), he at least wants to equal records of Johnny and Vince Mur­phy, captains of another day at Notre Dame. 
Delaney wDl not get a whole lot of help in the shot, mainly because Wally Ziemba's knees are both full of bmn car­tilage, Ed Sullivan is but of competition with knee damage, and Herky Bereolos is the only reserve available. But Her­cules is as strong as advertised, and his form is improving daily under the tute­lage of Assistant Coach Al Handy. 
William Kelly, a sophomore from An­dover, Mass., rates a mention here as a half-mile prospect. Coach Mahoney says he's probably capable of 1:58 indoor. Ed Dunham, another fine half-miler as a freshman last year, has been conscripted. 
Feb. 7—^Uillrose Games at New York. Feb. 14—^Illinois at Champaign. Feb. 20—MichiBan at Ann Arbor (night). March 6-7—Central Collegiates at East Lansing. Harch 14—Butler relays at Indianapolis. Uarch 21—Chicago Relays at Chicago. 
• FENCING 
Information on Prof. Walter M. Lang­ford's 1942 fencers is scanty, and we gather that Prof. Langford doesn't know a whole lot more about his squad than we do. With several aces graduated or conscripted, he was all set to give up as, on Jan. 24, he sent his untried squad into its first match with a veteran Michi­gan State team. The Irish, however, came from behind, got ahead by a com­fortable margin, let the Spartans catch up, and finally won, 14 to 13. One Mar­leau Cragin, of Las V^as, Nev., won three epee bouts and lost none to swing the decision. In the day's final bout, he scored the first two touches, went into "a 2-alI deadlock, and then stuck his Spart­an adversary for the touche that decided the bout and the match. The remainder of the fencing schedule is as follows: 
Jan. 31—Purdue at Lafayette (Tentative date). 
Feb. 7—Cincinnati U. at Cincinnati. 
Feb. 10—Illinois at Notre Dame. 
Feb. 21—Chicago at Chicago. 
Feb. 28—Ohio State at Notre Dame. 

March 6—^Wisconsin at Madison. 
March 7—Marquette at Milwaukee 
N.C.A.A. GOLF 
Notre Dame burst upon the inter­collegiate golf scene in full glory back in 1930 when Larry MoUer won the medal and went to the finals before a combination of lightning and George T. Dunlop, HI, of Princeton, combined to beat him. The team took fourth place. 
Now, in 1942, Notre Dame is to be host to the N.C.A.A. tournament, pro­ceeds from which will go to the Naval Relief fund, specifically for the relief of families of those lost or injured in the Pacific theater of war. The tourney, which attracts upward of 150 collegiate golfers each year, will be the largest officially sponsored amateur competition of the year, since the U.S.G.A. has de­clined to hold its national amateur, pub­lic links, or women's national champion­ship. Following immediately upon the heels of the Hale American tournament in Chicago, which is a substitute na­tional open (the U.S.G.A. having also discontinued the Open this year), it is likely to attract some of the nation's out­standing golf writers as well as an ex­cellent field. 
The tournament will be played over the South Bend Country Club Chain o' Lakes course, which the Western Open and Western Amateur fields in recent years pronounced one of the finest cham­pionship layouts in the nation. Charles (Chick) Evans, Jr., is chairman, and Ted Pajrseur, Northwestern coach, is secretary-treasurer of the N.C.A.A. golf committee. A preliminary meeting be­tween these men, our own Father George 
L. Holderith, C.S.C, and officials of the South Bend Country club was held re­cently to get the early organization work started. The tournament will be played June 22 to 27 inclusive, with the driving contest and the East-West match on 
Sunday, June 21. 
• • • — 
48 ALUMNI WITH G. E 

Forty-eight Notre Dame alumni are working for the General Electric Com­pany, according to Joseph R. Farrell, '15, Camp Hill, Pa., who is himself associ­ated with the company's Philadelphia office. Nearly every class graduated aft­er 1919 is represented. 
The list, with the office connection of each man, is as follows: 
J. M. McNulty, '19, Detroit; J. D. Fitzgerald, '22, Chicago; J. J. Huether, '22, Schenectady; R. E. Cordray, '23, Philadelphia; W. F. Rauber, '23, Phila­delphia; M. A. Brule, '25, New York City; L. J. Dorschel, '25, Milwaukee; 
C. T. Erombeck, Jr., '26, Kansas City; 
J. H. Newman, '26, Boston; P. E. Doell, '27, Bridgeport; J. S. Hicok, '27, St Paul; J. E. Sullivan, '27, Chicago; F. L. Duquette, '28, New York City; J. J. Horan, '28, Fort Wayne; F. M. Me-trailer, '29, Fort Wayne; E. R. Brongfa­el, '29, Bridgeport; E. E. Moyer, '29, Schenectady; S. A. Durbin, '29, Bridge­port; W. V. Gildea, '29, Fort Wayne; 
C. C. Brumleve, '29, Cleveland; D. L. Norton, '30, Erie; F. J. Rooney, '30, Bridgeport (in army); B. S. Walsh, '31, Schenectady; F. J. O'Conner, '32, Bloom­field. 
M. J. Leding, '33, Schenectady; A. J. Hiegel, '34, Fort Wayne; J. B. Land, '34, Philadelphia; E. W. Kenefake, '34, Schenectady; L. H. Hruby, '35, Los Angeles; L. L. Weiss, '37, Schenectady; 
R. M. Schleck, '39, Schenectady; D. B. Kelly, '39, New York City; D. T. Meskill, Jr., '39, Bridgeport; T. B. Schmid, '40, Bridgeport (in army); H. J. Connelly, '40, Bridgeport; P. W. Hackman, '40, Detroit; J. E. Wilson, '40, Schenectady; Harry Stevenson, '40, Schenectady; G. 
W. Duckworth, '41, Bridgeport; J. E. Ryan, '41, Schenectady; H. J. Schlafly, '41, Schenectady; G. W. Brown, '41, Schenectady; J. F. Nace, '41, Schenec­tady; T. C. Vincent, '41, Schenectady; 
R. L. Watters, 41, Schenectady; L. A. Schmidt, *41, Bridgeport; T. R. Reis, '41, Bridgeport. 
"SCHOLASTICS" TO MILITARY MEN 
Through the efforts of the Notre Dame Student Commission for Decent Litera­ture, Notre Dame representatives in the Army, Navy and Marine forces of the United States, and their chaplains, are receiving the Notre Dame "Scholastic" weekly campus news-magazine. The Stu­dent Commission, under the general chairmanship of Louis Kurtz, of Des Moines, la., undertook this venture at the beginning of the present sehoolyear. 
The immediate details of mailing the "Scholastic^' each week are directed by John A. Lynch, of Detroit, Michigan. The other men aiding in this work are: Jack Terry, Syracuse, N. Y.; Jack Behr, Oneida, N. Y.; Leo Selafani, Brooklyn, 
N. Y.; Leo Rumely, WUUm, Conn.; Jack Cashman, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada; Ed Conger, Poiighkeepsie, • N. Y.; Jack Regan, Scranton, Pa.; Frank Haley, Se­wickley. Pa.; Frank Brehl, Washington, Pa.; Harry Mercer, Chicago; Ralph Si­mon, Vineennes, Ind.; Floyd Vincent, Lake Charles, La.; Tom Bremer, Cleve­land Heights, O.; and Jim Newman, Clear Lake, la. 
Any Notre Dame man in the service who is not receiving the "SeholasHtf ia asked to notify the Alumni office. 
Krause Is New Coach 

Becomes Assistant on Football Staff. 

The appomtment of Edward (Moose) Krause, '34, assistant football coach at Holy Cross College, Worcester, Mass., to be assistant football coach at Nott« Dame efTective March 1, was announced by Father Hugh O'Donnell, president, at the Football Banquet on Jan. 19. 
The return of Krause to the Notre Dame campus recalls many of the out­standing feats of one of the greatest all-around athletes ever to play for the Fighting Irish. Ail-American in both football and basketball, Krause also won a track letter as a javelin thrower. He broke into the football lineup as a soph­omore in 1931i although the Irish were well loaded with talent. He also made the basketball team his first year and, dur­ing his three seasons, Notre Dame won 54 games and lost only 12. Krause set all-time Notre Dame scoring records for a single game, a single season, two sea­sons, and three seasons, all of them sub­sequently broken by Johnny. Moir. He twice led all Indiana coU^^te players in basketball scoring. He was the first Notre Dame man ever named aU-Amer­ican in the sport. He captained the 1933-34 team. 
Krause also holds the distinction of never having missed an athletic contest because of injury. His senior year of footbaU, 1933, he played 521 out of a possible 540 minutes, no other left tackle making a letter. He was co-captain of the All-Star footbaU squad that met the Chicago Bears in 1934. He was graduated at the age of 20, and before he left the campus he had signed as athletic direct­or and head coach at St. Mary's CoU^e of Winona, Minn. He went to Holy Cross Collie as assistant football coach when Joe Sheeketski, a teammate at Notre Dame, was named head mentor in 1938. 

OLD PiaURES 
TI M Ainmni Awociatjon would (tcady appraciate raceinns for Cantenary naa old pictnra* of No-tar* Damok aarly campiu scaaas, baJMinga that are now cona^ foot­ball ia tlia orcliard,' craws oa the lake, bicycles oa fall parade—ia fact, aay pictures that are reaia­isceat of byxoae days at tbe Uai­•ersitjr. 

able acclaim after a two-day stand on STUDENT NOTES By Wmiam L Sc.„l.„. 42 Dec. 15-16 Rev. Matthew Coyle, 
C.S.C., of the Department of English, directed the event which featured Bill Hickey, Chicago senior who filled the role of Falstaff remarkably well. .. . Other leading characters were: Jerry Heinlen, Garrett, Ind., Dave Curtin, Rochester, N. Y., Miss Mary Aheam, instructor of speech and dramatics at St. Mary's College, and Miss Elizabeth Jankovits of South Bend. 
EIGHT WIN DEBATE TEAM BERTHS 

Survivors in the round-robin tourna­ment to select members of the varsity debate team coached by Prof. William J. Coyne are: William Meier, Faulkton, S. Dak., and Mark Lies, Riverside, El., "A" squad negative and Joseph Tracy, New York City and James O'Dea, Lowell, Mass., "A" squad affirmative; John Utz, Rochester, Minn., and Robert LeMense, Iron Mountain, Mich., "B" squad affirm­ative, Robert Galvin, Evanston, 111., and William Lawless, Buffalo, N. Y., "B" 
squad negative Unless international complications cause a shift in plans, the topic is: "Resolved, That the Federal Government should regulate by law all labor unions in the United States.". . . Coach Coyne, last year a member of the University Speech Department, is cur­rently teaching statistics and mathe­matical courses in the Department of Economics. 
• 

SAVED, BY FATHER O'DONNELL, 
Just when the Navy-coming rumors hit all-time levels, the University presi­dent. Father O'Donnell saved the day with an historic speech in the west din­ing hall Perhaps the largest student 
audience ever to hear a Notre Dame president speak crowded into the Uni­versity dining halls at noon on Tuesday, Jan. 13.... The speech was relayed by special wire to the east hall, and students eating in the faculty quarters lined the aisles for the imprecedented occasion.... Father O'Donnell even denied the rumor that BUI Roach, the barber, planned in­stallation of double-deck barber chairs to handle expected crowds if the Navy 
should come ' Father O'Donnell also offered special Masses in each of. the Senior halls and spoke to the students, later in the week. 
PURCELL HEADS GLEE CLUB 
James Purcell, Jordan, Mont., heads Prof. Daniel Pedtke's Glee Club this year.... Other officers are: Ted Mac­Donald, No. 1 cheer leader who doubles in a musical way, from West Lafayette, bid., Anthony Donadio, Baltimore, Md., and Jerry Heinlen, Garrett, Ind. 
EXAMS DOMINATE 

Leading factual campus interests dur­ing January ^were examinations, though so many rumors were afloat that English majors are considering writing a thesis upon developments.... J. Q. O'Connell, Chicago author of the 1942 "Week" by way of the Sclwlastic's 75th year, chalked up a mark when he successfully (?) defended English majors abilities by pointing out that: Matthew Byrne of New York City is president of the Met club; Bookmen president is Charles Kearney, Dixon,- 111.; Dan Canale, Mem­phis, Tenn., is Bengal Bouts champion and 1942 tennis captain; and Charles Kirby, Great Neck, L. I., N. Y., edits 
Scrip. 
AID N. D. MEN IN SERVICE 
Proceeds from the Knights of Colum­bus carnival, scheduled for the middle of February, will be given to the Red Cross and to other agencies serving the armed forces. Chairman Edward Keidy, Lorain, Ohio, and James Fayette, Bur­lington, Vt., announced J. Raymond Hunt, '27, picture editor of the Chicago Times, described the history of pictures in the news and present day develop­ments for the Press Club during Decem­ber. ... Stewart F. Murphy—one of the 30 students by that name at Notre Dame —edits the newest campus publication, the Irish Pennant, oflBcial monthly issued by the Notre Dame Naval Reserve unit. 
With Prof C. C. Wilcox in charge, mechanical engineers made their annual plant trip to Chicago Stops included the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corp., Chica­go; the Beloit, Wis., college hospital, and Fairbanks-Morse diesel plant; and the International Harvester tractor plant, Chicago. 
•3' 
Old Address:  Street- 
i City-State­ N. B. If yon can add some news about youreelf and/or yoar N. D. friends, ao modi the better.  
P  uiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiliiiiiinii"i'ii'ii'i"'ii" imii  'TrTriiTiniiii  TTiiim  TTTiTiiiiirmimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii  

ENGINEERS AND OTHERS 
When semester examinations were pushed ahead one week, the campus En£:ineering Club under President Ed Buenger of Oak Park, 111., called off that social extravaganza, the En^eers ' Ball, at least until a later date.... No one called off potential employers, thon ^ when, according to the Placement Bu­reau, representatives of a list resembling a stock market report visited, or will soon visit, the campus.... Among con­cerns interviewing slide-rule wizards, chemists and some others are: United States Steel, Curtiss - Wright, General Electric, Goodyear, Westinghouse, Pratt-Whitney, duPont, Union Carbide and Carbon, Caterpillar Tractor, Texaco, Hy-
grade Sylvania And Naval Reserve commissions are available to all engi­neers who qualify.... Now if we were only engineers. 
TEA DANCE MAGIC 
There's more than one way of making friends, at least that must be the thought of Senior Class President James O'Neal, St. Louis, director of the St. Mary's-Notre Dame Sunday afternoon freshman tea dances.... Reports from both schools indicate the plan of staging, Cavanaugh, Zahm, Breen - Phillips and Brownson "days" at St. Mary's have been success­ful Early in January one of the 
features introduced was Jack WheUm, Howard Hall's magic man from Bloom­field, N. J. .. . He could shuffle tiie cards masterfully, but wasn't able to land a potential prom "queen" for every freshman, and vice versa.... Now the Walsh Hall seniors are clamoring for a senior day.... at St. Mary's "The Merry Wives of Windsor," popular Shakespearean play, gained much favor­
•liiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiimi immiiiiiiniiiimiiiimiiitlimMlwmnmBI 

YOUR NEW ADDRESS, PLEASE 
Blilitary service and defense industry employment arc malcinf more difficult Uian ever before tbe constant Alumni Office problem of keepins current addresses for some 12,000 persons. If you have changed your address recently, please fill out this blank and return it promptly to Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana, liianks. 
Name- Class- 
New Addras:  Street­ (Check whether home Q or bosiness Q)  
City- State _- 

—Blackstone Studios 

H. Qay Johnson 

On Nov. 8, 1941, H. Clay Johnson, '32, formerly a counsel attached to the Ee­construction Finance Corporation, was appointed special assistant to Emil Schram, president of the New York Stock Exchange. 
Clay spent six years at Notre Dame, receiving his A.B. magna ciim laude, in 1932, and his LL.B. in 1934. For three years he played varsity basketball, win­ning monograms his last two years, and for two years he won the Hering-Keach prize for the monogram student with the best academic average. Clay coached freshman basketball and assisted Coach Keogan with the varsity squad while working for his law degree at the Uni­versity. He was on the Student Council from the Law School and was president of the Presidents' Council. 
Accepting a K. of C. fellowship for graduate law at Catholic University, Clay, in 1935, received the degree of Master of Laws there, and served on the Catholic U. faculty as assistant pro­fessor of constitutional law and of bank­ruptcy, vmtil he went to New York. 
In June, 1935, Clay accepted a position with the Keconstruction Finance Corpor­ation, and for three years.was attached to the general counsel of the agency. 
With the start of defense activities, he became active in organizing the Kubber Reserve Company, an K.F.C. subsidiary designed to acquire a reserve stock of crude rubber for defense purposes, and as a result was made the assistant gen­eral counsel in charge of. that acuvity. 
During all of his time at K.F.C., he worked closely with Enul Schram, then the chairman of that organization. Mr. Schram went to the New York Stock Ex-
y > ALmuU 


»»»»»»»•»»»»»»»< 
change as its new president last June. Clay's new position with him as special assistant will entail work of unlimited scope, both legal and administrative in character. 
Edgar Kobak, a Notre Dame student of 1904-06 who was elected to the Alumni Association in 1936, was recently named executive vice-president and general manager of the Blue Network Company, newly-organized RCA subsidiary. 
Mr. Kobak takes to his new duties a well-grounded and varied knowledge of network operations, business administra­tion, sales management, and program­ming. A native Chicagoan, he was edu­cated in his home city, at Notre Dame, and at Georgia Tech. He started his engineering career with the Georgia 
Edgar Kobak 

Power Co., and then moved through the editorial, selling, and publishing branch­es of the McGraw-Hill Publishing Co., until he became vice-president of that organization. 
He resigned from this post to become vice-president in charge of sales for NBC; and in turn left this position to become an advertising agency vice-presi­dent with Lord and Thomas. Mr. Sdbak had returned to NBC as vice-president in charge of Blue Network sales before he was ejected to his new post. 
QMIICS Fahy 

Charles Fahy, ex. 14, new sdicitor general of the United States and now become the nation's No. 1 trial lawyer, has been called the "shy litUe man win always lets yon have his own way." ­
Charles Fahy was born 49 years ago in Rome, Ga^ His &ther, a merchant sent him to Notre Dame and later to Georgetown for law. At the age of 21 he was admitted to the bar, and in 1924 he entered private practice in Suta. Fe^ 
N. M., where he still has a family home and l^:al residence. 
In 1933 he entered government service, as an attorn^ for the Interior Depart­ment, also serving as ehaiiman for the Petroleum Administrative Board. In 1935 he became general coimsel>for the NLRB and for the next five years battled' in court for its very existence. In 1940 he went to the Justice D^artmoit as. assistant solicitor generaL 
As a World War. Naval aviator, he was first attached to a British n^ ^ bombing squadron in northern France and later to an American hooilBng squadron in the same area. One daifc ni^ t he cracked up in Dankerqne. He was wounded, but he carried'on to flie end of hostilities, and President ^raaon awarded him the Navy Cross for distin­guished and heroic sovice in line of duty. 
'Rendent Roosevelt sdected Mr. Fahy as a member of the special cbmmisaaB \diich spent two montiis in London last winter negotiating the naval bases-far^ 50 destroyers trade. 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
CAMP LEE, VA. Corp. Joseph W. Sdimidt, '36, Public Re-Imtions Office, Q.M.R.C.* Camp Lee. Va., temporary president. 
We were able to get 30 tickets for the Navy-Game and some 20 Notre Dame men -with some of their friends attended the ETame. Many of the boys have since been sent to other posts in the East. It proved a most pleasant week-end for everyone. 
Fmnk UcGahren has been doing a marvelous job for the N. C. C. S. of the U. S. O. here in Petersburg. In November, at the dedication of the local N.C.C.S. Service Men's club, we ar­ranged for six Notre Dame men to present the colors. 
You can be assured tfiat we are doing our best to take care of all Notre Dame men who come here and wish help in any way. 
Joseph Schmidt 

CENTRAL NEW YORK WiUiam J. Byrne, '37, 522 Stolp Ave., Syra­cume, Pres.; Henry T. Hickey. '39, 308 Cay­nsra St., Syracnse, Sec 
Jacob Edcc], '16, long an active member of the club, and at times the only active member, called a reorganization meeting, which was held at his home. 404 Orchard Boad, Solvay, on June 19, 1941. Forty members answered the call, which was about 20 more than attended any of the meetings in recent years. Robert McAoliffe, as­sistant prefect of discipline, who was visiting his home town, Syracuse, presided imtil the gavel was handed over to the newly elected president, WiUiam J. Byrne, '37. Rev. Francis J. Harrison. '34, who is now stationed at the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception in Syracuse, was named chaplain, and Henry T. Hickey, '39, was named secretary. 
Ed BroMoe, '38. formerly of Youngstown, O., is now a physical ed prof, at Syracuse Central High school. Robert Rnmpf. '39, is in St I<ouis. making sure the airplane motors are up to snuff. Jolu Beer, '38, and Frank WaUcer, *39. are doing th^r bit for Uncle Sam. James Barrett, '39, is a member of the U. S. Air Corps. 
Jacob Edcel, '16, attended the Army-Notre Dame game in New York with Vincent Brown. Mr. Eckel has seen every game that Army and Notre Dame have played since 1916. 
Henry T. Hickey 

CENTRAL NEW JERSEY Ladd Lttkats, 150 Kearny Ave., Perth Am-boy, N. J., Pres.; Sam Gio, Sec. 
We are indebted to Howard Waldron, ""SJ, of the Trenton, N. J., "News" for information on the progress of Peter J. Morgan, Jr., '29, who will be recalled as a fine miler and half-miler; Morgan's Trenton High School team recently won the 1941 national interscholastic cross-country dtampionship, dethroning Nott Terrace High of Schenectady, N. Y. 
.Pete's team won the New Jersey intersdiolastic track and field title in 1940, the first time in 30 years tliat a south Jersey team took the crown. Among his products have been Joe Olbrys. Notre Dame captain in 1941, and Hare Jenkins of ­
' Indiana. 
NerM Wiettf, '34, is athletic director and coach 
The 1940 - 1941 Alumni Board 
Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., 11, D.D., New York City . Honorary President Harry F. Kelly, 17, Detroit and Laaaag, Mich. JPresiderU Frederick T. K^thaffey, 17, Indian^olia, Ind.. Ptrst Vice-Preaident Alfonso A. Scott, '22, Los Angeles, Calif. Seeorld Vie»-President James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dam^ Ind. —JSeoretary-Treamirer William E. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Ind. Aa^stant Secretary Edward F. OToole, '25, Chicago, DL Director to X9iS John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, Mich. Director to 19AS William J. Mooney, Jr., '15, Indianapolis, Ind..-Director to 19U Rev. Michael L. Moriarty, '10, Mentor, Ohio _ Director to 19^5 
Ray J. Eichenlanb, '15, Columbus, Ohio 
of busketball and baseball at Trenton Catholic 
HiKh, and Rex EUis. '39, holds the same position 
at Kider College in Trenton. 
CINCINNATI Joseph P. Kinnearr. '28, 1717 FeniwMd Ave.. Pres.: Frank L. Broeman, ex. '35, 3M5 MU ­dleton Ave., Sec 
In lieu of a guest speaker at the December dinner meeting at the Kemper Lane Hotel, Glcm and Emmett Crowe, and Hngfa Banu, the Notre Dame men on Xavier University's coaching staff, spoke about their work at Xavier. In view of the fact that they turned out the best team in Xav­ier's history they were much congratulated for'­their successful season. Other members present were Joe Kinneary, Harry Cramky, Frank Sweeney,' Bob Leonard. Walt Nienaker. Dwicht and Frank Broeman, Andy Barton, Bak Scallaa. Howard Rohan, Jr., John CottinthlM, Ja A Bndberger. Jim Hitdwll. AI CaitdBsi, Nick Janson, Larry Janszen, and Red Loney. 
The Christmas dance at the Uaketewah Country Club Jan. 3 proved to be a social and finanpial success despite extremely inclement weather. The credit is due largely to the committee of B.k Leonard, chairman. Bob Hnshei. Walt Nieaaksr. and Jade Bradbercer. Chief among the celdbrants was Al CasteOini. whose fourth son was bom on Jan. 2. ^ 
Frank I. Bneaua 

DENVER 
Bart W. O'Hatm. '32. 1325 Hndaim St , Pm. ; 
Evene S. BBA. '34. 1550 Ondda St, Sec 

Denver's first nnnnal Knate Rodae trophy, sponsored by the local NDers and emblematic of Colorado's state football high school champion­ship, was won by St. Mary's High of Walsenburg. President Bart O'Hara and Trophy Chairman Al Frantz presented the trcvhy to league ofiEicials, in impressive ceremonies on the 50-yard line stripe during the Iialf time of the championship game. liocal and state sports writers gave considerable space to stories about the Denver N. D. club's Bockne Trophy. "Hie tnmby stands 17 inches high encircled by a gold band and surmoonted by A football player. It becomes the permanent pos­session of the winning team. 
Varsity Flyer co-Qiairmen Ed HansfleU and Al Doads. backed by Jahn Hwapkriea, Jade Skee­han. Bin Didc and Laaie Hoagh. tnmed in s roost satisfactory report on this year's Vatrity Flyer trips. Iliis season's ninth and tenth running of these special trains brings our passenger list 
-Ex-Offieio Director to 19iM 

tn over 2,000 and total mileage covered to 25,000. niese trips enable the Denver NDers to maintain thar yearly scholarship awards for Colorado boys entering Notre Dame. 
Ed Owens is doing special work for the local Catholic Cliarities office. John Hnmphreys and Jim Hanlon still have a comer on the insurance business around here. Charlie Haskell passed around cigars and popped a couple of buttons oS his vest when he announced a new baby girl at his home. After the Southern Cal game, Ed MaasteU headed down IMxieway for a hello to the home folks in Leaksville, N. C. Felix Pog­liano, Tna Barry, Tom Carrisan and lots more of the regular NDers are pitching with Unde Sam these days. Chuck Cassidy has his wings with the Air Corps they tell us. Herb Falrall did his bit with the RCAF and then, with the turn of events last Dec. 8, came back to line up with the USAers. 
Several out-of-town Notre Damers are stationed at the local air and army sdiooL Haarie Leaky, from Tiffin, O., is in the quiz department of Lowry Field. Jim Canity (Hiya, Art) of the Canton, O.. Cenleys, was married in Denver dur­ing the holidays. Bak Howard, that gent'mun from Richmond was advanced to the Air Corps cadet sdiool and transferred from Denver to California. 
Didc Nortis is at the local Remington-Arms munition plant. Met Lnd, Gasper from Pittsburgh down at the USO dub last week; he's out at Ft. Ix>gan. Last we heard of Tom Ryan, the Clevdander, was that he was heading for Panama. 
Chedied over Sorin-days with Frank Widcer who brought his faxaily out to Denver for Christ­mas. fVank headquarters in the Chicago office cf the Texaco Company. 
Gene Bliih DETROIT 
Malcolm F. Knaas. '26, 507 CartU Bldg.. 
Pre,.; llwodare F. Feldman. '34, Wayne 
CmatT Bldg., See. 

The annual meeting for the election of officers for the coming year was held the evening of Nov. 24 at the Whittier Hotel. Coach Frank Leaky proved to be the greatest magnet this club ever bad when more than 160 members and guests turned out. 
Caack Leaky gave a short although very impres­sive talk. He also showed the pictures of the Notre Dame-Navy game. Among others present were T«mmy Skechan. former golf star at Notre Dame and now one of the outstanding amateurs of the Detroit district; Dr. Hanrey Brawn, cap­tain of. the 1923 squad; Hmnk Andenon; Fred Caridco; Art Cranin; Bete Cawtfaom, former Texas Tech coach; Tom Leahr> brother of Frank and now a resident of Detroit; Charley Gehrinser, Detroit Tiger second baseman; and lieutenant-governor of the state* Frank Murphy. 
Previous to the showing of the pictures, the annual election was held with the following men elected for the coming year; Halcolra F. Knans, president; John F. Brccn, vice-president; Theo­dore F. Feldnuin, secretary; and Harcellni Ver­U»t , treasurer. The financial report, read by Dr. Keil Whelan, outgoing treasurer, showed that the club is well in the black due to the untiring efforts of the officers of the past year, with the most able assistance of Howard F. Beechinor. 
Hie four trustees elected for the coming three .year term were: Howard F. Beechinor, Gil Schae­
fer. Art Cnnin, and George Hanlon. David Van 
Wallace was named a permanent honorary trustee. 
Ted Feldman 

HARRISBURG 
John J. HcKeill. '3S, 2220 Cbutnot St., 
FRS. ; Samael R. Beed. 'SC, MIS N. Second 
On Dec 12 the Barrisburg Club had its repre­

sentatives, Joe FarreU and John McNeill, at the 
school and college night sponsored by the John 
Harris High sidiool in Harrisburg. Notre Dame 
has three excellent prospects for the 1942' term 
from this school On Dec. 22, the Club had 
its Christinas meeting for students at school, and 
among those that attended were Ed Eckenxode, 
Jr., Bin O'Connor, Frands Moore, from Pottsville, 
and several guests of Tom Carfagno'a: Messrs. 
Hulkem and Desmond, Army inspectors at Tom's 
plant.... The members in attendance were Joe 
Farren, Tom Carfacno, Walter Lot^ Ed Smith, 
John McNeill, Ed Eckenrode, Sr., the father of 
one of the boys not at school. Rod Gillis, Bob 
Klaiber, Tom Canningham, Tom Cranin, and Bob 
Johnston.... Joe FarreU outlined the new pro­
gram instituted by the Association and the boys 
received it well . We hope to do our best here 
in Harrisburg but with the following men recalled, 
or enlisting, in the armed forces it looks like the 
Harrisburg club will suffer a wholesale draft.... 
Recalled to active service are Tom Cniminghara. 
'30, who is now at Indiantown Gap Tom 
Cronin, '39, is with the 1301st Service TTnit at 
the New Cumberland, Pa. Reception Center.... 
Charles O'Connor, *36. is in the Army somewhere 
Bob Schlayer, '40 is at Maxwell Field, Ala. 

for training in the Army Air Corps Lieut. 
Jack Lacey, '38, is still with the Army Air Corps 
at the supply depot, Middletown, Pa... . Frank 
Bathaah, '37, has been recalled and at the moment 
is still in the Army at the Reception Center in 
New Cumberland.... Two newcomers in Harris­
burg are Norman liillir, '30, who is with the 
Harrisburg Machinery Corp., and Eagene A. Ha­
laoey, ex. '14, who has a civilian position with 
the Army Air Corps at Middletown. 
' John J. McNeill 

GREATER LOUISVILLE (Kratncky) L«ria J. Hallwiharii. Jr.. ex. >S7. Glencoe DMUkiT. Fn«-: Chaik* G. Horraw. >38, 2418 Vaktta Baad, See. 
Tbe club's stag trip to the Southern Cal game was a great success, with 37 in the crowd. The gang left Louisville on Friday evening, stopped over in Indianapolis for the evening and proceeded the next day to South Bend for .the game. They returned to Louisville the same evening. 
Hie annual Scholarship Dance was held Dec 27. in the Gold Room of the Kentucky Hotel. Over 200 couples were on hand, making the dance a success from the financial as well as the social standpcunt. Ibe club gave away a defense bond at the dance as its initial contribution to naticmaX defense. 
* 

The club's subsidiary, the St. Mary Magdalen conference of the St. Vincent de Paul Society, closed a most successful year. Tlus Conference is the only one of its kind sponsored by an alumni group, and was taken over in 1940 because the St. Mary Magdalen Parish was unable to support its own conference. The conference, under N. D. alumni, is functioning smoothly, doing a great deal of good in a very poor section of Ijooisville. 
Charles G. Bbrraw. 

MOHAWK VALLEY (N. Y.) 
Frank Donalty, '33. 23 Beverly Place, Uiica, 
Pres.; Edward J. Sweeney, '3». 1415 MiUer 
St . Utica, Sec. 
•Dec. 10, 1941 
The club elected the following officers on Dec 9: 

Frank Donalty, president: George HcKee. vice-president; Edward Sweeney, secretary; Fran Toomey, treasurer. 
We went on record as giving our full support to the Legion of Decency and to combating the drive dgainst indecent literature. 
Father John Bnike o{ Our Lady of Lourdea parish outlined several things wbidi this organ­ization could do. Inasmuch as Father Burke Is more than interested in our group he was made spiritual advisor of this club. 
We had a guest for the evening, George Urn-merman, '34, of Springfield, III. He is connected with the F.DJ.C. His address is 110 Genesee St , Utica. 
The following members were present, Geaige Richter, Vin Fletdier. Fran Toomey, Frank Daa­alty. Charles Hitzelbeiger. Bill Halull, Frank Hackett, Ed McLaughlin. Hugh Clancy, and the writer from Utica. Frank Connors from Ilion. and George McKee from Rome. 
Jan. 14. 1942 

We sponsored a Christmas toy party for the infants of S t Joseph's Infant Home in Utica. The members collected donations of one dollar or less to purchase toys for the young children at the home. We did not begin until the middle of December but collected some $126. 
Individual toys for 37 orphans were purchased, and four tricycles, four scooters, blocks, games and other toys for the general use of those at the Home. Also the committee purchased two l^ylor tots, two child's size rocking chairs, two creeper babes and a rocking horse. Having some money left, the boys purchased two turkeys for the nuns at the home. 
Fran Toomey was the chairman assisted by the fathers in the club, Vin Fletcher, Hagh Glaacy. Ed McLaughlin and Fran Hackett The affair was a grand success and it was decided to make it an annual affair of the club. 
Ed Sweeney MINNESOTA Gerald McKay, "it. UI2 11th Ave^ S,. Ma­neapoUi. Pres.: Robert BL Tegcder. ex. It . 7 S. 6tk St. IDnneapoDs. Sec 
At our genera] meeting on Nov. 27 final plans were completed for the annual Christmas Ball held in Minneapolis on Dec 27. Arnold Kkin, '32. was host to the boys and personally served the refreshments. Francis Flannery. '31, Toss Mah—, '28, and Herman Piper, '11, were present Frank Mayer, of S t Paul, John R. Petrifli, and Taaa Lee of Minneapolis, all employed with the North-em States Power Co., left their work long enoogfa to be on hand for the meeting. 
Capt Charles Lyndi, '28, of the Construction Quartermasters Corps at the new munitions plant-being erected near Wniieapolis. gave • very inter-, eating and timdy short talk ia eomwetian with this defoise plant The DeLar brothers, FaMil and Paal were oo hand for the wtmtHwtg^ akaix with Michael Ketcaa. B«l limaadt. Haoiee J. Giinii. Joha Hicak, Jack Deylc. Gcmrse WgRaas. Gearte Keeagh. Gewge McDerBstt, Charia BaK­
•laa and Bi 
There were 322 eooples ia attendance to make the annual Christmas Ball one of the most soc­oessfnl events ever conducted by the club. Chair­man Jaeeph Sckraeder and his coaunittae £ d a splendid job. 
A complete roster of every Notre Dame man in Minnesota, alumni and former students haa been sent to all our members. 
Robert M. Tcgedrr 

NEW YORK CITY 
Wama S. Feed. "3*. Bald Wsadatacfe, 127 
W. Mrd St, New Tsik. N. T„ Pres.; II»­
•thy
 J. TiiMij, •3*, Hotel WufcUik. Ill 

W.
 41rd St, New To*. N. T, See. 



The annual meeting of the dub for the election of the nominating board was held at Hotd Wood­stock on Jan. IS. Befwe the February meeting, the following seven members will ,i#^gw*t the ten new members for the 1942 Board of Gov­ernors: Jeeepk 6. Friel. '29; Jerdaa Hargiwfe. '35; Gcerge Rehrs, '33; J. Grecoiy Riea. '39: Robert A. Haiailtaa. '29: Edward Bednua. '16: AI Periiae. '4L 
Plans arc under way to hold a reception at Hotd Woodstock fdlowing the annoal Notre Dame-N. T. V. basketball game on Feb. 14. 
Jaha Mana, '36. hard working member of the club and eSident secretary of his dass. recently reedved an ensign's conunissioa in the U. S. Navy. The "Admiral" is temporarily stationed in New York (Sty. 
All Notre Dame men in the aerviee of our country, who may be in New York City on duty or on furlough, are cordially invited by the Notre Dame Chib of New York to take advantage of the dub faeili­tiea at the Hotel Woodstock, 127 W. 4Sid S t Jim Carroll, '31. manager of the hotd. will assist in waking necessary contacts and the secretary of the dub (until he is called to duty, at least) vrill hdp viaSng Notre Dame fighting men to locate friends in tlie dty. 

Jiai Carroll, presented the Notre Dame Club C Y. O. championship football trophy to Holy Name (Manhattan) parish eleven on Jan. 6. Jack Lavdle. '28, C.Y.O. atUetie £reetor, acted as the 
M. C. at the vietorr banijaet 
Ti a TasBcy 

PEORIA 
Mrwrnmin U Slaaa. -ST. 213 M. PadubM. 
Pits.: B. J. Raaagaa. t7. 217 M. CliaaaaC 
See. 

The annual Christmas Dance waa held Dec 2T at the Jeffers(m HoteL The party was rather small this year but all who attended had a roodng good time. Earl Brawa. Harvard basketball eoadi. who had hia team in town to play the local Bradley TeA cagers. was present 
Heretofore we have neglected to report that Paal Wiaaaaer has been stationed at Camp Davis, in North CaraUna, since last ^ring. Also. Jaha Bidabatheai has completed his training at Cha-nnte-FIdd and is now in the Air Cotps at IM* Vegas. Nev. 
Laa Crystal, '3(. has announced his engagement to Miss Wanda Jennings of this dty. 
I regret to report that Ed SncU's mother passed away Dec 31 in Erie, Pa. Rody Kelly's father -was killed Jan. 3 ivhen he was struck by one of the Rock Island Rocket trains at a crossiner near his home in ChilHcothe, HI. 
E. J. Flanagan 
PHILADELPHIA AdtUa J. Wackennui, '35, 5356 Chew St, Piw.} CliffOTA B. ProddO, '32, 6070 Chester Arc., 8M; 
Looks as though -we're gonna have trouble get­
•ting enough men together at night to have a meeting pretly soon between marriages, the -war €t al (Wonder why I happened to mention those two items simultaneously?) Latest to desert the bachelor ranks -was our own Prexy Joe Wacker-man. There must be something -wrong with Frank McHanns and me. Anyway, we wish the boss the best-o-luck. 
Note that localad Marty Brill -vvas. consulted in the list of coaching bigwigs -who were asked their opinions anent a proposed change in the rules. 
Hear that Tom Carroll has the most swankily furnished office of any insurance agency upstate. 
We had the good fortune to have both Prof. Dan O'Grmdy and Father Leo R. Ward here as speakers for the recent meeting of the Catholic Philosophical Association. 
Dan Yonnff has been invited to show his film on dry dock construction at the Franklin Institute. From advance notices of ticket applications, I'm afraid he will have to move the showing to Convention ^il t 
Jack Reilly has been doing excellent work as field representative for an oil concern (Why should I mention the name for no fee?) Must have Dooley or Bailey send him our advertising rates. 
Speaking of letters reminds us that we still owe one to Perc Connolly. Can he ever forgive us? 
Was Bill Castellini trying to get a "copy of the charge'* the night we spotted him with that ma^strate ? 
And the way things are going I think PIl see you at reveille. Cliff Prodehl 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ROCHESTER Frank X. Connelly, ex. '34, 135 Spiiait SU Pres.; Robert C. Odenbadi, Ml, 323 Akr­decn St., Sec 
At a meeting on Oct. 20, Frmnk ConneDy was reelected president. Ken Powers -was elected vice-president, Dick Sullivan, treasurer and Bob Oifen­bach, secretary. 
The annual Conununion Breakfast, held Dec 7 at the Sagamore Hotel, was a grand success. 
The alumni club together with the campus club played host to Angelo Bertelli and Harry Wrisbt at a banquet on Dec 22 in the Powers Hotel. Navy and Southern California game pictures were shown following the banquet. 
Bob Odenbadi 
The club had for the past four years reserved the first Sunday in Advent for its annual Holy Communion and breakfast. This year we moved the day up to the second Sunday, Dec 7, be­cause the First Friday of December was the 5th, and the Feast of the Immaculate Conception -was on the day following our Communion. With just a littie extra effort our members could go to Mass and Communion four days in a row. Prob­ably since our days at Notre Dame, we have not been blessed with such an opportunity to receive daily Communion. 
Frank X. Connelly 
SPRINGFIELD, ILL. Joseph Pedmccl, '39, 1331 Noble Ave, Pres.; William M. White, *21, 621 S. 7th St., Sec 
On Oct. 12, we had dinner at the Elks Club, after which we saw a movie at the Cathedral High School, "Ifighlights of 1940 Notre Dame Football Season." 
Our president, Joe Hennebry, has taken a ]>osi­tion with the duPont Co., at Wilmington, HI. Joe Pcdmcd is our new president; he is manager of the Esquire Theatre and attends Lincoln Law College. 
Jerr}- Holland, '30, from Chicago, has been with us for the past year. He came down to take the job of chief architect for the F.H.A., in the southern Illinois area. 
Bob &tox, who was with this club for a num­ber of years has gone into the architecturml busi­ness for himself in Benton Harbor, Hich. 

BiAop JAn F. 0*Hara, CS.C, D.D., recently  gave die Mrraon st a big Field Haw at CuKp 
Croft, S. C Several Notre Dame men at the camp met him in a body after Mau, and this pictne was taken. In the front row: Hiss Anne Hooley, director of the Woman's Divirion of N.C.CS.; Msst Bcr. Aaleta Giavanni Cicomsni, apostolic delegate; General Patdi, commander of Camp Croft; Mast Ber-Eaunet M. Walah, BUhop of Charleston, S. C : and Bishop O'Hara. The bads row is comp«ae4 cntlrdr af Natre Dame men. Left to right: Jim Scigliano, ex. '42, Joe HcKeon, '40; Ned Joyce, '37; Bcr. T. J. '15; Frank Donlon, '37; Charles Rt^genstein, '37; Georce Hajnes, ex. '42, and Jim SpeDmaa, '4U 
Joe McGrath, '36, Secretary of State office. Index Department, announces the birth of a son, John Dennis McGrath, bom July 9, 1941. This is bis second son, Thomas Edward was bom April 30. 1940. 
Charles J. Mannix. *31, of Washington, D. C, former baseball pitcher, is a new member in our club. He is with the Surplus Marketing Adminis­tration as purchasing agent for the State of Illinois; he is here buying apples for Britain. 
Richard T, Neeson, '30, is organist^irector. Cathedral of Immaculate Conception and on the staff of Springfield College of Music Dick has two children, Richard T., 4%, and John Francis, 1. 
Bill Bembrock, '35, has been with us for the past five years. Bill is architect for the Division of Parks. Bill announces the birth of a daughter on June 8, Cecelia Ann; June 10 was the second wedding anniversary, and June 11 he received his state architectural license. 
Mr. and Mrs. Oliver F. Field, '31, announce the birth of a son on Nov. 11, (eleventh month, elev­enth day, and eleventh hour), in Springfield. III. Oliver has taken a position with the Inter-Insur­ance Exchange Division of the Chicago Motor Club, Chicago. 
Miss Nancy Ann I*aubacher and Floyd F. Mil­ler, '37, were married Oct. 29 in Oxnard. Calif. William White 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
S. Flayd Searer, *28, First Bank & Trast Ca^, Saath Bend, Pres.; darenca Hardlnr, '25, Sonth Bead Tribane, Soath Bend, Sec 
All activities have centered about the annual Civic testimonial football banquet sponsored by the club on Jan. 19 at Notre Dame. A write-up on the banquet will be found in another section of this issue. 
ST. LOUIS Dr. L. Vincent Gorrilla, '21, 3115 S. Grand Blvd.. Pres.; Dr. Bernard P. Crowley, '28, 1139 BeOevne Ave, Sec 
For those of you who do not know it, the head­line of the month is the Hellrang offspring. Robert Joseph became a visual reality on Dec 9. So to Bob and Marie, all sort of congratulations I 
The Christmas Dance went off, with everyone happy, on Dec 29 at the University Club. The breakfast was superior. The older boys did not turn out as well as they might have, but it was a pleasure to see them represented by officers, who held forth in grand style. Jade Griffin who chair­maned the affiair did a swell job and is to be congratulated. We even had an extra hour of dancing. 
It was a pleasant surprise to see Fred McNeil at the Christmas Dance. We wondered where the olive drab had disappeared to, and Fred told ns that be was discharged after six months and is at present considered a -vital defense man. He has an important post at the Emerson Electric Plant, here in St. Lome. 
Our scholarship drive went over the top in time for the grand drawing of those all-expense trips to the N. D.-Southem Cal game. The trip was won by a local chap who nearly passed out when he was notified. The $1,000 raised has been added to the accumulating fund which- now is in the neigfaboriiood of $2,500. We are about ready to heean negotiations with the University on the choice of a student who -will receive his full expenses for the four years at N. D. 
Hodi. 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) 
Harold B. Desnoyers, >34, 18 Grant St , 
Binckamton, Pres.; Ted J. Griffin, ex. '29, 
SduDer St.. Sec 
Hie TUpIe Cities Club had a very snccessfal football party at the local K. of C. clubhouse on Oct. 25. Twenty-five members attended and the feature of the eveninsr was the showinar of the "HiEfalights of 1940." James McCake made the final report on the scholarship fund drive, which was a grand success. 

Timothy J. Griffin has been appointed city 

treasurer and Rcris C. HcNamara is the new 
deputy city engineer in Binghamton. In the No­
vember elections Dr. Frank Paul Kane was again 
elected county coroner. He defeated Dr. John 
O'Brien. Daniel McAvoy is the district attorney 
and William Allan Pace is a member of the local 
Civil Service Cbmmission. Besides these Kotre 
Dame men taidng part in local government, 
William Hogan, James Hogan. Harold Desnoyer*. 
Joseph Kane and Thomas Batlu-are teaching in 
the local school system. John Donnelly is the 
county N.Y.A. supervisor. Our alumni club is 
very proud to have so many members of its club 
taking part in the civic afTairs of the community. 
John Wacks and Robert Murphy have been ap­
pointed to the F.B.I. Dr. John T. Kane, Dr. 
Walter Demer and Dr. Joseph Cnsic are serving 
in the armed forces. 
The alumni club, in cooperation with the un­dergraduate club, held their annual Christmas dance and it topped all others in attendance and entertainment. The proceeds of the dance were given to the scholarship fund. Ihis fund is used to help local students at Notre Dame. Bev. Joseph 
B. Toomey, director of Catholic Charities in Bing­hamton, is chairman of the alumni scholarship committee. 
Members of the alumni club attended a Kequiem 
Mass Dec. 12 for the late Father Joseph Wilmes. 
Father Wilmes was pastor of St. John the Evan­
gelist Church in Binghamton since 1925 and was 
the oldest alumnus in this part of the state, a 
member of the class of *86. . 
Harold B. Desnoyeis 

TUCSON, ARIZONA Ted A. Witz, ex. '29, Box 628, Pres.; Paul Dafand. '25, 1911 E. 2nd St, Sec 
Christopher A. Reilly was elected president of the Tucson Junior Chamber of Commerce at a meeting held on Dec. 8. Chris is one of our most active members and a real booster. With four sisters as students at St. Mary's, he is better known among visiting alumni than are most of us. Chris is kept busy as an associate with his father and brother in the undertaking business. 
Rocco Sdiiralli, '35, of Gary, Ind., is another NDer a long way from home and anxious to receive mail from his friends. He came down here because of asthma and in six weeks has not had a bad attack. Rocco is well remembered for his play as a guard on the varsity. Address him in care of St. Mary's Hospital, Tucson. 
We recently received another cheery and brac­ing letter from Paul D. Hoeffler, '25. Paul is an adept student of applied psychology and his let­ters the past several years have been both helpful and encouraging. He is now general agent for the Lincoln National Life Insurance Company, in ProWdence, B. I., with his office in the Industrial Trust Building. 
Paul J. Dufand 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Beniard E. Lodihoach. '29, SSIO Colorado 
Are,, N.W., Pi««.: Wm. C. Karl, '31, 2115 
"F" St.. N.W., SM. 

Owing to the press of defense work here in the Capitol, there was little time to plan for a meeting in January. It is hoped however, to hold a regular meeting during the first week in Febru­ary at the Ambassador Hotel. 
Newcomers in town wishing to have their names placed on the mailing list should forward 
directly to the Bates Duplicating Company, 729 
I5th Street, N. W., stating affiliation with the 
club. 
K n Kail 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA Hack C. Bayle. '24. Law sad HUM * Hhw Pittifcaiih. Prw.; Jakn F. PwrlU. Jr. t*. Rma IM. CmuOmmat. PWAwA SWk 
Tom Cronin's new address is New Cumberland. Pa., where he's in the induction department.... Charley Dillon writes that he's in the radio di­vision at Fort Bragg, N. O. .. . Dan Bndcikk'a in the U. S. Naval Reserve, presently training in Chicago, where he's living at 521 Abbot HalU 430 
E. Huron Street.... He aims to become an ensign ... . Jim HcNuIty sends along a card to tdl ns he's been asagned to a permanent post, his ad­dress being 68th Material Squadron, Lawson Held, Fort Benning. Ga. . . . Previously he was at New Cumberland, Fa., where he ran into Charley-Dillon and Tom Cronin.... Jack Hanteveide. Hugo lacovetti, and Jack Pattenon are now in the Army, final assignment not Icnown at present time. . . . 
Bill Sixsmith made the Navy and Scmthem Cal games.... Nordy Hoffmann, the Army. Navy and Southern Cal games.... Stanley Adaawnlfl. the Southern Cal game.... Paul BfaBen, the Army, Navy, Carnegie Tech, and Southern Cal games. Paul already has passed his physical exam for the Naval Air Corps. 
Our annual supper dance was held Jan. 1, in the Chatterbox of the William Penn Hotel, with better than 150 in attendance. 
On the comnUttee for the dance were Ja»ea Devlin, John Bcardon, Hugh Boyle. Jack Sbecdy. George Kingsley, Bob Hartman. Eugene Coyae, Rudy Cmkovic, Carl Link. Lanr OTosle. Jack Monttverde, Bob Kvatsak. Pari Hrilcn, Jihii Pat­terson, John Ference. Geoige Martinet, Bill Saehr. John Hickey, John Ryan, Bob Bard. Bab HaedKr, and Bob GaOagher. A lot of help came from J*A Ward and Bob Hagan. both students at N. D. There was a goodly representation of students. 
Also present was Joe Somen, home on leave from Fort Knox. Ky., where he was made a corporal recently and where he's in the officers' training school. 
Congratulations to the four who 1)ecame fath­ers recently—Bob Kvatsak. Fritx Wilian. John Roney. Jr. and Eugene Coyne. Kvatsak passed out cigars at the luncheon a few days later.... Actively interested in boy scout work are Gearge Scfaill, John Ryan, John Ference. and Walt Klis­toff. . . . John J. Ward's son, John, Jr., is a freshman at N. D. . . . Another son, Lee, starred at center for Ut. Lebanon High school, which, undefeated in 20 games, lost to Johnstown in a battle for the Class AA championship.... The Bill Snehrs are raising three fine N. D. pro^ieets. .. . Congratulations to the three who were married recently—Ed Skeehan, Tom Skedian, and Vinee Eichenlanb. 
John McMahon, having accidentally severed several arteries and tendons in his leg, spent a trick in the Mercy Hospital, where he was at­tended by Dr. Leo O'DonneU.... Vinee Baifce had as a Thanksiving Day guest Ross O'Shea. '33, Cairo, III. . . . Bill Eberhardt is worldng for. the accounting firm of Price-Waterhouse. 
Norh Rasdier, formerly of diicago, and fcv the past five years football coach at Altoona Hi ^ school, is now working in Pittsburt^ for the Red Rock Cola Company.... Norb's wife and three children are here with him... . 
Sympathy to George and Ed Fitch whose mother died Dec. 13, 1941 Father BaUeiith came &om V. D. tor the funeral... Bodi Gnrsa mat'. Ed are In the F3X 
Jeim guriiM is now hniUbiK for the Cammonwealth Ttint Oianpanir of. ma-, hortfh. 
UniTerari Notre Dame Cqamonian Saaday was observed Iv the ehib. with attmdanx at liua and reeeptioa of Holy- Goiamimioa' at St. FabTa 'Cb> thedral. followed by a breakfast at the Bbtel Wdbcter HUL. 
Jade Kaatercide worlud hard to aid IkOar Bonmald in promoting the annual Rtiaat for 
N. D. men at St. Paul's Monastcnr.. South-Sidk. Jan. 1«, 17. 18. 
Frits Wil M did his bit toward praootinK tta pre-Cbriitmas retreat at St. PanTa Ifnniitwy. for retail store employees. 
Ihanks to FiiU Wihsa for the fine job ha a d of handling tickets for the NJX-Camagie Ihch game, at his men's wear store, theidiy nettinK the club a handsome profit.... Ed Halaati la now a full-Sedged theatrical ''~'""tr acan^ bsi^ ing reodved his license dnrinc Novoaber.... If yoa need or know ol any one or any dob that needs acts or dasee ordMstraa. get in toodi wiUk Ed at 131C bwin St.. Aliqnippa.... Walt Tnr is dmng metallursical work for W. E. K. Oo.... His new address is: B. D. 1. Verona... Art Mwisck owns and operates a service sta&m at 
Charleroi Dan McCarthy was traas&md from the linhart plant of W. E. M. Oat. to the Jeney City plant of the same coopaar.... Bifc Casiphdra in his third year at the Pnlveraltf of Pittsburg medical sd¥x>I.' 
How about jmning as any or every Tbnradar 
at the Sibna Grill of the Hotd Henry, for a 
luncheon and chat? 
Jeha F. FadOi. Jr. 

YOUMGSTOWN, OHIO Cbarin B. Gashwa. JE, 11. UK Ciiiaifc An, Pna.; Chiawe T. Tctt" Shsika^ 
•it. US Giaaada Ave,. Scc^ 

The snnnri Christmaui Dance was bdd in the main ballroom of Staadiaa^ Aoditorima on Dae. 
28. Geene Bceeher and his oidiestra played u d 280 eooples attended. Footbalkis Bab Daie. Jtaa Brats; and Fete l>d*saih of the bidi. akos with Bill Chip of Navy, presented antograpbad pictures of the undefeated vardty to the IB(S» fortunate dancers during interaosdon. 
Among the ahunni who were badt in town for the Dance were Jaka Jaxlhdawr from Osnton. J*A Hasan from New York. Jtaa Ctfctia fcom Clevehmd. and Bad Beiaaid and Ed DOan frata Notre Dame. 
The bowling team has just fininhwf the first half of its season and. to the amazement of the member*, it is not in last place. Gabe Wsiia and Jack Kiae are the top scorers with Gcargc Kdbr, BUI Dndevy, CharBa Caahwa. Jsha Msiaa, Gcnr Waif and I helping to keep the team's average down. Ahmmi bowling teams in this vidnity may accept this as a challenge. 
Jake JaxAdawi'a engagement to Hiss Wthaa-Rail, of Sharon, was announced during the holi­days.... Corpora] Spfte Skgd has been trans­ferred to Norfolk. Va.. where he is doing war duty at the Naval base.... Fhn& Vaisikh is now Sarge Valetich... Kaity Shea of'Cleveland la. working in town.... Gabe Mma is now in 0» purchasing department of Antoontie Sprinkto... Jim Laatnaaa. '41, has moved here froa Haas­mond. Ind. and is working at IVasean Stad while awaiting a call from the Marines. 
The Club extends it dncertst sympathy to Fiaak '. HefUw; '40. on the death of Us brotber, Walter. ' late in Deeezdier. 
Pete! 

»

THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Virginia Cheevers and John T. Houlihan* *CU. of Chicago. 
Miss Margaret Ann Robinson and Ralph F. Else, '34, of Auburn, N. Y. 
Miss Margaret Ann Lambert and James H. Sheik, '35, of Scarsdale, N. Y. 
Miss Barbara Jean Lilly and William C. Kcefe* '35, of BronxviUe, N. Y. 
Miss Wanda Jennings and Lcuis F, Crj-stal, *36, of Peoria. 
Miss Julia Marie O'Connor and James T. O'Don­nell, '3/, of Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Miss Margaret Doran and John Firth, '38. of BrookljTi. 
Miss Florence V. McDermott and Walter J, Harris, Jr., '38, of Jersey City, N. J. 
Miss Marion Lauer and Eugene Vaslett, '3S, of Brooklyn. 
Miss Rosamund Murphy and Corporal John Kelley, '38, of Camp Edwards, Mass. 
Miss Dorothy Ann Cunningham and Lieut. George BL Elmore, '3S. of Gunter Field, Ala. 
Miss Florence V. McDermott and Walter J. Harris, Jr., '38, of Jersey City, N. J. 
Miss Jean Louise Fridmore and Robert J. Bryan, '38. of South Bend. 
Miss Wilma Rail and John C. Jaxthcimcr, '39, of Canton, O. 
Miss Betty M. Walsh and Lieut. Philip J. Ma­loney, U.S.M.C., '39, Puerto Rico. 
Miss Rita Hanley and William R. Dillon, '40, of Kenihvorth, lU. 
Miss Louise Mae Ferris and Thomas C. Vincent, in , '41, of New Canaan, Conn. 
Miss Betty Francis Wilson and Richard E. Widnp, ex. '42, of South Bend. 
Marriages 
Miss Eleanor Morris and Vincent J. Eichenlanb, '31, -were married Jan. 8., in Duquesne, Pa. 
l^e marriage of SUss Luella C. EUck and James 

A. Curico, '32, took place Nov. 22, at Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Mary A. Costello and HioBUS Skcdian, '33, took place Oct. 25, in Braddock, Fa. 
Hiss Anita Anne Newblatt and Benjamin H. Weinstein, '33, were married Nov. 30, in South Bend. 
Hie marraige of Miss Elizabeth McGraw and Adrian J. Wadcerman, '35, took place recently in Philadelphia, Pa. 
Miss Elizabeth Mary White and Edward Skee­ban, *35, were married Oct. 4. in Bellevue, Fa. 
The marriage of Miss Lorraine Elizabeth Moi^ rissey and Francis Reed Sinnott, '35, took place Dec 27, in New York City. 
Miss Mary Ann Struck and Lieat. Loais Hans-man, '36. were married Nov. 20, in Dayton, O. 
The marriage of Miss Mildred Metz and John Alichael Powers, Jr., *37, took place Jan, 3, in Houston, Tex. 
Miss Eleanor Mary Reitz and Samnel C- Bor­ziUeri, '38, were married Dec. 12. in South Bend. 
Tlie marriage of Miss Lois Wirbanic and Francis F. Valetich, '38, took place Dec 13, in Baltimore. 
Miss Marie Margaret Organ and J. K:nnetih Vecheman, '38. were married Dec 9, in Chicago. 
Miss Shirley Audrey Squire and Ensign duties 

B. Hayes, '39, were married Dec 20, in State College^ Pa. 
The marriage of Miss Dorothy Patterson and Juan E. CintTon, '40, took place Dec 26, in Dillon Hall Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Vivienne G. Nicholas and Charies M. Bar­rack, *40, were married recently in Enid, Okla. 
The marriage of Miss Lucille Fletcher and Edn-ard J. Bsldinger, '40, took place Jan. 1, in Ligonier, Ind. 
Miss Mary Patricia Maloney and Albert P. Funk, Jr., *40, were married Jan. 3, in LaCrosse, Wis. 
The marriage of Miss Shirley Jane Floody and John W. Barry. *41, took place Jan. 3. in Sooth Bend. 
Miss Marcella Camer and Leroy J, Wieschhaas, '41, were married Dec 27, in Mishawaka, Ind. 
The marriage of Miss Dixie Oehmke and Jalui Carl Fomenko, ex. '41, took place Nov. 29, in South Bend. 
Miss Lucille Seyald and Harry F. McLaasUin. ex. '41, were married Oct. 1, in Royal Oak, Mich. 
Miss Kathleen Copp and Lt. Walter A. Sweitzer. '40, were married Jan. 13, at Key Held, Miss. 
Births 
Judge and Mrs. Glen H. Carbenr* '23. an­nounce the birth of a son, Michael Glen, Nov. 8, in New York City, 
Mr. and Mrs. Albert D. Castellini, *24, announce the birth of a son, on Jan. 2. in Cincinnati. 
A daughter, Margaret Mary, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. C^rge Schwarz, '25, on Jan. 1, in Wichita, Kans. 
Mr. and Mrs. Francis Wilson. '28, announce the birth of a son, Francis, Jr., on Nov. 17,. in Pitts­burgh. 
A son, John Harv^, Jr., was bom to Hr. and Mrs. John Roney, *30, on Nov. 28. in Pittsborgh, Pa. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert HcUnmg, *30, announce the birth of Robert Joseph, on Dec 9, in St. X>ouis. 
A daughter, Charlotte Therese. was born to Mr. and Mrs. Charles Hanniz. Jr., ex. '31, on Dec 13, in £^'attsville, Ind. 
Hr. and Mrs. Richard J. Dericks. '31, annoimce the birth of a son, Bruce John, Nov. 22, in Paterson, N. J. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John A. Kien­er, '32, on Nov. 27, in Lakewood, O. 
Dr. and Mrs. Frank C Tomwd, '32, announced the birth of a son, Timothy James, recently, in Bennington, Vt. 
A son, Timothy Joseph, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Leonard W. Condon, '32, on July 27, in Rockford. 111. 
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene J. Coyne, '33, announce the birth of a son, James Eugene, Jan. 6, in Pitt^nrgh. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Arthar Preko­witz, '33, on Dec. 26, in South Bend. 
Hr. and Mrs. Edward Olczak. '33, announce the birth of a son on Nov. 24, in South Bend. 
A daughter, Carol Jean, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Francis Joseph HcGahren, '34. on Dec. 23, in Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Hr. and Bfrs. Walter Kennedy. '34, announce the birth of a son, David Michael, on Nov. 21, in Stamford, Conn. 
A son, William Bernard, was born to Hr. and Mrs. Joaeph Conlon, '35, on July 30, in Albany, 
N. Y. 
Mr. and Hrs. Robert Shanahsn, .'35, announce the birth of a daughter, Ava Maria, on Nov. 11, in Buffalo, N. Y. 
Hr. and Mrs. John H, Neeson. D. '35. announce the birth of a son. John H., HI., on Dec 25, in Philadelphia. 
A son, Frederick Nicholas, was bom to Hr. and Mrs. Charlss M. Pieroni, '36, on Nov. 25, in Mnncie. Ind. 
Hr. and Mrs. Leo R. Boyle, '38, announce the birth of a son, Jan. 8. in South Bend. 
A dau^ter. Sheila Hargaret, was bom to Ur. and Hrs. Jerry J. Shine, '38, on Nov. 19, in Indianapolis. 
Hr. and Mrs. Robert J. Kvatsak. '39, announce the birth of a son. Robert J., Jr., on Nov. 27, in Pittsburgh. 
A dau£^ter, Katherine K., was born to Hr. and Mrs. Naik J, BGtchell* Jr.* '39, on Dec 17, in Chicago. 
Deaths 
Word of the death of General Edoardo F. UBT, '01, of Hexico C;ty. Hex., formerly Hinister of Foteisn Relations of Hexico, has come to the Alumni office, but further details are unfortun* ately missing. Clippings or other news concemins: General Hay's death will be appreciated. 
P« d H. HcBride, 189S-1902, an outstanding ex­pert on foreicm marbles, died in his home in New York Dec. 30> of a heart attack. Mr. UcBride was formerly president of the HcBride Studios, which has Ions been operated by his family and whose Carrara marble workings, executed mostly for the Catholic Church, are internationally known. He was one of the organizers of the Notre Dame Club of New York. He is survived by his widow, two d&ughters, and a son. 

Mr. HcBride, in the course of his business, spent many years in Italy. He was one of the organizers and charter members of the American Cbamuer of Commerce in Uilan. Throughout the First World War, he organized and managed an American Red Cross food distribution station for families of the Italian soldiers. During the in­fiueuza epidemic, following the war, he main­tained a ho^ital and furnished badly needed medical supplies for the whole district. For his untiring work he was made a Enight of the Crown of Italy by the King. 
No official, final pronouncement has been issued by the War Department up to this writing, and by this one slender thread hangs the hope that Major Hugh F. McCaffery, LL.B., '27, and seven other high Army officers and enlisted men, miss­ing since Dec 12 on a transcontinental flight between Falmdale and Hamilton Field, Calif., are not dead. 
The big army transport, carrying Major General Herbert A. Dargue, commanding general of the First Army Air Force, Col. Charles W. Bandy, oi the War Department general staff. Major McCaf­fery, and five others, took off Dec. 12 from Phoenix. Ariz., for Hamilton Field. It was last reported about two miles south o£ Falmdale. 
While at the University Hugh captained the swimming team. He had previously attended Pennsylvania Military College. Entering the Air Corps primary training school as a flying cadet in 1929, be was graduated the following year from the advanced flying school attack course. On Feb. 15, 1930, Hugh was commissioned a second lieu­tenant in the Air Reserve. 
As a second lieutenant, he was stationed at Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md.. until May 1935. He was then promoted to first lieutenant and transferred to I^angley Field* Va. Early in 1939 his tour of duty took him to Hickham Field, Havnui, and shortly thereafter he received lus captaincy. Within the past year Hugh became Major McCaffery and was attached to the £lrst Army Air Force headquarters at Mitchell Field, 
N. Y. 
Father Tom Brennan phoned the sad news of the death on Dec. 1, of Roswell C. Leahy. *2S, Tiffin, O., who had been ill and died as the result of an operation. 
Philip C. XiSndsman, LL.B., '29, president of the Notre Dame Club of Berrien County, Mich., and a prominent Buchanan, Mich., attorney, died Dec. 1. from internal chest injuries, suffered in an accident the same day when his car collided with a milk truck near Berrien Springs, Mich. 
Phil had served as Buchanan city attorney in 1938 and 1939. Intensely ixiterested in Notre Dame, he gave mudi time and energy to promoting the school's interests in southwestern Michigan and was a frequent visitor on the campus. 
Funeral services were held in Buchanan with Casper R. Grathwohl, '29. of Niles, Mich., one of Phil's closest friends, as a pallbearer. Sur­viving ate seven brothers and four sisters. 
Thmnas S. Tarr^ '32, died suddenly of a heart attack Dec 24, Christmas eve, in his Chicago office at the age of 33. The University was stunned to hear that one of her great AI!­
American centers was dead. 
Tommy won his first monogram as a substitute for Tim Moynihan in 1929, and in 1930 he took over first string duties. IBs senior year was his greatest. Tommy led the team as captain and won all-American honors on the Associated Press con­sensus team and many others. During his tenure at center. Notre Dame lost but one game. 
In Notre Dame's two hardest names of 1931, the scoreless tie with Northwestern and the 16-14 lost quarter defeat at the hands of Southern Cali­fornia, Tom was outstanding. Five times during the Northwestern, game, he shot the mud-cov»ed ball back to Marchy Schwartz, when the latter was standing behind his own goal Une to punt. It came back perfectly every time, althou^ one of Yarr's hands was in a cast, broken, and the other was cut to the bone from a flying cleat. In the Southern California ganra Tom stood out as a player of high courage and a will to win. 
F^irt Indian, Tommy carried the nickname of "Wahoo" throughout his years at Notre Dame. He had attended high school on an Indian reser­vation in Chinecum, Wash. Returning to Notre Dame as an assistant coach under Hnak Ander­son in 1932, Tom spent two years at the Um­versity before joining the Chicago Cardinals for a year of professional football- The following year he took over as head coach of John Carroll Uni­versity in Cleveland and remained there until 1937. In that year he entered business in Chicago, where for the last five years he has worked as an office manager of the Local Loan Co. Surviving are his wife, three daughters, four sisters, and a brother. 
The funeral in Chicago was held at Our Lady ' Help of Christians Church on Dec 29. Burial was in Calvary cemetery. Among the pallbearers were Frank Leahy, '31; Bert Metzger, '31; John Qmnn, '20; Al Culver, '32, and Mike Koken, '33. 
Ensign George A, Wolf, ex. '39, was killed in Pacific action, according to word reaching the Alumni OSice. George attended Notre Dame in 1935-36, and was graduated from Georgetown University in 1939. 
Word of the tragic death of Lieat. James T. Connell, '40, killed Dec 3, in ta plane crash In Africa reached the office just as the Decemlbei' "Alumnus" was going to press, so the Alumnus carried the sad news in a box on page nine of the December issue. 
Killed. Dec. 18, in an army training plane crash, Eaxene A. Poletto, *40, of Clinton, Ind., is one more Notre Dame man who died serving his country. Details of Eugene's death are unfortun­ately lacking. 
The "Alumntis" extends sincere sympathy to Radclph Kelly, '13. upon the death of his father; Frank E. CoogUin, '21. upon the death of his daughter; William F. Rcardon, *26, upon the death of his father; Alexander L. Doads, ex. '27, upon the death of his mother; Thomas Collins, '28, up­on the death of his father; Roland Barice. '28. upon the death of his mother; Joseph Rtcn^, '28. and Eugene D. Rtgney, '31, xipon the death of their mother; Dr. Paul G. Tobin. '28, Dr. Jaaws 
W. Tobin, '29, and John R. Tohin. Jr.. '38. upon the death of their mother; Georffe Fitch, *29, and Edwin Fitdi, '32. upon the death of their moth^; George T. Weber, Jr„ ex. '30, upon the death of his father: BCT. Joseph H. Fiedler. C.S.C M.A., '32, upon the death of his mother; Rij»sii< 
P. Boyce, *32. upon the death of his moQier: Robert E. Lee, Jr.. '32, and Havrice W. Le*, *33, upon the death of thdr mother; WlQiaai Gefsea. 
'35,' upon the death of his daoi^ter: Jafai K, Allea, *35, and ttmjmmmd B. JUleii* '40. upon the death of their fistber; Edward W. SiidL 'S8, upon the death of bis mother; SL A. Zdbr* ex. '38, upon the death of his mother; Balph Hnar. '39. upon the death of his two brothers; Beraaid Jaeccr* '41. upon the death of a aster; Fiank MoftdoM, '40, upon the death of his brother. 
Personals 
Before 1890 
p. E. Baifce. '88, MI Caan, New Otiiun, 
Aceoidine to s late December New York "Times" clippinsr, Williui A. WaUk, '97. had been cbosen citr manaser of Tonken, N. Y. for a term of two years. Hr. Walah was formerly corporation counsel, city indse and mayor of Yonkers. 
Stewart McDnuIi, ex. '98, was recently elected president of tbe Maryland Casualty Company. He is'also director of the Baltimore and Ohio Bail-road and a member of the board of the Baltimore 
' National Bank. Hr. McDonald formerly was the Federal Hoosin? Administrator, followinsr his re­tirement as a manafacturer of farm implements, banker, and president of a motor company. 
lOOA OO ''**^ '* ^ MacNaaiara, "97, lOYv-T T Saint leaeph-a IDncnl Balka, HMnt Clemens, Hick. 
From Father Hae: ­The news of the deaths of Frofesaw Edward Maaias. Ckailca Biyan, and An,as HacDawdi will brins sorrow to all the old students of the *90*s and to tbe alumni in seneraL Professor Uauras was known to senerations of students as he taught mathematics at the University from his graduation until bis retirement several years ago. He was one of that fine band of laymen who have devoted thdr lives to Notre Dame and her ad­vancement. 
Charles Bryan and Angus HacDonald tocdc an active part in all branches of student activities in their college days and after their graduation took a lively interest in evoything that pertained to their Alma Hater. Notre Dame men everywhere will join in prayers for the eternal repose of their souls. 
Bbngcr 1900-04 BaiUing, Elkkait, Ind. 
Ihe late Senator Peter B. lieBMs. es. '02, of Lennon, Hidi., beloved by the citizens of that small city, was honored by the erection of; a monument in the state park near the town. 
A new, dipping written last Septendier at the time of tbe dedication of the monument had this to say of him: "State officials and others from various sections of Hichigan and especially from all parts of Shiawassee and Genesee coontiea will~ partidpate in tbe usvdiing of the nonument. Yet 
' it win be tbe mei. women, and diBdren of Lennon and vidnity who will he the most grateful for tbe opportunity to pay tribute to the memory of a man, who devoted Ua life to tbdr wdfare. For while Pete Lennoa as state senator became one of the foremost leaden in state affair*; he always found time to bdp sidve the problems of the foDcs he hned, his nd^boi s and friends. Pete Lennon was an attmaey, hot his practice of law was eonllned almost entirdy to aiding his fiteids in time of trouble, and always without diarge." 
The town of Lennon obtained its name fram Peter LennoB'a father, on. of the j^oneers of that­sectian. On the death of Us father, Peter Lonca returned to the <dd hone, and supenlssJ tbe operation of the large Lennon farm on the edge of the town. 
• AAI T A n Rev. Thomas E. Barke, CS.C, I TUO'U y '07. Notre Dame, Ind. 
I A I n Reverend M. L. Moriarty, Saint Blarr's 1 7 I U Chnrdi, Mentor, O. 
 Fred Steers, 1666 First National Bank 
ml 
I BIdg., Chicago, IIL 
IA I O ''' '-^*^^^' 324 Fourth St., Pitts-ITlZhatch. Pa. 
1^1 ^ Pan! R. Byrne, University Library, I V I ^ Notre Dame, Ind. 
1^1 ^ Frank H. Hayes, 642 Third Ave., ITl^ChnU Vista. CaUf. 
I ^ I M James E. Sanford, 5341 3Iagnolia Ave., I 7 I 9 Chicago, m. 
IQ I # Graver BEUer, 610 Wisconsin Ave., I 7 I O Racine. Wis. 
I A I -* B. J. Voll, 206 E. Tutt St., Sooth 171 / Bend, Ind. 
DONT LET HITLER OE THE JAPS STOP YOU 
from attending the 25th reunion of your class next June. Write Bernard J. VoU, Gencnd Bennion Chairman, 206 E. Tutt St., South Bend. Ind., for details. 
From Bemie VoU: 
In a modest sort of way the SEVENTEENERS have stirred into being. Dick Daley \vrites from Erie, Pa. that be will be ^vith us in June and that on a recent trip to Syracuse he tried to look up Dutch. Yeaffer but could not determine the proper Yeager from the telephone directory and lack of time prevented his following it up. The night before the Southern California game Harry Banjan, John Cassidy, Paul Fogarty, and myself represented the SEVENTEEN class in a little group and briefly discussed the reunion in June. A Christmas card from Bill Andres advises that he hopes to be with us at the Centennial in June. 
On the 29tb of December, while standing in the lobby of the Pennsylvania Hotel in New York City, I was approadied by a distinguished looking priest who proved to be none other than our old classmate Lawrence Cain of Waterbury, Vt. He has been ordained for 20 years and is now pastor of a parish in Waterbury. His bishop willing, he ^ci)ects to be with us in June. I picked up Oscar Darwin on the same trip, and he'also has given me assurance that he will join our reunion group. 
In Philadelphia I spent an hour or two in the beautiful home of Breen McDonald, who is an expatriate from San Francisco. Priorities are forc> ing him to close his business in Philadelphia and he is returning to San Francisco because, as he expresses it, "it is nicer to star\'e in California than in Philadelphia." He may be going West about the time of our reunion and if so, will be with OS. 
Howmrd PariEer, in his annual Christmas letter, invites us to come to San Rrancisco in February, promises ns no rain, and that the west coast will be back to normalcy by that time. He passes on a bit of interesting news about our bid classmate Leo Vogd, of Pittsburg^, who was in San Fran­cisco on his way to a sjrot somewhere in the Pacific Leo apparently has some important work to do for Uncle Sam and was a bit doubtful about his ability to return in time for the reunion. The best of luck, Leo. 
Parker will be ^vith us and is already prac­ticing up some of the old tunes. The Glee Chib crowd can be assured of an opportonity to vocalize. 
Joe Moran was in from Tulsa and reported that his brother Ed is busy as usual bat promised to get him thinking about the reunion. 
How about some more of you SEVENTEEN£RS writing us about your plans? 
John A. Lemmer, 901 Lake Share 1918 Drive, Escanaba, Midi. 
Clarence Bader, £50 Pierce St , Gaiy* 
Ind. 
1919 
Leo B. Ward. 1012 BUdc BMr^ L M 1920 Angeles, Calif. 
Your secretary, who claims that he hasn't yet sought out his bomb shelter, wrote ten letters to fond classmates and received four replies from Harry Nester, Lyie Hnsroaker, Congressman Joe O'Hara and Bill Fox. "Die latter two had news and stuff. First, the congressman, who says: 
"As you undoubtedly know, there are a number of Notre Dame men in and about Washington. There are four Notre Dame graduates on Capitol Hill—Senator Worth Clark of Idaho and Con­gressmen Vince Harrington of Iowa, Brtcrt Grant of Indiana and myself in the House. Of the four, two are Democrats and two are B^ab­licans, shelving the unanimity of those at Notre Dame on the subiect of politics. Some of the sturdy Irish Democrats viewed me with sn^icion until they learned that I still attend Mass on Sunday. 
"I have met Charles DIener, who is like myself an alumnus of old St. Joe Hall. He has an im­portant position with the FHA and recently re­moved to New York. I have also seen. Fred McGaire. former track man and his^ jumper, who is also with the FHA, and Alfred (Dutch) Bergmann, who is very prominent as former coach of Catholic TTmversity and now has a good connection with C^vil Aeronautics. I have also heard from Emmett A. Boylians, who is now living at Oaklyn, N. J. Tom Hodgaou is tempor­arily in Washington and is an important figure in the legal department of the Federal Beserve Bank.... I have one son at Notre Dmme this year and expect that there will be two of them there next year. I would enjoy a personal letter from you as to your activities and your fanuly. as I see no reason why the secretary of our class should be exempted from gi%ing the rest of us an account of his activities in preserving and spreading the Four Freedoms." 
Sports Editor Fox follows in with this: 
"If you will send a list of the Class of '20 I may be able to help out some on your recent request. I'm ashamed to say I don't know much about the crowd. You see I was sort of a half member of that outfit because my class was *18 and that last scrimmage we had with Germany was the occasion for my b^ng adopted—at my request—^by the Class of '20. 
"It might be interesting to find out how many of that class was in the same boat, what branch of the service they were in, what they are doing now and so on. If that is an idea yoa woiJd care to work on it might soothe some of those who fed the class secretary has been negligoit in obtaining notices for the boys of '20. 
"Personally, Pm still pounding out sport stuff for the Indianapolis "News." You nug^t get BKe Moore to tell you about the time a gang of oar '20 class met in Chicago, had a dinner and called long distance to Father Tobin, out your way and really had a time, everyone having s<»nething to say to him. I^erhaps he would tell the story and maybe suggest that other groups of the class get together occasionally. Uaybe the Glass of '20 as a groop c»ald do something about defense together —buy some bonds or stamps and give them to some worthy recipient or buy a million cigarets and send them to Wake Island or Pearl Harbor." 

Hanr Nester, like Joe O'Hara, will be repre­sented on the campus next year—whenever that is according to current interpretations. Harry's oldest boy is already signed up. 
From a letter from Joseph Harrington, *30. we learned that Pawl Jimcnex, ex. *20, is the present alcalde (mayor) of Panama CTity. and a member of the new reform government there. 
B. A. HcGarry, formerly of the firm, McGarry and McGarry. architects and engineers, CTIevdand. is associated veith the Public Buildings Administra­tion. Federal Works Agency. Washington, D. C, with the title of construction engineer. At present he is supervising work on the St Louis post office building and the St. Louis Court House. 
 W. Duffy, iceo Terminal Tower, 
1921 Dan 
Cleveland. O. 
100 0 ^'>I<1 -'^•'K' *i West Avenue. Hilton, 
From G. Kid Aihe: 
J* n "T^iffy" Hart is now a resident of Syra­cuse, N. Y. John is manager of the Niagara Motor Express Co, a subsidiary of the V. S. Trucking Corporation. Prior to last September the Harts readed in (Sncinnati. 
A most welcome Christmas card was received from Frank Bloemer and fanuly. The Bloemers live in Fewee Valley, Ky., a suburb of Louisville. It is hard to mention Eentuelcy without wonder­ing about Eddie and Comie Pfeiffer. We hope they repent some day and drop tis a line. 
We received a note from Jack Higgins telling of his surprise meeting with Judge AI Scott at the Southern Cal. game. Jack is a member of the tow firm of Wurzer and Higgins, Detroit. Judge AI presides in the Superior Court of California. 
Fatker George B. Fischer, C.S.C.. completed a misaon at Our Lady of Victory (Father Baker's diurdi), in Lackawanna, N. Y., just prior to Christmas. He then enjoyed a brief vacation at bis home in Rochester before continuing his work in the East. 
Aaron B. Hognenard. "22. South Bend attorney and St. Joseph County democratic chairman, has recently been appointed chaimum of a four man alien board to investigate and prosecute enemy aliens in the northern Indiana federal district United States Attorney General Francis Biddle approved Mr. Hugnenard's appointment as chair­man of the board. 
Paol H. Castner. 137 Sooth Ave.. New 
1923 
Canaan. Conn. 
I O^A ^- *•• Hayes. SM 7th Ave., Room 1515. I wZrf New York City. 
IOO C '"*" ^- Hurley, 2085 Brookdak Bead, I TZ 9 Tdedo. O. 
Dm MQlcr one of the famous '*Four Horsemen," and now a prominent Cleveland attorney, was notified Dec 23 of his nomination by President Booaevelt to the position of United States attorney for the northern district of Ohio, a nomination later confirmed by the Senate. Don has been asso­ciated in law with his brother Bay. '14, former Cleveland mayor. 

Pu l Dafmmd recently wrote from Tucson that he had hear from Larry Kcefe, '26, the new benedict, and that William H. Coen, '35, of Afton, la., with his wife and baby bad spent the holidays in Tucson with Hrs. Coen's Darents. the Rdllys of St. Hary's-Notie Dame fame. 
From John Hnrley: 
Just in case you fellows missed the notice under "weddings" in the last "Alumnus/' William ComeUtu Hailcy was married Nov. 8 to Elizabeth Barbara Malone in Saginaw, Mich. That, as -far as I know* takes care of all the bachelors. In case there are any left—let's have a line from you. 
One Christmas card from Leonard and Mary Hess was a nice note, "Will do a little pinch-hitting for lieonard, he Is at the ranch for a few days. We've had a busy year and an especially busy Kovember. Looked at a new house, bought it and moved in in less than two weeks. 
"Wasn't N. D. marvelous this year? How we envy you your opirartunity to see those games 1 We still entertain that eternal hope. Maybe some­day we'll get there." 
Better make it the Michigan game next year, Mary! Hess* new address is 201 Stanford Drive, San Antonio, Tex, 
Hie Dnke Clancys of Indianapolis are also try­ing to beat the "priorities deadline." Duke is a rural gentleman now, according to a note on his card. 
James A. Ronan, 127 N. Dearborn St., 1926 Chicago, lU. 
Joseph SL Boland, Field Honse, Purdue 1927 University, West Lafayette, Ind. 
From Joe Boland: 
Joe O'Donnell, Tommy Green (of Houston, Tex.), Dan Hoore and Ray Slamane all got to­gether in Chicago after the U. S. C. game, evi­dently, at a place called "Adolph's." Sounds as though the boys were in a nostalgic mood that evening. 
Way back in September, Ray McClorT an­nounced the arrival of John Roger at his house. C!ongratulations from all of '27, Ray. 
Lyle Horend, we hear indirectly, is doing well in the oil business in Tulsa. Don Willdns has been "had" by the Army. He's now a captain in the Air Corps in charge of public relations at Wright Field, Dayton, O. George Marrin is now of the new law firm of Morrow, Boyd, and Mur­rin, 1301-11 Commerce BIdg., Houston, Tex. 
Saddest news was the loss of Major Hugh Mc-Caffery, the finest friend of '27, or any year, aboard the same Army• transports with his chief. Major General Dargue, Dec. 12, in the mountains of northern California. All his classmates will remember Hugh at prayer, I know. 
Bad Boeiinger, hale and hearty, without the Beech-nut but with the same friendly spirit, was met up with at the Football Coaches Convention, Dec. 27, in Detroit Bud is still line coach at the University of Detroit; the same job he's held since graduation. 
Gene Edwards, head coach at St. Vincent's, La­trobe. Pa., was another unchanged since college days. Can't say as much for Joe BUxweO, who roomed with your scrivener at Detroit. We're running an unwilling race for Bemie Lirergood's style of hair-do. 
Happy New Year, '27—write, if you get the time and inclination, or even if you don't. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Gcorxe Sadlicr, ex. '27, is secretuy-trauonr 
for the Union Federal Savings and Loan Asao-' 
ciation, 137 East Market St., Indianapolis. 
 F. Badder, 4481 Cvadiat lU^ 

1928 
Lotus 
Washington, D. C. 

From Loa Backley: 
A letter from Hudson Jeiferys from Ironton, O., written in response to John Bokinasa's retioest for news in November, arrived too late to be included in the December issue. Hudson writes as follows: 
"Our classmate Pan] Falter, '28, of Ironton is working in Columbus, O., with the Industrial Commision of Ohio, and Alex Glodner. '27, is the local Collector of Internal Revenue, having moved here some months ago with Mrs. Glockner and their little A. J. and Martha. Dr. Joaeph W. Walters, '32, practices here and awaits the time little Christopher can enroll at N. D. Ed Wein­heimer, '34, is the sales representative of the Ironton Fire Brick Co., and lives here when he is not traveling far and wide on behalf of those fine Ironton fire bricks. 
"My activities center around the alliterative, formidable sounding firm of Johnson, Jones, Jenkins and Jefferys where Mrs. Jefferys and our little Molly and Phillippa expect to find me at all hours reasonable to the law practice." 
• One of our guest writers this month, T«a Collins, of Fall River, Mass., did his best to get a response from the Massachusets '28 men, but received only one reply to a dozen requests for news. Unless you give your guest writers more cooperation in the future, I am going to give up this increasingly difficult task of trying to Iceep the '28 class informed of each other's whereabouts. I appreciate your efforts, Tom, especially since it was at the time of the sudden death of your father. You have our sympathy. Tom writes from 166 New Boston Road, Fall River, Mass., that he is with the Sagamore Mfg. Co., a Fall River tex­tile concern. Believe it or not, he is still single and is all ready to be taken in the draft. He writes as follows; 
"Most of my contact with N. D. boys is in Providence, R. I. I belong to the club up there and to mention a few I see—^Leo McAkcn, Jelui McLaughlin and John McKieman every couple of months. Otherwise I don't see many N. D. bojrs. 
"John Bums is married and head of the Soldiers and Sailors Relief. Walt GoS has s cigarette vend­ing business and is single. Jimmy Cooian has his own cleaning business and is married. 'Diese boys are all of Fall River." 
"Frank Kelly of Lee, Mass., wrote to me as follows: 
'Dr. Tom Ferriter, of Westfield, is now a lieutenant in the 104th Massachusetts Infantry. Jack Ronriie (sprinter on the track team) is a salesman working out of Detroit. (What line he did not say.) John Herbert (from Syracuse) is with a candle company and lives in Boston. John is married and has three sons.' 
"Frank himself is a funeral director and in the furniture business up in Lee. His only claim to change since N. D. days is about 50 per cent less hair, although he is married and has three children." 
Thanks, Tom and Frank, for your cooperation. I hope the other fellows who received letters from you, Tom, will reply after receiving this "Alumnus," so you can send in some supplemental material for the March issue. 
I had a letter from TOM Hakaii, who is spedal agent for the Northwestern Mntoal lif e Insoranee Co. in St. Paul, in reply to my request that he be one of oor guest writers for naxt imam. Joafe as Tom was preparing letters to send out for news, he received word that the leshafflins of the draft would eatdi vp urith him in » coivia of wedcs, so h« will have to take s rain dieek until after the war. Good hide, Tom. and drop ns a line occasionally so we will know where yoa are located. 
Bcmkc Gaikcr and Bill Ksnep will be oor guest writers for the March issoe. Bemie is located at 300 W. 109th St.. New York Oty and Bill's address is B. R. 16, Box 28. lr,iBm.jy^;. Ind. 
Just as I became resigned to the thought that oor column would be rather brief this monUi. our second guest writer, Kan Kiley, came throat with an exceptionally fine newsworthy rqKurt on the New Jerscr gang for which I am veir thank­fuL Ross writes from 7M Broad St. Newark; N. J. as follows: 
"Between serving on the local Defoise Council in Orange, actinff as director of publie wcarka, chairman of the President's Birthday Committee and trying to practice law, I found it extremely difficult to dash off a note to you setting forth the activities of Notre Dame '28ers in New Jersey as I promised to do last month. 
"Toss (Chiv) Parcel! is practicing law in New York City, being associated with the firm of Has-Farlane and Monroe, is happily married, living in Glen Rock, N. J., and the father of a boy-about three years old. 
"Carl Zwigard is still living in Maplewood. is a bachelor and is engaged in building a number of homes in this area. Jack Byaa is living in Newark and is associated with his fath« in the barrd and cooperage businew. He is not married. Teay Ceres is married, living in Perth Amboy, teaching in Perth Amboy' High school and also praeticinK law. He has become very active in politics and is now standard bearer of an organ­ization bearing his name^ one of the largest in Middlesex Csunty. 
"Bin (Wee) Brawn was appointed last year to the office of secretary of the Board of Education of Orange, after having ven t the last ten years in the eonstmeUon hueaness. K s knowledge ofc this game served him in good stead as his first' task was to erect a sdiool stadium, one of the finest of its kind in New Jersey. ^Hiat he was successful is indicated by the fact that the Beard has appointed Bill, as a result of his efforts; for life with a substantial increase in salary. He is married and has a son and a .daughter. 
"Jade Wincerter was married last year to 
•seer BresBn's sister. The last I heard of Jade he was with "mme" magsrine and was living in Hontclair. Saccr Bmlia is practicing law in Lyndhurst, N. J., and also has an office in Hackensack where his brother is prosecutor of pleas of Bergen county. Jaka Winbsrrr is still single and is connected with the Department of Internal Revenue in Newark. He is still living in Rutherford and is serving as president of the Notre Dame Club of New Jersey. 
"I haven't heard from Adriaa L^ez of Mont­dair in a number of years. I understand that he is now the editor and publisher of a national magarane. 
Jisi Hartley, who is now living in EidgeSeld Park, N. J. writes that for the past several yean he has been quite ill and tor that reason has not seen many Notre Dame men. Be mentiona that ' he was in Rodiester on his vaeatioa recently and attempted to locate Caean Hatdi. but was adrised that he had been traniferrad to aaodier diT. Jim's married and has one son s little orer a years old. He is associated with the American Can CooDpany in Newark. 
'The rest of the Jersey gang is still very active and I see a number of them quite frequently. I had the fileasure of acting as godfather for Bob Huetz's ('29) son, which incidentally makes his fourth child, tn-o of them being halfbacks and one a quarterback. 
"Last November I served as campaign manager of the Essex Assembly ticket, 'which had Sam Colamuo. '29. as a candidate and Bill Carter, '27, as publicity director. Both did a great job and if it hadn't been for the campaign manager would undoubtedly have been successful. As it developed, the ticket made a grand showing considering the fact that the county went overwhelmingly Re­publican. 
I had dinner last Sunday with John Colerick, '30. John is now acting as manager of the Mont­clair Athletic Club and for the first time in years has succeeded in putting the club back on a paying basis. He has formulated an athletic policy and social scheme that makes the club one of tlie most outstanding in New Jersey." 

Tom Can* came through with the following from Neptune City, N. J. where he is with the Coast Cities Coaches, Inc. 
*"niere Is not a great deal I can tell you about 

N. D. men. I only see a few of them. Had lunch with Jim Silver the other day in Asbury Park. Jim, you most likely remember, was a catcher on the N. D. team when we were there. Jim is a lawyer and quite interested in a real estate de­velopment in South Jersey. Coach 'Clipper' Smith and his assistant, Bntdi Brano just completed a very successful season in Asbury High—unde­feated. 
''Herb HoCabe, '28, and I listened to a few of the games together this fall. Since my last report, I have acquired a new title—^vice-president.... I have four children—^three girls and a boy: Peggy, six; Denise. four; Louis (Lee), three, and Ellen, one. 
"After noting Doc Forge's seven; roommate Leo Sdmeider's five; Bob Eitby's five; etc, I think I will drop out of the race. Those guys don't give you a chance." 
R. Floyd Searer, trust ofificer of the First Bank and Trust Company of South Bend and president of the St. Joe Valley Notre Dame Club, was one of the prindpal speakers on the trust conference program of the Indiana Bankers Association held Dec 3 and 4 in Indianapolis. 
Wmiun E. BlaUn, metallurgical engineer for the Feeder Engineering Dept, of Westinghouse Electric and Hfg. Company, East Pittsburgh, was the writer of an editorial on the inside cover of "American Fonndiyman" magazine, as chairman of the Gray Iron Division Committee on Classifi­cation of Graphite in Gray Iron. T?irough the courtesy of Bill's father. Dr. E. G. Mahin, head of the University's Department of Metallurgy, "Instruments Magazine" has for its cover a pic­ture of the instrumentation in his department, showing furnaces in which si>ecimens have been held at constant temperature for two years. 
Gemve Leppir was recently appointed to the warrant rank of marine gunner in the Marine Corps; he was advanced from the enlisted rank of platoon sergeant. George has been serving in the Fleet Marine Force at San Diego for about a year. Acccnding to a Marine announcement be is qualified as expert with rifle, pistol, automatic rifle, and Ifaompson automatic submachine gun. One of the best shots in the Marines, George served miix the Corps rifle team. He has been in the Marine Oozps since 1933. 
P. . McNamara, Attorney Gen­1929 craPa Office, fodianapolis, Ind. 
Attorney-General George N. Beamer, of South Bend, is the new ex-officio member of the ad­visory council to the Indiana civilian ih'ffnfff 
board. 
Paul L. (Bud) Clark is confined to the Julius' Marks Sanatorium in Lexington, Ky, and will be there for a year or so. His former bnriness asso­ciate Phil J. Tompkins of Lexington, sent in the bad news, and asked that friends write Bud.' A letter from his old classmates will do much to raise his spirits. 
1930 
Richard L. Donoghne, 310 Riverside Dr., New York City. 
Louis Chaplean was named to the board ot 

governors of the St. Joseph County Bar Associa­
tion at a December meeting of the organization. 
Brother Rupert, C.S.C., was recently selected as 

a member of the children's committee of the Na­
tional Conference of Catholic Charities at its 
national convention in Houston, Tex. Brother 
Rupert has served for seven years as director of 
the Gibault school for boys in Terre Haute, Ind. 
The school was fotmded in 1921 by the Kii^t s 
of Columbus of the Indiana jurisdiction to care 
for the Catholic underprivileged boys and at 
present serves the needs of eight dioceses. 
 Bervan, 838 E. Colfax Ave.. 1931 John 
Soath Bend, Ind. 
FVom John Bergan: 

With the reclassification of army age limits, many of the class bachelors will be wearing the colors by the time that you read this column and many more, barring disabilities, -mil be in tiie army the end of this month. In order that a record may be complete we should like your military 
Hie class was saddened indeed by the untimely death of Tommy Yarr on Dec 24. Though Ibm had been in ill health for some time, be was always bright in spirit and was always a fine host for members of the class around him. We can recall his entry at school when he rocnaed with Nordy Hoffmann and Heinle Bo ^ in Fresh­man Hall. We will miss Tom Yarr and widi to express our sincere sympathy to his widow and family. Many of the class attended his funeral and among the pallbearers were Fkank Leahy, Al Culver and Bert Metzger. 
Joe Boyland the New Amsterdam insurance field man, was a South Bend visitor the middle of January. Bill Habing, the Indianapolis badidor, is anxiously awaiting his draft number like many more of us but in the meantime is kept busy irith the Indiana IVpothetac Congratulations to Mr. and Mrs. George Jadcaboioe on the birth of George, Jr., late in December. Ward O'Conim: is still in Bayonne. N. J. and is grooming Ward, Jr., and James for their entry into Notre Dame. Bill Beming sends word, that he can now be reached at Beeville, Tex., and that there is a cot there for any weary traveler of the class. 
Word from Manila informs us that Ed MeBaa was injured in tiie bombing there and considerable damage was done to his family's .property and, particularly, to the Manila Brewery in which Ed held the position of vice president. 
Didc Baker may be reached at Nazareth college, Kalamazoo, Mich. He is a member of the phHos­aphy ^icolty. Bill Cerri, formerly of South Bend. is now with the government housing C(»nmis8i<m in Panama. Oliver Field has left the insurance department of the state of Illinois and is now doing fidd work for a Chicago insurance company. Ed Foley is in the time study department of the Wankegan branch of the American Can Ca 
Alfred Gall, ex. '31, is now correlating his ar­chitectural training with his journalistic Virility in his new job as associate editor of the ardil­tectural magarine "Pendl Points," published mtrnthly by the Beinhold Publishing Corporation. New Tork City. 
 Hynm £ . Crawford, €718 Frank­1932 Dr. 
lin Ave., Cleveland, O. 
F^m Hike Crawford: 
If no news is good news, all our boys must be proq^ering, or has Pearl Harbor made them forget the Reunion? Not a letter or word received in two months—isn't that some sort of record, GiOTcio and Igoe? 
Sylvester (Bus) Haas, ex. '32. is in Farrell, Pa. 
as an inspector in the Army Ordnance Depart­
ment. Bus reiMrts sedng Ed DeBartido, '32, a 
few months ago, near Youngstown, where Ed is 
in the construction business. 
How about some news, boys? 
F. Baden Powell writes: "... . the Navy took me as a yeoman 2nd class. I'm temporarily sta­tioned at the Houston Recruiting Station because I know shorthand and typing. (That I had to pick up in night school in Omaha). I got out of the Army Sept. 23 because of my old age (31) and have always wanted to be in the Navy. It's swell. Please, friends of '31. '32, and '33, write me in care of Naval Recruiting Station, Houston, 
Ofex." 
John Kiener has several causes for pride. On Nov. 27 he welcomed the arrival of his first child, a son. And recently he was named head of the Radio Communications Division of the Civilian Defense Committee of (Cleveland. 
Capt. Danid Pflaam, writes: "On June 23, 1941, I was ordered to extended active duty from Denver, Colo, to Edgewood Arsenal, Md., as first lieutenant. Chemical Warfare Service, and was assigned to the Industrial Engineering Division. On July 25, I was promoted to captain. On Jan. 1, 1942, I was ordered from Edgewood Arsenal to Niagara Falls, N. Y.. where I am now stationed at the Niagara Falls Plant of the Chemical War­fare Service. Vy present address is 715 Walnut Av e Niagara Falls. N. Y." 
1933 
Tlshe Woodi. 794« EUU Ave., 
Chicago, 
m. 
F^om Tiche Woods: 

Hie sogsestion that some of the class use one of th ^ extra Christmas cards to iot down some news and send it on to me worked, at least enongfa to fill the column for this issue. So here 
Fran Muriee Seanlon—"Picked up tlie Decem­ber issue of the "Alumnus'* and was tickled to death to bear news of some of my classmates. If posable should like to learn the addresses of Gc«ive Lennartz, my roommate in Badin, and of Hike Oyle (Sarin). 
I'm living in Uilwaukee as 'division manager for the American Tobacco Co., in the state of Wis­consin and Upper Michigan. Harried Anne Hayes of St. Kary*s and have two children, Maureen, 7 and Terry, 2. I see Bill CoOins, '33, John Batke, '34, Tarn Downs and Norm Christian occasionally. 
llianks Maury. George Lennartx can be reached st 435 Elmore Ave., Pbrk Ridge, HL, but Bill Pnh y will have to insert Mike Coyfe's address as I don't have it, [Mike's address is Tawas Gty, Mich.] 
Fh m Detroit, Jack Breen comes through with— "Swell idea, this, for alumni news. Ernie Gargara is still a badielor and going strong in the con­tracting business. The Vie Sduelfners are ex­pecting a second arrival this q>ring, as are the Bab Pawdb. Bob is in yoor field, managing a string of apartment houses. Ted FeUiaan is now my brolher-in-Iaw, but I can hardly notice the change because he's been smoking my cigarettes for years anyway. I was wed at the Log Chapel last Hay with Ed Hbriarity as best man. Ed is a frequent Chicago visitor now, having a "heart* located there." 
Thanks, and much belated congratulations. Jack. What is Sdiaeffner doing to keep the hair out of his eyes these days? Ted Feldman used enough of my stationery back in Walsh Hall \vriting letters; if he is still in practice tell him to write and send the next batch of news from Detroit. 
And from St. Louis by way of Roland "Oscar" Dames—"Here's a report from St. Louis and vicinity. Our class is not well represented here. I'm the only one of '33 from St Louis. T. C, Pinkley is frequently seen selling Philipps 66 to cotton gins. Pinell 'Peanuts' Hunter is down in southeast Missouri, too. I understand 'Peanuts' built some big levees to save New Madrid (Mo.). Next time I'm Chicago way I'll give you a ring. I'll send you more news later. Ask Jim Gilfoil of Omega, La., for a report." 
O. K., Jim: you're being asked, and thanks to you, too, Oscar. Don't forget that telephone call. You can always reach me through the Chi­cago Real Estate Board. And finally a letter from Jim Clark who. '.vith his usual efficiency, offers the following—"Murray Booth is married and is employed by the local Housing Administration. He has been teaching in the local high school but expects an appointment as manager of a hous­ing unit so has taken it up seriously. Andy O'Keeffe is in the Army now as a second lieuten­ant. Chuck Fiss is one of Wisconsin's leading undertakers and has three children. 
Frank Madden hops out to Pittsburgh every other week to see Smokcy Coyne. Frank is era-ployed by the city of Jersey City—in other words, a master politician. Howard Duval is way up in Michigan with the road department of that state. Ho expects to be in the Army soon. William Hig­gins is employed in the publication department of the New York 'News/ the world's largest news­paper. David Powers is a professor at Queens College and he is now at Daytona Beach with his -wife for a brief vacation. I have just been ap­pointed rubber rationing administrator for the county of Hudson by the governor of New Jersey." 
A few more letters like that. Jim, and ray job would be a cinch. By the way how's chances on a set of 6.00 x 6.25's. I won't even insist on white side walls! And now how about a word from Gene Calhoan out in Los Angeles (is it true that Bentley Ryan dances with all those movie stars?), or Jules de la Vergne in New Orleans, or Ed Kosky in Yonkers. N. Y.? Don't send all your news into "Life" magazine; save some of it for the column. 
My own little contribution this month concerns Paul Host. Faul was in a critical condition in a sanatorium in suburban Hinsdale. HI., with in­juries suffered in an automobile-ta:dcab collision on Dec. 26, which killed his father. Eugene P. Host. Paul, who is assistant manager of a Chi­cago department store, suffered internal injuries. Latest reports are that he is recovering as fast as conid be expected. 
1934 
Robert M. Cahill. Athletic Association, Notre Dame, Ind. 
With apologies for its tardy appearance, may we present Hike Tackley's interesting letter of Sept. 20. Dear ^m: 
"... . I am connected with the 31st (Dixie) Division Press Section and am stationed with the 106th Quartermaster Regiment of that Division. I edit the Rejpmental weekly newspaper, "The Journal." which I founded since entering the ser­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
vice. I also am director of public relations for the 106th Q. M. and assistant to the pubUdty officer. Major Frank V. Barchard. 
"I si>end all my time doing my favorite type of work — newspaper writing and since I have been here in Louisiana for the past nine weeks on extended maneuvers, I have gained much ex­perience along military lines. 
"Jfrfinny Baldwin, '33. ex-basketball star, is also with this reigiment. He is connected with the 31st Division Supply Section and is doing a fine job. Johnny and I have si>ent some pleasant hours reminiscing about Notre Dame, its life, and the many fellows we both knew. 
"The 28-year-old law, recently passed, will allow Baldwin to seek his release as soon as we return to our base carap. Camp Blanding, Fla., bat I will not be able to apply for a discharge as I reached my 28th birthday after I was inducted in­to the service. We were both inducted early in March, 1941. 
"I have been given the opportunity to attend an officer's candidate school and exi)ect' to leave Camp Blanding about Jan. 1. There will be no openings in the type of school I would like to attend until that time..; ." 
Bcmie Witucki. South Bend Washington High school football coach, was described as one of the greatest high school coaches in the United States' by Frank Leahy and Edward McKcevcr, both guest speakers at a December banquet honoring AVitucki and his team, champions of the eastern section of the Northern Indiana High School Conference. 
1935 Franklyn C. Hochreiler, 340 Rowdak Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 
From Hcch; 
We must apologize for tlie lack of a colamn in the December issue of our fair Tag. It seems tliat your correspondent got his copy in too late for "deadline" and the good editor had extended a "late courtesy" for the last time. So, vre can only hope that he has held it over and -will attach it to u-hat we are sending along this time. 
One letter, a postal card, a birth, a business change and several Christmas cards comprise the basis for this copy. 
Mrs. Scribe and your gossip dealer want to thank the following for their seasons's greetings: AI Ravarino, Tom Proctor and the Mrs., ClurBe Maher, Vince Gorman. Lake Frank KeUy and Mary, Art and Virginia Conrad, Hitdi Salch, Harry Becker et al.. Mart Handele and Cliff Dndley. 
Mart Hendele said that he is on a leave of absence to finish three semesters of law. Hart at that ^\'riting was deferred from the Army until next June, but he was not making extensive plans. 
Cliff Welsh and his wife are the proud parents of a daughter. Mary Louise arrived with the Jap­anese attack, seeing first light of day Dec. S and weighing in at eight pounds, 11 ^ ounces. Con­gratulations ! 
MacDougald, Troutman and Arkwright of At­lanta, Ga. "have the pleasure of announcing that Mr. William H. Sdiroder has become a member of our firm" effective Jan. 1. It's swell. Bill! 
The card was from a silent partner of this *35 association—Ray Shea. Ray wrote from Fort Rodman in New Bedford, Mass., where he is a private. We quote: 
"Shortly after returning from the Carolinas and before our furloughs came through, my outfit was moved out to aid the C. A. on coastal defense. 
Never eipaeled to he walldnx a daertid baadi on New Tear's Day. bat thafs jo t i>ha» t foDDd mjadf. We are hiriAns oatpoata oa'flia north east war theatre frontier. 
•1 imdentand that Jfanar McGralh has a cnmmimnog in the Karinea but his post ia-a militarr aeeiet. Fiaak Ifaifhr is stin at Caiv Edward's with F Co., 104th Int. 
"Ed O'Haia. Fiaalt Maxwd. and Bak Carter are doins well at thdr req^eetive adools." 
The letter? Why it came from the ole standhr —Frank Halakaa. Ftcank wrote: 
"Med Rowan stopped at oar apartment after the Navy same, and told ns that he had gone, to the Bame with Bay Mrfcili who is dmnz very well at JahoB Hopkins, engaged in some vexy spedal research work in whidi the govemment has an interest. Unless I am mistakm he aaid that Fran ScUeatcr is now at the Leahy Glinie in Boston... I see Ned in Wilkes-Barre every once in a while, and he seems to be enjoying his work with the N. Y. A. in that ^strict. 
"While in Galesbnrg I sawJakn Psgae, and we had a good ses^on. He has two youngsters now, lives in Chicago, and works for National Guh Register. He said that Jack Piendergait was in Chicago at that time. Both of the other Galednrg­ers from our class. Graves and HaDberg, are now in the Army. Graves says he can see where his master's degree is being vexy helpful—he was driving a truck at the time. 
"We spent a few days in Chicago, and I called Frank Leenard. bnt he was in California with his bicycle badness, whidb I tmderstand is floar­ishing. Joe CoDiBS; ex. '35, told me that he sees Frank quite often when he is in Chi. Joe is in the ­automobile sales basiness. 
"Bin Ryan and his charming spouse, Eloaise; extended the hospital!^ of their .home in Sooth Bend to the Holahana^ and we had a fine time. . Ryan, as you know, has done vexy well witib Associates Investments. We spent some time at the office, and, to one not familiar with pandi card accounting, it appeared that he has made seme very extensive installations. ¥^ m other sources I understand that Bill has done eonsider­aable pioneering in this field. He was jtist econ­pleting a swell new bungalow, and I suppose that he has moved in before this time. 
"Ryan told me that his brother, Jaiui. is now with National Cash Register in Chicago, and that Jfaa Haiailtaa is an officer and I believe a ffireet­or, in the Donmore Electric Co., Racine, Wis. I heard from PUI Jaeaba the other day. He is still with the Guaranty Bank in Alexandria, La., and expects to be married this month (January). Ha said .that CaaiOe Gravel is doing well as an attorney." 
Frank wrote a P.S. to his letter to the effect that he had just heard from PUI Jaeaba and that he joined a commerdal insurance agency in the home town the first of the year. Phil was mar­ried this morning (Jan. 15). 
Our very best to yoa two Jaeaba and a lot of luck on the new job Phil! 
To Frank—theie is nothing to say except "thanks a million"! 
- FOR DECEMBER (Ddaycd) 

Bab gfc—fc.- and the Mrs. sent along an an­nooneement of a "ICgfalidit in the StoA Itarket." On Nov. U, Ava Karia weired in at S poonda 9 ounces. Bob and his wife are living in BaffUoi 
N. T. now at 2255 Delaware Ave. Cbngratnlatioas! 
Then we xeeeli>cd a note bom Jae CiadMi'ap n Rensselaer. N. T. who asks that we annoonee 
the birth of thdr son, William Bernard, in 
Albany, N. Y. July 30. Again, Congratulations! 
Siff Slaidca enclosed recently a copy of the 
"New York Alumnus" a sheet published by the 
Notre Dame Club of New York City—an inter­
esting four-page job that comes out monthly. On 
the back page is a Classified Business and Pro­
fessional Directory, and we noticed two of our 
boys mentioned there; under accountants was Jim 
MacDevitt, who is with Owen Peterson and Co., 
101 Park Ave. Then among the long list of law­
yers we found Jim Sheils who is in business for 
himself at 70 Pine St. in the "big town." 
A surprise came in the mail late in October—a letter with the heading Pvt. Joseph C. Dudley, finance department, Sheppard Field, Air Corps Technical School, Wicbita Falls, Tex. Because we have been shouting for letters of this type, and because ClifiTs is the first, we are going to quote him at length. 
"The draft got me early in July, and after a week at Fort Thomas, Ky., they sent me to Lowry Field, Colo. There I was placed in the 3Ilth School Squadron which was just being organized for the purpose of coming here as part of the permanent personnel. My stay in Denver amounted to a wonderful three week's vacation, but I might add that I have more than made up for the privileges there since my arrival here 
"My request to be placed in the finance depart­
ment was granted about the middle of September, 
so now I help dish out some of that dough that 
you taA-payers pay in. But to get to the fragments. 
"At the Cathedral in Dallas. Oct 12, I ran into Frank Weinnunn now 2nd Lt., A. C, located at Goodfellow Keld, San Angelo, Tex. "We spent the day and night at the Dallas Fair, and later he drove me over to Fort Worth to catch my ride back to Wichita Falls. FVank likes the Army and thinks that he might make a career of it. At present he is teaching there. 
'"nie Sh^pard Held Catholic chaplain. Father Udephimse C. Bmediler, spent some time at Notre Dame, and I have run into two other Notre Damers—^Ed l^rray, ex. '41, and Bob McGowan, ex. '42. 
"I might add that I missed the 2S-age limit exemption by one month to the day! 
Thanks, Cliff, send us more such, with addresses, etc 
Hie last piece of news comes from a silent partner—Clande Toardc Claude is living with his -wife (of 18 months) and their six-months old son in lUver^de, HI., at 260 Fairbanks Rd. 

For the past six years. Claude writes, he has been working for his dad as vice-president in diarge of production, llieir firm is at present actively engaged in the national defense pro­gram as they turn out carburetor parts for air­plane motors. The Toureks are living in the suburb of Riverside, having just purchased a home. 
Claude sent along a note about Frank Leonard who is -with Arnold Schwinn and Co. manufac­turers of bicycles. IVank is married and is the father of a little girl. Among the others in the marital swim are: Jade Hor]ey who has a boy; Bemie O'Brien^ with a girl; and Ed Simpson, also with a daughter. 
We are passing along your request for in­formation alxmt John Honahan and Joe "Glenn" Norton, (^aude. We do not know if they are professional sawbones or not. Thanks a million for your letter. 
Jolin "Gunner" HcGratfa called us the other evening on his return to Sedalia from the South-em Gal. game. He mentioned seeing John Clark at the game but that was' all. 
 Moran, 61 E. 95th St, Apt 2, 
New York City. 
1936 John 
From John Horan: 
Your class secretary was called to active duty as an ensign in the XT. S. Navy when Pearl Harbor was attacked and consequently has had to rely solely on letters from you readers. Hie letters have been too few and too far between. 
Additions to the list of *36ers who are now in the Navy: Sherb Herrick. who is stationed in New York, and Bill Qoirke, who formerly was on duty here in New York. We have only one addi­tion to the list of Army personnel: Phil QailEe was drafted shortly after the Army game (no pun intended) and at last report was stationed at Carop Lee, Va. We are sending out an urgent plea for letters from all of you, and particularly from you boys in the Services. You can readi your secretary at his old address as all mail will be forwarded if necessary. 
Many thanks to those who remembered us with CHiristmas cards. Among the news items included were notes from Charlie Nevils, 2621 Whittaer, Louisville, Ky. and Dr. Ken Laws, who wrote that he expected shortly to be called back to service with the TJ. S- Army. Charlie smd that he is still single, has put on a bit of weight and is now working for the Franklin Security Co. in his home town, after a siege of ill health. 
Nick Tancredi, the pride of Mechanicsville, 

N. Y. wrote that he went into coaching with Dan Cnnha, '35, at Vincentian Institute, Albany after graduation. The Cunha-Tancredi protegees won 31 games in a row and the Eastern States basket­ball championship. Jim Engel, now on the N. D. team, is a product of Vincentian. 
After three years of coaching, Nick went into business with his father and judging by the fact that this bu^ness includes running a large mark­et, a gas station and a coal business, it would seem that Mechanicsville will shortly elect Nick its leading citizen. Ed Kennedy, Dan Cunha and Nick played a triangular meet at the altar rail, with the latter standing up for both Ed and Dan, and they returning the compliment the following year, with Dan as best man when Nick married Mildred Ballaard of Cohoes, N. Y. Ed is now working in N. Y, C, while Dan is coach­ing at Siena College, Albany, and rolling up some nice records. 
Nick also notes that Ed SuDiran is now mar­ried and practicing law in Saratoga, N. Y. The Tancredi half of that famoxis wrestling duo of Oinner and Tancredi would like to hear &om Bill Smith, the old footballer, and Yakima Beagan. as well as the tobacco-rfiewing Daley twins from LaPorte. 
Also had a note from Bill Ctettsacker, 720 GetHe Ave., Sheboygan, Wis. who wrote that his former roommate. Dick Schmidt, is now the proud papa of Peter Schmidt, and that the other third of that triple in 428 Walsh, Kay Herrly, was on hand for the Southern Cal game. Bill reported that, if his draft board has its way, he will soon be passing up fiie insurance business for an Army uniform. 
Art Hnbcr dropped a line from 2242 Drex Ave., Norwood. O., where he is employed as an acconnt> ant at the Chevrolet assembly plant. Art reported that after attending (General Motors Tech at Flint, Mich, for some post-graduate study; he was assigned to his present job. In August 1940 he married Viv, the girl whose picture the Mor­rissey sob tenants used to admire on the Hnber desk. Congratulations to you both and to Bab Sallivan, the other occupant of that double, "who became a proud fother just about reunion time. Sully is now working in Chicago, after spending a couple of years in Arizona for a sinus condi­tion. Art would like to hear from Don Draper, Kws and a few more of the crowd from the Horrissey sub. 
Larry Falkovic dropped us a note to say that the deer hunting up in Johnsown, N. Y. was fine and to come up for a whirl at the sport. Thanks, Larry, but we can't just now. Larry, who is with the Railway Ibcpress in Johnstown, reports that he has heard from George Ball who is in the Army and is stationed at Fort Eustis, Va. 
And that about winds up the doings for this month except to add that Paul Kraose who offi­ciates at many Suffolk County (N.Y.) high school grid games, became a proud father recently. Many thanks to Private Joe Bandaridi, Battery K 67th Coast Artillery, A.A., Ft. Bragg, N. C. for his contribution of a dollar toward the Perpetual Mass Fund of the Class of 1936. Those of you who have been putting off making your contribu­tion are asked to send it in as soon as possible. 
Joe Barber, who is practicing law in Erie, Pa., wrote recently in connection with his application for a commission with the U. S. Naval Reserve. 
 Foley, 910 Hawthorne Road. 1937 Paul 
Grosse Polnte, BCdi. 
From Paul Fcdey: 
Now it's here—1942—^Notre Dame is 100 years old, our class has finished the first five-line stanza as alumni and the world has gotten its head caught in the pillory again. 
We have just finished a complete cycle, with the nimble fingered aid of a brunette secretary, we have written to each and every member of the '37 crop, llie answers have come back in goodly number, the individual stories have been interests ing and optimistic—at least the soggy dough of humanity if leavened with about 500 grains of salt. 
So many letters are stadced in front of us right now that we are tempted to save some for a sidmpier month—in fact we are going to do just that. So if you have written recently and your facts appear not in this particular screed watch and wait—they will turn up in a future 
Going back to the beginning—two months before Pearl Harbor — we heard from Jmtk. Frawley, Birmingham (Ala.) district manager for Greyvan lines, the moving van division of Greyhound. Jad^s dulses, to quote him are: "To make people dissatisfied with living conditions here so that I can get the contract to move them elsewhere where they will be more dissatisfied and then move them back." So goes the nation. After graduation Jack spent one frigid interlude with Chevrolet in Bay City. Mich. 
Alarming among a midst of genuine bills was a "Delivery Recdpt" headed "Stork Brands. Inc." and announdng the safe arrival of a consignment to Mr. and Mrs. J. Paul Sheedy in Buffalo. The package arrived Oct 8 and proved to be a 9% pound son named (later, of course) James Brian Sheedy. J. P. is still holding forth at Standard Brands (we hope). 
Next into line -was Bill Hnlrenan of whom we've had word from time to time from other less direct sources. Bill was still in the insurance bndness last November but may be -with Bob Hart in the Aleutian Islands by now. Bill was holding forth in Stratford, 0)nn., 'which he de­scribed as a "boom town." 
Aceording to Bill's records, Jmtk. Bafar became the doting father of a daughter bom Oct. 7. Jack is said to be boundinK onward and upward in retail merchandising. 

Right at this point let's stop to get this thing straight—we're going to use the present tense on these hoys although the past tense might Be more accurate—after all we don't know where they are or what they're doing since Dec 7, the best we can do is stick to the "he is,** "they are" tech­nique until we get some later communiques. So back to our present tense. 
Jack Broderick is with a steel company in Phil­adelphia, after brief stops in Boston and New York with the same firm. 
Speaking of Fliiladelphia, were roused from a typical Sunday afternoon lethargy recently by the jangling telephone, under shrewd questioning we discovered at the other end of the line a char­acter describing himself as "Bill" Davis. It was three "how-are-ya*s" later that it dawned on us 
•we were talking, but direct, to Delancey Davis in Philadelphia! It seemed like a good idea at the time, opined "Bill," so he called us. Of course, the real answer is Davis' ambition cannot yet com­prehend the task of writing—or perhaps he was just dumping some excess profits before March 
15. In any event it was good to hear his voice—if we had been forewarned our end of the conversa­tion would, we are sure, have been more sprightly. Delancey is still -with a foundry and casting outfit operating near Philly- He tells us Jack Byrne, whom we reported sulking in Bryn Mawr, is in fact no longer there, nor is he any longer the "Snuggy King.** According to Davis, Jack is now with the duPonts in Wilmington grinding out some war work. Just the spot for a history major. 
Nick Lanese is foreman for a defense housing project in Bridgeport, Conn. He is also the father of two children. 
In the ranks of the M. D.'s is Mike Scully who's interning at Brooklyn and spending his spare time with Molrenan. 
On the quietly dignified letterhead of Bendix Aviation Corporation, in South Bend we get a nice long letter from John Brassell—and neatly typed too. We get a particular boot out of one little slip of the key-board: "Well! As to the news. I was married in the Log Chapel on June 4, 1948. I have one son bom February 5, 1940. Went to work for South Bend Bait Company." We'd call that real bait. But then, we realize John is busy keeping 'em flying so will excuse the typographical manipulation of dates. 
John is now in the aircraft carburetor sales de­partment and has been since April, 1940. I can't think of a smoother sales job right now. 
Larry Danbom. says Brassell. is also living in South Bend, and is working for Standard Oil. Nearby in Indianapolis is Bob Bowers, who is working with his father. Bowers has two children, gender unknown to us. 
Brassell says things are going swimmingly in the Bend, with such stellar attractions of a winter evening as a night with the Jcrrj- Clacys family, etc. In fact Brassell sounds very satisfied with the world, for which we are glad. 
From right around the corner here in Detroit comes word from Dick Flood who is interning in Harper Hospital. He writes in a "five-of-us" vein about Art Hoffman. Bill Sharpe, Larry Burnett, John Campbell and our man Flood. The quintet matriculated at Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia and four were graduated in '41. Bill Sharpe had to withdraw because of illness. Tlie remaining four are interning: Flood in De­troit, Hoffman at S t Joseph Hospital in Fort Wayne; Boniett at New (Sty Hospital in Newark, 
N. J.; on Campbell correspondent Flood is not sure but promises an early check-up. All four of the lads received first lieutenant commis^ons in the Army last June. When he wrote Flood said it looked as though they would see active service next July—but that was before we started a slap the Jap campaign. Perhaps all four are in mii­form by now. 
Another of the lads is also interning here in Detroit; he's Bill Bailey who's at Mount Carmel Hospital. 
Slightly dyspeptic in tone was the opening par­agraph of a letter from the usually sunny J M Dmecker—^he opines that it was practically a diplomatic incident to send a form letter to a fellow with whom we once lived. Which is all too true—^but on sober thought we can hardly expect a secretary in reading a list of names to spot those with whom we have lived in a short but somewhat checkered career. We apolo^ze Joe and will write over the sigilium persona very shortly. 
Joe is still selling for Union Carbide and is stationed in Evansville, Ind. from which point he roams through south^vestem Indiana and western Kentucky. 
No further personal notes are included in the Drueckcr missive but he reports that Loais Ala-man visited Indiana twice last summer. Druecker in Philly and New York saw Jock Conlon and others. He regrets missing Jess Hawley in Wash­ington. 
Now in the armed forces is .Bill Graham* who wrote us just before he caught the brass ring. Bill has had an ambulant career since graduation, wandering all over the country only to settle down to the hardware business and an adminis­trative job with Works Progress Administration which progressed quite naturally into khaki. Bill was engaged last June 21 to Miss Jane Johnston. of Clarion, Fa. 
Of his brother Charles, Bill informs us he is living in Bridgeton, N. J. and working for Oil Well Supply Company, a subsidiary of U. 9. Steel —or did we tell you all this in the last issue? 
Frank (Tuck) Reidy has been working almost since graduation for an oil company in 1\ilsa. Okla.. whose business recently sent him on a transfer to some spot in Texas. 
Quaking slightly at an envelope chastely labeled "Treasury Department, Internal Revenue Service." we were pleasantly surprised to find in it a friendly letter from Frank Danghton, who sajrs it's been nearly two years since he's even seen a classmate! O tempora. o mores! 
Frank, after two years of work as a deputy col­lector of internal revenue was advanced to a zone deputy and is presently grinding away at that chore. He covers six counties in southern Iowa. working out of Creston. la. When he wrote, Frank said he had charge of 85 Federal Taxes—^by now that total is probably about 103 with changes ex­pected hourly. On July 5, (appropriately the day after Independence Day) Frank was married to Miss Margaret Ristau in Sacred Heart Cathedral. Davenport, la. Their home address is 204 North Summer Ave., Creston. la. 
"Somewhere in the Pacific" was the last word we have of Tex Dnrkin. The word came from his father who said Tex is an ensign in the II. S. Naval Air Service operating out of San Diego. 
In Woodcliff. N. J. tracking down a skin ail­ment which had him laid low we got word from 
W. J. Comber. Bill was puzzled and not a little worried by an attack of illness which caught up with him just after he had passed an Army phyri­cal exam. When he wrote us. Bill was resigned to a series of some 200 skin tests. He had taken to his bed and was in definitely bad shape. Prior to his illness Bill had worked for T.»ngiiHii stcd 
Corporation in Ijoag Island City, New York C!tr, 
and Pittsburgh. 
A few parmgraphs up we mentioned Lanr Du ­bmn is back in South Bend. Larry hi»«Tf1f pots it this way: "Fm back 'home' in Sooth Beid! And it's marveknis." Be that, as it may—^Larry is working for Standard Oil in a sales capadty and says he hears oceaaonally from Steve BGIler. who was recently married and from Vic WojdhovAi, who is still coaching in Kingsford, Mich. 
We were very happy to hear from Joe '. and. to learn that he has been at Haryknoll Sem­inary since his graduation with us. Joe expects to be ordained in June, 1944. He is prqianng, of conrseb for nu^cmary work. He tells us most of the Blaryknt^ missionary band is in China and Japan. We ht^ie by 1944 Joe and his fellow mis­sionaries will find those places again open to the apostles of peace. 
J«hn Walladh, we learn frcHn Joe, is married, living in Brooklyn and working for a steamship' company. 
We had quite a time catching up with T^w* Blatia Bayot. Our letter went to the Philippines, back to New York and finally caught Tone* in San Francisco to whidi port he had been called . by the De La Bama Steamship Ctmipany for whom he works. Tone' worked briefly for DHHU news­papers in Manila and then landed a spot with the steamship ccmipany—and promptly embarked on a tour of all the foreign oCHces for purposes of training and observation! When he wrote us. Tone' had visited Shanghai, Cheefoo. Tientsin, Hong Kong. Los Angeles. New York, several North Atlantic ports and San Francisco. Some­where on route in the United States he married a girl of Spanish descent. Of course, our note from. Tone* was prior to the siege, attack and fall of Manila. We hope the news of bis fanuly was all good—^we hoipe that he was still in Frisco when the bombs began to play. 
More calm and settled has been the career of Paal Barker who writes from Rochester. N. Y. Paul has been working since graduation for the Gleason Works as an engineer. He is married and apparently at peace with the world. Paul says the life of a football manager still jerks at him on cold crisp Autunm afternoons. He reports Don SdMmfietti is active around Rochester and when last seen was dancing gayly in a local hostelry— the life of the socially resplendent! 
Thus we reach the half-way mark on that stack of letters— 30 in the pile, 15 used and 15 cacKed away in a hollow tree where the Japs won't find them—proof against the day when nobody writes and there's a deadline to be met. 
In November, just a day too late for inclusion in our December issue, a letter from Bofc Grocan came into the office. Here it is, in part: "Recently I received an appointment as a flying cadet in the Army Air Corps, so I was discharged from the regular Army in favor of the air corps. I am now taking early training here at Maxwdl field, preparatory to advanced training at an­other field, Vm still single by neccessity, not choice. 
"The Air Corps is full of college men, but I believe I'm the only Notre Damer in the present group here of 1.200 men. I want to go on record as having the firm intention to make the fifth reunion of the Class of '37 next June, m!l­itary affairs notwithstanding." . 
John HcKcnna is teadung physical education at Our Lady of the Valley Hii^ School in Orange, N. J. 
JadE P. Ley, ex. 37, is now on his way to England as a member of the Civilian Tedmleal Corps. Jack was required to pass a stifiE technical examination and a thorough physical examination. His mail should be addressed care of the Civilian Technical Corps, 1415 Pine Avenue West, Mon­treal, P. Q., Canada. 
1938 Harold A. Williams, 308 East Lake Ave., Baltimore, Md. 
From Ha] Williams: 
While I was standing: in the New York rain and the Yankee Stadium mud in front of the deserted Notre Dame bench after the Army-Notre Dame game of Nov. 1, 1941, two pretty and very charming young ladies asked me to announce their engagements in the '38 notes of the "Alumnus"—right at the top of the column because it was so important and because they had always been faithful readers of the '38 class notes. 
And so I hereby chronicle that the engagement of Miss Marion Lauer, of Brooklyn, to Eugene F-Vaalett, has been announced, as has that of Miss Rosamund Murphy to Corp. John Kellcy. Heart­iest congratulations to the classmates, and the very best of luck to the girls. 
Gene, in a recent note, also informed me that the engagement of Miss Margaret Doran and Jack Firth was announced Nov. 16, 1941. The note was short because the engagement was announced while Gene was writing it and he had to adjourn to the celebration. 
And now, without further ado, the annual com­munique from our crackerjack Chicago corre­spondent, Ed Brennan: 
"Always a good leadofF man in these dispatches is dapper John Boarke who, behind Ms impressive glass-topped desk, supplies the necessary diplom­acy to Commonwealth Edison's personnel depart­ment. Married over a year and a half, John makes his home in Evanston.... Dick Carrigan continues to make his daily safari to the home of Carnegie Illinois Steel's gigantic empire where as chief engineer of the rolling mill he assumes the role of an indispensable production soldier.... 
"TWA's employee baby fund suffered further exploitation when, on Aug. 20, John Thomas ceased bitang his fingernails to welcome his eight-pound son, David Phillip. The punctual Chicago d^artures of Transcontinental & Western's air­liners are due in no small part to John's profi­ciency -as control supervisor for the traffic depart­ment* .. . Doing his utmost to see that United fleet of Mainliners continue to span the continent is John Buckley who recently was added to the ticket reservation department of that company here. 
"Boasting that he never was one to do things in a small way. Bill Armel is resting easier follow­ing his -wife's present of twin daughters on Dec 
 For Bill this means an all out sales effort at Nubian Paint and Varnish where he begins his fourth year Buttons are popping off the vest of Len Skofflnnd these days for, in addition to his four-months old son, is his new house, just built, in suburban Western Springs, III. Len recentiy left the accounting firm of Haskins & Sells to join the sales stalF of Scully-Jones, makers of tools and jigs. 
"Easter Monday, 1941 was the date and St. ZiOuis the place of Frank O'I'anghlin's marriage to Marie Griffin of that city, formerly of St. Mary's. Big as ever, Frank already has com­pleted his second year on the Chicago sales force of Cbnsolidated Coal Company. The Chicago Mail Order Ccnnpany soon will be forced to find a new copjrwriter to replace Gregg Kelly. While Gregg's military intentions to date remain unde­termined it's a certainty his physique will be molded into the armed forces.... A twisted car­tilege in his right knee sust^ned in a softbsll game while dude ranching last summer in Wyo­ming's scenic Big Horn Mountains was tiie diief reason for Jack Hughes' 1-8 classification in early September. The knee has mended satisfactorily and the waning weeks of Jack's civilian life will be spent like his past three years in the circula­tion department of the Chicago 'IVibune'... Jackie Francis, Jr., is over a year and four months (4d while papa John becomes more adept at his post of advertising manager for the Berry Asphalt Company. Mr. and Mrs. Francis and son. make their home on the far south side. 
"Feeding an additional mouth is no task for Jack Sexton who ncars his fourth year as a buyer in the canned goods department of John Sexton & Co., wholesale food company. A son. 
—Official U. S. Navy Photo. 
John P. Fox, '38, of BufiFalo. N. T., was re­cently awarded Ms Kavy wings and a conunUdm as Ensign in the Naval Reserve after snccc—fwily completinjT a training course at flie Karal Air Station in Jacksonville, Fla. 
Patrick, vfas bom to Mr. and Mrs. Sexton last March.... By his o^vn admission Don SMitfc's enlistment last March as a fijang cadet in the Naval Air Corps was one of the wisest moves he ever made. Formerly vnth Sears, Koebuck and Company at Battie Creek, Mich., Don jumped the gun on the Selective Serwcc Act. A recent letter from him bearing the dateline of Pensacola re­veals that all is well. 
" *A mid-October business trip took me, amons other places, to Fort Worth, Tex., where I was soundly convinced the world is really the small place which' often we say it is. Prepared for a lonely week-end and then—I bumped into Private Bill Lusaen, stationed at nearby Camp Wolters, who was in town on a short furlough.... Under normal circumstances I would begin my third year on the advertising staff of "Aero Digest." Eyes and physical condition permitting, however, I'll be more than willing to cast my lot with the Naval Air Corps'." 
This month we are honored with commtmica­tions from three classmates who are writing for the first time. 
First, LoQ Da Pra who writes: "At long last I I graduated (or commenced) law in '40, -was ad­mitted on Sept. 10, 1940, and opened up a law of­fice in East Chicago at 3624 Main Street. S^t. 24, 1940. The doggone place burned down on Nov. 12, and so I moved to 3701 Hu n Street. I practiced in East Chicago until March 17, 1941 and then re­ported to work as an attorney with the Federal Power Commission in Washington. Pve been there ever since... . 
"In June I stopped in Philadelphia to see GOB Criso, but it was such a hot week-end that Gus had escaped to the Jersey shore. And nary a word did I hear from him until a letter was forwarded to me at Marinette. Wis., recently in which he politely asked me to be his guest at the Army game. And I was stuck up in Wisconsin, unable to see that game, the Navy smoker, or the Navy game. Arid when I returned to East Chicago there were no tickets for the N. U. or U. S. C. game. What's the use of being an alumnus?.... My address in Washington is 315 New Jersey Ave., S.E., where I live with one F. J. Walsh of Harvard. My roomie in 56 Sorin. Jack Deane, is doing very well in the F.BJ. — " 
And this from another lawyer. Charlie Osborn: "Seattle blackouts having made a recluse out of me, I am now forced to take up letter writing... After three years at Harvard Law School I was graduated last June along with John Harrin, IV, T«im Mnlligan, Art Mnlbem, Jim Hnlhem, Jf>hn Sdiemmer, John Roach, and Tom Blaber. As to 
•what happened to the above named after tiiat, they will have to report for themselves. Thinking that the Pacific Coast was about as far away from Adolph as I could take my peaceful dis­position. I headed for Seattle and soon after began the exciting life of a law cleric Along with Fred Cn^Iard, from Wenatchce. I got through the Washington bar exams last September. The army decided that I would set a bad example for the other men and would have none of me so I appear to be situated in this vicinity for some time to come. If any of the lads are out in this vicinity as a guest of TIncle Sam or on their own I can be found at 603 Central Building." 
Charlie is a member of the firm of Bogle, Bogle and Gates and if any of you fellows, in far off places, want to cable him the cable address is "Bogle Seattie." 
And now a letter from Bill Robinaon, the red­headed "New Yorker" addict from Detroit. Writ­ing on the stationery of Film Truck Service, Inc., Bill says: '"Diings have come to a pretty pass when a guy's father has to tell him to keep up his correspondence. But that's just what hap­pened. My dad is home, sick. Today he was thumbing through the 'Alumnus' and saw your name, our class column, and no news from Detroit. He immediately grabbed the phone, called me at my office and said, 'Why don't you write Hal Winiams and tell him that you're still alive?' It seemed like a very fine idea, and overcoming my shame, I am going to do as he advised. 
"Much, much water has run under the bridge since I saw you last and I am now a husband— the girl is one Betty Ann Lang, the original little girl across the street. And—I am the father of a six weeks old son. BilU Jr. I am hoping this makes you feel as old as it does my other friends. 
"The Detroit boys—as the rest of the boys— are badly scattered by national defense. Tom Kav­amwgh is a county auditor and a proud papa of a son—^Hayes. Ted Trcfxcr married into quite a family of golfers, but it won't do him any good— his hook is incurable. Ed Brower is in town keep­ing Fisher Body's books. The wife and I went to 
N. D.for the Illinois game and while there saw Bah Tharinver. He's married too. This Saturday we are going to Evanston for the Northwestern game. Then we are hibernating for the winter. This is a short note, but it is an ice breaker. Get in the game and bring your ice pick. If you do m USl yoo about Boh Hauler in the Tiext installment...." 

Oettine Robinson to write a letter is my great, 'est feat as class secretary. 
And now from an old correspondent, Tom Shieb, who writes that he received a temporary deferment last July shortly after his soioum in the Kew Bochelle hospital. He comes up for rc-examination in June. He goes on to say that he has severed his connection -with the New York "Jonmal'American** and, since Aug;. 15, has been working for Glenn Miller's orchestra. He says, "At present all my time is devoted to the Glenn Miller 'Sunset Serenade*, programs heard every Saturday from 5 to 6 EST over the Blue Network 
of the NBC (what a plug—Ed) Had a letter from Tom AtUnson this week (Dec. 3). He is now with the Sherman Paper Products Corpora­tion in Newton, Mass. Also saw Tom Qoinlan a few weeks ago in New Rochelle at the lona-Gcorgetown FVep football game " 
Thanks, Tom, Bill, Charlie, and Lou. let's hear from you again soon. 
Now a note from Jim Sullivan, a private in the you-know-what and stationed in of all places, dear old Baltimore. He says that he was moved here from some place in Georgia (I can't make out the writing) and is now serving as a telephone operator. The remainder of the note has to do with military secrets so—sssh. And then, from Birmingham, Ala., came a postal card from Joe Thomborg, who was the Clark Gable to so many of those dear old laundry gals in the dear old days. Says Joe, "My bosom buddy, 'Bub' Crowley, is a Lexington druggist while I am the same here. Both of- us are assistant managers with Walgreen's. Remember the Walgreen Drug Store Society of the Bend? 'Bub* and I have been to­gether off and on for three years and we will be together again as soon as we can arrange it. Do yott ever hear from Johnny Braddock or Denny Entannel? I would like to hear from them. How is Bad Sherwood? . . . Heard Nel Vogel is mar­ried and living in the Bend— ." 
And from Corp. J. Kenneth Veeneman, of the 
U. S. A., now stationed in San Diego, is the 
.wedding announcement to wit: "Mrs. Marie Organ announces the marriage of her daughter Marie Margaret to J. Kenneth Veeneman on Tuesday, the ninth of December at St. Lucy's Catholic Church, Chicago. Sudden changes in military orders advanced the date of ceremony originally planned." And this from Jersey City, "Walter J. Harris, Jr., of Jersey City, N. J., announced his engagement to Florence V. McDermott. Walter is now a flying cadet stationed at Max^vell Field, Montgomery, Ala." Spealdns of flying cadets, a pretty picture post card from San Antonio, Tex., informs us that Nick Lamberto, after having his job on the Chicago "Herald and Examiner" fold up when it ceased publication in 1939, and his job on the Sioux City, la. "Tribune" do likewise when it merged with a competition paper recently, is now a flying cadet at the Pilot Replacement Center, Squadron 3, Flight B, Kelly Field, Tex. A note from the old roommate, Sherwood, says that he bumped into Rass Hunt, who was on his wed­ding trip, outside the Pennsylvania Hotel after the Army game. 
The next letter goes a long way back—Nov. 10 —^but it will clear up a point in several persons' minds. It is from John Ckary. In his own hand­writing he says that he attended the Army game and was at the Penn Bar after the game. I know I saw him there and started over to talk to him. When I reached the bar he was gone and every­one I talked to, on their honor, said they had not seen him. Anyway, he did get to the.game, hitch­hiked up from North Carolina, met his wife, saw the game, had a drink at the bar, and then started back for North Carolina, Hieie's another classmate who likes to maintain the Army game tradition. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus: 
From South Bend is this anonymous contxiba­tion: "Lieut. James Lahey, of the United States Marine Corps, has been on active dutar tince last July and was stationed with - the Guard Company. at Quantico, Va., until recently when he was transferred to the U. S. Navy Yard at Philadd­phia. While at Quantico he was assistant to the football coach, acting as backfleld coach this past season." Jerry Kane, writing from Ijma. Pern,. scrawls on a Christmas card, "Just to wish yoa a Merry Christmas and to thank you for keeping me up to date on the boys. Am now 2 ^ years in Peru and was just made purchasing agent for Panagra in July. Will be home on foreign leave for two months in June and hope to see you and the boys in the New York or at the reunion at school. Had dinner with Bishop O*0ara here sev­eral weeks ago on his stop-over from Chile. We're very busy here trying to beat out the German-owned airlines and keep our own going. It looks like we are winning." The card is signed Katie, Jerry and Erin, 7 months old. Erin, isn't that a' fine name? Let's have some more like it! 
Christmas cards were received from. . . . Wini­fred, John and Scraps Bonriu who writes, " 'Scraps' is our wire-haired terrier, thought that 
- might need explaining. See Ed Mann and Ed Cronin occasionally. ScanneU is in the Army, and I'm 3-A so far." Eileen and Joim Belmer had a pretty card, John saying, ^T am now in my junior year in the tTniversity of Illinois Medical School; married South Bend girl, former Eileen Morfoot and am now living at 6600 North Ash­land, Chicago." The card from the Longon'a— signed Jean, Russ and Babs—said, "I am a cost accountant working for the Wright Aeronautical Corporation here in Cincinnati. Over a year and a half ago I took unto myself a wife and on Sept. 3, 1941 we were blessed with a $400 tax deduction.... Working at Wright's are quite a few N. D. boys: Henry Sdimidt. '37, Heik Gard­ner, '38, Bob Bisdiotr, '39, and Bart McHagk, '25. We organized a special train to see N. D. beat Norihwestern. In your column ask Bob Shea or Phil Kirch to drop a line, please." Rugs' address is 3524 Edwards road, Cincinnati, O. Seotty Bear-don writes, "I'll either write or come to see you." ... . Jack Bfahoney pens "Promise to write soon. Charies Monagiian is at the Aberdeen (Md.) Proving Grounds—drafted a month ago. I was best man at 'Powerhouse' Pete Slicdian^s wedding in September. I expect to attend the Christmas dance here in Cleveland and will see the boys who are still around. I am studying law at the John Marshall Law School here in Cleveland. Address: 1233 East 99th street, Cleveland." 
Ernie BCanrin writes, "Have changed my per­nianent address to the glamorous city of Holly­wood 6718 SunseL.," Jack Anton writes, "I'm not in the army yet but I don't know how long I'll be a civilian. Bill CliSbrd is at Fort Bliss, Tex. You might ask him to write to me through the 'Alumnus' as I wrote to him twice and have had no reply. He may have been trans­ferred. Suppose you know Frank Pruba is a proud papa. Am still trying to get in touch with Bnnny McCormick with no luck,.. maybe you can locate him...." and a card from Ckarlie Callahan, received several days after the holidays, which bore the Callahan, motto, "So what if I am a couple of days late?" 
And then there were Christmas cards from Ur. and Mrs. Ray LongstreUl (457 Adair Ave., Zanesville, O.), Annabelle and Bob McGrath (901 South Grove Ave., Oak Park, 111.), torn EUer. Nick Lamberto, Mary and Bob Cahill. EUen. Charles and Charles Braaius, Babe and Bad Sber­wood, Virginia and John Wafeta, Lou Da Pfa, Bill Woemer (from Pittsburgh), Geoise and Pat­tie Morris, Ed R. Haggar. Eddie Mattincly, Gene Vaslett. Mary and Jack Cleary. Jack Crawley, and a telegram from Don HiAey. 
In the B.Mtimore "Sun" on Dec. 7 the engage­
31 

ment of Mils XaiT FUIer Beadey, daniAitv at Mr. and Xra. Fisher J. Beaitar. of Momt Wadi­ington, BaUnore to Mr. Benarl V. Petama. am of Mr. and Mrs. P. C. ntawaa,-ct 'BatbiK­ton, Kana., was annoimeed. Ko date for tile ved­^ng. Pete is now livins in Baltimaee and araric­ing at the Gtenn I<. Martin Cbnpany. The'^ri is' a beanty. judging from her pietnre In the vver. 
Ibe other tugbt I met Gceise Kaaaaa, '41, and wife, who live only a few blocks from n y hooae. George is working at the Sparrows Feint plant of the Bethlehem ShipboildinK Company. And that* s about all except that on a recent .visit to Frederick, Md., I bumped into Jafk Ltbhi IT. 'SS (to go into the Naval Reserve as an ensign soon), and Balph WaAter, '39, both of Frederick. I was eonriderably surprised at seeing Ralph for I had reported bim (in the last issue of the "Ahumm^) as being in the Marine Corps and stationed in Puerto Rico. Lebherz informed me that I meant Bernard Daley, '40, of Westminster, Md. (which is close to Frederick). Apologies to Bemie and Ralph and—by all means—the Marine Coipa. 
And that's all. 
In ease anyone missed Arcfe Ward's eohmm for Dee. 27 in the Ciiieazo 'Tribune," may we tpaate with pride: "Ahnoat every one agrees that tiie 1941 Chicago Bears vrere the greatest team tbm National Football league has produced, and then seems to be the same unanimity of ^iidoai about the competency of Cbrfc Svecner as a fidd judge. He was the most eBiaent wuikuiau, college or pro, this department saw this sfaaon. If ElaMr LayAea can attract a few more offidab of Sweeney's caliber to the professional leame, he soon will have the best staff in footban." 
On Dee. 22, C I. Taace started work for the General Motors Corporation in Tsrrytown. N. T. Bad ghcf aud is also employed there. 
Rabeit Fenbatk who graduated from the Cornell Law School in 1941, and who immwffatdy following his graduation passed the New York State Bar Examinations is now assodated with the law firm of Moot, Spragne, Harey. and GuHck, in Buffalo, N. Y. 
Several letters from service men of 'S8 were necessarily left out of an earlier issue because of ^ lack of space. With apologies to all for thdr late appearance, we print thera now. Please' re-, member that the information in the letters b doubtless somewhat out-dated now. 
One was from Corporal WilBaaa PUi, Company D, Diird Signal Training Bn., Signal Corps B»> placement IVng. Center, Fort Monmouth, Bed Bank, N. J.: 
"Uncle Sam cau^t up with me April 10, took 
. me from the management of the Flint, Mid)., claim oince of the Allstate Insurance Company, dressed me in fatigue clothes, and set me down for a week of K. P. in Cunp Custer, Mich it was decided that I might make a &ir rafflB operator, so I was shipped here to Fort Mon* mouth. Not being particularly enthused with the constant dit-dit-dat-dit of a 'radio all day, I ap­plied for a transfer to administrative work after I was here for about a week, and, mu d to n y delight,' was asdgned to the Personnel OBiee. I received a quidc ratine and at present I hare charge of my company's persona] Interests, and have three asdstants to get the work done. 'Nat­uralUr, I would prefer civilian life, but I am well content with my lot in the Anny, and I am doing the kind of work I enjoy. 
"A hoard of olHeers dedded that I wa* qnaUlbd to attend 'OSieen Cknffidate Sdiool to gain a 
but as yet I am undecided whcthtr or not to make the diange. Yoa have my addteaii and if copies of the "Sdnlastie" find thdr war here, I wiU be very gratefuL 
Jmaies Francis McGnire was commissioned as Enagn in the U. S. Naval Reserve on Jan. 3, and appointed platoon sub-commander In the cadet re^ment. Jim specialized in flying the Navy's fast carrier planes during the advanced training stage at Corpus Christi, Tex. 
Stanley Partyka, on active duty in Iceland, sent in the following letters some month ago: 
"Greetings and salutations from America's far­thest oncost, Iceland..,. 
"I %vas called into active ser\'ice on Feb. 24, 1941. My first three months were spent at Basic School, Philadelphia Navy Yard, Philadelphia and Indiantown Gap, Pa. 
"Having completed the prescribed courses sat­isfactorily, I was sent to Parris Island, S.C. Here I was attached to the Second Battalion, First Regiment, and given the duty of battalion quar­termaster. Ibis, however, lasted only ten days. 
"On the tenth day, I was called into the regi­mental commander's office and given transfer orders to Charleston Na\'y Yard, Charleston. S. O. I, was at the Navy Yard two days when word came through ordering me to go aboard a troop ship. Fifteen days later on July 7, I found myself staring at a strange and uninviting island, Ice­land. The following day the Marines landed and the capital of Iceland was ours. 
"To the best of my knowledge, I am the only Notre Dame alumnus here. However, I have been told by an officer that he believes there is a Notre Dame alumnus in one of the other battal­ions. I shall check on this at the first oppor­tunity." 
And John Beer wrote away back last September, from Camp Robinson, Ark., while still on man­euvers : 
•*".... I enlisted in the National Guard last February and Avas inducted into the service on March 5, 1941. I arrived at Camp Forrest on March 20 and spent the first few- months with Co. "G" which hails from Joliet, Bl. In April, 1 entered the 33rd Divldon Stenographic School and spent three months learning typing and short­hand. 
"We left for maneuvers on Aug. 9 and my position at that time was stenographer for Lt. Col. Sherwood Dixon, '20. I operated in this capacity for a few weeks and then assumed the duties of field clerk and battalion reporter. "When Dixon left to attend a staff school at Fort Leaven­worth, I was placed in charge of the battalion message center.... 

"Aug. 6, I was appointed corporal and at the moment am working for a staff sergeancy. Haven't beard from any of the other members of Uncle Sam's great army. Received a card from Nick Lamberto who is in 1-A and apt to be called any minute. Bob Laogfalin of '38 is -^vith Hq. Det. 1st Battalion. Tad Harvey, formerly a member of "F" Co., is now a military policeman. Bob Mallen, '36, is with this detachment and no doubt will drop you a line " 
1939 
Vincent DeCoursey, 4540 Jarboe, Kan> sas City, Mo. 
From Vince DeCoursey; 

What will probably be about the worst, and certainly the most exciting, year within the mem­ory of ours, the last class to run through four college years while a so-called peace reigned throughout the world, has started with, horribly, a big bang. Running through the list of those in the military service in the "Alumnus" last issue v e were surprised to find that RoUie Martin, Hotte ToncUi, and Tom Foy were in the Philip­pines. We have no word of their whereabouts and no information as to their fate. Hie amaz­ingly large number of this class who are in the armed forces already reads like a roll call—and the list will undoubtedly increase. 
Christmas brought the usual number of cards, but a diminished number of letters and notes. Cards from Ed O'Conner, Hark Hitdidl. J«hB Cells (Army). Carl Frick, Frank Fitdi (Navy), Jim Tansey, Frank Cnnningham* Di ^ Anton, Louis DaPra, Joe Harrinirton, Jnlie TonsMare, Charies Nelson (Army). Fred Sisk. Frank Paries, Jim Gorman (more later), George Neamann (Ar­my), Tom Hogan, Mike Mongovcn, Hany Kaiser, Bob Hes^^ood and Tom Reardon. llianks very much—and lets hope there will be the* same and a lot more when the next Christmas rolls around. 
As Mr. Do(rfey wanted it this way. so shall it be. I mean the column—short and to the point. 
Too late to be included in last issue: that looked for letter from Dick O'Melia, with details of Oilie Helland's death. IHck says OIHe was the radio man in the backseat when the plane went into a spin—the pilot, a fellow named Hoffman, was also killed. That was to be the last hour in the air before OUie received his wings. 
But Dick also had other information. Binr Binkowski is an instructor at Pensacola. Joe Leising, ditto. Dan Sheedy graduated from IGami and was with the "Hornet" at last report. John Berteling, '38, is a cadet at Pensacola; Norfc Schickel, '40, is through Miami and probably with the fleet. Dick himself at the time of writing had about a month to go, and by this time has probably received his commission and is on active duty somewhere. 

Lonis Somers was a special investigator for the Household finance Co. till caught in the draft. At the time of writing he was at Camp Shelby. Miss., along with Tom Funk. '38. Louis is married (to Margaret Pilarski of South Bend) and has been thus since October last. 
Frank FitA was with the U.S.S. Prairie Queen in New York City when he wrote. He said he was to finish about Jan. 11 and then no telling where. 
Glancing through the paper in late November, after sending in the column, I was shocked to find an article saying that search bad been abandoned for a plane that had disappeared on a flight out of Blythe, Calif, on Nov. 12. The pilot was Lt. Lawrence Barrett, Jr., of Gary, Ind. And unless mi^nformed that is the same Larry Barrett who graduated with this 'class. We had a nice letter from him in the summer; he had been quite excited about receiving his com­mission in July and was planning to be married then. 
A note from Mr. J. J. Schriner to the effect that Tom is now Serg. Thos. J. Sdiriner at C^mp Grant, 111., in Cki. "C", 28th M.T.B. {incidentally along with my brother-in-law). 
Fred Sisk wrote that he would be in Kansas City on his way back to Michigan Law School and was as good as his word. But he only stayed a short while and had no news that can be re­membered, except that he hopes to stay away from the war till after graduation. And, inci­dentally he has a heart interest in Ann Arbor we would like to meet sometime. 
Chet Sadowski wrote a very nice letter. He was, in December, still flat on his back after two months, the result of a four-car accident on the highway—^bad brain concussion, hip fractured in six places, and still in a cast, expecting thoos^ to be on his feet by Christmas. We all certainly hope he was that, and by this time. is completely recovered. Chet had been building defense houses in the Detroit area, and had hopes of being able to continue to do so. We hope that he will write soon and report on his condition. And in the meantime we all wish him the best of luck. 
And from Jim Gorman, a nice long letter, a more pleasant surprise we have never had. Jim is the manager of the Majestic Theater in She­boysan. Wis. A year ago last August he married a Sheboygan girl, and now there is a Sheila Gorman, already destined for St. Mary's. 
A letter from Jim Tansey, who didn't quite make this section of the state of Missouri on his last swing around the K. of O. circuit. Jim hit the train through New York, Ohio, Indiana, Illi­nois, Missouri, Kentucky, West Virrfnia, and Pennsylvania. And in that trip talked to the following: BtO HcGnm in Chicago; Jack Griffin in St. Louis, working for a credit company and doing well in spite of a little extra weight; Bill Aheam in Akron, O.. married and conducting a successful florist shop; Bob Kvatsak is married, but Jim forgot to say what he was doing and where. 
In 0)lumbus, Bill HcGannon, '40. had been play­ing pro ball and had become very popular witb the &in5, so popular with one that she married him. 3ahn Gatowski in Pittsburgh has had a lot of tough luck, several operations on his knee, but at last recovering and planning on marriage in the near future. Stan Adamonis is in the accounting department of some steel firm in Ambridge. Jack Cole, in Indianapolis, was with the advertising department of the Indiana Bell Telephone Co., but expecting to be drafted. Frank Lsndc is married and living in Anderson, Ind. Jolin Hdlahon is a deputy sheriff and was to be married in December. "Shorty" Eberhart is with an accounting firm in Pittsburgh, Mickey Mc> Fartand and Jim Rocap are in the Army. 
There was more to Jim's fine letter and I'm sorry that we couldn't go Into more detail, but Mr. Dooley says no. Still I hope that Jim won't really wait "quite a while" before writing again —this column needs more correspondents just like him. 
From Ed O'Connor an admonition to "Remember the Maine." We really enjoy hearing from him and if there was such a thing as an honest ad­dress on his letters we'd write at the drop of a recapped tire. 
Charlie Nelson noted on his card that his life as a military man would commence simultane­ously with the new year, and promised a long-delayed letter—which is still delayed, but eagerly awaited. Red Neumann, in Camp Davis but now moved to Newport News, sent in a very well designed card he and a couple others got up. We promise to answer that nice letter of last summer before much more time passes. Mike Hongoven says that he is living at 7634 Phillips Ave. and is In the plumbing business in (^icago. He has a son ten months old and wants the "Alumnus" office to send him the Ave Press­room's pride and joy before the youngster is too old to enjoy it. 
And from Frank Conningham who, traditionally left US guessing, this time at his new name which went something like Brother Louis Bertcoul, O.F., from the Dominican House of Studies at River Forest, HI. Frank is in first philosophy, having taken ^mple vows last August. 
1V> cut this month's column breathlessly short, as per instructions, these happenings on the home front: Tom Reardon has a new boy; Jnlie ToBSBMire left for Philadelphia. 
Lots of luck and let's have more letters. 
Paal DMiovan is now in the third year class at the Cornell Law School and will be graduated in V&rcfa. FatU was married in June to Hiss Helen lionersan of Elmira, N. Y. 

Bob Voelker is teaching at St. Rita High school in Chicago, the largest Catholic high school in the Hid-W^t. having an enrollment of 1,385. Franos Ernst, '40, is also a member of the faculty. Bob also sends in the news that Ed Solon, ex. '39, of Dallas, is stationed at Jefferson Barracks, Mo. 
Frank fltcli, who was in training on the TJ. S. 
S. Prairie State nntil he received his ensign's commission in January, wrote that he had been ordered to report to the Canal Zone. 
Blatt Merkle, is now a second lieutenant in the Air Corps Reserve, having successfully com­pleted his advanced flight training at Luke Field, Phoenix, Ariz. 
From Jim Green, in the news office of the First Weather Squadron. Air Corps, McClelland Field, Calif., this letter, now unfortunately, somewhat aged: 
" I enlisted in the Army Air Corps as a private. Sept, 20, 1940. At present my grade is private first class, specialist fourth class, in the first Weather Squadron, A. C. If one were to be­come technical and pompous about it, you might say that I am a meteorologist with an Air Corps rating of journeyman weather observer — that's what the Air Corps records say anyway. 
"A month ago I was also appointed the editor of the squadron newspaper. It circulates among the enlisted men of the 1st Weather Sq. who are stationed all the way from Alaska to South America and at the various air corps stations in California. Nevada, Utah, Idaho, Oregon and Washington." 
1940 
Robert G. Sanford, 3934 N. Maryland Ave., Milwankee, Wis. 
From Bob Sanford: 
I got back to the campus for the Southern Cal game, and it seemed like a full class reunion. After that week-end I can hardly wait till our regularly scheduled reunion in 1945. 
To start the list: I saw Red Martin, and John Mack on Friday evening. Red had seen three of the games this year. Johnny is still worldng in South Bend. 
Friday evening most of the lawyers were all decked out to attend the Law Ball, the social event of the week-end. Chairman of the occasion was Chide Dnbriske. President of the I<aw Club, Ed Kelly, was a very busy man all week-end. Bob Sollivan and Al Mooney were moving aroimd all the time. Sully told me that he had seen only two games all year. He has been out scouting Northwestern every week. Henry Sdtrenfcer, like Sully, was an assistant freshman coach this year. Saw a few more of the boys in the law school: Johnny Barry, John Ward, Jerry O'Dowd, Bnd Bernard, Bill Syring, Bill Mooney. and Dick Swisher. 
Frank Drisooll kept me company for a while and we met a few more of the fellows. One was Bob Frost who is still at Georgetown Medical School and says that Ed McLanghlln is still go­ing there, although no one would know it from the great amount of mail coming out of Wash­ington. D. C. Bob told us that Barney Crawford is now teaching at Annapolis. He has been in service for more than a year now. Bill Tacker bad been in town all week, after straightening out his draft troubles. 
Eddie Jacobs was down from Detroit, but was bemoaning the fact that Leroy Keach was not around. Dave Fox was keeping Jake company and the two of them were wondering if Eli Abraham was going to sell all his programs this week. 
pete Alonzi was selling programs and told me 
that he was planning on ioinins the Air Corps in February. Saw him later and he said that Jse Gnccione was going to be married soon; Hatt Gonring is now in the Army, and TMiy P«(eiiiiuU is working in La Grange, HI. and recently became a father. I also saw: Hal Bowler, busy in some type of civilian defense work. Jim Byrne, back in .school; Paal Chapat, in town for the game; J«lm Cole, seeming to know almost everyone there; Larry Dcrerenx, staying at Bad Kerr's house in nearby Goshen. Bud wanted to hear from more of the football men. and I agreed with him. Hank Engel and his wife were renewing old acqnaint­ances; Cnrt Hester was talking to Grcff Riee; Gene Klier is taking post grad work at school; George Milford had just received his honorable discharge from the army; Didc MizeraU was working at a defense job; Ben Mnrdock had jnst 
received his 4-F draft rating. 
John Courtney managed to break away . from his medical work to get up for the game and he is now located in Indianapolis, going to Indiana medical school. Bob Stenger is working in Mil­waukee at a defense job. Received a wedding an­nouncement from Ray Seqnin. He was married in November. 
—Official U. S. Navy Photo. 

Robert J. Beaadine, '40, of Laarelton, L. L, 
N. Y., was awarded ha Navy wings and a COK-mission as Ensign in the Naval Reserve, after sacccsftfoUy completing a training coarse at the Naval Air Station in Jacksonville, Fla. 
Tony Potenziani wrote an interesting letter: "The Southern Cal game was my first visit back to school since graduation. Believe me. it certainly made me lonely for all the fellas' amid the campus surroundings. 
"X was hoping to see some of our classmates. I finally spotted Chubby Gilliland (diminutive as ever). Chubby told me that Lou ReiUy is in the Air Corps and Jim Metxler is in the Marines. Chubby himself is doing his bit by supervising industrial defense classes in the 'swamps of Missouri.* 
"From Missouri came a missive from the recent bridegroom—Bill Meyer. Hie lucky girl is the Jo Ann of the Senior Ball. Bill tells me that FUI Sandmaier is a recruiting officer in Indianapolis, and that none-too-small Smalley is knocking off a pretty fair salary in the Signal Corps. Bill him­self is managing his father's farm holdings. 
"That's about all the news I have. Now I want to make a request for just an occasional bit of corxespoadaiee from the foUowins bkdca: Btxb Cmamdir, CkmOt MagMr. Sm Od Gaiai^ Jee ll». case. Cent Csaisliiis, JIM Hafnagd. Jee Ifalh­cy, and.Jim LyBch." 
Taai (VBiiea came throuflb with a very inter­esting letter: "At this tioae I am just about back in step as a civilian again. I have done my time in the armed forces of the IT. S. and bat for an attack of riieamatie fever I would be going ri^t along with the rest of them. About a year ago I arrived at the Marine Barracks, Qnantica Va. to begin tnuning in preparation to beeonung a 2ttd Lt..First Class Private O'Brien finally ended up in the V. S. Naval Hospital and in Jane was ordered to inactive duty doe to a medical survey. 
*Vtom Wcfestcr and Tini PhOpett were in my company. Webster left for San Diego for active doty, and Philpott went to Parris Bland, S. C. Jd u Maiphy had not been taken into the Army in November, bat Roger Shoaiiin and Joe SaHers were drafted. Vn4 Rofcertshaw is still with Alle­gheny-Lodlum Steel Corp. 
"Bad Kette is at Georgetown Law School, and hopes to get into the F.BX Joe Ryan is a flaring cadet in California and was recently married to Jayne Kbileda of St. Mary's, 
Jekn Gavin spent a couple of weeks with the de Landeros In Mexico before he came back to the 
U. S. to join the Air Corps. 
Bin Joyce wrote to tell me about the news he had collected: "I have been among the draftees since July 8, 1941. After 13 weeks training as an Infantry man I was sent -to the clasaficatlott office, and given the title of a classification spe­cialist. 
"Working next to me I found two N. D. men. Bin Lassen, '39, and Jack Price, ex. '38. R. J. Steffaniak was in camp for awhile. In case anyone reading this has time to write my address is: Pvt Wimam L. Joyce Hq. Det. Grll I:R.T.C.. Camp Walters, Tex." 
I had been looking for a letter from Joe CB» ­
•Ungs for a long time, and sure enough he did come through: "After spen^ng a year and a half accnmnlating news, and at the same time trying to settie down to sending it to you, it has taken a day in bed to draw it oat of me. A touch of grippe has me temporarily on my hack, so yoo " yon lucky guy—warrant a letter. 
"I spent a year and three months with a bndcer in New York, but when Phil Sandauuer was drafted, and Bob Nrian got ready to be married, we broke op cue apartment and scattered. 
"I took a civilian job with the TI. S. Navy sta­tioned at Pratt and Whitney Aircraft in Eu t ^rtford. When war broke, however, I decided to do something more directly beneficial-'what that will be, remains to be seen. 
"I see Cookie Horse, ex. '40, quite often; he is doing personnel, work in the employment agency and doing very well. N. D. is splashed all over Pratt ft Whitney—'Shad' Cannon, Hyvde Crane, Ed Francoar, Ed Pratt, and all those mentioned before. 
"I haven't seen or heard from any of our crew in qnite a while. Ckadc McCarthy was working with Remington Rand; Didc Lyng was rejected by the Army due to a soperfluoos waistline, and the last t!me I heard from him. he was doing little more than eating. 
"I wonid like to hear from Jim Deyle who was dmng aceoonting wwk according to one report. It amazes me to find that-anemic snail worldng at all. but then I have no proof." Joe's address is 82 Cliff St.. Norwich, Conn. 
Reouved a card from Turn Ford, and he says: "Still at Harvard hat enlisted in the Navy when war broke oat. Expect to he an ensign." 
On Christmas day Jias Msare wrote a letter 
explaining that all typing^ errors -^ere due to too much turkey. Here is his letter, errors and all: "After graduation I took a trp out to the great corn state of Iowa, and paid Earl Baffan a visit and had one fine time. After returning, I worked with my father in the ball bearing business, till the Army decided to take care of me for awhile. I wanted to get into the Ordnance Department and sure enough I was fortunate to be sent down here to Aberdeen, Md. 
"One week-end while down in Washington, D.C. I met Johnny Riduuds, *41. He, at that time, was down at Quantico, Va., at officers' candidate sdiool. GOB Ryan is down here in the Third Ord­nance Training. Battalion, Co. B. as a corporal. 

"Al Koss was working for General Motors Diesel, and doing very well for himself. Floyd Sullivan stopped in Detroit this summer, on his way to the Air Corps. Wish he would contact us. Phil Carron is reported to have a job in the New York Stock Exchange. 
"At the N.D.-Navy game I saw Joe Hart, Don Hidcey, Chuck Duke, and Walt MontaccIIi. Ran into Doug Bangert and Charlie Kelly, of Rich' mond, Va. Johnny Kelldier was also around; he is now attending med-school up in Philadelphia. Kel reports that Jeny Flynn is a radio an­nouncer and sports commentator, and doing all right, as we all know he would. Only I wish that 'Little Irish Rascal' would slow down and write you a letter and let us know some of the details. What has become of good old Doc Donoghue. and Harry 'Shorty' Norris?" 
Jim Moore can be reached by covering the front of an envelope with the following: P.F.C. James T. Moore, Hq. DeL, 5th Ord. Tng. Bn., O.R.T.C., Aberdeen Proving Ground, Md. 
Ed MclAosUIn sent a card telling me that he would write soon, and that's all he said. 
Phil Sandmaler is now in the finance Office at Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. and here are some excerpts from his letter, 
"I spent five months in the reception center at Ft. Benjamin Harrison, one as a guide and the other four in the classification section, inter­viewing incoming recruits, before being trans­ferred to the finance department. Another fellow and I pay the bills here at Fort Harrison, working in the commercial accounts section of the post finance office. Still a private, but have a third class specialist rating." 
"Been in Indianapolis and seen Jack -O'Brien and Jack Cole, but they have both left now. O'Brien is at Aberdeen, Md., and Cole was pro­moted to assistant manager of the telephone com­pany in South Bend. Dave Fox is in the insurance game, Didc O'Connor, *41, Bob Longhcry and Joe GiUespie, '41, are working here in town. Mike Kelly has joined the Navy as a yeoman, and is at present working as stenographer at the local naval station. I humped into Joe Perkins the other day and he said that Ed Sadowski, '39 is engineer at Beilly Tar & Chemical Co. Joe is back in Muncie now. Bob McManns was inducted early in the fall and worked at the reception center before being sent to a training center. Joe Kennedy, ex. '40, went through the center, as did John Ford, '36, Jim Rocap. '39, Jim McNamara. Jim Jordan, '41, and Jade Hennessy, *41. 
"I went up 'to see the Indiana game with O'Brien and Cole, and saw quite a few of the btors: Paid Chapnt, Cnrt Hester, Jdbn Julian. Al Bboney, John Made, Ed EeUy, Ed Porten, Ward Rafferty. and many others I can't recall at the moment. 
"Saw Ray Sdimorr, who is working at Curtiss­Wris^t, and also married and a father. At home I used to see Didc Kdly and his wife very often. Saw Ed HnS, then home on furlough from the National Guard, and talked with Bob Demcter, and C3iBdc Zeffiflb, two of our prospective M. D. 
"Geonre Wallaee is well-set and comfortable in his Brooklyn apartment and working with the 
U. S. Gypsum Co. down in Radio City. Jim H«f­naffel wrote me from Ft. Belvoir, Va., Engineers Replacement IVaining Center. He had been doinsr fine in the industrial engineering department of Owens Illinois Glass. 
"Bob N<dan is also married, living in his be­loved Massachusetts, working in the Boston office of Haskins & Sells. Tom Liston has graduated from Kelly Field. Frank Pieri is a company clerk at Ft. Bliss. Tex. (Coast Artillery). Bob KaA­acker, married, is living in Canton, O. (Address is 505 Bedford Ave.. N. W,)." 
Ihanks, everyone, for all the news and Fm sorry some of the letters had to be shortened. Please keep on writing because I need all the news I can get these days. Thanks for all the Christ­mas cards, and soon Pm going to start answering all your letters. 
Bob Donovan, formerly with the Commonwealth Edison in Chicago, is now in the Naval Reserve at M.I.T. John linnehan is still working with Carnegie-Hlinois Steel Corporation in Gary, Ind., having taken over all the responsibilities connected with oxygen and acetylene equipment for the entire plant. John asks for word from Bob Longhety, Joe Whitford, and Ed Pratt 
Chudc Reddy, looking hale, hearty, and pros­perous, spent the holidays in South Bend. He left early in January to take a promotion in the Lumberman's Mutual Casualty Company, Railway Exchange BIdg., St. Louis. 
Walter Hagen, Jr., doing radio work with the National Broadcasting company, answered the call and is now in the mechanized division at Fort Knox. Ky., driving a tank. 
John Webster writes: 'Tm not at Camp Grant in Rockford as the "Alumnus" seems to think, and I'm not in the Army Air Corps. I am in Cincinnati on the last part of the Civilian Pilot Training Program and should be an instructor (probably Army Air Corps) by the last of Janu­ary. 
"Just now we are flying cross-country in a four place Waco cabin biplane. I've flown over. South Bend three times in the last two 'weeks, but we never had time to stop. On each flight there are three students (who take turns flying) and an instructor. It's a lot of fun, and hard work, but we like it very much." 
'Diis letter some months ago from Don O'Neill, Fresno Air Base, Fresno, Calif.: 
"To the best of my knowledge T constitute the entire Notre Dame CHub membership at the Fresno Air Base. I held the regular nightly meeting of the club with myself present and elected myself president, vice-president, secretary treasurer, and publicity man by a majority vote, so it should be constitutional. • 
"I've been through boot camp, and I do mean *boot* camp. Served a hitch on the air base fire department as crash truck driver and am now 'sweating it out* for an assignment to the Air Corps supply o^ce. 
"In your letter you say I am the only guy who knows where I am. (Solly, sir, you sure have opened up my eyes to the fact that I must be the original 'Lost Troop,* because I don't know where I am most of the time. The Army has a habit of sending men out on detail without telling us where, when, or why, and I thought that they at least knew where I was. 
"To be serious. I was inducted June 23 at Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ind., where I remained for about eight days. On July 4, we were put on a train for Fresno and were the first to arrive here, 80 could be called charter members. The regular army quartermaster cozps had arrived several days cariy and set up a tent city for us to live in. About a month later we moved out here to the regular air base from the Fresno city airport where we had establiished temporary quarters. It was quite an event moving from tents to barracks. 
"Even a Notre Dame man couldn't show us more ho^itality tlian these Fresno people. They take us out riding, home for dinner, out to a show, and ^ve dances in our honor. Yes, even the Fresno female population is friendly, and all of us have made social contacts in this great little city of 65,000 population. 
"We have a Mass every Sunday in the post movie house at 7:16 a.m., but most of the fellows prefer to go into town to a regular church where they stand a chance of being invited out for a Sunday dinner. As far as I know, we have no 
G.S.C. parish in Fresno, but we do have several convents of the Holy Cross Sisters in town. . 
"Both the morals and morale are good in this camp, and I believe that the Fresno people, being so friendly and giving us a chance to live a norma! life as much as possible when in town, have had a great deal to do with the soldiers wanting to keep this position secure—result, we live to get to town, and we live when we are in town." 
A government bulletin announced that Emmett llieiien, ex. '40, was graduated Oct, 31 with his class of Aviation Cadets from Randolph Held, Tex., and was beginning his final ten weeks at a spedalized air corps school, preparatory to being commissioned second lieutenant in the Air (^rps Reserve. 
Both Frederick Jenks, of Los Angeles, and John Henebry, Plainfield, 111., were scheduled to be graduated from Randolph Field during Christmas week, and to be transferred immediately to the Advanced Flying School at Kelly Held for 10 weeks of instruction before receiving their wings and commissions as second lieutenants. 
The Fensel twins, Francis P., *40, and Albert J., ex. '42, both enlisted in the Air Corps at the same time in the Buffalo recruiting station. They expected to be stationed at Maxwell Field, Ala. 

Tex Barreda was graduated as an aviation cadet on Dec 12, from Randolph Field. Tex. 
Pfc Mattfiew N. Gonring, is attached to Hq. 

Btry, 3rd Regt F.A.R.C., Fort Bragg, N. C, 
diaries O. Weilbadier, in service, has been transferred from the Tucson. Ariz., air base; destination unknown. 
Clarence "Fete" Sheehan, formerly with Truscon Steel, Youngstown, O., has a fine new job on the Youngstown **Vindicator.** Pete is handling all Catholic news for the paper, among other things. 
1941 
John W. Patterson, Jr., 5330 Darling­ton Rd^ Pittsbnrcfa, Pa. 
From John Patterson: 

Swirling in my direction like a hurricane, what was once a remote, mild draft will catch me before this "Alumnus" hits the mail. Ttora that time there is a great probability that the 1941 section of the "Alumnus" will be reduced in size. 
Bat for my last fling before the wearin* of the khaki there is a high stack of letters from whidi to draw material. And a book of facts from the typewriter of Al Perrine should provide an interesting hour's reading for *41ers. I've pruned out a hit of Al's voluminous content, but what follows for the next thousand paragraphs is pure­ly his stuff. 
£Vom Mr. Perrine: '*Sorry that I haven't writ­ten before this. Fat, because I was in a wonderful qpot to pick up a whole flock of news that you might use. lliat is, from the bes^nning of October nntil a few days after the Southern Cat. game I 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
was working as a secretary to the Notre Dame Club of Kew York with headquarteis in the Hotel Gommodoie. 
"Had Thaoksgivins dinaer with Balph Gens at a friend's house and at the time he was attending Columbia Law—and very much dis­gruntled over the hours he was keepinff. 
"Also in the Law School category is John Goiney uptown a little further at Fordham. And although 1 only saw him for a few minutes at a high school football game, I've seen his dad a number of times and the latest reports are that the young hopeful is really sluggin* away at the books. 
"The Army game week-^nd really gave me a wealth of material for you.—Dan Kelly from Syracuse was at the time working in that metro, polls—^**Unc** McJonkin, waltzing around as usual with a grin from ear to ear, at the time was wearing 'civies' in place of his ordinary Navy 'belUbottoms'—^Tom McGee, was attending school at a Naval Training Base uptown; he's now graduated. Jack Boyle from Duluth, now in the employ of W. B. Grace & Co. Bick Belden in the Commodore lobby—George BlUes, now of the olive drab family at Camp Upton, L. I.—George Zeller. likewise—Ed Hsrrey, at Law School with Guiney at Fordham—Ray Schleiaer^ a defense worker in an aeronautics plant in Long Island City—Jim O'Brien* also in the defense picture in the form of an instrument company. 
The latest I've heard from Dan Stack is that he's in Florida getting hooked up with some Army training school as an airplane instructor; doing well tool Bert Kelly is in solid with a cement company here in N. Y. and I saw quite a bit of him while working at the Commodore. 
"Noel HseCarrr was ri(^t down the block from me, at the N. Y. "Daily News." He really likes the job and was wondering how you, a brother newspaper guy, was making out. 
"Dnke Murphy was being considered by the Harvard Naval Beserve School. 
"Speaking of the Harvard outfit. Bill Cotter was also on the hook for the w, k. spot, but the last I heard from him, which, incidentally, was on the way to Baltimore, the lug. he hadn't heard anything from them. Saw Bill a number of times as his dad's office was right across the street from nune. 
"Met John BlacCaoley two or .three times and every time within the radius of 50 feet of the, original meeting—of all places. Grand Central Station I 
"Had a few letters from Cliff Buckley from Fort Bragg he really writes a hot letter and I would have received more, I'm sure, if I hadn't let the series fall off by not writing. 
"Heard that Gerry Sullivan was pounding in rivets in an airplane factory, also on Long Is­land somewhere. Cliff mentioned in his last letter that some of the new arrivals in Fort Bragg were Bill Ualaney and Jack O'Brien (Minnesota). 
"Also while working with the New York outfit I met up a few times with Jim Murphy, who was married a few weeks ago, and was working for a cable company uptown. The Army Game also brought WiOy Woods into town. 
"I traipsed down to Baltimore for the Navi* Game, which was a humdinger, and met a mess of other fellas. To mention a few. Bill Carbine, looking swell, and Lon Apone who was then workins in Baltimore. Ran into George Kattcr. He's going to' Georgetown Medical, as is John Stsdc and both of them are working' their ears off. Cap Jehrlng also knocked me over with a slip on the back to say that he was working in Washington. Or Garvey sat a few scats away from dad and I and had only the time to say hello before Fat German bellowed a few rows down. Pat gave me the stuff on jack Bute , now also in Washington. 
"I think it was Noel HacCany who oontributed the info that Bod Fowler, Dave Fawais^ Jefeaaie Richard* and Bog Foley are now second litntoi­ants at the Naval Base in Quantico, Vs. As also did Mac toss in that Red Stcpkaas was connected with the Topeks naval recruiting outfit. 
"Among the other things that I helped run for the N. D. New York Club was a trip to school for the Southern Cal game. Met s slew of fellas there also. Jack O'Brien from Ohio in psrticulsr. He was married just recently and expected to set to New York to work soon. Found out then that Hutch Korth and Tom Carroll are working for the Chrysler Corporation as draftsmen in Detroit. Didn't see Hutch, but did wave to Tom. I used Bill Padon's razor Saturday morning but didn't see Bill himself. He was up in Chi for the week-end and forgot his razor, much to my good fortune. He's rooming with Howie Sckellenberc across the hall from Jim Diver*. Danny DaUn and Tom Morrison, all of whom are pncking bags for keeps in February. 
"In August I met up with Liestensat (and first 
louie, at that) Joseph Kaitenbich—^who is now 
residing in London, England if you'll pswdea ma 
saying solII Yep, he's over there with the dee­
tronics division of our government stodyins air 
raid devices—and Bob Segnet, also. What a manT' 
Thus contributes Al Ferrine—I 
Being subject to more than my share of human frailties. I have mislaid a short note from Jack Hennessy'a father. However, delving deep into memory. I recall that young John is now in the throes of military training. Further information is forthcoming—after 1 have perused the untidy drawers of my messed up desk. 
Bob Fitzpatrick writes from New York to say that he is using his journalism courses to ad­vantage at the Albert Frank-Gnenther law adver­t'sing agency. He sends word that D. 6. Ssffirsn is "turning out dive bombers out on Long Island." Other Fitzpatrick notes—J. Donald Bbgnire has worked for an express company, sold hosiery, and is now "resting and waiting for the government to pick the psycholo^cal moment for him to enter the war," Chock FarrcU betook unto himself a bride, the former Miss Marian Buckley (society copyreading cropping up in me again). 
Other letters are from John Powera, Art Haii­by. Homer Ferguson, Bob Langlois. 
Powers is an airman at Randolph Field; Hnmby got his wings and a second lieutenancy at Brooks Field in Texas; Langlois is flying around San Antonio; and Ferguson is a draftee at Ckmp Barkley, Tex. 
I'd like to thank personally every one of the 1041 boys who shipped Christmas cards my way. This job of writing for the "Alumnus" has its Kood points. Every letter is more than welcome. Just keep sending them to the same address, ^ e family will send them to the camp at whidi I'm stationed. 
As a closing observation—Notre Dame men have added n lot to the U. S. armed forces in quantity —-and from what I understand, much more than a lot of quality. 
William Craig Simmons was commissioned as Ensign in the Naval Beserve and awarded his Navy wings early in January at Jacksonville; Fla. 
Dudley StoUer, of Bremen. Ind., and Joe Calla­han, of Dowagiac. Mich., are both working for the Kingsbury Ordnance Plant. Kingsbury. Ind.. near LaPorte. 
Bob Saggan is (or was) with the Chicago Black-hawk Flying Squadron at Curtis airport in Glen-view, HI. 
BciBsid Macs is in the first yesr class st the Cornell Law SehooL Bab Kech. vriio msxtied St. Mary's Stella Be^n last October, is working 'or the Michigan Homital Service in Detroit. Bob in s the asastsnt .director of that organization is Jehm B. Bctfey, '34. 
Geetce Fcnick writes that he is atten£ng the administrative clerical course at the Air Cknps Tedmical ^baininK School, Fort Logan, Cido. BBTS attached to the 24th Sdool Squadron there. 
Jelu' MsBsfy, Jr., began his nsvsl sivistlaB Si^ t tiwning at Floyd Bennett Field. Brocddyn, 
N. Y., on Dee. IS. Hiram J[aeepb BW% Jc . had begun his training st the same field on Nov. 21. 
From their mother comes' word of two from the class of 'il, Hany and. Lany KcLaaiWa. Harry, who left in his senior yesr to enlist *M an aviation cadet, vnu graduated from Mnakoaee; Randolph, and Kelly fields. He was married to Miss Lndlle Sevald Oct. 1, at a beantifnl wedding in Boyal Oak, Wch. He and his bride Uve in Boise, where he is a second lieutenant at Gowen field, in the headquarters squadron. Larry has also enlisted as an aviation cadet and is now at Kelly Held. 
Charles G. OBveres was graduated with the class of aviation cadets from Randolph lUd . Tex., on Dec. 12. Gard is now in the advanced school, st Vietoris, completing his trunint; prep­aratory to receiving his commission as a second lieotenant about the middle of February. 
Aviation Cadet Bernard Leage was transferred frmn the Jacksonville Naval Air Station to the Air Station near Miami, Fla., in the first week of January according to a dispatch from the public relations officer. Bemie joined the Navy while stin a student at Notre Dame, but remained to get his B.SL degree. 
Densid Marietta writes: "On June 2, I was employed as material urging clerk with the E. L dnPont Company in Charlestown, Ind. On June 8. I married Miss Esther Marie Eelley, and the ceremony was performed in the Log Cfaapel by Father Lyiidk On Sept 22, I was transferred to Childersborg, Ala., on the Alabama Ordnance Works and made asastant material control engi­neer, whidi I am at present." 
Jim Tinny win become a naval aviation cadet vdth the commission of ensign when he finishes his training course at the Naval air station. Corpus Christi. Tex. 
Jade Kane has accepted a position as junior en};ineer. inspector of ordnance materials in the Signal Corps, New York area. BrooUyn base. 
Both Gene and Pa d Delay are awaiting the can from Uncle Sam. Paul recently wilisted in the Naval Air Corps and expects to be eaUed to dnty in the near future. Gene Is pisnning to enlist in some branch of service witUn a short time. 
M. J. Converse was awarded an army aviation cadet p3ot scholarship in September. Upon com­pletion of this training he wffl jcAa the regular air force as a second lieutenant pilot. 
Beb Daley, ex. '41, was eomadsdoned as aeeond lieutenant in the U. S. Army Air Corps during September graduation exerdses at Baikadale FSeld. La. Bob has been assigned to the air foree ferry­ing command at Pendleton. Ore. 
Didc Everrsad was recently appointed the new Chamber of Commerce secretary in St. CharlM^ Md, so be and lbs . Everoad have moved to that dty fniB bdanspoHs. vAere they had. been living. 
Beb Wstters, with the General Electrie Testing Department, since July, was transferred froeti Schenectady, N. Y. to Fort Wayne, Ind., in Oc­tober. 
Jeaeph Casey is now district manager of the ITcniirrli Institute of America, 221 N. LaSalle St . Chicago. 
Earl Godwin, dean of the White House Press Correspondents and nationally known NBC commentator on events in the Capital, says: 
To take care of the Nation's business in the emergency 
Thousands More of Weli-Educated, Well-Trained Men and Women Are Needed in the Civil Service 
COLLEGE TRAINING is a prerequi­site^—or at least a big asset—for many of these positions. 
The whole load of responsibility for locating the best available men—and women—for important Federal jobs is on the U. S. Civil Service Commission. DOZENS of examinations are open continuously. Applicants in many cases only have to file the proper application forms and name the examination they're applying for. The Commission has done everything possible to knock out delays and red tape in getting applicants rated and on the job, but it still looks like a busy winter ahead for the men who are trying to fill Uncle Sam's jobs. 
Federal recruiting of civilian person­nel goes on 24 hours a day handling ap­plications, ratings, and certifications to Government personnel ofiEces, but my good friend President Mitchell, of the Commission, tells me they're anxious to receive one—or two—or even twenty —or thirty thousand more applications for responsible Government positions that HAVE to be filled. 
In filing YOUR application you will be directly assisting the Government by oflFering your experience and train­ing for use in professional, scientific, or administrative work. 
* * * 
Current civil-service examinations 
are listed in a bulletin, "Examinations 
for the U. S. Civil Service," which, 
with application forms, may be secured 
from the representative of the U. S. 
Civil Service Commission at any first 
or second-class post office or from 
the Commission's district office in the 
following cities: Seattle, San Francisco, 
Denver, St. Paul, St.Louis, New Orleans, 
Chicago, Cincinnati, Atlanta, Boston, 
New York City, Philadelphia, and 
Washington, D. C. 
U CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION 
• *•*••**•***•**•**** 
(This space is contributed by the Alumnus in ihc interests of the National Welfare) 









