The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

THE NOTRE DAME 
ArLl^m 

7f-M'%'C' 
-^5 •t-:'4 

v>*"c v^isst-.-r'N, 
.fe^?& 
•^M'^^T^J^i

i*" A \*.­A^ 
^.S&v 




f^^;^ ?yj' »• 
,c: 

Mo5/ i?er. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., D.D. 
Vol. 18 FEBRUARY, 1940 

CONSECRAflON CEREMONIES IN SACRED HEART CHURCH 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This maguzir.e is published monthly from October to June. Inclusive (except January), by the Universitj- of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second cl.iss matter October 1, 1939, at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. 
JA.MES E. ARMSTRONG, 75. Editor; WILLIAM R. DOOLEY. '26, Managing Editor 
Vol. 18. FEBRUARY, 1940 No. 4 
Bishop O'Hara Is Consecrated 
Titular Bishop of Milasa, Auxiliary of the Army and 
Navy Diocese, Notre Dame's Former Prefect of Re­
ligion, and Former President, Launched in New Career 
Father .John O'Hura, C.S.C, '11, has been a history-maker at Notre Dame from his undergraduate days. Impatient of delay and red tape, imbued with a vitality to keep pace with his ciuick mind he finished his college work in three years. Determining on the priesthood, he was soon ordained and contributing to the campus those many influences that have subsetiuently flowered. 
He was impres.sed, from his South American Ijackground, with the import-
THE PiaURES OPPOSITE 

Top: Biiliop John F. O'Hara, C.S,C,, im­parts liii blessing to those attending the Con­secrationr Bishop Ritttr u« his /e/f. Bishop j\oll on his right. 
Upper left: Archbishop Spellman and Bishop O'Hara in a part of the ceremonies, iVole beautiful detail of miters and baclfground. 
Upper right: 7 he splendor of both cere­monl; and of Sacred fleart Church is caught in this vicTV of a portion of the Consecration, 
Center left: This vieTV of record-brcal(ing group of the House of Bishops in attendance at the Consecration rvas tal(en in the Uni­versity Parlor of the .\fain Building. 
Center right: Another general viele, shutt­ing the effective lighting that brought out the beauties of Sacred Heart Church. 
Lojver left: The Cospel bool^ is placed on the Bishup-clecCs shoulders tli Father Thomas XfcAvoy. Fathers Eugene Burl^e and Charles Xtiltner are on the altar. Father John Burl^e holds the crazier presented to Bishop O'Hara by alumni and friends, Tuith the Statue of Our Lady its principal feature. 
Lower right: Bishop-elect O'Hara reading a part of the 5ervi*ce, surrounded by Bishops Noll and Ritter, bis co-consecratars. Fathers Connor and (Fenningcr, masters of ceremony, and others of the 35 dignitaries Tvho tool^ active part in the Consecration. 
ance of a study of commercial relations with other countries. The College of Commerce in 1920 was a result of his zeal; ho was its first dean. 
Elsewhere in this issue there is a beautiful outline of the transition of Notre Dame under his spiritual guid­ance from an ordinary college campus to a City of God, half of whose inhabi­tants are daily communicants. 
His presidency was marked by a suc­cession of projects, any one of them a tribute to administrative ability, and all of them requiring time and detail for a full tribute of appreciation. No one col­lege or department held the wide and active range of his attention. Many fu­ture developments will find their roots in his admini.-tration. 
So it was not surprising that, in one sense, closing his career at Notre Dame, he should continue to mold its history. 
On December 11, news came from Rome that the Holy Father had chosen Father O'Hara as 'Titular Bishop of Mi­lasa, and Au.xiliary Bishop of the Army and Navy Diocese, of which His E.xcel­lency, Archbishop Spellman, is the Or­dinary. This mai'ked the first elevation of a president of Notre Dame to the episcopacy. 
And on January 15, in Sacred Heart Church, in the presence of the largest assembly of hierarchy and clergy in No­tre Dame's history. Bishop O'Hara was raised to his new offices by Archbishop Spellman, and Bishops John F. Noll, of Fort Wayne, and Joseph E. Ritter of Inidanapolis. 
The more than two score Bishops at the ceremony were headed by five Met­ropolitans, .\rchbishop Spellman of New York, -A.rchbishop Francis J. L. Beckman of Dubuque, Archbishop Samuel Stritch of Jlilwaukee and -Archbishop-designate of Chicago, Archbishop-designate Moses 
Kiley of Milwaukee, and Archbishop 
Louis Mathias of Madras, India. Present 
also were three -A.bbots, forty Monsign­
ori, hundreds of priests, including su­
periors of religious orders, numerous 
distinguished statesmen, educators, civic 
and business leaders, industrialists, 
alumni of Notre Dame, members of the 
Army and Navy chaplains, and friends 
and family. 
Bishop O'Hara's mother was pre­vented from coming by inclement weath­er, but many other members of the fam­ily attended. Bishop O'Hara was conse­crated before the arrival of the Apos­tolic Letters, and permission for his con­.-^ecration was read by the notarius, Rev. Norbert Hoff, instead of the Letters, a rare privilege, through permission from the Apostolic Delegate, Jlost Rev. Am­leto Giovanni Cicognani. 
After the consecration, many other de­tails of which are described elsewhere in this issue, those attending the ceremony, who filled a beautifully decorated and lighted Sacred Heart ChurcTi, were guests at a luncheon in the University Dining Halls. Rt. Rev. Monsignor D. L. Monahan was toastmaster. Speakers were Most Rev. Francis J. Spellman, D.D., Jlost Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., and Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, who presented to Bishop O'Hara a purse on behalf of alumni and friends. 
Members of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association were special guests at both the consecration cere­monies and the subsequent banquet. President Daniel E. Hilgartner, Vice-President Henry C. Wurzer, Directors Joseph M. Byrne, Francis McKeever and Edward O'Toole, William R. Dooley and James E. Armstrong, were among the official alumn i representatives who wished the new Bishop and beloved fel­low alumnus .Ad Mvltos Annas. 
(OS The Notre Dame Alumnus 
THE CONSECRATION BANQUET 

Left to Hght: Most Rev. Samuel Stritch, Archbishop-designate of Chicago, Very Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C., Most Rev. John F. Noll, Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., Most Rev. Francis J. Spellman, Archbishop of New York. 
Archbishop Welcomes Bishop O'Hara 
Says New Bishop Will Serve St. Cecilia's Parish, New yorit City 
Notre Dame is not losing Bishop O'Hara, but through him -will bring the spirit of Notre Dame to the coun­try and to the Army and Navy, the Most Rev. Francis J. Spellman, Arch­bishop of New York and Bishop O'Hara's Ordinary in his new post, declared at the luncheon in the Univer­sity Dining Halls which followed the new Bishop's consecration. 
"My first word today is a word of veneration and of respect and of grati­tude to him whom I succeed as Chap­lain Bishop of the Army and Na^'y, Car­dinal Hayes," Archbishop Spellman said. 
"I have had the happiness this morn­ing of consecrating Bishop O'Hara as Auxiliary Bishop of the Catholics in the armed forces of the United States. I want to say that this is going to be one instance where the Ordinary of the dio­cese will act as the Auxiliary Bishop, because I enter upon my pastorate as Bishop of the Army and Navy forces by delegating my powers to Bishop O'Hara. I am conscious I will succeed . in these new duties because I have com­plete confidence in Bishop O'Hara's carrying out everything that is expected of me. 
"I want to say also on this occasion that I think it proper and just that I pay a debt of gratitude to Monsignor Waring, who ser\'ed well as Vicar Gen­eral of the diocese of the Army and Navy, and who has asked to be relieved of those duties. I have agreed to his request, and so Monsignor Waring re­linquishes those duties that he has per­formed so well during all these years and for which service Monsignor Waring has my gratitude and the gratitude of all of us. 
"Bishop O'Hara becomes the military vicar of the Army and Navj' — he be­comes Vicar General. His Chancellor will be the Rev. Robert E. McCormick of the archdiocese of New York, who will be at the exclusive service of Bishop O'Hara. Bishop O'Hara will, at pres­ent, reside at the Archbishop's residence, 452 Madison avenue. His chancery of­fice will be in the Chancery Office of the archdiocese, 477 Sladison avenue. -A^t Bishop O'Hara's request, he is also to have quarters at the rectory of St. Cecilia's Church, 12.5 East 105th street, where he will have a permanent resi­dence and a permanent home, and where he will have an opportunity of practic­ing the works of ministiy among the 
MOTHER AND SON 
The ring, given to him by Bishop Ritter, was Bishop Chartrand's, who ordained Bishop O'Hara. 

people he has served very well and very long. He will have an opportunity of serving.a population lately to come to our shores from Puerto Rico, and where, with his knowledge of Spanish, he can help them to retain the religion of their countrj-. There he will have the assist­ance of seven American Spanish-speak­ing Redemptorist Fathers, who are now taking over that parish permanently. 
"Some three years ago, on a rainy afternoon, he who is now our Holy Father, Pope Pius XII, came to Notre Dame, on a day that was hazardous for flying, to receive an honorary degree from Notre Dame — to honor Notre Dame as he honored two other Catholic universities by receiving honorary de­grees. Bishop O'Hara wrote to me after that visit of His Holiness and he said that, despite the rain, it was the most glorious and brightest day in he history of Notre Dame. 
"Pope Pius XII has again come to our university, and, through the midst of the sorrow that hovers over our campus today, there is also a bright light in the history of Notre Dame. It is not that Notre Dame loses Father O'Hara. It is not that Notre Dame gives Bishop O'Hai-a up forever. It is that Notre Dame, through the personality of Bishop O'Hara •n-idens the University's scope, and brings the spirit of Notre Dame into our .ALrmy and Navy, brings the spirit of Notre Dame into our country, and the spirit of Notre Dame is a spirit of pa­triotism, the spirit of devotion to our countrj', the spirit of love for the Church. I am sure that the chaplains of our armed forces, men of peace serving for peace, will, under the leader­ship of their own Bishop O'Hara, inspire their men to live lives of ^'irtue, lives of men ready and willing to die for country, Und for Church, and for man, and to live for country, and for Church, and for man, which is even harder than to die, under the glorious leadership in­spired by his glorious example." 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 


South Bend Honors New Bishop 
Dinner in Oliver Hotel on January 9 is City's Expres­
sion of Affection; Former Congressman Pettengill 
Speaks; Studebaker President Hoffman Toastmaster 
Most Rev. John F. O'Hai-a, C.S.C, D.D., retiring president of the Univer­sitj' of Notre Dame, who recently was appointed titular bishop of llilasa and auxiliary to the archbishop of New York by Pope Pius XII, was the guest of honor Jan. 9 at a testimonial dinner in the Oliver hotel given by South Bend citizens. 
The dinner was served in the Rotary room and the t\vo adjoining rooms on the south, 375 persons occupying the attractively laid tables. 
Following the impressive invocation by Rabbi Albert M. Shulman, of Temple Beth-El, and the dinner ser\'ice, extracts from letters of congratulations were read by F. A. Miller, chairman of the general committee. 
Following reading of congratulations Mr. Miller introduced Paul G. Hoffman, president of the Studebaker corporation, as toastmaster. Mi*. Hoffman presented Mayor Jesse I. Pavey, w^ho spoke for the city. 
". . . When you depart from our midst you •n'iH leave with the full knowledge that you have endeared yourself to the entire citizenship of South Bend and we unite in extending to you our best wishes and our humble prayers for your future health and welfare. . . ." 
Mayor Pavey was followed by former Congressman Samuel B. Pettengill who paid high tribute to Father O'Hara and closed by presenting him a beautiful platinum, open face watch engi-aved on the back of which are these words: "Pre­sented to Bishop John F. O'Hara by his South Bend friends, Jan. 9, 1940." 
Mr. Pettengill said: "This evening belongs neithei- to the university nor to the church. This eve­ning belongs to South Bend. Neither i-ace nor creed separate us. They unite us. There is Rabbi Shulman who asked God, as Tiny Tim might have done, to bless us every one. 
"You will recall Schiller's great story of Nathan the Wise. It concerned a Jew and a Christian. They were friends for many years but they could not whol­ly obliterate the thought that a line divided them. Finally in some great crisis, as in a lightning flash, they saw each other plain, -•^nd then the Chris­tian cried, 'Why Nathan, you are a Christian.' And Nathan replied, 'What makes me to you a Christian makes you to me a Jew.' 
"And there is Dr. Baillie, a gentler Jonathan Edwards living in our midst. Father, I'll let you in on a secret about Dr. Baillie. He is a Presbyterian with leanings toward Christianity. (Tremen­dous laughter.) 
"It is not a bad way for men to live together. The wide world, to its good profit, might follow our example. There was Tay Pay O'Connor, the great Irish 
M. P. He used to say, 'Look at Ireland, Protestants at the north of it. Catholics at the south of it, always at each other's throats. Why can't they be heathen so they could all live like Christians?' 
"A tolerant world. I was Father O'Hai-a's guest one day at Rockne field. 
The race went not to the swift nor the battle to the strong all through the first half. Up in the grandstand was a loyal alumnus who tried to assuage his grief with what the old Romans called aqua fortis, but known to us modems as spir­itus frumenti. 
"But at the half he could stand it no longer and called out 'Father O'Hara, if you don't get those Irish clicking I'm going to turn Methodist.' 
"Yes, a tolerant world I 
'So many roads that tvind and loind, 
'So many faiths, so many creeds, 
'When just the art of being kind 
'Is all this this old jvorld needs.' 
"To those of us who have been living here in this world-famed city tolerance, like the charity of which it is a part, began at home. It has abolished all boundaries between town and go^vn. We are not like the walled cities of mediseval times. No moat, no drawbridge divides us. We of the town and you of the gown are the common inheritors of a great and happy tradition. 
"Great men of both the city and the University willed that It be so. To men­tion only one of a noble galaxy, I can not forget at this movement genial, lovable Father Cavanaugh. God rest his soul in the peace that he deserves. How many times in this very room did the magic of his eloquence make us forget that we were Catholic, Protes­tant, Gentile or Jew, Greek or bar­barian. 
"It was old St. Thomas Aquinas him-
SOUTH BEND'S GOODBYE TO THE BISHOP 
Left to right: Very Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., Rabbi Albert Shulman, Toastmaster Paul Hoffman, Chairman F. 
A. Miller, Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., Mayor Jesse Pavey, Speaker Samuel Pettengill, Rev. C T. Baillie, Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, Episcopal Bishop Campbell Gray, Mr. E. M. Morris. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus
no 
self who said, 'Among all world things there is nothing which seems worthy to be preferred to friendship. For friend­ship unites good men, preserves and promotes virtue. It is what all men need in whatsoever occupations they engage. In prosperity it does not thrust itself un­wanted upon us nor does it desert us in adversity. It is what brings with it the greatest delight, to such an extent that pleases is changed to weariness when friends are absent. 
But primus inter paribus, first among equals. No one, Father, none of those who handed down to you from Father Soiin's time the lamp of knowledge and the torch of Christ, none has done more than you have done to cement us as Americans all, proud of Notre Dame, proud of South Bend's fame, jealous of Indiana's name, first among states in the greatest nation in the world! 
"It is not appropriate. Father O'Hara, that I dwell at length upon the course to which duty and God have called you. As I remember the Good Book it be-cometh not to speak of him that girdeth his armor on but rather him who layeth it off. No doubt there will be moments of anxiety, but your wit will see you through. But if you ever get in a really tough spot remember the Irishman be­fore the Irish judge. The judge said, "Haven't I seen you here several times before?' "No, your honor. The only time in my life I ever saw a face with the look of eagles upon it like yours was when I once gazed upon the picture of an Irish king.' 'Case dismissed.' 
"Notre Dame and South Bend will not seem the same with Father O'Hara absent from us. But we can still re­joice that he will be in God's keeping and doing God's will. Woodrow Wilson, whose spirit had been tried in the fire of great hopes crushed to dust, in what I think was his last written message to lus fellow Americans, said: 'Our civiliza­tion can not survive materially unless it is redeemed spiritually. It can be saved only by keeping permeated with the spirit of Christ and being made free and happy by the practices that spring from that spirit.' 
"I am profoundly convinced, now more than ever, as we see the modem godless Caesars return to ancient Eomes, living and perishing by the sword, crush­ing all that is decent in the relationship between man and man and man and his Maker, that the supreme crisis of our times is a moral failure and that no party, no statesman and no government can redeem us from our sins. 
'Except the Lord build the House 
'They labor in vain that build it, 
'And except the Lord the city keep, 
'The watcher but waketh in vain.' 
"My fellow citizens of South Bend and Notre Dame, Father O'Hara would not wish us to catalog at length the qualities for which we love him. I will pass over his scholarly attainments, his rare administrative ability under which his beloved Notre Dame has grown like a green bay tree and from whence his thousands of boys have gone forth to enrich our lives with their faith in them­selves, in Notre Dame and our common country. 
"But I can not close without one word concerning Father O'Hara as a man. And for its expression in language be­yond my power I go back to what Sallust said of the elder Cato, one of the noblest men whose name is like a shining bead on the rosary of time: 
" 'As for Cato, his only study was moderation, regular conduct and, above all, rigorous severity. He did not vie with the wealthy in riches, nor in tur­bulence with the factious but taking a nobler aim he contended in valor with the brave, in modesty with the modest, in integrity with the upright and was more desirous to be virtuous than to ap­pear so; so that the less he courted fame, the more it followed him.' 
"Father O'Hara, wherever j'ou go you will have 'honor, love, obedience, troops of friends.' But I trust it will always be a happy memory to you to recall these faces of your old fellow townsmen who love you best of all. In their be­half, and at their request, I present you with this slight token of our admiration and our love." 
Father O'Hara responded in a feeling way which indicated the depth and sin­cerity of his appreciation of the compli­ment paid him by South Bend and also of the gift. He pointed to the close relationship which has developed be­tween South Bend and Noti-e Dame and its significance and hoped it always would exist. He referred to the great responsibilities confronting him in his new work and the possibilities it offers. 
Following the singing of the first stanza of "America" the benediction was pronounced by Rev. Charles Tupper Baillie, D.D., pastor of the First Presby­terian church. For a long time after the early adjournment Father O'Hara was kept busy receiving congratulations from men present and in autographing the evening's program the first cover page of which bears a most excellent picture of him. 
Among those from out of the city at­tending the dinner were Col. George Miller, Culver Military academy. Culver, Ind.; John C. Tully, '11, president of the LaGrange National bank, LaGrange, 111.; Bishop Campbell Gray, Slishawaka; Byron V. Kanaley, '04, Chicago, presi­dent of the board of lay trustees of the University; Daniel Hilgartner, Jr., '17, Chicago, president of the Alumni Asso­ciation; John Dwyer, of Chicago. 

"The God-fearing men who laid the CONSECRATORS AND THE CONSECRATED foundation of this republic knew well Left to right: Archbishop Spellman, contecrator; Bishop O'Hara; Bishop that: Noll and Bishop Ritter, co-consecrators. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus III 

The Open Door 
By Rt. Rev. Thomas V. Shannon. LL.D. '21 
Preacher at Consecrtation Points to Bishop O'Hara's Accomplishments at Notre Dame as Evidence of His Singular Fitness for His New Duties. 
(Monsignor Shannon, LL.D.,'21, preached the sermon at the consecration of Bishop 
•I O'Hara. Rev. L. V. Broiighal, C.S.C., made this digest for the ALUMNUS-B'&.J 
Monsignor Shannon based his theme on Apocalypse 3, 8, "Behold I set before thee an open door, and no man can 
^ shut it." 
The text is apt, for the work commit­ted to Bishop O'Hara has a special char­acter: "Scattered through this nation are those whom we regard as the pledge of our safe existence, the continuance of our national life. Fighting is their busi­ness, but dying is not less so. A soldier does not make war; nor is he a war­monger. No one knows better than the combatant the hatefulness of war, its crucifying drudgery. Pacifism would identify the soldier with the evil of 
Both in the Old and the New Testa­ment soldiers are held in honor. St. Paul admires the Roman Centurion and bor­rows his character, duties, equipment for metaphors to impress upon his hearers the lessons of the Gospel of Peace. The Church has always upheld this as the 
• ideal after which men should strive. "Soldiers, men in the rough, with all a man's virtues and all a man's faults, claiming, reclaiming them" will be a task familiar to Bishop O'Hara for "to how many has he not stood in the shoes of God these 20 years past?" 
A We are no to be set down by hasty generalizations that today "there are no open doors, that men are turning to everything save Christ and His Church." St. Paul, for whom there opened a great door, an effectual one, is no less em-
T phatic than was St. John, for "the very existence of persecution and enmity spurred him on, nor did he doubt of victory; the forces of evil vanished as the treasures of divine grace flooded in when the door was opened. "Now as then,. the door is open, because Christ 
i lives and reigns. His Kingdom is an everlasting Kingdom, and His Church is the Army of that Kingdom." 
With the Episcopal Mandate Bishop O'Hara receives today goes another by choice of occupation. No uniform marks the rank, for "he will fight not against and principalities of evil. His armor will be Christ whose soldier he is. His is the warfare for justice, love and peace." 
Through "the great door, the effectu­al one" that opens today, we may see an immense territory, inviting, uncharted. It is not unlike the work Bishop O'Hara has done all the years of his priestly life, a work which never had about it the perfunctoriness of a routine, nor from which he permitted even the duties of high office to divorce him. "No other duty could come before the cherished one of guiding, admonishing, consoling, uplifting troubled youth. The record he has achieved has become a manual to in­spire and direct others in a work in which he was a trail-blazer. It was the Charity of Christ wedded to the deep affection for youth that urged him on." 
Today he receives the title of Pontiff which, in its origin, meant "a builder of 
Rt. Rev. Thomas V. Shannon 

bridges." Both the man and the craft were held in honor. Theirs was the task to span chasms, to level valleys, to smooth the way of the traveller. "Its sig­nificance today is the more noteworthy since so much of the forces let loose upon the world make for division, misunder­standing, suspicion and fear. The myths of class and race, the myths of socialist and proletarian are put to the work of eradicating the mark of God in the souls of men." 
Sanctity, one of the characteristic marks of the Church, and learning, its congenial companion, never shine with greater lustre than when they adorn the diadem of those selected to rule the Church of God. We may not invade the inner forum of Bishop O'Hara, however strong our convictions may be on that point. "His learning is of the type not garnered from books alone, but that deeper learning which comes from the association vdth. men. In this connection it was largely through his efforts that was saved the fellowship of men on this western hemisphere, which had been all but lost through prudery or worse. 
The consecration thus takes on a fur­ther significance at this moment in view of world affairs. "It betokens a girding on of armor against a pestilential phil­osophy, a stiffening of sinews against a soft sentiment that has received a rude awakening in the revelations of the past months." Social plans alleged leveling of values, concern for the poor, were entering wedges for the banishing of God. Mexico is the sole friend of Russia. Poland and Finland are witnesses to a menace of monstrousness. The easily tol­erant and the intelligentsia have learned that an adventure in the alleviation of human misery has become the destroyer of humanity itself. 
"Spain and France have cast out the loathsome thing. In our own country more and more words have signified the need for religious and democratic forces to join hands in order to save civiliza­tion and Christian culture." The menace that has overnm Poland and is knocking 
at the doors of Germany, the appalling condition of Catholics ^vithin the Reich. and in Austria, demand a union of all men of good will, an immense crusade against a peril equalled in history only by the menace of Islam. 
"Bishop O'Hara has presided over an institution that has always connoted a brave spirit, co-partner in the militancy of the Church. We know him to be a man of peace. Storms may beset him, but his bark is well ballasted. No one can teach others who is not himself taught of God. The light of the sanctu­ary must be lit before you can see its beauties. 
"Jlost Reverend Bishop, . . . You em­body in yourself a truly great institu­tion, an institution based on the rights of persons, oiTering to each an oppor­tunity to develop the gifts which each has received from God. In your selection to the Episcopate this University is hon­ored. You have been part and parcel of its body and soul. You have known the wide ministrations of your Alma Mater. You know they have been neither paro­chial nor seliish. It may not be for you to say, but we here assembled testify to the leaven of Notre Dame, already fer­menting the whole Catholic life of Amer­ica. And now it has a divine discontent in merely turning out Catholic men. It is assuming and fulfilling the larger mis­sion of training Catholic leaders. 
"There is also an 'alumni' which has never entered the portals of Notre Dame Millions call it their own who have never seen it, nor will ever see it. But they have a sort of holy nostalgia for it. And the heart of the multitude always rings true. Many hearts thrill today over this event, sharing in everj' emotion that grows out of the ceremonies. They see the real spirit of Notre Dame loose on another iield, one that is even dearer to them than that which crowds the pages of the daily press. In some deep and mystic way this institution responds to the high cravings of the lowly multi­tudes. And this is a rich asset, not the less real because intangible. 

"And this. Most Reverend Bishop, you can count as a treasure that can neith­er rust nor corrode. Your friends join in fervent prayer that God will give you strength to carry out your work in all its completeness. Even those who have never seen you, or whom you have never seen, are lifting up their prayers this day in thanksgiving and supplication. The nation, one may say, is beseeching a fruitful ministry for you: yea, and other nations as well." 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Bishop 0*Hara Says Goodbye 
Leaving Campus After 31 Years, New Bishop Humbly Thanks All 
Presented at the post - consecration luncheon to the members of the Hier­archy, Monsignori, priests and other friends by the Right Rev. Monsignor D. 
L. Monahan, toastmaster, after His Ex­cellency Archbishop Spellman had paid liim a touching tribute, after Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, acting president of Notre Dame, had presented the re­spect and voiced the love of the alumni and friends, respect and love demon­strated by a generous gift, and after the great audience had given him a soul-stirring ovation as he arose. Bishop O'Hara started his brief, heartfelt re­marks by confessing himself bankrupt when he undertook the task of express­ing his gratitude. 
"Somebody has said that bankruptcy is the proper admission to the House of Bishops," Bishop O'Hara said, "although somebody told me also that Archbishop Spellman and I, in the Diocese Castren­sis, have a unique record of no debt — also, no income, of course. But I need bring no witnesses before you to attest to the fact of bankruptcy. You have seen the kindness of Notre Dame to a poor sinner, and you see the great heart of the Archbishop of New York in wel­coming a timid auxiliarj', and enthron­ing him before he gets there. And what on earth is a man to do under these circumstances? I am quite bankrupt. I say 'thank you,' but that is quite in­adequate. 
"During 31 years' residence here I was impelled by a natural curiosity to see everything going on — every brick that went into every new building on the ground. Because of this, the build­ing trades union of South Bend actually made me a member, and traftsmitted the fact of my membership to New York. Somehow, I couldn't see a new building going up without tramping over it three or four times a day. 
"If it were purely a case of human effort, it would be difficult, impossible, to pay my debt. But it is, after all, a supernatural thing — the Grace of God is there, and, not only that, the King­dom of God is there. Whether it be at Noti'e Dame, in the Army, in Mexico, in the Navy, or anywhere else, there is the Kingdom of God, and I thank God for the opportunity to work in His Kingdom as the lowest of his flock of shepherds. 
"So, goodby Notre Dame, and hello Army and hello Na\-y,' is just simply an opportunity to work in God's Kingdom. 
"I could not begin to thank everyone who has been so kind to me, in kind­nesses not only incident to these conse­ci-ation cei-emonies, but all through my life." Bishop O'Hara referred particu­larly to Bishop Chartrand, who ordained him and others who had been closely associated with him. 
"I could not close without a special word of thanks to Father Bums, here on my right," His Excellency said. "He is the last man who would ever want a word of thanks, but I feel that I should say at this particular time that all the beautiful things that have been said about me during the administration of the last six years should be said of Father Bums, because all I tried to do was to carry out the plans that Father Bums prepared during his administra­tion, and he, in turn, canied out the plans of Father Zahm and other prede­cessors. 
"Just a word of thanks, then, for everybody — and particularly, thanks for the prayers, which I hope ^^•ill be continued, and I assure you of a deep reciprocal obligation on my own part. God bless you." 
PONTIFICAL MASS FOR STUDENTS Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., titular bishop-elect of Milasaand auxiliary bishop of the Army and Navy diocese, celebrated his first solemn pon­tifical Mass in Sacred Heart church, University of Notre Dame, at 6:20 o'clock Tuesday morning, Jan. 16, for the student body. 
In addition to Bishop O'Hara, the celebrant, the following were officers of the mass: Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C, assistant priest; Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, and Rev. Kemdt M. Healy, C.S.C, deacons of honor; Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, deacon; Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C, subdeacon, and Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C, mas­ter of ceremonies. 
A souvenir card containing a picture of Bishop O'Hara was presented to the students attending the Mass as a mem­
orial of the occasion. 

EDITORIAL COMMENT ON BISHOP O'HARA 
FULLY DESERVED 
Elevation of Rev. John P. O'Hara, C.S.C, to the titular bishopric of Milasa, Turkey, and the auxiliary position of head of Catholic religious welfare organization for the United States armed forces causes gratifica­tion and regret but no surprise. It is gratifying that the exceptional talents of the president of the Uni­versity of Noti'e Dame have been given fitting recognition by the su­preme head of the church. The re­gret that he must leave Notre Dame, with which he has been directly af­filiated for 22 years, is tempered, of course, by realization that he is enter­ing a field of more extensive service. Nobody familiar with his personality and his accomplishments can be sur­prised that he is being called to a broader field. The general feeling is that even greater honors embodjring heavier responsibility will be granted him. 
The titular bishopric will not com­pel him to go to Turkey. His depar­ture from Notre Dame will be made necessary by the auxiliary assign­ment to supervise the military wel­fare service. It is belaboring the obvious to remark that he will leave a university that has progressed in ever}' respect under his presidency. As chief administrator of Notre Dame he has manifested unselfish­ness, physical and mental vigor, fore­sight, respect of sound tradition and deep religious sentiment; and the imprint will ever be on the school. Again this true Christian gentleman of high intelligence and modest de­meanor has been given deserved recognition.—South Bend Tribune 
NOTRE DAME LOSES TO 
THE ARMY 
To Easterners Notre Dame Uni­versity is famous chiefly for its foot­ball. To Latin Americans it is famous for its president. Father John 
F. O'Hara, who has traveled exten­sively throughout that area, and,'be­fore he entered the Church, served the United States Government there in a secretarial capacitj'. Now at last the East is to have the chance to learn that Notre Dame's Father O'Hara is as deserving of acclaim as is its football. He is about to move to New York to take over the for the Roman Catholic Church the jurisdic­tion over all the Catholic chaplains in the United States Army. By way of recognition of the importance of this high ofiice the Pope recently named him Titular Bishop of Jlilasa. 

Few men are better fitted for this important work in the army. Father O'Hara combines fine qualities of spiritual leadership with earthly com­mon sense. He is, of course, primar­ily a man of religion, but his early training brought him into practical contact with business men, diplomats and professional people in both con­tinents. At Notre Dame he was at first concerned largely with religious instruction, but his capacity for per­sonal leadership brought him such popularity that when the time came to find a successor to the president who died in 1934 the choice at once fell on him. 
Since then he has had extra­curricular activities, such as serving as one of the delegates to the eighth Pan-American Congi-ess in Lima and on a special mission to Venezuela. His simplicity, directness and practi­cal approaches to problems, together with his encyclopedic knowledge, have made him a valuable member of each mission. 
The fact that he has to resign from the presidency of Notre Dame in order to perform his new duties is, of course, deeply regretted by that institution, with which he has been connected for the last twenty-three years. Not yet fifty-t\vo years of age, he takes up his new work at the height of his powers. It is a large and important field, full of potenti­alities if world conditions grow worse. Notre Dame's loss to the army is compensated by the realization that Father O'Hara will have new oppor­tunities to make his powers felt. 
—New York Herald-Tribune 

BISHOP JOHN F. O'HARA The tribute of His Excellency Archbishop Spellman to His Auxiliary as Oi-dinary of the Army and Navy Diocese will, we are certain, have a joyous echo in the hearts of millions of American who have come to know and love Bishop John F. O'Hara for his great qualities of mind and heart. 
Bishop O'Hara, bom in Jlichigan and reared in Indiana, is as Ameri­can as the flag of our nation; nur­tured in the faith in a home which radiated its spirit, he is as Catholic as the Sign of the Cross. In his thirty-one years of residence and labor at Notre Dame, he has left the impression of his manly character on thousands and tens of thousands of young men who have in turn been a blessed influence on other tens and hundreds of thousands who have never seen the golden dome of the University of Our Lady. 

Quietly, through the years, Bishop O'Hara has been laboring also to foster harmonious relations between the United States and the South American Republics, relations which have been strained often to the breaking point by an utter failure of so many in high places in our nation to realize the necessity of being civil and courteous to South Americans if we wish them to be friendly toward us. With a background of service there in the consular oflice of his father, and with his natural love for his fellowman and his scholarly ap­preciation of the value of cultures not his own. Bishop O'Hara has done at least as much as any other man to bring the relations of South Ameiv ican countries and the United States to their present comparatively happy state. 
A man of peace, intensely and pro­foundly devoted to the Prince of Peace, Bishop O'Hara will labor for the Catholics in the armed forces of the United States. He will labor to bring the Peace of Christ into the hearts of the men, and all who know him know that he will succeed there no less than at Notre Dame. 
Bishop O'Hara does not leave Notre Dame; rather does he bring Notre Dame with him. New York is happy to be able to claim him henceforth, as the devoted Auxiliary of the be­loved Ordinary of the Axmy and Navy Diocese, the Most Reverend Archbishop of New York. His duties will take him far afield, but New York will be his home. And this great metropolitan area will soon con­vince His Excellency, if he does not know it already, that it is a natural habitat for that Spirit of Notre Dame which he so perfectly personifies. Ad Multos .4.nnos. 
^-Catholic News (New York City) 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Blessed Sacrament's Modern Apostle 
Written By Worter of 

The religious side of the life of the 3,279 students actually attending school at the University of Notre Dame is pretty well developed. For besides the prefect of religion and his two priest helpers who devote all of their time pro­moting the spiritual welfare of the stu­dents, there are at least 15 other priests who daily are at the disposal of the students: in the hall chapels during the morning Masses and at the time of night prayer. On Sundays and holydays dur­ing the students' Masses in the main church, and whenever services are held there, there are at least four priests in the regular confessionals. There is also a priest-prefect on every iioor in the dormitory halls. 
Was it ever thus? No. At Notre Dame, as elsewhere, it was the accepted idea that to go to Communion often, one must already be a saint. After the de­cree of Pius X on frequent Communion, there was only a slight change in the old custom; but it was only six years later when a young priest full of ardor and zeal tried to make his dream come through, tried to make Notre Dame a place where Our Lord in the Blessed Sacrament would be loved and adored, that a real change took place. 
The beginnings were not easy; there was opposition, criticism, and also the false notion that to go to Communion frequently was to be lacking in proper respect. In spite of all, this young priest, with the oil of ordination still moist on his hands, went to work. 
It was to be a side issue for him, as he had his regular quota of classes to teach besides prefecting. He first held forth in his small room in Walsh Hall. There the students would drop in dur­ing the evening and sometimes he would send for them or have some other stu­dents bring them along. In the morn­ings and after supper in the evenings he would be hearing confessions in the basement chapel, and during the services in the upper church he enlisted a few priests to help him with the confessions. The progress was slow compared with the efforts put forth; but the apostle of the Blessed Sacrament was not dis­couraged. 
After a few years, he was given for an office a room close to a chapel and 
a Priest Co­ Bishop O'Hara 
there the students came freely to be helped, not only in spiritual matters, but in class difficulties and in disciplinary entanglements; he even played the part of the physician often. They- came to have their troubles settled by him who had made himself their confidant and advocate. 
His day began at 4:30 in the early hours of morning, and with no class to teach in the forenoon, his job was to hear confessions, give Communion, and to dispense advice until noon, very pa­tient and considerate, always forgetting himself. The old leather chair -had its arms open for the first comer about four in the afternoon, and oftentimes at 10 
p.m. there were students visiting on the stairway waiting to be heard. 
Some heavy sleepers were awakened by him for the early Masses, and to reach those who did not come for their own spiritual benefits he would send out cards. He even founded a newspaper wherein he gave a course in Christian Doctrine and religious education, to­gether with his opinions on vital topics of the day; and later on he compiled a I'early religious report. 
Success crowned his efforts. The stu­dents went to Communion frequently; many went daily. And from only a few communicants, back in 1916, the num­ber of communicants mounted to — ac­cording to the chart at the entrance to the basement chapel — 339,292 for the schoolyear 1937-38 of 231 days, making the daily average 1469 com­municants. For the year 1938-39, 232 days, 336,926 Communions were received for a daily average of 1465. Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament with voluntary adoration on the part of the students was first inaugurated on the First Fri­day of the month; then it was extended to take in the entire month of October. Later, adoration took in the whole of Lent, and exposition of the Blessed Sac­rament was observed during the novena for parents before the Christmas recess. The visits to the Grotto became a cus­tom, and the students petitioned for a community singing of a few hymns to Our Lady every evening after supper during the month of May. 
This zealous and hard-working priest did all this and much more with the help of a few co-workers. He was loved and admired by all the students and he is responsible for the great spiritual devel­opment of Notre Dame. 
His work as a spiritual director, more than that of any other ofiice he has held, is written with indelible ink and his name is written in the annals of the University in letters of gold. 
The Holy Father, recognizing the worth of this priest and his untiring zeal, has called him to work in another field, and has bestowed the honor and dignity of successor of the Apostles on the Apostle of the Blessed Sacrament, Father O'Hara. 
Farewell To TKe 


Students 
Bishop Writes Final Religious Bulletin 

Bishop John P. O'Hara, C.S.C, ^v^ote his farewell to Notre Dame students in the January 13 issue of the daily Reli­gious Bulletin, which he started more than IS years ago when he was prefect of religion at the University. 
Under the heading "Goodbye, Boys, God Bless You," he wrote: 
"The typewriter is a bit rusty from disuse, and perhaps the fingers move more slowly than they once did, but the heart begs the prefect of religion for a chance to do one more Bulletin before the separation. 
"Shall it be done in retrospect? The mind wanders back easily, especially in the familiar surroundings of the Sorin Hall tower, with chains and medals all around, with the old San Xavier picture on the wall, and the blessing of Pope Pius XI, and in the drawer on the left the purple stole that is stained with the chrism of ordination and the tears of penitents. Yes, the mind can picture a line of penitents at the door, waiting to tell a story of 10 years or 10 hours— that will turn a soul from death to life, that will empower a boy once more to smile from his heart. 
"Yes, retrospect is easy, especially when in three decades of work with Notre Dame men you can't recall one who was really evil. Retrospect is pleas­ant when you know that thousands of penitents have gone out with resolutions 
The Notre Dame Alumnus JJ5 



Father Hugh O'Donnell New N. D. President 
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., '23, Acting Vice-Presi­dent; Rev. Kerndt Healy, C.S.C., '15, and Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C, 'II, Moved Up In Communrly Changes 
Rev. John Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, Litt.B. '16, Ph.D., vice-preiiident of the University since 1934, has become act­ing president until the formal appoint­ment of a president of the University by the Provincial Chapter of the Con-
strong enough to -withstand temptations, when you know that daily Communion has turned good intentions into good deeds, has made weak infants into strong men, and strong men into saints of God. Retrospect is inspiring when the priest, poor, weak mortal like anyone of you, learns daily lessons in humility from the great-hearted men who kneel to him who takes God's place in their lives. 
"But retrospect, while pleasant to nodding old men, is useful to your spir­itual growth only so far as it gives you pitfalls to avoid and good example to emulate. 
"Your problem is of the present and of the future. It is yours to say whether Notre Dame shall be for your brother and your children's children, the Shrine of Our Blessed Lady, the haven of peace it has been to you. 
"The one thing that can insure your happiness, the one thing that can keep Notre Dame a holy place of goodness and clean fun, is the supernatural spirit of sacrifice. You will iind happiness only in what you do for others — for God, or for your neighbor. Even the personal quest of salvation, to which you are obliged by justice and charity, gives the greatest happiness when you forget yourself in the love of God. 
"Daily Communion is the food of sac­riiJce—^never let its tradition weaken or fade. Daily Mass is the sacred core of sacrifice. Daily visits to Mary, the Mother of God — at the Grotto, telling your beads, in a goodnight smile to the Lady of the Dome — these means of grace keep you close to God. 
"To the students of today and to­morrow I entrust Notre Dame. 
"Goodbye, boys. God bless you." 
gregation of Holy Cross in July of 1940. Father O'Donnell, monogram football man and original Glee Club member in 
his undergraduate days, entered the priesthood after graduation from Notre Dame. He studied at Catholic Univer­sity, where he took his Ph.D. in Church history. He has taught at Notre Dame in subsequent years, but has stood out through his entire career as an execu­tive. 
In 1922, Father O'Donnell returned to Notre Dame as teacher, and rector of Badin Hall. In 1923 he was made 
Father Hugh O'Donnell 

prefect of discipline, a post he filled until 1931. Under his direction, the oifice asumed the proportions of a clear­ing house for student activities, and Father O'Donnell was more the patron of student activities than their censor. 
He was appointed president of St. Ed­ward's University in Austin, Texas, in 1931 and served in that capacity until he returned in 1934 to act as vice-president of Notre Dame under Father O'Hara. Much of the freedom which Father O'Hara's nature and program demanded was made possible by the ex­perience and ability of his next-in-com­mand. 
Father O'Donnell has always been a jealous guardian of the welfare of Notre Dame. It is in keeping with his long record of loyalty and devotion that he h ^ stated of his administration: ". . . With the loyal support of the ad­ministration, faculty, alumni and stu­dents, I shall try to carry out his [Father O'Hara's] program for the ad­vancement of all departments of the University, in accordance with the tra­ditions of the founder. Father Sorin, and his noble successors in the ofSce of the presidency...." 
In Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, as acting vice-president, the University enjoys many advantages. Father Cava­naugh was active as a student, heading the S.A.C. during the trying days of the post-war adjustment, the day-dog overflow, the famous Greek era in eat­ing, the Endowment campaign, etc. He, like Father O'Donnell, was through school, in fact was launched on a most promising business career, when his vo­cation brought him back to the Univer­sity. It will not seem strange if the similarity of name with that former great president of Notre Dame finds even more familiar echoes in the new administrator, who served as secretary while a student, under the beloved elder Father John. Father Cavanaugh has already given indication of the solicitude of the new admimstration for the stu­dent, by opening for student counsel the familiar tower room in Sorin, so long the capital of Father O'Hara's religious kingdom of the campus. 
Replacing Father Cavanaugh as as­sistant provincial, is Rev. Kerndt Healy, C.S.C, '15, and assuming the duties of assistant superior of the Congregation at Notre Dame, is Rev. Charles C. Milt­ner, C.S.C., '11, dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
Alumni divided their sentiments on January 15 between affection and re­gard for the Bishop, and affection and loyalty to the new administration, feel­ing that in both moves, .Notre Dame has again enjoyed the special blessings which constantly challenge the devotion of Notre Dame and all Notre Dame men. 
Clerical Alumni Aid 

Consecration 
35 Ceremonial Officers Emphasize Rich Rites 
The titles of the 35 ceremonial officers of the consecration Mass are an index to the richness of the Consecration rites. 

Consecrators: Most Eev. Francis J. Spellman, D.D., archbishop of New York. Coconsecrators: Most Eev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind., and Most Rev. Joseph E. Ritter, D.D., bishop of Indianapolis. 
Masters of ceremonies: Rev. William 

R. Connor, C.S.C, Rev. Francis J. Wen­ninger, C.S.C., Rev. Joseph R. McAl­ister, C.S.C, and Rev. Christopher O'Toole, C.S.C. 
Assistant priest to Archbishop Spell-man: Eight Rev. John J. Casey, N.Y.C. 
Assistant deacons: Right Rev. Ray­mond E. Noll, Indianapolis, and Right Rev. Thomas M. Conroy, Fort Wayne. 
Deacon: Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C. Subdeacon: Rev. C. C. Miltner, C.S.C. Miti-e-bearer: Rev. George Baldwin, 

C.S.C. Notary: Rev. Norbert C. Hoff. Subdeacon of the processional cross: Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C. Crozier-bearer: Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C. Book-bearer: Rev. Leo W. Gorman, C.S.C. Bugia-bearer: Rev. Edward Shea, C.S.C. Phaplains to Bishop Noll: Rev: Mich­ael Shea, Ossining, N. Y., and Rev. Charles J. Feltes, Fort Wayne. Master of the gospel book: Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C. Gift bearers: Rev. Otto Keller, Mish­awaka; Rev. Joseph A. Maguire, C.S.C; Rev. Francis A. aearj', Danville, 111.; Rev. James Gallagan, C.S.C.,; Rev. George J. Marr, C.S.C, and Rev. Thom­as P. Irving, C.S.C. Chaplains to Bishop-Elect John F. O'Hara: Eev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C, and Eev. Edward Keller, C.S.C. Mitre-bearer to Bishop-Elect O'Hara: Eev. Charles Williams, Piper City, 111. Crozier - beai-er to Bishop - Elect O'Hara: Eev. John Burke, C.S.C. Ring-bearer: Eev. B. Motsett, Peoria. Birettum-bearer: Rev. Thomas Kelly, CS.C. Chaplains to Bishop Ritter: Rev. James Hickey, Indianapolis, and Rev. Richard Sullivan, C.S.C 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Universal Notre Dame Night April 15 
It*s a little early for general detailed announcement, but not too soon for the Clubs to begin individual planning for the I7th Annual Universal Notre Dame Night, Monday, April 15, 1940. 
The Notre Dame Club of Detroit has been selected by the Univer­sity as the key center from which will emanate, according to present plan, a national radio program of universal interest. 
The Alumni Office will again glady cooperate to the best of its ability in securing speakers, mo­vies, script for local radio pro­grams, music, lists of alumni, parents of students, etc. 
History shows us a high stand­ard of activity and a steadily rising tide in this annual tribute. In the beginning of a new decade, at the verge of the Centennial, we are confident that this trend will be accelerated. 



Friends Present Crozier and Purse 
George O'Brien, '93, Heads Committee in Generous Tribute 
Time was so short, and technicalities of solicitation so complex, that the prob­lem of manifesting to Bishop O'Hara the affection and esteem of his fellow-alumni and friends was finally vested in a Committee of Friends of Bishop O'Hara. The letter announcing the project of the Committee, the purchase of a suitable crozier, was sent to all the presidents of Local Alumni Clubs, many classmates, former students, and per­sonal friends. Undoubtedly many were missed. 
'But the reponse was so generous, the tribute so great, that in addition to the beautiful crozier, pictured in this issue. 
the Committee was able to have Father Hugh O'Donnell present a handsome purse at the luncheon following the conseci-ation. 
Heading the Committee was George 

L. O'Brien, '93, South Bend. Bernard 
J. Voll, '17, South Bend, was treasurer. Members included Byron V. Kanaley, '04, Chicago; William E. Cotter, '13, New York; Clyde E. Broussard, '13, Beaumont, Texas; Angus D. McDonald, '00, San Francisco; John H. Neeson, '03, Philadelphia; Ambrose A. O'Con­nell, '07, Washington, D. C ; John P. Murphy, '12, Cleveland, and Joseph -A.. LaFortune, '18, Tulsa, Okla. 
Milasa a Town of 13,000 Souls in Turkey 
Milasa is a town in Smyrna Vilayet, Turkey, and is situated 85 miles south­east of Smyrna city. It is on the site of ancient Mylasa and has a population of about 13,000. Its chief industry is the manufacture of carpets. The town is sit­uated in a fertile plain near a mountain abounding in white marble of fine va­riety. It was here that a temple was dedicated to Augustus Caesar and the goddess of Rome. 
The temple, which stood for not many years, had six columns in front; 22 col­umns altogether. Milasa had ornate pub­lic buildings, especially temples. It was so adorned with these that a certain mu­sician once entered the agora or market place as if he intended to issue a procla­mation and used the words "hear ye temples" instead of "hear ye people." At one time Milasa was credited with hav­ing bad air and an abundance of scor­pions. The name has various spellings: Milas, Milassa, Mylasa, Mylassa and Milasa. 
WORE CHASUBLE OF PIUS XII 

The chasuble which Bishop O'Hara / wore when he was consecrated was also ; worn by Pope Pius XII when he was consecrated a Bishop, and it was worn likewise by Archbishop Spellman when he in turn was raised to the dignity of a successor of the Apostles. The episco­pal ring used in the ceremony was an amethyst of the late Bishop Joseph Char­trand of Indianapolis, a warm friend of Bishop O'Hara and the Bishop who or­dained him. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 




McMahon Directs Pittsburgh Area Placement 
Work, Started Recently, Lays Emphasis on Per­sonal Interview; Principal Aim is "To Help Applicant Help Himself; Professional Activity Recommended 
In the November ALUSINUS we cen­tered our placement attention on the New York City and the New Jersey clubs. In December we hopped across to Chicago. Now, for February, we are back to the Westera Pennsylvania club, in the Pittsburgh area, where John F. McMahon, '28, is doing the same sort of resultful job as are John Balfe; Har­vey Rockwell, and Ed O'Toole, of New York, Newark, and Chicago, respec­tively. 
John brings to the placement work in his club a wide background of sound experience and widespx-ead contacts, as well as a generous and sacrificing spirit. He was for several years on the editorial staff of the New York Sun, then assist­ant director of publicity for Columbia University, New York City, and, later, night editor of the Associated Press in Pittsburgh. Now he is executive assist­ant in the Air Hygiene Foundation of America, Inc. in the Mellon Institute, Pittsburgh. 
PLACEMENT HELP NEEDED 
All alumni can, of course, provide major placement help throughout the year by referring to their local place­ment chairman, or to the Alumni Of­fice, any job openings, in their own organizations or elsewhere. 
In addition, wherever they belong to organizations which annually send personnel representatives to the col­leges to interview seniors, these alum­ni can be instrumental in having such personnel men stop at Notre Dame. The Placement Bureau in the Alumni Office, directed by William R. Dool­ey, '26, has complete records, with pictures, of all seniors who have asked for placement assistance. Mr. Dooley will be glad to provide the records, as well as interview rooms, for industrial representatives. 
Better cut out this note and show it to your personnel department to­morrow! 
_ 
In directing placement activities in the Pittsburgh district John is, of course, following out the wishes of the direc­tors of the Alumni Association that the present Association year should see spe­cial emphasis laid upon placement. The foUo-iving letter was written by him to Director Edward F. O'Toole, who was asked by President Hilgartner to assume an advisoiy supervision of the Associa­tion's placement program: 
"Our acti\'ities were started, at least on a formal basis, about three months ago when John Ryan, club president, asked me to help out in the local place­ment work. I have always been inter­ested in this sort of thing. My proced­ure is the soul of simplicity. 

"First, I ask the applicant to come in for a talk. I encouraged him to 'tell all.' (When a personal call is impossible I ask the applicant to write everything about liimself, his experience and ambitions.) In fact even when the applicant can come in for a talk I ask him to follow up with such a letter. This serves the pui-pose of the application form about which you asked. 
"There ai'e two reasons for insisting on the interview. It gives you an op­portunity to recharge the boy's battery. I try to send him away like Rock used to send the team back on the field after the half. Getting the applicant's story first-hand will spai-k ideas, leads, possible approaches, etc. I send him out with something of a program. This program not only covers places and people but it includes visits to the library for the reading of trade papers, business jour­nals, etc. Such publications give a job-hunter ideas and leads of his own, and, by Euppljing some specific information, help take him out of the 'I'll do any­thing* class. As I told Dooley and Ryan, the best I can hope to do is to help the applicant help himself. If we can do no more than supply an objective analysis of a comrade's case, together with con­crete suggestions, we can, I am con­vinced, accomplish great good. Looking for a job can be a harrowing experience. The applicant, feeling himself 'on the 
spot,' may get panicky. His own judg­ment isn't always the best at a time like that. 
"I don't send out any bulletins, cir­culars, etc. Whenever possible I call an executive in some local firm where I may be acquainted and endeavor to arrange an interview for the applicant—granted of course that the applicant seems to fit 
John F. McMahon, '28 

in with some particular company where I may have a contact. The executive will usually cooperate by helping the applicant meet the proper people in the organization. So you see I handle each case on a rather personal basis. That would probably be impractical if we had the number of applicants which come your way. So far the number has been small. 
"Speaking of circulars, however, sometimes urge the applicant to work up a terse, attratcive presentation of his case. Experience has shown repeatedly that such presentations, when well do'ne, can be very helpful. For instance, they 
(Continued on Page 143) ' •'^' '" '•" 

» »


SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI 
JOHN A. LEMMER, '18, even in his campus days was accomplishing big things: he was president of his senior class and its valedictorian, \vinner of the Breen Medal for oratory, a member of the debating team and an editor of the Scholastic. As superintendent of schools in Escanaba, Michigan, and a leading citizen generally in his commun­ity's affairs, he is continuing, 21 years later, at the same inspiring pace. 
John was an ensign in the United States Navy and a teacher at Columbia University ( now the University of Port­land) , Portland, Oregon, before he went back to the "home town," Escanaba, in dent of the Holy Name Society; presi­dent of the Rotary Club; vice-command­er of the American Legion. On the pro­fessional side, he's been president of the Michigan Department of High School Principals, and he's secretary of the '18 class. 
Brother VICTOR F. LEMMER, '26, adhered to the best Lemmer tradition: he was a member of the varsity debating team for three years and won the junior oratorical contest; he sang in and was, in successive years, business manager and president of the Glee Club; and he played in the University orchestra. And 
THE LEMMER BROTHERS OF MICHIGAN 
John, '18 

1921 to teach in the Escanaba High school. He was appointed principal of the high school in 1925 and superintend­ent of the Escanaba schools in 1935. Meanwhile, he had won his M.A. at the University of Michigan and attended both the University of Oregon and Co­lumbia University, New York City. For several years he was a member of the faculty at the Notre Dame Summer Ses­sion, teaching education. His wife—John and Emily Cripps were married in 1927 —did summer graduate work on the campus for five years. 
John's "extra curricular" activities in Escanaba have been many and varied: he's been grand knight and district dep­uty of the Knights of Columbus; presi-. 
Victor, .'26 

all this was in addition to a full pro­gram as teacher and prefect in the Min­ims (grade school department, then a part of the campus), not to mention a regular Lemmer schedule in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Now, Vic is putting this plenteous ex­perience to the best of use in his new position as coordinator of the State So­cial Welfare Department of Michigan, with headquarters in Lansing. He re­tains, however, his official residence in Ironwood, far in the northern peninsula, where he is secretary of the Gogebic Industrial Bureau and operates a gen­eral insurance business. He was chosen in August, 1939, for the particularly arduous duty of coordinating the com­plex welfare machinery of the state be­cause of his intimate knowledge of gov­ernmental finance; he had been auditor of Gogebic County, Michigan, from May, 1931 to January, 1939. 
Vic, a native of Escanaba, taught school and worked for the William Boni­fas Lumber Company for several years before he came to Notre Dame. He re­turned to the Bonifas Company upon his graduation, but left it in 1929 to form his own insurance organization. He is a member of the Municipal Officers Asso­ciation, Rotary International, the Elks, Eagles and Knights of Columbus. He and his wife (the former Beatrice Boyce of St. Mary's) are the parents of three sons and a daughter. 
The Lemmer Trophy, awarded each year to the -ivinner of the interhall de­bating contest, is Vic's gift to the Wranglers, sponsor of the contest. 
MICHAEL L. FANSLER, back in the days of 1901-05, was one of the top foot­ball players at Notre Dame and a team­mate of the storied Red Salmon. Now he is, and has been since 1933, a judge of the Supreme Court of Indiana. The ALUMNUS is happy to present him to you again as one of Indiana's most em­inent citizens. 
When the young Mike Fansler left Notre Dame in 1905 he was admitted to the practice of law in his home town of Logansport, Indiana, and went to 
(Continued on Page 143) 
Michael L. Faniler, '05 

The Alumni Association's Finances 
By Henry C. Wurzer. '25 Vice-President of the Association 

(Written at the Request of President Hilsartner) 
<  At the November meeting of the  
Board of Directors of the Alumni Asso­ 
ciation, two points in our financial pro­ 
gram stood out.  
1. We are not paying our own way.  
2. We have a program which merits  
4  the adequate support of the membership,  
and which, if understood thoroughly,  
would undoubtedly achieve this.  
It was generally acknowledged that  
members of the Association have not  
been' fully aware of the activities and  
problems of the Association as a na­ 
tional organization. Mr. Hilgartner as­ 
signed to the officers and directors a  
study of the development of the Associa­ 
tion program, together with some of its  
immediate problems. We feel that an  
open discussion will bring about the  
necessary cooperation on the part of the  
^  members.  
To me, the study of the financial side  
of the Association was assigned. To  
write, read, or exhort about financial  
matters is more or less distasteful. Nev­ 
ertheless, if the broad program studied  
by the Board and planned by the Asso­ 
ciation is to be carried out, to your sat­ 
^  jsfaction and benefit and' credit, our  
financial situation must be referred to  
and brought into the open.  
Ordinarily, an association is only as  
strong and as prominent as its activities  
among its own membership, and its iden­ 
tification with similar asociations. Notre  
Dame has been more active and more  
prominent in these respects than the  
financial status warrants. Its own rec­ 
ords speak for this. Remarkable prog­ 
ress and definite aid has been forming  
through the Placement Bureau. The  
ALUMNUS is one of the strong magazines  
•*  in its category. National professional  
alumni organizations have recognized  
our •Alumni Secretary and other Notre  
Dame alumni in their offices and conven­ 
tion programs. Further, the Alumni As­ 
sociation has manifested a great deal of  
interest and assistance to our Local  
''"  Clubs in their own activities, provided  
prominent speakers, and arranged worth  
while and successful local programs.  
All of these activities cost money, and  
have been possible only because of finan­ 
cial assistance o.utside the membership  

of the Alumni Association. We feel sure that realization of this fact on the part of our members will lead to a re­sponse in contributions so necessary and vital to the continuation of our activities. 
The feeling of the officers and the Board of the National Association is that we have the finest, most unified group of alumni of any similar organiza­tion among the colleges and universities in the country. The reason we have our financial problem is because of the fact that you have not been properly and fully impressed with the situation and the problem. It is our hope that with this article, this problem, which is not too acute, can and will be readily rem­edied. 
Our Association has an active lay membership potential of 8,278 men, who 
YOUNG CLASSES LEAD 

Payments (under the new system of voluntary contributions of SI up) for 1939-40, as of De­cember SO. 1939. 
Class  Eligible to Pay*  Paid  %Paid  
1939  604  236  .468  
1938  494  199  .400  
1937  422  152  .360  
193S  424  113  .266"  
1935  475  129  .271»«  
1934  502  137  .272««  
1933  494  132  .267*»  
1932  474  137  .Z89««  
1931  440  122  .277«*  
1930  396  97  .245««  
1929  451  118  .260»«  
1928  448  102  .227««  
1927  348  102  .293"  
192S  264  79  .299"  
1925  298  94  .315  
1924  234 •  70  .299"  
1923  155  61  .393  
1922  148  59  .398  
1921  S3  35  .421  
1920  80  30  .375  
1919  43  11  .255"  
1918  60  22  .366  
1917  102  39  .382  
1916  75  27  .360  
1915  64  26  .406  
1914  80  28  .350  
1913  66  22  .333  
1912  55  21  .381  
1911  62  20  .322  
1910  35  13  .371  
BGIOFC  
1910  502  164  .326  

8,278 2,596 .313 

* Those classified thus are the active lay alumni, who receive the ALUIIKUS regularly, and are billed. 
•• Below the genera] average. 
receive the ALUMNUS, and are asked an­nually for contributions. Only 2,596, or 31%, have made any contribution this year (to December 31. See chart in this article). 
The amount of these contributions is purely voluntary, from | 1 upward. How­ever, those 2,596 who did think enough of the Association or who took the few minutes required to send a check, con­tributed an average of approximately ?3.75 each. 
This total contribution, roundly $9,800, has to carry on the broad pro­gram of the Association, a Secretary, assistant, clerical staff, the ALUMNUS Placement, travel, an extensive records system of increasing value and use, and many details difficult to define in a broad program but very tangible and hence part of our expenditures. 
It goes without saying that the amount is totally inadequate for the purposes. To carry out our present program properly requires a fund vir­tually twice the above amount. 
The per capita contribution is not criticized. But we must have more mem­ber support. Your Association cannot reasonably be expected to maintain for­ever a 100% activity on a 31% contrib­uting membership. 
To the majority of us, who spent four years at Notre Dame, the training and the awarding of our degree marked the cornerstone of our mature lives. We look to and point with pride to the ac­complishments of a Bishop O'Hara, a "Pat" Manion, a Father Nieuwland, an Angus McDonald, as our fellow-aluinni. Yet, unfortunately, many of us let fall to others the small burden of paying the cost of the Alumni Asodation of which our Notre Dame heritage makes us all members. 
How long could your golf, or athletic club, or fraternal organization at home exist with only 31% of its members pay­ing anything toward its upkeep? We would not long remain identified with an organization with such a record. Your Board of Directors feels'that most" certainly yon want to remain identified with your only official channel of con­
(Contlnned on Pae« 143) 

STUDENT NOTES 
(The conductor of this department on this trip. Bill Fay has, in notable qual­ity and quantity, combined scholastic a^:hievement, . journalistic achievement and athletic achievement. A "cum laude" student, he lias been for three years the University's leading tennis player and one of the "Scholastic's" main props. Within a week last spring he was chosen editor-in-chief of the 19S9-iO "Scholas­tic" and captain of the tennis team, won the state tennis championship in the singles and the Richard Reid prize of $50 for Hie best letter of "correction and commendation" to the editor of a news­paper. Bill's home is in Mt. Lebanon, Pa., suburb of Pittsburgh.) 
DECEMBER 10 Supreme Knight Francis P. Matthews, K.S.G., delivered a militant argument for Columbianism before a full West Dining Hall to climax a record day dur­ing which local Knights initiated 124 candidates for degrees. Justice Michael 
L. Pansier, '05, of the Supreme Court of Indiana, was another principal speak­er. The then vice-president of the TJni­versitrj'. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, welcomed Supreme Knight Matthews to the University and outlined Notre Dame's close connection with the Order. 
Eli Abraham, '34, the "grand old man" of Local No. 1477, and state chairman of the Columbian Squires, was the toastmaster. Joe Gerwe, '40, of Minneapolis, was the able and person­able general chairman and Tim King, '37, Law '40, Niles Ohio, grand knight of the Notre Dame Council, presided magnificently as the official host for the day. 
* 

DECEMBER IS Howard defeated Morrissey in the final round of the ihterhall debate tour­nament, sponsored annually by the Wranglers, campus forensic society. It was Howard's fourth win of the large silver trophy; both Morrissey and Brownson have won twice in the eight years of competition. 
• Jack Walsh, Redding, Calif., Jack Burke, Sioux Palls, S. Dak., and Fred Holl, Honesdale, Pa., scored for How­ard; Robert Coleman, Shaker Heights, Ohio, Neil McCarty, Kaukauna, Wis., and Roger Young, Providence, R. I., de­lated for Morrissey. 
By WILLIAM C FAY. "40 

DECEMBER 16 
Many a heart was longing and many a tongue was parched as the sphere of humanity that is Donald C. Gilliland (Jefferson Citj', Mo.) rolled his 300 pounds across the Washington Hall stage in a nostalgic interpretation of the i-ole of "Fat Dutchy," barkeep in the University Players' presentation of "Brother Orchid." There was a little of Matt's and Howell's in his every gesture. Seldom has a student thespian brought gi'eater sincerity to a role, or met with a more appreciative audience. 
Jerry FIjTin (Rochester, N. Y.) stood up to the dual role of Little John Sarto, alias Brother Orchid, ^\'ith the breezy assurance that has made him a Wrang­ler, a debater, head cheerleader, and boss of '40 politics. -A.S Sarto, a Chicago racketeer—Met clubbers might consider that tautology—^he talks out of the side of his mouth to such interesting charac­ters as Dum-Dum (John Coppinger, Brooklyn, N. Y.) and The Gimp (Tom Teai-ney, Chicago). He is taken for a ride, but escapes to hide out in a Flor­entine Monastei-y where he disguises himself as Brother Orchid, raises flow­ers with Brothers Nasturtium (William Mulvey, Erie, Pa.), Hollyhock (Edward Hayden, Chicago), and Geranium (How­ard Essick, Fairview, Pa.). 
The play was adapted from Richard Coiuiell's Collier's story of the same name, and was directed by Father Mat­thew Coyle. 
DECEMBER 17 
Professor William J. Coyne, head of the Department of Speech, named his 1940 varsity debate team—^Albert Funk, La Crosse, Wis, Milton Williams, Elk­hart, Ind., William Meier, Faulkton, S. Dak., and Thomas Grady, Farmer City, 
m. 
The debaters open their season at the North Manchester, Ind., tournament, Feb. 23-24; then compete at Iowa City, March 1-3. The annual Madison, Wis., tournament may be passed over this year, in order to send the team east during the Easter holidays. 
DECEMBER 18 
Anthony Maloney, freshman track star from New York City, was elected class president after a wild vote scramble —one party promised unequivocally to produce Ann Sheridan at the '41 Sopho­more Cotillion. George Dreier, vice-president from Oakland, Calif., Gail Fitch, secretary from Oak Park, HI., and Fred Neagle, treasurer from Orange, 
N. J., rode home on the Maloney band­wagon. Five hundred votes were cast and nobody got hurt. 
Five of the nineteen students- who spoke briefly before the Wranglers, campus forensic society, were elected to member'ship after a secret "ballot. Stanley Litizzette, Helper, Utah; John O'Lough­lin, Bangor, Maine; Daniel Sullivan, New York City; John MacCauley, New York City; and John Burke, Sioux Falls, S. Dak., were the successful appli­cants. 
Dec. 19 — Christmas vacation began. 

Jan. 4 — Classes resumed. A few graduates of the last tliree years will be interested in this item from Frank Wem­hoff's "Week" in the Scholastic.... 
". . . the usually sedate and sluggish Ray Sadlier exhibited a little of the old frontier spirit when he arrived at the South Bend station. Ray was in such a hurry to get out to school that he jumped into the path of the first cab to pull into the surb. The force struck the Atlasish fellow mightly but Ray bi-ought the cab to a halt by a skidding twenty-five foot tackle. Interviewed later by a scout of the Chicago Bears, Sadlier admitted, 'I guess I was just a little hydraulic at the time.'" 
JANUARY IS AND 16 
Bishop John F. O'Hara was conse­crated. The following morning students crowded Sacred Heart Church to the choir loft as Bishop O'Hara celebrated his first pontifical Mass. Commented The Scholastici "The lights have gone out in the tower room nearest the doors of Sacred Heart Church . . . they may not be lit again in our generation." 
JANUARY 16 
Dean H. Mitchell, Hammond, Ind., president of the Northern Indiana Pub­lic Service Company, talked to the public utilities classes, starting at 4:15 and taking on all comers among the ques­tioners. At 6:30, Mr. Mitchell and some of his questioners had to be parted, re­luctantly, so that he could eat dinner before the Butler-Notre Dame basket­ball game. 
Jan. 19 — Father Carrico posted the final examination schedule and the tem­ature dropped to 15 below zero. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
By Joseph S. Petrib. '32 
Director of Athletic Publicity 




ATHLETICS 
BASKETBALL 
Well, sirs, it's just like we were say­ing. We wouldn't bet a sou on Coach George Keogan's's basketball teams in December, but we wouldn't lay a her-man against 'em in January. Or (has­tily) at any other time, for that matter. 
To the date of this writing, the Irish had won eight games out of 12 played. Three of the lickings were bad, four of them came in a row, and only one of the victories has been close so far. All of this adds up to one of the most amazing seasons we've seen yet. 
Notre Dame's material didn't look too promising before the season opened, and warm-up victories over Kalamazoo, Valparaiso, and Cincinnati -were unim­pressive because of the class of compe­tition met. Then came a surprising 51 to 33 victory over a strong Wisconsin team, and the future looked rosy. 
But, ^vith Eddie Riska playing the game almost single-handed at Ann Arbor, making 23 points, runner-up to Johnny Moir's single game record of 25, the rest of the lads took a nap, and Michigan won, 41 to 39. Michigan has a fine team of opportunists, four little fellows, held together by Captain Jim Rae, as smooth a center as you'd want 
— but there were still too many balls lost on interceptions, bad passes, and carelessness, and too many shots missed, particularly during a 10- or 12-minute period in the second half. 
Southern California, which may prove to be the greatest team in the country, had little trouble smacking our heroes around, 55 to 38. Their total was the second highest ever scored against a Keogan-coached team at Notre Dame, and the margin of 17 points represents the fifth biggest edge anyone has gained on a Keogan team. That gives an idea of how effective the S.C. boys were and how dark it looked for Notre Dame at that stage of the season. 
Then Illinois rubbed it in, 42 to 29, and Northwestern took the Dec. 30 game by a comfortable 47 to 37 mar^n. There were some extenuating circum­stances surrounding the former game. The mini skipped Christmas vacation, returning to practice Dec. 23 for the Dec. 27 game. Notre Dame played Southern California Dec. 22, and dis­banded until Dec. 26. The Illinois floor has always been tough for Notre Dame teams. 
There were few if any excuses to be offered after the first Northwestern game, except that the Wildcats had a very talented young center in Sopho­more Dick Klein, -who made 21 points. The Irish lost the ball repeatedly without shooting, the Wildcats were compara­tively hot, but at the same time they were comparatively unmolested. 
Before shifting to the happy ending, let's review the material. Eddie Eiska, a stocky, solid Chicago junior, scored 200 points last year, and he has 141 already this year, but he's not an in­stinctive basketball player — in fact there isn't one on the whole squad. Ac­customed to a zone defense, he hadn't mastered Keogan's shifting man-for­man design at this ivriting. He has re­fused to shoot from the floor, probably because he is so successful under the hoop. He is unsurpased for courage, doggedness, and drive that it takes to get under the net. 
George Sobek, built along Eiska lines, is a sophomore. He was tight and over­cautious in early games, right through the slump in fact. Since then he has hit his true stride. So effective is his shoulder fake before he starts a dribble that twice officials have called steps on him before he moved either foot. He has a fine scoring eye, and Eiska's tjrpe of courage. 
Captain Mark Ertel, 6-foot 4-inch cen­ter, looked like the most improved pivot man in the country against Wisconsin, after two years of so-so play. He hit the skids with the rest of them, how­
1940 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
Oct. S—College of PaciHc at N. D. Oct 12—Georgia Tech at N. D. Oct. 19—Carnegie Tech at N. D. Oct. 26—Illinois at Champaign Nov. 2—^Army at New York Nov. 9—Navy at Baltimore Nov. 16—Iowa at N. D. Nov. 23—Northwestern at Evanston Dec. 7—So. Cal, at Los Angeles 

ever, failing to use his height for follow­up shots and rebounds. In fact, he looked pretty terrible until Keogan ad­vanced Rex Ellis to the starting spot. Ellis responded by getting 12 points off Syracuse. And Ertel responded to that by averaging 10 points in the next three games, early portions of •which he ob­served from the bench. Ellis looks clumsy, can't see too well, misses a lot of set-up shots, and gets fooled occa­sionally on defense. But he has a heart as big as a house, and he's the only man on the squad -who's a natural barber. He talks all the time, during time out periods, while the ball is in play, and to himself while Ertel is in action. His leadership has done much to steady the 
team since the December crisis. 

Gene Klier, a husky senior, plays a clever defensive game, and early in the season he was flicking (we use the word advisedly) long shots home consistently. His work on the microscope in metal­lurgy courses has weakened his eyes, we're told, and with no one but Riska scoring, Keogan had to drop Gene to the alternate group. Larry Ryan, junior guard, played but little because of weak arches last year, thus losing both experi­ence and conditioning. He looked fine against Wisconsin, especially early in the game when the others appeared to be jittery. But he apparently got tired, and it was necessary to replace him in the starting lineup. 
Keogan turned to his second team and found Don Smith, Spring Valley, HI., senior, who has not made a letter as yet; and Bob Smith, Joliet, 111., junior, who had shown a flair for shooting baskets, but not a whole lot else. 
Ellis's 12 point plus 12 by Sobek and five by Eiska enabled the Irish to nose out Syracuse, 33 to 29, to snap the four-game losing streak. Ellis started this game. Keogan -was not satisfied yet, however, and it was at this juncture that the Smith lads were given starting assignments. 
Then followed the most startling re­versal of form we've seen in a Notre Dame team in more than a decade of watching. The ball moved faster, Riska and Sobek got the kind of shots they liked, and the students were yelling "Yea Sraitty" at one or the other or both. Riska got 44 points in the next three games, Sobek got 46 in the last four, Ertel got 30 in the last three, and the records have been tumbling at a great rate. 

Meanwhile, Eyan and Klier have played better hall than ever before, and the Irish, as a squad, are stronger than 
•when the deinotions and promotions were made. Keogan refuses to break up his new combination while it is win­ning, but he refuses to rank his teams first or second. "If the starters can hold 'em even, I'm satisfied," he said recent­ly. "Then in the late minutes of the first half, I can send in Ertel, Klier, and Ryan and run up a little edge, and we can get those precious five minutes that open the second half to work our way." 
The Kentucky, Butler, and Penn games have gone according to this plot just like a movie follows a scenario. In each of them, the score was tied at from 15 to-18 late in the first period. In each of them, Notre Dame held a comfortable half-time margin. In each of them, the Irish exploded a two- or three-minute blitzkrieg to score eight or 10 quick points, then they simply used that margin as a lever. 
Kentucky fell, 52 to 47, catching up 10 points in the last two minutes against the third team; Butler succumbed, 55 to 39; and Penn lost its 11th straight against Notre Dame, 55 to 35. 
At this writing, your author is con­templating hopefully revenge victories over Northwestern and Illinois. 
Meanwhile, let's look at the records. 
The 63 to 26 victory over Valparaiso marked a new high total for each team and a new combined score record for the series (four games). Since the game with Cincinnati was the first between the two schools, it automatically set records. Notre Dame's 51 points made a new record for the Irish against the Badgers, and Wisconsin's 33 points were second highest in the five-game series. The total score of 84 points, equalled last year's 84 (Wisconsin, 45; Notre Dame, 39) record total. 
We've already recounted the marks made in the Southern California game. The Michigan contest saw new team and combined score totals established, by one point in the case of each team, and two points in the combined score. The old marks came out of last year's 40 to 39 Michigan victory. The Illinois game didn't affect the record book, ex­cept that it might be interesting to know that the series has been strictly see-saw for the last eight games. 
Northwestem's 47 points were a new high for the Wildcats against Notre Dame in the 36-game series. The total of 84 points for the two teams is also a record — what's this modem game coming to anyhow? 
The records survived the defensive Syracuse game unscathed. 
Then came the Kentucky, Butler, and Penn games. In the first, the Irish ran a new high of 51, Kentucky got a rec­ord total of 47 points, and the 98 points for 40 minutes shattered all former marks, and gave the customers a good money's worth. There have heen six games with Kentucky. 
Even the hoarj' Butler series, 33 games old, couldn't survive the on­slaught of the revived Irish. They re­fused to let Butler play its usually delib-
Coach George Keogan 

erate type of ball, and i^an 55 points for a new Notre Dame high; and the Bulldogs got 39, only two under their previous record. The total of 94 — you guessed it — is a record for the series. 
Came the Penn game, and Notre Dame collected 55 points again for a record, Penn got 35, only one point under its previous best mark against the Irish, and the total, of 90 naturally set a record. The 55 the Irish got represent the biggest total ever scored against Penn on its home floor. 
And while we haven't checked the matter, a good guess would be that Southern California's 55 against the Irish falls into the same category. Mar­quette got 58 at Milwaukee last year for an all-time high. While, rambling, well offer a wager that the total of 106 points made in last year's second Mar­quette game will last a while in that series, unless the rule makers decide to put the players on skis and speed up the warfare a littie more. When that stage is reached, we'll cover the games with a Sundtrand instead of an Under­wood. 
Scores to date follow: 
Nov. 30—Kalamazoo at Notre Dame. G2-34 
Dec 4—^Valparaiso at Valparaiso. 63-26 
Dec G—^Univ. of Cincinnati at N. D., 54-17 
Dec 12—Univ. of Wisconsin at N. D., 51-33 
*Dec 16—TJniv. of Michigan at Ann Arbor, 39-41 
•Dec 22—So. California at Notre Dame, 38-55 *Dec 27—Illinois at Cliampaisn, 29-42 •Dec. 30—^Northwestern at Evanston, 37-47 
Jan. 6—Syracuse at Notre Dame, 33-29 Jan. 13—Kentucki- at Notre Dame, 52-47 Jan. 16—^Butler at Notre Dame. 55-39 Jan. 20—^Pennsylvania at Philadelphia, 55-35 Jan. 27—^Northwestern at Notre Dame Feb. 3—^Illinois at Notre Dame Feb. 10—^New York U. at Madison Sq. Garden Feb. 12—Toledo at Toledo Feb. 17—John Carroll at Notre Dame Feb. 20—Marquette at Notre Dame Feb. 26—Butler at Indianapolis Mar. 2—^Marquette at Milwaukee Mar. 9—Detroit at Detroit 
* Indicates losses. 
FENCING 
Under the substitute, but efficient, eye of Prof. Walter Langford, Notre Dame's stabbers have been getting the instruc­tion to which they had become accus­tomed from Prof. Pedro A. de Landero, and they have a neat profit of two vic­tories to show for their and Prof. Lang­ford's trouble. 
Prof de Landero, in case j'ou haven't been reading the ALUMNUS carefully, has availed himself of a sabbatical year, turning both the. fencing and tennis teams to Prof. Langford. 
The Irish dropped Detroit, 11 to 6, and Northwestern, 14 to 8. Both scores could have been larger, had Prof. Lang­ford wanted to extend his "regulars." He opened the gates of mercy and gave some newcomers the experience they'll need later. 
It would seem that Notre Dame is headed for another winning season, albeit the following obstacles remain: 
Feb. 3—^Alichigan State at East Lansing Feb. 10—Chicago at Chicago Feb. 17—Ohio State at Notre Dame Feb. 24—^Michigan State at Notre Dame Mar. 1—^&faFqtictte at Milwaukee Mar. 2—Wisconsin at Madison Mar. 16—Washington U. at St. Louis 
Leaders to date have been Captain Robert Sayia, foil; Jerry Donovan, sabre; and Joe Smalley, epee and sahre. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Football Banquet Again Successful 
Is Held on December II, With Spotlight on Team and Coaches 
The 20th annual civic testimonial foot­ball banquet, sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, held on December 11 in the East Hall of the University Dining Halls, was in keeping vdih the fine tradtion that has grown up about this annual affair. It has suffered only by the passing of time since that date and the publication of this ALUMNUS. 
President Frank Miles appointed Aar­on Huguenard as general chairman. The success of the banquet was evidence of the wisdom of the choice. This year, marking two decades of banquet history, the spotlight was turned with special emphasis on the team and the coaching staff, the original purpose of the ban­quet. 
Bill Corum, sports writer of the N. 
Y. Joumal-Americaii, as toastmaster. In addition to Elmer Layden, and Eev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., representing the University, and President Frank Miles representing the Club. Speakers were Coach William Alexander of Georgia Tech, Coach Bill Wood of Army, and Coach Gus Dorais, '14, of Detroit; Paul Fogarty, '17; Hon Francis P. Matthews, Supreme Grand Knight of the Knights of Columbus; Mayor Jesse I. Pavey of South Bend; Jack Ledden of the South Bend Tribune, and Warren Brown of the Chicago Herald-American. 

Coach Alexander's wit and wisdom, delivered in a rich Southern accent, and Paul Fogarty's Notre Dame lore, poetic prowess, and vivid impersonation of Knute Eockne, were highlights of the banquet. Also highlights of the event were of course the news that day of Bishop O'Hara's new post, and the an­nouncement of the 1940 captaincy of the Notre Dame squad by Milt Piepul. 
Monogramraed sweaters were awarded to the members of the team fulfilling the requirements of the Athletic Association. 

Louis Bruggner, Herbert Jones, Jos­eph Petritz, Floyd Searer, Harold Web­er, Joseph Quinlan, Edward Doran, and Joseph Donahue, were among the com­mittee chairmen working with General . Chairman Huguenard toward the suc­cess of the event. 

NOTRE DAME BOOKS ... . 
Captain Johnny Ford, by Brother Ernest, C.S.C, Notre Dame: The Ave Maria Press, 1939, 51-00. 
Dick of Copper Gap, by Brother Ernest, C.S.C, Paterson, N. J.: St. Anthony Guild, $1.00. 
Boys of the Covered Wagons, by Brother Ernest, C.S.C. Illustrated. Portland, Oregon: Binfords and Mort, 1939, $1.50. 
There are many exciting, entertaining, and spectacular episodes in Captain Johnny Ford, of which this is the second edition, that will delight every high school boy. The story opens with a de­scription of a football game, in which Johnny's undefeated team seeks a City Championship, that reminds one of the Rugby contest, described so vividly by Hughes in Tom Broxon's Schooldays. 
A more recent release is Dick of Copper Gap. This well-told and interest­ing story will have a salutary effect on its readers. Dick O'Brien, hero of the tale, a manly lad if ever there was one, is hard put to it to follow his vocation to the priesthood. Plenty of obstacles to his goal beset his path. How Dick over­came these trials and tribulations is un­folded in a series of fine climaxes. 
Boys of the Covered Wagons is a story of the Oregon trail. A thrilling tale of adventure, like the two foregoing books, it contains much excellent character de­lineation, and almost enough action and suspense to hold a high school boy from the old swimmin' hole, the tennis court, the baseball diamond, or the football field. The boys help to bring the cara­van through many hazards. Their brushes ivith the Indians, their adven­tures with the stampeded buffalo herd, their hairbreadth escapes fording rivers, and their experiences in a cyclone — all help to make an interesting and enjoy­able story. 
BISHOP O'HARA'S COAT-OF-ARMS 

In choosing the coat-of-arms that he will use as bishop, the Most Rev. John 
P. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., has again shown the deep regard and affection that he feels for Notre Dame. At the base of his shield is the Latin scroll with the in­scription "Following her, you will not lose your way," referring to the Blessed Virgin, pati-on of Notre Dame. 
In the jurisdictional half of his shield. Bishop-elect O'Hara has chosen the arms of the Univeristy, consisting of a star, symbolic of Our Lady, Star of the Sea; a cross, symbol of Catholicism; a book, symbolic of the educational activities of the University; and waves to represent the lakes on the Notre Dame campus. 
The upper quarter of the other half of the shield is occupied by the arms of the Congregation of Holy Cross, two an­chors and a cross, while in the lower quarter is the arms of the O'Hara fam­ily, consisting of a black lion rampant on a gold saw. As with all bishops' coats-of-arms, the shield is topped with a mitre, a cross and a crozier, the latter being symbolic of the shepherd's staff. Dropping from a green bishop's hat are two cords, one on either side of the shield, each of which end in six tassels. 
BULLETIN 
A fire, on Sunday morning, Jan­uary 28, damaged the Main Build­ing to the extent of at least §10,000. Starting in the basement of the Carroll Hall side, the fire was confined, by the expert work of six South Bend fire companies, to a small area in and near the washroom and the west stairs. Be­cause the heat and electricity had been turned off for the day all the students residing in the Main Building were quartered for Sun­day night in other campus build­ings and in South Bend hotels. 

« « «


ALUMNI CLUBS 
BUFFALO William P. Cass, '32, 235 Capcn Blvd., President; Frank J. Cass, 235 Capcn Blvd., Secretary. 
After miEsinB two issues of the "Alumnus** with some news from Buffalo, I am sending a few lines a bit late. 
The Kotre Dame Club of Buffalo sponsored an excursion to the N.D.-Army game via the Erie 
R. R. In the same car with club president, William Cass, were three Franks, all of Notre Dame: Frank Rcppcnhascn, Frank Bennett and Frank Cass. 
Ralph Else, formerly of Buffalo, drove to the game from Auburn, N. Y., and dropped into the room I shared with my brother Bill. 
3rr. and Mrs. Bob Moore and their party drove from Buffalo. Mrs. Moore, by the way, is as loyal to Notre Dame as anyone I have talked to since leaving the campus. 
The Buffalo Club lost its best friend when Jim Britt left the local broadcasting station to carrj' on his work on an Eastern network. TrVe all wish you lots of luck in your new work, Jim. 
On Christmas day, Mr. and ISIrs. Frank J. Maher announced the engagement of their daugh­ter Grace to John C. McKendrj-, Jr., *37. 
The Campus Club held its traditional Christmas 

dance December 26, in the Hotel Statler Ballroom. 
The dance was a real success. Among the alum­
ni attending were Mike and Paul Shecdy, Carlos 
Frank, Bill Manard, Jack McKcndry, Frank 
Reppcnhagen, Tom Condon, Frank Bennett and 
Charles Ernst. 
Frank J. Cass. 

CANTON, OHIO Robert C Strcb, '32, 1319 Morley Ave., N.W., President; George P. Maloncy, Jr., '34, 922 Ridge Road, N.W., Secretary. 
I do want to report our Communion Breakfast of December 10. We had a nice attendance for, out of 22 members, we had 18 present. We went to Communion at the eight o'clock Mass at St­Peter's Church in downtown Canton, after which Msgr. Habig gave us the use of the kitchen and the school hall, where we had breakfast. In order to add the Notre Dame atmosphere we made sure that we had the well-known grapefruit as part of the course. Father Leslie favored us with his presence. 
Among those who attended were the foIIo«-ing: Joseph Rehillot, Alfred Vignos, William Zink, John Waltz, Glenn Dubs, and Dick Conley. Our secretary. Bud Kolp, wired from Erie. Pennsyl­vania, his regrets that he could not attend. The recent marriages of Glenn Blake and Norman Conlcy evidently prohibited their attendance, but we who were there heard some interesting dis­cussions from vray back when. 
Joe Rehillot related the first victory of Notre Dame over Northwestern in 1889, with the cas­ualty of a broken jaw for Notre Dame. I guess the hoys were tough in those days. AI Vignos supplemented Joe's remarks and referred to the large student body of 450, also to the fact that the boys "back in those days" knew how to "skive" out. All in all we felt pleased with this affair particularly since it had the attendance for the first time of our oldest alumni in the county. Robert C Streb. 
TAe 7939-7940 Alumni Board 

Prof. William L. Benitz, '11, Notre Dame, Ind.  honorary  President  
Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., '17, Chicago, HI  President  
Henry C. Wurzer, '25, Davenport, Iowa  ^irst  Vice-President  
Keene Fitzpatrick, '13, San Francisco, Calif.  Second  Vice-President  
James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame, Ind  Secretary-Treasurer  
William E. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Ind  Assistant  Secretary  
Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, N. J.  Director  to 1940  
Francis  H. McKeever, '03, Chicago, HI  Director  to 1941  
Edward F. O'Toole, '25, Chicago, HI.  Director  to  1942  
John  T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, Mich  Director  to 194S  
Ambrose A. O'Connell, '07, Washington, D.C.  .JEso-Offido Director  to 1940  

CLEVELAND 
John J. Collins, *32, 1090 Union Commerce Bldg.. President; Ridiard F . Prezebcl. '35. 800 Bulkley Bldg.. Secretary. 

The Christmas dance was swell. And this Is no idle boast. I took a survey of crowd reaction, and practically everyone that attended had a grand time. This surwes positively did not in­clude the 150 or so who served on the committee. Bob Morrisscy. AI Lawton, Bob Mazancc, Jim Up­richard. Jack McDonald. Bob Hackman and Joe Butler did a bang-up job on the general arrange­ments, -while the Mesdames Byrne, Upridiard, Rohr, Lawton. Conley and Butler were the fem­inine -workers, and mighty active they were, too. The brothers Raddatz set a new high in publicity garnered for a Notre Dame function. Bud coined the -^vords and Les Raddatz (using a Bro'wnie Box at %) snapped the pictures. 
Ed Killcen has started tilings mo\-ing on the eighth annual Retreat, which, incidentally, has grown enormously in the last few years. ITiree week-ends arc now needed to accommodate the crowd wishing to attend. These week-ends start on February 9, IG and 23. Tom Byrne and Jerry Reidy are aiding Ed in the arrangements. 
Personal Fiilaver: Gene Ling in from Chicago for a three-day holiday. lt*s a daughter at the Clayt Lcrouxs and a son at the John Butlers. Otis Winchester is press-agenting Father ' Jim Moran's C.Y.O. boxing show. Frank Gaul is playing hockey with about 50 different teams. He's a Harrisburg Hot-Shot one night and a To­ledo Terror the next. Jack Collins is sparing no adjectives in describing Ed Broscoe's ability as a toastmaster. He heard him at the Benedic­tine High School football banquet. Ed is coaching there, you know. Oncy Bloom has gotten him­self engaged after a three*week whirlwind court­ship. 
At the Christmas Dance; Dr. Lambert McGan­non and Mrs. Bob Butler copping the champagne for their interpretations of the rhumba and tango in the Arthur Murray dance contest. . . . John Beglcy in from Detroit and doing a solo. .. . Lon Hniby and Louis Wolf escorting two John Powers lovelies from New York. .. . Joe Strauss and his 'wife coming out of an alUtoo-long re­tirement. 
Dick PrezcbcL 

DAYTON 
Gajlord P. Haas, '29, 17 E. Bruce Ave., President; William L. Struck, '36, 70S Winters Bank Bldg., Sccrctarj-. 

Activity has been relatively abundant with us since our last article appearing in the "Alumnus." On the night of November 30 a meeting was held at the home of the writer. The following mem­bers were present: Joseph Adrian, Andrew Aman, Robert Bolz, Richard Burkholder. Silvester Bums. Walter Dickerson. Edward Grimes. Forstcr Hahnc. Thomas Kelly, Charles Rasor, Edmund Shea, James Trant, Urban Daly, Jack Hamilton, James Collins, Gaylord Haas and myself; -^ 19 members In all. 
At this meetins it was decided io have a Com­munion Breakfast, Sunday, December 10 at the Loretto. A committee was appointed consisting of Forstcr Hahne, chairman, Edward Grimes, and Urban Daly to make the arrangements. It was also decided to have dues of Sl.OO per member every six months in order to have funds with which to send Slass cards for deaths within the immediate family of members and to defray oper­ating expenses. The secretary was elected to the new office of treasurer in conjunction with his secretarial duties. Discussion was had as to near future program plans and the meeting was then adjourned. 
On December 10 the following members at­tended Communion - Breakfast at the Loretto: Joseph Adrian, Robert Bolz. Richard Burkholder, Sylvester Bums. Urban Daly, Walter Dickerson, Earlc Frarcy. Edward Grimes. Gaylord Haas, Forster Hahnc. Jack Hamilton, Chester Kline, Eugene Mayl, Joseph B. 3Tnrphy, Charles Rasor, Edmund Shea. William L. Struck and James Trant. Rev. Andrew Scebold said the l^Iass and gave a fine sermon. Charles Rasor was the server Breakfast w*as scr\'ed at 10:00 a.m. and after­wards a business meeting was held at which.time a discussion of future plans was had. A first annual dinner is in the offing. President Haas 
appointed a committee consisting of Robert Bolz, chairman, Edmund Shea, Charles Rasor, and Wal­ter Dickerson in charge of arrangements. Also a committee consisting of James Trant, chairman, Chester Kline, Sylvester Bums and Richard Burkholder was appointed to make arrangements for the Rockne Mass to be held on March 31. 
William L. Struck. 

At the Kiwanis banquet that evening we Notre Dame men sat at a table of our own and basked in the reflected glory of Notre Dame's great coach. And that night Elmer was really great. He made a terrific hit with the local gentry, and all were agreed that of the 11 outstanding foot­ball figures — and they are all toi>-notcher3 — who have spoken at this annual banquet X.ayden is tops. , 
This new start for the Notre Dame Club of Flint has fired the ambition of the whole gang 
— President Steve Rotb, Jim Pearson and LOP Conroy being especially energetic — with the result that something may result. If so, you'll hear more about the this Notre Dame club. 
Don MacDonald. 

INDIANAPOLIS 
J. Albert Smith. '34, 2218 N. Meridian St.. President; Elbert W. Mahoney, *26, 3936 Central Ave., Secretary. 

Recent activities of the Indianapolis Club in­cluded a Christmas party at which Santa Clans in the person of Bob Kirby distributed exchange gifts to about 40 members present. The gifts were appropriate in a£fording amusement. For example, George BischoGf received a wire hair brush. This party was held December IS. 
On December 27 the annual student dance was held at the Indianapolis Athletic Club by the Indianapolis Club of Notre Dame. The party was a huge success, well attended by both students and alumni. 
Charles Buttcrworth. of stage and screen fame, 

was the speaker at a recent luncheon meeting. 
He was playing at the Lyric theater here. Among 
the 60 members and guests present to hear him 
were the following alumni: Herb Shimer, Harry 
Scott. John Carr, BUI Fox, Jr., Ted Marban^. 
Fred Theis, Tom Uraphrey, Bob iVIalamey, A. R. 
Donovan, Pat Fisher, H. J, Dmecker, Dave 
Madill. Walter Stohldreher, Charles Mason. Bill 
Mooney, Jr., John Welch, Mike DufTecy, Nick 
Connor. SHkc Fox, Joe Sexton. AI Smith, Walt 
Houppert, George Smith, John Blackwell, Bill 
Holland. Tom Grady, Henry Frommeyer, Jim 
Kirby. Joe Beck, C. J. Pickard, W. M. Dona­
hue. Pat Donahae, W. M. Donahae, Jr.. Bill 
Krcig. Maurice Mnlrey, Tom Mahaffey. Fred 
Mahatfey. George Bischoff, Bob Aloynahan, Bill 
Konop, H. M. Leech. J. W. Boeling. Joe Argus 
and Art Shea. 
El Mahoney-

KANSAS CITY (MissouH-Kansas) 
John J. O'Connor. '34, 4133 afercfer St., Kansas City, Mo., President; Norman M. Bowes. '33, 5525 Rockhill Road. Kansas City, AIo.. Secretary. 

The campus club staged a successful formal dinner dance December 27. at the Milbum Coun­try Club. About 50 couples attended the dinner, and more wandered in later in the evening. A football, autographed by the 1939 Notre Dame team, was given away during the festivities. The alumni rug-cutters were: AI Nigro, Ernest Maurin. David Crooks, Tom Reardon, %nnccnt DeConrsey, Frank Toync, Joseph Reedy, Richard Bowes, Joseph Waller, John Dagan, Ed Holman, Tommy Yarr. Bob l^Icr, Tom Higgins, Charlie "No Appeal" Higgins. Bill Mahoney and Tom Tobin. 
The Alumni Association extends its sincere condolences to Bernard Qnirk. '35. whose father died late in December: and to the family of Charles O'Brien. '29. who died in Parsons. IDin­sas. early in December. Both were Christian gentlemen and friends of Notre Dame. 
The weekly Thursday luncheon meeting at Engleman's is meeting with increasing response. The time is from 12 (noon) to 1:00.. 
DENVER 
James P. Logan. '18. I^ogan Movins: & Storage Co.. 37th & Marion Sts.. President; Charles F. Cassidy. *38, 1249 FiUmorc St.. Secrctao*. 
I*ve been waiting for the oflicial reading of onr financial report of the trip back to tlic U.S.C. Eamo. However, I can give you a little dope about it. From the way everj-body is still talking, it was the most successful trip ever run out of Denver. There were 270 people on the train and not one complaint: which is very, very good. The profits from the trip will go into our fund for the cstihlishment of a scholarship for some deserving lad from the state of Colorado. Just exrictly what type of scholarship it will be or the method we'll use to select the student has not been determined yet. That will all be decided in the next meeting. I had hoped we'd have it all settled before the next issue went to press. 
Tlie club is better known than ever after the trip. AH the local papers and sports writers were with us this year and gave us some wonder­ful write-ups. Ed Mansflcld, chairman of the publicity committee, is the one really responsible for it ail. The club and its trips are kno\vn throughout the Rocky Mountain State because of the newspaper publicity Ed has gotten for us. He deserves a good "blow," to nso some of N.D.'s quaint campus slang. 
This may be of interest to other clubs: we've bc-en having very good luck with dinner meet­ings. Sixty-five cents a plate at the local Ameri­can Legion hall. Tlie fellows seem to like that better than just a plain business meeting. 
Charles Cassidy, Jr. 

DETROIT 
Howard F. Bccchinor. ex. '06. 1300 Union Guardian Bldg.. President; Malcolm P. Knaus, '26, 423 Curtis Bldg.. Secretary*. 
Our meeting December 12 was a rousing success. We had 93 present. The guests of honor were Bill Ccmcy, from Notre Dame, and Tom Harmon, University of Michigan's All-American halfback. Ty IVson, WWJ's sports an­nouncer, came later in the evening. I mustn't forget that Rev. James "Whalen, who has charge of Catholic high school activity in Detroit, gave a short but verj- inspiring talk about Notre Dame. 

The Universal Notre Dame Night Planning Committee, under the chairmanship of Jay L. "BifCy" Lee, includes all of the trustees and offi­cers of the club and several other key individuals. It has been very active in laying plans and dis­cussing v.irious suggestions. 
The annual Christmas dance can certainly be called successful because there were 400 present at the main ballroom of the Book-Cadillac Hotel, Friday night. December 29. Marvin Frederick and his orchestra furnished a nice variety of music and the reports from those attending were ex­cellent. 
Notice will no doubt appear in this issue of the "Alumnus" of the terrific less that the Detroit Club suffered in the death of Don P. O'Kccfe, December 18, 1939. The University itself was very well represented hy Father J. Hugh O'Don­nell and Father Tnihcy and Art Haley. The De­troit club had a special body of about 30 members attend. 
An average of 15 members have been able to attend the Thursday noon luncheons at the Cafe Old Ihladrid. 
The annual retreat at Manresa will be held February 8. 9 and 10, which are those days im­mediately following Ash Wednesday. As usual. Harrj- F. Kelly, who is keenly interested in this activity, is chairman, assisted by Art Cronin and Line Wurzcr-
It has been very encouraging to see that the two meetings of the new year have, so far, boosted our last year's average attendance 58 per cent. 
Malcolm F. Knaus. 

FLINT 
Donald F. SlacDonald, '31, 2134 S. Saginaw St., Secretary. 

To Vincc Kyan and Paul Hughes with the very fine cooperation of Joe Weiss goes the credit for reviving the Notre Dame Club of Flint from a coma that had lasted several years. The occa­sion was the appearance of Elmer Layden in Flint during December as the main speaker at the annual high school football banquet sponsored by the Kiwanis Club, 
Yincc Ryan and Paul Hughes got the idea of an informal get-together between the alumni of Flint and Elmer Layden. and Joe AVciss offered his very nice home for the gathering. In addi­tion to the local club members — President Steve Roth, Frank Core. Jim Pearson. Lou Conroy. Joe Kcllcghcn. Ed Barch. Bill Minardo. Tink Cuthbertson, Sam Bolcaros. Hal Stinc. Jack Laux, Clarence Taeckcns, Bob and Don Mac­Donald and Ryan, Hughes and Weiss — a number of the prominent and interested Catholic men of Flint were on hand. Thanks to the preparation of Vince, Paul and Joe the affair was a grand success. 
Tom Harmon, Michigan football star, was a Left to right, are Harmon; Howard Becchinor, 

 guest at the Detroit Club 'meeting on Dec 12,  dnb president; Bill Cemey, assistant football 
coach; and Herb Mcndelson, honorary member of the dub. Congratulations are in order to Mr. and Mrs. 
Jxdc O'Connor, '34, on the birth of a dau^te r December 24; and to Jack Donoshne, '29, -who •waa married in December at Fittshurg, Kansas, to Miss Elizabeth Lyons. 
Ko -word to your correspondent of late from FowerhoQse McGrath, the Sedalia Shotson. who wrote he was never soing squirrel-huntins. 
Ed "Relapse" l^Iansfield, of Denver, -was in 
these parts briefly in December. The errant 
Kocky Mountain Tarheel fought the flu all the 
way across the plains of Kansas. Some of the 
remedies and flu shots prescribed here might 
possibly be described as severe. "Of such 
stuff. . . ." 
Gorman 31. Bowes. 

Doc Kigro writes that the Hockne Club will again form a caravan to the Bockne Menorial at Cottonwood Falls, Kansas, on March 4, the anniversarj- of Kock's birth. Jesse Harper and Alf Landon are expected to be the principal fl>eakcrs at the ceremony. 
Doc also said that the All-Star Italian-American team, as selected by the National C^vic Xieague, included, on the first team, Zontini and De-Franco of Notre Dame and, on the second team, Biagi and Arboit of Notre Dame. 
MEMPHIS 
Donnell McConnack. '36. 196 E. Parkway, South, President; Bailey Walsh, ex. '27, Columbian Mutual Tower, Secretary. 

"We held our annual December election at Pete Friedel's on Poplar Ptke December 2S. It was a very successful meeting of the alumni, as well as the present students at Notre Dame. A banquet was first held and was enjoyed by all. 
The following new officers were installed: Donnell McCormack, preadent; Jerry Foley, vice-president; J. E. Franchcrc, second vice-president; 
T. F. Dohognc, treasurer; and Bailey Walsh, sec­retary. 
A number of interesting speeches were made by the present students at Notre Dame, princi­pally, Sfartin Began and Ffail Canale. Both of these boys pledged their aid in attempting to bring the Notre Dame track team to the annual Cotton Carnival which is held in Memphis every year. 
We also have to announce with pleasure the marriage of Stnria Canale to Miss Lloyd Talley, of Clarksdale, MississippL Quite a number of our boy went down for the wedding in Clarks­dale, which was held during the holidays, and all report that Miss Talley is a very lovely young lady. All of us wish them much happiness. 
Bailey Walsh. 

MIAMI, FLORIDA 
Vincent C. Giblin, *18, 4103 Collins Ave., 
SGami Beach. President; Daniel J. Lino, ex. 
•34, 1617 N.W. Ninth Ave., Miami, Sec­retary. 

Professor Downey, recuperating from a serious illness, which kept him on leave of absence through the first semester, spent some weeks in Miami and sent the following: 
The economic conditions in the country must have improved because I have met several recent Notre Dame graduates and their wives visiting this section. 
Ran into Julian Acres, A-B. '31, who traveled for Cudahy, then went to Europe for the Ham­burg-American Line. This job folded up with the Neutrality Law, and he is now down here ^t h the Eastern Air Lines. 
While we were at the Old Heidelberg for Christ­mas dinner, John Bennett, A.B. '33. of Rockford, ni., showed up with a very nice wife. 
At Rotary one Thursday, the chap next to me asked where I '\\'as from and when I told him from Niles, Mich., he said he knew the place, having gone to Notre Dame University. Intro­duced himself as Tom O'Neil, formerly of Akron, Ohio. We spent the rest of the day together. Among other things he took me out to his place of business (local Genera] Tire distributors), to meet Bob Lcppcrt, A.B. '32. also recently mar­ried. Bob looks fine. 
New Year's night, coming out of the Uncoln Theatre, someone called my name and I turned around to sec two flashing brown eyes, but it was the man beside her who shook hands, Bernard Good, A.B. '39, on a honeymoon. He certainly has a beautiful wife. I was sure for a minute it %vas Mary Cass Cahill. 
Yesterday afternoon I stopped over at the Anson-Donoghues and found that Francis Ed­mund Donoghuc, '36, now finishing medicine in New York, had just left after spending the holi­days here. Leonard Donoghuc. A.B. '32, was not down but is "infantidpating" at his home at Ox­ford, Ohio. 
I had a nice visit with George Anson, who is slowly recuperating from a heart attack last summer. 
They tell me that a number of other boys are around town, but I have not met them as yet. 
Stopped at Bannons at Louisville on the way down, and met Shelley and John, both N.D. men. 
NEW JERSEY 
Daniel J. O'Neill, '26, 184 N. Walnut St., East Orange, President; Harvey P. Rock­well. '34, 1202 Essex Hoose. 1048 Broad St , Newark, Secretary. 

Past ActiWtics: A number of the members of the Jersey Club joined with the New York Club on December 10 for the Universal Notre Dame Communion Sun­day. The club as a group feels that this is an excellent activity and plans to anticipate it with more concerted action for next year. 
The meeting headcjuarters were changed from the Essex House in Newark to the Robert Treat Hotel where the November meeting was held. 
Future Events: 
Another innvotion for the Jersey Club will be before the next (as this is written) meeting. A number of us who work in and around Newark plan to meet for dinner before the meeting and an invitation vri\l be extended to all other mem­bers to join this Dutch Treat session. We think this may bs an excellent way to get committee meelinss in before the regular meeting. 
The"Ear to the Ground" Committee has appar­ently been busy with Christmas shopping for it has not been too helpful in furnishing the usual complement of tidbits but: 
Jim Clark's new baby girl was quite properly baptized, according to Jim Pagan and George Wenz who supervised the proceedings. 
Bob Ryan will be married in January and the club extends congratulations. 
(Hiaricy Quirk is now well established in his new job with International Business Blachine Corporation in South America, where he is install­ing equipment for Standard Oil Company. 
H. P. Rockwell. Jr. 

Past Activities: 
You may have heard of the outstanding success that was the New Year's Eve dance, given as a home-coming for the students. -We had the larg­est attendance ever and reports of a good time have been coming in from all directions. Jade Winbcrry. the general chairman of this affair. 
says that his committee deserve the highest praise for their excellent cooperation. 
Incidentally, the writer was fortunate enough to be able to be in Rochester for the Notre Dame Christmas dance there, and if all the clubs ran affairs as successfully as these two there are a great many happy chairmen today. 
Our president has started another progressive move in planning a complete revision of the constitution. In the past several years conditions have made this step desirable and, from the ac­tivity evidenced by the committee to date, this revision will be well worthwhile. Congratula­tions I 
The most sincere felicitations and homage is extended to our dear friend. Bishop O'Hara. Those of us who were fortunate enough to know him either as prefect of religion or as president of Notre Dame know that his military flock are indeed fortunate in their new Shepherd. 
Future Activities: 
We are all looking forward to seeing Notre 
Dame trim N.Y.U. at Madison Square Garden 
in basketball. Ned Irish, director of basketball 
in the Garden, has kindly arranged to give the 
New York and New Jersey clubs ticket prefer­
ence for this game. 
The "Ear to the Ground" Committee reports, while brief, include these facts: 
Bill McCormick, who recently came to Newark from Syracuse, came to the last meeting and told us he likes his new position with the "Newark Star-Ledger." 
Bill Costello is assistant prosecutor of Morris County, and they haven't had a crime wave so far this year. 
Because of the cold weather last meeting night the committee felt sorry for some of the boys who had to come from long distances, such as Joe Quinn, from Newton, Larry Doyle, from Morristown, Ed Van Hocne. from Hackensack. and the O'Keefc brothers, Andy, from New Brunswick, and Jack, from Verona, and others. However, some of the others should show how rugged they are and join in the fun. 
Harvey P. Rockwell, Jr. 

N.EW YORK CITY 
Robert A. Hamilton, '28, 63 Wall St., President; Paul Maholchic. ex. '35, CY.O., 485 Madison Ave-, Sccrctari*. 
BULLETIN 

New officers of the New York Club are: Robert A. Hamilton, president; Warren Fogcl. vice-president; Paul Maholchic. secretary; Joseph 
G. Friel, treasurer. Fogel and Friel were re­elected. Hamilton had served for two years as the secretary de luxe of the club. 
Ihe following comprise the new Board of Gov­ernors of the club: Dan D. Halpin, Joseph G. Friel. Judge William Walsh. Robert A. Hamilton, Richard Donoghuc. Panl Maholchic. John Balfe, Leo McLaughlin, Thomas Alaher, Timothy Toom ey. John Hoyt. Edward Bcckman. Warren Fogcl, Jordan Hargrove. 
Elected to honorary membership at the Janu­ary 19 meeting was Richard Rcid. Laetare Medal­ist in 193G. new editor of the "Catholic News" of New York City. 
Recent leader in the well-filled program of the New York Club was the second annual Universal Notre Dame Communion Mass and breakfast on December 10. Ilie group attended the nine o'clock Mass celebrated by the Rev. Joseph Flan­nelly, administrator of St. Patrick's Cathedral, in the I^dy Chapel, and immediately following the 
^^ ^^-^^rr 
l^^-^^l 

The New York Club, sponsor of the Universal Notre Dame Communion Slass. had this inspiring assemblage for breakfast on December 10. See New-York Club story. The prindpal speaker was Rt. Bev. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen. Representatives of many local colleges attended. 
-: 
*• 
t 
•'­ Mass proceeded to the Hotel Roosevelt, where the breakfast was served. 
Rt. Rev. Msgr. Pulton J. Sheen, D.D., of Catholic University, was the principal speaker at the breakfast, and in his remarks stated that Pope Pius X n had long expected the signing of a pact between Germany and Russia. His Holiness had asked Msgr. Sheen whether he was surprised 
 at this development and his reply was negative. 
" 'I'm clad you're not surprised,' he quoted the Pope as Saying. 'Anyone who knows the philoso­phy of these movements knew they were bound to unite. I expected it for a long time, but it is a very grave danger to the world. But we shall have peace.' Peace, however, will not come from 'Downing Street, the Wilhelmstrasse, the Quai d'Orsay, the White House, or the Kremlin, and certainly cannot come from Geneva or Ver­sailles,' but it can only come from that man of 
 peace whose motto is 'peace to the fruit of jus­tice,*' that peace of Christ, or there will be no peace." 
Raj-mohd J. Kelly, national commander of the American I<cgion, said that too few persons in this country "appreciate what America means or realize what it means to be a free people with rights and privileges guaranteed by the Consti­tution." 
Other speakers were: Rt. Rev. Msgr. J. Francis 

A. Mclntyre, D.D., chancellor of the New York archdiocese, representing His Excellency Arch-Bishop SpcUman, O.D.; Father Flannelly: Rev. Leo Flood* C.S.C., of the Notre Dame lilission Band; and Rev. James Young, C.S.C., of Notre Dame who is studying in New York. Hon. William 
 A. Walsh was toastmaster. "Wynn Murray, radio singing star of Fred Allen's program, rendered selections during the course of the breakfast. 
Other representatives of Catholic schools and colleges in the metropolitan area who were guests of the club were: Very Rev. Philip J. Furlong, president of Cathedral College, Manhattan: Rev. Lawrence Walsh. S.J., dean of Fordham Univer­ sity; Rev. Brother Leo, F.S.O., dean of engineer­ing, Manhattan College; Rev. Francis X. Shea, spiritual director of St. Joseph Seminary, Dun­woodie; Rev. P. C. Toomey, M.M., of Maryknoll; Rev. Brother Christopher, O.S.F., St. Francis College, Brooklyn; Rev. Anthony KiefTer, CM., dean of St. John's University; Kev. James Mc-Hugh, president of Cathedral College, Brooklyn: Rev. Michael Shea, pastor of St. Augustine's Church, Ossining; and Rev. John Kelly, chaplain of the Catholic Writers Guild. 
This spiritual observance of a Universal Com­munion Mass day by Notre Dame clubs all over the world was instituted last year and was spon­sored for the first time by the Notre Dame Club of New York. 
Cardinal Maglione, papal secretary of state, cabled through Archbishop SpcUman the Holy Father's blessing on all Notre Dame clubs on the occasion of this annual Communion breakfast. 
Other New Yorkids: 
A. December 27: Dance of the Metropolitan Club (students) at the Hotel Astor Roof, with music by George Olsen and his orchestra. Many of the alumni stored away their arthritis for the evening to show the future alumni how to step. 
B. January 19: Meeting, with introduction of new oHicers and new Board of Governors, at the Centre Club. A talk by Dr. D. C. Jackson, new dean of the College of Engineering, and by As­sistant Engineering Dean Walter Shilts. Movies, recordings, door prizes, free refreshments. 
C. A Club Calendar for the year^a real calen­dar, with pictures of the University and with the dates of all club events for the year carefully ringed. A copy for each club member and a copy to e\'ery Notre Dame club in the country. A grand idea admirably executed. 
D. The Knute K. Rockne Memorial Trophy awarded by the club to the local C.Y.O. foot­bEll champs—St. Mary's, of the Bronx. 
R The report of the outgoing president, Dan Halpin, as produced in the January **New York Alumnus." A splend^dIy-^\Titten record of a splendid year. 
OKLAHOMA 
Joseph A. LaFortnne, ex. *18, National Bank of Tnlsa Bldg., President; Carl J. Scnger, 
•37, 1204 S. Cheyenne. Tnlsa, Secretary. 

On December 2, 17 alumni and former students assembled at the Tulsa Club for the annual fall dinner meeting. It was indeed a grand crowd and the true Notre Dame spirit filled the atmo­sphere. The evening, after the usual delicious meal and the business meeting, was dedicated to reminiscence. Each one present told of some out­standing event of his connection with the Uni­versity. Many a related fond memory brought the campus of Notre Dame closer to the hearts of all present. 
The business meeting was called to order by Joseph A. Horan, a very promising attorney here in Tulsa. Joe, you know, is the founder and the organizer of this great club. It is due to his vntirine eiforts and personal contact with the members that this organization is what it is today. The meeting at this time, as is the usual custom, was devoted to the election of offi­cers for the ensuing year. Those elected are as follows: 
Honorary president—Joseph A. Horan—attor-ney-at-Iaw, a hard worker and one who really has the Notre Dame spirit at heart. 
President—J. A. Lm Fortune—vice-president of Warren Petroleum Corporation; one of the most active and outstanding Notre Dame men in this section of the country. 
Vice-president—Marion Blake—an outstanding young practidng attorney; a real Notre Dame man and very active in club affairs. 
Treasurer—John O'Hem—with the Larldn Tor­pedo Company; a true Notre Dome man. 
Secretary—Carl J. Scnger—with Haskins £ Sells, public accounting firm; prond and thankful to be a Notre Dame graduate. 
Chairman of the Christmas dance—Robert Sieg­fried—with his father's insurance firm, R. H. Siegfried Insurance Company; first chairman of the annual Rockne 'Memorial program given on the campus, and one who is continuing his out­standing Notre Dame work here. 
The first Christmas Formal Dance ever held in Tulsa was headed by the genial host Bob Siegfried. The dance, which it is hoped will be an annual event, was well attended both by out­of-town and local members and guests. Some hundred-odd couples were in attendance at the dance—and it was worthy of having the name Notre Dame associated with it. The applause was numerous and loud, and proclaimed by all present as being the most outstanding and best conducted dance of the holiday season. Due credit goes to Bob Siegfried's untiring efforts and to his committee who were so cooperative in 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
making this a real and most pleasant Notre Dame dance. 
The dance committee consisted of the following: Robert *L Siegfried, chairman. Hillis BcU, Wil­liam E. Conry» Charles L. Monnott, William Sherry, R. H. Siegfried, Pat Sfalloy, Haskell Askew. James E. Burke, Charles McKamar, Jo­seph R. McGraw. Joseph A. Moran. 
Those attending the meeting were: Marion Blake. John F. Boyle, George L. Cavencss, Wil­liam E. Conrj*, Jack Dunn, Joseph A- Moran, John F. Moran, Charles aicNamar, Charles Mc-Xamara, John O'Hcm, Frank Reidy, James Rcidy, Carl J. Senger, William Sherry, Robert 
M. Siegfried, Ray H. Siegfried and Paul Sticcl­faar. 
It is the aim of your writer to personalize this column for the members of this club. This will be possible only by your kind cooperation in send­ing me news of yourself and your friends. I am depending on you. Address your news to Carl-
J. Senger, 1204 South Cheyenne, Tulsa, Oklahoma. Carl J- Senger. 
PEORIA 
John Sloan, Jr., '33. 233 N. Underbill St., President; Robert E. Ward, *34, 1 Yankee Street Road, Chillicothc, III., Sccrctar>-. 
The holiday dance at the Jefferson Hotel in Pteoria was, as usual, a social success. The in­imitable Dutdi Johnson, chairman, assisted by Vince lUckey and Bob Lacey, worked their efforts into one of the most pleasurable events in recent years. Alumni and present students from out of town attended in large numbers. 
Plans for Universal Notre Dame Night are under way, and the chairman for the occasion will be announced by President John Sloan at our January meeting. The annual celebration here has become more popular each year and the plans for this y(*ar's meeting indicate that it will be the best yet. 

Elmer Gurj* has established law offices in the Alliance Life Building in Peoria. The Brothers Gury, successful in many fields, are now operat­ing Peoria's newest cinema, which promises to be as successful as their other ventures. 
The Peoria Notre Dame Club joins •with all other Notre Dame men in appreciation of the honor and the blessing that is Notre Dame — Bishop O'Hara. 
Bob Ward. 

ROCHESTER 
William E. Mcrriman, '23, 646 Ridge way 
Ave., President; William T. Whclehan, '39, 
4110 Lake Ave., Secretary-

On Sunday, December 10, the annual Commun­ion Breakfast was held -with a large group of the local alumni receiving Communion in a body at St. Mary's Church. 
The Christmas Formal, which vras conducted at the Rochester Club on December 29, -was a financial as well as a social success. Art Mel­ville and his Ambassadors provided music for the affair. 
At the suggestion of our president. Bill 3Ierrl> man, the club is sponsoring a Monfe Carlo Party, Friday evening, January 26. The pro­ceeds of the party Tvill be placed in our scholar­ship fund which we hope will assume large enough proportions to become active next year. John Gillooly has been appointed ticket chairman. 
John Dorschcl, president of our club last year, and Miss Mildred Clements announced their en­gagement recently. 
The engagement of John Odenbach and Miss Lucille Kavanagh has also been announced. 
Glenn Hatch, who has been active in our club's activities, left town recently to assume a new position in Philadelphia. 
Tom King, '39, a native of Elmira, New York, 
is now employed by the International Business 

Machine firm here in this city. 
William T. Wbelehan. 

RHODE ISLAND and SO. MASS. 
John McKicman, '34, 1231 Indnstrial Tmst Bldg., Providence, R. I., President; Charles Grimes. '20, 413 LaMonte Terrace, Sooth Bend, Ind., Secretary. 

Nearly 150 couples gathered at the Metacomet Golf Club, East Providence, on December 26 for the annual Christmas dinner dance of the Notre Dame University Guild of Rhode Island and Southeastern Massachusetts. 
General dancing, including many feature dances, 

•was enjoyed from 10 until 2 o'clock, with dinner at midnight. 
Miss Margaret M. Brady was the geneml chair-m.in of the committee w*hich arranged the affair. Her co-chairmen were Miss Mary R- Grimes and Miss Frances Moran. Other committee groups were: Tictets and resen'ation. Miss Mary L. Mc-Vinney and Mrs. Patrick P. McArdle, music, Mrs. Leo R, McAloon, hospitality. Miss Mary Duffy and Miss Claire Harrington, special feature program, Miss Helen DuITy, publicity. Miss Loretta G. O'Rourke. Miss Anna J. Swift, president, was a member ex-officio of the general committee. 
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
William F. Bembrock, '35, 718 S. 8th St, President; William IL White, '21, 621 S. 7th St., Secretary. 

Michael F. Scyfrit, state's attorney, Macoupin Countj-, was toastmaster at the sixth annual cathedral football banquet held at the K. of C. Club, and Joseph Boland, line coach, Notre Dame, was the principal speaker. Both told in­teresting stories reminiscent of Notre Dame and Rockne. Joe reviewed some of the high spots of this year's football games. Many of the Notre Dame Club members attended the banquet. 
On December 21, a Christmas dinner was held at the Elks' Club under the direction of our pres­ident. Bill Bembrock. About 20 members attended. Among those present were Dr. Paul A. Dailey, Palmyra; I^Iichael Scyfrit and Stephen Carmody, Carlinville; William "Kirby" Sdiafer, Illiopolis; Frank Stelte and Mike Basso, Springfield, Bob Walsh and George Wescnbergcr, students at Notre Dame, were guests of our club. Chnck Corcoran and Mike Seyfrit entertained with an extemporaneous debate on methods of halancing the club budget- Mike invited us to hold a meet­ing in Carlin^-ille and his cordial invitation was accepted. 
Harold Stone, -vice-president, has returned to Springfield and is employed in the Division of Motor Carriers. 
Paul G. Dixon -was appointed supervisor of the 1940 census work in the twenty-first congressional district. 
BiU White. 

ST. LOUIS 
Gene E. Strong, ex. '34, 7527 Weitmoreland St.. Clayton. Mc, President: Albert J. Ravarino, '35, 4651 Shaw St., Sccrctaiy. 

With the Christmas Dance past, and a fine success is was too, the annual mid-winter lull is now in full blast. 
Under the very capable direction of John D. Igoc, Dr. Vince Gorrilla, Al Ravarino, Jerry Arnold, Jack GriBin and Dr. Bert Conciilizi, the dance was held at the Algonquin Country Club, December 28, 1939, with 50 couples attending. The souvenir programs were cleverly designed •with Notre Dame songs on the back cover, and on the inside space was provided for the inser­tion of each couple's photograph, which was taken during the course of the evening. 
With the New Year came some personnel changes which will mean serious loss to the club. Dick Snooks, our very eilicient treasurer, has been transferred from the Industrial Bank, St. Louis, to a bank in St, Joseph, Mo. His new ad­dress is 109 Victoria Courts Apt, St Joseph, Mo. John D. Igoe, always a potent force in local Notre Dame circles, is moving to Kansas City where, believe, he will be in charge of the National Tube Co. offices. J. Carroll Pinkley, '28, is now living in Portageville, Mo. 
Christening parties are in the offing for the additions to the families of Bill O'Connor, '36, and Paul Brumby, '34. It's a boy for the Brum­bys and also a l)oy for the O'Connors. 
Phil Riley, ex. '32, announced his engagement on Christmas eve, and Dr. Steve Richtarsic, '25, was married to Miss Edith Weber. The couple is honeymooning in Mexico and will return to S t Louis where Steve is practicing medicine. 
Honor has come to the club through Dr. Daniel 

L. Sexton, who was recently elected first vice-president of the S t Louis Medical Society. 
A faithful minority gathers every Monday in 

the sixth floor dining room of Famous-Barr for 
lunch. Drop in, if any of you are ever in town. 
Dick Kelly, 

TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) 
Joseph R. Schroedcr, '31, 604 Builders Ex­dtange Bldg., Minneapolis. President; Gerald 
E. McKay, '30, 3450 Dupont Ave., S., ' Minneapolis, Secretary. 

Th best-attended dance ever sponsored by the Twin Cib' Club was run off in the Hotel Radis­son, Minneapolis, on December 30, according to word from Gerrj' McKay, secretary of the club. Jack Keefe was chairman of the committee in charge and did heroic work, especially in the realm of publicity. Joe Schroder, president, and Jack Yclland, "tlie old star\vart," lent a large hand in the ivork. 
Says McKay: "We had a fine representation of the bo3'S from' school, Frank Biagi and Jim Shecly among them. Many out-of-town alumni were present Richard Shamla and Joe O'Hara of Glencoc, brought several couples with them. John Da3*, home from the South, attended his first partj' in many seasons. About 25 alumni in all were present" 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
William B. Jones, '28, Dept of Justice, Room 2632. President; Andrew Anth, '34, 405 Sixth St , S.W., Secretary. 

The Washington Club met at the Raleigh Hotel on December 15, with a gooilJy number of the boys present The speaker of the evening was the Honorable Edward M. Curran, judge of the Police Court Another guest of fame was Dutch Bergman, coach at Catholic University. The meeting was one of interest and something hap­pening every minute. 
President Jones thanked all the committees for the work they have done, and expressed his am­bition to have this year one of particular note. Charles Buttcm-orth, actor, was in Washington, 
D. C., for several days. An invitation was ex­tended to him to attend the meeting, but we re­gret that he was unable to make it Congratula­tions were extended to Father John Francis O'Hara upon his appointment as auxiliary bishop of the United States Army and Navy Dio­cese and titular bishop of Milasa. The Washing­ton Club expressed its desire to hace something in honor of Bishop O'Hara at a later date. We are indeed proud of our Father O'Hara! His in­terest has been very genuine with our AVashing­ton outfit. 
Christmas Contribution: The local club again contributed toward Gordon Hittenmark's doll house. A contribution had been made for the previous two years. The purpose of this solicita­tion is for the needy children in the district. 
Rumors are out that Tom McKevitt, vice-president of our club and a very good one at 
•that, will (as this is written) he married to a former St. Mary's girl, Jliss Dorothy Dugan, "Wednesday, January 17, 1940. Tom, we wish you and "Dot" all the happiness in the world. We understand that Tom's roommates ga%'e him a "bachelor get-together." 
The dance at 2400 SLxteenth Street, N.W. on New Year's Eve was a grand success, and our -thanks go to the chairman, Charles Farris, and bis committee members. 
Andrew C. Auth. 

WEST VIRGINIA 
James A. Malloy. '30, 3824 Staunton Ave., Charleston, President; John Cacklcy, '37, 1521 Lee St., Charleston, Secretary. 

Coach Elmer Laydcn was the principal speaker at Sacred Heart high school annual football ban­
•quet, held here in Charleston during the first week of December. More than 300 guests, in­cluding the governor and mayor, attended the dinner. Sacred Heart is coached by Paul Smith, and the local Irish had their best grid season in years. 
Jim Crowley, now mentor of the Fordham Kams and formerly a member of the celebrated Four Horsemen, gave the main address at the Curbstone Coaches banquet here during the lat­ter part of December. The affair honored grid­ders from Morris-Harvey college, Charleston high school, and Sacred Heart high school. 
Harry Stuhldrchcr was the third "All-America" after dinner speaker in this vicinity within a period of three weeks. He spoke at Marshall College's football banquet in Huntington. 
John Cackley. 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
John J. Ryan, '26, 6343 Morrowfield Are., Pittsburgh, President; J. Vincent Burke, Jr.. 
•33, 6938 Edgerton Ave., Pittsburgh, Sec­rctarj*. 

Our annual dance went over with a 100 per cent bang, thanks to Ed O'Brien, Jack Montcverde, Jack McGovcm, Bill Sixsmith and Scott Shcedy. The location was changed to the Chatterbox of the "William Penn Hotel, January 1, 1940- About 300 couples attended imd danced to Johnny Long's sweet music John Briley, Esquire, took the prize as dancer of the evening. He was closely fol­lowed by Fritz Wilson and Eugene "Smokey" Co>-ne. I saw Bud Mueller at the dance, along with Joe Summers, Bob Smith, Jack Shecdy, Don Martin. Bob Fulton, Lou Walsh, Bob Campbell, George Schill, John Ryan. AI Diebold. John Rior> dmn, and others. Among those mls^ s ware Ed Byrnes, Tnrk Heinert and Leo 0*DonncII, of .the "actives." 
Ibe entire proceeds of the dance went to the Scholarship Fund, of which details will be an­nounced later. 
On December 28, 1939, the alomni held a lunch­eon for the students. Tbia affair was perhaps the best attended and best managed of any we have had in a long time. About 75 attended in all, among whom were 25 students. Even the older alumni, such as Fete Crmy, attended. Fete gave U3 a very entertaining discourse on the "Pitts­hurge Catholic" Speeches were also made by John Ryan, our president, and Ed Half, president of the students. Also present were Cmrl Link. John PavUck and Bill Fay. Closer cooperation between students and alumni was promised for the future. The luncheon will probably become an annual affair. 
Lawrence Smith has been transferred to Wash­ington, D. C, by the U. S. Government. Hugh C (Bish) Boyle has recently been appointed so­licitor for the city controller, an honored posi­tion. Ed O'Connor was welcomed back into the fold at the above mentioned luncheon after a long absence, as was Ben Kaiser. Barney BfcQnaide has promised he will attend the next one. Panl Lesko, '34. is working with the Personal Finance Company, along with Jim Devlin. 
Vince Bnrfce. 


Notre Dame Club of Chicago Still a Leadei 
Largest Numerical Unit in Alumni Association Build­ing An Annual Program of Interest Which is Re­flected in Growing Pride and Activity of Members 
January 24, 1940, Ftcsident Thomas C. Dono-Tan launched the Notre Dame Club of Chicago on another year in its long and interesting history. 
Chicago has suffered from two malr-diei "f local alunmi clubs, Notre Dame or other colleges. One is growing too fast, the other is being too close to the proverbial woods. 
The Club was away out in front long before the Alumni Association or the University or the many forces a club needs to sustain its program were in a position to contribute to the extent the fast pace of the Club demanded. There was a natural decline in the graph, especially after the high peak of 1929 when all Notre Dame's home games were played in Soldiers Field while the Notre Dame Stadium was under construction. 
Not enough attention was paid to the Club or by the Club to its own tendencies. Nearness to Notre Dame gave the individual member a chance to make frequent pilgrimages, and the situation drifted. 
In recent years there has been a most encour­

aging and wholesome renaissance, which ought 
to prevent any recurrence of the up-and-down 
record of the past. This time the Club is build­
ing on the old rock of experience. And the close 
of another year, with the launching of its suc­
cessor immediately and aggressively, indicates a 
place in the alumni sun fitting for the largest of -the Notre Dame Clubs. 
The past year, under President Jim Igoe, the Club first sent out a questionnaire on what the membership thought of policies, the schedule of events, suggestions for additions or substitutions, payment of dues or not and why. Many good suggestions were received and incorporated in the actual program. 
A handball tournament was run to interest younger members. Forty-one participated, of whom 33 were completely new to Club activi­ties. Participation In the tournament resulted in attendance at other Club functions. 
The Club revived in 1930 the newspaper idea, jiublishing a monthly bulletin with announcements of Club activities and objectives. There is no doubt about the value of such a printed medium for stimulating interest and knowledge among members regarding the Club. 
The weekly luncheons, which had brought only a very small turnout, were discontinued, and evening smokers substituted once more. More people attended, and from a larger area, but the events were staged at some financial los?. There is a word to be said for the luncheon idea, and the two forms are probably debatable if not inter­changeable. 
A distinctly new project among Notre Dame Clubs, at least formally, was the organization of the Alumni Glee Club. This group, composed mostly of old campus Glee Clubbers, has ap­peared a number of times at various affairs, and has proved a source of interest to the members themselves. 
Hie placement committee has already been described in the "Alumnus" and is a clearing house for much activity that was formerly limited to the interest of a few or handled haj>­hazardly. 
In addition to these features, the Club con­tinued many events which have become annual and traditional: 
Communion Breakfast, St. Patrick's Day Lunch­eon, Universal Notre Dame Night (record-break­ing crowds), Summer and Fall Dances, Golf Tournament and Dinner (introducing the t^vilight golf idea for better attendance, especially of younger members), and the Annual Dinner and election of officers. The Conmiunion breakfast and the golf tournament attendance broke all the Club records in history. Even the number of members paying dues was substantially increased. 
And indicative of the soundness of the whole picture, the Club carried the overhead, paid off a $200 balance on the Stadium box. made several charitable donations, and finished the year with a §400 balance, slightly over the preceding year's. 
The editors believe that the fine work of th« year and the progress of the Qub ought to be interesting to all alumni through the "Alumniu" but especially to all other Clubs. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

» » »



THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Announcement has been made of the fol­lowing engagements: 
Miss Mildred J. Clements and John G. DorschcJ, '31, of Kochester, New york. 
Miss Mary William Gerst and Dr. John M. Kcancy, '32, of Louisville. 
Miss lUta C. Kelly and Francis J. Fallon, Jr., 
•33, of New York City. 
Sliss Madeline Elizabeth Kelly and Georse. T. Demetrio, *35, of Chicaso. 
Miss Lenora May Smith and Frederick C Weber, Jr., '36, of St. Louis. 
Miss Lucille Palmgren and Norbcrt Tinnes. '37, of South Bend. 

Marriages 
Miss Margaret Earley Wood and Paul J. Doolcy, '25, were married, December S, in South Bend. 
Miss Alice Mary Sexton and William D. Kava­nanefa* '27, were married, December 30, in Chicago. 
The marriage of Miss Elizabeth Lyons and John J. Donahue, '29. took place, December 26, in Milwaukee. 
Miss Elizabeth Joan Kelly and John V. Hinkcl, *29, were married, January 27, in New York City. 
Miss Elise Peyton Smith and William W. Corr, '32, were married, November 23, in Menio Park, California. 
The marriage of Miss Bette Olga Moya and John K. Skedian, '32, took place, November 30, in Los Angeles. 
The marriage of Miss Jeanne Fhilson and Charles A. Quinn, '33, took place. October 21, in Fleetwood, New York. Among the ushers were John J, Burke, '33, Arthur Philson, '38, and Francis X. Fallon, Jr., '33. 
3nss Kita McDonnell and James P . Ross, '33, were married. November 14, in Brooklyn, New York. John Ross, '32, was an usher. 
The marriage of Miss Margaret A. Toomei­and Patrick Quirk, '32, took place. July 1, in Binghamton. New York. Rev. Joseph B. Toomey, '26, brother of the bride, performed the ceremony. Among the attendants were Francis J. Toomey, '34, John J. Toomey, '39, and John ^nifin, '42. 
Miss Grace Huse and E. Ridiard Biggins, *35, were married, December 2, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame 
Miss Katherine Belle Brcussard. daughter of Clyde E. Broussard, '13, and Gerald P. Doyle, '35, were married, December 30, in Beaumont. Texas, by Rev. William D. Green, '26. Amon^ the attendants were Paul J. Doyle, Jr., '36, Rob­ert Simmons, *35, and Joe B. Broussard, *41. 
Miss Rosemary^ Clark and Joseph L. Shiely, Jn, '37, were married. December 30, in St. Paul, Minnesota. 
The marriage of Miss Bette Hurwich and Abraham O. Zoss, '3S, took place, December 24, in South Bend. 
Miss Carroll Denise Dubois and Joseph E. Hannan, *39, were married, December 30, in the Log Chapel. Notre Dame. 
Miss Barbara Anne Smith and John F. Greene, '39, were married, December 24, in Fort Worth, Texas. 
The marriage of Miss Careybelle Kuntr. and Paul E. Kcll, '39, took place, December 16, in South Bend. 
Miss Phyllis P^itt and Robert J. Hahoney, '40, were married, September 20, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Vera Helen Woodward and John W. Young, '41, -were married, December 30, in South Bend. 

Births 
Mr. and Mrs.Ctarence E. Manion, '22, announce the birth of a daughter, Carolyn, on Christmas day, in South Bend. 
A son, David Lyle, waa bom to Mr. and Mrs. Lyle E. Miller, '23, on November 18, in Vin­cennes, Indiana. 
Mr. and Mrs. Matthen- H. Rothert, '24, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Alice Marian, on November 18, in Camden, Arkansas. 
A son, John Anthony, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John A- Gallagher, '26, on January 12, in Cleveland. 
A daughter, FVances Anne, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Clayton G. Lcroux, '27, on December 10, in Cleveland. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Brannsdorf, '28, announce the birth of a son, on December 2, in South B^nd. 
Mr. and Mrs, John H. Ganghan, '28, announce the birth of a son, John Hugh, Jr., on January 11, in Knox\^Ile. Tennessee. 
A son, Rolfe Allan, was bom to Mr. and Hrs. Ray A. Worden, '28, on December 29, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. John P. Bcrscheid. '29. anounce the birth of a son, on January 15, in Fairfield, Alabama. 
Mf. and Mrs, Donald Norton, *30, announce the birth of a son, John Thomas, in November, in Erie. Pennsylvania. 
A daughter, Catherine Arth. was bom to Mr. and Mrs. F. Jerome McKccver, ex. '31, on Decem­ber 16, in Lakewood, Ohio. 
A son, Joseph Henry, Jr., was born to Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H, Carey, '32, on December 30, in Jackson Heights, LJ., New York. 
Me. and Mrs. Leo T. Clark; '32, announce the birth of a daughter, Margaret, on December 15, in Atlantic City, New Jersey. 
A son was bom to Prof, and Mrs. Gcorce Hennion, '32, on November 11, in South Bend. 
A daughter, Mary Kathleen, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. James R- Hilger, '32, on December 28, in Columbus, Indiana. 
A daughter was bom to Dr. and Mrs. John J. Dorsey, '34, on December 29, in Washington, 
D. C. 
A son, Thomas Daly, was bom to Mr, and Mrs. Howard H. Planners-, '34, on Jantiary 6. in East Hampton, New York. 
A daughter. Joan, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. James H. Gleeson, '34, on October 24, in Lima, New York. 
Mr. and Mrs. George Murphy, '34, announce the birth of a daughter, on January 3, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jerome M. Davcy, '37. announce the birth of a daughter. Merrily, on December 28, in Michigan City, Indiana. 
A son, Wallace Leo, Jr.. was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Wallace L. Fromhart, '37, on January 14, in Chicago. 
A daughter, Carol Margene, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Eugene J. Ely, '38, on November 23, in Michigan City, Indiana, 


Deaths 
A brief notification from St. Louis brought word of the death there on last April 2 of Leo 
J. Scherrer, B.S. '90. 
John L. AfcBridc. a student at Notre Dame trom 1896 to 1904, mining engineer and former cohcmercial attache of the United States Embassy in Rome, died recently in his home in Brooklyn, 
N. Y. Mr. McBride was regarded as an author­ity on foreign marbles and was also known for his work in still pictures and motion pictures. He held several patents in the latter field. 
Passing much of his life in Italy, Mr. McBride was director of. the McBride Studios, in Car­rara, and met Premier Mussolini frequently. He served with the United States Department of Justice in the World War. Surviving are Mrs. McBride and a daughter. 
Not until early January did the Alumni Office hear, through Father John MacNamara, '97. of the death, on September 10, of E. Leo "Happy" Holland, LL,B. *99. in Baltimore. Injured seri­ously in an aatomobtle accident several years ago and the victim of pneumonia last spring. Mr. Holland had been in weakened health for some time before his death. He was associated with the Maryland Commercial Bankers in Baltimore. 
Mr. Holland was a monogram>winning pitcher on the Notre Dame baseball team of 1899. In recent years he had been a regular and popular attendant at Notre Dame gatherings, both on the campus and in the East. 
Death settled gently, on December 18, on the gentle soul of one of the University's most de­voted alumni, Don P, O'Keefe, of the class of 1903, general purchasing agent of the Chevrolet Motor Company, Detroit. Former president of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit, former national di­rector and district governor of the Alumni Associ­ation, Don save quietly, but unsparingly, to Notre Dsme. He was, particularly, one of the stalwarts of the Detroit Club and his inspiring presence in that remarkable organization w^ill be long missed. 

Don was buried in Detroit on December 21, after funeral ser\-ices in the Gcsu Church. Pres­ent from the University were Rev. Hugh O'Don­nell, C.S.G., vice-president. Rev. James Trahey, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, and J. Arthur Haley, business manager of athletics. John Higgins, of Detroit, a national director of the Alumni Asso­ciation, was the Association's official representa­tive. Thirty representatives of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit added to the throng of sad friends who attended the funeral. 
One of the pioneers of the automotive industry, Don joined ihe Buick Motor Co. in 1906 as a clerk. Within two years he became assistant pur­chasing agent of the company and retained that position until 1926, when he was appointed gen­eral purchasing asent o£ Che\*rolet. 
Sur\'iving Don are his wife, two daughters and a son. One daughter is a graduate of St. Mary's College, Notre Dame. 
Death took still another loyal and generous aiumnus in late December. Rabcj-Fnnfc, B. Arch. '25, Amarillo, Texas, died the day before Christ­mas, December 24, after an operation on Decem­ber 15, which was followed by pneumonia and other complications. With his wife, a former South Bend resident, he had been at Notre Dame in late November for the Northwestern and the Southern California games. 
Most Rev. Robert E. Lucey, bishop of Amarillo, presided at Rabey's funeral, in Sacred Heart Cathedral on December 2G, and preached the funeral sermon. Present also was Most Rev. Rudolph A. Gerken. archbishop of Santa Fe. 
Rabey was a member of the prominent archi­tectural firm of Townes & Funk, with offices in both Amarillo and Albuquertiue, N. Mexico. Surviving: him, besides his wife, are four daugh­ters and a son. 
A recent notice from the United States post-office brought word of the death, on a date not indicated, of John Edward Fl>-nn, B.C.S. '26. Jlount Holly, N. J. 
Word of the death of Louis J. Higgins. ex. '36, Kansas City, Mo., in October came from Norm Bowes, secretary of the Kansas City Club. 
Father Frank Gartland, C.S.C.. prefect of reli­gion, notified the Alumni Office of the death, on Janimry 8. of Joseph J. O'Boyle, A.B. '38, of Sayre. Pa. Joe died of monoxide poisoning. He was found slouched over in his car in the garage at his home. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere -sympathy to John F., '14. and William J. Hynes, '17, upon the death of their mother; Arch B. Ward, ex. '21, upon the death of his daughter; John Hur^ ley, '25, upon the death of his father; Edward, '26. and William S. Rcaume, '31. upon the death of their mother; Edward Canningham. '28, upon the death of his brother; Rev. Joseph IL Kmiedk, CS.C., '30, upon the death of his father; Arthur 
J. McCann, '30. upon the death of his father; Andrew C Anth, '34. upon the death of his father; John C , '35, Thomas, ex. '40, and Joseph Eava­na^. ex, '41, upon the death of their mother; Robert W. Cavanaugh. '36, upon the death of his father; Robert V., '37. and Roderick L. Troo»­dale, '39. upon the death of their father; Thomas 
O'Dea, '39, upon the death of his mother; Ante* lias J. Rirzi, '39, upon the death of his father. 

Personals 
Before 1890 Camp, New Orleans. La. 
Harry Frcyermuth, formerly of South Bend, a Notre Dame student in 1884-85, is now an orange grower residing on Cucomonga Road, North Pomona, Calif. 
f QQn OO ^^^-^' ^ MacNamara. '97,I OTU"TT Saint Joseph's Sanitarium, Mount Clemens. MldUgan. 
Father MacNamara writes: "Between the foot­ball season and Christmas, I haven't had much chance to do any corresponding. I've seen very few of the men between '90 and 1900. Hugh O'Donncll, *94, and Judge Billy Walsh, '97, were in evidence at all the Army game festivities. Billy Walsh presided at the "Universal Commun­ion Breakfast of the Notre Dame Club of New York. 
'Til be glad to hear from any of the men be­tween '90 and 1900 and to forward any news to the 'Alumnus.*" 
The recent book, "Brother Alexander," by Brother Ephrem, C.S.C,. brings a beautiful trib­ute from Louis P. Chute, Minneapolis: "To say that Brother Alexander's life was an inspiration Is to give renewed vitality to a trite expression. He was a pronounced exponent of the value of the common things o£ life, a multitude of which, properly appraised and directed, result In a ag­gregate monument of accomplishment. The com­posite of many seemingly small things in the humdrum of the day's work made of him an out­standing personality. The example he left is a cherished heritage In the records of Notre Dame. —unique in steadfastness of purpose, — a Joseph in attention to detail." 
1 0AA i\A Robt. E. Proctor. '04. Monger I TUU-Uf Building, Elkhart, Indiana. 
New director of public works in Philadelphia is the able and popular John H. Nceson, *03. lay trustee of the University and former president of the Alumni Association. Chief of the Bureau of Engineering, Surveys and Zoning for 12 years. John was appointed to his new position on De­cember 20 by Mayor Lamberton. In announcing the appointment the Mayor referred to John as "the best man for the job in Philadelphia." 
With which evaluation John's innumerable friends among Notre Dame men will enthusiasti­cally agree. 
lOnC no ^^-Thomas E. Burke. aS.a,ITU3-U7 '07, Notre Dame. Indiana. 
lOIA ^^ -^^ ^ Moriarty. 1900 Euclid 
I 7 I U Ave. Cleveland. Ohio. 
John Frcyermuth. ex. *10, is one of the oper­ators In the fire alarm station in South Bend. John resides at 802 South 31st Street, South Bend. 
101 1 ^"^^ Steers. 1666 First National Bank I'll Building. Chicago. Illinois. 
Ed Story sends word of recent remodeling and modernization in his historic Story Hotel in Elk City, Oklahoma. There are now several Insulated rooms, and a private dining room has been added. 
1912 ^ ^•' ^^^^^>. 324 Fourth SL, Pitts­
burgh. Pennsylvania. 
Paul R. Byrne. University Library.

1913 Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Marriages, — and their anniversaries. — have come up fast recently in the St. Mary-Notre Dame 
family of Clyde Brontsard. Beaumont. Texas. On Nov. 27, Clyde's parents celebrated thd r fif­tieth wedding anniversary and "all nine children were present, and the eight spouse (one child being a nun). My brother, Joe E. Broimard, la an alumnus of Notre Dame. '26. My seven sisters are alumnae^ of St. Mary's. Egh t of the 26 grandchildren were absent. Joe, my son. was in school at N. D. (a junior). Three granddaughters were at Dtmbarton College (Holy Cross Sisters). Washington, D. C." 
On December 30, Clyde's daughter, K. Belle, a graduate of St. Mary's in '36, was married to Gerry Doyle, *35, with Father Bill Green, '26. a nephew of Mrs. Clyde Broussard officiating. 
And on Jan. 21, Mr. and Mrs. Clyde Brous­sard observed their own 25th wedding anniver­sary. 
Frank H. Hayes, 642 Third Are.,

1914 ChQla Vista, CaUfomia. 
The Alumni Office has just found out that Twomey Clifford's present address is 1206 Tower Petroleum Building, Dallas, Texas. He 3s a special agent for the FBI. 
101C Junes E. Sanford, 3725 Clinton Ave.,
17 1 3 Berrn, Illinois. 
101^ P. Gali___ Bnild­
Timothy Galvin. Fin t Trust ing, Hammond, Indiana. 
Edward J. McOski

1917 ^^^^. ^'-^^^"' ^^ ^^ Union
St , Elgin, lUinoia^ 

lOlfi •'^(•n A. Lemmer, 1110 Eighth Ave., I 7 I O Escanaba. Michigan. 
From John Lemmer: 
"Father Charles Williams is pastor of St. Peter's Church, Piper City, Illinois, about 90 miles south of Chicago. He was invited to act as mitre-bearer at Bishop 0*Hara*s consecration on January 15. Father Williams saw Dclmar Edmondson in Hollywood about a year ago and found Delmar married, teadilng. and doing some script writing. 
"Joe Riley is one of Muskegon. Michigan's, prominent attorneys. Muskegon is in the heart of Lower Michigan's summer resort region and Joe will be glad to see old friends who get up that way during the summer time. His office is In the Union National Bank Building. 
"George Harbert is title officer of the Chicago l^tle and Trust Company and finds time to teach Real Property at John Marshall Law School in Chicago. George is extremely active with the Knights of Columbus and Is a director of the Illinois Knights of Columbus Bowling Associa­tion and auditor for the Cook County Knights of Columbus Barbecue, which activity raises funds to help support Bishop SheiTs C.Y.O. activities. Sis oldest son is a freshman at Notre Dame studying chemical en^neering and is the first of four who have Notre Dame set as their goals. Is Harbert, Jr.. the first of the sons of the class of '18 to he enrolled at Notre Dame? 
**Tom Hoban is now general attorney for the Chicago l^tle and Trust company. He is really Judge Hoban since Tom is filling by appointment an unexpired term occasioned by the death of the city judge of Elgin. He is also president of the Kane County Title Company. 
'"Ed Breen was appointed first assistant attor­ney general for the State of Hlinois by Attorney General Caasidy and is in charge of the Chicago office. 
"Sherwood Dixon is continuing to practice law in. Dixon. HI. He is a member of the Armory Board for the State of Illinois.** 
|A| A Clarence_Badcr, 650 Pierce Street, Gary, Indiana. 
Leo B. Ward,

1Q90 ^ ^ ^'J^ ^9^ BI*ck Bldg., Los 
Angdes, Califomia­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
yy, Duffy, 1600 Terminal Tower, 

1921 Dan 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
Bill Lawless may be reached in care of E. T. du Pont deNemours & Co.f WajTiesboro, Va. 
Countrj-wide commendation followed the recent sen'jce of Arch Ward, sports editor of the "Chi­cuBO Tribune,** in di^-ulgins information regard­ing the alleged "faked fights'* of Harry Thomas with Max Schmoling and Tony Galento. 
The sympathy of the class goes to Arch in the recent death of his daughter, following a long illness. 
1 0OO Gerald Ashe, 29 Lake Arc., Hilton, I yjL^ New York. 
The faithful and productive class secretary is traveling so much these days, as a representative of the Merchants Despatch Transportation Corp., that he asked to have all his alumni mail sent to the old home port, as noted above. 
From Kid Ashe: "John Paul CuUen, w-bo became thoroughly refreshed by that clear old California sunshine during his stay in the Los Angeles area the past few years, has been transferred, upon his own request, to the Mid West—where rain is rain, and the boys don*t care who knows it. J. P., who retains the same position as heretofore, with the Veterans Administration, is chief of Adjudication Division with headquarters at Hines, 111. The Gullen manor house is located at 7772 Crossett Drive, Elmwood Park, Hi. 
"Pete Champion, of Cleveland, as president of the Champion Rivet Company, is successfully piloting that company so ably operated by his father for many years prior to the latter's dcath­
"Many have asked news of John Chapla. Here you are. John still lives in Lorain, Ohio. He is associated with Paine Webber & Company, Ter­minal Tower, Cleveland, and handles for this in­\-estmcnt company the sale of municipal bonds in the state of Ohio. 
"Judge AI Scott, of the Superior Court of liOs Angeles, is really convincing the lawless element in southern California that crime does not pay. Some of the judge*s sentences are masterpieces. 
"Men of '22 are extremely happy to know that Eddie Anderson, Iowa football coach, -was selected as the outstanding coach of the past season. Xn New York City. Eddie received the TVorld-Tele­gram*s* Jacob Ruppert Memorial Trophy as a reward for attaining the aforementioned honor. This does not mean we were vezy conttortahle that memorable afternoon last fall when Iowa defeated Notre Dame. However, we can lose graciously, at least, to a 'guy* like Eddie. 
"John Wcisend has law offices in the Hanna Building, Cleveland. 
"Brother Aquinas (Ed Gottry), of the Domini­can order, located at River Forest, HI., has been ill of late. 
"Father George B. Fischer, C.S.C, of the Holy Cross Mission Band, North Dartmouth, Mass., has been conducting Forty Hoars devotion at Blessed Sacrament Church. Rocheter, N, Y., re­cently. 
"Professor Pat Manion has scored a strike in his latest publication, 'lessens in Liberty.' 
"We must not forget to mention that Earl Walsh has been doing wonderful work in assist­ing Jim Crowley with football at Fordham. Also. Judge Carbcrry has carved out a lot of those "blocks of granite' we read so much about. 
"Jim 3IcCabe, in Los Angeles, is still looking up passenger business for the Hlinois Central Railroad. 
"This department is most anxious for news of all men of 1922. If you are bashful about your doings or exploits, "write us a note about what some other classmate is doing. ^Vhe^e in Sam Hill are: Cy Gaffncy, Jim Carmody, Harry Denny, Bill Powers, Kcnn Njhan, Jim Murphy, Walter Mafthcs, Art Kccncy, Pete Lish, Mike Fahcy, Gene Hcidclman. Paul Bolton, and others?" 
1 09^ ^^"' ^* ^^^"cr. 37 South Ave., New 
• T^ O Canaan, Connecticut. 
1 
00A •'• ^- Hayes, Wm. J. Pedrick and 
7^ ^ Co., International Bldg., Rockefeller 
Center, New York City. 
100C John P. Hurley, 20SD Brookdalc Road, I 7Z9 Toledo, Ohio. 
From John Hurley: "The final contributions of the George Chao fund are in, and I was able to mml him §20 more, making a total collection og $120. 
**Joe Burke sent his contribution in without comment about himself. How about a note, Joe? Leonard Hess writes from 224 Belvedere Drive, Sr.n Antonio, Texas. 
" 'Enclosed please find SI for George Chao. Hope I'm not too late. This notice of his mis­fortune was mislaid and I just came across it.' 
" 'We still have our ranch interests in West Texas, but we are living in San Antonio in order to send our oldest girl to a Catholic school. It keeps me busy running back and forth—a distance of 350 miles.' 
"1*11 be looking for that news and nice going on that 350-mile drive, Len. (Bishop O'Hara and Father John Cavanaugh, please note.) 
"Looks like Tom Coman -waited till last so be 
could top the class with bis contribution of $6. 
Says Tom, 'This piece of change for George Chao 
has been rattling around a long time -without 
getting to its destination. Hope it isn't too late. 
Looks like you did a swell job collecting for 
George.' 
"Thanks, Tom. Speaking of thanks, here's a 
note from George Chao himself from far off 
Shanghai. 
" 'My dear James and John: Thanks you again for all you have done for me. I am very glad to inform you that I received the money SlOO which you and Mr. Hurley took the trouble to collect for me. The old saying "a friend in need is a friend indeed," certainly applies to you both and all the Notre Dame men.* 
*' 'The monay reached me only this morning, hut its arrival to Shanghai took place the 7th of October and the bank failed to inform me in time, with a delay of forty-five days.' 
" 'How is everything with you and all yours? Please give my best compliments and respects to Father O'Hara, Fatlier Miltncr, Father Hcaly, Dr. Cooncy and all the Fathers and professors whom I knew at Notre Dame. I am longing to see you all, and pray for you all. Please also kindly pray for me. please drop a line from time to time.* 
"For those who care to write George direct, his address is: George B. Chao, c-o Mother St. Cecilia, Hiao-Mlng Girls Middle School, 37 Rue Montauban, Shanghai, China. 
"Elmer Laydcn -was the principal speaker at a dinner sponsored by the Toledo Downtown Coaches and Elmer went over in a big •way -with the 500 -who attended- Ben Resting, Carl SchacITcr, Ray Tillman and myself represented the class of *25 on the Notre Dame table. Korb ScJiarf took care of the table for the Notre Dame contingent and we all enjoyed talking with Elmer after the affair. 
"Paul Doolcy thinks so much of Toledo that he decided to settle down in a big -way. The Dooleys are at home after December 15, 1945 Ottawa Drive, Toledo. The 1945 is the address and • not the year. Margaret Earley "Wood and Paul' James Dooley were married on Friday, the eighth of December in South Bend, Indiana. Mrs. Dooley is formerly from Des Moines, Iowa." 
« QOJi James A. Ronan, 127 Dearborn St*. I T^ O Chicago. Illinois. 
Tonj- Poggiani is found! A resident of the "mail returned unclaimed*' file in the Alumni Office, since 1933, Tlno has just turned up as a member of the Alarion County (Indianapolis) Flood Control Board, appointed by Mayor SuIH­\*an of Indianapolis. He is now a bridge designer with the Indiana state highway department and has been with the department since 1933. His home is at 215 East 63rd St., Indianapolis. 
Gcrr>- Smith's latest address is 42-25 Layton St., Elmhurst, L.T., N. Y. He recently moved there from Detroit, continuing in the insurance business. 
1927 
Joseph M. Boland, Athlctie Office, 
Notre Dame, Indiana. 
From Joe Boland: 
"Ye Olde Curiousity Shoppe reopens for a ' short term of business at the same location it has always occupied, between '2G and *28 Alumni-Row, Notre Dame, South Bend-on-the-St. Joe. Old customers will be received with the usual cordiality and welcome accorded to the limited clientele of the Shoppe, and newcomers -will be initiated into the esoteric mysteries of the Shoppe by the Custodian-of-the-Uninitiated, Ye Olde Scrivener. 
"An old and valued Shoppe customer of years' standing, the Hon. Rome Dugan, arrived from his ancestral castle in Kansas City, bearing news that the Hon. George (Chunky) i^furrin. w-ith wife, spent a week at the Dugan demesne, while on vacation from his firm of Morrow and Mitchell. Shell Building, of Houston, Texas—a section of the States noted for its production of crude oil. fine fullbacks, and other rare bits of curiosa. 
"Knowing the desires of the Curiosity Shoppe's *27 customers, the Hon. Dugan also reported on a little-heard-of collector's item, Elmer WjTinc, currently practising the advertising art in San Francisco, the States. Bcrnic Abrott, still another Shoppe customer of standing, has borne out all the fine traditions characterized by our clientele, and continuing on his upward climb, is now head man of the housing authority, in the city of Oakland, Calif. . . . This latter advice comes also from the Honorable Dugan, who vouched for several other items, chief among which was a fascinating story of a bathtub in the Palmer House which rared up on its legs and smote the Dugan a solid blow: a tale truly deser\'ing of a place on the mellowed shelves of the Shoppe! 
"From remote places about the globe, such ^'idely-scattered and fascinating names to the uninitiated as McAdoo, Pennsylvania, U.S.A., comes other advices for the catalog-pages of the Curiousity Shoppe, located at '27 Alumni Row. (adv.) John McBride, known and respected among old Shoppe adherents, reports from Mc^Vdoo that all goes w-ell with his person and family; Joe Maxwell, who frequently took advantage of the Shoppe*s invaluable services -while located in his home city of Philadelphia, has, he informs us, entered a fearsome-sounding and w-e suspect, danger-fraught new profession — that of Une­coach at the University of Cincinnati — at which outpost be is evidently suffering pangs of lone­liness, for he orders that which the Shoppe lacks, a supply of some rare merchandise simply listed 'Guards and Tackles, weight 200 or better.' We fear our ability to satisfy. 
"Hugh Campbell, a recent visitor to the Shoppe on the occasion of a strange athletic event nearby our Shoppe's location, reports all well in his na­tive heath of Hazleton, Penna., -with -wife, and family — now numbering four, if advices are correct. The Campbell reported the excellent progress made by Bill Halloran, now of Sears, Roebuck and Co., in Chicago, the States. This latter establishment, according to the Curiousity Shoppe's Almanac, is a firm specializing, since the Ctiriousity Shoppe is unable to so much as receive a postal card from its restricted clientele, 

„,— in most instances. 
"From far places, seemingly, come the excep­tions: Lieutenant llttgh McCaffery, reporting from Pearl Harbor. Honolulu, says all goes well with the McCaffery family in the Pearl of the Pa­cific "WG pray protection for this valued cus­tomer of the Shoppe, and look forward to re­newed negotiations with him over the mellowed, creaking counters of our tradition-laden cstab­
* lishment. 
**nay Snyder, laboring now in the home metrop­olis of South Bend-on-the-St.Joc, reports indirect­ly that matters are in hand. His labors are per­formed with the City Dairy, of that city. Kev. Harry Rj-an, of Iowa City, Iowa — a strange region where some members of the Curiousity Shoppe*s management seem unable to find their 
•way around — was neglected in the last issue of the Shoppe's catalog, and is herewith listed, with both apologies for the neglect, and praise for fine work done in his chosen field. 
"Returning to the scene of undergraduate days, Harold A. Shanaficid was married, in the Presby­tery Thanksgiving day, to Miss Margaret Ann Goodman of Chicago. Rev. Edward Finncgan, C.S.C., performed the wedding rites. 
"Besides an A.B. from Notre Dame, Harold has received a Master of Science in Journalism degree and a Master of Arts degree from North­western University. Mrs. Shnnafield, a graduate of DePaul University, has done graduate work at the University of Chicago and at Northwestern University. 
"They are at home at 1155 East 54th street, Chicago. 
"So, messieurs, the Old Curiousity Shoppe. sit­uated between '26 and '23 Alumni Road, Notre Dame, South Bend-on-the-St. Joe, must needs close up its mellowed, creaking doors for an­other term. Old customers will be gladly re­ceived, as above, and it is our fond hope that the untouched group of unheard-from new cus­tomers will make their present where-abouts known to the quiH-manipuIator who records vital facts pertinent to '27 Alumni Road. .. . Ye Old Scrivener.** 
Art Monaco, with the Roman Record and Dis­tributing Co., 11 "West 42nd St., New York City, is nwking available the recorded apostolic blessing and benediction of the late Pope Pius XI. In­terested "Alumnus" readers may reaeh Art at this address. 
109f i Louis P. Buckley, 908 E- Cedar St., I #* 0 South Bend, Indiana. 
From Lou Buckley; 
"The snowslods have not arrived as yet carrying a report from Ed Freitas concerning the Cali­fornia men. 
"I just received a note from John Gaughan from Knoxville, Tennessee, announcing the birth of a on on Januarj- 11. Consratulations, John. 
"Father Mulrcany dropped me a line from New Orleans telling about the marriage of Gaughan's old roommate, John J. Donahue, in Milwaukee, December 26. John is employed as sales engineer for the Allis-Chalraers Co.. Kansas City, Mo. His address there is 345S Pennsylvania Avenue. 
"Larry Cullincy was back from New York for Bishop O'Hara's consecration. He promised to be our guest writer next month. 
"The January 17 'Religious Bulletin' carries a note to the effect that Vince Cunningham, brother of our classmate Ed Cunningham, died re­cently." 
The able typewriter of John McMahon produced the leading article — and a corking good one — in the recent public relations number of "Editor and Publisher," trade journal of the newspaper profession. John is executive assistant in the Air Hygiene Foundation of America, Mellon Institute, Pittsburgh, and is doing a grand job as chairman of the Placement Committee of the Western Pcnns>-lvania Club. 

Ed Cunningham, so says Registrar Riordan, is now witli the Federal Surplus Corporation and is, presumably, living in "Washington, D. C. 
From John Sciter, 205 E. Market St, Warrens-burg, Mo., came this welcome letter (together with a generous chock as a contribution to the Association): "- . . Just this afternoon I met a 
N.D. jn'aduate of '35, who Hves about 20 miles from here, — and I didn't know there was any one closer than Kansas City. The fellow's name is McGrath. from Sedalia, Mo. It seems that all my plans to get back to N.D. fail at the last minute. Maybe sometime I'll get there. 
"Give my regards to Buckley and Father John 

P. Lynch and, of course. Father Gallagan. Tell Louie Buckley to inquire through the 192S column as to what has become of John Lcitzingcr and Phil Lytic. I am still teaching school here in Warrensburg and still single. 
"A rather funny tiling happened this past summer. I spent the summer in Tucson, Ari­zona, and when I went to look up Eddie Collins I found that h^ had died the day I arrived in Tucson. Every one I met who knew him spoke highly of him." 
1929 Joseph P. McNamara, Attorney Gen­
eral OiTicc, Indianapolis, Indiana. 

Paul E. Baxter is branch cashier and office manager for tlie Studebaker Sales Corp., 5303 Baum Blvd., Pittsburgh, and resides at 445 South Atlantic Ave., in that same city. 
John P. Kelly. 217 South Scott St., South Bend, is a diamond broker. 
Tije noted and notable Jim Bray is now a mem­ber of the arson squad of the Kansas City (Mo.) police department. Formeriy, Jim was in charge of the missing persons bureau of the department. 
Robert Hcllrung, Humboldt Building, 1930 St. Louis, Missouri. 
From Bob Hcllning: 
"Now that we are on our way to Easter, let me acknowledge some Christmas greetings and best wishes for the new year. Jane, Dan and Danny Welchons sent felicitations from Ottawa, Kansas. Best wishes were received from Jean and Spike England of Winfield, Kansas . . . John and Mary Quinn of Chicago . . . Larry Cotter and self of St. Louis, Detroit and Buffalo . . . the Louis Haslcys of the University of Notre Dame und South Bend . . . Don Malloy, the bachelor beer baron, now of St. Louis . . . Dave Ricllcy and family of Denver . . . Joe and Helen Reedy of Kansas City . . . Doug, Barb and Larry Daley of Los Angeles . . . Katherine and Louis Stcttlcr of Cleveland and Rocky River . . . Agnes and Al Monti of Rockford, Illinois . . . Mr. and Mrs. Cornelius J. Carey, Jr., of Malone, New York . . . Leo and Agnes JfcAIoon of F'awtucket, Rhode Island . . . Bill and Mildred Rcaume of Detroit . . . Jimmic and Ruth Na^'arrc of Glendale nnd Hollywood, California . . . Tom and Dana Mur­phy of Franklin, Pennsyh-ania -. , Dick Dono­ghuc and self of New York City . . . Harold and Carmen Simpson of Forest Park and Chicago .. . the Bcmic Conroys of New Kensington and Pitts­burgh . . . and Tom Kcegan of Rockford, Illi­
nois. 
"Thanks for the greetings and the same to you all. 
"Gentlemen, the Thirties are coming to life. The old spirit is returning. Besides the many Christmas greetings, your correspondent has re­ceived numerous letters from the boys, giving us the news we requested in the last 'Alumnus* and assuring us of a good attendance at the Reunion in June. 
"first of all, our secretary, Bemie Conroy, writes from 1109 Kenneth Avenue, New Ken­sington, Pennsylvania. .. . *At the Navy game in Cleveland I saw Chuck Rohr squeeze through the traffic jam, but only had time to say 'hello.* Clarence Kozak is going strong with a steel com­pany in Cleveland. Jimmy Malloy drove in from West Virginia for the game. He is doing well with the Bell Telephone Company and boasts of three children.* 
" 'Frank O'Marah, who works for Buffalo's big utility company, also takes credit for three children. Bill Steitz went over for the Navy game, too, and we saw AI Shipacassc and his wife celebrating the victory after the game. 
" *Leo Carney, from Erie, sat a couple of rows in front of me at the Carnegie game here in Pittsburgh. Count on Leo for the reunion.' 
" 'Hugh Gallagher is now with the Internal Revenue Department in Pittsburgh. At the smoker before the Carnegie game, I remember seeing Bill Gindcr, Bob MacDonald and Ed NebeL Jimmy Dodson was on deck, too, and we made arrangements to go together for the Reunion, .. . so count on us.* 
" 'My brother Tom, of the class of '27, is now with Acme Fast Freight at Louisville, Kentucky. He writes that he saw Bill Sherman, who is now announcer at Station WAVE of Louisville.* 
"Thanks for the news. Bemie, and congratula­tions for staying on the job. We are looking forward to seeing you in June. 
"In response to our last article we have a note 

from Tom Kcegan, whom we reported practicing 
law in Rockford, Illinois. .. . 
" 1 can't let the occasion of your "plug" go 

without comment. It seems to me that, despite 
the many complaints which appear in your col­
umn from time to time anent the silence of mem­
bers of our class, you are extremely well in­
formed. You have neatly solved a very nice 
ethical problem: a la^vyer cannot advertise him­
self, but others may advertise him. You know, 
the fine philosophical distinction between the 
direct and the indirect.* 
" 'This letter can be no more than the salute of one old classmate to another (do you realize it's nearly ten years?), because I have no news for you. I have heard no more news of John Francis Dubuisson than can be pressed out of the con­ventional phrases of greetings at Christmas time. Even notes from London and Paris some two years ago failed to move him. Murray Hickey Ley bobs up frequently, and he drops me cryptic, sesquipedalian-worded notes in the meantime.' 
" *I look forward to seeing you as well as all the others at our class meeting in June . . . the one which you say, I'm sure truthfully, will be the "biggest and the bestest." * 
"Just as we mentioned in our last article Tom. 'Even some of our best "bull sessioners" seem to have become tongue tied.' You are not the only one who has not heard a word about John Dubuisson. 
"Dick Donoghue dropped us a card from New York City, where he is living at 310 Riverside Drive and Working for the American Steel and Wire Company, with offices in the Empire State Building. In answer to our inquiry regarding the date of his marriage he replies: 'to be an­nounced after the "Third Term" issue is. settled.* Regarding the number and names of his children he replies: Srith major premise still undeveloped, how can I produce the minor premise?'. All we can add is — don't wait too long. Dick. 
"Joe Reedy .wrote lis to give his address at 5307 Aberdeen Road, Route 5, Kansas City, Kan­sas. He is now -with the Advertising Department of the Kansas City 'Star.* He was married in the Log Chapel. August 4» 1931, to Helen de Clercq 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
of St. Mary's. '30. Joe assures us that he will attend the reunion in June. He asks for the addresses of Bo lUdiards — the Muskogee Kid, and Joe Guadnola. We are sorry that we can­not furnish either of these addresses, but we can advise him to send Bo Richards' mail to Wash­ington. D. C, c-o William B. (Bill) Jones, '28, Department of Justice. Boom 2632 
*^ill Reanme, of the Department of Physical Education, is the iirst one to volunteer to be a committee worker during the reunion festivities. Bill reports that he is a member of the 1930 'Fathers' Club.' Junior is four years old. and little baby sister is only ten months. Mrs. Reaume is the former Mildred Kennedy of Mount Pleas­ant, Michigan. 
"Papa Reaume writes: 'I am now in the ninth year of teaching health education and coaching for the Detroit Board of Education. The Edwin Denby High School is the local workshop at present.' 
" 'I noticed that committees for various activi­ties are to he appointed for next June. I would like to offer my services on the Swimming Com­mittee (then maybe I will get a chance for a dip in the Rockne Memorial Pool). Teaching and coaching swimming is a great part of my pres­ent job.' 
"Thanks for your cooperation. Bill! You are hereby appointed chairman of the committee in charge of the Swimming Cami\*al at the reunion. We are still looking for a chairman of the Golf Tournament. We can guarantee you three or four good swims in the Rockne Memorial Pbol. and the same number of rounds on the golf course during the course of the celebration next June — if you can take it. 
"Jimmy Navarre writes from Hollywood: 'Just to let you have the information you asked for in the December "Alumnus" — F. James (Jimmy) Navarre married Ruth McKilHp at the Log Chapel, July 18. 1931. Ruth went to St. Mary's. We have two children, Noelle Jeanne, age 7, and F. James. II, age 4. I am now with Stanley Murphy, Inc., Commercial Pictures, after spend­ing almost eight years with Sears.' 
" 'I attended the banquet for Father O'Hara here in Los Angeles. Spent several days with "Boom Boom" Cannon while he was here with the Columbus Professional Football Team. If you want any information about the gang, you can reach me at 615 Bast I.omita Avenue. Glen­dale or 6632 Santa Monica Blvd., Hollywood, c-o Stanley Murphy.' Congratulations, Jimmy. Keep up the good work. How about rounding up the '30's of Los Angeles for the reunion at Notre Dame the first week of June? 
"That bachelor of science. Harold Simpson, ­who originally hailed from Oak Park, Illinois, wrote Tis from Forest Park. Illinois, as follows: *I am a consulting chemist, running a large farm and doing some chemical experimental work on my own hook. Only one patent to date. If any of our Notre Dame boys in the steel industries want to ship steel and prevent it from rustin;:, the patent is open to license. Also a partner in the Safeway Feed Company, and managing one section of the Acme Feeds, Incorporated. Mar­ried September 9, 1933, to Carmen Perez Simpson. Results — Carmen Marguerita, age 5. and Sylvia Diana, age 1. Another expected.' " "My most important chemical feat to dale was the discovery of an idea to prevent a disease in hogs called Necro, which is caused by a food deficiency. Yes, business is good, thank you.' 
" 'My regards to all the boys of the class of 
•29-'30. When I was in New York this fall, I saw Jim Rorka. He tells me he is working $n the collection department of one of the big banks. Jim Decly is still -n-ith Brooklyn Gas. the leader of a young group of sales managers, and making the other members of the gas industry sit up and take notice.' 
"If we knew anj-thing about chenustry or an­imals, we would like to sit in on a confab be­tween Harold Simpson and Art Reyniers at the reunion. This should be an interesting discus­sion of pigs and guinea pigs from a bacteriology ical standpoint. 
"By the way, we had a letter from Art Rey­niers the other day. in reply to our soggestion that a number of the '30's may be interested in an inspection tour of his new Laboratories of Bac­teriology during the reunion. 
"We quote Art as follows: "Ibis is to assure all of you a most cordial invitation to visit the Laboratories any time, and especially in June. Don't worry about contaminating the "bunnies," they are well protected.' 
*'Perhops, between Jim Armstrong and others, we can arrange some sort of program for those of you especially interested or professionally sit­uated. 
"Thanks for your invitation. Art, and be sure to wish your 'pals' a Happy Easter for me. 
"From Franklin, Pennsylvania, we have a line from the former president of the Qiemists' Club and assist editor of the 'Catalyzer,' Thomas Grant Murphy. Tommy originally hailed from Petrolia, Pennsylvania, and was graduated as a bachelor of science in chemical engineering. 
"He writes as follows: *I have just noticed your "Information Please" request in the Decem­ber "Alumnus," and T hasten to apply for a size­able handicap for the golf tournament. At the five-year reunion I didn't do so well until we reached the 19th — this time I want to fortify myself beforehand, and I*II certainly appreciate it if you'll take care of this small matter.' 
'* 'Bob Wcschcr of Erie, Pennsylvania, BUI Knapp of Meadville, Ptennsjivania, and I are all planning to be present at the June activities. I hope you are successful in getting everyone back 
— even to Charles Yaegcr Derby, formerly of Texas, but now of Peru, South America.* 
" 'Back here in the PennsyhTinia oil fields, we are busier than ever making the world's premium lubricating oils (facts and figures available upon request).' 
"Tommy is chief chemist for the Franklin Re­fining Corporation, and he lives at 1136 Chestnut Street in Franklin. He was married October 6. 1934, and his wife's name is Dana. His daughter, Dana, was bom November 12, 1935, and Junior Tommy, was born June 25, 1939. 
"Best of luck, Tom, between now and June, and we'll see you at the reunion. Don't worrj* about the 19th hole. Everj-thing will be well in hand by that time. 
"All the way from Pawtucket, Rhode Island, we have a line from an undertaker by the name of Leo 3fcAIoon, ex. '3D. 
"Leo gives us the following news: 'After read-in the December "Alumnus" message, written by you to all '30 men, I thought that I would take this opportunity to let you know that Rhode Is­land is still on the map and that only recently, (^nc Alahoney wrote to me from .Jamestown, New York, to let me know that, as I pass that way next June when I'm heading for N. D., he will be the big fellow standing near the town pump, thumbing his way westward. I hope that the recent bride, Mrs. Mahoney. doesn't change her mind and keep old "Roaring Bull" at home.' 
" 'Speaking of the various members of the class. I had a card at Christmas from Moon Mulllns and all his tribe. For the first time in many years; I missed hearing from Tom Kerrigan, dur­ing 1939. Perhaps the Chicago law business Is keeping him too busy to write. While at the N.D.-Army game. I met Tom Noon, former pre­fect in Carroll dorm. Tom is fine and is Ii\'ing in Brooklyn. I also met Gas Bnckholtx of Con­necticut, and, from the manner in which he was doing the Laba Slam slap on the dance floor, he hasn't grown a bit old. 
'* 'Jim Armstrong stopped off in R. I. here previous to the Army game, and he gave ns all the "campus dope." * 
•••Jim (Pete) Murray is still practicing law in Batavia. New York, and I called at his office last spring, although Pete was out at the time. Saw Hario Nardone, ex. '30, this summer past, as he was cruising around Long Island Sound, and had stopi>ed in at Block Island for gasoline. Mario is now owner of the LaCT&sa Hotel at Westerly, 
R.I.' 
"Leo KfcAIoon is a funeral director of the firm of V. J. McjVloon & Son, 213 Garden Street, Pawtucket. He was married to Agnes Coon^. April 17. 1933. Junior is five years old now and has a baby sister by the name of Nancy and a baby brother by the name of Vincent. 
"Congratulations on the family, and thanks for the news, Leo. We are looking fonivard to seeing you and Gene Mahoney in June. 
"We have Jim Armstrong and Bill Doolcy to thank for the newly revised list of the class of '30. However, we still want these addresses veri­fied by a personal note from you, together with information regarding your business and your family . . . and whether or not you will be present on the campus when we cut the 'Anni­versary Cake' in June. 

"Here's wishing all of you a Happy Easter, and letting you know that your correspondent ex­pects an Easter greeting card from each of you who failed to send him a Christmas card. Just put the above requested information on the back of your card . . . I've got to go now." 
Joe Fay, says a note from his dad, is with the George S. May Co., management engineers, 122 East 42nd St., New York C^ty, and resides at 35-20 73rd St , Jackson Heights, Long Island, 
 Bergan, 838 E, Colfax Avenue. 
South Bend, Indlaniu 


1931 John 

From John Bergan: "The latter part of December brought news of the birth of twin sons to the Arthur Bcrgcns in New York City on the 31st and a daughter, Mary Kathleen to the Robert Hilgers of Columbus, L. diana. Bob now has three future Notre Dame students and a daughter for St. Mary's. John Lisicki is kept bus>- these days with his work for the State of New Jersey at New Brunswick and in his spare time Theresa, his young daughter, receives a lot of attention. 
"Spent a very enjoyable evening with Joe BJaney on one of his business sojourns to South Bend. Joe is with the Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company and is residing in Grand Rapids. He often sees the old furniture city gang of Joe Dceb, Joe Boyland, Haro' Klerdzinski and George 
. Jackoboice. Johnny Pulte is with his father's plumbing concern and Charlie Smith, formerly of South Bend, is working for a plumbing supply company there. 
"On January 22 the members of the class in the vicinity of South Bend held a dinner meeting at the LaSalle Hotel. About 18 members braved the subzero weather to attend and view some of the football movies. Clarence Futter, the Mish­awaka shoeman, was chairman and was ably as­sisted by RoUie Poulin, South Bend clothier, and Jim Kearney. Notre Dame law professor. Others attending were: Eddie Everett, who recently opened a realty office in the city. Howard Thorn­ton, Harold Bennett, Tom Reed. Ed Hosinski, Ed Murray, Dan Clark, Jim Keating and John Mc­Intyre. 
"Don McPartlan, Chicago attorney, was on the campus for the Bishop O'Hara consecration ex­ercises. Don has recently joined a new firm and is doing very well. Father Bonilce Motsett was listed as one of the assisting priests for the oc­casion. 
"Tom Conley and his John Carroll University cagers ^viU visit the campus early in February* 

, Tom has been highly successful at the Cleveland institution both in football and basketball. Chet  FranckovriaJc is now cneragred in the fur business in Fort "Wayne and, contrary to adverse reports, 
^ ^ is still a bachelor, even though rumors do crop up in leap year. Walt Barlow is working with an engineering firm in Amarillo, Texas, and relates that Charlie Gordon is now worldng in Dallas." 
Art Dcmby is in credit ^vork with the St. Joseph County Savings Bank, South Bend, and lives in the Mar Main Arms apartments. 
Dr. Thaddcus Goraczcwski has been reappointed county physician of St. Joseph County (South Bend) by the county board of commissioners. 
Brother Nilus, CS-C manager of the St. Joseph's farm, was early in January chosen pres­ident of the Indiana Drainage Association at a meeting at Purdue University. 
Bill ChawRO is assistant division chief of the Internal Revenue Service, 0.S. Court House, Chi­cago, having supervision of personnel work and office procedure. In same office are Dan Harris, 
•2-1. Gene Coylc, '31, John Riordan, *29. John Con­sidinc, '28, John Graves, '32, and Don Partlin, '31. Bill still lives in Aurora. Illinois, and is married. 
109 0 Herbert Giorgio, 9005 ISSth Street^ I TO A Hollis, U I., New York. 
Newspaper readers generally know that Mar­chie Schwartz, along with his assistants, Dr. Wilbur Eaton, '25, and Tom Gorman, '37, has resigned his position as athletic director and head football coach at Creighton University, Omaha. None of the three has announced new plans. 
George CuUinan is manager of the National Carbon factory and plant in Shanghai, China, and has been since 1937, according to a note from his father in New York City. Mail for George can be addressed to the American Club. Shanghai. 
Donald Wise, 110 Pleasant Street. 

1933 Joliet, Illinois. 
Ned Bradford is a representative of Harcourt, Brace & Co., publishers, 383 Madison Ave., New York Gty, according to information kindly sent in by his father, of South Bend. 
Loren Hess. South Bend, is the newly-elected president of the Holy Name Society of St. Joseph County. Frank Miles, '21, president of the St. Joe "Valley N. D. Club, is treasurer of the Holy Name group. 
Bill Wittenberg is, and has been since 1935, a county auditor in Michigan, working out of the Auditor General's Department in I^nsing. Our Lansing scout says that he is married but has no children. 
'tQ^A M- Robert Cahill. Athletic Association, I 70" t Notre Dame. Indiana. 
From Bob Cahill; 
"Well, men, here it is 1940, and I can't say it began so well for yours truly, as my dad was^ hit hard ^vith pneumonia on Christmas night. Happily, with the aid of this new drug, sylfa­pyridine, and excellent care, he's slowly making a comeback. So maybe 1940 isn't so bad after all. Follows some of the information that I've gleaned and received since our last column: 
"Here's the strangest bit of contribution we've yet received. Postmarked November 18, from Mt. "Vernon, New York, and in a distinct femi­nine hand came this letter: *Dear Mr. Cahill: For the sake of the records, is it true that Jade Hayes and Jimmy Dnnnigan, of '34, both living in New York, hold the lead in their class regard­ing offspring, each with a total of three? Sin­cerely, An "Alumnus" follower. P.S. It would be 
my neck if identity were known.' You figure it 
out, boys. I can't. Or maybe Jimmie or Jack 
can give us the answer. 
"Jack Carraody was here for Northwestern and we had a swell visit, though brief. He's located in Decatur, Illinois, now. AI Phancuf. who oper­ates from 6115 Washington Blvd., St. Louis.. Missouri, comes, through with the following: 'Thanks very much for the tickets whidi you secured for me for the Northwestern game which is now past history. Sure did enjoy myself that week-end and sorry that I didn't get a chance to see you at the time. Saw a few of the class, also Ed Murray, '31, of the Comptroller's Office. and had a chat with Lon Buckley. *2S. Saturday night. There were quite a few from St. Louis that went up with me and we held forth in the Emerald Room of the Oliver for a while Satur­day. Must say they have added something to that hotel in putting that room in. (No charge, Mgr. Devaney). Haven't any news for you re­garding class members but imagine you were kept well posted during these last two games. Con­gratulations on the fine work you are doing handling the class notes [ Cut out the salve. Phancuf, and send some names!] and I hope you bring out news about many of the fellows who haven't been heard of since years ago ('34 seems to be away off in the distant past).' 
"Ole George Menard holds forth on Station %VLS. Chicago, at 7:30 p.m. each night. I be­lieve it is. I've heard his polished diction sev­eral times, via radio, but the short-legged one hasn't shown here for years. 
"Ray Gilgcr, of Ottumwa, Iowa, sends me an announcement of John W. Gilger bom November 18, to whom our hearty congratulations. 
"And here's a letter from Jack Egan. recently cloistered as we told you before, at Callicoon, New York: 'This letter has been in the works for some time as I have meant to tell you about the new pursuit and congratulate you on your new duties as secretary of our class [plug, plug]. . . . My dad told me he had a visit with you when he was in South Bend and thanks for your courtesy to him . . . the fellows around here (about 
140) are all about college age and the first foot­ball -Saturday carried me right back to South Bend. I never saw such a bunch for backing 
N.D. You'd think they were part of the place, they showed so much enthusiasm. In fact, all year I have been sort of a little tin god on foot­ball matters pertaining to scohol—as if I knew anything about football in the first place. Inci­dentally. I get the "Alumnus" from home up here and these guys read it as avidly as I do. It al­most seems as if I were back at school, but instead of listening to "Big Mac" I'm cracldng two years of Latin in one so that I can go into the Novitiate next year. And here, pointing out a slight error on your part, although it isn't jealousy of the publicity—it isn't the Third Order of Franciscans but the regular Friars Minor. [My apologies. Jack. I knew the Third Order as a laymen's organization and it just slipped]. Clare Hellwig wrote me about Jim Moscow going up to Mundelein and I am veo' glad to hear of it. My best regards to him. Now all we need is Charley Jahr signed up! I have heard from Gil Coyne a couple of times and he is very n'ell. He has Joe Simon living with him don'n at the place I used to live. He also told me that Fran Toomcy 
has a new job with the State and that Bob Sal­livan has taken over Fran's old job. We have a fellow up here who was at N.D. last year as a freshman—Joe Shaffner. Thanks again for your favor . . . say a prayer for me now and then. • Sincerely, Jack Egan, St. Joseph's Seminary, Cal­licoon. N. Y..' 
"Gents, there seems to be a little increase in letters this time, but don't relax—remember, there wasn't any isue last month. Keep coming with them, and we may then have a column to rival even that space-filler Hochreiter. 
"Curse it. I haven't the Christmas cards at hand from the '34 men. but those I recall were from Ed Moran in Chicago, and from Dick Mullen, 73S Woods Avenue, Los Angeles. He says to give his best wishes to Jim Moscow, as he didn't have his address, and wants to know what happened to Charlie C«rr, ex. '34. and BUI Banman, ex. '35. All right. Charlie and Bill, get busy and vrnte a letter and tell ol* Dick what happened to you, 
"John McLaoghlin, of Providence, dropped in the other day. ha\*ing been here for the conse­cration of Bialiop O'Harm, a grand spectacle, in­cidentally (the consecration, not McLaughlin). He's looking fine and doing very well as an ale and liquor distributor in Providence. He's a bit stouter and shy a few more hairs, but otherwise just the same. 
"Art Gartland, here from Dorchester, told me that Harry Roekett is a smoothie lawyer in 'Bahston' and wanted to be remembered to all of us. How about a little inside stuff, Roekett, via the U.S. mails? 
"Bud McNichoIs, who gets around the country extensively for a scrap metal company, dropped me a note from Newark to say that he'd just ridden down the elevator in the Essex House there in which elevator he saw an object behind a bush. He further said the object turned out to be Harvey Rockwell, and the bush was his mus­tache. Seriously, he says Harvey is looking grand and doing well with a precision instrument firm. Write longer letters, McNichoIs. We're wonder^ ing if you're still wearing the Cleveland Indians* jacket. It bothers us to think that perhaps that traditional bit of apparel may have disappeared like the cinder paths. 
**Ed Sherman writes to say he's now vacation­ing in San Francisco (from Helena, Montana) and his address is Apartment 207, 1401 Jones Street, San Francisco. He told me he hadn't been able to locate Charley Shea in Frisco, and would I look up the address. I found that the reason for his inability to ferret out Mr. Shea is that Shea lives in Portland. Oregon, which, to us midwestemers is just a short trip from San Francisco. 
"The KeUey boys came through well this time —a letter from Bob and one from John, or is it Richard, which see: From Bob Kelley, who works out of South Bend: 'Here is some belated news from the Army game, and various way points in Indiana.. Your warning to all the boys in the East must have taken effect because try as I might I came home from my vacation without any silver. At the reunion and rally before the Army game 1 saw Joe Condon, now a struggling lawyer, on his own and not one of Grover "Wha­len's yes men; Pan] Kane, who helps "Vincent Astor fake care of his property and figures the upkeep of the yacht; Pat Carroll, another busi­nessman in New York. Bill Powell was there with his bride of two months, and was going to Washington to join the FBI to get guys like yon. Bob. Didn't see Norb Rasdier but heard he was head of a bottling works in Altoona. Pa., and doing right well. Also saw Jimmy Dunnigan. an­other lawyer, Jim Reeves, Jim Reville, who has an engineering firm and fiits hither and yon on his jobs. Red Hoyt, ex-trackman was on the committee for the New York Club and seemed rather upset when he couldn't put six more peo­
ple at our table (built for 10) which already had 
14. Bob Halpin was selling tickets, as usual. By the way. I hear he is interested in Crown Point, Indiana, the town from which I happen to be ^vriling this. How about it. Bob I On the way back from Yankee Stadium saw Hector Mariani who is selling macaroni to all and sundry in New York. Sorry I didn't get to see Ralph Else when we were up in his country at Fulton, N. Y. Write me, Ralph. I see Harry Hombredit almost every week in Fort Wayne. He is designing houses for a real estate firm and is moving into one of his 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
own design this week — such confidence! See Jack Lofran there too once in a -while. Another lawyer—is there no end to these lavrj-ers? Paul ftbnoski is in Huntington, Indiana, still helping the Bidiop edit "Our Sunday Visitor." He told me he -wanted to come up for the Five-Year Re­union but his brother said his first Mass that Sunday, so Paul couldn't miike if 
" *Ed f itzmaurice, the ardiitect, is in New-York trying to make New York scat-conscious— theatre seats. If you see two Eds coming down the street, that's h e He's put on a little -weight, to put it mildly. Of course you knew Ed Fisher has taken Prof. Payton's place in the South Bend Association of Credit Men, and that his -wife just presented him with another son, -with red hair, just like hers. I was near Mundelein in Decem­ber, so stopped to see Jim Moscow, but couldn't wait until regular visiting hours. Met some of his relatives and they said he was fine. Next time, Jim, I'll wait longer. Well, Boh, I think I'm running out of news so will quit until I see more of the gang. Considering all the work you do you're doing a grand job as secretary.* [Sec­retarial note—See?] 

"And another from Kcllcy: 'After five years of very spotty contact with Notre Dame, and various graduate clubs, I have decided to get into the fold. Since coming to St. Louis last spring, I have more or less faithfully kept in touch ^vith the Notre Dame Club here. The -weekly lunch­eons and periodic meetings have been very pleas­ant, and in a burst of enthusiasm at the last meeting I promised Bob Hcllrung, *30, that I would write the St. Louis Club letter every month, or as required. As I sit here and think of it, it strikes me as very amusing that T, Dick KcIIcy, wanderer de luxe, should be -writing the news for a Notre Dame Club in a city in which I have lived just II months. In an attempt to condi­tion my thinking Notre Damc-wise, I have been reading a few copies of the "Alumnus" that Bob Hcllrung was kind enough to lend to me. But he has so few that I am still very lost. If it isn't impossible, I would appreciate your sending me all the copies for the past five years, or as many as you -can. Bob, if you can't send them, I'll pick them up next June when I plan to come up for graduation, and drive my brother. Black Mike Kelloy, a junior in St. Ed's, home.' 
" 'News ? In '37 and '3S I used to see John 

Vcnablcs occasionally in Cleveland. Harry Mc­Gowan, ex. '34, Pittsburgh, would stop in to see me as he covered his territory for Bakelite. He has since married, and I am no longer on his route, so no more McGowan. Mike Fox and I had a fine visit and lunch last fall in Indianap­olis. "We covered things pretty well, but I'll he darned if I can remember anj-thing he told me. Mike is married, you kno\4*, and %'erj" happy. Here in St. Louis I see almost too much of Gene Strong and Tom McDcrmott, both ex. '34. who manage to beat me every now and tlien in a handball game at the Missouri Athletic Club, where I am entrenched as one of St. Louis' hap­piest bachelors. - . . George Bruno, next to me the most unprepossessing English major of *34, hides out some place here in St. Louis. Last I heard, he was teaching English at Normandy IBgh School, and had his~ "Master's." I was sur­prised but highly gratified to read of Jim Mos­cow's decision. My congratulations to him. Somewhere, in a long past issue of the "Alum­nus," I noticed a request for news of John R. KcUey, Marmion, Aurora. Illinois. I am he. Rob­ert, only now I go as Richard E. KcIIey, sales promotion manager. Midwest District, "Westing­house Electric Supply Co., St. Louis, Missouri. .Well, it's good to be back—I'll see you in June. And, if anything hot comes to my attention, I'll write to you.' Sec, guys, how easy it is? OV Father CahiU just brought another lamb back to the fold, or should we say slaughter? Dick en­
closed some foldm' money for alumni dues, too. 
"And now, chillun, here's the last letter, from or Walt Kennedy, formerly of Stamford, Conn.: 'E\*ery time I come out to the campus, you seem too busy to even answer the 'phone, let alone conduct the corresiwndencc and news of the class of '34. So I thought that I would drop a line with some news to help out the situation, even though you should have plenty of time to your­self now that Mr. Laydcn has given up for the season and has hit the "mashed potato circuit." In November I left my job as athletic director at St. Basil's Prep in Stamford, where I had been for a couple of years, to go with the Mac­millan Publishing Co. This position has a lot of traveling connected with it, and as a result, I run into a good many of tlic boys of '34. So from time to time I'll drop you a line as to their whereabouts and activities. Down New York way, a hotbed of '34ism, you can just -walk along Broadway and be sure to stumble into one of the guys. Jimmy Dunnigan, boss of campus pol­itics in our days, is in the law business in the city, still as runty as ever, but with the old time Dunnigan smile and personality. [Note: Say. who 
doesn't see Dunnigan. Next issue we'll award a prize to the man who han't seen Dunnigan. In case of a tie. duplicate etceteras will be etcete­raed]. Joe Condon is in the New York branch of the Travelers Insurance Co.'s legal dept. Last fall I stopped one night in Canandaigua, New York, and spent a lovely evening with Jim Gart­land and his wife. Jim works for the County Social Sen'ice, hai'ing left a previous position in Washington, D. C, to return to his home town. Jim married a South Bend girl, Mary Herman. On that same trip I just missed seeing Father Ed Seward, who was ordained in Rome last spring and is now situated at St. Margaret's in Cleve­land. Father Ed spent a couple of days with me in Sbimford when he returned from Rome and the collar hasn't changed that Elyria personality and subtle humor.' 
" 'In and around my home section of Stamford, there are several '34ers. Al Panella lives in New Canaan, a suburb, and has a swell job as the laboratory man for some big concern. Bob De-vine is a rising young la^\-yer in Norwalk, having just been elected to one of the higher political oflicGs in the city. His brother. Jack, is in the automobile business, also in Norwalk. Some time ago I was walking down Broadway in a rather crowded section one night, and Sylvester Poppc, who used to "pop them in" for the old Howard Hall basketeers, stopped us. He "with -with his wife [a diplomatic way to put it, Walt, instead of his wife was with him], they li\*e on Long Island I think Syl said, and he is -with the l^lon Fastener Co. That't about all for this time. Maybe I can scare something up for you next issue. I plan to be out on campus for the Illi­nois game Feb. 3, so will sec you at that time.' 
"And so, boys of '34, that's all until next issue. All mss, will be gratefully received and published. Adios . . . Cahill." 
Bill Green, of Sioux City, Iowa, is now teaching engineering subjects in St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas, as the result of a connection through Uia Placement Bureau in the Alumni. Office. 
Recent notifications to the Alumni Office:' Louis Coffman, formerly of South Bend, now re­sides at 981 Debbe Lane, Cincinnati; George E. Arnold, formerly of Mishawaka, is a junior ac­countant in the benefit payment section of the Unemployment Compensation Division. Indianap­olis : Joe Brady is manager of a shoe store at 510 North Main St., Mishawaka. 
Sergeant Dan Keogan, of the South Bend police, is in Washington, D. C, for a three-month course in the national police academy operated by the FBI. To succeed him. Patrolman Ridiard Gillcn has been promoted to the rank of ser­geant. 
Franklyn C Hochretter, 530 Saint 1935 Peter St , New Orleans, Lonbiana. 
From F. C. H.: "Christmas has come and gone and we are well started into the year of years for the class of '35 — the first reunion year when all the lads -will be trotting back to the Dome, some of them will be bringing their lassies with them, we hope, and for three days there will be much renewing of friendships, exchanging of job news and in­troducing of the new Missus. The holiday season brought us many greeting cards and each and every one had a message of anticipation for the big week-end. Incidentally, Mr. and Mrs. Scribe want to thank all of the gang for the swell way in which you remembered us at Christmas, We enjoyed every card, and especially those that carried with them a personal message. 
"The first big news of this time to press is to announce the chairman for the reunion. We did a lot of thinking about it, and after double check­ing with tlie office, we asked Prexie Tom Proctor to take the job. He said he would accept only on the condition that -ive would be co-chairman with him. We have accepted his condition and appreciate his willingness to handle what will be a real tough assignment. It will be Tom's business to line things up in South Bend for the program, see that you all have a pillow under your heads, and in general keep several hundred '35ers (and their families) happy. In the meantime we shall try to plug the pub­licitj', keep the reunion before you, and with the cooperation of the office get letters and cards out to you. So what do you say to pitching right in and giving the chairman a little cooperation ? We'll both need your help and suggestions. As we said before — this is your reunion, and we want it to satisfy everybody if possible. If there is anything you particularly want in the line of a program, plcise drop us or Tom a line. Tom is at 108 North Michigan St., Elkhart, Ind., and our address is at the head of Uic column. We w-ould prefer your writing New Orleans rather than our Chicago address. 
"We received very little correspondence since our last endeavor, but a swell letter from Pat Fisher did help out the cause in the usual Fisher way. Pat, like several of our other faithful cor­respondents, comes through about once a year in noble manner. 
**You might be interested in knowing, Pat, that your 'social work' friend is now pursuing some work here at the University. She is not married and has had her tonsils successfully cut out of her upper regions. 
"With Pat's permission we are going to quote his letter in full. You -will find some repetition on last time re: the New York angle of the Army game, but Pat puts a new light on the affair. 
" 'After the Georgia Tech game I saw Bill Schroedcr and his very charming wife. They were finishing up their honeymoon. Also, Karl Fulnccky who is still county athletic director in Frankfort, Indiana. Orland Talcs was also there with his wife (also very fancy). They were mar­ried last summer in a ceremony at whic-h the aforementioned southern gentleman and the "story-teller" (ask Fcnion) were official wit­nesses. Bill is practicing law, and "Roscoe" is still in the liomc town,' 
" 'The big affair, of course, was the Army game. I'll try to include everyone I saw, but it will be tough. I spent the week-end -with Jim Shells and his make-you-feel-at-home family out in New Rochelle. Jim is now with the National Association of Casualty and Surety Executives which keeps tab on all of the fake claim artists for the insurance companies. He spends his eve­nings at Fordham Law. Jim Dwyer was do^vn from Hudson Falls. He's still with the paper company up in Glens Falls, N. Y. — had been in their N.Y.C. office till they abandoned it. 
Frank Weldon came from Erie, Pa., where he is now located with Birdscye. He says Bill Lord is also there now. Gene "Sire-arm" O'Reilly was there with Pat, the Missus. I don*t know how he grot her — it must have been his early train­ing at the institute. Believe it or not, they have an image — "Ole Hippy O'Reilly." We all had quite a session in the Pennsylvania after the pamc — it was all too short.' 
" *Joc Bittncr was there, and if I'm not mis­taken he told me he was practicing law. It's hard to remember when you see so many new faces at once. Eddie Bracken was there too — doesn't travel any more, permanently located in Brooklyn. I believe. Ray Brodcrick was very much in evidence — has a job with the Treasury Department in Washington. Red D'Arcy is in some sort of a business in Boston — supplies, I believe. He had a "charmer" with him and Broderick was likewise guilty. Jim Bowdrcn was there with his wife.* 
** 'Joe Schmidt was at the door when I entered Manhattan Center Friday night.' [Our anonymous correspondent told us last time it was Bill Schmidt, but then, a Schmidt is a Schmidt!] Tom Flynn and Phil Heinle were there as well as at the Purdue game, at the latter of which they did G^erjthing they could to get Bcmie O'Brien in the dog-house with his spouse. Vail Cliff told me he was with an airline — United. I believe. Walt Bro%vn was there from Hazelton. I spent 
•juite
 a bit of time with John Donovan, but for­got what he is doing. Saw Jack and Mrs. Ed­wards on the field after the game. Roommates Tom Gallagher and Joe O'Kane were among the crowd — Tom is no longer at the Midston House, but don't ask me where; Joe is coaching in Troy, 

N.
 Y., T think.' 


" 'Saw Harr>* Gafncy from a distance in a crowd. Also saw Louie Grosso and Vince Hogan Friday night. Politician Joe Kalcy couldn't stay around long Saturday night because he had to get hack to give a campaign speech. He ran for town clerk, but, like all good Democrats, he was defeated — not badly, however, score: Kaley 761: opponent 923. In fact, Joe be.^t him in two dis­tricts. Bill Moss was at Manhattan Center Fri­day, but I can't recall our conversation. The same, I'm sorr>' to say, goes for John Lively and Jim McDcvitt. Banjo Maffc! was seen outside Yankee Stadium before the game. John Nccson was there with the girl. Bill Murtha and Red Tourney were together in the Penns>"lvania. I saw Jack Raincy several times over the week-end. One of the frequently-heard stories was that Jack Matthews and Art Carey were G-men, Jack in 
. New Orleans.* [That's right about Jack; we called his office during the holidays but he was out.] 'Everyone was emphatic in the belief that Jim Corrigan would be a success in his new vocation, priesthood.* 
" 'In the guestboofc at Ross* Tavern I saw the names of many members of the class, "singing" John Ryan, the Pluto Kid, is one of those I remember.* 
" 'I'm sure you'll be happy to know T saw Tommy Thompson looking the picture of health at the Southern Cal game. He said that he felt it and that added weight contributed much to that feeling. Duke and Mrs. Walters were seen in front of the main gate. Had a session with Jack Robinson, Jim O'Mcara and Bob Hcnneber­gcr after that game. Jack's still at the Exchange 
— Jim's still in West Bend, and I forget what Henneberger is doing. Also present was Dr. Beanie Cavcndcr who is interning at De Paul Hospital in St. Louis — he is one of St. Louis' best butchers, I understand. Jim CoIIeran was there with a local "charmer." He passed his 
C.P.A. the iirst crack, and left Ross, Lybrand Bros. & Montgomery for another company. Bill Burkhardt and Lou Hruby were in the Caf Sun­day morning. Jim Gronin and Ray Brett were two I saw in the Prairie Steak House. I also saw Fred Locke Morris in the Oliver and Norb Toussaint in the Hoffmann. I heard that Jack Shodron and Jim Glenn were there, but didn't see either of them.* 
" 'Ray Oakcs and Tom LaLondc were at sev­eral games, and I saw Link Wurzer at one of the earlier ones.' 
" 'Clarence Pickard. Joe Beck and Dick Schaeer are still with the Bell Telephone here. John Bren­nan is in town now with the Public Service Com­pany. Don "F^ppy" Felts is still with Indian Refining. Jack Slattcry is in Fort Wayne, and Pat Quiglcy is remaining here but I don't see him often. That also goes for Art Kranzfelder. Joe Argus continues real estating-* 
" 'Maurice Fairhead was in town when I was gone. I believe that he is still in law at St. Louis tr. Walt Matuscvich was also in while I was sojourning. He works for an engineering outfit at Rockville. near hero. Don Havcrick was in town when the Buckeye Union Insurance Co. hfld a regional meeting. I attended their banquet, but they got even — I bet the president of the company on the Southern Cal game. I do hereby solemnly nominate Donald R. Havcrick as the man in the class who has put on the most pounds 
— and I do mean fat. At Buckeye Union they call him "Crisco." ' 
" 'Jim Osgood is adjusting here for Aetna. Bob Slalamcy is with N.L.R.B* Paul Guamieri, Fran Dunn and Tony Scolcro were at the South­ern Cal match — all practicing, Mike Tacklcy is in a law office in Malone, N. Y. — saw him at the Army game shopping for a girdle. Was out with Pete Viviano in St. Louis several months ago — he's doing exceptionally well in the prac­tice. I'm eating three times a day. Art Mul­holland. the advertising tycoon, was seen every­where — always looking more prosperous. Ray Martin has given up the law, but I forget what he is doing instead — oh yes, he's credit mana­ger for some outfit in Chi.' 
" 'Bill Schrocder said he couldn't make reunion. Jim Dwj-er, Gene O'Reilly, Frank Weldon, Joe Kalcy, and maybe Jim Shells are coming here for the race May 30, and we are all going up to 
N.D. the next day/ 
" 'Here is hoping for a successful reunion, Hoch 
— keep talking it up.' 
"Pat put in a postscript, so we'll give it to you as it comes. . . . 
" "I knew I'd forget some of the boys, so we're off again . . . Jim Kelly was also at Alanhattan Center Friday night before the Army game. Mel Harper was in from the ranch country giving atmosphere to the Pennsylvania with his ten-gallon Stetson on Friday night.' 
*' 'Joe Drueckcr is in town with Linde Air Products, a division of Union Carbon and Car­bide. Went do^vn to his Brown County Cabin recently — quite a spot.' 
" 'Received a letter from Carlos de Landcro last week. He is now in Mexico City — no longer with the Real del Monte Co. He is now a geolo­gist for the government. He expected to visit the States but the new job came at the wrong time.* 
"Well, that is what we call a real news dis­penser. If it were not for the Fishers, Proctors, Sluszkas, IloUahans and our mysterious corre­spondent of the last time, we would have a pretty tough time knocking out a column every month. How about it, fellas — can't we stir you out of your Ictharg>-? Even if you have been taking it cozy for four years — this is the time to wake up and let us know you are alive. 
"Tom Proctor sent along a clipping or two re­cently. He has entered the law practice with his Dad in Elkhart and shares the letterhead -with the senior partner. Toward the end of the year, Tom was elected president and named to the board of directors of the Elkhait, Ice Cream Company. Tom was also again chairman of the annual in­fantile paralysis campaign in the native town. But. to top it off, the Prexie was appointed Elk­hart city chairman of the Indiana State Bar as­sociation committee on membership. Tom is real­ly carrying on the ole tradition, and we are proud to have him as our co-chairman for the first reunion. 
"Last time we asked for news on CamiUe Gravel. Well, we have it in the form of a wedding announcement. Camille was married on Sunday, November 26 to Katherine David in Pineville, Louisiana. That is iust across the bridge from native Alexandria. La. Lots of luck, kid — see you and the bride at reunion. 
"All of which reminds us, checking over the familiar columns at the head of Personals the last issue we find felicitations in order for an­other *35er. Charlie Montgomery married Miss Madge Donovan on November 23 in North Brad­dock, F^. The congratulations of the class, Char­lie, for health, happiness and success. 
"And to the family of John Tingley, of Nor­wich, Cona., the class extends its sincere condol­ence. John died November 20 after an illness of two weeks. He leaves a wife and a baby daugh­ter. We want Mrs. Ilngley to know that the class offers its prayers for the repose of his soul. 
"A message to Steve Banas. Sorry, Steve, but we have no dope on the whereabouts of Nick Lukats. Maybe a card to Alumni Office would help. Steve and wife, Dorothy, are to be felici­tated on the birth of another daughter on Novem­ber 9. Cheer up, fella — you may be able to send a son to N.D. with all those St. Mary's daughters yet. 
"Lou Dunn wrote at Christmas that he is man­
aging a Woolworth Store in the home town of 
Springfield, Mass. Glad to hear from you, Lou. 
"We received a short note from Tom LaLonde 
late in November. Tom continues to be busy on 
the road with those kiddies shoes. 
"We think it fitting that the class of '35 should extend to Bishop O'Hara its sincere congratula­tions on his new office and his new appointment. We regret that he is to leave Notre Dame, but we hope that his heart will always remain with the campus and his memories of his student chats in the Tower Room of Sorin Hall will often prove comforting when his new position presents the desire to escape the reality of public life. 
"That's about it for this time, gang! We are anxiously awaiting to hear from you on the re­union. How about a card with your new ad­dresses and your suggestions for the program? So long till March." 
Karl Schueppert is a paint chemist with the Hlinois Paint Works, 1034 South Kostner Ave., Chicago, and resides at 4056 West Washington Blvd., Chicago. 
Bob Jassoy's home address is now 2204 Belmont Blvd., Nashville, Tenn. 
Charlie AtarbauKh, formerly of South Bend, is a salesman for the Indianapolis Blueprint Co. and resides there at 1322 North Alabama St. 
Anthony Kuharich, South Bend, is the new probation officer for City Judge George Schock. A handsome picture of the two alumni recently graced the "South Bend Tribune." 
Spencer Walton, city attorney in Mishawaka, was recently re-elected president of that city's Exchange Club. 
Charlie Maher, Atwood, Kansas, is county engi­neer of Rawlins County. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
 Moran. 61 E. 95th St., Apt. 2, 


1936 John 
New York City. 

From John Bloran: "We are iromins out of our usual winter hibernation to take a quick look around, shoot along some dope to you 1x>ys, and retire again. But not for too long we hope . . . Feh. 10 •will see lis in Hadison Square Garden when the Irish tangle with the high-stepping N.Y.TJ. quintet. "We hojpe to see some of you sport-minded alumni on hand to cheer the NJ>. bo>*s. 
"However, for this issue, we will hack-track a bit and acknowledge the many gracious Christmas cards we received from many of you. Particular­ly are we grateful to those who utilized this op­portunity to insert a note, or put a little news about themselves on the back of their cards. Alan Donovan wrote that he graduated from Har­vard Law School last June, passed the Connecticut bar, and is currently working for the TVavelers Insurance Co. in Bridgeport. In addition, AI states that he will be on hand for the N.D.­N.Y.IT. contest. Ihanks for the information about yourself, AI, and for those of you who are looking for his address, here it is: 91 Sanford Place, Bridgeport, Conn. 
"A very attractive card from Tom and Doro­thy Vicars had a little note correcting xis for ^ving the wrong date for their wedding. It should have been July 28 instead of the date previously recorded here. Our apologies to you and Dorothy, Tom; . . . incidentally, a line now and then would be most welcome from the two of you. "We were sorry to learn from Jerry Vogcl's card that his Dad had been seriously ill. Here's hoping that at this writing he may be fully recovered, Jerry, and that you have landed that position with the Indiana Relief Commission which will take you back home to South Bend. 
"Bill Macdonald sent his greetings from St. Louis, where he and Lindcll Kinman are boUi in their last year at Washington University Medi­cal School. Bill and Lin will graduate next June II, after which Lin will intern in the St. Louis County Hospital, and Bill ^%-ill do the same at St. Louis University Group of Hospitals. Both of the future medicos are members of Phi Beta Pi Fraternity, where Bill also doubles as Archon. Mac took time off last summer to go to England for a little stud>'ing of the English Medical pro­fesion at the Charter-house Clinic While stop­ping off in Phris he ran into Bill Shakespeare one night in Harry's New York Bar. We quote Mac *. . . that will always be a memorable night, and so will the breakfast we had!' "Wsh we could have been at that reunion, boys, for it must be particularly gratifying to bump into a class­mate in Paris, several thousand miles from Notre Dame. Anyway, we know you did justice to the occasion and the meeting. Thanks very much for all the news. Bill, and good luck in your medical work. Hope we can bend elbows with you and Shakespeare some day in Harry's . . . but not till the gang over there get a bit more peaceful. 
"Andre and Tom Proctor sent their greetings from 108 North Michigan St., Elkhart, Ind. Prom Chicago came a card from Hank, Helen, and Janet Ann Pojman (bom Oct. 31, 193S, Accord­ing to Hank's note). Hank writes that he is not busy, for all he does is practice law, coach foot­ball, and sell steel. "Whewl That's what we would term quite a schedule! In regard to your query regarding us. Hank, we have been a field investigator, ever since August, 1936, with the Internal Revenue Bureau of the U. S. Treasury Department, here in New York. The next time you pay your income tax, think of us! 
"Quite a surprise was a card from Joe, Sophie, and Rita Jo Newman .. . a surprise since we assumed that Joe was still in New York where we last saw him. On his card, however, Joe stated that he was recently transferred to' Elk­hart, Indiana, where he is now acting manager of the local office of the Social Security Board, Bureau of Old Age Insurance. Joe, who can be reached at room 506 Monger Building, sends his regards fo the boys in and around New York. One of the nicest cards came from Gil, Madeline, and Mary Patricia Moty, way out in Bend. Ore­gon. Gil's address is 1404 W. first St. Hanry Quinn enclosed a little note with his card, stating that he is practicing law in Buffalo, and not in Binghamton, N. Y., as we have reported here in the last issue. 
"In addition to the aboi'e cards w*hich contained some interesting information regarding the send­ers, we are also grateful to the following who remembered us with the season's greetings: Bob Ca^-anaugh, Vince Gorman, '35, Cy Strofccr, *37, Walt Slatuscvich, Mr. and Mrs. Wayne Thnrm, Mickey Dendlcr, Buddy Goldman, Tom Campbell, Doc Caspar, and Jack Shcchan, who faithfully promised to drop this column a letter very short­ly. Okay, Jack, we are going to hold you to that. 
"Welcome cards were also received from Joe Bandurich, Mr. and Mrs. Joe Mansfield, Jim Mac-Dcritt, '35, Bill Walsh, Jerry Gillespie, '37, Mr. and Mrs. AI Torribio, Joe Sullivan, Andy Huf­naecl. Bob Hamilton, '28, and Cliff Brown, our former roommate, and now leading legal light of Norwalk, Ohio. How about a letter now and then. Counselor? 
"Finally, we would like to express our thanks to the following for their cards: Jim Kirby, Joe WaJdron and Lin Phoebus. It was certainly nice of you all to remember us, especially since so many of you utilized the opportunity to pass along some very interesting data regarding your­selves for the rest of us. 
"Don Draper, who hadn't been heard from since Maine and Vermont used to vote the straight Democratic ticket, came through with a very welcome letter. After graduation, Don went into newspaper work, first on the Dallas (Texas) 'Despatch,' and then on 'William Allen White's Emporia 'Gazette.* At present Oon is reporting for the Garden City Daily 'Telegram,' of Garden City, Kansas. Garden (Hty, it appears, is direct­ly in the center of the *Dust Bowl' ("What I foot­ball again!) and during a dust storm it is im­possible to see across the street, in the daytime, even when the lights are on! That's really dish­ing the dtri, Don. 
"Don is in line for congratulations on his marriage, last Sept. 24, to Miss Eunice John­ston, of Burlington, Kansas. He reports having seen Don Elscr and Marty Peters, who are coach­ing at St. Benedict's College, and doing a very good job. Finally Don writes that he would like to hear from Art Huber and Bob Sullivan, both of whom he has lost track of. For that matter, we could stand a bit of a letter from both those ex-Dillon Hall occupants, so get busy pronto, boys. 
"Jerry Kane, *38, an ex-summer sdiool room­mate, wrote in from Lima, Peru, where he is with the Pan-American Grace Airways to say, among other things, that he sweltered through the South .American heat on Christmas Day. The last letter of the month came from Ralph Cardinal, who was making good on a solemn promise, given sometime during the wee hours following the Army-NJ3. game last fall, when the celebration was still raging in the Pcnn Grill. Accordingly he rounded up all the news from northern New York, and sent it in as promised. 
"Ralph started with an account of how, on driving home from the Army game with Mike Taddey, the boys were snowbound in Schroon Lake, and had to follow the snow plows into Malone, N. Y., where they arrived t\vo days after the game. Not daunted, Ralph emerged from the northern wilderness to catch the N. D. special train at Utica to the Southern Cal game. On arriving in South Bend, he checked in at the Hoffmann, only to find Joe Weiss and Bob Ha ^ Donald sleeping in his room. He proceeded to 
rout them out of bed, and they all repaired to the 'Caf* out on the campus, where they got into a bull session with Art MuIhoUand, Professors Tom Madden and Paul Fenlon, and others. Ralph reported seeing Bill O'Brien from Little Rock, Tom Reardon, '37, Bert Bauer, Tony Slazziotti, Tom Grady, Jack Gleason, Heine Bicker, Roy Barron and Bob Siegfried, '37. Jack Gleason is reported working for the Krst National Bank in Chicago, while Bert Bauer is to be married shortly to Helen Marie Weber. Others whom Ralph saw were Prof. AI Davis, Pat Fisher and two of this writer's ex-rectors. Fathers Mucfccn­thalcr and Holderith. 
"Regarding the N.D, men closer to Malone, 

N. Y., Ralph reports that Mike Tadtlcy is work­ing in a law office in that town, and that AI Seymour, *30, who was recently married, is be­coming one of the state's leading potato barons. Cy Connors, the mad %vrestler of the Bengal Bouts, is coaching at St. 'Mary's Academy, Ogdensburg. while Joe Kane is coaching in Troy, New York. Ralph would like to hear from the members of that Dillon Hall, third floor 'culture corridor,* namely Sa] Costa, Tom Bott, Tom Trcac^r, Joe Weiss, etc You boys c:an address those letters to 117 Webster St., where Ralph is in business with his Dad. However, Florida will claim his attention for about five weeks, starting Jan. 26, so you may not get a reply as promptly as you hope. Good luck. Ralph, and thanks for the let­ter, which I hope will be followed by others. 
"That about winds up the festivities for this issue. We might relate in passing that we were royally entertained by Slickey Dendlcr in Phila­delphia on Dec 2, when we hit town for the Army-Navy game. Also that here in N. Y. we bum[>ed into Ray Kenny on 42nd St., not so long ago, as Ray was out tracking down an insurance prospect. Bill Walsh has passed the N. Y. Bar (and we don't mean the Harry's New York Bar referred to above). Bud Goldman recently had the pleasure of hearing his newly published rhumba. 'Florescita,* played over the National Broadcasting Company network by the Norman Cloudier Orchestra. 
"And that is that. Keep that mailman busy. He may not be too happy about it, but we will be. The spring is coming, so why shouldn't some of you modest, retiring violets blossom into print, in your own class column?" 
Jim Conboy is clerk for the Board of Public Works and Board of Safety in South Bend and resides at 1509 South Fellow St 
Hcnrj' Gmbb is in charge of research and de­velopment for the Relay, Maryland, plant of Seagram's. 
^09 7 Paul Foley, 18036 Schocnhocr Road. IT^ / Detroit, Michigan. 
From Paul Foley: 
"Fortified w*ith a 10-inch globe, no less than six ('Count 'em six') letters and a rosy Mc­intosh apple, we sail into the chore with consid­erable ardor. Since the last batch of type left the Ave Maria office we have heard from fellow *37ers located in spots as ^videly separated as Victorias, Negro Occ, Philippine Islands, and Newton, N. J. And any way Newton looks at it. that's a sleeper hop. 
"The letter from Don Hanning, in the Philiji­pines, arrived just a shade too late for the last issue, but kept nicely until now, neatly preserved on rice paper. Before jumping feet first into Hanning's very interesting letter, we'll pause to remark that his jaw. battered in the '37 Bengal Bouts, is 0£. , but Don reports: 'I'm careful not to talk out of turn.' 
"Don says in part: 'After graduation I started out as an insurance claim investigator, along with Jack Britton in Boston. A year of that was a year too much and then I was lucky enoueh to set this job. Briefly. I'm in the plantation end of a big suerar company, learning to be a "daddy to the sugar" instead of vice-versa. I've been here a little more than a year and the longer I stay the better I like it.* 
"After consulting a jjerfeetly good Repnoglo globe, a 1917 almanac and a likely lad who dropped in for a short beer, we find that Vic­torias Island is roughly 300 miles south of Manila- "Which is indeed south. It is not too for from Zamboango and is a good strong mashie shot from the Sulu Sea. At that point you trans­fer to a Delancey Street trolley and ask the men next to you. 
"To continue with the saga of the sugar man: 'Starting out here, I had a very pleasant sur­prise. First a rousing send-ofT in New York from Cy Stroker, Pinky Carroll & Co. [Ed. Note: vice-presidents in charge of Oft-to-the-Philippincs Parties.] On the train en route to Chicago. I met Father O'Hara, on his way back to school from an Easter trip.* 
" 'Miles out in Manila Bay. a tiny putt-putt boat stuttered alongside bearing the beaming Mike Brias, Gonzales Valdes and a group of friends. Then a tour of Manila.* 
"In short. Brother Hanning seems to be doing 

O.K. over in that southpaw comer of the map. He is most anxious for letters from the boys. His full address is: Victorias Milling Co.. Vic­torias, Negro Occ. Philippine Islands. 
"From Orange, N. J., which a quick shooting of the sun shows to be exactly 5,076 miles from the above address, we get word of Francis J. Rcilly, right direct from Francis J. Rcilly. "While bombarding the 'kept press' of the nation to get them to keep him awhile. F. J. R. reports that Al Bride is still a dapper credit man for Bond Clothiers. Also that Smiling Eddie Hoyt Is around and about, or was way back at the Army game, and was then busy in some nebulous Wall Street job which kept him buried in figures five days a ^veek plus Saturday morning—sounds like the salt mines. Always alert to a real -news story, Keilly reports seeing a trio which somehow defles belief. He s^vears he saw, all at once, together, the following citizens: Frank Hardart, Joe Kadi­gan and Joe AIcNally. May be. 
"Rcilly reports that on the same evening, at a rally-meeting preceding the Army tilt (how's that for hot news?), the following were ob­ser\-ed: Gil GalUvan. of whom no further word is reported; Tom Hughes, who is somehow main­taining a connection with Frozen Foods; Basil Gerard Gillcsptc, on whom Reilly had no data. We presume Bas is still operating out of the Garden City Publishing Co. 
"Pete Cassonc is reported still studying medicine with considerable verve. Ben Sherer, pride of the Library Basement, is working on the 'Daily News' in N.Y.C. 
"Art ShauRhncssy is about ready to duck up onto the stage at Columbia for a Master's degree come lilac time. He plans to teach and at present is practicing in Lincoln School,New York. Herb Kenyon is still batting the ball, or was in No­vember, with the Macy Newspaper organization in Yonkers. Ed Ncaher is working in a law firm and studying law at night — there oughta be a law! Neaher and Reilly met at a National Cath­olic Alumni Federation dinner in the Pennsj-I­vania hotel during the fall. 
"George Feclcy, of Davis-DwTer and Fecley, enjoys marital life to the chirps of a young but oh-so-tough son, according to Reillj'. Mark Lon* ergan. on the other hand, takes the opposite ex­treme and is working for Metropolitan Life In­surance Co. It takes all kinds, doesn't it? 
"Trembling more than slightly and totting up quick mental alibis for the G-men, we popped open the mail box one evening to find a long slim envelope, ominously labelled 'Larldn Tor­pedo Co. — Nitro-GIycerine and Torpedoes.' We had been thinking peaceably enough of an in­nocent steak, done to death by a A^llainous, smothering batch of mushrooms. Quickly turn­ing on two 100-watt bulbs to dispel the shadows, we ripped the envelope to find a most peaceful letter from John I» O'Hem. who somehow got himself involved with a firm bearing the sui­cidal name 'Larldn Torjwdo Co.' But it seems they can only torpedo such things as oil wells, and such, which can probably stand a good shot in the arm now and again. 
"In short John L. reports on the Tulsa con­tingent as follows: Two additional lads of the '37 vintage have migrated to that region, namely Frank Reidy, ex of Oil City, Pa., and Carl Scnger, fugitive from Wichita, Kansas- Both boys have been in Tulsa upwards of two years. Frank is with Warren Ptetroleum Co., and Carl with Haskins £ Sells, public accountants. 
"John Shaw is married, has a new daughter and is connected with the Bennett Drilling Co.. not to mention an unexplained connection with a funeral directing enterprise. 
*'Bob Siegfried, on whom we have reported from time to time, is junior-executiving with K. 
H. Siegfried Co., one of l^Isa's leading insurance houses, or maybe the leading for all we know. 
"After a stretch with Oklahoma Pine Line Co., Bill Conry was at liberty briefly, but we tnist that is no longer the case. When last seen he was studying accounting. 
"O'Hem tells us that Clay Murray left Tulsa recently and is now located in San Diego where he is a second lieutenant in the United States Marines, We're saved, boys! And none too soon either. 
"As for O'Hcrn, he does little to dispel the mysterj* of his connection with Mr. Larkin's Tor­pedo hatchery- But there he is. And besides, he says things are very dull in the torpedo game around Tulsa. We might suggest a sales trip into, the Baltic. 
"On a neat sheet of Hammermill bearing in the upper left hand corner a charming steel en­graving of 'The Home of Lime-Crest Calcite Products,' we heard from Joe Quinn. We hesi­tate to mention it at this late date, but most of Joe's news bad to do with that pesky Army game, which in some respects is best forgotten I suppose by those who attended- Jovial Joe re­ports that he sighted Bill Foley, who has Brook­lyn in his hip pocket now that Tammany is back in the saddle over on that side of town. (Or is it out again?) John Ca%-anaugh, *as good as ever' according to Quinn, who was in the company of John Bartlcy, the magic voice of radio. 
"George Lane met up w*ith Quinn and con­fessed that he is living in the Bay Ridge section, which is apparently only slightly less heinous than robbing the dead. Quinn remarks: "The Tagncy clan was in evidence in New York.* 
"Jack Walsh, fresh from Jones* Beach, is now* giving the public a quick going-over for the Household Finance Corp. Quite a comedown for a life-saver — even a Junior Life Saver. 
"Quinn was in error when he reported that 'life insurance has Delancey Davis* — it wants no part of Delancey Davis. 
"Bill Mulrcnnan. however, is definitely in life insurance, and doing right merrily from all ac­counts. 
"We understand C. Roggenstein, of the Rock­ville Centre Roggensteins. was about in New York, slightly gouty, upholstered more than somewhat and mistaken now and again for Quinn. 
"Ferrying over Philly. (which xs impossible but alliterative) were Gene Cadie and Ed Lynmngfa, the inseparable­
"Atso reported in Qninn's epistle -waa Jim Waldron, about whom we've been wondering. In fact all we know now is that on some unnamed date he and his brother Joe were in New York with Frank Hardart and Frank Huisking. Nearby was Harry Baldwin, with a young lady. He and George Lane are still at Harvard (where they have been for the last six columns without fail). 
"Bouncing from game to game as of old. Quinn tells tales of South Bend during the week-end of the Southern Cal fracas. 
"It seems Jerry Claeys set 'em up for the as­semblage'in no mean manner. In on the festivi­ties were 'Wyoming* Mnrphy, Walt Neinabcr, with his Queen of the Queen City, Karl King, and others. 
"Ed Reardon is reported in Chicago, living with banker George Bonficld. 
"In a final wind-up, sort of a thumb nail re­view of the Eastern situation. Quinn says: 'Politi­cally I haven't much to say for Jersw [Ed. Note: Who has?} Our county is half demo and half repub. In a couple of years I will have to straighten them out.' He fails to say which of the abbreviated parties he will straighten and which way. 
"In the Yule mails were cheery greetings from the following brethren: Barney Donnelly. Bob Grogan, Jack Byrne, Jack Gillespie, Tony O'Boyle, Cy Stroker, Ed Gannon, Frank Reilly, Jack Powers, Vince Sfnrphy, Bob Pnirear. Jim AXonld­er, Joe Moore. Bill and Duke Nardone. All deeply appreciated. 
"We were thinking of signing this tome 'Mar­garet Mitchell* and publishing it in eight pocket size volumes — but it really is fun to do the stint when there's something to stint with­
''Keep those letters pouring in — there should be an even dozen before the next isoue rolls around. 
t.*On second thought, we may have crowded '38 and *39 way back there with what used to be the Chesterfield girl on the back cover, which might be a happy thought at that-" 
Elliott Cohn is with the Reliance Manufactur­ing Co., Chicago, but his home address is still listed as 1115 Riverside Drive. South Bend. 
Joe Ahlering, formerly of South Bend, who took his pre-med at Notre Dame, is just about finishing up his medicine at St. Louis University School of Medicine. 
T\vo '37 items off the cuff: Jim Sullivan is working ("working" we said) in the Indiana State Penitentiary, Michigan CSty, and Anthony Serge is assistant coach at St. Stanislaus High School. Bay St. I«uis. Miss. 
Earl B. Propp, from South Bend, is a doctor of optometry with offices at 4170 Drexel Bl\'d., Chicago. 
John E. Kelly, Registrar Riordan says, is a graduate student in the University of Alabama and can be reached at 303 Garland Hall, Uni­versity, Ala. 
The demon engraving executive. Bay McGrath, did dirt to a fellow alumnus, John Dorgan. '29, by beating him in the semi-finals of the singles handball tournament of the Lake Shore Athletic Club, Chicago. Ray is learning the family busi­ness with the Premier Engraving Co., 417 North State St. BULLETIN: He won the finals. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1Q9p Harold A. Williams, 216 East Lake ' '^ Q Avenac, Baltimore* Maryland. 
From Hal Williams: 
"Scattered among- some -withered holly, a twis of ineffectual mistletoe, a piece of track from my new electric train, and a few chipped Christmas tree ornaments, are some Christmas cards, a few letters, two engagement announcements, and one shining New Year's resolution, viz., to have copy in on time during the coming year. 
"First for the Christmas cards. The following classmates kicked throtig-h with cards bearing only a name and a beautiful sentiment: Ed Bartnctt, Tom Gorman, Nick Lambcrto, 'Bud' Sherwood, Gene Vaslctt, John Sdicmmcr (31% Mullen street. Cambridge, Mass.), Brother Bcrtrand. O.P., (Bill Mahoney), Stanley J. AMiite, Stanley J. Partyka (419 Spooner avenue, Plainfield, N. J.) John Clcar>', Ed R. (the old (Allocator) Hacirar, J. J. Gorman, Jr., Nelson J. Vogcl, Jack (more about him later) Crowley, and Rose and Tom Hutchin­son (this card being 13 by 22 inches). 

Later: I found Ed Bartnctt's letter tucked in between two hills. Here it is; 'My own personal news amounts to little enough. Just the old stuff — work and play. . . . Recently Fve seen the old standbys. Chuck Beasley and Bill Gallin. Chuck is alwut the same, but since you've gone lo press — or am I late? — Bill has become engaged. Ring, announcement, and even*thing — he's really hooked. Some of the other standbys I haven't seen lately although I did see Bill Arnold at the movies last night. He's still at Columbia Law. In the Village a few weeks ago I was talking to a '39er, the radio man Norbcrt Aleksis. Jim Sullivan is still at Pilgrim State Hospital out on the island (working, not being cared for), and casting covetous eyes at the for­eign ser\*ice game. He took an exam for it, but hasn't heard anything yet.' 
" 'Let's go back to the Southern Methodist game. I went up to Chicago first, and my initial mo\'e was to go to the top floor of Commonwealth Edison, and look at John Bourkc, perched pros~ perously behind a big desk. Then I saw English Major Bob Mullen for the first time since I put him in that taxi in London more than a year ago. He seems to have found his hotel all right, and even got back to America to fall into the clutches of Sears Roebuck. He's putting on a lot of weight. With Bob was Jim Walsh, who has dragged himself away from the hotel business in Beatrice, Nebraska, and set himself up as a student of international affairs at the University of Chicago. . . .* 
" 'It started to rain as soon as T got on the 

N.D. campus, and there was a lot of %\ind. I felt I had never been away. John Duke Ellis, who started in our class and is finishing up a couple of absences, put me in Sorin sub. Then I pro­ceeded to bump into all sorts of guj*s who are still there — finishing up law, taking graduate work, or. as I suspect in some cases, still hang­ing around. Among this gigantic group I recall seeing" such stalwarts as Viv Mcrcado, Jim Bur­gess. Bill Mahoney, Lou DaPra, Ed Grogan, Bob Dcrengogski, John Donnelly. Swede Bauer, Chuck Duke, Paul Anderson, Bill Bradford, Jack Wil­son, George Slorris. Han y Norris, Ed Von Hoclebckc, and a bunch of others.* 
" 'Then there were the fellows back for the game: Rusty Johnson was there, but I can't re­call his occupation. Chuck Metzger came down after covering the Iowa-Michigan game for the "Sun"; he's still working up in Lansing. Jack Mahoney was up from Ashtabula; he's doing some sort of government contact work around the Midwest, Saw George Smith and Hank Theis for a few minutes, but didn't find out what they were doing. Frank Delaney -was up; he's doing sales work around the J^Iidwest for, I think, his Father. Bumped into Larry Dillon and Bob Mahar. Jack Bond is doing engineer­ing work back in Ohio; saj-s brother Tom is on 
the home-town ne%vspaper. Al Grimm, if I recall correctly (it was late in the evening for both of us — at the Hoffmann bar) is doing something with a label company, or something. It's all very vague. Saw, too, the play\vriting Prof. Dick Sullivan, which might be of interest to the Eng­lish majors. Did 1 tell you, when I saw you in Baltimore, that I bumped into Tex Haggar in New York? Well, that's the list. Oh, there were dozens more, but I can't remember them all. .. . Fra still terribly busy, even though one of my 
• jobs — football correspondence — is now ended. Maybe I told j-ou at the Penn bar that I'm ^vrit­ing a full-length play. . . . Before I finish, here's another note. I got a letter from George Kerwin recently. He's still working down in Oklahoma and is very happy about the whole thing.' 
"Thanks, Ed, and apologies for losing sight of your letter for a few days." 
"The classmates who did their Christmas shop­

ping early and had time to pen a few words to 
their card were: The Colonels. Bub Crowley and 
Joe Thomburg (115 Arcadia Fhrk, Lexington, 
Ky.) who penned, 'Remember Lyons sub. the 
girls from the laundry, and the K. of P. Hall?* 
. . . John R. (Moose) Waters, Jr., who said 
somewhat apologetically, 'Slaybe in a month or so 
I'll get over my laziness, and drop you a line.' 
. . . Scott Rcardon who wrote, 'Yes, this is a 
late date, and it is Christmas again, but honestly 
I have been hoarding a small bundle of personal 
notes which I will forward to you in January or 
before that time. I was in the Bend recently 
and heard reports on your editorship and also 
the details. Have enjoyed the '38 class notes.' 
. . . Don't forget that promise. Scotty. and 
thanks for the plug. . . . This from Paul Schaub 
. . . 'Peter Sexton on honeymoon in Havana. 
Cuba, Waters attended. [The honei*moon, Paul,] 
Jack Gargware, who went to scliool with us in 
the Freshman j-ear, is manager of a dairy store 
in \\'heeHng. Annual N. D. dance here the 2Sth. 
I am working for the Wheeling Machine Products 
Co. , . .' George C. (Senator) Howard, Jr., 
writes on the back of his card, 'How is the old 
newspaperman? I am also in the business. I am 
in the classified department of the "Washington 
Post." Advertising solicitor is what my card 
reads. I cali on most of the banks and large 
real estate offices.* 
"Bill Woemcr says, 'I promise to answer your letter as soon as work decreases, and I'm back again in Los Angeles. At present am in San Francisco. looking forward to a lonely Christ­mas. But will be in LJV. again in January.* . . . John F. (Deacon) Anton covers the Iowa game week-end in this succinct sentence, 'Would have written about Iowa game, but there was nothing to tell but 7-6.* . . . Paul Leahy (527 N. San­dusky street. Tiffin, Ohio), surprises by signing his card, 'The Paul Leahy, Jrs., and Mike.* Since when, Paul, and how about a little more information? One of the two engagement an­nouncements for this issue -was announced on a Christmas card when Robert Cnger) McGralh wrote his engagement to Miss Annabelle Char­ters, of Oak Park, 111-, was announced on Decem­ber 20. More details on this after I get TRger over here for a -week-end. 
"The other engagement concerns my old room­mate, Emory Albert (Bud) Sherwood, whose en­gagement to Miss Catherine Lawler, of Flint, Mich., was announced during the CHiristmas va­cation. 
"No dates have been set for the weddings. 

"To think that the two most ineligible class­mates would go so early I 
"Christmas cards were also received from Bernard Fceney, John J. Kohn, and Robert B. Hcywood, of the '39 class (Heywood's card, ^wtH the verse -written by Heywood, I believe, is about the best of its kind Fve ever seen), Mary and Bob Cahill. and Rev. L. V. BroughaU C.S.C., 
whose Christmas Chronicle (a diary of his activi­ties for tlie day) was the most ingenious of all! 
"The Blue Ribbon -with Palm award for the February issue (along with a catalogue of the University of Notre Dame and three free drinks at the five-year reunion of the *38 class) goes to none other than Johnny Poore. Mr. Poorer 
" 'Here comes my annual letter to the secre­tary and my report on the happenings of those few class members that I've been lucky enough to run into in the last year. I got up to two of the games this year at Notre Dame, and, while I tried to pick the games at which I -would run into the greatest number of fellows, it seems that I picked the wrong games to attend.' 
" 'At the Purdue game I ran into Jack Bond who reports that he and brother Tom are still alive and working. It seems that Jack made just about all the home games at least, because I ran into him again at the Southern Cal game. Johnny Hurst was at the Purdue game. He tells me that he is working for some company that handled all the concessions at the Notre Dame stadium this Fall, and that he was in charge of the work for this company out there. I didn't see him at the Southern Cal game, but guess he was there as the concessions were going strong. Bumped into Bob MuUcn in the Caf at the Purdue game, and he told me that he had just gotten back from Germany where he had been studying for the past year. The war ran him out. [This Bob MuUcn is not to be confused with the Bob Mul­len who went to England recently and is now writing copy for the Sears Roebuck catalogue in Chicago. Secretarj-'s note.] The old guard of Jack Dcanc, Joe Nigro. Johnny O'Connor, Walt MonaccIIi, Bill Mahoney, and Frank Bright, were out in full force at both games, and are still waiting until June to get their sheepskins. Frank Bright, by the way. is running the magazine stand in the caf and getting fatter. Mark Grucncn­fclder is still up there taking architecture.* 
" 'The Southern Cal game produced a few more of the fellows, but not near as many as I ex­pected to see. I spied Jimmy Burgess escorting some lovely miss to the stadium, but didn't get a chance to ask him what he was doing. Had a little chat vnth Johnny Baltes who says that he is working for his Dad in the contracting field. Johnny told me that Buzz Manix h.is a pretty good job with the Government out in Ohio some place. Saw Chuck Macaluso and Babe KcIIcy, of Chicago, keeping warm between halves of the game with coffee and hot dogs. I also ran into Bob Sdiirf, of the '39 class, who is working for the Commonwealth Edison Co., in Chicago.' 
" .'I run into Johnny Jchlc every time I got home. He is still with the Shell Refinery at home and was up to the Northwestern game where he says he ran into Howard Lardic who is working for the Union Carbide Co.. in Niagara Falls.' 
" 'I -was at Dan Cochran's wedding in St. Louis last June and had quite a nice chat with him. He's with Eastern Airlines in New York (Sty, and, from what I've heard from other sources, is doing great with them. Dave Brock­cnbrough -was best man at the wedding. Dave was in our class for about two and a half years and then dropped out of school. He and I and some lovely southern redhead got together after we saw Dan oft on his honeymoon and reminisced over mint juleps in the Chase Hotel bar.* 
" 'Well, that just about takes care of all the news I know. I'm still with the State of Illinois Highway Department, but have had t\vo promo­tions since I last wrote you. Was promoted to a traffic research engineer last May, and in October was'put in charge of all the automatic. traffic recording equipment for the State, with a very substantial boost in salary which didn't make me a bit mad. So in closing I'd like to ask a favor of you if you wouldn't mind. I've been trying for a year to hear what has happened to Tex Le­Blanc and Dick Thocn, but so far I haven't been 
^ able to get any line on them. I've written both of them several times, but haven't heard anythine nbout them. So if you happen to hear anything about them would you mind passing it along?' 
"Thanks, Johnny, that was one peach of a letter. Consratulations on your promotions and raises. 
"As for Tex and Dick, I stiggest you contact Johnny whose address is 220 West Capitol ave­nue. Springfield, 111. 
"This from Johnny Braddock who has put his baseball glove aside long enough to write this ^ dandy letter. 
"' . . . I have gotten a few breaks so far, and hope they continue to come my way. I went from the bank to the Gas Company offices, and then, just a few months ago, I took over all the accounting work of the George J. Borger Real Estate Co., here in Washington, D. C. Good money and all that, but a heck of a lot of work. . , . Well, Hal, a few weeks ago I had a great thrill and one of my fondest ambitions realized 
— I went back to N, D., to see the Southern Cal football game. "What a time, what a crowd, and what a game — the best I've seen since the Ohio 1 State job of '35, remember 1 We drove out and, due to rain on the road, barely made it in time for the pep rally — the best one I can remember. First one I ran into was Chuck Sweeney right up in front with his wife (don't blame him). Had a swell chat, and he says he's now stationed in the Bend with the oil company. Also saw Bill Mc-Vay, completing his law coarse at N. D. Other lawyers I saw were Johnny Wilson and OXon­
•• nor, Ray Bradford, "T-Bone" Mahoney and Jack Dcanc. In the candy store I ran into Aaggie Bossu, who is coaching the freshmen at N. D., Bill McNamara, the old lawyer, and Hugo Win­tcrrowd, who is working in his native Bend. Ran into Pete Shcchan next, down from Cleveland after just losing his job.' 
" 'That night after the game, went down to the Brandywine. There I ran into Frank O'Laughlin, down from Chi: said he is now working for a coal company there. Salesman, I believe. He told me about Jack "California" Crowley hitting the jackpot — triplets! Bill Faymonvillc is finishing in February and has a job with Republic Steel. I saw him down at the Venice in suspenders and t-shirt.' 
" 'Best laugh of all — spent a couple of hours with Vincc DuRgan who kept my friends and myself in stitches the whole time.- He said he's 
*• been doing everything imaginable from Boston to Arizona, and nothing particular in South Bend at the present.' 
" 'Heard from O'Langhlin that Eddie Brennan got a raw deal on that paper in Chi, but has now hooked up with a better job on a* different paper. Luck to Eddie! Also saw Bill Nolan from a dis­tance, but couldn't get a word with him.' 
" 'Funny thing, Hal, I've been writing to Joe Thomburg and Jolinny Baltcs (in Norwalk, Ohio, working for his Dad, a road contractor) for months before the game planning to meet them there, and I never did see them.' 
" *Ed Mann, finishing law at N. D., was an­other old friend I saw. I'm sorry, Hal, I can't remember more of the boys that I saw, and also 
r what these fellows are doing, but I saw so many 
— you know how it is. . . .* 
"Thanks, Johnny, old man. Though I haven't seen you since that ball game in Washington this 
•^ spring, I'm going to arrange a meeting in the near future. Johnny's address, by the way. is 4600 Fifth street, N.W.. Washington, D. C. 
"And in the mail this afternoon from way out 
' in l4js Angeles, Ca!., comes this newsy letter from the one, the only Hob Kirchman, the court jester of the '38 class. 
"Says Hub: 'This isn't going to be a plea for Finnish relief although we are all in desperate need of some type of relief out here, what with the Trojans giving our boys lessons in our own ovm game. This ^vill be a disappointment to the class of '38, but our own Adrian Joe Race is not in a seminary, bat is coaching and playing foot­ball for money, — imagine that. Banny He-Cormick is playing pro ball, as is Sweeney Tuck. Bunny is also studying for his teacher's credits at 
S. C, besides taking treatments (his hair, you know). Kjic Donnell and I are living together and still pursuing an education. He is working for Standard Oil and expects to get hts degree from U.C.L.A. next semester. I am doing grad­uate work at U.C.LA. in Business Administra­tion, and am shuffled along somewhere in F.DJi.'s alphabetical lineup, . . / 
" *If no relief is in sight, you certainly won't have to worry about any of your boys being in 
L.A. about Dec 4 next year, but do your best for us 'cause we would hate to give up this sun­shine. P.S. — Also saw Bill Woemer; he is selling something or other for Seagrams Ctorp.' 
"Hub's address is 351 S. Bfariposa, Hollywood, Calif. Thanks, Hub, for the letter. Ed TJniachc and I had a swell time over the Army game week­end talking about your various exploits. 
"Next to the floor is Eddie Alattingly from up Cumberland (Md.) way. Eddie says that he is still working for his father in the wholesale busi­ness. He is anxious to get in Chem Engineer­ing and wants to know if any of the boys know of anything. He goes on to say that he was talking to one Nordy Rosenbaum last summer and she told him that she had dates with (xcorge Schlaodeckcr and Charlie Slj-nstad. Sol 
"Eddie also reports that Hal Langton left LaSalle Institute at Cumberland where be was coaching and teaching. He finished the football season with two wins and five losses. 
"Now comes the old roommate, Sherwood, who is still in Tarrytown, N. Y., with Chevrolet. He spent the Christmas holidays in Flint. Bud says that he was in New York recentiy to attend an alumni meeting. There were only two '33 boys present: Johnny Sdtmitz and 'Ivan the terrible' Ivanccvic; both are looking for jobs. Bud re* ceivcd a card recently from Bob Hauler who was in our class for t\vo years. Bob is now living in Detroit and his address is 16715 Mans­field. I know Bob would appreciate a note from some of you bums. 
"In today's mail I also received cards from Duck May, Tex Haggar, Bill Woemer, John Schcmmcr, Bill Riley, and Frig Fcmback (who, he says, is In love with a co-ed at Cornell. — *A confirmed woman-hater gone awry.') Tharingcr, by the way. spent a week-end with SIcGrath during the holidays. Hger wants the addresses of the above-mentioned classmates and as these will be forwarded immediately, those boys can expect a letter in green ink on green stationery from McGrath, who is usually green about the gills about three in the morning. And that's not libel. 
"Tommy Hutchinson, the Dexter Fellows of the Indianapolis Public Library, also came through with some mail. Tommy seems to be doing a lot of his publicity work in the radio field; anyway, he has fallen in love with the airways and now he thinks that radio has It all over the press. 
"Recently Tommy had to pinch-hlt on the air­waves when his announcer (an old WSBT man) didn't show up. So far I haven't read anything in the papers about the Federal Communications Commission shutting down the Indianapolis sta­tion, so he must have gotten away with it. 
"Seriously, thoagh, he must be doing fine work as one of his programs is £^ven a 15-minute spot before the Jack Benny program, and recently he got a compliment from the city editor of the In­dianapolis 'Star.' 
"You're welcome, Hutchinson. Now do I get the five-spot you promised me? 
"The denouement of the month, concerns Jade (Jack Pot) Cnnrlcr. Several issqes mgOt I be­lieve it was, to get a rise out of (Jrowley I pounded something like this, 'Word has been re­ceived that Jade (the old rainmaker) Crowley is the father of triplets.' It was pure fiction. Word of his family spread hither and yon (mmor even has it that Zerbst in far ofif dark India rec^ved word of it by the old Notre Dame grapevine). It was one of the main subjects at the Penn bar in New York during the Army week-end. 
"But for three months no word from Crowley other than a pretty Christmas card. Finally, on the gloomy morning of January 2 came this tele­gram, 'Have neither spouse nor progeny appre­ciate confidence in my potential capacities have you same for Baltlmores Wally. Jack Crowley,' 
"The bartender is getting ready to close the place, and his little girl wants to take her type­\vrlter home and put it back under the (Christmas tree so I better start heading toward a close. 
"There isn't much more news other than I re­ceived a note from Don Hicfcey yesterday saying that he hasn't much to report, but would "write In a few days giving available gossip. 
"I would like to hear from Charlie Callahan, Bob Fembadi. Tom Hardart, Tom Gorman, Chris Masterson, Dan Ryan, Jack Simon, John Thos­kosky, and Frank Winnlnger. 
"Thanks for all the fine letters, and the thoughtful Christmas cards. In the same breath I'd like to ask for mail, especially from those birds who haven't been heard from In a long time. 
"To all the classmates who still owe me money 
— a happy and prosperous New Year.. 
"Still later: BUI Conr and Tom Flynn paid me a flying visit. They are both students at George­town Law In Washington; Bill is taking the night course and during the day working in the Finance Division for the N.YJl. Tom's address is 113 First ave.. N.E., and Bill's is, 1016 16th, N.W. 
"They told me that other N. D. boys at George­town are: Duke Nardone. Lee Simpson, Joe Ko­vatch, Emll Peters, and BIB Whelan. 
"Bill also told me that Joe Hennebry, ex. '38, has taken on still another job: he was recently appointed assistant manager of the Chicago Motor Club, Springfield, Illinois, division. 
"From the 'Religious Bulletin' I learn that Joe O'Boyle, of Sayre, Pa., died suddenly. No details were gix'en on the death." 
109 0 Vincent DeConrsey, 2Sl N. 13th St., 
• TJ T Kansas City, Kansas. 
From 'Vincent Dc Conrsey; 
"Whoever said the early bird would get the worm was certainly right — take this column for instance, if It had been early the only thing it would have caught is a nice over-ripe worm. Delaying things had the efl'ect of brining in a few extra letters, which helps very much to fill up the back pages as well as let 'em know what everj'body — well, almost everybody — Is doinff. 
"This months period covered up the glorious season of Christmas — but the old Santa Claus spirit didn't soften appreciably the hearts of the &v-students of '3d, nor did it cure the bad cases of 'Writing cramps most of them apparentiy suffer. Quite a few cards came in, which at least means that the senders are alive. Really we do appre­ciate the remembrances, and will do our best in the near future to answer all the letters. 
"Just to start things off with a familiar little note; why don't Frank Cunningham, Tom Kal­man, Ray Sdiledc, (whose address we would like to know; things come back when addressed to the "Y"). Pan! McArdle, Mark Sntchd], Bin Don­nelly, Herm Rorabcrff, and Ken Higby take a few minutes off in their busy da>'s and drop a couple of lines. And ex-friend 'CB' Nelson, as a per­sonal note, need not worry about seeing his man­uscript in print — our newly-found integrity will safeguard every last word. By the way, the Christmas card of the 'Scrip* demon was about the cleverest thing of its kind we have ever seen; almost made us homesick for the guardians of the hallways in the good old St. Ed's freshman days. 
"Among those present in the Christmas card department: Tex Greene, who came through a few days ago with what we thought was a New dear's card but turned out to be a wedding an­nouncement. Mr. and Mrs. John Francis Greene are now at home at 430 South Ballinger St., Fort "VVorth, Texas. The ceremony took place Christmas E\'e. Seems as though the boys are dropping off pretty fast, or are we imacining things? Rumor has it that Walt Cotton, of all people, has taken unto himself a helpmate and is bieathing what passes for air in Michigan some­where. How about it. "Walt? 
"Also out of Fort Worth came a miniature Sunday 'N. Y. Times,' entitled 'North Pole News.* and bringing season's greetings from Philip Record North. Bob Hoag, from Lawson 'Y' in Chicago, Frank Parks (to whom we extend apolo­gies for not having written and assurances that before he sees this in print he i^ill have the long-promised epistle), John Kohn, Charley Bennett. Ed Fanning, Bemie Fccncy, Tom Hogan, Harry Kaiser, whom Tom Rcardon says is hard at work in Eau Claire's bank, Tom O'Mallcy, Red Neu­mann. Al Nigro, Mark Mitchell, Graham Starr, John Starktc, Mr. imd Mrs. James C. Walsh and Frank Gaglionc all came through with cards. The 'Gag,* by the way, sent his card from South Bend, which in itself calls for some explanation; at last report the terror of the hardwood was going to teach the frosh at Canisius the fine points or dropping an opposing fonvard into the sixth row. 
"A surprise that was indeed welcome, leaving the Christmas card department for the moment, was a telephone call one night from Tom O'Mal­ley, who was passing through Kansas City on his way home to Chicago for the holidays. Tom said he was working for a lumber company in Ptoe­nix, Arizona, but gave no other details. Brother Bud is working in Albuquerque, N. M., for the Southwest Sash and Door Co. January 2 saw Bud waiting at the foot of the altar for a cer­tain young lady also. We were genuinely sorrj­that Tom didn't get to stay longer. Perhaps bet­ter luck and a few beers next time. 
"Fred Sisk, the old rounder himself, came through with a telegram as of 4 A.M. l^ew Year's Eve saying that he would arrive the next day. And sure enough he did. For three hours, l>etween trains, we (Fred, myself, and Mrs. Vin­cent DeCoursey, come spring), imbibed highballs and the lore of the Mchigan law school. Fred eeems to be doing very well for himself there, which is no surprise, but says that he and Bill Carroll are having a great time with certain of the Palestine Indians. He was among those pres­ent at the Northwestern game and reports having seen just about the whole contingent of 'maraud­ers.* Frank Fitch, no relation to the above, is now with Carson, Pirie, Scott, instead of Mont­gomerj- Ward, in Chicago. 

"To get back to the Christmas cards again, Dick and Don 0*Mclia enclosed a very nice letter with theirs. Dick is apparently having just as good a time ase ever and says that law school is coming along fine. He added a request that this column carry his address and a notice that every­body is welcome at any time and please drop in whenever you can, hut for some reason or other we just can't find said address. If Dick will write again we would be glad to oblige. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

"Dick's letter said that he visited Hal Gott­sackcr in Sheboygan, "Wisconsin, and Hal reported the insurance business as 'O.K.' But we wonder what Hal thinks of Senator Wagner's proposal for government insurance? 'Bob Kieman dropped in one night; he is working in Milwaukee: and Lou Ottmer has been up a few times. This fall I managed to get down for the Purdue game, drove to Cleveland with Carl Fricke for the Navy game. We stayed there ^vith Harry Fox ('38) and he showed us a perfect time. Then yours truly got do\vn to N.D. for the Northwestern game and saw a lot of the boys. It seemed like last year — only we could go into the Lido, Oliver Bar, etc' 
"Bob Heywood's poem, on his card, was really very good — after the first shock had passed away. We wonder how Bob is coming along; on last reports, from John Kohn way last September, he was possibly going to school in the second semester. If Bob has the time we wish he'd write. 
"The name of Carl Fricke above reminds me that Jim Aylward ('40), home for the holidays, passed along quite a few tales that are the rage of the campus this year and bid fair to make Carl a part of the Notre Dame legend. How Carl, for instance, spent weeks trying to get hold of Chamberlain's umbrella, refusing to leave Eng­land even though ordered out until he had ac­complished that feat; how in order to remain under cover he took a job as swimming teacher on an English beach; and finally had to be ar­rested and put aboard an American-bound ship. To allay any suspicions that this might not be true, Carl just has to write and explain his actions. 
"At the Kansiis City Club Christmas dance, a whopping good party if ever there was one, we saw Dave Crooks, employed by a big transport and warehouse firm of the same name in Kan­sas CSty, Frank Toj-nc, Tom Rcardon, and exactly 96 others. Tom Yarr, one-time All-American (c c 1930) drew numbers from a waste paper basket until he finally emerged with one that said someone that no one present had ever heard of had won the autographed football. Tom is working in Kansas City these days for a finance company and looking prosperous and not too well-fed. The 'Kansas City Star' carried quite a piece about him during the football season. 
"If it would not be out of place in this editorial we would like to say a few words about our­self. We're still at the same address and same place of business. H. O. Feet and Co., in ICan­sas Git>', Ihlo., and doing fairly well there, what with a raise after four months and all. Around about June of this year we will splice the knot that binds with one Helen Clune, whom some of the boys might remember from her visits to the campus. Thought some of 'em might be in­terested. 
"My brother Bill says that he sees Hugh Gar­vcy and Pat Gorman every once in a while on the campus and says that they are doing as well as could be expected, which, after all, is some­thing. Pat, however, on quite exclusive 'Gorman or McVay, Suites 235-239 Walsh Hall. Would-Be-Attorneys at Law' stationery, wrote to deny any­thing but the kindest of feelings toward the world in general. He said that he made the Pennsylvania after the Army game and watched Luke Lacroix keep his reputation by leading Artie Shaw^'s band (which might have something to do with that worthy's disappearance) and then the Roosevelt, where Joe Hart (*40) was showing the Lombardo brothers how to do the same thing. 
"We wish that Pat or someone would keep us posted on how Joe Dunn comes out. It certainly was too bad about his trouble, but we hope and feel that everything will be all right. 
"Among other things Pat said that Bengaleer  
Sammy Dolce *. . . played quarterback for the  
seniors in the interclass 150-pound football cham­ 
pionships. Sam tried hard, but the juniors won  
2-0 in the second game after the first wound  
up in a 0-0 tie.' Just as a word to Pat, and any­ "  
one else who might be interested, Tom and Dot­ 
tie Rcardon can be reached at the Robert Brown­ 
ing Apartments, Brush Creek Blvd. and Roanoke  
Road. Kansas City. Mo. 
"Johnny Cclla sent a very pleasant letter this  
way in December. He is working for the Roma  
Wine Co. in Fresno, California — lives at 3514  
Huntington Blvd. there. After graduation he w-ent  
to the New York offices of the company and  
worked at advertising and did field work with the  
salesmen. Then Chicago w*here '. . . met up  
with Paul Kellc3% now taking courses with an  
insurance firm. Also met Tom Shrincr, who  
wasn't doing anything at the time. I went back  
to Ohio for a week and met Scott Sheedy, who  
had a job lined up with a steel company in Pitts­ 
burgh. After getting to California late in Sep­ 
tember, did a month's work at the winery and  
now I'm purchasing agent and adx'ertising mana­ 
ger — which keeps me pretty busy.'  
"For those who were wondering about Greg  
Gushing. Johnny said: 'Greg and his wife are  
living in Oakland, California. Greg has a job  
with the Pacific Dredging Co. (I think that's the  
name) He*s an engineer and doing fine, as engi­ 
neer and as husband.'  
"Ihis month's genuine molybdenum pen point  
goes to John Dunphy who finally cracked the  
pre-meds' unbeatable 'no--4vrite rule' along about  
mid-December. From Nu Sigma Nu, 3904 Spruce  
St.. Philadelphia, John writes of the boys who  
carve the cadavers. John, by the way, is one  
of the IT. of Penn's brighter medical lights.  
'Harrj- Reinhardt is at Jefferson Med in this cit>-.  
Bill Callahan is at Washington U. in St. Louis,  
Tom Malloy is at St. Louis U., Stan Weigcl is at  
Yale. Dick McKay at Northwestern, Buddy Bas­ 
tian was heading for Georgetown as was Ray  
Tillc. Jim Johnson and Fete Martin are at Mich­ 
igan, Walt Drurj' and my old roommate. Neil  
McGarvey, are at Western Reserve. Tom Cronin  
is at Pitt Law. and Bob Campbell is dissecting  
remains at the same place.*  
"The benefits of procrastination having been  
explained in the first of this so-called column, it  
remains that proof of the argument be presented.  
Well, for instance, Julie Tonsmcirc's fine letter  
would have been among the things just too late  
for inclusion. Listen to how beautifully Julie  
explains things in this first paragraph and then  
let this advice be heeded.  
•* 'The lull after Christmas and New Year holi­ 
days leaves most of us with a little free time  
and perhaps a little information about a few of  
the '39 boys. If all the guys would make a reso­ 
lution to write you just once a year. • your task  
of reporting the "low-down" on the class would  
be relatively simple.'  
" 'Dave Meskill, my ex-roomie, has found three  
different occasions for coming down this way.  
The first time was to see the Fair, the second  
for the Army game, and the third just to try out  
Brookl>-n potatoes. He brought his very dear  
friend. Miss Adelaide Hogan. (most of the Sorin  
sub boys met her at the time of the Senior Ball  
last spring) to see the Army game. On the other  
two visits he had to be content with continuous  
raving about the same fine young lady. He did  
admit that he did a swell job with G. E. in  ^  
Bridgeport, and that he might be the big boss  
in another few years. Meskill, Jim Raaf. George  
Mulligan and I had a real session over the bridge  
table and a few bottle of beer at Mulligan's  
house. George is getting along very well with  
the Columbia Pictures, and there are rumors  
that he might get a screen test before long. Raaf  
is helping Grace Steamship Co. ^vith their ac­ 

, 

counting; problems. Jim went out to the Southern Cal game and said he saw Louie Bcmish out there from Rochester. A nice "red head" draws Bcmish west and the famous "Helen" still rates with Jim. Louie is evidently doing O.K. with Eastman Kod.ik. but his letter writing hasn't been so good lately.' 
" 'John Hartsock reports that he's with the Traveler's Insurance Co., and likes it a lot. Joe Rizzi says that he's been traveling quite a bit for Rankin & Co., but that he finds their account­ing problems very interesting. Jerry Green is learning a lot of law at Catholic U., and reports that he's found a real "heart-throb" in 'Wash­ington.' 
" 'Jack Cole now understands why we found it hard to study when we were seniors. Jack re­ceived his first pink slip this fall. Evidently he and his roomie. Bill Faymonvillc, have been en­joying their senior "privileges." Bill is slated to go with Republic Steel when he finishes in Jan­uary.' 
" 'Ade Martin, our off-campus roomie, has stopped trying to convert me since I told him I'm a Catholic Steve Sabo, another of our off-campus roomies, reports that St. Matt's C.Y.O. meetings in South Bend have been discontinued now that last year's Sorin sub bunch aren't around.* 
" 'I ran into Benny Binkowski right before Christmas. He was worldng in a Sears-Roebuck store in Brooklyn. Dan Kelly has just started working for the Manhattan Trust Co., and Andy Wilson had just been laid off by the New York "World-Telegram" about a month ago.' 
" *A1 Schmitz is doing a swell job with the Equitable Life Insurance Co. in Nashville. He has been doing more studying than working, I be­lieve. He was able to get home (St. Joseph, Mo.) for Christmas.' 
" 'A lone nnd lengthy epistle from Frank Fran­sioli gives a little dope on some of the mechanical engineers. Fransioli, himself, is doing power plant work at the Gary steel mills. Evidently he's been given quite a bit of responsibility. Dick Bohn, who is also with the same mills, is getting mar­ried the 27th of January. Fransioli, Jack Duffy, Louis Dcmer, Clark Keen, Charles Hayes and Louie Bemish had a reunion of the mechanical engineers in some beer parlor after the Southern Methodist game. Hayes is with Caterpillar Tractor. Dcmer is taking his Master's under Doc Mahin, and Keen is finishing up in January. Fransioli saw Bob Gallagher at the Iowa game but failed to say what Bob is doing now.' 
" 'I fear that I'm all talked out.' "Talked out or not, Julie certainly did a fine job. Would that someone would do just as good ne:ct month, the month after and after that, and so on. "In behalf of the class, the last to graduate under his presidency, we would like to take this chance to express our pleasure at the elevation of Father O'Hara to the episcopacy. In all sincer­ity I know of no one who did not deeply admire the intelligence and the ability he demonstrated in the years he was president of Notre Dame. May he have successful and pleasant years in his new office." 
Arnold Maes has a job with New Departure (division of General Meters) in Chicago as the result of the combined efforts of the Placement Bureau at Notre Dame and Ed O'Toolc's place­ment committee in Chicago. 
Through another Placement Bureau contact, Louis Somers, Bloomginton, III., was about to take on an attractive job with the Michigan Mutual Liability Co., as this issue went to press. His locale was to be either Indianapolis or South Bend. 
More placement notes: Victor Belltno, chemist in the Newark, N. J., plant of the Rcilly Tar and Chemical Corp. and working evenings on his 
M.S.
 at Brooklyn Polytech. Julie Tonsmeire now with the Eberhard Faber Pencil Co., Brooklyn, 

N.
 Y. Karl Langlois, with the Kimberly-Clark Corporation, Appleton, Wis. 


Ralph Wachter, graduate assistant at Catholic University, Washington, D. C, Jack Ryan with the Hudson Bay Mining Co., Flin Flon, Mani­toba, Canada. Bob Tuson with the National Oil Products Co., Harrison, N. J. T. Joseph Stulb with the Clearwater Manufacturing Co., Clear­water, So. Car. 
New addresses: Kenneth E. Higby, 849 North Michigan Ave., Chicago. Thomas C Bamett, Cia Bananera, San Jose, Costa Rica, C. A. 
PITTSBURGH PLACEMENT 
(Continued from Page 117) 

can be enclosed with a covering letter requesting an interview, or they can be laid dovm. on the desk of a prospective employer when the applicant goes in for an interview. In the latter case the ap­plicant is appealing to t\vo senses, the eye and the ear. And, as you know, the most effective salesmanship is usual­ly that which appeals to the most senses. Further, something original like that helps single a man out of the mob. 
"We do not—at least yet—have any formal committee. However, we all have an idea of the contacts and potentiali­ties of fellow alumni. In cases where some other N.D. men may be able to help, I send the applicant there after fixing up an appointment. 
"Now about the figures. We have had eight applicants to date. Several of these were so recent that we have not been able to get down to cases yet. As regards the others: We lined one up on a temporary job. He has since obtained a regular position through his own re­sources. We put another chap in touch with a good prospect. If he didn't con­nect I would conclude that the fault was partially his own. We introduced an­other chap in a promising place. He received encouragement and other in­terviews were to follow. I have heard nothing further. (That's the way of it, you know; if they make out, you never hear from them again.) The last case is a tough one that almost gets beyond my sphere. I did put him in touch with a good agency which caters to profes­sional people. There are several possi­ble leads for him but they must be ap­proached slowly. That covers the situa­tion since September when this work was started. We helped place several 
N.D. men prior to that time. 
"Since you are designated to coordi­nate this work I would like to make a suggestion for your consideration: 
"More professional activity should be fostered among N.D. graduates. You 
N.D. attorneys have made a step in that direction. This should be stimulated and expanded to cover N.D. business executives, journalists, physicians, sci­entists, engineers, etc. The benefits would be manifold in finding positions, in enhancing the prestige of the TJniver­sity and in helping each other in this work-a-day world." 
ASSOCIATION FINANCES 
- (Continued from Page 119) 

tact with your University, your Associ­
ation. 
Coincident with this article, the -Alumni Office is sending out a final notice for your contributions for the fiscal year, 1939-40. You know the situation. We fully realize that some of our members are unable to pay any­thing at this time. (For example, many of the younger men are continuing graduate work. But take a look at the percentage of contributors from 1939 and 1938, in spite of this.) Yet a min­imum of only $1 is all we ask of you to put you in good standing and en­courage our program. If you are for­tunate enough that you can send more, I am sure that a little reflection, and an analysis of the .Association program, will convince you of the merit of the gift. 
'We also ask that you speed up our realization of financial independence by not only paying your own way, but ask­ing your fellow alumni to do likewise. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI 
(Continued from Page IIS) 

work for the law firm which had been founded by his father. From 1906 imtil 1910 he served as deputy prosecuting attorney for the 29th Judicial Circuit, and from 1910 until 1914 he was prose­cuting attorney for the same Circuit. He returned to the practice of law until 
1932, when he was elected a judge of the Supreme Court of Indiana for the six-year term beginning in January, 1933. He was re-elected in 1938. 
Judge Fansler was bom in Logans­port on July 4, 1883 and was married to Kate Hall, of Peru, Indiana, in 1909. Modestly, he refuses to "tell all" about his full and interesting life. 
"There is nothing spectacular about a career in the practice of law and on the bench," he claims. "It is much like a football player's career in the line. It is full of action and interest My principal interest is the law, and I am quite sure it will continue to be." 
Judge Fansler is a member of the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis and an active participant in the club's af­fairs whenever the heavy burden of his duties permits. 

The University of No+re Dame du Lac 
Notre Dame, Indiana, U. S. A. Colleges and Departments 
COLLEGE OF A RTS AND  LETTERS  
DepartmentDepartmentDepartmentDepartmentDepartmentDepartmentDepartment  of Religion of Philosophy of English of Classics of Modern Language of History of Economics Department of J  DepartmentDepartmentDepartmentDepartmentDepartmentDepartmentDepartmentournalism  of of of of of of of  Politics Sociology Education Physical Education Art Music Speech  
COLLEGE OF  S CIENCE  
DepartmentDepartmentDepartment  of of of  Biology Chemistry Physics  DepartmentDepartment  of of  Astronomy Mathematics  

(Special programs for pre-medical and for pre-dental students) 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
Department of Civil Engineering Department of Mining Engineering Department of Mechanical Engineering Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Electrical Engineering Department of Metallurgy Department of Architecture Department of Aeronautical Engineering 
Department of Engineering Drarving 
COLLEGE OF LAW 
COLLEGE OF COMMERCE 

Department of Finance and Accounts 
Department of Marketing and Business Administration 
Department of Foreign Commerce 
GRADUATE SCHOOL 

Philosophy History Politics Education Chemistry Mathematics 
English Economics Sociology Biology Physics Metallurgy 
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS Notre Dame NOTE TO ALUMNI 
GROUP I—Nine Kequircd (Ten in Sci. and Eng. Col.) Enslish (all CoUoKea)-. 3 units 
Please urge early registration, preferably 
History (all CotlcBes)-1 unit first semester of the senior high school year .\lEebm (all ColIcEOs) „ , 1 unit Geometry (all CoUefres) , 1 unit 
or earlier, for relatives or friends. Three Science .
 (Enff. and Sci.-Physics required).. 1 unit advantages accrue: Language (all 03lleges)_ 2 unit3 Science and EnBineerinjc require ^^ unit each of Int. or 
Adv. Algebra, and Solid Geometr>-. 
1. The applicant is sure of coming within the quota of the College of the University GROUP 11 
English, 4th year _ „ 1 unit 
he chooses, if accepted. Latin . 2 to 4 units Greek , 2 or 3 units 
2. The applicant is sure of securing a French . 2 to 4 units 
German , 2 to 4 units 
room oit the campus, if accepted. Spanish -.^_— , 2 to 4 units History _„ units 
3. The applicant learns upon application .\lKebr,a (Int. or Adv.).. unit Solid Geometry unit 
of any deficiencies in entrance requirements, 
Trigonometry unit before completing high school. Phj-siographj' „.. unit 
PhysioIog>* -unit Astronomy unit 
Action on the above suggestions will pre­Botany unit Zoology „__....„. .... unit 
vent many of the disappointments to alumni 
Chemistry -. ™__ unit and friends which occurred this year in con­Physics unit 
junction with a capacity enrollment well 
GROUP III -(Not more than Three counted) ahead of the opening of school. Eloctives--Any subjects which High School accredits. 
MINIMUM TOTAL REQUIRED­






