The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
(9 123rd Academic Year 
C« 


NOTTiE DAME 
ALUMNUS 
C* 
The 1964-65 academic year opened in mid-September with the traditional orienta­tion week for the largest freshman class ever and the semester was half over before any­one could draw a breath. 
From the beginning the semester has been characterized by an excitement and ferment that has included: a reW^'al of century-old town-gown conflict, featuring a crackdown on student hitchhiking by South Bend police: a new academic honor code, developed and controlled by the student body, plus stream­lined programs and curricula; heavy student participation in such e-xtracurriculars as the national political campaigns and student trips, including a record-breaking airlift to Denver: and, of course, a renaissance in football. 
Student morale and spirit have been at a high pitch but have resulted in nothing like the riotous excesses of previous years. It is as if the student body generated the cool confidence so apparent in the depth-shy 1964 football Irish, proud of their team, their coaches, their president, but not surprised, since they expected no less than—• 

EXCELLENCE ON A NUMBER OF FRONTS 
Athletics: A Fit for Cinderella 
Squeaking past an inspired Pittsburgh team 17-15 to hold on to the "number one" posi­tion in national rankings, the "Cinderella" football Irish proved on Nov. 7 that they had indeed found a slipper that Ht. 
Tr>*ing for tlie first victor)' in ten years over Michigan State as this newsletter goes 
i.o press, the resurgent Irish (largely retreads from the disastrous 1963 season) had already t-ngineered a stunning comeback and assured IJie first winning season in six years with a

0
'40-0 shellacking of Navy on Oct. 31. follow­ing victories over Wisconsin 31-7. Purdue 34-15, Air Force 34-7. UCL.-\ 24-0 and Stanford 28-6. 
Tlie six-game statistics on tlie back page lell why Notre Dame has achieved instant supremacy. In six starts the Irish of Coach .Am Parscghian had outrushed their oppo­nents nearly ten yards to one and had inter­cepted 15 passes, while Coach John Ray's defensive line had held the enemy to less than a yard per carry and about 30 per game. 

No matter how the season ends. Coach parscghian and the '64 Irish have earned C« ic cheers of the alumni. Whatever the final 
verdict, "they're number one." 
COACH PARSECHIA.N 


Vke ^siAeiBit&ft\igtoitwalStsitf sfAmtmsi 
presidential A4cdnl of pi'ccrfoui 
"Iheodorc M.Hcsburah 
'EtViCtifar athi fiufttanif^anan, ht nas otsptrtH a iiemrattmt iit stitcfents 
nnnaivan i^ms tvisetam in the struaa(e -fur the naftts or man. 



tyaie—­

The President: Activity Amid Accolades 
The Medal of Freedom citation from President Johnson, shown above, is one of many mementos of an autumn semester that has been as exhausting and rewarding for Father Hes-burgh as the academic and athletic effort on the campus for the student body. 
Leaving the campus in late .August, Father began a three-month whirl at the Conference on Peaceful Uses of .Atomic Energy at Geneva, Switzerland, and proceeded directly to Sep­tember's annual congress of the International .Atomic Energy .Agency at Vienna. .Austria. This was interrupted by a flight to Washington to receive the Medal of Freedom as the only priest or college president among the distinguished artists, scholars, scientists and humanita­rians honored with the nation's highest civilian award. 
The end of September saw him in Paris for a meeting of the International Federation of Catholic Colleges and Universities, of which he is president, and in Rome to report to the Holy Father as Vatican delegate to the Geneva and Vienna meetings — there to learn he had been appointed to head a Vatican study on the establishment of a papal center for interfaith studies in the Holy Land. 
Back in October, Father Hesburgh managed to confer with most of Notre Dame's lay advisory groups, including the .Alumni Board, between his duties with federal agencies and private educational foundations. On Nov. 11 he addressed the .American .Academy of Arts and Sciences in Boston on "The Moral Dimensions of the Civil Rights Movement. .And on Dec. 10 he will be in Chicago to address the Council of Graduate Schools in the United States. 
Summer Session Commencement '64: Exercises Under August Sun Gave Alumni '2-, 3-Degree Burns' 
cation; Robert John Konopa B.A '63, Man 
istee; Mich., English: Daniel Loeb Lyon 
B.A '61, Brooklyn, N.Y., socioIog>-; Matthev John Miholick BSPE '41, SouthBend, edu cation; Ralph T. Pastore B.A '63, Ballstoi Spa, N.Y., histor)-; Rev. -Arthur Reyburi Perrv- BA '52, Davenport, Iowa, education James Michael Rhodes -AB '62, Bloomfield Ind., government and international studies Philip F. Riley B.A '63, South Bend, history and Bro. Carl Joseph Shonk CSC, AB '57 Lancaster, Ohio, English. 
Masters of .Arts in Teaching included: James C. Bachmann B-A '63, Chicago Michael Richard Burke BA '63, Skokie, 111. Frank -Andrew DeSantis B.A '63, .Amjierst O.: Eugene Stuart Hilbert B.A '63, Logans port, Ind.: and Francis David Van Treesi 
B.A '63, Peru, Ind. 
Masters of Music Education includedj Terald Wayne Howard BME '60, SoutJ Bend: and Thomas Mattislau Plonski BME '58, South Bend. 
Masters of Business .Administration in­cluded Rev. Michael Joseph Heppen CSC, 
B.A '59, Notre Dame. Masters of Science included Bro. .Adrian Cygnar CSC, BS '44, biology. .And Masters of Science in Civil Engineering included: Edward Francis Bradley BSCE '61, South Bend: and John Francis Yost BSCE '61, Springfield, 111. 

JOHN HAMMES MOWBRAY WINS NATIONAL AWARD 
The winning ways re­gained on the Notre Dame campus seem to reflect a similar trend in the University fam­ily, extending even to the second and third generations. .A case in point is the winning of the national essay con­test of the Children of ' the -American Revolution by a young with a rather e-xtensive Notre Dame-St. Marj-'s heritage. 
He is John Hammes Mowbray, eldest son of District Judge and Mrs. John Mowbray, 
LL.B. '49, grandson of Romy Hamnics, 
LL.D. Notre Dame '55. and Dorothy Hammes, LL.D. S t Mary's '63. 
John, 13, is a member of the John -Ashley Society of the Children of the -American Revolution and an eighth grade student at St. -Ann's school in Las Vegas, Nevada. He won first place in the nation for his essays "The Importance of a Good Education tV the Youth of Today," in the annual awards contest sponsored by the national organiza­tion of the C.AR. John's chapter also won first place for the best newsletter published through the past year. 
The announcement and presentation of the awards were made at the concluding banquet of the National Children of the -American Revolution Convention held earlier this year at the Sheraton Park Hotel in Washington. D.C. John's prize \vas accepted for him by a member of the Ne\-ada delegation. 
Approximately 30 Xotre Dame grads compounded their alumni membership by obtaining advanced degrees as well as sun­burns from Alma Mater at open-air com­mencement exercises for the 1964 Summer Session, held August 1 at the Grotto. 
Six new Doctors of Philosophy included: Michael Joseph Brienza BS 'GQ, Mount Ver­non, N.Y., in physics; Gerald C. Martin Jr. MS '62, Paw Paw, Mich., chemistr\-; John Francis McCue MS '62, Portsmouth, N.H., biology: J. Douglas Mitchell BSChE '58, 
America 
and 
Suwpez 

A Tfieo/og/cal hxcouniex 
Des Moines, Iowa, chemistr>'; Sr. Mar>­Michael Spangler OP, M.-\ '57, Columbus, O., education; and Sr. Catherine Marj-Wodetzki CSC! MS '62, Notre Dame, chem­istrj*. 
Masters of -Arts included: George Thomas Bull B.A '60, South Bend, education: Peter Paul Cerrow B.\ '63, Bayside, N.Y., eco­nomics: John Jones Droege BS '56, South Bend, art; Edward F. Hackett Jr. BA '63, BIoomReld, N.J., histor)-; Rev. Jerome Ed­ward Knoll CSC, B.-\ '56, .\'otre Dame, cdu-
The Seminar in Contemporary European Theolog>% June 21-JuIy II, 1964, had two Holy Cross priests participating: Father Robert Pelton, C.S.C. formerly of Notre Dame and now the director of St. George's College in Santiago. Chile, and Father Robert Nogosek, C.S.C. the director of the CoUegio di Santa Crore in Rome, Italy. 

Twenty-four .American theologians, pro­fessors, ministers, priests and laymen — met with European theologians to discuss the nature of tlie Church and its function in the world today. These .Americans came from all parts of the United States: the -Atlantic and Pacific coasts. New England, the South and the Middle West. They included mem­bers of eight religious bodies: the Roman Catholic Church, the Disciples of Christ, the Baptists, the Methodists, the Lutherans, the Presbyterians, the Episcopalians, and the Quakers. .Among the Roman Catholics, four religious orders, as well as diocesan clerg;­were represented. Many of the group arc teachers in colleges and universities; several are chaplains to students; two are writers. 
Their three-week course of study was or­ganized by the Institute of European Studies, which has its principal offices in Vienna and Chicago, in conjunction with the .American University in Washington, D.C. Its purpose was to enable .Americans who are trained in theology and who arc deeply interested in the ecumenical movement to meet with European theologians for a serious examina­tion of what the church is, as it is under­stood by both Protestants and Roman Cath­olics in Europe. The group met with theo­logians in O.vford, Paris, and Tubingen, and concluded its study in Basel. 
European theologians demonstrated their interest in this project by giving most gen­erously of their time in preparing special lectures, by travelling considerable distances to meet with the seminar, and by welcoming lively argument both during the formal dis­cussion periods and informally. Members of the seminar spoke with special gratitude of Herr Professor Hermann Diem, Rector of the University of Tubingen, who not only invited them to be his guests at luncheon following his lecture on "Das .Ann der Kirche," but also joined them at Traifelberg on another day to participate further in their exchange of ideas. 
The relation of the group to European religious life was not confined to sharing in the intellectual life of scholarly research and reasoning. By praying as well as studying together, its members entered more fully into an appreciation of varying forms of worship, and discovered an increasing sensi­tivity to the one Spirit in whose life all Christians have their lives. 

The widely ecumenical character of the dialogue was as much a product of the lec­turers as of the seminar members themselves. -Among the Roman Catholics who addressed the seminar were Jean Danielou, Yves Con-gar, Hans Kung, Bemhard Leeming, Pierre -Andre Liege, Kristen Schillebceckx, and Karl Rahner. Protestant viewpoints were pre­sented by Gunther Bomkamm, Henrj- Chad­wick, Hermann Diem, Joachim Jeremias, Ernst Kasemann, Hebert Roux, Thomas 
F. Torrance, and others. Through these lec­tures, some thirty in all, the polarities of thought within Protestantism, within Roman Catholicism, and between these two great traditions, were clarified, and the tensions between biblical and dogmatic theology were freshly understood. 
-A particularly notable feature of the semi­
nar was the atmosphere of freedom in which 

all conversation and argument has taken 
place. The speculative genius of European 
theology and the more practical and social 
orientation of -American theology met with­
out constraint or apolog>*. Such unofficial en­
counters do not produce conclusions. They 

disseminate a new quality of thought and 
imagination, and a greatly enhanced com­
prehension of the possibilities which are , open to Christians and churches today. 
Christmas Cards 
(Benefit of Foreign Missions) 
BEAUTIFUL RELIGIOUS ASSORTMENT Offering $1.00 per box 
BROTHERS OF HOLY CROSS Dujorie Foreign Mission Society Dujarie Hall. Notre Dome, Ind. 
Fr. Bachofer Fr. Clancy 

UN/VERSAL ND 
COMMUN/ON 
SUNDAY DEC. 6 
Universal Notre Danic Communion Sun-

Alay, the annual tribute by -N'otre Da>ne men to Our Lady in her identity as P.n­troness of the United States, falls this year on December 6, "the Sunday nearest tlie Feast of the Immaculate Conception." 
The obser\-ance, begun in 1938 by the Notre Dame Club of New York, has be­come a focal event for stressing the ties between religion and citizenship. The ob­vious need for this program grows, as legal wedges continue to be driven between God and education, and God and government. 
^ This year, 1964, the .Alumni .Association 
^proposes a ver)- fundamental observance of this event — the simple reception of Holy Comnumion by all Notre Dame men and their families, in memorj- of the late John Cardinal O'Hara, C.S.C. 
No Notre Dame man contributed more to the encouragement of Holy Communion than Father O'Hara in the years he guided religious life at Notre Dame. It was not by accident or whim that our campus br­came known as the Ci:y of the Blessed Sacrament. It was his belief and h's teach­
in g that a good man would be a good citizen. 
In addition to conmiemorating the Car­dinal, the general intention of asking Our Lady to preser\'e the religious roots of our nation, and to strengthen resistance to spir­itual erosion, may well be added. 
Clubs arc urged to organize the tradi­tional obser\'ances, to set an example for all Catholics in this vital activity. But the 1964 theme also permits every Catholic alumntis. no matter how remote he mav b:?. to ioin in this great appeal to Our Lady, and tribute to one of her greatest .scms. 
REQUIESCANT IN PACE 

Called lo iheir eternal reward over the late summer were four Holy Cross priests who in years past were closely associated with Notre Dame. 
Father Cletus Bachofer, C.S.C., '38, pro-
Fr. Mulcaire Fr. Richards 

fessor nf biology and former head of the department, died ver>- unexpectedly on .August 30. .After sununer school he had gone to the Notre Dame summer house at Land o' Lakes, Wisconsin. There he con­tracted pneumonia, was taken to the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, in serious condition. He responded to treatment, how­ever, and was considered to be well on the way to recover)- when he died suddenly. Father Bachofer, a nationally acknowledged expert on radiation biology, was 51 years of age. 
Father Raymond Clancy, C.S.C, '29, had taught history. He was the first rector of St. Edward's Hall when it became a resi­dence hall in the fall of 1929, and he was the first rector of .-Mumni in the fall of 1931. His death on .August 19 came after a lingering illness. Father Clancy received his master's degree from the University and taught for many years at the University of Portland before his retirement to Holy Cross House on the campus because of illness in 1961. He was 70 years old at the time of his death. 
Father Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C, '17, who died of a heart attack on September 10, had been vice-president of Notre Dame from 1928 until 1933, in the depression years when the Stadium, the Law Building, the Engineering Building, the Business .Ad­ministration Building, .Alumni and Dillon Halls were built. .At the time of his death he was 69 years old. Father Mulcaire taught economics at Notre Dame and Portland, where he was also vice-president. One of four brothers and three of four sisters arc in the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Father Thomas Richards, C.S.C, '22, died July 24 while undergoing surgery in St. Mar>- Hospital, Rochester, Minnesota. Most of his priestly life was spent in the Holy Cross Mission Band, in which he ser\-cd as superior for six years, from 1946 to 1952. Father Richards was also pastor of churches near the campus and in Te.\as. In recent years he \vas superior of the Infirmary and chaplain of St. Joseph's No­vitiate, Rolling Prairie, Indiana. He was 63 years of age when he died. 
TEUPHONE COiNMITTEES TO BE NAMED FOR CHAUENGE II 
Nottc Dame is countii^ on alumni loyalty and your tradition of giving to bring Challenge II to a successful con­clusion. The results thus far have been most encouraging and gratifying, but the University needs YOUR pledge over the next three years. 
Volunteer telephone committees are being organized to check on the renewal of alumni pledges. These fellow alumni are busy men and would prefer not having to remind you. So if you have merely neglected to make your pledge, you could take those telephone volun­teers "off the hook" by notifying the Notre Dame Foundation now of your intent over the next three years. 
PORTFOLIO ON PHILANTHROPY 
A Guide to planned philanthropy 
— modest or considerable — to serve you, your family, and one of America's great educational institutions. 
Write to: 
Asst. Dir. Deferied Giving UNO FaundaKon 

NOTRE DAME SIX-GAME FOOTBALL STATISTICS 
XD TEAM STATISTICS OPP. P.-VSS RECEIVI.VG PUNTING 191 POINTS SCORED 35 YDS. AVC. .\o. 
PLAYER YDS. .\VG. 
Snow, Jack .... 579 36.2 71 by Rushing 30 Eddy, Nick 10 191 I9.I I 
135 FIRST DOWNS 77 Snow. Jack 41 741 18.1 16 
McGinn. Dan 40 40.0 54 by Passing 42 Sheridan, Phil 8 157 19.6 
PUNT RETURNS 10 bv Penalties 5 Wolski, Bill 6 99 16.5 

PI..\YER SO. YtlS. AVa. 
1177 YARDS RUSHING 183 Farrell, Joe 4 49 12.3 
Rassas, Nick II 125 11.4 
291 TIMES CARRIED 195 Kantor, Joe 1 33 33.0 
Conwav. Dennv 7 72 10.3 
4.04 Yards-per-tn- 0.94 Conway, Denn/ I 15 15.0 1295 Y.ARDS P.-\SSiNG 867 Merkle. Bob 3 6 2.0 DEFENSIVE STATISTICS 143 Passes .Attempted 152 Rassas, Nick 2 4 2.0 TACKLES: Jim Carroll 91: Ken M:iglicic^ 
76 Passes Completed 71 53: Tom Kostelnik 46: Jim Lynch 41: Tom .531 .... Completion Percentage 467 Regner 40; Don Gmittcr 37: Tom Longo 
RUSHI.VG 

15 Passes Intercepted by 9 34: Tony Carey 26: Alan Page. Nick Ras­Wolski, Bill 94 468 5.0 
l't..\YER TC YDS. AVC. 
187 Yards Int. Returned 99 sas 23: Kevin Hardy 16: Mike Wadsworth Eddy. Nick 47 228 
2472 TOT.AL OFFENSE 1050 4.9 10: .Alan Loboy 8: Pete .Andreotii 6: Paul 17 PUNTS 37 Costa. John Horney. Ken Ivan, Dick Sau-
Farrell. Joe 51 185 3.6 
619 Total Yards I5I3 3.7 gel 4: Harr>' Long 3: George Goeddeke. 
Kantor, Joe 29 107 
36.4 .-Average 40.9 3.8 Bob Meeker 2: X'ince Mattera, Norm Nicola, 
.-\ndrcotti. Pete 24 92 
197 .... Yards Punts Returned .... 56 5.0 Phil Sheridan. Jim Snowden, Bill Zlocli I. 
Conway, Denny 14 70 
11 FUMBLES 12 OPPOXEXTS" FU.MBLES RECOVERED: .Alan 
Rassas, Nick 3 37 12.3 
5 Ball Li>5t 9 2.0 Page. Tom Regner 2: Paul Costa, Don 
Merkle, Bob 4 8 
Gniitter. Tom Longo, Ken Maglicic, Phit*ft 
1.0 SCORI.VG 9 Sheridan I. 
ZIoch, Bill 1 1 
Huarte, Jolin .. 20 PLAYER TD TG P.\T TP BLOCKED KICK: Kevin Hardv 1. 
Bonvechio. .Alex —8 
Wolski, Bill 8 0 0 48 Carev, Tonv —9 
PASSES INTERCEPTED Eddy, Nick 3 0 0 18 Vt)s. Til Snow, Jack 7 0 0 42 
KICKOFF RETUR.VS Carey, 'Tonv 93 (I Ivan, Ken 0 3 9 IB Farrell, Joe 2 0 0 12 vns. 
P1-\YKR AVG. Lon.go, *Tom 27 I) Huartc, John 2 0 0 12 Eddy, -Nick 96 24.0 Maglicic. Ken 25 0 .Andreotti, Pete 1 0 0 6 Rassas. Nick ... 54 27.0 Rassas. Nick 23 0 
24.5 II 
Conway, Denny 1 0 0 6 Wolski, Bill 49 Kostelnik, 'Tom II Kantor. Joe 1 0 0 6 .Andreotii, Pete 12 12.0 Ivan. Ken 0 Page. .Alan 1 0 0 6 Kantor, }iv .... 8 8.0 Duranko. Pete II Rassas, Nick 1 () 0 6 Sheridan, Phil I 0 0 6 PASSING .Azzaro, Joe 0 0 5 5 f-I.AYKK ATT. CO Ml*. IXT C PT I). YDS. TD PCT.f 
.\D TOTALS 28 3 14 191 Huarte. John .. 128 72 7 1273 12 .57(1 OPP. TOTALS 5 0 5(2p )35 Bonvecliio, .Ale.x 13 4 I) .267 
Entered as Seconti Class matter October 1,1939, at the Post Office. 

Notre Dame ALUMNUS 
Vol. 42, No. 5 
November, 1964 Notre Dame, Ind.. under the act of .August 24, 1912. i^ 
Return Requested 






