The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
IJkk^O h^wwa 
Eighty-ninth Annual 

COMMENCEMENT 
and 

REUNIONS 
June 2-3-4 
FATHER COUGHLIN AL SMITH JOHN McCORMACK MARGARET ANGLIN HON. PAUL V. McNUTT DR. JAMES J. WALSH 
VOL 
Cletien 
1933 



50 TIMERS 
Whea the chef unloads his luscious cargo 
What a smart way to choose your ship for a perfect trip! Follow the "50 Timers," those wise, seasoned travelers who know the ropes, who know "travel"—and have chosen White Star fifty times and more. They know the diflFerence between a meal and a feast, the importance of roomy cabins .. . they know—and they've chosen White Star over and over! 
Here are the "50 Timers'" favorites of today: The Majestic, world's largest ship; Olympic. Also the Georgic (new) and Britannic, England's largest motor liners, and the well-known Adriatic. 
TOURIST CLASS IS "TOP" VIA RED STAR 
Minmwaska, Minnetonka, Pennland, Westemland 
—on these mighty liners, the finest on the ship is yours at low Tourist Class rates! From $106.50 one way; $189 round trip. 
For sailings to Ireland, England, France /^^^\ and Belgium, see your local agent, or faSSS^o your own Graduate Travel Service. \M^^/ 


WHITE STAR LINE 
RED STAR LINE - I. M. M. Company No. 1 Broadway, New York Other offices in principal cities. Agents eveiywhere 
May, 1933 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 

COMMENT 

This issue of the ALUMNUS is re­duced somewhat in size for the sake of economy and speed. 
So many things and such good things have been arranged for Com­mencement that the Alumni Associa­tion is desirous of having: every pos­sible alumnus on the campus for the program. Hence the announcement. 
Also, so many and so splendid were the Club observances of probably the most difficult of the long series of Universal Notre Dame Nights, that the ALUMNUS desired to give these Clubs more recognition than they could hope for in the always crowded and varied Commencement Number of the magazine. 
Contracts for advertising also made the present issue almost indispensable. 
Therefore, we must confess, this "sandwich issue" is not the desperate expending of surplus resources, but another thought for you. 
In return, you are receiving Ballots which are accompanied by a Question­naire and a Bill. 
Please return them all. 

The Ballot will name the men who will guide your Association destinies through the next year — a year as critical, at least, as the one through which we have just about passed. 
The Questionnaire is an expression of the optimism that the Association and the University feel, that, with ad­equate information about you, on file in a central Alumni Office, a more in­telligent program can be planned by your alumni officers, a more compre­hensive and interesting magazine can be published for you, and the co­operation of the University in pro­moting your interests can be more intelligently and effectively enlisted. 
The Bill has been discussed so much and so many times, that the good old "Please Remit" says it all. The Alumni Association is no exception to economic rules. Your' five dollars 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic yemr by the Alnmnx Association of the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame; Jbldiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of sinsle copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subscription to TBE ALUIDniS. Entered as sccond-^dass matter January 1. 1923. at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1879. All correspondence ahoald be addressed to The Kotre Dame Alumnus. Box 81. Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEMBATION 

THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, Secretary-Treasurer 
ALUMNI BOARD 
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C, '90 


Honorary President 
CLARENCE MANION, '22 

President 
TIMOTHY P. GALVIN, '16 ­


First Vice-President 

JAMES E . SANFORD, '15 --­

Second Vice-President 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 

Director 
JOHN F . O'CONNELL, '13 


Director 

ROBERT E . LYNCH, '03 --­

Director 
HUGH A. O'DONNELL, '94 


Director 

GEORGE HIGGINS, '32 --­

Director 

FRANK H. HAYES, '14 --­

(ex officio) Director 

now, when dollars are scarce, will do cal Alumni Clubs — Dean McCarthy, 
more for us, just as it will do more Dean Konop, Father O'Hara, Prof. Downey, Prof. Froning, Registrar 
for you. As the proverbial bird in Riordan, Father Lahey, Prof. Phillips, the hand gets the decision, so the five-Father Cavanaugh, Pat Manion, Prof. 
spot on the line has a decided margin 
Cooney, Prof. Buckley, Prof. Farrell, over a ten on the other side of the Judge Cain, Prof. Ronay, Father Coit­horizon. You can imagine what a ten nerton, and others with similar expe­
riences— report that never in their in the hand looks like, in case you experiences and contacts have they want to pay this year's and next. 
met a more loyal, a more generous However, the policy still holds, until 
(within obvious limitations) or a more common sense do us part, that you helpful group. 
can begin paying for 1933-4 with no 
You are admired. Your support is questions asked about the strange in­
appreciated. terlude through which you—and I— 
This next year let's add to that and who hasn't—passed. 
support the really gratifying feeling of continuing all this help and at the 
The University is probably more same time paying our own way. Five favorably impressed with the Alumni dollars from Oregon, and five from Association, paradoxical as it may 
Texas and five from New York and so seem, than at any previous timel 
on means a little sacrifice here and While we are relying on the Uni­there. The lump sum necessary for versity for more help than at any pre­
the Association, subtracted firom a vious period in our history, neverthe­
strained University budget, means a great deal—^no matter how deserving less the men from the campus who 
our case or how willing the school. :
have gone out in the interests of the University to make contacts with pro­It should not be hard to pay "for spective students, or the men from the glorious privilege of being inde­the campus who have visited the Lo­pendent." ' 
QU I t(MlllltliaillM«IMIIIIIIIIIil tMliaUMitt lllllllllllltlltlttllMIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIUIIIIIIilMIIIIMIMIIIII nMllllllIMIItKIMIIIIMMIIlllllHllilHillM*! Ilinit4lll* initlllMltlllMllltlHMItllttQ 

The General Program of the Eighty-Ninth Annual Commencement 
University of Notre Dame 
(Central Standard Time) 



Friday, June 2 

Alumni Kegistration, Alumni, Dillon and Howard Halls for Campus Residence. Alumni Office for Senior and General Registration. 
The Alumni Golf Tournament will open Friday on the William J. Burke — University Golf Course. 
12:45 P.M. President's Address to the Class of '33 (Private.) 
2:00 P.M. Varsity—Alumni Baseball Game—Cartier Field. 
4:30 P.5L Fourth Annual Meeting of the Council of Local Alumni Clubs. 
6:00 P.M. Reunion Dinners (By Private Arrangement) 
7:00 P.IL Concert by the University Band, Main Quadrangle. 
8:15 P.JL The University Theatre Presents "Richelieu," Washington Hall. 

Saturday, June 3 

Alumni Registration Continues as Above. Alumni Golf Tournament Also Continues. 
8:00 A.1L Mass for Deceased Alumni, Sacred Heart Church. 
9:30 A.M. Last Visit of the Class of '33, Sacred Heart Church (Private.) 
10:00 A.JL Class Day Exercises and Awarding of Honors, Washington Hall. 
12:00 M. Luncheon. 

2:00 P.M. Baseball, Jlichigan State College vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field. 
6:00 P.M. Annual Alumni Banquet, East Hall, University Dining Halls. 
7:00 P.M. Concert, Studebaker Band, Main Quadrangle. 
8:00 P.M. Glee Club Concert, Main Quadrangle (if weather permits) or Washington Hall. 

Sunday, June 4 

8:30 A.SL Academic Procession—Main Building to Sacred Heart Statue on Quadrangle (if weather permits) or to University Gymnasium. 
9:00 A.M. Solemn Pontifical Mass—Quadrangle or Gymnasium. Celebrant, His Excellency, John Francis Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne. 
Baccalaureate Sermon, Rev. Charles E. Coughlin, pastor of the Shrine of the LJttle Little Flower, Royal Oak, Michigan. 
Music, the Moreau Seminary Choir and the University Glee Club. 
Mass will be followed by the blessing of the Senior Flag. 
11:00 A.M. Raising of the Senior Flag, Main Quadrangle. Music by the University Band. 
12:00 M. Luncheon of the Monogram Club, University Dining Halls. 
4:00 P.M. Awarding of Degrees, Gymnasium. Commencement Address, the Honorable Paul V. McNutt, Governor of the State of Indiana. 
8:00 P.M. Presentation of the Laetare Medal to Mr. John McCormack—Gymnasium. 
IIIMIII""'*"*"'" iniimill""""MlllllHHli"""<«l mill llliiiiiitiiiiliiiiiiiii* i i IIIIIIIIIMII tlilliiillllillllllltilllililiiuiltilltllil mniiiniiitiitniniimnim|S| 




TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. XI. MAY, 1933 No. 8 
Gala Graduation Program to Greet Guests 
Laetare Jubilee, Baccalaureate by Father Coughlin, Commencement Address by Governor McNutt, and Numerotis Developme^its of Anmial Features Offer Brilliant Week-End. 
Because of the variety and bril­liance of the entire Commencement program, this story will take the events in their chronological order. Please read it through for your ben­efit—every paragraph packs a punch in its facts. 
Housing 

As in other years, the University generously opens its halls without cost to the returning alumnus, on Friday, Saturday and Sunday nights. The two great residence halls. Alum­ni and Dillon, will be available, as last year, and in anticipation of a record crowd, Howard Hall (the or­iginal Old Students Hall) has been included. Alumni will register in the Halls where they will reside. Seniors and local alumni or alumni accomo­dated off-campus will register in the Alumni Office. 
Classes from 1920 on will reside in Dillon, the residence hall next to the Dining Halls. Before 1920, alumni will reside in Alumni Hall. Howard will be reserved for overflow. 
Golf 

A 36-hole medal play tournament for alumni will be conducted on the William J. Burke-University course on the campus. All alumni are elig­ible and urged to participate. Eev. Francis C. Ott, Los Angeles, who is studying at Notre Dame this year, has kindly consented to supervise the tournament. The name of the win­ning alumnus will be engraved on the perpetual trophy on display in the golf Club House. The members of the Class of '33 are eligible. All alumni have the privilege of the course during Commencement without charge, whether in the tournament or not. (The type of tournament was de­cided upon in view of the impossible sibility of setting up an equitable handicap system for alumni from all courses and clubs.) 
Pre side n t' s Address 
The President of the University will give his annual address to the Class of 1933 in Washington Hall on Friday at 12:45. This event is limited to the Class members. 
A lu7)ini --Varsity Baseball 
.A.t two o'clock Friday afternoon a team of "old-timers" will take the Varsity baseball team on Cartier Field. Capt. Bill Sheehah, '25, has undertaken the organization of the alumni. All baseballers in the area or who are coming back for Friday —make it a point to be here—are urged to enlist in advance so equip­ment can be made available. Any­body with a peg to iirst left in his system is eligible for the alumni. 
F0 urth An7iual Council of Local Alumni CI Jib s 
At 4:30 Friday the Fourth Annual Council of Local Alumni Clubs will be held in the lounge of the Lay Fac­ulty Dining Hall. All Clubs are urged to appoint a definite delegate or delegates to this meeting, and to notify the Alumni Office of the name or names. Supper in the Dining Halls will follow the meeting. 
Reunion Dinners 

Friday night the Class of 1928 is holding its five-year Reunion Dinner and meeting at the Coquillard Golf Club at 8:00 p. m. The other Eeunion Classes are urged to make arrange­ments for dinners or meetings Fri­day night, if any are planned, as the remaining program is so filled as to make other arrangement impractical. Local members of the Class could make such arrangements with mini­mum difficulty. The Alumni Office will be glad to co-operate to its lim­its in aiding such arrangements. Write your Class Secretary! 
University Band Plays 
At 7:00 p. m. Friday, the Univer­sity Band under the direction of Prof. Joseph Casasanta, '23, will give its annual Commencement Concert on the Main Quadrangle. A similar concert given to the students this month revealed the Band in excellent condition and the program one of wide and popular appeal. 
Theatre Offers "Richelieu" 
Theatre fans who remember the University Theatre's presentation of "Journey's End," "Julius Caesar," and "Abraham Lincoln," will be look­ing forward with pleasurable antici­pation to "Richelieu" at 8:15 Friday night in Washington Hall. Prof. Frank Kelly, '21, is busy directing an able class of actors in the cast and and Prof. Albert Doyle, '27, will carry the title role. 
Reunion Mass Saturday 
-A.t 8:00 a. m. Saturday in Sacred Heart Church the annual Mass for Deceased Alumni will be celebrated. All alumni, particularly the Eeimion Classes for whose deceased members the Mass is particularly celebrated, ought to make special effort to attend. 
'33's Last Visit 

At 9:30 the Class of '33 pays its official Last Visit to Sacred Heart Church in a private ceremony of particular dignity and impressive­ness. 
Class Day Exercises 
Going directly from the Church to Washington Hall, the Seniors there conduct their Class Day exercises, the Oration, the Poem, the Valedic­tory, etc., and the University awards the many academic prizes of the year. 
Baseball Game 

Michigan State College and its always snappy baseball nine supply the opposition for the Notre Dame team on Cartier Field at 2 o'clock Saturday afternoon. 
The Aluvi7ii Banquet 
At 6:00 p. m. in the East Hall of the Dining Halls the Annual Alumni Banquet will be served. -\s for the banquet itself, the University's hos­pitality is of too long standing to comment further. The University Band will play a concert during the banquet The President of the Asso­ciation will deliver an address this year which will be of particular sig­nificance to every alumnus and a high spot in the history of the Asso­ciation. President Manion's eloquence and learning are a treat under any circumstances and it is doubtful if 
214 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS May, 1933 
anyone could more clearly and em­phatically analyze our present prob­lems and prospects. The brief busi­ness meeting will be incorporated in the banquet program. Seniors will be present at the banquet as well as alumni. Through the courtesy of the University, there is no charge. 
Glee Club Concert 
Guests of alumni and Seniors face no embarrassing lull during the Alumni Banquet On the quadrangle if the weather permits, or otherwise in Washington Hall, at 8:00 p. m. the University's famous Glee Club, now under contract for a tour of the United States during the entire sum­mer, will put on its Commencement Concert. Programs already given this year and the annual nature of Prof. Casasanta's singing organization re­quire no further recommendation in this particular organ. 
Baccalaureate Mass 
Sunday offers one of the great days in Notre Dame's history. Seldom has it been the good fortune of the Uni­versity to assemble such an outstand­ing and able group of speakers in such an impressive schedule of events. 
The academic procession starts its dignified progress from the Main Building at 8:30 Sunday morning. At the present writing, and somewhat dependent upon the weather of the day, its destination will be either the shaded part of the Main Quadrangle where an altar will be erected near the Sacred Heart statue, or the Uni­versity Gjnnnasium where the ele­ments are less a matter of concern and the accommodations adequate for the crowds. 
His Excellency, John F. Noll, D.D., will celebrate the Mass. The famous Moreau Seminary Choir and the Uni­versity Glee Club will join in the musical program of the Mass. 
The Baccalaureate Sermon brings to Notre Dame the famous Father Charles E. Coughlin, pastor of the Shrine of the Little Flower, Eoyal Oak, Michigan. Familiar with the millions who have listened to Father Coughlin's radio addresses on the economic state of the nation, familiar with his brilliance and with his elo­quence, the Baccalaureate address of 1933 promises to stand out in a long line of brilliant Baccalaureate ad­dresses. 
Admission to the Mass, if in the Gymnasium, will be by ticket. Alumni can secure these tickets from the Aliunni Office, without charge. 
The Senior Flag, presented on Washington's birthday, will be blessed after the Mass and the Class of '33 marches with it to the flag pole on the Main Quadrangle, where it is raised, to fly over the campus for the ensuing year. 
Monogram Luncheon 
The annual reunion of Monogram men will be held and particularly obser\'ed with the traditional lunch­eon in the University Dining Halls. 
Ate a T (ling of Degrees 
The major event of the annual Commencement, the awarding of de­grees, will be held at 5:00 p. m. in the University Gymnasium. The time has been moved ahead a half hour to allow for the evening program, which is an innovation this year. 
Besides the awarding of the 531 acade:nic and honorary degrees, the occasion offers the happy outlook of a distinguished Commencement ad­dress by the Hon. Paul V. McNutt, Governor of the State of Indiana. Governor of the State which char­tered the Universitj' in 1844, Gov. JIcNutt comes here with a natural background of interest and import­ance. Combining with this his keen interest and active participation in education as dean of the law school of Indiana, and his broad experience as an orator and leader in civic and military organizations. Gov. McNutt takes deserved place in the brilliant line of Commencement speakers. 
CA.MPUS o x CENTRAL STANDARD TIME 
Laetare Medal 
John McCormack, famous tenor and outstanding Catholic layman, has proved a meritorious choice for Laetare Medalist in 1933, the Golden Jubilee of the Founding of the honor, and his acceptance of the Medal, for­mally, during the Commencement, adds a brilliant event to an already excellent program. The presentation will be made at a special ceremony in the University Gymnasium at 8:00 
p. m. Sunday night. Admission will be by ticket, which for alumni, can also be secured through the Alumni Office, without charge. The program for the event has not yet been an­nounced, but such distinguished Med­alists as Margaret Anglin, Alfred E. Smith and Dr. James J. Walsh have signified their intention to be pres­ent. 
S u m mar u 
The summary of the above pro­gram is—be here. 
Bring your golf clubs, a good dis­position, and a keen ear. 
You'll be educated, elevated, rec­reated, well fed and probably -victim of enough sleep to tide you oyer. 
COME BACK FOR COMMENCEMENT 

Fred Murphy, '92, U. S. Delegate to Geneva 
Frederick E. Murphy, '92, famous farm authority of the Northwest, publisher of the Minneapolis Tribune, has just been appointed by Roosevelt as one of three U. S. delegates to the wheat conference at Geneva, Switzerland. Several newspaper com­ments are of interest: 
"Frederick E. Murphy believed that men learn from their successes, rather than their failures. So when hard times started in the farm belt in 1921, he used his Minneapoh"s Tribune to scout successful farmers and to organize and educate for success. 
"The Minnesota Plan, widely di­versifying crops, was the result. Authoritative opinion is that his is the most important one-man contrib­ution to American agriculture in the period of lean years. . . . 
"Like President Roosevelt, he cour­ageously overcame a physical handi­cap. For 20 years he had stooped as the result of an injury to his spine. At 48 he straightened his body by exercise 'and by will power,' ac­cording to his friends. As president and publisher of the Tribune, and as the evangel of diversified farming, he spread the gospel of sound farm economics, using his paper to induce farmers to drop raw grains and be­come manufacturers of finished prod­ucts— eggs, butter, cheese, fruits, vegetables. He got financial backing for the Northwest from J. P. Morgan and Co. 
"In 1921 he engaged and paid 12 agricultural experts who built the Minnesota plan and who are still working. He developed his 6,000 acre Femco farm, at Breckenridge, Minn., as an agricultural laboratory and in­cidentally a paying enterprise. He is a republican, another instance of President Roosevelt's disregard of partisanship in his search for effi­ciency." 
Mr. Murphy and the other two delegates, Henry Morgenthau, Sr., New York, and George C. Haas, Washington, D. C., sailed aboard the Bremen this month, meeting at the ship for the first time. Mr. Murphy said he was in the dark as to the mission but was told in Washington that instructions would be wirelessed. "I think representatives of these countries are just going to talk," he said, "and see if they can't get to­gether on some basis to reduce wheat acreage." Argentine, Australia and Canada are the other participating countries. The conference is prelim­inary to the international economic conference in London in June. 
CAMPUS ON CENTRAL STANDARD TI.ME 

Ma;/, 1933 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 

Gus F. Meehan Establishes N. D. Scholarships Athletic Staff U Retained 
Alumni of Notre Dame will be pleased to learn from the following news story of the generous gesture of loyalty to Notre Dame revealed by the will of the late Augustus Farns­worth Meehan, '90, who died April 15. In addition to the value of the schol­arships themselves, there is, in the bequest, keen evidence of the situa­tion of Catholic education in the states Mr. Meehan knew so well. His bequest promises to do immeasurable good by publicity and example far be­j'ond the intrinsic value of the several scholarships. 
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. —Thirty per cent of the income of the estate of the late Augustus Farnsworth Meehan, Chattanooga industrialist and Notre Dame alumnus, whose death was recorded in the previous issue of The Bulletin, will, after the expiration of life estates left to rela­tives and servants, go to the Catho­lic schools in Kentucky, Tennessee, Georgia, -Alabama, Virginia and Tex­as, another twenty-five per cent will go to the poor and infirm of Chatta-. nooga, fifteen per cent to the Home for the Aged at Nashville and the re­maining thirty per cent to the or­phanages, irrespective of creed, of the states whose Catholic schools are aided, according to the terms of the will made public here April 29. 
The estate is said to be valued at about a million dollars. These be­quests take efl"ect only after the en­joyment of certain life estates, and the income only is to be devoted to the purposes specified. The Hamilton National Bank is named trustee, and is given power to distribute the in­come directed to orphanages to other states in addition to those named, should it deem it expedient to do so. 
The will creates at once six schol­arships at the University of Notre Dame, to be known as the Meehan Scholarships, to be awarded to high school graduates in six states, one each from the states of Georgia, Ten­nessee, Kentucky, Alabama, South Carolina and Virginia, an income of .?4,170 per annum being set aside for this purpose. The awards are to be made on the basis of ability and char­acter, irrespective of creed. Mr. Mee­han's sisters, nieces and nephews, and friends and servants are remembered specifically in the will. 
Mr. Meehan, a native of Covington, Ky., was one of the most generous supporters of Catholic activities in Chattanooga and Tennessee. After graduating at Notre Dame and Cor­nell, he went to Mexico to engage in the foundry and manufacturing busi­ness with his father, serving as pres­ident of the Monterey Foundry and Manufacturing Co.; he later became president of the Eoss-Meehan Brake Shoe Co. The business grew steadily, and in 1924, Mr. Meehan invented "Meehanite metal," a high-tensile cast iron, and chartered the Meehan­ite Metal Corporation to manufacture it; "Meehanite Metal" is now manu­factured by many foundries through­out the United States, operating un­der licenses of the Meehanite Metal Corporation. 
Mr. Meehan was a former presi­dent of the Sons of the American Revolution, the first local president, and a former state president; in 1912 he was president of the Chattanooga Chamber of Commerce and in 1918 he was president of the American Malleable Iron Association. He was president of the Louisiana Furs, Inc., director of the Hamilton National Bank, Chattanooga, and a director in a number of other corporations. In 1926, Notre Dame gave him the hon­orary degree of Master of Science. His favorite sports were hunting and fishing; he hunted big game in Wy­oming, Canada and Alaska, and en­joyed tarpon fishing at Boca Grand, Fla. Modest and retiring, the bene­factions which he did privately in life are reflected by his will. Mr. Meehan died in Cincinnati, April 15, after an illness of several months. The funeral was held from the Church of the Blessed Sacrament, Fort Mitchell, Ky., with interment at St. Mary's Cemetery, near Covington, Kentucky. 
Ray Kelly Detroit Counsel 
Raymond J. Kelly of the Class of '15 and former president of the Notre Dame club in Detroit, and former General Counsel of the Department of Street Railways, has been ap­pointed Corporation Counsel of the City of Detroit by Mayor Frank Couzens. 
Mr. Kelly, a former Department Commander of the American Legion, of the Department of Michigan, was a candidate for National Commander of the American Legion at the Port­land Convention last fall and is, at present. National Executive Commit­teeman for the American Legion of Michigan. His home address is 18073 Fairfield ave., he is the proud father of an even half-dozen of little Kellys, three boys and three girls, the oldest a boy of 13 the youngest a girl of two and one-half months. 
CAMPUS ON" CENTRAL STANDARD TIME 
Announcement was made this week by the Reverend M. A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., '17, Chairman of the Univer­sity Board of Control of the retention of five incumbent members of the Notre Dame athletic department for the school year 1933-'34. 
Athletic Director Jesse C. Harper, Head Football Coach Heartly W. An­derson, and assistant football coaches John Voediseh, Marchmont Schwartz, and Nordy Hoffmann each signed a one-year contract to continue in his present capacity. 
The sixth member of the staff, Tom 
Conley, signed a similar contract to 
act as assistant football coach earlier 
in the spring. Conley has been on 
the campus since early in March and 
took over his duties during the spring 
training season. 
The one-year contracts signed by Harper and Anderson were the third in succession for each of the men. Following the death of Knute Eockne in 1931 his coaching and Athletic Di­rector duties were assumed by the two men. 
End Coach Ike Voediseh has been on the Irish coaching staff since his graduation in 1928. Hoffmann and Schwartz were added to the ranks of assistants following the conclusion of their playing careers in the 1931 season. Tom Yarr, center coach last fall and captain of the 1931 Notre Dame team, is the only member of last year's staff who will not return next fall. 

McCarthy Back from East 
Dean James E. McCarthy, of the College of Commerce, returned Tues­day from a three-week trip in the East during which he interviewed prospective students and their par­ents. Dean McCarthy's first stop was in Erie, New York. He ended his tour at Wheeling, W. Va., after pass­ing through Massachusetts, Connecti­cut, Rhode Island, New Jersey, Penn­sylvania, Maryland and Washington, 
D. C. 
The Dean's longest stay was in New York City where he spent three days. In Providence, R. I., he at­tended the celebration of Universal Notre Dame night, April 24, of the Rhode Island Club. 
Dean McCarthy stated that in most of the towns he had visited there was evidence of economic recovery. He ventured the prediction that within another four months there will be a very decided improvement in busi­ness conditions. What the Dean bases his conviction on is that inventories of wholesalers and retailers are very low at present and have to be replen­ished. This means that factories are employing more men and working longer hours, and that the price of raw materials is going up. 
ALUMNI CLUBS 


Nationwide Observance of U. N. D. Night 
Response of Local Clubs to Appeal for Initiative During Financial Crisis in Nation and in General Association Exceeded All Hopes; Club Activities Reflect New and Permanent Strength. 
The following accounts reflect the widespread and enthusiastic celebra­tions which marked the Tenth An­nual Universal Notre Dame Night. Many Clubs that held observances have not yet reported, but the Clubs herewith listed give sufficient evi­dence of the spirit with which the organizations went to work to over­come adverse conditions which were the most unfavorable since the first Night in 1924. 
The National officers take this opportunity, publicly, through the ALUMNUS, to express their gratitude to the alumni whose efltorts made this world tribute to Notre Dame success­ful. At this particular time, too, the reflection of alumni loyalty furnished by these observances is of especiallj' stimulating significance to the Uni­versity. 

CA.MPUS OS CENTRAL STANDARD TIME 
BOSTON The Hotel Kenmore was the scene of the Boston Club's observance of Universal Notre Dame Night and was in every way the most success­ful affair we have conducted to date. Sixty of the boys sat do^\-n to a fine meal, and were then treated to a fine list of speakers. We had as our guest of honor Dr. Edward Anderson, '22, the new head coach at Holy Cross; Joe McKenney, head coach at Boston College, and Hon. John J. Bums of the Massachusetts Superior Court. Charles C. Oilman, a local celebrity, did a wonderful job as toastmaster and kept the entire group in convulsions. 
Among the other celebrities present 
 observed Charlie Crowley, former coach at Columbia, John McManmon, Joe Sheeketski, Joe Locke, John Jlil­ler, the old N. D. fullback, Jim Dooley, Dan O'Connor, the old Georgetown star and friend of "Cap" Edwards, Joe Gartland, Bob Hearn, Joe Sullivan, Dr. Sherry, Pat Cohen, Bill Higgins, the old N. D. ball play­er, and a host of others too numerous to mention. 
Saw Dean James E. McCarthy in the afternoon of the 24th and had a most enjoyable hour with him. We were verj' sorry that his date with Charlie Grimes prevented his appear­ance at our dinner. Charlie certain­ly beat me to the gun on Mr. Mc­Carthy. 
Have started monthly Club dinners here and they have been very suc­cessful. On April 10th we seated 35 for the first meeting. They are scheduled for the second Monday in the month. Things are looking up hereabouts. 
COME BACK FOR COMMENCEMENT 
BUFFALO 
While the nation is shuffling off to Buffalo, no official word has come from there of the meeting on the 24th. However, again, the campus eye sees all and knows most of it. Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C. S. C , eloquent purveyor of the principles of advertising and the morals of newspaper making, made the trip from the campus to the lake city to address the gathering. The inten­tions were, at last official report, to assemble a number of prospective students as well as alumni and friends. 
DALLAS The Notre Dame Club of Dallas entertained April 24 at Brook Hollow Golf Club with a dinner and business session. The Eev. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., member of the faculty of St. Edward's University, Austin, was a special guest for the dinner. While \'isiting at Dallas he celebrated Mass and preached at the Holy Trinity Church. The members of the Club attended Mass and communion in a body. A breakfast at Melrose Court followed. The news from Dallas is that the Notre Dame system of edu­cation received a great boost from Father Mooney's sermon. 
President Jim Swift of the Club has entered the law firm of McBride, O'Donneii and Hamilton, a leading Dallas firm. For six years President Swift was attorney for the Employ­ers Casualty Co. 
DETROIT 
The Notre Dame Club of Detroit has not been burning up the circuit in the matter of activities but we have had a couple of small informal gatherings this spring. The first was held at the Statler Hotel for the pur­pose of electing officers for the com­ing year. The second took the form of a Universal Notre Dame Night Stag Party. 
The officers of the Detroit organi­zation as follows: President, John T. Higgins, 1632 Buhl Bldg.; \'ice-presi­dent, Charles 0. Molz, c. o. The De­troit Neivs; treasurer, Edmund A. Polhaus, c. o. Graham-Paige Motors Co.; secretary, Paul J. Dooley, 6202 Hamilton Ave. 
Members of Board of Governors: Don P. O'Keefe, c o. Che%Tolet Motor Co., Gen. Motors Bldg.; Harry F. Kelly, First National Bk. Bldg.; John 
E. Moore, G. M. Research Bldg.; J. Bell Moran, Penobscot Bldg.; James Sullivan (newly elected), 102 Third street, Royal Oak, Mich. 
With the invaluable aid of the sec­retary of the National Alumni Asso­ciation we were able to have Dean Konop (whose first name still re­mains a dark secret in these parts) with us for a little message from the campus. This he gave us in such a clear, pointed and sympathetic man­ner, that the 40-odd loquacious beer drinkers present did not believe he had kept them quiet for over 30 min­utes. The Dean had a few good stories and he told them well. The general impression was that he is a great fellow. And I can say with all assurance that he gets our vote on anything he wants to run for. 
Jack Courtney, butcher on the Notre Dame news stand in the early '20s has grown to be a real travel­ing salesman, covering the midwest­ern states for the Electro-Refrac­tories and Alloys Corp. of Buffalo. John Sweeney '28 is with the Equit­able Life of N. Y. in that company's Detroit office. Dr. Harvey Brown has a junior in the family, arrived March 10th named after his illustrious father. 

May, 1933 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 217 
The mailing list underwent a num­ber of changes of address and a few-additional names. All the speakers were either brief, or so good that they seemed to be brief. The beer was fairly good and easily available. The sociability was at a high point. So passed into history another N. D. Night. 
I also want to mention a matter that was decided at the business meeting of the club at the time offi­cers were elected. Retiring president, John E. Moore, presented an idea which he had worked out with John 
T. Higgins for the protection and preservation of the "Scholarship Fund" which we have built up and by which we have carried a student down at the University for several years. The club it was decided, should be incorporated as a non­profit corporation and that the char­ter and by laws would so prescribe the process by which funds might be withdrawn from the Scholarship Fund that there would be a minimum of danger of the funds being used in any but the way in which the don­ors intended they should be used and thereby safeguard the fund and at the same time make it more attract­ive to donors who could be so much better assured against possibility of misapplication of any funds they might care to contribute. The appli­cation papers for the charter were signed and Jack Higgins intrusted with the task of putting the job through the legal routine. 
Paul Dooley. 
CHICAGO 

The Chicago Club's secretary was e\-ident!y so thrilled and appalled at the wealth of Notre Dame mater­ial presented there on Universal Notre Dame Night by the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C, that the account of the meeting itself has been delayed in transit. But knowing the Chicago Club and Father Cavanaugh as the world does, we can wait with the assurance that speaker and audience enjoyed the evening and profited from its richness of reminiscence and character. 
CO.ME BACK FOR COSDIENCEMENT 
CAPITAL DISTRICT 

The Notre Dame Club of the Capi­tal District observed Universal Notre Dame Night Avith a stag dinner at the "Golden Nuggett" in Schenec­tady. 
Officers elected for the coming year are: Tom Dollard, '21, 200 Ninth street, Troy, N. Y., president; Ron­ald McNamee, Ballston Spa., N. Y., vice-president; John Vincent Smith, '29, 252 First St., Albany, secretary-treasurer. 
The Board of Governors are: Jo­seph Carey, Jack Casazza, F. Jerome Connolly, Frank Duquette, John Mee­han. 

Informal talks were made by, John Meehan, Tom Dollard, Ronald Mc­Namee, Frank Duquette and your co-correspondent. "3.2" was dispensed, which may account for the number of speakers. All 15 of the faithful who turned out for the dinner were unanimous in declaring that they had an enjoyable evening. 
President Dollard promises to call an early meeting of Officers and "governors" at which serious consid­eration will be given to the formu­lation of plans for the coming year. 
John Vincent Smith. 

CAMPUS OX CENTRAL STANDARD TI.ME 
GREEN BAY 

At our meeting on Universal Notre Dame Night, the same officers were re-elected, namely Harold Londo, '24, president; John V. Diener, '09, vice-president, and myself to continue as secretary et cetera. The meeting was held at Collins Follett's new home, and we more than made up in en­thusiasm for our lack of numbers. 
Edmond Arvey, '09, Dr. Henry At­kinson, Arnold Biebel, Bob Flatley, Franklin Deuster, Jim Farrell, John Diener, Harold Londo, Dr. Warren Hagerty and Joseph Martin all joined in calling the party a success. 
Bob Lynch, '03, was not with us because he had to be in Madison helping the governor decide how many glasses of beer we ought to get for a nickel. Bob was elected state assemblyman last fall. 
John V. Diener, '09, was re-elected mayor of Green Bay last month. The voters of Green Bay seem to have the habit of marking a cross after his name although John still puts in a couple uneasy hours while the vote is counted. 
In closing I would like to invite the Notre Dame men in the surround­ing territory to our meetings. If they will send their names and addresses I shall see that they get a notice of each meeting. 
Levi A. Geniesse, '24. 
HIAWATHALAND 

SeeATiteen fellows met here last evening from the Hiawathaland Club on the Universal Notre Dame night program. John Lemmer of Escanaba gave an interesting talk on the devel­opment and academic activities of Notre Dame. James Stewart of Nor­way and Joseph Lauerman of Men­ominee, former student managers, gave informal talks on team routine. Father Simon, President of Jordan College, Menominee, was the guest speaker. Others present were Frank Aley of Escanaba, Father LaMothe of Rapid River, Henry Lauerman, John O'Hara, Jim Gleason of Men­ominee, E. J. Dundon and Mike Khoury of Iron Mountain, Michigan. The same officers who served last year were re-elected. 
I brought up the matter of having some one from the school visit the schools of the Peninsula. John Lemer thought a good idea would be to have some one at the Escanaba Re­lays on June 3. Charles Bachman is supposed to come with a delegation from Michigan State and another delegation is coming from Marquette University. Mr. Lemmer is writing direct to you about the matter. 
Norman Bartholomew. 
IC-VNE COUNTY 

Thought possibly you might like to hear about our Kane County Club re­union on Universal Notre Dame Night. After mailing our invitations and contacting everyone possible in .A,urora (\vith Lawrence McNemey, '06, of Elgin pulling strings in the northern half of the county) we man­aged to have twenty-two of the boys present. Not as many as we had hoped would come, but enough to en­joy one of the typical Brownson Hall smokers. The only real difference be­tween the two was that we had some of the new 3.2!!! Can't you just im­agine the boys setting up a half bar­rel in Brownson pool room! 
I am also sending you a clipping from our local paper concerning Clar­ence Ruddy's appointment as Asst. Attorney General of the State of Il­linois. I might also say that a recent letter from John Litcher informs me that Maurice T. Murray, '32, of Fond du Lac, Wis. was elected Clerk of the Circuit Court of Fond du Lac County last fall. 
Well Jim, that is about all this time. Will drop up to visit with you sometime this month. Clarence Rud­dy and myself are e.\tremely anxious to organize a large active club in this county but we don't have much or­ganization. Will stop up to get some ideas from you. 
Following is a list of these present on -A-pril 24th: 
Herbert Braun, '27, Aurora, Walter Cyr, '25, Aurora, Joseph Feldott, 'IS, Aurora, Walter O'Malley, '30, Aurora, Clarence Ruddv, Aurora, Paul Am-field, '12, Aurora, Carl Schickler, '27, Aurora, Elbert Case, '25, Wheaton, Lawrenc e NcNemey, '06, Elgin, Frank McCarthv, '06, Wheaton, Elmer Tobin, '15, Wheaton, Paul Funk, '24, Wheaton, William B. Chawgo, '31, Aurora. 
Ted Weist, '23-26, Aurora, Ward Gosselin, 24-'27, Aurora, Paul Och­senschlager, '29-'31, Aurora, Ralph Johns, '29-'31, Aurora, Frank Shep­ard, '29, Aurora, John Badry, '27-'2S, Aurora, Dr. John Tobin, Elected '29, Elgin, Arthur Parker, '19-'20, Elgin, William Amell, 'OG, Aurora.. 
L.A.PORTE 
While the Laporte Club has failed to boast of its achievement, the Alumni Office happens to know that a very fine U. N. D. Night meeting was held there. Coach George Keo­gan of the varsity basketball and baseball teams was the principal speaker. A number of prominent guests, officials and citizens of La­porte, were present, as were a group of boys who are interested in coming to Notre Dame. A. Gordon Taylor, president of the Club, organized and presided at the meeting. 
COME BACK FOR C05IMEXCEMENT 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
The above heading will convey the news to you that I have actively joined the ranks of the Legal Profes­sion and have erected a shingle at 307 Camp St. After receiving my de­gree from Yale in '31 I proceeded to absorb the necessary Civil Law req­uisite to practice in Louisiana and having done so to the satisfaction of the Local Bar Association am now actively engaged in practice. 
The purpose of this letter i.s to in­form you that the Loui.'siana-Missis­sippi Club (Alumni) held the accus­tomed Annual Banquet on Univer.=:al Notre Dame Night at 7:30 P. M. The party took place in the Faculty Din­ing Room of Holy Cross College and was attended by some thirty-five alumni and their friends. 

It was the most enthusiastic meet­ing ever held by the Club and was attended by the largest number of Notre Dame men since the organiza­tion of the club. The faculty of Holy Cross College headed by Brother Gerard, C.S.C. extended a cordial greeting to members and for three hours there was an interchange of anecdotes connected with the life of the speakers during their College Days. The meeting was followed by a sumptuous banquet prepared by the Sisters of the Presentation who are in charge of the refectories for stu­dents and clergy and to say that the feast was satisfying is expressing it 
mildly. The following were unanimously elected to sen'e during the ensuing year: 0. A. Sporl, Jr., Secretary, and Patrick E. Burke, President. During the progress of the banquet many toasts were offered. The first to Very Rev. Charles O'Donnell, C.S.C, who we were informed was re­covering from a serious illness. A wire offering the prayers of the gath­ering for his speedy recovery was dispatched to the beloved President. 
A number of the Holy Cross Fac­ulty made very interesting talks. 
Amongst them were: Brother Gerard, C.S.C, President, Brother Florentius, C.S.C, Brother Florence, C.S.C, Brother Gordian, C.S.C, Brother Ben­edict, CS.C, Brother Aquinas, C.S.C, Brother Leonard, C.S.C, Rev. Maurice Rigley, C.S.C, and Rev. Philip . Beaghan, C.S.C, of Sacred Heart Church. 
Brother Leonard has achieved fame on account of his successful produc­tion of "Journey's End" and "Three Live Ghosts" during the College year. 
The members of the Alumni present who made talks during the evening were Joseph Dohan, '02, (Varsity Baseball Pitcher), Fabian Johnson, '12, Edw. J. Redmond, '30, Patrick E. Burke, '88, Alvin Hovey-King (who attended the Minims), C. A. Sporl, Jr., '28, Lionel Favret, James Favret, John Davis of the local office of the Postal Telegraph and a recent gradu­ate. Austin Boyle who is making New Orleans his home and rapidly at­taining fame if not fortune by writ­ing feature articles for the local Item and Item-Tribune. Others present in­cluded Bernard Nalty of Hamond, Louisiana, Coach John Lynch of Holy Cross College, Professor James Mc-Quade of the College. Others not in attendance included Charles de la Vergne, Frank Chalona, and Steve de los Reyes who expressed regret at being unable to attend. 
It is our pleasure to report that the Treasurer is still in town and we do not feel it necessary to bond him at the present time inasmuch as the deficit is in healthy condition and the finances were not affected directly by the recent financial chaos. When in­flation arrives in these parts we will seriously consider the question of a permanent Treasurer and take the necessary steps to have him heavily bonded. 

A few present at the banquet ex­pressed the hope of attending the Commencement exercises in June. Will let you know later if they ma­terialize. Regards to yourself and my friends at Notre Dame. 
"Bo" Burke, '28. 

P. S. Amongst those present was the father of A\ Vitter at present attend­ing the College at South Bend. 
KANSAS CITY 

Being treasurer of a Club these days really entails no work at all so due to the fact that our worthy sec­retary, "Rome" Dugan, is on his honeymoon in the sunny South at present, the task has befallen me to inform you as to the outcome of our meeting on Universal Notre Dame Nigiht. 
The meeting was held at the Hotel Baltimore and when the time to start 
arrived most of the members were present—much to the amazement of all. About 75 persons were present including 'Fog' Allen and Bill Har­giss of Kansas University; 'Moon' MuUins from St. Benedict's College; Frank Carideo from Missouri Uni­versity; Major Fleming, former ath­letic director at West Point; and a host of others too numerous to men­tion. Our club president, Dan Foley, did a nice job of arranging things and we were furnished talkie pic­tures of 'Rock' and his teams, a little high powered entertainment and plenty of the new 3.2 national drink. In brief, to use the trite expression, a good time was had by all. 
Things moved along rapidly and not much time was devoted to trans­acting any of the weighty matters on our business calendar—in fact, the present officers of the Club were not even voted out. However, we intend at one of our meetings in the near future to cast a few ballots and at that time determine in whose hands will lie the leadership of our Club for the coming year. Many plans and ideas are blossoming forth for a real active Notre Dame club of Kansas City and ere long we hope to be do­ing much more in our spare time than has been done pre\nously. We have quite a few Notre Danie men around here and if we could ever get them all lined up at the same time I thing their number would surprise us all. 
Henry J. Massman, Jr. 
CAMPUS ON CENTRAL STANDARD TIME 
LOS -ANGELES 
Because I anticipate a demand from the Alumni throughout the country to know what is happening in this most favored spot, I endeavor to ac­quaint you with the facts. 

First and foremost the Local Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame night with a banquet at the Univer­sity Club. Fortv-nine of the faithful attended. JACK WADDEN.'OG, closed his most successful term as President of the Club by calling for a prayer of thanksgiving that Father O'Donnell was not lost to the Universitv. Re­tiring Treasurer "SID" SIDENFAD­EN, '29, (not Dept. head of Union Oil), and LARRY MOORE, '29, of Fox Film Fame, were voted the grat­itude of the Club for their efficient two years sen-ice. 
Hon. Judge -ALPHONSE A. SCOTT, '20, was unanimously selected to guide the destinies of the Club for the ensuing year, and able orator, THOS.. HEARN, '14, was likewise drafted to serve as vice-president. Other officers elected, (but not without keen com­petition) were FRED PIQUE, '30, Treasurer and EDWARD P. CUN­NINGHAM, '28, Secretarv. 
It is gratifying to us that many Easterners are coming into our fold. New faces include AL FARRELL, '31, and ART SHERRIN, '31, who have set up here in the finance business. REGGIE BITTNER, '29, and "CHET" ASHMAN, '30, have also joined us. Chet is a valued employee of Sears-Roebuck and was responsible for bringing Big Bill Tilden to town recently. Bittner belongs to the army of the unemployed. TOMMY MAD­DEN, '30, is also one of our new citi­zens and a promising voung barrister. CHARLIE GASS, '29^ is well placed in the same profession. Speaking of Lawyers Banker "GENE" KEN­NEDY, '20, was among those passing the recent bar exams. SPIKE ENG­L.A.ND, '31, walks in from Redlands occasionally and avows that he is po­litical boss of Riverside County. JOE DALEY, '28, and "DOUG" DALEY, '30, are trying to show their dad how the printing business should be run. Joe's new wife wouldn't let him out the night of our big party, and Doug's little Doug Jr. was breaking in a new tooth so Doug didn't show either. Speaking of babies ED .A.SHE, '26, is again a proud daddy, this time it is Junior. 
The latest mail tells us that AL HOW.A.RD, '30, who once called Al­hambra his home, is sharing his job as assistant coach at South Carolina with a new bride, (they say she's Irish). JOHNNY O'BRIEN, '30, tells us that he is going to take Johnny Jr. sailing this summer and doesn't e.x­pect to come West. TOM LIEB, '23, is looking forward to his best year at Loyola XJ. Tom is equally respected for his coaching and his after dinner sepaking in this locality. MANNY \^ZIE , '30, had added a selective boys' training school and a wild game farm to his coaching duties. If it's wild duck, turkey, quail or pheasant that you want, drop our adopted son a line. EMMETT JIcCABE, '29, has finally come down to earth. He is working with the Bureau of Water & Power and does everything but pick his teeth. 
You'll readily see, Jim, that Cali­fornia names make news. There'll be more of them and more about them for your next edition. Sorrv Jim that the '28 boys haven't the "DINERO" to get back to commencement this year. I guess you'll have to give us until 1938 to make a little, 
Ed Cunningham. 

CO.ME BACK FOR COJMENCEMEXT 
MILWAUKEE 

Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated by forty members of the Milwaukee Club at the Balcony Grill in the Plankinton Arcade. Ed Fitz­patrick, '17, was toastmaster at the dinner. After dinner was over, we immediately proceeded with the elec­tion of officers for the coming year. Bill Reddan, '14, was renominated for the presidency, but declined saying that he had had the position for the last three years and felt that some­one else should have it. The follow­ing were elected as officers: President, 
P. Dudley Pearson, '19; Honorary President, Dr. E. J. Dundon, '14; Vice President, Tom Dunn, '27; Vice Presi­dent Tom Kelly, 'IS; Secretary, Dick Cannon, '32; "Treasurer, Paul Brust, '28; Sergeant at Arms, Tom Hearn­don of Racine, '27; Chaplain, the Rev. John O'Boyle of Pio Nono College, and director at Camp Rockne. 
We had a discussion as to the ways and means of using the sixty dollars got at the card party in December. It was finally decided that fifty dol­lars be sent to you to use as you see fit. The remaining ten dollars to be sent to Father O'Hara. 
There followed a discussion as to the next meeting after the boys get home from school. Jim Rank, '28, of­fered the use of his family's cottage on Pewaukee Lake. This proposal was verj- gladly accepted. It was de­cided to have the meeting June 10. 
Ed Yockey, '99, special prosecutor for the Grand Jury in Milwaukee, then gave a short discussion on the operations of a grand jury. Tom Kelly, '18, who ran for Supreme Court Justice of this state at the last elec­tion, spoke briefly on the duties of a Supreme Court Justice. Tom Heam­don told about the High School ath­letics in Racine. 
The meeting was closed shortly after this. 
This is by way of postscript to my other letter. Lloyd Breen, '20, is at present employed by the Milwaukee Telephone Company. 
Professor Downey was in town this last week giving talks in the various schools in this vicinity. Bill Redden, Paul Brust and myself had luncheon with him last Thursday. At that time, we made preliminary arrangements forming a local committee to make a canvass of the local high schools to select students for school. 
We hope to be able to bring some of these prospects down to school Jlay 19 and 20 to see what a really fine school and campus we have. 
Dick Cannon. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 

Just a few lines to let you know that the NOTRE DAME spirit is still alive out here on the Golden Gate al­though we may have been a bit lax on some matters the past year or two. Yes we have had somewhat of a de­pression out here on the coast al­though things as a whole I don't think have been as bad as they were in the East. You notice I use the past tense, for with our new bridges started employment should pick up. 
Now to get down to business as to our doings in these parts. We held our Annual Universal NOTRE DAME dinner a .week ago tonight at the States Hof Brau Restaurant in San Francisco, with a turnout of nineteen including our several guests. We all had a grand time together, sang sev­eral of the old school songs, and everyone was called upon to say a few words. Finally we all agreed to meet oftener in the future and not wait or depend on football alnne to get us to­gether. We all seem to feel that too much of our goodfellowship and get together spirit has been motivated mainly by football broadcasts and be­lieve me when I say that the past two years has shown us who are loyal to Notre Dame primarily as a won­derful school. But the old school has the will I know to come back and win again and dispel all rumors that we are out of big time. More power to Hunk Anderson, and convey to him that we here in Northern California are all back of him, but that we wish he would get that game lined up with the University of California so we can show him and the team some real California spirit. 
We also had the election of officers to serve the coming year and are as follows: 
President: Royal H. Bosshard, '17; Vice-President: Richard J. Fuite, '25; Secretary: Robert B. Hill, o. s., '19. 
The following are the Notre Dame men who attended the dinner last week: 
Dr. J. M. Toner, Royal H. Bos­shard, R. J. Fuite, '25, D. E. Sulilvan, '14, R. E. Hanley, '04, Wm. B. Mc­Donald, '18, Mark Kreutzer, '24, Bert Dunne, '26, Keene Fitzpatrick, '13, Joseph L. Kelleghan, '30, Robert B. Hill, o. s., '19. 
If you have a list of former Notre Dame men who are living in this part of California I would be very glad to receive the names as there must be quite a few whom we have never found. .-Mso would like to have the exact birthdate of Knute Rockne as we are planning to institute if pos­sible an annual dinner on the date of his birth, wt h the idea of inviting all football coaches, players, sport writ­ers and all others interested in per­petuating Knute's memorj'. This plan is still in the planning stage but as we have quite a few schools and col­leges within fifty miles of the bay area among them Slip Madigan, Clipper Smith, Buck Shaw and Bill Ingram who were mighty close to Knute we feel that we might make it go. 
Think that this has covered the ter­ritory in good shape this time so will sign off". With best regards from the NOTRE D.\ME CLUB of NORTH­ERN CALIFORNIA and myself, am, 
Robert B. Hill. 

NEW YORK 

In connection with the Communion Breakfast held oh April 2, the last issue of the ALUMNUS did not give credit to William E. O'Reilly, Jr., for doing fine work as chairman of the committee in charge of that affair. 
The signing of the beer bill brought plenty of the well known "amber fluid""to New York, but it also was the cause of taking away our president, John E. Kenney. Jack has gone to New Castle, Pa., where he is manager of the Union Brewing Company, 510-20 Sampson street. 
The Board of Governors have elected Mr. William A. Walsh, former mayor of Yonkers, as president and Mr. Raymond J. Scanlan is the new vice-president. 
Leo V. McLaughlin has been select­ed to finish Mr. Kenney's term on the Board of Governors. 
Universal Notre Dame Night at the Great Northern Hotel brought out one of the largest crowds that we have had. Our guest of honor for that night was Jim Crowley, Coach of Fordham University. Dan Halpin was chairman for the occasion and did a great job. 
J. P. McEvoy acting as toast­master had many prominent speakers to call on. Jesse C. Harper was there as Notre Dame's representative and told us about the football prospects. Chick Meehan from Manhattan, Lou Little from Columbia, and Jack Cof­fey from Fordham all spoke and wel­comed Crowley to New York as a fellow coach. 
We were honored to have Joe Brandy, famous quarterback of a few years ago, drop in and spend a few minutes with us. 
Mr. Edward JL Hopcraft, Director of the Artists Bureau of the Knick­erbocker Broadcasting Co., was kind enough to bring along several of the entertainers that are heard over sta­tion WMCA. 
Mario Chamlee, Metropolitan star, and John Shevlin, concert singer, completed the fine group of talent that performed for us on that night. 
Judge Hammer of the Supreme Court, Father Kelly, Chaplain of the Catholic Writers Guild, and "Bugs" Baer, famous newspaper writer, all gave very interesting talks. 
Dean McCarthy was the guest of the Board of Governors at a lunch­eon in the New York Athletic club on April 29th. After the luncheon we had a group of prospective students meet Dean McCarthy in the Centre club—^the old Catholic club. We hope that the meeting will have been suc­cessful in obtaining several new stud­ents for Notre Dame. 
The retreat to be held at Morris­town over the week-end of May 19 is being well planned for by William A. Daunt, promoter for the New York 
club. Everyone is looking forward to a pleasant and beneficial week-end. 
J. N. "Doc" Gelson. 
PEORIA 

I suppose my first duty as the newly elected secretary of the Peoria Notre Dame Club, is to write you the happenings of our meeting on Universal Notre Dame Night. We had about 20 or 25 fellows from Peoria and vicinity at a stag dinner at the Endres Hotel in Peoria. The meeting was presided over by Presi­dent John Noppenberger. An election of officers was held in which Albert 
F. Gury, '28, was elected president, Ralph Dalton, '31, Bloomington, 111., vice president and yours truly was given the job as secretary and treas­urer (of what). 
It was decided at the meeting to hold weekly luncheons each Saturday noon at the Jefferson Hotel Grill Room, so if any of the N. D. Boys ever hit Peoria on Saturdays be sure and have them drop in. 
Arrangements were also made to hold a party June 11th for the Alumni in Central Illinois and also the students attending school now who will be home from N. D. at that time; 
If you ever want to get in touch with me I can be reached at 201 Hill­yer Place, Peoria 111. 
Joe Langton. 

CAMPUS ON CENTRAL STANDARD TLME 
RHODE ISLAND 

Dean J. E. JlcCarthy of the Col­lege of Commerce, arriving too late to report the Pro\ndence observance of U. N. D. Night in Rhode Island, the. Editor can only surmise from precedent and announcement that the new Club enjoyed Dean McCarthy's presence and conducted the meeting with the same spirit of enthusiasm, constructive effort and enjoyment withal as the initial meetings. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY 

The Notre Dame Club of The Rock River Valley had a meeting last Mon­day night at a tavern near Byron, 
111. (Byron is about 12 miles from Rockford.) A most enjoyable dinner was sensed, following which was the election of officers for the next year. The "business meeting" preceded the real high spots of the evening's en­tertainment, for the closing hours were filled with tyjiical Notre Dame parley, in which one group tried to outdo the others in stories and etc. A most enjoyable evening was had and plans have already been set in motion for a picnic this summer. 
Following are the officers elected for the ne.\t term: Honorary presi­dent, Frank Petritz, '03; president. 
Ray Marelli, '27; vice-president, Rob­ert Dixon, '25; secretary-treasurer, Frank Howland, '25. 
Hoping to see you in June and un­til then lost of good luck, I am Frank Howland. 
CAMPUS ON CENTRAL STANDARD TIME 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was rather well attended at the Univer­sity Club in Syracuse. President George Kinney for the last time called the meeting to order, asked for nominations for new officers, he himself nominating Vince Brown for president That carried the meeting unanimously and the Notre Dame Club of Syracuse and Central N. Y. lost a very good secretary. 
All members realized this and tried to retain something of him in his past office so they took me be­cause the name Vince is still there. Those much in attendance were Wil­liam E. Byrne, Fred De Laney, Jac­ob Eckel, James Huxford, Leo Kelley, George Kinney, William Sullivan, E. 
C. Schonlau, Vince Brown, H. J. Cor­coran, Patrick J. Quirk and the un­ersigned. Arrangements were made for a golf match the last Thursday in June. 
Vincent Goulet, '26. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 

Observing the calm before what was announced as a prospective storm of acti\-ity next U. N. D. Night, the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley gathered its long active membership for a quiet eve­ning of the old N. D. family life in the sociable and comfortable club rooms of the South Bend K. of C. for an informal program launching the administration of the officers an­nounced last month. 
Violating second-hand promises of immunity, a number of favorite priests from the University were called on during the evening, learn­ing the difference bet\veen "no speeches" and "just a little talk" from the fluent young barrister in command, President Paul Butler. No injustice is intended to the platform eloquence of the speakers when the remark is here made that their im­promptu talks could hardly have been improved upon for the occasion, aud­ience and purpose facing them. 
Retiring President Meehan and Alumni Secretary Armstrong gave the "organization" orations. The con­structitve side of the evening was supplied by the Revs. Eugene and Thomas Burke, C.S.C, Rev. John Reynolds, C.S.C, and Rev. Patrick Dolan, C.S.C, the latter Chaplain of the Club. Rev. Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C, was a belated but welcome arrival and snoke to the Club, outlin­ing the athletic situation which in substance is included under Athletics in this issue for the benefit of the Notre Dame family outside who are frequently called upon to comment on similar criticisms. Coach Heartly An­derson and Marchmont Schwartz were mutually non-committal about the splendid work they and their teams have been doing in Spring practice. John Nicholson, track coach, spoke on his phase of Notre Dame life, and the good humor "Nick" al­ways displays almost con\'inced the boys that he wasn't entirely respon­sible for the Indiana floods. Joe Cas­asanta, '23, brought down a Gold and 
Blue quartet from the University music department who, together with the available 3.2, gave color and harmony to the old-fashioned session. Father Gene Burke, in addition to a store of very entertaining remin­iscences about men and things on the campus, sang several songs of his own composition, accompanying him­self on the piano. 

CAMPUS ON CENTRAL STANDARD TLME 
TWIN CITIES 

I rush herewith an account of the Twin City-Notre Dame Club's Univer­sal Night meeting. Its features were: a stag dinner, planned in the buffet style by President Jack Doyle, and placed in Spanish surroundings in the Hotel St. Paul. We were entertained by the widely-acclaimed voice of Arthur Huth, the pianistic skills of Composer Dick Kinney, both students at the College of St. Thomas, and some talent from the regular pro­gram of the hotel's Grand Cafe. The jewelled feature of the evening was a superb informality, a drifting from table to table, a wealth of stories that regaled all of us. 
Our numbers indicated both absence because of the business and profes­sional world's duties, and, inevitably, some restriction of social movement due to the depression. For your rec­ords, those present included: Louis Chute, '92, Jack Doyle, '28, Joe Schroeder, '31, Jack Duane Yelland, '30, Dr. Wallace Kreighbaum, '22, Walter Hall, '25, Tom Lee, '23, Lee "Ike" Moes, '26, Bob Sullivan, '30, all of Minneapolis; Paul McDermott, '22, Dennv D. Daly, '28, BiU Cleary, '31, Walter Novesky, '24, George Mc­Dermott, '22, Frank Mayer, '26, Ed Fahey, '28, Father Bemie Coughlin, '25, Art Sullivan, '27, Tom Hodgson, '24, Mike Schmidt, '24, Joe Boland, '27, all of St. Paul; our guest Prof. Fenton Spence, St. "Thomas dramatics director; Walter J. Kennedy, '23, New Hampton, Iowa; Herman Piper, '11, Stillwater, Minn.; Danny Coughlin, '22, Waseca, Minn.; Bill Boland, '92, Waverly, Minn. 
Bob Fogerty, '28. 
TRIPLE CITIES 

The Triple Cities Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner at the Hotel Benett in Bing­hamton. New York. A large number of .A.lumni from this section and a couple of prospective students of Notre Dame were present. 
The Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., of Notre Dame, Honorary President of the local Club was the guest of honor for the occasion and gave a very interesting talk. He stressed the importance of the Aliunni to the University and urged the local club to interest qualified young men in Notre Dame. 
The club has made contact with a niunber of prospective students and alal the Alumni intend to follow out this work with help and advice in all cases. 
Election of officers for the ensuing year took place with the following results: 
Joseph Carey, '32, president; Ed­ward O'Brien, vice-president; Joseph Hennessey, '30, secretary; and Don­ald Kennedy, treasurer. 
The remainder of the evening was spent in informal discussions of life at Notre Dame and in the singing of Notre Dame songs. Father Con­nerton rendered several piano selec­tions. A fine time was had by all present. 
Joseph H. Carey. 
CO.ME BACK FOR CO.TOIENCEMENT 
TOLEDO 

As you know Professor Charles Phillips was here for Universal Notre Dame Night. We had a very good gathering at Hillcrest Arms, Tower Room, about 50 men present. 
The following is a short resume of the evening. President Carey gave a short talk commemorating Rockne and introduced Dr. John T. Murphy, toastmaster. Toastmaster Dr. Murphy introduced Dr. Edward McCormick, a man the medical men of Toledo are proud to have in their profession. 
Dr. McCormick gave praise to Prof. Phillips, his accomplishments at Notre Dame and elsewhere. He quot­ed several experiences he had play­ing football against N. D. when at­tending St. Louis. Was very much impressed by combinations formed in the game by men such as Rockne, Eichenlaub, etc. and has since had pleasure to meet them. He gave im­pressions of what N. D. meant to outsiders and especially how it im­presses children. In closing he gave great praise to the movement of alumni clubs of N. D. meeting uni­versally the same night. Much ap­plause followed his address. 
Toastmaster Dr. Murphy intro­duced Prof. Charles Phillips as a man who means as much to Notre Dame scholastically as Rockne to football. 
Prof. Phillips gave an interesting and very humorous incident when speaking at a college for girls. Dis­cussed modem education and N. D. education. Sentiment at N. D. was perpetuated and encouraged as con­trasted to modem education attempt­ing to destroy this. He told of his responsibility to bring the news as he is N. D.'s official delegate, and gave many interesting facts and changes that have happened since he has been associated with the school. He told of responsibility N. D. men have to N. D., namely to live lives of Notre Dame standards; also to feel this responsibility to such an ex­tent as to permit other men this ad­vantage, namely to send men into Notre Dame. 
He talked of false standards that modem education gives. He told of the attractiveness that N. D. life has to the young man;, gave statistics of enrollment, percentages of different nationalities represented etc. All states in the union are represented. He stressed the fact that the vale­dictorian for this year is a football man, showing that athletics really develop the man and gave statistics showing records of men in athletic endeavors and their superior marks. He contrasted cost of attending Notre Dame and elsewhere. Prof. Phillips closed with the following three thoughts he wanted everyone present to remember: 1) Notre Dame is standing the depression wonderfully. 
2) Notre Dame men should not for­get the responsibility they owe to their Alma Mater. 3) Notre Dame men should share \vith other young boys the advantages they have had in Notre Dame education. 
Sandwiches and the amber fluid were served. 
Our annual meeting and election of officers will be held the second Tues­day in May. Will mail you financial report, officers selected, etc. then. 
Fred Sprenger. 

The following is the result of the election held at the annual meeting May 9. 
President, Fred A. Sprenger; vice-president, Ed Hagerty; secretary, Jo­seph Wetli; treasurer, Norber t Scharf; seargent at arms, Paul Aub­ry; trustee (4 yrs.), Ray Tilhnan. 
The annual report was incomplete. A golf tournament will be held by the club at Sunningdale on Sunday, June 11. Chairmen, John Hurley and Art Suder. 
Joe Wetli ^rill advise you of the financial status of the club as soon as report is complete. 
Fred Sprenger. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS il/ai/, 1933 

ATHLETICS; 

The downtown coach, "inside" dope­ster, the enthusiastic sport-page col­umnist, and others have told you either point-blank or in scurrilous in­nuendo that Notre Dame will do any­thing to get a good football player. 
Yoii have probably been informed authoritatively that "the athletic situ­ation at Notre Dame is a rotten mess." 
This news, then, will be a welcome change, from an invective of ignominy to a paean of unstinted praise. It is printed here not in the spirit of brag­gadocio but rather to set your mis­givings at ease, and more important, to give you a ready answer to any un­founded charges which might come your way. Out of modesty, it was not publicized elsewhere. 
C. J. Stradley, dean of registration at Ohio State university, came to Notre Dame during the spring to in­vestigate the athletic situation for the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools. 
"I came with a chip on my shoul­der," he said. "Notre Dame's reputa­tion is not good. Some people have the idea that athletes are registered there without a complete high school education, or without any high school education." 
He had heard also that athletes are given "rides" at Notre Dame in re­turn for participation in the form of athletics at which they were most proficient. 
Mr. Stradley was frank in admit­ting that he was searching for infor­mation of this nature and that he would leave no stone unturned in fer­reting out this information. 
It must have been somewhat of a surprise to him when the priests at Notre Dame threw their offices and records wide open to him and wel­comed the investigation. 
He went into the registrar's office to find that every athlete—or other student—at Notre Dame has fulfilled the requirements for entrance ap­proved by the N. C. A. C. In the director of studies' office, he took the four-year scholastic averages of the 12 graduating football men. Then he went through the files and picked 12 students at random from the classes of the past four years. The scholas­tic averages of the athletes was three-tenths of one percent higher than that of the 12 students picked at random. He discovered that Mike Leding of South Bend, monogram winning tack­le with the 1932 team, is valedictorian of the 1933 class -with an average of 
96.5 for four years in the college of engineering. He found the names of many prominent high school athletes 
By Joseph Petritz. '32 

who were refused admission because of a lack of high school credits. 
He went to the office of the secre­tary and found that the financial ac­counts of the athletes were in good order. 
He found that while athletes are being helped through school by being permitted to work, they are not being singled out for the 400 jobs given to students every year. He went into the dining halls, where most of the jobs are held, and declared that the men working there were earning every cent they were getting. 
His report before the association at its Chicago meeting covered nine pages. It contained nothing but fa­vorable comment. 
"I only wish I could make as good a report for every school I have ex­amined," Mr. Stradley said. "I went to Notre Dame looking for something and found nothing. The school has as clean an athletic department as any in the association." 
He suggested that the report be published, but since that is against the policy of the N. C. A. C, it was not printed. The remarks printed here were made to the Rev. M. A. Mul­caire, C.S.C, vice-president of the University and chairman of the ath­letic board of control. Many of them were contained in the clean bill of health given Notre Dame in the official report of Mr. Stradley's re­port. 
CAiMPUS ON CENTRAL STANDARD TIME 
BASEBALL 

Now there are rumors that the big leagues are putting several pros­pective baseball stars through Notre Dame. The stories started with the ruling that the majors cannot obtain sandlot players directly, but must buy them from a minor league or get them from the colleges and universities. The story is that the major league man­agers pick out a good high school player, put him into college, and then take him out after a year or two. This is probably true. 
S-o-o-o-o-o-o. Everj' time a player makes a circus catch or gets a tit, someone says "Connie Mack's paying his way," or "The Giants own him," or "He's going to Baltimore in June." 
Your correspondent rises to assure you that nothing done on the part of the Irish baseball team this spring warrants the rumors. The team has won one game, tied one and lost, at this writing, four. Maybe the Boston 
Americans own the whole team. We 
could believe that. 
Coach George Keogan, however, has a potentially strong team. There are known hitters out there who will start hitting soon. There are good pitchers who haven't got started yet. The infield is mainly composed of sophomores. They will settle down before the season is over and support the good pitchers. Then Notre Dame will start winning ball games. 
COME BACK FOR CO>raENCEMENT 

TRACK The track team almost pulled the une.xpected recently when it lost by only three points to Michigan State, 67 to 64, after leading throughout the meet. Failure of the field event men to come through cost Notre Dame the meet. The four-mile relay team-took second at the Drake relays —and returned the trophies won last year by the one-mile and two-mile teams. Army is next on the program. Pittsburgh will be here May 20. Notre Dame will watch Indiana win the state meet May 27 (and for the next two or three years, for that matter). The Irish will probably watch some­one else win the Central Intercollegi­ate conference meet at Milwaukee June 2. Coach John Nicholson is hop­ing for a couple of points in the 
N.C.A.A. meet at Chicago June 10. 
GOLF 

Nothing seems to be able to stop the Notre Dame tradition for good golf teams, now in its fourth year. Led by Captain Johnny Montedonico of Memphis, the team has won four matches this year, all by comfortable margins. Loyola fell, 15% to 2%, Purdue, which beat Notre Dame last year, succumbed, 15 to 3, on their home course. Michigan State lost, 17 to 1. Northwestern, the most recent victim, managed to score 6V4 points to 11%. Illinois, the next foe, recent­ly tied Northwestern, so you know what to expect there. Chicago comes here May 20, and then Notre Dame goes to i'erre Haute to win the state meet. If entered in the national col­legiate tournament, we predict that Notre Dame will take no worse than third behind such well-coached teams as Yale, Har\-ard, Princeton, or Mich­igan. 
Johnny Banks, Western Junior champ; Vincent Fehlig, consistently the low man in early matches; Billy Cole, and Bill Veeneman have left little to be desired in competition this year. It takes 75 or better to stay on the team, to give, you a rough idea. 
May, 19.} J THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 




§owne COOK'S 
current offerings 
PRE-EMINENT VALUES 

rami cruise to Southern £nrop€^ ^ifledlterrauean^ 
jRff^^l/f Luxurious cruising through July and August in the great 33,000 ton ROMA of the ItaHan Line . . . 14,090 miles .. . to ports that reach from Madeira east­ward to Odessa and Yalta on the Russian coast of the Black Sea . . . from Cannes, Venice and the Dalmatian Coast southward to Port Said. Sails from New York July 1, returns August 22. Rates without shore excursions are only S300 up. Tourist Class, S550 up. First Class. S5.70 up i»er day . . . 2-1/lOc per mile! Comprehensive illustrated folder on request. 

Universiiy J\ication Tours 
to Europe Tours personally conducted by eminent educational leaders thoroughly versed in the customs, history, art and literature of the countries visited. Sailings Tourist Class in famous express liners and iihra-modern cabin ships. Alany unusually attractive itineraries, short and long. Rates extremely reasonable. Send for your copy of'^University Vacation Tours" and get tbe complete details. 

Popuiar Tours to Europe 
Unsurpassed for value . . . tours expertly conducted by members of our own staff. .. great variety of fascinating itineraries to choose from. Many include travel by private motor. All are admirable in their choice of hotels and transportation, in their selection of routes for your enjoyment. Ask for the booklet "Popular Tours to Europe." 
For anything in Travel make it a point to consult us . . . there is no obligation* 

COOKS 
THOS. COOK & SON WAGONS-LITSINC. 
587 Fifth Avenue, New York Philadelphia Boston Baltimore Washington Oiicafto St. LoutH San Francisco Loa Angeles Toronto Montreal Vancouver Mexico Gt j 
AGENTS FOR AIL STEAMSHIP LINES 
TENNIS 

The tennis team with one victory and one defeat on its record is hold­ing its breath. The boys beat Val­paraiso, 9 to 1, and lost to Michigan State's consistently fine team, 8 to 1. Matches in the near future with Northwestern, Illinois, Michigan State, Michigan Normal, and Chicago will give the team all—and probably more —than it can handle. There are no indoor facilities and only four out­door courts here, so the boys do pretty well considering everything. 
FENCING 

Fencing has found an angel here in the form of Prof. Pedro de Lan­dero, who has a squad of 50 men working out twice a week. He antici­pates for ne.xt fall a squad of 100 men, a varsity team, intercollegiate matches, official recognition, and pos­sibly some championships. 
ETC. 

Ping-Fong has also found an anon­ymous sponsor in the person of the gent who thought of having a school tournament in the Carroll "rec" room. Ho hum. 
Late Baseball Bulletin 

Notre Dame took two games from Iowa by respective scores of 8 to 5 and 2 to 0 as we galloped to press, and Coach George Keogan has decided not to raffle off the team to those who held chances, viz., the department of physical education, Moreau semi­nary, the interhall league, the Boston Red Sox, the boys, the downtown coaches, St. Mary's college, and the Indians. Jim Leonard, of football fame, and Johnny Sagartz of Chica­go did the pitching behind good hit­ting and admirable support. 
COME BACK FOR COMMEN'CEMENT 





THE ALUMNI 
PERSONALS 

The Class Notes in this issue are confined to Reunion Matters. 
Prof. Robert M. Anderson, 'S3, and 'So 
Michael 0. Bums, '86 
Warren A. Cartier, '87 
John L. Heineman, '88 
Robert Proctor, '04 
Daniel J. O'Connor, '05 Thomas A. Lally, '06 
T. Paul McGannon, '07 Frank X. Cull, '08 Paul Castner, '23 James F. Hayes, '24 John W. Scallan, '25 Dr. Jerrj- Hayes, '26 Louis Buckley, '28 
Hall of fame? In some respects, yes, for all of them. As Class Secre­taries they've been good, and as indi­vidual alumni of Notre Dame they've been even better. Most of them are pretty regular in attending Com­mencement. 
But, this year they're all Secre­taries of Reunion Classes. Not only are they expected in person, but they're expected to bring their Classes with them. Buckley and his peppy 5­year crowd of '28 are coming back strong, in every activity. But not much has been heard from the other Classes. 
1883 

For the first time in a number of years, the 50-Year Class has an op­portunity to really take part in the Commencement program. Prof. An­derson is an able leader and an able alumnus. The general hope is that distance will not prevent the brothers Arnold of Washington, D. C ; Dr. Al­bert Zahm, of the same place, who ought to be back for the Laetare Med­al Reunion Jubilee anyway; Gen. Jo­seph P. O'Neill, of Portland; Msgr. Burke of Peoria; William J. McCar­thy of Cincinnati, and others, from being here for their own Golden Ju­bilee. The achievements of the Class are reflected in the able and versa­tile men listed above. 
CAMPUS ON CENTRAL STANDARD TIME 
1885-'86-'87-'88 This Dix group contains some of the names of men who are so identi­fied with the progress of the Associa­tion that they are certain to form a nucleus for the less frequent visitors of these Classes — Warren Cartier, Very Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C, John L. Heineman, P. E. Burke, Pat­rick J. Nelson, Matthew M. White, C. 
J. Stubbs, (just Knighted by Pius XI you remember), all familiar in pres­ent as well as past Notre Dame his­tory. 
1904-'05-'06-'07-'08 

The Silver Jubilee Class of 1908 is listed here with the Dix Group just preceding it because it was undoubt­edly the great promise in these Classes that resulted in the formation of the new Alumni Association in 1908, the 25th anniversary of which so happily coincides with the Silver Jubilee of '08. In these Classes are the men who have formed the nucleus of all the activities of the Association 
from that auspicious occasion until the present era—^Byron Kanaley, Rev. Thomas Irvins, C.S.C, G. A. Fara­baugh, Harry Hogan, Bob Proctor, Walter Daly, Rev. Maurice Griffin, Grattan Stanford, Dan O'Connor, Fa­ther Mike Shea, Billy Jamieson, John Worden, the large Class from the Or­der in 1906 including the present President of the University, Arthur Funk, Terence Cosgrove, E. M. Mor­ris, Frank A. McCarthy, John Gush­ing, John Shea, Jim Dubbs, Pat Mal­loy, Paul McGannon, the Superior General Father James W. Donahue, Father Bolger, Ambrose O'Connell, and a host of others, mention of any of whom guarantees a merit list without end. The Silver Jubilee Class has a wealth of alumni leadership represented in its roster — Frank Cull, Leroy Keach, Max St. George, George Sprenger, Vamum Parish, Father Joseph Boyle, C.S.C, John Roach, Robert Bracken, John Bertel­ing. Prof. Caparo, and numerous others not as close to the campus in recent years. 
The Alunmi Office is going to be very surprised if this crowd doesn't get behind Frank Cull, Silver Jubilee Secretary, '08 at least, and have some sort of a function to reunite this ar­ray of prominent figures in the Uni­versity's life — past, present, and, judging from the hale and hearty 'S3, to come. 
1923-'24-'2.5-'26 

Getting into '23-4-5-6, where the Editor knows the make-up of the Classes, it's just a question of having room enough. There hasn't been a Commencement since '23 that wasn't well represented by this succession of alumni. These Classes caught the spirit of Notre Dame expansion and they come back in a big way to a big spot in their memories. 
CAMPUS ON CENTRAL STANDARD TIME 
1928 

Louis Buckley, Secretary of '2S, speaks for the Class: 
This is the last call for the men of '28 to be back for the o-Year Reunion. The following program has been ar­ranged. 
1.
 Come to Dillon Hall, (ne.\t to the Dining Halls) where you will be as­signed a room with the '28 gang. There will be some great "sessions" here Friday and Saturday nights. 

2.
 A buifet lunch, with everjrthing that goes with a gathering of '28 men, will be held at the Coquillard Country Club (on Eastern edge of South Bend) from S:00 to ? Friday evening. We will leave from Dillon Hall about 7:45. 

3.
 Saturday morning the deceased members of the Class will be com­memorated in a Mass at 8 o'clock in Sacred Heart Church. 


4. Members of the Class are urged to bring their golf clubs and to enter the -Alumni Tournament on Friday and Saturday. No charge for the use of the course. Tournament or not. 

5. There will be special tables for '28 at the Alumni Banquet on Satur­day night in the East Hall of the University Dining Halls. 
Letters have been sent to all mem­bers of the Class of '28, to men in our Class who did not graduate with us, and to the law men of '29 who started ^vith us in '24, whose addresses we have correctly. If you haven't re­turned your card as yet, please do so at once so we can make definite plans. If you cannot come, return the card anyway so we can read your message to the gang at the meeting Friday night. The local committee and the Alumni Office have expended a great deal of time and effort to make this a success, so please return the card at once. Cards have been received to date, only a week after the letter went out, from the following men tell­ing us they will be present: 
A. Denchfield, Montevideo, Uruguay Frank Creadon, Riverside, 111. Dave Smith, Chicago. 
E. R. Quinn, Wamsutter, Wyo. Bob Hamilton, New York City. 
W. V. Lawler, Pittsburgh. Bob ICirby, Indianapolis. Mike Ricks, Lafayette, Ind. Howie Phalin, Chicago. Joe Langton, Peoria, 111. Roswell Leahy, Tiffin, Ohio. Ray Mulligan, Chicago. Geo. G. O'Brien, New York City Larry Wingerter, Indianapolis. Arthur Stenius, Detroit. Alfred Schnurr, Sandusky, Ohio. Jim White, Chicago. Paul Brust, Milwaukee. Joe Morrissey, Cincinnati. Tom Lavelle, Anderson, Ind. Vince Carney, Rochelle, 111. Tom Mahon, Duluth, Minn. Dave Gibson, Benton Harbor, Mich. John McMahon, Pittsburgh. Bill Konop, Indianapolis. Tom McDougall, Antigo, Wis. George Flick, Fort Wayne, Ind. Leo Mclntyre, Bethlehem, Pa. Bill Conboy, South Bend, Ind. Jack Mullen, Chicago. John Robinson, Waterbury, Conn. John Igoe, Lorain, Ohio. Bob Mohlman, Lafayette, Ind. Ivan LeBlanc, Alpena, Jlich. Tom Happer, Elkhart, Ind. Matt Cullen, Chicago. Anthony de Dario, Elkhart, Ind. 
H. P. Fontana, Columbus, Ohio. 
M. B. Conley, Fulton, N. Y. Ray Lawler, Chicago. Rev. Norman Johnson, C.S.C, N.D. Rev. Charles Hamel, C.S.C, N. D. . Frank Donovan, South Bend. Bill Armin, South Bend. Andy Boyle, Notre Dame. John Mahoney, South Bend. George Scheuer, South Bend. Willard Wagner, South Bend. Roy Worden, South Bend. John L. Worden. Jr., St. Paul. Bob Grant, South Bend. Louis Buckley, South Bend. 





PACK UP 

AND GO! 
•.?NC*^"''^°"^™°"'^f^.... 
4^<^•" 
IN YOUP. OLO <^'^ 

EUROPE AND 

BACK FOR 184 

(Tourist class on many of the finest ships . . . How do they do it!) 
Whea again will you be able to buy so many happy memories for so little? 
Steamship rates ate absurdly low. living costs in Europe are way, way down. We've written a little book about it. We'd be happy to send it to you free. 
It shows you how you can go... in dollars and cents costs. Pot instance... a good seat for the finest opera, about $1.50 . . . admission to the Casino at Monte Carlo, about 40c .. . a cabine at many smart beaches, about 25c a day. 
Can you go? Don't say no until you've read this book. That's where your trip starts, 
This message sponsored by Transatlaniic ^ Steamship LinestAnchor Line, Canadian Pacific Steamships. Cosulich Line. Cunard Line. French Line, Hamburs-American Line. Holland America Line. Italian tine. North German Lloyd. Red Stai line. United Sates Lines, White Stai Line. 
TBANSATLANTIC STEAMSHIP LINES. 80 Broad Street, New Yoifc. N. Y. Gendemeo:—^Will you please send me. without obligation, your &ce booklet "This Year of All Years." 
NAME 
ADDRESS • 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 225 
The Painless Operation 
t..High up under the dome of Boston's Massacbu­setti General Hospital, far removed from the -wards to that the ^screams of sufferers under the knife will not horrify the ward patients, is the KospitaVa famed operating amphitheatre. Many a medical student dreads the operations he is privileged to watch, fre­quently faints. But one day last week Dr. John C. Warren, Boston surgeon, led a group of surgeons and students (class of 1847) up the long stairs, eager, hurrying. 
For there beckoned an interesting experiment— 
•urgery without pain. Dr. William Thomas Green Uorton, 27-year old Boston dentist, thought it pos­sible, bad experimented to that end with ether, a volatile, pungent chemical compound capable of pro­ducing insensibility. He had tried it on animals, on himself, then on his patients while extracting the roots of decayed teeth. Finally be had obtained per­mission from Dr. Warren to let him test his drug before an audience. One Gilbert Abbott, with a tumor on his neck, was to be the iirst trial. 
At 11 ajn. the last privileged student hurried into the amphitheatre. Experiroentee Abbott, fidgeting on the operating-table, looked anxiously at the clock. Casual talk ceased, sudden silence prevailed as the minute-hand crawled past the hour, and Dr. Morton did not appear. "He and his anesthetic I Humbugs both, no doubtr* mumbled a doctor. It became five minutes past eleven, ten, then a quarter after. The. patient stirred uneasily. Dr. Warren selected an in­strument, advanced to the table—useless to delay pro­ceedings any longer. As bis knife poised for the in­cision. Dr. Morton, breathless, apologetic, rushed in. He held in one hand a curious globe-and-tube apparatus. 
In eager concentration, tensely expectant, the wait­ing group of surgeons and students watched while the newcomer—a charlatan perhaps, a genius possibly— adjusted his peculiar inhaling apparatus to the pa­tient's mouth and with tense composure administered 
Cultivated Americans, impatient with turn increasingly to publications edited tions, fair-dealing, vigorously impartial, in the sense that they report what they 
his anesthetic. Veiled skepticism revealed itself whea the patient reacted suddenly in wild exhilaratioiv bat this exuberance subsided, relaxation took its places then unconsciousness. Skepticism was routed, anuz»> ment paramount. Said Dentist Morton to Surgcoa Warren: "Your patient is ready." 
Dr. Warren began to operate, proceeded quickly. In five minutes had finished. From the patient came no cry of pain, no agony of distress, only slight move­ments, mumbled words as from one who stirs oa tha borderland of sleep.... 
"This, gentlemen," exclaimed Surgeon Warren, "is no humbug." Awake, Gilbert Abbott said. "I felt no pain." So. in part, had TIME been published in October, 1846, would TIME have reported the first public demonstration of ether as a sur­gical anesthetic. So, too, would TIME have reported how one Dr. Crawford Williamson Long, of Georgia, came forward later saying that he had used ether four years previous, had given it up as impractical So, too, would "TIME have reported the bitter persecution that came to Dentist Morton when- he patented his discovery as "Letheoh"; the seizure of "Leth-eon" by the U. S. Government for its own uses; the claims of Dr. Charles T. Jackson, the Bos­ton chemist from whom Dentist Morton had obtained his ether; the division of the Paris Academy of Medicine's 5,000 franc Monthyon Prize for 1852 between these two, with Morton proudly refusing his share; the long Congres­sional investigations resulting in nothing, and Dentist Morton's death in poverty in 1865. 
 cheap sensationalism and windy bias,  in the historical spirit. These publica­ devote themselves to the .public weal  see, serve no masters, fear no groups. 





TIME 
The Weekly Newsmagazine 
YEARLY SUBSCRIPnON »3 : 203 EAST 42nd STREET, NET YORK CITY : 15 CENTS AT ALL NEWSSTANDS 
LOCAL ALUMNI CLUBS 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKRON—Glen Smith. '27. 832 Elmore Ave.. Akron. President: C. G. McGncliin. "28. Medina Hoad, Akron. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARIZONA— Jame9 D. Barry. "97, 82 W. Pcnnincton St., Tucson. President: Steve Rebeil, '25, 620 N. Sixth St.. Tucson, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARKANSAS— Rev. Geo. F. X. Strassner. "14. Hope. President: Burt L. Roberts, 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BENGAL—Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C., '02, Dac­ca, President: Rev. J. J. Henessey, C,S.C., Dacca. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON— Joseph C. Sullivan. President: Rcbert J. Heam. 43 Chcsti-r Road. Belmont. Mass.. Eecretar>'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BRIDGEPORT —John M. Murphy. "27. 86 Liberty St., Bridgeport, Conn, (temporary chairman). 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BUFFALO— Paul D. Hoeffler. '25. 280 Woodward Ave., Buffalo. President: Edmund J. Luti, Jr., '24, 91 Beard Ave., Buffalo, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CALU­MET DISTRICT—William L. Voss, Jr., '23, 55521 Vine Ave., Harvey. Illinois, President; William R. Dooley, '26, 211— 157th St, Calumet City, Illinois, Secre­tary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CAPI­TAL DISTRICT—Thomas Dollard. -21. 200 9th St.. Troy. New York. President: John Vincent Smith. '29. 252 First St.. Albany. Ne%v York. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHia\GO— Austin McNichols. '17. c o. W. A. Alex­ander & Co., 134 S. LaSalle St.. Presi­dent ; William P. Kearney. '28. 507 County Bids.. Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF dNCINNATI —Robert Hughes. '29. 3565 Burch Ave.. Prcmdent: W. D. Morrissey. '26. Cath­olic Charities Bureau, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND —^Thomas F. Byrne. '28. 750 Huron Rd.. President; Clayton G. Leroux, 3356 Daleford Road, Heights Branch, Qeve­land, Secretaray. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CON­NECTICUT VALLEY—William J. Gran-field, '13, State Bids., 1200 Main Street, Springfield, Mass., President: James A. Curry. '14, 647 Main St, Hartford, Conn., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DALLAS. TEXAS—James P. Swift. "24. 422 In­terurban Bids.. Dallas. President. Fran­cis A. MsCuUoush. '30. 917 First Nat­ional Bank Bids- Dallas, St'cretar>'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON— Robert Ohmer, '08, 512 Mutual Home BIdg., Dayton, President: Andrew A. Aman, Jr., *30, 210 Lexington Ave.. Dayton, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER— David Hickey. '28. 1515 Grant St.. Pres­ident: O. L. Housh. '27, 1575 Race St, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DES MOINES —Earl Walsh. "22. Des Moines Catholic College, President; Charles H. Lynch, 
•28, 1429 - 13th St, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLL'B OF DETROIT— John T. Hissins. '24. 1632 Buhl Bids.. President: Paul J. Dooley. '25. 6202 Hamilton Ave.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—Dr. J. A. Flynn. El. "12, 161J R. L Ave.. N. W.. Washington, President; James D. Hayes, 6116 Eighth St, N. W., Washington, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ERIE, PA.— Richard D. Daley, '17, Erie Daily Times, President; Thomas Barber, '24, 416 Newman St, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FORT WAYNE —Frank J. Gilmartin. '01. 336 W. Wool-and Ave.. President: Robert Eggeman, '30, Old First Bank Bids., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GREEN BAY —Harold L. Londo. *24. City Engineers* Office, City Hall. Green Bay. Wis.. Presi­dent ; Levi A. Genicsse. '24. 510 Minahan Bldg.. Green Bay, Wis., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GRAND RAP­IDS. MICH.—George E. Lndwig. '25. 328 Glenhaven Ave., N. W.. President: Ray­mond J. Bonini. *27, 2460 Oakwood Dr., 
S. E., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HAMILTON. OHIO—M. O. Bums. '86. 338 S. Second St, President; Mare A. Fiehrer, '27, 701 Rentachler Bldg., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HIAWATHA­LAND—^Norman Bartholomew. '15. 225 Oeveland Ave.. Iron Mountain. Mich., President; Michael S. Corry, '27, 837 Terrace Ave.. Marinette. Wis., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HOUSTON— 
M. E. Walter, '14, 1702 Stuart Ave.. Houston. Texas. President: T. F. Green, Jr., '27, Conroe, Texas, Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIANAP­OLIS—Robert Kirby. '29. 1901 N. Merid­ian. Indianapolis. President: John T. Rocap. '30. Fidelity Trust Bldg., In­dianapolis, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF JOLIET— Charles Lonnon. '30. 605 Herkimer St . President; Thomas Feeley. '32, 316 Buell Ave., Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS CITY —Daniel F. Foley, '23, 25 Wint Ave. F t Leavenworth. Kansas. President: John 
M. Dusan. '27, 4427 Tracy St, Kansas City, Mo., Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS—Al­bert J. Gebert, '30, U. of Kansas, Wich­ita, President: Dan Welchons, '30, 306 
E. 13th St. Hutchinson, Kansas. Scc'y. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KENTUCKY— 
H. R. Dempf. '23. 400 M. K Taylor Bids.. Louisville. President: Wm. A. Reisert, '30, c/o Reisert Ins. Agency, 352 Starks Bldg., Louisville, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANE COUNTY —^William B. Chawso. '31. Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co.. 303 Graham Bids., Aurora, III., Secretary pro tem. 
NOTRE D.AME CLUB OF LAPORTE, INDIANA—A. Gordon Taylor. '18, 1507 Indiana Ave.. Laporte. President: Nor­man Duke. '33. 304 Niles St, Laporte, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP LOS AN­GELES—A. A. Scott. '22. Box 240 Ar­cade Annex. President: Edward P. Cunninshara. '30, 1031 S. Grand Ave.. Secretarj'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOOTSIANA­MISSISSIPPI—P. E. Burke. '88. 307 Camp St. New Orleans. President; Cyp­rian A. Sporl, Jr., '28, Whitney-Centnl • Bldg., New Orleans, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MANILA—Al­fonso Zobel, '24, c/o Ayala & Cia, 21 Calle Juan Luna, Manila, President 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MEMPHIS— Hugh Magevney, Jr., 1878 Union Ave., President 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE 
—William J. Redden, '14. 3525 W. North Ave.. Jfilwaukeo. President; Paul Brust '28. 135 W. Wells St. MUwaukec, Secre­tary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MONTANA— Hon. Albert J. Galen. '96, 435 Clark St, Helena, President; James B. O'Flynn. '11, Great Falls, Mont, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NASHVILLE —Robert P. Williams, Jr.. '29. 106 Gal­latin Rd., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEBRASKA— Gerald J. Barret '22. 315 S. 37th St. Omaha. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW JERSEY —Russell Riley. '28. National Newark & Essex Bids.. Newarak. N. J., President; Joseph Nulty, '27, 945 Madison Ave.. Elizabeth, N. J., Secretaray. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE QTY OF NEW YORK—John E. Kcnney. '21. care Foster Wheeler Corp.. 165 Broadway. New York City, President: J. Norbert Gelson. '26. 1201 Troy Ave., Brooklyn. 
N. Y.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTHERN CALIFORNIA — Royal H. Bosshard. *17. 315 Montsomerj* St., San Francisco. President: Robert B, Hill. '23. 5033 Proctor Ave.. Oakland. Secretary-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OREGON—Gen­eral J. P. CNeil. '83. Army Recruiting Station. Second and Washington Sts., Portland, President: L. Bernard Macna2), 
•25. Terminal Sales Bldg., Portland, Scc'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO—Raymond J. Eichenlanb, '15, Hoster Realty Bldg., Columbus, Presi­dent 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OKLAHOMA— Thomas F. Shea, o. s.. '08, 902 Ex­change Natl. Bank. Tulsa, President: Leo A. Schumacher, '13, King Wood Oil Co., Okmulgee, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAUE CLUB OF PARIS—Hold­ers of Permanent Seats: Louis P. Harl. 
•16, Paris Office, N. Y. Herald. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADEL­PHIA—Robert Reagan, '24, 502 Cecil St, Canonsburg, Pa., President: Harry H. Francis, Jr.. '30, 15 Spring Ave., Ard­more. Pa., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PEORIA. ILL. -Albert F. Gury. '28. 704 W. Wilcox Ave.. President: Joseph Lanston. '28. 207 Hillyer Place. Secretao". 
NOTRE OAME CLUB OF ROCHESTER —Thomas Ashe. '31. 226 Glen Ellyn Way, Rochester, President; Raymond D. Downs. '26. 46 Qinton Ave., S.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Raymond C. Marelli. '27. 1418 Eighth St.. Rockford. III.. Presi­dent; Francis W. Howland. '25. 902 N. Main St.. Rockford. HI.. Secrctarj-. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLU B OF RHODE ISLAND—Charles A. Grimes. '20, Para­mount Bldg.. Providence. President: Cy­ril A. Costello, '29, 44 Huxley Ave., Providence, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE ST. JO­SEPH VALLEY—Paul M. Butler. '27. 802 I.O.O.F. Bids.. South Bend. Indiana. President: Norman J. Hartzer. '29, 843 Forest Ave., South Bend. Indiana, Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ST. LOUIS— Leo Sutliffe, ^24, 2T01 So. Grand, Ftesl­dent: Robert Hellrung, '30, 7214 North-moor Drive, University City, Uo., Secy. 
(Continued on next page) 

Local Alumni Clubs 
List of Class Secretaries 
(Continued) 

Year A'ame 
Before 1880 Hon. Thos. F. Gallagher Fitchburg. Mass. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SIOUX CITY— Vincent F. Harringlion, '25, Continental 
1880-85 Prof. Robert M. Anderson CIrcIeville. Ohio Mortgage Co., President. 1886 Michael O. Bums 338 S. Second St.. Hamilton. Ohio 1887 Hon. Warren A. Cartier Ludington. Michigan NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SyR.\CUSE 1888 John L. Heineman Conneraville. Indiana AND CENTRAL. NEW YORIv—Vincent 
1889 P. E. Burke 
Brown. •2a. 1418 James St.. Syracuse. 301 Camp St.. New Orleans. La. President: Vincent Goulet. '26. 125 1890-93 Louis p. Chute 7 University Ave., Minneapolis, Minnesota Green St.. Syr.icuse. Secretary. 
1894 Hugh A. O'Donnell The New York Times, New York City 1895 Eustace Cullinan. Sr. 860 Phelan Bldg.. San Francisco. Calif. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SOUTHWEST­
ERN TEXAS—Harold Tynan. '27. 240 1896 William P. Bums 327 Willard Ave.. Michigan City, Indiana 
E. Huisaclte Ave., San Antonio, Texas. 1897 Rev. John A. MacNamaraSt. Joseph's Sanitarium, Mount Clemens, Michigan 
President: ICirwin J. WHliams. '28, 105 
1898 Wra. C. Kei?ler 9th and Sycamore Sts.. Cincinnati. Ohio. 1899 Dr. Joseph F. Dunne 418 Jefferson Bidif., Peoria. Illinois NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TIFFIN. OHIO 1900 John W. Eggeman 1201 First National Bank Bldg., Fort Wayne, Ind. —C. J. Schmidt, '11, 260 Melmore St.. 1901 Joseph J. Sullivan 1300. 139 N. aark St, Chicago, Illinois 
E. Rosewood, San Antonio, Secretary. 
President: Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 1902 C. C. Mitchell 110 S. Dearborn St.. Box 3. Chicago, HI. 
Sycamore St., Secretary. 
1903 Francis P. Burke 904 Trust Company Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TOLEDO—Mr. 1904 Robert Proctor Monger Bldg., Elkhart, Indiana John Q. Carey. '27. 2514 Chase St., 1905 Daniel J. O'Connor 
10 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, lUinois 
Toledo, President: Fred A. Sprenger, 3129 Kimball Ave., Toledo, Secretary. 
1906 Thomas A. Lally 811-13 Paulsen Bldg.. Spokane, Washington 1907 T. Paul McGannon Bar Bldg.. 36 W. 44th St. New York City NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE TRI-1908 Frank X. Cull Buckley Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio CITIES—Richard B. SwUt. '20, Kohl 1909 E. P. Cleary F. 0. Bo.t 366, Momence, Illlnais BIdg.. Davenport, la.. President: Henry 
1910 Rev. M. L. Moriarty 627 Beall Ave., Wooster, Ohio 
M. McCullough, '20, 26 McCullough BIdg., 
Davenport, la., Secretarr. 1911 Fred L. Steers 1635 First National Bank Bldg., Chicago, Illinois 1912 B. J. Kaiser 324 Fourth St, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRIPLE 1913 James R. Devitt 921 Engineers Bldg.; Oeveland. Ohio 
CITIES—Joseph Carey. '32. 20 Roose­
Frank H. Hayes 

1914 1055 Granville Ave., Chicago, Illinois 
velt Ave.. Endicott. New York, Presi­dent: Joseph Hennessy. '30. 11^5 Bur-1915 1033 S. Unden Are., Highland Park. 111. 
James E. Sanford 

Timothy P. Galvin retary. Edward J. McOsker 
bank Ave.. Johnson City, N.Y., Sec­1916 708 First Trust Bldg., Hammond, Indiana 
1917 104 S. Union St.. Elgin, Illinois John A. Lemmer 
1918 1110 - 8th Ave.. S., Escanaba, Michigan John J. Doyle. '28, 414 2nd Ave., S., 1919 650 Pierce St, Gary, Indiana 
TWIN CITIES NOTRE DAME CLUB— 
Garence Bader 

Minneapolis, Minn., President: Robert Leo B. Ward Fogerty. '28. ColleKe of St. Thomas, St. 
1920 1012 Black Bldg., Los Angeles, California 
Alden J. Cusick 

1921 1 Park Ave.. New York City 1922 226 Glen Ellyn Way, Rochester. New York Paul, Minn., Secretary. 
Gerald Ashe Paul Castner 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTAH—Ray-1923 313 Napoleon Blvd.. South Bend, Indiana n>ond R. Brady, "24, 206 Reams Bldg., James F. Hayes 
1924 Fifth Avenue Ass'n. Empire State Bldg., N. Y. City Salt Lake City, President: Cyril Har-
John W. Scallan 

1925 Pullman Co.. 79 E. Adams St, Chicago, HI. 1926 38 N. 12th St, Newark, New Jersey becke, '19, 64 F. St., Salt Lake City. Sec Dr. Gerald W. Hayes 
Edmund DeQercq VALLEY—Noble Kizer, '25, Purdue Uni­Louis Buckley 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE WABASH 1927 8126 Drexel Blvd., Chicago. Illinois 
1928 718 E. Corby St, South Bend. Indiana versity, Lafayette, Ind., President: Peter 
Joseph McNaraara 

1929 231 Wisconsin St, Indianapolis, Indiana Vogt. Secretary-Treasurer. 
Bernard W. Conroy 

1930 1055 Park Ave., New York City 
John E. Boland 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF EASTERN 1931 3624 Chestnut St.. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania PENNSYLVANIA — Leo R. Mclntyre, Herbert Giorgio 
1932 9005 18ath St, Hollis, L. L, New York 
•28, Bethlehem, Pa., Temporary Chair­man: Charles B. McDerraott, '27, Allen­town, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AVESTERN PENNSYLVANIA—John C. Sheedy. '28, 5540 Bryant St., Pittsburgh. President: John B. Reardon, '22, 715 Union Bank 
Bldg., Pittsburgh, Secretary. District Governors 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN 
Dietrict Name Address
WASHINGTON—Dr. Clarence Shannon, oj . '02: Stimaon Bldg., Seattle, Wash., I Frank E. Hering Dean Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 
President: E. Morris Starrett. '14-'21, 
n John W. Costello S7 E. 21st St. Chicago, HI. 
El. '23, 801 Washinstun St., Port Town­
send, Wash., Secretary. III John P. Murphy Terminal Tower, Cleveland, Ohio. IV WUliam J. Redden 3525 West North Ave., Milwaukee, Wis. NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WATEBBURY V Don P. O'Keefe Chev. Motor Co., General Motors Bldg., Detroit, Mich. 
—George A. Gaflney. •98-'99, 64 Park 
VI John H. Neeson City Hall Annex. Philadelphia. Pa. 
PI.. Waterbury, Conn.. President: James 
M. Monaghan. '27. 44 Ayer St., Water-VII Ambrose O'Connell 1600 Broadway. New York City. 
bury, Conn., Secretary. Vi n Gerald A. Ashe 226 Glen Ellyn Way. Rochester, New York IX Hon. Wm. J. Granfield 1200 Main St, Springfield, Mass. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ^VHEELING. 
X Hilton Goodwyn 2110 East Grace St, Richmond, Va. 
W. VA.—Thomas F. Howley. "11. Citi­zens-Peoples Trust Co.. Wheeling. Presi­XI Harry Mehre University of Georgia. Athens. Ga. dent: t3eorge Sargus, '28, 2111 Belmont, XII W. N. Bosler 1001 Heybum Bldg., Louisville. Ky. Bellaire, Ohio, Secretary. 
Xn l Twomey Clifford Camden. Arkansas XIV Arthur T. Simpson 208 Southwestern Life Bldg.. Delias. Texas. 
THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE 
DAME—Sister M. Agnes Alma. O. P., XV John L. Corley 4463 Lindell. S t Louis, Missouri. Mt. St. Mary-on-the-Hudson. Newburgh. XVI Walter Duncan 658 First St, La Salle, HL New York, President: Miss Rose Stef-
XVII Hon. Albert J. Galen 435 Clark St, Helena, Mont 
faniak. 161 Walnut St., Coldwnter, Mich., 
Secretary. XVIII Raymond M. Humphreys 1423 Race St. Denver, Colo. , XIX Terence B. Cosgpove Los Angeles Athletic Club. Los Angeles, Calif. NOTRE DAME CLUB OF YOUNGS-XX Dr. J. M. Toner No. 1 Terrace Drive, San Franoisoo, Calif. 
TOWN—John J. Kane. Jr.. '25. 1018 XXI Emmett Lenihan County-City Bldg.. Seattle. Wash. 
First National Bank. President: Norman Smith, '24, 126 Roslyn Dr.. Secretary. XXII C. C. Fitzgerald La Metropolitana, 242. Havana. Cuba. 
ome tk in^ to 

m?f ms/^ si 
some/i7^i^ 
A friend of CHESTERFIELD writes us of a salesman who had "something to say": 
" I dropped into a little to­bacco shop, and when I asked for a pack of Chesterfields the man smiled and told me I was the seventh customer without a break to ask for Chesterfields. 'Smoker after smoker,' he said, 'tells me that Chesterfields click .. . I sell five times as many Chest­erfields as I did a while back.'" 

Yes, there's something to say about Chesterfields and it takes just six words to say it—"They're mild and yet they satisfy." 
© 1933. LiGOETT & MYERS TOBACCO Coi. 


