The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Volume 32, No. 3 
May-June 

I . 1954 
James E. Armstrong, '2 
Editor 
John N. Cacklcy, Jr., ' Managing Editor 


DAME 
ALUMNUS 
HAMMES GIFT WILL PROVIDE BUILDING 
A new building to house the Notre Dame Bookstore will be erected on the campus in die near future, it was an­nounced recently by the Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., university presi­dent. 
Construction of tlie building has been made possible by a gift from Mr, and Mrs. Romy Hammes of Kankakee, 111., Father Hesburgh said. As presi­dent of Romy Hammes Enterprises, Inc., Hammes operates auto dealer­ships in Kankakee and South Bend, Ind., and has established housing de­velopments in Kankakee and Joliet, 111., Fort Lee, N. J., and Las Vegas, Nev. 
"Notre Dame is deeply grateful to Mr. and Mrs. Hammes for this prac­tical gift which fills a genuine need on our campus," Father Hesburgh said. "The growth of the University in re­cent years has made the facilities of the present Bookstore inadequate. The handsome structure to be erected tlirough tlie generosity of Mr. and Mrs. Hanmies attests to their concern for the development of Notre Dame. 
• The University is privileged to number them among its most devoted friends." 
The new building, to be erected at a cost of appro.ximately $250,000, will be situated along tlie new quadrangle between Badin Hall and die Post Of­fice. It will be constructed of buff brick with a slate roof. Its architecture will harmonize with other campus structures. 
Both Mr. and Mrs. Hammes have long been interested in the University of Notre Dame and its development. Mr. Hammes is a member of the Col­lege of Commerce Advisory Council, and Mrs. Hammes is active in die work of the Women's Advisor)' Council of the University. 
Their support of the Church and Catholic education was recognized by Pope Pius XII in 1951 when Mr. Hammes received the Order of St. Gregory die Great, and Mrs. Hammes was honored widi die medal "Pro Ec­clesia et Pontifice." Each of die Hammes housing developments bear the name "Marycrest" in honor of the Virgin Mar)'. In each of them, Hammes has made provision for churches and Catholic schools. 
Mr. and Mrs. Hammes have given ALL OF THIS FOR ^20 

Class Reunion Weekend 
June li-12-13 
Class of  1904  Howard  Hall  Class of  1929  Lyons Hall  
Class of  1909  Howard  Hall  Class of  1934  Morrissey Hall  
Class of  1914  Howard  Hali  Class of  1939  Morrissey  Hall  
Class of  1919  Howard  Hall  Class of  1944  Walsh  Hall  
Class of  1924  Howard  Hall  Class of  1949  Sorin  Hall  

Friday, June i 
General Registration—^Law Building. One fee, $20, will be collected at registration n'hich will cover all of the general and class expenditures. 
Class Registration and Room—Registradon will be in the halls as listed 
above. Weekend golf tournament beginning Friday. Class events scheduled on Friday night. 
1904—Informal class supper, Morris Inn, Golfers Lounge. 1909—Class supper, Morris Inn, Golfers Lounge. 1914—Buffet supper, Morris Inn, Golfers Lounge. 1919—Buffet supper, Morris Inn, Golfers Lounge. 1924—Evening buffet, place to be announced. 1929—Twenty-five Year Silver Jubilee Reunion Dinner, Morris Inn. 1934—Dinner, Lay Faculty Dining Hall. 1939—Buffet, Rockne Memorial. 1944—Class dinner, Walsh Hall Basement. 1949—Reunion supper, Vetville Rec Hall. 

Saturday, June 12 
Class Masses, Class Pictures (Election of Class Officers for ensuing 5 
years can be held on Friday night, or on Saturday, as Class \vishes.) Golf Tournament, all day. President's Luncheon for the 25-year Class, Lay Faculty Dining Room, 
Dining Halb. Box lunches for all other reunion classes Saturday noon. Progress Forums in the five Colleges of Arts and Letters, Science, Engi­
neering, Law and Commerce, Saturday afternoon. Tours—I. A. O'Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building, Nieuivland 
Science Hall, Lafortune Student Center, Saturday afternoon. Movies, Washington Hall, Saturday afternoon. Annual Alumni Banquet—^University Dining Halls, Saturday night. 

Sunday, June 13 
Low Mass, Sacred Heart, with a Sermon for Notre Dame Men. 
substantial support for the construc­kakee, Mr. Hammes is a former presi­tion of churches and chapels in Nordi dent of that city's Chamber of Com­Carolina, Formosa, Africa and Japan. merce and is active in many civic and They have also assisted in the erection professional groups. He is also a mem­of an orphanage for thousands of home­ber of the advisor)' board to the Com­less children in postwar Italy. manding General of the Fifth Army on 
Recognized as a civic leader in Kan­business matters. 
Calumet District, Twin Cities and 
REPORTS FROM 95 CLUBS 
Grand Rapids clubs. Athletic Director Edward W. Krause was the principal speaker at Paterson, the Mid-Hudson 

ON UND NIGHT MEETINGS 
Valley, New York City, and Joliet 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated with 95 local clubs report­ing special programs. It was without any doubt the greatest single event that has previously been sponsored by alumni groups throughout the nation and abroad. Sixty-three clubs featured campus representatives on their pro­grams. 
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., was guest speaker along with Vice-President Richard NLxon at the Washington, D. C, Club's dinner af­fair of April 26. Father Hesburgh also was the principal guest in Philadelphia and in Detroit. The Rev. Edmimd P. Joyce, C.S.C., Executive Vice-Presi­dent, spoke to alumni groups in To­ledo, St. Louis and Indianapolis. The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Di­rector of the Notre Dame Foundation, was guest speaker at club observances in Cincinnati, Pittsburgh, Johnstown, Dallas and Houston. Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Vice-President in charge of Academic Affairs, was on the program of the Fort Wayne Alum­ni Club. The Rev. Louis J. Thornton, G.S.C., Director of Admissions, was featured as guest speaker in Louisville, Memphis and New Orleans. 
The Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C., assistant to Father Cavanaugh, talked to alumni in Davenport, Des Moines and Denver. The Rev. Alfred 

F. Mendez, C.S.C., Director of the Fisher Educational Fund, was guest speaker at San Antonio, Tulsa, Okla­homa City and Kansas City. The Rev. Francis E. Gartland, C.S.C., editor of the CATHOLIC BOY magazine, was on the alumni club program in Day­ton. The Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., professor of philosophy at No­tre Dame, spoke to alumni and guests at Milwaukee and Kalamazoo. Alum­ni Secretary James E. Armstrong was guest speaker at Columbus, Youngs­town and Canton. 
Lawrence H. Baldinger, Dean of the College of Science, was campus repre­sentative at the Rochester, Syracuse and Schenectady meetings. Head foot­ball coach Terry Brennan was the Chi­cago Alumni Club's speaker. 

James G. McGoldrick, New York City, President of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, represented the University at Hartford, Boston and Providence. J. Arthur Rej-niers, Direc­tor of Lobund Institute, spoke to alum­ni in South Jersey and Harrisburg. James E. McCarthy, Dean of the Col­lege of Commerce, was guest of the 
WASHINGTON, D. C—Hon. Richard M. Nixon, Vice-President of the United States, and Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., were principal speakers at UND Night dinner. 
L. to R.: Gaylord P. Haas, chairman, alumni club board of governors; unidentiGed guest; 
Dr. James M. Corcoran, dub president; Mr. Nixon; and Valentine B. Deale, president-elect and chairman of UND Night event. 
John F. Druze, assistant football coach, was campus guest at Akron. Assistant coach William Fischer spoke to the Elkhart, alimmi. 
John J. Broderick, Assistant Dean of the College of Law, visited clubs in . Dixon, Rockford and Springfield. Bas­ketball coach John J. Jordan was the principal speaker in Muskegon. John Cackley represented the campus at F u Smith, Santa Fe, Albuquerque, El Paso,"' Tucson, Phoenix, San Diego and Jack­son. 
Progress Made in 12 th Annual Alumni Fund 
Oklahoma and Minnesota'lead the nation in Notre Dame Foimdation statistics as this issue of the magazine goes to press. Governor William Sherry's solicitors have already attain­ed 93.6% of the amoimt quota as­signed to Oklahoma for 1954. Minne­sota, tmder the capable direction of Governor Joseph' L. Shiely, Jr., is first in the contributor quota column wth 50% achievement. 
States with, more than half of their amount quota completed include Georgia, and Missouri. Delaware is runner-up to Miimesota in the con­tributor quota class with 48% re­ceived thus far. 
Governors, chairmen and commit­tees in all of the key cities have been conducting a personal solicitation cam­paign since March 1 and which is scheduled to end on May 20. As of May 10 more than 700 alimmi con­tributions have been received this year over a comparable period in 1953. More than $125,000 has been given to the University in 1954 than diir­ing the same time last year. 
Unrestricted gifts from aliunni to the 12th Annual Aliunni Fund will be allocated for the Faculty Development Fund as announced by the Rev. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., several months ago. The Distinguished Pro­fessors Program is underway with con­tacts being made to corporations for financial aid in underwriting an addi­tional 45 distinguished teachers to the Notre Dame faculty. 
This magazine is published bi-mootlily by the University ot Notre Dame, ISTotre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Fostoffice, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 
Notre Dam* AJumnuSt May-Junt, 1954 
ND NAMES CAFFERY LAETARE MEDALIST 
AMBASSADOR CAFFERY 

Notre Dame has named Jefferson Caffery, U. S. Ambassador to Eg>pt, as the recipient of its Laetare Medal for 1954. The award has been made annually since 1883 by the University to an outstanding American Catholic layman. 
Ambassador Caffer)' has been a member of the American Foreign Serv­ice for 43 years. He is a senior in point of service to all American am­bassadors and has held tlie rank of chief of mission as ambassador or min­ister for 28 years. Before assuming his present post in 1949, Cafferj' served as assistant Secretary of State (1933), and Ambassador to Cuba (1933-37), Brazil (1937-44) and France (1944­49). 
BULLETIN— 
The terrific job being done by clubs and classes is the primary reason why we were unable to get all photos of UND Night events in this magazine. Reports from 93 clubs and 40 classes sets an all-time record for activity in these two categories. Also, this is the largest edition of the ALUMNUS ever published.' Our sin­cere thanks to retiring officers, new­ly-elected officers, UND Night chair­men and class secretaries for getting the ne%vs to us. The next issue will contain club pictures and notes which, because of space shortage, fail­ed to get in this time.—John Cackley 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June^ 1954 

Agenda for Club Presidents 
I. The Alumni Association pays transportation expenses of the Presidents. 
II. Registration and room assignment, beginning Wednesday afternoon, AValsh Hall. 
THURSDAY, JUNE 10 
8:00 a.m. Mass, Walsh Hall Chapel 

9:00 a.m. Breakfast, Cafeteria Dining Halls 
10:00 a.m. Opening session, Morris Inn private parlors. James McGold­rick, presiding general sessions; introduction, John Courtney. Administration welcome opening session. Father Joyce 
10:20 a.m. Manual for Alumni Clubs—James E. Armstrong will lead dis­cussion on this basic guide 
11:00 a.m. Universal Notre Dame Night—developments, timing, expan­sion of guests, use of radio and television, campus speakers, and other phases. John N. Cackley will lead the discussion of this great annual Club activity 
11:40 a.m. Universal Communion Sunday—James McGoldrick will lead the discussion of this New York Club-founded event, its ex­pansion, possibilities of a family communion Sunday commem­orating Knute Rockne, etc. 
12:15p.m. Adjournment 

12:45p.m. Luncheon, Private Dining Rooms, Morris Inn. Notre Dame Clubs as Notre Dame Sees Them, a talk by Father Hesburgh 
2:00 p.m. The Notre Dame Foundation, Effect on Clubs and Club Part in Foundation. Father Cavanaugh will lead a discussion on this vital phase of Club activity 
2:40p.m. Club Membership: A panel discussion, featuring representa­tives of the (a) metropolitan Club (b) Club 100-200 members 
(c) small Club (d) area Club (e) recent graduate (f) special groups within the Club, such as lawyers, business men, etc., in the larger Clubs. 
3:20p.m. Atliletics: A panel discussion featuring (a) Ed Krause (b) Bob Cahill (c) Herb Jones (d) raffle representative (e) trip representative (f) rally representative (g) ticket bloc repre­sentative (h) prep athletics representative (i) special repre­sentative, e.g. orphans trip Louisville 
4:00. p.m. The Associate Member, and the Women's Auxiliary: A panel discussion with a half dozen Club representatives, different sizes and locations, with diis background. 
4:40 p.m. Undergraduate relations: Panel discussion with representa­tives of tlic Clubs which have (a) scholarships (b) holiday dances (c) going-away meetings in September (d) summer picnics 
5:20 p.m. Adjournment 
6:15 p.m. Cocktail hour, Morris Inn 

6:45 p.m. Dinner, entertainment. Slides, club exhibits. Publicity, dis­cussion led by James E. Murphy, Director, Public Information 
FwDAY, JUNE 11 
8:00 a.m. Mass, Walsh Hall Chapel, followed by breakfast—Cafeteria 
9:30 a.m. Morris Inn private parlors. Open forum based on Question Box and floor discussion, on e.xp:inding and stabilizing the Notre Dame Clubs, with unfinished business from the limited discussions, new ideas, terms of officers, campus films, football films, and other pertinent questions such as Club directories, glee club and band concerts, etc. 
11:00 a.m. Club financial support of other enterprises, such as charities, retreat houses, seminaries, missions, etc. 
12:30p.m. Closing luncheonj Morris Inn 
bers grow, but the variety of Club 
programs, and the reflection of new 
Alumni Secretary University programs in the commu­
ediid4*al eomme*tU '"""°'" 
I'd like to take this meditative sea­son to sing a little song of the unsung man—the Volunteer Worker. 
We have, too often, a tendency to e-xplain the mystery of Notre Dame (or miracle, if you prefer) by prayer, by the Spirit of Notre Dame, or by the patronage of Our Lady. 
No one will find me arrayed against these common denominators of our progress. 
But stop just a little to consider the Volunteer Worker, who, at the least estimate, has translated these great in­tangibles into the tangible. 
Alumni Board: Possibly the meeting of the Alumni Board stirred this thought. 
For all the years I have been Alumni Secretary, the policies and the pro­grams of the Alumni Association have demanded hours of time, thousands of miles of travel, and much profound and imselfish thinking, from the dozen outstanding alumni who have com­prised the annual membership of the Board. 
Foundation: Possibly it is the forth­coming (at this writing) Foundation conference of 77 State Governors and City Chairmen assembled to be briefed on the arduous program of personal solicitation in their respective areas. 
Certainly the magnificent showing of the Foundation for the University in its short years of operation has come in 

•no small part from the spread of the story of Notre Dame into every State and Chairman City by these Govern­ors, the Chairmen and their City Com­mittees. 
Class Secretaries: I know that my mind jumped backward a few months to the Conference of Class Secretaries. Their faithful pursuit of the Class Note, and their relaying it to the ALUMNUS pages, have made our unity and mutual interest a much richer thing than many schools can boast. The climax of this devotion of the Secretary, in my experience, was the tremendous labor of love that Louis Buckley contributed to the Silver Ju­bilee Sur\'ey of the Class of 1928. But Lou, and other Secretaries, have con­tributed many generous years to this maintenance of the admittedly rich ties of campus friendships. 
Club Officers: It is inevitable in this soliloquy to anticipate the Club Presi­dents Council on ne.\t June 10. The-men who serve as officers of the Local Alirami Clubs are carrying burdens that constantly increase in responsibil­ity. Not only do the numbers of mem­nity, bring new significance and new work to the network of Volunteer Presidents, Secretaries, Directors, Com­mittee Chairmen, and others who share these assignments. 

Prep School Visitors: I would like to separate from all others, too, the men who are constantly interesting young men in coming to Notre Dame. The great values of this work are self-evident. But the long hours of keeping informed on the facts about Notre Dame, the physical demands of the College Day, or the evening meetings witli parents, would make a startling total if modesty should ever permit a reasonable tabulation. 
Trustees and Councillors: The Alum­ni Lay Trustees, and the Alimini mem­bers of the Advisory Coimcils have added neu' and great lustre to the par­ticipation of Volunteer Workers in Notre Dame's progress. And it is not the least of these contributions that they have made possible the asking of similar unselfish services from a grow­ing, great, and appreciated body of friends of the University. 
The 'Talker-Uppers': And for one last verse in this song of the unsung, I 
(continued on page 7) 

Thirty-eight city chairmen of (he Notre Dame Foundation convened on canipus for a special meeting recently. They have heen con­ducting a personal solicitation campaign among alumni for the past tivo-and-one-half months. 
ND Placement Office Appoints Chairmen 
The following Notre Dame clubs had, up to April 1, notified tJie Place­ment Bureau on the campus that they have functioning placement chairmen who are prepared to assist all Notre Dame alumni, and especially the re­turning veterans, who are in need of employment assistance: 
BOSTON—John V. Moran, '30, 31 State St., Boston, Mass. 
CHICAGO—James R. Martin. '23, Olncy J. Dean Steel Co., 933 E. 95th St., Chicago, 111. 
CLEVELAND—Clayton G. Leroux, '27, Monarch Aluminum Manufactur­ing Co., Detroit Ave. at West 93rd St., Cleveland, O. 
DETROIT—John SV. Brennan, '27, American Bloiver Corp., Detroit, Mich. 
KENTUCKY—Joseph F. Donald­son, '23, 613 Wataga Drive, Louis­ville, Ky. 
MILAVAUKEE—Edward J. Rogers, '17, LaNTie-Northwest Co., 6005 'West Martin Drive, Milwaukee, 'Wis. 
NEAV JERSEY—Joseph P. O'Toole, Jr.. '48. 74 Lomrfellow .-^ve.. Newark. N.'j. 
NE\V YORK CITY — Francis J. Conforti, '43, The Tuition Plan, 347 Fifth Ave., New York City. 
NORTHERN C.-VLIFORNIA — A. AVard McMulIen, '25, The National Cash Register Co., 777 Mission St., San Francisco, Calif. 
PITTSBURGH —John C. Sheedy, '28, Lincoln National Life Insurance Co., Farmers Bank Building, Pitts­burgh. Pa. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY— AVilliam 
R. Dooley, '26, Placement Director, Notre Dame. 
Alimini who reside in and/or wish to work in these areas are invited to commimicate with the men listed above. Alumni interested emplojinent­wise in other club areas can communi­cate with the club presidents. The list of placement chairmen in the larger clubs will be. expanded as fast as the club presidents make the necessar)' ap­pointments and send the necessary no­tifications to the Placement Bureau. 
Job-seeking alumni should be re­minded again tliat a personal intervaew by tlie employer is a "must" in all em­ployment procedures. On this account, it is virtually impossible for any place­ment chairman or club president to assist a man in getting a job unless that man is on the scene or prepared to be on the scene. Letters alone won't do it! 
While the Placement Bureau at No­tre Dame is not able to act as an "em­pIojTnent agency" in the usual sense of the term, it will be happy to assist all job-seeking alumni by giving sugges­tions on basic principles and proce­dures in the emploj-ment field. Trj'ing in this way to "help the man help himself," the Placement Bureau co­operates with the placement activities of the clubs. 
WORLD HISTORY For a Better AVorid, by William L. NefT,* Ed.D., Superintendent of City Schools, Mandan, N. Dak., and Mabel G. Planer, M.A., Instructor in AVorld Histor)', Mandan, N. Dak. 
Did the histor>' te.\t that you used in high school contain the equivalent of this quotation: "Man's long struggle for human rights is the theme of tliis book; therefore, we must liave a clear understanding of the term. Human rights are those rights which arc based on the natural Jaw: a law natural to man because it was written by God in the hearts of men and man's reason can know it through reflection. . . . Human rights were first expressed in the Ten Commandments. . . . Christ taught that all are equal before God despite mental and physical defects, and are destined for the same end: union with God. Thus the individual assumed new dignity. To a govern­ment based on such teaching, human rights could have real meanings."? 

This book dedicated to young people of America does. It is written that they may obtain an understanding of man's successes and failures in the past in a manner to help them create a bet­ter world for the future. 
The high purpose as stated is matched in uniform excellence in inte­gration of content, abundant and su­perb illustrations, as well as in organ­ization and inclusion of ctlective teach­ing and learning aids. Contemporary issues and problems are clearly traced to their roots in the past. 
AVhether you, fellow alumnus, read this book to obtain a panorama of world events from Abraham to Malen­kov in terms of their importance in the continuing fight for human rights or purchase it primarily for your high school age son or daughter or for their (or any other public or Catholic school) teacher, you and they will agree that it is masterful. 
LARRY F. STAUDER. '29 

•William NcfF, SuDcrintcndcnt of City Schools, Mandan, No. Dakota, received his B.S.F.C. from the Universitv of Notre Dame in 1929 and his ^^.A. ibid 1930. 
NORTHERN FLORIDA—Universal Notre Dame participants included, L. to R.: Fred 
J. Rahaim, president; William R. Dooley, principal speaker; Most Reverend Thomas J. McDonough, Auxiliarj- Bishop of St. Augustine; Louis J. Finske; and Lester W. Foley, Man-of-the-Year recipient. 
CLEVELAND—Participants at the alumni club's Rocknc Conmmnion Breakfast event were: Right photo (L. to R.), Charles E. Rohr, co­chainnan; club president Flo McCarthy; Archbishop Hoban; and co-chairman J. P. "Pat" Canny. Left photo (L. to R.), Elmer F. Lay-
den; Heartley 'Hunk' Anderson; Jim Armstrong and 
Rockne Communion 
CLEVEL.\ND—The Cleveland alumni club held a P.ockne Connnunion Breakfast which was attended by (L. to R.): Coach Terry Brennan, and former Irish coaches, Frank Leahy, Heartley 'Hunk' .\nderson, Elmer F. Laydcn and Hugh Devore. About 600 people were present for the breakfast. 
who promote the telling of the great 
Editorial Comments 

true stor\- of Notre Dame, and are (continued from page 5) 
quick to challenge the voices of ig­would like to tr)' to picture for you 
norance or prejudice, or misinforma­the magnificent contribution to Notre tion that, unanswered, would build Dame's prestige, made in evciy part barriers in Notre Dame's way. of the world, in all the seasons, and in 
Reward in Heaven: You may not all the hours of the days and nights, by have met all these Volunteer AVorkers. 
that imdcfincd army of champions You must have met some. I have met  Pat Canny. 
 Breakfast 
600 Guests Attend Cleveland Meeting 
The Cleveland Club held a most im­pressive Rockne Memorial Mass and Communion Breakfast on Sunday, March 21. Talks were made by Heartley 'Hunk' Anderson; Elmer Layden; Hugh Devore; Frank Leahy; Terry Brennan; Jim Armstrong; U. S. Senator Tom Burke; Flo McCarthy, club president; Father O'Donnell of the Notre Dame Foundation; Mayor .•^ntliony Celebrezze; Louis B. Seltzer, editor of The Press; AVright Bryan, editor of the Plain Dealer; Jack Ken-non, associate editor of the News; and Pat Canny, co-chairman of the Memo­rial Breakfast along with Charles E. 'Chuck' Rohr. The Man-of-the-Year award was presented to Rohr. Joe Bo-land was toastmaster at the breakfast. The breakfast followed a Memorial Mass at St. John's Cathedral at which .Archbishop Edward F. Hoban ofBci­ated. All Notre Dame head grid coaches since Rockne died attended the affair e.vcept Ed McKeever. 
them all. There are degrees in their intensity, and in their results. And we seek constantly for more. But when Our Lady assembles her Knights in the Courts of Heaven, I feel profoimdly diat the Volunteer Worker, who gave to Her cause so heedless of his own gain, will be among the smiled upon. 
—Jim Armstrong 
Notrt Dame AlumnuSt iiaf'June, J954 

Paterson Committee Suggested Reading: 
Solicits Non-Alumni 
Two-Month Test Campaign Successful In New Jersey Area 
Foundation Cit>' Chairman Joseph 
A. Abbott, Paterson, N. J., has done one of tlie most effective Jobs to date of soliciting non-alumni gifts in the brief histor)' of the Notre Dame Foun­dation. Joe tried a test campaign for two months last Fall (November and December) and succeeded in getting 160 contributors to donate more than $1300. His method of operation is a remarkably simple one — and highly productive! 
Members of the Patereon committee took five specially-prepared envelopes 
JOSEPH ABBOTT, City Chainnan 
for non-alumni contacts. Each en­velope was numbered which made pos­sible a follow-up on the solicitor. The response of the committee was enthusi­astic and many accepted more than the usual five contacts per individual. Two hundred envelopes were dbtrib­uted to solicitors at this meeting. 
These envelopes were stamped and addressed to the Notre Dame Foun­dation, Notre Dame, Indiana. -On the inside flap tliere was space for the donor's name and address as well as the solicitor's name and class year. Contacts were made wAxh sympathetic friends who had never been ap­proached by the University for finan­cial assistance. Concentration was mainly on a minimum of $5 per giver, and it is Joe's impression that if the amount had been as low as $1 there would have been 100% response from the entire number solicited. 
Envelopes were given to neighbors, to personal friends of the solicitor, to the grocery owner—to any one who seemed the slightest bit interested in the University of Notre Dame and a willingness to contribute toward the welfare of educating morally respon­sible leaders. Donors received a letter of thanks from the Rev. John J. Cav­anaugh, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation, and a wallet re­ceipt card in the shape of the Gold Dome. Their names were placed on tlie mailing list for future editions of the NOTRE DAME magazine so tliat these new friends of the University could be kept informed of progress on campus. 
While at Notre Dame, Joe Abbott was a star trackman and graduated with the Class of 1930. At the pres­ent time he is employed as Director of Personnel and Labor Relations of the Federal Telephone and Radio Co., a division of the International Telephone and Telegraph Corp. Joe has been active in the New Jersey Notre Dame Aliunni Club and was co-chairman of UND Night this year. He is married and has one son, Joe, Jr., who will enter Georgetown Medical School next September. 
It worked in Paterson—^and Joe is convinced that with a little effort city chairmen all over tlie country can stim­ulate non-alumni giving either by the Paterson method or another similar version which could be just as effective. 
Mystical City of God 

One of tlie books most deserving of your attention, this Marian Year, is the Mystical City of God,—the com­plete life of the Blessed Vii^n—as re­vealed to, and finished in the year 1665, by the Venerable Mar>' of Ag­reda. It is a book of private revela­tions accorded the saintly nun, and en­joyed gieat popularity' in Europe dur­ing the late 17th Centur)'. 
It is here, for example, that one reads of her birth: "She was bom pure and stainless, beautiful and full of grace, thereby demonstrating that she was free from the law and the tribute of sin . . .". 
A detailed account of the first Christ­mas Eve unfolds before your eyes, as you walk through Bethlehem with St. Joseph who knocks at more than fifty doors to ask if there is room for the Author of I,ife Himself,' and His Im­maculate Mother. 
For 30 years. His Mother was the only disciple whom Our Lord in­structed in all that was to pertain to the Church which He was about to found, so that her knowledge was so vast, she knew each member thereof, what he was to do therein, and whether he was to be saved or not. All this was in preparation for the time after "' Christ's Ascension when "she alone was the chief support of the primitive Church." We are told that the Apos­tles loved her, and vied with one an­other to do her honor. There was one exception — Judas, who treated her , with a coldness that later became out­right hatred. 
Replete with wonders though it is, this volume consists of private revela­tions which members of the Church are not required to accept as we do ar­ticles of Faith. Nevertlieless, these writ­ings have been declared free from error. And on April 29, 1929, His Holiness Pius XI granted the Apostolic Benediction to all readers and promot­ers of the Mystical City of God.^ Tn this Marian Year it should be espe-J cially appropriate. 
—CHARLES M . CAREY, C.S.C. 
Prefect of Religion 

•Available through the Notre Dame Book­store. The 4-volume set, 524.00; the abridged edition, $7.00; Tile Daily Meditation, ?1.50. 
(Photo on right), Arthur Dennehy, '30 (facing camera, center), staff leader and public relations chairman, presiding at a round-table of the clinic (Left), Jordan Hargrove, '33, a clinic leader, giving introductory lecture. 
New York's Clinic On Career Planning 
BY ARTHUR DENNEHY 
Public Relations Chairman Career Planning Clinic 

Alumni Club Sponsors Unique Activity 
The young marine wanted to be a salesman. He was due for discharge in about six months and he didn't want to go back to his job with the public accounting firm. He came to the No­tre Dame Club of New York's clinic on Career Planning. He wanted help to make the switch in jobs without losing benefit of his "accounting ma­jor" degree. 
After graduation from Notre Dame in 1949 he had been given a short training by the company that hired him at a campus interview. Actually he had only two months experience when he was hauled off to Paris Island. His vacation jobs had been as a soda jerk—he never had been even an as­sistant to a salesman. 
Following Career Planning Clinic techniques he studied the qualifications of the sales job he wanted. After some help he came up with the conclusion he likely could get a sales job with a good company if he could prove he had these qualifications (that he): 1) leams quickly; 2) is a hard worker; 3) saves his money; 4) is a good "team work­er"; 5) plans his work intelligently; 6) can handle a tough job; 7) creates a good impression quickly. 
He got nine offers of interviews. 
He got six job offers. 
To help such men as this lay plans for the future and carry them out is the satisfying activity of men and women working under Daniel F.; Cun­ningham, Jr., '27, chairman of the New York Club's Vocational Guidance and Placement Committee, one of whose activities is the once-a-week Ca­reer Planning Clinic. Such extraor­dinary results, he said, often follow application of modem sales techniques to that special job every man has (but many neglect) the management of his own economic life. 

Applied Techniques 
The Guidance and Placement Com­mittee drew up a program based on principles first developed by Sidney and Mary Edlund who have conducted classes at high school and college level to demonstrate that vocational guid­ance can be taught to groups just as are English and accoimting and chem­istry. These techniques are applied in clinics and forums open to adult men and women in all fields—are used also in individual practice. New York Club governors approved establishment of the clinic which was sanctioned as a "test operation" by the national board of directors of the Notre Dame Alum­ni Association. 
"As we see it, the opportunity is wde open to every Notre Dame Club to sponsor a Career Planriirig Clinic as a grand public service ieveh if there are not more than 50 'or. 100 ambi­tious men and women"tin the com­munity." J ,-j 
Notu Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1954 
'Patriot' Award Given 
To J, Edgar Hoover 
By 1954 Senior Class 

Presentation of Noire Dame's new "Patriot of the Year -Award" to FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover was a high­light of the 105di annual AVashington's Birthday exercises of the senior class held on campus. 
Official business prevented the vet­eran Justice Department official from receiving the award in person but he designated Harvey G. Foster, special agent in charge of the FBI's Boston office, to accept the award in his behalf and deliver the address which he had prepared for the occasion. Foster is a fonner president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
More than 700 Notre Dame seniors participated in the traditional AVash­ington's Birthday convocation in the University Drill Hall. Continuing a century-old custom, AVilliam J. Guil­foile of Fond Du Lac, AVis., president of the senior class, presented an Amer­ican flag to the Univei-sity. The flag, which traditionally is flown for the first time on the day of the seniors' graduation, was accepted by the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University. 
Hoover, who has ser\'ed as Director of tlie Federal Bureau of Investigation since 1924, recently was named "Pa­triot of the Year" in a poll of Notre Dame's senior class. 
Father Hesburgh was chairman of the 1953 .Awards Jury of Freedoms Foundation and is a member of the Board of Directors. At a recent meeting in Valley Forge, Pa., the Freedoms Foundation announced the names of 1034 individuals, organizations and schools to receive honors for their work in bringing about a better understanding of the .-Vinerican Way of Life during the past year. In the above photo arc (L. to R.): Dr. Milton Eisenhower, president, Pcnn State College; Kenneth W. Akcrs, Director, Freedoms Foundation; Father Hesburgh; Senator Karl Mundt; and Dr. Kenneth D. Wells, president of Freedoms Foundation. 
COLUMBUS—The speaker's table at UND Night included, L. to R.: Msgr. Mattingly; Mrs. Igoc; Jim Aniistrong, principal speaker; club president John Igoe; Mrs. Eckenrode; Foundation City Chairman John Fontana; Mrs. Fontana; and Robert Eckenrode. 
SPOKANE—(Photo on left): Frank Herron, president; Dr. John R. Tobin, "Man of the Year"; and Judge Raymond Kelly, speaker. (Center, new club oOBccrs): L. to R., Dr. Robert Mahar, president; Robert L. Rotchford, Jr., vice-president; James Presley, secretary; Ed­ward J. Bethke, treasurer. (Photo on right) "Men of the Year" at dinner were (L. to R.) Dr. Tobin, 1954; Vincent P. Slatt, 1952; 
Thomas A. Lally, 1949; and John P. O'Neill, 1951. 
N. D. Basketball Team Attains New Records 

Establishing the best basketball mark percentage-wise since 1942-43, and the most wins since 1935-36, Coach John­ny Jordan's 1953-54 Notre Dame quin­tet broke seven all-time Notre Dame cage records by compiling 22 victories against only three defeats. Added to this was the fact that the Irisii reached tlie regional finals of the NCAA tournament for tiie second straiglit year. 
Excluding Jordan, who received "coach of the year" honors from the New York Basketball AVritei-s, mucli of the credit for Notre Dame's fine season must go to the three 1952-53 regulars who returned this season to fonn one of the most potent trios in the nation. Tlie returning regulars were Captain Dick Rosenthal, senior cen­ter, Joe Bertrand, senior forward, and Jack (Junior) Stephens, junior guard. Combined, they scored 1,339 points of the team's record smasliing total for one season of 1,896 points. Rosenthal, gaining second team All-Amercian rec­ognition by INS, and first All-Catholic, paced Notre Dame's "big tliree" with 506 points, the highest single season total ever registered by an Irish eager. He.also set a new three-year record of 1,227 points, surpassing the career mark of 1,065 set by Kevin O'Shea from 1946-50. Bertrand, who was third in Irish scoring with 412 points, set a new single game record of 35 points in a December game with Loy­ola (Chicago). His three-year mark of 1,052 points places him third behind Rosenthal and O'Shea. The team's second highest pointgetter was Steph­ens with 421 points. Probably the most consistent player on the squad, Steph­ens, along with Rosenthal, won a place on the NCAA All-Regional team. 
Filling in the other two starting po­sitions were Billy Sullivan, senior guard, and John Fannon, sophomore forward. Sullivan, a reser\'e in 1952­53 season scored 169 this season and proved invaluable as a rebounder. He played his best game in Notre Dame's 65-64 triumph over Indiana in the 
Notre Dame's starting lineup included (L. to R.): Jack Stephens (captain-elect); Joe Bertrand; Captain Dick Rosenthal; John Fannon; and Bill Sullivan. 
NCAA tourney. Fannon, fourth high­ing champion Indiana out of the est scorer with 222 points, was the lead­NCAA tournament, was a regular sea­ing scorer against Navy and Penn on son 83-61 victory over Holy Cross, in Notre Dame's second eastern swing. Boston. This is especially true inas­
Possibly the greatest highlight of the much as Holy Cross went on to win season, in addition to knocking defend­the National In\'itational toumev. 
Capt. Rosenthal sets 3-year record of 1,277 points. 
JOHNNY JORD.VN BASKETBALL COACH-OF-THE-YEAR 
Xotre Dame Alumnus, May-June^ 1954 
GATCS-4 -3-6 
CAT£-i.i 
•.•::>.J;^ Alumni (os required) 
^^^^ 

^^3^^^vS^jS^: 
J6 c^ ^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^P^^^P, I 
otr/-/ 

 Season TiekeH  V;«i«Bg Team (as rM|«ired) University A^Miaisfrafioa  Student tody  ParenH of Stadeah 
I Single Game Sate 
CATC-14 

i^umni Football Ticket Privileges m Are Basically Unchanged for 1954 I 
Continuing the policy in effect for the past several years, we set forth again tlie basic points of information concerning alumni football ticket dis­tribution. 
1. Contributors to the Eleventh Annual Alumni Fund in 1953 {please note this year-ahead requirement — a 1954 contribution qualifies you for 1955 —NO T 1954), plus religious and honorary degree holders, are eligible for Advance Sale order 
By ROBERT CAHILL 
Athletic Ticket Manager 
forms for 1954. Exception will be made for 1954 graduates_^ of Janu­ary and June, who will rgeeive Ad­vance Sale forms in their Ifirst year as alumni. 
2. Alumni Advance Sale opens June 21, closes July 15. '•• 
CATE-7 
* -a^ ' x3 
: =; 
:r2:^ 
Iztre-Zd 

m 
%.^TE-3 

1 
/7 1 
la ^' 
1 

pAr£-/(X^ 
=<?^ : 

I 
;GAT£-II 
i 
3. Advance Sale order forms are good for TWO tickets per game, are not 

I 
transferable, and will be honored until July 15 or until the ticket sup­ply is exhausted. If an alumnus 

i 
needs more than two tickets, he must do one of two things: (a) Utilize his Alurmii Advance form for two pre­ferred tickets and order additional seats via the General Use form which will arrive the latter part of July; or, (b) if he requires that his total 
order be adjacent seats, he MUST waive use of his Advance form and order all his tickets on the General Use application (see paragraph 5 
RESERVED SEAT PRICES 
Texas ^4.80 Purdue ^4.80 Pittsburgh ^3.50 Michigan State ^4.80­Navy ^.75 Pennsylvania ^5.25 North Carolina ^.8 0 Iowa ^3.60 Southern California ^4.80 Southern Methodist ^4.50 
(Postage charge, per order, re­
mains the same, fifty cents.) 
below). Advance orders received which ignore the two-limit will be returned. 

4.
 Advance Order forms for Penn at Philadelphia and SMU at Dallas will be restricted to contributing alumni residing in the area of the game sites. Alumni outside these areas who desire to order such tickets for their personal use (there will be no public sale for these two games) may apply by letter to the Football Ticket Committee. At the close of Advance Sale July 15, these requests will be honored if sufficient tickets remain. 

5.
 General Use application blanks for 


>• most games will be sent to ALL alumni the latter part of July. (Dis­tribution of such blanks for Penn and SMU will be determined by ex­tent of the Advance Sale.) This 
fi blank must be used by the contrib­uting alumnus who requires more than two adjacent seats. It carries no priority and is good only after Alumni Advance Sale closes July 15. It is transferable and will be honored 
for tickets not claimed during Alum­ni Advance Sale. General Sale opens August 2 and the Ticket Committee will be glad to send general public blanks to anyone you may designate so long as tickets are available. 

6.
 Consult the accompanying diagram for ticket locations. Please keep in mind that we have about 21,000 alumni, about 10,000 of which are contributors. There are 4,000 seats in Notre Dame Stadium (usually less for away games) available to alumni between the 50-yard line and the goal line. Of these, only 1,600 are in the area between the 35 and 50. Undoubtedly for the Michigan State game, two or three thousand appli­cations will arrive here the first day or two of Alumni sale.' Thus alumni seats all tlie way to the goal line will be accoimted for in that brief period! 

7.
 Alumni Clubs interested in group orders should notify the Ticket Com­mittee before July 1 for tentative reservations. Accommodation of group orders, however, depends en­tirely on demand from individual alumni and no definite assurance can be given until individual sale closes July 15. And we repeat, for the benefit of all Alumni Clubs— seats available for bloc orders can be only the least desirable of our allotment, or what is left after indi­vidual orders are filled. Generally speaking, group orders for games away from home are impracticable because of our relatively small ticket allotment. 


MAILING DETAILS 
No alumnus may use more than one Advance Sale application, nor will a group of orders filled out for various names and addresses be sent to one person. 
If for some reason you want yoiir tickets mailed to an address other than your own, you must first fill in your name and class, IN CARE OF the name and address to which you desire the tickets to be mailed. 
Our normal ticket mailing is scheduled about ten days in advance of each contest. Please don't ask for exceptions. Make your own arrangements for forwarding, or fur-~ nish address effective for our mail­ing date, in accordance with in-­structions of preceding paragraph. 
Alumni who wish to be seated to­gether should forward their appli­cations clipped together IN THE SAME ENVELOPE. We can't seat you adjacently if your orders are filed separately. Nor can we oblige if the order forms are not of the same category; i.e., "Alumni A<1­vance" cannot be seated with "Mon­ogram" orders. 
Keep a careful record of your or­ders as to GAMES, quantities, ad­dresses, amoimt of each remittance, and DATES submitted. Orders are not acknowledged, and it is often impossible to answer inquiries as the pressure of the season's detail in­creases. 
To protect you against delay, we urge SEPARATE CHECKS for Michigan State, Pennsylvania, and SMU orders. 
THE 1954 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
Sept. 25 Texas at Notre Dame Oct. 2 Purdue at Notre Dame Oct. 9 Pittsbiugh at Pittsburgh Oct. 16 Michigan State at ND Oct. 30 Navy at Baltimore Nov. 6 Pennsylvania at P'delphia Nov. 13 No. Carolina at ND Nov. 20 Iowa at Iowa City Nov. 27 So. California at ND Dec. 4 So. Methodist at Dallas 
ffotre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1954 13 

GREEN BAY—^Alunmi and guests celebrated UND Night in Green Bay. Participants in­cluded, L. to R.: William F. Kcrwin, club president; Norbcrt J. Christman, 'Man of the Year' recipient; Rev. John Fceney; and Jack Vainisi, secretary-treasurer. 
TRI-CITIES—Gerald Jones (L) reccii-ing ; Man-of-the-Year award from past-president Edward Sullivan. 
SOUTHERN COLORADO—Alumni and guests enjoyed a dinner party on Universal Notre Dame Night in Colorado Springs. 
HAWAII—The head table on UND Night, L. to R.: Father Norman Johnson, C.S.C., '28, chaplain; Mrs. Flynn; Club President Tom \ Flynn, '35; Mrs. Kelley; Vice-President William Kelley, '44; and Club Secretary Pat Henry, '53. 
Patrick J. Fisher was 'Man of the Year' in Indianapolis. 
MUSKEGON—Coach John Jordan was Notre Dame speaker at Muskegon on UND Night. George Ludwig (extreme left) was 'Man of the Year'; George W. Cannon, Jr., club president, is to Jordan's left. 
954 
SAN DIEGO—Rt. Rev. Msgr. Francis C. Ott, Pastor of Blessed Sacrament Church and club chaplain, received San Diego's 'Man of the Year' award. 
CONNECTICUT—The four state clubs held combined UND Night meeting in Cheshire. Men of the Year are: (L. to R.: (first row), Francis T. Aheam, Connecticut Valley Club; John J. Galla, Southwestern Connecticut Club; James G. McGoldrick, president of ND Alumni Association; Norbcrt Henebry, Naugatuck Club; and Joseph Kennedy, New Haven. 
CINCINNATI—UND Night was featured by dinner meeting with Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, as guest speaker. 
Xolrf Dttmf Alumnus, May-June, 1954 /5 

SOUTH JERSEY—(Left photo). Reverend Kevin B. O'Doherty; Professor Rej-niers, principal speaker; and Reverend Joseph M. Hay­
den. (Center group), Professor Rcyniers; Man of the Y'ear John C. Murphy; and Matt Cainpanella. (Photo on right). Club Presi­den Jim Webb; Mr. Chase; Professor Rcj-nicrs; Father O'Doherty; Toastniaster Hyland; and Father Haydcn. 
{MORE) 
MeetUufl 

T^VIN CrriES—^L. to R.: Dean Janies E. McCarthy, principal speaker; Joseph J. Shicly, toastniaster; and Allan Powers, of the Foundation staff. 
DAYTON—(Photo on left). New officers are, L. to R.: Andy .Amani, treasurer; Leo Condron, president; Frank McBride, >-ice-prcsident; and William MacMillan, secretary. (Other photo), Ed Sleiner (L.) receives Man of the Year award from Hugh Wall. . 
seen. Proceeds from the night went toward the 
Boston Club's Scholarship Fund. 
The Harr>* Marrs, with all nine children, re­cently cut the ribbon on a new bank in Wal­tham, along with Senator JOHN F. KENNEDY. 
HARVEY G. FOSTER, former President of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, has moved into the Boston area. He is in charge of the Bos­ton office of the FBI. Hars'ey is now living in 
alumni group. :\Uo included on the program Milton. Akron were the movies of the 1953 Football Highlights. Annual business meeting of the Boston Club was held Monday, March 22nd, at the Uni­
j\sststant fnotball coach Joliiiny Drii/e was giiest versity Club, Boston. Welcome guest speaker speaker at the Akron club's celfbratioti of Uni­was JAMES W. FRICK, University of Notre versal Notre Dame Niiibt. 

Birmingham 

Dame Foundation. Jim brought along some won­derful pictures of the campus. He also announced An informal meeting of Notre Dame .Mumni that ARTHUR MacMANMON is chairman of the Aurora was held in Birmingham on March 31, at the Notre Dame Foundation, Boston area. Good luck 
the Knights of Columbus home. Proposed projects to Jim and Arthur in their quest for funds. The club gave a farewell party for BILL FISCH­for the year were outlined and communion break­
The officers for the ensuing year are: ER prior to his departure for Xotre Dame as an fast were planned for the latter part of April. 

CHARLES J. PATTERSON, '44, President; —Harr>- C. Reich, '48 

assistant coach on TERRY BRENXAN'S staff. WILLI.\M SULLIVAN, '50, Vice-President, WIL-Highlights of the 1947 sca<inn film were shown. LIA.M M. HEALY, JR., '44 Treasurer (third term); MICH.\EL B. ALANZO '46, Secretary. 
RICHARD S. HERLIHY and HARVEY G. FOSTER \vere elected to serve as members of the 
Blue Water District 

Baltimore The local alumni club held a meeting in Janu-Board of Directors for a period of three years. 
ar>- with Highlights of the 1953 football season 

ROBERT LYNCH, '53, LOUIS DIGIOVAXNI, Universal Notre Dame Nigiit was celebrated 
being shown and talks given by MARCE VER­

'50, and ARTHUR DO.MBROSKY, '33 were ap­with a dinner-meeting at the Park Plaza Hotel. 
BIEST, Foundation Governor in Michigan, and 

pointed by President PATTERSON to sen-c as Talks were given bv FRANCIS R. aWVLEY. 
JOHN CACKLEY from the campus office. HARRY 

directors for a period of one year. 
'33, and the Rev. THOMAS FITZPATRICK. 
ERD, JR., '46, introduced the program. Presi­

C.S.C., '31. The Man of the Year award was Universal Notre Dame night was celebrated 
dent WILLL\M WILSON, '42, presided. 

presented to PETER HAJEUSKI. FR^\NK HOCH-on Tuesday. April 27th. JIM .McGOLDRICK, REITER, '3J , was toastniastcr. OlTicers elected President of the Notre Dame Alumni was the for I9M-55 arc: JAMES H. MURR.\Y. president; guest speaker. Retiring president JOHN T. JOSEPH PONS, vice-president; JA.MES BARRETT, BURKE, '29 was honored as "The Notre Dame 
Boston 

secretarv-; and PETER HAJEWSKI, trexturer. Man of the Year." The committee making said About 80 alumni and gue.sts attended the dinner appointment consisted of JOSEPH W. O'REILLY 
Tlie Boston Club's Communion Breakfast wvts

which was preceded by the usual cock:ail party. '48, JOHN V. MOR/\N, '30, and JOHN F. 
held on Sunday. December 6, 1953. Nine o'clock 

A check for $210 was received by the Notre S.VUNDERS, *31. John Burke has ser\ed as Club 
Mass was celebrated by Rev. CORNELIUS J. 

Dame Foundation x^^ a result of the Vagabond President for two years. He is Vice-President of 
DONOVAN, '09. at the Blessed Sacrament Chap­

Theatre party on January- 12. The contribution John C. Dowd, Inc., Advertising Specialists, 212 
el, the Holv Cross cathedral, Boston. Breakfast 

was applied towards Baltimore's chemistry room Park Square Building, Boston 16. President Pat­
followed at the Statler Hotel. JOHN V. .MOR­

in the Nicnwland Science Building. The gift terson outlined club activities for the coming year 
AN, '30, chairman. It was the largest turnout 

canie as a direct result of the efforts of the and appointed committees for the same. 
the Boston Club lias had in recent years for a

Baltimore Foundation Coniniittee headed bv Two most welcome visitors for UND Night from 
communion breakfast and we hope it's an indi­cation of larger numbers for future affairs. 

FRANKIA'N HOCHBEITER, '35. the Notre Dame campus were Father ROBERT J LOCHNER and Asst. Dean SMITH of the Com­
The Notre Dame basketball team, led by Cap­

merce School, who were in Boston for a conven­
tain Dick Rosenthal. tt>ok over the Boston Gar­

tion. 
Battle Creek dens on Friday, J3nuar>' 15th. upsetting Holy 
Cross S2-G1. Prior to the game the club had a Notre Dame is well represented with feature In the formation of the Battle Creek Club cocktail hour at the Hotel Lcno.x. The rooting writers on the Boston papers. J. RICH.\RD officers elected arc as follows: section for the team numbered 500, with many UAMERE '49 is with the Boston Hcrald-Traveler, President, ROBERT BRESKA, '43; Vicc-Prcs., unable to secure tickets. .An annual ND-HC JOHN J. SULLIVAN '50 with the Boston Post RvVYMOND ALLEN, 40; Secretarv, DAVID basketball game is urged by all in tiiis area. and JOHN E. CONWAY, '46 with the Boston STEELE, '50. HARRY M.ARR, as Chairman, ctuiductcd a foot­Advertiser. The latter two have both been re­CHASE BL.-\CK was appointed Foundation Ad­ball night. Wednesday. February- 24th, at cently married. John Sulli\-an is living in Lynn visor to the croup. John Hancock Hall. Boston, showing pictures of and Jack Conway has moved to Winchester fol­
Recently .MARCE VERBIEST. '20. Foundation the 1953 football season. Those in attendance lowing a Bermuda honeymoon. Jack was mar­Governor of Michigan, and JOHN CACKLEY thoroughly agreed that these were the most com­ried Fcbruar\- 6. 1954. from the campus office vistcd with the local plete football pictures that any of us had ever —Dick Herlihy 
DEXA'^ER—Father Thomas O'Donnell, C.S.C., was principal speaker at Denver on UND Night. L. to R. (at head table): Mrs. Phil Clarke, ^Villianl Bradley, Mrs. Bradley, Father O'Donnell, Anton Pojnian, Jr., Mrs. Pojnian and Tom Gargan. 
ST. LOUIS—Head tabic at UND Night dinner included, L. to R.: John J. GriRin, Jr., toastmaslcr; Mrs. McNeil; Father Marchetti; Mrs. *' 
Con\'}-; Father Joyce, principal speaker; George Con\-y; Msgr. Byrne; Mrs. Griffin; Father Reeves; and Fred McNeil. ? 
of the Football Highlights of '53 were also on 
Buffalo the program. Calumet Our annual Retreat at Derby-on-thc-Lake run 
At an enthusiastic meeting attended by about by the Columban Fathers set a new attendance Universal Notre Dame Night was climx\cd by 100 members and presided over bv retiring record, 19 Club members spent a fruitful week­tlic Calumet Club when, before a capacity crowd President, JIM CL.\USS, *44, the following of­end. MAURY QUINN was the Chairman. of members and their guests, they presented tlieir ficers were elected for the ensuing vear: "Man of the Year" award to TIMOTHY "TIM" 

JIM PRICK was in town April 6, and, after 
President, RICHARD THOEX, '39; Vice-Presi­GALVIN of Hammond. The presentation was 

dinner with about 10 of us, presented some 
dent, CHARLES HANNA, '16; Treasurer, NICHO­made at Phil Smidt's Restaurant in Whiting. 
startling and encouraging figures on Alumni giv­
LAS WILLETT, M8; Sccrctar%-, PAUL ALLWEIX '49. ing. Plans were set up to complete the Buffalo Calvin, class of 1916, is an Attorney in Ham­
Area Foundation program by May 20. mond, Indiana. He was honored by the Club Added to tlic Board of Directors were: 
for his many civic activities and contributions to genuine success. Co-chairmen DON MAHONEY 
Universal Notre Dame Night, May 3rd, was a 

JACK SHINE, MAURY QUINN, R.-\LPH his community, as one of the charter members ELSE, PAUL ALLAX-ELN. and first officers of the Alumni Club, for his 
and JACK LaVIGXE earned our appreciation President Tliocn dedicated the Club to the for the excellent program whicli followed a. 
many actinties in the Knights of Columbus, and for his active support of the University during Blessed Mother for the Marian Year. AVe planned smorgasbord. WILLIAM B. L/VWLESS, '44, Cor­and since his graduation. 
a football excursion to Pittsburgh in the Fall. poration Counsel for the City of Buffalo, 
When the Irish basketball squad came to town was the principal speaker. The Scholarship Com­The address of the evening was made bv Di-an lo play Canisius wc held a luncheon the day mittee, led by RALPH ELSE, finished a year's JAMES MCCARTH Y of the School of Coiiiraerce. of the game. Co-chairmen TOM DOWD and hard work by awarding a 4-year scholarship to He dealt with the great need for moral leader­NICK WILLETT, '48, had the SRO signs out Notre Dame to GEORGE NAVADEL. George ship In the United Slates. He went on to say with a full house. Tlic ri\-al coaches, Joe Curran and his parcnLs were our guests for the eve­that since 1897, when the U. S became for the and JOHNNY JORDAN gave excellent talks fol-ning. Our goal is to set up a permanent scholar­first time a creditor nation, as opposed to a lowed by Father Dobson, president of Canisuis, ship fund at the UniiTrsily. debtor nation, they have made tremendous strides and FATHER JOYCE of Notre Dame. Movies —Paul J. Allwein until today when they arc looked upon by the 
SAGINAW VALLEY—The combined alumni groups in Saginaw, Bay City and Midland celebrated UND Night with stag dinner meeting. 
whole world for leadership. However, moral leadership has not developed as quickly as they have in other fields—political, military and eco­nomic. McCarthy emphasized the need for great teachers in all of the countr)''s educational in­stitutions to guide Americans to higher moral 
values. 
Among the approximately 183 in attendance 
were Mr. and .\rrs. JIM ARMSTRONG of the 
Alumni Office and ^fr. and Mrs. WILLLVM 
"BILL" DOOLEY. Bill, a former officer in our 
Club, renewed quite a few old acquaintances. 
JACK OGREX, 1949, \%-as elected president of 
the Club for the next two years. He will be 
assisted by JERRY GAINER, 1943, re-elected 
vice-president, TOM CLIFFORD, '49, treasurer, 
and ERNIE HUFFMAN, '49, re-elected secre­
tary. 
JAMES MORRISON, the outgoing prexy, was 
elected to a spot on the Board of Directors, 
where he will join BILL RILEY '38, and JIM 
PURCELL, '42. 
In a special presentation, the Board of Di­
rectors awarded JAMES GLENN, '35, an ap­
propriately engraved plaque for his outstanding 
work as president of the Club from 1949-1951. 
Jim was commended for his excellent efforts in 
reviving the club after the war years 
—Ernie HufTman, Sec*v. 
Canton 

The Notre Dame Club of Canton enj'oyed a stag obser\'ance of Universal Notre Dame Night on Thursday, April 29, In a very attractive country club atmosphere, highlighted by the presence of eight high school seniors accepted for Notre Dame in September of 1954, by an excellent crowd, an excellent meal, and by the first appearance in the Club of J.VMES E. ARMSTRONG, alumni secretary. LOU SINGER, '48, new president of the Club, who succeeded CHARLES J. KEN­NEDY, '49, presided at the dinner. The talk was followed by a question period for the new students present, and a later informal group at the Beldcn Hotel asked and answered all other questions. A good background of well-blendcd membership should keep the Canton program in­creasing to meet the promising addition to the Club of such young men as those who were enj'oying a prc-campus touch of Notre Dame life. 
Central Illinois 
The alumni club obscr^'ed Universal Notre Dame Night with Mr. John J. Broderick, as­sistant dean of the College of Law, as guest speaker from the campus. 
Central New York 
The University of Notre Dame Club of Cen­tral New York celebrated Universal Notre Dame night with over 100 alumni, wives and guests attending a dinner followed by dancing at the Yates Hotel. 
Doctor L/VWRENCE BALDINGER, Dean of the College of Science at the University of Notre Dame was the guest speaker. He chose as his topic the *'Great Teaching Project.'' which is being em­phasized this year throughout the United States. 
Doctor THOMAS E. SNYDER of East Syra­cuse was chairman of the dinner assisted by Mrs. DANIEL A. KELLEY who is sen-ing as auxiliary* chairman. 
PHILLIP G. KELLEY is President of the Alum­ni organization and THOM/VS R. HERBERT and ROBERT G. SULLIV/\N arc Vice Presidents, and PAUL LONERG/\N is Secretary and Treas­urer. Mrs. EDWIN W KENEFAKE is President of the Auxiliary. 
Central Pennsylvania 
The Noire Dame Club of Central Pcnnsyl­\'ania held its election of officers at the . resi­dence of Father PHILIP O'DONNELL in Altoona on Sunday^ March 28. The following officers were elertcd: 
President, D. A. SCHETTIG, '30, Edcnsburg, P x Vice-President, STEPHEN J CONWAY, '35, Johnstown, Pa. Scc'y-Treas., CHARLES G. H,\S­SON, '46, Edensburgh, Pa. 
We were fortunate in having secured Father John Cavanaugh as principal speaker for our Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner on April 27. 
YOUNGSTOWN—itVIimini Secretary James E. Annstrong was the featured spcalier for UND Night. L. to R.: Paul A. Guamieri, John J. Kane, Jr., Jim Armstrong, Griff Allen and Charles B. Cushiva. 
installation of club officers for the 1954-55 year. 
Chicago 

They are; honorary- president, RAYMOND W. DURST, '26; president, JOHN J. O'SHAUGH-Nearly 650 members and friends of the Notre NESSY, '33; first vice president, JOE McCABE, Dame Club of Chicago, gathered for the 1954 '33; second vice president, ROBERT EMMETT Universal Notre Dame Night dinner April 26 ^VRIGHT, '42; treasurer, JUSTIN OTOOLE, at the Morrison hotel, enthusiastically applauded '36, and secretar>-, GEORGE MURPHY, '51. 
talks by former coach FRANK LEAHY and his GEORGE MENARD, '34, and the new secre­successor, TERRY BRENNiVN, on the past, pres­tary*. Murphy, were co-chairmen of the annual ent, and future of football at Notre Dame. 

event. 
Loudest applause of the evening came follow­Retiring president GIL SEAMAN, '31, sum­ing another feature of the dinner—the presenta­marized the year's events and paid tribute to his tion of an award by the club to Leahy as officers, board of directors, and committee "Man of the Campus for 1953." Awards of this chairmen. *'Only at the end of his year can anature, which are made with the cooperation club president realize what a heavy burden he of the University, are an annual event at Uni­assumed at the beginning of his term," said versal Notre Dame night in Chicago. 

Seaman. *'0nly then, too, does he realize the Football was not the only activity receiving trus extent of his debt to the friends who under­attention during the evening, however. Another took the responsibility of running affairs such favorite concern of the Irish—politics—also came as this one, the golf tournament, communion in for its share of attention when the toastmaster breakfast, and so forth." 
of the dinner was announced. He was SHER­WOOD DIXON, prominent and popular alumnus President 0'Shaughness>* also spoke briefly, from DLxon, Illinois, who was lieutenant gov­welcoming the guests and assuring members he ernor under Adlai Stevenson, and fought a gal­would make every effort to continue the fine rec­
lant battle in the last gubernatorial campaign ord of his predcccesors in the coming year. as Democratic nominee. 
A social get-together following the speeches Another event on the program was the formal concluded the evening. 
BUFFALO—Participants in the luncheon, given by ND Club of Buffalo, preceding Canisius-Notre Danic basketball ganie. L. to R.: Coach Johnny Jordan of Notre Dame; Coach Joe Curran of Canisius; Father Edniund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of Notre Danie; Father Dobson, president of Canisius; and Janics F. Clauss, club president. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June^ 1954 

1954 at which tmie the annual election of officers 
OHIO VALLEY—^.-Vttending UND Night obsen-ancc were: (L. to R.) Mrs. Yaeger; George SargiB, retiring president; William Yaeger, 'Man of the Year'; Russell Rickus, new presi­dent; and Robert Sinca>"ich, \-ice-president. 
Cincinnati 
The NCAA Convention was held in Cincinnati during the first part of Januar>'- Our Club gave a party in the \^clorv' Room of the Sheraton-Gibson Hotel for all N'D men attending the con­vention. JOE MORRISSEY was the able chair­man, as he was two years ago when the As­sociation met here. He was assisted by JOE MEYER, PAUL SCHWETSCHEXAU and JIM BARTLETT. 
Our obsen'ancc of Universal Notre Dame Night took place on April 21 with a formal dinner in the Restaurant Contincntale of The Neth­erland Plaza Hotel. The dinner was preceded by a reception. Father JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C. Director of the Notre Dame Foundation was the guest of honor and principal speaker. Others on the program were Archbishop Karl J. Alter, 
D.D. and Councilman JOHN J. GILLIGAN. Councilman Gilligan, a Notre Dame graduate and club member, represented the city in the ab­sence of Mayor Edward N. AValdvogel, who was unable to attend because of illness. BOB Mc-CAFFERTY was toastmaster as well as chairman of the evening and he did an excellent job in arranging and directing tlic affair. 
The "Man of the Year" award was presented by president JOHN W. FEAD, to JOHN COT­TINGHAM. John is a former sccretar>* and president of the Club and served on the Board of Directors for three years. He \*'as chairman of the Christmas Dance two years and it is large­
KALAMAZOO—The Kalamazoo and Battle 
ly tlirough his efforts and Ingenuity that the dance is so successful each year. John alo di­rected our Universal Night ob5er\'ance last year. He has been one of our most active and hard working members and richly deserves the honor 
To keep peace in our political family, we must correct the information which appeared in the last issue of the Alumnus. JIM CLARK a former Republican State Representative was appointed a commissioner of Hamilton County and JACK GILLIGAN was elected councilman on the Charter-Democratic Ticket. The Alumnus re­ported last time that Jack was elected on the Republican Ticket and was a former representa­tive. 
Coming events for t)ie Club include the an­nual election of officers in May, the summer dance and the summer picnic 
—Ray Gudmcns, *47, Sec'y-

Cleveland 
A testimonial dinner in honor of the Rt. Rev. Edward J. Seward was sponsored by the alumni club on January' 22 at the Cleveland A. C. 
Johnny Lattner, Notre Dame*s AIl-American halfback, was the winner of this year's Cleveland Downtown Club*s Player of the Year award. The dinner, whicli was attended by many alumni, was held at the Cleveland Athletic Ctub. 
The C1e\'eland Club obser\"cd Universal Notre Dame Night at Rohr's Restaurant on April 29, 
 Creek clubs combined to celebrate UND Night. 
took place. 
The following men gamed ofllces for the 1954­1955 terms: FRANK E. GAUL, M9, president; JOHN A. MATOUSEK, »33, vice-president; ROB­ERT F. O'MALLEY, '50, secretary; GUY R. GALARDO, '53, treasurer. 
—Robert F. O'.Nfalley, Sec'y-

Columbus 
Our Family Communion breakfast was certainly an inspiring event. The group, about 140 in number, attended Mass at the Cathedral. His £xcellenc>*. Bishop Ready preached and the beautiful things he said ^ou t Notre Dame and her men made all of us proud to be members of the family. There followed a lavish break­fast at the Fort Hayes Hotel. Coach BOB Mc-BRIDE was' our speaker and he did a magnificent job, both in his oratory and In his handling of the young fellows who plagued him with ques­tions. One of our newest members, BERNARD LUTHMAN was Chairman of this event and his *53 classmates can well be proud of the man­ner in which he handled the assignment. LEO KLETZLY, Dr. TOM HUGHES, LOUIS MUR­PHY and BOB POISSON gave Bernard a hand with the details and the quality of their work is attested to by the fine turn-out. 
During the holidays we sponsored an afternoon brunch for the Alumni, and their wives, the stu­dents (of Notre Dame and St. Nfary'^s) and their parents. The tele\ised joust between the Lions and the Bro^vns was the focal point for the men who were almost equally divided as Detroit and Cleveland partisans, while the ladies ex­changed recipes and bits of local gossip. There was plenty- of coffee, soft drinks, and canapes so the afternoon eased Into early evening w^th plenty of camaraderies, conversation and con­vi\-iality. Another recent graduate, LARRY STEM­BER was Chairman of this event and with the help of AL EICHENLAUB, JOHN VISIN"nNE, JOHN MURPHY and BOB POISSON did a commendable job of making this affair worthy of remembrance. 
Our plans to have our Glee Club here in April were thwarted by a prior arrangement to bring the Holy Cross Glee Club under the auspices of the Catholic Women*5 Society to Columbus on the same date we had set. We are not discouraged, however, and hope to be more successful In this effort next year. 
Some of the club members had a luncheon for RALPH GUGLIELMI during his enforced stay at home between semesters. The local sports \vriters were guests and their comments on Ralph and Notre Dame made us all ver>' happy. The manner in which Ralph took his rebuff and the grand manner in which he counseled the elementar)* school athletes, clubs and Holy Name Societies makes the Columbus Club proud of him and hopeful that Notre Dame is a\v'are of his gentlemanly conduct while warming the scholas­tic bench. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated in Columbus April 26—and it was a grand af­fair. Ninety members and wives enjoyed a deluxe dinner of chicken paprikas (a Hungarian entree 
 Photo on left (L. to R.): Dr. McMorrow, 
toastmaster, featured speaker Father Tom Brennan, C.S.C., Mrs. AfcMorrow and Robert Breska, president of Battle Creek group. Photo on right sho^re Dr. and Mrs, McMorrow and Kalamazoo president James Mahoncy at microphone. 
SAN DIEGO—^Aliuuni and guests attended UND Night dinner in Marlin Inn. Jack McClaren, club president, was toastmaster. John 
Cacklcy represented the campus as guest speaker. 
at an "Irish" dinner) in the eye catching setting 
of Ilonka's Provincial House. 
First order of business was the awarding of 
"Man of tlie Year" scroll to JOHN FONTANA, . *28, who has done a remarkable job as our Foundation Fund Chairman. John was com­pletely surprised by the award but managed to make a pleasant thank you speedi with a com­
mercial for the Fund. 
Next, new officers were elected—JOHN MUR­
PHY. *28, president; GENE COYLE, Vice-Pres.; 
LARRY STEMBER. Secretary and "BO" NES­
TER. Treasurer. JOE KINNEARY and BOB 
ECHENRODE were installed as Trustees. 
TTien our genial Alumni Secretary, JIM ARM­
STRONG, took over and gave us a fine talk on 
the new programs of our University and the new 
accomplishments of the old programs. It was good 
to have Jim with us and we are inclined to think 
he was pleased to be with us. 
Finally, we had a film on KNUTE ROCKNE 
through the courles>- of General Tire. 
It was a breathtaking climx-c for our party and 
those of us who knew "Rock" were carried awray 
by some of the football scenes and the sound of 
his voice. PAT CAN'SY of Cleveland was our 
guest and told us he was present when Mr. 
Rockne recorded the speech on the film. A 
great climax to a great party! 
In March FATHER JOHN aWANAUGH 
was in Columbus and wc entertained him with 
dinner at Scioto Country Club Thirty-five mem­
bers were on hand to welcome Father John and 
to hear his report on the Foundation Fund and 
our ^vpnderful, wonderful Notre Dame. It was 
a memorable evening—fine food, lots of laughs 
and that enviable camaradaric peculiar to Notre 
Dame men. Thank you. Father John, for your 
part in this affair. 
—John D. Igoe 
Connecticut Valley 
On Monday, April 12, 1954 the Notre Dame 
Club of the Connecticut Volley held elections of 
officers for the coming year. 
President, JOHN F. ROBINSON, '28; \^cc-
President, ^\^LLIAM GALLO. '52; Treasurer, 
JOHN BRIGHT. '43; Secretary, JAMES FL.\­
HERTY, JR., '53. 
For the past few years our club has not been 
too active, however, with the influx of a great 
many alumni from the classes of '52 and '53, we 
feel that in the future our organization will be 
ver>* lively. 
JOSEPH E. KENNEDY, '32, was chosen Man 
of the Year by the ND Club of New Haven. 
Joe was given the honor during tlie dinner at 
the Wavcrly Inn, Cheshire, Conn., sponsored by 
the four Notre Dame Clubs of Connecticut, Sun­
day, April 25. 
Over two hundred ND alumni and friends 
attended the Universal ND night dinner. Speaker 
was JAMES McGOLDRICK, President of the 
Notre Dame Alumni Association. Other Man of 
the Year a^vard recipients were: NORBERT 
HENEBRY of Uie Naugatuck Valley Club, JOHN 
GALLO of the Southwestern Club, and FRANK 
AHEARN of tlie Connecticut Valley Club. 
WILLLV.\( MURR^VY of the Southwestern Club organized the dinner and received the coopera­tion of the other three Clubs in the state. I would say that, in every respect, the dinner was a complete success; by acclamation the affair was deemed worthy of repetition in years to come. 
—Joseph P Bums. Sec-Treas. 
Dallas 
On Sunday, April 4, the Notre Dame Club of Dallas held its regular quarterly Mass and Communion Breakfast. The function was attended by both the Notre Dame graduates and their wives, at Holy Trinity Church. After a very lovely breakfast at Dallas Country Club, the group was addressed by The Right Reverend Monsignor O'Brien, who talked to us concerning the truth in Catholic education. 
The breakfast closed with a final ^vord from WALTER FLEMING, Notre Dame Foundation leader, concerning our Club making a good showing for this current Foundation year. 
The club held the biggest Universal Notre Dame Night event in history on May 3 with Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., as guest speaker. 

—J. M. Haggar, Jr., Sec'y. 

Dayton 
Our annual UND Night was held Monday, April 26, at Antlcole's Restaurant with the largest turnout that we have ever experienced at this annual affair. It w^as our privilege to have as our guest the Editor of the Catholic Boy, Fr. Frank Gartland, C.S.C., who spoke on the subject, "Great Teachings." 
Mr. HUGH WALL, JR., prominent Dayton at­torney, was the recipient of our ND Man of the Year award. The presentation was made by our former president, £D STEINER. Also, Mr. Steiner announced the Board of Directors. They are ED STEINER, GENE MAYL, FRANK ^fcBRIDE, LEO CONDRON. DICK POHL and ED DUFFY. 
After Fr. Gartland's fine talk, Mr Leo Condon presented to him $365 for the Scholarship Fund and $200 for the NT) Foundation. This, inci­dentally, brings the Scholarship Fund up to the total of $2,000. 
At the conclusion of festivities, the following 

OKLAHOMA CITY—*Man of the Year' was Bishop Eugene J. McGuinness. L. to R-: Dick HofT, *32; Bishop McGuinness; and Ed Kavanaugh, '38, club president Father Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., ^vas guest speaker from Notre Dame. 
NEW JERSEY—^Athletic Director Ed Krause was principal speaker on UND Night. Other guests arc: (seated) L. to R., Father Philip Hoover; Dr. Philip Proi-issiero, \-icc-prcsident; Krause; toastniaster Jack Lavclle; dinner chairman Joe Abbott; John Law, '29 grid cap­tain; John Winbcrrj-, ND Foundation Governor in New Jersey; and (standing) L. to R.: Frank Ruggiero, Angelo Bertelli, Frank Tri­
pucka, Jim McGurk, Nonii Sumett, Dan Halpin, Jim White and Jack Long. 
men were elected to the respective positions: 
Pres., LEO CONDRON, '49: V!ce-prcs , FRANK 
McBRIDE, '50; Sccrctar%-, BILL MacMILLAN, 
'52; Treasurer, ANDY AMAN, '30. 
—Harr^- E. Wornian 

Dearborn 
The Dearborn CIul> was honored on tlie occa­
sion of its 5t)i Annual Communion Breakfast 
Sunday on April 4th by having Notre Dame 
Univcniity*s President, REV. THEODORE M. 
HE5BURGH C^.C , celebrate the Holy Sacri­
fice of the Mass at St. Bcmadettc's Churcli and 
give the principal talk after breakfast at tlie 
Dearborn Inn. Hts inspiring talk on "The Notre 
Dame Family" was thoroughly enjoyed by all. 
Mr. Henry Ford II, president of tlie Ford 
Motor Company, was named the Dearborn 
Club's **Man of the Year." Fr. Hesburgh pre­
sented the award to prax\- Mr. AVilliam C. 
Pine, director of the Ford Motor Company 
Scholarship Fund, who accepted it for Mr. Ford 
in behalf of Fr. Hcsburgh and the other col­
legiate educators who have encouraged and as­
sisted the Ford Foundation and its educational 
philanthropies. 
Tlie newly elected club officers were intro­duced by out-going president and ctiairman of the breakfast, PETE KERXAN, '49, who received the club's annual past-president plaque for a job well-done in '53. The new officers arc: Presi­dent, DICK KING, '37; \ncc Presidents, CLEM CONSTANTINE, '44 and JERRY WA^^NO, '47; Sec'y. Treas., JERRY CASS, '48. 
"Notre Dame Men of the Year," of previous years, included in the 184 persons who were in attendance were "Second Vice President of tlie National Alumni Ass'n." JOHN W. COURTNEY, of the Dearborn Club and HARRY F. KELLY, MARCE VERBIEST and ART CRONIN of the Detroit Club. 
Sixty alumni and their friends \*iewcd the 1953 Football Highlights at the Wcstwood Inn on February 2. CLEM CONSTANTINE, '46, serxed as toastmaster. Talks were given by C. M. VERBIEST, Foundation Governor of Midiigan, and JOHN CACKLEY from the campus office. 
An informal dinner-dance was held on January* 16 at Uie Botsford Inn wth JOHN KILBANE, '42, as chairman. 
The club held a Day of Recollection for men at Duns Scotus on March 13. The e\'ent w*as conducted by Father Blumlein, O.F.M., Spiritual Director of Pius X Fraternity of the Tliird Order of St. Francis. JOHN CURRAN, '40, ser\'ed as chairman. 
—^Jcrr\* Gass, Sec'y. 

Denver 
FATHER HESBURGH \istted Denver in March and attended a club lunclicon held in his honor. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1954 • 

While in Denver, be made three television and one 
radio appearance. About 70 members of the club 
Des Moines 
attended the luncheon which was arranged by The Club lias elected the following officers Dr. DAN MONAGH.\N, '38, and BOB FLYNN, for 1954: '50, co-chairmen; Judge AL FRANTZ, '29, and President—LOUIS F. KURTZ, '43. 213 42nd TOM GARGAN, '49. 
Street, Des Moines 12, Iowa. 
Father THO.MAS O'DONNELL. C.S.C., as­Vice President—KENNETH J. REXSTREW, sistant to Fatlicr Cav'anaugh in the Notre Dame •30. 526 60lh Street, Des Moines 12, Iowa. 
Foundation, ^vas guest speaker at the Universal Secretary Treasurer — ROBERT DREY, '53. 
Notre Dame Night celebration in Denver. 
5711 Walerburj- Rd., Des Moines 12, Io>va. 
The Denver Notre Dame Club has elected tlie following named ofTicerS and directors for tlic term of April 27, 1954 to .April, Universal Notre Dame Night, 1955: 
Detroit 
Judge ALBERT T. FR.\NTZ, '29, 949 South 
Josephine, Denver—President. Since the Alumnus went to press tlie club has Dr.PHILLIP J. CLi\RKE, '44, 1956 Hudson, held a supper-daacc at the Latin Quarter with Denver—^Vice-President. LARRY SMITH, '49, serving as chairman in 
^VALTER L. SCHR^VDER, '37, 2714 South charge of reser\"ations. Hooker, Westwood, Colo.—Sccrelarv*. The club bad special reser\'ations at the De­JOHN D. RY.\N, '47, 1900 Eudora, Denver-troit Times Dou'ntou*n Quarterback Club's an­Treasurer. nual dinner which honored John Lattner, who THOM.\S J. GARGAN, '49; ROBERT J. received the club award, and head coach TERRY 
FLYNN, '50; Dr. JOHN G HEMMING, '34; BRENNAN and Athletic Director ED KRAUSE. and GER.\RD J. SMITH. '27, as directors. The The club's annual Manresa Retreat was held new president automatically becomes the fifth di­the %vcckend of March 5-7. TIM CRUICE, '38, rector under our organizational setup. and ROY BARRON, '37, ser\cd as chairmen. 
—^;\nton Pojman, Jr. Universal Noire Dame Night was celebrated 
GRAND RAPIDS—Dean James E. McCarthy ^-as featured speaker at the club*s UND Night dinner. L. to R.: Joseph Moore, Frank Fallon, Dean McCarthy, Leo Walsh and John Flanagan. The Club gave $300 to the University at the ineeting. 
at the Latin Quarter on April 28 with FATHER HESBURGH, Ralph D. Paine, Jr., publisher of Fortune magazine and Maj. Gen. Frank A. Armstrong, Commandant of the Second Air Force as guest spcalcers. Toastmastcr was John 
J. Bugas, vice-president of Ford Motor Company. EDWARD A. GAGE, '29, was chairman of the affair. 
New dub officers arc as follows: JOHN W. ANHUT, president; ARTHUR D. CRONIN, JR., first vice president; JAMES J. BYRNE, second vice president; EDWARD A. GAGE, secretary; WILtlAM C. RONEY, JR., treasurer. 
Eastern Kansas 
On Sunday, ^farch 14, 1954, the first meeting of the Notre Danie Club of Eastern Kansas u-as held at Haydcn High School, Topeka, Kansas, JOHN PARRY, temporary chairman, called the meeting to order. He announced that the purpose of the meeting was to form the Notre Dame Club of Eastern Kansas. The following Notre Dame graduates were in attendance: 
JOHN PARRY, M9. L.\WRENCE A. "Moon" MULLINS, *31. BERNARD PETERSON, *38, EMIL L. TELFEL, '31, HENRY DEVLIN, '49, H/\RL/\N DEVLIN, *5I, PAUL HURD, '44. 
Also attending were members of the Hayden High School Booster's Club, and fathers of pre­sent and former Notre Dame students. 
Chairman Parr\- turned the meeting over to GEORGE SCHWARZ, *25, of Wichita, Kansas, who outlined the purpose of the club and its functions in relation to the University. 
Larr>- "Moon" Mullins, '31, Director of Ath­letics at Kansas State College then addressed the group. He recalled some highlights of his college days; particularly the Army games of 1928-29-30. 
Following Mullins' talk an election of ofTicers was held In which these men were elected: 
President, JOHN PARRY, '49; Vice-President, I^\RRY "Moon" MULLINS, '31; Secreiar>-­Treasurer, PAUL HURD, '44, 
The Notre Dome Club of Eastern Kansas hod its second meeting on Universal Notre Dame Night, April 26, 1954. The meeting was attended by the following alumni: 
WALTER A. STEVENS, '06, C. GLYNN ERASER, '34, PAUL HURD, '44, JOHN A. PARRY, '49, THOMAS H. DEVLIN, '49, HAR­LAN DEVLIN, '51, JACK DEG/VN, '52, AUSTLV B. HOG.VN, '52. 
Tlic last two men on the above list were unex­pected guests at our meeting. They ore both lieutenants in tlie Air Force and are now sta­tioned at Forbes Air Force Base in Topeka. 
In addition to the alumni members, there were thirty associate members at the meeting. Presi­dent JACK PARRY opened the meeting with a talk on the origin of Universal Notre Dame Night and its purposes. He specifically mentioned that the theme for 1954 was the Distinguished Professors Program. This talk was followed by a movie whicli was sent to us by the University. Tho movie, "The University of Notre Dame— Today and Tomorrow," was thoroughly enjoyed by ever^'onc. 
Tlie closing item on the program was a thir-

FORT WAYNE—Robert Kearney (left), club president, presents 'Man of the Year' award to Roy £. Grimmer. 
00 ''Hi».>a»a^ 

KENTUCKY—Man-of-thc-Year Roger Huter (left). Father I^ouis Thornton, C.S.C, prin­cipal speaker, and Otto J. IVfileti, Jr., outgoing president. 
teen minute movie entitled "The Rock of Notre Dame," a graphic and interesting film hitting the highlights of the life of Knute Rockne. 
Elkhart 
Tlie annual business-dinner meeting of the Elkhart Chih was held on February 4. Officers for the coming year were elected as follows: 
ROBERT F. HOLTZ, '38, president; ^VLPHON­SE J. SPAHN, '48, vice-president; DANIEL P. WYNYKOSKY, '50, secretary-treasurer. 
WASHINGTON, D. C—Father Hesburgh 
and AVilliani D. Kavanaugh, *Man of the 
Year' recipient, at UND Night dinner in 
Sheraton Carhon Hotel. 

Movies of the 1953 football season were shown and JOHN CfVCKLEY of the campus office gave a brief talk about the University. Chairmen for the affair were LEON WOODFORD, '16, and 
A. J. DcDARIO, '29. 
About 40 members and guests of the Notre Dame Club of Elkhart County attended the din­ner held at the Empire Room of the Hotel Elk­hart on April 26 to obser\"c Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Pres. ROBERT HOLTZ gave a brief talk on the club's work in our county and to the work alicad. 
AUSTIN GILDE^V, committee president, intro­duced the speaker of the evening. 
The guest speaker, BILL FISCHER, the new llne coach at the University, commented on the promising prospects for the coming years in ffmtball. 
CHARLES OWENS, a member of the commit­tee, helped show movies of the runaway game 
NEW ORLEANS —Man-of-the-Year was Jules D. de la Vergnc (Ittt); Father Thornton was principal speaker; and Wil­liam Johnston was re-elected club president. 
Xotre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1954 23 

PITTSBURGH—Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Director of Notre Dame Foundation, was guest speaker. L. to R.: Father Vince Bretman, chaplain; Hon. David L. Lawrence, Mayor of Pittsburgh; Father Cav-anaugh; LauTence R. Smith, club president; Earl W. Brieger, president-elect; and John A. Briley, 'Man of the Year.' 
between Notre Dame and Southern California. Formal installation of new officers and directors for the coming year was fulfilled. Invocation was given by tile Rev. James Elliot of the St. Thomas Catliolic Churcli. 
New officers and directors for 1954 arc: President: ROBERT HOLTZ, '38; Xlce-Pres.: ALPHONSE J. SPAHN, '48; Secretary-Trcas.: DANIEL W-YNi'KOSKI, '30. 3-year terms: JA.MES CAVANAUGH and O. PROPST; 2-year terms: AUSTIN GILDEA and J.«IES SIMPSON; I-vcar term: CARL BURKET and LEON WOODFORD 
—Daniel WyTiykoski, Sec'y-Treas. 

El Paso 
New officers for the El Paso Club are as follows: 
President, WILLIAM E. FORD ,'43; Vice-President, RICHARD S. SMITH, '37; Secretary, ^VILLIAM G. BROCK, '49; Treasurer, GUS P. MOMSEN, JR., '49. 
The Notre Dame Club of EI Paso, Texas, com­bined the celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night with the regular business meeting by hold­ing a steak dinner at Frank Ardovino's Restaurant on Thursday evening, April 22. WILLIAM D. FORD, '43, president of tlie group, presided at a short business meeting. Highlight of the eve­ning was a talk delivered by JOHN N CACK­LEY, JR., managing editor of the Alumntu, on the recent progress of the University, and its plans for the immediate future. Details for the dinner-meeting were arranged by RICHARD E. SMITH, '37, vice-president of the club. ^lem­bers of the group present, with wives and/or dates included: GOR.\L\N BROCK, '49, HAL­LARD L. FOESTER, '44, JAMES R. FORD, '49, CHARLES I. COV, JR., "37, EDWARD HERSKOWITZ, '36, ROBERT E. 0'.MALLEY, '43, TIMOTHY B. ILXXRAHAN, '30, IRVING HERSKOWITZ, '36, JAI.ME -MORA, '43, JIM E. KOONS, '36, GUS P. -MOMSEN, JR., '49, GUS 
P. MO.MSEN, '20, REUBEN F. MOMSEN, '28, LARRY WEBBER, '50, THOMAS K WATKINS, '31, RAY WAGNER, '33, D.WID" L. SIPES, 
FORT WAYNE—Father Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., was guest speaker on UND night. L. to R.: William Middendorf, chairman; Father Moore; and Henry Hasley, toastmaster. 
'S3, H. R. HEICHELHEIM, JR., '33, and JOE KENNEDY, '32. —William Gorman Brock, '49, Sec'y-Treas. 
Erie 
A summary of events sponsored by the Erie 
Club in the past lew months. 
Last summer on July 20, a luncheon was en­
joyed by 25 alumni at Sugarts Cafe to discuss 
plans for the Annual Picnic On August I, new 
officers were elected. Then August 9 our Summer 
Picnic took place with an attendance of 170 alumni, 
students and friends, in spite of hea\'y rain. On 
Nov. 24 we held a "smoker" at Erie Brewing 
Company featuring football highlights and refresh­
ments with an attendance of 27 alumni. De c 8 
we celebrated Universal ND Communion Sunday 
with Mass and Communion at St. Peter's Cathe­
dral and breakfast at Howard Johnson Restaurant. 
Our speaker was Msgr. Watson, pastor of St 
Peter's Cathedral and his subject was "The Role 
of a Catholic Graduate in His Community." The 
talk was very inspiring. The attendance, 25 alum­
ni. Our Christmas Dance was held on Dec 28 at 
Dom's Auditorium. It was a beautiful aH'air and 
we received many compliments. Attendance—80 
couples. An autographed football was raffled off. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Erie, Penn­
sylvania, celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night 
on Wednesday, April 28, 1954, at the "Rathskel­
ler." 1953 Notre Dame football movies and group 
singing were enjoyed by all. The large turn­
out made Universal Notre Dame Night in Erie 
a huge success! 
—Thomas J. McCarthy, Sec'y. 

Fort Louderdale 
Representing practically all the available mem­bership in a small club, 30 club members and their guests gathered in the Governor's Club Hotel in Fort Lauderdale on April 26 to ob­serve Universal Noire Dame Night with a din­ner. A\1LLL\M R. DOOLEY, Placement Director of the University, was the speaker. BOB SCOTT. club president, presided at the dinner and GEORGE ERNST, secretan", and BOB GORE assisted with the arrangements. Bob, a member of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Associa­tion, was a generous host during the Placement Director's one-day stand in Ft. Lauderdale 
Fort Smith 
The Ft. Smith club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner meeting which was attended by alumni and guests. President VINCE NARISI preside at the affair. Campus speaker was John Cacklc>'. Tlie club is making plans to spon­sor a football trip this coming Fall. 
Fort Wayne 
The Ft, Wayne Club obser\'ed their third annual Day of Recollection on March 21 at tlic Sacred Heart Seminary. The Crosier Fathers were host and the Rev. FRED WESTENDORF, club chap­lain, was moderator. The committee consisted of ROY GRIM.MER, JR., '46, chairman, JOHN PALMER, '40, PAUL SCHIRMEYER, '48, and ROBERT KLINGENBERGER, '31. 
Grand Rapids 
Dean James E. McCarthy was featured speaker on UND Night. FRANCIS X. FALLON was chairman and LEO W. WALSH acted as toast­master. GEORGE JACKOBOICE received the Man of the Year award. Fr. SPEER STRAHAN, club chaplain, also was on the spcalcing program. About 150 alumni and guests attended tlie affair. New officers are as follows: E. JOSEPH MOORE, prcs.; FRANK FALLON, vice-pres.; FRANCIS 
J. GEARY, sec'y.; and CHARLES W. DUFFY, 
Green Boy 
About forty members of the Notre Dame Club of Green Bay and their wives met for cocktails and dinner in the main dining room of the 
Olson Transportation Company April 26 to 
celebrate Universal Notre Dame night. 
President WILLIAM F. KERWIN and Secre­
tary-Treasurer JACK A. VAINISX planned the 
program for the evening festivities. 
The Rev. JOHN FEENEY, '4S, addressed the 
audience on the subject: "Great Teaching." He 
said that in this era of American world lead­
ership, the nation desperately needs great teach­
ers to educate our young people for the respon­
sibility that has been thrust upon us. 
NORBERT J. CHRISTMAN, '32, prominent 
Green Bay businessman, was awarded the Notre 
Dame Man of the Vear scroll. Mr. Christman 
more than qualified for this award because of 
his Catholic principles, devotion to family, and 
untiring work toward civic welfare. 
The program closed ^vtth the showing of the 
1953 Notre Dame football hi-lites. 
—Jack Vainisi, SecV* 
Harrisburg 
UND Night was celebrated with a dinner meet­ing whidi featured an address by Prof. James A. Reyniers of Lobund. He described the work un­derway in the bacteriology labs on campus. ROBERT M. JOHNSON was toastmaster. Club officers arc: LOUIS O'BRIEN, pres.; CYRIL WIGGINS, vicc-pres.; EDWARD ECKENRODE, JR., treas.; and JOHN McNEILL, sec*y. About 60 alumni members and guests were present. 
Hawaii 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated on April 26, vfith 40 alumni and guests in attend­ance. Chib president THOMAS W. FLYNN had charge oC the program and talks were given by Father NORMAN JOHNSON, C.S.C, and PAT HENRY. 
Houston 
Tlie club held a luncheon in honor of Notre 
Dame students when they were home during the 
holidays. GEORGE McHALE, '23, was in charge 
of the arrangements and did an extremely fine 
job. Also, since the Alumnus last went to press, 
the club has held a Communion Breakfast and a 
Christmas Dance. 
The club sponsored a successful University Glee Club concert in February for the benefit of St. Michael's Church and netted in excess of $1,000 for their efforts. Father Tom Cemon of St. Michael's intends to use the money in help­ing to erect a new school. 
The club also held recently a ver>' successful retreat. 
Idaho 
The Notre Dame Club of Idaho held its 1954 UND Night celebration at the Valencia Dining Room, Boise, on Saturday, April 24, with 27 people attending and Rev. ROBERT H. SWLE­NEY, C.S.C., director of the University of Port­land Foundation as guest speaker. 
In his second apearance before the Idaho UND Night gathering in as many years Father Sweeney delivered another excellent address stressing the immediate aims of the Notre Dame Foundation in its long range program to obtain great scholars for Notre Dame. Father described a great scholar as one who knows truth when he sees it, considers teaching of basic truths his primary purpose in instructing students to learn and under­stand them in college, and consequently to use these truths to properly evaluate situations in real life. Father Sweeney told of some of the more pressing problems being faced today by private schools and spoke of Christian education in general. 
A surprise guest for the evening was R. CON­ROY SCOGGINS, '24, Houston, Texas, past National President of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, and presently Supreme National Di­rector of the Knights of Columbus, ifr. Scrog-gins was in Boise to address the Idolio Knights of Columbus at their 7th Annual Holy Communion Rally the following day, and by this coincidence we had the pleasure of his company. 
Newcomer MIKE FRA^VLEY and his wife ivcrc welcomed into the Idalto Club having been transferred to Boise from California with the National Cash Register Company. 
JOE NETTLETON, '29, of Murphy, Idaho, extended his kind hospitality for the Club's siun­mer outing to be held once again at Silver City, 
famous Idaho Ghost Town. The outing has been 
set for Sun., July 23, with the highlight to be 
another great charcoal broiled steak fry "a la 
Ncttleton". with FRANCIS NEITZEL, '23, per­
forming the cooking honors, —Phil Shea 
Indianapolis 
PATRICK J. FISHER, (LL.B., '37), always 
ready with his time and effort for a Notre Dame 
cause, was unanimously cliosen as the Indian­
apolis Notre Dame Alumni Club's "Man of the 
Year" at the club's annual Universal Notre 
Dame Night celebration April 27. 
^fore than 210 alumni, wives and guests turned 
up at the Indianapolis Athletic Club to learn 
of the selection and to hear an address bv the 
Rev. EDMUND P. JOYCE, CSC. , executive 
vice president of the university. 
Pat Fisher, Indianapolis attorney, father of 
six children and an exemplary Catholic, was 
cited by the retiring club president, JOSEPH 
GILLESPIE '41, for the tremendous work he 
has done for the local alumni club and the uni­
versity. 
Election of officers for the following year 
found JOHN R. WELCH, '47, as president; 
DONALD JOE FITZGERALD, '49, rice-president; 
LAWRENCE TURNER, JR., LL.B., '48, secre­
tary and JOSEPH McNAMARA, '47, treasurer. 
Two new directors are JOHN C. O'CONNOR, 
LL.B., '40, and DAVID J. FOX, MO. 
Father Joyce reviewed the tremendous building outlay at Notre Dame over the past several years and said the university has high hopes of building an even greater faculty. 
—Larr>* Connor 
Jackson 
The recently organized Notre Dame Club of Jackson has elected the following officers: BLAIR McGOWAN, '43, president; HOWARD ^VURTH, '40, vice-president; EDWARD COLBERT, '41, treasurer; and JOHN LINDBERG, *50, secretary. 
UND Night was observed on Jfay 3 when JOHN CACKLEY was present from the campus to discuss the University's development program with the members. 
Joliet 
Edward Krause, ND's director of athletics, was featured speaker at the club's UND Night celebration. Other guests included Johnny Latt­ner. Bill Wightkin, Jerr>- Groom among many former Irish athletic stars. 
Kalamazoo 
Club President JAMES NL\HONEY welcomed 130 alumni, wives and friends to the first Uni­versal Notre Dame Night to be held in Kala­mazoo. The recently formed Battle Creek Club joined in the celebration by having appnudnute­ly 20 representatives present including their officers. Dr. GEORGE McMORROW, acting as Master of Ceremonies, made a few comments on the greatness of Notre Dame's past and the teaching field, he also reminded the audience that this was the 2Dth anniversary year for Father TOM BRENNAN and that he said his first Mass in St. Augustine's Church. Father Tom Brennan gave a short, but fine, talk. on great teachers and ideals taught at Notre Dame, and he was also very happy to see so many of the boys from his former classes. 

Announcement was made at this time that prep­arations were under way for a joint Kalamazoo and Battle Greek Golf Day at the Gull Lake Country Club this summer. 
—Phillip J. Shidds 

Kansas City 
The club had a retreat on February 26-28 at the Gethsemane Retreat House, Kansas City, Mo. Events that have been held since the Alumnus last went to press include a dance and luncheon during the holidays. 
The new officers for 1954 of the Auxiliary are as follows: Mrs. WILLLUf V. McLEESE, presi­dent; Mrs. J. CLINTON MEUNIER, vice-presi­dent and membership chairman; Mrs. VICTOR 
F. WASLESKI, recording secretary; Mrs. THOM­AS J. TOBIN, JR., corresponding secretary; Mn. EUGENE H. VANDEN BOOM, JR., treasurer; and Mrs. NORMAN M. BOWES, auditor and telephone co-chairman. 
Members of the board include: Mrs. J. B. SHAUGHNESSY, Mrs. C. H. STEVINSON, Mrs. 
R. P. PENDERGAST, Mrs. J. B. FINUCANE, Mrs. C. CRAIG WHITAKER, Mrs. SAMUEL E. RICHARDS. Mrs. GEORGE J. McLINEY, Mrs. 
M. B. SCHWEIGER, Mrs. T. F. 0'5«ALLEY, Mrs. R. J. FARRELL. Mrs. W. F. McNAMARA and Mrs. J. E. KOPP. 
Club members were pleased and proud to be hosts to the President of the University of Notre Dame, Father THEODORE M. HESBURGH, G.S.C., and ART HALEY, Director of PubUc Relations, on their visit to Kansas City, Afarch 1st. A luncheon for the Superintendent of SchooU from the Greater Kansas City area together with the Principals of the various individtuil schools and their advisor counselors heard Father Hcsburgh speak on Notre Dame University's direction in Education towards the development of the Whole Man. This hmcheon was given by the Notre Dame Club of Kansas City Scholar­ship Committee headed by C. CRAIG WIflT-AKER, Chairman, to announce the forthcoming Scholarship of sending a boy to Notre Dame on a $1,600 award over a 4 year period, under the name of WILLLVM ROCKHILL NELSON Schol­arship who was the founder of the Kansas City Star newspaper, former student at the University 
LOS ANGELES—UND Night guests included, L. to R.; (top row) Dr. Leo Tui^eon, club president; and Brother Charles; (bottom row) Father John Lynch, C^.C, Mr. John Kirby, Father AVilliam Robinson, C.S.C., Mrs, Turgeon, Afr. Frank Ray, Rt. Rev. Afsgr. Patrick Dignan and Hon. Joseph Scott. 
and a recipient of an Honorarv* Degree conferred speaker at the club's celebration of UND Night Vice-President, WILLIAM I. LYNCH, '37, 310 In 1911. on .April 28. Floyd A%'enue, Rome, New York. 
On April 29lh, the Kansas City Notre Dame Sec Treas., ROBERT V. SCHAFER, '48, 1208 Club was honored with the presence of FATHER Conkling Ave., Utica, Netv York. MENDEZ, Director of Scholarship and Awards 
Miami 
for the University, who was guest speaker for our Universal Notre Danic Night program. 
WILLIAM R. DOOLEY, Placement Director of Monroe the University, was tlic chief speaker as the 
Kentucky 
The celebration of UND Night, April 26, suc­cessfully brought to a close the 31st year of our Kentucky Chib's existence. It was a gala afTair highlighted by an address by Father Louis 
J. Thornton, Director of Admbsions at tlic University. 
The Annual Notre Danie Man of the Year award was presented lo ROGER J. HUTER, Foundation Governor of Kentucky and former club president, in recognition of his work on the Notre Danic Foundation, his many club activ­ities and his all-around loyalty and devotion to Notre Dame. 
The newly elected club officers who were in­troduced on UND NiRht arc: J. L. "BUD" WILLENBRINK, M7, president; JOHN B.VNNON, *32, first vice-president; CHARLES MARGUET, ^26, second vice-president; PAUL MALONEY, '52, sccretar>-; JACK BARRETT, '47, treasurer; JOE HARMON, '25, scholarship; BILL PALMER, '48, scliolarship. 
The arrangements for UND Night were under the direction of OSa\R VAN ALLMEN, JR., who did a magnificent job 
-k)ito J. Mileti, Jr. 

Los Angeles 
The Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles ob­scr\'cd Universal Notre Dame Night at a dinner meeting held at the Los Angeles Breakfast Club. The program, arranged by Co-Clialrmen CHARLES MURPHY, '28, and CHARLES GASS, '30, had Mr. Frank Fay as master of ceremonies and in­cluded interesting talks by Rev. W. H. ROBIN­SON, C.S.C., Mr. John Kirby, and Rt. Rev. Msgr. Patrick J. Dignan, the Superintendent of Scliools for the Archdiocese of Los Angeles. Mr, Kirby was a Vice President of Grace and Company for many years and now is working for the Family Theater, having donated a year of service to Father Pej-ton's work. 
New officers of the Los Angeles Club rcccntlv elected arc: LEO V. TURGEON, M.D., '42, president; CHARLES S. MURPHY. '28, first vice president; EDMOND SHEERAN, 31, second vice president; EUGENE C. CALHOUN. '33, secre­tary-treasurer. 
Memphis 
The Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., director of admissions at Notre Dame, was featured 

club observed Universal Notre Dame Night on 
.\pril 27 with a dinner in the Shclborne Hotel, 
Miami Beacli. EDWARD A. KELLY, club presi­
dent, presided. I. I. PROBST was the toast­
master. 
Rt. Rev. Msgr. WILLLVM BARRY, LL.D , '46, of Miami Beach, a special friend of tlie Uni­versity and of the club, was present for the dinner and spoke briefly. The club's Man of the Year award was presented to JEROME P. HOL­LAND. To Mrs. Waller D. Rowlands the club presented a special memorial award in honor of her late husband, long a devoted and generous member of the club and a constant participant in University affairs. 
Michigan City 
The following are tlic names of tlie nciv ofnccrs: Prcs., j . E.\L\IErr MILLER; Vlcc-Prcs., ROBERT N SCHIEL; Treas., WALTER A. TIMM; Sec'y!, FR.\NCIS G. FEDDER; Bd. Dir., Dr. ROBERT J. FROST. 
After the election of officers, discussion was had as to the possibility of 100 per cent partici­pation in the University Foundation Fund by the club members. Evcr>' effort is being made by the club to cooperate witli JOHN P. DONNELLY, local Foimdation Chairman for this goal. Tlie club voted the contribution of $100 to tlic Uni­versity Foundation, in addition tu the individual contributions. 
—Francis G. Fcdder, Sec'y. 

Mid-Hudson Valley 
Tlic club's observance of Universal Notre Dame Night featured Ed Krause as principal speaker, on April 27th. 
Milwaukee 
The Milwaukee Club's celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night was featured by an address given by the Rev. THOMAS BRENNAN. CS.C. of Notre Dame. 
Mohawk Valley 
New officcra elected recently for the ensuing vear to be installed on May 8tli as as follou-s: 
• President, ^VNTHONY J. GIRUIZZI, '36, 201 Post OfTice Building, Ulica, Neiv Yort. 
CENTRAL NT;W YORK—Attending UND Night dinner were, L. to R.: E. W. Kencfalie; Mrs. Kenefake, president of newly-formed Ladies' Auxiliary; Mrs. Baldingcr; Dean Lawrence 
H. Baldingcr, of Notre Dame's College of Science and guest speaker from canipus; Philip G. Kclley, club president; and Dr. Thomas E. Snyder, chairman of UND Night 
Prof. THO.MAS BRODEN of the ND College of Law faculty was featured speaker at the club's UND Night celebration. CH,\RLES COLD­EN was recently elected president. 
Muskegon 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated \ntU a talk by JOHNN*Y JORDAN, basketball coach at Nolro Dame. GEORGE LUDWIG re­ceived the Man of the Year award. GEORGE CANNON, JR., club president, was master of ceremonies. Co-chairmen for the event included Jx\MES PRICE and RICH/VRD Mi\SON while JOSEPH KEUSCH had charge of arrangements at Cottage Inn. 
New officers for the coming year are: JAMES PRICE, president; RICHARD M^VSON, vice-president; JOSEPH KEUSCH, treasurer; and LEO LINCK. secretary-. 
Naugatuek Valley 
Members of the Naugatuek Valley club as­sembled with alumni of the other tliree state clubs for a big celebration of UND Night on April . 25 at Cheshire. Tlic committee con­sfated of \MLL1A.M MURRAY, general cliair­man; and JAMES SEIGLIONA, JAMES &\R­NEY, JIM FL,U1ERTY, JACK WARNER, JR.. JOSEPH BURNS and BOB HALPIN 
New Haven 
The recently organized Notre Dame Club of New Haven elected the following officers: ROB­ERT HALPIN, '34, president, Bethany; ALBERT LAWTON, '35, 1st vice-president, Hamden; Dr. JOSEPH CLIFFORD, '38, 2nd vice-president, Hamden; and JOSEPH P. BURNS, '34, secre­lar>--treasurer. New Haven. Directors of the club are: JOHN H. WARNER, '43, LA^VRENCE CULLINEY, '28, JOHN O'NEILL, '44, ED BYRNE, '26, WILLIAM L. PIED.MONT, "39, and JOHN ZDANOWICZ, '36. 
Tlie club joined with other state clubs in cele­brating Universal Notre Dame Night. 
New Jersey 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held on April 26 with EDWARD W. KR,VUSE, Director of Athletics, and JOHN LAW, 1929 football cap­tain, as guest speakers. JACK L<\\^LLE, '28, %%*as toastmaster of the affair. Football movies of tlie 1953 games were shown. JOE ABBOTT, '30, and Dr. P. M. PROVISSIERO, '30, ar­ranged the event. 
New Mexico 
The club celebrated UND Night with a dinner for alumni and guests /Vbout 60 people at­tended tlic affair. CECIL JORDAN, club presi­dent, was in charge of tlie program. Talks ivere given by Frs. Butler and Savard, and John Cacklcy from the Alumni Office. 
New Orleans 
TIic clubs' UND Night celebration was fea­tured by a talk given by Fatlicr Louis J. Thorn­ton, CS.C , Director of Admissions at Notre Dame. JULES K. de la VERGNE received the >lan of the Year award. Officers for the coming year will be: BILL JOHNSTON. PETE HIL­BERT and BILL RED^L\NN all re-elected to the offices of president, \-ice-prcs., and secretary; and JIM SMITH has been named as treasurer. One of the guests at the dinner was Andy Pil­ney, former Irish backfield star and now head coach at Tulane. 
—Wm. Redmann. Sec'y­

Group of guests at special dinner held in Father John J. Cavanaugh's honor and given by 
C. M. Verbiest, Notre Dame Foundation Governor in Michigan, and other friends of the University on April 6 in Detroit. L. to R.: Curtis Lyman Moody, plant manager, U. S. Rubber Co.; John R. Walsh, vice-president. National Bank of Detroit; Franklin P. Williams, president S. S. Kresgc Co.; M. J. Hutchinson, vice-president. Arrow Aluminum Co.; Father Cavanaugh; Alfred T. Williams, vice-president, Nat. Bank of Detroit; and Carl J. Henrich, assistant vice-president, Nat. Bank of Detroit. About 60 guests attended the dinner meeting. 
New York City 
The new officers for 1954 arc as follows: JASiiS J. CL^TJES, JR., '45, president; HER­BERT P. GIORGIO, '32, executive vice-president; JAMES G. McGOLDRICK, *39, vice-president; LOUIS J. BURNS, '49, vice-president; JOHN S. MacCAULEY, '41, vice-president; EDW.VRD BECKMAN, M6, vice-president; ANTHONY F. BARLEY, JR., '44, secretary; WILLIAM JOHN­SON, *43, assistant secretary; FRANCIS J. CON­FORTI, '43, treasurer.; Rev. BERNARD E. RAN­SING, C.S.C., chaplain. 
The Notre Dame Club of New York held its annual UND night celebration on Wednesday evening, April 28tli., at the New York Athletic Club. Appro.ximately two-hundred seventy-five members and tlieir guests attended. Under the co-chairmanship of BILL FALLON and HARRY WALTERS, the committee presented an out­standing program which was headed by ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE, Director of Athletics at the University of Notre Dame. Mr. Krause spoke on the newly adopted Distinguished Professors Program and in behalf of the Notre Dame Founda­tion. He also gave a brief summarj* on the Athletic program at the University and on the prospects for the coming 1954-55 athletic sea­sons. Following his talk Ed entertained questions from the floor, the majority of which concerned the outlook for the 1954 football season, the progress of the new Head Coach TERRY BREN­NAN and the current standing of tlie University in relation to the televising of games. At the end of this question and ans%ver period Mr Krause was given a rousing and enthusiastic round of applause in genuine appreciation of his visit. Ed's talk was the high point of a ver>- Interest­ing and entertaining evening. 
Northern California 
The Northern California Club had the honor of a visit from the Rev. THEODORE M. HES­BURGH, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, on ^larcl) 6. A dinner In his honor was held at the Fairmont Hotel, San Francisco. 
Nortli Florida 
Recently reorganized, the club had Its first annual observance of Universal Notre Dame Night when it met for cocktails and dinner on April 28 in the Officers* Club at tlie Naval Mr Station, Jacksonville. Sixty persons, including a large pro­portion of the club's membership, were present. 
WILLIAM R. DOOLEY, Placement Director of the University,. gave the principal talk of the evening. He was Introduced by JOHN LANAH.AN. 
Another speaker was Alost Rev. Thomas J. Mc-
Donough, of Jacksonville Beacli, who is auxiliary 
Bishop of St. Augustine. LESTER AV. FOLEY, 
Jacksonville, received the club's first annual Man 
of the Year award. 
FRED RAHAIM, club president, presided at the 

dinner and was in charge of arrangements, with 
special assistance from Lt. Cmdr. DICK DONA­
HUE, of the Naval Air Station who arranged 
for the use of the Officer's Club. FRITZ BAU­
MER, BOB COYLE and LOU FINSKE also lent 
a spcaal hand Lou and AVINK WINGERTER, 
'26, were special hosts to the visiting placement 
director. 
Ohio Valley 
WILLIAM YAEGER, '42, Wheeling, was honor­

ed as "Notre Dame Man of the Year" at the 
Universal Notre Dame Night Observance of the 
Ohio Valley Notre Dame Club April 23 in 
Wheeling. 
Yaeger, known to all members as the "work­

horse" of the club, was awarded a scroll emble­
matic of his achievement by retiring club presi­
dent, GEORGE SARCUS, '28. Yacgcr was se­
lected by a committee of three. 
New officers for the coming years, elected at a previous meeting, were also installed at the UND Night. They arc RUSSELL RICKUS, 'SI, president; ROBERT SINC/VVICH, '50, vice-presi­dent, and JAMES HAR/\NZO, '52, secretar>-­treasurer. 
Following a tasty New York "I-steak" dinner, members, their wives, and guests enjoyed viewing the Notre Dame football highlights of 1933 and then heard H.\RRY BUCH, a graduate law stu­dent at ND, speak interestingly on this year's football prospects and the new Irish coach, TERRY BRENN.VN. 
Tentative plans were made for an outdoor meeting during the early part of August to which members, their wives, and guests will be in­vited. The committee nzuned to handle arrange­ments are Robert Sincavlcli, chairman; James Haranzo, co-cliairman, Robtrt Grifiith, William Yaeger, and Ru.s.si'Jl RIckus. 
Oklahoma City 
TIic Oklahoma City Club had a vcr>* success­ful Universal Notre Dame Night banquet on April 28 in the home of our Bishop, Most Rev. EUGENE J. McGUINNESS. 
President ED KAVvVNAUGH, '38, presented the club's Man of the Year award to Bishop Mc-Guinness at the banquet Tlie Bishop, who has done an outstanding job building the Church in Oklahoma, proudly claims membership in Notre Dame's s>'nthetic alumnt for lo these many years. Tlie good will and more tangible help he has ^ven have been a big factor in getting the local club reactivated In the past few years. 
Rev. ALFRED MENDEZ, C.S.C., represented the university In a more than suitable manner. His very fine talk left you with the feeling that this was just what a speaker should say on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. 
A surprise feature was the announcement of a gift to the Foundation from Rev. URBAN Dc-HASQUE, one of the first priests in the Okla­homa Diocese. Father DcHasque holds an honor­ary degree from the university. The evening's program was topped off with a showing of the football highlights from last season. 
DICK HOFF, '32, xvas chairman of the affair. Guests, In addition to the club members, num­bering over 100 Included many old friends of the university, and by the time the program had ended some new friends, too. 
Oregon 
Tlie Oregon club was honored with the visit of FATHER HESBURGH on his Western "get acquainted" trip. A banquet on Monday, March 8 at the Benson Hotel was attended by more than 200 members of the club and their frienils. 
The Most Rev. Archbishop Edward D. Ho­ward, D.D., joined in honoring Father Hes-burgh giving the invocation at tlie banquet. ^layor and Mrs. Fred L. Peterson were also In attend­ance. WILLIAAf SCHMITT, '10 introduced Father Hcsburgh and PHIL BERTHUUME, '28, was the toastm aster. 
Earlier Monday Father Hesburgh and ART HALEY were guests of Oregon's Governor Paul 
L. Patterson for a luncheon In Salem. Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated April 26 at the Tap Room of the Blitz Welnhard Brewery. 
The Oregon Club held Its annual Universal Notre Dame Night at the Blitz Weinhard Brew­ery. Chairman for the event was PETE TRIX­LER, '48, 
PETE SANDROCK, '39, announced the election of the following officers: BILL AIEAGHER, '48, president; JIM MALETIS, '50, vice-president; NEIL RUNNING, '51, secretary; PETE TRK­LER, '48, treasurer; Dr. RALPH PRAGG, '27, director for one year. 
Philadelphia 
New ofHcers Tor 1954 recently elected are as follows: JACK DEMFSEY, '49, president; CHAR­LEY McKINNEY, '29, vice-president; JOHN NEESON, '35, treasurer; JOHN VOIT, '51, sec­retary; JOHN KENNEY, '33, ass't. treasurer; BILL BURNS, '40, ass't. secretary. 
Also, the following members were elected to the Board of Governors for a t%vo-year term: BILL BURNS, CHARLES CONLEY, '33; JOE MAHONEY, '41, WALT RIDLEY, '31, and JOHN voir . They will join the other members of the board who are serving their second year including JACK DE.MPSEY, JOE WACKERMAN, '35, LOU ALAAUN, '37, JOHN NEESON and CHARLEY McKINNEY. 
At the regular monthly meeting on February 16 tlie Highlights of 1953 football fihn was shown. 
The Rev. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, CS.C. was guest speaker of the club's Universal Notre Dame Night event on April 27. 
Phoenix 
The club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night on April 24 with a dinner meeting for alumnt and guests. Retiring club president REGIS LYNSKEY was in charge of the program. About 60 attended the event. Campus representative \vas John Cacklcy from the Alumni Office. A brief talk was also given by Robert Kendall, Foundation city chairman. 
Pittsburgh 
Father JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., Direc­tor of the Notre Dame Foundation, was the club's guest speaker on UND Night, April 26, at the Hotel Schenley. Other guests Included Ilbgr. Thomas J. Qulgley, Superintendent of Parochial Sdiools in the Pittsburgh Diocese, Msgr. Nicholas 
T. Elko, Vicar General of Byzantine Catholic Diocese, and ^fayor David L. Lawrence of the Cit>- of Pittsburgh. Judge HUGH BOYLE, *24. was cliairman of the affair and the Man-of-the-
Netrt Dajiu Mummu, May-Jwe, 1954 27 

^iE\V ORLEANS—Father Loub J. Thornton, C.S.C., was featured speaker at the dub's UND Night dinner. 
Year award was presented to JOHN BRILEY, 
•23, by Fatlier \1tiCX. BRENNAN. 
S^ew ofTiccrs who assumed their duties on UND Night are: EARL W. BRIEGER, '31, president; LEO J. BURBY, '42, vice-president; THOMAS 
G. GILLESPIE, '39, secrelarj-; and JAMES E. McNULTY, '49, treasurer. New governors lor a Xour-year term are: JOHN B. REARDON, '22, ALEX F. LESKO, '49, EUGENE J. COYNE, '33, and WALTER C. .MONACELLI, '38. 
Racine-Kenosha 
The Racine-Kcnoslia alumni recently organized 
and elected the following members as ofHcers; 
JAMES RICE, '42, president; JOHN BRANNON, 
'28. vice-president; JOSEPH CHANIGA, '51, sec­
rctar>--trc3surcr. 
The club's initial meeting was a Communion 
Breakfast in Kenosha. DON KOT2, *43, of Ken­
osha, and DICK MURPHY, '50, of Racine, were 
instrumental in advancing the club's organizational 
plan. 
The club sponsored Universal Notre Dame Night 
with a special meeting and preceoted the Man­
of-thc-Ycar award to ROBERT L. HAAHLTON, 
*34. 
Joe Chanjga, Sec*y-Trea5. 

Rhode Island 
JAMES G. McGOLDRICK, president of the Notre Dame Ahmini Association, was feattired speaker at the club's observance of Universal Notre Dame Night in Providence. 
Rochester 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Rochester celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night on April 27th., with a dinner dance at the Oak Hill Country Club. In keeping with the theme of Universal Notre Dame Night "Great Teaching," the club was priWleged to have as guest speakers Dr. LAWRENCE H. BALDINGER. Dean of the College of Science, University of Notre Dame; Msgr. Joseph E. Grady, \-icc-Rector of St. Ber­nard's Seminary, Rochester, N. Y.; and Rev. James R. Bamett, Rector of the new McQuaid Jesuit High School here in Rochester, N. Y. Chairman for the affair was RICHARD T. SUL-LtVAN. Officers for the coming year were intro­duced. They arc ROBERT C. ODENBACH, President; LEO L. AVESLEY, Vice-President; ROB­ERT SKIPWORTH, Secretary-; and JACK WHEELER, treasurer. The toastmaster for the afltair was GERALD FLYNN. 
—^John F. Hcagney 

Rockford 
The charter meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Rockford was held Wednesday, February lOth, in the Junior Ballroom of the Faust Hotel, Rockford. Approximately 30 alumni and 175 as­sociate members were in attendance. The consti­tution of the organization was approved, and the following were elected as officers and directors: 
E. M. (MIKE) LORDEN, '24, president; JOHN 
E. SULLIVAN, '49, vice-president; THOMAS A. 
KEEG.\N, '30, secretary-; HAROLD J. O'CON­
NOR, '32, treasurer. 
Directors: Judge ALBERT S. O'SULLH^AN, 

'18; FRANK SWEENEY, '19; ROBERT J. DOR­
AN, '26; ROBERT F. DOYLE, '38; JOHN K. 
AVAHL, '43. 
The second meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Rockford was Iield on Tuesday, March 30th, in tlic Hospitality Room of the Lorden Distribut­ing Company. Tlic meeting was in tlie nature of a smoker, and the films of campus life at Notre Dame and "A Day in the Life of a Stu­dent" were shown followed by the colored movie highlights of the Detroit Lions-Clcveland Browns championship football game. These films were presented by Don Kindt, halfback of the Chicago Bears, who is in the public relations department of the Miller Brewing Company. Don entertained the group with interesting experiences he has encountered in his football career. REX EN­RIGHT, now coach of South Carolina U., and former Irish grid great, also spoke on tlic pro­gram. Free refeshments were scr\"ed, and as an attendance prize, two tickets to a Notre Dame game were given. 
The next meeting of the Club was the ob­servance of Universal Notre Dame Night held at the Faust Hotel, April 28th, and our speaker was Assistant Dean Brodenck of the Notre Dame law school. 
—Jim Dunn 

Rock River Valley 
The Notre Dame Club of Rock River Valley obser\*ed Universal Notre Dame Night, Tuesday, April 27, 1954 at the Plum Hollow Country Club, DLcon, Illinois. The speaker was John Brodenck, Assistant Dean of the Notre Dame La%v Scliool. 
Our annual scholarship to the University will be awarded to Gerald Francis Saucr, Oregon, Illinois. Gerald ranks second in his class and desires to study prc-medicine at the University. 
The officers for the coming year are as follows: Pres., DONALD G. DEWEY, Sterling, Illinois; Wce-prcs., PAUL J. FRY, Duon, Illinois Scc'y., ROBERT McDONNELL, StcrUng, Illinois; Treas., RAY M. DeCOURCEY, Roclielle, Illinois. Board of Directors: EDWARD M. SULLIVAN, Amboy, Illinois; JOSEPH H. BITTORF, Sterling, Illinois; GERALD JONES, DLxon, Illinois. 
—Donald G. Dewey, Sec'y 

Saginaw Valley 
The club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner meeting on April 26 
San Antonio 
SLxty persons comprising alumni, their wives, and friends of the Univ'ersity attended the ND Alumni Club of San Antonio's obser\-ance of the 31st Annual Universal Notre Dame Night April 26 at Green Pastures restaurant. The dinner was preceded by a cocktail hour 
Rev. ALFRED F. MENDEZ, C.S.C,, was prin­cipal speaker, marking the first time a Univer­sity official has \'isited San Antonio for this event. Father Mendez emphasized the Foundation's reliance on alumni support for the continuing program of maintaining the position of pre-emi­nence among universities in the Catliolic educa­
tional ^ystem. 
Newly appointed Club Chaplain, Rev. ARMAND 
MATTHEV.', O.M.I., presented the Man of tlie 
Year award to President ILVLPH T. STRUHS. 
The selection was made by a committee consist­
ing of ED J. COLLINS, E. J. HEINZ, and 
JOSEPH C. REPINE. 
A'isiting alumni were Fathers EUGENE DORE 
and HENRY GUESS of Austin and JOHN 
BUCKLEY, with Mrs. Buckley, from Midland. 
Other guests included Rev. ALEX/VNDER 
WANGLER, editor of the Alamo Renter, and a 
number of friends of Father Mendez from Austin 
and Shiner, Texas. 
Son Diego 
We held our annual elections on March 23 at the home of PHIL P. >L\RTIN. Results: Jx\CK J McCLAREN, re-elected president; JERRY G. 
R. BILL elected vice-president; R. JERRY Mc-CARTY, secretary-treasurer; UGO D. ROSSI and ^VALT J. GEUDTNER, board of directors. The board of directors also consists of Rev. Msgr. FRANCIS C OTT, Chaplain. ^VIN S. DAY, past president, and the olTicers. 
Rev. Msgr. Francis C. Ott was selected as the Notre Dame Man of the Year in San Diego. He is a Notre Dame alumnus and pastor of Blessed Sacrament parish in San Diego. 
On Monday night, April 26, the San Diego Alumni Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner meeting held at the Marlin Inn, located on beautiful San Diego Bay. 
^Ve were most fortunate and honored to have with us as principal speaker of the evening, Mr JOHN N. CACKLEY, JR., of the Alumni Office who gave us a very entertaining and enlighten­ing talk on the scientific, cultural and academic achievements of the University over the past years and the ambitious program which has been mapped out for the future. We all felt a warm glow of pride as wc had pointed out to us the tremendous strides that have been made in such a comparatively short time and ' the realistic program that lies ahead. 
Other entertainment of the evening consisted of wewing the pictures of Maryland's "Big Game" of the year. Final score—Notre Dame 14, Io\>fa 14. 
A most enthusiastic group spent a very en­lightening and enjo\-able evening. In San Diego, Universal Notre Dame Night was a tremendous 
—Jack McCIaren, Pres. 

Santa Fe 
Alumni and friends gathered for an obser^ \-ancc of UND Night. Talks were given by Sam Adclo, Bill W€>ods and John Cackley from the Alumni Office. AL ORTIZ u-as in charge of the program and made arrangements for the affair. Movies of tlie Iowa game also were shou'n. 
Schenectady 
Universal Notre Dame Night was observed with a dinner meeting featuring Dr. LAWRENCE BALDINGER, dean of Notre Dame's College of Science, as guest speaker. 
Southern Colorado 
Oa April 26 the club met celebrating Uni­
versal Notre Dame Night. The meeting was held 
at the Minncqua Club in Pueblo. Arrangements 
were made by JACK THOMAS and AURION 
MAURELLO from Pueblo. 
Following dinner a talk was given by Rev. 
Elwood C. Voss, Superintendent of Catholic High 
In Pueblo. Installation of officers was as fol­
lows: president, WILLUM J. DONELAN, JR., 
'29, rc-clcclcd; x-ice president, A. JACK THOM­
AS, '49; sccretar>--lrcasurer, JAMES P. AB­
BOT, '47. 
\Vc were happy to have as our guest Dick 
Armstrong (son of Jim Armstrong of the Alumni 
Office) presently stationed at Camp Carson. 
—^James P. Abbott, Sec'y 
South Jersey 
SL\ty persons gathered at Kenney's Restaurant 
in Camden, on Tuesday evening, April 27th, to 
join in the Notre Dame Club of South Jersey's 
celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night. TTie 
principal speaker was Prof. JAMES ARTHUR 
REYNIERS, head of Lobund Institute- Club 
President J/VMES A. WEBB, '48, handled the 
introductions and the Hon. William F. Hyland, 
member of the N. J. State Assembly, acted as 
loastmasicr. The Rev. KE\aN B. 0'DOHERT\', 
'43, and the Rev. JOSEPH M. HAYDEN, '44, 
club cliaplain, were in attendance. 
The Notre Darae Man of the Year award 
was presented to JOHN C. MURPHY, '49, by 
MATT J. a\MPANELL.\, '49, chib secretary 
and last year's recipient of the award. 
Other Alumni in attendance were: GLYNDON 
HIPSKIND, '50, CHARLES Mca\FFERTY, JOHN 
J. O'BRIEN, '40. MATHEW J. SIEDLECKI, '49, Dr. THOMAS O'CONNELL. Murphy and O'Brien were co-chairmen for the affair. 
FRANK E. VnrORI , '49, and Miss Dorothy Ploucher of Philadelphia were married on April 24, at St. John's Church, Collingswood, N. J. 
The alumni club held a meeting at which time the election results were announced as follows: President, J/\MES A. \VEBB, '48; Vice-pres., JOHN 
J. O'BRIEN, '40; Secrctary-treas.. MATT J. CAMP/VNELLA, '49, 
The club observed a Communion Breakfast in commemoration of Knute Rockne on Sunday, March 28. Members received Holy Communion at the eight o'clock Mass at St. Joseph's Church in Camden and an informal breakfast was held after Mass. 
Southwest. Connecticut 

New ofHccrs recently elected are: WILLIAM -MULRENAN, '37, president, Fairfield; EDWARD GANNON, '37, \ice-presidcnt, Weston; NEIL KELLY, '48, secretary, Bridgeport; and ROBERT TEWKSBURY, '48, treasurer, Bridgeport. All of the state clubs assembled on April 23 for Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. 
Spokane 
FRiVNK HERRON, class '35, president of the Eastern Washington Alumni association, Spokane, Washington, presented Man of the Year award to Dr. JOHN R. TOBIN, JR., '38. The banquet meeting was held at the Dessert Hotel, Monday, April 26th. 
Speaker for the evening was Raymond F. Kelly, Superior Court Judge and a graduate of the law school at Gonzaga University-, Spok­ane. 
Officers elected for 1955: President, Dr. ROB­ERT MAHAR, '35; Vice-pres., ROBERT L. ROTCHFORD, '49; Secretary, JAMES PRES­LEY, '49; Treasurer, EDWARD J. BETHKE, '28 
—Frank Herron 
St. Joseph Valley 

The club held the annual Rockne Memorial Breakfast ^vith a Mass in Dillon Hall followed by breakfast in the Faculty Dining Hall. Club president HARRY KOEHLER, '37, introduced the \'anous speakers at the head table including CHARLES "CHUCK" COLLINS, a member of the 1924 team. Father THOMAS BRENNAN and Coach TERRY BRENNAN. 
The largest attendance in recent years, ap­
proximately 200, was at the Mass and breakfast. 
BILL GIBBONS, '38, was chairman of the affair. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held April 26th with a dinner in the Morris Inn followed by a tour of the art gallery in the O'Shaugh­nessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts. Approxi­mately 145 members and their wives attended. The Notre Dame Man of the Year Award was presented to BERNARD J. VOLL, honoring his many and varied activities in behalf of the club and the community. 
FRANK MILES, the newly elected Honorary President, installed the new officers for the vcar as follows: JOSEPH HANNAN, president; ROB­ERT L. LEHM.VN, vice-president; JERRY HIC­KEY, treasurer; and WILLLVM GIBBONS, sec­retar>'. 
St. Louis 
The 3Ist Annual Universal Notre Dame Night 
was celebrated in St. Louis, with Father Joyce, 
Executive Vice-President of the University, the 
principal speaker. 
George J. Convey, President of the S L Louis 
Club presided at the head tabic. 
Among the guests was Rt. Rev. Msgr. Leo Byrne representing Archbishop Rilter, who was unable to be present. 
The invocation was given by the Club Chap­lain, Father Reeves. 
Due to a last-minute cliangc in plans, the duties of toastmaster were taken over by JOHN J. GRIFFIN, JR. Jack, as 1953 "Man of the Year" award winner, also had the honor of introducing the 1954 award winner—VINCENT 
J. FEHLIG. 
Announcement was made of the Annual Scholar­ship A^vard, which was won this year by James Krone of Chaminade High Scliool. In addition, a special scholarship was awarded Ernest Haber­kcm, Jr., son of the late ERNEST "BUD" IL\­BERKERN. 
The scene of this year's affair was the Star­light Roof of the Chase Hotel, and was at­tended by approximately one hundred fifty Notre Dame men and guests. 
A cocktail hour preceded dinner, after which followed the introduction of guests, the words of Father Joyce, and dancing for the remainder of the evening. 
—H. L. Dahm, Jr., Sec'y-Treas. 
Tidewater 
The local alumni club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night and honored Catholic High's athletic teams at the same time with a ban­quet featuring Johnny Lattner. Lattner spoke to the group at Catholic High's g\Tn. RAY CHxVM-BERLAND, '49, was toastmaster. 

There has been a slight change in our club recently with the following members getting trans­ferred to other cities: PAT HAGGARTY is pre­paring to leave for Pearl Harbor; HOMER BAR­TON has been transferred to New York City; TO.Xf BECKMAN, FRANK BETTER and FRED HARTMANN have been released from service and are civilians once again. 
Toledo 
The Rev. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., was a special guest at the club's Communion Break­fast on April 25th. 
Tri-Cities 
The 31st Annual Universal Notre Dame Night, 

which ^vas celebrated nationally on Monday, 
April the 26th, was celebrated locally at our 
annual family corporate Communion on Sunday 
the 25th of April. 
The group of 80 .attended Mass at 9 o'clock in 

the Alleman High School Chapel (Rock Island). 
Rev. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., Assist­
ant Director of the Notre Dame Foundation, who 
celebrated the Mass gave a very inspiring talk at 
the breakfast In the Alleman Cafeteria. 
Tlie new officers and directors for the coming year were nominated, elected and installed at the conclusion of the meeting. 
The slate Is as follows: President, WILLIAM BERBOCK, Moline, IlUnois; Vice-President, JERI O.ME CULLIG/\N, Rock Island, IlUnois; Secre­tar>-Treasurer, >VALTER DRAY, Davenport, Iowa; Directors, ROBERT RE.AL, Rock Island, Illinois; CH^\RLES KING, Rock Island, Illinois; ROGER NOL/VN, Davenport, Iowa; J.-\MES DOYLE, Davenport, Iowa. 
Our verj- fine group of ND wives came up with a terrific St. Patrick's party on the 17th of March. The party \vhlch ^vas held at Maran­do's, Milan, Illinois, was chair^%'omaned by Lois Culligan. 
—J. P Doyle 

Tucson 
The club obscr\'ed -UNT) Night with a dinner for alumni and guests. Elmer Besten, president, was in charge of the program. JOHN C.ACKLEY of the Alumni Office represented the University. About 30 attended the event. 
The Tucson Club is proud of this year's rec­ord of two vocations to the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross. ALEXANDER S.\N­CHEZ is no\v in the Noritiate of the Commu­nity at Jordan, ^{innesota, and AL McGINNIS is entering Old College this February as a postulant. 
CALUMET DISTRICT—Tim GalWn receives 'Man of the Year' award on UND Night L. to R.: James Morrison, outgoing president; Dean James E. McCarthy, featured spcalier; Galvin; and Jack Ogren, newly-elected president. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June, I9S4 29 

Tulsa 
The Notre Dame Club of Tulsa celebrated 
Universal Notre Dame Night on Tuesday, April 
27, by holding iu Tliird Annual Ladies Night 
Dinner, under the chairmanship of JOSEPH A. 
MORAN. The affair was held at the ncuiy-com­
pleted Tulsa Catholic Community Center and was 
attended by 100 members, wives, and guests. 
Guest speaker was Father ALFRED MENDEZ, 
C.S.C., Director of Scliolarships and Assistant 
to the Vice President in charge of Business affairs 
at the Univcrsiiv of Notre Dame. Toastmaster 
for the evening was JOSEPH P. MORAN, JR. 
On Sunday, May 2, the Club held its monthly 
Comunion Brcakfa5t whicli, by popular demand, 
ha5 replaced the monthly luncheon held in the 
pa5t. 
—R. F. Skcehan. Sec'v-Trea*. 

Twin Cities 
New ofTicers of the Twin Cities Noire Dame 
Club arc as follows: PAUL KENNEDY, *40, presi­
dent; CARL EILERS, '50, vice-president; JAMES­
ROGERS, '53, srcrctarv; JOHN CONNELLY, '53, 
trcasurcr-
Tlic alumni club is now operating under a 
corporate structure. Aims and poh'des of the 
corporation have been definitely established with 
emphasis on promotion of activities to aid, fi­
nancially, the Holy Cross Novitiate at Jordan, 
Minn. 
Dean James E. McCarthy of tlic College of 
Commerce was featured speaker at the club't 
obscr\'ancc of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Virginia 
We celebrated the Tliirly-firsi Universal Noire 
Dame Night with what wc considered to be the 
finest dinner meeting wc have had to date. The 
chairman for handling the evening was FRANK 
CROVO, and his two able assistants MILTON 
FARLEY and FRANK STUMPF. 
After dinner wc enjoyed the football highlights 
of "53", as well as a reel of "campus life." Our 
program was attended by more than twenty alum­
ni, as Well as several parents of present or 
former students, and it lasted more than five 
hours. 
Wc arc listing below some of the members present: Father LEO FRIERSON, WILLLVM E. PURCELL, Dr GEORGE E. ROSANELLI, Dr. WILLUM E. ROSANELLI, Dr. WALTER BREN­NAN, Dr. FRANK R. KELLY, JR., Dr. CHARLES R. REILLY. CIL\RLES LaFRATTA, PAUL B. NOTT, ROBERT BURKHOUSER, ROBERT McSWEENEY, LEO F. BURKE, THOMAS C. BURKE, ROBERT I. HOWARD. 
—Charles M. Morrison 

Wabash Valley 
Prof. ROBERT ERVIN waj gui-»l speaker of the Wabash Vallc\'*s UND Night mecttng on April 
19. New officers elected for 1954 are: FRANCIS ENGLISH, president; DICK MacDONALD, secre­tary; and GEORGE O'CONNOR, treasurer. 
Washington, D. C. 
On Monday, April 26, alumni and . friends of Notre Dame numbering more than 175, gathered together at the Sheraton-Carlion Hotel in Wash­ington, D. C , to celebrate the Thirty-first Annual Universal Notre Dame Night. Guests included rep­resentatives of the executive, legislative and ju­diciary brandies of the Federal Government, Tliis was the high spot of the local club^s activities for the year and the hotel banquet room was filled to capacity 
Festivities began at 6:30 in the evening, ^fembcrs and guests were greeted by dignitaries and dub offidals who formed a receiving line as follows: GAYLORD P. HASS, diairman of the Board of Governors; Rev. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C., President, University of Notre Dame; Dr. JAMES M. CORCORAN, dub president; Honor­able RICHARD M. NIXO.N, \'icc President of the United States; VALENTINE B. DE.\LE, president elect and chairman of the Universal Notre Dame Night committee and J.\MES G. McGOLDRICK, president. National Alumni Association. 
A cocktail hour added a note of conviviality and sodability before the assemblage took their pre­arranged scats in the banquet room 
Following dinner, ROBERT W. aWANAUGH 
BALTIMORE—UND Night was held in Park Plaza Hotel and featured address by Frank Cawley, '33. L. to R.: Rev. Thomas Fitzpatrick, C.S.C; James Murray, Jr., club president; Cawley; and Frank Hochrieter, '35, toastmastcr. (Ed. Note: In case any of you '35 men arc worried that *Hoch' is working around the clock that white hair and moustache were part of makeup for play he appeared in later that same evening.) 
took over as toastmastcr and laundied a sparkling 
program that will be long remembered. Out-going 
president Jim Corcoran quickly reviewed a highly 
successful dub year. His last official act v^-as the 
awarding of the prized Man of the Year Scroll to 
WILLIAM D. KAVANAUGH, Governor, District 
of Columbia, University* of Notre Dame Founda­
tion. Tlie Scroll dted his outstanding work for 
the Foundation and the dub and his exemplary 
life as a family man, and leader In business, re­
ligious and dvic activities. 
The gavel v%-as then turned over to the nev%* president, Val Dcale, who introduced the other members of the offidal family: Vice President JOHN T. BARBER; Secretary, HOWARD J. SCHELLENBERG, JR.; Treasurer, WALTER J. SHORT. Not to be outdone fay the old admini­stration, prexy Dealc laundied hts offtdal program by presenting a plaque to Jim Corcoran in recog­nition of his outstanding service to the club during the past year. 
Western Washington 
Alumni club members held a dinner-meeting on January 28 at Seattle University Student Union Building. A Highlights of 1952 football film was featured. 
The alumni dub of Western Washington honored die Rev. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C.. at a reception and dinner on March 9 at the Rainier Club in Seattle. PAT GOGGIN, '30, dub president, gave the welcoming address and intro­duced the toastmastcr E.MMETT G. LENIHAN, '15. Also on the program in addition to Father Hesburgh were the Hon. Allan Pomcroy, Mayor of Seattle, Dr. Henry Schulu, President of the University of Washington, the Rev. Robert Reh­balin, S.J., of Seattle University, and the Ver>* Rev. Cornelius M. Power, Chancellor, represent­ing Ardibishop TTiomas A. Connolly. The dinner was attended by 114 people, E.M.\fETT LENI­HAN was general diairman and his committee consisted of FRED N. HOOVER, '43, W. JER­OME KANE, '38, CHARLES S. LaCUGNA, '45, BERNARD J. LENOUE, *31, J. DONALD SUL­LIVAN, '48, and PATRICK D. SUTHERLAND, '45. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated on April 26 witli a committee consisting of Sen. PATRICK D. SUTHERLAND, chairman, JOHN 
P. ENGUSH, '33, and J. DONALD SULLIVAN. 
Wichita 
The Widiita Club celebrated UND Night with a ditmer-meeting attended by alumni and guests. GEORGE SCHWARZ, dufa president, spoke to the group on the history* of UND Night. Campus films also were shown. 
Willlamsport 
Two outstanding events in recent months staged by the AViIliamsport Club include a dinner with Notre Dame students as guests. WILLIAM 
R. DOWT^S, '10, dub president, presided at the dinner and JACK WILIAL\NN, '40, was toast­master. HARRY KENNEDY, '31, of near-by Jer­sey Shore and currently in South America with Coca-Cola, was guest speaker. HARRY KRIMM. '28, and FRANK HAYES, '27. were co-diairmen of the dinner. JOSEPH ORSO. JR., a senior law student, spoke for the students. 
The annual K of C Sports Night program featured a homecoming for CLARENCE "JAKE" KLINE, popular head baseball coadi at Notre Dame and a native of Williamsport. Jake v%-as honored by more than 400 K of C members and guests and tlte Williamsport Notre Dame Club. He received a K of C trophy and a gift from the alumni club. 
Youngstown 
Alumni from Youngstown, Warren, Sharon (Pa.) and the adjoining areas, gatliered, indud­ing wives, parents of present students, and friends, to observe the 3Ist Universal Notre Dame Night on* April 28. JOHN KANE, '25, former Youngstown Club president, was on hand from Ctevdand to M.C the event. Principal speaker was JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, alumni secretarv. RAYMOND G. "GRIFF" ALLEN. '44, suc­ceeded WILLIAM LYDEN, JR., as president of the Club, and an expanding program is on its way with the enthusiasm and the addition of the families and friends to the Club activities. The Glee Club had appeared in Sharon, Pa., shortly before UND Night, and made a big impression on those who attended tlic concert, which was. on short notice for the Club. 
jet plane crash In Korea. Major Brczas who was credited with destroying 32 enemy planes, 24 of them in air combat in World ^Var II, 
MM] 
Engagements 
Miss Joanne Thcrcsc Jankowski and WILLIAM T. BON>VICH, '48. Miss lone Berry Edwards and JOHN D. WITT, '48. Miss Louise Kleinricliert and RICH<\RD EYK­HOLT, '50. Miss Joan Ann Lohr and DAVID F. SWEEN­EY, '51. Miss Patricia Ann Kalisli and &\RL BACHLE, JR., '52. Miss Agnes Fischbach and FR^VNK SEMET­KO, '52. 
Marriages 
Miss Br^cc LcaWit and FR/\NK E. ECK, '44, Wilmette, III., April 24. Miss Philomcna Haag and PRI.MO V. LUSARDI, '50, Tyrone, Pa., Oct. 10, 1953. Miss Kathr>n Barn' and HENRY A. .McCOR-MACK, '52, New York, N. Y., Dec. 26, 1953. Miss Miriam Lucilc Wagner and THOMAS P. MURRAY, '52, Canton, Ohio, Jan. 30. 
Births 

Mr. and Mrs. J. HARVEY DALY, '28, twin daughters, Anne Carson and Maura Aiken. Mr. and Mrs. NORBERT J. CROUT, '32, a son, Ronald Edward, December 16, 1953. Mr. and Mrs. J. FRANK HOLi\H,\N, '35, a daughter, Rita Louise, March 4. .Mr. and Mrs. PAUL J. DOYLE, JR., '36, a son, Kevin Tliomas, December 3, 1953. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. DAHILL, '37, a son, Thomas Stephen, February 4. -Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM L. PIEDMONT, '39, a daughter. Mr. and Mrs. C. E. JORD/VN, '40, a son, Timothy John, December 26, 1953. Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD TE,\H, '40, a daughter, Christine, February 5. .Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. CHRIST.NWN, '42, a son, James Anthony, January 27. .Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. WRIGHT, '42, a daughter, Patricia Ann, March 17. Mr. and Mrs. FREDERICK W. CHRISTM,VN, 
'43, a daughter, Mary Margaret, February 22. Mr. and Mrs. DOMINIC F. BOETTO, '44, a daughter, Elizabeth Marian, December 14, 1953. 
-Mr. and Mrs. IUCI1.\RD J. HACKM,\N, '44, a daughter, Barbara, Marcli 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDW,\RD F. SCHMID, '44, twins, Gerald Charles and Gail Catherine, Sep­tember 27, 1953. 
.Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT S. WITTE, '44, a son, Joseph, February 25. Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES S. LaCUGNA, '46, a daughter, Mary Teresa, March I. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL P. GOODMAN, '47, a son, Paul, Jr., October 17, 1953. Mr. and Mrs. J,\MES W. KELLY, '47, a son, Brendan James, March 5. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES E. MURPHY, '47, a son, James £. Jr., Mardi 24. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN E COSTELLO, '48, a daughter, Patricia Lynn, January 14. Mr. and Mrs. ORVILLE E. DUNN, JR., '48, a daughter, Elizabeth Jane, January 24. Mr. and Mrs. LEONARD B. ILVRT, '48, a son, Kevin Joseph, November 22, 1953. Mr. and Mrs. C. EDWARD MELLV, '48, a son, Edward Joseph, March 5. Mr. and Mrs. C. ROBERT SATTI, '48, a son, Charles Robert, Jr., January 28. Mr. and Mrs. tVILLLUf A. WEILER, '48, a son, Mark Alan, December 16, 1953. 
ii-HfJ^
sm 
Mr. and .Mrs. RAYMOND J. BUSHEY, JR., '49, twins, Jonathan Raymond and Deirdrc Mau­ra, December 5, 1953. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN P. DE.MPSEY, '49, a son, January 26. Mr. and Mrs. MYLES H. QUAIL, '49, a son, Matthew Alan, Fcbruar>- 3. -Mr. and Mrs. PHILIP D. SHEj\, JR., '49, a son, Kevin Michael, December 24, 1953. Mr. and .Mrs. JOHN E. COURTNEY, '50, a daughter. Colleen. Mr. and .Mrs. JOHN E. .McIL\LE, JR., '50, a daughter, Mary Tlierese, March 14. .Mr. and Mrs. RICHtVRD W. .MURPHY, '50, a son, Kevin Patrick, January 10. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN i L B,\NNON, JR., '52, a son, John, HI, January 9. Mr. and Mrs. FREDERICK R. ESSER, '52, a daughter, Januar>' 30. Mr. and -Mrs. JAMES G. RICHESON, '52, a son, James, Jr., Januarv- 22. 
Obituary 
ARTHUR T. JACKSON, '84, died last fall in Los Angeles, Calif. ERNEST F. DUBRUL, '92, Cindnnali, Ohio, died ^^a^ch 8. WILLIAM P. BURNS, '96, died January 11 in Michigan City, Ind. 
REV. THOMrVS A. CRUMLEY, C^.C, '96, former vice-president and professor at Notre Dame, died recently in Anderson, Ind., where he was ser\'ing as Chaplain at St. John's Hos­pital. 
JOHN N. GOEKE, '99, died at his home in Wapakoneta, Ohio, September 12, 1953. For over thirty years Mr. Goekc was associated with numerous business enterprises. In 1894 and 1895 he was a member of the Notre Dame varsity football team. Sur\iving are his wile and three daughters. 
ARTHUR A. SCHELLINGER, '11, of South Bend, Ind., died February 21. FREDERICK N. CGUNTISS, '16, died De­cember 18, 1953, in Chicago, III. Dr. ROBERT J. BURNS, '17, Kenmore, N. Y., died March 15. HERBERT C. HELLRUNG, '18, died last year in Alton, III. JOSEPH R. McGR/VW, '21, of Tuba, Okla­homa, died January 21. JEROME D. BLIEVERNICHT, '23, died De­cember 22, 1953, in Elmhurst, 111. REV. KEITH L. ROCHE, '26, died January 
21. Father Roche had ser\'ed as pastor of St. Ann's Catholic Church, Toluca, 111., for the last fourteen years. 
WILLIAM H. DOWNEY, '28, professor in the Department of Economics, died at his home in Niles, Mich., January II. He had been ill since December 24. Professor Downey ^vas co-organizer of the National Catholic Economic As­sociation and had been a member of the faculty since he received bis master's degree at Notre Dame in 1928. 
SISTER M. ASICKTA O'CONNOR, O.M., '28, died recently In Latrobe, Pa, REV. JOSEPH LUTTALVN, C.S.C., '29, died recently. JOHN J. HOLMES, '31, Corning. N. Y., died February 2. IR\aN S/\NDME1ER, '^, Munde, Ind., died May 28, 1951. 
J.VMES D. DEV-ERS, '35, died February 20 in Carbondalc, Pa. He is survived by his wife, three brothers and one sister. 
DONALD G. MULL.\NY, '46, Brooklyn, N. Y., died December 4, 1953. EMIL J. JENICEK. JR., '51, died February 5 in Chicago, III. MAJOR MICHAEL G. BREZAS, USAF, '52, Bloomfield, N. J., was killed February 5 in a 

held 22 decorations Including the Silver Star. He Is survived by his tvife, two children, his mother, two brothers and three sisters. 
THOMAS E. BRANIFF. president of BranifT In­ternational Air^vays and Texas Eastern Gas Trans-" mission Company, was killed January 10 In an airplane crash with ten other companions while returning from a duck hunting trip in Louisi­ana. The plane crashed Into an unoccupied house' near Shreveport, La. Mr. BranifT was a member of Notre Dame's Advisory Council in the College of Commerce. He is survived by his wife. 
Sympathy 

GERALD .\SHE, '22, EDMUND C. ^\SHE, '26 and THO.MiXS R. ,VSHE, '31, on the death of their father, John A., in Whitticr, California, January 31 at the age of 86 years. Burial was in Rochester, New York, February 6. 
PATRICK J. GOGGIN, JR., '30, on the death of his son January 20. 
JAMES K. COLLINS, '32, on the death of his mother. 
JOHN P. BURNS, '34 and HUGH BURNS, '39, on the death of their father, January II. 
PATRICK J. FISHER, '35, JOHN A. FISHER, '41, and PAUL A. FISHER, '43, on the death of their father. 
HERBERT J. Z,\LLER, '38, RAYMONT) C. ZtVLLER, '40, and LEONARD F. ZALLER, '49. on the death of their parents. 
ROBERT BRESKA, '43, on the death of his son January 30. 
VICTOR DE SIMON. 'U, on the death of his fatlier. 
ROY E. WENDELL, JR., '50, on the death of his father March 7. 
WALTER KOSYDAR, JR., '51, and ROBERT KOSYDAR, '53, on the death of their father November 9, 1953. 
KARL T. BURNS, '53, on the death of his father March 15. 
Before 1900 
ARTHUR COLE is associated with the Art Dry Cleaning Company, Cincinnati, Ohio. 
1904 
Jf\MES R. RECORD, managing editor of the Ft. Worth Star-Telegram, recently received a citation for his promotion of brotherhood and good will among all men from the National Conference of Christians and Jews. The N.C.C.J. citation' read that Jfr. Record "has dedicated himself to the common good and the preservation and extension of our free way of life." 
fOI 1 ^T^cd L. Steers 
• ' • • 105 So. LaSalle St. Chicai^o 3, Illinois 
J.VMES L. "LAZ" FISH is assodated with the Flsh-Cundari Sporting Goods Company In Kearny, New Jersey. 
^A« 9 Paul R. Byrne I T I J O'Shaughnessy BIdg. Notre Dame, Indiana 
MORGAN CARTIER, SR., of Grand Rapids, Mich., has recently been ill but Is back home again no^v and conx'alescing. 
Notre Dame Alumntts, May-June, 1954 31 

ITlO 612 \Vlsconsin Avenue 
101>l ^^^ O'Neill 
• ' • ** 1350 No. Black Oak Dr. South Bend 17, Indiana 
Assurances Iiavc been received from more than forty (48 to be exact) members of tlic famed class of '14 that ihey will be on hand for our fortieth reunion in June. It seems assured that more members of the class will attend this re­union than were here for any previous one. IF YOU have not already done so, plan NOW to join the men you knew during those happy years on the campus. 
Among those who have written recently that they will be here is R. T. (DICK) BRAUN, who is coming all the way from Port Arthur, Texas, where he is associated with the Mathieson Chemi­cal Corporation. 
FRANK J. KIRCHMAN, JR., who possessed one of the ver>' few typewriters in Sorin Hall in 1914, will come from Denver. Frank sent some interesting news clippings concerning FRED GUS­HURST( he'll be here, too, from Denver!) who, with KNUTE ROCKNE, held down the end posi­tions on the team that really started Notre Dame as a football power. One clipping was from Ripley's "Believe It or Not" column show­ing Gus's parents, Mr. and Mrs. Peter Gushurst, who recently celebrated their 75th wedding an­niversarv*. 
J. M. WALSH, now Vice President of the Sedg­wick Machine Works, is coming from Flushing, 
N. Y. Joe advises, as did E. S. RYAN, '23, that our temporarily-lost classmate, FRANCIS J. RYAN is now located at 6721 S. E. 34th Avenue, Port­land '2, Oregon. 
J. R. FARRELL of General Electric at Harris­burg .will be on hand, and promises to try to lure back R. E. (BOB) DALY, who has been 
. located at Room 1055, 681 Market Street, San Francisco 5. 
CHAS. L. VAUGHAN writes from Lafayette, Indiana, tliat he's been urging his particular friends to come back, and has assurances from TWOMEY CLIFFORD of Camden, Arkansas, WILLARD CHESTER of Elkhart, Indiana, and WILLIAM P. (POYNT) DOWTS'ING of Deca­tur, Illinois. Poj-nt is also on the recruiting line, and promises to have back a couple of boys who haven't been here since 1914! 
Shortly before the reunion your secretary* will send you a complete program of activities. Tlicre will be plenty of 'fun'—but there will also be the traditional Mass for ALL members of our class, said by our beloved Father MATTHEW WALSH, and possibly another later afternoon Mass at the Grotto on Saturday. 
Attorney CHARLES L. A'AUGHAN, *14, of Lafayette, Indiana, has been receiving cotisldcr­able favorable publicity in the national press and legal journals for his scholarly presentation of *'Cross-Examination of an Expert Witness" at re­cent legal institutes and bar association meet­ings. He was asked to make the presentation by the Indiana State Bar Association. 

«A«»« James £. Sanford ITIO 1429 West Farrat^ut Ave Chicago 40, Illinois 
GEORGE N. SHUSTER, president of Hunter College, has accepted the chairmanship of the National Commission for the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organiza­tion. Recently George lectured on "The Annvcr of Catholicism" at the annual religious forum at Williams College. He also spoke at the sixth an­nual fonun of Barnard College. 
Racine, Wisconsin 
A letter from ART DENNEHY. '30: 

*'Just thought that you would like to kno\%' about ED BECKALVN being so favorably quoted in the March issue, 'Tlie Sign,' re: the article ' 'So You're Looking for a Job.* The data covers the three non-profit groups: the Career Plan­ning Clinic of the Notre Dame Club of New York at the Carroll Club, the Man-Marketing Clinic guided by Sidney Edlund, former president of Lifc-Savcrs, Inc., and the Job-Finding Forum at the Advertising Club." 
RAY HUMPHREYS is head investigator for the district attorney's office city of Denver. On the side he has been made famous by writing hundreds of detective stories based on the ex­periences of his office. 
^0^ ^ Edw*ard J. McOskcr i ' • ' 2205 Brianvood Road Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio 
101Q George E. Harbert 
• ' • O 108 North Main Street Sycamore, Illinois 
Xtiss Rita Wallace, daughter of JAMES G. AVALLACE, Syracuse, New York, is among the postulants who recently received the habit of the Sisters of Providence at St. Mary's of the AVoods College, Terre Haute, Indiana. We are sure she will be happy in her vocation. We ex­tend our congratulations to Jim. 
JOHN LEMMER is bus>* planning new school facilities for his growing community. For those who may have forgotten, John Is Superintendent of Scliools at Escanaba, Michigan. Same story— more children to provide for. 
Judge AL O'SULLIVAN while majoring as a Judge of the Circuit Court is adopting dra­matics in his spare time. He took one of the lead parts in the Church Amateur dramatic presentations in Belvldere. 
LU HELLER is making his name as a Title Attorney for the Commonwealth Title Company of Portland, Oregon. 
1 91 9 Theodore C. Rademaker 
• ' • ' Peru Foundry Company Peru, Indiana 
35 YEAR REUNION 
JUNE JJ-12^73 

109A Ralph W. Bcrs^man ITZO 1609 No. Jefferson Ave. St. Louis 6, Alissouri 
Notice has just been received of the death of FRANCIS J. MURPHY, 430 Third St., Lafay­ettc, Ind. You will remember "Frank" and EDDIE MEEHAN as the great "milcrs" of our time. "Frank" attended the 1950 reunion, so it's later than you think and remember w-e hav« another reunion coming up in 1955. Plan to be there for a round of hand shakes with your classmates of 1920. 
It ^vas some effort to find on the Oklahoma map the dot that read Okarche. Once there, it was mighty easy to find PAUL LOOSEN, for he is the bank president. Some sort of record may be established, because Paul is the third genera-lion and last summer Paul's son was the fourth generation on the payroll of the First Bank of Okarche, which was established by the grand­father. 
Paul still showed the effects of a very serious operation he underwent last summer. He is slowly regaining his health and strength, while still active at his work. He and his charming wife plan a deser\'ed trip to Europe this year. 
ITZI 1101 N.B.C. Buildinir Cleveland 14, Ohio 
ALFRED N. SLAGGERT has been named a member of the Saginaw County (Michigan) Bar Association's Librar>' Committee for 1954. 
1009 Gerald A. Ashe 
• ' * * 39 Cambridge Street Rochester 7, N. Y. 
As the last issue of the Aliunnus was goins to prcsSf word was received of the death of our 
Alfred 'Dutch' Bergman, patient at Irene Byron Hospital, received a plaque and television set for the ND Monogram Club. (L. to R.): Emil Sitko, Robert Kearney, Fort Wayne alumni club president; Neil Worden; William Schmidt, Portland, Ore., and classmate of Bergman; and Charlie Callahan, Irish sports publicity director. 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1954 
NEW YORK CITY—^The alumni club*s annual presentation of vestments on Lactare Sun­day. L. to R,: Anthony F, Earley, Jr., club secretary; James J- Clynes, Jr., club president; Father Bernard E. Ransing, C.S.C., representing the Very Rev. Christopher J. 0*TooIe, C.S.C., Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross; and George L. Olvany. 
beloved classmate and friend—>VALTER STUHL­DREHER in an auto accident on Christinas Eve a few miles north of Tipton, Indiana. Bare an­nouncement of Walter's death was printed in the Alumnus. We surely do tender our solace to Mildred Sluhldrcher, widow of the deceased, and to their two daughters and three sons, also to HARRY STUHLDREHER, N.D. '25,—a brother, and to all members of the Stuhldreher family. We of *22 were very fond of \Valter; our high regard for him goin^ back as far as 1918 when he came to N.D. as a freshman from his home city or Massillon, Ohio. Walter always had much interest in the Class of 1922, both as student and alumnus. He missed our 30th reunion in 1952 solely because of the illness of his youngest son who was stricken at that particular time with rheumatic fever. Some few months later, Walter himself was a patient at Mayo Brothers in Rochester, Minnesota, during December of 1952 and January, 1953. Walter had recently been promoted to position of vice-president of A. G. Becker and Company, Chicago investment bank­ing firm with offices in Indianapolis, his home city. The Class of '22 was represented at the funeral by FRANK BLOEMER of Louisville, a close personal friend of the deceased. 
October 16th was the dale of the silver wedding anniversary of Bemie and JAMES V. JONES of Rochester, N. V. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH 0ORAN of Albany made a special trip to Rochester for the occasion. 
JOSEPH DORAN is on the legal staff of the New York State Public Service Commission. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK BLOEMER of Louisrille took a mid-winter cruise to Ecuador aboard a ship of the United Fruit Company's fleet. 
Dr. DAN SEXTON of St. Louis expects to at­tend a Chicago meeting in May and hopes to get down to the campus for a "quickie." 
This year Father JOSEPH RICK, C.S.C., cele­brates his 25th Anniversary as a missionary in Bengal. His present address i$: 28 Zindabahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. Father GEORGE 
B. FISCHER, C.S.C., of the Holy Cross Eastern Mission Band celebrates his 25th Anni\xrsary of ordination to the Holy Priesthood in 1954. His address is Tucker Road, North Dartmouth, Mass. 
DAN YOUNG of Foley Brothers, Inc., who has only been back in. the U.S.A. a short time from his stay of some years atop the Chilean Andes building a copper refinery for Anaconda, is now busy in Aurora, Minnesota, and vicinity starting to erect a Taconite plant for the Erie Mining Com­pany. The proposed plant is designed to pro­cess the low grade ore of the Iron Range. 
109 0 Louis V. Bruggncr IT^ 5 2165 Riverside Drive South Bend, Indiana 

Availability of *23 news reached an all-time high with the receipt of first returns of a questionnaire mailed to the Class last winter. Many news leads have been uncovered, although only 37 replies had been received at press time. Members arc urgently requested to return their questionnaires. 
The Class grapevine and the Alumni ofTice have helped sxvell to 27 the list of knoxvn de­ceased Class members. Most recent deaths were those of JERRY BLIEVERNICHT and CHARLES 
B. RUBLE. A letter received from Mrs. Mary Blievemicht, Jerry's widow, revealed that he died Dec. 22, 1953, following an emergency op­eration for a perforated colon, and was buried Dec. 24 in Elmhurst, 111. For the past three years Jerry had owned and operated a grocery and market in Lisle, 111. ^frs. Helen Ruble HTOte, in answer to our inquiry, that her husband pass­ed away in Bicknell, Ind., on January 29, 1954, following surgery in October for stomach can­cer. Newspaper obituaries listed Charlie as orchardist and dairyman. 
To these recent deaths we have added three classmates whose names were not on our list of deceased classmates at our June, 1953 reunion. Questionnaires received to date have revealed that -\UT r KEEGAN, JOSEPH CASEY, and PERCY IVILCOX passed away unknown to most of us. Other than that Perce died in June, 1951, wc have no information. Details thereof from those of you who have more information, will be wel­comed. 
Space doesn't permit recounting many of the news notes received in the questionnaire replies. These will be passed on lo you in the next Class of '23 News Letter. Ho\vcver some things, chosen at random, will prove lo you how worth­while it will be for you to write your Secretar\-, so that the scuttlebutt can be passed on. 
HAROLD F. HAYNES wrote a nice letter from Los Angeles, where he has lived since the war after extensive Naval scr\*icc in the South Pa­cific. Harold got sU ^vecks of Naval training at N. D. in 1922 at the time of his commis­sion and reached the status of a senior Naval officer. He is now commanding officer of a Naval Reser\c Advance Base unit at L. A., and is in the warehousing business there. 
HI HUNT took time out from his strenuous duties as Internal Revenue Agent to write from Decorah, Iowa. Hi inquired about MATT KEE* GAN, and we give the answer above. Thanks to Hi's letter, we have recovered the names of LOUIS NAVIN, Mitchell, S. Dak., and DONALD 
T. FirZGIBBON, Ames, Iowa. Louli is practic­ing Ixvf and Fltz is a tax coostUtant and, ac­cording to Hi, has "escaped the obHgatiou of matrimony." 
DUKE HOLDER wants to know the where­abouts of MARK HEALY, '22, Muscatine, Iowa. Write to Duke or to this office. Duke is an at­torney and acting postmaster of Portland, Oregon. 
DAN CULHANE, national representative of the Boys Clubs of America, and Alumni Board member, telephoned your "secretary" some weeks ago when he was in South Bend, but found me away from home. Thanks, Dan. I will appreciate phone calls from any of you boys at any time. 
ELKIER COLLINS wrote an interesting yam about trying to locate CONNIE ALT in Con's office in New York City, on the same day that Con was trying to locate Elmer, now an Army Colonel in San Francisco, in the Colonel's office. A few days later they managed to meet at the Army Chemical Center where Elmer is stationed, and revelled in their first visit since Connie was best man at Elmer's wedding in St. Pat's Church, South Bend, in October, 1924. 
FRANCIS NEITZEL wants to know "what happened to TED McDONALD from Pocatello, Idaho?" Anybody know? 
AxAURICE DACY has made a new connection in Chic:^o and is now associated with the Heyer Corporation in the sale of spirit duplicators. From what could be gathered at the last reunion, the spirits in the duplicators are the only ones Maurie Is on intimate terms with. 
Information wanted: Above we list the name of JOSEPH CASEY as among the deceased. This is on the strength of a memo from EDWARD 
D. KELLY of Emmetsburg, Iowa, who writes "If Casey was the one from Carroll, Iowa, he died some years ago." Casey's mail had been returned unclaimed to the Alumni Office. 
At least one member of the Class liked the geographical Class directory mailed out. BILL VOSS says he is "tickled to get the geographical listing as I do bat around the country quite a bit. . . . I'll do my best to contact the boys." 
Not a single reply has been received in the questionnaire from any of the clergy on our Class roster, possibly because many of the ques­tions are slanted to\%rard the married men. How­ever, we urge you. Fathers, to. send in your replies—and forget all about our pan-handling. 
A few short da>-s after getting these notes off my chest, I am taking off for a West Indies cruise with Mrs. Bruggner (remember "Gin" Hull?). However, I want to make it plain that the trip is in no ^vay related to the amassing of the $45 fortune which I have achieved to date through pan-handling you boys out of some Class ex­pense money. Your contributions have been ex­cellent, considering the comparatively few replies received so far. However, the sum total doesn't yet approach my breaking-point in the urge to embezzle. 
30 YEAR REUNION 
JUNE n-12-13 

m tit A Rev. Thomas A. Kdly, CS.C. iTAl Cavanaugh HaU Notre Dame, Indiana 
THOMAS H. HODGSON is oecuUve vice-president of the Minneapolis Retail Federation. 
FRED G. MANCUSO has been elected Judge Advocate General for the Veterans of Foreign Wars. 
«fl4E J° ^ P- Hurley I TA3 1218 City Park Avenue Toledo, Ohio Our 1925 column has been too blank—partly my fault—mostly yours. .. . 
Let's have some news. That 1925' column looked doubly blank to your secretary because I had sent in some newt for 
Noire Dame AlumtiitJ, May-June, 1954 33 

The O'Neills have been, and will be, high on the list of Notre Dame families. Left to right: Dennis J,, Jr., '51; Robert M. Wallace, *51 i (son-in-law of Dennis, Sr.); Michael, '60; Dennis J., Sr., '26; William P., '06; Ronald S., '14; John, '48; William R., '42; William Patrick, '65 ^ 
the Xovcmbcr issue which missed tlie deadline and I thought it would be used for the January Alumnus, but I suppose it was too full of the "Christmas Spirit" for JOHN CACKLEV to re­hash. 
No doubt, most of vou noticed in the last issue of the "Alumnus" that EDWIX J. ^VES• NER of Fort '\Va>'ne, Indiana, died November 13th, 1953. I didn*t receive any details but I wrote your treasurer, HANK ^\'URZER, to take care of the class Mass. Hank promptly advised me that he had written to the widow, enclosing a ^fass Card from Fatlicr ifoXvoy. Hank is doing a fine job and plans to have anottier list made up of the deceased members of our Class —keep it in your missal and pray for your classmates! 
Be sure to remember Edwin in your Masses and prayers. 
The Class of 1925 would also like to express its sympathy to HARRY STUHLDREHER on the death of his brother, AValtcr, of the class of '22. I was shocked to hear of this because I had a pleasant visit with Harry in Toledo on the occasion of his talk to the Catliolic Central football team in early December. Walter was killed in an automobile accident on December 24th. Fra sure many of the class of 1925 re­member that pleasant personalty and smile of Walter Stuhldrcher. Be sure to remember him in your prayers. 
Harry had seen many '25ers in his travels. He sees ELMER LAYDEN quite often, as the two horsemen are interested in "steel" and Elmer's office is in the same building as Harry's Chicago office of U. S. Steel. You '25*ers who were at the Pittsburgh game must have been pretty proud when Elmer was chosen along with KNUTE ROCKNE and GEORGE GIPP for the Football Hall of Fame. Belated congratulations, Elmer! 
Harry mentioned that the Four Horsemen were to meet in New York and be present at the Heisman Trophy presentation and it was an­nounced the ver>' day Harry and I were togetlicr that John Lattner won it, so it was a real Notre Dame affair. Harry is linng in Pittsburgh and was looking forward to a family reunion at Christmas with one of his boys who is In the service, and others in universities—one at Notre Dame and one still at home in high school. Harry telb me he sees FRANKLIN McSORLEY quite often—in fact, Frank's his landlord as he owns the large apartment building that Harry lives in. He sees EDWARD "OATS'" BYRNES and he ran into ED HUNTSINGER not too long ago. Both are fine! 
BENJAMIN LI\nERGOOD recently announced the marriage of his daughter, Dian, to Lt. William V. Lytle, U.S.M.C. The marriage took place at St. Patrick's Church, Decatur, Illinois. 
While at the Pittsburgh and Georgia Tech games last fall I saw some of the 25'ers at the Alumni Service Booth. One of the students in the booth was a son of LA^VRENCE CASEY of Batavia, New York. The Judge was not at the game himself. LEO POWERS had a qm'ck hello and what was a scoop last fall will still be nc%vs to most of you. Leo is married, so our perennial bachelor has lost his title. Who knows of another 25'er not married??? I can't think of one off hand, can any of you, and if so let's hear from you. Congratulations Leo! 
R/\Y CUNNINGHAM was a pretty sick class­mate this past summer but he recovered beauti­fully from a serious illness and if he takes It easy he will live to see his great grandsons. PAUL DOOLEY and R.\Y TILLMAN \vcre at a table at the Central High Banquet to hear Harr>*'s talk, whicli by the ^vay was excellent. Paul and Ray are in the same parish and we sec each otlier quite often. Paul has two boys still in grade £chool and Ray has five children and some grandcliildrcn but Ray got married the week after he received his sheepskin—the first of the 25'crs after that day in June 1925. 
I received a Christmas card from WALTER HAECKER from Nashville, Tenn. Butch Is do­ing very well in a business venture In tliat city. I believe his concern manufactures bulldozers and hca\y machinery. Give him a buzz when any of you 25'ers go through that *'Gatc\vay to the South!" I still get a card on my birtltday from PAUL HOEFFLER who's doing a great job in the Insurance business. Speaking of Insurance men, I had a nice phone call from FRANK HOW­LAND when he was passing through Toledo on his way home to Detroit. We parted with, "I don't suppose we will see each other at the Tech game,*' but we did and I ^vas happy to meet his very charming wife. Frank was with .MIKE DUFFEY, '27 and BOB COONEY, *27. Remember Frank and Mike were in Harry De-sag's orchestra way back In those College Inn "Daze." Mike still has that famous smile and Cooncy a story or two. It was quite a reunion— even though It only lasted a few minutes. 
Your secretary ran across some 25*crs at the Rocknc Communion Breakfast at the Statler In Cleveland. Incidentally, JOE BOLAND was toast­master and was tops! All the coaches from HUNK ANDERSON to TERRY BRENN^VN were there FRANK LEt\HY had us laughing one minute and weeping the next. Our own ELMER LAYDEN jokingly told of how BILL CERNEY and BER­NIE LIVERGOOD were really better fullbacks back In '25 but Rockne used him because the holes RIP MILLER'S line opened up were so narrow that he, Elmer, was the only one who could go through them. JI.M ARMSTRONG was the first of the many fine speakers. JOHN KANE and FRANK STEEL were at the affair. They both look great! DON MILLER was there. I learned from Don's wife that he w^r just elected to the Board of Directors of the Cleve­land Bar Association. 
A tew weeks ago **the four horsemen of '25" were on the Chicago Tribune's TV story of *'Tlie Life of Elmer Layden." JIM CROWLEY Is bringing them together again on a program on the TV station that Jim is manager of in Scrantqn, Pcnn. This will be the third get-together of our famous "Four Horsemen" within a few months. After thirty years, that name still retains a lot of glamour in the sports world. 
Well boys—let's start ''beating the drums" for "our 1955 reunion because that's a year from this June and It will be here before we know it. If God spares you, plan to be there and as a starter let us replenish tliat Mass Fund because we may have many more called to tlieir reward between now and then. So let's hear from you soon— even if it's giving your secretary hell for the lack of 25 news. . . . After all, you make the news so let's hear from you and yours. 
IQOA J?-? !• ^y?" 
2434 Greenleaf Avenue Chicago 45, Illinois 

MEREDITH H. DOYLE has been selected by the State Supreme Court justices in Michigan as a court administrator. Eventually it is hoped that his position will be one which can recommend the best possible distribution of the state's ju-dtctal manpower in order to handle cases with a minimum of delay. 
I. I. PROBST is a member of the planning committee for a new Knights of Columbus build­ing to be erected jn Coral Gables, Florida. Re­cently he was elected chairman of the board of directors of the Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami. He Is also a former president of the club and was chosen Notre Dame Man of the Year there In 1950. 
Stung to the quick by the editor's comment on a missing column in the last Alumnus your secretary' hurries to get something In for the next Issue. 
When the comment appeared In place of a column It gave rise to a hope that some of you fellows might come to the help of a struggling secretary and send In something for a column. It may be that IZZY PROBST'S letter came as a result of that. 
Our Southern Vice Prcsldenl wrote a short note and frankly, I can't see how he got time to write that. In addition to his Insurance ad­justment business in Miami Izzy is also Chair­man of the Board of Directors of the Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami and Grand Knight of Bishop Barry Council, K of C. His son, R«bcrt, expects to enroll at Notre Dame next fall. As he signed the letter Izzy hand wrote a 
P.S. and gave with the news. He married again In July, 1952 and now has a new son, seven months old. Also, a grandson, 1 ^ years old. Hope the older guy has proper respect for his uncle. Anyway, congratulations. Pop and Grandpop! 
According to the Chicago newspapers In early December, 1953, ANDY CONLIN was appointed Executive Vice President of Crerar Clinch Coal Co. They must like him and he must like them for the job seems to be permanent, Andy having been with the firm for 28 years In operating and sales capacities. Congrats, Veep. 
Speaking of officers—our Treasurer GEORGE HARTNETT seems to have taken on a perma­net job. The Merchants and Manufacturers Club in Chicago recently re-elected htm to a third successive term as president. That would indi­cate "successful'* as well as "successive." 
A couple of months ago JOHN TUOHY pcr­fomied a feat that your secretary has wanted to do but never quite fzould work up to. And John did it so casually it looked ver>* simple. As I was walking down Wabash Avenue I saw John turning into a building entrance and called to him. He continued on but as he went through the revolving door I again called and John very calmly turned around and reversed the direction of the door! We had a few minutes conversa­tion . In the course of which John asked about my family and I told him my daughter. Sheila, had been married a fet%' days before. Whereupon 
DENVER—Local alumni honored 
lie told me that STEVE PIETROWICZ'S daughter had been married the same day. 
The last Issue of NOTRE DAME carried quite a nice article on the vaulting chemists, the HARRINGTONS, our Paul, and his son, Jim. There was only one part of the story and pic­ture that troubled me—whose Monogram Club certificate was that on the wall? Even with bi­focals and a magnifying glass I couldn't read the name. So, Paul, how about letting me know? 
Again it Is my sad duty to report the death of a classmate. REV. KEITHEN ROCHE died on January 21, 1954 at Toluca, 111., where he has been pastor of St. Ann's Church for the past 14 years. Keith was ordained in Rome In 1929 and ser\ed In many parishes in Illniois prior to becoming pastor at Toluca. He was buried In his home town of Peoria, III. May his soul and those of our other departed classmates rest in peace. 
As this column Is written the thought occurs that a lot of years have gone past since June, 1926. And that only 26 months remain until our 30th Anniversar>'- Tlie days go fast now and that reunion will be on us before we realize. So, how about starting now to plan for it. Your secretary has not discussed the reunion with R^VY DURST, our president, but I'm sure he'd like to have all the suggestions possible to make our 30th reunion a memorable one. How about sending your Ideas to the address at the head of this column? Remember—LET'S MIX IN '56! 
I QOT ?*^^1^ Ronay 2829 Appletrcc Lane South Bend, Indaina 
A letter from ARTHUR DENNEHV, '30, a member of the New York Alumni Club's Ca­reer Clinic Committee, informs your secrctarv that D/\N F. CUNNINGHAM, who can always be counted on to give a helping hand to a worthwhile project, has become chairman of that committee. Anyone who isn't familiar with the purpose and activities of this committee should see the March Issue of "Sign" magazine and read "So You're Looking for a Job." 
BILL CO^'NE writes from Florida that he is finding surcease from the political clamor of Washington and the legalities of Federal Hous­ing on the w-arm sands of Miami Beach. I haven't seen Bill on a hill of sand since he and I graced the beaches of Lake Michigan, but I'm sure he is a more Imposing figure in a swim suit today than some twenty years ago. 
Father JLNLMY MORGAN has left the Air Force and Is back in parish work In the Cleve­land Diocese. My Informant put him in Youngs­town, Ohio. 
JOHN W. BRENNAN, vice-president of the American Blower Corporation of Detroit, made his 
 Father Hesburgh at a luncheon on his trip 

periodic visit to the campus and stopped to see his classmates on the faculty. John also spoke to the graduating engineering seniors at their annual Communion Breakfast sponsored by the Alumni Association. 
JOE BOLAND Is chairman of the Area Divi­sion of the ftve-and-one-half million dollar St. Joseph County Hospital Development Drive and In charge of the solicitation of funds outside the city of South Bend. 
GEORGE MEAD has recently had conferred upon him the Knighthood of St. Gregory the Great and the Papal Medal. The ceremony took place In the Cathedral of St. Peter, Erie, Pa., with a reception following the ceremony in the Cathedral Preparatory School. The Most Rev. John Mark Gannon, Archbishop of Erie, confer­red the honor on George. 
WALTER "RED" SMITH, sport columnist for the New York Herald-Tribune has been named a contributing editor for The Sign, national Catho­lic magazine. 
ANDREW N. GALONE has recently been pro­moted to the staff of the General Accounting Supervisor, Bell Telephone Company of Pennsyl­vania. He has been with the company since graduation at Notre Dame and his present ad­dress is Union Trust Building, Third Floor, Pltuburgh, Pa. 
EVERETT C BROWN has been retired from the Los Angeles Police Department and Is now an Inspector of ammunition at the Navy Base, Hawthorne, Nevada. 
TOM HEARDEN who has been serving as foot­ball coach at St. Norbert College In Wisconsin for the past seven years recently signed a con­tract with the Green Bay Packers as assistant football coach. 
mo o Louis F. Buckley IT^O 1253 North Centra! Ave. Chicago 51, Illinois 
I regret to announce the death of Professor ^VM. H. DOWNEY of Notre Dame on January 10 in Niles, Michigan. Although Bill was with our Class only one year as he received his Master's degree in 1928, he was very much interested in '28 Class activities. He wrote at the time of the Reunion expressing his regrets at not being able to attend as he was in Puerto Rico visiting his daughter. Mrs. Downey, in acknowledging the Mass arranged by our Class, mentioned that Bill was "so proud of our 1928 Class Report." 
TOM HART has our most sincere sympathy on the death of his mother on November 28. Please remember BILL DOWNEY and TON! HART'S 
• mother in your prayers. Tom, as you know, is 
 to Colorado and the northwest. 
ROCKFORD—^Thc newly formed Rockford alumni club officers include (L. to R.): James Dunn, Foundation city chairman; Mike Lorden, pres.; Jack Sulli\'an, vicc-pres.; Tom Kecgan, secy.; Harold O'Connor, treas.; and Len Condon, Foundation Governor. 
now resident manager for the Employers Group Insurance Companies in Columbus, Ohio. 
It is a pleasure to give you nch's of a num­ber of men from whom %vc have not had a report in years. ART ZIMMERM.\N' is Comptroller and Assistant Treasurer %vilh the Fabricon Products, Inc., in River Rouge, Michigan. Art, like GEORGE COURY has two adopted children. Art's fellow Michigan classmate, LEO WALSH, has three adopted children. JOHN LYONS has one adopted son. Art was with Marshall Field for a number of years and went to Detroit in 1935 with Fisher Body. He mentioned how much he regretted having to miss the Reunion. Art saw NEIL AMIOT at the mo\-ie of the Georgia Tech game. 
JOE BAIRLEY is a construction engineer and superintendent with Rockcrctc Inc., in Dearborn, Mtcliigan. Joe lives in Monroe, Michigan and has eight children. 
JIM CO\VXES is practicing law in Shrcve­port, Louisiana. Jim has three cliildren, the young­est being only ten months old. 
JOE DeBOTT wrote from Geneva, New York where he is manager of Brodcrick's Men's Ap­parel Store. He is still a bachelor. Joe reports that he \-isited JIM CONNER in Elwood, In­diana. Although Jim has been bed-ridden for the past several years, be is able to run . his coal and fuel business from his bed. Drop a- line to Jim at 1114 South A Street in Elwood, Indiana. JOE DeBOTT mentioned that SWEDE SHROE­DER visited him and JIM BARRY and secured a promise from both of them to attend our 30­year Reunion. Incidentally, Swede is vacationing in the Virgin Islands. LEO WALSH also was in the Virgin Islands and in Puerto Rico in March. 
J. F. (SAM) DUN'NE is mill manager for the Farmers Rice Growers Cooperative in Sacramento. California. Sam has two children. Classmates planning a fishing, hunting or camping expedi­tion should try Sam's culinar>' creation "Creamed Trout on Rice" which is described by Sam in The Rice Journal for October, 1953. 
Two other classmates should be added to the list of those who arc responsible for the high birth rate in the Class. DR. JOHN GOCKE, a physidan in Los Angeles has seven children and FRED SWrrZER, an attorney in St. Louis, has six children. 
RICHARD SCHILDER is an engineer in the plant lay-out department of Frigldiare Division, General Motors Corporation in Moraine City, Ohio. Dick is married and lives in Chillicothe, Ohio. 
ED QUINN reports that he heard from his first roommate, JACK CULLEN, who is in the Industrial Appraisal business in Buffalo, New York. Jack's boy is entering Notre Dame next year. Jack was with us during our Freshman days. Ed also brought us up to date on three other old students, HARRY FROUENFELDER who is in business in Collins^ille, Illinois, MAU­RICE SONDERALVN, President of a furniture factory in Jasper, Indiana and RAY NOVAK, a banker and insurance agency owner in northern Iowa. Ed also received a letter from his old sophomore roommate. CHARLIE CONNELL. Charlie is in insurance and farming at Paducah, Kentucky. Ed advises that LES CARRIG'S son at Notre Dame reports that Lcs is in the live­stock business in Omaha. 
RON RICH sent me a newspaper clipping an­nouncing the appointment of ERNEST V. (Dutch) RIEDER as superintendent of Detroit Edison's sLxth power plant now being built at River Rouge which will house the world's largest steam turbine generators. Dutch lives in Trenton, Kficht­gan where he is president of the Trenton School Board and Public Relations Director for the Breton Woods Association. He is married and has two boys, ages 12 and 16. Our Class is well represented at The Detroit Edison Company with VINCE STAGE, Assistant to the Manager of Purchases; ART SCHEBERLE, designer; and JOE SIMONIN, Assistant Division Engineer in the De­sign Engineering Department, in addition to Dutch Riedcr. Incidentally, Joe Simonin has three children, ages 12 to 19. His oldest daughter is attending Mercy College School of Nursing. 
Your vice-president, ART CANTY and your Class Secretary eacli became a grandfather in January. Just to prove that Art Canty and I are contributing to the great melting pot, I might mention that my grandson's name is John Fran­cis Bukacek and Art's is Linda Ann Giacopuzzi. ED QUINN, FRED RUIZ, "DOC" FORGE and ED McCLARNON have two grandchildren each. GENE FARRELL is also a grandfather. Please let me know of others who should be added to this list. 
Thanks to the assistance of Miss Irene Trip­pel of the Alumni Office, I am able to give you a list of '28 men with sons at Notre Dame at the present time. They arc as follows: GORDON BENNETT, PAT CANNY, LESTER aVRRIG, PHIL CENEDELLA, MAURICE CONLEY, FRANK DONOVAN, PETE GALL/\GHER, JIM INGRAM, JOHN LEITZINGER, HENRY .MASS­.\IAN, ED .McCLARNON, \VM. McGEE, JOS­EPH S. MORRISSEY, ORVILLE MURCH, HAYES MURPHY, THOMAS NOON, RONALD RICH, AL SCHNURR. NORB SEIDENSTICK­ER, J.ACK SHEEDY, FRED SUTFZER, ED THOMAN, CHARLES ^\^LLIAMS, and JOHN WOULFE. John F. Beggan, the son of our de­ceased rlassmate, FRANCIS BEGGAN, is also at Notre Dame. JOE S. MORRISSEY has two sons in college at Notre Dame. MIKE RICK'S twin sons arc second year students at Holy Cross Scminar>-. 
Classmates with sons at other colleges include the following: ART CANTY (California State Poly College), ED DUFFY (two sons at Prince­ton), EUGENE FARRELL (Columbia), JOE KIN^NEARY (Ohio State), ED McCLARNON (Milford Novitiate), JOHN GOCKE (UCLA), WM. O'NEILL (-Georgetown), FRED RUIZ (Loy­ola of L. A.) and J. A. JOHNSON (Michigan State). 
Those with daughters at college include the following: FRANK HEGARTY, WALT TOUS­SAINT, BILL O'NEILL (St. Marys-of-the-Woods), AL DAVIS and CHRISTIE FLANAG.AN (St. Mary's, Notre Dame), JOE BREIG (Notre Dame, Cleveland), ART CANTY (Notre Dame College, Belmont, California), JOHN CARROLL (McMur­ray and Cornell), BILL DO^VDALL (Rosary), ED DUFFY (Trinity), JOHN GOCKE (Mt. St. Mary's), AUGIE GRAMS (St. Catherine's, Wis­consin and Mt. St. Mar>), BERNIE LOEFFLER (Stephen's), NORB SEIDENSTICKER (Catholic University), JACK SHEEDY (Dumbarton), BILL KIRWAN (Clark), ED McCLARNON (St. Eliz­abeth's) and J. R. SIMONIN (Afcrcy). 
You will note that each of the following have three children in college: JOHN CARROLL, ED DUFFY, AUGIE GRAMS and ED McCLAR­NON. Please let me know who should be added to the above lists. 
FATHER MARK FITZGERALD had an arUcle entitled "Private power—and public too'* in the January 30, WS^ issue of **America." He also was responsible for the outstanding conference 
on collective bargaintog and arbitration held at Notre Dame in February, I was pleased to have been one c£ the 600 who attended this success*­ful conference. ED RAFTER mentioned that he saw an aru'cle by BOB GR^\HAM in Taxes—The Ta.x Magazine, December, 1953, entitled "Alter­native Routes for Effecting Tax Free Transfer of Corporate Business.*' Bob participated in a round-table discussion at the Annual Federal Tax Con­ference at the University of Chicago in October. FR^\NK CREADON had an ardcle in the 1953 Life Undcr^vritcr Gold Book on business insur­ance. An article by I^VRRY WINGERTER, Presi­dent, American Transit ^Vssociation and of the San Antonio Transit Company, appeared in "Mass Transportation," January 1954, entitled **What Docs the Future Hold?" He also had an article entitled "Management's Role" in the April 1949 issue of that magazine and one in the July 1, 1936 issue of "Forbes Magazine" entitled "Mod­ernization Brings New Life to the Street Rail­way." 
BERT J. KORZEN, who has been acting as attorney for the Board of Election Commissioners of Cook County has been selected by the Demo­cratic Party as its candidate for Clerk of the Probate Court of Cook County. RAY DRYMAL­SKI, '29 is the Democratic candidate for Chief Justice of the 37 judge Municipal Court of Chi­cago. Bert and Ray arc associated with BILL KEr\RNEY and DICK PHELAN In the practice of law in Chicago. JOHN LYONS, Judge of the Superior Court of Cook County and past presi­dent of the St. McI High School Alumni ^Vssocla­tion, received the "Melman of the Year" award from that school this year. Other classmates from St. Mel's include ED R.\FTER, ROY MULLI­G/VN, BILL CRONIN, JACK MULLEN and BILL DOW'DALL. 
JACK L/WELLE was a speaker at the foot­ball testimonial banquet at Notre Dame. BILL KELLY tells mc that Jack recently signed a -contract with the baseball Giants. 
ED. J. BRENNiVN, Director, Department of Central Services of Cook County, has been kept busy as the Chairman of the Committee on Public Records of the Municipal Finance Officers Association of the United States and Canada. BILL JONES was engaged in making plans for the Red Mass as Secretary of The John Carroll So­ciety In Washington when FATHER FITZGER­ALD and I vbited him there in December. Bill also continues as a member of the American Bar Association Committee on Professional Ethics and Grievances. 
Our Class of 1928 sur\'cy continues to receive recognition. BERNIE GARBER referred me to an article in the December 1953 issue of The Homi­letic and Pastoral Review where the study was given considerable emphasis In an article entitled "Arc We Understanding the Laity?" The Janu­ary- 1954 issue of The Service—Letter of the Po­litical Science Committee of the Institute of Social Order carried an article by Father Hartnett, S.J. entitled "Political Participation: A survey of a 25-year College Class" which was based on a special analysis made by me of the question­naires In our sur\ey. The article emphasized, among other things, the relatively high correla­tion between legal training and political activity. DENNY DALY called my attention to a comment by Dan Herr in his column, "Stop Pushing" with respect to the sur\*ey In the November 1953 Issue of Books on Trial. 
I continue to receive letters commenting on our 25-year reunion. Mr. DICK ^VEHS wrote that he got a tremendous thrill out of seeing, once again, most of the chaps with whom he spent four years in school. MIKE RICKS after mentioning that he enjoyed every minute of that momentous oc­casion obsen.-cd that friendships were easily re­newed and seemed even warmer and more stable than during college da>-s because the members of the Class of 1928 were, and always will be, true friends. 
While In Kansas City recently, I saw GEORGE McHNEY \vho is •\^ce President of George K. Baum and Company, investment banking. He has four children. HENRY MASSMAN was out of town when I was there. I understand that Henry has five children ranging in age from 15 to 22. In addition to being President of the Massman Construction Company, he served as a Director of the K. C. Chamber of Commerce last year. 
A recent visit to St. Paul enabled me to see my Corby Hall roommate, DENNY DALY, and also TOM MAHIN. Denny, who has two sons, continues to practice law and teach tax law at the University of Minnesota. TOM MAHIN, who also has two boys, is special agent for the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company. Tom has been District Deputy of the K of C since 1950 and has conducted 85 major degrees in Minnesota, Wisconsin and North Dakota. Speaking of the K of C's, I noted recently where JIM SHOCKNESSY, Chairman of the Ohio Turn­pike Commission was the speaker at a dinner In Cleveland following the Fourth Degree exempli­fication ceremonies. 
I stopped in Hopkins, Minnesota to see EU­GENE O'BRIEN but missed him. Gene is Secre­tary-Treasurer of the Review Publishers, Inc., there. He has five children ranging in age from 6 to 20 years. 
My Freshman Hall roommate and best man, JOE BRvVNNOX, ED McSWEENEY and I got together for a good session in Chicago in March. Joe is Scars District Manager for Arizona. Ed, who is a bachelor. Is with Scars In Chicago. He mentioned how much he enjoyed the Reunion. Joe and his family live In PhocnLx, Arizona. They have three children, all under 11 years of age. 
.•\n evening spent recently with WILLARD AVAGNER, my Freshman and Sophomore Hall roommate, gave us an opportunity to reminisce concerning the Reunion. As you all know. Wag did his usual outstanding job in making the Reunion a success. He is a manufacturer's agent with headquarters in South Bend. 

BERNIE GARBER and his wife were godpar­ents for LARRY CULLINEY'S fourth child. Larry is now Ii\-ing in New Haven, Connecticut. FRANK CRE^VDON called my attention to a picture of Mrs. CHRISTY FL^\NNAG.\N of Port Arthur In Life Magazine for January- 18, 1954 in an article entitled "Life Goes to a Businessmen's Lunch." I saw BILL KIRWiVN when he was In Chicago to attend the Furniture Mart this winter. Bill has a furniture store in Iowa City. He has two children. BILL H. MURPHY is now District Manager for the Dlversey Corp., with Wisconsin, Illinois, Missouri and Iowa as his territory. Bill promises to give me a report on the '28 men in these States. He Is still a bachelor. JOHN Cf\RROLL retired from the contracting business in August and spent the winter in Florida. He expects to return to Springfield, Illinois where he will become Secretary of the Weaver Manu­facturing Company. A. GORDON BENNETT has been appointed Secretary of The Buffalo Courier-Express Inc. 
The following '28 men joined your Class Sec­retary at the Annual Notre Dame Chicago Qvb breakfast following Mass and Communion on De­cember 6 and heard Father Matt Walsh C.S.C. give a very interesU'ng talk: FRANK CREADON (Metropolitan Life), MIKE LAWLER (Coca Cola Company), BILL MURPHY (Dlversey Corp.), HOWARD PHALIN (Field Enterprises Inc.). ED RAFTER (Internal Revenue), BILL LEAHY (Wm. H. Leahy Co.) and BERT KORZEN and DICK PHELAN (Crane, Kearney, Korzen and Phelan, Attorneys). MIKE LA^VLER'S sister is married to EUGENE PHILLIPS who is with Pure Oil Co. Eugene has one son who Is in service. Our Class President, FRANCIS CREA­DON, had to miss singing with the PauHst Choir at Old St. Mary's that day in order to join us at the Communion breakfast. 
JOHN IGOE gives us the following newsy re­port: 
"I am just back from a holiday in California and this is being written on time that I might well devote to the pile of papers, invoices, tabu­lations that have engulfed my desk. But I had a wonderful time and would like to tell you about the Notre Dame men I met. 
"First off, I called JOE DALEY the old Rock Bottom kid from Los Angeles. We had a fine phone visit but he was just recuperating from a bad cold and could not carry out any meet­ing plan. However, he sent his younger brother, Doug who played the role of host with an aplomb that made our visit completely memorable. Doug and Joe are active in the printing business and doing a typical Notre Dame bang-up job. 
"At the rally I met CHARLES MURPHY who has switched his allegiance from Ogden, Utah to California. Charley Is with North American Avia­tion and but for the gray in his hair, is still the same dapper fellow who In our day was a pin-up boy at St. Mary's. 
"Do you remember 'Big Bad' DAN CON­LEY, who with ART DENCHFIELD used to give Father Gallagan hyper-tenslon lest they walk through the walls of Sophomore Hall. Well, I met Dan at the rally. He is still big, still af­fable and now Vice President of a bank in ^Vashingtoa or Oregon. 
"ART CANTY and his good wife came by to take us to the game, and the slow flow of traf­fic gave us a wonderful chance to visit. Art Is 
CLEVELAND—A testimonial dinner was given by the club lor Msgr. E. J. Seward, who was recently made chancellor of the Cleveland diocese. (L. to R.): Rt. Rev. Msgr. >Villiam L. Newton; Msgr. Se^vard; and Flo McCarthy, club president. 
in the legal department of Prudential Insurance and certainly an avid booster for California. 
"Roaming about the lobby of the Statlcr is our worthy mate JACK LAVELLE who liaWng seen the Cleveland Browns tn action had wandered far from the New York GianLs. CHARLIE ROHR was on hand too, to complete Ins season tour with our team. 
"Talked with JOHN WALLACE but missed an appointment with htm. John is comfortably settled in Los Angeles and armed with all the lofty phrases the Califomians use in describing their countr>% their climate, their scencrj", their any­thing. DICK HAXOUSEK was also on the scene but he was too bu5>' for a dullard like me to catch. 
"Failed in an attempt to contact MERV AG­GELER. He is connected with the District At­torney's office and apparently devoted all his wonderful encrg>- to his law practice. 
"On the way home we had a short slop-over in Chicago, and spent part of it doing some hasty Christmas shopping. Met PAUL TOBIN and his wife and had a long, long visit in the busiest cor* ridor in Marshall Field's store. Wc got most of the problems solved that confront parents, gos­siped about our kids, our friends, our trip—and Unally were shoved apart by the impatient shop­pers who, and correctly &o, looked askance at 
It was so good to sec so many '28 men among the N. D. Foundation chairmen appointed by Father Hesburgh including the following: \VM. A. HURLEY, Springfield, Massachusetts; JOHN J. WINGERTER, Ashbury Park, Ne^v Jersey; AN­THONY CERES, Perth Amboy, New Jersey; JOHN LARSEN, Geneva. New York; JOHN FONT AN A, Columbus, Ohio; ALFRED SCHNURR, Sanduskv. Ohio; PHIL BERTHI­AUME, PorUand, Oregon; LEO McINTYRE, Al­lentown, Pennsylvania; TOM TRAUGHBER, Nashville, Tennessee; GEORGE SARGUS, ^Vheel­ing, West Virginia and AUGIE GRAMS, La-Crossc, Wisconsin. The interest of the Class in the N.' D. Foundation was indicated last year when we achieved a new high in Reunion Class giving to Notre Dame. 
The large number of classmates who responded to my January' request for biographical data are responsible for another newsy column fuintaining the names of 136 classmates. My thanks to them and to those of you who have replied by the time this reaches you to my follow-up request sent to those who had not responded to my January letter. If you are one of the few who has not yet returned the completed form of bio­graphical data, please do so at once so I can con­tinue to give you news of all the classmates in this column. I am also appreciative to HOWIE PHALIN and ED McKEO^N^N %vho took care of my mailings and picked up the checks for the entire cost. 
May I make a special appeal to the bachelors in the class since only a relatively few of them responded as of March 26 to my January re­quest for a biographical report. The single men who replied are: B. P. "BILLY" WOOD (Law, Santa Fe, New Mexico); DICK ^\XHS M.D. (Au­gusta, Georgia); CYP SPORL (Insurance, Nc*v Orleans); PHIL O'CONNOR (Eastman Kodak, Rochester); JOE HANEY (Law and Wa>-ne Coun­ty District Attorney, Newark, New Jersey); JOE DeBOTT (Retail Clothing, Genera, New York); and J. CARROLL PINKELY (Retail Drug-., Portagcvillc, Missouri). 
RON RICH had an opoprtunity to see a couple of classmates in connection with a trip he made to attend a meeting of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers in Washington. Ron visited DICK AV'EPPNER and his family in Hyattsville, Mar>'land. Dick has four children. One son is studying cliemical engineering at Johns Hopkins and anotlier is a freshman at George­town. Ron also saw BOB BANNON in Cra\vford, New Jersey. Bob is a professor of metallurgy at Newark College of Engineering, ^\'hile in New York briefly, Ron called JOE REPETTI but didn't reach him. 
FRANK CREADON, while attending the American ^losquito Central Association meeting in New York recently, called CHARLIE SHELAN­SKEY at Westhampton Beach, L. I. N. Y. Charlie, who is a Commissioner of Public Works, is married and has three children. Frank saw 
GEORGE E. HARBERT, '18 

The new president of the American Title Association is George E. Harbert, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1918. George is owner and president of the DeKalb County Abstract Co., Sycamore, III. He served in the Navy during World War I and was admitted to the Bar in 1919. 
George is a past Grand Knight of two Councils of the K. of C , past president of the Holy Name Society of St. Mar)''s Cliurch in Sycamore, and past director of the Sycamore Chamber of Commerce. "While living in Chicago, prior to liis present residence, George taught Real Property Law at John Marshall Law School and has lectured at the University of Illinois. Many of his articles have been published in va­rious law college periodicals. 
Two of his sons are also in tlie title business %vhile a third is studying at the Salvatorian Seminar)' at St. Nazianz. Wis. His eldest son was killed in World War II. George maintains an active interest in Notre Dame afTairs and as Class Secretary for '18 fiunishes tlie ALUMNUS witli news of men in that group. He is a member of Bishop Shell's "Club of Champions," an award given for liis work assisting with C.Y.O. fund-raising in Chicago. 
JOHN WINBERRY of Rutherford, New Jersey-f! who had just returned from a meeting of ihe'^ Foundation Governors and Chairmen at Notre '-'i: Dame. \­
Father JIM McSHANE, S.J., offered his an­nual Mass for the living members of the Class of 1928 fMi the last Sunday of April. 
LOU NORMAN is in Chicago making arrange-? mcnts for bringing the General Motors 1954- ;; Motorama to Chicago this spring. Lou is a. "T member of the Public Relations Staff of General | Motors Corp., in Detroit. He mentioned that v he has seen C/VRL PETTERSCH who is Chair-\ man of the Social Science Dept. at Danbury -^ State Teaclicrs College in Danbury, Conn. Carl p received his Ph.D. degree from Columbia Univcr-_ sity in the field of educational research three years ago. Both Carl and Lou are married. 
Others in tlie class who have received Ph.D. degrees include: ^\NDY BOYLE (N. D.), Acting Head of the Dept. of Chemistry, Noire Dame; ART STENIUS, (Ohio State U.), Professor of I Education at Wayne; BOB FOGERTY, (Minnc-i sola U.), Professor of History, St. Thomas Col­lege; JOHN WORDEN, (Buffalo U.), Head of Dept. of Biology, St. Bonaventure; HENRY PER­SYN, (N. D.), Manager, Chemical-Pilot Plant, \ Reilly Tar & Chemical Corp., in Indianapolis, and Father MARK FITZGERALD, C.S.C, (Chi-\ cago U.) As!K>ciate Professor of Economics, Notre Dame. Are there others who should be added to this list? 
It was great to hear from C. JOHN (DOC) FORGE after all these years. John and I started with Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., immediately after graduation in 1928. I left after three months, ^vhile Doc stayed with them and is now Assistant District Manager in Omaha, Neb. John's first wife died in 1945. He remarried in 1947. His oldest daughter, and the mother of Doc's two grandchildren, died in 1953. He has six liv­ing children ranging in age from 14 to 21. One son is in the Air Corps, another at the Univer­sity of Omaha and a daughter at Ursuline Col­lege. Doc mentioned that he sees ED BRESNA­HAN at church In Omaha. The graduation of Doc's daughter last June interfered with his • attending the reunion. He would like very much to see any '28 men who \'isit Omaha. 
HENRY HASLEY recently was master of the Fourth Degree K. of C. ceremony for Northern Indiana which was held in Hammond. 
109 Q Don^d J. Plunkctt " 'M^t Biology Department Notre Dame, Indiana 
Larry Stauder, Acting Secy. Engineering Building Notre Dame, Indiana 

RAYMOND M. HILLIARD has recently been appointed assistant director of the Cook County Welfare Department. Ra>-mond has been execu­tive director of tlie Welfare and Health Council of New York City and is credited with ousting communist sympathizers from the welfare depart­ment payroll in NYC. 
^Vhen you come to the reunion June 11, 12. and 13, by all means bring along a picture of your family. Facilities will be provided in the protected arcliway of Lyons Hall (our class headquarters) for effective display of these photo­graphs. Tliis feature of last year*s reunion was a highlight. 
Your local committee and JIM ARMSTRONG'S office are well along in making detailed arrange­ments. Those who come will be completely and economically accommodated. Tlie success of the reunion will be determined almost entirely by the attendance. An incomplete tabulation of DON 
The Class of '29 Reunion Committee met to discuss plans for their 25th anniversary on 
June 11, 12 and 13. Standing (L. to R.), Paul Bartholomew; James Keating; Francis Jones. 
Seated (L. to R.): Larry Stauder, acting class secretary, Don Plunkett, Reunion 
chairman and class secretary. 
PLUNKETT'S recent questionnaire indicates that Baldwin, L. I., N. Y.; FR.\NCIS M. FLYNN, 90 percent of those who have replied expect ^ to Bronx, N. Y.; JULES GROSSMAN, Gary, Ind.; attend. He had had ahout one hundred replies. LOUIS F. HANEY, Ne^vark, N. Y.; JOSEPH He would like many more. 
P. H/VRTNETT, JR., Bronxvillc, N. Y.; RICH­ARD E. HiVUGH, Delphi, Ind.; JOSEPH P. 
Your local committee met March 22 to go HISS, Oakland, Calif.; PAUL D. HOL/\HAN, over the suggestions made in your replies, and to Cleveland, Ohio; JOSEPH JACHYM, Westficld. 

make plans to put the more popular ones into ^fass.; EVERETT JEWELL, South Bend, Ind.; 
effect. One suggestion often repeated was "Let FR.VNCIS JONES. South Bend, Ind.; CH.\RLES 
the men visit—too many plans can break up the H. IwVISER, Indianapolis, Ind.; FR/\NK P. 
group." 
KxVNE, ^f.D., Binghamton, N. Y.; KARL A. 
If the local committee could make a plea to 

K/VSCHEWSKI, Jackson Heights, N. Y,; JAMES vou it would be *'takc a good look at the names E. KE.VTING. South Bend, Ind.; JAMES P. which follow. Pick up the phone and call a KENNEDY. Chicago, III.; KENNETH J. KO-neighboring classmate—whether he be listed there NOP, L>Tidhurst, Ohio; .VNTHONY J. KO-or not—and make plans whicli will bring you PECKY, Riverside, 111.; JOSEPH H. KRAKER, both to Notre Dame.** Akron, Ohio; AMLLLVM H. KRIEG. Indian­You could write to your old roommate, or to apolis, Ind.; Rev. THOXf/VS J. L.\NE. C.S.C., otlicrs listed in the class directory. Corby Hall; JOSEPH V. LENIH.\N. New York, 
N. Y.; Dr. EDWARD J. LYONS, Philadelphia, If you need 399 reasons why you and they Pa.; JOHN J. LYONS, Chicago, HI.; MICKEY should return to this 25th year reunion, use tltese: (THOS.) ^fcMAHO^^ New Orleans, La.; THOM­AS MARKEY, Washington, D. C ; KARL E. MARTERSTECK, Cleveland, Ohio; ROBERT A. 
1. To see the thirty campus buildings added 

since '29. 
McVETY, Flushing, N. Y.; FRrVNaS D. MEYER, 

2. To again visit the Basement Chapel, Sorin ^fun5tc^, Ind; EUGENE A. MILLIFF, Rocky 
Hall Chapel and others. River, Ohio; PETER J. MORG.VN, Trenton, N. J.; AVILLLVM L. NEFF, Mandan, No. Dak.; 
3. To visit with the priests of your time and LOUIS F. NIE2ER. Ft. AVayne, Ind.; %VILLIAM those of your sons' time. 

E. O'REILLY. Detroit, Mich.; JEROME OUEL­

4. To visit with your former professors. LETTE, Miami, Florida; DON PLUNKETT, South Bend, Ind.; JOHN J. RE.AGER, Perth 
5 to 399. To visit with the following class­^\mboy, N. J.; CILVRLES W. SCHLIECKERT, mates who plan to be here and with three JR., Trenton, N. J.; CLETUS SCHNEIDER, hundred others who are still to be counted: 

Lakcwood, Ohio; REYNOLDS C. SEITZ, Mil-GEORGE J. AITKEN, Hyatts\illc, Md.; ROB­xvaukee. Wis.; THOMxVS C. SHE.\, .Afanchester, ERT N. ALT, Grand Rapids, Mich.; HAROLD Conn.; W. R. SIDENFADEN, Arcadia, Calif.; 
A. BAIR, Fresno. Calif.; JOSEPH T. BARNETT, JOSEPH SMIET.VNKA, Chicago, III.; JOHN V. Ogdcnsburg, N. Y.; PAUL BARTHOLOMEW, SMITH, Syracuse, N. Y.; LARRY STAUDER, 
South Bend, Ind.; GEORGE A. BR/VUTIG.VM, South Bend, Ind.; Dr. JOHN L. SULLIVAN, Miami, Fla.; AHLLTAM E. BRO;^ , Epworth, New York, N. Y.; ROBERT VOGEL^VEDE, Iowa; FR/VN'CIS J. BUCKLEY, Canonsburg, Minneapolis, Minn.; FRED WAGNER, Tiffin, Pa.; HENRY L. BURNS, Kenmorc, N. Y.; Ohio; JOSEPH WHALEN, Des ifoines, Iowa; CHARLES COLTON, Taunton, Mass.; Rev. \VIL-Rev. OTIS WINCHESTER, Cleveland, Ohio (most LIAM J. COUGHLxVN, C.S.C., Portland, Ore.; mentioned *29'er in the poll); ALOIS ^\'ELZEN­WILLLVM F. CRONIN, Oakland, Calif.; GER­BACH, SR., Los Angeles, Calif.; F. M. WON­
ALD J. CROWLEY, Newton, Mass.; J.VMES M. DERLIN, Des ^^oines, Iowa; JxVMES YATES, CURRY, Great Neck, N. Y.; EDWARD C. De-Detroit, Mich. BAENE. Detroit, Mich.; EDWARD J. DELE­HANTY, Denver, Colo.; M. A. DIETER. Rus­
a DON McCOLL wxites: SCIUTIIC, Ark.; JAMES E. DIGAN, Logansport, "I am living in anticipation of attending our Ind.; FRiVNKLYN E. DOAN, ^Vilmette, III.; 25th Reunion next June. Except for attending 
S. A- DURBIN, Dallas, Texas; JACK P. FARR, occasional football games on the campus, I have 
not visited our Alma Mater since graduation, or rather since my graduate year. 
*'Here*s the dope on this *29'er if you care to use any of it: 
*'My wife is Gervase and the children are Roberta Rose. 16, Tom, 14, Chuck, 13, Beverly Jean, 9, and Patsy Ann, 7. 
"I am currently a boys* counselor and referee in the Toledo, Ohio, Juvenile Court where I have been since 1945. Following completion of this course in the Boy Guidance Graduate School in 1930, my first assignment for the next five years was Managing Director of the Boys' Club of St. Louis, Missouri, part-time instructor in Sociology at St. Louis University, and Boys* Case Worker for the St. Louis Childrens* Aid Society. 
"For seven subsequent years, after directing the Denver Cathob'c Charities Camp Santa Maria in the summers of 1933 and 1934, my professional work kept me in Detroit, Michigan, as Assistant Director of Tau Beta Community House. From 1942 to 19H I was Executive Director of the Omaha Social Settlement and also Instructor in Job Relations at the Martin-Nebraska Aircraft Corporation during the \Var. 
"Hope to sec or hear from GEORGE MONROE, CHARLES *BILL' HEINEAL\N, GEORGE 
•CLAYT WANEK and many others. "Sec you at the Reunion, Larry!" 
109 A Devere Plunkett I Ta u O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
TOM LANTRY is in the real estate and in­surance business with his address reading Lantry and West, Inc., 16 Mill Road, Tuckahoe 7, New York. 
JAMES A. ALLEN, LL.B., is Claims Supervisor for the Lumberman Mutual Casualty Company with offices at 4750 Sheridan Road, Chicago, III. 
JOHN T. MORAN has been named Resident Manager of the ncvf \Vhite Plains, New York, branch of the Allstate Insurance Company. John formerly was manager of the Rochester, New York branch. John's wife, Corinne and three chil­dren, Donna, 12; Jack, II; and Joseph, 6^ . are residing in Rochester pending completion of a new home in White Plains. 
ROBERT L. JACKSON, M.D,, professor of pediatrics at tlie State University of Iowa and national authority on rheumatic fever and nu­tritional problems in children, has been appointed chairman of the Department of Pediatrics effec­tive this coming September. Bob Is married and has three children. 
Members of the 1930 Class were shocked to learn of the death of PAT GOGGIN'S 4-year-oId boy, Michael. He was killed in a sledding acci­dent January 20, 1954. His other boy, Patrick, age 9, ^vas badly Injured in the same accident, but has recovered. Ever>*one will want to remem­ber Pat's family prayerfully in this tragedy. .-Mso prayers should be continued for deceased class members: J^VMES T. CONNORS and JOS­EPH J. McCORMICK. 
Several 'weeks ago a one page questionnaire was sent out to all members of the 1930 class. It asked only a couple of simple questions and tried to elicit comment from everyone on things and stuff. The returns were excellent, and some copies are still coming In. In the next few issues of the Alumnus I am going to get all this in­formation Into the column. Moreover, from the number of mentions of the 1955 Silver Annie reunion, it is evident that that event is upper­most in the minds of many classmates. It should be noted right here that through the efforts of RAY REARDON, class president, JLM ARM­STRONG, JOHN CACKLEY and myself, the early planning for the 25th Reunion Is being mapped out 14 months in ad\*ance. 
Getting on with news of the 1930 people, we cite the follomng: 
MctVLOON, LEO R.—with ivlfe, Agnes (Coo­ney), and dilldren, Leo R. Jr., (19), Nancy (17), Vincent the 3rd (14), Sheila (12), and Terrance (9), Leo R. is stM in Pawtucket making out as Funeral Director, Racing Ex­ecutive, Travel and Tourist Agency Owner. Leo's dad is still active in the funeral busi­ness (since 1900). Right now Leo is lerving u Racing^ steward at Narragansett Park, lin­coln Downs and Scarborough Downs Tracks. 
yotre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1954 39 

He said he gave up basketball ofliciating and baseball umpiring awhile back. He came out for the ND-SMU game last fall, but saw no one he knc\*' around the stadium. He WTOle, "A year ago I went on a diet . . . dropped 90 pounds, from 284 to 193, in II months. Don't try it unless you have to, as it is ex­pensive. Clothes don't fit. . . can't cat what you like. I now hate the sight of grapefruit, tomato juice, and eggs.** Thanks for the redpe, Leo. I will pass it on to JIM ARM­STRONG and JUDGE LENSIXG. 
SETTER, EDWARD G.—with wife, Mildred and son Bill (15) still makes his home in Lexington, Missouri .. . in the hardware business. Ed said he had a couple of letters from Father JlSt RIZER and ART KANE, and is still waiting news from BOB AVARD. Was at ND for the North Carolina game in 1952. Looked in vain for LOU HASLEY and DEV PLUNKETT. Prior to retail hardware business, Ed was commissioner of Social Serv­ice in cit\* welfare department, Kansas City, Mo. 
LENSING, FRED AVENDELL — Law>cr and president of a building supplies business. Fam­ily includes wife, Helen, Barbara (22), and Robert (16), all living in Evans\-illc, Indiana. Is looking forward to the 1955 reunion and wants to hear of some of the plans. 
MILLER, JOHN H.—Has been working for the State Road Commission and State Health Dcpt. in West \'irginia, most of the time since graduation. Asked to be remembered to PROF. SHILTS. John's family: wife Delorcs, Mary E. (12), John L. (9), Edxvard J. (5), Richard L. (1). Older children attend Sacred Heart Catholic school in Charleston. Home: 1517 Huron Terrace, Charleston, W. Va. 
PETERSEN, ARTHUR E.—Ought to be down around ND way in June, 1954, as Art, Jr., graduates in this year's class. That e^-ent should bring all the Pctersens into South Bend: wife June (Hoene, St. Mar>'*s *30), Anne (16), Robert (14), Mary Kay (II), Bett>- (7), Wil­liam (1). Art, Sr., still Ejtec Pres. of the Petersen Furniture Co., Chicago. Lives in Ei.-ans­ton. Another big summer event of 1954: young Art*s wedding. 
McKAY, GERALD E.—Already making plans and drawing up budget for his reunion trip in 1955. Salesman with National Cash Register Co. Will likely come down from Minneapolis to reunion with JOHN YELL.\ND. Still waiting on word from John. Gerr>''s family in Minneapolis includes wife Mary Esther, Kathleen (10), Gcr­aldinc (7), Jane (5), (John (3), and Mary Frances (15 mos.) 
HAND, FRANCIS JOHN—Medic, eye-ear-nose­throat. Has a son, David, a freshman in Cavan­augh Hall now; also another son, Tim, is a fu­ture prospect for ?JD. Dr. Hand's daughter, Ellen, enters New Rochelle in fall of 1954. Often thinks prayerfully of FATHER "WENNINGER and FATHER NIEUWXAND. Would like to hear soon from JACK SIGLER and DON BOYCE. 
ASHMAN, CHET—still manufacturing chairs in Morristown, Tenn. Always appreciate getting Christmas card from Sara and Chet Ashman. Saw the last ND-Tulane game in Nola, and the last Army game played in South Bend, but failed to note any 1930 men around. Hear BILL SHER­MAN often on the radio out of Knoxvillc. Closes with this sage comment: "All I can report is that I am a hard working guy, firmly believing that all work and no play makes Jack; and sticking to thb theory so I can retire at any early age and enjoy puttering around and doing things that I can't find time to do now. By the way, you don't think the ripe old age of 90 is too old to do any puttering, do you?" 
O'DONNELL, JOHN J.—has a son, Michael (18), and 2 daughters, Alice (10), and Catherine (8). John is industrial relations manager for the Lummus Co. in NYC. The last '3D fellow he ran into was LARRY CRONIN in Chicago. John served on the Advisory Committee for the Labor Dept. when Sec Durkin headed up the dcpt. Has been President of the National Construc­tors Asso. John still resides in New Jcrse>-. 
HINSENKAMP, HENRY E.—oldest son gradu­ated from ND last June, and was commissioned in the Navy. Expects daughter Marlenc to enter a Catholic girl's college in the fall. The last fellows from ND that Henry ran into were Dr. GEORGE HEWSON and Dr. PAUL O'CONNOR. Would like to get some word from JOHNNY 
M. CLAY AD.\MS, '26 

One of tJie most outstanding writer-producer-director personalities is M. Clay Adams who received his degree from Notre Dame in 1926. He was formerly with Twentieth Century-Fox and RKO-Pathe Studios in Holly\vood and as film director for Henry Salo­mon helped to make Victory at Sea— an outstanding tele\asion history of naval operations since 1939. It was produced by National Broadcasting Co. 
Clay has been in the motion picture industry for over 15 years. During World War II he served in the U. S. Navy as a producer-director of train­ing and special purpose films. In 1949 he was appointed manager of the Com­mercial Film and Television Depart­ment of RKO-Pathe and also produced the color film Strategic Attack for the 
U. S. Air Force. 
He has received awards for his work in the television field. The Sylvania Certificate of Merit was given to Clay especially for directing Victory at Sea. 
QUINN and BILL WALSH. Henry is a super­vising cost accountant, lives in Plainfield, N. J. 
CASSIDY, JACK—is assistant dist. sales man­ager for Kaiser Aluminum, New York. His fam­ily numbers wife Josephine, Jim (15), and Tom (13). Said he saw LARRY CRONIN and TOM LANTRY at the last Penn game in Phila. Also ran into ED DEMPSEY and FRANK MOSHER of Brooklyn recently. Miss most of the NY club meetings now as travel interferes. Passed through So, Bend the day of the last Nav>* game. Saw no one around of the 1930 crowd, not even at the stadium booth. Expected to see BOB HOLMES that day at the game. Tell ED CON­ROY of San Antonio to drop a line. Incidentally, I have a notice here of a luncheon in March at which Ed Conroy was awarded a life membership in the American Social Hygiene Association. 
GOODM.AN, MORTON R.—lav.->er, living in Beverly Hills, Calif. Unmarried. Alumni he re­cently contacted were CHARLIE GASS, practic­ing law in Los Angeles; BOB EGGE^!AN, ditto in Ft. ^\'ayne, and AL AVELZENBACH, my former rommatc. now living in Cal. Mort mentioned that BENTLEY RYAN, '32, heads up the Beverly Hills Bar Association. 
POUDRIER, BROTHER RUPERT. C.S.C.—was Headmaster of Notre Dame High School in Sher­man Oaks, Calif., 1947-50. In 1950 he had a severe heart attack which necessitated his resig­nation from NDHS in the San Fernando Valley. He was then sent to teach a light schedule in the Notre Dame International School for boys in Rome, Italy. There he had another attack, and has returned to this country. The California NDHS is a school with 770 boys and a faculty of 25 Brothers and three laymen; it is owned and directed by the Brothers* Province of Congregation of Holy Cross. This thriving school was founded by Brother Rupert. 
CUNNINGHAM, FRED L.—Public accountant in Portland, Oregon. Family includes wife, Len­ore, Fred Jr. (19), Richard (14), Michael (II), Elizabeth {13), Kathleen (7), and Mary Fran­ces (3). Has been a steady attendant at the local alumni affairs. Oldest boy is engineering student at Portland U., and second boy is a freshman at Columbia Prep, both Holy Cross-schools in the Portland area. With all the notes we are getting from Pacific coast people, there ought to be a special plane excursion arranged for the 1955 reunion. 
MARCUS, JOHN R.—is an auditor for Stand­ard Oil, Jolict, III. John's wife, Catherine played the organ and sang for wedding of daughter to-RAY SNYDER, former ND English prof. (Inci­dentally, John, Ray Snyder will soon be a neigh­bor of mine.) Asks for word about BILL MAY of Peoria. John expresses best wishes to his cousin. Father MARCUS McDOAVELL at Portland 
U. The two younger Marcuses, Bob (18) and John (17) should be on their way to ND some time in the near future. 
LAWLER, THOMAS G.—of AVhite Bear Lake. Minn, (^fan, that sounds like a good place to fish!) Tom is a salesman for Schalk Chemical Company (when he isn't fishing!). The last ND fellows he contacted were LARRY ENRIGHT, NORM LILLIG and CHARLEY KLEFEKER. Hopes to hear soon from TOM DAFFRON, DOUG DALEY, FELIX ISHERWOOD and BILL SHERMAN. Tom has a Tom, Jr., 12 years old. Ought to be down for the reunion next year (if he can leave that fishing alone for a few days!). 
MOTZ, JOHN E.—Newspaper publisher (The Kitchener-Waterloo Record). Lives in Kitchener, Ontario. His children are: Bill (20), Rosemary (18), Margaret (16), George (10), Ann (6), Paul (4). Recently contacted AVARREN FOGEL in New York and LOU HASLEY at ND. Hopes to have son. Bill, enter ND next fall. His neighbor in Kitchener is JOHN J. WINTER­MEYER, '39, w*ho is running a prosperous law business. 
KENNEDY, CHARLES J.—wrote in from the Mater Dolorosa Retreat house at Sierra ^ladre, Cal., where he was making hb annual retreat. Charlie told of the death of his mother in E\-anston last May. The funeral brought together the whole family. Gene, '22, Larry, '25, John (Purdue '18), and his sisters Alice Gallagher and Frances Dixon, both St. Mary's grads. Burial was in Lafayette, Indiana. I know, Charlie, she will be remembered in the prayers of many '30 class­mates. Charlie is an engineering change co­ordinator for Air Research Mfg. Co., in Los Angeles, Spoke of enjoying the company recently of DOUG DALEY and his wonderful family. 
RIST, PAUL—is supervisor of the Design Sec­tion, Arizona Public Service Co., at Phoenix. Paul went out to Arizona in 1946. Has found an active ND club there, and an equally active ND ^vivcs* auxiliary. Paul, his wife Beatrice, and son John (14) live at 6815 Ltnoa Lane, in Phoenix. 
SOPER, ROBERT L.—is supervisor of Occupa­tional Therapy, New York state dept. of Mental Hygiene. Bob Jr., is a second classman at West Point and daughter Gale is a student nurse at 
The Notre Dame Law Association sponsored a luncheon for ND la^vj-ers in attendance at the Indiana Bar Association meeting, held in Indianapolis. (L. to R.): Father James £. Norton, CS.C , vice-president of student aiTairs; Clarence J. Donovan, Law Association pres­ident; Patrick J. Fisher, chainnan; Dean Joseph O'Meara; and William Fitzgerald, president of the Indiana State Bar Association. 
Philadelphia General Hospital. Bob's other chil­dren arc Charles (14) and Matthew (10). Bob has been in occupational therapy In New York alncc 1932; is vice-pres. of the civil semce as­sociation of the state of N. Y. The last ND fellows Bob visited with were BOB KELLY and CHARLEY KLEFEKER. 
BELJON, JON—musician, organist at Our Lady of Peace Church. Jon and Eleanor Beljon have five children, Jean Marie and Bonie at Hoban High, Jon Jr., Billy and Brenda. Another is ex­pected in Afay. Jon should be commissioned to start immediately on composing the 1955 Reunion song. Jon*s address is Pioneer Trail, Aurora, Ohio. 
MILLER, DUiVXE M.—is manager. Production Control, Willys Motors (Aluminum Forge Division). Duane's family in Erie, Pa., includes wife Bea­trice, Helen (17), Marv (16), and Thomas (14). He saw MORT REIDY of Tulsa, Okla.. around Christmas, 1952. Hopes to be out for the re­union in 1955. Should be a big turnout from Pa., and Ohio in June, 1955. 
ENGL.\ND, EDWARD J. "SPIKE"—is in Los Angeles, executive of U. S. Spring and Bumper Co. Wife Jean (Brady, St. ^fa^>•*s '31) and daughter Ellen, who attends Mt. St. Mary*s College in L. A. comprise the family, residing at 
12121 San Vicente Blvd., L. A. Spike wrote: "Spent 4 years and 8 months in Naxy stationed at Naval Training Center and duty in South Pa­cific. While on duty at Ulithi met FATHER NOR­TON—thought he was a Jesuit—didn't find out he was an ND'er until about a year later when I read about him in the ^Vlumnus. Father had quite a collection of humans to oversee—he did a fine job out there—ask him about his congregation on the isle of Fassassari. Was with TIM MOYNI­IL\N a few times during the war and visited with him just a few days before his tragic death. Also saw JACK CHEVIGNY a feu- days before he shoved off. JACK ELDER called at the house on his way to Frisco in latter part of 1945; also had a visit with MOOSE KR^VUSE at that time. See Mx\RT\'' BRILL once in a while. Hear from MOON MULLINS about every 3 to 5 years. Would like to hear again from REBEL ELDER Visted the campus in October, 1952. Needed di­rections from the cops to find my way around. Had a nice visit with Father DICK GRIMM, FATHER MURRAY, FATHER NORTON, PAUL FENLON and DICK SULLI\^\N. Would like to hear from OONIE DONOV/\N, the Bedford flash who now belongs to the Fireside Tribe and also W1LLLV.M BLAKELY JONES, the Voice of Wash­ington, D. C." 
SHERMAN, WTLLIAM N.—Radio announcer of 

SAN ANTONIO—Check for $1205 from alimmi club is given for retreat house building campaign. L. to R.: Joseph C. Repine, vice-president of club; Club President Ralph T. Stnihs; Ralph J. Garza; and Mike Conley, 5ccrctar>-. 
Knoxville. Requests data on the 25th anniversary reunion. Announcements on that event will reacii you very shortly. BilFs children are WiHiam C. (13). Tom More (12) and Moetkl Anne (4). 
TOOifEY, TIM—Insurance business. New York City. Bachelor. Tim writes of the New York Alumni Club special fling to PhUly last fall and of other alumni matters: 
"TIM 0*ROURKE had the N. Y. Club Special rolling and arriving in Philly on time for the kickoff. 
"The O'Rourke Rambler was a social and fi­nancial success for the Notre Dame Club of New York. 
"Tim really does a tremendous job each year on the promotion of these' special trips. 
"WARREN FOGEL. HENRY FREY, TOM BRADLEY, TOM LANTRY and GEORGE WINK­LER all ^vere aboard the Special as well as in at­tendance at recent local club meetings. 
"George tells me he has a son at the University. How time flies! 
"The sons of members of our class will soon be at the University In large numbers from here on in. I believe PAUL FARMER has the distinc­tion of being the first member of the class of 1930 to have a son graduate from the University. 
"During the telecast of the home footballs which we enjoyed very much In a neighborhood mo\-ie house, we spotted COZY KOZAK on the sidelines. 
"Good ole 'Cozy* is as much a part of the football picture at school as the scoreboard. 
**My kid brother, Dave, known to many of our class slipped me the info that JOHN MORAN was Chainnan of the Boston Club Penn game special. 
"Mayor H\'nes of Boston was one of the guests. His Honor has a son studying at school. 
*''John is a prominent member of the City of Boston Administrative Cabinet and is doing an outstanding job. 
"JOE LENIHAN, '29, brother-in-law of JAMES and JOSEPH FRIEL, '29, told me he had a most pleasant \-isIt with Father JIM RIZER last fall while in Richmond, Va., on business. 
"Joe stated the *Sky Pilot' was in excellent health and spirits and would be pleased to hear from all members of the class. 
"I receive mail regularly from FATHER JAMES and sort of act as his' *local booking agent.' He is presently accumulating 'leave time* so he can pre\'ail upon his superiors to grant him a few extra days to be at our 25th Reunion In 1955. 
**For those wishing to drop the Padre a note— the address Is Rev. James L. Rizer, St. ^fary, Star of the Sea, Fort Monroe, Va. 
"T. (Timothy) LARRY CRONIN, has left these here parts to take over an Important public relations assignment with a large 'bev­erage' concern In Milwaukee. No! It Is not the one to which the boys of ND sing praises. 
"Tim was alwa>-s a \'aluable ND Club worker here in Nc^v York and later In Ne%v Jersey and we know the ^lilwaukee crowd will be pleased to have such a staunch ND helper In their midst, (.•\slde to De^*—make (Larry) Chairman of Refreshment Committee for Reunion—Right now!) 
"WALTER DONNELLY, '29, called to tell me that last fall he met JACKSON 'BUS* REDGATE and TOM MURPHY at a prep school football game in Connecticut. 
"Honest Tom was one of the officials and Wal­ter's son one of the players—so the contest had to be 'on the square.' 
"'HOOLEY' S.MITH—the famed brothcr-xn-law of DAN CANNON turned in another outstanding prep school football record. 
"Year in and out Howard's scholastic squads are unquestionably the best in the Greater New York area. 
"EDDIE ELLSWORTH was recently elected to the Board of Governors of the Notre Dame Club of New York. 
"He Is co-chairman of coming Club Retreat at the local Passlonlst Monastery. 
"ART DENAHY is doing a splendid job help­ing to promote the highly successful Career Clinic sponsored by our local club. 
"Due to the weather at Franklin Field, we did not get a chance to go down on the turf after 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ Afay-June, 1954 41 
:T-^-rf-.it-_-T-.-^/-7—-^^•.•. ->»-«-Tv; ^ 

^^mm ^-A 
m 
TRI-ClllES—^Thc cluVs annual luncheon with students attending as guests %vas held in Davenport. Henrj­
the game, where we usually meet a number of dassmaics and friends. 

"We did meet up with JACK CASSIDY, who could qualify any day for the Friel Brothers 'Man of Distinction' ad. 
"One of our business friends brought back news of JOHNNY MCCARTH Y of basketball fame. 
**John is employed by tlic Royal Liverpool Group—also my employer. He is a special agent with headquarters in Springfield, Illinois. 

"On Jan. 9th, the evening following ND's crushing victory over the heretofore and not since beaten Holy Cross quintet in Boston, we were \-isiting JAKE JACHYM '29 at his home in Wcst­iield, Mass. 
"Joe has several relatives who attended the 'Cross' and of course he took them in tow for a few small wagers. 
"Joe told his kin 'If you can't beat us— join tis* *Salutc!' He opent-d up tlte scrap book of the 28-29 season and tlicrc right down in front was brother 'Mack.' 
"Jake was twice captain of ND basketball teams during our time at scliool. Some of the great players of those days couldn't make it today. Too small! 
"He is at the present time associated with the school 5>'stcm in Wcstfield, Mass., in a coacli­ing-supervising-teaching capacity*. 
"Wc had a nice \isit with our old roomie, TOM SHEAf '29, during the past summer. 
"T. C. resides in Manclicstcr, Conn., and earns his dole from Hamilton Propellors. 
"Tommy u-as the first of the Faculty Dining Hall waitrrs, which back in tliose da>'s was bet­ter than eating on the training table. 
"During a x-acation tour of the Bcrkshires last summer wc were graciously entertained by FRANK KELLY, '28 of Lee, Mass., \%-ho has a success­ful furniture-undertaking establishment. 
"Frank, his lovely wife, Eileen, and the 7 healthy young Kcllys proved to be delightful hosts and really gave us the Cook's Tour treatment of the beautiful Massachusetts Hills. (A plug for the home state.) 
"We learned BOB BRENNAN, '29, resides in nearby Pittsficld and has a son who has been declared a real big league baseball prospect. 
"All of our classmates must remember the B&B combination Brennan and (the now Iowa jurist) BOB BRANNON. 
"It has been truly said, 'If you are at or near some important place in America you arc bound to meet some one from Notre Dame—if you stand there long enough.* N'cst ce pas? (One semester of French.) 
"Tliis past summer, while in the Berkshires, I got shanghaied into one of those long haired concerts at the Tanglewood ^fusical Festi\'al in 
AVurzer, '25, "vvas chairman of the affair. 
Lenox, Mass. The first person I meet? None otlier than ED TIGHE, '22, former president of the local NY Club. 
"^\^l^lc strolling douTi 5th Avenue window shop­ping, after a \-isit to St. Patrick's Cathedral on "Washington's birthday, I was pleasantly sur­prL«cd to meet a longtime and alu-a>*s helpful friend, DAN H.ALPIN and his wife, the charming Peg. 
"I have seen Dan often throughout the years, but it was hard to \"isualize Peg as the mother of a sophomore at Seton Hall College in nearby East Orange, New Jerse\-. 
"Dan has an executive sales position with Du­^lont Television. 
"Tell your brother, Dcv, all the members of the class of '29 I spoke lo arc anxious to get back to the Campus for the 25th Reunion. 
"I hope members of our class will start jump­ing on the 25th Reunion Bandwagon right now witli suggestions and other offers of aids, so wc can have the biggest and best reunion in tlie history of the school. 
"Wc recently had a chat with JOHN MORAN of Oak Park, III., baseball fame. He is connected with the .All State Insurance Co., having re­cently been transferred from Rochester to New York City. 
"John has a housing problem and is seeking a suburban home for the family, who is still re­siding in Rochester. 
"Class members who might be traveling in New England and arc near Bennington, Vermont arc urged to pay a visit to Father DAN GLEASON, C.S.C., in diarge of the Holy Cross Nowtiate in that beautiful community. A real Notre Damer! 
"Dev, feel free to call upon all members of the Class for help in connection w^th the 25th reunion plans, I am certain they will consider it a prixilcgc to be asked to help. 
"Give my best to all my friends at school.'* 
109 1 James T. Doyle I TO I 902 Oakton Street Evanston, Illinois 
My appeal for contributions towards a fund for Masses for deceased classmates and tlie promotion of our 25 year Reunion in 1956 brought several checks and interesting news. Thanks to TOM ASHE, CHARLIE CUSHWA, JR., BOB KEN­DALL, EARL BRIEGER, GEORGE JACKOBO­ICE, JOHN C. BURNS and JOSEPH R. FAR­RELL '15. Checks from the following attend­ing a Foundation meeting at Notre Dame came together: "Four of tis here for the Foundation meeting and decided it would be a good idea to furnish bail. If, in your official duties, you have found it necessary to replenish funds from slightly ofT-color sources, you can have no qualms in accepting these contributions. I am sure all but mine represent monc>' acquired in nefarious ways. Hope you arc doing well on the fund and that you will keep on doing this good job for the class.*'—CHARLIE CUSHWA. 

"To the JIM DOYLE 1931 Alumni Enterprises from tlie GEORGE JACKOBOICE Relief Fund.*' "It is a pleasure to send you tliis little start towards a fund. The '31 Class has been well rep­resented here as you can see. Keep up the out­standing job you arc doing."—BOB KENDALL. "Here is a start for your 25th Reunion Fund. $10.00 from wc four, and bcHcvc it or not, $10.00 from a 1915 grad, so let's get ready for a real reunion. Congratulations on a grand job."— EARL BRIEGER. I wrote Joe Farrcl! thanking him, but will acknowledge checks from class­mates in this column. Funds will be on deposit in the First National Bank in a joint account with GIL SExVMAN, EDDIE RYAN and myscIL 
TOM ASHE has made several attempts to get together w-ith me during stops at the airport and finally, in Fcbruar>', •wc were able to connect. Tom was on his return trip to California after the funeral of his father at Rochester, , N. Y. We had a fine time reminiscing about many *31 men. I met his brother, Ed, and his family. While back east Tom saw JOHN DORSCHEL and RED CALLAHAN. He frequcntiv sees GENE CALHOUN in L. A., and saw BOB CAHILL at the Michigan State game. We talked of FRANK LEDDY, who is in the shoe business in Pasa­dena. Tom suggested we be sure that MATT CULLINAN is on hand for the 25-Year Reunion to give tis his Arabian travelogue, ^Vhilc in the Navy, Tom ran into DAVE "AJAX" NASH at Fort Schuyler and saw FRANK BUTORAC in tlie Pacific 
I received a note from the Alumni Office that WILLIAM HOLMES, a student in 1927 and 1928, passed auay at Coming, N. Y. JEROME ^L\D­DEN died last August in Covington, Ky. Tlie sympathy of the class is extended to their fam­ilies and to Tom, Ed and Gerald Ashe on the death of their fatlier. Mass offerings for our classmates will follow. 
Mrs. ROBERT L. NEYDON sent the follow­ing note: "Thank you very much indeed for the Mass you asked Fr. Margraf to say for Bob. I do want you to know that Peter, Robert, Ann and I deeply appreciate your kind thoughtful­ncss. John and !NIary arc a little young to un­derstand, but I am keeping all the Mass cards to show them when they are older. I wonder if I could ask a favor of you? After the December Alumnus came out, X received a number of beautiful letters from friends and classmates of Bob's who had not heard of his deatli until then. Tliey all referred to the writcup in the Alumnus, which I have not seen. If you could procure au extra copy and send it to me I would be so grateful. I do want to keep all those things for the children to read when they arc older.'* 
From Mrs. J. JOSEPH CONLEY, I received the following: "We have received your kind let­ter and arc very grateful to you for passing the news of Joe's death on to his classmates. ^Vc are pleased to learn that Fr. John Margraf will cele­brate a Requiem High Afass for the repose of his soul. Our children Join me in thanking you and the Class of 1931 for this kind expression of siTnpathy." 
FRAN HOLL.\ND attended the ND Club of Chicago's Communion Breakfast at the La Salle Hotel and saw WALT C/VHILL, BILL LEAHY, DON PARTLAND, GIL SEAMAN and MARTIN DOWNEY. FR. MATTHEW >VALSH celebrated the Mass at new St. Peter's Church and gave a wonderful talk at the breakfast. Frank also saw PHIL ANGSTEN, whom he reports, can still tell stories with the finesse of his college days. Frank's sister, Evelyn Menncs, attended a St. Mary's Alumnae meeting with Doris Bro­mana Fox in Miami. 
Our Club held a Afonte Carlo party at the Blackstone Hotel in February. Looking very trim in black tics were GIL SEAMAN, EDDIE RYAN, JACK SCHMITT, DON OTOOLE, AL STEPAN, CARL CRONIN and JIM DOYLE. Gil si retir­ing as president of the ND Club of Chicago and is to be commended for the progress of the club during ht$ term of office. 
I wrote FRANK NOLL and received the fol­lowing: "It was very pleasant to hear from you, Jim. I don't see or hear from the Chicago boys much an)'more. I didn't make the 20-year reunion at Notre Dame in 1951. BILL HABING and AL\URICE MULREY are about the only t^v'o Indianapolis boys I sec around here from the '31 class. I spend my time between my law office in Bankers Trust BIdg., and my position as Administrator, Intangibles Tax Division of the State. It's best to address mc at 412 Bankers Trust BIdg. I talked to Frank on the phone the other day and hope to sec him in Chicago soon." 
BERNIE SHAF is now office manager of the Western Department of National of Jlartford Group. ED RYAN sa\v HAROLD STEL2ER at the St. Afel High School Banquet. R/\Y DONLON is now with the St. Clair Title Co., in Belle­ville, Illinois. JOHN FETZER made a trip to New Mexico in February. JIM MULVANEY made his annual trip to NYC and so far I haven't had a telephone call so JOHNNIE BURNS come through with a. letter the other day to bring us up to date. ^'Jim MuK'aney made his annual conven­tion trip to the city for ^father Coupon Ticket Division—Commercial Controls Corp., arriving Feb. 28th. I had several visits with him at the New Yorker before he planed back to Chicago Mareh 3rd. Jim played host to BILL KELLY, '28, TIM TOOMEY, '30, ED (STRETCH) MA­HON, DICK BARBER and myself on March 1st. We had a few toasts at the hotel before dining, we had an unexpected visit from BILL LEAHY, of Chicago, who happened to see Stretch meandering through the dining room. 
The Notre Dame Club of ^cw York had a large gathering at a meeting March 4th in the Hoivman Room of the Biltmorc. It was in honor of JA.MES McGOLDRICK '39, club member and newly elected president of the Alumni Association. Fr. JOHN J. C/WANAUGH spoke of the Dis­tinguished Professors Program and also held a question and answer forum which was most in­teresting. President JIM CLYXES, on behalf of the club, presented Fr. Ca\'anaugh with a check for $1,000 to be used in furtliering the Pro­gram. ED CUNNINGHAM and myself were the only '3Iers present. Did see GUS BONDI, JOHN 'LEFTY* MORAN and JOHN J. C/VSSIDY, all of tlie class of *31. Had a pleasant visit with JIM GALLAGHER, his charming wife, Lorraine and his two youngsters, Mary Jane and Jimmy Jr., just before the holiday's. Jim is reaching aldcrmatic proportions, but promised to be on hand, s>'Iph like, for tlie 25th Reunion. En­closed you will find a contribution for the class fund. That's it for now, Jim. My regards to your family and any of the boys you may see in the Chi area." Tlianks John for a news-­letter and your check. I think Bill Leahy is a so and so for not phoning after his trip to New York. 
I ran into BERT METZGER who has returned 

TWIN CITIES—A check for §1,000 is presented to Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C., for the novitiate building fund by alumni club members in St. Paul and Minneapolis. L. to R.: James Rogers, '53,' secretary; Carl Eilcrs, '50, vice-president; Father Craddick; Paul Kennedy, '40, president; and John Connelly, '53, treasurer. 
to Bowman Dairy Co., in their Wholesale Divi­sion. TH*\D ZELOWSKI now has seven children. TONY DIAZ read about CLAY AD.\MS in the Nov.-Dec. Alumnus and wrote me for hb address. He got out his 1931 Dome to make sure he re­membered me and told me to look him up with the Junior Class pictures on page 120. He sent me another interesting letter which I hope to reply to soon. Dear Jim; 
**I had the pleasure of receiving your letter dated January 25 and I am so pleased with your let­ter that I would like to congratulate all the members of tlie class of 1931 for choosing as their secretary a person endowed with your good qualities. Frankly speaking Jim, it is letters Uke yours that make us feel that wc are near you and near Notre Dame although we are so far away. I live in the southeast comer of ^fexico and I do not have opportxmitics of seeing other Notre Dame men. Only when I go to Mexico City do I have that pleasure or when I go to the U. S. And now with the rate of exchange at $8.^ to $1.00 you can imagine how difHcuIt it ts for us to traveh AVhen I was studying there it was only S2.00 to $1.00 so it was easy to travel. 
"Thank you ver>- much for sending me CLAY ADAMS* address. I have already writtea him a letter. I also wrote a letter on January 13 to JAMES K. COLLINS, secretary of the 1932 class to which I belong, asking him about some of our • schoolmates, but I have not yet received his answer. Perhaps he does not remember me. Some of my classmates from Chicago that I re­member very well are NEIL HURLEY, OLIVER POWERS and BENJAMIN SALVATY. Also Vflh-LIAM COMEFORD and THO^U S O'AIALLEY from Aurora. If you see them, please give them my best regards and if you have their addresses please send them by airmail and I will appre­ciate it very much. 
".\bout three weeks ago I received a \'isit here of FAUSTO GAMBOA of Havana, Cuba. Fausto entered Notre Dame in 1931. He married last December 26th and took his honeymoon trip 

HOUSTON—^The club's annual retreat was held at Holy Name Retreat House with the follo^ving in attendance: standing (L. to R.), William M. Garrett, John R. Yoimg, John B. Lenihan, Rev. Conleth Overman, C.P., retreatmaster and also an ND grad, B. N. Brockman, Jr., George McHale and Lawrence J. Kelley. Seated (L. to R.): Thomas B. Brennan, Paul J. Doyle, club president, Leighton F. Young and James A. Young. 
LEO J. VOGEL, '17 

Leo J. Vogel has pioneered and de­veloped many outstanding develop­ments in the tramway field and has brought Aerial Tramways into promi­nence with the major producers of raw materials and the material conveying business in general. 
Leo has liis own sales and construc­tion organization in Pittsburgh, Pa, His organization handles tlie sales of Aerial Tramways and conveying equipment for Interstate Equipment Division, Yara Engineering Corporation of Eliz­abeth, N. J. 
The company has built tramways throughout the coal and ore regions of this countf)* and many foreign coun­tries, including the heavdest tramways ever built. 
He graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1917 in mechanical engineering. His two sons are alumni of Notre Dame and his daughter at­tended St. Alar>''s College. 
Leo is the past president of tlie No­tre Dame Club of Pittsburgh and has given his continuous support to all uni­versity projects since graduation. He has five grandchildren; two grand­daughters and three grandsons. 
through Mouco visiting friends and schoolmates and on his way back to Havana st<^iped here one flay to \isit us. You can imagine how glad I was seeing an old schoolmate whom I had not seen in so many years. I took Fausto and his wife up to my house to meet my wife, my son, Tony Jr., and my five daughters. My son is 15 years old, my oldest daughter is 17 and my youngest daughter is 16 months. We sat there hours and- hours in a very interesting conversa­tion rcmrmbcring Notre Dame, our schoolmates and some of our professors whom perhaps we sliall never see again, like Fr. JOHN F. 0*HARA, now Archbishop of Philadelphia, DEAN JA&IES £. McCARTHV wlio was not only our professor but also our good friend. MR. HERBERT BOTT, now Head of the Lay Faculty, and many others. 
*'Bclicve me Jim, when Enna Maria, my wife, and I said goodbye to Fausto and Estrella, his wife, in the airport, we felt as if we were say­ing goodbye to members of our ovfn family. I believe tliat is how we all who have attended Notre Dame should feel toward other former Xotre Dame students because after all we are members of a very big family who should be al­ways together or united under that beautiful and beloved name of Our Lady, which is, in my humble opinion, the sweetest and dearest name of all, the name of Our Blessed ^fother. \\'h3t more could we ask? I have always considered the years I spent at Notre Dame as the best years of my life, all of you were so nice to me that I always felt that I was part of you. Geographic­ally, I am very far from all of you, spiritually, I feel I am as close as ever. Conditions here now arc such that I doubt very much if I ever go up there again. Only God, with His infinite wisdom, knows. 
"Pardon me for writing you such a long letter Jim, and pardon me for my mistakes, but I al­wa>*s tr>- to keep up with my English, reading American books and manazlnes and speaking English w*ith as many people as I can. If you have anotlier spare time I would appreciate very much hearing from you again. My wife, my son, and my five daughters join me in sending you our best regards to you and to all your family." 
Ever your friend 
Tony 

DON OTOOLE sent me a letter on the death of PROF. DOWNEY. 
**A great many of the members of our Class wai remember Mr. ^MLLUM H. DOWNEY. who taught several subjects in Economics to our class and many classes following. He died last month, as you no doubt know. A gfcat many of us were considerably impressed by Bill Downey. He and I had remained close friends ever since I left the University. An especially pleasant discover}* which I made recently is that the Economics Round Table is still functioning at Notre Dame. Bill Downey prodded PAUL HOST and me to organize tl>e first Economics Round Table in 1930. 
**Upon Bill's death I wrote to ^frs. Downey and received, in reply, one of the most beautiful letters I hax'e ever read. \Vhile it is quite per­sonal, I am sure that other members of our class share my affection for Bill and would like to know what Mrs. Do%vney had to say of him: Dear Donald: 
*'Lclters have poured in from all over these United States from my beloved Bill's former students. But when a man as busy as I know you are will take time out to write a beautiful tribute to my husband in longhand, I fully rea­lize what a true inspiration he must have been to you. I, of course, always thought he was the most wonderful person who ever lived, and now I find others shared the same feeling. 
*'I have watclicd him suffer great illnesses with­out a word of complaint, but when this heart trondition struck him five years ago, I thought I couldn't stand to see that energetic, enthusiastic, inspiring man lie prone and inactive for any length of time and in a moment of desperation I lamented, *Oh Bill, what else is the good Lord gonig to ask you to suffer?' Donald, I can't tell you what I felt like after his answer which was 'Motlier, bow your head in shame! Don't you know God sends me only what He knows I can take?' That was the true Christian spirit in which he accepted all things. He had to tnirtail his teaching to two hours a morning, rest­ing ever>' afternoon. His leisure time was spent in religious reading and recitation of the Little Office. I was telling my Dominican son that sometimes after Holy Communion, I actually thought he was in ecstas>', because after Moss 
was over and people clamored out of the Church, he wouldn't know it. He would have to be shaken to let others out of the pew. Bill, Jr., explained that that was highly probable, that because of his many years of suffering, God would see fit to elevate him to such a level. I leave you with this %vondcrfuI thought, Donald, and thank you again." 
Sincerely, 
Mrs. Wniam H. Downey 
From REV. C. B. MOTSETT comes this note: 

"Dear Jim: 
*'It is always a real treat to receive the Alumnus so that we can learn from your column about many of our former classmates. The Notre Dame men down here arc still going strong. JOHN BELTON is ver>* active in our parish and takes a great interest in our boy scout troop. His two lovely daughters are our organists. RALPH D.\L­TON I see ever>' Sunday morning, and we told him tliat JOE CONLEY of Bloomington had died of a heart attack. Haven't seen JOE MEFTZLER for some time, but his mother telb me he is still in Springfield. TOM MONAH/VN, the broom corn king, called me one night as he was pass­ing through and invited me to dinner, but because of an early instruction I couldn't make it. I visited DON OTOOLE and his lovely family in December. They tell me he is quite a horseman and fisherman. During the holidays I heard from FRANCIS FLAN'NERY from Seattle, Wash.. CHUCK CROWLEY of Albion, N. Y., and RON SLACK of Medina, N. Y. All of them seem to be doing very well. Chuck Crowley had a sick spell last fall, but now seems to be in the pink again. FR. HAROLD RILEY, C.S.C., of the class of '32, and now Rector of Holy Cross Seminary, gave a magnificent Holy Hours here for us last November. Again, many thanks, Jim, for keeping the bo>'s on their toes for news of the class of '31. Anytime you or any of our classmates are in the vicinity of Danville you will be most wel­come at St. Paul's Rcctor%-, I remain," 
Sincerely yours, 
Bourkc ^fotsett 

In February I saw ERNIE HECHINGER, ex-Peorian and friend of Rev. C. B. at a K. of C. meeting. Ernie is District Deputy for our council. TOM COUGHLIN was in Florida during Febru­ary and called BOB GORE and JOHN C. SULLI­VAN. Tom delicvered my message to Bob Gore for nc^vs and Bob came through with a newsy letter. Dear Jim: 
•TOM COUGHLAN of our doss, called on me recently. Although I was not in, he left a note reminding me you would appreciate some news from this area. Tlie only other member of our class residing here is JOHN SULLIVAN. He has had a very- successlul insurance agency in Fort Lauderdale for quite some time. He is married and tlie father of a son and a daughter. 
"BILL BURKHART was here for some time and associated with radio station WFTL. He has, however, returned to Quincy, Illinois. AL STEF­AN has stopped in twice this year and attended our last Notre Dame Club meeting. JERRY CROWXEY spent a couple of weeks at the Sea Ranch Hotel in Fort Lauderdale. I had not seen JciT>* since I93I and it was a real pleasure to talk with him. 
"GEORGE BRAUTIGAM is of course. State's Attorney in Nfiarat. As for myself, I am married and have four clitldren. Time is short right now for we arc in the middle of another typical Florida season, but I will keep in touch with you more often. GEORGE JACKOBOICE also stop­ped in recently with news of the Grand Rapids area. 
"I do want to take tlils opportunity to con­gratulate you on the outstanding job you are doing for the Class of 1931. Your efforts in gathering tliis information must be considerable since the news furnished tlie Alumnus seems to be complete regarding tlie present uctirities of the members of our class. More success to you." 
Sincerely, 
Bob 
Both Tom and Al Stepan reported on BOB 

BALFE who is sports editor of the Palm Beach 
Herald. Al attended the ND Club of Miami 
meeting and saw Bob and Fitz GORE as well 
as VERN KNOX. I saw Jim Rich recently and 
he told me Vem Iiad several letters from class­
mates as a result of my notes. Vem, how about 
a roundup of news for the next Alumnus? 
I understand DICK LACY has come to life 

again. He was listed as missing on my class list. 
•44 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1954 
DONAL J. O'BRIEN, '29 
Appointment of Donal J. O'Brien of New York as vice-president and direc­tor of advertising and sales promotion for Hiram AValker Incorporated was announced recently by Ross Corbit, president. Donal has been prominently associated with the advertising profes­sion since 1933. Joining the advertis­ing department of Standard Oil Com­pany of New Jersey shortly after graduation from Notre Dame, he later joined Young and Rubicam as an ac­count executive. He was vice-president of the Blow Company of New York at the time of his appointment. 
In his new capacity, Donal wll su­pervise the creation, production and placement of all advertising and point-: of-sale material for the following Hiram Walker brands: Canadian Club, Impe­rial, Walker's DeLuxe and Ten High bourbons. Meadow Brook r>'e, Hiram Walker's distilled London Dr}' Gin, Cordials, Cocktails, Brandies and Vodka. 
I met a friend of the Lacy family from Hartford, Conn., who brought me up to date on him. Dick, I am still waiting for a reply on the letter I sent you care of your mother. 
JERRY CROWLEY invites 'Slcrs to visit him when returning to the Campus and sent the follow­ing letter: Dear Jim: 
"Please excuse this late answer to your letter 
of March 12th. We didn't get to Mexico this 
year and so missed our very pleasant annual 
visit with ED LABARTHE and his family. We 
were in Fort Lauderdale, Florida during Febru­
ary and had several fine visits with Bob Gore 
and his family. Also saw JOHN SULLIVAN at 
the meeting of the very active and energetic 
Fort Lauderdale Alumni Club. Bob Gore, as you 
know, is now a Director of the Alumni Associa­
tion, so we hope to be seeing him occasionally 
In South Bend. Incidentally, here in South Bend 
I have renewed my acquaintance with one of our 
ver>- fine classmates, FATHER ALFRED MEN­
DEZ, C.S.C., who is at the University in charge 
of scholarships. I am very hopeful that some of 
our brethem will manage a ^-islt to South Bend 
at Commencement time and that they will be 
sure to look me up if the>' do. Best regards.'* 
Yours sincerely, 
Jerry 
FR. PHILIP H. DUFFY writes from Seattle: 
"I rtply to your letter of November 6th. Since 
I was out of the city during the month of No­
vember, I have had no chance to look up any 
information about members of the class of 2931, 
and I sec that your deadline is past. If you will 
bother me enough, I will try to do something 
for a future column. I can add one name to 
the list you mention In your letter. ELLIS 
BLOMSTROM of our class makes his home in 
Seattle. I met him at the Iowa game two weeks 
ago. I do not know of any other members in 
this area, but I believe that BEN LENOUE will 
think of some other names. We will both write 
you again." 
Sincerely yours, 
(Rev.) H. Philip Duffy 
How about some news on ELLIS BLOMSTROM, 
BOB PIGGOTP, FRANK FLANNERY and any 
others in the far west? RED O'CONNOR from 
Rockford phoned before Christmas for a few-
addresses. He recently saw CARROLL SIZER and 
attended the Towa game. He was wondering if 
ROCKNE MORRISSEY, a member of the team, 
is a son of JOE MORRISSEY. (Ed. note: Yes, he 
is! J. C) . I saw BOB RUPPE at St. Ignatius 
Church on Ash Wednesday. I hear about, but 
never see or get a phone call from BOB PEN­
DERGAST. Talked to LEO HODELL who says 
that BEN SALVATY is noxv living at 508 N. Vega St., Alhambra, Cal. Saw RED O'CONNELL re­cently and talked about F. X. MURPHY, JR., in his pre-mcd days at ND. He said F. X. had symp­toms of every ailment in the book. Does F. X. re­member the tapeworm he had? Red says that FRANK HOLLAND has been in St. Francis Hos­pital with a back injun.-. SPIKE SULLIVAN and TOM MONAIL\N were up for the Southern ^fethodlst game with their w*ives and invited me to their Morris Inn cocktail party after the game. At the Georgia Tech game Spike saw JIM BIGGINS and ED MADDEN who had driven out from Penns>l\-ania, PAUL GRANT, BEN OAKES, GIL SE.UL\N, ED MURR.\Y, MATT GARRIGAN, JERRY ROACH and BOB OV­HILL. JOHN ABERNETHY gave him an up­to-date report on JOE HUGHES, the Columbus carver. Spike also saw FLO McCARTHY, now living in Cleveland, for the first time in 20 years, FR. MARGR^VF, in returning three Mass cards, sends his best wishes to the class of *31. I sent JIM McQUAID some magazine renewals and got a nice note from him. MYRON HER­SHFIELD saw A. L. BRADLEY, '31, last summer in Michigan City and savs hello to JOE BLAN­EY, FR.\NK KERJES, ED REDMOND and TOM FROST. 
I had a phone call from JOHN DEEB, '50, brother of Joe. Since leaving the U. S. Attorne>''s office Joe has opened his own law firm, Deeb, Dunn & HufTius in the Michigan Trust BIdg. The Joe Deebs had a baby boy in December and now have 5 boys. JOE BOYI^\ND had a heart attack a fe^v years ago and is now on the mend. JOHN PULTI an cx-'31 man from Grand Rapids Is now In San Antonio, Texas. The R/WMOND F. COLLINS' of River Forest have a new baby girl born March 9th. PAUL DUNCAN has a new home in La Grange, III. 
Aid- NICHOL.\S J. BOHLING had his pic­ture in the papers (looks handsomer than he did in the Dome) and has been blasting the CTA on a proposed hike in transit fares. FRANK LEcVHY is a ^-icc president In sales with Exo­thermic Alloys Sales & Service In suburban River-dale, III. 
DAN D. HALPl <, general sales manager of the Televblon Reci vcr Division, Allen B. Du-Mont Laboratories, < nc, has been named a mem­
/• 
ber of the Distinguished Salesman's Award Com­mitte of the Sales Executive Chib of New York. 
If you have enjoyed this bit of newn make good on your promise to write Jim Doyle and do it now. 
James K. Collins 1932 3336 Kcnmorc Road Shaker Heights, Ohio 
A fine letter from TONY DIAZ tells of life south of the border, and asks about many of his old friends. He is the Consul for Honduras at Aferida, Yucatan, Alexico. He is married and has one son and five daughters, ranging from ­18 months to 16 years of age. . 
He asked particularly about the addresses of BILL CONATON, BOB GOR^L\N, JOE GRO­GAN, BILL FITZGERALD, AVEE HARRINGTON, TOM O'MALLEY, CLIFF PRODEHL, JOHN RUSH, CHARLEY HITZELBERGER, NEIL HURLEY, OLLIE POWERS and BEN SALVATY. If any of you fellows %vrite to him, he uses the full family name in Mexico—ANTONIO R. DIA2­NICOLI, and can be reached at the above address. 
Speaking of Cliff Prodehl, he wTOte that he attended the ND Foundation Conference on the campus and saw GENE CALHOUN and LEN CONDON there. Gene is the Los Angeles man­ager for Local Loan Company, and he describes Len as the poor man's Sears and Roebuck in Rockford. 
Cliff says he sees VTNCE DONOHUE regu­larly while he, Vince, Is dividing his time between the undertaking business and practicing law. He is already looking forward to the 25th Re­union and says It is not too early to start think­ing about it. 
BOB LEE told me recently that he was being transferred to the Jacksonville Naval Air Station as legal officer, and will probably be there by the time you read this. 
JOHN LITCHER decided to pass up the soft job in St. Louis, and has moved to Green Bay to open his own insurance business. 
FLO MCCARTHY has been in the news in Cleveland as he, as president of the Cleveland Club, promoted a magnificent Rockne Memorial Communion breakfast. All the head football coaches since Rock's time were here, and the attendance was an astounding 600 plus. Among others there were HUGH BALL, JOHN MATOU­SEK, SARGE RA\VLEIGH. JACK COLLINS, BILL VAN ROOY and JOHN KIENER. 
Mac and his wife welcomed another daughter, Mary Ann, born March 5. She was delivered by that eminent OB, Dr. MIKE CRAWFORD. 
I saw NICK RUFFING in Cleveland recently —he is busily dividing his time between prac­ticing law and operating a construction company which is building a portion of the new Ohio turnpike. 
BILL CONATON is back In pretty good shape again, and went back to work about February 1st. He is selling dairy equipment for a Pitts­burgh company. 
RICHARD G. CANNON has been named by Elgin National Watch Company to the position of chief accountant at the organization's Wads­worth Division, Dayton, Kentucky. Dick is mar­ried and he and Mrs. Cannon have one son, Timothy, age 4. 
BENEDICT W. HARRINGTON recenUy was named Deputy Attorney and has been assigned to the Board of Public Utilities Commissioners in New Jersey. He is married to the former Susan Borden and they have two children, Benedict AV., Jr., and Michael. 
109 9 Joseph A. McCabe I 7^ ^ 632 Forest Avenue River Forest, Illinois 
I'm happy to say that our postcard campaign worked out fairly well, which proves you can make some of our stubborn '33's drink, if you lead them to water (water?) and put their noses in it. 
Seriously, it was encouraging to get the re­sponse we did, and since the cards continue to return, drifting in one or two at a time every other day or so, here's hoping that we'll get a high percentage of returns' before they raise the 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June, 1954 45 

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA—^Thc alumni club honored ND players who participated in the East-West Shrine game. L. to R. (top) Coach Eddie Anderson, Holy Cross; Francis Powers, Chicago .Daily News; A. W. McMuUcn, club president; Bill Cofifman, Shrine game executive- Bottom, Neil Wordcn, Art Hunter, John Lattner and Coach Joe Ruetz of Stanford U. 
postage on the stamp to 3 cents, (llicj- raise everything else, don't ihcy?). 
So if you've got a card at home that you 
meant to fill out and now feel embarrassed about 
mailing it, or wonder whether we'd still like to 
get it—don't be coy, man—give! 
As we go to press, there arc about 150 cards 
returned. Comparing tliis with the class roster of 
600 entries—including honorary degrees, *'ex-cs" 
(mates who didn't get to the finish wire) and 
others—it doesn't make too healthy a percent­
age. But at least three quarters of the caiss 
will learn how the other quarter lives, and by the 
time of the next edition perhaps those happy 
three-quarters will be stirred to the extent of 
sending in a greeting, at least. 

Before getting into the news forwarded by our 150 correspondents I'll ascend my figurative pul­pit and emit a few words on behalf of my favorite devotion—the veneration of the Blessed Mother. The Dominican priests out in River Forest are holding a series of theological lec­tures this Lent, and unlike some efforts on this weighty topic, attendance at these seminars can­not be classed as a Lenten mortification—or so I've found, anyway, (^^^lile I'm at it, I'd like to say here that I see anotlier CSC-traincd man ex­posing himself to Dominican tliinking at these lectures—JOE XASH, '29, who still looks much like he did when he played center.) An>^vay, a good portion of tliese lectures is given to a calm study of the Blessed Motlier's position in theology. I refer to this because most Protes­tants and too many Catholics consider devotion to Mary a matter of sentiment or emotion, mentally picturing a weeping widow witli careworn hands bowed down under a simpering statue of a woman variously sculpted as of any age from 20 to 60, with or without Babe in arms. It's no part of my purpose to decry the honest senti­ment behind the cult—in fact, during dark hours it is a most reassuring thought — sometimes the only reassuring thought—for the sorrowing mind to grasp, this vision of the Blessed Mother smil­ing gravely and encouragingly down upon us from eternity. But aside from emotion, there is as solid a basis of reason and doctrine supporting the position of Mary as there is of Jesus; they are intertwined; and you cannot have Jesus 
Christ and not haxc ^fary. 
"Wc all know tliis of course; I must sound as though I am selling you yesterday's newspaper. But it is a good thing to remember, especially in this Marian year. It was my pri\ilege to give a little talk on the topic before a Holy Name group a month or so ago, and I found in going over the background to prepare the talk I was re­freshed in my knowledge as well as my feeling for the Blessed Mother. A lot of us are simple men, who need simplicity in their doctrines; it is surely an easy tiling to remember tliat (a) Christ chose to come to earth through Mary, when He could have picked any method of appearing; (b) He worked His first miracle solely at her re­quest when He said Himself: "it is not yet My time"; (c) by far the greatest number of ap­proved visitations have been by Mary," and (d) it is sound doctrine that all blessings and graces come through Her. If she has such standing with the Lord, who are we to neglect her? Say an extra Hail Mary—or Rosary, if you have time —every night in this Marian Year! 
AVell, now for my correspondence—ack, ack. You'll never know how good it Is to be able to use that phrase! Since we have so many cards and tlie space in the Alumnus is somewhat limited, I'll include as many as I can, then add to the list in successive editions. Hey—imagine the Alumnus running a continued story! 
To get to the letters first (look—he's boast­ing!): a note from LARRY SEXTON calling at­tention to the fact that Father JIM DONNELLY is working in some very tough vineyarils out in Lampasas, Texas, and could use any extra dol­lars bis classmates can aH'ord to send him. It's a darned good way of fulfilling our obligation to give alms—which is not to be confused with the obligation of supporting our parish churches, in­cidentally. (Ed. note: Don't forget the ND Founda­tion, Joe. J. C) . The latter is a duty of a differant nature. Father Jim's address is P. O. Box 866 in Lampasas. 

Also a nice note from JOE FOLEY, who can be readied in the Standard Building, Vancouver 2, B. C. His working name is M. J. Foley, in­cidentally^better put it on or your letter might bounce back. Building mailmen have no sense of humor. Joe testifies: 
"I was in Denver and saw BART O'HARA. It was my first \*isit to Denver and the first time I had seen Bart for 21 years. It is a strange thing. Wc were talking about you and when I got back to the office this morning here was your letter to all the class of '33. It is good to hear from you Joe. I haven't seen you for many years but I get in Chicago every so often and hope to see vou before long." (Am still hoping. Joe!) 
Also received a nice letter from class treasurer JOHN CrVHILL, who testifies as follows: "I have had quite a few letters from Father Jim Donnelly (he>% all these plugs ought to be worth an Ave for the secretary, Fatlier Jim!) and do enjoy hearing from him. He is still located at St. Mary's Mission at Lampasas, Texas. I am planning on seeing him this summer as we are going to California and will return that way about tlie middle of July. In looking over the '33 roster I see quite a few names I will call while in Los Angeles and San Francisco. (One I strongly suggest you contact is ED *'Mum's­the-Word" MORIARTY, our non-corresponding West Coast v. p. Tell him we'd all love to hear from him.) I had a letter from GEORGE ROHRS around the holidays but have not got aroiund to answering our *prcs' as yet. I do think your idea of the postcard was ver>- good and feel that you will get a good response. If any of the fellows wish to send in money for class dues, will they please send it to: 
Cahill Electric Shop, Inc. 

DLvon, 111. As treasurer, I think I should make a report for tlie class: 
Dues received . ~™ -.$190.00 Expenditures: 
To: Father Jim DonnelIy„ 50.00 On Deposit 140.00 (at City Xatlonal Bank, Dixon) 

Notre Dame grads at Hamilton Standard Division, United Aircraft Corp., Windsor Locks, Conn., include (L. to R.): front row—^Theodore R. Pauling, '52; John J. Wilczynski, *53; Neil E. Butler, '53; Edw-ard G. Hadercr, '53; Floyd Bradley, '47; and Thomas C. Shea, '29. Back row—^Norbcrt A. Neffinger, '47; Robert E. Sheridan, '51; James F, Flaherty, '53; Henry W. McGann, '53. Richard £. Nault, '53, ^vas absent when photo was taken. 
Please notify me of any future deaths in the 
class at once and I will send a card to the fam­
ily and money to Fr. Jim for a Mass." 
Many thanks for the letter and the financial 
report, John. And while we arc on the subject 
of finances, I think it is apropos to urge all who 
have not contributed to send in their class dues 
of $5 to Caliill, at the above address. 
There is also another matter concerned with finances which must be brought up. First, we arc going to need money for mailing expenses involving occasional class letters similar if not exactly like the postcard mailing. As all of us know, mailing expenses can mount very rapidly. The expenses of the postcard mailing were volun­tarily borne by an extremely loyal classmate who asked mc not to mention hts name. But just to give you an idea of what kind of a bill these things can run into, here is the cost for tliat mailing: 
Letterheads, envelopes, and postcards 5 47.44 Printing and processing 21.61 Postage „ . 35.00 
Tolal -104.05 
Yoii can sec what a debt of thanks we owe to our unnamed benefactor. You can see also the need for funds to carry out mailings—and if we don't have mailings, believe me, and I speak from experience, we will have ver>* little class solidar­ity or spirit. But there's only one way we can get tho5c expenses—from the class. We can hardly hold a benefit, or a picnic, for such a widely-scattered organization. So will you, cacli of you. help to defray operating costs? Slail any sum. from a dollar on up, to Cahill, and earmark it for. the class budget, so he'll know it isn't dues. Othcnvisc we'll have to depend on dues for these expenses—and one mailing would ruin the treasury. 
That logically brings up the question of what we're going to do with the dues. Here's the answer to that one: it is a tradition that every class on its 25lh reunion presents a gift of some kind to the university. We*rc not exactly an an­cestor-worshipping class, but that's one custom wc shouldn't break. One of these days George Rohrs will send out his thoughts on the subject, but even without a poll, I'm pretty sure we all want lo give something to make the class of 1933 re­membered for more than the unhappy year in which wc got out. So we hope to save as much of the dues as possible for this. 
And now one last word to those of you who did return your postcards—many thanks for your cooperation, and keep up the good %vork. When­ever you have news concerning any Notre Dame man—particularly a classmate, of course—make a point of jotting it down and mailing it in. De­duct the three-cent stamp from your income tax as a cliarity. 
Now for the cards: (no attempt will be made to list them in any kind of order). 
JIM UPRICHARD, 1240 Chase, Lakewood 7, who has three cliildrcn, and is- supcr^'isor of dis­bursement accounts, Ohio Bell Telephone Co., .says: "Have seen ED KILLEEN, DR. A. J. O'BRIEN, C\' ENTRUP, and had cards from 
CLEVE G\REY and ART BEC\^AR/' 
JOHN GALLA, Blueberry Rd., Bridgeport 10, Conn., four children, who is Supt. of Public Wel­fare for Bridgeport, says: "Saw JOHN COLLINS of Chicago and LEN REGx\N of Great Falls, Mont. Len is a State Representative. He mar­ried Rosemary* Gcis of St. Marx-'s. They have four children, two boys and two girls." 
LAURENCE R. SMITH, 1201 N. Sheridan Ave., Pittsburgh 6, Pa., who is sales representative of the McBee Co. Larry, also, is president of the ND Alumni Club in Pittsburgh. 
Here's one I couldn't decipher. Will the plant manager of a plant in Tarrytown, N. Y,, who lives at 116 Tappan Landing Rd., spell out his last name for us again—print it, this time? First name William N. 
HERBERT G. MYERS, 1603 Fawcctt Ave,, Mc-Keesport, Pa., three children, who is manager and partner of an auto parts store, says he has seen no one. 
TOM ENRIGHT, 3053 W. I59th, Cleveland 11, two children, who is a salesman for Day & Maddock Co., Construction Equipment, says: "Saw ED KILLEEN and ROGER BRENNAN and tlieir families at Notre Dame Club Fam­ily Reunion Breakfast on December 13. Also heard excellent talk by FATHER JOYCE, ND exec, v.p," 
HARRY W. FLANNERY, '23 
Since gracluaiing from Notre Dame in 1923j Harr\' AV. FIanner\'j editor and radio commentator for the American Federation of Labor, is a man with an unusual grasp of the impHcations which the teachings of the Church have for our times. He has spent much time studying, and teaching the encyclicals. His efforts to spread the social teach­ing of the Church include: helping to organize the Leo XH I School of So­cial Action in Los Angeles, working with the Bishops' Committee on the Papal Principles for Peace, serving as vice-president for the Catholic Asso­ciation for International Peace. 
At various times Harry has been for­eign correspondent for the Columbia Broadcasting System. He is author of Assignment to Berlin and a frequent contributor to magazines. Currently he is editor of the weekly AFL News-Reporter. 
Harn' has been on the staff of the Baltimore Sun. Albany Evening News. Los Angeles Examiner and the Catho­lic Digest. He is married, lives in Washington, D. C. and has one daughter. 
GEORGE A. GOEPFRICH, 55 Rccano Rd., New Britain, Conn., two children, who Is chief engineer of the Valve Division of the Skinner Electric Co., says: "Moved into New Britain late in 1952. So far I have only seen JOE HOL­BACH." 
Class Pressident GEORGE ROHRS, 236 Park Hill Ave., Yonkcrs, N. Y., who has two boys and two girls, and is vice president of the Met­ropolitan Petroleum Corp., says: "Saw JOHN ABBATEMARCO (the big MUler Hi Life Man,) LUCIEN KEMPF, class v. p. from OUahoma; JOHN 'RED* HOYT and £D ECKERT of Al­bany. Saw LAURIE VEJARS' name on a TV film as a film cutter or editor recently.** 
LEO BANES, 820 Calder%vood Lane, Pasadena 8, Calif., says he is in business for himself. He is married but has no children. 
FRED T. MEYERS, 5748 N. Richmond Ave., Chicago 45, is chief of the Program Review Di­vision of the Illinois Public Aid Commission. He is married and has no children. 
JOHN H. TRAVERS, JR., 425 Parker Ave., Buffalo, two children, executive vice president of a number of trade associations—Retail Mer­chants, ^fain Street, and Building Owners and Managers associations. 
LOUIS R. CHREIST, JR., 1128 E. Bronson St., South Bend 15, two children, vice presi­dent and treasurer of the South Bend Toy Mfg. Co., savs: "Saw PAUL RIGALI, DON GAR­RITY, PAUL OXIE and HARRY SHCOLNIK, %vho is a neighbor.*' 
JOHN A. GRAMS, 451 W. Broadway, AVInona, Minn., four children, who is owner of a feed and seed store, says he has seen no one. 
Father ILDEPHONSE KREIDLER, O.S.B. (Benedictine—how*d he get in here?) is stationed at Blue Cloud Abbey, where he is a missionary among the Sioux Indians. That's a great c:ause —some of us have given a little money to fur­ther the work. 
JOHN PICK, English Department, Marquette University, Milwaukee 3, who is unmarried, sends along the information that he had a book, "A Hopkins Reader," published last December which received fine notices and was selected as an ofTering of the Readers* Subscription Book Club. He is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Milwaukee Art Institute and will teach at Har­\"ard University this summer. 
J. L. LEISEN, 2412 Nfedford Drive, Fort Wayne, Tnd., has two cliildren and is an analyst with ^fagnavox Corp. 
JOHN F. GILL, 190 El Dorado Ave., Palo-Alto, Calif., has one child and is on active duty with the U. S. Navy. 
JOHN A. BARRETT, 1757 Jackson St., Alex­andria, La., who Is a bachelor, writes that he-is a construction engineer ^vith the Army Engi­neers at Perrin Air Force Base near Denison, Texas—present address 1001 ^V. Gandy, Denison, Tex. 
PATRICK P. BURNS, 711 N. Union St., Nat­chez, Miss., seven children, is manager and part­ner of an insurance agency. He says: "Saw JIM GILFOIL, '34, TO.M DAVID, '35, and W. J. BYRNE, E. J. BYRNE, FRANK BYRNE, L. J. MENG, GEORGE M. JUNKIN, JOHN D'AN­TONI and W. H. MILLER.** 
GEORGE H. WATLING, 7472 Sawmill Rd.,. Worthington, Ohio, one child, district manager, Ma^c Chef, Inc., says: "John Igoe gave an inspiring talk to Ohio Wholesale Furniture group-on 'Spirit of Notre Dame.' Several old timer* said it ^vas the best talk the group ever heard." 
EDWARD G- MAREK, 3865 E. 131st. St., Cleveland 20, three children, who is a funeral director, has seen no one, dead or alive. 
GEORGE J. KOZAK, Meadowhill Lane, More­land Hllb, R. D., No. 4, Chagrin Falls, Ohio, who has two girls and is the directing super­visor. Bureau of Physical \Velfare, Cleveland Board of Education, says: **I see ED KILLEEN (what have you got, Ed—a press agent?) all the time. He has four boys and four girls now. (Ed. Note: I am getting along fine, George, for an old broken-down quarterback, considering how many ball-carriers our broken down tackles used" to let through at us. Joe). 
Commander D. J. GIORGIO, Chief of Anes­thesia at Bethesda, Maryland, 'Sa.v^l MedicaT Center, has helped design a helmet which creates-the illusion of space travel while a child is be­ing put to sleep preparatory to a surgical opera­tion. 
JOHN G. DOWLING has been serving as Time magazine's correspondent In Southeast Asia. He-has been appointed Time's new bureau chief ii> Buenos Aires. 
GEORGE H. ROHRS has been advanced from 
rice-prcsidcnt to executive vice-president of the-
Metropolitan Petroleum Corporation, Nc%v York 

• City. 
PHILIP A. DARMODY is now employed Ja C.A.A., Pentagon Office, Washington, D. C-
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1954 47 

Members of the 1947 Irish grid team got together for a civic diimer celebration at the Leland 
Hotel, Aurora, III., soon after Terry Brennan Av-as appointed head coach. Left to right: 
Ward Gosselin, '29, Terry Brennan and Bill Fischer recently named an assistant coach 
on Brcnnan's staff. (Photo by .Aurora Beacon-New's.) 
»Q5 # A. H. Moorman nOO 1708 Industrial Bank BIdg. Detroit 26, Michigan 
JOHN D. HEYAVOOD, Hudson, Ws., !s pres­ently scr\ins as City Attorney of Hudson and has become associated with the law firm of Hey­wood, Hayes and Hess. 
Paul Foley, Vice-President 1937 MadVIanus, John and Adams I O^A Ed«-ard F. MansBcld 
Fisher Building: ' '^ " M-4 Kini^Iey Terrace 
Detroit 2, Michis^an Norwalk, Connecticut 
The title of this piece Is "Rags to Riches'* and it can be credited largely to JOHN "ZEKE" O. J. CERXY has been appointed manager of CACKLEV, who cooked up the questionnaire, and the new Maple Heights oHIcc of the First Fed­to my most cfHcicnt Secretary who sent them eral Sa\ings and Loan Association, Cleveland, out and carefully handled tlie return. 
Ohio. Cerny is assistant sccrctar>' of First Fed­eral and has scr\'cd the firm 18 years. Since 1937 I have received a grand total of 
JOHN T. CLVSEY has brcomc associated with 7 ^ letters, on three of which I had to pay ^lilton C. Grace in the practice of law in the postage due. I now have 121 questionnaires more Warner Building, Washington, D. C. or less filled in. I can work this side of the 
street for at least a year. 
Like a kid witli a sack full of jelly beans, I^n^ C Franklyn C. Hochreitcr have decided to pace myself very carefully. But I TO D 1327 Pentwood Road you may be ver>' sure that every entry on every 
Baltimore 12, Maryland return will eventually wind up on these pages un­less the latest sJde-saddle press at tlie Ave Maria CHARLES R. "BUD" MONTGOMERY has gives up. been appointed Carbonization Engineer uith the 
As a sample of the things on which success is Pittston Company in New York with headquart­based, we must report that one of the very first ers in Cincinnati, Ohio. For the past twelve questionnaires to come bouncing back was signed 
years Bud has been Chief Chemist of the Pitts­burgh Steel Company's By-Products Coke Divi­"Rev. NED JOYCE, CS.C." Ned drops the sion and Super\-isor of Raw Materials for their average appreciably by being unable to report Blast Furnace Department. any cliildren, but he can report a wonderful 
and deserved success. If I had any sense, I would 
Dr. VINCENT A. GORNLAX has announced work his name into every column simply to prove the removal of his office for the practice of gen­that 1937 was blessed beyond Its just desserts. eral snrger>' to 320 Hawley Avenue, Bridgeport, Conn. 
There is ver>' little doubt that our class hits to all fields. Look at this— 
FRANKLYN HOCHREITER played one of the CHUCK BROVELLI, from Framingham, Mass., leading roles in the Vagabond Players presenta­
is out in California w*ith his family, two sons, working on the Folsom Dam—a project that will tion of "The Late Edwina Black." 
keep him going until 1933. 
FRANK HOLAHAN has just been appointed W. B. KIRK is a banker up in Stamford, Review Examiner for the Board of Governors of Connecticut, with a family of five children, rang­the Federal Reserve S>-stem. He has been with 
ing from a son 13 to a daughter 3. This activ­ity serms to have developed a slight blind spot the Comptroller of the Currency in the Treasury for Bill who reports about ED GANNON, BOB Department. Frank will be assigned to Washing-WILKE, HARRY MARR and JOHN McCARTY txm, D. C , beginning on April 1. He formerly and in each case reports only the number of lived in Hollidaysburg, Pa. 
children—healthy figures in the main. 
RICHARD E. FLOOD is obviously the busiest ph^'sician and surgeon in the class, or perhaps in the country. He found time only to list ha name and address: 1480 Cove Hill Road, Weir-ton, West Virginia. 
BARNEY DONNELLY is still in Holland, Michigan, as Sales Manager of Donnelly-Kelly Glass Company and band-leader of a family of eight children. In between times he and the family are sailors on Lake Michigan. 
From Little Rock, Arkansas—to keep ourselves 
spread out into the thinnest possible target— 
we bring word of CARL LANGSTON, who is 
practicing law and guiding a son and daughter. 
By way of relief from the obstetrical figures, 
EDWARD A. FOX has fouglit the good fight 
and is single. He lists himself as Sales Manager, 
Fo.^ De Luxe Foods, in Chicago. I gather from 
the postage meter blurb that Ed deals in 
'*Frozen-Fresh Fr>'ers from Sunny Arkansas." 
It was deb'ghtful to hear from FRANCIS CHARLES BARBUSH, the jazz man, who has compiled this unlikely combination of occupa­tions: Restaurateur, musician and lax accessor at Harriburg, Pennsylvania. Frankle deals In pizza, steaks, chops, booze, clarinet and hot valua­tions. He has two sons and a daughter and continues to play straight Dbcieland—including weekly appearances on TV and radio. With this bundle of talents Frankic spent 5 years in the Air Force but we managed to win anyway. 
Here is a bleat. JOE QUINN, presently of Lake Lenape, Andover, Xeiv Jersey, was sneaked in as Treasurer of the Class of our 15th Re­union. Wc shook hands all around and that was the end of that; Joe has no class funds and none in prospect. He seems to think something should be done: '^Believe we should set up some fund for the next whingdlng early so the bum won't be so great." Let's everybody send a buck to Quinn. Nothing makes a Treasurer happy like money! (Ed. Note: There's a new slant at ND on Class Reunions—the complete week­end, including food, beer, room, etc, for $20. It's cJieaper than staying at home. Check Reunion Schedule in this .Mumnus. J. C.) 
Joe passes on word of another *37er, BILL FOLEY, with the House Judiciarv' Committee in Washington. 
PHIL R. BONDI, with Standard Register Com­
pany's marketing division in Dayton, Ohio, re­
ports he's doing great. Phil still follows a care­
ful routine of "frequent rests, no late nights, no 
liquor, no smoking, etc." 
If this sort of thing were to spread like wild­fire, this class would soon dominate the hemis­phere. 
Down in Fort Smith, Arkansas, R^VY MARRE is a practicing architect in between duties as ND Foundation Governor for the state. 
With great regret we must report for those who had not heard it, that HENRY J. STEINER of Manitowoc, Wisconsin, died just a year ago of injuries suffered in a hit-run auto accident. 
Right here in Detroit a '37er has been making headlines. WALLY FROMHART has succeeded Dutcli Clark as head football coach at the Uni­versity of Detroit, succeeding to the spot held so long by another great ND footballer, the late GUS DORIAS. Wally has four children— evenly di\ided. All he needs now is a smart quarterback—like, say, a Fromhart. 
JOHN M. WALLACH and his wife last year adopted a little girl, Susan Lovett Wallach. 
Thus endeth the first canto after the first questionnaire. Believe me, it's a pleasure to look at that pile of stuff still to be used! It shall be locked in the wall safe along with the secret formula. For a long time now—if the typing fingers hold -up—we will not see the Class of '37 draw a blank. 
1090 Charles M. Callahan I TO O Sports Publicity Dept. Notre Dame, Indiana 
JOHN MAHONEY. JR., Ashtabula, O., has been discharged from the service and is practic­ing law at 1652 West Fifth St., in that city. 
FRANK LARWOOD, Portland, Oregon, writes that he had a phone call from his old room­mate REDMAN DUGGAN in recent months. Red was in Portland between trains on his way to Berkeley, Calif., to \Tsit his brother who Is teach­ing at the Uni\*ersity of California. Red was on \'acation from hb diplomatic post at Copenhageo. 
Father ELWOOD E. CASSEDY is superintcn­
dent of "Father Cassedy's Home on the Range for Boys" in Sentinel Butte. No. Dak. JOHN F, ANTON is now president of the State Bank of Whiting, Ind. 
JACK MOULDER, who has been in the auto­mobile business in South Bend, is now residing in Lajolla, Calif. Jack is selling Chryslers and Plymouths for IfcCunc Motors of that city. He and his family expect to be in their new home at 435 Retaheim Way, LaJoIla, by April 10. Jack and Mrs. ifoulder are the parents of four girls and one son. 
Early itt Fcbruar>', the South Bend branch of the Class of *38 held a get-together in the '*rumpus room" or whatever CHUCK SWEENEY calls his basement. JOHNNY O'CONNOR was in South Bend on legal business and he attended along with the following: CHARLIE BOROW­SKI, BOB DUBOIS (recently moved to Elkhart from Chicago), M^VRCELLUS BALL, CHARLIE DUKE, BILL GIBBONS, JIM LAHEY. FRANK SCHAEFER, JlXf BEAUDWAY, DON HICKEY, Coach JOHNNY MURPHY (South Bend Adams High), 6ERNIE BAUER, Professor ED CRONIN, JAKE BURKE, DON FISHER, CLAYTON JO­DON, and your secretary. It was interesting that this gathering included the leaders in the "Dad's Derby" . . . namely Ball, nine children, Sween­ey, eight, and Bauer, seven. Later on in the month, a Saturday evening dinner was held at the South Bend airport restaurant and those in attendance included the foregoing and their wives. Airport ^fanager Duke arranged for a special price for the dinner .. . or so he said. 
JACK ANTON was recently named president of a bank in East Chicago, Ind. He's still single, which I'm sure had nothing to do with his as­ccndencj* to success. Father CAREY, whom most of the members of our class kne\v rather well, is now the Prefect of Religion, and reports that brother Pat is keeping the honor of '38 aglowing in the home town of Kokonio. JIM CARSON was at the Butler basketball game in Indian­apolis, as was TOM FITZGERALD, JOHN O'CONNOR, and GEORGE SAUTER. Believe JERRY CLIFFORD, who works for the Bur­roughs Adding Machine people in Texas (Beau­mont) was at the Oklahoma football game (at Oklahoma City.) At least I heard a report on same, but didn't see him. JACK M.VHONEY, now an attorney In Ashtabula, Ohio, w*as also at the Oktalioma game, and at that time was stationed In that area and awaiting release from his second tour of military service. ED HAGG.\R was another among those attending the Oklahoma contest. JOHN COTTINGHAM, Cincinnati, was at the alumni party for the visiting Notre Dame coaches when the N.C.A.A. meetings were held in Cincinnati, early In January. GENE DOLAN, who lives on Long Island, where he visits oc­casionally with his old roomie. Doctor AMERIGO DiBRIENZA {Rigg>')> gets to Chicago about twice a year on business, and on those occasions comes to South Bend to visit his sister who now lives here. Add to those seen at the Oklalioma game WALT DUNCAN who Is In the oil business in Oklahoma City. Walt made two or three other games also during the season. TED FLJVNIGAN and his wife were at the Canishis basketball game, in Buffalo. Saw CHUCK GALLAGHER and wife at the Holy Cross basketball game in Boston. And speaking of Boston, I Imagine it is well known that HARVTEY FOSTER is now In charge of the FBI office there. TOMMY JORDAN is practically a regular at all home basketball gomes. He comes down from Chicago to cheer for his brother Johnny's team. PHIL KIRCH and wife were at tlie University of Iowa field-house on the evening Notre Dame met defeat in the N.C.A.A. tournament. JOE KUHARICH was one of the many Notre Dame athletic fig­ures at the N.C.A.A. meetings in Cincinnati, in January. Joe is now line coach of the Washing­ton Redskins. NICK LxVMBERTO, on the Des Moines Register-Tribune, has moved from the sports desk to the city desk. H/\L LANGTON has been in sporting goods sales work for the past couple of years working out of Baltimore. GEORGE .McDERMOrr, who works for the HIckok Belt concern, now lives in Oklahoma City, and was another of the many *38crs at the football game. 1L\Y MEYER returned to the crampus with his DePaul basketball team, Feb. 13, and was here once before that In a scout­ing capacity. Dr. DAN MONAGHAN commuted from his Denver home to the locale of the various football sites, Los Angeles, South Bend, Oklahoma City, Philadelphia, etc. It might be noteworthy to add that Dan is still single. FRANK 0*LAUGHLIN was a irunpus visitor in early April. ANDY PUPLIS, veteran Chicago high 
school coach, was another who was noticed at the N.C.A.A. athletic meetings In' Cincinnati. 
BILL COSTELLO and wife had their fifth child, a boy, on Jan. 31st. They now have four boys and a girl. Bill lives on the south side of Chicago and travels constantly in the midwest for the Capchart Television concern. JERRY SHINE, Indianapolis, made most of the home football games. HANK THEIS, once of Indian­apolis, now lives In Philadelphia, and was at the Notre Dame-Pcnn basketball game. HAROLD AVILLIAMS was away from his Baltimore Sun editorial desk a good part of the winter because of a prolonged sickness. GENE CASEY, in real estate In Chicago, his address is 7213 S. Green­wood Ave., made a last minute request for Navy gome tickets and unfortunately I was unable to help him. JIM DOUGHERTY, a realtor in Bris­tol, Tcnn., was In charge of a sports aiTair re­cently in Bristol and one of the features was the showing of a Notre Dame football film. In a letter, Jim particxUarly wanted to say hello to Chuck Sweeney and Bill Costello. 
We'll wind up with belated acknowledgement of Christmas cards from, JACK ANTON, Mary and JOE CALLARAN, the JIM C^RSONS, the BILL COSTELLOS, DAN and Vivian FISHER, Patty and ED HAGGAR, Ellse and HUB KIRCH­AL\N (Hubber-Dubber), Lily and PAUL LEAHY, Dr. MONAGHAN, TOM and Julia MULLIG.\N, Father JOE RACE, Billie and HAL WILLIAMS, ED and Fran AVRAPP, TOM and Grace WUKO-VrrS, the JERRY CLIFFORDS, the CHUCK DALYS (Chuck, in Insurance In West Palm Beach, Flo., made the million dollar round table in 1953), and Dorotlica and HAROLD LANG­TO.N. 
1 090 Vincc DeCoursey 
ITJT 1917 Elizabeth Kansas City 2, Kansas 
FRANK R. PFAFF is a computing supervisor whose job it is to develop further technical uses for the IBM equipment. Frank is with the Standard Oil Com[uny of New Jersey in Hnar Bayway's Process Engineering Division. 

MAZ BURNELL, head football coach at St. George High School in Chicago, led his team t& the All-Chicago prep crovvn last season. 
Richard Burke 1940 146 Paxton Drive 
South Bend, Indiana 

JOHN B. MORGAN, certified public account­ant and veteran of two Navy tours of duty has recently joined TE^fCO Aircraft Corporation to-head a new accounting department. He vdll supervise the company's administrative budget and internal audit functions. John is married, has three daughters and lives at 7806 Caillet, Dallas, Texas. 
GEORGE T. WILSON Is at present in charge of certain phases of structural design in the en* gineering division of Douglas Aircraft's Long Beach (CaUfomia) branch. George is married, the father of two daughters and has been employed by Douglas for the past fourteen years. He saw JLM BERNARD, '38, at the SC-ND game lait fall. 
Dr. JOHN B. FLYN'N has recently been ap­pointed to the Board of Health in Meriden, Conn. John is associated with the Colony Afedi­cal Group in that city. He received his medical degree from Jefferson I.fedical College, Philadel­phia, in 1944. 
Captain CHARLES J. O'BRIEN has been named Staff Judge Advocate for the Pinecastle Air Force Base, Orlando, Florida. 
Chaplain (Capt.) JAMES P. AfcBREEN has been awarded the Third Army Certificate of Achievement prior to his departure for reassign­ment to Germany. Father McBrcen has beea Assistant Chaplain at Ft. McPhcrson for the past year. 
^MLLLVM H. COLEM.AN has become a limited partner In the investment firm of Ball, Burge and Kraus, Cleveland, Ohio. Bill Is director and vice-• president of the Wire and Metal Manufacturing Company In Cleveland. 
%QA^ John W. Patterson, Jr. 
•'^ 1 Pittsburgh Press, Roto Section Pittsburgh 22, Pennsylvania 
BILL COTTER, JR., has the honor of being: the youngest Knight of Malta. Bill is still at­tending a special academic program at MIT. 
ADRLIN A. KUHN'S office is now located at 
165 Broadway, New York City. He is In the in­
surance business. 

KANSAS CITY—The club's Ladies' Auxiliary arranged a reception for Father Hesburgh during his visit there in March. L. to R.: Mrs. William V. McLeese, auxiliary president;: Mrs. Robert J. Metzler; Father Hesburgh; Mrs. C. Craig ^Vhitaker; and Mrs. J. Clinton Meunier. 
Notre Dame Alamnus, May-June, 1954 49 
BRIG.-GEN. CHARLES D. JONES, '32 

The commander of Langley Air Force Base and die 47di Bombardment Wing (Light) is Brig.-Gen. Charles D. Jones, a Notre Dame graduate in the class of 1932. Charlie began his career with the Air Force in 1934 when he enlisted as a fi>nng cadet. He went ashore with ground elements in the in­vasion of North Africa at the outset of World War II and served as liaison officer between General Patten's task forces and General Cannon's Air Force units. 
On a B-25 raid over Italy he was shot down near Rome, in 1944, and made a prisoner of war until his lib­eration by Allied Forces in May, 1945. Charlie's post-war assignments have in­cluded Deputy Chief of Staff, 9th Air Force and executive officer at Shep­pard Air Force Base, Texas. He is a graduate of the Command and Staff School at Ft. Leavenworth, Kansas, and from the Air War College, Max­
•well Air Force Base, Alabama. 
For gallantry in action and meri­torious service, Charlie has been. awarded the Silver Star, the Legion of Merit, Distinguished Flying Cross, Air Medal, and the Purple Heart with Oak-leaf Cluster. He is a command pilot in the Air Force. 
Charlie is married and the father of two daughters. He was promoted to Brigadier-General in June, 1953. 
nt%A^ Mllliam E. Scanlan ITIZ 400 East lUth Street Chicago 28, Illinois 
Rabbi ALBERT PLOTKIN has been presented the distinguished service award of 1953 by the Spokane Junior Chamber of Commerce for his outstanding contributions to the Spokane com­munity and that entire area. The Chamber has abo nominated Rabbi Plotkin as one of the ten outstanding young men of the State of Wash­ington as well as naming him the Man of the Year of the Spokane community'. This is the first time in the hIstor>* of this award in ^Vashing­ton that a rabbi has received tliis honor, it hav­ing been the policy' up until now to exclude the clerg>'. Rabbt Plotkin is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Plotkin of South Bend and he' is an ac­tive member of the Spokane Notre Dame Alumni Club. 
DON FIGEL of Chicago gets the gold star for supplying the most news this time, whicli should in a way 5er\'e as a reminder that the Scoopcr always, yes always, welcomes news of what you're doing in various parts of the country. 
Don supplies these notes on some of our class­mates: 
**M1KE CARR Is still in Indianapolb, serxnng as sales manager for Rytcx company, specializ­ing in supplying writing paper (some of your wives ought to get some for you); Mike, by the way, got his pen back as he loaned it to Don at the 10th Reunion and on a trip to Chicago was reminded that he left it on the campus, in care of Don Ftgel. JOE NUGENT of Matteson, 111., and Inland Steel, had the fourth addition to the family not so long ago—a bouncing girl named Betty. DON MARTIN reported the birth of a boy and the ED HACKETPS did the same. No. 4 for the latter." 
Don and Ed Ilackett got together at the SMU game. WALT McCOURT has returned .to Ohio' after a number of years in Chicago. JACK BER­GAN is still a Park Forester, with Symington-Gould, the railroad supply firm. CHUCK CAR­NEY has moved to Milwaukee where he is as­sociated with the Army legal department. TOM CrVRROLL recently bought a new home In Whca­ton, III., the ink business must still be good. 
And ditto for BILL HICKEY, the steel baron. One of our bank directors, WILLLVM J. HARTI­GAN. reports that Bill recently moved into a beautiful Beverly Hills home on Chicago's south side. 
JERRY HACK, after spending some time in the south, has returned to Chicago and is again associated with Standard State Bank. He's an old neighbor of Bill Hlckey and the>' see each other often, along with a number of the others. 
Here's a note about Don Flgel. He's the new president of the Fourth Degree members of the 
K. of C. in Chicago Heights, III. Don was bus>' making plans for the big celebration honoring his pastor at Olj'mpia Fields Country* Club last time I talked to htm. 
JIM RICE had another addition to the fam­ily, in Racine, Wis., and GEORGE UHL like­wise In Har\-ey, 111. GEORGE SOBEK, accord-to some of the papers, may be leaving his coach­ing assignment at a Calumet City, III., high school. Seems like Soapclilps ran Into a barrel of tough luck and a lot of tough competition. Good luck In the future, George. 
From Jamaica, L. L, New York, comes this note from WALT DESEL. "I wish to announce that I am now actively engaged in the practice of General Insurance at 158-18 Grand Central Parkway, Jamaica. I'll welcome a visit, business-wise or othcr\^'ise, from classmates coming this way." 
AL ANASTi\SL\, recently transferred to a new position with the WALL STREET JOURNAL in New York City, was visiting Chicago recently, brushing shoulders with. Advertising executives around the Albert Frank-Guenthcr Law agency ofilces. Al's tickled to return to -native Gotham, after bam-storming about the U. S., including a stop-off in Dallas. 
That's all this time, but don't forget to write. 
iTHa 11404 Rupley Lane Dallas 14, Texas 
One of our infrequent reports from the West Coast arrived this month and BILL McGOWAN writing from Edwards Air Force Base, California says: "The ten year silence has been broken. Having read with enjoyment tlic '43 column these past years it behooves me to get on the ball. 
"Tlie fact that I recently became engaged to a ver>* wonderful girl. Miss Luc>- Brill, has a little to do with the outburst. We plan an October wedding. Figuring that I'm probably close to being anchor man on the matrimonial team. It makes for somewhat of a news item. 
"The National Advisory- Committee for Aeronau­tics, Langley Field, Va., has been the source of my bread and butter for the past seven years. Tlie interesting work that keeps me bmy is tlie measuring of aerodynamic loads on air­craft in flight. These measurements are made using many types of Instruments: some being stand-
GRAND RAPIDS—Rev. Jerome Wilson, CS.C, vice-president of business affairs, spoke at the club*s Communion Breakfast. A gift of $400 was presented to the University. (L. to R.): George Jackoboice, Foundation chairman; Father Wilson; John Flanagan, president; and Joseph Moore, vice-president. 
ard while others are developed specifically for the job. 
"BOB VICARS paid a short business visit to the field a few months ago. It was good to see the ol* javelin throwin* lad looking fit. Bob works at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Silver Springs, Md. BOB MADDEN, working with Grumman Aircraft, also made a sortie for data some time ago. 
"Presently I'm on tcmporar>' duty at the NACA's High Speed Flight Research Station at Edwards AFB, Calif. On the way out here I had the ex­perience of driving through a real Texas 'black duster* ia the vicinity of the fair city of Dallas. I expect to be back in Virginia this June." 
Thank you for the fine letter. Bill. .All other gents in the "ten year class," i.e. those not having dropped a note to this harried scribe, please follow Bill's example and do it today! 
Our East Coast Veep, BILL TR^\CY wrote: "No doubt you will be surprised to hear that I resigned from the F.B.I, as of February* 26 and accepted a position as Eastern Sales Representa­tive for the Trisco Co., Lima, Ohio with ofTiccs in New York City. The General Manager Is Rf\Y ^VALTER, Notre Dame, '49. The Trisco Co., is a well known waterproofing company. I lake up my new duties March 1. 
"I talked with BUD DUDLEY during the Fall when \niIanova came to NY to play Fordham. He*s doing very well as Athletic Director of Villanova. I saw the Georgia Tech game and ran into a few of the class of^ 1943. BILL MIDDEN­DORF and I had quite a chat. I alwa\-s seem to run into Bill. 
*'NEIL GREENE and I have been working to­gether for some time now. Neil is an FBI agent. I also sec TONY MALONEY quite often between trips to the NY FBI ofTice and the New York Law School. Tony will soon receive his LLB." 
.Again our thanks to the most faithful of *43 correspondents. 
Last Fall HARRY WRIGHT'S University of Georgia football team blew into Dallas for a game. Harr>' is an assistant coach at Georgia, however, he was not in evidence at the game— probably having drawn a scouting assignment. 
On a recent trip to El Paso, Texas, I talked briefly with JIM FORD on the phone. Jim is working for Standard Oil Company. On a later trip I lunched with JIM .MADIGAN in Little Rock, Ark. Jim was hip deep in tax work at the accounting firm in which he is a partner. 
Please deluge me with mail. It will be a pleas­ure to spend a few hours reading it and prepar­ing it for the next column. 
Dr. ROBERT P. NENNO has been named as­sistant professor of psychiatr>' at Georgetown Uni­
versity school of Medicine. Bob received his M.D. from Loyola University School of Medicine. He has lectured at Northwestern and the Univer­sity of South Carolina. 
JUNE n-12-13 
1 O^ ^ George Bariscillo 
ty*'* 313 Fifth Avenue Bradley Beach, N. J. 
FOR '44 MEN ALL ROADS ARE LEADING TO NOTRE DAME ! ! ! 
This will be the last issue of the Alummis to reach you prior to our BIG 10 Year Reunion. The dates arc the 11th, 12th and 13th and from all reports we should have a record turnout. Class "Vrcxy" DICK DOER.MER will be general super\-isor of the festivities while JOHN LYNCH and BOB LEHMAN, both of South Bend, are local Co-chairmen. 
John and Bob will handle arrangements for the traditional "Class Dinner," and no doubt have already placed orders for "refreshments." BILL TALBOT, JACK WOELFLE, et al. will be lead­ing the New York contingent westward, and JACK THORNTON, president of the Chicago '44 Club, heads the "Windy City" rcunionitcs. JOE Vr\N DYKE and BERNIE FINUCANE promise to have the Kansas Citv bovs on hand, w*hile BOB McCONNELL, JOH.NNY MORRIS and JOHN ANHUT will have the Michigan gang on tap. TO.Nf SHELL^VORTH heads the west coast "returnees" and S.\M WING leads the Texas and Southtvcst crowd back to the campus. JIM CROWLEY from South Carolina is contact man for the southern group and CREIGHTON MIL­LER will sec that Ohio has a good representa­tion. BOB -MARTINA is covering the Rocky Mountain states, and R<\OUL de -MAMBEY and JIM O'DEiV are the New England contacts. That gives us a prctt>- fair cross section. There arc probably a number of other groups already or­ganized in the various cities, and perhaps plan­ning to return together. It is not known at this moment which campus residence hall will be assigned to our class. You may know that re-

WILLIAMSPORT—Notre Dame club and K. of C. honored Coach Clarence 'Jake' Kline recently. L. to R.: Jim Crowley, member of the Four Horsemen; Thomas H. Richarilson, president of the Eastern Baseball League; John Willmann, former alumni club president; and Coach Kline. 
FRANCIS M. MESSICK, '30 
The Associates Investment Co., through Robert L. Oare, board chair­man, has named Francis M. Messick to be director of sales promotion and market research—a newly-created po­sition in the company. Fran graduated from Notre Dame in 1930 and is a past president of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley. 
He has long been active in civic af­fairs and is president of the Knife and Fork Club of South Bend, a 600-mem­ber organization. Fran has served as chairman of the March of Dimes and B.ed Cross campaigns and was treasurer of the South Bend Community Chest for three years prior to the beginning of the United Fund. 

Duties of Fran's job will include market analysis, factory and dealer re­lations and supervision of the public relations and advertising departments. He was formerly seven years in banking and manufacturing circles and 14 years with Associates in bank relations and related capacities prior to service as a naval officer in World War II. 
unions are now held on the weekend following graduation, so the campus is given over (or rather "taken over") by the Reunion classes. The Class of '49 will be holding their five-year reunion and have already issued a Softball game challenge to us. (Who says we're too old, too bald, and too rotund to take them on!) 
Had a very interesting letter from Mrs. James 

H. Graham, mother of BILL GRAHAM who extends to all of us a cordial invitation to Bill's ordination at ND. Tentative date at this writing is June 9th, tw*o days before our reunion officially begins. It may be that some in the Chicago 
PITTSBURGH—This group helped to plan the alunini club's annual dance. Back row (L; to R.)i Earl Brieger, Alex Lesko, John Rcardon, Larry Smith, Leo Burby, Larry Ellis and John Brilcy. Front row: Mrs. Brieger, Mrs. Lesko, Mrs. Reardon, Mrs. Burby, Miss Jackie Coogan and Mrs. Briley. 
vinnity will be able to aitcnd. Bill graduated in Cbem Engineering, then worked for Shell Chemical in ihcir Houalon plaat for three years before entering the scminarj- at school- He will say his First NIass at Annunciation Church in Houston and then return to ND for t^vo year's work on his ^faster'5 in Chem Engineering. 
Received a welcome note from RAOUL dc MAMBEY who is with the Hartford home office of Tlie Travelers Insurance Co. Hc*s living in Norfolk, Conn., and—get this—has fiv» children with the sixth in sight! Looks like he'll be a lop hca\y favorite to win the *'CIass Papa" tide at the reunion. He extends a cordial wel­come to any *44er5 jn tlie \*icinit>* to drop by for a visit. 
Hold ex'cryihing! Sorry to divest you so soon of the title, Raoul, but a letter from JOHN 
O'CONNELL (180 Connecticut Ave., Spartanburg. South Carolina] announces he now has seven (I said SEVEN) little ones and one due in Sep­tember! That's going to be tough to beat. John writes that he sees JIM CROWLEY in Spartan­burg and ran across JACK WHiTELY in church one Sunday as Jack was passing through on busi­ness. John writes a very interesting letter about the '44 DOME suggested in this column some months ago by BILL TALBOT. He's now in the business of design and offers to do the lay­out work on sucli a project. Of course, it ^vill be a big job assembling all the information that Would go into such a publication, so we arc suggesting now that we a\l think about it be­tween now and the reunion, and in June at ND we'll discuss the matter fully, set up the com­mittees and get the ball rolling. It's something we unfortunately missed and something I'm sure we'd all enjoy having in the years ahead. So let's think about it and have some good ideas to present when the matter is aired in detail at the reunion. 
John writes that he finished "teaching at ND in 1949, tlicn spent a year at the University of Kansas and two years at Clcmson College in South Carolina as Assistant Prof, of Architecture. 1952 was spent as manager of an architectural firm in Spartanburg, S. C., and since last July I have been on my own in the architectural business doing residential and commercial work." 
JAMES J. CLARKE who is now at Washington University in Saint Louis advises us of two omissions on tlie class list: ^VNGELO BERTEL­LI, now assistant coach at Vale University and JACK P. ALEXi\NDER, Lebanon, Indiana. Add these names to your list. Jim reports he'll be on hand in June at the reunion. 
Walking down the street in Ashbury Park, 
(N.
 J.) the other day, I came across LARRY SCHATZLEIN who was in tou-n on business for 

U.
 S. Rubber. 


LOUIS A. GORETTA has joined the staff of the ^Vhiting Research Laboratories of Standard Oil Company (Indiana). He has recently been associated with Armour and Cotijpany. 
FRANK L. McMANUS Is now living at 13 Evelyn Road, Port Washington, L. I., N- Y. Frank is with IBM and has been promoted to the position of >farkct Analyst at IBM's World Headquarters in New York. He formerly resided in Reading, Pa. 
FRANK E. ECK's new address is now 136 East 36th Street, New York 16. Frank became engaged on December U, 1953, to Miss Br>cc Leaviit of 
NEW ORLEANS—^Alumni gathered at Amauds Restaurant for a luncheon meeting. Those at the head table included (L. to R.): John Pctitbon, Jonas Sporl, Jr., Joe Heap, Club President Bill Johnston, Club Chaplin Father Peyton, CS.C, Bill Rcdmann, secretary-treasurer, and Pete Hilbert, Wce-presidcnt. 
ST, JOSEPH VALLEY—The head table at the club^s Rocknc Communion Breakfast included (I^ to R.): BiU Gibbons, breakfast chair­man; Father Thomas Brennan, CS.C., a guest speaker; Charles *Chuck' Collins, principal speaker and former end on the Seven Mules; President Harry Koehler; Father Healy, chaplain; Coach Terry Brennan; Bernard J. Voll, honorary president; Robert Lehman, secretary; and Joseph Hannan, treasurer. 
Wilinutte, III., and they plan to be married on April 24th in St. Francis Xa\-icr Church there. 
DR. ROBERT A. NELSON, JR., has left for Europe with his wife and t\%'o children where he will spend a year and a half at the Pasteur Insti­tute near Paris, France, doing research under a private grant. Bob has been a staff member at Johns Hopkins University. 
MIKE FRA^VLEY writes from Boise, Idaho that 

he*U be back for the reunion. Mike*s now Ac­
counting Machine Sales Manager of the National 
Cash Register Company for the Boise branch, 
and the proud father of three boys and a girl. 
Had a recent letter from EMMIT JENNINGS 

bringing us up-to-date on his doings since leading 
ND in *42. He graduated from St. Louis University 
medical school in M6 and then spent 4 years in 
Los xVngeles as an intern and resident in 5ur­
Ser>'. Then the service and now back at L.A. 
He ^vas married in 1950, has two young ones 
and a third on the ^v*ay. In the near future he 
expects to move to Roswell, New Afe:uco. 
And that's the news up to the moment. . . . Will be seeing you on the llth, 12th, and 13th of June beneath the Golden Dome once again! 
m n^ c ^^ Lcsmcz IT«ID 122 Tullamore Road Garden City, N. Y. 
A FEW MORE HAVE PAID 
During the past months, a few more men of the class have sent in their dues of $1. Money Is needed for printing, general mailings, stamps, etc. You men who have not sent your dues in, please do it right away. Meantime, thank you to the following men who have paid up since the first of the year: L.\RRY NOOK, DICK LEITE, BILL CLEMENCY, TERRY WILSON, BYRON MARTIN, ALFRED W.\DE, JOSEPH 0*KEEFE, EL.MER GILLESPIE, and CHARLES SCmVTNTs*. NEWS OF THE CLASS 
THOAWS P. BERGIN, one of the class vice-presidents, is scheduled to be married this sum­mer to ^Iiss Barbara August Barrett, of South Bend. Tom is now head of the department of business administration and professor of statis­tics at the University. Congratulations on the coming happy event, Tom, from all of the class. 
Other news of the class is so plentiful that wc will get into it without further delay. Even the news below does not constitute all the news I have received. I am holding all the longer let­ters for the next issue of the Alumnus. For no\%*, here is only part of the *'shortics" which have been received in great volume. LETTERS FROM DEPARTMENT: 
From JOHN MACK: "I am working with the Inland Steel Company, Chicago, as assistant to the District Sales Manager. Katy and I ha\*c three children now, AI. Kindest regards to you and the class." 
From HANK SLAMIN: "At present I am an account executive. I have been in New York since I graduated. I married in *50; have two girls, 1 and 2. I see JIM CLYNES and JACK HERLIHY for lunch occasionally. 
From AL LESMEZ: "Just a letter from myself to remember to congratulate JIM CLYNES for having been elected to the coveted post of Presi­dent of the ND Club of New York. Good going, Jim.** 
From TOM CLIFFORD, JR.: "I am working for Wildermuth, London, and Clifford as a lawyer. I sure will be at the lO-ycar reunion." 
From KEN KEHL: "I am a dentist. I often %vonder about the following. I started at ND in Sept. *41. With 5 semesters of pre-med, our cJass split up because of the war. We had started ;J}out 125, and at our last gathering while at school, only 35 of us met at the LaSalle Hotel. I'd like to know what happened to most of that group-STU BOREN. MIKE COFFEY, DICK HACK, JOE KNICKERBOCKER, etc ^VhAe in the ser\-ice as a dental officer last year, I met another dental officer at Walter Reed who had started with us, FRANK KELLY, from New York. RAY PIECARSK, ex *45, and myself spent a lovely weekend with DAVE KORTY, *47, in La­fayette at the Purdue game. 1*11 be at the re­union.** 

From JAMES LAMB: "I am working for Deg­nan, Hager, McElroy as an attorney. My sec­ond son was bom March of last year, name of David Stephan. Larry, my first, is now 3 years old." 
From FRANCIS M. GUINEY: "BOl Flach 

HOUSTON—The Women's Auxiliary of the Houston ND Alumni Club held their election meeting with the following named as officers: (L. to R.) Mrs. R. Conroy Scoggins, parlia­mentarian; Mrs. Paul J. Doyle, treasurer; Mrs. Donald F. O'Brien, vice-president; Mrs. Leo 
E. Linbeck, president; and Mrs. Edwin D. McCrory, secretary. Seated is Mrs. Wm. M. Garrett, publicity chairman. 
NotTe Damt Alumnus, May-]une, 1954 53 

married, Nancy Riorden in December. 1 have two cJitldren nou-, and am working as a sales­man in laminated plastics and \-uIcantzed fibre with the Taylor Fibre Company in New Jersej'. I'll be at that reunion.'* 
From ^\^LLIAM P. COGHLAX: "I am in surgical residency' at the Jefferson Medical Col­lege Hospital in Philadelphia. In July we cele­brate our 9lh wedding annivcrsarv*. My wife, Patricia Ann, and my three children (Patricia Ann, 7; Patrick, 4; and Mathcw, 2) are all well. I returned from 2 years in the Xaxy just one year ago. Best regards." 
From HENRY P.AVXE: "I definitely plan on being at the reunion next year. Kight now I am working for the Logan Conveyor Co., in Sales. >fy quota of cliildren is still t%\-o." 
Frt)m JIM RETTER: "If I can be of any help, let me know. We bought a house a year ago, so have new address (3903 Stnindhtll Road, Cleveland 28, Ohio). Flo and I now have two sons, Jim and Paul. I'm still working on an MS degree at John Carroll University in the eve­nings. I'll see you at that lO-year reunion next year. Regards." 
From LOUIS SCIBELLI: "This may be con­fusing, but I consider myself one of the class of '49, tlie year of my graduation. I'm attending the five-year reunion this June." (Dear Louis, the record is being clianged according to your re­quest. Stay sober at the reunion! !). 
From JIM SCHWEICKERT: "I'm still working as Director of Social Scr\'lcc In tlic Cambridge State Hospital in Ohio doing the multitudinous things that go Into ps>'cliiatric social t«'ork. It's still a little too early to say whctJicr I will be at the reunion. Tlie closest Alumni group is around fifty miles away and therefore, I get out of touch." 
From BILL KLE.M, JR.: "I am with the Coca Cola Bottling Company of South Bend. Thomas Brian was bom in November of '53, so the Klcm's now liave two girls and one boy! I'll be at the reunion." 
From CL/VRKSON S. FISHER: "I am a prac­ticing attorney with the law office of Edward 
F. Juska in Long Branch, New Jersey. My home address Is 23 E. Highland Avenue, Atlantic Highland, N. J. I'm not sure of being at re­union so far." 
From JLM DUGAX: "We see JIM RETTER and his family evcrj* so often. His young son, Paul, is the spittin' Image of his older boy, Jim­mie. Tlicy are both cute kids—they take after their mother. I'm looking for^^-ard to being at the reunion." (Jim's t«th NACA, Cleveland, doing aeronautical rescarcli at the Lewis Flight Propulsion Labs.) 
From JOE LONG, JR.: ''Have one young man, Joe III, age 3, and one daughter, Susan, age 1 year. Would like to hear of the wliercabouts of JACK LEAH\', if possible. I'm with the Na­tional Cash Register Co., Elizabeth, X. J. I ex­pect to be at the lO-vcar reunion with bells on." (Jack Leahy lives at 2609 S. Hobson St., Phil­adelphia. Pa.) 
From CHUCK AVOLF: "Rosalie and I have been married almost seven years and to date we have been blessed with Kathleen Anne, Michael Josepli, Timothy James, and Cliarlcs Kevin. I hope to see you and all our class at ND in one year. I'm with Socony-Vacuum in their clicmlcal engineering department." 
From ROBERT C. REARDOX: "Recently trans­ferred (temporarily) to Tulsa, Oklahoma. Will be travelling bet^veen Tulsa and West Texas (Odes­sa, etc) during the early part of the year. Would like a roster of some of the boys in 'tins area. I'm doing sales engineering work in in­dustrial controls and oil field equipment. I'll be at the lO-markcr." (Dear Bob, I'm terribly sorry about forgetting to send you this rosier, but work just ganged up on me. If you still want it, send me a f:ard, and I'll airmail It down to you but pronto!! Best regards, Al.) 
From J. EDWARD FAUST, JR.: "Still with the Farm Bureau Insurance Company doing actuarial work. We have three children: Joseph, Deborah, and David. Sec you at the reunion next year." 
From Father JOH-X J. COXXELLY: "Please note that my new address is St. Matthew's Rec­tory-, Plainfield Ave., Nixon, X. J. I enjoy the column very mucli." 
From JOHN R. RY/VX: "I spent some time in Xcw York last summer, where I saw TOXY E.VRLEY, AXDY BURKE, and JOE O'KEEFE. Our little Patrick arrived last June. Tliis is our third child. I'm still with Connecticut General Life Insurance Co. Sure expect to be at the re­union next year." 
From BILL GRrVNT: "Have two boys, Pat, 3 years old; and Bill, 1 year old. We built a new-house and moved in last Xovember—3918 Trask Ave., Erie, Pa.—and welcome any of the class to call 56-358 when passing through Eric. I'm Ad­vertising Manager for the Firch Baking Co., wholesale bakers In Erie. Sec you at the reunion." 
From JOHX L.VWSOX: "Presently working as a lawyer and partner in the law firm of 'Law­son and Lawson. I hope to see you at the lO­ycar reunion." 
From GEORGE DESPOT: "You certainly arc an efficient scoundrel . . . enclosed find my dol­lar dues. I haven't had a cliancc until now to tliank you and Betty for being so nice to us ^vhilc we were in Xc>v York. Sorry- tliat we didn't get to see more of you, but perhaps w*c'II remedy that in the future. I have to get back to my work now as I still haven't gotten caught 
NEW HAVEN—^Thc alumni club's booth at "College Fair," an event sponsored by Catholic Graduates Club of New Haven. L, to R.: Ed\v*ard A. Byrne, '26; Father John J. Keanc; Mary Halpin, daughter of I^obert, '34; and Joseph P. Bums, '34. 
FRANK J. O'BRIEN, '29 

One of the busiest men in tlie elec­tronics industr)' is Frank J. O'Brien who is a vice-president and a director of Motorola, Inc., Chicago, III. Frank received a B.G.S. degree from Notre Dame in 1929. Following graduation he was employed in die Production Department of AVestem Electric Co. for diree years and later joined what was then Galvin Manufacturing Co. as chief expediter. The latter organiza­tion is now kno\\'n as Motorola, Inc. 
Frank has been active in welfare work having served as head of the Red Cross Fund Campaign for industries in his own field and also in various ca­pacides with the Chicago Communit)' Fund. He and Mrs. O'Brien reside at 1122 N. Kenilworth Ave., Oalc Park, 111., and have three cliildren: Nancy-Lee, 21; Donna Rae, 18; and James Francis, 15. 
up on the backlog. You can count on my being at the reunion in one year." 
From LARRY XOOK: "My dues are enclosed. Sorr>- for being so late. We're the parents of 3 ba>-5 and I girl. I'm working as Assistant Superintendent in charge of Production at the 
S. E. Overton Co., wood-specialty products in South Haven, Michigan. I do expect to be at the reunion in 1955." 
From Brother FRANCISCUS WLLETT: "I am presently situated at Gilmour Academy in Gates Mills, Ohio (outside of Clc^'eland). Have had three books (Juveniles} published by Dujarie Press al XD. Tlie latest was *Merr>* Music Maker,' a Ufc of Haydn." 
From Uic sister of FRAXaS P. XASH: ".My brother, Frank, has been In Ser\'ice since August '50, and is to be discliarged early in *54. He is presently (December] aboard the USS Helena 
JAMES F. PURCELL, H2 

Appointment of James F. Purcell as public relations manager of Northern Indiana Public Service Company was announced recently by Dean H. Mitch­ellj President. 
Jim is a native of Jordan, Montana. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1942 and the Har\'ard Graduate School of Business Administration in 1943. He entered the Na\7 as an En­sign, and after three years of service, was honorably discharged with the rank of Lieutenant Senior Grade, 
Following the war, Jim worked for the McGraw-Hill Publishing Company in New York City. In 1947, he joined the American Maize Products Com­pany, Hammond, Ind., where he served as public relations director. He then became associated witli the Chicago office of Selvage, Lee & Chase, a pub­lic relations consultant firm. 
Jim is a member of the Public Rela­tions Society of America, the Harvard Business School Club of Chicago, the Serra Club ofthe Calumet Region, and a director of the Notre Dame Club of the Calumet region. 
The Purcells and their four children, Angela, Ann, Alicia and Anita, live at 16 Indi-IUi Park, Hammond, Ind. 
somewticrc in the Pacific. After discharge, Frank will be in practice here in St, Louis. \Vhcn he is settled, I am sure he will forward his new address, but please continue to mail to the present address (1701 N. 45th St., East St. Louis, Illinois) until you hear from him." (Thank you very much for your kind interest, Charlotte. We hope by this time Frank is home and busy getting used to "ci\-\ie clothes".) 
From R^VY C. KOPrTUK: "I am working with Reaction Motors, Inc., Rockaway, N. J. as Chief Metallurgist, Head of Materials Labora­tory. My new address is 466 Walton Road, Maplc­wood. New Jersey. I expect to be at the 10— year reunion." 
From HARRY BERLINER: "As usual, I'm ob­jecting—this time to your 'Christmas* card. Makes nic work!! But, I still like you! Have my own law firm—Berliner and McGinnis.'* 
From ROBERT E. THOM/\S: "Recently quali­fied for command of submarines. I am Lieutenant in U. S. Na\y ser\*ing in Submarine Force, Pa­cific Fleet on U. S. S. Carp on war patrols in the Far East. Will soon be transferred to U. S. S. Tilcfish in San Diego. Married August 29, 1953 to Miss Nancy Deewall, daughter of Rear Ad­miral and Mrs, R. G. Dccwall. AVatcIicd the Irish trample the Southern California Trojans be­fore 98,000 fans. I certainly expect to be at the lO-ycar reunion.** 
From ROBERT E. 0*aVLL.\GH/\X: "Am work­ing with David >L Batavia Real Estate and In­surance Company, Tucson, Arizona as an insur­ance solicitor. Graduated from the University of Arizona with a B.A. degree In June, 1953. I have lived in Arizona since September, 1948. Am married but have no cliildren.** 
From Brother JOHN a\PISTRAN, C.S.C.: "I am teaching Latin I, English I, and Social Liv­ing at Holy Trinity High School, 1443 ^V. Diw­slon Street, Chicago 22, Illinois. Am. also Director of Audio-Visual Aids." 
From Rev. HAROLD BRIDE, C.S.C.: "We arc three '45*ers here on the staff of St, Gregory*s College: FR. RICHARD TIMM, C.S.C., Ph.D. in BioiOg>% teaching and doing research at Dacca if edi­cal College on a Fulbrlght Fellou-ship; Fr. CHARLES GILLESPIE, C.S.C., in History and in charge of sports; and myself. We will all miss the *55 re­union according to present plans, but do not feel too sorry for us. We have a minor reunion three times a day with the 7 Nd'ers, *42 to *52, on tlie staff here. Keep up the good work, AI. We read the print off the Alumnus pages, then use what's left as stencil sheets for our spirit duplicator. Of course, we frame the *45 columns!** (The address Is St. Gregory's College, Dacca, East Pakistan.) 
From Father RICHARD TIMM, CS.a : ^'Havc been working with the Government Medical Col­lege, Dacca, East Pakistan as a Fulbright lec­turer in Parasitology. Helped to organize the Dept. of Science at our St. Gregory's College? this department opened last August." (Thank you. Father Timm and Father Bride, for the-kind words, and God bless you In your work, Al.) 
From JIM SCHAEFFER: "I am working with the General Electric Supply Company as a sales­man. 1 expect to be at that lO-ycar reunion." 
From BOB GRIFFIN: "Have been working-with the Connecticut State Building Trades \Vel­
fare and Insurance Fund as its Administrator. There arc three trustees from Labor and three from ifanagement, and I run the fund for them. The fund is similar to Blue Cross, but covers only men working on construction. We are cov­ering about 70,000 people (20,000 workers and families). They receix-c life coverage plus hos­pital, surgical, polio, etc. I have been with them about 18 months. I was married on October 31, 1953 and nov\' live at 33 Edna Avenue, Bridge­port, Connecticut. Saw TOD DORAN of Butte, ifontana In New York this fall (ROTC '45) and BILL BR^XCHEN and wife. He's in F.B.L, San Francisco. To you, Al, my sincere best wishes for health and happiness always. Had a letter from PAUL SMITH your old roomie, a while back. I certainly expect to be at the 10-year reunion." (Good luck to you. Bob. Haven't heard from the lazy Southerner, Paul Smith, in over a year. He's bigger than I am, other­wise. . . . !! Al.) 
From ROBERT E. RIORDAN: "Am working with the /\merican ^VIleelabrator and Equipment Corporation doing export sales promotion work. I expect to be at the lO-year reunion.'* 
From JIM PARIS: "Saw BROD BENT^'EriT at the U.S.C. game. Also JACK 2ILLY and JOHNNY LUJACK, but missed seeing FR. BARRY. Am working with Lockheed Aircraft Corporation doing design work in the fighter group. I'll sec you at the 10-year reunion.*' 
From JIM BERSBACH: "We have four chil­dren: Wendy, now 4; twin boys, Scott and Mark, 22 months; Lisa, 6 months. We're living in Al­gonquin, Illinois, 40 miles N. W. of Chicago, and wc*re anxious to see one of the games next year. Please call if you*re passing through Chicago. Am working with the Chicago Convention Bureau, 134- North LaSalle Street, Chicago, III. Inter­esting work, all types of groups to meet in the Windy City, lop of the convention world.** 
From REV. LEONARD, O.S.B.: "Am business Manager in the Marmion Military Academy, Au-
NEW YORK CITY—Father Cavanaugh receives $1,000 check from Qub President James Clynes for the Distinguished Professors Program. L. to R.: Father Ransing, chaplain; Tony Earley, secretary; Clynes; and Father Cavanaugh. 
Wotre Dame AlumnuSt May-June, 1954 5S 

DEARBORN—Man-of-thc-Ycar aw*ard >vas given to Henry Ford II, president o£ Ford Motor Co. Mr. Ford ^vas unable to be present and sent ^Villiani C Pine, Scholarship Direc­tor, as his representative. L. to R.: P. J. Keman, Jr., retiring club president; Father Hcs­burgh; Mr. Pine; and Richard King, club president-elect 
Tora, Illinois. One percent of all students cn-roIl«l at Notre Dame are graduates of Mar­mion Military Academy.** 
From MARK A. CRONIN, JR.: "Am working vith tlie KnidtcrbodEcr Roofing and Paving Com­pany doing Sales work. I'm married two years and have a daughter. In our company are my ^brothers, Bob (class of '32) and Jim (class of 
'35)." 
From TOM BERGIX: "I atn teaching and ad­ministrating in the Department of Business Ad' ministratioti at the University of Notre Dame. I expect to be at the 10-year reunion." 
From FRANK DELANEY, JR.: "I would like to wish you and all the fellows a Holy and a Merry Christmas and a Happy and Prosperous New Year. I am a salesman in the home build­ing materials line with the Mills and Luptog 
•Supply Co. in Chattanooga, Tcnn. Will certainly try to be at, the lO-year reunion, if possible." 
From J. PAUL LIMONT: "Am Imng in San Francisco, California, married and have one 
Man of the Year in Cleveland is Charles E. 'Chuck' Rohr 

child, John DaWd, nine months old. Have been working with Crane & Co., Inc. Dalton, Afassa­chusctts doing Sales and Sales Management work.*' 
From TERRY E. ^\^LSON: "I am in the Legal Department of Shell Oil Co., Midland, Texas. Recently saw another Shell employee who looked quite familiar. He was \'ERG KENNEDY, also an NROTC. Wc talked over old times at ND. Here's my buck—sorry to be so late- Would sure like to hear from CHUCK TIERNER or DICK SADLER, both NROTC bo>-s. I expect to be at the ZO-year reunion." 
From BOB LUKE: "Was recalled to active duty with the Marines from March, 1951, to June, 1952. Ran into some old ND Marines, RED BLAIR, BOB WATT, RED CUNNINGHAi.1, BILL SEEBURG. We were in a group tmder in­struction at Camp Pendleton, California and Quan­tico, Virginia. Am now proud poppy of two boys, Roark, age 6 and Sc»tt, age 2. Appreciate your tvork with regard to the reunion and X certainly plan to be there. At the present I am employed with the Fairfield Engineering Com­pany, Marion, Ohio." 
From LOU LAUTH, JR.: "I am owner of Lauth's Kiddie Korner in Burlington, Iowa and do expect to be at the lO-ycar reunion." 
From BOB MADDEN: "In January I married 

Miss Margaret Fronke. After a honeymoon at Acapulco and Mexico City we are at home at 715 W. 9Ist. Street, Kansas City, Missouri. I am employed with the Milwaukee Lace Paper Com­pany as Sales Representative, Midwest. The Kan­sas Cit>- Notre Dame Club meets regularly and I see a lot of BOB REARDON, '45." 
From DAVID J. CHAMPION: "Am worldng with Soldaduras y Equipos de Mexico, S.A. Mex­ico 1, D. F, ^Ve enjoy having visitors. Anyone who comes this way should give us a call." 
From CLIFF D. MARKS: "Stopped in to see Mr. Brown and Mr. Eichenberry at ND the first %veck in March. Mr. BroAvn had quite a smoke tunnel in operation. At present am employed with McDonnell Aircraft Corporation, St. Louis, Missouri doing Stress Anal>'si3 of Aircraft. I ex­pect to be at the 10-ycar reunion." 
From Catherine Anderson Clcmenc>* for 'WIL­LIAM M. CLEMENCY: "I hope BHI wiU be able to attend the reunion, but that remains to be seen. Enclosed please find $1.00 dues. We have been meaning to send it for ages, but the interruptions—Billy 3, Ann 2, and Grace 2 months have deterred us. Our best regards to all the class o( *45. You'll probably remember me as RUDY ANDERSON'S sister. Rudy is married to Helen. DAN O'DONN^LL'S sister, and has two children, Mary Jo 31^ and Rudy HI, 4 months." (Thank you, Catherine. Great to have a well-knit, *45 ND family, isn't? Regards to Bill, Rudy, and Dan, and their lovely families. AL.) 
From B. E. MARTIN: "Am married and have a little girl, Linda Susan, bom September 17, 1953. In a recent issue of the Ahimnus was happy to read of some of the old classmates e.g. JOHN HOSBEIN, FRANK PENDARVIS, FRANK AHL­LER, JOHN CARON. JIM O'CONNOR, RUDY ANDERSON. I wonder uhat's happened to DICK SAYER. Got a Chrislmas Card from VERN FROST (Frosty). Seems lie's back in the Navy. Has been in for a couple of years now, I guess. At present he reports that he has a good billet in Ha^vaii. Give ray regards to RAY BADDOUR if and when you see him. Enclosed is my check for long overdue dues. Am working in the Chemi­cal Division of the Com Products Refinery Com­pany as Process Engineer. I expect to be at the lO-year reunion." 
From BRYCE SMITH: "Have four daughters now. Last gal bom in Houston, Texas. Where is CHUCK LESLIE. I understood he was in ^Vash­ington D. C , but I cannot find him. Reopened my o*vn office in Dikesville in February doing dentistry work. I expect to be at the reunion." 
From MELVYN P. TOMBER: "I made out a check for my dues in October and I thought I mailed it too. It hasn't been cashed yet, nor mentioned in Alumnus. VTiM send another check shortly. I am a teacher of the suth and sc^-enth grades in Crunuto^vn School, Warren Township, St. Joseph County." (Dear Mel, we have deposited your check, so thanks again. Re­gards, Al.) 
From CHARLES LESLIE: "Working as a Ra­diologist in pri\*ate practice." (Charles' address is 52-34 N. Berkeley. Whitefish Bay, ^Visconsin.) 
From JOHN W. MEYER: "Is the class reunion in the form of a retreat? Wliat goes on at a class reunion? Have been working with Inter-State Foundry Company in Indianapolis, Indiana. Am doing sales and plant engineering. If at South Bend, I expect to be at the 10-year re­union." (Dear John, hope you've received letter explaining about the reunion and that you are planning to help with the hilarity. Best regards, Al.) 
From R. JEREMIAH McCARTY: "^Vorking with Rohr Aircraft Corporation, Chula Vista, suburb of San Diego, California, doing cost accounting." 
From J. USINA: "Newly married on 21 No­vember, 1953 to Patrida Ann Mix here in Oslo in St. Olaf's Cathedral. Am in the U. S. Navy with military assistance program for Norway in Oslo as aide to the Chief—RADM James H. Foskett, USN. I certainly expect to be at the 10-ycar reunion—if the Navy and the Lord are willing.** 
From JOHN H. TERRY: "I am a partner In the la.\v firm of Smith and Sorik, 300 ^Vilson Building, S>Tacusc 2, N. Y. I expect to be at the 10-ycar reunion." 
From CHUCK SARTORE: "My first Saturday off in 3 weeks so I came over to see the races at Hot Springs, Ark. Received your letter last week and will be glad to ser\'e on the commit* tee. Will see you at the reunion, and \s'ill write ^•ou soon. Regards to the class.** 
FRANK J. KELLY Is now in the Army with a captain's commission and is stationed in Bremer­haven, Germany. 
DR. CHARLES A. CRO^VN announces the open­ing of his offices for the practice of Internal medidne at 30 South Avenue, New Canaan, Conn. 
lO^A J^** Tengc, Jr. •'**0 35 Hughes St., Apt 2 Hartford, Conn. 
Vfc certainly have had a ^^'onderful response from the class of *46. Many thanks to all those who have cooperated. Now in action, please keep information on its way to me. 
Had a personal note from JACK STE\VART, who is living at 615 South Normandie Avenue, Los Angeles, California. Since' February, '46 he has been in almost sixty foreign countries, on four continents; residence In Paris, Dec , '46 to ^farch, '48; then a stay in the States and up to Canada. His appropriate comment, "All Is wasteland between New York and Los Angeles, save the oasis of Notre Dame. . . " 
As for myself, I have been In Hartford for almost two ^xars, as a Vice President of an agency and now as an Account Executive of an 
advertising and public relations firm. Enjoy New England Hfc but miss my jaunts to Notre Dame. Saw another Notre Dame man not long ago^ MIKE GRACE. His Broadway hit, "The Al­manac" is certainly worth seeing. 
Kindest personal regards to all fellow *46ers. 
ARTHUR R. KERNEN 2610 Walnut St. Evanslon, 111. 
Laborator>' Manager for Dnpont Co.; obtained his MS degree from the University of Dela­ware. At the present lime he is the manager of Salcs-Ser\'ice laboratory in Chicago, III. He occasionallv sees the football games at South Bend. 
MICHAEL J MACK 2076 Broadlaun Dubuque, louu. 
Mike has three children and is presently a design engineer with the John Deere Tractor Works in Dubuque. He would like to hear from TOM SCHULER, a\ L BLx\TTNER, BOB TE­TENS. 
JOHN T. OLIVE Capi., Medical Corps USA Hospital Ft. Riley, Kansas 
John is the proud father of four children; has had a tour of the conntrv' and foreign shores as an Army man. After his release from service this year he plans, to set up practice, btil at present has* no definite place in mind. 
BOB ROSSITER 225 Baltic St. Brooklyn 1, N. Y. 
Bob is an insurance broker and still a bachelor. He will be ver>' happy to hear from any fel­lows who care to write. God has been very good to Bob. In the fall of '46 he had an operation which restored some of his sight, enough to en­able him to read and write and get around with much greater facility. A few months after this he started an insurance business which has con­tinued to grow. Not long ago he saw JIM CLYNES, HARRY WALTERS, and GENE WOHL­HORN. He »vas also best man for BOB WALSH of *48 a year ago last December, who was mar­ried in Kings Park, L. I. Bob sends his best to all '46ers. 
JAMES A. TIRRELL, JR. 635 Hillcrest Blvd. Phillipsburg, N. J. 
Now a lawj'er, Jim graduated from Rutgers Law School in June, 1949, has his own law office in Phillipsburg, N. J. He was married in Sep­tember, '49, and became a father of a son in March, '51. 
PAUL R/\GAN 2713 No. Meridian Si. Indianapolis, Ind. 
Still not married. Opening an office in Atlanta, Georgia, selling electornic and mechanical parts to aircraft and industrial manufacturers. He would like to hear from CHARLES BARTLETT. 
 TED FURMAN 338 Washington Ave. Pelham, New York. 
Ted is the father of two sons. He would like to hear from ERNIE R^VUSCHER, NICK COM­.MISA and JOHN KELLY. Ted reports that he has had Uttle luck in keeping contact with any 
, of the '46crs and is \'cry happy that such an endeavor as this has been started. 
REV. GLENN R. BOARMAN, C-S.C. 100 Fisher Hall Notre Dame, Ind. 
Father Glenn would like to hear from BILL CAREY. He was ordained a priest in June, 1950; spent a year and a half at St. Louis Univer­sity and presently is rector of Fisher Hall at 
J Notre Dame, teaching in the Philosophy Dcpart­
'^ ment 
WILLIAM C. DINEEN 1816 N. 52nd. St. Milwaukee, Wis. 
Now a Iaw>'er and the father of two sons. He is anxious to hear from any classmates who would like to write. 
VINCENT A. JACOBS 2709 Capitol Hazel Park, Michigan 
Vine is still single and would like to hear from ED SCOTT and ELMER ANGSMAN. Vine is a health and physical education instructor for the Detroit public schools. In the summer Vine works for the Detroit Board of Education also. He is finishing his Master's Degree in Health Edu­cation at Wayne University in Detroit. His prin­cipal, Hewitt Williams, is a long time friend of FRANK LEAHY 
ROBERT L. MUSANTE 78 AVcstland Ave. Winchester, Mass. 

Bob is married and has one son He is a part­ner in the Musanti and Canty, Inc., Fruit and Produce Distributors, Boston. 
CHARLES HOLMES 1010 South 7th St. FairHcld, Iowa. 

Is married and has four children. He would like to hear from MAT DRANCHAK and GEORGE DELOACH. Charlie's expecting his fifth blessing in June, and with 3 sons, he is certainly going to keep Notre Dame a bus>' place in a few-years. At the present time he is an inspector for the Iowa State Highway Commission. 
JAY WARREN 69 OAKWOOD ROAD HUN"nNGTON, W. VA. 
Jay has one daughter, and at the present time Is sales manager of the Acme Motor Co., in Huntington, West Virginia. He would like to hear from ART KARTMAN and BILL BRAC­KEN. • 
DR. WALTER V. MORAVA Youngu'ood, Pa 
Now a dentist with a private practice in Youngwood, Pa. He is married and is the father of twins, now seventeen months old. 
REV. LOUIS L. HARMON 1320 East Dela\-an Avenue Buffalo 15, N. Y. 

Is now a Roman Catholic priest. 
WILLIAM J. aASSIDY 595 V.F.W. Pkwy. Chestnut Hill, Mass. 
Bill is the father of two children and is now a physician. He would like to hear from JAMES CfVSSIDY. Bill has a fellowship in internal medi­cine at the Leahy Clinic in Boston^ He intends to go into practice in Reading, Pa., some time next year. 
Ken Stillcy has recently been installed as mayor of Clairton, Pa. Ken also is assistant football coach at the University of Detroit, and was formerly an outstanding member of Irish grid teams in 1934-33. He gradu­ated from Notre Dame in 1936 and intends to assist Wally Fromhart at Detroit this Fall before retiring from the coaching field. 
PAUL TAGGETT 
123 Millen Drive 
No. Syracuse, N. Y. 
Paul is the father of two children and is now an engineer with General Electric. Paul received his master's degree from the University of Michi­gan. He is working on the production of color picture tubes for television. 
JOLIET—Officers of the ND alumni club arc (L. to R.): standing, Bernard Tyrell, treas­urer; Thomas Minzing, secretary; Larry Weinbrad, vice-president Seated, Rev. Fabian Donlon, and Joseph Stengelc, president ' 
Notre Dame AlumnuSt May-June, 1934 57 
THOMAS H. VAUGHN. '31 

The recently appointed vice-presi­dent in charge of research and devel­opment at the Colgate-Palmolive-Peet Co-3 is Dr. Thomas H. Vauglin, a No­tre Dame graduate in die class of 1931. In addition to his bachelor degree Tom received a doctorate from Notre Dame^ maxiina cum laude. While in the grad­uate school he also taught in th«; De­partment of Chemistry and served as secretary to the late Father Ju lius Nieuwland, G.S.C.j discoverer of the fonnula for sj'nthetic rubber. 
I-ater, Tom was director of organic research for Carbon and Carbide Re­search Laboratories. He has also been affiliated \Wth the J. B. Ford Co., the Michigan Alkali Co.^ and the AVyan­dotte Chemicals Corp. In 1949 he was elected vice-president of research and development for Wyandotte. 
In 194G Tom was chosen to repre­sent the chemical industr)' in the gov­ernment-sponsored Scandinavian re­search and industr)' tour. Subsequent travels to Europe and liis selection as a member of the five-man Mutual Secur­ity Administration Mission in 1952 have given him a broad background on the European chemical industr)'. 
He has been active in the American Chemical Society and the American Institute of Chemical Engineers as well as being a civic leader in community afTairs in the Detroit area. 
FRANK A. RUGGIERO 148 Main Street Wat OrangCf N. J. 

Frank is the father of one child, and he would like to hear from ELMER ANGSMAN. Frank has been teaching school in Rutherford, N. J. He is married to a girl who worked for FATHER K£N­NA in the office of Prefect of Studies in 1943. 
DIAMOND N. M. COMMISA 233 No. Eleventh Nett*ark 7, N. J. 

He would like to hear from TOM BURNS and JAMES MOLIDOR. Nick has been teaching school since leanng Notre Dame. Last September he \isited the campus with his father and enjoyed seeing the pre-season practice and being back on the campus. He is still a bachelor and says, "May remain an old maid school teacher." 
JOSEPH D. SCHMITT 220 Seebirt Place South Bend, Ind. 

Joe is still single and is an attorney in South Bend. 
KENNETH F. MERTEN 8021 Beechmont Ave. Cincinnati 30, Ohio. 

Ken is a technical engineer at the aircraft nu­clear propulsion project of General Electric Co., Cincinnati. Ken received his MS degree from the University of Cincinnati in '47 and then worked for six years with the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics at Langley Field 
JOSEPH L. HANNON Qtra. 413-C \Vashington Blvd. 

Presidio of San Francisco, Calif. Joe is the father of a son and daughter. He is now a doctor at the Surgery (General) residency in San Francisco. He would like to hear from BILL BUSCH and NICK ROTTE. 
CRAIG A. HE\\*ETT c/o Bureau of Public Roads Swan Lake, Montana 

Craig is still single. He has lived in several states since graduation and recalled all of our w*onderful trips from Notre Dame to St. Louts via the train, and its parties. 
FREDERICK R. FUNK 2626 Schubert LaCrosse, ^\lsconsin 

Fred is now the father of two children and the secretary of the LaCrosse Rubber Mills Co. He frequcntlv hears from JOHN QUINN of Spring­field, Mo. 
BILL CAREV The Denver Club Denver, Colorado 

Bill received his law degree at Columbia Uni­versity in 1948 and in 1950 graduated from the 
Har\-ard Business School with an AI.B.A. He has been in the oil business since that time, work­ing for the Delhi Corporation of Dallas. He has been in Denver, Colorado since June, 1953. as a representative for the same company. His job is oil exploration and looking at oil deals of all shapes and sizes. 
WILLIAM H. GRIESEDIECK 
34 Huntlagh DoH-ns 
Frontenac 22, Mo. ' 
Bill is married to a beautiful girl who was Mari­lyn £\'ans of St. Louis. They are the proud parents of two daughters. Bill is in the public relations department of the Griescdieck Brothers Brewery- Company. Unfortunately, I have not seen Bill recently, but I certainly extend my kindest regards to you. Bill, and ^[ariIyn. 
JOHN B. PHIPPS 
454 Main St. 
Conneaut, Ohio. 
Jolin is now the fatlier of two sons and is Vice President and General Manager of the Allied Resinous Products, Inc. He would like to hear from any of his ROTC group who were in his class. John received his chemical engineering de­gree from Case Institute of Technology in Cleveland. He has been in the plastics business since 1952. 
JOSEPH A. LaFORTUNE. JR. 
3426 So. Gar>: 
Tulsa, Okla. 
Joe has two daughters. He is an independent oil operator, and he recently saw BOB MANNK and JOE MADDEN, both of Tulsa. 
BERNARD J. SLATER (BARNEY) 
970 Highland Rd. 
Sharon, Pa. 
Barnc>* is an Assistant Professor in tlic Archi­tectural School of Iowa State College, and still single. He recently heard from FRANK PAUL­SON and BARTON JOHNSON. He would like to hear from GERRY O'REILLY. His com­ments: "Life has been so repetitious, and any one year since graduation describes them all. Home for holiday's. Ames all winter and Europe all summer. Have concluded eight rounds of the continent and one in Scandinavia." He leaves July 7 for another tour of Europe. He will see Spain, Greece, Egypt and North Africa. Barney, 
have loads of fun, and I wish I could take you up on the wonderful plan of seeing one another in Europe. May do it again naxt summer, but presently up to my neck with this advertising stuff. 
CHARLES H. BARTLETT, JR. 
Cuba City, ^Visconsin 
Charles would like to hear from any of the M6 group. He is a banker in San Paulo, South America, working for the First National Bank 
PITTSBURGH—The club's annual retreat attracted a large group of aliunni. It was held in January and George Kingsley was chairman. 
of Boston. Recently heard from PAUL KAGAN 
and BILL SCHMID. 
JAMES B. RICE announces the opening of his law ofTicc at 105 West Adams Street, Suite I3I2, Chicago, III. 
1 Ai| 7 James E, Murphy ITH / 407 So. 25th, Apt. B-3 South Bend, Indiana 
JOHN A. ARCADI is an M.D. and an Assist­ant Resident in Urolog>*, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Mar>-land. He is the father of two boys. 
DONALD L. AraiTE is employed uith Nortli .American Aviation, Inc., Colmnbus, O. 
LAWRENCE M. GARDEN, M.D., has com­pleted his internship and three years of specialty training. In recent months he began the pri\'ate practice of Urolog>*. He and Mrs. Garden are the parents of four boys and two girls, 
WILLIAM J. THOMPSON completed his work at the Har\-ard Business School last June and is nou- an assistant professor, School of Business, University of Kansas. 
PHIL DELINCKE is now residing at 408 Vir­ginia Avenue, AVest Collingswood 6, N. J. His former address was Georgia 'Warm Springs Founda­tion, Warm Springs, Ga. 
CLINTON D. FIRESTONE, JR., has finished his second tour of duty with the U. S. Air Force and is now back in Akron to resume his duties in the Sales Department of the Firestone, Tire and Rubber Company. 
EDWARD FREDERICKS recently joined the Analytical Department of Shell Development Com­pany's Emer>-ville (Calif.) Research Center as a chemist. 
JOHN T. KELEHER, formerly on the faculty at Chicago-Kent College of Law, has joined the Chicago law firm of Giachint, Ley and Cross. The Kclehers now have three girls and a boy. 
LUIS BELTRANENA, also a lawTcr, has been tangling with the communists and the courts in Guatemala City. In addition to his law prac­tice, Luis IS engaged in the cattle business w*ith his father-in-la%v. He recently was elected Director of the General Association of Farmers, an organiza­tion representing the interests of cattle ranchers and coITcc growers in Guatemala. Luis was host to Father W1LLL\M CUNNINGHAM during his last visit to Central America. 
PAUL McKEE has moved to Lexington, Ken-tuck>-, where he is credit manager for the South-em Bedding Company. There is no alumni club in Lexington and Paul is anxious to get acquainted with other Notre Dame men in the area. Tlie McKccs are the parents of two sons and a daughter. 
ED NOON/\N reports that he's with the Buff­alo regional office of the National Labor Rela­tions Board. He sends word that FRANK Mc-GINTY is stationed with the FBI in Chicago. 
JACK MILES, who is in the insurance business in South Bend, says that ELMER "MOOSE" MATTHE^VS is practicing law in Newark fol­lo^ving his discharge from the Signal Corps. His roommate, BOB MULCAHY, also a lawyer, is now living In Wanlagh, New York. 
In recent weeks, mail which was addressed to ALVIN C. MARRERO, WILLIAM J. PUR­TELL, JOHN E. SWAIN and JOHN L. 2ILLV has been returned to the Alumni OfTIcc marked "unclaimed." Are you fellows hibernating? Let*s hear from you—and the rest of the class of '47—in time for the next class column. 
lOVIQ Herman A. Zitt IY*IO 126 Fannsidc Drive Dayton, Ohio 
EDWARD DOUGHERTY was ordained to the priesthood on May 30th last year at St. Mary's Cathedral, Trenton, N. J. 
RALPH SCHUMx\KER writes about a change of address to: 2215 Washington St., E., Charles­ton, W. Va. Ralph is a salesman with Elder Mfg. Co., and his territory includes all of West Virginia and parts of Ohio, Pennsylvania and Maryland. 
Here are two more changes of address: DAN GENTILE, 7621 Rainbow Drive, Kansas City 5, .Mo., and BRAD BENNETT, 2129 Mardina, W. Covina, Calif. 
Here are some excerpts from a newsy letter from PARIS MONSOUR. A second son Paris III blessed the Monsour household January 18, 1953. Paris and PAT CH/\RBENE/\U graduated from Georgetown Medical School June, 1952 and were interning in Detroit at Receiving Hospital and Harper Hospital respectively. Pat is married and a father. TOM CLEARY and JIM DILLON graduated in June, 1953 from Georgetown Med. Tom Is also married and a father. PAUL REILLY graduated from Flower Med. School in New York after transferring from Georgetown Med., and he got married the same year. AL MEROL­LINI Is in Washington, D. C. doing top secret defense work. He also got married last year. Thanks for all the Information Paris. I am for­warding your news about the members of the '49 class to their class secretary*. 
JIM GREENE'S father ^v•rote from St. John's Newfoundland, Canada to tell us about Jim's ac­tiniics since graduation. Jim received his M.A. degree from the ND Graduate School In 1W9. He has since graduated from Oxford, England, with his B.A. in law. He also passed the British Law Exams and was admitted a Barrister of the Inner Temple London. He is also studying for LLB from London University and his M.A. from Oxford. Since his call to the English Bar, he has been taking a post-graduate course In Nfarlne and Admiralty Law, and will return to Newfoundland to be called to the Newfound­land Bar, where he will permanently reside. 
EM and BILL WEILER became proud parents of a son, Mark Alan, bom December 16, 1953. ROGER B. AMSTUTZ is employed with North American Aviation, Inc., Columbus, O. EDWARD R. KENEFICK is now Educational 
Notre Dame Foundation governors and members of the Foimdation Advisory Committee attended a recent conference on campus. 
H. EDWARD \VRAPP, *38 

The University of Chicago has an­nounced through Dean John E. Jeuck, of the School of Business, that H. Ed­ward Wrapp ^viII direct the Univer­sity's unique Executive Program. Ed Wrapp graduated from Notre Dame in 1938 maxima cum laude. He re­ceived a master's and doctor's degree from Harvard. During World War II Ed ser\'ed as a lieutenant Li the U. S. Navy. 
He is author of several articles which have beer: published in die Harvard Business Review and the Journal of Business. Since 1951 he has been a member of the School of Business fac­ulty at Chicago. Ed has also been with 
E. I. duPont de Nemours and Co., and \vorked for the Seaford Co. in Dela­ware. 
The Executive Program, now in its 11th year, was inaugurated for execu­tives \vho have already achieved prom­inence in business. The program deals with broad social and economic prob­lems that face businessmen today. 
Advisor for the Alexander Hamilton Institute in New York City and is residing at 57 Pine Grove Terrace, Newark, N. J. Ed was a special agent in the FBI for three years. 
LOU TONDREAU, Hillside Road, Brunswick, Maine, is still representative to the Maine legis­lature. 
JIM ^VELTER, who received an M.S. in 1W8, is an assistant professor of physics and mathema' tics at LcMoyne College, Syracuse, Ne\v York. His 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1954 59 
Lt. Robert J. Fink, '52, former page of 
Cardinal Spellman, assists His Eminence 
at Mass in Korea. 
address is 101 Merman Drive, East Syracuse, Xew York. Jim and his wife arc the parents of three sons, Timothy Robert, Doug and Chris. 
ELDON S. O'BRIEN has announced the open­ing of insurance adjusting offices at -108 SLxtli Street, Eureka, Calif. 
^^NCENT C. A. SCULLY, JR., received a Master in Letters degree from tlic University of Pittsburgh during tlic winter commencement exer­cises. 
ROBERT E. ROLWING has been chosen by 
F. H. McGraw" and Company to scr\'e on the permanent engineering staff at tlieir home office in Hartford, Conn. He has been employed for the past three years as a mechanical engineer by the company at the A.E.G. plant at Kcvil, Ky. Bob married Miss Judith Ann Turk of Bardwcll, Ky., in June of 1953. 
EDWARD J. FLATTERY will seek nomination for re-election to the office of justice of the peace for the city of Ft. Dodge, Iowa, in the Republican primar>' June 7. 
C. J. STYERS is now residing in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, where he is employed by the Collins Radio Company in their Engineering Research Depart­ment. He and Mrs. Slycrs arc the proud par­ents of two girls and one boy. 
lOyi O .Tohn P. Walker 
•V*IV 826 Winff Street Elfdn, Illinois 
(Ed. Note: Tlirough misinformation received in the Alumni Office, the Nov.-Dec, 1933 ALUM­NUS printed a notice of George E. Pcachcy's death. 
Tlic editors regret this unfortunate' error but had assumed that the source was reliable and correct. For all '49 men and other friends of George's, I want to assure them that he is in the best of health and living now at 311 Blackhawk Drive, Park Forest, III. JC). 
JAMES BUTZ is now employed by Wilson and Company, Chicago. III. Jim will be handling public relations and publicity as well as some ad­vertising for the meat packers. His present address witli Wilson and Company is 4100 South Ashland Avenue, Chicago, III. 
ROBERT C. MINER, formerly contact and re­ports supervisor of the Nebraska-South Dakota Area of the Northwestern Bell Telephone Com­pany, has accepted a position as accountant in the accounting procedure section of the ac­counting operations division. 
LEE W. MARA has been named assistant prod-duct manager of the Tcxtilcathcr Corporation, Toledo, Ohio. 
PHIL RUSSO is noi»- living at 7314 Hamp­ton Blvd., Apartment 2-B, Norfolk, Va. Begin­ning this past January, he has opened a law office at 614-616 New Monroe Bldg>, Norfolk. Va. It is listed under the name of Russo and White. 
« OCA Richard F. Hahn I YOU 5440 No. Winthrop Chica.c:o, Illinois 
ROBERT J. LALLY wlio received a Bachelor of Law degree in 1953, has announced his as­sociation with the firm of Falsgraf, Reidy and Shoup, 1050 Union Commerce BIdg., Cleveland, Ohio. 
EDMOND L FOLEY, special agent for the Hartford Accident and Indemnity Company, is now residing at 608 North Notre Dame Avenue, South Bend, Ind. 
JOSEPH M. SHANNON, JR., who received his Bacliclor of Laws degree in 1953, has received an appointment from the Supreme Court of In­diana to ser\*e on its legal staff. Joe will be en­gaged in legal rescarcli for the court and will make his Immc in Indianapolis. 
THOMAS M. JOHNSON has just been named 
The Daniel P. Barlow, M8, family of Schen­
ectady, N. Y. (L. to R.): Mrs. Barlow, 
Morgan, Julie, Kathleen, Chris and Dan. 
district manager in the Atlanta Branch of th« Studcbaker Corporation. 
BOB STOCK recently had a serious brain operation but is out of the hospital now and ac­tive again. Bob is a staff member of the Uni­verse Bulletin, Catholic newspaper published in Cleveland. 
BROTHER ROBERTO MULLER, C.S.C., has had a recent book published *'The Man Who Limped to Heaven.*' 
1st. Lt. .MARK H. BERENS, Chicago, 111., recently completed tlie prescribed course of three months duration at the Judge Advocate General's Scliool, Charlottesville, Va. Mark was in the up­per ten percent of his graduating class of 61 officers. 
RONALD MYRTER received his law degree at the University of Pennsyh-ania last year, was admitted to the bar and began practice in his own office in Clcarneld, Pa. 
GUS CIFELLI who played with the Green Bay Packers last «eason is now working in the production control department of the Lincoln-Mcrcurj* Division, Detroit, as a distributor. Gus's current address is 1440 W. Bethune, Detroit, Michigan. 
JAMES P. BECKER is now in service with the Army in Trieste according lo information re­ceived from his father. 
ROBERT J. TEUSCHER has been made a sales representative of the Ruberoid Company with headquarters in Columbus, Ohio. 

JIM OVRBERRY writes that after graduation in '50 he took an M.S. at ND, followed by two years with DuPont. Jim is now teaching Chemical Engineering at Yale and concurrently working for a Doctorate. Jim Is enjoying life in New Haven and although still single is still in­ter\iewing candidates for the Mrs. title. To give you an idea how Jim likes New Haven, lie passed up the ND-Penn game lo watch Princeton and Vale battle it out. Jim reports the following do­ings at Yale. "DON GLVNCOLA is getting his] Ph.D. this summer." BILL RILEY, BILL TOO­MEY and BILL DEMPSEY all ('52) arc in Law School. BILL DEMPSEY won the Moot Court session his first year. DON ZEHNDER recently finished Law School with distinction. Prof. JOE EVANS is here on a Ford Foundation grant. MILT FISK ('53) is a Woodrow Wilson scholar and is doing quite well in Philosophy." Jim extends a welcome to any of the boys in the New Haven area to drop in to Sterling Chcm. Lob. at Yale and pass the time of day. 
ANTHONY (BABE) ALEXANDER dropped a line with a brewery banner across the top and I thought for sure he was up to his old tricks of spending night and day at a brewery, and sure enough he was, only now he gets paid for same. Tlic cause for finally stirring the Babe into writing was GERRY RAMSBERGER, having writ­ten a few months back. So Gerr>* you have done the impossible. Babe writes "I've been working for Anheuser Busch here at the Newark Brewery* for the past two years. I started as asst. cashier, six months ago I was promoted to cashier. I like it vcr>' mucli especially since there is plenty of free beer. I've been married for tlircc years 
* to the former Ruth Warsdorfor, whom as you recall, I was engaged to my Senior year at ND. We now have a son, Anthony Jr., who is two years old. My address is 168 ^fain St., South River, N. J., and I would like to hear from some of the bovs—BILL POWERS, JOHN DOLxVN, ED FARRELL, KEN DONOGHUE, et al." (So would the Secretary-.) "DICK COR­DASCO and I got together for the N.Y. Giants Pro game and aftcnv*ards spent sometime with JI.M MARTIN, now playing football with the Lions. Jim is in great condition and playing terrific ball. *SPEED' WOLF was married last fall and is now living in Jersey. JIM DRISCOLL is in the Army, stationed in Munich, Germany, and while there went to Rome to sec the Pope. He also ran into JIM SULLIVJVN on the conti­nent." GERRY RAMSBERGER'S address is Apt. 36C, Vctville, Notre Dame, Ind. 
DAN BARLOW sent a Christmas card my way and by it I see he now has four children, Julie, Kathleen, Morgan and Chris. Dan is now back at Schenectady with G.E., working on transistors and their application to digital computers. 
PAUL BUCHYNSKY is still in training \ritli Jones and Laughlin in Cleveland and is going to night scliool at Case Tech to get an M.S. in Engineering Administration. Paul reports that he met BILL THO.MPSON at a hockey game in Cleveland. 
Dr. JOHN D. SCHIR^VCK and his wife an­nounced the arrival of their first offspring, a daughter, on Dec. 29, 1953. John graduated fron^ Loyola Medical school last June and is now 
OKLAHOMA CITY—New alunini club of-i ficers are (L. to R.): Charles B. McFar­land, '39, v-p; Edward S. Kavanaugh, '38,1 pros.; and Rodney F. Jancway, '30, treas.i 
interning at St. Rita's Hospital in Lima, Ohio. John also reports that BILL SHANAHAN nicked Uncle Sam for another deduction by having a son on Dec. 31, 1953. John's address is 833 W. High St., Lima, Ohio. 
A clipping from the South Bend Tribune brings word that ALE SCHAfEISER has been appointed Superintendent of the coated fabric division at the Ball Band plant. Ale has been with Bait Band since graduation and has worked his way up to being a member of the managerial staff. Ale also has two children, Charles, and Xancee Ann. His address is 3403 S. Miami Road, South Bend, Ind. 
HUGH MULLIG/VN answered our plea for ROGER HOSBEIN'S address. Cpl-l Roger L. Hosbcin, US5532n59, 2nd. Div. Rear 23rd UPO,' APO 248, care of Postmaster, San Francisco, Cattfarnia. Hugh says that Roger expects to be in Korea till the end of the summer. He writes: "BUD ROMANO and I went to Alton for JOE FALLON'S wedding to Isabel Moran in Januarv. TOM McHALE was Joe's best man and RUDY DCTRAPINO was one of the ushers. Bud is in business with his father and brother Mike ('49). Joe and Isabel are making tlieir home in Charl­eston where Joe is employed with U. S. Carbon and Carbide. Tom McHale, liis wife, Fran, and son are living in Pittsburgh. BILL O'CONNELL and his wife Just had their second girl and Just before Christmas moved Into iliclr new house in Elmwood Park. JACK MURPHY is with the Air Force in Dayton. Ohio and hopes to be out this summer. I, ran into JIM HART from N. Y. down in Nassau where he and his wUc were spending a few weeks vacation. He is going into the oil business in X. Y. with his family. ROGER BROWN is selling for Clow and is now the father of two boys. JOHN BRODERICK has been on the Sears training program since his separation from ser\-ice. My old roommate, D.AVEY LEIB was married to a girl from San Antonio last April. After leaving XD in '48 lie Went to Minnesota where ho finished his studies to become a dentist. He is now in ser\'ice in Lawton, Okla., and expects to set up practice in Minneapolis in the fall. 
"Saw some familiar faces at the XD-Soiithern Cal game in California. .MART RILEY and FRED BOVI are sharing an apartment. JOE Mx\­HONEY is living at the beach in L. A. Joe went back to ND for two of the games last fall. JOE HELWIG is married and now living in 
L.A.
 TOM a\RTER and DICK COURY, both '51, arc coaching at Santa Anna. Tnm has a boy and a girl. I was in Cour>-'s wedding last June when he married Bonnie Herron from Alliens, Ohio. JACK Lf\MBERT '49, is also living in 

L.
 A. 


"JOE HICKEY became engaged at Christmas to Mar>' McCann of South Bend. They are planning to be married in June. As for myself, I am with the Commonwealth Edison Company in the advertising departmen:. I've been with them since my return from Korea in November of '52 and I might add, enjoying life as a bachelor for the present." Thank you, Hugh, for the news letter. Hope we hear from you soon again. 
BOB K/VNE writes that he married one of the prettiest girls in Indianapolis, Kathleen Welch, on October 4, 1952. Kathleen has brothers by the name of Leo, Tom, John R., Bob, Jim, and Bill, all of whom went to Notre Dame. The first of the Kancs arrived in December, Patrick by name. Bob also came up with Roger Hosbein's address. 
PAUL LExVMY will be married to .Xfarj- Eliza­beth Beck on tlic first of May. Paul is working for the Burrouglis Corporation. 
DON MANION writes that he received his 
J.D. from Loyola University last June and passed the bar in August. Don was admitted to the Illinois State Bar in November, 1953 and is now practicing with his father and uncle in the firm of Manion, Manion Sc Manion. 
The last letter to get in under the deadline comes from JIM FISHER who writes: "JERRY FREE^fAN is married and working for Rnhn and Haas in Huntsville, Alabama. VAL REESIG is out of the army and working in the New York ofHcc of Carbon Carbide. GERRY GRIESMER is with the same outfit, working for their Lindc Air Products Division in Buffalo. JACK JEFFERS has opened up his own business in PhoenixviUe, Pa., and is doing nicely. ERNIfi E.\STMEN*T just finished graduate work at Boston College. According to Ernie, JIM I^'GEL is teaching somewhere in Minnesota. At last report, COLIN' McKAY has returned to Chicago U. to resume his graduate studies which were interrupted by a hitch in the Nav>*. 
*'^\s for myself things have really happened since my last letter. On April 23, 1953, I married Grace Coston, and on January 31, 1954, we became the proud parents of Kathleen Mary. We now live in Darien, Conn. (15 Devonshire Dr.) and must admit that it is better than X. J." 
Jim is still with American Cyanamid in their Stamford, Conn., labs working as a chemist in plastics development. Jim says "there is a very active Xcwman Alumni Club in the area and I have been fortunate enough to be its president for the past two years. If anyone is interested in starting such a group (which is composed mainly of Alumni of non-Catholic colleges) or would just like some general information, I'll be very happy to provide them with it." 
We want to thank Jim a lot for the lengthy letter. Keep up the good work, boy. 
Here in Chicago Bob Murphy and his wife "Grace" had their first baby about the middle of March- It was a little girl and named Marie Theresc. 
Robert J. Klingcnberger 
1951 1717 Pemberton Drive 
Fort Wayne, Indiana 
A letter from JACK DUNLEVY: **The class of '31 is getting spread further and Further, isn't it. 1 saw more guys from our class in Japan while I was over there in '51 and '33—DICK BIR.\IINGHA.\f, JACK CURREN, JI.M a\RRIG, PAT BARRETT, AL WARD, JACK B.\RNETT and others whom I can't seem to think of now. I was out there on the 'AJa.\* a repair ship from October of '31 until April of '32, when the ship came back to the States and I Iiad about four months on the AVest Coast, which I really liked. I got transferred to the 'Boric,' a tincan, in August of '32. She went over to the Mediterranean four days after I reported aboard and stayed until February of this year. That was the only saving factor of this Norfolk duty, the ^[editer^ancan cruise. Course we hit the place at rather a bad time, during the winter months—no French bathing suits on the Riviera, etc. 
*'I run into quite a few of the ND guys here in the Norfolk area. JACK MAKER is legal officer on the 'Midway' and every time I sec him he tries to show me how hard he is work­ing; saw BILL McNALLY today, he is Chief Engineer on a tincan, the 'Strong.* Other guys around here are JI.M DORDING and ;\NDY WALSH (same ship), J. P. DONEY, BOB ING­R,\M, JACK O'BRIEN and TOM O'BRIEN, and I know there must be a heck of a lot more whom I can't think of or don't know about. 
"I'll be getting out of this outfit about next May I figure and then will be looking around fur a job, I guess. Will probably go out to the West Coast and see what I can find," 
DONALD C. DiUSTELS, Woodland, Wsconsin, . was recently released from service and now has a sales and merchandising position with the Morton Salt Company. 
JAMES A. a\RRlG, Gil Virginia Ave., Eric, Pa., is publicity director for the Erie Chapter of the Red Cross. 
AMLLIAM S. SAHM has been appointed Execu­tive Secretary of the Catholic Youth Organiza­tion for the Indianapolis Archdiocese. 
CHARLES E. SHEWALTER, JR., is now living at 3853 Yosemite Street, San Diego, Calif. fUter graduation in 1951, Charlie went to the Navy's Officers* Candidate School and was commissioned the following January. After 16 months at sea on the USS Stoddard, he returned to New Lon­don, Conn., and attended submarine school for 6 months. Charlie married Mary C. Bickel, a St. Mary's girl. Class of 1952. At present he is as­signed to the submarine USS Redfish whose home port IS San Diego. 
DONALD P. SCHILDER, M.D., has been granted a traineeship by the National Heart Institute and will begin work on July I, 1934. 
WALTER KOSYDAR, JR., is now connected with Standard Oil Company in EI Segundo, Calif. Tlic class c-stends their sympathy to Walter on the recent death of his father. 
BILL &\REY and .Miss Helen K-uhn (St. ^rary's '51) were married on February* 27, 1954, in St. Matthias Church, Chicago. DICK MARSHALL served as best man while PAT AIcATEER and TOM CARROLL ushered. The reception was held 
ROBERT A. ERKINS, '47 

Robert A. Erkins, '47, was elected president of the Snake River Trout Company, Buhl, Idaho, in November, 1953, at the age of 29. This unique company is the world's largest trout hatchery. It is a complete trout pro­ducing, freezing and packaging plant. The rainbow produced are shipped throughout the nation to well known hotels, restaurants and food chains. In 
1954, the Snake River Trout Company will produce over 500,000 pounds of rainbow trout. 
Bob is Secretary of the Rocky Mountain Troutmen Association, a member of the Buhl Rotary and Buhl Council of the Knights of Columbus. 
He is a native of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and attended schools in Florida and Ohio. 
At Notre Dame Bob served as foot­ball and baseball manager from 1942­44, and was a member of the Naval ROTC unit from which he was com­missioned an ensign in January 1945, and subsequently served in the Asiatic-Pacific Theatre. 
Returning to Notre Dame in 1946, he obtained his degree in Business Ad­ministration in January 1947, and after graduation entered the hotel business. 
Prior to coming to Idaho he was assistant manager of the Grand Teton Lodge and Transportation Company of Jackson Hole, Wyoming, and Man­ager of the Shadow Mountain Club of Palm Springs, Calif. 
at the Edsewater Beach Hotel and seen among the guests were JIM FERSTEL, '48, (recently elected to the Board of the Alumni Association), HARRY WXISBECKER (former classmate of Carey, Marshall and Mcr\tccr in high school and ivho is nov*" Mayor of Vctvillc and working on his Ph.D. in Chemistry- at XD), and BUDDY POU*ERS. It uas good to sec tlic "Mr. & Mrs. Broadway" team together once again. 
AL ABBEY, now a papa of Alfred E. Abbey, Jr., bom Fd)ruar>* 21, is now stationed at the A\-iation Suppiv OfHcc in Philadelphia. He writes that QUENT MARLOW is there in the Nai.-al Shipyard. 
ED MCCARTHY', *50, whom many of you will remember, is now working in Texas, and his address is Ncsbits Motel, Snyder, Texas. 
BILL 'WHITESIDE was married to Eileen Ann Ferrick on February 27 at St. Francis of Assisi Church in Gcrmantown, Philadelphia. 
BOB HOFF, his address, Lt. Robert Hoff, 02268193, Hdq. Btr>-., 2nd Djv. Arty., APO 248, care of P.M., San Francisco, Calif., writes that he's being kept quite active in Korea, but is looking for^vard to 1955 and his return. 
TOM COSTELLO writes that after two years he's now a civilian again and is with the Public Relations Department of Indiana-Michigan Elec­tric Company. Likes it fine. Incidentally, he*s Ii\-ing in Fort ^\*a>•nc at lOII North Anthony, Fort 'WajTie, Indiana. 
GERRY KERNS, now of 1810 North Arg>Ie. No. 4, Portland, Oregon, ^vritcs that he was discharged on December 4 and decided tliat the Northwest and not Midwest was for him, so now he's in sales training with the ^Vestcm Paper Division of Crown-Zellcrbach Corporation in Portland and loring ever>- minute of it. 
TOM MULLEN has received a nice promotion from Piasecki Helicopter Corporation. He is now tlie Assistant Washington Representative and is currently living in the Hotel Washington, Penn­sylvania Avenue at 15th Street, N. W., Wash­ington, D. C. 
BOB NICKODEM writes that he was married to Miss Margaret M. ^foran from Dumbarton, Scotland, in the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception on July I in St. John, New Bruns­wick. He expects to be getting out of the Army in April and will then settle in Sheboygan, Wisconsin, as he has a job arranged with the Trust Department of the Security National Bank. Incidentally, there is the possibility of Bob's hav­ing a family by summertime. 
Lt. (i- g.) "WILLIAM A. McNALLY re­cently became engaged to Miss Catherine Frances Shea of Newport, R. I. Also, on January 1, Bill left for his second mission to Korea. 
JOHNNY O'BRIEN wxites that he is now in his third year theoIog>' in St. John's Seminar^', Collcgerille, Minnesota, a Benedictine school. The first week of June he will be ordained a sub-deacon for the Diocese of Green Bay. 
BUD HERR is still located in Texas at 3300 Granada, Dallas. (^Vish he'd write and tell us what he is doing down there.) 
JIM JENNINGS, 3206 South Xfaple Avenue, Ber\\yn, III., recently wrote of one of the first deaths that I know of in our class. EMIL J. (AL) JENICEK died on February* 5, 1954, in St. Joseph's Hospital in South Bend. Cause was broncliial asthma and complications. I know we will all \v-ant to add our prayers to the many that have already been said. 
GENE DI BORTOLI came in from Pittsburgh and together with Jim, was a pallbearer. FRED BAUMGARTNER and JOE CHANIGA also were in attendance. 
WALT KOSYDAR writes tliat he is working (or the Standard Oil Company in £1 Segundo, California. His address: P. Q. Box 201, El Se­gundo, California. Also, ^Valt reports that Harry Hassman, ^vho spent one semester with us at ND, is with the Fluor Corporation in Los An­gdcs. 
I became engaged to Miss Margaret A. Schnellbaclier of Washington, D. C , at Christmas­time and have planned our wedding for September 
4. Also, I'd like to ask for your prayers re­membering my fatlier who died on January 25. 
VACO Harry L. Buch ITD Z 309 Fisher HaU Notre Dame, Indiana 
Lt. MOE MORAN stopped at Fisher Hall last 
62 Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June, 1954 

Foundation Governor C. M. Verbiest assembled his city chairmen in Michigan for a briefing V session during the personal solicitation campaign. Participants came to Detroit for an after-| noon of work on Saturday, April 3. The meeting began ^vith a buffet luncheon and chair-k men were on their way home by late afternoon. Sitting (L. to R.) are: Arthur D. Cronin, i Detroit cit>' chairman; Gov. *Marce' Verbiest; John Cackley, of the ND Foundation office. | 
Standing (L. to R.'): Chase Black, Battle Creek city chairman; Lyman Hill, Jackson city v-chairman; Peter J. Kernan, Dearborn city chairman; William Gallagher, Monroe city chair-^y­man; James J. Sherry, Jr., Foundation Advisory Board member; and M, J. Hutchinson, 
member of Special Gifts committee. 
week. He has been discharged from tlie Marines MIKE FALCO is in South Bend working for and is thinking about going to law school. Moe was married in September, 1952, and now has a sLx month old daughter, Kay. Moe told mc that Lieutenants CHARLEY SCHUBERT, JOE STANICHAK, ED PERT and JOHN MARHOE­F£R are with the 4th Marine Regiment in Nara, Japan. FRED HARTMANN has been discharged from the Na^y. 
Lt- (J. sO JOHN HALTER is a supply and disbursing officer of tlic destroyer escort Darby. SPENCE KLUEGEL and EARL MOCK are burn­ing up tlie telephone wires between Seoul and Tacgu, Korea, ^fock still can belch like the good old days. Cpl. GEORGE MARGET, Cpl. DA\'E RICHARDS, Pfc RON \MLDER and Cpl. BILL WHITE are located at Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. 
Cpl. BILL MARTIN is now in Germany at Karlsrukc attaclied to the 529th Field Artiller>'-Obscrvation Battalion. FRANCIS PRICE was re­cently commissioned a 2nd Lt. in the U. S. Army and he is presently stationed at Fort Jack­son, S. C. JACK URB.\IN and TOM BRITT arc currently stationed at Fort Holabird in Baltimore. 
JIM RICHESON is associated with the Pang-born Corporation in Hagcrstown, Md. The Riche­sons had a baby boy, James, Jr., on January 22, 1954. BUZZ BERGER, wife and baby daugh­ter have recently moved lo Harrisburg, Pa. Buzz was formerly ^vith the American Bridge Company in Trenton, N. J. DICK HIDDING is now working for Scars in Waterloo, Iowa. 
Ensign AL BLOUNT is stationed in Gulfport, Miss., as a Disbursing Officer at the Seabee Base. He is married to Katherine Sease and they have a four-month-old daughter, Karen Ann, JOE BATES is stationed at Camp Lejeune, 
N. C , as Secret and Confidential Files Oillcer. He is married to Jane Ann Jackson of Des Moines and on their first wedding anniversary she presented him with a baby daughter. 
BOB PELLER has been stationed in Korea with the Air Force since June of '53. He is do­ing office work and 'a little teaching. BOB WEIGAND writes that he is in a N.A.T.O. out­fit stationed in France, only 29 miles from Paris. JOHN DOCKRY and DAVE DUERR arc in Heidelberg, Germany. Dock is due to be dis­charged in a few months. JIM EBZERY vtss at Camp Kilmer but was due to leave for Asmera Eritrea (Africa). Lt. FRANK HALULA, JR., married Pat Griffin on October 17, 1953. He graduated from Airborne Electronics Officers course 

in Januar>' and was sdieduled to leave Biloxi, 
Miss., for overseas duty. 
Pvt. ROBERT H. KING sau- the World Series from a box seat as a special reward after hav­ing been named tlie most valuable player on the baseball team at Fort Monmouth, N. J. Bob is now an instructor of wire electronics at Ft. Monmouth. JIM PORTER is in Korea and will probably remain there until the summer of 1954. 
Heard from LEE STEIDEN who was at Fort Campbell, Ky., at that writing. As Chairman of the Committee for Dissemination of Useless Information of Kappa Sigma Sorin Fraternity, he tells me that DICK BENEDICT is in Germany. BOB KIRCHGESSNER is at sea with the USS Passumpsic TOM FANNON is with the Air Force at St. Johns, Newfoundland. DON STRAS­SER, LEROY LESLIE and BOB FINK arc at the Kcmpoo Air Base. WALLY S^VXENEY is on his \»-ay over to Korea and DAN REARDON is in Law School at St. Louis University. AL GA­ZORTY and the BERRY Brothers are now en­rolled at Austin-Peary University in Clarks\-ille, Tcnn. Lee claims their Frat is better tlian Phi Betta Walsh ever was. How about that? 
ANDY SLEIGH stopped at South Bend for a couple of hours on his way to the West Coast. He is in the Navy and was shipping out for the Philippine Islands. JOE MORRIS is a clerk in Claims Section of Staff Judge Advocate Division, AVicliita Air Force Base, Kansas. He was mar­ried to Jo Ann Mortimer on November 26, 1953. 
Received a long letter from DON CARILLO ! who Is an Air Force Aviation Cadet in basic Multi-Engine Training at Reese Air Force Base, Texas. He is to get his wings and commission in April. Don tells mc that JIM TWEEDY, DON RILEY, JOE O'CONNOR, BOB WRAY, JOE SCHERER and DON EAGER met at the Met Club Christmas Dance and really had a big time. JIM TAVEEDY is stationed at Quantico. ' He and his wife, Anne, have t^vo sons, Ed and Jim, Jr. DON RILEY is nmning the Riley Engi-' neering and Drilling Company in Brooklyn. JOE ^ O'CONNOR, DOM TRINGALI and JACK MAN-X^ NING are in the Fordham Law School. JOE;^' SCHERER, married and father of a son, is work-ij ing for Wcstinghousc in Baltimore. HANK Mc-"" CORMACK was married December 26 in St.^: Pat's Cathedral in New York. DICK CLARK isle working for Bucyrus Erie in South Milwaukee.^;; Bendix and LOU FALVO is in Buffalo, N. Y,/i-\ working for Bell Aircraft. TONY RUSSO and hi$^;1 
m 

. wife arc parents of a son born in December and VIC TALLARIDA and his wife arc in San Diego, C^if. VINCENT ARNOLD and his wife are living in Pine BlufT, Ark., where he is working with Army Ordnance. Thanks for the letter containing all this news, Don. 
Ensign DOMINICK "RED" CALACCI is in the Coast Guard stationed in Cleveland at the 9th District Headquarters. JOE PEROZZI is studying law at the University of Illinois and JOE COSTELLO, father of a son bom April 18, 1953, is working with his family in the whole­sale liquor business. 
RON ZIER, in Korea with the Second Division, is due back in the States in May and should be discharged by June lOth. BOB KELIN gradu­ated from Infantry O.C.S. in January and is attending a 12-week basic officers course at the 
U. S. Army Finance School, Fort Benjamin 
Harrison, Ind. CINCINNATI—^Notre Dame men, most of whom arc coaches or athletic directors, attend­
Ensign JIM HAMMER is aboard the USS Hel­ena and has been with the task force in Pusan, ing the NCAA meeting in Cincinnati were guests at the alumni dub's cocktul party. Front Korea, and Hong Kong. He was due home in 
February. Ensign DON PIERSON is stationed in row (L. to R.): Dick Friend, Loras; Clem Crowe, Ottawa, Canadian (Pro); Joe 'Chief San Diego, Calif., in a Fleet Air Electronics 
Meyer, U. of Cincinnati; Joe Morrissey, former Irish quarterback; Bob Aladdock, Indiana U. 
Training Center. BOB BEH, Army, is stationed in San Diego attending a Korean Language Second row: Ambrose Dudley, Villanova; Bill Smyth, Xavier; Harry Wright, Georgia; 
School. 
Charles Bachman, Hillsdale; Frank Leahy; Jim Phelan; Harry Stuhldreher, quarterback of 
2nd Lt. AL PIASIO, Army Artillery, is sta­

tioned at Ft. Sill and 2nd Lt. PAT CANTWELL the Four Horsemen; Larry Mullins, Kansas State; Joe Kubarich; Paul Palton, St. I^wrence. is stationed at Ft. Belvoir. 2nd Lt. JIM HAM-
Third row: Andy Pilney, Ttilanc; Joe McArdle; Ed Krause, ND Athletic Director; Joe Bach, 
BY is stationed at Lawson Field, Ga, TOM TRANTER is back in the Commerce School after 
Pittsburgh Steelers; Jim Harris, Holy Cross; Joe Dienhart, Purdue; Buck Shaw, San Fran­
a stay in the Marines. TOM SHEEHAN is out of the ser\'ice and now seeking his degree in cisco 49ers; AVally Fromhart, Detroit; Gene Mayl; Rex Enright, South Carolina; Adam Phy. Ed. FRANK BLEYER coaches football and 
track at Carbondale Community High, Carbon-Walsh, Bo^vdoin; Rip MiUcr, Na\-y; BiU Farley, ND; Vincc McNaUy, Philadelphia Eagles; dale, III. 
Harry Marr, Boston College; George Dickson, ND; Bcmie Witucki, Tulsa; George Terlep, Mr. and Mrs. Timothy Shea of Albuquerque, 
Penn; Milt Piepul, Dartmouth. 
N. Jiicx., announce the engagement of their daughter, Patricia Mary to RALPH GEORGE GLASER, JR., on St. Patrick's Day. No date has been set for the wedding. DICK DONOVAN is to be married in the early part of June. Con­gratulations to you both. 
time in the New York race was 6.5 seconds at the winter quarter convocation on March 19. 
Cpl. ANG CARIDEO is due to be discharged 

which is .4 seconds behind the world's amateur 
from the Xfarincs March 10. BILL GORMAN BERNARD AV. LUTHMAN is employed mth 
indoor record. 
and JACK DAUT are at Camp Lejeune and North American Aviation, Inc., Columbus, O. JERRY COSTELLO is at Camp Pickett, Va. 
JOHN G. BLACKWOOD received an M.S. de­gree from Syracuse University in January, 1954. 
FRED ESSER is the father of a baby girl bom GEORGE T, PATTON has been elected presi­January 30, 1954. dent of the Young Democrats of St. Joseph ^Vell, I guess that's all the news I have at Count>*. RICHARD STUBBINGS has been at the Gradu­this writing. Have to get back to the law books 
ate School of Business Administration, Harvard as those finals are really close. Thanks for the PAUL T. CHANG is a member of the' De­University, as the result of a $1,000 scholarship letters and keep them coming. partment of Political Science faculty, Duquesne he received. University, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
PAUL "BUCKY" EWING, an engineering as­ROBERT KOYSDAR is studying law at Ohio 
195 3 Tho™^ ^^' Reedy 
sistant in the Technical Service Division of State University. He was marri^ to Elizabeth 
511 Monroe Avenue 

Standard Oil Company of New Jersey, recently Scislo ia Toledo, O., in September, 1953. finished first in the 60 yard dash during the run­River Forest, III. ning of the Metropolitan AAU track cham­CHARLIE FLUEHR and GERRY VOIT were pionships in New York City. Bucky was captain JOHN L. DILENSCHNEIDER received a mas­commissioned Ensigns in the U. S. Navy at of the Notre Dame track team in 1932. His ter of arts degree from Ohio State University Newport, R. I., January 29. 
NEW HAVEN—^The recently organized New Haven ND Alumni Club at election night meeting. {L, to R., clockwise): Lawrence Culliney, '28, Joseph P. Bums, '34, AValtcr Lee, '36, John H. Warner, '43, John O'Neill, '44, Dr. Joseph Clifford, '38, John Contway, '26, William L. Piedmont, '49, John Zdamowicz, '36, Bro. Pierre, C.S.C., '33, Edward A. Byrne, '26, and John A. Hart, '38. Photo by Bob Halpin, '34. 
The Alumni Association 
University of Notre Dame 
May 18, 1954 
Dear Notre Dame Men: 

This letter olTere a welcome opportunity to thank all of you for the honor which you have bestowed upon me and to assure you that I shall seive you and our Association to the ver)' best of my ability. 
To John H. Neeson, Jr., my predecessor in office, I offer in your behalf, the gratitude of all for his endeavor to bring unity among our many alumni clubs, having in mind always a stronger, more active, more aggres­sive Alumni Association. 
Also by means of this letter, I would like to di-aw your attention for a few moments to yourself as individual members of the Alumni Associa­tion. An association is only as good as its individual members and its purpose for being. \Vho are you? ^Vhy are you associated? 
You spent an important period of your life under the influence of Our Lady on the Golden Dome. You, those other "lads" who lived and prayed and studied with you, those other men who preceded you and have succeeded you in Sorin, Dillon, Morrissey, etcetera and at the Grotto—you are the members of this Association. 
Of courec, your life at Notre Dame is not all you have in common witli other members of the Alumni Association. As an alumnus, you have had many cvperiences with your fellow man as he has plodded through some of his darkest hours—those unfortunate periods of extreme economic and social maladjustment. You have met men who greed for wealdi and lust for power. You have realized the suffering that selfish men bring to mankind. You have seen the great struggle between men who are good and men who are evil. You realize more vividly that there can be no com­promise in the fight to conquer the evil which attacks your freedom and even your right to be treated as a man. Yes, you undoubtedly have learned to appreciate the kind of and the value of the education and training you received at Notre Dame. These experiences you, also, have in common. 
You, who have personally witnessed the testing of the principles of education fostered at Notre Dame—the training of the whole man; his spirit, his mind and his body—must of necessity be a leading advocate of those principles. Is this not the purpose of your Association? 
You, I know, are proud to be an alumnus of Notre Dame and you envision achievements of leadership for individual alumni and for the Association. If you actively participate in its activities, your Alumni Association can do much to realize these visions. This year your Board of Directors is conscientiously endeavoring to e.\pand and to further develop the splendid achievements of prior administrations. It is our aim to make tlie Association more of a reality and a source of assistance to the individ­ual alumnus and to the local alumni clubs. To succeed, we need your ideas, your criticisms and most of all your personal endeavor. 
Yours sincerely, 
JAMES G. McGOLDRICK, President 
Alumni.Directors | Assigned to Clubs | 
The Alumni Board of Directors has| suggested that individual members of,v the board sponsor specific Local GUibs.| In some instances this has resuked in i personal visits by the board member to:^^ the club as well as correspondence be-^; tween club ofRcere and board represen-; tatives regarding ideas and suggestions '• on the alumni program. | 
Representatives of the Alumni Board | and the clubs they are sponsoring in-| elude: % 
JOHN XEESOX — Philadelphia, Eastern Pa., Harrisburg, Scranton, Wilkcs-Barre, South Jersey, 
! 
WiUiamspurt, Delaware. 
JAMES McGOLDRICK—Ncu- York City, Xeu-Jersey, Central N. J., Mid-Hudson Valley, Capi­tal District. Uridgrpiirt, Schciieclady. 
J.ACK COURTNEY—Detroit, Dearborn, Blue-Water, Lansing, Grand Rapids, Monroe, Saginau-Vallcy, Muskegon. 
RALPH CORYN—Tri-Cities, DcsMomcs, Dubu­que, St. LOUIS, Central III., Eastern III., Rock River Valley, Peona. 
D.\N CULHANE—Washington D. C, Balti­more, Virginia, Carolinas, Tidewater. 
MSGR. TOOMEY—Syracuse, Rochester, Buffa­lo, Mohawk Valley, Triple Cities. 
JACK SAUNDERS—Boston, Pioneer Valley, '^i Connecticut Valley, Naugatuck Valley, Rhode Island. 
DR. O'DONNELL—Pittsburgh, Eric, Mon-Val­ley, ^Vcst Virginia. 
BOB GORE—Fort Lauderdale, North Florida, Miami, Atlanta. 
JOHN McIN*TYRE—St. Joe Valley, Berrien County, Fort Wayne, Michigan City, Elkhart, Eastern Indiana, Indianapolis, Wabash Valley*. 
JOE 0*NEILL—Piioenix, Tucson, .Albuquerque, Dallas, El Paso, Houston, San Antonio, San Diego, Los Angeles. 
JI.M FERSTEI^-Chicago, Fox Valley, Milwau­kee. Aurora, JoHet. 
KARL MARTERSTECK—Cleveland, Canton, Columbus, Hamilton, Sandusky. Youngstown, Ak­ron, Cincinnati, Dayton, Ohio Valley, Toledo. 
JOHN CACKLEY—Fort Smith, .\rk.. Little, Ruck, E\'ansvtllc, Ind., Louisville, Ky., Salina,' Kansas, Chattanooga, Memphis, New Orleans, Northern La. 

. ALL^\N POWERS—Spokane, Utah, Denver, San Francisco, Western Washington, Oregon, Colorado Springs, Idaho. 
i> 
JIM ARMSTRONG—Fox River Valley, LaCrosse, I-Twin Cities, Hiawathaland, Green Bay, South-f.. Central Wisconsin, Duluth-Supcrior, Iron Range, 'i-j. 
And those clubs . outside the boundaries of tlie 4^­United States. % 








