The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 


Compendium 
UNIVERSITY CALENDAR 

Dec 16-Ian. 3. Christmas 
Vacation. 
Ion. 18. Last Class Do; of 
Semester. 
Ian. 19 & 20, Study Days. 
Ian. 2I-2S, Final Exams. 
Ian. 26-30, Semester Brealc 
Ian. 30, Registration. 
Ian. 31, Second Semester 
Begins. 
Feb. 22, Senior Class 
Washington Day Exer­
cises ond "Patriot of the 
Year" Aword. 

THE ARTS 

"The Tempest," the ND­SMC Theatre, O'Laughlin Audit, 8:30 Dm, Dec. 1-3 and 8-10. fiichard Monis, piano con­cert. Library Audit, 8:15 pm, Dec. 5. Lithographs: The "Miserere" Series by George HouauH, East Gallery, O'Shough­nessy Hall, Dec. 4-Ian. 29. "The French in the Per­manent Collection", paint­ings, dravnngs and prints from the 16th to 19lh Cen­turies, East Gallery, O'Shaughnessy Hall, Dec. 4-Apr. 2. Glee Club Christmas Con­cert, Washington Hall, 8:00 pra, Dec. 12. The Everett and Ann Mc-Near Collection of Persian and Indian Miniatures, West Gallery, O'Shaugh­nessy Hall, Jan. 8-Feb. 12. Arthur N. Seiff Collection of Pre-Columbian Sculpture and Pottery, West Gallery. O'Shaughnessy Hall, Nov. 27-Ian. 1. The Sculptures of Krishna, West Gallery, O'Shaugh­nessy Hall, Jan. 8-Feb. '12. 
Progress Report Mo. 2 on the construction of the Ath­letic and Convocation Cen­ter reveals that the project is 14 per cent complete. The report, dated Nov. 22, further indicated that the National Players from Catholic U, "The Merchant of Venice", Jan. 13 and "The Bu-ds". Jan. 14, Wash­ington Hall. "The Playboy of the West-em World". ND-SMC The­atre, Washington Hall, 
8:30 pin, Feb. 2-4 and 9-11. 
Symphony strings, Feb. 9 and 14. Marilyn Mason and Paul Doctor, Organ and Viola Concert, Sacred Heart Church, Feb. 7. 
Hev. Patrick Moloney CSC, 
tenor, concert, Feb. 16. 
Shelley Grushldn Trio, 
members of the NY Pro Musica, Library Audit, Feb. 24. 
BOOKS 
Faculty and Alumni Bro. Eilion Beime '29, "From Sea to Shining Sea," an illustrated history of the founding and early years of ND and the CSC Broth­ers, Holy Cross Press. Dr. George Brinkley, asst prof, of gov. and intemat'l studies, "The Volunteer Army Intervention in South Russia, 1917-1921," UND Press, 58.95. 
Rev. Richard Butler OP '42, "Themes of Concern," a 
commentary on contempo­rary concepts that chal­lenge the Christian faith, Doubleday & Co., Nov. 4, $4.95. Dr. Robert Caponigri, prof, of phil., "Major Trends in Mexica n Philosophy," translation of a collection of contemporary papers of the Congress of Philoso­phy, Aug., UND Press. Billy Casper (here hi 1950), "Golf Shotmaking •with Billy Casper," Doubleday & Co., $4.95. 
million-plus building is on schedule for its Decem­ber, 1968 completion date. (In the last issue of the ALUMNUS a December, 1967 target dale was in er­ror.) Officials ath-ibute the 
Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald CSC '28, prof, econ., "The Common Market's Labor Problems," Nov., UN D Press. 
John V. Hinkel '29, "Arling­ton: Monument to Heroes," a study of the national shrine and of the men buried there, Prentice-Hall, $3.95. 
Paul I. McCarthy '50. "Al­gebraic Extensions of Fields," a text designed for use in graduate study of the theory of fields, Blais­dell Pub. Co., Oct 7. $8.50. Ralph M. Mdnemy. assoa prof, of phih, "Thomism in on Age of Renewal," a study of the role of St Thomas' works in the con­text of the 20th Century, Doubleday & Co., Nov. 25, $4.95. 
Dr. John C. Meagher '56, 
asst prof, of Eng., "Method and Meaning in Jonson's Masques," a study of the form and design of Jonson­ian masques, July, UND Press. 
Rev. John A. O'Brien, 
author-in-residence, "Nevr Horizons for Christian Uni­ty," an explanation of the 24 articles of the Decree on Ecumenism, paperback. Li­turgical Commission of Wichita, Kan. 
Fronds H. Raven, assoc. prof. mech. engr., "Math­ematics of Engineering Systems," deals with the application of advanced methods to the solution of engineering problems, Mc­
Graw-HiU. WilUam I. Whalen '46, "A Handbook of Secret Organi­
zations," Bruce Pub. Co. 
excellent building pace to good weather and the use of a computerized program called the "critical path scheduling" system that keeps abreast of the con­struction's progress. 


CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
Donforth Regional Conf., 
Dec. 1-4. 
Fifth ND Cont on Popula­
tion, "The Role of the 
Family in the Population 
Explosion", Dec. 1-3. 
Resources Conservation 
Conf., "Sharing the Costs 
of Water and Air Pollution 
Control," sponsored by the 
Depts. of Econ. and Civil 
Eng., Dec. 9. 
International Markets Conf.* 
"Challenges and Opportu­nities in Today's Interna­tional Market" sponsored by the St Joseph Bank and Trust Co., Dec. 13. 
Manpower Planning ConL. 
sponsored by the Associ­ates Finance Co. of South Bend, Feb. 2. 


FACULTY APPOINTMENTS 
Canon A. L. Gobriel, dir. of the Mediaeval Institute, named the first honorary Doctor of the Ambrosian Library in Milan, Italy at the request of Pope Paul VL 
Dr. Robert E. Glennen Jr. PhD '62, assoc. prof, of test­ing and guidance, to the post of asst. dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. Rabbi Samuel E. Korif, of the Chicago Sinai Con­gregation, to the faculty as a visiting assoc. prof, in the Dept of TheoL 
Dr. lomes Michael Lee. 
assoc. prof, of educ, to head of Dept of Educ. Dr. lohn R. Molone '42. 
prof, of marketing and management to the newly created post of assoc. dean of the College of Business Administration. 
Dr. lohn L. Magee, prof, of chem. and assoc. dir. of the Radiation Lab., to the post of head of the Dept of Chem. 
Rev. tCchoel J. Murphy CSC '45, assoc. prof, of geology, to the post of asst dept head. 
lohn Oesterle, assoc. prot of phiL as editor of "The New Scholasticism," the quarterly of the American Catholi c Philosophical Assn. 
Vincent R. Raymond, asst dean of Freshman Year of Studies and assoc. prof, of management, to the post of asst dean of the Col­lege of Business Admin­istration. 

Aiumni Ask-
Bobert J. Schultz '40, assoc. prof. of architecture, elected VP of the Indiana Society of Architects. Rev. Edward Siegman CJ>P.S., assoc. prof, of theology, elected pres. of the Catholic Biblical Assn. of America. Donald E. Spoileder. assoc. prof, of architecture, elect­ed sec. of the Northern Indiana Chapter of the American Institute of Ar­chitects. Rev. Eusebius A. Steph­onou, pastor of Holy Trin­ity Greek Orthodox Church, Fort Wayne, Ind., to the faculty as a visiting assoc. prof, in the Dept. of Theol. Terry Turner USMC, asst. prof, of naval science, promoted from captain to rent of major. 
GRANTS 
University, $4,800 unre­
stricted grant from Sears-
Roebuck Foundation. University, Oct., $2,400 un­restricted grant from East­man Kodak Co. University, $1,290 grant 
from Travelers Insurance Co. University, $171,900 grant for support of an "Aca­
demic Year Institute in 
Mathematics for Secondary 

School Teachers" from NSF, under the direction of Dr. Abraham Goetz, assoc. prof, of math. University, $580 matching grant from Aetna Life and Casualty Co. University, Oct., $87,000 research grant from NSF for a two-year study of hydrodynamic effects on macroscopic solidificalion, under the direction of Dr. Kwang-tzu Yang, prof, of mech. engr., and Dr. Albin 
A. Szewczyk, assoc. prof, of mech. engr. University, $12,000 renewal grant from the Cancer So­ciety of St. Joseph County, Inc. for microbiological re­search under direction of Dr. Kiorris Pollard, dir. of LOBUND and dept head of microbiology. University, July, $60,880 de­velopment grant for master of arts teaching program, under the direction of Don­ald J. Wehmeyer, asst. prof, of educ. Microbiology Department. Sept., $12,978 from Council for TolDacco Research for cancer research with germ-free animals under the direction of Dr. Ole A. Holtermann, research sci­entist, and Dr. Morris Pol­lard, prof, of microbiology. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 
Center for the Study ol Man in Contemporary So­ciety, Sept., $54,115 re­newal grant from US Dept. of HEW for a study of drug and vocational han­dicaps, under the direc­tion of Dr. George N. Shuster, asst. to the pres. Chemistry Department, Sept., $19,000 grant from NSF for a study of reduc­tion with complex metal hydrides, under the direc­tion of Dr. Ernest Eliel, prof, of chem. Cbemistry Department. Sept., $20,940 research grant from National Insti­tutes of Health for a study of syntheses and conforma­tion in heterocyclic chem­istry, under the direction of Dr. Ernest Eliel, prof, of chem. 
Dr. Ernest Eliel, Sept, $7,500 grant from Shell Companies Foundation, Inc. for fundamental re­search. 
Dr. Charles Brambel. prof, of chem.. Sept, $16,365 from National Institutes of Health for a study of hemo­
poietic response to whole i)ody radiation. 
Dr. Bernard Cullity, prof, of metallurgical engr., re­search grant from Bethle­
hem Steel Corp. Dr. Frank D'Alelio, research chem. prof., $5,300 renewal grant from Xerox Founda­
tion for study of polymers. Dr. Roger K. Bretthauer. asst prof, of chem., $37,544 National Institutes of Health grant for study of yeast cell free protein synthesis. Chemistry Department, Sept, $5,000 grant from 
American Chemical Society for a study of nuclear spin-spin couplings in hydro­carbons, under the direc­tion of Dr. Gerhard Binsch, 
asst prof, of chem. 
LEaURES 
Cardinal O'Hara Memorial Lecture, Dr. Frits Machlup of Princeton, Library Audit, Feb. 15. ISth Aimual Union Man­agement Conf., sponsored by the Dept of Econ., Washington Hall, Feb. 23­24. Challenges in Science Lec­tJire. Dr. Edward Teller of the Radiation Lab of the 
U. of California, Feb. 6. Academic Commission Lec­ture. Student Government Drew Pearson, Library Audit, Feb. 7. 1967 Low School Sympo­sium. Feb. 18. 
TO THE EDITOR: How does one begin to say thanks to an ideal, a spirit a tradition? May I say it is a great honor to be the vrife of a Notre Dame man. I am overwhelmed with the thoughtfulness of other such men. It has been over four years since George graduated. It has been seven months since my husband has been in heavy combat in Vietnam. Our son is three now and misses his wonderful father so very much; he will be fine, however, for other Notre Dame men have stuck by from far and near. What is it they say? "When the going gets tough the tough get going." 
Men iifce Tom Jorling '62 . . - Pat Hughes '62 . . . and Greg Chaisson, who wasn't even in the Class of '62, are constantly here to see if we need something. It's hard to say if Notre Dame helps mold such men or if such men have molded it into the wonderful institution it is. Perhaps our son will be fortunate enough to follow his father to the University of Our Lady. Until then I shall forever be grateful and honored to have shared with my husband the warmth of such friendships. 
Mrs. GEORGE D. WILLIAMS ('62) 
Norwell, Mass. 

TO THE EDITOR: Often when I have found a friend's liberalism fuelled with the genuine fire of love, tempered by mature prudence, and made beautiful by the aura of mercy, that friend has been a Roman Catholic. However, most "good" Catholics are not liberals. Most of my classmates at Notre Dame were not nor vrere other Catholic college alumni I have met since. "A fortiori" they are not radicals. Dr. Hassenger's alumni profile for 1966 confirms this "Zeitgeist" and the member of the Class of '51 epitomizes it when he says, "Catholics hove no business as such in racial problems." 
The other major news in the 1966 Fall ALUMNUS goes far to explain this. I refer to the parochial school study. Notre Dame alumni ore the product of more than just Notre Dame. Until Father Hesburgh became its president I feel that Notre Dome was the product of other Catholic forces and not their shaper. And the vector of these forces has been caution, fear, conservatism and coldness. Is it any wonder that Vatican II has troubled us and has triggered the eruption from our lunatic fringe of the "Yellow Sheet"? 
It is heartening to me to see Notre Dame in the vanguard of those who propose to change it because the lesson of Our Lady's life is not to scorn those who dislike us, and not to withdraw from those who need us. The questions I should like to see answered by my fellow alumni are: Do we want our University to follow us or to lead us? Have we the perfect society to which we want Notre Dame to conform or have we a University good enough to search out and teach a new, a better and a warmer form for our society where charity, justice and genius alike can flourish? 
WILUAM KEENAN '43 New York City 
TO THE EDITOR: 

On Oct 231 attended my mother's 92nd birthday celebration. While discussing Notre Dame generally she asked whether I could determine if her sons had set a numerical record for Notre Dame graduates in the scone family. My parents had seven sons graduated between 1921-1940. There was at least one present each year for a period covering 23 consecutive years. While I realize that this may cause some research I would appreciate it if you could give me an 
answer for her. 
WILUAM C. OTOOLE '34 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 

ED. NOTE: The only other Notre Dame family that comes to mind or to questioning is the Crowe family. Alumni who claim a larger ND family are invited to contribute to our "record book." 
fi>-'==^'^»>«*--^-'''»-'^'^'-^*^'7T'-'-"-'''^'^'^''-'~^<^-*'^ 
/ /.'llllkw.­ 
':V t-:  
*^  '  
/i  
^  ^  
1  

^#1!; 

K.-r> 
^
#Ti 

t^-^ 

IHiilliii Mmamotk a'B..:g.>;7.^Jr;wy;.ai^.;ggga5S ^^.^mrnsm 
from the  
managing editor  
Despite several inches of snow and subfreezing tempera­ 
tures, thousands of students and townfolk trudged  
across Notre Dame's campus to die ancient fieldhouse  
the last Monday in November to welcome back their  
national football champions. Their chant of "We're  
number one" resounded throughout that bleak wintry  
night just as clearly as it did 10 weeks earlier on. the  
sun-baked afternoon of the season's opener. For these  
followers of tlie Fighting Irish and the loyal legions  
of others across the country, the 1966 intercollegiate  
football season was indeed rewarding. Even the nation's sportswriters—be they pro or anti ND—enjoyed a banner gridiron season particularly noted for its. pro­ * f>f  ./v ^t  
liferation of news stories and features. Notre Dame's  
ALUMNUS, not to be remiss in its responsibilities to a  
readership which is the team's greatest group of sup­ 
porters, also has saved one final cover and lead story  
for a i^Tap-up of a season tliat inll be discussed for  
many years and in many chapters yet to come.  
. . . NOT SINCE '49 Pg 6  
Though momentarily football has gained the ALUMNUS'S  
spotlight, we have launched in this issue an important  
series of university-related articles which we feel is  
worthy of equal time and space. Related to issues that  
confront all university communities, the series begins  
with a debate by two Alumni faculty on the traditional  
question: "Is the primary role of the university that of  
teaching or research?" Readers undoubtedly will be  
as interested in the divergent points of view expressed  
by Ed Cronin '38 and Jerr>' Massey '56 as were many of  
the Alumni who attended this past year's reunion where  
the issue and the debaters first came to tlie fore.  •  ^  :  ^  
CONCEPTS OF ACADEME Pg 48  
Happily, we've been able to focus in on still another  
Alumnus this issue. Dick Colgan '57 relates an un­ 
usual story about an out-of-the-way landmark on the  
Notre Dame campus. Witli the. appearance of this  
article taken from the Alumni portfolio of writings,  
may we invite other Alumni who have written pieces  
of interest to the Notre Dame family to submit tliem  
for publication in a future issue of tlie magazine.  
NOBODY NOTICES ME Pg 14  
And to all Alumni, may I take this opportunity on  "ar­ >  
behalf of Jim Armstrong, Jim Cooney and tlie entire  
Alumni Office to extend to you and your families best  
wishes for a very happy holiday season.  

INDEX  
Alumni Ask  1  Law School  —  39  
ClassesClubsCompendiumEditorials  16 40 1 4  Photoany .  Potpourri  Sports ..  Topside Briefs .  60 6 54 12  '.-•Sf'J  

The ALUMNUS magazine is published bimonthl/ by ihe Universify of Nofre Dame/ Notre Dame, Ind. -46556. Entered as second-class matter Oct. 1, 1939, of the post office, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 
^ig^M^ga^aS^ga?;^ig««i5!°^aga-nii»T^t^'CT 
a 
NOTRE DAME 

ITORIAL 
.mill 

ItBsteadf 
question 
the resuit! "I'm certainly glad I graduated from Notre Dame when I did. I couldn't even met the entrance requirements today." 
Sound familiar? When did you say it last? Probably about the same time I did—the last time I had a chance to associate %vith a group of progressive, stimulating, intelligent, typical undergraduates. 
It doesn't bother me a bit to think that I might not be able to pass some of the e-\ams the present student takes. It is, I tliink, most desirable tliat each class should take up where the class aliead leaves off. I am 
A timeiess eotieept 
"Sacrifice" seems to be a long-used word on its way to becoming archaic. Partly, this trend follows the concept that progress, prosperity, and plenty are the manifest destiny of America, raining like manna on those who simply believe in it. Partly, it has to follow the processes of psychological softening which have made it unnecessary for millions of individuals to face adversity, or difficult issues. 
In any event, the point of these remarks is that sacrifice remains as a vital factor, especially in success. (As a digression, failure today involves very little sacri­fice as compared to other eras of history.) The "haves", through voluntary and involuntar>' channels, are sacri­ficing more and more so tliat the "have-nots" sacrifice less and less. The "boss" sacrifices more hours and more benefits so that the "employee" sacrifices less time and receives more benefits. America is sacrificing fantastically because the ideological leadership of the free world demands such sacrifice for its salvation, and many who 
proud, as you should be, of the fact that Notre Dame students continue to progress. However, the fact that die knowledge possessed by today's students is more advanced than that of past years does not mean that tlie stature of a Notre Dame man has changed. 
I recently saw announced a seminar at one of our major universities. The title was "What Knowledge is Most Worth Having." It is a difficult, an impossible question to answer. Each class at Notre Dame is given a different "knowledge", and each may be important in its own time. However, a question that is applicable at all times is, it seems to me, the more important question, '^Vhat Have You Done with What You Have Learned." 
The stature of any Notre Dame man today is measured, not by whether he could pass an exam, but by what he has done with what he has learned. 
What have you done, and what can you do for Notre Dame with what you have learned? 
bg Thomag P. Carney '37 
share our beliefs are unable or unwilling to share our sacrifices. Catholics are making a great sacrifice to preserve their belief in the essential relationship between religion and education, between moral and intellectual training. A vivid and familiar e.xample of sacrifice is the ranking of the Notre Dame football team, achieved by the combined sacrifices of coaches and players think­ing, working, training, and creating the stuff of champions in the face of a more common and accepted commitment to mediocrity. 
What is this "sacrifice" kick? 
Well, it just seems to follow that the present tre­mendous stature of Notre Dame as a university, no longer just among the Catholic schools but in the eyes of the world, has implications for all of us. The up­coming 125th anniversary of the founding (1842) will revive the familiar stories of the sacrifices that went into that century and a quarter. Most of those sacrifices were material. To remain on top, and to hold and advance that leadership, will of course continue to involve material sacrifices. 
But they will involve more—they will involve some ideological sacrifices in areas of organizational structure, student discipline and faculty dedication. It.is important for you, as Alumni, to maintain a constant communica­tion wth Notre Dame. Because unless you understand the complete pattern of sacrifice involved in the destiny" of the University, it \n\\ be unlikely that progress will enlist your material support, as it must. 
Don't wait to be drafted to think—^volunteer now! 
-by Jmmem E. Armstrong '23 
. ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1946 DECEMBJR 

Cause tor pride and appreciation 
In the preceding editorialsj Tom Carney and Jim Armstrong speak of pride and sacrifice. In the case of Notre Dame men and their alma mater, pride and sacrifice are reciprocal. Because they are proud of their university, men of Notre Dame again and again have sacrificed for it. And because of their sacrifices, Notre Dame has recorded achievements which generate renewed pride among its graduates. Let's look at the past 12 months. 
On the eve of its 125th anniversary there is solid evidence that Notre Dame is bigger and better than ever before. Enrollment stands at a record 7,425. Con­struction is under way, or will be very shortly, on no less than six buildings. The Athletic and Convocation Center, when completed in 1968-69, will dwarf the sta­dium. A new post office to serve the growing University will be dedicated February 12. Contractors are busy erecting a new Lobund laboratory and additions to Nicuwland Science Hall and the power plant. And architects are drawing final plans for Hayes-Healy Cen­ter, a new facility for the College of Business Ad­ministration. 
Meantime, substantial progress is being made in the academic area. Recruiting of outstanding students is under way on a score or more campuses for the Master of Business Administration Program to be inaugurated next September. A new graduate department of micro­biology offering a doctorate was created in mid­summer. An expanded program of nuclear physics research will result from the installation of a more powerful "atom smasher" in the Nieuwland Science Hall addition. And Notre Dame's leadership in the post-conciliar age has been bolstered with the inaugura­tion of a doctoral program in theology and the estab­lishment of an Institute for Higher Religious Studies. 
The Center for Continuing Education is just about the liveliest place on campus. Since it was dedicated last March, more than 150 conferences have been held in this handsome facility. Not all have approached the stature or size of the international conferences on Vatican II theology or Marxist ideology, but the variety of conferences, seminars and professional meetings is rapidly making the Center what it was intended to be: a national and even international crossroads where men meet and ideas contend in the hospitable climate of a University growing in greatness. 
Notre Dame's stature today can be attributed to many things. Among these certainly is leadership. The leadership of its president extends far beyond the cam­pus. The responsibilities which Father Hesburgh carries out in serving the government, the Church and all higher education give him a rare perspective of Notre Dame's place in the world today and a vision of its role tomorrow. Nor is leadership confined to the president's office. An increasing number of faculty members hold top posts in national professional organizations. The presidents of the American Catholic Philosophical Asso­ciation and the American Catholic Historical Associa­tion, for example, are both Notre Dame professors. 
Another source of Notre Dame's strength, of course is the support it receives from its alumni, friends, cor­porations and foundations. At midsummer the three-year Challenge II Program came to a phenomenally successful conclusion. Its goal ^vas $20,000,000; the total of gifts and grants was $22,084,291. The impact of this most successful program will reverberate through­out the University for a long time. 
Add to all this—physical growth, academic develop­ment, outstanding leadership and solid financial sup­port—a national championship football team, and you have many reasons for Notre Dame men to be both proud and thankful. And though the University has been part of the American scene for nearly 125 years^ the Notre Dame story is only beginning. Tomorrow will bring more sacrifice, but even greater pride, too. 
-fry Jmmms E. Mmrpkw ^47 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER W66 DECEMBER 
• • • not sinee ^49 
IT hardly matters if he were Irish or Armenian, the envisionist who be­lieved tliat the third time is the charm laiew something of his subject matter. And for sure, he knew a lot about Ara Parseghian. The football season just past \\'as Parseghian's third crack at producing a national football champion since becoming coach at Notre Dame. His first two seasons were but near misses. Developing national football cham­pions %s'as not his commission when he agreed in late December, 1963, to tlie head mentorship. Yet, everyone knew that the sights of the now 43­year-old coach were trained on pro­ducing not only a representative team for the Universit)', but the best team in the land. And here in 1966 he has done just that For the last 17 years, title to the mythical football crown has escaped the clutches of the Fighting Irish. Not since 1949 has any Notre Dame eleven been officially recognized as "best in the nation." Prior to the then na­tional championships for tlie Rockne, Layden and Leahy-coached teams were as common as ihe football is pig­skin. Notre Dame's eighth footb^l title in 1949 \\-as preceded by cham­pionship seasons in 1924, 1929, 1930, 1938, 1943, 1946 and 1947. Now, today's Notre Dame students and younger Alumni can appreciate the boasts made by their elders of the magnificence of bj-gone Notre Dame teams. But what is more, this same younger group can rightfully stake its own cl^m to this year's squad being the best ever. Who's to judge? 
'6 
-f 

History of past titles. In 1924, cap­tained by Adam Walsh and coached by Knute Rockne, who %\'as then in his seventh year as head coach, the Fighting Irish brought to Notre Dame its first national football championship with a perfect 9-0 record. 
It was the same year that ND, led by the Four Horsemen who were im­mortalized by Grantland Rice after the Army game, made its only post­season bowl appearance, beating Stan­ford in the Rose Bowl on New Year's Day, 27-10, before 53,000 spectators. Notre Dame's lineup in '24 now sounds like a football hall of fame: Crowley, Layden, Miller, Stuhldreher, Collins, Bach, Weigel, Walsh, Kizer, Miller and Hunsinger. 
Five years later Rockne fielded his second championship team — nine wins and no defeats — with the likes of Moon Mullins, Jack Elder, Joe Savoldi, Captain Johnny Law, Frank Carideo and Jack Cannon. That year was also unusual by virtue of the fact that there were no home games since the Notre Dame Stadium was tlien under construction. 
The stadium's dedicatory year. 
JIM LYNCH 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER }966 DECEMBER 
1930, was marked by ND's third national championship in seven sea­sons, a year that saw Frank Carideo named to ever)- All-American team. It was also Rockne's last year. All business in South Bend was suspended from noon until 2 pm as more than 25,000 people turned out to welcome home the 10-0 victorious team back from the West Coast and Southern California. 
From Rockne to Layden. Notre Dame's fourth national crown came in 1938. Coached by Elmer Layden and cap­tained by Jim McGoIdrick, the Fight­ing Irish were awarded national hon­ors despite their loss to Southern Cali­fornia, 13-0, in tile last game of the season. 
From there on in, it was all Leahy, the master strategist, who brought home four titles, 1943—1946—1947— 1949. These years produced innumer­able great moments in Notre Dame football history. 
1943 was the year Angelo Bertelli won the Heisman Trophy despite his midseason departure to join the Ma­rines. Bertelli's shoes, like those at many positions up and down the line, had to be filled by freshmen and soph­omore performers such as Johnny Lu­jack, Bob Kelly, Julie Rykovich and Fred Barley. Yet the war year pro­duced a 9-1 record and Mr. Leahy's first championship team. 
And the Leahy era. Twenty years ago this fall, in 1946, a deadlock battle, much like tiiis year's ND-MSU game, dramatized another Irish champion­ship team. The Fighting Irish and Army hooked up in a 0-0 tie on No­vember 9 in New York's Yankee Sta­dium. The long-remembered contest featured such greats as Johnny Lu­jack, Doc Blanchard, Glenn Davis, Arnold Tucker, George Connor, Emil Sitko and Terry Brennan. At season's end, despite the tie game and the 8-0­1 Notre Dame record, the Irish were champs again for the sixth time. 
Leahy wasted no time in picking up Notre Dame's seventh title. The very ne.xt year, 1947, under the team lead­ership of George Connor, the Irish went undefeated during their nine-game season, scorin g 291 points 
NICK EDDY PETE DURANKO 
AlUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBEK 
against the oppositions' 52. This was the first undefeated and untied team since the last team of Rockne's. Seven regulars were named to one or more All-American teams and Lujack be­came the second of six Notre Dame players to win the Heisman Trophy. 
The last championship title before this year's was recorded in 1949 when the Fighting Irish finished a 10-0 sea­son, tile last perfect record Notre Dame has had. That year the team led by such greats as Leon Hart, Jim Martin and Bobby Williams broke the school's offensive scoring record by chalking up 360 points against the op­positions' 86. That record remained intact until this year when the 1966 edition of the Fighting Irish scored 362. 
And now the ninth Notre Dame championship football team has en­tered its own chapter in national foot­ball history. 
Now ihc new era. In addition to smashing the school's season-total scor­ing mark, this year's Irish topped many attendance, defensive and other offensive records. Yet, this year's champions can hardly be known mere­ly in terms of statistics and records. 
More dominantly, this title-holding team will be remembered for its su­preme team effort. Individual per­formers shone brightly at various times throughout the season but when injuries stacked up many of these stars, the ability of the team to carry on shone brightest at the end of the season. This consideration perhaps more than any other merited the 1966 National Football Championship for Notre Dame. 
Like the all-star cast which mus­tered the University's first national title in 1924, this year's team sported a lineup that must go down in ND's annals as one of the finest. Five mem­bers of tile ball club consistently were spotted on nearly all of the AU-American teams while others were given secondary mention. Awarded first-team berths were linebacker and team captain Jim Lynch, halfback Nick Eddy, offensive guard Tom Regner, defensive tackle Pete Duran­ko and defensive end Alan Page. 
TOM REGNER AL\N PAGE 
Add to these the other All-American potentials — of the offensive line led by center George Goeddeke, the spar­kling group of sophomores, and the rugged lot of defensive players who limited the opposition to a mere 38 points — and one be^ns to under­stand why they are one of ND's greatest teams. 
(continued on page 54), 
FACULTY: 
Fusion of Forces 
The representative form of govern­ment has taken on a new meaning for university administrators these days, if not an urgently relevant role. A development which has contributed much to this appreciation is the present-day stance of the faculty member who wants the opportunity to voice his feelings on how the uni­versity should be run. 
No longer content to only teach, the faculty member wants a part in the administrative decision malting at the university. As a result, university administrators and faculty are quickly learning the value of sharing their talent and relying on one another for the good of the university. 
At Notre Dame, where over 600 faculty—including two women—teach over 7,000 students and carry out research under grants that annually exceed $5 million, the cry for repre­sentation has fallen on apt ears in the administrative oflBces under the Golden Dome. 
Notre Dame is no St. John's with its corps of disgruntled, striking profes­sors. But Notre Dame is a modem university and the atmosphere is charged—as it is elsewhere—with the demand for academic freedom. The demand is tempered, however, by the realization that a university is a complex institution that will best benefit from the fusion of faculty and administrative ideas rather than the fission of them. 
It is in this atmosphere that an effort to produce cohcsiveness in the faculty and administration has truly been made. The step is the produc­tion of a Faculty Manual. No other Catholic college or university has yet undertaken to produce such a docu­ment although the precedent was set at Notre Dame in 1954. 
The University's original manual was a lengthy, detailed account of the duties of the Notre Dame faculty. But it was so detailed that it aged a hundred times as fast as the paper it was printed on. The new Faculty Manual, which will be made public ne-Kt February, is the combined work of the faculty and the administration. It i? now 41 pages of manuscript and 

notes. When printed, after the Aca­
demic Council trims it and generalizes 
itj the Manual should run from 20-25 
pages. In February the Board of Lay 
Trustees will have a look at the docu­
ment and give final ratification to it 
The movement toward creating a new faculty manual began in 1964 when Notre Dame's president. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, had a provisional draft of a new manual prepared and sent to each faculty member for study. Shortly diereafter, faculty committees from each of die colleges were elected to discuss die draft and make specific recommenda­tions to a final facult)' committee who would write die last draft of die manual and, in turn, submit it to die Academic Council. Members of this latter committee were Professors Bartholomew, Bums, DeSantis, Kom­mer, Robinson (chainnan) and Vasta in liberal arts; Crane and Houck in business administration; CuUit)' and Shilts in engineering; Kenney, Magee and StoU in science: AVard in law; and Philippsen from the Memorial Library. 
Dr. Thomas Stewart, associate vice-president for academic affairs and secretary of the Academic Council, is die key man for the administration dealing with die framing of the new manual. He described the document as it was submitted this month by the Robinson committee as "carefully thought out, well \Mitten widi many good features." 
The manual is meant to provide a clear channel of communication between the faculty and die admin­istration at Notre Dame. The estab­lishment of a facult)' senate as pro­posed in the new manual should pro\ade the channel, according to Stewart Such areas of interest as curriculum, the calendar and testing dates, and facult\' appointments to department headships would be dealt with in this faculty forum, com­mented Stewart 
He did add, however, that what­ever recommendadons are made by such a senate would in no way be binding on the final administrative decision, although diey would carry a good deal of weight since they would represent the opinions of the faculty. "Each case would be considered care­fully and indixadually by the Aca­demic Council and other administra­tive arms of the University," he said. 
Stewart pointed out that the Faculty Manual, as it is now before the Council, wil l probably be "pruned" somewhat This pruning means that it would be made more general and less detailed than it is as presented. Too many details tend to cause prematiure obsolescence, Stewart explained. 
There are three general schools of thought espoused by the faculty toward the manual, he oudined. Those in favor of it (who are in the majorit)', according to Stewart), diose who want nodiing to do with tlie administration of the University, and those who don't care one way or die other. He said those in the third category' are probably few and far between because faculty members generally are apt to hold a point of view, pro or con, and few if any ignore the situation. 
The Faculty Manual, in its final form next Februar>', will generally update all the policies governing the relationship between administrators and faculty. The faculty senate, a bright new idea in the manual, is yet only a part of it Indeed, die manual itself is only part of a larger move­ment "W'e must rely on the intel­ligence of the faculty in administering the Universitjv' Dr. Stewart com­mented. "The key movement of the University' today is the searcli for authenticity and an answer to the question 'what is a university?' 
"The faculty Manual will enable the administration to draw on the faculty as sensitive, intelligent people to make decisions, and it will insure diat whenever facultj' leadership in the Universit>' is called for, it will be ready and waiting," Stewart con­cluded. 
ADMINISTRATION: 
New Deutsehiander 
Dr. Francis T. McGuire '35 resigned as die University's vice-president for special projects at the end of Novem­ber to assume overall direction of the European, Middl e Eastern and African operations for Deere and Co., farm equipment manufacturers. 
In announcing Dr. McGuire's 
DR. FRANCIS T. McGUIRE From Veep fo Managing Director 

resignation Notre Dame's President 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC 
praised his contribution to the progress 
of the University in the various areas 
under his supervision during the past 
18 months. 
"Dr. McGuire" noted Fr. Hes­

burgh, "has combined in his person 
the practical e.xperience of the busi­
ness executive and the disciplined 
knowledge of the scientist-engineer. 
He brought special wisdom to bear 
on the administration of Notre Dame's 
ever-growing research program. He 
•was at the same time an effective liaison between the University and the Michiana community in a grow­ing number of common problems, projects and new opportunities. AVe will miss Frank McGuire's presence and fruitful activity at the University. We all wish him the best in this new and challenging assignment of ad­ministering Deere's widespread activity in Europe and Africa." 
Dr. McGuire became a Notre Dame vice-president in June, 1965. He has served as chairman of the University's Research Council and has been associated with a number of special projects and studies. He was Notre Dame's representative on die Committee on Higher Education in Northern Indiana, a group of civic leaders seeking the establishment of a state-supported medical school in South Bend. He has also ser\'ed as vice-president of United Civic Prog­ress. Dr. McGuire holds three Notre Dame degrees, a bachelor's in mechanical engineering, a master of science and a PhD in metallurg)'. 
In his new work as managing director of John Deere, S..\., the firm's overseas subsidiary, he will be in charge of all operations including manufacturing, marketing and fi­nance. His headquarters will be in Heidelberg, Germany. Until now, Deere's key overseas functions were reported to the company's central offices in Moline, 111. 
Joining Deere's organization in 1949, McGuire held posts of increas­ing responsibility culminating in his appointment as vice-president for research in 1963. In earlier years he was foundry manager of Sibley Machine and Foundry Corp., South Bend; laboratory director for the Republic Steel Corp., Chicago; and associate professor of metallurgical engineering at the University of Kentucky. 
His wfe is the former Anne Bemease Van Tuyl of Niles, Michi­gan. Their daughter, Patricia, is enrolled in Notre Dame's Master of Arts in Teaching Program, and their son, Michael, is an engineering senior at the University. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 

constant friend and confidant. 
His important knowledge of the broad community that constitutes town and gown, his national contacts with business principles and business leaders have bolstered the contacts of Notre Dame leaders in those essential areas. His home over the years has been a haven and his wife a hostess for many guests of the University when campus hospitality left the touch of a home desirable. Bernard Voll was twice married, twice widowed. Each Mrs. Voll reflected the generous un­derstanding of her husband and shared his limitless loyalty and en­thusiasm for Notre Dame. He in turn gave generously of his talents and resources to their interests as well as to his own. His children and grand­children in themselves have been 
•xvarmlywelcomed contributions to the community. 
Bernard VoU's broad and unending interest in fellow alumni, and his as­sistance in their advancement, is prob­ably epitomized in the presence at the Award dinner of the former member of the Alumni Board whose career with Sibley Machine & Foundry re­sulted in his recent succession to its presidency, John E. Mclntyre '31. 
So the 1966 Rev. Edward Frederick Sorin Award for service to Notre Dame has gone to an obviously quali­fied recipient, one whose years of in­tensive devotion would gladden the heart of the founder. The definition of a Notre Dame man, or of an ideal alumnus of Notre Dame, can take many directions, all of them valid. But if you want a satisfactory short­cut, you can simply say Bernard J. VoU. 
ALUMNI TRAVEL: 
With laurel & Hardw 
The old philosophy of the Church was "pay now, fly later." 
The Alumni Office has long since realized that change has come to this generation. We are a go-go alumni group. World travel is no longer a mark of riches. Postmarks from around the world designate not only our world-wide resident Alumni, but our Alumni travelers who are cross­ing their paths. 
The European Pilgrimage, launched in Detroit and later bolstered by the Alumni Office, was a recognition of this trend. As a service to Alumni we believed — and still do — that the principle was sound. But the physical involvement on the national level was out of proportion to the handful of Alumni served. So this year we sus­pended this service. And, now, the vacuum has suddenly been fiUed by 
VOLL AND CARNEY: A president and president's confidant 
Bernard J. VoU 'IT 
No one quarreled with the selection of Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC last year as the first recipient of the Alumni Association's Rev. Edward 
F. Sorin Award for service to the Uni­versity. They knew the fantastic scope of it. 
News! No one has quarreled with the choice of the second recipient. When the Sorin Award was presented to Bernard J. VoU '17 on Oct. 6 the enthusiasm was as universal as the 1965 inaugural presentation. Alumni President Thomas P. Carney made the presentation at the Morris Inn affair attended by the VoU family, the Alumni Board members and the Uni­versity Administration. And Father Hesburgh eulogized the recipient. In­deed, this presented no problem. 
Bernard VoU was an outstanding student in an outstanding Class, a competent debater in a competitive era. Like most of his Class, he left the campus in April of his senior year to serve in World War I, returning to South Bend with an exceptional war record and wounds received in action. He became a prominent citizen of the St. Joseph Valley as head of the Sib­ley Machine & Foundry Co. and head of a warmly regarded family. 
To many Bernard VoU was a pillar in every phase of civic, cultural and philanthropic life. When a school or a hospital was in need, he was among the first called to its assistance. When the United Fund was established, he was a pioneer in its success. When the business community fell upon the ob­stacle courses of the Depression years and, more recently, the Studebaker evacuation, he — Bernard VoU — was one of the front-line generals who sal­vaged victories from the imminence of economic surrender. 
When in 1947 the Notre Dame Foundation was largely a fire in the heart of Harry Hogan, Bernard Vol! and E. M. Morris were the resident Trustees who saw the vision that Hogan saw, and insured the dramatic progress of Notre Dame by their sup­port. These things were not detached accidents of ordinary understanding. From his graduation, without a lapse, Bernard Voll has been the ideal alumnus. 
The Class of 1917 remembers the always-open Voll home on the occa­sions of their reunions. The St. Joseph Valley Club has its pages of history filled with the interest, enthusiasm and leadership of this outstanding mem­ber. The Alumni Association joined the parade of beneficiaries by electing Bernard Voll first as a director and later as national president of the As­sociation in 1936 when it was reeling from the impact of depression. And more recently, the University has en­joyed the rich association and out­standing contribution of Bernard VoU as a neighboring member of its Asso­ciate Board of Lay Trustees, and an invaluable member of the finance committee of that distinguished com­pany. 
But to those privileged to know the day-to-day operation of Notre Dame, one of the greatest qualifications of Bernard J. Voll for the Edward Sorin Award is his long-time recognition of the burdens which the successors of Notre Dame's first president have borne. From the first Father John Cavanaugh, through the illustrious line of Fathers James Bums, Mat­thew Walsh, Charles O'Donnell, John O'Hara, Hugh O'Donnell, the youn­ger John Cavanaugh, and the present incumbent, Bernard VoU has been a 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 19M DECEMBER 
multiple Notre Dame-and-Alumni-As­
sociation-oriented travel senices. 
We have been asked for the use of 

the Alumni Association mailing list. 
In spite of tlie family identifications 
and the ser\'ice-to-alumni angles, we 
have felt that die policy of not using 
our mailing list for poliUcal or com­
mercial purposes, oUier than directiy 
insututional, has to prevail here, also. 
But we do feel tiiat Alumni are 
interested in travel information which 
combines campus personalities with 
the growing mileage of a mobile pop­
ulation. So we want you to know 
some of the channels of Notre Dame 
travel contacts. 
The major comparable trip to die 

former Pilgrimage is the "1967 Fight­
ing Irish Tour of Europe," co-hosted 
by Ed "Moose" Krause and Robert 
M. Cahill. The trip, leaving New York on April 3, and returning on April 24, will visit Ireland, England, Germany, Austria, Italy, Switzerland and France. Cost, $1089. 
For the Hawaiian bent, former AU-American halfback Johnny Lattner '54 will escort a special two-week group to Hawaii from Chicago on January 21. The excursion, known as the "Johnny Lattner-WNDU Hawai­ian Holiday" includes accommoda­tions at the Princess Kaiulani Hotel, etc. Alumni and friends are invited. For details ^^'rite Johnny Lattner, WNDU, P.O. Box 16, South Bend, Ind. 
There are other Alumni who can also be helpful in individual travel arrangements or for nonalumni groups you may be associated with. John F. Healy '30 and his wife, Ra­mona Hayes Healy, are the heads of the Vanderbilt Tours, 67 E. Mad­ison St., Cliicago, 111. John and Raniona have been in Notre Dame's spoUight lately through their magnifi­cent gift to the College of Business Administration; but, their reputation for de luxe travel tours is of many years' standing. 
The suspended European Pilgrim­age was operated by Ask-Mr.-Foster, the international travel agency now owned by Don Fisher '47, Detroit, Mich. E. J. Hennessy '40 is V-P of Cartan Travel, 108 N. State St, Chi­cago, a world-wde travel sen'ice. Joseph M. BjTne III '47 operates a long-standing travel agency in New­ark, N.J. Richard D. Small '51 is president of Studentaire Travel, 11 
E. Adams St., Chicago and of its division Alumni Holidays, which is the sponsor of the Krause-Caliill 1967 tour. 
The Alumni OfRce is not an expert on tours. But it is reasonably expert 
and Hardy. In addition, the tour covers mucli territory of Alumni in­terest and contact. Shannon, Limerick and Dublin — how are those for openers? Then to London, the site of the signing of the Magna Carta, and four days of the much-highlighted English capital. Berlin is another high-spot tour target. Then Vienna. Then Rome with such institutions as the Coliseum, the Vatican and McAloon all with tlie combination of history, romance and up-to-the-minute and future significance. From Rome, the tour moves to die scenic relaxation of Zurich and Lucerne. The tour is wound up in three days of Paris. Knowing the conductors, we believe that. 
We just conclude with the state­ment tliat if you want to travel, you need never be without friendly Alumni contact. 
ALUMNI: 
Vie for Fatnily Record 
One of the latest families to lay claim to mention in the Alumni "rec­ord book" is the Patrick Fisher Family of Indianapolis. A check of Alumni, Academic and Admissions offices — the past, present and future at Notre Dame — will reveal why. While not only claiming its head as an Alumnus of the University, die Fishers also proudly point to three sons who cur­rently attend Notre Dame and a fourtJi who is a potential freshman for next year. 
Patrick J. Fisher, the father of the family, who graduated with the Class of '35 and is also a Law School Alum­nus of '37, began the family's associa­tion with Notre Dame that has stretclied over two generations. Pat's own brothers. Jack '41 and Paul '43, also attended die University. 
The new generation of Fishers on campus are Pat Jr., Joe and Mike. 
Pat, a resident of Badin, is a senior 
in the General Program and upon 
graduation hopes to enter Navy OC 
School. Joe '69 is in his second year 
of a poUtical science major and is a 
staunch Farley representative in in­
terhall football. Keenan Hall is the 
headquarters for Mike as he pursues 
his freshman year of studies. 
The Fishers still at home have hopes of joining the Notre Dame family in the near future. Youngest son Chris, a senior at Brebeuf Preparatory School, has already applied to Notre Dame for admission in ne.xt year's freshman class. "He shouldn't have any trouble," boasts Mike. "He had the highest college board scores of any of us." 
There are five Fisher daughters and at last report Mrs. Fisher, the former Marguerite Carroll Regan, was grooming them for St. Mar)''s. 
THEOLOGY: 
CoitegiateEeutnenists 
AVith the admission, "we Roman Catholics are just getting around to admitting that we do not have a cor­ner on theological insights," Rev. Al­bert L. Schlitzer CSC, head of the theology department, announced die appointment of a Jewish rabbi and a Greek Orthodox priest to the Uni­versity's theolog)' faculty. 
Rabbi Samuel E. Karff and Rev. Eusebius A. Stephanou have been named visiting professors of theolog}'. In addition to their teaching duties the new facult)' members are con­tributing greatly to intrafaculty dia­logues. Father Schlitzer e.xplains that the centuries-old breaches between Catholics and Jews, and Catholics and Greek Orthodox believers are being pervaded in the post-Vatican II period by a new spirit of sharing. 
Rabbi Karff, %vho teaches a gradu­ate level course in Hebrew literature. 
on Krause and Cahill. It should be 
THE FISHER LINE like having as your tour guides Laurel Chris, Mike, Dad, Joe and Paf 
ID 
AlUMNUS NOVEMBER 196i DECEMBER 
is the spiritual leader of Chicago's 
Sinai Congregation. He came to 
Notre Dame through the joint efforts 
of the Jewish Chautauqua Society and 
the University. Established over 70 
years ago, the Society fosters better 
understanding between Jews and Gen­
tiles by seeking non-Jewish teaching 
posts for Hebrew scholars. 
Father Schlitzer was personally in­
strumental in bringing Father Steph­
anou to the University. Pastor of the 
Holy Trinity Greek Orthodo.K Church 
in Fort ^Vayne, Ind., Father Steph­
anou is now conducting courses in 
Greek Orthodo.K tlieology for students 
on both the graduate and under­
graduate levels. 
The two collegiate ecumenists are 
NTsiting professors in the fullest sense. 
Both Rabbi Karff and Father Steph­
anou commute to Notre Dame from 
their homes, each driving a minimum 
of 170 miles round trip for a class 
period. In spite of the scheduling 
problem created by their traveling 
demands, the two teachers have full 
registration for their classes. 
Regarding this intellectual sharing 
of other faiths as a maturing theo­
logical experience. Father Schlitzer 

has plans to bring men of otlier reli­
gions to the University each year. He 
has already arranged for a professor 
at Princeton University to teach a 
coui-se at Notre Dame on tlie history 
of Protestant wonhip next semester. 

ENGINEERING: 
Passing of a Leader 

Dr. Nonnan R. Gay, dean of the Col­
lege of Engineering, died in his home 
Oct. 31 at the age of 47. Victim of 
accidental carbon monoxide poison­
ing, the dean was stricken while work­
ing on his car in the family garage. 
He is sur\'ived by his widow and four 
daughters. 
Dean Gay, who came to Notre Dame in 1961, was a graduate of the University of Rochester where he ex­celled in academics and atliletics. President of the Students' Association he was also elected to Phi Beta Kappa and Tau Beta Pi. While earning his bachelor's degree he was a varsity track and football star, winning AU-American honors in the latter. Last December he was named to Sports Illustrated's Silver Anniversary Foot­ball AU-American list. 
A specialist in the thermodynamics and heat transfer Dean Gay received his master's from Cornell University where he was a faculty member of the department of thermal engineer­ing from 1942-56. Earning his doc­torate from Purdue University Dean Gay joined the stafif as director of 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER \9&6 DECEMBER 
DEAN GAY RIP 

the Texas Engineering Experiment Station at College Station, Te.x. where he sei-ved until his appointment as dean at Notre Dame. 
On Nov. 30, Notre Dame's presi­dent. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, announced that Dr. Harry C. Saxe, professor of civil engineering, would serve as acting dean of the College of Engineering. Prof. Saxe previously acted as interim dean in 1960-61. 
Joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1959, the professor has ser\'ed as head of the department of civil engineering since that time. A graduate of the City College of New York he earned his master's from the University of Florida and his doctorate from Massa­chusetts Institute of Technolog)'. 
Dr. Saxe taught at the Universit)' of Cincinnati, the Polytechnic Insti­tute of Brooklj-n, Georgia Institute of Technology and the University of Florida prior to coming to Notre Dame. A specialist in structural me­chanics and soil dynamics, he is a former consultant to the US Air Force Special Weapons Center, Albu­querque, N.M. He is married to the former Margaret Bligli. The Saxes have two daughters. 
VIETNAM MAIL 
Because of the increasing num­ber of Alumni now on military duty ill Vietnam, the Alumni Of­fice woidd like to arrange for future issties of the ALUMNUS to be sent via first class mail to Alumni sta­tioned in the ' combat area. We extend an invitation to these men or their families and friends to for­ward their full military addresses to the Notre Dame ALUMNUS, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

HISTORY: 
Eimphmmize Mmdmrmm 
The familiar student complaint that history courses end before they come to World War I has been heeded by a group of Notre Dame profes­sors. Under the leadership of Dr. Samuel Shapiro, associate professor of history, a summer teacher training institute in 20th-century American history has been inaugurated. It vrSl attempt to eliminate the narrow ap­proach and concentration on earlier centuries that have often characterized high school history courses. 
Patterned after the University's successful summer study sessions in mathematics and science, the institute will nonetheless be an initial effort in the historical field. Financial support for the seven-week institute has been approved by the U.S. OflBce of Edu­cation. 
In outlining the goals of the pro­gram Dr. Shapiro noted that the in­stitute will be primarily a "refresher" course for teachers whose American history training is either outdated or inadequate. It will seek to familiarize them with the major new interpreta­tions in the period, ivhile offering an atmosphere free from the daily pres­sures of teaching and conducive to thought and discussion. In an effort to decrease reliance solely on text­books, which are often limited in point of view and outdated, the in­stitute will introduce the teachers to the effective classroom use of films, slides, records, tapes and television. 
A full-time teaching force of four Notre Dame historians will staff the institute. In addition to Dr. Shapiro the faculty \n\\ include Dr. Vincent De Santis, a specialist in American political history; Dr. James W. Silver, a Negro history scholar and author of the book Mississippi: The Closed So­ciety; and Dr. Philip Gleason, who is a specialist in the social history of immigrant and ethnic groups. 
Dr. Shapiro will give a lecture course on "Twentieth Century Amer­ica" while his colleagues %vill lead seminars on "American Politics Since 1896"; "The South and the Negro Since 1900"; and "Immigration and Ethnic Groups in Twentieth Century America." 
The institute, which is scheduled for June 15 through August 4, will be open to teachers from all over the country. Entrance requirements, how­ever, will limit applicants to those who have a bachelor's degree, at least four undergraduate courses in history, three years' teaching experience on the secondary level, and are presently teaching a course in American hktory. 
ALUMNI BOARD: 
Vote doses Jan. 1 
Notre Dame's Alumni, who in January will be lead by a new Association president, uill cast their ballots this month to elect four new members to the national Alumni Boar d of Directors. 
The eight nominees from whom the 40.000-man Alumni group will make their selection are: Edward G. Cantwell '24 from Columbus, Ohio; John J. Reidy '27 from Cleveland; Leonard H. Skoglund Jr. '38 from LaGrange Park, 111.; Vincent J. Duncan "44 from Englewood, Colo.; Joseph M. Haggar Jr. '45 from Dallas; Charles A. La Fratta '47 from Rich­mond, Va.; Robert V. ^VeIch '50 from Indianapolis; and Edward B. Fitz­patrick Jr. '54 from New York City. 
Mailed to all Alunmi in early December, the ballots are to be re­turned to the Alumni Office before January 1, 1967. 
At the same January 19-21 meeting during which the four new board members will be welcomed, A. F. "Bud" Dudley Jr. '43 will assume the duties of board president. Dudley, president of football's Liberty Bowl, becomes the 55th alumnus to head the University's alumni governing body for the traditional one-year term. He succeeds Dr. Thomas P. Carney '37 who will also assume a one-year term as honorary president. 
The president-elect, a former mem­ber of the Universit)''s football and baseball squads and president of his graduating class, resides in Wjome­wood. Pa. with his wife and six children. In 1965, he \\Tote an article entitled "The Lost Image" that earned him the George Washington Honor Medal from Freedoms Founda­tion at Valley Forge and that later was made part of the US Congres­sional Record. 
Board members who are completing their three-year tenns on the Board in January are W. Lancaster Smith '50 from Dallas; Bertrand D. Coughlin MD '26 from St. Louis; William V. Cuddy '52 from \Vhite Plains, N.Y.; and Herbert M. Sampson '50 from Omaha. 
The Board, which holds three meetings annually, guides the pro­grams of the Alumni Association through a number of committees: the executive, club, class, public relations and development, religion and citizen­ship, admissions, athletic, academic, job counseling and placement, and continuing education. 
Under these regular committees, and under special committees ap­pointed by the president of tlie Associ­ation, the Board considers the many and expanding problems of the Associ­ation such as magazines, reunions. Communion Sunday, UND Night, Club Presidents Manual, Club Sec­retaries Manual, Continuing Educa­tion, etc. 
Skoglund '33 Duncan '44 Haggar '45 
RESOLVE DISPUTE OVER DArLEY BEQUEST 
After several months of suspense the University in November announced that a settlement has been reached regarding the contested will of Miss Florence Dailey. The will of the former Rochester, N.Y. secretary, which granted over $8 million to Notre Dame and Georgetown University, originally had been declared invalid by Miss Daile/s survi\ang relatives. The Universit)''s executive \nce-president, Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, in acknowl­edging that an agreement had been reached between tlie two universities and the Dailey relatives, noted that the terms of the settlement will not be made public for "the time being." He did add, however, that Notre Dame will receive a multimillion-dollar benefit w»hich, according to tlie terms of the will, is to be incorporated into the Universit)''s endowment and the income used for student scholarships. 
CHAIRMANSHIPS ANNOUNCED The departments of education and chemistry have announced a change of command. Dr. James ACchael Lee, acting head of the department of education since June 1, has been confirmed as head of the department. Dr. Lee, who received his doctorate in education from Columbia, came to Notre Dame in 1962. A specialist in secondary education and guidance he holds tlie rank of associate professor of education. Dr. John L. Magee, 
La Fratta Welch "50 Rtzpotriclc '54 
'Topside Briefs 
professor of chemistry and associate director of the Radi­ation Research Lab, will assume headship of the depart­ment of chemistry Jan. 1. He succeeds Dr. Ernest Eliel whose term as department head cvpires at the end of the calendar year. Dr. Magee, a specialist in physical chem­istr>' and a faculty member since 1948, will ser\-e for a three and a half year period. 
EXPAND SCIENCE PACIUTIES 
What now are merely two gaping holes on the campus 
promises to be the sites of two of the Universitj-'s most 
advanced facilities. One of the excavations has been 
made for the new home of the LOBUND laboratories 
on the mall just south of the Memorial Libran-. The 
new 30,000 square foot, $1,120,000 building for the 
first time wall bring together all the facilities for geim­
free research ranging from cancer to radiation effects 
to dental hygiene to germfree surger>'. Scheduled for 
completion by next October the building is tlie first unit 
of a proposed Life Science Center to be constnacted 
on the mall. The second construction project, i-ising 
from a foundation dug behind Nieuwland Science Hall, 
IS the Tandem Van de Graaff Accelerator annex. The 15 
milhon electron volt accelerator, coupled witli tlie 
present facilities, promises to be one of the most versatile 
combinations for low-energy nuclear physics research. 
Together Notre Dame's accelerators will be capable of 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER ^^66 DECEMBER 

accelerating protons, electrons, helium atoms and per­haps even oxygen and nitrogen ions for intensive nuclear research. Current plans call for the 23,000 square feet of space to be available by April. 
SENIORS SELECT PATRIOT 
With their national ballot a fact of the past, seniors turned their elective powers to the campus and the se­lection of the "Patriot of the Year." Although the election was held Nov. 19, the results traditionally are not revealed until formal acceptance is received from the nominee. This year the Washington Day Exercises Committee nominated: Louis Armstrong, musician and good-will ambassador; Leonard Bernstein, conductor and composer; William Fulbright, US Senator and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee; John Kenneth Galbraith, professor of economics at Har­vard and former ambassador to India; Arthur Gold­berg, ambassador to the UN and former Supreme Court Justice; Chet Huntley and David Brinkley, radio-TV news commentators; Martin Luther King, civil-rights leader; Carl Sandburg, Lincoln historian and poet; Earl Warren, Chief Justice, US Supreme Court; Gen. Wil­liam Westmoreland, head of US Forces ia Vietnam. 
DEBUT ND-SMC THEATRICAL SEASON 
On the bill for the debut of the newly merged Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre was Graham Greene's "The Potting Shed." Staged in Washington Hall, the play, by one of England's most prominent authors, was under the direction of Rev. Arthur Harvey CSC. For their initial appearance as a co-ed group the dramatists chose the psychological detective storj' which portrays the search for a meaning behind the protagonist's inability to love. Terry Francke and Judy Muench were cast, respectively, as the man who is a despairing mystery to himself and as the mother -whose devotion to her hus­band forces rejection of her son. Under the plan for alternating locations the season's second dramatic effort was staged in early December at SMC's O'Laughlin Auditorium. Shakespeare's last play, "The Tempest," was a contrast in both tone and period from tiie the­atre's premier production. The pastoral romance is built around the encounter of the inhabitants of a mys­terious island with people from the so-called ci\-ilized world. Fred W. Syburg, associate professor in the com­bined theatre program, directed the play which starred Terry Francke as the wise Prospero, Marcella Lynyak as Miranda, and Tim Donovan as the monster, Caliban. 
POST-COMMENCEMENT SURVEY 
Hot on the heels of the "Alumni Profile" comes a survey report on the activities of the youngest Alumni, the Class of '66. Recorded by the College of Arts and Let­ters from preferences indicated in the Class directory, the tabulation reveals that 61 per cent of the Class plans on continuing its education in graduate or professional school. Graduate schools in general have attracted just over 300 students with law schools dra\\'ing an addi­tional 171 and future medics comprising the next largest grouping with 84. The armed services claimed 189 of the grads. Nineteen of the Class have opted to enter the seminary or pursue graduate theological studies. The Peace Corps outranked the business world mth 16 graduates indicating they intended to enter the govern­ment service while only 15 have enrolled in graduate schools of business. The Class of '66 can look forward to seven dentists and one optometrist, but only one rep­resentative in the musical and/or dramatic arts. In­dicative of our age of specialization were the two grad­uates who plan to attend nuclear power school. Also significant —of tiie 1274 in the Class of '66, 105 will be employed. 
SNEAK PREVIEW 

Returning to the campus to "recharge his batteries," prize-winning novelist Edwin O'Connor '39 made elec­trifjing news himself. The former student of Prof. Frank O'Malley, to whom the novel "The Edge of Sadness" is dedicated, regularly schedules a visit to the professor's classes whenever he is on campus. Meeting with Prof. O'Malley's class on Oct. 5, O'Connor re­vealed that he had been accompanied by "The Man from Brazil," his latest play on which he desired the students' reaction. Although the Pulitzer Prize winner's visit received no public announcement the campus grapevine spread the word and over 300 students jammed the law auditorium to provide an enthusiastic reception for the preview reading. The author also submitted to students' queries on a host of authors and offered insights on his personal %vriting habits. Admit­ting tiiat he limits his writing time to a few hours a day, O'Connor cautioned the students about patterning their o^^•n habits after him. The amount of time spent at work depends on the person, he said. 
URGE LARGER NEGRO ENROLLMENT 
Commitment to what has been termed the greatest moral problem of our times has led a group of students to action through the Committee on Negro Enrollment. Formed in 1964 CON^ seeks a means of lessening the racial problem through education. Headed by students Steve ^Veeg and Jim Carmody last year CONE con­tacted over 1500 Negro students in an effort to interest and to assist them in applying for admission to Notre Dame. Of the 300 students who initially replied, 65 applied for admission and of those accepted, 12 are now enrolled at the University. This year, realizing the lim­itations imposed by their student status, CONE mem­bers have solicited membership among the faculty and administration. Although their primary work vnll be carried on in the contacting of qualified students, the committee hopes to establish a program to reach cul­turally deprived students who are potentially college material. Student Weeg advises that anyone \vishing furdier information may contact the committee at CONE, P.O. Box 7, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
DEMISE OF ONE, BIRTH OF ANOTHER With phoenix-like quaUties the fortunes of the campus 
fourth-estaters have died and risen in a blaze of glory. On October 27 the student newspaper, the Voice, heralded its own demise with appropriate black mles and glaring headline: "The Voice Is Dead." In an 
editorial message editor Stephen Feldhaus laid the blame for the paper's death on lack of continuity due to: "no means of reprarting the 'News When It's News,' lack of support of a permanent body at the University, such as a journalism school, and the recurrent problem of financing." The obituary, however, ended with a faint glimmer of hope: "There's room for a newspaper at Notre Dame, but not the Voice under the present cir­cumstances." Within a week circumstances seemed to have undergone a radical change and with "A Promise, A Purpose, A Newspaper Is Bom." Under the joint editorship of Feldhaus and Robert Anson, the Observer, an eight-page biweekly, has dedicated itself to "ob­serve^ remark, notice, comment and adhere." 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 
ff nobody notices 
by RICHARD T. COLGAN 
If life were given to inanimate objects that they might speak, there is one on Notre Dame's campus that could tell a rare and interesting story. It might be related some­thing like this ... 
Nobody notices me much anymore. For a number of decades now, I've gone unnoticed. I'm tucked away from the curious eyes of passers-by, shrouded by the deep, thick shadows cast by Brownson Hail—now the Main Build­ing. I'm not even observed by the undergraduate who, late for a class, nearly stumbles over me in his hasty de­tour across the lawn from the main walkway. If one does pay me the compliment of a momentary glance, he probably departs speculating on how that chunk of rusted metal missed the scrap heap. On this otherwise neat, well-kept and attractive campus, this has been my life — this has been my fate. 
But it wasn't always this way. There was a time when I wasn't paint splattered and rusted, when tourists on pho­tographic pilgrimages made certain to include me on their itinerary, and when custodians religiously polished my bronzed exterior. But buffeted by over 60 Midwestern winters, scorching summers, rains and hail, this has all changed. Nobody notices me anymore. Quite frankly, I'm still at a loss to understand why Mr. Colgan noticed me, or even paid any attention. After all, so few do these days. 
But it isn't my story I want to tell. I'm merely an insignificant rusted metal marker lying forgotten in one corner of a vast campus boasting many more tall and im­pressive symbols of achievement and glory. And if you did happen to sight me and paused long enough to read the faint, timeworn, weathered inscription on my granite base, you'd still have to dig deep into University archives to gain any meaningful information. For my story goes back before the turn of the present century, a time before many of you were born, and when Notre Dame, still a very young institution, was confused and unnerved by a war scare. I'm all that's left of that era, just a rusted marker to a young Notre Dame man who tragically lost his life in a foreign country. I commemorate the memory of this undergraduate, a youth who academically and athletically never rose above mediocrity: as a matter of fact, he was expelled from the University before he graduated. Vet, of all the great names among Notre Dame men, his is the only one among Notre Dame undergraduates to be com­memorated with a monument. Still, I doubt if anyone 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 196(5 DECEMBER 

alive today remembers him, his story, or the influential 
part he played in Notre Dame history and Midwesterri 
history. 

John Henry Shiilington or "Shiliy" as he was dubbe'd 
by his classmates, was a likable boy from Chicago. He 
spent only three years, 1894 to 1897, at Notre Dame be­
fore he was expelled for an infraction of the college regu­
lations. While here, he played baseball. How good a 
ballplayer he was, nobody seems to know or to remember. 
He did travel with the Notre Dame baseball team, so at 
the least it might be said that he was probably a pretty 
fair utility man. It was in the spring of '97 during one of 
these travels that the incidents which ultimately led up to 
his expulsion — and ironically his glory — occurred. 
One afternoon, following a game in Chicago, Shiliy 
left the ball park by himself. Where he went or what he 
did, nobody knows. When the entire team mustered that 
evening at the Chicago and South Shore train station 
for the trip back to the campus, Shiliy was still absent. It 
wasn't until sometime after the team arrived in South 
Bend that Shiliy appeared only to learn that he had beert 
expelled for his absence. 

He was shattered by the news. It distressed him to 
leave the school he loved and the friends he had made. 
It distressed many of Shilly's friends, too, for he had been 
a good classmate and devoted friend. Nobody liked the 
idea of his expulsion, but everyone, including Shiliy, un­
derstood the need for and enforcement of the school 
regulations. 

Brokenhearted, Shiliy departed for home and shortly afterwards enlisted in the United States Navy. He wanted to forget his troubles, make new friends, find a new life and in doing so perhaps regain something of that which he had lost when forced to leave Notre Dame — a goal and purpose in life. He had this when at Notre Dame. He had loved Notre Dame. Though several thousand miles away from her now, he still retained his affection for his school. This fact was more than evident as his frequent letters testified: 
I still remember Notre Dame. I picture her dailyj 
And in my reminiscences of her I often brush away 
a tear. 

I suppose Shiliy is forgotten by the folks back at the old college. I don't blame them. But though I'm forgotten, I won't. I can't. 1 shall always re­member Notre Dame and hold her near and deaf to my heart... always. 
Unknown to young Shiilington at the time, "always" was not to be for too long. Events leading up to a war were taking shape in the world. It erupted into the Spanish-American War. Of all the wars none had been so unpopular with the citizenry of the United States and in particular with the Notre Dame faculty and student body. They were confused and at a loss to understand the reasons for the actions of Catholic Spain. It was re­ported that the student body of no other college or uni­versity in America was aroused to the degree to which the predominantly Roman Catholic student body at Notre Dame had been. 
Then, on the cold blustery morning of February 15, 1898, the nation's newspapers carried the shocking black headline: BAHLESHIP MAINE SUNK IN HAVANA 
AlUMNUS NOVEMBER ^966 DECEMBER 

HARBOR — USS MAINE BLOWN UP — REMEMBER 
THE MAINE On the campus of Notre Dame the news 
struck the faculty and student body with emotion and 
impact. For, you see, Shiliy had been a crew member of 
the USS Maine. 

For the first few days, the students remained stunned 
by the shocking episode. Then, slowly, a smoldering re­
sentment against the nation of Spain arose. Shilly's class­
mates at Brownson Hall became aroused, for there was 
something deeply personal about his death and Spain, 
they felt, had been responsible for it. A general meeting 
was held in the school gymnasium. One of the student 
group organizers and leaders, Austin O'Malley, mounted a 
rostrum and urged Shilly's classmates to "get into the 
battle that caused Shilly's death. Let's fight," he shouted, 
declaring he was to be the first to volunteer for an Irish 
brigade to be formed on the campus. Incited and aroused 
to fever pitch, the enraged, crying, cheering men of Notre 
Dame charged out of the gymnasium shouting at the tops 
of their voices, "Down with Spain. Let's fight. Remember 
the Maine. And remember Shiliy." The brigade that 
formed drilled and marched each day and, eventually, 
sent many into the military where they saw action. 
Some time after, a shell from one of the guns of the 
battleship Maine was resurrected from the waters of Ha­
vana harbor. It was transported to Hoosierland, and in a 
ceremony commemorating the ultimate sacrifice of young 
Shiilington, placed beside the hall where as an undergrad­
uate, Shiliy had eaten, slept and studied. And to this day 
it remains there, an obscure monument and tribute to a 
popular youth who had never been so popular in life as he 
had been after death. 
Yes, I'm this youth's marker, a gun shell atop a small 
stone block fronted with a metal plate and brief inscrip­
tion. I'm forgotten now just like the youth 1 commemo­
rate. But I'd like so much to be remembered, if only for 
a moment now and then. Not for my rusted self, but for 
Shiliy and all the Shillys at Notre Dame who gave their 
lives in other wars. You might say 1 symbolize their lives 
and commemorate their deaths. Perhaps this is why Mr. 
Colgan is writing my story. Perhaps too often, too many 
of the living forget the o' so many who gave their lives 
in order that we might go on living. 
So if you're ever on the campus, pause a moment — that is if you can locate me — and read my inscription and remember. Remember Shiliy. Remember World War ! and II. Remember the Korean War. Perceive the crisis the world faces today. Then say a prayer, a prayer for Shiliy, for all the Shillys though their names may have been Starke, Merryweather, Davis or Chevigny. For this is the legion that gave their utmost in order that we might live. Forget me, and it's likely you've forgotten them. Nobody notices me much anymore.... 
ABOUT THE AUTHOR: Richard Colgan 
graduated from Notre Dame in 1937 with a 
BA in speech and English. A year later he was 
awarded an MA in counseling and guidance 
from the University. And now — though a 
resident of Warwick, R.I., and assistant di­. ^—^^^, rector of pupil personnel services in charge of Im^^rmm guidance in Cambridge, Mass. — Dick is com-wLclr'.:M^ pleting his dissertation for a PhD from South-em Illinois Univeisity. Married and with a family, Dick has had numerous articles published in such magazines as the Co­lumbia National Catholic Magazine, St. Anthonys Messenger, Education, The Apostle Magazine, Peabody Journal of Educa­tion and The School Counselor. 
ALUMNI IN THE NEWS 
Classes 
The Notre Dame Class of 1928, well known to Alumni for its regular group activities, has somehow developed still another marked trait about its constituency'. The latest and radier exclusive characteristic is that it now lists four federal judges within its ranks. The creation of its own elite judicial branch, if not unique to other schools, is surely a first among Notre Dame classes. 
The latest to join the distinguished group is Judge Joseph P. Kinneary, appointed this fall as US District Judge for Southern Ohio. The Cin­cinnati-Dayton-Columbus area is one of 87 districts in the Federal Judicial System. The three other members of the Class' judicial quartet are Robert Grant, chief judge of the Northern Indiana District Court in South Bend; Judge Geoige Beamer of the Northern Indiana District Court in Hammond; and Judge William B. Jones of the US District Court in the District of Columbia. 
Prior to his recent appointment, the judge served as the United States attorney for the same Ohio district to which he was appointed by Pres­ident Kennedy in May, 1961 and reappointed by President Johnson in May, 1965. 
Judge Kinneary, now enjoying the first judgeship of his career, received his law degree from the University of Cincinnati after which he engaged in the general practice of law in Cin­cinnati and Columbus, specializing in trial work. His Honor married Bymece Rogers Lape in 1950, "thus upholding the Irish tradition of late marriages." He further adds, "In lawyer's language, there has been no issue of this marriage; but, as a Sacarious grandfather* I proudly claim three lovely grandchildren." European travel—^whenever possible —and reading political history every evening "in the softest chair available" constitute his favorite out-of-court activities. 
BEFORE THE PRAaiCE BECAME POPULAR 
(Editor's Note: Mort Goodman '30 died
he would be embarrassed at this 
unexpectedly August 30. He was well
public expression of my admiration 
known to Notre Dame Alumni both for his active participation in ike ND Clubfor him, and my thanks to him. oj Los Angeles and for his work while ahope he is pleased. member of the Alumni National Board of Tanuah nislimato besh shalom. Directors. Dr. Thomas P. Carney '37, presi­
May his soul rest in peace. 

dent of the Alumni Association, reflected the sentiments of many Alumni in the fol­A MERGER OF CHILDLIKE PROPORTIONS 
lowing letter sent to Mart's parents.) 
Mort Goodman ^vas a Jew. Many people are. Mort Goodman was a Jew who also was a member of the Board of Directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
I first met Mort at the initial meet­ing following my election to the Alumni Board. He was already a one-year veteran. For two years I had the opportunity of being exposed to Mort, of being impressed by his un­compromising honest)' and by his total dedication to Notre Dame. 
I remember the reception before dinner the first time that Ara Par­seghian met with the Board. How could we avoid talking about re­cruiting? Ara mentioned one likely prospect with whom he was having difficulty. The boy liked Notre Dame. However, his parents, not Catholic, were apprehensive about their son attending a Catholic school. Mort volunteered to give testimony that it was possible to avoid conversion even after four years' exposure to Notre Dame. It got a big laugh. But Mort went home and wrote a beautiful letter to the boy's parents, not promoting the value of Notre Dame football, but rather extolling the virtues of Notre Dame as a place in which their son could be given a total education. 
I don't know how it got started, but one day before a Board luncheon, instead of Grace before the meal Mort offered a prayer in Hebrew. For the remainder of his term on the Board the prayer in Hebrew was an in­separable part of all of our group meals. 
Mort was embarrassed and pleased and, yet, sometimes irked when any­one indicated he might be something unusual. He was a living example of ecumenism before the word became familiar or the practice became popu­lar. He was a Notre Dame man in every sense ol the word. I am sure 
Happiness is a big, big family. Bob Lally '50 suspected this all the while he was raising his 11 children. But now he knows it for a fact since in the last year his household has en­larged to 15 children. 
The stor)' behind the growing Lally family, however, hasn't been entirely happy. About 15 months ago, Bob's wife passed away and suddenly he became father and mother for 11 little Lallys. Meanwhile another family in the big Ohio community lost the head of its household and Nancy Peirolo found herself assuming the roles of both parents to her two boys and two girls. 
Mutual friends of the two families thought it might be well if Bob and Nancy became acquainted. Less than a year after their first meeting there was a wedding in the Peirolo and Lally families. 
A recent early evening call to the Lally residence revealed some of the adjustments they've had to make since the May 14 merger. 
"To me," Bob answered, "the big­gest problem is diffusing all the noise 15 children can make at one time in this house. But this is really not sig­nificant. The cooperation of the chil­dren has been fantastic. And as for Nancy, I can only say that she has been a saint." 
Asked whether he enlisted a first sergeant to assemble the family for meals. Bob noted, "a 10-inch in di­ameter Chinese gong is all we've needed. And from there on one of the oldest children takes over. ^Ve 
Kinneary'28 Goodman '30 Blantz '55 Goldcamp '63 
and the Lallys '50 
all eat together in sort of a cafeteria 
style around our nine-foot dining 
room table with the oldest children 
given the responsibility of serving the 
meal." 
The children in the newly con­stituted Lally family range in age from 16 years to 16 months, divided into eight boys and seven girls, and including a set of twins. The chil­dren are: Chuck, 16; Mary, 14; Mike, 12; Kevin, 11; twins Kathleen and Colleen, 10; Jim, 9; Dennis, 8; Sheila, 7; Tom, 6; Terri, 6; Caroline, 5; Brian, 4; Tim, 3; and Meg, 1. 
When asked if any more little Lallys were expected. Bob replied, "I don't think so. My problem at the moment is with pets — last week someone slipped a cat in on us." 
SLEIGHTER THAN THE EYE 
It wasn't too long ago that Rev. James Blantz CSC '55 left the United States for missionary work in Uganda, East Africa. There, with the band of Holy Cross priests and brothers. Father Jim set about spreading the word of God—teaching the natives to embrace the love of Christianity and to reject pagan hoaxes. Some­where along the line, though, he dis­covered that just a touch of his homespun sorcery worked magic in carrying out his mission. 
On assignment as mission photog­rapher Father Jim "found that the policemen in these countries were more apt to be helpful if I could win their friendship first. I knew a few magic tricks—stuff we all learned as kids—and found that the people in these countries were fascinated with such nonsense. I could always get a crowd for the movies just by working with a coin or a piece of string." 
This new approach for Father Jim, a sort of ecumenism by magic, was so successful that when he was given a new assignment as chaplain at Gibault School for Boys in Terre Haute he enlarged and improved his "pitch." One thing led to another and soon Father Blantz not only be­came a member of the International Brotherhood of Magicians but presi­dent of the Kokomo Ring and chaplain of the Hammond (Ind.) Ring. 
His specialty is the "stand up" show, i.e., stage work, but he does not include the big illusions such as saw­ing a body in half. "I prefer what is called close-up magic, such as at a card table with spectators seated right next to me. This is primarily card work, of course. Few magicians do this type as it has little commercial value. However, I find it a real challenge, and have specialized in it." 
Father Jim has had no little suc­cess with his sleight of hand. Five years after his initiation to the art of legerdemain he became Close-Up Champion of Texas in 1965, the Kokomo Magician of the Year in 1966 and the Senior Award AVinner at Columbus, Ohio in the same year. 
Father Jim performs his trickery before various church groups, civic organizations, magi c conventions, private parties and numerous benefit shows for crippled children and war veterans, as well as for hospitalized parishioners. His self-styled art has achieved various effects among his audiences. As he tells it, there was a time he was entertaining a woman parishioner at the hospital \vith card tricks, primarily poker deals. Her roommate, not a Catholic, was most interested in the hands Father was dealing himself. "Father," she finally said, "when you cheat like that, don't you have to tell it in confession?" Father Jim replied, "Yes, but I don't go to confession to the priests I play poker with!" 
"Now," explains the magician, "the poor dear thinks she imderstands the Church." 
A LEGAL SWEEP 
If the present is any indication of the future, it looks bright indeed for Joseph H. Goldcamp III '63. After earning an MBA degree from Xavier University in 1965 he entered the Salmon P. Chase College School of Law. Within a year he carried off the school's top freshman honor and was named recipient of awards granted from within his field and his community. The faculty committee on awards from the Law School awarded him its annual freshman citation on the basis of his maintaining the highest scholastic average during the academic year. Coincident with this was an outstanding freshman commendation from the Ohio Bar Association Foundation accompanied by a $100 prize. The Joint Publishers of the Annotated Reports System named him the recipient of their American Jurisprudence Prize for excellence in contracts. In addition, Joseph was recipient of an award from the Cincinnati Estate Planning Council. And, finally, in recognition of his academic and juridical honors, the Cincinnati Enquirer nominated him "Young Adult of the Week." For Mr. Goldcamp, it was, indeed, a very good year. 
* "* * * 

I:
_ J4 I^ 
ENGAGEMENTS 
Miss Patricia Lee Danielson and DIMTTRI L­GLOSS MA '36. Miss Mary Nell Henley and JOHN F. ifUR-R.W '56. Miss Odessa Madeline dc Castro and WLLIASI POWERS '58. Miss Eileen O'Donncll and DOXALD B. REILLY '58. Miss Mary Esther Hotchkiss and EUGENE P.A.TRICK DOLAX '60. Miss Mary Jane Taylor and P.iTRICK R. GUEXTERT '61. Miss Rachel Flynn and ROBERT L. HAM­ILTON' JR. '62. Miss B.MIBARA MONIC\ MAY (^t\T '66) and G.ARY J. HORDE.MA\X '62. Miss Barbara Jean Joyce and CH.-\RLES K. DRISCOLL '63. Miss SheiU Deirdrc Granito and DON.ALD DU.VPHY JR. '6t. Miss Frances Murphy and JOHX T. FLECK­EXSTEIX '6+. Miss Elizabeth E. Knecht and JAMES J. NORRIS JR. '6*. Miss Gail Judson Willctt and RAYMO.VD E. BEJ.\RASO '63. Miss L>Tm Gallagher and JOSEPH J. TIMMES Jr. '65. Miss Elaine Diana Roccapriorc and P.\UL D.A­VID TSCHETTER '63. Miss Marcia Lj-nn Morrison and JOSEPH R. Y.ADOUGA '63. Miss Carol Flaherty and RICH.ARD AN-GELOTTl '66. Miss Mary Lizctte TuUcy and EDWARD DEN­XIS CROXI.\ '66. Miss Diane Lj-nn Dietrich and MICH.^L W. COLLINS '67. 
MARRIAGES 
Miss Barbara .Anne Keating and ALFRED J. PERR1.XE JR. '41, Forest Hills, N.Y., Aug. 28. Miss Patricia Frances Ka\-anagh and JOSEPH 
A McCUE '58, New York, Aug. 7. Miss Saughon .Anderson and JOHX JfcGfX-LEY '38, Xew York, Sept. 17. Miss Rita Joy Sidcritz and RICHARD JOHX CIESIELSKI '60, Xotre Dame, Aug. 20. Miss Patricia Ann Canfield and GERARD J. WELLING '60, South Bend, Sept. 17. Miss Janie Quinn and THOMAS KARATY '61, Xew York, Sept. 24. Miss Judith Ann Jcffcrs and CH.ARLES FRAX­CIS QUIX'N n i '61, South Bend, Sept. 10. Miss Barbara Jane Gilbert and THOJLAS J. HULL '62, Notre Dame, Sept. ID. MUs Marlys Adams and WILLIAM J. PEDTKE '62, Ralston, Neb., -Aug. 13. 
Miss Sharon Anne Moulder and JOHX LAW­RENCE F1NNER.AN '63, South Bend, Aug. 20. Miss Judith Ann Lochridgc and TIMOTHY P. HAIDI.XGER '63, Aug. 28, San Gabriel, CaliL Miss Maria Ann Rozow and FRED MICHAEL 
MORELLI JR. '63, Notre Dame, Sept. 3. Miss Pamela McCullough and JOHN M. ZUSI '63, Huntington, L.I., Sept. 10. Miss Kathleen Mary Boyle and ERNEST E. ARRAS JR. '64, Notre Dame, Sept. 17. Jliss Catherine Jane Chester and THOifAS J. DIXGELL '64, Detroit, Sept. 9. Miss Jacquie Van LicfTeringc and RICH.ARD A. MARCHETTI '6t, South Bend, Sept. 10. 
Miss DOROTHY ANNE GARRITY MA '56 and KEVI.V SfATHERS RA.VAGHA.X MA '64, South Bend, Aug. 6. 
Miss Patricia Ann Barcza and ERNEST JOHN SCH.ARPF JR. '6t, Notre Dame, .Aug. 20. 

Miss Karen Jane Ross and ROBERT L. TAN­ZOL.A JR. '64, North Bergen, N.J., Aug. 13. Miss Mary Elizabeth Sullivan and H. JOSEPH 
WE.AVER '64, Weedsport, X.Y., .Aug. 13. 
Miss Maureen Ann Hillary and FRAXCIS XnCHAEL ZIRILLE '64, Grand Rapids, Mich., Aug. 13. 
Miss Cecilia C. Sorrentino and JOSEPH AN­THOX'Y BUCOLO '65, Oak Park, III., Aug. 27. Miss Marcia Gumz and ROBERT H. DEVLIN 
JR. '65, Xorth Judson, Ind., Sept. 3. Miss Karen Coletti and PATRICK J. KELLEY '65, Aug. 20. Miss Susan O'Xeil and KEVIX COXOR LYNCH '65, Harrison, N.Y., Sept. 17. 
Miss Donna M. Carlino and EDWARD AL­FRED McCOYD '65, Long Beach, L.L, N.Y., Sept. 10. 
Miss Renec Marie Dragoun and STEPHEN C STUMPFL '65, Notre Dame, Aug. 20. Miss Mary Louise Benson and JOHN CHARLES ZINK '65, Notre Dame, Aug. 27. 
Miss Gwcndol>-n J. Kluge and EDWARD M. CIKANEK MS '66, South Bend, Aug. 27. 
Miss Diann Ellen McMahon and ANDREW AXTHON'Y DINCOLO '66, Notre Dame, Aug. 20. Miss Jean Marie MatschulUt and THOMAS 
J. DOTY '66, Notre Dame, Sept. 17. Miss Marlenc Peter and ROX.ALD F. HOCH 
'66, O'.VeiU, Xeb., Oct. 15. Miss Judith Feriic and ALAN M. LOBOY '66. Miss Patricia Dainclli and FRANCIS AN­
THONY ROZUM '66, Notre Dame, Sept. 3. Miss Maril>-n Jane Kozmer and JOSEPH RIV­ERS SO.NLMERS '66, Notre Dame, Aug. 7. Miss Catherine Niemier and THOMAS J. SZ.AJKO '66, South Bend, Aug. 6. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES J. XOL.AN '37, a son, James Brennus, July 23. Mr. and Mrs. PHILIP FACCENTJA '31, a son, Philip Jr., Sept. 30. Mr. and -Mrs. JOHN BIERBUSSE '54, a SOD, Paul Matthew, Sept. 24. Mr. and Mrs. FRANK R.AITH '54, a son, Gregory Patrick, Aug. 11. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN BOLGER '57, a daughter. Michelle Ellen, Aug. 17. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT WEINER '57, a son, John Joseph, Oct. 16. Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD LYO.XS '58, a son, John Edward, Sept. 13. Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL O'BRIEN '58, a son, Michael Kelly, Oct. 9. Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE P. O'NEIL '53, a daughter, Kara Jcanine, Sept. 8. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT BROEMMEL'59, a son, Jeffrey Darid, Aug. 9. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES COOXEY '59, a son, Daniel Joseph, Oct. 12. ifr. and Mrs. JAMES M. KEEGAN '59, a daughter, Mary Kathr^Ti, Aug. 30. Mr. and Mrs. JACOB DVORAK '60, a daugh­ter, Miriam Sophia, Oct. 27. Dr. and Mrs. MICHAEL SEHY '61, a son, Michael, Aug. 20. Mr. and Mrs. TIMOTHY TAYLOR '62, a son, Mark Timothy, Aug. 12. ifr. and Mrs. ED FILLEMVORTH '63L, a son, John Edward, September. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES E. KELLEY '63, a daughter, Jean Margaret, July 5. Mr. and Mrs. JUAX E. CINTRON '64, a daughter, Oct. 23. Mr. and Mrs. XICK ETTEN '64, a daughter, Susan .Ann, Aug. 8. Mr. and Jfn. ROBERT LEE '&f, a son, An­thony, Sept. 22. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH DiGREGORIO '65, a son, Joseph Christopher, July 3. Mr. and Mrs. DOXALD HOG.AN '65, a daugh­ter, Judith, Oct. 23. Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL liLACKIN '65, a son, Christopher Campbell, June 27. 
SYMPATHY 

THONLAS P. CARNEY '37 on the death of his father, August. Rev. EDMUN'D P. JOYCE CSC '37 on the death of his father, Sept. 3. FREDERICK S. BECKMAN '42, on ti e death of his wife, August. JAMES E. PADESKY '47 on the death of his father, Oct. 20. VERNE F. KELLEY JR. '50 on the death of his father, Sept. 19. DAVID G. BUDINGER '52 on the death of his father, Aug, 27. EDWARD B. FITZPATRICK JR. '54 on the death of his mother, Oct. 21. Bro. ROBERT LAWRE.VCE CSC '58 on the death of his father, June 29. 
ROBERT J. '60 and RICHARD A. '63 JUCK­XIESS, on the death of their father, September. JOHX A. DcFALCO '62 on the death of his 
father, October, JAMES BERNHART '54 on the death of his father, Sept. 19. 
DEATHS 

JOHN D. CARMODY, here in 1900, Seattle, Wash., Sept. 26. A prominent attorney he had scn.'cd as a state deputy, been a partner in a law firm, director and later VP of Farmers Ins. Ao­tivc in legal and civic organizations he was also the oldest living grand knight in the K of C. Surviwng are his wdou- and son. 
WLLIM£ E. PETRITZ *07, Thousand Oab. Calif., July 17. FRANTC DERRICK '08, St. Petersburg, Fla., Sept. 23. A retired employee in the engineering 
division of Pure Oil Co. he had also scr\-cd on 
the faculty of the University, Surxiving are his 
widox%', a son and a daughter. 
DENNIS A. MORRISON '10, Los Angeles, 
Sept. 24. A veteran newspaperman and publicist 
for motion picture studios and producers he had 
also served as nonfictton editor of Liberty Magazine. 
SurviWng is his widow. 
JOSEPH J, HINDE *11, Bradenton, Fla. Sur^ 
vi\ins arc his widow, son Charles *50, another 
son and three daughters. 
EDWARD "SLIP" M.ADIGAN '20, Oakland, 
Calif., Oct. 10. A lineman while at ND he ii-as 
coach of St. Mary's Col. (Calif.) for 19 years 
and also serx'ed as head coach of Io\\*a for two 
seasons. For two years he was general manager 
of the Los Angeles Dons. At the time of his 
death he was head of a real estate and construe' 
tion finn. He is sur\*ii'cd by his xvidow and son. 
HARRY L. CLAIBORNE '22, Nash«IIe, Tcnn. 
Surviving is his widow. 
EUGENE A SMOGOR '22, South Bend, Aug. 
13. He was president of the former Smogor Lum­ber Co. and a member of numerous cine and fraternal organizations. He was also active in the Notre Dame Club of tlie St. Joseph Valley. Sur­wving are his widow and a son. 
^VALTER J. McINTYRE JR. '23, South Bend, 
Oct. 12. 
LEWIS J. MURPHY '23, Dallas, Sept. 22. 
Active in Veterans' affaiis for over 50 ycais he 
headed the Disabled American Veterans Service 
Office until his retirement in 1962. He practiced 
law in South Bend for 20 years before moving to 

Dallas, and was once a candidate for Congress 
from Indiana. He is survived by his widow, a 
son, Robert E. '46 and a daughter. 
CLIFFORD B. WARD '23, Fort AVaync, Sept. 

16. Editor of the Fort Wayne News-Sentinel for 21 years he also wrote a daily column for 33 years. He was a member of the American Society of Netvspaper Editors and was active in Republican politics as well as numerous civic organizations. Surviving are his widow, sons Alien C. '51 and Terrcncc J. '59 and a daughter. 
CLARENCE T. JOOS '24, Lancaster. Ohio, 

Oct. 19, A onetime staff and feature writer for 
the two Lancaster papers he was also the head 
of the W. E. Joos Shoe Co. for 30 years. He 
coached at St. Mary's H.S. and was active in 
Democratic affairs and was a member of the 
K of C and the Elks. Surviving are his widow, 
nx sons and six daughters. 
SISTER MARY NAOMI KELLEY BVil MA 

*25, Chicago. LAWRE.\CE O'LEARY '25, Los Angeles. JOSEPH A. BACH '26, BridgeviUc, Pa., Oct. 
24. A tackle while at ND he was a member of the "Seven Mules" in '23 and '24. A former head coach of Pittsburgh pro football teams he also coached the Detroit Lions, New York Giants and Boston Yanks as well as several college teams. At the time of his death he was a state labor mediator in Pcnns>ivania. He ser\'ed as president of the ND Monogram Club in 1947. Surviving are his widow and a daughter. 
MORTON R. GOODMAN LLB '30, Beverly Hills, Calif., Aug. 29. EDWARD W. BARNEY '31, Forty Fort, Pa., July 22. He is survived by his widow. CHARLES J. CARRIG '31, Los Aneclcs. Auff. 18. 
E. DOUGLAS O'BRIEN '31, Mahwab, N.J., 

Feb. 26. 
BENJAMIN J. MIKES '32. Spring, 1965. 

Dr. ROBERT F. GEHRES '37, Sacramento, Calif., July 30. A practicing urologist at the time of his death he gained national recognition for his development of a method to chemically dissolve kidney stones. He is survived by his widow, son and flaughter. 
BERNARD J. WASSEL '38, Pottsville, Pa., April 13. He is survived by his widow and son. 
ROBERT if. JONES '42, Altoona, Pa., July 28, 1965. A funeral director he h survived by his widow and eight children. 
ALBERT J. EICHENLAUB '47-'49, Columbus, Ohio, Aug. 28. 
OTTO J. POZGAY '49. South fiend, Sept. 22. Operator of a sand and gravel business he held a law degree and had served six terms in the Indiana General Assembly. Surviving arc his widow and two sons and two daughters. 
CARL SCHERER '56, St. Charles, Mo., Oct, 6. A senior electrical engineer for &fcDonncII Aircraft Corp. he was engaged on the Gemini 11 project at the time of his death. He is survived by his v^dow, two sons and a daughter. 
RAYMOND L. KflLLER '57, Riverside, Calif., Sept. 30. A captain in the Reserves he was killed in an auiplane crash. Surviving is his vvido^v. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 

JAMES J. CARROLL '60, Miami Beach, Fla., Oct. 5. A Marine captain he was killed in action in Vietnam, Sur\'i%'ing arc his widow and youne child. 
SISTER ^LUlY PAULINE SORCI CSJ MA '« , LaOrangc Park, 111., April. 
EDWARD J. DALTON JR. '65, Concord, Mass., August. He was killed -while oa duty in Vietnam. 
FACULTY AND STAFF DEATHS 
Frank W. Horan, a professor 
of civil engineering, died No­
vember I in South Bend. He 
received his degree from Rens­
selaer Polytechnic Institute in 
1913 and was a city engineer 
for the city of Troy, N.Y. 
prior to joining the Univer­

sity's faculty in 1921-A spe­^alist in surveying he retired from the department of civil engineering in 1958 with the rank of professor emeritus. Surviving are his ^vidow, a son, a daughter and eight grandchildren. 
i -Year Club 
"• 'W W m ^ ^*"M agreeably surprised rcccnt­

^^^ ^ ^^^ F ly on receiving a letter from 
CARLETOX D. BEH, Class of '17, who has been engaged in the investment securities business for nearly 50 years in Des Moines, low-a. He stated that in looking over the Reunion bulletin he noticed that I am secretary of the Class of '15 and live in suburban Chicago at LaGrangc. In a subsequent letter he informed me that he and a group of fellow Alumni were la>-ing plans for a really big party in connection with the Golden Jubilee of the Cbss of '17 next year. 
The first meeting of the group was to have been held at tlie Army game and the following were to be present: JOHN URBAN RILEY from Maine; DANNY HILGARTNER, retired from the Chicago Tribune, and his %vife were coming from their home in Harbcrt, Mich.; Elizabeth and PAUL FOGARTY and the BEHs. In addition, they expected FRED MAHAFFEY from Indian­apolis and RIGNEY SACKLEY of Chicago. The group was to be guests of BERNIE VOLL of South Bend. Carlcton tells me that he spends the weekends in the Union League Club in Chi­cago when Notre Dame plays at home and also the Northwestern game on Oct. 1. 
Another pleasant surprise came in tlie form of a letter from CHARLES CORCORAN, another member of the Class of *17, who lives in Spring­field, 111. His letter was in response to a request I had made for information about members of the Class of '15 whose mail is returned unclaimed. He informed me that PAUL G. DIXON Sr. re­sides at 3049 S. 3rd St. in Springfield, III. I am indeed grateful for this information and owe a debt of gratitude to Chas. "Chubby" Corcoran for reading the notes about the Class of M5 and giving me the information. We are most anxious to keep in contact with fellow alumni and I'm confident the University is also. Additional re­sponses to my requests are welcome. 
Charles Corcoran also said he is planning on 

attending the '17 Class Reunion next year and 
hopes he will be joined by SHERWOOD DIXON 
and EDDIE McOSKER. There appears to be 
every indication that tlicrc w*il] be a large group 
of the '17 Class on hand for their Golden Jubilee. 
They will never regret it I'm sure—it is indeed 
a **golden opportunity." 
ALBERT A. KUHLE '15 117 Sunset Ave., LaGrange^ 
UK 60525 
JASPER LAWTON '11 
A Thumbnail Sketch 
Jasper Lawton '11 graduated from Notre Dame 

a little more than 50 years ago. But his tenure at 
the University began long before he started his 
college studies. 
This alumnus came to Notre Dame and took 

up residence in St. Edward's Hall when he was 
just five years old—young enough to sit on the 
lap of Rev. Edward Sorin CSC, founder of the 
University, and **pull his whiskers"—and get away 
with it. Orphaned at an early age Jap Lawton 
was brought to Notre Dame through the influence 
of the Studebaker Brothers for whom his late 
father had been employed. He remained to complete his high school studies under the program then in effect. 
Financial conditions dictated that Jap leave Notre Dame after his high school graduation. He went to work as a farm hand in Michigan and often labored for as little as 25 cents a flay and board. But Brother Paul CSC, who had taken a deep interest in Jap when he was a student, had not forgotten the young Alumnus. Four years after Jap had left Notre Dame, Brother Paul was able to contact him with an offer that would enable bim to return to the University. When he Iieard the nc^«, Jasper Lawton immedbtely replied: "I'll start walking down there right a\vay!" But not only was the brother able to offer work for the young student but fare for a ride on the interurban as well. 
Lawton studied chemistry under Rev. Julius Nicuwiand CSC, the %vcll-kno\vn chemist. Upon graduation he went into business for himself, founding a chemical company in Michigan. One of his favorite reminiscences concerns a Univcisity of Michigan professor who remarked on Lawton's solving a chemical problem: "Only someone who bad studied under Father Nicu^vland could have (vorkcd out this problem as you have done." 
Witli the approach of the depression Jasper Lawton closed his busines and went to ^vork for the O'Brien Corporation. He found a prime and steady customer in his old benefactors, the Stude­bakers. Business flourished and for years Lawtort was rated as O'Brien's top business producer. 
He never forgot the generosity of Notre Dame and when the University celebrated its one hundreth anniversary Jasper Lawton organized a **Ccntury Club." Its 36 members each gave $100 to the University; Bill Sciimidt '10, a charter member, gave $5000. The late Rev. Hugh O'Donnell CSC said of Jap's work: "You are the t>-pe of alumnus that presidents dream about, but never realize." Jasper Lawton's loj-alty to his Alma Mater has been second only to his care for his family. His first w*ife died and left him with one son. In 1922 Jap married the former Miss Martha Marie Peterson. They have four sons and a daughter. His eldest son, James Howard, has sbc children, one of whom is attending the Na\-al Academy with hopes of a career as an astronaut; Jasper Jr­15 a CP A and an instructor at the South Bend campus of Indiana University; Edward is a South Bend dentist; John is a paint chemist for Inter-Dational Har\*esler Company; Louis is with Inter­continental Chemical Company in Los Angeles; and Ann is married to William McQuane '31 and lives in Buffalo, N.Y. All together there arc twenty Lawton grandchildren. Jap and his wife reside at 1136 Blaine Ave., South Bend. 
WALTER L. CLEMENTS "14 
Tower BIdg., South Bend, 
Ind. 46601 
^ ^^ jm ^ ^ BOB DALY, 20900 Homc­
* l t J ^ u ^ stcnd Rd., Cupcrlino, I ^I'U I V J Calif, didn't attend our I ^^t^ B ^^^ r 50th Reunion as he u-as in 

the hospital. 1 sent him pictures. RAY HU.MPHREY invites us all to visit hita at Littleton, Colo. R..\Y XIcADAMS came up from 2301 Alhambra Circle, Coial Gables, Fla. for his first Reunion and had a grand time. JAKE ECKEL at Cazeno%-ia, N.Y. brought his loveiy wife. LOUIE KEIFER, who ran the paper in Terrc Haute, \o\vi he will come back every year now. 
GROVER F. MILLER 220 9th St., Racine, Wis. 53403 
1917 
EDWARD J. McOSKER 525 N. Melrose Ave., Elgin, III. 60121 

jfl ^^^^^fl ^^ ^ ^* ^''^t^^V greetings for ^m ^^^1^1 ^Li^C y°^ to remember or for I ^F^B I M "S you to have your wife 
• % ^ • ^a^ send a card: Dee. /, 

CHARLES W. BACH­MAN *17, 11 Sunset Lane, Pompano Beach, Fla.; Dec. W, JAMES L. SWEENEY, 1254 Milwaukee, Denver 6, Colo.; Dee. 15, FRANK M. KIRK­LAND '17, 950 SW 21st St., Portland, Ore.; Dee. 18, CARLETON D. BEH '17, 5323 Water­bury Rd., Des Moines, Iowa; Dee. 21, EDWIN T. BREEN, 1542 Sherwin Ave., Chicago 60626; Dee. 28, PAUL EDGREN, 701 Culbcrtson Dr., Oklahoma City, Okla. 73105; Dee. 31, RENE .\. RODRIGUES MD, 2266 Broadway, Denver, Colo.; Jan. 1, EDWARD R. McDONNELL, 316 Wood­land Dr., Council Bluffs, Iowa; Jan. 22, LEON­ARD F. MAYER, 721 S. Beach St., Daytona Beach, Fla. 32014; Jan. 23, JOHN A. LEMMER, 901 Lake Shore Dr., Escanaba, Mich. 49829. 
If we have missed reporting your birthday, please send a card that we might hai'e our roster 100 per cent- Thanks. 
WILLIAM J. ANDRES reports on his family tree: two boys, two girls and 16 grandchildren. One boy is at ND, one girl at Kfarquette and one at Mundelein. MAXIMILLIAN G. KAZUS has a grand idea for honorary reunion fliplomas and you'll hear more about them. He was on campus and visited with JAMES ARMSTRONG '25 and gave him the idea. He thinks a lot of the idea and will carry the ball from now on. We thank you. Max, for a great idea. Texas 
W. A. GR.\DY '17 sends word he and the Mrs. have been looking over the quarter horses at Ruidoso, N.M. 
Dro\-e down to Robinson, IH. to see tVILLIAM 

E. BR.ADBURY on his birthday and had dinner with him Sept. 8. Same ole Bill. Returning, I drove back via Rantoul, III. and naturally stopped to phone Father C. J. WILLIAMS and was com­manded to *'stop by." Had a most enjoj'able visit ^^ith Father who is looking good and feels fine. 
Talked with FRED L. STEERS '12 and learned that NORM BARRY '21, who is now a circuit court judge, never wore headgear while playing halfback on the football team. See what we "ole timers" know and remember about you *'young whippersnappcrs"? 
FR.ANK X. RYDZEWSKI is enjoying good health and was pleased to get a birthtlay greeting card from PETER J. RONCHETTI. Pete's the guy who, at our last Reunion, asked Frank with what hall team he played football. DOC D. M. NIGRO '17 sent an invite to board the SS Nigro. Also received Doc's summer and fall newsletter. This guy sure gets around and ^nth the Who's Who. LAMBERT Q. SENG, another track star, sent a card stating bis plans are still for driving to Dixon, HI. and having lunch with cx-lieutenant governor SHERWOOD DDCON. CARLETON D. BEH '17 wTOte requesting addresses of: JOHN LEMMER, TOM KING, MORRIE STARRETT and JOHN REUSS. Beh, as usual, has the same box for all home games. Carlcton, the track man, u-rites about Father SIMONS who is now at Our Lady of Guadalupe in Lafayette, Ore. and that FRANK KIRKLAND '17, another monogram track sUir, u'as going out to see Father Simons. Gotta find out more about Father Simons from Kirkland. 
Rev. THOMAS J. 0'DON*NELL CSC, as an appropriate expression of our condolences, remem­bered PAUL L. McAULIFFE in a Msss on Sept. 3. 
New addresses for: WILLIAM H. KELLEY Jr., 1950 Rceveston Rd., Richmond. Ind. 47374; ED­WARD T. McFADDEN, 2107 72nd PL, Chicago, III. 60636. 
May each and e\-ery one of you and youis have a most enjoyable Christmas. A New Year full of good health and contentncss. Peace. 
GEORGE WAAGE 3305 Wrightwood Ave., Chicago, 
III. 60647 

ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 
be on deck, barring the unforeseen. My new status FR.ANCIS WALLACE seems to have a >vinner is tliat of state referee. The constitution of Con­with his latest opus, '*Notrc Dame from Rockne necticut proridcs that no judge shall be eligible to Parseghian." On the Friday afternoon and to hold his office after he arrives at the age of 70. Saturday morning of the Army game he \%'as kept For me, that date was Aug. 13. .A.fter 15 years busy \rith autograph parties in downtown South 
1919 
THEODORE C. RADEMAKER Peru Foundry Co., Peru, Ind. 46900 
1920 
JAMES H. RYAN 170 Maybrook Rd., Rochester, N.Y. 14618 

^ ^M^k ^p^ ^ ^ .-Xflcr our 45th Reunion ^B ^ '^M JI^ I the mail is down quite a I ^^^fl ^^ F I little. I expect to do bet-I ^^^^ ^^^^ I tcr in the next issue; for 
sure there will be Clirist­mas cards. LEO KELLEY called me from the Cleveland airport asking me to go to the Purdue game. He was changing planes here on his xray from Sj-racuse. Kcllc>- is becoming a regular at home games. He and JOE BRANDY alu-a>-s made tlic .^rmy games whcne\-er phycd in New York. Had a letter in September from SHERWOOD DIXON who is now a referee in bankruptcy for the US District Court in Dbcon, 111. He also made the Purdue game. 
DAN W. DUFFY lOSONotl. City E. 6th BIdg., Cleveland, Ohio 44114 
One more grand class­mate lias been called to his reward. This time the summons 

1922 
came to EUGENE A. 

SMOGOR, 66, of South Bend, on Aug. 13. In our last report to the ALUM.N'US WC mentioned that Eugene had a gall-bladder operation in late July. He was released from the hospital, but subse­quently was returned thereto due to complications. Eugene Avas president of the former Smogor Lum­ber Co. and for many years liad taken great interest in civic affairs and projects. He held memberships in many South Bend organizations. He w-as identified with the Achie\*ement Forum, the St. Joseph County Mental Health Assn., the 
Z. B. Conscr\*ation Club and the Chopin Fine -\rts Club. Eugene has always been a lo>-al class­mate and did much to make all of our Class Re­unior.s outstandingly successful. He will be sorely missed in June when wc convene for our -ISlh Reunion. Our deepest s>Tnpaihy is extended to Mrs. Smogor (Marie); a son, Clement; a brother, Louis E. of South Bend; and two sisters, Mrs. Gabriel Fcrrante of San Francisco and Mbs Jean­ette Smogor of South Bend. 
Through the courtcs>- of D.\N CULH.\.\E '23 wc Icam \dl\i sorrow of another death in our *22 family, that of Mrs. Marv K. Duffev. beloved wife of JOSEPH E. DUFFEY of 10 Gros\enor Rd., Short Hills, N.J. on .^ug. 10. We extend our condolences to all members of the DufTcy family. 
In bte summer, the J. RALPH CORYNs of Molinc, III. were in Toronto visiting their flaugh­ter. En route home they made a stop-off in the Detroit area to vTSil JACK HIGGINS and irife, Margaretta. Another stop u-as made at Diamond Lake. Cassopolis, Mich, for a \-isit with the HAROLD WEBERs. 
We were delighted to receive a fine letter from J.\MES E. MURPHY, Bridgeport, Conn., dated Sept. 28. Jim writes: *'Don't succumb to shock upon hearing from me- As my new status will enable me to more or less set my own schedule, I expect to make the Reunion in June. I shall on the trial bench and nine years on the Supreme Court, I became a state referee and not a retired judge as may be tlie case elsewhere. So long as my health holds out, I intend to be as active as possible. 
'•The photograph of the Catholic group at Fort Ben Harrison in 1917, which appeared in the last issue of the ALUMNUS afforded me a chance lo pick out some other ND men wh.0 were there with me. The first one I spotted was FR.-\NK "BILL" FOX squalling next to LOU KEIFER. TOM DOLL.-\RD and I arc in the back row in the middle of the picture while my brother JERRY and PAUL FOGARTY an; near the left end diagonally to the rear of GEORGE FITZ­P,\TRICK and HARRY BAUJAN. Also, I found THO^L\S V. "NIFT^'" HOLLAND but was unable to locate "JUD" HYLAND or ED Mc-OSKER, the secretary of the Class of '17. Perhaps I can do better when I get a chance to look at the original picture in June. Tell JIM ARXf-STRONG not to restrict the viewing to the grads in '17 as there were some freshmen who qualified at that camp. 
''Incidentally, I think that the Class notes should be retained in the .ALUMNUS. AS I am so far away from the campus, llic>" arc the only means of keeping tabs on those who were at ND in my time." 
Lively interest is already generating and spread­ing over the bnd in connection with that grand 45th-Year Class Reunion upcoming next June. Our genial and popular Class President J. RALPH COR'\*N is on the move in Reunion business as arc these stalwart South Benders: FRED DRES­SEL, ROLAND GOHEEN, "CHET" GRANT, F.\THER JANKOWSKI, "P.AT" M.\NION, LEO METZGER. "RANGY" MILES, PAUL PADEN. PAUL SCHWERTLEY. WALTER SHILTS, Dr. SOBECKI, and HAROLD WEBER. Start right now to plan your trip to the campus for our 45lh Reunion. Write or phone your classmate friends wherever they locate and tell them you intend to be there and you also want them lo show. .\ special citation goes to ROBERT G.ALLOW.AY, Iaw>-cr, of Silver Creek, X.Y. wlio is the very first man to ask for a reservation. "Bob" has been very faithful over the years in attending our 5-Year Reunions. 
New address department: Dr. ^L\TTHEW W. WEIS. 35 N. Central Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 63105; >frs. CH.ARLES J. HIRSCHBUHL, 2323 S.W. \^t a .Ave, Portland, Ore. 97201. 
G. A. "KID" ASHE 
175 Landing Rd. N., Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
Mail from and to classmates, although not sufficiently large to %%'arrant hiring a

1923 
secretary, continues to a point Axiiere I feel a justi6able pride in holding to a system of Class communication which is in line with the admonition of the editor of the .ALUMNUS to hold down the volume of Class notes to more modest proportions. I hold to the theory that almost no Class notes arc of interest to anyone but classmates—at most to their immediate seniors or juniors while in school—and that the mine-run of chitchat is best relayed to one's own Class through newsletters mailed directly to class­mates. I have found tliat classmates mllingly un* dcnmle such a series of mailings. Only outstand­ing happenings—sadly in the earlier Classes the obituaries—arc good enough news copy lo warrant space in the ALUMNUS. TTicsc happenings I report herewith: 
HENRY B.ARNH.ART continues after more than a year as a patient in Big Town Nursing Home (Highway 80 at Gross Rd. in Mesquitc, Tex.) following his stroke in 1965, but hopes to leave soon for an apartment in Dallas. JOSEPH 
J. CASAS.ANTA received a two^olumn storj' and picture in the South Bend Tribune in September on his career in music at ND starting Mth his music schobrship in 1919 through his direction of the band, authorship (with brother-in-law VINCE F.AGAN '20) of the Notre Dame "Hike Song," "Down the Line," and "Notre Dame, Our Mother" and finishing with his momentary direc­tion of the band on the Friday night before the Purdue game. 
Bend and on campus. Present in his room at the Morris Inn after the game were JOHN CH.APLA, GEORGE PATTERSON, JOSEPH W. NYIKOS, PAUL CASTNER and LOUIS BRUGGNER. Other men of '23 seen or known to be at the Army game ucrc WHFTEY UNVERFERTH, ED KREIMER, DICK NASH. MURRAY POWERS, JOHN STEPHAN and JACK NORTO.V. That makes a pretty good head count at 12. P.AUL CASTNER is hard at work researching for his projected book on Rockne, slanted to the younger generation and detailing Rock's brilliance as an inspiration to boys nationally. 
Deatlis of men of '23, as alwa\-s, are the big­gest neu-s in these columns. However, to give more attention to the quick ihnn to the dead (in the assurance that other columns of thb issue will also chronicle the obituaries) I list only the bare facts of our most recent losses: CLIFFORD B. WARD, the Fort Wayne journalist, had hardly settled down to enjoy his retirement w^ien he died suddenly Sept. 16. Address his widow at 4655 Old Mill Rd., Fort Wa>-ne, Ind. ClifTs demise w-za followed closely by that of LEWIS J. MUR­PHY, a former resident of South Bend, who died in Dallas, Tex. on Sept. 22 following a three-month illness. Lew held a doctorate in law (ND *26) and was national service officer of the DAV in San Francisco and Dallas. Address: Apt. 115, Windsor House, 5920 E. University BK-d., Dallas 75206. WALTER J. McINTTRE Jr. suffered a heart attack while at work Oct. 12 at Notre Dame and was pronounced dead on arri%'al at St. Joseph's Hospital. He had been ill a month or more re­cently of the same illness. Walter received his BS in agriculture from ND in '23. 
LOUIS V. BRUGGNER 1667 Riverside Dr., Apt. A, South Bend, Ind. A66\6 

1924 
JAMES R. MEEHAN 301 S. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend, ind. 46601 
It is the morning after 
that glorious 26-io-14 
liclor}* over Purdue. 
What a combination: 

Terry to Jim. And there is still Colc>- O'Brien coming up "for frost­ing" in the balance of the games this fall. 
I saw JERRY MILLER, BILL HURLEY and BEN KESTLNG at the game. When asked about whether they would be back for our *'In-Be­tweencr" Reunion in June '67, there was a unanimous "yes." In fact BEN KESTING made it a point to call me and say he had already selected his Reunion roommate, FRANK MUR­RAY. 
You all better select a roommate right now because u'e Iiave a surprise coming up soon. A letter will inform you of our plans. It will be the best and most instructive Reunion you have ever attended. Like the Madison Ave. bo>-s, wc will keep adding to our list of incentives. In addition to our Rt. Rei.-. JOHN KING MUSSIO, the Fri­day evening dinner speaker, wc will have CLAR­ENCE "PAT" MANTON who \rill have some interesting tales of a recent trip with his wife *'Gina" lo Vietnam and Formosa. Gina is the only woman who has flown into Qucmoy in the past few years. "Dean Pat" will be on the air with these tales in his **Manion Forum" but wc will hear it personally. 
Many of >x>u may have read about Dr. GEORGE 

1925 
N. SHUSTER's report on the Carnegie findings on Catholic schools on the front page of the Sunday New York Times in August. Wc arc proud of our "Profs" of yesterj-ear. In fact these \-arious messages are so important that there uill be separate sessions at the Reunion so that all the returning Alumni can hear them. All of the "Profs" of our day will be with us—Father JOHN CAVANAUGH, PAUL FENLON. and Father^ CORNELIUS H.AGERTY, PATRICK DOLAN, 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 
and CHARLES DOREMUS. Seeing and having personal chats with these men should make you \%*ant to come back in June. 
Two Weeks ago, while in Cleveland, I had dinner with our president, "His Honor" Judge DONALD C. MILLER and his wife, May. In planning for the Reunion, we want other Classes to know wc plan to smash previous records of attendance—a feat wc have alwa>-s accomplished and are not about to change at this late stage. 
Let's send a Christmas card to your '25 crowd and let them know you will be back and that you hope to sec them on the campus. Don't forget to select that "roomie." 
JOSEPH D. SHELLY retired as senior vice-president of Chicago Title and Trust Co. He has been with the company 40 years and ser\-ed as president of the Chicago Title and Trust Co. Foundation since 1961. Mrs. Mary STUHL­DREHER has been named dean of wiomcn at Duquesne U. A letter from JIM ARMSTRONG to GEORGE B. CHAO gives you an idea on how both of these wonderful families have fared. It is a bit on the perKina! side but so well done and so newsy I am sure Jim won't mind. 
"Mr. George B. Chao, 27 Hamilton Road, Penang, Mala>-sia: Dear George: Your letter was indeed a bright spot. The years have been good and pleasant in many wa>-s, remaining here on the campus of Our Lady. But it has not kept me from the understanding that others, like you, with more merit have found the changes of the world much harder to survive. It is because of this that I welcome the news of the progress of your son with his MA from Pace College and his career in New York, and >-our daughter with her MD from Dusseldorf. Her practice in Dublin probably stems from the fact that the Class of '25 often thinks of you as 'MURPHY.* It was a compliment then, George, and remains one. It must give you great satisfaction that in spite of the hard years your children have been so successful in launching their own lives. 
"I have my youngest son giving great com­fort with his wife and three children to Mrs. Armstrong and mc here in South Bend. ^ Two of my bo>-s are married in California, one in Whit­tier and one in the San Fernando Valley. A fourth son is being married in Fresno, Calif, in November. The fifth son (number three in age) is a Holy Cross Brother and just left for three years in Sekondi, Ghana teaching high school there. The daughters-in-law, and two granddaugh­ters have been the only girls in the family. J have been told often that I would be highly re­garded in China, with five sons and six grandsons. JOHN HURLEY continues to be a visitor and looks the same as he did when he sold Class iewclrj- and dance programs with RAY CUN­NINGHAM on the campus. HENRY WURZER comes in and out occasionally. The list of those wc have lost grows, but the remaining ones close ranks and keep up faithfully and enthusiastically PAUL KOHOUT from Idaho stopped in a few da>-s ago. George, write whenever you can. It is a joy to hear from you." 
JOHN P. HURLEY 2085 Brookdale Rd., Toledo, Ohio 43606 
1926 
J. N. GELSON 
Gelson & Lowell, Inc., 200 E. 42nd St., New York, N.Y.I 0017 
 time has now come for us all to make plans for our 40lh \ear Class Re­
1927 The 
union On June 9, 
"^mmms^mmA, 
10 and II we will have the opportunity to relive the days before the depression, the New Deal, WW II, Korea, John F. Kennedy, Vietnam, and our respective marrbges, children and grandchil­dren. We can recapture the spirit, the com­radeship that only Notre Dame knows. 
Many events have taken place during the last 40 years, more than wc ever dreamed could hap­pen. Yet, when once in a while wc see a class­mate Wc haven't heard from In several years we realize that people themselves don't change. Our characters, our traits, our personalities are the same as they were in 1927. So, back on the campus next June we can begin where wc left off on our own Commencement years ago. Reminiscing will come easy. Don't miss thb happy occasion. 
MIKE SWYGERT is already appointing a Re­union committee. Advise them as soon as pos­sible of your intentions. 
A fe^v weeks ago I had a call from JIM HANRAHAN on his way home from a trip. He is well and thriving in the practice of law in his home town of Frankfort, Ky. I have also heart) from DICK HALPIN. He points out that as of Jan. 1, 1967 he will have only 38 pay checks from Commonwealth Edison Co. to culminate 40 years of ser\'ice. His brother John, also a class­mate, will have the same number of years of scrv'ice with International Har^'cster Co. after 64 more jiay checks. Like the rest of us, the Halpins are realizing that age 65 is not far away. Items like this help us to realize how important a Reunion is. 
The other day I received some notices of change of address. I noticed particularly that Father HARRY RYAN is now stationed at St. Patrick's Church, Burlington, lou-a. I trust he will keep dose %%-atch over JACK D.MLEY and then say a Mass for us next June. 
CLARENCE J. RUDDY 32 S. River St., Aurora, III. 60504 
Congratula t i o n s to 
HOWARD V. PH.A­
LIN on being elected 
chairman of the board 
and chief executive 
ofHccr of Field Enterprises Educational Corp., and 
to ED DEAN on his being appointed a vice-
president and general manager of the Missouri 
Coke and Chemical Div. of Great Lakes Carbon 
Corp. 
I understand that Father JIM McSHANE S j 
Is now involved in radio and television scriptwrit­
ing for the Sacred Heart program in St. Louis. 
He also had an article in the current Issue of 
1928 
Jesuit Missions. 
Wc enjoyed a delightful get-together at the 
home of DAN BRADLEY with the following class­
mates and their wives: BERN G.\RBER (Corbin 
Co.), VIC FISCHER (.New York Dcpt. of Public 
Works), BOB HAMILTON (Pan .American), 
JOHN ANTUS (US Customs Court), AL T.\Y­
LOR (US Customs Court), JOE KISSLING 
(Grumman Aircraft Engineering Corp.), GEORGE 
CRONGEYER (Metropolitan Life Ins. Co.). ED 
BREN.-\N (Buriington Industries) and JOHN 
FOLKS '30 (Suffolk Lumber and Supply Corp.). 
Dr. DAN BRADLEY was made a knight of the 
Holy Sepulchre a few years ago. BERN G.\RBER 
has sons at Pace Col., U. of Toronto, St. Gregory 
Col. and Notre Dame. VIC FISCHER has two 
sons at ND this year. 
Our thanks to our Class President BERN G.AR­
BER. for the excellent mailing sent to you early 
in September. Bemie has our sympathy on the 
deaths of his two older sisters. 
\Ve appreciate the card from Father FRANCIS 
X. QULNN CSC from Valatie, N.Y., advising that he was offering a Mass for all deceased members of the Class of '28. 
My Miami correspondent, F. X. JlXf O'BRIEN, sent a copy of the Miami Herald with pictures of interim sheriff GEORGE LEPPIG of Dade Coun­ty, Fla. at his news conference on crime in that area. JOHN LISICKI tells me he sees TON*Y CERES who is superintendent of schools in Penh Amboy, N.J. Tony recently became i father! This is the first birth I have announced in years. Let mc know of others. I was sorry to hear that Tony had lost two wives in death prior to his present marriage. I had the pleasant surprise of acci­dentally meeting RAY LUSSON and his wife in the lobby of the Americana Hotel in Manhattan. Ray is still with the Board of Education in Chi­cago. I had dinner with Judge BILL JONES and Alice in Washington. Bill tells me that BILL CARNEY has a daughter who is a nun with the Religious Sbteis of the Sacred Heart. BILL CARNEY'S son teaches at the U. off HawaH and another daughter is at Newton Got Judge Jones spoke this summer before the National Assn. of Railroad Travel Counsel in Greenbrier, W.Va, 
Many of you no doubt join me in expressing regrets that JOE BREIG wrote his last column for Ave Maria on Aug. 27. I agree with Father JOHN REEDY CSC who commented, "Joe has always been at his best (and that best is un­matched by anyone else curxentiy writing in the Catholic press), when he combines the human, personal, emotional elements with the religious values which are an integral part of hb person­ality." JOHN J. WINBERRY was a candidate in New Jersey's Democratic Senate Primary this summer. JOHN "RED" LAHEY. who has 22 grandchildren, sent me pictures from IKxon, 111. of his grandsons in N D sweaters. There were enough for a football team, plus one sub. Are there any classmates with more grandchildren? 
Our Treasurer, JOE LANGTON, wrote from 406 W. Madison St., Ottawa, 111. in October as he was leaving for a trip to Ireland and England. Joe adi-iscd me that he had received $457.50 from 45 classmates for the Class Mass Fund. I am sure that by the time this reaches you, many others will have contributed. Joe asked that I extend thanks to all the contributors. 
BOB B.ANNION caUed me and VINCE CAR­NEY and Mary visited us following the 11th annual '28 Cocktail Party after the Army game to report on the great party ED QUINN put on for the Class. Based on the guest bfx>k brought to me by Vincc, plus names added by Vince and Ed Quinn, I am reporting on the following at­tendance: AL DAVIS; Mary and VINCE CAR­NEY; Edith and LEO MclNTYRE and son, Leo Jr.; Maye and FRANK CREADON; Evangeline and HOWARD PH.AHN; Frances and JOHN LAHEY; Katherine and JIM ALLAN; Holly and DICK QUINLAN; Eleanor and BILL DWYER and two guests; Veronica and MIKE RICKS; ED RAFTER and his guest; Marge and JOHN RICK­FORD; Juanita and ART I^IILLER; Fran and JOE DORAN and guests; Bbnche K. and ED McKEON; Mary and JOHN IGOE; MIKE HO­GAN and his wife; Kaley and VINCE WALSH and two guests; GUS JENKINS and his brother, CLARENCE; Mildred and BILL BROWN; Marion and JOE HILGER; JAMES CONMEY; Dolores and RUSSELL SMITH; BOB BANNON; BOB S.ALAMON; Margaret and LOU NORMAN; Peg and JOHN FREDERICK; HERB McCABE; BILL MURPHY and hU sister, Helen; CHET RICE'S widow; GEORGE McLAUGHLIN; JOHN "SQUARE PETUNIA" McMANMON; GENE "RED" BROWN; FRAN*K McCARTHY; P.AT C.ANNY; VINCE W.ALSH; JOE GRIFFIN; ROGER BRESLIN; BOB MOHLMAN; BUD TOPPING; TOM MEDLAND; and PHIL CEX­EDELLA. We are very giatcful to Ed Quitm for arranging another successful party for xa. 
LOUIS F. BUCKLEY 68-10 108th St.. Forest Hills, N.Y. 11375 
''It was one of our 
best after-game get­
togethen.'* And **I 
didn't know t}iat such 
a pleasant and enjoy­
able party existed" were among the remarks made 
after '29en and their guests departed &om the 
post-Army game Class get-together—some as late 
as 8:00 p.m. Welcome newcomers included: Rose­
mary and JOE OBRVAN and their guests, Jlr. 
and MIS. John OBryan, also of HyattsviSe, Kan.; 
Mary and CHARLEY COLTON, who traveled 
from Taunton, Mass.; JOE DRINANE and his 
daughter, Lee; "CLEM" CLEMENTS of Ken­
tucky; LOUIS HANEY of Newark, N.Y.; and 
JOE B.AR.NETT of Ogdensburg, N.Y. 
We arc soiry that this, our largest and perhaps 
handsomest attendance in some years, wasn't pho­
tographed for inclusion in this column. We will 
have some of FRANCIS MEYER's pictures soon 
for e\'entual transmission on to you. 
Our Class chaplain. Father OTIS WINCHES­TER, was with us as was Father LOUIS THORN­TON CSC. Our doctor classmates included Or. JOHN VAICHULIS and Dr. JIM TOBIN, who was accompanied by his wife, Margaret. Otheis present were JIM CURRY, JOHN COLANGELO, BILL CR.-MG, JIM DIG.W, JACK CUSHMAN, FR.ANK FLYNN, JIM KEATING, GAY HAAS. CLETE SCHNEIDER, FRANK METRAILER 
1929 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER I9 « DECEMBER 
and his brother, ED. We were pleased by the 
presence of the wives and guests of the many 
'29cr5 present. Mis. DON PLUNKETT and her 
daughter. Patsy, were also there. 
Among those who had plans to attend the game 
but had conflicting obligations cither at home or 
in South Bend were FRANCIS BUCKLEY, JOHN 
T. LYONS, FRED ^V.\GNER, JOHN DORGAN, GEORGE BEAMER, JOE HENIHAN, BOB VOGELWEDE and JIM GALLAGHER. 
October 14, 1967, the date of the U. of South­
ern California game at Notre Dame, has been 
mentioned tentatively as the most logical date for 
our next annual party. Sec the next issue of the 
ALUMNUS for more definite infonnation. Wc will 
publidze it more gcncmlly than in past years. 
We approached a total attendance of 66 persons, 
including guests, in '66—we will try for 67 in '67. 
Wc wish to acknowledge receipt of replies to oiu: 
mailing of raid-July. About 25 members of the 
Class who have not been mentioned above %verc 
kind enough to send news for the column. I'll 
use their material in the order in which it arrived. 
If you still have the form please fill it in and 
mail it—or just send a letter on your professional 
and family events of interest. 
CH.-\RLES HAYES SMITH continues to reside 
at 1117 S. Vine St., Denver, Colo, wth his wife, 
Elizabeth. Their last \-isit to the ND campus 
was in 1954. At that time he was with the US 

Iniemal Re\-enuc Service in the Los Angeles area. 
Charles, as some of our readers may recall, has 

been an in\-alid since 1956. Tliey were originally 
from Denver and returned there after his disabil­
ity retirement. Since early summer of *65 they 
have a granddaughter, Susannah Mary. The proud 
parents are Kathleen and Dennis Ford Smith, ilrs. 
Smith Sr. writes tliat LEON ARCHER and others 
are active in a fine Denver Club. 
Congratulations to tlic JOE KEEFE family oE Winter Haven, Fla, on the ordination of son. Father Patrick Dennis Kccfe, last December in St. Peter's Basilica. Vatican City. He celebrated Mass in his home parish, St. Joseph's Church in Winter Haven, on Sunday, July 31. Father Keefc took his seminary work at St. John Seminary in Little Rock, Ark. The Mass was concelcbrated \rith eight other priests and brought clergy and laity from all parts of the diocese and from out of state. The Keefcs ^velcomed friends at their home after the Mass. 
JIM BR.ADY, PO Box 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho attended the Purdue game. He is president and general manager of KIFI-TV and president of the Post Co. which publishes a daily newspaper in Idaho Falls. Jim's sons, JERRY and J.-VCK arc XD graduates of '58 and '65, respectively. James Jr. is a '65 graduate of Portland U. and daughter, Jill, is a *61 grad of San Dlcgo Col. for Women. Jim didn*t list any travel news but that hardly con\-ince5 one that tlicre is none. He has four grandchildren. 
KARL iLARTERSTECK is \nce-prcsidcnt and general manager of the Cle\-eland dix-ision of the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Co. in charge of Great Lakes operations from the Straits of Mack­inaw to the St. Lawrence Seaway. KARL Jr. '56 has four sons and Karl's daughter has two boys. Karl Villi see the 'Szny game in Philadelphia- He is appreciative of your response to his Class Agent letter. 
THONL\S F. *TinCKEY" McMAHON, 5505 S. Qaibome Ave, New Orleans, La. is a senior vice-
SMIUNG THEIR APPROVAL 
are these '29ers who gathered 
president of C. A. Sporl and Co., Inc., insurance brokers. His son, ex-ND, is also with C. A. SporL One of Mickey's daughters is married to ED MC­CARTHY '50, the other to JOHN PHH-BIN '39. He has 11 grandchildren. Mickey serves on the board of directors of International House, New Orleans as well as on the Board of Associated Catholic Charities of which he is past-president. 
JOHN M. GINZ, 621 Wise Rd., Cheshire, Conn., is president of Scal-Tite Products, Inc., manufacturers of roofing, flooring and allied build­ing maintenance products. Their sales territory covers the East. John has two sons and txx'o grand­sons. He hopes to be back for the June '69 fortieth Reunion. 
Wc extend the sympathy of the Class to Jim Curry who in recent months has suffered the loss in death of both his father and his wife. 
LARRY STAUDER Engineering BIdg., Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
1930 
DEVERE PLUNKETT O'Shaughnessy Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

jfl ^^^k i^^^ JM According to the Alumni ^ ^^ B K I Ofiice, this column will I ^T^W ^ ^ I appear in early December, 
• ^^ ^^ M so I ^vTsh to take this 

opportunity to thank those who contributed neu-s during the past year and at the same time extend to all classmates greetings of the Holy Christmas Season. 
The Reunion \\'a5 a success and the presence of many young '31ers has been brought back to me in the pictures taken there by the many amateur photographers. Thanks to GEORGE JACKO­BOICE and FRANK BUTORAC for the copies they so kindly sent. George lias been touring Europe again and sent a card. Frank Butorac has been touring the East recently before returning to San Diego where he uill cvrntuatly take up per­manent residence. I hope, Frank, that you will pick up some news at the Na\*y game and c»n-' tact m c LOUIS GODOY, with whom I en­joyed a long chat last June, has left New VOIIE and is now associated with Distributors Sanchez, 
S. A., Panama, Republic of Panama. EDDIE RYAN, who appeared a bit on the wan side at the Reunion, has been in the hospital for surgery but is now on the road to complete reco\"ery. 
Word has been received from the Alumni Office of the passing of the following classmates: ED­WARD W. BARNEY, July 22; E. DOUGLAS O'BRIEN. Feb. 26; and CHARLES J. CARRIG, Aug. 18. Please remember our deceased class­mates in your prayers and Masses. 
At the Northwestem-Notre Dame game I had a chance to visit with GENE VALLEE. Gene is with the Internal Revenue Senice and had to miss the Reunion due to a. death in his family. 
 of the frish win over Xrmy  for a post-gome reunion: Mrs. 
DON PLUNKETT and daughter. Patsy; Rosemary and JOE O'BRYAN; and Father OTIS WINCHESTER and FRANCIS MEYER. 
CARL CRONIN mentioned a trip East and a visit with JACK SAUNDERS and ART MciUN.MON. I also had the pleasure of a short visit with NORBERT STARSHAK, treasurer of Walgreen Drug Co. I attended the North Carolina game and was surprised at not finding any '31 men around Section 9. I am sure there were a few of the regular fans on hand, but this is tltc iint campus game I ever attended and failed to \-isit with some classmates. RAY COLLINS attended the Army game and, likewise, liad little success in de\*cloping news and contacts. 

While the ALUMNUS has asked secretaries to no longer try to fill a couple of pages with neirt, I am anxious to provide a regubr column and will apprecute responses on the tear-out cards provided in the magazine. Again best ^^-ishes for "^ Happy and Holy Holiday Season. 
JAMES T. DOYLE 1567 Ridge Ave., Aph 308, Evanston, III. 60201 
1932 

Ed. note: The following is an excerpt from correspondence between Archbishop Paul Hallinan of Atlanta and James E. Armstrongf Atumnt secretary. 
Dear Class Reunion Committee: 
I received the invitation to the 35th Reunion .. . my distress is evident. Apparently some com­puter has been ^\t)rking 35 years on the gradua­tion records and discovered that wliat I alvrays considered fondly as my BA *32 lias turned out to be im-alid. I went through the reguhr list— no HALLINAN! Hopefully, I consulted the list marked "deceased." Still no Hallinan. My two classmates, JOHN and JERRY CSC (WILSO.N) and my old friends, HARRY BURGER, NICK RUFFING and JERRY KLELN Arill, I believe, testify both that I did manage to get a diploma in '32 and that I am still existent. 
Most Rev. PAUL J. HALLINAN 

Your Excellency: 
You may be reassured to know that your ab­sence %%*as the source of concern to many of your classmates. And it will be a source of more than adequate compensation to us all to know that you will be present at the Reunion even though j-ou were absent from the roster. 
—JAMES E. ARMSTRONG 
JAMES K. COLLINS 
2982 Torrington Rd., 
Shaker Heights, Ohio 44122 
CHARLES A. CON­LEY, who has con­sented to act as gen­eral chairman for our 

1933 
33th Reunion in '68, was at Notre Dame for the ND-Furduc game and saw JOHN J. O'SHAUGHNESSY and LEO W. HODEL. Now at the University are John's third son and Leo's son who is a sophomore. In a recent visit to Chicago, Charlie also \T5ited with Jucfec MAURICE W. LEE. From Charlie we also heard that BERNARD M. "MIKE" DEL.\Y was recently elected Grand Esteemed Lo>'al Knight by the Gnmd Lodge BFO Elks at its I02nd session in Dallas; and that JOE McCABE's daughter u-as recently married. 
Just before going to press we learned of the tragic death by drowning of LEO KEATING's son, Daniel, in a boating accident at Lake Seneca, 
N.V. Wc all join in extending our sincere sj-m­psuhy to Leo and his family. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 

WALTER W. BUCKLEY of Granby, Conn, wlio has three daughters, still travels considerably throughout the country for Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. He recently saw GENE CONNELLY '32 while visiting New York. JAMES P. DANEHY has just completed his 15th year as a member of the Notre Dame faculty. His oldest daughter, Mrs. MAURICE MAYNARD of Pound Ridge, N.Y., was recently selected as Mrs. New York Stale. Peggy and her husband, an ND alumnus of the Class of '57, have eight children. 
Supreme Court Justice MICHAEL D. O'HARA, a member of ^lichigan's highest appellate courts, was recently in New York for a judicial conference. He left to go back to Lansing by ^\'ay of KD ivilli the expectation of taking in tlic Army-ND game. JOHN \l. CRIM.NHNS recently left Kop­pers and is now practicing law in Pittsburgh. His new address is 1601 Oliver BIdg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222. We recently heard from Father JIM DONNELLY CSC, pastor of Holy Family Parish in Copperas Cove, Tcx. Jim \vorks hard ia tlic mission vincj'ards. 
XLAURICE DEWALD spent his \-acation in San Jose, Calif. \'isiting with his son who is an accountant with Peat, ^fa^vich and Mitchell. While traveling in California, Mauric \'isitcd all the famous coast resorts. Maurie expected to be on campus to sec the Purdue and Army games. JOHN F. BREEN of Detroit writes that he, TED FELDMAN and ER.\IE GARGARO were at the Detroit ND affair given for the incoming fresh­men and their parents. Ted Fcldman continues to practice law in Detroit and Ernie's interest in ND is stronger than ever now that his boy is a' sophomore. Jack tells us that both he and JERRY .^SHLEY just became grandparents again. Jerry's son is married to Stan Musiars daughter and their recent happy event was twins. 
ARTHUR BECVAR of Louis\ille continues as manager of industrial design for the General Elec­trie Major Appliances Div> Hts interest in educa­tion continues. He is on the Arts & Letters Ad­visory Council at ND; member of the board of trustees of Bellarmine Col.; member of the Presi­dent's Advisory Council of UrsuHne Col.; and active in the cliemistrj* program at Holy Spirit School in Louis\iIlc. Recently, RONALD KRONE­WITTER retired from his post as superintendent of the Mishawtika sewage disposal plant. Ron held the position since the plant opened in 1952. 
WILLIAM STEWART is now residing at 57 Country Club Dr. S., Las Vegas, Ncv. 89109; WILLI.AM F. WITTENBURG's new address Is PO Box 86, St. James, Mich. 49782; EDWARD ACKERMAN's new address is 906 N. Mcnio Ave., Sioux Falls, S.D. 571(M; JOE McCABE's new business address is 20 N. Wacker Dr., Cliicago 60606. 
Recently, Father L/\WRENCE G. BROESTL CSC was transferred to Austria in connection with the Notre Dame program at Innsbruck: Pension Stcinbock, 6071 Aldrana bcl, Innsbruck, TjToI, Austria. 
Mr. and Xfn. PATRICK CRO^VLEY of Wil­mette. 111., founders of the Christian Family Movement, received the University's 1966 Lactarc Medal in ceremonies held at the University fol­lowed by a reception given for lliera at the Morris Inn early In October. The Class of *33 salutes the Crowlcys as recipients of the University's highest award and as the first couple to receive the coveted Laetare Medal. 
As the October meeting of tlic ND Club of New York we saw GEORGE ROHRS. BILL LYNCH. ANDREW BOTTI and ^L-\RSHALL iicAVENEY. 
JOHN A. HOYT, JR. Gillespie & O'Connor, 342 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y. 10017 

1934 
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD 523 W. Hillsdale, San Mateo, Cal. 94403 

ALUMNI IN THE
Congrats NEWS 
Howard V. Phalin '28, a member of the Uni­versity's Lay Board of Trustees, became chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Field Enterprises Educational Cor­poration in October. With headquarters in Chicago's Merchandise Mart Plaza, Phalin heads a worldwide organization recognized as one of the leading publishers of reference works in the United States. Among Field Enterprises' publications is the World Book Encyclopedia. 
Edward C. Duffy '30, executive vice-president of the Long Island Lighting Co., Mineola, N.Y., was elected in October to the Board of Directors of the American Gas Associa­tion, the gas industry's national trade or­ganization. A mechanical-engineer graduate from the University, Duffy worked in the engineering and construction departments of Consolidated Edison of New York prior to joining the Long Island Lighting Co. as a mechanical design engineer in 1942. 
Dr. Richard E Flood '37 of AVeirton was in­stalled as the 100th president of the West Virginia State Medical Association in early fall. A general practitioner and surgeon. Dr. Flood received his BS from the University in biology, and his MD from Jefferson Med­ical College of Philadelphia in 1941. He also is coroner of Hancock County and serves on the Tribunal of the Steubenville (Ohio) Diocese. 
Robert L Scally '39 became second vice-president for group and pension sales for Mutual of New York late this summer. In his new position he is responsible for the company's national network of 21 group and pension offices. Scally joined MO? ^ in 1955 after 15 years in tlie group insur­ance field, and later advanced to manager of group insurance for the company's Great­er New York and Eastern regioiK. 
David J. Curtin '44, vice-president in charge of corporate communications for Xerox Corporation, in November was made re­sponsible for the company's advertising and sales promotion activities. He now heads the company's publicity efforts which have produced a number of award-winning TV programs. Prior to joining Xerox in 1957, Curtin was associated with the Rogers and Porter advertising agency in Rochester. 
V. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 19«« DECEMBER 
slopoi-er visit at the Windy City. At the same from JACK MOULDER who is teaching 5th At next year's South-time we spoke with BUCKY JORD.\N of the grade lin South Bend's school sj-stem. '^Greatest em Cal game (Oct. Tribune staff, who still claims he can run the 100 satisfaction ever!" he said. Jack announced the 14), we arc planning in 20 seconds. Delaney says tliat BOB WEAVER wedding of his eldest daughter, Sharon Anne, last a Class gct-togcthcr— is all set to be at the 30lh and will have a legal August to L.AWRENCE FIN.VERAN '63. Tliey probably at the Morris ofiice set up to handle all claims. will be living in Sweden where Larry is in the 
1935 
Inn. Friends with ^-ou will be welcome and more detailed plans will appear in a later issue. P.AUL FERGUS and the South Bend contingent will do a fine job for >^u. ANDY MAFFEI, who wns in for the Army game with WALT MATUS, is pro­moting a gathering of those interested for the Georgia Tech game in Atlanta next year. 
Members of the Class back for the first games 
were BOB ROGERS, TOM FLY.VN% BILL 
MILLER, BILL BER.VBROCK, DUKE WAL­
TERS, FR.-VXK HOL.-\H.-\X, PAUL GUAR.NT­
ERI, JOHX NEESOX, CHUCK BRAGG and 
PAT FISHER. There were probably some we 
missed. 
Heard PHIL PURCELL and ELI SH.\HEEX 
had health bouts but now arc doing ^vcll. RAY 
BRODERICK is a candidate for lieutenant gov­
ernor in Pcnns\l\-anb on the Republican ticket. 
Hope one of our g^ys breaks our losing tradition 
in running in second spots. AHLLER tried hard. 
KURT SIMOX has a wholesale food operation 
here worth seeing when you come to town. You 
would be most welcome, Kurt informs me. 
The latest list of Ctass of '35 sons at Xoire 
Dame shou^ PAT, JOE and MIKE FISHER, 
NE.\L and RICHARD ROGERS, ROBERT 
KEEFE, PETER XEESOX, P.\UL GUARXIERI, 
PHIL KRUG and CHARLES MAHER. Any 
missing from this list? Please adnsc me. 
FRANK T. McGUIRE V.P.—Special Projects, Notre Dome, Ind. 46556 

1936 
LARRY PALKOVIC 301 Mechanic St., Orange, NJ. 07050 

1937 
^Ve should he making plans no\^' to attend the 30th Reunion on June 3 10 nnd II next \car The news 
has been timing in Imva a fetv <.orreai>ondbnls after sending out 50 cards and letters. 
ED REARDOX of the ^fcGee Clan \-isitcd in New York and the East, XU and Army games, and enclosed a picture of a star halfback pla>-ing for Rockhurst where brother Tom and TOM HIGGIXS set all scholastic records. Dr. THOM.AS CARXEY, senior VP of research & development of G. D. Scaric & Co., was named to the board of directors. His picture appeared locally in XYC before the Tribune went under. We checked up on PAUL FOLEY in the advertising news articles under the firm of McCann-Erickson—flannel suits and all that. In Washington, DC we \Tsitcd with Senior Counsel BILL FOLEY of the House Judi­dar>' Comm. and made the grand tour of the House of Rep. Ei-cn though coming from X.J., Bill has circled his calendar and notified the legal boj-s that he already lias plans for next June. 
I visited in Burlington, Iowa, the home fort of operations of DICK DELAXEY. Midwest Bisciut Co., and also iiis brother FR.-\XK '38, Dick and wife Jane now have the family all over the coun­try and just ramble around Burlington. This seems to be standard for the parents of *37. Dick met PHIL WELSH, Assoc, of American Railroads, while in Washington, DC and Phil reported a full household of nine (last count). He is way ahead of the "Oilman" from Chicago, HARRY BALDWIN, whom we talked to last year on a 
WIL KIRK, the Texas banker (and Eastern farmer), reported ready to work and is contacting the SW lads. Wll's family is also widespread. He has nothing to do but work for the bank and a good, big Reunion. GORDO.V .MURPHY finally gave up Wyoming banking and is now VP and manager for Crocker-Citizens Xatl. Bank in South San Francisco, Calif. Murphy look a three-week trip through Africa last vcar. While waiting at Kennedy Airport, he met PARKER SULLIVAX, the last Class prcxy, who was making a visit back East after transferring plione company operations to the West Coast. BOB WILKE and Parker were neighbors in Westchester County, X.Y. to­gether with BILL FALLO.N* and JOHN .^L\R­BACH. Wilke can stiU hit the golf ball. When I played at '*Wingcd Foot," I noticed Bob*s handi­cap u-as two, and Fallon was dou*n to a 12, which isn't too bad for a tennis player (with water on the knee). 
BOB CROXIX, Knickerbocker Roofing, Chicago, 
was named senior volunteer of the year at the 
annual a»-ard luncheon of the State Street Council 
and Volunteer Bureau in Chicago, His \"oIunteer 
work is with the bo>-s of the Robert Taylor Homes 
in the Windy City. 
The Ciril .Mr Patrol, Indiana Wing, reports 
that Rev. CLEMENT C. FU-XKE CSC lias been 
awarded the Red, White and Blue Service Ribbon 

by tlic patrol with appropriate citation noted. 
The medical staff also made ncwis: Dr. CHARLES 
A, HUFNAGEL, professor of suisery and director 

of experimental surgical lab at Gcorgetox^ii Med­
ical School and chief of cardiovascular surgery at 
Georgetown U. Hospital, was awarded an hon­
orary doctor of science degree at Georgetown 
at the last commencement. 
Dr. BOB GEHRES passed away July 30 in Sac­

ramento, Calif. Bob liad suffered a heart attack 
six months earlier and was just getting back in the 
s%%-ing of practice again. His wife, Agnes, and 
two children survive. Bob had plans for making 
his Reunion at Columbia in NYC and also our 

30lh as he had never made a Reunion over 
the years. 
JOHN McKEX'X'A, our trackman, passed away 
this spring from complications after an auto 

accident. Jack coached at our high school in 
N.J. and taught in some of the sj-stcms. 
BILL SH.-\RP also passed auay. Bill hailed 

from X.J., then went to Kansas City with In­
ternational Paper Co. He had just been East 

for a visit and made a phone call to me. Dr. 
JIM DOWNEY and Bill were close friends and 
neighbors in the Kansas City area. I have no 
details on Bill's death to report. 
JERRY CLAEYS has his local committee all 
lined up for the Reunion and they have laid the 

groundwork for one of the best Reunions that ever 
hit the University. Never having lived in Howard 
Hal! it will be an experience. Probably one step 
better than Bronson or Sorin. Maybe by this time 

Father NED JOYCE will have air-conditioning 
installed for the country club Class of *37. 
Tlie journalists of the Class will be writing our flycts so you \rill be getting the professional boost. J.ACK GILLESPIE (Mobil Oil, NYC), PAUL FOLEY, BUCK JORD.-\N, CY STROK-ER—all ivlth their ^f/io/oj/iV-training will be our contributors. AL SCHWARTZ, BOBBY SIEG­FRIED. R.\LPH CARDIN.-\L and PAUL SHEEDY will also be drumming up the invasion for next June. We have at least three more publications to write for so keep the news cuiming to Andover, N.J. 
JOSEPH P. QUINN 
P.O. Box 275, Lake Lenape, Andover, N.J. 07821 
At least BOB SHAY heeded my plea to phone when in town. We spent an evening 

1938 
reminiscing when he 

was in South Bend calfing on ad accounts for the 
Public Works magazine out of Chicago with which 
he's been for over 20 years. Bob has a son and 
daughter. HENRY J. "BUD" .MACKIN called 
from Dixon, III. looking for tickets. Found out 
that he has a son, Mike, who's a senior at ND. 
Received two cards out of the ALUMNUS. One 
music recording business. LBJ sent them congrat­ulations. Jack has a son, Tom, still at home. JOHN PLOUFF sent the other card accusing me of leaving the phone off the hook on football Weekends. John succeeded in i-isiting DO.V HICKEY, CHUCK SWEENEY and NELSON VOGEL during the Purdue game weekend. .-Vi the same time I saw P.AUL NOW.AK up from Treas­ure Isbnd, Fla. to enroll his son as a junior. Also saw PAUL HUGHES from Flint, Mtch.. and RAY MEYERS' %rife with Evelyn and CHARLEY BOROWSKI at both Army and Purdue games. Ray had to stay in Chicago for a wedding and a clinic and was no doubt pacing through both. 
My wife, Hclene, and I just got back in time for the Purdue game from a two-week trip to Venezuela, Trinidad, the Virgin Isbnds and Puerto Rico where wc attended CFM conventions, lived with families and discovered the relation of rum to rumba. On the way we dropped off number-one son, PAT '66, at Miami Law School and stayed overnight at Jo and S.\M lAWLERs in Jacksonville. Sam and Jo are the epitome of Southern hospitality in every form—neat or on the rocks. .Actually, we used the occasion for a practice run for our 30th Reunion just two springs auay. We suggest the rest of you '38ers start training. While in Miami wti stayed at BER.VARD FEE.NEY's '39 and had a nice visit with CHARLIE CALLAHAN. Betty gave us the deluxe tour of their new home which included a large trophy room almost big enough to hold all Charlie's mementoes. 

J.ACK SCOTT, ye o?e retired Marine genera/ and former mayor of South Bend, now editor and publisher of the Lafayette, Ind. Journal Courier, sent me an article he wrote of a labyrinth air trip he took during the air strike from Lafayette to Boise, Idaho where he has another newspaper. He went via Montreal, Phoenix, Salt Lake City, Regina, Canada and Great Falls, Mont. Jack spotted ex-G man H.ARVEY FOSTER, now an American Airlines VP, at O'Harc and got the Montreal leg of his journey scratched. Moral of the story: it pays to know your classmates—and geography. Question: With two papers how come Jack didn't know about the strike? 
Also in the news \\as FRANK ITZIX' •who \vcnt through Marine PLC training at Quantico with Jack and me. Frank was named professor in the Jane Addams Grad School of Social Work at the 
U. of Illinois at the Urbana campus. LOUIE ANDERSO.V had a visit !rom Dr. DE.N.XY EMM.ANUEL of Ottumwa, Iowa when Denny brought his son back for his junior year at ND. Denny also has a daughter who is a nun, another daughter who has a master's degree and two more bo)*s at home. 
After years of silence, my olc roomy in -101 Badin HaU, JOE WEHRLE of Punxsutawney, wTote and it was sad news indeed. His wife, Ruth, died of lancer last April. They have a son, Joe Jr. Joe plans to make the Michigan Stale game so I hope to see him there. Another sad note came from H.AL L.ANGTON saving that BERNARD WASSEL died last April. ' Bernard, who was in AB, lived at 171 Ancrson, Potts­viUe, Pa. 
Let's remember our departed friends in our prayers and also those living whenever we have a chance to drop them a line or to visit them so that our regrets will be fewer and our joy greater. 
BURNIE BAUER 1139 Western Ave., Sooth Bend, Ind. 46625 
The latest warning from the editor to the effect that Class col­umns must be restrict­

1939 
ed to 1,000 words most 

assuredly was not directed at THIS secretary. 
Come on, you area reps! Scrounge up sonic 
material so I'll have something to pass along. 
FRANCIS J. MASTROPIETRO, from Auburn, 

N.Y. sent the following: "Married to the former Mary Jane Vasco since June 6, 1938; three daugh­ters, Rosemary lVaIto«, Marguerite Wright—both schoolteachers—and Maria Christine, a seventh-grader. Operating family business, Xlichaels Res­taurant, now in its 34th year. Member of the 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 
CAPT. OF THE INDEPENDENCE 
John Fox '3S 
lonN Fox '38, captain, US Navy, 
' commands a modern-day floating 
city whose statistical portfolio 
would stagger the average citizen. 
Only superlatives adequately de­
scribe the monstrosity of a ship 
that is his. Yet, for the same lay­
man, it suffices merely to say that 
the effectiveness of Captain Fox's 
command is a major reason for the 
United States' naval superiority 
today. For Jack Fox is the captain 
of the aircraft carrier, USS Inde­
pendence. 
An accounting major from the College of Commerce, John always had the desire to become a naval aviator. When his initial plans to enter aviation school were thwarted by the long wait for training, he reverted to his accounting back­ground and assumed a position with a firm in Valparaiso, Ind. In 1940, however, the desire to fly reasserted itself and he launched his naval career as a cadet at NAS Pensacola. ^Vings-earned, John be­came a flight instructor during the early periods of ^V^V II before mov­ing on to the Pacific battle front. 
Giving credence to the old adage "join the Navy and see the world," Capt. Fox's career is a record of increasingly important assignments which have carried him around the world. Following a year of post­graduate study in naval intelligence he was assigned as assistant naval attache in Spain, a tour of duty which lasted until 1952. ^Vith the conversion to jet aircraft he was "checked out in jets" and deployed once again with the Pacific fleet as a jet squadron commander and later as a member of the carrier division commander's staff. After a tour of duty as both student and 
staff member at the Naval War 

ALUMNUS NOVEMBER \966 DECEMBER 
College the career officer was off to sea again as executive officer on the USS Bon Homme Richard. Back in Washington in 1961 he was promoted to the rank of captain and assigned to intelligence work with the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
With his first command of the 
USS Fort Snelling he was to face 
the responsibilities of decision and 
action which qualified him for his 
present post. The LSD deployed 
with the Atlantic Fleet's amphibi­
ous force during the crisis in the 
Dominican Republic. Under Capt. 
Fox's command the Fort Snelling 
controlled the initial landings of 
the Marines and was instrumental 
in the evacuation of civiUan 
personnel. 
On August 25 he assumed com­
mand of the USS Independence, 
one of the largest ships afloat. The 
importance of this assignment is 
best understood in light of the mon­
umental statistics that surround it. 

Chosen from among the several thousand captains qualified for the post he commands one of only seven carriers in the super-carrier class. The Independence, or Big "I" as it is often referred to, grosses 80,000 tons, is longer than three football fields and towers over 20 stories above the waterline. As CO he is ultimately responsible for the lives and safety of a crew of 4,000 which numbers 150 officers and 160 pilots. 
Captain Fox is the first to admit that the operation of the Indepen­dence is not a one-man job. But surprisingly, the average age of hb more than 3,700 enlisted man crew is less than 20 years. It is of these sailors that Captain Fox speaks with particular pride: "There is no greater satisfaction for a com­manding officer than to see a young American boy fix a piece of the most complicated electronic equip­ment, troubleshoot a jet engine, or repair a piece of heavy machinery. Their performance under the most trying of circumstances can only create an admiration toward them that is impossible to describe." AVhen in home port, which is cur­rently Virginia Beach, Va., Capt. Fox is responsible for his wife and young daughter, Pamela, 2J4 years old. Mrs. Fox, the former Geral­dine Twiford, was a teacher in Japan when she and the captain met in 1957. They were married several years later and now reside at 4217 Hermitage Rd., Virginia Beach. 
Ca>-uga County Catholic School Boaid and com­masioncr on Auburn Boan] of EducatioD." Fiaulc states he would like to hear from some of his Dillon and .Lyons buddies and from any of his Liberal Arts classmates. He extends a warm welcome to any of us passing throi^h. The latch is out at the intersectioa of routes NY No. 5 and U.S. No. 20. Thanks for your helping to fill the column. Will plan to accept your invite when returning from the Navy game. 
Some new locations to report: WlLLlAlhf E. BRUSE, 710 Hickory Ur., St. Joseph, Mich.; Dr. FRANCIS ELIOT DART, Dept. of Physics, U. of Oregon, Eugene, Ore. 97400; BERXAKD S. "BARNEY" GOOD, 1373 Jefferson, Apt. 17, Memphis, Tenn. 3810»; RAYMOND ARTm m KANE, 3950 Lake Shore Dr., Chicago 60613; Or. JOHN A, KOENIGSHOFF, 65 S. Front St., Co­lumbus, Ohio 43215; JOHN EARL RYAN, 1460 Flamingo Way, Sunnyvale, Calif. 94086; and Dr. DANIEL TOBIN, 2425 AlUed Dr., Madison, Wis. 53711. 
An old Irish wish, "May a waim breeze caress your brow, and a soft breeze be always at your back" should be paraphrased to read '*May a it'hirlmnd stir your pen and a nationwide gale bring me mail." . . . And away we go! 
JOSEPH E. HANNAN 
1804 Greenwood Dr., 
South Bend, Ind. 46614 
It was most unfor­tunate that we did not have any Class news last issue but I had no 

1940 
neu3 and didn't have 
time to make any phone calls. Howe\'er, I do 
promise to have some news in every future issue, 
but I do need your help. 
BILL COLEMAN wrote, ". . . had a most 
unusual and pleasant golf match with JOHS 
KELLEHER and WILLIS WALKER at the beau­
tiful Inverness course in Toledo. After our golf 
game w^e went over to Dr. John*s for dinner. He 
and his \%'ife, Rosemary, have a most magnificent 
home to house tlicir nine children. We had a 

great time talking about our da>-s at Notre Dame 
and our many friends. WIL WALKER is one of 
Toledo's outstanding insurance counselors , . . and 
a mighty dangerous golfer, with a nine handicap.** 
Thank you. Bill, every bit of news is welcome. 
Received word that ED HART has been ap­pointed manager of the newly formed communi­cations products marketing department of the RCA Broadcast and Communications Products Div. Ed also wTote to say, **In June we went out for the graduation of our son, COREY. Ran into TOM MCCARTH Y who aUo had a son graduating that day. No doubt there were other fellows from *40 around but dtdrCt meet any. Next year we will be doing it again, but 'across the road* as our oldest daughter will graduate from St. Mary*s." It is good to receive these short notes, Ed, as I appreciate any help I get. 
TONY POTENZIANI wrote an interesting let­ter. **Aftcr 26 years I am finally overcoming that little bit of awkivardncss that for some unex­plainabic reason prevented my writing to our Class secretary. I must admit that I eagerly Icxik forward to receiving the ALUMNUS and then hurriedly turn to the 1940 Class column to read about my classmates—few of whom I have seen since graduation. I sec and talk with CEC JORDAN regularly. I am happy to report that Cec is successful and happy. He and I are having lunch with our Notre Dame sons toflay (Aug. 31). Mike Jordan will be a junior this year and my son, Frank, will be a senior in premed. Both boys live in Alumni Hall. "I visited JIM METZ­LER in Kansas City sc\-eral times and I must say he is ageless—he appears exactly the same as the wheeler and dealer on the campus of our student daj-s. LOU REILLY %%Tote that he is planning his retirement from the Navy this year and is looking for a business connection. If anyone has any good ideas Lou would appreciate hearing from vou. (Cdr. L. W. Rcilly. Navy Exchange Officer, NAS, Norfolk, Va. 23511.) 
"I visited JOE CUMMINGS in his New York ofiice and am happy to report that Joe is a most successful accountant and in the top echelon of Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. Tm looking for­^vard to a \-isit with DON GILLILAND in Phoe­nix sometime this winter. ERNIE TIMPANI and his family stopped by twice in his travels. In addi­tion to being a renowned criminotogist, Ernie is 
25 

THE ANNUAL EDITORIAL COMMITTEE MEETING Week; HAROLD WILLIAMS MO, Sunday editor of The of This Week magazine turned into on Irish roily Baltimore Sun; JOHN PATTERSON Ml , managing when five of the meeting's 30 parfidpanfs celebrated editor of The PiHsburgh Pjress; and BOB DUNNE M3, the announcement of ND*s number-one ranking: editorial promotion director of This Week. Further­PAUL NEVILLE M2, executive editor of Buffalo Eve­more, all are "Doc Cooney*s boys" as graduates 
ning News; SAM NIHLD Ml, vice-president of This in journalism. 
also a very successful family man—seven beautiful 
children. MIKE CORGAX was here several times 
wliile he \%*as coaching in Wyoming. Xo^v that 
he*s in the 'big league,* Nebraska, Im travels take 
him au-ay from us- WcVc hoping to entice Mike 
permanently our way \\-ith a head coacliing job. 
This is all for now. Bob. I hope more of our 
classmates report in to you. Please convey my 
best u-ishcs to all and that each of them has an 
open invitation to visit us in our desert land of 
cncliantment." Tony's address is 2808 Central 
Ave., S.E., Albuquerque, N.M. 
DICK. AMES wrote a most interesting letter? 
his address is 1960 Bcllaire St., Denver, Colo. 
80220. He is the second member of our Class who 
accomplished the often-delayed good intention of 
writing. Dick •writes, *'Onc of my great disap­
pointments was missing last year's 25ih Reunion. 
I wanted to be there. I read evcrvthing that I 
could find about it, checking the lists of namcS 
of those who signed up. I i^-as hit \tjih a bit of 
nostalgia as I read cacli name. ^lost of the names 
had a face that would flash through my mind 
and many a fond memory was relived. I even 
wTote my old roommate, DICK BURKE, and 
asked him to write me a follow-up on the occasion. 
I'm going to get back to the campus this fall for 
the Army game. The last time I was there was in 
1955 when my dear wife was still lining. I lost 
her in Oct., 1959, but we (the family) held to­
gether until now when the attrition of growing up 
is beginning to take its toll. 
BUD RAFALSKE has an annual one-day job. 
He is in charge of the Fourth of July fireworks at 
the Ft. Mitchell Country Club outside of Cin­
cinnati. For the last nine years he has been de­
signing and executing the displa>-s. Bud Is a cer­
tified public accountant and operates Rafabke & 
Associates In Cincinnati; he and his family live in 
Ft. Wright, Ky. JOHX G. "GOOBER" KDR­
BECK of 1204 N. Polk St., Little Rock, Ark. used 
an ALUMNUS card to ask the whereabouts of 
OTTO C. "OLLIE'* STEGM.-\IER and JOHX B. 
"BIG JACK" WILLMAXX. GEORGE J. Mc-
MORROW PhD *40 is chairman of the department 
of philosophy and theology at Nazareth College. 
He recently wrote an article, **On Behalf of the 
Individual Conscience,*' for their alumnae maga­
ane. 
Please iccp the iicw3 coming and note my new 
address. 
ROBERT G. SANFORD 
233 W. Cenfral Ave. 
Lombard, III. 60148 

1941 
JAMES F. SPELLMAN Spellman & Madden, 342 Madison Ave., Nev/ York, N.Y. 10017 
Gentlemen: The cele­bration year is fast upon us. In six montlis tlie gnind 25ih-Ycar Class Re­
1942 
union will be held on campus. The dates are June 9, 10 -md II, and we're looking for 100 percent attendance, you will near more of this later, but to fill you in now Cbss President JIM 0*XE.'\L has worked up a committee to try to have maximum attendance at the Reunion. STEVE GR.\LIKER of Decatur, III. and JOHN MA­LOXE of business school fame at Notre Dame are co-chairmen. Because our Class Is spread all over the country, there will be regional "attendance promoters." To date thcv arc: MICHAEL J. CARR, Indianapolis; THOMAS F. DEGXAN, Wilmington; JAMES P. DOYLE. Davenport; J.-\MES J. FAYETTE, South Burlington, Vt.; AUGUSTIN S. HARDART JR, Larchmont, N.Y.; THOMAS A. HEXNIGAN JR, Scotisdale, Ariz.; LA\VRE.\CE J. KELLEY, Houston; CHARLES 
J. KIRBY, New Rochcllc; P.AXn, B. LILLIS, Hinsdale, 111.; FR.\NCIS J. POLLXOW JR, St. Louis; DANIEL R. SHOUVLIN JR, Springfield, Ohio; Dr. LEO V. TURGEON JR, Los Angeles; and THO.MAS J. WALKER, Ft. Lauderdale. 
In preparing plans for the weekend's festivities, the Reunion Committee would like for all of you to searcli your scrapbooks, closets, trunks and other depositories of memorabilia for pictures you may have from oiu- days at Notre Dame. TTiey can be of fellow classmates, priests, professors, the cam­pus or of any academic, social or sporting e\'ents. These ^rill be assembled for a display in our reunion residence hall. Anyone having such photo­graphs is asked to send tlicm directly to ^ m 0*Neal (D'.-Vrcy Advertising Co., Inc., 430 Park Avenue, New York 10022) who Is compiling the collection. Jim, of Course, will handle them with great care and insure their safe return. 
And now to the news of the Class. A news item taken from the financial pages of the Chicago Sun-Ttmes, Oct. 4, indicates that "PHILIP J. LUCIER is the father of U clilldren and is re* sponsible, he figures, for a total of 44 years of college education. Lucier Is president of Conti­nental Telephone Corp. of St. Louis, now ranked fourth in the independent telephone industry. The company incorporated De c 16, I960, with 2,000 telephones in service. Since then, by acquisition, the firm has 635,000 telephones in 36 cities. It has assets of $350 million, 23,000 stockholders and 12 million shares of common stock outstanding with a market \-alue of better than $265 million. In 1965 Continental had re^'cnucs of $64 million 

and 1966 should hit $81 million. Congratulations 
to Phil on the fine job he's done. 
As wc previously rrporicd, TOM TEARNEY 
passed away earlier this year-A group of friends 
has established the "Tom Tcamey Memorial 
Fund" to pro\ide for the education of his three 
children. Contributions would be appreciated, and 
ask tliat you mail your clicck to Hon. DANIEL 
J. McNAMARA, c/o Civic Center, Chicago 60602. Col. JOHN A. SHEEDY Is the new chief of research In the US Anny Medical Research and Development Command in Washington, DC. ED­WARD J. MONAHAX has been named manager of the package development div. of R. J. Re>Ti­olds Tobacco Co. where he will be responsible for design and development of packaging for tobacco products and for food products of the firm's subsidiary-, Pcnick and Ford. M.AURICE KELLY who lives in Pittsburgh was recently given the new title of coordinator of communIt>* relations scr\iccs, Aluminum Co. of .A.merica. He advises that BILL FALLOX has retired after 20 years of Navy service and is with a consulting firm in San Frandsco. The Very Rev. Stephen Gul>'ass5', pastor of St. John's B>'zantinc Church of Parma, Ohio, father of VIC GULYASSY, passed avoy in 
January. Vic Is on the Cleveland ND Club's board of governors and ts still practicing law there. 
That's it for now. Remember, only sue more montlis until our Silver Anniversary Reunion rolls around. Mark j-our calendars now. 
WILLIAM M. HICKEY 
P.O. Box 8640A, Chicago, 
III. 60680 
One letter and four cards received—a bo­nanza! It only took a ycarJ Letter from JIM 
1943 
MCELROY (Mutual Broadcasting System, Chicago): "Tlie Class of '43 had a fair turnout for UND Xight but it was not as large a group as wc had expected. In addition to m^^f, among those who did attend were GUS BURKE, FRED GORE, JACK GRIFFIX, BOB KUIPERS , CLAIR LAMBERT, BILL Mc-CAUGHEY, ED MURRAY, VERX PELLOU­CHOUD, RAY SCHOOXOVEN and BILL SUL­LIVAN. DICK AfcHUGH who spent some time with the Class in school also visited with us dur­ing the evening. FRANK KAISER drove 100 miles to attend. Also attending, but at other tables, were JOHN SPECHT and JACK BARRY. JOE KEENAN, usually a regular at all of our sessions, had to back out at the last moment due to an illness in the family, DOX POTTER could not make it—he and his wife left a few days earlier for three weeks in Europe. HOWARD MARLOW was another traveler (Sec. note: Mar­low was the subject in a recent Chicago Tribune photo article about suburbanites returning to down­town apartment dwelling), Howard left that day for San Francisco and a visit with his serviceman son. This was a diangc in plans. Earlier he had planned to go to Europe to see him. I also had another pleasant visit with BOB ROGERS in St. Paul. Bob was about to take some time off from his normal pursuits—placing golf and watching the 
Twins—to go fishing in Canada. Once in a while 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 
he docs sell some insurance. JIM MAHER is still 
in Riris for IBM but has a son and a daughter 
at college in the states." 
A later note from reporter McElroy to the 
Alumni Office states that the luncheon group which 
began many years ago continues to function. 
Furthermore they arc now tr>ins to form a golf 
outing. AH the aforementioned Class of M3 ^vho 
attended the UN D Night and who also attend 
the Rocknc A^%*ards dinner will participate in the 
golf outing. The only additional name I note 
for golf is ED HAXRAHAN. Also, suburbanites 
JIM FORD, DAN STEW/\RT and BOB RAFF 
hope to join. 
STAN MURRAY, 1531 Palm Ave., Winter 
Park, Fh»., postcards that he is scr\'ing as direc­
tor and physical therapist at the North Brc%'ard 
Rehabilitation Center, TitU5\iIJe, Fla. Slan has 
four children—all in grammar school. BOB 
C\RVER. 2309 Grand View Ave., Cleveland 
Heights, Ohio, also used the ALUMNUS postcard 
to note appro^'al of the new ALUMNUS format. 
Bob is associate professor of sociology- at John Car­
roll U. Carver says there are a few NDcrs on 
the faculty. Grandpa DICK KELLY, 123 S. 
20th St., Tcrre Haute, Ind., wrote that grand­
daughter Bridget is the apple of his eye. Another 
Kelly daughter attends Aquinas Col. in Grand 
Rapids ^vhcrc DICK McCORMICK has been act­
ing as a sort of stepfather. 
HOWARD MARLOW has been appointed comptroller of the International Har\'cstcr Co.'s Solar Div. in San Diego. NcW chairman of the division of humanities at the Stale University Col. at Gcncsco, N.Y. is Dr. GER/\LD SMITH who has been a professor of English there. KENNETH 
B. SCHOEN has been named a Knight of St. Gregory. BILL MIDDENDORF postcards from W.xshtngton, DC: "Took Bill Jr. back to ND where he is a prc-med student. Saw BOB PADESKI and BILL DVORAK who were en­rolling sons. Dvorak said WALT KELLY and his son were there, too." (Special note from Class sccz Have those lads look up my daughter who won a scholarship to Barat Col., Lake Forest, III.) 
JACK WIGGINS 
5125 Briggs Ave., 
LaCrescenta, Cal. 91014 
It \ras a plcxsiire. in­deed, to visit the cam­pus recently and to see firsthand the tre­
1944 
mendous changes that have token and arc taking place. It really is amazing, even in the short time since the last Reunion, to observe what has been done. 
Perhaps name tags should be the order of the 
day for everj'one on campus on a football week­
end. Certainly more than eight '44crs attended 
the Army game; yet, unfortunately, your secretary 
saw no more. The first encounter was with TOM 
ROLFS on the expressway entering Chicago. His 
distinctive Y-605 Wisconsin license rang a bell. 
For at least 10 miles up to the Drake, it was 
jocke>-ing for position. Perhaps Wisconsin A-34 
has more pull with the gendarmes for Tom lost 
that race. 
Not One but three fast greetings were had with 
JIM MEAGHER—in the Alumni office, at the 
Grotio and on the dining hall steps. The latter 
spot proved to be a convenient meeting place for 
FR.ANK STU.MPF and OMER STUR.\f lA o 
probably were comparing notes on their sons, both 
of whom arc ND students. Unbeknown to him. 
CREIGHTON MILLER wva seen at a distance 
before and after the game. It was almost half 
time before it was discovered that GENE SLEVIN 
^^•a5 seated one row up and three seats over. Then, 
following the game, a brief visit at the Inn was 
had with CHUCK PATTERSON who was on 
campus for the fall Alumni Board meeting. 
JIM MEAGHER, father of nine girts and one boy, is president of Stratton and Tcrsteggc Co. in Louis\'ille. He serves on the board of trustees of Ursulinc College, the board of councilors and is vice-president of Catherine Spauling College, the board of Louisville National Conference of Christians and Jews, and on the Louisville Better Business Bureau board. HENRY ADAM and JAMES THOMAS live across from each other in Parkcrsburg. W.Va. Hank, father of four, is superintendent of the employee relations depart­ment at DuPont*s Washington, W.Va. works. Golf, fishing and drawing cartoons are his hobbies. Jim, also father of four, is president of a Pontiac dealer­ship in Parkcrsbui^, and enjoys golfing and flying in his leisure. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 
The mj-stery of the Great Falls, Mont, doctor 
CJuly-August ALUMNUS) has been solved. It was 
wondered who was the father of eight who en­
joyed fishing, hunting, camping and skiing. He is 
none other than GEORGE EUSTERMAN who 
appears in the upper left picture, page 133, 1941 
Dome. The prize for solving the problem will 
be given at the '69 Reunion, George. 
BEN MAMMINA has been appointed director 
of transportation for the Benton Harbor, Mich, 
school district. Dr. JOHN F. CHRIST^L\N, pro­
fessor of biochemistry, has been named director 
of academic grants and contracts at Loyola U. of 
New Orleans. WILLIAM KOHL Jr. has joined 
the brokerage division of Frank M. Whiston Co., 
a Chicago real estate firm. 
The sympathy of the Class is extended to JOHN 
WITONS whose mother died in late summer. 
"RED JOHN" MURPHY is one among several 
who ^vondcrrd why he had not received a ques­
tionnaire. Unfortunately, mistakes do occur. Be 
assured, John, you arc on the Class roster and 
can prepare to "rise and shine in *69." The 
Murph>-s, parents of two, live in Wilmette. 
BOB SCHRfVM, vice-president of chemical op­
erations for the C. & N. W. Railway, is a recent 
transfer to the Midwest and resides in Winnetka. 
He has several ND men as neighbors but no '-Hers 
among them. Two Houstonians arc OTTO 
MILETI Jr. and JOHN McKENNA. Otto, 
father of five, is owner of a chemical sales com­
pany. Jack, also father of five, is with Humble Oil 
and Refining Co. and is responsible for the overall 
coordination of the supply and disposition of the 
company's gas plant liquids. 
A most interesting letter was received from Bro. GERMAIN FADDOUL CSC who In August left for Baghd.td. Iraq where he will be for the com­ing year. Prior to his departure to Al Hikma U. Brother Germain wtis a member of the faculty of St. Edward's U., Austin, Tex. Before he assumed his assignment at Al Hikma. he planned to visit Beirut, Lebanon and .Alexandria and Cairo, Egypt from where his relatives had come many years ago. Brother has had two books published. The first. Knight IVithout Armor (about St. Thomas Aquinas) now is out of print; the second, just recently off the press. An Angel to Guide Him, is a child's book about Tobias of the Old Tes­tament. 
It hardly seems possible that the year is draw­ing to an end. The older one becomes, the faster the time flies. Now the holida>'s are approaching. Let us hope and pray they will be happy ones for every *44er and his family. May the new year be one filled to overflowing with c%'erything fine and good. 
JOSEPH A. NEUFELD P.O. Box 853, Green Bay, Wis. 54305 
Congratula t i o n s to Jackie and VINCE LAURITA on their newest addition, Kim 
1945 
Marie. It's now two bo>'s and three girls. Vlnce coaches at John Adams in South Bend. The Lauritas w*ere the only class­mates using the tear-out card in the ALUMNUS to pass along news. 
Many of our classmates are moving around the countn": Dr. RAY MICHOLS from Las Vegas to 405 S. Second St., Elkhart, Ind.; JOHN O'DON­NELL from River Forest to 8 Springwood Dr., Princeton June, N.J.; JOHNNY FLEAKA from Youngstown to 3650 Rebecca Dr., Canfield, Ohio; RAY KOPrrUK from New Jersey to 5950 S.W. n2th St.. Miami, Fla.; AL CIZAUSKAS to 2339 Walnut St., Falls Church, Va.,* JOHN KNORR from Canton, Ohio to 2441 Sterling, Windsor Road. Oklahoma City; FRANK MILLER from Charlotte, N.C. to 5635 Old Post Rd., SyK-ania, Ohio; Rev. JOHN VAN WOLVLEAR to U. of Portland; Rev. ROBERT PELTON to St. George's Col.. Santiago, Chile; and Rev. STAN RDZOK to Christ the King, South Bend. 
Rev. CHARLES GILLESPIE has received his master's in history from the American U. in Washington. GENE MOORE has been appointed products dIv. manager of US sales for the Fox­boro Co. 
Our Class news has been very slim in the last few issues partially because of your secretary but more so because of lack of information from members of our Class. The September-October Issue had a number of letters stating opinions on Class notes. Your Class secretary cannot manu­facture ncu-s, so please iiass along information on yourself, your family, graduations, engagcmcDts and marriages. Your classmates will enjoy reading it. 
To our classmates who celebrated wedding anni­veisaries during tJic past year wc extend our heartiest congratulations and best wishes for many more happy years of married life. Twenty years; Jeanette and JIM SCHWEICKERT; Mar^iret and JIM CAMPBELL; Jean and BILL CASTLE; Vir' ginia and Lt. Cot. FRED GOEBELER; Dot and BILL WADDINGTON; Elsa and DAVE WALSH. Fifteen years: Rhea and Dr. FRED MAURER; Pat and FRANK GUINEY; Nancy and Dr. CHARLES SCHWINN; Faye and JIM BRYAN; Phaippa and JOHN GUTHRIE; Marguerite and Dr. PAT MAZZA; Barbara and DAVE MUR­PHY; Ann and HARRY WALTERS. Ten yeais: Ann and JOHN CARON; Mary Lou and JIM DOXXELLY; Margaret and HANK FRAILEY; Dot and FRANK LINEHAN; Mary tarn and DICK WHITING. 
To all a very happy holiday season! 
FRANK M. LINEHAN 
G.E. Co., 600 Main St., Johnson Gty, N.Y. 13790 
1946 
THOMAS E. WARD has been appointed ra­dioTV chairman for the Chicago Crime Commis­sion. RAY WOLLAM has retired as a commander in the Navy and now resides at 215 S. Brockway, F^tinc, III. TOM BURNS wrote that he and his wife Joanne while \-acatIoning in Las Vegas, Ncv. accidentally ran into HARRY WALTERS and his wife, Ann. No doubt the arm muscles got a good workout at the public amusement areas. HARRY S. SUR­K.-\>IP heads his own investment company at 6333 F^ton Ave, St. Louis, Mo. BILL GRANFIELD now li\-cs at 88 Robinson Dr., Wcstfield, Mass. 
PETER P. RICHISKI 60 Robin Place, Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
1947 
VOTE FOR CHARUE 
Our own CHARLIE LAFRATTA is one of eight nominees for dinctor of the Alumai Asst^ ciation. Apart from the fact he graduated with us in H7 his record of achievement dnce then qualifies him in c\'ery respect for the honor. Please support him with your \'ote and your advocacy among your fellow Alumni. Not only <focs our Class deser\'e representation on the Board (CHUCK PATTERSON is a '47 man by degree, but swears his allegiance to the '44 Class) but so does the Richmond, Va. section in which Charlie is a cine and business leader—and Ho. 1 N D man. 
BETTER READ THAN RED 
GERRY HEKKER, soul ml^utdcd. Jousting in your style quuiottc Alind you much if here you're chided For your diatribe despotic? 
Write I this wt h trepidation— Dam your wrath, class column hater ­Grant this fresh abomination Leave, if not your imprimatur. 
SIX AtONTHS TO COME Vou have six months to wait before padtins^ to come back for your 20-year Reunion. But don't wait 'tit then to start planning. Right after the first of the year, we'll be send­ing out a special mailing designed to acquaint you with preliminary on-nte programming and to 
27 
ALUMNI 
IN THE 
Congrats
NEWS 

Milt Picpul '41 this fall joined the coaching staff of Holy Cross College as chief aide to head Coach Mel Massucco. The appoint­ment of the former Notre Dame football great was occasioned by a testimonial din­ner for him in Springfield this summer at­tended by many of New England's leading football coaches and former ND classmates. Highlight of the evening was a presentation to Milt of a captain's chair imprinted with the University's seaL 
William G. Grcif *5I in late September ^vas made corporate vice-president of Mead Johnson and Co. A onetime state legis­lator from Evansville and practicing attor­ney, Greif will be responsible specifically for establishing and heading a new company office in Washington. D.C. Prior to joining Mead Johnson in 1964, Greif was executive director of Evansville's Future, Inc. (Ind.) 
Gerald M. Costcllo '52 of Pompton Pl^ns, N.J., in September was named managing editor of the newly created diocesan news­paper of Paterson. Formerly associated with a number of New Jersey communit}'^ news­papers as a reporter and editor, Costello plans to publish the first edition of the di­ocesan weekly sometime in January. A speech major at Notre Dame, he attended graduate school at Fordham University. 
William F. Noonan '54 of Hazlet, N.J., was elected vice-president of Burson-Marsteller Associates, an intemadonal public relations agency. Noonan, a journalism-degree holder from the University, has been an account supervisor in the agency's New York office since 1964, having joined the firm in 1961. Previously, he sensed for five years on the promotion staff of the Plastics Division of Union Carbide Corporation. 
Michael A. Ward *55 became vice-president for research of Walston & Co. in early fall. Walston, one of the nation's largest securi­ties and investment banking firms, serves investors through 91 offices coast-to-coast and overseas. Ward who earned a BS de­gree in business administration at Notre Dame joined AValston in 1963 and, prior to that time, served as a security analyst with an investment advisory service. 
detcnninc the degree of your interest in the 
June event. 
Look: Those of you who want edification over 

the weekend may have it by the bushel through 
the series of voluntary* tours, exercises, seminars, 
etc., scheduled throughout the weekend. And if 
you prefer to visit, golf, sip a soupcon of sauce 
or so, or sack out, go to it. Just be here. Your 
local committee will neither interfere nor over-plan. 
TWO "POSSIBLES" 

Two of our number have hinted at Reunion attendance—one a new, the other an crstwiiilc, teacher. JIM SHEA, just embarking on his teach­ing career at King's Co!, in Wilkcs-Barrc, Pa., writes: "You can be sure I am looking Xonvard to our 20th Reunion.*' He recently sent $2 for the Class fund and with this later letter tucked in another pair of bills. .Ve there any more like him an>*wherc out there? Our treasury needs a transfusion. Xoting, "Fair chance Vll make Re­union in June," JOHX MAHER used one of the yellow reply cards from tlic ALUMNUS to report from Chula Vista, Calif.: "I visited the campus last April during Easter \'acation time after a business trip to Chicago. I'm Western representa­tive for McGraw-Hill Book Co. after a good many years in teaching and a few in government scr\'icc and journalism. My family numbers three—"two boys and a girl. Thanks to those who prayed for my wife after her unfortunate accident a few years ago. She has recovered remarkably.*' 
GLEAMXGS 
MIKE McFADDEX has been named manager 

of steel industry sales for the International Nickel 
Co,, Inc., in Pittsburgh and MAX SARFF is new 
sales manager of healing oils in the American Oil 
Co.'s Chicago general office. Under a new plan 
conceived by JIM SCHOEX high school students 
attending CCD classes in the Toledo area, receive 
a different lesson from 14 teachers instead of 14 
lessons from a single teacher. Sounds like a sensible 
idea in this era of specialization. 
JACK HOUGHTELI.XC. for the past six yean 

a Miami Nru.'s sports staffer, has been chosen to 
direct publicity for the Orange Bowl committee. 
Dr. JOSEPH P. MURPHY has returned to the 
Casper (Wyo.) Clinic after a two-month period 
of ser%*ice in South Vietnamese civilian hospitals 
under the .AMA Volunteer PIi>'sicians for Vietnam 
program. JACK XOOXAX has been promoted to 
supervisor in the fugitive section of the Chicago 
FBI office. And Rev. CLETUS F. DIRKSEN 
has been transferred from St. Joseph's Col. in 
Rensselaer, Ind. to St. Augustine Church in 
Minster, Ohio. 
HOLY CROSSINGS 
One of our priests and one of our brothers are 

making transoceanic news; the former has already, 
the latter will any day now. 
Re\-. THOMAS B.\RROSSE CSC is >n Rome 

as a member of a recently appointed commission 
to revise the constitution of the Congregation of 
Holy Cross. The rev*isory work is a result of the 
dedsions reached by Vatican II, and reportedly 
may take as long as two years. 
And a note Irom Bro. IV.^X DOLAX CSC 

tlatelined Washington, DC, reads: "Around Christ­
mas time I plan to return to Pakistan to begin 
my 20th year in the missions. . . . Am keeping 
busy helping out here in the Mission oflices and 
in gathering and purchasing things that I plan 
to take back with me. . . . I'm doing my 
Christmas shopping early. There is no end of the 
list of things I must take back with me. . . ." 
Had a delightful hour-long visit with Brother when he was back on campus in the late summer. He filled me in on the problems missionaries are encountering in Pakistan and it was good to visit for even that short a time. Pray for him and all his missionary associates who sacrifice so much for God. 
USE YOUR ROSTERS 

• * . to correspond with classmates in your area to talk up the Reunion. Organize a car pool. Share hitchhiking expenses. Charter a wlilrlyblrd. Anything. 
Also, you'll note a number of names ^vhose mail has been returned and of whom we've temporarily lost track. If any of >'ou know about the where­abouts of any of these missing gentlemen, plcosc drop a post card with the necessary info. 
SEASONAL SALUTE 

Seems the time flies faster every year but here is the end of another year already and «'hcrc arc yesterday's resolutions? Anj-way, from Betty and me to all of you ^^•armcst wishes for your most blessed Christmas ever and for a 1967 brim-
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER }966 DECEMBER 
raws vvSlh happiness and inner peace. And for world peace based on justice, love and liberty let us all pray every day. 
JUNE 
June's the month of weddings And of baseball games exciting But the one tliat looms ahead Is our*n for Reuniting. 
JACK MILES 3218 Bentley Lane, South Bend, Ind. 46615 
Wc really don't need these offbeat suggestions about eliminating Class notes and Reunion activi­des. In fact, we need more nc\%-5 about classmates and longer Reunion weekends. 
I see by the recent edition of the ALUMN'US that our JOE ©"TOOLE, the man of all classes, showed up in the Reunion picture for the Class of '46. For those of >*ou who don't know it, Joe is out there every June for some reunion and in addition to the Class of '48 Reunion he makes four others in between. I guess Joe has his own opinion about these affairs and it is great to be able to do it. 
JOHN A. O'CONNOR is tht editor of the Corp. And still they come: BILL LYSAAS Has been appointed a vice-president of Leo Burnett Co. Inc. where he has been associate creative director. Another wheel—EDWARD DUNBAR has been promoted to the poution of comptroller of the Studebaker Corp. in South Bend. 
CHARLES LIENHART, ^ce-president of the St. Joseph Valley Bank, will assume administrative responsibilities for the bank's operations diirasion, branch division and purchasing and personnel func­tions, while continuing to supervise new construe­tioQ and the bank's present physcal fadlitics. (Charlie, do you have any Kennedy halves?) Bro. ELI PELCHAT CSC was recently honored 
Wc missed the Sep­tember issue of the ALUMNUS because as of the closing dale 
1948 
there was nothing to 
report. That's the way ft goes from time to time 
and I regret it but it is up to you. 
However, the Class of *48 was well covered 
in the June-July issue by GERRY HEKKER. Our 
brother classmate threw the "Green Banana" to 
all Class secretaries because he felt that the CLnss 
notes section ought to be "drastically cut or elim­
inated altogether" because they were "antiquated, 
outdated, poorly wTitten .. . and just a succession 
of who played golf with whom, who met whom" 
cite. These comments were pursued in the Septem­
ber edition by a number of Alumni with a com­
pletely different viewpoint. At the same time, 
Gerry took off on the Reunion weekends being 
Just another "pet project for beer and brawls." 
It is my opinion, and I think it is also the 
opinion of the majority of our Class, that Gerry 
Hckker was speaking for himself only and his 
letter received more notoriety than possibly it 
dcscn'cd. It ivouJd have been better if his beef 
was filed in the circular file as just another gripe 
and the space allotted could have been used for 
more noteworthy comments. As the saying goes, 
*'then:'s one in e\'er>- crowd" these is also **one 
in every Class.** 
I am sure none of us Class secretaries proclaim to be masterful columnists and we don't try to be, but wc think what we are doing is good for Notre Dame and its Alumni. Wc much prefer lo write about what our classmates are doing while they are doing it and not write about what they were doing before they took their last ride. It does take time and effort and those who are interested in Notre Dame and their classmates take time to read these columns probably before they read anjthing else. The Class of *48 is a mixture of several classes that would have been (except for the time) taken away from Notre Dame by WW II. Consequently most men in the Class read not only their own Class new^ but those immediately before and after because they know someone in this general era. At Notre Dame it is not a fraternity association but is an overall zisso­ciation of all Notre Dame men who are held together by a common bond and not a pin, a few Greek letters and a s>-mbo!ic handshake. 
After getting this secretariat, I had a letter from Gerry suggesting that the time-honored aspects of the Reunion weekend be altered in some way that the "dead time used for recovery* from too much ph\Tiical stimulation (alcohol and golf) be used for spiritual and intellectual stimulation." Now if an^-onc wants to make a retreat or a mission they don't Iiavc lo go back lo Notre Dame cver^* five years to do it. There arc affairs like this going on all year round at the parish level, the K of C, etc. and many Alumni partake of it as they sec fit. When the Class Reunion is held every five ^•ears it is looked for%*'ard to by those who have attended them and there is the relaxation and en­jo>Tnent of the togetherness of talking about "what used to be and how it has been since." Whether this is done in a quadrangle over a beer, in the Caf over some coffee or on the links it is most desirable by all concerned. The Reunion weekend is not a tightly planned affair. If you %vant to be in a group talking and drinking beer, you do it. If you want to golf, you golf. If you want to spend the weekend at the Grotto lighting candles, take a few laps around the lake with your beads, read up in the new Library*, water ski on the lake, it is up to you. If you want to "brawl" as Gerry puts it, you can probably find it somewhere in St. Joe County if you want to look for it, but >-ou won't find it on the campus. .A "Reunion" is a "Reunion," and it should be kept that way. If we're going to call it a seminar, a symposium 
or a retreat then we should so designate it. but that isn't what it was meant to be. It is *'fellow­ship" of the real Notre Dame men and the way they like it. 
Delmarva Dialog, the Wilmington, Del., Catholic 
%\'cckly. The paper has been published only a 
year but has already won two awards for excel­
lence in national competition from the Catholic 
Press Assn. BILL MEAGHER and his wife and 
seven children came to South Bend recently for a 
family \'isit and took in the campus. Bill is liv­
ing in Portland, Ore. JOHN CASSIDY Jr. won 
the Democratic nomination for a scat in the 
Illinois House of Representatives. By this edition 
the \'otes should be in and wc wish Jack the best 
of luck. JOSEPH T. DORAN has been promoted 
to associate professor of sociology at Canisius Col­
lege in Buffalo. 
FRED SHEEDY is now living in Haddonficld, 
N.J. following his taking over a new position as assistant to the director of engineering at the Campbell Soup Co. Since this is Fred's first experience in living in the East he is looking forvvard to the ND-Navy game in dose-by Phila­delphia. JIM CARROLL is off again. This time he is in Melbourne, Australia, with Global ^tarine. If he makes the 20th Reunion, he could be the honored one for ha\ing come the farthest. NORM AUERBACH has moved from Philadelphia to Atlanta. Brother EL.MER BRU.MMER CSC is now at Notre Dame High School in Wichita Falls, Tex. after a stint at St. Francis H. S. in Mountain View, Calif. ED RECKER is now executive direc­tor of development at Gannon Col. in Erie, Pa. 
So this is it for now. Let's all be friends. Send your information about whom you met, wliom you golfed with, whom you drank with etc, and we'll look fons'ard to seeing you all at the next brawl, oops. Reunion. 
GEORGE J. KEENAN 177 Rolling Hills Rd., Clifton, NJ. 07013 
WESLEY to tht 
ALUMNUS editor—not 
as dramatic perhaps 
nor as sensational as 
Hanratly to Seymour, but if zve can score with a few Class notes that were passed along to me lately, maybe we can draw some more *49ers into the game and add substantially to our column yardage in forthcom­ing issues. 
1949 
Speaking of Se>Tnour—and who isn't these da>3 —our own STAN SEYMOUR ^vrole me from Pittsburgh a short note to let the gang know he's still li^nng in **Pirate-town" where the fans really had "Buc-fcvcr" all season long. OK for another starting pitcher. Stan wus appointed asst. to the dean. School of Business at Duqucsne U. in June. He and BEN GESSLER are bringing their families to the Pitt game and will be looking for familiar faces. CHARLIE HERINGER updated my files by writing from Billings, Mont, where he and his wife, MarjTicll, and seven youngsters reside. Ma and Pa have been there I4J4 years after ditching Midland, Tex. to find some real oil up North. In fact the letterhead is most impressive—a cut fea­tures a series of oil derricks and then the name "Charles Heringer Jr., oil operator." Pretty slick. Sa>'s he'll split a barrel with anyone passing through, any time. 
A formal notice was sent mc by Haskins and Sells, certified public accountants, announcing that JOHN FAVRET CPA had been admitted as a member of the firm. Congrats, John, I can speak knowingly of ho^v well John deserves that recognition because I can recall John's homework in ad\'anced accounting being somewhat more than just a "guide" for some less knowledgeable or in­dustrious accounting majors. Our very effective wire-tap division has come up with these no-longer­secret tidbits: TOM FRANCIS has been named a vice-president of the Owens-Illinois, Inc.*s Glass Container Div. He will ser\i'e as sales manager of the central division with his headquarters in Skokie. GEORGE P. SE.ALY has been elected diairman of the board of Arizona Agrochcmical 
at a silver jubilee observance at St. Augustine 
Parish in South Bend where he has been hdpang 
with the training of altar boys, sacristy and sanc­
tuary duties and various parish projects since the 
l&40's. Since 1942 Brother EH has been assigned 
to the Notre Dame post office where he has been 
postmaster since 1963. 
As reported earlier in the year, elsewhere in the ALUMNUS magazine, FRANK SULLIVAN will take office in November as prendent of the 1967 Million Dollar Round Table, the life insurance industry's top salesman group. As such he mil preside at the annual meeting in Lucerne, Switzerbnd in June, 1967. Marquette U. news bureau sent me a detailed news release re Dr. EDWARD SIMMONS who received his BA degree in '43 and a bachelor in sacred theolc^y degree in '47 from St. Mary's Col. in Baltimore. In 1949 he received an MA and in 1952 his PhD in phi­losophy, both from Notre Dame. Dr. Simmons, who taught at Notre Dame from 1947 until going to Marquette in 1952 as an instructor in philos­ophy, has been appointed chairman of the depart­ment of philosophy at Marquette U. for a three-year period beginning Sept. 1. Dr. Simmons married Marguerite Scheibelhut (who worked in the purchasing office at Notre Dame from 1943­1930). The news release covered in detail his progress through the various levels of teaching ranks culminating in a full professorship in 1965 and now the chairmanship of the department. Mention was also made of many philosophical artidcs authored by the good doctor and two books published in 1961 and 1963. Phew! The final line of the news report on Dr. Simmons reads, "Dr. Simmotts is married and fives mth his wife and their 11 children at 411 Hawthorne Ave., South Milwaukee, Wb." Hats off, gents! 
Final note for this issue covers a fine letter from TOM GORGON in Den\-er, Colo. Tom was at Notre Dame in 1915, *46, *47, e%-entually taking his business administration degree from Regis Col. and a master's in industrial relations from the U. of Denver. PETE KERN.AN's letter prompted Tom to make his first informational report since fea\-ing the ND campus. Thus we learn that Tom is married, his wife, Tina, is a Phi Beta Kappa of Denver U. and they have five children. Tom has spent 11 years with the Col­orado Hosp. and Medical Service Co. Inc. and currently is the Blue Cross-Blue Shield Div. man­ager. Had an active hand in the Denver Notre Dame Club activities, particularly when Notre Dame played the Air Force Academy a couple years ago. 
I still didn't report on the doings of Rev. MEINRAD G.AUL and JACK MESa\LL, JIM LASKOSKE, BILL FISCHER and MYLES DUFFY. Next issue will correct for the lack of room in this effort. I would like to hear some news from the crew in Buffalo—BOB WEBER and "IFFY" IFFLANDER etc Also, DICK KOPF in Toledo, TOM KltASS in Detroit. Your fans au-ait—breathlessly! Just a quick note to let us know that you were at East Lansing or were \vatching the tube when Notre Dame ate State to stay No. 1. Maybe JOHNNY FROMPTON would drop me a line from Pomona, Calif, after seeing the USC game as the Irish apply the Na* tional Champ convincer. 
Meantime—sincere thanks to all who did take five and helped with this melange. 
LEO L WESLEY 155 Driftwood Lone, Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
The last issue ot the ALUMNUS m^azine had a yellow post card in it for your 
1950 
use. Let me know not only about your families and yomsclves but also about any fellow alumni in your area. 
In the Miami area we had a fine annual get-
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER }966 DECEMBER 

together for the tclcx-iscd Xotrc Dame-Purduc of the Pittsburgh Clubj and JOE JUDGE of the now a major (you may recall "Ben" Blaz). Ben game at DAN ROWLAND'S Major Appliance Co. Charleston Club. was recently awarded the Cross of Gatlantr>- by dispby room. MIKE O'NEILL, MACK SCHAEF-My family and I wish each and every one of South Vietnam for gallantrj- against the Viet Cong FER and LARRY COUTRE arc in tlic Miami you and yours a very happy and holy Christmas forces while serving as operations officer. The area besides Rc\*. JACK L. TOTTY (former and New Year. presentation ceremonies, at the 3rd Marine Am­drmnmer in GENE HULL's band) who is now phibious Force Hq. in Danang, were attended by chaplain at Kfarymount Col. and of the Ncu-man JOHN W. THORNTON Premier Ky. Also spoke to HAL WITTROCK Club at Florida Atbntic U. in Boca Raton, Fla. by phone for a few minutes. Hal and Helen live Rev. FRANK NEALY OP, who taught most of 4400 Monserrate St., at 3836 Stroschcn Dr. in Cincinnati, Ohio 45211. us Sacraments and was chaplain for a ^-car at the They have six offspring from age 12 down to I: Nc\%*maa Club at tlic U. of Miami, is now at Coral Gables, Fla. 33146 Mary Kay, Mark, Anne, Jeanne, Greg and Gerald. Pro\-idence Col. in Providence, R.I. If any of Hal is vice-president and treasurer of Paragon 
yaa come into the area of the seminar)' at Stone­
faiU Col., North Easton, Mass., be sure to stop 
in to see my wife Marj* Pat's brother. Rev. TOM 
FEELEY CSC '52. Tliosc of you ^vho had any 
connection with tlic Notre Dame Law Library will 
be pleased to know that Miss Marie K. LawTcnce, 
law librarian for 21 years, has been appointed 
head of the social sciences and business adminis­
tration dept. of the University's ^fcmo^al Library, 
A nice note from JACK SANFORD, now at 
25 Sunnj-ficld Terrace, Neptune, N.J., with Io\-eIy 
wife, Barbara, and three girls and a boy. Jack is 
connected with the Department of the Army at 
Fort Monmouth, N.J. in helicopters and dec* 
tronics. Some extracurricular activities include 
Jack's teaching CCD courses and his wife's at­
tending a school of anesthesia. DON HELLING­
HAUSEN writes from famed Breckcnridgc, Tex.— 
which should be remembered by DICK McGOLD-
RICK, ED KELLY and DO.\ BUSECK on a 

trip from San Diego to Miliraukce—that all is 
well in Breckenridge. His wife, Marjorie (Marjone 
Fiehrcr SMC *53), and his six bo>-s and two 

girls get to sec Muriel and DICK CULLEN occa­
sionally. Don operates oil field supply houses 
(Ccn-Tcx, Inc.). Don states tliat Dick ifcGold­

rick, **who cannot write," does call occasionally, 
I must admit tliat tliis is true in general but 
have to report tliat I did receive a letter from 
*'the puncli" Apr. 18, 1966 which may be the 
first in 10 years but I hope it is not the last. 
I noted an error in the last publication. Dick 
AfcGoIdrick has tlic Handschumaclicr Co. ia 
Boston. 
If any of you want a cliar-broilcd steak, my old roommate, RUSS SKALL, may fly it to you in his Cessna at the drop of a hat, especially if you want it from his Colonial Wonder Bar in Apple­ton, Wis. Rev. DAN CLARKE is pastor of St, Patrick's of Irish Settlement, oldest paiish in the diocese of Des Moines, and editor of the Des Moines Messenger and can give you a little glimpse of old Ireland if you stop in to see him. BOB SLOCUM reports that he has joined Wcstinghousc Electric Co. as a marketing consultant and is residing at 6109 Fifth Ave., Pittsburgh, after his summer trip to Spain, Portugal and Monaco. A nice note from BILL GALLAGHER, now resid­ing at lOt Harbor, Glencoe, III., with lovely wife Maureen (sister of BERNARD SMFFH '51) three girls and a boy and in partnership with his brother, BOB '54, as manufacturer's agent for furniture LA-Z-Boy cliairs. LOUIS DUGAN has been named production manager for engineered materials in the electrical products division of the 
G. T. Schjeldahl Co., Northfield, ^tinn. 
BEN PATTERSON has been elected \icc-presi­
dent and director of ^fcdicare administration for Mutual of Omaha. RICHARD J. DUNGAR is now at 705 CUffwood Lane, LaCrosse, Wis. GEORGE CORWINE lias been named marketing services manager for the Sperr>- Electronic Tube Div., Gaines\ille, Fla. JOHN STEVNLNG is manager of Cleveland Graphite Bronze Dii'., Clevitc Corp., Bridgeport, Ohio. BRYON ORMS­BY has been named sales training manager of the newly formed midwestem region of Cities Scr\'ice Oil Co. JAMES CROWE lias been appointed to a newly created position of manager of the western regions for the Detroit Diesel Engine Div. of General Motors. I liad a nice note from JOHN" READY O'CONNOR, Madison, Ind.. who reports that his new law partnership with William Prime, son of Indiana Appellate Court Judge George Prime, is now located at 416 E. Main St. in Madi­son. Rev. DON DRAINE CSC has moved to the 
U. of Portland. Dr. JIM BONESSI MD is in McKcesport, Pa. I note that the Georgia Tech game is in Atlanta and the U. of Miami game is in Miami for 1967. 
I would be pleased to hear not only from any of the classmates or their wives for information for this column, but would also like to hear from a few of our classmates throughout the country who happen to be presidents of the various local clubs this year, such as BOB ROHLING in Omaha; BOB SINCAVICH in Wheeling; DON IbfEER of the Harrisbms Club; PETE FRIDAY 
30 
jm ^^^ V^B JM ^°^ ^^y recall that in ^m ff M L^ ^m the last issue of the ALUK­
• ^^ ^m I '•""s CHARLIE O'DON­I 1b^ ^^^ I NELL was left holding a 
sack of fertilizer. For* tunatcly, the summer lias been dry and no un­toward chemical reaction has set in. In 1961 Charlie married Barbara Washburn and they now have three offspring: Kathleen, 4; Patrick, 2; and Timothy, I. For late starters the O'Donnells seem to be doing all right. They live at 4673 W, Peterson Ave., Chicago, III. 60646. 

We missed JACK BECKER at the last golf outing. Jack's golf game indicates that not all the time in the construction business is spent digging up the big divots with steam shovels; he is prcttj- nifty around the 18 holes. Jack is with McGuirc Equipment Co. in sales and administra­tive work. He married Donna Schlacks and they have six and one-Iialf children. The six include Dan, 10; Can, 9; Judi, 8; Teri, 7; Gini, 4; and John, 2. The next arri\-al is expected in Mareh at 325 Basswood Dr., Napcr\ille, 111. Speaking of additions, Kathy FACCENDA did not last until half time at the Northwestern game but went to the hospital the day before. After four girls, a boy was delivered. Now PHIL can unuTap the train set that has been in the closet for five years and, maybe, he will even let Phil Jr. play with it once in a while. The good fortune of Phil and Kathy prompted us to call JACK YOUNG at Young Brothers Electronics in Erie. The Philcos must be mo\ing in good shape, as Jack was over in the floor covering section. Jack and Alaryann (Held) liave four girls ranging from II to five years. They are Sara, Susan, Kate and Afary, resident at 3846 Myrtle St., Erie, Pa. It appeals that no male ofl'spring is on the horizon for the Youngs at this time. 
JOHN BUCKLEY is in purchasing with the Chicago Tribune, but he has not yet found a source for pupils to be inserted in Little Orphan Annie's blank eyeballs. John married Teresa Tobin and they have four cliildren: Teresa Marie, 10; John, 9; Mike, 7; and Bobby, 5. They are South-Sidcrs, living at 9818 S. Hamilton, Chicago, 
III.
 60&43. After many years as the lone South-Side representative in the Seminar group, John Buckley drafted JOHN GERLITS. John married Joan Nfurphy and they have t\vo offspring: John, 9, and Laura, 7. John is a vice-president with the Exchange Natl. Bank of Chicago and lives at 9415 S. Hamilton, Chicago, III. 60620. TOM KIGIN lias been in our area for about 12 years. Tom is general sales manager for Acorn Corru­gated Box Co. in Chicago. He married Billic Lou Berliner about nine years ago and they live at 80 

N.
 Drexel in LaGrange, III. Tom and Billie have five offspring: Danny is 8; David Is 7; and the twins. Tommy and Terry, are 6. Little Jcaime just had her first birthday. 


Just received a letter from JACK TRACY who no longer liails from Omaha, but can be found at 5507 Haleola St., Honolulu, Hawaii. Jack is passenger manager for Castle & Cooke, Inc., gen­eral agents for American President Lines. It seems that Holbnd has attractive exports in addition to Heinckens, because Jack married the former Gretha Scbouten of Alkmaar, Holland nine years ago. Tlicy have two bo>-s and a girl and Jack and his family imite any of our classmates passing tlirough Hawaii to drop in for that famous "Aloha" hospitality. GEORGE SCHWIND tele­phoned when be arrived in town recently as patent counsel for Crane Co. George now resides in Palos Park, III., 9002 West 121st St., with his wife, Miriam; Suzi, 6; and Walt, 5. George hails from South Bend and served as a patent examiner in Washington to learn the patent attorney itipes. About a year ago Arleen and RALPH SJOBERG returned to Milwaukee where Ralph is now cor^ poratc planning coordinator for J. I. Case. The 
Sjobergs have three children: Craig, 12; DaWd, 10; and Manettc, 8 (Ralph does not include the two goldfish as dependents on his tax return). They live at 1184t W. Bel Mar Dr., FianUin, Wis. 53132. 
VINCE BLAZ is stiU in the Marines and is 
Paper in Cincinnati. He endorsed something called a "Cursillo," which appears to be a kind of retreat with Irish dancing. J.ACK YOUNG also mentioned this movement favorably but there w*as at least one negative reaction at the Reunion. It appears tliat whatever this movement is it must be experienced to form a judgment. 
Please send along any news notes to the address shown above. If somebody is sick or prayers are requested for some urgent matter write or call at 312-663-2038. There are enough of your class­mates and their children here in Chicago to send up a few Words in your bclialf. 
JAMES JENNINGS Borg-Warner Corp., 200 S. Michigan Ave., Chicago, III. 60604 
1952 
HARRY L. BUCH 600 Board of Trade BIdg., Wheeling, W. Va. 26000 
Can't understand how 
so many Notre Darners 
could liave broken 
arms all at once; I 
was assured that the 

information cards inserted in the last issue would 
result in plenty of mail. But so far, by actual 
count, the might>* Class of '53 has responded 
nobly with four cards. Let's get with it. Gang, 
and dig into that last issue for the cards. I 
really don't know how we could make it easier 
for ^-ou. 
GERRY MARSIL^LL sent in a nice note: •*Married Rosemary Pert, sister of ED PERT '52. We have four bo}^ and two girls, ranging in age from one to 10 years. I'm senior metallurgist at W^man-Gordon Co. in Worcester, Mass. Keeping busy coaching Little League, hocke>' league and teaching in parish CCD program. Sec >-ou at the 15th Reunion." Thanks for the news, Gerr>% and your address—11 Garden St., Auburn, Mass. 01501. Received a long letter (that's tlic best kind) from BOB STRALEY: **Afler seeing my name printed in your column of the last issue of the ALUMNUS magazine (and right next to BRIAN KELLY's, too) I thought I'd try to keep up the trend. On June 1 I did take new cmpIovTncnt and went from quality assurance engineer. Western Electric, .Al­lentown. Pa. to quality assurance manager. Inter­national Telephone & Telegraph, Palo Alto, Calif. However, promotions seem to come rapidly in the company and I am now attached to the president's Staff as a quality assurance advisor and am residing at 3217 Australian Ct., West Palm Beach, Fku I have a wife and four children. I have been promising to get together with my old 
roomie, GERRY MARSHALL, in Auburn, Mass. for several years. You can tell him for me that 
1953 
•this is the >*car-' ITT has a plant in LawTcnce, Xkss. and I will be visiting it and him soon. I did get to talk to another old roomie, by phone only, GERRY McCABE, vAile passing through Rochester, N.Y. last April. I called Gerry about 8 p.m.; he wasn't home but his wife took the message. Gerry called me back at 2 a.m. and 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 
wc talked until four. I had to get up at seven 
for an important business meeting! Anyxray, I 
could say a lot more but I'll save it for the next 
issue. Don*t move, I'll probably Ii%-c there soon-
We liavc moved 14 times so far in oup 13 
years of marriage.'* 
Also received some news from a very old &iend 
in Indianapolis, TOM O'BRIEN: 
*'Joan just delivered a ne\^ baby boy for us on 
July 27 and the count is now 10—five boys and 
five girls—how's that for 'Planned Parenthood'? 
(To tell the truth, Tom, I think it would just 
about finish them if they ever heard about you!) 
Girls: Kathleen, Colleen, Maureen, Eileen, Rosa-
Iccn. Bo>-s: Tommy, !NlichacI, Patrick, Kevin, 
Terrcnce. Tliey are the greatest. Vfhh pleasures 
like tliesc, you don't have time to worry about 
business. Our business, a Chrysler-Plymouth deal­
ership, has been good even though your brother. 
Bill, and Wall Street tell mc it isn't supposed to 
be. Chrysler Corp. recently informed us that we 
arc now l9th in the nation out of approximately 
3,500 dealers. I do feel proud and fortunate but 
still very humbly grateful to God who has given 
us all these blessings." 
With 10 kids, O'Brien, you'd better be working 
for the number one spot. Is that the Class record? 
If someone beats it let's bear from you. Until 
then, I hereby nominate O'Brien as the Class of 
'53's answer to "Planned Parenthood." Tom can 
be reached at Norlliside Chr>'sIcr-Plymouth, Inc., 
5102 N. Keystone Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 46205. 
Recently learned that the mother of one of our 
classmates, GEORGE WITOUS, died this summer. 
I'm sure that all the rest join with mc in extend* 
ing our sympathy and that we'll remember her in 
our prayers. George's address: 10205 Kenneth, 
Oak Lawn, III. 
Bro. JOHN BENESH CSC ^^-rotc as follows: 
"After many years I finally have a bit of ND 
Class of *53 news. I am now teaching at Holy 
Cross Junior Col., Notre Dame. It is located 
west of ND across the Dixie Highway between St. 
Joseph's High School and St. Mary's Col. I ^vill 
be teaching two mathematics classes and I am the 
director of Basil Hall, a residence for young men 
in the initial stage of becoming Holy Cross Broth­
ers. Basil Hall will be a *pre-novitiate' residence 
from September to January and also during the 
summer. From February until June it will be a 
retreat house for high school boj-s from the 
Brothers' schools in the Midwest. Here arc some 
'olds.* During the summers of '63, '65 and *66 
I taught a math course at St. Edward's U., Aus­
tin, Tex." Bro. John's address: Brothers of the 
Holy Cross, Holy Cross Junior College, Basil Hall, 
Notre Dame 46556. 
DAVID FOX has been promoted to wc-presl­dcnt in tlic banking department of the Northern Trust Co. in Chicago. MIKE DOLAN is a sales manager with Fenwal Inc. He is also still active as a pilot in the Na\'al Air Rescr\-c and, with his wife and four children, lives at 158 Wood St., Hopkinton, Mass. THOMAS JACKSON has earned his law degree from the U. of Denver. PAUL ANDERSON has a PhD in English from the same school. JON McKENZIE is now a lieu­tenant commander in the Navy and is scr\"ing as commander of the Naval base at Nicosia, C>*pru5. Since leaving ND he has ser\'cd in many countries and has become quite a linguist. While in Turkey he even took an interest in archeology. His wife and three children arc living in Washington at the present. NORBERT LEWINSKI has been ap­pointed sales agent by the Allstate Ins. Co. Maj. DONALD SENICH has assumed duties of the chief of the nuclear power field office at Fort Belvoir, Va. VINCE RAY.MOND has been trans­ferred from the USAF Academy to the Procure­ment Law Div. of the legal office of HQ AF Logistics Command at Wright-Pattenon AFB. His new address is 1610 Green Oak Ct., Fairbom, Ohio 45324. JOHN HOUCK is now in his second year as president of the ND AAUP. W. E. GIB­SON is working in Paris as European international procurement manager for IBM and is now resid­ing at 30 Blvd. d'Argenson, Apt. 23, Nucilly­Sur-Seinc, France. 

Well, gang, that's about it for this Issue. I've exceeded the amount of space allotted to us, the beer's running low and my two tj-ping fingers are giving out. Once again, try to write in and I promise to pass the news along. Oh, yes, brother Bill, where arc you? 
WALTER F. "BUD" STUHLDREHER 11006 Jean Rd. S.E., Huntsville, Ala. 35803 
A funny thing hap­pened to me on the way to the reunion party after the Pur­due-ND game. I for­
1954 
got to bring my wife, Marie, along. I missed her good company and w*ithout her good influence I must admit to collecting more olives than Class information. Olive collecting is most difficult aS they hide beneath a 2/3-ounce covering of spirits which must be sipped au-ay. With this kind of distraction how can you expect me to stay on the job? It would be simpler if you would just occa­sionally drop me a short note. 
Some notes on the party: the world's biggest liar, BOB WRIGHT, told mc he shot a 44 then went par-par, birdie before it got dark. Would you believe 54 and bogey-bogey, double bogey? Yeah! Along with the Wrights were the CAS-TELINIs, BURKEs and PODENs who were aston­ished as to how comfortable the Oliver Hotel really was. Yeah! Some people don't seem to c:hange at all; others are almost unrecognizable. JOE BERTR^VND hasn't changed a bit- Joe's still active in the Chicago political scene. TOM MURPHY, Democratic congressman (state) from Indianapolis, also made the reunion party. Don't we have any Republican leaders? By now JOE JOYCE, running in Iowa or Indiana for somc­thing-or-other, (Ha! those olives w*ill do it every time) could be cur Class Republican stan­dard bearer. 
JIM DASCHBACH, with his doctorate in ciwl engineering, is now numbered among the N D faculty. Outside of DON BEDEL and myself, there were no other chcm engineers at the party. We have quite a few NROTC alumni—ED BROW.V. JIM BERNHART, DICK EHR, D.\VE MUNSON. ED MILOTA, JACK PITTAS and BOB WRIGHT among others. Not in attendance any of these years and at our five-year Reunion, too, arc our Class athletes. Oh, there have been a few. JOE BERTRAND. ROCK MORRISSEY, JOHN LATTNER, BOB RIGALI show up occa­sionally, but only occasionally, not frequently. Per­sonally, I'd like to see olc, fat TOM McHUGH once in a while. Tom is an assistant coach at 
Xavler U. in Cincinnati. 
One of those most changed was JL\X PL.\NTE, 
Max was sporting a full beard. It was red and— 
along with gray hair—was quite colorful, ifax il 
exec. VP for Carhartt Inc., men's wear in 
Detroit. DICK EHR %vas involved in a freak 
accident during rcscn'e training in June and was 
laid up for a while. He made the party, neck 
brace and all. After a few drinks the brace was 
off and by now is probably ofT permanently. JACK 
PITTAS, pausing for a moment in bctiveen fre­
quent business trips to Europe, was at the party. 
Jack u-as happy to see an old pal. LEN WELCH. 
Haven't seen JAKE NOONAN for a couple of 
years now and, despite the loss of an occasional 
favorite tie, we all miss him. 
HERM KRIEGSHAUSER informs us that JOHN "SPARKY" STODD.^RD is a partrier in the Eastman Dillon Investment Co. He, with his wife, Joan, and two sons, lives in Franklin Park, N.J. BRIAN WILLIAMS, after nine years in the Army, is wearing ci\'\'ies again. He's an ophthalmologist. He and his wife. Sheila, and three children have moved to Seattle. Again, I'd like to express thanks to DICK PILGER and GENE HENRY for another great party. Without their efforts the parties ^vould be just wishful thinking. Holy electrical engineering lab, batfans! The "D>*namic Duo" has done it again. Thanks. 

FRANK J. BOTT MD (Northwcslcm '58) re­cently visited his old roomie, \VALT CASHMAN. Frank Interned at Philadelphia Gen. Hosp., was a resident there in Internal medicine and now has his mvn practice fslnce Aug.. 196*) In San Bernardino. Calif. He married Jacqueline Law­rence of Philadelphia in 1960. Present address: 25738 Segundo Ct. In San Bernardino. DICK REGAN, 4908-119 S.E.. Bellci,iie. Wash., is a research engineer with Boeing Co. The Regans had their first boy, Kevin. In Dec . 1965 after two girls. TO^f KING fanother garbage man) received his MBA from the U. of Ifassachusetts in June. He's been with GE for 12 years now and recently spent tivo years traveling as a s auditor. Tom and spouse have five little ones, and reside now at 5617 Caria Way. Erie, Ri. Thti Raiths had another one (five now)! Gregory Rat-rick Raith son of Vat and FR.ANTC RAITH was born on Aug. 11. Coming at a less convenient time was Paul Matthew Bierbusse, second son of JOHN BIERBUSSE. He arrived shortly after ND 
cleaned up Purdue but gave enough ad\'ance notice so as to prevent the proud parents from tmng their tickets and coming to our leimion party as pbnned. You could have come any way, John. Just think, the baby would have been bom in the £E lab. We always have a doctor or two around and plenty of alcohol. 
Our sympathy is extended to JIM BERNHART on the death of his dad, one of the really big N D fans. Your prayers are appreciated. 
Capt. RAYlklOND J. BUBICK has been as­ngncd to the USAF Academy in Colorado to assume the position of an instructor in the depart­ment of electrical engineering. JOSE ANTONIO APELLANIZ has just returned from a tu'o-and-a­faalf-year stay in Spain where he was ser%^ng as project engineer responsible for one of three phases of construction of a high-pressure polyethylene pbnt. He, his wife and five cJiildren have re­turned to the States where he is employed with the Midland, Mich, office of Dow Chemical Inter­national. Major THOM\S HAMLIN returned from Vietnam in June after serving as the combat operations officer of the 1st Marine Regiment from Dec, 1965 to June, 1966. He is now an assistant professor of naval science at Northwestern 
U. He and his wife, Ann, and their six children now live in Arlington Hgts., HI. BILL NOONAN has been elected a vice-president of Burson­A^rsteller, an international public reladons agency. ROBERT HUDDLESTON who is an account rep­resentative at Xerox's Akron branch, recently grad­uated from the company's national sales develop­ment center. CHARLES TROZZO received his PhD from Har^-ard in June. EDWARD O'CO.X­NOR PhD '54, a foreign service officer with the State Dept., was named a Science and Technology Fellow under a program designed for professional development of sdentlfic and technical personnel in federal services. AHCHAEL LEWANOWICZ received his master's in education &om Western Reserve this September. 
Since I probably won't receive all the mail promised at the party, I'm saving some of the letters mentioned above. Would you believe this is the first time I've bad more than enough ma­terial for the column? Lastly, may I wish you all a wonderful, merry Christmas and a happy, holy and prosperous New Year. 
MILTON J. BEAUDINE 21 Signal Hill Blvd., E. St. Louis, 
III. 62203 
"How old is yonr btisband. Mis, Ftill­mer?" 
"He's 32, Doctor." 

"Wen, that's pretty old to have the lussin' disease." With that dis­creet announcement, I have been occupied the past two months with shaking the effects of mono. I plan to check with the AMA on the ethics of bis announcement. For you sawbones in the Class, please break the news dlfferendy to the wives of your patients because most of my recovery was an inquisition. The real reason for my collapse was a classmate who was invited to dinner the night before I got sick and did nothing but com­plain because his name wasn't mentioned in the last column. (His initials are NEAL HAL­LORAN , but I'm not going to mention his name this time, either!) I really got shook when Father JOE O'DONNELL came to visit, but he assured me that he was home on vacation. Let's get back to the liWng. 
1955 

The reunion after the Purdue game saw many of the "Old Faithful" at the trough in the Kforris Inn, but also plenty of faces from the dim past. Seated in a block to root the Irish home were MIKE KELLY, JOHN HARTIG.AN, JER­RY GROARK, GEORGE SHELTON, JACK FLYNN, DICK BURKE, and HANK GIESE. Nearby were JERRY BRANSFIELD, JOE KEAR­NEY, JACK GITS, DICK BEEMAN and STEVE REBORA, who just moved into his new house at 6200 Forest Glen in Chicago. Bachelors JERRY PRASSAS and JOHN WEITHERS impressed the non-Chicago crowd with their recent exploits. Ran into fRASK CLELAND outside the stadium, but he couldn't belly up to the bar either because lie was soon taking one of the big birds into the fnendly s^es of you know whom. 
As usual, LOU ZEFRAN came op with the best quip when filling out an infonnatlon card. Under bu^ness he wrote, "tmderground land­scaping." Later he added, **What I plant is guaranteed not to grow." For those who don't know the ''Polish Ritriot," he's an undertaker. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 
PAPAL ARCHITECT 

AnthonyGenovese '55 
The highlight of the Papal visit to New York in 1965 was the Mass for Peace celebrated by Pope Paul VI in New York's Yankee Stadium. The highlight of the architectural career of Anthony Genovese '55 was his design of the very altar upon which the Holy Father of­fered the Mass. An insight into the young career of the Notre Dame graduate provides ample basis for 5ie selection of Genovese & Mad­dalene by tlie New York Diocese for the project 
Tony began working as a proj­ect architect in 1951, the year after he entered the University. As a student he won several awards for excellence in sculpture and architectural design including a two-year Buehler Fellowship to Princeton where he received his master of fine arts in architecture in 1957. 
The successful design team of Tony Genovese and Herb Mad­dalene (a 1952 Carnegie Tech graduate) was launched in 1960 when they collaborated in national competition for the design" of an FDR memorial. Their initial joint effort netted tliem First Honorable Mention. Continuing their winning combination, they entered the state­wide competition the following year to design a suitable pavilion for the State of New Jersey exhibit at the New York Worid's Fair. Their design not only merited First Honorable Mention but actually formed the basic concept of the final executed design. 
Evidence of the success of their teamwork encouraged the two architects to form a partnership. 
In 1963 the firm of Genovese & 
Maddalene AIA was established in 
a room in Tony's Ridgewood 
(N.J.) home. Their initiating ef­
fort was the prize-winning design 
of a church for which the citation 
on the Cardinal Lercaro Silver 
Medal read: "for excellence in 
architecture and in its creative and 
contemporary solution to the prob­
lem of housing the worshipping 
assembly." 
Their achievement was further awarded with the commission to design the Papal altar in Yankee Stadium, a charge which was not only a great honor but entailed a great deal of responsibility. In the three weeks intervening between the awarding of the commission and the Papal visit Tony and his partner were faced with numerous complexities far beyond the usual realm of architectural detail. Design for the altar platform employed a nondirectional shape of a Greek Cross and was executed in a strik­ing combination of red, gold and white. The platform and steps were covered with waterproof and fire­proof carpeting which was placed over electric heating coils to give some relief against the ivind and cold. 
But in addition to the altar design, Genovese and Maddalene also had to insure unobstructed visibility of the altar from all parts of the stadium; design housing for TV cameras which would provide maximum coverage witli minimum distraction; lay out a sanctuary area; map the field seating and provide security clearance of hun­dreds of workmen. 
Odier commissions in which Tony has been engaged include the designing of numerous churches, schools, municipal buildings and industrial plants. One of his most recent projects was self-commb­sioned. The firm of Genovese and Maddalene is expanding to a new two-story office building with quarters for the increasing staff which now includes Notre Dame man Tom Farina '61 as project architect. 
With the offices of the firm re­moved from the front half of their home, Tony and his wife, the former Marilj-n Papa, and their two children, Gregg and Loren, are once again the sole occupants of 463 Van Emburgh Ave., Ridge­wood, N.J. 
Indbna WM well represented. LEE CREAN, 
now executive director for the Small Business 
Development Center in South Bend, announced 
the arrii-al of his fifth boy. IRV CARRIG, the 
poor man's Plato, is teaching philosophy at the 
University. DICK GAtJTHIER, the affluent 
banker, «-as in from Highland. JIM SCHENKEL, 
who receives credit for getting the fi%'c-ycar arclii­
tect bo>-s who started with us back into the 
Class of 53, was busy renewing old acquaintances. 
Jim wanted to know why GEORGE VAN BESIEN 
wasn't at the Reunion last year. Well, George?! 
Michigan also had a good turnout. JIM C.A­
HILL, controller of Grand Rapids Label Co., and 
ED PREIN% a consulting engineer, represented the 
big Rapids. DON BAIN reported tliat the Air 
Force is sending him to Michigan State (Go Irish) 
for his master's in business. (Nice work if you 
can get it, Ed.) He lives at 6085 E. Lake Dr., 
Haslett, Mich. Ohio also got into the act. JOE 
CONNOLLY, my old journalism classmate, recent­
ly was promoted to assistant sales promotion 
manager of Arthur G. McKee & Co. He and his 
wife left the two children home at 16510 Sedalia 
Ave., Cleveland. BILL REALE, the world's great­
est little man, had hb bride in tow. They live at 
18928 Wimlow Rd., Shaker Heights, Ohio. 
Since announcing our great joy after adopting Monica (first tooth today. Gang!) Sandra and I were delighted to talk to other classmates who arc parents via adoption. JIM STEVENS, who wrote a long letter after reading the last column, and his wife, Barbara, have a little girl just four da>'s younger than Monica. Naturally, we had to swap notes. Incidentally, Jim is manager of the in­surance department and assistant manager of the Detroit office of Mathers, Stevens and ^fartin. Inc., a real estate firm. Home is 17400 Hunting­ton, Detroit. After attending the pep rally before the Purdue game, Jim was heard to mutter, *'Gee, students keep looking younger every year." DICK CONNELLY and his wife abo liave a little girl. JOE M.\DIGAN wrote to welcome me to the ranks of adoptive fathers ("I've got two young assassins, Terry, 4 and Da\'td, 2) while pumping me for a couple of Purdue tickets. The TOM GRODENS also have joined the ranks of adoptive parents. 
Back to the Reunion. It was good to sec TOM WELLY, abo in from Ohio. FRANK BURKE was on his way to Santa Cbra. TOM G.AL­LIGAN, who had to attend a wxdding in Chicago, won the "above and beyond the call of duty" award by drinng down during the game just to attend llie party. MACK STEW.ART was having a beer with DICK GABERIK, wlio looks like he still could catch a double header. BOB ARRIX who just moved to 118 Eveigreen Rd., New Canaan, Conn., said that he has learned to write during the 11 years since graduation—so now let's hear from you, "Golden Toe." RUSS TOOHEY set up a few bracers for the troops the months before the Northwestern game while showing off the twins. After the game master-builder GEORGE SHELTON had punch and cookies at his Wilmette mansion. 
While on the subject of football, RALPH GUGLIELMI shot a cool 68-75—143 to take the club championship medal at Congressional C. C. in Washington. It's good to see DICK SZY­M.\XSKI still at center for the Colts. FRANK V.\RRICHIONE finally called it quits with the Rams. On the service front—JERRY HUGHES is a proud papa again. He and Joan welcomed Kelley Ann on July 27 to their home at 716 Pine Glen, Selma, Ab. JIM WATERS, the fencing master, has thb fancy address—Hq. 1st Stratad, Opetstions Analysis, Vandenberg AFB, Calif. 
I almost cancelled my subscription to Tiiue when the publbher ran the second photo of RAY KEN­NEDY within a year. It's a good thing that he had lib tux and cummerbund to mask hb "gourd­like shape" (his own wordsj. Ray penned the cover story on Rudolf Bing and the Met. JIM SIEGER, who recently w ^ named executive pro­ducer of WBBM-TV news spcciab here, had his award-winning "Revolution in Religion" show re­peated in October. Jim and Maureen have two children. JOHN McSHANE has been elected president of tlie Notre Dame Club of Phoenix. John and Momette liave six children. MIKE WARD, who recently was named vice-president for research of Walston & Co., appears to be maintaining hb lead in the children derby. He and hb wife now have nine children. They live in New Rochelle, N.Y. Go get 'cm! 
BILL SLUSSERATH and I urge you to continue to support PAUL HAUHNAR and hb stricken people. Send your checks (pa>*able to Mizo Citi-
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 

zens Committee) to Paul, Aijal, P.O. Mizo Dis­trict, Assam^ India. Thanks! 
PAUL FULLMER 7344 N. Ridge Blvd., Chicago, IN. 60645 

1956 
Dear Fellow Classmates: 
At the outset, your newly elected Class officers wish to express their appreciation for bestowing upon them the honor of representing the Class of '56. You may rest assured that zve shall en' deavor to continue the excellent tradition of ser­
I would appreciate it if all of you would utilize the information post card supplied in the ALUM­NUS magazine. I am sure your classmates are anxious to know your \«'hcreabout5 and your busi­ness and family happenings. 
EUGENE O'CONNOR Cosgrove & O'Connor, 656 Ellicott Sq. BIdg. Buffalo, N.Y. 14203 
It was a great time in South Bend following the Notre Dame-Army game as we gathered on the patio in back 

1957 
technic Institute in June. RON HEROIN is the employment interviewer at Babcock * Wilcox in Barberton, Ohio. JOHN GIBBS looks like he is packing a milh'on and has been named the regional manager of the Computron, Inc., Chicago office. Couldn't have picked a finer Computroa. JOE C.\RBONI is the assistant treasurer of the First PennsyK-ania Banking and Trust Co. and has been named manager of the Bainbn'dge Street office. CLYDE BRENNAN comes in from Houston with 
the news that he is still employed by Haskins & Sells, CPA firm, as a principal (certainly hope so) and has two sweethearts and one dc\*il among his clients. MOORE McDONOUGH was the big arranger for the television showing of ND-Purdue and a job he did. The TV sets didn't work but the booze did even though his drink prices made up for the stock market decline. 
JOHN WALSH has joined us in New York e\en 

vice established by our now-retired officers. Very truly yours, LEO E. LINUECK, President JAMES MASSEY, Vice-president MARK IiUR^'S, Treasurer EUGENE P. O'CONNOR, Secretary 
In my initial venture as a columnist^ I must say that I am ddightcd to be the information beacon for our Class. It was a wonderful experi­ence at the Reunion to obscr\*c the camaraderie and good fellowship that the members of our Class possess tOM-ard one another. I hope this column will assist in continuing the wonderful spirit our Cla5s has. 
It looks like the "Fighting Irish" arc ready for a national championship in football in 1966. My law partner, ED COSGROVE, attended the Northwestern game at E\"anston, III., and also attended a post-game party at the Edgcwatcr Beach Hotel with MARK BURNS, DON COS­TELLO, BOB CARR/\NE, JIM REVORD, JOHN DWYER and DAN O'SHEA. PAT CR:\DDOCK was abo in attendance. He is anticipating receiv­ing his LLB from John Marshall School of Law this June. AL VITT fonvardcd to me informa­tion that TOM CLAUSSON is now a chief reli­ability engineer with an engineering corporation in Sunni-v-ale, Calif. Tom stated that he sees W.ALT GILL, now with Phitco, at the Notre Dame Club meetings of West Central California Club, FRf\N­CIS DEGA has moved into Green Bay, Wis. and undoubtedly will sec the uorld champs of the NFL at Packer Stadium. 
DAVE BRUCKER is transferring from Buffalo, 
N.Y. to Bcmards\-ille, N.J. (41 Highview) and will continue as sales engineer with Louis Allis Co., Inc. Dave noted that ART O'CO.N.N'OR U \rith SyK-ania in Emporium, Pa. GORDON DI­RENZO is now associate professor of 50ciolog>- at the South Bend campus of Indiana U. JAMES MASSEY, professor of electrical engineering at the University, has been appointed visiting professor at XHT for the 1966-67 academic year. JOHN MEAGHER has written a new book. Method and 
Meaning in Jonson's Masques. He will continue 
his Jcavc of absence from the Univcnity by teach­
ing at St. Michael's Col. in Toronto this year. 
JAMES FINNEGAN has been named director 
of sales training by the Chicago division of the 
Kendall Co. ELMER ANTTONEN MA '56 has 
passed his oral exams for his PhD in education 
at Michigan State where he has been regional 
director of the continuing education scr\-ice for 
the past eight years. JOHN L. SELIS has been 
promoted to a manager at Arthur Anderson & Co. 
in their Cleveland office. JOHN CUEGUEN has 
become resident director of Richmond Park Edu­
cational Center in San Francisco. The center 
is operated by Opus Dei, an international asso­
ciation of Catholic professional laity dedicated 
to human and spiritual formation of young people, 
and offers general and specialized ser\"icc5 to boys 
from junior high through grad school. 
STEPHEN JOSEPH ROGERS JR. received his PhD from Harvard in June. CYRIL E. LINDE­MANN was named vice-president for sales and marketing at Scaman-Andwall in Lxonia, Wis. GER­ALD J. DEWEY is chairman of the social science department at Nazareth Col. Ife wrote an article, "Procreation: the Religious and Educational Fac­tors," for their ahimnae magazine recently. JAMES L. SHUNfAKER is now a Lt. Comdr. in the Navy and has completed one year of internal medicine residency at Bclhesda. He is now at the Washington Na\y Yard as a medical officer. 
AMONG THE ^^SSING—We'd like to know the whereabouts of CHARLIE DUR.\ND. PETE FIEWEGER, JERRY GATTO, DA.V GRIFFIN. AL HE.ALY, SAL PROFACI. JOHN J. REYN­OLDS. JI.\f SASSO, JOHN SOWA and CHARLIE PENNA. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 
of 0'Sl.a..gI.ness> to acc .vhw tuuld uuiLlufT whum. 
Of course, the clothes the wives wore told the 
true story. Will recap that event at the end but 
first the nevv's from the field. 
ED FECHTEL lias been appointed hospital ad­
ministrator of St. Mary*s Hospital in Athens, Ga. 
Ed has been asst. administrator since 1963. Since 
leaving the old Dome lie obtained his master*s 
from Emory U. and took his administrative resi­
dency at Duval Medical Center in Jacksonville, 
Fla. Glory be but letters have come from PAT 
SN'i'pER and JOHN SLEVIN. Pat reports that 
he is very much alive and practicing law in 
Oconomowoc, Wis. He is also the city attorney 
in the big *'0 " as well as making millions in his 
own pri^-ate practice. He joined up with "Luly" 
in '63 and they have produced two lovelies. Pat 
Slates that CY LI.VDEM.VNN is a neighbor and is 
VP of Seaman-Andwall Co. JOHN A. SLEVI.N 
reports in that not only lias he acquired a new 
iwo-and-a-half-acrc home complete with tenant 
house & stables in Peoria, but also a new partner­
ship called Vonachen, Cation, Lawless, Tragcr & 

Slevin. I would sure liate to be Trager and Law­
less shouldn't be cocky. 
KEN Rr\SHID is seri-ing with Uncle Sam in tlic out-patient ward of the Na\-al Hospital in Oakbnd, Calif. Ken is a psychiatrist and I have already sent him a few names from our Class. He has seen FULLER McBRIDE on his way to NAS, Lemoorc. Calif. Fuller is in obstctrics-g>-necoIogy and is raising five. This guy is practicing what he preaches. Fuller is also in the Nax'y. Ken ^vants to know if there is any word on JOHN WINNER, MIKE HARPER and DENNIS HOWER? Well, speak up, gentlemen. JOHN ROBINSON is one of our good doctors employed by the great Uncle. John completed his medical training in Memphis and u-as called in last August. He is stationed at Ft. McPhcrson, Atlanta. John also has seen PAT WILLIAMSON who b living in Mount Vernon, 
111. in the picture frame—moulding supplies business with his father. RAY De SUTTER is in business for himself in Attica, Ind. By the way, John has three future gridders coming into sliapc. 
DON RENIER is stockbroking it out Cal way in LA with Bateman, Eichler, Hill, Ricliards. TOM GUNNING joined Tri-Staie Tractor Co. as its controller. Tom has recorded 3 to 1 in favor of wc gents—and is also in Atlanta. GEORGE GRO­BLE reports that JOHN BRENNAN was recently promoted to asst. VP at 1st National Bank of Chicago. BOB COYNE has joined E. F. Hutton & Co. selling stock in Chicago. PAT SHEERLN Is with American Bank Note. DON FLOCK & spouse are raising a family in St. Charles, HI. where Don has joined ranks with three other architects. JOHN CUSACK is a big "Trust-Buster** with the US Attorney's ofiicc in the Windy City. Tlianks a million, George. 
BRI.-\N JOYCE was so shocked to see his name in print the last issue Tt moved him out of Omaha to Kansas City, Mo. to work for the Social Se­curity Adm. LUKE CARRABINE lias been ap­pointed superintendent of the electric weld depart­ment at US Steel in Gary. Luke really went right up through the ranks and all this with a degree in BA. (There is hope for all of us.) He is married and the father of two small welds. FR^VNCIS COOKE received his PhD from Rensselaer Poly­though he Is putting on the "dog" by living in Wcstport. John Is over at Marsteller Advertising after spending two yean as a copywriter with AIcCann-Erickson. Is married with two young'uni. John informs us that RAY LEGLER works for Western Reserve in Cleveland. MICK SP.AIN is teaching English at South Dakota School of Mines in Rapid City. FR.\NK BANTON is teach­ing high school English in New Jersey. TOM CALDERONE is the head golf pro at the Pitts­burgh Country Club. TIM McCORMICK is VP of Erie Asphalt and has five. Thanks, John, and we will be seeing a lot of you. 
RAY .McCLINTOCK has forsaken Hoosierdom 
for Mount Morris, 111. where he Is the communi­
cations supcr\-Isor for the Kable Printing Co. Ray 
is now communicating with three li*l ones that can 
be found in the front yard at 108 W. Front in 
Mt. Aforris. (Please do not request future ad­
dresses in Class column—space Is a premium and 
job is taxing.) JOHN NITK.\ is a project en­
ginrcr at Xerox in Rochester where he keeps In 
close company with other Xeroxians J. GALE­
HOUSE, T. WURZER, P. KRESS, G. YUR­
GEALITIS and DON RIMLINGER of Stromberg-
Carlson along with NORM KRAUSS of DuPont 
John saj-s that BOB O'NEIL has been transferred 
to ^Vashington, DC. BOB NOWAKOWSKI has 
left IBM to become a stockbroker for Sheason 
Hammill in Springfield, Mass. GREG SULLIV.AN 
is doing all right In Westchester, III. and he and 
Judy have produced number two. 
Watch out, Aral BIG TOM HUGHES is after your job for he Is presently the head coach of the semi-pro Portland Thunderbirds at night while he makes millions with Oregon Portland Cement dur­ing the day. He and his twin, G. C. "CHIEF" FOSTER, make one helluva combination. Good luck, T. Speaking of Portland, TOM HALEY and his BW came all the way for our little party after the game (you know where to go to borrow five g*s) as well as CHUCK GR.-\CE from Colum­bus, a gofxf Ctiicago crowd and others scattered from all points which space nor energy allows me to name. Also saw FRANK ZIOLA and plea.*e remember in your prayers his father as well as the father of FRANK HENNESSEY, both of whom died last July. JOE "SPIDER" REICH took one Ann McCarthy for his bride on Oct. I. The wedding took pbce In Okarche, Okla. 
Last, but not least, is the message that e\-ery­one MUST make the BIG lOth next June. The da>-s to circle are the 9, 10 and U. Please don*t fail for youVc only cheating yourself. Alake your pbns now. 
JOHN P. McMEEL 30 E. 42nd St., New York, N.Y. 10017 

Since our bst publica­tion we have been t graced with an im­proved response to our request for neu-s. The items submitted are as follows: JOE BUMBLE­BURG, 34 Lafayette Loan and Trust Bldg., Lafay­ette. Ind. reports on a gathering of the families of TOM CLUSSERATH. JERRY D.AHLE and GREG KILDUFF on the -Ith of July weekend in Ft. Wayne. Subsequently. Joe visited with the Clusseraths and JOE MARINO in Washington, DC. Joe Bumblcburg, by the way, remains a bachelor. JOHN KEHOE and his family, consisting of wife ^faurinc, sons Afark and Michael, and cbugh­ter Maureen, welcomed an addition to the family last April and christened her Colecn Therese. The Kehoes presently reside at 2616 Lincoln Lane, In­dianapolis. John has recently joined Ell Lilly and Co. Within the next year or two the Kehoes 
1958; 
expect to move to Lafayette, Ind. Tlicy request ncu-s of the families of GERRY GEXOVESE, JIM LAW and BOB NORRIS. JOE BIRKEXSTOCI 255 Grovcr Ave., Trenton, N.J. is a consulting chemist for Sadtler Research Labs in Phibdelphia. He is married to the former Marguerite Roughan and they ha\'e one son, Gregory. Joe 'would like to hear from classmates interested in skiing In Vermont this winter. 
JAMES F. KING MD dropped us a line relat­ing the follomng: Jim graduated from St. Louis 
U. School of Medicine in June, 1961 and there­after served a rotating internship at St. Louis U. This was followed by a three-year residency in in­ternal medicine at ^Vcstem Reserve U. Hosp. of CIcx-cland. Jim*s sub-specialty is gastroenterology. A fourtli year of residency* was completed this June. Jim is now with tlic Na\-j- for two years at Key West Na\-al Hosp., Fla. He and wife Charlenc and two daughters, Kathy (6) and Valerie (3), plan to return to Cleveland or Canton in '68. Jim would like to hear from JOHN KENNEDY, PAT HOGAN, C^TUL "JLM" McDONALD, iL\RK WESTER\^LT and JOE H. LEE, aU premcds in the Class of '58 and JACK SOUCY '57. Jim's address is 1222 Ashby St., Key Wcst^ Fla. 33040. 
JOHN McGINLEY was married Sept. 17 in St. Patrick's Cathedral N'YC to the former Saughon Anderson. John's bride is from East Pro^ndence, 
R.I. In the wedding party %vcrc PAT DUGGAN and BRUCE JUNIUS. The Juniuses \\cre expect­ing their first child early October. Pat Duggan remains yet unmarried. The new Mrs. McGinley, who provided tlic foregoing news, also reports that DICK MEYER is scning in Vietnam with AID. Dr. THOMAS P. MEIRINK, 24 Van Mark Way, St. Louis, Mo. 63144 was married Apr. 16 to the former Suzanne Wcidle MacDonald of St. Louis. CARL LENZO ^mtes that he was married in Jan., 1959 to the former Patricia Bodine in Dallas. They now have four sons: Stephen, David, Roy and Paul. In August, Carl received his PhD in meclianical engineering from the U. of Texas. He is presently teaching in the mechanical and aero­space engineering department of tlic U. of Ten­nessee. His address is Landoak Lane, Rt. 5, Concord, Tcnn. 
According to a card from his wife, JOHN P. VOLSKE is serving in Vietnam with the Army and is scheduled to rctwm home in Feb., 1967. John was among those present in the Victoria Hosp. in Saigon wiicn tt was blown up by the Viet Cong but he escaped injury* John's address: 1st Lt. John P. Volske 05519899, Adv TM-IOO (HOP-TAC), San Francisco, CaKf. 96243. BOB SPAHN of I9I3 Portsmouth, Westchester, HI. is no\v a chartered life underwriter with the North­western ^(utual Life Ins. Co. Bob has been a member of the Million Dollar Round Table for the last two years. He is married and has two sons, ages 5 and 3. Mrs. FRANK ^L\N20 dropped us a card reporting the birth of the Manzos' third child and first daughter, Mar>' Kathleen, bom last March. The two sons arc Michael 3 and Mark V/*, The Manzos reside in Newtown, Pa. 
RICHARD BREUNER has been named resident manager of Crown Zcllerbach's Carthage, N.Y. mill. KIRK WAGENSELLER Jr. lias been elected assistant cashier of the Wacho\-ia Bank and Trust Co. in Kinston, N.C. JOSEPH KNOTT has been appointed district sales manager for the Houston Chemical Corp.'s new Cleveland office. WILLIAM FANNING JR. has joined Meridian Ins. Co. as ofiicc services manager of the general ser\iccs division. Sister MARY FAITH LAUTZ MA *58 received another master's degree, this time from the U. of Iowa last summer. Dr. JAMES BOND has been named assistant professor of math at Penn State U. BERNARD LYONS and his wife have a new son, John Edward, and a new address: 10200 S.W. 164 Terrace, Miami, Fla. DON SCHUTT has been awarded ^vings as a flight officer for American Airlines. 
MORE LATE NEWS: 
I am pleased to report another successful and very well attended after-game reunion held Oct. 8 in the ^forris Inn follovring the Army game. Among those in attendance were: WALT HUUR­MAN, WALT KISLING, BUZZ MORAN, JOHN MORELAND, JOHN SULLIVAN, DAVE KRAMP, BILL OMIILL, JIM WALSH, ED HARDIG, FRANK KUCHTA, CHUCK LIMA, DICK PRENDERGAST, ED GLEASON, BILL WALSH. BOB iLASSMAN, BOB McGOVERN, AL WEINSHEIMER, RICK O'DON^'ELL, JIM GOETHALS, DAN XfcINERN'EY, DALE LA­RUE, JOHN HIRSCHFELD. JACK JfARTZELL. JACK MULVmiLL, JOE iLUUNO, ROD 
34 
ilETTE, JOE BUMBLEBURG, JOHN DINAR­DO, TOM O'REG.AN, MIKE LEYDEN, BILL JOHNSON, D.WE IMMONEN, BRUCE M.-\LEC, FRANK GIBBONS, ED HOURIGAN, KEN HEINE^LANN, FRANK FOX, GERRY GENOVESE, JIM McNA^URA, JERRY BURKE, RON DUR.AND, BILL GE.ARY. TOM GOZDECKI, MARTY LETSCHER, D.AVE LINK, JOHN McFADDEN, BILL REISERT, JOE ARNOLD, LEN BARBARISI, BILL SCAN­LON, TOM GARSIDE, Father DON McNEILL, and Father ED NASH. Please excuse any omis­sions; I am relying entirely on memory to estab­lish the attendance list. 
ARTHUR L ROULE, JR. 102T'Sf.,LaPorteJnd. 46350 
1958 LAW 
JOHN F. MARCHAL Marchal & Marchal, 116-118 W. 4th St., Greenville, Ohio 45331 
GEORGE RAAB JR. received his MS from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in June. 

PHIL "GUS" LUD­WIG writes tliat he is ^vith Douglas Missiles and Space Systems Div. as branch manager of finance at the home plant in Santa Monica. He is work­ing on his master's at UCL.\ in business. Gus is married to tlic former Jane Mundy and they are expecting their first child in February. GENE DUFFY has been hired by the NCAA to act as director of c\cnts. TOM HAWKINS has been traded by the Cincinnati Royals. Tom returned to the Los Angeles Lakers and to his and Doris's permanent home just outside LA. Tom is cer­tainly missed by Cincinnati sport fans with whom he has been a favorite for the past four years. ROY WESSEL writes that he is "working as a research associate at the U. of Chicago physics department where I have been since receiving a PhD from tlie U. of Michigan in '65. Have taken up a couple of sports, skiing and mountain climb­ing—that may surprise my old friends." Roy is still single and is living at 5712 S. Alaiyland Ave., Chicago. 
1959 
PAUL E. DALBEC MS '59 became an assistant professor of physics in the College of Arts and 
Sdences at American U., Wash., DC, this fall. 
BELA PIACSEK has accepted a position as a research associate at Har\-ard U. and is now fixing at 39 Carey Ave., Watcrtown, ifass. BOB GHELARDI has just returned to NT) with an NDE A Fellowship in sociology. Bob previously took an MS in English at the U. of Chicago with his ^Voodrow Wilson Fellowship. JOHN BEL-IiAIRS, also a Wilson winner in English who Studied at the U. of Chicago, has just had his 
St. Fidgeta and Other Stones published by Afac­
millan Co. There is a large ad in the Nov-Dec issue of Critic magazine plugging John's book. JOE KRUG has a new address and a new posi­tion: general credit manager for Mead Packaging. Joe lives at 4093 Admiral Dr., Chamblee, Ga. He made it north to South Bend for the Purdue game this fall. Capt. MICH.AEL PHENNER, a social aide at the White House, recently entertained Miss Ly*nda Bird Johnson at his family home ia ilcnasha, ^Vis. 
WARREN S. GINTDA recently graduated from Xerox's national sales dc\'elopment center in Fort Lauderdale. Warren is marketing team manager of the corporation's Des Moines branch. JOHN" \VHOLIHAN and wife Maricne had their first child, a boy, John Timothy Jr. on Sept. 22. John is asst. professor of business administration at Bradley U., Peoria, III. I talked with QUINN STEPAN, BARRETT GLEDCNER and BILL HICKXHN before the famous N*D-Purdue game. After the game I saw LARRY McGOVERN who is an attorney with Eastern Airlines, No. 10 Rocke­feller Plaza, NYC, and KEVIN SOLON, novf with the Swan Rubber Co., in Bucynis, Ohio. I also found out that Rev. DON SHOULBERG CSC is teaching at Notre Dame High, Niles, DI. PETE SALSICH wrute from Jefferson City, Mo., where he and Denise mov-ed a year ago. Pete is with the State Planning Office which is developing a new office of state government to concern itself with problems of metropolitan areas. Pete also sends news of CHRIS WALSH who is also in Jeff City as a sales representative for Recordak Corp., a subsidiary of Eastman Kodak; JOHN EDWARDS 
who 1$ in law school at St. Louis TJ.; and JOHN 
BOYCE who has recently returned from the Air 
Force to practice law in St. Louis County and 
Study for a master's in tax law at Washington U. 
The Image Makers and H. CRANE DAY have 

moved and may now be found at 141 Albion St., 
San Francisco. The property is a German Dance 
HaU called Albion Hall and records show that it 
was built prior to 1867. HUGH MURPHY is 
associated with an engineering consultant firm in 
Dacca, Pakistan and often pays \isits to Notre 
Dame College there, writes Father FRANK BUR­
TON CSC. Lt. ALEXANDER PASZLY has re­
turned from a year of voluntary service with the 
Nax-y in Vietnam. He ser\'cd as a supply advisor 
to the coastal force, which is engaged in patrols 
searching for contraband and smuggling. Alex will 
report to Pugct Sound Naval Shipyard, Bremer­
ton, Wash, for a new assignment. 
VICTOR BLANKENSHIP MS '59 has been promoted to mgr. of the re-entry vehicles technol­ogy section at Aerospace Corp. of San Bernardino, Cah'f. JOH.V KNOBLOCK has received a mas­ter's in educ from Rutgers. PHILIP CONNORS received his doctorate in physics from Penn State 
U. Sister LUKE HOSCHETTEE OSB MBA '59 received a master's in hospital administration from St. Louis U. On August 6, THOMAS KERR Mc-BRIDE took as his bride Margaret Mary (Sis) Reynolds SMC '64 in St. Giles Church, Oak Park, 
111. Sis is the sister of FRANK R. REYNOLDS JR. The e\*ent was almost a Class reunion with the raft of '59crs at the wedding. 
At long last, DENTCY NEAD, my predecessor as secy, has written from N114, WI3237 Vicksbuis Ave., Germantown, Wis. Denny is now mgr. of the Hartford Life Ins. Co. in Afiln-aukcc. Baby Jo Ann was bom in Sept., 1965 and there is another on the way in Jan., 1966. Sncad says he talked with BILL HICKMAN in Chicago where Bill is a stockbroker with Lehman Bros. When the Ncads arrived in ^filu-aukce JIXfMY JUST and family moved to Dallas. Nice guy, Jim! 
JOSEPH P. MULLIGAN 
2680 Lehman Rd., Apt. 42, 
Oncinnati, Ohio 45204 
Tlic informal reunion on Oct. 8 was a mod­erate Success. That means we were able to 

1960 
pay the bills. Almost everyone chipped in tlie cover charge win'ch was necessary to meet expenses. This didn't meet with everyone's approi.'al, but we tried. Comrades. The *Vc" means ED BULLARD to whom the Chss and I say, *'Thanks, Ed, for your efforts in ar­ranging the affair." Incidentally, Ed is with IBM in South Bend, is married to a lovely Chicago girl—ivhere else—and has a daughter, Laura. 
We would like to have seen more of you there, but maybe next year. As Jt ivas ivc had quite a roster of the sober (?) '60 in attendance. Among those attending, not necessarily in order of appearance, were: DREW BARTON and frau, Ann Lord SMC '60; KEITH MALCOLM, RON PAUL and DENNIS PHENEY and fraus enjoying the get-together. Dennis by the way is on the bench, legal not park, in Farmington, Mich. Con­grats to him and his new wife of last spring. The Bollards had DAVE HURD and his pretty wife, Abby, with them. 
Sara and BILL (MULREY—remember tliosc par-tics) KELLY of Pope, Ballard etc. & Fowle of Chicago and DDS DAN SCANLON and frau were in the area as were the Dr. JIM CROSSINs, JOE 
P. ALBRIGHTS, LARRY MARTIXs, Dr. JARDY DUBURGs and TED FITZGERALDs. JIM MURRAY, \«th Collins Radio as a systems an­alyst in Cedar Rapids, brought his wife, Mary Jo, to see the classmates. Among them were Mrs. BRAN'NON, Mrs. CORSON and Mrs. MacDOU-GAL who brought their associates BOB, BOB and the "Fox." As a matter of fact, I owe Corson a beer. "Fox" is in TV production in Afichigan, othen%ise not much of note as wc tverc all too busy drinking to talk much. 
Looking prosperous (that's polite for fat) w-crc CHRISTIE FLANAGAN and TERRY LALLY— their wives were pretty, not prosperous. The won­der of wonders is, how Terry can still swing that club. Would you belic\-e 250 pounds? TOM HIRONS brought his wife, Kathy, back to ND where he is teaching and studying. And Judy and MIKE ELLERMAN have just returned to Chi Town from the East Coast. Other new residents 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER \966 DECEMBER 
arc Mr. and Mrs. JOHN YOST in Dcs Plamcs. He's with Consocr-Townscnd & Assoc. JIM Mc-MULLEX and JIM CRONIN tipped a feu' while 

FROM PEACE CORPS TO COMMUNITY PUBUC SERVICE \
discussing what college squads the famous (?) Stanford Hall '57 team coutd have beaten. Re­member CORNELIA, CHONKO, FAVRET, HEE­

THOMAS G. PAULICK 'SI 
NAN, BRINKWORTH, etc? A very lovely, as 3lwa>-s, Carlyc Fitzsiramons BAKER and her friend WARREK told us about their IAVO children and travels over the past six years. They arc now in Detroit for a while, they hope. *'Bakes" had bits of information on the MALOXE and WHALEX-tj-pc Irish Mafia but yours truly didn't get it in writing. Maybe they'll let us know. 
Thanks to D. JERRY ^rcGLYX^* of the Mis­
sissippi Rivcrport Marina Corp., St. Louis, for 
helping at the door. Jcrr>" saj-s, "How about some 
poetry, Barry?" By the way, Steve, how do you 
spcH Gwynne, Guinc, i.e., aw\nv, forget it! JOHN 
McGEE and BOB "BEETLE" LA MONT.^GNE 
were ^vith two lovelies who did not look as if 
they were mates. But to try to get an introduc­
tion, forget it. M.C. and Bob acted as if they 
ported the only single girls in the place. Funny 
thing—tltcy did! What else can I say except JOHN 
(you're entitled to it) REISERT. TOM BATES 
had a drink, took a nap and came back again. 
It was a long, long evening so much so that JOHN 
LANDRY and PAT POTTER couldn't decide ^vho 
should drive. That u'asn't dlfHcuIt to settle once 
I learned that they had walked into town from 
one of the motels! But seriously, John's in Bir­
mingham, Mich, and Pat's in Detroit. Old P.J. 
is fat and happy—married and father of one. JIM 
DOHANY and JERRY MURPHY looked in. 
Jerry was dressed in buckskin and it ^vas difilctJt 
to decide whether he was western, artistic or mod. 
September correspondence: JOH N "PANTS" 
WALKER, NORB SPITZER, LATlRY MITCH­
ELL and PAUL MARTO arc in "Magnificent 
Monterey" at the Naral post grad school. John 
is midway through his EE master's. Thanks for 
the note, "Pants." Hi, Norb and Mrs. How 
about Enzensbcrger to SKRYZYCKI? That's what 
it will be Oct. 29 when Joan marries Bob. He Is 
currently selling for Thco. Bargman Co., a mobile 
homes parts and accessories dealer. 
Attention all wives! Follow the lead of Joy (Sheridan) COUSINO. Tear out the yellow card (Sept.-Oct. issue) or any scrap of paper and take pen in hand. "NEIL seems too busy to write so I will tell you tJiat wc were married in '62 after he received his MA at MSU. (Sec. note: Boo! Hiss!) We, one boy and two girls, are living in Eric, ^lIch. where Neil is manager for LJ. & 
B.L. Cousino Co." A hearty thanks to Joy for her effort. NEIL STALTER had a feu- «ords to say about a former composer of tlils column, but he crossed it out. Doubt if we could have printed it anyhow. Neil and Pat (Bruce, SMC '60) plus two little ones "strengthen that ^Iadison Ave. urge to create for casli." Neil is asst. adv. mgr. Plastics Div. NYC for Eastman Kodak. So how's about those lousy pictures they send back to mc—all out of focus, greenish, etc. 
RON PARKER writes: "Living in Torrance, Calif, with Joan and two sons. I am arch, design sup. of facilities dept. of TRW S>-stems. Am a registered California state architect and am apply­ing for corporate membership in the Amer. Inst. of Arch. I have two more years of AF Rescr\-e at Edwards AFB. I usually sec G.-\RY VICTOR, who is assigned to Na\*al Supply Center, Long Beach and is planning to go to the Art Center School." Does anyone have five or more? MIKE WARD, Pat and three boj3 (one due late October) are residing in N.J. wlierc Mike is a clicmlcal engineer for Esso's Petroleum and New Invest­ments Div. 
Well done, Tom. Ifany thanks to you and to the others who took the time to Say ^Tlello." TONI J. SALUTO, counselor and advisor. East Peoria Community H.S., and Jane Ann have just welcomed a son. Congrats, Toni. BILL McMUR-TRIE hasn't written so . . . Where arc J.C, SOWER, ZIPPY, LOMBARD!, EASTERLY, FINGERMAN . . . etc.? Keep those cards and letters coming in, folks. Old Shelb, June, Lu Ann, Mart Jo, Sophie, Zelma and I really ap­preciate 'em- IJntil 1957—May Peace be your gift at Christmas and your treasure in the coming year-
Vaya Con Dios. 
THOMAS J. O'CONNELL 3350 Everett Rd., Lake Forest, 
III. 60045 

ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 
Uf HAT does a Peace Corps vol­•• unteer do when he returns from his overseas assignment? For Thomas G. Paulick '61 the answer was to stay in public service. 
Since returning from his Latin American assignment ^^th the Peace Corps, Tom has joined the war on poverty and presently is engaged in training community representatives for the Office of Economic Opportunity in Chicago. There, according to Tom, more than in any other large city they are coming to grips with the prob­lems of urbanization. 
Tom's interest in public-service work was aroused during his junior year when he first learned of the Peace Corps. Coincident with his graduation was the University's first contract to train Peace Corps volunteers. He joined the vanguard of 45 volunteers who trained at Notre Dame the summer of 1961 and in October of that year left for his assignment in Rancagua, Chile. 
During his two-year tour in the remote Chilean village he had ample opportunity to demon­strate his diversified talents. Being one of the first Peace Corpsmen to arrive in the area he faced the im­mediate problem of determining just what to do. His first months in the area were spent getting ac­quainted \vith the people and their problems. He then set to work es­tablishing a school for teen-age farm boys. Set up in a converted farmhouse the school offered both academic and sports training. Tom himself taught history and geogra­phy for 18 hours each week and spent up to 10 hours weekly teach­ing sports. Not content to limit his activities to classroom instruction he engaged in "private projects" of setting up basketball and volley­ball courts and improving the soc­cer field. Outside the school Tom turned his efforts to working with the farmers of the region with whom he wTis active in developing cooperatives among the local jun-dos or farms. 
How does Tom feel about the 
war on poverty now being •jvaged throughout the country and partic­ularly in Chicago? "The need for this program is appalling," he an­swered. Speaking from the experi­ence he has had wth the Chicago Committee on Urban Opportunity, Tom added, "In emplojinent alone many business and industrial firms are currently faced with staggering recruitment and turnover prob­lems; yet, thousands of inner-city residents are unable to qualify for or retain these jobs for more than a short time. The war on poverty is attempting to grapple with this problem through trial-and-error training methods because there are no textbook answers to these problems." 
Tom then took the opportunity to tell a littie of the good his pro­gram is doing for both parties: "Recently, we engineered an on-the-job training program for beef boners with one of the largest su­permarket chains in the Chicago area. The company requested eight trainees. ^Ve cooperated in this ven­ture by recruiting men from one of our work-training programs (an effort aimed at developing work attitudes and meaningful work ex­periences) by screening the appli­cants, and by making referrals. The result has been that the trainees are now launched on a program which will eventually mean permanent, good-paying positions \vith excel­lent opportunities for advance­ment. Moreover, the supermarket chain has requested 12 additional trainees." 

According to Tom the irony of the situation is that often those who voice the most criticism of the pov­erty program are the very people who are reluctant to participate in any way towards achieving the goals in which they have a direct stake. "Mistakes have been made in the past and undoubtedly will be made in the future," admits Tom. "But this is no reason why the pro­gram should be abandoned. The American people can ill afford to repudiate the goals of the poverty program." 
his work for a MA in aero. eng. at ^iYU. Con­
^m ^ M ^^^ ^M I wtiuld first like to tliank 
• ^B^B ^^ V • the people who used the I ^^^ p ^^^ ^ I yellow tear-out card that was in the last ALUMNUS. 

LMt week I received a letter from JACK. CASTIX, my roommate at XD, and he informed mc tliat he was married on Aug. 27 to Dcbra Mirfin from Leeds, England. Tlicy were married in Okmulgee, Okla. and spent their honc>-moon in Xew Orleans. Jack and Dcbra arc II\-ing in Xor­man, Okb. where he is attending Oklahoma U. working on his master's degree. BILL BEXDER, after receiving a doctor of medicine degree from Duke U. Medical Center and interning a year at Grady Memorial Hospital, is now in his residency at Duke V. in iadiolog>-. JACK McL.\UGHLIX married Miss Frances SIinc>' in Xovcniber of 1965. Frances was doing graduate work in political science at Harvard when they met. Jack has spent two years in the Army (one in Korea), and has received his MBA from Har\-ard Business School. Jack and Frances are expecting their first child in January*. TTiey arc liWng in Manhattan and Jack is working as a financial analyst for IBM World Trade Corp. 
STEVE BEX.NTSOX*, after spending tlircc years in the Army, is a personnel director for Lytlnrc Industries in Lcnttown on Long Island. Dr. MICH.\EL SEHY and his wife, Sharon, are living in Xew Mexico where ^tikc is in the Air Force. A son, XficJiacl, was bom to the Schys on .Ai-g. 20. When Dr. Sehy completes his commitment ;n the AF, he plans on practicing optometr\* in Effing­ham, III. Ellen and MIKE ESPOSITO jist had tlieir second child. John Patrick, born June 3, joins his brother, Mike. Elten tcWs us that her husband is with the Chase Manhattan Bank where he has recently completed their special develop­ment program. D.-\X MITCHELL and his wife, Maurine, arc living in San Juan Capistrano. Calif, where he is working at KEZY radio broadcasting on SKW over Los Angeles from Disncyhnd. He was recently appointed general sales manager. Tlic Mitchelb have t^vo sons, Danny, 4 and Tommy, 15 months. 
THOMAS MARTIX lias received his MD from Ohio Slate U. and is interning at Mt. Carmel Hospital In Columbus, Ohio. He is married to the former Judith A. RIggs and has two children, Maria, 4 and Marly, 2- PAT NEE is editor and publisher of the Boston Spectator, a new magazine for exploring ideas, entertainment and the arts in the Boston area. ROX.ALD R. HERM received a master's from Harvard in March. JOHX CA­HALA X has been named an instructor in the de­partment of philosophy at Holy Cross Col. in Worcester, Mass. 
DOXALD T. DIETZ has been appointed as­sistant professor of foreign languages at Ball State U. Don and his wife, Kathleen, have one son, Joseph Donald. ROBERT DUSTERBERG received his MBA from Ohio State U. JOHX B. SXYDER received a master's in accounting at Ohio State U. RAY CURTIX is now a consult­ing coordinating engineer for GE and Is now-working at the Bull Plant 49. Angers, France. He is still unmarried. JOHX OLFV'ER will lead the Framlngham (Mass.) Choral Societv* this fall. He lias been active in conducting since graduation and has held numerous posts among them tliat of assistant conductor of the Xew England Consen-a­tory Chorus. He also has been associated with the Boston Opera Group. T bumped into MIKE CROXIX and his wife, Maggie, down at the X*D-Array game ^vherc wic had some coffee royale over at the ifonogram luncheon. Mike and Maggie have two little girls and they arc living in Chicago, ^likc is working as a stockbroker for Douglas Securiljcs. 
I do have more information but I will save it for the next issue. I have come to the conclu­sion that the parents like to read the ALUMNUS, too, and a special tlianks to them for sending in news. It is appreciated. Keep the news com­ing in and we'll try to keep tlic articles interesting. 
WILLIAM HENNEGHAN 30556 Scrivo Dr., Warren, Mich. 48092 
1967 LAW 

JOHN N. MORELAND Bookin & Moreland, 211 V2 E. Main St., Oftumwa, Iowa 52501 
Greetings from the "Land of the Rising 
Sm" \*hcrc I atn sta 
tioued at the IJSN 

1962 
Hosp in \okosuka as 

a dental ofiiccr until June, 19G9. Houx^Tr, I Itavc cx'cry intention of being home for our 5-year Reunion. Reserve tlic dates of June 9, 10 and U for our forthcoming Class Reunion. Plan now 
to attend! 
Rev. VIXCEXT HUTT was ordained June 4 In Dubuque for the Arclidloccsc of Dubuque. Father Hutt offered his first solemn Mass on June 5 in Marion, lon^a. Lt. TOX'Y HYDER and PETE GUZY scncd as acolytes. DAX ONHLIAXOWSKI, who Is at the U. of Wisconsin, also attended. Tony is at Wriglit-Patterson AFB in Ohio and Pete is at the U. of Kentucky. My old M^csth'ng opponent, JOUS ECK, checked in after a few years' absence. John and his wife, Linda, are now the parents of a daughter, Chris­tine, and a new son, John Jr. The Ecks live in Springfield, III. where John is with an accounting firm. John also serv*cs as secretary to the local XD club. We hear that Lt. GERRY O'XEILL USAF is now stationed In St. Louis. KEX J.AX­XOT is now living in Birmingham, Mich, with his wife, the former Maureen Hopkins, and their two sons. Ken Jr. and Mark. Ken was separated from the service in October 1964 and 15 a sales engineer for Detroit Edison. 
JOHX HOOD and wife Elaine arc the happy parents of Cheryl Ann and John M. II. John has gone into the grocery business for himself in Algona, lou-a. TOM BULL Is in his fifth >Tar of teaching English and history at John Adams 
H.S. In South Bend. Tom now has four daugh­ters. He is also kept busy serving as president of the local chapter of the American Federation of Teachers for the past three years. Recently, Tom was elected one of IG •vice-presidents of the AFT nationally. LEE V. KRZ^'AVKOWSKI has been accepted for the dactocu] program in social studies at Ball State U. WALT WILLIHXGAXZ Is in his junior year at Temple Med School. BILL C.ASHORE graduated from Pcnn Med School and is interning at Chicago's Wesley Memorial Hosp. He hopes to go into pediatrics. PAUL HYER is finishing his PhD In ph>'sics at the Institute for Planetary Fluid D>-namics at the U. of Marj'land. He is married to Eunice Edwards. 
Several new addresses: ROBERT W. CIHAK 

MD, 3248 SawtcUe Blvd. Xo. 4, Los Angeles 
9006G. JOHX BREXXAX, 1462 S.W. I9th Ave., 
^Ilaml, Fla. 
J.-\MES MURPHY sent on a note saying he's 

continuing his studies at U. of Houston tovords 
an MBA In marketing management. Jim remarked 
that on a recent trip to LA he was quite surprised 
and happy to run Into so many XD men. 
DAVID J. ED^VARDS dropped us a note from his Cliicago home. David and his wife, the former Connec Fox, have a little romper in James Brian V/s. David spends his working da>-s vrith Boyle Midway Corp. as a chemical engineer. TOM HAXSEX and wife Maureen (Curtin) have a baby boy in Tom Jr. born in May. To;n received liis MA in ed from Loyola of Chicago. The Hanscns make their home In Palatine, III. and Tom Sr. Is a vocational counselor at Forest View H.S. in Arlington Hts. EDWARD SCHXURR sent on a nice note from Louisville, Ky. Eddie was recently made a district sales manager for the Equitable Life Ins. Co. Congratulations, Eddie and Barbara, on the birth of Loretta Marie bom this June. Tliat makes the odds in favor of Loretta and Julianne. Oh well, Eddie III Is older at 3 an>-way. 
I was quite pleased to hear from TOM MAX­WELL who after his military service went to law school at the U. of Alabama. Tom graduated last >-ear and has been admitted to the Conn. State Bar and will be working in Conn, for the Allstate Ins. Co. Tom is single and living in Stamford. He remarked that he often sees JIM FITCH and his wife. Also, Tom ser\'ed as an usher at JACK WERMER's wedding bst August. Jack married Virginia Blessing of Dayton. Jack Is finishing up gratubtlons to Lt. and Mrs. DENXIS O'COX­XELL of Pbttsburgh AFB, X.Y. on the September birth of Micliacl Patrick. I understand that Vnilc Dennis Jr. and Brian arc quite excited, too. JOHX "MIKE" BREXXAX now calls Miami his home as he Is working In Miami and doing post­graduate studies at the U. of Miami. 
JOHX COSTELLO took part in the summer program for graduate students at the Aerospace Corp. where he served as a technical staff mem­ber. Tlic program is designed to Iiave tlie students apply their advanced education to v'arious tech­nical programs. BILL WTLDERS is a captain in the Army. He is currently stationed at head­quarters of the US Army Support Command in Vietnam where he scr\'cs as an information officer and is in charge of 50 officers and 400 en­listed men. JAMES CREAGAX has been accepted for appointment as a foreign service officer. He has not yet received his appointment to a par­ticular embassy or consulate. HARBHAJAX*^ SIXGH XAVAR MS '62 received IiIs PhD from the Graduate School of Rensseber Polytechnic Institute. 
Lt. JOHN D. BUTLER has been graduated from the US pilot instructor course at Randolph AFB, Tex. He has been assigned to Vance -AFB, Okla. as a member of the Air Training Command. Lt. VINCENT P. .\nCUCCI was graduated from the Air U.'s Squadron Officer School, Maxwell AFB, Ala. Lt. GEORGE J. GAUTHIER has assumed the position of research associate at the USAF Academy In Colorado. JOHX Rt\FUSE has accepted an appointment as a management intern with the Navy Dcpt. BOB KELLEY JR. has joined the State Dcpt. in Washington and will be there until the end of January when he will be given his first assignment. His address Is 1500 Xorih 12ili St., Ariington, Va. He married Kathleen Ken>-on Dec 18, 1965. 
Several members of the Class received advanced degrees from Harvard this June; DAVID L. CASTALDI, MBA with highest distinction; ROB­ERT J. CIHAK, MD; DOUGLAS DR.ANE, MBA: THOMAS GETTELFIXGER, MD; PAUL 
A. O'BRYAX JR., LLB. 
TERRENCE F. McCARTHY LT. (DC) USNR USNAVDENTCLINC, FPO San Francisco, Calif. 96662 
7962 LAW 

BILL MURPHY is now a partner in the firm of Luvchek and Murphy, 57 W. Main St., Freehold, 
N.J. He and Margaret Ellen have three children and arc living at 736 HoUv Berry Lane, Hcrberts­i.i!Ie, Bricktown, X.J. JI.MGOETHALS and BILL SCHRIGER have been in town within the last few montlis for various legal matters. Both send their regards and seem to have things pretty well in hand in Sturgis, Mich, and Rockford, IH.. re­spectively. 
Merry Christmas and Happy X'ew Year. 
PAUL K. ROONEY 
U.S. Courthouse, Foley Sq., New York, N.Y. 10007 
WILLIA.M HUGHES earned his MBA from the U of Denver. ED DELAHAXTY h a s 

1963 
been promoted to ac­tuarial assistant in the group annuity department at the home office of Aetna Life & Casualty in Hartford, Conn. Lt. E. G. MARCATO has flown more than 91 combat missions in Southeast Asia. He flies primarily '*NIght Owl" missions in around-the-clock harassment of the Viet Cong supply lines and storage areas. Lt. EDWARD CRUMP has graduated from the USAF F-4C Phantom II pilot course at Davts-Monthan AFB, Ariz. He Is being assigned to Bitburg AB, Germany. 
JAMES NOVAK has been appointed assistant pi oduct manager for the Pfizer Labs. Div. of Chas. Pfizer & Co., Inc. THOMAS O'GRADY was named to the Dean's List at the Law School of St. John's U. at the close of the spring session. MARTIX GAUTHIER Is now quality control supervisor for Sylvanla Electric In Exeter, X.Y. He and his wife spent the July 4 »*cckcnd visiting with PETER HARD­ING and BILL DINGER. Several members of the 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 
Class received advanced degrees from Harvard this June; EDMUND A, COLLINS, LLB; JOHN D. FISCH, LLB; PHILIP LARRABEE, LLB; JOHN McG\BE, LLB; EDWARD TUCKER, LLB; THONLVS VOLLMER, LLB cum laude; DENNIS WALSH, AMT; JOSEPH GREEN, LLB. THOM­AS CALOGERO Jr. received an MFA from the 
U. of Iowa this August. 
ROBERT JUSTER was married on April 16 to Miss Gail T. Wilkinson in Fair Lawn, X.J. They arc now living at 1279 B. Valley Rd., Wayne, 
N.J.
 07470. OILMAN PAUL SCHIMMOLER re­ceived Im MA in ps>-cho]ogy from Northern Illinois 

U.
 this summer. JOHN W. AREHART received his master's in hbtory from Western Michigan. GARRON L. KLEPACH is enicring his junior year at the Cornell U. Medical Col. Lt. HANS 

H.
 GRAUERT is a navigator-bombardier in heavy attack Squadron 8 aboard the USS Constellation which is currently off the coast of Vietnam. 


J.AMES KELLEY is practicing law with the firm of Lane and Watennan in Davenport, Iowa. Lt. MIKE MAGUIRE returned from Vietnam in late '65 and is now stationed at Chcrr>* Pt., N.C. with his wife and two daughters. MIKE GREEN is working in the business development dcpt. of the American Natl. Bank in Beaumont, Tex. Mike and wife. Alary, were Joined by son, Thomas Micliacl, bom Dec. 16, 19G4. BOB ST^VNOJEU is living in Indianapolis with his wife and three children and working for RCA as a s>'stems rep for their electronic data processing div. MIKE BURKE and wife rcrccntly became proud parents of a daughter, Jennifer Sfaric. Mike h working on a master*s at Santa Clara U. and teaching English at Mt. Pleasant H.S. in San Jo«c. 

DICK TUSHLA is starting his senior vear at X-braska U. Med School. NICK H.AVEL and DAVE STEGMAN are completing studies at Crrighton U. Medical School. GEORGE a\N ­NON, JLM ANTHONY, BILL SMITH and your reporter recently went on active duty with the Army sen'ing as captains in the Judge Advocate Corps. During the past summer George was ad­mitted to the Virginia Bar, Jim to the Indiana Bar, Bill to the Missouri Bar and yours truly to the Connecticut Bar. Stationed with the Army in Washingion, DC arc CHUCK LAUER, CHICK SATRIANO and SKIP KAISER. Lt. HANK RITTER is with the Army in Vietnam. 
LEE PIOUARCY and G. PATRICK ARNOULT graduated from Vandcrbilt Law School and were admitted to the Tennessee Bar during the summer. MIKE SQUYRES rcccnUy finished work on an MBA at U. of Chicago. He is now with United Air Lines. Rr\Y STARMA N graduated from ND Law Scliool in June and plans to enter the Army soon. Lt. PETE CERROW is flj-ing Phantom jets at Cam Ranh Bay, South Vietnam. 
I apologize to all of you who have written and whom I have not mentioned in this issue. There are, however, space limitations placed upon the secretary and your missives will head the next column. Keep the mail coming. 
FRANK P. DICELLO 
218 Palmer Hill Rd., 
Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
1963 LAW 

You will recall that in the last issue I extended an open invitation to visit with us on home game weekends. The invitation, of course, is still open; however, in the future I would appreciate it very much if those needing one would plan to bring their own midwife. ED FILLENWARTH and family arrived on Friday for the Purdue weekend and stayed for almost a week, departing from here with a new son, John Edxrard. PAUL DRISCOLL aho vnsited w*itli us over that weekend after spend­ing a summer sabbatical at the Cape. From all reports he vcr>* ably carried on the traditions as established by BUD MALONE. Paul left for Los Angeles to work in the legal service program under the auspices of the OfHcc of Economic Opportu­nity. DENN'Y POWELL is engaged in similar work in Northern California and he and Jeanne send Word that they have a new son, Samuel. 
Sandy and JIAf LEKIN visited with us last August on their \x'ay to Iowa for vacation. Look out, Jim, in view of the recent announcement on draft status you might have a new employer before you know it. Speaking of the service, BOB XOE writes that PAT CULLEN is counting the days until he parts company with the Army. Don't hold your breath, Pat. Bob also informed us that his second son, Gregory Robert, was born last March 14. 
Wc have received word that Mary Ann and JIM 
EQUIPPED WITH AN AUTOMATIC 
and garbed in his own unique com­bat dress (to include ND T-shirt] En­sign Doug Branson '65 operates from aboard a minesweeper somewhere off the coast of Vietnam. His mission— known as "Market Time"—is to board and search suspicious junks while also aiding in the evacuation of villages and the landing of troops. Doug is due for rotation back to the US early this summer. 
WYSOCKI arc vcrj- Iiappy with their home and 
^%-ork and extend an open in\-itation to drop by 
when anyone from the Class is in New Orleans. 
Jim has been very active since he left Notre Dame 
h.iving received a degree in the Napoleonic Code 
from Loj-ola U. of the South; served as recording 
secretary" to the New Orleans cliaptcr of the 
Federal Bar i\ssn.; ser\*ed as district director for 
the Fifth District of the Young Law%-«rs Committee 
of the Federal Bar Assn; acted as chairman of the 
Greater New Orleans Trial Lawyers' /\ssn's seminar 
on Product Liability Law; and in April of 1966 was 
elected president of the New Orleans Chapter of the 
Federal Bar /\ssn. Jim is presently associated with 
Ungar, Dulitz and Martzell of New Orleans. 
JOHN COSTELLO, South Bend's answer to Perle 
Mesta, threw one of his enormous parties in cele­
bration of the victory over Purdue. Among those 
present were the STUCKOS, GOULDS, MULVI­
HILLS. McANDREWS, MANDYCKS. LLOYDS, 
KELLYS. CLIFFORDS. JOHN MARTIN, PAUL 
DRISCOLL, ED FILLENWARTH and yours truly. 
More information is needed so lct*s start com­
municating. 
JOSEPH R. SULLIVAN 1526 E. Cedar St., South Bend, Ind. 466U 
ADRIAN KLNG and JAY KINNEY arc in their third year at Temple Law School. 
1964 

Adrian ^^•as married to Carolyn Doxsey this Sept.; next June he will begin serving with the Afarincs as a lieutenant. MIKE MESTROVICH is returning to Notre Dame with his new bride, Jane, to start work on his PhD in economics. Mike received his MBA in business from Duqucsnc and was offered a teach­ing fellowship by ND. At Catholic U. Law School is DICK GALIHER who writes that he recently heard from GEORGE ZIMMERMAN who is a lieutenant with the Signal Corps in Vietnam. 
ND grads in their third year at Northwestern 

U. Law School arc: ED DUNNE (Dean*s List). TOM DUMIT (Law Review), GENE McGUIRE fstudcnt body president), BILL PFIEFFER, GENE KOSTER, JLM HADDED, DICK KENNEDY and DENNW O'NEILL. ER-VEST "BUD" ARRAS was recently wed to Kathleen Boyle at Sacred Heart on the campus. Bud is in medical school at the U. of CaKfomia. DAVE RIVOIRf\ is on his way to Germany with his wife Cathie for a two-year stint with the Army as a lieutenant. His letter also included the following points of in­terest: BOB DRAG.ANI and his wife are stationed at Fort Lee, Va. PETE MANGELLI completed 
his Army tour last June after a year in Anetnam. He and his wife Jane are currently Hving in New Jersey. JOHN KIEXER is working for Addresso­graph in Cleveland and attending Western Reserve 
U. for his MBA. Lt. D.WE FESKE is with the Navy and began duty in Yietmun this September. TOM SWrrZER completed his Peace Corps as­signment this June and I received a fascinatins letter relating his experiences as a medical as­sistant and traveler throughout Africa. When his tour is up Tom will return to Denver to study law at the U. of Colorado \vx the Middle East and Orient. 
Martha and TOM AIONAH.AN are the proud parents of a recent arri\'al—Michael Thomas. The Monahans are living in St. Louis, Mo. Lt. JOHN BANKS took a break from his duties as Signal Corps platoon leader in Vietnam, Qui Nhon, to drop a h'nc and mention that he received his AfBA from Central KCchigan U. prior to entering tlui Army. Lt. JOHN L^ESTRANGE received the Bronze Star for bravery in Vietnain. Johnr—with the Marines—planned, supervised and led numer­ous patrols while stationed there; he is now 3 safety officer in San Diego. Another grad in Vietnam is Lt. JOE ADRIAN who is flying F-IOO Super Sabres out of Bien Hoa. BOB TOTH^ his wife Connie and new son Nicholas are in Iowa where Bob is a sales rep for Xerox Corp. 
JIM ALEX.ANDER was promoted to ass*t ex.' 
ecutive placement director at J. C. Hudson Co. in 
Michigan. He and his wife I^m welcomed a new 
addition, Paige Marie, and join the lengthy list of 
proud new parents. Lt. ALAN SCOTT is with 
the Signal Corps in Vietnam stationed about 15 
miles from Saigon at Long Bink. P. J. SHELLEY 
received his master's in teaching from N D and for 
the last year has been teaching English at Cliffside 
Park High School in New Jersey. He and his wife 
Lois are living in Fort Lee, N.J. and awaiting 
tlic arrival of a new Shelley early next year. PAT 
MURPHY, his wife Norma and their daughter 
Kelly (with No. 2 due in early November) are 
in Ann Arbor while P^t is attending the U . of 
Michigan Medical School. Fat wilt receive his 
MD in June. 1967. 
JOE GAYD.\ is engaged to Ellen Kanzleitcr wt h tlic wedding planned for this fall. His best man will be BILL KIERNAN, also from '&•. Both Joe and Bill received their MS from the 
U. of Iowa last summer and Joe received a com­mission in the Public Health service and will be spending the next two years at the National Insti* tutes of Health in Bcthesda, Md. PETE SOZ.AN­SKI is working in San Fernando, Spain for the Smittisonian Astrophysical Observatory. He was married to Sandra Sosda in Cranston, R.!. July, 1965. BILL BURNS was married Oct. 22 to Dorothea Hansen in Phihdelphia where Bill is working for Humble Oil. Following a honeymoon in Bermuda^ they will return to Gloucester, N.J. 
Please be sure to note my change of address. Following graduation from Stanford Business School. I moved to New York to begin work with Chase Manhattan Bank. 
WARREN C STEPHENS 1100 Clove Rd., No. 5-C Staten Island, New York 
1964 LAW 
The presses roll again with (a) an apology for the absence of a column in the last issue—^your scribe had the flu at deadline time; and (h) deep thanks to TOM KERN for taking charge of get­ting information about the Duke game get-together out to the class. A full report on that weekend will appear in the next issue. 

During a recent trip to Rochester I ran into DAVE PETRE at the Hall of Justice. He hopes to make the Duke party and appeared to be in the best of health and spirits. Dot and CHARLIE SACHER write to say they'll soon be living ini Ft. Lauderdale at 2130 N.E. 65th Ct. Charlie will be practicing with Saunders, Curtb, Ginestra & Gore, a Arm which numbers among its members KEVIN LYONS LLB '62. Had to get back to that Florida sun, eh, Satch? 
"MOVER" MIELE and his Missus just "hap­pened" to be in Chicago on Oct. 7 and accom­panied yours truly to the "Bend" to watch the Irish shut out the Corps. Frank took my tickets so he and Karen could sit together and he scraped up an odd one for me. Next time, Frank, you sit on the 40 and Fll sit in the end zone! Also at that game were: The JIGANTIs, the KOPKOs, the GALLICKs, the CASHEs, the ZAVODNVIKs, the MILLERS, the VAIROs, the PFEILERs, Mr. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 
"JUSTICE" FIXDLAY, MIKE MESSINA and, single. PHIL M.-\N~rEY wIU receive his master's ushering and warbling the *Ave Maria,' *PanIs of couisc, the "COMMODORE." in electrical engineering from ND in January. He Angelicas' and of course, the 'Alma Mater.' '* 
Short notes: JACK RAMMEL about to be plans to enter Navy OCS this coming summer. sprung from the Anny and the MIKE STEPAX-CHUCK WATSON is the father of a baby boy. JOHN A. HAUTER EKs sprang by the Army from Ft. Sheridan to His wife Ann presented him with Chris last June. sunny Arizona. CHUCK SWEENEY is now prac­Chuck is associated with Clark Equipment in Bu* 1050 Indiana Ave., Glenwood,. 
ticing in South Bend and hopes to be wealthy enough before long to buy a boat like LOU PFEIL­ER*s! As of Nov. I, I will leave the good hands of Allstate and join ^fORIARTy '5IL, Rose and FACCEXD.A '51 in the general practice of law. 
Keep the letters coming—especially an}*onc who can let us know where CHARLIE MacFARL.ANE and BOB HANLO N are. Happy Thanksgiving! Mcn^' Cliristmas! Haaapyj*}- Ne^^• Year! The Old Doc, Lo>'al Scribe. 
THOMAS F. CONNEELY 556 Elmwood Ave., Evanston, 
III. 60202 
Our reunion following the XD-Purduc game was wclNattcndcd and provided cvcr>-onc an 

1965 
opportunity to catch up on the latest neu's. In fact, its success warrants consideration of arranging a similar reunion cvcrj­football season. 
The most distressing and grievous news to report is the death of ED DALTON. Ed v%-as killed in August while serving as an Army second lieutenant in Vietnam. .After graduation and before leaving for Iiis duty in Vietnam, Ed spent a summer train­ing in infantry- at Fort Bcnning, Ga. An appro­priate expression ot our condolences would be his remembrance in our prayers. 
PETE VINSON lias been promoted to the rant of Fint Lt. USA. Pete is serving as special agent in charge of the Cam Ranh Bay Field Office, 524th Military InleHJgcnce Detachment in Vietnam. He reports haWng seen Lt. VINCE DELMO.NTE, STRATCOM in Nha Trang and Lt. BOB CIR.-\L­DO, First Logistical Command, Saigon, and JOHN SCHNIEDER with an engineer unit in Saigon. Lt. JIM KELLY is stationed in Lung Binh, Vietnam as the adjutant of the G4th Q^f bn. Jim's outfit is known as the ''Rolling Pipeline" of Vietnam. In his travels he saw KEVIN REGAN who's serving as a forward observer for a how­itzer battery of the llth Armored Ca\-alry Reg. 
LUIS HIDALGO lias accepted a position as as­sistant engineer with DeLcuw, Cother &: Co., an international firm of consulting engineers. Luis is living in Chicago and is working for his MBA at the U. of Chicago. DOUG BRANSON is serving in Vietnam aboard a minesweeper where his mis­sion is tliat of a boarding officer. He also claims to be the only vrarrior over there who wears an KD tee-shirt into battle. BILL McGRAW was married in September to Priscilla Shaffer of To­ronto, Ohio. Bill spent his honcvmoon in Hot Springs, W.Va. TOM O'SHAUGHNESSY joined the list of married ones in July. He utis married in Chicago to Paulelte Kryston and is now in his third year of law school at ND. RAY McLAIN finally gave up all his profound belJcfs in bachelor­hood and was married in August lo Sue Semitekol in the Log Chapel at ND. Ray is working for his PhD in sociology at the U. of Illinois. 
ED F.\NNING was presented last May with a baby girl, Mary Kathcm, by his vrifc Joyce. Ed is living in Aurora, 111. and is asst. sales manager for Fanning Chevrolet. Special deals are oflTcred by Ed to all ND men. RICK CAREY is in his second year at Chicago-Kent Col. of Law and is working part time for Montgomery Ward as an accountant. TOM HAWKINS is attending Med School at the U. of Illinois and reports that he loves both medicine and the nurses. WTLLI.AM *'ROCKE" GARCIJ\ informs me that contrary to the news reported in the last ALUMNUS he is not married. His announced "spouse" is married to BILL SLATTERY. Rockc is working for his father's construction firm while awaiting duty in the National Guard. Sorry about the mistake. 
RICK DEVLIN was married to Marcia Gumz SNfC '65 in North Judson, Ind. over the Labor Day weekend. WU wonders never cease? JIM "SH.\DOW" MURPHY is studying medicine at UCLA and has been elected president of his school's chapter of the Student American Medical Assn. With the post came an all-cxpcnse trip to Chicago to attend several national meetings. JIM STOl2ZE Is working on his MBA at the U. of Michigan. Upon completion of requirements he win enter the Army. PETE JOST has accepted a position in the international banking department of the Continental Bank of Chicago. Fete is still 
chanan, ^lich. WYN NORRIS was married in June lo Carolyn Ruth Hill of Waco, Tex. His wedding party con* sisted of PAUL DELL'OSSO, RICHARD MO­NASTRA, DON ZELLER and NASH FLORES. W>-n b working on his MBA at the U. of Texas and hopes to have it completed by next August. He reports that JOHN RIFFLE left for Vietnam in July and is serving with the Army. And that NHKE HEIN'Z and FRED HOWARD spent the summer working at the Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston. BILL WELCH left the Mar^knoU Ivlissionary Seminary and Is now studying law at Fordham. PAUL RUBELI was married in Sep­tember to Maurcne Hiclody. Paul expects to graduate from Columbia U. Business School In a year. JIM BURKE was married in July to Cathy Montgomery of Mt. Kisco, N.Y. Jim is now liv­ing in Schenectady, N.Y. where he is employed by GE. RAY BLAKE is engaged to Lynette Sarow and plans to be married in June. Ens. HOWIE LANSER is stationed in Quonset, R.I. Howie will be in the Navy for one more year. JOHN J. SMITH is working on his master's in education at Brown U. Utilizing his experience gained at ND, John is also coaching Brown's freshman lacrosse team. MATT LEUCK has accepted a position vriih the Chicago accounting firm of Peat, Manrick and Mitchell. BILL BOYLE made his first religious profesaon as a Paulist Father on Sept. 8 at Ml. Paul Novitiate in Oak Ridge, NJ . He will now study at St. Paul's Col. in Washing­ton, DC. And In September, I became engaged lo Kalhy Bayer SMC '66. We will be married June 24 which will give us a week before the start of my third year in medical school at Ohio State U. 
JAMES P. HARNISCH 71 Poland Manor, Poland, 
Ohio 44514 
1965 LAW 

I w-as pleased and surprised recently to receive a call from MIKE BISHKO here in "Chi Town" who was spending part of his vacation with a cer­tain young lass. The "Blsh" informed us of TERRY WOCHOK's recent marriage to Judy Scheive of LaGrange. Terry, we hear, is working as an insurance adjustor and is the personal cam­paign manager of a Phibdelphia congressman. "TEX" DUTILE Is no longer affiliated with the Justice Dept. He has plans of teaching criminal law and property at Catholic U. Law School. Our best to you, Tex! The new address for the Dutilcs is 5433 16th Ave., Hyattsvillc, Md. 20782. 
Want to hear something funny! Bishko is an MP in the National Guard. 
Recently heard from JIM HEIMBUCH who has settled down to "wedded bliss" (May 14), and is now associated with the firm of Bodman, Long­ley, Bogle, .^^nst^o^g and Dahling of Detroit. DOUG SPECIA and Laurie represented the law school by attending the wedding. 
Sound the cannons, blow the bugles! History was made on July 29!!! The first set of twins bom to any 1965 law couple came to Sue and ART HOOVER. Carol and FRANTC KILEY were the godparents to Jeffrey Hoover and "Cat" vi,-as god­father to Jennifer Hoover. Our congratulations to the proud parents. Speaking of RICH CATEN­NACCI, we received a scoopy letter from him that bears quoting. He concurred with Mike BIshko's claim that JOHN CRAVATH LUCIDO is to be married to "streamlined Detroit Carol.'* They plan to reside in N.Y. at 30 E. 95th St. Since I would fear it would lose something In translation, I quote the following from **Cat's" letter: 
"Second only to the Johnson-Nugent spectacubr was the Delia Maria-Weldner nuptial of June 25. Representing '65L were JIM FLYNN, m>-sclf, and of course, SNOWFLAKE WEIDNER himself. The four-day sojourn in Chicago v^tis fabulous: Thurs­day—bachelor party at Johnny Lattner's followed by intemperate drinking (GROTE SULLIVAN in attendance liad to leave for National Guard inaneuveis on the South Side before the recep­tion); Friday—dinner party hosted by Mr. Ham Weidncr; Saturday—reception at the Drake, post-reception party hosted by Chlcagoland's most con­genial couple, Man- and Joe Delia Maria; Sunday ^->*achting on Lake Michigan. I did double duty 
III. 60425 
Well, it's that time of year again wlicn we're all accustomed to re­turning lo the Golden 

1966 
Dome and "cracking tlie books" again; Iiowcvcr, except for a very few of us, this fall will see us following difTcrcnt patlis. Law School has claimed many of us. Some of the prospective attomej-s arc JA^^IE TOOHEY, JIM MURRAY, BARRY McNAMARA and FRANK MURTHA who arc studj-ing at North­western; JOHN PHfLLIPS, DREW KIRSHIN and JOHN BUCK arc at Texas Law School; and PAT LINSKY and PETE BROWN at Fordham. Loyola Law School has claimed PETE CAREY, GOfUX)N NASH, HARRY LONG, J^^t PHE­LAN, MIKE MURPHY and MIKE CORRIGAN. DICK LaPORTE b at Duke Law School; BOB GUENARD at Cornell; PAUL WALKER at Penn­sylvania; JIM GALLAGHER and BRIAN DO.V­NELLY at Georgetou-n; MIKE McKIM at St. Louis; ED CALIOR at Pittsburgh and PAT COONEY, H.ARRY McDONAGH, SCOTT AT­WELL and JIM STARSHAK at Notre Dame. 
Business schools are also blessed with an abun­dance of '66 men, among whom are JOE KING, BILL BENDER and TOM MULVIHILL at Har­\-ard; BILL O'DONNELL at ND; TOM Mc-MANMON at Dartmouth; JOHN McCANN at NYU; BILL SCANLON at Wisconsin: DAN OLSON at Michigan; and MIKE McCARTHY at London School of Economics. PETE BUDETTI is at Columbia to study medicine. ANDY IPPO­L m is at Tubne and JIM MURPHY at Mary­land to do the same. JOHN CHESHIRE is at ND to study psychology and JOHN T^VOHEY at Columbia to study journalism. JOHN CAVAN is enjoying his job with American Tcl. and Tel. in New York. John will be attending NYU Gradu­ate School this fall and w*iU continue to work with AT&T. 
The wedding bells rang out for quite a few of the members of the Class of *66 this summer. Besides those already mcnlipncd in previous ar­ticles, there were at least half a dozen others who left the single ranks. JOE SOMMERS was mar­ried on Aug. 6 at Sacred Heart Church on campus. MINCH LEWIS was married on Sept. 10. DENNY GRAY was married on July 2 in Long Island. Among those present were ANDY IPPO­LITL JI.M MURPHY and MIKE STOLTZ. Denny will enter medical school in the fall. DICK KENNEDY wt« married on June 25 in Holyoke, Afass. Classmates present at the wedding were VINNY UHL, PAUL SESSA (who was another summer groom), P.AUL SAUER, BOB PLANK and HARRY McDONAGH. Dick is working with the Federal Housing Administration in New York and will enter the service at the first of the year. JIM PHELAN was a groom on Aug. 27 in Oklahoma. Men of '66 there to sec him take the big step were JIM GALLAGHER, BOB LUETKEMEYER, BILL BREEN, JOE ROBI.V­SON and GEORGE SCHAEFER. Jim and his lovely bride honeymooned in Colorado and now live in Evanston. TOM DOTY and Jean ifat­schullat were married Sept. 17 in Sacred Heart Church on campus. JOHN KUMINECZ was best man vrith FRANK ZIRILLE '65 and HENRY POLICINSKI '65 and '66 in the wedding party. Tom is an ensign In the Navy and is stationed in Seoul, Korea with the 8th Army as a press escort. 
The president of the Class of ' ^ was also married this summer on Sept. 3 in Chicago. TERRY GOLDEN, DREW KIRSHIN, BOB GLENN, D.\N OLSON, BILL SCANLON, GOR­DON NASH, PETE CAREY, JOE PETE WIL­BER and JAMIE TOOHEY were among those present at this real Texas-style wedding. 
We were all greatly grieved by the death of classmate DICK WILLIAMS. We ask you to please remember him in your prayers. Dick was the kind of man the Class of '65 could always be proud of. I'm sure I express the scnttmenis of our whole Class when I say it was truly a priv­ilege to be a classmate of his. 
RICHARD ANGELOni 1404 Greenfield Dr., Erie, Pa. 16512 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER }9ii DECEMBER 
THOMAS L 

I Lauv
SHAFFER 
N OTRE Dame law students are in their second year of assistance to the poor through offices of the Legal Aid Society of St. Joseph County. The Society, operating in co­operation wt h the University and the local war-on-poverty agency, AC­TION, Inc., maintains do\vntown and neighborhood law offices in South. Bend. Law students working in the program are supervised by Adjunct Professor Conrad Kellenberg. The program employs two regular at­torneys—Edward C. Hilgendorf '59 and '60L, senior attorney; and James G. Stapleton '56, staff attorney. 
The project is financed by the fed­eral Office of Economic Opportunity, by the University and by the local United Community Services. It as­sists poor clients in South Bend in civil matters—including disputes wt h landlords and welfare agencies, money lenders and retail merchants, and in domestic relations cases and minor criminal matters. Major criminal mat­ters are handled by the St. Joseph County Public Defenders with whom students are also working. 
Students participate %vith attorneys in interviewing the offices' clients; they research legal problems, investi­gate facts and draft documents and pleadings. The program aims at a minimum student participation of one afternoon a week. Students are able to obtain second-year research paper credit in the project, as well as third-year seminar credit. Many are, how­ever, volunteers—including five mem­bers of the student Legal Aid and Defender Association. The project is supported by the St. Joseph County Bar Association; ten of its members sit on the project's governing board along -with Dean Joseph O'Meara and Assistant Dean Thomas F. Broden Jr. KSG of the Law School. 
In addition to direct legal services, 
JAMES G. STAPLETON Legal Advisor for Poverty Program 
School 
students in the project are engaged in educational programs for church or­ganizations, civic clubs and other groups of the poor. These programs— many of them given by students under Prof. Kellenberg's direction — cover the rights of borrowers, tenants, wel­fare claimants, criminal defendants and parties in domestic relations pro­ceedings. Second-year students, wt h Prof. Kellenberg and Dean Broden, presented a sbc-week course covering these subjects for the local agency as­sisting migrant farm workers, Centro Cristiano de la Comunidad, last year. Current plans are to repeat the proj­ect this year. 
Fall Enrollment Two hundred twenty-five students enrolled in the Law School in August; 104 of them new students, 57 in the second-year class and 64- in the third-year class. They come from 78 colleges and 34 states. Twenty percent of diem are married, six percent veterans. They range in age from 20 to 37. Eighty percent are between the ages of 21 and 24. Two of the first-year students are women. Fifty-nine law students — roughly a quarter of those enrolled—are Notre Dame graduates. 
The students will complete their first semester before Christmas vaca­tion under the Law School's new cal­endar. Second semester will begin January 16 and finish May 18, end­ing in time for graduating students to enroll in bar-review courses and other Students to begin desirable summer employment. 
Lawyer Alumni. Banquet facilities for this year's meeting of alumni of the Notre Dame Lawyer^ October 8, were packed, and discussion sessions with this year's Lawyer staff were well at­tended. The meeting, directed by cur­rent Lawyer Development Editor John 
W. Nelson, was generally considered the most successful of the three an­nual sessions. 
Alumni and Faculty Notes. John C. Palmer '56, an attorney with Chicago Tide and Trust Co., died August 12. His wfe Marilyn and four children survive and are living at 1334 Central Avenue, Deerfield, 111. 
Prof. Edward F. Barrett addressed a group of the American Association of University Women, October 15, in South Bend. His topic was the jury system. 
Prof. Harris VVofford — now on leave — is the author of "Toward a Draft Without Guns" in the October 15 Saturday Review. Prof. Wofford is chairman and associate director of the educadonal task force for the Peace Corps. 
Joseph S. Slade died on November 9 following a short illness. A member of the Law Class of '61 he was on the staff of McGladrey, Hansen, Dunn & Fladey, a public accounting firm in Elkhart. His wdow, Alice, and their infant daughter survive and are Uving at 606 W. 8th Street in Mishawaka. 
Captain Charles A. Sweeney Jr. '64L was separated from Army duty this fall after receiving a certificate of achievement for outstanding per­formance as assistant legal officer at the Army Ammunition Procurement and Supply Agency, Joliet He is prac­ticing in partnership with Charles Roemer '53 and '58L in South Bend. 
John C. Hirschfeld '58 and '61L is a member of the faculty for the pro­gram on "Handling Illinois Real Es­tate Transactions" of the Institute on Continuing Education of the Illi­nois Bar. Mr. Hinchfeld practices in Champaign. 
Ed\vard J. Fillenwarth Jr. '62 and '63L who practices in Indianapolis has more than one reason to remem­ber his return to the campus for the Purdue game September 24. His wife, who accompanied him to the game, presented his second son (two weeks ahead of schedule) early Saturday morning. She missed the game, but otherwise is reportedly satisfied with the way things turned out. Reports that the boy will be named "Seymour" conflict with official records, which have the name John Edward. 
Bernard Katz '64L is now associ­ated with A. J. Diderio in Elkhart in general practice. 
James M. Slater '64L recently opened his office in Santa Barbara, California. 
F. Walter Riebenack '65L'is asso­ciated with Rothberg, Gallmeyer, Fruechtenicht and Logan in Fort Wayne after more than a year of prac­tice in Cincinnati. 
EDWARD C. HILGENDORF Senior Legal Aid Attorney 
FROM LATIN AMERICA 

Clubs 
The big Boeing 707 darted up through the Chicago overcast into tlie blue brilliance of an August afternoon . . . and the trip was on. Aimed \\'ith a copy of the '65 Highlights, color shots of tlie campus and a trusty 35 mm slide projector, yours truly settled back in fan jet comfort on tlie first leg of a ten-thousand-mile junket tlirough Latin American capitals. 
The puipose of tlie trip was to "bring tlie ND word" to the gi-owing number of Alumni residing Soutli of tlie Border, and to assist in the formation of Notre Dame Clubs. First stop was Lima, Peru and a fareatli­taking dawn over the Andes, after hopscotching dirough Miami and Panama. 
Destination Lima. Lima quickly dispels Disney-like visions of quaint Latin American villages. A sprawling cit>' of two million anchored halfway down the con­tinent, it boasts one of tlie largest seaports in the world. Headquarters were the stately Hotel Bolivar where your humble ser\'ant promptly sparked tlie atmosphere by plugging a 110-volt slide projector into a 220 outlet. •-Vfter a few nimble negotiations in fractural Spanish, the charred remains were replaced, and the show went on. 
The Notre Dame Club of Peru is presided over by Enrique Lulli '45 and Eric Rey de Castro '49. Both guards, older and newer, were on hand at the Club meeting from Andres Malatesta Boza '23 to Fred Heromann '64. Andres' family is one of die nation's largest wine producers (that little old wine maker, him) and young Fred is a field man with tlie Grace Company. A Ford Foundation program of assistance to the Catholic University of Peru has brought quite a few ND personnel to Lima the past year and a half, enabling Club members to keep abreast of ND news. Notre Dame's international character becomes quickly ap­parent to the traveler abroad. Aside from ND students laboring among the undei-privileged on tiie outskirts of Lima on the CILA project, Valentin Gazzani '58 and I bumped into chemistry dept. head Dr. Ernest Eliel in a cafe one night. Eliel and I nodded our casual campus greeting until it dawned on us that we were 4,000 miles from home. 
Altitudinal Wekome in Quito. After a white-knuckle flight along the Andes, our Convair touched down in 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 

sky-high Quito. Communications had been sticky in setting up the tour, especially in areas where no formal clubs existed. It was with considerable relief tliat I passed tlirough immigration and customs and bumped into a phalarLx of eight Notre Darners led by Oswaldo Arroyo '48 and a gentle admonition: "Take it easy in this altitude, Jim (13,000 feet). A friend of mine came to visit recently, and dropped dead in forty-eight hours." 
Aside from short breath, hea\7 fatigue and coronar\' palpitations, the few days in Quito were magnificent. Brilliant sunshine and cr)-stalline skies are trademarks of this middle of the world, with red-tiled roofs and mean­dering streets adding a touch of gentle charm. Two dozen Alumni and friends gathered at the Quito Tennis Club where Jaime Pinto Davila '50 and Ernesto Iturralde '61 were elected president and secretary of the new ND Club of Ecuador. One of the most vocal Alums in Quito b Sister Maiy St. Jude Houlihan BVM MA '61, one of the marvelous legion of nuns who 
populate the campus each summer in search of graduate 
degrees. ND's intemationality was again evident as 
economics Prof. Paul Montavon and family joined the 
gathering. The Montavons are in Quito on a US AID 
program, and are apparently sur\'iving the altitude. 
Bogota Bogus. The junket from Quito to Bogota was 
downhill, but not much. At an altitude of 9,000 feet, 
Bogota is another thriving ultra-modern capital situated 
on the slopes of one of three Andean corridors. Colom­
bian hospitality was slightly strained at the outset. I 
neglected to pick up a Tourist Card admitting me into 
the country, and airport officials insbted that I reboard 
my flight bound for Caracas and Paris. Fortunately, 
Ernie Massimine '34, manager of the Texas Petroleum 
Co. in Colombia, was on hand to pull a few strings. 
Once legally admitted, I visited the gigantic Salt Cathedral hewn hundreds of feet below the surface of the earth. Gene Lesmez '55 was tour guide on this unforgettable jaunt. Over 40 Alumni reside in Bogota and environs, most of whom studied two years of engineering at the University of Los Andes and finished at ND on a transfer program. The majority of the ND • men in Bogota have graduated since '60, but their enthusiasm and interest in Notre Dame are something to behold. The Notre Dame Club of Colombia was officially launched in the magnificent penthouse apart­ment of the Massimines with over 40 in attendance. Ramon de la Torre '57 and Ernesto Guhl '65 were named president and secretar)'. 
Down Mexico Way. Air-bound for Mexico City your itinerant asst. sec. entertained fellow passengers with a culinary coup. Our stewardess had placed cups of what appeared to be tea on each of our trays. With the deftness of a seasoned traveler I added cream arid sugar—to my beef bouillon, and downed it along with my pride. It'll never sell! Three days of torrential rain had dampened Mexico City but not the spirits of 50 Alumni and friends who turned out for the Club meeting at the University Club. New elections were held, and Telmo de Landero '37 stepped down from the presidency after many years of faithful service. The new officers are Ricardo C. Leon '47, president; and Enrique Lopez Duplan '53, secretary. Over 100 Alumni reside in the Mexico City area, and the Club is the oldest out-of-States gioup. 
Dick Leon '44 ushered yours truly through one of the most beautiful cities in the world. The most moving moment was a visit to the Shrine of the Virgin of Guadalupe for Sunday Mass, concelebrated by 17 Mexican priests. Lunch at the floating gardens of Xochimiico to the strains of costumed Mariachis capped the day. ND sociology Prof. Julian Samora and family have set up housekeeping in Mexico City for the next year while he hashes out the population problem for the Ford Foundation. NT) CILA students labored in Tacambaro most of the summer. 
Next stop: Managua, Nicaragua (a wonderful place). Then Panama, Caracas and Puerto Rico. Space demands require a "part two" version in the January-Februar)' issue. Hasta la vista! 
by James D. Cooney 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER }966 DECEMBER 

ND ALUMNI SOUTH OF THE BORDER fumed out in full strength this summer to greet the University's touring assistant alumni secretary, James C. Cooney. Four of the ten Latin American cities whose ND Clubs Cooney visited included from top to bottom—Lima, Bogota, Mexico City and Quito. 
^^^^= ATLANTA ^^^^^ 
In mid-August JOE SIGXAIGO, president of the Club, resigned his post and ^vas succeeded by Vice-President THOMAS GUNNING. Joe left Atlanta to return to his homctoun of Alcmphis, Tenn. 
In August the Club sponsored the first free bmily picnic. It u-as held at the Mathis Dairy picnic grounds and featured free beer and a quasi semi-amateur touch football game. Approximately 30 members and their families took part in these festivities. The pbn is to repeat the picnic on an annual bans. September found the Notre Dame Club and the Purdue Club meeting at Golfland where they wtnesscd the ND-Purduc game on three c:oIor TV sets donated by Sears Roebuck & Co. DICK MURPHY, past Club president, \\-as the man primarily responsible for the *'full color" presentation. An attempt was being made, at the time of \%Titing this report, to have the ND-MSU game tele\^d in Atlanta so that the two clubs could meet to watch the game for the fourth consecutive year. 
A large block of tickets has been rcser\-cd for 
the ND-Gcorgia Tech basketball game scheduled 
for Feb. 4. The seats are located directly behind 
ND's bench. Because the game is scheduled for 
Saturday night, a "party" involving the team, 
coaches and managers has tentatively been planned 
for after the game. 
—JAMES A. EICHELBERGER, Secretary 
BOSTON 
The Freshman SendofT Dinner was held Sept. 7 
at the Smith House in Cambridge with 46 fresh­
men from the Greater Boston area attending. 
NEIL FOWLER w^is chairman of the affair. 
On Oct. 26, 190 Alumni and friends attended 
Notre Dame Night at Suffolk Downs, a local race 
track. The feature was the ND Club of Boston 
race. PHIL PHILBIN was chairman of this suc­
cessful affair for the second year in a row. 
JACK KARLE was chainuan of the Victory 
Dance Nov. 5 after the ND-Pittsburgh game. Our 
annual Communion breakfast was held Nov. 7. 
HARRY IhLARR is chairman of a reception to be 
held for the N D basketball team which will play 
Boston CoL here this winter. 
—JACK L.AMERE, Secretary 
BUFFALO 
Incoming students and their parents were guests 
of the Club, Sept. 7, at the Hotel Lennox for 
the annual Freshman Sendoff. The film, *'Notrc 
Dame," narrated by the late JOE BOLAND, was 
shown and was well received by all. 
—JAMES E. SEYMOUR, Secretary 
^^ ^ CALUMET DISTRICT ^^ ^ INDIANA 
At a Board of Directors meeting of the Notre Dame Club of the Calumet Region, Oct. 14, JA&IES KINN.ANE announcrd his resignation of the post of vice-president. His resignation came as the result of a promotion and transfer to Cali­fornia. Changes of ofHcers and directors were abo announced at the meeting: TIMOTHY GALVI.V JR. *59, \-ice-prcsidcnt; THOMAS GOZDECKI JR. '58, sec; JOHN M. O'DROBLVAK '57, treas.; Directors—DENNIS BURKE '60, .\N­THONY S. KUHARICH '35, MICHAEL BER­RANE '59, and JOHN McQUILLAN '65L. The following monthly schedule of events was abo set up. Dec.—Communion Breakfast; Jan.—Dinner I^nce at St. John Panel Rm., Whiting, Ind.; Feb.—^ND Glee Club performance at Bishop Noll 
H.S. in Hammond; Apr.—UND Night, Phil Smidt & Son Restaurant, Hammond; May—Annual Sports Stag. 
^^^^ CANTON, OHIO ^^^^ 
On Aug. 9 the Club held the Shillelagh Swat Golf Stag at the Elms Country Club in Massillon which was attended by 45 people. The stag began Vfith the golfers teeing off at noon. A delicious buf­fet of prime rib topped off the affair. Our guests included Tom Pagna and Jcrr>* Wampfler of the coaching staff. Coach Pagna gave us a bird's eye view of what to expect this season. He pla>3 a good game of golf, too. Other guests included our chaplain, Msgr. ROBERT FANNON and Father CASSIDY, who had a hole in one. DICK in>fGASHICK and JOH.N SAXER were tropliy winners. Thanks go to the Elms Club for their fine cooperation and to the committee of Cliairman JOHN AJLWJ, CHUCK KOEHLER, JOHN 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 

S.AXER, MIKE and LARRY MOTTER, BOB 
RICHARDS, TOM SEAMAN, ED MACHUGA 
and JIM WEBER. 
—EDWARD MACHUGA, Secretary 

(E<f. note: In our report of U\'D Night jes­tivities no mention icas made of the generous $1,000 gilt made by the Canton Club to the University. Our apologies for the omission and our thanks to them for their gift.) 
CENTRAL JERSEY 
The Park Hotel in Plainfield, N.J. was the 

scene of the annual Freshman SendofT, Sept. 13. 
Approximately 20 area mcmben of the Class of '70 
were present. Accompanied by their parents they 
were able to meet each other and also to question 
a panel of .Mumni. The entire program \v^ under 
the direction of NORRIS HARDING '57. 
The annual football trip for the benefit of the scholarship fund took place on Oct. 29 when about 500 .-Mumni and friends went to Kennedy Stadium in Philadelphia for the Na\-y game. The score at the time of this report is, of course, not known. But if H-ANRATTY, SEYMOUR ct al. perform as expected it should be a great' day for the Irish. The trip is the major source of revenue for the scholarship fund; the first stu­dent to benefit from the fund is R-^LPH PFEIF­FER of South River who is now* at X D in the Class of *70. DICK CONNELLY *55, who handled last year's successful Army trip, is again chairman of this year's trip. 
Plans are proceeding for the annual Communion 

Breakfast which will again be held at St. Peter's 
Hosp. Chapel in New Brunswick on Dec. 11. It 
is hoped that attendance at this notable event will 
be at least equal to last year's. 
—HOWARD J. GILLESPIE, VP Publicity 

^ ^ CENTRAL NEW YORK ^ ^ 
Fourteen entering freshmen from the Central New York area and their fathers were guests of the Alumni at the Club's Freshman Sendoff Dinner Sept. 13 at the Bellevue Country- Club. The Very Rev. Msgr. Thomas Costello, superintendent of schools for the Diocese of SjTacusc, was the prin­cipal speaker at the dinner which was preceded by an informal reception and cocktails. Highlights of the evening included a talk by TIM^ SHEAN '67, who explained the merits of the relatively new school honor code. Later, films of 1965 Irish football •were shown. 
A. smoker was held Oct. 11 for members of the Club and "subway alumni" at which time tickets for the Na\-y game and a trip to Philadelphia were awarded as a prize. 
—.\RTHUR W. KANERVIKO JR., Secretary 
CHICAGO 

As this issue of the ALUMNUS came off the press, the Notre Dame Club of Chicago was holding its annual Rockne A^rard Dinner at the Palmer House. A full report together with pictures of the De c 5 affair will be featured in the January-February magazine. 
Congratulations to FRED HOLZL '58, member­ship chairman, who through his hard work ex­panded our dues paying membership to over 1,000 for the year 1966. TOM HAYES '55 reported that the annual Freshman Sendoff was ver>- well at­tended. Some 300 persons were on hand Sept. 14 at McCormick Place to hear JIM GIBBONS ad­dress them on what the incoming frosh could expect on arriving at ND. A post-game cocktail part>* was held after the ND-NU game at the Edgewater Beach Hotel. Over 700 people were on hand to help celebrate the team's \*ictory. 
Club President BILL REYNOLDS '54 reminds us that the Couples Retreat will be held at the Uni\*ersity the weekend of Jan. 20-22. 
—PAT MONTROY, Secretary 
CLEVELAND 

The Annual Golf Party was held Aug. 25 at the Oak Hills Country Club in Lorain. Chairman DICK PEJEAU and Honorary Chairman JOHN CH.-\PLA reported that the large turnout spent a long day in their wading boots chasing golf balls over the 15 w^tcr holes. 
President FRED NAEGLE announced that the Freshman Sendoff Sept. 13 was a smashing success. For the first time mothers were invited. The in­formation supplied by the campus students was both interesting and well received by the audience. Let's hope that mothers will be invited again next year. 
The Annual Scholarship Fund Raffle ^^•as held at the University Club with a trip for two to the Notre Dame-Duke game and a weekend at the Morris Inn offered as top prize. Co-Chairmen KENYON SNYDER and MICHAEL O'NEILL said that the name of the winner will be made a\'ailabte in the next issue of the ALUMNUS. The Cleveland Scholarship Fund was enriched by over $1,000 again this year through the generosity of our members and friends. 
The Clcvcbnd Club members and friends wish to 

convey their deepest s>Tnpathy to the family of 
EM.METT DOWLING who passed aw^iy recenUy. 
Dates to remember: Rockne Awards Dinner— 

chairmaned by JAMES R. RODGERS to be held 
late in December; Christmas Dance—chairmaned 
by PAT CANNON and TOM CORRIGAN to be 
held on De c 12 at the Sheraton-Cleveland Hotel; 
UND Night to be held Apr. 3 at the Sheraton-
Cleveland Hotel. Rev. THEODORE HESBURGH 
CSC, President of the Uniwrsity, will be the 
speaker. 
^^ ^ COLUMBUS, OHIO ^^ ^ 
On Sept. 1 the Notre Dame Club of Columbus 

held a reception for freshman students and their 
parents at St. Thcrcsa^s Retreat House. BOB 
KOSYDAR *53 moderated the event and intro­
duced Club President WILLIAM SLIFE '61 and 
JOHN IGOE '28 who welcomed the students to 
the Club and to ND. After the movie, "Notre 
Dame," parents quizzed a panel of upperclassmen 
—DAVE MONFORT, MIKE ANTHON'Y and 
BOB O'SHAUGHNESSY — regarding spending 
money, clothes, laundry and other aspects of 
campus life. 
On Sept. 10 the Club held its annual picnic at Living Waters Grounds nestled in the \vt>oded area of Columbus' far Nortliside. Coordinated by officers WILLIAif SLIFE '61 and DAN IGOE '64, sporting c%-cnts were the feature of the day. Eighty ND men, students and friends were in at­tendance as the Alumni defeated the students in the "Touch Bowl." A late score enabled the Alumni to continue their unbeaten string in the contest. RICHARD KASBERG '48 was recognized as star of the «ctors. After a "steak dinner," cards and \iewing of Green Bay-Baltimore game rounded out the program. HARRY NESTER '20 won top door prize and chose to \ic\v the ND-Army game with his uinnings. 
^ ^ CONNECTICUT VALLEY ^ ^ 
The Club ^\-as host to 14 freshmen from the area and their fathers at the Club's annual Fresh­man Sendoff Dinner in Hartford on Sept. 13. Featured speaker JIM MELLO, star fullback of the LEAHY era, gave an inspirational talk on his recreational work with retarded children at the ^fansfield (Conn.) State Training School. A panel of four students from the University gave the in­coming students the benefit of their experience at a question-and-answcr session. Under the direc­tion of Club President BOB McGOLDRICK the Club is making plans for a biggcr-than-cvcr turnout at its annual Communion Supper in December. 
—DON FOSKETT, Secretary 
DALU5 

On July 23, forty couples and their children gathered for an afternoon of visiting and picnicking. The event featured sack races, egg-throuing con­tests and prizes. Many new members were present. 
On Aug. 14 the Club officers gathered at the home of President JOHN ROGERS for a lasagna dinner. With the expert advice of the wives the officers planned for the Freshman Sendoff, the bus trip to Norman for the game with the Sooners, and a scries of lectures on vital contemporary topics by figures of national prominence. 
—WILLIAM L. COOKE, Secretary 
= DEARBORN 

During the lull in general meeting activity this past summer the Club held its 1966 Annua] Sum­mer Dance at the home of Mr. and Mrs. JERRY WAYNO. Colorful decorations coupled with a soft summer breeze lent atmosphere to a pleasant e\'cning enjoyed by 17 couples including CHUCK AHERN, JIM HEIMBUCH, DON HICKS, DO.M MULIAXEY, RAY DE FAUW and JERRY SARB. Congratulations go to BILL DE CRICK and JERRY G.^S ulio helped organize tliis great night of fun. 
September and October general meetings were hosted by DICK KING and BILL DOSMANN. As part of the September meeting format, a speaker from the Catholic Family Movement dis­cussed projects that active Catholics can under­take to fulfill obligations in their schools and commimity. 
—BOB MISSEL, Secretary-Treasurer 
DECATUR, ILL. 
The Notre Dame Club of Decatur is lolliDg. 

Since last report President JOE DONOVAN or­
ganized a retreat, a picnic and a chartered bus 
trip to the ND-Purdue game vnth tremendous 
success. 
The annual dinner-business meeting ivas held 

Oct. 6 and elections were a landslide for: NICH­
OLAS NEIERS, pits.; JOHN F. DUNN, VP; 
PATRICK NOLAN, treas.; STEPHEN GRA­
LIKER, sec The Club also named BERNARD 
METER, JOSEPH DONAVAN, WILLIAil 
DOWNING and JAMES UHL as directors. Rev. 
KEVIN SULLIVAN wiU serve as chaplain. In 
behalf of the Club, BERNARD MARTY presented 
the Man of the Year Award to STEPHEN 
GRALIKER. 
—STEPHEN GRALIKER, Secretaiy 

^^^ ^ DES MOINES ­
The Notre Dame Club of Des Moines held its Annual Fall Smoker on Sept. 7 at the home of JOE BISIGNANO. The 1965 Football Highlights film %\-as shown and refreshments were served. Guests included Dowltng High (Des Moines-Catholic) football coach Jim Williams, as well as the following Alumni, students and friends of ND : Tony Critelli, Joe Bisignano, Bob Fadesky, Paul Zika, Ste^e Hurd, Jerry Higgins, Robert Drey, Joe Casey, Ed Fasner, Marc Wonderlin, John Gallagher, Robert Doyle, John Bisignano, Joe Joyce, Floyd Ziegler, Jim Boesen, John Leonardo, Mike McCauIey, Joe Zuendel and Nicfc Lamberto. 
ECUADOR 
In late August the Club had the pleasure of 

having widi us JAMES COONEY *59 who was in 
Ecuador for a three-day meeting with the Notre 
pamc Alumni In Quito. Activides included meet­
ing Jim at the airport, a tour of the city and 
a luncheon in the country. A dinner was held at 
the Quito Tennis and Golf Club where Jim gave 
a talk on ND and showed slides and the 1965 
Football Highlights. During the dinner the N D 
Club of Quito elected JAIME PINTO as its 
president. 
—ERNESTO rrURRALDE S., Secretarr 

^^^ ^ ELKHART, IND. ^^^ ^ 
The first fall meeting ol the Elkhart Club was 

held Friday noon, Sept. 23, at the Elks Club. 
An excellent turnout of nearly 50 per cent of the 
Alumni in the area u-as on hand to hear JOE 
DOYLE, the sports editor of the South Bend 
Tribune. Mr. Doyle was introduced by his name­
sake and friendly rival, VINCE DOYLE. Joe pro­
dded an excellent analysis of the capabilities and 
present condition of each of the team members 
—particubrly MIKE FRANGER of Elkhart—and 
then responded to a variety of questions concern­
ing the team. 
—JOHN GILDEA, Secretary 
ERIE = 
.As the deadline for this column approached, 

the Notre Dame Club of Erie was finalizing pbns 
for the annual Communion Breakfast which will 
be held in December. 
The RICH \fcCORMICKs '53 and the FRANTt 

RILEYs *59 hosted a Halloween costume party on 
Oct. 22. The TIM McCORMICKs '59 wtm first 
prize for their costiunes as matching his and hers 
Erin Brew Beer cans. 
—LEO BRUGGER JR., Secretary 
FAIRFIgLD COUNTY 
CONNEaiCUT 

The Fairfield County Club held a Freshman Sendoff for new students and their parents at the ^fermaid Tavern in Stratford Sept. IL We had 14 students in attendance at the buffet supper and quite a few parents. Jl&f GIBBONS was the guest speaker and did his usual fine job. 
A bus trip to Riiladelphia for the NI>*Navy game, Oct. 29, was held in conjunction with the New York City Club. The price included round-trip bus fare, game ticket, and £ree coffee and bar setups on the bus. 
—ROY A. JANN, Secretary 

^^^ ^ RJNT, MICH. 
Through the cooperation of BOB CAHIIX, the Notre Dame Club of Flint was able to secui« cxcutsion tickets for the ND'Michigan State game played in East Lansing, Nov. 19. The football excutsion committee cixhainnen were PAUL C. HUGHES and WILLIAM F. MINAKOO assisted by ALFRED MANSOUR. 
—WILLUM F. MINARDO, Sec-Treas. 

ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 
FT. LAUDERDALE 
Three lucky •j-oung men and llicir parents, about 

to become part of one of the greatest traditions 
in America, were honored guests at the Ft. 
Lauderdale Notre Dame Alumni Club Freshman 
ScndofT. Representing the Class of *70 were 
GARV GEREFFI, PAUL OTT and DENNY 
WILLIAMS. Alumni and their u-ivcs at the Sea 
Shore Resort for a poolside chicken and ribs bar­
becue were: TOMA MAUS '57, ED TROM­
BETTA '60, FRANK McGINN '52. JOHN Mc-
GINN '54, BOB BLACKIE '56, GEORGE PAT­
TERSON *58L, BILL THEIS '60, BOB Mc-
DONOUGH '52, \VILLARD MOSS, CHARLIE 
RUDD '54 and BOB GORE '31. 
President BOB BLACKIE has announced that 

the 1967 ND Alumni Convention wU be held 
Apr. 28, 29 and 30 on Florida's West Coast at 
Plantation Golf and Country' Club, Cr^'stal River, 
Fla. We have a tremendous package deal arranged 
for next >'ear. Included for only $100 for two 
people is a three-day two-night nostalgic weekend 
for ND men and their %oves with dinner on Fri­
day night, breakfast, a cocktail party and banquet 
en Saturday, followed by a delicious Sunday 
brunch. For all you sports there also is a\-ailable 
gol6ng—Ken Vcnturi is cJub pro—fishing (fresh 
and salt water), skindiving, hunting and tennis. 
What more coutd j-ou ask for? 
We're looking forward to a record-breaking at­

tendance. Any Club president or indi\*idual seeking 
more information or desiring to make reser\'ations 
please write: BOB BLACKIE, prcs. ND Club of 
Fort Laudcrtlale, 1239 N.E. Flagler Dr., Ft. 
Lauderdale, Fla. 33304. 
—JIM MOTSETT, Secretary 
HOUSTON 
Tlic ND Club of Houston recently completed 

election of officers for the next two years. The 
results: CHRISTIE S. FLAN.^G.'\N '60, pres.; 
MOORE McDOXOUGH '57, VP; HARRY 
ODEM '57, sec; PAT BOLAND '54, treas. 
We secured 100 ticiets for the NTJ-Okhhoma 

game and arranged a Club trip to the game with 
an ovcrivhelming response. The Club also held 
a TV game party for the ND-Purdue game. 
—CHRISTIE FL.VCAG.-\N, President 

^^^ ^ INDIANAPOLIS ^^^ ^ 
Tlie Scholarship Ball »-as held Oct. 29 at the Indianapolis Athletic Club uith cocktails at 6:30 and a buffet from 7:30 to 8:30. JOHN R. WELCH chaimancd the event while WILLLAM MOONEY headed the raffle whicli was designed this year to replace \-anous fund-raising drives. 
^^^^ JERSEY SHORE ^^^^ 
A newly added event on the Jersey Shore Club's schedule was the mixer-cocktail party held Oct. 15 at the Cri-stal Brook Inn in Eatontown. Co-chair­men of the event were DICK CORD.'\SCO '50 and DICK TIERNEY '54. 
Sdieduled for Dec II is the annual Communion Breakfast. —CHARLES KELLER, Secretary 
^^ = KALAMAZOO, MICH. ^^ ^ 
The Kalamazoo Club held its 16th Annual Golf Outing at the Gull Lake Country Club. Special guests were Coach Parseghian and his football staff and other Notre Dame coaches. After a day of golfing, Ara gave a talk on the prospects of the 1966 season before the more than 300 who had gathered for the evening dinner. 
Officers for the coming vear arc: Pres., GEORGE LAURE '38, VP, THONLAS McKIN-LEY '58, Sec, GIL GAUDIE *31, and Treas., MICHAEL SULLIVAN '63. 
^^ ^ KANSAS CITY, MO. ^^ ^ AND KANSAS 
Area Alumni and guests, 150 strong, journeyed to the Notre Dame-Army game Oct. 8. TOM McKEON '54, ably assisted by CHUCK O'NEILL *58, was cliairman of the trip which ^^^is a roaring success and thoroughly enjoyed by all. Quite a number of Alumni and friends also attended the Oklahoma game Oct, 22, which aroused consid­erable interest in this area. 
TIic annual Freshman Sendoff Dinner was held Sept. 6 and 19 new students were given appro­priate parting words of w^isdom. EARL HOGAN '58 vf.ts chairman of tlie festivities and did an excellent job as projectionist of the 1965 "Football Highlights" film. He was assisted by president and "x-iceKJiairman of all functions" Chuck O'NeiU '58. 
We're alu*a>-s glad to w-elcome new residents and among those .Alumni who have moved into the area recently are: GENE DUFFY '59, certainly one of the finest "small men*' in ND's basketball annab, from Omaha: and JOHN KLUDING '65 from Blue Island, HI. The Club will miss TOM O.AKES '31 who has moved to San Francisco. 
^^^^ LOS ANGELES ^^^^ 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles gathered 

at St. Thcresc's Parish lo watch the ND-Purdue 
game on nine color TV sets that chairman BRIAN 
O'NEILL secured for the event. 
Thirty-two families and over 100 children showed 

up for the family picnic on Sept. 10 and had a 
very enjoj-ablc day. Tlianks to chairman JIM 
RYAN for a veoman's job in patching it all to­
gether, to JACK MORRIS and ALEX SHELLOG 
for their generous contributions and to someone 
at the CLAY SMITH house for the time spent in 
arranging the children's games. 
The ND Glee Club wtis in town Sept. 27-30 to 

do a tape for the Andy Willbms Show. Unfor­
tunately their schedule did not permit our ar­
ranging a performance for the Club. 
—THOMAS POWERS, President 
MAINE' 
Tlic annual Maine Notre Dame Club family 

picnic \^-as held at Camp Scbaik, Scbago Lake, 
Me., Aug. 28, with 50 in attendance including 
Alumni, wives and children. We were blessed 
with a t>'pical Maine sunny day at the beautiful 
camp operated by the Holy Cross Fathers. Games 
for the children, a softball contest, suimming and 
a cook-out added to the day's festivities. Alumni 
present were JACK WILKINSON '40, PAUL 
SCULLY '41. JESS DcLOIS '42. PAUL O'MAL­
LEY '42, FRANK McGEOUGH *47, TON^Y 
SILVA '56, DOM ZURLO '58, JOHN BELI­
VEAU '59 and BILL BARTLETT '62. 
At our annual business meeting the following 

were re-elected officers for the ensuing year: 
TON'Y SILVA '56, pres.; JESS DcLOIS '42, VP; 
RAY GEIGER '32. sec; and JOHN BELIVEAU 
'59, treas. It was also announced that the ND 
Concert Band will appear in Leu-iston on Apr. 1 
during its Eastern tour. It is through the Band 
Concert that w*e raise funds to sustain our Schol­
arship Loan Fund to help deserving Maine boj-s 
attend the University. We were also pleased to 
greet two new members to our small but active 
club, namely. DOM ZURLO '58 and BILL 
BARTLETT '62, both of whom arc employed at 
the new RCA Semiconductor plant in Lewiston. 
Our thanks to Rev. FRANK TOSTE CSC, 

for granting tlie Club the use of the camp's fa­
cilities again this year. 
—RAY GEIGER, Secretary 

^^ ^ GREATER MIAMI ^^^ ^ 
On Aug. 20 the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Greater Aliami held its annual picnic at Crandon Park on Key Btscajne, Fla. The picnic was a huge success and was attended by 121 Club members and their families. The chairman of this function was CHARLES NACKLEY and he made certain there was plenty of chicken, spare ribs and cold refreshments on hand to serve those who came. The day u-as highlighted by our an­nual baseball game in which the spirited "young alumni" were victorious over the "old timers" by the score of 6 to 5. 
On Sept. 7 the Club held its annual Father and Son Dinner at the Hotel Urmcy honoring the newly accepted ND freshmen from the Mbmi area. We were proud to have in attendance six freshmen and their fathers: J.AMES M. BRADY, ROBERT G. HARRISON. ROBERT F. O'M.AL­LEY. J.AMES P. SIMONS, MICHAEL E. SWEET and JOHN L. ZAVERTNIK. CHARLES MAHER JR, RICK DUNN, MIKE HARRISON and RICK SIMONS, all uppcrclassmcn at NT) were also on hand. In addition many of our faithful Alumni, CHARLES M.AHER, ROBERT PROBST, ROBERT O'MALLEY SR. I. I. PROBST, FARRIS COWART, D.AVE RUSSELL. JIM SMITH. RAY POPP, JACK CAN.ANE. GENE KUBICKI, JIM SWEENY, RICHARD SADOWSKI, LARRY BUCKLEY, MARTIN KENNELLY and JIM DAUGHERTY were there to hear our featured speaker, former Dade County, Fla.. sheriff, GEORGE LEPPIG '28. 
During the fall our Club arranged several actiW­ties for the members. In September, wc held our TV party as guests of fellow alumnus D.AN ROWLANDS and watched the Fighting Irish open their 1966 season against Purdue. In October, we 
THE POWER OF POSITIVE THINKING 
is demonstrated on the eve of the ND-Purdue game by Michigan City Club President Robert E. Miller who presented a paper crow for the Pur­due alumni victory dinner. Accepting the portentious entree is the Purdue club president, John Garrettson. 
planned a moonlight cruise on beautiful Bi5ca>'nc 
Bay and its surrounding waters. 
Even though it may seem that the 1967 football season is far off our Club has already started to make plans to host many of our Alumni friends next year. We have rcser\'ed 300 rooms at the Deauville Hotel for the weekend of Nov. 23-26, 1967. For those Alumni who are looking ahead this is the weekend that ND phys the U. of Miami in Miami on Friday, Nov. 24. Our Club has obtained special rates for this period and they will be $15 per room, per day on the European plan or $7.50 per person, double occupancj". I may add there will be ax-ailable a modified American Flan for those who desire it. 
All Clubs or Alumni who are interested in this weekend in Miami may contact GEORGE F­HERO. 40 N.E. 75th St., Miami, Fla. 33138. In 1965, our Club was host to over 2,000 Alumn! and friends and we arc planning a bigger weekend for the 1967 game. 
—GEORGE F. HERO, President 

^^ ^ MICHIGAN CITY, IND. ^^ ^ 
Two recent activities of the Club were ver>' successful Ventures. On the eve of the Purdue-Notre Dame game a kickoff program at St. Joseph Hall, featuring DON MILLER of Four Horsemen fame, was well attended by area Alumni and friends of both schools. The program included an address by Club President ROBERT E. MILLER who presented a paper "crow" to the Purdue Club President John Garreltson for the menu of the previously announced ''Victory Din­ner" the Purdue Club had scheduled following the game. Some of the members helping with the arrangements for the evening were MIKE CAU­LEY, EMMETT MILLER. LEON DARGIS. DOMINIC MOFFO, STEVE J.ANUS. DO.N WENTLANT), Dr. C. ^V. KOLANCZYK and BOB XnLLER. City Judge CO.\R.AD KO.MI­NI.AREK served as the master of ceremonies. 
It was pleasing to see once again so many familiar faces in attendance, such as BOB ^fc-BRIDE, former assistant coach during the Lcahv era; WILLIAM "ZIP" ZEHNPFENNIG, former local resident and nou' a Cleveland neighbor of the featured speaker; NORB SCHAAF, BOB SCHIEL; JOE QUARTUCH; FRANNIE FED­DER; BOB DOWD, again employed in Michigan City after a stay in New Albany; WILLIAM KENEFICK; and JOHN KELLEY just to men­tion a few noticed during the evening. The Purdue Club has promised to sponsor a similar event next year. 
The annual **away-game" bus trip was to North­western the following Saturday with DON WENT­
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER }966 DECEMBER 

LAN'D as cliairman. Although Dr. FRANCIS KUBIFC returned from his vacation in time to maintain his perfect attendance for the away trips, Dr. JOSEPH BERGAN u-as not so for­tunate and was unable to attend because of his­\'acation. Another perfect attendance record was shattered when Dr. ROBERT FROST was marked absent for the first time since any member could recall and left the group without an ofHcial whistler. 
Future cx'cnts will be the Communion Sunday in 

December with BILL PRIEBE as chairman, and 
hopefully the annual Grasshopper Frolic either in 
late January or during February. 
—DON WE-VFLAND. Secretary 

^^^^^ MILWAUKEE ^^^^^ 
sixty members and guests were present at the annual Golf Outing wliicli u'as held at the Chcncqua Country- CI b near Hartland, Wis., July 26. D.WE MURi'HY '57 arranged tor every­thing except the weather. The majority of the golfers made it to the tOth hole before the rains came and then it was a mad rush back to the clubhouse. HARRY TROY '30 donated prizes to the few half.drowncd members who lasted 18 holes. Among them was HUGH BRAU.V '53. After dinner Coach JOHN RAY showed films of the Old-Timers Game and gave a prcvietv of com­ing attractions. DAVE SH.\XAHAX '58 of the N'D Foundation was a featured speaker. Some of the members present were: JlSl BARRY '55: JOH.V CL.-\UDER '34; DICK EHR '54: JIM F.VLLO.N '58; ROGER LAUER '39; ROBERT LeMENSE '43; JOE MESEC '54; R. W. DWYER '43; TOM MULCAHY '37; RICK NIMMER­MAN- '58; JOHX SCHLOEGEL '34; PHIL VO­GEL '58: and GENE S.MITII '33. 
Approximately 30 members were present Sept. 9 at the preseason Football Smoker at the Pabst Brewing Co. to hear ED "MOOSE" KR.\USE narrate the '63 **Football Highlights." 
—NED BALDUS, Sccrelar>­

^^^^ NEW MEXICO ^^^^ 
A short business meeting was held at the atmual 
picnic. The meeting's elections produced the fol­
lowing results: PAUL FARMER, pres.: GENE 
EMERSON, VP; GERRY LOMBARDI, trcas.; 
and LARRY O'COXNELL, sec. BILL BENE­
DICK graciously offered to keep the Club mailing 
list up-to-date. Bill's address is: 4601 Haines N.E., 
Albuquerque. Please contact him if you have not 
been receiving mailings from the Cl:ib or if your 
mail is incorrectly addressed. Recent additions to 
the Club's ranks include: JOHX A. GARCIA '64, 
DON WALSH '39 and the esteemed JOH.N Mac-
CAULEY. 
—LARRY O'COXXELL, Secretary 
NEW ORLEANS ^ 
On Sept. 8 the Xotrc Dame Club of New 
Orleans sponsored its annual Freshman Sendoff 
cocktail party at which area freshmen and their 
parents were the honored guests. The affair was 
held at the nil-new* Governor House Motor Hotel 
and was well attended. As in the past the Alumni 

were most anxious to answer any last-minute 
questions that the new freshmen might have before 

heading north to South Bend. Among those in 
attendance were MIKE FARRAR and JIM WY­
SOCKI both recent graduates of the ND Law 
School who arc presently practicing law here in 
New Orleans; HARRY CLARK of the Class of 
'63; LANCE BABST '64. 

In September the Club played host to a smoker and luncheon for the national telecast of the ND-Purdue game. The affair was held at a center in uptown New Orleans and like the cocktail party three weeks prior was well attended by members and their wives. Among those who mar­veled at the heroics of young JIM SEYMOUR and TERRY HANR.\TTY were BOB JOHNSTON '63 and his wife Christy, M. O. NHLLER '66 and WALTER BABST *66. 
—MICHAEL READ 
NEW YORK CITY 

The New York Club launched its fall season ^vith the Frosh Smoker at the Waldorf-Astoria. Events Chairman JOHX McNA^L•\R.•\ introduced the freshmen to ND life with the able assistance of JIM GIBBONS. Over 100 freshmen and their fathers attended the evening's festivities. Also picscnt were students from the Met Club and many Alumni to assist in whatever questions the fathers and sons might have. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 
Following the Freshman SendofT, the annual KickofT Meeting was attended by more tlian 250 football lans. MOOSE KR/\USE was the guest of honor along with RIP MILLER and Col. Capka nf Annapolis and West Point, respectively. Ed Dootey of the New York Athletic Commission was the master of ceremonies. "SLEEPY" JIM CROWLEY woke up in time to bring the house down with his witty stories and his "modest" memories of the '20s. PETE BISCONTI and PAT KENEALLY were co-chairmen. Also pres­ent ^^-as Pete Dawkins, former Army player, now-back from Vietnam and an instructor at West Point. 
BILL MULVEY was in charge of arrangements for the Na%Y game trip to Philadelphia which saw over 500 Io\-al Irish fans making the Journey. JIM GRIFFIN was chairman lor the annual Com­munion Breakfast at the Waldorf-Astoria. Dec. 8. 
Club elections find GORDON FORESTER, pres.; JIM SPELLMAN. treas.; and PAT KEN­EALLY. st-c. 
—P.-\TRICK KENE.-\LLY, Secretary­
= OHIO VALLEY = 

The Ohio Valley Club had a corn roast at Wheeling Park on Sept. 7 with Notre Dame students as guests. The main feature of the cx'cning was a horseshoe pitching contest, followed by a picnic of corn-on-thc-cob. hot dogs, etc. Plans for future activities, including the Com­munion Breakfast, were discussed around the log fire. Those attending included: FRANK WAL­L.-\CE '23; Mr. and Mre. BILL MFTSCH '33 and sons BILL '69 and BOB '70; RUSS RICKUS '34; LOUIS YAEGER '35 and son LOUIS '69; BILL GOMPERS '48 from Detroit and his brother Joseph: Mr. and Mrs. R.\Y KEYS M9; Mr. and Mrs. JAMES DAILER '50: BOB SI.XCAVICH '50; Mr. and Mrs. JAMES HARAXZO '52; HARRY BUCH '52; BILL BUCH '59; BILL McGRAW '65 and fiancee Pat Schaefer; Bill Flynn and daughter Pat; Mr. and Mrs. Harry Hamm; Mr. and Mrs. Paul Otte. 
The Club also sponsored a TV smoker at the Carroll Club In Wheeling on Sept. 24 to watch the ND-Purdue game. JIM D.MLER '50 was chairman of the affair. About 40 ND fans at­tended and among them were TOM HOWLEY 'II; BARRETT BELTZ '33; BILL MITSCH '33; RUSS RICKUS '34; BOB SINCWICH '50; BILL HOGAN '51; JIM HARAXZO '52; and DON JUVAN '64. 
—BILL MITSCH, Sec-Treas. 
OREGON : 

On Sept. 7, Dr. and Mrs. ED SCOTT *46 were hosts to the returning students and their parents at a Back-to-School gathering In their home. Present were: Mr. and Mrs. RAY MARTIN '50; Mr. and Mrs. J. .MICHAEL WHITE '61; .Mr. and Mrs. Lumen Miller and son JIM '69; Mr. and Mrs. Allen Britt and son JIM *70; Afr. Rawlin­son; Mr. and Mrs. Joe Reizicka and son JIM '70; 
TOM BRANDT '69; Rev. JOHN VANWOLV­
LEAR '45. Film highlights of last season were 
also shown. 
The opening game with Purdue was viewed by a 

rousing contingent of loyal Oregon Almani and 
friends at the Blitz Welnhard Brewery. Plenty of 
beer and hot dogs was consumed as we cheered 
the team. A vote was taken to make a visit to 
the Blitz Hospitality Room a yearly e\'cnt. 
The key phrase in the '66-'67 program of the 

Club is ''enthusiasm is contagious." The response 
to the membership drive and Club events has 
been outstanding. 
JERRY BELI.\N has been transferred to Detroit 

and MIKE WHITE will assume the secretary's re­
sponsibilities. Jerry was instrumental in the Club's 
revitalization program and we are sure he will be 
an asset to the Detroit Club. 
—MICHAEL WHITE, Scc-Trcas. 
PAKISTAN 
Peace Corpsman EDWARD LOVE of Buffalo, a 

student at Notre Dame from '58 to '60, dropped 
in to see us Oct. 14 on his way to Bangkok for a 
holiday. He is now stationed in West Pakistan. Ed 
was accompanied by another Peace Corpsman, Bill 
Kreutzjanas of Fort Wright, Ky., who is a gradu­
ate of St. Joseph's in Rensselaer (Ind.). Bill and 
Ed left behind in W. t^kistan another ND Peace 
Corpsman, GEORGE DIEHL, of Jacksonville, Fla. 
He is a graduate of '65 and received his degree in 
mechanical engineering. George was a member of 
the group of ND students and faculty who went 
to Mexico on a rural uplift program in the sum* 
mer of '64. 
Ed Love's present job is that of district engi> 

ncer, rural works program, in the tovMi and Dis-' 
trict of Bahawalnagar, W. Pakistan. His dudes 
are the design and supervbion of construction of 
small rural structures such as schools, dispensaries, 
water tanks, etc. Bill Kreutzjanas holds the same 
position in Multan, W. Piilustan. 
George DIehl, in Vehari, Dt. Multan, W. 

Pakistan, works with the colony cooperative farm­
ing union. He has supervised the construction of 
a farm tractor repair facility practically from the 
beginning of the project. The facility is now 
almost completed and George will spend the re­
mainder of his Peace Corps time overseeing its 
operation. 
When these three Corpsmen finish their tour 

of scr\'icc next June they have plans already well 
developed to see parts of the world they have 
- missed thus far via three motorcycles starting from Sweden and heading eastward through Europe, the Middle East and .Asia. 
—Rev. F. J. BURTON CSC 
PENSACOLA, FLA. 

The X'otre Dame Club of Pensacola has some changes in officers. LEON V. DULION '54 has been elected president of the Club to succeed THONUS E. KANE '57 who will be taking graduate work at Florida State U. for the next three years. And LARRY McCORMACK '49 
GUESTS OF HONOR AT THE NEW YORK Club's Kickoff Meeting held prior to the opening of the football season were "friendly rivals" Col. Capka, athletic director from West Point, Ed "Moose" Krause from the University, and Rip Miller, w/ho holds the similar post at Annapolis. 
has been elected to the newly cstablbhcd office 
of executive secretary. 
The Club enjoyed many gratifjing events this 
year: annual meeting with ihc showing of *'High­
lights of Notre Dame Football/* UXD Night with 
Coach JOHN DEE in attendance and the yearly 
ND Football Party when 100 gathered on Sept. 24 
for spirits and good food to cheer the Irish on-
Tlic Executive Board, at its last meeting, dc­
tennined that a good many of the members are 
anxious to attend the ND-Gcorgia Tech game 
in 1967. It is also going to work on \-arioLis 
programs to better publicize ND in the area and 
perhaps encourage more qualified Pcnsacola boys 
to attend the University. 
—IRA P. B.ASCLE 
PEORIA, ILL. The Notre Dame Club of Peoria held its annual Back-to-School Dinner on Sept. 13 at Vonachen's Junction. CHUCK PERRIN '51 did a splendid job serving as general chairman for the event. Guest speaker yvas ZIGGY CZAROBSKI M7, All-American tackle, who is now working with the Illinois Youth Commission. Recipient of the Lt. James A. Cassidy Award for academic achievement during 1965-66 vras JURK A. VOGLE '69 %rith a 
3.6 average. Full tuition scholarships were given by the Club to the two local Catholic high schools —Bergan and Spalding Institute. 
Plans arc being made by Co-Chairmcn BILL CL.«K '47 and MIKE RITSCHEL '62 for a concert by the ND Glee Club on Dec. 8 The Glee Club will put on both a matinee and evening performance at Bergan High School in Peoria. A sellout house is expected for both performances. The nationally famous Glee Club appeared on the Andv Williams' Show, Nov. 6. MIKE DE.V­TI.\b '52. GENE SLEVIN '44, JOHN GILBERT '42, MAURIE CICCIARELLI '55, JIM McCOMB '54, PAUL COASH '56, LOU ZUMBAHLEN '49, DE.VIS BERRY '56, DEN.VY POU'ERS '56 and JOE DcMICHAEL *56 will all assist in making this \-isit of the Notre Dame Glee Club to Peoria a happy and successful one. 
Also, on Dec. U the KD Club of Peoria will hold its annual Communion Breakfast Sunday. Chairman of the event is BOB MANNING '60. A large turnout is expected again this year. 
—MICHAEL C. RITSCHEL, Secretary 
PHILADELPHIA ^^^ ^ 
The October meeting of the Club was held Oct. 25 at the Philos and was the occasion of the drawing for the annual raffle chairmaned by JACK HENRY. JIM VOIT planned an interest­ing c\'ening including some ND personalities who arrived early for the Notre Dame-Na\-y game. 

TTic Ben Franklin Hotel was once again the Club's headquarters for the -ncekcnd of Oct. 2S-30. JOHN MOORHEAD arranged a party on Friday night which featured continuous music by a 10­piece dance band and a rock and roll band. Bus service was a\"ailable between the hotel and the stadium before and after the game. After the game two bands proridcd background for the par-tics held in two rooms of the Ben Franklin. 
Tlic University Glee Club appeared in concert on Nov. 23 at the Mount St. Joseph's Academy Auditorium. PAT KITTREDGE and JOHN VOIT co-cliairmaned the event. 

Future events are the Club's Communion Break­fast to be held Dec. 11. The annual meeting and elections are scheduled for Jan. 10, No ilatc has yet been set for the Rocknc A^^tirds Dinner. 
^^ ^ PHOENIX, ARIZ, ^^^ s 
The Notre Dame Club of Phoenix held its annual Freshman ScndofF in September for ND Scholarship Award winner, MIKE SU.A,REZ, and the 10 students from Phoenix and Scottsdale who returned to ND to complete another year of studies. Suarer, the son of Mrs, Anxalio Suarez, is a graduate of Brophy Prep Jesuit School and was awarded the four-year scholarship to the Uni­versity by the Club last May. 
—JO.V W. SMITH, Secretary 
PinSBURGH ^^^ ^ 

The Club's Golf Outing was held Aug. 31 at the Butler Country Club. A large number took part in the golfing with DICK KLUCK recciWng the trophy for low gross score. Fifty Club mem­bers and guests attended the dinner and heard Coach JOHN DEE give a brief preview of the ath­letic season at the University. 
The Freshman Sendofl was Aug. 29 at StoufTer's in Oakland. AIIKE McMAHON '61 was chairman for the event which hosted 48 incoming freshmen and their fathers from tlic Greater Pittsburgh area. BER.\IE POWERS '49 spoke on behalf of the Universit>- and LOU CANCELMI addressed the group from the student's point of \icw. Four ofHcers of the campus Pitt Club were also present to answer questions and offer suggestions. 
—LEO O'DO.VNELL JR., Sccrctaty 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. s 
A fine group of prospective Alumni was given a 
shot of the old spirit at our Freshman Sciidolf 
on Sept. 7. It was headed by JACK N^YE DUF­
FEY with BILL OTOOLE, ROY H.\NNA and 
JOHN CASEY. Our thanks to the ladies' group 
and President TERRY HAN.VA for their assistance. 
The Club's second scliolarship was awarded to 
FRANK O'CONNOR by the selection committee 
under the chairmanship of ARNIE MORRISON. 
The continued development of our scholarship 
program is being assured by the efforts of PHIL 
YAWAIAN who organized the annual Notre Dame 
Football Weekend raffle- Transportation, accom­
modations, and two tickets to the Navy game were 
awarded the lucky winner. 
Dancing at Christmas time vrill be made possible 
on Dec. 30 at Oak Hill Country Club through 
the efforts of the Notre Dame Women's Organiza­
tion with the WILLIAM OTOOLEs as honorary 
co-chairmen. 
—DAVE XHLLER, Secretary 
= ROME = 
Tlic Notre Dame Hospitalitj' Center holds open 
house e\*cry day from noon till nine. On arrival 
in Rome ring us at 730.002. Beat a path to Largo 
Brancaccio 82 (near Central Station—St. Mary 
Major). Important info: Papal audiences c\*ery 
Wednesday forenoon. Public Papal blessing e\'cry 
Sunday noon. Call us on arrival for procedure. 
Dhco-jcry: LUIGI RUGGERI MA '65, a real 
Roman who has been back a year ^vithout our 
knowing. Loss: SAM HAFFEY '63 and JOHN 
MORFORD '63, both ND architects who have 
gone back to the US for bigger buildings. 
Guest list: FRANK O'CO.VNOR '61 and his wife; Rev. JOHN SHEEHAN '49; ROBERT BOYLE '41; LAWRE.VCE COTT 'G+ and his wife (SMC '64); PAUL HIGGENS '68; JOE BU­COLO '65; CHARLES -McCARTHY '62; Sr. JANE DE CHANTEL GODFREY '60; BILL BERN'BROCK '35 and his family; parents of LOUIS MATT '53; DICK BIS.ANZ '67; Rev. WILLIAM McHUGH MA '62; JIM HANIG.W '67; JIM BARCIO '67; TO.M NEUBERGER '67; PAUL CULHANE '67; GREGORY .MACK '67; MIKE CONERTV '63; JIM '62 and MIKE SMITH '66; BRUCE PALKA '65; JOHN AN­TON '65; Prof. RALPH THORSO.V '49 with his wife and family; family of Rev. BUTOX SMITH CSC; fiancee of MICHAEL SEIBERT '67; cousin of FR,ANK '63 and TERRY McDONALD '66; cousin of BOB KURAS '65. 

SflCHAEL STERLI.N'G '68; Prof. BERNARD WALDMAN and family; JOHN DE.MPSY '67; TOM GAGNON '67; J. FRANK OEHLHOFFEN '27 and his wife (SMC '30); AL "JOSH" D'AMORA '33; GEORGE GRU.MLEY '67; daughter of J. SHERER '43; Sr. M. Gavin, daughter of PAUL H,AGAN '20 and niece of GERALD '23 and sister of Rev. B.^^RRY HAGAN CSC; Dr. THEODORE SCHWARTZ '50; CLAR­E.N'CE DONOVAN '31 and his wife; T. PIERRE CHAMPION '22 and his wife reporting for DAVE '43, PETER JR. '60, BILL '61; CHRISTOPHER MURPHY III '68; Prof. LOUIS NICHOLSON; BILL DOXOHUE '66 and his wife (SMC '66); Dr. GEORGE FOSS '35 and wife; DENIS NO­LAN '60; ROGER B.ARAN '67; the in-laws of PETER DIERKS '63; daughter of GEORGE WENDT '44 who is also sister of GEORGE JR. '70; GEORGE FOX '32 and his wife; ROBERT TAYLOR '63; secretary of BOB WELSH JR. '58; ROBERT HOFFMAN '63; JOHN RAMMEL '64; 
F. MICHAEL O'NEILL *6I wiio is the son of DE.N'NIS '26 and brother of DENNIS '51; friend of Sr. M. JEAN OSF MA '67, and of WALTER MULFLUR '29; sister of FRANCIS .MEYER '30; Abbot JEROME KOVAL OSB '47; J. F. O'DON­NELL '49; sister of DAN KIMB.ALL '68; friend of BRIAN McMAHON '68; AL DECRANE '53. 

TOM GILLESPIE '39; sister of JI.M BOYLE '52; REX O'CO.VNOR '51 and his wife; wife of BOB SATTI '48 who is abo sister to JOHN '47 and JIM GRIFFIN '53; daughter of JOHN WES­SELS '40; daughter of RAY TROY '34 and sister of RICK '67; daughter of AL DEL20PPO '41; JACK WrrLIFF '32 and wife (SMC '32) who have two daughters (SMC '59, '61) and son. 
PHIL '70; mother of PETER '35 and COLIN 
SUTHERLAND '61; friend of Rev. ED SHEA 
CSC; parents of TO.M OBENCHAIN '56; JOH.V 
DUNN L.AW '61 and wife (SMC '61); DO.N 
GEHLHAUSEN '62; sister of LARRY EDWARDS 
'69; BOB H.AINE '53; JACQUES VEENEMAN 
'44 and his wife mentioning his brothers BILL '34 
and BOB '3i and nephew BILL JR. '61. 
A record: GEORGE JACKOBOICE '31 and 
wife ctiim sons GEORGE '63, JOHN '66, plus 
nine uncles who attended ND and knew Rev. 
SORIN pcisonally. Then came the QUINXS— 
CH.ARLES '34 and wife Kitty (S.MC '33) claim­
ing sons CHUCK '61, MA '63, KEVIN '68 and 
with them Kitty (SMC '62). 
Dutittguished ealUrs: Rev. THEODORE XL 
HESBURGH CSC '38; Rev. PAUL W.ALD­
SCHMIDT CSC, president of Portland U. and 
Rev. HOWARD KEXXA CSC, provincial of the 
Indiana IVovince. 
Recent arrivals lor Roman residence: JOE 
SI.MO.XS '44 and family and Rev. WILLIA.M 
HOGAN CSC as rector of Holy Cross Seminary. 
A dozen or more US colleges have utilized our 
service and their pennants on our walls have gone 
from 170 to 178. Loyola U. of Chicago's Rome 
campus brought vs 10 students whose d:ids arc 
ND men. Fight, Fight, Fight! 
—VIXCENT P. McALOON, Secretary 
ST. JOSEPH VAUEY ^^ ^ INDIANA 
The president of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph VaUey, ED AfcCARTHY '53, was host to the annual officers' and directors' outing on Aug. 17. Tlie directors and their wives held the evening's get-iogcther at the Associates Investment Co.'s "Lodge" near Nilcs, Mich. Special guests this year were the past presidents of the St. Joe VaHcy Cfub. Those attending were: LOUIS BRUGGNER '23, ROBERT HOLMES '30; ROB­ERT CAHILL '34; PAUL A. FERGUS '35; HARRY F. KOEHLER '37: WILLIAM J. GIB­BONS '38; DO.VALD FISHER *38; JOSEPH HANNAN '39; ROBERT LEH.MAN '44; JOSEPH HICKEY '50; EDWARD GR.AV '52; and JERRY HAMMES '53. 
On Sept. 13 the Club sponsored their annual luncheon for incoming freshmen irom the South Bend-Mishawaka area. CHUCK LENNOX '61 was chairman of the event which was held at Eddie's Restaurant. Thirty-five freshmen heard Dean William Burke of the Freshman Year of Studies speak, FoHoHing the annual custom, the Club's eight current scholarship holders were in­\itcd to wTclcome the new freshmen. 
Efforts arc now being directed toward arranging the annual Football Banquet honoring the '66 team. A date early in December has yet to be announced. 
—GEORGE SCHILLING, Secretary 
' SAN DIEGO, CAW, 
In the latter part of summer, the Club held a steak fry at the home of the CLEM O'NEILLs '56. The home of past president MARV RICK­LING '52 was the site of a gathering of Club members to watch the Notre Dame-Purdue game. On hand were RON THIEL '54, PHIL MARTI.N '45, CHUCK VANDEGRIFT '56, Dr. JlXf JOLIN '56 and JOHN .MORGAN *40. In October the annual picnic »»^a5 held wUh BILL QUINL.AN '58 as acting chairman under the direction of PHIL SHEA '49. JOH.N CIHAK '60 headed up the committee in charge of arranging for a bus trip to Los Angeles for the ND-Southem Cal game. 
The Club presented a trophy to the winner of the annual football game betivccn the two all-male Catholic high schoob in the area. President JOHN MORGAN '40 presented the trophy this year to the University of San Diego High School. The presentation of the trophy will be an annual event. 
—CLEM O'NEILL, Cor. Secretary 
SAN JOSE = 
At the July meeting, the Club held election of officers and voted to change the Club's name from West Central CaliL Club to the San Jose Club. The officers and board members instituted the neiy Club name to better pinpoint its geographic loca­tions. The ne>v officcis arc: BERT MILLEX '57, prcs.; BOB GIGEL '49, 1st VP; ED CLE.ARY '43, 2nd VP; TED SOBIERALSKI '54, sec: BOB FRUI.N '57, treas; Rev. ROBERT SWEENV CSC, chaplain. Elected to the board of directors were: BILL SHIXE '49, DAVE HICKEY '27, JACK 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER I9M DECEMBER 

O'KEEFE '30, WALT GILL '56, DICK KELCH 
•54 and FRED ARMSTRONG '31. 
The annual picnic w-as licid in late August. Chairman BOB FIGEL reported that approxi­mately 60 Notre Dame Alumni and families at­tended. The picnic was also the occasion for the Freshman Sendoff with five nctv freshmen as guests. Tliey wiere: PAT O'KEEFE, MARK DELLAM.ANO, JOHN FR.\VEL, ROGER LE­B,\RON and BILL CARTER. 
—TED SOBIERALSKI, Secretary 
' SPOKANE, WASH. 

The Club held its annual Football TV Party at 
the home of Mis. Robert L. Rotehford, mother 
of Dr. JIM ROTCHFORD '48 and BOB ROTCH­
FORD '49, on Sept. 24. Mrs. Rotehford u-as 
once again a gracious hostess to the following 
Club memben and their friends: TOM LALLY 
'06, Dr. DEE J. McGONIGLE '52, Dr. MIKE 
SMITH '59. FR.\NK HAGENBARTII '27, BER­
NIE SMYTH '55 and JOE WALSH '14. 
The Annual Retreat w-as made the weekend of 
Oct. 14 at Immaculate Heart Retreat House in 
Spokane. Plans arc being made for Universal Com­
munion Sunday in December at which time the 
election of oHiceis wilt take place. 
The Club is proud to note that with this Sep­
tember's increment of six there arc now 11 boys 
from Spokane attending the University. Included 
in this group are the sons of Dr. BOB AL\HER 
'35 and VINCE SLATT '43. 
—JOE WALSH, Sec-Trcas. 

^^ ^ TERRE HAUTE, IND. 
The Notre Dame Club of Tcrrc Haute under the direction of a new slate of oHicers has started another ambitious year. Leading the Club are: DICK CRONIN, pres.; ED LIEBLER, VP; MY­RON BUSBY JR., sec; CHARLES METZGER, treas.; Rev. JOHN ROGUS CSC, chaplain. Dur­ing the Club's regular monthly meeting President Dick Cronin appointed several committees to handle Club projects for the year. The iirst ^^"05 the annual Back-to-Noire-Damc Dinner for Fresh­men and returning students held on Sept. 13. JIM SULLIVAN and MIKE KEARXS took care of arrangements. Ncu- students from Tcrrc Haute no^v at ND Include DAVE SULLIVAN, MIKE ELDRED and KEVIN McCARTIIY. ED LIEB­LER and JAMES McCARTIIY returned for their junior year. All have graduated from Schultc Catholic H.S. in Terrc Haute. 
The next project the Club undertook was the annual bus trip to an ND footbaU game. The trip has become so popular that the Club had two buses for the ND-Purdue game this season. BERNIE BURDICK and MIKE KEARNS were In cliarge of the trip. 
—JIM BOYER, Secretary 
TRI-CITIES, IOWA ^ 

The summer and fall activities of the Notre Dame Club of the Tri-CIiies were primarily, with few exceptions, family affairs. The family picnic oi^nlzed in late June turned out appraximately 24 members and thcJr wives; but, the unoflicial 
count of children \-arIcd from 150 to 200. (The 
six-year-old daughter of Dr. JOHN SMITH—a 
urologist, of all things—attempted to surpass her 
record of 15 bottles of pop set at a previous outing. 
She was successful.) Only the older members of 
the Club, apparently grandparents of some expe­
rience, failed to arrive at this gathering. 
The Club's Fish Fry and Stag produced the 
customary blend of real and "subway" Alumni. 
Approximately 63 persons were scr\Td under the 
capable arrangements of TO.M COZAD and DES­
NIS BRITT. The evening was highlighted with 
the customary prize dniwlngs where fathers pulled 
the names of their sons^ 
MIKE UNDERWOOD and JIM DOYLE or­
ganized a very successful "Golf Stag and Dinner 
with Your Wife" Party at the Rock Island Arsenal 
Golf Club during the latter part of August. Only 
66 attended the dinner. Tliis low figure was at­
tributed to the fact that some of the high handi­
cap members did not get off the golf course 
in time. Also, the combination of sunny skies, 
fresh air and free cocktails restricted the count 
for dinner to those In a vertical position. 
The Club observed the ND Rugby Team In 
action on Oct. 22-23. In cooperation with the 
Davenport Rugby Club, we met with and saluted 
the members of the team at a party after Satur­
day's game. Game tickets were a\-ailabtc free from 
a local discount house which sponsored the affair 
and accounted for a large turnout resembling the 
family picnic mentioned above. 
—JOH.N T. GERWE, JR.. Sec-Treas. 
TRIPLE CITIES NEW YORK 

A successful Freshman Sendoff Party was held in September under the co-chairmanshIp of TOM BENEDICT and DICK HA-MFLV. Former Chib President JOE GALLOWAY and GEORGE HAINES represented the University at the annual Catholic College Night at Binghamton Catholic Central U.S. FR.\NK NORTON heads the com­mittee for the annual Communion Breakfast in December. 
^^ ^ TRI-STATE ^^ ^ EVANSVIUE, IND. 
September 21 was the occasion of a golfing 
afternoon followed by cocktails and dinner at tlic 
Jasper Country Club. Twenty Alumni and friends 
^\*ere on hand for the festivities which featured 
the IS65 "Football HighKghts." JOE RE.AM shot 
the lowest golf score with an 84. A family picnic 
was held Oct. 22 at Burdcttc Park just west of 
E\-ans\ille. 
—MACK STEWART, Secretary 

^^^^^ VIRGINIA ^^^^^ 
Columbus Day in the Old Dominion was a day of great rejoicing as our former president, direc­tor and founder of our local Alumni group and ND Man of the Year, CHARLIE LA FRATTA, \\-as nominated as a national director of the N D .-\lumni. Charlie is a "do-er" so please give him your support. 
RECIPIENT OF THE PHOENIX CLUB'S four-year scholarship, Mike Suarez IS proudly regarded by his mother, Mrs. Amalio Suarez, and 1965 Club President Art Erra. 
FRANK WALLMEYER. BOB HOWARD, 

JOHN UTZ and BOB McENTEE helped BERNIE 
NIERLE make a big success out of the ND-
Purdue TV Get-Together. The event was held in 
St. Bridget's cafeteria and was attended by 
Alumni, wives and their guests. 
ALEX McMURTRIE and FRANK KELLY or­

ganized the ND-Navy game trip and the South 
really rose again to invade the Quaker State. 
FRITZ HOLZGREFE and LEO BURKE pro­
^-tdcd abundant entertainment both U'ays. 
Fourteen members motored to the campus for 
the ND-North Carolina game and were guests 
at a Dixie post-game party given by the Wash* 
Mar-Va Club. 
—GORDON F. SUTUFF, Secretary 

• WASHINGTON, D.C ^ ^ 
What has seemed to he a disastrous start of a 
new year for the Notre Dame Club of Washington, 
VC has taken a turn for the better. Our Family 
Picnic originally scheduled for Oct. 1 was %vashed 
out by a heavy niin. It was rescheduled for Oct. 
15 at Fort Hunt Park. 
Club President WALT BRENNAN and family 
went to Europe but didn't get to see all they 
bad planned on. While in Switzerland his son 
came down with chicken pox and the family found 
themselves "peisona non grata" as far as England 
wtis concerned. "ZEKE" WOODS, member of 
the Board of Governors, had to resign because his 
company obtained an Army contract and Zeke 
will now be spending two pleasant years in Saigon. 
JACK O'COXXELL resigned as secretary when 
he left the area to accept a position at tbe U. of 
Minnesota. JIM KRAUSER is fiUins the post 
for the remainder of the teim. 
A general Club meeting was held Oct. 12 in the Caucus Room of the House Office Bldg. The agenda for the coming year was gone over and members were given the opportunity to offer any suggestions or air any grievances. The 1965 **Foot­ball Highlights" film was shown. Among those present were: JIM GKJTY '« , WAYNE ST. CLAIR '64, JAY G.\LLAGHER '61, BOB WIL­LIAMS '60, JOE MALOXEY '54, WALT BREN­NAN '41, CLIFF LETCHER '40, JOHN ME.AGH­ER '31, AL VIROSTER '56, JOE SULLIV.AN '36, BOB HUTCHISON '55, G.AY HAAS '29, PAUL FISHER '43, BILL .MIDDENDORF '43, BILL SH.ANNON '56, JOE BARROODY '62, JI.M GRAUSER '62, TOM JORLING '62, RAY RAEDY '62, FRANK VEE '35, JOHN D.ALY '50 of Portland, GAY H.A.AS JR. '57, TONY CASTORINA '56, TI.M SHEA '55, JACK LETH­BRIDGE '40, FRANK McOVRTHY '56, ROB­ERT COONEY '30, PAT CO.VWAY '30, BOB WILLIAMS SR. '29, JOE LIBBY '61, FRANK BEYTAGH '36, DON WILKIXS '27, JOE CLANCY '50, BILL SC.ANLAN '63 and JACK KENKEL '33. 
—lUYMOND RAEDY 
WICHITA 

The Notre Dame Club of Wichita sponsored a special 14.car train from Wichita to Norman, Okla. on Oct. 22 to enable some 300 fans of the Fighting Irish to attend the NIMDkbhoma U clash. Club President BILL D.AVITT and Vice-President NESTOR WEIG.AND JR. labored many long hours on the arrangements and publicity re­sulting in a thoroughly enjoyable trip for all. 
Noticed among the many ND alumni on the excursion were: GEORGE SCHW.ARTZ, Dr. B. P. CROWLEY, LAWRENCE WEIGANT>, TOM SAGG.AU, J. L. WEIG.AND, TED J. McDON-ALD, PAUL QUINX, Rev. D.AVID M.AX, PAT­RICK WOODWARD, P.*TRICK O'SHAUGH­NESSY and LARRY THOLEX. 
—LARRY THOLEN, Seti-Treas. 

^ = WESTERN WASHINGTON ^ ^ 
The Club's annual Family Picnic was held Aug. 14 at Lake Sammamlsh State Piirk. JIM LYONS '54 \%-as chairman of the e\ent. The Freshman Sendoff tocjic place later that month on Aug. 26. In September, Club members got together at ibc home of JIM LYONS for a TV game party for the M)-Purduc game. The Communioo Break­fast was held Dec 8. 
The officers heading the Club for the coming year are: TO.M MAY '55, pres.; JACK HUFF *47, VP; OLIE FLOR »60, sec; BOB MORTEN­SEN '52, treas. The Club also named new direc­tors: DON ZECH, '54, MILLARD BATTLES '54 and OLIE FLOR '60 are ser\-ing in the Seattle area; MLL CLUSSERATH '55 is director for Tacoma; JIM DALEY '59 is director-at-Iarge. 
f
The long-standing academic debate 
over the issue of research versus teaching has brought togedier in verbal clash two Alumni facult}'. Their points of view extend beyond the traditional association of teaching ^vith the arts ^i and research with the sciences. Stirring Alumni involvement in a rhajor academic controversy their inquiiy into the primaiy role of today's university inaugurates a series of ALUMNUS articles diat will explore the Concepts of Academe. 
by Edward J. Cronin A short time/ago I was sitting with a\ group ot my colleagues id the Faculty Lounge in CtShaughnessy when they Iregan discussing the qualificatiobs of several candidates Avho were applying for a position in their department One of my colleagues liked the dissertation of one off the candidates and thought the dis^rtation a potential/mine of future "articles." AnotherWiked an article Aiother candidate had written. A thirtaliked a third cfcndidate's research grant. And then I s^d in a quiet /oice — Ran any of these teach?" -.an any of them what?" they answered as on\. tven my learned and respected colleague, Prof«sor M4sey, will vouch that this incident is not apocrypnal, thft it is not uncommon, that it is becoming even l\ss acommon and above all, he will admit, that the teacfl ig qualifications of a teacher are becoming less and le nportant. to a point somewhere on the other side of ^zero. And yet this successful candidate for a teaching position who will have achieved his success by proving his competence at everything else but teaching will be paid by the University to face undergraduates and, somehow or other, instill in them the love of learning so that they will leam to teach themselves; and the University %vill be paid by the parents of the under­graduates so that the young men and women will be taught. And yet the "teacher" \vill be kept on and promoted and given increases in salary, not by how well he teaches and knows his students and is known by them, but by the number of (and seldom the quality of) the 
MAtiMMBriiMica "W 
f concepts of ACADEME 
With wonted/lypersensitivity to the National pulse. 
Time magazin* reported in May of this tear that "the 
number of bo/ed, hostile and inadequate cpllege teachers 
adds up to JSomething between a serious Voncern and 
an outright/candal."^ Among the majority bf academic 
physicians A'ho have reflected on this probl&n there is 
unprecedented consensus both with respect tA diagnosis 
and prescription. The cause, they declare, lie* in what 
US Health, Education and Welfare Secretary John 
Gardne/ has styled "the flight from teaching,"\.e. the 
repugmnce to and retreat from college teachingten the 
part of that irresponsible maverick, the research-landed 
profe/sor. 
^iven the diagnosis, the remedy is obvious: UpAade 
teazling by downgrading research. AdministratorsVire 
ur/ed to flush the researchers from their dens, de 
aJd laboratories and march them back into tBe /assroom, to re\\'ard good teaching with academy promotion and salary increases, to discount or even /disregard such tradiuonal indexes of research andl professional competence as PhD certificates and schol­arly or scientific publications. The administrator who practices this preaching is heralded as an academic messiah, saving the sacred groves of academe from 
research-incited conflagration. 
Thus, for example, Ohio University President 
Vernon Alden merited the ultimate kudos, a pat on the 
back from Time for "promoting good young teachers, 
even TOthout PhD's or published research, over the 
heads of their elders to full professor rank."­
I myself happen to belong to a minority which. by Gerald J. Massey 
 turns out. Sound messy and fraudulent and irrational? So it 
teaching 
articles he 

is. And yet it is, once understood, a very simple game with very simple rules and an ex­tremely simple scoring sj'stem. 
AVhat "teacher" wins (tliat is, gets the rank and the increases in salar>') ?" The teacher who spends the least time teaching and die most time scoring points or "articles"] AVhat teacher loses? The one who teaches! The one who spends most time preparing for his classes, who teaches like hell from bell to bell, and tlien, not satisfied, opens his office door to those who haven't yet learned. He is the naive poor soul who, instead of reading over his undergraduate's papers—or having anotlier undergraduate read tlicm over—corrects his papers and who often spends an hour or more on tlie prose of a freshman and tlien hauls tlie freshman into his office and spends two more hours on the freshman and the paper, until both begin to look like the prod­ucts of a college. He does the same thing the next day and the ne.Kt week and the next year until finally, if he is a very good teacher and a very persistent fellow, and if he has a bit of luck, he turns out—not an article —but something of even greater value—a student. But tliis foolish fellow—foolish because he still believes the function of a teacher is to teach—loves to teacli. 
He loves to teach, but this does not mean that he is "only a teacher" and not a scholar, for, like Chaucer's clerk, "gladly would he learn and gladly teach." I have fought this battle too many times to be forced into a distinction between teaching and scholarship or research. The good teacher must first of all know his stuff; he must, as far as it is possible, be a master of his subject matter. So tlie good teacher must be a scholar; he must have much to do with books and learning, tlie very stuff of schools. And he must do research. He must, if he as to teach well, search again —- research — his material. He cannot give, for a second or a fort)'-second time, his course from crinkled, yellowed notes. I have taught Joyce's Ulysses perhaps ten times in the last dozen years. I always read the book again, every page, every 
(continued on page 52) 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER W66 DECEMBER 

• while no less conscious or con­rP^P3rP n *^^™'^'^ ^^''^ P°°'^ college teaching, ' VwWM I Wl l jj persuaded that the anti-research diagnosis and prescription are \\Tongheaded. Speaking for this minoritj'j Professor William Hutchinson of Amer­ican University recently remarked diat "inferior teaching is not going to be corrected by diagnoses that are even more inferior; and the anti-research diagnosis applies remotely, it at all, in the case of 95 per cent of our institutions. Some 2,000 of die 2,100 colleges and universities could scarcely be staffed at all if appoint­ment^ retention and promotion depended upon quantity of scholarly production."^ If anything, Hutchinson's figures are too conserva­tive. The infoi-mation assembled by Allan Cartter in his recent Assessment of Quality in Graduate Education suggests tiiat only a small handful of our colleges and universities could be staffed if research were taken seriously. On the basis of his study of economics research, Cartter concludes tiiat "amidst all die current con­ti-ovei-sy over the 'publish or perish' dictum, there appears little evidence diat this has applicability below die most distinguished departments."'' And the same conclusion was borne out for all the other disciplines surveyed by Cartter. Instead of research impairing educational effectiveness, Cartter found that "depart­
mental strength is directly associated with quantity of publication performance."" 
The anti-research diagnosis of poor college teaching, therefore, is not merely wrong but tragically pernicious. It leads to remedies which only serve to aggravate the disease. If adapted at the leading" universities, these 
!?/* remedies would soon render mediocre die teaching at the very institutions where alone good teaching can generally be found, precisely b-cause their faculty are professionally, active in their. respective fields: For example, if per. irnpossibile Harvard were to adopt these remedies, within a decade that great'university would 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 

Gerald J. Massey is currently an associate professor of philos­ophy at Michigan State University. A 1956 "maxima cam laude" graduate of Notre Dame, he was named a Fulbright Scholar, a Woodrow Wilson and Danforth Fellow. Holder of two master's degrees, from ND in I960 and Princeton in 1962, Dr. Massey earned his PhD from Princeton in 1964. 
be scarcely distinguishable from Upper Heights Com­munity College. 
If anyone thinks that I mean to Justify research by pointing to its pedagogical value, let me disabuse him of that thought immediately. Even the anti-researchers acknowledge that some research is helpful and even necessary to good teaching. But, as Hutchinson puts it, they make research sound like "an intellectual sauna bath, a way of keeping the tired academic mind in trim."" Hutchinson points out that they overlook the really significant connection between the two, viz. that the whole higher educational enterprise rests upon the books, monographs and articles spawned by the research-minded scholar and scientist. I wish to go Hutchinson one better and say, not merely that the anti-researchers minimize the importance of research for teaching, but that tiiey miss the whole point of the university. 
The anti-researchers conceive a university to be pri­marily an educational institution, a corporate body whose principal function is teaching. Historically, universities did begin as educational institutions. Quite expectedly, there has been no want for the philosopher willing to identify the history of universities with their destiny. John Henry Cardinal Newman, for example, believed not only that it was "as a matter of history, the business of a university .. . to employ itself in the education of the intellect"'; but also that education ought to be its first concern. Writing of the university, Newman declared that "its function is intellectual culture; here it may leave its scholars, arid it has done its work when it has done as much as this."? The locus classicus of the teaching concept of the university is Newman's Idea of the University. 
Antithetical to the teaching concept is an idea'of the university which I will call the research concept. This blueprint depicts the university as, first and fore­most, a community of men solemnly charged by society to promote the various arts and sciences. It matters not that society's motive is enlightened self-interest. Society knows (die land-grant insight) that from the labors of tills community there will flow incalculable practical advantages, ranging from better fertilizer and more efficacious medical care to an informed and rational citizenry. AVhat does matter, so far as the obligations of die university facult)' are concerned, is the charge itself. Now the essence of the charge is professionalism; The professor of' physics is enjoined to be just that, viz. one who professes or practices physics, i.e., an expert physi­cist. The same holds for the professor, of history or'of philosophy or of • whatever discipline ; one cares to mention. 
From the perspective of the research concept of the university, the scholarly and scientific activity of. the faculty is seen as their primary business, not as a secondary and questionable activity ancillary to tefach­ing. Quite the reverse; it is now teaching that needs justification. The justification, thbugh forthcoming, is indirect and far from obvious. Indeed, if it were possible to carry on higher education elsewhere, i.e. outside the 
• -(continued en page S3) 
word, before I teach it I first of all research the most important materi­
teaching 

al, die text itself. And then I read and reread any critique or evaluation of Ulysses that can illuminate my students' reading. I do this with every te-xt I teach, and if this is not scholarship and research then I don't know the meaning of the terms. 
I do not make a distinction between "mere teach­ing" and research or scholarship: they go together like body and soul in man. But I do distinguish scholarship and research from "publishing". Scholarship and re­search have to do with the search for truth, one of the two primary ends of teaching (the other is letting stu­dents in on the game). But "publishing", as it is prac­ticed at most universities today, has nothing to do with the search for truth j "publishing" is more a branch of the printing industry and has therefore a close kinship widi The Racing Form and The Reader's Digest. Nine out of 10 "publications" are a sad waste of paper; they are by no means dedicated to the search for truth {The Racing Form has much better credentials); their purpose is the promotion, not of the truth but of the publisher. In other words, a horrifyingly large percent­age of these publications are actually exercises in aca­demic gamesmanship. To get ahead, you don't teach, you publish. The result is that, increasingly, teaching is mere apprentice's work, suffered until one can .him­self become a "publisher^' and have, in turn, other apprentices doing the degrading task of teaching for him. The result is that those who need the very best teachers—the freshmen and the imdergraduates—are more and more being taught by part-time instructors and graduate assistants in ever larger classes, while the "big men in the department" are proving their success by teaching less and less to fewer and fewer. There must be some name for this law—like Gresham's or Parkinson's—^but there is a sure principle, of success at a university: the greater your academic standing, the fewer students you teach. Perfection, here, is zero. I do not blame the "publishers", they are merely playing well the game set up by the universities, and the purpose of that game, for the publishers and the universities, is to be known, not for the human beings you tium out, but for your articles or your departments. We teachers are patientiy waiting until the parents discover that they are not pajTng for the teaching of their sons and daughters, but for the aggrandizement of the publisher and, through him, the university. This is the dry rot in the halls of i\y. 
I make one other distinction. There are some few, some very few men—teachers and publishers—^who teach extremely well and who also publish significant articles and books. But these are the giants of academe not only because they do two things well—^publish and teach—but also because their publishing and their teaching interact upon and enrich the other. There is also the happy accident of the teacher's bursting into intermittent research song. But to argue that most men can teach full time and publish full time—and do both well—is unrealistic. To argue also tiiat one cannot teach well unless one is "engaged in research" is to hallow the gamesmanship of the last 25 years and to forget the centuries of publication-free teaching. To argue that the proper function of a university, which is filled -vvdth undergraduates who are supposed to be learning, is to turn out research men is to commit several heresies: first and most seriously it is to neglect the great bulk of tuition-payers and to hand them over to frustrated^pprentices; it is, again, to be ignorant of the great universities of the past and their tradition of 
teaching; it is to make the universit)' the catch-all for any research project that the marketeers may wish to push upon the public; it is to take money for one thing and to use it for something else; it is to neglect Cardinal Newman's fruitful distinction between tiie diffusion and extension of knowledge and its advancement. 
l>.>.i»-.4 *-V , 

This distinction has served the medical profession well: in the labs are the research specialists advancing the healing sciences, and much too busy working at their specialty to be pulling tonsils and delivering babies; in the offices and hospitals are the practicing physicians using the knowledge of the specialists to advance the art of healing. It would be a bad day for the medical profession and an even worse one for the patients if the practicing physician were ever to get the impression that he had to be a scientist to be a good physician, or that his dedicated care of the ill was somehow of lesser value than the work of the scientist. And yet my pro­fession is encouraging this attitude to the detriment of the research specialist, the teacher, and most impor­tantly, to the student. 
I would like to end with a gentie homily, from a gentie man and a great teacher—so great that he even taught me something. The late Re%'. Leo L. Ward CSC once heard a young instructor refer to a student as "what's his name". "Young man," said Father Ward, "remember—every student has a name that is to be known and a destiny that is to be reckoned with." Only teachers know students' names and are concerned about their destinies. • . " 
AlUMNUS NOVEMBER \966 DECEMBER 

• community of scholars and scientists |'pCp51|'pl 1 which makes up the university, then I WWVM I Wl l JJU interests would probably be best 
served by having it so done. But, almost by definition, 
higher education constitutes that part of the pedagogical 
enterprise that can be carried on only in and through 
a community of professionals, and I mean professional 
scholars and scientists, not professional teachers. Thus 
the justification for making universities secondarily 
institutions of higher learning derives from the im­
possibility of having an institution of higher learning 
which is not a university. (The service function of the 
university lends itself to an analogous justification.) 
My critics will counter tliat the research concept of the university fits only a handful of prestigious institu­tions like Haivard, Princeton and M.I.T., that it describes not a modem university but a research haven like the Institute for Advanced Study. I reply that I have not intended to describe what our so-called uni­versities are; I gladly leave that task to the sociologist. I have tried, rather, to fathom what our universities ought to be. It should surprise no one that only a few of these institutions, the recognizably superior ones, exemplify the research concept of the university, i.e. are what they pretend to be. The rest are perpetrating a fraud. Self-identification as institutions of higher educa­tion, even when coupled witli express renunciation of research ambitions, makes them no less fraudulent. For, as I have suggested, higher education apart from re­search is impossible. The question whetlier the Institute for Advanced Study is a university or not is, I think, more verbal than substantive. The answer depends on the number of disciplines for which one requires sig­nificant representation before he is willing to confer the title "university." Equally verbal is the distinction, which I have ignored, between a college and a university; my remarks are meant to apply to the one as much as to the other. 
There are, then, not one but t\vo quite distinct problems of inferior college teaching. The first concerns the 95 per cent or more of our colleges and universities wherein research plays an insignificant or non-existent role. The second problem, much less serious than the . first, concerns the other 4 or 5 per cent. Now it is con­ceivable that the second problem- stems from an in­ordinate reluctance of the research-minded faculty to engage in the higher educational function of the imi­versity. (I seriously doubt that the foregoing is more than a nuisance factor, except where excessive use is made of graduate teaching assistants. I suspect that a few incompetents who have somehow infiltrated the faculty are responsible for most of the inferior teaching at these quality institutions.) But it is ludicrous to lay universal blame for inferior college teaching, as the anti-researchers do, on a factor which is negligible, as the but 4 or 5 per cent of the indicted institutions. 
Failing to distinguish the two problems, the anti-... 
,; „ >. 
researchers prescribe a remedy altogether inapplicable in at least 95 per cent of the cases and probably harm­ful in the remaining few. The first problem, the one facing most of our colleges and universities, is no simple matter of ameliorating the higher education which they already offer. It poses, rather, a more radical challenge, that of making these institutions capable of offering higher education in the first place. Here the remedy is not to curtail research, but to get it started! 
1.
 "Teaching: To Profess mth a Passion," Time, p. 80, ifay 6, 1966. 

2.
 Ib!d., p. 83. 


3.
 William R. Hutchinson,. *'Docs Scholarship Hamper Teaching? ** The National Observer, p. 18, July 4, 1966. (Excerpted from The American Scholar, v. '33, No. 3, Siimracr 1966.) 

4.
 Allen M. Carttcr, An Assessment of.Quality in Graduate Education. (Wasl)ington, D.C.: American Council on Education, 1966), p. 81. 

5.
 Ibid., p. 118. 


6.
 Hutcliinson, op; cit., p. 18. ' . • • 

7.
 John Hcnrj* Cardinal Newman, The Idea of a University, (New York: Doubleday S Co., Image Boots, 1959), p. 149. 

8.
 tbid., p. 149 



ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 19«6 DECEMBER 

'm /:lsC-f^^ 
^ • T'' 4 33 r. 72?. J8^ l?f 2r :i 
r r ' : f 3 

^•' ,3< ,.22r 31/73 . 40^78 ^"52 ^-^.p .-^ -,^ 
"'^•
^ ; 5 ' -; 5^ ^96^ -3C ^. 69 , \2 -.^ ; -7? 6, s; 71 76 Q7^ 47-61 ^64 54 51.
go 
^i^^i;^^^^ •••' '* 
'-d^ 

1966 National Football Champions 
Front row—Don Gmitter. Paul Seiler, Tom Regner, Tom Rhoods, Nick Eddy, Copl. Jim Lynch, Pete Duronko, George Goeddeke, John Horney, Alan Page end Larry Conior. Second row—Bob Hagerty, Tim Gormon, Dick Swotlond, Leo Collins, Jim Kelly, Joe Marsico, Angelo Schirolli, Ron Jeziorski, Horry Alexander, Hugh O'MolIey, Allen Sack, Kevin Hardy ond Dove Zurowski. Third row—Gerold Kelly, Dove Martin, Mike Heaton, Dove Haley, Paul May, Rudy Konieczny, Tom O'Leary, Mike Kuzmicz, Steve Quinn, Bob Bleier, Tom Schoen, John Pergtne, Mike McGill, Jim Ryan ond Tim Wengierski. Fourth row—John Lium, Alan VonHuffel, Lou Fournier, Kevin Rassas, Mike Burgener, Dan Horshmon, Jim Smithberger, Chuck Groble, Don Dickmon, Joe Freebery, Mike Farley, Bob Zubek, Roger Fox, Tom Quinn, Mike Bars, Bill Bartholomew ond Monoger Jock Sullivan. Fifth row—Head Manager Al Kramer, Manager Kevin Moron, Mike Holtzapfel, Chuck LandolR, Fred Schnurr, Bill Skoglund, Chuck Louck, Eric Norri, Tom Slettvet, Tom Reynolds, Bob Gladleux, Mike Franger, Paul Snow, Ed Vuillemin, Bob Kuechenberg and Coley O'Brien. Sixth row—Pat Schroge, John Lovin, Jim Seymour, Terry Hanratty, Curt Heneghon, Jim Leahy, Fronk Criniti, Tim Monty, Tom McKinley, George Kunz, Brion Stenger and Trainer Gene Poszkiet. Bock row— Coaches Brian Boulac, George Sefcik, Jerry Wompfler, Tom Pagno, Heed Cooch Aro Porseghion, Poul Shoults, John Roy, Joe Yonto ond Wolly Moore. 
(continued from page 7) 
Pre-season odds. Few if any would have made such a statement at the season's start. Coach Ara Parscghian, prior to the September 24 opener against Purdue, intimated it would be a year of rebuilding. The defensive secondary and an entirely new offen­sive attack led by a sophomore quar­terback, were yet to be tried. But as the season progressed it became readily apparent tliat diese first-year players were more tiian just ordinary "kid sophomores." 
In tlie season's opener before a na­tionwide T\'^ audience two such youngsters started people thinking that a national championship was possibly in the offing for Notre Dame. An 18-year-old Terr)' Hanratty passed to 19-year-old Jim Sej-mour for tliree touchdown aerials and 276 yards. Hanratt)''s total passing output that day of 304 yards sent statisticians scrambling for record books — and Purdue reelinsr. 
Purdue 26-14. Besides the debut of ND's "baby bomber" combination, Nick Eddy electrified a capacity home crowd with his 98-yard kickoff return following the Boilermaker's first TD. It was also a day for the defense as Coach Jolinny Ray's boys gave stingy yardage to AU-American quarterback Bob Griese. 
NU 35-7. The Northwestern game, October 1, was Ara's first engage­ment against NU on Wildcat territory since he left Evanston for South Bend. The week-long publicity buildup ex­pounded die belief diat old players and stadiu m surroundings would haunt the ND coach. However, at game's end — 35-7 Notre Dame — the Wildcats knew they needed more than just past memories if they had hoped to stop Nick Eddy's 56-yard runaway and tlie 14 of 23 pass com­pletions by Hanratty. 
Army 35-0. The undefeated Black Knights of tlie Hudson came to Notre Dame for the 38th renewal of the ND-Cadet series and learned with­in opening minutes what sheer Irish power meant. All five touchdowns in ND's 35-0 rout of the AVest Pointers came in the first half. 
NC 32-0. The Tarheels of North Caro­lina, minus dieir injured star quarter­back, Billy Talbott, were next to suc­cumb to the Irish passing attack, 32-0. Once again, Hanrattj' and Se)'mour teamed up for a 56-yard bomb. 
OU 38-0. Throughout all of die red-clay cbuntry of Oklahoma the next week. Sooner fans were whooping it up with "Pounce on the Fighting Irish." Pounce they did but all they wound up .with were several 15-yard penalities as the Irish scalped their fifth straight vicdm, 38-0. The tenth-ranked Sooners with their bantam­weight team fell xdctim as a result of Eddy's two TD spurts and Hanratty's passing and newly discovered running ability. 
Navy 31-7. From Norman, Oklahoma, to John F. Kennedy Stadium in Phila­delphia, the Irish traveled to take on the Navy who had an even 3-3 record. With John Homey replacing Mike McGill and three alternating split ends handling the receiving chores vacated by Jim Se)'mour, Notre Dame wore down a uiry, well-conditioned Mid­shipman eleven, 31-7. 
Pitt 40-0. Pitt's Panthers gummed up the Irish attack the first half to a degree which hadn't been seen all this season. At halftime, Notre Dame re­tired to its locker room by a \\'inning margin of only 7-0. What transpired therein still is not known for certain, but if the second half kickoff was any reflection, it must have been nothing short of Rockne's return. 
Duke 64-0. The final 59,075 out of 295,375 fans to see the Fighting Irish at home, watched Ara empty his en­tire bench of 64 ball players as Notre Dame routed the Blue Devils of Duke, 64-0. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER ^966 DECEMBER 
And then MSU. Monday morning, November 14, brought headlines pro­claiming the Saturday playoff between the Irish and the Spartans as the "game of the decade," if not the "cen­tury" according to others. 
MSU 10-10. The story of the game is accurately reflected in the final 10-10 score of the contest. For both teams, the game was one of defense, a touch­down, more defense, a field goal and still more defense. Insofar as records are concerned the game didn't prove a thing. There was neither a loser nor a winner and in the minds of many the issue of the number-one team had not been resolved. 
The polls. The weekend's UPI ballot­ing by the nation's football coaches resulted in Michigan State being given the number-one rating. However, in the Associated Press poll, determined by the sports writers and broadcasters, Notre Dame was still number one. 
Controversy ensued during the days that followed. It became so pro­nounced that in Detroit a debate was held between the two universities' de­bate teams to determine the issue. The decision, handed down by three sports writers from the Detroit area, was in favor of Notre Dame. Meanwhile, in Cleveland, the city's morning paper. The Plain Dealer, conducted a grand­stand managers' poll in which the Irish were again victors — 1,384 for ND, 965/o for MSU, 129 for co-champs, and 28/2 for Alabama. 
So. Cai. 51-0. Despite all the furor and bantering, the Fighting Irish shifted their attention to the season's finale against Southern California. Particu­lar concern had to be given the matter of just how Notre Dame would field an offensive unit. An improved shoul­der enabled Eddy to return to the lineup where he teamed with Larry Conjar, Coley O'Brien and defensive halfback Dan Harshman to round out the backfield. Regular halfback. Bob Bleier, was declared out of action due to a bruised kidney. 
Interested in little more than just beating the Rose Bowl-bound Trojans, the Irish set out for the Los Angeles Coliseum with bits and pieces from its first three teams. 
SLxty minutes of football produced for the Irish 51 points, nothing for Southern California. The stomping handed the tenth-ranked Trojans was enough of a final-bid effort to merit tlie national football championship. 
The -finale. Notre Dame's season was complete for all but one thing: a 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1964 DECEMBER 

shower dunking for Coach Ara Par­seghian. Wasting no time after the final gun, the team tossed the jubilant, fully clothed coach into the water. It not only was in celebration of the championship win but also the 100th E victory for Parseghian in his coaching career. 
Ara later labeled the 1966 Fighting Irish "the best team" he had ever coached. He credited this year's suc­cess to a talented ball club, the leader­ship of team captain Jim L)'nch, the dedication of his assistant coaches and, in general, the support and helpfulness of the University and student body. 
It once more bespoke the team effort required to attain a champion­ship year, an undeniable fact that was evidenced just as readily in 1924 — the first national championship — as in 1966 — the ninth national cham­pionship. 
"The greatness of the team has been the delight and inspiration of the press all over the country until, in desperation, someone started the crossword-puzzle craze for the purpose of increasing the vocabulary of adjectives with which the team might be de­scribed. 
"Whether it be the 'Four Horsemen of Notre Dame' or the 'Flying Buttresses of Notre Dame' 
 ',  
­^  
that have been acclaimed so uni­ 
versally, the  Notre  Dame  man  
knows  that  the  success  of  this  
group of boys has behind it  the  
same  background  as  preceding  
years. The factors have been good  
material, the finest coaching in the  
country, co-operation of  student  
body, faculty, coaches and  team,  
and the spirit that has been in­ 
herited from the teams that have  
gone before.  
THE NOTRE  DAME  
ALUMNUS  
December, 1924 \  

TERRY HANRATTY Mere Sophomores 
JIM SEYMOUR 
IRISH OFFENSIVE WAIL Impenetrable - Imperturbable 
COLEY O'BRIEN 
ComtiMuiny Education 
For the Notre Dame family to re­fresh their own knowledge or more importantly to pass the football torch on to new generations, Frank 'Wal­lace's ('23) new book on the gridiron pageantry of the Rockne years and the 35 years that have followed can be recommended. {NOTRE DAME: From Rockne to Parseghian, David McKay Co., New York. $5.95.) 
Few authors have had such con­tinuous firsthand knowledge of their material through so many vital years of its forming. Frank AVallace was a sports •imter when he was a student on the campus serving under Knute Rockne. And from his cub daj-s in the profession, Wallace devoted much time and study each year to the tragedy-shortened saga of Knute Ken­neth Rockne and subsequently to the nature, the record, and die impact of Rockne's successors. 
Wallace twites with die well-trained clarity of a professional and the friendly style of a member of the fam­ily. He has some of the old-fashioned "faults." He is an obvious hero­worshipper of Rockne. He believes that football is a great sport, ^vhich has exerted good and broad influences on young men and colleges, and on the public. He wears the blue and gold of Notre Dame on his sleeve, reaching out his loyalty from football to all the people and achievements that have evolved a great University. 

Because he knew the genius of Rockne firsthand and the obstacles which beset even the Rockne path to immortality, he has a unique insight and a commendable compassion for the successors who inherited the Notre Dame tradition on March 31, 1931. The book is pleasant and convincing reading. It is good history. The school of iconoclasm will not use it as a textbook. But anyone who wishes to inspire young men with a story of sound principles, idealism, dedication and tradition ^vill find thb new book of the veteran journalist an effective shortcut , 
No Controversy Here 
With the football season now com­pleted and graduation taking its toll of a number of key Irish players, much 
attention at spring practice wU be 
given this year's Notre Dame fresh­
man group. And like last year's 
group of newcomers, they show a lot 
of promise. 
This fall the ND frosh went un­
defeated in their first season of inter­
collegiate competition. Playing a 
short two-game schedule. Coach Wal­
ly Moore's first-year boys swamped 
the visiting Pitt Frosh, 29-0, in late 
October and then traveled to East 
Lansing where, on the eve of the 
Irish's historic tie with the Spartans, 
they edged the fledglings of Michi­
gan State, 30-27. 
From the freshman team. Head Coach Ara Parseghian particularly will be looking for men to replace his graduating defensive line, two line­backers and at least four offensive linemen. Among those who will be competing for starting berths on ne.xt year's defensive line will be tackle Mike McCoy, 6-5, 270, from Erie; tackle Bob Jockisch, 6-3, 260, from Peoria; end Jay Ziznewski, 6-7, 250, from Perth Amboy, N.J.; end George Kelly, 6-3, 237, from Butler, Pa.; and end Randy Harkins, 6-3, 225, firom Athens, Ohio. 
At the linebacker positions help will be coming from freshmen Vito Ra­canelli, 6-1, 210, from Chicago, and Jim Merlitti, 6-0, 195, from Akron, Ohio. While top candidates for of­fensive line positions are center Larry Vuillemin, 6-3, 240, from Akron; tackle Terry Brennan, 6-4, 230, from Chicago, a nephew of former ND great John Lattner; and Charles Kennedy, 6-3, 225, from Claymont, Del. 
Roekne of the West 
Edward P. "Slip" Madigan, 70, a star lineman for Notre Dame during the Rockne era and an outstanding coach in his own right, died Oct, 10 in Oakland, Calif. 
He played center on the 1919 un­defeated Notre Dame team with such notables as George Gipp, Buck Shaw, Hunk Anderson and Roger Kiley. Slip modeled himself after Knute Rockne and it showed itself in his coaching. Eulogizing Slip, Arthur Daley of the New York Times called him "the poor man's Rockne." But he was poor only in terms of what he had to work \vith. His dynamism and personality conquered the debits and made him and his teams outstanding. 

When Madigan took over as coach of tiny St. Mary's College, Oakland, Calif., in 1921 it took all his drive and inventiveness to even field a team. Eleven football players were hard to come by in a school with only 74 students. But Slip was undaunted. His inventiveness and drive soon gave St. Mary's a pride in their team. He had students suit up and sit on the bench to give the illusion of team depth; he himself put cleats on regu­lar shoes because the team just didn't have the money for regulation shoes; his \vife patched the torn jerseys after each game; he passed out free tickets to the games to fill the stands and give his team a rooting section. 
In his first year the Gaels lost to rival California 20-0—quite a come­back from their previous year's loss of 127-0. By die 1930's Madigan's teams were famous nationally and thousands jammed stadiums from New York to San Francisco for matches bet\vcen the powers of foot­ball and St. Mary's. In 1938 the Gaels defeated Texas Tech to win the Cotton Bowl. 
Slip Madigan left St. Mary's in 1940 and went on to a career first with Iowa and then the pro ranks as general manager of the Los Angeles Dons. In his later years he left the world of sport for the world of busi­ness and became successful in real estate and as a contractor. 
He died a week before his 71st birthday, but the memory of one of football's most colorful coaches lives on. James Ryan, secretary for die Class of '20, offers a Notre Dame eulogy: "In memory of one of our most talented and charming class­mates, Edward Patrick Madigan, who came to Notre Dame as a freshman full of Irish charm and with a smiling contagious friendship for everyone, we are indeed sad." 
•—i 
^ 1967 FOOTBALL Sept 23 California Sepf 30 at Purdue Oct. 7 Iowa Oct., 14 Southern California Oct. 21 at Illinois Oct. 28 Michigan State Nov. 4 Navy Nov. 11 at Pittsburgh Nov. 18 at Georgia Tech Nov. 28 at Miami 
1966-67 BASKETBALL 
Dec. 1 Lewis College 
Dec. 3 at Toledo 
Dec. 7 Detroit 
Dec. 10 at Evansville 
Dec. 14 St. Norbert 
Dec. 17 St. John's at Jamaica 

Dec. 20 Indiana at Fort Wayne -s 
Dec. 23 at UCLA 
Dec. 26-29 Rainbow Classic, 
Honolulu 

T 
Dec. 31 Kentucky at Louisville 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 

Then, there was the time •. 
Fifty Years Ago, Big improvements were made on the things won't get much better. The not-so-Fighting Irish atliletic field this year. The football gridiron was laid hit rock bottom last week in losing to a Navy Club that out inside the track oval and a new permanent stand is just so-so compared to the powers of the East. We was erected. The baseball grandstand was moved to the don't mean to be vicious or unnecessarily rough but it north end of the field and a new playing diamond con­would be good to see again that old knock-down, drag­structed. . . . Notre Dame athletics have been improving em-out brand of football that we have been used to for for years, and witli the constant cooperation of members so many years. —Scholastic, Nov. 9, 1956 of the faculty, atliletic officials and the student body, they should continue to improve. —DOME, 1917 Five Years Ago. At the rally for freshmen two weeks be­
fore the season opener with Oklahoma, an unidentified Twenly-five Years Ago. With the end of the collegiate frosh started a chant, "We're Number One!" This gridiron season near, ambitious and imaginative bowl turned into an obsession with both the team and the 
game directors begin rumors that Notre Dame may com­student body for the first month of school. However, pete in their respective extravaganzas. . . . The Rev. 
only the freshmen and a few gung-ho upperclassmen John Cavanaugh CSC, vice-president of the University actually expected anything close to this. Three years of and chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics, frustrating football had turned many of the students and told us Sunday: "The general policy of the University fans into cynics. The cynics said to wait at least until is not to participate in any bowl game. There is no dis­after the first game before awarding the Irish the na­position whatsoever on the part of tlie University to 
tional crown. —Scholastic Football Review, 1961 
change that policy." Notre Dame has had that policy for 
15 years, adopting it shortly after the Irish beat Stanford In an unparalleled finish, Notre Dame's Fighting Irish in tlie Rose Bowl game of 1925. Notre Dame feels that turned what looked to be a heartbreaking defeat into its players and coaches descr\-e the rest after a long sea­one of football's sweetest victories. Granted a second son which began with spring practice last March. 
try, Joe Perkowski unleashed his gifted foot, arching the —Scholastic, Nov. 21, 1941 pigskin 41 yards through the uprights and into the tenth row of the stadium seats, though the stadium clock 
Fifteen Years Ago. Last Saturday Michigan State's spar­
showed : 00 time remaining. 
kling Spartans made tlieir big bid for the National Col­
—Scholastic Football Review, 1961 
legiate Championship as they smashed Notre Dame's bewildered griddcrs 35-0. Last weekend's encounter at 
One Year Ago. Tomorrow in the stadium that Rockne 
East Lansing was touted by many as tlie game of the built, Notre Dame plays Michigan State University. 
year. It may well have been the game that made Mich­Michigan State has won nine games and lost none. They igan State tlie National Champs of '51. 
are the champions of the Big 10. They are the number 
—Scholastic, Nov. 16, 1951 
one team in the nation. So what else is new? Get serious Ten Years Ago. Well tlie question now is—^just when it is sports fans. This is what the nation's newspapers are all going to end? Terry Brennan's charges are riddled calling the "game of the year." with sophomores, injuries and defeats and it looks like —Scholastic, Nov. 19, 1965 
Jan.  7  Air Force  Feb.  18  Ohio State and Michigan  Feb.  11  Wheaton Invitational at  >  
Jan.  11  King's College  State at Columbus  Wheaton College  
Jan.  14  at DePaul  Feb.  25  Illinois and Wisconsin  Feb.  14  Western Michigan  
Jan.  21  at Detroit  Mar.  4  Buffalo and Case Tech  Feb.  17  at Cincinnati U.  
Jan.  28  Illinois at Chicago Stadium  Mar. 11  Indiana Tech  Feb.  21  Purdue  
Jan.  30  Butler at Indianapolis  Mar. 30-Apr. 1  NCAA Champion- Feb.  25  Marquette  
Feb.  1  Michigan Slate  ships at San Fernando  Mar.  3  Wheaton  
Feb.  4  Georgia Tech at Atlanta  State College  Mar. 10  Four-I Tourn. at Cleveland  
Feb.  6  Hawaii  Mar. 11  Four-I Tourn. at Cleveland  
Feb.  8  DePauI  INDOOR TRACK  
Feb. Feb.  11 13  Houston (Homecoming)! Butler  Jan. 28 Feb. 4  Miami of Ohio Indiana & Purdue at Laf.  SWIMMING  
Feb.  18  Bradley at Chicago  Feb.  11  Mich. State Relays at MSU  Dec.  2  ND Invitational Relays  
Feb.  20  Western Michigan  Feb.  18  U. of Michigan  Dec.  9  at U. of Buffalo  
Feb.  23  NYU at Madison Sq. Gard.  Feb.  25  Central Collegiate Conf.  Dec.  10  at St. Bonoventure (N.Y.)  
Feb.  25  Duke at Charlotte  Mar.  4  ICAAAA at New York  Jan.  14  at Ball State U.  
Mar.  4  Creighton  Mar.  10  NCAA at Detroit  Jan.  28  at Ohio U.  
Mar. 11  NCAA at Detroit  Feb.  4  U. of Missouri  
FENCING  Mar. 18  at U. of Pittsburgh  Feb.  10  Wayne State and Bowling  
Dec. 10  U. of III., Chicago Circle  Green  
Jan.  6  West. Reserve at Cleveland  WRESTLING  Feb.  71  Western Ontario  
Jan.  7  Cleveland State and  Dec.  3  Indiana State Invitational  Feb.  17  Kent State  
Oberlin at Cleveland  at Terre Haute  Feb.  18  Purdue  
Feb.  4  fnd. and Iowa at BImgton.  Dec.  6  ai Valparaiso  Feb.  24  at Northwestern  
Feb.  10  Air Force at East Lansing  Dec.  13  U. of Illinois at Chicago  Feb.  28  at Central Michigan  
Feb.  11  Detroit, Chicago, Wayne State at Detroit  Feb. Feb.  4 10  Wabash College Wheaton Invitational  Mar. 17-18  at Motor City Invila­tionai (Detroit)  J  

ALUMNUS NOVEMBER \9U DECEMBER 
BASKETBALL 

Pretude to Big Top Tip-off 
Pictured with Coach Johnny Dee are three starting sophomores for tliis year's Fighting Irish basketball team. Though unknown and yet unproven, Dwight Murphy,'Bobby Amzen and Bob AVhitmore are a pai't of tlie effort to rewtalize ND basketball fortunes and to build a championship club in anticipation of the 1968-69 debut in tlie new Athletic and Convocation Center. At press time, tlie Irish already had tucked two games under tlieir belts, beating Lewis College 100-77 and losing to Toledo 98-80. (See page 56 for tlie entire schedule.) Prior to die opening game. Coach Dee had this to say about tlie current season. 
WHAT IS YOUR OUTLOOK FOR THE 1966-'67 SEASON? 
I'm radier optimistic about tlie forth­coming season. AVe'lI be working wth a group of youngsters whom we'll be haxang around for several years. Right now if appears that we'll be starting one senior. Captain Jim Monahan at fonvard; one junior, George Restovich at guard and prob­ably three sophomores in Bob AVhit­more at center. Bob Amzen' at for­ward and Dwight Murphy at guard. Senior Tom Caldwell, our regular center at tiie close of last year's sea­.son, will be our back-up man. Brian Keller, a.junior, will be. our tliird.for­
ward. The first ten are tlien rounded out with juniors Jim McKirchey, John Tracy and Bob Kocmalski. Right now. it looks as though we'll have two seniors in tiiat first ten. 

WHAT  ARE  THE  BACK­ 
GROUNDS  OF  THESE  THREE  
SOPHOMORES?  

Bob • AVhitmore is 6-7, 187, a rather lightweight ballplayer for his size. He attended DeMatha High School in Washington, DC where he was the first-string center for the countr)''s number-one high school team his .senior, year. This was quite an ac­
complishment because Lew Alcindor —the boy who now is getting all tlie rave notices at UCLA—was the num­ber-one high school boy from the number-two high school ball club in America. The reason for this was that DeMatha High Scliool beat Alcindor's Power Memorial High School. On tliat occasion Bob AVliit­morc did an excellent defensive job on Alcindor, holding him to 16 points where he had been avei-aging 34. Outside of Alcindor, Bob was one of tlie most highly sought after boys in the countr)'. Another sophomore is Bob Arnzen who comes from St. Xa­vier High School in Cincinnati. He's jiist a shade under 6-6 and weighs about 200. \Ve are e.xpecting a lot from Bob. He has agility, die shots, tlie moves and a lot of detennination when properly directed. In liis senior year, he was voted the number-one player in die State of Ohio. Our third sophomore is Dwight Muipliy, a very thin boy at 6-3 who comes to us from a family of 13 children out of Kansas City, Kansas. Dwight, an ex­cellent shooter, played high school center and forward. AVe're now ask­ing him to convert to guard which is 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 19(5« DECEMBER 

a rather difficult switch. However, he has done an excellent job to date. He still has a lot of work to do in the area of ball handling. But with George Rcstovich along with him to do the quarterbacking Dwight will do a fine job. The big thing about all three of tliese boys—and we recruited tliem on this basis—^is that they are better than average defensive ball­players. 
HOW GOOD DO YOU FEEL YOUR CHANCES ARE FOR A WINNING SEASON AFTER LAST YEAR'S RECORD? 
AVhen you're coming off a 5-21 sea­son, the thing you've got to determine is just how bad you actually were. In many of the games we didn't even come close. And yet, without too much stretch of the imagination, we could have won seven of our last eight ball games. However, we didn't. As a matter of fact, we lost our last six in a row. Yet, we made fantastic improvement when you compare the scores between our first and second games with Creighton (72-59 and 72-68) and DePaul (97-71 and 79-71); when you take a great team like Bradley into overtime in Chicago Stadium and you stay within four points of the seventh-ranked team of St John's down to the last four minutes. AVith this in mind we have reason to believe we're not too far away from being a .500 ball club. Witli this group of sophomores help­ing us this year I think we can be representative if not actually return to respectability. From there, I think we can talk about credibility. 
WILL DEFENSE BE YOUR STRONG SUIT? I diink it is the one area in which we have to be strong simply because we're woefully weak in the vital area of ball handling. Unfortunately, 13 out of the 16 boys I now have on the varsity played center in high school. 
CAPTAIN JIM MONAHAN 
Only starting senior 

Next year we hope to have this cor­rected with the appearance of Mike O'Connell, a freshman this year from Cincinnati. 
HOW COMPETITIVE DO YOU THINK THE TEAM WILL BE RE­CARDING HEIGHT AND SPEED? 
We have average speed on our team but out height is a little below aver­age. With the starting five as I see it now, we'll have a 6-7 center, 6-5 and 6-4 for\vards and 6-2 and 6-1 guards. However, I think what we're lacking in size we'll make up for in our jumping abilit)'. Every one of our starters is a good jumper, having good spring. 
WHICH BOYS WILL PROVIDE YOU THE SCORING PUNCH? 
I look for a prett>' well-balanced at­tack. I think Monahan is capable of giving us a real scoring thrust as he proved last year with 32 points against Boston College and fine per­formances on several other occasions. Bob AVhitmore who came to us as an outstanding defensive high school pivot man has shown better offensive potential than we had anticipated. Bob Amzen who came from a high school that played a slow type, shuffle game and who personally doesn't have a high-scoring backgi-ound, can score better than we thought. Dwight Mur­phy has an e.xcellent shot out around tlie top of the circle. And Restovich is developing fast. But in tlie case of all five boys, hone of them were out­standing high school scorers with the exception of Murphy. 
HOW DOES THE SCHEDULE LOOK THIS YEAR? 
I think this year's schedule is a little tougher than. usual. I've always thought Notre Dame has played the best schedule in the country. We're tlie only team who plays the country's first, second and third teams by pre-, season polls, i.e., Kentucky, UCLA and Duke. Other teams on our 
GEORGE RESTOVICH Co-quarterback 

schedule include Detroit for t\yo games, Evansville which is always a tough ball club, Toledo University, St. John's of New York, Indiana, De-Paul twice, Illinois in Chicago Sta­dium, Butler for two games, Michigan State who I think wU win the Big Ten Conference, Georgia Tech a very strong team this year, Houston who is picked to finish sixth or seventh, Bradley who is always strong in the Missouri Valley Conference, Western Michigan who people say %vill have their strongest team in history. New York University who is very much improved, and Creighton one of the country's major independents. All told, we are playing seven of the top 20 teams of the country according to pre-season polls. Of the ten boys picked for AU-Americans in these same polls, we are participating against six of them. 
I firmly believe that the trip to UCLA, the Rainbow Classic (against three teams) in Honolulu at Christ­mas and then to Kentucky is the fin­est basketball junket ever taken by a collegiate team. It is a five-game trip over a nine-day period before more than 60,000 people. I just hope we will have started to round into shape so we do an adequate job. We do not have the most attractive home sched­ule in the world. I believe, however, that when we get into our new build­ing that it is going to be mandatory that we play 13 of the finest teams in the countr)'. I'm now working in that direction. We have Southern Meth­odist University coming on our sched­ule along with the University of Mis­souri, Utah State and St. Louis. Like­wise, there is the possibility of Mar­quette and 'West Virginia being added. We will open our 1968-69 season in the fieldhouse on December 7 against UCLA. Otiiers to follow will be Missouri, Wisconsin, Indiana, DePaul, Detroit, St. John's and pos­sibly North Carolina. 
WHO ARE THIS YEAR'S FRESH­MAN BASKETBALL PLAYERS? 
One of our new boys is John Gal­lagher, 6-5, 200, a forward from Bish­op Malloy High School on Long Island. The fact of the matter is, at oiur last intersquad game John was high scorer for the Blues. We have another boy, Michael O'Connell, 6-1, 175, guard from Cincinnati who is really a guard's guard.. Our third freshman is from Walt Wittman High School in Washington, DC, Bobby Freeman, a 6-3 for\vard. There are also a couple of boys on the freshman football team in whom we're highly interested but who are here on foot­ball scholarships. H 
ALUMMUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 
NOTTtC OAMC / 
PHOTOANY 

In late September while Notre Dame students were returning to campus, the University's Glee Club was streaking across the countrj' aboard a Holl)-\vood-bound jetliner to keep a date with Mr. Andy Williams. Its commitment with NBC's congenial Sunday-evening host was to make an appearance on his tapped, hour-Jong show scheduled for November 6 and \v'hich also featured Jonathan \Vinters, Polly Bergin and Jimmy Dean. 
The National Broadcasting Company made the in­vitation to the Glee Club in July through its South Bend affiliate, 'WNDU, the University's television sta­tion. Glee Club Director Daniel H. Pedtke accepted and 
Jt was off to Hollywood in late September for Notre Dame's Glee Club, a five-day trip that took them to NBC's recording studios and an hour-long show with singing star Andy Williams (above). Lead by Dean Pedtke (lower left), the University's 38-man singing contingent also performed for a Hollywood benefit show and before several thousand visitors at Disneyland. 
•: ^-r.:::^. z:^-:;:^^rrm!.^V}> 

First for both Andy and the Glee Ciub 
shortly thereafter sounded the call that brought an early return to campus for the 38 singers who made the five-day trip. 
The Notre Dame singers appeared on the show for about 10 minutes to sing a medley of three songs — "This Is My Coimtry," "AVhen Johnny Comes March­ing Home" and the Notre Dame "Victory March" — and later to combine with the well-known TV star in a rendition of "The Village of St. Bemadctte." 
For Andy ^Villiams and company this was the first appearance of a university glee club on the show. This could easily become a tradition, however, for following the telecast the network requested a similar appearance on the show next year. 
Following three days of TV rehearsals and taping, the group left for a rela.xing trip to Disneyland where, as might be expected, they were asked to perform again. Amid one of the Park's many beautiful pavil­]ions and before more than 2,000 surprised but delighted guests, the Glee Club complied by featuring a half hour's worth of many of their traditional favorites. 
For the Glee Ciub, the nationwide television ap­pearance has become the highlight of the year. It also marked a first in the history of the organization for prior to then it had never flown together as a group. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1966 DECEMBER 
NOTRE DAME 
glfll 

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS] 
OFFtCERS 

W. LANCASTER SMITH '50 HONORARY PRESIDENT THOMAS P. CARNEY '37 PRESIDENT BERTRAND D. COUGHLIN, M.D. '26 VICE-PRESIDENT WILLIAM V. CUDDY '52 VICE-PRESIDENT HERBERT M. SAMPSON '50 VICE-PRESIDENT JAMES E. ARMSTRONG '25 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 
JAMES D. COONEY '59 ASSISTANT ALUMNI SECRETARY 
DIRECTORS TO 1967 THOMAS W. CARROLL '51 HOMAS P. CARNEY '37 17 CARLTON RD. CONTINUING EDUCATION HUTCHINSON, KAN. 67501 ACADEMIC AFFAIRS 
AMBROSE F. DUDLEY, JR. '43 
ADMISSIONS 
519 SUSSEX RD. 
1050 N. GREEN BAY RD. 
WYNNEWOOD, PA. 19096 
LAKE FOREST, ILL. 60045 
CHARLES J. PATTERSON '47
ERTRAND D. COUGHLIN, M.D. '26 STUDENT AFFAIRS 
34 LITTLE TREE LANE BUDGET 
FRAMINGHAM, MASS. 01701 16 THORNDELL DR. ST. LOUIS, MO. 63117 
DIRECTORS TO 1969 
MLLIAM V. CUDDY '52 
WILLIAM D. KAVANAUGH '27 
PUB. REL. AND DEVELOPMENT 
3445 ORDWAY ST., N.W. 
PLACEMENT 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20016 
155 RALPH AVE. WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. 10606 WILLIAM F. KERWIN, JR. '40 ERBERT M. SAMPSON '50 1108 EMILIE ST. ATHLETIC GREEN BAY, WIS. 54301 RELIGION AND CITIZENSHIP 
RICHARD A. ROSENTHAL '5A 735 NORTH 57 AVE. 
15670 HEARTHSTONE DR. OMAHA, NEB. 68132 
MISHAWAKA, IND. A65A4 LEO V. TURGEON, M.D. '42 
DIRECTORS TO 1968 

SUITE 107 
3SEPH H. CAREY '32 
CRENSHAW MEDICAL CENTER 
19965 BRIARCLIFF 
3731 STOCKER ST. 
DETROIT, MICH. 48221 
LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90008 
MAGAZINE STAFF 

JAMES E. ARMSTRONG '25 EDITOR JOHN P. THURIN '59 MANAGING EDITOR DUTE WINSKUNAS EDITORIAL ASSISTANT BRUCE HARLAN '49 PHOTOGRAPHER EDWARD E. HERRMANN ART CONSULTANT JAMES E. MURPHY -47 
R. PATRICK STRICKLER '65 PUBLIC INFORMATION 
National Football Championshi ig24 \r-^Vi'oV,'i.'^ 1929 
0<>000o00g0,j 
1930 1938 1943 1946 1947 1949 
1966 
mm 
IP-*'? 
m 

'. 3 
s i •a s ; rr 
^i;^^S ^1 






