The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

CCyHMENT 
"Autres temps, etc." 
This year the ALUMNUS changes its custom a bit. October's bright blue weather witnesses the lily-gild­ing first edition of the 1931-1932 volume. 
It comes late. We had planned it for October 1. 
You might just as well know now that for the next several months everything may suffer the same fate. 
Notre Dame, and Notre Dame men, have one thing uppermost in mind— the Memorial to Knute K. Rockne. 
Alumni are playing such an impor­tant part that the Alumni Office has naturally been dra^vn into the whirl­pool of activities surrounding the progress of the Memorial. Rightly so. 
We cannot, and will not of course, neglect fundamentals, nor should you. The ALUMNUS will appear monthly. We will accept your dues and Living Endowment checks. Class letters will go out. Clubs will meet. 
Our only note here is that the time and talents of the Alumni Office are limited (Hear, hear!). 
What you want, ask for. No one hopes more fervently than do we that all requests can be fulfilled, immedi­ately and adequately. 
Rock could never use the man who used alibis. Certainly the Rockne Memorial ought not to be so em­ployed. 
So we won't say "No" to anything, but we may have to say "Just a minute please." 
There are so many good men and true of our own N.D. persuasion simi­liarly engaged in their communities with the promotion of this project that understanding will be universal. 
It's a new ALUMNUS year, May it be a happy one. 

INTMIX ISSUE 
The Rockne Memorial Field House (A Drawing) _____Fr(mtisjM"ece The Rockne MemoriaL 3 Religious Page, by Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '13-6 Letter from President Hayes_ 7 Proposed Constitutional Revisions-9 Around the Campus, by John Kiener, '32_ 12 "The Spirit of Notre Dame" 13 Editorial 15 Athletics, by Joseph Petritz, '32_ 17 Local Alumni Clubs 19 The Alumni 22 
The mafnizinc is published monthly durinf; the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of _ the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is S2.00 a year; the price of sin;de copies is 23 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUSINUS. Entered as second-class matter January I. 1923. at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the .Act of March 3, 1ST9. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre D.'une, Indiana. 
JVIE.MBER OP THE AaiEMCAN ALU-IIN I COU^•CII. 
JIEMBEB OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDER.\TION 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JASIES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 

THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI  BOARD  
REV. JOHN  A. MACNASIAEA,  '97  Honorary President  
FRANCIS H .  HAYES,  '14  President  
CLARENCE  MANION,  '22  - Vice-President  
WALTER DUNCAN, '12  ­ Treasurer  
JAMES  E .  ARJISTRONG, '25  ­ Secretary  
M. HARRY MILLER, '10  ­ Director  
T. PAUL  MCGANNON, '07  ­ -  Director  
JOHN  F .  O'CONN-ELL,  '13  Director  
ROBERT E .  LYNCH,  '03  - Director  
FRANK  E .  HERING,  '98  • (ex officio) Director  

Send in news. Send in clippings of our almuni who are getting places, and believe me they are! Send in ideas for or against the magazine. It is your publication—of, by and for the alumni of Notre Dame. 
This magazine purports to be the mirror of Notre Dame and her alum­ni. The University has doubled its physical plant and the Association has doubled its personnel since the ALUMNUS first went to press. 
You might read very carefully the letter of President Hayes in this is­sue, in conjunction with the foregoing paragraph. 
It involves a suggestion we hope may never be carried out, but it is a suggestion based on the cold facts from Walter Duncan's office. 
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY NOTKE. O^ML INDIANA 


THE JRQCBCME MEMORIAL !\ Wmmi
Riv.cwiiusLaDOMnacK.mtsiDiifr J., 

•••: •"'•••---gyt^^ifesg" 
A front view of the projioacd Memorial io Ktinlo Kenneth RorUnct *U, a« Biitjim'ttcrf bu Afattricc Carroll, '10, of Kanaaa City, and Cheater Dean. 
TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. X. OCTOBER, 1931 No. 1 
Million Dollar Memorial to Roclcne Progresses 
Alumni Among Leaders in National Project to Commemorate the Late Director, of Athletics. Response Is Very Encouraging 
Permanent programs and estab­lished policies at Notre Dame are pursuing the even, if rapid, tenor of their ways. 
Meantime, all agencies of the Uni­versity have been placed at the dis­posal of the Eockne Memorial Associ­ation for the immediate realization of the great objective for which that or­ganization was formed. 
Announcement was made at Com­mencement by the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, of the Association and its purpose. Immediately upon the close of school, plans were studied and action decided upon. 
The Memorial is national. Its op­portunities for remembering Rock are open alike to Notre Dame men and that great host of friends he made beyond the campus. 
To facilitate progress, Notre Dame immediately offered a site for the Memorial building and in addition has underwritten the rather consider­able expense of providing a national organization which will give to Rockne's friends everywhere an equal opportunity to participate in this Me­morial. 
The Alumni Association, already or­ganized nationally, and certainly as strong a group of Rockne admirers as his 'vivid career could gather, has been looked to as a most convenient source of aid. 
The Eockne Memorial Association, Inc., is headed by the following of­ficers: Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, honorary president; A. R. Ersldne, president and general chair­man; George F. Getz, chairman of special gifts; Frank E. Hering, chair­man of publicity; Francis H. Hayes, president of the Alumni Association, chairman of organization; J. Arthur Haley, treasurer and chairman of lists; Rev. M. A. Mulcaire, C.S.C, chairman of speakers; Paul G. Hoff­man, chairman of ways and means; James E. Armstrong, secretary. 
An executive committee supple­ments the officers, as follows: George 
M. Anson, Edward J. Doyle, Robert 
C. Graham, John D. Hertz, Edward N. Hurley, Byron V. Kanaley, C. Roy McCanna, John H. Neeson, Thomas F. O'Neil, James J. Phelan and Will Rogers. 
National sponsors of the Memorial who have expressed their apprecia­tion of the Memorial and the man to whom it is to be erected, are Alfred 
This truly memorial foyer is another of the 
decorative concepts of CarroU and Dean, 
E. Smith, Richard B. Byrd and Owen 
D. Young. In the divisional organization that has been utilized to divide work and responsibility, alumni are in even greater proportion. Timothy P. Galvin, '16, is in charge of the Indiana division; James H. Brennan, '20, president of the N. D. Club of Chicago, is division chair­man for Illinois, Iowa, Wisconsin and Minnesota; Dan R. E. Shouvlin, '14, has Ohio; Charles E. "Gus" Dorais, '14, is in charge in Michigan; John H. Neeson, '03, will handle Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware and the District of Columbia; Hugh O'Donnell, '94, and Joe Byrne Jr., '15, Newark, are chairmen of the New York and New Jersey divisions; Joseph A. Gartland Jr., '27, is chairman of New Eng­land's group; Charles M. Bryan, '97, has Virginia, West Virginia, North 
Carolina, Kentucky and Tennessee; Charles Bachman, '15, ^^^ll organize Florida, Georgia, Alabama and Mis­sissippi; Dr. D. M. Nigro, '14, is in charge of the Missouri, Arkansas, Oklahoma and Kansas division; James 
D. Barry, '97, is handling organiza­tion in Colorado, Utah, New Mexico and Arizona; Edward P. "Slip" Madi­gan, '20, is working in Northern Cal­ifornia and Henry I. Dockweiler, '12, in Southern California, while James 
M. Phelan has Washington and Ore­gon to complete the Pacific divisions. 
The objective is a short working period for the organization, during which the maximum results will be obtained through thorough prepara­tion, beginning November o and last­ing about one month. 
Several special features have been arranged to promote this aim. 
Dinner meetings to mark the for­mal opening of the intensive cam­paign period will be held by workers throughout the country on Thursday evening, November 5. There is a possibility of arranging a national radio hook up so that all Notre Dame Alumni may have an opportunity to listen in and learn what is going on. 
"Rockne Day" will be observed in honor of Knute K. Rockne through­out the country on Saturday, Novem­ber 14, according to plans now being made by the National Coaches Asso­ciation in cooperation with the Rockne Memorial Association. 
John T. (Chick) Meehan, president of the Coaches Association and foot­ball coach at New York University, is taking active charge of the par­ticipation of the Coaches Association in observing "Eockne Day." The cele­bration will be held in connection with the nation-wide campaign. 
A. R. Erskine, general chairman of the national executive committee di­recting the fund-raising campaign, has received assurance from Meehan that every member of the Coaches Association will be urged to co­operate in the national plan of hon­oring Rockne during the height of the football season. 
The coaches have endorsed sugges­tions that there be a Rockne Memo­
October, 1931

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
rial service between the halves at 
every football game on November 14, 
and that spectators at all games on 
that day be given opportunity to con­
tribute to the Rockne Memorial Fund. 
The plan of giving spectators at 

games opportunity to make gifts to 
the fund was originated at the South-
em Califomia-St. Mary's game in 
Los Angeles, Saturday, September 26. 
"When plans for the Rockne Memo­

rial campaign were being formulated," Chairman Erskine said recently in com­menting upon the proposal to obsen'e 'Rockne Day,' "various suggestions were made to the effect that colleges might wish to assist in the fund­raising activities by charging a larger sum than usual for admission tickets and contributing the difference. Our executive committee vetoed these suggestions on the grounds that such methods of fund raising might be construed as coercive. It was felt that contributions to the Rockne Jle­morial Field House Fund should be made entirely on a free-will basis. For this reason, we heartily endorse the splendid efforts that have been made by authorities at the Southern Califomia-St. Mary's game and which will be adopted at the games to be played on 'Rockne Day.' 
"It seems to me to be particularly fitting that 'Rockne Day' will be ob­served at the intensive period during the current football season, when the memory of that great man is more vivid than ever in the minds of all lovers of clean sportsmanship." 
The Field House itself is pictured in a set of designs submitted by Maurice Carroll, '19, and Chester Dean, Kansas City. Several views by the architects are reproduced in this issue. As announced at Commence­emnt, Mr. Carroll has offered to do the architectural work considerably below the usual cost. 
The Rockne Memorial Field House as at present proposed will be built on the old Cartier athletic field where Rockne molded some of the greatest football teams of the day. It will oc­cupy a plot on a four foot terrace close to the Notre Dame Stadium. 
Rugged in outline and strong in mass, the Rockne Field House of Messrs. Carrol and Dean has been designed in a modification of the Eng­lish Gothic. Exterior walls of Indi­ana limestone laid up in random ash­lar will be broken by three massive stone arches of the entrance. In length 350 feet and 275 feet wide, the building will rise fifty-six feet above its site. 
On the first floor of the two-story structure will be a Memorial Foyer and Trophy Hall; the Monogram Club 
courts; and rooms for wrestling, box­
ing and other forms of indoor sports. 
The second floor will include four standard size basket-ball courts, marked to allow eight practice courts; an apparatus gymnasium; a corrective exercise gymnasium; and medical examination rooms. 
The west wing of the building will contain a smmming pool, 35 feet by 75 feet, designed for intercollegiate races. 
In line with Rockne's known de­sires, the Field House is planned to provide athletic and recreational facil­ities for the undergraduate body as a whole rather than members of var­sity teams, officers of the Rockne Me­morial Association have pointed out. In the Field House, every member of the student body will have the oppor­tunity to enjoy recreation and exer­cise in basketball, handball, squash, gj'mnasium apparatus work, wrest­ling, boxing swimming and other forms of sport. In effect, the Rockne Field House is designed as an all-sports building for the specific bene­fit of every student. 
A fund of §650,000 is required for construction, and $350,000 will be sought for endowment of the Field House. 
Professor Edits Magazine 
Notre Dame alumni vrith literary interests will learn with pleasure of the recent progress made by the well known magazine "The Midland," the 
editor of which is Professor John T. Frederick of the Department of Eng­lish. Since his coming to Notre Dame a year ago from Iowa State Univer­sity, Professor Frederick has moved '"riie Midland" publication office to Chicago, and has changed it from a bi-monthly to a monthly magazine, at the same time increasing its size and broadening its field. The shqrt stories of "The Midland" have become nationally famous, and have lately been accorded a very high place by the critics. In O'Brien's "Best Short Stories" for the current year one of the features is a "Midland" story by Reverend Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., who is a regular contributor to the maga­zine. 


Medalist Visits N. D. 

Jack J. Spalding, Atlanta, Ga., attorney and ^rinner of the Laetare medal in 1928, was a visitor on the Notre Dame campus September 8 for the first time since he won the high Catholic honor. 
Mr. Spalding spent several hours visiting with the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame, and the Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C, president emeritus. Mr. Spald­ing is widely known throughout the south for his fine work in Catholic charities. He was decorated Knight of St. Gregory by Pope Benedict in 1927 and served as president of the Atlanta Bar association in 1929. 
Room -which will contain mementoes of the Monogram Club and of Rockne; ^.^^a^SSSiJ^l offices of the Athletic Association; twenty-two handball and squash This is the Main Entrance of the Proposed Memorial, as designed bjf Architects Carroll and Dean, 
October, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
^jMiiiimiiiimiitiiiiiinmiiiiiitumimimiiiii IIIIIIIKIilllllilltlll) •iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiitiiitiiitiiiMiitiiii .B 


Roclcne Memorial Fund 
PERSONNEL 
(To Date) 
OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS Rev. Charles L. O'Donneil, C.S.C., *06. Notre Dame. Ind., 
Honorary Chairtnan 
A. R. Erskine, LUD. '24. South Bend. Ind.. 
President and General Chairman 
GeorKo F. Getz. Chicago, HI., 
Chairman Special Gifts 
Frank E. Herinjr. '98, South Bend. Ind., 
Chairman Publicity 
Francis H. Hayes, '14, Chicago, HI. 
Chairman Organization 
J. Arthur Haley. '26, Notre Dame, Ind., 
Treasurer and Chairtnan Lists 
Rev. Michael A. Mulcaire, "l", Notre Dame, Ind., 
Chairman Speakers 
Paul G. HofTmnn, South Bend. Ind., 
Chairman Ways and Means 
James E. Armstrong. "25. Notre Dame, Ind., 
Secretary 
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE George M. Anson. '95. Merrill. "Wisconsin Edward J. Doyle, ChicaRo, Illinois George F. Getr, Chicago. Illinois Robert C. Graham, Detroit, Michigan John D. Hertz, Chicago. Illinois Edward N. Hurley, LL.D. 'IS. Chicago. Illinois Byron V. Kanaley, '04. Chicago. Illinois 
C. Roy McCanna, Burlington. Wisconsin John H. Neeson. '03. Philadelphia. Pennsylvania Thomas F. O'Neil. '13, Akron, Ohio James J. Phclan, Boston, Massachusetts Will Rogers, Los Angeles, California 
WAYS AND MEANS COSIMITTEE 
Paul G. HofTman. South Bend, Indiana. Chairman Jesse Harper, Notre Dame. Indiana Warren Brown, Chicago, Illinois 
ORGANIZATION COMMITTEE Francis H. Hayes, '14, Chicago, Illinois, Chairman Angus MacDonald, '00, New York. New York John P. Murphy, '12, Qcveland. Ohio Dr. Joseph M. Toner, '00, San Francisco, California Pat Malloy, '07, Tulsa. Oklahoma Fred L. Steers, '11, Chicago, Illinois 
SPECIAL GIFTS COMMITTEE George F. Getz, Chicago, Illinois, Chairman Re\'. Charles L. O'Donneil, C.S.C.. '06, Notre Dame. Indiana Vincent Bendix. South Bend. Indiana George M. Anson, '95, Merrill, Wisconsin John F. Gushing, '06. Chicago, Illinois Edward J, Doyle, Chicago, Illinois Robert C. Graham. Detroit. Michigan John D. Hertz, Chicago. Illinois Edward N. Hurley, Chicago, Illinois Byron V. Kanaley, '04, Chicago. Illinois 
G. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wisconsin George L. O'Brien. '90, South Bend, Indiana Thomas F. O'Neil, '13, Akron. Ohio Judge Kickham Scanlon, *8S. Chicago, Illinois 
SPEAKERS' COMMITTEE Rev. Michael Mulcaire, '17, Notre Dame, Indiana. Chairman 
LISTS COMMITTEE 
J. Arthur Haley, '26, Notre Dame, Indiana, Chairman 
PUBLICITY COMMITTEE 
Frank E. Hering. '98, South Bend. Indiana. Chairman Warren Brown, Chicago, Illinois. Secretary Carl Lacmmle. Jr.. Universal City, California Walter S. Paley. New York, New York Grantland Rice, New York, New York Joseph M. Stephenson. '10. South Bend. Indiana Christy Walsh. New York, New York Frederic William Wile, '91, AVashington, D. C. 
DIVISION AND DISTRICT CHAIRMEN 
DIVISION I Timothy P. Gavin, '16, Hammond, Indiana, Chairman DISTRICT GIIAIIUIEX: George L. O'Brien. '90. South Bend, Indiana 
C. W. Bader, '19. Gary, Indiana John W. Eggeman. '00, Fort Wayne. Indiana Charles L. Vaughn. '14. Lafayette, Indiana 
W. F. Fox, Jr., '20, Indianapolis, Indiana 

DIVISION II James Brennan. '20, Chicago, Illinois, Chairman DiSTItlCl' ClIAItUIEX: Arthur J. Hughes. '15, Chicago, Illinois Walter Duncan, *12. LaSalle, Illinois Freeman C. Fitzgerald, *16, Milwaukee. Wisconsin Robert E. Lynch. '03, Green Bay, Wisconsin Robert Roach. '15, Muscatine, Iowa Earl F. Walsh, '22, Des Moines. Iowa Vincent F. Harrington. '25, Sioux City, Iowa Daniel M. Coughlln, '22, Waseca, Minnesota Mark E. Nolan, '24, Gilbert. Minnesota 
DIVISION III 
Daniel R. Shouvlln. '14. Springfield, Ohio, Chairman DISTRICT CIIAIRMEX: Ray Eichenlaub, *15, Columbus, Ohio 
DIVISION IV Charles Dorals, *14, Detroit, Michigan, Chairman DISTRICT CHAIRMEN: Vincent Ryan. Flint, Michigan Dr. John T. Bums, '13, Kalamazoo, Michigan Joseph Sanford, '21, Muskegon, Michigan 
DIVISION V 
John H. Neeson. '03. Philadelphia. Pennsylvania. Chairman 
DISTRICT CiiAiRiiEX: Clarence Overend, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Dr. Jas. A. Flynn, '93. Washington. D. C. Dr. A. W. O'JIalley. LLJ). '95, Wilkes-Barre. Pa. Louis Young. Philadelphia. Pennsylvania 
DIVISION VI 
Hugh A. O'Donneil, '94, New York. New York. Chairman 
DISTRICT CIIAIRJIEX: Angus MacDonald, '00. New York, New York John W. Forbing, *00, Rennsalaer, New York Joseph R. Brandy. '21. Ogdensburg, New York Allen H. ]Mahar, '28, Binghamton, New York Jacob E. Eckel, '16, Syracuse. New York Joseph P. Flynn, '16. Rochester, New York Jay L. Lee, '12, Buffalo, New York 
Joe Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, New Jersey, Co-Chairman 
DIVISION VII 
Joseph A. Gartland. Jr., *27, Dorchester. Mass.. Chairman 
DISTRICT CiiAiRiiEx: John U. Riley, '17. Boston. Massachusetts Edward J. McGaulty, Worcester. Massachusetts Hon. William J. Granfield. '13, Springfidd. Massachusetts Harry W. O'Boyle, '27, Manchester. Massachusetts Claude E. Johnson, '26, Essex Junction. Vermont John R. Jolly, '18. Providence. Rhode Island Oscar D. Lavcry. '25. Bridgeport, Connecticut Adam Walsh, '25. New Haven, Connecticut 
DIVISION vn i Chas. Bryan. '97, Memphis. Tennessee, Chairman 
DIVISION IX Charles W. Bachman, '15, Gainsville, Florida, Chairman. 
DIVISION X Jack O'Brien, San Antonio, Texas. Chairman 
DIVISION XI Dr. D. M. Nigro, *14. Kansas City. Missouri. Chairman DISTRICT CHAIRMEX: 
Dr. Joseph D. Costcllo. '12, St. Louis. Missouri Norbert F. Skelley. '25. Salina. Kansas Twomey At, Clifford, '14. Camden, Arkansas 
DIVISION XII 
DIVISION xn i Torgus Oaas, '14. Butte, Wyoming, Chairman 
DIVISION XIV James D. Barry, '97, Tucson. Arizona. Chairman 
DIVISION XV 
DISTRICT CHAIRMEX: Edward P. Madlgan. '20. Oakland. California Henry I. Dockweiler. '12, Los Angeles, California 
DIVISION XVI James M. Phelan. *17, Seattle. Washington, Chairman 
• IIIIIIIMIMMMIIIIttllllllMlltllltlllMIMHIIIIlfllltHINimiHUIMMtnlMtllMIIMIHIMg 
fi|iitiiiiiiitnimmniii«iiin 
THE NOTBE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1931 



RELIGIOUS PAGE » » » » 

At the foot of this page you will find the answers of the alumni to one of the questions asked in the Eeligious Survey of the alumni. You ^\ill ob­serve that sixty percent of the 630 who returned questionnaires had ac­tive suggestions, some of them more than one, regarding what the Uni­versity can do in the way of spiritual education of the alumni. The vote suggests that something be done im­mediately to satisfy this demand, and the editor's response to it is the intro­duction of a Eeligious Page as a reg­ular feature of the ALUMNUS. 
The questionnaire has furnished abundant material for this page, but the editor solicits an expression of your further wishes in this matter. A whole issue of the ALUMNUS could be devoted to answering ques­tions propounded by the graduates through the medium of the Survey; but there may be topics more timely than some of those already proposed, and the editor will be glad to have your suggestions on them. 
Comment upon the proposals offered through the medium of the question­naire, as set forth on this page, ^^'ill be welcomes by some. 
1.
 Last year the University admin­istration offered to mail the daily Religious Bulletin, without charge, to all alumni who ask for it. Some two hundred availed themselves of this offer, which is repeated this year. 

2.
 Six of the nine Eeligious Sur­veys of the students have been mailed to the alumni, and it is the intention of the University to continue to send them these annual reports. They will be noticed in the ALUMNUS as they appear, and any alumnus who fails to receive his copy may inform this office and have another sent to him. 

3.
 It is quite likely that there will be further surveys of the alumni, since the response to the first one was so gratifjring. In fact, a supplemen­tary survey, to be reported with the one last spring, is now in the mail. 

4.
 The Prefect of Edigion will mail both pamphlets and lists of pamphlets to all graduates who ask for them. The daily Bulletin from time to time lists current pamphlets of exceptional merit or unusual im­portance. 

5.
 The daily Bulletin will "keep you posted" on religious acti\'ity at Notre Dame, and this page will attempt to do the same in a more con­densed way. 


John F..O'Hara, CS.C 
Prefect of Religion 

6. The proposal to encourage Com­ion breakfasts (especially if political munion breakfasts for local clubs has speeches are barred from these spir­
our hearty approval, and the editor itual gatherings). would be glad to hear from John Hur­
8. Many of the alumni, especially ley on the plan followed by the Notre those of recent years, send word to Dame Club of Toledo in organizing the University when prayers are such meetings. (ED. NOTE: See To­especially needed for some intention. 

ledo Club news.) 

These requests are announced in the 
Religious Bulletin.
7. The sectional retreats, inaugu­
rated by the Notre Dame Club of New 9. The fellow who wants a "pur­Jersey, and followed successfully by ple prayer book" will receive one if a few other local clubs, will probably he will send his name and address to follow the establishment of Commun­the Prefect of Eeligion. • 
Q.. "13 
What could Notre Dame do now to further your spiiltual life? 
Slail the daily Religious Bulletin. -49 Have a weekly bulletin. _ 4 A bulletin for alumni only _ 3 Send the Bulletin at intervals-_ 6 Send the Bulletin during May _ 1 Have a religious column in the ALUMNUS-_ 7 Publish sermons in the ALUJINUS _ 1 Have more surveys of the alumni _22 Send the Eeligious Survey every year. -15 Publish this Survey _ 1 Send pamphlets' . 5 Send lists of pamphlets. _ 2 Furnish suggestions on current reading. .22 Furnish answers to current problems. -12 Keep us posted on spiritual activity there. . 8 Devise a means of giving advice .16 Send out lectures _ 2 Broadcast lectures _ 3 Have more retreats (week-end, sectional, etc). _23 Organize Communion breakfasts for clubs . 2 Encourage reunions and alumni clubs _ 4 Establish closer contact 
.14 Pray for me_ 
.27 Eemember us in Masses 
. 3 It's up to me now 
_ 9 _ 5

Take me back 
_ 1

Let me alone -1Send me a good wifei. 
.66 

IGscellaneous 
Two hundred and fifty-one had no suggestions to offer, and forty-nine felt that Notre Dame is doing all she can for them. Among the miscellaneous suggestions were the following: Be gentle, kind, and tolerant; be impartial with the alumni; spread the practice of frequent Communion elsewhere; suggest special novenas and devotions; educate our'sons well; sponsor a wider distribution of Catholic thought on public questions; continue to send out good missionaries; establish an A-1 Catholic weekly; encourage frequent visits to school; ^ve the privilege of using books from the University library; have a spiritual society for alumni; "send me a purple prayer book." 
Q.. llllltllllMltllll IIIIIIIKIiltl Q 
October, 1931 THB.NOTKEDAME ALUMNUS 
p1llltlltlltlllllllllllllllllltlllllllllltlltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllM«llllllllllltlllllllt«l>llllllttlllll*llltlllllllttlltlltllltllllll'lltll*lllllll»lllltlll«lllllllltllllllllllllillllllllltMMMtMMIMIItllllMII»llllllltM»IIIM 



Open Letter From President Hayes 
25 N. Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois FELLOW ALUMNI: 
I wish to express my sincere appreciation for having been honored with the position of President of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. The work of your Association has grown in such tremendous propor­tions that your President could devote his entire time to your organiza­tion and still fall short of really fulfilling the obligations of his office. It is the more necessaiy, therefore, that we have the cooperation and support of all of our members. 
The only income of your Association is from the payment of dues, and out of the proceeds of these dues the Secretary and his office force are the only ones who receive any compensation. Like all associations of this character, our membere are more or less negligent in regard to sending checks in payment of their dues. 
In order that you may understand how important it is that you pay your dues, I just want to call the item of the ALUMNUS to your atten­tion. This is probably one of the finest Alumni publications in the countiy. I know exactly how each of you feels when you receive it in your mail—^you drop everything else and read it. The cost of this publication is about $5,500.00 per year. Naturally, if our finances are not kept up this will in necessity be the first expense which we will be forced to curtail. This, of course, is the last thing in the world that we want to do, and even though we are all experiencing difficult times in our personal finances, I feel sure that in some way Ave can afford $5.00 for our dues and keep our organization functioning during this period of depression. 
To date this year the payment of dues has been much slower than in preceding years. It has been suggested that we use the method of the very best clubs in the countiy which post the names of their mem­bers on a prominent bulletin board when they are delinquent in the pa3nnent of dues. In other words, that we devote a page or two of the ALUMNUS for the publication of the names of those members who have failed to pay their dues. This, of course, would be a very radical departure from Noti-e Dame customs and we have no intention of adopt­ing the same. I might call to the attention of each of you that you probably get more real satisfaction and pleasure out of your member­ship in the Alumni Association and your contact vnth. Noti-e Dame than any club or society in which you hold membership. 
I have taken the liberty of addressing you in this manner because of the fact that prior to my election to office I had absolutely no knowl­edge of the financial position of our association, and believing that this is probably the status of the large majority of our members, I thought it advisable to call some of these facts to your attention. Now if you are one of the ones who has not paid his dues for this year, kindly write out your check and forward the same today. 
Earnestly seeking your good will and cooperation for the continued publication of the ALUMNUS and the success of our Association, I am Veiy truly yours, Francis H. Hayes, '14, President. 
QlllllllllllIllttllllllllllllllllllDailllllllllllllllllllllllllltllliDlllllllllllllltllllt ••MIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIMIIIItllllllllDIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIItllllilllllltllllliltlltll 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1931 
l"J««llllllMltlimiliiitt;i' tllftllltllltltllM Ulllllllllltllllllllllll ••iliiiiiiiilltl •Q 


Alumni Notre Dame Shares With The World 
No. 1—In the Congregatio n of Holy Cross 
B 
•IWIIIMIIMIIItlKUIIIIIItlllMKIII 
..Q 
EEV. EUGENE BURKE, C.S.C. 
Editor of tlie "Ave Maria" 

Thirty-six thousand people are weekly the recipients of the accumu­lated genius of this member of the Class of 1906, who, as a student, in the campus publications and organiza­tions, gave evidence of these talents which time confirms. Father Gene Burke, as Editor of the Ave Maria, one of the oldest and most widely read and respected Catholic magazines, undertook an unenviable task. The saintly Father Hudson, confrere of the Catholic literary geniuses of half a century, relinquished a post last year after fifty-two years of ser\'ice, which demanded a man of talent, and a man of taste. Father Burke's se­lection was indeed an honor. His work during the year has proved it a selec­tion of wisdom as well. The Ave Maria flourishes. Founded by Father Sorin, dedicated, as were all his acts, to Our Lady, the Ave Maria is pub­lished at Notre Dame and is closely allied to, though completely separated from, Notre Dame. It is most fitting that an alumnus of Notre Dame should be carrying on this particular 
EEV. CHARUIS L. O'DONNELL, C.S.C. 
President of Notre Dame 

If Father Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '06, were not President of the University, he would still be so out­standing an alumnus that he must appear in recognitions such as this. Coming from Kokomo, Indiana, Hoo­sierdom need do no more to balance the scales of fortune that placed Notre Dame within its bounds. Academic brilliance was early evident, coupled with efiicient management, exemplified in the editorship of the first rf the long and honored series of "Domes," the University's year book. His talent in poetry made him Class Poet and the vicissitudes of sub­sequent priestly duties, including teaching, a chaplaincy in the World War \vith overseas duties, and the exacting work of the Provincial of the Congregation for the United States, have not dimmed his ability in the field of poetry. He has published several outstanding volumes of his poems, is a contributor to Catholic magazines as opportunity now per­mits, and was honored with the presi­dency of the Catholic Poetry Society 
when that group was organized last year. His three years as President of Notre Dame have brought him dis­tinction in the educational and busi­ness world that comes to few men. Alumni are too familiar with Father O'Donnell's interest in alumni affairs to repeat even their appreciation here. 
The Congregation of Holy Cross was founded in Le Mans, France. Its advent in America under Father Sorin was distinctly French. This Uni­versity of Notre Dame was decidedly French in its inspiration. That an Irish boy from West Division High School in Chicago could come here, study in these environs, graduate with the Class of '07 after a career brilliant with the Celtic talents of tongue and pen, follow the studies of the sem­inary and so impress his fellow mem­bers of the Congregation that within twenty years, while still a young man, they should elevate him to the Supe-
VERY EEV. JAMES W. DONAHUE, C.S.C. Superior General 
rior General's position in the Order, its highest rank, is eloquent tribute to his priestly attributes. That he has served this ofiice well, with its far posts in India, in France, in Canada and in the four comers of the United States is only an expected justification of their judgment. Nor have the world interests of the Father General been permitted to interfere with his interest in Notre Dame as his Alma Mater. His interest in the Associa­tion and his knowledge of its activities are exemplary. 
(It may be explanatory of a phase of Notre Dame's great debating history that the three men above were on the same debating team in 1905. ED.) (This is the first of a news series. Three alumni in another field will be selected for the November issue. ED.) 
October, 19S1 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 


Constitution Committee Submits New Set-Up 
The ALUMNUS reprints herewith a revised Consti­tution and a supplementary set of By-Laws, pursuant to a motion passed at the last Annual Meeting, as follows: "Resolved, that the newly elected president is authorized and directed, to appoint by July 11, 1931, a committee of three to draft such additions and amendments to the Constitution of the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame as will provide for the recommendations of the Board of Directors submitted at this Meeting. Such additions and amendments after receiving the approval of the Board of Directors of the Association, shall be pub­lished in the October and November, 1931, issues of the ALUMNUS. Ballots with return post-cards shall be mailed all members of the Association not later than December 1, 1931. The poll shall close February 15,1932, and if a two-thirds majority of the vote cast favors the additions and amendments, they shall be in force and effect immediately, and the officers of the Alumni Associa­tion shall see that their provisions are complied with." 
The primary changes are: 

1.
 Reducing the Constitution to fundamentals. 


2.
 Shifting the details of the Association to By-Laws so that the rapid changes that are now occurring can be facilitated to the best advantage of the Association. 

3.
 Combining the Secretary's and Treasurer's jobs to relieve the present situation in which a non-paid officer is asked to assume a very concrete annual task. (The new officer to be properly bonded and provision made for regu­lar accounting.) 

4.
 Di^^ding the Association into districts, under dis­trict representatives, to provide a more effective contact between the alumni and the Association. 


CONSTITUTION OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OF THE UNH'ERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

ARTICLE I. Name SECTION 1. The name of this organization shall be the Alumni Association of the University of N^otrc Dame. 
ARTICLE II. Objects 

SECTION 1. The object of this A&ociation shall be to foster a spirit of loyalty and fraternity amone the graduates and former students of Notre Dame; to establish more effective relations between the University and the Alumni Association. 
ARTICLE HI. Membership SECTION 1. The Association shall consist of active, honorary and associate members. SECTION 2. The active membership shall consist of the following: 
(a)
 Alumni of the University of Notre Dame. The term "alumni** shall embrace those holding the degree given in course by the Uni­versity for bachelor, master, or doctor. 

(b)
 Former matriculates whose entering Class shall have been graduated and who, upon application to and appnoval by the Board of Directors shall be acceptable to membership. 

SECTION 3. The honorary membership shall consist of the following: 

(a)
 All who receive from the University of Notre Dame degrees Honoris Causa. 

(b)
 Those friends and benefactors of the University of Notre Dame whose services the Association may desire to recognize and who shall be nominated and elected by the Board of Directors. 


SECTION 4. Associate membership shall consist of the faculty of the University of Notre Dame, not other\vise eligible to membership, who, upon election by the Board of Directors shall enjoy all the privileges of active membership. 
Provided, however, the qualifications for membership shall not apply to those who are members of the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame at the time of the adoption of this Constitution. 
ARTICLE IV. Officers 
SECTION 1. The affairs of this Association shall be managed, con­ducted and controlled by a Board of Directors consisting of a President, first Vice-President, second Vice-President, Secretary-Treasurer and six Directors. 
SEcriON 2. The retiring President of the Association shall become ex officio a Director for one year next succeeding the expiration of his term of office as President. All of the elected members of the Board of Directors as constituted under the Constitution of 1925 shall con­tinue in office as Directors until their respective terms of office expire. At the annual election of the Association to be held in the Spring of 1932 and each succeeding year thereafter one Director shall be elected to hold office for four years until his successor has been duly elected and qualified. Each graduating Class of the University beginning with the Class of 1932 shall elect a member of the Class as Director of the Association for a term of one year and until his successor has been duly elected and qualified. 
SECTION 3. No one shall be eligible to hold the office of President. first Vice-President and second Vice-President unless he shall have received a degree given in course by the University of Notre Dame of bachelor, master or doctor. Any member of the Association in good standing is eligible for any office in the Assocaition except as herein­before provided. 
SECTION 4. Any vacancies occurring in the Board of Directors shall be filled at the next annual election of the Association. SECTION 5. Annual elections shall be held in the Spring each year in such manner as the By-laws shall provide. 
SECTION 6. The Board of Directors shall meet annually immediately before the annual meeting of the Association or at any time at the call of the President or by a petition signed by any three members of the said Board. 
SECTION 7. The President and any tw^o members of the Board shall constitute a quorum, otheovise four members of the Board shall be necessary for a quorum. 
ARTICLE V. The Fiscal Year 
The official year of the Association which shall govern the terms of the officers and the fiscal affairs of the Association shall be from the date of the annual meeting to the date of the next annual meeting. 
ARTICLE VL By-Laws 
By-laws not inconsistent with this Constitution embodying additional provisions for the government of the Association and for the purpose of carrying out all provisions of this Constitution shall be adopted and may be amended from time to time by a vote of two-thirds of the members present or voting at any annual meeting of the Association or by special mailed ballot, provided further that notice shall be given of the change or amendment in the official publication of the Organiza­tion at least thirty days prior to said vote. Provided further that the By-laws appended to this Constitution shall go into effect contem­poraneously therewith and shall be and remain in full force and effect subject to amendment as hereinbefore provided. 
ARTICLE Vn . Amendments 
SECTION l. Amendments to this Constitution may be proposed 
(a)
 By a petition signcti by at least ten members and filed with the Secretary on or before April 30: or 

(b)
 By a resolution of the Board of Directors filed with the Secre­tary on or before April 30; and shall thereupon be printed in the ALUMNUS, if and when published, before the annual meeting, and shall be submitted to the members upon, and as part of, the printed ballot be mailed to the members on or before May 20. The vote thereof shall be canvassed and certified by the tellers as provided for the election of officers. 


SECTION 2. An affirmative vote for the additio|k-of such an amend­ment by two-thirds of the total legal votes cast at such election shall render such amendment effective from the tune of the announcement of such result, if not otherwise provided in such amendment. If it does not receive two-thirds vote, it shall stand rejected. 
.: ' BY-LAWS 

ARTICLE I. Duties and Powers of Officers 
SECTION 1. It shall be the duty of the President to preside at all meetings of the Association and the Board, and to perform all the usual duties of that office. 
10 THE NOTRE 
Sccnox 2- The first Vice-President shall perform the duties of the President in case of the latter's absence or disability. 
SECTION 3. The second Vice-President shall perform the duties of the President and the first Vice-President in case of the absence or the disability of both and in addition shall have charse of, and preside at the annual meeting of, the Officers of the Districts. 
SECTION* 4. It shall be the duty of the Secretary-Treasurer to keep an alphabetical list of all the alumni tosether -with brief biographical notes pertaining to the same: to act as necrologist, rendering an annual report as such necrologist, as prescribed by the Board of Directors; to act as a general agent of the Association under the control of the Board of Directors and to this end he shall have the general welfare in charge: to aid in the formation of local alumni dubs; to act as editor of the official alumni magazine, the Notre Dame Aluvinua; to collect membership dues; to keep the seal and accounts of the Associa­tion ; to revive all money belonging to the Association or funds held in trust by it; to inform each member of the Association concerning delinquencies in the payment of dues. He shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe and shall receive such compensation as the Board of Directors may de­t'ermine. The Sccrctar>--Treasurer shall give a bond for the faithful dUcharge of these duties, in such amount as the Board of Directors shall determine and with such sureties as they may approve. He shall render a true and accurate statement of the funds of the Association at the annual meeting. His accounts shall be audited annually by an auditor appointed by the Board of Directors. 
SECTION 5. The Board of Directors shall have control and manage­ment of the affairs of the Association in conformity with this Con­stitution and the By-laws. 
SECTION €. Term of office. Every officer of this Association whose tenure of office is not herein otherwise specifically fixed for a longer term shall hold his office from his election until the next annual meet­ing of this Association and until bis successor is elected. 
ARTICLE n . Meetings 

SECTION l. The annual meeting of this Association shall be held at the University of Notre Dame, in the State of Indiana, upon a day and hour to be fixed by the Secretary of this Association with the approval of the President of the University of Notre Dame, provided, however, that such day must be one of the days during which the annual Commencement exercises of the University of Notre Dame are in progress* 
SECTION 2. Special meetings of the Association may be held at any time at the call of a majority of the Directors fixing the time and place of such a meeting. 
ARTICLE in . Election of Officers 

SECTION 1. At the annual meeting but not later than November 1 following the incoming President shall appoint two nominating com­mittees of three members each who have not held an office for a year. 
Nominations for all officers except Secretary-Treasunrr and the Director representing the graduating Qass shall be made by these Committees. The Secretarj--Treasurer shall be elected by the Board of Directors. 
The names and addresses of the members of these committees shall be published in every edition of the Notre Dame Alumnus issued after November 1 of that year and until January 20 following with a request for suggestions from the membership at large. 
SEcnON 2. These two committees shall confer separately, hut each shall apprise the other upon its conclusions upon the nomination for President on or before January 20. The two committees are required to make different nominations for President, otherwise shall not be restricted against duplication of nominations. On or before February 28 both committees shall report their nominations to the President and to the Secretary; and from thence forward, the Secretary shall cause such nominations to be published in the Alumnus continuously until the annual meeting without reference as to which committee made the nominations. 
SECTION 3. Any twenty-five members, not more than ten of whom reside in any one county may by petition addressed to the Secretary, make other nominations, providing this is done by filing same with the Secretary not l:;ter than March 1. Such nominations shall also be pub­lished in the Alumnus after they are received, as in the preceding section retjuircd. 
St:cTioN A. The names of all persons nominated shall be placed by t:io Secretary on a printed ballot. In alphabetical order, without dis­tinction as to method of nomination, and one ballot, together with an envdopc marked "Ballot** with lines for the signature and address of the voter, shall be mailed, on or before May 20 to each member entitled to vote; ' 
This Ballot, when marked shall be sealed in such envelope marked "Ballot" npon which the voting member shall endorse his signature 
 DAME ALUMNXTS October, 1931 
and last mail address, and mailed back to the Secretary of this Asso­ciation or to the Association itself, at Notre Dame, Indiana; or such ballot 90 enclosed in a sealed envelope; and dulj* endorsed, may be delivered in person to the Secretary. But no such ballot shall be received or counted unless the same is delivered, as above provided, by mail or in person, at or before the actual meeting, that is, the actual opening and convening of the annual meeting, and before the ballots are delivered to the tellers as herein provided- The Secretary, or some representative for him, shall be in attendance at the annual meeting at least thirty minutes before the convening of the same in order to receive any ballots tendered to him. 
SECTION 5. The Secretary shall record, in alphabetical order, the names, with addresses, of all members whose ballot has been received; and shall see that no mranbcr deposits with him more than one sealed ballot; and immediately upon the opening or convening of the annual meeting (at which time the polls close), he shall deliver all such ballot envelopes, unopened, together with the list of those who voted, to the tellers theretofore appointed by the President. 
SECTION 6. No ballot shall be received or counted unless it is en­closed in a sealed envelope, marked "Ballot", with the name and address of the voting member cleaHy endorsed thereon, and delivered to the Secretary before the polls close. 
SECTION 7. The President shall, either at any time before or imme­diately upon the convening of the annual meeting, appoint three tellers, who shall open the ballots and canvass the vote, and certify the result thereof forthwith to the membership in annual n\ccting assembled; and the ballots and list shall thereupon be returned to the Secretary, who shall preserve them for one week, at which time he may destroy them unless otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors. In canvassing the \\>te, one teller shall open the envelope, imd deliver the folded ballot therefrom to the second teller, and the envelope to the third teller, who shall destroy the envelope, and so on. When they are all opened, the votes shall be counted. 
SECTION 8. A plurality of the votes cast shall elect. 
ARTICLE rV. 

DISTRICT GO\*ERNOIIS 
SECTION 1. For the purpose of more efficient administration of the business and affairs of the Association, the Board of Directors shall divide the territory in which the members of the Association reside into districts. The President shall, from time to time, as directed by the Board of Directors promulgate a list of the districts together with their respective boundaries and no changes or additions shall be made in the districts or boundaries thereof except by a majority of the vote of the Board of Directors. 
At the election of the Association to be hold in the Spring of 1932 there shall be elected from each of the districts as provided a District Governor and a Lieutenant District Governor who shall hold office for one year. At the expiration of his term of office the Lieutenant Dis­trict Governor shall become District Governor and shall hold said office for one year. At every annual election after 1932, there shall be elected from each of the districts as aforesaid a Lieutenant Governor who shall hold office for one year and on the expiration of his term of office shall ipso facto become Governor of said district for a term of one year. 
TH E ELECTION OF DISTRICT GO\'ERNOR AND LIEUTENANT 
DISTRICT GO\-ERNOR 
The District Governor and Lieutenant District Governor shall be nominated and elected in the same manner as provided for the dection of other officers of the Association except that the nominating com­mittees for said officers shall be composed of the members of said Association residing in the said district and shall be elected by mem­bers of the Association residing in the said district. In the event any district nominating oommittce fails or neglects to select a nominee for office of District Governor or Lieutenant District Governor within the time as provided by the By-laws of the Association, then the Board of Directors shall nominate fr«n the membership of such district a member of the said district for the said office, or offices as the case may be. 
SECTION 2. DISTRICT GO\XRNOR'S DUTIES 
The District Governor shall, under the general super^-ision of the Board of Directors of the Association be charged with the duty of furthering the objects of the Association in the district from which he is elected; to supervise and organize new alumni clubs In his dis­trict; to promote effective cordial relations between the local alumni clubs in his district and between said local alumni clubs and the University. 
LlEOTENANT DISTRICT GOVERNOR'S DUTIES 
The Lieutenant District Governor shall perform the duUes of the District Governor in case of the latter's absence or disability. 
October, 19S1 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
SEcnoN 3. MEETINGS ARTICLE VII. Order of Business 
The District Governor and Lieutenant District Governor shall meet annually immediately before the annual mcetinff of the Association at the University, or any time at the call of the President or by a petition signed by any six of said District Governors or by a petition signed by any three members of the Board of Directors. 
. ARTICLE V. Dues SECTION 1. Every active associate member (except he be a member of a religious order) shall pay annually in advance to the Secretary of this Association such dues as may be fised by the Board of Directors. The Board shall also determine the portion thereof that shall be designated as the subscription price for the Notre Dame Alumnus, 
SECTION 2. The Board of Directors shall have the right at any time, by resolution, to take any reasonable and appropriate action as to members delinquent in their duos and as to the retention of their names on the subscription list of the Ahtmmia; but such action shall not take effect as to any member until he has had at least thirty days* notice thereof. 
ARTICLE VI. Rxpenses 

SECriox 1. All authorized expenses and obligations incurred by the Association, its office, and its officers, shall be paid by the Treasurer from the funds of this Association. 
SECTION l. The order of business at any meeting of this Association may be fixed by By-laws or by Resolutions of the Board of Directors, except as herein otherwise provided or required. 
SECTION 2. The admission to membership of any new members at any annual meeting of this Association shall be deferred until after* the election of officers is completed, and the result announced: and the new officers shall assume their respective offices tram and at the time of the induction of the new members. 
SECTION 3. Ten votes shall constitute a quorum at any meeting. SECnoN 4. Rules of Order. Roberts' Rules of Order shall be the parliamentary authority at all meetings of the Association. SECTION 5. Whatever publication or notice is called for in the Notre Dame Ahtmmts hereunder, like publication or notice may be effected, with like validity, by mailing such statements or notices, in printed form, to any and all members who would be entitled to receive the 
Notre Dame Alumnus. 
ARTICLE VrU. Amendments 
SECTION 1. These By-laws, or any of them, may be amended, changed, added to, or repealed by a vote of two-thirds of those present and entitled to vote, at any meeting duly called, notified and held for that purpose. JOHN COSTCLLO, '12, Ckaimian. 
TlSIOTHY GALVIN. '16 
PAUL CASTNER, '23 

Few Changes In Province's Triennial Chapter 
There were few changes of signifi­cance though many of interest to alumni in the Triennial Chapter of the United States Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross, held at Notre Dame during the summer. 
The administration at Notre Dame was returned for its second term of three years. 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, '16, prom­inent in alumni activities, was made president of St. Edward's. Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C, '18, coach of the debating teams last year, was made vice-president at the Texas in­stitution. 
Rev. Joseph H. Burke, '04, formerly president of St. Edward's, was made principal of the St. Thomas Military Academy, St. Paul, succeeding Rev. Vincent Mooney, '16, who was as­signed to a professorship at St. Edward's. 
Rev. Thomjjs Irving, '04, formerly head of Moreau seminary, is once more on the faculty of the College of Science. He is succeeded at Moreau by Rev. James Connerton, '20, whose success with the Moreau Choir won national recognition in the broadcast of the Rockne funeral. 
Rev. Dominic O'Malley, '03, rector of Corby Hall for nine years, is now Superior of the Community House, Notre Dame.'~--Rey. William McNa­mara, '17, is Superior of the Holy Cross Seminary. 
Rev. Leo L. Ward, '20, after a year at Oxford University, England, is on the faculty of the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame. 
Rev. Joseph Muckenthaler, '23, and Rev. Thomas Brennan, '23, who had been at Columbia U., Portland, are on the Notre Dame faculty this year. 
Rev. James Kline, '22, is at the University of California, pursuing studies in astronomy. Rev. John Cav­anaugh, '23, ordained this summer, is in Europe for advanced study. 
Rev. George Fischer, '23, who was assistant pastor of St. Patrick's, South Bend, returns to Notre Dame as a professor. 
Father John Farley, '02, remains a rector of Sorin Hall; Rev. John Ryan, '06, in Lyons; Rev. James Stack, '13, in Morrissey; Rev. James Ryan, '20, in Walsh; Rev. F. M. Gassensmith, '17, in Badin; Brother Aidan in Brownson and Brother Maurilius in Carroll. 
Rev. Frank Cavanaugh, '23, suc­ceeds Father O'Malley in Corby; Rev. 
George Holderith, '18, succeeds Rev. John Margraf, '15, in Howard, Father Margraf going to Columbia U. in Portland; Rev. Henry Bolger, '24, takes the reins in Sophomore Hall, which has been re-christened Fresh­man Hall, while Rev. William Hayes Molony, '07, becomes the rector of old Freshman Hall, which is now desig­nated The Annex. Rev. Alan Heiser, '13, is rector of St. Edward's Hall, and Rev. Leo Heiser, '02, is Oif-Campus Rector. 
In the new residence halls. Rev. Raymond Clancy, '29, is rector of the beautiful new Alumni Hall, and Rev. Patrick Haggerty, '16, the rector of its new neighbor, Dillon Hall. 
iiiimtmitiiiiiinimnftH 

= COMPARATIVE ENROLLMENT THIS YEAR AND LAST 
I=  Total enrollment for 1931-32 Arts and Letters '.  (official) „  1,295  
i  Commerce  914  
II  Engineering Science  485  270  
I  Law  147  
I  Graduates  51  
i  3,162  

I 122 C. S. C. men (3,162 -122 equals 3,040) 
I 1930-31 I Arts and Letters 1,293 I Commerce 911 E Engineering : 479 I Science : 300 i Law 140 1 Graduates :.... •- 49 
3172 
a 



Around And About The Campus 
By Jonx A. KIEXEK, '32 
CAPITAL CHANGES 
Many were the remarks, "I feel worse than a freshman," during the registration days. The reason: sev­eral new systems, four new buildings, and a general amount of disorder caused by the combination of both. The new Edward N. Hurley College of Commerce building opened to classes the first day, but competition between the various professors and construction men was exceptionally keen. In most cases the nen'es of the profs gave out under the raucous rat-a-ta-tat of drills, air hammers, and other noise-making implements. 
The John F. Cushing Engineering building will not be ready until some­time in December. The brick-work is nearly all in place at present but there will remain much interior-finishing. The laboratories are ex­pected to be opened to classes before the actual completion, however. 
BAD BREAKS 
Students who shipped their trunks in care of Dillon or .A.lumni halls were disappointed on arriving, inasmuch as both halls still needed much in­terior work. Alumni opened a few days ago, however, with Dillon ex­pected to open its doors to some men of the class of 1935 within the next week. Students of the two halls were taken care of in South Bend homes. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
Number one of the above magazine appeared Friday the 2oth under the careful guidance and editorslup of Neil C. Hurley. In it, as usual, we find many interesting sidelights on campus happenings. Henry B. As-man, a senior in the science school, succeeds this campus trotter as man­aging editor of the Scholastic. The public relations department had a va­cancy which is now partly filled by "yours truly." 
BADIN BOOKSTORE 
-\nother of the changes to add to the general confusion was the re­moval of the bookstore from "next to the Alumni office" to the south wing of Badin basement. Sen-ice while you waited, but not quite as long as before, seemed to be in evidence. 
FROSH FERVOR 
"There are three kinds of education . . . that of the mind, that of the body, and that of the heart . . . and Notre Dame exists mainly for the purpose of education of the heart." Thus did Father Murch welcome 800 fiery freshmen in their initial convoca­tion. Captain Tommy Yarr asked them for spiritual aid; Herbert Giorgio outlined the work of the S.A.C., of which he is chairman this year. Gene Connelly, senior class proxy, also said hello. 
.4ND LUCKY BREAKS 
-At nine o'clock on September 15th, the following buUeting from the Rev. Raymond Murch, C.S.C, prefect of discipline, was posted: "The first hun­dred seniors to apply will receive per­mission to eat in the cafeteria." So reluctant were the seniors that the line soon gi-ew to huge proportions and the quota of lucky ones was filled within "a half-hour. With the students of Dillon and .4.1umni eating breakfast and supper in the cafeteria also, the line-up has somewhat re­sembled a bread-line in any city. But, as the seniors sigh, experience gained now is well worth standing for. 
FUNNY FELLOW 
Giving the poor downtrodden and bewildered frosh a respite from the annual hubbub. Funny Fellow Robert Gorman, new editor of the Juggler, intends to discard the usual issue devoted to the incoming itinerants. King Football will also be allowed to feel insulted for he also will not re­ceive special attention. Instead Bob will place an ".A.utumn" number in the hands of his eager readers. "That peculiar atmosphere of the campus in fall-time will dominate the book. Honor to the freshmen, the largest class, and to football, the largest sport, will be added to the maga­zine," says Gorman. 

IMPOSTOR BUSY 
Word comes from Portland, Ore., that a magazine solicitor, giving his name as William Barry, and posing as a Notre Dame student, has been soliciting Notre Dame men in that area. How these chaps can always find Notre Dame men ready to part with money when the honest, if less polished, appeals of the Editor go un­answered is one of the less sweet mysteries of this alumni life. How­ever, here's the warning. 
BAND CAPERS 

Something which resembled the turnout for football uniforms con­fronted Professor Joseph J. Casa­santa when he asked for candidates for the band. One hundred and t\venty-five men reported but this number will be pared down to So-odd for the regular band. First appear­ance was made at the Rockne me­morial game, vying with the Culver military outfit which came up for the tilt. 
ROCKNE RECORDS 
Through the co-operation of Paul Castner, '23, the Notre Dame book­store now has for alumni a limited number of phonograph records of a talk on "Pep" delivered by Knute K. Rockne. While the talk was given for commercial use, it is strictly a football talk, in Rock's inimitable style. The cost, wrapped and mailed, is one dollar. Any profits accruing from the sale will go to the Rockne estate. 

October, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 


How "THE SPIRIT OF NOTRE DAME" Was Made 
The Story Behind the Film Which Was Made as a Memorial 
To The Late Knute K. Rockne 
Back of every great moving picture the airplane trip which proved fatal. ideal of the football world. This there is usually as interesting a story Naturally, the plans for the picture something is "The Spirit of Notre as that which is told on the screen. were all awry, but out of the pieces Dame." 
Back in 1930, Christy Walsh had Christy Walsh, Carl Laemmle, Jr., Naturally, Father O'Donnell and obtained Knute Eockne's consent to and the president of the University the Notre Dame authorities required make a moving picture in •which he of Notre Dame created something a supervisory hand in the making of 
•was to play an actual role on the which was even more significant than the picture. It was agreed that the screen. The various elements •which the picture in which Eockne was to script should be approved by them in were to go into this feature had been star. This something was a picture every particular, that a representa­incorporated into a contract. This in which those who admired him most tive of the University be on the set contract was to be signed on a cer­could create a memorial to the expert at Universal City all the time, and tain day. In order to keep that en­coach, the human athletic director, that the Notre Dame authorities ap­gagement, Knute Eockne took off on the peerless leader of men and the prove the final cut of the picture be­
^l group of the vlatjcrs i» "T/ic Spirit of Notre Dame," fi'aturing Lew .-li/rcs and a number of former Notre Dame athletes. The above picture teas filmed in Ilotttjwood and is a replica of the Dinintt Halts on the campus. Those in the picture are: (left to right) Don Milter, Frank Carideo, Williatn Bakewell, Andu Devine, Father Broughal, ir/io acted as technical advisor, Elmer Layden, Lew Aijres, Harry Stuhldrchcr, Jim Crowley, and VVr7ioit Rickard. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1931 
fore one single foot of it could be printed. Every one of these condi­tions has been strictlj' adhered to. A writer, Dale Van Every, was sent to Notre Dame. He lived the life of a student for three weeks; he drank in the atmosphere of the place, he heard the tales of athletic prowess of for­mer football giants; he absorbed the local traditions. From all of these he wove his story, and took it back to Universal City to whip it into shape with Richard Schayer, Universal Story Editor. 
To Christy Walsh fell the lot of enlisting the football squad of for­mer heroes. It includes Frank Cari­deo, tivice Ail-American quarterback, The Four Horsemen,—Miller, Layden, Crowley and Stuhldreher, — Adam Walsh, captain of the Four Horsemen team, Bucky O'Connor, hero of the Southern California game last year. Captain John Law, Moon MuUins, Art McManmon, Al Howard and John O'Brien. They met in Chicago and went to Universal City in a special train which Mrs. Bockne and one of her sons joined at the last moment. For three weeks, the football stars, under the direction of Russel Mack, who has made splendid football pic­tures before, went through the old formations and the new technique of the talking picture. 
Great good fortune, devotion to their leader and inspiration of a re­vered institution hovered over "The Spirit of Notre Dame." It is no won­der that it is a tremendously enter­taining picture. It is no wonder that it has all of the qualities of truth and actuality which will appeal to every one who has been to college. 
As "The Spirit of Notre Dame" opens, it discloses Knute Rockne walking up and down before the Notre Dame team, giving them their last word of advice. This is what he said: 
"Now, the success of any team, men, is based on team play. This has been shown all the year. Sacrifice— unselfish sacrifice. These fellows they say are pretty good, but I think we're better and I think if we can get our­selves keyed up to a point where we're confident of that, why—the re­sults will take care of themselves. 
All right now—on the kick-oflT, if we receive, you men drop back and receive and block long in true Notre Dame style. 
If we kick off, where the rest of these teams walk — let's run down fast, just as fast as you can run— and then we go on defense. On de­fense, I want the center in and out of that line according to the situa­tion. Use your old heads and I want you guards charging through as far as you can go on every play. 
Let's put the play right over every time. And the tackles—I want you to go in—a yard and a half and then set yourselves. 
Spread you feet—squat down low and—^be ready with your hands and elbows so you won't be sideswiped and I want the ends in there fast—on every play—everj" play, but under control. And you men in the back field there, I want you to analyze he-fore you move. If you throw a for­ward pass—a forward pass—^wait till you see the ball in the air and then go and get it! And when we get it, boys, that's when w^e go on offense. 
That's when we go to 'em. And don't forget we're to pick on one tackle they've got that's weak. We're going inside of 'em—^we're going outside of 'em—^and when we get 'em on the run, we're going to keep 'em on the run and we're not going to pass—unless their secondary comes up too close. And we aren't going to stop until we go over that goal line. And don't forget, men — today's the day we're going to win! They can't lick us! want you men to go in there and fight, fight, fight, fight, fight! What do you say, men?" 
Building Program One of The Seven Wond ers 
The million-and-a-half dollar build­ing projects now being polished off or under construction by the University of Notre Dame have attracted the admiring comments of visitors from these United States—and Notre Dame has them. More than 17,000 persons registered at the Stadium from July 20 to September 10. 
The §200,000 College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce, the gift of Edward N. Hurley, LL.D. '18, is in use at present, though much of its decorative nature remains to be added. It is located immediately west of Chemistry Hall on the same side of the old Dorr Road. 
Alumni and Dillon Halls are to be occupied as this edition leaves the press. These $850,000 dormitories mark another great step, and a beau­tiful one, in the efforts of the Uni­versity to house all students on the campus. Some 500 boys can be accom­modated in the new halls. The quar­ters of the Prefect of Reli^on are likewise provided for in the new hall. One of the chapels, St. Olaf's, has been planned in memory of Knute Rockne. 
The $300,000 College of Engineer­ing building being built through the generosity of John F. Cushing, '06, is rapidly assuming imposing propor-: tions. It is hoped that it will be ready for use for the second semester. The building is situated on the South side of the old Dorr Road, facing the new Commerce Building and adjacent to the College of Law Building, com­pleted a year ago. 
And back by the old ice-house (the University now has electric refrigera­tion) a project of no little cost and importance, but lacking the academic possibilities of the above mentioned, goes merrily on to the joy of the real engineers—a $200,000 power house. 
That all of these projects are assets is evidenced by those in whose hands lay the planning. Graham, Ander­son, Probst & White of Chicago are architects of the Hurley College of Commerce; Maginnis and Walsh, Bos­ton, largely through Wendell Phillips, '12, have done the residence halls; Francis W. Kervick, head of the De­partment of Architecture at Notre Dame, is the architect of the College of Engineering. Albert Kahn has designed the power house. Ralph Sollitt and Sons were awarded the four academic and residence build­ings; Thomas Hickey is the contrac­tor for the power house. 
The program has furnished employ­ment for a number of months to sev­eral hundred men from the South Bend area, no little item in the brighter side of the local slice of the current industrial embarrassment. 
As this issue goes to press, there is just enough dirt and scaffolding about the finished buildings and just enough lack of development in the newly begun to discourage the Editor and the Photographer from elaborat­ing. But the next issue, out Novem­ber 1 if all goes well, or goes at all, will contain a rather full account of the new; Notre Dame, with illustra­tions, etc. 
President to Broadcast 

The Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, will be the speaker on the Catholic section of the "Church of the Air" broadcast November 8th over the facilities of the Columbia Broadcasting Company from the Chi­cago studios. The time will be 1:30 to 2:00 p. m. 
The subject of Father O'Donnell's talk will be "Religion in College Life." 
The opening and closing musical numbers will be furnished by the Uni­versity Choir of 35 picked voices under the direction of Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C. This is the same choir which was featured in the broad­cast of the late Knute K. Rockne's funeral last spring. 
October, 1931 THE NOTBE DAME ALUMNUS 
Fltimtiitimiitmniiimtiiiiiiitiiii •iiiiiiiiitiiitaiiiiiii llltitt IIIIIMIIItlll )lllillllllil)lllliltllliti)llliltiillllltllltllMilMIIMIIIHIMMiMIIIMIIini>nllH«iiiuilMtin 




EDITORIAL: 
Jiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiai ••iiiitiiiDiiiiii 
LUCKY ALUMNI 

As dreary and futile an hour as a person could spend has just been mine with the current issue of what is con­sidered, traditionally, to be a good magazine. 
This month, at least, it is primarily an expression of the frustration .which is seizing upon those who have departed from The Way. 
The leading article is by a former college president who repeats age-old fallacies and enlists more recent error to attack the Catholic Church. 
His arguments, basically, were more wearisome than depressing. But the desperation with which he quoted— without quotation—^from older plaints; the crude exaggera­tions with which he sought to make points in themselves vague; the ob\'ious selfishness and conceit cloaked so transparently under the editorial "We" or the abused "Science"; these must have left even his professed ad­mirers with a sense of futility. 
If this man speaks as the prophet of his cult—and few, of his beliefs, have been more honored—then his cult is indeed in stress. 
A 1931 Yale graduate, whom charity mantles with the more sympathetic cloak of youth, digs from its oft-violated grave the argument against higher education for the masses, and attempts to breathe into its cadaver the puls­ing vitality of Yale '31. 
Herein, as with the older men, a selfish and conceited viewpoint lies like a drowned man, visible under the shal­low sea of generalities with which it is covered. 
Both writers have missed, in their introspective lives, the real values held out to them. Both have had oppor­tunities, even the younger, which must have been lost if we are to judge from these expressions. 
A short novel occupied a rather large percentage of space in the issue. 
No matter what circumstances might surround a per­son in fact, it would seem that in fiction something of the ideals, something of the imagination, of th'e humor, that differentiates the human reactions from those of the animal, might find portrayal. 
Not in the case of the author of this bit! 
It might just as well have been a story of the great apes of Africa as of the foreign officialdom of that con­tinent. 
All those intangible, spiritual attributes that are man's apparently escaped the comprehension of this writer. The story thus degenerated to clay, and animal instincts. 
The ALUMNUS has no intention of being, and no desire to be, a Eeligious Bulletin. That field is adequately covered, including the alumni fortunately, by the able Father John F. O'Hara. Many of the things of the alumni world have no immediate religious significance. 

 OF NOTRE DAME 
But the Editor, who meets perhaps as many Notre Dame men and as broad a cross-section of them as any­one, has definite ideas on the advantages of a Notre Bame education, aside from its academic, social or religious ramifications. 
If a man has really been a Notre Dame man, he gains an overtone of pleasant confidence that never leaves him. This is the point that occurs to me immediately upon the conclusion of these so-called i-ealistic and pseudo-psycho­logical writings. 
Notre Dame men have succeeded in their professions to high places. And Notre Dame men have failed. Some have joined the Congregation. Others have gone far afield. Many have joined in all the activities of the alumni. A few have been difiicult of access, physically or in spirit. 
Almost without exceptions, Notre Dame alumni are hard critics. 
Therein lies my happy point. 
Those magazine criticisms of life, of institutions, had only ego as their norm. 
In any criticism emanating from a real Notre Dame man. Catholic or not, graduate or the man who achieved only a partial course, the extremes of egoism,—uncertainty and conceit,—are noticeably absent. 
There is in the expressions of Notre Dame alunmi that confidence, previously mentioned, that comes mth the knowledge that the opinion of the individual is supported by established authorities and recognized laws. 
Notre Dame men weigh their values with the tested scales of centuries. 
Theirs is not the stubborn bulwark of an embattled self against which the accepted weapons of the mind are futile. 
.Argument is in the essence of the true Notre Dame man. But what a pleasure it is to argue with him. 
If you are a victim of the depression, if your pro­fessional income is uncollectible, if your business has dropped to rock bottom, you Notre Dame men are still essentially sound. 
Notre Dame is rounding out a great building program, one of the few in the country today. It is not inflation. It is not sudden fortune. It is not pride or ambition. It is the result of careful years of planning, years of pro­ceeding along those lines that the men in whose hands her destinies lie know to be straight. 
"Tu es Petrus." 
The fortitude that comes through the Catholic Church to the Catholic schools and thence to the alumni of those schools is a treasure indeed in an era when this particular virtue is most sorely tried of all. 
Congratulations to you upon being a Notre Dame man. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1931 


VARSITY ROSTER 
UNIVERSITY Of NOTRE DAME 1931 SQUAD 
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 18. 19. 21. 22. 23. 24. 25. 26. 29. 30. 32. 33. 34. 35. 36. 37. 38. 40. 41. 42. 43. 44. 45. 47. 48. 
49. 50. 51. 52. 53. 54. 56. 57. 58. 59. 60. 61. 62. 63. 64. 65. 66. 67. 68. 69. 70. 72. 73. 74. 75. 76. 77. 78. 79. 81. 
Name 
Jaskwhich, Charles* Millheam, Duke Murphy, Emmett* Foley, Joe Vejar, Laurie Eohrs, George Mahoney, Dick* McGuff, Al Christman, Norb Sheeketski, Joe Host, Paul* Brancheau, Eay Connelly, John Franklin, Randolph Canale, Frank Mahaffey, Tom LaBome, Frank Schwartz, Marchmont** Bice, Leonard Burke, Vince Koken, Mike* Krusiec, E. F. Boland, Raymond Bolger, Charles Cronin, Carl* Hagen, Lowell Melinkovich, George Greeney, Norman* Leahy, Bemie* Leonard, James Capter, Albert McNamara, Regis* Halperin, Robt. Harris, James* Reuland, Eay Schumaclier, Al Cavanaugh, Vincent Beime, Roger Kosky, Edwin* Witucld, Bernard Alexander, Benjamin Lukats, Nick 
Van Rooy, William Tobin, John 
Gorman, Tom Led, Mike Pierce, Bill* Grunderaan, Rsuben Zoss, Oscar DeVore, Hugh Kreuz, Paul Whdan, Vincent Banas, Steve Jehle, Frank Acers, Julian Halpin, Robert Rogers, John* Flynn, Jack Kurth, Joe* Gildea, Hubert Pivamik, Joe Krause, Ed. Cousino, Bernard Wunsch, Harry Schrenker, Paul Hoffman, Frank Nordy* Eozak, George Yarr, Tom (Capt.)** Vyzral, Edward ' Carmody, James Mariani, H. Culver, Alvin** 
Pos. 
Q.B. R.H. Q.B. Q.B. Q.B. R.E. R.E. Q.B. Q.B. R.H. L.E. R.H. L.H. R.E. L.E. L. G. L.H. L.H. L.E. Q.B. L.H. F.B. Q.B. L.E. R.H. F.B. F.B. L.G. R.H. F.B. F.B. R.T. R.H. L. G. R.E. L.H. R.G. L.E. L.E. C. C. F.B. R.G. R.H. C. L.T. R.G. F.B. 
C. R.E. R.G. C. F.B. L.T. L.H. C. C. E.T. 
R. T. L.E. L.G. 
L. T. R.T. L.G. 
L. G. E.G. R.T. 
C. R.T. E.T. L.T. L.T. 

Home Toicn 
Kenosha, Wis. 
Beloit, Wis. 
Duluth, Minn. 
Jacksonville, Fla. 
Hollywood, Cal. 
New York City 
Cleveland Chicago Gr^en Bay, Wis. Shadyside, Ohio LaCrosse, Wis. Monroe, Mich. Toledo, Ohio Youngstown, Ohio Memphis, Tenn. Indianapolis Brooklyn Bay St. Louis, Miss. Hollywood, Cal. Pittsburgh Youngstown, Ohio Chicago Chicago Chicago Chicago Monroe City, Mo. Tooele, Utah Cleveland Chicago Perricktown, N. J. Paterson, N. J. Pittsburgh, Pa. Oak Park, lU. Bellaire, Ohio Reedsburg, Wis. Shawano, Wis. Chicago Fairfield, Conn. Yonkers, N. Y. South Bend, Ind. San Marino, Cal. Qary, Ind. 
Cleveland Janesville, Wis. Chicago South Bend, Ind. Sherman, Texas Merrill, Wis. South Bend, Ind. Bloomfield, N. J. Menominee, Mich. Grantwood, N. J. East Chicago, Ind. Detroit 
Chicago New Haven, Conn. Alexis, HI. Quincy, HI. Los Angeles New Haven, Conn. Bridgeport, Conn. Chicago Toledo South Bend, Ind. Elwood, Ind. Seattle Clevdand, Ohio Dabob, Wash. Chicago Chicago Pearl Biver, N. Y. Wilmette, HI. 
Prep 
Kenosha High 
Beloit High 
De LaSaUe, K. C, Mo. 
Eobt. E. Lee 
Holljrwood High 
Fordham Prep 
Cath. Latin 
St. Mel's 
E. Green Bay Shadyside High LaCrosse High Monroe High St. John's High South High Catholic High Cathedral High Brooklyn Prep St. Stanislaus Hollywood High Sacred Heart High South High De LaSalle De LaSalle De LaSalle St. Eita's Holy Eosary High Tooele High John Marshall St. Mel's St. Joseph's Central Binghamton, N. Y., H. S. Oak Park High Linsley (Bellaire) Eeedsburg High Shawano High St. Ignatius Peddle Yonkers High South Bend High So. Pasadena High Froebel 
Cathedral Latin Janesville High St. Phillip's South Bend High Sherman High Merrill High South Bend High St. Benedict's Menominee High St. Benedict's Cath. Cent., Hammond Western High Campion New Haven High Alexis High Quincy High Madison, Wis., High Milford and Hillhouse Harding High De LaSalle S t John's South Bend High Elwood High St. Martin's Holy Name High Chimacum Prep Lindblom Mt. Caimel Pearl River High St. Thos., St. Paul 
Yrs. on Age ^YL HU Squad 
20 20 22 21 21 20 20 20 21 21 21 21 21 21 20 21 21 22 21 19 22 20 20 20 22 
]9 
20 22 22 20 21 23 21 22 21 21 21 20 21 20 22 20 21 21 21 21 22 20 20 20 20 21 22 20 21 20 21 19 21 20 19 19 21 20 19 21 22 22 21 21 20 23 
174 156 153 158 168 168 175 170 172 172 175 180 165 174 190 170 163 170 175 152 170 180 160 170 157 170 180 185 175 190 185 190 194 187 182 171 175 175 185 175 185 178 195 180 187 180 185 183 175 180 180 175 188 195 175 178 175 196 200 188 195 210 175 200 185 204 198 197 209 210 193 212 
5:11 5:7 5:8 5:7 5:7 5:10 5:10 5:10 5:9 5:9 5:11 5:10 5:10 5:11 6: 5:9 5:10 5:11 6: 5:9 5:9 5:8 5:7 6:1 5:7 6: 5:11 5:11 5:10 6: 6: 6:1 6: 5:9 6:2 6: 5:10 6:1 6: 5:11 6: 6: 5:10 5:9 6: 6:1 5:8 5:11 5:11 6: 5:8 5:8 5:11 6:1 5:11 6: 5:8 
6: 6:1 6:1 5:9 6:3 6: 5:11 5:11 6:2 6:2 5:11 6:4 6:1 5:11 6:2 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 
1 
1 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 
u
1 0 0 1 2 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 2 1 0 0 2 
• Denotes Varsity MonoKram in Football. 

October, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
IIIIIIIIIMtltlllltllltllltllMtlllllKIHMIMI INltllMMtttMtMWMtM 
B' ..Q 



ATHLETICS: 
Q. 
•imiiiiiiiniiimimmitMiMiiiiiiiiitiiiiMiHiuMmiitiMiMiiMiiiMiMiiwQ 



Notre Dame Football Prospects 
The question of what Notre Dame will do without its beloved Knute Eockne is best answered, perhaps, in the statement of his successor on the coaching field, Heartley W. (Hunk) Anderson, who says that Notre Dame will have a "strong team and a suc­cessful season." 
Anderson, the genial Scotch-Irish assistant to Eockne for seven of the nine years after his brilliant playing career in 1919, 1920, and 1921, is con­fident but not over-confident. He does not predict a national championship for Notre Dame. He says that his team, hard hit by graduation of al­most the entire 1930 backfield, will lose some games, but that the season as a whole will probably be success­ful. 
One of the games Notre Dame is very likely to lose, says Anderson, is the Northwestern battle for charity at Soldier Field, Chicago, Oct. 10. Dick Hanley of Northwestern has back one of the strongest teams in Wildcat history and "Hunk" is sin­cere in his statement that "it is al­most impossible to have our squad ready in the short time between the opening of practice and that game. "But," he adds, "well give them a good fight and it won't be lack of spirit that will cost us the game." 
Anderson's greatest problem is the replacing of sixteen lettermen lost by graduation and six prospects for this 
-13 .7^9 •

1^^!^ ^" 
^5 •^ T •• f •?• ? ^ 
t' * , ^'., ?-^ rf. f 
' '•" \.'^ty^\y v^ 
•^.-rf' r V V \^ 7*^ 

last year, showed flashes of greatness By Joseph S. Petritz in spring practice and may be with the second team. Should injury over­Director of Sports Publicity take either of these two, Notre Dame 
will be against the walL 
year's team who are not returning to Anderson is depending largely on school for various reasons. the efforts of Jack Chevigny, back­field coach for the past two years, to 
Gone are Frank Carideo, Marty bring him a fullback and a right half. 
Brill, Larry MuUins, Paul (Bucky) Five fullbacks and four right half­O'Connor, Clarence Kaplan, Al How­backs have been lost to the team. 
ard and Joe Savoldi who made history Mullins, Savoldi, Howard, O'Connor, on the gridiron during the past two and Staab are missing at the plung­seasons. In the line, graduation took ing position. Staab, fourth string Frank Leahy and Dick Donoghue, man last year, was being counted up­tackles; Captain Tom Conley, George on to carry the burden this year, but Vlk, and John O'Brien, some of the he lost forty pounds during a summer finest ends ever to play for Eockne; illness and will not be able to play. 
little Bert Metzger and Tom Kassis, 
guards. 

At right half Brill and Kaplan were 
The only returning varsity back is graduated, the former an Al-Amer-Marchy Schwartz, all-American left ican. O'Connor, who also played halfback, who should rise to new right half, will not be back, and heights this year with sulficient sup­James Larkin, a great freshman pros­port from his mates. This position is pect is not returning to school. reinforced by the return of Mike Koken of the second team and Frank Fullback will be taken care of by LaBorne, a sensation with the fresh­Nick Lukats, late '30 find, and Steve man team. Banas, according to present prospects. 
Lukats and Banas were made over But the other three backfield posi­from left halfbacks while Hanley who tions are without hope or any Brills, rushed into battle in the last four Mullinses, Carideos, Savoldis, and games last year after the withdrawal O'Connors. Who will take Frank of Jumpin' Joe Savoldi is not in school. 
Carideo's place? The burden will probably fall on the shoulders of Lukats was injured before the Charles Jaskwhich, shock troop quar­opening of the season and will not be terback from last year who ran call able to play for another three weeks. 
signals, pass, kick, and block. Em-George Melinkovich, left half, and mett Murphy, unknown Bemie Leahy, right half, have been 
 an reserve . 

a^Q «« _gg9«i Q 5 ^ 9 9'm-^ 1 
,?.T .^.-f ^ -^'r . ^?: -p 


' "t^ 

^  «  *  =  ?  t  «  ~  i.  i  >  ^  ^  
.  .  '  ­ >  ^  . ^  .  V-.  v__  N--'  
 "V ^  •  '  '^  .  •«V>'  ^  1  •».«•  ,,  ^A'  A  ^1  ,  

THE 1931 SQUAD 
Coach Heartley **Hunk" Anderson and Line Coach John Frederick on the left; End Coaeh John *lke" VoediMch and Backfield Comeh Jodb Chevignw on the right, -with Manager John Grams, 
moved into this position to under­study Banas. 
It's hard to tell what will happen at right half. Carl Cronin, a quarter­back from last year; Joe SheeketsM, fourth string "work horse" from 1930; Eay Brancheau, a reserve, is the only men available. Both have fair capa­bilities but neither has had the neces­sary experience for Notre Dame var­sity ball. 
Coming to the line, -Ajiderson finds his hopes for a great forward wall are dwindling. Eight end, already weakened by the loss of Conley and Vlk was dealt a crushing blow when it was discovered that Moriarity and Phil Krause were not returning to school. This leaves Dick Mahoney, the only returning letterman, to carry on. And it looks at tliis ^vriting like he'll have to do the job alone. 
Anderson, a great guard on the un­defeated teams of 1919 and 1920 and the Western championship squad of 1921, has a reputation as a builder of guards. He replaced Jack Cannon and Johnny Law last year with Kas­sis and Metzger. He thought he was all set this year until he foimd that Bob Terlaak, his heaviest bet for a first string berth at right guard, will not be back. 
Bill Pierce, a monogram winner at guard last season, and Nordy Hoff­man who was made over from a tackle, will bear the brunt at right guard, but Terlaak will be missed. 
Eight tackle is secure in the ca­pable hands (and mammoth forearms) of Joe Kurth, sophomore sensation last year, and George Kozak, fresh­man star. The left side of the line and center will also be well taken care of with a wealth of returning veterans and likely looking sopho­mores. 
Captain Tommy Yarr will lead the team from center and should have a great year. His supporting cast in­cludes John Rogers and Tom Gorman naugh, and Ed Agnew of the reserves, and Ben Alexander of the frosh squad. "The trouble is," according to 'Hunk* Anderson, "that you can play only one center at a time. I'd like to have a game sometime with just cen­ters playing, but they don't do much good on the bench." 
James Harriss and Norman Greeney, both lettermen, will handle left guard, and Anderson has some good re­serves on hand should anything hap­pen to these two. Left tackle rests with Al Culver, "the most underrated player of the 1930 season," in the words of one scribe, and Ed Krause of the frosh squad. 
Ed Kosky and Paul Host of last 
year's team are back at left end aug­
mented by Leonard Bice and Frank 
Canale of the resen-es and frosh 
squads, respectively. 
Looking at the schedule, we find 
that Anderson has sufficient reason to 
be wary in his predictions. It is a 
tj^jical Rockne man-killer, another 
"impossible" string of games week 
after week against the best the na­
tion has to offer. 
October 10 the team goes into action at Soldier Field, some four weeks after the opening of practice, against the Purple team everyone is picking to win the Big Ten champion­ship and possibly national honors. This games will be the turning point of the season for Notre Dame. A victory, which seems out of the ques­tion, may inspire the team to win the rest of its games. A defeat may ruin the season. 
It's one game, though, that the team will be out to win for "Rock," and every man on the team will give every ounce of fight in his system to bring home a victory. 
Drake the following week at Notre Dame stadium will be tough, but Notre Dame should win. Indiana, Northwestern, and Drake all play hard clean ball and by Oct. 24 when Pittsburgh plays at Notre Dame, the team will undoubtedly be well bat­tered. Last year Drake put five men on the injured list, slowing them up for the last three battles with North­western, Army, and Southern Cali­fornia. 
Pittsburgh also promises to have a great team, although they're not say­ing much down in the smoky city. Only two regulars and four other let­termen were graduated and Coach Jock Sutherland should have a team equal to or better than his national championship contenders of 1929. Last year, Notre Dame won easily, 35 to 19, because Rockne had the team keyed to its highest pitch. This year it will be harder to convince the members of the Irish squad that Pitt will be "big, and strong, and tough," as Rockne described them. The game will be played at Notre Dame. 
Oct. 31 finds Notre Dame against another "new" Carnegie Tech eleven at Pittsburgh. In 1926, Carnegie robbed the Irish of a national title by winning, 19 to 0. In 1928 they' broke 25 years of Cartier leld tradi­tion with a 27 to 7 massacre. Both times Judge Wally Steffen had green teams. Last year Notre Dame won, 21 to 6, from a team which boasted eight veterans from 1928 — and the" answer is that dressing room talks lose their edge after a few repetitions and if s harder to steam up a veteran team than a sophomore squad. They're already talking about having Tech's "most spirited team" at the Skibo training camp. 
Pennsylvania, which is minus only six lettermen from last year, invades Notre Dame stadium the next week, Nov. 7. The athletic reorganization at Penn should result in a much better team this year and Anderson can never hope to have his team at the peak they reached in winning from Penn last year. Notre Dame should win, but at a closer margin than last season's 60 to 20 debacle. 

Playing Navy at Baltimore Nov. 14, Notre Dame will meet for the first time in history, the Notre Dame sys­tem. Edgar (Rip) Miller, of the Four Horsemen team of 1924, is now head coach at Navy, replacing Bill Ingram, who is at California, and he has in­stalled the Rockne style of play. Christy Flanagan of the 1926 team and Johnny O'Brien of last year's squad are helping him. Strangely enough, Anderson will have to map an entire new defense to stop the same plays he will be using himself that day. 
Howard Jones will bring his strong Southern California team to Notre Dame stadium, November 21 for what promises to be one of the classics of the season. A capacity crowd is ex­pected although there are still plenty of good tickets available for the game. The U.S.C.-Notre Dame rivalry has grown into one of the football "naturals" of the season and past performance means little when these two teams meet. It took all of Rockne's genius to map a defense for Jones's tricky attack and Anderson will have a real test when the coast giants play at Notre Dame. 
The season closes the following Saturday, Nov. 28, at New York for Notre Dame when Major Ralph Sasse will get a chance to avenge Notre Dame's 7 to 6 victory over Army in 1930. Sasse has rapidly built up a reputation in the East, and writers all along the seaboard are picking Army to show the way to the rest of the teams in that section this year. But this is another game where past records may be ignored. 
Only one thing seems to be certain in connection with the annual Cadet-Irish classic. In the words of Rockne himself, "when Army wins, there is never any doubt about the outcome; when Notre Dame wins, it's a close game." The game, the last on the card, is already sold out, thus setting some sort of a record for hanging up the SJ1.0. sign before the employees of Col. Jake Ruppert have moved into their winter quarters. 
October, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
iiiiititiaiiiiiii 
Q 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
Qn mniiiniinimiiiintiiniiniiiiiiniimmiimiHiiiniiiiiiiiiiintiiM 
BOSTON That is all for our June meeting; tra in the Balloon Room, and it is ex­
"Dear Jimmie: I am writing you the following ac­count of the latest meeting of the Boston Alumni Group as material, perhaps, for the first Fall issue of the ALUMNUS. On June I3th the Notre Dame Club of Boston elected officers for the cur­rent year at a dinner held at the Boston Yacht Club. It was by far the most well attended gathering, fifty being present. These are the new officers, Honorar y President, James J. Phelan; President, Joseph A. Gartland , Jr., '17; Vice-President, Jack Saunders, '31; Secretary-Treaus­urer, Maurice "Paddy" Cohen, '27. The evening's entertainment was in part afforded by Bill Murray Com­pany, Comedians. I say in part al­ways making resen'ation for sched­uled entertainment of members. An excellent turkey dinner was served in the usual fine way by tlie Oub to the liking of all . . . Except for City Councilor, Joe McGrath, who repre­sented His Honor, the Mayor, the speakers were from within the Club membership. For the first time the older grads were attracted to the gathering and all displayed much enthusiasm. The following list to the best of my rec­ollection is a complete attendance roster: Father James Donovan, Chaplain; Charlie Bain, Charley Burke, Paddy Cohen, Len Collins, Eddie Collins, Charlie Colten, Ted Coyle, Charley Crowley, (Kock's teammate); Bed Crowley, (linesman with Gipp); Jerry Crowley, Joe Desmond, (who was largely responsible for the success of the dinner); Jim Dooley, guard with Gipp, who handled the toastmaster's job in fine fashion; Red Donovan, Pete Dwyer, old time grid star and until recently line coach at Syracuse and who was until recently summer­ing at Hingham, Mass.; Dick Dunn, Jim Etherington, Joe Gargan, Frank Heron, jVndy Kane, "Smoky" Kelle­her, "Doc" Lpch, Luke Kelly, '12, football captain; Hughie McCafferty, Leo McCauley, Chick Maguire, George McCarthy, Andrew Mulreany, Bemie Murphy, Tommie Murphy, Tommie Qualters, "Doc" Sharry, Jim Skahan, Jack Witters, Joe Condon, Joe Sul­livan, Jack Culhane, Jerry Teevens, Jim Webb, John Hanley, Harry Beck­ett, Jack Saunders, Art McManmon, Jim Murray, Jarlath Slattery, Eddie Ehatigan and Jim Seccareccio. Ted Rourke of the Commerce faculty in '23 and '24, attended. 
may we have many more like it. Best regards, Jim, to you and the boys. Sincerely, Joseph A. Gartland, Jr. 
BUFFALO 
Gordon'Bennett sent in a short ac­count of the Club's activities under date of July 29. Gordon says: 
"Paul Hoeffler has told you, prob­
ably, about our last official party 
which was in the form of a stag pic­
nic over the river at Sherkston, On­
tario. (Ed's note; tsk, tsk). We had 
about t^venty present, and they spent 
the day in horseshoe tossing, swim­
ming, soft-ball, just plain chinning, 
and a little "gamboling." Lots of 
lunch . . . and a good time was had 
by all." 

CALUMET REGION 
At the Spring meeting of the Calu­met-Notre Dame Club, the following new officers were elected: 
Luther M. Swygert, '27, Hammond, President; Bill Voss, '23, Harvey, 111., Vice-President; Pat Maloney, Cro^vn Point, Ind., Secretary; Hugh Carroll, '16, Indiana Harbor, Ind., Treasurer. 
As a courtesy to the students from the Calumet Region who are attend­ing Notre Dame this year, the Club entertained with an annual dinner meeting late in August at Vogel's fish house in Hammond. About thirty-five Notre Dame men from Hammond, East Chicago, Indiana Harbor, Whit­ing, Gary and several other Chicago suburbs in Cook county attended the meeting. 
Ye Editor was the principal speaker (loud applause) and principal fish-eater of the evening. (Mr. Vogel has our vote for election to the Hall of Fame. Such food!) Tim Galvin, Jack" Chevigny, Junior Football coach at Notre Dame, and Ike Lower all de­livered splendid addresses. We are looking forward with a great deal of pleasure to attending another of the Calumet Club's meetings soon. 
CHICAGO CLUB 
'The Notre Dame -Alumni of Chi­cago and their friends will celebrate victory after the Northwestem-Notre Dame game at Soldier Field, Satur­day, October 10th, at a dance thqt will be held by the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, at the Congress Hotel. 
Music will be by Orloff's Kings in the Gold Room, and by Bemie Cum­mins and his Biltmore Hotel Orches­
pected that a large number will at­
tend the affair as the Northwestern 
game will be the occasion of the 
Notre Dame football team's only ap­
pearance in Chicago this Fall. 
Reservations for the dance may be 
sent direct to the Congi'ess Hotel, c-o 
The Notre Dame Club of Chicago. 
James H. Brennan is President of the 
Notre Dame Club of Chicago, and 
John T. Houlihan is Chairman of the 
Committee in Charge of Arrange­
ments for this dance. 
DUBUQUE 

C. I. Krajewsld, of Dubuque, to­gether with several other alumni, has been endeavoring to organize a Notre Dame Club of Dubuque. We are look­ing forward to listing the definite or­ganization in the next issue of the -ALUMNUS. Notre Dame men in the vicinity are urged to get in communi­cation with Mr. Krajewsld at 321 Bank & Insurance Bldg., Dubuque, Iowa, or to write to this Office. Let's get going! 
ELYRIA 

"Doc" Guth writes from Elyria: 
"jVm still interested in organizing a local alumni club and will try again to stimulate interest so that by Fall we may have an organization." This under date of July 27. The Alumni Office hopes that the Elyria alumni are organized as this goes to press. 
INDIANAPOLIS 

The Notre Dame Club of Indianap­olis held their second annual golf tournament, July 16, at the Speedway Golf Course. The trophy for first place was awarded to James Corbett, 'IG, at the dinner which followed the tournament. "Bob" Kirby, '28, (for­mer drum major of the Notre Dame Band) and "Jack" Davis, '29, were in charge of the affair, and inciden­tally won second and third place, re­spectively. First prize in the blind par handicap was -taken by John Eocap, '29. Others who were awarded prizes were William P. Fox, '19, Jo­seph Sexton, '26, and Lawrence Sex­ton, '32. Joseph P. McNamara, '29, was presented with a "Tea Hammer." Michael Dufficy, '26, received a Divot Fork to use in replacing the divots he scattered around the course, and Harry Scott, '16, carried away a spade to assist him through his fu­ture rounds of the sand traps. 
For the benefit of those members of the club who are unable to attend the monthly noon luncheons of the club, a dinner at 6:30 P. M. at the Indianapolis Athletic Club will be held in place of the noon luncheon every fourth month. 
KENTUCKY 

The ALUMNUS extends sincere sympathy to the Notre Dame Club of Kentuckj' on the loss of Ed Bohmer, '27, Secretary of the Club. Ed died in Louisville this past summer after a short illness. A complete account of his death appears imder The Alum­ni section in this magazine. 
L0UISL4NA-MISSISSIPPI 

Cyp Sporl reports that some more "big men from the South" are again at Notre Dame this year. Cyp says: "Had the pleasure about a week and a half ago of seeing my kid brother, cousin, Jules de la Vergne and Tom Daigle off to Notre Dame. Just a week prior I saw Marchie Schwartz off, so you can see from the afore­going that we will be well repre­sented again this year at the old in­stitution. 
"Needless to say we are again look­ing forward to another big year for Marchie, and hope that Daigle, a for­mer prep star from here, will take up where he leaves off. 
"Had the pleasure of having a nice visit from Big John McMuUen this past summer. Also had a very inter­esting letter from "Toad" Shiffer, '26, and I must say that "Toad" has cer­tanly kept track of the old Sopho­more Hall gang in his vicinity. 
"Our next Club get-together will no doubt be some time during the foot­ball season. Boland Burke has re­ceived his law diploma from Yale, and has again joined us. He will take the January Bar and have no doubt that he will maneuver it. 
"Had the pleasure of seeing Judge Blache. He tells me he contemplates on moving to Houston, Texas." 
MILWAXnCEE 

The Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee is setting a good fast pace for the other clubs. According to the an­nouncements received by the .4.1umni Office this Summer the alumni in Mil­waukee have been enoying a series of varied entertainments provided by the Club. 
On July 7 members of the Club were guests of Chauncey Yockey, '01, at a luncheon at the famous Elks Club. The President of the -Alumni Association and the Alumni Secre­tary were invited to attend. To his regret, business made it impossible for the Secretary to enjoy the party, but Frank Hayes, the President, was there and reported to the head man in the Alumni Office that the affair was a success. At this time Chet Freeze was appointed Chairman of 
the Living Endowment Committee in 
Milwaukee. 

-And on July 18 the Club sponsored 
a Stag outing at the William Enders 
Hotel on Lake Nagawicka. Baseball, 
horseshoes, golf, bathing, eats and 
drinks were provided by the Commit­
tee in charge for the entertainment 
of the members. -According to Free­
man Fitzgerald and Bill Coakley, 
Vice-Presidents, the Bulls intended to 
outdo the Bears in attendance and 
all contests. 

On August 3rd, the Antlers Hotel, Milwaukee, was the scene of the crime. The Club met for a luncheon at 12:15 P. M. Eddie Rogers, '14, furnished the attendance prize. A home talent program was a feature of the meeting. 
You say you're not satisfied , . . you say you want more. Well, get a load of this. On September 9 the Club met at the Antlers, Milwaukee-for a luncheon meeting with the ten undergraduate students and the sev­enteen brand new students from Mil­waukee, Racine and West Bend as guests of honor. Included among the honor guests were sons of Frank Burke, Tom O'Meara and John Pick. "Doc" Watt furnished the attend­ance prize. 
-According to a recent announce­ment Dudley Pearson has invited the Club to a stag party at his home. No details of this affair have been re­ceived by the Alumni Office. 
NEW JERSEY 
"The New Jersey gang has started off on another voyage and from the fine beginning made we should have a wonderful year. On Sept. 9, the alumni were hosts to the freshmen from New Jersey who are now en­rolled at the University. We had as guests 30 freshmen, and this swelled the attendance to some 60 counting the speakers, guests and old stand­bys among the alumni. 
"James Silver, who was Chairman of the affair acted as toastmaster, and introduced the brilliant array of speakers, headed by Simon P. North­rupp, Vice-President of the Fidelity Union Trust and Mortgage Company, and a Yale man; John E. Toolen, former prosecutor from Middlesex County, and a Cornell graduate; Frank E. Roan, a N.D. man of '08, now general counsel for the Com­mercial Casualty Co.; Rev. Herman 
J. Storck, the genial retreat master of Loyola House of Retreats at Mor­ristown; John Law, one of our own, and Captain of the famous 1929 team of fond memory; Marty Brill, one of the satellites of the past two sea­sons; and our old standby, Joe Byrne. 
"The remarks, most of which were addressed to the prospective students, were very amusing in parts, but withal to the point and if the young­sters only absorbed half of the good advice, Notre Dame need have no fear of the calibre of students the Garden State sends her. 
"Joe Byrne led a band of stalwarts 
up to the beautiful estate at Morris­
town for the annual week-end retreat 
of the Club, and many a Corby and 
Sorin "sub" scene was re-acted. This 
was incidentally our third annual af­
fair to Loyola, and Father Storck 
finds that the spiritual side of Notre 
Dame has never been neglected, even 
among the blase alumni. 
"Our next meeting is scheduled for October 5 and should be well at­tended, if the efforts of our new "prexy," Bill Carter, are rewarded. This really is our first business meet­ing of the year, and if Bill is the parliamentarian he indicated in his acceptance speech I should have some real news for you next month. 
Joe Nulty" 
(Secretary) 
NEW YORK . 
Rumor has it that the New York Club enjoyed a swimming party on September 3, at the New York Ath­letic Club. 
-And then from Dan Cannon, of the Columbus Ohio Cannons, comes this to whet out appetite for more news concerning our alunmi in the big town. 
"The New York Club is rather active. We had a very fine dinner Thursday. Walsh and Brill were there and put over a fine speech." Dan neglects to say just what Thurs­day this occurred. Dan, by the way, is rooming with Bemie Conroy, the '30 Qass Secretary. 
NORTHERN C.ALIFORNLA 
San Francisco, September 15— ECHOES FROM THE GOLDEN GATE: This initiates a column, re­tailing the news of this chapter and will live as long as we get stuff to write about . . . Intended to hold gigantic meeting end of September. That was before we previewed pic­tures sent us . . . Those seminarians will never bother Adolphe Menjou. At least Hollywood couldn't use them in the FRONT PAGE .. . Is foot­ball still played at Notre Dame? And are pictures of the games ever shot? If so, we would like to see some of them. We liked the semi­narians all right, but they're not good box office. 
THEY TELL US: That Patrick J. Dunne, son of Bert Dunne, '26, aged four months, was seen in Golden Gate Park, Simday, swinging a bat . . . Observers report he is a left-handed hitter and looks bad on curve balls . . . We saw Eustace Cullinan, Jr.; '25, hurrying from his law office the other day. He's a member of the 

October, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Legion of the Condemned now. Married? Of course . . . Ran into Keene Fitzpartick, '12, this morning. He just knocked over another account for the Chicago Tribune. He had a 72% lineage increase last year. He's the fair-haired boy with that organ­ization, represents them on the Coast. He lives in a swell shack down the country; has a dog, a moving picture camera, two daughters; and he still looks like a collar ad. He also rides a horse and plays golf. A rather swanky-fellow .. . We understand that Bemie Abbrott is down at Holly­wood working on a picture. He brought his megaphone with him . . . Chanced to see Al Antone—sorry— Doctor Albert Antone, '27, (by way of St. Louis U. '31) at St. Mary's Hos­pital. How does that lad keep that bandbox look? .. . Dr. Antone will practise in Los Angeles. He'll starve to death. There's too many dead ones there. (This column is out for blood. Duck, Los Angeles!) (This is North-em California yodelling.) 
That's the way a column gets talked about. Anytime a guy quibbles and gets fancy with diplomatic Eng­lish, he loses his punch . . . Clipper Smith, '21, Santa Clara coach, has cried so hard about his team's pros­pects this year that he has been chal­lenged by the Home for the Aged. Buck Shaw, '21, his assistant, is cry­ing with him. They lost nine players. Some were de-necked by the faculty . . . (word de-necked, copyrighted; differs from be-necked, of course. Clipper has lots of athletes who are artistic be-neckers.) 
Slip Madigan, '21, St. Mary's coach, is keeping the publicity fires burning .. . A very smart gent, is Slip . . . He's on the air, writes a column now and then, and coaches in his spare moments. He has Vince McNally, '27, ^vith him. Vince looks after the backfield, they say Slip and Vince should have a fine year. They play 
U.S.C.
 in the opener .. . Oh yes, a private collection will be taken up at the XJ.S.C—St. Mary's game for the Rockne Memorial. Idea suggested by 

U.S.C.
 Nice gesture, Trojans! . . . Phillip Kelly, Berkeley, entering this year's freshman class . . . writes like an angel. He will represent North-em California in a literary way for the next four years. No, we can't send any athletes. They need them out here. 


Mark Kreutzer, '24, is with the Pacific Shipper, as of yore. He is doing very well. He pays the club's bills. (Yes, often with his own money. But we'll reimburse him. That's a handy word, reimburse. It is high-toned, yet does not tie you down like a promissory note.) 
Harry Burt, '12, is with Motor Nezos automotive trade organ. He is also the big driveshaft in the Amer­ican Legion Jtmior Baseball setup . . . The Northern California Club memo­rial to Knute Rockne off the press next week . . . We saved it for the fall, keyed the theme and art for this time of the year . . . Bob McDonald: '28, practising law in Oakland . Billy Yore, '28, still very active in many things . . . Eddie Freitas, '28, vice-president of a San Rafael dairy. 
Tony Gorman, '22, runs a soap works, still cuts comers in his car, is just as fat and saucy as ever . The voice of Modesto, Steve Gavin, comes to us now and then . . . Breen McDonald, '22, is doing very well . We are planning three meetings for the fall, a dinner dance, a golf tour­nament—and two picture shows if we get the material from Mr. James Armstrong . . . John Mclnnis, '22, still holds forth on Montgomery street, the Wall Street of the West . . . Dr. J. M. Toner, grad of the early '90's, occupies a very important position in the state administration . . . That's all for this month. 
PE0RL4. 
Albex-t Gury, Jr., Secretary-Treas­urer of the Peoria Club donates this for the Column: 
"In response to your call for news for the ALUMNUS, the Peoria Club held a very enthusiastic picnic supper on September 3. The Club being in­I'ited as guests to the farm of Dr. Clarence Ward of Peoria. This was attended by twenty-eight members of the Club and students returning to Notre Dame. 
"Among the guests was the man­ager of the Publix Theatres of Peoria who is sponsoring the great plans being made for the Club when the picture "The Spirit of Notre Dame" is shown here. 
"The Club is again going to meet at its monthly luncheon, and is going to perform some spiritual help for the team in order that they may "carry on for Rockne." 
Albert Gury, Jr., 
704 W. Wilcox Ave. 
Peoria, HI. 
PHILADELPHIA 
Harry Francis, Jr., Secretary of the Philadelphia Club, sent in a note re­cently to the effect that the Philadel­phia alumni had called off all meet­ings until September. Harry says he is working and also playing ball daily so that he doesn't have many spare moments. Ain't that something! If the Republicans read this they will be using it as campaign material. 
Anyway, we are waiting for some real Club notes from the Quaker City soon. 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 
E. C. Schonlau, Syracuse Club cor­respondent, says in a recent letter to 
tehe Office, that Club activities have been very slow daring the past sum­mer, due, in part to vacations and ill­ness. Leo Kelly, one of the Club's star golfers was ill with scarlet fever. We trust that members of the Club will get together some of these days and keep things moving along. 
SOUTHWESTERN TEXAS 

Joe Menger, one of the leading lights of the Texas alumni, and Pres­ident of the Club, underwent a seri­ous operation recently, according to Father O'Hara's Religious Bulletin. Joe usually keeps us informed on the alimmi activities in and around San Antonio. Our Club Notes will be mighty puny unless someone gives Joe a tonic or a secretary. 
TIFFIN 

Fred Wagner, Secretary of the Tiffin Club writes: 
Club activities, especially in a small community, have been decidedly in­active here during the Summer months. However, within a few months we anticipate a bit of action around here, and when news of any kind is forthcoming, yon may be sure that we shall relay it to you and to the ALUMNUS." 
TRIPLE CITIES 

The Notre Dame Club of Bingham­ton is now known as the Notre Dame Club of the Triple Cities. 
Members of the Club enjoyed a dinner at the Arlington Hotel, Bing­hamton, N. Y., on September 3. The meeting was attended by a number of graduates of Notre Dame and under­graduates. Resolutions were passed in re the death of Knute K. Rockne and James Farrell, (a brother of the famous ball player, Eddie Farrel, a present member of the New York Yankees, who died in this city re­cently.) 
John O'Loughlin, Secretary of the Club, assures us that the Club ex­pects to hold another meeting and dinner during the Christmas holidays. By this time the Notre Dame men in the Binghamton vicinity will be or­ganized and ready for action. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 

Morrie Starrett threatens to cut the throats of those in the Office unless the change in Club officers is listed in the forthcoming ALUMNUS. We offer our humble apologies for neg­lecting to make this important change in the June issue. Anyway, here they are: Dr. Clarence Shannon, President; John Carmody, Vice-President; E. Morris Starrett, Secretary-Treasurer. 
Morrie tells us that he may have a tough job getting back to N. D. this year for the football season. We, at Notre Dame, hope that Morrie will 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, lOSl 
come strolling into the Alumni Office 
some of these days. He brings us 
luck. 
TOLEDO 
The Toledo Club held its first meet­
ing of the season September 13 in the 
breakfast room of the University 
Club, where a nice crowd turned out 
according to Ray Tillman, Secretary 
of the Club. Ray gives us iome vital 
statistics which appear under the 
Births, Marriages, Engagements, in 
this issue. 
Last December the Notre Dame 
Club of Toledo decided to meet on 
the first Sunday of every month at a 
communion breakfast. Special pews 
are set aside for us at the new cathe­
dral. The cathedral is centrally lo­
cated for the majority of our mem­
bers. After the fellows attend eight-
thirty Mass and Holy Communion in 
a body we hold our meeting in the 
grill room of the University Club 
which is only a few blocks from the 

church. 
The idea has worked out fine. -Al­though making an early Mass means some sacrifice on the part of the fel­lows, such as, breaking up a full day of golf or making aramgements with the wife so that they "can stag it," our numbers increased as the months passed, and by June we had seventy-five percent of our active members attending our meetings. This is a much larger percentage than we had ever had in the past even though our 
0.. 
B" 
Births 

To Mr. and Mrs. EMORY TOTH, '23, August 2, a boy. This is the second son in the Toth family. 
Eddie Fallon writes from New York to tell us that "RED" (FRAN­CIS J.) CONROY, '26, has a young son who has been called Philip William. He arrived June 23 and tipped the scales at nine pounds. 
The Registrar at Notre Dame is seeing to it that Notre Dame w-ill have plenty of students eighteen years from now . . . and so cinch his job. John Patrick Riordan, whose proud papa is Registrar ROBERT RIORDAN, was bom September 7. This makes Notre Dame three, St. Mary's one. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES J. RO­BRECHT, '24, announce the arrival of Rosalie Jean on June 27. 
meetings had been fewer in number. 
We decided not to have meetings during July and August but this Fall we expect even larger numbers be­cause the boys will want to come to­gether to talk over "the football sit­uation." Seeing this same group of men going to the Sacraments regu­larly has created some favorable com­ments from the parishioners and it proves to them that the Notre Dame man is a frequent communicant years after he has left the portals of his alma mater. 
WHEELING, W. VA. Dear Jim: 
I'm writing to you to inform you of the activities sponsored by the Wheeling Alunmi group. During the summer months two very successful dances were held in conjunction with the Wheeling Club of Notre Dame. They were quite successful both so­cially and financially. 
The first one was held in the early part of July at the Hawaiian Gar­dens in Wheeling. The second one took place out at Belmont Hills Country Club on our side of the river. Socially speaking, they couldn't have been any better. These affairs were strictly imitational, and the crowds couldn't have been nicer if they had been hand-picked. The suc­cess of these dances, I believe, in­sures their being held annually. And, of course, we are going to plan for a 


-THE ALUMNI: 
Edward J. Rvan, Jr., son of Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. RYAN, '25, was bom June 22 and at last reports was doing fine. 
On a recent visit to the Alumni Office, Mr. and Mrs. R.AY TILLJIAN, '25, informed the Secretary that Ray Jr., arrived June 26. The Tillmans have t\vo little daughters. 
Viva the Class of '25! The GERRY MILLERS have twins! Tom and Gerry were bom on July 1, just in time to give Gerry a chance to cele­brate a glorious Fourth of July. The Miller Brothers tradition waxes. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD G. BYRNES, '25, announce the birth of a daughter, Kathryn Louise, June 16. They live at 560 S. Negley ave.. No. 20, Dover Gables, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
K. of C. Bov Welfare Director, J. WM. McGOWAN, '25, has added an assistant to his staff in the Wabash Building: it's a boy, nine pounds, and Christmas affair, if everything goes all right. 
There will certainly be a mob to go up to Pittsburgh for the Tech game the last day of October. She­keetsM and Harris, playing with the Varsity this year, have got this part of the country plenty steamed up again, especially BeUaire. 
Personally, I'm planning on going to see the Northwestern game in Chi­cago, and if I can make the neces­sary arrangements so that I can get away, n i be there. 
Our monthly dinner meetings will start again the first part of next month. 
Here's hoping the team can hang up another clean slate next Decem­ber for this year, in honor of Rock's memory and Hunk. 
Sincerely, The Sec-Treas. of the N. D; Club of Wheeling, George Sargus. 
WABASH VALLEY 
NOBLE KIZER, '25, was elected president of the recently re-organized Wabash Valley Club with Peter Vogt as Secretary-'Treasurer. 
The Club is planning on doing a number of worthwhile things this year and we trust that the alunmi in the Wabash Valley territory will get together and promote a strong or­ganization. 
riiiiiniitiiiiiiii mil i iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii i Q 
everything is all set for him on the Notre Dame team 1949. 
Now is the time to ask ARTHUR HALEY, '26, for those fifty yard line tickets for the Army game. Art is wearing the big smile these days, probably because a daughter, Patricia Ann, arrived at the J. ARTHUR HALEYS on Sunday, September 27. Patricia Ann has two brothers, John and George Haley. 
JIM RONAN, '26, adds this para­graph to a recent letter: "On July 21, James Ronan III, made his appear­ance. The little guy is getting along fine, as is his doting mother." 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH MURPHY, '27, La Crosse, Wisconsin, announce the birth of a daughter on June 12. They have one son. 
Robert Page Rust is the son of Mr. and Mrs. OSIC\R D. RUST, '29. He arrived on August 20 and weighs seven pounds, thirteen ounces. 

October, 19S1 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
An advertiaemeat 
written for TIME by 
HlH Catherine P. Harris. 
Junior Leatfoe of Boston. 

^ (IQ¥ainless Operation 
.. . High up under the dome of Boston's Massachu­setts General Hospital, far removed from the wards so that the screams of sufferers under the knife will not horrify the ward patients, is the Hospital's famed operating amphitheatre. Many a medical student dreads the operations he is privileged to watch, fre­quently faints. But one day last week Dr. John C. Warren, Boston surgeon, led a group of surgeons and students (class of 1847) up the long stairs, eager, hurrying. 
For there beckoned an interesting experiment— surgery without pain. Dr. William Thomas Green Morton, 27-year old Boston dentist, thought it pos­sible, had experimented to that end with ether, a volatile, pungent chemical compound capable of pro­ducing insensibility. He had tried it on animals, on himself, then on his patients while extracting the roots of decayed teeth. Finally he had obtained per­mission from Dr. Warren to let him test his drug before an audience. One Gilbert Abbott, with a tumor on his neck, was to be the first trial. 
At 11 a.m. the last privileged student hurried into the amphitheatre. Experimentee Abbott, fidgeting on the operating-table, looked anxiously at the clock. Casual talk ceased, sudden silence prevailed as the tninute-hand crawled past the hour, and Dr. Morton did not appear. "He and his anesthetic! Humbugs both, no doubt!" mumbled a doctor. It became five minutes past eleven, ten, then a quarter after. The patient stirred uneasily. Dr. Warren selected an in­strument, advanced to the table—^useless to delay pro­ceedings any longer. As his knife poised for the in­cision. Dr. Morton, breathless, apologetic, rushed in. He held in one hand a curious globe-and-tube apparatus. 
In eager concentration, tensely expectant, the wait­ing group of surgeons and students watched while the newcomer—a charlatan perhaps, a genius possibly— adjusted his peculiar inhaling apparatus to the pa­tient's mouth and with tense composure administered 
Cultivated Americans, impatient with bis anesthetic. Veiled skepticism revealed itself when the patient reacted suddenly in wild exhilaration, but this exuberance subsided, relaxation took its place, then <mconsciousness. Skepticism was routed, amaze­ment paramount. Said Dentist Morton to Surgeon Warren: "Your patient is ready." 

Dr. Warren began to operate, proceeded quickly, in jive minutes had finished. From the patient came no cry of pain, no agony of distress, only slight move­ments, mumbled words as from one who stirs on the borderland of sleep.... 
"This, gentlemen," exclaimed Surgeon Warren, "is no himibug." Awake, Gilbert Abbott said, "I felt no pain." 
So, in part, had TIME been published in October, 1846, would TIME have reported the first public demonstration of ether as a sur­gical anesthetic. So, too, would TIME have reported how one Dr. Crawford Williamson Long, of Georgia, came forward later saying that he had used ether four years previous, had given it up as impractical.... So, too, would "TIME have reported the bitter persecution that came to Dentist Morton when he patented his discovery as "Letheon"; the seizure of "Leth-eon" by the U. S. Government for its own uses; the claims of Dr. Charles T. Jackson, the Bos­ton chemist from whom Dentist Morton had obtained his ether; the division of the Paris Academy of Medicine's 5,000 franc Monthyon Prize for 1852 between these two, with Morton proudly refusing his share; the long Congres­sional investigations resulting in nothing, and Dentist Morton's death in poverty in 1865. 
 cheap sensationalism and windy bias, 
turn increasingly to publications edited in the historical spirit. These publica­tions, fair-dealing, vigorously impartial, devote tliemselves to the public weal in the sense that tliey report what they see, serve no masters, fear no groups. 






TIME 
The Weekly Newsmagazine 
YEARLY SUBSCRIPTION tS : 203 EAST 42nd STREET, NEW^ YORK CITY : 15 CENTS AT ALL NEWSSTAND? 
24 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, 19S1 
Ray Tillman, Secretary of the To­ledo Club sent in a flock of Notes for the ALUMNUS. One of them was the news that PHIL TOMPKINS, '29, is the papa of an eight and one half pound baby girl. Mr. and Mrs. Tompkins are residents of Toledo. 
Mr. and Mrs. KARL F. JOHNSON, '29, are the parents of a son, bom September 10. The baby has been named John William. 
Mr. and Mrs. AL McGANN, o. s. '21; Elected '29, have a daughter, bom September 27. 

r Deaths 
The ALUMNUS regrets to an­nounce the death of BASIL J. SOIS­SON, '13, who died July 11, at his home in Connellsville, Pa., following a two week's illness from a heart condition. Mr. Soisson had been critically ill last winter from pneu­monia and after he recovered suf­ficiently to be out, he went to Florida. However, he never completely re­gained his health and his weakened condition brought on the heart at­tack, it was said. 
Mr. Soisson was bom in Connells­%Tlle in 1892, the son of the late William F. and Jennie Lang Soisson. He was a resident of Connellsville all his life. At the time of his death he was practicing law in the firm of McDonald, Cray & McDonald. 
He is survived by his wife, Mrs. Kathryn Cochran Soisson. There are no children. Besides his wife he is survived by nine brothers and sisters. Joseph Vincent and I«on J. are grad­uates of Notre Dame, the Classes of '26 and '13 respectively. Mr. Soisson was a member of the Pleasant Valley Country Club, Uniontown Country Club, the Duquesne Club of Pitts­burgh, Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion and the Knights of Columbus. 
Interment was made in St. Joseph's cemetery, Connellsville. 
A letter sent to WILLL4.M JO­SEPH McGRATH, '20, Chicago, 111., was returned to the Alumni Oflice with the notation "deceased." No de­tails concerning the death of Mr. Mc­Grath have been received by the Of­fice. 
NORBERT ENDRES, '26-27, was drowned July 5 in the Ohio river. Mr. Endres was a resident of Evans­ville, Ind., at the time of the tragedy. No further announcement has been sent to this office. 
We regret very much to announce the untimely death of ED BOHMER, '27, of Louisville, Ky. 
Mr. Bohmer died during the sum­mer as the result of an.operation for appendicitis. At the time of his death he was the very capable Sec­retary of the Notre Dame Club of Louisville. 
The ALUMNUS wishes to extend the sympathy of the Alumni Associa­tion to the following: WILLIAM T. GILMARTIN, '96, who lost his son William during the Summer. He was to have entered Notre Dame this Fall; to VINCENT SCHUH, '25, whose mother died June 9th, and who lost his father July 15; to KARL JOHNSON, '29, whose grandmother died during the summer. We also wish to extend our sympathy to PROF. ROBERT L. GREENE, whose son Robert, Jr., was killed in an auto­mobile accident during the summer, and to Prof. JOSEPH APODACA, '30, who lost his sister August 5. 


Engagements 

•­
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel H. Walker of 

Lowell, Mass., have announced the 
engagement of their daughter, Helen 
Gladys Walker, to Mr. JAMES F. 
HAYES, '24, of New York City. 
Miss Walker is a graduate of Trin­ity College, Washington, D. C. Mr. Hayes is connected with the Fifth A%'enue -4ssociation in New York City. He will receive congratulations in his offices in the Empire State Building, New York . . . (the world's largest office building.) 
From Toledo comes this announce­ment to break the hearts of many a lass. ARTHUR SUDER, '26, is to be married in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame on October 10, to Miss Mildred Hager, who is also from To­ledo. 
And then in the same breath we are told that JOHN HURLEY, '25, President of the Toledo Club, and member of the greatest Class ever graduated, will take the plunge some time in the Spring, tra la la. The girl is Miss Marie Hahn of Cleveland. 
And, believe it or not . . . here comes the announcement that JOHN KILKENNY, '25, is engaged to marry Miss Virginia Sturgis. The marriage will take place late in the Fall. The bride-to-be attended the University of Oregon, and is a member of Kappa Alpha Theta sorority. John is as­sociated with the firm of Raley & Warner, law firm, and was recently appointed city attorney of Pendleton, Oregon. 

Marriages 
Mrs. William Thomas Mooney an­nounces the marriage of her daugh­ter, Magdalen to PAUL CONAGHAN, '20, on Thursday, August 6, Holly­wood, Calif. 
JEROME DIXON, '22, of the Dixon Dixons was married to Miss Frances Kennedy, September 12 in Los Ang­eles, Calif. Mr. and Mrs. Dixon will make their home in Chicago. 
-MARK A. F00TE,'21,was married to Miss Ann Orr on September 12, in Chicago. After October 1, Mr. and Mrs. Foote vdW be at home at 6437 Kimbark Ave., Chicago. 

One of the summer weddings was that of Miss Margaret O'Brien, Al­bany, N. Y., and GERALD LYONS, '24, Rockville Center, Long Island, 
N. Y. 
The Misses Catherine and Mary O'Brien, sisters of the bride, were her only attendants. Edmund Baxter of Scarsdale attended Mr. Lyons as best man, and the ushers were Thomas Ronan and JOHN McMAHON, '28, of New York City, RONALD Mc-NAMEE, '24, of Ballston Spa, and B. Kenneth Webel of Albany. 
A cablegram from Rome brought the congratulations of Pope Pius XI at the close of the nuptial Mass in St. Paul's Church, Albany. 
Mr. and Mrs. Lyons left immedi­ately following a reception for 200 guests and will make their home in Rockville Center, where Mr. Lyons is now editor of the Nassau Daily Re­vieio. He was formely city editor of the Albany Evening Netvs. 
Miss Edith N. Boersig of Indianap­olis became the bride of GEORGE A. BISCHOFP, '25, Indianapolis, on August 24 at a private ceremony in the Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
Rev. LEO GORMAN, C.S.C, was the celebrant. Mrs. Helen Russell, Indianapolis, sister of the bride, and Robert McKenna were the only at­tendants. 
Mr. and Mrs. Bischoff left immedi­ately for a honeymoon trip to Mack­inac and the Straits. They will be at home at 3333 Kenwood Ave., Indian­apoplis. 
The ALUMNUS has received the announcement of the marriage of FRANCIS JAMES NAVARRE, o. s., '26, to the sister of GENE McKILLIP, '27. The wedding took place July 17 in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. Rev. John Ryan, C.S.C, '06, was the cele­brant. 
October, 19S1 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Mr. and Mrs.. Daniel .Kelly..an-, 
nounce the marriage of their daugh­
ter, Cecelia Catharine to WILLLAJH 
WADE SULLIVAN, 'Z&) on Thurs­
day, July 2, at Emmetsburg, Iowa. 
After August 15 Mr. and Mrs. 
Sullivan will be at home in Algona, 
Iowa. 
Miss Helen Byrider, daughter of 
Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Byrider, Cleve­
land Heights, became the bride of 
CHARLES A. MOONEY, '26, son of 
the late Congressman and Mrs. C. A. 
Mooney, Cleveland, at a ceremony 
Thursday, September 10, in the 
chapel of Our Lady of the Elms, Ak­
ron, Ohio, Msgr. Schreiber officiated. 
Fifty guests attended. 
Miss Ann Ruth Byrider, sister of 
the bride, was maid of honor; William 
D. Mooney, brother of the groom, served as best man. 
After the service a wedding break­fast was held at Portage Country Club for thirty-five guests. The couple left for a month's trip to the White Mountains, Lake Placid, N. Y., Mon­treal and Quebec, Canada. They are at home in Cleveland. 
Mrs. Mooney is a graduate of Mt. Marie academy, Canton, Ohio, and the College of New Rochelle, New Rochelle, N. Y. Mr. Mooney attended the Western Reserve law school after his graduation from Notre Dame. 
Miss Kathryn Walsh, daughter of Mr, and Mrs. Joseph C. Walsh, of Chicago, became the bride of GERALD McDERMOTT, '26, of Chicago, son of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas McDermott, of Cleveland, Ohio, at a ceremony performed in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. Rev. Eligius Weir, of Joliet, HI., read the service in the presence of twenty-five guests. 
Miss Dorothy Walsh, sister of the bride and JOHN J." SWEENEY, '26, of Chicago were the attendants. 
Immediately following the cere­mony a breakfast ws served in the Gold room of the Oliver hotel to twenty-five guests, after which Mr. and Mrs. McDermott left for Canada. After October 1 they will be at home at 1425 Farwell Avenue, Chicago. 
Mrs. McDermott attended St. Mary's College for two years and re­ceived her degree in 1929 at Rosary College, River Forest, III. 
The marriage of Miss Claudia E. Goetzinger, South Bend, to MER­RILL JOHN VAN SLYKE of Rome, 
N. Y., took place in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, July 7. Rev. WILLL4M LENNARTZ, C.S.C, '08, performed the ceremony in the presence of fifty guests. 
Following the ceremony a wedding breakfast was served in the home of the bride's mother. After a short trip Mr. and Mrs. Van Slyke will be atJiomeat J015.E. Miner. St., South Bend. 
HENRY E. HINSENKAMP, o. s. '26-28, Elected '31, was married to Miss Anna M. O'Keeffe, of Plainfield, 
N. J., on June 6. Mr. and Mrs. Hin­senkamp are living at 318 W. Seventh St., Plainfield, N. J. 
Prominent among the late summer weddings was that of Miss Martha Heidacher, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John J. Heidacher, of Price Hill, and WILLIAM HILLENBRAND, '27, son of Mr. and Mrs. John A. Hillenbrand, of Batesville, Ind., which was solem­nized August 18 at St. William's Church. 
Following the breakfast at Western Hills Country Club the bride and groom left for a European honey­moon of two months, and upon their return will make their home in Bates­ville. 
Mrs. Hillenbrand is a graduate of Mount St. Joseph College. 
OSCAR GARZA, '27, was married to Miss Leonor Lopez in the Cathedral of San Fernando, San Antonio, Texas, last June, according to an announce­ment received in the Alumni Office. 
Miss Freda Wert, South Bend, be­came the bride of JOHN J. NYIKOS, '27, in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame on September 19. Mr. and Mrs. Don Smith, South Bend, were the only at­tendants. Mr. and Mrs. Nyikos will make their home in Brookville, Pa. 
Announcement is made of the mar­riage of Miss Irma B. Elizabeth Thompson, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. George F. Thompson to DANIEL ALTON MOORE, '27, Oak Park. The wedding was solemnized Saturday, September 12 in the Ascension Church, Oak Park. 
Mr. and Mrs. Moore are making their home in Oak Park. 
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Jonathan Bandy announce the marriage of their daughter, Corinne Ursula, to Doctor NICHOLAS ARTHUR WENNENG, '27, on Wednesday, June 24. 
The wedding took place in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Dr. and Mrs. Wenning are at home at the following appropriate address: 3422 Love Circle, Nashville, Tenn. 
FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN,'29, Harris­burg, HI., now of 7 S. Mayfield Ave., Chicago, m., was married last Janu­ary. Mrs. O'Brien was formerly from Galveston, Texas. 
Miss Marv Catherine Hurle was married to ROBERT EDWIN B.4N­NON, '28, on Tuesday, August 8, in St. Charles Borromeo's Church, Louis­ville, Ey., according to an announce­ment received in the Alumni Office. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph McGarry an­nounce the marriage of their daugh­ter, Kathryn Patricia to WILLIAM VINCENT O-HAEA, '28, on Septem­ber 21 in St. Mary's Star of the Sea Church, New London, Conn. Immedi­ately following the ceremony a recep­tion was held in the Mohican Hotel, New London. 
Before her marriage August 4, Mrs. JOSEPH B. REEDY was Miss Helen DeClerq, South eBnd. The ceremony was performed in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame in the presence of the immediate families. Rev. PATRICK 
J. Carroll, C.S.C, '11, was the cele­brant. Miss Gwen DeClerq and Rich­ard Mclntjrre were the only attend­ants. 
Following a wedding breakfast in the home of the bride, Mr. and Mrs. Reedy left for a rtip through north-em Michigan. They are at home in Battle Creek, Michigan. 
Mrs. Reedy was graduated from Momingside college, Sioux City, la., and St. Mary's College, Notre Dame in 1930. She is a member of the Kappa Zeti Chi sorority and Pi Kap­pa Delta National Honorary Forensic fraternity. 
Mr. Reedy was graduated from Notre Dame in 1930, and is a mem­ber of the editorial staff of the Battle Creek Enquirer and Neios. 
Miss Hildegards Kurdys of South Bend became the bride of EDWARD MEREDITH, '30, at a ceremony per­formed July 4, in St. Hedwige's Church in the presence of the imme­diate families. 
Miss Helen Kurdys of this city and JAMES GREY of Oak Park were the attendants. 
Following the ceremony a break­fast was served in the Oldenberg Inn after which Mr. and Mrs. Meredith left for a trip through the East. They are at home at 493 Laurel St., Elgin, 
m. The bride is a graduate of St. Jo­seph hospital training school in 1926. 
Miss June Hoene was married to ARTHUR EDWARD PETERSEN, '30, on Tuesday, September 1, in Du­luth, Minn., home of the bride. 
Mr. and Mrs. Petersen will make their home in Evanston, HI., after October 1. 
Dr. and Mrs. John Vinton Corke announce the marriage of their daughter, Barbara Vinton to LAW­RENCE DOUGLAS DALEY. The ceremony was performed on June 24 in Los Angeles, Calif. 
The following items were extracted from the Class Notes for 1916. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1931 
"The 1916 Class Column has never carried an announcement that will be of greater interest to the members of the class than the announcement of the marriage of our Class President, EUGENE R. MCBRIDE. The wed­ding occurred on June 10, 1931, at St. Joseph's Cathedral, Hartford, Con­necticut. E. L. MCBRIDE (N.D. 1904­
08) brother of the groom, was best man. JAMES CURRY, LL.B. '14, and THOMAS CURRY, LL.B. '14, both of Hartford, and lifelong friends of the bride, were present at the wed­ding. The bride was Miss Florence Daly of Hartford, Connecticut. The groom vouches for the fact that she is a Notre Dame fan of long standing, and hence this can be said to be a real Notre Dame wedding. Reverend 
J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, Reverend 
E. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C, Rus Downey, Ray Humphreys, and other classmates of the groom, may send their congratulations to 821 Irvin Avenue, Pittsburgh, N. S., Pennsyl­vania. Gene is still in the advertis­ing business and is connected with Albert P. Hill, Inc., of Pittsburgh. Incidentally, McBride now has two nephews on the campus, Richard and Thomas Mead, both of Seattle, Wash­ington. 
"Another member of the Class of 1916 joined the ranks of the happily married on June 30, 1931, when the wedding of Miss Maurine Catherine Kennedy and THOMAS A. HAYES, 
LL.B.
 '16, occurred at St. Francis' Church, Norton, Kansas. The Class Secretary had the pleasure of enter­taining Tom only two weeks before the wedding, but was not favored with even an intimation that such an important event was so near at hand. 

C.
 BYRON HAYES, LL.B. '13, was present at the wedding. JAMES D. HAYES, LL.B. '17, will be remem­bered as another brother of the groom. Tom Hayes is manager of the Better Business of the City of Fort Wayne, and he and his bride are located in a new home at 1107 Westover Road, Fort Wayne, Indi­ana." 


Personals 

Before 1880 
Prof. Robert M. Anderson, '83, Circle-
ville, Ohio, Secretary. 

An article in an Albany, N. Y'. paper tells of an interview with jnCHAEL J. McCORSLiCK, a stu­dent at Notre Dame in '71, '72 and '73. Mr. and Mrs. McCormack will celebrate their fiftieth wedding anni­versary soon. They are residents of Albany and have two children, Mrs. William Haley, of Nashville, Tenn., and a son. Bob McCormack, president of the Bob's Candy company, of Al­bany. 
1895 
Eustace Cullinan, Sr., 860 Phelan Bldg., San Francisco, Calif. DANIEL P. MURPHY, of Madison, 
N. J., was a visitor of the Alumni Office during the summer. 
1902 
The Rev. LEO J. HEISER, C.S.C, OfF-Campus Director of Notre Dame, celebrated his Silver Jubilee of his or­dination to the priesthood at a solemn High Mass in St. Patrick's Church, South Bend recently. The Very Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C, presi­dent of St. Thomas college, St. Paul, Minn., who preached the sermon at Father Heiser's first Mass, gave the jubilee sermon. 
1904 
Robert Proctor, Monger Bldg., 
Elkhart, Ind. 

Classmates of Dr. LEO P. VANRIE will be pleased to know that King Albert of Belgium has conferred the Order of Leopold II upon Dr. Van Rie of Mishawaka, in recognition of his position among the Belgian-American population of St. Joseph county. The presentation was made at a banquet in the Hotel Mishawaka, Sentember 26 by Dr. Cyriel Vermeren, Belgian consul at Chicago. The ac­tivity of Dr. VanRie in the develop­ment of the community, his helpful­ness to members of the Belgian com­munity and his patriotic services during the war were the basis for the honor. 
1909 
E. P. Cleary, P. O. Box 356, Momence, HI. 

Did you fellows of '09 know that your classmate SOPHUS NEBLE is a police judge in Omaha, Neb? Neither did we. 
And did you know that PAUL R. MARTIN, until recently a resident of Chicago, is the new editor of the Indiana CatJiolic and Record, weekly Catholic paper in Indianapolis. Mr. and Mrs. Martin are living in Indian­apolis. 
1910 
Rev. M. L. Moriarty, 527 Beall Ave, 
Wooster, Ohio 

Something new in the way of re­porting Class Notes was used this month by the '10 Class Secretary. The following notes arrived from Wooster from Father Mike, and were sent a la Western Union . . . which bears out their cry "don't write, telegraph." 
1931 Sep 21 pm 10 43 CA555 56 NL—Wooster Ohio 21 Jas Armstrong 
Alumni Secretary Notre Dame Ind 
Pascal Onesto, Wooster, enters Notre Dame. Wooster almost ready to ask Club charter. Billy Ryan breezed in and out recently. Harry Miller has yielded his place at At­lantic City and has returned to work. Pat Walsh is designing more and more churches. The Secretary is pry­ing open a new school. See you at Southern California pow-wow. 
1911 
Fred L. Steers, 1666 First Nat'I Bank 
Bldg., Chicago, HI. 
Now we have started!! 
The first son of a member of the class of 1911 has registered at Notre Dame. Father, PETE DE LANDERO, now Honorable Professor Pedro A. de Landero. Son, Carlos, and he as­pires to obtain an engineering degree like his father. 
PAUL BARSALOUX, is wa.xing "fat" in the real estate business in Chicago, despite the depression. 
Word has been received indirectly from JOHN J. BRESLIN. He is still pounding away at the law firm in his native city of Pittsburgh. 
C L. U. CLEMENS still shows his old time "pep." Some of the confu­sion he caused opposing pitchers when he presided behind the bat in his college days is now applied to opposing counsel in court rooms. 
ARTHUR J. HUGHES, formerly Vice-President of the National Bank of the Republic of Chicago, is now engaged in taking care of a large and lucrative law practice in Chicago. His office is at 134 South LaSalle St. 
JUSTm J. "DUD" MOLONY is practicing law in his old home town, Crawfordsville, Indiana. At certain seasons he endeavors to deceive "his jealous mistress" by coaching basket­ball at Wabash, just to show he is accomplished in more than one line of endeavor. 
JOHN TULLY, formerly the Tully of the Bremer-TuUy Radio, has sold his interests in that business and is living on the fat while leisurely looking for more fields to conquer. 

A letter from HENRY J. KUHLE, Jr., informs us that he intends to be one of the hundreds of alumni who will cheer Notre Dame to victory at the Northwestern game. He is look­ing forward to visiting Notre Dame on the same trip. This will be his first visit since 1913. 
1912 
B. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 

"Messrs. BENEDICT J. KAISER, Allan H. Neal and Alfred Damian Reid who have long been associated with the late Carlton Strong in the practice of architecture, announce the formation of a firm for the purpose 
October, 19S1 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
• JOHN HANCOCK SERIES-



If you are not here to see them through College 
We have a plan ichich tvill make 
possible the completing of your 
children's education. 
T 

Jth e new John Hancock Family Income Provision, which can be applied to old or new standard John Hancock Life or Endo^vment policies of S5000 or more, guarantees your family, if you are not • here to see tliem through, an annual income of 12 percent of the amount of your life insurance until the children are of age. Then the full amount of the life insur­ance is paid to your estate or beneficiary. 
This Family Income Provision is available imder three plans: the 20-year plan, where the children are very young; the 15-year plan, where they are older and their period of dependency shorter; tlie 10-year plan, where the children have reached their "teens" and a still shorter period of family income Avill be needed. 
Talk to a John Hancock representative or, if you prefer, ^vrite for our descriptive booklet, "Income for the Family," to assist you in selecting the plan which is best adapted to your fanuly needs. 


LIFE INSURANCECOMPAHV 
OF BOSTON. MASSACHUSETTS 
JOHN HANCOCK INQUIRY BUREAU, 197 Clarendon Street, Boston, Massachusetts Please send me your booklet, "Income for the Family." 
Name. Address 

\A.G. 
•OVER SIXTY-EIGHT YEARS IN BUSINESS' 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1931 
of carrying on Mr. Strong's work and for the general practice of architec­ture." Offices are at 324 Fourth Ave­nue, Keystone Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. (This is NOT an advertisement.) 
1914 
Frank H. Hayes, Union Bank of 
Chicago, Chicago, HI. 
Captain F. P. MULCAHY piloted one of the marine corps amphibian planes dispatched to British Hondu­ras from Nicaragua during the re­cent hurricane at Belize, according to a newspaper story in the Chicago 
Tribune. 
1916 
Timothy P. Galvin, 708 First Trust 
Bldg., Hammond, Ind. 
WILUAM E. BRADBURY, LL.B. 
'16, continues to distinguish himself 
in his home community of Robinson, 
Illinois, where Bill is practicing law. 
Bill was selected to deliver the prin­
cipal address at the Memorial Day 
services held at Robinson this year, 
and the columns of the newspapers 
of his locality are most ilattering in 
their praise of the splendid oratory 
which Bill exhibited on this occasion. 
Of course, this is no surprise to his 
classmates who recall the many con­
tributions which Bill made to the or­
atory in Sorin Hall in the old days. 
The old friends of A. A. (RED) McDONELL, will be pleased to know that he is located at 1411 Merchants Bank Building, St. Paul, Minnesota, and that he is kept quite busy look­ing after four children. 
In spite of the fact that RAY­MOND J. KELLY has two boys and two girls who have first claim on his attention, he finds a great deal of time to devote to the American Le­gion of Michigan, of which he was State Commander last year. Ray is practicing law in Detroit and is Sec­retary of the Detroit Bar Associa­tion. His office is located at 1307 Majestic Building, Detroit. 
GEOVEE F. mLLER, staff pho­tographer of the 1915 Do7)ie, is lo­cated at 311 Alexander Street. "Stub­by" regrets the fact that he does not often see many of his classmates, but he has been able to keep up con­tact with JAKE ECKEL, PHIL GOOLEY, JOE MILLER, FRED PEAXATOWSKI, RAY McADAMS and TOM O'CONNOR. 
GEORGE DEWALD McDONALD, 
LL.B. '16, Varsity Debater and Sorin Hall pole vaulter of other days, is now located at 162 North Citrus Ave­nue, Los Angeles. DeWald is en­gaged in business under the firm name of Hallenscheid & McDonald, wholesalers and distributors of bath­room accessories and hardware spe­cialties. BREEN MCDONALD of the class of '18, and a brother of De­Wald, is located in the San Francisco office of the same firm. 
Incidentally, DeWald is now the father of three children. 
JOSEPH M. (MIKE) McGRATH, who will be remembered as one of the old Rochester crowd, is no longer a neighbor of the Class Secretary at Hammond. Mike is now located at 133% Monterey Street, Terre Haute, Indiana, where he holds a responsible position as mechanical engineer for the Commercial Solvents Corporation. 
EOBERT C. CAER, Ph. B., '16, 
A. M. '17, who will be remembered as one of the real students of the Class of 1916 is married and living at Ottawa, Illinois, where he is en­gaged in the practice of Law with offices in the Central Life Building. 
C. I. KEAJEWSKI, has become one of the leading architects of Dubupue, Iowa. "Casey" is the proud father of three children and I know that he will read the account of Gene Mc Bride's wedding with interest, because he wrote the Class Secretary some time ago asking for information con­cerning McBride. 
J. A. McCAETHY, B.S. '16, is now a busy and prosperous doctor located at 607 East 119th Street, Whiting, Indiana. Jerry is doing some notable surgical work and is a member of the staff of St. Margaret's Hospital, Hammond, St. Catherine's Hospital, East Chicago, and the Methodist Hos­pital of Gary. Whiting is on the direct route from South Bend to Chi­cago, and Jerry will be happy to have his classmates call upon him so that he can display his two boys and prove to the visitors that they are both "Rockne-minded." 
1917 
John U. Riley, 244 Washington St, Boston, Mass. 
JAMES D. HAYES has been ap­pointed head attorney of the Admin­istrator's Appeals Group, Solicitor's Office, Veterans' Administration in Washington, D. C. 
1918 
John A. Lemmer, 1110 Eighth Ave, Escanaba, Mich. 
R. J. DUNN, has been promoted from assistant secretary in charge of the New England claim department of the Ltmibermen's Mutual Casualty Company to second vice-president of the organization. 
Here is a little dope for you that I got this summer while attending Teachers College, Columbia. 
Father FRAN BOLAND, '18, did graduate work in Economics at Co­liunbia this summer. He will be vice-president of St. Edward's College, Austin, Texas, the coming year. 
JOSEPH L. RAFTER, a graduate of Notre Dame Law School, class of '30, and who taught at Notre Dame in 1920-21, received a degree in Pub­lic Law at Columbia University in Jime and was doing graduate work in law at Calumbia. 
1919 
Clarence Bader. 650 Pierce St, Gary, Ind. Classmates of MAURICE CAR­ROLL, Kansas City, ''fill be pleased to leam that the drawings of the proposed Field House used in connec­tion with the Rockne Memorial cam­paign were prepared by Maurice Carroll who, according to an annouce­ment by Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, President of Notre Dame, at Commencement time, offered to dis­count the usual architect's fees and do the work for cost. Mr. Carroll is associated with Chester Dean, Kansas City. 
1922 
Gerald Ashe, 1024 Monroe Ave, Rochester, N. Y. 
WILFRED J. RILEY and WIL­LIAM A. A. CASTELLENI have opened publicity offices under the firm name of Riley-Castellini, in Room 166 Hotel Gibson, Cincinnati, Ohio, where they are prepared to handle complete publicity and promo­tion campaigns. 
Wilfred Eiley is former Editor-in­chief of The Billboard, international theatrical newspaper published in Cincinnati. Previous to coming to Cincinnati he was New York dramatic critic of Tlie Billboard. Besides these positions he has served in various editorial capacities on the Associated Press, Wall Street Journal, New York Times, Boston Evening Amer­ican and the South Bend Times. 
William Castellini was formerly a reporter on the old Cincinnati Com^ mercial Tribune and the South Bend Neios-Times. He will be remembered by classmates as the winner of the Gold Burse for Excellence in Jour­nalism at his graduation from Notre Dame. 
We are pleased to know that Hunk Anderson was released from Mayo Brothers' Hospital, Eochester, Minn, Aug. 6th, after a hard but successful battle with meningitis and appendici­tis. Hunk has lots of real work ahead of him and we are with him, lose, draw, or no contest. 
Of special interest to all our class­

October, 19S1 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
mates is the wedding of Mr. Jerome Dixon to Miss Frances Kennedy which was held at Saint Brendan's Church, Los Angeles, Sept. 12th. Gene Kennedy, brother of the bride, served as best man for the groom. Formal notice of the marriage prob­ably appears elsewhere in the ALUM­NUS. May we offer congratulations to Mr. and Mrs. Dixon. 
Lest we forget while offering con­gratulations. Chuck Foley and Steve Carmody have taken little or no stock in the depression and have assumed the title of husband. The Foleys live in Bums, Ore., and the Carmodys in Elmhurst, 111. 
In response to appeals from this department for information concern­ing some of our wayward members, an unconditional surrender was re­ceived from Kenn Nyhan. By the way, Kenn is Assistant Prosecutor of Lucas County, Ohio whose county seat is Toledo. Kenn says he will be more than pleased to welcome his old friends (unofficially, of course) at the Court House. At present Kenn is having a couple months vacation to recuperate from hay. fever. What a life! 
Vine Hanrahan after having made a trip around the world and spending a year in Venezuela with the Stand­ard Oil Co., has come to the conclu­sion that there are worse places than the home town of Buffalo. Vine is associated with Biff Lee in the insur­ance business. Biff being Buffalo rep­resentative of the Phoenix Mutual In­surance Co. 
Father George Fischer, C.S.C. is now assistant at Blessed Sacrament Church, Rochester. We mourn with George over the loss of his father who passed from this life last spring. 
Doctor Dan Sexton of St. Louis re­cently completed a special five weeks course in diagnosis at a Brookline, Mass. hospital. After the completion of the course, Dan in company with his brother who is also a doctor, took a motor trip through New England and Quebec before returning home. 
Father Bob Gallagher was recently commissioned chaplain with rank of first lieutenant in the Army Reserve Corps. Father Bob is still at St. Theresa's Church, Toledo. One of our reporters recently saw him and declared him to be in excellent condi­tion despite added responsibilities. 
We leam that Doc Hughes, who was Best Man at Chuck Foley's wed­ding, was a huge success. 
Fred Dressel is in the hotel busi­ness in Columbus, Neb. 
Bill Haskins enroute from Elkhart to New York City during June, made a brief stop in Rochester to renew acquaintances. Bill was accompanied by Mrs. Haskins and daughter Joan. 
1923 

Paul Castner, Studebaker Corp., South Bend, Ind. 
Rev. JOHN JOSEPH CAVA­NAUGH, C.S.C, was ordained to the Priesthood on Wednesday, June 24, 1931 and said his first Solemn Mass Sunday, June 28 at ten o'clock at St. Paul's Church, Owosso, Michigan. John's classmates wish him many happy years in the service of his chosen profession. The '23 fellows who saw Father John at Commence­ment are glad to report that he is still the same old John. He is spend­ing this year in Rome, Italy, and we are all following his career eagerly and will look forward to seeing him again at Notre Dame. 
1924 

James F. Hayes, 358 Fifth Ave, New York City 
The Secretary sends in this: 
"Dear Jim: 
If your radio set is not strong you may not have heard about the en­closed. (Announcement of his engage­ment—listed elsewhere in this maga­zine.) They are shouting it from the rooftops here and, as WooUcott would say 'there is dancing in the streets .. . 
"You can't say I haven't sent you at least one alumni note this year . . . "Put it on file for the new ALUM­NUS. How are all your family ? You great big example setter! (See Haley. ED.) 
Yours, Jim Hayes." This from the Chicago Herald-Examiner: "You'd better keep your eye on Charles Buttenvorth. He is destined to have a spectacular career in First National pictures. Mr. Butterworth's last picture that every­body on the First National lot is talking about him. 
"He will now play the featured role in 'Merry Wives of Reno.' Robert Lord's story which he is directing." 
TOM COOKE was seen on the streets of South Bend October 1, by one of the youneer Professors whose last name is RYAN and whom the fellows call JOE. 
Of course you know that VERNON RICKARD plays the part of a priest in the new picture "The Spirit of Notre Dame." 
BERNIE "WINK" WINGERTER and TOMMY FARRELL are back ac­cording to our correspondent in the East. 
1925 John W. Scallan, Pullman BIdg., 79 E. Adams St., Chicago, HI. 
EDWARD J. RYAN writes that BOB HOWLAND and wife stopped in to see Ed last month. Bob has been promoted to first assistant ad­vertising man for the Southern Pacific lines, and is being sent to Mexico this month by the road. 
HERM CENTUVRE sends in a long letter with some dope on some of the boys. After giving us the devil for not changing his address he settles down to some real serious Class noting. 
"When I saw you two years ago this fall my headquarters were in New York. Time was so short that little opportunity was available to converse with many of the old boys. I saw JOHN BAETLEY and JIM HAYES once and JOE VERGARA and TIM MURPHY by chance. Tim was with his wife admiring show windows. 
'One interesting compensation for travel last fall was my meeting with "LUKE" WALSH in the hiUs of Western Pennsylvania. The Chevro­let was running low on gas when I stopped near St. Mary's, Pa. "Luke" restored the tank to good level, told me a deer hunting (Ed's note: Note spelling) story, and after recalling some of the highlights of 'track* con­ditions, bade me good luck on my trip to Harrisburg. 
"There I met TOMMY GOSS and PAT CANNY, former bo.xer who was battling a legal opponent of the Erie Railway. Goss, as I recall, is a rep­resentative for a Chicago firm deal­ing in textiles of some particular type that I have forgotten. 
"JOHN BARR from Pittsburgh surprised us last spring by relaxing a few days in Detroit after a long trip through the South. Generally, or rather, it is uncommon to meet \vith a traveler who can rest more than a day or so when he knowns that his command is to Go, is ever in his ears. The South, however, seems to teach people the importance of living in spite of all our hurry. 
"O yes, met GENE OBERST in Richmond last October. He and I brought some springs for use_ on his line charging apparatus for his team —Washington and Lee. Now, I understand he is in Buffalo, which re­minds me that I owe a number of letters to friends there, particularly PAUL HOEFFLER and EDDIE LUTZ. 
"Jim, hope this recollection of travel activities does not slacken your efforts to guide subsequent alumni issues to my present address. Many thanks. 
HERM CENTUVRE 
730 Whitmore Road, Apt. A 7 
Detroit, Mich. 

THE NOTBE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1931 
1926 Dr. Gerald W. Hayes, 38 N. 12th St., Newark, N. J. 
W. WADE SULLIVAN even though he is a newlj-wed finds time to drop a note to the Office with some dirt on the boys. Wade says: 'Saw EDDIE BARRY when we were in Chicago and of course mv cousin, JOHN P. SULLIVAN and TOM DONOVAN, but no one else. 
"N. D. lias certainly changed in the last few years. It was my first trip back since I was graduated Magna Cum Difficulty in '26 . . . Things are pretty tough out here in Iowa, but nothing to what it is in the cities. (Ed's note: And how the Alumni Sec­retary knows it.) We'll always have enough to eat and a place to sleep which is more than a lot of them have in the cities. 
"Haven't got settled yet in our new house . . . will be a week or so and then I'll seem more married. The wife is a sister of ED IfELLY of Emmetsburg who went to N. D. in '20 or '21." We are sure that Wade's classmates send their congratulations and we hope he and Mrs. Sullivan will pay us another visit soon. 
The Rev. RAPHAEL MICHAEL MAHER was ordained to the Holy Priesthood on May 30, last, at the Church of the Imamculate Concep­tion, Colfax, Iowa. May he enjoy many years of success and happiness. 
ALLEN M. FOLEY is one of the newer lawyers practicing in St. Jo­seph county, having been admitted recently in circuit court. Al has been operating an insurance adjustment bureau in the Union Trust Building, South Bend for four years. 
A letter the latter part of July from ED HARGAN says that he is out of touch with the gang around Belleville, N. J. Ed says that TOM SHERIDAN, ex-roommate, is living in Brooklyn. 
1927 
Ed. DeClerq, 8126 Drexel Blvd., Chicago, 111. 
JOE O'DONNELL wants to know what will happen to the '27 Class Re­union if we don't get started pretty soon. Everybody plans on being at Notre Dame for the event and bring­ing another '27 fellow along. Then let the Reunion take care of itself. 

PHILIP E. DOELL is in the paint and lacquer division of the Pittsfield Works of the General Electric Com­pany. We hear he was married about a year ago. 
A. A. PERSYN is stiU with the As­sociated Oil Company at Associated, 
Calif., and is still enjoying his work. 
MAURICE "PAT" COHEN is teaching High School in Taunton, Mas.s. 
BILL COYNE is looking at the world through ROSE colored glasses. Maybe that is why he spent the Sum­mer in Chicago . . . well, most of the Summer anyway. 
1928 
Louis Buckley, Box 73, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Following is more of the famous '28 Chain Letter which has made Glass Note history. The Editor re­grets that space prevents him from publishing everything that this Class Secretary sends in, as promptly as it is reported to this Office. 
GEORGE BYRNE was a visitor on the campus this summer and brought news concerning the '28 men in New York. George is with the New York Central and seems to be very pros­perous. At least one would think so if one visited his room at the La-Salle while he was here. But then again he was in Canada just before he stopped here so that might ac­count for his apparent prosperity. George gave me the following notes about the New York gang. LAYNE and CONJIEY are still together. Walt is writing for the McPadden publica­tions, and Jim is still in the bond game with Munns and Winslow. LARRY CULLINEY holds forth with the Guaranty Trust Co. ART FITZ­GERALD has finished Harvard School of Business Administration but has 
been unable to sever all his connec­tions with Boston society. AL DUFFY is with the law firm of Rawe & Kramer. AL T.4.YL0R has finished Pordham Law and is in. the office of Samuel Untermeyer. VIC FISHER is in the engineering department of the N. Y. C. George referred to DON CORBETT as the democratic leader of Rochester. Don is practicing law there. JOHN STEWART, who left our class his last year for a blond and Columbia, is now married and a father. John is on the Journal Amer­ican in Rochester. JIM HARTLEY is in Jersey City with the American Can Co. STAN GRINAGER and his wife and baby were here long enough so that Stan and myself talked over Freshman Hall days. Stan is located in Fergus Falls where he is connected with the Northwestern Woolen Co. 
BOB CAPESIUS dropped a note from 3821 N. Damen Ave., Chicago, m., stating that J. D. MURPHY is located in Georgetown, Pa. Joe has been ill since graduation but is re­cuperating in the Pennsylvania moun­tains. Drop us a line once in a while Joe and remember we expect you to be all 0. K. again in '33 when we will see you at our reunion. 
JOE LANGTON has changed his location to Oak Park where he is with the Oakwood Tire Co., 544 Madi­son St. He is staying at the Oak Park Club Annex along with ED Mc-SWEENEY, CHET McDONALD, JIM SOLON and TOM O'NEIL. I saw a few of the '28 fellows this summer. I found BOB KIRBY in In­dianapolis. He is the same old Bob even though he is a married man, and undertaker. It is rather difficult to imagine Bob in either of these roles but there he was in both. Bob plans to be more active at our re­union in '33 than he was in Chicago two years ago, when 50 of us got to­gether. Those of you who were there certainly must be looking forward to '33 after this information. Bob says that he sees JOHN DAVIS quite often. I saw HENRY HASLEY at the K. of C. Convention at French Lick Springs. Henry is still practic­ing law in Fort Wayne and is Grand Knights of Fort Wavne Council, K. of C. I visited VINCE WALSH in Monticello, 111. Vince has a fine farm 
there which is under the supervision of the University of Illinois, College of -Agriculture. TOM WALSH came to Vince's place from Macon, HI., to say "hello' and to relate his experi­ences teaching High School in Macon. Tom has a better sense of humor than ever, so you can imagine how entertaining his story must have been. I laughed almost as hard as I did when Sexton fell down stairs in Freshman Hall. I saw JOHN CAR­ROLL in Springfield where he is in the contracting business. John sur­prised me with the news that he is the father of a baby boy. 
I found HAYS MURPHY looking as fine as ever. He graduated from Northwestern Law School a year ago and is now in the prosecuting attor­neys office in Rock Island. 
JOE BRANNON holds forth at 162 
E. Superior, Chicago. Joe is back with Sears Roebuck in the advertis­ing department. 

I spent some time in Rochelle, 111., with VINCE CARNEY. Vince has sold his race horse coat now and has become a very conservative clothing dealer in Rochelle. I was in Dixon, m., long enough to sav Tiello' to PAUL FREY. Paul surprised me the same as did John Carroll by inform­ing me that he is a married man and also a proud napa. Paul is in the office of Dr. D.A.VE MURPHY, '25, taking care of the pharmacy depart­ment of his business. Paul informed me that RED LEAHY is in Chicago and that he is father of a little red head. On my return from my annual trip to Canada my wife stopped in 
October, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Detroit to see GUY LORANGER. Yes, Guy used to visit Mishawaka during his college days. We found Guy just the same as ever. He is studying medicine in Detroit. He promised to be back for the reunion in '33. Two of the '28 fellows are on the campus this year to greet the '28 men who return. JOHN FRED­ERICK is back as assistant coach. Dr. ANDY BOYLE is back as in­structor in the department of chem­istry. BILL JONES, who had one year up on Father Sorin, as far as campus residence is concerned, is coaching at Mount St. Charles Col­lege in Helena, Montana. 
Those of you who have the chain letters should return them by Nov. 1st., so I can continue them in the next issue of the ALUMNUS. 
And, by the way, if you are back for a game remember that head­quarters for the Class of '28 is at your Class Secretary's home at 718 
E. Corby. 
JOHN T. CULLINAN announces association with Mr. John A. Cornell for the general practice of Law in the Bridgeport-City Trust Bldg., Bridge­port, Conn. 
WALT GAFF, ex '2S, is Harbor Master for the Port of Fall River. 
CHARLEY RILEY of Indianapolis is the Head Coach at the University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, N. Mex. 
MAURICE B. CONLEY has com­pleted his course in the study of law at the Albany Law School, where he won honors in the debating team and also participated in a debate by radio with Union College, Schenectady. 
TURK KELLY attended New York University this past Summer. 
PAUL BRUST spent the summer in Europe. We received a card from him when he was in Scotland. 
BARNEY ZIPPERER is associated with Guamieri & McVicker, attor­neys at law in Warren, Ohio. Barney says he manages to keep plenty busy but never too busy to think about Notre Dame and the old crowd. He would like to hear from some of the gang at his business address. 
1929 

Joseph P. SIcNamara, 231 Wisconsin St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
With no letter from the Class Sec­retary, the medium in the Alumni Office takes pen in hand, so to speak, and jots down a few notes. • 
MARTIN O'PHELAN, former St. Thomas basketball star, has been ap­pointed to a newly-created post of full-time manager of athletics at the Ascension club, Minneapolis. For the past two years O'Phelan has been in charge of the recreational center in Hamilton, Ohio. 
HARLEY McDEVITT has just re­turned from Europe. (Ho hum! Rich people.) 
BUD McMORROW ivrites from New York: "I don't see much of the Notre Dame boys around the big town, except for GEORGE CRON­GEYER. He seems to be doing mighty well in the insurance busi­ness with JOHN BALFE, '20. One day last week I ran across JERRY PARKER, '30, trying to do a dirty job on Child's at 6th Avenue and 31st Street. Child's gives one all he can eat for sixty cents and Jerry was sure running a marathon. Give my regards to JOE McNAMARA when you see him." 
ANDREW MULREANY and .A.R­THUR J. GALLAGHER, '30, are in the novitiate at Notre Dame. 
JOHN V. HINICEL received a Mas­ter of Science degree at the School of Journalism of Columbia nUiver­sity in June. 
TOM CAREY, of 60 Wall Street, New York City visited the Alumni Office in July. He was flying from Kansas City to Chicago or from Chi­cago to Kansas City, we forget which. 
JAMES E. ICEATING of Conneaut, Ohio was admitted to the bar of St. Joseph County recently. He has es­tablished offices with Hugh P. Dun­nahoo, insurance agent in the J.M.S. Bldg., South Bend. 
FRANK HAVELICK, Jr., was graduated from the -4.ir Corps Ad­vanced Flying School in Kelly Field, Texas on June 26, 1931. 
GEORGE BEAMER who has been with the firm of Jones and Obenchain, attorneys, has transferred to the law firm of Parker, Crabill, Crumpacker and May. 
REYNOLDS SEITZ, former fourth floor Sorinite, has been doing tall things in his own quiet way at St. George High School, Chicago. Be­sides teaching English, he has also coached the debating and swimming teams. His squad of high-powered speakers won all of its nine debates in the Catholic high school league. As a reward for this clean sweep of the schedule, Seitz and his team were sent up to meet the best in Minne­apolis, St. Paul and Winona, all in Minnesota. The St. George team con­quered the Big Cities but faltered in the small town banked on the Missis­sippi. His swimming team finished in the Catholic High School league. St. George had the lead cinched, but two of its best water crawlers had to leave school just about the time 
the race got hot. Aside from jnocn­lating the Notre Dame system of winning games, Seitz is also wimiing himself credit's at Northwestern Uni­versity towards a Master's degree, which he expects to receive at the end of the summer. This year he has been assigned to all the senior classes in English at St. George." FRANK SIUDZINSKI, now of the Chicago News, lately with the New York papers, gets the box of cigars from Seitz for all this' blow. 
1930 

Bernard W. Conroy, 1038 Park Ave. New York City 
Bemie sends in some Class Notes from the Big Town this time. Here they are: 
'First of all I want you to notice that I have wandered from the Pitts­burgh District. I have been working for the Home Insurance Company of New York for the last few months. The work is very interesting and I intend to stay here for some time. 
DAN CANNON, who is living here with me, is now connected with 
G.M.A.C. CHARLEY SULLIVAN and JOE CANNY are also working with General Motors. 
"JACK CANNON, also known as "Big Boom" is continuing his Pre-Medical studies at Emory College in Atlanta. He is also line coach at Georgia Tech. 
"JIM WALSH of Dallas dropped me a note from Cornell University where he attended the summer school. Jim studied law at Southern Metho­dist last winter. If he continues the studies our Class will soon boast of another lawyer. 
"The other JIM WALSH of our Class is teaching at Brooklyn Prep in Brooklyn. 
"LAURENCE COTTER of Buffalo was here for dinner the New York alumni held a couple of weeks ago. 
"GEORGE WINKLER has been busy keeping the firm of John Wink­ler and Son going in Far Rackaway, Long Island. 
"BOB MULHALL is seeking a Master's degree in English at Colum­bia University. His address this year • is 1218 John Jay HaU. 
"JIM RIZER of Towanda is with • the McNamara Company of John Street, N. Y. C. 
"JIM O'ROURKE is also in the Life Insurance business, but he is with the Equitable Life Insurance Co. 
"LARRY CRONIN of Elmira has a position with the Lily-Tulip Cup Company here. 
"The New York Evening Post is 
32 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1931 
getting the latest news on sports in the Mid-West from their new corre­spondent Harry Sylvester. (Ed's Note: Harry is now at Notre Dame and paid the Alumni Office a visit today.) 
"DENNY SHAY is helping JOHN liAW to turn out a strong eleven at Manhattan. 
TOM KENNEALLY, who assisted Law last year, is now coaching at Eutgers. 
ED ELLSWORTH, JERRY PARK­ER, and MIKE BISHKO are to be seen in the Wall Street district. Ells­worth is TOth Gortz and Company, while Parker is employed by Blythe and Co. 
"I would like to hear from some 
of the fellows in the West and the 
Middle States. 
"I hope the fellows are responding 
to BOB EGGEMAN'S plan for the 
Living Endowment. 
"BILL DUNLEVY is an account­
ant for the A & P Company in 
Youngstown, Ohio. 
"CHARLEY SCHWARTZ is work­ing as a trader for the Continental & Commercial Bank in Chicago. 
"JOHN EEARDON has located in 
Lemont, HI., with the Connecticut 
General Life Insurance Co. 
So-long, 
BERNIE CONROY. 
FRANK DOAN, a boy who made good in the city, dropped into the Alumni Office the other day on his 
•way to Lima, Ohio, for a brief visit. He is "sold" on New York and looks as prosperous as ever. 

JAAIES J. WALSH taught English in a Brooklyn High School while he was working for his Master's degree at Columbia University. Jim asks to be remembered to Joe McNamara and Louie Buckley. 
WILLIAM DORE has been selected as secretary of the new state parole board, according to an announcement at the offices of Governor White, Columbus. 
1931 
John E. Boland, 1402 Linden, 
Scranton, Pa. 

No letter from the Class Secretary! . . . O well, we're not so fussy about those things as long as we have some dope. Here are some gleanings which have been picked up during the Sum­mer. 
A letter from JOE GUADNOLA in July informs us that Joe was con­templating taking a course out in Los Angeles this winter before taking up any professional work. Joe says, rightly too that there is no end to study these days, but it's best to have one's course as complete as pos­sible. 
GARCHIN FRIEDMAN is associ­
ated with George A. Schock, lawyer 
in South Bend. He was admitted to • 
the Bar May 5, 1931, 
Of course you knew that BILL 
SULLIVAN was a rookie with the 
Chicago White Sox this season. He 
was under contract to go with the 
Sox several months before his grad­
uation last June. 
A letter from J. H. ZUBER says: "Just weighed the wolf at the door and find that he has lost twenty pounds, he's so mal-nourished. In that condition he's harmless, so I'm enclosing the five spot for my alumni dues I couldn't afford while said wolf was hearty and thriving. Hurrah for the depression!" If everybody looked at the depression this way the Alumni Association would be rich. 
The following grads have passed the Illinois bar according to the good Dean. ROBERT DUFFY, FRANK DOWNS. JOHN MAHONEY, STAN­LEY NOWOTALSKI, ALVIN KOL­SKI, of '31 and WILTON SHERMAN, '30. 
RAY "SMITTY" SMITH writes from Henderson, Texas. Still the same ol' Smitty! 
As I sit here and bang away at these -Notes the-fellows.are.coming, back from the evening meal at the dining hall. They are following the 
N. D. band and are en route to the gym for a pep meeting before the opening game with Indiana Saturday. Prom the front porch we watched them file past with their red lights, singing the Victory March and the Hike song. And now, back at our desk, we can hear the cheers as the boys gather in the old gym. 
This has nothing to do with the '31 Class Notes, except, perhaps, the thought that some of you fellow^s wouldn't mind being in the parade to­night . . . maybe I'm wrong. Any­way, why not come back for a visit some of these days, or if you can't do that, why not drop a line to the Alumni Secretary, Notre Dame. We are always interested to learn what the fellows are doing throughout the country and your classmates are in­terested, too. If you don't want to write about yourself, write about the other fellow. Keep the '31 column alive and brimming with Class Notes. Don't lose track of the gang! 




NEW MEMBERS OF FACULTY 
Two priests and 11 laymen have been appointed to the faculty of the University of Notre Dame for the scholastic year 1931-'32. 
A further change in the faculty 
is the promotion of John A Scan­

nell as head of the physical education 
department succeeding James A. 
Masterson, who last year resigned 

to accept a similar position at St. 
Thomas college in Minnesota. 

The Reverend Julian Sigmar, new instructor at Notre Dame in the de­partment of philosophy, received his degree of doctor of philosophy from the University of Munich in 1921 and his doctor of divinity de­gree from the University of Tubin­gen in 1931. He studied at the University of Berlin from 1922 to 1925 and the University of Ham­burg in 1931. 
The Reverend John P. Lohan, who received his A.B. degree from the National University of Ireland, will teach religion. 
The department of history is augmented by the appointment of Thomas Bowyer Campbell, who is an alumnus of William and Mary college in Virginia and received a de­gree of bachelor of divinity from the Virginia Episcopalian seminary. 
J. Donald Watson has been added to the commerce school faculty as instructor in finance. He received his 
A.B. degree from Reed college in 1926 and his M.B.A. from Michigan in '31. Two of the men added are to in­
struct classes in economic history. 
The first, Richard Bohan, received 

both his BA. and his M.B.A. from 
the University of Washington. The 
second, Wesley C. Bender, completed 

his undergraduate work at Cornell 
university and received his M.B.A. 
from the University of Pittsburgh. 
John P. Turley, who received his 

M.A. degree from the University of Minnesota, will teach Latin. 
Foreign language instructors in­clude Dr. Paul Menge, who will con­duct classes in French and German, and Walter M. Langford, '30, instruc tor in Spanish, Menge, a doctor of philosophy, was a member of the sum­mer session faculty at Notre Dame. 
The other new instructors are Louis L. Hasley, who will teach English and who received his A. B. and MA. degrees from Notre Dame; Elvin R. Handy, physical education instructor who completed work for both his A3 , and MA. degrees at the University of Iowa; George Rohr­bach, instructor in mechanical engi­neering and graduate of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame with an M.E. de­gree in 1925, and Ronald Cox, in the department of elocution, an alumnus of Boston university with a A3 , de­gree, and holder of a professional de­gree from the Leland Powers School. 




