The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 


Zkf Notre Dame Alumnus 
Vol. 30 No. 2 MARCH-APRIL, 1952 
James E. Arnistrong, '25, Editor John P. Bums, '34, Managing Editor John N. Cackley, Jr., '37, Associate Editor Thomas W. Carroll, '51, Editorial Assistant 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class matter Oct 1, 1939. at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 
1912 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
<  .,  ••  OFFICERS  
.—%'  
R. CoNBOY SCOGCINS, '24  Honorary  President  
HARVEY G. FOSTER, '39  President  
RICHARD J. NASH, '23  First  Vice-President  
DR. MATTHEW W . WEIS, '22  Second  Vice-President  
WILLIAM C. SCH.«7TT, '10  Third  Vice-President  

DIRECTORS TO 1953 
HARVEY G. FOSTER, '39 202 Federal Court House, El Paso, Tex. RICHARD J. NASH, '23 1840 S. Kilbourne, Chicago 23. III. DR. MATTHEW WEIS, '22 7379 Northvioor, St. Louis 5, Mo. LESTER W . FOLEY, '24 Foley. Florida 
DIRECTORS TO 1954 
JOSEPH S. MORRISSEY, '28 49 Race St., Cincinnati 2, Ohio JOHN H . NEESON, JR., '35 167 Summit Lane, Bala Cynwyd, Pa. WILLIAM C. SCHMITT, '10 2765 N. W. Nicolai St., Portland, Ore. LUTHER M. SWYOERT, '27 6330 Hahman Ave., Hammond, Ind. JAMES E. .ARMSTRO.NG, "25 Director and Secretary 
DIRECTORS TO 1955 
J. RALPH CORY.V "22 1211 16th Ave., Moline, 111. JoH.N W. COURTNEY, '25 -tOl S. Highland, Dearborn, Mich. GALVIN HUDSON, '15 1515 Sherick Bldg., Memphis I, Tenn. JAMES G. MCGOLDRICK, "39 2675 H. Hudson Pkwy., Nen-York 63 
CHAIRMEN OF THE 1952 COMMITTEES 
HARVEY FOSTER Executive DR. WEIS Budget and Finance RICH.VRD NASH ..-. Foundation, Alumni Fund and Gifts JOHN H . NEESON ..::. Class Activities JOSEPH S. MORRISSEY Club Activities WILLIAM SCHMITT. Job Counseling and Placement DR. WEIS Religion and Citizenship JOHN H. NEESON Prestige and Public Relations RICHARD NASH Preparatory School Relations DR. WEIS Inter-Alumni Association LUTHER M. SWVCERT Resolutions 
1952 


Class Reunions 
fttne 6, 7, 8 

Classes Returning and Halls 
1902, '07, '12, '17—Howard '22—Morrissey '27—Lyons *32—^Morrissey '37_Dillon '42—Dillon '47—Dillon 

Friday, June 6 

(all times Central Daylight Saving) General Registration Law Building Class Registration in Class Halls Golf Tournament, Class Reunion Dinners, Smokers 

Sotuiday, June 7 

Class Masses, Pictures, Elections More Golf President's noon luncheon for 25-year class Campus and football movies in Washington Hall, 
2-3.30 p. m. Moot Court Finals, 2:30 p. m., and Law Cocktail Party, Law Building, 4-6 p. m. Annual Alumni Banquet. 6 p. m., dining hall— 
The Alumni Secretary, toastmaster Principal address, by Father John Cavanaugh Awarding of Golf Prizes—Trainer Hugh Burns Presentation of awards to members of 50-yr. Club Reports of Alumni Board Officers 

Sunday, June 8 

10:00 a. m.. Low Mass, Sacred Heart Church 
h 
1^ ^<, ^i^J^Ji 
p^*ii 
"%. 

""t-a- V 7 


TWENTY-NINTH U.N.D. NIGHT IS ON APRIL 21 

Radio Program Scheduled April 29; Glee Club on Dumont TV April 24; Father Cavanaugh's Los Angeles Appearance Topsi List 
Notre Dame Clubs throughout the world, including some 10 new Clubs, will meet on Monday, April 21 (or within the octave of that traditional date), to observe the 29th Annual Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Campus speakers, distinguished speakers from the Club's own area, and campus films, will mark the Club's local programs, dedicated this year as a special tribute to the prog­ress of Notre Dame under the admin­istration of its retiring President, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., whose term ends in July. Father Cavanaugh is recognizing Pacific alumni loyalty by a personal appearance in Los An­geles April 21. 
The academic, the cultural, the athletic, the scientific, the fine arts, the alumni and Foundation phases of the University — all of which have flourished under his patronage, will find reflection in a wide variety of programs headed by such familiar headliners as Deans Manion and Mc­Carthy, the Vice-Presidents of the University, members of the coaching and teaching staffs. 
Through the efforts of Rev. John 
H. Murphy, C.S.C, Vice-President of 
The May-June issue of the ALUM­NUS would like to have reports and pix of the Club observances no later than May 1 for proper editing. Have your secretary send them promptly to James E. Armstrong, editor. 

ame 

HARVEV FOSTER. '39. NEW ASSOCIATION PRESIDENT 
January Board Meeting Featnns Oiaaer for Father Cavaaangh and Appointment of New Conunhtces; laacaiii^ Board Work Reflected in Activity of Directors All Year Aroyad 
Pubh'c Relations, WGN-Mutual will originate a Notre Dame radio pro­gram on Tuesday, April 29th, and Dumont's network program, "This Is Music" is scheduled to feature the Notre Dame Glee Club on Thursday, April 24th, from WGN-TV. John 
LATE BULLETIN 

Thomas E. Murray, Atomic En­ergy Commissioner, was named the 70th recipient of the Laetare Medal Afarch 23. 
The announcement was made by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, President of the University, on Lae­tare Sunday. Mr. Murray, the father of eleven children (two of wluHn are priests), has been three times knight­ed by the Vatican. He is a Knight of Malta, St. Gregory and of the Holy Sepulchre. 
Mr. Murray was appointed to the Atomic Energy Commission in 1950 to succeed David LilienthaL He was bom in Albany, N. Y., on June 20, 1891. 
Full details of the award %vill be published in the May-June issue of the ALUMNUS. 
Noland, Glee Club soloist, will be a guest star on the Fred Waring show, Sunday, April 20th, according to pres­ent plans. 
The Mutual-WGN radio show on April 29 will be on WGN at 9:30 p. 
m. CENTRAL DAYLIGHT time, and on the Mutual network at 10:30.. "This Is Music" will be broadcast at 7 p. m. CENTRAL STANDARD time April 24. 
Harvey Foster, '39, now FBI i^ent in EI Paso, Texas, o£Bce, was elected President of the Notre Dame Alumni Association at the January meeting of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association, R. Conroy Scb^ins, '24, was named Honorary President. Vice-Presidents are Richard J. Nash, '23, Chicago; Dr. Matthew Weis, '22, St Louis; and William C. Schmitt, '10, Portland, Ore. James E. Armstrong, '25, was re-elected Executive Secre­tary. 
Primary concern of the Board was the 1952 basic program, with three major objectives: 100% alumni par­ticipation m the Tenth Annual: Fund, especially related to the Father Cav­anaugh Testimonial Fund; a record-breaking Universal Notre Dame Night on April 21; and a record-breaking Universal Communion Stmday on De­cember 7. 
Other important objectives consid­ered were the Club Presidents' Coim­cil in June; the Class Reunions and Class organization; a Notre Dame Family Communion Simday on Lae­tare Simday; the introduction of the Job Counselii^ Clinic idea as the New York Club has inaugiirated it as a program in other Clubs; the relation of alumni to the sustainii^ of Uni­versity enrollment through the Direc­tor of Admissions ofiBce; the continu­ing of prestige and public relations, and religion and citizenship, throu^ Club publicity and programs particu­larly; a ma""al for Class Secretaries;­and the improvement of the Notre ALUMNUS; the increase of activity by friends of the University through alumni interest and invitation. 
The next meeting of the Board will be held in conjunction with the Club Presidents' Coimdl and the Class Re­unions on June 5, 6, 7 and 8. 



1 Testimonial from the ilumni 
Address of R. Conroy Scoggins given Jan. 23, 1932 at TestimonUI Diiiiicr for Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, President of the Univeisty of Notre Dame. 
It is with mixed sentiments of deep spiritual gratitude and equally deep human regret that I as the retir­ing President of the 21,000 active members of the Notre Dame Alumni Association address you this evening at this testimonial dinner given by the Alumni Board for Notre Dame's great President, Father John Cavanaugh. 
During recent years our Association has grown at the rate of 1,000 or more alumni annually. '»Ve have 52 class secretaries, 117 local alumni clubs, and 237 City Chairmen of the Notre Dame Foundation. AVe have • been able to show this great progress because we have had the unselfish support and guidance of Father Cavanaugh. 
What do we think of Father Cav­anaugh? Our spiritual bouquet on Universal Notre Dame Sunday of 7,595 Masses, 7,490 Communions, and 10,489 Rosaries gives eloquent testi­mony of our love and devotion for one whose genuine priestly affection, gentleness, and proven ability we know so well. 
The Notre Dame ALUMKUS pub­lished six times yearly reflected the news of members of the faculty, alumni, and imdergraduates and I am quite sure that you have noted from time to time articles of great deeds done by our honoree whose influence over the lives of those that seek the truth has not been confined to the campus at Notre Dame. Ever^'where —North, South, East and West—his voice has been heard and his plead­ings barkened by those whose care is the mental and moral training of the youth of the world. 
With the help of this truly great priest, the Alumni Board of this great institution of learning through our committees has been able to be of assistance to the welfare of Notre Dame. Alumni financial support has become a major contribution. In 1947, with Father Cavanaugh's co­operation, the Association persuaded the University to form the Notre Dame Foundation. In 1951, the pre-
R. Cooroy Scoggins, now the Honorary President, congratulates the new Alunmi President, Harvey 'Foster, following his election on January ^23. Rev. John Cava­naugh, University President, congratulates them both. 
liminary Foundation Reports show 8,590 alumni gifts totalling $329,­
379.69. This is an all-time high in the number of alumni gifts. 
We are constantly seeking the full support of faculty and alumni. We continually keep before alumni and friends the need for both numbers of donors and amounts of contribution to meet the University needs. Our alumni association purchases a mini­mum of $300,000.00 of football tickets annually. We have 300 sons of alumni registered in school. We are contributing approximately $400,­
000.00 in tuition and fees each year. 
Why am I making reference to these various statistics? Because I think everyone here should know that we are convinced that God has been good to Notre Dame in that we have been blessed with outstanding admin­istrators who have helped us help ourselves. 
Father Cavanaugh is recognized as an educator, respected for his prin­ciples, emulated for his arresting zeal and enthusiasm, accepted and ad­mired in evei7 gathering and in every field of educational policy. 
Because of this kind of leadership, our Alumni Association and all oiir local alumni clubs are showing a new zeal and a new maturity of accom­plishment in their programs. In all the major objectives of the philosophy of our organization—in enrollment, working with Notre Dame, in pres­tige and endowment, seeking out Foundation prospects, moving into civic activities and alumni programs, the Alumni Association and the clubs were strong as never before. 
The Law Alumni Association and the Monogram Alumni Association are two strong supplementary alumni groups. 
Our association is working with the Director of Admissions. We are con­stantly contacting prospective stu­dents. We have helped with a bro­chure for prospective students to be accompanied shortly by a manual for 
alumni  for  preparatory  school  and  
personal interview  use.  
Sixteen  Notre  Dame  clubs  have  
active  or  cumulative  scholarship  

funds in operation. 
We are proud to call these accom­plished facts to your attention so that you may readily realize that Father Cavanaugh's dynamic leadership has given all of us a desire to go forward. We also take great pride in our alumni members who are members of the Associate Board of Lay Trus­tees, the Advisory Council on Science and Engineering, and the Advisory Comicil of the College of Commerce. The National Chairman of the Foun­dation and new President of the Board of Lay Trustees is our familiar outstanding alumnus Frank C. Walker of New York. 
Everyone realizes that when Father Cavanaugh became President of Notre .Dame in 1946 he was con­fronted with many momentous prob­lems but, being a man of faith and with true humility patterned after our Lady, he started the tremendous postwar expansion of Notre Dame. 
With courage sublime and faith imfaltering, with the full realization that this Coimtry needed free inde­fiendent institutions of higher educa­tion, he chartered the course that is 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

being followed at this time at Notre Dame. "He knew that many institu­tions were' not educating the whole man, and he feared that such an edu­cational system would disregard the spiritual side of man and be a danger­ous educational system that would educate Christians and graduate them from God. He therefore plunged the weight of his God-given gifts and tal­ents into the tremendous effort of making Notre Dame the outstanding University in the world. 
He and his administration made a decision to utilize Notre Dame's fa­cilities to the utmost in order to educate as many young men as would be humanly possible. Due to this decision, the enrollment at"-'Notre Dame has increased 62 percent during his term of office. 
It was evident to Father Cav­anaugh at the very outset of his ad­ministration that if the Notre Dame student body was to be increased, means must he found through' an expansion and development program for the physical expansion of the University and for increasing the meager $3,000,000 endowment of this privately-endowed University.. 
With this in mind, in the second year of Father Cavanaugh's admin­istration, ,the University of Notre Dame Foundation was organized in 1947 to coordinate gifts to the Uni­versity. Under Father Cavanaugh's leadership, the "Notre Dame Founda­tion launched a ten-year $25,000,000 program. 
During the past few years alumni and non-alumni friends of Notre Dame have given $7,000,000 to the University. These gifts include the Science Building, the E. M. Morris Inn, the I. A. O'Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building, and the Fred 
J. and Sally Fisher Memorial Resi­dence Hall. 
Father Cavanaugh and his admin­istration realized, as a result of Notre Dame's vastly-increased scientific re­search both during and following World War II, that the University's laboratory and classroom facilities were totally inadequate to house the enlarged Departments of Chemistry, Physics, and _ Mathematics. v.;.NBtre Dame was receiving an ever-increas-­ing number of research contracts from both government and private ihdusfry, and more adequate facilities were badly needed. 
One of the first projects of the University of Notre Dame Founda­tion was a nation-wide campaign among Notre Dame alumni and non-alumni friends to raise $1,750,000 for a new and modem Science Building. The campaign reached a successful conclusion in 1950, but since that time increased costs have forced Notre Dame to seek an additional $800,000 to complete and equip the building, which is scheduled for com­pletion in 1952. 
As a result of the rapid physical expansion of the University under Father Cavanaugh, the University of Notre Dame Foundation has laimched a "Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund," with a goal of $3,000,000 by July of 1952. The fund, designed as a tribute to Father Cavanaugh, will be used, through the improve­ment and expansion of campus utili­ties systems, to carry for^vard and complete the building projects in­augurated during Father Cavanaugh's administration. 
When Father Cavanaugh assumed the presidency of Notre Dame, only a few more than 100 students were enrolled in the University Graduate School. Very little financial assist­ance to such students, in the form of fellowships, research, or teaching as­sistantships, was available. 
By way of contrast and progress during Father Cavanaugh's adminis­tration, the University's graduate stu­dent enrollment quadrupled during Father Cavanaugh's tenure of office, reaching an all-time high of 450 graduate students during the 1950-51 schoolyear. During the current school-year, more than half of the graduate students hold graduate appointments of one kind or another, totalling nearly $300,000 per schoolyear. 
Today's figures reveal that during the past schoolyear the University brought in better than three-quarters of a million dollars under contracts, grants and fellowships, from govern­mental agencies, Foundations and in­dustry. 
Today, due in large measure to de­velopment during Father Cavanaugh's administration, the Notre Dame Grad­uate School comprises four Divisions -^Arts and Letters, Science, Social Science and Engineering. These four divisions include twenty-tviro depart­ments, of which twelve offer the doc­torate degree. 
Finally, two internationally-known 
Institutes have been cultivated and 
developed during the past six years. 
The Mediaeval Institute was estab­
lished in 1946 as a center for re­
search in the life and culture of the 
Middle Ages, and in 1950 institute 
status was given LOBUND (Labora­
tories of Bacteriology, University of 
Notre Dame), an institute for re­
search in the life sciences, in which 
germ-free animak are reared and 
used in seeking the solution of biolog­
ical and medical problems. 
All of you realize that time does 
not ftermit me to narrate all of 
Father Cavanaugh's great works. I 
was a student with Father John and 
I call him Father John—not with dis­
respect but with genuine affection. I 
have worked very closely wth him 
for the past three years and I ask 
you to behold a great priest who has 
pleased God. I will miss my close 
association with him. In his mind I 
have recognized the elements of 
genius; in his character the marks of 
nobility; and in his heart the strong 
passion of love which impels him to 
e.xpend himself in discharging the 
duties and responsibilities of his o£5ce. 
Father John, men and women all over the world have entrusted to you and the faculty of Notre Dame their lifetime investments—not in money but in their sons who are their future, Notre Dame's futiu«, and the futiwe of the world. Give them the best that is in you and you wll receive dividends beyond measure. You Father Cavanaugh are the shepherd of this • flock and it is our fervent prayer that God may in his goodness bless abimdantly both the shepherd and the sheep of Notre Dame. 
Snito Donates Books 

Two sets of the Works of William 
Shakespeare in extra illiistrated edi­
tions have been given to the Univer­
sity of Notre" Dame by Mr. Fred 
Suite, Sr., of Chicago, Illinois. The 
printer of both sets was the famous 
Scottish firm of T. & A. Constable of 
Edinbui^h and the Works have been 
appraised at $14,000. 
The sets contain hundreds of water 
colors as well as 1800 etchings, mezzo­
tints, steel, copper and wood engrav­
ings. Many of the plates used to il­
•lustra te -these volimies date-back to the early part of the 18th century. 
in one direction, plus St. Mary's stu­
dents and the wives of married stu­

1952 Football Ticket Plans 
By JAMES E. AIMSTRONG 
.Advance Sale Opens June 20, Closes July 14; Contributors to the Alumni Fund in 1951 Receive Preference; Two-Ticket limit; Blanks Mailed Prior to June 20; New Limitations 
This is Spring. But remember 

those dates. Sale opens June 20th, 
closes July 14. 
If you contributed " to the 1951 

Fund, or are a Religious, and have 
not received your Alumni Preference 
application forms by June 20, let us 
know. In the past, many alumni who, 
by moving or mailing address changes, 
did not receive their blanks, have 
waited until the advance sale was 
closed and adjustment was almost im­
possible, in spite of their valid claim. 
Serious Business 

We do not take this ticket busi­ness lightly. In the first place, the interest in Notre Dame football is one of the 

1952 SCHEDULE 

(and ticket prices, including tax) Sept. 27—Pennsylvania, there $5.20' Oct. A—^Texas, there 4.00 Oct. 11—Pittsburgh, here 4.80 Oc;. 18—Purdue, there —-" 3.60 Oct. 25—N. Carolina, here .... 4.80 Nov. 1—Navy, Cleveland 4.75,6.00 Nov. 8—Oklahoma, here ...... 4.80 Nov. 15—Mich. State, there .. 3.60 Nov. 22—Iowa, there 3.50 Nov. 29—So. California, here 4.80 
'Federal and city taxes included 
great common denominators of our aliunni association. Secondly, it is one of the great m^nets for the interest of friends. 
Thirdly, its financial aspects have been a vital factor in Upiversity de­velopment 
Fourthly, we realize that many alumni find in football games a very valuable business asset or social asset for themselires, which is perfectly logical and almost inevitable. 
So, in the consideration of the dis­tribution of football tickets, your Uni­versity, the Athletic Department, and the Almnni Association through its Board of Directors, does not approach the subject lightly or without full consideration of all angles. That per­fect satisfaction does noi result is simply an evidence of the growing pressures of the several segments of interest. 
Home Game Distribution 

The Alumni Section, plus a block of tickets allotted to the Monogram alunmi, and several hundred season tickets assigned prior to 1942, occupy the 14,000 seats in Sections 1 to 9 of Notre Dame Stadium, inclusive. However, only 4,000 of these avail­able to alumni lie between the goal and the 50-yard line; and of these 4,000, only about 1600 fall in the 35-50 yard-line area. 
The visiting team occupies an agreed upon block begirming in Sec­tion 10 in Notre Dame Stadium and usually numbering from a few thou­sand up to the maximmn—but with­out exception utilizing all the seats between the 50-yard and goal lines. In recent years, a block of seats for University administration has been carved from the upper rows of the Visiting Team Sections to relieve the pressure on alumni seats. 
On the West side of the Stadium, 5,000 students occupy all the seats between the 50-yard and goal lines 
am-H 

dents, and parents of students—cer­tainly not a "general public" classi­fication, and vital to the continuing lifestream of Notre Dame. 
Season Tickets 

The season ticket sections, Irom the 30-yard line well into the end of the Stadium on the West side with about 1,000 on the East side, is a source of some argiunent, since it is open to the public, though no new season ticket sales have been conducted in recent years, and none at all assigned on the East side since 1941, when alumni participation began to increase no­ticeably. 
The important points to remember about the season ticket section are: 
1.
 It is the only channel to rea­sonable seats open to friends of long standing. 

2.
 It has existed since the Stadium was opened in 1930, and most of the seats have been held continuously by families or businesses in the St. Jo­seph Valley. 

3.
 Many alumni occupy these seats. 

4.
 The season ticket section was a well-filled .financial pillar of Notre Dame revenue in yesirs when all other sections were often empty, even on part of the sidelines. Notre Dame obviously caimot evict old friends simply to make new. _ 


Geographical Limitations 

Since most away-from-home games find us with fewer tickets to apply to the alumni preference allocation, 
amS 
T-fitn-ia 
MTtll 
"-am-a 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 

ive feel that once more some geo­graphical limitations should be adopted. 
At this time, Michigan State, Penn­

sylvania and Texas indicate this step. 
The limitation simply means that only alumni in an area surrounding the game, and selected by alumni population, will receive the applica­tion blanks for these games. The areas indicated are wide, relatively — 18 States for the Penn game and 16 for the Texas game. Michigan State will be limited as it was last year, to the State of Michigan and only an imme­diate fringe outside, because the orig­inal ticket allotment is very small, and will become critical if the stu­dent trip is included. 
It is experience that most alumni far removed from a game do not plan to attend such games. Most of the ticket demand is for non-alumni friends or business acquaintances or for "trading" to increase nearby game ticket supply. While this is not condemned as either sin or crime, it obviously works an injustice against the actual neighboring alumni in a game area. Individual instances in which distant alumni will attend a game personally can be adjusted, as they always have been on advance explanation. 

General Use Blanks 

Applications for all games involving public sale will be sent to ALL alumni, about July 15th. These forms may be used for ordering tickets or, in the case of alumni contributors, additional tickets. They are filled after the alumni advance sale closes July 14, if tickets remain. 

Preference to Contributors 

May we repeat, ticket preference does not exist to secure contributions. Some yardstick is necessary in allo­cating a limited number of tickets. Contributions are the only yardstick the campus has. A contribution in any amount is all that is needed to qualify. All of us—^Alumni and Ath­letic and University staffs—will wel­come suggestions, and several are up for consideration this year. But in a long experience, the present system has produced, so far, fewer com­plaints and inequities than any pre­vious system, and under probably greater pressures of demand. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
REV. MAURICE E. POWERS, C.S.C' '33 
Rev. Maurice E. Powers, C.S.C, '33, has left Japan to become assist­ant commandant at the Army Chap­lain's School, Fort Slocum, N. Y. 
Father Morry, known to his troops as "The Fightin' Padre," holds the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel and served in World War II with the 12th Armored and 36th Infantry Di­visions in Europe. In the Korean conflict he served as Division Chaj>­lain with the 7th Infantry and with the 24di. 
Prior to his Korean service he spent two years in Berlin with U. S. occu­pation forces. 
His decorations include four for valor—the Silver Star, the Brotize Star with three clusters. Fr. Morry also wears five battle stars and a unit citation. 
"Red" Smith Honored 
Philadelphia's LaSalle College an­nounced on Feb. 7 that its annual "Collegian" Award is going to W. W. "Red" Smith, '27, whose syndicated sports column emanates from the New York Herald-Tribune. 
Smith accepted the honor at a tes­timonial dinner in the Pen and Pencil Club. "Red" is a native of Green Bay, Wis., and has worked on the Milwaukee Sentinel, the Philadelphia Record, St. Louis Star before joining the Herald-Tribune in 1945. 
 Th* ftesary ia CI«v«kiBd 
Ray T. Miller, '14, is the origiiiator of a 15-minute. radio program in Cleveland that won "Favorite Pro­gram" and "Favorite Cleveland Pro­gram" awards in an annual popularity contest run by a Cleveland paper. 
The program, originated by Ray and his wife, Ruth, in October, 1950, consists of the simple recitation of the Rosary, for world peace. It is broadcast from the chapel of St. John's Cathedral, seven ni^ts a week. 
It placed ahead of all comedy, va­riety, mystery and news programs in the heaviest balloting in the 22 years of the newspa|)er poll. 
Dennis J. O'Neill, '25, Cleveland advertising executive sent a first-hand report, which in itself is a citation for the "Rosary Hour": 
"The program was started a year ago last October, as a special feature for that month of the Rosary. At the end of the month it was to be dropped—in fact, was dropped for a couple of evenings, but demand for it prompted rescheduling. It has been a sustaining feature every evening since, including Saturday and Sunday. 
"Ruth and Ray Miller (probably not in the order named) conceived the idea and have consistently re­fused to commercialize it by admit­ting a sponsor. The mail count is high. Many of the letters tell of fallen-away Catholics going back to the Church, better family relatioru in mixed marriages, increased interest in the Chiuch on the part of non-Catholics. 
"From the standpoint of the Miller's Catholic Action, the signifi­cant fact is- not that the program, surprisingly, won the two top prizes, but that it would still be going, just the same, had it won none. But it must be gratifying to Ruth and Ray to have their tribute to Our Lady so well applauded." 
Ronon Addresses Greep 
Jim Ronan, '26, president of the Ronan Packii^ Co., Chic<^, recent­ly addressed the Industrial Relations classes in the Department of Eco­nomics at the University. 
His talk, on the "Responsibilities of Management in Industrial Rela­tions," stressed the need for applying the teaching of the Social Encydicals. 

Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund Needs YO U 
Principal Contribution of Notre Dame Alumni Is Participation; Fund Closes in July; f ive-Year Record Indicates Generosity in Amount, But our Job is The Participatian Story 
What Notre Dame gets in any 

given year is very important, especial­
ly in this critical era of still rising 
costs and still limited resources. 
And, a corrollarj', what the Notre 

Dame alumni give overs- year is im­
jjortant. 
Their interest in sustaining a full 

and representative enrollnient is im­
portant. 
Their faithful discharge of their 

identities as Notre Dame men, apply­
ing their training for moral and re­
sponsible leadership to their business, 
social, family, cultural and spiritual 
lives is most significant. 
But there is one program that will 

result in enrollment, prestige and en­
dowment, all at once. 
This is the participation by Notre 

Dame men in the Annual Alumni 
Fund in such large numbers that 
they represent an irrefutable en­
dorsement of all that the University 
was, is, and plans to be! 
This participation, in the early 

years of the Alumni Fund and the 
Foundation programs, has been en­
couraging. At the very outset it 
proved that the spirit of Notre Dame 
was strong enough to bring us com­
parative high ranking among the top 
10 colleges and universities. 
But we are far from the figure of the top school. Dartmouth, in 1951, presented the astonishing example of 92 percent alumni participation in its annual fund. It is true that they started much earlier than Notre Dame—^in 1913. And their organ­ization is a veteran one, their meth­ods traditional now in Dartmouth life. 
But what any other college or uni­versity can do in manifestation of interest and loyalty, Notre Dame can do. 
Participation by alumni in the An­nual Alumni Fund is the best sales point the University has in extend­ing its request for aid to others out­side the alumni. 
Much of the generous record of the Father Cavanaugh administration came because Father Cavanaugh could ]x>int to the excellent and tangible record of help which Notre 
« 
Dame was receiving from her alumni. 
We are now in the 10th Annual Alimini Fund period, the calendar year of 1952. 
We are also in the second half of the fiscal year, 1951-52, which has been dedicated to the Father Cav­anaugh Testimonial Fund, and for which gifts during this fiscal year will be allocated to the physical proj­ects essential to the rounding out of this great building program. 
What you give to this Testimonial, in amount, will be important and appreciated. 
But if we could set an all-time high in alumni participation in this 10th Annual Alumni Fund by July (even though it will extend till De­cember actually) we could make a gift to Father Cavanaugh that would exceed and be more lasting in its important example than any amount. 
And participation does not depend on amount. 
We have suggested repeat gifts dur­ing the year, since even the small gift adds up quickly when repeated fre­quently. 
But if you are pressed in any given period, just one dollar ($1) will serve to bring to us and to you the tremendous significance of en­dorsement, the rich value of par­ticipation. 
This is what we ask, then,—100 percent participation. In amount, as generous as circumstances permit, be­cause the requirements are great, and because we want the Testimonial to reflect in amount, too, the extent of our gratitude to another President of Notre Dame who has served un­selfishly for six epochal and demand­ing years. But remember: Any amount, since it represents you, is in 
itself a very vital gift. 
Here are figures compiled by the University Accounting Office and sub­mitted by Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., Vice-President in Charge of Business Affairs. They indicate the generous support that has been given to Father Cavanaugh during his ad­ministration, and explain how the great progress in plant and in edu­cational values has been made pos­sible without undue burden on stu­dent costs. They are a tribute to the generosity of alumni; to the generos­ity of friends who have joined alumni in advancing the University's pro­gram; and to business and industn­and government for their recognition of the high values of University re­search. 
This is a great record of aid, in relation to the history of the Univer­sity. But in relation to the opportu­nities of Notre Dame, it has only begun to meet them. 
So act for yourself immediately, in insuring your participation in both the 10th Annual Alumni Fund and the Father Cavanaugh Testimonial. Then make siu-e your alumnus neigh­bor, fellow-Club member. Classmates, all are in. Then we can ask more non-alumni help. 
FOR THE FIVE YEARS ENDING JUNE 30, 1951  
Year Ending June 30  Total  
Sponsored Research  1947  1948  1949  1950  1951  Five Years  
Government  $165,594  $264,959  $265,490  $ 405,200  $ 465,430  $1,566,673  
Industry and others..  80,965  94,240  86,296  123,168  113,315  497,984  
$246,559  $359,199  $351,786  $ 528,368  $ 578,745  $2,064,657  
Gifts:  1947  1948  1949  1950  1951  Five Years  
Restricted  $367,179  $271,188  $439,543  $1,857,512  $1,729,136  $4,664,558  
Unrestricted  193,271  275,816  257,897  269,197  275,025  1,271,206  
$560,450  $547,004  $697,440  $2,126,709  $2,004,161  $5,935,764  

Grand Total, for the Five Fiscal Years, of Rescaidi Grants, and Gifts.. ..$8,000,421 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Bernard Dirify Succeeds Walker in New York 
Appointment of Bernard C. Duffy, of New York City, President of Bat­ten, Barton, Durstine and Osbom, Inc., as Chairman of the Greater New York Chapter of the President's Committee of the University of Notre Dame, is announced by Rev. John J.. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University. 
Mr. Duffy succeeds Frank C. \Valker, '09, former Postmaster Gen­eral of the United States, as Chair­man of the Committee. Mr. Walker will continue as National Chairman of the Notre Dame Foundation and as President of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame. 
Purpose of the President's Com­mittee is to act as counsel and ad­visor to the President of Notre Dame. Most members of the Committee, like Mr. Duffy, did not attend Notre Dame. Mr. Duffy also is a member of the Advisory Council for the Col­lege of Commerce at Notre Dame. 
As President of Batten, Barton, Durstine and Osbom, Inc., Mr. Duffy is one of the advertising leaders of the nation. He is a member of the Board of Directors of the Audit Bu­reau of Circulations, Chairman of the Advisor)' Committee on Adver­tising of the Proprietary Association of America, Director-at-large of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, and Vice-Chairman of the Advertising Committee of the Car­dinal's Committee of the Laity (Catholic Charities). 
Dr. Edward Mohin Dies 

Dr. Edward Garfield Mahin, 76, for 25 years a member of the metal­lurgical staff at the University, died Feb. 5 in South Bend. 
Dr. Mahin served in the metal­lurgy department from 1925 to 1949 and received an honorary Doctor of Science degree from Purdue Univer­sity in 1950. He was the author of four te.xts on chemistry and metal­lurgy and served as a metals expert in 1917 and 1918 for the U. S.Navy. 
Father Lauck Honored 

Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., has become the first priest elected to membership in the Audubon Artists, an honorary national art society. 
Father Lauck, professor of sculp­ture at the University, was elected in recognition of outstanding artistic achievement. 
James L. McGovern Dies 
One of the University's oldest non-alumni friends, James L. McGovem died Feb. 3 in Bridgeport, Conn., at the age of 82. 
He was associate editor of the Bridgeport Post-Telegram and had been president of the Connecticut cir­cuit of Associated Press since 1933. 

FBI Is Accepting Applications 
The Federal Bureau of Investigation is now accepting applica­tions for positions of Special Agent and Special Agent (Accountant) from qualified candidates who jxjssess an Ll.B. degree or accounting degree from resident schools. For a temporary indefinite period ap­plications are also being accepted for the position of Special Agent Employe from men who possess a four-year degree (such as AB, BS or other) from accredited resident colleges. 
Applicant must be: 5'7" in barefoot height. Over 25 and under 41, Of 20/40 and 20/50 (Snellen) vision corrected to 20/20, Willing to serve anywhere in the U. S. or territorial p>os­
sessions. 

Application forms and further information may be seciu-ed from the nearest field office of the FBI, whose address may be obtained in any postoffice. Entrance salary is $5,500 yearly, with retirement after 20 years' service, at minimum age of 50. 
Resigns U. S. Post 
DON MILmt^^aS 

Don Miller, '25, resigned in Janu­ary as U. S. District Attorney in Cleveland, after ten years in office. 
He stepiied out to form a law partnership with John J. Kennedy of Cleveland. 
From President Truman, Miller re­ceived the presidential regrets at his leavingoffice, and the commendation: 
"You are to be commended up>on the excellent service you have ren­dered as United States Attorney, and the Government has been fortimate in having had the services of one whose devotion to duty has been so outstanding." 
increased Enroliment For Spring Semester 
A total of 4,949 undei^raduate and graduate students have enrolled for the Spring semester at the University. 
The Notre Dame enrollment for the cunent Spring semester is an increase of 127 students over the Spring se­mester of 1951, when 4,822 students were enrolled. Although enrollment in the Fall semester just concluded was a record 5,154 students. Father James E. Norton, C.S.C, Vice-Presi­dent in Charge of Academic Affairs, pointed out that there annually is a normal decrease in enrollment be­tween the Fall and Spring semesters. 
The Sprii^ semester at Notre Dame will continue until June 1st, when Commencement Exercises Mrill be held for the conferring of degrees. 
Geo. Shuster Departs 
Washingfen Sent the 'Right Man at the Right Time' 
(Translated by Rev. Bernard J. Ill, C.S.C., from a German Newspaper.) 
On the 19th of April, 1950, die government agencies announced that, at the request of High Commissioner John McCloy, the president of Hunter College, a well-known school for girls in New York, had been appointed Land Commissioner of Bavaria. At the time we published an article en­titied "Better Late Than Never." When Professor Shuster arrived in Munich three months later the Land Commission was put under civil con­trol and withdrawn from the military' administration impose d eighteen years ago by the northern Gennan states upon the southern, an arrange­ment not anticipated by international law. In view of the substitution of civil for military control, it is easy to understand that the caption, "Better Late Than Never," aroused consider­able criticism in the Tegemsee quar­ter of the metropolis. And yet, every­one familiar with the histor\' of the military occupation vnW endorse the words of Prime Minister Dr. Ehard uttered Wednesday evening in the Schackgalerie before a gathering of the political and the cultmral person­nel of the capital city: "Washington sent the right man at the right time. 
For, Land Commissioner Professor Shuster, on account of his historical, linguistic, and humanistic background, has a friendly and intelligent appre­ciation of poetical, musical, and spir­itual Germany." 
Whoever in our country came into contact, either officially or socially, with Professor Shuster will echo the words of Doctor Ehard and will also feel that the farewell words of the Land Commissioner were not merely polite phrases but based on convic­tion: "You have a beautiful country, an ancient history', a healthy, blunt people; and you are striving for an independence that will guard your solidarity and your old customs and manners. May you preserve all these!" 
In a farewell chat with a friend in our editorial set-up Professor Shuster spoke of the things he enjoyed and loved here and would often miss in New York: the opera with the stage settings of Helmut Jiirgen; the the­ater, especially the plays produced in the Court Theater (he politely ig­nored the other theaters); the cham­ber music in private houses which originated in Germany but later also found a home in America; his strolls along the Isar in Griinwald where he lived; his rambles through Munich where he scarcely could tear himself away from the bookstalls; the beer and the unforgettable restaurants of the larger and smaller breweries lead­ing up to the culinar)' climax of a Walterspiel. 
As a final incident in the catalogue 

of reminiscences the Professor's friend 
recounted that he himself had brought 
back from his frequent trips through 
the country many rare, much sought-
after, and coveted beer-glass mats 
from Bavarian breweries for Mrs. 
Shuster's Collection after he had de­
tected the Professor covertly slipping 
one such into his pocket after a din­
ner in a brewerj" restaurant. In other 
respects, the raconteur admitted the 
Professor is painfully honest. In fact, 
he had seen him press upon the edi­
tor in chief,' Dr. Buttersack, chairman 
of the Old-Peter-Committee fifteen 
marks which he had forgotten to re­
mit for admission to the Old-Peter-
Testivities in the Prince-Regent theatre. 
In his adieu to his friends in our 

editorial circle his comments were ad­
dressed rather to his countrymen than 
to us. He hoped that the Americans 
living among us, in this country' old 
in culture and story, would return 
home, as he is, with an admiration 
renewed and filled with artistic im­
pressions and memories. This was 
deeply appreciated by us coming, as 
it did, from a man to whom scarcely 
one of our ancient monasteries with 
their chapels, scarcely one of our 
cathedrals and parish churches is un­
familiar—all monuments of that old­est western culture of which he who drives like mad over the auto roads .'has not the least suspicion and never 
gets to see. 
Prof. Bott in 26th Year 

J. Herbert Bott, professor of mar­keting in the University College of Commerce was honored recentiy at a dinner for his 25 years' service. The dinner was held in South Bend, at the Hotel Hoffmann. 
Bott was presented with a gold watch, engraved for the occasion. Speakers included Rev. James E.Nor­ton, C.S.C., Vice-President in Charge of Academic Affairs and Rev. John 
H. Murphy, C.S.C, Vice-President in Charge of Public Relations, and Ed­mund A. Smith, assistant dean of the Commerce College. 
Alumni in Virginia organize the Notre Dame Foundation on a state-wide basis. From left to right: (front row) Frank Stumpf, Frank Albert, Thomas Hills, (second row) John Cacklcy, Paul Morrison, Anselm Miller, Charles Morrison, (back row) William O'Sullivan, .Thomas Morrison, Charles Hutchins, Jr., and Edward Boyle. 
•••gal lovts 

In Spring a young man's fancy turns to the lazier pastimes, but there is a group of students on the campus now who will refute this in no un­certain terms. Almost one himdred eager aspirants to the boxing titles of the Bengal Bouts have been sweat­ing through an intensive training pro­gram since the first of February. All are pointing towards March 11, 12, 13, 15, and 17, the dates of the 21st Aimual Bengal Bouts. 
The Bengal Bouts are the intra­mural boxing championships presented yearly by the Notre Dame. Coimcil Knights of Columbus. The proceeds from the tournament are turned over to the Holy Cross Bengal Missions. 
Under the watchful eye of boxing instructor Dominic Napolitano, these student gladiators spend several hours of each day training for the big nights. This training recentiy fea­tured a boxing exhibition between Purdue University and the Bengal Bouters. Showing the excellent re­sults of their practice, instruction and conditioning, the representatives of Notre Dame won all eight of the bouts, three by knockouts. 
All training, as well as the Bouts themselves, is in accord with NCAA intercollegiate regulations. Headgears are wom during all bodily contact, with 16-ounce gloves the order for all training periods. Before a boy is permitted to enter the ring he spends at Iea<it six weeks in conditioning and training in the fundamentals of the sp)ort. Such careful supervision is re­sponsible not only for the fact that there has never been a serious injury in the long history of the bouts, but also assures top flight boxing skill. 
Most interesting of this year's in­novations in the Bengal Bout pro­gram is the televising of the finals on March 17 over station WGN-TV. 
For the two score years of compe­tition, the Bengal Bouts have offered thrills unlimited. This year will be no exception as there will be five re­turning champions in the various weight groups. With these and the many who are eager see that. they are champions no loiter, the Bengal Bouts promise another fine program of boxing skill and excitement. 
Roy Espenan Playground 
The Ray Espenan Memorial Play­ground was dedicated Jan. 21 in New Orleans, as a monument to the Notre Dame student and athlete who died in 1950. 
Ray's parents, Mr. and Mrs. Ed­ward J. Espenan, attended the cere­monies as Mike Smith, representing the New Orleans Alumni Club read telegrams from Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president. Head Coach Frank Leahy and Athletic Director Edward Krause. 
The dedication was made by New Orleans Mayor deLesseps S. Mor­rison. 
Frank Thomas Resigns 

Frank Thomas, '23, resigned on Feb. 1 as athletic director at Univer­sity of Alabama after 21 years there. 
He gave up active coaching five years ago after several periods of ill­ness. Since 1931 he had taken Ala­bama teams to the Rose Bowl three times and once each to the Sugar, Cotton and Orange Bowls. 
Thomas had a record of 115 wins. 

24 losses and seven ties in his coach­ing tenure at the southern school. 
Another For Leahy 

Their eighth child was bom to Floss and Frank Leahy on February 24. Christopher Leahy weighed only four pounds, one ounce at birth and • will be kept in an incubator until he attains a weight of five pounds. Chris was bom six weeks prematurely. Congratu­lations to Coach and Mrs. Leahy. 
Bemie Crinimins receives a departing gift from Frank Leahy before assuming job as head coach at Indiana. 
Hugh Bums, Notre Dame trainer, was honored in March with the award as Trainer-of-the-Year. Pictured above receiving the award at the annual Knute Rockne Memorial Banquet are: Bums; Eddie Hickey, the Basketball Coach-of-the-Year from St. Louis University; and Ed Kluska, Xavier football coach, who received an award as Little All-American football coach of the year. 
The Fluent Irish 
By PROF. LEONARD F. SOMMER Debate Coach 

The tongue and the vocal cords have always played an important role in the legend of Notre Dame. The Irish athletic teams have been cheered in arenas and stadia throughout the land, and the "Victory March" has been rendered in almost all sections of the globe. But now this medium of expression—the voice—is playing another role in bringing the name of the University' to many hundreds and thousands more. And this work is being carried out by that group which aptly bears the sobriquet "The Fluent Irish"—the Debate Team. 
This team consists of some fifty undeip:aduates who have donated many hours of work and research to this year's national debate topic: "Re­solved: that the Federal Government should adopt a permanent policy of wage and price controls." Like -the athletes these men must be in con­stant cofidition—only their workouts are carried on in the University Li­brar\' rather than in the Memorial or on Cartier Field. These men must be familiar with all phases of their topic and must constantly be aware of all legislation and rulings in the field of wage and price control. After the men have had an opportunity to assimiliate this knowledge, cases are worked out and two-man teams are formed and a series of intra-squad debates is held. The showings in these events enable the coach to pick the top men who will be designated to represent Notre Dame in some of the toughest andmost loquacious com­petition held throughout the country. 
But the Debate Team does more than merely compete in national con­tests. As the arrival of the University athletic teams has long been a signal for the alumni to assemble during the past years, so now the "old grads" are gathering around the champion­ship debate squad. And it is the wish of the Debate Team that they might serve as a contact for the alumni with the University. It has been happen­ing, and even more can be done. 
This year's traveling squad con­sists of a nucleus of four men. AI DeCranc, a junior from Cleveland 
Eas^ Bni Caiejr, *51, greeted the Debate Team in Boston prior to a recent toamament. Left to ri^t in die photo are CSiuck Doherty, Carey, AI De&ane, and Len Soouner. Bill, Ac natiooal diamp in '50 and '51, is stationed aboard the USS Columbus now in the Bostoa Naval Yard. 
Heights, Ohio, and the President of the Debate Team is the number one man on the affirmative combinatitMi, and he is paired with Chuck Do­herty, a freshman from the North side of Pittsburgh. The first nega­tive team consists of Don Dowden, 
a. sophomore from Louisville, Ken­tucky, and Bill Hank, who is also a second year man and who hails from Chicago. It is these men who have been capturing the trophies—six al­ready this year—and the following of the alumni. 

In Baltimore for the Johns Hopkins Tournament the team was welcomed by another champion. Bob Williams, and honorary alumnus Mr. Lucian Gaudreau. At the Boston University meet held only a few weeks ago the team celebrated with many of the Notre Dame men of past years—espe­cially remembered are Bill Carey, one­time President of the Debate Team and now an ensign in the Navy, and Mr. Jack Duffy, past President of the ND Club of Boston. The boys on the squad enjoy the opportunities of­fered them in the way of speaking before the alumni groups and in meeting these men, and it is hoped that more familiar faces from past years will be found waiting when the team travels to Brooklyn March 7 and 8 and to Columbus and Cleve­land, Ohio on March 28 and 29 and April 3, 4 and 5 respectively. 
The University is proud of the gentlemanly and winning ways of the varsity Debate Team, and it seems as though that feeling of pride is per­meating the alumni. 
Riflemen Win Again 

Two Notre Dame riflemen have won national titles in competition with R.O.T.C. units representing col­leges and universities throu^out the United States. They are William K. Hayden, of Highland Park, Mich., and Donald C. Riley, of Brooklvn. 
N. Y. 
Hayden's title marks the fourth consecutive year that a member of the Naval R.O.T.C. unit at Notre Dame has won the individual national championship in the Hearst comjjeti­tion. 
Glee Club Returns From West Coast Tour 
Returning from their longest tour in history, the Glee Club has just completed .a 6100-mile trek to the western and southwestern areas of the country. Starting at their semester vacation, thirty-six songsters and their director, Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, completed the journey in ten days. Also accompanying the group was their chaplain, Rev. Charles Carey, CS.C , Vice-President in Charge of Student Welfare. 
Concerts were given in St louis, Missouri; San Francisco and Stock­ton, California; Phoenix, Arizona; and El Paso, Texas. The arrange­ments for the concert in Stockton were master-minded by Jim Jones, '33. The activities in St. Loiiis and Phoenix were handled by the Alumni Clubs in those areas. There's more news on these last two in the "Alumni Clu'--'' section. 
The newspaper reports and the personal comments acclaiming the fine showing of the Glee Club on this tour proves the fact that their efforts were a great success. It also prom­ises an East Coast audience another excellent opportunity to enjoy this traditionally fine choral group during their Spring tour. For the Easter holidays the Glee Club will travel to New York, April 10-13; Philadelphia, April 14; Summit, New Jersev. April 15; Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, April 16; Greenburg, Pennsylvania, April 
17; Buffalo, New York, Erie, Pennsylvania, April Tiffin, Ohio, April 20. 
 April 18;  19; and 

To welcome the Glee Club to Phoenix are Glenn McDonough and Al Picks, Phoenix Club President. Rev. Charles Csirey acted as chaplain for the group. 
Honoring the Glee Club m Stockton, Calif., arc Rev. O. Moriarty; Jim Jones, '33, Gen'I Chainnan; Bill Toomey, Glee Club Pres.; Bob Mosher, '33; Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C; Frank Myers, Business Manager; Daniel Pedtke, Director; ami Rev. Lester Ehrman. 
Review of Polities Commands Attention 
Alumni who are interested in serious treatment of international affairs, will find the "Review of Politics" ($4 a year), published at Notre Dame, an outstanding source of schol­arly material. Several excerpts from the current issue are indicative. 
From an article on "Totalitarian Reli­gions" by the Editor, Dr. Waldemar Gurian 
".. . Secularism in its totalitarian form becomes a secular religion, put­ting a human doctrine in the place of Revelation, a visible worldly society in the place of union with God as the aim of life. Not utilitarian calcula­tion but demonstrations of faith in the unlimited power of the doctrine and its representatives really matter. Utilitarian calculations would limit the policies of expansion and the urge to absolute domination. The totali­tarian, immanentist faith cannot be met by an optimistic secularism which is not aware of the fundamental crisis of our time or by an apparently re­ligious attitude for which religion is, despite theoretical denials,. indissolu­bly bound to a particular social order. The pseudo-certainty of totalitarian­ism which establishes by terror and a refined system of pressure a closed pseudo-real world can be opjxjsed only by the true certainty based ujjon be­lief in true revelation and by the realization that man is infinitely more than an instrument for life and so­ciet)' in this world, that there are 
rights and duties of the human per­son which cannot be sacrificed to a doctrine about political and social development. The conflict between the Church and totalitarianism is, therefore, much more than a conflict between Church and state, for totali­tarianism tries to establish a reality in which all human forces and beliefs serve only this world, an earthly so­ciety, which is self-sufficient and has no other end than itself. The world leading to God, totalitarianism re­places by a self-sufficient world which, throu^ the effort and struggles of men, makes God appear merely as a superstitious creation of men before they were able to master their life and society or siinply as a mythical symbol of the power exercised by their social or racial elites." 
And from "Politica] Power in (he Soviet Union," by N. S. Umashcff, Fordham pro­fessor: 
".. . Since the end of the last war, the men in the Kremlin have started building an empire which, by the very nature of their doctrine, must become universal. In the beginning, they were rather cautious. But the 
Korean adventure has demonstrated 
that the dynamism has grown too 
strong to guarantee the prevalence of 
caution. The Kremlin is well aware 
of the danger involved in a third 
world war and does not want it, at 
least right away; but it might pro­
voke it by another stroke of the 
Korean type. Then survival would 
defiend on the relative strength of 
the powers opposed to one another. 
The strength of a political power 
structure is, however, nothing other 
than the composition of the forces of 
the individuals under its orders and 
of their command of nature. But the 
Soviet man's command of nature is 
about one-quarter or one-fifth of the 
American man—this ratio is well es­
tablished by painstaking comparisons 
of the efficacy of labor in the two na­
tions and of the relative number of 
persons with higher education.i^ For 
the Kremlin, military defeat would be 
the signal of the end—over-d\Tiamic 
power centers do not sur\'i%'e the 
demonstration of their weakness, pro­
vided that the enemy does not com­
mit errors of the magnitude of Hit­
ler's blunders. 
"Fission within or a knock-out blow from the outside provoked by unrea­sonable over-tension of relations with the outward world—these are the most probable modes of the passing away of the notorious power machine acting from the Kremlin. This, how­ever, is not a prediction—the men in the Kremlin might overcome the diffi­culties of succession and might refrain from actions provoking a global war. If so, the present day tension will per­sist, and the American plan of a free and jieaceful world will remain ob­structed by the presence, in another part of the globe, of a political po^v•er machine aiming at a peculiar One World—obedient not only in deed, but even in word and thought to the Great Master of the Kremlin." 
And from "Soviet and Wcsfcm Politics in Hungary 1944-1947," by S. Kertesz, now a member of the Notre Dame faculty: 
".. . The Western psychological approach towards Russia and her Communist leaders.was probably even more mistaken than the planning or the allied lack of planning. If the 
"Cf. N. S. TimashefT, "War or Peace," THOUGHT, September, 1950. 
wartime Western piolicy toward Soviet Russia had been more realistic, Lend-Lease would not have multiplied the mobility of the Red Army after Sta­lingrad and the Russians might have finished the hostilities by fighting on their own soil, while Central Eastern Europe could have been liberated by an Anglo-American army. This would have facilitiated a reasonable European settlement much more than any previous declarations of prin­ciple, agreements or commitments ac­cepted by the Soviet Leaders, 
"The reasons for the Central and Eastern European policy of the West-em powers are today well kno\vn, having been set forth in many mem­oirs and statements. The fact none­theless remains that the outcome of this policy has been a far cry from those wartime pledges which promised to the liberated countries free elec­tions, representative governments, and democratic institutions. It has thus come about that an important area has been lost to the free world." 
Moot Court 

One of the youngest organizations on the campus. The Moot Court As­sociation, of the Law School again carried the Notre Dame tradition of winning, when its representatives, E. Milton Farley III of Richinond, Va., and Joseph C. Spaulding of Margan­field, Ky., won the championship of the Seventh Judicial Circuit, in Chi­cago on Dec. 1. The final arguments were held in the Circuit Court of Appeals chambers while the prelim­inary arguments were held in the Cook County Court House. 
Primarily, the Moot Court organ­ization is a voluntary student organ­ization of the law school presided over by an Executive Board and aided by the two faculty moderators. Prof. Edward F. Barrett and Robert 
E. Sullivan. 
Moot Court men argue hypothet­ical cases on an appellate level in the mythical Supreme Court of Hoynes. 
Each year arguments are con­ducted among the Junior students in the Law School. The two best men in the division are determined at the final arguments held in June. These two men are the representatives of the Law School in National Competition. 
Washington Day Exercises 
Presentation of a new American 

Hag by members of the senior class 
to the University highlighted tradi­
tional Washington's Birthday exercises 
in Washington Hall. 
Members of the senior class annu­

ally present the University with a new 
flag, blessed after the Baccalaureate 
Mass on Commencement Day, June 
1, which will replace last year's flag 
during the Commencement Exercises. 
Leonard F. Kilian, of Auburn, N. 

Y., a student in the College of 
Science, presided as chairman of the 
ceremonies. Kilian holds the highest 
scholastic average in the graduating 
class. 
Edward A. Goerner, senior in the 

College of Arts and Letters, gave the 
principal address at the exercises, 
while Geoi^ R. Sweet, of South 
Bend, Ind., delivered the address of 
presentation of the flag to the Uni­
versity. The Rev. Theodore M. Hes-
burgh, C.S.C., Executive Vice-Presi­
dent, accepted the flag on behalf of 
the University. 
Writers' Conference 

Miss Betty Finnin, of New York City, Fiction Editor of Woman's Day magazine, will be one of the prin­cipal members of the staff of the fourth annual Writers' Conference to be held June 23 to June 28 at the University. 
Miss Finnin, who has had wide ex­perience with writers' conference work, has been Fiction Editor of Woman's Day for the past twelve years. She has served on writers' con­ference staffs at Bread Loaf, Vermont, the University of California and the University of New Hampshire. Miss Finnin served last year on the staff of the summer course in publishing procedure at Radcliffe College. She contributed a chapter to the book. Writers on Writing, published in 1949. 
The Notre Dame Writers' Confer­ence vrill be divided into three work­shops—^Fiction, Poetry and the Teach-ii ^ of Creative Writing. General purpose of the Conference is to pro­vide criticism and direction for younger writers or teachers of cre­ative writing by experienced staff members. Professor Louis Hasley is the Conference director. 
nuir. smM mmm mm wm 
( The Address of John H. Sheehan, Head of the Economics Department, Given at the January Caouncacanent, 1952.) 
As a faculty member who has been privileged to work with many of you, I would like to add my congratula­tions to you, the first class of 1952. All of us proudly salute you. 
You know that being a Notre 

Dame alumnus carries with it many 
privileges. You know also that these 
privileges are accompanied by cor­
relative duties and responsibilities. 
Like many Notre Dame classes 

ahead of you, you begin new careers 
—military or civilian—in a greatly 
disturbed world. But like your prede­
cessors in these and other times of 
stress, you are adequately equipped 
and armed to enable you to live in 
the world as it is, and to work with 
others towards its improvement. 
As graduates of a Catholic col­lege, you accept your privilege and responsibility. You will be able to accomplish much because you know and have faith in your ultimate goal, and have knowledge of proper means for working towards intermediate and ultimate goals. 
One means that all of us must use throughout our lives is providing our­selves and others with a workable sys­tem for obtaining our daily bread— the providing of a proper economic order. It is regarding the relation­ship between the Catholic College graduate and the Economic Order that I wish to speak with you briefly. 
To begin with, ever>' Christian, 
• precisely because he is a Christian, should be a builder; everlastingly building and reconstructing on his way towards Eternity with God. 
Normally, while on earth, every 
man is a member of a household— 
his family household. And because 
man is a social being, he and his 
household normally live among and 
cooperate with other households. 
Since a community or a nation is 
fundamentally a group of households, 
one may refer to the United States as 
a household or as "The House of 
America." 
In this sense, I should like to make one fKjint in considering our Eco­nomic Order. It is this: Economic­ally, there is nothing so perfect in the House of America that it cannot 

be improved, and nothing so wrong 
that it cannot be repaired. 
This statement impfies that: (1) 

there are some things wrong; (2) 
that some repairing or reconstructing 
is needed; and (3) that there do 
e.xist some reasonable guides and 
means for reconstruction to make our 
"house" more orderly, livable and 
enduring. 
Three groups living in the House 

of America fail to think straight 
about this matter. There are those 
who are confused by the complexities 
of modern life so that they do not 
know whether our economic house is 
in good order or in bad order. Then 
there is the selfishly complacent 
group which, living in a comfortable 
wing of the house, fails to see the 
crumbling foundation and sagging 
roof in other parts. Finally, there 
are those who see only defects and 
decay, and consequently think the 
house should be entirely torn down. 
The confused are, of course, con­

founded by the false testimony of the 
complacent, as well as by the cynical 
sneering of those who see only the 
bad. 
The straight-thinking occupants are not victims of confusion. They see America's Economic House as it is. They are the Christian builders and reconstructors. They know that no matter how complex and seemingly impersonal modem relationships have become. Christian cooperation can give us an orderly and sound eco­nomic structure. They know that fundamentally to live, all men must make use of goods called the "fruits of the earth." 
. To have access to the fruits of the earth—that is, to goods and services —is a right every man has, just be­cause he is a man. This is the basic right of private property—the right to ownership and control of sufficient goods and services to enable man to live as man should live. 
That there are numberless economic occupations merely confirms the fun­damental necessity for human co--­operation. It is not bad but good that there are miners and farmers; lawryers and chemists; professors and pullman porters. It is not multi­plicity of occupations that is the 
cause of disorder in our house. It is 
because some have forgotten that 
man is always a social, dependent 
being as well as an individual, inde­
pendent being; that all necessary 
goods and services are for all men. 
He fools himself who thinks he can 

live in a sound and orderly house 
any way except cooperatively. By 
cooperatively, we simply mean ful­
filling one's obligations to himself and 
to other members of the community, 
according to his God-given abilities. 
In doing so, one must both recognize, 
the economic facts and also follow 
the principles of economic justice. 
Although some try to hide or dis­tort them, the economic facts are available to those willing to dig for them. Generally, the facts are: some badly distributed income, some un­healthful concentration and control of wealth, some unbalanced wages, prices, and profits, all causing serious economic injustices and strife. Spe­cifically, many facts bear upon the general problems. Your college train­ing has given you the research ability to dig for these facts, as they change from time to time. You need not follow blindly the news commentators, competent and otherwise, or the many biased propagandists. 
One specific set of facts that we should be aware of—and of their consequences—are the facts regarding our present defense economy. No or­dinary situation exists. It is no time for allowing individuals or pressure groups to feather their nests at the expense of the ccMounon good. Rather it is a time for general self-saciifice and cooperative moral restraint, with impartial legal restraints . for those who refuse to live up., to our common responsibilities. 
For more than...sixty years, -the Popes in their Social Encyclicals have ui^ntly warned us of the general facts regarding the unsound aspects, of our Economic Houses. They have also given '\ii~''geneTal--principles for Reconstruction. These Papal econmnic teachings have repeatedly been called ­to the attention of American CathoHcs by the archbishops and bishops of the Administrative Board of the National 
Catholic Welfare Conference. In 1919, in the "Bishops' Program of Social Reconstruction," a dozen re­forms were officially recommended. While the voice of these bishops went unheard during the 1920's, several measures finally were adopted in the 193G's, including wages and hours laws, social insurance laws, and legal recognition of collective bargaining. 
Again, in 1940, in their official pronouncement entitled "The Church and the Social Order" these bishops urged acceptance and application of the Papal economic teachings. Large­ly drowned-out by World War II, they warned that: 
"Our present economic order rests 
upon the sanctity of private property 
(which) is not well distributed at present. . . . (This) situation con­stitutes a grave social evil. . . . So­cial stability rests upon this basis of individual ownership of property. There should be more of it, and not less of it, if our existing economic system is to remain secure." . -. (par. 31) 
Private property, of course, can be acquired by most people only from their wages and salaries. 
The bishops also reminded us that our disorder and conflict stem from the 150-year-old false philosophy of "the extreme individualists of the so-called school of economic liberalism . . . (those who) are liberal only to the extent that they wish to be lib­erated from all .social respon.sibilit>'." . . . (par. 50) 
In their latest statement, of Novem­ber 1951, our American Catholic Bishops bring this matter of social responsibility up to date, with em­phasis on Moral Standards and Pub­lic Morality. Other serious-minded leaders, including Senators Fulbright, Tobey and O'Mahoney, also have warned us of the dangers of com­placency towards public economic immorality — political and business graft, wage and price chiseling—dur­
ing the present defense boom. 
Our most pressing social responsi­bility is concerned with the specific facts of defense inflation, with its narcotic illusions of more and more dollars. However, in the ever chang­ing panorama of specific circum­stances, a dangerous deflationary sit­uation can very well face us—in two to five years—barring outbreak of World War III. From such strains can come disaster. It can happen by merely letting things drift. But dis­aster is not inevtiable. 
As students of the question, we rec­ognize that present disorder stems both from the older selfish individ­ualism and from the newer danger­ous, collectivism — collectivism, the monstrous offspring of illegitimate in­dividualism. From these two material­istic sources have come the danger and damage to the Economic House of America. But we know it is still essentially a good house—not a house to be demolished as the coUectivists would like; nor left to fall apart under unrestricted occupancy by ex­treme individualists. 
We know the house is worthy of repair. Economically, we have ample resources for sound reconstruction. Detailed principles of reconstruction are available to us. 
The annual statement of the Bish­ops of the United States for 1948 entitled "The Christian in Action" hjis this to say: 
"Catholic social philosophy has a constructive program for this organic development of economic life. Pope Pius XI, rounding out the social prin­ciples formulated by Leo XIII, laid down the broad outlines of this pro­gram seventeen years ago. In line with that constructive program we advocate freely organized cooperation between the accredited representa­tives of capital and labor in each industry and in the economy as a whole, under the supervision but not the control of government. . . . Amer­ican Catholic students of the Social Encyclicals have expressed their pref­erence for the name 'Industry Coun­cils' to designate the basic organs of a Christian and American type of economic democracy into which they would like to, see our economic sys­tem progressively evolve. 
Our Bishops urge all men of "faith and principle'' to take the lead in working toward this necessary "evo­lution." They realize, as you and I do, that this is a long-range program, to be achieved only by "painstaking 
study  and  effort."  Study  and  effort  
have  already  gained  some  small  
headway.  

And we are not wthout experience to guide us. We have had some 
common interest group action — for example, under the NIRA codes. We have had joint-action committees un­der the Fair Labor Standards Act, and under the National War Labor Board and the Defense Production Boards. We have had, also, the suc­cessful example of the Committee for Economic Development with its many common interest projects. 
Some program of responsible ac­tivity, carried out by common interest associations seems to be a possible middle road between giant private economic dictatorship and giant gov­ernmental dictatorship. As Catholic college graduates, this is one of the concrete tasks awaiting your con­tinued study and effort, no matter what your future occupation may be: whether engineer or accountant, doc­tor or salesman. The light-weights, the timid, the escapists won't aid in this task. It is a job for intelUgent, courageous and faithful men. 
In the words of Pius XII: "What is . . . important is that the . . . faithful in its variety of work, would not hesitate to put . . . coura­geously into practice the principle of social doctrine of the Church, and would defend it and spread it ... " —Pius XII, allocution, "L inscrutible consiglio divino." Acta Apostalicae Sedis XXXVI (1944) 85, 6. In other words, after college our duty in our profession or vocation is to apply personally the principles of social-economic morality, and to strive towards having our profession or voca­tion accept and use these principles. In this way we can work towards Christian cooperation among individ­uals and groups to replace the all too frequent struggle between worker and manager, worker and worker, business man and business man, seller and consumer. In this way we can avoid the thing that Conununist leaders are betting on: division and conflict, collapse and self-destruction. In this way our good "House of America" can be soundly reconstructed and kept in good repair. In this way we can do our part as responsible Notre Dame men. As one of your old professors — with some Irish blood in me — let me close with a little prayer used by some of the old Irish: May Almighty God speed you. And give you the height of luck. 

THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME'S OWN HOTEL WILL OPEN IN APRIL 
92 Rooms 92 iafhs Rates from $6.00 Single — $9.00 Double 
y • N. 
Dining Room — Excellent Cuisine — Air-CondHioned 
* 
Private Function Rooms — also Air-Conditioned 

* 
Room Service Gift and Souvenir Shop Cigar and Newsstand Golf locker and shower facilities for men guests 


* Putting Green Radio and Circulating Ice Water in every room Parking Area, paved and lighted, adjoining 

\ / 
The Morris Inn, a gift to the University from the late E. M. Morris '06 of South Bend, In­diana, will open in April. 
Reservations from many friends of Notre Dame, the alumni and parents of the Students are being received daily. 
It is the hope of the University that the Morris Inn will help to introduce many new friends to the objectives and ideals of Notre Dame, as well as to serve the many old friends and supporters whom the University now enjoys and values so highly. 
With this thought in mind we think it well to assure all of our readers that the facilities of The Morris Inn are completely at their disposal, not only for themselves, but for their friends and acquaintances as well. 
Please feel free to call upon the management of The Inn for assistance in caring for your requirements, or those of persons you direct to us. It will be his pleasure to render prompt and efficient service at all times and nothing will be left undone in carrying out your wishes. 
In the event your room requirements cannot be token core of at The Inn because of pre­vious booking the management will assis.t in securing reservations in one of South Bend's downtown hotels. 
Please write, telegraph or telephone. 
Edward H. Hunt, Manager The Morris Inn Notre Dame, Indiana 
The 'American populace seems to be involved in an evolution of regi­mentation, system and bureaucracy. Some is good; some is bad. Campus life at Notre Dame has, not escaped this tendency in striving for increased efficiency and versatility. But guided into proper channels, its worth to the University is undoubtedly most val­uable. 
Extra-curricular activity having any semblance of affiliation wth the Uni­versity is sanctioned and controlled by the students' own duly-elected representatives—the Student Council. Under the influence of this govern­ing body are all the various campus organizations, the most powerfid and active of which, are the regional and geographical clubs. 
These clubs are a student branch of their respective local Notre Dame Alumni clubs and offer an excellent opportunity for building better alumni clubs in the future. Through a pro­gram of cooperation and mutual plan­ning both segments of the Notre Dame Club can stimulate the interest of the student and recent graduate in the aims, policies, and functions of the Alumni organization. 
From the day of enrollment in the University, the student's indoctrina­tion and orientation into the. Aliunni Assodation should commence. His four years of association with a cam­pus club should be stepping stones to his life membership in the Alumni 
Association. The University has grown im­mensely in size since 1941. More students have been graduated in the past twenty years than in all the previous years. It is often hard for the Alumni Clubs to create and main­tain a personal affiliation with the students in their area. But there is an imperative necessity for adopting the younger graduates into the club if the club is to remain strong in future years. The method of attract­ing them appears evident; it is now time to revamp our methods and double our efforts toward a greater and more powerful Alumni Assoda­tion. 
Of course, there can be no set rules since the make up and general procedure of ,each club is different: however, the accompanying graph il­lustrates the possible unity and work­ing relationship between the campus and the parent club. 

Club and Campus: A Team 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MEIROSE MOROSE CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
SEPTEMBER 
OCTOBER Smoker 
Smoker 
NOVEMBER 

DECEMBER Communfon Suncfay Communion Sunday 
JANUARY 

FEBRUARY Monthly meeting Monthly meeting 
MARCH Election of oflTicers 
Election of Officers 
APRIL 

Universal Notre Dame Night Universal Notre Dame Night 
MAY 
JUNE 

Welcoming new grads into club 
JULY 

Summer Picnic 
AUGUST 

Baltimore 
"Mc. Hocfareiter, it znust be admitted, is not Spencer Tracy, but he does nunage to loolc (and even act) more like the popular coocep­tioa of a father than Mr. Tracy tvas ever able to do." 
The above newspaper quote was prompted by the appearance of Franklyn C. Hochrelter, '35, as "Father of the Bride" in a Baltimore stage presentation of that popular play. The Balti­more Foundation Committee bought out an en* tire performance of the show, in the Vagabond Players* Arena Theatre, Baltimore. 
Hoch is Secretary of the 1935 class, Foimda­tiun City Chairman for Baltimore and past president of the Baltimore Alumni Club. He sold the Foundation Committee - the plan to buy up one house of "Father of the Bride," re­allocate the tickets and use the net as a con­tribution to the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Buffalo 
Under the general chairmanship of Attorney 

Bill Lawless, a ver>* successful Basketball Lunch-con was held here at the Sheraton Hotel. And as expected, all guests were honored with the ' presence of ND coach Johnny Jordan and his trawling squad. Many local sports notables %«'cre present as well as dignitaries from ND*s 
rival that e\'ening, Canisius College. 
The luncheon program of introductions and 

movies of ND football highlights was handled 
without a snag, for which John Doerr, John 
Eagan, Chudc Clauss and Tony Rocoo must be 
duly complimented. Many ND rooters from 
near and far attended, including Tom McViegh 
from neighboring Salamanca, New York. 
The first monthly meeting of 1952 was held 

on January 21 at the Sheraton. The main sub­
ject for discussion was our local Club's presen­
tation of the Glee Club in the Kleinhans Music-
Hall here in this City on April 18. This will 
be their second annual appearance under our 
support. Frank G^ione, who comes to us 
from the St. Louis Club, has been appointed 
Concert Chairman with Tony Rocco in charge of 
publicity. The second item of importance w*as 
the forthcoming election of directors and ofBcers. 
The four directors leaving office are Paul 

Sheedy, Boh Nagd, Jack Shine and Maury 
Qninn. The nominating committee was formed 
consisting of Marty Ryan, Carlos Frank, Jim 
Clanss auid BiU Menard. 
Al Ryan, former N D Alumni Secretary and a 

prominent Buffalonion, was selected as our Club's 
recommendation for National Alumni Director. 
Jim Clauss. 

Buffalo 
Antlwnr Brick, Jr., '36, is the new Buffalo 

Club President, elected at the Feb. 19 meeting 
of the Club. Others are: Jama T. .Clauss, *47, vice-president. Donald Jaooln, '34, treasurer. Rjdiard Tboes, '39, -secretary. Directors named to ser\'e for three years: Dcmald Jaoobi, Ridlard Tboen, \VilIiam B. Lawless, Jr., James Seymour. 
Cincinnati 
One of the most eagerly awaited events of the Christmas season, our Annual Scholarship Ball \vas held on Friday, December 28 at the Hotel Netherland Plaza. Again this year, the dance was a great success, literally bigger and better than ever, resulting in an additional increase to our scholarship fund which at this time is assist­ing two boys who are students at th= University. 
Cincinnati's Club Prtsident Howard JUrfum, Moose Krausc, Frank Leahy and Rev. The­odore M. Hcsburgh, C.S.C., at the NCAA meeting. 
Taking the bows for the success of the dance is Bill Grafc, the General Chairman. Bill's Com­mittee included Jim Bnrke, John Fead, Tom Geile, Bob Leonard, Jim Clarfc, Ed Menmaa, Frank Pduso, Bert ScUocmer, Bob McCafferty, Dr. Ed Glaser, Ray Gudmens and Bob Jolmoa. 
Possibly the most pleasant strictly Notre Dame affair in the history of the dub was the cock­tail party given in honor of all the coaches who are alumni of the University, in attendance at the NCAA Convention the week of January- 7. 
Alumni Durctor Joe Morrusey and "Bocfcy" O'Connor were co-chairmen of the party at which some of the guests were Father Hcibari^, Ath­letic Director Ed **Moo9e" Kranse, Head Coadi Frank W. Leahy, Bemic Crimmim, BaU Eariey, Adam Walsh, Hu ^ De\-ore, Francis Wallace, Jimmy Phclan, Joe Bach and many other "greats" of Notre Dame. We, here, were very honored and happy to have them all with us and to be able to renew old acquaintances. . We certainly hope they all will get back scxin again. 
Plans for our Universal Notre Dame Night Celebration are going ahead under the oqtable direction of Ray Gudmens and Bob Boaikarap. They promise us a great UND night party to which members' wives and guests arc to be in-rited for the first time. 
Denver 
A cocktail party u-as held on January 10 at the Brown Palace Hotel for Notre Darners and Wives in honor of Walter O'Keefe; Class of 1918 who came to Denver to preside as roaster of cere­monies at the dedication of the New Denver Coliseum. 
President Robert Flyiw, Jim Logon, Class of 1918, and Jim Hanlon, Class of 1918, were en the welcoming committee. The Cocktail party was a tremendous success. Dr. Dajl Mona^ian and Eugene Blish were in charge of the affair and assisted by Robert Flynn, .Art Gregory, Jin Shechan and Tom Gargan, 
The regular monthly meeting of tlie Denver Notre Dame' Club was held January 24 at the Leyden-Chiles-Wickeisham Post No. 1 of • the American Legion. A dinner preceded the meeting held in the dining hall. 
Initial plans were made for Universal Notre Dame. Night. The Club plans to make this year's -affair the best ever. 
At this meeting Gerald Smitb was re-appointcd Chairman of the Scholarship Committee. Other members are John V. Coyne, Robert Flyira, Jna Hanlon and Charles Haskell. Tom Gargan, sec­retary, r-ported that the new 1952 Club Directory would be mailed February 1. 
Detroit 
On Dec.. 9 we had aa extremdy laeeesifal Aaaual CniiMiniiiB BreakbiK, with aa attcaiaace of laO. U aamtr. >. . '43, aad Jota W. Brr—••, '28, were co-chairaMa at all anaac.­ments. 
Onr speaker at the breakiast was Falkr Mtnt Mfafcf, C.S.C.. who did a mamloai job of mixiag hnmor n d caapns life %itih aa i^to-date report of Notre Dane as it is today. Ai Ckj^ lain of Vetville oa the caaqMB he is ia iatiaute toocfa with student thinking. 
Our next aaaual event was the Annual Notre Dame Club of Detroit Retreat at Muicsa, the Jesuit Retreat Hbue north of Detroit. DlB Heary and Art Cnaia were axhaimea oi' the event, which extended. frtm February 29 to March 2. 
O B Feb. 5 the Detroit Times held its Aaaual Downtown Quarterbacks Banquet in Man^ir Temple. There were in attendance sooe 1,200 sports enthusiasts. We had a pretty solid ptugian during which many awards were auKle for Coach of the Year, Maa of the Year, Tean at the Year, etc, irat oar owa Moose Kranse receiwd an award for the part he played ia makiiw it possible for Notre Dame to |day Uaivervty o£ Detroit here in Detroit duriag the dty's 250lh birthday cekbratioa. He was presented with a suitably inscribed plaque. 
Leoa'Ibit was introdaced at the banquet, and the annooacement was made that Leoa has a new son, William Edward, bom Feb. 4. Leon wa> also best maa at the wedding of his .friend and teammate, 101 Wi^tkin. 
Fort Laadcrdal* 
New officers were elected at the Club's last meeting, Jan. 2. They are: 
Ji n Evert, '4S, Fkcsidcat 
Webb MankaD, '4«. Vice-rkeadeat 
R. H. GoR, Jr., 'SI, Tfcanrcr • George H. Gorc^ 48, Secretary '48 nearly swept the SehL 
Francii Mon, of Ft. Lauderdale, though not aa. Alumnus was elected Honorary President of the Club in recognition of his outMtMn£mg servic s and loyalty to this Oob and to the Uuversity of Notre Dame throoghout the entire past history of the Club. 
The election meeting followed a very rnjoyable dinner, at which visitors Jin ('48) aad Betty Atldnsoa, of Ozone Park, N. Y., were spedal guests. 
After the elections the Clidb voted to dange the meeting date of the Club to the first Thursday of each month, fma the present schedule, under, which meetings ate held on the first Wedaesday of each month. 
For inforautioa of visiting Alumni, the meetings ­are held at the Govemon' Club Hotel, aad the Club extends a welcooe to any Alumni who may be in this area. 
The Feb. 7 mtytillg. featured a menu of roast suckling p^ , this iMicaey bring provided by Mr. Fn d Staatt. '12. 
Grand Rapids 
The Grand Rapids dob's annual f^'Mn"^''*''*" Breakfast guest speaker on De c 16 was\:Rcr. Joha H. Mavby. C:S.C., viceiiresident in charge of public relations for .the University. 
The observance was held in St. James* Church 
Oae of dw tables at tke Calamet CkA'a Aaaual Ghristmas Party. 
and auditorium, witli John I. Flanagan as chairman. Comntittcc members were £d AIcDcr­nott, Ed Dunn and Joe Kdly. Approximatcly 100 men attended. Rc%*. Specr Strahan, Club Chaplain, was celebrant of the Mass. 
Next scheduled event for the Club is Universal Xotre Darae Night, April 21. The Club has received a commitment from Ed "Moose" Krausc, Director of .\thletics at the University. "Moose" will be making his first public appearance with our Grand Rapids Club. 
Kansos City 
A television Football Party, a Connininiun Breakfast, Notre Dame Alumni Promotion of the Kansas Crt>' Polio Drive and a club dinner after a showing of "Highlights of the 1951 Football Season" have been the chief activities of the Kansas Cit>- Alumni Club since tlie last reporting. 
About 75 alumni and friends gathered at the Olatlie Naval Air Station late in the afternoon of December 1 to view the first nationwide west-to-east telecast of a sports event — the Notre Damc-Southcm California football game. Tlic use of the Officers' Clue at the Air Station was gen­erously provided by Capt. James H. FlatU-y, Station Commander. 
Tliosc of you who saw the telecast of the game probably credit young Quarterback Ralph Gugli­dmi with a good, share of the credit for the fourth quarter drives that brought eventual vic­tory*. Now, we don't want to minimize anyone's contribution, but the team and organized cheering corps in front of the television screen at the Naval Air Station may have expended as much effort as the team playing Southern Cal in the 1.0S Angeleit Coliseum. 
In addition to protecting Guglielmi on his pass­ing and warning John Petitbon of potential tacklcrs on his port or starboard sides, we arc proud to report that one of our members threw what the sportscastcrs term the "key block" on Trojan Halfback Srars to shake John Lattner loose for his touchdown. We are presently con­sidering a date for our own football banquet, presentation of monograms and the election of next fairs TV Football Captain. 
Among the alumni present and vigorously par­ticipating \\-ere Bob Mcunier, Bob Schramm, Ed .Aylward and Bill McLccse. Congratulating the perspiring members of the Kansas City Squad after tlie game were Ben Oakes, Bob and Joan Metzler, Bamey and &far)' Louise Quirk, Ed and Shirle>' Rcardon, Tom and Marcelline Pcndei^ast, Dcm and Mrs. Ryan, Tom and Dorothy Reardon and Dr. D. M. Nigro. 
An old high school shoulder injur\- kept Treas­urer Didc Prezebcl out of this last game of the 
season. Club President Oakes served in the ca­
pacity of Field Judge, called two defensive holding 
penalties on us and narrowly escaped being the 
first participating ctistomer of the '1952 season in 
the Station's open-air swimming pool. 
The Club held its annual Communion Break­

fast on Sunday, December 9, 1951. Mass was 
celebrated in the Rockhurst College Chapel and 
the forty members attending gathered for break­
fast in the dining room of the Twin O ^ Apart­
ments after Afass. In the crowd for breakfast 
were Joe and Edna Stewart, Otto Schmid, Bob 
and Joan Bctzler, Gcoi ^ and Betty Kopp, Bob 
and Rose Mctmierf Joe and Maryhclen Van Dyke, 
Frank and Mrs. Grimaldi and Charles and Mrs. 
Stevenson. 
Eddie O'Connor's wife, Kathleen, seemed glad to see Eddie acting as unofficial Club Chaplain by saying Grace and he was assured that he could rely on prompting from Ed AylH-ard, Russ Farrell, Don Ryan and Bemie Finucanc in case of an emergency'. Closely checking O'Connor's delivery %verc Dr. D. M. Nigro, Chuck FrizeU, Dick Prezebcl, Dr. Al Nigro, Glen Findlcy and Bill McLeese. 
A rebellion seethed about O'Connor after break­fast when a motion from the floor offered the plan to rotate the post of Chaplain among the membership but Bob Schramm, £d Reardon and Ed Noonan joined the group supporting O'Con­nor to provide the necessary majority. 
The porch light went on at 7 P.M. on the evening of Wednesday, January- 30, and In tlie next hour most of the homes in the greater Kansas City area were convassed by 15,000 volun­teer workers in the "Mothers' Marcli on Polio." The Kansas City Alumni of Notre Dame offered their services to the local Polio headquarters and was assigned to the task of collection from ten of Kansas City's downtown hotels. 
In a letter to Ben Oakes, Club President, the Chairman and Director of the Polio Drive con­gratulated the Kansas City Notre Dame Alumni for their unsolicited aid in the campaign. The Notre Dame .\lumni Club was the first men's organization to offer its services In the campaign and the ONLY alumni group in the Kansas City area to do so. 
Dick Prezebcl headed the group of alumni who volunteered their services for the Polio Drive. The otlicr alumni who participated in the collecting were: Len LeCluysc, Bob Shramm, Tom Higgins, Gene Murray, J. J. Murray, Ed Noonan, Ed O'Connor, Harold Quinlan, John Trave, Herb Zeigler, Bob Druling and Dave Crooks. 
These alumni provided the effort for some of the most favorable publicity ever given to Notre Dame in this area where alumni of miscellaneous state unixersities outnumber ND alumni scveial thousand to one and newspaper publicity is gen­erally provided in the same proportion. 
.AGAIN, with the cooperation of Captain Flat­ley of the Naval Air Station at Olathe (this 
Ciipt^i" FUtley could win the ''Best Friend of 
Notre Dame" title around here %idthout unbut­
toning his jacket!), the Club journeyed out to the 
Air Sution on February 9 to see the "Highlighti 
of . the 1951 Football Season." A crowd of aliout 
seventy-five enjoyed the pictures and then moved 
in on the now-famous Air Station's buffet dinner. 
Joe and Edna Stewart and Marie Smith joined 

Joe and Mn . Shau^inessy in the front row and­
didn't miss a play when the pictures were being 
shown. One t^lc included John and Mrs. Mc­
Grath and Bill Gibson and wife (both couples 
up from Sedalia), Norm and Fred Bowes, Ed and 
Katie O'Connor and Bfib and Peg Barry. 
The party marked the first appearance in over 

a year of the Club's representative in the 
Marines — Jim Metzler, recently back from Korea. 
Jim's wife, Kay, was with him. 
Bob and Joan Metzler, Dick and Dariene Pre­

zriid, Dick and Kay Bowes, Tom and Betty 
login s and the Jim Aylwards listened atten­
tively to the "Hike Song'* as rendered by the 
Tom Rcardons, Bemie Finucanc and two Navy 
Choristers who remain unidentified up to this 
time except for their abilities to fit in as first 
and second tenors. (Most of us were hoping that 
somehow a Notre Dame touchdoun could be 
clipped from another game and spliced into the 
Michigan State pictures. No such luck, thougli 
— final score of movies was the same as the game: 35-0). 
The Club continues to hold weekly luncheons a: the FAMOUS Restaurant and attendance lias picked up a little. All brethren passing through arc assured of congenial company and a ian right arm reaching for the chetJc. This off^er is good for THIRTY DAYS ONLY. It's cver%­THURSDAY, 12 noon. 
Plans are being completed for Universal Notre Dame night which the Club will probably cele­brate a week early because of our good forttme in having Father Cavanaugh present in Kansas City the week of April 14 if he attends the Cosvention of the N.C.E.A. 
Richard J. Bowes 

Mon-Volley 
About 15 members of the Monongahcla Valley Club — in southwestern Pennsylvania —~ gathered at Seton Hill College (for women) in Grcensburg, Pa., on Wednesday, January 16, where they en­joyed a brief \isit with the Most Re%-erend John 
F. O'Hara, C.S.C., Archbishop of Philadelphia. 
The Archbishop was in Greensburg to install the Most Re\-erend Hugh L. Lamb as the first Ordinary of the recently created dj'cese of Greensburg. Archbishop O'Hara, formei popular Prefect of Religion and president of the Univer­sity, took time out of a tight schedule to have a chat with a^ipro.ximately 35 alumni of both the Mon-Vallcy club and the Pittsburgh Club. Even though the visit was, of necessity, brief, every one felt amply repaid for the opportunity to say hello to Father O'Hara, which is how every one addressed him — from force of habit. 
Miami 
Jerame P. "Jorry" HoUand was seated as Presi­dent of the Notre Dame Alumni Chib of Greater Miami at the installation of officers Banquet held on Thunday night, January 31, at Smith Brothers Restaurant. The remaining officers installed were Fred FSowaty, First Vice-President, Ed Kelly, Second Vice-President, and Fred Jones, Secretary-Treasurer. The neiv officers were elected for the years 1952-1953. 
I. I. IVobst and Faris N. Cowart assumed tlie offices of directors for three year terms. Walter Kowlands announced that the Board of Directors will hold the annual election for the Chairman­ship of the Board on a date soon to be announced. 
The installation affair was well conducted and planned by the Committee in charge. Faris N. Cowart, long noted for extensive dissertations, dosed out his last official act as President of the CliA in a burst of glory. This honor was 
achieved in the brief message submitted to the 
Three non-votos at the Chicago Club's election meeting. Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., chJ}^ members and in his discharge to the new-tight, with Joe Boland (the vest) and Moose Kiause. At left are Luke Tieman, 
president. In accepting the gavel, the duties and rt^Himibilities of his new office, Holland ex-
new president, and Al Stcpan, retiring. 
pnssed his appreciation to the members for thr honor bestowed on him, his plans and aims during 
Iiis term in oflice. .^^ , 
Walter Rowlands, present Chairman of the 
Foundation Committee and Board of Directors, 
was introduced by Holland and spoke briefly on 
the Foundation and plans in connection for the 
present year. He expressed his sincere gratitude 
to all those who assisted him as Committee 
members and to those who so graciously contrib­
uted to the Fund. The newly appointed Foun­
dation Committee appointed by Chairman RoW' 
lands for the year 1952 are: Mike Zorovich, Jim 
Armbnister, Ed Kelly, John Fenn, Fred Jones,' 
I. I. Probst, and Paris Cowart, Assistant Chair­man. 
Walter also announced that a banner of the University of Notre Dame, similar to those of Civic organizations, will be presented to the Club at the next monthly meeting. 
BLESSED EVENT 

Freddie Jones and Louise Jones, his spouse, arc 
the very proud parents of a new baby girl. Her 
name is Kathleen Louise, bom on January 17 at 
10:53 a.m. at Doctors Hospital and weighed in at 4 pounds 13 ounces just before the battle began. Freddie says Louise is back in trim but that it will take him some time to get over the ordeal. 
EXTRA 

George Brautigam, the old stand-by, has cast 
his hat in the ring for the post of State's Attor­
ney, ^oc e Giblln, the incomparable, will again 
be a candidate for the Judgeship he now holds. 
It is the opinion of the writer that all alumni 
wish them success and will be in there pitching 
for these two highly respected and truly qualified 
gentlemen. 
Members in attendance: Paul Tully, President of Washington, D. C. Club, Walter Rowlands. Dan Rowlands, Ed Kelly, Ed Hanley, Paris Cow-art, John Fenn, Tom Boyce, Don Smith, Jim Connell, Sr., Jim Connell, Jr., Vince Giblin, Hugh McManigal, Mike Gray, L I. Probst, Jim Curry, Jim Armbruster, Mike Zorovich, George Brautigam, Jerry Holland, Fred Jones, Fred Piowaty. 
Mid-Hudson 
The club held its November raec ting, a com­bination dinner-business meeting, at Judie's in Kingston, N. Y. Our popular President, Henry Fisher, made the nec;ssar>' arrangements and a delightful evening was had by all present. Our pet project, "Operation Scholastic," managed to get into full swing and at this writing, we have the Scholastic in nine of the local high schools. The club members feel that the presence of the Scholastic in the various Guidance Departments and Senior Rooms may play a major role for Seniors who are undecided as to where to con­tinue their education — we also encourage other clubs to adopt this plan. 
The December meeting was held at Gibsons Colonial Inn, Poughkeepsie, N. Y, Joe McCabe and his group of men dcscr\'e a pat on the back for their fine job of arranging the details. This was an open meeting — members could bring guests — and after this meeting was over, the feeling that tve would soon have an auxiliary grew by leaps and bounds. The business meeting was very short due to the fact that the members wished to attack the dining tables and also to partake in Holiday festivities. 
The January meeting was held at the Pine Tree Inn, Ncwburgh, N. Y., and the group led by Jim Flanagan made it possible for us to have a gala time. The two major items of business were the Man of the Year Award nominations and the N D Glee Club. The Glee Club project was dropped from the agenda as there was no open date on their itinerary. The Man of the Year Award committee chairman, John Kuhn, met with his group and a candidate was chosen. 
As of this writing, the February meeting will be held at the Hotel Kirkland, Kingston, N. Y., at which time the list of candidates for club offi­cers will be made up and initial plans for Uni­versal Notre Dame night will he set into motion. 
CLUB GOSSIP Howie Mnrdock, aide-de-camp of Joe Boland, 
must be eating high off the hog. Or should I say off of the expense account? 
Bob Shea — now Captain, U.S.A.F., dropped in on the. Xmas meeting to extend hts best wishes. As to his e.xact location, it was listed as unknown. 
Tom Walker was passing out the cigars at a recent meeting — I may be wrong but rumor had it that this is the fourth time he has play.d such a role. 
Nick Amato called to say that he could not make the Xmas meeting. Nick is still at St. Bonnie's and is doing qutte^ a job. 
Ed Blake is eligible for the "commuters award" at thb time as he is now riding the rails from Newburgh to Long Island daily. 
Bob Ortale was selected by the New York State Bar .Association — Young Lawyers Section — to a chair on the Committee on Legal Aid and Lawyers Reference Section. 
New York 
.After all precincts were heard from the ballots sliowed our new President to be Herb Gior^ , '32 . . . and a nicer guy we couldn't have selected. Herb succeeds Jim AfcGoldrick, '39, who was re­cently elected to the National Alumni Board . . . and our prayers for success to both. 
The other but still essential details were allotted to Jim Clynes, '45, Secretary and Frank Conforti, Treasurer. Vice Presidencies went to Al Perrine, '41, John A. Hoyt, '33, Jordan Hargrove, '35, Jim McGoldrick, '39, and Bill Furlong, '47. Bill Talbot, '44, and Kev Carley, '48, are assistants Sccrctao' and Treasurer respectively. 
\Icmbers of the Board of Governors this year are: Herb Giorgio, '32, John Duffy, '44, Ed Beckman, '16, Phil Shea, '49, Greg Rice, '39, Al Perrine, '41, John MacCaulcy, '41, Jim Shcxls, '35, Tim O'Rourke, '31, Jim Clynes, *45, Bob Reale, '43, Walt Desel, '42, BiU Talbot, '44, Bob Walsh, '47, and Bill Fallon, '37. This is a pretty good spread in years and gives the 1700 or so fellows in the club a good coverage as well as those coming in from out of town to get in touch with. 
Plans for the next six months at least shape up to about the follou'ing: February- brings our annual Basketball Luncheon at Toots Shor's where we hope to liave Frank Leahy, Moose Krause, Johnny Jordan and Howard Cann (NYU coach) and the HiLight Films of the '51 season. This is usually a wlng-dii^ affair in the usual and capable nands oC Chairman Jack Hoyt. ' Somebow or other the hincheon always seems to stretch out into the game that m'ght at Madison Square Garden, and this year should be bo exception. 
The Annual Retreat on March 21-23 in Jamaica at the Monastery will take the place of oar usual monthly meeting and this is being handled by Heib Gio^o, our new Pendent, ^iril will be the big month for the first part of the year . . . that is, with Universal Notre Dame Night on the 2!st or thereabouts. 
Plans for this event arc still tentative and can't be announced as yet . . . but that's for another issue here anyway. The meeting for the Month of May will probably be dupensed with and ccn­centration given to the June meeting before the summer recess of activities. More to the members about each event will b; forthcoming in their persona] mail . . . and more to the column here after they happen. 
Philadelphia 
In an ancient, solemn' ceremony, ICs Excd* IcBcy, Most Rev. John F. CHara, C.S.C, DJ)., ']], was installed as Archbishc^ of Philadc^bia at the Cathedral of Ss. Peter and Paul, on Jan­uary 11. 
The massive Cathedral was filled to overflowing with prominent figures from every walk of life. The occasion marked the largest gatherung of the American Hierarchy in the hutory of the ArcJi­diocese. 
On th; following evening, a Civic Testimonial to the Archbishop was held in Convention Hall. Governor John Fine and Mayor Joseph S. Clark officially welcomed His Excellency on behalf of the Commonwealth and the City. 
Members of the Philadelphia Cltd> were indeed fortunate in being present on both occasions. The manner in which His Excellency has endeared hinuelf to his new flf>ck, and the way in which thry have taken him to their hearts is particu­larly edifying, althou^ not at all surprising to those of us who knew and remember our beloved "Father O'Hara" in our days 'neath the Golden Dome. 
We of Notre Dame in Philadelphia join with the million others under his .direct spiritual con­trol in wishing him every blessing, and in happily anticipating many years of his saintly example and leadership. 
dropped in to say Hello over the vacation period. He is teaching at Purdue and also seeing quite a That's a gavel, Jerry. Fans Cowart hands the Mianu Chib's persuader to new president 
bit of the U.S.A. following the Fighting Irish 
Jerry Holland. Standing, L to R: Fred Jones, secretary; Edward A. KcQy, secMid vice 
during the football season. He is a little on the 
"plump" side which indicated that he and Boland president; Fred Piowaty, first vice-president, and Walter Rowlands, board chairman. 
March-April, 1952 
January 27 marked the ap""?! banquet af the Men of Malvcm, the lay retreat group hcrc^ of which most of our alumni arc members. What witli Ardibishop O'Hara and Coach Frank Leahy being the featured speakers, it turned out to be quit^ a Notre Dame affair. 
The annual elections 'were held at the regular Januarx- meeting. Joseph P. Cattle, Jr., '41, was reelected Presid.nt, while Leonard H. Tosc, "37, was named Veep. John H. Nccson, Jr., '33, is Treasurer, while Joha P. Dempscy, *49, >vas elect.d Secretary-, and Clifford E. Prodehl, '32, Recording Secretary. New members of the Board of Governors are the Afessrs. Cattie, Tose, Wil­liam Whiteside, '51, Walter R. Ridley-, '31, and William G. Bums, '40. Their terms are for two years, and they join the august company of Ambrose F. Dudley, '43, Charles J. McKimiey, '29, and the aforementioned Neeson, Prodehl and Dempse>', whose terms expire in 1953. 
Plans for Universal Notre. Dame Night arc-being formulated by Chairman Lcn Tose. Tin-Grand Ballroom of the Benjamin Franklin Hotel has already been reserved for the evening of .-^ril 24, and Lcn is busily rounding out a !.late of prominent gursts and speakers. 
Bud Dudle>', Foundation Chairman, reports that 1951 was one of the best yet, as far as Phila­delphia is concerned. This happy state of affairs is due primarily to the time and the encrg>- that Bud has devoted to his task. Incidentally, that gentleman, in addition to his Foundation duties and his annual Chairmanship of the Communion Breakfast, has charge of the activities for the big ND-Penn weekend in September. Bex'ond tliis, he has represented the Club at over 100 banquets, luncheons, communion breakfasts and the like dur­ing the past several years. He's a man — a real Notre Dame man — is this Mr. Dudley, of the Class of '43 and the Dudley Wallpaper Co. 
The ND baskc^all team plays Pcnn at the Palestra on February 26, and the GIcc Club is due during Easter week, so there are several gala evenings in store. Mor.* about them next time. 
Pittsburgh 
.About twenty members of the local group drove to Grcensburg, Penn5>'lvania, on January- 16, to informally welcome and greet Ardibisfaop John F. 0*Hara of Philadelphia, who officiated at the in­stallation of Bishop Lamb of the new Greensburg diocese. 
Archbishop O'Hara individually cliatted with each member of our delegation, and interrupted his regular schedule to be conducted to the special parlor where the members were awaiting him. .All Pittsburgh alumni wish him every suc­cess in the w*or]d in his new work in Philadelphia. 
The meeting was a combined endeavor ^vith a delegation from the Monongahcla Valley Club and we believe it is a good thing to demonstrate joint action (Kcasionally. 
John Brtley went to some pains to personally follow through on thes: arrangements, and to ke ^ in touch with the Monongahcla Valley group. 

Aidibishop John F. O'Hara and Hc^ Coach Frank Leahy at the Men of Malvern Dinner in Phihdelphia. 
Archbishop John F. O'Hara, CS.C., and membeis of the Monongahcla Valley (Pennsylvaaia) Chib. 
Among others present were Gene Co>iie, Leo Vogel, Frank McSoriey, Dr. Leo O'Donnell, Dr. Frank Hegarty, Vince Burke, Hugh Gallagher, Hugh Bo^e, Jim Devlin, Pinky Martin, Regb Kuhn, Joe Kurth, Bob Fulton, Ben Kaiser, and several others, as well as the Monongahcla Valley representatives. 
San Diego 
Needless to say the ND Club from this fair 
far west city thoroughly enjoyed the Notre Dame 
victory' on December 1, at th= expense of the 
Univ. of Southern California. Some of the U.S.C. 
fans got a hit damp but the sun was shitiing 
mighty bright on our side of the coliseum. 
We were glad to welcome five new Notr^ Dame men to our club who have recently moved to San Diego: Ralph Weber, Ernie Kling, John Mc­De\itt, Capt. Ed Gallagher and Comdr. John Rieder. .All have joined us in our monthly get­togethers and arc helping us build a bigger mad better club to represent the University in this comer of the United States. 
Our Communion Sunday at the Cathedral on December 9 w*as very well attended and an in­formal gab-fest over coffee and donuts was en­joyed by all. Main ' topic—of course, was the previous profitable Sunday in Los Angeles. 
The holiday social was spent at Pres. Win Day's residence where an open house was held for all members and honorar>- members. The hospitable Days entertained from noon until after midnight. To keep things int'rcsting a couple of jugs were raffled off along with a beautiful tie donated by Phil Martin with a bit of sharp persuasion. 
On Januar>- 30, our semi-annual dinner dance was held at Camp Kidd Officers Club as guests of Comdr. Geoi ^ O'Malley. George had things well planned and we all enjoyed a delicious dinner of prime ribs of beef plus a pleasant evening of dancing. The lucky O'^fallcys went home with a nice new radio this time, ^vhich was the prize offered that night by the club. They will undoubtedly win all the cash at the Bingo party to be held on Feb. 25 too. If w*e do as well as we did last year at the big Bingo party everybody will be happy and Howard Beilstdn will be able to treat us all to a cold brew. 
Our next big meeting will he a stag affair on March 26 when we will have election of officers and plan for a great Universal Notre Dame Night April 29. 
Schenectady 

The officers and members of the club are now making plans for our Universal ND Night cele* bration. Everyone is hoping that we can surpass the fine affair that was held last year at the Edison Club with Father Charles E. ShttAr, C.S.C., giving an outstanding speech. An effort is being made to contact every. ND man in the area for this affair. 
During the month of December two successful affairs were held. First, our annual Communion Breakfast, - Sunday, Dec. 9, at the Hotel \^an Curler with Father Albert J. Hcinzer, CS.C , addressing the group. The second affair, our annual Holiday Formal. Dec.. 28, at the LCKO-motive Club, was a huge success with many alumni, students and friends attending. 
The Schenectady club has lost one of its most loyal members and hardest working officers within the past two months. Our Vice-President, Bob Edud, '49, has been transferred to the G.E. plant at Lockland, Ohio. Cincinnati boys take notice.— grab Bob for h: was a ver>* efficient ofi5cer, hard worker and great booster — he will make you an excellent member. 
Dan Canha, *35, is leading his Siena cagers to another great R'ason. To name some of the BIG games that they have won — Seton Hall. Man­hattan twice, Fordham, Oklahfxna City, and Canuius. Wouldn't a Siena-Notre Dame game in Albany be a star from heaven for us Notre Dame grads in the area? 
I^rry Webs, '37, is servine as District Deputy of the 41st Ne%v York District Knights of Columbus. 
IVendent and Mrs. William' G. Leonard. '49. arc the proud parenU of a girl, Mary Kathleen, January 19. 
A son, David Paul, was bom' to Paul and Joan Dee, '51, Nov. 6. 19.=.!. 
South Jersey 
The Notre Dame Club of South Jersey held its annual Mardi Gras Party at Kcnney's Restaurant in Camden on February 22. 
Chairman for the affair was Bill McCormick, '47, of Woo(&ury. Committee members were Matt Sicdlfcfcl, '49. of Camden and Matt Cam­paMlIa, '49, of West Collingswood. 
The party was held in real mardi gras style with dancing and a cami\*al atmosphere. About 100 persons attended. 
Plans are now under way for Universal Notre Dame Night. No definite speaker conunitmcnts have been made, but we're looking forward to an excdlent program. 
A sprinK outing for all members and their families will be held some time in May. 
We're happy to welcome Tom Rourkc, '47, Haddonfidd aiid Joe O'Brien, Gloucester, into the fold. 
Remember, South Jersey Alumni, meetings are e\'ery third Thursday at Kenney's Restaurant in Camden. 
St. Loiis 
Followring, a brief resume of the St. Louis Club activities since last Octob- r: 
The Annual Raffle to raise funds for ou*- Schol­arship Fnad was held October 9, netting the Fund ^bout |1,200. Many thanks to Bod Haber^ ken, as this was an exceptionally fine job, con­sidexinif this affair had to be haniUed on the Q.T. 

Next followed the Football Trip to the Southern Methodist Game, which resulted in an income to the Club of $2,500. It was the largest group we ever had on this trip with an attendance of 250. 
The train left St. Louis Friday nite with a special party on the train, as it was leaving St. Louis. 
After the game the party stayed in Chicago o%'er nite, and returned to St. Louis Sunday. A grand time was had by all, thanks to the untir­ing efforts of Jmtk Giiffin ai ^ ably assisted by ViBce FeUig and Fxcd McNeiU. 
On December 3 the Annual Club Communion 
Breakfast took place with about 50 members at­
tending. The Mass was celebrated by the Chap-
Iain of the Club, Father WHliam Reeves. After 
the Mass the members adjourned to the Candle­
light House for breakfast, where they were ad­
dressed by Father Bowdem of th:: St. Louis Uni­
versity. This was a very fine affair, thanks to 
Frands Roth. 
Tlic next big event was the Christmas Dance held December 28 in the Tiara Room, at the top of the Park Plaza Hotel. The affair was attended by about 230 Alumni and guests, as well as 30 students and their friends home for the Christmas Holidays. Everyone certainly must have had a fine time from the looks of the overtime bill for music. Thanks to Bill Ruoff for putting on a swell party. 
Our next venture was new to the Club. On January 25 we sponsored a concert by the Notre Dame Glee Club which was given in Kiel Auditorium, with about 1200 Patrons in attendance. Following the concert a reception for the Club and Guests of the Alumni was given In the Garden Room of the I.enox Hotel. This was .one of the finest parties the Club has e\-er had thanks to the vcr>-fine performances by the Glee Club. 
Wc believe the University should be very proud of this organization as they are really tops. As mentioned above this was otu* first attempt at a venture of this kind, and the Club wishes to acknowledge the fine efforts of the committee in making this event a success. Thanks to Al Ravarino, Tom Hcnnigan, George Convy, Frank PbUnow. Bob Hdlrung, Jim O'Neill, Bill Ruoff and Ed Gricscdieck. 
We hope, to make this an annual affair and in time, if it continues to hz successful, supplement it for the rafile as a means of raising funds for the Scholarship Fund. 
Our next event will be the Basketball Game between Notre Dame and St. Louis University on Fcbruarji* 9. Wc are planning a luncheon in honor of the team and coaches, at the Jefferson Hotel, prior to the game. Hope we win this one. 
St. Joe Valley 
The Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley has mapped out a most interesting and ambitious schedule for the spring months and it is hoped that we will have a record participation in these varied activities. 
The Club will honor Knute Rockae on March 30 with its Annual Memorial &fass and Rockne Communion Breakfast in the Lay Faculty Dining Room. On April 18 the Notre Dame Villagers and the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Club will sponsor jointly a dance in the Bronzewood Room of the Hotel LaSalle. This social occasion will afford an excellent opportunity for all club mem­bers to get better acquainted with the local boys now in school. 
.April 21 being Universal Notre Dame night, the Club will hold its traditional dinner in the Faculty Dining Room and we especially encourage club members to bring their wives for this oc­casion. 
A high point in our spring schedule is Father Cavanaugh night. May 20. Present plans call for the holding of this informal meeting in the new Morris Inn and all club members are encouraged to attend as we would like to honor Father Cavanaugh with a record turnout. 
Wednesday, June 18, has been set aside for our annual golf tournament and dinner. It isn't too early to start making up your foursome for the tournament which this year will be played on the University course. 
Toledo 
Toledo Club activity since December has reached a "modem" all-time high. Participation in the Club's programs, both those restricted to members, and those <^>en to friends, has been on the ups^^-ing. 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, back in December, was the Toledo organization's first winter-season activity. Dr. Geurge llatcs wax chairman of the program, assisted by-Jack Solas, who served as toastmaster. About sixty Clnb members received communion in a body at the Rosary Cathedral's high mass that day, and nearly 100 people were on hand for the breakfast. Guest speaker for the occcsion was the Most Rev. George J. Rearing, S.T.D., Bishop of Toledo. This was the Bishc^'s first meeting with the Club. 
This past year's Christmas Dance was one of the most successful in the history of the Club. Approximately 213 couples filled the Grand Ball­room of the Commodore Perry Hotel the night of Dec. 28, ' to dance to the music of Jimmy Rohr's band. Dick Doooghue was general dance chairman, assisted by Chariie Sclura, Art Soder, Dick Kopf, Jim Detzlcr and Jack Makiae. Indi­vidual table decorations consisted of traditional candles and evergreen. A roving photograqiber took pictures at every table during the evening. 
The Club's Stag Party honoring Old Timers was held in the K. of C. Clubrooms, Feb. 1. An evening of cards was topped off by the present!^ tion of gifts to all Old Timers — those in the class of 1925 and before. Sixty-five members, guests and friends attended the party, including Tommy Sexton, great friend of Notre Dame and nationally known polio victim. Bill Morta l was head of the program, aided by Harry Hoffmaa, George Korfaumel, Dick Tillman and Chnck CooMs. 
The Old Timers honored included James J. Cooney, William L. Beckman, George F. Covert, John C. Cochrane, Paul J. Dooley, Steve A. Fazekas, John P. Huricy, Bernard G. Kcstittg, Frank R. Lockhard, Robert J. Mithen, Harold H. Munger, Joseph L. Tillman, Ray L. Tillman and Emery S. Toth. 
Jam Cooney, considered to be the Dean of the Toledo Club Old Timers, was presented with a special plaque in honor of the occasion. Jim, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1893, has been an active member of the Notre Dame Club for many years. He is a consistent spectator at Notre Dame football games, no matter where they are played. 
Bob Welly was chairman of a Club Square Dance held Feb. 15, and open to all Notre Darners and their friends. Seventy couples at­tended. This marked the second square dance put on by the Club in the past five months. Both have been well attended. Members ap­peared in informal attire, prepared for four hoars of fun — and hard work! 
The Club's first Lenten activity was a retreat to the Manrcsa Jesuit Retreat House in Detroit. The trip coincided with the Detroit Club's pil­grimage to Manresa. Bill Syring and a dozen other Toledoans made the week-end trip. 
ATTENTION ALL EX-ST. JOE HALLERSl 
ASK FLO FOR A PER TO ATTEND THE ST. JOE HALL REUNION JUNE 6, 7 and 8 
A letter giving details will be sent to you before March 1. If you don't receive one, send your present address to Jim Arm­strong, Alumni Secretary. 
DINKY LIST NEXT ISSUE 

Virginia 
Notre Dame alumni in Virginia met recently at Roanoke to organize the Foundation on a state-wide basis. The two-day session included discussion on many phases of the Foundation program. 
Those in attendance were (see page 10): Frank Stumpf, assistant t:hairman, Richmond; Frank Albert, city chairman, Covington; Thomas. J. Hils, State Publicity Chairman; John^ CacUey, representing Notre Dame; Paul M. Morrison, State Governor; Anselm D. Miller, former State Gover­nor; Charles Morrison, president of the Virginia Alumni Club, Richmond; William J. O'Sullivan, Hampton; Thomas Morrison, city chairman, Lynch­burg; Charles Hutchens, Jr., city chairman, New­port Ncws-HaavUMi area, aad Edwavl B. Savli^ CbaiiMaa of Sute Speakcis BWCM, KidaMsi. Edwvd Frhif* , MartmnriBe, was dbteat wfctk. picture WH 
Wesfwra WashiagtMi 
Tweaty-fonr miaittm of Ibe Notre. Daae Clab of Westora Wuhiagtoa pntiriftttA'm tbe AB­nual Notre Daae iimu, Ccamummi, aad bnak­fast, in hoMT of the Feait of the faawlitr Coaceptioa, oa De c 9, at St. James Cathedral, Seattle. 
EinKtt I raaia. Fomadataoa State Gorcfaor. W n Tieoer. of the Claa of 1901, Gmim N,tR^ of the Class of 1904, and Coionel Geatga J. ScUn, of the Class of 1927. were aaio ^ the faithfuL Coloael SchS is prcseatly. CoawiaiHaK Officer in charge of ROFC at Seattle Uanetsity. Mr. daytoa Walton, praaiaent Catholic lar­man, was guest qieaker. 
Fred N. Haemr, ' « aad '46 was in charge of all arrangements and Jeny Kaae, "38, CUb President, presided at the bieaUast iKeting. Jenr Lee, Joaepb C. Lotta, Joha J. Ckai7> Biiaa Oohertr, aU membeis of the :CIan of '51, were introduced to the Club niemi>efs oa this occasion. 
Oa Feb. 19, a pre-Leatea liinBer. meeting for all Notre Dame Alumni dob members was held at Seattle Umversity. Chfa activities for the en­suing year were on the agenda. •, 
Plans are now in the rough draft stage for the Notre Dame Club of Wcstera Washington ob­servance in Seattle for the 29th Annual UniversaL Notre Dame Night on Monday, April 21. Ar­rangements are being made for a campus speaker and Western Washington Club observance is ea­pected to top all former years relevant to this traditional date. In Seattle, as in .Notre Dame Clubs all over the woild, .it will be Father Cavanaugh Night as well as Universal Notre Dame Night. The committee in charge of ar­rangements will focus particular attention oa Father Cavanaugh's onutanding achievements during his administration. 
YoungstowH 
The Voungstown Notr: Dame Club had a good turnout for the Universal Notre Dame Commnaion and Communion breakftst, Dec 9.' After Mass at St. Columba Cathedral, the club held a break­fast at the Hotel Pick-Ohio. Hev. Donald Reagan, assistant prindpai of Ursuline High. School, and a summer student at Notre Dame, spokt on the Rosary. RtsiJent Frands Hnplrini presided. 
The c]td> arranged a television party De c 1 at the Lyden Oil Co. building, to see the Southern Cal game. 
A team representing the Notre Dame Club competed with a pane] of women from die American Association of University - Women oa "Club Quiz," broadcast over VfFMJ, Youngstown, in November. The boys lost to the gals. 
Williaai G. Lyden, Jr., '50, was ekct:d ptcu­dent of the Youngstowa Clnb Wednesday evening, Jan. 13, at a £nner meeting at the Colonial House. Lyden succeeds Fnacis J. HopkiM, '41, pr-sident for three years. 
Loais C. ColIcraB, '45, vras elected vice-pre»­d.-nt and. Charlci Batler, '43, secretary-treasurer.. 
Joha N. Caddey. '37, Foundation Staff Project Director, spoke oa the Foundation program, and sho%tred campus pictures. 
durles B. Cailnia, Sr., of Youngstowa, beae­factor of Notre Daaie and father of Omdei B. Cnshwa, Jr., 'SI, died of a heart attack in December. 
Mr. Cushwa was president of th; Commerdal Shearing BL Stamping. Co. of Youngstowa aad Commercial Shearing & Stamping, Inc. of Chi­cago. He was a devout Catholic, aad a Kni^ t of St. Gregory. 
He was especially interested in Notre Dame, and had donated a room in th.- new Science Building. He headed the trustees of St. Elizabeth Hospital, aad had beca active in maay religiav and civic programs. 
Rev. Loais Thocatoa, CS.C., Director of Ad­missions, represented the University at the fnaeral,' Dec. 11. Most Rev. Emmett M. Wabh. coadjutor bbhop of Youngstown, celnmted the ICass, aad Bbhop James A. McFaddea presided. 
March-April, 1952 2i 
35 YEAR REUNION 
JUNE 6-7-8 
Edward J. McOifcer, Secretar>­2203 Briarwood Road Cle\-cland Heigiits 18. Oluo 
Leo Vogc] and Leo 0*Donnell have done quite a job of drumming up interest in the 35-Ycar Reunion of the Class of *I7 this June, and have assembled quite a bit of data whicli they've forwarded to your secrclan>\ 
HOWEVER, there have been a number of "unclaimed** members of the class, and also a substantial number **unanswering*'— persons un­reached by letters regarding the Reunion. Some of these "unans^vcring" members may have wrong addresses listed with us — AND witli the Alumnj OfRcc, for wc get our addresses from Jim Arm­strong's records. 
Those for whom we have no addresses ar.' listed here, with their known degrees, in the hope that someone who knows their whereabouts can communicate with your secretary- or with Jim Armstrong: 
Clarence £. Bikers, S.E.E. Fraods J. Carey, Ph.B. John B. Campbell, Jr., B.Arch. Midiael M. ChemidUn Artimr James Goyle, BS. Joseph E. Dorais, LI.B. George N. Hakne, E.E. James Kecgan Frauds M. KirUand, LI.B. Napoleon E. Langlois, S.Comm. \^cent J. Lamb George W. Omadit Paul V. Shiriy John O. Spillane, LI.B. Harold J. Stidmey, S.Com. Riduird H. Tyner, B^.Ch. George F. WindofTer, LI.B. 

In the "unanswcring class" thcrs arc quite a few who, if wc can trust t!ie U-S. mails, were dunned twice — once by letter, once by postcard 
— and who are still not heard from. Here is that list: 
John Baczenas, Edw'ard F. Barrett, Harry C. Baujan, Joe Benziger, Dutch Bergman, Jim Boy-Ian, Father Frauds BroH-n, C.S.C., Harold Cleary, Stanley Gofall, Charlie DiLorenzo, Bill Egan, Father Fred Gasseusmith, C^.C. 
Emmet Hauuoo, Harry Kelly, Frank A. Kicr­nan, Denis Lcary, Leo McGahon, Father Will McNamara, Ebuer Mohan, Father Mike Afulcaire, Mdcfaior Nicmcr, Bcrnie Regan, Frank Rogers, Rigoey Sackley, Ray Schaub, Father Speer Stra­han. Dr. Marion Sullivan, Ed Sylvestre, Lcn Swift and Claude Yockey. 
Wc left Jimmy Phelan off this list, because, although not heard from, Jim is doubtless trotting between his home in Los Angeles and New York, where his football Yanks used to be, and Dallas, where they'll be for the 1952 season. 
Oscar Doritin has received a promotion in the Texas Corporation. Hc*s been made vice-president and general counsel. 
1920 
Ralph \V. Bergman 1609 N. Jeffenon St. Louis 6, Mo. 
"Representative Joseph P. O'Hara is a big friendly Irishman who has learned that persistence pays off in Washington as well as in Minnesota." 
That is the lead paragraph in a Minneapolis Star -stor>- on the representative from Minnesota's 
Second Congressional District. 
The Joseph P. O'Hara referred to is Joe 
O'Hara, LI.B., '20, father of three sons (two of 
them alumni of the University), World War I 
veteran and now in his sixth term in Congress. 
Tlie Star describes Joe's persistence in cam­
paign ing: 
"He was defeated when he ran for probate 
judge in his first bid for public office. He then 
ran for county attorney, and lost again. He ran 
for county attorney a second time. Still no 
success. He filed again, and finally, on his third 
attempt was elected. 
"The same thing happened when he deddcd to 
run for Congress in his district. On his first 
attempt in 1936 he wasn't even nominated. In 
1938 he lost to the incumbent and in 1940 he 
finally made it, defeating the incumbent by 
11.000 votes." 
Joe has been in Congress since, still persisting. 

Three times he introduced what lie believed was 
a vital bill, and the third time it passed both 
houses. That was the legislation outlawing the 
misbranding, false advertising and false invoidng 
of fur coats and fur prYxfucts. As a result, 
there's no more dycd-Hudson-this-or-that. If 
you're buying colored rabbit you know it. 
One O'Hara son, Pat is in FBI work, and 
taking a Master's degree from Catholic U. An­

other, Ed lives in Redwood Falls, Minn., and the 
youngest, Tcrrence is an Air Force corporal in 
Rapid City, South Dakota. 
From L«> Ward, former president of the Alumni .Association, comes word that tlic Los Angeles Alumni Club is putting final toudies to the plans for Universal Notre Dame Night. The Club's guest this year is Rev. John J, Ca\'anaugh, C.S.C., President of the University. 
The observance of 1952 Universal Notre Dame Night in Los Angeles promises the best in the Club's history. 
Leo sends along the following note of sadness: "In the 1920 Class news you might note that Edna McMahon, wife of EdH-ard McMahcn, of the Class of 1920 died in Los Angeles. They were married early in 1950 and on their wedding trip attended the thirty-vear Class Reunion in June, 1950." 
The 1920 Class lost one of its most active members Feb, 2 when Bill Cole died in Minn ;­apolis. He was founder of the St. Paul (Twin Cities) Alumni Club and ver>- active and inter­ested in Alumni work. 
His son. Jack, of Indianapolis, is a '39 gradu­ate of the University. Sur\'iving also are his ^vife, Mrs. Rose Schrcyer Cole, and one brother, Charles W. Cole, Sr., of South Bend. 
1921 
Dan W. Duffy, Secretar>*, 
IIOl NBC BIdg., 
Cleveland, Ohio 
Maurice—the Original Clipper—Smith is back at his California home, on the voluntar\' retired list. The Clipper had been football coadi at Lafayette College, Easton, Pa. He went ther; in 1949, from the Boston Ynaks of the National Football League. 
The Clipper had previously coadied at Gonzaga, Santa Clara and at VilIano\'a. 
Prayers of the '21 Class arc asked for Chet Grant's father. He died in South Bend recently, at the age of 84. 
Placement Director Bill Dooley, '26, apparently can't get reporting out of his blood. He sends along the item that Tom Van Aarle was a recent visitor to the University and specifically to the Placement Office. Tom came in from Saginaw, Michigan, where he's located with Standard Oil. 
Tom has a Mechanical Engineering degree but on this mission was a talent scout, on the lookout for likely prospects for Standard's engineering staff. He interviewed June '52 graduates, through the program set up by Bill Dooley's Placemrnt Bureau. 
30 YEAR 
REUNION 
JUNE 6-7-8 
Gerald A. Ashe, Secretary 
39 Cambridge Street 
Rochester 7, New York 
We of '22 salute our classmate. Dean Clarence 
E. (I^t) Manion, who has announced his resig­nation as Dean of Law at the University, effective with the close of the current scholastic year, as reported in th= last issue of the ALUMNUS. We are very proud of the accomplishments and 
advancements that have taken place during Pat's 
administration, and wc are sorry to sec him go. 
Wc rejoice in the knowledge that Pat will not 
be idle, for he will be \"cry busy with his own 
personal law practice, his WTitings and in making 
speeches on Americanism, for which he is in great 
demand. As Pat doses the Notre Dame phase of 
his career, we see him becoming even greater 
in the national picture. 
Congratulations to Ralph Coryn upon his elec­
tion to the Alumni Board, and to Doctor Matt 
Wets on being promoted to the office of first 
vice-president of the board. We of '22 arc highly 
favored to have two members of our class on tlie 
Board, and wc do heartily thank the electorate 
for their confidence in us. 
Mona Castellini, youngest daughter of A.A. 
(Bill, of happy memory) and Ruth Castellini, be­

came Mrs. Donald Bryson Poynter in marriage 
Feb. 9 at St. Mary's Church, Hyde Park, Cin­

dnnati. We tender our congratulations and best 
wishes to Mr. and Mrs. Poynter, and to Mrs. 
Castellini, mother of the bride. 
Great interest is developing for our 30th Re­
union in June. It was earnestly hoped that we 

could have had names of the Reunion Director 
and committeemen in this issue of the Alumnus 
but an early deadline date prevents that. Let 
there be no mistake about it — the BOYS are 

rarin' to go. 
They are writing in to offer assistance in any way possible, and already more such offers have been recdvcd than w*as the case for our. silver anniversary five years ago. Here and now we exhort all '22 men to persuade their friends and neighbors of '22 to attend. 
If they' are near by, there is nothing like a personal meeting; if far away, use the mail or telephone. As soon as possible, a copy of the class rosier will be mailed to cver\- class member. If anyone can figure out something original, or even a re-hash of something old but good for use as a publicity piece, let him do so. 
For our last reunion wc received some very effective publidty pieces that were outstandingly good. Don't you recall the medidne man number by Han^d MtJCce with airplane campus view, tlic letter to wives and sweethearts prepared by Dan Young*s committc:^, the pen-and-ink sketches of South Bend and the Notre Dame campus by an artist from USC in collaboration with a 1931 ND grad, verse by Bob Galloway and other wonder­ful contributions? 
If you feel the urge. Just go to work—BUT THE TIME IS SHORT! 
Joe Rhombcrg in his undergraduate days at ND, a brilliant studrnt and president of the scnoir dass, writes to give his blessing to the preparations being made for our 30th. Joe is district agent of Northwestern Mutual Life Insur­ance Co. with headquarters in Dubuque, Iowa — his home city. Joe writes: 
**Was glad to read of the interest expressed by others in the 30th reunion next June, and will carry on any correspondence which might be dele­gated to me in these parts. I feel sure that very few of those at our 25th will miss this great e\Tnt, and that a number of those who did not enjoy the fun in '47 because of their absence will be on hand for this one. 
"Brother AI and I plan to be there, and we are trying to inveigle Walt Klauer and Clarence Zwadc to come along. Walt is president of the Klauer Mfg. Co. here while Clarence is a partner with his dad in the construction business. 
"AI resigned as dty manager after a 14-ycar tenure here, because of ill health and to enter the construction field. He has been under doctor's 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

orders for about a year, but b now fully restored 
to health and is proceeding to make arrangements 
for his new work. 
**I met Earl Walsh» who like you, still enjoys 
single blessedness, at the Savery Hotel in Dcs 
Moines a month ago, and he did some promoting 
for the June celebration. Since Fordham discon­
tinued football, Earl returned to the home state 
to practice law in Des Moines. 
"I am going to close like George Hencghan 
did, with the suggestion that you let mc know if 
there is anything I can do, at any time.'' 
Many thanks, Joe, for your fine letter, and 
the kind ofTer. We are delighted to hear that 
your brother Al has been restored to good healtli. 
Right away, we arc going to put you to work. 
Please ascertain the present address of Earl Walsh 
and furnish same to the Alumni Ofiicc. 
Earl is being carried on the rolls as in the 
Bureau of Missing Persons. Maybe in the next 
issue of the ALUMNUS we can pubh'sh names of 
AWOL *22 men ' so our roster will have no 
missing addresses. 
Doctor John F. Kellcy of Utica, New York, 
who was quite spry afooi as a track man at XD 
in our days writes to say he plans to attend 
the 30th. We quote: 
"In looking over the Notre Dame ALUMNUS 
a few nights ago, I noted you arc now making 
plans for our 30th Reunion. I certainly plan to 
go to school for this one. and if there is anything 
I can do to contact any of the men I shall be 
glad to do so. 
''I met Eddie Anderson this spring, and had 
Jim Crowley here a few weeks ago for a high 
school banquet. He is now Ii\'ing in Ithaca, 
New York and has not changed one bit." 
Thanks to you. Doc for your interesting letter, 
and for your offer of help. If you intend to 
motor to Notre Dame, maybe you could pick up 
an old buddy of *22 and bring him along. Some 
of your neighbors are John Meefaan of Schenectady, 
Paul Mulcahy ol Genoa, Jim Jones and Clint 
Lintz of Rochester. Later on you will be fur­
nished a copy of the class roster showing ad­
dresses, so you may be the better enabled to 
contact *22 men. We are certain similar trans­
portation arrangements would greatly increase 
reunion attendance. 
Dan Young is back in Chile again, having been 
summoned in emergenc>' to leave his home in 
Drcxel Hill, Pa., on Dec, 13. Here is a quote 
from part of his letter written in Chuquicamata 
on Jan. 30: 
"After I left here on Sept. I, I went to work 
at La Serena in Chile, then to Santiago, and 
from there to Lima, Peru where I took a few-
days' rest, and then went over the Andes to 
Iquitos on the east side, and down the Amazon 
to our work at Macapa on the northern bank of 
the Amazon. 
"There I spent some time in the jungle countr>­where we are locating a railroad which wc arc now designing to bring out manganese ore from a newly discovered mine. 
"The Church iias missionaries for the length of the Amazon and, fortunately, I came upon them on land and on water. Thcs2 missionaries are from all over the world, and it gives a fellow a great feeling of warmth to meet them, and to learn something of their work. 
"I just wrote Ruth CastcIIint that a Mass is btring said for Bill here on tht* First Friday <>f Februar>'." 
To Dan, many thanks for a fast-paced letter tm his travels among our southern neighbors. 
'22 has its own member of the missionaries, and wc will indulge our editorial license to brag about him her?. Father Hilary Paszek, C.S.C., is returned from France and is now a member of the Holy Cross Mbsion Band. He went to France in 1929 as Noviccmaslcr in LeMans, from there to Czartorysk, Poland where he was ar­rested in 1939 by the Russian .Army. 
Father Paszek finally was permitted to return to France. That was in January, 1940, and he escaped through Spain when Germany occupied the remainder of France. He was last previously in South Bend in 1949. 
Starting the '22 column with a salute to one South Bender, we dtdn'i intend that this becom:* a salute with full battery-. However, your secre­tary pulls the lanyard for Walt Shilts and "Rangy" Miles. 
Walt has been named president of the Catholic Charities of South Bend and "Rang>*" just wound up South Bend's campaign for the March of Dimes. 
"Rangy" has a personal stake in the Polio 

March-April, 1952 
defense fund. His son Jack, '47, was stricken with polio Sept. 10, 1949 while covering a polio epidemic in Benton Harbor, Michigan, as a re­porter's assignment for the South Bend Tribtme. The Class of '22 salutes the father of a coura­geous Notre Dame alumnus. 
We have just received the very sad news of the death of Malachi Gooley, in Syracuse, New York. God rest his soul. We tender our sympathy and prayers to his widow and family. 
1925 
John P. Hurley 1218 City Park Ave., Toledo, Ohio 
Gcoi^e C. Laughlin, superintendent of Com­monwealth Edison's structural and mechanical dcvi­sion is currently pmident of the Illinois Engi­neering Council. 
His twin sons arc both attending the Univer­sity, sophomores in the Commerce school. Michael 
R. and John F. arc the prospective members of the class of 1934. 
Prayers of classmates are asked for the repose of the soul of Charles Stanhope. He died sud­denly in Chicago of a heart attack suiTered at home. For 20 years he had been a Bowes Seal-Fast distributor in that city. 
Your class secretary extends the sympathy of his classmates to Gladys, his widow. 
1926 
John J. Ryan, 2434 Greenleaf Ave., Chicago 45, 111. 
Joe Bach is back at tlic same job he had in 1935 and 1936. 
He is head coach of the Pittsburgh Steelers football team, succeeding John Michelosen. Joe coached the Pittsburgh team when they were known as the Pirates. 
In his 26th year in the business, Joe I.ft St. 'Bonaventure College to take over in Pittsburgh. Since graduation Joe has been around: 
Syracuse, line coach, to 1928; Duqucsne, as­sistant coach, to I93I; Duquesne, head coach, 1934; Niagara, head coach, to 1941; Fort Knox (Army) head coach, to 1942; Detroit Lions, line coach, to 1947; Boston Yanks, line coach to 1948; New York Bulldogs, 1949; St. Bonaventure, head coach to 1931. 
Your Secretary wishes to express the sympathy of the class to Airs. Alice Turner on the death of her brother, Herbert Burt. Herb died in Chicago Jan. 18, of a heart attack. Herb was a lieutenant-commander in the Navy during World War II and saw Pacific service. Please remember him in your prayers. 
Ken Cook has left the directorship of Catholic ReUtioBs for the Boy Scouts of America to be­ccaie poblic rebuioas <firector at St. Lonii Uaiwfsitr> /• 
The CatlioUc News oC New York Gty gave Ken aa cffitorial leadoff: 
"KcB Cook has ahvj^ reflected his Catholic priMciplcs ia his coadoct; they have givea him a serenity aaud problems which bupressed all with whoB he worked. The natioaal oSicxals of the' Boy Scouts yield him to St. Lows very rdnctaatly; their farewell to him is aa experience he vr31 have reason to treasure alwrays. 
"The 500,000 Catholic Scouts in the United States today att:st the effectiveness of his UMCS, which he made an apostolic vocation. While R­gretins his dquurture from the field of scoutiag and from this area, we are h^ipy in the knowl­edge that he is still engaged in Catholic work. Our best wishes go to St. Louis with htm aad his family." 
25 YEAR 
REUNION 
JUNE 6-7-8 

Fraak Motaa 633 East Moaroe Street, South Bead, lad. 
Only three months more! Under the able lead­ership ot President ''Mihe** Swygat aad Reunion Chairman Herb Joacs the plans for the biv event arc going quietly but steadily forward. Herb will probably send out a news-letter ia early' March, outlining the arrangements completed up to date. 
Meanwhile, preliminary mention may be made here of some of the activity locally. At a very pleasant meeting in Herb's rathskeller, territories K-ere mapped and names suggested for district chairmen to mobilize classmates in various areas of concentration, whip up enthusiasm for the retmion, and periuq;» work out travel. arrange-, ments where that will be feasible. By this time these chairmen are already in action, supplied with the names and addresses of the '27 men in their respective sections. Obviously, however, some members may be missed, especially where classmates are spread thinly. 
At this same meeting Ted Bcrfcery's proposal for a class gift to the school was considered. Mike Swygert and Heib Joaes arranged to have lunch with se\'eral of our active '27 men in Chicago to talk over the project. As a result, Edfie McLan^dia agreed to serve "as chairman on thu diffictdt job, with Bill Coebett as viix^hairman and Tooi Nadi as treasurer. 
Since you will undoubtedly hear from thu Silver Reunion Gift committee shortly, I won't 
Bill Allen (left), a chemical engineering senior of 5400 W. €9li^ Mission, Kansas, im & Placement interview with Thomas Van Aarle, '21, and Ben Franhfia off Standard OQ (Ind.) 
2S 

New Club officers, for a new Club — Muskegon^ Mich. — L to R, Leo L. Link, *43, Secre­tary; George Gaaaon, Jr., '36, Vice-president; John Frederick, '28, Musk^on Foundation Chairman; Jim Price, '43, Treasurer, and George Ludwig, '25, Present. 
lr>' to anticipate except to say that this proj'cct 
w being carri d on somewhat independently of 
the reunion gatherins proper, since some who for 
one reason or another will not be able to show 
up here in June will nevertheless be eager to 
contribute to the jubilee fund. 
Some have inquired about the program for the 
reunion week-end activities and have sent in 
suggestions. The program has not yet been 
worked out in detail, but there is an estab­
lished general pattern which will include, after 
registration, the class get-togetlicr and dinner 
or buffet lunch on Friday evening in the Morris 
Inn (we'll be the first reunion class to benefit 
by these facilities), the memorial Mass on Satur­
day morning for the deceased members of the 

class, the President's luncheon Saturday noon, and 
the general Alumni banquet Saturday evening. 
Any other special class activities will have to be 
forced into this rather tight frame. 

Col. Don Wilkins has noted that our ver>­popular classmate HD ^ McCaffery, killed four da>'s after Pearl Harbor, en route to the Pacific, was probably the first Notre Dame casualty in World War 11. Don's recommendations: "That an appropriate memorial to Lt. Gol. Hugh Mc-Caffcry be presented to the University by the Class of '27 and dedicated as part of the 25th Class Reunion. This memorial could take the form of a i^Jigious article needed for the church or chapel." Don suggests that a special commit­tee might be ^pointed to contact class members on behalf of this memorial. Herb Jones would, I'm sure, w*eIccHne any further suggestions to im­plement this Hne proposal. 
From Ray Kdk y has come the following an­nouncement by way of the Alumni Office: 
''Ra^inond J. Kdley, '27, an attorney and justice of the peace in Grafton Tounship, Mc-Henry County, has announced his candidacy* for representative in the state legislature in Illinois from the Eighth Senatorial District: ^fcHenr>% Lake, and Boone counties. Mr. Kelley, a Demo­crat, has practiced law in Huntley, Illinois, his home town, for the past six years. Prevaously he served his community as postmaster for sixteen years. Primary: ^ri l 8, 1952." 
Frank Fendcf^ast, still highly enthusiastic over the presence of little Susan Jane in the household, \mtes that he's not sure that he can make the reunion, but is still hoping. I notice that on Frank's questionnaire there's a mention ol a couple of books he would like to get published. If there's an enterprising publisher in the crowd, here's an opportunity for mutual advantage. 
Vincente Gomez of Vera Cruz, Mexico, reports a family of one girl and two boys. He also sends on the addresses of Rani Flores and Fernando Trcvino, for which we arc grateful. Vincente is assistant chief of the consumers' department with the Mexican Light and Power Co. 
Vince Ball, whose son Eddie is a senior at ND, plans to be back both for his son's graduation and for our twrntv'-fifth. Vince owns and operates a Men's Clothing Store in Plymouth, Indiana. 
Clayte Lcroux, Assistant Personnel Director for 
the Slonarch Aluminum Mfg. Co., Cleveland, 

characterizes his three young offspring, two girls 
and a boy. as respectively and prospectively a 
debutante, an artist, and a "pistol." Clayte has 
been ver\' active in local alunmi affairs and is 
now tlic chairman of the Scholarship, Placement, 

and Directory Committees. He sees Joe Sweeney, 
still "fat and 5as5>-," occasionally John Ofancmns, 
Ed Orlikowsld (in the abstract business], JcliB 

Butler, and Stan LcchowidE, father of a nu­
merous family (9). 
Bill Coyne is puzzled at the make-up of our roster, wonder why the names of George Scsona, Gene Halligan, Tony Rosas, 'Dog* White, Mike O'Kecfe, Bucky Dabmen, aad Christy Flanagan don't appear. I'm - not sure about all of these, but some of them have evidently preferred to be listed with the class in which they finished rather than with their starting class. 
Bill Kavanau^, former student manager, now Washington, D. C , manager of the American Cyanamid Co. and father of four boys, promises to be on hand in June and to talk things up in his territory. George Walsh, another Washing­tonian, is non-committal about the reuniotu George -was in the Navy during the War and earned a Presidential Unit Citation and four battle stars. Walt McKenna, active as an admin­istrative assistant in the Detroit Area Coundl of the Boy Scouts and with three daughters, might do well to keep in touch with Bill Kavanau|^. 
Arnold Petersdunidt is one of the several aca­demic members of the class. Arnold is serving as both teacher and controller at present in the University of Portland. He has a nicely propor­tioned family of four children, alternately boy and girl, the eldest, Ted, a freshman at the Uni­versity of Portland. 
John Carey of Toledo reports a very full public life. John has been successively a member of the Ohio House of Representaitves, vice-ma>-or and mayor of Toledo, and is now judge of the Court of Conunon Fleas and president of the Common Pleas Judges Association of Ohio. John has one son, bom last March. Another judge, Malcolm Hatfield, of St. Joseph, KHchigan, is completing his fifth term .is judge of the Michi­gan Probate Court, twenty years in all. Besides doing much lecturing throughout this country and Canada, Malcolm has authored two books. 
Jim Coogan sends a brief account of his career since graduation, first in the export field, both traffic and sales, then as Assistant Export Sales Manager for thtt Carter's Ink Company, Cam­bridge, Mass. In 1937 he set up a dry cleaning plant in Fall River, with branch stores in neigh­boring cities. Two years after Jim returned to civilian life he sold his business and moved to California in semi-retircment, from whicli he emerged in 1949 to enter the Naval Ordnance Test Station in Inyokem, California. Jim is married, has no children; does not expect to be able to make the reunion but promises to be thinking of the gang. 
. BiD Cooguk at Fall River, Mass., has a sun at ND ' and a daughter married and living in South Bend. Bill has two grandchildren, but this will not prevent his attending the reunion; they are probably part of his reason for coming west. Bill k»t a son, a Naval Pilot, in 1944. 
Along with his questioimaire, Jim Brown, of Sinringfield, Massachusetts, sends in some news ^ d a st^estion: 
''Only a short time ago I saw a very good bound book issued by the alunmi of Princeton CoUege for their ten year class reunion. This same procedure is carried out at the end of every ten years and a larger volume is published for the silver anniversary. All of the class members who have responded to the questionnaire sent them are listed in this book with their address and the position they now hold. 
"If our class could afford to print a similar book I believe that it is one of the few ways of knowing where our former classmates are and what they are doing. It is a good feeling to be in any of the cities in the United States and know that you can call a fellow Notre Dame man. It is one of the definite advantages of graduating from a nationally known school. Spir­itually, we have received the greatest wealth and materially we have realized the friends who can help us advance. 
"I see Bemic Gaiber, class of 1928, quite often. He lives imty a few miles from me in Katonah. JaaMS J. O'Comior, '27, is located in the Ap­praisers Stores in New York. 
"Sunday I attended the Annual Breakfast of the Notre Dame Club of New^ York City at the Biltmore Hotel and of course I sav^- many of our mutual friends who are also planning to attend our Silver Anniversary in June." 
Bin Heam also took advantage of the blank side of the questionnaire to write a letter and so 

•make life easier for the class secretary. BUI 
writes: "Dear Frank: Writing to you about the reunion in June 
certainty brings back memories of the days whm we were fireshmen and I first made your ac­quaintance along with C ^ WekJi and Sam Fnaaa — the Avon Trio. I certainly enjo>-ed the trip back in '47, after nineteen years of absence, and I am looking foru-ard to the one in June. 
"Last week I had a note from Dan Cimning­han asking me to help in rounding up the bc>*s from this area — and to his surprise I am going to do what I can in that matter. T correspond with John Brinkman regularly and he will be down I'm sure. Had a note on a Christmas Card from John Foley up in Rutland, Vermont, and he hopes to make the trip. My ex-roommate. John E. SoUivas, gave me the same news on his- card, too. 
"As for myself, the going has hern pretty much as that experienced by others. There have been i ^ and downs since 1927 but all in all I can't complain. Last stmimer I finished up six years with the Veterans' Administration in the New York Regional Office, where I was Asst. Chief of the Advisement and Guidance Section, but as that program drew to a close I have embarked upon a program that is as unr lated with that field as one could choose. 
"I am now busy getting a place in shape to open an Auction Bam ivhere I hope to develop the country type of auction that has come into such favor aroiind here since the war. I must tell you that I have been a devotee of this line for the past twelve years, so it's really a case of trying to swing the avocational into the voca­tional. Aside from haring my own business (?) one of the strong considerations w:is how to avoid commuting to New York. 
"As you can see I have not become expert vvith the typewriter but let me assure you that it Is better for you to bear with it than to have a bout wtih my writing. If there is anything you bdic%*e I can do to help out besides working with Dan please let me know. If there is a per capita expense 'fund for the reunion let me know and I shall remit." 
The shortest and most 'spirituous'- suggestion so far for a successful reunion is that by Walter (Red) Smith: "Scotch!" 
There is finally a letter from Dan Cunningham, our active mobilizer of the Metropolitan ar'-a and best correqwndent. At the risk of duplicatin? some of the nev^-s in this and the preceding '27 column I give Dan's whole newsy epistle: 
"I have been in touch with quite a few of the 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

1927 gang here in the metropolitan area, since 
Mike Swnc t asked me to round up the members 
of the class in the metropolitan New York area. 
"We are planning a get-together dinner in the 
near future, so that we can arrange to travel 
together on our way back for the reunion in 
June. In the mcantiwe, here is some news for 
the column. 
"Jack HkcA is District ^{anagcr here in New 
York for Hotpoint. Jack and I have a date for 
lunch today, so that we can discuss plans for 
our get-together here in New York before the 
reunion. John Petrone is practicing medicine in 
Suffem, New York. John's answer to my l:tter 
says we can definitely count him in on the 
reunion. 
**Ed Brodcrick is practicing law in Morristown, 
New Jersey. While Ed did not say so in his 
letter to me, I have hrard that he is THE 
Democratic Party right smack in the middle of a 
Republican stronghold. 
Chicago Again: Luke Hcmaiiy new prcsi­denty Moose Krause, Jim Gallagher and Al Stepan. 
**Joe Nulty b with the Union County Proba­tion Service in Elizabeth, New Jersey. Joe says he will make the reunion and will travel any way except by air. He adds that "coining from the city of Elizabeth" he wants no part of that. 
Bill Degoan is with tlie Kellogg Company who build oil refineries and cracking plants, among other things. He is busy designing equipment for the plants. Bill also reports on Frank Masterson and "Pat" ReUly. 
"Frank is in the freight business here in New York and "Pat" is in Trenton, New Jersey, with the New Jersey Public Service. Bob Shields is still in the automobile finance business. ' I had a long phone conversation ^^'ith Bob and found that he conBnes his activities to the East these days, which is the reason that some of the fellows scattered around the country* no longer see him. 
**Ted Bcxkery is a Vice-President of the Immi­grant Industrial Savings Bank here in New York. Ted will be back for the reunion. Chuck Beretz called yesterday to tell me that he and Paul were both planning on making the reunion. Chuck is now selling Cadillac automobiles in IVcstchester County, ivhile Paul is in business here in New York. 
'*Jerry Froelich is noiv- with Wright Aeronautical Corp. doing employee relations work.' I talked to Jerry over the weekend and he tells me he is working hard and very happy. He doesn't know yet whether or not he can make the reunion, but will try. 
**BUI Heam is definitely in. Bill has a new business. As you may have known. Bill has been with the Veterans Administration since getting out of the Army until \-ery recently. He is now an auctioneer and appraiser, but don't ask me of what. I e.\pect to find that out in the ver\* near future, however. Bill's home and business are located out in Roslyn Heights, Long Island. He offered to take on the job of rounding up the Long Islanders in order to find out how hiany would be coming to the reunion. Needless to say, I have accepted Iiis offer. • 
"This is all I have to report on at the moment. Things are looking up and I should have more 
Office of the death in Decen^r of Clarcaoe 
•Verstegen of Marinette, Wisconsin. New Addresses: Herbert J. Braua, 216 Evanslawn Ave., Aurora, 
Illinois. Edward F. McKenna, 524 N. Douglas, King, man, Kansas, Fnmds Olsch, P.O. Box 763, Saratoga, Cali­fornia. William O. Brandenburg, 213 Secbirt Place, South Bend, Indiana. Thomas F. Farfey, Jr., 254 Fluvanna .Ave., Jamestown, N, Y, Lawrence G. Groden, 3B5 South Main St., Geneva, N. Y. Frank J, Hagenbarth, Jr., 725 W. 20th, Spokane 41, Washington. 
J. Ray Hunt, 1801 Townsend Dr., E., South Bend, Indiana. Joseph W. Maxwell, 412 Sylvania Ave., Glen-side. Pennsylvania. Thomas D. McMahon, 2528 S.W. Ravensview Rd., Portland, Oregon. Champ C. Vaughan, 2912 S.E. 76th Avenue, Portland, Oregon. Frank T. Andrew, 2496 Derbyshire, Cleveland Heights, Ohio. Charles N. Kaiser, 14236 Detroit Ave., Lake­wood, Ohio. Paul Frantz, 5541 White Oak Ave., Enceno, California. Raul Florcs, C. deAIoyac 46, Mexico 5, Mex­ico. D. F. Fernando Treviao, Rio Lerma 232, Miravillc, Monterrey, N. L. Mexico. Jose A. Toriello, 20 drNoWembre 18, Irapuato, Gio Mexico. 
Lawrence W. Englert, 27 S. Columbia, Tulsa, Oklahoma. 
1928 
Leo R. Mclntyre, Secretary­3004 Turner St. 
Allento%vii, Pa. 
From high in his beloved Tennessee hills comes a most welcome and informative letter from genial J. Thomas Traughber, Attomcy-at-Law, scion of an old Democratic family which ante­dates Tennessee's most famous son, Andrew "Old Hickory" Jackson. 
Since graduation, I've encountered Tom more often, I believe, than any other fellow twenty-Eightcr. I've met him in Milwaukee at a Young Democratic National Coni-ention, in In­dianapolis at a similar Democratic shindig, in Chicago, in South Bend and on the Notre Dame campus. It's always a pleasure to greet him and to get his political views. It w*as he, for example, wiio first told me that Estes Kefauver would beat the "Boss" Crump forces in Tennessee and become an outstanding United States Senator, which he most certainlv has. It was he, more­over, all the poDs to the coatrary •otwithstawlT' iaS, who asrared lae that Frcndemt Harry S. ; TmaiaB H-ooM*^ returned to the Wbite Hoaie for a full tawL 
Tom is not oahr >• able pnKtical proyMtiratnr; he is able to oornl votes •• his owa hAaH ia Ae benighted "BOile Belt,*' He has just bce« dectcd State's Attorney for an et^t-year term. This is no mean «^"ITIH'"—nt for . a falMkdfed Notre Dame nun and iS'taatanKiunt, I bdieve, to S: Mason bung dectcd grand knii^t of a Kn^t s of Columbns CooncS in Boston.' 
But let's bear from Tom in his inimitable 
"CongratulatMMU .tm your clcctiott as Class secy retary. I can think of no one in the clmm wko couM possibly fill the shoes of LomB Bncfcler more c^kably. Situated as I am, about the half­way mark between Chicago and BGH U and Chicago and New Oricus; I have frmn time to time met several old-timen ia their wanderinfi here in the BXid-Sonth,' sometimes referred c to aa the 'Bible Belt,' and I most say that Tennessee b not the *]ong and narrow' state it was y.ars ago. 
"I see Jolm Wnirhrmijir occaaonally. He has been hi^ily successfnl as Stqierintendent erf dK Louisville Hoqntal unce m4 , and has three beautiful and accomplahcd duldren. If yoa hap­pen to be a dos fander and attend any of the National Dog Shows, you more than likely- hme seen John or his lovely mfe, Helen Cathrine, acting as judges. They have been raisas English bulldogs for years and arc officials n the National Association. Cfcaifie BaschcaMytr of the class of '29 is in the Department of Edncitinn in the city of Lomsvillc and has been woiUng on his PhJ>. at the University of Indiana 
"I was with Bob Hashes in Cincinnati last September between trains. I saw him for an e\'entfu] evening in London .during the war in *43. He is the father of three das^ters and is in stocks and bonds in Cincinnati. Jofai Haiihidr of the class of *28 married a girl whose home is in an adjoining county to mine. I see him occanoaaHy. He has been with a steel company in Bumingham, Alabama, for many years and has two. children. 
"I have be n chairman of the operating com­mittee of the local USD for the past two yean and through that committee I met Fod Cottoa, '21, who was here as Field Representative for the National Catholic Welfare ConndL 
"Father Saaqmm of the class of '40, the Para­troop Padre, was stationed at Fort Campbell for about a year and a half. He then went to Korea and dropped with the 187th Paiadrate Kegimcnt last September. He was wounded in action, but not seriously from the latest reports. 
"John Harwood of the class of '27 lives m Nashville. He is tme of the Icadii^ architects of the Mid-South. He wtm an outstanding award in competition for the best design of a 
news for youALlftlNUS.   in  time  for  another  issue  of  the  "For outstanding loyIaIty'V~a special plaque for James J. Coamefj *93, hmn  }u$ leBotr  
"Best wishes and hopiixg to see you in June. "Sincerely, Dan" Notice has reached us through the Alumni  alumni of the Toledo Club. The presentatioii was made by a apedal comnittce; L to R: Chuck Comes, Geo.Korhumel, Mr.Cooney, Harry Hoffman, Jim Murt^^ and Dick TiDmaB.  
March-April,  1952  27  

public building a fc^v years ago - in Na&livillc. 
He is married and has tuo children. 
**I was so sorr%* to hear of the death of class­

mate Bni Murphy's mother. She. Bill and his 
Mster, Helen, spent one evening with mc last 
.summer while on a trip through the South. 
Theodore Ddiognc (Frenchie) of the class of *27 
comes to Clarks\-ille occasionally to visit his 
daught:r, Patsx'. whose husband Is stationed at 
Fort Caanpbell. Frenchie was with the city of 
Memphis as electrical engineer for several years, 
and now represents DePr^c Lighting, Incorporated, 
with offices in the Builders' Exchange in Alcmphis. 
**John H. Gaugfaan, '28, married a local girl 

several years before the war. At that time Ii .­
was an engineer with the T\'A, stationed in East 
Tennessee. I haven't seen him in these past 
several years. (Gaughan, of Clarksburg. W. Va. 
Gaughan was one of my freshman hall roommates. 
He's a grand guy!—L.R.M.) 
"I had a telephone call late one night about 

two years ago from Wid Lawler. I had not 
heard from him in years. He has been with an 
oil company for the past fifteen years and lives 
near Philadelphia. 
"I hear from John Carlin about once or twice 

a year. He and John Buscheme%'er called mc from 
Salina, Kansas, one night last summer. John had 
been on a trip West with his family and had 
stopped for an old-fashioned session with Carlin. 
Carlin came down this way several years ago as 
a public accountant with a firm in Kansas City. 
.At the present time he is in the gas business 
in Central, Kansas, with headquarters in Salina. 
"I saw Joe Nash one morning late last winter. 

He and his family were returning to Chicago 
from Florida. I could not prevail on them t:> 
stay for a visit. He promised to stay for a 
longer time on his next trip. I ran into Tom 
Hart, '28, at the airport in Minneapolis a couple 
of years ago. He is just as rotund as ever. 
**\Ve had only a few minutes together so he did not have a chance to break into song. He has been ver\' successful in the insurance business and has been with the same company since leaving school. We went to Mass with Vince Walsh, '28, and his wife Sunday morning after the Southern California game in 1949. We met at the hotel in Kokomo Sunday morning. Vince is the tycoon of banking and farming in and around Monticcllo, Illinois. 
**Bill Sherman, '30, operates a radio station in Knoxville, Tennessee and is quite successful from what I hear. 
"I spent four years in the Army and returned 

here in 1946, and have been practicing law since 
that time. For several years I scr\cd as cliairman 
of the Election Commission, and last .August I 
was elected State's Attorney for an eight-year 
term. I am married and have a five-year-old boy. 
"I get tired of returning to football games at 

Notre Dame, seeing thousands of people there and 
not one familiar face. So I pass this suggestion 
along to you for what if is worth. I suggest 
that at eacli game the class of '28 meet at 11 
o'clock at some building, for example the old 
Law . School Building, now I believe, the School 
of Architecture. 
"It might be possible to have some chairs there if the local Alumni would be so kind as to make the arrangements. It would make our stay for any football game much more pleasant, besides offering a place to rest for the leg wcarv'. 
**I think we can work out some point of meeting, and all we would hav:r to know is where it is located. It would be a much greater pleasure to attend the game knowing that you would meet some of your old friends. I would like to have an expression of your opinion on this idea. I would like to repeat that I am tired of going to ball games with thousands of strangers." (An excellent suggestion, Tom. That chair idea is dandy. Whaddya say, classmates?) 
Our famous Flanagans, Christie, the All-.\mcr­ican left halfback, one of the late and lamented Knute Rocknc's greatest off-tackle speedsters, of Port Arthur, Texas, and Frank M. "Mickey," classy diamond star, of Pittston, Pa., both con­tributed interesting letters, uTittcn a day apart. 
Cheeriid, smiling Christie from far-oB* Texas writes: "Lro, I'm the father of four children, all living. My two girls, 20 and 19, are now attenfling St. Mary's. (Good for you, Christie! How time flies! It doesn't seem so long ago that I saw you tearing Army's, Northwestem's and Southern California's stalwart lines to shreds with your terrific off-tackle slashes.) The hoi's, 13 and II, arc home with us going to school. 
Paul Bartholomew's annual between-semesters trip to Washington, D. C. His group of St. Mary's and Notre Dame students were guests of Walter Trohan, '26, lower right comer. 
"I'm in the sliipping business, as this is the 

world's largest oil port and I do all the steve­
doring for the Gulf Oil Corp. Being a native 
Texan, I could ramble at Avill for hours without 
embarrassment, but will be seeing you in June 
at reunion and my best to you and yours for 
the coming year." Christie's address is 4305 
Forest Drive, Port Arthur, Texas. 
Serene, laconic Frank t^-pes: "I don't have much that's news as it's so long since I saw any member of the Class of '28 that I've for­gotten where and when. I have been practicing law here in Luzerne County (Home county of Pcnns>i\*ania's Governor, John S. Fine) since 1933. I had planned on going back for our reunion in 1948 but my mother died at just that time and my plans necessarily had to be changed. I expect to get back in 1953, God willing." Frank's address is Miners Bank BIdg., Pittston, Pa. 
In a witty missive our dynamic former vice-president, Howard Vincent I%alin, of 718 Sheri­dan Road, Wilmette, III., chides your secretary* for devoting "so much space in the '28 column to loquacious Democratic lau*>'ers at the expense of the solid, substantial Republican businessmen in the Class." He points out that our Class fund could be trebled overnight if I w-ere to charge the regular advertising rates for the no­tices I have been giving in the column to the myriad Democratic attorneys at law. He com­putes the amount of free advertising given to our valiant barristers of the Jeffersonlan persuasion in the '28 column in the most recent issue to be In excess of $1,000. (Treasurer Garbcr plcasr note!) 
In his new and advanced post as Eastern sales manager of World Books, Inc., Howie seems to have more time to write and I hereby appoint him official correspondent for *'thc solid, sub­stantial Republican businessmen in the Class.'' (God bless them! Somebody must pay the taxes!) Needless to add, your secretary, like Thomas JefTersop, believes in "equal and exact justice to all men of w*hatevcr persuasion, religious or po­litical." The quote is JefTerson's. We will adhere strictly to Jefferson's quotation in alloting space in the '28 column. (If the news continues to come in such an abundance, Jim Armstrong will be compelled either to call another Class election or impose rationing of space among the Class secretaries) 
Our able treasurer. Bern Garbcr, in a friendly and cheerful communication, despite the fact that he is confined to his home for several days "with some intestinal bug or other," urges all loyal Twenty-Eightcrs to come to the aid of their Class treasury. He points out that our twenty-fifth reunion is just one year away. He informs mc that Father Andy Mulreany, C.S.C., former business manager of the Glee Club, has offered to say gratis six masses a year for *2B men. "Very kind of him," adds Bern. (So say we all). 
"It is good to know that you have forwarded to Managing Editor John Bums the Class news notes," continues Garber. "I've been looked upon askance by some of our dear classmates 
because of the non-appearance of the notes they 
sent. My congratulations to you — but even more 
to your wife — on your great family. If it isn't 
the .biggest in the Class of '28 it must share 
the honor with v.-r>- few others. (Let's hear 
from the others. What do you say, men?) When 
are you going to run for Congress? And when 
has there been a Catholic Governor in Pennsyl­
vania? Come on Leo, don't let *28 down!" 
(Garber, a native of Butler, Pa., knows full 

well that a Jeffersonlan has about as much chance 
of becoming Governor of Republicuin Pennsylvania 
as Joe Stalin has of becoming president of the 
A. O. H., the Ancient Order of Hibernians) 
Mrs. Blanche McKcown, wife of Edward P., one of the Democratic law>'ers his good friend Howie Flialui was alluding to, uTites: "Ed has recovered wonderfully from his long siege in bed. He keeps very busy as one of his law partners died last spring—Leo Hassenauer. Mary is In second year in high school now. Edward is in the eighth grade and is an altar boy and Ruth Anne Is in first grade now." 
The late amiable and admirable Dr. John M. Coooey's '28 journalists, with the exception of Bern Garber and Christie Flanagan, have not con­tributed to our Class news column in a long time. John A. **Jack" Midlen, editor of the Notie Dame Scholastic, has not been heard from in years. 
The same is true of George A. Scheuer, ont* of Gaiber's most able and faithful assistants, when he was president of the Press Club; Bob Capcsius, author of the "Strikes and Spares" coltmin in the defunct Soutli Bend News-Times; Ed McCor­macfc, super ND blanket salesman; Dick Elpcrs, leading campus poet; Dick -Parrish, my able as­sistant as news editor of the Scholastic; (I re~ ceived the credit for Dick's outstanding work); George H. Kelley, an indefatigable worker: Wniiam W. "Turk" Kelly, active in Press Club activities; Walter H. La>'ne, editor of the Notre Dame Juggler and president of the Scribblers; Dave Gibaon, Garber's old side-kick and Dick Green, whose Illness prevented him from com* pleting his college work. 
Sdicuer, Parrish, Geo. Kelley and Green arc still engaged in newspaper work. Scheuer is on the editorial staff of the South Bend Tribune, Parrish, on a year's leave of absence, is one of the top men on the Falrmount, W. Va., daily; Kelley is managing editor of the Yotugstown, O.^ Vindicator and Green is with the Muncie, Ind., daily, I believe. 
I am relying on Journalists Mullen, Scheuer. Capcsius, McCormack, Elpers, Parrish, George Kelley, "Turk" Kelly, Layne, Gibson and Green to supply news for our next column, which will appear in the May-June issue of the ALUMNUS, 
The deadline approximately will be April 15. (Is that correct, John?) Let's make this a con­certed and worth-while contribution, a memorial column for our beloved "Prof," Dr. Cooney. Rcquiescat in Pace. He was a great and good friend of many Twenty-Eighters and I am going to recommend to President Buckley his post> 
humous election as an honorar>' member of our Class to share in masses for deceased members, et cetera. 
I shall make the same recommendation for an­other fine faculty friend, the late Rev. James H. Gallagao, C.S.C., our Sonn Hall rector and pro­fessor of Politics, who was selected by vote of the Class to say the mass for our deceased members at our twentieth-year reunion. R.I.P. 
From Lee, Mass., Frank J. Kelly, in a quan­dary* states that he doesn't know whether to extend congratulations or condolences to me upon my election as Class secretary*. (Condolences, of course, Frank!) Wishing me the best of luck in the new job, he continues: 
**'If you*re looking for class news youMl get precious little out of me. Vcr>* frankly, my ND connections have dropped to about zero. There are no men around who were contempo­raries in school and likc^vise there is no or­ganized alumni group in the vicinity. 
"This, plus the fact that there's no game in New York (which used to afford something of an annual Eastern Reunion) leaves me 'way, 'way nut in right field. 
"Was not aware of your family. Congratula­tions and good luck! We have been very for­tunate on the health and accident side of the ledger, for which we are thankful. Our seven children go as follows: 
1, 13 Sheila, 12 Zita, 11 Marcia. in Bill. . 8 Kevin, 6 Shaun, 

"All in school but Shaun. How do yours run? If Jt^m Leitzinger, Maury Conley, you and I should ever have a family get-together we would nerd extra accommodations. 
"On the personal side the letterhead indicates what I do during working hours. Family business: furniture, floor coverings, funeral director—page Bob Kirby—and ambulance ser^-ice; been here as a family business 80 years this spring. 
"For hobby interests my specialty is guns. Have a fair-sized collection of antique firearms and also do quite a bit of shooting with both modern and old<fashioned muzzleloaders. 
"Naturally this gets me around to a consider­able extent and into a number of clubs and or­ganizations and the funny part of it is of all the fellows I've met there has not been one ND contact. Must be they're not a shooting crowd." 
I was pleased to read in the January-February* issue of the ALUAfNUS that fifteen members of nur Class are serving the ND Foundation either as City Chairmen or State Governors or both as follows: 
Herbert P. McCabe, Asbury* Park, N. J.; Charles P. Lytle, Blair, Centre, Huntingdon and Bedford, Pa., Counties; James W. Cullen, Brad­ford, Pa., County; Bernard J. Bird, City of Buf­falo and Co-Governor of New York; John C. Fontana, Columbus, O.; Thomas Collins, Fall River, Mass.; James T. "Jack" Canizaro, Jack­son, Miss.; August M. Grams, LaCrosse, Wis.; Kirwin J. "Tex" Williams, Little Rock, Ark.; Edward J. Dean, Monessen, Pa.; John F. Fred­erick, Muskegon, Mich.; Christie Fhinagan, Port .-Vrtimr, Tex.; Edward J. McGauIey, \Vorccster, Mass., and Judge John T. Cullinan, Governor of Connecticut. 
Please keep sending in those news items. Let's follow the good example of lads like Bern Garbcr, Tom Traugfaber, the Flani^ans, Christie and Frank, Howie Phalin, Frank Kelly, et alii. Re­member, too, just a year from now \ve'll be completing our arrangements to attend our 25th year reunion at old Notre Dame. We arc count­ing on you and you and you to rally with us at ND in 1953! 
Congratulations are in order from all of us other classmates to Qucntin J. Wildeman, Ph.B., formerly of Bamesboro and now a prominent resident of Indiana, Pennsylvania. His son, Jo­seph R., is the first of all Class of '28 progeny to be graduated from our Alma Mater, ND. 
The younger Wildeman %vas graduated from his Dad's school in August, 1951, just a little more than twenty-three years after his father turned the trick. 
This interesting information is contained in a letter receKed on the eve of St. Valentine's Day, on the threshold of Managing Editor John Bums' Feb. 15th deadline, from our President, Loine Buckley, who writes: 
"Congratulations on the excellent colunm. Keep up the good work. I trust you will meet the Feb. 15th deadline. (We did with John Bums' able assistance} Also my congratulations on the new daughter (Patricia). Jane M. Pilarski, Bill Dooley's very efficient secretary, advised in re­sponse to my question in the ALUMNUS that 
J. Q. (our Quentin J.) Wildeman, '28, 666 S. 6th Street, Indiana, Pa., (send him congratula­tions, now, won't you lads?) is the first member from our class to have a son graduated at ND. Joseph R. graduated in August. Regards, Louie B." 
"Congratulations on our Class notes in the present issue of the ALUMNUS," writes Joseph Sullivan Morrisscy, our Class' able reprcsenUtive on the Board of Directors of the Alumni Asso­siation. 
Joe carries on his duties as a director in the fine tradition built up in the past decade, first by Louie Buckley, our President, and subsequently by Bill Jones, Louie's long-time friend and con­fidant, who retired from the Alumni Association's directorate at the end of 1951­
"On a recent trip to attend a meeting of the Board of Directors at Notre Dame," continues Joe, "I called Bob Kirfoy (our great head cheer­leader during our undergraduate days and one of my Freshman Hall roommates, a grand and popu­lar lad) but he wasn't home. His (one of the twins) daughter and I had quite an enjoyable chat. The biggest news in the Kirby menage is bouncing Michael Patrick, age 2J4- His daughter told me that 'her Daddy hasn't slowed down any.* 
"I have caught up with Frank Donovan," writes Joe. "\Ve have two sons each at ND now." (Congratulations to you, both, Frank and Joe! Old Notre Dame will win over all while her loyal sons continue to send their loyal sons back to her hallowed halls!). 
Joe has been appointed chairman of the com­mittee of the Alumni /\ssociation's directorate which is arranging for the get-together of the Club President's Council at Notre Dame in June. 
Navy Comdr. Henry T. Glcnnon and his family. Rev. Charles L. Doremus, C.S.G., supplied the snapshot. 
1929 
Larry Staudcr, Acting Secretary* 
Engineering Building 
Notre Da^e, * Indiana 
Your Acting Secretary Larry Stauder (see above for address where you '29ers can send your letters and news, notes, etc.) mailed inquiry cards to sc%eral *29ers in Pennsylvania, Maryland and Ohio, assuming that football games in Pitts­burgh, Baltimore and Chapel Hill would bring numerous classmates together and furnish some newsworthy class items. 
Ohio came through with three fine letters. Joseph H. Kraker is now sales manner of the Orr-Thomas Oil, Inc., the Atlantic Refining dis­tributor in Summit, Portage and Medina Counties and also operates in Cleveland and Warren, Ohio. 
Joe has, since graduation been associated with First Central Trust Co., also with his father the late John Kraker in operating Krakcr's Old Heidelberg Restaurant and then witK Frank Kraker, Inc., in the real estate business. .,; 
Quoting from Joe: 
"My family consists of -three sons and two daughters ranging in age from four to 18. My eldest son John, 18, is in his fifth year at St. 
Charles College, Baltimore, which is: a piepara­tory seminary; and my second soa, Joe, Jr., 13, is planning on enrolling there thb year. 
"Betty Jo, 16, is a jnaior at St. Viaccat'a High School aad Mary, 8, is in her third year at St. Sdiastian's. Jerry, 4, is still at hosM with his mother. 
"I see Oaiide Hotang quite often aad of coarse he is suocesifti] in the lumber bnsinen. Joe WooKak is practicxng law and as you know is with Hrestone here in Akron and has a very nice family. 
"While visiting in New York recently I , saw Pete Bee and he is now Dean of Men at *New York Sute Institute of Applied Arts & Scieaccs. He is married bnt has no children. 
"If from time to time I hear of anything that might be of interest to yon and the '29 Class I will send it akmg." 
Siaceiely, Joe Kraker 

Fellow Akronite Joe Wooaiak writes: 
"To hear from you, Larry, was tike a bolt of lightning from above, but it was a grand feeliag to know the organxzatHm is still active and checking on the gang of the Class of *i9. 
"Well, here it goes. 
"I've been married since 1933 and have two boys, Thcnnas John Wozniak, 17, a senior at St. Vincent H ^ School and Jos ^ John Woz­niak. 15, a sofrftomore at the same h ^ school. 
"Since graduation I have been engaged in the active practice of law. Just recently defended a minor accused of a first degree crime and the jury recommended mercy. 
"My hobbies consist c^ golfing, and of follow­ing the destinies of the Notre Dame football team. "God willing, my oldest boy will be a student 
on the campus before many more months. 
"The Notre Dame Club here has established a scholarship and smne of the recipients are now attending the University. 
"Send regards to die Barberton and Akron boys doing so nicely at Notre Dame, and firom us around here who are watching the wonderful work they are doing. The local news angle has me stopped, with the exception of the fact that we lost Paul Bertdh last summer in a tr^ic accident." 
(Until Joe Wocmiak's letter your secretary had not beea aware off the death off Faud Bcrtcfc; oar' last informataoa coaceraiag Paul listed hail as Vice-mrcsidcnt aad Sales Maaager, Rohaer Vaftr Co., Akron; hb childrea as off 1949 were JaaKS Fhifip, 4. Barbara Ana, 7, Paul A., Jr., 10, aad Louise Catherne, 12. la bchaK off Pud's maay friends at Notre Dame we eiprcsi 'oar sympathy to his diildren aad to lus wife, Barbara. We mil remember him m our prayers.) 
Orsia Dansmaa, with Bell Telephone Co., In­dian^wlis visits South Bend periodically. lie in­forms us that Gcae Gal£faini is now in Indian­apolis with Peeriess Pump, a divuion of General Foods. Until recently Gene resided in Milwaukee. 
At the St. Joe Valley Club's annual testimonial banquet to the football team we saw Dr. Jofca VaichuKs, who had previously dropped a card from East Lansing: 
"Received your inquiry about class news. Yon will have to • give me a chance to get over this 33-0 nightmare. Yes, I still follow the team. Best wishes for Don Plunkett's health." 
Pat CLeary in Zanesville, Ohio, s:nt in the last letter to our requests: "Decided that if I didn't jump on this pronto it would get .buried, so here goes. 
"Frankly, news of the Zuwsville O'Leaiys is going to make very dry reading. My contacts with '29ers* don't exist. Quite frequently I see ^^ace Mclatyre here who was in the class off '30, I believe, and Ray Loagstreth, drca '36 belongs to the same Study Club as I do and that, my friend, is the sum total of my contacts with ND men since last I saw you in June 1950. 
"I had a call from son Jack ^ m Cleveland on the occanon of the Navy game. He's a cadet at Aniu^iolts, and seems to like it here. He lost one of his credits from Notre Dame and had to start in as a lowly pld>e last year, bnt now that he's a Youngster, as the Third Class men are called, he says he has really risen in the world. He says the year at Notre Dame was of immeasurable help to him in bringing up his studies. 
"On his summer training cruise he went to Edinburgh and Lisbon, aboard the USS liy^sconsin. 
March-April, 1952 
From Edinburgh he took a side trip to London and the Scottish lake country. 
*'Fr»m Lisbon he went to Fatima on a trip arranged by their Catholic chaplain aboard the battlewagon. Came back with some pretty nice color shots of the shrine. 
"Son Jim is a junior in high school this year. *'Leona and I are continuing our parochial acti^ties. We both belong to the study clubs, and were in on starting the Block Rosary in our neighborhood. I'm also engaged with the Lay­men's Retreat League. **And the dcveolpmcnt of the Retreat League is a stor>', too. Five years ago four men went to the Retreat House in Columbtis. Tlie next year two additional ones went. (I was one) We got busy the next year and increased to 12. Last year it was 18 and this year it was 30. 
"The Retreat House accommodates 32 so we had a full house. We operate on the principle of each man signing up a new man each year. Then seeing that the new man goes to th? first one. We figure from there he's in. I've got my man already lined up for next year. It's a drop in the bucket as far as the total of Zancs\-illc men are concerned, but we've got them worrying in Columbus about next year. Kind of nice to be worried about an overflow crowd, splitting the group, etc. 
"Larry, I've about run out of material. This has b^en anything but a chronicle of '29crs but on the other hand when you don't sec 'cm you can't write about 'em. Reviewing this letter I see I've left out two things. 
"One concerns the Princess Susie, who is now in sixth grade and the other is that Steve Durbin called me from Columbus airport en route from the east to Kansas City. He's still with GE in air conditioning unless the inter\'ening months hav^ brought a change." 
Pat 0'Lear>­
"P.S.: I- failed to mention it in the letter but I'm the District Traflic Supt. in charge of the ZaDCsi-ille District, with Ohio Bell." 
Joe Laiibcr continues in' the sheet metal busi­ness in South Bend. He recently underwent surg­ery at the Mayo CUnic but is recovered. 
From Secretary Don Flimkett who conusucs to teach part-time while recuperating, comes word that he hasn't seen many classmates since Fall when he ran into Tom (Mickey) McMahon of New Orleans who was on campus for the Purdu; game. Don Shettig, sa)3 Sec Flunkett was in from Iowa. 
Jake Northcott, in the Electric Engineering Department sends this on £. C. DeBaene: 
"DeBacne wrote a five page article appearing in the Fdiruary issue of **Electric Light and Power." They introduced him this way: 
'From confining currents to placating people to slipping slidcrules is an tmusual pilgrimage but DeBaene has made it in his 22 years witli D.troit Edison. For the 15 years following graduation be did research in dielectric materials after which he spent five years in personnel administration work and is now senior engineer in the engineer­ing department. In this case all roads lead to Rome, for seldom docs an article appear in this ofiBce as clearly thought out as his that appears in this issue'." 
Father Joe Voorde, C.S.C., spent a month's vacation — his first time in the U. S. since 1937 
— with his parents at South Bend. Father Joe 

' has been in Pakistan, covering his mission on foot and by bic>*c]e. Calls his work there "very rewarding." 
Gcor^ N. Bcamcr, newly elected president of the South Bend Association of Conmicrce presided at the Stud^aker Corporation's lOOth Anniversary* Diimer Ftb. 16 in the University dining hall. 
Closing the column this issue is a letter from Joe Jadiym (Westfield Trade High School, West­field, Mass.): 
"TTie years have really slipped by since 2929. 
"While reading the ALUMNUS I've often made an honest intention to w-rite once a year. But since I've slipped up, I just don't know where to be^, 
"After learing ND I played Pro baseball at Wheeling, W. Va., Evaiw'ille, Ind., Beaumont, Texas, Wilkes-Barre, Pa., Saranac Lake, N. Y., and wound up as batting practice pticlier with the Detroit Tigers in 1939. 

All along the line I met ND grads, some of wbom were Batch Nicmicc, John Poliskcy, Tex Riley, Joe Shccketdd, Leo Sdirall, Jim Harris, John Igoe, Tom Carc>', Tom Ferriter, Tom Shea, Bill Hurie>', John B. Sullivan, Tom Murphy, Bad Redgate aiKf many others. Tun Toomey stopped and visited me here last summer. 
"Very seldom did I miss the ND-Army game. And I hated to see this scries discontinued be­cause the weekend was old home week wherj I met so many of the 1929 class and others from the Eastern part of the states. Always made the basketball game at the Garden while George Keogan was coaching. 
"Married Helen Schoenrock of ^VcstWHc in 1937. On our ^vedding trip we saw the Yankees and Giants World Scries of that year. So the past one brought back fond memories. 
"We have four yotmgsters — John 9, Ann 7, Tom 6 and Jim 2. All of them keep Helen and me busy. 
"I'm a member of the Knights of Columbus, Holy Name Society and of local teacher and coaching organizations. 
"Since 1939 I have been in the local school system as teacher and coach at Westfield Trade High School. I teach Math, Physics, Hj^en.*, Safety and Gym. Also coach basketball and baseball. During the summer I'm a playground director and coach Junior American Legion base* ball. And I nearly forgot — am also a part* time salesman for Sears-Roebuck. 
'^As for the room-mates at Notre Dame, I had quite a icw in Brownson. At Sophomore, George Simons; at Badin, H. Maynard SuUhan. Haven't seen Simons since 1930, nor Sullix-an since 1939 in Chicago. 
"Of the '29 class, had a nice letter from co-captain Fran Crowe of Detroit, who has a family of five. Dr. Tom Ferritcr is in Springfield, Mass., and has three youngsters. Bob Brcnnan is in Pittsfield, Mass., and bis oldest boy is quite an athlete. Bump into quite a few at Connecticut Valley and Pioneer Valley Alunuu Club meetings. 
"If things are okay, I hope to make the 23th Reunion in '54. Meanwhile, please give my best regards to those on campus, and to all in the Class of '29." 
1930 
Dc\ere T. Plunkett Oept. of History Notre Dame, Indiana 
This column is made possible by the diligent reporting of the following foreign correspondents: James "Jack" 0*Keefe, Cfaet Ashman, Jack Elder, Bob Hellnmg, F. A. "Bill" Fink, Pat Goggui and Bus Redgate. 
Thank you, gentlemen, for covering your beats like dedicated journalists. And as for those raises in salary you keep pleading for, I'll take it up with the budget committee again, but you know how Armstrong and Bums arc. They had us on short rations long before the British discovered the word "austerity.** Of course, they arc a couple of nice guys, if your taste runs to effi­ciency- experts. But they have long held, that eating was an over-rated and an unessential pastime. I suspect we will be on the samj budget again this coming year. So foi^et that new typcivriter ribbon you had your heart set on. 
Things are about the same at Notre Dam= as in any February of the past. ' Weather is bad; students faavc that will-Easter-evcr-get-here look on their faces; the professors' stories in class 

. match the weather; Bob CahUl is asking all Alumni to go on a diet, so he can squeeze a few' more people in next fall; bookmakers on the presidential candidates are offering 10 to 1 it won't be FDR, despite the speeches you hear; Vat Manion is not nmning for the Senate; it just happens to be that season; the ghost of Washing­ton Hall has not been seen; he's not running this year, either; Oonie Donovan, however^ is available, and will harken to the vox populi if a popular draft suinmons him to drop his plough; Jack Cannon is willing to go this year, if he can get the backing of the ALUMNUS and "Osservatore Romano.*' 
In the past two years a great number of letters and cards have been sent out to class members requesting news about them and their ND con­tacts. Quite a few have not replied. That it unfortunate, because the purpose was to clarify their status in light of many libelous charges made by other class members. For example, in Tim Mooney's dispatches it is clearly implied that most of the 1930 class were not bona fid.* stu* denis at all. 
Most of them were fugitives from a French penal ooJony, and hiding out here for four yean. I have been hounding men trying to set this record straight. Again, George CMaller writes that - the class was compf»ed of himself and two or three other non-descripts. George is a lawyer, tending to over-simplify things, and reduces all social conflicts to O'Malley vs. The People. 
On the other hand. Bo Richards is more ex-, pansiv:, and contends that the class of *30 in­cluded all the good people of the liberal and fine arts, commerce, law, science and engineering, ^vho were out of work in 1930. As a cautious his­toriam I refuse to ignore any of these plausible theories about what went on here from 1926 lo 1930, but we must have more evidence to write the full story. 
In this connection, it w-ould be mighty helpful to hrar from: Art Erra, John Dea, Bob Andres, Joe Fay, Harold Shumate, Dr. Walt McFariane, John Maicns, George Simons, Bob DeWald, Mike ^^•-Tt^r", Henry Horita, It m Hindiey> John Ganthier, Pete Moroni, John Switzer, Dr. Frank Hand, Ray Spafar, Car] Gnmii^;, Steve Sherry, Jim Coulter, Jim Morgan, Dr. Don Gressly, and Chariey Derby. 
But back to our foreign correspondents. From Seattle, Washington, comes Pat Goggin: 
"Many thanks for your recent kind letter and gentle reminder. Your column for Class of '30 each issue of ALUMNUS revxals splendid efTort on your part and certainly fine cooperation from the .outside. 
"1930 column copy is scarce this season. Notre Dame men of the late thirties, 1940 and many 1951 graduates provide a large portion of our membershqi of Notre Dame Alumni Club of Western Washington. Club Secretary of this ac­tive organization certainly helps to keep me alerted relevant to Notre Dame activity. 
"No contacts in months with Joe Manley in Taccma or Ron Sullivan in Portland. We arc hav­ing' a dinner meeting on February 19, at Seattle University and I hope to see John Flynn and Ed McCrimmon. 
"Plans are now in the rough draft stage for our 29th Aimual Universal Notre Dame Night observance in Seattle. The occasion should bring together, at this time, all men of the Class of 1930 in the area of the all entrancing Pacific Northwest. (My, how your writer has changed since he left Areola, Illinois—back in 1940.) 
**Boeing Aixplane Company, Seattle Division, is presently keeping me occupied on a highly classi­fied Project and siune provides temporal needs for our good family—Patrick HI, Mary Elizabeth, Eileen Ann, and \ficbael Edwud. One of the Irish Christian Brothers recently remarked about our choice of German names. 
"Kindly tell John Bums an AIRMAIL will be on an outbound plane relative to a few timely notes concerning the Notre Dame Club of lVc5C­em Washington. 
"Kindest personal regards and every good wish for a Happy Easter to you and ND men of the Class of *30.'* 
From that romantic land of Indiana—Htmting­ton. to be exact, COME IN, BILL FINK— Managing Editor of Our Sunday Visitor: 
"I am sorry, Deverc, but I am afraid that J shall not be able to be of much help to you. I have been on the go quite a lot lately, but have had very little contact with members of the Notre Dame Alumni and particularly with members of the class of 1930. 
"Due to the pressure of other duties, my own roommate, ^ m Irwin of Buffalo and I failed in 1951 to get together for even one Notre Dame football game. That was the first time that had h^ipened since we were graduated. Not that I missed the game, but only that I was able to take in those which permitted travel to and from the site of the game in a single day. For ex­ample, all of the home games plus the Michigan Sute affair. 
"Jhn Irwxn, I know, was among many Notre Dame gnKiuates who attended the recent installa­tion of Ardibnliop O'Hara in Philadelphia. Maybe he could give you a round-up on the gang in the East. 
"Ibre at our office we have a little Notre Dame reunion every day. On our editorial staff are Fu l Maaodti, class of 1934; Jerry Hekker, class of *48, and Dick Schieber, class of 1950. 
"In Catholic Press circles, I have frequent con­tact with Joe Brieg, class of 1927, who is cur-

rcntly receiving much praise for his new bofik "The Devil Vou Say *' "And in limited activity in the Knights of Columbus, I have had contact with John Rocap, 
' class of 1930, who is now a member of the Su­preme Board of the K. of C, . . . also, Tom Nfcdland, class of 1930. State Secrrtary of the 
K. of C., and likely successor to Bill Zahn of our town as Indiana State Deputy. 
''Joe Dillon, class of 1930, still maintains his home in Huntington, but is working at the Inter­national Harvester in Fort Wayne and going well. 
"Had a casual meeting not long ago with Bob Eggcman, class of 1930, in Fort Wayne. And a few minutes later with Frank Coxbctt, of our doss. Both looked well, although I had no op­portunity to visit with them. Also saw Norb Bei^iofr, class of 1929, when Helen and I went to pay our respects on the occasion of the death of his Mothcr-in-Law. Mrs. Laura Noll Collins. 
**That about does it, Deverc. And, as I said in the beginning of thi<i note, I am sorr\* that ray contacts with the Xotrc Dame fcllo^vs have been few." 
From Skyline Farm, Ulster, Pa., W2 have word from a fellow we've been waiting a long time to hear from. Let's have it, Jack 0*Keefc; 
"Reading Mrs. Jim Leahy's inspiring lett r on lier line family in the Januar>'-February issue of the ALUMNUS finally persuaded me that it would be a good idea to get off a long-delayed r port on our brood. The latest report published in the Armstrong Gazette told of our fifth, a son born on the day of the 1940 Notre Dame-Army game; since then four more have been sent to us to make a total of nine. 
"I am enclosing a picture of them all with the hope that somewhere in some future issue there will be space enough to print it. We too had trouble getting a satisfactor>- picture of the entire gang as a group so wc solved the problem by ha\ing a composite print made from nine indi­\'idual pictures. From left to right and top to bottom, with ages, they-are: Pegg\- 17. Jimmy 16, Man-Ellen 14, Kathleen 12, George II. Betsy 8, Michael 6, Patrick 3, and Eileen 2. 
"In spite of the roguish smile displayed in her picture. Peg, our diminutive red-head, is a very dignified high-school senior who hopes to return next fall to the hospital where' she was born to take up' the study of nursing; currently she is the official scorekrepcr for the school basketball team on ivhich her brother plays. Jim already towers a foot over his mother and older sister, is two or three inches taller than I. and is still virowini;. MaryElIcn—wc had to call l:er by a doubled name in order to avoid confusion among the many Marys in our vicinity—is the real stu­dent of the family, studying conscientiously and getting very good marks. 
"But Kay is something of a genius who studies occasionally and not very hard and th:n comes up with such marks as 100 in eight of ten subjects in recent seventh grade mid-year tests—and sin­cerely mourns over the minor errors which de­prived her of perfect marks in the other two courses. George is in the middle of the family, not only in the picture, but also numerically which fits him ideally for his dual role as mascot of the older four and leader of the younger four. 
"Betsy struggles willingly all day in third grade but can hardly wait to get back home, into her dungarees, and out among her animal friends here on our farm; her ambition is to become m nursing assistant to a Doctor of Veterinary Medi­cine. (Do they have such?) 
"Mike started first grade last fall and can be counted on to be in the midst of any mischief there; he aspires to (I) drive a tractor and (2) drive a Jeep. Pat is beginning to strain at the apron-strings and has the ambition to someday 
(1) drive a Jeep and (2) drive a tractor. 
"Eileen, more often called Moonbeam, unques­tionably rules the roost, but why shouldn't sh"; after all, are there very many other little girls who arrive fully equipped with four brothers and four sisters? She handles them like a sea­soned veteran. 
"During the war years I worked in Newark— with Federal Telephone and Radio where Joe Abbott is Director of Personnel—but when the shooting was all over we decided that our bnMd (seven then) was becoming too unwielfly for us . to manage with maximum eflicieiicy in town, so six years ago we bought ourseU-es a farm out here on the rounded top of a northern Pennsyl-
REV. JOSEPH KMIECIK, 08.0, '30 
Father Kmiecik has been recalled to active duty with the Air Force. Chaplain (Major) Kmiecik is now at Fort Slocum^ New York. 
vania alp and went to work tilling the soil and 
producing milk for the New York City market 
some two hundred miles away. 
"Our seven older children attend Saint Agnes 
School in nearby Towanda where they make up 
some five p T cent of the total enrollment; we 
Jeep them daily to Saint Agnes eight miles away, 
half over unpaved roafis. (May the heavenly 
angels, at their earliest opportunity, deliver into 
eternal perdition that diabolical American insti­
tution, the non-sectarian school busf) 
"Incidentally, Saint Agnes was the pre-Notre 
Dame school of threz of our classmates. Father 
Jim Rizer, Father Bill Burchill, and Jim Costello; 
furthermore, its principal is one of our summer 
alumnae. Sister Nfary Amadeus Ronan, R.SJtf. 
".\ week or two ago I spent a very enjoyable 
evening ivitb Jim Costello, his wife Bobbie, their 
two sons and two daughters in their northern 
New Jersey home. Father Bill BorchiU is pastor 
of a two-church rural parish several miles north­
west of here, in fact, when the weather is clear 
we c:an sec from our farm one of his gleaming 
white cimrches perched high up on top of a 
round-topped hill eight or nine miles away as 
the crow flics. Father Larry Wenniger is pastor 
of another adjoining parish; wc saw both of 
tRcse '30 Fathers recently %%-hen they asusted our 
Bishop at the funeral of our late pastor. 
"Ever>* now and then we se:; John Colemaii. *33, or Harold McCue, '33, at a Sunday Mass in Towanda, or lawyer Jim CuUen, '28, of nearby Sa>Te at the county court house in Towanda. Jim is quite active in Democratic Party affairs, but this is an overwhelmingly Republican county, which situadon has militated against Jim becom­ing the excellent public servant he potenttaUy is. (That seems to be one of the weak points of our two-party system.) 
"Just in case I've made the raising of nine kids sound too simple in the earlier part of this letter, let me say now that ive've had our diffi­culties. Our major adventures in medicine and surgery have been miraculously few: two unqile fractures of forearms; three fractured %'ertdirae (all in one victim at one time) which healed perfectly, one appendectomy, one concussion, sur­gical repair of a congenital cleft lip, a near-fatal case of whooping cough ui a nine-week-old baby, and one tonsillectomy complete the list. Sure, we've had scratches, mumps, cuts, bums, measles, sprains, whooping-coughs, bruises, chicken pox, colds, and what-have-you galore, but none of these ever reached serious proportions. Sometimes I think these nine of ours were each ^ven a 
sfoaaX gift ol t%n» or three gnardiaB anfds in­
ttead of the imttimmf aOotaent of oae ipiiri 
"Hcwever, the sane God Who sent « ••ch 
heahhy . chndrcn and hcpc their aMthcr the 
healthiest of all the faailr s»r fit, in ICi In­
finite Wisdom, to take away^ soine two yean a^a 
what had always prevkmslr been mif encdlent 
health. After that, with devea nnaths to feed 
and dor resources xtfSdSj dwnadfiag, U waa not 
long before I - learned what a strong unniHtinn' 
despair can be. But then, just when- things were­
loohittg their darkest, along canse -Ae fourtemth 
Sunday after Pentecost with its Gospd fauB the 
Sermoo on the Mount, inchiding ''Consider the 
birds of the ain they neither sow nor reap, nor 
do they gather into bams; yet your Itfawnly 
Father f eedeth then. Arc not you ol nndi 
greater value than they?" . After that Aings 
didn't look cfiute as hopeless as they had pre­
viously and DOW, two years lata*, althoo^ I am 
still unable to cam a Hvii^ («• myself or for 
those in my charge, here we are all together as 
one family, all alive, -all esccept myself cputt well, 
and all ha^ipy. With profound gratitude and with 
the deepest revrrence, I can say that in tibe tine 
of our great need, in Hn own way and through 
agents of His own dKxuing, our heavenly Father 
has fed us and much more than merely fed us. 
"It wasn't exactly easy, Devere, to write that 
last paragraph, for it certainly, is no story of 
finandbd success or material accomplishment sodi ' 
as I am accustomed to reading in our class n ws, 
yet the story of this family would not be com­
plete without that paragraph. I debated with 
myself for a long time before inclmfing it; I 
finally decided in favor of its inclnsioQ with the 
hope that it might be read by sameoniie fubo h 
finding the goiag much tougher than he would 
like and that posnbly he might be inqinrcd to 
keep going a little longer, and then a little longer 
again, as we had to learn to do. That's a v ry 
bard lesson to leam, but we know it can' be 
learned. 
"With kindest personal regards to yourself and to all at Notre Dame." 
From Morristown, Tennessee, a gentleman who specializes in the art <^ sitting down—our own chair manufacturer, COME IN dw t Adnnan: 
'*I am just a little late on that New Year's resolution to bring your file cm me up to date —but if I can get this in by your deadline date of the 15th, then yon might be able to gather a few tidbits from this to help you out. 
"First of all let me say that I sure envy you in getting to see the ND-Kcntocky gam? the other nite. I would have given anythmg to have ' seen it. From the newspaper accounts the ND-boys did all right—they just seemed to nm out of gas in that last quarter. 
"I have been in Tennessee since July of 1941; I came here frmn Los Angeles on a vacation, but somewhere along the line I got married, and have been here ever since. I met my wife when she was in California for the first Tennessee . Vols Rose Bowl game, that was 1940. She likes California very much, and I believe that was the time I threw a curve, because she believed we would live out there. . But after secii^ the many beauties of this section, the mountains, lakes, etc, I decided there were enough opportunities here to just stay in this secticm. 
"So after working for the Tennessee Valley Authority as a cost ei^ineer on their dam con­struction, I went into the chair manufacturii^ business, tqwn the cooqdetion ol the TVA work in this area. My first products were juvenile items exclusn-ely—spedaliring in little chain and rockers, so you see how easy it came to rail n y company the Little Chair Co. 
After the war years vdien metal toys again appeared on the market, it made it rather hard to sell juvenile furniture the year round, so I started making chain and rocken of all siaes. At the present time I am miking about ten <fif­ferent styles (rf these itans and this year I a n planning to add a table to go with ny diild's chain. My diain are inexpensive in Min|wiiiiin to the iqtholstered and odier type duurs, tmd the majority of my buuness is in the southwest and south, although there are few states that I do not ship. It u an interesting buriness, and I like it very nmdi. 
"My only com^aint regarding thb section is the fact that althon^ thb town has a pnpwlatinii of probably 15,000, there are only IS CathoKci. We do not have n duirdi. but meet every other SuKlay m the City Halt A priest from Johnson City, Tenn., which is 60 
March-April, 1952 
from here. Wc arc only 40 miles from Kno.willc where the\- do have a Catholic Church, but our priest always comes out of the mission parish in 
J. C. Wc have a fund that wc have been ^vork­ing on for several years now, so perhaps before long we will be able to have a small chapel. So at least things are looking brighter for us. 
**Devere, I hope 1 have given you the infor­mation you had in mind when you dropped mc your note of the 3rd. And again let me say that your column in the ALUMNUS is always looked forward to, as it is about the only way 1 have of ever knowing what other ND men are doing—it is a rare occasion when I get lo sec and talk to one.*' 
And from our Missouri reporter, held incom­municado for a whole year, a most w Icomc report. From Bob Hellrung: 
"The other day I came across a letter that you *\TOtc me Febniar\' 4. 1951—^just a few days more than a vear ago. In it you ask for sonic class news for the ALUMNUS. 
"The reason for my not writing you is because things have been rather dull here in St. Louis. Nothing new has been happening to the members of the class of *30 and none of the boys from out of town have called mc on their way through the dty. We seem to be in a rut. 
"Yours truly is still active in Notre Dame affairs, recently hax^DR been co-cliairman of a committee that brought the Notre Dame Glej-Club to St. Louis on Januar>' 25th to sing at our Municipal Opera House. The afTair was vcr\' successful and we hope to make it an annual one. 
''Saturday night of this week we are looking for%vard to the Notre Dame-St. Louis University basketball game here in our Municipal Audito­rium. The game has been sold out for the past two weeks and now it is difficult to buy tven standing room space. 
•'As soon as I have any news to report to you on other members of the class, rest assured that you will hear from me. Congratulations on the excellent job that you arc doing as class secre­tary, especially in the latest issue nf the ALUMNUS. 
"Best personal regards." A welcome reporter. alv%"ays. is that gentleman from Cleveland, brancli manager for SnclaJr Re­fining Co. COME IN Jack Elder: 
"Just a note to give you a bit of infomiatiim about some fellows and some names of fellows whom I have met during the last few weeks in my wanderings here and there. Was over in Akron, Ohio, last week speaking at a Holy Name Society banquet for St. Sebastian's parish and ran into a number of the fellows. 
"Charies Sdmur of the class of 1929 I believ. was toastmaster and did a magnificent Job. Tom (Bud) Marltcy was there and was host to some of the ND fellows before the affair. 
Also at the banquet were Chick McGuckin, Art Keaney, Htigli Calopy, Bcmie Ley, Stc\c Sitko, Ed Barch, president of the Akron ND Club. UllI MoUoy, AI Hilkcrt, Mickey McDcrmott, Gerald Kline and the three Wozniak brothers led by Steve. I wish I knew the classes all these fel­lows came from but I was unable to get this information. 
"Just recently here in CIcvrland a bunch of us got together to say hello to Frank (Spike) McAdams who was in toivn with Senator Douglas who was guest speaker at the Bar Association luncheon. I think Spike was in our class too for, like Pat Canny I think he was in ever\- class from 1925 to 1930. 
"I was highly honored recently when, on the occasion of our family Communion Breakfast at which Father Hesbui^h spoke, Father Hesburgli consented to baptize our latest arrival, our seventh child, Elizabeth Ann. I only hope she absorbs some of the kindliness that our good Vice-Presi­dent exudes. Wc now have five girls and two boys and from the way things are going at our house all of our football players will have to play at St. Mary's across the road. Oh, well, football teams need cheer leaders, too. 
So much for now. Just had a few moments to jot down these notes which may be of interest to someone, somewhere." 
Just to prmc that New England is not cut off from the rest of the country' by the winter's sDow and ice storms, here is Bridgeport, Con­necticut's ever reliable reporter. John "Bus" Redgate: 
"Many thanks for your card. Trust that you and yours have a healthy and happy New Year. 
"Not much news frcm here. Harold Magncr BCS (about 1931) has opened a new appliance store here in town and is doing very well. Dr. Vince Gorman is also taking this town in stride. He and John Mitdiell Murphy both work out of Saint Vincent's hospital. John is really running the place. 
"I expect to leave for Philadelphia tomorrow-to take in the Installation of His Excellency, Tbc Most Re\-creod John - Francis O'Hara, C.S.C., D.D., as Archbishop of Philadelphia. It doesn't seem like twent>* years since he was just Prefect of Religion. Time really fiics. 
"Howard Smith, 29, who is coaching Mt. St. Michael's in Mount Vernon, N. Y., brought his team up here a month or so ago and trimmed a very good Fairfield Prep team. Tom Murphy, '29, was the referee, if that had anything to do with it. 
"About all I can give you at this date, Dcvcre." 
Rev. Joseph A. M. Kmiedk, C.S.C., for the past tw*o years superior of the Holy Cross Fathers Mission Band, with headquarters at St. Edward's University', Austin, Texas, has been recalled to active duty with the Air Force. Chaplain (Major) Kmiecik went to Fort Sloctmi, New York, on Februarv' 18 for a forty da>'s' chaplains' course before reassignment. 
A native of New Wavcrly, Texas, Father Kmie­cik attended St. Edward's Unii'ersity High School before entering Holy Cross Seminary- at Notre Dame, Indiana, in 1922. He was ordained in 1934. 
Shortly after assignment to parish work in South Bend, Father Kmiecik went to Czartorysk, Poland, in 1936. He remained at Czartorysk until the Soviet invasion of Eastern Poland in January, IWO-
Upon his return to the States, Fatlier Kmiecik was engaged in mission work in Texas until 1942 when he joined the Chaplains Corps in August. 1942. From Fort Lewis, Washington, he went to the .Aleutian Islands, and was separated from service in May, 1946, 
j^':^ 
Jack O'Kcefe's, '30, nine children are: Peggy, Jimmy, Mary Ellen, Kathleen, George, Betsy, Michael, Patrick, and Eileen. 
1931 
James T. Doyle, Sccreur^­G437 N. Bell Avenue Chicago 45, Illinois 
The new year is off to a good start, and if correspondence received so far is an indication of what will follow our colimin will occupy the Number One position in the ALUMNUS for 1952. 
The Notre Dame Club of Chicago held iu annual election of officers on January 30th at the Merchants and Manufacturers Club. The class of 1931' had a special interest in this party. AI Stcpan, the retiring president, is to be congratu* lated for the excellent conduct of club activities during his term in office. Gil Seaman w*as elected First Mcc President and is due to follow in Mr. Stepan's footsteps next year. 
I bad a very fine letter from Earl Bricger of Pittsburgh, Pa., and it is full of news. I met Harold Stdnr and Eddie Ryan at our high school alumni banquet. Harold had recently seen Doa Mmphy of Mexico City and prombed to write me a letter for the next Issue of the ALUMNUS. 
We extend a welcome to Byron Kearney, Kings­ton, Pa., and hope that he will come through with a letter within the next month. The other night while out to see Frank Holland I had a chance to see Red O'Conndl. He mentioned several of our classmates and was particularly glad to hear of F. X. Murphy, from whom I had a recent letter. 
Red is doing a bang-up job in sales for the Gazzola Drug & Chemical Co. in Chicago. I met Henry, Jr., and his father can certainly be proud of him. Mrs. O'Connell had recently undergone a serious oi>eration and is now on the way to recovery. 
I had a wonderful letter from F. X. Murphy, who is now in Roswcll, New Mexico. They left Manitowoc in 1949 due to the ill health of Mrs. Mtuphy. The warm climate is doing her some good and according to his letter she is showing improvement. "From the report on the reunion that I got ria the ALUMNUS you all had a good time—^wish we could have made it. Johnnie and I talked about it but with Mike in the sha^K, or rather as out of shape as he was wc thought that we'd better pass it this time. It must have been fun to see the boys and hear them brag about their families, etc.—that's what I'd have done, you'd have been so dam sick and tired of hearing about the Murphy clan that you'd have been glad to see me go! 
"Twenty years is a long time—Johnnie and I will be married that long this August, think of that fella! That's a long time to be tied to one woman, I tell her; I also remind her that age 40 is a dangerous time and that she'd better watch me. I gu:ss she's not much worried—what can an old, bald headed burned out male like me do? 
"I'm still with Eastman Products Corp. and cover, as I've told you before, New ^fexico, Arizona, Colorado and West Texas—about nine hundred thousand miles square I think—some­times it seems much more. Business has been good but because of material shortages * we have not been able to keep our deliveries up to par and that hurts me because I get paid on the material we deliver, not the material I get orders for! I guess we're getting our fair share of material so I'm not moaning about it—some arc much worse off than we arc, as long as I can keep enough food on the table and two jumps ahead of the law Til go along." 
EasI Bricger writes: 
"Congratulations on the fine job you arc doing as Class Secretary-. You have really stirred up the old class and, consequently, we all look forward to the news you have in the 1931 Class column. I was back for two of the class re­unions, but unfortunately missed th; last one (20 year) which undoubtedly was the best. I had planned on being there, but a trip to Mexico City came up at the last minute and, conse­quently, was not able to get to the Bend. Saw BOI Beming in Beevillr, Texas, on my way back from Mexico. He is in the beer distributing business (Schlitz), married and has a teen-age son. He is doing fine and doesn't seem to show much wear despite the past twenty years. Bill says he sees Tom Mnnahan once a year when Tom comes down to Becvillc to buy material for his brocnn factory* in Areola, Illinois. 
**Art Bo^en and I were out to the Bend for the last Army-ND football game. Bill McCarthy from Kansas City was also there, and we all got together that night for a real old time session. We had our wives with us, but Bill was still single. He has since married and is living in Kansas City. .Art Bergen has four boys and a j^I. Two of the boys are twins. I have four children, two boys and two girls, and not to be outdone by Bergen, two of mine are twins. 
"Dkfc O'Donncll, Jdin Hickcy, and BiUy Ma­
ganal Uvc here in the city and I sre them every 
now and then. John is an attorney and works for 
one of the iudges in Orphans* Court. Dick is 
with some advertising company and Billy is em­
plojred with a local construction company. Billy 
Magarral's wife, Pauline, died rather suddenly on 
January 7. 
"Enjoyed Bob Dendall's note in the September-
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

October issue of the ALUMNUS. My best regards to him. Bob, should you get in Pittsburgh in your travels, be sure and visit me. Martin Wider*s letter in the November-December issue of the ALUMNUS was read with much pleasure and interest. Congratulations on your fine family, Martin. As you know, Martin, 1 deserted all my fellow engineers and ended up being a lawyer. I am in practice here in Pittsburgh. I say this, having in mind, John Anderson, Jim O'Brien, Ed Coomes, Bob Baskerville, Dan Egan, Francis Looey, Herb Perry> and all the rest of the gang that used to struggle with us in our E.E. classes. ^fy best regards to all you guys. 
*'Wcn Jim, there bn't much more to write, 

that • I can recall or that might be of interest 
to youV Details are boring and would be of in­
terest to only a few, so will end this fcr the 
time being. 
"Be sure and give my regards to all of the 

*31ers in Chicago." 
John Bums* letter: ­
Dear Jim: 
"Thanks for the card which reminded me of 
the promise to drop a few lines now and then 
for use in the '31 class news. Hope the following 
may be of some interest. 
''Saw the Michigan State game on TV at Ed 
'Slim* Mahon*s home in Parkchester and after the 
game we called Ritchie 'Judge* Bariwr for his 
reaction. Result—Ed. his wife Kitty, and m>-self 
drove to Rye and helped 'forget' the score by 
joining Ritchie, his wife Frances, and several 
others of the Barber family at the Rye Volunteer 
Firemen's annual dinner dance. We all had a 
grand evening. I stayed over to sec my god­
child, Joan, their youngest. Ritchie and Frances 
have five children—three girls and two boys. 
Ritchie's law partner is New York State Senator 
Frank McCullough. 
"Drove to Milford, Delaware, over the "Savy 
game w-eek-end and had a ver\' pleasant visit 
with Ed and Virginia Cunningham. They have 
five boys and a GIRL—the girl arriving in Novem­
ber 22nd. They are ver>- happy over the new 
addition. Ed is in the poultry business in Mil­
ford and doing very well. Michael, the oldest 
boy. is attending prep school in Wilmington and 
is a future ND prospect. Ed was unable to make 
the reunion but I gave him first hand information 
of the wonderful time even going so far as to 
inform him that Joe Decb's storN* of finding me 
under a tree was a tall tale. 
Frankic 'Red* Da\-id, '29, of New Orleans. La., stopped off in June en route to Casa Blanca where he is in a civilian capacity with the Army Engineers. His wife and son followed shortly after and Bill Kelly, '29. and I entertained them while they were awaiting transportation. Frankie expects to be over there about three years. 'Red' was wont to work out in the gym and developed a ver>' good left hand under the able tutelage of Spike McAdams and Johnny Prrece. 
"I see where Spike is now judging fights in 
Chicago these nights. If you happen to see him 
give him my best. Johnny Precce, '30, is now a 
practicing medico in Trenton. New Jersey, special­
izing in obstetrics. He is single and still the same 
swell person we knew at school. I've seen him 
several times over the course of the years. John 
also has a farm in Newtown, Pa., with livestock, 
a couple of good jumpers and a few flat racers. 
Saw Bill KcUy, '29, Tim Toomey, '30, and Art Dendiy, '30, among others at the Notre Dame Club meeting last \yednesday at the Biltmore. Herb Giorgio, '32.* was installed as president for 1932 suct^eding Jim NfcGoldrick. Toomey hears regularly from Father Jim Rizer, '31, who is now located in Roanoke, Va. 
Tom 'Cozy* Dolan, '32, dropped into the office to see me last week and we had a real gabfest. He is as chipper as ever and busily engaged as Vice-President of the Nassau Photo-Engraving Co.. Mineola, Long Island, working out of the New-York office. Has four children and lives on 
Riverside Drive here in tlie city. He has been in touch with Bill Lyndi, '32, who is okay, still single and working for Sterling Products. Tom informed me that Johnny R>'aB, '32, has a nice position with Republic Aviation and that Bud Tuohy, '31, is also out there. 
"Do you ever run across Jim Mulvaaey in Chi? He is with Mather Coupon Ticket Division of Commercial Controls Corp., 2924 North Western Ave. Give him my best if you should happen to see him at any of the Chicago get-togethers. Also to Frank Bntorac. 
"Had a pleasant surprise when I chanced to meet Bill O'Malley, *31. his wife and his sister 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
T. E. "BEN" OAKES 

T. E. "Ben" Oakes, '31, formerly manager of general sales development for Trans World Airlines, has been elected vice-president of the newly organized Crimsco, Incorporated, in Kansas City, Missouri, 
The Crimsco organization, which has existed since 1950 as a division of Truog-Nichols, Inc., manufactures and distributes cargo handling and other equipment for several national airlines, as well as other materials handling units. 
Oakes, who was associated with TWA for ten years until August, 1950, when he joined the Truog-Nichols Company to direct Crimsco sales and sales promotion, was pre­viously located at Boston and Chicago with a building materials manufac­turer. 
in the French Hospital on January 18th. They were visiting Bill's sister Ann who is a patient. I had seen Bill at the reunion. 
"Was very sorry to read of Tom Goldca's 
tragic events. Also the death of Ray Maanix. 
**That*s about it for now^ Jim. Keep up the good work you are doing as class secretary. It is so good to open the ALUMNUS and find more than a line or two under the 1931 heading. 
*'Pass along my best wishes to the boys you may happen to contact. I do hope that you and your family will have a healthy and happy year in 1952." 
Matt Garrigan of Detroit writes: 
Dear Jim: 
**Thanks for your card^ it was the prod that was needed. Might offer an objection about the '31 column not carrying news of Detroit. Last issue had a scjuib from Mart Wider and he co\*­ered the local parish, Gesu, pretty well. lo fact it was Mart's example that put the idea into my mind to do likewise and as I have mentioned your card was most opportune. It was nice hearing from you Jim and with that I'll pro­ceed with what I have gathered. 
'*! attended the* opener at ND to see the Indiana game and with 56,000 others came away impressed. After the game I met Taa OTUMkr . 
'30, who was with rnl f O^iilatny, "M. 
and Coleman's wife aad two soas. Tim is travr 
eling out of New York City for the New Yock 
Life. Coleman has left the Big City aad aow 
is located sooicwfaerc m Ohio. 
After tlie Sontheim Methodist gtrnte had a vint 
with AattiB loyie. Joe C«icr« '32, aad our trim 
made tlie trq> aad eajoycd evcrythiag Imt the 
score. Made a wed-ead of it staylag o«enight 
at Schukr's ia Marshall, Mich. Jm Ca«r has 
recently beea elected Treasurer of Kelsay Hayes 
Wheel and needless to say he aad his ftieads 
are happy about this aew pramotioa. 1 - tfaiak 
Joe now qualifies for that "Spotli^t Ahaaaas" 
Jin Armstioag features. We also had a visit 
with Father Jcny Wihoa who prefects ia the 
OU College BMg. over by the Log ChapeL 
Father's pre-game dope was a toochdowM oc 
two off. 
''Hcarr Kopek, '31, and his brothers did aa 
excellent rcmodeliag job on thor White Ea^ 
Laundry between washings. Plywood and ^mt 
paneling gives the office the touch and coaifort 
the boys need after a hard day with the "^ngtrr 
and washers. 
''How about uuttg Gate 5 as a rendezvous after 
the games? M^ t have a chance for a vint 
that might otherwise be missed. 
"Expect to make the annual NI>-Detroit chib 
retreat at Manressa the first week in Lent aad 
will pass on any nem I can gather. 
''Best regards Jim to you and the Chicago gang, 
thanks again for the prod." 
HEARD BUT NOT SEEN Joe Haraey is an instructor in practical psr­chology at Wright Junior College, Chicago. He's a little busier than that one statement indicates, though. He is in Wright's Placement Office, and teadies the police course, too. Evemi^s he teaches adult education courses in psychology at La%irsoB YMCA. Joe took a Master of Arts at Chicago 
U. in 1936 and a Ph.D. in 1930 at Illinois T.ch. 
Ckailia Cndma, Jr., of Youngstown, C , was 
elected president of Cfmuncrcial Stam]nng and 
Shearing Co. in Deceniber, succeeding hb father, 
who had died suddenly. At the sthrer anniversaiy 
celebration of the Youngstown Alumni Club 
Charlie was named man of the year. 
Art Kane, of Baxter Springs, Kan., has left the 
position of advertising manager for Southwest m 
Gas and Electric, in Shreveport, La. He is now 
in a similar position with Empire District Electric 
Co. of Oklahoma. Art is parent of three young­
sters— Mary Alice, Michael Denis and EliEafaeth 
Ann. 
Bob Cunnrngham recently had a visit from Dave Rnk and his wife. Dave is physical educatioa instructor at Austin H^ , Chicago. 
Jim CBrica b an engineer with the Hq^way Department of the dty of Chicago. 
Congratulations to Joe Uttb, on behalf of the '31 Class, on his election to presidency of the University of Notre Dame Law Alumni Associa­tion. Jf>e is U. S. Attorney for the Western (Grand Rapids) District ol Michigan. 
In the latter part of January your secretary mailed about 20 ^ipeals for letters aad received the dbove included ones. It b hoped that thoae who have not yet replied will find time to send some informatioB for the next issue of the ALUMNUS. 
20 YEAR 
REUNION 
JUNE 6-7-8 

Jim rnlBai, Scoctan' 
17 Tisa^fe Anmt 
Daytiai 9. Mia 
As this is written fiaal plans for our big 20ih Retmion are beiag coaaplcted with CSV TnUU d<Mng most of the woelt. He has been in contact «rith the District Vice-nrcsideats who, ia tarn, have contacted class mcmbeis in their, itiyectise areas. 
Cliff has all his coaunittecs wofkiag toward a fine team, 'and promises that oars svill be the best xennion ever seen on . the campus. 
The dates again are Jane 6, 7, aad t. You can register aaytiaK Friday, June 6, and it will last 

March-April, 1952 
until Sunday. A hall will be aisigncd to stay in, and it is hoped that all of the actiwties can be held on the campus. Indications are that an extremely large number of the class will attend. 
FatlMf Paul Halfinan recently conducted an upperdassmen's Retreat at the Lourdes Academy in Clevdand. Father Paul is, among his many other activities. Director of the Cleveland Inter­collegiate Neu-man Club. 
Remi Rcnier is a Major with the Army Corps of En^eers, and was recently transferred to the Middle East District. His full address is .\PO 231, c/o Postmaster, New York. 
Among recent changes of address arc these: Fred Eiscnmann to 139 Center St.. New York; Jim Halligan to 303 Wysor BIdg.. Muncie, In­diana; Bill Mooncv to 265 Oakland .Ave. Statcn Island 10, X. Y., John Srniko to 1112 Elm­hurst, Peoria, 111.; Joe Strcbingcr to 818 Dover Dri^-e, South Bend 14; Ralph Witt to 2518 Jackson St., Wilmington, X. C ; and Frank TricH-cilcr to Bonesteel, South Dakota. 
Sri: you at the Reunion. 

1933 
Jotcpk D. A. McCabc, 5ecTetar>­632 Forest Ave. River Forest, III. 
Dear 33*s: 

We knew wc were %vorking back to par for the course, and this as it, brethren, this is it. Xo letters received since the last issue. 
WcVe met a lot of bo>-s here and there, but sec no point in just a recitation of names, when there is no news to go with them. However, the Alumni oScc gave us a bit of a h'ft, by sending us some new addresses for the fol­lowing classmates: 
Gena Calhrnm, 704 S. Spring St., Rm. 212, Los Angeles, Calif. Art Becvar, 547 Barberry Lane, Cherokee Gardens, Louis\iUe. Ky. Jesse Dickey, 2014 Leer St., South Bend 14, 
Ind. Ralph Ehr, 3120 Carey Ave., Davenport. loua. Chuck JaskHich, 4101 WIson Rd., Kenosha, 
Wis. Fred Laugfana, 2100 Oak Park .Ave., Dayton, 
Ohio. Frank Madden, 4307 S. 36th St., .Arlington, Va. Frank McGtCy 134 Keeler Ave., Bridgeport, 
Conn. 
J. Harold Roddy. 1613 Han-ard St. X. W., 

.Apt. 306, Washington, D. C. Bill Robison, Mountain Grove, Md. Filling all that space makes mc very glad the 
Alumni Office is still writing to me. 
Going through class names brings back a lot of memories, and posting the above changes of address makes you wonder about tlic men who moved, particularly those you knew well . . . CaIhoiin« Becvar, Jaskwich, Madden, McGee — yeah, Fred Langhna, too. Do they still look like they did the last time you saw them? 
Every once in a while I run into a group of men I used to know—school stuff, or fellow employees, slaves of the buck-hunt . . . and some change greatly and others not at all. But there's only one way to solve this problem . . . that's for the men I've named and all class of 33-crs to drop your wondering boy a line—now. 
For instance, I'm wondering if .Art Bec\-ar is still designing dreamboats for GE and if they moved him to another plant, or is he waving his facile brush for someone else? Did Chuck Jaskwioh stay uith football or pick a less bumpy career? Is that the tall dark and suave Madden who used to assist Messrs. Hodel, Rhati­gan, Mdiaffy and other Blades & Bucks in keep­ing the Palace out of the red? And if so, how does he like Arlington, no less? 
That's the way it goes . . . some months you just wonder. 
With Lent looming on—you will no doubt be deep- in the middle of it when you read this— it bchocnes us all to say a little extra prayer this year for some kind of guidance in this barrelhouse world. Out here in Chicago a sizable number of gentlemen are under fire as being agents of the Mafia, the Syndicate, and other illegal and often fatal oiganizations. Or else they are being panned for not purging from politics the mciiU>crs of these outfits. Things may be better elsewhere, but all a guy has to 
do is to lift his eyes to the international scene to realize that evTry-body has enough trouble* everywhere* to go around . . . and to warrant some overtime knee duty. 
For myself, one of my prayers is gonna be that I get some correspondence out of this class in the coming months. Please? 
Best regards, Joe McCabe 

Joe Krakcr's ('29) children are top to bot­tom: John, Betty Jo, Joe Jr., Mary, and Jeny. 
1934 
Edward F. Mansfield, Secretary 
6575 N. GlenwDod, Apt. 1 
Chicago, Ilh 
This edition of the Thirty-Four News, suc­

cessor to the Depression "Hmes, is an experi­
ment in style. Lest it become a one-time news­
paper in more ways than one, readers are re­
ferred to the house ad under CLASSIFIED. 
Unique in publishing, this newspaper has a 

guaranteed circulation but no guarantee of news 
unless its own readers turn wTiters. 
No other class newspaper offers these de­

partments: 
FOREIGN 
ROME.—Completing an extended foreign serv­

ice tour here, Vincent G. McAIoon of the Amer­
ican Catholic Club of the NCWC at Via Consala­
tione 1 has been transferred to Staff Special 
Services, APO 331, c/o Postmaster, San Fran­
cisco. It is strongly suspected that he is not in 
San Francisco. 
PARIS.—Disappearing from alumni circles after 

filing a lucid, fact-filled report from 6 rue 
Daunou here, James Fitzpatrick has sent no 
further dispatches to Your Xews Service's foreign 
desk. A moulin-by-moulin scarcli of Montmartrc 
hill has been initiated. 
QUEBEC—Charles D. Cashman's mail, for­merly delivered to Xew Norzone Mine, Rouyon, Quebec, is now going to Mrs. D. J. Cashman, 309 W. Navarre, South Bend, Ind., U. S. A. 
HEIDELBERG.—The Rev. Edmund Murray re­cently arrived here for duty with the Chaplains Di\-ision from Booterstown, Ireland. Father Mur­ray denied any connection between his former station and the department of punting at Xotre Dame. ''Coincidental," the chaplain said. 
QUEBEC—The Rev. Richard SuUivan, CS.C , left 144 Claire Fontaine here for a new post at Pius X Seminary, North Easton, Mass., U. S. A. 
PRESS 

WASHINGTON.—(AP)—BULLETIN AP BU­REAU WASH DC ANNOUNCES ARRIVAL JAMES C AS IN CHARUE MUN^' FROM AP ROCHESTER NY OFFICE MORE FROM MUNN TO FOLO AP BUR WASH DC. 
MEDICINE 
SPRINGFIELD, ILL.—Dr. Robert Nachtwey is Dow practicing medicine here and residing at 701 South Second St. A former Mayo clinic staff member. Dr. Nachtwey is being asked for his own story of his stud>* and travels from the time he left the flatlands of Iowa. 

COLUMBUS, O.—(INS)—Suie Health Direc­tor JoluK D. Porterfidd warned that the school narcotics traffic • is moving into Ohio where treatment facilities arc "grossly inadequate." The duector told the third annual conference of local Ohio health commissioners that "prevention here 
i: the only hopeful answer." FIRE 
CHICAGO. — Gene Holland, N D commerce graduate, was seen making motions like a fire­man at an apartment fire on Albion in Rogers Park. Mr. Holland told a YNS reporter that 
•lis great interest in this particular blaze sped him to the scene before professional smoke-eaters arrived. He attributed his early arriral to two factors: 1) his speed from ND training days, 2) his residence in the same building. 
PROMOTIONS 

CHICAGO.—U. S. Rubber Company here an­nounced that Thomas R. Grimes, formerly of South Bend, has just been made sales manager of the Chicago plant, a plastics producer. Mr. Grimes was transferred from the Mishawaka plant after working there since 1939. (excerpts from W.. R. Dooley press ser\ice, ND, Ind.) 
FI.VANCE CINCINNATI.-Robert Chenal of 1033 Loiska Lane, has resigned 3S assistant trust officer of the First National Bank here, and will eniir law practice early in '52. In an inter\-iew in his new white brick home. Mr. Chenal said his new address will be 401 Second National Bank Bldg. He further revealed that he had seen George "Jack" Meister in Miami, that Bob Van Lahr is scill manager of the Twenty-Nine Palms Inn. that Fred Sul­livan is in advertising in Cincinnati, that Dick Sluds is with Sliiels Lumber until 5 p.m. and with six children after 5. TELEVISION CHICAGO.—Under a two-column cut in the Herald-American, the local Hearst paper said. "Television star George Menard turns a fatherly smile on his daughter Paula 8, as she puts the H-A's 'Wanda,' the Walking Doll, through her paces. TV viewers may see 'Wanda' Monday through Friday on Menard*s WBKB program. 'Fun and Features' (9-10:30 a.m., channel 4)." TOD.AY'S GUFF.AW The Sales Executive AVecklv of N.Y. told this: In '49, ND whomped the N.C. Tarheels 42-6 after a &-6 standoff into the third. In the purple of the evening, a die-hard Tarheel Clag­homed for 73 minutes in a grape-juice parlor about what might have been had the Chapel Hilltans been able to shoot Mr. Ch. Ch. Justice \*s. the Irish. At the 74-minute mark the lepre­chaun behind the grapejuicc bar shook a white towel in fist and brogued: '^Listen, Mac, with or without this Choo-Choo, we could'vc licked yc with our Protestant platoon!" 
RESORTS 

MIA^H.Faris Cowart, ex-ND backfield man, was dealt a bad handoff in the '30*s by the quarter­back from Depression, Hardy Times, left Iicre this fall long enough to visit Notre Dame, then visit Michigan State with Notre Dame, then return to Miami to let sunshine heal his wounds from the Michigan State stop. Mr. Cowart urges any '34 men fortunate enough to reach Miami to reach him at 1803 SW 8th. (Editorial com­ment: President of Miami N D Club and local-accountant, Faris has done much to interest noo^almani in \*isiting and helping ND and its Foundation.) 
WILDLIFE NEWS BATON ROUGE.—The Louisiana State Tigers recently had a chance to welcome a wolf. Ullliam 
A. Wolff bedded down here at 936 Moreland after prowling in from Lafayette, La. Dick Kdley has been recommended locally as the local trainer most likely to become AVoIf's handler on nightly prowls. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 

Wanted—^More than 500 reporters as mail cor­reqkondents, male, for Your News Service. Appli­cants limited to ND '34 class. Knowledge of typing not required. Ability to write not re­quired, since any standard communication means is acceptable to city desk of YNS, including jungle drmns (excluding collect wires). Open 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

shop. Address inquiries to 6375 N. Glemvood, Chicago 26. All inquiries definitely not kept confidential. Not enough of our employees know about this ad. 
MILITARY 

BRONX, N. Y.—Lootenant Dan Brick is now located at 4300 Martha Avenue here. Unless security restrictions interfere, Lt. Brick is being asked for a full report to this newspaper. 
REAL ESTATE 

New homes and apartments and other shelter have recently been acquired by the following readers: John A. Devine to Mur\-er Ct., West­port, Conn.; Bill Powell to 156 Hampton Blvd., Massapegua, L. I., N. Y.; Dick C3iapleau to 110 Pokagon, South Bend; Bill Escher to 2224 Canada Blvd., Glendalc, Calif.; Enunett Conkling to 529 Westway, Harundale, Glcn Bumie. Md. (Personal—in it now Mister, Major, Colonel, or General, and have you seen John Rocca 0*Han­lon, who may or may not rank you by now?}; Edward J. Fisher to 111 North Broadway, White Plains. N. Y.; Edmund W. Hafiier, 402B X. Albany, Chicago 18; the Rev. Bernard Mullahy, CS.Cy from Community Infirmary to Provincial House, Notre Dame; Jc^n Journalism Conley to 207 Saint Dunstand's Road, Baltimore 12 (there's a fine foreign correspondent who never reported on his last trip over there); Jim Ross to Box 22, Glen Oaks, Floral Park, N. Y.; Tom Brobson to 508 McKinley Parkway, Buffalo 20; Johnny Ruppel to 345 Crest Drive, San Jose, Calif.; Huii Carroll to 780 Grange Rd., Teaneck, N. J.; Joseph W. Nelson to 5638 North 10th Drive, Phoenix; John J. O'Connor to 6111 Walnut, Kansas City, Mo,; Julius J. Kiraly to 14 5. 
Park, Hinsdale, 111.; Qem Pbwers to 2401 Pier Ave., Santa Monica, Calif.; George Wenz to Box 196, Packanack Lake, N. J. (that's how they pronounce "picnic" in Jersey); Les Jandoli to 31 Bradwood Rd., Stamford, Conn. 
NEWCOMERS CORNER 

NOTRE DAKIE, IND.—These wise gentlemen have applied for membership in the class of *34 through the alumni office: William P. Hughes of 5 Evelyn Rd., Port Washington, N. Y.; Robert 
S. Ryan, 9 Keasly Rd., South Orange, N. J-, and HanJd Stone of 719 Jefferson, Springfield, 111. 
EDUCATION 

LONG BEACH, CALIF.—Brother Francis A. Davis is now on duty here with the teaching staff of St. Anthony's high school. 
MISSING PERSONS 

NOTRE DAME, IND.—The alumni office an­nounced here that these names have shown up in the unclaimed mail: Dr. Joseph R. Caton, John F. Fisher, formerly of 5644 Stanton, De­troit, and Gene Bogardus, formerly of 706 E. Ewing, South Bend. Mail clues to James -Arm­strong. 
LEGAL CHICAGO.—Howard Jcffers (law '36) and John Brecn, Chicago lawyers, are now with an all-ND legal backfield of strong Celtic tradition. The halfbacks arc Tom Donovan, '24, and John Sullivan, '24, e pluribus unum, and they use the "I" and "We" formation at 134 E. LaSalle in this city's financial canyon. 
INSURANCE BALTIMORE.—In one of the most roimdabout relays of news since Magellan first got through to his home office, the good word about two '34 men came to light here in a dispatch from Frank Holahan, '33, to Frank Hochreiter, '35 (that is NOT his age). Insisting upon a split fee on space rates, Hochreiter today permitted Your News Scr\"ice to reveal that Ed Graham, '34, is in the in­surance business in Galcsburg, 111., and that Pat Bums, '34, is in the same line down the river at Natchez, Miss. Pat refuses to offer coverage for those diehards waitin' for the Robert E. Lee—and still looking for the boat bookies who took th'eir bets. 
LEATHER GOODS SAN FRANCISCO.—In a special stor>-, George Cunmungs told YNS that he is "married, with four children, an accountant by profession, doing accounting and purchasing with a tanncr>' and wool pullery" (Legallet Tanning Co., 1099 Quesada Ave.). Cummings said his hobby is working around his three-acre homcsitc in the countr>', swimming 
March-April, 1952 
("having a pool in California is like having a TV set in Chicago," he said), and raising a family. 
'*I learned with deep regret of the. passing of a member of oiir class. Ted CardOe died in May in Reno, where he was practidng law with his dad, E. P. Carville, who was a graduate of ND many years past. E. P. Carville has been a judge, governor, and senator of Nevada. Ted did not graduate from ND, as he dropped out in '32 because of illness. Ted's mother was a South Bend girl." 
After expressing disappointment over the few names of his ND friends showing up in Thirty-Four News, Mr. Cummings said, *T hope to in­spire some of my former pals to write." 
ENGINEERING NEWS NE^VARK,—In a mail interviev.* with Reporter Robert Cahill, OiB SausviUe, an architectural graduate of ND, issued the following statement from his office la the P. Ballatine & Sons brew­ery, 57 Freeman St. 
"Sncc graduating from the architectural col­lege, I have drifted into industrial engineering and have been with P. Ballatine & Sons, Amer­ica's foremost brewers (display rates were sent to this man), for 15 years, in the engineering department in charge of piping. 
"I live in South Orange with Mrs. SausviUe and the three children. We rarely run into any of our old classmates, but upon occasion I do see Les Jandoli, well married and with two children. Les lives in West Orange (Ha! see Real Estate, this edition) and is climbing the Prudential ladder of success." (This newspaper needs an ad manager). 
Sausx-ille congratulated Newsman CahiU for making Notre Dame his career, asked to be re­membered to classmates, and hoped for a 20th anniversary meeting with them all. 
BUSINESS MACHINES SCARSDALE, N. Y.—Advertising Manager A. Donald Brice of Dictaphone Corp., pointed out in a release from his home here at 78 Penn Road that "our class follows the feast or famine cycle: t^vo full pages one issue, virtually nothing the prenous one." (see Classified section). "I recently had a very nice note from Dean Manion, to \%'hoin I had sent 50 iiopies of one of our company magazines in which I had re­printed Harry Luce's unexpected piece: 'Holmes Wa-. Wrong'." (N.B.: Company magazine edited by Don: "It's Said and Done." Get on the mailing list. It's free, it's good, it's Bricc's.) 
NIGHT BEAT 

DETROIT.—The first night football game in ND history here against Detroit attracted Mr. and Mrs. Ed Roach of 9211 S. Loomis in Chicago and Mr. Roach's ND roommate. Dr. Oldham of Lockport, N. Y., and Mrs. Oldham. Tickets were obtained through a service main­tained on the budget floor of Breen-Phillips hall at Notre Dame, managed by a Mr. Cahill. 
Ainnan-of-tfac-iDOiitli Frank Lombardo^ right, receiving a bracelet from Maj. Gen. N. B. Harbold, at Sampson AFB, New York. Lorn­bardo was selected on a basis of leadership, military ability and performance of duty. Center is Maj. Dan Handler, Lombardo's CO. 
SFOftlS NEW YORK.—Hi«h Devon, NYU food»aD coadi and oma of ND*! aO-tiae great cads, a ^ peared here on a naUoawnle broadcast at a gnest of Granthiad Mce. A r^ort ttom the ifafharfi of OUo revealed that the aincast reached all the way to a car radio moiutoced by the editor of Thirty-Four News. 
CHICAGO.—Fknsed with O M foot OD the St. Locus Chib special traia steps, aad oae om Fred BIcNciirs foot, VIKW C Fch% toM Ihirtr-Foor News here that be had sees these per­sonages at the SMU game (or had heard of them): SCeria riaA , another fine end, stm i» Tennessee, and rumored to be father of five; Al BfcGeff, cap^le coach of Wd>er Hi ^ in Chicago; towdl Hagaa, the Red; Al Snith, and Raf Trof. 
The owner of Fred McNcfll's foot, also said that a N D ardiitectural firm of Morrison aad Morrison is now in Rochester, N. Y, 
Toay Crawler stood on McNeill's other foot and publicly blasted Bn k KcuMdy and VfiKam Cbarfcs OToole for failure to write or to antear in public in iqipcr Iniliana on game days. 
A rumor-moi^er often found in such a gatb­' ering rumored that Dr. Gtargt. Blaha of Chicago was seen in the Rockne Memorial SBfU day. 
NOTRE DAME, Ind.—At the 32d annual foot­ball banquet in the univeruty dining halls. Coach Frank Leahy paid tribute to Athletic Director Edward Kranse's masterful assemblinx of football opponents for the '52 season. This, newspaper will also quote Mr. I^ahy at the end of the '52 foodiall season concerning Mr. Krause's judgment in signmg ten such fear­some ff>es. 
Ed Sullivan, MC of TVs TT (Toast of the Town), reminded a full house that Mr. Krause had played' all but 14 minutes his senior year, and demanded to know 'where he hid for those 14. 
FERGUSVILLE, IND. —F^nl Boms, South Bend ad executive, who began his ND career ai a *34 man and ended with '35 <m his di­ploma, entertained the fooduU banquet com­mittee and btmor guests at fais new home north of the university. At the junior-grade banquet in the Fergus kitchen aad dmuig^ room. Ticket-man Robert. CahBl told. Newsman Ed Bnras of the ChiTrib that he expects to hide under rocks soon if the pre-sale demand for '52 home­xames keeps up. That is interpreted by Thirty-Four News sports staffers to be a veiled hint to all '34 men to start their "dear old pal'" letters early. 
The Fergus frolic drew, amcmg others, Calla­han, DcwMraa, Kraase, CilaD, Ed Bans, "T*f"^ Wiboa of the Big Ten, Jerry lisha and Ed Stansbitry of Chicago press services, Joe Doyle-and Fud NcviOe of the South Bend Trib, Al McGana, and others still snowbound in Fergiis­\-ine. 
WOMEN'S SECTION 

Mrs. ViKcat FchEg of St. Louis, nee Hazef Higgins, was seen methodically kicking the shins of a Thirty-Four newsman in retaliation for be­ing short-changed. He had reported four little-Fehligs at 7136 Lindell, St. Louis. 
There are FIVE. 
CONSTRUCTION Travelers in the northern Indiana area, are-urged with the coming of spring to visit the-Notre Dame campus to see the fast progress, made in the four new buildings-rising on the front plaza. Alumni travelers can be distinguished* from non-alumni by the soft glow of pride seen through the Indiana dusk. 
Contributing aliunm tiavelers can be distin­guished by the exuberant manner in which ther point out the structures to strangers as "OUR. new buildings." 
INVESTMENT NEWS All Thirty-Four News readers arc reminded of a current excellent investment, with. payments of %l to $1,000,000 accepted, in the Notre DSBM-Foundation. The Father John Cavanat^ Dedi­catory issue is currently a favorite, aad no other investment now available offers as much retnr» in satisfaction, smart outlay in capital eciuip^ meat; increase in value of degrees with paingr, -. of years. Address investment amounts aad ia-~ quiriei to Foundatioa, Notre Dame, ladiaaa. Try a dollar or two a moath to start, everr month. They'll mail you reminders. 
3S 
HOUSEHOLD HINTS 
To keep your desk at home clear of all 
blank paper and envelopes, try this helpful hint 
from our tidiness editor: 
Fill each page with notes about yourself and 
HD friends, job, family, books written, golf 
•courses
 conquered, promotions earned (or un­-eamed), and sweep them into an envelope ad­

•drcssed
 to the editor, Thirty-Four News, scr\'cd bv Your News Service— 


E. F. Mansfield, 6575 North Glenwood, Chicago 26, III. 
What other paper offers you a chance to be both writer and subscriber? 
NAV^' BLUES 
Frank X. Connelly (PO Box S452. Carmcl-by-
the-Sca) sums up 20 years with a helper for 
Tour sccretar>% who swung at a dateline and 
missed. His summing-up: 
'*\Vas a little disappointed in the January-
issue of the ALUMNUS (So was your secre­
tary, and your secretary's spouse) in that it 
-carried no news of the Class of '34—even tho 
an "ex" of that \-intage. I get a kick out of 
reading of the doings of many wiiosc faces have 
long since faded from memory'— 
"Srems like a short 20 years since Mr. 
^*Heine*'" Maunis decided after correcting my 
exam papers that I had a great deal more to 
learn about foresights and back sights than I 
~^^•3Z able to exhibit on his examination. Inasmuch 
as this same learned professor had the ill for­
tune to be given the difficult position of trv-ing 
to impart the intricacies of Descriptive Geometry* 
at one and the same time to this brain, with 
-approximately the same results as were apparent 
in hii 5ur\*eying class, it seemed highly desirable 
that I place some of my business with the cast-
bound New York Central Railroad. This was 

-done 
*"Bc that as it may—exactly 20 years later 1 
find myself out here in sunny, dew-lapped Cali­
fornia, recalled to active duty by the U. S. Na\->­

a-, of October, '51. I*m the assistant Resident Officer in charge of Construction for the new Navy Postgraduate School—and imagine: the first step in the new construction is a $5 million ENGINEERING BUILDING!!! 
HAD YOUR IRON"^' TOD.\Y? *"l'd say the irony in the situation is worthy •of mention and it is the only humorous thing 
in the whole chain of events which saw me as ^n "embryonic tycoon" in Rochester, struggling to promote Frank X. Connelly 8c Co., .Acoustical Contractor—the father of five Irishmen—suddenly and %rith hardly any warning on the way to Monterey. California, as a Lt. Comdr. in the 
•Civil Engineers, to help get this postgraduate school under construction! "In recent years Larry Carpenter and Bcmie 
Hcwiessey have been my contacts with ND '34. 
Larry is with R. T. French in Rochester, trying 
to find new ways to make mustard and pepper. 

"Bcmie is covering just about all of New York "State promoting the use of *'FoamGlass," a ^'ery good roof insulation. Dick Tobin passed -out of sight several years ago and has left no ^ign. 
**Keep up the good work and get those '34 Tx»\-:: to write more often." 
1935 
Franklyn C. Hodireiter, Sccretary 
1327 Ftetwood Road 
Baltimore 12, Maryland 

Here w^c are again gang, and this time we "had another **agent*' pull us out of the woods •or we wotdd have gone to press without a -word. Wc hope that the plug for news that -came out in the last ALUMNUS will bestir you into action. It gets pretty tough trying to Icnock out a column for you when there is 
nothing to urite about. Anyu'ay, here is the newssheet from out in 'South Bend, sent in by our Class Prexie, Bill Ryan. 
**lc has been some time since I passed on any information to you for which I am duly ashamed. A few months ^ o I had iKcasIon to spend 
^several days in Houston, Texas and before I left, I had lunch with Ray Keating, Tom Stand­iih amd Joe Jolws. At the time I made some -notes and then promptly mtsplaced them somc­-wAere between Texas and South Bend. Thev 
just came to light the other day so I am 
passing the following on to you. 
"Ray Keating has added considerable poundage since I last saw htm—which, of course he denies. He has a public accountant's office at 1438 Com­merce Building and from all appearances is doing ver\- well for himself. He has four youngsters—a girl nine years old, a boy six years old and twin boys three years old. Being a public accountant, he knows the \'alue of exemptions. 
**Tom Standish Is with the Houston Light and Power Company. He must be getting advice from Ray for he had five children when I was in Houston and I believe the count must be sLx by now for one was due within a month. The score when I saw him was three girls and two boys so I hope that last one was a boy to make ic even. 
*^Jo- Johns has been with Dupont since grad­uation. In 1949 he was transferred from Tacoma. Washington to Houston where he has been since. Joe has a 12-year-old boy and a nine-year-old girl. 
'"Two more of the thirty-fivers - arc also in Houston but it wasn't possible for me to sec them. However, the above trio imparted a few tid-bits about them. George Hill is also with Dupont as a department super\-isor and is located in LaPorle, Texas. At the time of my infor­mation, he had three children—two girls and a boy. Rocky Lang is with J. A. Walsh Electrical Appliance Company in charge of their Dumont Television Sales. The bo>'s told me that shortly before I arrived, he was on a TV program and did an excellent job. 
"Sorry that this Information Is quite belated but I hope you will get it in time now for the next Issue of the ALUMNUS. I might also men­tion that last week my old side-kick for four years, Ray Klargarett, was in South Bend at­tending a branch managers' meeting for our company. .\s you probably know, Ray and I have been with the same company almost the entire time since we graduated and Ray is now our manager at White Plains, New York. Time did not permit any social encounters this year so we were unable to swap information about each other. Ray has three boys and looks the same to mc as he did seventeen years ago, 
"My travels in recent months have taken me In all directions except East. However, Frank. there Is a possibility that I might get to Balti­more within the next 30 to 60 days and, if I do, I will give you a ring and maybe we can have lunch together." 
That's it, men! Do we do better next time? 
Immediately after mailing In our one letter the next mail brought another from John Gainer out there in Alton, Illinois. It's been tiv'elvc years since we saw or heard anything from Jack and his note was so welcome that wc are sending this along Immediately to the editor for inclusion in this month's chatter. 
This Is Jack's message for which wc arc so grateful: 
"Seeing our meager Class Notes In the cmrrent issue of the .ALUMNUS shamed me into for­warding ray first letter In years. Your faithful­ness and devotion to the class certainly deser^xs better than my past performance, at least, and I resolve to do better by you In the future. 
**Upon leaving Notre Dame, I entered Wash­ington University (St. Louis) Lavv' School and was graduated with an LL.B. In 1938. I be­came associated w*ith a firm here in Alton and engaged In general law practice until last year, when I came into the Trust Department of First National Bank & Trust Company in Alton. In January of this year I was appointed Trust Officer of the Bank. 
"During the War, I served in the army and spent some time overseas with the 88th In­fantry Di\-ision in Italy. While there, I ran into Harry nerce who was also with the Divi­sion and who was in the Class of '37, as I recall. Harry told me that Jim McDevitt was with the Division but I never got to see him. Another pleasant occasion, while in the service, was a tjiance meeting with Louis Grosso at Camp Patrick Henry, Virginia, on my way overseas. 
"I have been happily married since 1940. We have four children (three girls and a ix>y) two of %v-hom are now in the early years of grade school. 
"I attended the five-year reunion in 1940 and regretted missing the fifteen-year party. I cer­tainly look forward, however, to seeing the old crowd again In 1955." 
Fatlwr Charics L. Dorcmus, C.S.C., reports that Rocco S<iiiralti is operating a sports goods store in Gary (Indiana) and has himself a local radio show, too. 
And Father Tom Hewitt is back with the fly-boys again. He is ofiicially Chaplain (Major) Thomas E. Hewitt, C.S.C, Box 95. RCAFB, Weaver. South Dakota. 
BIRTHS To Lt. and Mrs. Edward J. Kilmurr>-, a daugh­ter, Kathleen Rita, Jan 7 in Milwaukee, Wis. 
1936 
A. H. "Lee" Moorman, Jr., Secretary­1706 Industrial Bank Building Detroit 26, Midiigan 
"Located: Sebastian "Bunny" Bonet, the un­dercover man for the La Raza Club during our college days. "Sabby" reports he b married to a lovely colleen, Patricia O'Brien; that he represents the Union Asbestos and Rubber Com­pany; and that he resides at Farhills, New Jer­sey, R. R. 1. He would like to hear from Tobcy .Cramer, Jack McKinley and Bill Quirk (so woald the secretary)* 
"Sabby" had quite a career with the United States Army in World War Two. Colonel Dona\-an's OSS office selected him as one of' the first United States representatives to para­chute into Greece. That Sabby had already mastered the language, methods and customs of the Frencli, Portuguese, Italians and Americans did not impress our Army. 
Accordingly, it was quite disturbing to Sabby to be relie\'ed of correcting Spanish papers at the Army school in Alabama and detailed to the University of Pittsburgh to learn Greek and as­similate the customs, etc., of the people he was scheduled to drop in on unannounced. As the secretary writes this and recalls the blond hair, blue eyes and sly ways of his Spanish friend, Bonet, and of his black market operations in examination papers with Joe Sullii'an in our Sc^homorc year, the secretary Is convinced that OSS really was coming up with the perfect agent in Bonet. 
However, as is often the case, the stor>' has a happy ending because when the proposed Balkan In\'asion was called off "Sabby" went into Nor­mandy with the Ninth Army and after hos­tilities ceased was placed in charge of Von Ribbentrop's champagne business. HIC! 
"Joo McDonald stopped over in Detroit after 

' an extensive business trip through the East. He is located in Davenport, Iowa, and is the daddy of seven clilldren. Joe said that he will be changing positions soon and that there is a possibility his transfer will be to Detroit or. better, still, to his native state of Vermont. 
**Pat" Tofuri, who is the New England rep­resentative of the Mastic Tile Company of America, sent a nice letter and has promised to help revive our Class column. "Pat," who has three daughters. Is living In Winchester, Mass.. and is a member of the Town Finance Board. He passes on the information that **Pepper" Martin Is coaching at Concord, N. H., and that he occasionally sees George Moriarty and "Andy*' Scafatiy who are teaching and coaching at Haver­hill and Norwood. Pat writes: 
"Ask some of my old friends like Shelby Rocmcre, Dan Sherrod and my roommate Joe Nigro to contribute to the column. The fellows aro not so busy that they can forget our early days. This world is hectic enough and if we cannot find time to share experiences and news together then we are fooling ourselves." 
Note to Pat Malloy. What news do you have of Harold "Butch** Gooden? When you see him ask him to drop the secretary a line. 
ADDRESS CHANGES Hal StiBC*! new address is 34 Kemp Avenue. Falrhaven, N. J. -Frances- Kellncr has moved from Kenmore, New York to 23 Wallace Avenue. BufFalo, Ncu-York. Dr. Thomas Dorris Is now with Jacobs En­gineering Company, 600 16th Street, Oakland, California. Father John Thomas McGcc, C.S.C., is back taking salutes in the Canadian Air Force. Father John is stationed at Goose Bay, Labrador, put­ting a hash mark on the ones he earned in 4 ^ 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

years during World War II with .various ground units of the Canadian Army. 
Those of the '36 class who might want to drop a note can reach him at RCAF. Goose Bay. Labrador. 
1939 
Mncc DeCoursey, Secretary 1917 Elizabeth Kansas City 2, Kansas 
Not an awful lot in the way of ni'ws from *3Q this issue. Seems as though the boys arc keeping out of trouble and too busy to write. Had a nice letter some time ago which somehow didn't get into print from Mrs. "Burly** Grimes proving, as had been said many times in the past, women are the best correspondents of Class '39. 
The Grimes live in Dayton, Ohio, where Ed is one of the mainsprings at Wright Field, having been there twelve years. Mrs. Grimes said that Bob Heuther had visited them while on business at the field — Bob is still at Northrop Aviation at Hawthorne, California. Seems like Wright Field has a pretty fair club since Hank RoliI» Jack Schulzc, Karl Fromutb, Wally Gercnd, Walt Grady and Roy Rasmusscn are all members. 
From Daniel Faluoni, who by all odds is the best correspondent this column has ever had. announcement that his first, a girl, arrived in mid-July (1951 that is).) Dan is practicing law at Lockport. New York. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Verhoestra. a son, Dec. 27 in South Bend. To Mr. and Mrs. William Piedmont, a daugh­ter. Regina Patricia, in New Haven. To Mr. and Mrs. Larry Sutton, a son. Larr>-, Jr., January 8. SYMPATHY To Jim Snyder, Hollywood, III., on the death of his father. To Jack Cole, Indianapolis, on the death of his father. 
1944 
George A. Barisctllo, Jr., Secretary 515 Fifth Avenue Bradley Beach, New Jersey 
Your Secretar>% under pressure of an early deadline (Februar>- 15 for the March-April ALUMNUS), embarks upon the pleasant task of reporting class news — but regrets to advise that only T^VO of our classmates found time in the weeks since the last column was threaded together to educate us on their whereabouts and respective careers. Before we get to their reports, however, (and please pardon the "lec­ture'*) I just want to emphasize the obvious: this corner in the "mag'* is reser\*ed for news about us; I can't invent it! So, I need your continued cooperation; better yet, I need your postcards and letters. So give! 
Now let's see what's new! 
Reported in this column an issue or two ago was an inquiry from one of our classmates for the whereabouts and doings of Kelly Cook» whom, you will remember, edited the DOME in our Junior year. Kelly has been ref:alled to active service and is now at Dow Air Force Base in Bangor, Maine (Box 222, Dow AFB) flying F-84 Thunderjets and F-51 Mustangs. 
He left N D in 1949 (where he had taught in the English department for two years), and then worked for Radio Station KCOM in Sioux City, Iowa until the fact of his presence in the Iowa Air National Guard changed things. Re­ports Kelly: 
''With the 174th Fighter Squadron of the Iowa Air National Guard, I was recalled to active military service in February*, 1951. In April, wc were transferred to Dow Air Force Base, in Bangor, Maine, some {cw miles south of the Arctic Circle. Here, since then, in fog, rain,' wind, and snow. .. . I have a wife, two chil­dren, an automobile ('51 Chev\-y convertible, because I thought our unit was going to West Palm Beach, Florida), and considerably more creature comforts than Thoreau would have col­lected to live in New England." 
Kelly inquires for Dick Ames* address; anyone knowing same, please forward to him or to your, scribe. 
Tom Kelly, if you're reading this column, suggest you slip on the dark glasses as the finger of shame is about to be pointed in your direction. It's like this: your buddy, Ruil O'Connelly informed me of how you promised each other one of you would write a letter to the ALUMNUS. Paul's reached this desk first —but yours is still welcome! Understand you're living in Pittsburgh with that lovely wife of yours, Juanita, Tom. How's about a little more info on yourself and other '44ers you've heard from for the next issue. 
Coming back to Paul O'ConnelPs letter, wc learn that he completed work for his Ph.D. in biochemistry* at Rochester in Januar>', 1949. was married to Marge Wenning of Euclid, Ohio the next month (her brother. Jack Wcniiiiiff, '52, was best man and Tom Hcaly, *50, an usher), and then began a post-doctoral fellowship in the Department of Chemistry of the Univ. of Pittsburgh. Paul has two sons, Mark and Peter, and as of last September their daddy has been a member of the reasearch staff of the Upjohn Company. The former K. of C­vaudevillc star ^vritcs: 
"Being closer to Notre Dame than any time since October, 1943, has given me an opportunity to visit there as I ^v-ould like. I saw the Southern Methodist game in the fall (let us pass over this in silence). I never seem to have the good fortune to meet any of our class­mates at the games, but I did have a good chance to visit wtih friends in Chemistry Hall and my special friend, Father Thomas Irving.... Besides Tom Kelly, Joe Christen of our class was working for Gulf Oil in Pittsburgh. 
"Tom works in the research labs ^of Pittsburgh Consolidated Coal, one of the more progressive organizations in a field that needs it. I know bis work has made a good record for Notre Dame chemists, and also, as it should be, with his pastor. Tom is the parish organist." 
And here's a flock of news on chem majors of our class that Paul has rounded up for us: Charles Raley received an ^I.S. at school and a Ph.D. from his home state University of Delaware. Last heard from Charley was with the South­western Research Institute in San Antonio. . . . Mandell Ziegler, Ph.D., Michigan State, is with DuPont. . . . Bob "the Voice" Byrnes is an­other Merck man. . . . Joe Walsh also com­pleted his Ph.D. work at ND and went on to a teaching position at Fordham. . . . John Knhn (our senior year president and high-average chemist of the class) eschewed any graduate work and is doing well in the Chicago sales ofHcc of the Dow Chemical Co. 
And still more news on *44er5 furnished by Paul O'Connell: 
"Accounting major John Bright is now selling for a competitor of my employer, a Milwaukee drug firm—Lakeside Laboratories. John has the Connecticut territory and lives in Southington with his w*ife, Lillian, and two boys. 
**My short-time roommate (before his Air Corps call in Feb., 1943) Paul Marietta, was married this past summer and is an agent for Prudential Insurance around Terre Haute. Earl Englert, my personal candidate for the most enthusiastic Notre Dame booster of the class, has a house in his hometown of Louisville. But wlierc Earl may be living at any given moment is anybody's guess. 
"He is plying his chemical engineering trade with the Girdler Corporation and within the past year has been working in Norristown, Pa., Dallas, Los Angeles, Atlanta and Kansas City. Earl married a South Bend girl, Jane Hannan, and they have two boys and a girl, 
"Phil Clarke, who left us in December of 1942 to enter medical school, took his interne­ship at St. Louis and then entered the Naxy. He stayed on the coast for residencies in the Univ. of California hospitals but has just returned to his native Denver, where he is now at St: Joseph's Hospital. Next July he is to be Chief Resident in Medicine at University of Colorado Hospital. It is evident that Phil is a top-notch ph>-sician. And to maintain a top rating, he and his lovely wife, Doris, are the proud par­ents of four children. 
"Phil tells me that Pat Yoklavich recently completed a tour with the Naval Medical Corps and has returned to Salt Lake City for more study in surger>'. He has three daughters. . . . Vic Dcsimon is now a full-fledged member of the legal profession. .. . I always enjoy hearing of others through your «Jtiau. I hope I have properly embarrassed Kdly and will be xtmg his coBtributioB . in print soon. VeAapi wamt others I have lost track ol will abo be wmMrf —Leo Laidie, Dr. UtSmttmer, BM OVu—>•, and others." 
Gents, if you've read about yourself WMLwIwrf in the foregoing column, wish you'd prab a scrap of p^»er and scrflifale out any other info of interest — and e^KdaUy news c^ others m. our class. If your name hasn't been mentioaed, it's not an m-crsight. To repeat, I can't uivent news about "^ you (and pcriiaps subject nsysdf to> a libel suit!) So, i^easc enlighten us with what you're doing, whom you have seen, and what you've heard about our buddws.­
BIRTHS 

To Mr. and Mrs. JoMph P. Riii, a daughter. 
Patricia Eleanor, in Houston, Texas, Jan. 19. To Mr. aad Mrs. TWodorc CyToolc, |r-, a. son, Theodore III. January 10 in High Pbint, 
N. C. ENGAGEMENTS 
William C, O'Coaaor and Phyllis Mary Mc-Cloy of Queens Village, N. Y. 
1945 
AI Lcsmez, Sccretan 61-56 find Since Elndmnt, New York 
LOOKING AHEAD 

Several people have written to aik whether there will be a '43 NROTC reunion this yttr, or whether it is to be held in conjonctioa witb the regular '43 reunion in 1933. I have been checking on this question lately, especially since I am interested in having the NROTC meet at the same time with the rest of the class. Most men will find it impossible to attend two re­unions held during the same year, and silice­most ot the NROTC group belong to the '45 class, it would be swell for all concerned if we could hold both our reunions at the same time 
—although as separate functions, if desired. In this respect I quote from a letter received this week from Rev. Ckailcs M. Cany. CS.C.: "In regard to the NROTC reunion aboat­which yon inquired in your letter of January 8, I believe that anything I might say to you at this time would have to be indefinite. Most of the men who returned for that previous reunioB have now returned to ser\'ice and are scattered* all over the world with little knowledge of what the future holds for them. I imagine that once they are returned to a peace-time existence we-shall begin to hear from J. D. Uliaa and his contemporaries regarding the possibility of an­other reunion. I can then suggest to them that we all meet at the same time as the 1943 class ten-year reunion. Meantime, you have my-every good wish for your success in keepintc the 1943 interest alK-e among Notre Dame men." 
All this is just some food for thought—looking ahead a little—so that when the time comes for a decision, it will be easier to decide what is the best to do. We will soon poll all NROTC men to find how they feel about this, so that wc will then know whether it will be worthwhile-to try for a dual reunion of the mutual groups. 
LETTERS FROM DEPARTMENT 

From Frank J. Cmraa: "The end of '31 found me, as ever, pursuing the M.D. I expect to re­ceive this June. Hardly had I wondered what thn new year held for me. when I found myselT married to the former Miss Doris E. Wolf oT New York City. I find myself with 8 man-pounds of "muscle" and with an appetite that ' eyes the rest of the year witji a gourmet's de­light. Give my regards to all the boys." 
From Wdtoa R. Aben: "In July of 1930 I was called back to active duty with the Marine Corps. I was sent to-Korea where I stayed eleven months. I returned' in September 1931 and married Miss Margaret Minot of Beverly Hilb, California, in October. We now have a small aqiartment in St. Loon, and I am back at my oM job as Advertisiar Manager for a brewing machinery manufacturer. Regards to all." Fraa Wdtoa R. .AbcU: ''Enjoyed your visit in Rome and appreciated your letter afterwards. We were ocdulKd ott December 8, in the College Chapel by the-
Rector^ Bishop O^Connor. Father Mark Mc­Grath, C^.C , *45, was present, as also on the next day at the Church of St. Agnes where my first Mass was celebrated. Vacationed with par­ents during Christmas hoIida>*5. Father James BucUey, CS.C. (also ordained in December) and I served each other the otiier day at one of the churches here in Rome." 
Fram J. D. Unna: 
"I have been back in the Xaw since Novem­ber 12. 1950 on the USS Essex (CU-9). We have been operating with Task Force 77 off Korea since this past summer. Frank Culhane is on the USS Colahan, a DD which is with us now and then. Don Clae>*s now is on the General Morton, a transport, and Bill Pfister and Bill Klem are somewhere ^vith the Sa\-y in the .Atlantic As I understand it, all of us were recently made Lieutenants in the Xa\-al Kcser\'e. 
**At Christmas I heard from Bill Waddington, Dave Champion^ and Bob Erkins. Bob is occu­pied in public relations work with the Hunting­ton, in Pasadena, California. Dave is still with the Champion Rivet Company in Cleveland. Last reports had Bill doing work whb a ifinncapolis ad^Trtising agenc>-, but this could be old news "by no\v. 
"My primary job is ward room Mess Caterer on the Essex. Sow I can appreciate the prob­lems of Mr. Ford and Company in the Dining Hall. .\m qualified now as 000 and put in a spare 8 hours a day on the bridge. This keeps me out of mischief but multiplies my gray hairs. ^Ve hope to turn Stateside one of these da\-s before ue all go Asiatic. Best wishes and good luck to the dass." (Best of luck to you. too. J-D.—from the class, and from me personally. You'll have a letter from me in the next few da>-s, sent to USS Essex (CU-9). FPO San Francisco). 
From James C. Andrew's: 
"I am sen-ing in the USAF on a two-year tour (with 11 months left) as Capt- in the Medical Corps. My home at present is in Charloites\'iIIe, Virginia, where my wife. Dr. Patricia .Andrews is finishing her residency- train­ing in anesthesiology at the University of Vir­ginia Hospital. AVe have a 10-month-old baby boy born 6 March 1951. Say 'Hello' to evcrv­onc for us.'* 
From Jack Kinne%': 
"I ^^•as transferred with the General Electric to Louisx-ille, Ky., from Erie. Pa.. 5o please change my address to 2812 Yorkshire Blvd.. Louis\ille, Kentucky. Have met Larrj- O'Connor and We plan on taking in the XD-U. of Louis­
•ville basketball game this Saturday. Best re­gards (o all the men of '45." 
From Joseph P. Fisher: 
"I was admitted to the Penns>K:ania Bar in 
March 1951. Since then I have been employed 
as Law Clerk to Judge W. Heber Dithrich of 
the Superior Court of Pennsylvania, an .Appellate 
Court. My address at present is 723 George 
Street, CorapoHs, Pa." 
From Jim Clynes: 
*'I w-as \Tr>- happy to reach the finals of tl'c 
Cherry Valley Country* Club golf championship 
this Fall. Would you kindly send me the ad­
dresses of Tom McCoughe>*, Rem Toner, Bud 
Malon«, and Bill Fitdiarris? I have lunch witli 
Hank Slamin and Harry Walters occasionally. 
Both are doing fine. Had announcement of 
Dr- Jc^in DocfcweiIer*s marriage. Please for­
ward his address, if you have same. Regards 
to all." 
Jim, a DOte*s in the mail giving >-ou the address of the men yoa mentioned in >-our letter. I want to congratulate jiiu, too, on being named to the Board ot Governors of the Notre Dame <3ab of NcM- York. Good luck to ^-ou . . . A\. 
From Ed LaRocqtie: 
"I H-as recalled to active duty in the Xa\-y in October 1950. I expect to get out in Oc­tober of 1952, and lu d the nice life of a civilian again. Upon recall I was ordered to an LST, and have been on it ever since. AVe've 
"been in the Far East most of the time with the exception of about four months spent State-s<fe last summer' when I squeezed in a 30-day Jcave. I'm still a bachelor, but will change 
3S 
that status as soon as I get back to the States. 
I hope that everything's fine with you; maybe 
I'll see you at one of the games next Fall." 
(Certainly hope so, Ed. And maybe you woo*t be alone either, but with a nuMMus, from what you say abo^-e. Good ludc!! Ed's address is Lt. jg, USNR, USS LST 802, c o FPO. San Francisco, California) 
From Errue Rauscher: **.\nnouncing the arrival of Ernest W. Rauscher, Jr., '74, on December 27, 1951 at 
12:05 p.m.. weight: 6 lbs., 15 ozs. Mother feel­ing fine; father \-er>' proud. Regards to the class." 
From Ray Kopituk: 
**Enter another of the long lost '45crs. Writing this has been one of the many things I wanted to do. but just never got around to doing it before. You may or may not remember me by now. but I led the V-12 band and when the Marines were still there, alternated at that post with Jim Kress. 
"'Incidentally, whatever became of him? I also had the V-12 swing band that we used at the schoo] and la South Bend. There is one lad from that outfit I am trv'ing to get in touch with and that ts George Finn, He was witli the XROTC at the time. I would appre­ciate your getting his address for me, if you can. 
**Ovcr tlie past several years, many things have happrncd to me—sucli as getting married!! My wife's name is Dotty and we have a 3­year-old son. Ra>-mond, Jr. 
*'I've been associated with Crucible Steel's Eastern Research Laboratories, Xor%v'aIk Razor and Blade Company, and am now metallurgist with Reaction Motors, Inc.—makers of rocket engines such as those \*'hich power the Bell X-1, Douglas SKYROCKET, and the Xaxy's VIKING missic. etc. Tlie work I am now in is extremely fascinating, to say the least. 
'*I haven't seen too much of the class of '45 except those in my old metallurgy class such as George Sippel, Ed Faust, Tubby LaRocque and Jim Butler. Has Tubby gone back into the na\y, or was that another LaRocque I was read­ing about? I guess I've seen Jim Butler the most of the above group because he was trans­ferred to the Kearney, X. J. Researcli Labs of 
U. S. Steel from the Chicago works under their training program. 
"The last I heard from Jim, he had been in a vcr>* serious car accident. However, he is getting along fine now and is back in Chicago. The last I heard from Geoi^e Sippel, he was X-ray man for an aircraft outfit in Indianapolis, while Ed Faust has left the field of metallurgy and is doing actuarial work with an insurance company in Columbus, Ohio. 
"Well. I guess that just about does it for now. .AI. I'll be looking for that George Finn address if you have it." (Ray. first of all I 
want to thank you for your SMTCU and newsy 
letter. Scoondly, I want to welcome you into 
the dass nace you are one of those "lost sons" 
that we've been trying ta find. I Femembcr you 
wdl, fram the SCHOLASTIC stories about 
dances and events at whidi your band played. 
I'n send you those addresses as soon as I find 
out the info. Best regards, AI.) 
From Jim Paris: 
"Remember roe? I used to be your partner 
for %vind-tunnel lab taught by Prof. Brown ^vay 
back in 1943 or 1944. I was in the SsLvy V-12 
unit at that time. I'm writing now to have 
you add my name to your roster of '45, since 
I just wrote to the Alumni Office for a dual 
purpose—to give them my new address (I've just 
moved to California, about two months ago) and 
to request that I be listed as a member of the 
class of '45, since I recognize more names in 
vour column than any other, and save for my 
Xa\-y ser\ice, I would have graduated in 1945. 
"Now for some news about myself and the 
Xotrc Dame men I've seen or been associated 
with since' '43. I left Notre Dame under Navy 
orders in April of 1945 to go to Great Lakes— 
seems I acquired too many demerits. I ultimately 
finished my Nax'al career aboard the battleship 
Alabama in the Pacific as a Seaman, First Class. 
I \v*as discharged in April of 1946 and returned 
to school in September '46, graduating finally 
in June '47 with a B.S. in Aero Engineering. 
"Then went to your part of the country, AI, to take a job as a junior designer with Chance Vought Aircraft in Stratford, Conn. While there I met Jim Kelly, Bill Soong, Art Ley, Ed Mav^iall and Jack Klinger, who were then, I believe, the only Notre Dame men in Chance Vought's engineering department. Of course, Peter Wachs w-as Personnel Manager, but I didn't find Art Ley's address. He left Chance Vought in '48 to come to California, and now that I'm here, I'd like to look him up. I think he gradu­ated around 1945. (Jim, I'll tr>- to get this for you and will send you a letter soon-—^Al.) 
"I returned to South Bend temporarily in May 1948 to be married to the former Miss Gloria Cook. We were married by Father Sorton at Notre Dame. So far God has not blessed our marri^e with children, but we keep pra>-ing. 
**In December 1948 I moved, w-ith Chance Vought, to Dallas, Texas, where I became ac­quainted with Hal Tchan and his wife, Joan. I had attended St. Joseph's Parochial School in South Bend with his wife, so we reminisced about South Bend. I learned also that Dr. Bob Murphy li'as in Dallas—^He too is from. St, Joseph parish in South Bend. I also met Joe Haggar in Dallas—you probably knew him, AI. Other Notre Pamers met in Dallas were Johnny Sierra and Bill Lajoie, plus many other swell fellows of the Notre Dame Club of Dallas. 

Alumni-coacbcs at the Cinciimati NCAA meet: standing, rear, Dick Friend and Paul Patten; seated, second row: Joe Gavin, Hii|^ Devore, Rex Enr^ht, Joe Bach and Adam Walsh; left and r^fat. front row, Frank Leahy and Jimmy Phelan. 

The Noire Dame Alumnus 

"fn February 1950 I le/t Chance Vought to go to Bendix in South Bend as an engineer in the Landing Gear Department. The Chief En­gineer there* Tom Delker, was a graduate in the first class of Aero Engineers at Notre Dame. Joe Eaton and Dan Siegel were other ND men I got acquainted with in South Bend. 
"That brings me practically up to the present. Last Fall I took a \-acation and went East again, visiting the old stomping grounds in Stratford. Conn., driving down to Philadelphia—or rather to Roslyn, just outside of Philly, where I visited my old roomie, John Patane. 
"He*s got quite a real estate business there, and he's doing all right. After the vacation* I returned to Bcndbc. Last November, I moved to California just in time to drown in some "dew" at the Southern California game. During half-time I ran into Jack Zilly, who's living in California too. We dodged raindrops long enough to have quite a talk. He's with the RAMS. 
"Since I\ e finally broken the ice, maybe some of the fcllo»vs >*'jll see some words about me in our column and write me. Fellows like Cliff" Mariu, who's still at McDonnell in St. Louts, I understand—probably Mmost Chief Enstinecr by now. And what happened to guys like Dave Randal] and Jim Monadian? 
"As for me. I'm still vcr>* much in the en­gineering game, currently with a firm of con­sulting engineers with home ofHces in Allcntown, Pa., but I'm on loan to Lockheed in Burbank, which explains my presence to California. I'm 'lold on it, and plan to remain here for a good many years. Until 1955, at least, when I*II be back for the ten-year reunion. I'm sorry I missed that five-year reunion, but the next one will be different! Good luck, Al; be seeing you." (Jim, if you think I forgot you, you are quite wrong. I remember >-our shipping out just before our graduation. You were always there ready to help in the Aero Club, and at the meetings. Glad to hear you're doing good and that you like California. Keep in touch with us, and welcome to the dass of '45. I'll relay >*our address, 418 W. Stocker Street, Glcn­dale 2, California, to the rest of the class. Good luck . . . Al). 
And to the rest of the class, keep those letters coming in. Good luck, best regards, and I'll be seeing you next issue. S'long, Al. 
• To Jim Armstrong, from Harry J. Walters: 
"Thought I'd drop you a line to let you know I have been appointed Assistant District Attorney of Bronx County, New York. The ap­pointment is effective January 30. 
"One of these days I hope to find time to write a full letter to Al Lesmez. It will help him with our class column in your ALUMNUS." 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Joseph Lyons, Jr., and Miss Patricia Ann Russell. BIRTHS 
To Mr. and Mrs. Ernest W. Rauscher, a son, Ernest, Jr., in CHfton, New Jersey, Dec. 27, 1951. 
MARRIAGES Dr. Jerome F. Cordes and Miss Rosa Graciela Marcos, Feb. 2 in St. Louis. 
1946 
Jack Tenge, Jr., Secretary­912 Lovett Blvd. Houston, Texas 
Jack Stewart, from the American Institute of Foreign Trade, Phoenix, Ariz., wTitcs: 
'"Chuck Clauss was down here In Phoenix a few days and we had a few days to recall some of our ND sessions. 
"A month or so ago I heard from Charlie Bartlett. He is coming here to school next semester. 
"I have no financial interest in the place, other than having to pay tuition, etc—^just like everyone else—but it is one of the best outfits in • the country"- The language program is with­out • parallel and the placement service is equally good. 
"Any Notre .Dame graduate who Is contem­plating a career abroad—in either government or business—might do well to invest a year here. The campus has none of the traditional earmarks of a campus, and there is the absence of. restrictions which generally apply in under­graduate schools. Informality is the keynote and seriousness and earnestness are much more In evidence than in college." 
Also from the Southwest, comes this from Rudy Lopez, in Chino, Calif.: 
"Have been on the go so much since I've graduated that I've really never had too much time to sit down and let you know our new address. 
"I'm at the present time working for the Department of Corrections here in California as a Guidance Counselor In the state's new f3Vz million Guidance Center. We classify every con­victed inmate in Southern California, transfer him to one of the four prisons and recommend educational, medical, vocational, etc., treatment for hlin while incarcerated. It's very interesting work, but very different from that of coaching. 
"In case you didn't know, last season I was Athletic Director and head coach at the Chino Institution for Men, California's minimum secur­irv prison, and .tve had a very successful season playing against the small colleges and univer­sity teams close by. 
ENG.AGEMENTS Edward R. Fleming and Miss Margaret Shilts, of South Bend, Ind. 
5 YEAR REUNION 
JUNE 6-7-8 

Sam Adelo, Secrctarr 818 Thomas Street South Bend, Indiana 
Reunion plans are fast shaping into the or­ganized reality that we'll all be enjoying come June 6, 7, and 8. A local planning committee has been set up by the South Bend contingent of the class and we're all hot to go, making our first reunion an affair that will be enjoyed and remembered by all. 
Bill Wishing, Fete Rucano, Bob McBride, Ed Caparo, Paul GodoUei, Jack Alexander, and Jack Freeman are all serving on this planning group. Art May is also helping make the orig­inal arrangements. We all met at Rosie's a few weeks ago and between reminiscing over the class members and downing our beer and steaks, wc came up with what is going to be a slam bang pro::ram for our reunion dates. 
There is a dinner arranged for the evening of June 6 in the new Morris Inn. We have the I9th hole rescr\-ed for our bo>-s. And on Fri­day and Saturday a golf tournament has been planned to clear our heads and loosen our Hmbs from the evening revelry*. Saturday morning our class Mass is scheduled to be offered for all the deceased classmates from *47. ^Ve'U all be holed up in Dillon Hall together for our Re­union quarters. 
That's the nucleus of the affair, but its suc­cess depends on the cooperation of you. We are going to start mailing out more information in March and hope to have a class roster to you then. With thb you can start calling your neighboring classmates so that your area is rep­resented 100 percent. Perhaps car piwls can be arranged or buses chartered to cut down all expenses to the minimum. We'll need some regional chairmen to organize the big cities and areas so drop me a line at my address above with your suggestions and remarks. 
The Reunion can be boosted by regional plugs from members o[ the Class ^vho are active in their local alumni Clubs. 
We have nine such men in the class, whicli your secretary regards as a very ^ood score for • one of the youngest of Alumni classvs. Nine men in office out of 117 Clubs speaks well f->r the interest of our *47 members. 
These men are: Jim Clauss, secretary of the Buffalo Club; Fred Eichom, Attendance Committee, Chatta­nooga; Jim - Simon, vice-president, Houston; Jfohn FitzHenry, - secretary, Michigan City, Ind.; John Robinson, ^ President Ohio Valley; Ho%irard Beil­stdn, treasurer, San Diego; Paul McCabe, sec­retary-treasurcr Southern (NY) Tier; Paul Qualy, 
secretary-treasurer Twin City (Minnesota); and Dave Korty, treasurer Wabash Valley, Indiana. It looks like a good time is in store for us 
all so remember to set those dates aside. Tkmt's 
June 6th, 7th, and 8tfa. Now for a little news oo ""HW oi mil ooncctsr I'll give you some I»d news fint. Capt. Jita 
l.jart, who was wouodrd twice im the VlSk during WorM War n , has been womded afain in Korea after only a month in actioa. WernHart to active duty in Septen^ber, he left for Kovcn in December and was wounded in the left ana and band by shrapnel January 7. He is with the First Muine Division. 
From the American Institute For Foreign Trade: Charles Cooper received a Bachelor of Faraign Trade degree in January at the American bali­tute for Foreign Trade, Thnnderbird Field, Phoenix, Arizona. The course of study at the Institute concentrates techniques of interaatiaaal business administration, foreign languages and characteristics of foreign countries. B|ii i iiliiing in Latin America, Cooper has completed the school's intensn-e program in preparation for a career in American business or governaeat abroad. 
From First tt . Tom Snyder. MC-U5AF, VSAF Hospital, Donaldson Air Force Base, Crecaville, 
S. C.: "Just a note to the Class of '47 to »• Form any old friends of my whereabouts (said whereabouts of course subject to change), now that I am a doctor for .Uncle Sam. I was glad to see a note about Dr. Ed SMrftn of our class. Anyone e\'er hear from Ken Ske , another pre-Med who was in Med school last I heard some few years ago? All of tis were Comparative Anatomy buddies under Dr. Zangrel." 
John Mastrangello has retired from pro baB and is now worlung as a contact manager with a local trucking firm. 
BIRTHS 

To Mr. and Mrs. Fr^ c GioedaBS, a son, An­thony Francis, January 21. Weight 8 lbs, I o*. To Mr. and Mrs. John MastrugcDa, a dai^h­ter, Paida Marie, August 15, in Vandergrift, Fa. 
To Mr. and Mrs. Williaat K. Iihii^. a daughter, Deborah Jean, Dec 31, 19SI (l(h« p.m.) 
To Mr. and Mrs. George Weiss, a daughter, Mary Shawn, 5/8 Irish. 
MARRIAGES George A; Coaway and Elizabeth Bader in Brooklyn. 
CLARinCATION DEPARTMENT (to John Bums] "Thank you for your note of congratulatioM 
on the birth of our daughter. 
"We _ are uriting yon again to correct yow impression about her name. Her name is NOT Mary Sharon but Mary Shawn. The name S-h-a-w-n is a good old Irish one and a happy choice for a girl who is much more (5j8) Irish than the name Weiss would indicate. 
"As we hope our good news win be pdblidied in the ALUMNUS we wanted to be accurate. Thank you very much. Sincerdy, George & Maryita Weiss—and Mary S-lna-w-n." 
Jade Miles, the quick-ijiange artist — ban bachelor to benedict in two easy woids (I DO) —found time before his Fd>. 23 wedding to shoot a few needles, as follows: 
"As I told you I %>rould, I sent 14 poalal cards out ere Jan. 1 plugging the class renaim. So far, three replies and the resnlt is exactly as I had suspected. After Uncle Sam, Notre Dame comes first. 
"If they are representative of a majority of our, lads I am afraid our reuniaa . wiH be smaller than we'd like it. But a colkge re­union is insignificant in the pver-all pictme, and it will be up to the boys -who manage to make the itet-together to pray that the absentees wiD be able to make it 100 percent m 1957. 
"Anyway, here are some new addresses which 
may be of help to you: Lt. (jg) Lawreace Reistcr USS Coolbaa^ (DE 217) US Nanl Base Key Wart. Fla. 
"Larry said, on Jan. 7, Tlie, weather doara here is wonderful.' He has probttbly iliangnl his mind. The Navy's tentatjue plana call for Larry to spend .^nril in Norfolk and iSmr through August in the Mediterranean ,.(werw!) and Near East area. He linll be here lor tke reunion, though, if at all possible. , 
N C Rabat K. Roaenhal Bide 1451. K B lOS NAAS WUtii« Field Mihaa, Florida 

March-April, 1952 
**Rosie writes that he has been in training there since June. After ND he took t\vo years of Chem.E. at Washington U. in St. Louis, then worked two years in the Chemical Engineering field at a small St. Louis plant, the Carboline Co. He also found time to, become engaged to Miss Barbara Bassett—the wedding may be this fall after he gets his wings. So, though he had looked forward to it for five years, no reunion For Rosie. 
Cpl. Robert L. Mulcahy, US 5 1064 361 
HQ and HQ Co., 102 QB Group 
APO 34, CO PM, NcH- York 
**My information about Bob is second-hand, 
gleaned from a Christmas card I got from his 
parents in Merrick, X. Y. He*5 been in Ger­
many since October, though and heMI be sorely 
missed by his '47 brethren. 
"Bob*s roommate and co-scourge of 135 .-Mumni 
Hall, "Moose** Matthet%3, is now Second Lieu­
tenant Elmer M. Matthews, date of rank 19 
Jan '51. He received his bars at Fort Rilcy 
but I have no address for him. 
, ''So there you have it. A gloomy picture so 
far. Vm sure the>- arc in the tlioughLs and 
prayers of ever>* Xotre Dame man. together 
witK all their fellow alumni in service. It's a 
.wonderful feeling to be sure Our Lady's Legion­
naires will always be militant ser\-ants of God. 
Countrv* and Notre Darac." 
1948 
Herman A. Zitt 
126 Faimside Dr. 
Dayton, Ohio 
Robert Rc^M-ing is now piping engineer for the 
F. H. McGraw Co., who are erecting the new .Atomic Energy Commission plant at Keril, Ky.. just 18 miles from Cairo. His address: 634 33rd St., Cairo, III. 
From John Sweeney-: 
Our family now counts a boy and a girl, 
with Mary Christine arriving Januarj-3 in Chi­
cago. Jack. Jr., is almost two. 
"We're still living in Long Island Citv (20-06 
I8th Street) while I finish my Ph.D. at Co­
lumbia." 
Ed Ostroski and Mrs. O. became the No. 1 
parents of I95I in South Bend at 12:29 a.m. 
Jan. 1. Barbara Jo is the name. 
Your secretary was going to put in his 
private plug here for a member of the *48 
class, but Jack Robinson, a cousin from '47 puts 
it so well in a letter to the members of the 
Bellairc, Ohio Club, that we'll use his words: 
"This is the story of Robert Kellej', .-Mlcn­
town. Pa., graduate in Ciwl Engineering, *4S. 
"In mid-December, %\hile sur\'e>'ing coal acre­age in the vicinity of Benwood, W. Va., for his firm, the Bethlehem Collieries, Bob was struck fay the su-inging bucket of a steam shovel. He la>-s helpless, his spine and lower half of iiis body encased in a cast in room 304. Ohio Valley General Hospital, WTieeling, W. Va. 
"In spite of his ph^'sical pain, his greatest cross is loneliness. Both his parents are dead. His nearest relatives, an aunt and uncle, live around Philadelphia. 
**This is not an appeal for money. Bob is being provided for by his firm. Rather, this is an ^ipeal to the finer instincts of all Notre Dame men. in our area, to risit Bob often during his confinement." 
How about some letters and cards to Bob ? 
And if any men of *48-are going near 'Wheel­ing, W. Va., how about a short detour to Wheeling -General for a short - visit? Tradition­ally, Notre Dame men take care of their own. Bob's not only one of our Notre Dame men, he's a classmate. Let's help him. 
BIRTHS 
To Mr. and Mrs. John 5weene\', a daughter. Mary Christine, Jan. 3 in Chicago. To Mr. and Mrs. Edward Ostroski, a daughter. Barbara Jo, Jan. 1, in South Bend. . To Mr. and Mrs. Onille E. Dunn, a son. Thomas Edward, Feb. 1 in •-Da>*ton. 
1949 Jolm P. Walker, 'Secretary 
135 So. LaSaUe Stmt Chicago, HI. 
First, we have' an item in the small world de­partment. One day not so long -ago' T wandered into the conference room of our august agencv* and discovered Ernie Rogers setting up' a presen­

The Class of *38 (South Bend Chapter) lined up for the tcstimonial at Hotel Oliver for Joe Kuharich (center, front), on his appointment as coach of the pro "Cardinals." 
tation for us. Ernie, who is now happily mar­
ried, is with the selling arm of the outdoor 
advertising association here in Chicago. 
And Jack Reed of Cleveland spent some time 
in Chicago. He is a buyer with the Higbee 
Company, a large Cleveland department store. 
Jack has been married about six months and he 
and his wife Sally have a suburban place at 
.\voa Lake. Ohio, right near Cleveland. Jack. 
your correspondent, Tom McNally, Bill L^'man 
and Bob Madden had dinner together in honor 
of the happy occasion. 
Now to the mail; 
William J. (Bill) Gorman writes from Wash­
ington, D. C : 
**I wish to announce the birth of (lur first 
child, a son, Michael Tcnnant, on October 27. 
Wc are still located in Washington, D. C , and 
have been running across quite a few '49ers. 
I would appreciate hearing from some of my 
classmates in other parts of the country, espe­
cially Joe Gettldn, A n Smith and Paul Bailey." 
OK you guys, take out the . paper and pen 
and drop Bill a line at 3808 Davis PI. N.W., 
Washington 7, D. C , Apt. 301. 
Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher Daniel of Tallahassee. 
Fla., wish to announce the arrival of Kei'in 
Michael (class of '72) who was bom October 3. 
I received a nice long letter from one half of 
the Boyer twins, John. Sgt. John J. Beyer is 
working in the classification and assignment sec­
tion of the 11 th Armored Cavalr>' Personnel 
Office. Before the Army got him John was 
with the Indiana State Penal Farm inter\'iewing 
inmate^. John married the former Marguerite 
Conlon who was in nursing at St. Joseph hos­
pital. South Bend. 
Jim Boyer is also in the Army and stationed 
at Camp McCoy, Wisconsin. John Vvould enjoy 
hearing from some of his old buddies; his ad­
dress: Sergt. John J. Boyer, 719 West P*es 
Peak Ave., Colorado Springs, Cf>lo. 
From -. Bob McDa\id at McComb, ^liss.. comes 
this pleasant news. 
"Will you help me tell the world that wc 
have a son? Robert Finley McDarid, III, was 
bom October 31, in McComb. He weighed ten 
pounds and one ounce. My wife is the former 'Mar>*alyce Truman of Omaha and Rosary Col­lege, '50. I am leacJiing and coaching here in AfcComb and enjoying the wonderful weather. Wc drove up to Brookhaven to see Bob O'Don­ncll, -*48, and hb wiicy Alice. John D'Antoni is with' the Gulf Oil Co. and is in Hattiesburg. Miss." 
Edwin Conley was married to Betty Jean 
Mueller December 27 at San Antonio, Texas. 
.' Got a very newsy Christmas card from Bill 
PfalT; say-s Bill: 
-•*,^Iy o\vn." career has been military for the "past year—^infantry basic and leader's course, then a PR - assignment. .My present station is 
[Fort Jackson, S.iC . Ed Probst, "either '49 or '50, -is "also", here. . -Visited New York, my ex­apartmcrit* share'r Loa Bums is doing brilliantly "in public relations. "Ted Joyce is with CARE in Boston. Trackman Jim 'Kfurphy is in Wash­
ington.*' 
Also in the mails comes a nice longic from 
Joe (Pepe) Concannon. Joe, before he joined 
the Air Force, was Sales Manager, of the Con-
cannon Vineyard. Currently Joe holds a second 
lieutenant commission in the Air Force and 
is stationed at the Air Force Indoctrination Base 
at Pleasanton, Calif., only ten mtlcs from his 
home. 
Bob Probst writes that on October 10 he be­
came engaged to Miss Margaret Roman and 
was married December 29 in Ann Arbor. Bob*s 
new address is 855 First St., Apartment 3, Ann -Arbor, ^fichigan. 
I ^ Dojie, formerly of South Bend, is now 
in Kalamazoo, at Ingersoll division of Borg-
Waraer. His address there is 7308 Portage 
Road. 
F. B. Nudle (Metallurg\-) is the recently an­nounced assbtant supervisor of GE's Chemical and Metallurgical Program at its Pittsficid, Mass., plant. 
Bm Bfcen (1st Lt. W. J. Breen, A0.222 1661. 35th Ftr-Bmr Sq, APO 970, San Francisco, Calif.) would like to know what this half of the world is doing. 
"Even though I'm away from the institution." Bill writes, "it is ever so present in my thoughts. It was the best thing I have ever done, attending Notre Dame, and I try to carry on out here with the principles and learning obtained there. 
"I would appreciate if you remembered me in the ALUMNUS, along with my other classmates of '49. I'm assistant operations officer in a fighter-bomber outfit in Korea." 
ENGAGEMENTS 
Hcory B. Froning, Jr., and Miss Constance Luczak, of South Bend, Ind. MARRIAGES Peter Kcman, Jr., and Miss Ann Schaefer. in Detroit. BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. John N. Terrio, Jr., a daughter Jan. 27 in South Bend, Ind. 
1950 
2Bd Lt. Jolm F. Connor, USMCR 
I Co., 2nd Tr. Bn, "A" Barracks Marine Corps Schools 
Qoantico, Va. 
Bin BnumlicJi of Monroe, Mich. (Magna cum Laude, Law) is in Europe, in the Inspector-General section of the 28th Infantry Division. 
Bill is holding down the rank of captain. He enlbted as a private in 1943, became an infantry officer with the American Division in South Pacific service and went into the inactive reser^-e in September, 1946. \Vhen he was re­called to actK-c duty Bill was secretary of the Monroe Count)* (Mich.) Bar Association, and secretary of the Monroe Alumni Club. 
Mrs. B. is in Monroe with daughters Barbara and Marda. Three more military notes—cver>*one's getting into the act: 

Rule Raucb, Jr., is an ensign at Norfolk, on staff duty in the Hq of Admiral L. D. McCortnick, Atlantic Fleet Commander. 
Jim Carberry is a captain, address Unit PO 

1. Box 912, San Antonio. Tex., and Ed Foley is a sergeant at Fort Leonard Wood, Mo. Foley wrote Father Harry Stegman recently: 
"On Nov. 19, 1951 a new fighting Irishman was brought into the world. And heMl be an AU-American . at Notre Dame . in 1972 or his name won't be Foley. • He was baptized, named Edmona William, on the second of November here (in Lebanon, Mo.) He was only a little guy at birth, six pounds, five ounces, but now weighs a husky 13. Good start for a fullback post.'* 
ENGAGEMENTS 

John C. Heyvaert and Miss Ruth Gadamowski, of South Bend, Ind. Peter M. Gross and Miss Patricia Anne Wolfe, of South Bend, Ind. Louis Di Gioi.'annI and Miss Marv Lnis Kehoc, of Pelham, N. Y. 
MARRIAGES William John Wightktn and Miss Joan Waech> ter, in S<outh Bend, Ind. Bernard M. 0*Doherty and Miss Mar\-vonne Rose in South Bend. Ind. John J. Reedy and Miss Joan Walsh in South Bend, lud. BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. John W. Thornton, a son, Jan. 9. To Mr. and Mrs. Edmond I. Foley, a son. in Lebanon, Mo. SYMPATHY To Cttarles Perrin, on the death of his son. To John L. Martin on the death of his mother. 
1951 
Robert J. Klingenbcrgcr 
1832 M St. N.W. 
Washington, D. C. 
First off, I'd like to thank Tom Carroll for 
his contributions in the last issue, and thanks 
to you other fellows for the news. Even with 
your cooperation, the column is much too small. 
So get some information in. 
Bob Mahoney at 8151 So. Morgan St., Chi­
cago, writes that: "Corky Desmond, Bill McDer­
mott. Bob Yabroski, Jack Young and himself 
were guests at the Ray O'Conncr homestead in 
Milwaukee. Ray and Kitty's baby, Mar>- Kathleen 
(6 months), did the entertaining." 
Lt. J. Al BaUe>-, 0M084, 2nd Training Bat­talion, The Basic School, Marine Corps Schools, Quantico, Va., who was in the Marine center with Ben Bias and Tom Klelt, writes that: Jack McKelvey is working for the Prudential Life Insurance Co. in Newark, N. J.; Hugh Touhy, RA 19346253, Co. D, Hqts. Bn. 9829, T.E.C.R., Fort Bclvoir, Va., that explains his present situation; Walt McGovem is now an Ensign in Company A, Na\->* Supply Corps School, Bayonne, N. J.; Tom Brennan is in the Air Force at Chanute Field, III.—his address: AF 19419654, 3347 Student Sqdrn; Jim Boyle is working in Chicago for the Chicago Motor Club. 
Bill Cushman was graduated on Januar>- 25. 1952, from the U. S. Naval Officer Candidate School, Newport, Rhode Island, with the com­mission of Ensign. 
John Gcrlits, 931 W. Carmen Avenue. Chicago. II!., writes that he is studying investment finance at Northwestern and hopes to receive his mas­ter's degree in August of this year. Steve Bolanowski was also studying for his master's at Northwestern. Chuck Luecke. SKSN. 4lli Division, USS LST 880, FPO N.Y., N.Y., is still in the Nav>*. Bob Hoenig has been dividing his activities between accounting work for the Hudson Vanilla Company, Morton Grove, III., and his father's bakery on the west side of Chicago. Joe Ryan is currently in Chicago, and an engineer for the Standard Oil Co. Bill Scboly is at the Merchant Marine Academy. Don Gcorgen is attending law school at North­western. 
Gene Kenny writes that he is coaching and teaching in Shamokin, Pa., and that **I hope 

March-April, 1952 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
THOMAS ARMEL 
Appointment of Thomas N. Armel 

a.s national industrial sales manager of the Glidden Company has been announced by A. D. Duncan, vice-president of the company's paint and varnish division. He will have head­quarters direction of the development of all Glidden's industrial and main­tenance finishes sales throughout the country. 
Before this appointment Mr. Armel. who joined Glidden in 1940, was a member of the sales force of the Nubian industrial division in Chicago. 
to sec a fe'w classmates at the Notre Damc-Na\-y or NYU basketball games." Jim Gillis has been attending F.B.I, school in Washington and expects to be assigned shortly. Nick DeFilippis is now an Ensign and ready to report to the Med. Sea for duty. 
Ens. Jim Donnelly is stationed at Norfolk. 
Leo Supple is in Tokyo and stationed with the Headquarters Command. Bill Markay is with the American Blower Corp., in Washington. D. C. 
2nd Lt. Harry Haimigan is no longer in Davton, Ohio» but rubber stamping in Baltimore. Charles Shewalter was graduated from OfH<;er Candidate School. Ncu'port. R. L. on Jan. 23. 
Walt Turner finished basic training at Camp Breckenridge.. Ky.. on Feb. 9 and planned to head for a camp in the Baltimore, Maryland, area. 
It*.s not that I like to see my name in print (not too much). but quite a few of the gang have been around this cold storage center or have written to me (Tom Carroll) so with your leave again, Robert, I'll pass on a fcw^ words. 
Sitting in Joer's Restaurant (?) the other eve­ning was Jim Kingsley, now a 2nd Lieutenant in the Marines on his way to Camp Lejeune. He is looking great and in terrific shape— especially his elbow. 
George Weber is going to even fewer classes this semester. 
Jolm Hakr has hetm apedaXky interested m . the Death dtviuoa of thit colunui siace joianc the staff of Nortliweiieni Mutual Life Iiwnar r Co., working out of South Bend." Bon n the day he neu bold of a dass rotter. '^ 
Leo Bii— « returuaff froia 6300 miles of tour with the glee cinb reports • scciaff Jm LaiAer, FHe Casady » d Jack Nadcaa aloag the way. 
A miniature retmiou of the class was held after the Notre Dame-Kentucky game' ia Chkago a few weeks a^^. Those indidgittg (ia the rea­iniscing, that is) were Eaaga Bfli Canr, Haafc Maddca. Flul Faocnda, Jan aumtmif, IB Harty, Jack Conisaa, Joe Stasch, ^ Bcakaw, and Jocka Maldma. Carey is now statioaed aboard the USS Columbia at the Bostoa Navy Yard. Madden n moving to Cindnaati anmad the first of March prior to entering the serrice­this simuner. 
Fete GrccB, at Fort Riley, Kansas, hopes.fir go to OCS 'soon. Bob "Hooker'' Tkamfmm, ia the Marines^ » stationed in San Francisco. " ' 
2ad Lt. Fau! F- Koaova, to be married ia Juae,; is attached to 3627th Trng. Sqdn. (MU), Tyadall; Air Base, Florida. . .-^ 
Beiaie Lavias is with Bethlehem - Sted • n^ 'Baltimore. Around that vicinity is . Bill Kcly at the CIC schooL : .-. .­
. Jolw Moore spent a couple of days arooad South Bend and Notre Dame en route fmar: yirginia to Denver, Colorado. . ^ n .-.V 
Jack Powdl awl Dick MacDould also ^^eat a couple of days around this scene'^ of.'tl ^ former glories, in the recent past. Likewise .fol^' Bok Braadely who picked up a diploma during the January graduation. .. 
Professor Dick CaUea of the class of ^'51 and before, is teaching Buuness Law in additioaT Ip his various other duties and deals. ^^ ' 
Behind the Air Medal' with two chisters and the Distinguished Flying - Cross, appeared Mai Dooley, who stopped off in South Bend oo fm way to New York. He just returned- from Korea, after CMnpleting his titty-se^-entn mission aboard a B-26. 
Hal Muagcr, in dose commimicatSm * with his draft board,. was in the Alumni Office ia Febru­ary. He now lives in Detroit where he is working with the AEC and the. Giffles Vallet Engineering Firm. 
From Eas. Jack Cnnaa (SC) USN, U.S.SL Edmonds (DE 406), FPO San Fraadsco.: 
"I have been meaning to write for a loag time and today seems to be as good a day - as any, so here goes. 
**I enjoyed my three months on the Cac^toB. I reported on the 17th of October <^ Kore^ and we went back to the States the middle of November. I only had six weeks in Suaaf California and I must admit I enjoyed it. I stayed there, just long enough to see a West Coast team make its usual showing on New Year's Day. 
"Dave Naughtia, Jack Tracy, and I all went to San Francisco together. Dave flew to Ifoao>. lulu and caught his ship there, just bdore it left for Japan. He will be in the Far East for six months and then go back to San Diego. Jack took a transport over and was to meet his ship in J^Hu. It is leaving Feb. 8 for' a yard period in Mare Island, so he got a good deal^ 
"I fiew all the way to Tokyo, but had a two-day stopover in Hoaolulu. Since arrivi^ in Japan I have been chasing. the Edwards all over, hut- as yet, no luck. I went to Okinawa, and DoW Tm in Formosa, and ia a few OMnre days I should meet up with it. In the meantiiar though I'm enjoying just sitting around ckuag nothing. I should be on the Edwards about. 18 months. Dave and Jack should have nmilar fnirs. 
"Dave's ship is the Samuel N. Moore (Dp 
747) and Jack's is the USS Gregory (DD WZh Both are care of Fleet PO, San Fraadsc*., Calif. 
"I heard from Dim Kodrigaes who's in the Army, He's stationed at Fort Dix, New Jersey. I also heard from Gene Mjliar. He says that Harvard is plenty rough, but he is getiag along okay. 
"While I was in Ja^Mn I saw BoL . . He is fine and seems to thrive cm this Navy 
41 
life Dave Is all for thirty years, but Trac>­doesn*t seem to go for it too well." 
FraiQ Jack Broderidc, Wharton Graduate School, University of Pcnns^-h-ania: 
**Been meaning to u-rite for some time now, but this Wharton Grad School doesnU give you a minute to spare. I hardly had time to get to Pitt for the game and down to Baltimore aod Washington for the "Savy weekend. Also have been over to Dick Giedlin's place in Tren­ton, Neu' Jersey to sec Yale and Princeton play what they call football out here in the East. Wait until these Pennsyh'anians see a real ball club here next fall. Also managed to make it to New York Cit>' for a three day week-end with Dick Marshall. 
"Got a letter from Tom Snyder. He's with the NavCads training to fiy above the blue waters. Fliil Fmiwyan spent a night with us in Philly a couple of months ago. Jack Young and I are going dou-n to Washington about the middle of February and plan to see John Moore. Gerry Kerns was passing through Philly on his way back to New London and gave us a buzz, but unluckily neither Marsh nor I ^v-e^e in. Buddy Powers is still trying to crash the big time in New York, but working on the side for Christian Bros. Wine Co. 
'*Met Doa Grobmeyer in New York. We were supposed to do a few songs, but it never worked out. He really has gone Eastern. He even wears a vest. Met Jack Murray, Ken Thoren, Bob 'Easy* Edmondson at St. Pat*s on Notre Dame Communion Sunday. Jack Young, Marsh and myself are supposed to meet them towards the end of February to see XD play basketfaaU. 
*'KU Whiteside, Iggy Soisson, Tom Mullins, Ibfarsh, myself and usually two or three of our class get together once a month for dinner and then head over to the Alumni meeting. The last meeting was exceptionally interesting. Bill Wbiteside, strongly backed by his loyal follow­ers (us), was swept into power-as a member of the Board of Governors for the Philadelphia Alumni Association. Bill also just got engaged at Chxistmas. 
**DidK Giedlin has had quite a time tr>-ing to decide whether to stay in school or go into Spring training with Detroit. Just last week be decided to risk the draft so he will head South at the end of the semester. 
*'I could tell you guys more of what a swell deft] we have here but I won't. I'm afraid that if I did you'd all hop the next plane for Philly.. So I'll sign off for this time." 

Tnmk Muller, Ensign (SO) USNR at NSCS, Bayonne, New Jersey, was at the Mardi Gras Dance at Notre Dame on Feb. 22. He was in Chicago for Pkt Barrett's wedding and came down for the festivities. I think he also wanted to see Maureen Carroll, his fiancee. Frank reports that Bob Clemency, (SC) USX, is back frota the Med and is in Boston. Dick McCarthy, now in leadership school, goes to OC5 (Army) soon. Jeny Hank, Len Call, Jack Haggerty, and Walt McGovcm are all in school with him at Bayoone. He also says that Ensigns Andy WaUi and Jun Dording are serx-ing together on the USS Vogelgesang and will be in the Med until lata in May. 
Pat Barrett's wedding to Joanne Sheridan wa& really a beautiful affair. It also proved to be a real get-together for many of the old classmates. In the wedding party were Don Sondag, Mike Jacobs, and Tom Myers. There for the festivi­ties were Tom Adlcr, Frank Muller, Pete Cas­ddy. Jack Becker and Bob Huff. 
The only thing to dampen the gaiety was to leva that Jeny Hank's fiancee, Joyce McMahon, was very sick with pneumonia. Here's hoping she recovers shortly. 
Received a letter from Jack Nadeau, 38 Moss-wood Rd., Berkeley, Calif., who is in graduate 
•dbool at the University of Califorina. He ex­pects to receive his master's degree this summer. Ms says that his old room-mate, Vince Rauth, is wocking for General Motors in Detroit and "piling wp a sizeable bank balance in the process." 
Frofn George Schwartz: "Here's a little infor­mation you could probably use in the next issue of tho_ ALUMNUS. Charlie O'Donnell just got out o( Finance school at Ft. Harrison, Ind., and is bong' assigned to * Army Finance Center at 
42 
St. Louis, Mo. Right now I'm spending a 19­day delay en route at home. I went through a communications school at Camp Gordon, Ga., 'and have to. report to Fort Lawton, Wash. I will end up in the Far East, probably Japan or Korea. Roger Nanovic is going to Law Scbool near his home town in Pennsylvania, I believe. Received a Christmas card from him there. Ma>-be G«>rge Foster could tell you more." TTiat's your cue, George. 
MORE SERVICEMEN 
(and service addresses) 
Ens. Joe Eger, USS Vesole (DD878) c/o 
FPO New York. 
Ens. ^Villiam McNaUy, USS Strong (DD758} 
FPO New York. 
2nd Lt. James Hartman, S Co., 5th Tng, Bn., 
Bldg. 2184, MCS, Quantico, Virginia. 
Pvt. Thomas McNaroara, AF 2 634 1766, Fit. 2331, Sqd. 3701, Lackland AFB, San Antonio. Tex. 
MORE CHEM ENGINEERS John Milewski, 77 S. Madison, Spring Valley, 
X. Y., is an assistant Engineer for Reactor Motors, Dover, New Jersey. Recently had as house guests: 
Bill Prindn-ille, Esso Lee Brown, Houdry Process Co. John Carp, Merck Pharmaceutical. 
Ed DiUon, DuPont. Dick Everett, DuPont. Art Zabittski, he didn't say. Concerning other Chem Engineers — John 
O'Brien, at Chrysler Engineering Institute, De­troit: (he's to be married June 7; Charlie Drds, Baltimore—married last May, now with Da\'i5on; Bin Garcia, Mexico City, with Goodrich Rubber: Joe GaUoway, with DuPont; Jim Mcloche and Andy Fairlee are Fellows in Naval Research. Jim was married last summer and Andy has a 
. June 14 date. Fred Brice and Walt Kosydar are Teaching Fellows at the University. Ed Koval, Standard Oil, Whiting, Indiana. AI Miltner, still single. is with DuPont in Cleveland. Please remember in your prayers Bob Walsh, killed last fall in a car accident. 
ENGAGEMENTS Mary Ann Frank and Pvt. John Corcoran. 
MARRIAGES Joanne Sheridan and Pat Barrett, February. 23. in Arlington Heights, 111. Gladys Schlehlein and Dick Herrle, Januar>' 26, in Brooklyn, New York. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Charies Meshot, a son. Thomas, in Santa Barbara, Calif. 

CLASS SECRETARIES 
1911 FRED L . STEERS, 105 S. LaSallc Street, Chicago 3, Illinois 1913 PAUL R . BVRNE, University Li­brary, Notre Dame, Indiana 1914 RON O'NEIL, Argos, Indiana 1915 JAMES E. SANFORD, 1429 W. Far­ragut Ave., Chicago 40, Illinois 
1916 GROVER F . MILLER, 612 Wisconsin Avenue, Racine, Wisconsin 1917 EDWARD J. MCOSKER, 2205 Briar­
wood Road, Cleveland Hgts., 18, Ohio 1918 
GEORGE E. HARBERT, 108 N. Main St., Sycamore, Illinois 
1919 
THEODORE C . RADEUAKER, Peru Foundry Company, Peru, Indiana 
1920 RALPH W. BERGMANN, . 1609 N. Jefferson Avenue, St. Louis 6, 1921 Missouri DAN W. DUFFY, 1101 NBC Bldg., 1922 Cleveland 14, Ohio GERALD A. ASHE, 39 Cambridge 1923 
St., Rochester 7, New York PAUL H . CASTNER, 1305 W. Ar­1924 
lington Ave., St. Paul, Minnesota REV. THOMAS A. KELLY, C.S.C, Cavanaugh Hall, Notre Dame, 
1925 
Indiana JOHN P. HURLEY, 1218 City Park 
1926 Avenue, Toledo, Ohio 1927 JOHN J. RYAN, 2434 Greenleaf Ave., Chicago 45, Illinois 1928 
FRANK MORAN, 633 E. Monroe St., South Bend 6, Indiana 
1929 
LEO R. MCINTYRE, 3004 Turner St., Allentown, Pa. 
1930 
DONALD J. PLUNKETT, Biology Dept., Notre Dame, Indiana 

1931 DEVERE PLUNKETT, Social Science 
Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 

1932 JAMES T. DOYLE, 6457 N. Bell Ave., Chicago 45, Illinois JAMES K . COLLINS, 17 Triangle Avenue, Dayton 9, Ohio 
1933 JOSEPH D . A. MCCABE, 632 Forest Ave., River Forest, Illinois 
1934 EDWARD F. MANSFIELD, 6575 N. Glenwood, Apt. 1, Chicago, Il­linois 
1935 FRANKLYN C. HOCHREITER, 1327 Pentwood Rd., Baltimore 12, Md. 
1936 A. H. MOORMAN, 1708 Industrial Bank Bldg., Detroit 26, Michigan 
1937 FRANK J. REILLY, 7 Hawthorne, Ave., Merrick, N. Y. 
1938 CHARLES M . CALLAHAN, Sports Publicity Dept., Notre Dame, In­diana 
1939 VINCENT DECOURSEY, 1917 Eliza­beth, Kansas City 2, Kansas 
1940 RICHARD BURKE, 146 Paxton Drive, South Bend, Indiana 
1941 JOHN W. PATTERSON, JR., 123 Gleniock Dr., Ruthfred Acres, Bridgeville, Pa. 
1942 WiLUAM E. SCANLAN, 400 E. Ult h 
St., Pulbnan Trust & Savings Bank, Chicago 28 1943 JOHN L. WIGGINS, 11404 Rupley Lane, Dallas 14, Texas 1944 GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR., 515 Fifth Ave., Bradley Beach, N. J. 1945 AL LESMEZ, 61-56 Eighty-second St., Ehnhurst, N. Y. 1946 JACK TENGE, JR., 912 Lovett Blvd., Houston, Texas 1947 SAM ADELO, 818 Thomas St., South Bend, Indiana 1948 HERMAN A. ZITT, 126 Farmside Dr., Dayton, Ohio 1949 JOHN P. WALKER, 135 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, Illinois 
1950 JOHN CONNOR, 1st Co. 2nd Tr. Bn., "A" Barracks, Marine Corp Schools, Quantico, Virginia 

1951 ROBERT J. KUNGENBERGER, 1832 M St. N.W., Washington, D. C. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Daushters of ND Alumni Enrolled at St. Mary's Collese, 1951-52 
Student 
Mary Beth Adler, '54 Marie Balfe, '52 Jeanine Berner, '55 Mary Bickel, '54 Maureen Carroll, '52 Suzanne Centlevre, '55 Suzanne Clements, '54 Frances Clohessy, '55 Mary Beth Croxall, '55 Mary Frances CuUinan, '54 Elise Curry, '52 Mary Jane Donovan, '54 Pauline Donovan, '54 Anne Feldpausch, '54 Marjorie Fiehrer, '53 Eileen Finnegan, '52 Kathleen Flanagan, '54 Muriel Flanagan, '53 Mary Alice Fritch, '54 Noreen Gallagher, '55 Carol Graham, '55 Hazel Hargrove, '54 Patricia Holland, '55 Judy Jones, '54 Jeanne Kelly, '55 Dorothy Kohne, '55 Dorothy Lahey, '54 Barbara Lane, '54 Lois Langford, '54 Colette Leslie, '55 Kathleen Mack, '52 Paula Makielski, '55 Ann Martin, '53 Madonna Mayer, '54 Patricia McKinley, '55 Beveriy Miller, '52 Mary Ann Mulholland, '52 Patricia McNulty, '55 Barbara Norton, '53 Helen Ong, '53 Mary Powers, '55 Judith Schwartz, '53 Ann Schwertley, '52 
Sue Seidentsticker, '53 Rose Mary Shaughnessy, '52 Julie Skelly, '52 Marianne Thode, '55 Sue Whalen, '54 Mimi Wurzer, '53 Jean Zimmerer, '54 
Home 

Joliet, 111. Rye, N. Y. South Bend Munster, Ind. St. Louis, Mo. Fort Wayne, Ind. South Bend VVaveriy, N. Y. Elkhart, Ind. Chicago Hartford, Conn. Chicago Muskegon, Mich. Hastings, Mich. Hamilton, O. South Bend Port Arthur, Tex. Port Arthur, Texas South Bend Shawano, Wis. York, Pa. South Bend Indianapolis Dixon, 111. Grand Rapids Decatur, Ind. South Bend Detroit South Bend Waverly, la. Niles, Mich. Mishawaka Chesterton, Ind. Plainfield, 111. Cassopolis, Mich. South Bend Chicago Indianapolis South Bend Amoy (China) Laurel, Miss. Dunkirk, N. Y. South Bend Columbus, O. Kansas City, Mo. Oil City, Pa. Minneapolis Des Moines Davenport, la. Kokomo 
Father's Name 
and ND Class 
Joseph, '24 
John, '20 
Sebastian, '29 
Charies, '25 
Maurice, '19 
Herman, '25 
Walter, '14 
Frank, '20 
Willard, '34 
Frank, '18 
Thomas. '14 
Thomas, '24 
Frank, '28 
Roman, '25 
Marc, '27 
Bernard, '25 
Christie, '27 
Christie, '27 
Louis, '19 
lohn, '25 
I Robert, '26 
jf. C, '22 
William, '27 Gerald, '22 James, '26 Gerald, '25 
Frank, '25 Bernard, '25 Walter, '30 
Humphrey, '20 
John G., '19 
Dr. P. H., '21 
James, '23 
Edward J., '26 
Paul A., '20 Joseph P., '25 Clem, '20 
Maurice D., '26 
Donald, '36 Benedict, '24 John N., '24 Herbert, '27 
Paul, '22 William, '25 Joseph, '22 Daniel, '14 Edward K., '24 Joseph, '29 Henry, '25 Mark, '21 

CLASS AND CLUB SECRETARIES' NOTES FOR MAY-JUNE ALUMNUS MAY I DEADLINE 
The editors of the ALUMNUS, dependent as always on the active assistance of class and club Secretaries, ask for column notes by May 1. 
Club Secretaries are reminded that the ALUMNUS needs as many pictures of Universal Notre Dame Night observation by local Clubs as the Club Secretaries can send in. A selection of pictures assures that the best ones will be used. 
The Cover Picture 

The ALUMNUS, in presenting the members of the Campus Generation Club, wishes to point out that those portrayed in the cover picture are only a portion of the more thaii 300 sons of Alumni at the University, 
The picture, taken by Uni­versity niotographer M. Bruce Harlan, *49, was made at a rou­tine meeting of the Club. Thank­fully, says Harlan, not all 300 showed up. 
Saint Mary's Alumnae Office explains that seven of the young ladies listed opposite were neces­sarily absent from the picture; they were teaching in South Bend, 
FIRST ROW, left to right: Noraen Gallagkcr, Caxol Graham, Mini Wuncr, Sue Sodenstedkav Hdea Ong, Lois Langford, Marie Balfe, Maiy Beth CraxaU, Marianne Thode; SECOND ROW: Judy Schwarti, Dorothy Kohae, Ritncia HoDaad, Collette LnGe, FauEne Donovan, Mary Bmrcn, Jean Zimmerer, Fanla MaUeUi, Beverly MtHcr; THIRD ROW: Mary Alice Fritch, Patrida Mc­Kinley, Judy Jones, Anne Feldpauich, Sue Whakn, Madonna Mayer, Mary Fran CnlFnan, Sosuine CentUvie, Fatrida HcNuhy; FOURTH ROW: Mary Bickd, Marid Fbnagaa, Jeanne Kelly, Sn­sanne Clements, Jane Doaovan, Jeanine Baaer, Barbara Norton, Mary Beth Adler, Frances Cloha­sy, Julie Skelly, Ann Martin, Marjorie Fiehrer. 
FIRST ROW, left to right: Lawrence J. and Philip J. Gotnaco, sons of (John F. Gotuaco "24), William J. Burke (G. C. Bntke "23), R. Thomas Schaub (R. A. Schanb MS). Ridiard Downaa (F, J, Donovan '28), Edward Ball O^ncent BaD '27), John Snakard (J. W. Snakard '25*, John E. Ronan (James A. Ronan "26). 
SECOND ROW: James Heir (Jesie J. Herr '13), Lawrence Baldinger (Lawrence Baldinger Sr. '31), Arthur E. Peterson (Arthur E. Peterson Sr. '30), John W. Anderson (John W. Anderson Jr. '31), 
J. L. Wdgand, Sgt. At Arms, (Lawrence Wetgand "27), Edward Madigan, Secretary, (E. P. Madigan "20), Jim Graham, Treasurer, (James R. Graham '^^6), JoMph L. Adler Jr., President, (Joseph L. Adler '24), Tom Denpsey, Vice-Flresideat, tlohn 
T. Dcmpiey 'it), Fiud J. Cushing (Paul J. Cuslfng 
•31),
 R>ul Figei (Edward L. Figel 'II), Joe Naih (John R. Nash '29), Jim Ronan (James A. Roaan 

•26),
 John Manlx (Rotert P. Manix '29 deceased). 


THUtD ROW: John Sckeibelhut (Leo C. ScheSiel­hut '07), AUooce F. Gotnaco (John G. Gotaaon -H), David M. Curry (Thomas B. Curry '14), Ed­ward J. Griffin (Thomas J. Griffin "29), Richard 
H. Miller (Ray T. Miller 'II), Edward D. Ahler­iag (Edward L. Ahlering '2S), John F. Fink (Fraa­ds A. Fiak "30), Raymoml T. Duncan (Walter Duncan '12), Edwin L. Ryan Jr. (Edwin L. Ryan Sr. •27), James H. Brcnnan (Joha W. Breaaaa '27), Michael R. Laughta (George C LaugfcEa 
•25), John F. Gelsoa (J- Norbert Gefaon '26), Thomas B. KcOey (William H. Kdley '18), Rockae Morrissey (joscpii S. Morrisscy '28). 
FOURTH ROW: Tinmas A. Hayes Jr. (Thomm 
A. Hayes Sr. '16), Fraads C. Schwab Jr. (Framas 
C. Schwab Sr. '02), Joha E. Fbrta (Armaado J. Porta •25), WilHam J. Loodo (Harold L. Loado 
•24),
 Louis A. Giatlivie (Hermaa G. CeatlKTe •25), John L. Kiley Jr. (Joha L. KUey Sr. -25), Ray 

W.
 Durst Jr. (Ray W. Durst Sr. '26), Fraads H. Phelaa (Fraads W. Fheba '73), Elmer Laydea Jr. (Elmer Laydea "25), Edward O'Arcy (John D'Arcy 

•21),
 Robert K. Garden Jr. (Robert K. Garden 

•25).
 Daaid C Curtis Jr. (Daaiel C. Cwtis '17), Wafrcd J. Riley Jr. (Wilfacd Riley Sr. •21), James 

E.
 Silver Jr. (JaaKS SDver Sr. '26), Rinl H. Sowa (Frank J. Sowa '31). 


ar. fc:d«arcl: J. Tracey Jr. 12^7 Cid Eoaloburg Rd.. State. College, Pa. 
Directory of Clubs ani lleir Presidehtis 
ARIZONA—/'/locni.v-Albcrt J. Picks., '23. 3241 E. Camelback Road. Tacjon—Timothy R. King, '37, 1620 Linden Ave. 
ARKANSAS—For/ 5mi//i—B. DuVal Johnston, '37, 925 Garr'ison. 
CALIFORNIA—toi ^In^r/rj-Robert K. KelUy. '34. 145 S. Spring St., Rm. 712, Los Angeles, Calil. Bakrrsfield—(In process)—B>Ton J. Coleman, '40, 2536 Alder St. 
iVor//irrn—George E. Thomas, '37, 1212 Broad-u^y St., Oakland, CaliL San BiVgo—Winfield S. Day, '36, Rt. I, Box 817, 
* LaMesa. 
COLORADO—Brnier—Robert J. Flynn, '49, 536 
E. First Ave. 

CO.V.NECTICUT—ConnM/iVu/ Valley—John E. 
Lynch, Jr., '35, 180 Woodrou- St., West Hartford. Naugatuck Valley—D. Frank Murnanc, '32, 107 Karmington Ave., Waterbury 
Soutltictstern—^Nicholas A. Lancsc, '37, 1675 Iranistan .Ave., Bridgeport. DELAWARE—Arthur A. Baum, '36. 223 Champlaiii Ave., Bellemoore, Wilmington, Del. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—Paul C. Tully, '39, 3306 Camalier Lane, Chevy Chase, Md. FLOR'.DA—Crealtr Miom;—Jerome P. Holland. '30. 313 N.E. 104th St. 
Fnrt Ijjudfrdalc—^James A. Evert, *48. N. E. 17l!i Ave. Sarlh Florida—}o\m F. Lanahan, '43, P. O. Box 1679, Jacksonville. 

GEORGIA—i4(/<in/o—William E. Beckley, '34, 3249 Wood Valley Rd., N. W., Atlanta. IDAHO—Paul L. Kohout, '25. 1722 Washington St.. Boise. ILLINOIS—Cf/i/ro/ H/inoM—Thomas Wears. "36. 134 North Glenu-ood, Springiield, Illinois 
C/iiVago—Alfred C. Slephan, Jr., '31, 548 Maple 
St., Winnctka, III. EasUrn H/inDij—John Mc>-er, '42, 1314 Franklin, Danville. 
Fox I'oHo^-George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit, 
Elgin. Jnlict-Katikakre—^Arthur Smith, Jr., '48. 12 E. Van Buren St., Joliet, Illinois 
Peoria—^Louis F. Crystal, '36, 1010 Nor^vood .Ave., Peoria 4. Rock River Valley—R. Gerald Jones, '22, 706 
E. Fellows St., Dixon. 

ISDIASA—Calumet Dij/rJr/-William J. ICley. '.33. 4302 Magoun, East Chicago. Indiana. Eastern Indiana—William S. MacDonald, '27, 1018 E. 9lh St., Muncic. 
Fort irojnr—Roy E. Grimmer. Ji.. "45. 4722 S. 
Park Drive. Indianapolis—^I'homas M. Fitzgerald. Jr.. '38, 124 E. 49th St. Michigan Cilj'—Walter A. Timm, '50, 201 Lake Ave. 
St. Joseph Voile)—Robert A. Holmes, '30, 1325 £. Monroe, South Bend, Indiana. Tri-State (Ky., Ind. & /«.)-RajTnond G. Ziliak, '30, 520 Herndon. Drive. E\ans\*ille. Indiana. M^abash Valley—Balfe Wagner, '27. 603 Kossuth 
St., Lafayette, Indiana. 

IOWA—D« i»/oin«—Fred Nesbit. Jr., '43. c/o Fred Nesbit Distributing Co., Ill 5th .Ave., Des Moines. Dubuque—Nicholas J. Sutton, '43, 1700 North .Algona. Tri-Citics (Davenport, Rock Isbnd. Molinc. E. Moline)—Francis T. McGuire, '37, 1323 22nd .\vc.. Rock Island, III. Sioux-Land—EdH*ard Simonich, '39, 1605 Main 
St., Sioux City. KANSAS—fiu/ern—Judge Joseph J. Dawes, '26, 420 Arch St., Leavenworth. KENTUCKY—Pierre V. Angermeier. '31. 2308 Gl.nH<fonr. Lnuisvillr 5. LOUISIANA—ATca' Or/fonj—William S. Smith. Jr.. '46, 625 Hibernia Bank BIdg. 
Northern Louisiana—James R. Nowcry, '29, P. O. Box 1545, Shreveport 94. 
MARYLAND—BoWmorc—John G. Prcndergast, '30, 1044 Mathieson BIdg. 
^rASSACIIUSETTS—BoKon—John C. iiresnahau. *45, 218 Bailey St., La\%Tence. Mass. Pioneer l(alley—John F. Shea, '06, 95 Lexington .Ave., Holyoke, Mass. 
MICHIGAN—Berritn Coun(>^-WiUiam H. Downey, "28, 60 N. St. Joseph Ave., Niles. Blue Water flu/ricl—William L. Wilson, '42, P. O. Box 295, Port Huron. Central—Dr. Edgar J. Hermes, '21, 604 Willow. Lansing. flrarfcorii—Eugene W. Rlieaume, '29, 24127 Rock­ford. De/roit—James N. Mouhall, '39, 233 Kenwood Ct.. Groise Pointe 30, Mich. Grand Rapids and Western .Michigan—George .\. Jackoboice, '31, 327 Front .Ave., N.W., Grand Rapids 4, Mich. Hiawathaland—^Joseph A. Lauerman. *31, 1940 Stephenson St., Marinette, Wis. Iron Range-Robert T. O'Callaghan, '45, 635 McLeon .Ave., Ironwood. /Uonror—Thomas E. Griffin. '33, 205 East 3rd St. Saginaw Valley—Paul A. Brysselbout, '29, 1400 Cornell St., Bay City. 

MINNESOTA—Tttin Ci/i«—Ray .A. Thibodeau, '31, 
Builders Exchange, 338 Hamm BIdg.. St. Paul 2. Duluth-Superior—Vlsxi. E. Cotter, Jr., '41, 114 Laurie St., Duluth. 

MISSOURI—Konioj Ci/)'—(Mo. and Kans.) Thomas 
E. Oakes, Jr., '31, 4508 W. 74th PI., Mission, Kansas. St. Lom'j-John P. Sullivan, '39, 834 Paul Brown Building. St. Louis, Mo. 

MON'TA.N.A-Bernard Grainey, '43, 801 I2th Ave., Helena. -
NEBRASKA—Robert D. Welsh, '26, 959 S. 48th St., Omaha 6. 
NEW JERSEY—Philip' J. Heinle, '35, 499 Ridge-
wood Rd., Maplewood. Cfn/ra/—Michael J. Balog, '34, 316 Watson Ave., Perth Amboy. 
South Jersey—}:ick Murphy. '49, 4617 West End .Ave., Merchantville 8, N. J. 

NEW YORK—Ba#ii;o—Anthony Brick, '36, 65 Christiana St., Tonawanda. N. Y. 
Capital District^AttdrCK M. Pinckncy, '41, 14 Circle Lane; Albany. Central—Edward W. Kenefake. '34. 525 Robineau 
Road. Sitacusc, N. Y. Mid-Hudson Valley—Ueary J. Fischer, '34, 197 
E. Chester St., Kingston. 
.Mohawk Valley—ZAvk-;ad J. Sweeney, '30, 133 .Addington PL, Utica. New York Citj^Hcrbert P. Giorgio. '32. 1691 Putnam Ave., Ridgewiood. Queens. N. Y. 
Northern—^Joseph R. Brandy, '21, St. Lawxence Broadcasting Corp., Ogdensburg, N. Y. Rochester—^Arnold B. Morrison, '35, 581 . Beach Ave., Rochester 12. .Wirn^r/orfj—William G. Leonard, Jr., '49, 116 Jackson .Ave., Apt. D. 
Southern Tier—Edwin Bonham, '09, 329 Hamilton St., Painted Post, N. Y. 
Triple Cities—Dr. J. Worden Kane, '26, 55 River­side Dr., Binghamton. 

OHIO—.4ATon—Edward G. Barch, '29, c/o Social Security Administration. 
Canton—Charles J. Kennedv, '49. 1615 Cherry St., N.E. Cincinnoti-Howard A. Rohan, '41, 2990 Erie Ave. Cle:rland—Ward H. Leahv, '26, 327 Bonniewood 
Dr. Co/umfcut-Joseph E. Ryan. '30. 227 Chesterfield 
Rd.. Columbus 9, Ohio floy/oii—Edward C. Stciner. Jr.. '44. 827 W. Schant7 Ave.. Dajton 9. 
Hamilton—Judge Harry F. Walsh, *31, Municipal Court. Ohio Valley—^John Robinson, *47, 45lh and Guern­
. sey Sts., Bellaire. 5ani/iutj^.Alfred A. Schnurr, Jr., '28, 3413 S. Columbus Avx. Tiffin—Fred J. Wagner. '29, 152 Sycamore St. Toledo—M. Robert Kopf, Jr., '48, 136 W. Dela­ware .Avenue. Youngstown—William G. Lyden, Jr., '50, 4805 Southern Blvd. 
OKLAHO.M.A—OWa/ioma Ci/y—Robert McFariand, 
'42. 4022 N. MacArthur. ra/ia-Patrick H. Malloy, '36, 1910 First Nat'l. Bank BIdg. 
OREGO.N"—Oscar Quoidback, '48, 325 N.W. 18th Ave., Portland. 
PENNSYLVANIA—£aj(frn—Leo R. McIntjTe, '28. 30(M Turner St., Allentown. £rr<—Joseph C. Barber, '36, 70S .Ariel BIdg. Harrisburg—W'm. J. .Moore, '26, 3327 Brisban St. Monongahela Valley—^Adolph V. Capano, '26, 733 McKean Ave., Donora. 
Philadelphia—^Joseph F. Cattie, '41, 6707 Crit­
. tenden St., Philadelphia 19. Pit/jfcur^A-Robert V. Fulton, Jr., '33, 356 S. Negley .Ave. Srranfon—Gerard A. Purcell, '39, 901 Poplar St. ll'i;A«-Borrf—Edward J. Rowan, '35, 34 West North St. IfiHiamiporf-William R. Downs, '08, 1013 Thompson St., Jersey Shore, Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND and S. E. MASS.ACHUSETTS— Russell L. Hunt, '33, 412 Providence St., Woon­socket, R. I. 

TENNESSEE—C/io/tonooea-Thomas B. Owen, '35, 4115 Mayfair Ave. . .Memphis—R. Lauion Kelly, '50, 2064 Union, Memphis. Tcnn. 
TEX.AS—Dallas—James W. Simmons, Jr., '32, 5343 Watcka. y/oBj(oii—Eugene F. Malloy, '36, 3705 .Arnold St. San .-intonio—Edward G. Conroy, '30, 251 Em­poria, .Apt. 3, San Antonio 9. 
UTAH—Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Kearns BIdg., Salt Lake City. 

VIRGINIA—Charles M. Morrison, '38, Pump Hou>e Road, Richmond. 
WASHI.VGTON-5poion<;—.Armonde R. .Albo, '35, 
2510 W. Garland. Western—W. Jerome Kane, '38, 10504 Valmay .Ave., Seattle 77. 

- WEST VIRGI.NTA—.Michael J. O'Connor, '36, 1518 North Drive, So. Charleston 3. 
WISCONSI.N—For River Valley—Robert Bernard, 
.'36, 953 Higgins .Ave., Nccnah, Wis. Green Bay—^John B. Sullixan, '48. 715 N. Jackson. taCrojK—.August M. Grams, '23, 217 S. Front St. .Ulhcaukee—Floyd J. Stdlivan, '40, Box 1515, Milwaukee, Wis. 
South Central—Tbonas H. Flad, '40, 503 S. Pros­pect, Madison, Wis. 

FOREIGN CLUBS Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24, (key man) Dacca, ..East Bengal. Cuba—Christopher C. Fit^erald, '94, (key man) La Metropolitaua (711), Habana. «aaoi"i—Thomas W. Flynn, Jr., '35, 5317 Opihi St., Honolulu, T. H. Manila—^Anthony F. Gonzales, '25, (key man) The Insular Life .Assurance Co., Ltd., Insular 
. Life. BIdg. 
MEXICO—J/fJn'co Ci"()^-TeImo DcLandcro, '37, Eugenio Sue 220. Mexico City. Panama-William J. Sheridan,''38, Box 605, .An­con.. Canal Zone. Puerto Rica—Paul F. McManus, '34, (key man) 
B. & M. Products Co., Box 2695, San Juan. 

SOUTH .AMERICA—P^ru-Andres Malalesia, '23, Tacna. .Peru. S.A. 
rnlNTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS 






