The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
-••".--*,-'•'—» —-tr;.~--^ 
:;S£*iM^y^HB«lMHMMiMtaanriMl^ AJi^B^^Mfl 


7>^^ Notre Dame 
•o 

ALUMNU 
Vol. 25 APRIL, 1947 No. 2 
© 
springtime at Notre Dame: the Grotto at Night 
Photograph by James E. KcIiiinsMin. 'SI 
k>-Si<; 


'><. 

^^fr 


i:iH§ 
^4/iecio^ of Clubs and Their Presidents » » # 
AKHON. O. —Murray Powers, '23, Akron BeoA^on-Journal. 
AHKANSAS —Burt L. Roberts, ex. '16, 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock, (secretary) 
KBBIEN COUNTY (Mich.)—William Dow­ney, '28, 60 N. St. Joseph Ave.. Niles, Mich. 
BENGAL. India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C, '24, Dacca, East Bengal, India (key man) 
BOSTON, Mass. —Hugh F. Blunt. '24, 216­217 Home Banking Bldg., 106 Main St., Brockton 22, Mass. 
BUFFALO, N. Y. —Donald W. Love, 6034 Main St, Williamsville, N. Y. 
CALUMET DISTRICT-Fred J. Salman, Jr., *28, 5752 Erie Ave., Hammond, Ind. (sec­retary) 
CANAL ZONE—Joseph H. Harrington, '39. Box 831, Ancon, Canal Zone, (key man) 
CANTON. O Glen T. Dubs, '35, 224 35th St, N. W. CAPITOL DISTRICT (N.Y.)—John F. Camp­bell, '26, 252 S. Main, Albany 3, N. Y. 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN —Dr. Edgar J. Her­mes, '18, 828 N. Logan St, Lansing. Mich. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY — Michael J. Ba-log, '34, 316 Watson Ave., Perth Amboy, N.J. 
CENTRAL NEW YORK —Mark E. Mooney. '26. 125 Butternut Drive. DeY/itl, N. Y. 
CENTRAL OHIO —John J. Cannon, '30. 555 
E. Broad St.. Columbus, O. CHICAGO, m Thomas S. McCabe, '22, 11 S. LaSalle St CINCESNATL O. —J. Walter Nienaber, '37. 2106 Alpine PL CLEVELAND. O. —Thomas C. Byrne. '37. 
2030 Brown Rd. CONNECTICUT VALLEY (Conn.)—Vincent 
E. Turley. '32. 13 Annowan St., Hartford. Conn. 
CUBA —Christopher C. Fitzgerald. '94. La Metropolitana (711). Habana. Cuba, (key man) 
DALLAS, Texas ,4^ Walter L. Fleming. '40, 4549 Belfdrt Place. DAYTON, O. —John C. Femeding, '40. 125 V/isteria Drive. DELAWARE-Thomas E. Dillon, '37. 61 Landers Lane. Sv^anwyck. New Castle. DENVER, Colo. —Eugene S. Blish. '34. 15C0 Oneida St DES MOINES. la Joseph E. Whalen. '29. Hotel Savery. DETROIT. Mich. —George B. Morris. '39. 10600 Bonita Ave., Detroit 24. DUBUQUE, la. —C. I. Krajewski. '16. 1775 So. Grandville Ave. EASTEHIJ INDIANA—Norbert W. Hoi t, '35, 200 E. Wysor St, Muncie. Ind. EASTERN KANSAS —Daniel F. Foley. '23. 122 Spruce St, Leavenworth. EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA —Leo R. Mc­Intyre,'28, 3004 Turner St, AUentown, Pa. ERE, Pa. —James B. Dvryer, 37, 4006 State Street FLORIDA ^WUliam H. McCormick, '32, c/o Miami Mattress Co., 60 N. W. 13th St., Miami. FORT WAYNE, Ind. —Paul Sagstetter, '25, 203 W. Sherwood Terrace. 
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. —Joseph F. Deeb, '31, 600 Cambridge Blvd., S. E. 
GREEN BAY, Wis.—John D. Clancy, '35, 525 Clay St. 
HAMILTON, O. —Marc A. Fiehrer, '27, 708 Rentschler Bldg. HAHBISBUHG, Pa. —Robert J. Haiber, '35, 72 A Hummel, LeMoyne, Pa. HAWAn —William K. Hanifin, '35, 1635 Clark St, Honolulu. KAWATHALAND (HCch.-Ws.) — Francis R Langrill '30, 1103 Cooney Blvd., Mari­nette, Wis. HOUSTON, Texas — Robert C. Scoggins. '24, 430 Humble Bldg. 
ILLINOIS FOX VALLEY—Dr. PhUip C. Hem­ming, '29, 268 Commonwealth, Elgin, III. 
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind^Patrick J. Fisher, '36, 616 Indiana Trust Bldg. IRON RANGE (Mich;-Wis.)—Theodore A. Nolan, '33; 302 Arch St, Ironwood, Mich. JACKSON, Iffich. —Lyman H. Hill, Jr., '29, 5205 U. S. 127, S. JOUET, m. —Joseph V. Kirincich, '33, SOO Ruby St 
KANSAS CITY (Mo. and Kans.) — Thomas M. Reardon. '39. 1104 W. 76th Terrace. Kansas City, Mo. 
KENTUCKY —Thomas E. BuUeit, '31, 213 Linden Ave., Louisville. 
LIMA, O. —Robert E. Sullivan, '40, 702 Cook Tov/er. LOS ANGELES, Calif. —Paul F. Glass, '40, 8418 Loyola Blvd. 
MANILA —Anthony F. Gonzalez, '25, The Insular Life Assurance Co., Ltd., Insular Life Bldg., Manila, P. L (key man) 
MARYLAND— Lewis L O'Shea," 307 St. Dunstan's Rd., Homeland, Baltimore 12, Md. 
MEMPHIS, Tenn.—Frank W. Rowland, '25, 673 E. Parkway, S. MEXICO — Roberto C. Rosales, '47, Palma Notre 402, Mexico, D. P. (key man) 
MICHIGAN CITY, Ind.—Hugh L. Bums. '39, Department of Athletics, Notre Dame, Ind. 
MILWAUKEE, Wis. —John E. Clauder, '34, 4809 N. Woodbum St IvHNNESOTA-William M. Guimont, '35. 4925 Stevens Ave., Mirmeapolis. 
MOHAWK VALLEY (N. Y.) —Frank Don­cdty, '33, 23 Beverly Place, Utica, N. Y. 
MONONGAHELA VALLEY (Pa.) —Edward J Dean, '28, 11 Linden Ave, Monessen, Pa. 
MONTANA — Edward F. Simonich, '39, 603% Travonia St, Butte. NASHVILLE, Tenn. — W. Kennedy Jones, '30, P. O. Box 773, Nashville 2. 
NEW JERSEY-Frank A. Milbauer, '24, 44 Bronford PL, Newark. NEW ORLEANS, La. —WiUiam B. Dreux, '33, 2715 St Charles Ave. 
NEW YORK, N. Y. —Tiemey.A. O'Rourke, '30. 76-12 Thirty-fifth Ave., Jackson Heights, N.Y. 
NORTHERN CALIFOBNIA—Wm. T. Byrne. '29, 875 34th Ave., San Francisco. NORTHERN LOUISIANA—James R. Now­ery, '29, P. O. Box 1545, Shreveport 94. 
NORTHERN NEW YORK —Ralph M. Card­inal, Jr., '37, 70 Front St., Malone, N. Y. 
OHIO VALLEY —Edmund A. Sargus, '33, 41 Harrison St, Bellaire, O. 
OKLAHOMA —Robert J. Sullivan, '31, 1384 
E. 26th PL. Tulsa. OREGON-Dr. Ralph M. Prag, '27, Selling Bldg., Portland. PEORIA, ni.—Alexander L. Sloan, '27, Alli­ance Life Bdg. PHILADELPHIA, Pa. —Charles A. Conley, 
'35, 100 E. Tumbull Ave., Havertown, Pa. PHOENIX. Aril.—Regis J. Fallon, '24, 2200 
W. Van Buren. 
RHODE ISLAND and S. E. MASSACHU­SETTS— John J. McLaughlin, '34, Men-don Rd., Cumberland Hill, R. L 
ROCHESTER. N. Y.—Joseph M. Geraghty, '28, 50 Quentin Rd. 
HOCK RIVER VALUEY. DL — Vmcent F. Carney, '29, 303 S. Second St, Rochelle. 
SAGINAW VALUEY, Mich. — Thomas F O Van Aarle, '21, c/o Standard Oil Co., Saginaw, Mich. 
SAN ANTONIO, Texas —Leonard M. Hess, Hess, '25, 201 Stanford Dr. 
SANDUSKY. O—John J. MiUott '27, 913 Osborne St 
SCRANTON. Pa. — Louis J. Finske. '19, Gravel Pond No. 2, Clarks Summit, Pa. 
SIOUX CITY. la. —Edward J. Lalley, 3261 Nebraska St., Sioux City 18. (key man) 
SOUTHWESTERN CONNECTICUT — John 
G. MoUoy, '29, 115 Ashley St., Bridge­
port, Conn. SPRINGFIELD. IlL-Charles G. Corcoran, 
•17, 1134 W. Monroe St 
ST. lOSEPH VALLEY (Ind. and Mich.) — Albert L. Doyle, '27, 716 Lincoln Way East. Mishawaka. Ind. 
ST. LOUIS, Mo—Albert J. Ravarino. '35. 5841 Devonshire Ave. 
TIFFIN, O. —Fred J. Wagner, '29, 84% S Washington St «) 
TOLEDO, O. —Robert F. Schramm, '39. 729 Grove PL 
TRI-dTIES (lU. and Iowa) — Francis C. King, '19, Court House, Rock Island, 111. (secretary) 
TRIPLE CITIES (N. Y.) —James H. Hogan, '34, 42 Oak St, Binghamton, N. Y. 
TBI-STATE (K7„ Ind. and lU.)—Raymond 
E. Kersting, '27, R R. No. 6, Evansville, 
Ind. TUCSON. Arit—Ted W. Witz, '29, Box 628. 
UTAH—Pha J. Purcell, '35, 519 Boston Bldg., Salt Lake City. 
WABASH VALLEY. Ind.—WiUiam R. Barr. '26, Box 21, Chahners, Ind. 
WASHINGTON. D. & —George C. How­ard, '38, 7017 Chelton Rd., Bethesda, Md. 
WATEBBUHY, Conn. —Joseph H. Robinson, '31, 96 Bayberry Dr., Bristol. 
WESTERN PpiNSyLVANIA—H. Carl Link, '35, Chamber of Commerce Bldg., Pitts­burgh, Pa.­
WESTEBN WASHINGTON—Charles F. Oav> bom, Jr., '38, 603 Central Bldg., Seattitj,*^ Wash. 
WEST VIHGINIA—J. Maxwell Hill, '41, 927 Central Ave., Charleston. 
YOUNGSTOWN, O —Gabriel E. Moran, '32, 46 W. Indionola Ave. 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This ma^zine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as aeeond class matter Oeto. ber 1, 1939, at th£ Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indi.ina, nnder the act of Ansast 24, 1912. Hember of the American Ahimni Coandl. 
James E. Armstrong, '25. Editon William B. DooIeT. '26. Managing Editor 
VOL 25 APRIL. 1947 NO. 2 
The 1947 Commencement Program 
(The followins is just a basic outline prepared by the 
Commencement Committee, but changes will be largely 
in the field of addition of details and events. JEA) 
FBIDAY. MAY 30 (MEMORIAL DAY) 
Alumni Registration in Special Quarters at Campus Entrance (Alumni will be housed on the campus) Alumni Golf Tournament—^William J. Burke-University Course (All Day) 
9:00 a. m. Annual Memorial Field Mass, for Notre Dame dead of World Wars I and 
II, Memorial Door, Sacred Heart Church Reunion Outing of 25-Year Class, Diamond Lake (All Day) Jeunion Dinners or Meetings of the 5-Year Classes, 1917, 1927, 1932, 1937 and 1942, 
in addition to the 1922 party, are already announced. (See Class Notes or look for Class letters.) 
3:00 p. m. Baseball, Cartier Field, Western Michigan vs. Notre Dame 
7:30 p. m. Band Concert, University Quadrangle • 
SATURDAY. MAY 31 
Registration of Alumni Continues 
Alumni Golf Tournament Continues 
8:30 a. m. Mass for Deceased Alumni, Sacred Heart Church, Rev. Robert H. ^ Sweeney, C.S.C, Celebrant 
9:30 a. m. Senior Class (1947) Last Visit, Sacred Heart Church (Seniors proceed from Church to University Drill Hall) 
10:00 a. m. Class Day Exercises in the University Drill Hall 
12:00 m. President's Luncheon to the 25-Year Class, Dining Hall 
1:00 p. m. Faculty Open House, during which period the deans, department heads to and teachers will be in their offices or laboratories to meet the parents of 
3:00
 p. m. graduates, the alumni, and to permit these and other visitors to visit the college facilities. 

3:00
 p. m. Baseball, Cartier Field, Western Michigan vs Notre Dame 


6:00 p. m. Annual Alumni Banquet, University Dining Hall 
8:00 p. m. University Glee Club Concert, Washington Hall 
SUNDAY. lONE I 
8:30 a. m. Academic Procession to the University Drill Hall 
9:00 a. m. Solemn Pontifical Mass, Drill Hall; Baccalaureate Preacher to be an­nounced. The Flag, presented by the Class of 1947 on Washington's Birthday, will be blessed and raised on the Main Quadrangle immediately after the Mass. 
12:00 m. Monogram Luncheon, University Dining Hall 
j^ 1:30 p. m. to Administration Reception to the Class of 1947, parents, families and friends, in 
2:30 p. m. the Rockne Memorial Lounge 
3:00 p. m. Conferring of Degrees on the Class of 1947, University Drill Hall. The Commencement Speaker to be announced. 
With the return of pre-war Commence­ment planning and timing, and with Memorial Day contributing an extra day to the weekend plans, every indication points to a record-breaking alumni par­ticipation on May 30, 31, and June 1, 1947, 
Reunion Classes are working much farther ahead. All alumni out of school 50 years or more have been invited to attend this Commencement to catch up on the missed reunions of the recent war years. 
The 25-Year Class has a gala weekend already announced, as does the 1917 Class. Classes of 1927, 1932, 1937 and 1942 are polishing o£P the details of the first normal reunion year in a good many years. 
The University's Commencement Com­mittee is already working on plans which will smooth out many of the necessary kinks of the war years. 
The Alumni Office is preparing to give returning alumni a manmnm good time, and at the same time to add some of the substance to the week-end that was be­ginning to attract alumni in the years jnst before the war. 
It is still a little early for the inclu­sion of the personalities who will form the attractive programs of the Com­mencement proper. Your newspaper will carry those announcements in due time. 
In the meantime, set aside the days and plan to be here. You will be amply repaid. Jake Kline has promised a base­ball game with' Western Mielugan' of Kalamazoo, always a bang-up baU dub, on both Friday and Saturday afternoons. 
Frank Leahy, Frank HUes and Char­ley Callahan have promised to have a real Monogram Club session on Sunday for President Joe Brandy and his cohorts. 
Knowing Harry Hogan, alumni can 
bank on a major and satisfying event in the annual Alumni Banquet, with Father John Cavanaugh giving the usual vital, stimulating, and currently interesting re­port on the State of the University. 
The Faculty Open House on Saturday afternoon will give alumni, as well as parents of seniors, an opportunity to vis­it old haunts and to meet the old and new members of the faculty, to see the improvements in equipment, etc. 
A new event of limited attendance but general interest is the luncheon being given this year by the President to the 25-Year Class. This is not a signal for the 25-Year Classes of the past to mourn, but rather for the 25-Year Classes of the future to anticipate. 
A reception committee of priests and faculty members who know alumni of all the years past will be functioning throughout the weekend. 
2401 Annual 
Universal 
Notre Dame Night 
APRIL 14 
You will want to participate by 
A. Joining with your local Notre Dame Club (ii you live in a club area) in the local observance of the Night Many clubs are having speakers from the campus. If you haven't heord of a local observance, call your club president See list on Page 2. 
B. listening to the national broadcast originating in Denver at the ban­quet sponsored by the Notre Dame Club o! Denver. 
FACILITIES Mutual Broadcasting System through EFCL, Denver 
TIME 11-11:30 EST 10-10:30 CST 9- 9:30 MST 8- 8:30 FST 
SPEAKERS Bev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. 
Thomas E. Braniff President, Braniff International Airways 
Frank Leahy Ask yoiu: local Mutual station to carry the broadcast from Denver! 

NEW GERM-FREE RESEARCH LAB 
r- "'!^ f-j^' T­

i&^S&^SSr; 

Architect's Drawing of the New Loborator7 
BULLETIN! 
PAN-AMERICAN ALDMNI PBOGBAM 
When Harry G. Hogan, '04, was elect­ed president of the Alumni Association, it was on the eve of a two-months busi­ness trip to South America. With the vigor and the organizational experience that has characterized his career as a legal-financial-political leader in Ft. Wayne, Ind., Mr. Hogan promptly seized upon the trip as an occasion for renew­ing the ties with Notre Dame men in the Latin Americas. 
Now he has returned to the United States and is already embarked on a pro­gram of supplementing the Club organi­zation with a network of State Govern­ors who will aid in organizing new Clubs and in maintaining relations with almrnii in non-Club areas, as well as in stimu­lating existing Club programs. 

But in his South American wake, he visited Eio, appointing Arthur Dench­field, '28, as governor of Brazil; Buenos Aires, appointing Charles Litty, '-34, of Montevideo, as governor of Argentina and Uruguay. He spent a week with the Holy Cross priests in Santiago, en­joying visits with Ambassador Claude Bowers, LL.D., '30, and appointing En­rique Eosselot, '20, governor of Chile. On his way'back he stopped at Puerto Rico, where he appointed Paul McManus, '34, governor of that territory. Other Latin-American districts will be covered by appointments. With Frank Shaugh­nessy, '06, already-appointed as govern­or of Canada's alumni, and with the Uni­versity opening a summer school in Mex­ico this summer, it looks as though a vital era of American alumni relations lies ahead, in which the Association can 
Construction of a laboratory for germ-free life research at Notre Dame will start within a few weeks, following re­cent authorization of the project by the CSvilian Production Administration. The building will be at the northwest comer of Juniper and Douglas Roads, about 400 yards directly north of the heating plant. 
Facilities in the projected building will be used primarily for the breeding of germ-free animals in large quantities for use in medical problems and as a basis for research in the Laboratories of Bacteriology, known as Lobund, at No­tre Dame, of which Prof. James A. Rey­niers, is director. 
Among the problems being investi-^ gated with these animals are the cause' of tooth decay, the isolation of new food factors, the cause of certain important diseases such as lymphomatosis and the basic question of how germ-free life dif­fers from normally contaminated living things. In addition to studies with germ-free life, Lobund's research program is also concerned with studies in micrurgy and biological engfineering. 
The new building will be two stories high, will measure 75 feet by 62% feet in area, and will be constructed of brick, glass brick and Indiana limestone. Both interior and exterior will be of modem functional design. The building also will be completely air-conditioned. Clifford Noonan, '24, of Graham, Ander­son, Probst and White, Chicago, is the architect in charge. 
be of g:reat service to Church and State. In keeping with his generous contribui ^ tion of time and effort to his new work, Mr. Hogan will represent the -A.lumni Association at the Universal Notre Dame Night in Denver. 



Thoughts of a New Director and Officer 
By FRANCIS WALLACE. •23 Director and Vice-President of the Alumni Association 
When I was a student I had an ambi­tion to one day come back and sit at the head table. I made that rather quiddy but through no virtue of my own. I happened to be traveling with the Yan­kees when they played an exhibition game in South Bend. As an old student press agent, I brought a few New York sports writers to the campus and walked 
A them around. They were invited to lunch, and, since I happened to be with them, I was, too. I sat next to Father Nieuwland—who wanted to know all about Babe Kuth. 
During the next fifteen or so years I got back to the campus quite often as a sports writer and as an old grad at Com­mencement time. Professionally, I have always been under suspicion of still be­ing a Notre Dame press agent but as an old grad I was no great bargain. I beefed and second-guessed—and there were years when I put those requests for dues in the drawer and forgot about them. 
Then, all of a sudden, I am a director of the Association and a vice-president. I still haven't made the head table; but 
^^I've had a room and bath in the new in­
W'firmary—^and the bath had a light in the shower. Jim Armstrong met me at the train <and delivered me there again. I had my picture taken with Father Cava­naugh. Other unbelievable things have happened which old time Notre Damers 
. wouldn't believe; things which add to creature comfort and soothe the ego; pleasing but unimportant things. 
The things I want to tell you about are the little human changes that occur when you accidentally stumble into a title. Now I am as busy as the next guy: I can probably less afford to take time for honorary jobs than the average fellow because I'm a free lancer, not on any­body's payroll. I've reached the point where I sidestep most such demands. But receiving any sort of call from No­tre Dame was not in this category. You've been honored by your own people, 
•^irhich is like being honored in your 
€kome town. It's the fulfillment of that urge every student probably has had to come back and sit at the head table. 
There were no declinations. The only. 
directors who weren't there had sound reasons. Harry Hogan had, he though^ just gotten out from under all his busi­ness responsibilities; was going to take it easy. He was elected president. He accepted without a struggle. Thaf s the way it was with everybody there. We were from different groups and years. I probably knew as many as anybody, but there were several strangers to me. The old board hung around because we wouldn't let them go. They probably liked it. We really worked for two full days of meetings. We had ideps, enthu­siasm. We came back home with re­sponsibilities. We had a new thing to think about on the pillow at night We 
were official gentlemen of Notre Dame— and working at it. 

-S0 ^2 
Frank Wodlace 

Now this is the point I want to make. Here were a lot of average Notre Dame alumni selected by peculiar accidents. Any of us could have named 50 racn more worthy and capable. We had be­come dynamized by accident Now wouldn't it be a fine thing if all the rest of you could have had that same thing happen—a fine thing for the school and for you as individuals? To recapture something of the fervor and faith you had known as students—^the thing called college spirit? 
Well, that, it seems to me, is the job of the officers of the Association and of 
the AlTunni Office. Now I have nothing in mind that will file yon up to drop everything and rash back to die for dear old Butgers. But I do have some little ideaf^ nnspectaenlar thoughts, wfaidt might ring a bell here and there with you because I think aU Notre Dame men are much alike in their ideas about fundamental things. 
A man feels about his college, some­thing as he feels about his religion. Ins famfly or his country. There is some­thing of Christmas, of Fourth of July, of birthdays about i t We aH know the spirit of those days is something spedaL Why? I think because they sort of pull us out of selfishness, strengthen the loy­alty to things and iieople outside our­selves. We bring things to such days, ^ give things to what th ^ represoit There is nothing new about that ides but if s the simple things that dude us as we grow more complex. And, brother, how complex we grow in these times! 
Now this is not a plug for Art Haley's department Lefs dispose o£ that quidc­ly.' If yon have that kind of doug^ Fm sure the idea has already occurred to . yon. Few of us hav^ for Notre Dame '• people as a group, are somewhere in the middle of the shirt-sleeve-to-shirt-sleeve movement, but still on the way up; AH of us can afford, in Uiese days, to drop' something into Jim Armstrong's tiD. It you've been careless—and I!ve been— take care of it-
What I'm really urging yon to do is to try to dip into the treasury of Notre Dame^ and take out the things you found there as stndente and which are still there for yon, as alumni. The best way to test that out is to get back. If s like getting back to the home folks.for a few days after you've been slagging it oat. with strangers. You come bade to the things of your youth, pick up some of the spirit of youth, go bade a little stronger, a litUe better. 
U you think n n kidding^-try i t Ask the man who's been there. And the longer you've been away the harder, it ^ will hit you. The finest speedi I ever heard at Notre Dame was givea by Sfam Dolan, one of the tou^est Hnemcn iof the pre-Rockne days, who came bade aft­
er 30 years or so and really "let his hair down." And that would seem to prove something a bit pathetic. The people who need it most never get it. I could ask you a few questions, about places and people you remember in the old stu­dent days. But just ask them yourself. 
K you can't get back, do the next best thing: Visit the place by mail and hu­man contact. Try to be a part of it. There are obvious ways of doing that— reading literature, attending club meet­ings. But you're a busy guy. Sure. So are we. But we are triring to find ways to bring it to you. We're not getting one dime for it. Why, then? Because we believe it will be worth the effort, because we believe there are things at Notre Dame to catch your adult heart in the way the same things, in different guise, caught your student heart. We believe you will be a happier man and a stronger man. The stronger the Notre Dame links, the stronger will be the chain. Why do we want a strong chain? Why should we bother? Well, if you can't answer that you might as well turn to Dick Tracy. The simplest way I can describe it is to recall the fine feeling we have when we win a big game. We love it because our team has won. But football is just a symbol of the real No­tre Dame. 
Convey Real Notre Dame Spirit 
Now there's a goal worthy of your effort and mine: To get across to the public at large just what is at Notre Dame—just what accounts for that foot­ball team. I have never been one of those who frown on our football pub­licity. I have always considered it a great boon, something to be thankful for. It is the foot in the door we can use tc show them the real product. I think that is the attitude of the present admin­istration. The public information de­partment under John Hinkel, a former New York Times man, is functioning at its best. 
I think we can bring the University closer to you and make you a more integ­ral part of the University by using the combined functions of the alumni and publicity offices in a more intensive way, I think we can learn something from our left-wing brethren in the matter of propaganda and efficient use of same. For instance: Every Notre Dame man has been asked for the "real inside story" of the Army break in football. Fortu­nately Father Cavanaugh gave our po­sition last January. It was well-handled by the press. The subject will come up again next fall. If there are any new developments we should be given the answers. But this can't always be done through the press. 
This is my idea: Whenever any sub-


LAY RETREAT RESUMED 
Discontinued during the war yeon. the Laymen's Betieat. which for many years attracted thousands of men to the UniTertdty for three-day periods of special spiritual exerdses, will be resumed at Notre Dame this summer, from Aug. 21 to 24, it has been an­nounced by Bev. Michael A. Foran. C.S.CS,., director of retreats. Alumni interested can get further information from Father Foran at Notre Dome. 
ject arises, athletically or otherwise, in which Notre Dame is involved, we should get the official viewpoint, "party line" if you will, from the school. This should be published in the AlUMNUS or sent out in bulletin form to the club presidents for discussion at the meet­ings; but also, and this is more import­ant, for planting in the local newspap­ers. That is nothing more than intelli­gent use of publicity media. And Notre Dame men, as well as that great, and to my mind, much-to-be-appreciated body of friends, (let's call them friends of Notre Dame and drop those 'synthetic' and 'subway versions) will have the ans­wers. 
And this brings up another place where, in my experience, Notre Dame alumni activities could be improved and that is the field of civic leadership. By that I don't mean just taking part in all the local drives or becoming officers of luncheon clubs. Those things are good but I have in mind a more important field. We aU know that two thing^s very dear to Notre Dame are under attack, sometimes subtle but often direct; that this attack is well-planned, long under way and that it uses every medium of iiiea-dissemination from text book to pul­pit to radio. But how many Notre Dame men are qualified to meet these attacks which directly threaten us as citizens m l Catholics? 
Catholicity Is Americanism 
I believe the University is moving to meet this need by training students for this purpose. But what's wrong with the rest of us? Here again I believe the alumni office facilities can serve as a transmission belt between the campus and the clubs in the field. I am not ad­vocating political action but I am advo­cating a vigorous advancement of what I believe to be a true statement, that Catlwlicity is Americanism. I believe Notre Dame has a great opportunity for real leadership in this field. The ma­terial should be prepared by trained and eager men like my old mentor. Father 
The Notre Dcane Alumnus 

Connie Haggerty, and shipped en to ^ ) those of us who want to use it. 
Specifically, this is a subject I think we could well use, and faculty opinion at Notre Dame has been very favorable: A favorite commie technique is to claim the socialist doctrine is really no diflTer­ent than the principles contained in the papal encyclicals. This is a hard one for the average Catholic to answer. It would be easy if we had from the University a brief, clear discussion of the essential differences between Leo and Marx—^in­cluding the emphases on the individual and the state, and the motivations of love and hate. 
These ideas only point the way to what I find has been lying dormant in my mind. Other directors have theirs and ycu have yours. Isn't it obvious _^ how much stronger we would be if we ^ could harness all this idle power? 
The Athletic Situation 

Before closing I'd like to call brief attention to the athletic situation, which is in my special field. It is probably no secret to you that things are happening to our football schedule. I've gone into that and have some ideas about it which will have to wait for another time. It's not too bad, fortunately, and I believe we will come out of it stronger than be­fore. 
Meanwhile here is one specific idea I'm proposing: In the old days when Bock was alive, we had an informal, but very strong, athletic "lodge". Nobody boimced us around. After Rock died the organisation became very loose, almost nil. Nobody was to blame. But now, with Leahy at the top of his professionjl^y and with the need of cooperation so ap­parent, it would seem time to try to do something about it. The easiest way would be for as many Notre Dame men in the coaching field as possible to come back for Commencement this May, get together at a luncheon, and talk things over for the general good of the order. 

PUBLIC RELATIONS OPENING 
A position in the Department of Public Relations at the University is open to a young, personable alumnus. The posi­tion demands primarily descriptive writ­ing ability. The work requires some knowledge and experience in public re­lations, in the details of a promotional progrom, and in the technicalities of the production of a book. The applicant should hare a well-balanced personal­ity, good judgment and neat and at­tractiTe oppearance. Applications. de{l9 scribing your full personal history, should be addressed to the Director of ParsonneL University of Notre Dame, No­ire Dome. Ind. 
Volume 25, No. 2, April, 1947 

Fourth Fund Is Allocated by University 
Success of the 1946 Fund Permits University to Reflect Pirosress 
in Vital Projects Otherwise Jeopardized; Need for Alumni 
Support Continues as High Costs, Low Endowment Peisists 
In the accompanying table, the use of the money from the Fourth Annual Alumni Fund, 1946, is explained by the president of the University, Rev. John 
J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., '23. In the com­plete report of the Fund, appearing as a supplement to this issue of the ALUMN-us, Father Cavanaugh expresses his ap-

O preciation of the material aid the Fund has given to Notre Dame. 
First charge against the Fund is the 1946 expense of the Alumni Association, $35,644.96., This cost has increased as the program of the Alumni Association has increased. It is not properly a cost of fund-raising. Rather it is a complete alumni program, most of which would of necessity be in effect at the same cost, without the Fund. It includes the com­plete mechanical and material expenses of the Alumni. Office; the salaries of the alumni secretary, the executive assistant, and six full time staff members; it in­cludes the postal costs of all mail, includ­ing the Notre Dame ALUMNUS; it in­cludes the travel expenses incident to the Club program (including in 1946 the Club Presidents Council); it includes 

(3)the costs of the operation of the Associ­ation's job-counseling program; it in­cludes the literature and other items of the Annual Fund project;'it includes the Class organization program, which con­tains the Commencement and reunion program; it includes the expenses of edit­ing the ALUMNUS magazine. Consid­ering that the program basically out­lined serves 14,000 alumni and more than 10,000 non-graduate former stu­dents, this cost, increased as it is in re­cent years in amount, is actually a low-cost operation in the field of alumni work. 
Second deductions from the Fund are those gifts which carry a specified use. These are annual in nature, but are spe­cified for a particular purpose within the year, or as cumulative gifts. Such gifts are the E. M. Morris Foundation, the gifts specified in 1946 for the Memorial  fijphapel; a gift of $10,000 for bacterio­' .logica l equipment; a gift of ?1,200 to es­tablish a memorial; $200 to be used by the department of chemistry; $500 for ' visual education in the College of Com­
merce; $500 for the department of in­dustrial engineering; $20,000 for the Medieval Institute; $3,000 for the devel­opment of the study of the Liturgy; $150 for a book fund in the College of Com­merce; and a number of scholarship fund contributions from Clubs or from 
individual alumni who are building such funds. These special purpose gifts in 1946 totalled $75,067. 
The deductions outlined above still left, from the generous 1946 Fund, a balance of $66,000 in unrestricted funds. 

ALLOCATION OF THE 1946 UNRESTRICTED ALUMNI FUND 
Reverend James Bums Memmial Scholarship Funds—(For attracting to the University young men of unusual talents and promise who would not be able otherwise to come to Notre Dame. These are competitive scholarships.) $10,000.00 
2'Ae Most Reverend John F. O'Hara Graduate Fellowships— (Awarded to outstanding graduate students well advanced toward the doctoral degree in the Departments of English History, Philosophy, and Political Science.' The maximum stipend is $1,000.00 for the schoolyear.) 5,000.00 
Library Fund—(This amount is to augment the funds avail­able from student fees and is to be used for books in the new Mediaeval Institute, in various Graduate Depart­ments, and in some Departments of the Undergraduate Schools.) ;- 20,000.00. 
Faculty Ftind—(To aid in the publication of approved re­search by members of the faculty where such publication cannot be obtained in learned journals. In case such pub­lications bring a royalty to the author, it is understood that the University will be reimbursed for any loan before the author personally profits from his work.) 3,000.00 
Faculty Retirement Plan—(Careful study has been made of many possible plans for the retirement of faculty members. The one which seems most desirable will cost the Uni­versity about $90,040.00 annually. This allocation from the Annual Alumni Fund makes it possible for.the Uni­versity in its present circumstances to undertake the burden and to get imderway a much needed plan of faculty retirement.) 20,000.00 
Travel Expense for Faculty Representation at Meetings of Learned Societies, Educational Conferences, and other important academic events 3,500.00 
Special Series of Lectures, 1H7-^S—(For the introduction of the works of the Mediaeval Institute. It is planned to include Etienne Gilson, Dr. Anton C. Pegis, and other outstanding scholars during this year of lectures.) 4,500.00 
$66,000.00 

It is this money which has been dis­tributed according to the attached out­
line. The ALUMNUS •will carry through­
out the year the detailed stories of fel­
lows and scholars enjoying the ben­
efits; of the faculty publications, travel, 
retirement, projects made possible by 
the Fund; the lecturers appearing in the 
Medieval Institute Program, and the de­
velopments in the Libraries of the Uni­
versity. The stories should thrill every 
alumnus whose contribution helped to 
bring them about. The stories can in­
crease as alumni support increases, re­
flecting credit not only upon the Univer­
sity but upon every one of its graduates. 
The Fifth Fund will be officially 

launched when you receive this. If you 
have not already responded, this should 
be a stimulus to prompt participation. 

NOTRE DAME ENROLLMENT 
A total of 4,665 students, the largest 

number ever to attend Notre Dame, are 
enrolled for the spring semester accord­
ing to Eev. Louis J. Thornton, registar. 
The previous high was registered during 
the semester starting last September, 
when a total of 4,541 students were en­
rolled. 
The College of Commerce currently leads in the number of students, .with a total of 1,407. The College of Arts and Letters is second with 1,229, followed by the College of Engineering with 1,039, the College of Science with 512, the Col­lege of Law with 235, and the Graduate School with 243. 
More than two-thirds of the total en­rollment at Notre Dame consists of vet­erans of World War II. The great ma­jority of them were students at Notre Dame during the war years, and left the university to enlist in the armed forces. 
GIFT By HALLICRAFTERS 

A new visual education program uti­lizing motion pictures has been inaugu­rated in the College of Commerce under the direction of Dean James E. Mc­Carthy. 
Original plans for the program, pro­viding for the supplementing of lecture work with movies, were formulated six months ago after William Halligan and Raymond W. Durst, '26, president and vice-president respectively of the Halli­crafters Company, Chicago, provided the College of Commerce with necessary equipment to establish a visual education program. 
Dean McCarthy said the new program still is in the experimental stage but plans call for widespread use of visual aides throughout the college next fall. 
Noted Paintings fire On Display 
Worb of Old Masters in Cam­pus Alt Gallery Until June 15. 

FR. GRANER NEW DACCA BISHOP 
Rev. Lawrence L. Graner, C.S.C, '24, bishop-elect of the diocese of Dacca, In­dia, will be consecrated in Sacred Heart church on the campus on April 23. 
Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, bishop of Buffalo, will be consecrator. Most Rev. John M. Gannon, bishop of Erie, will serve as co-consecrator, with the Most Rev. John Noll, bishop of Ft. Wayne. Rev. Leo Flood, C.S.C, pastor of Sacred Heart Church, New Orleans, will preach the sermon. 
Father Graner 

Bishop-elect Graner, who spent 17 years in mission work in India and was named vicar general of the diocese of Dacca in 1937, will succeed the late Bishop Timothy Crowley, C.S.C 
A native of Franklin, Pa., bishop-elect Graner entered the Holy Cross order in 1915. He was ordained in 1928 at Notre Dame. He sailed for India on Nov. 1, 1928, to serve in the Holy Cross missions in Dacca. After serving as a chaplain in the army air forces in India during 1944, the bishop-elect was called back to the United States in 1945 as a delegate to the general chapter of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Washington, D. C Since that time he has been on the provincial council at Notre Dame. 
A collection of 100 paintings by Titian, Rembrandt, Correggio, Botticini and other old masters owned by the art collector. Dr. Hanns R. Tiechert, of Chi­cago, has been placed on display in the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery of the University. Fifty Russian icons owned by Dr. Teichert also are on exhibit at the grallery. 
The art collection, to be exhibited at Notre Dame until June 15, is described H by Dr. 'Maurice H. Goldblatt, director of the Wightman gallery, as one of the finest of religious paintings in the United States. It is open to the general pub­lic daily from 2 to 5 p. m. 
Among the more famous works in the collection are: "Ecce Homo" by Titian; "Portrait of His Brother" by Rem­brandt; "Madonna" by Correggio; Fran­cesco Botticini's "Madonna and Child"; "Pieta" by Gerard David; "Salome With, the Head of St. John," by Simon Vouet; Luca Giordano's "Descent From the Cross"; "St. Catherine' by Bernardino Luini; "The Annunciation" by Bernardo Daddi; "Pieta" by Sir Anthony Van Dyck, and "Christ on the Cross" by Simone Martini. 
Dr. Goldblatt points out that an im-^ portant discovery in the collection re-' ^ cently has been made. A painting of the "Holy Family^' for many years credited to Andrea del Sarto, has been identified as a masterpiece by Parmigiano. 
Dr. Teichert's collection of Russian icons is classified by Dr. Goldblatt as one of the finest in America. The col­lection covers a period from the 14th to the 20th century and many of the icons were formerly in the collections of Czar Nicholas I and Prince Orloff. 
The Wightman Memorial Art gallery at the University of Notre Dame, estab­lished in 1928 by the generosity of Charles Wightman, Evanston, HI., ailso houses a permanent collection of 365 canvasses by many famous artists in­cluding Van Dyke, Maratti, Ribera, Sargeant, Reynolds, Constable, Murillo, George Peter Alexander Healy, Veron­ese, Guido Reini, Elizabeth Nourse, Tin-'|^) toritto, Joseph Aubert and Dart Walker. Notre Dame's permanent art collection is considered one of the finest university collections in the world. 
Volume 25. No. 2, April, 1947 

V. A. Guidance Center Operating at N. D. 
. Office Serves All Veterans from Northern Indiana; Handles Wide Range of Requests; Edward R. Quinn, '28, Direcfs Testing Division; Ray DeCook, '32, Is Training Officer. 
"I want to take an aptitude test" is a common request heard from applicants for advisement under Public Law 346 at. the Veterans Administration Guid­ance Center located in Room 14 of the Main Building at Notre Dame. While such a request implies only testing, the actual advisement program involves in­terviewing and counseling, and tests are used only as devices to supplement and validate many other sources of informa­tion. 

In addition to the numerous requests for the advisement program which come from the Notre Dame student body, the guidance center handles a vast range of requests including those of disabled vet­erans who are required by the V.A. to undergo an advisement for the selection of an occupational objective and approv­al of a training program; those of vet­erans in training under P-346 who need assistance in the selection of a course, by reason of having made unsatisfactory progress on a previous course; those of veterans, training under the disability act, who want to change courses and are required by the V.A. to have the approv­' al of the Guidance Center before re­ceiving a new letter of entitlement or au­
thorization. 
The Center serves all veterans from the northern end of Indiana on the same 

General view of Veterans Guidance Center at Notro Dome. Shown (front to racv) ore: Mary [ane Buzolich.' Norbert A. Memmer, Haizy E. Og}e»br. O. BL Beaner, and Wilson M. Cross. At filing cabinet Jane DziekaaskL 
basis as it serves those from Notre Dame. Veterans from Tri-State Col­lege, Indiana Technical College, Con­cordia College, Goshen College, Grace Theological Seminary, Winona Lake Photography School, Acme School of Tool & Die Engineering and the various branches of the Indiana University and the Purdue University extension coU^e divisions, as well as veterans from the high schools in this area, are served by this o£Sce. It also approves and helps the veteran in determining his possibil­ity of success in courses in any colleges, trade schools, business collies, on-the­job training, apprenticeship training, or in various combinations of these. Host of the veterans advised at the Center are not those who are currently enrolled at Notre Dame or who anticipate entry here, but rather applicants who are in-interested in types of traininir outside the college. 
Do you think I can be trained as a veterinarian? Where can I get this training? Do you Vhow where I can be trained as a gem cutter? I faUed Engi-
Advisement office of Vets Guidance Section. Bussell Bowers, director, explains neeting. Can I change my course to a chart reading to army vet, J. Manning Brown. Bay DeCook, '32, looks on. Commerce, and where can I be admitted 
Testing Section in Action. Left to right. Students Wendell P. Corcoran (bode to camera). Bobert Smith, Joseph F. Moran, lames C Kleckner ond John Smith are timed by Bichard D. Willemin, '42, and Edward R. Quinn. '28. 
to a school of Commerce? These are typical questions asked at the Center. Extension files on all types of available training opportunities are kept at the Center to aid in the complete advisement of the veteran. One training officer is designated to collaborate with the ad­viser in completing advisements to help to determine the availability of training, the length of training, and to make sure that proper documentation is accom­plished to insure that the veteran will be properly inducted into the program ap­proved. 
In addition to the training ofHcer who acts in the completion of advisements, other training officers are stationed at the Center at various times to help in the processing of various required forms, claims for delayed subsistence, requests for supplemental certificates and in reg­istration. A contact officer also is located at the Center to handle problems of in­surance, appeals on pension decisions, or­iginal disability claims and numerous other problems. However, due to the entirely diflFerent nature of the handling of veterans who appear for vocational and educational advisement, and in the confusion which results from the long lines of veterans who appear on subsist­ence claims, a move is now under way to physically separate the Training and Contact Officers from the present loca­tion. 
The Center has grown considerably in staff and in service since early in 1945 when Bjord Winger (now deceased) made itinerant stops at the University to handle advisements under both acts. On Sept. 5, 1945, Bussell Bowers, the present chief of the Center, was per­manently assigned here as a vocational adviser. The flood of aplicants under P-346 and P-16 has grown to such pro­portions that additional staff have been added to take care of the work and at present an attempt is being made to add the services of school-employed coun­selors (appraisers) to the staff of three vocational advisers, two training officers, one contact officer and two clerk-stenog­raphers. One of the training officers is Ray DeCook, '32, an outstanding basket­ball player in his student days at Notre Dame. 
Testing services, used in conjunction with counseling and advisement under P-16 and P-346, were started in Octo­ber, 1945. These services are leased from the University and are under the super­vision of Edward R. Quinn, '28, assisted by Richard Willemin, '42. Under Mr. Quinn's direction, the psychological test­ing service has developed from one in which only minimum requirements could be met into one of the most complete in the • country. 
In the beginning almost all advise­ments completed were those required of veterans who wanted to train under the disability act. Now approximately two-thirds of all cases are voluntary requests from veterans seeking guidance. Those cases fall into two general classes: (1) Those in which the potential or actual trainee has a rather well formulated plan and is merely seeking validation of his capacities for the pursuit of the con­sidered objective; or (2) those in which the veteran has no idea of what vo­cational or educational election he might make. The lad with a seventh grade education, no sigrnificant work experience The Nofre Daine Alumnus 
and a severe disability incurred in serv-" ice poses a problem when he says: "Why, Mister, all I ever learned how to do was to fight and I can't do that any more." Another problem is presented by the boy who says, "Here I am a senior in Engi­neering and I don't want to be an engi­neer. As a matter of fact, I have no idea just what I really want to do." 
In counseling, the great range of per­sonalities from every conceivable walk of life with every possible type of mental and physical disability must be taken into account. The Center is constantly presented with different problems. One was presented by the boy who said: "You know, I sure wish that I had learned to read and write. My wife just opened a letter from the War Depart­ment to read to me, and it said my sub-^ sistence pay was being reduced to make " payments to a girl they claimed I had married in England." 
In spite of all problems encountered by reason of rapid growth, and a lack of established precedents, the Notre Dame Center feels that it has made progress. Working in close cooperation with Rev. John J. Lane, C.S.C, director of veterans' affairs on the campus, it has solved many problems which seemed insurmountable at the time they were first encountered, but which now are re­garded as routine matters. 


COURSES ON ENCYCLICALS 

A series of lectures on "The Study and Teaching of the Papal Social En­cylicals" was recently given by Dr. Francis J. Brown, professor of economics ( at Notre Dame, on Saturday afternoons at the Bishop Sheil School of Social Studies, Chicago. 
In addition to explaining the social doctrine of the encyclicals Rerum No­varum (On. the Condition of Labor) 
promulgated in 1891 by Pope Leo XIII and Qtiadrogesimo Anno (On Recon­structing the Social Order) promulgated in 1931 by Pope Pius XI, Dr. Brown pre­sented practical methods of teaching the encyclicals to high school and college students. 
A more intensive eight-week course in Catholic social-economic teachings, in­cluding the encyclical Divini Redemp­toris (On Atheistic Communism), will be taught by Dr. Brown in the summer term at Notre Dame, which will be in session from June 19 to August 13. 
Dr. Brown, who holds a Ph. D. in So­ciology and Economics from the Cath^ olio University of America, Washington, 
D. C, joined the Notre Dame faculty in September, 1946, following his release from military service. 
Volume 25, No. 2, April, 1947 

Survival in a Modem World 
By MILTON BURTON* Professor of Chemistry 
Each of the wars of our recent mem­ory has been so much more terrible than the previous one that its cessation has uniformly brought with it the statement that we cannot endure another war; that the world cannot survive its newly ac­quired capacity for destruction. As a result, the recent cry of hitherto silent scientists that something must be done this time, has been greeted with a cer­tain skepticism, not only in Washington and in Moscow, but by people every­where. 
The philosophy of laissez-faire is of simple origin. People are fairly confi­dent about the future. The future in­evitably comes and it always seems a little better than the past. 

The future which we are about to enter is, unfortunately, not related to our past. It is a future so strange, so fi'led with possibilities of destruction and with ter­ror, that those who ordinarily remain in scholarly seclusion feel that they must talk and explain. The ivory tower is no longer a proper habitation for the sci­entist. He must go into the market place and into the forum and speak if only to save for himself his opportuni­ties for study and research. 
For the first time the human race knows the technique of annihilation. A single plane carried atomic destruction to Hiroshima. In an instant of time 60,­000 people died, the victims of a force so great that they never had cognizance 
•Dr. Burton received his B.S. in 1922. M.S. in 1923 and Ph.D. in 1925. all from New York University. In the subsequent years, until 1942, he divided his time between industrial work (ten years) and academic work, the latter at N.Y.U., Cornell and the University of California. 
In 1942, Dr. Burton joined the metallur^cal lab­oratory at the University of Chicago, where he directed the work on radiation chemistry for the Atomic Energy Project, and he later went to the Clinton Laboratories of the Monsanto Chemical Co.. Oak Ridge, Tenn. He is still connected with the Atomic Energy Project as a consultant and is one of the editors of the Plutonhim Project Record, He was an official government observer at the Bikini b<mib tests. 
r Ihe ALUHNUS, in the belief that alumni every­where would welcome the views of .a Notre Dame professor (since 1946) who, with regard to the fateful Atomic Energy project, combines schol­arship, wide experience and inner knowledge, asked Dr. Burton to write this article.—^Editors. 
of its existence. Nobody knows the story of the final death toll of Hiroshima, but the estimates range up to 100,000. We know only that a thriving city in which 300,000 people lived was made into a hell by a single one of the relatively primitive instruments of the first days of the atomic age. Since then we have seen Nagasaki and the surrender of Japan. We have seen Bikini and the beginning of a fairy-tale naval era in which fleets 
Dr. Milton Buztoa 

alone are to be designed for survival in a world unadapted to the atomic bomb. We have seen only the beginning of the Atomic Age. There are rumors and ru­mors of rumors. We hear that atomic bombs have already been developed— presumably on paper—^which make the bombs that destroyed two cities picajrune by comparison. We are promised bombs each of which could obliterate life with­in 300 square miles. One bomb of such a type would be enough to destroy a city like Chicago. 
Wherein lies our protection against the destructiveness of atomic war? Is it in some secrets? The scientists thought that they had sold the notion that there is no protection in secrecy. Actually, the only important secret we kept during the war was the progress we were making on the atomic bomb. The secret we kept was the number of people 
involved. The secret we kept was our 
anticipation of success. 
The success at Hiroshima revealed ~ everything of importance to other na­tions. Atomic energy and the atomic bomb had become realities. There no longer was any reason in principle why someone else should not be able to dupli­cate our results. There is a question, perhaps, of technological skill, of detail­ed knowledge, of industrial resources, which may restrict such Atomic Age ad­vances in other nations, but there is no prevention of such advances. They will inevitably come. When is indeterminate. There are many estimates. 
Canada, which was in on the secret, has' its first Atomic Energy Plant at Chalk River working. Great Britain, which was in on the secret, is building a large plant at HarwelL It should be in operation ready to produce its quota of material for bombs no later than 1949. Are we to judge that Rus­sia with its resources will be less anxious to make progress in this important field? Are we to depend upon a lack of knowl­edge in Russia? Such dependence is self-deception. The scientists who con­tributed to the atomic energy project in the United States came from Italy, Ger­many, Hungary, France and Russia, as well as from within our own borders. We have no monopoly on genius but i#e do have some advantage of industrial experience. This advantage we have al-' ready had. We were finished before the rest and there lies our only advantage. Other nations will follow. 
It is an error to think that the scien­tists in this country deliberately revealed anything which will bring closer the day of danger when all the world can use the atomic bomb. Hiroshima ajone brought that day closer; for Hiroshima indicated that the bomb . existed. The scientists maintained that secret as long as they could. 
Maintenance of secrecy now on puidy scientific matters is futile and even dan­gerous. This country possesses the adr vantage of {wssession of the laigest group of active scientists in the world. Among them are some of the world's outstanding scientists. If all the scien­tists in this country have free access to 
The Notre Dome Alumnus 

those secrets of nature discovered dur­ing the war, then scientific progress can be made by them much more rapidly than if they are kept in ignorance. The very number of scientists we have in this country offers assurance that free­dom of publication means that we will pull away from scientific endeavor in other nations. Our most dangerous course is the course of secrecy that gives other nations with fewer scientists an opportunity to pull up to where we were in 1945. Freedom of scientific publica­tion insures that we can continue to pull ahead. 
Neither secrecy nor freedom of publi­cation, however, can save us from the weapons of destruction we have already created. The atomic bomb can destroy a city in an instant. One hundred could destroy the entire industrial resources of the United States in an instant or in a day, depending upon how rapidly they could be delivered by some enemy. The bomb at Hiroshima was delivered by a B-29. The next bomb, if there shall be any, will be delivered by a rocket. A perfectly normal interest in rocket de­velopment in this country and every country in the world merely insures that atomic destruction can be carried more easily to the industrial centers of the world. 
b a Protective War the Answei? 

Is our defense going to be a protective war? Shall we at this moment loose atomic bombs on all potential enemies and thus conquer and enjoy the fruits of peace in a happy land surrounded by desolation? It runs against our grain to do so vile a deed but it also runs against common sense to attempt it. The land areas are too great. Can we con­quer right now with the atomic bomb alone? There are many who doubt. However, let us put them aside, saying that they do not understand. Let us say that we could conquer. Then what? 
Are we to assume that when we start the atomic bomb war there will be no retaliation at any time? The answer is "No." At this very moment we know that biolog^ioal warfare has already been developed and can be used. We saw the meagerest use of it during the last war in such things as destruction of crops. Soldiers require food. Eemnants of en­emy military, surviving in isolated se­curity have been starved out of their po­sitions by destruction merely of the veg­etation around them. However, such a tactic is only an elementary form of bio­logical warfare. We have been informed of toxins and bacteria and poisons which can destroy insects and animals and hu­
mans and vegetation alike. Some would act instantly for a quick, but not total­ly destructive knock-out. Others would act more slowly during the period of temporary paralysis to achieve the more complete and more elaborate eventual destruction. 
A Compromise Is Necessarr 

The atomic bomb is concerned solely with destruction; death of animals, of humans and of plants is incidental. Bio­logical war, on the other hand, is con­cerned exclusively with death. Destruc­tion is the incidental result of deteriora­tion uninhibited by the defenses set up by humans. Should we start an atomic war, we may predict that within the same instant our victim would reply with biological war. We would probably win our war after a period, or at least we could expect that our enemy would cap­itulate. Having conquered, we would cease to make war, but war would con­tinue, nevertheless. Atomic war can be stopped at the will of the victor, but bio­logical war proceeds unrestrained to its death. Should we win the war of which we are capable today, there might not be enough survivors left after a year to en­joy the fruits of victory. 
It is not true that we are crying the old cry that we cannot endure another war. The fact is that we cannot endure our new capacity for destruction. ' It will' no longer be war in the old sense; it will be self-extermination if we continue on our old course. 
The conclusion is that the nations must get together in self-protection to avoid the consequences of our newly ac­quired knowledge. 
This conclusion which seems so ob­vious to American scientists and some other scientists of the world is merdy our conclusion. We do not have unanim­ous agreement on that score. We can enter the halls of our own Congress and see members still unconvinced. We can still enter some editorial sanctums which feel we have a military advantage. We hear a reiteration amongst some of a na­tional policy that we must be stronger in a military sense than other nations. We still see a skepticism among the Bus­sian diplomats quite' equal to that of some of our own people. They are not so certain that this cry for world unity is not synthetic. The Bussians have re­peatedly expressed a feeling, that the dangers of the present situation have been exaggerated. 
Thus, we see that the peoples of the world do not yet even get together on the fundamental premise that it is time . Woild GoTemment to Maintain Peoce 
to do something. We are still in the  "  
process of educating ourselves and our  
neighbors to the thought that the situa­ 
tion is very dangerous and that a world  
in which there cannot be any war, a  
world in which the power of self-destruc­ 
tion is eliminated, is the only one which  
can endure. Among our own people  
there has been considerable education.  
We now have a civilian, non-partisan  
Atomic Energy Commission created by  
the majority of a knowing Congress.  
Slowly we see a conversion among other  
nations to the idea that atomic energy  
is for the people, not for the military  
against the people.  
We require sincerity of approach. We  
require that all the peoples who sit down  
to the conference table feel that this is  
a time of danger requiring joint action  A  
on an even larger scale than we saw  
in the war. We require a feeling that  
compromise is necessary to world sur­ 
vival and that any compromise which is  
fundamentally moral is satisfactory. We  
must learn how to get along in the world  
system and how to create a world sys­ 
tem in which we can get along.  

Eepeatedly the question is raised: Will we accept Communism or will the Bus­sians accept Democracy? In this ques­tion we and they define Communism and Democracy in terms of our own prejud­ices and of our own history. Perhaps it would be wise to avoid insistence on such terms. Is it possible to have a world government in which different na­tions may have the pleasure (or endure ^ the discomforts) of their own ideologies? In our own nation we see many facets of the democratic principle. Those forms survive side by side because it is felt that something worthwhile can be saved by a federal system of govenmient. 
World government should exist only to maintain peace and to control those rela­tions between nations which may have an effect on peace. At the moment, it does not seem necessary for world gov­ernment to concern itself with national political systems although we might hope that our own system may prove suffici­ently attractive in a peaceful world to enjoy the emulation of other peoples. We must concern ourselves primarily with a system of world unity which will in­sure freedom from war during the pe­riod when world organization is being strengthened. Such a system can come now only from the United Nations. We ^ most do all in our power to insure world government. We must think about it. We must try to solve its problems. We 
(Continued on page 39) 

Laetare Medal to William G. Bruce 
The University awarded its Laetare Medal for 1947 to William George Bruce, publisher and civic leader of Milwaukee, Wis. The announcement was made on Laetare Sunday, March 16, by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president. 
Mr. Bruce, who is 91 years old, is the 

A sixty-fifth recipient of the Laetare Medal that Notre Dame has bestowed annually on an outstanding American Catholic since 1883. The Laetare Medal is the American counterpart of the Vatican's historic Order of the Golden Kose. 
Father Cavanaugh, in announcing the award to Mr. Bruce, said that in honor­ing Mr. Bruce, the University of Notre Dame "honors one who through the pub­lication of significant educational works has contributed much to American life." 
"For more than fifty years Mr. Bruce has given his best talents to this work," Father Cavanaugh added. "He has con­stantly championed the cause of educa­tion through his publications. At the same time, books and magazines publish­ed by the company he founded reflect his own high moral standards. Mr. 

^ Bruce, therefore, has made signal contri­butions to the intellectual life of the United States and through these contri­butions to the moral stability of the na­tion." 
Son of a ship's carpenter, Mr. Bruce was born at Milwaukee on March 17, 1856. He was educated in the public schools and by private instruction. In 1877 he joined the staff of the Milwau­kee Daily News, and in 1881 became as­sistant business manager of the Mihvati­kee Sentinel, a position he held for eleven years. Meanwhile, his interest in education had been aroused by his ap­pointment to the Milwaukee School Board. 
Mr. Bruce entered the publishing field in 1891 by founding the American School Board Journal on a total capital of $600. In 1914 he founded the Industrial Arts Magazine, a professional magazine deal-

A. ing with industrial arts and vocational education. He founded Hospital Prog­ress, oflScial journal of the Catholic Hos­pital Association, in 1919, and ten years later his firm acquired The Catholic 
Milwaukee Publisher and Civic Leader is 65th 
Recipient of Award; Fifty Men and Fointeen 
Women Have Already Received the Medal. 
School Journal. Each of these publica­
tions has been successful. 
Mr. Bruce's company started to print books in 1920, and since then has pub­lished nearly 800 titles, including text­books, novels, religious biographies and other types. Since 1929 the Bruce Com­pany has specialized in Catholic books and now is regarded as one of the lead­ing Catholic publishing houses. 
mUiom G. Brae* 

For many years interested in civic affairs, Mr. Bruce has been active in various organizations for civic and state improvement. Among organizations he "was president of at various times are the Milwaukee Harbor Commission, the Wisconsin Waterways Commission, and the Milwaukee Auditorium. He also is a former president of the American State Bank, and is honorary president of the Great Lakes Harbor Association. 
In recognition of his contributions to education and charity, Mr. Bruce in 1920 was created a Knight of St. Gregory the Great by His Holiness, Pope Bene­dict XV. Mr. Bruce is the author of several technical books on. architecture, school administration and civic history and a number of studies on taxation, im-. migration, citizenship and other subjects.­

He was married on May 4, 1881, to Miss Monica Moehring of Milwaukee^ Three children were bom to them: Wil­liam C, Frank M., and Monica Bruce, now Mrs. Zeno Rock. 
The Laetare Medal has been awarded to 51 men and 14 women. They are: 
1883. John Gilmaiy Shea, historian; 1884, Fat-rick Charies Keeley, architect; 1885, Eliza AOen Starr, art critic: 1886, General John Newton, en­gineer; 1887, Edward Preuss, pahlidst; 1888, PM-rick V. Hiekey, fonnder and editor of the Catholic Review; 1889, Anna Hansen Doraejr, novdist: 1890, William J. Onahan, oncanizer of the Ameri­can Catholic Consress; I89I, Daniel Doogjiertr, orator; 1892, Henry F. Brownson, philosopher and author; 1893, Patrick Donohae, fonnder of the Boston PHot; 1894, Angnstine Daly, dramatic producer; 1895; Hary A. Sadlier, novelist; 1896, General WiDiom Starke Roseerans, soldier; 1897, -. Ihmnaa Addis Emmett, physician; 1898, Timothy Edward Howard, inrist; 1899, Hary Gwendolin Caldwdl, philantropist; 1900, John A. Crd^tan, philanthropist; 1901, William Bourke Cockran, ora­tor ; 1902 John Benjamin Horphy, sorgeon; 1903, Charles Jerome Bonaparte, lawyer. 
1904. Richard C. Kerens, diplomat: 1905, Thom­as B. Fitzpatridc, philanthropist; 1906, Kands 
J. Qolnlan, physician; 1907, Kaiherine Eleanor Conway, joomalist and author; 1908, James C. Uonashan, economist; 1909, Franc^ Tieriian (Christian Reid), novdist; 1919, Kaurioe Fran­cis Egan, author and diplomat; 1911, Agues Rep-' plier, author; 1912, Thomas W. Mulry, philan­thtopist; 1913, Charles B. Herhermon, editor-in­chief of the Catholic Ehcydopedia; 1914, Edward Douglas White, jurist and chief justice of the United States Supreme Court; I9I5, Mary V. Merrick, philanthropist; 1916, James Joseph Walsh, physician and author; 1917, William Shep­herd Benson, admiral and chief of naval opera­tions; I9I8, Joseph Scott, lawyer; 1919, George 
li. Duval, philanthropist; 1920, lAwrence Francis Flick, physician; 1921, Elizabeth Nourse, artist; 1322. Charies Patrick Neill, economist. 
1923. Walter George Smith, lawyer; 1924, Charles 

D. Maginnis, architect; 1925, Albert Francis Zahm, scientist: 1926, Edward Nash Hurley,- hioincss man; 1927, Margaret Anglin, actress: 1928, John Johnson Spaulding, lawyer; 1929, Alfred Kmannd Smith, statesman: 1930, Frederick Philip Kenkel, publicist; 1931, James J. Phdan, business noa; 1932, Stephan J. Maher, physician: 1933, John McCormaek, artist; 1934, Genevieve Garvan Brady, philanthnvist; 1935. Fkands Hamilton Spearman, novdist; 1936, Richard Reid, lawyer and jour­nalist: 1937, Jeremiah Denis M. Ford, scholar; 1938, Irvin William Abdl. surgeon; 1939. Jo­sephine Van Dyke Brownson. catecfalst; 1940. Gen­eral Husji Aloysius Drum, soldier; 1941,. WiUiara Th<»na9 Walsh, journalist and anther: 1942, Hdea Constance White,' journalist and- auttur;; 1943. Thomas . Francis "Woodloek, editors 'IM<{ Aaae O'Hare MeConniek. joomalist; 1945,'G.'HowIaiid Shaw, diplomat; 1946. Carlton - J. - ~^H. - Hayes, 
- historian: .1947, William G. Knc«, puUidier. 
# \ 
The Students Today: M^ l^cuJe. ^n^&m Qlx^kii WOA 
More than two-diirds o( the Notre Dame stu­dents today ate veterans of World War II. What do these students look like, what do they do, how have they changed the campus—or have they? On diis page, and on the page opposite, you'll find some of the answers. 
Picture I: Bob Griffin, Bridgeport, Conn., was a navy navigator in the Pacific. Now, working in die library, he is checking out books to smiling Bill Harrington, New Rochelle, N. Y., an AAF pilot, and Bill Guyol, Univeisily City, Mo., an AA F control operator. 
Picture 2: J. H. Johnston, Norfolk, Va., (ri^t) and Chuck Patterson, Gretna, Nebr., are the editor and assistant editor, respectively, of the new Juggler, the literary quarterly. The former fou^t dirou^ Sicily, Italy and France and was in die batde of the Bulge and the latter, a Navy pilot, operated widi Torpedo Squadron 19 in the Pacific. 
Picture 3 : Jim Droney, Torrington, Conn., John Sullivan, Lynn, Mass., and Roger O'Reilly, Woodside, N. Y., (left to right) work out in die Rockne Memorial. Droney fought with the in­fantry from Normandy to Germany. Sullivan, in the AA F for 38 mondis, was in the CBI theater. 
O'Reilly, also an infantry man, was a German prisoner for five months. 
Picture 4 : These five are graduate students in physics. Left to right, Jim O'Brien, Avoca, Pa. (navy technician). Eld Schillinger, Chicago (in­fantry—ETO). Walt La Berge, Maywood, 111. (mine sweeper commander), Ed Wolicki. Buffa­lo, N. Y. (AAF), John Williamson, Philadel­phia (AAF). 
Picture 5: Ted Weber, Ypsilanti, Mich., tells John Deimiston, Lombard, 111., Bob Kopf, To­ledo, O., and Al Sommer, Golf, III. (top bunk) how enemy dive bombers circled the South Pa­cific island where he was stationed in the Army. The other three fought with the infantry in the ETO. All four belonged to the class of '45 wl ^ diey entered the Army in 1943 and all four VR / turned to Notre Dame last September. 
Picture 6: Much of the ready transition to campus living is refiected in this picture, taken at daily Lenten adoration in Sacred Heart Church. John Chambers, Chicago, left, completed 45 mis­sions with the AAF in the Soudi Pacific and Ed Snyder, Warren, O., a freshman, served with the 
Navy before entering Notre Dame. 
MSS-', 

throwing open their dance doors to all crown in the 155- and 165-ponnd weights, students on April 1. respectively; Bill Roemer, South Bend, The Juggler (a revived Scrip with made short work of his opponent to win a new name) appeared at campus doors the light heav3rweight crown; while Jack 
TODAY 
Dedicated to teaching universal knowl­edge, Notre Dame might easily qualify as an international settlement. Twenty-one countries, including France, Ger­many, Poland, Hungary, Java, India, China, the Philippines, and many Latin and South American countries, are rep­resented on the campus. In the fullest sense of the word, Notre Dame is cath­olic. 

A traditional and colorful ceremony, interrupted during the war years, was resumed on Washington's Birthday, when the Senior class presented its flag to the University. Charles J. Patterson, Gretna, Nebr., delivered the oration; John Mastrangelo, Vandergrift, Pa., senior president, presented the flag and the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president, accepted it for the Univer­sity. 
Two distinguished campus clubs. Wranglers and the Economic Round Ta­ble, recently held their annual member­ship meetings. The Wranglers, who are going to invite all ex-Wranglers back to a banquet at graduation time, ad­mitted five new members, while the Eco­nomic Round Table found the budget allowed three new faces. 
Senior Ball Comes Back 

The Senior Ball, after a respite of four years, has returned to N. D. For the first time since 1942, seniors have a gala week-end of their own. Besides the main attraction. May 16 in the Palais Royale in South Bend, which features Franlde Masters' orchestra, the Ball committee has arranged with Frank Leahy to have the Old Timers' football game played in the Stadium on the fol­lowing afternoon. May 17. Plans are also in the making to hold a Candlelight Dance Saturday evening at a nearby country club. 
Working in conjunction with Rev. Jo­seph Barry, C.S.C, newly appointed di­rector of student activities, co-chairman George Sullivan announced a few weeks ago that Griff Williams and his orches­tra have been signed for the Junior Prom, which will be held on May 2 in the Rockne Memorial. 
Other successful dances recently: Sophomore Cotillion on Feb. 7 and the Rebels' Mardi Gras party on Shrove Tuesday. The Knights of Columbus are on March 28. J. H. Johnston, Norfolk, Va., and C. J. Patterson, Gretna, Nebr., along with moderator Father Leo L. Ward, C. S. C, deserve plaudits for their initial endeavor. The Dome is.facing probable delay, according to editor John Walker, Elgin, 111. Difficulties in the printing business will likely mean an August publication date and a lot of mailing of the copies. The Scholastic staff draws a three-week breather after putting out a fine basketball edition March 21. 
A Bridge Tournament, No Less 

April 1 saw the Villagers throw their annual testimonial dinner for the Irish basketball team . . . West coasters are planning a real wild west rodeo for May. The Student Council is sponsoring a bridge tournament, and 64 two-somes are entered. The Student Council is also behind the current drive to send dele­gates from Notre Dame to the constitu­tional meeting of the National Student Organization in Madison, Wis., next September. The current question is whether Notre Dame is to subscribe to the organization. Several open student forums have been held on the matter. As yet no resolution or vote has been forth­coming on the delegate discussion. 
And sure, March 17 was a fighting day for the Fighting Irish. A record Ben­gal Bout crowd of 5,000 jammed the Field House on St. Patrick'? night to witness the finals of the most colorful and most financially successful of all fifteen Bengal Bouts. Ten thous­and had attended four nights of prelim­inaries. 
Jim Sullivan, Worcester, Mass., took the crown in the 125-pound class; Frank Debitetto, Brooklyn, N.Y., staged a third-round comeback to grab the 130-pound championship; Mike Conley, Boston, Mass., easily won the 135-pound deci­sion; Jim Klockenkemper, Batchtown, 111., won laurels in the 145-pound divi­sion; Jim Brennan and Terry Brennan, brothers from Milwaukee, Wis., took the 

N. D. CHEMISTS LUNCHEON 
American Chemical Society. Con­vention, Ritz-Carlton Hotel, Atlantic City, N. J.. Wednesday, April 16.12:15 
p. m. $2.85. Dr. Kenneth Campbell ia charge. All N. D. alunmi attending are invited. 

Fallon, Alton, HI., was crowned heavy­weight title holder. 
Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chi­cago Tribune, and honorary referee of the finals, presented the Sportsmanship Trophy to Gus Cifelli, Philadelphia. 
Early March saw the successful pre­sentation of an original all student mu­sical production, "Meet the Missus." Ed Cashman, Peoria, HL, a graduate stu­dent in music, wrote twelve new songs for the show, while James Murphy, In­dianapolis, Ind., and James Sheridan, Manhasset, L. I., N. Y., prepared the script. The musical comedy was pro­duced by George Bariscillo, Bradley Beach, N. J., while the. direction was in the hands of Noel Digby, New Orleans, and John HcKeon, River Forest, HL Vir­tually the same six produced "Let's Get Going," Notre Dame's first all-student musical comedy of 1943. 
Forty-three members of the Notre Dame Glee club will make their annnal eastern tour at Easter vacation. Dates and places are: April 5, Syracuse, N. Y.; April 6, Lynn, Mass.; April 7, Hart­ford, Conn.; April 8, Poughkeepsie^ N. Y.; April 9, Olean, N. Y.; April 10, Binghampton, N. Y.; April 11, Erie, Fa.; April 12, Mansfield, O. 
Add Indiana Map: Vetsrille 

A unique settlement known as Vets-ville, and inhabited by 117 married vet­erans and their families, has made its appearance on the campus. The project was constructed last summer to alleviate partially the University's serious hous­ing crisis. This group recently formed a representative government to. solve problems affecting the community. Pat­rick H. Hagerty, a Navy veteran from Toledo, O., now enrolled in the Collie of Law, won the mayoralty election of the community and the following six stu­dent veterans were named to the City Council: Leo M. Riunely, Jr., Wilton, Conn., William F. Hooley, Portsmouth, p., Robert D. Hunt, Eldridge, Calif., Vince Scully, Jr.. Highland Park, HI., Frank J. Romano, Jr., Chicago, and Eari 
E. Bushman, Providence, R. I. .:.^; 
•Among, plans envisioned by civic "oMr cials of. Vetsville are^ a..cooperative food movefmeht to .Tielp; cut down expenses for the veterans and their families, and construction, with' the aid of. i^oire Dame, of a recreation building' in" the project.' The municipality already has a weekly newspaper edited and publish«F by John V.'Hnpf, of Pittsburgh, Pa.--•­

CARDINAL VON PREVSING AT N. D. • 
Catholic education is vitally import­ant in combating all forms of totalitar­ianism. His Eminence, Conrad Cardinal 
Mediaeval Institute Opened 
Solemn High Mass Starts Project; Father Phelan Speaks. 
A tinique project in American scholar­and superstition among the barbarians ship, the Mediaeval Institute, was form­who swept over Europe; those were the ally inaugurated on Feb. 2 at Notre centuries which saw the transformation Dame to study the principles and ideals of fierce and warlike peoples into lovers underlying the formation of Western civ­of ardor and peace; they were the ages 
ilization in the Middle Ages, and to ap­which fostered the development of stable ply them for the benefit of art, science, government, wise laws and progressive religion, politics and other phases of 
institutions, gained recognition for the dignity of labor and regarded expert modem living. 
craftsmanship; they gave birth to the 
In an address to the faculty and stu­first universities, encouraged profound dents Rev. Dr. Gerald B. Phelan, director philosophical and theological learning; of the Mediaeval Institute, said that con­inspired great works of art (like the trary to popular belief, the Middle Ages cathedrals of Europe) and in general, —^the so-called "Dark Ages"—were pro­accumulated the vast capital of culture ductive of the highest type of Christian and civilization upon which the Western culture, which the Institute proposes to world has been living ever since. study. Father Phelan also was the cele­
brant of Solemn High Mass for fac­"We are the heirs to all that wealth ulty and students which marked the for­of human values. The Mediaeval Insti­mal opening of the Institute. tute proposes to investigate the resources of that inheritance and to learn to use 
Citing the fact that "vast numbers it for the benefit of contemporary so­of our fellow citizens no longer think in ciety ..." 

Christian categories nor envisage the problems of moral, social or political life, "Our problems concern the integra­industry, education, finance, or law from tion of modem industrialism, modem de­the traditional point of view of Chris­mocracy, modem finance and commerce, tian ethics," Faher Phelan warned that modem science and invention into the Western civilization as we know it is traditional culture which our remote an­threatened with extinction "unless we cestors built up and our immediate fore­are prepared to make vast and mighty fathers bequeathed to us. The peoples of efforts to preserve it and to pass it on Europe among whom that culture origi­to our posterity." nated and developed were themselves 
confronted with similar problems all "The University of Notre Dame," he through the course of their history. They added, "is prepared to take a leading tackled them and solved them. Their so­
part in this great and noble enterprise. 
lutions were not always the best that The time is ripe for a thorough-going could have been found, but they were study of what that tradition of Christ­more than satisfactory and perhaps, the ian culture historically implies—what best that could be done in the conditions 
are its guiding principles in thought, in and circumstances of the times. 
actual living, in art, in religion, in poli­
tics—in a word, in all the various ele­"We must tackle our contemporary ments of human life which go to make problems with the same spirit . . . All a civilization." 
the great conquests of modem science and learning must once again be inte­Father Phelan explained that the work grated into that traditional culture from of the Institute wiU be primarily re­which they should never have been sev­search into the history of mediaeval cul­ered. But in order to achieve that aim, ture in all its aspects. An apparent we must learn all over again exactly "conspiracy of history," he added, has what that culture stands for and how it taught us to look upon the Middle Ages can be sustained. This is the work which as a "long dark night of a thousand the Mediaeval Institute proposes to un­years." Until recently, this has been dertake." 
the opinion of even learned people, he declared. 
Father John J. Cavanaugh, C. S. C, 

"Yet," he added, "those were the ages-President of the University of Notre in which the vital forces of Christian Dame, introduced Father Phelan to the culture, leavened the mass of ignorance faculty and students. 
von Preysing, archbishop of Berlin, Ger­many, declared March 19 in addressing the student body. 
The Cardinal, who is in the United States to thank the American people for their generous gifts of food, clothing and medicines to his war-stricken people, told the Notre Dame student body that "only Christ and His doctrines can cre­
' ate a new world and a new order, and the basis of your Catholic training enables you as educated Catholics to work for the kingdom of Christ as well as for your own temporal welfare." 
"We' are confronted in Germany," he stressed, "with the aftermath of the ter-^ , rible ideologry of Nazism. Thank God it ' ' has been destroyed. But the war has left our cities, churches and hospitals in ruins. Our peoples are freezing and starving. That is why we are appealing to generous Americans for help." 
Cardinal von Preysing was honored at an official faculty reception at Notre Dame and was guest of honor at a din­ner. He was also honored at a luncheon ' and reception by faculty and students at St. Mary's College, Notre Dame. The Cardinal was accompanied on his visit to Notre Dame and St. Mary's by his personal secretary. Rev. Bernard Schwerdtfeger, and Rev. Paul F. Tanner, assistant general secretary of the Na­tional Catholic Welfare Conference, Washington, D. C. 
Other dignitaries who were present at Notre Dame to receive Cardinal von ^j , Prejreing included Most Rev. Paul C. ^ Schulte, archbishop of Indianapolis; Most Rev. John F. Noll, bishop of Fort Wayne, and Most Rev. John G. Bennett, bishop of Lafayette, Ind. 


ON TWO BOARDS 

Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, presi­dent; has been appointed a member of the board-of visitors of the United States Naval Academy for 1947. 
Father Cavanaugh also was recently invited to serve on the Indiana state selection board for selection of members in the Naval Jleserve Officers Training Corps and the Naval Aviation College program. 
PAUL G. HOFFMAN SPEAKS 

Paul G. Hofiinan, president of the Studebaker Corporation, spoke at a meeting sponsored jointly by the Uni-g\ versity and the Engineers Club of St. ^ Joseph Valley on March 25 in the Navy Drill Hall on the campus. His subject was the "Outlook for Capitalism". 
Volume 25, No. 2, April, 1947 
By Baymoiul J. DonaTaii. '42> 
Aadatont Diraeiar ei 
» » 
PnUicl 

ATHLETICS 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^V^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^»^^^^»^^>^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^*^^^^^^^^^MMMMM«i^^^^^^^^^^^^^M^^^^^^^^MVMMMMM'^MMWMMMMWMMM^» 

BASKETBALL 
Coach Ed Krause, who returned to No­tre Dame last year after serving as a lieutenant in the Marine Corps, guided the 1946-47 Notre Dame basketball team to one of the most successful seasons in the history of the sport at the Univer­sity with a record of 20 victories and only four defeats. 
The Irish quintet, losing only to pow­erful Kentucky, Big Nine champion Wis-

A consin, Purdue and DePaul, set a new season scoring record of 1,573 points during the 24 games. (The old team mark of 1,241 points was chalked up by the 1944-45 aggregation under the direc­tion of Clem Crowe). Both Purdue and DePaul were beaten in second games. Kentucky and Wisconsin were played only once each. 
In registering a new scoring mark, the Notre Dame team scored eighty or more points in six games and seventy or more in six other tUts. The high-scor­ing spree of the season was an 87 to 61 win over Marquette on Jan. 28. The sea­son low was on Feb. 1, when Kentucky chalked up a 60 to 30 victory. 
The 1946-47 Notre Dame quintet also extended the winning streak of Irish basketball teams on the Notre Dame 

^ court to 33 straight victories. A Notre Dame basketball team has not been de­feated at home since Dec. 4, 1943, when Western Michigan won, 46 to 42. 
The Blue and Gold cagers opened the season with three straight wins over Franklin, Ball-State and Indiana, before losing an overtime 53 to 49 decision to Wisconsin at Madison. After trimming Drake, Dartmouth, St. Louis and Butler in succession, Purdue came through with a terrific fast-breaking attack to outrun the Irish, 60 to 56, at Lafayette. 
The Krausemen breezed over Michi­gan State, Detroit, Purdue, and Mar­quette with ease before that fateful night in Louisville, on Feb. 1, when a big, fast team of Kentucky Wildcats proved their rating as the No. 1 team in the nation by swamping the Irish, 60 to 30, in a con­test in which Notre Dame seemingly 

. ^ couldn't do anything right. 
Once again the Irish started a victory parade which included wins over Butler, Michigan State, Northwestern, DePaul, Canisius and New York University be­fore Coach Bay Meyer's DePaul Demons turned in a 61 to 50 revenge victory over Notre Dame in the Chicago Sta­dium. 
Notre Dame, winding up the season as the No. 2 team in the national ratings, completed the campaign with convinc­ing triumphs over Nortliwestem, St Louis Univerdity and Marquette. 
John Brennan, freshman center from Bedford, Ind., copped the individual scoring title for the Irish with a total of 289 points in the twu:ty-four game schedule. Frannie Curran, captain and forward from Sterling, EL, was second with 239 points, while Kevin O'Shea, brilliant freshman from San Francisco, had a total of 210 tallies. John Kelly, Utica, N. Y., and Curran are the only regulars lost for next year. 


TRACK 
Led by Capt. John Smith, who has set new hurdling records in almost every start this atason, th>: Nott'e Dame track squad completed its dual and triangular indoor competition this season with but one defeat; 
The Irish opened their season on Feb. 1 with a 65% to 38% victory over the Purdue Boilermakers. On the following Saturday, they competed in the Michigan State Relays, but no points were award­ed to teams competing. " Notre Dame scored a victory in its only triangfular meet on Febi 15 by outscoring Michigan Normal and Marquette. 
The boys continued their winning ways the following week with a 67 2/3 to 431/3 victory over Iowa. Michigfan State came to Notre Dame the following " week-end and marred the record by downing the Irish, 611/3 to 52 2/3. The 
1947 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
October  4—At Pittsburgh  
October  11—At Purdue  
October  18—Nebraska, here  
October  25—Iowa, here  

November 1—^Navy ot CleTeland November 8—^Army, here November 15—^At Northwestern November 22—Tuldne, here November 29—Open December 6—At Southern CoL 

two teams were separated by only 3 2/3 points as the mile relay,^ the last event on the program, got under way. The rival relay combines battled on even terms, but, at the start of the fourth lap, a dropped baton cost Notre Dame its chance of victory. 
Notre Dame, in the role of defending champions, competed in the Central Col­legiates on March 7, but were able to finish only second behind Michigan State, who scored their first victory in this event in 13 years. The Spartans, scoring in every event, tallied 54 ponts to the Irish's 38%. 
The Irish were also dethroned as the Illinois Tech Belay champions on the following Saturday, although no points were awarded. Notre Dame was unable to capture a single first place either in the relay events or in the individual comr petition. 
In his four home appearances of the season, Capt. Smith set or tied at least one record. His outstanding perform­ance came in the Iowa meet when he set an all-time Notre Dame record and a fieldhoose record of :07.3 in the 60­yard high hurdles, and in the triangular meet, when he skimmed over the hurdles in the 60-yard lows in :06.9, also an all-time Notre Dame record and a fieldhouse standard. 
Other leading performers with Notre 

Dame this season have been George Sul­livan and Luke Higgins in the shot put; Dave Murphy in the 440-yard dash; Jim Murphy, two-mile ran; Bill Leonard, one-mile; Bill Tolly, 880-yard run; Ter­ry Brennan in the pole-vault; and Kay . Sobota, in the 440 and 880. Dave Mur­phy, running in the 400-yard dash, set 
a new C. C. record of :31.7. 

FENQNG 
Victorious in three out of six starts, as this is written, Notre Dame is com­peting in intercollegiate fencing for the first time since 1942 under the direction of a new coach. Herb Melton ('42) of Paducah, Kentucky. The sport was dropped because of war conditions after the 1942 season, but was revived agiun this season by Coach Melton, a mono­gram winner on the 1941 team, and now a law student at the university. . 
Notre Dame has scored victories over 
Cincinnati, Michigan State and previous­ly unbeaten Wisconsin. The Irish tasted defeats at the hands of the Northwestern Wildcats twice and Michigan State. They were to compete against Culver Military Academy on Marcli 2S and then compete in the National JntercMIegiates in Chicago on April 12. 
Squad members and their home towns: Eobert Bosler,. Louisville, Ky.; Louis Bums, Washington, D. C; Michael Di-Cicco, Newark, N. J.; Ventui-a Gonzalez, Dallas, Texas; Peter Gross, Brooklyn, 

N. Y.; James Jansen, Altoona, Fa.; Ger­ald Lubin, El Paso, Texas; Al Ortiz, Sante Fe, N. M.; Eobert Schlosser, Springfield, HI., and Ralph Witucki, South Bend, Ind. 

GOLF 
Six returning monogram winners are expected to provide the nucleus for the 1947 Notre Dame golf team under the di­rection of the Rev. George Holderith, C. S.C, Irish golf coach. 

Everhart Schleck, of South Milwau­kee, Wis., who won a monogram with the 1946 Irish golfers, is captain of this year's Irish linksmen. Others returning who earned monograms in last season's powerful squad are Jim Besenfelder, of Mendota, Bl., who also earned a mono­gram at Notre Dame in 1944, and George Stuhr, sophomore mainstay from Garden City, N. Y. Two other mono­gram winners from the 1944 squad also have returned—Jack Fitzpatrick, San Francisco, and Dick Deidel, of St. Paul. Minn. Tom Dore, of Dearborn, Mich., who won a monogram as a member of the 1945 Notre Dame team, is the sixth monogram winner returning for competi­tion this year. 
The schedule: 
April 7—^Kentucky and Louisville at Louisville 

April 19—Wisconsin at Notre Danie April 26—Purdue at Notre Dame May 3—^Michigan State at Notre Dame May 5—^Notre Dame at Michisan May 10—^Notre Dame at Northwestern May 12—Notre Dame at Marquette 
May 15—^Detroit at Notre Dame May 19—^Notre Dame at Minnesota 
June 13—^NCAA Tourney at U. of MichiBan 


BASEBALL 
Eighteen former monogram winners arie among the 150 candidates for the 1947 Notre Dame baseball team who are preparing for the opening of the season under the direction of Coach Jake Kline. 
Heading the catching department is Tom Sheehan, of New Haven, Conn., who won monograms as the Irish back­stop in 1943. 1944 and 1946. Close be­hind Sheehan, however, is Jim Presley, of Spokane," Wash., who; although not a monogram winner, has been impressive in pre-season workouts. 
Coach Kline has the basis for a highly-competent pitching staff with four pre­vious lettermen ready for action. They are Walt Mahannah, of Memphis, Dick SmuUen, of Bronxville, N. Y., Dick Kluck, of Chicago, and John Creevey, of Clawson, Mich. Mahannah, Smullen and Kluck all won monograms at Notre Dame last year, while Creevey earned a monogrram in 1943. 
The outlook for a strong infield also is bright with at least one monogram winner available for every position. Ray Petrzelka, of Cedar Rapids, la., who won a monogram last year,-and Jim McGurk, of Montclair, N. J., a letterman in 1945, lead the first base candidates. Tom Car­lin, 1943 monogram winner from Tren­ton, N. J., and Benny Kozlik, of Chicago, 111., who won a letter last year, pace the second sackers. Three monogram men —Gene Lavery, of Brooklyn, N. Y„ from 1946; Frank Ciszczon, of East Chicago, Ind., from 1944, and Bobby Klein, of Buffalo, N. Y., from 1943—are available for the third base position. George Schneider, of New York City, who won monograms at second base in 1945 and 1946, has been shifted to shortstop. 
In the.outfield, four capable monogram men have returned. They include Jack Mayo, of Youngstown, O., who won monograms in 1944 and 1946 and who led the Irish nine in hitting last year; Neil Kelly, of Bridgeport, Conn., who earned a letter in 1944; Steve Pavela, of LaCrosse, Wis., a letterman in 1943, and John (Buster) Hiller, of East Bemstadt, Ky., who won a monogram in 1942. 
The schedule follows: 
April 3—^At Washington University 5—At Parks Air CoIIeee 6—^At St. Louis TTniversity 7—At St. Louis University 8—^At Concordia College 
15—^At Michigan 18—^Wisconsin at Notre Dame 19—Wisconsin at Notre Dame 22—Northwestern at Notre Dame 25—St. Thomas College at Notre Dame 2S—At Michigan State 29—At Purdue 30—^lowa at Notre Dame 
May 1—^lowa at Notre Dame 3—At Western Michigan G—^At Northwestern 9—^At Indiana University 
10—^At Indiana University 13—^Michigan at Notre Dame 16—At Ohio State 17—At Ohio State 20—^Purdue at Notre Dame 24—^Michigan State at Notre Dame 30—^Western Michigan at Notre Dame 31—Western Michigan at Notre Dame 


TENNIS 
One of the best seasons in the history of the University was in prospect for the 1947 Notre Dame tennis team as Coach Walter Langford greeted ten former % monogram winners at the opening of practice. 
Four of the returning monogram win­ners who have returned to Notre Dame this year won their letters as members . of the 1944 team which swept to an un­defeated season. They are Charles Sam­son, of South Bend; Jerry Evert, of.Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.; Bill Tully, of Bronx­ville, N. Y., and Jim Griffin, of Evans­ton, m. Tully also won monograms dur­ing the 1945 and 1946.seasons and cap­tained last year's squad. 
Another quartet of the returning let­termen performed on the 1943 Irish net squad which won six and lost only one match. Jimmy Evert, of Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., a brother of Jerry; Ed Caparo, of South Bend, who also won a monogram last year; Dick Hartman, of Ft. Wayne, Ind., also a monogram winner in 1946; and Jim Quinn, of Springfield, Mass.. comprise this group. 
The remaining two lettermen return­ing for this year's squad are Joe Brown, of Rochester, N. Y., who won mono­grams in 1945 and 1946, and Dick Foun­tain, a monogram winner on the 1945 squad. 

BUDENZ BOOK APPEARS 

The life story of Louis F. Budenz, ex-Communist, was published on March 17, under the title. This Is My Story. 
Mr. Budenz, former manag^ing editor of the Communist newspaper The Daily Worker, who was for a time a Notre Dame faculty member, was reared as a Catholic in Indianapolis, but deserted Ai the Faith. 
For some time he believed that he could be a Catholic and a Communist at the same time, and worked to convert others to the same belief, but became disillusioned and renounced Communism, returning to the Catholic Faith. 
-The publishers have chosen The Thom­as More Book Club, 220 West Madison street, Chicago 6, to distribute the Bu­denz book to its members. The book club is a project of John C. Tully, '11, editor of the magazine. Books on Trial. 
The HeT. lohn J. Coronaugh. CS. C 
president oi the Umversity of Notre 

Dame, is the recipient of an especial-
IT eacheted envelope used hj the 
fonrth Byid expedition. 
The enrelope. one of only 200 

printed for the expedition, contcnned 
a recent letter from Lee Van Atta. 
International News Serrice eoires­
pondent with the expedition. 

Wd, letTs set smns. I looked in the but climUi. So take it euy. foUo. H^D rise OX. —Rufua Wmiam Raueh -
MoUe> 3bame Boaki 
INTRODUCTOKY SOCIOLOGY, b y Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C, '18, F. 
S. Crofts and Co., ?6.00. 

This book by Father Murray, head of the Sociology Deprtment at Notre Dame, is variously called a "second edition" or a "revision" of his earlier work in the same field. In reality, having many new chapters and new subjects—the material is more than doubled—it is a new book. 
And it is a book that will be warmly welcomed in many alumni homes. Desig­
||) nated as a textbook. Introductory Soci­ology is much more than that: it is also an authoritative reference in relation to the Catholic approach to sociological problems. Reflecting this conviction. Father Charles McCarragher, C.S.C, suggests in Tlie Ave Maria that the book contains much admirable material "for parish discussion groups and other social action organizations." Father John P. Kleinz writes in Books on Trial that the book is "recommended not only to soci­ology classes but also to any reader de­siring complete and invaluable back­ground material for an understanding of the problems (and answers) of culture in America today." 
Alumni will find in the volume a treat­ment of many subjects which arise so often in the routines of business life and 
^ social life. Race and race relations, for inst^ce, as well as the family, heredity, personality maladjustments, poverty, crime and population. Are you puzzled sometimes when the conversation turns to such fields? Here is something from Notre Dame to help you. 
THE IRON PASTORAL, by John Fred­erick Nims, '37. William Sloane Associates, New York, $2.50. 
People seriously interested in the con­tinuity and development of poetry today have been aware for some years now of the fine and original talent of John Fred­erick Nims. He has published his work in many of the better literary magazines, and in 1944 he was one of the Five Young American Poets brought out by New Directions Press. In the early nine­teen-forties he had won in successive 
' years three of the most important prizes given in recognition of distinguished work by Poetry magazine. He is now one of the editors of Poetry; an alumnus of Notre Dame, he is an associate pro­fessor of English in the University. 
This book, published in March, is his first independent volume of collected poetry. It is certain to bring him a wider audience; more than that, it es­tablishes him now as one of the most in­teresting and talented of the younger generation of writers. 
John Nims' poetry is modem, in the best sense; that is, it is earned, not facile or cheap; it is deeply honest, and often intense in the relevance of the poefs to­tal consciousness to the immediate ex­perience, even when that experience, or subject, seems slight or "unpoetic"; and in craftsmanship, it is highly disciplined, often masterful, never glibly repetitive. But his poetry is not modem in the pop­ular misconception of being "queer," arbitrarily difficult or involved in any fancy "isms." 
As the title suggests, many of these poems deal sharply with the life of cities: the hard edge, the glitter, the soft under-belly; the pleasures and the pains, the escapes; but always the hun­gry search for happiness. Whatever the subject or the mood, based usually on keen observation and modulated with wit or satire or pathos, there is in much of this poetry a moving sympathy, a real awareness of suffering, "a passionate concern for the dignity of the human spirit." In this sense there is a very genuine religious sensibility at work here. It is not, however, a religion worn slickly on the sleeve, "for daws to peck at." 
To quote only in part from a true poem is unfair, but this passage from "ApocaljT)se" may suggest, not the range of the poet's achievement, but something of his quality: 
But some in the Wand spectacles of leamine With holy water sponge the hlood away. See pie in the sky and chortle hallaluiah, Yoo-hoo the silver lining, the new day. 
Silver is Caesar's penny and coward's color. Gilt Haalim, silver lining, hoth are sin As Pilate heels away, as Herod darkens. And hard at noon the hlackest honrs hegin. 
The cheerful are the round blank idiot faces; Their hair is hanging frowzy in the beer; They take their eyeballs out to play at marbles. Scratching the catamite ilium of cheer. 
As if. among the quiet sad of Calvary, A third should yawn, and pick his teeth, and say: 
WOVEN OF THE SKY, by Sister Mir­iam, R.S.M. A.M. '27, Nenr DeLuxe Edition. The Hosher Press, 1946, $2.50. 
The poems of Sister Miriam, a Notre Dame alumna, originally published by the Macmillan Company in 1940, are now offered in this new deluxe edition, with a preface by Odell Shepard. 
In this collection of her lyric verses, many of which have appeared in leading Catholic periodicals. Sister Miriam dis­plays a nun-like simplicity, s woman­like subjectivity, and a heaven-like pre­occupation with the things of the spirit. 
This poignant quatrain, called Sanc­tuary, is typical of her style: 
I cannot east away my cross, Nor thorns about my brow untwine. But I can knock at Heaven's gate 'When Sartow knoeks at mine. 
In an enlightening introduction, Odell Shepard says of the poet: "Here is a modem mind that has been disciplined by tradition. Here is a fine and vigor­ous intelligence wedded to warmth of heart, .^ d in these poems, finally, there is a passionate acceptance nobly uttered, of the loftiest adventure upon which the human spirit can set forth." 
Four important fundamental problems of finance are emphasized in a new text­book. Money and Banking, written by Dr. Raymond F. Kent, associate profes­sor of finance at Notre Dame^ published by Rinehart & Company, Inc. 
Dr. Kent, in the preface to the new textbook, sets forth his objective as fol­lows: "Especially have I attempted to emphasize the far-reaching effects which are involved in the establishment of par­ticular monetary standards, the pro­found significance of the role of the commercial banks as our chief money-creating institutions, the power and re­sponsibility of the Federal Reserve ao­thorities to control the volume of money in circulation, and the important bear­ing of the fis<al oimrations of the federal government upon monetary and banking developments." 
' Money and Banking, a general text­book dedgrned for undergraduate courses, contains separate groups of diapters on money, commercial banking structure, commercial bank operation^ central banking, the value of money, monetary pdicy, international paymoit, and miscellaneoas banking'institutions. 
Summer Session To Be Resumed 
Eight-week Program Will Offer Special Courses in Liturgical Subjects. 
After a three year halt because of the war, the Summer School at the Uni­versity will reopen this June, with both graduate and undergraduate courses. Registration will begin on June 17, with classes starting on June 19 and con­tinuing until Aug. 13. 
In addition to the regular courses in all five undergraduate colleges and the Graduate School, special, courses will be offered this simuner in library science, teacher training in mathematics, and re­ligion. 
The new religion program includes the history of Christian doctrine and spir­ituality. It is designed to make a sub­stantial contribution to the present move­ment of the Catholic Church towards a deeper knowledge of theology by the laity. Subject matter in the new course will include Christian dogma and morals, sacred scripture, modem problems in apologetics, ascetical theology, and the liturgy of the Church. 
Also during the simuner session No­tre Dame will offer its first liturgical program under the direction of Eev. Mi­chael A. Mathis, C.S.C. This program will be twofold, academic and practical. 
The academic features of the program will be three courses of five class hours each week, leading to three semester credit hours in each course, under the usual conditions, in the undergraduate departments of Religion and Music. 
Course I is a series of lectures on the History of the Sacred Liturgy accord­ing to the Latin Rite from Christian an­tiquity up to and including the modem liturgical movement. These lectures will be given by Dom Thomas Aquinas Mich­els, O.S.B., Ph.D., of St. Paul's Priory, Keyport, N. J. 
Course II comprises five lectures each week on some important topic in liturgy. These lectures will be given by lecturers of national repute, as follows: Dom God­frey Diekman, O.S.B.; Dr. Willis D. Nut­ting of Notre Dame; Rev. H. A. Rein­hold; Very-Rev. Msgr. R. Hillenbrand; Rev. Bernard Laukemper; Dom Bede Scholz, O.S.B.; Dom Damasus Winzen, O.S.B.; and Rev. Gerald EUard, S.J. 
Course HI, including five hours weekly in the theory and practice of Plain Chant, will be conducted by Dom Ed­mund Kestel, O.S.B., and Prof. Daniel 

H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music at Notre Dame. 
The practical side of the progrram will be woven into the order of the day through various liturgical fvmctions, in which Summer School students will par­ticipate. 

MEXICO CITY SUMMER SESSION 

As a contribution toward better inter-American understanding the University will sponsor a summer session in Mexico City from June 23 to Aug. 22, it was an­nounced on March 20 by Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C, director of studies. 
The Notre Dame summer session in Mexico City will be operated in conjunc­tion with Mexico City College, an Amer­ican-type institution founded in 1940 to provide American university work for students from the United States who de­sire to study in the foreign atmosphere. Credit for courses in the smnmer session will be given by Mexico City College and accepted by Notre Dame through trans­cript up to a maximum of nine credit hours. 
Most of the courses to be offered at the Notre Dame summer session in Mex­ico will be taught in English, although a few will be offered only in Spanish and some will be taught both in English and Spanish. 
The Notre Dame summer session in Mexico will be open to all Notre Dame students, alumni and former students, as well as a limited number of other inter­ested persons. The complete facilities and faculty of Mexico City College will be at the disposal of the Notre Dame group. 
Veterans of World War II may attend the summer session in Mexico under the 
G. I. Bill of Rights. A Veteran Admin­istration unit now is in operation in Mexico City to expedite the affairs of veterans in that country. 
Prof. Walter Langford, head of the Department of Modem Languages at Notre Dame, will serve as director of the summer session in Mexico, and inquiries may be directed to him. 

FATHER CAVANAUGH HONORED ^ 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, pres­ident, received plaudits of political, edu­cational and religious leaders at a testi­monial dinner in Owosso, Mich., his home town, on Feb. 4. 
Michael Gorman, editor of the Flint Journal, presided as toastmaster. Among those who extended greetings to Father Cavanaugh at the dinner were: Bishop Joseph H. Albers, Lansing, Mich.; Bish­op William J. Murphy, Saginaw, Mich.; Bishop John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, of Buf­falo, N. Y., a former president of Notre Dame; Governor Kim Sigler, of Michi­gan, former Governor Harry F. Kelly, '17, of Michigan, and Fred L. Crawford of the Michigan Congressional district. 
Also extending best wishes were: Dr. A\ 
A. G. Ruthven, president of the Univer­sity of Michigan; Dr. John A. Hanna, president of Michigan State College; the Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, who preceded Father Cavanaugh as presi­dent of Notre Dame; Mayor J. Edwin Ellis, of Owosso, and the Rev. R. R. Ren­ison, president of the Owosso Ministerial Association. 

FELLOWSHIPS IN HISTORY 

Applications for four one-year grad­uate fellowships in American history, known as the Hearst Foundation Fel­lowships in American history, are now being accepted by the Graduate School at the University according to Rev. Phil­ip S. Moore, C.S.C, dean. 
The Hearst Foundation Fellowships in American History were established last ^ year from the income of a $100,000 gift presented to Notre Dame by the Hearst Foundation. 
Recipients of the four fellowships will receive a stipend of $500 plus tuition and fees which total $1,000 for the school year. The fellowships each are for a period of one school year and may be renewed providing the work of the recipients is satisfactory. 
Application for the fellowship is open to college graduates with proper recom­mendations and must be filed with the Dean of the Graduate School before June 1. 
The University was recently host to more than 1,000 Boy Scout officials and parents of Boy Scouts at the annual din­ner meeting of the St. Joseph Valley 
Council, Boy Scouts' of America. 
e^)

Rev. John H. Murphy C.S.C, vice-president, headed a delegation of Notre Dame officials and professors who at­tended the meeting. 
Volume 25, No. 2, April, 1947 

ALUMNI CLUBS 
Baltimore 
LEWIS 0*SHEA was elected president of the club at the Feb. 25 meeting in the Lord Balti­more Hotel. DR. ROT. O. SCHOLZ was elected vice-president. •WILLIAM HARTMAN. secre­tary, and CY STKOKER, treasurer. The new officers will take oITice on Universal Notre Dame Night at the Bonnie View Country Club. A Monte Carlo party will be held that night following the official celebration. PRANK HOCHRBITER is chairman of the committee. 
llr. O'Shea succeeds BILL JACOBS, who was the first president of the club. 
Members of the club made their first annual retreat at Manresa on the Severn, near Annap­olis, over the Palm Sunday week-end. Dr. Scholz was chairman of tlie retreat committee. 
Buffalo 
At a directors' meeting held Feb. 24 at the home of JACK McKENDRY, JR., the follow­ing officers were elected for the Buffalo Club for the year 1947: president, DONALD W. LOVE; vice-president, JOHN L. HOELSCHER; treasurer, GEORGE VT. PERRICK; secretary, CARLOS H. FRANK. 
Previously at a meeting held at Hotel Shera­ton club members elected, in addition to the above officers, the following Board of Gover­nors: DR. ROBERT BURNS, THOMAS CON­DON, JOSEPH DUNN. JACK KUHLMANN. JAMES MAGEE, JAMES SEYMOUR, DANIEL SHEEDY, PAUL SHBEDT, MARTIN TRAV­EBS. 
On Feb. 22 about 125 alumni and other friends of Notre Dame attended a luncheon at Hotel Sheraton In honor of the Notre Dame basltetball team. BISHOP O'HARA, Coach ED KBAUSE and EARL BROWN, Notre Dame alumnus and coach of Canisius College basket­ball and football teams, gave excellent talks. 
Alumni In the western New York area who have not been receiving notices of Buffalo alumni meetings are reauested to advise the secretary of their where.ibouts, that they may be informed of future events. 
Boston 
The club conducted a ven' successful dinner on Feb. 2S. to greet CLIPPER SMITH. '21. new coach of the Boston Tanks football team. JOHN McMANMON. '27. was the toastmaster. More than 150 were in attendance. Clipper gave a fine talk. 
Other guests at the head table included: HUGH BLITNT, president of the club; Swede Nelson; Brig. Gen. James McManmon; LT. GOV. JOHN McKIERNAN, '34. of Rhode Is­land: JOHN MCLAUGHLIN, president of the Rhode Island Club; JIM CARROLL, manager of the Sheraton Hotel, Worcester. Mass.; JACK SAUNDERS; and REV. CORNELIUS DONO­VAN. 
At the moment plans are being perfected for observance of Universal Notre Dame Night, April 14. 
JOHN HERBERT 

# CenfrofOAJo 
On Jan. 20 we had a special luncheon to welcome STAN COPALL, new director of the Department of Liquor Control, Into the club. JOHNNY DRUZB, end coach of the Fighting Irish, was guest lecturer on Feb. 21 at two movies shown in Columbus. We had two show­ings of the films, "The Story of Notre Dame," and a football picture, ^ver a thousand at­tended the afternoon and evening gatherings. When the afternoon performance was com­pleted the club had JOHNNY DRUZB as guest at the Athletic Club for dinner. Those on the committee for the dinner were: ARCH DAVIS, CARL KEGELMATER. RAT BICHENLAUB, JACK CANNON, JOHN MURPHT and KAT BICHENLAUB, JR. 
RAT BICHENLAUB, JR. 
Central New York 
On Feb. 15, the first meeting of the year was held at the K. of C. Clubhouse, Syracuse. FATHER THEODORE HESBURGH. C.S.C.. of Notre Dame, was the guest speaker. LEO KEL­LET. recently elected to the board of the na­tional Alumni Association, brought us up to date on the workings of the national organiza­tion, and we adopted the constitution of the club in conformity with the national Associa­tion plan. 
The next meeting was a dinner-meeting at the Bellevue Country Club. Attendance was cut down by the snowstorm, but 18 attended. JIM HUXPORD'S nominating committee, con­sisting of JACK McAULIPPE and PAUL KEL­LET, JR.. reported and their slate of six di­rectors was unanimously elected. The directors for 1947 are: JUSTIN CORCORAN, PBEDER­ICK DeLANT, HENRY T. HICKET. JOHN E. McAULIPFE, HAWLBT E. VAN SWALL. re­tiring prexy, and REV. JOSEPH B. TOOMEY. The directors then met and elected the officers —MARK E. MOONEY was elected president, REV. JOHN HARRISON, vice-president and chaplain, and JOHN H. TERRY, secretary and treasurer. Plans were then formulated for the Universal Notre Dame Night celebration. 
From the news department . . . HAWLET 

B. VAN SWALL has a new member of the family—his third girl. And. HANK BICKET, of Aubgm and Syracuse, has a boy. JACK PUTNAM, •35. is now with the Veterans' Ad­ministration after having served as an Infantry company commander. DAN K£XJ£«EY, '39, after a long siege In the hospital as a result of a Jeep accident In the Pacific Is now back on naval active duty. Dan was home for.the last club meeting. JACK McAULIPPB, '39, la a local star for Holy Name Basketball league. E. C. SCHONLAU, who attended Notre Dame as a 
•minim. Is at every N.D. Club function. In the new member department . . . W. E. FARREN, who attended Notre Dame In '14 and '15, Is now associated with Alrcooled Motors; In a Syracose suburb. BILL KELLEY, '41, Is gen­eral manager of Harry Hewlett, Studebaker distributor, a recent advancement. 
JOHN H. TERRT 

CAicogo 
The 1947 club directory has Just been distrib­uted. Due to the untiring effort of FRANK A. MCCARTHY, '06. we were able to publish a directory, regardless of the obstacles. Club members solicited the advertising space, and edited the book, with timely assistance from Messrs. ARMSTRONG. DOOLETT, and DONO­VAN of the University. 
JAMES KANE, '44, Is leading the search for a proper site for our monthly luncheons. Jim feels certain this function will be restmied In the near future. 
LEO POWERS, '25. director of community 

clubs (within the Chicago Club), Is remapping 
the communities, and Initial meetings will be 
under way by the time this goes to press. 
Our singles and-doubles handball tournament 

The Central Ohio Club met at Innehaon on Jan 201 to honor Stan CofaU. '17. nawlr appointed diiector oi the Depoitmani of liqnor Conixol for Ohio. Bar Bchenlanb, Jr. seeretaiy of the club identifiea thoaa praaent. Standing, left to right are: Lao IlalilaT* Joe Byan. Mr. Cooney. Sam Oavina. F. J. Stainboehw. John Msaphcf, Dick Jaagar, Bichoid E. Eiehenlaub. Dan Cannan. Father Folor, Jock Jaagar. Ed Mbriarity. Jade Cannon and Seldon Ttumble. Seated, left to right ore: Bob HbofErtattar. Tad Mae-Donold. Charlea Weilbacher. CaA Kagelmdrar. Menaigaflr Matting^. Bnd Mnrphr. Don Havric. Arch Daria. Bar J. Eichanlanb. fr.. Father Vine* Mannar. Stan Cel<dl and Bay J. Eiehenlaub, Sr. 
is now in full swing at the Ijake Shore Ath­letic Club. Chairman RAT McGRATH. '37, in­forms us suitable trophies will be awarded first, second and third place winners in both divisions. 
Club members were grieved to hear of the death of two prominent members. RICHARD 
J. DtJNX, 'IS, active in both the Chicago and Boston Clubs, passed away in his Chicago home in February-. FRANK NEVII.LB I.EOXARD. '35, "World "War II veteran, died in Hines Veterans' hospital near Chicago, early in March. 
President THOMAS S. McCABE. '22. tolls us plans are already under way for the Football Smoker to be held the night before the Army-Notre Dame game. Co-chairmen JAMES CRON­IX, '35, and ELMER LAYDEN, '25, are work­ing with President McCabe on this function. 
Placement Director VINCEXT MUBPHT, '37, reports continued activity in this field. Vince is revamping the placement facilities to cope with the June graduation. 
JOHN L. BUCKLET, newly elected member of the Board of Governors, missed his initial meeting. Not without sufficient reason, how­ever, for the family has another addition—a boy. This makes five boys. RAT McGRATH Is also a father again. 
JAMES O'SHAUGHXESST, '32, gave one ot the principal addresses at the meeting of the Catholic Family Life Conference here in Chi­cago. 
RATMOND McCLORT, '27. is now head of the Criminal Division of the United States Dis­trict Attorney's office for this area. 
The following men have generously agreed to be on a job counseling panel to assist VINCE MURPHT, vocational chairman for the club, and RED LONBRGAN, in charge ot the club office: Sales, JIM BRENNAN. ARCH GOTT, BERT METZGBR and BRUCE HOLMBERG: Journalism, Advertising and Promotion, JIM SAXFORD, FRANK DOAN and JIM KBARNS: Government, AL KUHLE: Law, JIM LE-WIS and JIM KANE; Accounting, PAUL BRODBR­ICK and PAUL HEIDKAStP: Engineering and Chemistry, DICK HALPIN, AL STEPAN and GEORGE HENEGHAN. 
RED LONERGAN 
Cincinnofi 
On Feb. 10 a smoker was held at the Hotel Alms. JACK GHXTGAN, general chairman, ar­ranged for the showing of the aims of two of last season's games to the members and their guests. HUGH BURNS, Notre Dame trainer, commented in a witty play-by-play account-The pictures were followed by a social hour competently handled by Chairman Gilligan and his committee members, JOE THESING. JIM CLARK. BILTJ illDBENDORF and BOB BISCHOFF. 

The regular monthly meeting was held on March 3, with a buffet supper replacing the usual dinner. "We were honored by REV. JOH^ MURPHY, C.S.C., vice-president of the .Univer­sity, who complimented the ofRcers -whose term of office was to expire that night, on the excel­lent -work they had directed in this city during the past year. Father Murphy brought with him the motion picture, ''Highlights of 1946," and made it doubly enjoyable with his inter­esting comments. 
In recognition of their splendid accomplish­ments, WALT NIENABER, president, and HOWARD ROHAN, vice-president, were re­elected for another year, and BOB LEONARD, secretary-treasurer, was reelected to the office of treasurer. Due. to expansion of the club's activities, the office of secretary was made a separate job, and JOHN COTTINGHAM was elected to that office. 
JOHN C. COTTINGHAM 

Cleveland 
FATHER JOHN MURPHT, vice-president of Notre Dame, was in town Feb. 24. That night we had a dinner for him at Bohr's, at­tended hy the officers of the club and the board members. Father Murphy thoughtfully brought along movies of the football highlights of the Notre Dame 1946 season. 
The club Retreat at St. Stanislaus was held the week-end of Feb. 21. Father Birkenhaur, S.J., was the retreat master. TOM C. BTRNE, president of the club, was retreat captain. Sixty-eight men attended. 
GEORGE KOZAK, able athletic director of the Cleveland Public Schools, was honored re­cently in New York. At a conference of all the 
U. S. Public School system athletic directors, George was elected president of the organi­zation. 
Congratulations to JOE "GEE\'^R" GAVIN, who was named head football coach at Dayton University. Joe did a marvelous job here In. Cleveland at Holy Name High School. 

Congratulations also to GENE OBERST who has been appointed to the athletic directorship at John Carroll University, Cleveland. FRANK­IB GAUL is assistant football coach at Carroll and also coach of the boxing team. 
On Saturday. Feb. 22, Gilmour Academy, op­erated by the Brothers of Holy Cross, dedicated its new gym, called Rockne Gym. FATHER MICHAEL MORIARTY and DON MILLER were the principal speakers at the dedication. On the same occasion, the Academy awarded plaques to the outstanding student In scholar­ship and citizenship. The scholarship plaque was awarded to Norman P. ilcLeod. Jr. The citizenship plaque was awarded also to Norman. This lad who won all the honors is the son of NORMAN P. McLEOD, '29. Congratulations to both of them. 
The Cleveland Club is very proud to have one of its members, LOU BUCKLET, elected to the Alumni Associations Board of Directors. Lou, a former professor at the University, is now with the Social Security Board hero in Cleveland. PIERCE O'CONNOR has moved into his new law offices at 625 Hanna Building. He is now associated with John J. Kennedy. 
FRANK McGRODER is making a survey of all Notre Dame bowlers. We hope to have enough candidates to form a" East Side and a West Side league—with a championship affair . between the respective winners of each league. This is a project for next year's bowling season. 
At the March business meeting of the officers and directors of the club—the Scholarship Com­mittee under CLAYTON LEROUX offered a formal program for scholarship aid to worthy and needy students in the Cleveland area. This program provides for 1. an annual scholarship, 
2. cash loans to needy students, 3. an annual cash prize to a student of the Cleveland Club at Notre Dame and approved by the University authorities as the ontstandjng Cleveland stu­dent of the year. This program was adopted by the officers and directors. 
TOM ENRIGHT 

Cofinecffcuf Valley 
Activity is currently centered around the Glee Club-Concert to be held in Hartford on Easter Monday. We expect a capacitj- audience, with little or no trouble In securing same, and capacity is 3,300! We have had two meetings discussing the project and allotting "prospects" to members for the solicitation of advertising space in the program. To date results have been most encouraging. 
At the recent meeting to discuss the concert there were several new faces, some we hadn't seen for a long time. Among the new members were DICK MEAD who is a project engineer with Aircraft Service, and A. J. RIZZI. JOE HOLBACH was back with us after a consider­able lapse. 
Once again it is JACK LYNCH who Is ring­ing the bell. The Glee Club concert, with all the multitude of arrangements it entails, is al­most entirely his activity. He has done both the planning and the leg work, and our organi­zation owes him much. 
JACK LAVELLB, of N.T.C., renowned scout, drew a large audience when he showed pictures and lectured before the Traveler's .Men's Club recently. Newspaper publicity on the event in* eluded a picture of two of our members* both of whom are with the Travelers—BILL REID and FRANK AHEARN. 
TIM MURPHY had a most interesting report on his visit to the campus as a member of the Alumni Association Board of Directors-
We still have to go out of town to meet our classmates. Purely by chance we recently met NEIL FARRELL. BILL WHITMAN. MORRT FAIKHEAD. and JERRT FOLEY, all In a two-day visit to Memphis. Tenn. Maybe the reason we don't meet more of our classmates here in Connecticut is the very fact that we are so seldom at home In Connecticut. 
AL LAWTON 

Dallas 
The Dallas group was pleased to meet FA­THER SWEENET from the campus in Febru­ary, Fathers of present Notre Dame students and other outstanding Catholics in the Dallas-Fort Worth area were guests of the club at a dinner held in his honor. The club turn-out for the event was almost 100 per cent. Father Sweeney made a most favorable impression on everyone and his talk about Notre Dame, pres­ent and future, was inspiring. 
During his stay in Dallas, Father Sweeney w,is an honor guest at the Jesuit High Dad's Club annual football banquet. The highlights of Notre Dame was shown at this functjon. Father Sweeney's objective, namely, bringing the western clubs closer to Notre Dame, was 
.definitely accomplished. We hope he will return soon, CHARLES E. MEYER 
Defroif 
The club's annual retreat was a huge success with ART CRONIN and JOE BACH deserving a great deal of credit for leading 35 men, the largest retreat group In tlie club's history, to Manresa retreat house the first weekend in Lent. In doing so, they made good their prom­ise that, it the club were asigned a regular weekend exclusively, they could pack the house. 
On Feb. 20, the Board of Directors adopted, and a week later the membership formally ap­proved, a new set of by-laws that are more in conformity with the present plans ot the club and the aims of the Alumni Association. These should provide more interest and a resultant increase In activity by the members. Chairmen of the meeting were JOHN HIGGINS and ED BONET. 
Election of directors under the new by-laws were held on March 24 and the officers they elected from among themselves will be formal­ly inaugurated at a dinner on Universal Notre Dame Night- At the same time, the past-presi­dents of the club win bo honored and last years, president, NORM FREDERICKS, will be presented with a plaque. 
The Detroit Club Is out to become the most active alunmi club In the country and hereby serves notice on the others to keep their eyes peeled this way. 
ED RONET 

Oes Moines 
"We had the pleasure of seeing the Notre Dame football highlights film when FRANK lEAHY presented it before the Des Moines "Register and Tribune" carrier salesman party. We were invited to be guests at that meting. 
Two meetings of the Des Moines alumni have been held since the last "Alumnus" appeared. The purpose of both meetings, held Feb. 7 and Feb. 15> was to reorganize the club, which was Inactive during the war years. 
Plans were made for a luncheon meeting, to be held on the first Friday ot each month, and the next nightly meeting, to be held on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night, "April 14. Plans were also started for the annual Drake Relays Party, 
The officers elected for the year are JOSEPH 
F. "WHALEN, president; ROBERT J. TIER­NAN. vice-president and treasurer; and LOUIS 
F. KURTZ, secretary. I.OUIS F. KURTZ 
The Notre Dame Club of Dallas gothered in Februorr to greet Father Bobert H. Sweeney, C^.Cw from the campus. Two views of the gathering ore ahowa here. 
Grand Rapids & Western Michigan 
The club was honored with a visit by FA­THER JOHN MURPHY. C.S.C.. vice-president of the University. A luncheon was held in his honor and was well attended by the member­ship. 
A regular monthly meeting was held on Feb. 

13. The nominating committee gave its report of tlie election of officers for the coming year. The newly elected officers are: president, JO­SEPH F. DEEB; vice-president, in charge of activities. ROBERT X. ALT; secretarjs DON LEVANDOSKI; treasurer, JOSEPH BOYLAND. 
President Deeb appointed the following com­mittees: Membership and Finance: clialrn\an. JOSEPH BOYLAND: sub-chairmen. GEORGE JACKOBOICE, FRANK THRALL, DON LEV­ANDOSKI; committee members, FREDERICK GAST, PHILLIP FRITZ, EDWARD JIoDER-IIOTT, GEORGE BROGGER, JOHN ALT. JOSEPH MOORE, THOMAS ROACH, GERALD ROACH, JAMES DUTMERS, JOHN -mTHEY, RICHARD BBCHTOLD, ALFRED NACHTE­GALL, THOMAS CAMPBELL, JOHN PRATVD­ZIK, JAMES BOCKHEIM, FRANK GEARY", EDWARD BRENNAN, JOHN PULTE, GEORGE WEISS, ROBERT ALT, ROBERT WOOD­HOUSE, EDWARD DUNN. 
Committee on Charter and Constitution: chairman. ARNOLD R. LEVANDOSKI: ROB­ERT LINSBY, THOMAS ROACH, HARRY MERDZmSKI. 
Activities Committee: chairman, ROBERT N. ALT: FRANK THRALL, THOMAS CAMP­BELL JAMBS McDERMOTT, HENRY FOX. 
A special Membership and Finance Commit­tee meeting was held on Afarch S and a plan for contacting all possible members for the club was developed. 
The regular monthly meeting was held on March 13. President JOSEPH DEEB appointed ROBERT N. ALT chairman of the Universal Notre Dame Night program and it was decided tliat this event would be the official opening of the activities of the Grand Rapids Notre Dame Club. 

It was decided by a majority of the members present to change the club name to the Notre Dame Club of Grand Rapids and Western Mich­igan. 
DON LEVANDOSKI 

Houston 
CONROY SCOGGINS reportecl to the club at a meeting held at the Texas State Hotel, Dec. 17, in Houston, the proceedings of the club presidents* meeting at Notre Dame on Nov. 29­
30. REV. PHILIP S. MOORE, C-S.C, dean of the graduate school of the TJnix-ersity, was the principal speaker at this meeting-.. 
FATHER ROBERT SWEENEY, executive as­sistant to the president, addressed the club at the Feb. 22 meeting and made several other speaking appearances in the Houston area. 
Harrisburg 
The club held an informal re-organization meeting on Feb. 4, attencled by seven members. W'Q discussed Universal N.D. Night. On that occasion we plan to have a dinner meeting at the Harrisburger Hotel, at which we will elect officers and adopt a constitution. 
BOB KLAIBER 

fndfonopoffs 
The first meeting of the year was held on Jan. 14 at the K- of C. with a capacity attend­ance. Election of members to the Board of 
Directors was held, and the following were nominated and elected. For a three-year period. BHJj MOONET and AI. FEENET; two-year period. JOHN FORB and JOHN HARRING­TON; one-year period.' Al« 3(AHONET and WALTER ST0HI«DREHEB. 
- The following appointments were made by prexy PAT FISHER for the ensulnr year: Scholarship Fund, WALTER STUHXJ>REHER. SOKE.FOX and MIKE Z.ATDEN; Membership, JOHN C. O'CONNOR, chairman; Finance, JOHN A. WELCH, chairman; Butler Game. JOHN FORD, chairman; Religion and Citizen­ship. WALTER A- HOUPPERT, chairman; Job Counseling.' FRED L. MAHAFFET. chairman; Prep School Contacting. GEORGE BISCHOFF. chairman; Publicity and Public Relations, JERRT SHINE, chairman. 
The meeting terminated with the showing of the movies of the Tulane-Notre Dame game by BERNIE CRIMMINS. of the Athletic Stall. 
On Sunday evening. Feb. 2, the club enter­tained the current basketball team .by taking them to the Coliseum to see the professional hockey .game between Indianapolis and New Haven. Then on the following night, after the Butler-Notre Dame thriller, the team was taken out to FRANK LAUCK'S Wharf House for a snack and entertainment prior to their entrain­ing back to Notre Dame. 
The February meeting was again held at the 
K. of C . with PRANK M. DOUTHITT as chairman- FATHER JOHN liTNCH, as.a , gave a very entertaining talk on the inception of the "Family Theatre Hour" and its originat­or, FATHER PAT PEYTON. C,S.C. The color movies. "The Story of Notre Dame," and the football Highlights of 1946 were shown. 
We are bavinf our weekly luncheona again each Tuesday on' the second floor of the Canary cotta'ge. Any Notre Damer visiting In­dianapolis on Tuesdays is cordially invited to attend these luncheons. It is a swell opportun­ity to bump into some of the old gang that you haven't seen in years. Jnst ask HABRT STUHLDREHER, who was our guest In Feb­ruary. Harry was down from Madison to speak before the local Wisconsin alumni club. 
NICK CONNOR 

Kansas City 
The club held a dinner on Feb. 4 at the roof garden of the Aladdin Hotel, the occasion being a visit to Kansas City by FATHER SWEENEY from the campus. Approximately 90 alumni and wives and parents of Notre Dame students were in attendance* Father Sweeney brought along some very fine movies made at the University which were thoroughly enjoyed by all. 
Father Sweeney spent six days with us here helping to reorganize and reactivate the local club. His visit was a shot In the arm and we hope that he will be able to return again at least annually. His visit was a tremendous good will builder for the University here in Kansas City. 
The Rockne Club under the sponsorship of DR. NIGKO held its annual dinner on March 4 at the Union Station Pine Room in memory of the late KNUTE ROCKNE. Approximately 150 people attended the dinner. MOON MUL­LINS acted as toastmaster and BERNIE CRI3IMINS came down from school to show the "Highlights of 1946." as well as to bring us up to date on the 1947 prospects. Other speakers on the program were ex-N.D.ers JACK HAYES. SAM RICHARDS, ROME DUG­AN and Dr. Berry (Rockne's secretary). Also, Paul Christman. U. of Missouri AIl-American. was a guest speaker. 
TOM REARDON 

Kenfucky 
On Feb. 22. a luncheon was held at the Brown Hotel for FATHER ROBERT SHEE> HAN, C.S.C., head of the Department of Biol­ogy, and DR. LAWRENCE BAU^INGER. dean of the College of Science. There were approxi-. mately 25 present. 
On March 2, we had a Commnnlon-brcakfast at St. Mary Magdalen's Church. Vve had a turnout of about 25. with 18 showing up after­wards for breakfast at the Brown Hotel. 
Feb. 1, Notre Dame played Kentucky here in basketball. We had a luncheon at the Ken­tucky Hotel lor the team before the game. After the game, there was a dance at the Henry Clay Hotel, where the team and the club members were entertained. 
Our bowling continued successfully for six 

months. And the club is arranging the annual 
retreat at Gethsemani, Bardstown, Ky., the 
weekend of the 24th of May. "We expect to 
have about 20 members attending. 
PATJL T.A.FEL.. JR. 

Los Angeles 
Belying the reports emanating from various 

parts of the countrj-, tlie Notre Dame Club of 
Los Angeles has enjoyed an active time, com-
m.eucing the evening of March 5 with a meet­
ing of the reorganizing committee of the club 
with FATHER SWEENEY from the campus. 
The meeting was held in a dining room at the 
Jonathan Club here in I-os Angeles and was 
hosted by ED CUNNINGHAM. From Father 
Sweeney's remarks it was evident that reports 
had reached South Bend that we were all dead. 
On March 10 with T. B. COSGROVE, lay trustee, as host, a reception and dinner was held at the California Club, at which Mr. Cos­^ove had as guests, owners and publishers of se\'eral local newspapers, bank presidents and other officers, a representative jurist from the Supreme Court, the District Court of Appeal, and other courts. Since this was a meeting so that Father Cavanaugh might be present­ed to the more leading citizens who had not attended Notre Dame, there were only four representatives of the local Notre Dame Club present-
However, after the dinner an overflow meet­ing, with standing room only, of some 500, was had, at which moving pictures in color, depict­ing scenes both on the campus and in class­rooms, were shown. In addition to this film we were privileged to see a film showing the high­lights and scoring plaj-s of all the games played by Notre Dame in the 1946 season. BILL CORR, '32, ofliicated as projectionist,, and FATHER SWEENEY, '30, as commentator. We had as our guests substantially all the parents of the 65 boys from Los Angeles who are now attend­ing Notre Dame, as well as members of the Notre Dame Club. Also present in considerable number was a healthy contingent of local high school boys. 
The big meeting for FATHER j'OHN CAVA­NAUGH, '23, was held on March H, at which. by actual count, 198 members of the club, all former students or graduates were pres­ent. In addition, some 50 guests, including a number of fathers of students, past and pres­ent, were privileged to hear FATHER CAVA­NAUGH and FATHER SWEENEY talk on Notre Dame benefits and present activities, academic and athletic (It is interesting to note that every class was represented from 1915 up to and includiner 1946. In addition, we had graduates of 1894 and 1898. 1903. 1905. 1911 and 1912). HARRY FI.ANNBRY, '23, noted radio commentator, was the third principal speaker. HENRY DOCKWEILER. *12, was toastmaster. 
TOM ASHE was chairman of the meeting, and the effect of the efforts of his committee, consisting of GENE CALHOUN. ED CUNNING­HAM. TOM FOYE. BOB HUETHER. FRANK CAT'fE, PAT VAVARETTA. BILL CORR, JOHN McARDLE, VINCE PROBST, VERNE RICK­ARD. LOUIS BERARDL LEO WARD. ED ENGLAND and ED ASHE, was noticeable in the representative gathering. 
ED CUNNINGHAM, LOUIS BERARDL JOHN "JUDGE" CARBERRY and GENE CALHOUN arranged a visit for FATHER SWEENEY with Bing Crosby and Bob Hope at the studio. 
Thanks to the ingenuity of our committee secretary, GENE CALHOUN, we are bringing otur membership list up to date. Gene is assist­ant to the manager of Fred ~*Snite's Local Loan. By pressing into service their "skip tracer" department we have at the present time verified 40S names and addresses of mem­bers In Southern California, by either speaking to them directly or contacting some member of their immediate family at their residence. There are approximately 250 additional names on our list which are being checked. Since the war a-great number of the boys have changed ad­dresses and it is necessary to verify personally each address. 
We were favored with a visit from one of the alumni directors, DAN HALPIN, Dan was here in Los Angeles for a week arranging for the television show. 
Our perennial secretary, MIKE SHANNON, 

did lots of work on the telephone to promote 
our affairs. Mike returned home from the hos­
pital, where he had been fiat on his back for 
so long, but he still doesn't have the strength 
to be about. Tliat didn't deter him from ar­
ranging publicity, both for the meetings and 
for the visits of FATHER CAVANAUGH and 
FATHER SWEENEY. Mike's energy and Ideas 
are boundless. 
LEO B. WARD 

Memphis 
Our club has had no formal meetings since last publication, but has plans in the mill for a Universal N-D. Night dinner. 
Here are notes on some of our Memphis grads and their current operations. FRED BAUER is doing a grand job with Bauer's Inc., auto­motive parts distributors. JOE CANALE, law grad of N.D. and for several years an FBI man, is back in Memphis and still "detecting." His brother, T. A. CANALB, is with the big Union Planters Bank of Memphis—both mar­ried, etc. 
A. B. LUCKETT, from Canton, Miss., Is a Menjphian now and is an executive in the new­ly formed Squirt Bottling Co. STUKLA CA­NALE is living the life a gentleman farmer in Tennessee, and seems to thrive on it. BILL FAT is a big business man,—Fay Equipment Co., distributing Buda diesel engines. 
Our genial club president, FRANK HOW­LAND, general agent, Massachusetts Life In­surance Co., celebrated his 20th anniversary with the company on March 16. Congratula­tions, Frank. 
DONNELL McCORMACK. lumberman, lately celebrated his first six months of married life. JIM WELSH and LARRY THOMPSON, JR., have started a new business—construction of pre-fab garages. And GALVIN HUDSON still takes as much interest In N.D. affairs as he does in his Internationally known cooperage business. 
NEIL FARRELL 

Milwaukee 
The 16th anniversary of the death of KNUTE ROCKNE was commemorated by club members at a Communion-breakfast on March 30. The locale was the St. Charles Boys Home, conduct­ed by the Brothers of Holy Cross, under the direction of BROTHER LAWTIENCB, C.S.C.* and the superiorship of BROTHER HILARION, 
C.S.C. FATHER GEORGE J. WELSH C.S.C. was the celebrant of the recitative Mass and the moderator of the roundtable discussion which followed the ham and egg breakfast prepared and served by the boys of the home. The dis­cussion centered around the functions proposed for club Religion and Citizenship committees as outlined by the Alumni Association at the last Club president's meeting. 
We were Elad to see, among the attendants at the general meeting of March 4, several new­comers, returned service men and old-timers who were unable to attend any club functions for some time, such as CARROLL STALBY, 
•33.
 STEVE EODOVINAC, '38, JIM SIDDALL, 

•36,
 JOHN UNNEHAN, '40, ED MAKARE­WICZ, '40, PHIL JOHNSON, '41. BILL SCHAL­LER. '41, DICK McMAHON. '41, JOHN STAU­BER, '42, JIM KARR. '40, and BOB WELCH, '47. 


The following offered their services on the various conunlttecs: Membership Committee: GEORGE D. PRENTICE, JR., and JIM KARR, ^ JR.; Program Committee: DICK O'MELIA, BILL SCHALLER- and JOHN STAUBER; Prep School Contacting Committee: LESTER C. SENTZ. 
The club wishes to extend its welcome and best wishes for success to its most recent members, the graduates of January 1947: BOB CUNNINGHAM. JOHN FORSTER. ROLAND STEINLE and BOB WELCH. 
At the time of wriltng this colum.n, EARL 
J. O'BRIEN was the outstanding candidate for the ofilce of judge of the Civil Court, Branch 4„ of Milwaukee. CHARLES A. O'NEILL was recently elected vice-president of the Wiscon­sin State Association for the Prevention of Al­coholism. 
Dr. BRIAN C. JIcLAUGHLTN Is now doing private practice and lias recently opened bis of­fice on No. Downer and Capitol Drive. Attorney JOHN M. CAVEY is now ser\-ing as the repre­sentative of Milwaukee's First District on the State Legislature, to which post he was elected in January of this year. 
The club is proud, as Is the University, of one of its members—^JOHN P. WAGNER, '11,— for his generous contribution to Notre Dame, ^ which ' made the Milwaukee district's amount ^ compare favorably with alumni contributions In areas with larger memberships. 
EMERY MARTIN and brothers have enthusi­
astically agreed to organize the University of 
Notre Dame Club of Fond du Lac. This new 
addition to the family of alunmi clubs has our 
best wishes and our assurance of any assistance 
when they wish to call on us. 
TOM DIXON 

Menongoftefo Volley 
The club elected ofiicers for the coming year —to wit: ED DEAN, '28. president; JIM RUS­SELL. '29, vice-president; JiM DEVLIN, '32, secretary; A. V. CAPANO, '26. treasurer. These ofiicers will take over their new duties on Universal Notre Dame Night. Except for Devlin, the ofiicers are continuing In the same capacity as last year. 
We are planning a delayed Memorial Mass and breakfast for KNUTE ROCKNE on April 
20. We are taking Initial steps for a big reli­gions gathering in the area for early summer. 
We have about 10 active members, and our monthly meetings are full of the old pep and ^ J ginger. We are planning to go out and drag ^ ^ in other N.D. men from towns within a radius of 50 miles or so. There's a bunch of them* 
Newsy notes: JIM DEVLIN moved to our neck of the woods last summer and is an active member. A. VINCE CAPANO was successful in his campaign for election to the Pennsyl­vania State Assembly. LOU APONE said he wanted twin boys, so his wife gave him twin girls in early December. Yours truly, of course, is the father of the finest baby girl in Christen­dom—^but of last May. I mention It now In case there might be some one who doesn't know. BOB WOODS has taken a job as sports editor of the Monessen dally paper. 
GEORGE MARTINET 

Montana 
A nine-man board of directors to guide ac­tivities of the club was selected at a meeting on Feb. 3, In JUDGE T. E. DOWNEY'S court­rooms, Butte. 
The directors include: DR. R. C. MONA­HAN, R. B. CUMMINS, and JOB MARONICK for three-year terms; GENE FEHUtG, ED SIMONICH. and REV. RUSSELL SCHEIDLER for two-year terms; and ROY MURRAY, JR., CLARK VOLBERDING, and EMMETT LYONS C ) for one-year terms. A new constitution was also ^ ^ adopted. 
Ofiicers are: ED SIMONICH. president; HUGH O'KEBFE, secretary; and J. P. O'DON­NELL, treasurer. 
i^ New Jersey 
At our latest meeting, GEORGB MELINKO­VICH and PHIL HEINLE were appointed co-chairmen of N. J. Universal N.D. Nigbt. 
President MILBAUBR Is preparing a club di­rectory -which he expects to publish in the near future. 
An entertainment committee has been select­ed and will arrange programs for each meeting. 
FATHER JIM DONNELLY, New Jersey's gift to the C-S.C's, wrote thanking us for his or­dination gift. Father Jim Is assigned to the Mexican Missions. "We wish him the best of# luck in his first assignment. 
PETE BELMONT, a recent graduate, thanked the New Jersey alumni club for the cooperation it has given the New Jersey campus club. 
CUPP TALLMAN and PETE BELMONT were appointed co-chairmen of bur yearly sum­mer affair "Day at the Shore." 
The meeting was closed with the showing of the picture "Hail Notre Dame." The picture^ was very well received and we plan to have similar entertainment at future meetings. 
CLIFF TALLMAN Is now In the oil burner business In Jersey City. PAUL MORRISON is no longer in New Jersey- He is residing In Washington, D. C. JOB SCHILLINa and TOM TRACT are manufacturing representatives In New York and New Jersey. GEORGE and Kay PLAIN have announced the arrival of a son, Robert Steven. JACK DEVINS and TOM GOR­MAN are working for duPont In Arlington. FRANK RUGGIERO Is coaching at St- Mary's in Rutherford. 
JOB McKEON 

NewrorkCify 
At our meeting on Feb. 11 at the "Waldorf, TIERNEY O'ROURKE took over the admlnls­
' tratlon of the club as Its new president and announced the formation of all of our commit­tees for the coming year. 
At the March meeting. FATHER LOUIS KBLLKY, assistant superior general cf the Holy Cross Order, who is our new club chap­lain, attended the meeting with FATHER JOHN WILSON, who talked to the general membership about his activities In connection with securing vocations to the Holy Cross Order. A number of the club members volun­teered to assist Father Wilson in his Impor­
^ tant work. Father Kelley praised highly the 
9 activities of the club. Harvey Stone, well-known New York enter­tainer and radio celebrity, was given a Notre Dame blanket as a token of the club's appre­ciation for his help in connection with his pre-Army game rallies during the past few yeara It was presented to him by TIERNBY O'ROURKE. 
Our edition of our local "New York Alum­nus" Is Improving with age under the guidance of its editor, JIM CAWLEY. Jim Is still look­ing for assistance In connection with prepara­tion of this monthly bulletin. Any members In­terested in helping can contact the secretary, who will be glad to pass the Information along to Jim. 
We were delighted to learn that FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH will be with us at our membership meeting on May 21 at the Wal­dorf. We think that Father Cavanaugh will see one of the biggest turnouts in the history of the club. 
Our drive for dues Is progressing very well under the leadership of ED BBCKMAN and MABTIN CALLAGY. As this ia written, we have about 200 members who have paid dues for the year 1947, and we are well ahead of last year. 
JOHN A. HOYT, JR. 

9 Oftio VoHey 
Reorsanlzatlon of the Wheeling Club as the Notre Dame club of the Ohio Valley has start­ed. Plans were under way to meet In Wheeling, 
W. Va., on Universal Notre Dame Night, April 14. 
ED SARGUS, president of the club, is work­ing with FRANK WALLACE, vice-president of the Alumni Association, in the reorganization of the group. Both are from Bellaire, O. One of the club members is BISHOP JOHN K. MUSSIO, M.A. "25, bishop of Steubenville, O. 
Philadelphia 
At our February meeting DAN HALPIN and HAL DUKE gave a report on the activities dur­ing the Alumni Board meeting held on the campus in January. We were very glad to have our hopes confirmed by the news that next year the 25th anniversary of Universal Notre Dame Night will be right here in the home of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
The election of members to the board of gov­ernors highlighted the meeting. Under our new constitution five are to serve for two years and five for one year terms. The board will name the president, vice-president, secretary and terasurer of the club. Those elected include: Two-year terms, DAN HALPIN, CLIFF PBOD­EHL, JOHN NEESON, HAL DUKE and BUD DUDLEY. One-year terms: JOE CATTIE. CHARLIE CONLEY, WALT RIDLEY, DR. ED LYONS and CHARLIE ROGERS. 
LOU ALAMAN is bound for Mexico City to work for the Worthington Pump Co. Lou hopes to get the N.D. Club going down there and should be the right man for the job. We will miss him here. 
At a meeting of the new board the following officers were chosen: president, CHARLES CON­LEY; vice-president, CHARLES McKINNBY; secretary. JACK RIDLEY; assistant secretary, BOB TUSON; and treasurer, JOE MAHONEY. 
PAUL TOLAND 

PAoeiiiXt Arizona 
Sunday, March 2, the club had a Communion Mass said by FATHER ROBERT SWEENEY. C.S.C., in memory of KNTJTE ROCKNE. After Mass, the club went to a local hotel for break­fast. 
Tlie evening of the same day, FATHER SWEENEY, President REGIS FALLON, JOHN JOYCE, BILL MAHONEY, LES HEGELE, Ed Boherty, head coach of Arizona State College near Phoenix, and Bill Qninn, assistant to Ed Doherty, were guests of A. F. Uorlarty tor a buffet supper at Jokake Inn. Plans were dis­cussed for inviting the N.D. football team to make this a stop en route to TJ.S.C. next fall. 
Monday evening, March 3, the club had a dinner at Hotel Adams, Phoenix, In honor of FATHER SWEENEY. Father Sweeney gave on Interesting talk on Notre Dame. Following the dinner, the clnb met with members of St. Mary's High School Dads Clnb and friends (total 300 people) to view the Notre Sams campus fllm and a film of the highlights of the 1946 football season. 
JOHN P. JOYCE 

Perff and. Ore. 
On Feb. 13. the club held Its first regular meeting since the war at the Multnomah Hotel in Portland. A good number of the alumni In this area turned out. 
After a fine dinner, the meeting was called to order by DR. RALPH PRAG. president. FATHER GOODALL. C.S.C., from Portland ITnlversity, gave a very good outline of the plans for. reactivating the club and also the alms of future meetings. BARNEY 3U.CNAB, who was at Notre Dame for the .meetings of the various club presidents last November, gave a very interesting discussion of the activ­ities at this meeting. . In addition,' BILI* SCHMITT told of some of his trips back to Notre Dame. Plans were discussed for the Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. 
FRED U CDNNINGHAU 

RocAesfer, N. Y. 
On Feb. 22. 50 members of the Rochester Club braved a blizzard to go up to Buffalo to see the Notre Dame-Canislus basketball game* FRANK CONNELLY was being congratulated on another member to his family. 
Club plans (after IT.N.D. Night) include ft retreat on May 23-25 at the Retreat House In Geneva, N. Y. BILL BELIi has been named chairman of this activity and his assistants are JIM GLEASON and FRANK COLLINS. ' 
DON SCONFIETTl 

Phoenix, Aiiz„ wecomed Father Robert H. Sweeney. CLS.C. ia Mdreb with a dianec arranged by the local Notre Dame dub. headed by Begia FaOoB. Johs Jsyee. aeore­tory of the club, identifies for yon the atleadanla at the dinner (reading dodcwiie from left): Theodore I. Lemer. '12. MoHhew E. Ihiddle. '17, Bobert D. XendcdL '31. lohn 
P. Joyce. '40. Lester C Hegele. '28. Vb. Hess, Ed Byon. BU Ibyee, '40. Bill Qniaa (in lor comer). Tom CMalley. '39. Ed Doherty, Father Sweeney. Father Little. Begis Fallen, '24. lohn W. Dehner. '31. Austin T. Dewnea. IS . E. I. BIkeft '22, JU TUka. '33, Mr. Sulliran. Lou Giragi '38. John OlKalley. '38. Dr. John Fabrmdeti '41. 
St. Louis 
FATHER ROBERT SWEENEY, CS-C, visit­ed St. Louis early in February, his first stop on his tour of alumni clubs. He attended our Board of Directors meeting and a dinner meet­ing held in his honor, at which time we pre­sented him with a check for $1,500 to be ap­plied toward our scholarship fund. 
We would like to congratulate FATHER CAVANAtJGH on his selection of FATHER SWEENEY for liaison work between the Uni­versity and the alumni clubs. We feel he will do a splendid job. 
At the same meeting BOB HELLRTING who, we arc proud to saj*, is national vice-president of the Alumni Association, gave a review of the alumni, plans for the year. 
On March 10 FRANK LEAHY presented the 
Rockne Trophy to the outstanding high school 
football team in the St. Louis area. This is 
the seventh year that we have given this tro­
phy and it is the most coveted trophy of the 
region. Alumni from Peoria, Decatur, and 
Salem, 111-, came to this event-
JOHN J. GRIFFIN, JR. 
Scronfon 
ED PHILBIN reported on the reorganization of the club, held on Jan. 2-1. Temporarj- offi­cers elected were: president, JAMES JORDAN; secretary, EDMUND PHILBIN; and treasurer, JOE MANNING. A committee was appointed to m^eet with a group from the proposed Wilkes-Barrc club. 
Tlifc next meeting saw the election of per­manent officers. LOUIS J- FINSKE replaced JIM JORDAN as president, MIKE COitER-FORD was added as vice-president and the other two officers remained the same. Wilkes-Barre, it ivas discovered in the committee re­port, wished two independent clubs, and not a joint club as proposed. Wilkes-Barre and Scran­ton Notre Dame men will, however, join in ol>­servlng Universal Notr© Dame Night on April 14. 
Tucson 
The club welcomed FATHER ROBERT SWEENEY of Notre Dame at an informal luncheon on March 3. TED WITZ, president, presided. REGIS FALLON, president of the Notre Dame club of Phoenix, accompanied Father Sweeney from that city. Father Sweeney showed the club two films on Notre Dame and followed this with a short talk about the TJnl* versify. 
We were pleased to have with us two visiting alumni, JOHN HETVAEET and EARL ZERBE. both of South Bend, who were visiting here dur­ing the winter season. Also attending were TOM BLAIR, DR. LOU CENNI, JIM MURPHY. PAUL DUFAUD and STEVE SCHNEIDER. CHRIS REILLY was called out of town less than an hour before the aifatr. 
PAUL DUFAUD 
Toledo 
The club elected officers at a meeting In the Commodore Perry Hotel, Feb. 25. ROBERT SCHRAMM was elected president, JACK MA­r/JNE, vice-president, KARI, STRING, treas­urer, and ROBERT MITHEN, secretary. The new Board of Governors includes the retiring president, BERNARD ENGLISH. JOSEPH TIIJLMAN, B. G. KESTING. LOUIS tlRBAN-SKI and HAROLD MTJXGER. 
Twin Cities 
Though the cluh didn*t function oflxcially be­tween the Christmas Ball and Universal Notre Dame Night, there was no dearth of N.D. faces about. For instance, at the luncheon in St. Paul, Feb. 28, honoring Cardinal von Preyslng^ Arch­bishop of Berlin, we talked with BOB TEGE­DER; observed JACK DOYLE. LOU REGAN balling out their Disneys;' spun through a re­volving a«or with TOM HART. 
"We were pleased with. ED THODE'S ap­pearance as a spotlight alumnus. St. Paulites in general and Notre Dame alumni In particu­lar are welcoming the return of PAUL CAST­NER, '23. Paul is general agent for K. of C. insurance in this Twin City and environs. 

FRANK ASIATO is with International Har­vester in St. Paul. Toward ilinncapolis on the. same university avenue is JOHN FAHEY of Fruehauf Trailer Co. John has two boys and one girl. During ofC-duty hours we met JERRT CONWAY (no, he's not married) who publi­cizes for the Radisson Hotel. 
Our upper midwest thumbnail sketch and Land-of-the-sky—blue-water-beam feature s JAMES J. O'HARA, Ml. Jim. nephew of BISH­OP JOHN O'HARA of Buffalo, resides in the saintly city and works as assistant to the treasurer of the F. I. Products Company. He is the only alumnus, or citizen for that matter, we know, who acquired both a knowledge of Russian and a Purple Heart while wearing CD's in "W.W. II. Jim, in the ASTP Program at the University of Pennsylvania, was fast calling everyone comrade when he was hustled into the Infantrj' and a chance to meet the Russians halfway In Germany, as one^half of a bazooka team. Jim, after being wounded, con­valesced in England. He still gets mail from there 'tis said. 
GENE DeLAY 

Woshingf on, D. C. 
On Feb. 17, the club gathered In the Carlton Hotel to hear ELMER RIPLEY, basketball coach at Georgetown University, speak on his experiences at Notre Dame in 1945-46. Reports were given by the nominating committee; by the committee on the constitutions; and by the dance committee. Plans were also announced regard'ng the forthcoming issue of the local directory. 
Members of the club were urged to attend a Communion breakfast on Mar. 16 at Dumbarton college in memory of KNUTE ROCKNE. 
Waterbury 
JOE ROBINSON and FRANK MURNANE on March 4 effected a reorganization of the Notre Dame men in and near Waterbury. A group of 32 attended an informal get-together in the Knights of Columbus c*ub In Waterbury. Plans were formulated for observance of Universal Notre Dame Night, April 14. 
Western Pennsylvania 
On Feb. 28, we were host to FATHER JOHN MURPHY, vice-president of the •University, at a buffet supper in the Rose>Room of the Fort Pitt Hotel. Father Murphy outlined immediate plans and aims of the University, and. In an open forum which followed bis talk, answered many' questions about academic and athletic policy. ­
A hishlight of the party was a movie of the "Outstanding Plays of the 1946 Football Sea­son" and another of the Notre Dame-Iowa game. There were a number of father and son combinations: Mr. Totten accompanied sons CHARLIE and JOE; Mr. O'Brien with son TOM: Mr. Christen with JOE, JR., and BOB HAGAN went the others one better by show­ing up with his dad and his father-in-law. Among the others in attejidance were FATHER VINCE BRENNAN. JIM DEVLIN. JUDGE 
•HUGH BOYLE, GEORGE lUNGSLEY, JOHN McMAHON. TOJt POWERS, FRITZ WILSON, JOHN HICKBY, BOB FULTON, JOHN PATTERSON, BUCK McARDLE, JOE O'ROURKE. BILL SUEHR, REGIS LAVELLE, DR. DICK, LARRY and BILL O'TOOLE. RUDY CRNKOVIC, ED HUFF, SAM WEST, VIN SWEENEY, LEO VOGEL, GEajE and PAT COYNE, JACK EDWARDS, EARL BRBIGBR. JOHN BRILEY. JOHN RIORDAN, JACK BRODEBICK, JOHN HOFFMAN, FRITZ NA­GEL. JOHNNY HOMAN, BOB KVATSAK, DAN CULLINAN, JOHN GUTOWSKI and Fa­ther Biller, who dropped in to see his old friend Father Murphy. Out of towncrs included JOHN MURRIN, BILL and CHARLIE DIL­LON and BILL ROCKENSTEIN from Butler; the Mon Valley Club was represented by CHAR­LIE MONTGOMERY and JIM DEVLIN. 
LEO "BUCKY" O'NEILL was at the party. He is now the father of three children and is maKing his mark in the auto finance business. 
JOHNNY O'BRIEN, end on late -thirty teams, returned to the city after completing a post­graduate course at the Han*ard . Business School. 
X. D. men are still being mustered out of service. The latest to receive the most treas­ured of all military orders is DR. GEORGE P. CAMPBELL, who set up his practice at 212 9th St. Monaca, Pa. 
JOE CLARK is taking some post-graduate courses in foreign service at Georgetown Uni­versity. 
The engagement of Miss Dorothy Wagner to JOHNNY HOMAN, transplanted Erie Notre Damer who has become a pillar of the local organization, was announced recently. 
The club extends its condolences to D. M. "TURK" MEINERT and his family on the re­cent death of his mother. Our sympathies also to JOHN PATTERSON on the recent loss of his father. The Class of 1941 will remember John's dad for the excellent job of pinchhitting he did as class secretary while John was In the service. 
HUGO lACOVBTTI 
(Clubs continued on page 39) 

Youll read neoiby about the.annaal leiieal «poniored recently by the Notre Dame. Club of Western Pennsylrania. Hem or* the dob nmiebers who attended, talong­'With the Possionists who conducted the exercises. 
Volume 25, No. 2, April, 1947 

his present job. He and his wife have 
FOR GOD, COUNTRY. NOTRE DAME two sons and a daughter, Alfred C, Jr., 
Michael and Mary Susan. 
IN GLORY EVERLASTING 
Bom in Mankato, Minn., Al spent his 
LT. WILLIAM J. DOLAN, '38, Catlin, HI., was officially listed as killed in ac­tion on Dec. 21, 1944, in Belgium, after 
being listed as miss­ing in action for several months. He was with the 28th Infantry Division at the time of his death. 
Entering the serv­ice in October, 1941, Bill received his ba­sic training at Camp Wolters, Texas, and 

^ Bill Dolan advanced schooling at Camp Koberts, Calif., prior to entering Officers Candidate School at Ft. Benning, Ga. After receiving his commission he was stationed at Camp Adair, Ore., and Ft. Leonard Wood, Mo., before being ••sent overseas. His widow, Mrs. Gwendolyn Dolan, Danville, HI., was presented with the Purple Heart, awarded posthumously to her husband. Bill is also survived by a daughter, Judith Ann, his parents, and a sister, all of Catlin. 
LT. CMDR. PAUL F, NAGLE, ex. '22, New York City, a naval aviator, was lost in the Pacific on Oct. 12, 1945. He was on a routine flight around the Island of Oahn, T. H., when he, with two crewmen, set out for the scene of a B-24 

^ crash, 85 miles south of the island. He was never seen or heard from again, de­spite an intensive search. 
Paul entered the Navy as a lieutenant in October, 1942. After assignments in­volving administrative work at two East Coast air stations, he requested flight tiaining. Completing special flight courses at Corpus Christi, Texas, he was, in April, 1944, transferred to the Hawai­ian area and in 1945 was made officer­in-charge of the air-sea rescue activity based at Kaneohe, Oahu. 

Paul entered the employ of the New York Telephone Company in 1923, fol­lowing his graduation from the Univer­sitj,' of Iowa", and rose to the position of district manager before he was trans­ferred to the American Telephone and Telegraph Company in 1927. He was on leave from the latter company for serv­ice in the Navy. 
FRANK N. LEONARD, '35, Chicago, 33-year-old veteran of World War II, died in Hines, 111,, Veterans' Hospital on March 9. . 
Frank had been ill for about three years. He entered the service in No­vember, 1943, and after about a month in the service contacted pneumonia. He later developed a fever of undetermined origin from which he finally succumbed. Sixty specialists were unable to deter­mine the nature of his illness. 

Frank was a member of the Knights of Columbus, American Legion and Holy Name Society. 
He is survived by his widow, two daughters, his mother and a brother. 
S
POTLIGHT ALUMNI 
A LFRED C. RYAN, '20, well known to 

many alumni for his accomplish­ments at Notre Dame as the first lay alumni secretry, first editor of the ALUMNUS, and business manager of ath­letics in the early '20's, is now general manager of the Houde Eng^ineering Divi­sion of the Houdaille-Hershey Corpora­tion, Buffalo, N. Y., manufacturer of shock absorbers. He has, with outstand­ing success, been running this orgraniza­tion of 2,200 people since 1943. 
When Al left Notre Dame in 1926 he joined the staff of the Universal Credit Company, Detroit, remaining there until 1942. After war work in Washington, 
D. C, as assistant to the vice^hairman in charge of operations of the War Pro­duction Board, he returned to Detroit briefly before going on to Buffalo and 
Alfred C. Byon. '20 

early years in Arizona, where he won a state championship in shorthand at the age of 14 and where he spent a year at the University of Arizona. At Notre Dame he became president of the first college chamber of commerce in the country, organized by Father (now Bishop) John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, first dean of the College of Commerce. Re­turning to Notre Dame not long after his graduation, he served in the endow­ment drive of 1922, as well as in his other capacities, and was one of the late Knute Rockne's closest associates. 
JOHN S. McKIERNAN, '34, Provi­dence, was elected lieutenant gfover­nor of Rhode Island last November. After his graduation, cum laude, from Notre Dame in 1934, John received his 
LL.B. from the Boston University Law School in 1937. In November, 1937, he was admitted to the bar and became as­sociated with the law firm of McKieman, McElroy and Going in Providence. He is still a member of this firm. 
John & McEaman. '34 

In 1941, John became a roving clerk for the General Assembly and also was appointed legral adviser to the Civil Ser­vice Commission, for the purpose of drafting a proposed civil service law for the city of Providence. Appointed" a member of the Fair Rents Committee for his city in 1942, he was elected its chair­man by the committee. In May, 1942, he was appointed.first assistant city so­licitor in Providence, serving in that office until his induction into the Army in June, 1943. . Discharged from the Army in March of 1946, John continued as.'fiist assistant'city solicitor until his election as lieutenant governor. 
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Gertrude Ingll and ANDREW K. FORTHMANN, ex. '32. Miss Mary CatberiDe Bj-rne and WILLIAM E. BtJBNGER, '41. Miss Margaret Frances Shea and JOSEPH F. GALL, '44. Miss Faye Heslin and CLATTOX J. TODDY. •4". 
Marriages 
Miss Mareuerlte Armstrong and FRANCIS 

E. QUISH. "11, Feb. 22, Notre Dame. Miss Lorraine I. Carroll and J. HAROLD RODDT, '33, Oct. 26, Washington, D. C. Miss Mildred Zvier and PAUL E. RUBLT, '36, Feb. 2, Arcadia, Calif. 
Miss Jane Cahili and JOSEPH T. DORGAN, '37, Jan. 30, Notre Dame. Jane's father is James 
F. Cahili, '14, and her brother is James F., Jr., '43. John W. Dorgan, '29, brother of the bride­groom, was best man. 
Miss Doris Ann Rehm and VINCENT HART­NETT, '37, Feb. 3. Miss Marcelle Desne and EDMUND P. BAKT­NETT, '38, Jan. 26, New Bochelle, N. T. Mary McSherry O'Connell and THOMAS P. MARKER, '40, Feb. 1, South Bend. Miss Patricia O'Connell and JOSEPH G. SMALLEY, '40, New Torlc City. Miss Mary M. Wilson and JOSEPH W. KNOTT. '42, Nov. 30, Bridgeport, Conn. Miss Ruth L. Schacfer and WILLIAM T. SNYDER, '42, Jan. 25, Norwood, Hi. Miss Mary Jane Moran and WILLIAM C. STURBITTS, '42, Feb. 14, Baltimore, Md. Miss Marian Leech and JAJIBS J, WHITE, ex. '45, Feb. 8, Edgewater, N. J. Miss Rita Marie Fralick and DONALD J. MACDONELL, ex. '4G, Aug. 14, Detroit, Mich. Miss Rosciyn Marie Shambach and HENRY 
F. HEKKER, ex. '47, Nov. 16, South Orange, 
N. J. 
Miss Patricia Ann Cameron and JOHN J. Mc-HALE, '47, Feb. 15, Notre Dame. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. CLARENCE J. KLINE, '21, an­nounce the birth of a son. Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE J. STEURLE, ex. '25, announce the birth of a son, Dec. 22. Dr. and Mrs. CHARLES E. GUTH, ex. '25. announce the birth of a daughter, Dec 26. Mr. and Mrs. FRED J. CLEMENTS, '26, an­nounce the birth of Samuel Thomas, Mar. 13. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT T. HELLRUNG, '30, announce the birth of Donald Eugene, Feb. 9. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS E. BULLEIT, ex. "31, announce the birth of a daughter, Feb. 13. Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES A. CONLEY, '33, announce the birth of Mary Helen, Jan. 27. Mr. and Mrs. WALTER F. SLOAN, ex. '33. announce the birth of a daughter, Dec 20. Mr. and Mrs. J. BENJAMIN BBYRER, "35, announce the birth of John Timothy, Feb. 17. Mr. and Mrs. HARRY A- BALDWIN, '37, an­nounce the birth of Harry A., Jr., Feb. 11. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL FOLEY, '37, announce the birth of Peter Michael, Feb. 10. Mr. and Mrs. PATRICK J. CAREY, '38, an­nounce the birth of Kathleen, Mar. 3. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT F. SCHIRP, '39, an­nounce the birth of Christine Louise, Feb. 15: 
Mr. and Mrs. PATRICK J. BANNON, '40, 

announce tlie birth of Kathleen. 
Mr. and Mrs. CECIL E. JORDAN, '40, an­

nounce the birth of Michael Edward, Dec 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. PHILIP J. SANDMAIER, JR., 

'40, announce the birth of Donna Marie, Dec. 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH L. BUCKLER, '41, 

announce the birth of Judith Ann, Jan. 31. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS B. KENNEDY, JR., '41. announce the birth of Francis Broadway III, Jan. 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. RICHARD KERRIGAN, '41, 

announce the birth of Richard J., Nov. 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD A. SHEVLAND, '41, 

announce the birth of Mark, Jan. 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. UGO D. ROSSI, '42, announce 

the birth of Laurence Ugo, Feb. 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE G. THOMPSON, '42, 
announce the birth of Virginia, Jan. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE A. HANINGER, '43, announce the birth of George Andrew, Jr., Feb. 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD F. BOWLING, '44, announce the birth of Bernard F., Jr., Feb. 1. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT A. GBIESEDIECK, '44, announce the birth of Paemla, Jan. 30. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS F. HALLIGAN, '44, announce the birth of Mary Ann, Jan. 16, Mr. and Mrs. JAMES L. MEAGHER, '44. an­nounce tiie birth of Mary Glen. Dec 16. Mr. and Mrs. OMER O. STURM, '44, announce the birth of John Fredericlc. Feb. 10. Mr. and Mrs. PRANK A. KUGGIERO. '46, an­nounce the birth of Leonard. Jan. 30. Mr. and Mrs. SAM A. WING. '46. announce the birth of Susan Mary. Jan. 28. Mr. and Mrs. DONALD L. JUN. ex. '48, an­nounce the birth of a daughter. Mar. 9. 
Deaths 
HENRY C. MURPHY, a student at Notre Dame in 1S89. died Feb. 27, at his Lake Shore Drive apartment, Chicago. He was 73. 
A native of Woodstock, McHenry county, HI., Mr. Murphy received his degree from Chicago University after taking preparatory work at Xotre Dame. From 1895 to 1897 he was political and dramatic editor of the "Chicago Journal." He was owner and manager of tbe Marion, Ind., "Xews,"- from 189G to 1898, and of the Kvans­viile, Ind., "Courier," from 1897 to 1920. He re­turned to Chicago in 1923 and became chairman 
SHANAHAN IN GARY, IND. Michael P. Shannhan, '30. is reif much alive, and he resides at 1142 Shelby, Gary, Ind, The Febmar7.r 1347, ALUMNUS reported that >Gke was dead. The editors deeply regret the enror. The Marion, Ind., postoffice, receiT­ing Alumni Office moil addressed to Mike, sent official notification that ho was **deceased." It developed that life' s father, and not ICke, had diod. and the two had been confused by the postoffice. 
of the board of the Upper Avenue National 
bank and held a similar position in the First 
National Bank, Woodstock. 
He is survived by his wife. 
FRANK S. MAHER, a student at Notre Dame in 1902-03, died in Pasadena. Calif., in Janu­ary after a long illness. 
Mr. Maher was bom Sept. 13. 1884, at Fort 
Dodge, la. After leaving Notre Dame in 1903, he 
took his law degree at Iowa University. From 
1907 until a few years ago, Mr. Maher prac­
ticed law in Fort Dodge and played an impor­
tant role in the politics of the state. 
He is survived by his widow, a daughter and 
a son. 
JOSEPH P. GALIiART, '07, Guantanamo, Cuba, died on Nov. 4, 194G, according to word just received by the Alumni Office. 
REV. FRANCIS T. MAHER, C.S-C* '08, died 
of a heart attack on Jan. 26, following a long 
illness. 
Father Maher was bom In Eokomo, Ind., on ' 
April 12, 1884, and was ordained on June 30, 
1912. He taught at Notre Dame and at the 
University of Portland and for several years 
was chaplain at Monsignor Coyle High School, 
Taunton, Mass., and at Lee Memorial hospital, 
Dowagiac, Mich. He had been ill since 1940 and 
had been confined to the Community Infirmary 
since February, 1946. 
THOMAS P. MCLAUGHLIN, a student at Notre Dame from 1911-13, died in his sleep in Baltimore, Md.. on Feb. 10. 
Mr. McLaughlin was born in Syracuse in 1892. He joined Crucible Steel Co. in Syracuse after leaving Notre Dame. In 1930 he moved to Bal­timore and for 12 years was vice-president of the Rustless Iron and Steel Corp. Three years ago he became head of the Eastern Stainless ^ Steel Co. in Baltimore. fl^ 
Widely known as a high school football player in Syracuse, Mr. McLaughlin likewise was prominent In football at Notre Dame. He is survived by his widow, three daughters and one son and by seven sisters and four brothers. One of bis brothers is Edward J. McLaughlin, 
•24, Erie. Pa. 
LEO L. TSCHUDI, '15, DurangD, la., chair­man of the Dubuque county central committee of. the Democratic party, died suddenly Feb. 26. 
Mr. Tschudi was bom Mar. 22, 1895, in Du­buque. At Notre Dame, he received his bache­lor of law degree in 1915 and his master of law degree in 1916. 
County recorder from 1925 to 1935, Mr. Tschudi'had been chairman of the Democratic central committee for the past three years. He had operated a tavem in Durango since 1938. 
He is survived by his widpw; two sons, John, a student at Notre Dame, and Thomas, a stu­dent at Loras Academy; three sisters and a brother, Edmund C, '23. 
RICHARD J. DUNN, '18. vice-president of the Lumbermen's Mutual Casualty Co. and of several associated companies, widely known as a Notre Dame alumnus both in Chicago and ^ ^ Boston, died on Feb. 2 in St. Francis Hospital. ^ ^ Evanston, ill., after a long Illness. He was bur­led in Boston. Surviving Dick are his wife, six sons (one of whom. Bill, was a student at Notre Dame), two daughters, two brothers and three 
s'sters. Mrs. Dunn is a sister of Ferd Rydell. 
•38. 
Dick, an attorney, had been witli the Kemper 
group of Insurance companies for 26 years, in 
later years as vice-president in charge of pub­
lic relations. He began woric for the firm in 
Chicago, but was in Boston from 1928 until 
1943. There he -n-as outstanding, especially as 
president of tiie Catholic Alumni Sodality and 
president of the Notre Dame club. While in 
Boston he was'a member of the law Arm of 
Dunn, Scannell and Roberts and taught for a 
time in the Boston College law school. He re­
turned to Chicago with his family In 1943. 
JOHN O. CLARKE, '32, of St. Louis, died in Albuquerque, N. Mex., on Sept. 24, 1946, accord­ing to word received at press time. Further details. It is expected, will follow in the June Issue. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to HENRT I., '12, and THOMAS A. DOCKWEIL­ER, '12 on the death of their father; to CHARLES T. MORAN, ex. '23, on the death of his wife; to PAUL M. BUTLER, '27, on the death of his brother: to MICHAEL P. SHANA­HAN, '30, on the death of his father; to FRAN­CIS E. PLANNERY, '31, on the death of his mother: to JAMBS K. COLLINS, '32, on the death of his brother; to NORMAN M., '33, and RICHARD J. BOWES, '38, on the death of their father; to FRANKLTN C. HOCHREITER, '35, on the death of his son; to CHARLES R. MONTGOMERY, '35, on the death of his moth­er; to JOHN H. NEBSON, '35, on the death of his son; to RICHARD H., '37, and PRANK 
J. DELANEY. JR., '38, on the death of their father; to ALLAN J. CLARK, '43, on the death of his father; to JAMES G. CROWLEY, JR., ex. '44, on the deatli of his mother; to WIL­LIAM A., '46, JOHN J., '34, EDWARD A., "35, and LAURENCE H. BRACKEN, '41, on the death of their father. 
Personals 
IfiO n 0 0 REV- JOHN .4. 9IacI<'AMARA, '•'''•' ' St. Joseph SUreml Baths, Mt. Clemens, Hich. 
50.yEAR REUNION 
CLASS OF 1897 (and all preceding classes) May 30-31, June 1 
May 30 and 31 and June 1 will see at Notre Dame a special reunion of all the classes up to and Including 1S97, which is, of course, the golden anniversary class of the present year. Special letters of Invitation to the reunion were sent from the Alumni Oflice in March to all the surviving members of these earlier classes, and, as acceptances are received, plans will be completed for the gathering* on the campus and further notice sent to those returning. 
The war years Interrupted all class reunions. On this account especially, the Alumni Ofhce wanted this year to invite back to Notre Dame, not only the members of the golden anniver­sary class of 1897, but also the members of preceding classes, several of whom had missed their reunions on account of the war. 
It Is too soon after the mailing of the invi­tations to make any comprehensive l!st of those from the early days who will be back. Unfor­tunately, FATHER JOHN MacNAMARA. '97, secretary of the 1S90-99 group, cannot because of his delicate health leave Mt. Clemens, but Father Mac writes that JOSEPH V. SULLI­VAN of Chicago will be here. And MIKE DON­AHUE of South Bend 'phoned that he would be out. 
ARTHUR W. STAGE, *96, editor of "The Ann Arbor News," Ann Arbor, Mich., will also be here. HUGO C. ROTHERT, '87, Camden, Ark., writes that he will be present, accompanied by his daughter, Dr. Frances C Rothert, of Little Rock. FATHER BERNARD ILL and FATHER JOSEPH MAGUIRE are at Notre Dame and will, of course. Join the observance. 

WILLIAM P. BURNS. '96. is coming from nearby Michigan City, Ind. PATRICK E. BURKE, 'SS, New Orleans, and SAMUEL H. NUSSBAUM, '87, Chicago, are hoping to register for the three days. Mrs. Bachrach writes that her husband, BENJAMIN C. BACHRACH, '92, has been 111 for two years and will hardly be present. 
According to the Alumni OfTlce mailing list, the following are' the surviving members of the class of 1897; BENNETT. HUNTER M., Weston. 
W. Va.; COSTELLO, MARTIN J., 7821 East End Ave., Chicago 49, 111.; DANNEMILLER. ALBERT J.. Dannemlller Coffee Co., 116 39th St, Brooklyn 32, N. T.; DONAHUE, MICHAEL A., 615 N. Walnut St., South Bend 16, Ind.; KUNTZ. PETER, JR., Mutual Home BIdg., 10th Floor, Dayton 2, O.; MacNAMARA, Rev. JOHN A., St. Joseph's Mineral Baths. Mt. Clemens, Mich.; MOXLEY, GEORGE T., Belden Stratford Hotel, Chicago; MURPHT, ELMER J., 2308 19th St.. N.W., Washington 9, D. C ; NET, JIICHAEL J.. 5447 A Bates St., St. Louis, Mo.; NOONAN. THOMAS E.. 5727 W. Superior St., Chicago 44; QUINN. JAMES B., 831 N. 7th St., Springfield. 111.; SULLIVAN, JOSEPH v.. Belmont Hotel, 3156 Sheridan Rd., Chicago 14. 
• ' * V Catherine's Church, M43 E. 93rd St., Cleveland 4, 0> 

From FATHER illKE MORIARTT: 
"Two off-the-record departmental meetings were held on the occasion of my recent visit to the University. One meeting I attended with FATHER HEBERT and FATHER MISCH. The other 1910 meeting included a get-together with FATHER MATHIS. He is chaplain of St. Jos­eph's hospital. South Bend, and does organiza­tional work at the University with groiips of students interested In the Liturgy." 
|Q|« FRED IJ. STEERS, 110 S. I>earb3m ' ' • ' St. Chicago, 111. BERNARD F. McL.\IN, Dallas. Texas, busi­
nessman and leader in half a hundred Dallas civic and philanthropic enterprises daring the last decade, was announced recently as tho winner of the Linz Award for outstanding siervice to the comnluni^y of Dallas dnring^ 1946. 
Mr. McLain, who became the 18th Dallaaite to receive the Linz Award, took pre-legal work at Notre Dame. He received bis law degree from Tale University. 
W. HITBI-EX, 231 Soatb USalle 

1914 UtA 
St., CUraco 4, III. 

Succeeding the late FRANK HATES as sec­retary of the class of 1914 is his close friend. IRA HI7RLET, Chicago attorney. Franli and Ira came to Notre Dame from the same town, were at Notre Dame together and for a time follow­ing their graduation lived together and worked in the same law office in Chicago. So the suc­cession is a "naturah" 
Ira sent the following news for this issue; 

"I note from the Martindale legal directory that SIMEON T. FLANAGAN is located at 70 Pine St., New Tork. The same source indicated the location of a number of the other lawyers in the class and gives the additional Informa­tion that JAMES V. ROBINS la the present mayor of Negates.'Ariz., and that DANIBl. E. SUtLIVAN is In the district jittomey'a office at Redwood City. Calif. 
TOOMET CLIFFORD, who was at one time practicing law in Camden, Ark., was in Chicago temporarily for a time durirg the war, and I. had the pleasure of having a long talk with him. He was at that time associated with the FBI. At the Army game last year in New Tork,. 1 met RAT MIUiER at the pre-game rally i>» the TValdorf." 
From CLTDE BROUSSARD, "13: "I know that you will be interested to leam that the Texas University coed shown on the cover of 
•Life Magazine' Feb. 24, 1947, issue, is a daugh­ter of our fellow alumnus, RICRARD T. (DICK) BRATTN, of Port Arthur. Texas. Dick was a chemical engineer In the class of 1914. He has been In Port Arthur for about 35 years as general manager for the Southern Acid and Sulphur Co. 
Frank J. Shoughnessr, '06, righL ahowB IMZ* mlh Stan Mn^ol e< ih* St Louts Cardinals, received on Feb. 2 the Bill Sloeuai Mraieiied Floqa* for mwitorieui sarvie* to baseball for a long period of yean. Th* enrard waa pcoMoitad to Hz. ShongluMMr. president of the International Leagne. ol th* 24th amiaol dimiar ol th* Now Toric Chapter of the Baseball Writers Association. Mwdal rocehrad tha Sid Meicar Memor­ial Player-of-the-Yeor Award. 
Fboto Iv Wra. G. Greene; WorU-TOearim 
IQI^ B. f. TOU., £06 E. Tatt St., South 
30-yEAR REUNION 
MAY 30-31, IDNE 1 

More and more acceptances come In in re­sponse to BERNIC VOLL'S invitation to tlie class to have the 30th reunion in his home on Ironwood Road, South Bend, on Friday, Satur­day and Sunday, May 30 and 31 and June 1. 
HARRY KELLY, relieved of the burden of governing Micliigan and now practicing law in Detroit, will be on hand. So will CHARLIE BACHMAX of Lansing, Mich. Ditto for CHUCK CORCORAN, Springfield, 111., who promised, "I shall write to SHANAHAN, WELCH and MA­HONEY." 
BERNIE HABERER, never having attended a class reunion up to now, is coming all the way up from Fort Worth, Texas, for this one. BILL KENNEDY is coming from Chicago, HUGH O'NEILL from CIe\-eland and OSCAR DORWIN from New York City. 
The only "I hope to but can't promise" is from JOHN MILLER of Los Angeles. John plans to be in Massachusetts in June and is trying to line up his business so tliat lie can be at Notre Dame for the three-day reunion. There are no "regrets" so far. Everj-body heard from, is either coming or hoping to come. 
All of which, to date, totals up to 29 com­ing and three hoping. 
You'll be hearing more from your secretary and host, B. J. VOLL, as to plans and pro­gram for the tliree days. 
A recent note from MATT TRUDELLE maKes known his present address: 720 E. McDowell Road, Phoenix, Ariz. 
|Q|Q JOHX A. LEMMER, 901 Lake Shore 
• ' ' " Drive, £scacaba, Mich. 

JACK MEAGHER has been appointed line coach at the University of Iowa. Jack joins DR. EDDIE ANDERSON and FRANK CA­RIDEO. 
RT. REV. MSGR. FRANCIS G. OTT was on Feb. 9 solemnly invested as a domestic prelate in St. Joseph's Cathedral, San Diego, Calif. 
109fl ^^^ ^* WARD, 458 Spring St., Jjos 
• '^ W Angles 13, Calif. 
From LEO WARD: 
Present at the meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles, which was honored by FATHER CAVANAUGH'S presence, were six members who claim the class of 1920 as their graduating class: ED aicMAHON, OSCAR SI­DENFADEN, FRANK MARSHALL, HOWARD O'NEILL, LEO B. WARD and GEORGE TRAFTON. 
Other news of the class came from DICK SWIFT, of Davenport, la., and FATHER ROB­ERT SWEENEY, whose home is Portland, in which diocese FATHER TOM TOBIN continues his work. Of course, . it isn't news now, but CLIPPER SMITH has transferred his affections from college ranks at the University of San Francisco, where he is succeeded by ED Mc-KEEVER, and is now head coach for the Bos­ton Yanks of the National League. SLIP MAD­IGAN. who is now a grandfather, resigned as general manager to tho Los Angeles Dons of the Ajnerican League, and has returned to San Francisco to look after his nusiness interests. 
1 999 G^KAU> Asm:, 39 Cambridge St., 
From KID ASHE: 
It Is now apparent only one thing is needed to insure success for the 1922 Quarter Century Anniversary .party, and that is good attend­ance. 
The response to our first appeal, via the postal notices prepared and sent out by our efficient publicity committee, has been very gratifying. Please stop stroking your beards and pointing your mustaches, those of you who have not returned the postal notices, and let us know if we can count upon you to be , present. 
Verj' shortly, as this Is written, the publicity committee is going to send out a class roster to every member of the class. The idea back of this is to have the fellows write to their own particular buddies and friends inducing them to attend. If you are wondering how RALPH CORYN is getting along these days, Just get his address off the class roster and write him a letter urging him to attend Commencement this year. He won't let you down. 
AARON HUGUENARD and HAROLD WEB­ER, co-chairmen of the Quarter Century Anni­versary- committee organization, are leaving nothing undone to bring about an attractive program. <If you want to make them happy for some of the hard work they have already ex­pended, all you have to do is to show up .for the affair. 
25-yEAR REUNION 
MAY 30-31, lUNE 1 

Listen to what Aaron says. He writes as follows: 
"Arrangements for the 25th anniversary of the graduation of our class are rapidly helng completed. The following committees are enthu­siastically functioning: ­
"Committee on Publicity: DANIEL YOUNG, chairman; BILL CASTELLINI, ED BAILEY. "Committee on Arrangements: FRED DRES­SEI/. chairman. 
"Committee on Reception: BERNIE McCAP-FERT. chairman: PAT MANIOX, CHARLIE HIRSCHBUHL, JIM JONES, TOM McCABE. FATHER BOB GALLAGHER. HUNK AN­D E R S O N , FATHER GEORGE FISCHER, C.S.C., WALT STUHLDRBHER, FRAN K HUGHES, DANNY COUGHLIN. 
"Committee on Transportation: FRANK MILES, chairman; ED FLEMING. LEO LOV­ETT, PAUL PADEN, PAUL SCHWERTLEY, GENE SMOGOR, DR. CLEM SOBECKI, GER­ALD BRUBAKER, WALT SHILTS. 
"Committee on Biographies: HAROLD Mc­liEE, chairman: CHARLIE HIRSCHBUHL, W^ALT MATTHES, JERRY DIXON. 
"HAROLD WEBER is goine to he our host at a grand party to be held at his summer home. Diamond Lake (about 25 miles from South Bend) on Friday, May 30. We are to gather at 2:30 P.M. in the afternoon or as soon thereafter as we can. Much business has accumulated since our last session and it is anticipated a thorough discussion of pending matters will extend into the wee hours before JIMMY JONES moves to aidjourn. 
"JOHN PAUL CDLLBN, of Wauwatosa, Wis., is honing up on Robert's Rules of Procedure so as to be able to hand down a dust decision in case any one gets out of order. JIM DOOL­EY writes from North Andover, Mass., that he will arrive a few days early and ready to take on any assignment. DAN YOUNG at Drex­el Hill, Pa., and his publicity committee are sparing no efforts to bring tlie stragglers into line." 
Here is the very latest list of 1922 members who have signified their intention of coming to our 25-year reunion. The hulk of these men responded with postal notices, but some few were contacted personally by your scribe, or other members of the class. They are: £D BAILEY, BalUmore; JERRY BARRETT, Oma­ha; PRANK BLASIUS, Dayton; FRANK BLOEMER, JR., Louisville; GERALD BRU­BAKER, Mishawaka; EMMETT BURKE, Chi­cago; EDDIE BYRNE, Natchez; AI/ CARROLL. Chicago; BILL CASTELLINI, ClncinnaU; PETE 
CHAMPION, Cleveland; JOHN RALPH CORYN. Moline: JOHN PAUL CULLEN, W^auwatosa, Wis.; JERRY DIXON, Chicago; JIM DOOLEY, North Andover, Mass.; FRED DRESSEL, Sotith Bend; WILL DWYER. London, O.; JOE PARLEY, Chicago; FATHER GEORGE FISCH­ER, C.S.C.. North Easton, Mass.; CY PITES, St. Louis; MARK POOTB, Chicago; FATHER BOB GA1.LAGHER, Van Wert, O.; CHARLIE HIRSCHBUHL, Portland, Ore.; AARON HU­GUENARD, South Bend; JIM JONES, Roches­ter, N. Y.; JERRY JONES, Dlion, 111.; RAY KEARNS, Terre Haute, Ind.; DR. TOM KEEPB. Logansport. Ind.; DR. WALLACE KREIGBAUM. Minneapolis; CLARENCE Mc­CABE, Washington, D. C.; TOM S. McCABE, Chicago; BERNIE McCAPPERY, South Bend; BROTHER PAT MCCARTHY, Chicago; HAR­OLD McKEE, Chicago, PAT MANION, South Bend; PRANK MILES, South Bend; KENN NYHAN, Toledo; TOM "SARGE" OWENS, South Bend; PAUL PADEN, South Bend; PAUL PFOHI* Chicago; AL RHOMBERG, Dubuque; TONY SCHIAVONE, Chicago; PAUL SCHWERTLEY, South Bend; JIM SHAW. Des Moines; MORGAN SHEEDY, Detroit; CLAR­ENCE SMITH Bemidji, Minn.; GENE SMO­GOR, South Bend; WALT STUHLDREHER, Indianapolis; HAROLD WEBER, South Bend; CHET WYNNE, Chicago; DANNY COUGHLIN. Waseca, Minn.; BOB PHELAN, Port Madison, la.; JOE RHOMBERG, Dubuque; MARK STOR­EN, Michigan City, Ind.; DAN YOUNG, Drexel Hill, Pa. 
FATHER HILARY PASZEK, C.S.C, now at the Congregation's seminary in Le Mans, France (6 Rue Notre Dame), would be, he writes, more than happy to see any Notre Dame alumni who are nearby or to hear from any of his class­mates. 
199 ^ FAVIi CASTXER, 1305 TV. Arlington 
• ' " ^ Ave., St. Paul, Minn. 
From PAUL CASTNER: The class secretary and his family are again on the move. This time back to St. Paul, Minn., which bears out what RED SHEA always said, "You can take the boy out of the country but you can't take the country- out of the boy." 
In my move I have had some very pleasant experiences. First stopping at Notre Dame and having a nice visit with FATHER JOHN CAV­ANAUGH and ROG KILEY who Is a judge of the Appellate Court in Chicago. Rog Is con­ducting a "Great Books" discussion course with # a group from the Law School, and I sat In the classroom with Dean PAT MANION during one of the seminars conducted by Judge Kiley and Father John Cavanaugh. 
Going through Chicago I talked with EDDIE GOULD and learned that he has a hoy starting at Notre Dame this fall. DICK NASH'S boy started last September. If you members of the class want to get an idea of how time Is flying, that may give it to you. 
Since writing the last notes for the class I have attended the Notre Dame Commencement and I have seen RED SHEA. EDDIE GOULD. JOHN MONTAGUE, JACK NORTON and many others. I have seen FRANCIS WALLACE In New York and, of course, FATHER FRANK CAVANAUGH at Notre Dame. 
For a little personal history—I am joining the Insurance Department of the Knights of Columbus to be general agent for St. Paul and Minneapolis, Duluth and some other points in the state of Minnesota. Paul, Jr., who is now 16, is a sophomore at St. Thomas Military Academy in St. Paul, and Peter, who Is 13, will be entering St. Thomas this fall. 
On arriving on my new job, I Immediately called up PERCY 'WILCOX and TOM LEE, both of whom are with the Northern States Power Co. in Minneapolis. They have been there for quite a number of years and my Im-^m. pression is that the two of them are running the business. Perc and Tom are both married but, unfortunately, haven't any children. Tom lost two children as babies but Perc and his wife have not been blessed with any children. In my territory I will come within a few miles 
of SPIKE PLINN'S hideout In Superior, Wis. Spike has made considerable history serving In the Seabces in the Pacific, but perhaps more startling news is the fact that he Is married. Before very long I will make a detailed report on Spike. 
Now that I am back in the fold I expect to be sending in regular notes for each issue of the "Alumnus" (I am dictating this In BILIJ DOOLEY'S office and l saw him look up quiz­zically when I made that remark). At any rate I feel that I am back in the fold and I will be seeing many of you and I would like to hear from you. 1948 is our 25th reunion and I think that we ought to have a little warm-up at the reunion this year. 
1924 
PRANK McGINNIS, Detroit, formerly Ford car advertising manager, has been appointed director of sales promotion of the Ford Motor Co. 
TOM HODGSON, Minneapolis, has been ap­pointed director of public relations and member of the executive staff of Gamble-Skogmo, Inc. After practicing law In Mankato and Sleepy Eye, Minn., Tom became legal counsel of the state department of banking from 1933 to 1943 and more recently was associated with the Fed­eral Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. He was dis­charged from the naval resen*e as a lieutenant commander last May after serving In Europe and in the Pacific theater. 
1925 
STEVE REBEIL has opened a wholesale 
building^ supply business in Long Beach. Calif. 
RALPH GLADEN Is superintendent and med­
ical director for the Modesto State Hospital, 
Modesto, Calif. 
From TOM CARPAGNO, McSherrystown, Pa.: "W^ALT O'MEARA calls on me occasionally and Is working for Industrial Dryer Co, In Stam­ford, Conn- JOHN McNEILL, from Harrisburg, called me on the 'phone when he was In town recently. Says he Is trying to figure out a way to pep up tlie Harrisburg Club. 
"JOE CORCORAN drops In to see me often. RIP MILLER is doing the banquet circuit at high school dinners and we hope to have him down for a local dinner in March. At the Phila­delphia Sports writers* dinner I saw GEORGE CONNOR get the 'outstanding lineman award.' At the same dinner I ran into FRANCIS "WAL­LACE and JERRY FLYNN. I also see JOE FARRELL often. He gets around for G.B. I have a new title. Recently I was made director of the manufacturing division for the Cannon Shoe Co. (four factories). It keeps me busy." 
Two South Bend persons who made good in the field of entertainment returned to their old haunts recently to reminisce with school day friends and rest up from a strenuous year on Broadway. They were RALPH DUMKE and his wife. Ralph, recently outstanding as "Cap­tain Andy" in the New York revival of "Show Boat," was undecided about his next show. 
I A^ Z TICTOR F. liEMMER, Box 661, Iron­* *— O wood, Snch. 
From ERNIE LANDRY (sales engineer for Storms Drop Forging Co., Springfield, Mass.) to VIC LEMMER: 
"Upon my return from New York City the latest copy of the 'Alumnus* was awaiting me. I am dumbfounded to read of so many of our class having passed away. They all will be re­membered in my prayers. 
"My hope Is that you are well. Please let the fellows know where I am located. Sure would like to hear from all of them." 
CARSON DALTON is on the vice-president and general manager's staff of the Chrysler Corp. in Detroit. 
CHUCK GUINON, Grand Rapids, commander of Walter D. Idema post No. 55, Canadian Legion, was recently elected president of the United Veterans Council of Kent county (Mich.). 

Chuck sen*ed in the Canadian forces during: the war. 
BERT DUNNE, San Francisco, still Is In the news. He recently wrote an Instructional book for youngsters, "Play Ball, Son," and then had It made into an educational movie of such class that the State Department has bought the for­eign rights to It for use in Germany and Japan. His latest film venture Is a short, "Swing King,** featuring "that sterling cinema star," Ted Williams. 
From JERRY MORSCHES, 209 Standard 

Bldg., Fort Wayne, Ind., to VIC LEMMER: 
"After noting your appeal to the class mem­bers in the 'Alumnus' Just received I felt a responsibility that should no longer be put off. For 20 years I have been Intending to drop you a line. Possibly I failed because I have had fairly close relations with the Alumni Office, at least until a serious illness I had In 1940. Since then i have been on the campus several times—the last time was In August. I attended the final session of the Catholic Charities con­ference, primarily to see FATHER JOE TOOM­ET. Father Joe has gone far in his work. He was very busy, but we did manage several hours together. He is the youngest-appearing: member of the class I have seen and retains his exuberant personallty.I have always had a special warm feeling towards Fatheir Joe. I went to Rochester, N. Y., in the early spring of 1937. Found Father Joe in first year in St. Bernard's Seminary. I was married in April of 1930 to a Rochester girl and Father Joe was ordained In June of 1930—that was the last time I had seen him until last summer. 
"I go to Buffalo and Rochester every year. Called on BISHOP O'HARA a year ago last October and had a nice chat with him. He la always delighted to see Notre Dame men. I was in Buffalo in December but he was away. 
"When I think of FATHER TOOMEY, I al­ways wonder about PUT NEWilAN of Oneida. 
N. Y. Put, Father Joe and I had many sessions together during Father Joe's seminary days. I have lost track of Put. 
"There is no local '26 news. You know, I was always rather Isolated in regard to other class members locally. Fort Wayne had a large representation of '25 members and then the later years, but POOHEY, whom I have lost track of, was the only other class member from Fort Wayne. I usually line up with the 
•25 members at the club affairs—^BOB GOR­DON, PAUL SAGSTETTER, MAURICE BO­LAND, ED BAKER. Tonight is another get­together—a trip through the local broadcasting studios, later a buffet supper. 
"The idea of your having a son old enough for enrollment at Notre Dame rather 'floored' me, although on recollection Pm not too far behind. The oldest boy, David, made 16 last month, Robert is 12 and Ann is 10—that Is the family. I've registered David at St. Joseph Academy, Bardstown, Ky.. for next fall. 
"By the way, the last reunion I attended was the 10th year. Wc were cheated on our 20th although '27 will have theirs. Why not organ­ize an unofficial 20-year reunion for this year? I'm sure you can develop enthusiasm and I'll be glad to help if I may." 
m 0^* V JOSEFH M. BOI^AND, Badio Station "^ ' WSBT. South Bend Tribune, South Bend, Ind. 
From JOE BOLAND: 
Hello, there—old timer: sure! I remember you—let's see—uuumm, aaahh—it was In Walsh —no, Corby—OH, I know! Big Mac's "Ocean Shipping" class—^THAT was It! 
Better brush up on that line, friends—^you may need it come May 30, 31 and June 1. That's when the 20th reunion of the class of '27 is scheduled . . . and we've got rooms wait­ing for you, on the campus. A full schedule has been lined up for the week-end, but not so full that you won't have plenty of time to find out how the rest of us look, talk. act. think and are—20 years after: just like you! 
JOE O'DONNELL, who somehow acquired a compound leg fracture during the winter, has very kindly offered to help the Chlcagoland *27 reunion work, with-EDDIE HcX<AUGHLtN. .. . Joe says he has plenty of time, while re­cuperating, to telephone, write letters; and in general exhort the faithful to plan for that week-end. In fact, he Joined with DAN CUN­NINGHAM. JERRY LeSTRANGE. and BTTJi CORBETT to give me a postcard "hot-foot** about It 'way back In early February .. . so, those four are on record: they'll HAVE to show up! 
GEORGE WIU.IAM GORDON, from 1201 French Ave.. Lakewood 7. O., takes up the same cause in a letter—and adds a new frlU for your consideration: George figures '26 ia hragging a bit too much about having sons at 
N.D. now .. . or who intend to enroll In '47, the Gordons have been represented since *46. with young Bill here In Chemical Engineering. George proposes a survey, with a view to find­ing out if there are others from the class of '27 with a similar achievement. How about it? 
HARRY O'BOYIJE writes from 2717 Kingman Blvd., Des Moines. Ia.. that he wants a room reserved for him at the reunion. He's been hack in Iowa since December, still with Chev­rolet. . . . 
20-yEAR REUNION 
SCAT 3041. JUNE 1 

GENE KNOBLOCK, PAUL BUTLER, with BILL DOOLEY sitting in to lend us expert ad­vice from the Alumni Office, and your bmbl. svt. had an Oliver Hotel luncheon session on '27 reunion plans. We decided to set Friday, May 30. as the evening for our 1927 class get-together. The alumni banquet—feature of the week-end—Is set for Saturday night, so we'll plan to have all of you here by Friday evening, at S, no later than 8, since—since that's when we'll huddle at the Bronzewood Room. Hotel La Salle. In downtown South Bend. 
There will be letters, and more follow-up— but, plan now to arrange your time so that you can spend Friday evening, all day Saturday, and Sunday morning back at Notre Dame. May 30, 31. and June 1 for the reunion of 1927'SL A Sunday morning feature will be our own Me­morial Mass for deceased class members and their families, at one of the campus chapels. It will be said by one of our own classmates, and you'll want to take In ALL the activities from Friday evening through noon, Sunday,— so, you had better figure on that. It'll take you that long just to MEET all the fellows we'll have back, any way! 
Here are more "unofficial chairmen" for the reunion, in their areas: JOB BENDA and FRANK MAYER — Minnesota, Wisconsin and the Northwest. 
TOM BYRNE, who really belongs in '27, 
. might as well take over Cleveland; hasn't had much to do with alumni activities lately ex­cept be president! Any way, he can appoint PAT CANNY and JACK BUTLER assistants! JIM COLEMAN can get In a few licks around New York state. RAY "Bucky" DAHMAN the same from Youngstown. And, how about JOE GARTLAND In Boston r JACK HOWARD In New York? JOHNNY McBRIDE. In up­state Pennsylvania? JOE McGEE. In Louisville? He was visiting In South Bend recently and as­'sured me he'd be back at Commencement. Then, there's JOB MAXWELL, In Philadel­phia; p . ALTON MOORE, in Chicago; JIM QUINN, Rahway, N. J., and environs; CHAR­LEY RILEY, in Indianapolis; Father HARRT RYAN, out Iowa-way; RICHARD "Red" SMITH might be able to shake away from the Cubs for a day or so; and WALTER WELLES­LEY SMITH' could do the same from the New 
- York "Herald-Tribune"—let's make THEM re­sponsible for every '27 man still active In the big leagues! FRANK DAVID In New Orleans; TOMMY GREEN, for Houston, Texas; GUS STANCE should come down from Merrill. Wis.; and BILL KAVANAUGH. J. HALE McKTT.T.TP. 
and TOM McMAHON . . , wherever you are. come on back and brln^ others with you! Don't come alone—^make it a party, for tbn 20th annual reunion! 
SCRAP TOUXG, former head trainer at Notre Dame, is now residing with his family in Mich­igan City, ind., where he is employed by an athletic tape company. During the football sea­son he acts as trainer for the Chicago Rockets coached by JIM CROWLEY. '25. 
1Q9fi I«Ol^IS F. BVCKLES, Sociil Security ' '" O Admlnstration, Km. 400, 1100 Chester St., Cleveland 14, O. 
From LOU BUCKLEY: BOB GRANT, who is ser\-ing his sixth term in Congress, is now a member of the powerful House "Ways and Means Committee. Bob, you have our congratulations and best wishes for continued success in your political career. 
I visited FRANK DONOVAN and his family in Muskegon, Mich. Frank is kept busy with his Kaydon Engineering Corp. and some of the finest horses in the countrj'. Probably some of you followed Donovan's Fighting Frank, Breezy Louise. Pat-mi-boy and Fighting Don last sea­son. There will be a new Donovan horse this year, Fighting Pete. 
"While in Grand Rapids, Jlich., on business, I stopped in to see LEO "WALSH who has Just enough gray hair to make him a most distin­guished-looking attorney. Leo has two children. 
BILL KIRWAN wrote from G S- Dubuque St., Iowa City, la., where he opened the Kir­wan Furniture Co. in September. Bill mentioned that VINCE "WALSH was with him for the Iowa game. 
PIERCE O'CONNOR recently announced his association with John Kennedy in the general practice of law at 625 Hanna Bldg., Cleveland 15. 
After unsuccesfully trying to get notes for this issue from five classmates, I fell back on one of my old depcndables the last minute— JOE MORRISSEY—who came through .in his usual fine style with the following notes from 22 
Main St., Cincinnati: 

"At the Army game I ran Into the following, and maybe a few more, but they have slipped my memory: 
"BOB HURLEY, and I can say wc haven't missed any meals. I think he is just one size larger than TOM BYRNE. JOHN "WINBERRY, who is just grey and it is most becoming, is political timber. 
"I saw NORB KAVANAUGH from Oregon way and JOHN FREDERICK and FRANK DONOVAN from Muskegon. BOB HAMILTON was looking fit and proud of his two charming daughters. FRITZ "WILSON was on his way to take Mrs. Christie Flanagan shopping. MARTY RYAN and the boys from Buffalo were a happy crowd. He's the same old Ryan, a laugh be­tween everj- word. BILL JONES and I were up one night until way past three discussing the coming 20-year reunion. PAT CANNY was dressed in the latest Fifth Avenue style, but I just can't let him be serious. -. 
"BOTTS CRO"WLBY Is in Florida making a round of the baseball camps for Sports Pro­ducts, fine Had a phone conversation and sev­eral letters from CYP SPORL. Sorrj* to have missed seeing the boys in New Orleans, but there will be other days. JOHN POLISICY is in Steubenville, O. He is director of the Catho­lic Center. He and JOHN NIEMIEC coach at Central High. 
"Reliable and authentic information—Mr. and. Mrs. TOM LA'VELLE, Anderson, Ind., are the proud parents of twins. Had a note from FA­THER JIM McSHANB, S.J. He is giving mis­sions from St. Louis to Denver. His address is St. Louis University. 
"Going into the Yankee stadium I thought of the many times we entered dear old Sorin. Yes, the head man was there and looking fine, ad­dress Watertown. "Wis.—Rev. JAMES, do I have to tell? 
"Saw the N.D.-Kentucky game and had a short visit with MARION JEFFERSON — couldn't locate JOHN BUSCHMEYER. OSKAR RUST has left our fair city and the coal in­dustry to go into business with his father. JAMES SCHOCKNESSEY was In town during the past campaign. TOM BYRNE tells me GEORGE LEPPIG finally found the one-and­only and, what do you know, she's from Cleveland. 
"Saw HUD JEFFERYS, Hanging Rock, C, at the LaSalle after the Northwestern game. FRANK MCCARTHY and I had a short ses­sion after the same game. He Is, and has been for some time. In Fort "Wayue, Ind. Met an old friend of DAVE KREMBS, Stevens, Point, "Wis. 
"After sur%-eylng the field last fall, I think tliat We should have large buttons for identifi­cation at the reunion. Old father time, good food, easy living, gray hair or bald head (like me) change one, don't they?" 
Thanks, JOE, for the above notes. I gave a talk in. Erie, Pa., recently and tried unsuccessfully to contact LARRY STADLER. I did find out, however, that Larry Is superin­tendent of the Superior Bronze Co. there, and Is married. 
From GEORGE SCHEUER to LOU BUCKLEY: 
"ROBERT CAPESIUS. who was one of DOC­TOR COONEY'S Journalism students. Is now here at 'The Chicago Sun.' He also has helped me get 'Chicago Aviation News* under way. That sheet, which I edit in my spare time, is now a year old and is beginning to take hold. 
"Haven't gotten out on 'Ex News-Times' for several months so liavc not heard from many former South Bend N-T. staffers for a while. Did have Christmas cards from JACK OHNEMUS of Cleveland, FRANK DOAN of "Wilmette, 111., FRANK T. AHEARN, of Hartford, Conn.. GERALD HOLLAND of Detroit and others. 
"Aheam drove out to Chicago last summer with his family in a new Buick bearing the snappy license of 'FTA.' 
"EARL DARDES, whom we see on some of our trips to Pennsylvania, Is a father now. Jack Andrew Dardcs was bom early in No­vember. Earl has a photo studio at TItusville, Pa. His brother, RAYMOND, a N.D. student in 1929-30, was in Chicago a few hours one day last fall before flying to the Far East as an oil engineer." 
FLOYD SEARER, vice-president and trust oflicer of the First Bank and Trust company, was elected president of the South Bend Com­munity Chest recently. 
JOHN ROBINSON, Hartford, Conn., has been named state commander of the- Catholic "War Vets. 
DR. DAVE SOLOMON has resumed his medi­cal practice in Johnstown, Pa., after a long service hitch. 
1 99 9 ^^^'^S ^* NOVI'EBV. p. O. Box 1545, 
Prom DICK NO"WERY: KARL MARTERSTECK. originally of Jack­son, Mich., now of Cleveland, was chosen as a candidate for the Alumni Association Board of Directors. Karl is recognized as one of the outstanding Catholic laj'men In the Cleveland area. 
JOE O'BRIEN is ranching In Kansas. Did you notice the likeness of "WILLIAM C. LOUGH­RAN in the picture of the Baltimore Club, page 15 of the February "Alumnus"? 
"WILLIAM E. "PnJKY" CASSIDY is In New Orleans and Is doing a swell job of selling Texas Co. products. He has four children. Or is it five. Pinky? 
See BILL CAPLIS occasionally. He is a planter and is living near Shreveport. 
I have not seen BILL SIDENPADEN but un­

derstand that he has seven children. He Is dis­
tributor of Sol-Gas (Butane) in Ontario. Calif. 
Understand that BILL "Cross Country** BROWN Is active in the Milwaukee Club work. 
For those who do not know, LOUIS J, THORNTON, originally of Birmingham, Ala., Is and has been for several years. Father Thorn­
ton, C.S.(3. He is now the registrar of the Uni-W versity. Got two letters from HOWARD F. DOLL, 
•formerly of Shreveport, but now with Victor Electric Products, Inc., 2950 Robertson Ave., Cincinnati 9, O. He signs his name over the title—^vice-president in charge of engineering. Howard says he' saw J. THADDEUS HEIN­LEIN not long ago In Erie, Pa. Thad is chief engineer for an Aluminum Forging Co. there. He avers that MICKY McMAHON is in Cincin­nati, but Is being transferred to New Orleans-Incidentally. Micky, let me know where you will be in New Orleans and I will get In touch with you. I go there occasionally. 
BERNARD J. BIRD Is still at Lake Charles. La. He Is connected with our Uncle Sam's De­partment and has a good set-up. 
FRANK MEYER is at Hammond, Ind. He can be contacted by calling tlie Hammond Bio­logical Gardens. 
Also received a letter from HAROLD A. BAIR. . He is secretary and treasurer of the Claribel (banning Co., Post Office Box, 234, Oak-dale, Calif.* Says he saw TED VALLEZ who lived in Walsh Hall as a freshman In 1925 and now lives at Oakdalc. He Is a cousin of PAUL ff^ 
A. "Pete" BRYSSELBOUT from Bay City. ^"^ Mich. Harold sends the following about PETER 
A. BEE, JR.: "A friend of mine looked him up while in New York and found that Pete was In the Army, located in Texas." Says he does not know where he Is at present though." 
Again, wonder why these '29ers won't write. Let's hear from GEORGE W. JEWETT. JOE ABBOTT, EDWARD L. BARRETT, JOHN F. BERSCHERD, FRANK J. BELTING, THOMAS 
J. QUIGLEY, JOHN J. REUTHER, DONALD 
J. PLUNKETT. JEROME E. OUELETTE, ROBERT G. NEWBOLD, LOUIS P. NIEZER. 
REV. JOE BARRY. CS.C, war chaplain, has been appointed rector of the new Farley Hall on the campus. 
FATHER GEORGE WELSH, C.S.C, Is also out of service and is a chaplain at St. Charles Home. Wauwatosa, Wis. 
1930 HAROLD E. DUKE, 4030 N. Broad St. Philadelphia, Fa. 
Prom HAROLD DUKE: 
"While We Thirties have always known wc ­were THE class of all time, the recent alumni ^) Board of Directors meeting at Notre Dame made this not merely a boast, but an actuality. Of the 15 members now serving on the board, three are from our famous Class of 1930: JACK ELDER. BOB HELLRUNG and your scribe. Also REV. ROBERT SWEENEY, C.S.C., '30, was pi:§sent as alumni coordinator. Jack re­ceived the highest number of votes of any candidate and Bob was elected to the vice-presidency of the Board. Yes, we Thirties can well be proud of our great Class! 
I received an announcement from Boston re­cently that. JOHN V. MORAN, who has been with the FBI for the past six years. Is now as­sociated with the law firm of Badger, Pratt, Doyle and Badger in Boston. Here's wishing John luck and continued success. 
After several unsuccessful attempts to locate BERNIE CONROY last fall, I have a letter from him reading: 
"Sorry I missed you at the football games. I saw CON CAREY on the campus and he told me you were around; however. I was having trouble trying to locate JACK and DAN CAN­NON, as they had my tickets for the game. 
"Except for those two trips last fall, I have been staying pretty close to Pittsburgh. For the past four years I have been working as per­sonnel manager for a steel foundry at Vander­grlft, which is just 30 miles from Pittsburgh. ^ ^ Now and then I run Into HUGH GALLAGHER, ^ ' BILL GINDER, JOHN RONEY. DICK O'TOOLE, JIM DODSON and LARRY EN­RIGHT from our class. Keep the good work up with the 'Alumnus,* and if I run into some news I'll let you know." 
Volume 25, No. 2, April, 1947 
BOB HEa«LRUNG writes: **The blessed event that we were anticipating when I saw you at Notre Dame has arrived. His name is Donald Eagene and he looks like a champion." 
Congrats. Bob! Bob stated that he had sent an announcement of the baby's birth to the PRANK O'aiARAH'S. and Prank's wife. Pat. replied because at the present It Is Major J. F. O'Marah, 098314. 8th Army Headquarters, Mili­tary Government Section, cfo P.M., San Fran­cisco. Zt seems that Frank will make his home at Yokohama for the next year or two and expects to have his family with him as soon as school Is out this spring. I give the complete address above, knowing that the O'Marahs will be glad to hear from some of the Thirties and a number of you will want to write. 
I send out again the old pica for help- Tou write it and we'll get it printed. 
MIKE FRONTCZAK Is in newspaper space 
sales with the "New York Dally Mirror.'* 
From BO RICHARDS: "I have been out 
here In Kansas City, Mo-, since Sept. 14. I 
teach business law and am line coach of the 
football team. I have seven years of coaching 
under my belt, but this teaching law business 
is new to me. Saw FATHER SWEENEY while 
he was here recently. I enjoyed visiting with 
him." 
DR. NICK MAURIELLO is chief of physical medicine and medical rehabilitation for the regional office of the Veterans Administration in Wilkes-Bar re. Pa. 
1931 ^^^"" ^ **• PHILIPP, 4 Pickwick 
• '^ ' Ijone, Neivton Square, Pa. 
MYRON HERSHFIELD, Goshen, Ind., nomi­nates for one Notre Dame man of tlie year. Al­derman NICHOLAS J. BOHLING of Chicago. A recent clipping from a Chicago paper states about Nick: "He has a good record for Inde­pendence, devotion to duty and for an effort to put the welfare of the city above the de­mands of special interest groups." 
Myron's other nominee is G. BENTLEY RYAN, '32, California lawyer, who served as a major In the AAF during the war. 
JOE GAVIN, formerly coach at Holy Name High school, Cleveland, has been named head football coach at the University of Dayton. He succeds HARRY BAUJAN, '17, who Is now ath­letic director. 
REV. ALFRED MENDEZ, C.S.C. who turned down an appointment to the XT. S. naval acad­emy to study for the Catholic priesthood, has been named procurator of the Holy Cross home missions. 
HOBIE SHEAN is now a field engineer for the northeastern section of Pennsylvania, repre­senting the Lewis-Shepard Co. He resides at 1617 Monsey Ave., Scranton 9. 
1932 JAMES K. COLUNS, 3031 W. 3nl St., Dayton, O. 
l5-yEAR REUNION 
MAY 30^1. JUNE 1 
From JIM COLLINS: CHARLEY PETRETIC has been named chairman of our 15-year reunion committee and will handle all the details of it in the campus and South Bend areas. He will be assisted by JOHN BOGNAR, AL BRASSEUR, ED EVER­ETT, JOHN HARRINGTON. HUGH McNAR-NEY. BUD MILLER. CHARLEY WEISS and RALPH WITT, all of whom live in South Bend. Charley has promised that he and his com­mittee will put on a program that will top all reunions of the past. Their plans so far call for a memorial service for deceased class­mates on the morning of Sunday, June 1. a party in the Oliver Hotel Friday night, a golf 

tournament and ball game on Saturday, and general attendance at the alumni banquet on Saturday night. 
They have been working with JIM ARM­STRONG and BILL DOOLEY of the Alumni Association to make It an outstanding week­end. In Charley's own words "We promise to do everything possible to make the occasion a successful and happy one." 
The University has given its assurance that there will be rooms in the residence halls for everybody- The committee hopes the *32 sec­tion will be filled to capacity. Anyone needing more particulars can reach Charley at 805 N. St* Louis Blvd., South Bend 17. 
Interest in the reunion brought letters from BILL WALTZ and PETE STREB who are prac­tically neighbors in Massillon. O. Bill is the auditor of the Ohio Merchants Trust Co. and writes that he has three boys and two girls whom he will stack up against anyone else's deductions. 
Pete was released from the Army last sum­mer and is living at 183 Crescent Road, Mas­sillon. He reports that he saw a number of fellows from our class at the Army game. 
STAN CZAPALSKI writes that BEN SAL­VATY has moved to San Francisco where he is personnel director for the Independent Pneu­matic Tool Co., and that BARNEY BARN­HART took in some prizes at the American Bowling Congress with his 225 average. 
See you at the Reunion! 

DON NELMES is back in civilian life after six years in the Navj-. He was seen at the N.Y.U.-Notre Dame basketball game in Madison. Square Garden. Don Is living out in Flushing. L.I., N. Y. 
GEORGE ZIMMERMAN Is credit correspon­

dent for Rolim and Haas Co., Philadelphia. 
3rr. and ilrs. JOHN A. JORDAN of N.Y.C., 

were recent White House guests of President 
and Mrs. Truman at a tea. John is a special 
assistant to Attorney General Clark. 
From JOE PETRITZ: "JACK HAMILTON Is still full of the spirit of adventure. Just back recently from six years In China and India, he has gone with the Chemical Construction Co. of New York and has flown back to Bengal to build a several-million dollar chemical pro­cessing plant. 
"He had been with the Chinese government in an aircraft assembly plant until the Nips flattened his building. He then went to Bom­bay to work for the Indian government In a similar capacity, supervising building of the plant. He decided things were getting too un­settled In India to warrant keeping his wife and three small children there any longer, so he brought them back. They will remain In his old home. Greenwich, Conn., during his current tour of duty. 
"Also had a nice visit recently with ED MEHREN, the Squirt king, from Beverly Hills, Calif. His grapefruit-based carbonated bever­age, launched in '38, Is thriving .. . at least judging from his collection of hand-painted neckties. He gets to New York three or four times a year. 
"EDDIE MORIARTY, '34. Is with the Holly­wood Turf Club, so-called because it is in In­glewood, and he is also club statistician for the Los Angeles Dons of the All-America Football Conference. He's doing publicity for the track. 
"JOE McCABE is doing public relations for Eastman Kodak In Rochester. N. Y. FRANK OBERKETTER, a camera bug when he was in scliool. liolds a b:g technical job with the same outfit." 
I Q9 ^ TIGHE WOODS, 9640 S. Damcn Ave., 
* '^^ Chicago 43, III. 
JOE SHEEKETSKI, former line coach at the University of Iowa, has been named football coach and director of athletics at the Univer­sity of Nevada. 
BOB BRUCKER has a new job. He is offlce manager of the George C. Clark Metal Last Co., Mishawaka, Ind., after serving in the same capacity for the Pearl Packing Co., Madison. Ind. 
CHARLEY UEDLAMD Is in the boildlnr business, dolnr general constractlon. work ID Pittsbargh. RAIJ>H GREER Is manager for the international Harvester Co.. Louisville. 
WALT BUCKLEY Is an Investigator, auditor and procedure analyst for the Hetropolltan Life Insurance Co., N.Y.C. 
FATHER FRANK GARTLAND'S address is: 114 East Second St., Los Angeles 12. Calif. He is helping FATHER PEYTON In producing the Family Theater program. 
FATHER VICTOR J. BOISVERT, CaC , !s doing mission work in Pearlington, Hancock Co., Hiss. He needs financial help for his Negro mission. Class members can aid the cause of Christ on earth by helping contribute to a most worthy cause. 
CHARLEY FARRIS is with the War Assets Administration in Dallas. Texas. CLHVB CAR­EY, recently in the Army, is assistant retail advertising manager for United-Rexall Drug Co. in N.Y.C. 
From BOB SULLIVAN: "I was a member of the class of '33.' originally from San Francisco and moved to Stockton in '36, after completing three years of law at Hastings College of Law. I have remained in Stockton since then and in 1940 became assistant district attorney, wtilch position I occupied until last year. I am now justice of the peace of Stockton." 
Here follows, in part, an Interesting letter from FATHER MAURICE E. POWERS, C.S.C., a major in the Chaplain's Corps in Europe: "Just a note from our Notre Dame alumni Club of Berlin. The holiday season was terribly busy for us with children parties, midnight Masses and the routine duties incumbent on a chaplain's life, especially since they have cut down the number of chaplains for Berlin. 
"We were pleased and honored to have His Eminence Cardinal von Preysing as celebrant for our Christmas midnight Mass. We have a few 'N.D. men here, and I must say tliat they are outstanding In their example and that is something rare in Berlin. JUSTIN KELLEY. 
M.S. *37. is the bead of the Metal Division of OMGUS and is on the Allied Commandantnra Council. JOHN. TOKICH is coming here to work with the Chemical Division. PAUL KEM­PER, '44. Is here also and EDWIN HARTRICH, correspondent for the *New York Herald-Trib­une,* is - stationed in Frankfurt and Berlin both." 
«Q^ ^ JOSEPH R. GI£MNOX, JB., Com­
•'^ ^ raeivial SolvenU Corp., 17 E. 4Sncl St. New York Cttj 17. 
From JOE GLENNON: Have recently received word from the fol­lowing: NICK GAMBOA is very happy in his native Cuba. PAUL I^aFRAMBOISE. father of two boys and two girls, resides in Canada. DAVE WALSH reports he has moved from western Pennsylvania to Lebanon. Mo. Dave says he has examined banks from. Texarkana to Philadelphia. 
How about hearing from some more of yon? The whereabouts of many have changed In the last few years. 
JOHN DeWILDE is a supply officer at the Naval Air" station in Atlanta. Ga. His rank Is lieutenant commander. 
A recent letter from FATHER DAYBERRY in San Antonio states that one of his parish­ioners is BOB BUTLER, who formerly lived In Cleveland. During the war. Bob was a major in the Army. He Is living with his family in San Antonio. 
A news release from Union City, N. J., tells us that WILLIAM C REXLLY. former general manager of the -MIlitarT Ordinariate under BISHOP O'HARA in N.Y.C, has been named promotion director for the "Sign," national Catholic magazine. Bill resigned from the Ordi­nariate staff in 1944 to enter the direct mail business in New York. He previously was em­ployed on the editorial staff of the former Newark (N.J.) "Star-Eagle." 
A letter from ANGUS McNEIL reads in part: 
"At present I am an instructor in New Eng­land College, Henniker, N. H. This college was opened last October, mainly for the purpose of extending to those G-I-'s, who couldn't gain admission to other colleges on account of great­ly increased enrollments, a chance to complete their education. We have rented the town hall for a school, and have five other instructors besides myself for a group of 150 students. "We are coming along nicely, but not quite ready to tackle Alma Mater on the gridiron." 
TRAXKUILS C. HOCUKEITER, 1327 

1935 
Pentwood Rd., Baltimore 12, Bid. 

From HOCH: 
As press time rolls around again we have two letters to offer. JIM PICK wrote from the Mayo Clinic, Rocliester, Minn., and STEVE BAN-AS (Law, '35) sent his epistle from Eben­ezer, N. T. We give the two letters to you. verbatim. Prom Jim comes the followine: 
"The only fellow here at the Clinic that I Icnow hailine from Xotre Dame is NACHTWBT, of the Class of 1934. 
"Preea from Army service after three and one-half years, I have been training in uroiogi­cal surgery under Drs. Braasch, Thompson. Emmet, et al. . . . After two and a half years with a General Hospital (the Cook County Hospital, Cliicago. afflliated unit). I Joined the 92nd Chemical Mortar Battalion on the conti­nent as Battalion surgeon. 
"It was good of you to print the news about ROT SCHOLZ in the 'Alumnus.' I presume that he is at the Wilmer Institute at Johns Hopkins. One favor I do ask. Can you obtain some in­formation on FRAK SCHLEUTJER? 
"The only news-that I can supply about mj-­self that is worthwhile is the fact that I have a beautiful and loving wife, who is kept very busy managing our two offspring. Peter and Karl. Peter is now two years and three months old. while Karl is Just Ave months old. Pete was bom while I was overseas, being nine and one-half months old when I returned. I thought I'd Just give you this bit of information in order to let Roy know that I'm one up on him." 
Jim continues in postscript: "I might add that my brother, JOHN P. PICK, has been teaching English at Marquette University for the past two years. He was in the class of 1933. Mj- brother, ED. has been practicing law with a firm in Madison. Wis., being kept ex­tremely busy—^also teaching night courses in law to tlie local bankers and real estate men. 
"TOM O'MBARA and STEVE O'MEARA are practicing law as partners in West Bend. Wis., where LEE GONRING Is also busy as a young and budding barrister. 
"LOUIS OTTMER is a furnace stoker sales­man for the Gehl Mfg. Co. in West Bend, Wis. JAMES O'MEARA Is a partner in the Sprink­man Corporation, dealers In dairy equipment, located in Milwaukee." 
Jim, Roy tells your scribe tliat wlien last heard from, FRAN SCHLEUTER was "Na^-y­bound" on the West Coast, somewhere. He is due through Iiere this spring. Roy is in private practice and head of ophthalmology at W^est Baltimore General Hospital. He continues his private research at Hopkins laboratories. 
STEVE BANAS writes about his recent ex­periences: 
"The February 'Alumnus' prompted me to write and to congratulate you and the wife on the new addition. 
"So far I still have my two girls, Dione 10, and Judy Ann 7. We are all in great shape and I scale at only 210 right now. Dorothy and I took In the last Army game and bumped Into a number of the fellows. I'm sure going to tr>* and make this year's game at South Bend. 
"For the past year I have been operating a restaurant and tavern here In Ebenezer. It's not too bad and I do have some dandy expan­sion Ideas. During the war I worke'd as an air­plane representative with Curtiss-W^right. Most of my time was spent at Army bases In the West and Southwest. .. . Last fail I coached St. Francis High of Athol Springs, N. T." 
Steve, tell Dorothy we like her stationery. Your scribe finds himself chairman of the 
N.D. Club of Baltimore's first Universal Notre Dame Night. We will celebrate it with a Monte Carlo Party at the Bonnie View Country Club. 
"Mrs. Hoch" Joins your scribe in thanking the many of you who wrote us when Hugh James' arrival was announced in our last col­umn. Hugh died on Feb. 17. 
JOHN' GLANZNER Is an editor in Trenton, 
III. JOHN EDWARDS, after serving four years In the Army Transportation Corps in West Africa, is now export traflic super\-isor for a New York concern. 
WILLIAJI J. O'CONNOR is working with the Department of Justice in Chicago. Speak­ing to the Modern Language Association mem­bers convening In Washington, D. C, recently. SIG SLUSZICA. teacher of English and pro­duction advisor to the Sewenhaka High School "Chieftain." (Floral Park. N. Y.) re­ported the progress that the Polish language is making in the -American public high schools. 
He reported 22 public high schools and 96 colleges and universities are teaching Polish in the U.S. today. After the meeting. Sig made a five-minute short-wave broadcast to Poland for the State Department. 
IQ3 ^ JOSEPH F. M.4NSFIEU>, National 
• '• " Braadcastiner Co., 30 Rockefeller Flara, Radio City, New Tork, >'. r . 
From LOU BUCKLEY, '28: "I saw one of my former students, JOE BARBER, in Erie recent­ly. Joe is practicing law with his brother, TOM, '24, in Erie. Since Joe was one of our Econom­ics major. I was glad to hear he Is helping out at Gannon College in Erie by teaching a class in Economics. Joe Is still single." 
GUY KULL is a salesman for Hearne Broth­ers, 2521 National Bank Bidg.. Detroit. Mich. REV. JOHN REGAN can now be reached at the Catholic Orphanage, Nazarotll, N. C. He is chaplain there for the children. 
FRED FLYNN is now with Hewitt-Robins, Inc., N.Y.C., In the sales promotion department of the conveyor division. 
JOE McGRATH has been named track coach at Gonzaga Uni%'ersity, Spokane, Wash. 
1 037 FRANK J. REnXY, Mac-Nair-Dor­
• '* ' land Co., 254 W. 31st St., New York City. 
lO-YEAR REUNION 
MAY 30^1, lUNE 1 

From FRANK REILLT: I wish I could wind up and pitch one of those wonderfully scintillating column leads that Paul Foley used to delight us with back in the days wlien he was hoIding^ down this hot corner. But, since I can't, we'll do the next best thing and take a look at a letter from one of the boys we havn't heard from since way, way back. The writer identifies himself as BILL GOMPER, '37, of 401 78th St.. North Bergen, N. J. Bill writes: "Just a 'quickie* to let you know that I'm still around and once in a while manage to think of the boys of *37. I have a pretty good Idea how much trouble it is to fill up a column periodically in the 'Alum­nus,' especially when you're not kept posted by the rest of us loafers. . . . "I enlisted in the army the first month of the war and after about a year or so as a 'dog­face' I found my way to OCS. Served In this countrj- and in England. France, Belgium, Hol­land, Germany and Austria, and (am) credited with three campaigns.: [That sounds as though it is pretty close to par for the course]. While In the army for four And one-half years I saw only one Notre Dameri He was JOE DROLLA. 
^

'37, of New Orleans. TVe were stationed nearby  
80 I went into town one week-end and looked  
him up. Joe, his lovely wife and I spent a very  
pleasant evening talking over school days.  
"I -n-as discharged a first lieutenant last May  
and after a long overdue vacation I went to  
work with the Prudential Insurance Co. as a  
special agent, which job I now hold. Our of­ 
fice is in Jersey City."  
We'd be delighted to see Bill and give you a  
first-hand report on how the past 10 years  
have treated him. Hop a Tube train and come  
right over. Bill—the ofiice is right across from  
the Penn Station.  
Another letter (really!) in February was  
from one of my favorite correspondents: BILL  
SHARP, JR., whose address is. as I mentioned  
In the February "Alumnus," 5335 Blmwood  
Ave., Mission, Kans. Bill writes: "We are liv­ 
ing in Mission, Kans., a suburb of Kansas City.  
We moved here from St. Louis in September.  
(BUI lived in New York up until the time he  
migrated west to St. Loo.) The N.D. club here  
in Kansas City Is verj- well run by VINCE De- 
COURSEY, '39. . . ."  
Bill mentioned that the St. Louis Club was  
presided over by one of our '37 stalwarts, al­ 
though, unfortunately, he didn't say whicli one.  C]  
Bill goes on to inquire If I recall the trip back  
home one June aboard the Nardone Pierce  
Arrow. Indeed I do. Bill, particularly that little  
episode that took place around Butler, Pa.  
He continues: "FATHER SWEENEY, C.S.C.,  
from the N.D. campus, made a very fine talk  
at the Kansas City N.D. Club dinner a few  
weeks ago. BILL TUNNEY (Corning, N. Y.)  
and BBRNIE MARTY (Decatur, 111.) both '37,  
were there from our class. Bernte with the sales  
division of a pharmaceutical house. I had lunch  
with him the following day, before he returned  
to his home In Decatur, III. [How about writing  
and giving us your marital status, if any, etc.,  
Bernle? You might also toll us what you hear  
from your old roomie, JLVRT HUSUNG.3 I  
plan to attend the class reunion, so please put  
my name on the reser\'ation list. If you still  
play golf, bring your clubs along and we'll play  
the course at N.D. . . .  
". -. Read In the 'N.Y. Alumnus* that FA­ 
THER CRONAJC F. KELLY, O-F.M.,* *37, left  
for Rome. In January I attended the wedding  
of CHARLEY DAVIS, brotlier of DELANCEY  
DAVIS, '37, In St. Louis. He was married to  
Mary Jane Dean and I was an usher at the  
big wedding. Delancoy hadn't changed at all.  
He lives near Philadelphia and has three  ^-•  
children.**  ^^?  
The mall during the month of March Included  
a card from WALT NIENABER, '37, of Cin­ 
cinnati. Walt writes: "A few of the '37 boys  
from the CIncy area planning to be at the re­ 
union are BERT SCHLOEMER, BOB BURKE,  
BILL PYE and myself. I see BUCKY JORDAN  
In Chicago often and he is going to be there.  
Incidentally, the Jordans were recently blessed  
with a baby girl. ED REARDON and RED  
ROONEY from Kansas City plan on being  
there. We are planning on getting adjoining  
rooms at the Oliver or maybe we could be as­ 
signed together on the campus. This Is a start  
for you» and I hope we have a real reunion with  
a lot of fellows there. How about JOE QUINN,  
TOM WHITE. BOB SIEGFRIED, JOHN LAU­ 
TAR and BILL STEINKEMPER?"  
I haven't heard from them as yet, but I have  
a hunch, most, if not all. of those lads will be  
in South Bend on May 30. 31 and Jtme 1.  
One of our classmates who won't be on hand,  
but will be very much missed by those of us  
who knew him, is FATHER CRONAN F. KEL­ 
LY, O.F.M. He sailed for Southampton aboard  
the "Queen Elizabeth" Feb. 20. From England  
he was to fly to Home. Father Cronan, as sec­ 
retary to Father Mathlas Faust, O.F.M., who  
was recently named Procurator General of the  
Franciscan Order, with headquarters in Rome,  
will be in Rome for the next three or four  ^ ,  

years. His address is St. Anthony College, Via W.' Menilana 124, Rome. Italy. Fm sure, being in a strange country, Father Cronan would be de­lighted to hear from, someone In the States, particularly any of his classmates. 
ED NEAHER of our class, who Is active In 
Volume 25, No. 2. April, 1947 
Notre Dame Club of New York affairs. Is chair­man of the club's retreat committee, which ex­pects to hold a retreat for club members at the Mount Manresa Jesuit Retreat House on Staten Island. I was down there last week-end, so I can strongly recommend to you members In this area the wonderful effects to be derived from one of these week-ends "away from things." 
Another piece of mail that came In just be­fore the deadline for this piece Is a note from VINCE HARTNETT on the letterhead of "The Christophers," a group of people interested In promoting literature and literary efforts in ac­cordance with Christian principles. VInce was married on Feb. S to Miss Doris Anne Rehm at St. Catherine's Church in Pelham, N. T. He recently returned with his bride from a honey­moon trip to Bermuda. VInce's name, again this month, appears over a sliort story he wrote for the March issue of "Sign" magazine. The name of the story is "The Way to the Heart." VInce is doing very well, and let's hope he keeps it up. 
Speaking of literary people brings to mind the name of JACK GILLESPIE, the Westfield. 
N. J., demon reporter turned publicity agent. Jack, as i may have mentioned, is doing pub­licity for the manufacturers of "decorative" not "functional" tile, and is employed by the large New York publicity firm of Carl Byoir Associ­ates. Having given up his army "career" and editorship of the Westfiold, N. J., weekly he edited before, and for a short time after, being In service, Jack hied himself to tlie "big city" where he hired himself out for a handsome stipend. He's come ever to my office and picked me up twice for lunch recently. Apart from having a few less hairs and not quite so much enthusiasm for Benny Goodman records, which he didn't mention even once at two luncheons, Jack has not changed one whit. Oh yes! since most of us last saw him, he has gathered unto himself one wife a::d one son. Other than tliat he can still play as fancy a game of softball as ever and hurl a football some 60 yards or so. Desert warfare Iiad practically no effect on this guy Gillespie. His lone lament—apart from a plea for larger living quarters—is Fo­ley's neglect of his letters. 
I don't recall whether Jack told me he had seen or heard about FRANK KOFCZAK, '37, who played some varsity baseball during our stay at N.D. The point is, liowever, that Frank was a lieutenant commander, I believe, serv­ing with the Na\*y during the war. 
Another '37er to show up m these parts late­ly is SEBASTIAN BONET, who hails from Barcelona, Spain. "Sabbic" was In town and at­tended one of the Tuesday luncheon get-togeth­ers. ED HUI3KING called me about It, but I had to miss it at the last minute. Incidentally, speaking of Ed Huisklng, I ran into Ed's fa­ther and brother BILL, '34, recently at a big drug and chemical dinner in New York. Tou may remember Bill Hulsking was quite a base­ball pitcher at school when we .were freshmen. 
At one of the more recent Tuesday luncheons I dined with JERRY GILLESPIE, '37, and JOE MANSFIELD, '36, among others and learned that JOHN DESMOND of our class had Joined Fawcett Publications In Greenwich, Conn., as an accountant. The last time I saw Johnny, be­fore the war, he was selling "Pocket Books;" 
As this is the final Issue of the "Alumnus" to appear before our Tenth Reunion, May 30, 31 and" June 1, I'd like to take this opportunity to remind you to circle those dates on your cal­endar pad and make every effort to be on hand for what should prove to be one of the most wonderful week-ends since we were graduated "many lon^ years ago." From all reports the 1947 Reunion promises to be the biggest and best thing of Its kind since before the war, and it will be, too, depending on how many of us participate. 
BULLETIN: JERRY CLAEYS, 451 S. Green-lawn Ave., South Bend, is local chairman for the reunion. You'll be hearing from him and his committee. 
AL ERSKINE is supertlntendent for the Linde Air Products Company in Davenport, la. HARRY MARR, end coach at Boston College since 1941, resigned recently. 
Thomas J. McForlane, ex. '39, Lansing. Miclu was declared dead by the Nary Department as of Dec, 15,1945. Tom« broth­er of Leo P. McForlane, '36, served os a pharmacist mate on the 0.S.S. Houston. 
From BOB WALDECK: "A brief note to bring you up to date on an old friend. PATJL RUBLY was married to Miss Mildred Zvler in the Catholic Church at Arcadia, Calif., on Feb. 
2. As you may possibly know, Paul was badly wounded overseas and spent about a year as a German prisoner. Since the end of the war he has been under treatment at various Army hospitals and am glad to say he Is looking and feeling fine again. 
"Yours truly was present at the meeting in the capacity of Paul's best man. Among those at the wedding and at the reception following was GENE C.\LHOUN, '33, who Is connected with Local Loan Co. in Los Angeles. Paul -will be back with Local Loan himself following his honeymoon." 
GLENN RICHARDSON, who was manager cf the U. S. Employment Ser\-ice office, Ander­son, Ind., has become industrial relations direc­tor of the Forse dorp, in Anderson. 
KEN LxVTTn'.iliR on Feb. S left his post as adviser and field representative for the Ameri­can Red Cross in Manila. During the war. Ken was stationed in the Philippine capital. He was assistant regional director of Red Cross activ­ities In Michigan and 'Wisconsin for two years prior to his overseas assignment. His home Is now in St. Louis, where he Is attached to Red Cross midwestern area. 
1 03 S ^^^^^^^ "^ •WTi.i.TATWS, 4323 Marble 
• '^* » Hal! Rd., Baltimore, Md. 

From HAL WILLIAMS: The boys must have been busy recently—too busy to send any news for the column. This month there are only two letters— the smallest contribution so far. NICK LAMBERTO, who Is state editor of the Journal-Tribune Publishing Company In Sioux City, la., writes that he has a "slight" correspondence with PHIL KIRCH, who is working for Household Finance in Mason City, la. He said he also saw JOHN BEER in Chi­cago last summer. TOM HUTCHINSON, writing from Bend. Ore., reports that he and his boss. GIL MOTY, attended a, rcorgantzatlonal meeting of the N,D. Club of Oregon. He plans to be in Indiana for several weeks in spring on a business trip and probably will see a number of the classmates. I'm sorry there's no more news to report. If you want news you must furnish It. How about 
some letters, fellows ? z mean, particularly* 
yoa men who have not written for years. 
PAT HcCARTY Is returning as head football coach of Centra] Catholic high school, Toledo, 
C . after servlnr as assistant at St. Ambrose College. Davenport. Ta. LT. JOHN FOGEL is with a medical bataUon at Camp Pendleton, Calif. 
BOB WEAVER has returned to his law prac­tice in Coshocton, O., after a tour of duty with the Federal Bureau of Investigation. His fam­ily now includes three candidates for St. Mary's. 
• ' * ' beih. KaoHM City S, 
Prom JACK GRIFFIN: "It's about time we get on the ball with more letters. It has been several years since X have written, but Uncle Sam had me on a Cook's tour for several years. Back in 1941, PAUL KELLEY was stationed at Scott Field and came out to the house to vlsit-me. I under­stand that he is back In South Bend now. At various times I bumped Into AUGIE BOSSU at Fort Monmouth. N .J., where he was a cap-^ tain in the Signal Corps, coaching football. * Several years ago I saw JOE McDERMOTT In Navy uniform in New York. While stationed at Washington, D. C, I ran into LARRY DOYLE. He was also on duty with the Signal Corps. 
"While driving my jeep in Luzon I met an 

M.P. officer by the name of 'Chicago DAN RYAN.* After the war I saw JIM RAAF sev­eral times in St. Louis, before he left for Peru. JIM McGOLDRICK flew into town one week­end. He was married In Philadelphia last Au­gust. Last summer I saw ED HUGHES in Chicago. 
"CHUB HALL was in St. Louis a few months ago and reports that ROD TROUSDALE Is now In Toledo, O. 
"We now have four members of the class of 

•39 in St. Louis.,.JACK SULLIVAN, formerly of Omaha, is living^ here and attending Wash­ington University Law School, from which he will graduate this spring. JOHN COURTER is attending Washington University Engineer­ing School. PRANK TULLY is purchasing agent for Rallston-Purlna Company, and I am. as­sistant secretary for the Mercantile Mortgage Company. Granite City. 111. 
"We missed our five-year reunion, so how about getting up a group for an informal re­union this year? Memorial Day will be a long week-end. so it should be easy to arrange." 
CHARLEY O'SIALLEY Is in the wholesale building materials business in Albuquerque, 
N. M. VITO BELLINO Is with the department of pharmacy at Columbia University, N.Y.C. GREG RICE, who holds the world indoor mark of 8:51 for the two-mile run. says that Gil Dodds will be best at 1.500 meters In the 1948 Olympics and shouldn't run longer races. 
AUGIE BOSSU, former Chaminade (N.Y.) high school football coach, has been signed for the head coaching spot at Cathedral Latin High School, Cleveland. Angle Is currently at­tending Stanford University getting his mas­ter's degree In physical education. 
MIKE SHANNON, out of the sanitarium after a long stretch. Is carrying on an agrres­slve one-man-boost-Notre Dame campaign in the Los Angeles area from his home at 4311 Victoria Park Drive. Los Angeles 6. where he is confined. How about a letter to him? 
• '^ W consia Ave., BDIwMdcee, Wis. 
BERT HENEBRY is with the Lux Clock Manufacturing Co., Waterbnry. Conn. He got down to New York for the N.Y.tT.-Notre Dame basketball game. ED MINCZESKI has his law offices in the Odd Fellows Bldg.. South Bend., effective Jan. 1. 
After -40 m.onths in the military service and two months with the adjudication division of the Veterans Administration, BOB SDLI*TVAN announced the opening of his office for the general practice of law in L'.ma, O- Bob is help­ing to organize a new Notre Dame club in Iilma. 
T>XVE HYDE Is ussistant production manager of the LaCrosse Trailer Corp.. LaCrosse, Wis. JIM DELAHENTT is a purchasing agent for the U.S. Rubber Co., Mishawalca, Ind. 
TOil MARKER, South Bend, former instruc­tor in English at Notre Dame, is the new St. Joseph county (Ind.) school attendance officer. 
PAT GORMAN has been appointed national membership director of the American Veterans of World War II and will spearhead a nation­wide membership campaign. 
1041 JOHN W. PATTEKSOX, JR., 5530 ' ' " • Dariin^ton Bd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
HERMAN ALTMAX, South Bend, is serving as an" instructor in engineering drawing at the Universty. JAMES ATLWARD is a law student at the University of Missouri. JOHN PROPECK is an internal revenue agent in California, living in Los Angeles. 
GEORGE JiARCUCCI is sales manager for the Gonnolla Bak'ng Co., Chicago. JIM HEXE­GHAN is an accountant in Seattle, Wash. 
I 049 WHXIAH E. SCANXAN, Rm. 833, II ' '^^ S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3, HI. 
5-yEAR REUNION 
MAY 30^1. JUNE 1 

From SCOOP SCANLAN: This is it—the last "Alumnus" that will be knocking at your doorsteps before the class of '42 stages that long-awaited reunion at N.D. the week-end of May 30-31, June 1. 
Everyone welcome — if by chance someone hasn't written or invited you, all are welcome. Come on down. See the changes, and get ac­quainted all over again with the many de-acti­vated servicemen of our class who have been scattered all over the world, gotten married, etc 
The dates again: MAT 30, 31. JUNE 1. By the way. PAUL NEVILLE, Mr. Neville now that he Is new to the ranks of the mar­ried citizens of South Bend, is general chair­man of the '42 affair. So send in your reser­vations to Paul, who currently scoops the Indi­ana area for the South Bend "Tribune." Write to him at the "Tribune," or if there Is anyone who doesn't know Paul, write to BILL DOOL­ET at the Alumni Office, Notre Dame. Ind.. asking either of them to make room for a *42er at the Big Reunion. 
TOM DEGNAN postcarded from Wilmington, Del,, on Feb. 17 to "Count me in on the Re­union." 
A week later later, CHARLET MACFAR­LANE, the transplanted Texan, wrote from Denver: 
"Your message in the 'Alumnus' for our Fifth Year Reunion is one which has long been await­ed. So far as I can see, I shall be there with the well-known bells on, and, I'm going to con­tact BOB LYSAGHT with the idea of going there with him. 
"You might like to know that VINCE BOR­YLA is here In the Army with two years to go 
' at N-D. He is looking forward to returning. Recently he has been playing with the Denver Nuggets of tae American Basketball League— a m.ember of the A.A.U., and he managed to score 26 points in a league game last week. He is getting good experience tor the team next year—or does he need it? 
"I have been working with the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation since last Augrust, following my return from the Army. It was necessary fof me to go back to N-D. fof one semester in order to graduate last June. I hope this doesn't disqualify me from offiical membership in the class of '42. There are quite a few N.D. men in Denver but no '42ers that I know of. BILL BARTON, of '39, is here, but where is JOE STEPHENS? My address—1375 High St., Den­ver G, Colo." 
A letter, dated Jan. 31, arrived in February from 1st Lt. JAMES J. LEAHY, then with the headquarters of the First Cavalry Division at Camp Drake (Tolcyo) Japan. He wrote: 
"As mcd:cal inspector for the First Cavalry Division near Tokyo, Japan, I find myself a long way from home but not too far for my copy of the Notre Dame 'Alumnus' to find me. t enjoy reading all the news as it is my only contact with a good many of the men from our class. V.'as a little disappointed In reading the December issue to find that the letter I wrote to you from Texas last summer was not Includ­ed. The reason most probably lies in the fact that I sent It to the wrong address. 
"While at the Army Medical Department .School at Fort Sam Houston this summer I had the pleasure to meet quite a few of the old gang again. There were four of us in the Fifth Basic Class including BILL FARRELL, W. B. (PETE) STEWART and FRANK SELLARS. In the Sixth Class were P. J. LOWNIK and LEO TURGEON. I have not had the pleasure or good luck to run Into any of the gang over here but will keep on looking. 
"The Important news that I wanted to re­port in this letter Is my marriage. I was mar­ried in the Post Chapel at Fort Sam Houston on 10 August 1946. My wife was formerly Katb-. erine A. Lillestrand of Minneapolis, Minn. JIM LOWNIK and his wife stood up for us and there were a few other Notre Dame men pres­ent for the ceremony. 
"Haven't had much contact with the fellows from our class but have seen BILL MEIER a few times in Minneapolis as he Is finishing up a postgraduate course In accounting at the University of Minnesota. The only other fellow I know of is PETE MOULDER who is working in a Veterans Hospital in California. That's all the news I have to offer at the present time since I am unable to pull any letters out of any of the gang." 
Jim's address: 1st Lt. JAMES J. LEAHY 047S647. Hq. 1st Cav. DIv.—Div. Surg's. Off., APO 201, c/o P.M., San Franc:sco, Calif. 
Come on, fellows. Tliose who know Jim, let's write. 
From 2910 Chesapeake Ave., Hampton, Va., came a letter dated March 3, from BOB HAR­RINGTON: 
"I've just been reading about the class re­union in the 'Alumnus.' It Interests me very much and right now I'd like to get some par­ticulars [See this 'Alumnus'—Ed.] If everything works out o.k., I hope to be In South Bend for the reunion. 
"I saw SLUSH RICHARDS' letter In the last 'Alumnus' and also saw Slush at the Penn after the Army game. However, he didn't men­tion anything about be!ng married so that came as rather a surprise to me. Also ran Into STE\''E JUZWIK on the way to Mass Sunday morning. He was looking just the same as ever. DON GUYETTB and the Mrs. were also there as were about half of the class of '42." 
Now let's shift over to the laws'er doings, by way of a report from Mrs. Ijora Lashbrook: 
"Anticipating the five-year reunion in May, it seems in order to report the whereabouts of a half dozen of the 1942 graduates who are now undergraduates in the law school. They are: TOM MILLS, BERNARD WASILEWSKI, JOHN HALLECK. TOM TEARNEY, BYRON HAYES and MIKE HINES­
"LOUIE ANDERSON Is adding to his legal education by attending classes In tax law this semester. Louie is living In South Bend with his family. 
"BIIJL HOSINSKI was a visitor In the law school. He Is doing a nice practice In South Bend. 
"A rumor has reached us to the effect that TIM MAHER Is soon to Join the ranks of the benedictSL JIM McVAY also announces his plan to be married to That Girl in Michigan within a few weeks. 
"JIM DIVER Is visiting us this week (March 21), having'just completed the Illinois bar ei­amlnationa. 
"JACK MEYER also wrote the Illinois exam­ination this week as did PETE ALONZI." 
GEORGE SOBEK again jumped Into the limelight of the National Basketball League when he tallied 33 points, a season individual scoring record In the league. JIM BRUTZ, last year with the Chicago Rockets of the All-America league, has announced his retirement to take over a sporting goods store in Warren, O. 
Dr. JOE BERGAN Is still In the army. He Is currently stationed at Brooke General Hospi­tal, Fort Sam Houston. Tex. BILL MORROW -. is with the Reynolds Metals Co., Tampa, Fla. ^ 
BILL McAULIFFE, Oak Park, 111., Is spend­ing a great deal of his time at Vaughan Gen­eral Hospital. Hines. III., these days. He Is there due to battle fatigue, but is improving and should be discharged before too long. How about a letter to him? 
Four of the basketball playing SOBEKS of Hammond. Ind., were members this year of as many quintets . . . GEORGE was with the To­ledo Jeeps of the National Basketball league; JOE, who was a member of the Irish squad In 1943 before entering the air forces, was back with the varsity; ANDT, a N.D. squadman in 1944, was with an army air base team in Bal­timore and Frankie starred with the Ham­mond high school five. 
BOB MULIANEY is employed with the Grumamn Aircraft Engineering Corp., Beth-page, LI-, N. Y. He is working in the Flight Test Dept. DR. JOE JUDGE is stationed at the Veterans Hospital. Swannanoa. N. C. 
DON MARTIN is sales manager for his fa­ther's concern, the Martin Box and Barrel Co.. Toledo. O­
HERB NILLES Is an electrical engineer with the Engineering Research Associates, St. Paul, Minn. 
From LEO LEE: "This past year since my release to Inactive duty from the Navy has been a busy one. Since February ha\-e been em­ployed by Joseph T. Ryerson and Son. Inc.. a steel warehouse, working for six months as a sales trainee and since November assigned to a territory covering northern Illinois and Wis­consin to Milwaukee, as an inside sales repre­sentative. Within two weeks, Tl\ commence a new assignment as a. salesman in the Special Steels Division, covering the distribution and sales of engineering and specification steels. For a man who did not follow the excellent metallurgical courses at Notre Dame, my sched­ule has included many technical lectures and finally entrance into the American Society for Metals to assist me in my work. It is interest­ing and believe my selection for a career a good one.'* 
m OA 9 EDWAKD C. nONET, 17S3 Iroquois 
i '^9 Ave., Detroit, aiicta. 
From ED RONEY: Happy Easter to all the class and any others who might read this! 
The first order of business Is that big mistake ^\_ of last issue. After ED HICKEY had bawled W^ me out, and several others had written, I re­alized that it was BILL BRADY'S father and not his mother that died some time ago. Tve apologized to Bill and his mother, and now Tm doing the same to the class. 
Volume 25, No. 2, April, 1947 
Either before this issue arrived, or with it. you've all received the oiricial returns of the Fourth Annual Alumni Fund. I don't Icnow the exact results but, even so, i feel sure that *43 will come in for some congratulations. We've never failed as yet to appear somewhere near the top. The alumni oOicals last fall expressed a good deal of enthusiasm about the annual showing of the "yourgor** classes. 
So. let's keep thoni enthused, and, if we aren't on top this year, then there's always 1947 and the Fifth Annual Fund. 
Time to stop for a letter! It's from RAT SCHOONHOVEN' whose address these days is r.lO Seneca St., Elgin, III. Ray writes: 
"In reply to your "recent* mimeo letter of April *46 [recent meaning within the last year, so as not to make me look so bad], I wish to say, I'm sorry as the devil I haven't written sooner. . . . I'll say. however, i tnink it's damn fine of you to give your tinie to the column for the class. I certainly enjoyed reading it during aild since the war. 
"A brief recap on myself. I was commissioned at Abbott Hall. Was stationed there; while there was married to Marie T. Dunn of Chi­cago. Wo have a daughter 2S months old whose name is Maiie Kathleen. 
"From Abbott Hall I went to Melville, R, I., to M.T.B. S.T.C.. and from there to M.T.B. Hon 20—in the Philippine Islands. After my boat was de-commissioned, I was transferred aboard the P.T. boat tender AGP-11, TJ.S.S. Silenus, and wound up my naval career as exec, putting her out of commission too. Thence to Great Lakes and out last spring. 

"In June '4C I entered X.U- law school, down­town campus—right back at Abbott Hall, It's a hell of a lot of work, but X think it's for me, so I'm doing the best I can. .. . In two to three weeks, I should have even more to occupy me. . . . We are eagerly awaiting our second child. 
"I don't see very many of the lads. There are a couple at the law school, not In my class, and not from N.D. *43. .. . I see JI5I MADI­GAN, who Is working for Hasklns and Sells, occasionally. He was my best man and now he is to be married; as soon after Easter as the Church will allow. 
"Do you happen to know anything about ED NICHOLS, or ZIGGY SANDOM? They were my roommates In Alumni." 
Thanks for the letter, Ray, and no letter is too late. Congratulations on the wife and daughter. No word from Ed or Ziggj'. 
The next Important subject is the annual Alumni Reunion on the campus the week-end of May 30, 31 and June 1. Last year some 15 of the class showed up and had a really good time talking over old times. There were din­ners together and a big bull-session party that was a knockout. All decided then to return this year. But 15 is a poor showing. Lot's make it 150 this year, and then the whole class at the five-year reunion, when '43 will be an honored class, next year. 
If you'll drop me a line as soon as you know you're going, I can arrange a room for a bigger and better party for Saturday night. 
Another letter from STEVE ENSNER, who sits out these cold winters (and summers too) at 15271/2 Fosen Ave., Berkeley, Calif., and Steve has this to say: 
"The only member of the class of 1943 that I hear from is JIM JIcELROT, still with ABC in New York at the last writing. I hope to swing East in May or June, and get a chance to visit the campus. How about putting the names and addresses of some of our class, that are continuing their studies at N.D.? I think that other follows might appreciate it also. Would fill up a portion of your 'Alumnus' col­umn also. .. . Do me the favor of enclosing the Chicago addresses, and phone numbers, if available, of LEE RAYMOND and DAN STEW­ART. I hope to stay a few days in Chicago, and surely want to look them up. 
Always glad to supply addresses, Steve, and how about timing that trip to make the re­union? Dan was there last year and Lee told me he wouldn't miss this one for anything. Thanks for the good word, and I'll include names as soon as I can get them. Most have already been listed. 
Do have one more bit, however. JOE TRIL­LING sent me an announcement of his en­trance into the benedicts* group. The name of the girl who played the other leading role es­capes me, as does the announcement. 
Which news does end this sad column. Let­ters WILL improve it! 
JOHN N. WALSH is a freshman at the Georgetown Med School, Washington, D- C. JIM DELANEY is teaching at St. Ignatius high school In San Francisco. 
1944 Rd.. I>etroit 23» Mich. 
From JOHN LYNCH: 
Thanks to a renewed interest on the part of 

its correspondents, the column is slowly drift­
ing back to Its better ways. But before we dig 
Into the class mall bag. let's hearken to the 
cheerful words of BILL DOOLEY, assistant sec­
retary of the Alumni Association. Prom the 
Main Building at Notre Dame comes his trib­
ute to the class: 
"There hasn*t so far been any class contribu­tion report put out to cover the entire Fourth Annual Fund for 1946. Just for your informa­tion, however, I am glad to pass along these figures: 1944 was on top, with a participation of 65.4 per cent. The average 1944 contribution was $10.46, for a total of $3,463.10. Congratula­tions on another outstanding job." 
And just for the record, we can look back and see that the class of 1944 led the Third Anual Fund with a participation of 68.4 per cent and ran a close second In the Second An­nual Fund with 52.6 per cent. 
And now the mail. Wandering BOB MAR­TINA wrote on Jan. 16 from the Naval Air Station at Olathe, Kans.: 
"Much has happened since I last wrote, though I have no news yet on my regular Navy deal. I took a hop to Indiana not long ago for a GCA demonstration and had plans to go on to Cincinnati, but the boss had other ideas. I arrived back at the Patuxent base In time to take over for the next 24 hours, with the bad weather situation. I went to Argentia, Newfoundland, the latter part of November, and how I would dislike to be stationed there. Spent a week there checking out the GCA unit. 
"I'm out in Kansas for three months now, and will return to Patuxent as soon as I am through here. I checked In here a week early, so was able to get the rest of the way home and have six days in good old Denver. 
"Around New York give my best to BILL CAREY, BILL SNYDER and the Sweet Briar demon. JACK WOELFLE. And when you write, my best to HERB CLARK In Chicago. And does any one know where TOM COONEY Is now?" 
A newcomer to the column is DICK BRYDGES. who gives his address as 1530 Vir­ginia Ave., Charlottes^'ille, Va. Dick wrote on Jan. 16: 
"Have just got hold of the December Issue of the 'Alumnus,* and was amazed to note all of the fellows' names that I recall. Reading of them brings them back very distinctly. But I was equally saddened when I read of the war dead, so many of whom I knew. 
"As for me, I am just polishing off my last year of Law School at the University of Vir­ginia, and I have been married to a sweet llttU southern girl for almost two years. I spent three and a half years In the Field Artillery as a forward obser\'er, taking iu the Pacific pretty thoroughly. 
"I see ED DRINKARD in Lyncliburg pretty often." Always good in a pinch Is HERB CLARK, who came through again on Keb. 10: "I'm just about recovered from a very rough week-end two weeks ago when we got BILL 
SYNDER all married and on his way back to New York—via two weeks In Miami. 
"Since I last wrote I have become a father, the yonni; lady having arrived on Dec. 3, 1946, and answering to the name of Patricia Anne. J really feel old now. But the younger generation —^ED ALTENDORF'S one-year-old son is al­ready sending her presents." 
JOHN COWLEY Is back at Notre Dame, and wrote on Feb. 15: ; 
"Just a short note to let you Icnow how things are coming along, i returned to school Jan. 22. and, although I have been having a time hittinc; the books, I believe I'll make the grade. As you mnst know, the old rules are re­laxed some. Even St. Mary's Isn't too bad so far. I went over for the Junior Prom last night, -with a very cute trick for a date. Sur­prises never cease! 
"Many of the old gans are still around- JIM CUNNINGHAM dropped in yesterday at 109 Walsh." 
Another welcome newcomer to the column is CHARLIE FROBERGER, also writing from Notre Dame. Charlie gives his address as 516 Allen St., South Bend 16. The date is Feb. 23. 
"I was discharged from the Navy in June, 1946, as a pharmacist mate second class. My last 18 months of duty were spent at the Neuro­psychiatric Hospital at San Leandro, Calif-, and while there I occasionally met TOM 'CTTRLT' KELLEY, who was a pharmacist mate at Oak Knoll Naval Hospital at Oakland. 
"I returned to Notre Dame in September and am now in the graduate School of Chemistry. This semester I was fortunate in securing a teaching fellowship. 
"There are quite a few of our buddies of '44 back, either in graduate work or to finish np for their degrees. VIC COLLETTI, TREID EICHORN. EDDIE FREDERICKS, and ED CTR are back to finish their work. Amon^ those doing graduate work In'Chemistry or Chemical Engineering are: DICK BENNING, EARL EN­GLERT, JOE McMANUS. JOE SIMONS, JIM CONSTANTIN, PET^ EVESLAGE and StAN-DELL ZE^GLER. 
"I have heard from HANK DEWES, who spent a good deal of time on Okinawa and In the Pacific. He Is now employed in the labora­tory of the International Harvester Co. at Ev­ansville, Ind. I have also heard that BOB CAMERON is a dental officer In the Army, sta­tioned at Pearl Harbor. 
"Can anyone tell me what has happened to BOB BEIGEN, JOE EATON, JERRY LCX^. BARDI and GUS LEGEAY of our group?" 
And while those four men just mentioned are getting out pen and paper to write to Charlie, we'll go on with the column. Out of Louisville, Ky., Feb. 26 has come a card from Floy Meagher, wife of JIM 9IEAGHER. It ex­plains itself. 
"My husband Is working so hard these days that'he asked me to write. The news with us Is that we have a baby girl, Mary Glen, bom Dec 16. We are living in Louisville now, at 2421 Cherokee parkway, and Jim Is working for Straton and Terstegge Co. 
"Madelyn and PRANK STUMPF stopped by to see us the week-end of the N.D.-Kentncky basketball game, and we had a big time with them and FRANNIE CURRAN and TOM BRENNAN.'* 
Now over to Cleveland, where TOM BREMER has managed to get his name on the letter­head of Kennedy and Frost, attorneys. Tom wrote March 6: 
"I am gettlnif plenty of csrperlence and the law Is something that I like very much. While I was nervous when I tried my first case about a month ago, it seems like nothing compared with some cases I have coming up. 
"BILL MULLIGAN Is working In the account­ing department of Fisher Foods, Cleveland's largest grocery house. Yesterday I ran into TOM TADROSS from Meadville. Pa. He was on his way to Notre Dame, and later will go to Berlin, Germany, where he has taken a Job with the War Department* 
"Received a letter not long ago from NOR­BERT 'BEEZ* WTJEKLINSKI who is practic­ing law in East Chicago, Ind. The last I heard of BUZZ HASSETT he was working for a radio station in the mid-west. WTiat has happened to him since then?" 
If Buzz is within reading distance, let's hope he'll drop a line to Tom or the column, or both. 
The mail thins down right about now, but from JIM CUNNINGHAM we received this en­couraging line: "ED CASHMAX'S new musical sliow is a big success around N.D. right now.'* That was written March 7 and the show liad been playing several days then. Jim, by the way, is business manager of the Fides Publish­ers, a new Catholic publishing'house in South Bend. 
JACK ALEF, '45, who is back in Alumni Hall, sent a short note early in February that everj'thing was under control. 
Following the death, of his mother in Fort Lauderdale, we had a note from JIMltX CRO\VLEY of Spartanburg, S. C. Mrs. Crowley had made several of the football games, and will be remembered by many of the class. And. more especially, by the many N.D. men who went through Camp Croft. S. C, in 1943, where Mrs. Crowley was very active in USD work. 
And now for the items that have been collect­ing on tlie backs of envelopes. BILTJ NICHOIJ­SOX, '43, has moved from South Bend to Staten Island and is training as a salesman for Acme Visible Records. HOWIE GARRIGAX is selling ad space lor the Baker's "Weekly on East 45th St., New York. JERRY BROWN is an account­ant with a pri\-ate concern in the Margery Hotel Building, New York. FRED PAHREN­DORF. '45. of Scaredale, N. Y., was in the big city recently looking for the better jobs. JOE GALLAGHER and BILL HERZOG. '43. were seen among the crowd getting in for the last few shows of "Toplitzky of Notre Dame," which closed with a thud in New York. Joe is strug­gling with the law at Fordham University. Others there are BILL O'CONNOR and TOM CARTT. '41. 
LARRY STAHL. USN, ^se d through Detroit on Feb. 14 on his way to San Diego. He had been in New York and we were sorr>- to miss him. JOHN POWERS, *43, was last seen at the Eastern Airlines news bureau. AL ZOILO and JOHNNY BOYLE, '43. can be seen everj* Fri­day noon having dinner at the Del Pezzo on West 47th St. Al is still with D'Andrea Bros.. tailors, and Johnny is with ASCAP, the music people. 

Seen at recent meetings of the Notre Dame Club of New York: JACK KELLY, a recent law>'er. CHARLIE "RED" McCAFFERTY. new­lywed BILL SNYDER, AUSTIN JONES. DAN STEVENS. ED DOWLING, LARRY SCHATZ­LETN, and TED TOOLE. 
Ted passes along word that JOHN DERRICK of Cincinnati recently married Jean Gilllgan, sister of JACK GILLIGAN, '43. Also that JACK McSWEENEY, who will graduate from Johns Hopkins in June, has been accepted as an in­tern at Cincinnati General Hospital. 
Which brings us to the last item of the col­umnr* recent graduates. As we understand it, there was no graduation ceremony in January, but the many men who finished strongly were Invited to return in June HOT a joint ceremony with the June graduates. 
The Washington's Birthday program carried CIO names as members of the "Class of 1947," but.we understand only 221 of these men fin­ished in Januar>'. The rest will be the actual graduating class of Juno. And spread among the 610 names we have been happy to recognize at least 58 who were originally members of the Class of 1944. Some of these men have kept up their allegiance to *44, and we hope the otliers will follow suit. 
We make no pretense of this list being accur­ate or complete, but here are certain of the 
•44 men who are January graduates or will be June graduates: 
College of Arts and Letters: DON BIRREN. BOB HDRNS, JIM CARLIN. PAUL CARR. KELLY COOK, JIM DACEY, LEO DONATI, DAN DOWNEY. TOM DUFFY. RED FAGAN. 
GERALD HOGUE. JACK HUPF, STAN KUD­
LACZ, JIM LLOYD. BOB McBRIDE. DON­
NELLY MCDONALD, CHUCK PATTERSON, 
WALLY ROMIT O and GENE TRINKLEY. 
Department of Physical Education: ANGELO 

BERTELLI, JOHNNY NIEMIERA and JACK 
TROY. 
College of Science: ANTHONY BILOTTI, ED 

FREDERICKS, and BERNIE O'HORA. 
College of Engineering: VIC COLLETTI, ED 

CYR. FRED EICHORN and JOHN GULDAN. 
College of Law: JOE FARMER, AL FINK. B.\RRETT GUTHRIE. FRED HOOVER, JOE L.\NE and JOE RUDD. 
College of Commerce: JOHN DUFFY, ED GALLAGHER, FRANK GIORDANO. GEORGE GRIMM, JOHN HICKEY, JIM HUBBARD, MYLES KELLY, CHARLIE KOEGLER, DICK LEON, BOB MacDONNELL, HARRY MER­CER, BOB MILFORD, "BLACK JOHN" MUR­PHY, ED NUGENT, JOE PONS, JOE RIGNEY, ELMER SILHA, JERRY SKOFRONCK, GENE SLEVIN. TOM TADROSS. JACQUES VEENE­MAN, BILL WYLIE and AL YOUNGHAUS. 
This is the best list we can give you for the present. In the Science and Engineering col­leges we have probably overlooked some names. Maybe other places. And we may be guilty of stealing a name or two from the original class of 1945, some of whose names have a familiar ring. 
That's all for now. If you're '44, let us hear from you. 
ANGELO BERTELLI, passing ace of the Los Angeles Dons of the All-America football con­feri^nce, played defenseman for the Springfield, Mass., Braves hockey team this past season. 
PHIL MEYERS is with the Goodyear Air­craft Corp in Akron. O. BOB BECK Is in the drama department at Yale University. He Is working for his master's degree in drama. BOB GRIESEDIECK is now assistant brewmaster and engineer at the Griesedieck Brothers Brew­ery in St. Louis. 
GERRY G-\FFNEY is working with the treas­urj* department, American Telephone and Tele­graph Co.. New York. He reports his wife and son. Mike, are in the best of health. CHARLES MERRILL is (or was) the flag sec­retary. First Troop Transport Command, Staff. ComTransRon, One, Flagship, c/o Postmaster, San Diego, Calif. JIM MALONE is working as an accountant for Libby-Owens-Ford-Glass Co., Toledo, O. DAN FOLEY is out of service and back in Dallas, Texas. 
The books of the late Lt. JOHN J. BISHOP have been sent to the University library. An­other item received by the University was the flag of the late NORB ELLROTT. The flag has been turned over to FATHER CRADDICK. pre­fect of religion, for preservation until such time as the Memorial Chapel plans are prefected. 
KELLY COOK is working as public relations director for the Sioux City Army Air Base, Sioux City. la., a small detachment offering re­serve training to former Air Force aircrew members. He will return to the campus in June for his degree. 
I Q^ C JAMES W. SCHAEFFEK, F. O. Box 
• '^^ 36», Schenectady, N. Y. 
From JIM SCHABFFER: 
The number of letters in the old mailbox dropped off this month. Come on. gang, take the pen in hand and let the rest of us know what's become of you. 
For myself—took a qu'ck trip down to the big city to see the N.D.-N.Y.U. game. 'Twaa quite a game. Happened to run across Kay Landing sitting a few rows behind me—Kay used to work In the Library on campus. After the game I just had time before train time to dash over to the Commodore for a short one with Kay, Susie Grace, WALTER KENNEDY'S (former N.D. publicity director) secretary ot campus, and FRANK KOWALSKI, '46. Kay is now a stewardess for Pan-Am., Susie te at the Army game. Jack Is back out at school m) now. ' 
Walt Kennedy's secretary In New York, where  ^  
Walt is now with a pro-basketball league, and  
Frank Kowalski Is with an Importing firm in  
New York. Kay reports that a number of N.D.  
men. includirg OLLIE HUNTER and TONY  
EARLY, are with Pan-Am.  
One of the ROTC came up with a letter this  
manth—TERRY E. WILS'oN. Terry said he  
didn't have much rows but proceeded to come  
up with quite a bit. "The class I graduated  
with was the ROTC group of February, 1945,  
and since that time I've seen quite a few of  
them around here and there. Nearly all of them  
are out of the Navy now. Last September, Sec­ 
tion 5 of that RO graduating class held a re­ 
union in Chicago, attended by 10 of the original  
20 members of the section. Present were LEE  
GRABER. now attending school at Wheaton  
College; BOB PAYNE, at Purdue now; TOM  
CARMODY. back at No.re Dame; M. A. JOHN­ 
SON, who was working in Clilcago the last I  
heard; PAT LYNN, also working in Chicago;  
FRANK MILLIGAN. now at Har\-ard Law  
School; JEAN BRAUWEILER, at Notre Dame;  
DON CURRENT, now in Chicago; KEN THOM­ 
AS, attending Wayne University, and myself. I  
am sure many people at Notre Dame will re­ 
member of the First Class Specials who trans­ ^  
ferred to the NRDTC from the V-12 and had  %\  
to do double duty to graduate with the old  
class of first classman. We had a swell time in  
Chicago, and we plan another reunion on Labor  
Day of this year.  
"At present I am attending Texas Tech here  
In Lubbock, tak'ng pre-law work. This time  
next year I hope to be in the University of  
Texas Law School.  
"Another member of Section 5 of the same  
ROTC class is CHARLES R. TURNER. Chuck  
Is studying the vioI*n at JuU'ard Music School  
in New York." Tlianks. Terry—and let's hear  
from some of the other RO men.  
ELMER GILLESPIE dropped a line from  
Washington, D. C, to say he's been at George­ 
town Medical School since September, 1945, and  
Is now a sophomore. "The work is exceedingly  
rough, but is what I want. I'm still single, not  
from choice but from necessity. LARRY FROST,  
BOB VALESTIN, JOHN MEYER, and BOB  
BURNS, all ex-N.D. men. are in the junior  
class down here. I was rooming with JOHN  
BRESNAHAN when I first came here In Sep­ 
tember, but John left after a month, has been  
overseas, and Is now back home In Lawrence,  
Mass. Had a card from him at Christmas.  
"Hear from BOB RIORDAN every month or  ff^  
so. He's a vice-consul in Africa. He sent me a  
picture of himself stalking water buffalo,  
which is a cry back to the old days of hunt­ 
ing at the 'Rock' across the road."  
Another very complete report on the metHcal  
profession came in from OWEN W. DOYLE.  
"Since 1943 I have been at Yale Med School  
with PAT TOKLAVICH and BROCK LYNCH,  
who are also in their senior year. JIM COON­ 
EY and BOB OWENS graduated from Yale  
Med last April. Dr. Cooney Is now interning at  
St. Alban's Naval Hospital, and Is on his way  
towards marriage. BILL DINNEN graduated  
from Michigan Med School in December.  
"Saw JOHN DOWLING last month In Phila­ 
delphia. He and BILL COUGHLAN are seniors at Jefferson Medical School. Bill Is now a  
daddy.  
"Had a litter from Brother Pat, who is now  
In Texas. t»AUL WALCZAK, ex. '45. Is now in­ 
terning in New Yo:k City Hospital. Being In  
New Hiiven I see JACK WARNER, ex. '43, oc­ 
casionally. Jack. Pat Yoklavich, and myself saw  
the Navy and Army games. After I get out of  
Med School In June 1 n-Iil be In Buffalo."  
JACK TERRY got a chance to write in the  
hetween-semester lull at Syracuse Law School.  
"Met JACK ALEF, my old roommate, and sev­ 
eral of the fellows that lived near us In Dillon  

"PHIL FOOTE, of Cortland, drops in every once in a while, although he hasn't since his orchestra was playing up In the Adirondacks. Ran into BROCK LYNCH at the Rally at the Waldorf. 
Volume 25, No. 2, April, 1947 
"ED BURKE, a native South Bend boy. is working here In Syracuse and is an engineer with the Cnrrler Air Conditlcning Corp. PAUL 
W. KELLY, '42, has just ueen promoted to general manager of the local Studebaker dis­tributorship." 
Prom JIM KEI«^EDT: "After working as a reporter for eight months with the City News Bureau here tn Chicago, I managed to get an opportunity to enter the publlicity field with the Board of Education. Writing feature stor­ies, sports, etc.. arc my tasks and they usually keep me busy. In regard to the marriage ques­tion, I. or It should be we, have set May 17 of this year as tlie date, be'ing ver>- optimistic about finding a place to live. The girl Is also from Chicago, Rosemary Hea-y by nan^e, and Irish of course. 
"JOHN RINELLA Is now practicing law in the "Windy City along LaSalle St. FRANK KENT is now work'ng for a broker's firm In Chicago after spending some time at the De-Paul Law School. JOHN POWER recently passed his bar exam and is dividing his time between the law and his fiancee in Cleveland. 
"PRANK PAULSON. '46. also passed his bar exam and was married only a couple of weeks ago to a local girl. Incidentally, she is a law­yer, too. Going back to the class of *33, my brother. Tom, Is back as manager of a loan company after spending over three years In the army as an infantry captain." 
ERNIE RAUSCHER, corporal that Is, writes from Westover Field Mnss.: "Remember that night in October, 1945? Well, that w s my last rocollrctl-n of civilian 1 fo. A short time after, I enlisted 'n the Army Air Corps, and had fin­ished seven weeks' training in North Carolina I'lus sonie administrative work at Westover Field before th^ fi:st of the year. Because the life was du 1 I'nd showed Tttle promise I went to pre-flight Fchool at West P.ilm Beach. Fla. And, within five weeks I wns a full-fiedged crew member. During the w'nter months we crewed ou' of Jlorrison Field. Fla., flying to Panama City. Puerto Rico, Brrzl, Cuba. As-c*-:^ion Islands, and Dakar, Africa. But, when ine summer months sta-ted to roll around I de­cided to fly north—just like the birds do! For two months I flew the Northern routes covering the Arctic clrrle, Inc'uding Labrador, New­foundland. Iceland, and the numerous outposts the AAF has in Grefnl'*nd. witliln some 400 miles of the North Pole. Sandwiched in between these first two aFS"gnments. however, was a pleasant tour cf the U.S.A., fi.virg with the airshows based at Washington National Air­port. We traveled all over the states, and gave the public an Intere-^ting demonstration of air evacuation, how It was managed during the war, the new P-SO's. B-29's in battle array, the Black Willows, etc. All very interesting and successful. 
"My g eat est thrill came early In the sum­mer when I went to th:; ETO. For. other than set ing every capital of Importance, I managed to meet my distant relatives In Paris and Ger­many. I hit Parrs, Berlin. Rome, Prague, Vien­na. Brussels, London (for a couple of hours). Frankfurt. Amsterdam, etc. And. I managed to see the eroimous armaments at Gibraltar, I flew for the European Air Transport Service out of Paris, as far as Cal.-o. and then out of Rome, ns far as Karachi. India. But. these latter flights were for a verj' short period of time (sometimes only long enough to fuel up and return). I motored (by jeep, truck, passenger car. and thumb) all over Germany and Ba­varia, in order to see my great-uncle and dis­tant cousins, and saw the total destruction of Germany as it really Is at the present time— not as the stories range in the papers. 
"Through a farce, a lie, and a threat I man­aged to get back to the States for the Army game; but my short-lived pleasure was not complete. Within 48 hours I was on my way to Goose Bay, Labrador. Now. since 76 days remain to go, I am back In the states, and shall enjoy the Ice and snow of Massachusetts. D—for discharge-Day Is April 23, 1947. 
"I have some 125- to 150,000 miles to my credit, and about 800 flying hours, but It's good to be home. I'm counting the days till I can cliange once again to the plaids and stripes (lengthwise) of college days. And, 'I shall re­turn' to N.D. this spring. 

"I've been in con'.nct with GEORGE DESPOT (he was stationed In Marburg. Germany, and though I never had a chance to see him. I knew of his whereabouts and corresponded with him regularly. He should be out by now); NICK COMMISA (who is trying .to make an appointment with the secondary schools of Newark, N. J.); RUDY LOPEZ (who has set­tled down and Is working with his father In El Paso); JOHN POWER, and DICK MAR­TIN (who is a law student at Santa Clara, and writes that the life, studies, campus, and weather are wonderful." 
The last letter this month was a very inter­esting one from JIM SCHWEICKERT. Jim was Brother Vincent Ferrer on the campua. and prefected in Brownson and Carroll. He was dispensed from the Community in June, 1945. and is now married ann working aa an Instruc­tor in the Toledo State Hospital School of Nursing. -We've met all the MALONES—JOHN and JIM and their cousin. BUD—and FRANK MILLER, whose cookies used to feed us back in the dormitory," reports J^m. 
1946 and later 
JOHN STEWART, foreign service staff offi­cer assigned to the American Embassy In Paris, reports that since graduation from Notre Dame in February, 194C. he has "drifted and wan­dered all over Lafn America, the Caribbean Islands. North Africa and Europe, including Russia." When lie wrote, on Feb. 28, he was leaving for a two-week vacation at Capri. 
* 

JOHN AGNONE, wh) finished up In Febru­ary, 19!7, has slg: ed on as assistant to HUGH­IE DEVOUK. he-.d f-o ball coach at St. Bona­venture College. OK an, N. Y. 
CHARLIE McFARLANE is in Denver, work­ing for the U. S. Bureiu of Reclamation. JIM MCCARTHY is a reporter for the dally "Butler Eagle," Butler, pa., nerr Pittsburgh. 
TOM SEEDORFF, Sh. rt Hills, N. J., writes that, although he couldn't get tickets for the N.D.-N.Y.U. basketb'ill game, he and 11 others had very comfortab'e seats in the study of Monsignor Duanhauer. vicar general of the Pat­erson diocese, and saw the whole game by tele­vision. 
FRANK RUGGER:0, a new father as of Jan, 30, is athletic director of St. Mary's High Sch-ol, Rutherford, N. J. 
JOHN PO^\\ER, practicing law in Chicago, writes as follows; 
"The younger set of N.D. lawyer alumni any week-day at noontime can be round at lunch In a little place called Sully's on Monroe St- The group is usually composed of one or more of the following: 
"FRANK PAULSON. '46. recently admitted to the bar. associated with Pope and Ballard, and recently married to a young lady who Is also a member of the bar and with the same firm; JOHN RINELLA, also a new-born law, yer. associated with his cousin, Sam Rinella, :s still single. 
"Then there is BILL O'CONNELL, who is with Walker Butter, a member of the Illinois legislature. JIM KLVNE, '44. SAM ALONZI. 45. JOHN WARD, 41, and TOM McCAUGHEY. '45, who is with a law firm wh-le attending DePaul Law at night. HARRY MURRAY. '43, Is around and about, and JOE BRADY, '46, Is the logical candidate for mayor of JoUet within the next few years. Tlie newcomer to the fold is BILL MARTIN, a Janurry graduate, who Is now with a local insurance.company. The majority of us were at the annual alumni banquet a few weeks back. 
"We were all quite happy and quite relieved that we could make tlie trip to Springfield to be sworn in. . . . The group Included JOHN RINELLA, FRANK PAULSON. DRUIB CAV­ENDAR, »4G, BOB SINON. '47. FRANK POW­ERS. '39. who took his law at Georgetown, and myself." 
ALUMNI CLUBS : 
(Continned from Page 26) 

Wesfvra WasMagfOS 
The clab held a business meeting^ at Knights off Columbus Hall, Feb. 27. President CHARLIE OSBORN led the way in starting preparations for the expected visit of FATHiSK ROBERT H. SWEENEY. aS.C.. who was ex­pected in Seattle late In March. 
The well-attended meetici- offered, a Uveir picture as plans for the future were argued pro and con. Besides social activities connected with Father Sweeney's visit, the matter of dues, retreats, and football tickets were under consideration. .-­
PHIL HOSTERMAN 

WUk99-Barn 
Wllkes-Barre's newly formed Notre Dame club and -the Club of Scranton will jointly ob­serve Universal Notre Dame Night on April 14. it was decided at a meeting at the Wilkes-Barre group on Feb. 17. ~ 
Three guests from the active Scranton Club. THOMAS LEAHY, president. MICHAEL COM­ERFORD. vice-president, and LOUIS FINSKE. attended the Feb. 17 meeting and offered sug­gestions on perfecting operations of the local club. 
TOM BKOCK, coach of King's College, has been appointed temporary chalrmrn of the Wilkcs-Barre club. Permanent officers will be elected at the next meeting. 
ANTHONY O'BOYIiE, Forty Fort. Pa., Is chairman of a contact committee named to contact local graduates and former students as prospective members of the local organi­zation. 
IToungsfowii 
At the recent elections of the Chesterton Club, JOHN MORAN was named secretary, while CHARLIE CUSUWA and GEORGE KBLT.EY. were elected tmstecs. 
Congratulations are in order to Mr. and Mis. BUD BERNARD. Thersecond daughter recent­ly arrived. DICK MIULER recently passed the Oh'o State Bar examination. Our bowlins team deserves a pat on the hack. At the end of the season they were found high in the standings of the local Catholic Bowling league. 
TOM KERRIGAN 


SURVIVAL IN A MODERN WORLD 
(Continned from page 12) must be prepared to undertake the necies­sary sacrifices to insore peaceful living in a community of nations. 
World government is dictated by the moral law and by the brotherhood iof man. It is a sad commentary on hunian nature that we begin to feel the value of peace, not because of any spiritual necessity but because of the terror which surely awaits us unless we learn to live together in peace—quickly. We have only a littie time! 
We have already entered the portals of the Atomic Age. At the gate is a cross-roads. One road is the old easy one, the old cynical path of world an­archy, which leads us inevitably to chaos and the wild hell of an atomic and bio­logical doom. The other road, untried and hard, leads eventually to the possi­bilities of enjoyment of the fruits at our technological skilL 
Which path shall we take? Are we prepared for the effort of the good way? 
A NOTRE DAME CONTRIBUTION TO AMERICAN CULTURE 
April 
Contributors: 
STEFAN T. POSSONY of Georgetown University is an autliority on Military' Historj'. 
ELMER PLISCHKE 
served with Ambassador 
Murphy in Berlin. 
MAURICE DE GANDIL­LAC of tlic Sorbonnc is on the editorial staff of 
Dieu Vivant. 
FRANK O'MALLEY of 
tlie Notre Dame English 
Department is at his best 
in the essay on Blake. 
WALDEMAR GURIAN of Notre Dame, the Editor, writes brilliantly from deep researches on the famous tragic figure. 
OTTO KARRER has 
\\Tittcn many volumes of 
religious histor)'. 
The reviews are by 
Messrs. Abell, Downey, 
Hermens, Simon and Father McAvoy, all of the 
Notre Dame facultv. 
The Review of Politics is a fine gift for a friend of Notre Dame. 
FOR ONE YEAR $3.00 ONE ISSUE $1.00 
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTION $3.40 
THE 

REVIEW OF POLITICS 
Vol.9 APRIL, 1947 No. 2 
Stefan T. Possony:  The Lessons of the First  
Atomic Year  
Elmer Plischke:  Denazifying the Reich  

Maurice de Gandillac: France Faces Germany Frank O'Malley: The Wasteland of William Blake 
Waldemar Gurian: Lamennais 
Otto Karrer: Newman and the Spiritual Crisis of the Occident 
SUBSCRIPTION BLANK 
The Editors of the Review of Politics Notre Dame, Indiana 
Please enter my subscription to the Revieiv of Politics for. year(s), at $3.00 per year. 
Name Street... 

•
 Check enclosed City 

•
 Please send bill State.— 






