The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

COMMENT 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JA.-WES E . ARJISTRONG, '25, Editor 
Special 

The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni 
Details on football ticket sale, in­

Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price Is $2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The, 
cluding season tickets, are held up 

annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALU3INUS. pending action of Congress on the Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923. at the post office at Notre Dome. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. All correspondence shotild question of taxation. be addressed to The Notre Dame Altmmus. Box 81, Notre Dame. Indiana. 
Alumni preference will be in effect ME:MBER OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL IVIEMBEB OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUJINI FEDERATION 
again, meaning that those alumni whose dues are paid by August 1 and who fulfill all the other require­

THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
ments of the Athletic Association, 
of the 
will be given a preference in the sale 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTEE DAME 
of tickets for all games. Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., 
This preference varies with the fa­

Notre Dame, Indiana cilities Notre Dame is given, in JAMES E . ARJISTKONG, General Secretary games away from home, but at Notre 
Dame it means that the alumni pre­ALUMNI BOARD ferred section will begin at the 50-REV. JOHN A. MACNAJIARA, '97 Honorary President yard line on the East side of the Sta­FRANCIS H . HAYES, '14 President dium, extending North. And always CLARENCE MANION, '22 -- Vice-President 
WALTER DUNCAN, '12 --­
- Treasurer paid will receive preference over gen­it means that alumni whose dues are 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 -Secretary 
M. HARRY MILLER, '10 -Director 
eral applications and alumni whose 

T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 -- Director 
dues are not paid. 

JOHN F . O'CONNELL, '13 Director 
And again, alumni preference does ROBERT E . LYNCH, '03 -- Director FRANK E . HERING, '98 -(ex officio) Director 
not extend to season tickets, which is 
a form of preference in itself. 

Aiding the University 
Probably when the Living Endow­ment appeals are issued, there will be a substantial number of alumni who will be unable to participate, regard­less of their desire. 
For those who wish to aid, the ALUJINUS takes the liberty of sug­gesting these rather obvious but ef­fective substitutes. 
Notre Dame has always derived a large part of its support from the "hotel features." Therefore a full enrollment substitutes for some lack of permanent endowment. 
Athletics have aided the Univer­sity in very recent years by repaying expenditures of long years "in the red." Therefore if athletics continue to return a profit, Notre Dame will find welcome aid. You can attend Notre Dame games, all of them many of you, and you can interest numbers of friends and clients who. in this particular sports era, frequently have 
a. wide choice of attractions. 

I'car 
Before ISSO 
18S0-S5 1886 1887 1888 1889 1890-03 
1894 1895 1896 1897 1808 1809 IDOO 1901 1902 1003 1004 1906 1906 1007 1908 1909 1910 1011 1912 1913 1914 1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924 1025 1026 1927 1928 1029 1030 1931 
LIST OF CLASS SECRETARIES 
Nayiic Address 
To be selected Prof. Robert M. Anderson Michael 0. Bums Hon. Warren A. Cartier John L. Heineman To be selected 
Louis P. Chute HuBh A. O'Donnell Eustace Cullinan. Sr.. William P. Bums Rev. John MacNamara 
F. Henry Wurzer Dr. Joseph F. Buanc John W. EcRcman Joseph J. Sullivan To be selected Francis P. Burke Robert Proctor Daniel J. O'Connor Thomas A. Lally 
T. Paul McGannon Frank X. Cull 
E. P. Clean-Rev. M. L. Moriarty Fred L. Steers Benjamin J. Kaiser James R. Devitt Frank H. Hayes James £. Sanford Timothy P. Galvm John U. Riley John A. Lemmer Clarence Bader Leo B. Ward Alden J. Cusick Gerald Ashe Paul Castner James F. Hayes John W. Scallan 
Dr. Gerald W. Hayes Edmund DeCIercq Louis Buckley Joseph McNamara Bernard W. Conroy 
John E. Boland Circleville, Ohio 338 S. Second St.. Hnmtlton, Ohio 
Ludington. Michigan 
Connersville. Indiana 

7 University Ave.. Minneapolis, Minnesota The Now York Times, New York City 860 Phelan Bldg., San Francisco, Calif. 327 Willard Ave.. Michigan. City, Indiana St. Joseph's Sanitarium. Mt, Clemens. Mich: (temporary) Buhl Bldg.. Detroit. Michigan 
•118 Jefferson Bldg.. Peoria. Illinois 1201 First National Bank Bldg., Fort Waj'ne, Ind. 1300, 139 N. Clark St, Chicago. Illinois 
901 Trust Company Bldg.. Milwaukee. "Wisconsin Monger Bldg., Elkhart, Indiana 10 S. LaSaiJe St.. Chicago, Illinois 811-13 Paulsen Bldg., Spokane. Washington Bar Bldg.. 36 W. 44th St.. New York City Buckley Bldg.. Cleveland, Ohio 
P. O. Box 356. Momence. Illinois 527 Beall Ave.. Wooster. Ohio 1635 First National Bank Bldg.. Chicago. Illinois 324 Fourth St.. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 921 Engineers Bldg.. Cleveland. Ohio 1055 Granville Ave.. Chicago. Illinois 8212 Kenwood Ave., Chicago, Illinois 70S First Trust Bldg., Hammond, Indiana 244 Washington St., Boston. Massachusetts 1110-8th Ave.. S.. ^canaba, Michigan 650 Pierce St.. Gary. Indiana 1012 Black Bldg.. Los Angeles, California 1 Park Ave., New York City 1024 Monroe Ave.. Rochester. New York 2702 Miami St.. South Bend. Indiana Fifth Avenue Ass'n. Empire State Bldg.. N. Y. City Pullman Co.. 79 E. Adams St.. Chicago, 111. 38 N. 12th St.. Newark, New Jersey 8126 Drcxel Blvd.. Chicago, Illinois 718 E. Corby St.. South Bend. Indiana 231 Wisconsin St.. Indianapolis. Indiana 1055 Park Ave.. New York City 3624 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 

3 

To Dedicate John F. Cashing, C.E. '06, Hall of Engineering, June 4th 
The Auditorium of the Hall 
Memorial Hall 
The N.eiv Machine Shop 





TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. X. APEm-MAY, 1932 Nos. 7-8 
Owen D. Young to Address Graduates June 5 
Eminent American Scholar and Industrialist to Give Commencement Address; His Character and the Era Make Choice Most Fortunate. 
T
HOS E attending the 1932 Commencement of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame will listen to the eighty-eighth address to the graduating class. Each year great men have said gi-eat things. The eighty-eighth speaker steps to a platform whose history demands the best. Each year that demand has been satisfied. With Owen D. Young filling the role this year, 1932 promises to be exceptional only on the credit side. 
Mr. Young, chairman of the Board of the General Electric Company, • author of the famous Young Plan of German repara­tions, holder of honorary degrees from some fifteen of the leading universities of America, would in all probability be equally fitted for this address shorn of all these recog­nitions. 
He is an American as we like to think of Americans, an occupant of the national hall of- fame to whom we like to refer our small sons. 
Born in the country, attending a small college on money secured by a mortgage, marrying his college sweetheart, starting law at that dis­mal bottom rung of the proverbial legal ladder, achieving success through unquenchable effort, enthu­siasm and merit, he is what we would all like to be. That he is prominently mentioned as a presidential possibil­ity is a tribute to the nation's stead­
, fastness, in some part at least, to its older ideals. 
Mr. Young's early experiences with poverty, with small schools and ^vith the law make him unusually sympa­thetic toward those problems that the young graduate of today will face. His tremendous g^rasp of modem con­ditions through his great company, through his international relations, and through his unsought political aflBliations place him in a position peculiarly adapted to the concrete expression of this sympathy in a way that should be of inestimable value to members of the Class of 1932. 
Mr. Young is noted for his candor. This is equalled by his manifest sin­cerity. With conditions as they are, affecting the colleges of America as they do, it is no gift of prophecy that promises a remarkable address 
THE GYJIN.\SIUJI—Site of Commencement 
to those attending the 1932 Com­
mencement. 
Mr. Young is described as actually a rather shy man, uneasy in confer­ences, taking refuge in smoking a pipe, but one who never hesitates to answer a question with a frank state­ment of honest opinion. His pro-' nouncements on current issues have qualified, it is true, but friends on both sides have been free to admit that they are not political evasions but the expression of Mr. Young's I'eal thought. For instance, on the ever-present prohibition issue, he has stated, "As a liberal, I resent the whole theory of the (Eighteenth) constitutional amendment, and the fanaticism and unreasonableness of 
. the Volstead law; but on the other hand, I, for one, do not propose to take any chances on liquor again obtaining the upper hand in this coun­try. I wish a sane law, wisely ad­ministered and capable of being honestly enforced." 
He has also suggested that he rather favors public ownership of the radio. This is significant coming from him inasmuch as he practically created the present radio patent pool and is in a large measure responsible for the growth of the Radio Corpora­tion of America. In fact, he recently 
suggested the formation of a public corporation including all the com­munication services of the country,— radio, telegraph, telephone and cables. Van Homesville, New York, Mr. 
Young's home town, considers "Owen" one of its nicest boys. He still retains a residence there, his vot­ing residence in fact, with an oflSce in th'e bam behind a big clapboard house. He has done little for the town in an ostenta­tious way, but has seen to it that the several hundred inhabitants and surrounding farmers have an opportunity to buy and sell to advantage, an d recently w a s the "rocking chair consultant" in the erection of a much needed school. 
The fact that Mrs. Young has been a lifelong Bepublican while her hus­band has been a leader in the Demo­cratic councils, indicates that the Commencement orator has been on his mettle both at home and abroad for most of the crowded fifty-six years of his life. 
Notre Dame feels particularly gratified that Mr. Young, at this critical period of an already full life, has consented to bestow upon the Class of 1932 a cross-section of time, experience and ability that should be a crowning asset for them to carry with them from Notre Dame. An honorary degree, Doctor of Laws, from Notre Dame will join the for­midable list he already possesses, as only partial recognition of Notre Dame's appreciation of his address here. Mr. Young is a Protestant, a Universalist, and the ALUMNUS feels that the award of an LL.D. from Notre Dame is, like his men­tioned candidacy for the presidency, rather a tribute to the high type of Americanism he represents, and a comment on the persistence, again in part, of those fundamentals upon which the American government was founded. 
THE NOTREDAME ALUMNUS April-May, 1932 

THE 1932-33 BALLOT 
(Following are the tickets for officers for the Alumni Association for the coming year as they appear on Ballots which will be mailed the first week in May. The voting for District Governors and Lieutenant Governors' according to the new Constitution is additional. The alumnus is to vote for one man for each office IN HIS DISTRICT ONLY, Ballots are to be returned as promptly as possible.) 
Honorary President First Vice-President 
( ) Eev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, 'SO ( ) Timothy P. Galvin, '16 ' ( ) Very Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C, '07 ( ) David V. Hayes, '21 
President Second Vice-President 
( ) Clarence Manion, '22 ( ) Chester D. Freeze, '10 ( ) JL Harry Bliller, '10 ( ) James E. Sanford, '15 
Director for Four-Year Term 

( ) Hugh A, O'Donnell, '94 ( ) Bernard J. Voll, '17 
NOjnNATIONS FOR GOVERNOR .A.ND LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR 
DISTRICT I—Northern Indiana and Southwestern Michigan DISTRICT XII—Kentucky, Southern Indiana and Tennessee ) James E. Deery. *10. Indianapolis. Ind. Governor ( William N. Rosier, '04, Louisville, Ky. ) Frank E. Hering, '98. South Bend, Ind. ( Charles M. Bryan, *97, Memphis, Tenn. 
Lieutenant-Governor ) Clarence Bader. *19, Gary. Ind. Frank Bloemer, '22. Louisville, Ky. 
Lieutenant-Governor () John W. Ecgcman, '00, Fort Wayne, Ind. Galvin Hudson. '15, Memphis, Tenn. 
(

DISTRICT n—Chicago area DISTRICT Xni—^Louisiana. Mississippi and Arkansas Governor ) -Arthur J. Hughes, '11. Governor ( P. E. Burke. 'SS. New Orleans, La. ) John W. Costello, '12. ( Tworaey Clifford, '14. Camden, Ark. Lieutenant-Governor Arthur Carmody, '15, Shreveport. La. 
) John C. Tully, '11. 

Lieutenant-Governor ( ) Daniel Hilgartner, Jr., '17. 
Lawrence Hcnncssy, '27, Vicksburg, Miss. 
(

DISTRICT Ilr—Ohio, t'estem Pennsylvania and "West Virginia DISTRICT XIV—Te.xas 
Governor ) John P. Murphy, '12. Cleveland, Ohio. Clyde Broussard, '13, Beaumont, Tex. 
Governor (

) Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '20, Pittsburgh, Pa. Arthur T. Simpson. '97. Dallas. Tex. 
(

Lieutenant-Governor ) Hon. Arthur P. Hudson, '95, Charleston, 'W. Va. Georsc W. Burkitt. '02. Houston. Tex. ) E. C. McHugh, '13, Cincinnati, Ohio. Joseph A. Mcnger, *25. San Antonio. Tex. 
Lieutenant-Governor { DISTRICT IV--Minnesota, Wisconsin and Northern Michigan ( Missouri. Oklahoma and So. Illinois Govcmor ) John A. Lcmmcr, '18, Escanaba, Mich. DISTRICT XV—Kansas, John L. Corley, *02, St. Louis, Sic. ) William J. Redden, '14, Milwaukee, "Wis. Governor ( Pat Malloy, '07. Tulsa, Okla. Lieutenant-Governor ) Louis P. Chute, '90, Minneapolis, Minn. { Dr. D. M. Nicro. '14. Kansas City. Mo. ) John V. Dicncr, '09, Green Bay, Wis. Lieutenant-Governor ( Norbert Skelly, '25. Salina, Kansas. DISTRICT 'V—Michigan (except Northern and Southwestern) DISTRICT XVI—Northern Illinois, Iowa and Nebraska (except Chicaso) 
( 

Governor ) W^arren A. Cartier. '87, Ludinston. Governor ( Walter Duncan. '12. La Salle. 111. ) Don P. O'Kcefe, '03, Detroit ( Eufrenc Mdady. '89. Omaha, Nebr. Lieutenant-Governor ) Raymond J. Kelly, '15, Detroit. Carlton Beh. '17, Dcs Moines, Iowa. 
Lieutenant-Governor ( ) George E. Ludwig, '25, Grand Rapids, 
Richard B. Swift, '20. Davenport, Iowa. 
(

DISTRICT VI—New ersey. Eastern Pa., Delaware and the Dist. Col. DISTRICT XVII—Montana. North and South Dakota Governor ) Joseph Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, N. J. Governor ( Hon. Albert J. Galen, '96, Helena. Mont. ) John H. Necson, '03, Philadelphia, Pa. ( Albert F. Gushurst. '09. Lead, So. Dak. Lieutenant-Governor ) Thomas Farrell, '26, East Orange, N. J. Henry Brosnahan, '17, Minot, North Dakota. 
Lieutenant-Governor ( ) Dr. J. A. Flynn, El. '12, Washington, D. C. ( 
Dr. R. C. Monahan. '90. Butte. Mont, and Colorado 
DISTRICT Vn—Greater New York City DISTRICT XVni—Utah 
Governor Raymond J. Brady. '24, Salt Lake City. Utah. 
) W-illiam E. Cotter, '13. Governor ( Raymond M. Humphreys, *16, Denver. Colo. 
) Angus D. McDonald, '00. 
(

Lieutenant-Governor Robert Fox, '01. Denver. Colo. 
) John T. Balfe, '20. 

Lieutenant-Governor ( Rev. Patrick Maeuirc, *20, Murray, Utah, ) Ambrose O'Connell, '07. 
DISTRICT Vm—New ( omia, Arizona, New Mexico and El Paso area York State (except New York City) 
DISTRICT XDC—So. Cali Terence B. Cossrovc, '06, Los Angeles. Calif. ) Gerald A. Ashe, '22, Rochester. Governor ( Anton Hebenstreit, *11. Albuquerque. N. 3Iex. 
Lieutenant-Governor ) Jacob E. Eckel, '16. Syracuse. ( James D. Barry, '97, Tucson. Ariz. ) Dr. Robert Bums, '17, Buffalo. Lieutenant-Governor ( Leo B. Ward, '20. Los Angeles, Calif. ) Thomas V. Dollard, '21, Albany. ( California and Nevada 
Eustace Cullirian. Sr., *95. San Francisco. 
Governor 

DISTRICT K—New England DISTRICT XX—Northern ) Hon. Wm. J. Gianficld, '15, Springfield, JIass. Governor ( 
Gove 

Dr. J. M. Toner, '00. San Francisco 
) John U. Riley, '17, Boston, Mass. ( E. P. Carville, '09, Elko, Nevada. ) James A. Curry, *14, Hartford, Ck>nn. Lieutenant-Governor ( Howard Parker, '17, Sacramento ) Joseph P. Gartland, '27, Boston, Mass. igton, Oregon and Idaho Lieutenant-Governor 
DISTRICT X—Virginia, (
North and South Carolinas Walter Daly, '04, Portland, Ore. 
Governor DISTRICT XXI—Washini 
) Charles C. Collins, '25, Chapel Hill, N. C. Emmett Lcnihan. '15, Seattle, Wash. 
Governor (

) Hilton Goodw-yn, '15, Richmond, Va. Frank Hagenharth. Sr.. '85, Spencer, Idaho. 
Ijeutenant-Govemor (
) Anselm D. Miller, '25, Roanoke. Va. 
B. Morris Starrett, '21, Port Townsend, Wash. 
Lieutenant-Governor () John P. Smith, '29, Raleigh, N. C. 

(

DISTRICTT XI—Alabama, Georgia and Florida 
Governor C. C. Fitzgerald. '94. Havana. Cuba. 
DISTRICT XXII—Foreien ) Vincent Giblin, 'IS, Miami. Fla. 
Louis P. Harl. '16. Paris, France. 
Governor (Lieutenant-Governor Conrad Ochoa, '28, Mexico City, Mexico. 
) Harry Mehre, '22, Athens, Ga. 
) Harold Foley, '21, Foley, Fla. ( Alfonso Zobel. *24. Manila, P. I. 
) Frank W. Thomas, '23, Tuscaloosa, Ala. Lieutenant-Governor ( 
(

THE 1932-33 LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR WILL BE THE 1933-34 GOVERNOR! 
April-May, 19S2 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 

Election of Governors Features 1932 Balloting 
Caliber of Candidates Guarantees Results; Heavy Balloting Urged as Needed Vote of Confidence to Elected Officers for Coming Crucial Administration. 
The Ballot for 1932, appearing on the opposite page, indicates the ex­tent of the departure in the 1932 elections from the old Constitution. The difference is not as great as seems evident, however, in that voters check on the Governor and Lieutenant Governor for the District in which they live and no other. 
The national slate presents a choice 

which may puzzle the voter, but 
which cannot disappoint him in the • outcome. 
Both committees chose to nominate an Honorary President this year. And while neither Father Cavanaugh nor Father Donahue would consider com­peting for an office of this nature, such is election to an office in the Association that the element of com­petition is completely removed. The successful candidate is merely recog­nized by a larger number of friends in the balloting. Nomination itself is the major recognition. 
That is why, also, the Alumni Board declined to accept the friendly and generous withdrawals in favor of the other of both nominees for the presidency, Mr. Manion and Mr. Miller. 
The vote is a gesture of friendship for all concerned. It might be said with some truth that the fortunate candidate is the loser.. However, vot­ing is essential, and a tested machine of selection which present circum­stances acnnot improve upon. The Alumni Office hopes that there will be a heavy vote. It is discouraging to a candidate to be voted into office by an obvious minority of the mem­bership. 
Regarding the new Governorships and Lieutenant Governorships, per­haps 'a word of explanation would help. 
The present Alumni Board is com­paratively small, picked with no re­gard to geographical distribution, and charged with the executive work of the Association. They are taxed in time and expense for participation in this work. It is obviously unfair, therefore, to expect them to assume the much heavier duties of contact­ing the scattered alumni. 
This situation, however, left the 

BULLETIN! 

The Alumni Office is faced with the necessity for suspending to some de­gree its work through lack of. fi­nances. 
A deficit this year is facing the prospect of merely growing as ' we enter the new fiscal year, June 1. 
The University itself is so sorely pressed financially that it can scarce­ly be ?. source of aid at this time. 
The bills for dues for the coming year are being sent out with the 1932 Ballots. 
Members will confer a great favor on the Association by returning dues for 1932-33 promptly. 
The extent of the return of these dues will guide the Alumni Office in the degree of curtailment for the next year. 
Unfortunate as any suspension of the already meager activities of the Office is they cannot be pursued without financial support. 
Conditions elsewhere are recog­nized, in all their significance. They arc deplorable. But burning the wid­ow on the pyre does not restore the husband. 
The Alumni Office cannot but re­emphasize here that if only 40% of our alumni, some 2,000, would pay only the S5 dues, most of the prob­lems would be solved for the main­tenance of the Association as it now is. That allows 60% discount for the depression, which, on the average, and in view of the amount asked, ought not to be underestimated. 
Alumni evidently do not realize the seriousness of the situation regard­ing the continuation of the Alumni records and the magazine. 
It has become "To be or not to be.'" 

Prompt remittance of the 1932-33 dues will aid greatly. 
Local Alumni Clubs in direct contact only with the Alumni Office itself. The Council of Local Alumni Clubs aided somewhat in Club problems, but participation was not general enough and action was almost necessarily ad­visory. It therefore became the de­sire of the national officers to set up an intermediate group of contact men who would be national officers in effect on the one hand, and who would be in a position on the other hand to represent all the Clubs in a given area to advantage. Thus the new Constitutional Committee was asked to devise a set-up to take care of this need if possible. 
The result is the division of the United States into twenty-one dis­tricts, with foreign alumni compris­ing a twenty-second. A Governor and • Lieutenant Governor will be chosen for each of these Districts. This year, the vote is for both. Under the Constitution the Lieutenant- Gov­ernor will become the Governor next year and the vote in 1933 and thence­forward will be for the Lieutenant-Governor only. 
The Districts have been chosen tentatively with various factors in mind, such as the geographical facili­ty for the Governor, the linking of Clubs so as to provide strength in each District, the recognition of fun­damental differences in problems, etc. 
It is assumed by the Alumni Board that this arrangement will not be permanent or perfect, but the Consti­tution provides for re-Districting as necessity arises, and a point of start­ing had to be arrived at. It is the earnest hope of the officers that the new Governors will co-operate with the Clubs in this first year under this arrangement to iron out any inequal­ities or inefficiencies in distribution. 
The creation of the Governorships ought to result in closer contact with those large numbers of Notre Dame men who live in areas outside the actual Club spheres. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS April-May, 1932 
REV. RAYMOND MURCH, C.S.C , '23 
In charge of Alumni Golf and 

PRESIDE^,•T O'DOXXELL 
general arrangements

Receives the Senior Flag from President Connolly, '32 To be raised June 5 
RE\'. J. L. CARRICO, C.S.C, '03 
0. K.'s Seniors' Dij)lomas 

FRANCIS O'MALLEY ROBERT RIORDAN, '24 
Valedictorian In charge of registration of Alumni 
April-May, 19S2 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
COMMENCEMENT OF  1931  
ORATOR AVILLIAJI KiRBY The Class Day Address  if «  

REV. THoaiAS STEINER, C.S.C, '99 
JOHN F . CUSHING, C.E,, '06 
Dedicates his building and 

Whose Engineering Hall will be. dedicated 
receives Alumni « 

168 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS Ami-May, 1932 
|a]iiiiitMtii)iiiiiii)ti iiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiaiiiKiiiiiiiMiiaiixiiDiitii iiiiiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii «iimiiMtiiiimMiiw»inMmiimiiiiiimiimiiitiiiiiiiiniiiiiminiiiininiiniip1 

I AN OPEN LETTER TO THE EDITOR OF THE | I SATURDAY REVIEW, LONDON | 
I April 2, 1932 I 
I Dear Sir: | 
I My attention has heen drawn to an article entitled "A Briton looks at Ameri-| I can Education" hy Mr. John Boyd-Carpenter v/hich appeared recently in the Saturday | I Review. The article as a whole, in its contrasting of British and American ideals i I and methods in education, is renjarkahle, it seems to me, only as representing a, I I recrudescence of a form of British chauvinism which, for some years, has happily I I been missing from the British press. I douht very much if Mr. Boyd-Carpenter | I represents the best-informed English opinion on the subject of American education. | I I prefer to think his sneering attitude is rather exclusively his own. For that I I reason I am not much concerned to offer comment on his observations in general. • | I Inasmuch, however, as he singles out my University for a particular sneer, I must i I protest against this special exhibition of unfairness and injustice. I 
I As illustrating what he calls "the incomprehensible worship of a game they I 
j. call football," Mr. Boyd-Carpenter writes: "Eor instance, the University of Uotre f I Dame, a place of no particular intellectual pretensions, has enjoyed recently a | I great reputation simply because its football team was not, for a long time, | I defeated by any of the teams it chose to meet." I do not know what Mr. Boyd-i I Carpenter regards as "a great reputation." It is true enough that the varsity I I football team of the University of Notre Dame has attracted considerable atten-i I tion because it has been a rearkably good football team. The mistake which Mr. | I Boyd-Carpenter makes, and he is not alone in this error, is in considering that I I the nev.'s-value of intercollegiate athletics, as estimated by the sports' editors, | I represents either the university estimate of their value or the estimate placed | I upon them by thinking men in general. I 
I I am concerned less, however, with this misconception than with Mr. Boyd-I I Carpenter's insouciant parenthetic observation that the University of Notre Dame I I is "a place of no particular intellectual pretensions." I should hope that remark I I were true as written, for "pretensions" of any sort are'hardly to be entertained.' I I It is obvious from the context, however, Mr. Boyd-Carpenter means that the Uni-| I versity of Notre Dame has no particular claim to intellectual distinction or, in I I other words, has a low academic rating. The viciousness of this remark resides in | I the confidence with which it is made. Mr. Boyd-Carpenter is a paid workman, I | I assume. He should know his trade. Since his trade is journalism, he should know I f what he is writing about. A.pparently, it has never occurred to him that he should | I inform himself as to the academic reputation.of the University of Notre Dame. I 
I A slur upon the intellectual achievements of Notre Dame is particularly | I untimely just now when the attention of the scientific and industrial world is I I focused upon a highly important discovery in the field of research made by one of | 
QlHIIIfllllUlllln llllllllllll)lllltl>tllllllllll)IIIIIIIII|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIll)llllllllltllllllllllllllltlllllllllltlltlllllllMIIllllllll(IH*nilllHllllllMIMllMIIMIItllllHltlllllMtlltllllllllll)tllttlllU lllllllQ 
April-Ma!/, 19S2 THE NOTRE DAM E ALUMNUS 169 
k 
F]»i tiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiiDti iitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiKtiiiiiiiiiiiiit iiiiitiiimiiHimiiiiUMiiMnimttiiiiii It wiitiMwtwimmtwMii iiimiim 13 
I the professors of the University of Ifotre Dame. Hov/does Mr. Boyd-Carpenter, i I writing as an authority on American education, come to be unaware of this discov-| I ery? I can understand that this critic might be unfamiliar with these facts: | I' that some of the earliest successful research work in aviation and wireless I I telegraphy was done at Notre Dame; that fifty years ago, one of the greatest i , I living Italian artists was brought to Notre Dame to decorate the college church | i and other buildings v/ith mural paintings that are among the glories of the school i I to this day; that the literary'traditions of Notre Dame are directly derived from | I the New England group of Longfellow and Lowell and Charles Dana in this coimtry, I I and in England from Robert Louis Stevenson through his friend Charles Warren | I Stoddard, for many years a professor at Notre Dame; that the University of Notre | I Dame was a pioneer in establishing an award for distinguished service in all • | I lines of human endeavor, and that for forty-nine years, the Laetare Medal has been I I the most prized distinction v/hieh an American lay Catholic could receive; that I I the University of Notre Dame possesses one of the best Dante libraries in the | I world and one of the finest art collections of early Italian masters; that the | I archives and incunabula of the University attract research v/orkers from all over f I the United States; that the engagement last year of G. K. Chesterton for a. lecture | I series over a period of six weeks, of Doctor Gilson, of the Sorbonne, of Doctor | i Franco Bruno Averardi, of the University of Florence, and of Hilaire Belloc for | I the coming year, represents a policy which the University has followed for half a | I century; that the faculty of the University is composed of scholars, many of whom f I have been educated in the universities of England and the Continent, as well as in | I those American universities which Mr. Boyd-Carpenter refers to, somewhat snob-| I bishly, as the "prestige" universities. Something of all this Mr. Boyd-Carpenter | I might have learned from a series of articles contributed to the Dublin Review by I I Mr. Wilfred Ward, its editor, on his return to England after an extended lecture | I engagement at the University of Notre Dame. | 
i Is it altogether unreasonable to expect men like Mr. John Boyd-Carpenter to f I know what they are talking about? Is it asking too much that they inform them-| i selves before setting out to inform the public? I don't think so. At any rate,' | I a greater Englishman than Mr. Boyd-Carpenter, and one whose authority in education I i is certainly not less. Cardinal Nevman, would recognize, I think, in the educa-| I tional standards and methods of the University of Notre Dame a rather succcessful | I approach to that educational ideal which perhaps better than anyone else Cardinal | I Newman has summarized as "The instinctive just estimate of things as they pass be-| I fore us." With that in mind, Mr. Boyd-Carpenter's article, "A Briton Looks at ' | |- American Education" would fare badly, I believe, at the hands of our freshmen • | I class in journalism. | 

I I leave it to the authorities of "Harvard, Yale, Princeton, and perhaps | I Cornell" to answer the slur that these universities are not "essentially American." | > 
I I am, . I 
I Sincerely yours,• I 
I CHARLES L. O'DOHNELL, C. S. C , f 
i President. I 
•Illllllllllllllllllllll 

Q , lilllllltlllUIIU IMItllH Illlllllllltllllillllilllil i tl"* < 

» By FRED I. KENT 
GOLD 
Into'iuitional authority on banking and economics 
(EDITOR'S NOTE—Mr. Kent is widely known in the bankinp: field. He was vice-president of the Bankers* Trust Company. New York. 1909­28, was one of the founders of the American Institute of Bankinp. and has always been keenlj' interested in its pro;rress. Durinc the war he was director of the division of foreisn exchange of the Federal Rc5er\'o Board, In 1930 he Ijecame president of the Gouneil of New York University.) 
The universal desire of Mankind to provide alibis for their every mistake at times develops complicated but more or less futile discussions upon serious subjects. Tlie depression has brought forward one phase of such a situation in the discussions which have developed about gold. 
One would almost conceive the idea that a bar of gold contained a motor, a self-starter, and a mechanical brain, and that it had galloped around at will at the expense of poor human beings until its actions had forced a depression upon the world, developed mental unrest and created unfortun­ate psychological reactions. 
The same thought is carried into what is possibly a more unfortunate development in every man blaming the depression upon some other per­son or group of persons because now that hindsight can be actively em­ployed in weighing certain conditions that, existed in recent years up to the time of the depression he thinks that he can see where other individu­als used impossible judgment, even though he cannot mentally restore all of the elements which were in ex­istence at the time such judgments were rendered. However, we are not concerned at the moment with this phase of the situation, important though it may be, but must confine our attention to the gold alibi. 
Gold is a substance that has always been attractive to mankind. It is something that he has always been willing to accept in exchange for al­most anything he might possess. Be­cause of this attitude of man toward gold it was quite natural that it should be selected as the promise to pay in currency tokens. It is the only substance that has continued to be effective for this purpose and that has never failed mankind. Currencies backed by gold while such backing continued have stood up when curren­cies backed by other commodities, by government bonds, by legislative acts declaring them legal tender or by promises of groups of individuals from corporations to governments 
have been inadequate except now and again temporarily. We are hearing today about how 
gold can be effectively supplanted by managed currencies, the thought back of the idea being that the currencies will carry into them the integrity of governments as their backing and that currency issues will be increased and decreased by men in such man­ner as to force other men to do things against their will, and taking it for granted that those who may do the forcing will be more intelligent and more alive to developing conditions than those who are to be forced. 
How are men going to be any more successful in managing a currency that would have governments back of it which fluctuate from election to elec­tion in power, intelligence, • and de­gree of good intent, than they are in the case of currencies backed by gold which is always itself regard­less of the acts of man, even though its value as measured in the things which men produce may fluctuate be­cause of the acts of men in connec­tion with such production? 
When men have the intelligence to successfully manage a currency that can be backed by government fiat they will have the intelligence to manage currencies backed by gold. Again the opportunities of men to carry on unwisely, under so-called managed currencies, is almost unlim­ited, whereas with currencies backed by gold unwise acts are brought up with an effective check much quicker even though they may go far in the creation of difficulties before this happens when men are diverted too far away from sound methods in some principal proportion as to num­bers and relative opportunity to ex­ercise their wills. 
Gold in connection with currencies has two important uses; one, as a measure of the relative value of com­modities between each other, and the other as a means to settle balances, especially in the latter case as be­tween the nationals of different coun­tries. 
The reason why gold takes such an important part in the settlement of 

• balances between nations is due to the fact that national laws build walls around a people that are high or low, depending upon taxation, and its methods, financial systems, and tar­iffs, embargoes and customs prac­tices over frontiers. Walls so created to the extent of their existence cur­tail the ability of an. individual or corporation in any country in operat­ing with those in other countries. The result is that national groups become involved in the total activities of the individuals within the groups as against national groups in other countries in connection with their in­dividual operations. It therefore be­comes necessary for balances as be­tween nations that develop because of uneven trade, services and finan­cial operations to be met by gold shipments that represent balances, or such parts of balances as are desired by creditors. 
If a national group, meaning the people of any one country, buys more than it sells continually over a per­iod of years, figuring as sales, be­cause together with the settlement of such balances as can be met in gold it is able to borrow to meet deficits, it must reach a point when its gold holdings are dissipated and its power to borrow is destroyed. 
The political acts of peoples also have their influence in measuring the ability of national groups to carry on trade where credits are involved. When a people are overtaxed, other things being equal, it lowers their equality with other peoples as to abil­ity to trade and over-taxation is the universal method of peoples through their governments to get into finan­cial trouble followed by more taxa­tion to try and lift themselves by their bootstraps out of the sloughs of despond into which they have brought themselves. 
When a country weakens its finan­cial position in relation to other countries through constant over use of foreign facilities to import goods and receive credit and creates unwise internal taxation it will lose its gold unless government prevents its ship­ment in which case it will simpiy reach the limit of its unfortunate op­erations a little quicker than might otherwise occur. 

When the acts of men in many countries move along lines that cre­ate such developments and gold moves out to other countries is gold at fault? Is not the so-called mal­distribution of gold that follows merely the result of the unwise acts of men instead of having anything whatsoever to do with gold as a back­ing to currency? 
Again if gold were abandoned as a measure of commodity prices and as a means to settle balances that were temporary in their nature as be­tween two countries that might be due to seasonal excesses in trade one way or another how would it in­crease the abilitj' of the people of any nation to trade with those of other nations, and if they persisted in exercising uneconomic forces to the end of their ability how could it 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
save them from the hardship certain to follow such acts? 
Further, if gold as a standard of measure were abandoned how would commodities be measured against each other in values except on the basis of barter unless some other standard were found, and is there any way that chaotic conditions could be prevented after the abandonment of gold and before something at least as satisfactory has been found to take its place? Is it conceivable that with the present density of popula­tions in the world upon all of the 
continents that the exchange of goods on any basis of barter could be car­ried on with sufficient speed to pre­vent great hardship and even star­vation ? 
The movement of commodity prices as expressed in gold is also being at­tributed to that metal rather than to the acts of men which cause them. 
It is entirely conceivable that a time might come when the amount of gold in the world was not suffi­cient to support the credit trade base needed to enable the trade of the world to be carried on, although in view of present gold holdings and known gold reserves in the mines of the world and growing efficiency ;n the use of glod for credit purposes, such a time cannot be expected to arise during this generation on a basis of sound business operation. 
It is also conceivable, although it seems improbable for a long time to come, that some better means of car­rying on trade may be developed. 
After admitting these two possi­bilities we must acknowledge that their consummation is too far in the future to have anything to do with the present depression and that is what concerns us at the moment. 
Just how the weight of gold can be bearing down upon the trade of the world so as to cause the deflation that exists today when only a few yeai-s ago it supported a credit structure immensely greater than that which now exists is incomprehensible. 
It would seem important that we get away from trying to contemplate equa­tions as moving forces, even though they might carry a true statement of conditions, provided all of the ele­ments were known quantities. Until we do this and analyze effectively the causes for changes in commodity prices from the standpoint of the hu­man being rather than of inanimate objects we cannot make much prog­ress in the prevention of the recur­rence of times of depression. 
Every commodity has its own price curve. This curve is based upon sup­ply and demand and it moves some­times over and sometimes under the price curve of other commodities. Sup­ply is primarily based upon quantity. 
accessibility, and durability of raw materials, together with the changing ability of man in relation to the re­covery, preparation and processing of raw materials further measured by the means of transportation and dis­tribution. Demand arises from man's necessities and desires, together with his ability and willingness to exercise such desires. 
A natural demand can be utterly destroyed by a changed public psy­chology. Again an under supply may become an over supply almost over night if the habits and customs of the people change or new inventions or discoveries arise to interfere with de­mand or the relationships between supply and demand. 
The urge to buy arises in the case of the ultimate consumer from need or desire for the thing itself. The urge to buy on the part of the entre­preneur is based upon his opinion as to the demand from the ultimate con­sumer and of supply as he conceives it to exist. A constant dispersion in the prices of commodities of all kinds is going on that is the result of the acts of men as applied to supply and demand. 
In addition to this dispersion thsre are general movements up and down that repi-esent an avei-age of all com­modity prices. Such movements, while they change the relationship of the average commodity price to the meas­ure gold, ordinarily occur entirely without any reference to such rela­tionship. They are due to the belief on the part of weighted public opin­ion on the basis of its exercised ac­tivity that from the movement of prices preceding any moment they are 
going up or down. 
When, for instance, the so-called commodity price level has shown a rising tendency over a short period buying of raw materials is first stimu­lated followed by increased buying by wholesalers, retailers and consumers. 
The stimulation thus create d strengthens the rising price movement and all engaged in pursuits which necessitate them to buy before they sell feel the urge to act in making purchases as much before the time of their actual need as is feasible. 
As prices continue to rise the time comes when purchasers of goods all along the line up to the consumer in­crease the supplies of those goods in which they operate beyond normal. On such a movement profits naturally in­crease as the motion of prices results in a wider spread between buying and selling figures. The distribution of such profits increases the consuming power of the public and accelerates purchases for consumption. The rising prices require a continual g^i'owing need for credit to meet the same turn­over and a further addition of credit lines to carry larger inventories. This 
increases bank loans which increases deposits, and the profits in financial operations. In default of any natural catastrophe or political upset such a movement becomes accelerated as it proceeds over the coarse of months and years and expenditure and ex­travagance grow on the part of governments as well as of the people as taxes increase on the same base of tax returns until finally a peak in 
prices is reached. 
The first notice of the approach of such peak comes from bankers who find that they are being called upon for loans against greatly reduced quantities of commodities because of the higher prices which tells its story to them in two forms; one, a great increase in the total amount of credit asked for and two, a smaller collateral security in the goods that are directly or indirectly back of such credits. At about the same time or before markets begin to grow less for this and that and the other branch of industry and with increasing breadth before the 
• peak is reached. 
Then comes a fall in prices, precipi­tate or gradual, depending in some proportion upon the amount of credit extended as the top is being reached for the purchase of commodities, real estate, properties, or securities bor­rowings which can only be met by sudden turnover of collateral upon a falling market. 
Gold need take no part in such a movement as the amount of credit re­quired for the turnover of goods on the prices' that have developed does the work of itself. 
This again, however, is only brought about by the acts of men which means that buying of commodities begins to fall off because of high prices and re­sistance to new borrowing for manu­facturing purposes and reduced de­mand results in reduced production. 
The psychological change, however, is ordinarily sufficiently great to re­sult in less buying than might be warranted, other things being equal, because of the belief that prices after they have turned will continue to fall and that raw materials, manufactured goods and other commodities can be purchased for less money. 
Retailers naturally resist the fall in prices with the hope of being able to dispose of inventories without loss. This individual eflbrt of retailers which represents a general activity on the part of practically all of them causes consumers to hold back even more in their buying than they might otherwise do. The reason is that the fall in wholesale prices presages a later fall in retail prices and there­fore there is a holding back by buyers that prevents even normal consump­tion. The bottom of this phase of the cycle is usually reached when the mo­
(Continued on Pase 174) 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS April-May, 1932 
RMMII Wtl(ttfHHH«t(r»HfH(nMIMtlHII*MII>llllllllltllllttltll IIIDIIIIlllllllllllltlllllDiiiitllllllltlllilllliiiiiitlliillllll 
Q 
EDITORIALS 

B' 
llllllttDllillilllli 
WHO -ARE NOTABLES? 
"A recent article in the ALUMNUS caused one man to chaif me about the sorry list of Notre Dame notables." 
The above sentence was reprinted in the Eeligious Survey of Alunmi, part of the answer to a question on the world's opinion of Notre Dame men as leaders. While it is true that it did not represent a majority opinion, there are too many adverse answers to the same ques­tions, too many who evaded the question entirely. 
"Notables," Webster defines as "persons of distinction." 
"Distinction" he defines as a "mark of difference or superiority." 
Once, when men achieved distinction by superiority and became notables by merit, Notre Dame might have viewed with some dismay the apparent dearth of alumni in the limelight. 
Today, this absence of luminaries is a significant trib­ute! 
Who are the world's notables? Al Capone, Clarence Darrow, Dizzy Dean, Clarence Cook Little, Norman An­thony, Rudy Vallee, Peggy Joyce, Babe Ruth, Margaret Sanger, Clark Gable, Jean Harlow, and who's yours? 
Superiority is no longer mental. The n has been re­moved. It's metal. With several it's gold; Al Capone, lead; most of the rest of them, brass, ^vith possibly, for Miss Harlow, platinum. 
With no particular personal references to the above headliners, the Catholic lawj'er, business man, playwright, teacher or doctor, finds himself so handicapped, in this present civilization by observation of even the most fun­damental scruples, that leadership or Faith become his alternatives. This explains the statement that the ab­sence of leaders, as the world sees and hears them, is a compliment to the character of the individual Notre Dame man and to Notre Dame. 
But the ALUMNUS continues to maintain that Notre i>ame boasts as many leaders, as many notables, in the interpretation of a sounder era, as its years could ask and its circumstances expect. More! 
Notre Dame has been selective only in character. The poor boy, from Father Sorin's earliest trade school, has found at Notre Dame an educational haven. Few alunmi have graduated into well established careers. 
Catholics, by virtue of their training in the Command­ments, in charity, in support of religion and education, are essentially handicapped, if conscientious, in amass­ing quick fortunes. 
Notre Dame, with its nud-19th Century birth and un­endowed development, occupies a place peculiarly high among the nation's universities; a place which, rather accidentally won in the flush of youth, is being held sur­prisingly well. 
The ALUMNUS is confident that the true Notre Dame man is not ashamed of the absence of the great majority of his fellows from the Supreme Court Bench, from the 
"" ••"Hllllillinlll IIMIIMIIIItlMMIMlllllllMIMIIItllll MIMIIitl fllltlllMIMIIIIlQ 
World Court, from the list of Presidents, from the Who'.s Who of banker and industrialist, from the literature and art of the modernists. 
He remembers too well that in the Church, from whose tower bells chimed away four precious years of life and learning, he has heard that it may profit a man nothing to gain the whole world. 
-•4­

UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT 
The ALUMNUS wishes to take this opportunity to express the appreciation of the officers of the Association for the co-operation of the Club in the observance of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night on April 18. This was a difii­cult year. Worry and money were factors which might well have discounted the success of the Ninth Annual Night to a large degree. That they did not reflects the energy and efficiency of the officers of the various Clubs. A perusal of the Club columns will bring home specifically what this paragraph deals with in general. 
-*«­

OAVEN D. YOUNG, COMMENCEMENT ORATOR 
The ALUMNUS takes this opportunity to applaud editorially the selection and acceptance of Mr. Owen D. Young as the speaker for the Commencement exercises on June 5. Mr. Chesterton would have gloried in Mr. Young. His international comprehension, his financial genius and 
the titanic proportions of his labors, as balanced against his idealization of the small town, the small college, and the development of the individual on a plan of liberal education, challenge the skill of Notre Dame's doctor of paradoxes. Mr. Young has disproved thoroughly the theory of inconsistency between culture and Big Business. His selection for and acceptance of the address at Notre Dame to the Class of 1932 will do much to mitigate the 
temporal misfortune to which this Class has fallen heir. 
-»•­

. . . CONDITIONS BEING WHAT THEY ARE . . . 
No comment is complete today without some obsei-va­tion on the depression and its ramifications. 
There is a tendency among alumni to look upon the good ship JOE CAMPUS as immune from the economic rocks that jut menacingly from the sea of fiscal life at this low tide of finance. 
Our own ship is fortunate in its pilot at this time, but no pilot can completely escape the cuts of Scylla and the eliminations of Charybdis. Only the steadiest hand and the clearest eye can pull through at all, with probably a few months in dry dock at the end. But if the folks along the old home coast will just keep a light in the window, this little radio from shipboard expresses the hope of the officers that ship and cargo will dock without casualities. 
April-May, 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Alumni Participation In The Rockne Memorial » » » » 
Accompanying this article is the report to date of the Eockne Memorial Association, Inc., regarding alnnuii par­ticipation in the nation-wide campaign for funds to erect a field house in memory of Knute K. Rockne, '14. 
It is significant as representing the probable reason for the slow growth of the fund generally. The per capita contribution is high, approximately ?50, but the total number of alumni is far too low, less than 10%. 
The answer probably lies in the desire of the individual to do more than present economic conditions warrant, and, in lieu of modifying his gift, he postpones it entirely. 
If the remaining graduates of the Association roster gave only |o each, it would double the present alumni section of the Fund. Carrying the same theory into the larger field of Eockne's inestimable public, the conclusion is obvious. There is a growing opinion that the original purpose of the Fund was not thoroughly understood, namely to secure from the vast number of followers of Eockne's career a sm all gift to be united in a great memorial worthy of the man and his work. In view of the numbers of these followers, the per capita participation should have normally been very light. It would have served the purpose of the Memorial better to have been built by 200,0C0 gifts of ?5 than five gifts of $200,000. 
It is not yet too late. The Association can hardly rest content while so many of Eock's own fellow alumni remain unlisted in this movement. One dollar, five, or ten will serve to place your name on the roll of contributors. If that is all your cii'cumstances permit, it is worth as much as the thousand of someone else. 
The ALUMNUS had not intended to comment on this but the attached figures were too accusing to resist. 
The figures concern graduates only and were submitted to the ALUMNUS on April 20. 
Number of Alumni  Number of Alumni  Number of Alumni  Number of Alumni  
Slate  in the State  Pledsins in State  Amount Pledsed  State  in the State  Pledging in State  Amount Pledged  
Alabama  8  2  ?  400.00  Nevada  4  0  
Arizona  12  1  20.00  New Hampshire  3  2  %  60.00  
Arkansas  10  2  15.00  New Jersey  137  9  727.50  
California  111  9  "  645.00  (Newark)  *25  *3  *530.00  
Connecticut  64  6  220.00  New Mexico  10  1  10.00  
Colorado  28  0  New York  527  58  4,178.00  
Delaware  2  1  25.00  (N. Y. City)t  246  t41  t3,494.00  
Washington, D. C. 32  1  100.00  North Carolina  3  2  200.00  
Florida  15  5  120.36  North Dakota  12  0  
Georgia  6  1  200.00  Ohio  473  29  1,116.00  
Idaho  8  0  Oklahoma  27  4  37.00  
Illinois  899  54  3,775.50  Oregon  47  1  10.00  
(Chicago)  *555  *47  *3,604.50  Pennsylvania  265  24,  1,354.75  
Indiana  715  101  5,016.00  Rhode Island  5  0  
(South Bend)  *300  *44  *2,876.00  South Dakota  19  4  13.00  
Iowa  104  3  125.00  Tennessee  19  4  18.00  
Kansas  24  4  40.00  Texas  76  6  207.00  
Kentucky  59  13  96.50  Utah  6  0  
Louisiana  30  1  50.00  Virginia  5  0  
Massachusetts  104  6  261.00  .  Vermont  11  3  80.00  
Michigan  292  16  483.00  Washington  26  2  200.00  
Minnesota  108  IX  365.00  West Virginia  20  0  
Mississippi  15  0  Wisconsin  151  13  300.00  
Missouri  88  7  305.00  Wyoming  11  1  10.00  
Montana Nebraska  25 37  0 2  19.60  4,653  409  520,803.21  

* Amount included in State totals. 

fNew York City totals are included in the State totals. 
J New York City totals include New York City, Brooklj-n and Lons Is land. 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS April-May, 1932 
GOLD 

PRE-REGISTRATION RESISTING DEPRESSION (Continued from PaKC 171) 
Figures from the Registrar's office as the ALUMNUS gets under way this month indicate that the Univer­sity, barring complete financial col­lapse of the country, will not suffer beyond contemporary institutions. .As 
a matter of fact, pre-regjstration of students now at Notre Dame intend­ing to return next year is almost up to the figures of corresponding date last year. 
Figures for freshman enrollment are not particularly significant at this time either from corresponding data of previous years or at this date. But generally speaking, unless the nation­al policy of refusing commitals on any project until consummation is immi­nent prevails, there will be a more noticeable falling off in this classifi­cation. 
It is not a breaking down of pride or an indication of panic to suggest that alumni can naturally confer a favor on the University at this time by instituting a carefully aggressive policy in the stimulation of student 
enrollment among their friends and the students of the schools in their territory. 
The University publishes adequate literature for the information of stu­dent prospects and their parents or for the alumnus who wishes to in­form himself before approaching a student. Conditions have changed so that it is not a reflection on alumni interest to suggest that a freshening of the data on Notre Dame is bene­ficial to any alumnus out more than a year or two before he endeavors to sell Notre Dame to a friend. -A cata­logue of the general University or any specific department will be sent to you or to anyone whose name and address you may send to the Regis­trar. 
The University is also in a position at this time to establish personal con­tact wherever a group of boys are interested in securing first hand in­foi-mation. 
A note elsewhere in this issue re­minds alumni that a large part of Notre Dame's success in surviving sans substantial endowment is due to income from "hotel features." There­fore enrollment here is a more vital problem than in many institutions more fortunate in permanent possess­ion of the world's goods. 
That Notre Dame has a decided problem in contacting sources of attendance is evident from the fact that the present student body repre­sents the alumni of 1,288 separate and distinct high schools and preparatory 
schools. These in turn are representa­tive of every state in the United States and 16 foreign countries. This source is obviously different from those localized institutions whose bulk­ing student body comes from the immediate area or from a i-ather permanent list of preparatory insti­tutions. 
Costs at Notre Dame are, at first glance, somewhat higher than the comparative charts from other insti­tutions of corresponding ranking. But an analysis of the costs here, with the 
perspective of the full life Notre Dame offers its students without fur­ther investment, brings the annual cost of attending Notre Dame within the most modest sphere of finances in practically any private educational institution of similar rank and ad­vantages. 
mentum of production, together with the results of the cancellation of or­ders due to falling prices, has fallen so far under consumption and con­tinued for such a period that con­sumption has overtaken goods in stock and in process. 
The length and depth of the de­scending curve, however, can be great­ly increased if political difficulties in the nations intervene and if govern­mental expenditure is not promptly stopped so that there may be relief from taxation which with falling prices becomes excessive even if it wei-e not over-burdensome during the period of high prices. 
These acts of men in their endeavor to make their living and that repre­sent the exercise of their combined opinions in some important proportion as anticipating rising prices or falling prices serves to move the price index up and down regardless of any ques­tions having to do with gold. During all such periods, however, whether prices may be moving up or whether they may be moving down, having current values positively expressed in the gold measure makes it possible for trade to move at sufficient speed to enable life to go on during adjust­ments even though it may be difficult. 
The gold measure, however, cannot be active in itself and it can neither prevent nor alleviate movements of the price level except as men exercise their opinions through purchases and sales in the market for production and for consumption. 
The control of the cycle movement within the bounds of general li\-ing comfort can only be brought about through increased intelligence and un­derstanding on the part of humanity. Under present conditions gold, its quantity, the method of its use and the desire which men have for it is the most important check that exists to protect mankind from the unfortu­nate effects that follow unwise judg­ments, individually and collectively in production and consumption that are based primarily upon the action of the laws of supply and demand. Gold to­day is doing the work that mankind demands of it. It cannot be abolished as a measure of the value of com­modities without causing even more chaotic conditions than those which prevail at the moment. If the natural checks offered by currencies backed by gold are not sufficient to guide men along sound lines they certainly are not ready to enter upon a period of managed currencies. 

The above article is printed through the co-operation of the American Alumni Council of which the Notre Dame Alumni Association is a mem­ber. 
April-May, 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Alumnus Has Largest Golf Library in World 
R. Otto Probst, '11, South Bend, Possesses Rare Collection As The Result of Ten Years' Effort; Still Seeking To Complete Archives. 
The following columns are reprint­ed from the South Bend Tribune of Sunday, May 1, describing the achieve­ment that has resulted from the hobby of R. Otto Probst, '11. 
In addition to his regular woi'k as statistician for the Indiana and Mich­igan Electric Company, Mr. Probst is an ardent golfer, treasurer in fact of a local golf club, and is also a com­missioned officer in the E. 0. T. C, ha\-ing recently been made a major. 
In view of the Alumni Open Golf Tournament at Commencement this storj' about Mr. Probst is of particu­lar interest and will probably make him the storm center of the local links. 
The tournament, by the way, will be 36 holes, medal play, assuming that all our golfers are reading this. Rev. Raymond Murch, C.S.C, '23, will be in general charge of the event and pro\ision will be made for registra­tion of alumni entrants on their ar­rival on the campus. 
Now to the interesting story by Bob Overaker concerning Mr. Probst and his library: 
Books on golf—hundreds of them— printed in English and foreign lan­guages, others in poetry, still others purely pictures, are contained in the library of R. Otto Probst, treasurer of the" Erskine Park Golf club at his home here. 
In the current issue of a magazine a writer treats of a golf library lo­cated in an eastern city, which to his knowledge, is the most complete of its kind anywhere. It is the belief of Probst, however, that his own libraiy is by far more complete than the sub­ject of the periodical story. 
A lover of rare books, and yet him­self an ardent golfer, Probst started his collection of golf books back in 1923 when he acquired Seymour Dunn's "Golf Fundamentals." Today his librai-y numbers over 500 books, exclusive of hundreds of pamphlets, written by eminent golf authorities since the ancient Scottish game was liz-st played. 
While searching for rare books on the subject, Probst has traveled ex­tensively throughout the east and has correspondence with publishing con­cerns in England, Scotland, Germany, Australia and France. Any number of books in his collection have been sent to him from foreign countries. 
Just how far patience may be ex­tended to acquire one certain book \yas demonstrated when Probst waited three years to obtain "A Caddie of St. Andrews," by Gilbert Watson. It was owned by the Golfers' Magazine Librai-y of Chicago and the concern would not part with the coveted book. 
When the Chicago firm recently went into the hands of a receiver, Probst purchased the entire library of 100 books to get the muchly sought manuscript. The 100 books thus pur­chased represent his latest addition to his library, arriving only last week. 
Found in Probst's collection are books by the following authors: James Balfour, foi-mer prime minister of England; James Braid, one of the Big Three of English golfdom; G. S. Brown, G. W. Beldam, Peter Baxter, Henry Cotton, captain of the English golf team last year; Glenna CoUett, Robert Chambers, David S. Duncan, editor of English Golfing Annual from 1890-1910. 
Bernard Darwin, Chick Evans, Robert Foi'gan, authors of the first Golfer's Handbook in the 60's, Har­old Hilton, Horace G. Hutchinson, Cho Ito, Japanese writer, Robert Tyre Jones, Jr., 0. B. Keler, Andree Ku­keldy, H. B. Martin, J. H. Taylor, P. 
A. Vaile,- Harry Vardon, W. Hastings Webling, A. W. Tillinghast, and Eti, the French author. 
Anything that any golfer may de­sire to learn about the game is cov­ered by some author in books collected by Probst. Should you care to im­prove your game through singing he has songs on golf, if you would care to carry an illustrated pamphlet around the course, showing various modes of addressing the ball, this he has. Anything and everything may be found in his librai-y on golf. 
Writings based on the classics are among the collection. One is David Douglas' articles, "Shakespeare on Golf." The articles contain excerpts from all the various works of the famous bard of the Avon whenever he referred to golf. "Horace of the Links," by Horace G. Hutchinson, was founded on the aristocrat of Roman literature, "Horace," familiar to stu­dents of modern languages. 
The most complete collection is the "Golfing Annual," published in Eng­land. The library shelves the first edition in 1887 until the publishing firm merged in 1910 and the publica­tion of the annual ceased. 
One book which the eastern libra­rian has searched for and has not yet acquired, "The Gate to Golf," by the late Douglas Edgar, is among the collection of books. This edition was secured from a second-hand book deal­er in New York City. 
Among the rare books collected is "Golfing Poems," by John Thomason. The volume happens to be one of the 50 printed in 1893. One of the oldest books secured is "Hoyle's Games," published in 1825. The book contains many games, among which mention is made of "goff." 
A very beautiful book, containing reproductions from oil paintings by famous artists showing various pic­tures pertaining to golf, is numbered among the collection. The complete mail order coui'se an eastern concern attempted to put on the market also is to be found in the library. If one ever mastered the game as outlined in the correspondence course, he would become the champion of every tourna­ment he desired to enter, so simple was the play depicted. 
Authors did not devote all time to writing on the art of golf, as proven by any number of interesting novels Probst has. Mystery, murder and beautiful romances served as inspira­tions for penmen at various times. Among these novels are such books as "The Lost Golfer," by Hutchinson; "The Golf Club Murder," by Owen Fox Jerome; "The Sorrow of a Golf­er's Wife," by Mrs. Edward Kennard. 
Golf as viewed from a religious angle may be found in a book by John 
M. Vander Mulen. The book contains nine chapters, each a sermon in itself. 
Autographed copies secui'ed by Probst include books by Chick Evans, Peter Baxter, J. McAndrew, Bob Mac­Donald, W. Hastings Webling, W. G. Van Tassel Stutphen, Walter J. Tra­vis, A. W. Tillinghast, and John Kerr. 
Although Probst instituted h i s search for rare and modem books on golf he has not yet secured all he cares to number in his library. 
A desire to obtain 135 more books is held by Probst, and according to him 100 of that number are in for­eign countries, the remainder he hopes to find in the United States. 
While it seems that such a library which Probst now points to with pardonable pride should be the last word in golf libraries, yet_ one little book which he desires most is missing. That book, entitled "Golf" by James Dwight, published by a Boston firm, is the object of Probst's search at present. The price is 10 cents. 
176 THENOTKEDAMEALUMNTJS April-May, 1932 
|»|MlllllltlllllllltlltllltllllllMIIIIII1lllltlllllllllllll>llllllltlllllltllll'«lllltlltllllllltltllltlllllll>lllll>tltttl'lllllltttlltllttll1lllltlinil»MIMIItllll«tlllllltl>||Mlllltl««IIMII*lll»t'<t>lllll*»lllllll>lll|lttll1IIIIIIIIIMIIlCT 
I  Eighty-Eishth  A nnual  Commencement  I  
I  University  of  Notre  Dame  I  
I  [GENTRA L  STANDAR D  TIME]  |  

FRIDAY, JUNE S 

Alumni Registration, Alumni and Dillon Halls for Gampus Residence. Alumni Office for Senior and General Registration. The Alumni Golf Tournament will open Friday on the "William J. Burke - University Golf Course. 
12:30 P. M. President's Address to the Glass of 1932 (Private). 
3:00 P.M. Meeting of the Local Club Council. 
6:00 P. M. Reunion Dinners (Private Arrangement). 
7:00 P.M. Concert by the University Band, Main Quadrangle. 
8:15 P.M. The University Theatre presents John Drinkwater's "Abraham Lincoln," Washington Hall. 
SATURDAY, JUNE 4 

Alumni Registration will continue as above. Alumni Golf Tournament will also continue. 
8:00 A.M. Reunion Mass for Deceased Alumni, Sacred Heart Church. 
9:30 A.M. Last ^^sit of the Class of 1932, Sacred Heart Church (Private). 
10:00 A.M. Class Day Exercises and Awarding of Honors, "Washington Hall. 
12:00 M. Luncheon, Commerce Alumni, University Dining Halls.. 
2:00 P.M. Baseball, Michigan State College vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field. 
4:30 P.M. Dedication of the John F. Gushing, G.E. '06, Hall of Engineering. Address: the Honorable Sergius P. Grace, New York City. 
6:00 P.M. Annual Alumni Banquet. 
7:00 P. M. Concert, Studebaker Band, Main Quadrangle. 
8:30 P.M. Musical Clubs Presentation, "Washington Hall. 
SUNDAY, JUNE 5 

8:30 A.]iL Academic Procession, Main Building to Sacred Heart Church. 
9:00 A.M. . Solemn Pontifical Mass, Sacred Heart Church. Celebrant, the Most Reverend John Francis Noll, D.D., LL.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, Indiana. Baccalaureate Sei-mon, the Most Reverend James E. Cassidy, D.D., Bishop 
of Fall River, Massachusetts. Music, the Moreau Seminary Choir. Mass will be followed by the blessing of the Senior Flag. 
11:00 A. M. Raising of the Senior Flag, Main Quadrangle. Music by the University Band. 
12:00 M. Monogram Club Luncheon, University Dining Halls. 
4:30 P. M. Awarding of Degrees, University Gymnasium. Commencement Address, the Honorable Owen D. Young, New York City. 
REUNION  CLASSES  
Silver Jubilee  Dix Glasses  5-Year Reunion  
1907  1889  1908  1927  
1890  1909  
1891  1910  
1892  1911  

QltlllMIIIIIMMIIMMIIItllMillKIIIIIDMUIIIIIMIIIIItlMIMllDtlMll IIMIIIIIIItllllliniMilMIIIIIIIIIMI •••Illinit •IMI»MMMIMllllWIIIIIIIIMI>MltMIHHMIHI|imHIIHIIIllHlllllllimtlllllHIIUIIIMIIIIIIpj 
1932 Commencement Has Many Attractions 
Highlights of Eighty-Eighth Awarding of Degrees Seem to Oifer Opportunity for Ignoring the Depression; Record Class to Enjoy New Features; Owen D. Young Heads Program. 
Notre Dame has balanced the trep­idation which the Class of 1932 na­turally feels for its economic debut by the greatest Commencement pro­gram in the history of the University. 
Owen D. Young, international fi­nancial authority, scholar, potential presidential nominee, recently re­elected chairman of the board of the General Electric Company, and, in addition to these marks of the world's goods, an ardent advocate of liberal education, will deliver the Commence­ment address. He provides a nucleus about which the Commencement pro­gram is solidly constructed. 
Banking a close second to Mr. Young in headlining the 1932 exer­cises is the dedication of the John F. Gushing C. E. '06 Hall of Engineer­ing. Every alumnus of Notre Dame ought to be on hand for this dedica­tion of a building as beautiful in ar­chitecture and complete in equipment as it is significant of the generous appreciation of Notre Dame by an alumnus. Mr. Cushing's gift is three­fold in its influence. It recognizes the value Notre Dame gave to the student. It evidences a tribute to the merits of the administration of the University and it signifies im­plicit faith in the University's fu­ture with an added willingness to accelerate that success. 
The Hon. Sergius P. Grace, engi­neer and scientist, will deliver the principal address at the dedication, which will take place on Saturday afternoon at 4:30. Mr. Grace gave a lecture and demonstration of the progress of engineering in the trans­mission of voice at Notre Dame last year which keenly interested a most appreciative audience. 
One of the' artistic treats in store 

for those attending Commencement 
is the presentation by the University 
Theatre on Friday night at S:15 on 
the storied stage of Washington Hall 
of the famous play, "Abraham Lin­
coln," by John Drinkwater. The selec­
tion of the dramatic masterpiece is 
in keeping with the high standard of 
drama established long years ago, 
and maintained, by an illustrious line 
of talented alumni. The ability of 
Prof. Frank Kelly, '17, to direct the 
Theatre has been proved long since, 
to quote recent examples from the Commencement plays, remembe r . "Journey's End," and "Julius Caesar." 
An innovation this year that is ad­mittedly experimental is the combi­nation of the Annual Meeting of the 
Association with the Alumni Ban­quet. Commencement programs have become so involved with the increased size of the graduating Classes that time for the various events of the growingly complex Alumni Associa­tion has become very limited. Prin­cipally, however, the Annual Meeting has'weakened in its scope and appeal because of the transferring of vari­ous functions formerly vested in it to other bodies, the mails, the Alum­ni magazine, the Board of Directors, and the Council of Local Clubs, to be specific. It is the belief of the Board this year that the few formalities left to the Annual Meeting,—the in­duction of the Senior Class, the reso­lution In Memoriam, and the oificers reports, can be incorporated into a fifteen minute session on the banquet floor which vnll thus reach the ma­jority of the alumni at Commence­ment and will leave the Sunday hours between the raising of the Senior Flag and the Commencement exercises at 4:30 free. This is of interest primarily to the Seniors, whose Sunday is heavy enough with the Baccalaureate Mass and the Com­mencement Exercises proper, and it also provides a few free hours for alumni groups or indiriduals to in­dulge many of those whims and longings which come to the absent Notre Dame man. 
While alumni and the public have always been willing to participate in the beautiful ceremonies of the Sol­emn Pontifical Mass, the growth of the graduating Classes in the past seven years has made it impossible for any but the Seniors and their parents, to be accommodated in Sa­cred Heart Church. Those who will be fortunate enough this year will have the pleasure of listening to the learned and eloquent Bishop of Fall Eiver, Massachusetts, The Most Rev­erend James E. Cassidy, D. D. 
Alumni golfers are to inaugurate an annual tournament, the winner of which will have his name on a beau­tiful alumni trophy which will re­main permanently at the University, unless won three times by the same individual, when it will pass into his permanent possession. The high cal­iber of Notre Dame golfers, best evi­denced on the campus since the for­mation of the golf team and the building of the William J. Burke course, makes this tournament one which should rapidly become one of 
•the highlights of Commencement ath­
letics. Play for the trophy will con­
tinue during the weekend. 
Michigan State, old rivals of Notre " Dame in athletics, will play the Com­mencement baseball game on Carticr Field at 2:00 P. M. Saturday. There is a movement on the part of the Class of '27, holding their 5-Year Reunion, to assemble some of their diamond talent for a challenge game with the varsity or other likely ma­terial during the progress of the 3-4-5. At date of writing there is nothing definite, but Steve Eonay, the piching professor (in the base­ball sense of the term), is allegedly gathering the far-flung in-and-out­fields.. 
Another special event which should be popular with a good cross-section of the returning alumni is the Spe­cial Luncheon of the Alumni of the College of Commerce, in the Lay Faculty Dining Room on Saturday at 12:00 o'clock. Dean McCarthy is general chairman of the event, which will be similar to the law Luncheon of last year. The members of the Commerce Faculty will be introduced, speeches will be practically barred, the world's commercial problems solved temporarily at least and just a general get-together. If you don't, by some chance, believe the ALUM­NUS, ask your nearest Lawyer. 
The presentation of the University Musical Clubs brings to the audience on Saturday night at 8:30 in Wash­ington Hall the very polished and pleasing organizations directed by Prof. Joseph Casasanta, '23. Tlie Glee Club scored heavily on its East-em trip this Spring. "The Band was one of the features of the last foot­ball season. The Jugglers are going to the Eucharistic Congress as the official orchestra of one of the larger tours. 
The Council of Local Alumni Clubs will meet at 3:00 P. M. Friday. So many things have been scheduled for Saturday and Sunday that the Alum­ni Office has deemed it advisable to schedule the third of these important conferences of Local Club represen­tatives for Friday. With the new Districts created by the Constitution the work of this Council becomes augmented and it is the hope of the Alumni Board that a full representa­tion of Clubs will be on hand for this meeting. 
Alumni will be housed on the cam­pus as is customary, with the excep­
(Continued on Fase 182) 
April-May, 19S2

Late Club News 
LOS ANGELES 

Dear Jim: 
The local club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a banquet at the University Club, which was followed by a business meeting and election of officers. 
About fifty members were present. Besides the old guard Manny Vezie, who is assisting Tom Lieb at Loyola (and who is now a proud father), AI Howard, back home for the Sum­mer. Al is Chuck Collins' assistant at North Carolina; Reggie Bittner, '29; Charlie Gass (just passed the Cal. bar) ,CharIes Eebiel, former Secretarj' of the N. D. Club of Tuc­son; Tom Madden, ex '29er, and ex-Chicagoan; and R. F. Nadolney. 
The present officers of the Club were re-elected: 
Henry Dockweiler, Honorary Pres­ident; John Wadden, President; W. E. Sidenfaden, Treasurer; and Larry Moore, Secretary. 
Plans were discussed, and Commit­tees appointed for our annual club Hi-Jinks, which will be held on May 14, and for a banquet to be given to the Notre Dame boys now at N. D. when they return this summer. 
Henry Dockweiler who is in charge of the Rockne Memorial Fund drive in Southern California told us of progress made so far, and the Club was glad to hear that Henrj^'s divi­sion is fourth highest in the country. Henry and John Wadden ai-e still on the Still Hunt and we will probably soon be in first place. 
The Club attended a Memorial Mass said for "Rock" on the anni­versary of his death. The Rev. T. C. Powers, C. M., Pastor of St. Vin­cent's said the Mass, and gave a won­derful sermon on "Rock" and his in­fluence on American youth. 
During his recent visit to Los An­geles Jesse Harper was a guest of the Club at a luncheon. The mem­bers were glad to have the opportun­ity of meeting Mr. Harper, and to receive some information regarding the coming season. 
Emmett McCabe, '29, is receiving his Master's Degree from the Univer­sity of Southern California this June. 
Jack McGee is now assistant mana­ger of the Todd Company office here. Jack insists that Todd checks won't bounce (not very high anjTvay) 
Ed Cunningham, '28, of Cunning­ham and O'Connor is developing that long sad look one usually associates with the profession. (The real reason for the sad look is because the Fed­erals have closed down the Maier Brewery). 
John Wadden still has his usual pep and sunny disposition despite a year as president of the Club. 
Two of the members have gone Hollywood: Manny Vezie has been kept quite busy, doing technical work on football pictures, and a little act­ing on the side. His latest work has been in Frank Wallace's "Huddle," Besides doing the technical work Manny plays the part of the Assist­ant Coach. Al Howard's "pepsodent" smile will be seen in Harold Lloyd's latest picture which is now in produc­tion. According to Joe Reddy, Lloyd's Publicity Director, and Jim Cooney of Variety (both strong N. D. rooters), Al would have quite a future in Hol­lywood if he would forget football, and his father's real estate business. 
Sid Sidenfaden, '29, has been pretty busy lately. Besides being Treasurer of the N. D. Club, he is President of the Young Peoples' Club in his par­ish. Captain of the Parish Club bas­ketball team—which incidentally won the Parish League—and in his spare time does a little -Accounting for the Union Oil Company. 
I'll try to be a better correspondent this year, Jim, and hope that by now enough of the gang has come through with their dues to insure the continu­ance of the ALUMNUS. 
Larry Moore. The address you asked about—Ver­non Rickord's—was correct at the time, but he has moved since. I don't know his home addressj but he sings at the Biltmore Hotel, and can be reached there. Larry. 
ICA.NE COUNTY Dear Jim: As Clarence Ruddy told you in a recent letter, we are organizing a Notre Dame Club in the vicinity of Kane County, Hlinois. The towns in­cluded are Elgin, Aurora, Batavia, Geneva, St. Charles, and several small surrounding villages. Our first meeting was held on Columbus Day last October and Jack Chevigny was speaker for the meeting. There were about 28 Alumni present—out of a possible 35 or 36. Our second meet­ing was held last night—^Universal Notre Dame Night—but due to the late start in planning for it, we only had 11. However, everyone who was there had a grand time. .4.s you said in your recent letter—^"it isn't how many we have, but the spirit of those who are there, that really puts the meeting over." We are planning to have two meet­ings during the summer, so as to give the present students a chance to get acquainted with the old boys, and al­so to show them what a good time 
N. D. men can have together long after they are out of school. You know Jim, the art of "throwing the bull" that N. D. men cultivate never' dies out. The oldest grads there last night just held their own with us younger fellows. We are plan­ning to have a golf match and a pic­nic during the summer. 
Here are a few of the personals of the club, and what the boys are doing: 
Ward Gosselin (Special Student, '24, '25, '26) is manager of his father's hotel in .A.urora; John Gos­selin, '29, is married and is auditor at the hotel; Clarence Ruddy, '27, is Democratic Nominee for State's At­torney; Joseph Gardewins, '31, still young and happy and looking for a job; John Badrj', '27 and '28, selling advertising for his dad; Carl Schick­ler, '27, still holding down a desk with U. S. Gypsum; Herbert Braun, '27, married and taking care of the heiress to his throne; P. F. Amfield, '14, living in Aurora and has a good position with Lyon Metal Prod­ucts; Walter O'Malley, '30, practic­ing law in Aurora; William B. Chaw-go, '31, selling life insurance for the above company. 
ALUMNI BACHELOR DINNER 
On January 18th, a Bachelor Din­ner was tendered by J. Q. Adams, '26, to Dan Cunningham, '27, in Parlor "\," of the Hotel Pennsylvania, New York. The following were present: 
William Reid, Joseph P. Burke, * Thomas Burke. Edw. A. Byrne, John 
T. Balfe, J. Norbert Gelson, Jr., Edw. 
A. Fallon, Hugh -A.. O'Donnell, John 
B. Law, J. F. Kenney, George D. Byrne, Lester 0. Grady, John E. Grunning, Nicholas F. Smith, -Am­brose O'Connell, Thos. Farrell, James Whalen, Joseph Whalen, Bernard Wingerter, Jack Wingerter, Harley McDevitt, Jerry Froelich, Jack La­velle, George Vergara, Dan. F. Cun­ningham, Jr., J. Q. -Adams. 
There were messages of condolence to the guests sent by Robert L. Ca-hill, James Dwyer, Dan O'Neill, Jas. 
F. Hayes, Lawrence V. Keefe, Frank 
L. Kane, Wilbur J. McElroy, Jos. V.. Lenihan, Geo. Vergara, John Howard, Chas. Judge; John McKenna, and Tom Farrell. 
Everybody had some very bad things to say about Dan. Eloquent addresses were given by Hugh O'Don­nell, the retiring President of the Notre Dame Club of New York, and John Kenney, the newly elected Pres­ident, and John Balfe, and Ambro.se O'Connell. Jack Adams acted as Toastmaster. It was a thoroughly enjoyable evening. 
This Dinner marked the occasion of the breaking away from the fold of about the eighth of the former Metropolitan Club members. The first was Bob Cahill, then came, Jim Whelan, Ed. A. Byrne, Lester Grady, and so on— 
President o( the University First to be Made 
Chevalier of the Order oF the Crown of Italy 
At a banquet held March 3 under the auspices of the Italian Club, the Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, C. S. 
C. was honored by the presentation of the insignia of "Chevalier of The Order of the Crown of Italy" by Cav. 
G. Castruccio, Royal Italian Consul of Chicago. Father O'Donnell was chosen to be so signally honored by the King of Italy, Victor Emmanuel III, in recognition of the services which he and several former presi­dents of Notre Dame performed in the furtherance of Italian culture at the University. 
In his speech of presentation. Cav. Castruccio congratulated Fathe r O'Donnell on this mark of esteem which was conferred upon him and noted the fact that very few men were chosen to be so awarded. Father O'Donnell being the first college pres­ident in the United States so hon­ored. He also sketched the history of The Order of Chevalier of the Crown of Italy, saying that it was established in 186S by Victor Emmanuel II and is one of the three orders that may be bestowed by the King. 
Father O'Donnell in accepting said he felt that the award came not as a personal distinction, but rather as a recognition coming to the Univer­sity of Notre Dame in view of the large number of Italian - .American students enrolled here and the oppor­tunity given them to study all of the aspects of Italian culture. He said that rather than being an award for services which he alone performed, it was in recognition of the great work of Father Sorin, Father Zahm, Father Cavanaugh, and Father Walsh in the collection of Italian works here. 
The banquet was attended by ap­proximately one hundred and hventy people, and was marked by the at­tendance of many distinguished guests. The Reverend John Cava­naugh, C.S.C. presided over the gath­ering as toastmaster. Some of the guests were: Mr. and Mrs. John Ri­gali, Mr. and Mrs. I. Valini, Judge Francis R. Allegretti, Judge J. Lupe, Judge John Sbarbaro, Cav. Bernard 
P. Barasa, Cav. Frencesco Bragno, Cav. Guiseppe Rossi, all of Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Proctor of Elkhart, and Professor P. Pirchio of the University. 
The arrangements for the banquet were made by general chairman, Sal 
A. Bontempo, secretary of the Italian Club. 
The Alumni Office has noticed in the contact work begun this year a very heavy percentage of Italian names in the applications. This is significant of the good influence Notre Dame's policies and opportunitie.s, and distinctions such as the above are having on the American people of Italian background. 
Prof. Pasquale Pirchio, '25, profes­sor of Italian at Notre Dame, is con­ducting a tour to the University of Rome this summer. The tour leaves New York June 24 on the M. V. Vul­cania, and after visiting Gibraltar, Algiers, Cannes, Naples and Venice, will proceed to Rome where members of the tour will enjoy six weeks of study at the U. of Rome. On August 22 the tour will resume its homeward journey. Lessons in the Italian lan­guage will be given on shipboard. Total cost of the tour is ?332. A number of Prof. Pirchio's classes are going over. Two other tours of Italy are being arranged through Prof. Pirchio and the same line, the Con­sulich Line. 
CAV. CASTRUCCIO BESTOWS THE DECORATION • 
The Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., '90, Former President, Looks On. 
Plan Indiana Bar Meeting To Be Held Here In July 
In preparation for the forthcoming convention of the Indiana Bar asso­ciation, to be held on the Notre Dame campus, two executives of that or­ganization spent several days here making arrangements. They were President Frank N. Richman, of Co­lumbus, Ohio, and the Honorable Orlo Deahl, president of the St. Joseph County Bar Association. 
Mr. Richman and Judge Deahl in­spected the new Law building and grounds which •will be the scene of the meeting to be held July 7 and 8. La^vyers and members of the associa­tion from throughout the state \vill be in attendance. 
Robert Pollock, Harvard Man, To Teach Here 
Announcement is made this week of the engagement of Robert M. Pol­lock as professor in the Department of Philosophy at the University, by the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C. 
S. C, head of the department. 
Professor Pollock received his mas­ter's degree from Harvard university some time ago. He spent several years teaching at Bowdoin college. 
For the past two years he has bean engaged in graduate work in the In­stitute of Medieval Studies, St. Mi­chael's college, Toronto university, Canada. He will receive his doctor of philosophy degree from that insti­tute in Jnne. 
Professor Pollock will begin his work at the University next Septem­ber. 
April-May, 1932

iiiiMiiiiiiMiiiitiiiiiia liiiiiKliiiiil itli •••••iiiiiiii)iiitttiitiiiiiillitiiiitliiitrlitii<aMii))ii>iiitiaiiiittiitiiiiiii 
" 13 
ATHLETICS: 

"BY JOSEFB PETEITZ, '32 ••••••••••"""'""""' •nmlS] 
Q.. 
Spring sports at Notre Dame are just poking their heads around the comer. A month or more of practice has given the coaches a line on ma­terial and each of the four teams. 
WILLIAM VEENEMAN-, '34 
Playing No. 1 on Golf Team 

track, baseball, tennis, and golf, has played at least one match as we gal­lop to press. Outside of ^ving you the results of these contests and pre­dicting \\-inning teams there is little we can tell you about the less strenu­ous forms of athletics. 
Before we forget, the basketball team wound up its season by winning its last two games from Marquette 
•and Butler, giving it a record of 16 straight victories and of 18 victories in 20 starts for the season. Big Ed Krause was deser%'-3dly named the first-string all-American center on all teams that came to our notice, the first all-American in basketball in Notre Dame history. 
And the track team won that meet we mentioned last month with Illinois. It also won meets with Butler, Iowa, and Marquette, and took first honors in the hottest Central Intercollegiate conference indoor meet so far re­corded. 
Coach John Nicholson got together a bunch of his half-milers recently to win the two-mile relay at Kansas in eight minutes, 3.3 seconds on a slow track. It was again the fine work of Alex Wilson, Canadian Olympic star, on the last leg that brought victory. The rest of the schedule appears in a box somewhere in this sectipn. 
Baseball, under Coach George Keo­gan, got off to a flying start with a pair of games against Big Ten teams and two more with the newly organ­ized South Bend "Twins," members of the Central league. Wisconsin found Captain Charley Palt on an off day and pounded out a 10 to 3 victory in the opening game. Charley came back the next day, however, to win a pitchers' dual from Henshaw of Chi­cago, 3 to 0. Henshaw truck out 14 men and gave up only five hits, but Captain Charley gave up only three bingles and fanned nine. 
Ed Dagger, a young giant from Joliet, 111., overcame some temporary neiT-ousness at the beginning of his first college game against the South Bend professionals, to win, 4 to 2. South Bend scored two runs in the first inning when Dagger walked two men, let one man hit safely, and saw a team-mate let another run in with an error. However, he fanned the side with the bases loaded and held South Bend in check the rest of the day while Notre Dame was tying the score in the third frame and winning in the eighth. 
The second game with South Bend again found Palt not himself. Charley is one left-hander who, when he has off days, has 'em bad. He gave five runs in the first inning and Coach Keogan left him in until he had given up five more in the third. The final score was 14 to 1, if it must be men­tioned. 
While the football, basketball, and track teams continue to grab off ban­ner headlines for their winning ways, the golf team plodded steadily on to its seventeenth and eighteenth con­secutive victories as the season opened this month. "Valparaiso fell, 17% to %, and Loyola of Chicago suffered a 16% to 1% beating. Captain Bill Redmond, the only veteran of the last two campaigns, seems to have inspired the new men with plenty of confi­dence. In fact, Redmond was num­ber three man on the squad for some time and has just come to the top of the heap recently. 
Tennis at Notre Dame has seldom been notoriously a winning game and this year's team had the misfortune to open against Western State, Michigan champions, and to lose, 9 to 0. How­ever, the addition of asphalt courts and better equipment than in the past should lead to a good showing this year, for there should be at least a half dozen good tennis players in a school of 3,000 young men. 
Head Coach Heartly (Hunk) An-
CAPTAIN PAUL HOST 
Leading Spring Practice 

derson reports that his football team is shaping up well and that he will be able to conclude spring practice Alay 7 instead of May 14, as he had pre­viously planned. And this in spite of the fact that the team has had to have one eye on a nest of meadow­larks found on the field and the other eye on the ball. 
Hering Awards 

Thirteen members of the Notre Dame spring football squad were awarded Hering football medals in the annual individual play contests held last weekend. Four of the win­ners were freshmen. 
Ben Alexander, monogram winner last fall, won the center passing con­test after a hard struggle in the pi-e­lininaries and finals with Johnny Ryan. Three other contests for line­men on offense went to members of the varsity squad of last fall. 
Norm Greeney and Joe Kurth staged a hard fought battle in the contest for offensive line charge with Kurth getting a close decision for the award. The prize for the best exhi­bition of guards pulling out of thti line went to Harry Wunsch, husky reserve on last year's varsity. 
In the third trial for offensive line­men, Frank Canale copped the medal for ends boxing tackles. Roberts was second in the scoring. The only other contest saw Mike Ledding nosing out Joe Kurth for the award for defen­sive tackle play. 
Eight backiield candidates merited medals in the remaining branches of 
Ray Brancheau got the award for the halfbacks blocking ends, Jimmy Leonard won the fuUbacks-on-ends prize, and Chuck Jaskwhich ranked first in the contest for quarterback;; 
ALEX WILSON 
Fleetfooted Canadian Breaking 

competition. Johnny Young, a fresh­man from Texas, snagged an arm­load of passes during the afternoon to take the pass-receiving prize. Al Costello, another freshman, won the contest for passing after a long bit of competition with Mettler, Cald­well, Beach, and Levins. 
Vic Mettler and Phil Crosson, a pair of freshmen quarterbacks, woimd up the yearling group of medal win­ners. Mettler scored a first in the punting contest, and Crosson led the place-kicking entrants. 
BASEBALL April 15—AVisconsin. 10: Notre Dame, 3. April IS—Xotre Dame. 3 : Chicago. 0. April 20—Notre Dame. 1: South Bcnil Central 
LeaRue, 2. April 21—South Bend Central League, 1-1: 
Notre Dame. 1. April 25—Indiana at Bloomington, rain. April 27—ChicaKO, 6: Notre Dame, 6: came 
called after 11 innings. May 4—^\Vestem State Normal at Notre Dame. May 7—Open. Hay 10—Northwestern at Notre Dame. May 14—^Michigan State at East Lansinfr. May 20—Iowa at Notre Dame. May 21—Iowa at Notre Dame. May 24—^\Visconsin at Madison. May 28—Northwestern at Kvanston. May 30—^^Vestem State Normal at Kalamazoo. June 4—^MichiKnn State at Notre Dame (Com­
mencement jrame). 

Records for Notre Dame 
blocking secondary defense men. The three decisions were close with Cos­tello forcing Brancheau, Red Hagan running second to Leonard, and Laurie Vejar second to Jaskwhich. 
Vejar annexed the final medal of the group, however, when he was named by the coaches as the most improved player on the squad during the spring drill. Hugh Devore, soph­omore end, copped the improvement award last year. Winners of one Hering medal are ineligible for any further competition in the contests. 
GOLF April 16—Notre Dame, 17*;^ : Valparaiso, %. April 23—Notre Dame, 16',4 : Loyola, ly.. April 29—Detroit at Detroit. April 30—Michigan State at East Lansing. May 4—Purdue at Notre Dame. May 7—Iowa at Notre Dame.­May 14—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh. May 21—State Meet at Grcencastle, Ind. 
TENNIS April 23—Western State, 9 : Notre Dame. 0. April 29—Northwestern at Notre Dame. April 30—^Armour Tech at Chicago. May G—Detroit at Notre Dame. May 11—Chicago at Chicago. May 20—Detroit at Detroit. May 21—Michigan State at East Lansing. May 24—Indiana State at Notre Dame. May 23—Michigan State at Notre Dame. 
TRACK April 23—Kansas Selays. Notre Dame* won two-mile relay. April 30—Drake Relays, two-mile team entered. May 7—^Alichigan State at East Lansing. May 14—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh. May 21—Open. May 28—^Army at Notre Dame. June 3—Central Intercollegiate meet at Mil­waukee. June 9-10—^N. C. A. A. meet at Chicago. 
LATE SPORTS— 
A busy week-end in spring sports resulted in several Notre Dame ac­complishments which were too late for the monthly summary of events, but which really are deserving of places in the record book. 
At the Drake relays, Alex Wilson showed himself again to be one of the best athletes in the country. Running anchor on the mile team, he finished in 49,5 seconds to give Notre Dame a victory and to establish a Notre Dame record of 3:19.9 for the distance. In the two-mile relay, Wil­son's brilliant 1:53.7 which overcame a handicap of 30 yards gave the Irish a meet record of 7:48.8. Tliis is also a Notre Dame record. 
The Notre Dame medley relay team ran second to Indiana's record-break­ing team which finished in the re­markable time of 10:19.1. Only three Notre Dame relay teams were entered. 
The baseball team blew a 5 to 1 lead in its game with Chicago, going into 11 innings to tie, G to 6, before the umps decided it was too dark to play any more baseball. Said umps made a couple of classic decisions in the two extra innings, one of which gave Notre Dame a run while the other shut off a potential run and ended the game. 
The golf team ran its victory streak to 20 straight dual matches in a three-year period by defeating De­troit, 10% to 7%, and taking Michi­gan State, 13 to 5. Both matches were played on the opponents' links. 
The tennis team dropped its sec­ond match of the season, 5 to 3, to Northwestern and was saved by rain from possible embarrassment when • the match with Armour Tech was cancelled because of rain. 
W, W, Gray. '84, Threatened 
Capture of a gang of bank rob­bers involved in a series of crimes at Evansville, Indiana, prevented, police discovered, the kidnaping of 
W. W. Gray, '84, president of the Citizens National Bank of Evansville. According to the confession of one of the bandits, Mr. Gray was to have been held for ?50,000 ransom. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS April-May, 1932 
F. HENRY WURZER, FORMER PRESIDENT, DIES 
F. Henry Wurzer, '98, of Detroit, Mich., for many years prominent in South Bend, a member of the Detroit, Michigan state and Indiana state bar associations, died suddenly at about 5 o'clock Wed­nesday even­ing, April 27, in his home in Detroit. Death resulted from a heart attack. 
Mr. Wurzer was born in Detroit in 
F. HEsnY wuiizHt, '98 1876, and was graduated from the Notre Dame law school in 1898. He became secretary to Congressman A. L. Brick in that year; in 1903 formed a law partner­ship with W. A. Mclnerny in South Bend, and in 1906 left South Bend and returned to Detroit to open a partnership with his brother, I^ouis C. Wurzer. 
He was married in 1902 to Miss Catherine Vanderhoof, of South Bend, who survives. He also leaves two sons, Henry Wurzer, Jr., '25, and Lincoln Wurzer, a student at Notre Dame; two daughters, Beatrice and Bose­mary, at home; his father, Louis Wurzer, and two brothers, Louis C. and Edward Wurzer, all of Detroit. SDss Emma Vanderhoof and Stella Vanderhoof, of South Bend, are aunts of Mrs. Wurzer. 
Mr. Wurzer was an active alumnus of Notre Dame, holding the office of trustee in 1916 and 1917, vice-presi­dent of the Alumni Association in 1917 and 1918, president in 1922 and 1923, and was a member of the con­stitutional committee of the associa­tion in 1925 when a new constitution ' was drawn up and adopted. 
Funeral services were held at 10. o'clock Saturday morning from St. Peter's and Paul's Roman Catholic church in Detroit. Very Rev. James 
A. Bums and Rev. Matthew Walsh represented the University. 

Robert H. Borland/ Manager oF Dining Halls, Dies 
Alumni of recent years, particular­ly, and older alumni who have en­joyed the new University Dining Halls on various occasions, will learn with deep regret of the death of Robert H. Borland, manager of the Dining Halls since their completion. Mr. Borland died at South Bend on May 3 after an illness of four days from pneumonia. 
Apparently in the prime of life, he had brought to the Notre Dame Din­ing Halls the experience of twenty-five years in the hotel business, specializing in dining hall and cafe­teria service. From the construction period in March, 1927, when his expe­rience was enlisted to aid the efficient arrangement of the new building, he has been an invaluable asset to this vital phase of the Notre Dame campus system. 
It is a tribute to his personality as well as his ability that during the five years of his management the difficult work of feeding from 2,500 to 3,000 boys three times a day during the school year was carried on with very few minor ripples in efficiency and satisfaction. 
A veteran of work with the Hamil­ton and Union League Clubs in Chi­cago, and with several hotel projects in Florida, the task of adjusting him­self to the service of several thousand hungry boys was not a small one. The genius of his direction has been evi­dent in the small turnover of the per­sonnel of the Dining Halls and the precision of service, coupled with the continuity of quality in the food served. 

Besides running the various depart­ments of the Dining Halls through his organization, Mr. Borland did all the buying for the institution. Those who have seen statistics of food consumed realize the tremendous task this was. In addition, banquets — the Alumni Banquet and the St. Joe Valley foot­ball banquet for example,—and small­er dinners for hundreds of organiza­tions during the year, were a part of the work. And they were handled in a way that excited universal admira­tion. 
Mr. Borland and his wife had only recently moved into a new home near the University. They have no children. 
N. D. Men Promote Retreats 
Following up an article by a New York alunmus sent to Notre Dame Clubs for discussion Universal Notre Dame Night, word comes from the same area that Joseph Byrne, Jr., '15, headed the committee in charge of the observance of the fifth anniv­versary of the founding of the Loyola House of Retreats at Morristown, 

N. J. The New Jersey, and lately the New York Clubs have held re­treats at this site. Mr. Byrne was also elected a member of the exec­utive board. 
Edwards Heads C. of C. 
W. Howard Edwards, better known to a large public as "Cap," president of the Edwards Iron Works, South Bend, was named president of the South Bend Chamber of Commerce at a meeting of the Board of Directors April 25. 

"Cap" led the famous 1909 Notre Dame football team to its Western Championship and the victory over Michigan. He has been prominent in the business circles of the city, since graduation and the Edwards Iron Works is one of the industries which has enjoyed the expansion of the seven fat years without yet suc­cumbing to the financial famine. With "Cap's" personality to back this busi­ness wizardry, his election to the im­portant business post in the city is not surprising. 
Head Coach "Hunk" Anderson is an alumnus of the Iron Works and there ought to be hands-across-the-St. Joe River this year betiveen Notre Dame athletics and the neighboring community. 
193 2 COMMENCEMENT HAS MANY ATTRACTIONS 
(Continued from Page 177) 

tion that this year will mark the use for Commencement for the first time of Alumni Hall. Dillon Hall, adja­cent to it, will also be used. The "pre-war" Classes, before 1917, will be housed in Alumni Hall, while the "post-war" Classes will find lodging in Dillon. Registration for alumni who room on the campus will be in the Hall this year, while the Alumni Office will be used for general alumni registration of men who come only for the day, remain down town, etc., and for the Class of 1932. This will facilitate room assignment in the halls, and prevent the congestion of the main Office. It will also be eas­ier under this plan to locate class­mates. 
In spite of conditions, Notre Dame still offers to the alumni these rooms, the Annual Banquet, and the enter­tainment features of Commencement without cost. Nor does the Univer­sity wish an alumnus to stay away out of consideration for the saving to the University thus effected. Some­what reminiscent of the Prodigal Son, but to use the language of the agony columns, "Come back, son. No ques­tions asked." 
April-May, 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
•tlllDlllllllllllllllllltIt lllllllllltlltl Itlltlllllllltl Itlllll • IIKIII 1 lllllllllllllltllllllMtllMtlinilMIIIIIIIUIMItlMMtntUHHMMM 
?• -B 
ALUMNI  CLUBS  
Q. iiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiii  IIIDIIIIIIIIIII  iiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiuiiiiiiiuiiimu  
ARKANSAS  joyed a dinner and later we listened  Byron  V. Kanaley.  Your  Chicago  

To save the expenses of traveling to Little Rock, the Arkansas-Notre Dame Alumni Club observed Univer­sal Notre Dame Night by meeting in the section of the State closest to their home. William Hendricks at Fort Smith, Warren Baldwin at Little Rock, Rev. Joseph Fuhrman, O.S.B., at Subiaco, Albert Gloeckner, at WjTine, and Twomey Clifford at Cam­den, gathered their respective forces together for the evening. The Presi­dent, Rev. George F. X. Strassner, motored 78 miles to Camden, and what a table Twomey had arranged, and a round of enjoyment for the night. Matt Rothert was also there. As the by-gone years were re-lived, Mrs. Clifford, who happened to now and then listen in, had to remark it sounded like an Alumnae reunion. Some serious moments came up as we discussed Alumni Association and Club problems, and their relationship to the University. Perhaps something for the Arkansas Club ^vill result. This idea of sectional meetings must be credited to the closing words of Secretary Jim in his last letter before the great night, maybe there can be gathered together 200, 20, 2, or the "proverbial crowd." 
BOSTON 

The Notre Dame Club of Boston celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a stag at the Kenmore Hotel. During the evening the elec­tion of officers for the coming year was held. The results are as follows: Pres., Charles "Red" Crowley, '21; Vice-Pres., Mickey Qualters, '2S; Secretary-Treasurer, Jim Dooley, '21; Chaplain, Rev. Cornelius J. Donovan. 
According to Pat Cohen, retiring Secretary (and a good Secretary, Pat) the boys had a great time and many a famous N. D. "session" was rehashed. Joe Desmond, "Red" Crowley, Jim Dooley, Charlie Bain, Jack Barr and Bob Heam told many a story, while Jim Skahan, Mickey Qualters and Joe Gartland were content to eat and listen. 
The next get-together of the Club will be held some time in June. 
CALUMET DISTRICT Dear Jim: I wish to report that we had a very fine meeting Universal Notre Dame Night in Hammond. The Calumet-Notre Dame Club en­
to a truly wonderful talk by Profes­sor Charles Phillips. New officers of the club for the ensuing year were elected during the evening. The new president is Mr. William Voss of Har­vey, Illinois; vice-president, Pat Ma­loney of Crown Point; secretary, Wil­liam Dooley of Hammond; and treas­urer, Hugh Carrol of East Chicago. 
Besides Professor Phillips' address, talks were given by several of the other members of the Calumet-Notre Dame Club including Tim Galvin, Bill Travis, Jack Chevigny and Walter Stanton. 
Luther Swygert. 

CHICAGO Dear Jim: 
The celebration of Universal Night in Chicago was successful. As you know, our affair here was in the form of a dinner at the Blackstone Hotel. Mrs. Blackstone cooks up an e.\cellent steak dinner, and every one of the 150-odd present did justice to the fine cuisine. 
Father Charles Miltner, C.S.C. de­livered a very fine address in which he told us of the many'progressive changes that have taken place at the University in the past few years. He outlined the plans for the future in several of the departments and ex­plained the possibilities of a "gradu­ate school" at Notre Dame. 
The Right Reverend Bernard J. Shiel, auxiliary bishop of Chicago, was another of the honored guests. In a masterful talk, he showed us where the graduate of a great Cath­olic university might serve in fur­thering the cause of Catholic -Action. 
The inimitable Jim Crowley was the third of the featured speakers. For half an hour Jimmy enumerated reasons why he liked this great game of football. And if laughter aids the digestion (as they say it does), there was no man in that room who suf­fered a stomach ache that evening. 
Frank Hayes, -Mumni President, spoke of the work of the association, explained the new constitution, and urged the members to support the as­sociation by paying their dues. 
Tom Beacom acted as toastmaster and acquitted himself nobly. His in­troductions of the speakers were per­fect, and his "continuities" were things of beauty. 
Three trustees of the University were present and were introduced— John F. Gushing, Mr. C. Roy Mc-Canna of Burlington, Wisconsin, and correspondent, acting in the capacity of club president, made the necessary announcements about commencement, etc. 
John W. Scallan of the famous class of 1925 is the young man who deserves credit for the fine evening. Jack, you know, is an All-American chairman, and specializes in "Univer­sal Night" functions. He was capa­bly assisted by Norman Feltes, Clif­ford Noonan, William Connors, James 
R. Martin, Richard Nash, Edwin L. Ryan and Robert D. Stephan. 
That's about all there is to report. The above is a sketchy play-by-play report of the proceedings, 
James A. Ronan.. 
CAPITOL DISTRICT 

The purpose of this letter is to re­port the annual meeting of the Notre Dame Club of the Capitol District on Universal Notre Dame Night—^April 18, 1932. 
-A.n excellent dinner had been ar­ranged at Keelers Restaurant at Al­
. bany, N. Y. by our old stand-by, Tom Dollard. Fifteen men were present and, strange to say, on time. 
Upon our arrival the Schenectady Contingent were very pleasantly sur­prised to find Frank Disney present. 
Quoting Johnnie Meighan, Frank was father, mother and nurse maid to the Club, and his temporarily or­phaned child was certainly glad to welcome it wandering founder. Frank is e.xpected to be with us for some time now, and we look forward to availing ourselves of his store of good judgment in directing the af­fairs of the Club. 
.\s previously stated the dinner was excellent, and progressed with the usual banter and exchange of remi­niscences. We missed some of our members, who for various reasons have passed on or have been trans­ferred to other cities. We very deep­ly felt the absence of our late be­loved resident, Mr.-John W. Forbing; whose jovial yet forceful character left impressions never to be forgot­ten. 
We also miss other of our mem­bers, who have been active in the promotional work of the club. The writer particularly laments the ab­sence of Joe Horan's elbows in his ribs at affairs of this nature. Tlie Horans, by the way, have returned to the Hoosier State and are now in Fort Wayne. 
The business session followed, and 
184 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNTJS April-HIaij, 193 
the following officers were elected for the coining year: 
President, John J. Meighan; Vice-President J. V. Smith; Secretary and Treasurer, F. L. Duquette; Board of Governors: J. J. Huether, Chairman; 
T. DoUard, A. Roach, P. McNamee, 
D. O'Brien. 

The Club decided that there should be a Mass during the ensuing year for the late John W. Forbing. Ar­rangements for the Mass will be made later, and our representative on the Campus will be notified in due time. 
It was also decided that the Notre Dame Trophy In Memory of Knute Rockne will be again offered to Pa­rochial Schools of the Albany Dio­cese. It is believed that this Trophy has already played some part in for­warding football competitive rela­tions among these schools. 
A rising vote of thanks was given Joseph Carey for his outstanding work on the Rockne Memorial Fund. 
Before leaving it was decided that we enjoyed each other's company to the extent that we will try to get along together for an afternoon this summer. 
A wow of a time was had by all. 
F. L. Duquette. 
CLE\^LAND Dear Jim: It is difficult to write without first complimenting the nominating com­mitees upon their excellent selections of officers for the National Associa­tion. Naturally, we are particularly impressed with the selection of Mr. Harry (Red) Miller. While Harry will probably abuse me for saying so, we here who have the privilege of his close association week after week and year after year, cannot help but feel that there is no finer example of the true Notre Dame man any­where on earth. Could anv more be said? The Annual Easter Ball, which was held Monday, March 2Sth, at the Uni­versity Club, was the most success­ful dance the Club has ever held. In addition to everyone having a good time, our Treasurer, Matt Trudelle, was also made happy. Contributing largely to the success of the party 
•were
 the follow^ing special patrons: Hon. and Mrs. Ray T. Miller, Mr. and Mrs. William Connors, Mr. Leemar Cooney, Mr. and Mrs. Martin Cooney, Mr. and Mrs. Will J. Coughlin, Mr. and Mrs. Frank X. Cull, Mr. and Mrs. William J. Donlan, Dr. F. G. Fallon, Mr. and Mrs. William G. Gibbons, Dr. and Mrs. John E. Hannibal, Mr. and Mrs. Pred A. Joyce, Mr. and Mrs. Edward Kielly, Mr. and Mrs. M. Harry Miller, Mr. and Mrs. Charles 

A.
 Mooney, Jr., Rev Fr. M. L. Mori­arity, Mr. and Mrs. John P. Murphy, 


Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. Nunn, Mr. 
and Mrs. William J. Raddatz, Mr. 
and Mrs. A. E. R. Schneider, Mr. J. 
Clarence Schurger, Rev. Dr. W. A. 
Scullen and Hon. and Mrs. Joseph F. 
Smith. The following is the commit­
tee whom we have to thank for the 
enjoyable evening: Frank Andrews, 
Jr., Edward Blatt, Paul Brady, F. 
Joseph Butler, James Callahan, J. 
Patrick Canny, John Gallagher, 
William Gibbons, Gaylord Haas, Fred 
Joyce, Eugene Miliff, Donald Miller, 
Charles Mooney, Jr., Ray O'Malley, 
Jerry Reidy, Martin Rini, Al Shipi­
casse, Albert Sommer, Jack Sonn­
halter, Joseph Toolen, and Cletus 
Schneider. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was 
celebrated a little differently than 
usual. Through the special efforts of 
Tom Byrne, and through the courtesy 
of Rev. Dr. Wm. A. Scullen, who re­
ceived his honorary LL.D. degree in 
'27, the show was put on at Holy 
Name Gymnasium. The proceeds 
(and there were some proceeds) will 
be sent to the Rockne Memorial Fund. 
The program was furnished by "Doc" 
Elliott of R. K. 0., which included the 
movie "The Spirit of Notre Dame," 
the 1931 Notre Dame-Southern Cali­
fornia game and short newsreel of 
"Rock." The speakers included Father 
Scullen, M. Harry Miller and John 
Butler, President. Pat Canny and AI 
Foos assisted Tom Byrne in making 
the evening a complete success. The 
affair was open to the public who 
were given a taste of the glorj' that 
is Notre Dame's. 
We understood that "Spike" Mc­Adams was to be married this month, but haven't received any further de­tails. 
Dan Duffy has been appointed Rec­reation Commissioner of the City of Cleveland in Mayor Miller's new cab­inet. Joe Gavin takes Dan Duffy's place as coach at Holy Name High School. 
John P. Butler and John W. Gleas­on, Jr., have been appointed Assist­ant City Law Directors. 
Jerry Miller has been made Assist­ant County Prosecutor. 
"Clayt" LeRoux has moved his law offices to 840 Leader Building. 
Fred Joyce, who was manager of the Lake Shore Hotel, has been made Vice President and General Manager of the Lake Shore Hotels Company. 
Our luncheon Monday, April 25th, was honored by the presence of Ath­letic Director, Jesse Harper; Business Manager, Art Haley and Herbert Jones. Their visit occasioned an over­flow crowd which included a number of faces we haven't seen regularly whom we hope, to see more often. 
Sincerely, George G. Kerver. 
DAYTON Dear Jim: Thought I would drop you a line to let you know that the Dayton Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night in the usual manner with a dinner and election of officers. Our election of officers for the vear 1932-1933 resulted as follows: Robert Ohmer, President; Andrew Aman, Jr., Secretary; and Amos Clay, Treasurer. Andrew Aman, Jr. 
DETROIT 
My dear Jim: Well, we had a Universal Notre Dame Night party that was a WOW, and everybody that came had a good lively time of it even though the club did have a deficit to put into the treasury after it was all over. It seems that everybody in the crowd that's working at all is work­ing night and day and those that aren't working of course, haven't any dough to blow in on parties. So our crowd of fifty couples was about as much as could be expected under the circumstances. We even divided the list up into sections and called every fellow in the outfit on the phone about it. You can take my word for it that it requires one helluva lot of promotin' to drag a crowd together no matter how. low a price you set. Enough of the worries of the com­mittee—I believe I remember reading somewhere in your letters that you have a depression down there too." It won't be long now before Detroit workmen will have the rest of the country riding around in brand new V8s and Free wheelers and Floating Power buggies; and then we'll have parties and the high tariffs will be like spending nickles for street comer apples. Everybody's broke now, so we can start everything all over again and have all the fun over again. We didn't have any serious pro­gram or listen to or make any speeches. President John E. Moore said "Let's ^et as many of the boys together as possible for a little eve­ning of fun and goodfellowship, and we'll talk about the serious side of the Club's work after we all get a little better acquainted." And that's just what we did. And so Jim, your faithful scribe has reported and bids you adieu, with best personal regards, Paul Doolev. 
DENVER 
Dear Jim: First off, thanks for your answer to our first letter. It helps to get up steam, believe it or not. Now to the business of all this. Of course 

Apnt-May, 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
XJ. N. D. night is first. Arrange­ments were made for a dinner at the Cosmopolitan hotel and then the fel­low were informed about place, time, and tax. First I thought we were out of luck but when the evening came I saw an N. D. celebration still held some sway. The dinner was set for S:30 P. M. and by 8:25 there were twenty fellows pounding on the door for food. . So all in all I felt it was quite a successful event for the first time in so long. The fellows were welcomed by Bob Dick and then of course speeches were made by those who had something to say. We talked of how we could build a bigger and better club and finally wound up by appointing a committee to search out every fellow in our district and get in touch with them and see if we can't interest them in our club. 1 believe then this plan should bring results, and I also hope that it will turn out so that we will have a much larger crowd next time we get to­gether. We also decided to have a weekly luncheon in order to hold this bunch we already have together. Yes­terday was our first of these and lo and behold! we had ten fellows show up. Those on" the committee felt much elated over this turn out and feel that the fellows really want the club to function in the right way so we are going to try every way pos­sible to make it interesting for them. In regards to the broadcast I spoke of before through some mixup in the radio station we were first informed that we could not have the time we were promised and so we called it off, then they phoned us again that we could have the time and so we were caught napping. 
Harry Lawrence. 

FORT WAYNE Dear Jim: I take this means to report to you concerning the fine meeting we had last night, April 18th on the occasion of Universal Notre Dame Night. The Fort Wayne Alumni Organization met in the recreation rooms of the Gilmartin Lumber Company. The meeting was called to order by Presi­dent Frank Gilmartin who called our attention to the necessity of the members of the Alumni taking care of their obligation by way of paying their dues in the Alumni Association, and I feel sure that you may expect some dues from the Fort Wayne boys shortly, although we are in the same position financially as others through­out the country. President Gilmartin also appointed a committee consisting of Cliff Ward, Bob Sosenheimer and myself, to serve as a Student Con­tact Committee to cooperate with you in seeing that promising young men from this vicinity are advised as to 
the merits of our Alma Mater, Notre Dame. Henry Hasley who is Grand Ivnight of the local council of the Knights of Columbus gave an inter-e.sting and inspiring talk to the boys with regard to the coming Laymen's Retreat to be held at the University this August. 
Attention of those present was called to the fact that Dick Dinnen is a candidate for County Surveyor, and Fred Eggeman a candidate for County Treasurer in the coming pri­mary to be held on May 3rd. "This meeting was attended by a group of thirty, and the crowd there enjoyed themselves playing poker and bridge with the aid of the Dutch lunch after the business meeting and until the wee hours of this morning. Tlie group consisted of not only the younger members of the Alumni As­sociation but such older men as Ed Gilmartin, Oscar Fox and Steve Fleming. Gerald Morsches brought with him Jerry LaPine of the class of '23 who hails from Rochester, New York. 
This is sort of a haphazard report, but we wanted you to know that the Notre Dame men here are united. 
Robert Eggeman, Sec'y. 
GREEN BAY 

Dear Jim: At our regular meeting April ISth, the members voted to change the name of the organization from the Notre Dame Club of the Fox River Valley to "The Green Bay-Notre Dame Club." The newly elected offi­cers are: President, Harold L. Londo, '21, City Engineers Office, City Hall; Vice-President, John V. Diener, '09, Mayor, City Hall; Secretary and Treasurer. Levi A. Geniesse, '24, 510 Minahan Bldg. Bob Lynch gave a stirring "Pep" talk on the Rockne Memorial Drive, asking the members to come through with a couple of financial touchdowns for Rockne's dream. It was decided to meet at least once a month in the future and the members wish it understood that N. 
D. Visitors and alumni from the valley will always be welcome at our meetings. Meeting dates will be ob­tained from the Secretary. 
Sincerely yours, 
Levi A. Geniesse. 

HIAWATHALAND Dear Jim: In order that the names of the new 
• Hiawathaland Club officials will not be overlooked, here they are: 
Atty. T. J. Dundon, Ishpeming, honorary president; Norman Barthol­omew, Iron Mountain, president; 
Michael O'Hara, Menominee, vice-
president; Michael Corry, Marinette, 
secretary; and J. K. Stack, Escanaba, 
treasurer. 
John Lemmer, '18. 

ICANSAS CITY Dear Jim: Had an excellent meeting on Mon­day the 18th, with about forty mem­bers in attendance. A banquet was served at 7 o'clock, and the business meeting was held immediately after. Principal business was election of officers. We had served for nearly eight years in office, and we insisted that there be a change in the club executives. 
The following were elected: Conrad Mann, Honorary President; President, Dan Foley; Vice-President, George Reinhardt; Secretary, John Dugan; Treasurer, Henry Massman. 
The former officers will serve as board to assist the new officers, until they are familiar with their duties. 
Doctor Nigro discussed briefly the need of further assistance in getting funds for the Rockne Memorial. Also the Living Endowment program. 
We broadcast a short program over WLBF.- Notre Dame songs by the quartet, Eddie McGrath, Larry MuUins, Joe Stewart and Maurice Himself. Also I was called on to de­liver a short talk on Universal Notre Dame Night. 
The rest of the evening was taken up by outside entertainers giving a vaudeville performance. 
Arrangements are to be made to have monthly luncheons and to strive for closer unity in the club. We have over one hundred and fifty members in Kansas City and vicinity, and we are trying to make every member active. 
Maurice Carroll. 
MONTANA 

The Notre Dame Club of Montana celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner at Mt. Saint Charles in Helena, following which several of the members entertained with stirring stories of the "good old days" at Notre Dame. 
The Rockne Memorial proposition was discussed and definite plans were made for Montana's contribution to the Fund. Vice-Presidents from the various larger towns in the Club ter­ritory were elected to take complete charge of the drive in their respective towns. The Memorial project is be­ing handled by T. H. Oaas, ex. '12, who is general chairman of the Drive in the Montana district. 
MILWAUKEE especially how the older fellows' eyes it did not receive nearly as much as 
Dear Jim: April 18th did not go by without Milwaukee knowing that it was the day set apart for the uniting of Notre Dame men. Thirty members of the local group and several guests convened at the Hotel Schroeder to revive treasured memories of their days at the grand old school. After having properly attended to an excellent dinner the officers for the past year gave their impressions of the work carried on by the group during their term of office. "Over­head" Bill Redden was unanimously acknowledged as the most valuable member. No one has assumed the responsibilities and work necessary to the carrying on of the organization as well as Bill, and to him is due more than a small share of the credit for the Club's accomplishments dur­ing the past two years. The dapper Dud Pearson who, we are told, has been selling short, was called upon for the treasurer's report. Like most financial reports this year Dud was forced to admit that no div­idends or refunds could be paid, but due to his Hamiltonian genius the exchequer was so proficiently guided that no assessments were necessary and a humble but ample balance was shown at the end of his term. Frank Holdampf, retiring secretary, ren­dered a bit of eloquence in praise of Bill Redden and his able assistant, Paul Brust. The election of officers resulted as follows: Bill Redden, President; John Madden and Ed Yockey, Vice-Presi­dents; Dud Pearson, Treasurer; and -4ng Galdabini, Secretary. Rev. G. 
E. Gormle y was enthusiastically voted Chaplain, and Freeman Fitz­gerald is the new Honorary Presi­dent. 
Tom Kelly, toastmaster par excel­lence, characteristically carried the entertaining portion of the meeting with his unique, genuine wit. Under his guidance all ranks of oratory and eloquence were brought forth climax­ing a perfect evening and leaving everyone thankful for the 1932 uni­versal Notre Dame night. 
Sincerely, -Ajig Galdabini. 
NEW JERSEY Dear Jim: Here's hoping I make the deadline. The New Jersey Alumni Associa­tion observed Universal Notre Dame Night with a "Reminiscing night" or in plainer words a "bull session." Meaning that each and every Notre Dame man present was called upon to relate amusing incidents during the times he was in school. You'd be surprised how all the fellows entered into the spirit of the occasion and 
twinkled and their heads nodded rec­
ognition of incidents, especially while 
Jerry Hayes of the class of '26 did 
his stuff. 
Joe Nulty came in for a good-
natured verbal beating from Jake 
Purcell, Dick Purcell and Eddie Dug­
gan but he took it and came back 
•\vith equal ones. 
Eddie Duggan %vas chairman and it went off nicely. A friend of Nulty's, a Dan Mangin from Plainfield,. was the principal speaker. 
Several outsiders were there. They come often to our open meetings to marvel that so large a gang can stick together. Local college clubs with plenty more members cannot get the turnouts we do. 
Another thing. We missed having a Memorial Mass for Eockne on the anniversary of his accident, but we are going to have one yet, and in fu­ture years we will have it on the Sun­day preceding or following the anni­versary date. 
I am enclosing a clipping showing what New Jersey is doing in the lay­men's retreat movement. Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., promoter of all our five annual retreats, you will notice, is general chairman of the state-wide banquet. Incidentally it was_ the largest banquet ever held in Newark. Plans were made for 400, and 700 at­tended. Dan O'Neill was on the com­mittee as was Stanley Burke, brother of Eddie Burke of '27, of East Orange. 
It might be interesting, too, to note that the Loyola House of Re­treats in Morristown has been in ex­istence for only five year and that the Notre Dame Club of New Jersey was the first organization to sign up for a retreat. The struggle by Father Storck to get going was hard but not so long considering everything, and the club feels proud of Joe Byrne and his doings in helping it along not only through our Club but in every way. 
S'nuff for the present, Bill Carter. 
NEW YORK As for Universal Notre Dame Night—John Kenney acted as Toast­master and the only speakers that we had were Father O'Donnell and Eddie Dowling. Nicholas Farley sang a few songs and that completed our entertainment. Father O'Donnell's talk was very interesting. He traced the history of Notre Dame from the time of Father Sorin and pointed out that the school has always had a lot more than a good football team. Eddie Dowling did not aree' with* Father O'Donnell that Notre Dame sometimes received too much public­ity for footblal. Eddie thought that 
it should. 
The program was made short and 
the usual long list of speakers ex­
cluded in accordance with Father 
O'Donnell's request. 
J. Norbert Gelson, Jr. 
PORTLAND Dear Jim: The Notre Dame Club of Oregon held its annual meeting in the Uni­versity Club here on last Mondaj', Universal Notre Dame Night. There were about twenty in attendance. Gen. J. P. O'Neil, of the class of 1883, was elected President; I was again elected Secretary; and Mr. Ronald Sullivan, of the class of 1930, was elected Treasurer. Father Kelly from Columbia Uni­versity read Father Charles O'Don­nell's answer to Mr. Boyd-Carpenter's article entitled, "How a Briton Looks at American Education." His point of view was well taken. Father Carey of Columbia Univer­sity read a letter referring to the Alumni retreat. I believe some ac­tion will be taken on'this in the near future. The meeting adjourned into a gen­eral discussion and broke up about 
10:30 P. M. Barney Macnab. 
UTAH Dear Jim: Just a line to let you know that the Club met on Universal Notre Dame Night and we really had a very fine meeting this year. About twelve fellows were present and I have never seen such a peppy, enthusiastic bunch. The meeting was held at the Uni­versity Club and the fellows were bouncing all over the place having a real good time. At the business meeting the Club voted to appropri­ate 525.00 to help the Rockne Memo­rial, which amount will be collected and sent in the very near future. The fellows also have agreed to try and raise this amount by personally get­ting subscriptions from Notre Dame friends in this community who did not attend the University but who are admirers of Rockne. The matter of dues was also taken up and I feel sure the fellows will be more prompt and punctual in for­warding to you their annual dues, although might I say at this juncture with all the mines closed down and things generally on the bum, business is practically fallen off in this part of the countiY. I hate to give you the bad news, nevertheless, I must break down and confess that for the sixth time I was reelected to the exalted (?) office of 

April-May, 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
president of this organization. I suppose you will be thinking I have a great political machine in this neck of the woods, but honestly, I have tried to unload this job on someone else for the past three or four years, but these birds are too wise. I have tried to buy votes for some other fel­low but no one will look at my money, hard up as they are. Cy Harbeke was elected Secretary in place of H. E. Weiss, and the Rev­erend Patrick Maguire was reelected chaplain. The following men were named to the Board of Governors: Judge Roger I McDonough, Major Francis J. Tomey, Samuel Powell, Otto Enking (one of our honorary members) and Henry E. Weiss, who was just released as Secretary. 
Excellent talks were made at the business meeting by Walter Beesley and Judge McDonough. It looks as if we are going to carry on for an­other year out in the Mormon State. 
We concluded the meeting with a real Dutch lunch and music and en­tertainment, and I really feel safe in saying that of all the meetings we have had since the Club was organ­ized, I am sure this was the peppiest and liveliest one yet which I am sure speaks well for our organization. 
I hope everything is going well back at school. Let me hear from you often. 
Raymond R. Brady. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 

Fifty-five members of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley gathered in the lay faculty room of the University Dining Halls for the home observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. It is regrettable that the local program could not have been broadcasted to Clubs every­where. 
Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C, '03, former president of the University, delivered an address that was most inspiring. He described the two evils that in his experience had destroyed that spirit and unity which makes the successful Notre Dame Club. One is a program below those standards which the nature of a Notre Dame Club demands. The other is self-advancement, especially political, of an individual at the expense of the organizatTon. Father Walsh's 35 years at Notre Dame as student, alumnus, priest, teacher, and execu­tive have given him a rare perspec­tive on the University and the prob­lems of the alumni. These were con­densed into expression in his talk. The ALUMNUS regrets very much that Father Walsh's message cannot reach the entire membership through these pages. 
Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C, '04, was toastmaster, and Floyd Gibbons has 
nothing on Father Burke for power­
ful patter. The flow of humorous 
reminiscence kept the representative 
assembly in continuous laupfhter, as 
episodes of various years were de­
scribed. 
Edward J. Meehan, '20, former 
track star and. captain, officially as­
sumed the presidency of the Club, 
succeeding Bernard J. Voll, '17. Pres­
ident Meehan made a splendid inaug­
ural address which was supported by 
concrete plans for the coming year's 
achievement. These took the form of 
a report by A. Harold Weber, '23, 
chairman of the committee on montii­
ly meetings. Mr. Weber reported 
that the meetings during the year 
would be marked by the presentation 
and discussion of a paper on some 
timely topic, utilizing both faculty 
and downtown members of the Club. 
Prof. William Farrell will open the 
series on May 10, with a paper "Fas­
cism and World Peace," which has 
already met with great enthusiasm at 
a presentation in the East. Another 
committee headed by Bernard J. Voll, 
retiring president, will take up ac­
tively the urgent problem of emploj'­
ment in the St. Joseph Valley for 
members of the Club. 
The Club was most fortunate in 
its nearness to the campus by secur­
ing the very excellent Glee Club 
under the able direction of Joseph 
Casasanta, '23. The Club this year 
has some of the best numbers and 
best voices in its distinguished his­
tory, and the five numbers presented 
at the Universal Night dinner were 
heartily received. 
Paul Host, captain of the 1932 foot­ball team, was a guest and spoke briefly in appreciation of the efforts exerted by the Club in the support of the'Notre Dame team, particularly through the medium of the annual civic testimonial banquet sponsored by the Club each Fall. Director of Athletics Jesse Harper' was also a guest and expressed a few sentiments .regarding the pleasant relations that have existed between Notre Dame athletics and Notre Dame alumni and outlined a few of the policies, in­cluding price reduction for the games 
this fall in the Stadium. 
The University Dining Halls served 
a delicious chicken dinner to the stu­
dents on Universal Night, which the 
Club shared. 
TOLEDO 

The Toledo boys assembled on Sun­
day morning in a body at the new 
cathedral. Our Lady Queen of the 
Holy Rosary, April 4th, for the anni­
versary mass in honor of Knute 
Rockne. The mass was read by Fr. 
George Strassner, a classmate of 
Rockne. Fr. Strassner graduated 
from Notre Dame in 1914 and his 
home is in Hope, Arkansas. He gave a very beautiful sermon daring the services on Knute Kockne; it was worth going miles to hear. 
After the services the members en­tertained Father Strassner at break­fast in our fine Knights of Columbus building. At this gathering we de­cided to hold a supper dance at the new Secor Hotel Night Club, April 18, and, although I was unable to attend, I understand that a very wonderful time was had by all. A very large crowd attended, so my informant re­ports. 
Ben Kesting, '25, is now very active in his own behalf as a Democratic candidate for county surveyor. John Carey, '26, is also a candidate for a seat in the State.House of Represen­tatives. 
Our club will have election of offi­cers at our meeting the first week of May in the Knights of Columbus building. The candidates have already been nominated, according to our con­stitution, and an interesting meeting should be held. 
RAY TILLMAN. 
WATERBURY 

Dear Jim: On April 18, the Notre Dame men in this vicinity met in Waterbury at a dinner and organized the first Notre Dame Alumni Club of Water­bury. Mr. George Gaffney of the Class of 1900 was elected president James Monaghan of the Class of 1927 was elected secretary and treasurer. I was elected vice-president. Our ne.\t meeting will be held on May 16th. I would like to have you send me some suggestions for the formation of the by-laws of the club. At the next meeting we are going to, draw up the by-laws. I thought that you might have some set form that vou give to the various Notre Dame Clubs. Including the undergraduates at Notre Dame now that are from Waterbury we will have about twenty in our club. Mr. Ted Rourke, a for­mer instructor at N. D., is teaching in Waterbury, and we have made him an honorary member. I have been quite busy lately and I have been unable to get in touch with those boys that your office asked me to see. I expect to see them within the next two weeks and will write you about them. If this letter is incoherent, it is be­cause I am in one h of a hurry. I wanted to write this letter long ago but I didn't have the time. I saw Bucky O'Connor and Adam Walsh in New Haven today, also the famous Peter Coyle. Will be expecting to hear from you in the near future. Sincerely, John F. Robinson. 
(SJiMiiiiiii  itiiiiiiiiiiaiit  iiililliiiiiii(iiiii<ittif(ittiMttri>(tMrM(i»ttt(iftifMttiiHMMMi)i»MiiMi)»»«>HiiiiHaili«ii*iiiMiiiiii(iiiti)itti|iiiiiiii)iiiiiiiii*iiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiQ  
^H E  ALUMNI=  I  
E)..  ••••  1  ""H  

1880 

'80—The ALUMNUS regrets very much to learn of the death of GEORGE J. COOICE. The announce­ment was contained in a recent issue of Father O'Hara's Religious Bulletin. 
1887 

'87—HUGO ROTHERT has heen 
very ill for the past two years. He 
has been confined to his bed and his 
condition has made it impossible for 
him to write letters in answer to the 
many he has received from friends. 
Mrs. Eothert expresses his pleasure 
and wishes to thank those who have 
remembered him. For the conveni­
ence of classmates and friends, Mv. 
Rothert can be addressed at 600 W. 
Washington St., Camden, Ark. He is 
living with his son. Matt, '24, who, in­
cidentally, is manager of the Camden 
Furniture company. We trust that 
Mr. Rothert will enjoy better health 
soon. 

'87—A recent letter from Warren Cartier from Fort Myers, Florida, reads: "Have been here just three months yesterday and figure in re­maining to our usual time for re­turning, about the first week in May. May drive through this Spring. This 
•will
give me time to clean up matters at home so as to get to the Trustee meeting and Commencement." 

•87—WILLIAM
 K. O'CONNELL, recently sent a letter to the Class Secretary with some interesting- ma­terial therein. He says: "Indeed, it is startling to recall that so many years have passed since we sat to­gether in class and, later in the eve­ning, exchanged visits on the second floor where the then rare privilege -if private rooms was given to members of the Senior Class and, not infre­quently, to be warned 'lights out'. "Time has made many changes and I believe no one of our day, except perhaps the venerable Col. Hoynes, remains at the University. Our own Class members have scattered and I confess to recalling the names only of those having rooms while corre­spondence became one of the 'lost arts'. I -wrote to mv old roommate, CHARLES P. NEILL, but got no re­sponse. Occasionally HUGO ROTH­ERT vrould visit me. If I am not mistaken I have been back to Notre Dame just twice during the scholas­tic season—^not a very good record. No one seems to have knowledge of JOHN C. WAGONER, .. . I am in good health and hope you continae 


to enjoy health, happiness and all comforts." 
1890 '90—The Class Secretary, LOUIS 
P. CHUTE,.contributes this bit from the pen of irheto Dayness: 
"Does the 'hunter go around the squirrel on the tree ' That depends upon whether one is speaking col­loquially or academically. In the first place the answer would seem to be 'Yes' but in the second, would say that we simply don't 'no'." 
1891 

'91—^.A. twenty-four hour toast to the fading 50's in which aid came from friends and prominent figures throughout the country, and was be­ing offered Friday, February 26, by GENE MELADY, livestock commis­sion man and sportsman. He was sixty years old._ 
"Congratulations poured in, many in green envelopes. Four came from members of the N. D. first football team of which he was a member. Others from Ruth St. Denis and Ted Shawn, dancers; Patrick Joyce, pres­ident of the Chicago & Great Western railroad; William Tilden, tennis star; Fiske O'Hara, singer; Mike and Tom Gibbons, St. Paul; James Corbett of prize fight fame; and Jack Curley, wrestling promoter. 
"Begun with phone calls that roused Melady from bed early in the morning, the birthday celebration continued into the night with a party at the Wonder Bar, a series of pro­gressive gatherings .at the homes of friends and ended at two a. m. at Belle Machree, the country home of the Meladys. 
Melady once was manager for Earl Caddock, former world champion w^restler. 
1892 
'92—A. R. CL.A.RIvE who was in the minim department in 1892, re­turned to Notre Dame February 26. Despite the fact that Mr. Clarke has been located in Chicago at 30 N. La-Salle St., this was his first visit to the campus. 
1894 
'9-1—We have recently learned of the sudden death of THOMAS F. GUTHRIE. Mr. Guthrie died the early part of March in Missouri and was buried in Iowa. Mr. Guthrie was President of the Notre Dame Club of the TVin Cities and had, on his visits to Notre Dame, been an interesting visitor to the Alumni Office. We re­gret that we received no announce­ment of his death, and it was only from a piece of mail returned from the Postal authorities that we learned of his demise. 

'94—FRANK J. BUTLER adds a choice bit to the Class columns which we are reprinting with the idea that it will be read with interest by those who knew the same Notre Dame of which Mr. Butler speaks, and also those Notre Dame men who are fa­miliar with Lyons, Howard, Morris­sey, and now Alumni and Dillon. 
"I entered old St. Joseph's Hall in June, 1886 as a working student when that Department was known as the Manual Training School and was pre­sided over by Brother Francis de Sales with Brother Luke as Prefect of Discipline. 
"The old wooden building contained the Tailor Shop, Shoe Maker's Shop, a Refectory and a Third Floor Dor­mitory where the boys who were learning different trades, were housed and fed. This was also headquarters for the students who waited on table 
.in the Senior, Junior and Minim De­partments of the University. 
"Some of those who were housed there and who are still at Notre Dame are: Father Bums, Dr. Frank Powers and there may be others who are still on the job but I cannot re­call their names at this moment. Some of the boys were Alex Gi'osbeck w-ho later became Governor of Mich­igan; Vincent Robbins, John Webber, Patsy O'Houlihan, John Finerty and others whose names I cannot recall. I think there were in all about thirty boys in that department. 
"I was in the same Class with Frank Powers and had I continued there, would probably have graduated in his Class. . . . 
"Mrs. Butler and I are planning to attend our daughter's graduation at St. Mary's next June and we will probably have the pleasure of seeing you at that time." 
'94—Did you know that GR.A.N­VILLE TINNIN has been engaged in the live stock business with the Red Cloud Cattle Company, Jay Em, Wy­oming, for the past twenty-seven years? And that his brother, BU­FORD, a student at Notre Dame in '95 is in the ranching business at Rushville. Neb? 

April-May, 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
1896 '96—H. KING, a minim at Noti-e Dame from 1892-6 returned to the campus March 29, for his first visit since he was in school. He served as an acolyte at Father Serin's funeral and gave the Secretary some inter­esting sidelights of the Notre Dame of Father Sorin's time. 
1897 

'97—Rev. JOHN A. MACNAMARA is still enjoying the pleasant environ­ment of Mt. Clemens. He ^vrites that everything is peaceful there and they have been enjoying fine weather. 
'97_F. W. SCHULTE of Yorba Linda, Calif., sent in the following interesting information concerning himself when he was in school and a brief sketch of his activities since that time. 
"Was in the Commercial Depart­ment of Notre Dame in 1894-5. One of the winning crew in the Golden Jubile e celebration, (June 11-13, 1895,) race. Again at N. D. in 1896­
7. In the winning crew again in 1897 and played football as a sub after the boating season closed. FRANK 
E. HERING was coach then. 
"Started in business (Retail Imple­ments) of my own in 1899 at Mitchell, Iowa. -After thirteen years at this sold out and moved to a Mountain ranch in San Diego County, Calif,, on account of ill health. 
"After six years on ranch, health regained, moved to South Pasadena, Calif., and entered the contracting and building game. For the past four years have retired to a citrus ranch of oranges, lemons and avo­cados here at Yorba Linda, near FuUerton. 
"Family consists of wife and three fine big boys, two graduated from FuUerton High School last year. They are going to Junior College with hopes of getting to Notre Dame some day. We are all great Notre Dame enthusiasts, and the spirit of Notre Dame is virtually grown into my sons." 
1898 

'98—^The Lanes of Cascade, Iowa, are a Notre Dame family. T. J. LANE was a student in '94-5. His sons, James, Robert and Loras are all Notre Dame men. James attended the University in '23-25; Robert re­ceived his degree in '29; and Loras will receive his degree in June. John 
J. now at home, is a future Notre Dame prospect. One daughter, Mar­jory, is in her Sophomore year at St. Marv's. 
1909 '09—W. H. ("Cap") EDWARDS, president of the Edwards Iron Worlcs, 
South Bend, was named president of the South Bend Chamber of Com­merce April 25 at a meeting of the board of directors. 
1911 

'11—The career of P.A.UL NEI^ SON, student at Notre Dame in '07­8, since he left Notre Dame, has been a colorful and interesting one. 
From Notre Dame, Mr. Nelson went to Nemnan from which he wa.s graduated in 1913, and then went to Princeton—graduating in 1917. He was President of his Class and of the Triangle Club and joined the -Avi­ation Crops of the Army at the time of his graduation. He was sent across with the Honor men from the differ­ent colleges and was instructor in Claremont Farrend in France in bombing maneuvers. From there he went to the front in the Eleventh -Air Squadron and was pilot of that bomb­ing group. He was over the German line twenty-nine times, for which he received citation for four German ships which they brought down. 
-After returning to the United States, Mr. Nelson decided to study -Architecture and went to Paris where he married a French girl, Francine Le Coeur, whose father was a builder in Paris and whose grandfather was a very representative architect. He became a student at the Beaux Art School and took first prize when he graduated from there. Two years ago he came over to this country and designed the settings for Gloria Swanson's picture "What a Widow," in the Modem. He was a Modernist in architecture during the time he was a student at the Beaux Art. -After completion of the picture, he returned to Paris, where he has been living for the last ten years. 
He recently received the commis­sion to draw the plans for a new charity medical center at Lille, France, which is to be the largest in the world. The building will be the first real skyscraper in France. 
Mr. Nelson, who was chosen be­cause he is a s pecialist in hospital architecture, forsees that the Lille center will combine many of the fea­tures of the Columbia medical center in New York. It will have a capacity of 3,000 beds and will include a large clinic, a school for nurses, a school for physicians and surgeons, an old people's home and a home for incur­ables. The hospital grounds cover seventy-seven acres. 
It is a great honor for Mr. Nelson to be chosen to partake in this splen­did piece of work, but it is also a singular honor for the United States that France has selected an -American for a commission of this kind. 
Paul Nelson is the son of N. J. NELSON, a student at Notre Dame in 1881. Mr. Nelson is president of the W. P. Nelson Company, Interior Designers and Decorators in Chica­go. WILLIAM T., '10, brother of N. 
J. Nelson, is Vice-President of the Company. Three other brothers, THOMAS E., JOHN L., and PETER D., were also students of Notre Dame, the latter having died while here. 
1913 

'13—H.ARRY J. KIKK, Washing­ton, D. C, was recently made Presi­dent of St. Francis de Sales Parish Conference of the St. Vincent de Paul Society newly organized. 
1915 

'15—In a review of GEORGE N. SHUSTER'S new book, "The Ger­mans, an Inquiry and an Estimate," John Erskine calls it "an informing study of the background of Germany today, of its cultural and political organization, of the forces which di­vide it, and of the other forces which are molding it into a new nation. We can read this book with profit. . . ." 
1916 

'16—Following is a little tribute to Rockne sent by Father FRANCISCO MARIN who received an LL.D. de­gree in 1916. Father Marin says: "I feel deep down in my Soul, as do all the friends of Notre Dame, the unexpected and tragic death of the unforgettable Mr. Rockne, who may God have in Glory! I note with satisfaction the tribute literally the world-wide of general sympathy which Notre Dame is receiving, and I observe with pleasure, too, the glorious and well-merited plan of erecting to Rockne at Notre Dame a worthy memorial to immortalize his memory. Great was the loss suffered by Notre Dame, but Divine Provi­dence took care that Rockne's glori­ous career came to an end when he was still in the zenith of his glory— which is the best way to glorify his true genius." 
The above was translated from his brilliant Castilian. 
Father Marin, one of the most dis­tinguished Spanish theologians of the day, takes occasion to send heartfelt greetings to all his old friends at Notre Dame. 
1918 

'IS—PETER J. RONCHETTI who is connected with the Nippon Com Product Co., wTites from Korea: "This is a very interesting country and the orient as a whole is quite different in many ways from what we had been used to seeing. 
"Do not know how long we will be obliged to stay here in our new plant but I foresee a trip to U. S. A. via Honolulu. We came here from Paris 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS April-May, 1932 
via Naples, Suez, Colombo, Singa­pore, Hongkong, Shanghai and Kobe, Japan. The trip around the Southern seas was verj' interesting. We are seeing some troops movement to Manchuria, also a few extra air planes flying these days." (This let­ter was sent Februarj' 9. Probably Peter can write fully on troops and planes now.) 
1919 
'19—AARON J. HALLORAN, at­torney sprang a last-minute surprise in Springfield, Ohio, by filing his petitions for congressman from the seventh district. He is a candidate for the Democratic primaries. He has been a practicing attorney in Spring­field since his graduation from Notre Dame. He is married and has two children. 
1922 
'22—Out of Cicero, 111. comes a very newsy letter from our old friend Cy Fites. We had been wondering why Cicero has become a compara­tively peaceful little hamlet here of late, but our wonder ceases now that we know Cy is on the spot to act as peacemaker among the opposing forces. Of course, Cy makes no men­tion of improved conditions in Cicero since his arrival, however, he does say a great deal about other things. Here is what Cy writes: 
"About an hour ago I finished lis­tening to Eddie Cantor's Sunday eve­ning program over the NBC. Having nothing particular to do following that, I absent-mindedly picked up the November and December issue of the ALUMNUS which were recently for­warded to me from my old home town address to which all Notre Dame correspondence is sent. 
"In looking through your news items of the class of '22, I noticed your inquiry about the whereabouts of Joe DuiTey. Without consulting Joe, I am relaj-ing the information that he was located in Chico, Cali­fornia, at the Hotel Oaks, up until last fall when I received his latest letter. As a bit more of information, Joe is an industrial engineer and was at the time in charge of organizing a wage incentive system for the Dia­mond Match Company's plant at Chico. Of course, you already know he is the proud protector of a very charming and attractive wife, the type all the 1922 boys seem to be fortunate enough, or should I say skillful enough to be able to select for partnership. 
Incidentally, that reminds me. of my own family. Maybe information con­cerning them would be news to some of the old gang. The lady of the house is the same sweetheart who at­tended the Senior Ball with me, there­by making the event a complete suc­cess for yours truly. We w^ere mar­ried the following year. Later addi­tions include a boy who is now seven years old, and a daughter who will be five in March. Vernon and Phyllis are the names. 
As for news about myself, there is little that seems important. I am now located with the Western Electric Company at Chicago where I am tech­nically known as a cost reduction en­gineer. I like the work and the Com­pany is one of the best. That just about tells the entire story. 'Tom Owens and Jimmy Devine, whom you know, are also with the Western. I see both occasionally. 
"After getting that off my mind, let us think of the future. Next June is our ten year reunion. What are we going to do to properly celebrate it? You may pass it on to the gang that I shall be there in anticipation of a real get-together. And I am going to be both disappointed and surprised if that expectation is not realized. What has been suggested or possibly planned up to the pres­ent? Let me know and count me in. 
"At times when my mind rambles back to college days, thoughts like these creep in. Some day I am going to drive over through Oak Park and locate Harold McKee, or over to the south side to see if Doctor Tom Keefe still is located there. I won­der where Von Merveldt finally set­tled down. I believe I shall write the Duffeys and have them make a visit in June. And so on down a long list of names. Well, wait until next June for 111 be seeing them all then." 
Thanks Cy, it is great to hear from you again. I believe as you do that we should have a very large delega­tion on hand for Commencement in June. Some time ago Chuck Hirsch­buhl voiced the same opinion; he even half promised to make the trip to 
N. D. from Portland, Oregon, his home city. If Chuck can make the grade, it seems certain that no men of '22 who live within a radius of a couple hundred miles should miss it. But we must work fast. June is not far away and the consolidated issues of the ALUMNUS will give us but one more opportunitj- to interest the boys. One thing is certain, we can not do anything unless a large num­ber of '22 delegates make known their wishes immediately. How about a class banquet similar to the one we had in 1927? Maybe we could per­suade Pat Manion to repeat as toast­master. 
Clarence Smith encloses a clipping giving details of Romaine Reichert's wedding which was mentioned in the last ALUMNUS. Clarence has a law practice in Bemidji, Minn. He re­ports all well with the Northern Min­nesota '22 men, and that Somaiiie*s brother Ardo and himself are still running unattached. Ardo is in the insurance business with his father at Long Prairie, Minn. Romaine is as­sociated with the Banconorthwest Company in Minneapolis. 

We note with no pleasure the low class batting average of .227 which indicates the percentage of 1922 grads who have paid their alumni dues for the current year. We are dangerously close to the cellar posi­tion in the league, but our standing can be improved if some of the boys, particularly those who can afford it, will send five dollars to Jim Arm­strong. 
Our good friend Jim has been plugging along like a faithful soldier for many years trying to build up a strong alumni organization through the medium of the ALUMNUS. It is little wonder then that he views with alarm the advent of enemy forces such as lack of interest and lack of funds that seek to destroy what he has built. Jim can combat lack of interest by means of the ALUMNUS. But lack of funds will cause the ALUMNUS to be only a memory. 
The Class of '22 belongs at the top of the league. 
1923 

'23—Mr. and Mrs. MATTHEW D. McENIEY, Jr., announce the birth of Susan on March 22, 1932. 
'23—GEORGE J. (CHIEF) DAV/­SON contributes the following dope on some of the boys: "Saw PERCE WILCOX and GUS STANGE not long ago. Both getting along 0. K. TOMMY LEE is working with Wil­cox in Minneapolis. Also met DAN FOLEY and JIM MURRAY at the Northwestern game last Fall. 
1924 

'24—^According to word from one of our "scouts" in-New York HAYES FULLER was to have been married on Wednesday, April 27, at 4:30 
P. M. to Miss Eleanor Ferguson of Yonkers, N. Y. The bride is the only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Arthur D. Ferguson. Mr. Ferguson having died only a short time ago, the marriage is to be an exceedingly quiet one. Mr. Fuller was formerly the publicity man for "Abie's Irish Rose." 
'24—NORMAN FELTES is the father of a boy, bom March 20. The mother is the daughter of Mr. Michael McGarry, '94, and a sister of Paul McGarry, a student at Notre Dame in '21. The baby was christened Norman Nicholas, Jr. Miss Evelyn McGarry and Jack Scallan, '25, being the godparents. 
'24—We received a newsy letter from CHARLES DE BARRY who is now located at 13501 De.xter Blvd., 
April-May, 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Detroit, Mich. (Somehow we still think of Charlie as a resident ot New York.) He has been in Detroit six months now and says, in part: "I haven't much news from the fellows out here because I don't know where any of them are and few of them know I am here, which, after all, isn't of a great deal of importance any way. 
"I had a visit with Jack Courtney, '25, a few days ago. He is traveling five states selling alloys of some kind for something which he explained but which I have forgotten. He if happily married with numerous chil­dren (Ed's note: two to be exact) taking dancing lessons, lessons in elocution, etc. . . ." 
Incidentally, we are printing these excerpts without the permission of the author. 
1925 

'25—Did you know that HENRY X ("Spike") Mc.\DAMS was married recently ? The girl was formerly Miss Lois Klein. After a trip to St. Peters­burg, Fla., Mr. and Mrs. McAdams will make their home at 2822 S. 132nd St., Shaker Heights, Cleveland, upon their return. Spike is associ­ated with the National Petroleum News. 
'25—FRANCIS C. BUNCE writes from Laporte that Marilyn Virginia appeared on the scene February 11th. St. Mary's now has two prospects in the family. Notre Dame .. . no score. 
'25 —Friends of BARNEY MAC­NAB will be pelased to learn that Barney has fully recovered from a serious operation which confined him in the hospital for three months. He writes that his new business address is now the Terminal Sales Bldg., Portland, Ore. 
'25—We regret to announce the death of the infant son of Mr. and Mrs. DONALD MILLER. The baby was bom April 2 and lived but a few hours. 
'25—Mrs. BEN RESTING writes that Ben has been ill in the hospital. He was supposed to have come home on April 1. We trust that by now he has fully recovered. 
'25—Miss Marie Dempsey, daugh­ter of Mr. and Mrs. Peter E. Demp­sey, Columbus, Ohio, became the bride of Mr. ANDREW WARD Mc-MULLEN of Milwaukee, Wis., on Tuesday morning, March 29 in Co­lumbus. The bride is a graduate from St. Mary's of the Springs academy and Ohio State University. ARTHUR McMULLEN, '25, brother of the grrom served as best man. The groom is identified with the National Cash Register Co. in Milwaukee. Mr. and Mrs. McMuHen will reside at 1447 N, Franklin Place, Milwaukee. 
1926 

'26—DR. GERALD J. HAYES paid the Alumni Office a visit April 23. Jerry made a flying trip to Notre Dame to be present at his brother's wedding in the Log Chapel on that date. 
'26—JOHN PROBST sent in some Class news with the announcement of LEO ST. JOHN'S wedding. Leo and the missus live at 112-B South Dela­ware, Tampa, Fla. John was not cer­tain whether this had been contained in a past issue of the mafiazine or not. . . and rather than take a chance on missing out on the wedding we are publishing it here, with apologies to our gentle readers if this bit of news has appeared previously. 
'26—Mr. and Mrs. PAUL BE­NANTE have a new manager. The boy arrived on February 17 and weighed eight pounds. The new firm of Benante, Benante and Benante is reported to be flourishing. 
'26—The second edition of the ROGER NOLANS arrived March 11, weighing seven and one half pounds and was named John Matthias. He is the playmate of Roger William, Jr. Roge also adds that the family, due to the expansion probably, will move April 1. How^ about that new ad­dress ? 
'2G—The future success of the Juggler is assured. LESTER GR.\DT has a son, bom Easter Sunday. Mother, father and baby are reported getintg along fine. (Is that respon­sible for the broad smile on the face of Uncle JOHN LEDDY as he goes about his law business at Notre Dame?) 
1927 

'27—JOHN L. FLYNN, Assistant District Attorney of Bronx County, New York, was married to Miss Eliz­abeth EUers Clark on Thursday, April 14 in Brooklyn, N. Y. After a reception in the Waldorf-.A.storia hotel, Mr. and Mrs. Flynn will leave on a trip to Europe. 
Mrs. Flynn is a graduate of St. Joseph's Academy, Brentwood, N. J., and the Maxwell Training School for Teachers. Mr. Flynn attended Notre Dame and Fordham Law School. 
'27—CL.AYTON G. LEROUX of the law firm of Leuck, Wenrick, Pinaire and ICivachy has moved to Suite S40 Leader Bldg., Cleveland. 
'27—Jean Antoinette, bom April 13, is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. WM. C. DAVIS, Jr., of Chicago. 
'27—the MICHAEL McDERMOTT's are the parents of a boy, Michael, Jr. The proud parents can be located at 817 E. 94th St., Seattle, Wash. 
'27—a letter from ED DECLERQ advises us that he is anxiously await­ing the Class Reunion in June. 
'27—HERB JONES wanders around the campus with a troubled look on his brow these days. No, not worry­ing about football tickets, but trying to figure out how many rabbits the hunters got. Ask Herb for details. 
'27—FRANK HAGENBARTH says he is still with the Harris Trust •& Savings Bank in St. Paul. He adds that he sees JOE DUNN ever so often and says that Joe is as hand­some as ever . . . even to the curly hair. Also that JERRY LESTRANGE was in St. Paul about two months ago and was selling advertising .for a magazine. He looked fine and was anxious for some news of the Class of '27. 
'27-JOSEPH H. DUNN, of Brain-, erd, Minn., has been a resident in the halls of Cornell for the past two years. He is "doing his best" (note quotations) to learn Hotel Manage­emnt. Joe says in a recent note that he met MARK NOLAN late last Summer in St. Paul. He also wants to know what happened to HAYES FULLER. (Ed's note: Read wedding announcements under '24.) 
'27—Our correspondent from the East tells us that one of the newest recruits in that area is EUGENE SCHILTZ who is associated with Price and Schiltz, dealers in D. L. & 
W. Scranton Coal in Newark, N. Y. And on the top of the letterhead is this: "One Good Ton Deserves An­other." Any good sharp shooter will probably bea ble to locate Gene at 205 N. Main St. The Alumni Office is in a state of collapse! 
1928 

'28—JOE MORRISSEY is passing cigars these days. Joe, the second, arrived March 11 and weighed eight and five-eights pounds. Mother, baby and the old man are doing nicely. 
'28—WALLACE MACDONALD has recently taken unto himself a wife, the former Miss Anna Elizabeth Wol­lenberg. Wallace is associated with the Fulton Insurance Company, New York. They will reside at Jackson Heights, Long Island. 
'28-JOHN RICKORD sent a long letter to the Alumni Secretary re­cently. In it he says: " can positive­ly state that the Rickord family is in the best of health and spirits, despite the depression. John Joseph is do­ing nicely and the old man is study­ing harder than he ever did while at school." The Rickords live at 1507 Virginia St., Sioux City, Iowa. 
'28—BERNARD E. ZIPPPEEEK is a candidate for State Senator from 
Ohio. His district, includes Youngs­town and vicinity. Bemie is on the Democratic side of the ledger. A re­cent note informs us that he will try to make Commencement this year. More power! 
'28—"You Can't Keep A Good Man Down," a four-act comedy, was given in the Visitation auditorium, Chicago, recently. The cast included our own RAYMOND LAWLER. A newspaper photograph showed Ray, smiling . . . and why not? He was surrounded by a bevj' of beauties who had parts in the comedy. We anticipate a rush on booking agents by our alumni after this picture gets around. 
'28—DAVID SOLOMON is study­ing medicine. He has received an in­ternship appointment at Mercy Hos­pital in Pittsburgh, together with FRANK HE G ARTY and DICK WEHS. They will begin work in the hospital in July. 
'28—EUGENE A. SCHILTZ is the father of a son, Donald, who looks like a future fullback, are living in Newark, N, Y. 
'28—Announcement was made on Easter Monday of the engagement of Miss M. Ingamar Alven, Olean, N. Y., to CHARLES J. DUCEY, of New Haven, Conn. The wedding will take place in Olean on June 6. Mr. and Mrs. Ducey will reside in New Haven, Conn., where Charley is engaged by the Supreme Council of the Knights of Columbus. Miss Alven attended Penn Hall School for Girls and at the com­pletion of her course there sailed for Europe where she spent three years in study in France, Italy and Ger­many. On her return to America she enrolled in the graduate school of Fine Arts at Yale University. 
'28—BERNIE BIRD is recovering from an attack of the "flu." He re­cently received an important civic appointment. 
'29—FRANCIS A. McCULLOUGH who has been connected with the legal departments of the InsuU Util­ity Companies in San Antonio and Dallas the last two and a half years, announces the opening of a law office at 1024 Allen Building, Dallas, Texas, where he will engage in the general practice of law. 
1929 

'29—HENRY WATTS EICHER, formerly of Notre Dame in connec­tion with the Endowment Drive, is now in New York with the John Mc­Namara Organization, which organi­zation boasts a number of Notre Dame men, has taken an apartment in Tudor City. The address is 45 Prospect Place, Apartment 1809. (The telephone number, girls, is Murray Hill, 4-0909.) As far as we know. Watts is still single and "wolfing." 
'29—GEORGE MONROE was the victim of an automobile accident last October and is still "laid up," accord­ing to a recent note from him. 
'29 —CLATE WANEK, Aurora, Neb,, is still running his father's bank. 
•29—NORMAN HARTZER has re­cently become associated with Mont­gomery & Niemiec, lawj-ers, in South Bend. 
'29—JAMES W. TOBIN, Elgin, 111., is studying medicine at the Univer­sity of Chicago. 
1930 

'20—HARRY J. PORTER is build­ing roads in the wilderness of North-em Wisconsin. 
'30—PAUL J. KLEISER is a nom­inee for County Surveyor, Misha­waka, on the Democratic ticket. 
'30—Mr. and Mrs. HENRY E. HINSENIvAMP are the parents of a seven and a half pound baby boy, bom March 16. Henrj' hopes that he will be a future student at Notre Dame, (page the Registrar.) 
'30-^ACK ELDER, with MARTY BRILL were visitors at Santa Clara University recently. Jack visited his old classmate, ROBERT LANE who is now professor of organic chemistry at Santa Clara. 
'30—DOMINICK D. BRUSCA is a student in medical school, according to a recent note. 
'30—EDWARD SMITH of South Bend is a candidate for County Pros­ecutor at the primaries this Spring. He is running on the Republican ticket. 
'80—WILLIAM A. DUNLEVY is connected with the A. & P. Rumor has it that he is "that way" about some one. 
'30—J. A. MORGAN has been teaching history and economics at the East Pittsburgh High School for the past two years. 
'30—^The engagement of Miss Helen Stoody, of Ottawa, Ontario to JOHN 
E. MOTZ, of ICitchener, Ontario was recently announced. The wedding will take place on June 2, after which the couple will leave on a wedding trip to England and France. 
•30—BERNIE CONROY adds some news for the '30 boys. "JACK EL­DER was in the city (New York) for a few days this week. He came in charge of a group of Chicago basket­ball players and Jack's team took home the honors. 
Write for quotations on the new 
UniversUy of Notre Dame 
Standard 
Ring 
just adopted 
The Charles H. Elliott Company 
l7lhSl. and Lehigh Aecnuc 
Philadelphia, : Pennsylvania 
1931 

'31—WILLIAM C. KARL, is at present studying at the University of Berlin in the iield of Aeronautical engineering. He can be reached at Kouzlerweg 15, Tempelhof, Berlin. Bill has been contributing a series of articles on his work and life in Ber­lin for the ScMastic. 
'31—MICHAEL KINNEY was re­cently elected Justice of the Peace in Dixon, m. 
'31-JOHN 0. WEIBLER contrib­uted a fine letted recently. It reads, in part: "No doubt you are wonder­ing what this member of the Class of '31 is doing. Well, since the second week in December I have been work­ing as News Editor for a small week­ly newspaper in Riverside called The Riversider. As I studied journalism a tN. D. this work is particularly ap­pealing to me .. . I have been carry­ing on a correspondence with GEORGE JACKOBOICE of Grand Rapids, Mich. . . . HARRY MERD­ZINSKI, also of Grand Rapids, is studying Law at Michigan . . ." In­cidentally, John has moved to 830 Park Ave., River Forest, 111. 
'31—JOHN W. ANDERSON, Jr., is working for the city of Bufflao, on the Planning Board as a draftsman. 
'31—W. P. McCULLOCK has an­other addition to the McCuUock fam­ily. W. P. Jr., was bom March 1. He has a little sister, eleven months old. 
'31—RAY DONLAN, OLIVER F. FIELD and JOHN DORGAN, '29, have passed the March Bar Exami­nations in Illinois. 







