The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
Rockne Memorial Started Lunn Writes on Communisn University Affairs President's Rase Spotlight Alumni First Four Games 
Campus News Club News Class News 

Commerce Buildins, with new Plaza in Foresround. 
rol. 16 November, 1937 No. 2 
NOTRE DAME in PORTRAIT 
Announcing: AN EXTRAORDINARILY BEAUTIFUL 
* CALENDAR FOR THE YEAR 1938 

Memories . . . 
Of lasting appeal to all alumni, prospective students, and friends of Notre Dame are given sub­stance in a set of twelve excep­tional photographs of the Univer­sity with a useful calendar for the year 1938, beginning with the month of January. 

As a Christmas or New Vear's greeting to alumni and classmates, Notre Dame in Portrait is sure to be received with apprecia­tion and enthusiasm. 
The first publication of its kind, Notre Dame in Portrait, with its twelve outstanding views, will be wire-bound for either wall or desk use. The calendar of events will interest Alumni and make easy the planning of trips back to Notre Dame. Each portrait will be suita­ble for framing, and will give last­ing pleasure to all to whom Notre Dame memories are dear. 
(Calendar portraits arc three times this size.) 
For one dollar a copy, plus ten cents each for mailing, Notre Dame in Portrait will be sent, suitably boxed, 
to any United States or foreign address. Send your order to:. — 
WILLIAM TUNNEY, 22 Morrissey Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG. "25 The mnsazine is published from October to June inclusive by the Alumni Assoaation Member of the American of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 
Editor Alumni Council. 
a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include WlILUAM R. DOOLEY, 76 a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, Member of Natl. Catholic Managing Editor 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Alumni Federation 
Vol. 16 November, 1937 No. 2 
To Break Ground for Memorial to Rockne 
Construction activities on the Rockne Memorial, dedicated to the late Knute K. Rockne, will get under way on November 5, according to the announcement made on October 28 by Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president of the University. 
The huge building, 128 feet ^vide and 210 feet long, will be open, at least in part, for the beginning of the 1938-1939 school year. The foundations are to be laid this fall and the work will be resumed again in the spring; the amount of the funds available will determine the ex­tent of the spring's construction work. The fund-raising drive, started in 1931, resulted in ?135,000, being subscribed for the erection of the building; in the interim accumulated interest has boosted the amount to $150,000. To augment this sum, the University has appropriated $200,000 to be used for the erection of the building. However, the total cost will reach at least $550,000. 
Dedicated to Knute Rockne, be­loved football coach of Notre Dame, the building will in several ways honor his memory. A great foyer, large in length and width, will ex­tend to the height of the building. Here will be housed the athletic tro­phies of the University. The name is to be simply the Rockne Room. 
The Memorial will be located on the present site of the ninth and eighteenth greens of the golf course. These greens will be re-located short­ly. It will set off the long expanse of buildings extending west from Cartier Field. 
Into the Rockne Memorial will go all the physical equipment necessary for the needs of the student body. A ninety-foot swimming pool will be the featured attraction. 
In addition to the natatorium, there will be twelve courts for hand­ball and squash. Since the building will be devoted entirely to the phy­sical training needs of the student body, three standard basketball courts ^vill be provided for interhall activi­ties. 
Quarters will be provided for box­ing, wrestling, and sports of a simi­lar type. General exercise rooms will be equipped with apparatus for cor­rective gymnastics. For the devotees of golf, various facilities will be pro­vided; the building will also contain lockers for the use of the students. 
The plans for the building were drawn up by Maurice Carroll, 19, and C. E. Dean, of Kansas City. The supervising architects of the Univer­sity, Maginnis and Walsh, of Boston, were associated with the. two men in their work. 
In harmony with the designs of the newer buildings on the campus the Memorial will be of a collegiate gothic style, and the construction wHl be of brick with a Bedford stone trim. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus November 1937 
The Quieter Notre Dame Front 
Van Wallace and Sniie 
Are Sources 

Record enrollment . . . distin­guished European professors • . . Layden pessimistic . . . Army and Minnesota tickets sold out . . . Notre DameOTU be on the air-ways. . . . 
It isn't so difficult for an alumnus to keep track of his Alma Mater "these days. 
But there are more quiet fronts, on which the more quiet teachings of the University are receiving applica­tion with the grimness of life and death. 
And from these occasionally comes a report that is more lastingly stimu­lating than those of the more often recognized. 
Two Notre Dame men have suf­fered one of life's greatest tragedies, paralysis. 
Van Wallace, '27, was paralyzed in the Summer of 1924 hy an acci­dent while diving. Doctors then gave him nine days to live. Today, para­Ij'zed so that he must remain on his back constantly, he is not only alive but cheerful, emanating a beautiful philosophical and spiritual influence on a growing circle of friends. And he conducts an insurance business from this condition. 
Fred Snite Jr., '33, was stricken with infantile paralysis in Peking, China, in March of 1936. Happily, perhaps to compensate for a most promising business career he had al­ready launched, every resource was drawn upon to fight the dreaded at­tack. As a result of almost miracu­lous circumstances, Fred was brought to Chicago this summer and is now in Florida, offered some seven years of convalescence under this physical handicap. 
You have followed the career of 

his illness and his trip home through 
the press. And you have followed 
the career of Van Wallace through 
the Religious Bulletin. 
The ALUMNUS can do little more than repeat the constant request for prayers, which seem to have played so prominent a part in these trage­dies of fellow alumni. 
Two bright bits of news originated from their respective sources re­cently. 
Van Wallace was presented by the Notre Dame Club of Detroit with a specially equipped automobile, which will enable him to travel with much less difficulty. The car, built by the 

 of Faith. 
Chevrolet company, is so constructed that Van's bed can be lifted easily into it. Those who know his enjoy­ment of the several games he has see n i n les s comfortable circum­stances at Notre Dame, will know what this means, And all of you will know what it means to a boy who was an athlete in high school, and whose goal was engineering. 
And from Chicago came word of a new 'lung" to take the place of the ponderous "iron lung" in which VreA Snite has lived since he was stricken in China. The new affair, made like a jacket, is of foreign de­sign, made of lighter metal, covering less of the body. This will, it is hoped, permit a more rapid recovery of other parts of the body. 
Fred and Van should both be, to all alumni, sources of faith and ob­jects of prayers. 
X^lie lltuveriHy acKnowleaqes wUh 9eep qraiihwe ilte folLwinq qifis: 
From MRS. ANNA J. DOARN, of Omaha, Nebraska: 
A memorial scholarship in memoiy of the late  
John C. Doarn, Class of 1929  f 1,000  
From the estate of the late AMBROSE MAJOR, '86:  
For the Roger Ryan Memorial Scholarship for a  
student who is physically handicapped  500  
Anonymous: A current scholarship for Professor Louis  
Buckley to do advanced work in Economics  1,500  
From MISS MARGARET BURKE, Chicago, Illinois:  
Two paintings for the Art Gallery.  
For the Dante Statue Fund: FRANCIS D . PARTLAN, '32  10  
JAMES W . MURRAY,  '31  5  
Anonymous  10  
From the VERY REV. URBAN DE HASQUE, LL.D . '18,  
Antwerp, Belgiimi: A collection of French literature.  
From IRA D . HOWARD, South Bend:  
A collection of opera music and opera costumes.  
Anonymous: For a Scholarship in Higher Mathematics  500  
From the VERY REV. J. F. CALLAGHAN, Chicago:  
A portrait of Bishop Muldoon, by Kavanaugh.  
From MRS. FREDERICK H . WICKETT, Chicago:  

The Monlake Tapestry, a collection of drawings, a cas­sone, and many other art objects, which have been on loan in the Wickett Room in the University Library. The total value of this collection is many thousands of dollars. 
From the MOST REV. KARL J. ALTER, D.D., Bishop of Toledo: For needy students ^ 250 From MR. D. F. KELLY, LL.D. '30: For the Rockne Memorial 500 
From the RT. REV. MSGR. JOSEPH L. O'BRIEN, Charleston, S. C: For the University Archives: A photostat copy of Bishop England's diary. 
For the Medieval Library Fund: Anonymous 1,000 
RAYMOND DISCO, '31 60 
For Research in Economics: Anonymous 15,000 From WiLUAM DAUNT, '05: A collection of rare books on stained glass. From MISS JOSEPHINE BROWNSON, Detroit: A collection of Orestes Brownson books. 
November, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 



UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS . . . 
'C'ACULTY marriages of the sum­•*• mer: Earl F. Langxvell, of the Department of Modern Language, and Miss Pauline Bryant, South Bend; Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Depart­ment of Music, and Miss Helen Melin­ski, Chicago; Stanley S. Price, of the Department of Finance and Accounts, and Miss Verda Elizabeth Harrison, Niles, Michigan. 
A MEMORIAL e.\hibition of the 
•'*•paintings of the late Professor Emil Jacques will be featured from November 4 to November 21 in the art galleries on the campus. Several prize-winnings will be among the sixty on display. 
TfOUNDER'S DAY was, as always, ^ observed on October 13, the feast of St. Edward, patron of Father Edward Sorin, C. S. C, founder of the University. Solemn Mass was celebrated by Father O'Hara in Sacred Heart Church and Father Eugene Burkegave the sermon. There were no classes. 
Q
UESTIONS concerning Rockne and Notre Dame football were easily the leadeis among the scores asked by the estimated 85,000 persons who visited the campus in the summer just past, according to John Lechner, '37, and Harold Goebel, '35, both of South Bend, who were the official campus guides. 
F
ATHER CHARLES MILTNER, C.S.C, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, has an article, "Objectives in Teaching Philosophy," in the October issue of The New Scholasticism. 
M
R. J. DONALD WATSON, asso­ciate professor of finance, is the author of a book on business mathe­matics for college students which has just been published by the Ronald Press Company, New York. 
A 
SCIENTIFIC experiment which will take two hundred years to complete is being attempted at the University. 
Six cultures of bacteria, sealed in glass test tubes, have been deposited in the cornerstone of the new biology building to remain there until the building is torn down. According to present building statistics the struc­ure should last at least one hundred and fifty to two hundred years. 
determine how long this type of microbe can exist outside of bodies. 
Sealed with the test tubes is a statement typed on linen paper which reads: 
"These cultures are being sealed June 6, 1936. They have been taken from the culture librai-y of the bac­teriological laboratories of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, They have been examined microscopically and have shown to be in the spore state. They were riable when sealed. 
"To the one that opens them it is suggested that they be cultured on the medium on which they have been grown. The medium is veal infusion agar. (Signed) James A. Reyniers, head of laboratories of bacteriology." 
Spores are the resistant form of microbes and can withstand extreme­ly high temperatures. They have been known to exist for years without food of any type. 
rpHE CAMPUS RADIO station, op­-^erating through WSBT-WFAM, the South Bend Tribune stations, opened its activities for the year on Oct. 12 with a program in honor of Founder's Day. Father Eugene Burke, director of campus radio activities, and William R. Dooley, managing editor of the ALU.MXUS, were the speakers. 
Numerous programs, featuring both faculty speakers and student talent of all sorts, are on the air each week from the campus studios in the John F. Gushing Hall of Engineering. 
rpHE KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
•^building, long the dream that the young men of the campus Council have dreamed, is far from a tabled issue. 
The development of the University has constantly altered the detail of the proposed building, and in the almost quarter century of Its develop­ment there has been a radical change in the campus it is to grace. But fundamentally it remains a live cause. 
And at the last meeting of the Building Corporation, a group of men entrusted with the Building Fund accumulated over this period, some §50,000, the issue took on new life that promises early action. 
Professor Raymond A, Hoyer, head of the Boy Life work at the University, a Knight of Columbus activity itself, is president of the corporation. Professor Frank Flynn, South Bend community chest execu­tive, is vice-president. E. F. Connolly, manager of the University Dining Halls, is secretary, and Eli P. Abra­ham, financial secretary of the Council, is treasurer. Members of the boai-d of directors are Frank W. Lloyd, comptroller of the University; Professor Stephen Bocskey, Profes­sor Leo Kuntz, and James E. Arm­strong, alumni secretary. 
A report of the treasurer, who attended the national convention of the Order in New Orleans, stimu­lated new activity in the promotion of the proposed building. 
Interested alumni can follow de­velopments through the Santa Maria and subsequent issues of the ALUMNUS. 
T>Y WAY OF THE enthusiastic •*-^ Jimmy Costin, sports editor of the South Bend News-Times, (who used it in his paper) comes the story of the "Victory March" as sent by 
The new Zahni Hall, as viewed from the southwest.
Thp object of the experiment is to 
The Notre Dame Alumnus November 1937 
Joe Doyle, city editor of the Holyoke, Massachusetts, Transcnpt-Telegram, to Joe L. Markham, Butte, Montana. 
"Johnny Shea and Mike Shea went to Notre Dame. Johnny was captain and shortstop of the Notre Dame baseball team. Johnny came home to enter politics and was senator from the second Hampden district here for several terms, a brilliant speaker and writer. His brother 10ke turned to the church and is now Eev. Michael 
J. Shea, S. J., and a teacher at the Jesuit seim'naiy at Dunwoodie—on the Hudson. John and Mike wrote the now famous Notre Dame Victory March. The Notre Dame song was given its first 'tryout' in the Second Congregational church in this city, and that's a story. 
"Johnny wrote the words and Eev. Michael, the music. Father Shea is a brilliant musician. He was organist at St. Patrick's cathedral in New York for some years before he went to Dunwoodie seminary. Seems like Father Mike used to take piano les­sons from Prof. William C. Hammond in his school days and later when he was organist at St. Patrick's cathe­dral—and Hammond, you know, is one of the best organists in the east— they had much in common. 
"Prof. Hammond met Father Mike on the street one winter's day when the priest was here on vacation. Father Mike told about the song. Hammond wanted to hear it and in­vited Father Mike to come down to the Second church that afternoon at 5 o'clock and try it out on the Second church's new organ. So Brother John­ny Shea invited himself, Gordon Powers and Bill Kelly to attend the private organ recital. 
"There were the four Irishmen, Kelly, Doyle, Shea and Powers, sit­ting in the fi-ont TOW of pews. At the organ was Father Mike Shea—a Pi-otestant church, mind ye—and behind him, near the organ, sat Prof. Hammond. The only light in the church was that over the organ key­board. The first thing Father Mike did was to swing into the Notre Dame march. We—that is, Kelly, Powers and Doyle—perked up and whispered to John Shea as to the name of the selection. And says Johnny, 'That's going to be Notre Dame's No. 1 song. Notre Dame doesn't know about it yet.' 
"While the stirring tune was rolled off the organ, a group of men wan­dered into the chancel. They walked single file into seats. They looked to­ward the organ keyboard and were no doubt given the surprise of their lives when they spotted a man wearing a Roman collar thumping away at the. keys. It happened that one of the men—they were church deacons gath­ering for a special meeting—was Aaron C. Bagg, who went to Hgh school with Father Shea, and he in­troduced the priest to his brother deacons. Also, at the request of Prof. Hammond, Father Michael again played the Victoiy March for the deacons. 
" 'You've got something there,' one of the deacons said to the brothers. 
'"I'll tell the world they have," was the reply of yours truly —lOE DOYLE." 
(Eds', note: Father Shea isn't a Jesuit and the seminary at Dun­woodie isn't run by Jesuits. This slight inaccuracy doesn't detract from a grand story.) 
ARNOLD LUNN, English author 
•^^ and lecturer who is a member of the faculty, is gi\'ing a series of Thursday night lectures in Washing­ton Hall on the present difficulties in Spain. Mr. Lunn spent part of the summer in Spain and, consequently, brings first-hand information to the campus. The lectures are open to the public. 
TLLINOIS, with an enrollment of -*- 470, leads all other States among the present Notre Dame student body. New York is second with i6i and Indiana third with 403. Every state and eleven foreign countries are rep­resented. The final enrollment for the semester is 3,080. For the first time, the College of Commerce leads the colleges, with 1,073. Arts and Letters is second, with 917. 
"nE. WALDEMAR GUKIAN was 
•'-' impressed by the kindness and friendliness of Notre Dame when he arrived on the campus in early Octo­ber from Switzerland to teach courses in politics and the reform of capital­ism. An authority on German and Russia, Dr. Gurian is the author of many books, and is a leading contrib­utor to many current journals. 
A BOOK ONCE PRIZED by Chris­
•^^ topher Columbus is now in the treasure room of the University librarj'. 
Worm-eaten and yellow wth age, this 400-year old book is bound in human skin—the skin of a "Moorish chieftain, who was hostile and even unmerciful to the Christians in Spain." The binding of books in hu­man skin was not an uncommon cus­tom in medieval times because human skin is one of the most durable of all hides, and because medieval knights and their ladies considered it a charming way in which to indicate enduring affection for one another. 
According to the date on the fly­leaf, the book was printed on March 15, 1503 in Strasburg, Germany. It was written in Latin by an Italian prince, Pico Mirandula, and contains a collection of articles on philosophy, mathematics, science and astronomy. The type represents the earliest used in printing. The style is Gothic, large black and curlicued according to the whim of the typemaker. 
The book was presented to Colum­bus by Cardinal Ximenes, a good friend of King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella. It was one of a number of presents received by the discoverer when he returned from his second voyage to the new world. 
Columbus evidently valued it high­ly as he kept it until he died. After his death the book passed into the possession of the Columbian library of the Cathedral of Seville. In this famous library all books were chained to the shelves or the tables where readers came in for literaary, scienti­fic or philosophical diversion, an3 this volume has a small hole in the back denoting that it too had been chained. 
Through some channel — probably the Spanish monks—the book reached the new world and was placed in a library in Peru, South America. Dur­ing one of the numerous revolutions which featured the history of that country the book was stolen as a trophy of war. A note in the front of the book describes its being stolen as "robber rights which the war gives," and is signed S. C. Braganya de la Coralla. Mr. Coralla presented it to the University. 
rjR . ELVIN ROY HANDY, instruc­^ tor in the department of Physical Education, received a degree of Ph.D. in Physical Education, with a minor in Physiology and Hygiene last summer from the State University of Iowa. As his thesis for this degree Mr. Handy %vrote on, "A Further Valida­tion of the Puke-Ratio Test as a Measure of Physical Efficiency and Endurance." 
Mr. Handy has a well founded background in the Physical Educa­tion field. From 1926 to 1929 he was director of athletics and physical ed­ucation at the Centennial High school of Pueblo, Colorado. From 1929 to 1931 he held the position of director of athletics, health, and physical edu­cation in the University of Iowa's experimental school. Since 1931 Mr. Handy has been an instructor in physical education at Notre Dame, and from 1932-34 he was assistant track coach. 
Mr. Handy is a charter member of the Graduate Society of Physical Ed­ucation of the State University of Iowa, and also has memberships in Alpha Tau Omega, Phi Epsilon Kap­pa and the American Physical Edu­cation Association. 

The Communist Threat to Peace 
By ARNOLD LUNN 

Having Failed to Sieze Power by Direct At­
tack, Except in Russia, Communists Now Use 
Camouflaged Propaganda, Says Mr. Lunn. 
(Ed. Note: Mr. Limn, internation­ally knoion author, came to Notre Dame in the Septeinber of 19S6 as a professor in the newly established courses in Apologetics. Since that, he lias returned several times to Europe, particularly to Switzerland and Spain, and possesses the most recent information of the world cur­rents which flow through those two centers. Mr. Lunn's journalistic abil­ity is evident, as is his familiarity with his subject, in the following article. The ALU.MNUS, of course, does not assu^ne responsibility for opinions expressed.) 
Communism has failed by fi-ontal attack to seize power in any country outside of Russia. It failed in Bava­i-ia, in Hungary and in Italy. Its only achievement so far has been the creation of Fascism. Fascism, as Mr. Baldwin recently reminded the Labor Party, has nowhere been a spontaneous movement. It is the reac­tion of civilization to save its very existence. Those who do not wish to see Great Britain become Fascist should combine to arrest the rapid movement towards Communism. 
The direct attack having failed "the attack from the rear," to quote Kuusinen, "is to take its place." 
Moscow realizes that a sensational increase in the number of professed Communists may have a deterrent effect on the spread of Communism. It may provoke a Fascist reaction. Moscow has therefore decided that Communism may best be served by i-estricting the number of open adher­ents and by increasing those whom we may describe as the Communist penumbra. 
Camouflaired Propaganda 

The open attack having failed. Communists have now fallen back on the second line, of camouflaged prop­aganda. "It is much easier and pleasanter to smash things," wrote Karl Radek. Eadek advocated profes­sions of friendship as a weapon against the enemies of Coimnunism "in order that we may crush them in our embrace." 
Among the things which Stalin has found it pleasant to smash are the ambitions of Radek himself. He has i-ecently been crushed by the embrace of the very Frankenstein he had helped to cieate. 
The Moscow embrace technique is to some extent an infringement of the Judas kiss patent, but Moscow must be given the credit for the scientific application _of the tactics which Judas originated. "We must create," wrote Kuusinen, principal Director of Soviet Px-opaganda, "a whole solar system of organizations and smallex- committees round the Communist Party. Smaller organiza­tions working actually under the in­fluence of our Party, but not under its mechanical leadership." 
Open Propaganda 

The Daily Worker is an example of open propaganda, probably less effective than the camouflaged propa­ganda of the numerous Trade papers subsidized from Moscow. Among these cyclostyle sheets may be men­tioned "Poiuer" the paper for electri­cal workers. The Red Letter for postal workers, The Working Baker, Thn Fiiniiture Worker, The Jogger for clerks. The Busman's Punch, The Railway Vigilant, The London Docker, The Seafarer, etc. These papers are Communist in tendency but they avoid the symbols of the workers' revolutionary government, the ham­mer and sickle, and seldom contain open incitement to revolt. Very sig­nificant was a letter written by Lenin in English, giving instructions for the foundation of an English Com­munist paper. "We must be (in the beginning) very prudent. The paper 
NEXT ISSUE LATER 
The next issue of the ALUMNUS will be mailed in mid-December, approximate­ly, rather than in early De­cember, as has been custom­ary. The following issue will appear in early February. The January issue will be dropped. 
This change in the publi­cation schedule is made ad­visable by the necessity for economy in the Alumni As­sociation's program. 

must be not too revolutionary in the beginning. If you have thiree Editors, at least one must be non-Communist." 
The most effective development of the Radek embrace technique is the formation of the Popular Front. 1 once defined the Popular Front as a scheme for securing seats for an Unpopular Rump, but the letter in which I offered this definition was not published by the New Statesman. 
Communism has proved itself capa­ble of controlling a Popular Front in Spain, which is nominally controlled by Left-Wing moderates. It is not necessary for Communism to provide the Prime Minister, or even to be rep­resented in the Cabinet of a Popular Front in order to achieve its final end. 
Different Tactics 

To sum up. Moscow differentiates shai-ply between the tactics which are to be employed in prepar­ing the ground for revolution, and the methods to be exploited once revolution has begun. 
As tactical approach. Communists are to preach democracy and broth­erhood. "Outline non-revolutionary methods to win the youth, and then take them over in Bolshevist fash­ion." "We intentionally expunged," wrote Dimitrov, "from the Report as well as the decision of the Congress high-sounding phrases on the revolu­tionary perspective. This is not be­cause we have any ground for ap­praising the tempo of revolutionary development less optimistically than before." 
So much for the tactical approach. The Communist realizes that revolu­tions are made by minorities, and that the Commimistic possibilities of a Popular Front are not determined by the number of professed Commun­ists in its ranks, but by the Com­munist penumbra. 
The naivete -with which Moscow-publishes for the world to read not only its tactical and non-revolution­ary methods of propaganda, bat also, and often in the. same volume, its determination to use violence when the time is ripe would be more sur­prising if Moscow was not justified in its contempt for the gullibility of 
The Notre Dame Alumnus November 1937 
those amiable enthusiasts who con­stitute the Communist penumbra. Moscow has discovered that there is no limit to the faith of "pink inno­cents abroad." All that is necessary is to give them a personallj' conducted tour round a Moscow hospital speci­ally prepared for the occasion, suffices for the "Innocents Abroad," and a photograph of the said hospital for the innocents at home. "Every sec­ond a sucker is bom," to quote a vig­orous American prophet, but it would seem that both Great Britain and America are getting more than their fair share of suckers. Nothing is more galling to the patriotic Briton, proud of his imperial heritage as a citizen of a ruling race, than the ease with which his countrymen can be persuaded to adopt the role of Mos­cow's prophets. We are being had for mugs in ever-increasing numbers, a fact which is e.vasperating to those who are old enough to remember the sunset of the Victorian age, when the progressive Russian still worshipped at the shrine of Westminster and still believed that Mr. Gladstone was the supreme embodiment of political wisdom. 
Revenge on Hngland 
Modem Kussia is ha-ving her re­venge on Victorian England. Moscow is today what London was in the nineteenth centui-y, the headquarters of a world-wide movement. England exported Liberalism in the nineteenth century, Moscow is exporting Com­munism in the twentieth. In Victo­rian literature, Eussia was the enemy. Her armies were a constant menaco beyond the barrier of the Himalayas. In her stniggle for power Russia was gravely weakened by the disintegrat­ing effects of the apostles of English Liberalism. The incessant propaganda for English Parliamentarism exer­cised a disintegrating effect on the unity of the nation. 
Today the situation is reversed. Russia has i-etumed to the power policy of the Czars, and is exploiting Communism as a weapon of disin­tegration in other counti-ies. Every Communist agitator in Great Britain is the agent, conscious or unconscious, of the new Russian impei-ialism. Com­munism is weakening Great Britain today, much as Liberalism weakened nineteenth century Russia. 
For this reason. Communism con­tinued to be preached long after Socialism had completely disappeared from modem Russia. Russians will still profess Communism, for much the same reason that extreme mod­ernists cling tenaciously to Christi­anity, and will re-interpret it as mod­ernists re-interpret Christianity. 
In the nineteenth century we fought Russia once and were pre­pared to fight her again. In that re­spect the situation was different from the situation today. There is no pros­pect of a war against Russia, but there is every prospect that we may be forced to fight on the side of Russia. 
The long-term policy of Commun­ism is the promotion of Civil War in England and elsewhere; their short-term policy, a European War in which Great Britain shall fight as the ally of Communism against the Fascist Powers. 
Concerning Czechoslovakia 
Czechoslovakia is the danger spot. A million Germans and a million Hun­garians are in a condition of latent revolt against their Czech masters. We fought the last war under the banner of self-determination; and w-e may be fighting in the next war to prevent the self-determination of these minorities. Our statesmen are now believed to be divided on this issue. Some are reluctant to be dragged into a war of ideologies; others believe that if Germany is allowed to defeat Czechoslovakia, she will become irresistible, that Ger­many, not Russian Communism, pre­sents the supreme danger to the British Empire. 
The son of a famous politician, with whom I discussed this question, defined his own and presumably his father's attitude in a conversation which I shall not easily forget. "If Germany fights," he said, "we must fight. The moment Germany marches into Czechoslovakia, we must march. It would be easy to mobilize public opinion for the Socialists will back a war against the Nazis. The pacifists will present no trouble, for though they won't die for England, they can easily be persuaded to die for Gene­va. The League racket is a God-send. It is a magnificent scheme for safe­guarding the frontiers of the British Empire, and for insuring the con­tented nations against the discon­tented. The League is the obvious policy for the Tiaves.' The League exists to keep the "have nots" in that state of life which it has pleased God and Wilson to call them. A grand racket. Thank God we're in on it." 
League of Nations 
The League of Nations, as Sir John Marriott remarked recently in "The Times," is for all practical pur­poses "the alliance of 1914 bereft of the adherence of Japan, Italy and the 
U. S. -A.. . . . Collective Security is a delusion in terms, and may soon become a terrible snare." 
Not "may become" but "has be­come." "Collective security" today means nothing more or less than col­lective security for Communism, and collective insecurity for the rest of us. The League is a happy hunting-ground of Communists and their 
friends. An old-fashioned Libei-al who spent a week in Geneva recently and who had listened to a sei-ies of lectures delivered under League auspices assured me that every one of them consisted mainly of propa­ganda, covert or cleverly concealed, for the Soriet. The Swiss are begin­ning to discover that Lit\'inoff's famous slogan, "Peace is indivisible" is the recipe for a war in which our sons will die for Moscow. If there be a counti-y which has no aggressive designs against its neighbors, has everything to lose and nothing to gain from war, that counti-y is Switzer­land. If there be a countiy which has consistently welcomed every Peace conference, and la^^shed hos­pitality on the prophets of Peace, that country is Switzerland. Why then did Switzerland decide at the eleventh hour to cancel her permis­sion for the 1936 Anti-War Con­gi-ess to meet at Geneva, with the re­sult that this Congress ultimately met in Brussels? Because the Swiss, who are realists, had discovered that these Congresses are used by Com­munists for promoting not peace but war, for the Communists have decided that neither Mussolini nor Hitler can be overthrown by internal revolution, and that the only hope of destroy­ing Fascism and Nazism is a Euro­pean war. Such were the reasons given in the most influential Swiss paper, the Nene Ziircher Zeitung of Zurich for a decision which on the surface appeared to be the reverse of traditional policy of the Swiss Confederation. 
Books on Peace 
Three books have recently ap­peared which deser\-e the most atten­tive study by those who are fanatic supporters, as is the present writer— of time peace, and by those who delete the militarism of our pseudo-pacifists. The trilogj' in question con­sists of the following books, Left Winr/s over Europe. Count Your Dead—Then Ai-e Alive, by Wyndham Lewis, and Geneva vcr.iuii Peace, by the Comte de Saint-Aulaire (who was French Ambassador to Great Britain 1920-1924). 
The thesis of Geneva versus Peace is this: Geneva is dominated by Mos­cow and has two scales of justice according as to whether the victim of aggression is the victim of Russian Imperialism or of Italian Fascism. If Russia is the aggressor, the League is silent. The League condoned the invasion of Poland. It never attempted to apply sanctions until Italy was the aggressor. It is true that Poland was technically the aggressor because the Poles anticipated an imminent Rus­sian attack. Even so, it was the duty of the League to call upon both com­batants to submit their case to the 
(Continued rn P.ijre 44) 

November, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 



THE PRESIDENT'S PAGE BV wt. E co^er,« 
EUROPEAN SCHOLARS 
The announcement by the Univ­ersity of the appointment of several notable European scholars to the faculty for the current school year prompts this message to the alumni. That this addition of internationally recognized scholars is welcomed by our alumni body we know. At the same time, we all desire to express our appreciation of those other un­heralded scholars, the priests, broth­ers, and lay professoi-s who are gi\"ing themselves without stint to the task of educating the young men of Notre Dame. We owe them more than mere recognition. Their loyalty, their sacrifices are not beai'ing full fniit, if we, as alumni, are not fully responding to the need for coiTecting current misconceptions about Notre Dame. The most current misconcep­tion pictures Notre Dame as an ath­letic nursery. The alumni and the old problem of emphasizing to the public at large the non-athletic side of our University is the aim of this article. 
We have many well-wishers, a large body of "synthetic alumni," from whom the University receives an ardent allegiance. Yet, few of them are well-informed about the in­stitution's educational ideals and aca­demic distinction. Naturally, we alumni are; that Notre Dame teams have been more than moderately suc­cessful is not the principal source of alumni loyalty. But what of the world at large? The formation of world opinion, the direction of its loyalty is determined largely by the press. Our alumni are gi^ateful for the publicity Notre Dame has re­ceived in this way. But unfortun­ately a too enthusiastic publicity re­garding our athletic teams has pro­duced an unfavorable reaction with respect to the true Notre Dame. 
NEWSPAPER REPORTS 
To illustrate, I refer specifically to an item which appeared only the other day in the sports column of one of New York's most influential news­papers. The sports writer, a man nationally read, was circulating the report that "Notre Dame has gone intellectual," that the i-aising of scho­lastic standards has "backfired on football." Now we have no quairel with this gentleman's reporting of what he took to be a fact. The point we wish to make is this: the implica­tions of "the article plainly foster the notion [ fliat Notre Dame has never been an' intellectual university, that only recently have scholastic stand­ai'ds been high. Moreover, it is a reflection upon that long line of Notre Dame athletes whose prowess in sports has been matched by their high academic attainment, for in the article is the insinuation that only low scholastic requirements enabled them to remain in school. This is the sort of thing that creates the false impression which so many well-inten-
PKESIDEXT BILL COTTER 

tioned people have about Notre Dame. It leads to the unjustifiable application of the epithet "football school." To offset this tendency to regard Notre Dame only from the standpoint of its athletic achieve­ments, whether past, present, or fu­ture, is a duty of our alumni. 
To seize eveiy opportunity to bring a true and complete picture of our University to the public eye, is our job. The most efi'ective way, of course, is to promote wherever pos­sible the right sort of publicity. An example of this appeared recently in another of New York's leading jour­nals. The appointment of the re­nowned Canon Le Maitre to the fac­ulty was mentioned together with a brief sketch of his work. .41so named were other noted scholars who are to be at the University this year to­gether with mention of the fact that for the second consecutive year Notre Dame has had to turn away prospec­tive students in order to keep enroll­ment near the desirable 3,000 figure. Locally the item was well-received, and from the comments heard it brought the proper response from those outside the alumni body. 
Well knovra to our alumni are the historical facts about Notre Dame. When we reflect how colorful were the beginnings and early development of the University, it does not seem a difficult task to interest the public in the other side of Notre Dame. We do not lack material. The archives and library of Notre Dame are a ver­itable treasure house of culture, con­taining gems of literature and art, and documents of a historical value. Think what a wealth of romance and adventure there is behind the simple historical statement in the introduc­tory pages of the University's general catalogue! How deserving of recog­nition are Notre Dame's pioneer efforts, among Catholic institutions, in the fields of law and science, en­deavors which have contributed to the bar, lawyers of high principle, and to this country one of the most significant scientific achievements, the discoveries of Father Nieuwland. 
NOTRE DAME SPIRIT 
-Alongside this humble genius of chemistry, who was also a botanist and the founder of the Midland Nat­uralist, are ranged the names of other great scholars: men of science like Prof. -Albert Zahm and Prof. Jerome J. Greene, who pioneered with Marconi in the field of tele­graphic communication; men of let-tei-s like Father Daniel Hudson, founder and editor for half a cen­turj- of that unique Catholic weekly, The Ave Maria, Father John Cava­naugh, noted orator, Father Charles O'Donnell, poet, and Prof. Charles Phillips, playwright, biographer, crit­
ic. Not only Notre Dame alumni but the people of this country owe a debt of gratitude to such men for the dis­tinctive contributions they have made to American life and culture. Notre Dame was their inspiration; Notre Dame is our inspiration. We, Notre Dame men, can best pay our debt by securing for our school the recogni­tion which is her due. 
Conceived and reared in the hard­ship of poverty, tried by the fire which razed her original buildings to the ground, Notre Dame stands today still infused with the indomitable spirit of her founders and builders. They labored to implant in a pioneer wilderness the seed of Catholic edu­cation. In that same spirit of sacri­fice she labors today to spread the fruit of that seed over the breadth of the land. Scarcely a hundred years old, yet possessing the traditions of t\venty centuries of Christian culture, Notre Dame goes on moulding young men according to the ideal so aptly 
(ContiniitHl on Pase 68) 


Hughes President of N.C.A.F. 
Armstrong Chosen Vice-President; 
Gould and Balfe 
Arthur J. Hughes, '11, Law '17, president of the Alumni Association in 1936-37, was elected president of the National Catholic Alumni Federa­tion at its eighth hiennial convention in Boston on October 30. 
The Federation, of wliich the Noti-e Dame Association is a charter mem­ber, represents 300,000 graduates of the Catholic men's colleges in the United States. 
James E. Armstrong, '25, was elected a vice-president of the Feder­ation at the same time, and Edward Gould, '23, Chicago, was re-elected national secretary, and John T. Balfe, '20, New York, was re-elected assistant secretary. 

One of the highlights of the Boston meeting was an addi-ess by Prof. Clarence E. "Pat" Manion, J.D. '22, of the University faculty, on the threats to American principles from without , emphasizing Communism and Fascism. 
Another highlight of the Boston convention was an exhibit, filling tvro rooms of the Statler, representing anti-God propaganda from Germany, Spain, Russia and other atheistic sources, in this country as well as abroad. The collection, still in for­mation, is the work of John V. Hinkel, '29, of the New York Times. 
 Re-Elected 
ARTHUR J. HUGHES 

Alumni who know the vast amount of time and energy which Art Hughes devoted to the Alumni Association's campaign against Communism last year, will rejoice in this recognition of his ser\'ice to Notre Dame and the enlistment of his ability in the wider field represented by the Fedei-ation. 
Alumni Registration for Drake and Navy 
The Drake game on October 2 and the Navy game on October 23 brought hundreds of alumni to the campus. The Alumni Office stafi* met Avith comparatively few of these, of course. Here are those few—^with regrets that there aren't many more! It need hardly be added that the Alumni Office is most happy lo wel­come those who arrive sufficiently early to get up to the Main Building before the home games. Open house —with limitations! 
Drake Ganre 

Jack Adams, '26, Montclair, New Jersey; John M. Dugan, '27, Kansas City, IGssouri; Tim Galvin, '16, Hammond, Indiana; Gerry Holland, '25, Detroit; Byron Kaiialey, '04, Chicago; Joe Norton, '24, Detroit; Tom Oakes, '31, Chicago; Eigney Sackley, '17, Chicago; Gil Schaefer, '26, Detroit; William E. Shea, '23, Dayton, Ohio. 

Navy Game 

Edward C. Brown, '99, Helena, Montana; Joseph Byrne, '15, Newark New Jersey; William E. Cotter, '13, New York City; James Deery, '10, Indianapolis; Joseph A. Durkin, '34, Newark, New Jersey; James E. Fa­gan, '34, Newark, New Jersey; Virgil Fagan, '25, Chicago; Herb Giorgio, '32, New York Citj'; Leo Grace, '25, Kokomo, Indiana; Franklyn Hoch­reiter, '35, Buffalo, New York; Jim Huxford, '21, Syracuse, New York; Paiil Johnson, '26, Kokomo, In­diana; Byron Kanaley, '04, Chicago; John Kanaley, '09, Chicago; James S. Kearns, '34, Chicago; Harry F. Kelly, '17, Detroit. 
Philip Lopresti, '27, Johnstown, Pennsylvania; W. C. McCarthy, '31, Kansas City, Missouri; Francis H. McKeever, '03, Chicago; Leo Mc­Laughlin, '32, New York; T. Arthur McManmon, '31, Lowell, Massachu­setts; John Miller, ex. '17, Akron, Ohio; John F. O'Connell, '13, Chica­go; Don P. O'Keefe, '03, Detroit; Lawrence O'Leary, '25, Gunnison, Colorado; Edward O'Neill, '26, Jack­son, Michigan; William Slader, '32, New York City; Andrew Sleigh, '27, Weston, West Virginia; Oscar F. Smith, '95, Rock Island, Illinois; Ar­thur W. Stace, '06, Ann Arbor, Mich­igan; Frank C. Walker, '09, New York City. 
Communications 
The following significant letter from Carl Ackerman, dean of the Graduate School of Journalism in Columbia University, New York City, was received by William E. Cotter, president of the Alumni Association: "Dear Bill: 

I had an interesting and profitable evening reading the Notre Dame ALUMKUS. I began with "The Presi­dent's Page," read the brief account of Father O'Hara's address over a newspaper o\vned radio station and then began to read the personal notes about the activities of your gradu­ates. If there are people who still think of Notre Dame largely in terms of football they should read the .A.LUMNUS. The spirit of Notre Dame which is so definitely a factor in the lives of her graduates, is most im­pressive because of what they are doing and their loyalty to their Alma Mater. Your article w^as comprehen­sive, clear and direct. There is no better cause than Christian culture and no better omen of the future of our country than the devotion of men and women to this ideal. Stock mar­kets and business may fluctuate but the Christian spirit marches on. Some day the world will be safe for Christianity because institutions like Notre Dame and Earlham never per­mit their faith to fluctuate! 
Best wishes for a happy and suc­cessful academic year. Regards, (Signed) CARL" 
DIREQORS MEET 

Saturday, October 23, the board of directors of the Alumni Association met at the University. Present were President William E. Cotter, vice-president Harry Kelly, directors James E. Deery, Joseph M. Byi-ne and Frank McKeever, secretaries Dooley and Armstrong. University Comptroller F. W. Lloyd was also present. 
The bulk of the meeting was de­voted to discussion of the program of the Association. 
In view of the financial difficulties encountered, and in view of the nec­essity for rapid development to meet the challenge of the Notre Dame Cen­tennial, the directors considered a plan or re-organization. It was moved to refer this plan to the district gov­ernors and the local clubs before taking definite action. 
The plan will intensify the pres­ent program of the Association, add several interesting features, an d should make the Association a much more vital factor in the continuing expansion of the Greater Notre Dame. 
November, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 


» > »



SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI 
JOHN J. BRUST, '34, of Milwaukee, " was recently announced as a win­ner of an Edward Langley scholar­ship of the American Institute of Architects for the study of architec­ture in Europe in 1937-38. John was proposed by Richard Philipp, Mil­waukee architect, as a candidate of 
JOHN- J. BHUST 

"exceedingly fine chai-acter, excellent training and exceptional talents, who will take his place among the best men of his generation in his profes­sion.'" He is already in Europe. 
After finishing at Notre Dame in 1934, John spent a year and a half in further architectural study at Catholi c University, Washington, 
D.C. and was also, for part of that time, in the service of the federal government as a junior architect. He is now associated with his father Peter, and his brother, Paul, '28, in an architectural firm in Milwaukee. 
TV/TAX ABLER, of South Bend, a ^^ student at Notre Dame in the late '80s, is the new president of the Indiana Retail. Clothiers, Inc. follow-, ing that organization's convention in Indianapolis in October. It need hardly be said for Notre Dame men that Mr. Adler is proprietor of one of South Bend's largest stores. 
R
AY "BUTCH" WHIPPLE, ex. '17, Springfield, Illinois, for the sec­ond consecutive year won the national golf championship of the American Legion at the recent convention in New York City. TX^ALTER M. LANGFORD, '30, 
' ' South Bend, assistant professor of Spanish in the University, is the author of an article on Bernardo del Carpio, which appears in the October issue of HtKpana, the organ of the American Association of Teachers of Spanish. Walt's writings have also appeared recently in the Catholic World and in the Magnificat. In the former, the article was entitled "The Church in Mexico Today" and in the latter, "San Felipe de Jesus," who was a Mexican saint of the thir­teenth century and one of the two American-bom saints. 
Walt received his master's degree with honors at the end of the recent summer session of the National Uni­versity of Slexico in Mexico City. 
"DAYMOND J. KELLY, ex., '15, -'•'' corporation counsel of the city of Detroit, finished a close second in the contest for the national commander-ship of the American Legion at the New York convention. Ray had trav­eled nearly 50,000 miles in the past few months in support of his candi­dacy. When he stepped to the plat­form of the convention hall to make unanimous the election of his chief opponent, Daniel J. Doherty, of Bos­ton, he was given the most enthus­iastic ovation of the gathering. Ac-
RAYSIOND J. KELLY 

cording to the New York Times, he "was commonly recognized as the candidate of the rank-and-file Leg­ionnaires." 
•piCHARD T. SULLIVAN, '30, in­-'•*' structor in English at Notre Dame, is the author of "The Paper Costume," a short story appearing in the October issue of Scribner's. Dick's present appearance in a leading mag­azine follows previous appearances in fiction in the Atlantic Monthly, 
RICHARD T . SULLIVAN 

Commonweal, Columbia, the Catholic World, the New Republic and other magazines. In addition, Dick has written widely for radio and is a poet of distinction. 
•piR.A.NCIS WALLACE, '23, one of ^ the best known writers of the day, is before his large public again with a new novel of football, "Razzle-Dazzle." .The first- installment of it will appear in the Saturday Evening Post of November 6. Earlier in the fall the Post carried Prank's "Pig­skin Preview," an article summariz­ing the outlook in college football for 1937. His eariier Post story, "Kid Galahad," was turned into an out­standing movie of the past year. 
E
LMER UVYDEN, '25, of Notre Dame, combined with Charles Moran, of the Newark Star-Eagle, to produce the article, "I'm Following Rockne," which will appear in the Saturday Evening Post of November 6. With Frank Wallace's new serial beginning in the same issue of the Post, there will be plenty of Notre Dame writing spread over the land within a few days. ­
42 The Notre Dame Alumnus November 1937 
BY JOSEPH S. PETRI7Z. '32 
» » » 

Director of Athletic Publicity 

ATHLETICS 
Four down and five to go, reads the menu for Notre Dame's football team as the ALUMXUS gallops to press. 
The Irish have had their moments —good and bad—in those first four games, but in our ever-optimistic and hopeful opinion, most of the bad mo­ments are behind them. This is not to say that Notre Dame will vdn from Minnesota, Pittsburgh, Army, Northwestern, and Southern Cali­fornia. 
No team could go through that row without defeat, we believe, unless it would be Pitt. In fact we think Pitt will be the outstanding unbeaten major team of the year—and one of the big reasons will be that Pitt doesn't have to play Pitt. 
We can't put the finger on anyone in particular for the alleged disap­pointments of the early half of the schedule, nor shall we try to. Maybe it's our innate naivete, but we believe that the Fighting Irish were "putting out" at every minute of every game. They were fighting and trying as best the}' could, and we believe no apology is necessary for their tie with Illinois and defeat at the hands of Carnegie Tech. 
We have heard no complaint about the Drake and Navy games, which is why we may appear to be emphasiz­ing the defeat and tie more than is necessary. 


Notre Dame 21, Drake 0 
Jack McCarthy's fine hand did much to fashion Notre Dame's open­ing game victory over a strong Drake eleven. And when we say "strong Drake eleven" we mean just that. Drake had won two games before the Notre Dame game, and it has won three since then. Marchie Schwartz's Creighton team is the only one which has held the Drakes to fewer than 
2.5 points. 
But the Irish, driving well in the 
line, both on offense and defense, 
had little trouble winning. Nevin 
(Bunny) McCormick, the pride of 
Livermore, Calif., and as nifty a run­
ning back as this campus has seen 
for years, grabbed a short pass from 
McCarthy for the first touchdown. 
McCarthy scored the second on an 
85-yard run, one of those perfect 
plays on which he didn't have to do 
much dodging, but just broke clear 
and used his amazing speed. McCar­
thy intercepted a Drake pass to set 
up the third touchdown, which was 
scored by Mario (Motts) Tonelli, aft­
er Motts had eaten up most of the 
37 yards between the site of the in­
terception and the goal line. 
The tip-off on what was to come was given, deceitfully enough, not by the touchdowns, but by the touch­downs which were not scored. Four scoring opportunities were thrown to the winds—BEFORE the first touch­down was scored, thus when a score really meant something. 

Notre Dame 0, Illinois 0 
We do not hold with those who rushed to Notre Dame's defense after the Illinois game—on numerous and varied counts. The Irish had the worst of the breaks — two fumbled punts, a penalty which nullified Lou Zontini's 33-yard run, passes which just missed fire when the Irish manu­factured a first down for themselves on Illinois 12-yard line. These things are all part of the game. 
But to place the "blame" for the tie at the door of the administration for stiffening eligibility requirements, or to place the "blame" on Notre Dame's quarterbacks is to imply very strongly that Illinois wasn't much of a football team. Our point is that Illinois was a great defensive team and a daring offensive team the day it played the Irish. 
Coach Bob Zuppke — you've all heard of him?—is celebrating his 25th anniversary as coach at Illinois. He has a reputation for winning the one big game a year he points for, and he has turned in major upsets season after season. He admitted the middle of last summer that he was pointing his season and his team for the Notre Dame game. His men were fired to the greatest emotional height they will reach this season. One scout from one of Notre Darnels opponent schools said he had never seen a team fight as hard as Illinois fought—and the %'ery team he works for is noted for its vicious courage. 
So why not a little more credit to a great Fighting Illinois team, and a little less censure of Notre Dame's gallant but ine.\perienced eleven? Illinois is on the Notre Dame sched­ule through 1942, with the e.\ception of 1939, and I am sure that all of you welcome the addition. 


Carnegie Tech 9, N. D. 7 
Again, w-hen Notre Dame played Carnegie Tech, it was a case of Tecli being ready, or pointing for the Irish in a game which the Irish couldn't afford to emphasize over all others. Notre Dame must take its games from week to week, in stride. Looking back on a season, we can see where the team reached great emotional heights, but looking ahead, who is to say—^""This is the game we must win." 
It still means something — and it probably always will—to beat Notre Dame. And it meant enough to Tech's hard luck team that the Tartans cap­italized on their only two scoring chances. Coach Bill Kern, in his first year as the Skibos' coach, showed the benefits of his years as a Pitt scout, spying on the Irish, by having his quarterback call for a pass into a defensive territory weak against passes the minute the shock troops took the field for the second quarter. 

KUHARICH 

MCCARTHY BEINOR C4IT. ZWGRS 
November, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 43 
The pass, Condit to Matelan, went for nearly 50 yards and placed the ball on the Irish 3-yard line. Leo Napotnik, fullback, plunged over for the Tech touchdowTi. 
Shortly later, the Irish untracked themselves and Jack McCarthy tossed a touchdown pass to Bunny McCor­mick. Dauntless Andy Puplis, who has yet this year to miss an extra point after touchown, did as expected, and the Irish led, 7 to 6. 
While the Irish were tossing away three more scoring opportunities— which estimate doesn't give full credit to Tech's furious defensive play—the Tartans scored again as a result of a more or less flukey inci­dent. One of Lou Zontini's passes was partially blocked by a Tech line­man. Another Tech lineman, Kaw­chak, trundling along near the scrim­mage line, suddenly found the ball in his arms, and he instinctively headed goalward. Although he had the pro­tection of four blockers, he was un­able to elude Zontini, who recovered and tackled him from behind, after being knocked to the ground. The tackle occurred on the 14-yard line. 
Three plays put the ball on the 6­yard line, then Coleman Kopcsak, of the .\rmy Kopcsaks, booted the field goal which won, 9 to 7. 
Notre Dame 9, Navy 7 

There was more gloom on the cam­pus after the 9 to 7 Tech victory than we've seen in some years. The varsity was insulted by the freshmen in scrimmage and made to like it; the papers, fair weather fans, and even Clashmore Mike added to the ignominy of the footballers. Clash-more Mike, who is our Irish Terrier mascot, took a 24-hour leave of ab­sence three days before the Navy game, and one and all said that he had taken his life. He was found pacing the shores of Lake St. Joseph. 
At any rate, after Navy's power attack had pushed Notre Dame down the field and through the heavily-falling snow for 30 minutes, Mike was introduced to Navy's goat. Bill; it took two handlers to restrain Mike, in his fury, from eating Bill alive. And some of this spirit infected the 
FOOTBALL TICKETS 

Once again, the Alumni Office has received its quota of honest queries concerning the apparent injustices in the allotment of football tickets, and the usual much smaller number of anonymous letters that are annoying if not representative. 
Not much can be said. You ought to be familiar with the machinery of ordering tickets. Many alumni failed to read, not the smalt type but the bold face type in which it was stated that alumni preference would be ex­tended to September 15 UNLESS THERE WAS A SELLOUT BEFORE THAT DATE. 
Army tickets were sold out Sep­tember 2. The game is considered Arn:y's hon:e game, each year, and Army has the distribution of almost two-thirds of the Yankee Stadium tickets. 
Minnesota capitalized on the home schedule there to sell 21,000 season tickets, n:any of which were in the section usually allotted to the visiting team's followers. The result w^as that Notre lyame had 2,000 tickets between the 50-yard line and the goal line, a supply which was sold out on August 1, the opening day of sale. The en­tire Notre Dame allotment of 8,000 was exhausted on August 10. 
On top of that, the University sanctioned the selection of the Min­nesota game by the students as the student trip, and a block of the seats between the 40 and 20 yard lines had to be removed from the limited 2,000 for these students. 
There are the facts, in the two games that seem to have aroused the most passionate outbursts. 
—JIM ARMSTRONG. 

varsity when it returned for the sec­ond half. 
Navy got a touchdown and an ex­tra point, both by Wood, in the first half, after the Middies had recovered Joe Thesing's fumble on the Irish 9-yard line. Na\-y had made 6 first downs to 3, four of the six coming on the opening march after the kick­off. The Midshipmen had piled up 104 yards from scrimmage. 
To show what a complete reversal of form the final chukkers presented, it need only be considered that Notre Dame got 9 points, that Navy got no first down, as compared with six for Notre Dame, and that the Middies aggregate from scrimmage was 11 yards. 
Jack McCarthy scored on a 33-yard run—as closely as we could tell on the snow blanketed field—on a per­fect play through his own right guard. Everyone was mopped up ex­cept Lera Cooke, Navy safety man who had featured the first half at­tack. McCarthy simply ran away from him with speed which was un­believable, considering the slippery footing. Andy Puplis, who had been relieved a few^ minutes before by Bill Hofer, \yas rushed into action to con­vert— and convert he did, with a lovely low, skimming thing-of-beanty placement to tie the score at 7-all. 
It was apparent by this time that if the game went far enough Notre Dame would win; but it seemed, too, that Navy might avert disaster for 13 minutes. Andy Puplis took care of matters, finally, when he raced 53 yards with a Navy punt before he was caught on the 9-yard line. 
Three running plays left the ball on Navy's 3-yard stripe, squarely in front of the goal posts. The crowd silently begged for a field goal at­tempt. But Puplis had other plans. He knew there were but three min­utes remaining. He knew that Navy might recover a blocked kick with disastrous results, and that if the field goal missed, Navy would have the ball out on its 20-yard line, where it could run the ball. Even a Notre Dame fumble on a running play— which is what happened when Navy tackled McCormick hard and recov­ered on the 4-yard line—^would leave Na\-y in the embarrassing position of having to punt a wet, heavy ball immediately. 
This Navy tried to do. Fincher's low pass to McFarland eluded the latter momentarily. Puplis knew that Chuck Sweeney had rushed the life out of Cooke on four punts immedi-
MCCOBMICK SKOGLUND PDPUS 
RUETZ 

ately preceding this one, and Sween­ey came through again. Just as Cooke got control of the ball and took his iirst step, Sweeney piled into him and bore him to the ground for the safety which won the ball game. 
Irish fight and spirit in this second half comeback, after a gloomy first half, was heartening to all Irish sup­porters in the stands. Whether this same spirit will be enough to win or come closely to victory in the remain­ing games we can't say—but the spirit will be there. 
Don't look now, but the said "re­maining games" are with Minnesota, Pittsburgh, Army, Northwestern, and Southern California. 
BASKETBALL 
A 23-game schedule for Notre Dame's 1937-38 basketball team has been announced by Director of Ath­letics Elmer F. Layden. 
The Irish , defending national champions, will again meet the cream of the nation's hardwood teams. The schedule calls for games with such leaders as Wisconsin, Northwestei-n, Illinois, Minnesota, Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Pittsbui^h, Butler, Mar­quette, Colgate, and N.Y.U. 
Coach George Keogan has his squad back, practically intact, from last year. Only two monogram men, both reserves, were graduated. They are John DeMots, center, and Red Allen, guard. 
Hiss tarting combination of Capt. Ray Meyer and JohnMoir, fonvards; Paul Nowak, center; Earl Brown, Jr., and Tommy Wuko%-its, guards, has not been affected by gi-aduation. -Al­most his entire second team is back, also. 
A game for Dec. 22 will be booked at a later date. Following is the schedule: 
Dec. 1—Columbia college at N.D. Dec 4 Ball State Teachers at N.D. Dec. 8—Western State 
(Kalamazoo) at N.D. Dec. 13—Wisconsin at N.D. Dec 18—^Northwestern at N.D. Dec 22—Pending Dec 28 Illinois at Urbana Dec 31—Northwrestern at Evanston 
Jan. 4 Minnesota at Minneapolis Jan. 8—Penn'a. at Philadelphia Jan. 10—Canlsius at BuETalo Jan. IS Kentucky at N.D. 
Jan. 19—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh 
Jan. 22—Butler at N.D. 
Feb. 1—St. Louis U. at N.D. 
Feb. 5—Pittsburgh at N.D. 
Feb. 9—Marquette at Milwaukee 
Feb. 14 Butler at Indianapolis 
Feb. 21—Michigan State at N.D. Feb. 25—^New York U. at New York Feb. 26—Colgate at Albany-Mar. 4 Marquette at N.D. 
Mar. 11—Detroit U. at Detroit 
COMMUNIST THREAT 
(ContinuLKl from Page 38) 

League Council. Comte St.-Aulaire was at San Sebastian during the meeting of the League Council in 1920. ilis instructions were never to discuss Poland, 'ihe Soviet had in­vaded Poland, and eveiy member of the League exxiected that Warsaw would fall, and that the destruction of Poland would be followed by Com­munist risings in Germany. Had War­saw fallen, Europe might be Com­munist today, it was the most criti­cal hour for European civilization since the Turks were defeated be­neath the walls of Vienna. The insti-uctions to the League delegates and Council members not to mention the name of Poland were most scrup­ulously obsei-ved. "The only apposite remark," writes Comte St.-Aulaire, "was that which I heard during one of the numerous banquets offered to the Council of the League, for there was no cessation of festivities, whilst one of its members was suffering martyrdom. The windows of the ban­queting hall were open upon the Bay of St. Sebastian glittering in the sun­light. 'There,' said a delegate, 'is a basin fit for the hand of the colossal Pontius Pilate we are.' Comte St.-Aulaire has no difficulty in proving that the frontier incidents and minor disputes in second-class powers which the League claims to have settled could have been disposed of without advertisement and without fuss by the old diplomacy across a table. 
Russian Aeroplane Bases 

Mr. Wyndham Lewis has no diffi­culty in enforcing Comte St.-Aulaire's thesis of the two scales of justice used by the League for the friends and for the enemies of Soviet Russia. The Slovak National Council repre­sents one of the oppressed minorities in Czechoslovakia recently brought to the attention of the League the ex­istence of Russian aeroplane bases which are being rapidly organized throughout Czechoslovakia. 
"These Slovaks," writes Mr. Lewis, "it is interesting to note, proWde one of the major problems at Geneva for the ijowers that be. They are a stand­ing scandal. For, invariably, just as one of the weakest countries is being hectored in a most edifying harangue 
(to be quoted next morning in all the official, and semi-official, organs of La Grande Presse) and told that this intolerable treatment of its minorities must cease at once, or it will be put under merciless embargo by sanctions, by blockade, and finally be wiped out like termites, just as all this is going on there wU be an un­seemly commotion, and the Slovak minority delegation will, to every­one's consternation, turn up in force. Swiftly it has to be headed off by scandalized ushers, and parked some­where out of sight. Everyone knows what it is there for. It is there, naturally, to register its bitter and monotonous protest against the treat­ment of the Slovak minority by the Czechs." 
League of Nations 

Thank God the United States is not a member of the League of Nations. American isolation helps to prevent war in Europe. For I am profoundly thankful that the United States is not a member of the League of Nations. I regard the League as a sinister anti-Christian institution and I regret the ease with which Com­munists have succeeded in secur­ing the alliance of well-meaning but ill-informed Christian men on behalf of a League which is today a menace not only to Christianity, but to Peace. The American isolation is wel­comed by peace lovers. The least suggestion that the States are pre­pared to throw their weight on the side of "peace loving democi-acies" is welcomed with joy by Moscow for Moscow still hopes to embroil the States in a war against Fascism. 
Avoiding Smugness 

The "peace loving democracies" should avoid the sin of smugness. Why is Great Britain "peace loving?" Not because it is a democracy, but because it has nothing to gain from war. It has successfully occupied as much of the earth's surface as it can possibly hope to retain. Why are the "United States" peace lo\'ing. Because they have nothing to gain from war. Why is Gennany restive? Because President Wilson broke the treaty under which the Germans laid down their arms, and condoned a monstrous peace which handed mil­lions of Germans over to other nations. Read the "Fourteen Points" which were accepted, as the basis for the Annistice and the four additional points and ask yourself whether those who made that Treaty have any light to preach at Germany and Italy about the sanctity of treaties. 
Wilson would have received enthu­siastic backing from British Liberals had he insisted on a fair and decent peace. He could have saved the peace of Europe had he possessed the necessarily moral courage. Great Britain made no concession to the Gennany that was governed by Mod­erates and Liberals. It is the "peace loving democracies" who should be doing penance today for the Nazi regime, for that regime would never have come into power but for the tragic dereliction of Versailles. 
But, at least we can avoid being dragged into a war at the bequest of Moscow in order to overthrow by force a regime for whose existence we are morally responsible. 
November, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
By JOHN J. LECHNER, '37 

CAMPUS NOTES 
REBIRTH OF SPIRIT 
Man and boy we've been around this campus for nigh onto six years but never have we seen an entii-e Notre Dame student body bristle with spirit following the embarrass­ments experienced by the football team at Illinois and Carnegie Tech. Scott Reardon, alert president of the 
S. A. C, arranged for the printing and distribution of triangular "Beat Navy" placards. On bulletin boards appeared student-inspired admoni­tions: "Take five steps and on the sixth let go with a BEAT NAVY!" To add to the general hurly burly, Clashmore Mike, the Scotch terrier mascot, decided to escape from his trainer, the venerable gym custodian, Dan Hanley. Perhaps the presence of a "Navy" goat tethered in front of the Dining Hall by the S.A.C. as a reminder of the impending game earned Mike to lose his poise. Mike was found, however. In the words of Joe Petritz, the demon sports pub­licist: 
"Mike forsook the campus last night and x-emained absent most of today. Reason for his disappearance was not settled by his discovery this afternoon pacing the shores of St. Joseph's lake on the campus. Wheth­er he contemplated drowning himself in view^ of the 9 to 7 defeat by Car­negie Tech will never be known." 
With the spirit revived on the cam­pus, no matter how the rest of the season turns out, Notre Dame alum­ni may rest assured that those up in the stands during the home games and those remaining behind when the team goes abroad will be down there with the team helping get that extra yard. 
SPIRIT (Continued) It's easy enough to have the old spirit, Notre Dame or othenvise, when the band is playing, the crowd yelling, and a foe to be met and conquered. But what if the foe to battle is yourself—and darkness? Mario J. Pieroni, Muncie, Indiana, is daily answering that question here on the Notre Dame campus. Mario is blind, has been since the age of four. He has already earned a de­gree with honoi-s at Ball State Teacher's college in Muncie, Indiana, Mario is studying law at Notre Dame, a course unusually difficult for a blind person since so much reading is necessary. 
To overcome this difficulty four of Mario's classmates act as readers for nim. Note-taking is class is accom­plished with the use of a Braille slate. 
To and from his room he walks un­aided, blond head held high in the air, cane swinging jauntily on arm. He walks in a straight line without hesitance. In walking about a build­ing which he knows variations of the echoes of his footsteps warn him of the pro.ximity of staire. A further check is a draft about the ankles when passing a cross coiTidor. 
We have the pleasure of being in one of Mr. Pieroni's classes. His answere are responsive, his questions clear and incisive. He will succeed at Notre Dame, not because of a handicap which might cause "breaks" to be given because of it, but rather through the means of a fine mind motivated and disciplined by a spirit of which Notre Dame may well be proud. 
SEVEN FROM PITT 
/ News from Pittsburgh isn't always so pleasant with Carnegie Tech and the Panthers doing their best to keep Notre Dame rooters unhappy. The Pittsburgh O'Tooles, however, are something else again. Mr. and Mrs. James L. O'Toole, have been re­ceiving lettei's postmarked "Notre Dame, Indiana" all but one of the last 20 years. Si.x O'Toole's are grad­uated, with the last of the line, Bob, as Winchell would say, "On the verge." Jim started the ball rolling in 1917. He was followed by Chuck, John, Dick, Bill, Larry, and Bob in the order named. In addition to the seven Notre Dame O'Tooles, there are three O'Toole daughters. Elmer Layden, while coaching at Duquesne, 
called on the family one evening to visit John with whom he had gradu­ated in 1925. He was invited inside and told John that he was not at home. Elmer glanced about the liv­ing room wherein were assembled, at full strength, the O'Toole family. "I won't stay," he said hastily, "I'll drop in some other time when you're not having a party!" 
MARKED FOR STARDOM 
We dropped over to one of the "B" team's games this month. We saw a well-played and exciting game and something more. After one of the points after touchdown had been kicked into the stands a small boy lugged the leather do«"n the nearest ramp. A freshman manager playing catch with a football along the side­lines with a colleague gave chase. Undaunted by the hampering weight of a nifty Homburg and a heavy overcoat, he returned promptly with the ball. The small boy, presumably, was banished into exterior darkness. The youthful manager, whose enter­prise w-e noted, should meet the young man who placed the following notice on the Main Building: "Cicero Book For Sale! Complete With Pony!" 
THE MONTH IN BRIEF 
The Sophomore Cotillion was the most successful in years with 450 couples dancing (?) to the music of Reggie Childs and his orchestra. . . , Those in attendance received a dollar refund as they presented their ticket 
(Continued on Pase 55) 

Vieiving that terrific Illinois-Notre Dame struggle were in the front row: Arthur Cntts Willard, president of Illinois University; Governor Henry Homer of Illinois, and Father John F. O'Hara, president of Notre Dame. 
ALUMNI CLUBS . > > 
AKRON 
•Frank E. Steel, ex. '25, 327 Wildwood Ave­
nue, President; James E. Coulter, ex. '30. 
573 West Exchange Street. Secretary. 
ARKANSAS 
Burt U Bolierts. 1S26 Lincoln Ave., UtUe 
Rock, Ark-, Secretary. 
* 
BENGAL 
Rt Eev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C., 'OZ, 
Dacca. Bensal. India, President; Rev. J, J. 
Hennessey, C.S.C.. *02. Dacca. Bengal. India. 
Secretary. 
BERRIEN COUNTY (Miehig») Thomas Grimes. '34. 3.*> SDUth Third Street. 
Niles. Michigan. President: Sheridan Coolv. 
'32. c-o South Bend Tribune, 119 North 
Third Street. Niles. Michigan. Secretary. 

John Nicholson, Coach of track, was the guest of honor and chief speaker at the club's first dinner-meeting of the year on October 21 in the Four Flags Hotel in Niles. Nick presented the highlights of his European trip last summer as coach of a group of -A.merican track ath­letes who were sponsored by the 
A.A.U. in meets abroad. The Man­aging Editor accompanied the coach on the Niles journey and spoke brief­ly at the meeting. 
Outgoing President Gene O'Toole steered the club through the election of new oificers. These were the re­sults: president, Tommy Grimes, Niles; wee-president, Bill Desenberg, Buchanan; secretary, Sheridan Cook, Niles; treasurer, Louie Patton, Ben­ton Harbor. 
George Radawold, of Niles, ac­cordionist, presented a varied pro­gram and was the accompanist for community singing. Bob Franklin was appointed chairman of the next meeting, which is scheduled for Bu­chanan. 
Present at the meeting were: Tom Grimes, Sheridan Cook, Cap Grath­wol, Alan Johnson, Bill Downey, John Jauch, John Medo, John Mad­den, Moe Krinowitz, Pete Krajci, Jim Bookwalter, Fred Geideman, all of Niles; Gene O'Toole, Maurice Weber and Larry Krieger, of St. Joseph; Frank Deitle, of Benton Harbor; and Bob Franklin, of Buchanan. 
BOSTON Fred C. Solari. '33. Center St.. Pembroke. 
Mass., President; John J. Hanley, '34, 409 
Salem St, Medford. Mass.. Secretary: Paal 
McManus. '34, Fox & Hounds Club, Boston. 
Mass., Secretary. 
BUFFALO George K Doyle, Jr., '30. Liberty Bank 
Bids., President; Robert Ueaser, '34, Am­
herst Bee Co.. Main & Rock Sta., Wnliama­
ville. N. Y., Secretary. 

CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-nL) Frank J. Galvin. '23, First Trust Bids-
Hammond. President; Fred J. Sotman, Jr., 
'28. 5752 Erie Ave., Hammond. Secretary. 

CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) 
Edward J. Eckert, '33. 5 Lawnridse Ave., 
Albany. President: H. V. Canavan. '28, 254 
Patridge St., Albany, Secretary. 

Our club has been rather quiet since the summer, but the following is a report of the acti\'ities of some of our members: 
Edward Eckert is with the Uni­versal Credit Company. 
Thomas Farley is with the same company, and has recently been ap­pointed credit manager of the Albany branch. 
Francis Disney is Still working on the railroad. He has been riding around all summer in his new Pack­ard roadster with the top down. Spec­ulation is rife as to when he will put it up, and the betting is two to one that the event will occur at the sight of the first snowflake. Francis claims that the top is down to stay down, regardless of the weather. 
The teams of Larry O'Neil and Dan Cunha played to a scoreless tie the other day. Perhaps there is a moral to this. To lobby for Larry's hobby,—he is an ornithologist in his spare time. 
The club is again donating a Rocfc­ne Cup, and the local Catholic high school teams are now competing for it. 

Notre Dame and Colgate will play basketball here this winter, and a sell-out is expected. 
Harold V. Canavan. 

CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
DF. E. J. Hemes, '16, 1910 Oakland St., 
lousing. President; J. Harvey Gauthier,'30, 
Bark River, Mich., Secretary, 

CENTRAL NEW JERSEY 
Anthony V. Ceres. '28, Perth Amboy Nafl. 
Bank Bids., Perth Amboy, President: Jonu 
Liaicki, '31, 216 Water Street, Perth Amboy. 
Secretary. 

I regret that I couldn't submit any report for last month's ALUMNUS, my negligence could be considered excus­able as at that particular time I was on the .verge of becoming a proud father. Now that things have turned out beautifully, the beautiful part be­ing a baby girl, Maureen Jean, born September 13, you can expect a monthly report of the club's activ­ities. 
We held our annual Summer Dance at the Berkley Carteret in 
The Bostoti Club had this splendid gathering last Spritig. Father John McGinn, CS.C, was a special guest. 
November, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Asbury Park, and under the capable handling of Michael Balog and Ladd Lukats, the affair was a huge success. Plans were also made for a picnic, but we were rained out every day that it was to be held. 
The current activities are going over with a bang; the fellows are co­operating beautifully. Arrangements have been made for a Hard Times Dance to be held at the Sewaren Land and Water Club on November 10, at which time the drawing for the Notre Dame-Army tickets will be held. Russell Terrell, chairman of the aifair, states that from indica­tions the affair will also be a success. 
Here are some personal items: 
Dr. William Gadek is now resident doctor at St. Michael's Hospital in Newark, New Jersey. 
Don Lusardi has become a bene­dict, having married Miss Frances Moore, of Somerville, New Jersey, on June 23. 
Russell Terrell has returned from his stay in South America, and is now stationed at the Perth Amboy branch of the Anaconda Copper. 
Ladd Lukats is again dean of the Middlesex County Junior College. 
Stanley Kokowic and wife have moved to Niagara Falls, where he is employed by the Du Pont Film Com­pany. 
John £. Lisicki. 
CENTRAL OHIO 
Raymond J. Eichenlaub, *1Q, Hoster Realty Bldff., Columbus, President. 
CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA 
William J. McAIeer. '31, 1518 19lh Avenue. Altoona. Pa.. President: Edward F. Lee, '31, 210 13th Street, Alloona. Pa.. Secre­tary. 
* 
CHICAGO 
Francis J. Oelerich. Jr., '32, 864 Larrabee St. Chica^, President; George A. Brautx-Kan, '29, 111 W. Washineton St., Chicago, Secretary. 

On the occasion of the Notre Dame-Illinois luncheon at Mandel's Grill on the Tuesday preceding that football game, an announcement was made that a supper dance would be held Saturday night, November 20, in the Knickerbocker Hotel following the Northwestern game. 
Bill Drennan and Dick Oelerich have been chosen chairmen of this occasion and, from all early reports, we are assured of good food and swell music, coupled with the attrac­ion of $5.00 per couple. Bill and Dick are to be assisted in the distri­bution of tickets for the occasion by Cli6F Noonan, Dan O'Connor, Barry O'Keefe, Paul O'Toole, Jim Ronan, Emmet Burke, Joe Rigali, John E. Mahoney, Frank Downs and Tom Mc­Cabe; and, in the event you can't find any of the above available, your sec­retary will be pleased to accommo­date any and all demands. 
This occasion, being the first one of its kind for the season, each mem­ber is encouraged to be present for it. 
George Brautigan. 
CINCINNATI 
Frank H. Sweeney, ex. '17. Kemper Lane Hotel, President: aarence Brink, '31. 1308 Cryer Ave., Hyde Park, Secretary. 
CLEVELAND 
Georse Kerver, "20, 800 Hickox BIdir.. Presi­dent; Cornelius J. RnSne. '32, 303 Endid BIdff., Secretary. 
Again it's October and down on the City Hall steps, heard above the whistle of the chestnut vendor's stove is much talk of the elections coming. For Municipal Judges — Frank Cele­brezze and Don C Millar. Each faces stiff competition and yet each has strong backing. Roanding out direct interest the club has in affairs polit­ical is Judge Joe Smith's candidacy for election to the Board of Election. Here's hoping for the three of them! 
And in October it's football! Cleveland sport writers aren't wast­ing their words of praise for Tom Conler's 1937 John Carroll Blue Streaks. That Carroll team is a defi­nite threat to the Hig Four contend­ers, and we who follow the games are avidly awaiting the vengeance to be wrecked when Tom's sophomore backfield has had the experience of a first season to build on. Ably assist­ing Conley are big Gene Ober*t, Frankie Gaul, and Gomer Jones (Ohio State Ail-American). But the prowess of N.D. men in local football 

The 7937-1938 Board 
Very Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C, "88, Notre Dame, Ind Honorary President 
William E. Cotter, '13, New York City 
Harry F. Kelly, ' 17, Detroit, Michigan 

Charles A. Mooney, Jr., '26, Cleveland, Ohio James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame 
William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame James E. Deery, '10, Indianapolis, Ind 

Don P. O'Keefe, '03, Detroit, Michigan Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, New Jersey 
Francis H. McKeever, "03, Chicago, Illinois Arthur J. Hughes, 'I I,Chicago, Illinois To be elected—Member of 1937 Class 
 President  First Vice-President  Second Vice-President  Secretary-Treasurer  Assistant Secretary  Director to 1938  Director to 1939  Director to 1940  Director to 1941  Director to 1938 (ex-officio)  Director to 1938 

District Governors* and Lieutenant Goyemors 1937-38 
1.—No. Indiana and Soutliwestern Michigan: 

A. GORDON TAYLOR. '18. LaPorte, Indi­ana: JOSEPH P. DONAHUE. "11. South Bend, Indiana. 
2.—ChicaKo: JOHN M. MONTAGUE. '23. ChicaKO. Illinois: EDWARD W. GOULD. '23, Chicago, Illinois. 

3.—Ohio. W. Pennsylvania and West Va.: OTIS S. \VINCHESTER. '29. Oeveland. Ohio: EDWARD C. BYRNES. '25. PittsburEh. Pa. 
4.—Minnesota. "Wisconsin, Northern Mich.: HAROLD WATSON. '25. Minnaukee. Wis.: JOHN YELLAND. '30. Minneapolis, Minn. 
5.—Michigan (except the U.P. and S.W.] ; JOSEPH J. NORTON. '21. Detroit. Michican: HON. JOSEPH SANFORD. '21. Muskegon. Mich. 
6.—^New Jersey, Delaware. Md.. East Pa.. D.C.: JAMES D. HAYES. '17. Washington, D.C.: ROBERT PHELAN. '22. East Orange. 
N. J. 
-.—New York City: HENRY T. FREY. '30; LEO V. SrcLAUGHLIN. '32. 
8.—New York, (except New York City) : JOHN G. BYRNE. '23. Emslie Street. Buf­falo. New York: THOMAS V. DOLLARD. '21. Troy, New York. 
9.—New England: WALTER J. STAPLE­TON. '24. Bridgeport. Conn.: ROBERT W. POWERS. '29. Providence, R. I. 
10.—^Virjrinia. No. and So. Carolinas: THOMAS A. DAFFRON. '30. Richmond, Va.; REV. THOMAS MACKIN, '13, Spartans-burg. S. C. 
11.—Alabama. Georgia and Florida: JO­SEPH E. FITZPATKICK. '25. Miami. Fla.: CHARLES POWERS. '31. Savannah. Ga. 
* The governor is the first name in each 
12.—Kentucky. So. Ind.. Tenn.: JAUES A. McKEE. '93. Versailles. Ky.: MARION HEF­FERNAN, "28. Louisville. 
13.—La., Miss., and Ark.: WILLIAM H. MILLER. '30. Vicksburg. Miss.; CHARLES DE LA VBRGNE. '23. New Orleans. 

14.—Texas: M. E. WALTER. '14. Houston. Te-xas: CX-YDE E. BROnSSARD. '13, Bean­mont, Texas. 
IS.—Kan.. Mo.. Okla., So. HI.: DANIEL P. FOLEY. '23. Ft Leavenworth, Kmn.: N. P. SCHWARTZ. '33, Salina, Kan. 

16.—No. III.. Iowa. Nebraska: J. HENRY FANNAN. '24. Rocfcford. ID.: ELMER I. MOHAN, '17. Strcator, BL 
17.—Mont.. Wyo.. No. and So. Dak.: LEO 

F. CRAIG. "04. Sioux Falb. S. Dak.; ROB­ERT CUMMINS. '26, Mandan. N. Dak. 
18.—Utah and Colorado: RAYMOND M. HUMPHREYS. '17. Denver. Colo.; ROBERT 
A. DICK, '29. Denver. 
19.—So. Calif.. N. Mex.. Ariz.. W. Texas: ANTON R. HEBENSTREIT. '11. Albuquer­que. N. Me-t.: TERENCE B. COSGROVE, 
'06, Los Angeles. 
20.—No. Cal and Nevada: ROYAL BOSS­HARD. 'IT. San Francisco. Callt.: BERNARD 
J. ABROTT, '27. San Francisco. 
21.—Wash.. Ore., and Idaho: NATT Mo-DOUGAL. '00. Portland. Ore.; EMMETT LENIHAN, '17, Seattle, Wash. 
22.—Foreign: C. C. FITZGERALD. '94. Havana. Cuba: ANTONIO ROXAS. '26. Manila. P. I. 
 case. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus November 1937 
also looms on the scholastic field. 

•Joey Gavin has that scrappy Holy Name team, a much-feared organiza­tion. George Kozak is at John Adams High assisted by Ed Caldwell. John Adams whipped Latin and that speaks for itself here. Summing up the sea­son in another month we'll have great things to report. 
Those of us who saw the picture in the Lowellville, Ohio Times, wherein Father Jimmy Moran was pictured shirtless wrestling boulders into po­sition as a foundation for his parish church, were shocked. We decided that that hot-brick cleaning story about the great Father Sorin should never know a rival. Then there's that old adage "the hand that holds the parish purse should never swing a pick." The attraction to keep Fa­ther Moran's shirt on was generous­ly taken up. The offer: two tickets to the N.D. Army game, railroad fare, round trip Pullman, and $25.00. When Clayt Leroux, the instigator, limited the ticket sale to 750 he added definitely to its attractiveness. 
The day in September that Jack Elder happened into town on behalf of the Catholic Youth Movement brought the largest number seen in several months to the Monday Lunch­eon table at Chuck Rohr's. There, at the head of the table, was Club 
Chaplain Father Morarity with his 
assistant Father O'Brien, who is charged with directing local partici­pation in the national Catholic Youth Movement. There too, among the many more, were past and present, respectively, presidents of the club, Pat Canny and George Kerver. 
The tattered, bedraggled and most unreliable old membership list is undergoing renovation. Membership Secretary Karl Martersteck assisted by Jim Dubbs, Jr., has undertaken the task; object: to correct addresses thus assuring delivery of such prop­aganda as from time to time is dis­persed; hope: to get a bigger and bigger turn-out at club affairs. (By the way when's the next, GK?) But don't confuse the purpose; Treasurer Dutch O'Day has that dues problem all to himself. So you'll all be get­ting a buzz from Karl or Jim con­cerning your address and sundrj- per­sonal habits. 
Congratulations to the Sandusky group, who have formed their own cliib. Down there, we readily recall are Judge Savord, Frank O'Hara, George Wagner, and the Murray*. No longer in Sandusky and often seen in Cleveland, is Neil Ebert who's the son in Ebert & Son, Norwalk's Buick agents. 
Since Qctober has been suggested, one might well call Chuck Kaiser at Lakewood Coal & Coke or Tom or John Kiener at Kiener Coa] for that soon-to-be needed supply. On the east side, John says there's Kiener's Vi'hale Coal Co. 
Names: Paul Franz won't let a lit­tle matter like passing the Ohio Bar take him from Apex Electric. Busy with his plan of sharing the cost of hospitalization, if and when, is John Begley. One wonders about this problem hearing that Doctor Dolly Gannon surrendered his appendix a couple weeks ago. Another doctor in our midst, John Victoryn, was recent­ly appointed to the surgical • staff at 
U.S. Steel. Which reminds us that industrial engineer Frank Belting is seen do^\•n town more often since his going with American Steel and Wire. 
Jack Wadden, to whom credit is due for not talking about California sunshine, is regularly at the Monday table. Jack and Frank Poelking are connected with rival investment sav­ings companies. John Gallagher is no longer at Morris Plan's legal de­partment, having gone for general practice purposes into the Union Trust Building. Those wondering about Tommy Yarr are delighted to learn of his success in Chicago. Cor­rection: Jim Callaghan is selling chemicals, having left May's October 1. 
About that Butler family: Joe and his dad, Frank, Sr., are officers of the security house, Lawrence Cook, Inc.; Bob Butler's assistant passenger agent for the United Air Lines here; Al and Charles are back at school. In the prepai-ation of cases Johnny Butler is unexcelled out at the Coun­ty Prosecutor's and that's on author­ity of both the Plain Dealer and Press. 
These of us have recently married: Cy Caldwell to Miss Laura Irwin; Dick Mahoney to Miss Janet Stender; John Penote to Miss Estelle Edel. To them all, congrratulations! 
Seen in town was Jim Crowley who favored Don Miller with a great talk at the Democratic Clam Bake. Back in town from the world series, Dan Duffy hurried right on down to the state capital where business keeps him most of the time. That fellow you saw towering over Gene Oberst a few weeks ago was Gene's brother, Al Oberst, '06, from Marysville, Ken­tucky. Art Becvar, who left Cleve­land for Columbus and further work as a commercial artist, was here for a few days. Also here for a visit was Bob Colgan who serves the Raymond Concrete Pile Company in its New York City office. 
Calling a halt, only after assuring you that there'll be much to say in another month, what with holiday time in the offing and a promised party for Thanksgiving time! How about it, GK? 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
Waiiam A. Hurley, '28, 70 Montrose St. Spriusfield. Hass.. President; Frsneis A. Aheam, '27, CK> Hartford Times, Hartford, Conn., Secretary. 
* 

DALLAS James P. Swift. '2t, 1202 Soathvrestera Life Bids., Dallas, President; Franda A. HcGul­lonsh, '30, 917 First National Bank Bids.. Dallas, Secretary. 
DAYTON 
Ensene Mayl, "24. 400 Irvins Ave., Presi­dent ; William Cronin, '29, 418 Cratton Ave., Secretary. 
* 

DENVER 
Robert A. Dirk. '29. 9.10 Marion SUcct. 
Telephone Bldi;.. President: Harry Lawrence, 
*29. 1932 Broadway, Secretary. 

We have been very busy here getting some 425 Notre Dame fol­lowers off on three football trips— the first one to the N.D.-Minnesota game, then to Notre Dame to see the Pitt game, and finally to see the Northwestern game. Everything is going along fine and we are assured of success with these efforts. 
Some of the boys who w^ill be able to make these trips are Bob Dick, 
Bill Dick, Frank Conway, Louis Hough, Jim Hanlon, Ed Mansfield, Charles Haskell, Matt McEnriry, Fred Gusherst, Ed Sheehey, Bart O'Hara, Tom Kassis, Bob Fox, and, 
of course, yours truly. Also, many of the dads and mothers of present students, and many prospects for the future. The rest of the party will be made up of other good Notre Dame boosters. 
I wish to take this opportunity of thanking Jim Armstrong and his of­fice for the help given us in our efforts and also Art Haley and his office. We only hope that our efforts will accomplish in a way the desired effect of spreading the popularity and loyalty of Notre Dame. 
Harry Lawrence. 
* 

DETROIT 
Gilbert F. Schacfer. '26, 17380 Monica, Pres­ident: John \V. Brennan. *27, 632 Fisher BIdjr., Secretary. 

The club was to have a meeting on October 4 in the University Club to discuss special trains to the Pitt and the Southern Cal games and the club's part in the Victory Dinner for the noted Herbert Mendelssohn, fa­mous owner of the boat "Notre Dame." 
* 

DES MOINES 
Harry O'Boyle. '27, 2801 Grand Ave.. Presi­dent: Hicbard Hyde. '36, 678 26tli St., Secretary. 
• 

DUBUQUE 
C
 I. KimjewaU, '16, 321 Bank b Insorasoe Bids., President; Benry L TrtaMe. '24, 18* 

S.
 Booth St., Secretary. 


* 

EASTERN INDIANA 
Thomas A. Csnnon. '33, 401 Wysor Bids.. Honeie, Ind., President; Alvis E. Granser, ex. '31. 617 S. Jefferson St, Hatford Oty, Ind,, Secretary. 

November, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Leo R. Mclntyre, "28, Bethlehem, President! Ernest L. 'Wnhelm. '2T. New Jeraey Zine Co., Research DepL, Palraerton, Secretary. 

ERIE. PENNSYLVANIA 
Charles J, 'Wittnian, '31, 621 Schenley Dr.. President: •WUIiam K. Bayer, '36, 724 W. 10th St.. Secretary. 

FLINT (Michigan) 
Stephen J. Roth, '31, 723 Union Industrial Blda., President: Donald F. MacDonald. '31, 1631 W, Court St., Secretary. 

FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 
Edward S. Sullivan, '24, 125 E. Suttcnfidd St.. President: Maurice J. DeWald, '33. 241B Huburtus St, Secretary. 

Last week-end we celebrated the opening of the newly acquired K. C. Building. The club now has a beau­tiful home of its own. Notre Dame men played very prominent parts in the opening. Saturday night, Octo­ber 9, Ed Sullivan, '24, was chairman of the opening dance which was a most successful affair. Sunday even­ing a "Casey" party was held. Mon­day evening was open house for all membei-s old, new, charter and pros­pective members. At this meeting the speakei-s of the evening were all N. 
D. men. First of all was Past Grand 
Knight Fred D. Shippman, '30, who 
was chairman of the affair. He next introduced Frank Hogan, '02, who gave a verj-fine address of welcome and gratitude. He has been a member for 30 yeai-s. Next on the program was Byron Hayes, '09. He also gave a brilliant address. Henry Hasley, '28, past district deputy, also gave a brief talk. Later on the program the K. of C. Club broadcasted a "Co­lumbus Day" progi-am. Norb Shen­kel, '34, and M. J. DeWald are mem­bers of the Glee Club. 
Enclosed find clipping of a con­tinuation of last year's anti-Com­munistic lectui-es. These are the out­growth of the alumni work. 
Maurice J. DeWald. 

[Eds' note: The clipping concerned the 1937-38 lecture series sponsored by the United Catholic Societies of Fort WajTie of which the Notre Dame club is an active unit. Such notable figures as Arnold Lunn, of Notre Dame, Msgr. Fulton Sheen and Dr. Mortimer Adier are to be speakers in the series.] 
GOGEBIC RANGE (Michigan) 
Roijert O'CoJIashan, ex, '16, Gosrebic Na­tional Bank, Iponwood, President: FVancm 
I. Vukovich, '35, Ridge St., Ironwood. Mich., Secretary, 
GRAND RAPIDS 
Geonte JE. Ludwis:, '25, 328 Glcnhaven Ave., 
N. W., President: Raymond J. Bontnl, '27, .607 Atwood, N.E., Secretary. 
GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN 
John Clancy, ex. '35, 525 S. Clay Street, Secretary. 
GREATER LOUISVILLE 
John Bannon, '32, 2011 Sherwood Ave., Louisville, President; Raymond Naber, '33, 417 S. Western Parkway, Louisville, Secre­tary. 

HAMILTON, OHIO 
M O. Bums, '86, 338 S. Second St. Presi­dent: Marc A. Piehrer, '27, 701 Rentschler Bid?., Secretary. 
* 

HARRISBURG 
Joseph Farrell, "15, 32 North 27th Street. Camp Hill, Pa., President: Robert M. John­ston, '33. City Chemist, Harrisburg, Pa., Secretary. 

On October 4 we tried a little dif­ferent stunt that proved to be quite successful. The Notre Dame Club of Harrisburgh asked the members of the Villanova alumni to sit in on one of our meetings. About 35 men were present at Piei-re's Villa for a "sea food" dinner and meeting. 
President Joe Farrell took charge, introducing Pat Reagen, V.N. '16, well-known football official. Pat gave a splendid talk on football, telling us the inside stoi-y of the first Notre Dame-Army game. 
Ralph Farina, coach of the Harris­burg Catholic high grid team, said a few words, then Dr. Joe Rafter, '10, gave a short history of both schools and went on to stress the spirit of Rockne and of Notre Dame. 
John McNeill, Walt Lutz, Charles O'Connor (who came up from Mari­etta) Joe Farrell, Joe Greely, Mart Curto, Ed Smith, Joe Rafter, Vince Schneider, Bill Gorman, Jim Graham, Rod Gillis, Charles Dougherty, Frank Barbush and myself made up the Notre Dame crowd, and I might add that this was the largest turn-out the club has ever enjoyed. 
The Villa men were Reagen, Her­

rity. Pepper, Shore, Walley, Mona­ghan, Hassett, McNelis, Daley, Fran­celia, McHugh, Kopp, Leone, O'Neill, and Fcehery. 
The meeting adjourned with the formation of a Villa club in Harris­burg, and a resolve to hold another such meeting around Christmas time. 
John McNeill, still with the Chevy people, will represent Notre Dame at the Franklin and Marshall celebra­tion in Lancaster. Johnny Gorda's wife has been dangerously ill in the hospital for the past month; how­ever she is out of danger now and on the road to recoverj-. 
Joe Greely and Mart Curto are with the newly-formed state Social Security Bureau; Rod Gillis is with General Motoi-s; Frank Barbush is blowing his horn for Ted Brownagles' orchestra; and Charles O'Connor is a state bank examiner. 
Yours truly is still state chemist (though I am planning on going back to Medical School next fall). 
Bob Johnston. 

HIAWATHALAND (M!di.-Wi*.) 
Joseph A. L«uerman, *31. 197S Rivenide Ave., Marinette, Wis., President: Frandi C Boyce, ex. '32, 1401 Firrt Ave., S., E«aoi­aba, Mich., Secretary. 

HOUSTON 
M. E. Walter, '14, 1702 Stuart Ave„ Presi­dent: Raymond B. Keatine. '35, ISIO Ster­ling BIdff., Secretary. 

INDIANAPOLIS 
William H. Krice, '29, 5858 Forest Lane, President: Francis Layden, '36, Indiana Bell Telephone Company, Secretary. 
JACKSON. MICHIGAN 
Walter Ducey, '17, 339 W. Morrell St. Pres­ident: Edward T. O'Neill. '26, Wildwood Apts., Secretary. 
JOLIET, ILLINOIS 
Dr. Edward J. Mayer, '27, 801 Ruby St, President; I^wrence J. Dnnda, ex, *33, 704 

N. Raynor Ave., Secretary. 
One of our most successful gath­erings was that held the afternoon and evening of September 15 at the Morris Country club, Morris, Illinois. -\ blind bogey golf tournament and bridge were the features of the after­noon, and the golf winners were Joe AdIer, Bob Duffy, Dr. and Mrt. J. W. Pokomy, and Dr. Joseph A. Zalar. Mrs. Charles Lennon won first hon­ors at bridge A delicious dinner was seiTed, and the evening spent with bridge, the awarding of prizes for golf and bridge, music and every­thing that goes to make up a good time. About 45 persons attended. Credit for the success of this affair goes chiefly to Ed King, chairman, and his committee. Dr. E. J. Mayer. 
Clarence Wilhelmi, and Joe Silk, but 
everyone co-operated and helped all they could. 
One of our newest members, Fran­cis A. Dunn, was admitted to the Illinois bar on October 14, and is now-associated with the law firm of Len­non, Harrington and Cassiday, 504 Joliet Building. Francis is a gradu­ate of De La Salle high school in Joliet, received his -A..B. degree at Notre Dame in 1936 and his bach­elor of laws degree in June this year from Notre Dame. The congratula­tions and best wishes of all for suc­cess are extended to Francis on the attainment of his goal. 
-Associate members recently ad­mitted to the club are Leiand C. Stephen, William J. Speckman, Thomas J. Testin, Dr. J. W. Pokomy, Robert E. Higgins, Eugene Ganson. Jim Hynes, Dr. Joseph A. ZaIar and Carroll Virgo. These are all promi­nent Joliet men, friends and backers of Notre Dame and very good friends of all the fellows in the club. 
Several club members attended the Notre Dame-Hlinois game at Cham­paign, October 9. -A.mong these were Don Wise, Joe Kirincich, Tom Feely, and Larry Dunda. Quite a few of the boys have intentions of seeing 
The Notre Dame Alumnus November 1937 
the remaining games on Notre Dame's tough schedule, any one of which surely will be worth seeing-
From Rockford came Mike Lorden, '24, and Ray J. Dunda, '31, a former Joliet club member, and their wives. 
Hallowe'en Hard Time Party is being planned for October 30 in the clubrooms. Dr. Mayer is in charge of the affair, with Clarence Wilhelmi and others assisting. 
The members of the club meet in­formally semi-weekly. A full pro­gram for the fall and ivinter months will be enjoyed by all the fellows. 
Larry Dunda. 

KANSAS 
Albert J. Gebcrt, "30. XI. of Wichita. Wich­ita, Kansas, President: Dan "Welchons, 'SO, 62S Elm St., Ottwa, Kansas, Secretary. 

Norb Skelley, '25, sends word from Salina, Kansas, that the alumni in Salina and adjacent territory are looking forward to their second an­nual Notre Dame get-together and dance at Christmas time this year. Norb also sends regrets that, for the first time since 1922, Salina doesn't have a student representative on the campus this year. 
KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) 
Robert Tyler. "29, 3616 Pasco Blvd., Kansas CSty. Mo.. President; Charles E. Meyer. '29. 420 E. Armour Blvd., Kansas City, Mo„ Secretary. 

LAPORTE. INDIANA 
Norman E. Duke. '34, 304 Niles St., Presi­dent: Robert E. Quinn, ex. *39, 1401 Monroe SL, Secretary. 
* 

LOS ANGELES 
DousEas Daley, '30, 781 Ceres Ave., Presi­dent: Thomas Ashe, '31, 2413 Flower St, Huntin^rton Park, Secretary. 

LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
p. E. Burke, '88, 307 Camp St., New Or­leans, La., President; Cyprian A. Sporl, Jr., '28, Whitney-Central Bids., New Orleans, La., Secretary. 

Outside of ha\ing a verj- enjoyable \'isit from Lew Thornton and Art Denchfield, news is very scarce. Art has just returned for a vacation after spending three years in South Amer­ica. Lew, who works for the Guar­anty Trust Company in New York, arranged his vacation so that he could meet Art here in New Orleans. We feel vei-y happy to have them here with us for a few days and feel quite certain that Lew has his foot­ball "dope" well in hand notwith­standing it is still early in the sea­son. 
My brother and I are planning on making the Notre Dame-Army game. Cyp Sporl. 
* 

MANILA 
Alfonso Ponce Emile, '05, Manila. Presi­dent: Conzalo K. Valdes, '35, 709 San Mar­(Hino, Secretary. 

MEMPHIS 
John S. Montedonico, '35, 327 Keailworth PI.. President: Theon F. Dohosne, '27, 1072 S. Wellincton St.. Secretary. 

MIAMI, FLORIDA 
Vincent C. Giblin, '18. 4103 Collins Ave.. Miami Beach, President; Daniel J. Lino, ex. '34, 1617 N. W. Ninth Ave.. Miami, Secre­tary, 

MILWAUKEE 
John Qauder. '34, 1219 Vliet St., President; James Corrisan, '35, 1S29 N. 69th St. Wan­watosa. Secretary. 

MONTANA 
William B. Jones, '28, 411 Power Bids,, Helena, President: Leonard D. Regan. '33. Montana Power Co., Great Falls, Secretary. 

NASHVILLE 
Kennedy Jones. '3D, Jones Chemical Co.. Secretary. 
* 

NEW JERSEY 
Peter J. Quinn, ex. '33. 320 Belleville Ave.. Bloomticld. President: Philip Heinle. '35, 76 Oak\'iew Ave., Maplewood, Secretary. 

We had our first regular meeting of the year on October 4 at the Essex House. President Pete Quinn asked the members for loyal support dur­ing the season. He then gave us the first good news of the year by an­nouncing that our Freshmen Wel­come Party had been a financial suc­cess, due to the hard work of Dr. 
Hewson. 
Dan O'Neill gave a satisfactory re­port on our annual retreat, which event became the topic of a long and interesting discussion from the floor. The club feels that, due to the size of the crowd attending the Retreat in the past year, the committee should find a location where more suitable accommodations can be obtained for the members. Les Jandoli was se­lected to give a report on a prospec­tive new retreat house. 
We have lost a very good club member, Dave Froelich, who has been transfen'ed to the Mid-West. Dave was chairman of the Army tickets ac­tivity. Pete Quinn has taken his place. Pete informed us that the books were going vei-j' well. The club is hoping to establish a scholar­ship fund this year with the proceeds of the activity. 
Tom Purcell told US of his plans for the Hard Times Dance to be held November 6 in Singers Grove, Springfield, New Nersey. We are hoping to be able to celebrate a vic­torj- over Pitt that night. 
The most important discussion of the evening concerned our annual Christmas dance date, as there are only two nights suitable to the alum­ni. We decided to let the final de­cision rest in the hands of the dance committee. Joe Moore was named chairman, and Bill Quirk and Tom Flynn will assist him. 
The meeting ended with the draw­ing for the door prize. Bemie Reilly established some sort of a record, when he ivon the door prize for the third consecutive time. As usual the "turn-out was large and they lin­gered long." A few of those present were: Walt Matusevitch, John Neu­bauer, Bill and Chuck Quirk, Jack and Andy O'Keeffe, Dr. Hewson, Ed Shields, Ray Geiger, Bill Smuller, Sam Colarusso, Johnny Hopkins, Jack Barber, Mike Bishko, Don Sulli­van, J. Rourke, Bill Carter, Bucky O'Connor, Harvey Rockwell, Al Al-vino, Joe Drinane, Archie Duncan. Dr. Hayes, and Gerry Froelich. Jack Driscoll was busy collecting dues. 
Dr. J. C. Petrone, '27, dropped Me a note, saying he would be at the next meeting, and Bob McDonough, insurance broker, and Phil Arnheiter have, also, promised to be there. 
Phil J. Heinle. 

NEW YORK CITY 
Leo V. McLaughlin, '32. 70 Pine Street, New York City, President: Henry R. Prev. '30, 1226 Tinton St, N. Y. C. Secretiry. 

September 17 saw Bill Daunt's diligent work rewarded with a show­ing of 17 Notre Dame men at the Bishop Malloy Retreat House. Rev. Cosmas Shaughnessy, C.P., retreat director, was a fine host; he went so far as to color asters artificially so that the altar in the chapel would be decorated blue and gold. 
The spirit of the Notre Dame campus was precipitated when a football was resurrected in the mon­astarj". Bill Daunt's pros immediately organized and during the recreation period a vicious game of touch tackle began. Bill was injured on the first play and was carried to the infirm­ary. 
The week end was very profitable, both from a spiritual and a physical view. All the retreatants look for­ward to another retreat ne-vt fall at the Bishop Malloy Retreat House. 
NOTRE DAME - ARMY WEEKEND 
On the evening of November 13, 1937 the New York club will hold its dinner-dance and reception at the Hotel Roosevelt in the Hendrik Hud­son room. The reception will begin at 6:30 p.m. and the dinner will be served at 7:30 sharp. Francis "Bugs" Walther's ('25) orchestra will pro­vide the music for the gala evening. 
All reservations will be provided for in order and those reading this should get in touch with our diligent chairman. Doc Gelson, at the Hotel Roosevelt. Reservations wil l be opened to the general public as soon as the game tickets aiTive in New York as the announcement will ac­company the tickets leaving Notre Dame. 
As in former years this affair has provided the best time for all. It has been the best center for meeting 
November, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ANNUAL RETREAT OF THE NOTKE DAME Ci-rii OF NEW YOCK Bottom row: .T. N. Gclson. Rev. Cosm:is Shaujrhnessy. C.P.. Rev. Jordan Black. C.P., 
W. Daunt. L. V. McUiURhlin. G. G. Gallivan: Second rmv: H. R. Frcy. J. T. 0"Donncll. 
G. J. Zeiller. W. Gillespie. T. J. Walsh. E. L. Donoshue: Third row: E. F.illon. H. Gioruio. J. P. Burke. A. Sheiblor. W. Slader. E. R. Ncahcr. Wi'liam Shore. 
all the "old grads" and campus per­sonalities and it proves to be mini­mum in cost. 
Arthur Bergen, '31, surprised ev­ery one October 18, 1937 and was man-ied to Miss Irene Randall of South Bend. The marriage was per­formed in the church of Notre Dame, New York. John Blanda, '31, Arth­ur's roommate was, best man. 
Leo V. McLaughlin, president of the club, married Miss Marjorie Gli­chman October 23 in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. William Slader, '32, was best man and Mrs. Herb Georgio, matron of honor. 
Thomas Listzwan, '29, is in town 2'epresenting the Vermont Marble Company. 
The club is to hold a drawing at the Centre Club on the evening of November 10. Twenty-six choice seats for the Notre Dame-Army game will he awarded as prizes. The pro­ceeds will be used for the education­al fund of the club. 
A large number of the alumni have changed their address and have not made this known to the secre­tary. Unless they write this oiiice we will be unable to let them know of club activities. 
Henry R. Frey. 

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Bernard J. Abrott, '27, Latham Square Bide.. Oakland, President: Paul J. Cuahin?. 
•31. 1221 Central Bank Bide., Oakland. Sec­retary. 

NORTHERN LOUISIANA 
Althnr J. Kane, '31, 307 Wilkinson. Shreve­port, Freeident; J. Richard Kowery. '29, 1624 Creswell ^,j5!2SKSfi?jV §£cn^rj. 

OKLAHOMA 
Joseph A. Moran. '32, 1611 S. CusoQ. Tulsa. President: Marion J. Blake. 'S3, National Bank of Tulsa Bldg., Tulsa, Secretary. 

OREGON 
Charles J. Hirschbuhl. '22. 2130 N. York, Portland, President; Harold J. Harstick. '25. 633 N.E. Everett. Portland, Secretary. 

PARIS 
Louis P. Harl, "16, Paris Office, New York Herald-'Tribune, Paris, France, President. 

PEORIA 
Ai Gur>% Jr., '2S. 530 W. Richwoods Blvd.. President: John Sloan, '33, 233 N. Under­bill. Secretary. 

The week-end of the Notre Dame-Illinois game was a vei-j- busy one for the members of the Alumni Club of Peoria. -A.n eventful evening was spent by those who attended the din­ner that Friday night at the Hotel Jefferaon, honoring Thomas Layden, the father of Elmer Layden, '25. Mr. Layden avoided the task of being a speaker of the evening, but accounts of his own personal experiences and anecdotes about football in the Lay­den family were thoroughly enjoyed by all seated about him. 
A special ti-ain of eleven cars was sponsored by the Peoria club over the New York Central Saturday to the .game. It was quite an undertaking for the club and evidently quite suc­cessful if the community singing in the dining car en route was any indi­cation. The trip back, however, was not quite as noisy. Dick Roney, Jim­my Downs and Stan Czapalski, of Chicago, were with us on the train. 
Bill Motseit was married on Co­lumbus Day to Miss Matilda Robb at St. Mark's Church. His brother Rev. 
Bourke Motsett performed the cere­mony; Jimmy Morrow was best man, 
and Ernie Hechinger, usher. Jack 
Shodron, who was transferred by the 
Caterpillar Tractor Company to its 
division at San Leandro, Califomia, 
is once again in Peoria at the local 
plant. 
John Sloan, Jr. 
* 

PHILADELPHIA 
Wniiani E. Coonejr, '32, 572S HeHabon S.X^'™"™i™'' •*• '• Wackennan. "SS. 5356 Chew St.. Secretary. 

-Attendance at our monthly meet­ings has imperceptibly but steadily been falling off, which has prompted us to organize a membership commit­tee who will personally contact all members in the Philadelphia district in an effort to boost the attendance at the meetings. So, all yon men whom we haven't seen for some time can e-xpect a visit from some mem­ber of the Membership Committee very soon. 
Another innovation in the club's activities are the weekly luncheons at Greenwood's, in the Bellevne Ho­tel Court, on Thurdsays at 12:30 
p.m. At one of these luncheons Bryan Hayes regaled the participants with his stories gathered from the sporting circle in which he moves and makes lus presence so keenly felt. Here's an invitation for those of you who have not already at­tended to come and spend a pleasant lunch hour with us at Greenwood's any Thursday you happen to be in the vicinity. 
Emmett Mortell, who spent his freshman year at Notre Dame in 1932-33, is in town furnishing the power in the backfleld of the Phila­delphia professional football team. 
I attended a lecture on concrete with Jim Nolen on the eve of the Carnegie Tech game, after which Jim hopped a train for Pittsburgh to see the game. 
Club members will attend a Mass for deceased members at the 9:00 o'clock Mass at the Cathedral on November 7. 
Ed Huntinger is in town working for Gallagher & Burton and Bill Moritz comes to us from Newark. He's employed at Western Union. 
Adrian J. Wackerman 
* 

PHOENIX. ARIZONA 
E. J. HOkert. '22. 402 Title & Tmst Bids. Phoenix. President. 

RHODE ISLAND & SOUTH. MASS. 
Thomas Collins, '28. 166 New Boston Road. Fall River. Mass., President; John R. Jolly, ex. '18, 457 Pawtucket Avenue. Pawtucket. 
R. I.. Secretary. 

Letters in late September from Bob Powers and John McLangUin told about the club, individually and collectively. 
Leading the fall program are the annual excursions to the Army game, by boat and train. Some 600 per­sons will be transported to the game under the sponsorship of the club. 
Dr. J. F. Rockett, the state direc­tor of education in Rhode Island, was the chief speaker at the first meeting of the year of the Notre Dame Guild of Rhode Island, which is very effec­tively composed of the mothers, wives, sistei-s and other feminine friends of the Notre Dame men of the state. Starting its third year the Guild has an imposing record of ac­complishment for Notre Dame. It is so far the only organization of its kind in the country, but plans are in the making for the extension of the idea to other sections of New Eng­land and, eventually, to other parts of the country. 
Bob reported a recent week-end %'isit to Providence of John Fagan, '28, who is now in Hartford, Con­necticut. Bob had attended the wed­ding of Mickey Quakers, bodyguard for President Roosevelt, and after the ceremony had met John Roose­velt, the son, and his wife as well as Governor Hurley of Massachusetts. 
John McLaughlin had entertained the boys in his beer warehouse on September 15, and plans were in the making then for club activities in the fall and the \vinter months. 
John said further: 

"Jean Dubuc, '14, is appointed manager of the Rhode Island Reds this year, and we plan to accept his invitation to attend a hockey game in a body during one of the winter months. 
"Clem Grimes, '27, was recently married to Agnes Sullivan of Provi­dence. Clem is connected with the Attorney General's Department. Be­lieve his honeymoon took him and his charming ^vife •nithin the shadow of the Golden Dome. 
"Tim Sepe, '35, also entered into the marital state recently. "We vnsh Tim lots of luck in his new assign­ment as assistant coach at Cranston High School, where he spent Ms high school days. 
"The Holy Cross Fathers, located at North Easton, Massachusetts, held three splendid retreats during the summer months. At each occasion the alumni club was well repre­sented." 
ROCHESTER (New York) 
D. Bernard Hennessey. '34. 110 Bedford St., 
President: Gerard Farrell, '34, 447 Thurston 

Road, Sccretao* The Notre Dame Club of Roches­ter officially launched its fall activi­ties October 5 with the election of 
new officers and a brief outline of proposed plans. 
The new officers are Bernard Hen­nessy, '34, president; Raymond Mar­grett, '35, vice-president; Gerard Far­rell, '34, secretary; John Gillooly, '35, treasurer. Gerry Smith, '26, Glenn Hatch '28, and John Desmond, '37, were elected to the Board of Governors. 
Motions were introduced in regard to the renewal of the campaign against Communism; a state conven­tion of Notre Dame men; outside speakers for each meeting and week­ly meetings for lunch. 
For some news concerning local personalities, here you are:— 
Pete Connelly, '32, early last spring became a full-fledged member of the New York State Bar Associa­tion and is now well on his way to a successful career. His brother Frank, ex. '34, who retained his seat as jester of the club, is still trj'ing to avoid extra detail with the National Guard. 
Pony Sheehan, ex. '33, is now an ensign with the local unit of the naval militia. 
Larry Carpenter, '34, is about to leave the ranks of the "regulars." Our sympathy to the bride-to-be. Miss Florence Foster. 
John Dorschel, '31, and Red Mar­grett, '35, are still with Associates Discount—and both doing very well. 
John Gillooly, '35, is now working in Whiting Buick Corp. office. 
Gerry Smith, '26, is a very suc­cessful insurance agent. 
Bill Jones, '32, is going to be a big muscle man in a local girls' col­lege play. 
Jack Kinsella, '34, has been re­ported as ill, and on his way home from South America where he has been working for Keelox Manufac­turing Co. of Rochester. 
Marty Bayer, '35, the man with the broad shoulders, is now playing semi-professional football after a great season with one of Rochester's best Softball teams. 
Johnny Odenbach, '36, builds tank­ers in his father's ship-yard for a living and skippers his own nine-meter sailboat for recreation and trophies. 
Conspicuous by his absence from last night's meeting was Joe Flynn, '16. 
In the future I will be glad to re­ceive any correspondence at my ad­dress, 447 Thurston Road, Rochester, New York. 
Jerry Farrell. 

ROCK RIVER VALLEY (niinois) Jowph Bittdorf, ex. '33. 106 16th St., Ster­
ling, HL. President; Edward Sullivan, ex. 

*33, Amboy, HI., Secretary. The annual summer picnic was held on July 25 at Dixon's cottage along the Rock River. Those putting in an appearance for the affair were Frank Petritz, Mike Lorden, Ray Marelli, and Lahman of Rockford; Tom Parker and Joe Bittorf of Ster­ling; Paul O'Neil, D. J. Hooley and 
E. E. Hooley, Vincent Carney, Casiel and Askvig of Rochelle; Dr». Ed and Dave Murphy, Sherwood Dixon, Wil­lard Jones, John Cahiil, Joe Judge from Dixon; and from Amboy Dr. Gene Sullivan, Earl Antoine, and your correspondent. 
.4s evidence that a good time is always enjoyed at these picnics wit­ness the fact that Tom Enright drove from Wisner, Nebraska, in time for the picnic and returned home the same night. 
Ed Sullivan. 
* 

SAN ANTONIO 
William V. Dielmann. Jr., '25, 107 Thelma 
Drive. President; Edvard G. Conroy, '30. 
204 E. Craie PI., Secretary. 

SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) Thomas F. Van Aarle, '21, Standard Oil Co.. 
Saginaw, Mich., President; William 0. Hur­
ley, '25, 117 Cherry St., Sasinaw, Mich., 
Secretary. 

SANDUSKY, OHIO 
E. H. Savord, '12, Box 135, President; 
Charles M. Monch, '25, 925 W. Washinston 
St., Secretary. 

The October meeting was held at the summer home of Attorney George Wagner, '28, and 14 heads were counted as present, this attendance being approximately 90 percent of the total. Enthusiasm has been main­tained at full pressure throughout the summer and we plan on a very successful winter season. The plan­ning committee for the ne.\-t six months is headed by Russell Smith, '28, and practically all plans for the conduct of the meetings for that per­iod have been made. 
Our meetings of the future will open with a business and open forum at which something of an educational nature ^vill be given. This time of the meeting will be strictly limited to 30 minutes. The remainder of the time will be socially spent. 
The club passed a resolution call­ing for the awarding of a Most Val­uable Player Award to one member of each of the two high school foot­ball teams, namely St. Mary's and Sandusky high schools. These awards will be made after the regular sea­son is completed and on the occasion of the annual testimonial banquets given by local service clubs for the teams. 
C. M. Mouch. 

SOUTHWESTERN CONNECTICUT 
John M. Hurphy, '27.86 Liberty St. Bridge-
Dort. Prraident: Edward P. Monahan. 'M, 
304 Beeehmont Ave.. Bridgeport. Secretary. 
We held another of our periodic meetings on October 18 at Tom Murphy's house and a good crowd showed up. Dr. Oesau and his brother-in-law, Jerry Andres, were there to take an active part in the discussion of why we lost the Carne­gie game. Walt Stapleton was going back to 1926 and arguing with John Molloy as to what score we beat Ne­braska by in Rockne's time. 
Andy Patrick Walked silently around talking over the financial sit­uation with those present and ended up with a fist full of cash. That is a real accomplishment and Morgenthau could no doubt use a man like him. 
Joe Forrest showed up and when we asked him where the recently-married Butch Pivarnik was he in­formed us that Butch was taking his leisure after a heavj' week end and could not make the present get-to­gether. 
Bus Redgate is always a regular attendant and was present with a Hawkshaw - looking pipe that curved down under his chin. I don't know what he could be tracking down. 
Bill O'Brien attended the Yale-Army game in New Haven last week and thinks Notre Dame should have little trouble with the "Kaydets." Joe Russo still seems to have a lot of pep left, although he's complaining he's not the man he used to be. 
Bill O'Reilly, from Norwalk, showed up and we're hoping to see him at all our meetings from now on. 
,, John Corcoran was there and seemed to have an excellent memorj' of past Notre Dame games where spectacular plays were made. 
Dr. Tarasovic failed to arrive and, as he is always present at our meet­ings, some one remarked he must have been taking out an appendix up in Bridgeport Hospital. 
Jack Cox and Bill Mulrennan are both working in New York and are never in town for our Monday even­ing meetings. 
We have our next meeting sched­uled for the Saturday afternoon of the Minnesota game and will gather 'round the radio much in the fashion of Sorin Hall days to help push the boys over the goal line. 
Ed. Monahan. 

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
Charles G. Corcoran, '17, 1134 W. Monroe 
St., President; Fanl D. HcConndl. '32. 120 
S. Walnnt St, Secretary. 
Our recent activity, the benefit for St. James Trade School, was a large success in every way. We cleared about ?700. The eight tickets to the Notre Dame-Illinois game went to Johnny Connors, owner of the Em­John Corley's farm. The varions ac­pire Hotel in Springfield. The pub­tivities were well patronized. I be­licity on the event was wide and ef­lieve that about 80 people were in fective, and we feel that the Uni­attendance." versity in general and the club in 
"No doubt there will be new fall particular, as well as the School, ben­activities what with the football efited immensely. 
games and the cool weather coming Three of the club members left us 
, on." this summer. Joe Churchman and * his wife are now living in Washing­
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 
ton, D.C., where Joe is with the In­
Donald Sheehy, '33, 104 Glahn Ave.. Syra­
ternal Revenue Department. Ed cuse. President: Ynniam S. Cate. '27, 1S( 
Hardinz Place, Syraenae, Secretary. 
Donnelly has moved to Indianapolis to take over a territory for Town Crier flour. John Bennett is now in TIFFIN, OHIO Chicago, having merited a promotion C. J. Schmidt '11. 260 Uelmore St, Presi­ydth the State Highway Department. 
dent: Fred J. Wasner, '29, 152 Sycamore 
St. Secretary. 
* 
Paul D. McConnell. 

TOLEDO 
Edward J. Hacetty. '28. S36 WoodvOle. 
President; Raymond L. TiUman. '25. 2027 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) Bretton PI.. Secretary. Louis C. Chaplcau. '30. 301 Union Trust 
Bids.. South Bend. Ind.. President; Clarence 
Hardinjr, "25. South Bend Tribune, South TRI-CITIES (Illinois-Iowa) 
Bend, Ind.. Secretary. 
George Uhlmeyer, '28. Peoples' Li^ t Co.. 
Holine. Bl.. President: Elmer W. Besten, 
The foIIoOTng committees were 

'27. 1711 W. Sixth St, Davenport Iowa. 
chosen by the board of directors of Secretary, 
the club in September to direct the In conjunction with the policies of 
Friday night smokers preceding the our Alumni association, the local home games this fall. Drake, Art 
members were much in attendance 
Diedrich and Frank Miles; Navy, at the recent Catholic Industrial Con­
Callix Miller and Harry Driggs; ference held under the auspices of Pittsburgh, Bernie McCaffery and the Most Bev. Henry P. Rohlman, George Sheehe; Southern California, bishop of the diocese of Davenport Burton Toepp and Willard Wagner. 
at the Blackhawk Hotel, October 17, 
Varied notables, mostly of the 18, and 19. 
newspaper, the radio and the coach­Father Hoff, of Notre Dame, was ing professions, are on the speaking one of the speakers; and you have program for each smoker; heading the word of the writer, who heard them each time is, of course. Thin the talk given by Doctor Hoff on ihe Man Layden. Entertainment is pro­caampus of St. Ambrose College here vided and there are food and drink in Davenport, that his expression of for the multitude. All alumni and Catholic doctrine and belief in con­
their friends are urged to attend. junction with industry carried con­
* siderable weight and meaning to the ST. LOUIS large audience. 
Dr. Matthew W. Weis, ex. '23. 330 Metro­
Sunday night, October 17, 1937, Jr., '30, 214 S. Henunec Clayton, Mo., Sea-Msgr. John Ryan, of the Catholic 
politan Bids., President; David J. Rielley, 
retary. 
University in Washington, delivered 
Dr. Matt Weis, president of the an address on the three encyclicals of club, sends word that the club "had the Pope to some 600 people. Mon­a very fine picnic this summer at signor Kyan made a plea for the use 
The Springfield Club recently presented a check for $700 to St. James Trade School. Left to right are Frank Zimmerman, chairman of the benefit com­mittee; Brother Aegidius, Brother Egbert, John Troji, Charles Corcoran, president of the club; Walter Bernard and Oliver Field. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus November 1937 
of common sense in the determina­tion of the many industrial questions that are coming to the fore. 
During the spring and summer months, six members of the Tri City-Club had their families augmented, the latter part of April, the Charles Solos, '25, announced the an-ival of a baby girl; May 10, Myron Murphy, '31, was made a proud father of his first child, a boy, Michael James; May 26, Wells Robison, '33, became a proud father of his first child, a boy, Patrick Edward; June 29, 1937, Richard Keith arrived at the home of George Uhlmeyer, '23. George as you know is our club president and this is his second child, the first being a girl, Jacqueline, age three. 
On July 20, Doc Stork paid his first visit to the home of your writer, '32, lea\'ing George W., Jr.; August 4, Judith Ann, first child of Vance Uhlmeyer, '32, arrived. In talk about the dinner table at our monthly meetings one can hear the expres­sions of proud fathers telling of the well being and cuteness of their re­spective children. M>Ton Murphy, bein g the oldest of the fathers, can always be depended upon for information concerning the best method of rearing children. Elmer Besten, '27, has adopted a very fine boy and hopes some day he will pitch the Notre Dame nine to victory. 
The monthly luncheon meeting of the Tri City Club is still a feature and each third Saturday of the month a goodly number of our mem­bers are in attendance. You can no doubt understand that club activities during the spring and summer months have been curtailed, so we have no report to be made except our monthly meetings. 
On -August 8, death took William Leroy Roach, son of Bob Roach, at the youthful age of 16, a victim of infantile paralysis. Bob's boy was very active athletically and a very popular member of the Muscatine High school. He was already regis­tered at Notre Dame where he would have joined his cousin John Roach, a member of the band. Bill Roach was a prominent Muscatine High school athlete where he starred on the track team as a junior, and was being counted upon to fill a regular berth on the football team during his senior year. 
G. W. Vander Vennet 

TUCSON, ARIZONA 
Vincent HenBCsbach. ex-'Zl, 1710 B. 2nd St.. Tucson, President: Ted A. Witr. ex.'29. Box 
628. Tucson. Secretary. 

We of the local club are already looking fonvard to the year 1940 when the University of -Arizona meets the University of Notre Dame in the first football game between these two schools. Needless to sav that all the people of Arizona are grateful to Coach Layden and his staff for show­ing such consideration to Athletic Di­rector McKale for his service ren­dered when the teams of N.D. came through Tucson on their frequent trips to play Southern Cal, and we feel that the scheduling of a game is a real tribute to Mac McKale. 
Joseph Ryan, '24, has just re­turned after a trip to Chicago visit­ing his brother and sister. I'm hap­py to report that Eddie Collins is greatly improved and we feel that he is now well on the road to recov­ery. Since my last letter Bob Sulli­van has taken on a career of hotel management and is now assistant in one of our residence hotels. 
Ted Witz. • TRIPLE CITIES (New York) John Donnelly. *34, 37 "WashinRton Street, Binixtiamton, President: John Murphy. *35, 43 Knccland Ave.. Binchamton, Secretary. 
TRI-STATE (Ind.-IU.-Ky.) 
K. Brown Miller. '24. Southern Commercial Corp.. Citizens Bank Bldgl. Evansville. Ind.. President: Dr. Wm. J. Endress, '25, 301 Grant Street, Evans\*ille. Ind., Secretary. 

Following a recent showing of the football mo-vies of the 1936 season, the club elected new officers. E. Brown Miller is now president; Har­old Casey, vice-president; Dr. Wil­liam Endress, secretary; and George Heil, treasurer. Plans are undei-way for the club to present a trophy in football to the Evansville city cham­pion team. 
Club personals: 

Jack McGrath, '27, formerly of Evansville, is now operating the Poto-Fit Tailor Shop in Cleveland. 
Billy McGannon, former star Mem­orial- High School halfback and a brother of the late Tommy McGan­non, of Purdue, entered Notre Dame this fall. 
Births: Mr. and Mrs. F. Wendell Lensing, '31, a son, Robert Wendell, on August 3; Mr. and Mrs. Tom Hartnett, '28, a daughter, Kathleen Marie. 
¥• 

TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) 
Gerald F. Conway. '32. David. Inc., First National Bank Bide.. St. Paul. President: 
A. K. Sullivan. '27, 264 Lowry Medical Arts BIdB.. St. Paul. Secretary. 
* 

UTAH 
Rayraond B. Brady. '24, 206 Keams BIdjr.. Salt liSke City. President: Cyril HariKcke, 
•19. 64 F. St. Salt Lake Oty. SeeretaiT. 
•' * 

UTICA, NEW YORK 
Dr. John F . Kdley, '22. Peoples Gas & Elec­tric Bids.. President; Joseph W. -FuIIesn, '31. 1621 Neilson St . Secretary. 

WABASH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Paul Kennedy, '24, Templetxm, Ind., Presi­dent Emmctt Fennison. '32. Wallace Bide., Lafayette. Ind.. Secretary. 

WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT 
John Robinson. '28. 32 Farmlnston Ave.. President: James M. Monaehan. '27, 44 Ayer St, Secretary. 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Paul Beretz, '27, 1833 New Hampshire Ave.. 
N. yr.. President: 

The Notre Dame Club of Washing­ton has little of an official nature to report this trip. Yours truly and the the only other remaining officer of the club, Andy Auth, are planning a get-together of local Notre Dame men in mid-November, which will be our first meeting since our July dance. This prospective meeting probably will be the occasion for the annual election of officers and a dis­cussion of preliminary plans for the annual winter dance to be held in the Christmas-New Year's season. 
I wish to make an appeal to all club members to report to me, direct, any change of address. Also, any Notre Dame men who have migrated to these parts recently are urgently requested to drop me a line gi-ving their address. The fluctuating char­acter of the population of this city raises havoc with our official mailing list, hence the appeal. 
On a recent trip to New York City, the writer ran in Warren Fogel, '30, who also was engagement-partying at Ben Riley's. 
Paul O. BereU. 
¥ 

WEST VIRGINIA 
-y-incent Heishman, '35. 1217 Lewis St . Charleston. President: -WTIiam Kenney. '34, 714 State St, Charleston, Secretary. 

We held our first fall meeting on September 23 at the Ruifner Hotel. Coach Irish Garrity, of Charleston High School, and his assistant Walt Schrader, ex. '38; George Blaha, '34, of Chicago, and John Cackley, '37, were guests. 
George Blaha had been traveling in the South and was enroute home to begin his senior year of medicine at the Universitj' of IlUnois. 
Plans were discussed for a foot­ball trip to the Pitt game. Jim Mal­loy, '30, was appointed chairman. Jim worked overtime in making the trip a success. 
Mr. and Mrs. John Cain, '28, of Clarksburg, announce the birth of a son, October 4. 
Sam Reed, '34, moved to Charles­ton last April. Sam is employed by the Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Corporation. 
Jim McQuain, '26, foz'merly of Parkersburg, has taken a position with the Carbide. 
Jim Malloy, '30, has had an a'ddi­tion to his family, this time a girl, Joan Marie. Jim is employed by the 
November, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Co. 
Hugh Loder, '30, Was married August 5 to Miss Marie Josephine Hintei-schied, of Columbus. 
Floyd Genin left the West Vir­
ginia Public Service Commission to 
accept a position in Madison, Wis­
consin. 
Bill Kenney. 
* 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
D. M. "Turk" Meincrt. '28, 85 Grand Ave.. 
Etna, Pa., President: Bernard W. Conroy, 
•30, lt09 Kenneth Ave., New Kensington, 
Pa., Secretary. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON James M. Phelan, ex. '17, University of 
Wosliinsrton, Seattle, President; Emmett G, 
lenihan, '15, 1405 HOBB Bldg., Seattle, 
Secretary. 
* WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA 
Ralph Jorden, '26. Bridgeport, Ohio, Presi­
dent; Leo J. Kletily, '31. 10 Zone St., 
•WhcelinB. Secretary. 
WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME Sister Elizabeth Scton, S,C., Saint Mary's 
College, Holy Gross, Ind., President; Sister 
M. Angelice, B.VJI., St. Joseph Convent, 
Mt. Camel, Dubuque, Iowa. Secretary. 
* 

YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
John Uoran. '29, 1348 Quinn, President; 
Charles Cushwa. '31, 463 Madera Ave., 
Secretary. 
A TEXAS SPECIAL 
I received your letter of Septem­ber 21 notifying me of my election to the office of lieutenant governor of District No. 14. 
I have been in a quandary ever since I received your letter. I don't know whether I should call for a re­count or accuse my friends of giving me the double cross. Your records will disclose that on several occasions my name has been placed on the ballot of the Alumni association as candidate for h'eutenant governor or governor of the Texas district. Until the results of this election were an­nounced I was of the opinion that I controlled enough votes to always run second. As alumni go in Texas, there is a fair sized group in Beau­mont and Port Arthur and these men like all Notre Dame alumni, stand ready to do a favor for a fellow alumni, and heretofore they have ac­cepted my instructions and voted for my opponent. 
About the time the last ballots were received by us there was what I thought was a fortunate occur­rence. We had a dinner at the New Crosby hotel in Beaumont honoring that grand chai-acter of Notre Dame, Father John Farley, who was my guest on a visit in Beaumont. Now, thought I, this is a swell opportunity for me to remind all the men about the ballot and tell them to follow the instructions given them in previous elections—this would save time, as one announcement would do for all. 
Maybe it was the wine, or maybe the boys framed me and the election machine went hay\vire, anyway, we enjoyed a fine evening together. Those invited were Alf. J. Duperier, '00, H. P. Barry, '01, contemporaries of Father Farley, Leo J. Hannon, '09, 
R. E. (Bob) Paine, '09, of Houston, Richard Broun, '14, Joseph J. Kane, '15 of Galveston, Leo J. Mixson, '23, Richard Cardray, '23, Erwin J. Le-Blanc, '20, Joseph E. Broussard, Jr., '26, Joseph J. Hebert, '28, Christy Flanagan, '28, Herbert Schultz, '28, Burrell Boykin, Jr., '30, Thomas Hughen, '35, James Haggerty of Washington Courthouse, Ohio, '08. Others invited were my father, Jos­eph E. Broussard, sr., my son, Joseph Broussard, now a freshman in Cav­anaugh Hall, James Denny Bordages, old student ('09), and invited in hon­or of the amval of his thirteenth child a few days before our dinner, Walter M. Casey, managing director of the New Crosby hotel, a full blooded Irishman and ardent admirer of Notre Dame, and A. J. (Sonny) Duperier, student, '26. 
You can readily see why I was 
surprised to learn that I had been 
elected if these men followed instruc­
tions given by me regarding their 
vote. 
Clyde £. Broussard, '13. 
CAMPUS NOTES 
(Continued from Pase -15) 

at the door. . . . With the dollar as an unexpected working margin we presume the theme song after the dance was "Hamburgers at Kew­pies, Please Jane." .. . At least that's how we would have spent it, . . , 
Next social event will be the Law­yer's Ball. George E. Murphy, Gales-burg, Illinois, has been named as general chairman by Law Club presi­dent, Louis W. Vettel, -Ashtabula, Ohio. 
The Notre Dame Symphony is having a rebirth under the baton of Professor Daniel H. Pedtke. . . . Charles M. Callahan, Lexington, Mas­sahusetts, was elected president of the Presidents' Club. . . . Speaking of Mass., Pat Manion, popular law school professor who was married in Bahstun, became the father of an eight-pound girl. . . . Williaim Paul Howard, president of the Villagei-s, has the boys ivorking hard on the club's first social function, a dance Thanksgiving day. . . . A student camera club, under the supervision of Professor Stanley S. Sessler, head of the Art Department, has been formed. . . . Dan Cochran, Wheeling, West Virginia, is president of the group. 
-After the Navj' game the Knights of Columbus football dance for the benefit of the Gibault Home was packed to the doors. . . . The Palais Royale, with Ina Ray Button and her Melo-Dears as the attraction, matched the K. of C. crowd for size. . . . The dances were so crowded that those in attendance reported that they literal­ly got many "kicks" out of their dancing. .. . At the Ina Ray Button dance it seemed to your correspond­ent that every hay-shaker within 90 miles was present each •with his own variation of the Barnyard Stomp, which may be described as two thirsty mules rushing out of the bam to get a drink of water. . . . 
Alexis Coquillard HI, grandson of Notre Dame's first student, is a soph­omore in the College of -Arts and Letters. . . . Interhall debating, al­ways a source of widespread interest, will be in charge of Frank Fitch, Cherokee, Iowa. . . . The Commerce Forum is really going to town . . . 200 attended the group's initial meet­ing. . . . The Law school heard a straight-from-the-shoulder lecture on 
. the subject of the Federal Bureau of Investigation by G-Man Harol d Raneike, head of the F.B.I, for the State of Indiana. . . . The senior law­yers agreed to abolish the traditional canes in favor of keys, but rumor has it that the barristers may reverse their decision. . . . 
During the past year Notre Dame's post office cashed money orders ag­gregating 1219,000. . . . The Reli­gions Bulletin had its 16th birthday. Conservative estimate of the number of daily readers—180,000. . . . The Scholastic is running a new column this year, "Music Notes," by Paul Locher, Monticello, Iowa. .. . As is immediately obvious the title of the column is a direct steal of the widely-read "Campus Notes." 
7937 Legal Directory 
(Ailditions and ChauKes) 

COLORADO Denver GHARA. Bart. W.. A.B.. 32 1052 Bannock Sireel 
ILLINOIS 

JolUt 
DUNN. Francis A.. A.B.. -36, LL.B„-37 Lennon. Harrington & Casstdy 504 Joliet National Bank BIdg. 
INDIANA 

WHITELEATHER, John W.. Sp„ -37 
OHIO 

Hamilton 
WALSH. Herbert A.. A.B.. 32 511 Renbchler BIdg. 431 N. Fourth Street 
NEW YORK 

Flushing 
KISSLINa Joseph P„ Ph.B.Comm.. 78 39-01 Mab Street 155-17 Sanford Avenue 
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Announcement has been made of the following engagements: 
Miss Margaret Tieman and Dr. Edward T. Yorke, '30, Linden, New Jersey. 
Miss Mathilde L. Buhr and Edward 

J. Van Huitseling, '35, Elmharst, Illinois. 
Jliss Libby Putnam and John T. Rainey, '35, Jamestown, New York. 
Miss Justine Barkley and Thomas 

H. Luckey, Jr., Louisville, Kentuck}\ 
Marriages 
Miss Winifred Margaret Vander­

bosch and Edward Haney Sallows, 
'20, were roamed September 18 in South Bend. 
Miss Louise David Carey and Francis John Bon, '26, were married September 16 in Meadow, Wyoming. 
The mamage of Miss Arlene Bade and Thomas J. Quakers, '28, took place on September 22 in Lynn, Mas­sachusetts. 
The wedding of Miss Pearle A. Vessey and Paul A. Hemmy, Jr., '29, took place on September 18. 
Miss Margaret Conroy and George Hoasley, '29, were mamed in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame, October 18. 
Miss Marian Griffith and James Joseph Wood, III, '29, were married September 18 in Toledo, Ohio. 
Miss Anne Elizabeth Duffy and James Edward Burke, '30, were mar­ried September 20 in Mangum, Okla­homa. 
Miss Mary Irene Geary and Frank Joseph MczAdams, Jr., '31, were mar­ried September 29 in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Ila Juanita Randel and Arthur Bergen, '31, %vere manied October 18 in New York. 
The marriage of Miss Lorraine Wiedland and Jim Gallagher, '31, took place September 25 in New York. 
Miss M. Benjamin and Joe F. Boy-land, '31, were married in August. 
Miss Lillyan Reg^na Waytisek and Al J. Tuohy, '31, were married Sep­tember 25 in Baj'side, Long Island, New York. 
Miss Regina Hegarty and Earl Wil­liam Brieger, '31, were married in Elkton, Maryland, on October 19. 

The marriage of Miss Cecil Mary Burnett and Edward J. Flynn, '31, took place on October 30 in Rich­mond Hill, Long Island, New York. 
Miss Irma Rissi and Michael Kin­ney, '31, were married October 13 in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. 
Miss Peggj- Anne Kauffman and 

William Charles Blind, '32, were 
married October 20 in New York. 
Miss Evelyn Jane Hoffman and Joseph Charles Strauss, '32, were married September 23 in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. 
Miss Julia Sheehan Kelley and Leonard Anson Donoghue, '32, were married October 16 in Merrill, Wis­consin. 
The marriage of Miss Marjorie Geichman and Leo Vincent McLaugh­lin, '32, took place October 23 in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. 
Miss Helen Marie Barrj' and Wil­liam Michael Hawkes, '33, were mar­ried October 14 in Jersey City, New Jersey. 
The wedding of Miss Phyllis Gra­ham and Francis Anthony Werner, '33, took place on October 2. 
The marriage of Miss Stephanie Rose Gudynowski and Feliks L. Wi»­trowski, '33, took place October 19 in South Bend. 
Miss Josephine E. Hoerstman and 

A. Joseph McCormick, '33, were mar­ried October 20. 
The marriage of Miss Patricia Caron and Patrick Francis Crowley, '33, took place October 16 in Chi­cago. 
Miss Elizabeth Ouellette Hoyt and John Edward Patrick, Jr., '34, were married October 14 in Baltimore, Maryland. 
Miss Marj' Charlotte Tighe and Robert James Donahue, '35, were married in the Alumni Hall Chapel at Notre Dame on October 5; 
Jliss Geraldine Prances Hagerty and Robert J. Haley, '36, were mar­ried -August 4 in Reading, Pennsyl­vania. 
Miss Henrietta Kahler and Fred Carideo ,'36, were married October 25 in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. 
Miss. Katherine Janette Warner and Roland J. Smith, '36, were mar­ried September 20 in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Sophye Mar­garet Balicki and Paul Emmatt 
Foley, '37, took place October 30 in Detroit. 
¥ 

Births 
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Pedevilla, '14, announce the birth of a son, September 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Manion, '22, announce the birth of a daughter, October 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. Aaron A. Hugenard, '22, announce the birth of a son, October 4. 
A daughter, Diana, was bom to 

Mr. and Mrs. Marc A. Fiehrer, '27. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles B. Cushwa, '31, announce the birth of a son, Wil­liam Wallace, August 15. 
A daughter, Maureen Jean, was bom on September 13 to Mr. and Mrs. John Lisicki, '31. 
Mr. and Mrs. John Zaback, '31, an­nounce the birth of an eight pound boy, October 1. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas C. Yarr, '32, announce the birth of a daughter, Rosemary, June 22. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. George Albert Lawton, '35, in Cleveland on October 2. 
A son, Michael Patrick, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. George Ireland, '36, on September 29. 
/• * 
Deaths 
A heart attack brought sudden death on October 2 to Robert P. Manix, '29, in a Dayton, Ohio, hotel. An attorney in Greenville, Ohio, Bob was in Dayton on business when he was stricken at 1 A.M. Though treated then by a physician and pro­nounced out of danger. Bob was found dead in his room about 7 o'clock the same morning. 
The former head cheerleader is survived by his wife and a four year ­old son and by his parents, two sis­ters—one a present student at St. •' Mary's, Notre Dame—and two broth­ers—one a present Notre Dame stu­dent. Bob had taken law at the Uni­versity of Cincinnati after leaving Notre Dame.' 
George Attley, '10, River Forest, Illinois, a Chicago suburb, died on August 19, according to recent word. 
A postoffice notice to the ALUMNUS made known the death of Jo6n L. Mcintosh, Sydney, Nebraska, a stu­dent Irom 1885 to 1888. 
Another brief notice carried news of the death, about a year ago in 
Florida, of Harry McAdams, Lafay­ette, Indiana, a student from 1898 to 1901. 
No details were available, as this was written, of the death of William 
J. Neville, '25, in Batavia, New York, on October 7. 
August A, Von Wonterghem, '20, formerly of Moline, Illinois, but re­cently a resident of Kansas City, Kansas, died on September 26 in Albuquerque, New Mexico, after a stroke of apoplexy. News of his death was kindly sent to the ALUM­NUS by George Vander Vennet, '32, of Moline, a relative of Gus by mar­riage. 
Gut took law at Georgetown after leaving Notre Dame, then practiced in Chicago for ten years before be­coming legal counsel for the Tobin Construction in Kansas City. He was on his way to the Pacific coast for a vacation when he was stricken. 
Members of the Tri-City Notre Dame Club recited the rosary at the wake, and the following members were pallbearers: Ed Meagher, '21, Ralph Coryn, '22, Richard Swift, '20, Charles Kingr, '21, Francis King, '19, and Peter Meersman, '21. 
Joseph M. Burgel, South Chicago Heights, Illinois, student from 1931 to 1933, died on October 19. 
Sister Rosalima, O.S.F., Manito­woc, Wisconsin, a Summer School student in 1920-21, died on Septem­ber 30. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sympathy to: Father Ernest D. Davis, C.S.C., '04, upon the death of his mother; Father Richard Collentine, C.S.C, '09, upon the death of his aunt; C. J. James, '16, upon the death of his father; Louis E. Wag­ner, '18, upon the death of his father; Rev. Michael Mangan, C.S.C., '20, upon the death of his brother; Clar­ence J. Kline, '21, upon the death of his mother; Thomas, '24, and Harold Cooke, '24, upon the death of their father; Charles W. Donahue, '25, up­on the death of his sister; Charles 
M. Walsh, '27, upon the death of his mother; John M. Crowley, '28, upon the death of his mother; John Mc-Avoy, '33, upon the death of his father; Roger McGovem, '33, upon the death of his mother; Camille Gravel, '35, upon the death of his mother; Ray Keating, '35, upon the death of his father; William Leo Jacobs, '36, upon the death of his grandfather; Frank C. Wade, '36, up­on the death of his mother; and Rob­ert J. Schmelzle, '37, upon the death of his grandmother. 
Personals 
Before 1880 ?S»'»^ =?=• T-S <5«i­
latcber, Fitchbnrs. Haas. 

1880-188 5 Secretary: Prot Bobert M. 
xoowaoo 9 A„jjn„„_ CardevUIe. Ohto. 
188 6 Seeretarr: Michael O. Bonu, 338 S. 
Second St, HmnUton. Ohio. 

1887-1888 S««««3;;, J- ^. Heineman. 
ConnersTUle. Indiana. 

]gg g Secretarr: F. B. Burke, 301 Camp 
New Orleans. Loulsians. 

1 JI40.1ft9^ Seeietarr: Louis F. Cfante, T
xoi7w-aoi7d Univ. Ave.. Minneapolis, Minn. 
189 4 Secretary: Hugh A. O'Donnell, 1 W. 
S7th St.. New York City, Cordial greetings from the genial class secretary are, as always, wel­come. Of Frost Thome (whose daughter had visited the campus shortly before) Hugh said, "I sup­pose running a general store, as ru­mor tells me, he has not time to an­swer letters." 
An announcement from Clarence 
J. Pope, '94, and George B. Pope, '29, makes known the opening of the Bunkie Modem Coca Cola Bottling Plant in Bunkie, Louisiana, 
189 5 Secretary: Eustace Culltnan, Sr.. 830 
Phelan BWB., Sen Francisco, Calif. 

189 6 Secretary: WUliara P. Bums. 387 
Willard Ave.. Michtsan City. Indiana. 

189 7 Secretary: Bev, J. A. MacNamara. St. 
Jos. Sanitarium, Mt. Clemens, Mich. 

Father MacNamara reports, after a summer in the East, that Charles Bryan and Charles Niezer both en­joyed European tours in the past few months. Father is back at his headquarters in Mt. Clemens, and is looking fonvard to seeing the Pitt game on the campus. 
189 8 Secretary: William 0. Keglar. 9th & 
Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati. Ohio. 

189 9 Secretary: Dr. Joseph F. Suane. 418 
'•"'"' Jefferson Blvd., Peoria, HI. 
1900 
190 1 Secretary: Joseph J. Snllivan. 130g. 
139 N. Clark SL, Chicajo, HI. 

190 2 Secretary: C C Mitchell, 110 S. 
Dearhom St, Box S, Chicaeo. DL One of the notable visitors for the Drake game was Eugene Douglass Staples, of Calimete, Cuba. .4. star track man in his student days, Mr. Staples left Notre Dame to join the Rough Eiders in the Spanish Ameri­can war, returning later to his classes. Residing in Mexico for a time he was driven from there by a revolution in 1912 and has been in Cuba for the past 17 years. He operates a 1,800­acre sugar plantation there. 
190 3 Seeictair: Frauds F. Binta, *M 
^ ~ Trust Oo. Bide. Mnwraksc, Wia. 
* 

190 4 Seeretaiy: Kokcrt Fnctor, MoBcer 
'•"^^ BldB-.. Elkhart. ladiua. 
19(1R Seoctary: Daaid J. O'Connor. M 8. ^"^^ I*Sane St, GUeaco. H. Father Henry M. Kemper is, as ever, carrying on active missionary work for "the big Notre Dame" from his post at the "little Notre Dame" (Notre Dame Institute for Boys and Girls) in Kerrville, Texas. Recent newspaper aztides received at the University emphasize this valuable aid. 
190 6 Secretary: Thcmai A: Lilly. 81I-M 
*" " Panlsen BIdjr., Spokane, Wash. 
Ernest M. Morris, of South Bend, is chairman of the newly-organized First Discount Corporation, South Bend, and Bernard Veil, '17, is a di­rector. Mr. Morris is also president of the First Bank and Trust Com­pany, South Bend, and Mr. Voll is a director of the bank also. 
190 7 Secretary: Bev, Thomas EL Bnrka. 
" * C.S.G, Notre Dame. Ind. 
190 8 Secretary: Frank X. Cull, BulUey 
BuSdins. Qereland. Ohk>. 

190 9 Secretary: B.F.CIe«iy, Notre Dame, 
'"' ^ Indiana. 
191 0 Secretary: Ber. K. L, Motlartr, 1900 * * Euclid Ave., Qevdand. Ohio. 
191 1 Secretary: Fred Steen. 16M First * * National Bank BIdsr.. Chicago, DL 
191 9 Secretary: B. J. Katser. 824 Fomtk 
**'**• St, Pittsburg, Pa. 
* 

191Q Secretary: Jamea J. Derit*. 921 En­
**'*"* Klnevs' BIdst. Oerdand, OWOL 
191 4 Secretary: Fruik H. Hayeit 40« 
'^*^ Bank of America Bldg.. Anaheim. CM. 
191 5 Secretary: James E. Sanford. 1M4 Farwea Ave., Chleasob BL Jim Sanford sends some delightful dope on Ray Kelly's recent spectac­ular campaign for the national lead­ership of the American Legion, much of which will be found under "Spot­light Alumni" in this issue. 
Says Jim further concerning Ray: 
"Those of us who knew Ray dur­ing his time at Notre Dame as a St. Joe Haller and have observed how far he has gone in his chosen profes­sion, as well as in the councils of the Legion, will continue to watch his career with interest and look forward to seeing him in the future occupy­ing the high place to which his char­acter and accomplishments entitle him. 
Ray's son, Ray, Jr., is a member of this year's freshman class at Notre Dame." 
The following is from Jim, too: 

"William L. Roach, age 16, only child of Bob Roach, our former class president, died at his home in Mus­catine, Iowa, some weeks ago, a \'ic­tim of infantile paralysis. The sym­pathy of the class and of all Notre Dame men is extended to his parents. 
"A recent visit with Mark Duncan enables the secretai-j- to announce that he is much improved in health. Write or call to see him at the White­hall, 105 E. Delaware Place, Chicago." 
|Q| £ Secretary: Timothy P. GslviB. Firat *"* " Trust Bide.. Hammond. Ind. 
1417 Secretary: Edward J. McOaker. 104 *'* ' S. Union St. ElBin. TO.
* 

IQIfi Secretary: John A. Lemmer, 1110— 8th Ave., S., E8canal>a, Mich. 
|A| a Secretary: Qarence Bader, 650 Pierce Street, Gary, Indiana. 
1<l9n Secretary: Leo B. Ward. 1012 Black *^* " Bide.. Los Ancdea. Calif. Leo Ward joins the re\-ival move­ment among class secretaries with this generous offering: 
C. P. J. "Jocic" Mooney wrote from Memphis, Tennessee, where he is engaged in the practice of law and is spending "a good portion" of his time in the U.S. Attorney's Office and repoi-ts, "like you, I see very few of the Notre Dame boys around my town." I believe that Saino is an en­gineer for the Tennessee Highway Department. Ryan lives in Chicago. Red Magevney is coaching a high school here and is a member of the Legislature. Sherwood Dixon comes here quite often. I spent a few days at Port Huron, Michigan, last fall with Clifif O'SuIKvan. He is going gi-eat there. Mrs. Mooney and I, dur­ing the past 12 years, have been va­cationing east of the Mississippi. We believe it is about time for us to spend a few years in the land of the autograph collectors and Aimee Mc­Pherson. Pei-sonally, I prefer tenant farmers and the hookworm." 
Gene Kennedy is going right along with the Bank of America, being the assistant trust officer, with various push buttons, buzzers and beautiful secretaries waiting on him. He has as his able assistants, among 75 or 100 others, D. Cyril "Dan" Toomey of Notre Dame (1920) and Frank Miller of Notre Dame (1922). 
A. A, Scott is now The Honorable 

A. A. Scott, having recently been ap­pointed by the governor to the office of Judge of the Superior Court. 
Other Notre Dame graduates hold­ing public office are Joseph M. Sutt­ner, deputy corporation commissioner and in charge of all brokers and Blue Skj' Law enforcement. Howard Par­ker, of piano plajing fame in the class of 1917, was recently appointed The Notre Dame Alumnus 
chief clerk of the Corporation Com­
missioner's Office with headquarters 
in Sacramento, California. 
Chicago's aldennan. The Honor­able Roger J. Kiley, spent a few days in Los .A.ngeles checking up on "why Gene Kennedy never married." Gene reports that "he is still looking for the gii'l who is able to support him in the style and luxur>' becoming to his position in life and too proud to see her husband work." 
Jimmy McCabe has been ti-ans­ferred to Los Angeles by the Illinois Central railroad where he is in charge of new business, if any. 
The moving pictures and radio have claimed a few of the boys some of whom are working and the others acting. George "Obie" O'Brien, car­toonist for the first Notre Dame Juggler, wrote recently from Eo­chelle, Illinois, advising that he has retained his chenibic countenance but has reduced to 240 pounds. He is in the theatrical business and ex­pects to make connections in Holly­wood. 
Delmar J. "Pinky" Edmondson is news commentator conducting a ma­jor broadcast known as the "Maga­zine of the Air." Pinky still uses 12­syllable words when tivo S3'llables would do just as well. Ralph Dumke is on a national hook-up as one of the "Sisters of the Skillet." Clete Lynch has a job traveling the entire United States and pays a \'isit to Los An­geles occasionally. 
Joseph Ingersoll Kane, formerly of Pontiac, Illinois, is sound engineer for Electi'ical Research Products. He has spent the past four years in their New York experimental laboratories and he was recently placed in charge of a fleet of sound trucks, and is now operating out of HoUj-wood. Joe stated that he spent a few days on the campus with Father Doremus and enjoyed some of Father Doremus' famous cooking, and reports that his cousin, Giles Cain, is located in South Bend operating the building formerly occupied by the Knights of Columbus. 
Gene Kennedy told me that he re­ceived a visit from Paul Fenlon. He stated further that he has heard that the brother-in-laws, Tom Beacom and Paul Conaghan, paid a visit to LoS Angeles recently. 
Frank "Monk" Marshall is an in­surance broker with headquarters in the Bank. of America Building in Beverly Hills catering to the moving picture industrj-. 
Hollis M. "Hoot" King is operat­ing a health institute. His old run­ning mate. Bill Cook, was last heard from in Juneau, Alaska, where he was engaged in mining. 
Jack Fusick is operating several restaurants in mo\ing picture stu­dios, his headquarters being in the November 1937 
Republic Studios in North HoUyivood. He has also acted as technical ad­viser in the Sonja Henie pictures. Jack told me that Nick Lukats as­sisted in the dii-ection in technical capadtj' of Sonja Henie's latest pic­ture. • 
Dillon Patterson will, effective No­vember 12, become the general agent in northern Indiana for the North­western National Insurance Company of Minneapolis, with offices on the third floor of the J.M.S. building. South Bend. Dillon has been with the Northwestern Mutual of Mil­waukee. 
1921 Secretary: Dan W. Duffy. 1600 Ter­minal Tower, Cleveland. Ohio. Your able sec, Dan Duffy, has been doing, as you know, some tough and effective spade work in ti-ying to dig out news of the class. "The re­sults, up to mid-October, are listed below for your enjoyment. Moral: more letters, more news next month. 
Joe Sanford, Muskegon, Michigan: 

"I have attended each Commence­ment since my graduation with the exception of two or three, as well as a few football games each year. I expect to attend all three of the re­maining home games this fall unle.ss prevented by circumstances beyond my control. 
"Immediately after my graduation in 1921, I settled in Muskegon, and had the usual difficulties encountered by the greater majority of aspiring young lawyers in getting started. However, the breaks started coming my way in 1928, at which time I was elected prosecuting attomej' of this count}- on the Republican ticket. I served in that capacity from 1929 to 1932 inclusive. After leaving that office, I practiced law until the spring of 1935, when I was elected circuit judge of the Fourteenth Judicial Cir­cuit on the Republican ticket. I have held this office since Januarj', 193G, and have had the pleasure of meeting Al Slaggert, John Higgins and other Notre Dame lawyers while holding court in Detroit. 
"Joe Riley, who graduated from Notre Dame in the class of 1918, is a successful practitioner in this cit}-. John Frederick, former Notre Dame football star, and now a resident of this city, recently opened an office here for the pi-actice of law. 
I hope that this report of my ac­tivities since leaving Notre Dame will encourage other members of the class of 1921 to make similar reports, as I am always interested in the activities of my friends in that group. 
Mike Schwarz, Wilson, Kansas: Unfortunately, I will be unable to attend a game this year. South Bend seems a long way. Occasionally I 
hear from Bill Neary and Morgan Sheedy. 
"My brother George (1925) and myself have an implement and plumbing company in one of Kan­sas' thousand small towns. Contin­ued dry seasons have spoiled our one and only crop, winter wheat. George is located at Wichita as an auditor in the Internal Revenue Department and comes here once in a while to in­vestigate, castigate, and revile the head of the house. 
"My wife and I have enjoyed ten yeai-s of married life and we have t^vo girls, aged 7 and 5, all in excel­lent health excepting myself. You would scarcely recognize me, a grey­head." 
Father Benedict Oberdarfer, O.S.B., St. Bernard, Alabama: 
"It is impossible for me to attend any of the football games; my work does not pennit me to absent myself so long, and, besides, the distance is too great, as much as I would love to see Notre Dame again. I am still teaching chemistiy: organic and gen­ei-al inorganic, and this, besides many other duties, keeps me ver>' busy." 
Mike Scanlon, Spiingfield, Ohio: "Am still connected with the Tax Commission, as sales tax examiner, duties at this time being mainly field audits. Michael David arrived 18 months ago, and is all boy. Have not made any plans to attend any partic­ular game, Dan, and if I do get up this year, it will be just on the spur of the moment. 
"The new address is 474 East Cecil St., and I feel certain I will have some news for you when you write again." 
Gerald Cleary, Escanaba, Michigan: 
" 'Say, Gerald, will you help me correct some papei-s tonight, and after WE get through, we will take a scoot down to Tokio, and have a little fun.' 
"So the papers were weighed, and the girls were given a treat by Dan. "At least we had a lot of good clean fun, didn't we, Dan? 
"News for the ALUMNUS—^haven't a bit—my dues are paid in advance —something unusual, but on account of the New Deal, eveiyone is pros­perous. 
"Jarees Crowley, who married the kid sister, was up to Escanaba for the summer, and spent several weeks at Mackinac Island. Elmer Layden, (you know, the coach at Notre Dame), also was on the Island, and both of those farmei-s shoot a mean game of golf. Marty Peelers, vice-president of Wadhams Oil Company, a booster for Notre Dame, was also present, so the golf balls flew high, ^nde and handsome. 
"Do not think I will be able to make any games this Fall, although I am going to try and figure on the Southern California set-up." 
Paul McDonald, Columbus, Ohio: 
"I have ordered tickets for the Pitt-Notre Dame and also Northwest-em-Notre Dame games and expect to be there with Mrs. McDonald and Paul, Jr., who, by the way, may be a prospect for football team in 1942." 
1922 Secretaiy: Gerald Ashe, BuOalo Ath­leUc Oub. BnffaJo. New York. Professor Pat Manion was one of the principal speakers at the national convention of the National Catholic Alumni Federation in Boston in late October. Pat spoke on "The Threat to Democracy from Without — Fas­cism and Communism." 
1923 ^''"' ^ Castner, 17 Cornell Road. West Hartford. Conn. Father John Duffy has a new post as captain-chaplain at Fort Devens, Massachusetts, after more than three years as chaplain at Fort Stotsen­burg, Philippine Islands. In a fine letter to the Alumni Office Father Dutfy offered his help in eveiy As­sociation activity. 
10?4 Secretary: J. F. Hayes. Wm. F. Ped­^^^^ rick & Co.. Emp. State Bide.. N.Y.& 
1925 Secretary: Johit P. Hurley. 20SS Brookdalc Road. Toledo, Ohio. The new sec. is off with this swell report on two of the "long losts" from the South. He says: The first two letters to come to me as class secretary was in a fem­inine hand writing. Katheryne W. Hall writes as follows: 
"I have a husband whose inten­tions are good, but that's as far as it goes. He's been threatening to write the class secretary' for years but it always ends with the threat. Since we enjoy reading about Harold's classmates, I'm sure some of them will want to know about him. Har­old now has all the territory south of Washington for the Meredith Pub­lishing Company. His headquarters are here in Richmond, 305 Grace American Building. I know he'd be delighted to prove the hospitality of the South to any of the boys coming hei'e. We have almost completed the backfield for the class of 1946. Rich­ard, Douglas, and Geoffrey give evi­dence of at least equalling their fa­ther's 6' 5" so you can tell Eln:er Layden to be on the lookout for some big fellows. Harold is ti-aveling South at present (my reason for wi-iting)." 
Well, Katheiyne, thank loads; you have started something. If the '25 boys are too busy to write let's hear from the ladies auxiliary. Mrs. Hur­ley doesn't mind. 
A second letter from Virginia and Anse Miller was full of news and a dandy idea. Anse is general mana­ger of the Virginia Metal Mfg. Co., Inc. Roanoke, Virginia. They fab­ricate corrugated metal pipe for drainage purposes in that section. Like Harold Hall, he has three husky sons that give definite promise of be­ing "naturals" for athletics. It must be the Virginia atmosphere—these boys, athletes and presidents. Here's Anse's idea in his own words: 
"John, I certainly hope you will keep up the good work and feel that you deserve the cooperation of all '25ers in your effort to get us into print. • How about calling on six or eight of them by name each month at the end of your items and letting them know that they, in particular, are expected to send in something before the deadline (the 15th) for the next issue? You'll then have the spot on them and as in the Big Apple, they'll then have to Shine or be known as poor sports." 
Thanks, Anse, and this idea's copy­righted for the class of '25. Let's let Norbert Clancy cover Indianap­olis, Walter Cyr gets in and out of Chicago, and A] Dashbach ought to be able to dig some news out of the Smokj' City. Joe Filzpatriclc must have Miami news. Don Miller is run­ning for municipal judge in Cleve­land, so he ought to be seeing people these days, and I personally, would like to know what's happened to Bob Hurley and Jack Sheehan. 
November 10th is the deadline, so remember the Big Apple! 
Byron Kirby, principal of the Oli­ver school in South Bend, spoke at a recent meeting of the Oliver Junior High School Patrons' Club on "My Impressions of Germany and Aus­tria." 
Larry O'Leary, the Colorado cow­boy, rode in from Gunnison with his wife and daughter for the Navy game. 
News of the Akron front from Frank Steel, attorney there. Forest Swartz, '26, and Mike Stoley, '33, were married this summer past, Frank says. He had seen Don Miller in Cleveland shortly before. Don, as John said, is running for municipal judge and so is Frank Celebrezze, who is now on the municipal bench by appointment. 
1926 Secretary: Dr. Gerald W. Hayes. 86 Hawthorne Ave.. East Oranoe, NJ . 
1927 Secretaries: Joseph M. Boland. Ath­letic Office Notre Dame. Ind.: Bd­miind DeCIcni. 7129 So. Park Ave., Chicaso. 
We present for your enlighten­ment and enjoyment those gay fel­lows of fun and stuff: 
DeCIercq— 
Consider this a belated report on the marriage of Bill Jasper which took place on July 17 in the Holy Name Cathedral in Chicago. Bill, by the way, has been transferred by his firm from Shreveport, Louisiana, to Chicago. 
Would also appreciate the address­es of Jimmy McNeil and Shelley Bannon. 
Through some unfortunate circum­stance, I misplaced a letter received from Dr. J. C. Petrone received some months ago. He now has his shingle hung out at 31 Park Avenue, Suf­fem. New York. On his last report, he was still single, although he had had a couple of close calls. Dr. Pe­trone said he had a visit with Dr. Tom Hartnett, who is a medico in the Navy. 
I had a brief visit with Bernard Maloney this summer. He has a good job with the Government and is lo­cated at present in Columbus. Ohio. 
I saw Sebastian Berner also and he hasn't changed a bit since our graduation. He certainly has everj' reason to be proud of a chubby baby boy, now almost a year old. Seb is an insurance man in South Bend. 
Boland— 
The rotund gentleman who con­ducts aluiiini affairs and the almost­as-rotund gentleman who is czar of this distinguished gift to the literaiy output of America sounded off unof­ficially last month in handing your scrivener the post of secretary to the class of '27. Let it be known finally that this key-pounder is but a clear­ing post for news—^the responsibility for getting it in here resting on the reader's shoulders. Ed De Clercq is still "ye secretarj'" at less than "dol-lar-a-year" wages, and Ed is welcome to that thankless task with my bless­ings. 
The few hints of last month about reporting present whereabouts got a rise out of Leo (Butch) Herbert, the Rock Island, Illinois, master of swing 
(jazz in that long-gone day of '27). Butch is practicing law in Rock Is­land, with oilices in the Safety Build­ing—^not a bad place for a lawyer's office! He tells the tale as follows: Elmer Besten is quite interested in politics over across the Mississippi in Davenport, Iowa. At present he is a justice of the peace—and renders justice to the fullest extent of the law: probably good at it from the "justice" he used to get on those um­pires calling balls and strikes on the chubby mound star! 
Remember "this space reserved for Don O'Meara," in the "Wake of the News?" That same Don ran into Her­bert returning from Springfield, Illi­nois, not long ago and reported that Don has left the oil-selling game to take up throat-oil selling in Peoria, 
Illinois, Herbert requests dope on the following: Tobe Gish, John Hogan, (last heard from in San Francisco), Jim Hanrahan, Pinky Martin, (now in physical eduration work in Pitts­burgh, Pennsylvania), Bud Boeringer —line coach at the University of De­troit, helping Gus Dorais), Jerry Rhodes, the master of the back­stroke; Ray "Bucky" Dahman (now in the steel business in Youngstown, Ohio); Fritz Wilson, (who is keeping Pittsburgh men well-dressed in the "bestest of the latest"); Joe Nulty (I wonder myself); John McManmon (now in charge of road landscaping in his native Massachusetts, accord­ing to the last report); Dinger Mc­Cabe, and Maurice "Pat" Cohen, (who is busily engaged teaching Latin to Taunton, Massachusetts, high school students, I believe). 
Pal Canny, wearing a Chesterfield coat and an iron hat, dropped in a week ago to help Spike McAdamc get a good start on the matrimonial sea, and took time out to look over 1937 equipment on the football field— where Joe Benda couldn't see him without those little pieces of glass that Freddie Collins found so essen­tial. 
Ed McKenna, with cowboy hat, stogie, and a few more pounds, re­ported to '27 headquarters on the campus from Kingman, Kansas, where he is in the furniture business —I hope; Ed hasn't changed except for that larger belt size, but who am I to comment on that? 
Art Sullivan, now living in St. Paul, Minnesota, and engaged in set­tling sundi-y claims for his insurance company employers, motored through the Bend on the tag end of his vaca­tion trip. Stayed o%'er long enough to get all the dope on football to re­port to the Gopher contingent. Sully is located in the Lowry Building, St. Paul, in the Rogers and Field Co. offices. 
Bill Daily, the philosopher-lawyer, finally checked in at the campus, %vith Sylvia, (Mrs. Daily) and young Mary and Tom, 5 and 4 years of age, re­spectively. Bill is CQhnected with the Employers Mutual Insurance Company, of Wausau, Wisconsin, but his offices are in Chicago and that's where the lad is now living. He re­ports that Jimmy Jones, former Al­lentown, Pennsylvania, laddy is now connected with Bishop Shiel's C.Y.O. work in Chicago. 
During the course of the session with Daily, the names of Red Flana­gan, John Wallace, Art Monaco, JLeo McCauley, Johnny Slocum, Eddie (Dog) White and many others came up—and information as to their whereabouts will be appreciated, but no reward will be paid. John Wal­lace can be excepted on the informa­tion counts, for he checks in many times a year—Commencement, Lay­men's Retreat, football and basket­ball games, and etc. He's now prac­ticing law in Calumet City, Illinois, and living in Hammond, Indiana. 
Joe Gartland, from the ancestral home in West Koxbury, Massachu­setts, reported by mail; his Gartland tradition is being maintained at the Uni\'ersity by two brothers, one of whom is a newly-ordained member of Holy Cross order and the other a member of the lay faculty. 
Tom Hearden is now teaching the fine art of knocking 'em down and running past them to the boys of his old high school in East Green Bay, Wisconsin; if any of them do half as well as the red-headed co-captain of the '26 team did, they'll really be men! 
Eddie McLaughlin spent 65 cents of Hugh McCaffery's money the other evening to call this scrivener from Chicago — Ray McClory and Monty Tennes were with the party and all took turns on McCafferj''s wire. The boys weren't talking over law cases, either! 
So endeth the monthly line-up: more names, more information should be here, of course: but remember that no news—no column: and that news depends on you. .\nd those en­gineers and science men had better grab a penny postcard—they never came from behind Father Steiner or Father Wenninger long enough to let US keep accui-ate track of them, and today we want to know what the builders and the healers of the na­tion, as provided by Noti-e Dame, are doing. 
Barrister Leroux, of Cleveland, hands a large compliment to Nick Ruffing, '32, for his excellent report­ing as secretarj' of the Cleveland Club, saying further, "Naturally modest he doesn't tell on himself, but you have pi-obably heard that he has developed into a real trial lawyer. He is in the office of Joseph Keenan, who is now in the attorney general's office in Washington." 
Clayt continues: "Don't fail to ex­tend an orchid to Joe Boland for his fine appearance on behalf of the class of '27. Incidentally, it is rumored that I am married. Have you heard anjrthing of Jim McFarlane, '27? I know he is married, and living in De­troit, but I haven't seen him or heard of him since the wedding. He is an air-condition engineer, in case you haven't heard. Saw George Guettler recently, but has any one heard from Jim Wing.' Joe Sweeny has that far-away look in his eye — if'you know what I mean." 
A! Doyle, head of the Speech De­partment on the campus and Demo­cratic city chairman in Mlshawaka, was recently elected president of the Mishawaka Chamber of Commerce. 

Paul Butler, South Bend attorney, is the new president of the Vincen­tian Service Bureau, an agency for co-ordinating Catholic charitable ac­tivities. He succeed s Professor Eugene Payton, '23. Professor Ray­mond Hoyer, A.M. '24, was re-elected executive secretary, and Father Hugh O'Oonnell, C.S.C, '16, Bernard Voll, '17, and Professor Earl Langwell were re-elected directors. 
1928 Secretary: Louis K. Buckley, Middle­ton. Wisconsin. 
Glory be, here's Mullen! Hold everything! The old radio rustler says: 
First, let me pay my respects to Herr Professor L. Buckley, the class secretary, who takes it on the lam for Madison, Wisconsin, leaving his column to be painfully composed on Saturday afternoons by people who have to work all the rest of the time. Dear Mr. Buckley: Is this fair? Aren't you even going to plan and organize a ten-year reunion for old twenty-eightei-s next June, so that some of us who haven't seen each other for a long time will have an excuse and an opportunity to break bread? You're the guy to do it, and since you have handed me one job, I happily present you with another in exchange. 
During the past year and a half, I've spent a good part of my life on trains, have crossed the country half-a-dozen times, and have lived in Los Angeles and San Francisco as well as in this curious town. And I haven't met many of the old lads either on the trains or in the radio studios, where I now spend most of my time. But here are a few notes, picked up ti-anscontinentally: 
Some months ago, on a train in Northern Wisconsin, I fell in with a genial gentleman in the club car. We had talked for an hour or so before we were both surprised when I learaed that he was Ed McCormick's father, and he learned that Ed and I were former co-laborers in Prof. Cooney's vineyard. Ed was with the Blackett-Sample-Hummert agency in Chicago at that time, but I noticed in last month's ALUJINUS that he's now with Lord and Thomas. Doing a swell job too, I've heard. 
Out on the coast, I saw more of Carroll O'Meara, ex. '29, than of anyone else among the alumni. Car­rol is now producing radio shows for Young and Eubicam in Hollywood. 
 saw Sid Sidenfadden, '29, out there, too, and several more of the lads who attended the party on the night before the U.S.C. game. Merv Aggeler, '28, was there in person, handsome as ever and somewhat larger. Merv's married now, and is practicing law with the iirm of Mi­chael Purcell, Black Building, L. A. 
Just before I pulled up stakes and returned East, I spent an evening with Hayes Fuller and his charming wife. Hayes was then in charge of national advertising for the Glendale, California, newspaper, and I presume that he still is. Unfortunately, we didn't have another chance to see each other. 
Mr. and Mi-s. Joe Timlin visited us in New York during the summer. Joe has gone metaphysical: he sells time now, for the Branham Company, ra­dio and newspaper representatives in Chicago. Joe has a one-year old daughter, Judy. In a letter last week, he informed me that his sister, Anne, and Jim Trotter, '32, are being mar­ried in the Log Chapel the day of the Navy game. Jim lives in Jack­son, Michigan, now, where he makes ohms, volts, and kilowatts do tricks for one of the big electrical concerns. His brother. Bob Trotter, '29, has spent his time since graduation build­ing bridges, steel mills, canal locks and other trifles for the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Company. He spends most of his time in Chicago, but his favorite town is Peoria, Illi­nois. 
My own brother, Cy Mullen, '30, after several years in Sears, Roe­buck's advertising department, is now wTiting, editing, and promoting for the magazine Opportuiiity in Chica­go. Dick Elpers is out there, too, representing the Columbia Broad­casting System with clients in that region and, like Joe Timlin, selling that immaterial but necessary stuff called time. Trotter and Elpers are still both bachelors, and vei-y eligible, too. 
On my last trip East, I stopped off on the campus to see my young brother Bob, '38. I was lucky enough to have some talk with Father Leo Ward and Professor John Frederick, but when I visited the Journalism de­partment, naiy a Mr. Cooney could I find. It was a Thursday afternoon; perhaps the sage of the Library had gone home. -I hope he's around the next time. 
I met John Cavanaugh, '28, aS I 
got off the train in South Bend that day. John's practicing law in Chica­go. He gave me a clue to the where­abouts of ray long lost roommate, 
Thomas James Griffin, '29, who, it 
seems, is now in Knoxville, Tennes­see. Dear Griff: w^hat are you doing, and why? Nobody seems to know where you are any more. 
I would like also to know what's happened to my other two room­mates, R. Ward Hacker, '29, and 
Cbuck Moosbrugger, ex. '28. And 
where is Joseph (Trotsky) Breig, my boss on the Scholastic? Since I left New York about a year and a half ago, I've lost track of that honorable gentleman. 
Here in New York, I see Murray Young, '29, once in a while—^the last time four or five months ago. Mur­ray has been teaching English at Brooklyn College, and studying for his doctor's degree. 
My own job now is directing radio shows for Benton and Bowles, the 
• same agency I've been with ever since I first came to New York nearly four years ago. That means that now — instead of living by Father Haggerty's gentle bells in Morrissey —I live by an infernal machine called a stop watch. Nell, myself, and two daughter, Toni, 5, and Judy, almost 2, live at 36 Wiltshire street, in Bronxville. It's our seventh address in the past sixteen months, and we hope it will stick for a while. 
Good luck in Madison, Louie -you old job creator. 
Registrar Bob Riordan sends a 
note that Tom Walsh has recently 
had his Notre Dame credits sent to 
the Lincoln College of Law, Spring­
field, Illinois. The envelope says that 
Tom is receiver for the Logan County 
Building and Loan Association, Lin­
coln, Illinois. 
Another Riordan note says that Bob Evans, Vicksburg, Mississippi, is taking care of entering his brother at Notre Dame for next September. Bob is with the Mississippi Lumber Company. 
Paul Brutt, active member of the Milwaukee Club, is the architect at present on a building job up in Beaver Dam, Wisconsin. He's been married about a year and a half, and is residing at 2136 North 73rd Street, Wauwatosa, Wisconsin, a Milwaukee suburb. With his brother John, (at present in Europe on a scholarship) Paul is in the architectural office of his father. 
Doctor (almost) Buckley sends 
these notes from the dairy country: 
Howie Phalin is the choice for guest conductor for the December ALUJINUS. Hovrie hasn't missed an alumni function since graduation and has covered a lot of ground since that time, so he should have plenty of information to fill the column next month. Drop him a line at 6151 Winthrop Avenue, Chicago, so he will have plenty of up-to-date material. November 15 is the deadline. 
It is our purpose to select men from different departments and from various geographical sections. Any suggestions of men whom yon engi­neers, scientists, lawyers, and medics would like to have for the job would be appreciated, since the first two issues were given to Arte and Letters and Commerce respectively. Don't forget that our ten-year reunion comes next June. Let's plan on a 100 per cent attendance. 
Bill Jones is now with the Depart­ment of Justice in Washington, D. C. His address is 2702-36th Street. As you probably noticed in last month's issue, Bill is to be mamed in No­vember. 
Frank Kelly dropped a line from New York City where he is at present taking a course in embalming. Frank mentioned that Ed Tully stopped to see him some time ago. Ed is a sales­man for Shea's athletic equipment. This is the first that I have heard about Ed since graduation. I wish we could get the "dope" on about 200 or so other classmates who have not been mentioned as yet in this column. If each of the men selected thi-oughout the year to ^\^•ite the col­umn "will come thi-ough" and you give them a little co-operation, I be­lieve this can be done. 
* 
1929 Secretary: Joseph P. McKomara, 231 
Wiscnsm Street Indianapolis, Ind. 
Here he is,—The Indianapolis Idol in one of those rare appeai-ances: 
The Question Before the House: Looking about, the realization that this group of '29ers had achieved that stage in life where a nation­wide flood, and eruption, or a tidal wave might mildly move them,—in fact arouse them to the extent of a dollar donation (later to be raised somewhat when deducted from tax­able income) made the bitter contro­versy that was raging galvanizing. The scene: a hotel room on a Satur­day evening after a football game. The subject: who, at Notre Dame "in our days" was the perfect Mr. Chips of the Campus. It all ended •n-ith the score standing three votes for Father Pat Carroll; thi'ee votes for Prof. Cooney of the Journalism Depart­ment; one vote for Prof. Hines, and one member not voting. The last we heard of it, it seemed about to be decided that all '29ers should be given an opportunity to vote on this burning question. Consequently, we would like to hear from you,—if not 
•with an answer to this problem, then on any subject with which you care to trust Mr. Farley's boys in gray. 
Purely Personal: All of us were very happy to hear that Bud Markey, erstwhile captain of the tennis team, is one of the lead­ing legal minds of the Firestone Rub­ber Company at Aki-on, Ohio. . . . Prosecutor George Beamer has proved himself to he the Jerome Travers in breaking up an embrj'o gambling sjTidicate in St. Joseph Countj'. Beamer has the respect of the people generally, and looks like a sure shot for re-nomination and re­election. . . . Quiet and efficient John Carton has taken a new position with th e Unemployment Compensation Division as a field supennsor. John's 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
territory is in northern Indiana, and 
%ve understand that he will not miss 
any of the home games. . . . 
Tom Jorden has been making the Jorden-Marietta Company perform in an acceptable manner. Tom is anx­ious to hear from some of the Sorin Hall crowd at his home in Martin's Feny, Ohio. . . . John Sexton was one of the field men to be successful in the recent Indiana Bar Examina­tion, and is doing right well for him­self as a legal light. . . . Barney O'Neill, of K. of C. fame, has taken a new position as clerk-codifier of the Treasurj- Hearing Board, of which Elmer Marchino is the chief hearing judge. Those who are in the know tell us that the Treasury Hearing Board has cases set down for each week-end that Notre Dame plays at home. . . . 
All the '29ers join in extending their heartiest congratulations to Pat Manion upon the aiTJval of an heir. . . . John Rocap is still forging to the front, and is proving very ef­fective as the grand knight of the In­dianapolis Council of the K. of C. . . . Incidentally, Frank Mootz middle-aisled on October 19 with Jeanne O'Connell. . . . Art Vogelwede is making quite a name for himself as the prosecuting attorney of Adams County, Indianapolis. By the way, Art has several children. 
Interview of the Month: 
Nothing can dampen one's enthu­siasm quite as completely as a cold, dark and i-ainy afternoon in early fall. The day that we picked to visit William H. Krieg, president of the class of '29, was just such a day as that, but once we were ushered into his office his ever magnetic person­alitj- and enei-gj- made us forget that it had been raining for four days straight. The law offices of Jones, Hammond, Buschman and Gardner at 919 Circle Tower in Indianapolis, overlooking the famous Monument Circle, look like the home of the most distinguished law firm in the city, precisely because it is just that; —and Bill Krieg, always a student, resourceful and with a brilliant legal mind, fits into this picture perfectly. 
Bill immediately began talking about Noti'e Dame and about the various fellows in the class. He said that he had just returned from a trip to Los Angeles on which he had seen Mannie Vezie, who is Tom Lieb's verj- capable assistant at Loyola Uni­versity. Vezie has done quite a bit of work around the movie lots as an e.xtra, and most of you probably have seen him. He has successfully launched and is operating a very splendid boys' camp in the High Sier­ras and is raising a boy of his own to join the gang up there. 
Larry Moore is a film cutter with 
November 1937 
Paramount, while Emmett McCabe is the secretary to one of the West Coast congressman. Bill said that he called Jim Brady on the long distance 'phone from Omaha, and that Jim is running the family paper at Idaho Falls, Idaho. Brady also has a po­tential football monogram winner to send to Notre Dame in a few years. 
Bill is a captain in the Indiana Na­tional Guard, and so it was quite natural that the rather shaky inter­national situation should have at­tracted his attention. There could be no doubt that he was unusually well informed with regard to what was going on, both nationally and internationally, and so his conclusion that the United States will not be drawn into a foreign war is valuable and verj' encouraging. . . . Incidental­ly, you will have to go a long way to go a long way to find a finer looking lad than Bill's son, Peter B,, who is training for the Registrar even at this early date. (I think that Bill is grooming for the S.A.C. chairman­ship). 
Bill is the president of the local Notre Dame Club, and has done a vei-y difficult task well. He is at­tempting to build up the scholarship fund and consequently the conversa­tion drifted into professors, teachers and classes at the University. Bill unhesitatingly stated that he believed that Professor Kaczmarek's biologj' class was the most valuable experi­ence that he had at the Univei-sity. He also praised the University ad­ministi:ation for raising the standard and bringing well known instnictors to the campus. Bill is especially anx­ious to hear from, and to see these columns contain news of. Bud Mc-Morrow, John Law, Jack Elder, Hank Burns, Fred Miller and Charley Coul. ton. While Bill hasn't changed a bit in his appeai-ance and is as cordial as ever (so that it's hard to realize that eight years have intervened since June of '29) we left his office with the impression that the class had se­lected a truly great leader back in the hectic days when we balloted him in as president of the class of '29. Later that evening as we swung around the Monument Circle on our way home sometime after midnight, we glanced up at the Circle Tower and noticed the light in Bill's office still burning brightly. 
Larry Stauder is back on the cam­pus to teach electrical engineering after studies at M.I.T. and experience with -A.llis-Chalmers. 
1930 Secretary: Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 
Kenneth St., New Kensington, Pa. 
John Harrington is now in Wat­seka, Illinois, at 455 South Fifth Street, hai-ing been transferred from South Bend by Swift & Co., his em­ploj'er. 

10^1 Secretary: John Bersmn, 828 K. Gol­**'*" fax Ave., South Bend. Ind. 
One of the ablest in gathering and writing class news, John Bergan has also that almost unheard-of curiosity among journalists—^promptness. We give him to you—with pride and gi-atitude : 
Thoughts while strolling: Who is listening to the sonorous voice of Joe Thornton now? Did Bill Brown ever 
become a news editor or how chubby is Tom Ashe? Is Art McManmon man-ied and which member of the class has the largest family? Then, too, how nice it would be to get a letter from each of the class telling us their experiences so that we might pass them on to our classmates throughout the continent. 
• Ari-angements were made at the Stag, 130 South Main Street, South Bend, for an informal gathering of the class and their friends on the eve of the Pitt game. A reception com­mittee was to be on hand after 9 o'clock and to arrange for i-ooms for class membei-s if the local hostelries were crowded. 
Jack Chevigny is again back in the Middle West and is ti-aveling for the Meyer Oil Company of Austin, Texas. Art Bergen telephoned me on the eve of the Illinois game that he was in town for an hour on his return from an automobile sales con­vention in Chicago. He is Nash dis­tributor in his native borough of Bronx, New York. 
Tim Benitz is now recei\'ing his mail at 225 East 35th Street, New York City, and will be on hand at the Penn Grill on the eve of the Army game to see any of the boys in the city for the contest. Contrary to reports, Walt Phillip is still single and is leading his own orchesti-a in a 
Philly night spot. Joe Vertacnik is 
now engaged in his fourth year of teaching at Saginaw, Michigan, high school. Tom Farrell, of the Pennsyl­vania Fan-ells, and now a native of South Bend, will be married early in November to Miss Grace Bmgger of this city. Stretch Maher is still in New York and may be found around the Centre Club; he would like to hear from the old Brownson Hall gang. 
Members of the class seen at the Drake game were, Ben Oakes; Mr. and Mrs. Eddie Ryan of the Pullman Ryans; Tom Yarr now located in the Chicago office of the Republic Fi­nance Co.; Jack Carberry, Cleveland advertising agent; Tom O'Connor, of Indianapolis, who is with his father in the grocerj' business; Jerry Crow­ley and Al Stepan. The Drake week­end also brought Bud Tuohy and his wife to the campus. They were mar­ried on September 25 at Bayside, Long Island, and spent their honey­moon touring the South and Middle West. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Benny Oakes did his best to show them Chicago, while your correspond­ent saw that they reached Michigan safely during their stay in South Bend. Sympathy of the class is ex­tended to Ray Manix on the death of his brother. Bob, early in October. Bob will be remembered by the class as the varsity cheerleader during our sophomore yeai\ Ray is ^rith the Federal Land Bank in Louisville. 
Barrister Bob Prendergast has opened his own law office in Rogers Park, a district in Chicago, and promises quick ser\-ice for any pro­spective customers. I am happy to report that Walter A. O'Brien, who has been sei-iously ill, is now on the road to recovery. However, he will be laid up for some time, and would appreciate hearing from some of the old gang. 
Congratulations of the class are in order for a number of the recent benedicts, Jim Murray, Tony Schrin­er, Walt Murphy, Albert Tuohy, Mike Adams and Jim McQuaid. Seen at the Illinois game by one of our 
scouts were, Tom Monahan, Stumpy Grant, Mike Kinney, Oliver Field, Bob Baskerville, Ray Dunda, Frank Dewinter, Ralph Dalton, Tom Yarr, Bill Red mond. Bob DufFy, Al Culver, Eddie Ryan, Jia:my Doyle, and Paul 
Fehlig up from St. Louis. 
The class had two Gannons, and now the Gannons are doctors. Frank is practicing in Cleveland, while John has recently completed his coui-se and is in the Fordham hospital. New York. Dr. George Wassel is also getting on very well down in Ken­dallville, Indiana. Bob Brannon was a South Bend visitor last month and brought a potential football star to enroll at the University. Bob is go­ing great in the law business in his native Iowa. Ed Mehern is in the fruit business in Tucson and regrets that he will be unable to see any of the games this year, and wishes to be remembered to his old friends. 
Announcement is made of the mar­riage of Miss Irma Rissi, of Staun­ton, Illinois, and Michael Kinney, of Springfield, in the Log Chapel on the campus, October 12. They will make their home in Springfield. The en­gagement and approaching marriage of Miss Ilah Randel, of South Bend,­and Art Bergen, of New York Citj-, was also made known, and the event has already taken place. 
Bob DeNeefe is happily married and is residing in Mobile, Alabama. Aust Boyle is a frequent v-isitor in the DeNeefe household. Jim Higgis­ton writes that he'is in his sixth year as insti-uctor in economics at Milford, Massachusetts, high school, and that Joe Thornton is very husy these days as a member of the Lawrence, Massa­chusetts, school board. Bill Leahy is 
63 

in his second year at Harvard school of business administration. 
Father Charles Carey, C.S.C., in­structor in English in the University and member of The Ave Maria staff, is the new chaplain of the local Knights of Columbus. Father Carey succeeds Father Leo Gorman, C.S.C., who resigned because of ill health. 
John Anderson is now district engi­neer with the southern division of the Michigan Gas & Electric Company, with his headquarters in Dowagiac, Michigan. He had been -with the Indi­ana and Michigan Electric Company in South Bend. 
1Q32 Seeretai?: Herbert Gnrxio, 900S 
188th St. HoUis. L. I.. New York. 

"The class of '32 will meet the night before the Army game in the McAlpin Hotel, New York City"— 
HERB GIORGIO. 
Here some A-1 dope from Stan Czapalski, written from 6839 Heyden Street, Chicago: 
The columns in the last issue of the ALUMNUS of the '32 class and the Chicago Club weren't overloaded, so I thought perhaps a few notes re­garding a few of the Midwestemers might find room. 
Emil Jane, '32, Casimir Vaikasas, 

'32, and yours truly are -working for Walgreen Drugs, Emil and myself as assistant managers, while Vaik is a manager of a west side store. That's three out of five pillroUers in the class who are working for the com­pany. Norb Schaller, '32, is in a prescription shop in Hammond. Rich­ard Roney, '32, calls me frequently. He's with the Chicago Elevated Rail­way Advertising department. Barry O'Keefe, '32, also uses the phone whenever the Chicago Club has some­thing doing. Right now he's busy on the formal to be given the night of the Northwestern game. 
Neil Hurley. '32, Ben Salvaty, '32, and Jim Downs, '32, meet for lunch in the Loop about once a week. I join them whenever possible. Dick, Neil, Jim, Ernie Hechinger, '32, Frank Oberkoetter, '32, and Leo Schiavone, '32, and myself all got together and went to the class re­union and had a swell time. 
On my vacation this summer to St. Louis I made a detour via Indianap­olis to see a classmate I hadn't seen since graduation. No less than Dr. Bob Glaser, '32, who is interning in the City Hospital there. On a jaunt over to Richmond, Indiana, I was en­tertained royally by Charlie Quigley, '32, (the last of the five class pill-rollers) and his charming -wife. Char­lie is showing his Dad how to run a store. On the return trip I stopped in Peoria to see Frank Oberkoetter and Ernie Hechinger. I missed Ernie who was vacationing with Dick Roney and Eugene "Barney" Bernhardt, '33, in Sturgeon Bay, Wisconsin. I had dinner at Prank's home where I met Len Condon's, '32, father, who said Len is helping him run the seed busi­ness in Eockford. Prank is engaged in commercial photo work, and re­cently moved his studios from Bloom­ington to Peoria. 
While on the subject of Peoria (What a to«-n.') Dick Roney, Jim Downs and myself drove there Octo­ber 8 where we joined the Peoria Club ll-car special to Champaign for the Illinois game. There's nothing special to say about the game, but the train trip was a honey. Should you meet anybody from Peoria ask him about Dick Roney and Buffalo Bill. Among those present on the train and a party at the Pere Mar­quette that night were Bill Motsett, '34, Joe Langton, '28, Mr. and Mrs. 
Bill Waterson, e-X. '32, John Sloan, 
'33, Al Gury, Jr.. '28, Mr. and Mrs. Jim Duff, '32, and Ralph "Dutch" Johnson, ex. '30. Neil Hurley and Ben Salvaty drove up for the game and joined us that night. 
I shouldn't forget that Priday night we attended the dinner of the Peoria Club at which the father of Elmer Lay den was the guest of honor. After the dinner Frank and Ernie really "showed" us the night life of the town. 
1 also shouldn't forget to mention seeing Len Bloromaert, '32, Bob Ca-hill, '34, Vern Knox, '31, Joe Keefe, '31, Ollie Powers, '32, and Ralph Dalton, '31, at the game. 
Getting back to Chicago — I see Henry Gajowski, ex. '32, and Joe Gonciarz, '31, frequently. Both have their own stores. Joe is happily married and has a daughter, while Hank is still happily single. I also see John Mahoney, '31, whenever I get to the Loop. 
These are the boys I see or hear from, and I hope I haven't missed anyone. 
Onward to the Pitt game, when I hope to see if the campus has changed since June. 
Father Joseph Payne, C.S.C, is di­rectly in charge of a newly-built mis­sion chapel in the territory immedi­ately to the east of the campus. Or­ganized as a unit of Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame, the mission 
is supervised by Father Ed Finnegan, 
C.S.C., pastor of the church. The new building was made possible by numerous contributions in money and labor from interested persons. Mo­reau seminarians provided much of the labor as their contribution. 
lO^ ^ Secretary: Donald Wile, 110 Fleuant 
* St, Joliet, HL 
Joliet on the wire, gentlemen! The sec. is begging for your help. Why not? He says: 
Here is as much information as could be garnered for the November issue. I hope the future will be a bit brighter. 
Ed Cogley, '33, Loyola Law, was successful in the September IlUnois State Bar examination. The best of luck to you. Bud. 
Jim Ross, '33, Fordham Law, was admitted to the New York Bar in April, 1937. 
Don Lusardi, '33, was married on June 26 to Miss Prances Moore, of North Bi-anch, New Jersey. Jim Donnelly, '33, was best man. 
Jack Finneran, '33, is the proud father of a baby girl. 
The best of luck to George Rohrs, 
'33, who was married on September 15.. 
Seen at the Notre Dame-Illinois game: Bill Donoghue, '33; Joe Judge, 
N.D. Law, '32; Jack O'Shaughnessy, '33. Probably many more attended but the "wailing wall" was too crowded for me to get within seeing distance. 
This column admits negligence to some extent in sending in informa­tion re: class notes, but here is a promise — send me the information and it will get to the editors. Let's have some news! 
Friends of Ben Cashman, former­ly of South Bend, can now reach him through the Associates Invest­ment Company, 434 Missouri Theater Building, St. Louis. 
Jim Gerend is effectively at work promoting Notre Dame in Sheboygan, Wisconsin, by showing some of the football films to the local Knights of Columbus. 
Bill Ackermann, Wheeling, West 
Virginia, is now Dr. W. E. Acker­mann and is sen-ing his internship at St. Francis Hospital in Pittsburgh. He was graduated from Jefferson Medical School last June. 
Jg3 4 Secretary: James Moscow. 2320 N. LawndiUe Ave.. Chicaso, lU. 
In hurling back the march on Mos­cow by the class secretaries of '35 '36 and '37, the '34 prexy rushes forth his large guns this way: 
Matrimony seems to be the major occupation among several of our boys. Perhaps we had better start with news of two of the veterans of this time-worn (or honored) institu­tion. Bill Veeneman and Gene Hol­land are both proud daddies of baby girls. Our congratulations also to Jean and Marie, respectively. 
Jim Morrison signed his surrender last July, while reliable reports from the East tell us that Clyde Lewis has now found himself a bride to man­age. Is that right, Clyde? Among the freshmen—October bridegrooms, no less—are Russ Leonard, Bill Mot-sett, Norb Schrenker, and Frank Matavovsky. 
Talking of small worlds, Russ's brand new brothei--in-law is Jack Flynn now, a Quincy, Illinois, busi­ness executive—and we hear just as good a one as he was a football player. 
Bi-anching off to other fields—-we know you will be glad to hear of Jack Brennan. He is now living in Chicago, and working for the Sin­clair Oil Company. Pat Felker has left the Chicago office to work at Stevens Point, Wisconsin, in the home office of the Hardware Mutual Casualty Company. 
Hats off and many thanks to Harry Rockett for his swell letter from Bos­ton. Harry has his Har%'ard Law De­gree, has passed the Massachusetts Bar and in his own words "am mak­ing a week's salary." Good luck, Harry, and may you continue making 52 big ones a year. 
Also attending the Har\'ard Law School with Harrj' were George Bru­no, George Como, Jim Reeves, Clyde Lewis, Jack Carmody, Don Mcintosh, Phil Faherty, and Art Hoene. In closing, Harrj' asked to be remem­bered to Chicagoans Jack Quirk, Ern Kiep, Jack Buckley, Jack Kiely and Ed Vyzral. And the above named, I may add, can reach him at 50 Bow­doin Street, Dorchester, Massachu­setts. 
Out of a moment of curiosity— What has become of Don Dugan, Red Crawford, Mush Rigante, Hector Marianti, Jack Dorsey, Andy Auth, Pepper Landers, and about 432 others? 
Paul McManus, former editor of Scrip, was on the campus with his brother for the Drake game and for several days afterward. Paul is help­ing to run the Fox and Hounds Club in Boston. 
And Jim Keams. once the genei"a­lissimo of the SCHOLASTIC, has also seen considerable of the campus late­ly in his capacity as sports ^vriter for the Chicago Daily News. He cov­ered the Navy game here and, on October 6, did a campus pre-write on the Illinois game, which he also cov­ered. 

Bill Hockberger, Baton Bouge, Louisiana, reports having seen a couple of the boys at church—^Tom David, who is working for the State Highway Commission in Louisiana, and George Wolf, who is with his family's bakery. 
193 S Secretary: Franklyn C. Hochreiter, 11 Brunswick Blvd., Buftalo. N. Y. 
That Busy Bee from Buffalo is buzzing again. Here you are: 
Correspondence picked up this month and we had a visitor who be­came an angel of good news as he unfolded his knowledge in the local Statler one Saturday afternoon Jate in September. 
We would like to clear up a little matter here before going on. It has been two years now since we wan­dered away from the "hallowed halls and green sward." During that time there have been those who remained with their first employers, as reported by us at the time of employment. Others have changed several times. During this year we shall give you the dope on evexy one as we learn it. Some may be repetition of previous reports. Nevertheless, we think that it would be well to reWew every one, his whereabouts, jobs, etc. for the benefit of the whole '35 gang. So let us know what you are doing— whether it is a new job, new baby, or new wife—or if it's just the same job, same baby or same wife as be­fore. It will do us all good to re­fresh our memories. That's the only way we can keep contact! 
Before getting into our "key-hole­ing" for the month, we want to ex­press via the ofiicial channel our felicitations to our worthy editors for their new features in the monthly organ. We refer to the two innova­t i o n s — "University Affairs" and "Spotlight Alumni." Both are defi­nitely worthwhile and interesting. They should prove to be top-notch pages in the ALUMNUS. 
On the day that we sent in our last bit of grapevine news we received a card from Italy. It was written on August 29. The lucky fella cruis­ing in his gondola on the canals of Venice was Paul Guamieri of the Warren, Ohio, Guamieris. All Paul said was that it is an "interesting city." Query, query — were you speaking of the sights or the sites, Paul? 
The timely visitor of September was none other than Frank Holahan. One September morning we answered a phone call from the national bank examiner of Galesburg, working out of the Wilkes-Barre, Pa., office. Prank was on the last 1 eg of a month's vacation which took him home and then on an extended trip through Minnesota, Wisconsin, Indi­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ana and other mid-western points. The Galesburg promoter looks as fit as ever and exhibits the astute qual­ities of a fella associated with the banking profession. His present ad­dress is P.O. Box 266, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
Much of the following "stuff" comes through as the result of that hour and a half with Frank. 
We want to express the condo­lences of the class of '35 to Camille Gravel and his family upon the death of Mrs. Gravel. Camille was called home from a trip up north at the time of her death, only a few months ago. 
During his expedition Frank ran into Bill Burkfaart who reports that the beer business is flourishing. 
Bill Murray, our corridor Adonis in Alumni, is employed in Akron, Ohio, by either the Goodyear or Goodrich Rubber Company. How about a statement on this Bill, to help us out? 
The State Department of Illinois has claimed the services of John Hallberg who is working as an audi­tor in the relief division, we believe. We'd appreciate a line from you too, John, to clear up your status. 
South Bend's loss has become the home town's gain for Tom Graves. Tom has returned to Galesburg to teach at Coi-pus Christi high school. 
The prize for company titles goes to Norb Hart, who is now in Port­land, Oregon, and employed by— "Employers' Liability Assurance Cor­poi-ation, Ltd., of London; Employ­ers' Fix-e Insurance Company; and American Employers' Insurance Com­pany of Boston." On a card of one of his fellow-workers we found all that data, so we pass it on to you. Norb until recently was working in Chicago. 
Of the potential barristers we give you the following: Ned Rowan in his last year at Georgetown; Tom Proc­tor completing his worries (we mean scholastic) at Notre Dame; Camille Gravel in law at Catholic University. Camille also has a job in the Cap­itol. Ray Broderick was among those lucky chaps who "made" the Law Review at Pennsylvania. That, if we know our Law Review staffs at the major universities, is quite a distinc­tion. Our felicitations, Ray! 
Bob Henneberger is reported as 
ha\-ing attended Georgetown Law last year. During the summer months he was doing work at Northwestern. The present question is—^have you returned to Georgetown or are you continuing at Northwestern, Bob? 
There are rumors afoot, Charlie Fehr, that you have taken to your­self a wife. Are these grounded in truth or fiction, Charlie? We'd ap­preciate another newsy letter from you along the lines of that swell one of a year ago. We hear that you are still in the hardware business. 
And from away down in Dixie— or beyond—comes the word that that southern genius of the accountants corps, Phil Jacob*, continues his work in an Alexandria, Louisiana, bank. 
The smiling and handsome prexie of the Buffalo Club during our final year—Bill Measer— is on the faculty of Williamsville high school. Wil­liamsville being Bill's native hamlet —several miles out of Buffalo. After completing his work in '35 he at­tended Canisius College here in the city doing graduate work. 
Several, times last year we ran into Ralph O'Malley in the Colfax, once sitting next to him by accident. Each time he was escorting the same dam­sel. Incidentally, the brother of that pillar of the President's OfBce (Ed O'Malley) is working for the Misha­waka Rubber Company. That ac­counts for our seeing him last year. 
Returning to Alma Mater for fur­ther studies is John Brennan. Last year John started in the Graduate Curriculum in Social Work in Janu­ary. We understand that he is con­tinuing his work this year in that de­partment. (How's Case Work com­ing, John? Don't let 'era scare you!) 
Along about the middle of Octo­ber came a letter from Mexico way. It was news of our friend—Senor Carlos Abel deLandero. Carlos writes that he is working for the Real del Monte Company at a mine called "El Alamo." Quoting from said missive—"I have to be at the mine about 7 a.m. and usually leave about 7 p.m., so you see I really work. I finally got my degree ac­cepted here in Mexico, and am now a full-fledged Mexican engineer. We had quite a number of visitors from the states during the summer includ­ing some fellows from school and two professors. Have yon heard from any of the gang? If you have, please let me know all about them. . . . My.address is: Plaza Gral. Anaya 29, Pachuca Hgo., Mexico." 
Glad to hear from you, Carlos, and to know that you finally sold your­self to that mining outfit. We as­sume that it was the same one you were with a year ago last summer while down in the home country. 
How about a few letters to Mex­ico, gang? Even though it's native soil, as you can see from his letter, Carlos would like to know what's happening to his friends of yester­year. How about it—Louis Grosso, Bill Schmidt. Mitchell Saleh? 
And vrith the epistle from below the border came one of those typi­cal journalistic gems of Bill Tonmey. Thanks a lot for the dope, Bill. How's things going with the News? Have they sent you out to test any more officials? 
Bill was out to the Drake game and ran into a few of the lads on and about the campus. We pass on to you the fine chatter he sent us. 
Jack Rainey was in South Bend, but for more than the game. While there, and by previous arrangement. Jack became engaged to Miss Libby Putman, the St. Mai-y's gal with whom he enjoyed so many Wednes­day and Sunday afternoons. Con­gratulations, Jack, and much good fortune! 
No visit would be complete to Notre Dame without a call at Paul Fenlon's room, and so the horde gath­ered, to use Paul's phone or just to talk. Among the crowd were Jack Shodron, Link Wurzer, John Annas, Tom Moran, Art Cronin, and others who straggled in and out. Says our correspondent "All stayed over for the week-end, and believe me. Little One, we had a swell informal re­union." 
Duke Walters showed for the game but left immediately after for Chi. He was not seen by Bill but others reported on him. 
Friend Toumey -drove as far a.=: Cleveland with Rainey and there they called Al Lawton on long distance. (The train of thought in your letter becomes tangled a bit then. Bill, but we gather that there followed a mid­night visit to the Lawton domicile. This on Sundaj-.) 
Al, now the proud daddy of an 8 pound, 14 ounce daughter (26% heavier than the average American baby) as of the previous Saturday, whipped out three bowls of chicken soup which he insisted was his own cooking. My, my, what man-ied life will do for one!!!! Congratulations Ai, to you and the Little Woman. Here is to a beautiful daughter! Will you send her to Sweet Briar for the Notre Dame wolves?? Remember, you found her mother there!!! 
The following day Bill stopped with Tom Conley and Frank Gaul, who are coaching at John Carroll in Cleveland. They had won their first game the week before and seem to have a good team. Best of luck, fellas! 
Just before writing us, journalist Toumey had lunch with on Joe Kaley. Joe is now a pennanent res­ident of the metropolis, having moved down from up the river. He is a salesman for the American Radiator Company. 
Comes word from Chicago of our summer past that Tom LaLonde, George Demetrio and Bob "Kellogg Corn Flakes" Bums are sharing an apartment on Michigan Avenue. Tou­mey requests the address of said establishment on the -A.venue, gentle­men—^How about it? 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
All of which reminds us, we tried to see you several times this past summer in the Palmer House, George, but each time just missed you. At least w-e tried. 
Quote again from Toumey — "Please tell Bob Scott I'll soon write him an open letter vie these pages, if he doesn't answer my last." That's a personal message. Bob, to do with as you will. And thank you!! 
Prexie - Roomie Proctor wrote a long newsy letter our way during last month. He relates that "there are very few fellows that we knew back. Leo Hanlon, of our class of '35, is back to get his degree." 
At a staff party, given by the Tauch Tours outfit that Tom was with during the summer, a slight ac­cident occunred to the Elkhart legal mind. We had heard about it some time ago but, because the damage seemed pretty severe to report unof­ficially, we requested accurate data from Tom. It seems that Tom was in the garage investigating a bus while the rest of the party checked another. In Tom's comer there were no lights and the boy stumbled into an oil barrel. Quote—"I chipped four teeth and had to have four stitches on my chin. There is a verj­uice scar there now on the under­neath part. Add to that a little dys­entery and you'll see that the sum­mer wasn't all roses." Tough break, fella—but I heard a story a lot worse. Be thankful that one wasn't true! 
That about closes the "news­flashes" for this month. We intend going out to school for the Navy game. To hold this up until then would only give out editors another headache, so we'll keep that dope un­til next time. We won't make the Army trip this year, but we would certainly appreciate the news on that event from some kind souls. 
Thanks much, gang, for the co­operation you've shown this early in the year. Let's keep it up for the next seven months. Our "whisper­ings" have to be in the office on the 20th—ergo about a week before that date we'd like to close our "thoughts for the month," and begin to put them in order for friend Dooley. 
Felicitations on your job, Paul Foley. 
Rocco Schiralli is married, accord­ing to i-ecent ivord from Father Dore. mus. No further details available at present! 
Frank Cass, in Buffalo, New York, has a new job with Chevrolet. 
14'^A Jolin Moran. 61 E. 95th St.. Apt. t. 
^'^ ^ New York City. 

All hopped up by the prospect of Army game thrills—by radio—^your 
November 1937 

chief scout, Moran, gets off this touchdown contribution: 
Gentlemen, your class secretary thanks you! I refer to the very grat­ifying response that follo%yed last month's appeal for more active co­operation and a great deal more up­to-the-minute news regarding your­self and your classmates. This col­umn is compiled by me solely for your information and personal bene­fit. Therefore, let me hear from you, even it it's only a postal card. My promise to answer all communica­tions, letter or card, still goes—so keep the postman busy. 
Personalities 
Seen at the Eastern All Start-Giants football game. Bill Smith, 1936 ex-captain. Smitty stated that he is coaching and teaching at Scott High School in East Orange, New-Jersey, while former roommate Pep­per Martin is filling a similar post in the local high school at Bound Brook, in the same state. Sal Commissa, it is rumored, has been doing some sub­stitute teaching in Newark, N. J. Cy Conner, "the Barefoot Wonder" of the Bengal Bouts, paid Bill a visit this summer, and now is probably coaching again at Ogdensburg, New-York. Break down and let your wrestling fans hear w-hat you are do­ing, Cy—and that also goes for your 
tivo-time opponent, Nick Tancredi, 
"the Son of Kong." 
At the September meeting of the New York alumni club. Bill Gillespie, N.D.'s gift to the Stock Exchange, stated that Andy Helmuth, deserted his real estate career in Springfield. Ohio, long enough to spend a few-days in New York this summer. Also present at the gatheiing were Andy Hufnagel, now with Northeast Engi­neering Co. in the Bronx; Walt Matusevich, with the engineering firm of Gibbs & Hill here in the metrop­olis; Jim Kirby, of Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery, Accountants; Bill Walsh, now in his second year at Fordham Law; and Bill Shea, who is connected with a factoring firm here in New York. 
Came across Homer Strickler, ex-Hoosier, while he was covering the American Legion Convention for the Sun. Also met Paul Krause in my wanderings around town. Paul was employed at Jones' Beach State Park all summer, but is now looking about for a teaching position. 
Bumped into Howie Cusack and John Donovan, '35, down in the arena of their future labors, the Supreme Court building. Both are entering their first year at Fordham Law-. Howie stated that he is absorbing the theoretical side of the law at night, and working for a law firm by day. 
Bud Goldman, whom I see regu­larly, may eventually become the fur­niture tj'coon of '36, as he has been oifered an excellent position in a high class firm specializing in metal fur­niture, etc. Bud's job tentatively calls for him to spend part of next winter in Miami Beach while the rest of us •will be banging on the radiators for the janitors to supply more steam. 
The Mailbag In this month's mail, besides sev­eral verj' welcome letters from some of you, was an important looking letter addressed to the "Secretary of the Class of 1936, University of Notre Dame." After tearing open the envelope with anxious fingers I discovered — an advertisement from some place in Wisconsin offering woolen blankets at half price!! 
Jack Skelly^ broke his long- silence to come through with a really grand letter. Thanks, Jack, and send along those names. I'll advertise for ad­dresses in this column. Jack writes that he \-sited the campus in Sep­tember and saw, among others, my ex-roommate Cliff Brown, who owes me a letter, Pat Malloy, Paul Di Gio­vanni, Bob Le Mire, Ed Hummer, Mark Gertz, Mike O'Connor, Al Heckler, all of whom are back for more knowledge. Also hack for an­other year is Luke Tiernan, who lost his father recently. The class joins me in extending condolences to Luke on his bereavement. 
Jack states that he saw Abe Shore who is doing public accounting in Chicago, and Justin O'Toole, who is dabbling in Chicago real estate with his brother. Other information from the same source is to the effect that Bill (Commerce) Smith is probably with Price Waterhouse, Chicago ac­countants, Ed Goldsmith is with the Hom e Modernizing Company in South Bend, Art Huber, formerly with the same firm, is now vrith Gen­eral Motors in Detroit, Gus Gonring is analyzing bonds for a bank in West Bend, Wisconsin, and Dale Lovell and Johnny Gorman are both work­ing for the Ball Band in Mishawaka. Also that Tommy Gorman is con­nected with a chemical firm in New Jersey, and Frank Martin is work­ing for Texaco in Fishkill, New York. Jack concludes with the information that he is doing accounting work for the Seversky Aircraft Corporation at Farmingdale, Long Island. 
Tommy Vicars contributes some more interesting chatter, picked up on his trip to Washington, D.C. in September. Tom reports that Ray Deely is now working for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, along 
with Bob Cavanaugh, and that John Maloney and John Whalen are going 
to Georgetown Law. Also seen in Washington were Gene Tobin, who joins me in the Internal Revenue Bu­reau, Jess Hawley, another govern­ment worker, and Wayne Millner, who is playing end for the Washing­ton Redskins. 
Tom reports that Art Vameau is working for a large retail department store in Grand Rapids, Michigan, that George Cannon is going to the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, and that Tom Bott is at Michigan Law this fall. Also that Jim Sherry has been going to General Motors Accounting School in Flint, Michigan, and that John Brog­ger is connected \vith Tom in the ac­counting firm of Seidman and Seid­man. Grand Rapids. 
From Frank "Doc" Murray, still at Cornell Med School here in New York, comes the following welcome chatter: "Doc" spent a few^ days this summer down in Louisville, Kentuc­ky, with "Colonel" Bob Burke, who is going to law school at Louisville. How about a letter occasionally. Col­onel, and let us know what our south­ern cousins are doing? "Doc" saw 
Bill Bowes, Paul Doyle, Tom Grady 
and several others while in Chicago for a visit this summer. Also Jim O'Keefe who is with his father in the coal business, Bert Baur, who is con­nected with the public semce there, and Jack Gleason, who spent the summer in Europe, and is now back at Harvard Business School. "Doc" passes on the information that Dan­ny O'Brien, has moved from Cleve­land, and is now connected with the 
(^•^ 
Peninsula Steel Co. of Chicago, that John O'Connor is selling insurance in St. Louis, that Bill Shakespeare is with the Aurora Steel & Die Co. of Aurora, Illinois, that Tony Maziotti is with the Deep Rock Oil Co. of Chi­cago, and that Ed Donahue is in his second year at Columbia Med School. Also that the Gabriel Brothers are at Jefferson Medical School in Phila­delphia. 
From Larry Palkovic, comes the information that he is isolated in Johliston, New York, where Notre Dame alumni are few and far be­tween. Larry says that in a recent trip around the country he saw George Ball in LeRoy, New York and Dick Samowski, from Amsterdam, New York. Also from the same source comes the news that Bill Saffa is a state trooper back in Oklahoma, and that Leo McFarland is athletic director at St. Mary's High in Lan­sing, Michigan. 
In the mail also was an envelope containing several clippings from the Fond du Lac Commomvealth Reporter relative to the wedding of Miss Ruth Thiel to Louie Lang. Congratula­tions to the newly-wed, who will, ac­cording to the paper, be at home after November 1, at 294 Ledgeview Avenue. 
BLACKHAWK HOTELS 
Convenierrtly located in business and amusement centers. Hotels of surpas­sing hospitality, where your guests may enjoy complete relaxation in quirt rooms, and delicious foods, served in air cooled restaurants. You can recom­mend any of the six Blackhawk Hotels with confidence. 
Outstanding  Service  
Luxurious  Comfort  
Moderate  Rates  
..fdi^_.  

BLnCKHPUJK HOTELS 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
And tliat wind*- up the correspond­ence for this month. I trust that a great many of you who liave been unreported since June 1!I3G will break down and come out of the woods. A line or two will do the trick. And give me time—I'll get around to answeiing your letters as soon as possible. 
Word comes that Jim McMulIen has been on the Miaiiu Herald, 3Ii­ami, Florida, since graduation, that he is married and has one child. 
Dan McLaughlin, who is at Min­nesota Law School, worked during the past summer as foreman of a construction gang in northern Jlich­igan. (Hochreiter dope.) 
Pat Dizenzo is teaching history and economics and is coaching baseball at the Hackensack, New Jersey, high school. Pat visited the campus just before school re-opened. 
Another i-ecent visitor was John Michuta, varsity tackle in '34, '3.5, and '3G. Johnny is athletic director at the West Bend, Wisconsin, high school. 
103 7 Secretary: P;ml Foley. H Miimpton Road. Crosse PoinTe. Michijjnii. 
[Eds' note: When this is printed your secretary will be well out from shore on that w. k. .Sea of Matri­mony (See "Marriages" this is.=:ue.) The congratulations and hearty best wishes of the class and the editors go with him. In view of that, this contribution is all the more remark­able.] 
It is regrettable to report that the local Jim Farley employee has not been staggering under the loa(i of daily mail to bring news of ]it37 gi-ads. In fact, to date w-e have re­ceived one genuine piece of infor­mation; one advertisement for double wool blankets from Deep Well, Wis­consin; one bid to join a univer.^ity club (at a stated figure); and one letter from a correspondence school, solicitous that we continue our edu­cation. The letter .strikes us as rather a discouraging note, all things considered. But such is tlie %alue of publicitj. 
On the credit side of the scale we have word from Robert L. Grogan, of the Ten-e Haute Grogans, that he is employed with the Grogan Oil Company, of Shreveport, Louisiana. The story of this collusion of the clan Grogan goes back to a day, and possibly a night or two in the Wal­dorf at New York. It is all rather complicated and involves the snarling of mail. A postcard to Grogan will bring ail the lurid details. 
Fi-om closer home comes word that Hank Ruen has become benedict. Hank was married late in June, and is now residing in Cleveland. It all 
sounded very romantic, the way we got it. 
John Byrne, one of the Terrible Ten, is apparently still in Phoeni.x­villo whence we leceived a very en­couraging wire recently. John gave no clue as to his activities since de­sei-ting Walsh's second floor. 
At Detioit is Bob Seigfried, late of Walsh Hall, he is connected with the Standard .A.ccident and Casualty company, and is said to be develop­ing a healthy respect for the Jlotor City. 
From Huntington, West Virginia, where they grow "You-alls," comes word that William F. Pye is work­ing with the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Co. 
Frank Geddes, according to all available I'eports, is still with the Commonwealth Edison company in their Chicago offices. It is said that Frank went out ringing doorbells after the Sox managed to knock off the Cubs in the city series. 
Another belated report from Chi­cago indicates that Arch Gott has hooked on with the International Harvester Co. We have had no late reports from the two-miler, but he was battling threshing machines and <lisc harrows when we last heard. 
There has been no word from such stalwarts as Gene Ely, .Joe Moore, Jim Waldron, Vince Hartnett, John Manning, et al. We wait with prac­tically baled breath. 
Tom Duccy is with General Elec­tric in Schenectady, New York, as a student engineer. 
Dick Dice is in Fort Wayne, Indi­ana, in the appliance division of the Brunswick-Balke-Callendar Beverage Cooler Co. He will move soon to the state of Washington if company plans materialize. 
Fred Gast is with the Te.xas Com­pany in Beacon, New York, along with Frank Martin, '3fi. When he was enrolling at Columbia for gradu­ate work Fred met John Shaw, who was doing the same thing. Later Fred met Chris Matthews, who is working at Macy's in New York. 
Lou Hickey and his brother, Tom, Jr., and A. C. Welsheimer hav e ojiened a new funeral home in South Bend at 403 Lincoln Way West. 
Charlie Dohnalek, of Chelsea, Iowa, passed the Iowa bar exam on October S; lie will receive his law degree in February. Charlie will be married to Miss Hildegard Bergman, South Bend, on Thanksgiving Day. 
Frank Frascati is a graduate stu­dent in petroleum engineen'ng at the University of Oklahoma, and is living at the Graduate Men's Club in Nor­man. 
PRESIDENT'S PAGE 
(Continued from Pa^e ;'.y) 

summed up by Cardinal Newman in the excerpt which appears on the first page of eveiy University bulletin.* 
As alumni we might well be guided by the principle "first things first." It has been remarked that when visi­tors see Notre Dame for the first time they are astonished by its atmosphere of ti-anquility and learning. It is hard for them to reconcile the visual impression with the mental image the}- had gleaned from i-eading the wrong kind of publicity. Those peo­ple leave the campus with a new atti­tude. This article appeals to our local alumni clubs in particular and to individual alumni in general to rise to this need. Not every friend or well-wisher of Notre Dame can visit the campus. 
It is up to us to erase the distorted version of what Notre Dame stands for, to introduce to the public at large the true Notre Dame we know —the Notre Dame which quickens in us a jealous regard for her good and great name, an unfaltering belief in what she has taught us, a conviction that she is the first school in the land. She has taught us the high and holy doctrines of our faith. She had bade us suffer lor the things we believe, oven as the founders of the Univer­sity suffered. She has sounded for us high notes of patriotism—the pa­ti-iotism of the soldier in war, of the upright citizen in jieace. She has given us wisdom an<l tried us with discipline—the wisdom of the philo­sophers, the discipline that radiates from the Cross. Small will be our credit if we follow the lesson and forget the teacher. So let us praise Notre Dame wherever men will listen, and let there be a living interest which will make her a sharer in our success. When we see the millions spent upon other colleges by grateful sons, surely we should be moved to do something for our Alma Mater. Let our remembrance be not merely the passing word of praise, but a con­stant effort to make the veal Notre Dame known throughout our countrv. 
' "Itrrc, then, I conrrii'c, is the object of the Ilolu Sec and the Catholic Church in setting up nniversities: it is to re-utiite things which were in the beginning joined together btj God. and have been put asunder bti niayt. . . It wilt not sattsftj ntc, what satisfies so viani/. to have two independent systems, intellectual and reli­gious, going at once side by side, btj a sort of division of labour, and only acridcntaUy brought together. It will not satisfy me, if religion is here, and science there, and young men converse icitli science all dag, and lodge with religion in the evening. . . . I wish the intellect to range with the utmost freedom, aiuf religion to enjoy an et/ual freedom, but what I ant stipulating Is, that they should be found in one and the same ^dace, and excm­pliftcd in the same persons,"—Cardinal Neuf­iiian. i*ii Sermon 1 of Sernnpus on t'arioijs Occasions. 







