The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

The Notre Dame 
ALUMNU 
Vol. 24 OCTOBER, 1946 iNo. 5 
Vost-War Notre Dame: A Small Group of Quarters for Married Veterans. There are 117 Such Units Just East of the Campus. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus and for all members of His Mystical 


AUufuU Re>Uai0444. BultetiH 
iBy REV. JOHJi P. iXSCO, C.8.C., 16 : 
A MISS AT MASS 
A non-Catholic girl once told me that she had been going to Mass every Sun­day for almost a year. When questioned, 
she knew nothing regarding th e doctrine of the Mass. She hadn't the faintest idea that bread and wine became the Body and Blood of Christ or that the Mass was the re-enactment o f Calvary. 
Father Lynch gh e certainly didn't know all the answers, yet the Mass had an irresistible attraction for her. "I don't get it," I told her. "The Mass must appear queer to a non-Cath­olic with the priest's unusual vestments, his back facing the audience, the lan­guage he uses. Tell me \yhy, if you can, you do go every Sunday. AVhat draws you?" 
"Well," she answered, "I feel absolute­ly sure that God somehow is there at every Mass. I've never felt God's pres­ence in any church except the Catholic Church at Mass time—and I've tried them all in years past." 
"All right, I can understand that, but," I queried further, "what do you do or what do you say at Mass?" 
Thoughtfully, slowly she explained, "I tell God I'm sorry for any thing I did during the past week that I think was wrong, or that offended or hurt Him or my family or neighbor or employer. Then I offer Him the coming week: my Work, ray troubles and worries. I tell Him I'm going to live for Him the coming week! I'm going to perform that whole week for love of Him as faithfully, as patiently and as charitably as I can. I'm very conscious then of His help throughout the week." 
WITH AND FOR CHHIST 
She hadn't understood the doctrine of the Mass but she had done a better thing. She had lived it. 
It is our privilege at every Mass to 
offer Christ to His Father and then to 
offer ourselves to God the Father through 
Christ and with Christ, His Son, who is 
our Brother. 
We are His brothers and sisters, mem­
bers of His Mystical Body, destined and 
privileged to carry on His life and work 
here on this earth, in a Christ-like man­
ner. 
Our whole life, every day, every act, 
should be an offering, should glorify God. 
St. Paul said it this way, "Whether you 
eat or drink or whatsoever else you do, 
do all for the glory of God." 
We don't have to limit that offering 
to Sunday's Mass either. We can do the 
same at daily Mass—and the next best 
thing is the daily Morning Offering. 
We've referred to it before but here 
again is that Morning Offering. 
"Jesus, throxigh the Immaculate Heart of Mary I offer Yon my prayers, works aiid sufferings of this day for all the i7ite7itions of thy Sacred Heart, in reparation for my sins and in union with the sacrifice of the Mass wherever it is being celebrated throughout the world." 
WORK BECpMJSS PRAYER 
We can thus unite ourselves and offer ourselves with Christ in Mass by inten­tion, if not by actual presence at Mass. Your Missal prayers reveal that Christ offers each Mass not alone but with Body. 
That prayer offers up ourselves, our work, our sufferings with Christ and to Christ in the Mass. It converts our whole day into a prayer to honor and glorify God—and also in reparation for past sins, thus reducing our time in Purga­
• tory. 
We should say it not once, but several times a day. 
Say it especially when we're up against a tough job, a disagreeable situation, a worry, trial or pain. 
We'll face that trial then as a brother of Christ should face it—Christ-like, 
We will have offered it to Him and with Him; and with Him, through Him and for Him we will face it, our cross, as He faced His, courageusly, patiently and with love. 
THE ELEVENTH COMMANDMENT 
October 4th is the feast of St. Francis of Assisi. He is known as the most joy­ous person ever to live on this earth. The secret of his happiness was his obedience to the 11th Commandment, "Never take yourself too seriously." 
His was a divine sense of humor. He didn't take himself too seriously. He took Christ alone seriously and others be­cause of Christ, 
The philosophy and secret of his joy is found in this pi-ayer, generally credit­ed to him: 
Lord, make vie an instrument of Thy peace; where there is hatred, let me soiv love; where there is doubt, faith; where there is despair, hope; where there is darkness, light; and ivhere there is sadness, joy. 
O Divine Master, grant that I may not so much seek to be consoled as to console; to be understood, as to understand; to be loved, as to love; for it is in giving that we receive, it is in pardoning that xve are par­doned, and it is in dying that we are bom to eternal life. 
The Ninth Annual 



Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday 
Sunday, December 8 

Feast of the Immaculate Conception • 
The "feast of the Immaculate Conception and Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday fail this year on the same day. In addition, 1946 is the centennial of the election of Mary Immaculate to be patroness of the United States. Altogether, you will agree, Sunday, Dec. 8, 1946, is a day for very special observance by Notre Dame men. 

Answer the challenge of these times! Go to Mary! 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This mairazine is published bi-monthly, by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. Entered as second class matter Octo­ber 1, 1939, at the PostoHice, Notre Dame, Indiana, under the ,act of August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alomni Council.  
lame s E. Armstrong. '25. Editor; William B. Dooley, '26. Managin g Editor  4::  
VOL. 24  fefcrOBER, 1946  iNO. 5  



4,489 Students Attending 
Even with Record Enrollment, Campus Has pre-War, Civilian Ap­pearance; Normal, Pre-War Student Activities Begin, Mostly on 
Enlarged 

Foi' the first time in five years cam­pus life at Notre Dame has reverted to normal appearance. Gone are the blues and the greens of the Navy and Marine Corps that predominated during the war years; gone the snappy measure of "Hup, two, three, hoh!" In place of the uniforms there are the corduroys and T-shirts, the bow tie and sport jacket; in place of the cadenced rhythm of marching steps are casual strollers and racing feet one minute after the bell. The "civilian" campus is once again ap­proaching the easy routine of normalcy. But there are some differences in this routine from that of other, pre-war, years. 
Early on the morning of Sept. 9 reg­istration crowds began forming. At first there weren't more than a few score de­teimined students but within a short 

 Scale; Veterans and Their Families Add 
while the number swelled until hundreds packed the entrance to the Administra­tion Building. This was a rejuvenation of the well-known service game played by veteran and non-veteran alike— "Hurry up and wait." 
Lines formed everywhere—at the en­trance of the Administi-ation building, at the former Navy administration build­ing, newly named the Social Science building, and at the University laundry and dining halls. The longest and most tiring lines, by far, were those before the entrance of the Administration and the Social Science buildings. At the former, the 4,489 registered students, an increase of about 900 over the 1946 spring se­mester and an all-time high, received their class cards; the 3,400 veterans, about 1,800 more than last semester, were welcomed by the most beseiged office 

 New Note. 
on the campus—^the Office of Yeterans' -Affairs, which is headed by. Rev.. John 
J. Lane, C.S.C. The Social Science build­ing, immediately wiest of Kockne Mem­orial, housed a special contingent of VA officials from Indianapolis, here to ex­pedite matters for the veterans. 
Although final tabulations are incom­plete, the Colleges of Arts and Letters and Commerce, each with an approxi­mate enrollment of 1,200, again, in the traditional manner, boast the largest en­rollment. Then come the Colleges of Engineering, 1,100, Science, 530 and Law, 200. Law school enrollment nearly doubled that of previous years and the 240 registrants of the Graduate School also represented a 100 per cent increase over last semester. 
That an unprecedented number of students had enrolled for the first con-
Another of those registralion day long lines, this one in the Main Building. Dean McCarthy and Professor Davis register Commerce men. 
Students receive Communion at Mass marking ionnal opening oi schoolyear. 
ventional post war school year was fur­ther emphasized by the avalanche of let­ters and telegrams pouring into the ho­tels of South Bend and \icinity. The crowds clamoring for rooms were greater than those of any football weekend. Stu­dents and families crowded tourist homes and trailer camps or discovered tempor­ary housing facilities elsewhere. Cots were in evidence in the Gold, Blue, Vene­tian and Rotary rooms of the Oliver Hotel but even this expedient was in­sufficient. Many were overcoming the problem by commuting from Niles, Mish­awaka and other surrounding towns where they had procured rooms. • 
On the campus the acute "housing" shortage was also in evidence. Overnight conversion of single rooms into doutles and doubles into triples were vivid re­minders of crowded service barracks. WTiere, in by-gone days, sin:jle roomed students struggled alone with problems in calculus or English compooition, they now shared their texts and assignments with one or two others. A degree of re­lief is promised in the near future with the completion of Farley Hall, named after Father John "Pop" Farley, late rector of Sorin Hall. The fine, Gothic structure, located north of Breen-Phil­lips Hall will contain room for 215 stu­dents, thereby relieving cramped condi­tions in other halls. 
Classrooms and laboratory facilities are being extended to the fullest, and ground has-been broken for an addition to the Architecture building. The 30 -• Science building are serving as addi­tional classrooms, where peacetime sub­jects of Languages, Economics and His­tory replace wartime Naval Gunnery, Navigation and related subjects. 
Opening of the scholastic year is syn­onomous ^\^th the football season official­ly welcomed by the distribution of stu­dent A-books. A hitherto unpracticed fea­ture will be the unique seating arrange­ment planned for the wives of students. Thanks to Herb Jones and Bob Cahill of the ticket office, special ducats are made available to students and their wives en­abling them to sit together during home games. .A. touch of feminine color and added In'sh enthusiasm will be adjacent 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
to the regfular student section toward 
the end zone. 
And, with the advent of football sea­son, attention is momentarily diverted to the University band, an indispensable portion of Notre Dame gridiron tradi­tion. The musical aggregation represent­ing the school this year should be the finest since its formation in 1868. Also, for the first time in several years, the football audiences will see the 100-mem­ber band wear the traditional shamrock upon the tops of their caps as they en­tertain during half time periods. The new blue and gold band uniforms wll not be ready for distribution this fall, but delivery is promised early this winter. 
A unique feature of the booming Mu­sic Department is the fonnatjon of a freshman band—a feature making its de­but this fall. The freshman band was begun as a result of the large number of students applying for band member­ship. Of 160 aspirants more than 90 per cent are veterans. In view of the over­all display of interest, the Music De­partment is planning a series of band concerts and road trips for the Univers­ity orchestra and g'lee club. 
That the study of serious music is be­coming increasingly popular is attested by.the fact that this year the number of ehroiled music majors is 400 per cent greater than that of the previous se­mester. 
AVartime shortages and restrictions continue to harass the contemplated re­turn to campus normalcy. In view of the current meat famine the menu can­not boast a wide and frequent variety of meats but, despite the shortages, the "dining halls maintain a balanced diet and continue serving via the war-time adopt­ed cafeteria. style. 
The-shortages of soap and personnel 
(Continued on P.ige 17) 

rooms of the newly acquired Social A close-iip oi one bi the new veteran houses near the campus. 
Volume 24, No. 5, October, 1946 
Climaxing the meeting o! the Alumni Board in Cleveland on Sept. 18-19 was the Cleveland Club's testimonial dinner in the Cleveland Hotel in honor of Rev. Michael L. Moriarty, '10, a Board member who last June received an honorary LL.D. fro m the University. Father Moriarty now pastor of St. Catherine's Church, Cleveland, has long been one o! the staunchest supports of the Cleveland Club. 
Chief speaker at the dinner was the guest of honor. Other speakers were Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, '23, presi­dent of the University. Governor Harry F. Kelly, '17, of Michigan, and Thomas F. 
Byrne, '28, president of the Alumni Asso­ciation. In the name of the Alumni Board, Tom Byrne presented Father Moriarty with a handsomely executed picture of Notre Dame's dome. Ray T. Miller, '15, presided at the dinner and Msgr. Richard I. Pat­terson of Cleveland was the toastmasier. John J. Reidy, '27. was chairman of the committee in charge. 
Among those seated at the head table for the dinner were members of the Altmi­ni Board and officers and committee chodrmea of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. Left to right, in the picture are Tom Enright, '33, Ed Schroeter, '40. 
Brother Theophane. C.S.C, .'3S. Tzaak Payne, '39. Rev. lames T. Moran. '27. Thomas C Byme. '37. president of the Cleveland Club. Gerald Aahe. '22. Joha 
T. Bolfe. '% Goveinor Kelly. Father Car­rimouglu'.^auw^Monarty. Msgr. Patterson. Ray teller; \Tom'^jgYm'e (the other on*). Jolm PI >Ffiitpky«i '12; '|oanes E. Armstrong. '25. Ms^4 M^^ e if: (Gnifin. '04. RL Rev. Abbot Thei^ra [K ^ {6.SJ„ William B. Dboley. '2jS. ^ h % JO'NeiU. '17. Msgr. Thomcm V: S^mmra; iE; Bradley BoilaT. '22, dnd 161^ Ti KiigiaM. '22. WilHom J. Mooiiey, 'IS. also a'Board member, had to leave for hisiteme in IndianapoBa be­fore the dinheri ^ > y,-• 

Club Presidents Will Be at N. D., W§ 29-30 
Alumni Board at Cleveland on September 18-19 Votes Conference of '^V 
Club Leaders to Spearhead Reconversion and Expansion of Entire Aluinni ;;. f' 
Program; Enrollment, Football Tickets Among Olher Matters Considered; ) JC 
Alumni Club presidents w-ill be brought to Notre Dame on Nov. 29-30 at the ex­pense of the Alumni Association, and en­tertained by the University, with accom­modations in (?ai'roll Hall and meals in the University Dining Halls. 
This unprecedented decision was not sudden or without long hours of discus­sion in previous Board meetings. It stems from the conviction of the Board, shared by the University, that the Local Clubs are the outposts of the University. The Club membership represents the most comprehensive channel for the pres­entation and understanding of the Uni­versity's problems. The Clubs present the most natural chain of organization in the carrying out of the broad program of the Alumni Association. 
It was after the presentation of an agenda based on the increased scope of the Association under the new constitu­tion, and after Eev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, president of the University, had expressed his belief in the necessity for closer understanding of University prob­lems by alumni, that the Board decided upon this immediate and imposing pro­gram. 
The Club presidents will meet on Fri­day noon, Nov. 29, and the program will cover the reconversion and expansion of Club activities. The plan is to complete the business meetings on Friday and leave the delegates free on' Saturday for individual Club questions, and for the enjoyment of the Notre Dame-Southern California game, before they return to put the broader Club program into ac­tion. 
Club presidents have been asked to contact past presidents and other officers and members of their Clubs to determine suggested topics for discussion. These, presented in advance, will be summarized in the limited period available, and a ma­jor effort will be made to unify and aid the Clubs to develop a comprehensive program within themselves, of benefit to the Club and its fflembers, to the Associa­tion, and to tKe'lUniyersity. Service to Club mlemberl is tke number one objec­tjtertK^gii the Clubs, through the As­sociation, and through the University's cooperation. A number of types of pro­jects will be introduced embodying this objective. 
Enrollment 

The Board reviewed the University's enrollment problems as presented by. Father Cavanaugh. Unprecedented con­ditions resulted in many situations dis­appointing to individual alumni, in the enrolling of friends and relatives. But it appears from the report and the dis­cussions that the University observed the recommendation of the June meeting of the Board in the great majority of cases involving sons of alumni. The Board at its September meeting urged again that the "Notre Dame family" concept on a 
The Notre Dcane Alumnus 
broader basis even, be made a considera­tion of enrollment wherever it does not interfere seriously with the academic standards or the physical limitations of the University. 
Football Tickets 
Herbert E. Jones, business manager of athletics, reviewed the 1946 ticket situa­tion with the Board at the Cleveland meeting. While it appears as the season opens that eight of Notre Dame's nine games will be sellouts, the major problem is the Army-Notre Dame game in New York. 
Here again, despite many alumni dis­appointments, and despite the appear­ance of technicalities and the seeming use of ticket preference as a "sanction" for Fund contributions, the basic situa­tion in football tickiets in 194G is all in favor of Notre Dame alumni. Notre Dame alumni have by far the bulk of the tickets alloted to Notre Dame for the Army game. The public, long the dominant factor in attendance at this game, have been left, under the 1946 plan for alumni, with a relative handful of tickets for friends who have supported the game, some of them from its birth in 1913, some from' its New York debut in Ebbets Field, many from the last decade and more in the Yankee Stadium. 
The fundamental of the 1946 alumni plan, asked for by the Alumni Associa­tion on the suggestion of many members, guaranteed four tickets to alumni be­tween August 1 and Sept. 15, if (and it was necessary to use some yardstick in order to arrive at a workable figure) the contribution of the alumnus to the Fourth Annual Fund was on record by July 1. The Fund does not exist for tick­et preference, nor ticket preference for the Fund. But the need for some classify­ing agency, to set up a ticket preference at all, indicates the use of some tangible measurement, and our only tangible evi­dence for the general alumni gr»up is the Annual Alumni Fund. 
The fundamental guarantee has been adhered to for the Army and for all other games. Additional tickets ordered have been subject.to conditions that have varied, mostly in-the direction of inabil­ity to supply as the result of the record-breaking demands, for all games. One major disappointment for everyone was the estimate of a margin of Army tick­ets between the" "guaranteed block and the ordered block, within the 1946 plan. The block ordered: was so universal and prompt that it completely eliminated the anticipated marginal block, upon which 
the Athletic Department had tentatively held a number of alumni orders for addi­tional Army tickets, which were, as a result, necessarily returned. 
From the report at the Cleveland meeting, some modifications in the 1946 plan will have to be made in 1947, large­ly in the field of the date of mailing for applications, and the dates of sale to alumni. These changes will be given ade­quate publicity. 
The New Approach 
It was 25 years ago this September that your Alumni Secretary entered No­tre Dame as a freshman. It has been my good fortune to have been on the campus all the subsequent years. On the basis of this close association I venture a few obsei-%'ations for your serious considera­tion. 
Notre Dame, in this period, under Father Matthew Walsh, under Father Charles O'Donnell, under Father (now Bishop) John O'Hara, under Father Hugh O'Donnell, has met the challenges of many changes. 
The University has grown physically. But the boundaries of brick have only been widened to contain the spreading borders of the academic, the spiritual and the cultural life of the University. 
Students have of course kept pace with the tempo ot the half dozen undergrad­uate generations encompassed in this quarter century. They are new and alert and informed as each year brings new blood. 
But in two major fields we have been hard pressed to show proportionate pro­gress. 
One field has been in the alumni pro­gram. The other field has been the finan­cial program. 
It is my conviction that now, as a new University president faces new problems, in an era of even greater challenges, we are on our way to easing his solution of them with a development that promises to be, this time, without exception. 
The Alumni Association, thanks to a wartime Board of Directors of unequal­led devotion and ability, enters this era with a long-range program of represent­ative activity, implemented by the An­nual Alumni Fund. And the financial problems of the University have received much encouragement from the aid of this Fund, and from the larger program of the public relations department which has reflected the stimulus of alumni in­terest and giving in an unprecedented record of financial support from non-alumni friends. 
If the alumni, through the Alumni As­sociation, and through the Clubs, sup­port the various facets of the new pro­gram, Notre Dame should continue at an increasing pace to produce the Chris­tian leadership for which it was founded and for which a frantic world now knocks at our doors. 

ACS MEETS IN CHICAGO 
Scientists from Notre Dame had prom­inent parts at the annual convention of 

'- the. American Chemical Society, which closed its five-day session in'Chicago on Sepfc 13. , 
Dr.'Charles C. Price, head of the Chemistry Department at Notre Dame, received the American Chemical Society's Award in Pure Chemistry for 1946, which is awarded annually to the most promising American chemist under 36 years of age. Dr. Price also delivered the award address, entitled "Some Polar Factors Affecting the Properties of Un­saturated Compounds," on Sept. 10 be­fore the Division of Organic Chemistry. 
Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell presented a paper before the Medicinal Division, dis­cussing the continuation of his antima­larial studies at Notre Dame. These studies have produced four important antimalarial medicines, which are now undergoing clinical tests. 
Drs. P. L. Benton and W. H. Hamill presented a paper before the Organic Division on "Quantitative 'Volumetric Analysis of Carbon-Bonded Halogen with Sodium Naphthalene." Brother Columba Curran, C.S.C, discussed before the Physical Division two papers dealing with the ultraviolet and infra red ab­sorption spectra .of organic compounds. Dr. P. A. McCusker described to the In­organic Division some researches on sil­icon and carbon halides. 
Dr. Milton Burton presented before the Physical Division a paper on "The Effects of High Energy Radiation on Organic Compounds." He also presided at a symposium on Radiation Chemistry. 
Among the other members of the De­partment of Chemistry at Notre Dame who participated in the convention de­liberations were: Dr. Christopher L. Wil­son, distinguished British chemist who has just joined the Notre Dame faculty, Drs. George F. Hennion,, Nathan Blau and Andrew J. Boyle *id Rev, T. J. Lane, C.S.C. 
Notre Dame chemical alumni held a luncheon at the Morrison Hotel in Chi­cago on Sept. 12, in connection with the convention. More than fifty persons at­tended the luncheon. The arrangements were made by Dr. James P. Danehy of the Com Products Co., Chicago, and Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell of the University. 
At the speakers' table were seated Drs. Campbell, Price, Wilson and Burton of the University, Dr. Danehy, Rev. Joseph 

P. McGrath, C.S.C, and Dr. W. S. Cal­cott of the du Pont Company. Dr. Camp­bell presided, and said that plans were under way to have a similar luncheon in connection with the next American Chemical Society convention, to be held in Atlantic City in April, 1947. 
Membership of Local Coimcil Announced 
Father John Cavanaugh Makes Known Names of 'Seven Priests of the Congregation Who Will Assist Him in Administering the Af­fairs of the University: Father Sweeney in Charge of Alumni Matters. 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, presi­dent, has announced the new membership of the Local Council, an executive group consisting of seven prominent priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross, to ad­vise and assist him in administering university affairs. 
The new Local Council will consist of Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C, vice-presi­dent; Rev. William R. Robinson, C.S.C, assistant religious superior; Rev. J. Howard Kenna, C.S.C, director of stud­ies; Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C, business manager and University stewart; Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C, director of stu­dent affairs; Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C, executive assistant to the presi­dent; Rev. John J. Reddington, C.S.C, purchasing agent and superintendent of construction. 
Their duties on the Council will be as follows: Father Murphy will assist the president on all matters concerning the University, while Father Robinson will handle ecclesiastical assignments of priests and brothers attached to the Uni­versity, of whom Father Cavanaugh is the religious superior. Father Kenna is to direct all academic affairs. Father Burke, business and financial affairs. Father Kehoe, the extra curricular activities of the students, and Father Sweeney, public relations and alumni affairs. 
Father Murphy was appointed vice-president last July. (See August, 1946, ALUMNUS). Father Robinson comes from Lafayette, Ind. He was graduated from Notre Dame in 1920, after which he received his Ph. D. and S.T.D. degrees from the Gregorian University at Rome, in 1923 and 1927, respectively. From 1927 to 1939 he taught dogmatic theology at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C, where he was assistant superior. After serving as master of novices at Holy Cross Novitiate, Rolling Prairie, Ind., he was appointed president of St. Edward's University at Austin, Tex. in 
1943. He returned to Notre Dame in July to take his present assignment. 
Father Kenna, who was bom at Clon­traf, Minn., became acting director of studies at Notre Dame in November, 1944. and director of studies in July, 1945. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1926 and was ordained at Notre Dame in 1930. After studying for the priest­hood at Holy Cross College, Washington, 

D. C, he taught mathematics at Holy Cross Seminary, Notre Dame, until 1933. For the next three years he did graduate work at Johns Hopkins University. He was named head of the department of mathematics at Notre Dame in 1936. The following year he was appointed superior of Moreau Seminary, Notre Dame, con­tinuing as such until he was named acting director of studies. 
Father Burke returned to Notre Dame last summer following more than two years active service as a Navy chaplain in World War II, during which he was stationed at the Naval Medical Center, Bethesda, Md., and then on the U.S.S. Pennsylvania. Bom at Montreal, Quebec, he was graduated from Notre Dame in 1932 and ordained in 1936. He had taught economics at Notre Dame and had served as director of student affairs prior to his naval sei^ice. After finish­ing high school he worked for five years as a bank clerk before entering college. 
Father Kehoe, who is a native of Paterson, N. J., was graduated from Notre Dame in 1933. He studied for the priesthood at Holy Cross College, Wash­ington, D. C, and was ordained in 1939. He received an M.A. degree from Notre Dame in 1941 and taught economics at Notre Dame until he was named acting director of student affairs in June, 1944. His appointment as director of student affairs was announced in July, 1946. 
Father Sweeney was born in Tacoma, Wash., and attended school at Portland, Ore., before entering Notre Dame, from which he was graduated in 1930. Or­dained in 1934, he spent the next four years studying at the Gregorian Uni­versity, Rome, receiving a J.C.D. degree. He taught moi-al theology and canon law at Holy Cross College, Washinjgrton, D. C, from 1938 to July, 1946, when he was appointed executive assistant to the President, and coordinator of public re­lations and alumni affairs. He also studied law at the Catholic University of America, and in 1945 was admitted to the Federal Bar at Washington, D. C. 
A native of Anderson, Indiana, Father Reddington was graduated from Notre Dame in 1923. He spent more than four years ^\-ith the General Motors Corpora­tion before returning to Notre Dame to begin studying for the priesthood. After four years at Holy Cross College, Wash­ington, D. C, he was ordained in 1934. He spent the next year as chaplain and in teaching at the Gibault Home, Terre Haute, Ind. He has been director of purchases and superintendent of con­struction at Notre Dame ever since. For the last several years he also has super­vised-the ..7,000, acres in Michigan and WiAcpiVsin left 'to^i&e iUjiiyersity by the late Maftin J. QiHCT; 'IJ'^er and phi­lanthropist. ,7 


' HEARST FELLOWSHIPS 

Four fellowships in American history, to be known as the Hgarat; Foundation Fellowships in Americam'-Bistory, have been established by the University. 
The fellowships were established from the income of the ?100>P00igift presented to Notre Dame early this;-year by the Hearst Foundation. ^^f 
Recipients of the four fellowships each will receive a stipend of $500 plus tuition and fees which \^11 total $1,000 during the schoolyear. The fellowships each are for a period of one schoolyear and may be renewed providing the work of the recipients is satisfactory. 
Establishment of the Hearst Founda­tion Fellowships in American History, a part of the postwar expamsion and de­velopment of the Graduate;_School at Notre Dame, will enable recipients to carry on extensive and genuine research into the field of American history which has long been a rich tradition at Notre Dame. 

NEW LANGUAGE HEAD 

Prof. Walter M. Langford, '30, has been appointed head of the Department of Modem Languages at the Univers­ity. 
Professor Langford, who has-been a ' member of the faculty at Notre Dame since 1931, succeeds Prof. Earl Lang-well, who resigned, recently Htp enter private business. After receiviiig his A.B. degree from Notre Dame in; 1930, Ro ­fessor Langford was awarded,his M.M.L. degree from the Universidaid de Mexico in 1937. He is a native of-Hiskell, Tex. 
Professor Langwell, who .taught French at Notre Dame, had been^ "a: member of the Notre Dame faculty .since 1930 and was appointed head of {the; Department of Modem Languages in:^1940. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

New Faculty Members Named 
Record Enrollment Increases Teachins Staff for 1946-47. 
to be assistant professor of Mathe­matics; Dr. Archie J. MacAlpin, former­ly field geologist with the United States Geological Survey, to be assistant pro­fessor of Geology; Norman B. Hasser, '43, former Army officer, to be instructor in Mathematics; Paul S. Stokely, M.S., '44, to be instructor in Biology; Dr. Rus­sell R. Williams, Jr., of the Clinton Lab­oratories, Knoxville., Tenn., to be instruc­tor in Chemistry; Dr. H. S. M. Coxeter, of the University of Toronto, to be visit­ing professor in the Department of Mathematics, and Arthur L. Stevens, of the University of Portland, to be re­search associate in Biology. 
CHEMISTS MEET AT N. D. 
Invaluable contributions made by the nation's scientists to the national de­fense of the United States were spot­lighted at a special four-day conference of more than 150 leading scientists, held at Notre Dame in early September. 
Dr. Paul D. Bartlett, professor of Chemistry at Harvard University, was chairman of the conference, while Dr. Charles C. Price, head of the Depart­ment cf Chemistry at Notre Dame and 1946 recipient of the American Chemical Society Award in Pure Chemistry, was chairman of the committee on arrange­ments. 
The scientists were welcomed to Notre Dame by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, president, who told of Notre Dame's contributions to science. 
Speakers at the conference included Dr. Saul Winstein, professor of Chemistry at the University of California at Los Angeles; Dr. W. H. Urry, professor of Chemistry at the University of Chica­go; Dr. F. E. Mayo, of the chemical de­partment, U. S. Rubber Company; Dr. 
F. H. Westheimer, professor of Chemis­try at the University of Chicago; Dr. Louis P. Hammett, professor of Chemis­try at Columbia University; Dr. Herbert C Drown, professor of Chemistry at Wayn3 University; Dr. G. W. Wheland, professor of Chemistry at the University of Chicago; Dr. Bartlett and Dr. Price. 
Among other distinguished scientists who participated in the discussions were Dr. F. C. Whitmore, dean of Chemistry, Penn State College; Dr. C R. Hauser, Duka University; Dr. W. G. Young, U.C.L.A.; Dr. J. W. Church, Columbia University; Dr. A. H. Corwin, head of the Department of Chemistry, Johns Hopkins University; Dr. A. C Cope, head of the Department of Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Dr. G. B. Bachman, Purdue University; and Dr. A. E. Renick, Wayne Univer­sity. 
Due to the unprecedented enrollment at Notre Dame for the fall semester, 48 additional teachers have been added to the faculty, it was announced by Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C, director of studies. 
Dr. Arnold Ephrain Ross, one of the 

• nation's most prominent mathematicians, has been appointed head of the Depart­ment of Mathematics. Dr. Ross comes to Notre Dame after 12 years as associate professor of mathematics at St. Louis University. He received his Bachelor of Science degree in 1928, his Master of Science degree in 1929, and his Doctor of Philosophy degree in 1931, all from the University of Chicago. Dr. Ross suc­ceeds Dr. Karl Menger, who resigned to join the faculty at the Illinois Institute of Technology in Chicago. 
Thirteen priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross have been assigned to teaching positions on the faculty. These appointments include; Rev. William H. Robinson, former president of St. Ed­ward's-University, Austin, Texas, as an assistant professor of philosophy; Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C, former army chaplain, assistant professor of econom­ics; Rev.; 'John D. Gallagher, C.S.C, formerly at St. Edward's, instructor in music; Rev. Thomas J. Lane, C.S.C, also formerly at St. Edward's, instructor in chemistry. 
Serving as instructors in religion are: Rev. Joseph H. Cavanaugh, Rev. Casi­mir J. Czaplicki, Rev. William J. Do­heny. Rev. Paul E. Fryberger, Rev. El­mer G. Gross, Rev. Joseph E. Haley, Rev. Albert L. Schlitzer, Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, and Rev. Robert H. Sweeney. 
Other new faculty appointments are: 
College of Law: Louis L. Roberts, former city attorney of Evansville, Ind., and former colonel,. Army Air Forces, to be professor; Harold Gill Reuschlein, former colonel, Office of the Judge Ad­vocate Genera], United States Army, to be professor; Dr. Anton-Hermann Chroust of the Harvard Law School, to be associate professor; Bernard J. Feen­ey, A.B., '39, to be instructor; and James 
F. Thornburg, to be instructor. College of Arts and Letters: William 
0. 'Shanahan, former lieutenant com­mander in the Navy, and former Notre Dame professor, to be professor of His­tory; i>T. Francis J. Brown, former Army .occupational counsellor at Fort Devensi, Mass., to be assistant professor of Economics; Dr. Aloysius B. Caponigri of the University of Iowa, to be assistant professor of Philosophy; William J. Bl-
sen of Northwestern University, to be 
assistant professor of Speech; Rev. S'peer 
Strahan, A.B., Notre Dame, '17, former 
chief chaplain. Veterans Administra­
tion, San Francisco, assistant professor 
of English. 
Dr. Paul E. McLane of Seattle 
(Wash.) College, assistant professor of 
English; Robert D. Nuner, former ma­
jor. Military Intelligence, instructor in 
Modern Languages; William B. Mur­
ray, A.B., '32 assistant prefect of discip­
line at Notre Dame, to be instructor in 
Sociology; Loren J. Hess, A.B., '33, A.M., 
'36, former captain in the Army and 
volunteer instructor in the first college 
conducted by the Anny overseas, known 
as the "University of the South Pacific," 
to be instructor in Sociology; Colonel 
Robert Duncan Brown, former colonel. 
Military Intelligence, to be instructor in 
History; Frederick Stanley Beckman, 
B.F.A., '42, former staff artist. Army Air 
Forces, to be instructor in Fine Arts; 
Rev. John Fitzsimmons of Liverpool, 
England, to be instructor in Religion; 
and Frederick B. Govern of Stamford 
Central School, Stamford, Conn., to be 
instructor in Speech. 
Colleg e of Commerce: Professor Brooks Smeeton, of Indiana University, a nationally-known authority on adver­tising and marketing, to he assistant pro­fessor of Marketing; Thomas T. Mur­phy, of Holy Cross College, to be associ­ate professor of Accounting; Joseph J. Miller B.S.C, '41, LL.B., '42, former lieu­tenant. United States Navy, to be in­structor in Business Administration; John B. Morgan, B.S.C, '40, former lieu­tenant, United States Navy, to be in­structor in Accounting, and William E. Slowey, a 1946 graduate of Notre Dame, to he instructor at large. 
College of Engineering: Dr. Ettore A. Peretti, of Columbia University, to be associate professor of Metallurgy; Leroy 
D. Graves, until recently a civil engineer with the Army Engineers, to be assistant professor of Civil Engineering; and Her­man S. Altman, B.S. Min.E., '41, former lieutenant. United States Navy, to be in­structor in Engineering. 
College of Science: Dr. Allen S. Smith, research director of the Blaw-Knox div­ision, Blaw-Knox Co., Ann Arbor, Mich., to be professor of Chemical Engineering; Dr. Christopher L. Wilson, industrial re­search director of Ashtead, Surrey, Eng­land, to be professor of Chemistry; Dr. Joseph P. LaSalle, of Cornell University, 

Volume 24, No. 5, October, 1946 
Two Catholic Action Study Groups Miet 
Delegates from 20 Catholic Colleges and Universities Take Part in One Session; 200 Seminarians from All Over U.S. Participate in Other;' Canon Cardijn of Belgium Is Speaker. 
Notre Dame's place as one of the country's chief centers of Catholic Action organizational activity was emphasized in late August and early September when two large groups met on the campus at different times. 
One gi'oup was made up of debgates from 20 Catholic colleges and univer­sities who participated in a Study Week which was under the joint auspices of Youth Division of the National Catholic Welfare Conference, the National Federation of Catholic College Students and the Young Catholic Students of Notre Dame. 
The other group was made up of 200 seminarians representing many dioceses and communities throughout the United States. These also partici­Catholic Actiqii'students combine a gieot deal of atudr with a lot of fun.. 
pated in a Study Week. If Catholic Action is to succeed, Cath­For Catholic Actionists on the college of Catholic Action oh each campus were olic Actionists must "meet their neigh­level the ideal place to put this message, bulletin boards, typed or mimeographed bors in the market place and win their he continued, woiald be in their own campus "gossip" columns, posters and respect there," Clem Lane, veteran news­newspaper. If such a newspaper is im­radio programs emanating from the paperman, said in a talk during the practicable at present, he suggested that campus. 
students' Study Week on Sept. 8. 
they make use of regular student pub­"Is this sacrilege?" he. asked; "Certain­Mr. Lane is city editor of the Chicago lications on each campus to get their ly not. St. Philip Neri-was not above Daily Neivs and president of the Men's message across. cutting a caper to win a Jsoul for God. 
Federation of Catholic Action Cells of St. Thomas.More went to his death with Chicago. Emphasizing the purpose of Mr. Lane also suggested paid adver­a wisecrack on his lips. .Christ himself Catholic Action — the participation of tising campaigns in student newspapers, ^yas wont to put the Bharisees in the the laity with the clergy in winning where possible. In addition, he 'urged biicket with a bit of verbal swift pitch­souls for Christ—Mr. Lane said, in part: YCS members to "wangle a bit of space 
ing- ';:i^ .r;; "If our judgment and our leadership 
from student editors to tell your story; 
"One of the finest thiiigS; I've. ever are respected in the things of this world, 
get a quotation from a star fullback 
heard about the value of frequent Com­we can make others listen when we want 
on the value of the service; let someone 
munion was said, i not by a priest: or a to talk of things not of this world. 
else sing your praises." 
religious, but by a hardbitten newspaper­That's the massage. Where are we going Other practical means suggested by 
man—Edwin A. Lahey, the gr«it.labor to put it?" Mr. Lane for disseminating the message 
reportei:. 
"'Starting the day with Mass. and Communion,' said Eddie, 'is like getting the'guy on third base with nobody out.'" 
Other speakers at the Study Week in­cluded Msgr. Reynold Hillenbrand of Hubbard Woods, 111., former rector of Mundelein-Seminary, archdiocese ..of Chi­cago; Rev. Charles Berminghaniii director of the Youth Division of the N.G.W.C; Rev. E. Vincent Mooney,, C.S.C.,; youth leader and former Army chaplain; Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, CiSX., chaplain of the Veterans Club at Notre Dame, and Rev. Robert Sheehan, C.S.C.,:head of the Biology Department at Nptre Dame. 
Also: Patrick O'Meara of Notre Dame, president, Robert Shea of'St. Bonaven­ture's College, vice president, and Mar­garet Conway of the Youth Division, N.C.W.C., executive secretary, all of the 
A C A. football team featuring Father Hesburgh at left guard. National Federation of Catholic College 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Dr. Caparo; Retires From Teaching 
yas Title of Professor Emeri­tus of Electrical Engineerins 
Students; Martha Finke, St Mai-y's Col­lege, Holy Cross, Ind.; Harriet Bridges, Loyola University (Chicago); Joseph Devoy, St. John's University (Brook­lyn) ; Joseph Jareth, St. Benedict's Col­lege (Kansas); Carl Schmidt, Catholic University of America; Leo Miedler, University of Detroit; Thomas Hamilton, University of Dayton £ and Elaine Mul­cahey of Nazareth College (Rochester, 
N. Y.). The greatest danger to Christianity today is that" the working classes know little or nothing of the social doctrines of the Church, Canon Joseph Cardijn of Brussels,' Belgium, founder of the Young Christian Workers (Jocist) Move­ment in Eiirope, said in a speech to the seminarians. Canon Cardijn is said to have done more to stem the tide of Com­munism, Fascism and Nazism in Europe than nearly any other living man. Stressing the need of educating work­ers, and especially young workers, in the social doctrines of the Church, Canon Cardijn declared that in Belgium and France children start work at the age of 14. That is the age, and continuing through 25, that they need the most education arid help to avoid succumbing to the false, philosophy of Communism and othier dangerous "isms," he added. Otherwise, too, he declared, these young workers would be too immature to do other'than accept existing conditions in industry. Canon Cardijn told of the beginnings of the Jocist movement in Belgium in 1912. Having seen that workers were being exploited, and were powerless to do anything about it, he undertook the task-of restoring workers to their proper dignity and helping them to achieve the 
social justice which the Church teaches is their just duel 
Actinjg on the principle that "the work­ing youth alone, ^cannot. save himself; the working youth must be'organized," he began the education of -woi-kers in 1912. .Within ten . years, he had 100,­000 militant meiiibers in Belgium alone. The movement has grown until now it is active in fifty countries'of the world, and thousands of new militant members are being won every-year, he said. 
Canon Cardijn emphasized that the Jocist movement is not enough to combat Communism, but that it must be a posi­tive Christian movement to "form" young workers and enable them to find themselves, thus thwarting Communism. 
•"Communism," he asserted, "is inter­national arid very strong, but we can have a stronger and 'niore influential organization than the Communists. Com­munists realize that the Jocists are the best-organized intematiorial movement in the world." 
Dr. Jose Angel Caparo, "08, for 33 years a member of the faculty at Notre Dame, and for all thaftiiSSe one of the University's most admired, influential and widely-known teachers, has retired with the title of professor emeritus of Electrical Engineering. 
Dr. Caparo was professor of Electrical Engineering at Notre Dame from 1918 to 1946. He also was head of the depart­ment from 1918 to 1939, when he asked to be relieved of his administrative duties so that he could concentrate on teaching and research. 
A native of Cuzco, Peru, South Ameri­ca, he received his C.E. degree from No­tre Dame in 1908, remaining at the Uni­versity as a graduate instructor. He was awarded his E.E. and M.C.E. degrees by 
Dr. I. A. CapcDo 
Notre Dame-in 1909. Returning to his 
native South America, he received the 
Sc.D. from the Universidad de-San..^n-. 
tonic in 1910. 

Speakingi pn^tBe pi;ograin-vdih Canon' Cardijn was Rev. Victor Villeneuve, , O.M.I., who has organized the Jocist.-'' movement in Canada. He praised the work of Canon Cardijn, calling him the "father of specialized Catholic Action." Rev. Daniel Keneally, chaplain of • the Oklahoma State Penitentiary, who, while studying in Louvain, became familiar with Canon Cardijn's work, urged the seminarians to persevere in their work in Catholic Action, following the example of the Canon, whom he called "the man who means more to the Church than almost any other living person." 
From 1913 to 1917 he was professor of Physics at Notre Dame, where, in the meantime, he received his M.S. in 1912, his M.E. and Ph.D. in 1913. Upon the outbreak of World War I, Dr. Caparo went to the Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology as instructor in radio mechanics and assistant in electrical engineering. He returned to Notre Dame in 1918 and has served at the University continuously for the past 28 years. He also received an M.A. from the University of Chicago in 1919. 
In making- the announcement of Dr. Caparo's retirement. Father John J. Cav­anaugh, C.S.C, president, said: "The University is deeply appreciative of the long, devoted and distinguished service rendered to Notre Dame by Dr. Caparo, both in the capacity as head of the De­partment of Electrical Engineering and as professor of Electrical Engineering. His eight college degrees are indicative of a mind keen in the field of electrical engineering. I sincerely regret that ill health has forced him to retire from ac­tive duty on the Notre Dame faculty, and I am happy to announce in the name of the University that Dr. Caparo has been named a professor emeritus in Elec­trical Engineering. Many generations of Notre Dame men will ever hold his name in veneration." 

.: To this apreciatioriby the president of ' the University the ALUMNUS, in the 
•name of the almost innumerable alumni who have benefited from Dr. Caparo's sacrificing devotion to Notre Dame, wants to add an enthusiastic second. Dr. Caparo's brilliant gifts of mind provided not only a solid training for his stu­dents, but also, and more important, a 
- lifelong inspiration .iorJthem. They all .reAiember and are grateful. 
GEN. TAYLOR VISITS CAMPUS 

Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, famed commander of the 101st Airborne Di­vision was a campus \isitor in August. Gen. Taylor, now superintendent of the United States Military Academy at West Point, was the guest of Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame, while the former stopped in South Bend enroute to the first postwar con­vention of the 101st at Atlanta, Ga. Gen. Taylor drew world-wide attention when he flew back to Europe to rejoin his command during the "Battle of the Bulge" in December, 1944. 
n 

Vets Begin Priesthood Studies 
32 Enrolled in University Under New Preparation Plan. 
Thirty-two veterans, most of whom participated in some of the fiercest battles of World War II, have begun initial studies for the Catholic priesthood under a new plan inaugurated this month at the University of Notre Dame. 
These men are in addition to 16 other veterans who enrolled at Holy Cross Seminary on the Notre Dame campus early this year to study for the priest­hood. The majority of this first group has taken the next step tov.-ards the priesthood by entering the novitiate. 
Under the new plan, students who plan to become priests are offered accelerated courses in Latin and Philosophy during their first year of college while living in campus residence halls as regular stu­dents at Notre Dame. By this means they are enabled to shorten the seminary course and enter the novitiate or major seminary directly, according to the Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C, director of voca­tions at Holy Cross Seminary, Notre Dame. 
Father Wilson stressed that the new program at Notre Dame is a direct de­parture from customary preparation of men for the priesthood ana that the plan grew out of the war. It is intended, he declared, to aid the mature veteran who desires to proceed with his studies as rapidly as possible. In addition, it permits time for a final decision on the part of a few others who may still be doubtful about their vocation. 
The majority of these 32 men study­ing on the campus as ordinary students plan to become pi-iests in the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross. A few, however, in-intend to become diocesan priests and others plan to join various religious com­munities. 
Under the accelerated Latin and phil­osophy courses, the veterans complete two years' work in one year. They par­ticipate in the varied spiritual, in­tellectual and recreational life on the campus and in addition participate in special periodic spiritual programs at Holy Cross Seminary. 
After a year of study at Notre Dame these candidates destined for the Con-gi-egation of Holy Cross will enter the novitiate for one year and then will return to Moreau Seminary, to complete their Notre Dame education. The others eventually will enter seminaries of their choice. 
Veterans now studying at Notre Dame 

under the new plan are: John Lambert 
of Summit, 111.; Frank Prokes, Jackson, 
Miss.; Edward Buenger, River Forest, 
111.; William Bullock, Maple Lake, 
Minn.; Jame s Blaes, Indianapolis, 
Thomas Devine, Shorewood, Wis.; Milton 
Folds and James Hanlon, both of Chi­
cago; Frank Gwynn, LaPlata, Md.; 
Raymond Henwood, San Francisco; 
Philip Higgins, Coatesville, Pa. 
William Klee, Columbus, O.; Daniel 

Lynch, Geneva, N. Y.; Clair Lambour, 
Johnsto^\'n, Pa.; Russel Lesp2rance, 
Pound, Wis.; Bernard Lonczak, Buffalo, 
N. y.; Larry Michaud, Cortland, N. Y.; Robert McLaughlin, Rockville Center, 
N. Y.; Casimir Matusik, Jamaica, N. Y.; John Murray, Shaip3\'ille, Pa.; Raymond Neary, Brooklyn, N. Y.; James O'Con­nor, Freeport, 111.; William Orr, Devils' Lake, N. D.; Kenneth Peters, Quincy, 111.; Harold Quinn, Rochester, N. Y.; Gregory Shinert, Randolph Field, Tex.; Darwin Venneri, Charleroi, Pa.; Joseph Zur Schmiede, New Albany, Ind.; Joseph Stroot, St. Louis; Jack Slattery, Rochester, N. Y.; Paul Schaefer, Day­ton, O.; and John Gruenfelder, St. Paul, Minn. 
INDIANA LAWYERS MEET 
The oOth anniversary meeting of the 

Indiana State Bar Association aidjoumed 
at Notre Dame on Sept. 7 after hearing 
prominent lawyers discuss the current 
situations both in Germany and Japan. 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, pres­

ident of Notre Dame, opened the two 
day meeting with a welcoming address 
in which he gave warning of the very 
real threat to fundamental Americanism 
which is posed by the philosophy of ma­
terialism. 
Other speakers on the two day pro­

gram were Arthur L. May *18, of South 
Bend, the president of the St. Joseph 
County Bar Association, Gov. Ralph F. 
Gates, Alex M. Campbell, U. S, district 
attorney, Tappan Gregory, of Chicago, 
president of Illinois State Bar Associa­
tion, and Marshall D. Abrams, Green-
castle, Ind. 
NATIONAL MEETINGS AT ST. MARY'S 
National meetings of the National 

Conference of Catholic Charities and the 
St. Vincent de Paul Society were held 
at St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, Aug. 23-26. Paul M. Butler, '27, South Bend, was the local chairman in charge of ar­
rangements,- '^sisbeid ;l)y 'fcanyjpther lo­cal alumni. on ii|Gmerous\\fc^^ Among the :cKi^ jsp^dce^'^^eK Samuel Cardinal Stntch; LIi.\E)ii j46ir'^ of Chicago, and tigo T. Crowley, LLJ)., '44, former j[ederal ^phomcvadministra­tbr. Rev. Joseph B; .Tc»mey^;'26, director. Diocesan Charitiesi'.an^'"Welfare, Syra­cuse, Ni ;Y., ispqke tojajgeneral meeting of the cpriferente:6n:Augi:26 on the sub­ject, "Catholic PhilosppKy/and Practices in Social WelfajV*: iFather Toomey was elected a yice^pi^ident ;of, ft Catholic Charities. , • •! j , '.'-'•' ' 
The Society of Sfc t^incent de Paul attended a .Communion breakfast at No­tre Dame on Sunday :inorning, Aug. 25. The Mass was celebratied^by-Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, GiS-C.* president of the Uni­versity, and Rev. Johii; T;, DeGroote, C.S.C, was one of the speakers at the breakfast. Rev. Francis R .^Cavanaugh, C.S.C, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, presided at the gieneral; meeting which was. addre^ed .:by .Wilron W. Wyatt, Admim'strator, •National-, Hous­ing Agency, Washington; D.-jG.;^;''"' 
APPOINTED TO COMMI.S]il!C^ri;i 

Two professors of philosdpHy-iit-.;Nbtre Dame have been named to the'.^Gatholic Cdminissipnon Intellectual a'nd^'^CuItural Affairs, oiganiziEd tliis past; -summer. They are Rev. Leo K. Wardj C.S.C, who was elected an executive committee­man, and Dr. Yves R. Simon, who will serve on the committee on problems and policies. 
The purposes of the new commission, according to Father Ward, is to contrib­ute to a just and peaceful world by co­operating in the cultural and intellectual fields. To this end, the new group pro-pores to foster Catholic intellectual and cultural cooperation at home and-to es­tablish and maintain relations with or­ganized and individual Catholic scholars throughout the world. 
CALIFORNIA AT NOTRE DAME 

In an effort ta establish on the campus of the University some atmosphere of the State of California, Joieph' Scott, 
LL.D. '15, Laetare Medalist aiid promi­nent Los Angeles attorney,-has donated to the University, seeds-from the great "General Sherman Tree" of the" Sequoia-Kings National Canypii Parte in Cali­fornia. • , .. . 
Mr. Scott obtained the seeds recently through the Natioiial-Park's Service and sent them to^tli'e; Rev. John J; Cavanaugh, C.S.C, president: ilnstructions for plant­ing the Seoupia seeds on the Notre Dame campus were provided by officials of the National Park Service.'---• 
1946 NOMINATING COMMITTEES! 
Under the new Constitution of the Alumni Association, President Thomas 
F. Byrne, at the Cleveland fall meeting of the Board of Directors, appointed the following Nominating Committees, (two of three members each): 
Joseph M. Erandy, '21, 522 State St., Ogdensbiug, New York, chauman George A. Brautigam. '29, 538 N.E. 5Sth Teiroce. tComi. Flo. Charles A. Q-NeiU, '27, 2479 N. 95th St., Milwaukee. Wte. 
Louis C. Fehlig, '37, 7571 Buckingham Dr., Clayton, Mo., chairman loim F. Robinson, '28, 87 Maplewood Ave., West Hartford, Conn. Charles J. Hirschbuhl, '22, 2130 N.W. York St., Portland, Ore. 
Unde r the new Constitution: ". . . Each of the first two committees appointed by the President pursuant to this section of the Constitution shall propose a list of twelve (12) acti%'e members. The President shall cause the 24 names thus proposed to be placed in alphabetical order upon an official ballot of the Association and mailed on or before the first day of November to each active member of the Association in good standing with a return self-addressed envelope. On the 10th day of December or at the ^vinter.meeting of the Board of Di­rectors, the President shall open the ballots in the presence of the Board of Directors of the Association and the votes shall then be counted by 
FOURTH FUND PROGRESSES 
At the end of the third quarter, October 1, the Fourth Annual Fund of the Alumni Associa:tion, for the calendar year 1946, has broken all records of alumni participation. It appears now that by the end of the year, the total amount will exceed any pre^nous figure in the annual giving program. 
On Sept. 10, the report showed that 4,896 contributors had given 582,541.70. The 1945 totals showed 3,096 contribu­tors giving $92,195.37. 
The tremendous increase in the num­ber of contributors, a 58 percent increase, is of course a source of great stimula­tion to the Alumni Association and its Board of Directors, and to the University and its president. 
The per capita'gift of 1945 was just under $30. The present per capita from the greatly increased number is only $16.86. But the importance to the An­nual Fund of the increase in the number of givers offsets in this early period the drop in the per capita amount. 
With another quartier to go, there is 
•everyevidence that the Fund can surpass in amount all previous annual efforts, just as it is already phenomenally ahead in numbers. 

the President and the members of the 
Board. The four nominees receiving the highest number of votes cast shall be elected to the Board of Directors for a term of three years. The four 
nominees receiving the next highest number of all the votes cast shall be 
elected for a term of two years. The 
four nominees receiving the next highest number of votes cast shall be 
elected for a term of one year." 

Suggestions of all members of the Alumni Association to the members of the above committees will result in the most democratic and representa­tive selection of nominees for the im­portant work of directing the alumni 
program. Make them at once, as time is short. 
(It is important to note the effect of the startling increase in numbers on the football ticket distribution plan for 1946. Based on ijrevious years and noi-mal in­crease, it is not difficult to see where the 1946 demands exceeded the most liberal estimates and caused considerable diffi­culty in carrying out the commitments of the 1946 plan.) 
BIOLOGIST IN CHICAGO POST 
Dr. Theodor K. Just, professor of Biology at Notre Dame and internation­ally known as editor of the American 
Midland Naturalist, published at Notre 
Dame, resigned his position recently to become associate curator of the Chicago Natural History Museum. 
Dr. Just came to Notre Dame from the University of Vienna in the fall of 1929 and had taught in the Department of Biology since that time. Upon the death of Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., in 1940, Dr. Just was named to succeed him as head of the Department of Biology. Due to the pressure of his duties as first incumbent of the Julius 
A. Nieuwland Research professorship, however, he asked to be relieved of his duties as head of the department in August, 1945. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JIfoiie S^ame Booki, 
PRACTICAL IDEALISM, by Paul R. Mallon, '19os, LL.D., 46. (Bruce Hum­phries, Inc., 30 Winchester St., Boston, Mass. $2.) 
Paul Mallon came to Notre Dame in 1919 already initiated in newspaper work and in university study. The urge to do was strong and he stayed in Dr. John Cooney's journalism classes only a few months. But inspiration can be lasting. Many alumni have finished their courses, won their degrees, and seem not to know what they have. Others, in rarer in­stances, unable to finish, seem to know what they missed and' have more than offset the deficit. 
Paul Mallon practically inaugurated the Washington column in American newspapers. More than 300 of them now carry his "News Behind the News." The basic principle of his success seems to be the clear expression of common sense in current affairs which he makes it his business to know. 
In addition to serving America as a fundamentalist in the field of patriotism, Paul Mallon has done Christianity a great service as a punch-packing cham­pion of the Christian-American heritage. 
The Alumni Association program of religion and citizenship, urged for Local Clubs and individual alumni, would prof­it greatly from alumni reading of this book just published. It is a compilation of some of the best thinking in political, economic and moral fields from Paul Mallon's columns. 
NEW BOOK By FATHER O'BRIEN 
Rev. John A. O'Brien, professor at Notre Dame, is the author of a new book. 
Truths Men Live By, which explains in 
popular language the fundamental truths of the Christian religion. The book is published by the Macmillan Com­pany. 
• ^ • — » • — 
SOCIOLOGy TEXT READY 
The new, enlarged edition of Introduc­tory Sociology, by Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., head of the Department of Sociology at Notre Dame, was off the presses on Sept. 1. The book, rated as one of the foremost Catholic sociology texts, first appeared in 1935. 
It has been adopted by over 100 col­leges and universities in the United States and Canada as a text, and has undergone 10 printings. In addition, an edition has been published in Brazil in the Portuguese langfuage. 

FOR GOD. COUNTRY. NOTRE DAME 
IN GLORy EVERLASTING 
received only recently in, the Alumni Office. At the time of his disappearance he was a flying oflBcer with ;the RCAF and was on his second mission over enemy territory as a pilot of a Mosquito bomber. 
Frank enlisted in the RGAF in Sep­tember, 1941, and was commissioned a pilot officer 11 months later. He was an instructor in Canada for a year and then entered training as a Mosquito pilot. When he completed his training he was sent overseas and while still engaged in operational training in England was shot down by an enemy plane. He man­aged to return to his outfit after jump­ing from his crippled plane. At the time he was declared missing in action he was patrolling an airdrome in Holland; 
He is survived by his parents,- one brother and four sisters. 
FOREIGN SERVICE POSITIONS OPEN 
The National Catholic Educational .Association has called attention to a re­cent special act of Congress which lays the groundwork for the admission to the United States Foreign Servicer The special legislation provides for the.ap­pointment of 250 officers in middle and upper grades in the fiscal years 1946 and 1947. . 
Candidates for appointment must be veterans of World War 11, menibars of the armed forces or Merchant Marine, or have at least two years responsible gov­ernment experience since Dec. 7, 1941. They must hold bachelor's degree from an accredited college or have two years college work plus at least two years re­sponsible employment abroad. They must be 31 years of age, citizens of the United States for at least 15 years, and if mar­ried, married to United States citizens. In addition they must have facility m reading at least one major foreign lan­guage. 
Application forms and detailed infor­mation is available through .the Board of Examiners for Foreign Service, De­partment of State, Washington 25, D. C. 
SEE WAR DAM AGE 

Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, bishop of Buffalo, N. Y., visited the cam­pus on his return from a four-week tour of Japan. He declared that inpre than half of the property of the Catholic Church there was destroyed" in air raids during the war. In company with Most Rev. Michael Ready, bishop of Colum­bus, Bishop O'Hara had visited Japan to make a survey of postwar lieeds of the Church, and will make a report to Pope Pius XII, who requested, the sur-. vey. 
ENS. ROY J. GEUMBINE, '44, hav­ing been reported missing in action since Nov. 17, 1944, was presumed to be dead on April 11, 1945. 
Roy received his B.N.S. degree at No­tre Dame as a member of the N.R.O.T.C. and was assigned to the destroyer Hoel. 
Roy Grumbine Joe Sallivan 

On Oct. 25, during the Second Battle of the Philippines, the Hoel was sunk. Roy is known to have survived the sinking of the ship and to have reached a life raft safely, but information is indefinite from that point on. 
A letter to Roy's parents from his im­mediate superior aboard the Hoel, says in part: 
". . . Then too, Roy had something else, which astonished several of us in the discussions which we had on several occosions and I am sure it did not let him down—his splendid Faith. It was so ex­tremely stimulating for me to see how sincerely and devotedly he clung to the tenets of his religion—certainly rare that a man at 22 had achieved a philosophy w^hich was to him so perfect and com­plete." 
Roy is survived by his parents and a sister. 
LT. JOSEPH A. SULLIVAN, '41, of Washington, D. C, formerly carried as missing in action, was declared to be dead in January, according to word from the War Department. 
Joe was the pilot of a P-51 (Mustang) lighter and on his last mission he par­ticipated in the bombing of Peng-pu railroad yards in the vicinity of Kuchen, China. According to eye-witness reports of his squadron mates, Joe had just com­pleted his pass when he reported over the radio that his oil pressure was zero, and that he was returning to the base. 
Shortly afterwards he crashed. He was not seen to jump, and the others in his squadron saw his plane hit the ground and burn. 
Joe enlisted as an aviation cadet in April, 1942, and was commissioned in February, 1943. He went overseas in No­vember, 1944. 
He is survived by his parents and one brother, John A., who expects to go to Notre Dame as a student this year. 
JOHN F. SHILTS, ex. '26, Houston, Texas, died at the Fort Sheridan (111.) Post Hospital on July 25 of illness con­tracted while serving in the Air Forces. 
After leaving Notre Dame in 1924, John remained in South Bend until 1930 when he moved to Dayton, 0., and later to Houston, Texas. He joined the Air Forces in June, 1942, and went overseas in February, 1943. Twice decorated he was one of the crew of a B-26 Marauder which completed a full assignment of missions over enemy Germany. 
In October, 1945, as he was ready to leave for home from France, it was dis­covered that he had contracted tubercu­losis. He was sent to Bnins hospital at Santa Fe, N. M., for treatment but was in South Bend in June to visit his late mother, then in her final illness. He later 
John Shuts Frank p. Bjme 

suifered a relapse and, en route to South Bend for his mother's funeral, was taken to the Fort Sheridan hospital. 
He is survived by his wife and one brother. Prof. Walter L. Shilts, '22, head of the Civil Engineering Department at Notre Dame. 
FRANK PAUL BYRNE, ex. '41, Phoenixville, Pa., has been declared dead since February, 1945, according to word 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
VOCATIONAL CHAIRMEN TO STAY 
The Alumni Board, meeting in Cleve­

Family Prayer Series Announced 
land on Sept. 18-19, adopted officially recommendations made by William R. 

Will Be Broadcast This Winter 
Dooley, assistant alumni secretary, that: 

With Aid of Hollywood Stars 
1) The club vocational chairmen 
A unique national weekly radio pro­gram dedicated to encouraging family prayer in the United States and abroad will be inaugurated over scores of radio stations this winter, it has been an­nounced by Rev. Patrick Peyton, C.S.C, '37, who is a leading crusader of the Family Rosary in the United States. 
Announcement of the weekly radio program was made by Father Peyton following a meeting with Rev. Frank Gartland, C.S.C, '33, of Boston, former prefect of religion at Notre Dame, and Rev. Jerome Lawyer, C.S.C, '35, Ports­mouth, O., who was in a Japanese intern­ment camp during the latter part of World War II 
Last year Father Peyton made a trip 
to Hollywood and returned with the 
promise of 50 movie stars that they 
would volunteer their time to dramatize 
on the radio the essential necessity of the 
restoration of family prayer for the 
peace and happiness of the world. Radio 
time, script writers and a producer have 
been secured for the series of programs. 
Father Peyton, born in Ireland and 
ordained a priest of the Congregation of 
MARITAIN WRITES FOR REVIEW 
Dr. Jacques Maritain, French'ambass­ador to the Vatican and noted philoso­pher, has written an answer to his critics for the fall issue of the Review of Poli­tics, which is published at the University. 
For several years American and Ca­nadian philosophers have been challeng­ing Dr. Maritain's interpretation of per­sonality and the common good which he has used effectively in his attacks upon the totalitarian theories of government and politics. Dr. Maritain's answer, pre­pared at great length in Vatican City, has been sent to Dr. Waldemar Gurian, editor of the Review of Politics, because the majority of the discussions of his theories have appeared in this country. The chief points in the controversy deal with the distinction between individual­ity and personality and the implication of that distinction in determining the common good . 
The fall issue of the Review of Politics will be released the latter part part of October. It also will contain articles by Dr. N. S. Timasheff, Dr. Quincy Wright, Bernard Wall, Wilhelm Roepke, and Dr. Richard Pattee. 
Book reviews in this issue have been Holy Cross five years ago, has become nationally and internationally known as a modem apostle in the Catholic devotion to the Family Rosary. In gratitude to the Blessed Virgin for his remarkable restoration to health in 1942, after a near-fatal illness, he has consecrated his life to -spreading the practice of the Family Rosary. His headquarters are located at 923 Madison Avenue, Albany, 
N. Y. 
Father Gartland recently resigned from his duties as editor of the "Stu­dents' Bulletin" in Our Sunday Visitor to devote his time exclusively to preach­ing the Family Rosary in parish tri­duums and to organizational work. The former prefect of religion at Notre Dame also is well-known as author of many pamphlets for young people. He will go to Hollywood soon to complete arrange­ments for the weekly radio series. 
Father Lawyer a little over a year ago was in a Japanese internment camp in the Philippine Islands. Rescued by Amer­ican troops after much privation, he re­turned to the United States where he joined Father Peyton in his work. 
prepared by Stefan T. Possony, Rev. Leo 
R. Ward, C.S.C, Fritz Karl Mann, Dr. Ferdinand A. Hermens, the Rev. Thomas 
T. McAvoy, C.S.C, Dr. Jerome G. Ker­win, the Rev. Joseph Swastek, M. A. Fitzsimons, and Thomas E. Downey. 
ON SPECIAL PROJEQ 
Two scientists of the University, Dr. 
E. Lawrence Powers, of the Department of Biology, and Dr. William H. Hamill, '30, of the Department, of Chemistry, have been granted leaves of absence from their teaching duties to conduct research in atomic energy at the Argonne Na­tional Laboratory on the campus of the University of Chicago. " 
The Argonne National Laboratory is successor to Metallurgical Laboratories of the University of Chicago, which dur­ing the war was the midwestem center of research for the Manhattan District Project, official title of the atomic energy project. Research, in plutonium, one of the elements used in the atomic bomb, constitutes the main work of the group. Although still located at the University of Chicago, the work now being carried on is completely independent of the uni­versity. 
now serving at 28 different points throughout the country, be asked to serve indefinitely in the interests of Notre Dame men needing job help; 
2) The Alumni Office undertake at once to formulate a listing of alumni by occupations so as to facilitate the exchange of information on job openings. 
The Alumni Board and the Alumni Office recognize that the emergency period, with regard to vocational coun­seling and job placement for war veter­ans, has about passed. But there is still much to be done in this field, for veterans and for non-veterans and particularly for new graduates; and the aid of vo­cational charmen in the clubs is essen­tial if such a program is to succeed. 
The Alumni Office will start at once to make a list of alumni by occupations. Such work, it is recognized, will be slow at best, and it will take considerable time, perhaps years, to build up an oc­cupational listing of the majority of alumni. Alumni individually can do much for the project by volunteering the nec­essary information whenever they write to the Alumni Office or whenever a ques­tionnaire is sent. 
Thus the start of a new, post-war project in the Alumni Office. You'll hear more about it soon.—WRD. 
JONES IN FORMER POST 
Herbert E. Jones, '27, since November, 1944, business manager of the Univers­ity, returned this summer to his former duties as business manager of athletics, replacing John P. Donnelly, '39, who had resigrned because of ill health. 
M. Robert. Cahill, '34, who returned to the campus a year ago after long serv­inc in the Navy, continues as assistant business manager of athletics, in charge, especially, of tickets. Thus reestablished in the Athletic Department is the able, experienced pre-war team of Jones and Cahill, pride of Dixon, 111. 
When Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, president, asked Herb Jones to take over again the tremendous business responsibilities of the Athletic Depart­ment, Father John J. Burke, C.S.C, '32, former prefect of discipline, assumed Herb's duties in the Main Building. Father Burke, recently returned after extensive service as a chaplain in the Navy, has the title of business manager and steward. 

By Bnynond JL DOBOVIIB* '42 » » AaBHtont PnbHcitr Oiittclor 
ATHLETICS 
^^^^VV^^V^WW^WW^^»V^M^MWV^W^»^^^^^'^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^*^^^^^»^^^^^^^^^^^MN^^^^^^^^^MN^MMMVM^^MMMVMM^M»<^^VMMWM^MW^MMM» 
(See 1946 Football Roster on Back Cover) 
BULLETIN The Fighting Irish sounded warning of things to come during the 1946 foot­ball season by running over the power­ful Illinois eleven, 26 to 6, in the season-opener on Sept. 28. Emil Sitko, Fort Wayne, Ind., half­back, gave reason to believe that he might prove to be the breakaway runner for the Blue and Gold gridders by gal­loping 83 yards to set up the first Notre Dame touchdown in the second quarter. Sitko performed brilliantly throughout the afternoon. Johnny Lujack started where he left off before entering the Navy by turning in a sterling performance as a field gen­eral and passer. Coach Leahy had noth­ing but the highest praise for Lujack after watching him direct the team to the win over the Illini. Standouts in the line against Illinois were George Strohmeyer and Marty Wendell, centers; George' Connor and Ziggie Czarobski, tackles; and Bill Fischer, guard. 
FOOTBALL Coach Frank Leahy, back at the helm at Notre Dame after two years in the Navy, faces one of the toughest assign­ments in his entire coaching career as he leads the Irish into a suicidal nine game schedule to be inaugurated on Sep­tember 28 against the highly-touted Il­linois eleven in Champaign. The very fact that Notre Dame must open its campaign against Illinois is a tip-off to the huge task confronted by Coach Leahy and the Blue and Gold eleven this season. Illinois boasts of one of the finest teams since the days of Red Grange, with a backfield composed of Julie Rykovich, a Notre Dame star while stationed here with the Marine V-12 unit in 1943, at right half; Buddy Young, the widely publicized Negro speedster, at left half; Perry Moss, brilliant passer from Oklahoma, at quarter; and Ray Florek, returning monogram winner, at fullback. This is only the opener—although the outcome might well mean the difference between a good and mediocre season for the Irish^o be followed in order by Pittsburgh, Purdue, Iowa, Navy, Army, Northwestern, Tulane and Southern Cal­ifornia. Last spring Coach Leahy went on rec­ord as saying that Notre Dame would have a "representative team" in 1946. 

team." He also added, "However, we'll probably lose three or four games." Some thought these statements to be contra­dictory. They are understandable, how­ever, when one examines the 1946 sched­ule. 
Coach Leahy still feels that he'll have a fairly good team, but a team can be good and lose to Army, Illinois, Navy and Southern California, for example, not to mention Purdue, Tulane, Northwestern, Iowa and Pittsburgh. He rates Army, powered once again by Blanchard and Davis plus a squad which has been to­gether for the past several years, as the strongest team in the nation. They will be even better, he predicts, than Illinois which has a 220-pound line paving the way for Young. 
Although the Notre Dame eleven is bolstered by the return of 43 monogram wnnersfrom the 1942, '43, '44 and '45 seasons, the Irish will be facing teams who also are built' around returning serv­icemen. And; until the season gets well under way, it is not known how much can be expected from servicemen who have not played football for one, two, three and even four years. 
A newcomer will -flank left end for the Irish during the 1946 campaign. Jim Martin, freshman from Cleveland, re­ceived the Hering Medal for the "best blocking end" at the end of spring prac­tice. Bob Skoglund, Chicago, regular end last season, and Paul Limont, Pittsfield, Mass., monogram winner in 1943, also will see considerable action. 
Jack Zilly, Southington, Conn., who won a monogram on the Irish national championship team in 1943, has captured the right end berth. Pressing close be­hind Zilly are Frank Kosikowski, -Milr waukee, who played with the Fleet City Navy team, 1945 Service champions, and Bob Walsh, Chicago, who played a few games for St. Mary's Pre-Flight last season. . -; 
George Connor, Chicago, looks best at left tackle as the season is about to open. Connor attended Holy Cross for two years prior to 35 months in the Navy, but transferred to Notre Dame to be nearer:his father, who is seriously ill. Bob McBride, Logfan, O., who was a member of the 1943 national champion­ship team, and Wilmer Russell, mono­gram winner last season, are close behind. 
Ziggie Czarobski, Chicago, has return­ed with play reminiscent of his out­standing work in 1943 for the Irish at right tackle. Jack Fallon, monogram win­ner last season from Alton, HI., and George Sullivan, Walpole, Mass., who earned a monogram in 1944, follow as first line reserves. 
In so stating, what he was implying was The 1946 coaching stofi except BrilL Fram IM: Saabo. CtiBmniia, Eorier. that "Notre Dame will have a fairly good Leahy. McArdle. Druse and Eronae. 
The Notre Dame AJumnus 
At the guards, scrappy Fred Rovai, Hammond, Ind., who was a regular guard last season, has the edge over All-American John Mastrangslo, Vander­grift. Pa., who also was a regular guard on Coach Hughie Devore's 19-15 eleven. Vince Scott, LeEoy, N. Y., another let­terman from last year's squad, is giving Rovai and Mastrangelo a real battle for the post. 

Three former lettermen also are in­volved in the scrap for the left guard spot. Bill Fischer, Chicago, who operated last year as a tackle, has been switched to guard and apparently holds the edge as the season is about to open over Joe Signaigo, Memphis, and Bernie Meter, Cleveland, both monogram winners in 1943. THE 1946 BACKFIELD BEPBODUCED—The engronrings abore, size 7 x II inches, are 
George Strohmeyer, McAUen, Tex., a available through the Notre Dame Bookstore, at only 50 cents a set The drawings newcomer who played with the Iowa are the work o{ Ellsworth Cordesman. '46. a veteran now back in school. Cordesman Seahawks in the Navy, and Marty Wen­is from Detroit dell, Chicago, who performed as a full­
are George Ratterman, Cincinnati, mono­for the season opener. Sitko, who was 
back in 1944, are almost on a par at gram winner last season, and Frank Tri-at Notre Dame as a freshman and then 
center. Both are good linebackers and pucka, Bloomfield, N. J., who under­entered the Navy and sparked Great 
probably both will see plenty of action 

during the season. Bill Walsh, Phillips-studied Frank Dancewicz and Ratterman Lakes to its smashing 19-13 upset of the burg, N. -T., first-string center last sea­last year. Irish in 1943, has looked very good in son, is seeking to regain the starting Bob Livingstone, Hammond, Ind., let-pre-season drills and might prove to be 
berth in 1946. terman in 1942, likely will hold down the the break-away runner needed by Notre starting berth at left halfback, followed Dame. Mike Swistowicz, Chicago fresh-' 
Johnny Lujack, Connellsville, Pa., by Terry Brennan, Milwaukee, mono­man, also is quite a speedster and Floyd 
sparkling Irish passer who will be re­gram ^vinner last season, and Gerry Simmons, Portland, Ore., who performed 
membered for his outstanding work when he succeeded Angelo Bertelli when the 

Cowhig, Dorchester, Mass., who also as fullback late in 1945 for the Irish, starred in 1942 while earning a mono­carries plenty of power as a runner. 
latter was called to active duty with the Marines in 1943, shows promise of re­gram at fullback. Jim Hello, 1943 regular and letterman turning to his '43 heights and definitely Another returning serviceman, Emil from West Warwick, R. L, is regaining 
will start the season as the No. 1 quarter­Sitko, Ft. Wayne, Ind., apparently has most of his power and probably will start back. Pressing him for his job, however. clinched a starting berth at right half as the Notre Dame fullback. John Pa­nslli, Morristown, N. J., monogram win­ner last season, and Comie Clatt, East Peoria, III., who won a monogram in 1942, provide the Irish with a better-
than-average crop of fullbacks. 
On paper, prospects for the 1946 No­tre Dame football season are bright. Forty-three returning monogram win­ners certainly provide the nucleus for another great Irish eleven. Unfortunate­ly, however, football is played not on paper but on the gridiron. One of the toughest schedules in the nation, plus a general return of pre-war football throughout the land, makes the task of Coach Leahy and his staff one which the 
general public is not fully aware. 
BASKETBALL 
Loss of all five regulars from the 1945­46 Notre Dame basketball team poses Coach Ed Krause with the problem of knitting together an entirely new team for the 1946-47 basketball campaign. 
Leo Klier, Washington, Ind., forward who broke the season scoring record last season by pushing 355 points through the nets, was graduated last June and 

Buddy Young breaks away from Terry Brennan (37) and Marty Wendell (left) now is playing professional basketball for a short gain in the first quarter of the Illinois game on Sept. 28. at Champaign. in Indianapolis, Ind. 
Johnny Dee, spirited forward from Chicago, withdrew from Notre Dame to transfer to the Loyola University law school in Chicago for his last two years of law studies. Dee had two years of elig^ibility left at Notre Dame. 
Vince Boryla, East Chicago, Ind., high-scoring center, has withdrawn from No­tre Dame to enlist in the Army. Boryla, who resigned from the U. S. Naval Acad­emy last October to return to Notre Dame, was notified by his draft board that he would be unable to finish the se­mester, and Vince decided that instead of continuing his studies for only a part of the semester he would enlist. 
The other two remaining regulars from last year, guards Billy Hassett, New York City, and Frank Gilhooley, Toledo, have no remaining eligibility at Notre Dame. Both are now in school, but will be graduated in February. Hassett has signed to play professional basket­ball with the Buffalo, N. Y., American Legion team. Ray Corley, Staten Island, 
N. Y., seventh monogram man last sea­son, did not return to school this fall. 
To build, a team around this year. Coach Krause has George Eatterman, Cincinnati, No. 6 man last year, and the following former lettermen who have re­turned from service: 
Frannie Curran, Sterling, 111.; Paul Gordon, Baltimore; John Kelly, Utica, 
N. Y.; Carl Loyd, South Bend; Buster Hiller, East Bemstadt, Ky; Cy Singer, Jasper, Ind.; Bernie Rutledge, Rosedale, 
L. I., N. Y.; and Johnny Lujack, Con­nellsville. Pa. 
Returning from last year, besides Rat­terman, are Dick Kluck, Chicago, Joe Sobek, Hammond, Ind.; and John Goon-en, Lafayette, Ind. 
John Brennan, Bedford, Ind., who was here as a freshman before entering the Navy, has returned to school and prob­ably will be in the thick of the battle for starting center. Several other fresh­men also have returned from the service and will report for practice. 
BRILL JOINS STAFF 

Marty Brill, All-American right half on Notre Dame's 1929 and 1930 national championship elevens, was signed in Au­gust as an assistant coach by Frank Leahy. Marty comes to Notre Dame after several successful seasons as coach of the Loyola University (Los Angeles) foot­ball team, and more recently, after a tour of duty with the Army. He succeeds Eddie Doherty, former Boston College star who served for several months as backfield coach. Doherty resig^ned early in Augrust to accept a coaching position with an eastern college. 
4.489 STUDENTS 
(Continued from Page 4) 

and the heavily taxed inadequate facil­ities have forced the St. Michael's laun­dry to adopt a two-week laundry serv­ice. 
Returning students, many from as far back as '39 and '40, were greeted by tra­ditional mountainous heaps of student paraphernalia at the University book­store. There, as elsewhere on the campus, old faces mingled with new—old ac­quaintances were re-formed and new ones made. Gone is the sea of student trunks, chairs, lamps, etc., a familiar Badin Bog and Main Building scene for years. Railway Express vacated its Main Building office for the Gym. Exercising foresight. Brothers Meinrad and Conan moved into the north wing of Badin to establish a branch of their expanding bookstore. Here, texts only are handled for the students, thereby relieving the congested area of the bookstore, which has been devoted to the sale of station­ery toilet articles and souvenirs. 
With a full quota of editors and aspir­ing writers, campus publications are promised a successful year. The first is­sue of the weekly Scholastic was dis­tributed and well received on Stept. 20. Already, the formation of the first Dome since the 1942 centennial issue is under way. Existing shortages of paper and other printing material, however, are putting a damper on attempts to re­vive the popular pre-war Scrip. 
The current scholastic year had its formal religious opening during the Sol­emn High Mass in Sacred Heart Church on Sunday, Sept. 15. Speaking to the student body at that time the Rev. John 
J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, president of the University said: "College students of to­day, more than ever before, have a defi­nite obligation to take full advantage of their educational opportunities in or­der to make up for time lost during the war in preparing themselves for places in the outside world." 
Father Cavanaugh, in addressing each student personally, continued: "As a No­tre Dame man you are not just an anony­mous one of 4,500 boys who happens to be trying to get an education as a means of making some money and to have your name appear sometimes in the headlines. Now in a special way you have elected to be a son of Our Lady. Now as a No­tre Dame man you haven't merely your­self to look after; you may not use your time as mere whim inclines you; you may not take any attitude you choose toward developing the talents with which God has endowed you. As a Notre Dame man you are now a part of a great fam­ily with wonderful privileges to enjoy but with considerable responsibilities." 
In conclusion Father Cavanaugh em­phasized the following: "If there is one outstanding feature of Notre Dame spirit, that spirit is loyalty. In debating, on the athletic field, in all the campus organizations, in the life of the halls, the glory of the individual comes second to the good of the whole. It is yours to see that this spirit of working together, of holding together under all circum­stances, is the kejmote of your generation at Notre Dame." 
KING'S COLLEGE OPENS 

With an initial enrollment of more than 300 students. King's College opened on Sept. 9 in Wilkes Barre, Pa. Under the supervision of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and with Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C, former registrar at Notre Dame as its first president, the college will occupy temporary quarters until the erection of permanent build­ings at Kingston, Pa. These are expected to be ready for occupancy by the time the first class, now entering, is ready for gp^uation. 
The first academic year will take in courses leading to the degrees of Bach­elor of Arts and Bachelor of Science. The college will offer only first year courses in 1946-47, adding courses pro­gressively each year until 1950 when the full four-year college level will be reached. 
The majority of the students are from the Wyoming Valley area, since pri­ority was given to men from that area. About 75 per cent of the enrollment is represented by former servicemen. The faculty of ten is composed of members of the Congregation of Holy Cross and lajnnen. 
Assisting Father Connerton in the ad­ministration of the college are Rev. Wil­liam S. Scandlon, C.S.C, vice-president; Rev. Raymond A. Pieper, C.S.C, dean of the college; Rev. Edward S. Shea, C.S.C., registrar; Rev. Joseph F. Houser, C.S.C, secretary-treasurer. 
NEW HOSPITAL NEAR CAMPUS 
An eleven-acre tract of land, immedi­ately south of the campus and owned by the Congregation of Holy Cross, has been selected as the location for a $500,000 Northern Indiana Crippled Children's hospital, it was announced on Aug. 7. 
Governor Gates said the Indiana state legislature already has appropriated $500,000 for the hospital. The governor said an effort would be made to supple­ment the state funds ^t h an equal amount of federal money for the erec­tion of an even finer hospital. 
The South Bend Kiwanis Club has committed itself to pay for the land and give the title to the state of Indiana. 
The Notre Dame Ailumnus 

ALUMNI CLUBS 
Baltimore 

The Xotre Dame Club of Baltimore came into existence on Sepu 23. Bill Jacobs, 'ZG, and JIal ^\llliums '38, were in charge of the first meeting^ of 21 men, and tliey, with Gil rrendcncust, '30, Dr. Roy Skihoir, •^a. and Bill Ilariman, *42, comprise a temporary committee, headed by Bill, which will guide the affairs of tlie new club until the first of the year. 
Guest artists for the first meeting were Getir^e Hmvurd and Tom 3IcKevltt, [president and vice-president, respectively, of the Wash­ington, D. C. clul). The inspiration and sug­gestions of this able duo aided no end in the organization. Bill Jacobs reports. Present also was Kd Bailcj', Baltimore, vice-president of the national Alumni Association, who explained the pos.sibilities of the new club in the liglit of the developing association. 
Club plans so far include these functions: a meeting on Oct. 2S; a cocktail party for Xotre Dame men and their guests, in the Merchants Club, East Lombard St.. Baltimore, on Nov. 2. following the Xavy-Xotre Dame game; a Communion breakfast on Sunday, Dec. S; and a Christmas party. 
Buffolo 
Most of the fellows who were in service are back in the area and are providing the club with new enthusiasm. Wc met on "Wednes­day, Sept. IS and presented to Most Kev. John 
F. O'Huni, CS-C, I>.I>., the plaque honoring Xotre Dame war dead in the Buffalo area. This was the plaque which was prominently dis­played at our banquet on Universal Xotre Dame Xight-
Cfcfcogd 
Of foremost importance jterhaps is the fact that the ollice has been moved from 10 South LaSalle St- to 155 Xorth Clark St., 13tl» floor. The teleithone number remains the same. Cen­tral 4579. 
The work of the Placement Bureau has been going ahead steadily and it has been oxjianded both in number of men served and positions obtained for applicants. All in need of help in securing a job are urged to contact the club oflice. 
The new directory of Chicago alumni is going ahead nicely and should be ready for the printer in a few more weeks. Any one who lias a desire to place advertising in the dlrect­or>' is urged to contact Red l^nerjjtm at the club otlice. 
Jbn Cronin will be chairman of the fall football smoker to be held Oct. X6, in the Terrace Garden of tlie Morrison Hotel. Those attending are assured that sport celebrities, and possibly a stage or a screen star, will be present at the smoker. This seems to be an excellent opportunity for Chicago men to meet and discuss old times at school. 
Xelghborhood groups have been quite active. The South Side group had a meeting at tlie Southmoor Hotel, which w.is very well attend­ed. Many of those present, although living in the same neighborhood, had not seen old friends for some years. The North Side group h-d an excellent party-at St. Gertrude's Hall. This event was extremely well attended. Father O'Gara. an assistant at St. Gertrude's who was an Army chaplain, gave a hair raising account of some of liis experiences. The West Side group had a gulf party recently at St­Andrew's, but I have had no news of a hole in o ne- Jim LewL< 
Connecficuf Valley 
This organization has vigorously discarded its wartime lethargj-. Since the June issue of the "Alumnus" we have had two general meet­ings, two lengthy sessions of the Board of Governors, one social activity, and a Com­munion Breakfast. ^ 
On May 20 there was a general meeting in Hartford, attended by 30 members. Com­mittee appointments were announced, and some committee chairmen, having secured advance information of tlieir appointments through the underground, were able to accept tlieir ap­I)ointments and offer a progress report simul­taneously. Comdr. John Robjiison, for ex­ample, outlined complete plans for the Com­munion-breakfast. John Kynch offered three excellent alternative plans for a summer dance. 
The Communion-breakfast was unusually successful. Tliere were 25 present, including Father Flmlen, celebrant and club chaplain. .\t a breakfast at the Bond Hotel, Father Morrissey fascinated his audience with a most animated, thorough, and practical denuncia­tion of atheistic Communism. The member­ship from the Springneid area (Bill Hurley, Kay Snyder, et al) are to be especially com­mended for their attendance at the Breakfast because it means that they must hit the deck by 7:00 a.m.. at tlie latest to lie in Hartford on time. 
On June 21 a group gathered at Wriglit's for an evening of fun and frolic. There were 12- couples, not including one couple arriving two hours early and consequently departing before the others came—obviously, it's taking us a little time to get organized, but no one can say we haven't zeal! The evening was gay. Floyd Richards wants an early encore, and Iieing a radio announcer Floyd arises at 
4:00 a.m: more zeal, and a tribute to dance chairman Lynch. 
CLUB FOOTBALL PARTIES 
(All for Notre Dame men and their guests) 
WASHINGTON, D. C, CLUB. Pre-Navy game Rally, Carlton Ho­tel, Friday evening, Nov. 1. Price: $2.50. 
BALTIMORE CLUB. Post-Navy gam e Get-Together, Merchants Club, E. Lombard St., Nov. 2, 
5:30 P.M. 
NEW YORK CITY CLUB. An­nual Reunion and Rally, Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. Friday evening, Nov. 8. Price: $3.00. Advance res­ervations (which are essential) to be made with John A. Hoyt, Jr., '33, 20 Vesey St. New York City. 
NEW ORLEANS CLUB. Post-Tulane game Get-Together. Jack­son Room, Hotel St. Charles, Nov. 23, 5 P.M. 
The Springfield contingent was host at the meeting on Aug. 19. Tliis was the most en­couraging meeting to date as there were at icast 10 men present wlio liad not attended previously. Of the 10 about seven were men returning to the University to complete war-interrupted educations. Their enthusiasm and support was heartening. 
At the Springfield meeting fall dance, plans were reviewed. Tom Curry discussed the con­templated Retreat, and Tim Murphy organized tlie ticket distribution. It was a busy, reason­ably happy evening until Tim read his report as treasurer. 
But, We AHE making organizational and social progress. AI Lawton 
Delaware 
Dr. G. F. Ilenniun of Xotre Dame's chemistrj­department was a recent visitor to Wilming­ton. Quite a few of tlie club members, in­cluding Bill Murray, Art Baum. Fen FiruninK Don Killian, and Ed DUInn got together with Dr. Hennlon at an informal dinner followed by a bull session at Ed's. Tom GillcNple was also a recent visitor to town, having been recently discharged from the Navy. The roof at Baum's is still quivering from that party. 
Chariry Ralcj- and I have returned to Xotre Dame to finish the graduate work in chemistry*. 
Paul CbapDt, with the Shari>les Chemical Co. in Philadelphia, is going to South America in tlie near future. He expects to be gone several montlis on company business. 
John RHth 
Detroit 
The Detroit Club opened its important fall-winter season of activities Sept. 17 with the annual golf tournament at Meadowbrook Coun-­tr>- Club. Almost 90 men were present at the dinner following the 19th hole and excellent prizes of everj* description were given out to those present by co-chairmen Bert Baur and Tom Sheehan. Members from Flint and a guest from the Toungstown Club were among those present. 
President Morris announced the following schedule of club activities for tlie balance of the year: Oct. 22—Past President's dinner, with John Brennui as chairman; Xov. 17— annual party for the benefit of the club scholarship fund: Xov. 30^:—A cIul)-sponsored trip of 500 to the Notre Dame-Southern Cal game under the chairmanship of J. J. Gorman, Jr.; Dec. 8—Universal Xotre Dame Communion Sunday; Dec 2S—X renewal of the pre-war Christmas dances in the Crystal Ballroom of the Book Cadillac Hotel in conjunction with tlie campus club, chairmaned by John Anhut and Jack Brren. 
Individual notices will be sent out prior to each meeting. 
At this writing it appears that, through the efforts of the club, the Xotre Dame football games will be broadcast over a local station. 
Ed Rone}­
Kentucky 
We have been holding our regular monthly meetings and our attendance is increasing because of the boys returning from the service. We had our Communion-break'f;ist the second week in July, and at our meeting In-Juno we listened to the Ix>uis-Conn fight. - Bowling alleys have been reserved and our liowling season will begin Sept. 16 and will end with 

a tournament on April 7, 1947. The club had an outini; on July 27; this was a stag affair and turned out to be very successful. 
Our latest meeting was held on Auff. 22 at which time we made deflnite plans to sponsor trips to see Notre Dame play: one trip the Purdue game and tlie other the Northwestern game. 
We have on our mailing list over 100 mem­bers and an active membership of about 50 or 60. Paul Tafel 
Milwaukee 
We are always enthuslnstlc about broadcast­ing the "local-boy-makcs-good" sort of story. Tlie following items fall in that category. Euicene J> Guldubini, *29, was recently ap­pointed Purchasing Agent for the Perfex Cor­poration. Gene had for some time previously held the position of Assistant Sales ifanager with that organization. John Madden, *17. is now manager of the South Side branch of tlie Edward's Motor Co. Maurice J. Scanhm, "33. has recently severed his connection with the 
O. P. A. and has gone Into the insurance business. Anotlier up and coming insurance underwriter is Benjamin V. I>ela-Hunt, '31. Ben has been back in ^lilwaukce for. some time and Is anxious to hear from some of the gang. James II. Wheeler, '20, heads his own success­ful business, the Essential Chemicals Co. Jim conducted an all out but unsuccessful cam­paign for classmate Patrick G. "Jerrj'" Powirrs, who was a candidate for congressman. 
Charles O'Neill, *27 and Frank Bruce, of the Milwaukee Publishing Bruces, spent several days on the campus in the early part of Septemt>er while they were attending the National Conference of the Society of St. A'in­cent De Paul, which was held on the St. Mary's campus. Both were extremely pleased by the welcome extended and entertainment furnished by Bill Do<»ley. Speaking of the cam­pus, this area was well represented there during Commencement and Reunion time, among them Grover 31iller, 'IC. Dr. John K. Dundon, '14. Ilarold C. Watson. *25. Charles 
A. O'Xeill, *27, William £. Bninii. *29, John Demift:ey. '31. Bill Gottsacker, '36, and Bill Mulaney* *41. 
The C<irriRaii twins, Jim and John, '35, got together for awhile tliis summer. John, recently out of service and Jim, prior to re­turning to the Jesuit liouse of studies at St. ilary's, Kans., were home for the occasion of the wedding of their sister, Jeanne, to a former Notre Dame man, Jock Lodky, ex. '42. John then spent some time visiting old friends and once familiar places in and around New York, while Jim spent most of the summer at the Jesuit scliool at Prairie du Chlen, Wis. 
The Milwaukee Club is proud beyond words of one of its members, who, early in the sum­mer, contributed $10,000 to the Bacteriological Laboratories at tlie University. This gift was made jointly by John P. and ilazle Wopner. Mr. AVagner attended Notre Dame in 1910-11, and is now president of the Yellow Cab Co., in Milwaukee. 
The belief held by many a returning service­man that the people at home have already forgotten the many promises made so easily during the trying days of the war, particularly with reference to seeing that returning men would not be without homes, is not held by at least one GI. He Is the occupant of the renovated summer house on Ed K«(cerr.% '17, property. Eddie had the shelter completely remodeled, installed electricity, gas and water, and is now occupied by a GI and wife—rent free.. All of us feel a tinge of permissable pride when we realize that we are associated with such as Eddie. 
The club wishes to e.Ytcnd to Paul, '2S and John, '34. Bmst sincere sympathies on the death of their father. Peter Brust. Mr. Brust was one of Milwaukee's leading architects and head­ed the Arm of Brust and Brust, in which Paul was associated with him. Paul was elected vice-president of Milwaukee Serra Inter­national for the coming year. The Serra Club is a club for Catholic laymen, on the order of the Rotarj', with branches in leading cities. 
Prof Y"ves Simon, of the Notre Dame facul­ty, taught several classes during the summer session at Marquette University. Also teach­ing at ilarquette are John Pick, in the De­partment of Englisli and Michael Malonry of the same department. 
Back on July 25. the club sponsored a picnic. It was held at the Port Washington Countrj-Club. and believe you me. If any of you out-of-towners ever pay a visit here, prevail upon your host to take you to dinner at the P. W.­
C. C. for one of their famous steaks. Even the men who couldn't iron out lOO in the afternoon golf session, forgot all about it when confronted by the steak dinners. Those present were: Kod Sullivan, '24. Ben l>elar-IIunt, '31, Bill Malunvy, '41, Dick 0'.M«lia, CiifT Buckley, 
•41. Bob Ilartman (Stud.). Bob Duffy, (Student —taking summer classes at Marquette). Dr. John Dundon, *I4, Fred Keiler, Eddie Kosers, '17. Don Gottsehak, '3S. John J. Burke, *35. Bill Brown, '29. Dan Ilushek, *40, Paul Brust, '2S. Ed Redmond, '30, John B. P.ck, K. B. Pick, Clias. Walter, Charles Jofikwhich, Iter. GenrKc .Meaglier, CS.C., Tom Rolfs, and others. 
Another news item of particular importance at this time is a Communion-Breakfast meet­ing which we had on September 29. This was held at the St. Charles Boys* Home, which is operated by the Congregation, under the guid­ance of Brother Lawrence, C.S.C. Father Jwliu Lyiieli attended from Notre Dame. 
Thomas K. Di.von 

New Orleans 
All Notre Dame alumni and their guests are Invited by the club to the get-together party which will be held in tlie Jackson Room of the St. Charles Hotel. New Orleans, follow­ing the Tulane-Notre Dame game- This party will provide a splendid opportunity for alumni of the Soutli and Southwest, particularly, to meet each other and to meet some of the campus representatives at the game. 
New York City 
The Club will be meeting the second Wednes­day in every month at the Waldorf, the first fall meeting being Sept. 11. Jim Crowley, liead of the All--A.merica Football League, was the principal speaker. 
At a meeting of the Board of Directors, Tiemey O'Rourke, cliairman of tlie Reunion and Rally Committee, said that plans wore well under way for the annual Army game Rally which will be held at tlie Waldorf-Astoria Hotel on Friday evening. Nov. S. Ed Sullivan, well-known 'columnist, will again be the master of ceremonies, and he has promised a very fine sliow. 
Preference for seats for the Rally will be given to club members who have paid their dues and every effort will be niatle to keep the affair strictly an alumni one. Tickets are $3. which will include tax, and applications can be made by letter (accompanied by check) to John A. Iloj-t, Jr., Secretary, Notre Dame Club of New Y'ork, 20 Vesey St.. New York 7. 
N. Y. The Board has adopted the policy of tirst come, first served. 
Ed Beckmun, vice president of the club, has "completed a survey of the local aluntni and has compiled a complete, up-to-date mailing list of all living In the New York area. He should be congratulated on his splendid Job, and the club is proud to announce that our list now contains 1,270 names. Through further efforts of Ed as vice president in charge of membership, about one-tlilrd of all members are dues-paying. 
Ed Nealier Is chairman of the Annual Re­treat committee, and Warren FcKel is chair­man of the club's trip to the Navy game in Baltimore. 
Plans are under way for the Dec. S Com­munion Breakfast, and, through Ctmy John­son, we have obtained a promise from Emll Schram, president of the New York Stock Exchange, to attend as guest speaker, and we also expect our old friend, Xonsicnor She«n» to be with us again. We are going to try to make this year's Communion Breakfast a family affair. 
At a recent meeting of the Board of Gover­nors. Colman O'SbaoshneNnr was appointed chairman of the Public Relations committee, and it. is expected that various alumni Clubs throughout the country will be hearing about us in their local papers when Colman gets under way. John A, Hoyt, Jr. 
Peoria 
Not a lot has happened during the summer months here in Peoria but we expect to be active again. AM the members are novr work­ing for the success of the Football Special we are sponsoring for the Notre Dame-North­western game. We are running a six-car train direct to South Bend. 
The Peoria Notre Dame Club and the Central Illinois Club, a campus organization, had a joint picnic this summer and it was very successtul. The grads beat the students in a game of Softball. Onn Becht 
Phoenix 
At our meeting on Aug. 26, an election of olficers was held and the following oflficers were elected: Resis J. Fallon, ex. '24. presi­dent: Dr. C. F. Riscer, '40, vice president; Lester C. HeKcle, '28, treasurer, and John P. Joyce, ex. '40, secretarj-. 
The meeting was for the fellows now attend­ing Notre Dame and those who are entering. Among those attending were:R. li. Fenderson, Jr., Gsorce 8. Marfcluun, John A. Miller, who are present students, and Cluistuui F. Rlaser, '40. Glenn J. McDonoach* and Bill Mahoney, ex. track coach at Notre Dame. 
John P. Joyce 

Western Pennsylvania 
The Annual Summer Golf party was held at the Stanton Heights Countrj* Club in July. There was a record attendance of 60 odd members. Among those who put In an ap­pearance sometime during the day and night were: Dr. lieo ^O'Donnell, FMher Vince Bren­nan, Leo Vosel, John McMahon, Dr. Dick 0*Toole and Imrry 0*T<N>le, Fkvnk and Jack 0*I>oniiell, the Crafton <contlngent Messrs Dil­lon and Saehr, the Inseparable delegates from the Class of '33. Bob Fulton, ^Inee Burke and lArry Smith, Paul McArdle. Bill SIxsmith, Frits Wilson, Larrr finrixht. Jack Riordan, Hnrbie Gallacher, Bemie Conroy and Ed Huff. 
Gcorve Schill is back from the wars with a breastful of ribbons. George spent several years In Africa, and was retired from the Service with the rank of lieutenant colonel. George has returned to his old position as custodian of the city's unarmored vehicles. Bill O'Toole returned after a post war sojourn on the continent. Bill served through most of the European campaigns, and attended the GI university In S^vltzerland for sjx months. Bill s:xsmUh and Ed M«Hach have Joined the ranks of the bonpdicts. 
Sf. LOUIS 
The officers for this year, recently elected are: Albert J. Ravarino, '35, president; Fred C. Weber, Jr., '36, vice president; Fred S. McNeill, *36, treasurer; John J. Griflln, Jr., *39. secre­tary. Fred McNeill has been working day and night getting a directory of Notre Dame men in this area compiled for printing. Any Notre Dame men in the St. Louis area who have not been contacted, please get in touch with- one of the ofTlLcrs. 
The Board of Directors for this year are as follows: Bcrtrand D. Cuuffhlin, *2G; Kolond y, Damcfi. *33; Ijouis C. FehliR-, '37; Charles Giomi; Bobert T. Hdlrunc, '30; James A. Hill, '35; Joseph B. McGlynn, '12; Richard C. Mnckerman, 'IG; John J. Tenxe. Jr., *4G; Fmnk 
X. Tully^ '39; Matthew W- Weis, '22; Valda H. Wrape, '22. 
Continuing along the line of CatlioHc Action: the club drafted a letter of objection to the St- Louis "Post-Dispatch" after that paper had published an editorial criticising the Pope for participating in International Affairs. Un­fortunately the letter was not printed. 
On August 11, our Eleventh Annual Picnic was held at the farm of the late John I* Corley, *03. Mrs. Corley was our kind hostess as she has been for the past eleven years. There were some 400 in attendance. Mort J. L.UCUS, Sr., *14, was chairman, assisted by Bill Gillespie, *44, and Warren Hellmnff. 
Last week we entertained the students witli a luncheon at the University Club. This is an annual affair which assists us in keeping close contact with the undergraduates. Frwl Weber, 
•3G. handled tlie program which included an inspiring talk by Joe 3feGIynn, '12. 
The Scholarship Fund campaign for MC-MT is being handled by Walter George, '32. and Fred S. McNeUI, '36. 
AVe missed the last issue so we had to crowd a lot into this one. You can readily see that the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis is a Jjve-wire outfit. Hope to see you at one of the games. John J. Griffin, Jr. 
Toledo 

The dinner for Coach Leahy in Toledo on Sept. 10 came off with true Notre Dame eclat. Even the committee was astounded at the number of guests- Places were sot for 400. almost a wild dream they thought. But as the crowd gathered It looked as if more places would have to be added. They did find a place for everyone in the 400 prepared. 
Msgr, "Walz, Chancellor of the Diocese, repre­sented tlie Bishop and Father Harrington, principal of Catholic Central, was also at the head table. Four of Ohio State's coacliing staff and three of the Notre Dame staff were at the head table together with the Coach of "Waite High in Toledo, the host for the Coach­ing School. 
The dinner was perfect. Not a complaint did I hear about tlie food or the service. Such steaks! Big, thick, tender and juicy. Does your mouth water? 
Ready for the dessert they turned off the heavy lights and the musical trio played the "Victory March" as the waitresses, each with a tray on which was placed a moulded mound of ice cream decorated with green roses (also ice cream), wound their way through the ban­quet hall in a simulated snake dance. They Wound up in a solid line in back of the head table when the lights were turned up- Spectacu­lar! 
Fred Sprcnpcr did a neat job as MC. Bemie £nslisli introduced him and he quickly got into the matter of presenting all at the head table and some of the more distinguished guests on the floor. Leahy was the only one 
•who made a speech, the rest of us just took a bow. And Leahy held his audience. Not long-winded either. 
The Club will make little if anything on the venture hut they certainly" demonstrated to Toledo what they can do. One of the Ohio State coaches sat next to me and remarked that he did not know we had so many alumni in Toledo. I had to tell hira they were not all alumni but all were close friends of Notre Dame. But the Club deserves a hearty word of encouragement for their work. 
Twin Cities 
Highlighted by the return of veterans and recent graduates, the first postwar golf tour­nament of the club was held Aug. 27 at the Minnesota Valley Country Club. Low total on the dillicult Valley course was scored by Ben Storey, guest of Faul Salli\-an, uith Bab Rogers, fresh from the Navy and sporting a Tagalog accent, finishing second. Leo Roth won the bogey crown, having scored the most seven's. 
In a spirited business meeting following dinner, club president Bill Gnimondt discussed the possibility of a football trip and outlined plans for the annual Christmas Formal. Bill proceeded to appoint veteran Christmas Ball promoters Lou Re^an and Jack Doyle, assisted by B*ib RiiRcrs, to investigate facilities avail­able for the Ball. 
The 'club welcomed the return of many vet­erans and several new members including John Moskalck, JCax-j- student at Notre Dame, and John Young, '40. late of the New .Tersey Alum­ni Club and now a Minneapolis resident. 
Just a day after the tournament, the Ball committee disclosed that the Christmas Formal is scheduled for Dec. 2S and will he held at the Hotel St. Paul. The Formal is considered, by universal acclaim, the most popular dance of the holiday season and always attracts alumni front western "Wisconsin and out-state Minnesota, as well as local alumni-
New club oflicers whose names have not appeared in the "Alumnus'* are, in addition to Bill Guimondt, president: Jim Iliniker and Gene De Lay, vice-presidents; Faul De Lay, secretary; and Leo 3Iauren, treasurer. 
Paul De liay 
Woshingfon, D. C. 

The Washington, D. C. Club had its fifth annual Retreat June 28-30 at Holy Cross College. Rev. Georxe B. Fischer, C.S.C., of the Holy Cross Mission Band was the able retreat master and Sam **Bo** Jticltords was tlie chairman in charge. 
Retreatants in the picture are: front row, left to right, John C. Kirby, George C Howard, Jr., Father Ftschco*, Rev. Bernard E. Ransinr, C.S.C., rector of Holy Cross College. Sam Richards, Leo F. Mullin, John T. Baczenas; back row. Joseph B. Shea, Chuck Kralovec, John V. 3IcDevitl, Hanild B. Desnoyers, Joseph 
L. Fitzmauricre, Patrick J. Conmiy, Gefirre L. Uaitlicock, Edward L. Boyle and John L. Kenkel. 
Absent when the picture was taken were: Dr. J. A. Flynn, Bill Jone&, Dr. W. A. Mont­avon and John X. M. Bennett. 
Y^oungsfown 
Plans have been completed for the members of the Youngstown Club to take their annual jaunt to South Bend- Jack Hai^en, Jim CoUe­ran, Chariie Cnshwa, John and Gabe Moran, Bill Dunlevy and Pete Sheehan are among those wlio plan to attend the Purdue-Notre Dame game in a group-

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
The bowling season is under way again and as usual the local club is a leading contender to hold down the cellar slot in the Catholic Z«eague. 
Preliminary steps have been taken to hold a Communion Breakfast early this fall. 
Bait McCnllion and Mario MaHsnllo have re> turned from the service and should be back In school by now. Bart hopes to study law While Mario plans to attend medical school. 
OUT OF SERVICE* 
Henry J. Dillon. Denver, Colo., A.; Thomas 
W. Sheridan. Bergerfieid. N. J., N. 
Andrew N. Galone. Pittsburgh, Pa., A.; Thomas E. Nash. Chicago. 111.. A. 
Daniel J. Bradley. Amltyville. N. Y.. A.; Francis E. David. Jr.. New Orleans, Ln.. A. 
1929 John R. Nash. Chicago. 111.. A.; Robert il. Trotter. Chicago, 111.. A. 
1930 Leo H. Carney. Erie, Pa.. X.; Patrick J. Conway. Hyattsville, Md.. N.; George E. Erwin. Xewington. Conn.. A-; Harry H. Francis. Jr.. Paoli. Pa.. A.; Thomas A. Keegan. Rocicford, 111., N.; Walter J. Scholand. Fairport. N. Y.. N".; John D. Yelland, Minneapolis. ^linn.. N. 
1931 Edward R. Brennan. Garj-, Ind., X.; "William 
J. McAleer. Altoona, Pa-, A.: Frederick J. Rahaim. Jacksonville. Fla.. N. 
1933 Paul B. Belden. Jr., Canton. O., A.; John 
D. Carney. Hartford, Conn., A.; William P. Cass. Jr., Kenmore, N. Y., N.; Francis J. Con-boy, Auburn. N, Y.. A.; Richard P. Lambert. Jr., Arso. III.. X.; Angelo B. Luckett, Jlilan. Tenn., N.; 'Wiiliam C. Otto, Lincoln, Xebr.. N.; Rem! O. Renier. Chicago, 111., A.; William G. Weir. Brooklyn. X. Y., A. 
1933 
Francis R. Buhl, Dayton, O., X.; Daniel J. Casey, Chicago, 111., N.: Henry J. Cluver. Xew York City, A.; Howard A. Douville. Alpena. Mich.. A.; Joseph A. Hofmann. Jr., Closter, 
X. J., A.; John G. Jaeger, Xew York City, X.; John J. McXeill, Xew Cumberland, Pa., N.; William R. Robison. Ottumwa. la., X.; Xorbert 
F. Schwartz, Salina, Kan.. A.; Tighe E. Woods. Chicago. III.. X. 
1934 
Edward J. Butler. Phila., Pa.. A.; Robert C. Chenal. Cincinnati, O., A.R.C.; Leo J. Cronan, Bei'erly Farms, Mass., X.; Joseph E. Dwyer, Joliet, Hi., A. ; Hugh F. Fitzgerald. Beech­hurst, N. Y.. N.: John R. Hagan. Youngstown. O., A.; William W. Huisking, Huntington, N. Y.. A. 
1935 James F. Bowdren, Jr., Winchester, Mass.. X.; William C. Cronin. Oil City, Pa., A.; James 
M. Dwyer, Hudson Fails, X. T.. A.; John P. English. Seattle, Wash., X.; Cliaries R. Fehr, Spring Valley, 111.. N.; George J. Foss. Chicago, III., X.; Jordan T. Hargrove. Little Neck. X. Y., N.; Donald W. Love, Buffalo, X, Y., X.; James 
C. MacDevitt, Jr., Great Neck. N. Y., A.; Charl,s E. Maher, Kansas City, Mo.. N.; Joseph 
B. Myron, Jamaica, N. Y., A.; John F. Novak. Jr., Lackawanna. N. Y., N.; James W. Pick. Rochester, Minn., A.; Lawrence W. Smith. Jr.. East Liverpool, C, A.: Walter R. Tj-iutki. Chi­cago. II., A. 
*Code: A, Almr: H, Vmrr; M, Xorines; CG, Coaat Gwud. 

1936 William H. Belden, Canton. O.. A.; Irwln P. Crotty, International Falls, Minn., N.; William 
E. FJannery, Brooklyn, N. T., Louis T. Gabriel. Jr., Etdred, Pa.. A.; Fredericlc R; Gabriel, Bldred, Pa.. A.: Louis A. Lange, Fond du Lac, Wis., A.; Donnell J. McCormack. Mempliis. Tcnn.. A.: John G. O'Mailcy, Jr.. Phoenix. Ariz., A.; Dominick J. Varraveto, Jr.. Be\*erly Shores. Ind., N. 
1937 Louis G. Alaman, Wilmington, Del., A.; Wil­liam J. Bailey. Detroit, Mich., A.; Francis C. Barbusli, Harrisburg, Pa., A.; Thomas P. Be­han, Syracuse, X. Y.. A.; William H. Fallon, New Rochelic, N. r.. A.; Jolm J. Pitzpatrick, Jr., Albany, N. Y., N.; John A. Gillespie. Wcst­fleld. N. J., A.; William H. Graham, Michigan City. Ind., A.; Francis J. Hardart, Jr.. Forest Hills. N. Y., A.; Edward P. Huisking. Hunt­ington. N. Y.. M.; James K. Marr. Upland. Calif., A.; James A. Xlouldor, Reading. Pa., A.; Charles G. Roggensteln, Rockvllle Centre, X. y.. A.: John M. Wallach, Now York. X. Y.. N.; Gerald J. Zelllor, Wlnthrop, Me., A. 
1938 Floyd E. Brewer, sycamore. 111.. X.: Custode 
A. Crisci, Phila., Pa.. A.; Thomas J. Elder. Coshocton. O., A.; Thom.is P. Hcaly, Chevy Chase, Md., A.; Edward P. Hogan, Bingham­ton, X. Y., A.: Charles A. Kolp. Jr., Canton, O.. X.; Robert F. Magee, East Aurora. X'. Y.. A.; Emery A. Sherwood. Flint. Mich., X.; John 
F. Tangney, Chicago, 111., X. 
1939 Thomas R. Bossort, Jr., Seattle. Wash., A.; Edward M. Broscoo, Syracuse, N. Y.. X.; Marion 
R. Burkholder, Troy, O., A.; John .\. Callag­han, Bristol, Conn., A.; William A. Carpenter, Port Henrj-, X. Y., A.; John B. Cella, Fresno. Calit.. A.; Leo E. Hall, CoIuml>us, O., X.; James 
A. Johnson. Scarsdale. X. T., X.: Joseph P. Klnnealey, Jlilton, Jlass.. A.; Paul J. Mc.irdlc. Pittsburgh. Pa.. A.; John A. McGuire. Chicago. III., X.; Nicholas J. Meagher, Vernal, Utah. A.: James G. Meyer, Livermore, Ky.. M.: Joseph 
B. Moorman. Jr.. Cincinnati, O., A.; George 
J. Xeumann. Chicago. 111.. A.: Richard J. O'SIelia. Milwaukee, Wis., M.; George M. O'Xeil. Jr., Pelham, N. Y., X.: Francis Jl. Payne. Jr.. East Cleveland. O.. X.; Francis A. Reppen­hagen. Ill, Kenmore. N. Y.. C. G. .; Salvatore 
P. Scarlata. Jamaica. X. Y., A.; Walter L. Schrader, Iron Mountain, Mich., X.; Thomas 
J. Schriner, Lakewood. O., A.: John H. Weber, Galesburg, 111., A­
1910 

Frank Y. Aubrey, Nor\vich. Conn., A.: Henry 
P. Borda. East Orange, N. J., N.: George K. Costello, Crystal Lake, 111.. A.; Bernard K. Crawford, North Arlington. N- J., N.; Bernard 
J. Eilers. Rochester, N. Y.. A.; Henry IC Engel. Indlnnapolis. Ind.. X.; John C. Flanagan, Kingston. N. Y., X.; Donald R. Gllllland. Jeffer­son. Mo., A.; John J. Hayes. Edina. Mo., A.: John E. Hiclnbothem. Peoria. 11.. A.; William 
J. Hogan. New Y'ork City. A.; John J. Joyce. Slahanoy City, Pa., A.; Charles E. Ltngenfelder, Memphis, Tenn., A.; William S. McKenna. Detroit. Mich., A.: Edward J. Maher. Jr.. Jersey City, N. J.. N.; Paul B. Menneg, Wash­ington, D. C A.; Charles J. O'Brien, Alliance, O., A.: James W. Plummer, Zanesville. O., A.; Peter J. Rellly. Pleasantville. N. Y.. A.: Vincent J. Ryan, Xew Tork City. A.; Amadeo 
B. Salll, Savannah, N. Y.. N.; Floyd J. Sullivan, Xewton. Wisconsin. A. 
1941 

Joseph L. Buckler. Louisville. Ky.. A.; Michael E. Derbin. Mishawaka, Ind., A.; An­thony E. DeSimon, Rochester, N. Y'., A.; William D. Gagan. Jr.. M.; James J. Hannl­gan. Jr., Phila.. Pa.. N.; Vincent vr. Hart-nett. Pelham. N. T., N.; Arthur J. Humby. Hartford. Conn., A.; Frederick E. Lentz. Algonac, Mich., A.; Thomas J. McGee, Jr., Brooklyn, N. T., N.; Edward C. McHugh, Jr., Ptttsburch, Pa., A.; Clarence W. Marquardt. 
Jr., Oak Park, 111., X.; Richmond A. Mead, Jr.. Forest Hills, L. I.. N. Y^.. A.; Robert E. Moran, Oklahoma City, Okla., A.; Edward P-Murphy, Jr., Jackson Heights, X. Y„ N.;-James 
H. Murray. Jr.. Baltimore. Md., C. G.: Donald 
R. Murtagh, Chicago, 111.; J. D. O'Brien, Cambridge, ^lass., N.; Richard C. O'Connor, Indianapolis, Ind.. A.; Thaddeus S. Porawski. Bayonne, N. J., N.: Francis J. Rehme, Shelby­vllle, Ind.. A.: George -A.. Schrelber. Albu­querque. N. M.. N.; Daniel G. Sullivan. St. Albans. L. I.. N. T.. N.; Robert B. W^elly, Toledo. O.. N.; James D. Wrape. Paragonid, Ark., A. 
1912 James E. Asmuth, Milwaukee. Wis., N,; John 
X. Borda, Stamford, Conn., A.; John B. Carney. Dos Moines, la., A.: Thomas P. Carroll, Chicago, 111., N.; Thomas P. Comerford, Scranton, Pa., X.; Daniel J. Culllnane. Bayonne. N, J., M.: David "W. Devlns. itinneapolls. Minn.. N.; Raymond H. Eblt. Ironwood. Mich.. N.; Robert 
E. Itagan, Pittsburgh. Pa., A.; Bruce A. Heben­stroit, Albuquerque, N. 51., A.: Benedict J. JaskoskI, Velva. N. D.. X.: Leo A. Lanigan, Chicago, III.. A.: Robert C. LcJeune, Chicago, 111.. N.: James P. McNuIty, Chicago, HI.. N.: William B. Madden. Lake Placid, N. Y., N.: William A. Marshall, Winnetka, III., N.: Francis 
J. xreehan. Newton, Mass.. A.; William B. Meier. Faulkton. S. D.. A.; Richard C. Murphy, Jr., Forest Hills. L. I., N. Y., A.: Roy E. Murray, Jr., Butte, Mont., X.; Joseph M. Prokop. Cleveland. O.. X.: Francis B. Qulnn. Indianapolis. Ind., X.: Robert H. Raff. Chicago. 111., X.: Gerard J. Rabbett. Jackson Heights. 
X. Y.. N.: Henrj- P. Schrenker. Elwood. Ind.. X".: Eugene J. Schumaker. Milwaukee, Wis., 
A. , I 1 
1943 .Tulian G- Atwater. St. Augustine. Fla., N.: William J. Brady. New London. Conn.. N.: Edward D. Callahan. Lynn. Mass., N.: Joseph 
F. Callahan. Niagara Falls. X. Y.. N.: Thomas 
J. Cooney. X.; James R. Clark. Cincinnati. O.. .\.: Robert A. Derengoslvl, Jfanistee. Mich.. A.: John P. Donovan. Hibbing. Jllnn.. N.: Gail D. Fitch. Oak Park. III.. X.: Robert E. Gillette. Schenectady. X. Y.. X.: Donald B. Guy. Cam­bridge. Mas.'j.. N.: .John L. Harrigan, Los Ange­les. C.allf.. X.: Arthur T. Karthelser, Chicago, III.. N.: Francis B. Ke.Trns. Hemet, Calif.. A.; diaries V. Kralovec. LaGrange. Til.. N.: Walter 
C. Lixmbert. Jr.. Argo, III.. N.: William A. McGowan. Jersey Shore. P.a., X.: Edgar C. ^IcX.amara. Indianapolis. Ind.. M.: John E. MncCloments. Charlotte. X'. C. N.: Peter V. Mancinl. Connersvllle. Ind.: William B. Mldden­dort. Covington. Ky,. X'.; Donald J. Jliller. Cambridge. Mass., N.: Thomas S. Milter. TVil­mlngton. Del.. N.: John R. Mllllman. Detroit. Mich.. A.: Robert P. Nenno. Buffalo. N. T., N.; Joseph T. Norrls. Brooklyn. N. T.. N".; James J. O'Donnell. Detroit. Mich.. A.: William .T. O'Nell, Akron. O.. A.: Richard B. Padesky. Toledo. O.. A.: .Tohn J. Peasenelll. Stamford. Conn.. N.: Bartholomew J. R.amsour. Joplln. Mo., X'-; John C. Russell, Lewiston. Sfe.. A.; Daniel J. Sullivan, .Jr.. Huntington Woods. Mich.. N.: Thomas M. Sweeney. Indianapolis. Ind., X.: W^aldo W. Wilson. Jr.. St. Louis. Mo.. M.; Ernest E. Zlmmer. Cincinnati. O.. N. 
1914 Guldo A. Alexander, Columbus, O.. A.; John 
W. Anhut. Detroit. Mich.. N.; Peter M. Bel­mont. Upper Montclalr. N. J.. N.: John T. Boldrick. Lebanon, Ky., A.; William E. C.arrico, Centervllle, Mich., N.; John H. Conway. Tulsa, Okla.. N.: Thomas A. Costello. Crystal L.ike, 111., A.: John H. Crahan. Napoleon. O.. N.: Kenneth A. Forbes, Des Plalnea, 111.. N.; Joseph 
P. Gall. Superior, 'Wis'.. N.: Edward E. Ghtgll­ottl. Staten Island. N. T., N.; William H. Grafe, Jr.. Cinclnn.-itl. O., N. 
John E. Herllhy, Jr., New London. Conn.. N.: W^illlam J. Howe. Jr.. Chicago. II.. N.; Charles 
G. Lyden. Carbondale. Pa.. N.; James A. Kel­lej-, Wilmington, Del., A.; Robert J. Kroth, Paw Paw. Mich., N.; Thomas J. McCarty, Kau­kauna. Wis., N-; John J. Martin. South Bend, Ind., N.; John C. O'Bourke, Chicago, 111., N.; John J. Prince, Jr., Ann Arbor, Mich., N.: Richard E. Reynolds. Saugertles. N. T.. A.; 
Daniel J. Roorke, Greenwich. N. T., N.; Joseph 
W. Scheuch, Bronx, N. X.. N.; Austin R. Sharp, Ridcewood. N. J.. N.; Edward J. Singelyn, Highland Park. Mich., N.; Edward 
C. Stelner, Jr.. Dajrton. O., N.; Henry P. Stretcher, Toledo, C , A.: John a Matters, New Orleans, La., N.; .William P. Webb, Bismarck, 
N. D., N.; George R. Wendt. Chicago, Hi., N.; Herbert P. Zleder, Jr., Kansas City Mo., N. 
IMS 

Francis M. Ahem, Hartford. Conn., N.; Arthur L. Anderson, Jr., Aalt, Colo., N.; James 
C. Andres, Central City, la., N.; James P. Clarke, Denver, Colo., N.; Joseph P. Fisher, Coraopolia, Pa., N.; William P. Grant Erie, Pa., N.; Walter L. Jaworakl, South Bend, Ind., A.; Frank J. Keenan. Dover. N. H., N.; Fred­eric G. Maurer, Lima, O., A.; Theodore V. Oppenhelm, Coldwater, C ; A. 
1M« 

Richard L. Bevington, Nashville, Tenn., N.; James D. Huxford. Shaneateles, N. Y., M.; Donald J. Macdonell, Detroit, Mich., N.; Law­rence E. Merman, Monroe, Mich.; Donald J. Diederlch, Madison, Wis., N. 
CLEVEUND NEWS (Ute) 

The election of officers for this year was held in May at Chock Rolir's restaurant. Elect­ed were: president, Thonims C Bynie; vice-president, Edward Sehrvcter: treasurer, rrmacis Payne, Jr.; secretary, Tliomas E. Enrisht. 
James p. <RU) Canny was named honorary, president, JfUther James Mono, chaplain, Frmncis J. XcGroder, membership secretary, Karl Martentteck, chairman of the Relisious Committee. Board of Governors: Havb O'Neill, chairman: Norman McLmd, Tom MnUiKaa. 
Scholarship Committee: Frank X €Mt, Jmutm Dnbbs, Sr.. Cbkytaa Leiowc, Edward KUIeen, and Tom C. Byrne. The four officers of the past year. Ed Killeea, Al Grisanti, Jervy Ham­mer and Shorty Kosak did an excellent job, one of their achievements being^ the publica­tion of a directory, of all the Notre Pame alumni and students residing in the Cleveland area. 
During- the summer the Club had a family picnic under the chairmanship of Jerry Hammer at the beautiful Gilmour Academy operated by the Holy Cross Brothers. Every­one had a grand time and especially the children in the special events arranged for them and under the guidance of Georve Kasjk and Norm McLeod. 
The students had a summer dance which was also held at Gilmour Academy. Brother Tbeophaae and Brather Gomaca were very gracious and co-operative with the committee, which was headed by Fftnl Abiahan, president of the Cleveland Club at school, ably assisted by £«cene Kane and Gerald CorrisaB. Ed Carey of the Alumni Club also gave them a hand. It was a very successful party. Both the picnic and the dance gave Xotre Dame men a good opportunity of seeing the new high school. It is certainly a very substantial addition to the Catholic high school system in this area. 
Bob ISmeiammn and tils cohorts are busily engaged with the Army game activity. 
Tom Mnlllgaw is chairman of the weekly luncheon held every Thursday at Bohr's. On Nov. 15 the club will sponsor Father Flanlgan's Boya Town Choir Concert at the Music Hall. Trmak. McGrodcr is chairman of this event. Jiaa Baike is chairman of the Christmas dance to be held Dec. S6. and he will be assisted by Johany Doyle> 
SMhcr Cbaries Skeedjr, C.S.C., '33 was in town during the summer. nUhcr Cliariie, Jba Upriehard, Ed KUIeea, Seott Shecdy, who has been transferred to Cleveland with The Pitts­burg Plate Glass Co.. Dave CTmptoa and yours truly had lunch at Bohr's. Father Sheedy gave an impromptu talk at our Catholic Action cell meeting that night at Jka CWleraa'a new home in Bocky River. Tom Eailght 
The Nofre Dame AJumnus 
» »
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 

Miss Anne Allen Peacock and l>r- John .T. O'Connor, e-x- *3C. 
Miss Irma Alice 2ahl and Xornnin A. Bras­seur, ex. '39. 
Miss Margaret Mary Norton and Lt. Churtes 
L. CunnifT, AUS, *-Il. 

Miss Emily Ramsay Young^ and John M. I>yc"r, ex. '41. 
Miss Virginia M. Isaacson and Eugene F. Hunt, ••12. 
Miss Mar>- M. Wilson and Joseph W\ Knttft, 
Miss ilary Louise Lucitt and Jtihn L. Uarri­ran, '43. 
Marriages 

Miss Louise Joanna Lambert and John J. MeA%'oj- III, '33, Scarsdale, N, Y.. Aug. 25. 
Miss Alice Mary Stevens and Lt. Cmdr. William A. McCarthy, IJSNR. '34, San Fran­cisco, Calif.. Aug. 9­
Miss Helen I.anigan and. C**'- DeshiBe Brown, ex. '34. 
Miss Kieanor Flynn and Thomas J. FJynn, '35, Washington, D. C, May 1". 
Miss Lor wiener and Fred A. De-chmann, II, *3G. Santa Monica, Calif., Aug. 1. 
Miss Marj- Slack Cline and Nclstm N. L:ini­pert, '37, Chicago, July 19. 
Miss Winifred Swan and John E. Fiana^n, '3S, Jan. 3. 
Miss Elizabeth M. ilunley and Edward P. Ilosinn, '3S, Scranton, J'a., June 15. Jim Hogan, '34. was best man. 
Miss Cecelia Teresa Labor and James G. McGoldrick, '39, Drexel Hill, Pa., Aug. 17. 
Miss Margaret Elsie Longenecker and Joseph 
R. Gorman, '40, Washington, D. C Aug. 16. 

Miss Aveiina Roque and TySgrt. J»hn F. Rcback, '40, Manila. P. I., Aug. 3. 
Miss Maxinc Bowling and ICobert AV. B3yle, *4l, Syracuse. 111.. June 29. 
iliss Beverly Quinn and Edwurtl Mcllugh, 
•41, Paterson, X. J., in August. 

Miss Jeanne Wiedner and Georg-c A. Thomu. graduate student. '41-*42, Dubuque, la-. Aug. 
Miss Jeanne Helen Renneker and Edward J. Glaser, '42. Cincinnati, O., May 25. 
3Iiss Myra Smith ^lormon and William P. Eiljestnim, '43, Los Angeles, Calif.. Aug. 29. 
Miss Marj* Hennigan and John P. Hickey. 
•44, Jamaica Plain, Mass., Sept. 7. 
Miss Marj* Marcella Brown and Lt. (j.g.) Daniel F. Stevens USN'R, '44. Hastings, X. T„ Aug. 10. 

Miss Margaret A- "Webb and Robert M. Witucki, '44, Bismarck, X. D., Sept. 3. 
Miss Mary Lou Burkart and Paul A. Dehmer, Jr., ex. '45, South Bend. Ind., July 27. 
Miss Lorraine Overton and Lawrence J. Xouk, ex. '45, South Haven, Mich., Aug. 17. 
Miss Jeanette Schmenk and James F-Scliweickert, '45, Glandorf, O., on Sept. 7. ' 
iliss Shirley platt and Ens. Alfred Krome, 
•4G, Chicago, HI., Aug. 29. 

Miss Phyllis Kern Xoisom and Oscar Lupi­Deli^do, '46, South Bend, Ind., Aug. 29. 
Miss ^luriel Josephine Johnson and Ens. Don­ald E. Strand, USN'R. '46. South Bend. Ind., Sept. 7. 
^liss Renee Chrissis and Claire V. Hansen, ex. '47, Chicago, III.. Aug. 17, 
Miss Vera Maxine HofC and James B. 3fcKe«u^h, ex. '47. Soutli Bend. Ind.. Sept. 7. 
Births 

^Ir. and Mrs. Clarence E- Manlon. "22. an­nounce the birth of a son, July 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick McCusker, 'SO. an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Aug. 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jo»ieph H. RobinMm, '31, an­nounce the birth of ilarilyn. July 1. 
ilajor and Mrs. Forrest R. West, '31, an­nounce the birth of Mark Forrest. Sept. 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. Regis Kulin, '32. announce the birtli of James Hudson, Aug. 3. 
Mr. and :klrs. Edward F. 0*Mulle.v, '32. an­nounce the birth of John Edward. Sept. 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. John J. J. Staunton, '32, an­nounce the birth of Joanne Theresa on Sept. 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edn-ard Krause, '34, announce the birtli of u daughter. 
Lt. Comdr. and ilrs. Francis E. Schlueter, '35, announce the birth of Virginia Marj-. May 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. Williuni 3I*»ss, '35. announce the birth of \Yilliam Joseph on Sept. 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. R. W. Ookes, '35, announce the birth of Richard Edward, Aug. 26, 
Mr. and Mrs. Geonce F- Fitxpatrick, '3S, an­nounce the birth of Francis Ellis, July 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew F. Wilson, '39, an­nounce the birth of John William. July 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. Philip J. Maluney, '39. an­nounce the birth of Philip J., II. July 12. 
ilr. and Mrs. William Bums, '40, announce the birth of William George, Jr., Aug. 23. 
^Ir, and Mrs. GeorKe T. H«rn, '40. announce the birth of George Thomas. Jr., Aug. S. 
ilr. and Mrs. I<onis J. Reilly, '40, announce the birth of Michael Louis, Aug. 27. 

Mr. and Mrs. Myles J. Walsh, '40." announce thG birth of Myles J-, III, Aug. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jf>seph G. Callahan, '41, an­nounce the birth of Joanne. June 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. James O. lanr. '41, announce the birth of George Felix, ilay 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. Anjcust J. Dereume, *41. an­nounce the birth of Anita Furniss, July 29. 
Mr: and Mrs. Euj^ene Geis^ler, '41. announce the birth of a daughter, July 31. 
Dr. and Mrs. K. W. ilale, '42, announce tlie birth of Michael Lee. April IS. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph C. Spulir, Jr., '42, an­nounce tne birth of Joseph Conrad, HI, May 17. 
^Ir. and Mrs. Thomas Iltkyer, *42, announce the birth of a son. Aug. 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. Eui;ene S. Hutniaclier, '42, an­nounce the birth of Patricia Louise, July 2S. 
Mr. and Mrs. Vincent Slatt, '43. announce the birth of Jlarj- Kay. June 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. W-lliam H. Strj'cker, '43, an­nounce tne birth of a son, Sept. 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jefome Coleman, '44, announce the birth of William Patrick, July 20. 
Deaths 

Rev. Joseph J. Gnllugher, C.S.C., died Aug. 19 in St. Joseph's Hospital. South Bend. The tuneral mass was offered by his nephew. Rev. John D. Gallagher. C.S.C. professor at Xotre Dame. 
Father Gallagher was ordained in 1S9S and shortly thereafter became assistant superior of Holy Cross Scmniarj' at Notre Dame. In 1906 he became president of the University of Port­land, Ore., but returned to Xotre Dame in 1910 to become superior of the Community House. With the termination of his duties at the Community House Father Gallagher be­came chaplain at St. Mary's College, Xotre Dame, continuing there until his retirement almost 15 years ago. 
He is survived by a brother and five sisters, two of the sisters' being nuns. 
KeF- Gregory Geirer, O.S.B., LL.D., '19. died Aug. 24 at St. Anthony's Hospital in Shawnee, Okta., of pneumonia that followed a heart ailment. 
Father Gregorj* was an internationally known appraiser of art pieces and a distinguished painter-artist himself. Ordained in England in 1900, he continued his art study begun be­fore his profession in 1S93. His portrait of Pope Pius X gave the Benedictine priest inter­national fame and it hangs today in the Vatican library. Father Gregory was* active in the founding and organization of tlie Wight-man Art Gallery at Xotre Dame and for sevomi years he taught portraiture and outdoor sketch­ing at the University. To him is due much of the 'credit for tlie extent and reputation of Notre Dame's art collection. 
Father Gregorj- is survived by a sister and a brother. He was buried in the cemetery of was a member, following pontiHcal Mass in tlie Abbey chapel. St. Gregory's Abbey. Shawnee, of which he 

Rev. Leo P. Szybowicz, '03, pastor of St. Casimir's church in Lansing, Mich., died on July 23. 
Father Szybowicz was tlie son of PoIIsii immigrants who were probably the first such to settle in South Bend. He was assistant pastor at St. Casimir's in South Bend from 1911 to 1913, pastor of St. Mary's Church in Ashland, Ore., until 1916, and assistant pastor at St. Mary's Church in Lansing until he organized and becanie pastor of St. Casimir's tliere-
Surviving^ Father Szybowicz are two sisters and two half sisters, all of South Bend. 
Thomas Ashfunl, ex. *SG, of Homer, Ncbr., died on* Aug. 19 at his home after an illness of several montlis. 
For fifty years Mr. Ashford had been Dakota county, Nebraska, 'chairman of the democratic central committee. He was a member of the l)oard of directors of the Terminal Grain Corp. 
• of Sioux City, la., and a pioneer in Missouri 
river development work. Engaged in the 
general merchandise, farming and livestoclt 
operations, he had been in business in Homer 
for 59 years. 
Survivors, besides the widow, are two daughters. 
Charles A. Fuquette^ "90, of Cliicago, died on July 12 of a heart attack at his liome on Klinger Lake, White Pigeon, Mlch..^ 
Mr. Paquette was -formerly chief engineer of the Big Four Railroaa. after which" he served as president of M. E. White Co., of Chicago, a general contracting'firm. Later he formed and was president of tlie Paquette Engineering Corp.. which is still In existence in Clilcago. 
J. Fr«l Towers, ex. '01, died in St- Vincent's Hospital in Worcester. Mass., on Sept. S. He is survived hy his wife. 
Mr. Powers was the captain and leading point-scorer for the 1S9S and 1S99 track teams at Notre Dame and was popularly known as the "one man track team." In the two seasons he competed for Notre Dame he hung up twenty firsts, five seconds and a third in a wide variety of events. After leaving the University he competed for the New York 
A.A. and later coached at Holy Cross and Vanderbilt. 
John R. Kelly, ex. '03, former mayor of Muncle, Ind., and Muncie area director of the War Manpower Commission, died at his home in Muncle on Aug. 17. 
Mr. Kelly was for a time an instructor at Notre Dame, and was later associated in tlie operation of a drug store at Muncie. Since the war he had served as Indiana representa­tive of the Royal Manufacturing Co., of Duquesne, Iowa. 
Hp is survived by his widow, two" brothers, two nieces and a cousin. 
Stanley C. Cyzio, ex. '11. Chicago, died on July 20 after suffering a sunstroke on July 7. ilr. Cyzio was tlie president of the Cyzio Service Co.. started In 1914. This company was an insurance research laboratory, and Mr. Cyzio was the author of a book. "Your Insur­ance" whicli was published in 1935. 
AmbrtMe J. '*Slini*' Lij'nard, '24, prominent resident of Duluth, Minn., died on July 22 at the U. S. Veterans Hospital at Ft. Snclling. Minn. 
Associated with dalr>' farming and the seed business for many years in Owatonna, ilinn., he had later made his home in Duluth where he had served as an industrial engineer with the American Steel and Wire Co. Previous to this position, he was assistant secretary of the state senate in 1933 and for a time was super­visor of vocational training for the WPA in ^Ilnnesota. 
Slim is survived by his wife and Ave children. 
Dr. Kiclmrd J. Tivnen, LL.D.. '27, died Aug. 27 at Mercy Hospital in Ctilcago. 
Dr. Tlvnen had been a professor at Loyola University, Chicago, medical school for many years. He was the author of a number of text books, and was a former president of the Opthalmological society and of the Illinois State Eye, Ear. Nose and Throat Society. 
The ALUMNUS has only incomplete informa­tion on the death on July S of Emmett A. Doyle, ex. *29, of Neola. la., in Evanston, 111. 
Word lias only recently reached the Alumni Ofiice of tlic death of H. Patrick 3IcLaucfalin. '30, on Feb. 2G. 1945. in Clayton. Mo. 
Burl Boykin, *30. of Beaumont. Texas, died suddenly on Aug. 24 in New Orleans. La., while on a business trip to that city. 
Burl was the son of pioneer Benumonters, both his father and grandfather having been prominent Itusiness men there. At the time of his deatli he was tlie vice president of tlie Standard Brass and Mfg. Co. He was a mem­ber of the Lion's Club, the Knights of Columbus and the Beaumont Country club. He leaves his wife, two sont^, one daughter and three sisters. 
Hurley H. EnK^^troni, '44. of Alexandria, La., died in the hospital there on ilay 23 foUowrng an automobile accident which occurred May 12. 
Hurley was active In the civic and fraternal organizations of Alexandria, being a member of the Junior Chamber of Commerce and of the Knights of Columbus. He served in the war as an ensign in the Navy. 
Hurley is survived by Iiis parents, a sister, a brother and two grandmothers. 
Louis O. (Juno) Kinerk, '24, Grand Rapids. Mich., died suddenly from a heart attack in South Bend on Sept. 14. 
A native of South Bend. Juno was at one time sports editor of the former South Bend "News-Times," For many years he worked in Washington. D. C, but for' the past year was associated in Grand Rapids with the Vet­erans Administration. During much of the war he served as a lieutenant in tlie Navy. 
Surviving Juno are his three sisters, all of South Bend. 
Herman H. Wenzke, M.S. '22. Ph.D. '24. a professor of chemistrj* at Notre Dame from 1922 to 193S, died on Sept. 6. He was burled in Celina. O., on Sept. 9. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to John F.. 'OS. and Major John B. BertelinR, 
•38, on the death of their brother and uncle: to Gemid A., *22. £dwanl C, ex. '25, and Thomas K. Ashe, '31. on the death of their mother; to John S. Brennan, *24, on the death of his father; to Walter L. Shilts, '22, on the death of his mother and brother. John, ex. '26; to'l*rof. William F. Roemer, '27. on the death of his brother; to Kujeene G. Farrell, '28. on the death of his father; to Mrs. John J. Kelley and family on the death of Mr. Kelley. father of John J., III. '33. killed in action in World War II: to Donald, '41. CharleM, *43, and B«d, ex. '47. KnU*Te« on the death of their brother; to I.e«nard Bch , V-12. on the death of his brother: to Kalmt L. f fhaMW, *44. on the death of his father; to Kobert B, CaweroB, '45, on the death of hU father; to Albert Costeliis ex. *35. on the death of his wife. 
FEkSONALS 
19llfLild IK^^^^B^ ^ PROCTER, 'M. 
I 'VV" W I Moncer BaUdiiw, E.khart, Ind. 
Albert I* Krmg, '02, is the auditor for the Kern Oil with offices.In Los Angeles. 
Frank P. Lvaercan, *04, prominent Portland. Ore., attorney and ex-legislator, was appointed by Governor Snell to be Multnomah County circuit Judge. 
IQ1 9 ^ '- KAISER, 324 Coarth St., Pitts­' ' ' " barsh. Pa. 
Jay If Ijee is the Detroit manager for the Phoenix Mutual Life nsurance Company of Hartford. Conn., and announces that this com­pany has been approved for on-the-job train­ing for veterans. 
«0« ^ PAVL R. BYRNE, Universltr I<ibmry, I ' I ^ >'otrr nmme; Ind. 
Brother Pual O'BrieD, S.M., of Springfield, Ohio, who was a student at the University from 1909 to 1912, was a campus visitor, for the first time since he left Notre Dame, in August. Brother Paul will be teaching during the next school year in Cincinnati. 
1915 Jx%3f£S £ . SANfflORD, 3336 X. Lake­wood Ave., Chicago, III. 
Capt. William J. Shea was. in late June, still with the Army in the western Pacific at APO 707, c/o PM, San Francisco. His home is in Evanston. ill., suburb of Chicago. 
101A ^^^^'^^ ^r XILLER, 610 Wisconsin 
• ' ' O Are., Raeine, Wis. 
From Gruver Miller: 
The Class of 1916 had a real swell reunion June 28, 29, 30. Those present included Father Hush O'Donncll, IMher. Vincent Mooney, Vat Maloney. Dr. Ed Kyan, I^onie Keifer. Tim Galvin. Jadg:e Ruswll Hardy, Al Schlipf, Tom Hayes, and Graver Miller. While some came in on Friday, things really got moving on Saturday afternoon. The golf banquet, ball game. Glee Club Concert and Commencement were more than any of us expected. 
There were several inspection trips to old haunts, and a few of the boys tried an over night skive Just to see if they were still in prime. 
The old guard is now laying plans for a 35th reunion. 
P-S. Bill Cook from Los Angeles sent us $50. to spend on our celebration. Believe it or not, our supplies held out and we were able to return Bill's check. 
Mai Elward, former head coach at Purdue University, has been appointed assistant to Coach Marrhy Schwartz at Stanford University. 
1918 aOHN A. IXafBOBR, 9tl l^ake Shore Drive, Escaaaba, Mkh. 
Ixonard Blayer is the commercial manager for the New Tork Power and Light -Company in Troy, X. Y., and lives across the river in Albany. 
 W. DUFFX, 16M Tenuiaal 

1921 DAN 
Tower, Cleveland, Ohio. 

Jake Kliae, varsity baseball coach, has re-Joined the faculty at Notre Dame, after a sum­mer at Bennington, Vt., where his local team •won the championship of the Northern base­ball league. Jadk Mayo and Tom Sheehan, Xotre Bame stars of last season, were big guns in the team's hitting attack. 
1090 GKBAIAt ASHE, 39 Cambritle^e St., I wiC^ Rochester 7. N. ¥ . 
From Kid As:he: 
Buck Sltan't who has been missing from foot­ball since Santa Clara University suspended it during the w-ar. Is hard at it again, this time in professional football as head coach of the San Francisco *49ers All-America League. We wish Buck much success in his new venture. 
Cleveland is doing all right in the matter of sending a second generation of '22ers to Xotrc Dame, rierre "Pete" Champion has a son there, and so has GeorBc Ker^er. 
Kenn Nyhan, of Toledo, was reported vaca­tioning in Colorado last summer. 
Charic« "Red" Crowley, former major in tlie Army Air Corps, Notre Dame tackle in football In 191S and 1919. is now sales mana­ger of Geo. D. Emerson Co. wholesale grocers, Somerville, Mass. 
Dr. Dan Sexton of St- Louis reports having a nice visit with Father Bob Sheclmn. C.S.C., in St. Louis a short time ago. Father Bob is on the faculty at Notre Dame. 
31alach^- Cophlaii, Chicago attorney since 1921, was one of three defense attorneys in the William Helrens trial. The • defense law­yers are credited with saving Heirens* life because he promised cooperation with authori­ties in return for a life sentence. 
f A^ e JOHN P. HURLEY. 2085 Brookdale ITZ 9 Rd., Toledo, O. 
St. Vincent's Hospital of New York will re­ceive about 973,000 under the will of Clmrles Butterworth, film comedian who was killed In an automobile accident on June 13. 
GeoTxe VerRara, a prominent Eastern foot­ball official, has been signed by the All-Amer­ica Football conference to work the new league's games this fall. 
Joe Harmon is a special agent of the Frank­lin Life Insurance Co. in Indianapolis. 
Unable to find a home in the east. Bill Cemey has quit his job for Huntington Laboratories, Inc., and has returned to South Bend. 
John Courtney is a sales engineer with Elec* tro Refractories and Alloys Corp. of Buffalo, 
N. Y,, and is working in Dearborn, Jklich. 
I p9i L VICTOR F. TiKMBIKR, Box 661, Iron­
* '• O wood, Mich. 
f^he r Joe Toomey, Syracuse, N. Y., was named one of five vice-presidents for the Na­tional Conference of Catholic Charities at a four-day convention of the conference at SI. Marj-*s College, Notre Dame, in late July. 
m 09 7 JOSEPH M. BOLAND, Radio Station I 'A / WSBT, South Bend, Ind. 
Herb Jones has been reappointed business manager of athletics at Notre Dame following the resignation of John P. Donnelly, '39, Bob Cahill, *32, continues as assistant business man. ager. 
Jim Jones is the news editor for **Food In­dustries" in New York City, and lives in L^TI­brook on Long island. 
Joe Bc^and, for the last two seasons business manager of the South Bend Blue Sox, girls' Softball team, has resigned that position to devote his full time to radio work at "WSBT, the Soutii Bend "Tribune" station. 
Fwatik Conwsy- is in the real estate business 
- in Denver. Frank's terminal leave expires in mid-October; he left the Army with captain's bars. 
From Joe Boland: 
Steve Blelli, ex. '27, visited in South Bend and at Notre Dame in the latter part of August. He's now operating the Biellt Sales Company—manufacturer's agents for food products in Plioenix. Ariz., and doing quite well, thank you. Steve informs us that Elmer WsTine is now associated with the Safeway Stores Company. Salt Lake City, Utah, doing personnel work. 
A'ince 3IcXally—the heretofore indomitable bachelor—finally had his defenses levelled and succumbed to matrimony in the spring. Miss Celeste Jloloney, of Philadelphia is now Jfrs. Vincent McNally. . . . Her husband is labor­ing for tiie San Francisco '49ers. pro football club in the All-America Conference, which Is coached by Buck Shan*, another old Notre Darner. 
Jack La-veilc—tlie "Round :klan" of New York City C.Y.O. fame—was another recent campus visitor. He scouts for the New York Giants. In the National Football League; and for Notre Dame, in tlie academic circuit. Jack dropped in for business-conferences with head­man Frank Leahy of the Irish, after a week spent with his Giant bosses at their early-season-training-camp in Superior, Wis. Lavelle is running the risk of being investigated by the anti-trust division of the government:, he's becoming that large a corporation lately! But tlien—who am I to talk? 
1 09 0 I^VIS ^- BUCKLEY, Social Security I # A O Board, oil Union Guardian Bldg^., Cleveland 14, O. 
Lt. Col. Leo Schulthcis has one of those five-number ollices in the Pentagon and is living in Wasliington. 
Al tiurj*, is now president of the nUnoIs Valley Awning and Tent Co. of Peoria, but re­mains associated with his family in the opera­tion of a movie theater. 
Bill Duffy is the regional representative of the National Highway Users Conference, with both home and ofilce in Bridgeport, Conn. 
Ed Brennan is a credit man with the Bur­lington Mills Corp. in New York City and is living in tlie Bronx, 
Howie Phalin Is again sales manager of the Quarry Corp. in Chicago after long na^T service and is living in Wiimette. III. Georxe Cron­sreyer Is with the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. in New York. 
.•\rt Parisien, of Upland, Calif., was on the campus In July. 
Dr. Terence Donahue, formerly assistant superintendent of schools in Springfield, Mass. Is now superintendent of schools of School District 1, Eastchester. N. Y. 
Pete Mcrioni, of Framingham, Mass., reports that he has been out of the Navy for several months, but that he has spent most of the time in hospitals getting patched up. 
Tom Hart, after spending four years in the Army, is resident manager of the northwestern department of the Employers' Group. In Min­neapolis. 
Geurgre Strick'.er, ex. '28, formerly sports writer on the South Bend "Tribune," has held the post of publicity director for the National Football league for the past five years. 
Chet Grant, '19, who managed the South Bend Blue Sox (girl's softball) to their most successful season, will assist Joe Benda, head football coach at St. John's University, College-ville, Minn., during the current football season. 
1929 1314 X. Omrt House Rd., Arlington, Va. 
Cluurles Schntty, a sales engineer for AUis-Chalmers, is working out of the Kansas City branch and living in Liberty, Mo. 
Kay Drynialsld is still the city treasurer of Chicago. Willavd Crotty resigned in February from the Detroit Gasket & Mfg. Co. to form The Notre Dame Alumnus 
his own company, the Automotive Products Co. of Jonesville. Mich. 
Art Darf>in, having been associated since graduation with the General Electric Co., has been appointed district manager of the Central Sales District for the company's Air Con­ditioning Department. Art will be located in Kansas City, Mo. in his new position* 
lyed Milter, football captain and star, left tackle of the 1928 team, flying from Milwaukee to South Bend in his own plane, became lost in a rainstorm and made a crasli landing In a plowed field west of Laporte early in Sep­tember. It was the initial registration day at Notre Dame and Fred was flying Terr^­Brennan, Notre Dame halfliack and Frank Kdsikowski, end candidate, back to the Uni­versity when the mishap occurred. Ko one was injured in the crash. 
Ed Mansfield is out of ser\-ice after four years and is with Crown Zelterbacii Corp., In Chicago. Ed spent a year in the Air Forces, a year in the Signal Corps, and two years with the combat engineers in the ETO with the First and Tliird Armies. He claims his captain's bars make fine Jabs to stick into people who have no apartments for him. 
1930 HAROIJ) E. DVKE, 4030 N. Unaa St., Pbiladelpbia, Fa. 
Jim Xat'Orre was dischnged from the Army on Aug. 6 and has accepted a position with the Office of Veterans' AfCairs at Xiansing-. Mich., He has liis office at his liome in Monroe, Mich., and travels six counties in expediting on-the-job training for veterans. 
Uowanl Webster is living In Long Beach. Calif., and has an administrative position in building management in Los Angeles. 
Walt BoswUt is back in Xew Bremen, O.. a pharmacist in a retail drug store, after being discharged by the Navy. By some quirk of fate. Waft was a PhJI 1/c in the' Navj-. 
Howie Smitli was named assistant football coach at Holy Cross College in "Worcester, Mass. Howie had been a three-sport coach at Mt. St. Michael Academy, Bronx, N. Y. 
Cbariie Pealc after what he terms as "four years of wonderings in Uncle Sam's Na\-y," has settled down in El Cerrlto, Calif., aJid is looking forward to his projected trip to South Bend in November for the Southern Cal game. 
Steve Sherry has returned to East Orange, N*. J., after a long stay overseas. Gus Bondi is the new manager of the Cincinnati office of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., having been transferred to that city from Indianapolis. 
Diclc DonochDe was separated from the Navy as a lieutenant commander on July 1 and Is again with O.P.A. in the Steel mil Products Division. 
Pete Waives is assistant director ot plant protection for United Aircraft in East Hart­ford, Conn. Pete was at Notre Dame on Sept. 23, his first visit to the campus since I93S. 
1931 Walter F. FhiUn^, 40l» Redder Road, Drczel HiU, Fa. 
From Walt Philipp: 
Jack Saunders forwarded a letter from Father FatridE who has a mission in Bengal. India. Father Patrick informs us that Father I-Boaer is also located near his section. Inas­much as they couldn't be with us at our fifteenth reunion, they're hoping they will be with us at our twentieth, reunion. Father Patrick closed his letter with the following, "When you gather at a Reunion Mass, don't forget us and our people both the Christians and the Pagans." I'm sure that everyone who reads this article will remember our mission­ary classmates in our prayers in the future. 

Jim McQaaid writes: "It was such a pleasure to Bee the *31ers who returned tor reunion. 
Jerry Ball has been over several times and wo have had a more or less 'Post Mortem' on the whole affair." if any of us should be traveHing throus'h Vincennes, Infliana, don't forget to look up Jim at the "Little Big Shop" at Sixth and Busseron streets. 
Ben Oakes, of TWA, Kansas City. Mo., writes., "I thought that our reunion was a 'Howling' success In every way. and wish to offer you, at this time, my assistance in carry­ing out your program." Thanic you Ben, you will hoar from me a little later. 
I'd like to hear from more fellows. 
V 09 ^ JAMES K. COLLINS, 3031 W. 3rtl i 7^A St., Daj-ton, Ohio. 
From Jim Collins, out ot the Navy and back In Dayton: 
Charley Xash has been released from the AAF Medical Corps and has resumed practice in Valparaiso, Ind. He was a major in the Bomber Command. 
Jack Scanlon is back with the telephone company in Indianapolis after being released from the Army. He was a maior in the Signal Corps. 
Charles Qaigrle}- is still flouriishng in the drug business in Richmond, and said that Nick Kalmas is resigning from the FBI shortly. His future plans were still indefinite the last Charley heard. 
' March>' Schwurtx is starting his first full season as head coach at Stanford University. We wish him the best of luck for a fine 
scasoa. 
I visited TeU Halpin and he said he had seen Ray P/elffer recently while the latter was on a trip for his company, the Commins Col­lins Distillery. 
Mike Crawford has resumed his medical practice in Cleveland after being released from the Army, illke ^vas a major, and spent over two years in England as his last duty station. 
Bob Cahill reports that A! McEachern is still in Chicago, and is doing fine. 
Fred Ileneghan Is the personal director for the Rlieem ^Its. Co., In Chicago. Eil KoI.«ki an Illinois state inspector. Is also in Chicago, and the owner of a professional baseball team. 
Lt. Comdr. Bob te c is (was) the Security Ofltcer for tlie Naval Supply Center at Pearl Harbor. Art Rankin was in July enroute to the states as a member of the American Bed Cross. I*t. Joe Eninir is working In the 29th Infantry Division Historical Section, c/o the "Infantry Journal," Washington. D.C. 
109 9 TIGHE M'OODS, 8016 Clyde Ave. Chicago, III. 
From Manila, In a letter which accompanied a generous contribution to the Fourth Annual Fund. Eduanio Roxas writes of meeting Bishop O'Haru- In Manila as the latter was on his way back to tiie States from Japan. He reports that he was successful in. getting about 12 alumni together for a lunclicon on the occa­sion. Ed's address is 6th Floor. Soriano Bldg-. Manila. 
Georsre Goepfrich Is chief. engineer for • the Allied Control Valve Company of South Xor­w^alk. Conn. Jim Wiule Is an associate pro­fessor of English at the University of San Franci^o. 
John Kiety, after 55 months with the Army Air Forces and the Signal Corps, was released to inactive duty and Is now the personnel director for tlie Hecht Co. in New York City. 
Ted Nolan, an instructor in the Iron Bolt schools for eight years, was appointed super­intendent of schools in Iron county. Wis. 
IQ^ ^ JOSEPH R. OLENNON, Jr., Com­' '^ t mercial Solvents Corp., 17 E. 4*nd St.» New York City, 17­
Ed Sport, Jr., late of New Orleans, now Is the manager of United Fruit Co. at Pier One, Pratt St.. Baltimore. Md. Bill IVaLsh. Jr., Is a metallurgist with the Bethlehem Steel Co., in Bethlehem. Pa. 
A letter from San Juan, P.R., over the signa­ture of Paul McManus brings a tidy bit of news about people on what Paul calls the "isle of more or less enchantment." Bob Forbes. '35, is In the insurance business there and tt . Comdr. Bob Beundine, '40, is in Opera­tions, NAS, San Juan with the collateral duty of running the Ofllcers' Club. Ed :tlaher, '37, was a lieutenant in Supply at NAS until he returned to the States to be discharged. "Doc" Forterficld was stationed there for several months as a member of the U. S. Public Health Ser\ice, but has been transferred to Columbus. O, Paul, himself, in the Navy be­tween August, 1942 and April. 194S, is now associated with an importing company, the B & i l Products Co., Box 2695, San Juan. 
I*e Kramer is the Des Moines. la., branfch manager for Dun & Bradstreet. John Voss Is back in Elkhorn. Wis., and practicing law after four years in the AAF. 
John Mclaughlin's law oifices are at 2 Wall St.. N. Y, C. Ben Pollard is a patent attorney with United Shoe Machinery. Boston. 
Wait Kenneily, who is vice-president of Scho­lastic Sports Institute, N. Y. C, Is also (1) public relations director of the new profession­al Basketball Association of America. (2) con­ducting a 15-minute program each week over the Connecticut State network. (3) associated with Ted Husing in all of Ted's sports broad­casts (in early November, he and Ted will start broHdcastlng the "College Game of the Week" over the Mutual Network) and (4) writing a weekly sports column and a monthly sports article for two publications which limit their circulation to Connecticut. Otherwise. the poor lad leads a free and easy life. 
1935 FR^INKLYN C. IIOCIIKEITEK, 1327 PentwtKHl Rood, Baltimore IS, Md, 
From Ilticli: 
It has been a long time since your "scribe" sent In any material. As a matter of fact We liave received cards occasionally from the gang, but with our own moving around the country the lile we have been keeping on *35 material got lost. As a result, we have likely lost a few friends. From now on out. 
- however, we promise to be more faithful in our reproiluctlon of class news, as it comes to us. 
Two recent pieces of correspondence have followed us around the country and finally caught up with us here in Baltimore. The first was an invitation to the ordination of Jerry U:>yle to the priesthood on June 17th. .Terry was ordained by the Apostolic Delegate in the campus church and has joined the ranks of the Congregation of Holy Cross. We all congratulate him upon his vocation and wish him well In his future years in the priesthood. 
The second bit of news comes from Johnny Novak in Lackawanna. N. Y. John writes: "Tliought I'd drop you a line and let you know what's going on. I got out of the Navy In November '-lo as a senJor gn»de lieutenant. I had 32 months overseas and am back at my old job of teaching Phys. Ed., and coaching at Lackawanna High. My brother Frank and I also have opened up a sporting-goods store here in Lackawanna." John's address is 638 Ridge Road. Lackawanna, N. Y. It was good hearing from you John—lots of luck on the business venture! 
Last April we had a long letter from Charlie .Morris, formerly of Cortland. N. Y. Charlie has been in the moving business since gradu­ation, first in the family firm, and then later in New England. He was just making a move' from the van to the air freight field and was contemplating-a trip with the air freight firm's president to New Orleans to negotiate a southern terminal for the line. They arrived within a 'couple of weeks and Charlie and your correspondent were able to spend several evenings together, one particu­larly Interesting one when we "showed" him the town. It- was the first real opportunity your "scribe** had had for reminiscing In a loner time, as we have not run across a '35er in years. 
Perhaps a word about oarself would be in order. We left the Federal Security Agency the first of the year, after closing: the New-Orleans office of the Social Protection Division. The next two months found us in San Antonio where we managed SL venereal disease edu­cational campaign for the City Health De­partment. The campaign included a mass blood testing drive in which 50,000 volunteer tests were taken. An interesting sidelight of this project was the all-out cooperation of the Catholic Church and the Archbishop of San Antonio. It was the first time that the Church has actively participated in such a campaign and San Antonio made a real name for it­self. 
Later in spring we went to Galveston to make an extensive survey of medical social work for the University of Texas. Medical Branch. That brought us up to the end of May when the Hochrelters closed up the house and decided to go north for their first vacation in five years. 
Being able to "park" the children and do a little travelling was a real boon. In our travels we looked Into this Baltimore propo­sition In July and decided It might be well to take up residence In the north again. (After 8 years In the deep south, Baltimore is north to us.) 
I left the family in Buffalo while I reported on duty at the Baltimore Council of Social Agencies, where t am Secretary of the Division of Medical Care Agencies and Supervisor of Research. A period of living at the T.M.C.A. only made the demand for a house more urgent, so early in August we bought a home In Northwood. The address appears at the head of the column, and the phone number is Hopkins 2509. How about a call and^ a visit from '35ers when they are in Baltimore? 
One of the weekends we were scouting around alone we drove to Washington to look up some friends in Parkfalrfax. Arlington, Va. As we were watching house numbers BUI Coyne and family came along the street. It was the first time we had seen Bill in years. He has been an attorney with the federal government (in several branches) for the past few years, having left the Notre Dame faculty post. Now Bill is with the Counsel General of the Federal Security Agency. All of the debaters and speech men will be intereirted In this news. 
That's about all the news for this trip to press! Now that we are "back on the beam" as your secretary, please let us have your news. With the return of 'SSers from the armed forces, a lot more dope ought to be coming through. Let us have a word on a penny post card so we VMin bring the '35 column back to Its old place in the sun. 
Loo Yaeger Is the cashier of the South Wheeling (W. Va.) Bank and Trust Co. Faiil Itavmby, whose last assignment In the Navy was aboard the U.S.S. Wake Island, is again a practicing attorney in St. Louis. 
Slalcolin Staon is in the cotton business in Memphis. Tenn.. and according to his brother, Dave, '29, Is Intending to get down to the Tulane game. 
M.4NSS1Eri>, >'alionj|] 1936 Broadcasting Co., 3« RockcfHI«r Ffaua, Radio Citr, New York, X. T. 
John Coyne moved from California to Denver, where he has set up and will head a depart­ment of business administration at Regis Col­lege, 
Jolm CTiiliw. of South Bend. Is president and treasurer of Plajrtime Products, Inc., a toy manufacturing concern at Warsaw, Ind. 
Jim Nolen is back in Philadelphia after being placed on the inactive list by the Navy. BUI GoCtsacki^ Is in the Gottsacker Insurance agen­cy in Sheboygan, Wis. 
The Notre Dame Allumnus 
•Volui DeGwmo Is a training officer in the Veterans' Administration in Pittsburgh. 
Frank Mnrpb^* is the manager of the Nation­al Realty Corp. in Baltimore. Bill Stapleton was a social case worker at the Catholic Youth Guidance Center in Boston. 
Tom Adamson is the assistant director of public relations for the Bowman Dairy Co. in Chicago. Tom Rcfftrdon is the general mana­ger of the Dakota Iron Store in Sioux Falls. S, D. 
»an k Mnrph}' is the manager of the Nation­al Realty Corp. in Baltimore, Md. 
10^ ^ FRANK J. KEIIXY, BlacNalr-Dor­
• '^ ' Iwid Co, 254 W. Slat St., New York City. 
Tony Scrjre has a new coaching and physical education job in Norfolk. Va. John E. Kelly. Lexington, Mass., assistant athletic coach and lilstorj' instructor at Admiral Farragut Acad­emy. St. Petersburg, Fla. 
Hal Dmrcker Is associated with the Indiana Products Co. for the War Assets Administra­tion in Kokomo. Ind. Glenn Kiehtirdson is the manager of the office of the U. S. Employment Scri-ice in Anderson, Ind. George tVils<»ii is the assistant clearance superintendent—traffic for Pan American AVorld Airways, with otficos in Flushing and residence in Brooklyn. N. T. 
From Frank Rcilly: 
Not always, but In August, the "Postman—• (rang) twice." And on each occasion he brought a letter from a member of our class. The first missive, written on the letterhead of the U. S. Navy, Special Devices Center, Office of Naval Research. Sands Point. Port ^\'ashington. Long Island, N. T.. was from "Boots" McCarthy, of course . He corrects an inadvertence we made in the August issue b.v referring to him as a lieutenant commander. "Boots" is a lieutenant he states and is now stationed at Sands Point, not Lido Beach-
The second letter is a long overdue, informa­tion-packed message from tny old roommate. Jack Iloriey. Jack's letter carries a General Electric trade mark and what I believe is his home address: G3 Western Parkway, Schenec­tady. Jack is connected witli the G.E. adver­tising department and when he was in New Tork several weeks ago phoned and promised me this letter. Jack had earlier received one from Al Bride, which he was also going to forward, but being unable to find it supplies the following facts as to Al and his wliere­abouts: "Al. as you know, was married laie in 1944. a short time before he went overseas with the S9th Glider Tnfantr>'. According to Al (and he may- be just modest), the outfit never saw much action, the war in Europe being over ere they needed Bride. So. soon the unit was packed on board some transports and shipped back to this country—a whistle stop on the road to Japan. Of course, he never made the long trip, and after V-J day he languished in a soutlicrn camp for a while before he was finally discharged. 
"In June, his wife presented him with a chip oft the old 'Brady* even to the name. Al and his family are now living in Spring­field. Mass., and he is checking the credit of all who want to charge it at Bond's Hartford store. I haven't seen Bride since the fall of 1940 when he was credit manager for Bond in Syracuse. His name came up In the draft within the first month of its existence, and he went into feer\'ice early in 1941. So. he had some five years of military sen-ice. 
"Though there are some thlrtj'-five or forty Notre Dame men working for G.E. around the countrj'. I see few of them here. During the winter I bumped into Lany Weiss three or four times but I haven't seen him since. He is working for the General Electric Credit Corp. here in Schenectady, and we were going to get together. But, he was busj' looking for a place to live and we never made it. 
"A short time ago, we brought in a group of our Supply Corporation salesmen for a re­fresher course and who showed up but Bob Duccy. Bob is a power apparatus specialist with the G. E. Supply Corp. in Indianapolis. I thought I was going to have a week-end to Inish over nine years of news with him as I was one of a group from our general office who was entertaining the above mentioned salesmen. But. my plans were abruptly changed by our advertising manager when he drafted me to assist him with an air show which the company was sponsoring the same week-end. 
"I Iiave also established Indirect contact with Dick Itiley. A friend of mine was trans­ferred to Cleveland, and he was traveling around Ohio. I suggested he look up Riley, and sure enough, he found Dick still putting the "Vindicator" to bed down in Youngstown. In fact, Riley asked said friend to come out to dinner. Because of other commitments a rain check was issued. If the rain check is ever used. I might have more information on children, wife and other household conditions of that chunk of manhood from the mountains." 
The September meeting of the New York alumni club brought out more of our mates from 1937 than any meeting I've ever at­tended. In addition to both McNally brothers. J€»e and Bill, I saiv and talked to the follow­ing: Herb Ken>'on, Tom HUJCIICN, Hurrj- Pierce, "B:K>ts*' McCarthy, Ed lloyt. Dun Hanninjr, U'ill Kirk, John Wallach, £d Neaher, Jeny Gillespie, Bill Shakespeare, John CaTanaash, Ken Moriarity, Jack Broderick, Jack Wnlsh Jerrj- Schaefer and Hal Heineman. 
Hill Heineman works In the enginopring de­partment of the Sperry Gyroscope plant at Lake Success, Long Island, and lives with his wife and two children at New Hyde Park. 
L. I., N- Y. Hal has a little girl four years old and a two-montlis-old baby boy. 
Don Honning Is leaving soon for Lima, Peru, where he will resume his plantation work for \V. R. Grace & Co. As you know, Don was similarly employed in the Philippines before the war. 
Herb Kenyon, is living at 72 First Street in Yonkers, N. Y. After three and a half years with the U. S. Army Air Corps where he ser\'ed in the C.B.I, theatre. Herb is now connected with Associated Hospital Service Plan. Herb Is married. 
Another *37 man working for W. R. Grace in New York, is Jerry Schaefer, who, I recall is a Detroitor originally. Jerrj- Is living at Bellaire, L. I.. N. Y. He mentioned having seen Clark Reynolds, "SS, recently. Clark is with Union Bag & Paper Corp. iiere in New York. 
Ed Xitiher, who was appointed chairman of the Retreat Committee at the N. Y.-N. D. club meeting. Is a successful attorney with Chad­boume, Wallace, Parke and ^\*hiteside. New York law firm at 25 Broadway. Ed lives in Jackson Heights, Is ver>' much married, having two daughters, aged five and tliree years old. 
Jolm Ca^nnaugh, one of tlic "Kids from Brooklyn" after a three year Army hitch Is back in civies and credit. This time he's with Sharp tt Dohme, New York manufacturing chemists. Before he went into the Army, John was with Frederick Loeser & Co., Brook­lyn department store. John is married and has a youngster. Of course, he still lives in Brooklyn. He and the Army parted company last December. 
John Wallacli, another Brookl>'n dweller, also married and witli one child, a five-year­old son. is back with Chilean Nitrate Sales Corp.. after three years in the Navy. 
Joe and Bill McNalls', now representing De Groodt & Associates, Inc., direct mail service firm here In New York, were on hand lor the meeting. 
Bill Shakespeare of Ohio State vs. Notre Dame, 1935 fame, took a bow at the meeting. Bill had a very active career In the war, although I don't recall what he told me he is doing at present. 
On the way out of the meeting I bumped into Ken Moriarity, who is with Norton Lilly & Co. steamship agents. Cy Stroker's old alma mater, and Jade Walsh, and Jack Broderick. Jack Broderick is doing merchandising work with the R. H. 'White department store in Boston. 
Couple of 36*ers at the meeting were J€>e SliuwBeld of NBC and Andy Hofnacel, I think, of the Hotel New Yorker. Gene Vaslett, Brookl>*n. the class of 1938 and "Scholastic" fame, was present for tlie gathering of the clan. It was the first time I've seen Gene since about 1938 or *39. Another '3S grad, Ed Haniur of Dallas, was in New York recent­ly with his father. I mot Ed In a restaurant where 1 was having lunch and he was sitting at the next table. Wlien he rose to leave I gave him the high sign and we chattej for a couple of minutes. The day we met was the day of the meeting, Sept. 11. It was funny running into Ed. because our luncheon table talk prior to meeting ivith him was centered mainly on coincidence. . . . 
Joe Schilling is out of the Navy and is back living in East Orange. N. J. Joe is In busi­ness for himself as a manufacturer's repre­sentative or jobber, I understand. 
Watch for a book on apologetics autliored by \1nce Hartnett to appear shortly. I think Macmitlan Co.. New York, will publish it. Vince is said to have a couple of other things that he is working on and should be ready for publication in the near future. 
Had lunch with \'ince McAloon, field* secre­tarj- of the Third Order of St. Francis, recent­ly. Many of you will probably remember Vince, although he was graduated a couple of years ahead of us. He's come through the wars safely and is now traveling the country promoting the work of the Tliird Order and Catholic Action. 
Don UenncsKy is coaching at St. Mar>''s Higli School in Sterling, 111. 
Since this is the last issue before the Army game, how about dro]>ping me a line and letting me have your reaction to a sort of 
•37 get together in New York the night of the game. The night before will be tlie Rally, of course, and while many of you will be on hand, parties will probably be arranged on a broader-than-class basis. So, If you think a class gathering of *37ites and their wives (if any) should be armnged, let me know. 
lO^f t HAROLD A. WUXIABIS, 43S3 Mar-I ' ^ O ble HiOl Rd., Baltimore^ Hd. 
Prom Hal ^mUams: 
First a report on the reunion at Notre D.ame in June from reliable Charlie Callahan, assist­ant director of publicity at Notre Dame. Charlie ivrite.s. "Saw Bert Bauer, Charlie Duke (boss of the South Bend airport). Johnny Plonff (assist­ant business manager of the University), Dr. John Tobin (just out of ser\'ice and expecting to do some more studying before practising], Carlcton Macdoopild (he's i n business In Providence; he flew in Sunday), and Harvey Foster (FBI, Indianapolis). John Tulis, Chuck Svceney and Brother Rei^nald were the only others registered from our 'class, but I did not see them. 
"Among others who have dropped in at the campus or who I've bumped into in South Bend are Jim Stanion (out in Hollywood). Ja}' Dntmers (a sales manager who travels in this district). FanI Leahy (he has five children) and Jack Anton who stopped off In town this spring to examine one of the banks. J also see Doa Hidwy, Jack Moulder and John Donnelly often. "Hick" is still running Don's Fiesta, a popular spot In town; Moulder has an auto­mobile agency In the Bend. 
"I was married on June 15th in tlie Log Chapel to Betty Bishop of Colorado Springs, by Father Charles Carey (Pat Carey's brother). You may recall that I was stationed in Colorado Springs a long time during the late unpleasant­ness. Went to tjie Louis-Conn fight on our honej^moon which was hardly anything to talk about." tNote: We hope that Charlie was guilty of using an ambiguous modifier in that last sentence.] 

n 

A few days later Charlie sent this postscript flying through the malls. "Also add the name of Larr>- "Backy" O'Connor to those mentioned in my letter. Heard from him recently. He went through things over there In the Euro­pean Theater for several years and then suf­fered a heart attack when the ship pulled into New York harbor. He's -not completely well yet. He «an be reached at -1563 Saturn Street, Los Angeles. Oh yes, I also had a letter from Vince DuKKttn, now in Los Angeles." 
Thanks, Charlie, for another swell job. Char­ie neglected to furnish his home address, but 1 picked it off the wedding announcement. It's 1009 Logan St.. South Bend. If any of you boys are In the Bend be sure to drop in and have a few drinks and dinner with 3Ir. and Mrs. Cliarles Martin Callahan. 
And now a fine letter from I*en Tobin who confesses In the first paragraph of his note that it is his first letter to the column. XOH* that we have properly shamed Len we will quote the body of his report. "I spent two years in the Navy, most of it In welfare and recreation at Shoemaker Hospital in California. \Vhile there T bumped into many Xotre Darners, among them "Chuck" Kiflle^ Ste%-e Juzwick. Joe Kuharich, and "Bucky** O'Connor who was a Navy physician. 
"One of my pleasant memories of the West Coast was a visit to ••Bunny" McCormlck'n folks in Livermore, Calif., along with "JuUgs" Cftrberrj- and Frank Lrahy. "Bunny" has a swell .family. And what a meal we had. 
"I am now working at Suncook Mills, a division of Textron. My title is superintendent of \veaving. My home address Is 10 Webster St., Suncook, N. H. 
"I would consider this letter well worth while If I could locate the wliereabouts of Clnrk Rrynolils and Johnny Murphy." 
Reynolds and Murphy step forward and com­municate with your ol^ friend Len, a swell fellow. 
Now a pleasant announcement, tied with a blue ribbon, from Mr, and Mrs. John K. Schrmmrr, announcing the birth of John An­thony. Congratulations, John. We hope that he STOWS up to be a valedictorian like his old man was. John's address is 13 West 29th Street. New York, 24, N. Y. Incidentally, how about a letter, John? 
"Bud" Shemrood, after tending: bar for the Navy on Okinawa, returned to the States on April 23 and was discharged on May 3, wltli the rank of ensign. Or was it lieutenant ? "Bud" is now back with Chevrolet In Flint. His home address Is 225 West 12th Street, Flint 3, Mich. "Bud" reported that Bill "Re«l" Ri»binson has left the FBI and Is now a sales­man for a soap company. He hopes to settle In Flint. 
Georjre Morris* another Michigan boy who made good, was In Baltimore on August 19 and We had a pleasant chat over the telephone. He is with the Industrial relations department • of General Motors and spends most of his time traveling. We scribbled a few notes on the wallpaper while we talked to him and here they are: George Is married and recently bought a home; In Detroit, if I am reading my writing correctly. During the w^r Gen­eral Motors lent George to one of the Govern­ment bureaus, the War ^fanpowep Commission. I believe it was. George says that Tom Kavanajch has three children. BIck Foley three, and that 0'r*ar>- is working in the account section of General Motors. O'Loary also has three. The Detroit crowd certainly goes In for production. 
Jack Zcrfost left the States with wife and baby for Sao Paulo, Brazil, where he will represent Union Carbide and Carbon Corp. for the next three or four years. Jack told us that on one of his last visits to New York he saw a number of the boys: Clark ReynoliLs who after some Navy service is now back with the Union Bag Co. Clark has three children and recently bought a house In Chatham. N. 
Y.. . . FHink Bright is practicing law In or out of Franklin, N. J. Frank has a three year old child. . . . Charlie Colgfan a lawyer. Is 
Lt. Greg Kelly, '38, was lost in a B-29 mission over Nagoya, Japan. He is survived by his wile ond two dough­ters, residing in Chicago. 
now specializing In anti-trust cases. . . . Jack Solon is still a big shot on the West Coast. Jack was in New York on a business trip. 
While in Frederick recently I met "Chuck" Bmsiu.-* at a church carnival. I also met his wife, two young boys and his mother. "Chuck" Is back with Haskins & Sells In Baltimore. He commutes daily to Frederick, a round trip of approximately a hundred miles. 
That's all the local news except that Vic Wojcihovski, *37. was appointed head football coach at Mount St. Joseph's Academy, Balti­more, tlie first of September, 
Another note has just arrived from Charlie Calluhan. "Add to the stuff sent you." he writes, "this bit of news. i saw J€>e Moare of Detroit one night just for a minute at a South Bend Blue Sox game. The Blue Sox, for your information, is a girl's softball team." 
Herb AVeber left Chicago for St. Louis the first of February and is now working for tlie Federal Brilliant Sign Co. of that city. 
Ed Hickey reports himself back in -circula­tion and in Logansport, Ind.. after the "dura­tion." 
•From St. Augustine, Fla., Ned F-shwick re­ports that Charlie Bennett, '39, is with a law oince there, that Dave BilRer Is keeping busy in the construction business, and that Ganl Oliveros, "41, is in the furniture manufacturing business. Ned Is with the chancery of tlie diocese of St. Augustine, and says he has hopes of making the Tulane game this fall. 
George Delker is a manufacturer and de­signer of furniture in the family's plant at Henderson. Ky. Eil B-^rtnett is a reporter with the New York "Times." 
Paul Schuub is back In Cliarleston, W. Va., after a tour In tlie service. n'nlt MarNhnll has been appointed line coach at Canlsius College, where Earl Brown is coach. 
I O^ Q VINCENT B'. DeCOjKSEY, 1331 I wQrw GeorKiu, Kansas City, Knns. 
Capt. Stan Weigel is still in the army, sta­tioned at Gushing General Hospital at Fram-Ingham. Mass. He hopes to be discharged sometime In October and says he plans to spend another year In a hospital before open­ing his own practice. 
Val Beale, who received his M.A. here, has just been appointed special assistant to Secre­tary of the Navy Forrestal. Val was the flrrt American attorney to give assistance to Hldeki Tojo and 27 other defendants in. the Tokyo war crimes trials, and later he was appointed acting chief of the American Defense Counsel. A lieutenant In the Navy, he returned to the United States last June for his discharge. 
Johnnj Feifcc Is out of the Army anj with Westinghouse in East Pittsbursh. Pa. BIcfc Casey is home in Mason City, Iowa, after, his naval sojourn. BiU ncdaioat is assistant to Jshn Coatwaor» M.A. *S6, executive director of the Boy I^fe Bureau. Knights of Columbus. New Haven, Conn. 
1940 ROBERT G, SANFCmD, 1?S« W. WiwmalB Ave.. Milwvakee, Wis. \ 
Fwil Hellmatht now at the Harvard Law School, reports that he and two other stu­dents there have started the "Harvard Law School Record," a weekly newspaper of news and opinion for the students, faculty and alumni. Paul, the business manager, says the lirst Issue was well received. Bo» SUllcr^ '42, and JiHB O'Df*, *44, are staff members on the same paper. Paul reports that Joha C­pilloa, Ed H—•«•, TMM Wall, Heavy * Scluu­ker are also in the Law school there and XW Jochcms. of Wichita, Kans., had been accept­ed by the Medical school for entrance in September. 
Harrr Boisvevt is in Washington, following his discharge from the Navy, and is finishing up his law school work at Catholic "University. 
Lt. John C. Flyan, 3I.C. was in July a mem­ber ot the staff of the 19th Medical General Laboratory, which is the chief laboratory for the entire southwest Pacific. One of the major rese'arch problems in progress in the ^e a was the investigation of anti-malarial drugs. John reports that he was very proud to learn that Dr. Campbell and his staff at Notre Dame had made such valuable contributions In this field. 
Tom McCarthy- is the vice-president of the McCarthy Improvement Co. in Davenport, la. Paal Burrnmn is back in Wilmington, Bel., after his .discharge from the Navy. Joha Savord has returned to the active practice of law after resigning a position he held with the Sandusky Foundry and Machine Co. 
Bart Hall* Arkansas City. Kans.. is now employed by the personal planes division of the Fairchild Engine and Airplane Corp. as a design engineer. 
Jin Karr is a mechanical engineer with Kearney and Trecker in Milwaukee. 
Eldred Toong is with the research depart­ment of the Shell Oil Company, Inc.. Martinez, Calif. 
Fraak Wilte is working in the engineering section of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Com­pany of California and Is residing in Los Angeles. 
 W. PATTERSON, JR., 5530 1941 ^XmS Rd., PittsbnrKli, ?»• 
Bar:irgton 

Joe Stephen, after six months on a weekly newspaper in Nebraska, has taken a position as publicity and promotion manager of Sta­tion KSCJ, Sioux City, la. 
Dun Marietta is the manager of a post ex* change at Chanute Field, Rantoul. III., and his brother. Fan], '46, is the assistant manager of another exchange. 
Jim Hurley is an employment interviewer with the; USES in Rochester. N. T. Marty Ingrwersaii is an assistant to the superintend­ent of the Great Lakes Engineering Worlcs at Ashtabula, Ohio. 
From afack Ptettenoa: 
"We have had two weddings in the 1941 class since the last "Alumnus'* came out. Eddie McHash was married to Beverly* Quinn in August down in Paterson. X. J. He Is now back in Pittsburgh working at the McGraw Wool Co. iVaak liaVrile was married—I don'c have the girl's name—in New York. Charlie 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Dillon and Bob fItspAtiick were both at that wedding. So was John. Powers, Tom's brother, of the class of *43. 
*'Cliarlie DUIon and I get together a couple of times each month. But there seems to be a scarcity of 19*1 men in Pittsburgh. At least when one looks around the table at the club's Weekly luncheons," 
Tou'll be hearing soon from Pat. He's going in for some needling, via postcards to class­mates. And look for him at the Xai-j' game in Baltimore and Perhaps at the Southern Cal game here. His brother, Harrj-. is a Xotre Dame student this year. 
I *H A Tennis Assoc., 120 Broaduiiy, New Voric City. 
Chuck Keame?', of Dixon, 111., entered Duke University last Januarj- for three years of law school work. Chuck, his wife and baby daughter are living in Piedmont Village, Camp Butner, Durham, N. C. 
Bill H<isinski, South Bend, out of the army since Februarj-, has become associated with the law firm of Jones, Obenchain and Butler in South Bend. 
Bob Hcil is managing a Coca-Cola bottling plant in Dennison, O. Jack Costa is a develop­ment engineer with the Dow Chemical Corp. in Midland. Slich. 
Bub IJC Jeune is the assistant customer sales manager for the Littelfusc Co, of Chicago. Jack ICe^lly was married on July 5 and has moved to Roxburi'. Moss. Frank IMatt has secured a coaching and teaching position in 
•Tohnstown, Pa. 
George SoppHtt is working for his father in the lumber and millwork business in Chicago. Jones Francis Cahill is an aeronautical engi­neer doing research for the National Advisorj* Committee for Aeronautics at Langlej- Field, Va. Bill McGrath is a sales representative for American Air Export and Import in New York. 
George Saxon, of Memphis. Tenn., won two Air Medals while piloting a Coronado fiying boat in the Pacific and is now instructing in PBT's at the Naval Air Station, Pensacola. 
Pliil rucier, of Warsaw, Ind., out of the NaA->- in September, has accepted a position with Stromberg-Carlson in Rochester, N. T., in a sales capacity. 
Charlie Conger wrote in July: 
"Surprised last "Wednesday to get a telephone call from mj- old roommate. Vince Sliicly, who had just docked in New York from Germans'. Got together that evening and had a real old time bull session. Vince, now a captain in Q.M., is on his way to Camp McCoy, Wis., to be discharged and then plans to complete his work for an M.B.A, at Harvard Business School." 
1943 EDWARD C. KONEV, 1723 Iroquois Ave., Detroit, Mich. From EU Roney: 
Thti inarch is on! No bruin or brawn 
Can stop the chance of Hghtinfr men! 
That will have been the crj* for almost three weeks by the time this reaches you and it will go on for six more. The team at registra­tion time looked like, with the addition of a hypo or two of spirit, it could take all their opponents any afternoon with one hand tied behind their backs. 
But to get on with news of the class of M3 instead of the team of '4G: Finallj- found AI Muench's letter postmarked June 7 from Muench's recreation in Neenah, Wis. Al had this to say: "Got your dope sheet and welcomed it as a swell idea. Find that I am faced with an idle hour or two as I sit parked behind the lonely bar of this establishment. 
Lt Philip E. Harbert. '43, a fighter pilot was Jdlied on Jon. 25, 1945, over Germany. Most Rev. John F. OUara, C.S.C.. DJ>., bishop of Buffalo, a cousin of Phil, officiated at a memo­rial Mass for him in Park Ridge, III., on May 18. 1946. Phil's family now resides in Sycamore. HI., where his father. George E.. '18. is the owner of the De Ealb Abstract Co. 
At the present moment, customers are about as scarce as 95 grades from Fr. Hagerty. 
"A thumb nail sketch of my doings since last I saw you: Inducted at Camp Grant on March 30, 1943. Assigned to St. Petersburg (jungle city encampment) for basic training. Operations training at Fort Logan, Colo., and later reassignment to Presque Isle AAF. Me. "Worked In Operations there and was later transfered to Bangor, Me. Left the States shortly after and found myself stationed at Goose Bay. Labrador. Still working under operations. My ^Mother suffered a cerebral hemorrhage last summer just before the end of hostilities in the pacific and I was sent home on furlough. After tliat I went to LaGuardia Feld and was discharged in Xovem­her. Managed to stay out of the 'onicer group* for the whole ordeal and wound up as a buck sergeant. 
"At prcs.?nt I am working for my father taking care of the bowling alleys. I'm trying to learn the routine so' that I will be eventu­ally in a />osition to assume the whole task of running the place. Intend to make the bowling business my sole enterprise in life If 
•circumstances and the population will support same. There is, however, another Item in the fire. I belong tf» a group of Neenah veterans who operate under the name 'Twin City Inter­national Kolations Council.' Our ol)jective is a worthy one since we are arranging to bring noted statesmen, dijilomats and volit'tca} author­ities to Neenah and Menasha so that they may speak to the common public with refer­ence to current events as apply to the present International situation. 
"Became engaged on ilay 20 to Miss Verna Hackstock. \Ve plan to be married on Sept­ember 7. I consider myself very fortunate in having found a good, stable Catholic girl. I firmly believe that there is a good angel parked on my left shoulder. 
"Often think of the gang from Notre Dame and my thoughts turn mostly to the Mob in Alumni Hall. Lt. Larry McCarthy and his dad stopped in here several weeks ago and we had a great gab-fest about everyone from 'brother under the Dome* to Rock and the GIpper. Great guns, how time flies! One would never have thought so during the days when he was faced with an entire set of final exams, though. Larry Is a dentist with the USN." 
Thanks AI, for your extreme promptness and again please excuse my misplacing your letter 'till this issue. Congratulations from all of us on your marriage. 
Cjr Ikmegan 'was another who wrote im­mediately but his letter didn't reach me until after the last issue was written. Cy said: "First here's what I've heard and seen of the 
N. D. group in the last few months. •\\Tiile in the Navy and in Honolulu had a few beers and lots of laughs with Ollie Hunter. Hutch Korth, '41. and I had a wonderful time as guest of an Hawaiian family for two weeks right on the beach of Waiklki. Got out of uniform April 15 and hit the Biltmore men's bar—who walks in but my old roomie. Bill Scully, fresh out of the Marines. Bill's study­ing voice in the big city and expects to be singing for his supper any day now. Gcorse Kasr^as. '41, was here In Stamford last week­end. Played golf with a couple of the boys and raved about Chicago and his f.ist growing family. St. Mar>''s Alice Jackson, now of United Airlines and Detroit, and ' I had a couple of cocktails in the Commodore bar last week. She has frequent stopovers In New Tork on her run between New York and Chi­cago. 
"Second. I'm all for a reunion. I'm all set; just name it and 1*11 find a w*ay to get there. I'll probably drive out so if you know any­body In this neck of the woods who wants a ride tell them to call me up. 
"About myself, I'm chasing down a job In the advertising business In New York. I think I've landed one with the Arm of Henry A. 
•Laudar and will start next week in their research department. Managed to get out of town fast enough so I'm stfll a bachelor. Your column is great. Ed. I can just imagine what you've got to work with though with few writers. Never miss getting a kick out of it." A good letter Cy and thanks for the blow. 
Took a-step down to Notre Dame at registra­tion time to get my young brother set on the course of a Commerce degree. Wished it were I that was moving into Zahm again. Man­aged to find Charley Wade, Jim and Mike Godfrey, Al 3Ia$ters, Bill Welsh, Joe Haas, Art McBride. Don Kelsey, John McGrath, and Jack Hincs back at the old haunts and some new ones. They provided the following: Rulph CarabasI and Bill Terheyden are M.D's. . . Bill SolUvan made it a threesome around the first of Sept. . . . Harry O'Menliu Is heading the O'Mealia Outdoor Advertising Co. in Jersey City. . . . Jack Barry took unto himself a wife, Sept. 7 on campus. . . . Sam McQuaid will soon be ex-Army and on campus again. . . . Bob Kenney expecting an addition for Halloween. . . . Tom Moloney feeling better everj- day. . . - Grahni 3lcGowan will struggle through his bar exams in October. . . . John HcGrath now Law student but at Saratoga races this summer. Only horse he could win on was 'Dumb John' which proves John's aren't so dumb: . . . Johnny Murray is a married accountant in Burlington, Vt. . . . Frank King, my old roomie, was punching the cash register behind the Saratoga track bar during the summer. . . . Hatt Sullivan finished George­town's Dental school and is now 'practicing' on soldiers in Germany. , . . Boh I>ore is a playing coach with the new Chicago Rockets. . . . Jack Ilnnecaii starting law at N. D. . . . JacJc Byan has returned to campus. • . . Bill O'Brien now managing American Airlines in Albany. . . . Jim and 3Iike Godfrey are law students. . . .Georce Gilhuoley Is a threesome in Jersey C»ty. . -. - Bill Oarroll a De Paul law-student. .. . Nick Villarosa a benedict since June 2S. - . . Columbia law has Joe Tracy while Columbia teachers are teaching IVank Kunkel. . . . Bill Barly coaching at Notre Dame. . . . The commerce school again see­ing Ed Xooaao. . . . Pres. Jack Tallett en­gaged. . , . Jim Walsh leaves the Mrs. and Jim Jr., in Michigan while traveling dally to Notre Dame classes. . . . Chuck Kane at Western Reserve law has had a homework helper in his wife since early August. . . . Cy Siacer twice as hea\-y is trodding those old 

Kotre Bame paths again. . . . Joe ^^as life­guarded summer in New Jersey and now is back on campus. . . . Mike Kieljr back from California at Notre Dame. .. . Don KHsey straightened out the NTC this summer and is working on Notre Dame now. . . . Tom 0*3Iallry going to Goodrich tire school at Akron. . . . Kay Heinxm helping his dad run the plant in Wisconsin. The Heinzens* are now four. . . . Bod Hayes married Bob Sacsaa's sister after Bob married Bud's, . . . Elmer Peterson was a campus visitor and may re­turn for good. . . . Walt McNamam is general manager of the McNamara Co. in Oak Park, ilarried and will be marching the noor around Thanlcsgiving. 
Back to some swell letters. Said Coach Bob Wabh in late August. "Good intentions of writing you before this but I've been pretty busy. Glad to hear you are back in the old stamping grounds. This being a civilian is everything It's cracked up to be. I was discharged last November and just vacationed with my wife un^il January when I took over 
here at Parks Air College, East St. Louis as Athletic Director and head of the physical 
•education department. 
"This is really a wonderful school in regards to the aviation industry. It is not a school to learn flying but a school to learn commer­cial airline operation engineering, and mainte­nance engineering. It is the oldest school of its kind and is recognized very highly in the industrj-. 
"Right now I am getting ready to wind up a successful baseball season. After that I start basketball practice. The school is still on a stepped-up schedule so I don't have the time for a football team. They intend to lengthen the courses again and I'll then put in football. I have some darn good prospects that I've been looking over. 
"I am looking forward to our five year re­union. In the meantime I would lilie to hear from some of the fellows. If you hear from or contact any of my old cronies tell them to send me their address. 
"Wont to the St. Louis—X. D. picnic and saw Chuck Murpli>% Bill Wamitk, and IVult Ullsoii. Tiiat was all from our class. Have you heard from Bill Costello? liy "Alumnus" hasn't been coming but I've slipped up on my donation so maybe that's the reason. I'll get to that right away. 
"Yes, we are expecting the middle of October. I hope your resi>onse was good to your printed letter." Best of luck. Bob, on the coaching job. No, Costello Is another who has yet to write. Thanks. 
Old Joe Callahan came through in late August also from 720S Buffalo Ave., Niagara Falls, with the folowing: "Here's a 'Ist en­dorsement' on Steve £nsner'i» letter of approval of your efforts to keep the column and class living things. 
"Also, my news, is far from spectacular. I was discharged from the Navy late in April and after a month's lay-off went to work for National Carbon Co. in tlie Foreign Sales Department. Riglit now I'm working In Do­mestic Sales until some time In October when 1*11 be shipped out to Calcutta to spend a three year assignment there. 
"Another Notre Dame man. B<ib 3I«XauEh­lin» *41, Is headed for a similar assignment in Shanghai. Both of us have been working in middle New York state for our district sales office and have been together for some time now. Another Notre Dame man working for Bakelite (a subsidiary) is Poul Ullls.. Paul Is a technical representative for Bakelite and Is very enthused about the future of his job. 
"I iiaven't heard from Jack Wigneins or Fred Gore In a month or so. I guess they don't have much more time on their hands than I do. By the way. Ed. how about sending me Hank Kane's address. The last time I saw him was in '42 in Oran when Tom Cuoney, Fred Gore, Fete Moritz and I all happened to be in that spot the same liberty. I'd like to look up Hank the next time I hit the big City." Thanks Joe and Hank's address Is coming. 
A letter arrived awhile back from Bill M^cr who said. "Just a few lines to say hello and to compliment you on the fine work you are doing as alumni representative of our class. As you probably know I have been attending the Law school at Notre Dame for the past semester but have now decided to go into business and continue law at my own con­venience witli LaSalle Extension. 
"I have enjoyed becoming reacquainted with the several members of the class who returned to the campus last semester. Re^g^e Flynn who lived with me these past months also has finished and I understand that he feels con­fident that Joe Haas will be back to promote anything that there Is to promote. He'll be assisted by others of the class returning to their favorite school. HeXsey, McGrath, Masters and Welsh. 
"I hear that you are In the printing business so may I wish you a lot of success." Some­one gave you the wrong dope. I'm still un­employed but have a few good-looking pros­pects In mind. 
AH the above letters hadn't arrived by Sept. 5 so I sent an emergency telegram to Don IleltzeU I'Ce Raymond^ Jack GHIiKiin, Quince Sturm and J. J. Becker asking for news so this column would look like one. Don and Lee were the only ones to answer which was a tough blow because I can't piece to­getlier a class column If you fellows won't send in the news. How about all getting to­gether from now on? This isn't and can never be a one man proposition. I'm just a clearing house. I'm verj- grateful to Don and Lee for the following: Don wrote, "Your wire caught me just as I was cleaning off my desk here preparatory to quitting my job and going back to schooK 
"For the past couple of montlis I have been acting as traffic manager here at the Heltzel Steel Form and Iron Co. while the regular 
T.M. was in the hospital. Have been kept pretty busy and as a result I am rfraid I will disappoint you In my news about Notre Dame men. especially those of our class. 
"About two months ago. however, my sister Louise wlio graduated from St. Mao''s In 1945 married Leo Keating. Ed Sampierre from ND acted as the best man. Since the wedding Leo has been working with me here at the plant in the shipping department. He and Louise win be leaving for Ann Arbor in a few weeks where he expects to take an IS months course In Bus. Ad. Tliey have been having a pretty tough time locating an apartment in Ann Arbor but hope to have something before scliool starts. 
"Leo just mentioned to me that they ran into RofiT Hendricks, '39-'41, when he and Louise were in upper Michigan and also Jerry Currier, who Is a lawyer in Detroit. I also understand Kd Sampierre is going to return to Notre Dame this fall. 
"Somebody In Youngstown was telling me recently that RegKie Flynn, erstwhile president of the Glee Club, is home now, but expected to go to Detroit to worlc In one of the auto plants tliere, so you'll probably be running into liim. 
"Recently I met BiU Meyers at the golf driving range just outside of Warren and he said he is working for one of the steel mills in Youngstown temporarily. 
"Wliile I was assigned to the USS Princeton, a carrier, I ran into Joe O'Keefe In Philadelphia and Bernie O'Connor who was at that time stationed at the Naval Hospital there. Bernie Is out now and is probably continuing his pre­med studies at St. Louis, Joe Is going to Harvard Business, I believe. 
"I ran into Bob Browning and his wife Pat one Saturday at the Biltmore In New York just before Bob was discharged from his PT squadron, preparatory to leaving for law school at Michigan. 
"Skipping* around a bit among the other classes. Joe Dmj who managed the *40 foot­ball team has his own business here, the Dray Office Equipment Co. 
''^l TanHsffel, '40, who Is a trustee with myself of the Toungstown Notre Dame Club has been out of the Navy for sometime and Is working at VanHuffel Tube Corporation. 
"F«4o Sbeehan is back at the Toungstown 
•Vindicator,' which by the way seems to be a Notre Dame stronghold. 
"When I was in South Bend a while ago. Joe IHllon told me that Jack Hutc r liad been injured In Germany while serving as a medic. I have not heard of Jack in a long time. The three of us, Joe, Jack and I graduated from St. Thomas together. 
"That sketchy bit is about the best I can do. Ed, on my own, but Leo passed me the following bit of doi)e. 
"He said he had a letter from Ed Cnmmincs recently, now out of service. He seems to have settled down in England where he is studying for his M.A. in English at Bristol U- Ed is engaged to an English girl. 
"Jack Dacan is at Carnegie Tech taking an engineering course. The last time /I saw Jack was at Sublc Bay in the Philippines where his ship was laid up for repairs after having Its bow blown off by a mine at Marlveles. 
"Sorry, Ed, I could not get off the long newsy letter you requested but I hope this helps you out and gets to your desk in time. 
"If you get down to Notre Dame this fall, look me up. I will be living at 1S46 Wllber St." There icould be no kicks to the letter. Don. Thanks. 
Old Bulldog Raymond came through with this, "Recei\"ed your wire and hope 1*11 be on time for th© deadline. Most of the news I have is good. Bob Raof will be a father In a matter of weeks and Bob Sweeney will be a father just a short time later. Both are stock­ing up on cigars at the moment. 
**Jack X^ett passed through town the other night and reported that he had very recently become engaged to a lovely girl from Arizona. 
**Pinky Wabh is home now and I have only seen him once. He seemed quite happy to^ have returned from Manila. 
"Haven't heard much of the other boys recently although ^11 fVye was in town a few months ago and was going to a hospital In northern Wisconsin to interne. 
'*John Solon, known to his friends as the 'Bod,' has been a father for several weeks. Spoke to Jack shortly after I returned from my Pacific vacation but haven't succeeded in getting together with him. 
"Would really like to see that character Jim Cahill again. After all, Jim and I took a long trip together and had a great time bouncing along from hole to hole the length and breadth of the Solomon Islands- I'll bet Jim weighs in at about 225 now. He'll be glad to know I'm slim as ever. 
"Gad Rtch is hard at work now, so I don't see him often enough. He and I played on a baseball team earlier in the summer which also Included Sweeney, Baaf, and Mox Rogers, '4-1. But we didn't seem to have the old drive. Ddn't do too well. Chack Golden will be sorry to hear that the old members of Farley's AC have slipped. 
"Well, Ed, that's all. . See you at the foot­ball games this fall. A lot of the boys should be there this year.'* That covers your area pretty well. Lee. Thanks. And mentioning gangs at football games brings up something else. How about the class trying some informal get-togethers during the season. Army for the east and So. Cal. for the western gang. If we met in the Commoeiore Bar Friday and/or ' Saturday nights in New York there should be quite a gang. And last year the Caf before and the main gate after the game served very well at school- Let's see how many of the class can make either one. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Laro* Sallivan has been appointed director of sports activities of the C.Y.O. of the Diocese of Hamilton. Ontario, Canada. Larr>- will also be attached to the staff of Cathedral High School in Hamilton. 
Wan Stewart is now employed in the engi­neering department of United Air Lines in Chicago. 
Jay Gibson is working for the U. S. Rubber Co.. In ilishawaka. Bill McGowan, of Jersey Shore. Pa., has accepted a position with Cur­tiss-Wright in tlie design section at Columbus, Ohio. 
John nietliofr* Pelham. X. Y.. has gone to work for Pan American World Airways in Xew York Cit.r. 
From Bob L^Mcflse: 
•*I see Hans Hclland at the "Wisconsin Dells every few weeks or so. The past months have been busy ones for him. Saw AI Meunch in Xeenah several weeks back. He was working with his father tliere. Also saw the Christmart boys, n'ally and Fritz, in Green Bay recently. I work out of Green Bay so should see more of them. Go through LaCrosse every few weeks and have long intended calling Bill Dvorak or the Padesky's. Understand Scoop Scanlon has left LaCrosse in favor of X. Y. C. 
"I owe Art Keatinc a letter—a congratulatory one as he was married a few months back. Haven't heard from Herb Becker recently. He's flying for TWA. "Would like to hear from Jack Bunla^-}-. And. oh yes, my old roommate, Frank Hal«y» wrote that he was about to leave the bachelor ranks come the 2Sth of the month (September). Also wonder how Don Heltzel is doing 7" £He*s at Notre Dame— doing graduate work. Ban Bou-ney's back too —finishing up his final semester.—Ed.] 
m OAA >OUN A. LYNCH, 157S4 Grandrille 
• yVt ltd., Detroit 23, Mich. 
From John Lj-ncb: 
Swinging into the fall season we'll have to clear the remainder of our summer mail first. Jim Cunnin^liuni is on top with a letter which reached us one clay too late for the last, column. As of July 14 then: 
"Duly has made it impossible for me to leave without a reh'ef, but one is finally on the way. AVill arrive at the Great Lakes separation center about 20 August, with my terminal leave running well into September. 
"Plan to join a group of former Notre Dame Catliolic Action leaders who have returned to South Bend to start a CA. publishing house. Right at the moment two of them, Marty McLatuffhlin and Vince Hogun^ together witli fUther Luuis Putz, are in Europe attending International Student Conference as part of a 
U. S. representation. 
"Tlie Perkins arrived back in the states on 30 April and I had a couple of weeks leave in ^lay. While visiting the campus ran into more *44 men. who like myself were just visit­ing, than I did returned students, insurance salesman Jatk Woelfle was hunting down customers with an Army surplus carbine; J<ise Caruerji.4r whom I had last seen at a dance in Panama, was on a good will tour for his government; Vince Duncan was guzzling ice cream in the caf; Gtui Zuebike (former lioeman on the Victory Garden Conimittee of the Sorin Hall Evil Eyes) was on terminal le-tve as a JG. 
"One Saturday night in Chicago 1 was out with Chuck Pattenion. Our commodore was CO on the Dorsch when it 'picked Chuck out of the water near the P. I. in November '44. 
"Going to spend the last ten days of August at the family cottage on Lake "Wisconsin, and then head for Notre Dame." 
Out of North Chelmsford, :Mass.. July 21, 'Black John* Murphy sent a short letter as his summer contribution. By now the Murpli is back at the books, or should be. 
"We could not remain for the big reunion because Agnes' brother was wedded on June 29 and we attended. 
"Had a reunion-of-sorts with Bd DowliRK and his girl. Syd Marr, at Glen Island Casino. It was wonderful to see him after these years. He looks great, and is the same as ever. Was in hopes of having Bill McNamara of Baldwin. N- Y., tliere also, but our communications got fouled up and he never arrived." 
Notes from a couple of scholars. Bab DalTey and Tom Clemens, tell us that they were hard at the books this past summer, along with some other Notre Dame men. From Bob. July 2S: 
"Itay H>-mel, Ray I>id:ke, Oscar Qnodbadc, Prof. I«o Kuntx and others are with me at ilarquette University for the summer session. At the Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee party last week I saw Prof. Yves Simon, Bob Hart­mann. Bod Sullivan., Tom Dixon and a number of faces new to me." 
.A.nd from Tom, July 29: 
"The Notre Dame contingent now installed in the Harvard Law^ School Is variously absorbed in learning the law and keeping up with the world. Jim O'Dea and I represented the '44 class at a Notre Dame get-together just a few nights ago. Another man from our class at the Law School is IJCO Buchaicninl. ily roommate is John Q. OXonnell. '42. AVe are veterans one and all." 
Out of Indianapolis comes a letter from Paul l4u>on, August 17. Paul was separated from the Navy July 10. and shortly after checked in for an appendectomy with the local medico. He was almost completely re­covered when he wrote. 
"I was on an old destroyer most of my time in the Navy. It was the Shaw, the one that blew up and made such a tremendous picture during the bombing of Pearl Harbor. When it was decommissioned I ended up as gunner>' officer on a DE. I ran into a few fellows such as Jim riatt off his LST at Planus, and Anstin Junes and his LCT at Pearl. Of course, San Francisco was the old meeting place. I spent a few nice days with £d Mnnaiian there. Also satv Bonnie BontcelH, Jim 3fe3glier and Jerry Nilles there. Quite a few others here and there slip my mind. 
"The early part of this year the DE had some good duty down in Panama. After I arrived home the first person I saw was Mike Kelly. He is getting married to Audrey, Sept. 21, I have heard that Tom Ctwtellt* was mar­ried and ii father. . 
"Elmer Ostermeyer came over to the house this afternoon. First time I've seen him in three years. He'll be back at Notre Dame for a while with Jim Worl. John Riley has been down to spend a week-end with mo." 
From Burlington, la,, August 20, Evald Kodin wrote: 
"Enjoyed the 'Alumnus' picture of the Hawaii Club verj- much, as I attended sovehil of their meetings. Bill Banifin is one of the most remarkable fellows I've ever met. Recognized Boh White, but those two were the only ones in the picture I knew. • 
" I was stationed at Pearl for ten months. I^eft there Jlay 23 on the JIarine Dei*il. and received my discharge June 17 at Bainbridge, aid-, with the rank of corporal. I have been accepted In the Graduate School of Geologj­at the University of Iowa, which sounds very good to mo." 
Bob 3Iartina, who signed up for another year of Navy, seems to be having the best of it. As of Sept. 1, he was at the XAS, Patuxent River, lid. 
"Since the reunion I have been writing to Johnny Beyerle and Dan Tiiihcik, but haven't heard from either for a month or so. I hear that Leo Bitter Is out of the Army now. and It Is some time since I' have heard from George Chart(.rs. I saw £d Nu^snt when home last week at this time: He looks about the same after three years, and is married. 
- "I have been pulling a lot of Navy boon­doggles during the last month. Including a 15-day leave home. On - July • 23 I caught a Navy flight to • Cheyenne when Nlmitz and some of the hoys were going out west for a vacation, and I knew the pilot. Enough said. After I returned, and after two weeks at the base. I heard about a flight to Denver. That was a top deal, so I managed to squeak out another week at home. 
"The Navy says that I can be separated at any time, but I think I will stay in until next July."' 
Out of the Navy now Leo Lardie comes through with a long letter about his travels and the Notre Dame men he met on the way. He wrote Sept. 10. 
"•1 see by the last 'Alumnus' magazine that my old buddy Faal O'Connell was asking about me. Well, will start at the beginning and bring my activities up-to-date. 
"Left Notre Dame In Oct^jber '43 and on to New York, where I took four months of midshipman school at Prairie State Danny Snllii-an, Bob Thamm. Milt Flyke, Joe McMan­ns and Joe Simons were there at the same time. We got our commissions, and for this lad it was westward ho. Went to San Fran­cisco, thence to Mare Island where I Joined the good sh p Selfridge DD357. At that time she was undergoing repairs due to batt'e damage suffered at Vella La Vella. We re­mained at Mare Island until April 1, at which time we set out on a shakedown cruise. In May we started out and wont to Pearl Harbor, thence to Majuro (Marshalls), and off for the Marianas campaign. Including Salpan, Tinian and Guam. 
"In August of 1944 we received orders and back we came, stopping at Eniwetok. Pearl Harbor and then San Diego, in all that time D»Te Bone)' (at Pearl) was the only one I saw that I knew. We went on to Panama and New York, barely missing the hurricane of September which sank one of our sister ships. I was then sent to the DesLant Engi­neering School, and whom should I meet there but Sall-Tan» Tbumm and Flyke again. Went ' to Hew York right after the Army game and ran into B::b DnflTy, Bob McCready, George Kinney and Bob Kohl In the Pennsylvania Hotel that evening. Was unable to make the game, however, because of school. 
"I rejoined my ship in early December and from then until June made three round trips in convoy to Oran. Algeria, and back. Saw Vic Kimroel over in Algeria on the last trip, and Vince lackner on the second trip. ^lissed Frank Garilialdi by about two days just before returning in June. .We went into the Navy Yard after that and began taking on more anti-aircraft etc.. for the Pacific. Meantime Garibaldi haa come home, so I spent a good week-end with him. 
"On V-J day we went over to New Jersey, loaded ammunition, and two days later set sail for Guantanamo Bay. Cuba, still under orders for the Pacific. Spent ten days there, then returned to Casco Bay, ilainc, and In the middle of Septemlier to New York. This time down went our commission pennant, and the Selfridge headed for the scrap heap. I was detached on Oct. 8 and took 30 days leave. Visited scliool, and saw Sam Woiff, Brother Meinrad, Profe««sor Eirry and Dean Schubmehl. I hit right In between semesters, and the place was deserted. 
"Went to the pre-Army game rally at the Waldorf on Friday night and planned to go to the game. However, at the time the game started I was at 90 Church Street getting orders, so 1 missed it again. This time went to Pensacola where I joined the Gearing DD710. I relieved the engineering officer the first week of December and spent the winter there, guarding for the Ranger. We left there In March and headed for Casco Bay again, pre­paring for the 8th Fleet operations. While in the Naval Hospital at Portsmlth for an oi>eratlon the ship sailed. In May I received the orders I was waiting for. Was processed the 31st and ended terminal leave June 28. 

"Took an auto trip In June and spent the rest of the summer takingr it easy and looking around (not too hard) for work. In August I took a position with the Electro Metallurgi­cal Company, In the power department. I am a teclinlcal student in a 90,000 kilowatt sta­tionary steam power plant. The work is Interesting and the job seems promising, so at this point all is well. I'm living at the Glen Ferris Inn. here in Glen Ferris, W. Va. It's a rather small community, but Charleston is only 35 miles away. 
"Have my order in for tickets to the Army game, and am going to do my best to make this one. Hope to get out to school for one, preferable Southern Cal. 
"If anyone knows where Ihuuiy SDlliTOn is, how about a line." 
News from here and there we'll now pass along in rather condensed form. We learn that Frank McManus, '45, is working for Inter­national Business Machines as manager in Heading. Pa. Frank said he would be out Notre Dame way when his brother got a start on campus this fall as a freshman in Com­merce. 
Duke Learj- is moving to New York to at­tend Columbia's Graduate School of Journalism, and will be at 840 Grand Concourse in case you want to get in touch with him. John' Hant, '43, will be with the Duke in classes. 
John <>iwley was still at Fort George "Wright Hospital last we heard. The docs may let him loose in December, and he hopes to re­turn to Notre Dari\c in February. 
Jerome Cordes, '43, is a first lieutenant. MC, at Fort Sheridan's Regional Station Hospital. His assignment Is temporary, but he'll get a permanent one, for a year or more anyway. In January. 1947. 
Bill Carey, *46, tells me in a quick note that he Is going to Columbia University Law School, and hopes to see some of the Notre Dame crowd now at Columbia, including Joe Patmcco.' 
Ted Toole Is with Bloomingdale Bros. De­partment Store in New York City as an assist­ant buyer of major appliances. During the summer he saw Jim Sullivan, *41. and his wife. Bud Dudley, '43, and Johnny Slorehead. He had a letter from Jack McSweeney telling that Dick A'Hvarn and Jack Kelley arc at the University of .Cincinnati Law School. aicSweeey is in his last year at Johns Hopkins and will intern at Cincinnati General. And Dr. Rol>ert Fansch is interning in St. Louis. 
That takes oare of the correspondence. 
Along the way we've picked up some news of our own that may be of interest. During a summer trip to New York your columnist stayed with Jock Woelfle and his family 
r 
4Z«M/ DOAm E 
DIFFEBENT MALONEYS 
LL Anthony J. Moloney, '43».Ui»Jf^ was a Tisitor in the Alumni Office on Oct 1. Aiter a long period in the Nary, including both Atlantic and Pacific service, (part oi the time on Lt Fred Carideo's boat), Tony, still in the Navy, is back in Washington, 
D. C. temporarily. The only catch in getting back in the States, Tony re­ports, is meeting too many people who hove him confused with an un­happy incident involving an entirely different Moloney. 

tions Island. Al Zoilo, who is with D*Andrea Bros, tailors in the City, was around one evening, as was Charlie Koesler, who by now is back on campus. Behind the Notre Dame T-shirts on the beach one Sunday I saw Fkmnk Kunkel, *43, Tony Earlry* *45, Bill Johnson, '43, and Dick Murphy, *42. On the way home I stayed one night with Gene Moore, '45, in Pottsville. Pa. 
I met Bill Bo^s at Notre Dame in August and we went to Chicago for the All-Star game. At the Blackstone after the game we saw Geonee St. Georce and Jim Byrne, *43. of Detroit. Xick Amato is teaching history at Notre Dame. Bill Madden, *45, came in to register for the graduate school and made it at the last minute- Tony Earley was registered also. 
At the recent Detroit Club Golf Day John Anhut, Bob fisher, John Morris and Dave Roney played a foursome. I understand Anhut showed them how the game is really played. 
Dick and Elmer MilHman here in Detroit collaborated on a little party for Gcorse Bar­rett, '43, of Louis\*ille, who visited them in September. Hert Melton and Jini O'DiMwell of *43, and Paul Rwmey and Frank Wilson of *45, were among the elbow benders. 
If you're *44, drop us a line soon. 
John 0*Hara since July 1 has been an ad­juster with the American Automobile Insur­ance Co., working out of the Philadelphia branch office and covering the southern New Jersey teritory. John's home is In Westmont. 
on N. J. 
BSU 0*Bafc» has accepted & position as a stru<!tares enrlneer with the Colombia Air­craft Corp., in Valley Stream, X. T. 
Is oQt of the Navy and is living in South Bend while he Is tlnishlnv In acconntinK at Notre Dame. 
f O^C JASaS W. SGHASnmB, PWdty 
•T^ 9 Pipeilsift, GcMnI KIcctrie Ca^ SchfKitMy S, N. T. 
Sept. 6. Jim WrhnHfer» bis hearted as alwairs. wrote: "How about giving our little band of *45 a claas column. That * '45 and Xiater* business looks lonely. I would be sl&d to offer my services in helping gather material for it —if I could get a list of names and addresses of the class members." &-. 
And sfi—Jim SdmcVcr is the new *45 class secretary. Seriously. - and with Kratltude to Jim, the editors of the ^Alumnus'! can't think of any one who is better equipped to do the job well. A professional newspaper man while he was a student, Jim Is now a publicity man with G-E in Schenectady, and hd knows lots of Notre Ttatne people. The Alumni' Office is sending Jim a 1945 class list and- will confer with him when he. is at.Notre Dame in early November, on his vacation. 
Jim Scliweidicrt, Detroit, was married on Sept. 7 and dropped us a card while on his honeymoon cruise on the Great Lakes. 
Dr. Bob Osmeraa, of Homell, N. T.. will enter the service .as a.jreptacement dentist. Bob graduated from the University of Buffalo in June and was the president of. his class. 
Ted Byan^ Seattle, Is- an assistant attorney general in Waahington. 
Jack FitspKtricfc, Notre Dame's leadlns golfer in 1944, re^ntly won the first occupation Open golf tourney in Japan. Jolu B. SHmutt* Houston. Tex., has been promoted to Tech­nician, Fourth Grade, while serving with the United States forces in Austria. 
CATHOUC BOOK WEEK SET 

The 1946 observance of Catholic Book Week thTOQghont the eoantry has been scheduled from Nov. 3 to 9, it has been announced by Brother J. Sylvester, F.S.C., of Christian Brothers CoUege, na­tional chairman of the observance for the Catholic Labrary Association. 
n 

MHCe '42 nowinthemakins. 
Orders will be accepted until December 15 — Price: $7.00 the copy. DOME will be forwarded about May 15, 1947. 
Name.-... 
Address.. 
(Clip blank and mail to Publications Office. Notie Dame, Ind., with your remitlonea.) 
WWWW •l>^HHOori OOOWWWWW>t> p o rt o Jl, I c J S ™ o re (11 «• p p 2 S F •• p m p N ^5 o ?S s o fr 
3-5-3 S 3 1

.&la P re °liis 
^ w (W U ^ K

alzioow O OB Jitlll ^Wi 
'J' tn J 
o s ^ ^ §^ a-" .-Mil, o§^ir 
re p 3 W3 <§ '^m 3 a a^ tn 3 S? •1 3 —3 ,
<3 3 o-S 1 
3 , o-

o "ire.
re re ' *"* 
3 

o 
r-h 
WWW bbhoWbb2woEoStr'WWhhhtr'Wbt-*'^hHw'^wtr'o'^ 
r^»^wt^bwwcwhwir^hHww*^ES'^'^''^i^»'0£l2'0-oW 5* 
HHH t?;! Htd WH W WHWWOCiHHOWOWHpQtdOH WHOW 
CD 
B 
(D 
o 
giii5iig§gisSSgSSSS|gg||S|5gSSgg|SS||g5J£8SS||gg 
,0 O 
t-ioot ^KS' >?r?QQ«QooHWgo^gKjKjKj m O 
re s'a -S:2:5;LB:?3:SE 70
gii^fgiirfiiriiii^fir^i —I 
3:3 •SK 
g'o'p „ !?ei^S 
I*. Till Op l|H^ w 
...41 § §
1- 5; 
re re 

o i^^^f^S*^!;^ HP p 'O Si. 
p 

p 
CO 
!z!!2! p izl !z!fe! iz! s !z! izl Iz! !z! Iz! > !z!fe|fe! g;fe; SS III ^^^^im#^^^^??l^^im?l !z|iz:!z:!z!>>s!|iz!s::>g>s; •§ 
o.p 

OfklppppOPOPPHPOPPPP 
-. ^^^_^^^-y^^^^^. ^j-. -. • -OPPpgHopPH p H o
3^|^g^4P^g^^|4S^33^HI rifir 
re "^^ ^-4 re |-<^4 n ^4 ^4444^^ re"^ re'3<^ re re<^<^<^.^4 «>'3'^4 3*4 " 
£1. 
coMto to 01CO >t^ cocococo cocotoco M to M to lb.OS to to cocoii^ coeocoMCo to' co l^^MO *ktOUl O OOJOS-a OOOJl-'Oi -fl if^oo OT to to mm ii^ o> 
Years 
OMHJHMOOMMHOtOOOMtOtOOMHtOMMtOt01-^WH'KtOtOlOOOlOOtOI--»l--'tOOOtOOI--'01-'H'OI--'t-'lOOtOtOMl--'OOOI--'01-'OI-'MOtOtO plflycd 
at N.D. 





