The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
UJ 

'^i« book i . 
THE NOTRE DAME 
< 
LU I— o  ALUMNUS  
o  
>  
CO  
LU >  
BERNARD J. VOLL, President of the Alumni As­sociation, Addresses a Coast-to-Coast Audience from the Campus on Universal Notre Dame Nisht.  

MAY. 1936 

y^m;

— and Chesterfields are usually there 
theyVe mild and yet 
j'. 
© 19J6, LicGcrr &. M^ as ToD\cco Co 


likes the New CHEVROLET because it is 
\/X^S / 

M
EN and •women... young folks and grown-ups only low-priced car with the Knee-Action Gliding .. . people who live in large cities and people Ride*, Genuine Fisher No Draft Ventilation and •who live in smaller communities.. .all like the new Shockproof Steering*, for maximum comfort and 1936 Chevrolet. dri-vdng ease! And the only low-priced car •with a They are placing this heautiful new Chevrolet first in High-Compression Valve-in-Head Engine, gi-ving the their favor hecause it's the only complete low-priced car. finest combination of performance and economy! 
That, as you know, means it's the only low-priced You, too, want all these modem advantages in your car wth New Perfected Hijdraulic Brakes and a Solid new car. Insist upon having them. Buy a new 1936 Steel one-piece Turret Top, for greatest safety! The Che'vrolet—the only complete low-priced car. 
FOR ECOnOHIUL TBANSPOKUTION 

NEW PEUFECTED HYDRAULIC BRAKES ^_— gBK==^ SOLID STEEL ONE-PIECE TURRET TOP BODIES IMPROVED GLIDING KNEE-ACTION RIDE* ^^y3yLjS|33y GENUINE FISHER NO DRAFT •VENTILATION HIGH-COSIPRESSION VALVE-IN-HEAD ENGINE SHOCKPROOF STEERING* • GENERAL 
HOXORS INSTALUtlEAT FLAN—3IONTHLY PAXMENTS TO SUIT YOUR PURSE • A GENERAL MOTORS VALUE 
*Avmlal>le in Masur De luxe modds only. Knee-Action, $20 additional. Oieavkt Maur Co., Detroit, Mich. 



The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, "25 The masszine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association Member of tfie Americaa of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price Is $2.00 
Editor Alumni Council. 
a year; the price of single copies is 2S cents. The annual alumni dues of S5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 
WlLUAM R . DOOLEY, 7 6 Member of Nal'K CaAolic 
1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. All Managing Editor correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus. Box SI. Notre Dame. Ind. Alumni Federation. 
Vol. XIV. May, 1936 No. 8 

International Figures Feature Commencement 
Archbishop Mooney, Mayo Brothers in Brilliant Scene; 
Alumni Program and Student Activities Fill Three Major 
Days, June 5, 6 and 7; Record Attendance Anticipated 
Alumni who have been curious about Commencement have this cur­iosity rewarded with the announce­ment that the 1936 program once more brings to Notre Dame a group of celebrites whose names when men­tioned connote volumes of achieve­ment to those familiar with the na­tional scene. 
Dr. William J. Mayo, international­ly famed surgeon of the Mayo Clinic, Rochestei", Minnesota, will give the Commencement address, and the Most Rev. Archbishop Edward P. Mooney, Bishop of Rochester, New York, vrill deliver the Baccalaureate sermon at the ninety-second Commencement ex­ercises of the University of Notre Dame on Sunday, June 7. 
Honorary Degrees Honorarj' degrees will be conferred upon these two speakers as well as upon Dr. Charles H. Mayo, brother of Dr. William Mayo and co-founder of the Mayo Foundation and Clinic, and upon Air. Francis P. Gai-van, of New York City, attorney and founder of the Chemical Foundation, of New York. Bachelors' degi'ees will be awarded to 466 candidates in the Colleges of Arts and Letters, Science, Engineer­
ing, Law and Commerce. One hun­dred and seventy-four members of the class of 1936 will be. graduated with honors. 
The three-day graduation program, in conformitj' with tradition, will be­gin at noon on Fi-iday, June 5, with a talk to the senior class by the Rev. John P. O'Hara, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame, and will be climaxed on Sunday by the Baccalaureate Mass in the morning and the conferring of the degrees in the late afternoon. 
Class Reunions Meanwhile, class reunions will be held and the senior class admitted to the alumni association at the annual alumni dinner on Saturday evening. Special ai-rangements are being made for the golden anniversary of the class of 1886, the silver anniversary of the class of 1911 and the five-year reunion of the class of 1931. Archbishop Mooney, who will de­liver this year's Baccalaureate ser­mon, was former Apostolic Delegate to India and to Japan and has long been a friend of Notre Dame and of the priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross, of Notre Dame, with whom he was associated in Rome and in mission work in India. 
CLAXr CCUNI€NX - JUNE 5, 6 
50-yEAR CLASS 1886 
DIX GROUP 1936 1892 1893 1894 1895 

5-yEAR CLASS 1931 
Special 


CLASS OF 1921 CLASS OF 1926 

It is obviously fitting that the Mayos, so brilliant in the annals of American medical science, should fea­ture a Commencement which sees the completion of the new University In­firmary, the growing prominence of Notre Dame in the iield of science, and the proposed plans of the Univer­sit}- for expanding this development. 
Banquet and Club Council 

The Alumni Banquet and . the Council of Local Alumni Clubs will possess a special scope and signifi­cance this year which should bring together a record alumni group. 
Similarly the Class Reunions, as outlined, promise to bring back large numbers of men whose names this year, if a year can stand out, loom large in the history and traditions and the present picture of Notre Dame. 
The hospitality of the University is as usual extended to all alumni, whether members of the Reunion Classes or not, and the values of at­tendance can be determined by ask­ing the nearest alumnus who ever attended. 


 AND 7, 1936 
25-yEAR CLASS 1911 
DIX GROUP 1936 1911 1912 1913 1914 

U. N. D. Night Shatters Records O'Brien New End 
More Clubs; More Meetings; Coach 
More Local Radio Stations; More 
Publicity; 
Keyed by a i-adio broadcast from the University campus and from the Notre Dame Club of the District of Columbia, on the National Broad­casting Company's facilities, the Thirteenth Annual Universal Notre Dame Night, observed on April 20, exceeded all pre^ous Nights in every field which the annual celebration em­braces. 
In Washington where the Club was entertaining Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, the President of the Uni­versity, His Excellency Bishop John 
M. McNamara, D.D., LL.D. '34, and a group of distinguished alumni and friends of Notre Dame in the main ballroom of the Mayflower Hotel, the national hook-up originated at 10:30 
E.S.T. Bishop McNamai-a was intro­duced by Frank C. Walker, '09. Fol­lowing the Bishop, the progi-am was switched to the campus radio stu­dios where the Jloreau Choir and President Bernard J. Voll, '17, of the Alumni Asociation, participated. The program was returned to Washington for a final address by Father O'Hara. Bishop McNamara's address on Cath­olic Action was both a tribute and a stimulus to the thousands of Notre Dame men listening. The now fa­mous music of the Moreau Choir brought reminiscences to these same listeners, and Father O'Hai-a, Frank Walker, James D. Hayes, '17, presi­dent of the Washington club, and President Voll contributed to the unit}' between the Universit}-, the Association and the widespread mem­bership. 
In addition to those who spoke over the air from the dinner in Washing­ton, the following were called upon and responded briefly: Senator Fred­erick Van Nuys, of Indiana; Con­gressman Samuel Pettingill, of South Bend; Bishop Gannon, of Erie, Penn­sylvania; Alonsignor Corrigan, rector of the Catholic University; Monsig­nor McCormack, former acting dean of the Catholic University; Rev. E. P. Cerrute, representing Georgetown University; Leo Crowley, director of the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor­poration; Ambrose O'Connell, execu­tive assistant of Postmaster General Farley; Judge Timothy Ansberrj-; Dr. James Dinnen, of Fort WajTie, Indiana; Art Bergman, athletic direc­tor at Catholic University, Fod Cot­ton, assistant coach at Catholic Uni­versity, and James E. CoUiflower, civic leader of Washington. 
Congressman John M. Costello, of California, and Congressman James 
 More Attendance 
P. B. Duffy, of New York, were among the many distinguished guests. 
More than 200 local radio stations participated in the observance. Notre Dame music filled the air, not only in this countrj' but abroad. Many Local Clubs and individual alumni speakers Joined in these local programs. 
Attendance at the meetings was far greater than in any previous year. The Notre Dam.e Club of Chicago was an easy first with the 850 who jammed the ballroom of the Knicker­bocker Hotel. New York, Cleveland, New Jersey, Peoria, Fort Wayne, are among the early returns repoi-ting record crowds. Many of the other Clubs, confining their meetings strict­ly to members, deser\-e as great rec­ognition for their turnouts. 
Newspaper clippings indicate that the publicity, both local and national, set a new high for space and signifi­cance. 
The universal nature of the ob­servance; its importance to Notre Dame; its pleasant features for alum­ni participating; its utilization for both publicity and promotional con­tacts, reached new peaks. 
Speakers from the campus were in unusually great demand. Among those who were guests at Club meet­ings in addition to Father O'Hara at Washington, were: Dean Thomas Konop at LaPorte; Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C, former Coach Tom Conley, and Coach D. Chet Grant at Cleveland; Regi.strar Robert Riordan. District Governor John Schindler and William Shakespeare, at Fort Wayne; John Scannell at St. Louis; William 
R. Dooley and John Michuta at De­troit ; Mike' Layden at Minneapolis: William Cemey and Martj* Peters at Peoria; Clarence "Pat" Manion at Chicago; George Keogan at Toledo: Professors Lawrence Baldinger and Andrew Boyle with a group of stu­dents from the Department of Phar­macy, at Indianapolis; and James E. Armstrong at Cincinnati. 
The Night is now on a solid, uni­versal, tremendously important basis. Clubs can do well to prepare for the Night by appointing committees well ahead. The Alumni Office has realized this year, as never before, that preparations on an intensive basis must be begun earlier. The Clubs have a record of cooperation to be proud of, and the path of prog­ress looks bright ahead. 
Succeeds Conley on 
Coaching Staff 
Johnny "One-Play" O'Brien, '31. assumed the end coach job at Notre Dame in mid-April, succeeding Tom Conley, who shortly before had re­signed to accept the appointment as athletic director and head football coach at John Carroll University, Cleveland. Johnny was head coach at St. Edward's Austin, Texas, in 1934 and 1935. Before that he was end coach at the Naval Academy. 
Johnny's football playing—and, in particular, his catch of the last-min­ute factor}' pass in the famous 12-6 Army game of 1928 (which gave him his "One-Play" handle)—made him a national figure. Coming from Los jVngeles, he won football monograms in 1928, 1929 and 1930. In addi­tion, he was captain of the track team and an expert hurdler and for a time held a world record in the high hurdles. 
GEORGE WIRRV DIES 
George Wirry, '36, of Racine, Wis­consin, senior manager of football this year, brother of Tony Wirry, '33, senior football manager in 1932. died in St. Joseph's hospital. South Bend, on March 27 as the result of compli­cations which developed following an operation for appendicitis. 
George's funeral in Racine was at­tended by a large group of Notre Dairie representatives, including Fa­ther Eugene Burke,, C.S.C, who preached the sermon, Elmer Layden, 
J. Arthur Haley, Francis "Mike" Lay­den, president of the student Mono­gram Club and the senior managers of the present year. Bill Gillespie, Paul Barker, James Quinn, James Burke, Kenneth Stillwagon, Al Tor­ribio and Bob Manning. 

NOTRE DAME MEN WIN 
Two Notre Dame men were suc­cessful in the recent state-wide Illi­nois primaries. John T. Dempsey, ex. '23, was nominated on the Republican ticket for congressman-at-large, and Arthur J. Bidwill, '26, was nomi­nated for state auditor on the same ticket. Both are from Chicago. John 
E. Cassidy, '17, of Peoria, was de­feated in the Democratic contest for lieutenant - governor after a close race. 
Republicans in Chicago nominated Edward B. Casey, '24, for the post of chief justice of the municipal court. Ed is at present an associate judge of the same court. 





The Part of Religion In Education 
BY REV. JOHN F. O'HARA, C.S.C, President of the University 
Father O'Hara, Speakins at the Golden Jubilee of the 
University of Chattanooga, on April 19, 1936, Empha­

sizes the Development of ALL the Powers of 
Allow me first to congratulate the University of Chattanooga on its Golden Jubilee, and to thank the em­inent scholar who presides over the University, President Guerry, for the privilege of having part in these dis­tinguished ceremonies. If public at­tention is centered in a special way on your institution this week, it is because the world is interested in what you are doing, and doing well, to serve God and country. 
President Guerry has asked me to speak to-day on a subject that is dear to my heart and his, a subject that seems to us important enough for us to devote our lives to it, namely the union of religion and education. I appreciate this opportunity all the more because of the honest differ­ences in our approach to the problem, diiferences which do not prevent us from having much in common. 
In any discussion which has possi­bilities of important misunderstand­ings, it is well to begin with a defini­tion of terms. Permit me, then, to introduce a few definitions. You may not accept them, or you may accept them only with reservations, but at least they will clarify discussion and lessen misunderstandings. 
Education Defined 

I like to think of education as the process by which all the powers of the individual are unfolded and de­veloped in preparation for life. I say "all the powers" and I mean to in­clude physical and moral, as well as intellectual faculties. Education, to be complete, must take cognizance of the whole man—not merely the intel­lectual and physical, not merely the intellectual and moral—certainly not merely the intellectual. Education should be properly proportioned — and for well-rounded development, we must regard carefully the relative im­portance of the faculties in relation to the end they are to serve in en­abling a man to reach his destiny. 
Of the many definitions of religion, I am attracted by the broad, compre­hensive statement that religion is the sum of all the ties that bind us to God. Whatever our notion of God, whatever diiferences of opinion we may have with regard to His nature, I find a common notion of God as a Supreme Being with whom I as an individual and we as a social group have certain relationships. Common­ly, the notion of God carries with it 
the idea of Creator—the originator of matter and of life, although in recent times there is controversy regarding direct and indirect action in creation. Commonly also, the notion of God has through history carried with it the notion of a Di\ine Providence, watch­ing over and protecting us, and fur­nishing us through an orderly uni­verse with what is needful to attain our destiny. Finally, to trace the no­tion of God once more through the historical notions of the deity, the idea of God has commonly connoted an eternal will to reward the good and punish the wicked in a life that begins with death. And as a result of these notions of God, here reduced to lowest terms, even primitive peo­ples have moral codes, the chief sanc­tion for which is placed in a life be­yond the grave. 

Belief In God Universal 

Belief in the existence of God is common enough to be called univer­sal, even though there has been great diversity in man's notions regarding the nature of God. The history of ancient paganism, including polythe­ism, goves abundant evidence of the corruption of the primitive revelation indicated in the Scriptures, as well as of the reason to which St. Paul appeals to prove to the Romans the existence of God. The purest notions of God's nature and attributes are 
FATHER O'HARA 



 Man 
found in ancient times in Judaism, the religion of the Hebrews; these teachings reach their fulfillment and perfection in Christianity. Similarly, the moral law which depends upon God reaches a high level in Judaism and a climax in Christ's law of charity. 
Have Close Relationship 

Now, if religion is the sum of all the ties that bind us to God, and if these ties include certain duties aris­ing out of our relationship to Him as His creatures, and to our neighbor as our fellow-creature under God, then it follows that religion is very closely bound up with our destiny. .A.nd if the purpose of education is to draw out our faculties in proportion to the end they sen'e in helping us attain our destiny, then it would appear that religion and education have by their nature a very close relationship. 
By definition I have, of course, used the term education in a broad sense, and have not confined it to the re­stricted but important field of class­room influence. The rights and duties of education, in fact, belong primar­ily to the parents who are responsible for bringing the child into the world. The Supreme Court of the United States, in the Oregon School Case, has defined that "The child is not the mere creature of the State" and the State can claim its right only as sec­ondary. Further, if the child has a supernatural destiny—as traditional­ly all religions seem to agree, and if that supernatural destiny is higher than the natural destiny of the child, then the first right of the child is to education for the supematuraal life. The family, to which the primary right of education belongs, is of course, an imperfect society, while the State and The Church are perfect societies, having full right to the means to reach their respective ends, namely the temporal and the spirit­ual welfare of the individuals who compose them. It follows, therefore, in practice, that the primary right of the parent may yield to the secondary rights of Church and State, whose collective eiforts may have to supply for the inadequacies of parental edu­cation. 
I have placed a good many condi­tions and suppositions in the course of this argument. Perhaps they are not necessaray. Perhaps I might bet­
(Continucd on Pane 224) 

The Notre Dame Alumnus May, 1936 
Tabb Memorial Is 


Planned 
Notre Dame Group Spon­
sors Birthplace Monument 
"The Forest" Memorial Association has been formed at Notre Dame for the purpose of erecting a monument, in Amelia Countj% Vir^nia, upon the site of the birthplace of the poet-priest, Father John Bannister Tabb. 
Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the Department of Journalism, is presi-
Tbe Proposed Tabb Monument 
dent of the Association, Father Eu­gene Burke, C.S.C, head of the De­partment of English, and T. Bowyer Campbell, acting dean of the College of Arts and Letters, are vice-presi­dents, and Professor F. W. Ker\'ick, head of the Department of Architec-­ture, is secretary and treasurer. 
The purpose and aims of the -Asso­ciation are explained as follows, in a recently-mailed letter: 
"Of "The Forest" home not a trace now remains, the surrounding land­scape is strangely altered, and soon all knowledge of the memorable spot will have vanished from the minds of liiing men. We think that now is the time to save it from obli^aon. 
"It is the hope of "The Forest" Memorial Association to have the monument in place before the end of the approaching Summer, and also to be able to provide thereafter for its proper care and protection. It is our hope also that this monument •will not only preserve knowledge of an his­toric spot and the memory of one of America's great and good men, but that it •will also be truly representa­tive of the affection and admiration felt for Father Tabb by thousands still li^ring and glad, •we trust, to share in this creditable undertaking." 
The Associations plans to raise a fund of one thousand dollars to carry out the project. The Association membership is open. Any contribu­tor will be enrolled as a member simply by mailing his request to F. 
W. Kervick, secretary, Notre Dame, Indiana. 


Sifts 
X^ne Univenily aclcnowleaga with, aeep qraliluoe lite foUowimj glfb: 
From a FRIEND of the University: For basic research in Economics ..^45,000 
From another FRIEND: Annual payment on Library fund for Medieval Studies 1,000 (This fund now stands at ^15,256.20) 
From MAURICE OUIROLL, BArch. 1919: 
To establish an armual prize for an ecclesiastical design submitted by a student in the Department of Archi­tecture 25 
From E. M. MORRIS, LL.B. 1906: To assist needy students 400 
For the FATHER HUDSON SCHOLARSHIP IN APOLOGETICS: Previously acknowledged 70 An alumnus, '11 40 
For the FATHER CAVANAUGH SCHOLARSHIP IN APOLOGETICS: An alumnus, '08 100 An alumnus, '09 60 
Note : In response to various inquiries, it should be stated that the schol­arships in Apolosretics. first announced in the March issue of the ALUMNUS. are established to enable the University to brinff together a group of college graduates for a two-year graduate course, designed to train lay Catholic writers to present Catholic principles to the American public A current scholarship for two years can be established for $1500: a perpetual foundation for such a scholarship, for S15.000. The establishment of two current scholarships, paid in full, was announced in the April ALUMNUS. Ten such scholarships are needed. 

3S'eeds 
FOR THE DEP.^RT^^ENT OF AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING 
1. One fan for the wind-tunnel (6 foot; 4 blade; 
adjustable pitch)  ^ 480  
2. One integrating machine (K K E)  350  
3. Five 72" x 36" layout tables (material only)  60  
4. One mercury barometer  50  
5. Two pitot-static tubes, calibrated.  60  
6. Ten precision mercury thermometers (0-250° F.)  50  
7. One oxygen pressure regulator (3000 lbs.; 50 lbs.)  20  
8. One acetylene pressure regulator (350 lbs.; 30 lbs.)  15  
9. One calculating machine  (Marchand)  350  
10. One 150 hp. water-brake dynamometer  1,500  
11. One 150 hp. electric dynamometer  ­  3,500  
12. Two stop-watches (1/100 minute)  50  
13. One stop-watch (3 second dial)  50  
FOR THE DEPARTMENT  OF METALLURGY  
1. Precision dilatometer  $ 1,800  
2. Metal Working lathe  ..„  800  
3. Shaper  1,100  
4. Microcharacter, with Microscope  500  
5. One Fellowship in Metallurgy (each year)  750  
6. Foundation for such Fellowship  15,000  

^ ^ ^. C^,'a/i.^. </ c. 
May. 1936 The Notre Dame Alunnnus 


The American Creed: ^^Malcing Good # / 
BY JAMES E. MCCARTHY. Dean, Colleae of Commerce 
An Adequate Wage for the Working Man Is His Moral Right and. In Addition to That, It Is Extreme­ly Sound Business, According to Dean McCarthy 
Of late, a suspicion has gained some considerable currency that the economic philosophies of laissez-faire, which has been the hub from which our many-spoked wheel of industry revolved, has some serious and major imperfections. 
Our current and unhappy economic plight can be traced, according to its critics, directly to laissez-faire phi­losophies. And since, say the critics, these policies have been found want­ing, there should be substituted in their stead, a planned economy that will more perfectly promote the com­mon good. 
The American common good dif­fers, I believe, from the common good that is in vogue in other older na­tions. In our country, any appraisal of the common good or any attempt to define or apply the phrase, must immediately take into account the ir­revocable heritage and conviction of every American that "equal oppor­tunities for all" must not be handi­capped or qualified by voluntary or legislative pronouncements, eve n though they be designed for the com­mon good. In short "rugged indi­vidualism" must not be checked or placed under restraint. 
Summary of Civilization 

Our whole civilization in America is summarized in the phrase, "making good"; and "making good" implies economic advancement. It represents accomplishments in terms of money; it represents the acquisition of mate­rial things; it levels the mountains and raises the valleys; it reaffirms the tmism that ours is a land of op­portunity for evei-yone; that family, birth, tradition, position are at best but dubious assets in the process of accumulating money; that learning, integrity, skill are potent assets only when they bear a profitable relation­ship to money gathering; and "mak­ing good" is the ineradicable birth­mark of all Americans, no matter what the estate they may have been bom to, and "making good" is the ever-present and grinning satyr that con­tinually beckons; it is the perfection of mediocrity in standards. And from whence such standards? 
As a young nation, of humble, di­verse, and polyglot origin, sprung 
(.4 RADIO ADDRESS) 
DEAN- MCCARTHY 

from infancy to maturity without benefit of the stops at the tender, ac­quisitive and adolescent way-stations, we had no background of seasoned stabilit}- that was the heritage of the European countries. Our original colonists and the vast majority of our immigi-ation were at best peasant, or middle-class oppoi-tunists. What they sought in ."America was an opportun­ity to work, but with their economic destinies free from restraint that was imposed upon them by the earlier suc­cessful opportunists in Europe. When the happy uprising against his maj­esty, his crown, and his dignitj- was undertaken in 1776, the principal factors that motivated the revolution­ists were economic, with slight over­tones and shadings of patriotism. And thus unloosed from the imposts and taxes of the Sovereign George, that had deterred commercial opportunism, we were permitted to exercise repub­lican opportunism without fear of restraint and stoppages from the mother country. 
The Creed of Franklin 

Franklin, who had no illusions re­specting the humble root from which he sprang, preached opportunism, and "making good" in unctuous phrase­ologj' appropriate to the times. And Jefferson, who represented opportun­ism realized, incorporated the "mak­ing good" phrase in the Constitution when he affirmed the doctrine of "all men being equal." Our national his­tory records the reaching out and ac­quiring of territorial places that op­portunities for "making good" be available for all. The Evangelic reli­gions, our literature, our policies, our national educational psychology, our politics — in fact, everything that touches us even remotely reflects the cult of "making good." 
Prom infancy on, we have been re­galed with tales of conquest and "making good." Prom pulpits, lecture platforms, congressional halls, class­rooms, magazines dedicated to oppor­tunism, luncheon clubs, biographies of American distinguidos, the cult of "making good" has been the only American trait of character that has found root. Its possibilitiy of attain­ment has been so widely accepted that we have attracted opportunists from all the world to our shores and, despite the increasing difficulty to attain the objective "making good," the belief that opportunities for op­portunists are still within the grasp of each of us, is the most firmly im­planted doctrine in the minds of the citizens of these beleagured states. 
Relative Economic Aspirations 

It is fundamental that we all have relative economic aspirations. The workman who earns 40 cents an hour on the automobile-assembly line as­pires towards his inspector's job, the inspector towards the foreman's job, the foreman towards the superintend­ent's job, and so on. The bookkeeper believes he can do a better job of ac­counting than the comptroller; the copywriter dreams of the day when he will supplant the advertising man­ager; the bank clerk visualizes the day when his talent will receive rec­ognition and he will be made a vice-president; the college instructor dreams of his elevation to a full pro­fessorship; the minister delights in his vision of a "call" to a larger city; the banker thinks of mergers, unlim­ited absorption of his flotations; the manufacturer of plants operating 24 hours a day; the storekeeper of more and better customers; the ship oper­ator of more cargoes and passengers to carrj-. And all of these dreams. 
honest and legitimate though they be, are founded upon the "making good" cult -n-hich is translatable into terms of either more earnings or more profits, or more salary, or more com­missions. 
The tempo of American civilization does not make for clearly defined ob­jectives as associated with the "mak­ing good" cult; rather, they are hazy, elusive objectives that become more attainable and apparent only as earn­ings increase. To expect to find eco­nomic idealism in the drop-forge de­partment of an industrial plant vrould be as fruitless as expecting to find political idealism among the various state legislatures. But with each ad­vance in wages or eai-nings, the American is inspired to be discontent with his newly attained position and his eyes are directed towards the suc­cessful opportunist occupying the rung in the ladder next highest to his own. If a sense of futility, or more markedly, a knowledge of his own limitations to progress economically beyond his current station possesses him, he consoles himself with the hope that his sons and daughters will attain that goal which was denied to him. And this is the stuff that American dreams are made from, 
A Decent Livelihood 
But the majority of our people, being but a few generations removed from the harsher economic conditions that prevail in older countries, are not entirely blinded to the necessity for economic stability in their own lives and families; this was the reason for their emigration to America. Spe­cifically, they want work that is steady, work that will permit them to live in a decent house, to eat decent food regularly, to wear appropriate clothes, to educate their children and provide them \nth the proper medical, dental, recreational care that Ameri­can civilization suppo.'ses; to own an automobile, a radio and household ap­pliances; to take a vacation each year, to create a saWngs account, to buy insurance; and finally, such re­wards from their work as will permit them to view ^\•ithout fear and trepi­dation. These factors, elemental though they may be, motivate every­one regardless of the economic posi­tion occupied, and regardless of the ladder-mng upon which they may be perched. 
These expectancies, comparative though they may be, ai-e basic things that apply to all of us, and the foun­dation of our continued success as an industrial nation depends in large measure upon industry's ability to provide those rudimentary necessities that our nation's founders, states­men, spokesmen, prophets, and sooth­sayers have promised us. If oppor­tunism and occasions for "making good" are to be withdrawn and de­The Notre Dame Alumnus 
nied, a critical citizenrj' will rebel 
lustily. It is only when there is a 
frustration of economic expectancies 
that bitterness and troubles of a ser­
ious nature arise or are encountered. 
Unfortunately, it begins to look as 
though the wells of opportunity for 
"making good" are drying up. There 
has, within the lifetimes of the aver­
age American adult, been droughts 
of major significance in 1897, 1903. 
1909, 1913, 1921 and 1929. And 
with these succeeding droughts there 
has been bitterness and suffering 
more severe and long-lived than pre­
vious experiences. 
Our national leaders now find themselves in the position of prophets who cannot deliver—instead of full time employment for everj' workman, two chicken in everj- pot, and two cars in every garage—^we have mis­ery, suffering, unemployment and taxes that are without parallel in our national histoiy. 
There is now a widespread skepti­cism respecting the goodness and \-ir­
tue of our national economic phi­losophy. 
If out of the welter of conflicting, nebulous, and none-the-less sincere proposals designed to alleviate the economic ills that have been plaguing our people for the past six years, we can dismiss the panaceas proposed by the noisy fringe of pseudo-economists —I mean the "share-the-wealthers,"— the Townsendites, and their ilk—and turn to the matured, sage counsel of certain of the Roman Catholic Popes —to the great French moi-al economist, Villeneuve-Bargemont — to the Eng­lish economist of the late '90's, Hob­son—to some contemporari' thinkers, economists and industrialists, Kyan, Brookings, Hemy Ford, I think we would find slirewd diagnosis of our economic ailments and a simple pre­scription for their cure. 
Distribution Is The Problem 
Certainly no intelligent observer of contemporary business ^vill take issue with the fact that our principal prob­lem in business today is to success­fully, that is profitably, dispose of the units we are so beautifully equipped to produce in our manufacturing plants and factories. Similarly, this distribution is not realizable except­ing the great bulk of our people have sufficient earning power and earnings to enable them to buy the products we so temptingly and alluringly so­licit them to buy. 
We, meaning too many of us, on the one hand make a major contribu­tion to this lack of buying power through the payment of low wages, and then complain bitterly of re­stricted markets, lack of buying pow­er and over-production. 
Shall we say, as to the worker— "That if he receives a wage that will May, 1936 
prevent his dying of hunger, he ought 
to he satisfied." 
Or shall we subscribe to Dr. Ryan's 
idea of a decent livelihood which he 
explains by saying: "He (the worker) 
has a right to so much of the requi­
sites of sustenance as will enable him 
to live in a manner worthy of a hu­
man being. The elements of decent 
livelihood may be described as food, 
clothing, and housing, sufiicient in 
quantitj' and qualitj- to maintain the 
worker in normal health, in element­
ary comfort. And in an environment 
suitable to the protection of morality 
and religion; sufficient provision for 
the future to bring elementarj' con­
tentment and security against sick­
ness, accident, and invalidity; and 
sufficient opportunities of recreation, 
social intercourse, education, church 
membership to conserve health and 
strength, and to render possible in 
some degree the exercise of the 
higher faculties." 
Even if this type of moral exhoi-ta­tion leave us unmoved we should be able to comprehend from a selfish point of view that equitable wages and earnings on reasonably high levels is the open sesame to the busi­ness success that we pursue with such ardor. New avenues and fields of exploitation and eventual sales are ours if residing along these avenues and in the fields are people earaing the wherewithal to purchase the prod­ucts we desire to sell them. 
High Wages Good Policy 
-^nd this policy of high wages, sub­scribed to by such eminently success­ful concerns as the Ford Motor Com­pany, Endicott-Johnson, Fels-Naph­tha, and unfortunately too few others, is a form of self-insurance that these concerns are underwriting, with them­selves, as well as their employees, the beneficiaries. 
The alternatives to any plans de­signed to increase purchasing power through the payment of higher wages "are those lugubrious schemes that ai'e being dignified by too many people 
today. 
If there is to be surcease from the 
multiplicity of taxes whose burden is 
already becoming unbearable; if we 
hope to return to a sensible form of 
balanced governmental expenditures; 
if we cry for relief from the medi­
cine-show economists who infest the 
nation like so many snake-oil ped­
dlers; if our sympathy for the unem­
ployed can instead be made into a 
job; if the fears of inflation, dicta­
torships, civil disturbances, strikes, 
lock-outs, hunger-parades, revolutions, 
government ownership of business— 
yes, even the continuance of this 
nation as an institution of democracy 
is to be averted, it can only be 
averted by providing employment to 
our workers—and the profits will be 
(Continued on Papre 225) 




The President's Page 
This is my last Page, as President of the Alumni Association. 
Time goes as quickly in this job as in others, and much that was to have been done this year is still un­done. 
My consoling conviction is that the continuity of our progi-ess as an As­sociation has never depended upon one man, but has absorbed the mea­ger contributions we may have been able to make as officers. We are like relay runners. Our record improves as we effect a smoothness in passing the presidential baton. If I have ac­complished anything, and I believe the record justifies some modest as­sumption of progress, it was because I came into the race with a momen­tum already existing. And I leave it in the hope that my successor will pick up his turn with no loss of the lead that was given to me. The Nom­inating Committees have vei-y ably guai-anteed the ability of the succeed­ing president, once in the running. 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME 
Universal Notre Dame Night was typical of many things. 
First, to me, it was representative of the way in which the Club and in­dividual alumni have responded this year to our alumni program. 
Next, it exemplified the far-reach­ing effects in everj' way that this re­sponse, when given so freely and ef­fectively, can achieve. None of you can have listened to the radio—na­tional or local; none of you can have attended a Notre Dame Club meet­ing, large or small; none of you can read the results in this issue of the ALUMNUS; and none of you could have followed your local press, with­out realizing what the development of such a Night has meant to you as alumni identified with a University such as ours. And of course you re­alize what this power, mutually uti­lized, has done and can do for Notre Dame. Never before have the fac­tors of University, Association, alum­ni, press, radio and friends been so generally organized and so brilliantly utilized. 
More typical of Notre Dame, how­ever, is that before the echoes of this great observance had died away, the distant rumble of another great Com­mencement was heard. 
Universal Notre Dame Night and Commencement Receive Special Attention 

COMMENCEMENT 
That Commencement is now our problem, though a pleasant one. 
It marks the end of another Associ­ation year, at which time we have annually taken stock of our progress. I shall not anticipate that annual practice, except to make a few sug­gestions which will, I believe, enhance the value of the inventory. 
Any action which the Board takes in response to membership sugges­tions must almost automatically come in any gi-oup from from this annual Commencement. Hence, I urge gen­eral attendance of the alumni. The hospitality of the University is tradi­tional for us. The new developments on the campus, making it a spiritual retreat, an intellectual storehouse and a physical playgi'ound, in one must provide an almost in-esistible attrac­tion for us. The brilliance of this year's Commencement program is in itself magnetic, with the world fa­mous Mayo brothers, the brilliant churchman. Archbishop Mooney, and Francis Garvan, distinguished and admired head of the Chemical Foun­dation, providing the nucleus. 
ANNUAL CLUB COUNCIL 
Local Alumni Clubs will again be asked to send representatives to the Council of these delegates, where this year, above any previous year, I be­lieve a wealth of experience awaits those at ending from which tremen­dous factors for Club progress can be derived. Who can look at the Chi­cago Club Directory; who can read of the clubroonis of the Joliet Club; who can recall the retreat of the Cleveland Club; who can remember the pre-game smokers of the St. Joe Valley Club; who can study the Club-undergraduate agreement of the New Jersey groups; and who can summar­ize the many innovations and achieve­ments of the Clubs as reflected in the pages of this 1935-36 volume of the ALUMNUS and not foresee the sig­nificance of this 1936 Council? 
While no definite plans have been announced, it is the hope of the As­sociation that this Commencement, with its very outstanding and appro­priate program, will be the occasion for attendance of the many outstand­ing graduates of the Notre Dame College of Science and pre-Medic courses. 

CLASS REUNIONS 
Class Reunions, while subordinated at Notre Dame to a fellowship and a corresponding program of activities that have not observed Class lines, are nevertheless as important as they are pleasant and enjoyable. The Re­union groups this year are remark­ably strong in leadership and person­nel, and I urge the members of these Classes to take advantage of the cir­cumstances. 
I am convinced that an understand­ing of the aims and the problems of the Alumni Association is not only the first step to a satisfactory solu­tion of our difficulties but practical­ly the only one which is essential. 
Nowhere, and at no time, have I met an alumnus who, when informed of our situation and our objectives, was not willing to contribute his share of effort. 
That is why, retiring from this office, I feel that the greatest favor I can do for the man who succeeds me is to bring together for this an­nual check-up on the state of the As­sociation the maximum number of our members. 

INCREASED INTEREST 
There is evidence during this year that the ALUMNUS has attracted more evidenced interest. 
There is indication that the Clubs have been more active and their ac­tivities better supported. 
The Governors of the Districts have mingled more and been more active in the organization of the Clubs. 
There remains now this Commence­ment, at which time we will look upon the concrete work of the year. I be­lieve it is good. I believe it can be infinitely better. But it can only be so through your understanding, and the cooperation which follows it. 
It is your Association—organized by you and, something too often lost sight of, for you. I have discovered as President that my ability to serve your interests is definitely limited by your understanding of what those in­terests are and the corresponding en­thusiasm and support essential to their realization. 
That is why I urge you so sincere­ly to be present at the Commence­ment exercises and the 68th annual meeting of the Association. 
(sig.) Bernard J. Voll, '17, President of the Association. 

222 The Notre Dame Alumnus May. 1936 

BY JOHN J. LECHNER, '37 


CAMPUS NOTES 
WOODLAND SPRITES 
Notre Dame's durable, 60-minute AU-American halfback, Bill Shake­speare, played through three seasons of intercollegiate football without ever sustaining an injurj' serious enough to have time taken out for him. In the various stadia through­out the land Shakespeare gained ground and applause but never did he head for himself that admiring yet regretful cheer that accompanies the departure of an injured and coui-age­ous warrior from the field of battle. One Sunday last month, however. Shakespeare left his battleground in­jured, yet rather than the groans of mighty crowd he heard only the sound of a few feminine soprano sighs. 
It happened, not one night, but on a Sunday afternoon. Shakespeare, in companj' with his roommate. Jack Gleason, and Tony Mazziotti, who played right half last Fall, embarked with some St. Marj''s girls, on a pic­nic along the St. Joe river near the College. After a dainty collation had been ser\'ed the suggestion was made that Shakespeare should show the girls how an All-American halfback did his stuif. Mazziotti and Gleason volunteered to act as stooges. Shake­speare took an imaginary pass from center, started to run, tripped over a root and fell down. Gleason took Mazziotti to the ground with him in an enthusiastic block. The results: Shakespeare, a severely injured right leg, necessitating infirmary treatment plus crutches for the next few weeks: Gleason, a sprained back and broken rib; Mazziotti, a kick in the face. 
ON WITH THE SHOW 
In keeping with the best traditions of the theater the Bengal Boxing show, sponsored by the Scholastic and held last month, moved with swiftness and despatch. The climax of the evening was a burlesque wres­tling match staged by Cy Conner, of West Springfield, Massachusetts, the "Barefoot Wonder," and Nick Tan­credi, of Mechanicsville, New York, the "Son of Kong." Extensively bal­lyhooed by the Scholastic the match almost had to be good. Conner and Tancredi came through with spar­kling performances, everj'one laughed heartily, and that, as far as the audi­ence was concerned, was that. 
The real story, however, occurred the night before the bouts. It was 
7:20 and Conner was sitting in his room. He switched on the radio and tuned in a dance orchestra. Suddenly: 
"We interrupt our program, ladies and gentlemen, to take you directly into the flood area. West Springfield, Massachusetts, is the latest city to be inundated in New England. John Blank is waiting for you there and he will describe just what's happen­ing. . . " 
"This is John Blank speaking. I'm being rowed slowly down the main street of what was only this morning a thriving little community. . , And now let's go into the residential sec­tion. Let's see, this is Lowell street (Conner paled. He lived on Lowell sti-eet!). Thei-e is a fine home or was a fine home, it is completely. . . " 
A bell rang sharply. The lights went out in Conner's room and the i-adio became silent. It was 7:25, time for night prayer, and all elec­tricity, according to custom, had been shut off in the hall. 
BLESSED EVENT 
The record books were clean. As yet the new infirmarj-, completed last month, was without its first patient. Bertha, the cat, long a favorite in the old infirmary, asked for—and got— a place in the new order of things. A half an hour later it had happened and the infirmary had had its first patient—not a ease of cold, of hives, of cough, but of obstetrics. Bertha had become a mother. She and her litter were taken care of tenderly by the good Sisters at the infirmary and as we are going to press both mother and children are progressing in sen­sational fashion, which is only nat­ural with the facilities of a $250,000 infirmarj- at their disposal. 

DANCING OUT 
The white-tie-and-tails boys had quite a work-out this month. Accord­ing to the general consensus everj'­one had a good time during the Easter vacation. Returning to the campus the social were exposed to the delights of the K. of C. Formal, the Engineer's Formal and the Monogram. Ball, not to mention the number one social event of the season, the Senior Ball, the last-named with music by Freddy Martin's orchestra. We sup­pose that dancing your way out of Notre Dame life is as pleasant a method as possible with only the Commencement exercises needed to make it official, but we'll wager that a lot of the boys will find it hard to say good-bye. 
Incidentally, why don't some of 
you alumni do something about that good-bye you said a few years back? Drop around at Commencement time and meet your old buddies. Bring your golf clubs and see what you can do about the local classy lay-out. If you want a 136 golfing partner, mail your requests to the .A.lumni office. 
THE MONTH IN BRIEF 
Speakers of the month were Dr. -A.rthur Haas, Vienna physicist, who spoke on fundamental ideas of mod­ern physics; Dean A. A. Potter of the Purdue engineering school; H. 
W. Dunbar, ^^ce-president of a large metallurgical concern who spoke to local metallurgists; Francis Sheed, prominent New York Catholic pub­lisher, his subject: "Piers Plowman and the Modei-n Dilemma," (Mr. Sheed is the founder of the Catholic EWdence Guild in England and Aus­tralia) ; Henry Heimann, executive of the National Credit Association of New York City, who addressed stu­dents of the College of Commerce. . . 
The Salvi Harp Ensemble pre­sented a concert in Washington Hall. . . . The baseball film issued as a pro­motional measure, "Take Me Out to the Ball Game," was shown here. . . There is no longer a street car ser­vice connecting St. Mary's with South Bend .. . A bus line has been estab­lished . . . An article by the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, now studying in Louvain, Belgium, ap­peared in the Commonweal, prominent Catholic periodical ... . Professor Raymond Hoyer wrote "Youth De­mands -A.dventure" which appeared in Leisure . . . We think it peculiarly appropriate that an article by a pro­fessor should appear in a publication of that name. . . . 
MORE BRIEFS 
Father O'Hara was one of the prin­cipal speakers at the University of Chattanooga's golden jubilee . . . Louis and Don Hickey, A.B. students from South Bend, were honored at a father and son luncheon given by the Rotarians .. . As members of the "Hickey Baseball Team" they, with their four brothers and their father Tom Hickey, had a table all to them­selves. . . . 
Morrie Hertel, a senior in the Architecture school, won a prize of §200 in a contest for a design for small homes conducted by the Indian­
(Continueil on Paffe 2:i8) 

May. 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 223 
BY JOSEPH S. PETRITZ, '32 

» » » 

Director of Athletic Publicity 

ATHLETICS 
If the Notre Dame spring sports teams continue at the blistering pace they have set for themselves in early season contests, they may approach or beat the .946 winning percentage of the fencing, indoor track, and bas­ketball teams. 
• BASEBALL 
The "Two-Minute Men" of football, transplanted to the diamond are liv­ing up to their tradition for dallying as long as possible before winning. In the opener with Toledo it was the seventh inning before Wally From-hart, third baseman, and quarterback with the Two-Minute Men, exploded a home run with two mates on base for a 7 to 6 victor}'. 
The Irish just kept pecking away, aided by a home run with two on by Captain Frankie Gaul, catcher, and quarterback for the Two-Minute Men, to defeat Chicago, 8 to 2. 
They returned to form against Purdue, waiting until the fifth to overcome a 12 to 5 lead by scoring 11 times on six hits and six errors to go ahead 16 to 11 and win finally by 18 to 15. The thermometer read 39 degrees and you can't blame the pitchers for not cutting loose, or the defenses for dropping some of those stinging shots, 34 of which—17 for each team—went for hits. 
It was against Illinois, which Notre Dame beat 2 to 1 last year, that the Two-Minute Men came into their real stride. Andy Pihiey, who was the greatest Two-Minute man of all in the Ohio State game last fall, waited until two were out in the ninth with the bases full and a count of three balls and one strike before he blasted the next pitch, the proverbial 3 and 1 cripple, to the fence in left center. It was a home run without any doubt, but it was scored, according to the rules, as a single. 
TRACK 
Had points been given at the Drake relays for team performances, Notre Dame would have been the champion, a real distinction when it is consid­ered that the Irish entered only 17 men out of 2,000 in the Drake games. The Irish placed in five of the six relay events they entered. No other team placed in more than three. In­cluded in these five places were two firsts, a second, a third, and a fourth. 
Both firsts are credited to the sprint relay team composed of Char­ley Jordan, Jack Frawley, Eddie Boyle, and Bill Clifford. This quartet, e.xhibiting near-perfect baton passing, won the 440-yard relay in 41.8 sec­onds and the 880-yard event in 1:27.8, the latter breaking the 15-year old Notre Dame record of 1:29.4 set in 1921 by Desch, Meredith, Ficks and Montague. 
The Irish mile relay team lost a heart-breaking race to Northwestern in 3:19.8, one-tenth second faster than the Notre Dame record. The Wildcats won by an eyelash. So close was the finish, in fact, that the Notre Dame foursome was taken to the victory stand and was given the gold medals for first, when the judges re­versed their decision and Northwest-em was granted the title. 
Notre Dame also did well to take third in the two-mile relay behind the strong teams of Kansas State and Indiana. Indiana, Dx-ake, and Wiscon­sin beat Notre Dame to the tape in the four mile relay, the great Indiana quartet of milers knocking five sec­onds off the old meet I'ecord to win in 17:40.2. 
Capt. George Meagher provided the inspiration a captain should provide by making one of the best jumps of his career on Friday to take second in the broad jump at 24 feet 9 inches. He was beaten by an inch by King of Pittsburgh (Kans.) Teachers. Meag­her came back on Saturday to take third in the hop, step, and jump at 46 feet o'/z inches. He would have won both events at the Penn relays. 
Don Elser, tired after his decathlon performance at the Kansas relays the pre\'ious week, took second to Sam Francis of Nebraska in the shot put with a toss of 48 feet. Francis won at 50 feet 7 inches. Elser took fifth in the Kansas Relays the first time he competed in the deeathalon. Encour­aging is the fact that he was strong in what were believed to be his weak events, and weak in what were sup­posed to be his strong events. Coach John Nicholson has been working El­ser, naturally, on his weaknesses, and he will develop his strong events once the Gary giant has mastered the fun­damentals of such events as the jav­elin throw, high jump, hurdles, and pole vault. 
• GOLF 
The golfers swept their first three matches with Washington U., W/z to 6%; Chicago, UY2 to 3%; and Illi­nois, 17 to 10. In the Illinois match Capt. Win Day, Jr., shot a 70, tying the amateur course record, in the morning doubles, then, in the after­noon, suffered a 3 to 0 defeat, the first of his three-year career at Notre Dame. Bill Taylor, Detroit sophomore, beat his captain's mark in the singles. 
shooting a 69 for a new amateur rec­ord for the William J. Bnrke-Notre Dame course. A recent addition to the team was Bob Wilke, probable varsity left halfback, who packed three challenge matches in three days into his program to make the team. 
TENNIS 
The tennis team, greatly hampered by bad weather and inadequate in­door facilities, lost its opener to Illi­nois, 6 to 0, but came right back to defeat Detroit, 6 to 3, and Bradley, 6 to 3. 
FENCING 
The fencing team continues to make news, although its dual match season ended a month ago. Co-Capts. Carlos de Landero and Kevin Kehoe tied for first in the senior sabre com­petition for the Illinois division of the Amateur Fencers League of America, Kehoe winning the gold medal, 5 to 4, in the fence-off. Through the kindness of the Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley, Kehoe was able to compete in the national champion­ships in New York. 
Notre Dame also dominated the Illinois divisional junior champion­ships. Coach Pedro de Landero sent the boys to Chicago with the advice that they "get some experience for ne.\t year." So Bob Seco and Jack McAuliffe tied for the divisional epee title, and Seco went to the sabre finals. McAuliffe won the "sudden death" finish in the epee, settling the tie, 1 to 0. 
National Catholic Interscholastic 
Director of Athletics Elmer F. Layden and Track Coach Nicholson have made a joint announcement that the third annual Notre Dame Nation­al Catholic Interscholastic track and field championships will be held at Notre Dame Commencement week-end, June 0 and 6. Cooperation of the alumni in increasing the entry list and the class of this meet is expected. The idea has clicked from the start, and last year's meet was a great im­provement over the very successful inaugural championships. Each city presents its own individual problems, and in many cases alumni can help the schools who would like to compete by helping to solve the transportation or financial questions. Information on the meet is available through the de­partment of sports publicity. Coach Nicholson, or Herbert E. Jones, ticket manager. 
RELIGION IN EDUCATION 
(Continued from Pase 217) 

ter have used assumptions. This is neither the time nor the place to prove the necessary steps involved in a full treatise on the rights and du­ties of religious education—to show proof for instance, of the existence of God and of the supernatural life, the immortality of the soul, the divine authority behind the Ten Command­ments, the existence of grace, the effi­cacy of prayer, the reality of eternal reward and punishment, and, for Christians, the historical proof of the Divinity of Christ and the conse­quent divine authority of Christ's teachings. I may be pardoned for as­suming that this audience, present here today to congratulate a Christ­ian college on its Golden Jubilee, is essentially a Christian audience or at least a religious audience, and sees eye to eye with me in the central re­ligious truths I have indicated as forming the framework of supernat­ural religion. I assume, legitimately I am sure, that you are just as inter­ested as I am in having the schools of our country produce virtuous men and good citizens—and if these terms are sjTionymous, as I maintain that 
they are, I still want them considered separately and in that order, for I believe that it is important, in these days of absolutism, to insist on the dignity of the individual as an indi­vidual before we consider his duty to the State. 
No Edufiation Without Religion 

With these assumptions, then, I may set down as a principle what was stated some fifteen years ago by a certain state university in the an­nouncement of its new school of relig­ion, namely, that "There is no such thing as Education without Religion." Such education is not the complete process of developing the faculties of youth, and it fails in the most im­portant particular, for a man's spir­itual good is to his temporal welfare as eternity is to time. 
I have spoken of the need to recog­nize the dignity of the indiv^idual, and I have shown you a reason why. Let us now see a more fundamental reas­on. To return again to suppositions, if we believe that man has a destiny to everlasting life for which this vis­ible existence is but a preparation, it follows as the night the day that man has a right to know how to reach that life and a right to the discipline and the aids of divine grace that will as­sist him to the right living essential to his attainment of that supernat­ural life. 
So much for the primary rights of the individual. What of the state and of the temporal welfare of its citi­zens? These also are served best by holding strictly to the religious ideal 
of the dignity of the individual whose final destiny is supernatural. Where else can we find imyielding resistance to absolutism? This pernicious theory of government, absolutism, shows it­self principally today in the extreme of Fascism and Communism—both of which are opposed to the liberty which we Americans cherish as dear­ly as life. In Fascism the totalitarian state makes national aggrandizement supreme, suppresses the ballot, free speech and free press, places its sub­jects under a form of martial law, terrorism by espionage, and turns even unformed children over to army drill-mentors. While we, as loyal citizens, are willing to grant extra­ordinary powers to our government, and to undergo unwonted hardships in times of national emergency, we resent and we reject at other times, such intrusion on individual liberty as the fascist state holds necessary to its existence. 
(I would point out in particular to the defenders of academic freedom that the doctrine of the supremacy of the soul is a necessary postulate to their contention. Without a soul, and a free soul, there is no principle in which free speech may inhere. De­termination and freedom are contra­dictory terms.) 
Under Communism things are even worse. In theory and in practice we see it today where Communism reigns, to the restrictions imposed by Fas­cism are added the denial of the right to hold property, the denial of the right to worship God according to the dictates of conscience the denial of the family to recognition as the pri­mary unit of society. 
Religion Against Absolutism 

Against the encroachments of abso­lutism, only religion, with its affirma­tion of the rights of the individual soul, stands the test of history as the one universally effective barrier. Small wonder Communism calls relig­ion the opium of the people and em­barks on the impossible task of driv­ing it from the human heart. 
Religion gives distinction to the in­dividual by teaching man that he comes from God. More than that, Christianity tells hira that by grace he may become the adopted son of God. What inspiration that has meant to the race of mankind we can judge from all that is best in literature, in music, in art, in life itself. AVhat we popularly call culture is the refine­ment of civilization, and the history of culture for the last 19 centuries shows that man, inspired by faith in a supernatural destiny, can reach glorious heights. WTien we are sick­ened by daily newspaper accounts of kidnaping robber}', murder, and lust; when we contemplate the homes brok­en by selfishness, \rith no regards to the rights of children; when our rec­reational reading offends by indec­ency, obscenity, and low ideals; when the blaring of jazz interrupts our slumbers—when, in short, we are disgusted ^\•ith the coarseness, the bad manners, the licentiousness and depraved taste of the blatant element in the present generation, we can turn back to the art of Raphael and Michelangelo and Cimabue and Dona­tello, to the music of Mozart and Bach and Palestrina, to the poetry of Dante and Shakespeare and even to our own Longfellow, and we can be­lieve once more in the dignity of the human race and the possibility of its improvement. 
High Standards to Emulate 

I have no particular quarrel with the modem sociology and its planned approach to the problem of human suffering, and I will be among the first to offer congratulations if it suc­ceeds. But it has high standards to emulate, set by the men and women of the last 19 centuries wha have made the record of Christian charity the brightest page in the history of civilization. 
It is a commonplace of contempor­ary civilization to call ugly things by nice names. We fool ourselves easily in this age that is not overburdened with deep thinking. Of all these terms the one I like least is "Euthanasia," commonly called "mercy-killing." It is a contradiction in terms. Mercy does not kill. It alleviates. It is a Chris­tian virtue shown to those in misfor­tune, and it is one of those virtues of which it may be said in utter truth that "more blessed is he that giveth than he that receiveth." When mod­ern sociology can brighten the world with the virtue of mercy as Christian charity has done, then there will be no conditions placed in the welcome the world will give it. 
What has all this to do with relig­ion and education? Only this: If the purpose of education is to train a man to live, should it not be expected to do more than train a man for a job? Research and the advancement of learning are proper aims of educa­tion, truly, but they are not the lot of the average man. No, for a well-rounded life, for a happy life, for a life that the world will bless, there must be in education an idealism and a training to virtue, the highest form of which can be attained only through knowledge and practice of the great Commandment of Love: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy whole mind and with thy whole heart and with all thy strength; and thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." 
Can Humanitarianism, or any of the philosophies that have been pro­posed as substitutes for Christianity 
inspire to the virtues that have so enriched Christian culture? I main­tain that they cannot. No matter how many votaries they may gain to beau­tiful lives of service, they \rill of nec­essity leave untouched a great body of human society in which selfishness will grow and fester. Humanitarian­ism has had ample time to prove its worth in this country, where \vith the decline of church-going it has become the popular philosophy. With what results? The crime rate has increased until it is a national shame, and the prevalence of youth in the crime pic­ture has caused the gravest concern. I believe that there is much more re­ligion in our country than statistics of church-going would indicate. And it is evident that there is still a strong tradition of Christian morals where Christian doctrine is ignored. But there is alarming evidence that moral notions fade, their clear out­
lines blur, and gross errors creep in when formal religion disappears from its commanding position in our lives. If any skeptic doubts this, let him follow the pei-iodic debates in the pub­lic press on moral issues that were settled ages ago by the Ten Com­mandments. 
Evaluation of Spiritual Forces 

When, in the course of time, it be­comes the task of historians to evalu­ate the spiritual forces that have been at work in the forming of what we call American Civilization, great at­tention will have to be paid to the contribution of institutions like the University of Chattanooga and the other religious schools that have tes­tified to the faith of their builders. From the viewpoint alone of healthy idealism, it is inspiring to find among our citizens a willingness to make for religious convictions sacrifices such as are represented by the church-related schools and colleges. But it represents much more than idealism; the religious school gives the most practical contribution to sound citi­zenship when it places character training first, and leads young men and women to lives of virtue. If our people ever forget this, if they fail to carry on for their children the re­
ligious schools they have inherited through the sacrifices of their fore­fathers, they will provoke once more the lament of Jeremias: "My people have done two evils, they have for­saken me, the fountain of living water, and they have digged to them­selves cisterns, broken cisterns that can hold no water." 
And now, if my gracious host will permit a word of encouragement and advice, let it be this, Develoo the religious life of your st?idents. Kindle it ever to greater zeal. We may differ honestly in the manner of our ap­proach to God and in our understand­ing of what we accept as His teach­ings. But let us honestly endeavor to know why we believe as we do. Young 
people today must know why. I am sorry that when so-called Eationalism attacked the Scriptures in the last century, too many believers ran away, instead of looking into the arguments of the Rationalists and defeating them with their own weapons of his­torical criticism. Too many Christians today are still willing to believe with­out knowing why they believe, or are content to accept moral arguments for the truth of Christianity instead of developing a vigorous apologetics. Cliristian scholarship has placed the means at our disposal if we will but use them. And finally, let every relig­ious educator reflect well on the words with which Newman describes the purpose of the religious univer­sity: 
"It is to re-unite things," he says, 

"which were in the beginning joined 
together by God, and have been put 
asunder by man. , . it will not satis­
fy me, what satisfies so many, to have 
two independent systems, intellectual 
and religious, going at once side by 
side, by a sort of division of labor, 
and only accidentally brought togeth­
er. It will not satisfy me, if religion 
is here, and science there, and young 
men converse with science all day, 
and lodge with religion in the eve­
ning. . . I wish the intellect to range 
with the utmost freedom, and religion 
to enjoy an equal freedom, but what 
I am stipulating is, that they should 
be found in one and the same place, 
and exemplified in the same persons." 
JOBS OPEN 

Distributor of varied signs for in­dustrial plants, advertising purposes and highway and sti-eet uses wants salesmen in the industrial centers of the Middle West. Infonnation from the Alumni Office. 
THE AMERICAN CREED 
(Continued from Pace 220) 

shared alike by both emploj'er and 
employee. 
I, for one, have supreme confidence in the ability of our business leaders to recognize all of the implications contained in a high wage philosophy,' and I am hopeful that this desirable objective may be attained without fur­ther governmental urging. 
To me there is a perfect reconcilia­tion of whatever desirable factors that are contained in laissez-faire economic philosophy; in sensible gov­ernmental regulation of business; the traditional American concept of indi­vidualism and initiative; and contri­butions to the common good; and I hope that those reconciliations will be voluntarily made by American busi­ness before more onerous and harsher terms under which we may conduct our business activities are forced upon us by legislators. 
Notre Dame 

Books 
Father Murray's Text Goes Into Second Printing 

Father RajTnond W. Murray's Introductory Sociology, published last summer by F. S. Crofts & Co., New York, recently went into its second printing. The book is being used as the fundamental sociology text in over 60 colleges, according to the publisher's announcement. With the second printing the publishers are at­tempting to interest a wider circle of Catholic readers, especially through study clubs in parishes, as nearly all of the re^^ewers of the book urge its use outside as well as in colleges. 
Father Murray, '18, has been doing some research in anthi-opology in the Southwest during the. second semester. 
STUHLDREHER TO WISCONSIN 
A football duel between the teams of two of the Four Horsemen is in the books with the announcement of the appointment of Han-y Stuhldre­her, '25, as director of athletics and head football coach at the University of Wisconsin, Madison. The "Stuhl­di-eher-Layden" game will be played at Notre Dame on October 17, next. 
MRS. O'DONNELL DIES 

Alumni, universally, ^vill sympa­thize with the Rev. J. Hugh O'Don­nell, C.S.C, '16, whose mother, Mrs. Sarah O'Donnell, died April 13. 
Father O'Donnell officiated at the requiem Mass at St. Andrew's cathed­ral in Grand Rapids, Michigan, on Wednesday, April 15. 
Mrs. O'Donnell's life was beauti­fully pictured, in a sermon delivered on that occasion, as one of the ideal Christian mother and parishioner. 
Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, pres­ident of the University, was deacon of the Mass, and Rev. R. E. Fitzpatricfc, Saginaw, Michigan, was sub-deacon. 
Among those attending the funeral were Revs. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C, Cornelius Hagerty, C.S.C, Patrick Carroll, C.S.C, E. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C, Bernard Voll, president of the Alumni Association, Frank W. Lloyd, Eugene Connolly, John Lacey, James 
E. McCarthy, Thomas J. Barry, El­mer F. Layden, J. Arthur Haley, Wil­liam F. Sheehan, 3. H. B. McCarthy, and from Chicago, Arthur Hughes, Daniel Hilgartner, Jr., and Daniel J. O'Connor, together with many alumni and friends from the Grand Rapids area. 
Besides Father O'Donnell, Mrs. O'Donnell is survived by a son, Dr. 
F. J. O'Donnell, '15, Alpena, Mich., and Mrs. S. H. Graziana of Genoa, Italy. 
ALUMNI CLUBS . . . 
OFFICERS OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
1935-1936 

Honorary President  Albert F. Zahm, '83  Director  —  Hugh A. O'Donnell, '94  
President  Bernard J. Voll, '17  Director  Fred L. Steers, '11  
First Vice-President  — Albert J. Galen, '96  Director  James E. Deery, '10  
Second Vice-President  George N. Shuster, '15  Director  Don P. O'Keefe, '03  
Secretary-Treasurer  James E. Armstrong, '25  Director  (ex-officio)  Timothy P. Galvin, '16  
Assistant Secretary  William R. Dooley, '26  Director  (one-year)  Thomas G. Proctor, '35  

GOVERNORS 

District 1—John W. Schindler, '09, Mishawaka. IntL District 12—Hugh M. Magevney, '25, Memphis, Tenn. District 2—^James A- Ronan, *26. Chicago, HI. District 13—Lawrence Hennessey. '27, Vicksburg, Miss. District 3—^Henry F. Bamhart, *23, Lima, Ohio District 14—^William Grady. *17, Dallas, Texas District 4—^Henry Lauennan. *23, llenominee, Mich. District 15—John M. Dugan. '27, Kansas City, Mo. 
District 5—John T. Higgins, '23, Detroit, Mich. District 16—Sherwood Dixon, '20, Dixon, HI. District 6—B. K. Wingertcr, East Orange, New Jersey. District 17—George A- McGee, '01, Minot. No. Dakota 
District 7—Edward A. Fallon, '26, New York City District 18—Robert Fox. '01, Denver, Colo. 
District 8—Gerard Ashe, '22, Rochester. N. Y. 

District 19—Thomas H. Heam, *16, IJOS Angeles, Calif. District 9—^John Robinson, '28, Waterbury, Conn. 
District 20—E. P. CarviUe, '09. Reno. Nevada District 10—^Frank A. Reese, *25, Raleigh, North Carolina 
District 21—Walter M. Daly, '04, Portland, Ore. District 11—Matthew O'Brien, '31. Tampa, Fla. 
District 22 (Foreign)—Jultus Arce, '99, Buenos Aires. Argentine, S.A 
Clubs Set Record On U.N.D. Nisht 
AKRON sible for a large share of its success An innovation this year was the 
Jowph H. Kraker. -29. n7G-24th St . Cuy-were President Bill Downey, of Niles; appointment to the committee of a
aboEK Falls. Ohio, President. Qaude H. 

Homini:, '29. 133 N. HiEhland Ave.. Gene O'Toole, St. Joseph; Louie Pat-future student, Thomas McKenna. Akron, Secretary. ton, Benton Harbor; Bill Desenberg, Tom will register and be a student at 
* Buchanan; and Tom Grimes, Niles. Notre Dame next year. He was in ARIZONA * charge of invitations to boys who in­
Jamea t). Barry. '97. Consolidated Bank BOSTON tend to go to Notre Dame and about Bids., Ttiraon, President Steven Eeheil. 
Jariath {Jack) Slattery. •21. 226 L. St. 27 boys who intend to register in the •25. 620 N. Sixth St . Tucson, Secretary. 
So. Boston, Mass.. President James Ska­han. *31, 5 Grove St. Belmont. Mass.. Sec­

next two years enjoyed this dance retary. and had an opportunity of meeting ARKANSAS 
* each other. 
Eer. Geo. F. X. Strassner, 'H, Hope, Arlc. 
President Burt L. Eoherts. 1325 Ijinooln 
Ave., I4ttle Roclc, Ark.. Secretary. 

BUFFALO Mr. and Mrs. Leon Lancaster, who 
John G. Byrne. "23, 149 Monroe Dr.. Wil­
have one son at Notre Dame now, 

* liamsville, N. Y., President Rohert Meaaer. '34. The Amherst Bee Co.. Main & Rock and another who will enter in Sep­
BENGAL Sts.. Williamsville. N.Y., Secretary. 
tember, had charge of invitations to 
R t Eev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C.. "02. 

Dacca. Bengal, India, President Kev. J. The Notre Dame alumni dance has the parents of students now in school. 
J. Henttesaey. C.S.C., '02, Dacca. Bengal. 

become a fixture in the whirl of Gene Regan's orchestra played and 
India, Secretary. 

Easter social affairs. Every Buffalo George Givot, the Greek Ambassador, 
* 

newspaper covered the affair this stopped off on his way from Holly­BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) 
year with a society reporter and wood to New York and put on his Wm. H, Dovmey. '28, 1615 Oak St, Niles. many columns of publicity preceded famous act. The Savarin Cafe and Uich.. President Malcolm K. Hatfield. 
and followed the affair. It was im­Secretary. possible to take all the reservations as 
•29, 2805 Niles Ave., S t Joseph. Mich.. the Chez Ami gave the club the pick 
of their shows. Lots of gratitude to the Lafayette Hotel crystal ballroom them. 
Universal Notre Dame was ob­was sold out two days before the 

served by the Berrien County club Credit for marvelous organization 
dance and it is very evident that next 

with a splendidly-planned and gener­work, which included plenty of hard 
year the dance will have to be moved 

ously-attended dance in the Hotel work, goes to Bob Measer. Bob has 
to some place that will accommodate 

Whitcomb in St. Joseph, Michigan. given his time unstintingly to the 
at least twice as many people. Robert 

Music was supplied by Gordon Lar­club and every member feels deeply 
Measer was general chairman, as­

son's Commanders. indebted to him for a great job. 
sisted by John G. Byrne, Frank Cass, 

Those present came from such William Cass, Carlos Frank, Donald All the old timers of the club were widely - separated places as South Love, Thomas McKenna, Martin Ry­in attendance, and every year this Bend, Indiana, and from Niles, Bu­an, Jack Leonard, Gordon Bennett, dance gets better and much, much, chanan, Dowagiac, St. Joseph, Ben­Jay L. Lee, George Doyle, Edward bigger. ton Harbor, Kalamazoo, Grand Eap-William P. Feeley, Notre Dame en­
Jenkins, Paul Hoeffler, Henry Bums, Clyde Schamel, William Measer, II., 

ids, Bertrand and Holland, in Michi­gineering graduate, is vice-president 
Donald Jacobi, J. F. 0*Marah, Peter 

gan, and Chicago. of the Buffalo section, American Soc­
Wozniak, and Edward Banks. 
iety of Civil Engineers. Bill is one of In charge of the dance and respon­

most successful engineers in this sec­tion of the country and a real credit to Notre Dame and the whole club was pleased to hear of his being hon­ored by his fellow engineers. 
Bob Moore, last year's president of the club, is at Brewerton, New York, outside of Syracuse, in charge of the job that Great Lakes Dredge & Dock is doing on the New York state barge canal. Bob will be there until late Fall when we expect to get him back in Buffalo and put him to work assisting in club affairs. 
Charlie Hitzelberger ha s bee n transferred and promoted by the Pure Oil Company. Charlie was formerly at Utica, his home. Pure Oil sent him to Buffalo as supervisor of retail sales and the Buffalo Club is glad to have him for he joined right in and helped out at the dance Easter Mon­day. His address is 986 ElUcott Square Building, Buffalo, N. Y. 
Clyde Schamel has been promoted to chief engineer of the Claude Neon Company so we are expecting bigger and better Neon lighting in Buffalo. He designed the use of the 5,300­foot of Neon tubing that went into The Chez Ami, the first lighting job any place where no light bulbs are used and everj'thing is lighted by Neon. His marvelous work on this job attracted the attention of lighting engineers throughout the country and his company gave him this well de-_ served promotion. 
John I. Gray has become a member of the Buffalo Club. Governor Leh­man appointed Jack as executive as­sistant to the New York State Liquor Authority and he is located in the State Building at Buffalo as assistant in charge of the 27 western and southern counties in New York State. 
Jimmy Crowley spoke at the Sat­urn Club annual sports dinner and was voted the best after dinner speaker ever to appear at the club. John Byrne spent a few hours after the dinner with Jim and they enjoyed rehashing experiences of 12 or 13 years ago at Notre Dame. 
Bob Meater's mother died Wednes­day, April 15, and he has the sym­pathy of the entire club for both Bob's father and mother have been active in Notre Dame affairs and are well known to all the members of the club. 
We were well represented on the air Universal Notre Dame Night. Both the Chains brought the program into Buffalo on stations WGK and WBEN. In addition to this, station WBNY broadcast a program from 
9:30 p.m. to 10 p.m. Station WEBR broadcast from 10:30 to 11 p.m. Ed Hunsinger, Biff Lee, and John Byrne were on both the WBNY and WEBR programs. 
Ed Hunsinger has his team out at 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
spring practice at Niagara University and he uses the Rockne method of alibiing as to how many games he intends to lose. 
Dinner parties were given preced­ing the Easter Monday dance by Mr. and Mrs. John G. Byrne, Mr. and Mrs. Jay L. Lee, Mr. and Mrs. Gord­on Bennett, Donald G. Jacobi, Mr. and Mrs. Robert T. Moore, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Burns, Mr. and Mrs. J. 
Arthur McMullen, Jack Leonard, Mr. 
and Mrs. Paul Hoefler, Mr. and Mrs. Clyde Schamel, Frank and William Cass, and Mr. and Mrs. Leon Lan­caster. Restaurant and hotel men said that it came closer to the pre-gayety of the Christmas Charity Ball than any other dance in years. The club plans to establish a scholarship fund at Notre Dame with the proceeds of this and future dances. 
The Notre Dame debating team met the University of Buffalo team at the University Club Thursday, April 17. Jack Leonard was chairman of the committee to entertain them and did a fine job of showing them the city, Niagara Falls, and other points of interest. 
We heard that Don Miller spent the day in Orchard Park, a suburb of Buffalo, a few weeks ago and both Ed Hunsinger and John Byrne have made some dire threats as to what will happen to him if he gets that close and doesn't call them the next time. 
Bill Gilchrist wrote from Toronto that he would like to be included on the Buffalo Club mailing list as he intends to get down to some of the doings in the future. Bill is vice-president and a director of Cockfield, Brown & Company, Ltd., Metropoli­tan Building, Toronto, Ontario, Can. He gets a bit lonesome for a bull ses­sion once in a while and wishes that some of his friends would say hello when they get into Toronto. Incident­ally, Bill's is one of the biggest agen­cies in Canada, operating in Toronto, Montreal, Quebec, and all the prin­cipal cities of the Dominion. 
Bill would like to see a Notre Dame Club of Toronto formed but doesn't know of any other Notre Dame men there. Jim Armstrong is going to try and find some playmates in the alumni files and Toronto may have the makings of a good quartet. Bill and John Byrne get together once in a while, but John has never completely forgiven him for sticking a Corby fire hose through the tran­som and turning it on when John was trying to get some sleep. 
The old Sorin combination of Big Bill Hart and Kid Ashe got together in Buffalo a short time ago and they talked so much and so long that we haven't heard from either one since. 
John Byrne. 

CALUMET DISTRICT (Iad.-ia) 
WnUsm L. Tnvis. '27. 803 Uord BMc. 
Hammond, Ind.. Presideot. Finl J. Sol-
man. Jr., '28, 5752 Erie Ave.. Raimnond. 
Ind.. Secretary. 

CAPITOL DISTRICT (Naw Yoik) 
C3are L. Tonher, '28, 601-02 NaUonal Sar­
inea Bank Bid?.. Allnsy, N. Y.. Froident. 
Edward J. Eekert. •». 5 lawnridge Ave.. 
Albany. N. Y., Secretary. 

CENTRAL OHIO 
Raymond J. Eicbenlanlib 'IE, Boater Beal­
ty Bide. Colmnbos, Pnaident. 

Harry Neater talked over station WOOL, at 9:00 p.m., on April 20, Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Harry disposed of this assignment in ultra perfection. Graham McNa­mee, Ted Husing and other profes­sionals should have cause to worry. The Central Ohio club could not have found a better representative for the occasion. His delivery, articulation and subject, as well as arrangement, could hardly have been improved upon. 
Immediately following the broad­

cast, local alumni settled down to a 
touch of stag conviviality. 
Ray J. Eichenlaub. 

CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dr. E. J. Hermes. 'IS, 1910 Oakland St. 
Lansing, President. J. Harvey Gaatbler, 
'30. Bark River, Michisan. Secretary. 

The size of our club did not allow us to have a large gathering on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night but we did have a very successful meeting. 
Many of our members who had put in an appearance at the regular monthly meetings were on hand and we were pleasantly entertained dur­ing the time we waited for the broad­cast by Tom King, line coach of Mich­igan State College. Tom gave us some interesting sidelights on the past football season as well as the coming seasons of both Michigan State and Notre Dame. 
We were pleased to have in at­tendance Edward Cuddihy, a former member of our club now residing in Detroit. Paris Cowart, who in the past few months became the father of twins, was also very much in evi­dence. 
New officers were not installed and Dr. E. J. Hermes remains president of the club, John J. Scales, vice-pres­ident, and myself secretary and treas­urer. 
Harvey Gautliier. 

CHICAGO 
Edward "W. Gould. '23, I3I3 W. Randolph St. President Patrick F. Crowley. '33. 742 Junior Terrace. Secretary-

It is a pleasure to be able to initi­ate my duty as secretary by giving you an account of the manner in which Universal Notre Dame night was observed by the Chicago Club. Some time ago Ed Gould, our very capable and aggressive president, ap­pointed George W. Dailey as the chairman of the committee to make this evening's celebration attractive. The committee, and especially the chairman, spent a good deal of time working out the details with the hope that their objective of having a crowd of GOO would be attained. 
To the complete amazement and gratification of all concerned, over 850 people were on hand for the dinner at the Knickerbocker Hotel. Despite this unexpected attendance the service was handled in fine stj'le and it seemed to be the general opin­ion that, socially as well as financial­ly, the 1935 Universal Notre Dame night in Chicago was of outstanding value. 
For the edification of the assem­blage there was an excellent talk by Pat Manion, the main theme of which was the need for enthusiasm and I think it is safe to say that the local alumni club has acquired that neces­sary element. Eddie Dowling gave a very sincere and interesting talk, which, I understand, moved a few of the less calloused graduates to tears. Warren Brown rounded out the speaking program and was in his usual fine form. Because the toast­master happened to be my father, I will not attempt to eulogize or criti­cize his efforts. Suffice it to say that, despite the overflow crowd, the pro­gram was carried out on schedule. 
To complete the evening we had a solo from Miss Alice Wortinger, were favored by the talents of Peggy Dell and Pat O'Malley of Jack Hylton's orchesti-a, and pictures of the Ohio State game were exhibited. 
It would seem to me that the cur­rent enthusiasm among the alumni is attributable partially to improved conditions, but mainly to the work of the president, the chairman, the com­mittee, the officers, and such men as Byron Kanaley, who personally ac­counted for one-third of the tickets sold. 
Several out-of-town alumni were present including Jack Jaeger, one of the outstanding hosieiy salesmen in the Middle West; Ed Stephan, sales representative for DeVoe and Rey­nolds Paint Company in northern Illinois; and Emil Telfel, who was in Chicago visiting Al Stepan in his new home. Emil is head of the Depart­ment of Journalism at St. Norbert's College in Wisconsin. 
Pat Crowley. 
*• 
CINCINNATI 
Harry V. Crumley, '03, 2655 S. Harrison 
Ave., Westwood Branch, President. Frank 
H. Sweeney, ex. *17, Kemper Lane Hotel, Secretarj*. 
National convention of the Amer­ican Alumni Council and Universal Notre Dame Night in Cincinnati proved a double attraction and en­joyment for the Editor. 
The Convention, always a pleasant and constmctive experience, extended from April 19 to 23. -Accepting the hospitality of Frank Sweeney, Club secretarj' and manager of the Kem­per Lane hotel, the Editor was im­mediately projected into a Notre Dame atmosphere that outshone the Convention and at the same time added to the value of it. 
On Monday night (after a prelim­inaiy session with the Sweeneys and 
the W. D. "Hogan" Morrisseys on 
Saturday night) the Notre Dame Club met in the verj' attractive quarters provided at the Kemper Lane. An excellent dinner was followed by a talk by the Editor and by Harry Baujan, former football star now coaching at the U. of Dayton. Pro­ceedings were interrupted to allow the Editor, Harry Baujan, President Harry Crumley, Hogan Morrissey, A! Castellini, Joe Morrissey, Joe Man­ning, Dick Shields, Leo Dubois and John Anderson to speed to Radio Sta­tion WCPO, where, through the cour­tesy of that station, a half-hour pro-gi-am was given. Talks, by President Cmmley, Coach Baujan, the Editor, and Master of Ceremonies Castellini, were interspei'sed by Notre Dame mu­sic sung by the alumni chorus and soloist Hogan Morrissey. 
Back at the headquarters such stal­wart veterans as Ed McHugh, Larry Jansen, Bob Kuerze and Chief Meyer were holding the Club members spell­bound until the "cast" returned. Shortly after the meeting resumed in full force, the national broadcast came through perfectly from the local outlet WSAI, and the group heard Father O'Hara, Bernie VoU and the Moreau Choir, Frank Walker and Bishop McNamara, with the utmost pleasure. 
Tuesday night, the Editor enjoyed several alumni visits in Cincinnati. First of all a family dinner at Joe MoiTissey's created a completely at-home feeling which a convention or­dinarily dispels. Then, with Joe and -A.1 Castellini, the Editor enjoyed two hours •n-ith Howard Rohan, whom ill­ness had kept from the meeting, but who was as much on his toes about Notre Dame both in interest and in­formation as any of the traveling del­egates. It was an added pleasure at the Rohan home to meet Mrs. Rohan and young Howard, who is thinking about Notre Dame for 1936-37. Later adjournment to the Castellini home brought the charming wives of the Messrs, Castellini and Morrissey into the picture. And a midnight resume with the Sweeneys after returning to the Kemper Lane brought the day to such a complete close that an 8:30 call the next morning aroused the ever alert Editor promptly at 1 P. M., just in time to preside at the last business meeting of the aforemen­tioned convention. 
Put it all together, it spells a fine time. 
CLEVELAND 
Clayton Lcroiuc. '27. 3356 Daleford Road. 
Cleveland Hirts., Ohio, President. Otis 
Winchester. •29. 296S Meadowbrook Blvd.. 
Qevcland Hsts., Ohio, Secretary. 

Our annual Rockne Mass was a splendid success. The Mass was said by Father Moriarty, our Chaplain in St. Paul's Shrine, Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, at 8:00 a.m. on March 29. There were approximately 125 mem­bers of the local alumni present, practically all of whom received the sacraments in honor of Rock. Break­fast was served immediately after at the University Club followed by a very interesting talk by Gus Dorais from Detroit who came down for the occasion. His remarks were gi-eatly enjoyed and the whole party was a complete success. 
Incidentally, in case News-hound, Winchester, should miss his cue, here are a few additional items to add to the ALU.MXUS. Jlrs. Tho mas Byrne (Katherine McGivern), of St. Maiy's is recovering from a bad case of the grippe. Norm McLeod reports it is a boy, while Denny O'Neill says it's a girl. All parties are doing well. Bill Van Rooy is baching these days, and we understand he confines his cook­ing activities to the preparation of the famous VanRooy coffee. John Butler has just been appointed assist­ant to the county prosecutor's office. 
Clayt. Leroux. 
April 23, 1936. 
Seeing as how this will be my last appearance in the role of secretarj-, I will try to round up all the news that has been packed into the last three weeks. Abide with me as I swing into action. 
I'm told that Clayt Leroux has al­ready T.\Titten you about the Rockne Mass and breakfast. 

Our next gathering was the annual Easter Monday Formal. This year Stan Cofall was general chairman and both he and his committees are to be congratulated on the splendid job which they performed. As you probably have already heard, the dance was held at the Mayfair Casino, music was furnished by Maurice Spitalny and Gene Beecher. An eight-course dinner and tivo floor shows added to the attractions of the evening. Old members and students were well represented and it was a very successful party, socially as well as financially. The ^\^ves of the com­mittee members did an exceptionally fine job under the direction of Mrs. Cofall and Mrs. Slackford. 
We are very grateful to Chet Grant for his assistance in connection with the presentation of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland trophy to the win­ner of the interscholastic track meet, recently held in Cleveland. Jolm Marshall High of Cleveland was the winner. Vice-President Chet Brum­leve, introduced Chet Grant. It might be well to explain that annually the local alumni club presents several trophies to the ^vinners of athletic events in Cleveland. They include this track trophy and the Catholic league football trophy, which inci­dentally, has been won by Joe Gavin's Holy Namers for the past three or four years. Holy Name also has sev­eral legs on the basketball trophy, so this guy Gavin must have stolen a lot of the Irish light from Notre Dame to instill it into that school. 
Our next activity was the observ­ance of the Universal Notre Dame night. This consisted of a broadcast Sunday night over Station WHK and a broadcast Monday night over, WTAM, following the national broad­cast. Our local quartet composed of Joe and John Butler, and Jerry and Jack Reidy, the Holy Name high school band and the John Carroll University glee club furnished the music on the local broadcasts. We were pleased to discover so many Husings and JIcNamees amongst our membership, including Gay Haas, Joe Heimann, Clayt Leroux, Chet Brum­leve and Don Miller. We are verj­grateful for the cooperation of the University in sending Father Lahey and Chet Grant to be our guests of honor at the dinner and on the second broadcast. We welcomed the oppor­tunity that the dinner offered to ex­tend a welcome to Tom Conley and his staff of new coaches at John Car­roll University. Gene Oberst was a little late in arriving for the dinner but his size assured his being seen by everyone. 
Gay Haas is to be congratulated on ari-anging the affair and particu­larly for his selection of Joe Heimann as toastmaster for the evening. He is also to be commended on securing Dr. Wright, president of Baldwin Wallace College, Dr. Wickenden, president of the Case School of Applied Science, and Father Gallagher, of John Carrol! University, as guest of honor. I might add here that Father Lahey and Chet Grant did themselves proud as representatives of the University. Such a thing as this does much to spread the good name of Notre Dame in this community. It was a fitting and appropriate climax to the year's actiWty. 
I take this opportunity to express for my fellow officers and for myself our appreciation for the honors of representing this past year, the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. It is true without stating that we feel it has been an extremely satisfactory year and more than successful. We are proud to offer it as another milestone in the progress of Notre Dame and the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. To all the fellows who have furnished their assistance and time towards making the program a success, we ex­press our thanks. 
FLASH. Mickey McMahon was in from the environs of Zinzinnati and reported the birth of a new daughter, Mary Adlyn, bom Easter Sunday. 
Clayt Leroux and Marguerite Pow­ers are engaged to be married. I have been waiting four months to re­port that little fact and in my last letter I get a chance to come through. 
John Murphy just returned from a short trip to the Bermuda Islands. George Belting has gone black face in local parish dramatics. The Notre Dame Club is well represented in the coming Cleveland Exposition. Jim Bourke is assistant publicity man, and Chuck Smallwood, Art Gallagher and Tom Yarr are working on the lake­frolit attempting to boss the gangs that are constructing the exposition proper. Roger Brennan has recent­ly located in town with ToUes, Hog-sett and Ginn as one of their younger lawyers. 
For the benefit of all you visiting firemen this coming summer I ought to say that Notre Dame boys can be found most any evening around Charlie Rohr's, 1794 East Ninth and at Al Grisanti's Lakeside Cafe, East Twelfth and St. Clair. Another re­treat for the boys is Sonnfaalter's, at 55th and Euclid. So, when you are here for the Great Lakes Exposition this Summer: Monday noons at Rohr's and Saturday nights at Grisanti's. 
Ari-angements will be announced later for the Notre Dame Club's par­ticipation in the American Legion convention later this year. 
Announcement has just been made that Leroux has been appointed sec­retarj' of the local chapter of the National Catholic Alumni Fedei-ation. Members of the local N.D. alumni club are welcome to membership and are urged to participate in the Fed­eration's activities. See Leroux for further information. It is rumored that the next convention of this or­ganization is to be held in town. 
We regret to announce that the following deaths occurred since my last letter, John Flynn's father, John Weisend's mother and Jack Sonn­halter's grandmother, and ask that prayers be offered for the repose of their souls. 
Otis S. Winchester. 

CONNECTICUT VALLEY Thomas E. FerRuson, '26. 7 Windsor St., ThompsonvUIc. Conn., President. Francis 
D. Ahem. "29, 1 Webster St.. Hartford, Conn., Secretary. 

DALLAS 
James P. Swift, '24, 1202 Southwestern 
Life Bid?., Dallas, President. Francis A. 
McCallouch, '30, 917 First National Banic 
Bldg,. Dallas, Secretary. 

DAYTON 
EuKene Mayl. '2-1. 400 Irvinfr Ave.. Presi­
dent. William Cronin, '29. 41S Crafton 
Ave.. Secretary. 

On Monday night, April 20, the Dayton - Notre Dame alumni joined the rest of the clubs throughout the country in celebrating Universal Notre Dame Night. 
At 6:15 p.m. over Station WSMK. Eugene Mayl gave an interesting talk concerning Universal Notre Dame Night and explaining many phases of campus life. 
We held our election of officers and 

Eugene Mayl was elected president 
and Bill Cronin secretary. 
Andy Aman. 
* 

DENVER Eobcrt Didc, "29, 930 Grant St., President. 
Harry Lawrence, •29. 1951 Lawrence St.. 

Secretary. So! You thought you could leave us out, hey? Nothing was heard on your end from the alumni gi-oup of Denver and Colorado, but wuz we there! And from every standpoint it was a successful meeting, dinner and all-around get-together. Finally, after many years, out of the ashes of past failures arises a new Notre Dame club of Denver. This time there is something behind it and all the lads promise you that something will come of this. 
Jim Logan handled our program out here over our local KVOD radio station and did an excellent job of it, then returned to partake of the mer­riment that was dished out around. The same men were held over in of­fice for at least a period of a month, because it was decided that the best thing to do with this present group is to build from it. And so, for the next four weeks. Bob Dick and Harry Lawrence, the present officers, are to have the help of Jim Logan, Jim H a n I o n, Johnnie Humphries and yours truly to arrange a dinner on the ISth of May. It'll be a corker. 
Sorry we didn't have the national chain as did many of the other more fortunate groups, but we made up for it in noise and "boondoggling"— ah — there's a word, and did we "boondoggle!" 
Ray Smith. 
* 

DETROIT 
.loseph J. Norton. *24, 1025 Forest .-Vve.. 
President; Edward R. McJIahon. ex. '30, 
2291 LaMotte Ave.. Secretary. 
April 17, 1936 

The Notre Dame Club of Detroit held its monthly meeting and dinner at the University Club on Monday, April 6. 
The principal speakers were Judge 
D. J. Healey of Probate Court and Father Deady, diocesan superintend­ent of parochial schools. Judg e Healey gave a very interesting talk on methods and procedure now being developed in Detroit to curb crime and delinquency among minors. Two of the Judge's most valuable assist­ants are Notre Dame men, Ed Saw-kins and Joe Norton. 
Father Deady, an alumnus of Notre Dame, is doing a remarkable 
230 The Notre Dame Alumnus May, 1936 
job in getting the parochial school system organized on a basis where it will be difficult for any other school system to compete with it. He told of the problems which the diocese is facing and what was being done to organize the school system and to help the students attending various Catholic schools. 
The toastmaster for the evening was Tad Rockwell of the sports de­partment of the Detroit Free Press. Tad had many interesting stories to tell regarding famous sport celebri­ties and although he had an assign­ment to cover wrestling matches, he remained with us until the program was over. 
Joe Norton again discussed the question of alumni dues and urged all members who have not yet paid to send in their $5.00 to Jim Arm­
strongf. 
The club members will meet for Universal Notre Dame Night at the Detroit Leland Hotel. The program includes a banquet, a number of in­teresting speakers, and finally. Fa­ther O'Hara's talk over the NBC net­work. 
Bill McCuIlough. 
At the request of President Joe Norton, Johnny Michuta, Detroit boy who starred at tackle for the past three seasons, the films of last Fall's Pitt game and the Managing Editor barged in on the club for its Uni­versal Notre Dame Night banquet in the Detroit-Leland Hotel. 
The speakers for the occasion in­cluded Harry Kelly, Al Ryan, former secretary of the Alumni Association, who presided at the "birth" of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night back in 1924; Tad Rockwell, former Michi­gan football star, and the Manag­ing Editor. The president of the Alumni Association of the Univer­sitj- of Detroit was a much appre­ciated guest and spoke briefly. Ray Kelley, the toastmaster, was presented by President Norton. 
Following the dinner and the speaking, time was taken out for the perfect reception of the national broadcast over a Detroit station. Then, with Ted Feldjian's equipment and with Ted at the "controls," John­ny Michuta presented the Pitt game pictures to the fascinated group. 
DES MOINES 
Jama C. Shaw, '22, 307 Equitable Bids., PreBident F. M. Wonderlin. •29. 302 Hub-bell BldB., Secretary. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
James D. Hayes. *17. 4612 Morgan Drive. Chevy Chase, Md.. President. J. Thomas Garver, •32, 1210 Perry St.. N.E.. Wash­infrton, D.C., Secretary. 
The splendid function, featuring the national hook-up program, ar­ranged by the District of Columbia club, is outlined in a leading article in this issue. 
DUBUQUE 
C. I. Krajewski. '16. 321 Bank & Insurance Bids.. President. Henrj- 1. Trenkle. ^24. ISO S. Booth St.. Secretary. 
"Believe it or not" the Notre Dame Club of Dubuque was organized. The first meeting was held on^March 18 at the Elks' Club. Twenty-two alum­ni and former students gathered to­gether for the purpose, with Elmer Layden as our guest of honor. Elmer, of course, delivered a splendid talk which we all enjoyed. He motored with Hank Wurzer from Davenport to Dubuque. 
After the dinner, we held an elec­tion of officers. The Hon. Patrick J. Nelson, LL.B. '88, was selected hon­orable president. C. I. Krajewski, '16, president; Joseph A. Rhomberg, '22, vice-president; Henry J. Trenkle, '24, secretarj', and Louis F. Fautsch, '35, treasurer. 
Those present at the meeting were the following: John L. Duffy, '24, Ralph J. Ellwanger, Jr., '35, Robert 
H. Kenline, '35, Joseph A. Meuser, Jr., '26, William B. Meuser, '16, John 
J. Nelson, '30, Thomas H. Nelson, '34, Albin A. Rhomberg, '22, Louis A. Rhomberg, '31, John J. Simones, '29, Edmund C. Tschudi, '25, John Nie­miec, '29, Dr. E. B. Rhomberg, ex. '27, Sev. Beck, Paul Gerhig, ex. '34, John Manley, '31. 
Arrangements are now being made for the next meeting which will be held on Universal Notre Dame Night, April 20. This meeting no doubt will be held at the Julien Hotel, vfhich is under the control of Walter Klauer, M.E. '22. 
After the March 18 dinner and meeting Elmer showed movies of the Notre Dame-Ohio State game to the club, and hundreds of Elks who were in\ited. Needless to say we enjoyed this feature immensely. You shall have a report from the secretary after the next meeting. 
C. I. Krajewski. 
EASTERN INDIANA 
Thomas A. Cannon, '33, 401 Wysor Bide., Muncie, Ind., President. Alvis E. Grander, ex. •SI, 617 S. Jefferson St, Hartford City. Ind., Secretary. 
The Notre Dame of today and yes­terday was the subject of a talk made by Phil O'Neill, Anderson attorney, at a dinner of the Eastern Indiana Club held in the Delaware Hotel, Muncie, on Universal Notre Dame 
Night. Thomas A. Cannon presided 
at the meeting. 
At 9:30 o'clock the club went on the air over radio station WLBC, pre­senting two skits. The first with William F. Craig as the announcer and Alvis Granger of Hartford City as an alumnus, dealt with the Uni­versity history and activities. The second skit was based on the Notre Dame-Ohio State football game of last Fall. Those participating in the second skit were Fred Coughlin of Portland, Thomas A. Cannon, James 
W. Halligan and Richard Greene of 
Muncie; Edward Fitzmaurice of Win­chester; William Cronin and Ah-is Granger of Hartford City. 
Francis Brown, of Pennville, and Lawrence Pursley, of Hartford Citj", sang, accompanied at the piano by Mrs. Ronald O'Neill. Others attending the meeting included Albert Cox of Hartford City, Charles F. Vogt, Fred 
WaUon, Don Martin, W. F. Craig 
and Robert A. Holmes, of Muncie, members of the club, and Frank Wilt of Portland and Pat Larkin of Hart­ford City, guests. 
The next meeting of the club will be held May 11, officers to be elected at that time. Edward Fitzmaurice is \'ice - president of the club, Mvis Granger is secretarj-, and Francis Brown, treasurer. 
The club had its monthly meeting on Monday, April 6, in the Hotel Hartford, Hartford City, with dinner at 7 o'clock. Plans were made at that time for the Universal Notre Dame Night observance. 
Al Granger. 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Leo E. Mclntyre. •28, Bethlehem, Presi­dent Ernest L. Wilhdm. '27, New Jer­sey Zinc Co., Research Dept. Palmerton, Secretary. 
ERIE. PENNSYIVANIA 
Richard D. Daley, •17. Eric Daily Times, Preiident Thomas Barber, '24, 416 New­man St, Secretary. 
I neglected writing you before your last issue of the ALUMNUS about a meeting of the Erie club held Feb. 22 at which time we had as our guest Pal Manion. Pat had graciously con­sented to honor the Erie County Bar Association at its annual dinner by being the principal speaker on that occasion. I had been particularly anxious to have him accept due to the fact that in the past few years we had such men as Roscoe Pound, dean of the Har\'ard law school. At­torney General Schnader and H. F. Goodrich, dean of the law school of the University of Pennsylvania. Since he was to be in town, we decided to have a get-together and luncheon and Pat was our guest. The luncheon was promoted by Dick Dailey, president of our Erie Club, George Meade and Earl O'Conner, and we had a pretty good turn-out. 
The impression made by Pat as our principal speaker was, needless to say, excellent and we from Notre Dame were especialy proud of him. In the opinion of those present, he delivered the finest address that we have been privileged to hear in years. 

On Feb. 24 following the banquet, the president of our Bar Association wrote me as follows: 
"I want to expi-ess to you my sin­cere thanks for suggesting Prof. Clarence Manion as speaker at the annual banquet of the Erie County Bar Association. Mr. Manion was not only a splendid gentleman, but he certainlj- gave us a very good mes­sage. He understood his subject and from expressions I have heard from various members of the Bar Associa­tion, although his talk was brilliant and instructive." 
Tom Barber. 

FAIRFIELD COUNTY (Connecticut) 
James Murphy, *22, 611 Security Bids.. Bridseport. Conn.. President. Joseph E. Rusao, '32, 166 Houeh Ave., Bridgeport, Conn., Secretary. 

FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 
Donnelly P. McDonald. '12. Peoples Trust & Saving Co., President. Bdward S. Sul­livan. '24, 123 E. Suttenfield St. Secretary. 

The Fort WajTie Club had three exceedingly welcome representatives at the Rockne Mass and Breakfast of the St. Joe Valley Club on Sunday, March 29. They were Ed Sullivan, secretarj' of the Fort Wayne unit, 
Fred Schoppn:an and Paul Schrantz. 
A story in Our Sunday Visitor makes known the fact that Paul was recently elected president of the boys' division of the Catholic Youth Organ­ization Citj'-Wide Youth Council in Fort Wayne. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was the occasion of the largest meeting of the alumni and old students of the University in the city of Fort Wayne during the past year. 
The meeting was held at the Hotel Keenan and consisted of a dinner fol­lowed by short speeches from repre­sentatives of the campus and notables within our midst. 
John Schindler of Mishawaka, dis­trict governor of the Association, Registrar Bob Riordan and Bill Shakespeare were our guests. Each responded with a message of friendli­ness and good-will. 
The local speakers consisted of 

Donnelly P. McDonald, Stephen B. Fleming, Byron V. Hayes, Henry Has­ley, John W. Eggeman, Harry Hogan, Paul Sagstetter, Charles M. Neizer and Martin J. Cleary. 
Frank Corbett was toastmaster. 

Amongst the 58 in attendance was Patrick J. McDonald, father of our president Donnelly P. McDonald, who attended the University along in 1877 and a few years thereafter. No doubt he is one of the oldest living students of Notre Dame. In addition to Mr. McDonald, we also had the good for­tune to have guests from nearby cities, Don Sullivan and Aurelius Find represented Huntington and Art 
Vogelwede, Al Schmidt and Pat Hy­
lan represented Decatur, Indiana. Some new faces from our own community were noted for the first time. In the general confusion which followed the close of the meeting proper I was unable to contact all of these men. However, I did have the pleasure of meeting Jack W. Wynn, of 337 Cornell Circle, a pre-medic stu­dent of a few years ago, and W. M. Carroll, Research and Invention Engi­neer of S. F. Bowser, Meyer Avenue. Mr. Carroll, by the way, was formerly located in Dayton, Ohio, and was a member of the Notre Dame Club there. 
Through the courtesy of Maurice DeWald we were able to listen to the national radio program. 
Pictures of the Navj^-Notre Dame game of 1935 were shown and a run­ning account of the plays was given by our all-too-modest Bill Shake­speare. 
Paul Sagstetter was general chair­man of our affair. He was assisted by Frank Metrailer, Fred Schoppman, Bmff Clean', Henry Hasley and Art Miller. 
In closing I should like to take this opportunity to thank you in behalf of our local unit for the kindness of se­curing Mr. Schindler, Mr. Riordan and Mr. Shakespeare for our pro­gram and of permitting us to have the Navy game films for the occasion. Also I should like to express my grat­itude as well as that of Paul Schrantz and P^-ed Schoppman for the wonder­ful manner in which we were received by the St. Joe Valley Club when at­tending the memorial services for Rockne some weeks ago. 
Edw. S. Sullivan. 

GOGEBIC RANGE (Michigan) 
Rohert O'Callaeban. ex. '16, Gosebic Na­tional Bank. Ironwood. President. Francis 
J. Vukovich, *35, Ridse St., Ironwood, Mich., Secretary. 

In accordance with a letter re­ceived from Dr. Nigro we had an in­formal banquet and meeting, together with the St. Mary's alumnae, on Rockne's birthday, March 4, 1936. Three important matters were taken care of. It was decided that our club continue the practice of having a Mass said at the St. Olaf Shrine in Dillon Hall. Hence on March 31, 1936, a Requiem High Mass was said 
by Father Connerton at the shrine. 
The club wishes to thank Father Cav­anaugh and all others who aided in making possible this matter. 
Likewise, the St. Mary's club is giving a banquet in our honor. At present we are still waiting for it, but we have hope. The third item, which received much attention and discussion, was plans for a boat trip during the coming Summer. Doctor Kamm of Ashland, Wisconsin, pre­sented the plan, and he feels certain that we will not be disappointed. 
With the coming of Easter it was a treat to see the fellows from school. We were not able to have a private meeting but individually we were able to get the low-down on just what was happening. 
Frank Vakovich. 

GRAND RAPIDS Georse E. Ludwisr, '25, 328 Glenhaven Ave., N.W.. President. Raymond J. Boninl. '27. 607 Atwood, N.E., Secretary. 
GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN Harold L. Londo. '24, City Ensineera* Of­fice, City Hall. President. Levi A. Genleoe. '24, 510 Minahan Bide.. Secretary. 
HAMILTON, OHIO 
M. O. Bums. '86. 338 S. Second St.. Fnil­dent. Marc A. Fiehrer, '27, 701 RentaeUer Bide.. Secretary. 

The Easter Revue (with a dinner) of the Hamilton Club was presented in Elks' Temple on Wednesday eve­ning, April 8, with Ace Operator Cemey, of the Hollywood unit, and the w.k. Ohio State pictures as the chief attractions and Bob Wilke and Russell Nickels, Hamilton residents who are two of Elmer's best pros­pect for next Fall, as guests of honor. 
Vince Pater was chairman of the committee in charge of arrangements and Michael O. Bums, president of the club and secretary of the golden anniversary class, presided as toast­master. 
The gathering was the largest spon­sored by the club since it was organ­ized in 1922. The guests numbered 101. 
HIAWATHALAND (Micli.-Wis.) 
Gerald J. Oeary. '21. 310 Lake Shore Dr.. 
Escanaba. Mich., President. Edward J. 
Dundon. '22. Iron Mountain. Mich.. Secre­
tary. 
The Hiawathaland club met in the tap room of Delta Brewing Company at Escanaba to celebrate the thir­teenth universal Notre Dame Night. Fifteen men were present. The pro­gram was informal. District Gover­nor Henry Lauerman, a member of the club, explained some of the aims of the association. He also urged the prompt payment of dues. R. B. Stack, a varsity pitcher of the 1892-94 teams, was present and reminisced of that period. 
New officers were elected as fol­lows: President, Gerald J. Cleary; vice-president, Joseph Lauerman; sec­retary, Edward J. Dundon; treasurer, 
R. B. Stack. 
N. C. Bartholomew. 

HOUSTON 
U. S. Walter. '14, 1702 Stuart Ave.. Hous­ton. President. Tliomaa F. Green Jr.. '27. Conroe. Texas. Secretary. 
On April 20, the Notre Dame Club of Houston observed Universal Norte Dame Night with a banquet at the State Hotel in Houston. 
It was a gala occasion for Notre Bame men, as the State of Texas was celebrating the following day, April 21, as its one-hundred anniversary of the Battle of San Jacinto, at which battle Texas won her independence from Mexico. There was a military field Mass celebrated at 10:30, April 21, at which 25 bishops and four archbishops were present. It really was a beautiful sight, and a crowd of over 100,000 witnessed the celebi-a­tion. 
The reason that I am telling you about the centennial celebration is that the superior general of the Holy Cross Order, Father Donahue, was in attendance. Father Gallagan from St. Mary's Church in Austin and Father O'Brien were also present. The Notre Dame representative was Father Jo­seph Burke. 
Present at the banquet were: M. 
£. Walter, Charles S. Atchison, Ted 
Twomey, R. C. Scoggins, J. Nat 
Powers, Brian S. Odem, Larry 
O'Leary, Jack Chevigny, J. R. Por­
ter, Tom Needham, Tommy Green. 
Tommy Green, Secretary. 
* 
INDIANAPOLIS Charles E. Mason. '2G. Indiana Bell Tele­
phone Co., President. Frank P. JlcCarthy. 
'28. 813 N Gray St. Secretary. 
Being the victim chosen by the nominating committee and shoved into the secretaryship of Indianapolis-Noti-e Dame Club, I suppose it in­volves that I report a few of the de­tails of our meeting held last Mon­day evening in conjunction with world centei-s of Notre Dame men. 
The meeting was pretty well at­tended, about 60 fellows showing up. In the absence of Father Wenninger, our scheduled speaker from school, who, as you know is ill, we were en­lightened on the current campus gos­sip by Professors Andrew Boyle and Lawrence H. Baldinger. They were in the city conducting a group of pharmajcy students, through the lab­oratories of the Eli Lily Company. One of the students, Ex-Ex Colonel Bray of Kentucky, gave a scientific discourse in an Irvin Cobb vein. He's good—^you should get in touch with him. 
The following officers for the year were chosen president, Charles E, Maion, '26; lace-president, William 
H. Krieg, '29; secretary, Frank P. McCarthy, '28; treasurer, Albert J. Smith, '35. 
An item of particular interest in connection with the election of the new officers was the fact that they were entrusted with a treasury with money in it. 
Frank P. McCarthy. 
JACKSON, MICHIGAN 
Lcs'ter Wisda, '31. 1016 E. Ganson St.. 
President. Lyman Hill. '29. 224 S. Mech­
anic St., Secretary. 
Lester J. Wisda was elected presi­dent of the club on Universal Notre Dame Night at a meeting in the K. of 
C. Home. Byrne Daly, retiring presi­dent, was named honorary president, Ed O'Neill, vice-president, Lyman Hill, secretar}', and Leon Russell, treasurer. Les gave a Notre Dame talk over Station WIBM at 9 o'clock. 
JOLIET, ILLINOIS 
• Robert Basker\-ilIo, ',11, 104 Younirs Ave.. 
President. Clarence Wilhelmi. '18. 909 On­
eida St., Secretary, 
In the pioneer club-rooms of the Notre Dame Club of Joliet the Alum­ni Association and the Clubs have one of the liveliest spots on the N. D. map. 
The Editor, Joe (Sports) Petritz and Professor John M. Cooney took one of those pleasant and unpremed­itated cross-countrj' trips on March 31 to participate in a memorial dinner and meeting for Knute K. Rockne. 
The Club rooms are appropriately covered with Notre Dame pictures, and a large photograph of Rock was placed on the head table for the trib­ute proper. Francis Dunn was toast­master. The eulogy for Rock was pronounced by Rev. Matthew O'Neil, 
O. Carm. Principal speaker was Joe Petritz, who began his auspicious ca­reer as sports publicitj' director at Notre Dame under Rock's genius. 
On Universal Notre Dame Night, the Club again met in its quarters (which have taken on new life vrith the opening of a new bridge adjoin­ing). Through the courtesy of Radio Station WCLS, a program of fifteen minutes was devoted to Notre Dame, featured by an address on the ideals and achievements of the University by James £. Burke. 
The Club rooms have provided a nucleus and at the same time a stim­ulus for Club activity that seem to suggest the idea as part of the pro­gram for Clubs of any substantial size or concentration. 
* 
KANSAS Albert J. Gebcrt, '30. U, of Wichita. Wich­
ita, Kansas, President, Ban Welchons, '30, 
623 Elm St.. Ottawa, Kansas, Secretary, 
KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) 
Robert Tyler. '29. 3616 Paseo Blvd., Kan­
sas City, Mo., President. Charles E. Meyer, 
'29. 420 E. Armour Blvd., Kansas City, 
Mo., Secretary. 
KENTUCKY 
Basene J. Steuerle, '25, 1439 Willow Ave.. 
Louisville. President. John Bannon, '32, 
2011 Sherwood, Louisville, Secretary, 
LAPORTE, INDIANA 
Clarence Buncc, '25, 613 Ridee St,, Presi­
dent. Stephen Shapley. '30. Goodyear Tire 
Co., Secretary, Our Universal Notre Dame Night banquet was staged and "stagged" at the Rumely Hotel. In \'iew of the fact that we were proud of the success of the committee for the occasion con­sisting of Gordon Taylor, Al Smith 
and John F. Kelley, ably assisted by President Clarence Bunce, in bring­ing Dean Konop over as the principal speaker, we felt that it was the Notre Dame lawj'ers of LaPorte party, and rightly so. 
Dinner was served to 40 members and their guests. President Bunce in­troduced Toastmaster Al Smith (our worthy mayor) who waved the ham­mer with gusto, so much so that the autogi-aphed football which Elmer Layden SO graciously executed and forwarded as a door prize, found its way to Al's place at the banquet table. (Al tells me now that he is in a real dilemma. He doesn't know whether to present it to young Bud or Pat, so he has decided to carry it back and forth between his residence and the First National Bank Bldg., where he labors) Al should be void of "fumbling," after a season of that. 
The gathering heard a few words from Former Congressman Andrew 
J. Hickey, Judge Worden, Rev. Froh­ne and Father Magsam (newly ap­pointed to St. Peter's Parish here). 
Al then introduced our principal guest Dean Konop, who spoke most convincingly and authoritatively on the Supreme Court and the Constitu­tion, legally. Dean Konop also touched on the subject of political campaigning, decrying "back-biting" methods and "jealousy," in electing the representatives of the people, and asked that fairness and merits be substituted for them. 
.A.fter the meeting, the Moreau Choir and Father O'Hara's broadcast were heard from South Bend and Washington respectively, despite the unfavorable elements of Static & Co. 
Steve Shapley. 
* 
LOS ANGELES 
Thomas Heam. *15, 1120 Pacific Finance 
Bldg.. President Douglas Daley. '30. 781 
Geres Ave., Secretary. 
* 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI. 
p. E. Burke, '88, 307 Camp St, New Or­
leans, La., President Cyprian A. Sporl, 
Jr., '28, Whitney-Central Bldt-., New Or­
leans, La.. Secretary. 
I'm pleased to tell you that the annual Notre Dame Night here was a success, under the guidance of our president, Pat Burke. There was a banquet do«-n at Holy Cross College. Unfortunately, I was called out of the city and couldn't be with the boys, but was there in spirit. Bolan Burke, was kind enough to substitute for me on the radio program, and as expected, did a very good job of it. 
I know that the old timers will be pleased to learn that Fabian Johnson was on deck for the banquet and still has plenty of the old Notre Dame spirit and push. The de la Vergne brothers and my brother Harold were on hand to see that the good food which the Holy Cross Brothers put out was well taken care of. 

Marchmont Schwartz' father, who is a very enthusiastic Notre Dame backer, also honored us with his pres­ence. We also had the pleasure of having with us our good friend, Mr. Vitter. 
I know it will be of interest to the many friends of Chuck Jaskwhich to learn that the Holy Cross mentor is now the proud father of a baby girl. 
I had the pleasure of running into Eddie Byrne, '26, one morning on the subway on my last visit to New York. I regret I was unable to spend the week-end with him, as we had planned. 
I also had the pleasure of running 

into Mark Mooney one morning and 
he advised me that he is working for 
the General Electric Company and 
has been transferred to New York, 
where he and his wife and child plan 
to make their home. Both Eddie and 
Mark are in the best of health and 
spirits. 
Cyp Sporl. 
* 

MANILA 
Eduardo Roxos, '33, 719 EchaKue. Manila, President. Leopoldo Brias, Manila. Sec­retary. 

A thoughtful and much-appreciated cable from President Eduardo Roxas conveyed to the Alumni Association on Universal Notre Dame Night the felicitations of the Notre Dame Club of Manila. The message said: "Notre Dame Club of Manila joins other Notre Dame Clubs in the Celebration of Tonight." 
MEMPHIS 
Sturia Canale. '35, 620 S. Belvidere. Presi­dent. Lavin McNicIiolaa. '35, 591 N. Treze­vant St., Secretary. 

MILWAUKEE 
.Joseph CriiTin. "28. 210 E. Jlichiitan St.. President. .lean LaBoule. '29. 521 E. Mason St.. Sccret.irj-. 

I am happy to say that we had the biggest K:rowd we have ever had on Universal Notre Dame Night. Dinner was at the Milwaukee Elks Club. Election of officers for the new year immediately followed the dinner, the following men being elected: 
Jo e Griffin, president; William 
Brown, vice-president; Jean LaBoule, 
secretai-j'-treasurer. One of the reasons for the success of the dinner was our very able toast­master, Tom Kelly. Tom, Grover 
Miller, and Freeman Fitzgerald had 
a bit of a free-for-all, telling stories about their days on the campus. 
As our main speaker, we had Ol­iver O'Boyle, corporation counsel for Milwaukee County. Needless to say, we listened to the national broadcast from Washington. Harold Watson, president of the club, spoke over WTMJ and Chauncey Yockey spoke over WISN earlier in the evening, which helped everyone get in the spirit of the Night. 
Bill Fromm helped out a lot by 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
bringing some of the boys up from Racine. Through the radio and news­paper announcements we had a few men present that we did not know lived in town. Joe Kurth is in Mil­waukee. 
John £. Clauder. 
* 

MONTANA 
Dr. E. C. Jlonalian. '90. 418 Ilennessy BldK.. Butte, President. William B. Jones, '28, 411 Power Bids.. Helena. Secretary. 

On April 20, 1936 at Butte, Mon­tana we had our annual meeting of the alumni of the state. We had a pleasant "get-together." Bill Jones of Helena, Montana, will make a re­port to you in the near future. I am very happy to say he was selected president of the Club for the year of 1937. He is a grand fellow and a wonder to work with. 
Those present from Butte included Edward J. Foley, '27, Thomas A. Golden, '31, Torgus H. Oaas, '11, Bart L. Monahan, '96, Rev. Russell Scheidler, '30, Charles J. Slatt, '33. James P. O'Donnell, '15, Hugh O'­Keefe, '28, John Good, '31, and Dr. 
R. C. Monahan, '96. From Helena, Walter S. Yund, '13, Edward H. Sherman, '34, Anthony J. Ransavage, '31, William B. Jones, '31, Earl W. Brown, '93, Judge Albert J. Galen, '96, vice-president of the Association, and Victor Hilton Hall, '27, and J. B. Sherlock, '11, from Great Falls, Mon­tana. 
Dr. R. C. Monahan. 

NASHVILLE 
Robert P. Williams. Jr.. '29. 106 Gallatin Road. Secretary. 

NEW JERSEY 
Thomas Purcell, '27. 32 N. 16th St.. East OranBC, President. Raymond A. Geicer. *32, 446 Eastern Parkway, Irvington. Sec­retary. 
April 23. 
The New Jei'sey celebration of Uni­

versal Notre Dame Night was an in­
spiring success. 
Before an attendance of 160, Les­lie McDouall, Capt. M. P. Echols, 
Capt. Marsh, Rip Miller, Joe Byrne 
and sevei-al others gave t}T)ical Notre Dame speeches. With Art LeaMond as toastmaster, remininiscing over past Notre Dame occurrences, and Tom Purcell, present president, giving the modei-n slant of Notre Dame af­fairs, the speaking portion of the affair was in capable hands. 
A delicious steak dinner was served and entei-tainment was presented by professional entertainers provided from the Star Light Tei-race of the Essex House, in which club the ban­quet was held. 
To Ed Duggan, the chairman of the affair, goes a great deal of credit for the splendid success of the dinner. Time was taken out during the speak­ing portion of the evening to listen to the broadcast of the Notre Dame hour over WJZ, which was enjoyed thoroughly. 
We had our April meeting on April 6 at our new headquarters, The Es­sex House, Newark. There was a large turn-out of both old and new members, all of whom were well pleased with the new surroundings and the officers were hopeful that future meetings will see even a greater crowd turn-out. 
The Spring dance committee was asked for a report. Ed Kirby, the alumni chairman, reported that he had gotten in touch with the campus club president and that June 19 was the tentative date set for the dance. The secretary was asked to write the Mercier club of Montclair, to see that their dance does not conflict with ours. 
It was announced that new club officers will be elected at the May meeting. A large attendance for that meeting was especially urged. 
The trophy committee said that the cup presented in the name of Notre Dame to the St. Benedict's was given recognition at the recent track meet for the state championship, sponsored by that institution. 
Ray Geiger. 

NEW YORK CITY 
J. Norbert Cclsan. Jr.. '26. I20I Troy Ave.. Brooklyn. President. Warren S. FoRel. '30. 70 Wall St.. Secretary. 
The Board of Governors recently elected officers and here's the slate: 
J. Norbert Gelson, president; James F. Dwyer, vice-president; Leo 
V. McLaughlin, treasurer, and your correspondent as secretary. 
The Rockne Memorial Communion Breakfast of March 29 brought some 130 club members to pay homage to the spirit of the great leader. Mass was celebrated in St. Patrick's Ca­thedral at 9 o'clock and the breakfast was held at the Centre at 10. Mon­signor Fulton J. Sheen of Catholic Univeraity and Victor Eidder, the federal relief director for New York, were the principal speakers. Both gave stirring addresses, eulogizing the memory of Rockne and his great influence for good both at Notre Dame and abroad. 
Of course. Universal Notre Dame Night was our gala celebration of the year. About 175 sat down to dinner in the Green Room of the Hotel Mc-Alpin and were regaled with songs and stories by many prominent speakers and entertainers. The Glee Club of the Friendly Sons of St. Pat­rick entertained and the orchestral work was done by Bugs Walther, '25, and his boys. The speakers included Leo T. Macauley, consul-general of the Irish Free State; Leo J. Hickey, 
United States attorney for the east-em district of New York; Frank Wallace, '23, well-known sports-writer and novelist. Father Tom McAvoy, C.S.C., and Edward T. TJghe, retiring club president. 
A pleasant surprise was furnished by the appearance of Ray Miller, one of the famous five Miller brothers, and former mayor of Cleveland. Ray told many interesting stories of his days at Notre Dame which were en­joyed immensely by everj'one. The party was no doubt our most success­ful of the whole 13, due largely to the splendid efforts of Drew Shiebler as chairman. The grand climax was the receipt of the broadcast from Washington in which we listened to the words of Father O'Hara and Bishop McNaxnara. 
The Club plans much activity for this coming season and to that end, arrangements have been made to show the motion pictures of the Ohio State game at our monthly meeting early in May. Plans are also being made for a golf tournament and pic­nic in June and details will be an­nounced later. We also sei-ve notice that we are actively engaged in elec­tioneering for our prominent mem­ber, John T. Balfe, as vice-president of the Alumni Association. 
Warren S. Fogel, Secretary. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 

Mark G. Krcutzer. '24. 311 California St.. 
San Francisco. CaUf.. President. Elmer 
Wynne. '28. c-o E. S. Townsend Co., 15th 
FI., Russ BIdK.. San Francisco, Secretar>'­We had an unusually fine dinner meeting and celebration on annual Notre Dame Night at the Elks' Club. A loyal nucleus of 15 members were in attendance. Not much "whoopee," but plenty of serious discussion re­garding how this club could expand and strengthen and be more helpful in its representation. 
We were able to secure a half hour broadcast over KSFO from 8:30 to 
9:00. Elmer Wynne will write you more in detail about the above. 
We elected new officers as follows: Mark G. Kreutzer, president; Bernard 
J. Abrott, vice-president; Elmer Wynne, secretarj'. 
Keene Fitzpatrick. 

In a later letter Elmer Wynne gave a list of those present at the meet­ing. They included: Bernard J. Ab­brott. Royal Bosshard, Harry R. Burt, Paul J. Gushing, Keene Fitzpatrick, Ed Freitas, Mark G. Kreutzer, Ed­ward C. Massa, Robert L. McDonald, Elmer Wynne, William A. Rapp. 
OKLAHOMA 

Joaepfa A. Uoran, '32, 1611 S. Carson, T^I­
sa. President. Marion J. Blake. '33. Na­
tional Bank of Tulsa Bide.. Tulsa. Secre­
tary. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
OREGON 

Samuel M. Dolan. '10, 4726 N. E. -Mameda 
Drive. Portland. President. J. Ron Sulli­
van. '30, 611 Board ot Trade Bide, Port­
land, Secretarj'. Out here in the wilds of Oregon the Notre Dame Club observed Uni­versal Notre Dame Night in a com­mendable spirit of sobriety and ac­complishment to the tune of 26 mem­bers present and accounted for. Those answering hearty greeting of fellow N.D.'ers were: 
Ray Barrett, Arnold Peterscfamidt, Natt McDougal, Jr., Rev. E. P. Mur­phy, Frank Kiernan, Jack Naftzger, Rev. Oscar Hentges, C.S.C., Clyde Carroll, Fred Cunningham, Eugene Murphy, Maurice Conway, Sam Do­lan, John O'Hara, Dominic Callicrate, Hugh Lacey, Bill Schmitt, Charlie Hirschbuhl, Tom McMahon, Art Bu-tine, Harold Harstick, Jim Culligan, General J. P. "Patsy" O'Neil, Joe Morrissey, Bob Barrett, and your Cor­respondent. Later in the evening in came J. J. McCarthy and Dr. Shea. 
The meeting was held in the Tyro­lean Room of the Benson Hotel in Portland. 
We were unfortunate in not being able to pick up any of the N. D. broadcasts, though the attempt was made with a set provided for the pur­pose. 
In the absence of our president, Frank Lonergan, secretary Jim Culli­gan held down the rostrum. A gen­eral round table discussion was the theme of the evening, with special oratorical endeavors on the part of Gen. "Patsy" O'Neil, '83, Sam Dolan, '10, and Bob Barrett, '29. 
New officers elected for the com­ing year were: president, Sam Dolan; vice-president. Bill Schmitt; secre­tary-treasurer, your correspondent. 
Ron Sullivan. 
PARIS 

Louis P. Harl, '16, Paris Office, New York 
Herald-Tribune, Paris, France, President, 
* 
PEORIA 

Frederick J. Meyer, '33, Dunlap, Bl„ Pres­
ident. Al Gury, Jr., '28, 612 Albany Ave., 
Peoria, Secretary. 

One of Notre Dame's best friends, Spalding Institute of Peoria, honored Notre Dame and Elmer Layden on March 29 when Elmer was the chief speaker at the annual Spalding ath­letic banquet in the Pere Marquette Hotel. John Cassidy was the toast­master and Fred Meyer, president of the club, welcomed Elmer in the name of the alumni. Associated with Father Boniface Martin, O.S.B., prin­cipal of Spalding and Father AI­phonse Freehiil, O.S.B., athletic di­rector, many other local Notre Dame men assisted in planning and carry­ing out the affair. 
Elmer praised the coaching results of Johnny Noppenberger, former Spalding coach who is now at Peoria Central high school, and Joe Voegele, 
May, 1936 
whose Spalding basketball team this year, Joe's first season as coach, won the Catholic high school champion­ship of Illinois. The work of Marty Peters, a Spalding product, Elmer also praised highly, especially Marty's feat in kicking the field goal that beat Pittsburgh last Fall. Paul Winsouer, likewise from Spalding, Elmer listed as one of the leading candidates for center on the 1936 team. 
Word from Al Gury says that the Peoria club remembered Rock with a memorial Mass in St. Mary's Cathe­dral, Peoria, on Sunday, March 29, 
Bill Cemey, B team coach, and Marty Peters, native Peorian, were the guests of the Peoria club at its Universal Notre Dame Night banquet for 200 in the Pere Marquette hotel. Bill was the chief speaker and, in the words of the Peoria Star, he "concluded his fine oration with the showing of the films of the Notre Dame-Ohio State game of last Fall." Fred H. Young, sports editor of the Bloomington Pantograph, who was one of the officials in the Ohio State game, gave his thrilling version of that contest. 
Short talks were also made by Marty Peters, Joe Voegele, Fred Meyer, president of the club; and Joe Langton, chairman of the banquet committee. George Sprenger was the toastmaster. A picture of the head table shows, in addition to those listed, Wilbur Waterson, vice-pres­ident of the club, Father Bourke Mot-sett and Al Gury, secretary. 
Al says that plans are now being made for the annual summer picnic of the club. .\dds he: "If you want to see a real Notre Dame Club, come to Peoria." 
* 
PHILADELPHIA Walter Ridley. '31. 6S24 N. ISth St.. Pres­
ident. A. J. Wackerman. '35. 5356 Chew 
St., Secretary. 
First ranking news undoubtedly is that we elected the following new officers at our meeting March 5, pres­ident, Walter Ridley; ^•ice-president. William Cooney; treasurer, E. B. Bailey; secretary, A. J. Wackerman. To the Board of Governors for the two-year terms were elected John Reilly and William Castellini. 
Publicly I would like to express the gratitude of the club to Gerard Degan, retiring president, for the fine work he has done. 
Many members signed up to attend the Retreat at Malvern April 17-19, under the leadership of "Chief" Nee­son. -Another spiritual activity is the annual Memorial Mass for Knute K. Rockne celebrated March 29 at the Cathedral and followed by Commun­ion breakfast. 
The club lost a very fine member on the death of William K. Byrne. March 10. Mr. Byrne, though not an alumnus, has a son Conal, '36, at 

May, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Notre Dame, and was a most active and faithful man in our club. 
Gus Deich has been transferred in his business activities to Chicago. Best of luck, Gus. 
Bill Cooney. 

PHOENIX. ARIZONA 
E. John Hilkert. '22, Box 62. President. JuIiM J. Danch. "25, 3<3 N. 20th Ave.. Secretary. 

R. I. and SO. MASS. 
Leo R. McAIoon. '30. SCO Pawtuckct Ave.. Pawtucket. R. I. Presiilent. J. Clement Cirimes. 77 WiushinKton St., Providence. R. L, Secretary. 
Our Notre Dame Night was well 

celebrated here and once more the 
R. I. Reds got together for a grand food and gab festival, as only N. D. men can do. 
We had a dinner and entertain­ment in the Providence Crown Hotel and almost 100 attended. We had a large radio in the place all set to listen to the national hook-up but as the only New England station broad-easting the affair was in Springfield it was almost too difficult to cut out the local stations as one of the broad­casting stations of Providence is lo­cated atop the Crown Hotel. 
However, we had a fine program of our own and our good friend, Clem Grimes, was toastmaster of the eve­ning. Per usual Clem did a fine job. Father Thomas Duffy, C.S.C., a mem­ber of our club and head of the East-em Holy Cross Mission Band, deliv­ered a very fine talk, as did Father Frank Goodall, C.S.C, head of the Foreign Mission House at Washing­ton, D. C. 
Gene Dubuc, '08, a member of N.D.'s first basketball team, and now manager of the Rhode Island Hockey Team, showed up for the dinner and delighted the crowd ^vith stories of how the first basketball team was formed and how Father John Cava­naugh, who was president at that time, gave permission for the forma­tion. 
The surprise of the evening was the presence of Dr. Ellen Ryan Jolly, LL.D., who, after a remarkable come­back in health and restoration of sight, arrived at the dinner on the arm of her son. Jack Jolly, '19. She gave one grand talk regarding Notre Dame. Our Guild president. Miss Elizabeth McLaughlin (sister of John McLaughlin, '35) made her first offi­cial appearance as Guild head and convinced us that the R. I.-Notre Dame Guild is really going places. 
Did you know that our Guild has an active membership of 115 ladies, and that they are well on their way toward providing a scholarship fund for some young man from R. I. or 
S.E. Massachusetts at Notre Dame. Our Club and the Guild are working as a unit toward this purpose and it will be only a short time before the realization is fulfilled. 
Last night at the dinner Father Goodall and the Jolly family had a great reunion, as Father went to school with both James and Jack. 
John McLaughlin, '34, is again \vith us. He recently returned from Miami with a good coat of tan and a good job in his hand as a represen­tative for a large brewery here in 
R. L John has promised us all a goodly number of samples at a later date. 
Our club is planning a retreat at North Easton, at the Holy Cross Mission House and Seminary, and Father Duffy last night promised to attend our May meeting and explain the entire affair to the club members. We feel that it will be a great treat for us, and the fellows are now look­ing forward to it. 
Gene Moreau, '32, our R. I. Fed­eral probation officer, is now at Bos­ton University Law school furthering his education. Jack Brady, '34, (Boy Guidance) has been appointed as head coach at Mt. St. Charles Acad­emy in Woonsocket and has just fin­ished producing the finest basketball team in the state. He is now polish­ing up his baseball bats and is head­ing for the R. I. baseball champion­ship. 
Two weeks ago I met Charlie Mon­ahan, '30, of Worcester, as he was here in Pawtucket with Mrs. Mona­han %'isiting John Fitzgerald for a week-end. 
Jim Coogan, '27, of Fall River, has just bought a fann and is living "down country." However, his broth­er Bill never misses a meeting and keeps us informed regarding Jim's activities. 
Bob Monahan, of Worcester, who is attending Law School in Boston, is seen here in Pairtucket often. 
Our May supper meeting will be in Woonsocket and John McLaughlin is chairman for the evening. He plans a Father-and-Son night and is work­ing hard for a good time. 
Leo McAIoon. 

ROCHESTER, (New York) 
Peter J. Connelly, "33. 994 N. Goodman St, President: Frank Norton, "32, 80 Beck-with Terrace, Secretary. 

Universal Notre Dame Night was indeed appropriately celebrated in Rochester. The club turned out en viasse to a dinner meeting which ended only when everyone listened to Bishop McNamara, Father O'Hara and Bernard Vol). 
It really was an old-timer's night. President Pete Connelly introduced Joe Flynn, the old stand-by. Art Cur­ran, who delivered an inspiring mes­sage, and Harold P. Burke, Roches­ter's corporation counsel, who deliv­ered as humorous a reminiscence on old Notre Dame as I believe anyone ever heard. In attendance were Emil Reidman, '14, Joe Miller, Ray Gappy« now with New York Life, and Frank Quinlan who flanked the old-timers' vanguard. 
Glenn Hatch, '28, is now with Penn-Dixie Cement corporation. Arnold Morrison and Frank Morrison passed one another the rolls and olives as did John McCarthy. Joe De Bott, '28, is now booking insurance. Jerry Smith, my relief man and general all-around build-up guy, divided refresh­ments with me. Ray Mead has some­thing to do with a company manufac­turing a very thin paper. Ward Schlotzer is still the grand old Ward. Ray Guppy plans to write a lot of the life insurance trusts this year. Harold McCabe makes you and me color con­scious for Eastman Kodak. BUI Bell still takes your temperature with the thermometer firm. Jim Gleason, '34. has been accorded the honor of being appointed to the president's field staff of Phoenix Mutual, which is national recognition. Joe Tiemey was in evi­dence with the old-timers. Norb Baglin works as only Norb can for the club's interests. Karl Scherer still uses his chemistry course to run his dad's drug business. 
Karl Brennan, thank Heaven, has been moved back to Rochester by W. 
T. Grant & Company and is doing well. Bill Merriman is likewise con­nected with Eastman Kodak. Jim McGrath provided entertainment tell­ing us of his days on the baseball team. Frank Connelly ate his share of muffins and celery. Dick SuIliTao. '32, is with Ernst & Ernst balancing budgets. Bill Jones adjusts your in­surance when you smash into a Mack truck. Frank DeClerck is still a but­ter and egg man, but from the East. Bernard Hennessy's building firm helps to reconstruct the country. Gerry Farrell likewise does building. John Gilooly is nicely launched into life's bigness. Larry Carpenter proved an entertaining story-teller. Dick Tobin sticks his finger in your ketch­up to test its chemical qualities. Ray Margrett was a demon hockey star this season. Wall Mallins rises each morning with Rudy Vallee's yeast for Standard Brands. Malcolm McVean is connected with a Scotch firm deal­ing, I think, in perishables. Anthony Culkin, '32, superintends a portion of our park system. Ed Gretchen and the HOLC see to it that you erect your bungalow of dreams. 
Leon Lynch travels for Rochester Gas & Electric. Jerry (Kid) Ashe. your side-kick, shunts cars to and fro for Merchants' Despatch in Buffalo. Johnny Dorschel is connected with a finance company with main offices in South Bend. 
Joe Doran was unable to attend due to legal business. Wilbur Shee­han was also unable to favor us be­cause of engineering demands. 
All in all, it was a swell old time. A plan or a suggestion for a partial scholarship was advanced. 
We as a club are pledged to in­creased activities and we promise to step out as a ^\•inner among the coun­try's alumni clubs. Watch our Smoke! 
Frank Norton, Secretarj'. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY (Illinois) 
Raymond C. Maralli. 'a?, 1312 Young St.. Kockford. m.. President. Francis W. Howland. 'aS, 902 N. Main St. Kockford, HI., Secretary. 
* 
SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) 
Thomas F. Van Aarie, '21, Standard Oil Co., Saginaw, Mich.. President. William 
G. Hurley, '25, 117 Cherry St., Saginaw, Mich.. Secretary. 
The Saginaw Valley Club, accord­ing to a letter early in April from President Tom Van Aarle, was to ob­serve Universal Notre Dame Night with a dance in the Euclid Club, Baj' City. Ed Kerns and many others were working with Tom to insure the success of the affair. 
SAN ANTONIO 
William V. Didmann, Jr., '25, 107 Thel­ma Drive, President. Edward G. Conroy, 
•30. 204 E. Craic PI., Secretary. 
* 
SIOUX CITY, IOWA 
Vincent F. Harrington, '25, Continental Mortgage Co.. President. 
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
Michael F. Kinney, '31, State House, Pres­ident. John Troy, ex. '28. 800 S. Ninth St., Secretary. 
* 
ST. LOUIS 
Hobert Hellrung. '30, 306 N. Grand Blvd.. President: David J. Reillcy. Jr.. '30. 1115 Louisville Ave., Secretary. 
John Scannell, head of the De­partment of Physical Education, was the guest of the St. Louis Club at its well - attended Universal Notre Dame Night dinner, engineered by the able and ever - enthusiastic Bob Hellrung, club president. John spoke on present campus activities and there were monies illustrating the technical fine points of football. Through an unfortunate slip on the part of the Alumni Office staff (in the midst of a million details for the Night) the game pictures which John was to have brought from the University weren't brought. The staff offers sincere apologies. 
The disappointment may now be softened by the announcement that, through Bob's effort, Elmer Layden will bring the Ohio State films to St. Louis in the near future for an out­standing Notre Dame gathering. The program will be announced soon. 
Fred Switzer, '28, has a second ad­dition to his family. 
Dave Rielley, '30, has made a complete change. From Festus J. Wade to Jletropolitan St. Louis Co. Investments and then from single to mairied life. 
John Igoe, '28, formerly of Elyria, Ohio, is now permanently located in St. Louis with the National Tube Company. 
Dr. Fran Kenendy, '25, specialist 
in ear, nose and thi-oat, is doing quite well—a new baby and a new house. 
Paul Koprowski, '31, formerly of Two Rivers, Wisconsin is now situ­ated ^vith Catholic Charities Welfare Organization and is taking post grad­uate work at St. Louis University. 
Ed Radzuk, M.A., '32, now teach­ing at St. Louis University, has won for himself a scholarship to study at Oxford for the next t\vo years. More details later. 
Vince Fehiig. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Louis F. Buckley. '28. 718 E..Corby Blvd.. 
South Bend. Ind.. President, Clarence Har­
ding. '25, South Bend Tribunr, South Bend. 
Ind.. Secretary. 
Father John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., president of the Universitj', was the principal speaker at the annual Rockne breakfast which the club had in the Faculty Dining Hall on the campus on Sunday morning, March 
29. Preceding the breakfast Father John Farley, C.S.C., read Mass at the St. Olaf shrine in Dillon Hall and the 100 club members in attendance re­ceived Communion. 
Ed Meefaan, president of the na­tional monogram men's group, pre­sided at the breakfast and introduced Elmer Layden, in addition to Father O'Hara. Elmer spoke briefly on the desirability of the local club estab­lishing a scholarship in Rock's memoi-j". 
Father O'Hara spoke on Rockne's apologetics mission; to Catholic s everj-where in the country, he said, Rockne's Fighting Irish represented their heroes. Rockne, taking on all comers and exemplifying the best in good sportsmanship, became, even be­fore he himself joined the Catholic church, an unofficial champion of the faith. He was the answer Catholics gave when taxed by the Ku Klux Klan or other forces. Father O'Hara said. 
Thus was leadership in Catholic Action forced upon Notre Dame, he said, through the name and fame of Rockne. In carrjing on this apolo­getics mission the University's next major step. Father O'Hara said, will be establishment next Fall of a gi-ad­uate course in apologetics for lay­men. 
Following the breakfast the club members, together with the members of the student Monogram club, vis­ited Rock's grave in Highland ceme­tery and decorated it with -ivreaths. Father Farley said brief praj'ers. 
One hundred alumni of St. Joseph Valley celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night at a smoker in the Lay Faculty Dining Room on the campus. Father Eugene Burke, 'OG, acted as master of ceremonies. Clarence Har­ding and Francis Lavengood saw that the meeting got off to a good start with several musical numbers. The music was followed by a fencing ex­hibition by Kevin Kehoe and Carlos de Landero, regional champions in saber fencing. 
The rest of the program was broad­cast through the South Bend Tribune stations. Music was furnished by the Univei-sity Glee Club, under Joseph Casasanta, '23. Talks were given by 
Elmer Layden, '25, and Rev. Hugh 
O'Donnell, C.S.C., '16. At 9:30 the National Broadcasting Company's ra­dio program was received from Wash­ington, D. C, which was followed by a buffet supper. 
The directors elected at the meet­ing were: Louis F. Buckley, Louis C. 
Chapleau, Floyd R. Searer, James Ash, James Boland, Joseph Donahue, William J. Furey, Aaron Huguenard, Elmer Layden, Walter Mclnerny, E. 
M. Morris, Dillon Patterson. 
The following officers were elected by the Board of Directors at their meeting on April 23: Chairman of the Board, Francis Jones; Honoi-arj' 
President, Dr. John B. Berteling; 
Chaplain, Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C.; President, Louis F. Buckley; Vice-president, Louis C. Chapleau; Secretarj', Clarence W. Harding; Treasurer, Floyd R. Searer; Assistant Treasurer, John De Wilde. 
Plans were made for a Spring Golf Day under the direction of Elmer Layden and Herbert Jones. Bill Furey was appointed chairman of a committee to ari-ange for a Spring dance. The Club is looking forward to another active year by scheduling these two events for the month of May, which were cso successful last year. 
Clarence Harding. 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 
Ward L. Leahy. '26, 307 Forest Hill Drive, Syracuse, President Francis J. Cashier, ex. '34, 111 Wendell Ave., Syracuse, Sec­retary. 
* 
TIFFIN, OHIO 
C. J. Schmidt, '11. 260 Melmore St. Prcs­
-ident. Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St, Secretary. 
TOLEDO 
Norbcrt Scharf, '26, Toledo Edison Co., President Joseph L. Wetll. '31. 717 Starr Ave., Secretary. 
Coach George Keogan was the 
campus guest of the Toledo Club at a splendid gathering. 

May, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 237 
TRI-CITIES (Illinois-Iowa) 
George Uhlmeyer, •23, Peoples* Power Co., 
Davenport, la.. President. 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) 
Joseph Hunt, Binffhamton. President. Wil­
liam Ycaser, '31. IS Vine St., Binshamtan. 
Sccrctarj'. 
Our local club cei-tainly did its part in the obser\'ance of Universal Notre Dame Night. WNBP, the local broad­casting station, offered the club its facilities at two different hours dur­ing the day. At noon, Notre Dame songs were broadcast and Pete Wacks, chairman in charge of the day's activities, delivered an address on the obsei"vance of Universal Notre Dame night. Early that evening a skit was put on by some of the mem­bers. It was fine. We have some top­notch radio dramatists in Ed. O'Brien, Bill Hogan, Reggie McNamara, Ted Grififin, Jim Hogan, John Donnelly and Pete Wacks. 
As has been the custom, officers for the coming j'ear were elected after the banquet that night. The officers are president, Joe Hunt; vice-presi­dent, John Donnelly; secretary, Wil­liam Yeager; treasurer, Alphonse Mc­Cormick. Bill Hogan, retiring presi­dent, did much for our club during the past year and deserves the hearty thanks of all its membei-s. Joe Hunt is assuming responsibility for the coming year and I am sui"e he will have full cooperation. 
The addresses fx'om Washington, D. C, were thoroughly enjoyed, particu­larly that of Father O'Hara. 
I might say that our singing during the evening was very good—^I mean loud. We not only did justice to the school songs but to some of the old favorites, too. Reggie McNamara sang "I Wanta Girl." Alphonse Mc­Cormick saved the day on the few oc­casions Reggie's voice quivered. We finally rounded out the evening after having decided that in the future we would have regular monthly meetings second Tuesday in each month. Our first meeting is to be May 12 and all members are expected to be present. 
Bill Yeager. 

TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) 
John D. Yelland, '30, 3221 Holmes Ave.. 
So., Minneapolis, President: Josepli R. 
Schrocder. '31, 219 Fremont Ave., N., 
Minneapolis. Secretary. 
Here is a little dope on our U.N.D. Night meeting. Mike Layden was the star of the evening. His talks, and he was called on three times, were very impressive. He explained how the alumni could assist in interesting prospective students to come to Notre Dame. He gave a summary of foot­ball prospects for this coming Fall. (This was after Frank Mayer had read letters from Coach Joe Boland, and Jim Costin, sports ivriter of South Bend.) He then gave us a run-
Or Have You Heard About It? ALUMNI REUNION June 5, 6 and 7. 

ning description of the Ohio State pictures. The fellows were cheering most of the time. 
Danny Coughlin, editor of the Waseca Herald, was toastmaster for the evening, and his introduction of the speakers and the humorous side remarks that he added gave a lot of pep and enthusiasm to the party. Joe Benda, in a very fine talk, expressed his appreciation of the Eeligous Bul­letin and the lessons that it contains. 
Joe O'Hara, attorney from Glen­coe, and former state commander of the American Legion, kept up the in­terest of the party through his remi­niscences and stories of some of the alumni whom he had watched enter and graduate from Notre Dame, and who were now successful in their business careers. 
Frank Mayer did a grand job of giving us a mental picture of next year's football team, but his letter and comments and his questions to Mike Layden also did a great deal towards the success of the evening. 
We w^ere on the air for 15 min­utes during the evening over station WTCN and S. P. Skahan gave a very fine address explaining the purpose of Universal Notre Dame Night. Dr. 
D. M. Culligan honored us with a song which brought much laughter from the entire group. The title of this song was "Where Are the Irish at Notre Dame." 
Others at the speaker's table were Father Bemie Coughlin, William A. Boland of Waverly, Eugene O'Brien, and Tom Lee. Tom was chairman of the party, and he and his committee certainly arranged one of the best parties that the group has ever en­joyed. There were about 75 men at the banquet, so it ^vill be impossible for me to tell you all about them in this letter. 
However, I might mention Tom Taughber, whose home is in Knox­ville, Tennessee, but who happened to be in Minneapolis that night. Tom met many of his old classmates at the dinner. He is with the U. S. Treasui-y Department. 
Jack Yelland. 

UTAH 
Raymond R. Brady, '24. 20S Keams Bid?., 
Salt Laltc City, President. Cyril Harbccke, 
•19. 64 F. St. Salt Lake City, Secretary. 

UTICA, NEW YORK 
Dr. John F. Kclley, '22, Peoples' Gas & 
Electric BldB., President Joseph W. Pul­
lem, '31, 1621 Neilson St. Secretary. 

WABASH VALLEY, (Indiana) 
Paul Kennedy, '24. Templeton, Indiana, President Emmett FerBuson, '32, Wallace Building, Lafayette, Indiana, Secretary. 
WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT 
John Kobinson, '28. 32 Farmington Ave., President. James M. Monaehan, *27, 44 Ayer St. Secretary. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Joseph Bach. '26. Fort Pitt Hotel, Presi­dent William Maearrall. '32, 1439 Frank­lin Ave.. Wilkinsburg, Secretary. 
Needless to say, seemingly. Uni­versal Notre Dame Night brought out a large crowd, the food (and bever­age), the broadcast, the entertain­ment, the general fraternity which comes with this occasion, and the presence of the three honored guests: burly Big Jim Weaver, Cookie Lava­getto, and Bud Hafey of the Pirate ball club, all contributed to a very enjoyable evening. Each of the ball players gave a short talk after the banquet. 
Without intending to slight any­one I may forget to mention the fol­lowing are the ones I gabbed with during the festivities: Red Reardon and George Schill are working for the pretty common Commonwealth of Pennsylvania; Joe Clarke, Na­trona's Big Jim Farley brought Fa­ther Donald, our retreat master of last January, whom we were all again happy to see; Bill McCulIough was coaxed into coming to the first N. D. function since he last saw the Palais; 
Hughie Gallagher left for Harrisburg a few days after to get a break; Hughie will join Dick O'Donnell, Bill O'Toole, and Jim Harrigan, who are all down there. 
Dick O'Toole is doing doctor duty in Cleveland. Last Summe r Joe O'Rourke stopped in to see me and told me he's been nomading around the eastern section of the country since leaving school. Bob Hartman and I were opposition candidates for this job—^I'm beginning to wonder if he shouldn't have won?—. Jim Dod­son is over at the Press with Vince Sweeney, but not in the same depart­ment; I get a chance to see John Briley every once in a while when he is looking for the best dinner on the avenue. Turk Meinert hasn't changed a bit. Hughie Boyle had to listen to what I thought was a classic story of mine till Joe Bach ribbed me through every detail. 
Phil Hickey is way up in the back­woods of Pennsylvania doctoring the boys at a C.C.C. outfit; he took a life partner last January. Tom Conroy was wading knee deep in water around here while brother Bemie was wading over his head in Burbank, California sunshine. I used to see the class of '33 Jim Devlin once in a while, but he hasn't been around late­ly. Gene Coyne is still going to Du­
238 The Notre Dame Alumnus May, 1936 
quesne law school. I wish I would run into John or Dick Donohue SO I could pay them the money I owe them!. Bill Ginder is metallurgin' with Jones and Laughlin Steel Com­pany. Frank Hegarty, Tex Brieger and I intend to have our own Notre Dame Night sometime, but can't seem to fit it in; was my pan crimson when I called Paul Gray, Bob. 
Chick Sheedy has three novenas rootin' to pull him through the com­ing State Board exams. Eddie Mc­Bride tipped me off on a few of the duties of this job since he held the spot last year. Clipper Smith makes the fourth consecutive boss that Dr. O'Donnel) has had to work under at Duquesne. Joe Mooney will tell you from dark to dawn of the extreme bliss of bachelorhood. Ed Neible stops in once every so often when his in­surance duties bring him my way. Someone was telling me that Bill Steitz is the youngest member of the local Rotary gi-oup. Qui Witt and Chuck O'Toole were engineerin' for Booth and Flinn but have left that company. 
The following officers for the year were chosen: Joe Bach, president; Al Diebold, Jr., vice-president; Vince Burke, treasurer; Bill Magarrall, sec­retar}-. 
Bill Magarrall. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 
John J. Dempsey. '95. Dempscy Imnber Co., Tacoma. President. Robert I. Pieott. 
•S2. 925 12th Ave.. K., Seattle, Secretary. 
WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA 
Thomas F. Howley, '11, Citizens-Peoples Trust Go.. Wheding, President. George SarguJ, *28, 2111 Belmont, Bellaire, Ohio, Secretary. 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
John Uoran, '29, 1348 Quinn, President. Qiarlea Cushwa, '31. 463 Madera Ave., Secretary. 
* 
WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
Sister M. Fredericli, &S.a, St. Mary's Collese, Notre Dame. Ind., President. Sis­ter M. Aneelice, B.V.M., Secretary. 
* 
New Clubs Are Formed 
Universal Nighi Is The Occasion for Meetings 
SOUTHERN WEST VIRGINIA To Father O'Hara came this mes­sage on the morning of April 21 from Vince Reishman and Bill Kenney, of Charleston, West Virginia: "Congrat­ulations on Universal Notre Dame Night. Best wishes from a newly organized alumni group from South-em West Virginia meeting in Charles­ton for the first time. Seventeen Notre Dame men present. Judge Hudson addressed the group extend­
ing wishes for continued success in 
Noti-e Dame activities." 
Vince and Bill were the prime 
movers in organizing the new club. 
To them, all praise and gratitude— 
and a gentle request for fuller in­
formation when they have a couple 
of spare minutes. 
CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA 
An April 14 letter from Leonard 
Burns, grand knight of Altoona 
Council, Knights of Columbus, said 
that the boys in Altoona were meet­
ing that night to lay plans for organ­
izing a Central Pennsylvania Club on 
Universal Noti-e Dame Night. 
Len was in charge of the Notre 
Dame program which Station WFBG, 
Altoona, put on the air on Sunday 
evening, April 19. 
Non-Club Groups 
Meet 
Battle Creek And Versailles Are Centers 
BATTLE CREEK, MICHIGAN In reply to your request of April 9, I contacted Radio Station WELL relative to arrangements for a Notre Dame program over the said station on the evening of April 20. Mr. Fos­ter Owen, program director, and Frank Lj-nn, his assistant, were most helpful with their suggestions and various plans which they proposed. I thought, rather than merely giv­ing a talk on this occasion, that it would be better to have as many of the local alumni participate in the program as possible, and thereby have a meeting of the local alumni in keep­ing with the spirit of Universal Notre Dame Night. We did this and the following alumni and former students were engaged in the program which was given: Frank L. "Cy" Condon, Wilfred Haughey, Lawrence Graves, Edward Baum, Frank Murray, Lewis Sinclair, Robert Whalen, and myself. 
This was the first time that any meeting of alumni ever took place in this citj' or vicinity. There are only a few of us here and it has never been deemed advisable to start a club. We all enjoyed the occasion and were informed, after the broadcast took place, that the program proved to be very interesting to radio listeners. We used a dialogue which was sug­gested in your pamphlet. The pro­gram was opened and closed with Notre Dame songs. I believe I speak for all the Notre Dame men in this vicinitj' when I say that we would be very glad, in the future, to continue this activitj- on these occasions. 
Harold Steinbacher, 
VERSAILLES, KENTUCKY 
James A. McKee, '93, loyal and enthusiastic alumnus, planned a spe­cial gathering in his home near Ver­sailles for Universal Notre Dame Night, with all the alumni and for­mer students from Versailles, Lex­ington, Frankfort and adjacent terri­tory as his guests. 
Earlj' in April he wrote: "I am fat­tening a spring lamb especially for the occasion and will have also the best Kentucky ham I can find. Of course, other Kentucky products con­ducive to conviviality will be ready for the needy." 
Whose mouth is watering now? 
CAMPUS NOTES 
(Continued from Page 222) 
apolis Star . . . Honorable mention was given to Jim Murphy, Pontiac, Illinois, and John McAuIiffe, of Chi­cago . . . Professor Paul C, Bartholo­mew, of the Politics Department, con­ducted his fourth annual tour to Washington . . . Twenty-five students made the trip during the Easter va­cation . . . They had tea (hooray) at the Japanese embassy, heard the Su­preme Court hand down a few deci­sions and attended a Congressional committee hearing. . . . 
The University golf course had its official opening . . . The Glee Club, which was to have toured the East during the Easter vacation, was forced to cancel its engagement be­cause of the floods . . . Big Bill Til­den and his troupe (Bruce Barnes, Jane Sharp, and Mrs. Ethel Arnold) staged an exhibition in the gymna­sium . . . Approximately 50 students traveled home for their Easter vaca­tions by airplane . . . The Notre Dame laundry cleans, on the average, over 7,000 shirts each week . . . We don't air our dirty linen in public. . . 
• 
STILL MORE The second annual Indiana Catho­lic high school oratorical contest, sponsored by the Wranglers, campus forensic organization, was won by Chester Klciak, of Catholic Central High school, Hammond, Indiana . . . Father Nieuwland, in collaboration with Dr. Prank Sowa, of the Chemis­try Department, presented a paper at the 91st meeting of the American Chemical Society in Kansas City, Mis­souri . . . Along with the Rev. Leo 
K. Ward, C.S.C, of the Department of Philosophy, Father Nieuwland was included in an illustrated biographical directory of prominent American ed­ucators published in New York . . . Shakespeare's "Comedy of Errors" was produced by the University Thea­tre players . . . Students took the part of the female characters in the best Shakespearean tradition. . . . 
Don't forget—June 5, 6 and 7. 

» »
THE ALUMNI 
ENGAGEMENTS 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Vivian Hoff­man and Paul H. Brokhage, '29. 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Mary Jean Swinsick and Jo>eph W. Bean, '33. 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Mary Her­man and James T. Gartland, '34. 
MARRIAGES 
Miss Dorothy Ahem and Joseph A. Laughlin, '32, were married April 13, in Morrissey Chapel, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Eosemaiy Gies and Daniel Regan, '33, were married April 18, in Great Falls, Montana. 
Miss Doris Elizabeth Roberts and Charles S. Morris, '35, were married April 12, in Whitesboro, New York. 
Miss Euth Burghart and John M. Stackpoole, '29, were married last December 28, in Lake Forest, Illinois. Bob and Bill Burghart, '32, ushered. 
Miss Ruth Dentinger and William 

E. Reisert, ex. '30, were married April 27, in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. 
Miss Margaret Cecilia Pierron and Louis Brennan, '32, were married April 13, in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene (Scrapiron) Young, '27, announce the birth of a son, Eugene, April 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul C. Bartholomew, 

'29, announce the birth of a son, Thomas Charles, March 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward A. Riley, ex. '32, announce the birth of a son, Thomas, March 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jerome DeClerq, '28, announce the birth of twins, a son and daughter, March 21. 
Mr. and Mrs. F. A. Genin, '29, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Teresa Dolores, April 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. Ward O'Connor, '31, announce the birth of a son. Ward Joseph, last September 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. William P. Carroll, Jr., '33, announce the birth of a son, William P., Ill, March 31. 

Mr. and Mrs Robert Hamilton, '34, announce the birth of a daughter, -4.pril 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas McMahon, '29, announce the birth of a daughter, April 12. 
DEATHS 
Dr. J. F. Kearney, a student at Notre Dame from 1894 to 1900, died April 9, in Chicago, Illinois. Dr. Kear­ney was bom in Dixon, Illinois, but had lived in Chicago for many years, where he was a physician with the Penn Mutual Life Insurance Com­pany, in addition to his private prac­tice. 
Word has been received through returned -mail, of the death of Charles E. Blackman, '99, of Minne­apolis, Minnesota. 
Peter J. Jacobs, a student at Notre Dame in 1885, died April 17, at his home in Stevens Point, Wisconsin. Mr. Jacobs was president of the Hardware Dealers Mutual Fire Insur­ance Company, and founder and di­rector of the Hardware Mutual Cas­ualty Company in Stevens Point. 
Charles Schneider, a student at 

Notre Dame from 1859 to 1861, died at his home in Oregon, Illinois, on February 10. Mr. Schneider had been identified with the banking business in Oregon for more than 60 yeai-s, and had served several terms as mayor of the city. He retired from active duty about four years ago. 
The .A.LUMXUS extends sincer e sympathy to: Robert Measer, ex. '34, upon the death of his mother; John 
W. Stanford, '35, upon the death of his father, and Grattan Stanford, '04, upon the death of his brother; Daniel Clark, '31, upon the death of his father. 
PERSONALS 
Refore 1880 Hon. Thomas F. GallaB-
Deror e lOOU ^^^_ Fitchburg. Mass. 
isa n IfUlIt Prof. Robert M. Anderson, 
lOOU-lOOO CircleviUe. Ohio 
Dr. Samuel P. Terry, 1834 San Jose Avenue, Alameda, California, through many years one of the Alum­ni Office's most valued workers and correspondents, writes, in part, as fol­lows: "In my own class of 1883 I have kept up quite a regular corre­spondence with certain members for very many years, such as Albert Zahm, Cosmos Club, Washington, 
D. C ; Robert M. Anderson, retired, Guilford Road, Circleville, Ohio; W. 
J. (Skinny) Mc Carty, Southern and Western Life Insurance Company, American Hotel, Cincinnati, Ohio; General Joseph P. O'Neil, retired, Portland, Oregon. 
"I will be 75 on May 15 next. And, excepting for an old chronic, rheu­matic trouble, I feel as when a stu­dent at Notre Dame and have always very much for which to be thankful. Intimate associates of those early days (a few) are George S. Tracy, a lawyer of Burlington, Iowa; Ben Pollock, lumber, St. Louis; Hector B. Dulaney, Elks' Club, Los Angeles, California; Dr. Joseph Krost, Mar­shall Field -A.nnex, Chicago; Judge Knickham Scanlon, Probate Court, Chicago; George M. Witwer, St. Jos­eph Loan and Trust Company, South Bend; Sol Henoch, LaPorte, Indiana; Frank J. Rettig, manufacturer, Wa­bash, Indiana, et al." 
General O'Neil himself sends in a note to give his present address— 2232 N.W. Everett Street, Portland. 
1886 ^'"^d O. Bona, 338 S. Second St.. 
Hamilton. Ohio 
GOLDEN ANNIVERSARY REUNION June 5, 6 and 7 

1AA 7 IJUIA John !«. Heineman. Connets­
100« lOOO ^j„^_ Indiana. 
188 9 ^-^ Burke, 301 Cunp St.. New Or­
leans. La. 

1KQft.1A<>? Louis F. Chute, T University 
109U-109 a ^^.^ Minneapolis. Minn. 
lAQ ^ Hugh A. O'Donnell, 1 W. Slth St., 
'•""^ New Yorlc City. 
|QA e Eustace Cullinan. Sr., 860 Phelan 
xoi7>> gyj,_ g ^ Francisco. Calif. 
R. B. Stack, baseball star at Notre Dame in 1894-95, was elected a coun­cilman in Escanaba, Michigan, at the recent election, according to a thoughtful note from John Lemmer. 
1il4 R William P. Bums, 327 WiUard Ave.. 
*°" ' Michigan City. Ind. 
1897 ^^-'-^ HacNanuua, St. Joseph's 
•"' Sanitarium, Mt. Clemens, MIefa. 
* 

189 8 William 0. Kesler, 9th and Sycamore 
sos o Sts., Cincinnati, Ohio. 
ISQQ Cr. Joseph F, Ihiane. 41S JciTerson *""'* ' Blvd.. Peoria. Tl. 
140(1 J"!"" 'W- EgBcman, Old First Bank 
I0VV Bids.. Ft Wayne. Ind. 
1Q01 Joseph J. Sullivan. 1300. 139 N. *^ " Dark St.. ChicaEO. HI. 
1402 C. C. Mitchell, 110 S. Dearborn St. ^ Box 3. ChicaEO. BI­
140^ Francis P. Bnrke. 904 Trust Co. **'"* ' Bids.. Milwaukee. Wis. 
1904 ^'•'rt Proctor. Monger Bids.. Elk­hart. Ind. 
140'? Daniel J. O'Connor. 10 S. IjiSalle St ^"" ^ Chicaso. m. 
14nf> Thomas A. Lally. 811-13 Paulsen iOUD Bids.. Spokane. Wash. 
1907 ^' - Thomas E. Bnrke. C. S. C, No­tre Dame. Ind. 
1408 Frank X. Cull. Bulkloy Bldg.. Cleve­
*^" ° tend. Ohio. 
Henry Weiss, formerly of Kansas Cit>% Missouri, has been elevated by the AUis - Chalmers Manufacturing Company to the post of manager of the Buffalo, New York, office, is al­ready established in the Libertj- Bank Building there and has made some verj' enjoyable Notre Dame contacts. 
1909 ^- ^- Cl'^^- Notre Dame, Ind. 
* 
1910 ^"^^^ ^-^ Moriarty, 1900 Euclid Ave. Cleveland. Ohio. 
1411 ^• ^ Steers. 1635 First National ^ Bank Bide. Chicago. HI. 
SILVER 
ANNIVERSARY REUNION 
June 5, 6 and 7 
The Class of 1911 will hold its Silver Anniversary Reunion at Com­mencement, June 5, 6 and 7. Come back and renew acquaintances and live again the best days of our lives when worries were absent and the world was at our feet, to be con­quered by us, pronto, the day after our graduation. 
The privilege of seeing old faces and renewing old acquaintances will repay you many times and the recol­lection of a few days on the campus with old friends will ser\'e to make life sweeter and better through the coming years. You will be afforded entertainment and edification by the varied program of the Commence­ment, or if you choose, you may just loll under the trees and chat or dream. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

There will be a luncheon on the campus, which -n-ill pro%'ide an oppor­tunity to swap reminiscences and ex­periences and give our fellows an occasion to discover what the ravages of time have done to us. 
You afar off, with a good and suffi­cient excuse for not attending, will kindly send to your humble secretary a full report of yourselves, so that your more fortunate classmates may have the pleasure of hearing from all of our group. 

To make our Reunion a complete success, it is necessary that you be with us, so kindly make arrangements accordingly, if you possibly can do so. 
I will appreciate it if you will com­municate with me. Fred L. Steers, secretarj". 
A comparison of American univer­sities with those of western Europe is made by Father Charles Miltner, C.S.C, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, in an article in a recent issue of Commoniveal. Father Miltner is spending the year in study at Louvain in Belgium. 

Fred Steers recently received from James Sherlock, president and manager of the Montana Land and Loan Company, Great Falls, Montana, a long and interesting letter in which Jim outlines his activities since leaving the campus back in 1911. After a period with the Northern Na­tional Bank, Great Falls, he became associated with the real estate and in­surance business and, in 1933, was appointed vendor of the liquor store in Great Falls. He was married in 1917. Jim has maintained through the years a close connection •ivith Notre Dame acti\'ities in Montana and is an active member of the club there. He adds: 
"Early in October, 1935, my wife and I spent several pleasant hours on the campus in company ^vith our good friend,. Father John Farley, C.S.C, who took gi-eat pleasure in recounting the experiences of our old friends in 1910 and 1911. My name is still among the group of members that formed the charter class of the Knights of Columbus in their quar­ters in Walsh Hall. 

"It will be impossible for me to be present in June personally to attend the class reunion. Please remember me to our old friends, John Tully, Ray Skelly and other members of the class of 1910 and 1911 who may be in your citv. Please forward me Mr. TuUy's address." 
1912 ^ •'• Kaiser, 324 Fourth St, Pitt»­
burgh. Pa. 
A telegram—^which shows how im­portant he thinks the matter is— from Class Secretary Kaiser says: "Please call to the attention of my 
May. 1936 
class in the next issue of the .ALUM­NUS the importance of a large at­tendance at the next Commencement. Also that a special meeting will be held for the purpose of formulating a plan of action for our silver anni­versary next year." 
It goes, almost without saying, that Ben himself will be on the campus for this year's Commencement, on June 5, 6 and 7. He and Fred Steers, 1911 secretaiy, have been talking, tentatively, of having a joint meet­ing of the Dix reunion classes, 1911, 1912, 1913 and 1914, -irith the co­operation of Jim Devitt and Frank Hayes and their gangs. 
At any rate, even if that can't be arranged in the limited time avail­able, Ben definitely is planning a gathering of the 1912 boys to start plans for the big anniversary in 1937. The meeting this year will probably be either Friday evening or Satur­day noon. There will be definite in­formation available as to place and time when the 1912er3 reach the campus. 
1913 J'^ss J- Devitt 921 Engineers Bide.. 
Cleveland. Ohio. 
Paul Byrne, able head of the Uni­versity librarj', presided at one of the sessions of the recent convention of the Catholic Library Association in St. Louis. Paul is a vice-president of the Association. Presiding at an­other session was Father Paul Foik, C.S.C, formerly librarian at Notre Dame, now in a similar position at St. Edward's in Austin, Texas. 
1914 Frank H. Hayes. 40S Bank of Amer­ica Bldg.. Anaheim. Calif. Al Feeney, Inc. is the business title of Al's new fii-m in the Illinois Build­ing, Indianapolis. He deals in signs for industrial uses and for varied kinds of advei-tising. 
1 q l e James E. Sanford. 1624 Farwell Ave.. *"* ' Chicago, m. 
1916 Timothy P. Galvin, First Trust Bldg.. Hammond. Ind. 
Frank Hiss is the general chairman of South Bend Council, Knights of Columbus, in carrying out the five-point program of progress initiated by the supreme council of the order. -Associated with him in this activity— which locally has already been highly 
•
 successful — are many other Notre Dame men, including Father Wendell 

P.
 Corcoran, C.S.C., Callix Miller, Paul Butler and Leo Bemer. 


Iql7 Edward J. McOsker, 104 S. Union " ^ ' St. Elgin. III. 
The -Alumni Office was pleased to received recently from Lawrence 

May, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Cleary a note as to his present ad­dress. He is residing at 427 Grove Street, East Lansing, Michigan, and employed in the office of the auditor general of Michigan. 
John Cassidy, outstanding attorney in Peoria and throughout Illinois, was a candidate for lieutenant-governor on the Democratic ticket in the re­cent pi'imaries, but lost out by a com­paratively narrow margin. 
1918 ''°'"' ^ Lemmcr. 1110—8th Ave., S.. Escanaba, Mich. 
John Lemmer writes: "Dr. Neil Whalen has his offices in the David Whitney Building in Detroit. He is now on a three weeks' golfing trip in the South. I had a visit with him while attending the meeting of the state department of school super­intendents." 
* 

2029 Clarence Bader. 650 Pierce Street. Gary, Ind. 
Chick Bader forwards a letter from Joe McGinnis, of the firm of McGin­nis and Mulholland, lawj'ers, 11 South La Salle Street, Chicago. Joe says: "I am glad to see that '19 is about to be revived. Sorry that I cannot give you any information about the other members of our class, but none has been forthcoming for a long time. I'll bear in mind, how­ever, to send you any bits of news that I may from time to time learn about them. I am spending my time practicing law, and must confess that I have nothing particularly eventful ' or scandalous to report." 
heard from him by the time they read this. 
The local last word: Better come! The Alumni reunions are getting bet­ter and better and bigger and bigger. Free rooms, free golf, free banquet, a splendid program of academic ac­tivities, entertainment and spoits! A three-day rest from the cares of the world at a minimum cost. 
* 

1922 Gerald Ashe. Buffalo Athletic Club. Buffalo, New York. 
1923 ^°"* Castner, White Motor Company. Cleveland. Ohio. 
Dan Regan, of Austin, Texas, vis­ited ^\^th his old friends on the cam­pus on March 28, 29 and 30. 
Paul Castner writes: 
I know the class was grieved to hear of the death of Jim Welsh in Rochester, New York. Jimmy is the third member of our class who has passed on, the other two being Franklyn J. Kelly and Ed Lennon. 
I had the pleasure of running into Gus Desch, O. J. Larson and John Montague holding a session in a not­too-quiet corner of the Drake Hotel. I joined them for a nice visit and then had the further pleasure of John, Gus, and myself spending the next evening together. As you all perhaps know by this time Gus Desch has moved to Chicago, so we will most likely see him at this year's Com­mencement. 
0. J. Larson looks fine and is lo­cated in Chicago. Gus looks about the same as when he left school. He is married and has three children, t>vo 
boys and a girl. I have since heard 
1920 '^^ ^-^""'-^^'-^^'^'^ ^''^" ^^ 
Ansreles, Calif. 

A welcome letter from James H. Wheeler says: "Please change my ad­dress to 2321 Tipperary Road, Kala­mazoo, Michigan. My present connec­tion is in the capacity of sales man­ager of the industrial chemical de­partment. Paper Makers Chemical Corporation, Kalamazoo, Michigan. Kalamazoo is the headquarters of the company. Ed Redmond and Bob Branfort, ex- N. D. men. are with the same company and are located at our Milwaukee plant." 
1921 Alden J. Cusick, 1 Park Ave.. New York City. Believing that the class of 1921 should have a special fifteenth anni­versary celebration on the campus this year, Dan Duffy, 1G28 Standard Building, Cleveland, recently offered, most generously, to send three letters to each member of the class urging his presence at Commencement and Reunion on June 5, 6 and 7. The Alumni Office was glad to send Dan all available names and addresses and all of the class no doubt will have 
from John Montague and he tells me he and Gus paid a visit to the cam­pus and had quite a session with Father John Cavanaugh. 
I was quite surprised a short time ago to get a telephone call from Linus Glotzbach. He was going through Cleveland by plane on Sun­day morning and called from the air­port. He also called a few of the boys in Chicago and then went back to New Ulm, Minnesota where he lives. He promised that he would be back for Commencement. He tells me he sees Percy Wilcox and Tom Lee from time to time in Minneapolis, where they are located. 
Marty Brennan, John Flynn, Cal Callahan and Fred Joyce were all at the Rockne Communion Breakfast we held in Cleveland Sunday, March 29. 
-At the Easter dance in Cleveland I saw John Chapla for the first time since 1923. He and I were in the same party, so I had a real visit with him. He is with Paine-Weber and Company, and still unmarried. 
We are getting close to Commence­ment time and I hope the '23 class members have their plans made to be there Friday evening. Those who haven't been back for sometime will surely be surprised at the changed appearance of the campus, the many beautiful buildings, etc. Quoting from John Montague — "Gus Desch couldn't believe his eyes." It's worth part of your summer vacation time to be there, so let's start plans. 
1 42 4 -rames F. Hayes, Wm. J. Fedrick A Co.. Empire State Bide.. N. Y. C. 
Bud Stillman with his wife was down from Detroit in late April, un­fortunately called by the illness of his wife's mother. He took advan­tage of the opportunity to drive his nephew of Bristol, Indiana, over to the campus to get him lined up for his entrance as a Freshman next Fall. Bud transacted his business with Classmate Bob Riordan who, inciden­tally, had been in Detroit just the previous week to attend the annual convention of the American Associa­tion of Collegiate Registrars. Bob was royally entertained by Classmate Joe Norton, (who as president of the Detroit Club this year has batted about 7,000 per cent) but missed Charlie Molz. In the following week, however, Alumnor Dooley, when in Detroit for U.N.D. Night had a couple of chats with Charlie who is now as­sistant news editor of the Detroit News, and, like Joe Norton, very ac­tive in the Detroit Club. 
Chalk up another one for Notre Dame! Bill Clancy, erstwhile resi­dent of that garden spot of the Illi­nois Valley, La Salle, was elected judge of the municipal court of Me­nominee, Michigan, in a recent elec­tion. Bill has been practicing law in Menominee for several years. 
1925 •'*" ^- Scallan, 79 E. Adams St. Chicago, III. The editor is glad and relieved to report that by the very narrowest of margins—in both cases Notre Dame prayers must have played a huge part —Dan O'Neil and Gerry Holland both pulled through critical illnesses. Hol­land is back at w^ork on the Detroit News, but O'Neil, following his pneu­monia, will be forced to stay out of action for some time. 
142A Dr. Gerald W. Hayes. 96 N. Walnut *^* " St.. East OnuiRe. N. J. When the Managing Editor got to­gether at a recent College Day with the representative of St. Viator's College, Bourbonnais, near Kankakee, Illinois, he discovered that the philos­opher of '26, Mike Maloney, is teach­ing English at St. Viator's—and still an active participant in arguments. 
Up in Detroit a bit later the M.E. "ran into" Roman Feldpausch, of 
242 The Notre Dame Alumnus May. 1936 
Hastings, Michigan, in a hotel. Roman, with his -wife, had just ar­rived in the city to attend the state grocers' convention, and was plan­ning a trip to New Orleans to attend a national meeting of the same group a bit later. 
Bob Graham wTites to "Armstrong & Dooley, Inc." to say that his new address is 822 Virginia Avenue, York. Pennsylvania, whence he has moved recently from Topeka, Kansas. Bob is a bridge designer for the Pennsyl­vania Highways. He adds: "While I was in Topeka I was fortunate to make the acquaintance and friend­ship of Walter Stevens, C.E., '05. He has a fine position in the bridge de­partment of the Santa Fe Railroad, and I profited mentally and spiritual­ly from knowing him. I'm looking forward to a visit from Charlie De Barry this week-end. -4.t least 10 years back conversation must be brought up to date." 
No response to the earlier sugges­tion in the ALUMNUS as to an infor­mal reunion of the '26ers at Com­mencement. 'WTiat do you say? 
1027 Edmund DcQerq, 811S Ellis Ave. *^ Chicaeo. ni. Maurice Pettit, M.A. '27, associate professor of politics in the Univer­sity, was recently appointed director of the St. Joseph Countj' Welfare Board in South Bend, a new position under the social security legislation. Maurie will continue to teach at the University, but has resigned his for­mer position as St. Joseph county juvenile probation ofiicer. 
At a recent monthly meeting of the Arts and Letters Lay Facultj' Club Professor Steve Ronay, of the De­partment of English, spoke on the works of W. Somerset Maugham. 
Frank Ahearn, of Hartford, Con­necticut, secretary of the Connecticut Valley Club, came do^vn from Chica­go, where he was temporarily work­ing (for the Travelers' Insurance company), to spend March 28 and 
29. He was a welcome attendant at the Rockne Mass and breakfast of the St. Joe Valley Qub on March 29. 
1928 J'™"^ Bnckley, 718 E. Corby St.. 
**"*" South Bend. Ind. 
John McMahon left the newspaper field in Pittsburgh in February to join the Mellon Institute staff, where he has been assigned to special and im­portant work in connection •with the new Air Hygiene Foundation, an or­ganization formed to study industrial dust diseases. 
Writing in to supply the address of Julius McCoy, '27, Harry Schub­mehl, Wayland, New York, adds: "Clark Wallace, '28, after his mar­riage last April to Catherine Hu­bertus, moved from Wayland to Co­hocton. New York. He is associated there with the Wetmilier Dairj' Com­pany." Julius McCoy's address is 28 Riverview Avenue, Rutherford, New Jersey. 
Your class secretary, the good Pro­fessor Buckley, is suffering the pen­alties heaped upon those who do everything well. One Wednesday evening recently he was elected sec­retarj- of the Catholic Forum in South Bend, a discussion group with which he has been actively identified for several years. The next day the Board of Directors of the St. Joe Valley Notre Dame club elected him president of the club for the ensuing year, following his years of superb service as treasurer. Which means, among other things, that your secre­tary will he running the huge foot­ball banquet next year. 
1929 Jo^P*' McNamara, 231 Wisconsin 
St., Indianapolis, Ind. Bill Brown, of Milwaukee, an at­torney for the Allis-Chalmers Com­pany, was on the campus on March 25 and 26 for a visit with his good friend. Father James McDonald, 
C.S.C. With Harold W. Storj', vice-president and general attorney for his company. Bill was co-author of an article in the March Notre Dame Lawyer entitled "Constitutionality of th e UnemplojTnent Compensation Features of the Federal Social Secur­it}- Act." 
Tommy Farrell, one of the most active members of the Berrien Coun­t>' Club, was re-elected justice of the peace in Niles at the recent election there. 
Harvey Gauthier got down from nearby Michigan for a campus \isit on .A.pril 4. 
1930 Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth 
St. New Kensington, Pa. Dr. Frank Sowa collaborated •(vith Father Nieuwiand in a paper which was presented at the recent annual meeting of the American Chemical Societj' in Kansas City, Missouri. Its subject was "The Alkylation of Ben­zene with Olefins, Esters and Alco­hols" and it presented some new uses for olefins, a gaseous by-product of gasoline which is obtained during the cracking process. 
-411 newspaper reports to the con­tiarj-, Cesare Janesheski, outstanding­ingly successful coach at St. Hed­OTge's High School in South Bend for the past three years, has signed a new two-year contract to remain there, according to the latest avail­able information. He had been con­sidering an offer to coach at St. Via­tor's College, Bourbonnais, Illinois. 
Asking to have his address changed. Father Lawrence Bauer writes from India: "I think you can appreciate just how anxiously I await here each issue of the ALUMNUS, which up to this time has been for­warded to me. It fills up a tremen­dous void in a young missionary's heart, begotten of being so far av.'ay from the place where many of his richest interests have taken root." Father Bauer's address—and he'd be delighted to hear from you—is Cath­olic Mission, Toommiliah, Kaliganj 
P. 0., Dacca Dist., Bengal, India. 
From good old Burbank, Califor­nia, where he is sojourning, Bernie Conroy writes: 
I have had a few letters from class­mates so I am fonvarding you the news. 
Thomas E. McDougal, '30, is hard at work as district attorney of Lang-lads County, Wisconsin. Perhaps he will take time off to celebrate his first wedding anniversary on May 13. 
Mac wrote that he has seen Harry Porter of Waukesha and John Fox of Green Bay, but he didn't say what they were doing. 
Charles J. Esola, '30, is the new assistant city attorney of East Chi­cago, Indiana, so you know he has his hands full. 
Tim Toomey came through with a report on the eastern situation. He said that Ted Abel has been located in Indianapolis. 
Patsy Hastings is back in Clinton, Massachusetts where he is one of the town's leading merchants. Chuck Driscoll is still employed by the A.. and P., but he spends his spare time teaching his five or six months old son the fundamentals of hockey. 
Jerry Parker, Bob Andres, Jack Cassidy, Warren Fogel and Frank Walker are reported to be unmarried and working in New York. Maybe Tim made a mistake, but Frank Walker's name is on the list he sent to me. 
Johnny Burns threw a swell beef­steak dinner for his old boxing stable­mate, John Preece of Nebraska. John graduated from Yale Medical School last June and now is an interne at St. John's Hospital in Brooklyn. am sure he will be a real credit to the medical profession. 
Don "Dinly" Sullivan had another crack basketball team at St. JEchael's High, Northampton, Massachusetts. Sully's teams have been champions of the Catholic High Schools of New England for the past two years. 
Jim Friel and family are located in Plainfield, New Jersey, where Jim works for the Meade-Johnson Co. 
Jack Walker and Joe Friel are re­ported to be ready to say "I do" as soon as the Lenten season is over. 

May. 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
I have been seeing a lot of the Cal­ifornia boys and hope to send you a report on the situation next month. 
1931 •'°''" ^- Bolasd, 1402 Linden SU,
Scranton, Pa. 
FIVE-YEAR REUNION June 5, 6 and 7 

1932 Herbert Gioripo, 9005 188th SI.. Hd­
lis. L. I., New York. 

In response to my recent plea for information concerning the where­abouts of my classmates, I have heard from Walter Mullen, of Tona­wanda, who advises me that he is presently located in Eochester in the capacity of route supervisor for Stan­dard Brands, and is leading a bach­elor's life. His roommate, Jim Reidy, of Oil City, Pennsylvania, is a sales­man for the National Biscuit Com­pany. 
Mrs. R. J. Dunn, of Burke, New York, was very kind to advise me that her son, Joseph J. Dunn, is now in the employ of Farms and Markets of New York State on milk control, and is located at 25 West Utica Street, Buffalo, Hotel Stratfoi'd Arms. 
Mrs, Dunn's response to my plea gives me a bright idea. Perhaps if you fellows will show this letter to your mothers, they will take the trouble to let me know how you are getting along. 
I saw Bill Slater in church. Good Friday; he is still working with his dad. Leo McLaughlin was at the races recently, watching th e horses go round and round. Myles Mullen is at 32 Court Street, and Bill Darrow is at 189 Joralemon Street. 
I wish the rest of you fellows would drop me a card. 
Herbert P. Giorgio. 

Toin Meade writes in to request that his name be added to the list of practicing Notre Dame lawyers which has been running in the ALUJINUS. Tom's address is 955 Dexter Horton Building, Seattle, Washington. 
1933 Donald Wise, 110 Pleasant St.. Jo­liet, m. 
Nick Tsiolis, who received his A.B. at Notre Dame in '33 and will have his law degree here this June, has al­ready been awarded his license to practice law in Indiana after passing the Indiana bar exam—an unusual distinction. 
Recent issues of the ALUMNTJS have carried apparently conflicting stories about George Rohr's employment. Since he finished at the Hai-vard Busi­ness School last June George has been continuously with Homblower & Weeks, 40 Wall Street, New York City. Sorry for the slip, George. 
Writing from the Naval Air Sta­tion, Pensacola, Florida, Bill Hawkes asks to have his ALUMNUS mailed to him there until further notice. Bill is now a flier for the Navj'. 
Paul Host has left his post as head of the athletic equipment department in The Fair department store in the Chicago Loop and is in the South with an oil company, according to Jim Costin's dope in the South Bend 
Neivs-Times. 
Benjamin H. Weinstein, South Bend, has succeeded Professor Maur­ie Pettit as juvenile probation officer in St. Joseph County. Following his graduation from Notre Dame in 1933, Ben got his master's degree at the University of Chicago in 1935. He has been working with Maurie—^now county welfare board director—for several years. 
John Murray says that his new ad­dress is 1537 A Avenue, N.E., Cedar Rapids, Iowa. He was man-ied last October 22 to Marj^ Wenke, also of Cedar Rapids. 
Don Wise writes: Jack Jaeger is emploj'ed by the Davenport Hosiery Mills, of Chatta­nooga, Tennessee, and not by the Real Silk Company as previously re­ported. Beg pardon. Jack. At Dry­malski is working for the Polonia Coal Company. Bill Dreux is finish­ing his law work at Tulane Univer­sity. J. Pulitzer McCarthy is on the staff of the Chicago Evening Ameri­can. Tom Sexton is associated with the Thomas J. Webb Coffee Company in Chicago. 
Frank Matavovsky is in partership with Marty Moran in the legal profes­sion in Chicago. Ed Vyzral was suc­cessful in the most recent Illinois bar exam. Tony Crowley is working for 
W. F. Worley and Company in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Marion Blake, of the firm of Moran and Blake, attorneys, in Tulsa, Oklahoma, is football coach at Holy Family High School. Ed Leroux is working in Seminole, Oklahoma for the Oklahoma Pipeline Company. Jim Wade is working for the Frick-Reid Supply Corporation in Tulsa. 
Johnny Quinlan is in Houston, Tex­as, working out of there on freighters i-unning cosat^rise and to South America. Bill Dusch is designer for the Warewick China Company in Wheeling, West Virginia. Bill Mur­phy works at the Guild Book Shop in New York City. Bill Robinson is with the Equitable Life Insurance Company, in Des Moines, Iowa. I had a letter from Tony (Major) An­dreoni and he informed me that he is now the foremost attorney in St. Marj^'s, Ohio. 
Roger (McCutch) McGovem has returned to his first love, the news­paper, and is writing for the Bridge­port Times-Star. Jack Finneran was married to Margaret Brennan on Sat­urday, April 18 in St. Patrick's Ca­thedral, New York City. 
1934 Janes HOKOW, 2320 N. Ixwndale 
Ave.. Chicago. HI. A newspaper clipping brings the happy news that John Brust has been chosen as a finals competitor in pre­liminary competition for a scholar­ship in architecture at the American Academy in Rome. The announce­ment was made by the Academy's of­fice in New York. 
Sending in his alumni news Cbariie Mueller says: "I have now become a permanent citizen of Boston and am employed as a radio tube engineer by the Raytheon Production Corpo­ration." 
George Menard, erstwhile Soloist with the Glee Club, is singing over the radio in Rockford, Illinois, ac­cording the latest dope. 
Writing in from his post with the Chapman Bearing and Engineering Corporation, with information on pro­spective students, John Leonard adds: "I see quite a few of the fellows, off and on. Bill Cass, '32, is selling resins, oils, etc., Frank Cass, '35, is doing en­gineering work at Worthington Pump Manufacturing Company. Frank Do­noghue, '33, is with the American Steel and Wire, and Carlos Prank, '33, is with the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock. Yours truly is with the above firm doing designing, heat treating, and sales engineering. 
"Everyone here is looking forward to the Buffalo Club retreat to be held in about a month, at Niagara U." 
Big League Scout Hochreiter of '35 adds to his copious notes the follow­ing about '34 boys: "Jim Ross is to be married to Miss Betty McGurk, of St. Mary's and Boston, in June. Bill Wolfe is attending Louisiana State and taking graduate work in Busi­ness Administration." 
Jim Moscow writes: 
Seen or heard from in the last few weeks from the ranks of '34: 
John Sullivan has cast his lot on La Salle street with the investment firm of Homblower and Weeks and seems to enjoy the confusion of that spot in the Loop. Another future broker. Bob Hanley, is so enthusiastic about his work that he could not stay away from the Board of Trade build­ing on his day off—Good Friday, Bob states that Bill Huisking now for­sakes Huntington, Long Island, be­tween week-ends to give closer atten­tion to his work in New York City. 
Gene Holland is now operating in 
"Insurance Careers for College Graduates' 
THIS booklet, published by The Penn Mutual Life Insur­ance Company, explains the advantages life underwriting offers to the college graduate at the present time. It covers these topics: 
FINANCIAL OPPORTUNITIES 
THE COSIPANY'S FIXED COMPENSATION PLAN QUAUFICATIONS 
Yon may obtain the booklet with no obligation from; 
NATIONAL COLLEGIATE PERSONNEL BUREAU 
THE PENN MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 
Independence Square, Philadelphia 
the Sales department of the Utah Radio Company. Incidentally, hoth he and Bill are engaged. Wonder who will cross the finish line first? Speak­ing of races reminds the writer of the annual reunion to take place in Louisville over the Derby week-end. 
Colonels Veeneman, Leonarcl, and 
Schwartzel will once more play hosts 
to Yankees Kiep, Holland, Quirk, Reese, Bloemsnia, et al. 
Fran Mathys, who will get his law 
degree next June, still thinks Chicago the best place to shop. His friend, Jim Morrison, tax counsellor with the firm of Mui'phy, Lanier and Quinn, holds an executive position in the Catholic Young Men's Club of Chi­cago. 
Tom Dugan, now connected with 
N. B. C, issues fair warning to Col­umbia's Ted Husing to look to his laurels. 
Joe Novack, erstwhile assistant to Ed Krause at Winona, is putting things in fine shape as athletic direct­or of Mark White Park on Chicago's south side. 
Clar Hellwig has been found after a long search employed in the ac­counting division of Montgomerj'­Ward's. 
Vince McCanney of Wilmette is 
another of the boys spotted on Alich­igan boulevard as an employee of the Chicago and Eastern railway. 
When last seen Ed Fischer was do­ing right well with Hood Rubber Co. His future brother-in-law Jack Buck­ley continues to brighten the comer of Monroe and Dearborn streets with his flashy Homburgs and white stiff collars (a la Kiep). 
A note from Ralph F. Else, Buf­falo, brings the following news: 
"While in New York I managed to get over to Jim Ross's Tavern and saw George O'Brien among others. He is working for a brewery. My old pals, Clint Winter and Les Jandoli, came over from Newark one evening to take in the town with me. Clint is working for the Worthington Pump Corporation also, while Les is con­nected with the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. 
I recently received a letter from Joe Vaughan, another of the class of '34. Joe is working for a paper com­pany. He reports that George McKee is working in the best hotel in Rome, New York. Harold Desnoyers is work­ing in a paper mill in Plattsburgh." 
Dick Mullen sends a fine letter to the Alumni Office in which he says that he is an auditor for the Los An­geles Paper Box Company and is re­siding at 424 South Hillview -Ave­nue, Los -Angeles. Dick was married to Miss Natalie Catherine Heinz on Julv 16, 1935. 
* 
iq^ e Franklyn C. Hochreiter. 722 Living­'•^'"' stnn hnll. Columbia Univ.. N.Y. City. 
Your director Proctor, kind and true, says to you: 
Commencement June 5, 6 and 7! A fine chance for all the '35ers to get together and hash over "old times!" Yes, it's hard to believe that one whole and entire year will have gone by since we donned the caps and gowns. Your director is communicat­ing with Hochreiter pronto (even though Hoch owes us a letter) to make an-angements for the reunion. There will be a special place for all '35ers to get together. Information in the residence halls when you reg­ister and in the Alumni Office. 
Took a run to Ann Arbor over Spring vacation and had a nice get-together with Ray Brett, John Bren­
nan. Herb Natto, Tom Thompson, John Allen, and John Kavanaugh in 
the law school there at Michigan. 
Spotted Marty Hendele in white tie and tails high in a box watching Walter Hampden's final Chicago per­formance of "Cyrano de Bergerac." 
Paul Fergus is employed by the South Bend Lathe Works in South Bend, in the advertising department. 
-Again we are proud to give you the Hoch: Seen at the Rockne Memorial Com­munion Breakfast in New York: Bill 
Schmidt, Jim McDevitt, Ed Bracken, Joe Bittner, Andy Maffei, Jim Sheils, Jordon Hargrove, Frank Weldon, Vince Hogan and Marshall Christen­sen, ex. '35. 
Our appeal for the "inside story" on the neglected men A to C, in our last month's scribbling, did not go unanswered. Not only did we get the "dope" on some of them, but we also gathered data on the whole alphabet. 
Mitch Saleh finally broke down and gave us the "info" on himself and some of the boys. He is working as a research engineer for the United States Soil Conservation Service. The "little man" has an office in the Fed­eral Building in Tyler, Texas. (From what he told us in the letter, he just checks in to get liis mail and spends the remainder of the time touring the countrj-.) 
Two more of "our boys" are con­tinuing their studies in graduate work at N. D. Both Al Vitter and Dick Schager are back enjoying the "new Notre Dame." 
We have a correction to make on Camille Gravel. Last time we re­ported him as taking his law at Tu­lane. He is attending Louisiana State where he is "absorbing" the law. 
Clarence Pickard of San Antonio is 
now in Indianapolis where he has been working for the Indiana Bell Telephone Company. There he has joined Merle Settles who was re-• ported with the same company last Januarj'. 
Joe Beck is also employed by the Indianapolis office of the Indiana Bell Tel. 
Mitch said he went to the races at Epsom Downs a short while back with Tom Standish. Tom, as we told you, is with the Houston Light Com­pany. 
It was a great surprise to find a letter in our box one morning from Arnold Hackenbruch of Milwaukee. He not only volunteered information concerning himself but gave us two pages of just the necessary "stuff" to keep our chattering going for the month. -Arnold is now in his second position and things look promising for his continued advancement. He start­ed with the Milwaukee County Regi­onal Planning Department as a draftsman. For the past four months, however, he has been with H. C. Hen-gels, the state military architect and engineer for Wisconsin. 
Arnold Morrison, of the Rochester Morrisons, is employed as a drafts­man in the architectural firm of Flynn in the native city. 
Armand Kellogg w^ent back for a 
P. G. in Architecture last semester at 
N. D. and directly upon leaving, stepped right into the office of F. K. Porter, architect of Cheyenne, Wyo­ming. 

Aaron Hamm of Waverly, New York, is in the central part of the state where he is doing work as an engineer for the United States Gov­ernment. 
Adrian Wackerman, is remaining in the Quaker City to continue his work in a "practical" way. He is a draftsman for the Architectural firm of Harry Stemfeld. 
The home town concern of Ceeds­worth and Thompson, architects of Norwich, Connectucut, has claimed the talents of John Tingley. We are told that he has become a partner in that firm. 
Mike Gaul is reported as doing right well for himself as an architect in his dad's business in Chi. 
Finishing up at the Alma Mater last semester, Joseph Ott of Quincy is now enjoying the distinction of being head draftsman at the Henry Valve Company of Chicago. 
After a summer in Europe George Beltamacchi is completing his archi­tectural course at N. D. before step­ping into an office. 
Some time back we passed on the story to you that Bill Bernbrock was supeirising a certain sewer "con­struction feat" in Aurora, Illinois. At that moment we did not have Bill's official "monicker." That valuable title we now impart; he is assistant engi­neer for the Aurora Sanitai-j' Dis­trict. 
Turning from the men who once strode the corridore of Gushing and Hoynes Halls, we find that the pa­trons of the structure supporting the Gold Dome are continuing to "do things." 
Jim Nolan completed his studies "on the banks of the St. Joe" last semester and is now reported to be working in native Philadelphia. 
Ray Bulkiewicz has become a pro­tege of the Northwestern University law wizards. 
Jack Robinson is back in New York after his Fall sojourn on the campus. We hear that he is working in Wall Street. 
In March we told you that John Lively was attending St. John's law school. He e^^dently is making the night session, as during the day John is employed by an investment analyst firm down town. 
The last time we heard about Tom (Red) Walsh he was doing his stuff with the Cooperative Purchasing Sys­tem of our metropolis. Now the Elm­hurst boy has turned to retailing. Tom and another chap from out the Island have opened up a candy store in the native diggings. 
Easter Monday brought us an in­teresting missive from Bill Moss. Bill, as we divulged in January, is working as a civil engineer for the W.P.A. in Manhattan. He rendered a great service by giving us the tip-off on two of the '35ers, not yet reported. 
Joe Beach has been doing things since he left the hallowed halls. Upon his return to the South last Summer he signed up -a-ith the New Orleans' Pelicans and moved into Jackson, Mississippi, where they hide their bet­ter players. At the end of the season Joe attached himself to his old prep school. Holy Cross, and took over the head coach's position. With the ad­vent of Spring, Joe is in uniform for the Pelicans again, and is considered the best of five outfielders. He has a busy day with two hours of teach­ing, working out with the team, and then keeping his high school boys in shape. 
Dan Cunha, of St. Petersburg, Florida, is spending his days in Al­bany, New York, where he is teach­ing. We think that it is with the Christian Brothers there, but we are not sure. (How about a verification on this, Dan?) 
During the past month we had the pleasure of a \'isit from Jim Mc-Devitt and Bill Schmidt. Jim is still hard at it. 
Bill joined us at a party in the 

Lexington on Easter Tuesday while 
we were entertaining guests from 
the Queen City of the Lakes. It was 
a gala night but a quiet morning. 
(Sorry you did not make it, Jim. We 
got your note next morning.) 
We noted from the "Engagements and Marriages" column of .\pril that felicitations are in order for some of our number. 
Your "scribe" e-xtends the con­gratulations of the Class to Charlie Brucker whose engagement to Miss Naomi Ball has been announced and whose wedding is booked for Niies on May 2. Reuben From, ex. '35, was married to Miss Freda Weissbuch in South Bend in March 8. Lots of hap­piness and good fortune to both you fellows. (We begin to feel like one of the "forgotten men" with all these weddings taking place. Let's hope there are still a few fair ones to pick from when "our school days are over.") 
Coming into the "home stretch" again, we list a few more of our "stalwarts" who have evaded the lash of our pen. How about a line on: Eddie Caldwell, John Campbell, Tony Canale, Al Capitell, Fred Carideo, Larry Carpenter, Paul Carroll, Vine Cavender, Liborio Cifrese, Sam Clem­ents, Jim Coll, Fran Collins, Joe Cor­daro, Lew Crego, John Crunican, Ed Cullen, Josh D'Amora, Hurdis Daus­man, Foots Davis, Carlos de Landero, Moe Delia, Frank Deschamps, Ralph Ellwanger, Barney English, John English, Fred Erdle, Charlie Fehr, John L Flanagan, Joe Flynn, Fred Follmar, Leo Fomenko, Dan Fox, Bob 
'XVaitforme-
f ' /m tfoinq on tte 
MISSOOM MCIFIC 
StnriRitiwMiirt WEST SOUTHWEST 
MEXICO 

MIK COMOmOHIt THAWS C­
0^ 
Musouri Pacific Lines air­ronditioned tiains offet the finest travel senrire to and from the best vacation section of America—the GTeat West and Southwest. The SUN­SHIME SPECIAL leai the fieet fcetw'esn St. Lo:iis and Louisiana, Tcsas. Mer­ico. Arizona, and Ssuthrm Oilifom^a — the SCENIC LIMITED between St. Louis and Colorado. Utah and Northern California. For complete information and il­lustrated literature write — 
P. J. NEFF Assistant CfiJef Traffic Officer 

1601 Missoun Pacific BIdg. St. Louis, Mo. 
Fox, Ambrose Freehill, John Fry, Harry "Dabol" Gafney, Tom Galla­gher, Teofel Gedsiin, Emilio Ger­vasio. Bill Gilger, Salvatore Gioe, "Micky" Glanzner, Jim Glenn, John Gross, Reuben Grundeman and Bill Guimont. 
Joe Argus, of Indianapolis, was a welcome visitor on the campus on April 16. 
LAWYERS 

The following list of practicing lawyers is for addition to the Law Directory. Erie, Pennsylvania 
Barber, Thomas W., LL.B. '24 Barber & Sennett, Ariel Bldg.. Seventh Fl. Coughlin, M. J., -\.B. '26, LL.B. '28 923 E. Tenth St, O'Connor, Gerard P., A.B. "29 929 W. 9th St. Seattle, Washington Meade, Thomas E., A.B. '32 955 Dexter Horton Bldg. Ottawa, Canada Connolly, John J. Clark, Robertson, MacDonald & Connolly, Ottawa Electric Bldg., 56 Sparks St. 
NEWS-WEEK 
.C §.
alter jQippmann Q^ays: 
»

"Concerning Words 
"One ofjthe persistent difficulties in discussion is that ivc have Only a very simple vocabulary to describe enormously complicated meanings." 
Mr. Lippmann surmounts these difficulties by writing what he has to say in crisp, clear, unaffected English. He knows that wordi­ness or ponderous eloquence, flippancy or smug sophistication do not enhance sincerity and authority. 
NEWS-WEEK, too, is written crisply (to save time), clearly (for accurate comprehension), in unaffected English (to subordinate the style to the meaning). It is the most difficult kind of writing; yet for transcribing news, the most practical. Simplicity never loses caste. 
NEWS-WEEK brings you all the significant news of the world in compact, organized form; unbiased, authoritative, and completely illustrated—a perfect balance of word and picture. 
NEWS-WEEK fills a definite American need in a typically Ameri­can way—by giving you the best quickest and at the least expense. If you would have a thorough knowledge of the news of the world, subscribe for NEWS-WEEK. Already the least expensive illustrated news-magazine, it gives to new subscribei's a half-price ti'ial offers— twenty weeks for only $1. Test NEWS-WEEK. 
Fill in the coupon, clip it and mail it today. 
For New Subscribers Only 
NEWS-WEEK, Inc. Rockefeller Center—Dept. ND. Neio York, N. Y. 

Please enter my trial subscription to NEWS-WEEKLY for twenty weeks and send me a bill for $1. 
Name 
Address 
Meyer Basketball Captain 
Villagers Sponsor An­
nual Team Tribute 
"The gi-eatest basketball team have ever seen" in the opinion of Coach Adolph Rupp, of the Univer­sity of Kentucky, was feted last month at a testimonial banquet spon­sored by the Notre Dame Villagers, student off-campus organization at South Bend's Oliver Hotel, and at­tended by 600 friends and alumni of Notre Dame. 
Following the banquet Ray Jleyer, 
COACH GEORGE KEOGAN 
His Greatest 
of Chicago, sophomore forward this year, was selected to captain next year's team. He will be the first junior in sevei-al years to head a major sport team at Notre Dame. 
The record of Coach George Keo­gan and his 1935-36 squad which comprised 22 victories, two defeats, and one tie, was praised by a lengthy list of speakers which included Fi-an­cis Powers, well known New York Sun sports authority, the Rev. Fran­cis Boland, C.S.C, prefect of disci­pline, Edgar Munzel, of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, Elmer Layden, director of athletics, James Costin and Jack Ledden, spoils editors of the South Bend Neivs-Times and the South Bend Tribune, respectively, Jim Britt, sports announcer of WSBT­WFAM, South Bend, and Al WJTI­koop, city editor of the Lebanon (In­diana) Reporter. 
The toastmaster, the Rev. Vincent llooney, C.S.C, South Bend director of the C.Y.O. movement, was inti-o­duced by John Farabaugh, president of the Villagers. The University band attended as gaests ot the ath­letic association. Coach Keogan pre­sented gold basketballs to the mono­gram winners. They were Co-Cap­tains Marty Peters and Johnny Ford, John Moir, Ray Meyer, Johnny Hop­kins, Paul Nowak, George Ireland, Frank Wade, Tommy Wukovits and Student Manager Bill Gillespie. 

THE BEAT THEM 
Aft#j4'i 
SUPERCHARGER 
Graham cars can be purchased on the 6% C. I. T. Credit Plan 
• Since the recent Giliuore-Yosemile Economy Run, many proud Iieaillines have proclaimed many cars as >vinners in their classes. 
Thirty cars competed, so the classes were numerous enough to provide a trophy for at least a fourth of the entries. 
Both the Graham Supercharger and the Graham Crusader—the only Grahams entered—won their class events. 
But the BIG issue to he decideil was the Stceepsiakes Championship—the car that could lieat all others in ton miles per gallon, regardless of class. 
The car that won that event—championship over 
all—was the Graham Supercharger! 
Its magnificent record, carrying five passengers and climhing to an altitude of 4,043 feet, was 26.66 miles per gallon, officially certified by the American Autoniohile Association. 
You can't heat the Supercharger! The same principle that revolutionized aviation is now revo­lutionizing the motor car. Graham alone offers ita spectacular advantages in the lower priced field. 
Wherever cars are sold the Graham franchise is worth mone 
THE STY1.E AWARD GOES TO GRAHAM 
11936, LIGGETT & MIIRS TOBACCO CO. 







