The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
Universal Communic Sunday, Dec. 5 
(Page 3) 
Notre Dame Now 
(Page 4) 
Father Sorin's 
Notre Dame 
(Page 5) 
Afternoon Mass hi 
Dillon Hall with 
Father Gerald McMahon 
<— as Celebrant 

Vol. 22 OCTOBER, 1943 No. I 
Ali44fuU HelUfloui RiJJetm 
rBY REV. JOHN P. LYNCH, CS.Cs 
SIN OR "SCIENCE" 
A month or so ago, this column pointed out the stupidity of those modem writ­ers who approve sex irregularities under 
an alleged "new scientific, progressive" attitude. 
One of the reviewers of the New York Times book section hails a recent novel dealing ^\•ith incest. She 
Father Lynch 
blurbs approv­

ingly: "Incest has been here examined with none of the sinister hocus-pocus by which a creaking morality is usually substituted for understanding." -And this lack of understanding, she says, is due to "the incorrigible moralism of our culture" and "our incomplete transition from sin to science." 
A typical example of a broad-minded intellectual being just iiat-headed and dumb. .If she read any history, she would know that just before Rome's fall, many of the degraded Romans "understood" and approved the beast in man—and practiced all the sex irregularities of our day, including incest. 
And, vi'hile they understood and ap­proved, they didn't excuse it by calling it a "scientific" attitude, 
A NATION OF OLD PEOPLE 

Medical schools preparing their stu­dents for the future are stressing geri­atrics—the study and treatment of dis­eases of old age. Geriatrics is beginning to rival and supplant pediatrics, or the ca:re of children. . Medical progress has lengthened the average life span or expectancy, and with more people living longer, the treat­ment of diseases of old age is becoming a specialty. 
The doctors also see that our birth­rate has been falling steadily (except for the temporary flurry caused by war marriages, etc.) and that we are des­tined to become a nation of old people, with old people far outnumbering youth. The effect of this on industry, homes and reconstruction work, taxes, education and our Army and Navy—if another war come, which God forbid—^will be disas­trous even if not clearly appreciated yet. 
Responsibility can be laid fully at the 

door of that "scientific" birth-control, 
preached by Mrs. Sanger and adopted by 
our "scientific" educators, sociologists 
and writers. 
Within our time, conditions will force 

an about-face and it will become not only 
moral but patriotic to have larger fam­
ilies. 
"THERE'LL ALWAYS BE AN 
ENGLAND" 
The English have awakened and tossed 

"scientific" limitation of families out the 
window as phoney "science" and harmful 
to the welfare of the country. 
The authors of the English Beveridge 

Plan, providing for post-war social se­
curity, are honest and really scientific 
when they state that the English race is 
headed for extinction if the birth-rate 
continues to decline. The authors state 
flatly and clearly that one of the main 
aims of the whole plan is to raise the 
birth-rate. To accomplish that they pro­
vide cash maternity benefits and weekly 
cash allowances to parents for children 
under 15 years, whether the parent is 
employed or unemployed. 
Consider now the widely-hailed plan of our National Resources Planning Board. Undoubtedly infected by the "sci­entific" teaching of Mrs. Sanger and her allied group, our Planning Board was utterly — and dishonestly—silent about our falling birth-rate and its direful effect on the country. It therefore made no mention of maternity benefits or pay­ment to aid in the rearing of children. 
It did, however, propose to give edu­cational aid to children over the com­pulsory school age. Probably it intends to send them all to college! 
If all of the Plan was as unscientific —and dishonest—as its silence on our falling birth-rate indicates, no wonder it met such a flat reception in the United States—and rejection by Congress. 
SCIENCE AND PRAYER 

Medical men are also emphasizing more and more the mental and spiritual elements in treating certain ailments. Increasingly, medical authorities admit the limitations of science alone and are realizing the truth of the late Dr. Charles Mayo's statement that "The mental and spiritual factor in disease varies from 65 to 75 perecent." 
Medical research continues to disclose 

the prominent part that anxiety, fear  
and worry play as a cause in many ail­ 
ments, particularly many types of ulcers,  
of heart disease and of break-downs, the  
number of which are increasing at an  
alarming rate. "This growth is due to the  
stepped-up tempo of our life, increasing  
burdens and decreasing trust and confi­ 
dence in God and His Providence, or lov­ 
ing care for us.  
We know many priests and Catholic  
doctors who are recommending prayer,  
particularly the rosary, in periods of  
stress and anxiety.  
OUR LADY—HEALTH OF THE SICE  
One young N. D. graduate relates how  
he was told that his ulcer was so ad­ 
vanced and hopeless that he could expect  ,  
at best a life of invalidism, if not actual  
confinement to a bed. He started the  
rosary cure, grabbing it at every attack  
of jitters. Today, four months later, he  
is pronounced almost completely cured  
and is returning to work—and the doctor  
humbly disclaims credit.  
Another person paid §1,200 to a psy­ 
chiatrist without any help or relief from  
severe jitters and hysteria. Relief came  
by following the advice of a wise old  
parish priest in confession, who said:  
"Listen, when you feel one of these at­ 
tacks coming, just grab your Rosary, say  
two or three Hail Marys to Our Lady  
for the grace to laugh at yourself, not to  
take yourself too seriously."  
Using the Rosary can bring back  
some of the peace and tranquility that  
used to be given us at the Grotto by Our  
Lady.  
October is the month of the rosary, a  
proper time to turn back to the rosary  
and to the Queen of Peace, whether our  
anxiety is born on the battlefield, in the  
office or at home.  
48 ­ 18  
That isn't a football score. It repre­ 
sents the fact that the human being has  
to use 48 muscles all over his puss in a  
scowl or frown, only 18 in a smile.  
God evidently intended that we smile  
more than frown. At least, he made smil­ 
ing a lot easier.  
We can smile more easily and more  
often if we have the peace of God in our  
hearts, "that peace which the world can­ 
not grive."  ]  
That peace in the face of increased  |  
burdens and sorrows must be grounded  i  
on the realization that, in the state of  
grace we are Sons of God destined for an  
eternal home of happiness, earned for  
us by our elder Brother, Christ, through  
suffering.  
Our sufferings can be made to pay off  
if we accept them and offer them up in  
union with Christ, through the Mass  
especially.  


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This mesrazine is published bi-monthly by the Univeraity of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. Eulered 
an second class matter October 1, 1939, at tha Fostoffiee, Notre Dame, Indiaaa. under the act of 
AuKOSt 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National CkthoUe Alnnni Federation. 
lame* E. Amutron?. '25, EditoR WilUam B. DooUy. '28. Mdnogiag Editor 
VOL 22 OaOBER, 1943 No. I 
Universal Communion Sunday Dec. 5 
Program Begun by New York CHy Qub in 1938 
Should Find Real Response From All Other Qubs 
This Year; Idea is Most Perfect Form for N.D. Unity 
In 1938, the Notre Dame Club of New York City, under the leadership of Dan­iel J. O'Neil, president, launched the idea of a Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday, to be held nearest the feast of the Immaculate Conception. 
Immediate and favorable response from the Club made that iirst event out­standing. Postmaster General Frank C. Walker was the toastmaster. Monsignor Fulton Sheen was the speaker. Bishop John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., then president of Notre Dame, broadcast from South America during the breakfast which fol­lowed the Mass in St. Patrick's Cathe­dral, celebrated by the late Msgr. La­velle. 
Twelve other Notre Dame Clubs ac­cepted the New York Club's invitation to join in this significant and appropri­ate annual observation of the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, so close to the heart of Notre Dame and Notre Dame men. 
The ensuing years have found, vary­ing response. The upheaval of the war in Europe and the increasing tempo of our own preparation for almost inevit­able involvement was climaxed most tragically on Dec. 7, 1941, and the decla­ration of war on the following day, the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. 
But for Notre Dame men this only doubles the~ significance of the Univer­sal Communion Sunday created to honor Our Lady on this occasion. All of the love, all of the prayers of peace time remain, and added now are the prayers for the 3,700 Notre Dame men already in the armed forces, the 61 Notre Dame men who have ^ven their lives. No form of prayer could be more effective in achieving peace and the happier hopes of the world than this honoring of the Mother of God through Mass and Com­munion. 
Few of the restrictions that interfere with Club meetings of other types apply to this form of observance. 
The absence of Club members in the service should be just an added incentive for those who remain to take part. 
This is an occasion on which the Club members can include their families, as all who are in the Notre Dame family in its largest sense share the motives and the benefits. 
The Alumni Board would like to see this Universal Communion Sunday of 1943, one of the most critical years in the world's history, made the occasion on Dec. 5 for a real observance by every Local Chib.. The reasons are as obvious as they are numerous. Many Clubs num­ber gold stars on their membership roll. All Club number service stars. Every Notre Dame man and his family have a deep stake in the war and in the peace to.come. Where better to turn than to Notre Dame, Virgin most powerful. Com­forter of the afflicted. 

Governor Kelly Commencement Speaker 
Notre Dame's 100th Commencement, long awaited and long planned, was an­nounced by Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president,to be held on Friday, Oct, 29. 
War has modified its original scope severely, but in its present plans are the symbol and the implications that were to mark the formal closing of the University's centenary year. 
This 100th Commencement will be the last formal commencement for the dura­tion. Those coming after this Class of 1944, — which numbers 209 on the pro>­gram but an indefintiely smaller group in those who will be present to receive their deg^rees — will be awarded degrees in convocations at the close of each of the three war-year semesters now em­bodied in the calendar year. 
Hon. Harry P. Kelly, '17, governor of Michigan, veteran of World War I, for­mer president of the Notre Dame Alum­ni Association, will deliver the Com­mencement address at 3 o'clock Friday afternoon, in Washington Hall. 
The baccalaureate Mass will be cele­brated in Sacred Heart Church at 9 o'clock on Friday morning. 
Most Rev. William P. O'Connor, D.D., Ph.D., bishop of Superior, Wis., will preach the baccalaureate sermon. Bishop O'Connor, consecrated in 1942, is a vet­eran-chaplain of World War I, and a former president of the American Oath-. olic Philosopphical Association. He was a member of the faculty of St. Francis Seminary, Milwaukee, for many years. 
The Mass will be celebrated by Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., LL.D., bishop of Fort Wayne. The flag presented to the University by the Class of 1944 will be blessed at the Mass.. 
A special feature of this historic com­mencement, echoing its original scope, will be the reading of a letter from His Holiness, Pope Kus XII, to the Univer­sity on the occasion of its centoiary.' Notre' Dame was one of the stops made by the present pope when he visited this country as Cardinal Pacelli, and it has remained close to his heart. 
Leo T. Crowley, recently appointed as foreign economic administrator after a brilliant record-in business and pub­lic aifairs, will be among those to be 
(Continued on Page 31) 

Notre Dame is divided into Navy, occu­
pying Alumni and Dillon halls; Marines, occupying Zahm and Cavanaugh halls; 

Notre Dame-What's It like Now? 
and N.K.O.T.C., occupying Walsh hall. 
Much Remains ihe Same but There Are Many Changes; Only Some 600 Civilian Students Out of 2,500 Total. 
(See Pictures on 
Notre Dame—what's it like now? 
Well, as we've said in earlier issues, it's still Notre Dame. Father 6'Donnell and Father Cavanaugh still run the school from the front end of the Main Building, second floor. Father John Burke is still in charge of discipline. Brother Angelus is still the guestmaster, Brother Boniface is still the c.o. of the servers, and you still buy your books from Brother Meinrad and his associates. 
Doctor Cooney still commands the northwest sector of the library, ground floor, Professor Fenlon still lives in Sorin and Dean McCarthy still presides in the Commerce precincts. Mi-. Connolly is the Eisenhower of the Dining Hall, and Mr. Hoar is the Mac.A.rthur of the Laundry. Bill Eoach rules the barber shop brigade (increased to eight chairs of late). 
There's football practice, and we're having home games. The Scholastic comes out nearly every Friday. The fa­miliar fall chill is in the air. 
And, above all, the Lady on the Dome still holds her sway. 
Notre Dame, at bottom and at the top, is still very decidedly Notre Dame. But there are vast differences. 
The atmosphere of the campus is war­like. With only some 600 civilian students out of a total of 2,500, it could hardly be otherwise. Add to the 1,900 naval students the 1,200 midshipmen who are on the campus but who are not Notre Dame students, and you have a pretty large naval establishment. Then mix in a large quota of naval administrative personnel and teaching personnel and you can see the result. 

Is it any wonder that any^vhere on the campus, practically any time of the day, you have to wait for a line of marching feet to pass? Or that some­times there's scarcely a civilian in the Caf? 
There would be no point in claiming that the beginnings of the Navy's V-12 program at Notre Dame in July were all serene. They weren't. Be^nnings of any­thing so huge and so different seldom are. For instance, many of the V-12s 
 Pases 16 and 17) 
ties — some of them to extent that Oiey had only a semester or two to go at Notre Dame — and resulting crossfire of credits and courses was, in some cases, exceedingly puzzling. 
Too there was the constant question­ing as to where civilian authority stopped and military authority began — in academic matters, in discipline, in ath­letics and elsewhere. And there were many new policies to be established and lots of tact to be exercised. The opera­tion of the Dining Hall, in view of the food shortages and of rationing, is a constant headache. The laundry is seri­ously overburdened. 
But it can be said, in the utmost truth, that the V-12 progi-am, like the midship­man program which preceded it, is work­ing out at Notre Dame with the maxi­mum of satisfaction and good results all around. Ask either the Navy or Notre Dame if you don't believe it. 
.\s you may recall, the V-12 group at The midshipmen occupy Lyons, Morris­sey, Howard and Badin halls, and the remaining halls are available for ci­vilians. 

What is the mode of V-12 life? Well, it's rigorous — definitely not "country club." Yet, in many ways the V-12s lead the lives of the Notre Dame stu­dents you used to know. They attend classes along with civilians, and they don't march to classes. They have rec­tors and prefects (priests) in their halls. They buy out the Huddle regularly, and in their very limited free time they play touch football sometimes and have bull sessions and gripe about the food. 
They play in the band and orchestra and sing in the Glee Club. They play on the football team, the baseball team, the tennis team, and they're active in many of the campus clubs. 
But there are many and significant differences. The V-12 gets out of bed — and promptly — at 6 o'clock every morn­ing except Sunday. He has a good hard spot of calisthenics at 6:10. He marches to breakfast (and to dinner and supper). He makes his own bed and cleans his own room and keeps it in A-1 order. 
The early morning schedule of the V­(Continucd on Prtzs 10) 

had been to other colleges and universi­Father Sorin Guides Their Marching Feet 


Father Sorin's Notre Dame 
In Which the Rich Traditions of a Christian 
Culture Are Rooted in the Rugsed Manual 

Demands of a School on America's Frontier 
By Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., '25, University Archivist 
(Ed. Note: Under the guidance of Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, the University has stood forth in this war era with a dual record of achievement, full cooperation with the government in its war effort, and at the sa7ne time a preservation of the tradi­tions of the liberal arts as embodied in the history of the University. How deep-rooted these traditions are, and hoiv care­fully they have been nourished through other periods of adversity, is shoivn in the following article for which the ALUMNUS is indebted to Rev. Thomas 
T. McAvoy, C.S.C., '25, tvhose work in the rich archives of the University brijigs here another chapter of detail. Much of this ivas i7npossible to embody in the compact yet comprehensive history which Rev. Arthur J. Hope, CS.C, '20, so ably prepared for the Centenary.) 

Had Montalemhert added a new chap­ter to his Monks of the West, this chap­ter might well have told the story of Father Edward Sorin's frontier school in the wilderness of northern Indiana. Be­fore Sorin, the patriarch of the western missions, Stephen Theodore Badin, had chosen the site—a small clearing over­looking Lake St. Mary—but only a build­er like Sorin could have foretold, as he did on that cold Kov. 26, 1842, of the future of this log cabin school. 
The Brothers who rejoiced to share his physical sufferings from cold and hunger, the South Bend fur trader Co­quillard, the friendly neighbors who helped him construct the new log chapel, all saw in this tall strong Frenchman the pioneering spirit of Western mona­chism. His piercing eye and his firm set chin spoke much more clearly than his meager English of the college of Notre Dame he intended to build. Within a year the miracle began to unfold. Stu­dents'began to arrive from distant fam­ilies and a brick building arose within the increased clearing. The bricks of the new building were made by the Brothers, who made other bricks for sale and wh<» tended the growing farm. 
Additional priests and Brothers and Sisters of Holy Cross came to fill out the outlines of this school in the wilderness. Before the brick building had been occu­pied, in January, 1844, the State of In­diana granted a charter to this new University of Notre Dame. 
Sorin and his companions would have resented the suggestion that this was not Our Lady's school, but to the bishops of the United States, to Purcell, Spalding, and Hughes and to all who knew, this was Sorin's school as well as Notre Dame's. Sorin was the .product of post-revolutionary French Catholicism and his conununity belonged to that revived Catholicism. Certainly his college must teach Latin and Greek, mathematics and philosophy, just as the French colleges did, when suitable students could be found; but for the present wilderness, manual trades and more practical learn­ing were needed in this frontier environ­ment. Thus was begun the first of Sorin's battles, that for the very survival of his school, a battle that lasted nearly the whole of his 50 years at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame of the 1840's was a mon­astery school on the frontier with hut a hope for a college; but, while the ap­prentices learned their trades and the priests spent their free time visiting the Catholics of the neighboring towns, ser­ious efforts were made to teach the arts. Father Michael Shawe was brought to the college to teach the higher forms of English poetry and prose. Newly arrived French clergymen, while acting as mis­
Very Bev. Edward Sorin. CS.C. sionaries to the other settlements, taught 
Latin and Greek and French. A layman, Max Girac, was hired to teach music. Oratory of a flowery sort and declama­tions were insisted upon. How these priests must have smiled at these earnest efforts when they remembered their own seminary training in France! 
Yet, in the Indiana of that day these accomplishments were not small. Sorin, his companions. Fathers Alexis Granger and Francis Cointet, Brothers Vincent, Gatien and Lawrence, and the laymen, Girac and Joseph Lyons, had ths aggres­siveness of the typical American fron­tiersmen, sanctified by the religious spir­it of mediaeval Europe. They had also that mediaeval devotion to the Blessed Virgin which Henry Adams saw as the dynamo in the building of Europe's great cathedrals. Here was the spirit of Cath­olic France on the American frontier. Others, typical of the Catholic immi­grants of the day, came to woi-k in this monastic school, such as the Fathers James and Patrick Dillon, William Cor­by, Paul Gillen and Peter Paul Cooney. But the frontier fight for subsistence was not easily won. 
Sometimes poverty seemed victorious, as when the horses were unhitched from the plow to prevent the foreclosure of a mortgage; and more than once cholera devastated the ranks of faculty and stu­dents alike. Yet, when the Civil War came, a growing Notre Dame sent eight priests as chaplains and many students as soldiers in the service of the Union. And when the war was over prosperity required a newer and better college build­ing. Archbishop John Martin Spalding came from Baltimore in 1866 to attend the unveiling of the statue of Our Lady above the new Notre Dame whose stu­dents came from all sections of American Catholicism. 
Sorin had that ruggedriess and cour­age with which the American pioneer conquered the \vildemess and went on to create new standards. He established the first free school for manual training in the West. He was one of the first to in­stall steam heat in his new building. He established the first Catholic law school and the first Catholic school of engineer­ing in the country. He began publishing The Ave Maria in 1865 and planned a shrine for Our Lady. But suddenly when the wilderness college seemed to be at­taining maturity, on April 23, 1879, a devastating fire reduced Serin's college to ashes. For him to begin again at the age of 65 seemed impossible. Yet, this bearded priest, not yet bent by his years, gathered -his flock into the unfinished church and announced the new Notre Dame. 
Within a few months the new and greater Notre Dame arose from these ashes—consisting of brick and stone but really built of the faith, the zeal and spirit of Edward Sorin. About him la­bored others, such as Father Alexis Granger, the Saint of the campus; Fath­er Thomas Walsh, the brilliant orator; Father William Corby, the builder; Fa-
Fathers Hudson and Coronaugh 

ther Joseph Carrier, the scientist; and Father August Lemonnier, the student. But when Notre Dame celebrated Serin's golden jubilee in 1888, Cardinal James Gibbons, Archbishop John Ireland and other leaders of the church came to the monastic tovvn to celebrate the handi­work and the life of Edward Sorin: Death soon closed his long career. Soon after Sorin, Granger, Walsh and Corby followed him to their reward. 
The second generation of Notre Dame possessed no second Sorin, but the age of the frontiersman had passed. Amer­ica's pioneer was no longer the trapper and the hunter but the pioneer of the nineteenth century science. Notre Dame continued to have monastic scholars. Fathers John Scheier, Stanislaus Fitte and Nicholas Stoffel and William Hoynes and James Edv/ards who labored in the classrooms to improve the standards in the teaching of the arts. 
But in the spirit of the time it was a young favorite of Father Sorin, Father John Augustine Zahm, who carried on his work in building the greater Notre Dame. Ordained in 1876 with the gentle Father Daniel Hudson, who achieved his own success in the field of religious jour­nalism as editor of The Ave Maria, Zahm was made almost at once vice-president and head of the depailment of science. 
Associated with him were Fathers Al­exander and Joseph Kirsch and his brother, Albert Zahm, the studious pi­oneer in aerial navigation. Science Hall soon boasted of all the equipment that limited resources could obtain and in­vestigations were encouraged in line wth the expanding physical sciences of the turn of the century. Although never destined to be actually the president of Notre Dame, Zahm as Provincial Super­ior, became the second founder of the college by making the first great im­provement on the plan of Father Sorin. He himself wrote on the physics of sound and music, and, after the opening at­tacks of Darwinians on religion, he pre­pared lectures and learned treatises to deny the pretended conflict between sci­ence and religion. He gave to the young­er men of Holy Cross opportunities for study and made Notre Dame's scientific leadership real not only by his writings and by his activities in the new Summer Schools but also by active participation in international scientific congresses. 
Zahm anticipated by a generation our recent interest in Latin America. And, when retired from his leadership at No­tre Dame, he headed scientific expedi­tions to Mexico and South America, one of which v/as with ex-President Theodore Roosevelt, and he wrote fascinating books of travel and description based upon those explorations. To his contributions to science and Pan-America at Notre Dame he added also one of the finest Dante collections in the new world. Zahm had the zeal of the empire builders of the growing America and while he was checked so often by the limited resources at his command he gave a forward im­petus to the college that carried Notre Dame to accomplishments beyond its meager physical assets. 
Zahm's years of • active leadership lasted only about a decade after Sorin, and one of his final acts as Provincial Superior was the appointment of the brilliant crater and scholar. Father John 
W. Cavanaugh, as president of Serin's Notre Dame. Father Cavanaugh's voice possessed the mellow tones suited to the Ruskin-Iike imagery of his speech. His defense of classical education came from his personal yearnings after deeper cul­ture. Although most of his higher educa­tion came through hard study while he prefected the student halls of Notre Dame, he could read with pleasure the classic lines of Virgil and the other Latin poets, knew the literary master­pieces of the Western world and had filled his mind with the finest of English poetry and prose. Taken from the quiet of the cloister to guide the destinies of the young college of Notre Dame, he formed living youths instead of writing books. His admirers were legion and for them Notre Dame meant the president of Notre Dame, the charming talker, the inspirer. 
(Continued on Pace 31) 


1,147 RECEIVE COMMISSIONS 
The third class, comprising 1447 new 


STUDENT NOTES 
ensigns, was graduated from the United 
An Earlier Notre Dame Band "Spells It Out" 
If we can pull our eyes away from Ann Arbor — this is the week before the Michigan game — we'll tell you about — 
The Georgia Tech week-end: it was made permanently notable, doubtless, by that 55-13 score, when all the cam­pus had been hoping for victory by one touchdo\vn or less; but the Engineers Ball and the N.R.O.T.C. Ball, both on Friday night, added color and zest to the week-end. A dance in the Navy's campus drill hall on Saturday night was an innovation of the week-end, and a remarkably successful one. Oh yes, — the weather was perfect — nothing less! 
The band, about half Navy and Ma­rine (wearing their regular uniforms), and half civilian, did a magnificent job between the halves. H. Lee Hope, its director, has his troubles all week too, what with practices at 6 P.M. on Car­tier Field every night. The majority can't get there earlier. 

Clashmore Mike, the team mascot for these many years, reappeared in time for the game after being lost for several days. He was found in the northwest end of South Bend by certain young sons of certain suspicious characters. There was talk that it was all a publici­ty stunt. For further information, see the academic publicity director of' the University. 
States Naval Reserve Midshipmen School at Notre Dame bn Sept. 22. The -exercises took place in the naval drill 
hall on the campus. 
Speaker for the ocasion was Rear Ad­

miral Randall Jacobs, naval chief of 
personnel, Washington, D. C. Both Ad­
miral Jacobs, and Capt. H. P. Burnett, 
local naval commandant, who introdneed 
him, praised highly the cooperation of 
Notre Dame in naval training. 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president 
of the University, offered the invocation 
at the graduation ceremonies, and Rev. 
Robert M. Sell, pastor of St. Paul's Me­
morial Methodist Church, South Bend, 
offered the benediction. Capt. Emmanuel 
A. Lofquist, chief of staff of the Ninth Naval District, Great Lakes, HL, pre­sented the diplomas and commissions. The midshipman orchestra played and the Captain Burnett midshipman choir sang. 
TRANSLATES FRENCH MANUSCRIFT 
Dr. Norbert L. Noecker, member of 
the biology faculty at Notre Dame, has 
made a notable contribution in the field 
of science by his translation and revision 
of a French manuscript written by the 
internationally famous Swiss biologist. 
Dr. William H. Schopfer, director of the 
Botanical Institute at the University of 
Berne, Switzerland. 
The volume, entitled Plants and Vita­
mins, represents a critical review of vi­
tamin problems from the viewpoint of 
general physiology, chemistry and the 
field of nutrition. 
Dr. Noecker was graduated from Iowa 
State Teachers College in 1930, received 
his M.S. from Iowa State College in 1932 
and his Ph.D. from the University of 
Wisconsin in 1937. He has been on the 
Notre Dame faculty since 1939. 
MARTIN J. GILLEN. LLD. '35. DIES SEPT. 22 
The University of Notre Dame lost a distinguished friend, honorary alumnus, and benefactor, when Martin J. Gillen, la^vyer-ecohomist, died on Sept. 22 in the beautiful surroundings of Land-0'­Lakes, Wis., which through his generosi­ty had already become the property of Notre Dame. 
Mr. Gillen was buried on Sept. 25 from St. Patrick's Church, Racine, Wis., where a parochial school was built by him as a memorial to his mother. Most Rev. John 
F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., celebrated the Requiem Mass. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame, repre­sented the University, as did Revs. Pat­rick Haggerty, C.S.C, and John Devers, C.S.C, of Watertown, Wis., and Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C. 
Mr. Gillen had a rich background of legal practice, which he broadened with business administration and an inten­sive study of economics. He became the friend of several presidents, many sena­tors and governors. Bernard Baruch, Joseph Tumulty and many high figures in public life extended their condolences at the time of his death. 
In 1915 Martin Gillen drew up a plan for industrial mobilization, and in 1917 a plan for municipal mobilization, both of which caused his call to Washington in World War I as a ?l-a-year economic advisor. Another of his great contribu­tions to economics was his "international balance sheet" between the U.S. and the world, drawn up in 1922. He helped evolve a plan of gathering farm data which is still in use. 
His gift of some 6,000 acres of land surrounding his summer home in Land­O'-Lakes, on the Wisconsin-Michigan border, gives Notre Dame a magnifi­cent tract which tentatively is to be de­veloped for" scientific research, with the possibility of a boys camp and other aca­demic development. 
MI*. Gillen, an honorary LL.D. in 1935, is survived by his brother, Edward, of Milwaukee, and a sister, Mrs. Kenneth Higby, Ripon, Wis. 
By BAYMOMD J. DONOVAN. '42 

ATHLETICS 
FOOTBALL 
Faced with a ten-game schedule every bit as tough as the 1942 grind, the Fight­ing Irish of 1943 got oflf to a flying start with a 41-0 win over a weak Pitt eleven on Sept. 25. 
Despite the overwhelming score, the largest in the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh series since its inception in 1909, the coaching staff emphasizes the need for plenty of hard fundamental drills be­fore plunging in to the remainder of the schedule. Pittsburgh was a woefully weak machine, hardly better than a good high school eleven. Although in streaks the Irish looked exceptionally polished during the opener, poor ball handling and timing of backs made it apparent that the boys still need a lot of hard work to strengthen this phase of the team's attack. 
After a month of fall practice and a little game experience under their belts, it has become fairly evident that Notre Dame will have a good first team, but will be sadly lacking in reserve strength. The decline in the caliber of talent be­tween first and second teams leaves no doubt that Coach Frank Leahy will be forced to utilize many 60-minute ball players during the campaign. 
Notre Dame, although inaccurately heralded as one of the fortunate univer­sities that has "thousands" of naval trainees from whom to choose its foot­ball team, failed to inherit much actual talent from other schools in the Navy V­12 program. As a matter of cold fact less than 1,900 V-12 trainees are study­ing on the Notre Dame campus. And at this writing it appears that only six have shown suiRcient ability to be carried on the traveling squad. 
Julius Rykovich, a fine running back, is a Marine transfer from the University of Illinois where he was a standout freshman candidate last year; John Perko, second string right guard, is a Marine transfer from the University of Minnesota, as is Vic Kulbitski, at present holding down the second string fullback spot. Ray Davis, second string right halfback, is a Marine transfer from the University of Idaho. Ray Euffel, a Ma­rine transfer from Marquette, is playing left end on the second team, while Mike Todorovich, a Marine transfer from Washington university in St. Louis, is alternating vntb Notre Dame's own Jack Zilly as right end on the second team. 

Angelo Bertelli, whose uncanny accur­acy with his passes has pulled many a game out of the fire for Notre Dame, is proving to be a calm, efficient field gen­eral for the Irish this year in his quar­terback spot. He will be available for only the first six games, as will Capt. Pat Filley, who is, as last year, an iron man in the line. After the Navy game these two stalwarts, attending Notre Dame under the Marine V-12 prog^m, will be sent to Parris Island, S. C, for advanced training, as wU all other sen­iors under the Marine program. J(dmny Lujack, sophomore passing sensation from Connellsville, Pa., will probably be shifted to succeed Bert. Either Perko or Meter will probably be moved up to fill Pat Filley's position. 
At this writing, except for Julius Ry­kovich, the first team is composed of men who played for Notre Dame in 1942. Paul Limont, Hyannis, Mass., gives promise of capably filling Ail-American Bob Dove's shoes at left end, pressed close by Ray Kuffel, and Mike Todoro­vich. At left tackle, Jim'White, Edge­water, N. J., second string tackle last fall, has top hand, followed by Pete Berezney, Jersey City, N. J., and George Sullivan, Walpole, Mass. Behind Capt Pat Filley at left guard is John Perko. Three lads. Herb Coleman, last year's monogram winner from Chester, W. Va., Frank Szymanski, a converted tackle from Detroit, and Art Statuo, Sangns, Mass., rank in that order for the center post. Sophomore Joe Signaigo, Memphis, Tenn., is the starter at right guard, fol­lowed by Bemie Meter, Cleveland, 0., and Caspar Urban, Lynn, Mass. Ziggy Czarobski, Chicago, has won his spurs at right tackle, pressed by John Adams, Charlestown, Ark. John Yonakor, Dor­chester, Masst, holds a slight edge over Jack Zilly, Southington, Conn., with Jim Flanagan, West Roxbury, Mass., running third. 
Ranking behind Bertelli in the quar­terback post are Johnny Lujack, who alternates between left halfback and quarterback, and Frank Dancewicz, Lynn, Mass. The left halfback job is divided between Lujack and reliable Creighton Miller, Wilmington, Del., fol­lowed by Ray Davis, while the afore­mentioned Rykovich holds down the right halfback spot, followed by Bob Kelly, Chicago, and Bob Falladino, Nat­ick, Mass., Jim Mello, West Warwick, 
R. I., a letter winner last year, appears to have the fullback situation well in hand, with Bob Hanlon, Chicago, and Vic Kulbitski, Marine transfer from Minnesota, vying for second team honors. 
This is the group of iron men who must necessarily take most of the re­sponsibility for carrying the Irish through a suicide schedule. After tan­gling with Georgia Tech, rated the strongest team in the South, and Michi­gan, rated even stronger than last year (ronember?), the Blue and Gold faces a dangerous Wisconsin team; an Illinois squad that scored 13 points on the Iowa Seahawks a few weeks ago; a Navy team reported to be the best in recent years; an Army squad touted as the powerhouse of the East; a Northwestern squad always dangerous under Coach Lynn Waldorf and this year three-deep in veteran material; an Iowa Pre-Flight team that at this writing has over­whelmed Illinois and Ohio State; and a Great Lakes team that last year was noted for becoming tougher as the sea­son progressed. The Sailors, by the way, this year have Steve Juzwik, the Notre Dame backfield ace of a few seasons back, and last year's N.D. freshman, Emil Sitko, cousin of former Irish star Steve Sitko, with whom to. bolster their backfield. 
Wally Ziemba, '43, Hammond, Ind., who was made over by the coaching staff from a good tackle to an outstanding center while at Notre Dame, has re­turned to serve as assistant line coach for the 1943 campaign. A member of the Marine Reserves while at Notre Dame, Ziemba was called into service shortly after graduation, but was given an hon­orable discharge because of a bad knee. He joins Hugh Devore, end coach, Ed McKeever, backfield coach, and Ed (Moose) Krause, line coach, to assist head coach Frank Leahy in developing the 1943 eleven. 
The predominant opinion around Notre Dame regarding chances of the Irish for a successful season this fall is that with a definite lack of reserves, uncertainty of the military status of several of the 
personnel and one of the toughest sched­ules ever faced by a Notre Dame team, the boys will do well to break even in their ten-game schedule. 
TENNIS The Notre Dame tennis team, under the tutorship of Coach Walter Langford, swept through a three-game summer schedule undefeated. 
Led by Apprentice Seaman Charles Samson, Wichita, Kans., V-12 trainee and former Ohio State star, and Notre Dame's own Apprentice Seaman Bob Faught, Cleveland Heights, O., of basketball fame, the netmen breezed through two matches with Western Michigan's Bronchos and a match with the Notre Dame midshipmen unscathed. 
Other stalwarts on the summer net team were Ed Caparo, N.R.O.T.C., South Bend hold-over from the spring squad. Marine Private Bob Paddock, In­dianapolis, Apprentice Seaman Jim Grif­fin, Evanston, 111., and Apprentice Sea­man Tom Herbert, of Auburn, N. Y. 
BASEBALL Employing a team composed entirely of V-12 trainees. Coach Jake Kline pi­loted the Irish nine to seven victories in 12 games against some of the midwest's toughest teams this summer. 
After copping three straight games against Bunker Hill Naval station in Peru, Ind., Camp Custer, and the Knights of Pythias, one of South Bend's stronger independent teams, the Irish met their first defeat at the hands of the Indiana State Prison and their second against the Hammond (Ind.) All-Stars, before bouncing back on the victory trail. Rounding out the season, the Irish de­feated Bunker Hill and Camp Custer again and routed Freeman Field, while dropping contests to Camp Grant's War­riors and the Michigan City Cubs, north-em Indiana semi-pro powerhouse. 
In the fifth loss of the season Lt. Mickey Cochrane and his contingent of former major and minor leag^ue stars from the Great Lakes Naval Training Station jolted the Blue and Gold before one of the largest crowds ever to witness a baseball game on Cartier Field. The score was 6 to 2. First Baseman Johnny Mize was Great Lakes' big attraction. 
Marine Private Andy Phillip, famed University of Illinois basketball ace, headed the Irish pitching staif through­out the. season, while Apprentice Sea­man Bob Klein, of Buffalo, N. Y., led the hitting parade with a .450 average. Apprentice Seaman Tom Sheehan, New Haven, Conn., was second among the 
GENERAL DRUM TO NEW POST 

Lt. Gen. Hugh A. Drum, Laetare Medalist of 1940, has been assigned as chairman of the Inter-American Defense Board with temporary duty in Washing­ton, D. C. The board is a permanent organization of Army, Navy and avia­tion technical exi>erts appointed by the governments of 21 American republics. It is charged with studying and recom­mending measures for the defense of the hemisphere. 
General Drum had been commander of the Eastern Defense Command and the First Army with headquarters in New York City. 
MSGR. SHEEN SPEAKS AT NJ). 

Rt. Rev. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, nationally known to untold thousands through his association with the radio Catholic Hour, returned to Notre Dame on Sept. 9 and 10 for two addresses. He spoke each night in the Navy Drill Hall to an audioice of approximately 1,500 composed of civilian students, militaiy students, midshipmen and South Bend residents. 
1943 FOOTBALL ROSTER 
Name Pa*. Honw Town Age Wt HL Esp. 
Adams, John W  R.T.  Charlestown, Ark  21  212  6'7''  1  
Angsman, Elmer J  „.L.H.  Chicago, 111  17  185  5'11"  0  
Berezney, Peter, Jr.  L.T.  Jersey, N. J  19  215  &2r  0  
Bertelli, Angelo B  Q.B.  W. Springfield, Mass. 22  173  6'1'  2  
Cibula, George  LT.  Chicago, ni  18  197  5'11"  0  
Coleman, Herbert E  _C.  Chester, W. Va  20  198  e'l"  1  
Czarobski, Zygmont  R.T.  Chicago, in.  21  212  6'  1  
Dancewicz, Frank J.  Q.B.  Lynn, Mass.  18  173  5'10"  0  
Davis, Raymond  L.H.  Spokane, Wash.  23  170  5'10' *3  
Earley, J. Frederick  R.H.  Parkersburg, W. Va. 18  165  5'7"  0  
Filley, Patrick J  ..L.G.  South Bend, Ind  21  175  5'8'  2  
Flanagan, James  L.E.  W. Roxbury, Mass  20  175  6'%"  0  
Ford, Gerard W  L.E.  St. Louis, Mo.  18  188  6'%"  0  
Ganey, Michael  R.T.  Chicago, ni.  17  194  6'  0  
Hanlon, Robert S  F.B.  Chicago, 111  19  185  61"  0  
Kelly, Robert J  R.H.  Chicago,  n  -.18  178  5'9%" 0  
Krupa, Edward HKuffel, Raymond  R.H.  L.E.  Flint, Mich.Milwaukee, Wis.  21  21  178 210  yu" 6'3"  1 *1  
Kulbitski, Victor J  F.B.  St. Paul, Minn  22  203  S'll" *2  
Limont, J. Paul  L.E.  Hyannis, Mass  ..20  185  6'2"  1  
Lujack, John  L.H.  Connellsville, Pa.  18  180  6'  0  
Lyden, Michael P. Jr.  C.  Youngstown, Ohio  17  188  e2'  0  
Manzo, Michael  L.T.  Medford, Mass  20  205  S'lV  0  
Mello, James A  F.B.  W. Warwick, R. L -.21  185  5'11''  1  
Meter, Bernard  R.G.  Cleveland, Ohio  .19  185  5'10"  1  
Mieszkowski, Edward  R.T.  Chicago, HI.  17  205  6'1'  0  
Miller, Creighton  .-...L.H.  Wilmington, Del  22  190  6*2"  2  
Palladino, Robert F  R.H.  Natick, Mass.  18  175  5'10"  0  
Perko, John F  L.G.  Ely, Minn  22  200  S'll" *1  
Rellas, Chris S  R.E.  Nashua, N. H  21  183  6'  0  
Renaud, Charles  L.G.  Fort Worth, Texas  16  185  5'8"  0  
Ruggiero, Frank A  L.T.  Orange, N. J.  20  215  5'8%" ' 0  
Rykovich, Julius A.  F.B.  Gary, Ind.  20  190  6'%"  0  
Signaigo, Joseph S  R.G.  Memphis, Tenn.  20  200  6'  0  
Skat, Al  Q.B.  Milwaukee, Wis  21  170  5'10"  0  
Snyder, James  F.B.  Taflf, California  17  188  5'5"  0  
Statuto, Arthur J  C.  Saugns, Mass  18  190  6'2"  0  
Sullivan, George A  L.T.  E. Walpole, Mass  -17  205  6'2%"  0  
Szymanski, Francis S  C.  Detroit, Mich  20  197  6'  1  
Terlep, George  Q.B.  Elkhart, Ind  20  165  5'8"  0  
Todorovich, Marko S  R.E.  St. Louis, Mo.  .20  205  6'4"  *1  
Trumper, Edward  R.E.  St. Paul, Minn  23  208  6'2''  *1  
Urban, Gasper G.  L.G.  Lynn, Mass  20  190  6'  0  
Waldron, Ronanye  Q.B.  Silver Springs, Md  17  170  S'lO"  0  
White, James J  L.T.  Edgewater, N. J  .22  208  6'2"  1  
Yonakor, John J.  L.E.  Dorchester, Mass  22  220  6'4"  1  
Zilly, John L  R.E.  Southington, Conn  21  188  6'2'  1  

regulars with a .371 mark. * Indicates number of years experience at schools other than Notre Dame. 
WHAT'S IT LIKE NOW 
(Continued from Page 4) 12s doesn't leave much extra time. In all of the V-12 halls, therefore, there are afternoon Masses at 5 o'clock, and one of the V-12 halls has an additional Mass at 6:45 P.M. 
The V-12 isn't permitted to cut a class (except for reasons of illness and emer­gency). He can't leave the campus, un­less he has special permission, except on week-ends. Every night except Saturday he is in bed by 10 P.M. — and that means in bed. 
He has at least one hour of military drill per week in addition to the drilling and inspection incidental to marching to meals, and often there is extra drilling. He has that fierce obstacle course — (across the road from the Biology Build­ing and the heating plant) to conquer in his phy ed classes. 

Always and foreyer there are demer­its for the V-12, a;specified number for specified infractions of the rules, and the list of infractions is practically endless. Any Satur/iay afternoon, when most of the boys, are downtown, you can see a sizable quota of the lads, rifles on shoul­ders, walking off their demerits, over south of the tennis courts at the south end of the campus. 
Discipline for the V-12 is administered directly by the naval authorities. Bnt.all religious personnel and lay personnel who deal with V-12 students have the right and invitation to report lapses of whatever nature, academic or otherwise, and the cooperation between the naval and the non-naval in this regard has pro­duced remarkable results in view of the obvious difficulties involved. 
It need hardly be added that the V­12s work hard at their studies. They have to. A below-par record in even one class for a short period — not a semes­ter — keeps a V-12 out of varsity foot­ball, for instance, and that means that he's out of practice as well as out of competition. A flunking record may send a man out of the V-12 into the routine Navy or Marine training program — the same program he'd be in if he wasn't working for a commission. 
And the V-12s work hard at having 

GIFTS 
.The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: Anonymous '. „ $5,000 (Additional) Indiana Amusement Enterprises, Inc., South Bend 
per John Balaban, Chicago  500  
(Additional)  
Ray v.  Tennes, Chicago  500  
(Additional)  
Anonymous  .....'.  500  
Hugh Dean, Detroit, Michigan  100  
(Additional)  
John J. Moran, Chicago (Additional)  100  
E. Lowitz, New York City  200  
(Additional)  100  
Edward F. Murphy, New York City  50  
Ivar Hennings, South Bend  _  50  
Dr. Bernard A. Kamm, South Bend  
. ,  . (War Bonds)  
Prof. Frederic H. IngersoU, South Bend  10  

To the Thomas J. McKeon Memorial Fund Anonjnmous ?200 
Ai^ 
President of the University. 

a good record all around. Again, they have to because they rise or fall on their records, now and later, and their records are meticulously kept, even down to the last demerit last Friday. 
Downto\vn on week-ends the V-12, like the midshipman, makes the best use of the Service Men's Center, recently moved into its splendid new location in the for­mer Palais Koyale. And, like the'mid­shipman and the civilian he "gets around," meets some of the town's nicest girls and gets invited out to Sun­day dinner sometimes. 
Notre Dame is still Notre Dame but the United States Navy is part of Notre Dame too. 
NEW DEFENSE CLASSES START 

Fall night classes of the Engineering Science, and Management War Train­ing program opened at Notre Dame with a large enrollment from Indiana and nearby Michigan.' New courses were of­fered in office supervision, industrial psychology, applied descriptive geome­try, and basic engineering design. 
While there is no university credit attached to these classes, they are taught in the main by members of the Notre Dame faculty. On completion of the course certificates are given to those who attended the classes regularly and completed the classroom assignments satisfactorily. •— 
The courses, sponsored by the War Man Power Commission, through the TJ. S.. Office of Education and Notre Dame, have trained hundreds of defense workers in the South Bend area for bet­ter jobs. Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C, is in charge of the program at Notre Dame, one of the 79 colleges and uni­versities throughout the country partici­pating in the plan. 
VAUDEVILLE GOES ON 

Ted Smimiotis, senational baton twirl­ing artist hailing from Sodus, Mich., won first prize on Sept. 17 as the Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, sponsored another campus vaudeville show in Washington Hall before an aud­ience that had jammed the venerable auditorium 45 minutes before curtain time. (Ted is appearing through the season with the Notre Dame band.) A total of 13 acts took to the boards. . 
Tom Butler, Elkhart, Ind., and his drums took second place in the show. Vic Kulbitski, football-plajrtng Marine transfer from Minnesota, and Larry Lynch, a Marine from Kansas City, Mo., won third honors with a combination accordion and skating act. Marine Dave Curtin, Rochester, N. Y., was master of ceremonies. 
SfuUlUfUt^ > 
\ MILDEW-PROOFING proces s 
which holds exciting promise of development — especially in the days of peace — is the result of the high chem­ical skill of 37-year-oId Frank J. Sowa, 
B.S. '30, M.S. '31, Ph.D. '33, of the Sowa Chemical Co., New; York City, a former member of the Notre Dame faculty. 
Known as the "Puratized Process," the new process imparts lasting bac­teria and fungi resistance to rayon and all textiles, textile finishes, rubber, leather, paper, paints and plastics. Unique and economical in its methods of application, the "Puratized Process" has already been used to finish millions of yards of government fabrics to con­form with many specifications. Approxi­mately 15 patent applications have re­sulted from it. 

"Puratized Process" is likewise effec­tive in combating the mildew problems associated with food products and with basements. And then, after all, you've made only a bare start on its almost endless possibilities for future applica­tion. 
Frank has licensed Gallowhur & Com­pany, Inc., as Well as the General Dye­stuff Corporation and the Aqua-Sec Corporation, all of New York City, to 
FRANK J. SOWA, '30 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
manufacture and sell the "Puratized 
Process." 
An instructor in chemistry at Notre Dame, either part time or full time, from 1931 to 1936, Frank left the Uni­versity to become director of organic re­search for the Behdix Aviation Corpora­tion, South Bend, where he remained until 1938. 
Moving then to New York City, he became vice-president of the Sowa Lab­oratories, Inc. Since 1939 he has been owner of the Silbrite Chemical Co. as well as the Sowa Chemical Co., which is devoted to research, development and con­sulting in the field of organic chemistry. He also directs research for Gallowhur & Company and he carries on prog^rams of research for the following companies among others: Marshall Eclipse Division of Bendix Aviation Corporation; Kem Plastic Playing Cards, Inc.; American Machine and Foundry Company; Com­ing Glass Works and Air-Craft Marine Products, Inc. 
A close associate at Notre Dame of the late Father Julius A. Nienwiand, C.S.C., world-noted chemist, Frank is the co-author with Father Nienwiand of 25 articles published in various sci­entific journals. And to Father Nieuw­land's 'invaluable inspiration" Frank modestly attributes much of whatever success he has achieved. 
Notre Dame's traditional pioneering in aeronautics is given additional mean­ing with the news that Sister Mary Aquinas, O.S.F., M.S. '42, is today so outstanding in aviation education that she has been made an educational ad­viser to the Civil Aeronautics Authority, Washington, D. C. 
A teacher now in St. Ambrose High School, Ironwood, Mich., this Franciscan nun has enthusiastic classes in pre-flight aeronautics as well as accompanying courses in radio. And, since she herself is the possessor of a pilot's license, she teaches, you may be sure, with that defi­nite authority, practical as well as aca­demic, which appeals to all students. 
Sister Aquinas is collaborating with the Comet Model Airplane Company on a project in which she, in her laboratory course- in Aviation Georgraphy, is de­signing kits of structural model parts. The course itself will later be published if the results warrant publication. And, in collaboration with the National Kadio Institute of Washington, D. C, Sister is working out a one-year course in radio for high schools. In this experimental project she is being assisted by 12 of the teacher-stndents who last summer were in her classes in Aviation Education in Catholic University, Washington, D. C. 
For Sister Aquinas is not only teach­ing air science to high school students; she is also teaching it to high school teachers — many of than nuns — who will teach many other hi'c^ school stu­dents. Next summer, with her aid. Cath­olic University is to have four under­graduate courses in Aviation Education and three graduate conrses, and will have one of the first, if not the first, summer teacher-training sequences of the kind in the country. 
SISTER M. AQUINAS, O.S.F. • • 
—Official OWI Photo ' 

At Catholic University, Sister Aquin­as has become newly familiar with the pioneering in aeronautics of BT.AJberi Zahm, '83, former teacher there as wdl as, earlier, at Notre Dame. In fact, the ^vind tunnel which Dr. Zahm built at. Catholic University while condudang some of his earliest experiments is to be set up in action next summer, accords ing to the present plans, and wOl be: used for experimentation work by. the Sisters in Sister Aquinas'-dasste; • • 
NEW REQORS 

Rev. Thomas A. Kelly, C.S.C, is- thd new rector of St. Edward's Ball,'- stie-' ceeding Rev. Leo W. Gorman','^'C;S.'Ci; who was transferred to Holy Cross Seoir inaiy on the campus. Rev. Joseph' A. Kehoe, C.S.C., has succeeded-Rev; Jobr 
M. Ryan, C.S.C, as rector'of Wal^' Hall. Father Ryan is now stationed in Sacred Heart Parish, New Orleans. 
Second Annual Alumni Fund 
The Centenary Fund, first year of the new alumni annual giving program, was closed on July 31 for fiscal purposes. 
Without the launching of specific plans for the Second Annual Alumni Fund, many giits have already been received from alumni which are so significant in their spontaneity that we feel their acknowledgement in the same fashion as the Centenary Fund will be of real stimulus to our second year's effort, which will begin intensively in October. The acknowledgements include gifts received directly, gifts to the President, gifts through Public Relations. 
As in the Centenary Year, some of the listed gifts are not the real gift of the alomnns, but his habitual Jane or July check of $1, $2,'or ?5 to assure him the "good standing" of the old order. Many of these — we hope — will be multiplied as the year goes on. Some of the listed gifts were belated Centenary gifts, but are just as useful for the University and significant in the new alumni program as though they had been received last year. 
If this second year shows an increase in participants, —more alumni siviaK to Notre Dame than last year, — it will 
mark the real achievement for which the Centenary Fund was a historical 6rst step. If it shows an increase in the amount of 
alumni 6nancial aid, it will mark the beginning of a new era for the University a* well. Plan now to give during this year. 
Buy war bonds — for Notre Dame. 

(Contributions, Aug. I, 1943 to Sept. 29, 1943) 
Prior to 1890 Zahm. Dr. Albert F., '83  _$  100.00  1917 Anonymous  ~  10.00  Heringer, Leo C. _ Kinerk, Lt. ZJOUIS .  10.00 25.00  
Stubbs. Charles J.. '88 _ 1890-99 I^ine, Ferdinand G.. '90 Cooney, James J., '93 Correll. William A., '94 Dannemiller. Albert J., '97  30.00 $ 130.00 5.00 B.OO 10.00 S.OO  O'Donnell, Dr. Leo D. . O'NeilU Hugh M Schaub. Ray A. . 1918 Cullinan. Frank L. _  t_» 25.00 10.00 6.00  50.00  25.00  1925 Cyr, Walter J. Dupay. Peter P. — Kuser, Clarence J. Kestinff, Bernard G. . 0*Neil. Daniel J.  $ 148.00 ,.J 25.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 10.00  
MacNamara. Bev. John A., *97 .  15.00  Hellruns, Herbert C. Hyland, Richard V. _  _ 26.00  100.00  Traynor, John P . Walther, Francis T.  _  10.00 6.00  
1900-1904 •  $ 40.00  $ 150.00  Whitman,  John H. A, .  100.00  
i&unmer, Hon. Ernest E. Ii.. Keyers, Joseph J., '04 . Proctor, Robert E , '04 — Stanford, Gtattan T., '04 . 1905-1909 Daunt, William A., '10  _$ 100.00 5.00 50.00 .. 500.00 ; 655.00 10.00 —$  1919 Lockard. Frank R. 1920 Bailey, James H. — Brennan, James H. 0*Shea. Maurice J. „  .$1,600.00 5.00 10.00 5.00  1926 BidnrilL Arthur J . Broussard, Joseph E., Jr. Collins. Richard J., Jr. -.. Cougfalin, Dr. Bertrand D. . Ctimmins, Robert B. ...  ;. $_  170.00  5.00  100.00 5.00 5.00 S.OO  
Toohey, James A., '08 Carville, Hon. Edward F., 09 Kanaley, Jobn B., '09 Scanlon, Raymond J., '09 ­1910  ; 10.00 6.00 25.00 5.00  55.00  1921 Crau^h, Gerald J. Cusack, Charles E. ... Dettling, John A. Grant, Donald C.  $ 20.00 _» S.OO 25.00 10.00 6.60  Duggan, Edward L. Dunne, Robert V. Farrell. Hiomas A. Griffin, John T. Lovier, Lester L. ... O'Malley. Vincent D. . O'Neill, Daniel J. .  10.00 5.00 50.00 5.00 10.00 50.00 5.00  
Ccvpinser,  Lucius B.  _$  10.00  Witteried, George C. .  5.00  Slater,  Frank  X.  5.00  
Nagelsen,  Lou H .  5.00  $ 51.60  Toomey. Rev. Joseph B. Yawman, Vicmr G ...  10.00 160.00  
1911  $ 15.00  1922  
Qulsh, Francis E. Ryan, William K. Tully," John O. 1912 Howard, Rev. Edward J Anonymous ——:HcGlynn, Joseph B.1913  1- ­™  -S 5.00 1.00 100.00 $ 106.00 $ 5.00 5.00 500.00 t 510.00  Champion Pierre Hilkert, E. John . Lynch. Cletus E. . HcCabe, Ihomas S. Miles, Frank .—_ „ Murphy, William J. Pfeiffer, Edw. H. . Reardon. John B. 1923 Cuddihy, J; Gerald .  ..$__*  600.00 6.00  10.00 6.00 12.60  15.00 6.00 10.00  662.00 10.00  1927 Bonrke, Edward F . . Balpin, John J. Hklpin, Richard L. . Klaas,' Frank H. HcCluskey. Daniel W. KeOirrie. IVaneis T. HcKenna. Walter T. Ryan, Bev. Harry Syan. Paul W. Sheeran. Dr. Daniel H.  $ 430.00 -« 10.00 3.00 3.00 6.00 6.00 6.00 6.00 10.00 10.00 S.OO  
Bums, Dr. John T.  S  5.00  Maino, Carlton  B. _  6.00  Van WalUce, David  6.00  
1914  Valker. Herbert P.  5.00  Wilhelm, Ernest J.  26.00  
s  5.00  t  20.00  $ 91.00  
vrnUh  ^n««T:»h M  5.00  1924  1928  
1915  i  10.00  Ghaussee, Ephrem I#, Donovan, lliomas C.  -»_  S.00  10.00  Amiot. Neil H. Carringer, Edward J,  6.00 5.00  
Ward  Jnhn J  .­.$  10.00 25.00  Gallagher, Rev. Donald S. Glynn, George H. ­Gordon, Ihomas E.  __  26.00  10.00 S.00  Coory, Lt. George, TJSNB . De Bott, Joseph T. Gdardy, Prank M.  50.00 6.00 10.00  
Green, Joseph A.  _  10.00  Glask*, John Jf.  7.00  
Haley, J . Howard  _  50.00  Hurley, William A. __•  6.00  

Th e  Notr e  Dam e  Alumnu s  13  
Jenkins, Augustus E. — McCabe, Herbert P. Shclanskey, Charles J. . Toppinir* Charles G. Winter, Robert P. Wood, Lt. Bernard P. _ 1929 Ahern. Francis D. Curry, James M. Deniger, Beyno!d A. — Hinkel, Uajor John V. . Lehman, David S. . Harkey, TTiomas S. Martin. Joseph R. HcNamara, Capt. Joseph P. .  25.00 5.00 S.OO 5.00 5.00 5.00 $ 137.00 _S 5.00 5.00 _ 100.00 25.00 10.00 25.00 5.00 25.00  1933 Blake, Lt. Marion J. Bolger, Lt. Georff3 E. „ Booth, Murray J. Breen, John F. Buckley, Walter W. Coughlan, Thomas E. Gargaro, Qjl. Ernest J. Grattan, Henry A. ...... Hoyt, John A., Jr. Kaskiw, Dr. Eugene A. „ Loughrey, Charles M. .„ Marra, Francis E. McCaffrey, Lt. David S. McGee, Francis S. Rossiter, Claude L. _  2.50 5.00 2.00 3.00 2.00 5.00 S.0O 30.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 10.00  Schaefer, Francis X. Vance; Casiraer E. ... 1939 Gaglione, Francis J. Gerend. Walter J. _ Honerkarap, Frederick W. _. Hughes. Cpl. Edwin J., Jr. . KUng. Ernest F. Kovalcik, George J. Kvasnak, Comelins J. Lloyd. Frauds W. (EL) McDnrmott, Lt. Edward G. . HeGuiness. John L. Pick. Robert B.  S_»_--_ LOO 2.00  81.00  2.00 5.00 '3.00 10.00  10.00  25.00  25.00  75.00 30.00 50.00 10.00  
Molloy, John G. —.. Niezer, JLouis F. .—™  — —  5.00 10.00  * 90.50  Reilly, Robert M. Ryan. William B., Jr.  _  2.00 5.00  
Plunkett, Donald J. ^  25.00  1934  Shannon. Michael F.'  _  .' S.OO  
Rudd. Joseph  R.  6.00  Astone, Victor C.  1.00  Sullivan, Joseph P.,  Jr.  3.00  
Seitz, Reynolds C. Smith, John A. Sullivan, Lt. John B. 1930.. Bernard, Walter R. Bishko, Michael J. Blatt, Rev. Bernard A. Bondi, August Ii. Bromann, William H., Jr. Carney, Leo H. Gassidy, Lt. John J.  1.00 5.00 5.00 256.00 1.00 2.00 10.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 5.00  Blish, Eugene S. Devine. John A. — Escher, 'Winiam F. Fesler, James C. — Fraser, C. Glynn — Glennon, Joseph R.. Jr. _-Halpin, F. Off., Robert H. Huiskinff, William W. Makart, Capt. Carl D. (M.D.) McCtee, Raymond A. Rickus. Sg t Russell B. Venables, John L.  5.00 S.0O 5.00 5.00 1.20 5.00 1.00 S.OO 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00  I9'I0 Bangert. Capt. Douglas A. . Bertany, Robert E. Borda, Lt. Henry P. Bourke. Sgt. Norman F. ... Bams. Joseph F. Canale. Lt. Philip H., Jr. _ Darroozet. Lt. John L.. Jr. . Del GalzOk Joseph P. Donogfane. Lt. James V.  «-*--_-  2(0.00  25.00 5.00 20.00 S.OO  2S.0O 6.00  10.00 • 5.00  10.00  
Conlin, John H. DeLany, Frederick T. _ Dempsey, Edward J. — Draves, Pvt. Harry W. Hill. Rev. John J. Kelleghan, Joseph H. Halloy, James A. O'Toole, Dr. Richard R. Scholand, Walter J.  5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 10.00  1935 Campbell, John T. . Chayie, Oliver J. — Dubs, Glenn T. Gainer. John J. Holahan, John F. » Jennings. James T*  53.20 5.00 6.00 2.00 5.00 3.00 2.00  Fancoeur. Adrien P. ^_ Fay. Lt. William C. L Femeding. Lt. Thomas C. _ Fleming. WUter L.. Jr. Gentner. Lt. Francis G. Gies. William P. Gofr. Lt. Kenneth J. Haggerty. Ccpt. George G. _ Half. Lt. Edward G.  ---_ 5.00  .8.00 S.00  100.00  20.00 25.00 5.00' 25.00 . 10.00  
Slick, Edwin K, Jr. Sullivan, Donald D. Winkler, Georee F.  5.00 5.00 5.00  Keating, Raymond B. Kunz. J. Jacob Kurzweg, Lt. Victor J., Jr. .  35.00 5.00 5.00  Kessing, Albert H. ' ' .... MeMorrow. Lt. George J. Miholicfa. Ferdinand £.. Jr. .  5.00 -./10.0 0 - 50.00  
1931 Barber, Richard J. Cook, Leo K. Draves, Dr. Edward F. Esan, Daniel J. Gies, Noel M. HiKKinston. James A.  138.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 4.00 5.00 2.00  Maher, Lt. Robert C. Jr. -Maholchic, Paul J. O'Hara, Edward L. Pons, Capt. Adolphe J., Jr. . Schmidt, William E. Stanford, John W., Jr. Welsh, aiflford H. Witchger, Eugene S.  1.00 5.00 3.00 .1.00 10.00 2.00 5.00 10.00  O'Connor, Ffe. Joseph E. _ O'Donnell. Edward J. ptommer, Lt. James W. Saegert.'Gerald Wl 4 Schmit, Qil. Robert F. : Sheridan. Capt. Benjamin M. Sullivan. Lt. Robert E.  -  3,20 2.00 1.00 5.00 3.00 5.00 5.00  
Kerner, John F. McCarthy, William C. __ Miltner, Charles H. Motsett, Rev. C. Bourke . Murphy, Pvt. James G — Perry. Gilbert V. Schmitt, John C. Tuberty, Harold J. Zudeck, Ronald H. 1932 Brennan, Rev. Vincent P. Carey, Joseph H.  1.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 79.00 25.00 5.00  1936 Belden, William H. Brown, Paul H. Cassone, Lt. Peter G. (M.D.) Del Gaizo, Carmine L. Fisher, L t Patrick J. Kolka, Alfred J. Laws, Dr. Kenneth F. Snooks, Richard W. Struck. William L. Sullivan, Lt. Joseph D.  i-$  109.00  10.00 3.00 1.00 S.OO 5.00 2.00 25.00 5.00 S.OO 5.00  1941 Belden, Richard F. • Bradley. Daniel F. Brennan. Pfc. Walter J.. Jr. Brodbeck. Pf c Walter F. Byrnes. Lt. Matthew S. Cariiine. William C , Jr. Carson. William J. DeLay. Lt. Eugene E. '. Farrell. F. Off. Charles J. . Ferraro. Pfc. Stephen P. _ Fisher. John A. : ..  . » 402.20 _». . 10.00 _ 10.00 5.00 •5.00 z. . ­ 5.00 -: 10.00 2.00 3.00 6.00 1.00 6.00  
Culver, Alvin S. Houlahan, Michael L. Judge, William J. Kelley, Edward F., Jr. _.  5.00 2.00 5.00 5.00  1937 Gleassey, John W.  66.00 I.OO  Glenn. William M. Hawes. Ens. William B. Hennessy. Lt. John M. — Judge. Thomas G.  S.00 5.00 5.00 5.00  
Hagarall. William J., Jr. Hagee, Thomas J. Maloy, Kingsley D. McCann, James D., Jr. —  10.00 5.00 2.00 2.00  Hack. Lt. James G. -. Huisking, Francis R. . King, Timothy R. Yazaki, Paul M. J  3.00 5.00 25.00 5.00  Lapilosa.' Pf c Salvatore J. . .Leonard. Sgt. Robert J. Honaghan. John H. Murphy. Lt. John W.  1.00 10.00 5.C0 5.00  
O'Connor, James P.  5.00  O'Omnell, Ensign Francis A. .  6.00  
Oelerich, Francis J.  S.OO  i  39.00  Pattnton, Sg t John W.. Jr. _  15.00  
Prodehl, ClifTord E.  25.00  1938  Rcvnolds, Charles K  '.  -  lO.M  
Renier, Lt. Remi O.  2.00  Cosgrove, Francis P. —  _«  3.00  Reient, Sg t Ronald P.  5.00  
Russo, Dr. Albert J.,  Jr.  20.00  Flanagan, John E.  5.00  Rigney. Ensign Thomas J.  _  • 2.00  
Slader. William T.  5.00  Holtz, Lt. Robert F. __  5.00  Smith, Bernard F.  5.00  
Streb, Lt. Robert C.  5.00  Jodon, Clayton J.  2.00  Stine. Charles E. :  :  SM  
Toussaint, Joseph A.  10.00  Lacey, Major John W.  50.00  Van Swall. Hawley B.  1.00  
Trotter, James M.  10.00  Ledvina. Lt. Jerome P. .  S.OO  
Murphy, James M.  5.00  S  ISO.OO  
$ 163.00  O'Brien, Sgt. Robert L.  3.00  (Continued on Fhge 20)  

« K

ALUMNI CLUBS 
CLEVELAND 
John J. Reidy, '27. 1204 Guardian Bldg., Prcs.; Jon Bc'jon, '33, llSOj Cromwell Ave, Sec 
Ensign Ed Sdiroctcr wrote in from Naval Air Station, Lakehurst, N. J. Said LI. (j.g.) Torn Mulligan had written him from the South Pacific where he's aboard an LCI beat. Tom had seen Chuck ftlacaluso, also on an LCI. Jack Schroeter is a lieut. at an internment camp at AMiite Sul­phur Springs. J<hn Baltes* folks toll us that when last heard from he was in the South Pacific. His mother tells us Gil Coyne is a tech. sgt, at Hdqtrs. in the So. Pacific. Oscar Kohl tells us that he heard from Ray <Buckj-) Dahman last month. He's in the Na^T and was in North Africa. Bill Keyes' mother -writes he is an ensign at Harvard U. and was married 12/26/-12. Licut^ Pierce 0*Connor writes that until about 8/15 he was to be at Class 
1. Basic Officers School, Fort Custer, Mich. Pvt. R. 
E. Dowd -was transferred to Texarkana last May from Aberdeen Proving Grounds and is husj' in­structing units in Depot Supply. Says Joe Sotak is a lieut. in No. Africa and that Bob Grisanti is at Camp Blanding, Fla. Bob Stack writes that he is a cadet in Advanced Navigation S^ool. Hondo, Texas. Jerry Reidy was in town on leave; Looks fine and likes being a lieut. at Chanute Field, III. Val Dealc writes from Boulder Colo., that he's spending 12 hours a day learning Japanese. 
National Alumni President Tom (Telephone) Byrne is drawing up a strong program for the year. Norm Greeney, who works with the Penotes (John and Vin) is godfather for Dr. AI (End) O'Brien's new born boy. Matt Tnidellc, with FHA, is enjoying country life these days, Stan Cofall is doing a swell job as chairman of the Special Events Committee of the Chamber of Commerce. Safety Director Frank Celebrezze has applied for a comm. with the Occupation forces. VJnce Mur­phy writes he is a pfc. at Camp Mackall, N. C. Jim (Red) Callahan is now at Fort Knox for training in the armored division. 
Father Paul Hallinan, '32, ^vrites from the Pa­cific theater and encloses a picture of a chajwi the men in his regiment had built. He states fur­ther that Father Ed Seward is making history in No. Africa. Frank Gaul is a lieut. (sg) at Naval Tr. Station, Norfolk, Va. Tom Conley is general chairman for the Navy-N.D. week-end, Oct. 30, and has John Murphy, Hugh O'Neill, Stan Cofall, Frank Celebrezze, Clayt Lcroux. Pat Canny and Gene Kane, among others, in there pitching -with him. Tom Byrne has the ads rolling in and it looks like a good year. Tom Crosby, of KHnneap­olis, formerly of Toledo, and more recently of Cleveland, is a lieut. in the cavalry at Fort Riley, Kans. Pete Champion's boy, Dave, is in the NR­OTC at N.D. Tom (Telephone) Byrne's sister, Em­anita. is a Wave at Hunter College, N. Y. Dr. Bill Bambridc, a lieut. in the Dental Corps at Great Lakes, HI., i\'rites that his mates are Lt. Cy Caldwell and Doc Crowley, N.D '28. of S t Louis. Says the Navy has swell teeth. Rlike Bisesi. ex. '42. is an MP stationed at Oakwood Country Club, Cleveland. Jack Flynn has written, clearing up the mystery. He is a major. Provost Marshal Air Corps Tech. Tr. Com. at Kearns, Utah. Lt. 
(j.g.) Bob McLauEhlin ^-rites in and says things 
are going fine in the Navy. 
Al Grisanti is running for the council. Heniy (Wage and Hour) Paradis just came through with another seven-pound boy. Karl Martersteck is busy building docks, and CIcte Schneider rebuilding ships. Bob Howlcy writes in that he is an ensign, and now runs a motor torpedo boat somewhere. Bernie Meter is in the Marine Reserve at N.D. and has been playing second string guard in prac­tice. Pat Canny, on vacation at Rye Beach, spent some time with Ted Wrocklage, '26, of Delphos, O., formerly of Cleveland and now -with Proctor and Gamble at Cincinnati. Art Becvar, '33, is a naval ordnance inspector at Fort Wayne, Ind. Still finds time for golf, etc Jack CoUini has been promoted to first Iteut. in the Judge Advo­cates Div. in Washington. His uncle, James Col­lins, is slated for the postmaster job at Cleveland. Dr. Joe Heimsnn is at Camp Patrick Henry. Bob B'orrisscy is now asst. to the president of Natl. Screw and Bolt. Charley Butler is at Camp Santa Anita, Calif., a corporal acting as drum major and arranger for Skinny Innis* Band. Johnny Butler was just appointed senior attorney for the WPA's regional office. 

Jon Bcljon 
CAMP FANNIN, TEXAS 

Ed Doyle, '42, was elected president of the new club at an organisation meeting sponsored on Aug. 22 by the Knights of Columbus of Tyler, Texas, in the local Immaculate Conception Church hall. Joe Rud, ex. '44. was el ctcd secretary-treasurer. George Bariscilto, ex. '44, and Ed han­dled arrangements for the get-together, attended by approximately 100 Notre Dame men and the 
K. of C. officers. 

Cspt, Bernard Flahrlty, special ser\*ice officer of the camp, aided George Bariscillo in assembling a variety of entertainment for the meeting. Rev. Vincent J. Wolfe, pastor of Immaculate Concep­tion parish, and B. J. Powell. local director of the USO. spoke. 
A Sunday gathering for the near future, to combine a Communion-breakfast, picnic and dance, was planned. 
GOGEBIC RANGE 
Joseph G. Baineri, Jr., ex. *31, 1307 Second Ave., K., Hurley, Wis.. Pres.; Eugene R. Zinn. '39, 105-6 Brogan BIdg., Ironwood, Blicfa., Sec 
Joe Raineri, Hurley, Wis., president of the club, has been commissioned a lieutenant, (jg), in the Navy and is awaiting call. . . . Kay Ehli played 40 minutes at tackle in the recent All-Star game in Chicago. He is coaching high school football while awaiting his call to the Navy. 
NEW YORK PARTY 
The New York dub'* annual Army game Reunion and Rally will be in tbe Hotel Commoilore on Fnday night, Nov. 5, under the chairmanship of Jim Carroll. The program will be the u*nal star-studded, glittering one. Pro­ceeds will go to the Army Air Force Relief and the club's ser­vice fund. 

. . . Gene Zinn vras a delegate to the national convention of the K. of C. in Cleveland. . . . Frank Vnkovich, with the VTFB in Washington. 
D. C , recently was home to Ironwood on a visit, 
John BlecE represents the duPont Powder Com­pany in northern Wisconsin and the upper Pe­ninsula of Michigan. Joe Saitta, '40, formerly of South Bend, is the new high school football coach in Bessemer. Mich. 
Vic Lemmcr 

KANSAS CITV 
Hon. Russell Hardy, *I6, 919 Cleveland. Kansas City, Kans., Pres.; Vincent W. De-Coorsey, '39, 1321 Georgia, Kansas City, Kans., Sec 

Benny Sheridan again leading the Fort Riley team: his outfit almost whopped Great Lakes, losing 20-19. Word just received from Ed Reardon, now in Africa. Sicily, or somewhere. Don Blartin, 
' originally from South Dakota, now a resident of our fair city, practicing law. Vince DeCoursey 
LOS ANGELES 
Edmund C. Ashe, ex. '23, 11834 Magnolia Blvd., North Hollywood. Calif, Pres.; Mi­chael F. Shannon, ex. *39. P. O. Box, 631. Tucson, Ariz., Sec; Edward P. Cunningham, '28, 850 W. Washington Blvd., Los Angeles, Acting Sec. 

Its membership riddled by the war, and with most of those who are not actually in uniform under wartime pressure, the club has been in­active for several months. 
Only two meetings have been held so far this year: The Communion Breakfast at Sardi's on Hay 2, and a banquet for Coadi Frank Leahy. 
FVesident John W. Carberry was drafted re­cently and is working in the welfare department and helping coach the football team at the U.S. Naval Training Station at San Diego. He Is suc­ceeded by Edmund C Ashe, a buyer for Lockheed-Vega. Ed recently moved to North Hollywood to he closer to the plant. 
John Rider, who is about to enter the service, and Edward P. Cunningham have taken over the secretarial duties. Ed has been deferred until January. Tom Ashe was elevated to lieutenant (jg), in September and stationed temporarily at the Officers Communication School, Portland, Me^ He is hoping for action on a destroyer soon. Dr. William R. Alolonj*, Jr., is now a lieutenant com­mander. 
Emmett McCabe, who was secretary to Con­gressman John Martin Ccstello, is a major in the Army Air Corps. . . . Sweeney Tuck, in his three years at Northrop Aircraft, has climbed to the head of his department. He is now plant engineer with more than 600 men under him. 
Harty W. Flannery, author of "Assignment to Berlin," and former CBS correspondent in Berlin, is rapidly becoming one of Los Angeles' leading Catholic laymen. Besides his daily CBS commen­tating, and Sunday program (Signals' "Question of the Week") he is much in demand as a speak­er and writer. His graduation speeches at Loyola University and Immaculate Heart College were 
printed in full in several Cathotic periodicals. 
Francis Wallace keeps busy writing at Twenti­eth Century-Fox. . . . Bill Sidenfaden has his own business in Ontario, Calif. Sid is rearing a large family, and has just bought a new home. .. . Jim Kelly, '00, the cIuVs oldest active member, continues as vice-president of the I.os Angeles Soap Go. 
Until a new secretary is elected I would appre­ciate the members communicating news of them­selves and other members to me at the Elks' Hos­pital, P. O. Box 631, Tucson. Ariz. 
Mike Shannon 
RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHWESTERN MASSACHUSEnS 
John J. McLaughlin, *34, Blendon Rd., Cum­berland HUl. B. I.. Prcs.; RasseU L. Hunt. '39, 493 S. Main St , Woonsocket. R. I.. Sec. 
The funeral of Charles A. Grimes, '20, the founder and first president of the club, was held from the home of his mother. North Providence, on Aug. 22. 

A largs group of mourners taxed St. Augustine's Church, Providence. The solemn high Mass was celebrated by Rev. Thomas C. Daffy, C.S.C., head of the Elastcrn Mission Band at North Easton, Mass., with Rev. George P. Benaclia. CS.G., as deacon and Rev. Harold E. Riley, CS.C, as sub-deacon. In the sanctuary were Rer. Joscpli F. Hanna. C.S.C.,: Rev. Charles Mulvey, 0J»., of Providence College; Rev. John J. Tully, Rev. James Beattie, Rev. Francis J. Deery, and Rev. Russel J. McVinney, 
Congressman John P. Fogarty was among those in attendance. 
The active pallbearers were Lt. Frank Carideo, USNR: C.P.O. John Brady, USNR: John J. Mc­Laughlin, president of the club; RnsscU I^ Hnnt, club secretary; Leo R. McAIiran, club treasurer; and Thomas Collins, all Notre Dame alumni. Hon­orary pallbearers were Angostine Hayton, Carle­ton G. MacDanpald, Eugene Moreao, Joim J. Fitzgerald and Cornelius Hackett, also all Notre Dame alumni. 
Russell L. Hant 

FOR GOD. COUNTRY. NOTRE DAME 
IN GLORY EVERLASTING 
Lt. Arthur J, Chadwick, Jr., '36, Am­ityville, L. I., N. Y., a fighter pilot, was killed on July 21 during the invasion 
of Sicily accord­ing to brief word received by the Alumni Office. He was the brother of James H. Chad­vnck, '32. 
Art was in the Army well before Pearl Harbor, serving first as a medical technician 
LT. CHADWICK in a medical de­

tachment. Much to his delight he was able to transfer to the Air Corps. He had been at home on furlough in March, 1943. 
Corp. George R. Jackman, ex. '42, of South Bend, died in North Africa on Sept. 12 after an illness of 13 days from infantile paralysis. His parents and three grandparents survive him. 
George enlisted in the Army Air Corps on Jan. 12, 1942, and had train­ing in Biloxi, Miss., and at the Curtiss-Wright factory in New Jersey. He had arrived overseas in early February of this year. Before entering the service he was employed by the Charles D. Hoyt Company of Mishawaka, Ind. 
Pvt. William F. Higgins, ex. '46, of Youngstown, 0., died on August 4 at North Camp Hood, Texas, as the result of injuries received in a dynamite ex­plosion. He had been in the Army only since July 19. 
Bill had been at Notre Dame only from January to May of 1943, but was known as a particularly zealous Notre Dame student, both in Youngstown and on the campus. Surviving him are his parents and one brother. 
MISSING IN ACTION 

William C. Murphy, '33, Middletown, Conn. Missing in action over France since Aug. 15. 
Ensign John F. Sprague, ex. '43, of Sunnyside, Wash., a fighter pilot. The War Department notified Jack's parents on Aug. 12 that he was missing. 
ENSIGN JOHN F . SFRAGUG, ex. '43 
The Grail of God 
[For the Notre Dame Men 
Fallen in the War) 
By the late 
Rev. Charles L O'Donnell. C.S.C, Chaplain, U.S.A., World War I 
When we come home to Notre Dame As we shall, after alJ, Our eyes will look with newer light On tower and field and hall. But shadows on the cindered path Before our steps will fall. 
The shadowy form, the soundless feet Of boys who used to go A few short years, or even months. 
With high hearts to and fro Along these walks that never now Their moving feet may know. 
The young, the beautiful, the strong— No more our ears shall hark Their footsteps or their voices here By daylight or by dark: It has come home to us, the word.— Death loves a shining mark. 
Illustrious, they are by death But made more lustrous still. Nor can their sun forever sink Behind a-'^tve^ern hill ^ . Whose lives are in their country's blood And all her being thrill. 
Grown sudden men, they quit their books And ^rt them for the wars Who would have guessed what destinies Were written in their stars Here where the peace of heaven broods That never conflict mars. 
They went their way, high-hearted, clean. Not any fear availed To daunt their soul, nor any foe Might boast that they had quailed. Though over them in foreign fields The daisies have prevailed. 
I-et be of sorrow, ring the bells In thunder from the tower. It is a triumph that we keep In this memorial hour. For all their country's greatness now Is borrowed of their power. 
lafe does not come with living. 'Tis not a thing of breath; lif e is that glory's portion Tliey have who drink of death. The Grail of God that gtveth peace And sleep that quickeneth. 

Treviso. Italy, February, 1919 
The United States Navy (V-12) al 
The United States Marines step out in front of the Rockne Memorial. 
Marines at one of their favorite occupa­tions. All Dining Hall food is now served by the cafeteria method. There ore three 
V-12 trainees attack the obstacle course. "shifts" at each meal. 
' The V-12 Navy in formation just in Alumni Hall (left) 
These three pictures include all trainees recenil; campus. Top, V-12 except Marines and NJB.O.T.C.:»' Navy men and civilians join forces in a first-semester zoology class. midshipmen and (at the rear) NJ1.0.T.C.; bottom. W[ 
t Notre Dame (See Story on Page 4) 
n iront of their campus quarters— ) and Dillon Hall. 
Glee Club members—^Navy, Marine and civilian—sing under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtlce from the steps of the Main Building. 
Tise NJl.O.T.C. men are off to dinner from their Walsh Hall home. 
Apprentice  Seaman  William  E. Boss,  
m the  '44, Franklin, O., senior football  manager  
liddle,  and  radio  commentator,  broadcasts  from  Notre Dame's version of jungle life: part of the obstacle course,  
lines.  the campus over WSBT, South Bend.  Alt  pictures  (except  three of complete units  in formation)  by Charles Rejtaudt '47  

DeskabC. James, ex. '45. Pvt.. U.S. Army. Co. 
ADDITIONAL MILITARY MEN* H. Barracks 8, Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ind. 
Devlin. James A., ex. '28. OSA. DEML. U.S. 
(Includine names received and classified up to Sept. 23, 1943) 
Army. Fort Slocum. N. Y. 

Adelo, Abd«Il*h S.. e-x. MG, Prt.. ASFRTC. Co. I. Camp Knxey, Texas. 
Albert, Fr»nd» J., '40. Cliief Specialist. USNR, Recreation Div.. Na»T 103. cjo Fleet Post Oflice, New York City. 
AM, John H., ex. '45, U.S. Army, Co. H6. Recep­tion Center, Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ind. Alexander, Albert J., ex. '41, U.S. Navy. Co. 763, USNTS, Great Lakes, HI. Alexander, Gaido A., ex. '44. P\-t.. 4tli Platoon, 
Co. D. 7th Tms. Bn.. Camp ^^^leele^. Ga. Allen James H., '43, In service. Amberc, Louis E., ex. '45, A/S. V-6. Co. 1143. 
USNTS. Great Lakes. HI. Ancsten, Philip J., '31, U.S. Army. Ankenbardc James R.. ex. '4G. Pvt.. U.S. Army. 
Co. H, Reception, Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. Annitace. Henry G., '40. T\-t.. SCSU 1150, AUS. Tufts Mcd-Dent., 41G Huntington .\vc.. Boston. Mass. 
BaEams, Stephen M., ex. '42. Cpl.. U.S. Army. Banes, Leo J., '33, Sp.lC(R), USNR. Barinrer, John L. ex. *46. A/S, Sf]dn. A. Group 1. 
NAAC. AAFCC, Nasliville, Tenn. Bamett Neil C '36, Ensign, USNR. Flotilla 5. ATB. Little Creek. Va. Bamn, Kev. Edward, ex. '18. Lt., Navy Chaplain. Barry, John W.. '41. USNTS. Columbia Univer­sity, New York City. Bartoska, Jr., Gcorce, ex. '43. In service. Bec](er, Joseph J.. '43, Ensign. USNR. Submarine Chaser Tme. Center Ihliami. Fla. Beixen, John W., '42. Pfc, 1782 Ord. Supply & Maint. Co., 25th OT Bn., SCU 3911. Camp Santa Anita. Arcadia. Calif. Benr, Famcis X., Dr., '38. 1st Lt. Medical Corps. Shepherd Field. Wichita Falls. Texas. Bertany, Robert E., '40, Ensign, USNR. Bidcel, S. Elmore, ex. '30, P\*t.. Camp Claiboume. La. Bosak. John J., '43. U.S. Army. Miami Beach. Fla. Boorfce, James L., '33, LL (j.g), USNR, Pensa­cola. Fla. Bradley, Daniel J.. Dr., '28, In sennce. Brann. William K.. '39, A/C, USNAS. Lakehnrst. 
N.J. Bremer. Frederick G., ex. '46, Pvt. Co. B. USTU 3936, Montana State College. Bozeman. Mont 
Brennan, Joseph J., ex. '45. Pvt., U.S. Army. Co. B, 66th Bn., 14th Tmg. Regt., Hut 3, Platoon 2, Camp Fannin, Texas. 
Brown, Paul H., '36. In service—U.S. Navy. 
Biydses, Ridurd Georse, ex. '44, A/C. Tenn. Poly. Inst, 46 College Time. Det, Cbokeville. Tenn. Barkart, Anielm S., ex, '44. Pvt. Fort Benjamin 
Harrison, Ind. 

Bnike, John T„ '29, L t Comdr., Boston Section Base, Lochwood Basin, Sumner & Border Sts., East Boston, Mass. 
Bonu, James A., '41, U.S. Army. 
Banis. Jshn C, ex. '41, Pfc. 100 Div.. Inf. 397th Hq. Cb., 2nd Bn., APO 447, Fort Jackson. S. C. Bafler. Charles J., '43. Midshipman. USNR. Co­
lumbia U., New York City. Byrne, James'J„ '43. Midshipman. USNR. USNTS. Tower Hall, Chicago. CaUwdl. a J,, Dr., e-x. '25, Lt, USNR, Lake Forest Academy, Lake Forest, 111. Canahan. Edward D , '43. A/C. USNAC, AVesleyan College, Hiddletown, Conn. 
• Names are listed here only once — when they are first received by the Alumni Oflice. Changes in military addresses are included in class news. 
Callahan, Robert J., e.x. '46 Pvt, USMC. Fit 591, 
RDMCB, San Diego, Calif. Campbell. James L., ex. '45. In ser\-ice. Carabasi, Ralph A., '43, Medical student — Army 
Specialist Unit Carlierry, John W., '35, 3/C, Sp. 12, Welfare Dept, USNTS, San Diego, Calif. Carpenter, Robert L., ex. '44, Pvt, 51, TG Flight 
183, Kecsler Field. Miss. Carr, Joseph P., ex. '40, 1st Lt, Army Air Corps. Carson, William J., '41, U.S. Army. Cassone, Peter G., '37, L t (j.g.), USNR, Medical 
Corps, 

Ca\-Bnaa:h, Charles W., '42, 2nd Lt, Co. C, 9th Bn., 1st Rep. Depot APO 761. cJo Postmaster, New York City. 
Celebrczze, Frank D., '25. Major, U.S. Army. Cenni, Louis J., '40, Ensign, USNR (Senior Medi­cal student). Qarke, William A., ex. '45, Pfc. 3500 Whitehaven Pk-wy.. N.W.. Washington, D. C. 
Clemens, Thomas C., ex. '44, Pvt. U.S. Army, Co. D, 3rd Platoon, 7th Bn., Camp Wheeler, Ga. Coakley John J., '32, A/S. USNTS. Co. 860, 
Great Lakes, 111. 

Cody, Thomas P.. '42, A/C, USAAF, 1414 East 59th St. International House. Rm. 844, Chicago, 111. 
Coleman, Robert F., '42, Sgt, U.S. Army, 182 Prov. M.P. P/W Det, APO 4707, c/o Postmas­ter, New York City. 
Coleman, William H., ex. '40. Ensign, USNR. CoUeran, Louis C, ex. '45. A/S. AAFCTO Soc. 10, 
Hiram College, Hiram, O. Comerford, Michael B.. '43, Ensign, USNR. Condon, David R., ex. '45, Pvt, Co. A. 1815th 
Unit Eighth Service Command, Fort Bliss, Tex. Constantine, Clement E., '44, Pvt, U.S. Army, Co. H, R.C. Bks. 5, Fort Devens, Mass. Cook, Kelly F., ex. '44. 414 Trng. Group, Flight Y, BTC No. 4, Miami Beach, Fla. Cordes, Jerome F., ex. '43, Pfc, Northwestern University Med. School, Chicago, III. Cordesman, Ellsworth A., ex. '46, Pvt, Co. B, 
Bks. 1055, 1631 SURRC. Fort Custer, Mich. Creevy, Richard C, '43, In service. Cronin, John M,, '40, Cpl., U.S. Army, Hdqs. 
Btry, 42nd Div. Arty., APO 411, Camp Graber, Okla. Crowley Bernard P., Dr., '28, L t (s.g.), USNR. NTS, Great Lakes, 111. Cummings, Paul W., '36 Co. D, 6th Trng. Bn., 4th Platoon, Camp Wheeler, Ga. Cyr, Edward C., ex. '44, Pvt, Co. D, 9th Bn.. 3rd Regt, Fort McClellan. Ala. 
Dahm, Heniy L., '42, Pvt, U.S. Army, Co. B, 1st Platoon, 76th Inf. Tmg. Bn., Camp Boberts. Calif. 
Dahman, Raymond J., '28, In service — overseas. Daniels,' William F., ex. '46, Navigation Cadet AAF, Navigation School, San Marcos, Texas. Darcy, William J., '36. Ensign, USNR, Armed 
Guard Center, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Darmody, Philip A., '33, L t (j.g.), USNB..BureaD of Aeronautics, Special Devices Section Tms. Div., 610 H St, N.K, Washington, D. O. 
Deahl. Warren A., '41, Pvt.. Co. A. 128th Bn., 3rd Platoon, 1st Regt, North Camp Hook, Tex. DeCourtey Raymond M.. '25, Stevedore FViol, A­
2-103, Camp Peary, Va. Dehmer. Paul A., ex. '45, AAF Pilot School 
(Basic), Cburtland A.A. Held, Cburttand, Ala. Delaney, Francis J., '38, Ensign, USNR. Del Gaizo. Joseph P.. '40, Sqdn. A-7, Class 44E, 
AAFPFS, Maxwell Field, Ala. Demetrio, Georxe T.. '35. L t (jg). Naval Air Station, Quonset Point, R .1. 
Dewes. Frederick G., '43, Pvt. U.S. Army. Btry. C, Gth Bn., Fort Eustis, Va. DeWUde, John B., '34, Lt (jg), USNAS. Atlanta, 
Ga. Dillon. William S., '43, In service. Dimond, Joseph H.. '42. 2nd Lt, U.S. Army. Adj. 
Gen. DCS. Fort Washington. Md. Dorsey, John J., Dr., '34. U.S. Navy Medical Corps. Downey. Daniel, ex. '44. U.S. Army. Camp Rob­erts, Calif. Doyle. John T.. ex. '40. In service. Doyle, <Joseph P.. ex. '46. A/S. USNTS, Co. 473, Great Lakes. III. Dudley. Ambrose F., '43. USAAF, Navigation Pre-Flight, Selman Field. Monroe, La. Danleavy. Jchn J., ex. '45, Pvt, U.S. Army, 5th Rec. Co., Area B. Camp Upton. N. Y. Durbin, Julian V., '43, Naval Training School. Harvard U.. Cambridge, Mass. Datton, James J., '36, U.S. Coast Guard. Eariey. WiUiam J., '43, A/S, 42 Ckjllege Trng. Det, Sqdn. B, Maryville, Tenn. Efcert. Neil W., '33, L t (jg). USNR. Box 27. BIdg. 704, Jacksonville. Fla. Eble, Paul F.. '38. 2nd Lt. U.S. Army Signal Corps. Fort Monmouth. N. J. Ebli. Raymond H.. '42. Enlisted in NavT. EidMm. Frederick A., ex. '44. U.S. Army. Camp Roberts. Calif. Enright. Rex E.. '26. Lt, USNR. U.S. NavT Pre-Flight School, U. of Georgia, Athens, Ga. Etfaier, John L., ex. '46. Pvt.. U.S. Army, Co. C, Gth Inf. Trng. Bn., 2nd Platoon. Camp Wolters. Texas. Evans Frederick O., '43, A/C, Hdq., 43rd CTTD. AC, Memphis State College. Memphis, Tenn. 
FaOon, Robert J., '41, Pvt. U.S. Army, ASTP. 341 Vandcrbilt Hall. Boston. Mass. 
Fancll. WillUm J., '42. Pfc. Co. B. 3211 SC. SU-ASTP, Long Island College of Medicine, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Ferraro, Stephen P., "41. Pfc. 2516 SU Co. F. 1628 44th St . N.W.. Washington 7, D. C. Finnisan, John E., '43, Lt , USMC, USMCAS. Quantico, Va. FInncane, James B., ex. '44, Pvt, USAAC. Tmg. Group 613, Flight 19, AAB, Lincoln, Nebr. ninn, Lt John S.. '30, 175th Station Hospital. APO 877, c/o P.M., Miami, Fla. Florence, Hany A.. '43, Pvt. USMC, Co. E, Inf. Bn., Camp Elliott, San Diego, Calif. Fox, William M., ex. '38, 2nd Lt, U.S. Army Air Force, Moore Field, Texas. Fransioli, V. Garvin, '34, Pvt, Sqdn. C, 23rd Tmg. Group, JefTerson Barracks. Mo. 
Frye. John W., '43. AyS. V-12 (S) 868-99-77. USNR. University of Wisconsin, 1126 Chandler St, Madison, Wis. (Naval Medical student) 
Fulham, Edward T., '40, Ensign, U.S.S. Aylwin, c/o Fleet P.M., San Francisco, Calif. 
Gallaglier, Charles R., '41. Ensign. USNR. Morris 
D.24. Soldiers Field Station, Boston, Mass. GaUacfcer, Thomas F„ '35, Pvt, U.S. Army, Co. A, 304th Sig. Opn. Bn., Camp Swift, Texas. 
Galvin. Thomas F.. ex. '46, Pvt, Co. B, G6th Bn.. 14th Regt, Platoon 2, U.S. Army, Camp Fan­nin Texas. 
Gerauno, Roceo, ex. '45, Pvt, U.S. Army, OJ. H­
6, Reception Center, Fort Benjamin Harrison, ' Ind. Goes, Eugene J., ex. '46, Pvt, 5th Receiving Co., 
Area B, Camp Upton, N. Y. GlOette; Robert E., '43, U.S. Navy, U.SS. Prairie Sutc, New York Oty. Godten, Joseph V., '43, U.S. Army Chemical War­
fare School. 
G<hn, Lamar E., ex. '45, Fvt., Co. I. 6 WHTR, T-270, Camp Lee, Va. Golabtki, Victor R., ex. '44, Pvt., Btry. B, 102nd CA "niB. Bn., Camp HcQuaid. Calif. Gonzalez, Ventara. e.x. '45, Pfc, 410 TSS, Bks. 1030, Army Air Field, Amarillo, Texas. Gorlu, Andrew J., '42, Ensign, USNR, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. Green, Timotby M., ex. '4G, Pvt., Co. A. 31st E.T. Bn., 4th Rest., Fort Leonard Wood. Mo. 
GriSiths. Allen R.. e.^. '46, S2/C, Armed Guard Center, Treasure Island. San Francisco. Calif. Grimes. John O.. ex. '46, Pvt., IT.S. Marines, Pit. 
361, RDHCB. San Diego, Calif. Gainey. John J.. '41, Hq. & Hq. Sqdn., BTC No. 4, AAFTTC, Miami Beach, Fla. Galyassy. Vktor J.. '42, Ensign, USNR. 
Hack. James G, '37, Lt. (jg). Fleet Air Wing Ten, Hdqs. Sqdn., cjo Fleet Post Office, San Francisco, Calif. 
Haefner, Arthur E.. e.x. '46. Pvt., Co. D, 14th Bn., 
4th Rcgt., IRTC. Fort McClellan, Ala. Hagan LoweU L., '34. Lt, (ig), U.S. Navy. Haig, Ransom D.. ex. '45, Pvt., Co. A, 81st Tmg. 
Bn., 17th Reg., Camp Roberts, Calif. Hr.nrahui, Edward V., '43, Pvt., Troop E, 2nd Rcgt, Bks. 2442, Fort Riley, Kans. 
Hardman, Thomas H., e.x. '45, Pvt., Btry. B, 102nd CA. Tng. Bn., Camp McQuaide, Calif. Harrizan. John L., '43, Ensign, USNR, 277 Marl­
borough, Boston 15, Mass. Harrinston, John J., er. '47 S2/C, Bks. No. 9, Sec. AEIO, NATTC, Memphis, Tenn. Hartman. Richard A., ex. '45, Fvt., Co. B, 60th Bn., PI. 2, Camp Wolters, Texas. Healy. Thomas P.. '38, AAC. Det. 22nd Comm. Sqdn., Westover Field. Chicopee Falls, Mass. Hearden. Thomas F., '27. L t (jg). USNR, NTS, Chapel Hill N. C. 
Heinlen. Jerome P., '42. Cannon Cb., 2S9th Inf., 75th Div., APO 451, Fort Leonard Wood, Mo. Heinzen, Ra}'mond J., '43, Aviation Student 500 
E. 4th, Bks. 621, AAFCC, Nashville, Tenn. Hennigan. Thomas A.. '42, Ensign, Amphibious Trng. Base, Camp 2, Fort Pierce, Fla. Herzog, William L., '43, Ensign, USNR, 403 Me­morial Drive, Cambridge 39, Mass. 
Hickey. Gerald A., '41. Ensign, USNR, Construc­tion Bn.. Area B-3, Camp Peary, Williamsburg, Va. 
Hoac Robert J.. '39, Ensign, USNR, BOW, A-52. NOB, Norfolk 11, Va. 
Hogan, Thomas P.. ex. '46, Pvt, Co. B, 10th Med. Tng. Bn., 3rd Pit 10th MRTC, Camp Pickett, Va. 
Uocan. WiUiam J., '40, F\-t, U.S. Army, Co. B. 81st Inf. Trng. Bn., Camp Roberts, Calif. Holland. Edward L.. '43, Ensign, USNR, Norfolk. Va. 
HooSstetter. Robert T.. '40, Ensign, USNR, Cbmm. Office, CFWC, Naval Air Station, San Diego, Calif. 
Honsinger Edward T,. '25, CPO. U.S. Navy, Ath­letic Dcpt., U. of South Carolina, Columbia, 
S. C. 

Hunter, Oliver H., '43, USNTS, Columbia Uni­versity, New York City. 
Jawonki, Walter L., ex. '43. Pvt. Co. H-6, Re­ception Center. Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. Jaxtheimer. John C, '39, Ensign, USNR, SC, 
Naval Supply Depot, Scotia, N. Y. 

Johnston, David C, '42, 2nd Lt., U.S. Marine Air Corps, Torpedo Bombers Pilot, U.S. Marine Base, Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 
9ones, WiUiam G. J., '32, L t (jg). Armed Guard Center. 52 E. First Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. Joyce. James L.. ex. '44, Fvt, Co. D, 16th Bn., 5th Rest., Fort McClellan, Ala. Judge. Charles E.. '27. Co. D. 162nd Inf., APO 41, c/o FM., San Francisco, Calif. 
Kamm. Gerald A., ex. '43. Pvt. Co. H-6, Recep­tion Center, Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. 
Kane. Thomas W:. ex. '46, Aviation Student. Sqdn. 101, Flight J, Bks. 6220, AAFCC. SAA­
CC. San Antonio, Texas. Keating. Walter L.. '43. APO. 7017, c/o PJf., San Francisco, Calif. Keller. Frederick W., '43, Ensign, USNR, Nittany Lion Inn, State College, Pa. Kelley. James W.. e.x. '44. Pvt, Co. A. 132nd Bn., ASTB, North Camp Hood, Texas. Kera, Richard J., '42. 2nd Lt, Inf., 2n Bn.. 1st Regt., Camp Wheeler, Ga. Kerr, WUUam H.. '40, Ensign, USNR, U.S. Navy Pre-Flight School, Athens, Ga. Keyes. William C. '42, Ensign, USNR. NTS, Har­
vard U., Boston. Mass. King, Timothy R., '37, In service. Kinney, Robert E.. ex. '43, Cpl., AST, SCSU 1151. 
Co. C. Section 17. Boston U., Il l Huntington Ave. Boston 16, Mass. Kirby, John C , '42. Qpl., Co. B, 790th M.P. Bn., 
Camp Butner. N. C. Kirby. Kenneth W.. '42, In service. Kirby. Robert E.. ex. '28. Lt., USNR. Kluck, Prosper F., e.x. '46, U.S. Army, St. Peters­
burg, Fla. 
Korty David F., e-x. '45, Pvt, Coast Artillery, Btry. B, 102nd CA. Tng. Bn., Camp McQuaide, Calif. 
Korzen, Bernard J., '28, Co. H. 29th Bn., MPR­TC, Box 119. Bks. 2638, Fort (Sister, Mich. 
Kroell Theodore A., ex. '44, Pvt, 3rd Platoon, Co. A, 31st Inf. Trng. Bn., Camp Croft, S. C. Krueper. Loois W.. e.x. '46, AyS, USNR, Co. 145. 
Great Lakes, 111. Kniycr, Joseph F.. e.x. '46, Pvt., USMC, Pit. 416, RDMCB, San Diego, Calif. 
Lantrj-, Thomas F.. '30, USAAC, 1 Fiark Ave., New York City. Lazio, Michelino J., e.x. '43, U.S. Naval Tmg. Station, Great Lakes, III. 
Lewis, Leo J., ex. '43. Lt, AAC, 807 Sqdn.. 471 Bomb Group, Pueblo Army Air Base, Pueblo, O)lo. 
LUUg, F. Norman. '30, Lt. (jg), USNR, U.S. Navy Supply Corps, Navy Supply Depot, Bay­onne, N. J. 
Love. Charles K.. ex. "38, Ensign. USNR, Naval Air Force. 
Maher, Robert C, '35, 1st Lt., 23rd Field Hospi­tal, Camp White, Ore. Mann. James E., '39, Ensign, USNR, Supply Corps, N.A.S., New Orleans, La. Marcin, Joseph N.. '43, Operational Tmg. Sqdn. No. 8, USMC Air Station, Cherry Point, N. C. 
Marshall, Charles, ex. '47. Bugler 2yC. Asst Egstrm.. 27th Reg., BIdg. 2G00-N, USNTS, Great Lakes. III. 
Marshall, John F.. '32, A/S, Co. 998, 49th Batt., 
NTS. Great Lnkes, III. Massulo, Mario D., '43, Ensign, USNR. McCourt. James P.. e.x. '46, A/S, Co. 717. Bks. 
806, USNTS, Great Lakes. III. McCuUion, Bartlry R.. ex. '43, A/S, (>>. 756, US­NTS, Great Lakes. 111. McDonald, Francis T.. '3.'. Ci)l., APO 980, c^o P.M.. Seattle. Wash. McElroy. Andrew R.. ex. '44. Pvt., RRC, Co. H, Fort Devens, Mass. McGab. William J., ex. '45, U.S. Army, Prisoner of War Camp Hdqs. Det, Hereford, Texas. McGrath, Thom:u B, ex. '42, Navigation Cadet, 
AAF Navigation School, San Marcos, Texas. _ McGraw, John J., ex. '43, In service. McKnight, Henry J.. '43, Midshipman, USNR. 
Midshipman School, 847 John Jay Hall, New York City. McLoone. Edward W., '42, 1335 H St. N.W., 2514 SU (AST), Washington, D. C. McNamee. Rowland E., e.x. '32, AyS, Co. 1239, Great Lakes, III. Jlfeagher. Thomas F.. ex. '46, AyS. Co. 570, US­NTS, Great Lakes, III. 
KIMewkrf. WUBBK B.. '43. Midshipman. USNR, V-7, John Jay Hall. 841-B. New York 27. N. T. MOuu. DMUM K , '31. DEU. Det, Hq. SOS. 
APO 871. cyo PJf.. New York City. 
Miller. Joha A., ex. '43. Ensign. USNR. A-T (N). Box 27, BIdg. 711. USNAS. Jacksonville, Ha. Hiller. Hwrnas S,. '43, Midshipman. USNTS. 
Tower Hall. Chicago. III. Monui. Emmett A., '42. Ensign. NTS, Corpus C3>risti, Te-xzs. Morel. Rakrt Beary. ex. '45, Fvt. Reception Center. Co. H. Fort Devens. Mass. 
Maenck. AUert J.. '43. Hdq. Sqdn.. N. Atlantic Wing. Air Thtnsport CommandL Presqoe Isle Army Air Field. Presque Isle. Maine. 
HalBii. Ridurd P., '41. Ensign. D-V (S), (A. 33 Mass.) NTS. Harvard. Cambridge. Mass. 
MahriOe, Minrice F., '33, L t (jg). USNK, Naval Operating Base. Camp Allen — Lion 3. Nor­folk. Va. 
Harphy, Charlea S . e.x. '28. 19th Cki.. 3rd ST Regt, Fort Benning, Ga. Harray. Edward N., '43. Ensign. USNR. cyo Fleet P.O.. San Francisco. C^lif. 
Nacktwey. Botert A., Dr., '34. Capt. Army Offi­cers Medical Center. Washington. D. C. Nash, C David. '31. Lt. USNR. NTS, Fort Schuy­ler, Bronx, N. Y. Neir. Robert H.. '43, 2nd Lt, USMC, Quantico, Va. Nash, Charles B., Dr.. '32. Cbpt. U.S. Army Med. Corps, Lincoln, Nebr. Nolan. John F., e-x. '45. Pvt, Co. C, 505th llJP. Bn., Bks. 2018. Camp Breckenridge, Ky. 
Nolan. Ralph L.. '28, Lt . U.S. Army, FUght Con­trol Office, Air IVansport Command, San Rafael Calif. 
Nowak. Jaaeph S.. '34. Pvt. U.S. Army, Co. L, 12th QMTR, Camp Lee, Vs. 
CBriea, Jalm W., ex. '45, Pvt., Co. H, Fort Ben­jamin Harrison, Ind. 
O'Coanell Daniel J., '22, WO, CEC. USNR, N(7FC, E2-72, Officers Training Area, Williams­hnrg, Va. 
O'Comiell. Francis A.. '41, Ensign, USNR, Wright Field. Dayton, Ohio. O'CouwIL WilUaal JL, '43, Pfc, 3311th AST Unit, Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia. 
01>aaaell. James J.. '43. Cpl., Sq. 400-S, 608 TG, AAFTTC. S t Petersburg, Fla. O'Donnell. Bokn' F.. '26, AyS, Co. 1180, USNTS, Great Lakes, III. O'Learr. Charbs J., '43, U.S. Army, Reception Center, Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ind. O'Neill. Daniel J., ex. '45. Pvt. USMC. Fit S91. 
DRMCB, San Diego 41. Calif. O'Neill. J«kn J.. '43. In service. Oppenheim. Theadoce V., ex. '45, Pvt. Co. A. 
Barracks 5. Reception Center. Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ind. 
O'Reilly, Charles W.. '38, Sgt. 30Ist Fort Co., 518th Pom Bn., TCUTC, T-3-73, Indiantown Gap Mil. Res., Fa. 
O'Reilly. Jaaeph T., e.x.. '44, Pvt, Co. B, 60th Bn., 3rd Platoon, Camp Walters Texas. O'Boarfce. Stephen F.. ex. '43, Pvt. U.S. Army. Co. B7. Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ind. Owens. Edward F.. '36. Ensign. USNR. NTS, Boulder. Colo. Owcna, Geaise a , '32, L t (jg), USNR, Mare Is­land Navy Yard, Blare Island. Calif. 
PaDwTie. Lawrence S.. '36. In service—U.S. Navy. Pastetaadd. Jaaies F.. ex. '39. 48th Pnnnit Sqdn.. 14th Pursuit Group. Marsh Field. CaBf. 
Pattea. Pad £.. '42, A/C. USNAC Batt V. PU­toon IV. USN. FPS. Calif. Poly. Jr. (Tollege. San Luis Obispo^ Calif. 
Payne. Fiederidc J.. '42. Ensign. USNB. Peck, LMhr P.. ex. '42. Btry. A. 162nd FSeM Arty. Bn., St. Thomas, Virgin Islands. 
Fasemier. Edcmr A., ex. '44, Fvt., Co. A, 144th ASTB. 6th Reg. North Camp Hood. Texas. Fhilion, Rickmrd J., '40, A/C. USAAC. Pre-FIight Tms. Uaxwell Field, Ala. Ploair, John F .,'38. Ensiitn. USN'R. 23 Summer St, Newport, R. I. Poiiuatte. James A.. '43 Pvt., U.S. .A.rmy, C42­FARTC, Fort BraEs. N. C. Pawen, Richard J., '43, Pvt., Hq. Co., 1st Bn.. 
387th Inf.. APO 445. Camp S\vift, Texas. Prokop. JoHph H., '42, Ensign, USNR. PDrctil, James H., e-x. '43. A|C, Cochran Field. 
Uacon, Ga. Fjritz, Stanky W., '43. T/5. 48th Finance Dis­hursine Section, APO 4778, cjo P.M., New York City. 
Qainlan, Richard D., *28. In service — Keesler Field, Biloxi, Hiss. Qainn, Jaae* T., '27, Lt. (sg), USNR. Shoreham Hotel, WashiiiEton, D. C. 
Raincri SoKph G.. ex. '31. Lt. (is). USNR. Rcacan, James D., ex. '45, A|S, Co. 627. USNTS. Great Lakes, III. Reilly, Jahn A„ ex. '46, Prt.. Co. C. 1st Platoon, 31st Inf. TrnB. Bn., Camp Croft. S. C. Bice. James J„ '42, Pvt.. U.S. Army Air Corps, 33rd College Trng Det.. St. Vincent's Collece. Latrobe, Pa. Rice, Joseph G., '39 Ensign, USNR. United States Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, N. Y. Bic«, Willis H., '43, A.A. Bn., Fort Sheridan, HI. Bisney, Thomas J., '41, Ensign, USNR, NTS. Harvard U., Cambridge, Mass. Rsach, Daniel C , '42. 47Sth Service Sqdn.. AAB. F^ote, Texas. Bocen, Joseph F., '43, Pfc, 776 MP Bn.. Co. D, Camp Kilmer, N. J. Bwers. BAert M., '43, Ensign, USNR, Dart­mouth Colleee, Hanover, N. H. Batldein, Gerard J., '39, In service — Fort Schuy­ler, N. Y. BadteDiaw, Thomas F., '28. 1st Lt.. U.S. Army Air Corps. Byan, Francis J., '36, Ensign, USNR. Byan, WUIiam B., ex. '39, USNTS. Great Lakes. III. 
Sampson, Bev. Francis L., '37, Chaplain, U.S. Army, Fort Benning, Ga. 
Santos, Francis Anthony. '41, L t (jg), VF-33, USNR, c/o Fleet Post Office, San Francisco, Calif. 
Schiavone. Leo V., '32, 2nd Lt. U.S. Army, Hq.. 9th Service Command. Fort Douglas, Utah. Sehnahel. Jshn J., ex. '38. Btry. 3, 32nd Bn., 8th Regt., Field Arty., Fort Sill, Okla. 
SchDonSTer. Bohert J., ex. '44. Pi-t. Co. C. 60th Inf. Tmg. Bn., 4th Platoon, Camp Wolters, Texas. 
Sdhneter. Edward H.. '40, Ensign. ZP 12, NA9, Lakehurst, N. J. 
Schakert, Lawrence J., ex. '45 A/S, Bks. No. 3, 9th College Trng. Det., Waynesburg College, Waynesburg, Pa. 
Shakespeare, WilUaB V., '37, Pvt, Hq. Co., 70th Inf. Div., Camp Adair, Ore. Shccdy. Kenneth J.. '42. 2nd Lt, Reserve, U. of Buffalo School of Medicine, Buffalo, N. Y. Shidy, Vincent B.. '42. Cadet Quartermaster. 
Camp Lee, Va. Sinan. Bahert E., '43, Lt, USMC. Smith. Bernard F., '41, A/S. V-12(S), USNR, 
New York Medical College, New York CSty. Snuth. Bidurd M,, ex. '43, 2nd Lt, U.S. Army Air Force. Pampa Field, Texas. SsmiS, WHIiaB E., '41, Box 1389, 2nd Academic Sqdn., Keesler Field, Miss. Ssansski. Francis H., ex. '43. AjC, San Antonio. 
Texas. 

Sporl. Cyprian A.. '28. CBM. U.S. Coast Guard, 8th Naval District, New Orleans, La. Stefanadk. F. Joseph. Cpl. Hq. & Hq.. FARTC, Fort Sill, Okla. Steltmann. Charles C , '43, USNR. Stiens. Oren C . '43, Ensign, USNR, USS. Monti­cello, c/o Fleet P.O., New York City. Straticos. Georce S.. '43. U.S. Army, 443 lighter Sqdn., AAB, Richmond, Va. Strieker, Rohert H., '41, Pvt, Co. G, Bks. 402. HDETS O'Reilly General Hospital, Springfield, Mo. Stnrhitts. WilUam C . ex. '42, Lt , 334th Base Hdqs., A.B. Sqdn.. TS, AAFCTTC, Truax Army Air Field, Madison 7, Wis. Sturm, Qoentin C . '43, Ensign, USNR, ATB, Little Creek, Va. Sullivan, Joseph V.. ex. '46. FV-t., Troop M, Bks. 2457-T-Cav.RTC, Fort Rilcy, Kans. Soty, John A. J., ex. '47, A/S, Co. 811, USNTS, Great Lakes, III. Sweeney. Edward J., ex. '45. P^-t. 3rd Platoon. Co. A. 31st Inf. Trng. Bn.. Camp Croft S. C. 
Thomas. James C . ex. '46. Prt.. USMC, Platoon 373, RDHCB, San Diego, Calif. Tiedemann. Donald C . '41. Ensign. USNR, Naval Supply School, Soldiers Field, Boston, Mass. Tiemey. Paal F., '43, USNR, Amphibious School, Little Creek. Va. Tobin. 'John G.. '43. Midshipman, U.S. Naval Training Station, Abbott Hall, Chicago, III. Toland. Fan! R.. '43. Pvt., U.S. Army, CC 761 
M.P. Bn., APO 942, c/o P.M., Seattle, Wash. Toman. Richard D.. ex. '46, Pvt. 4th Pit, Co. D, 66th Bn., 14th Trng. Regt. Camp Fannin, Tex. Tracy Joseph A.. '43, Pfc, Base Weather Sqdn, Strother AAF, Winfield, Kans. 
TtilUns, Joseph H.. ex. '45, Pvt, Co. L, BIdg. T­711, 3rd Fin. Trng. Bn., Fort Benjamin Har­rison, Ind. 
TskilU. Steven J., ex. '44. Pvt, Co. H, Bks. 6, Reception Center, Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ind. Tnlly. Edward J., '28, L t (sg). First OfBoer — 
Merchant Marine Service TnpU. Richard D., '43, AERC. Tattle, Donald A., ex. '46. Pvt., Co. D, 60th Bn , 
4th Platoon, Camp Wolters, Texas. 

Van Paris. Richard A., ex. '45. Pvt., Co. B, 60th Bn., 4th Platoon, Camp Wolters, Texas. 
Vignos, Joseph P.. ex.. '46, S2/C, EE ft RM, NTS, 208 Cordell Hall, Oklahoma A. ft H. College, Stillwater, Okla. 
Vignss. Jr.. Paol J.. '41, Pvt, School of Medicine. Western Reserve U„ 2121 Abington Rd, Cleve­land, O. 
Viktoryn, John W.. Dr., '28, Capt, Robins Held, Warner Robins, Ga. 
Waldron. WilUam J., ex. '44. Pvt.. Btry. B. lOSrd 
Bn., Platoon 2, Fort McQuaide Calif. Walker, Francis X., '30, In service Wallach. John M., '37, Ensign. USNR, 775 Sixth 
Ave. San Francisco, Calif. 

Walsh. John E., '43, Pvt.. USAAF, 379th Base Hq., A.B. Sqdn., N.B.Tr.B., Miami Beadi. Fla. Ward. Rohert E.. '34, Pvt, Station Hospital Ward 
8, Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. WeUer. WillUa A., ex. '45, A/a V-6, USNB, Co. 1170, Bks. 902-N, USNTS, Great Lakes. HI. Welsh James B., '41, Ensign, USNR, c/o Sooth Pacific P.O, San Francisco, Calif. Whitins, Ralph S., ex. '45, Pvt, Co. B, 60th Tms. Bn, 4th Platoon, Camp Wolters, Tex. Wood Bernard P., '28, 1st Lt, 307 CABB Bn, Fort Custer, Mich. Woodward. Bohert H., ex. '47, P\-t, Co. D, B/C, Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. 
Zeller. Wayne D.. '43, In ser%-ice — U.S. Army. 
Zaber, John H., '31, L t (jg), USNR, Supply Corps, Hotel Wyndham, 42 W. 58th St., New York City. 
SECOND ANNUAL ALUMNI FUND 
(Continued from Pajre 12) 

1942 
Bergan, Pf e Joseph A. 2.00 Burkart, James A. 5.00 Cahill, Jones F. 
5.00 Clifford, L t John H. _ 
10.00 Cody, TTiomas P. 
5.00 5.00 

Degnan. Thomas F. '.— 
5.00 

Devine. Eugene J , Jr. ­
5.00 

Foster. William M. — 
Guthrie. John 
15.00 Hanifin, John F. 5.00 Harrington. Robert D. . 5.00 Heinlen, Lt. Jerome F. . 5.00 Kehoe. Robert L. 
5.00 1.00 

Malone John R. 
1.00 

McLoone. Pf e Edward A 
1.00 

Miller, Ensign Robert L. 
100.00 

O'Dqwd, L t (jg) Francis E. 
5.00 

O'Laughlin, L t James P. 
1.00 

Palmer, ErroII J. _ 
2.00 

Regan, William O. Reilly. Thomas J. 10.00 Roach. Cpl. Daniel O. 10.00 Roarke Thomas R. 3.00 Seuffert Joseph A 2.00 Sheedy. L t Kenneth J. -1.00 Shiely, Cadet Vincent R. . 3.00 Sturbitts, L t William C. ._. 10.00 Timel, Pvt. Robert F. 2.00 Whalen, Richard T. „ 5.00 
$ 234.00 

1943 
Callahan, Edward D. 5.00 Caroso, Fv t Louis J. — 10.00 Clarke Pf e William A. . 1.00 Cordes, Pf e Jerome F. _ 4.00 Diltz. Richard C. 2.00 Doutel, Ck>l. Frederick C. 5.00 Ensner, Ensign Stephen A. . 10.00 Fisher. Paul A. 5.00 Grady, Walter T. 5.00 Haekner, Robert B. 2.00 Herzog. Ensign William L. 5.00 Hath. George B. 2.00 Kotz. Donald B. 2.00 Liljestrom. William P. 10.00 Helton, Herbert S. 5.00 Nenno, Robert P. 3.75 O'Neill, John J. 2.00 Poinsatte, Pv t James A. 5.00 Roarke, Daniel J. 1.00 Tracey, John F. 5.00 Waeldner, William J. 10.00 Walsh, Pv t John N. _ 150.00 Webber, Anthony G. , 60.00 
t 299.75 

1944 
Lavery, Harry D. 5.00 HeSweeney, John R-2.00 Anonymous 2.00 Pons, Pvt Joseph P. S.OO Sullivan, Richard E. 2.00 
16.00 

1945 
Kopf. Pvt Milo R. _$ 1.00 
"Alumnus" Subscribers 
Boekley, T. F. 2.00 
N.D. Club of Rhode Island 
and S.K Massachusetts _ 200.00 IVacy. Gerald B. 10.00 
f 212.00 

 GRAND TOTAL -$7,530.75 
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Hiss Carol Lavon Barker and Richard Joseph Garafc. '39, South Bend. 
Miss. Marion Alice Cotter, Elmhurst N. Y., and Set. James J. O'Brien, Jr., '41, Elmhurst, N. Y, 
Miss Mardianne Benedict and Ensign Herrin 
F. Hasan, '42, Estherville, la. 
Miss Dorothy Fetter and Enslsn Theodore P. Freridn, '39, Wellston, O. 
Marriages 
The ALUHUS apcdotizes profoudlr for the tsrpoffraphical mix'op whidi, in tte Aacu t isiae. confused complefdy the Hur­rUce of Jim Kirbr >nd the nurriase of Enticn Jim SiddalL The annonneemcnts 
•hoald hare read as fi^wa: 
The marriase of Hiss Bbrsaret Mary Ellis and James H. Kithr* '3C, took place on Jane 4 in New York Citr. 
The marriage of Miss Bfary Ljnndi and Ensicn James J. Siddall, USNK, *36, took place on Jalr 10 at Freeport, L.I., N. T. 
The marriage of Hiss Ann Moysey of Pitts­bursh. and Corp. Peter J. Stefansick, *30. took place on July 25, in Gary, Ind. 
Hiss Edith Josephine Gallo and Thomas V. Wade, *33. were married on Sept. 4, in Netcong, 
N. J. 
Hiss Leonora Lindlay and Georce Sdiaefer* '33, ^vere married Aug. 14, in Cairo. III. 
The martial of Hiss Irene Taylor and Ernest Easene Maisimine, '34, took place on Aug. 31, in Magnolia, Ark. 
Hiss Audrey H. St. Raymond and Albert Vitter, *35, were married in New Orleans, on June 19. 
Hiss Ruth Virginia Paul and Robert CaTanangh, *36, were married on July 24, in Springfield, HI. 
The marriage of Hiss Elinor Barrett and Robert 
B. Divine. '36, took place on Oct 24, in Spring-dale, Conn. * 
Hiss Anne Westwood Williams and Lt. Edward 
A. Fox, *37, were married July 24, in Richmond. Va. 
Hiss Hary Shannon and Lt. George J. Nea­
•lann. '39, were married in Chicago, on Aug. 28. 
'Die marriage of Hiss Betty Jane Cloak and 2nd Lt. John C Finneran, '40. took place on Sept. 11, at Qoantico, Va. 
Tfie marriage of Hiss Lucille Pearl Wysock and Daaald E. Hosinihi, '40. took place on Aug. 8, in South Bend. 
Miss Charlotte Grant Cbngleton and Albert H. Kessing, *40. were married on Aug. 19, in Charles­ton, W. Va. 
The marriage of Hiss Jane Keegan and Bernard 
A. Teah, '40, took place on Aug. 11, at Xotre Dame. 
Hiss Amelia O'Dea and Ensign Francis J. H^ ­kins. *41. were married June 5 at Ft. Fierce, Fla. 
Miss Anna Karwowski and Ensign Edward J. Riska, '41, were married on Sept. 18. at Notre Dame. 
Miss Margaret Hary Scully and Sgt. Martin H. Shea, '41, were married in Youngstown. O., on June 12. 
Miss Patricia Waite and John F. Waldron, Jr., *41, were married Sept. 4. in South Bend. 
The marriage of Hiss Nathalie Podhajsld and Walter J. Cordes, '42, took place in Grand Rapids, Mich., on Sept. 7, 
The marriage of Hiss Hargaret C. Brennan and Lt. Leo M. Hamphrey, USMCR, *42, took place Sept. 11. in Quantico. Va. The ceremony was per­formed by Rev. Vincent P. Brennan. *32, and Robert J. Brennan, '40, was best man. Both are brothers of the bride. 
Miss Jayne Kelly and Lt. Robert L. Dnre, USMCR, '43, were married on Sept. 6 in Quan­tico, Va. 
The marriage of Hiss Harilyn Voors and Lt^ John E. Finigan, '43. took place on July 31, in Fort Wajme, Ind. 
Miss Betty Jeanne Rowe and Ensign Kichard 
J. O'Neill, USNR. '43. were married in South Bend on Aug. 11. 
Miss Edith Irene Sailor and George D. Powers, *44, were married on Sept. 11. in South Bend. 
Births 
A son, Peter Kevin, was bom to Hr. and Mrs. John Paul Collen, '22, of Elmhurst. 111., on July 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J. Hemphlinr, '26. an­nounce the birth of a son, on Aug. 24, in Sonth Bend. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Frank Leahy, '31. on Aug. 16. in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. NoD, Jr., '31. announce the birth of a daughter, on Aug. 4, in Indianap­olis. 
Lt. (jg) and Mrs. WiUiara G. J. Jones, '32. an­nounce the birth of a son, James Paul, on Jone 18. 
A son was bom to Lt. and Mrs. Doagbu J. Giorgio, '34, on Aug. 16. 
Hr. and Hrs. Ralph E. Sogers, '34, annonnce the arrival of a son, Allen Stephen, on April 17, in lama. Pern. 
On July 25, a son, Timothy Shane, was hem to Hr. and Hrs. Edward L. CHara, '35, in Roch­ester. N. Y. 
Capt. and Mrs. Jafai S. Clc^i—, Jr., '3C, ah-; noonce the birth of a son. John St. HI, oo Anff. 1, in Pasadena. Calif.' 
A son was bom to Dr. and Mrs. W. Janes Ife-Cralcy, '36, on Aug. 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. Fraacis T. MieCSairc, *37, announce the arrival of a dani^ter. Patricia Anne, in Lex­ington. Kj.t on July 16. 
A son, Danid Gregory, was recoitly bom to Hr. and Mrs. Harrcy G. Footer, '39. of New Tovfc City. 
Mr. and Mrs. Rarald Gnhaai, '41, announce the arrival of a daughter, on Aug. 15. in Miahawaka. 
A dau^ter, Catherine, was bom to Enaign and Hrs. Ward J, Ra€crty, '41. on July 13. 
Deaths 
The oldest graduate of the University, Everett 
G. Graves, B.S. *7<. died in his home in San An­tonio, Texas, on Sept. 5. Mr. Graves. 91 years old. is sorvived by his wife. Bom in San Antoniob he was also boried there. 
Mr. Graves was the son of the late Dr. Ralph Lewis Graves, one of the pioneer lAyadana of Bexar Coonty, Texas. He attended St. Maxy's Col­lege. San Antonio, before he came to Notre Damt, and upon leaving the University he becsne one of the earliest real estate dealors in his hoBW community. Student in civil enginemng and the winner of first prixe in machine drawing at h!a commenconent, Mr. Graves continned throng nmdi of his life to be associated with engineer-' ing, drawing and maps. ­
Distance kept Mr. Graves from modi of the close relati<Hidiip with the University whldi he otherwise would have had. He was none the IMB interested in the progress of the school on that account, contributed gmeronsly to meet her fiaan-
EVBBTT 6. (duvn, "76 
ctal needs and vras an inspirational figure among the alumni in his home community. He was a con­vert to the Catholic faith. 
Dr. Richard J. O'Gonncll, Chicago, a student at Notre Dame in the late *80s, died on Aug. 22. He had been a physician in Chicago for 40 years. Born in County Kilkenny, Ireland, Dr. O'Connell was graduated from Rush Medical College, Chica­go, after leaving Notre Dame. Surviving him are his wife, also a physician, and two sons and a daughter. 
James R. Fitzgibbon, '92, lifelong resident of Newark. O., and one of the most prominent and ]oyaI of centra] Ohio alumni, died on Sept. 15 as tlie result of a heart ailment. In ill health since 1941, he had been in critical condition only since Sept. 1. 
Mr, Fitzgibbon is survived by his wife and by three sons. Two of the sons were associated with him in the law firm of Fitzgibbon, Fitzgibbon and Fitzgitbon. 
Mr. Fitzgibbon was regarded by his associates as one of the best trial lawj-ers in the state. Early in his career he was elected and re-elected prosecutor of Licking County, O., and he was ^videly in demand as a public speaker all through his career. 
At Notre Dams Mr. Fitz^bbon was a mono­gram member of the football team of 1889 and a monogram member of the baseball team of 1892. He finished in law at Ohio State Universitj* in 1894. 

On May 14, 1942, the Notre Dame Club of Central Ohio honored the 50th aniversary of Mr. Fitzgibbon's graduation from Notre Dame ^vith a dinner in Columbus. He received monograms for both football and baseball, and a monogram blan­ket came from the University for him. Present were 175 of Mr. Fitzgibbon's friends from Co­lumbus and Newark. 
Among the honorary pallbearers at Mr. Fitz­gibbon's funeral were Judge Frank A. Bolton. '94, also of Newark, and Don M. Hamilton, *12, Co­lumbus. 
Daniel V. Casey, '95, Crawfords\-ille, Ind., an outstanding newspaper man in Chicago for many years, died in Crawfordsville on Sept. 12. "Work­ing for the "Chicago Record," Mr. Casey covered the Spanish-American War. Christopher C. Fitz­gerald, '94, of Havana, recalls that he met him there in 1S98. 
In later years Mr. Casey was editor of "Sys­tem" magazine. In 1909-10 he was vice-president of the Alumni Association. 
Mr. Casey, a guard, was a prominent football player at Notre Dame, serving as captain of the football team in his final year of competition. 
The "Alumnus" extends sympathy to Joseph 

M. Boland, '27, upon the death of his mother; to Lt. Off) -Nomum J. Hartzer, '29, upon the death of his mother; to Capt. Timothy Moynihan, USMC, ex. '30, upon the death of his-father; to Sfft. Howard A. Miller, '32, upon the death of his -wife: and to Paul C. Sdirantz, ex. '33, upon the death of his wife and infant child. 
Personals 
 Proctor, *04, Honser 
BsOdinr, Elkhart, Ind. 
19004)4 
Bibert E. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
OUTSTANDING CITIZEN 
Attorney Robert E. Proctor, '04, the keeper of bU section of the "Alumnus," was recently named as the outstanding citixen of Elkhart county, Ind., by the county Toiture of the 40 et 8. He received the organization's annual citizenship medal. Mr. Proctor was honored for his "unselfish and un­tiring efforts in civic affairs, for his bond sales promotion, and for serving as chairman of the district draft appeal board since its incep­tion, without recompense." 
1905-09 
BCT. Thomas E.  Bwke, C^.C^ 
'#7, N«tn Dame. Ind. 

Edgar Kobak, New York City, executive viee­president of the Blue Network, continues in that capacity with the recent sale of that chain by RCA to Edward J. Noble. 
In identifying Father Richard CoUentine, CS.C, '09, preacher at Father James W. Donahae's funeral, the August "Alumnus" spoke of him as the "former superior" of the Mission Band at Notre Dame. The "former" should have been eliminated: Father Collentine was then, and still is, the Mission Band superior. 
1913 Notre Dame, Ind. 
On Aug. 2 Father Alan Heiser, CS.C., cele­brated his silver jubilee Mass in St. Patrick's Church, South Bend. 
A native of South Bend. Father Heiser was or­dained in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, in 1918 by Bishop Noll of Fort Wayne.. He has taught both at St. Edward's, Austin, Texas, and at Notre Dame, and for the past several years has been chaplain for the Sisters of liOtcfto, Loretto, Ky. 
1916 
Grover Bliller, 616 WiuoBrin Ave* Racine, Wis. 
Grove BCUer sent on postcard reports from Tom HcLanffhlin and Bob Daly. Tom is still in Detroit, at 14254 Forrcr Ave., and has a son in the Air Corps. For several years past Tom has been manager of Martz Estates, Inc. Bob, 271 Kenforesh Dr.. Mt. Lebanon, Flttsburgb, Pa., is on the road a great deal in war work. He was looking forward to the Pitt-N.D. game on Sept. 25. 
 J. VsU, 26C E. Tutt St., Saath 

1917 B. 
Bend. bd. 

Draftie, one of the popular newspaper comic strips of the day, is authored hy Fanl FacsHr of Chicago. The strip runs in the "South Bend Tribune" and in many other papers. It is the story of the experience of an inductee in the Uncle's fighting forces. 
1918 John A. I/Cmmcr, 901 Like Skate Drin. Escanaka, Hidu 
Dick Dnnn, long a prominent citizen of Boston, has moved to Chicago to assume new and larger duties as director of public relations for the Lumbermens' Mutual Casualty Comitany and other insurance companies associated under the direction of James S. Kemper. Dick has been an 
executive and officer in the same organization for many years. 
iOOO ^"^ Aalw, 19 Dorkinr Road, Roch-I TZ Z cater, N. Y. 

From Kid Ashe: Father George B. Fischer, C.S.C., recently was re-appointed assistant director of the Holy Cross Mission Band^-eastem province, with headquar­ters in North Easton. Mass. 
All will regret Back Shaw's absence from col­legiate football this year. Santa Clara follows scores of other universities and colleges in aban­doning football. 
For a brief period it appeared not a single 1922 football coach would have a team on the field this fall, but Earl Walsh, ex-Fordham coach, has just signed with St. Ambrose Academy, Davenport, la. 
Jade Hiscins, of Wurzer and Higgins, attorneys and counsellors-at'law with ofHces at 1632 Buhl BIdg., Detroit, reports all 1922 Detroit men busy and happy. 
An unconfirmed report from good sources indi­cates that Engene Kennedy now holds rank of captain in the Army and is stationed at Fort Douglas, Salt Lake City. 
Jenr Dixon recently was host to Ray Keams of Terre Haute on the latter's visit to Chicago. 
Chet Wynne and Jerry Dixon, who have joint law offices, recently moved to a new location at 
39. S. La Salle St.. Chicago. 
My folks tell me I just moved from Hilton, N. Y., to Rochester, N. Y. My new address is above. 
Warrant Officer Daniel J. O'Connell, USNR, Holyoke, Mass., can be reached in care of the 93rd Battalion, c/o Fleet P.O., San Francisco. 
1925 
Jahn P. Hariejr, 2«g5 Bmokdak Road. Toledo, O. 
Chief Petty Officer Ed Hnnsincsr is the present head football coach at the University of South Carolina, taking over for his teammate at Notre Dame, Hex Enriiht, '26, who as a lieutenant, is now in charge of football at the Georsia Navy Pre-Flight School. Ed is also an instructor in South Carolina's Navy V-12 program. 
Lt. Cmdr. Jim Crowley's typical activities in the South Pacific are descrihed in Arthur Daley's column. Sports of the '"limes," in the "New York Hmes." Quoting a friend of his, who was quoting a friend of his, Mr. Daley wrote: 
"He ran into Jim several times during his stay in the islands and en route from there to Aus­tralia on a hospital ship. The commander is, to hear him tell it. just about the most popular fig-
PRESIDENT OF BAR 
Jalin F. Kilkenny, '25, Pendl»­ton. Ore., attorney, is the new president of the Oregon State Bar. John has been practicing law in Pendleton since his gradaation from Notre Dame. He has senred as city attorney of Pendleton; Tice-president of the Pendleton Chamber of Commerce; president of the Sixth Judicial Bar Associa­tion; and on the advisory board of the Oregon Republican Club. 

ure in that part of the world. He spends much of his rtime, his own time, too» visiting' the • bf ^ in hospitals and convalescent camps. 
"A visit from Jim with his endless fund of stories, football and otherf, is worth more than alt the medicines that have been shipped to the islands. As my youn? friend put it, *I can't begin to express what those visits from Jim Crowley have meant (o me and to the other wounded and sick. His presence alone is worth a couple of divisions of troops.' 
"Maybe the military leadsrs would rather have the extra divisions, but from what I've heard, I'm sure the men would rather have Crowley." 
1926 victor F. Lemmer. Box €61, Ironwood. Mich. 
Vic Lemmer, in continuing his news-digging process among the '26 clan, wrote to Jim Glynn. Tino Poggiiini, John Griffin. Father,Keith Roche and Mike Reddington in early September but only Jim crashed through with a reply. He is produc­tion manager for the Anchor Hocking Glass Corp., Lancaster, O., having moved to Lancaster from Terre Haute, Ind., 12 years ago. Jim says that, with the shortage of tin and the consequent big push in glass for containers, he is more than busy. 
Vic himself noted that Walt Trohan, of the Washington staff of the "Chicago Tribune," has been writing many Sunday features for the Trib. One of the latest, on Aug. 29, had to do with the life and times of Harry Hopkins. 
New *26 men in the military: John O'Donnell. Maysville, Ky., and John Ryan. Pittsburgh. Ibe Kentucky John is in the Navy, and you can reach him in Co. 1180, USNTS, Great Lakes, III. The Pennsy John is a captain in the Army's Corps of Engineers, but for the present you'd better write to him in care of his home, 448 Marlin Drive, Mt. Lebanon, Kttsburgh 16, Fa. ^Vhen he re­ported in Chicago on Sept. 7 he was uncertain as to his future military address. 
John O'D. has, as you recall, been an important part of the daily "Ledger" in Maysville for a good many years. John R. has been with the For­est Lumber Company since he was grraduated, lately as assistant treasurer. 
Vic had a grand letter from Lt. Jay R. Maien­ich. U^R , Sheldon Hotel. Lexington Ave. at 49th St., New York City. Jay spent many years with the South Bend Lathe Works, in cdvertising, publications and promotions, and so fits ideally into his present work with the Navy: he's in the machine tool division of the eastern procurement district office at 67 Broad St., N.Y.C., and works especially with plane manufacturers. Jay is just a block from the Stock Exchange where our freshman president. Bob Cahil]. is a member. 
There was word lately in the Alumni Office from Frank X. "Dnke" Slater, who is a buyer for Pratt & "Whitney Aircraft in East Hartford, Conn,, and resides at 8 Walnut St, Rockville, Conn. Frank is going down to the Army game in 
N.Y.C. with his wife, oldest boy (13 years old) and two guests. 
Which is a reminder that Armstrong, '25, and Dodey. along with J. Arthur Haley, the Univer­sity's director of public relations, all have sons (eldest child in each case) who are freshmen this year in South Bend's Central Catholic High School, taught by the C.S.C. Brothers. Total score to date: Armstrong, five boys; Dooley, one boy, three girls; Haley, three boys, one girl. 
There is welcome news that Ward I-cahy, for many years with the New York Central-Michigan Central organization, is now assistant superin­tendent for the N.Y.C. in Chicago. 
Dan O'Neill sent a flash on the birth of Capt. Jerry Hayem' fourth son, Michael, on Aug. '12. That makes five total for Jerry and Florence. At the latest report, Jerry was still in North Africa. Bernie Win^erter's brother. Jack. '28. who is with the O^VI overseas, saw him there in Septem­ber. In fact. Jack took the word of Hike's birth from New Jersey to Pop Hayes. 
Assisting Lt. Rex Enright as heed coach of the Navy Pre-Flight School at Athens, Ga., are B»­sign Andy Pilney. 'S6. and Ensign Bill Ken; *40. 
A quick review of the Alumni Office military records indicates that the following of '26 are in service: Bud Barr, Frank Bon. Leo CantwcD. Frank Crowley, George Dolmage, Rex Enri^t. Chnck Gainon. 'Jerry Hayes. Irving Harwid^ Worden Kane, Jay Masentch. Maurice McEUisatt. John O'Donnell. Tino Poggiani. John ^an , Jae Shea. Tom Sheridan and Jim Stadc. There are doubtless some others. Will some one notify the local headquarters accordingly? 
1927 
Joseph M. Boland, Station WGN, 
N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, OL 

From Joe Boland: Your reporter doesn't know where to begin with this issue — to come down to earth is a bit hard after four weeks of wild commuting between Chi­cago and South Bend. As you note, the masthead is changed. 
Eddie McLaughlin, the prominent attorney of the Loop; Jerry Le Strange, now in Chicago for the 
/'Southern Agriculturist," — any number of as­sorted N.D. men of various years, shapes and sizes — all checked in here . . . but the story is one of those that'll have to wait for a reunion; it's too long and involved. I would like to thank a lot of folks who've written, and who may read this . . . for the most of this, I think Joe Reedy** letter from England .. . or such excerpts of it Mr. Dooley can squeeze into limited space; de­serves what white space we have here. 
Vincc McNally, now handling the Army physical training program at Georgetown University — having switched from football coaching at Villa-nova, — suffered the loss of his mother by death recently. May we ask your prayers.? 
Larry Mf>ore, father of six. now heads the employee ser\'ice departments at Western Electric's Hawthorne (Chicago) plants. 
BOLAND TO CHICAGO 

Joe Boland, '27, cl»u secretary, has become a sports announcer for station WGN, Chicaffo, after a highly successful term as speaal announcer for WSBT, South Bend. 
Joe was president of the St. Jo­seph Valley Notre Dame Club for 1943-44. To honor hsm, the club sponsored a dinner in the Indiana Club, South Bend, on Sept. 30, which was attended by 125 of Joe's friends — alumni and non-alumni. Walter Langford, Tice­president, and now president, of the duh, presented him with a traveling bag as a farewell gift. 
Four Notre Dame football games are on Joe's fall schedule 
of WGN announcing. 
. After I find oat whidi way the Elevated runs here, and find someone to lead me around the Loop by the hand for a week or two more. 111 have a Chicago dieck-up for you in the next issue. 
As usual, there's probably a lot we've missed: bear with us, friends, and we'll have your letter(a) here, if and when they reach me at the new loca­tion. 
From Capt. Jaacph P. Beedy in England to Jet Balaiid: 
"Gee! is it raining — one of those driving cold rains that diills a fellow to the bone. Tlie wind Is howling and whipping the rain around like an egg beater. I^s like a Hollywood version of a tropical rainstorm. Everything is thoroughly soaked and droopinff — Gee! Am I glad Vm inside in this nice dry Headquarters! 
"Have been here for a bit over a month. Saw the inunortal Spike MrAdais before I left New York. We met as of a Sunday momins on the way to dinrch. . . . We dedded to look up Tliifcip O'Haia after Mass, and to our delis^t and the taxi company's disgost. we were at Ifass at his parish. 
"Spike was taking conunand of a new amphibi­an ship. I was leaving with an Air Force task group. .. . Spike explained with gestures how he'd like to have the Bishc^ bless his boat .(lead­ing with the proverbial left and crossing in a timely manner). 
"It was good meeting and we learned three or four other N.D. lads had been in — i s imifc«tt>, the same day — none for money, strangely. The Bishop looks and acts the same as he did when he used to outguess us about when we were at Com­munion hist and still looks like he is just ready to say, 'let's go fishing.' It was a consolation to see him before we left the States. 
"Have had lots of adventures since and have enjoyed it all — the good with the bad — and can truthfully say I haven't had one minute of £s ­content. Corby Sub was a palace to some of the quarters we hit — but we had good lads and we really enjoyed it. ^ 
"We'll go on from here and undoubtedly have lots of good adventure ahead — hope I can send on some of them to yoa — I'm a bit more carious now than I was when Rack once said to me, 'Beedy. aren't yoa even curious what those guards are hiding T . . ." 
Joe's address: Capt. Jos. P. Reedy, A.C.. 11th P.E.. AJ».0.—516, cfo PJI, New York, N. Y. 
Joe Dicnhart^ athletic director and head coach at St. Joseph's College. Bensselaer, Ind., throng several remarkably successful seasons; has joined the coaching staff and physical education depart­ment at Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind. With a depleted enrollment, St. Joseph's was forced to give op varsity athletics for the daratioa ot the war. Undefeated in 21 games, the college's foot­ball team under Joe's direction was co-champion of the Indiana Conference for the past two sea­sons. 
Lt. Ji« Qains is now on naval assignment in Washington. D. C. rending at the Shoreham Hotel, after an exciting tour of duty in convoy work on the Atlantic 
Comes word from the Pacific that CaHta Te* vamw National Oty, Calif., heads one of the most important ship-bailding companies on the West Coast. Concrete ships are his company's 
specialty, 
*As this is written, northern Indiana is waitins for the official appointment and confiirmation of 
Lather H. "Hike** Swyffert. Hammond attorney, as federal judge for the northern Indiana district. He has been endorsed for the post by Senator Frederick Van Nuys of Indi -na to succeed Judsre Thomas W. Slick, resigned. Tlie 3S-year-old Mike has been assistant U. S. attorney in the district for the past eight years, handling successfully a ^reat many cases in the Hammond, South Bend and Fort Wayne branches of the court. 
1928 
Louis F. Buckley, 4481 MacArthur Blvd., Washincton, D. C 
From Loo Bnckley: 
Thanks to Cyp Spoil. C.B.M. and Art Slavin for their response to my nniuest for news. Cyp has been in the U.S. Coast Guard since April. 1941, and writes from the Sth Navrl District, New-Orleans. He reports that he visited Dick Qninlan several months ago when Dick was stationed at Kessler Field, Biloxi. Miss. Cyp also saw Rnbe MomBcn some time ago when Rube was endeavor­ing to enlist in the Naval Intelligence. Jules de la Vergne keeps in good shape by frequently visiting the Athletic Club, according to C>-p. Another class­mate from New Orleans, Bolan Bnrkc. is with his father in the insurance business. 
Art SUvin wrote from 6635 N. Elm Tree Rd., Milwaukee. He is senior horticulturist with the 
U.S. Department of Agriculture, Soil Conserv-ation Service, Division of Nurseries. His job takes him over eight states from Ohio to Nebraska and from Missouri north to the Canadian line; he works with 10 state experiment stations. He is primarily concerned with investigational work in economic plants useful in conservation agriculture. Art was married in 1933 to his Senior Ball date. He men­tioned that the last he heard from Johnny Stewart he was with AP or UP ser\'ice in Washington. Art has kept in contact with Johnny McMahon, who, as you know, is in Pittsburgh. 
Bill Jones reports that while in Akron. O., re­cently he spent an evening with Art Gleason and his family on their farm outside of Akron. Art has four children. He is with Goodrich and is working in connection wnth life raft materials. He mentioned that John Herbert, who is married. lives in Boston where he is district manager of a candle company. 
Lt. (jr) Terry Donahue is executive ofTicer of the naval training unit at St. Ambrose College. Davenport, la. 
IN 156 AIR RAIDS 
Throvch 15fi air raids in 70 days, eieht of them direct homb attacks on his own riup, oune Lt. Ed TiOly, *28. of the United Statci Mcrdumt Harine, accordine to his own atory in tiie ''Lowell Son** of July 2 wbm IK was at his home in Lowell on a 3t-dar leaTC. Ed joined the Merchant Bla­rine in 1940 as an able-bodied seaman. Since then he's been to Murmansk, Blada-Cascar, ledand, Ireland. Singapore, Sai-S*B« Aden and Edinburgh, not to mention CasaUanca, Capetown. Sydney and Suez. It's hardly necessary to add that he's led an czcitinff life, especially since Dec 7, 194L 
Ed wwked for an eastern Massachusetts 
•ptical CMnpany after hu rraduation from Notre DaaM:^ then joined up with the mar­itiae acnrioe for his first "stretch.^* He was a reporter for the "Lowell Sun" be­fore he rejoined the service in 1940. 
Capt. Joseph P. BIcNaauua, 1S14 N. 
Coart Hanae Rd., Arlinvtan, Va. 
1929 
Latest address for Major Ihomas J. Qaaltcn. former bodyguard to President Roosevelt: Hdqrs. Forces. APO 560, c/o P.M.. N.Y.C. 
Lt. Cmdr. John T Burks is executive officer of the Na\-y Section Base, East Boston, Mass. 

CScorge N. Beamer, chairman of the Public Ser­vice Commission of Indiana, has office headquar­ters in 401 State House. Indianapolis, and resides at 4559 Carrollton Ave. in the same city. 
1930 
Harold E. Duke, 4030 N. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

From Harold Doke: Recently talked to Tom Lawler and made a date to have lunch with him. He is with the Harris­burg Machinery Co. in Philadelphia. Nora LUUc was with the same firm until recently, but is now a lieutenant in the Na\-y. Tom said. Just as soon as I can spend a little time with Tom, I hope to have more news for the column. 
Tom Medland, Logansport, Ind., came through with a masterpiece of a letter for this issue, and I'm most grateful to him. Since June, 1942, Tom has been associated in a civilian engineering ca­pacity with the new Naval Air Station just south of nearby Peru, Ind., first in construction, then in design and maintenance. 
Tom writes of the men of many classes. inchxU ing even his own two future N.D.ers of about '56 and *59. Here are some excerpts from his letter: 
"Through the years, the *Aiumnus* news be­comes increasingly important and interesting and letters like Tim Toomey's help to awaken memo­ries and renew acquaintances, long gone but not forgotten. , . . 
"Midiael Fansler, Indiana Supreme Court judge, put:> in frequent appearances in the old home town of Logansport. Lt. Cmdr. J. H. KiHpler, who spent several months at this station as executive officer, was recently transferred to the Pacific. Andy Toth, the South Bend fiash who started in Architecture in *25 and finished at Cornell, Is onr chief architect here, and my brother, Ed, an ar­chitectural freshman in *25. is chief engineer with the contractor at this station. 
"Jim Dican. *29, the radiator czar, is producing defense items for our favorite uncle at his radia­tor factory in Logansirart. Henry Halsey, '29. the Fort Wayne attorney, was re-elected state deputy of the Knights of Columbus recently. As grand knight of Logansport Council, I expect to see him often this year. Emmett Ferriuon, *30, the Lafay­ette, Ind.. judge, was the speaker at a Logansport banquet during the past year. Larry O'OauMr* *30. is managing Sears* Elmhurst, III., store and setting new sales records continuously. Bob Holmes, '30, drops down from South Bend to handle telephone matters here quite frequently. 
"Didc Landrrave, of Peru, a pre-law freshman in '27. has just left here after a year as head timekeeper for the contractor. William 'Bad* Kaai­merer, who took pre-med in '27 and '28, is now a veteran medic, operating in Australia at the mo­ment as a first lieutenant in the Army. Had a recent letter from my old sidekick. Jerry Paifcer, *30. Hie American Airlines advertising exec is now a first lieutenant in the Army IVansport Command on the West Coast. Jerry recently lost his brother Howard, a really outstanding N.D. alumnus. 
"Harold *Bnd' Taberty, *31, gets bigger and richer each day in his Logansport law office. In addition to his business. Harold keeps quite active in civic and political affairs. Paal Bottv *31, is an executive with the Gossard Co.. in Loganqwrt and past grand knight of the K. of C.'s. Lea Hendridu, *32, is well occupied with his printing business, K. of C , and civic activities. Richard lIaU«ac^ '34. another past grand knight of the 
K. of C , continues a successful legal practice. Hy cousin, Charlie MAlland, '38, is a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy, and at last r^orts was an instructor at Princeton University. 
''Eddie Alberts, a freshman in *31, is in the Navy on foreign duty. Charles Brown, '36. the Indianapolis architect, worked with me here last year, joined the Navy and completed his midship­men's course on the N.D. campus. I have no news of his present location. George Beltemacdii, '36. left Logansport to acquire an Illinois architect's license. He has remained there except for the past year, which he ^ent doing engineering work on an Army camp in the West. Fenton Hee, *40, is now a captain in the Marines. After participa­tion in the in\-asion of Africa, he returned to X>ogansport on furlough a few months ago and related many interesting experiences. No informa­tion available on his present location." 
Capt. <Dr.) John D. Preece, M.C., AJV.F.. of Battle Creek. Nehr., was, at the latest report, in the station hospital of the Army base at St. Petersburg, Fla. At the same latest report, Frank 
J. Armbnuter was also a captain in the Army's medical corps but he was operating out of 20237 Emerald Ave., Chicago Heights, HI. Ist Lt. John 
S. Flinn was with the 175th Station Hospital, APO 877. c/o P.M., Miami. Fla. 
1931 
John Bcmn, 838 E. Colfax Arc, Soatfa Bend, Ind. 
Ed O'Oea. Terre Haute, Ind., is (was) with the 566th HPEG Co., Fort Custer, Mich. Joe Baineri. Hurley, Wis., was, on Aug. 26, commissioned a lieutenant, junior grrade, in the naval reserve and, at the latest report, was awaiting call to active duty. Joe, who finished in law at Minnesota fol­lowing his term at Notre Dame, was when he was commissioned serving his fourth term as dis­trict attorney of Iron County, Mich. He was also president of the Notre Dame CInb of the Goeehic Bange, and is the father of two sons. 
Jahn Carran. A.B. '31, M.A. '36, is now on active duty with the armed farces according to a recent note. John taught for 12 years in various Catholic schools, then was on the staff of Florida Military Academy, St. Petersburg, Fla. In the past 15 years he has published 25 short stories, two plays, one novel and six poems. 
 James K. CoDina, 1135 Handieitcr 1932 Lt 
Ave., NorfaDc Va. 

From Jim Collins: 
Capt. Ckarlie Nash of the Army Medical Corps writes from Lincoln, Nehr.. that he has been in the service for 14 months. He was at Madison most of last year, and was sent to the School of Aviation Medicine at Randolph Field, "rexas, last January. Be is now attached to the Heavy Bomber Gronp as flight surgeon. 
Charlie said the first N.D. man he had run into was PhU Dmleavy who is a warrant officer in the Jodge Advocate General's office at the Lincoln Air Base. Charlie's wife is maintaining the home at 8134 Chappel Ave., Chicago, and he suggests any mail be sent to him there as he is practically oonmnting between Lincoln and El Paso, l^xas. 
I was very happy to run into L t (J.g.) Ed Mdiren at the Officers' Club here a few weeks ago. He is the assistant planninj: officer at the Norfolk Navy Yard in Portamonth, Va. He took his indoctrination at Phoenix and was sent bere from there. He is moving his family here and 
win be living at 220 E. 3«h St., Norfolk, by the time yon read this. 
Lt. Pete Streb* after some hard sessions in Camp Davis. N. C, and Fort Eostis, Va., is back fight­ing the Battle of Boston vdth the anti-aircraft battery. He is living at Charleston. 
I met Eniign Bill Cokman, '42, at lunch recent­ly. He has been in the Navy only a few wedcs, and is attached to the Supply Corps, Building 143, NOB Norfolk. 
Joe Siemer, Teutopolis. III., former states at­torney of Effingham County, HI., was, on July 25, Sgt, Joseph B. Siemer, Room 730, 458 S. Spring St., Los Angeles, Calif., according to word from the home precincts. Joe is connected with the provost marshal's office. Joe Lewis, formerly an assistant U.S. attorney for the northern district of Illinois, has become associated with the law firm of Lord, Bissell & Kadyk. 135 S. La Salle St., Chicago. 
Address for Lt. (jg) William G. J. Jones: Armed Guard Center, 52 E. 1st Ave., Brooklyn, 
N. Y. Bill is the father of a new son, James Paul, born June 18. His home address is 489 Glide St.. Rochester. N. Y. 
1933 
Tiihe Woods, 7944 Ellis Ave.. Chicago. in. 
Addresses: Lt. Cmdr. WiUiam M. Hawkes. Aircraft Experimental Sadn., Naval Air Station, Fatuxent River, Hd.; Ensign Joseph H. Chardi­man. Armed Guard Center. 52nd St. and 1st Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
John F. Cary, with the 370th Med. Bn. at Camp Adair, Ore., was on Aug. 3, promoted from captain to major. John has been at Camp Adair since completing a special course at the medical field service school, Carlisle, Va., on April 30. 
1934 
Joseph R. Glennon. Jr.. Brook Bfanor, Pleasantville, N. Y. 
From Joe Glennon: The other day I ran into Lt. Leo Cronan in Grand Central Station. He was on his way to Boca Ghica, Fla.. Naval Air Facility (highest point — three feet above sea level). He mentioned that he has run across quite a number of Notre Dame coaches who are connected with the Naval Air Ser\*ice. He flew up to a meeting in northern Florida and. out of 20 athletic directors, 11 of them were ex-Notre Dame coaches. He said he would like to hear from you fellows, and it gets pretty lonely down in this spot, 12 miles east of Key West. 
An article in the September "Industrial Market­ing" features Bob Hamilton's Dumore Cbmpany's advertising to distributors. Bob, who is vice-president in charge of sales, inaugurated a cam­paign to correct practices and bad habits of the industrial supply distributors. It was a bold step, but one that needed to be taken, and it has worked out more than satisfactorily. 
It was sad to hear of the deaths of John Dobln­sky. Lt. Patridc X. Flaherty and Lt. Vincent J. Jasinild. The sincerest sympathy of our class go to their families. 
I am looking forward to seeing many of you at the Army-Notre Dame game. 
Bob Caliill, erstwhile conductor of this division of the "Alumnus." is in the South Pacific and has seen Lt. Jack McGrath there. Ilie South Sea Is­lander, it could be added, wouldn't be hurt at hearing from youse guys even though you can no longer ask him for four on the fifty. His ad­dress: Lt. (jg> R. M. CaUU, USNS, c/o CouAir-SoPac, Fleet P.O., San Frandseo. . . . Mrs. Cahlll is now in the Athletic Office (Notre Dame—not South Sea) trying to finish up last year's ticket sales. 
Frt. Bob Ward had. in mid-September, been in the station hospital. Fort Benjamin Harrison, Jnd.. since July 7 on account of "various minor ailments," to quote him. He had been sent to that post to attend finance school. 
Address for Capt. Edward J. Batler* formerly of the Bell Telephone Co.,'Wilmington, Del.: 812 Signal Port Service Co., APO 464, c/o PJC., N.Y.C. 
Lt. (jg) Tom Stritcii, former English teacher in the University, is, according to all the best indications, right in the middle of things in the European operations. In the Amphibious Force, and a skipper in the LCTs for 15 months, Tom recently ran smack into one of his former stu­dents, Ensign Pan! Kashmer, '43, so Paul reported in a recent note to the campus. Teacher and pupil were speechless for a minute. 
1935 
Frnddya C Bockrtlter, 341 Bwefcle AT*., St. Levis. MB, 
Writes Lt Pat Fisher, APO 4166-D, San Fran­cisco, in sending in a generous contribution: "I've seen a few Notre Dame men out this way in the past few weeks. Among them were Bob CaUlL '34, and John McAlpine, *37. from Chicago. Biatk Falgoqst, '27. from down in Louisiana, is with me." 
Address: Ist Lt. RobeH C. Maker, M.C.. 23rd Field Hospital, Camp White. Ore. Bob, his father writes from Leechburg, Pa., received his M.D. from George Washington University, Washington. 
D. C, and. after serving an internship, practiced medicine in the state of Washington until he joined the Army Medical Corps in September. 1942. He was married in September, 1941, to Betty Fay Downey. Seattle. Wash-
Lt. (js) Geonce T. Demetrio was to report on Aug. 31 for training at Quonset Point, R. L, and expected to be sent back to the Glenview Air Station, near Chicago, for active duty. George had been with the Palmer House. Chicago, ever since 1935. rising in recent years to be an as­sistant manager. At this "crossroads of the world" he had met. and often materially aided, innumer­able Notre Dame people. 
The grim and terrifying experiences of Corp. Joe Bucci. '35. Amsterdam. N. Y.. of the Marines, were the subject of a long, illustrated feature article by Burris Jenkins, Jr., in the "New York Journal American" of Aug. 5. Joe. home on leave after participating in many of the most gruelling actions in the Southwest Pacific, was a member of the first raider battalion, turned out at Qnan­tico, Va. He had enlisted in the Marines soon after Pearl Harbor and had volunteered for raider training. 
1936 
Joseph F. lUnsfield, 34 Fifth St.. PeUuiii, N. Y. 
From Joe Mansfield: The mailman called at our house four or five times with letters containing news of the *36ers. They will be passed on to you in abbreviated form in keeping with the "space conservation prosram." 
We heard from Irwin Goldawn just too late to include his contribution in the last edition. At the time of his writing. Bud was at Camp Barke­ley. Texas. He was staff sergeant, attached to that post temporarily. Like all the men in service, he would like to get mail from members of the class. 
Too can expect m letter tnm me oaa ofthtM days. Bod. Hen's his addnss: Fhtooa 4, OBI. Q, XAC-OCS, Caiqo Barkely, Texas. 
Lanr Pakaiic, one of the mmre laitUid am­tribators to the cohmm. mote that he is now im the Navy. I intend to write liim shortly. 
Jsha Hanii. Lt. (j.K.), had hmdi with me a few weeks ago. jiist before he took off for~a i needed lIMays furloa^ He said that Shttb Henick can be reached at Group B-H. Lion 3, N.O.B.. Camp Allen. 
John had received a letter from 1st Lt. Fiaak "Dae" Harray. USA. HC , ASN01(9237I. APO 
643. c^o Postmaster. Miami. Doe is a fii^t sur­geon attached to the Sooth Atlantic Wins and had been staticmed in Brazil for several mtrntha. Ba reported that he had bnmped into another NJ>. man in Brazil, Capt. Wajmaai ntifciaM, who was at school from '36 to '38. 
Jae HacDeaaM is with Standard Garment Co.. 1350 Broadway, N.T.C. John was an usher at Jt e Kiihy'a wedding on June 6 at Blessed Sacrament Chnrdi hen in New York. Ihe bride was iha for­mer Peggy Ellis, llie newlyweds are now livins 
. at 741 Seward Av e Detroit, where Jim is serving with the FBI. Bak Cavaaaagk sent along s not* which announced his marriage to Both 'VinjiAi Paul at Springfield. IlL,' on July 24. Bob is stfll with the FNC in Chicago. 
John also had a card from Lt. Jim Mdlevitt. Jim can be readied at HQ Div. APO 85, c/o Post-, master, Los Angeles. Jerry GiUripie was recently commissioned an ensign in the Naval Beserve. He received his training at Fort Schuyler, N. Y., and was transferred to Boston for Armed Guard duty. 
Leora Brown. PaaTs wife, sent along a letter which told that Paul had left Hihbing: Minn., for service in the Navy. He was stationed at ^cson. Ariz., and had recently been commisrioned an en-, sign. He can (could) be reached at the University of Arizona. Mrs. Brown said that Paal Cammtaga is at Ckmp Wheeler. Ga. Bis address is 3I3886«5. Co. D., «th Tmg. Bn.. 4th Platoon. Jim Dattmi has enlisted in the Coast Gnard but his present ad­dress isn't known. Vrmmk Ryaa, another Hihting boy, is also an ensign, stationed in Detroit. Many thanks, Leora, for passing along that information. 
I'm still working for NBC as produetioh Erec­tor. I get around the country quite a bit but usually in and out of a town so fast I dim't get much chance to look up any of the '3C«s while I'm there. Iliis fall I expect to see a few NJ>. games starting with the Pittsburgh game on Sept. 25. I produce and direct the Bill Stem Collegiate show, and we'll be on the road for most of the season. Between Fridays. I handle semal other shows here in New York and dash out of town for special assignments. 
Drop me a card and I'll pass it < to the rest of the class. 
William Shakespean has joined the Army and is at Camp Adair, Ore. The address: 32990979. Ha Co., 70th Inf. Div. Private Bill was asked fay the camp papsr as to his greatest thrill in footbalL You're ri^t : his pass to Millner that won the *35 Ohio State game. 
Lt. Jae Snllivan (promoted last spring). riUo Detadiment, Amarillo Army Air Field, Am­arillo, Texa^ sends the following welcome news notes along with his contribution; 
"I have been located hen since the first of May of this year as commander of the detachment. We a n located at the new Army field and'anry­one seems to get along with the Army Air Fbree officers. Major C. S. Bagcrty. Notn Dame '25, is 
in charge of the laboratory at the base hospital. He is the only Notre I>ame alumnus I have run across in this part of the country. 
"I expect to get some leave the latter part of October and plan to see the Notre Dame-Navy football game at Cleveland, also the Notre Dame-Army game at New York. On the way East I hope to be able to spend some time at Notre Dame. 
"Easter Sunday at the Commodore Hotel bar in New York City I spent some time with Ensign Don Elser, '36, who was located at the Naval Training Station, Fort Schuyler, Ensign Mike Fox, '34, and 2nd Lt. Tom Murphy, '36, of Newport. 
R. I., who was in the city from Sj-racuse. where he is with the Quartermaster Corps at the Army Air Base." 
Jack Robinson, at Camp Knox, Ky.. training in the armored forces, will this year for the first time in 16 years miss seeing or playing in an Army-Notre Dame game. 
Address: Cspt. John S. Glcason, Jr.. 0-398999. Hdqtrs. APO 33. c/o P.M.. San Francisco. John, who is kept more than busy in ordnance work, has yet to see his new son, John S. Ill, born Aug< 1, in Pasadena, Calif. 
 Foley. 910 Hawthorne Road, 1937 Pmol 
GtMse Pointe, Blidi. 
Father Charles Carey sends word to the Alumni Office that Gene Ling is not in service as that usually reliable organ, the Notre Dame "Alum­nus," erroneously reported some time back. 
Address: 1st Lt. Joseph F. Hoctor, Co. C, 872nd AjB Engineers Bn., APO 929, c/o P.M.» San Francisco. 
1938 
Hai«Id A. Williams, 4323 Alarfalehall 
U. , Baltimore. Md. 
From Hal Williams: 
The lead this month belongs to Charlie Callahan, now in the Army and sen-ing as staff reporter for the Peterson Field, Colorado Springs, Colo., "Wingspread." Charlie recently sent us a copy of his paper and a letter that cox'ered just about everything in the class. Because of our new space restrictions, it vriU be impossible to quote all of both, but I trust Bill Dooley will forgive me this much: Charlie writes a signed sports column and in it I find this gem, "Being a non-lover of calis­thenics and an advocator of competitive athletics for everybody else. . . ." Callahan, in the past five years, has run into practically everyone in the class — meeting them in such places as club cars, locker rooms, back bars. Grand Central Station. South Bend, and the Bronx. Most of Callahan's reports are somewhat stale: Examples: "I met Bob Hadcman at the N.Y.U. basketball game year before last and he was then in Army, Na\'y or Marines. . . . Bill Arnold -was with the Grace Lines when I saw him at the Commodore bar three years ago the night Queens-Chicora College upset South Dakota State School of Mines. . . . After seeing a dame to her Westchester bus one night, a year ago last spring, was walking down a street in the Bronx and bumped into Hugh O'DonncU. Said. 'Hello, Hughie/ He said. 'Hughie, stuff. Call me doctor.' He had just graduated from med school that morning. , . ." 
Thanks, anyway. Scoop, for the fine letter. I had a very nice note from John Donnelly. He is now director of student accounts at the TJniver­aty. * . . Bumped into Dr. Roy Scfaolz, *35, "who is doing researdi at the Johns Hopkins Hospital here in Baltimore. . . . Eddie AIatting}>-'s father ^vrites that Ed is now a second lieutenant in the Transportation Corps and is overseas "some place off the Pacific Coast." . . . 
Word seeps through that Chuck Beasley has seen quite a bit of action in the South Pacific and is one of the heroes. . . . Will try to get more dope for the next issue. . . . Note from Scrswit Dan Qninlan. 385th Bomb Squadron <D), 8111th Bomb Group (D), Waycross, Ga. Dan is still sinsle and is now serving as an airplane me<^anic. . > > Joe Messidc writes that he has been fighting the battle of Fort Knox, ^. , for nearly two years. He is a master sergeant and his address is: "HQ. 350th Ord. Bn. He is single but engaged to Mus Ruth E. HoU of Media, Pa. . . . He has seen Charley Hurley down there. . . . 
Received a letter from Don Hidcey on July 13, just a day too late for the August issue. . . . He states that John Plonff has a commission in the Navy Supply Corps. . . . Jack Hj-nes and Jack Moulder are rearing families in the Bend, and Charlie Duke is in airway traffic control in Chica­go. . . . Don is stationed at Fort Schuyler, New York—61. N.Y.—Co. 54, Comp. A-li. Billet 200. . . . Other *38 boys with him are Jerry Rellilein, Charlie Mctzgcr, Joe Knharidh, Jacic Ward, Fred Carideo and Ir\* Gardner. . . . Don EUser was there and left. .. . Thanks. Don. and sorry I had to cut so much, but that's orders. . . . 
And that's all. Hope to see a lot of you fellows at the Army-N.D. game and in the '38 corner of the Fenn Hotel bar. Until then. .. . 
The parents of Pfc Ambrose Rice, ex. '38, of the Marine Corps, killed in action on Guadalcanal, have been notified in South Bend that they are to receive the purple heart medal awarded pos^ humously to their son. 
Sgt. Chuck O'Reilly sent greeting to the TTni­versity in late August. His address: 36675648, 301st Port Co. of the 5181h Port Bn., TCUTC, T 3-73, Indiantown Gap Mil. Res., Penna-

Another address: Major James H. Lahey, TJS­MC, Headquarters of U.S. Marine Corps, Division of Plans and Policies, Washington, D. C. 
From somewhere in the South Pacific came this recent story by a Marine Corps combat corre­spondent : 
"The ability to think and act fast saved Capt. Joseph William Mchiing, Jr., of 1631 Cherry St.. Huntington, Ind., from serious injury in a recent Japanese daylight air raid. Three members of Capt. Mehring*s party were injured in the raid. 
"It caught the 27-year-old captain in a small boat in the bay with a party of five. To mal^ matters worse, the coxswain had just run the boat on an unseen reef when the Jap planes appeared. 
"The entire party hugged the bottom of the small boat as four strafing planes passed over without hitting them. Then they thought they were clear and got to their feet. The coxswain broke the boat clear of the r^ f and was hacking off when a fifth Jap plane dove at the boat with machine guns blazing. 
"'Over the side!' ordered CapL, Mehring, and immediately obeyed his own order. So did one other member of the party, but the other three chose to try their luck at the bottom of the boat again. All three were hit by Jap bullets. 
"None of the injuries proved fatal, however." 

(Ed's note: Hal Williams missed the August, 1943, issue through no fault of his: we lost his copy here. 'Scuse, please.) 
1939 
Viacent W, DcConrsey, 1321 GMisia, Kanias City, Kans. 

From Vince DeConrsey: Another month of not much news. The bojrs must be getting pretty well scattered by this time. hard to find, and too busy to hear from — or even about. 
Letter received just yesterday from Bob Hoar, first we have heard since his leaving Montgomery Ward in Chicago. It is now Ensign R. J. Hoar, USNR, 1509 Runnymede Road, Norfolk (8), Va. Will be there till going to Harvard in November. Wife and baby are with him. It's Capt. Jack Mc-Anliffe now, according to Bob, private to captain in 20 months. Jack is in the Coast Artillery at Camp Pendleton. Calif. Lnlce Lacroix, when. seen, was expecting to go overseas, and has not been seen since, so probably went. Frank Reppenhagen, ensign, USCG. is temporarily stationed near Nor­folk. Ted Frericks was navigating officer on a carrier. About others. Bob says: Jim Dnnn is still nmning his dad's factory at Rockford, 111. Jack Wheeler had received a commission and was await­ing orders. 
Ijetter from Dick Anton announcing the birth of a new son. He's (Dick) still battling for workers at Oliver in South Bend, address 623 West Wash­ington St. 
Two phone calls, but unable to see either visitor to our fair city. First, Paul Oakes, lieutenant in Adjutant General Office, stationed in Florida. He brought the following news, supplemented by more from Tom Reardon, with whom he had lunch (Tom, incidentally, now the father of three, two boys, one girl). Verfaoeven, after leaving M.I.T. went to, and presumably is still with, Martin at Baltimore in their engineering department. Dick Brchm is in the Army somewhere in the Midwest, was married recently- Tom Ziegler was in OCS in Miami, but probably has graduated by this time. 
Last call was from Bob Perry, who was with us in old St. Ed's a long time ago. He's a flying ser­geant, ferrying planes in the ATC. Was just pass­ing through en route to St. Louis; stationed in Burbank. 
Charles H. McCabc, Cleveland Heights, was re­cently commissioned a second lieutenant in the Army Air Forces at Turner Field, Albany. Ga. 
Sgt. Mario ToncUi, a captive of the Japs in the Philippines, is in excellent health, according to a card which his parents in Chicago recently re­ceived from him. 
1940 
Robert G. Sanford. 3934 N. Maryland Ave.. Milwaukee, Wis. 

From Bob Sanford: 
BiQ Doolcy writes. "How about it, chum ? Where are you ?" Sanford answers, "Here I am at Camp Lee. Va." That disappearing correspond­ent of yours is back. Having finished the QM OCS on July 30, 1943, and remaining at C^mp Jjee, I have been going to school a little more and am now -working with a basic company in the QM Repl. Tng. Cen. My address is above. 
The article is supposed to be held down and my collection of news is slight, so I will wait till next month for you men to help me out now that I am back in circulation. 
Have a letter which I received back in May from Tom Shields. Ha was stationed at Stuttgart, Ark., and was rooming with Norm Anderson. Tom's address at that time was S/Sgt Tom W. Shields, AAF-AFS Sqd. XV, Stuttgart, Ark. 
Bob Voclker wrote a few months ago, after just returning from Alaska, and said, *'Bob Sduaid was attending a Signal Corps School in Philadelphia. Frank O'Lanchlin roomed with Bob up in Alaska, but left for OCS. Francis Ernst was stationed at Fort Meade, Md., with an APO ad­dress." 
Ed McLanslilin was married way back in June. He married the girl we all met back at school. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 27 
Marion Delaney. Ensisn Paul Mead Morrison was some time ago transferred to the Fitzsimmons General Hospital* Denver. Ward 5, Room 3030. 
A note from Mrs. Golden says that Phil Golden is now a lieutenant (j.gr-) and in the South Pa­cific. His present address: Bombing Squadron 3, Fleet P.O.. San Francisco. Pvt. Gene Sdinmaker, *43, is now at Camp Lee, but I haven't been able to contact him as yet. He is in a basic company and his present address is Co. H., 6th QM Tng. Regi., T-256. 
Received a swell letter from Capt Joe Molqueen of the Marines and would like to be able to have all of it published, but at least I will pick out the highlights as follows: 
•Tve been in the South Pacific area for some time now. Spent five months in [censored] and vicinity before coming to the cocoa nut-studded island. 
'"Ran into Marty Regan about two weeks fcefore leaving [censored] . . . he's a full lieutenant in the Navy and is fifth officer in seniority aboard his ship. Marty participated in the initial battles for the Solomon Island group and has many inter­esting stories to tell. 
"Bob Hackman, '3S, is in the snme company 

•with
 me . . . division signal company and a cap­tain. . . . Frank Miltncr stopped writing me quite a while ago. . . . Capt. Giorge Haggsrty is a communication officer in one of the regiments of this division. . . . Capt. Johnny Scott. *38, of South Bend, is R-3 for one of our regiments . . . 

•we
 came over on the same boat. 


"Bumped into Jim Conner], *41, on board ship in this area. . . . He's an ensign and has been in several exciting engagements in the Solomons area . . . ran into Ensign Emmett Lcnihan. '41. and Capt, Paul Lenihan at [censored] and they're both helping to make the news from this area too. . . Ensign Vin Hartnett, '37, and Bob Osterman, '41. are two more N. D. men I met .in [censored.] 
"Lt. (j.g.) John Martin is a communication of­ficer aboard one of the ships in this area, so I am told, but haven't seen him as yet. 
"Lt. Fred Finocane, USMCR, was aboard ship with me and is still just as good a comedian as ever. Ray Allen said he was forced to write me the other day to congratulate me on the birth of my second halfback who arrived on May 15. He's still in Battle Creek, going strong as the junior partner in the law firm of which his late father was a member. Says that Tom Browning is run­ning his father's coal business. 
"Phil Canale's letter that appeared in the June issue of the 'Alumnus' was very interesting and newsy. His mentioning the use of his steel helmet for a wash basin is typical of .-Vmerlcan forces in the field all right. This morning when I got up I discovered the evidence of a field rat having visited my canvas basin, evidently in search of a bath. 
"Life on a South Pacific Island isn't bad though. Such fruit as papayas, limes, oranges, durians, and bananas are as plentiful as corn in Iowa. The quick-moving and multitudinous lizards, the silver-dollar sized spiders and the bats with the 12-inch wing spread that fly atop the cocoa-nut trees nightly only add to the atmosphere al­ready created by its lava-lava wearing inhabi­tants. All this, together with the nightly movies and the wonderful opportunities for daily swim­ming, all add up to that part of this life that prevents complete monotony. Contrary to all I'd heard, the weather here is so pleasant that neither California nor Florida could compete with it." 
"Sgt. Jack Reddy likes the Army Air Corps very much . . . while back in California Peggy and I ran into Joe Ryan and his wife, Jane. . . he is an instructor at Taft Field. . . . Boh Shea, *41, is a first lieutenant in the Army Air Corps and is a ground officer at one of the airfields in Ari­zona . . . incidentally, ray address is: Sig, Oo.» 3rd Mar. Hiv./cjo Fleet P.O., San Francisco . . . hope we will all make that 1945 reunion." 
I hope so too, Joe. I have done a terrible job for the last few months, but I promise to do bet­ter. So please send me some news, fellows. 
At OCS I ran into Bill Hoainski, '43. Ha and I talked over old times till he received his commis­sion and went to San Antonio and further Air Corps assignments. 
By way of a Marine Corps combat correspon­dent, in a story distributed l y the Associated Press, come details of the heroic exploits of Capt. Doug Bangert off Guadalcannl in mid-November, 1942. For his work on the occasion Doug received the Distinguished Flying Cross. 
When he retirrned to the Pacific Coast in late July, after 10% months in the South Pacific, Doug wcs quoted cs follows: 
"It was a battbship of the Kongo class, and it had l:een crippled in the big naval battle off Guadalcanal the night before," he said. "We caught up with it about dawn but prior to our attack, when we were about 10 minutes off Hen­derson Field, a half dozen Zeros attempted an in­terception. My tail gunner downed one of them, but not before our plane had been shot up pretty badly, and our turret gunner slightly wounded. 
"However, we continued our mission through the heavy flak thrown up by the battleship and accompanying destroyers, but when I leveled off for the run in I discovered my bomb bay had been so shot up I couldn't unload the torpedo. 
"Flying on over the battle-wagon, we returned to the airfield. After leading another plane* we flew tack for a second run. This time the heavy warship had slowed up until it was nearly a 'dead' target. You couldn't miss it—just laying down there—and I sent the 'fish' in for a confirmed hit. We learned later that the Japs had to scuttle the ship." 
Another hero of South Pacific combat is Tan Philpott, who now. as a ccptain, is assigned to the Marine Staff and Command School at Quanti­co, Va., for three months of special learning. Tom some time ago received from Rear Admiral T. S. Wilkinson, deputy commander of the South Pa­cific Area, special commendation with the follow­ing citation: 
"For bravery and devotion to duty under ad­verse conditions while in action against the ene­my in the British Solomon Islands from August 7, 1942, to August 9. 1942. Sen-ing with the Asast­ant Division Manager as Intelligence Officer. 
25 BOMBING MISSIONS 

Winner of the Distingnislied Flying Cross, the Air Medal and three oak leaf clusters, 1st. Lt. Joseph P. Carr» ex. '40, of the Army Air Corps was recently back home in Gary, Ind. on leave^ the veteran of 25 bombing mission* over Germany and Hitler-occupied countries. His thrills and narrow escapes were recounted in an ex­cellent feature article in the "Gary Post-Tribune" of Sept. 8. 
Lieutenant Phillpott performed his duties with honor and sldll and In supplying his coounander with intelligence data contribated greatly to the success of the operations. His conduct was in keeping with the highest traditions of the United States Naval Service." 
Added to the Major John Hcnchry score: one Jap cargo which he sank in mid-August with his B-25 bomber off the New Guinea coast after mak­ing a direct hit. 
Enstcn B«fc Haeffatctter is on the staff of the commander of the Fleet Air West Co:ist and feels very happy about his assignment. His address: Comm. Office^ CFWC. NAS, San Diego, Calif. 
With a generous financial contribution, Jba Donochae sent these items on July 6 from the South Pacific: "Joe Zncrcher, (Lt. USMC), came in from the States a few days ago. E4 KIrfcr, '37, is still the Advocate General's assistant for our area. Major Cby Hem y is exuberantly happy over his new rank. Hm. O'LaagUxn is a gas ex­pert now. Herrd also from Bad Bernard in a Navy unit near here." 
From Znd Lt. Ed Huff, AGD, assistant adjutant general at the headquarters of the 11th airborne division. Camp Mackall, N. C. came other word, also with a financial contribution. Says £d ; "One of the sergeants here in the finance section is Dan Sanivan, '38, Ulysses, Eans. We did have too, in our ranks Ed SnlUran, brother of J«e» I'm told, who was discharged afc disability be­fore I discovered he was a member of the 11th 
A.B. . . . Fellows like Dong Bancert and Jaka fifeancy are doing a great job, according to the 'Alumnus/ and so are others like Miatts TeedU whose names have not come in on the ticker in 
"I don't get around much to writing Bob San­ford, but I should like to say hello to him throng this medium, and pass on my good wishes to the entire class. .. . I met Ed Baddaer's mother and siters again recently when business took me into the Maxton-X^aurinburg air base. Ed is on govern­ment business near Panama. His home is in Laurinburg. . . . 
"I saw Father Dojremas in New Orleans in the spring, and returning to my station had a severe motor accident that might have closed oat a fighting career, but the gloves are on again and the chips are red, white and blue." 
1941 
Set. Jaha W. Pattaraaa. Jr.. 553t Dar­linctaa B ^ PlttsWrgli, Pa. 
Your old friend and secretary, Sgt. Fat Patter­son, was represented in the "Pittsburgh Press" of Aug. 26 by an elegant letter written to Kaspar Honahan, dramatic editor. (Pat used to work on ­the "Press," you know). And what the Sarge didn't say about movie actresses who travel U> North Africa, do their stuff far &om the battle zone, then come home to reap the publidtr har­vest as though they'd been right up in slit trenches -^— well, it wasn't too complimentary. 
. Gcorse ZeU^r has been promoted to first lieu­tenant at Hunter Field. Savannah. Ga., where he is base mess officer and assisting proper^ officer. George was commissioned on July 15, 1942, after entering the Army in May, 1941. 
Addresses: Pf c Edward L. Colhsrt, 31025811, 471st Engineers Maint. Co., AFO 644, cjo PJI.. N.Y.G.: Set. Williaai V. McLccse, 37005*^04, 1032 Signal Cb.. Ser. Gp. APO 528. c/o PJC. N.Y.C.: StU RonaM P. Kejcat, 35328176, 337th Bomb Sqd. (H) 96th Bomb Group (H>. AFO 634, cjo PJ«„ N.Y.C,; Lt- (jg) FKinds A. Santcs. VF-33, c/o Fleet P.O., San Francisco; Capt. Jaarpli P. SsMcra, 0-1011434, Hq. 3rd Bn., 40th Armored Reg.. APO 257, Fort Benning, Ga. 
28 
1942 Pvt. William E. Scanlon, Public Rela­tions Office, Ft. Sheridan. IlL 
From Scoop Scanlon: 
Clobe-trottinsr Frank Gibson, SFE. geU the lead-off spot in the class of M2 columns for October. He writes: 
"In the April issue of the 'Alumnus,* which I have now read about five times, I noticed an ar­ticle in which you told of the thrill of hearing the Victory March played at Fort Sheridan. Here's a suggestion. More than likely many N.D. lads have heard the Victory March played since they left the campus. You started the ball rolling — let me pick it up by telling my experience and then someone else take it from there: 
"While stationed in Bermuda, I had my first occasion to hear its strains. I was standing on the docks and an Army band was serenading a group aboard a troop ship. After playing many popular songs, they swung into the Victory March. I sure felt proud. Weeks later I was in [censored] North Africa and amid the clatter of knives and forks and the eating of chow, a Na\'y band played it again. Many stopped eating and attempted to prove to their neighbors that they, too, knew the words to our song. I also stopped eating — a rare thing for me — looked at my spam and forsook it to sing. The third time I heard it, I was at an advance air base and a French band played it. The big question now in my mind is: 'Can the Italians play it?' I'll give you that answer later — I hope. 
"I wonder who heard it in the Solomons — in Australia — in England." 
Fine idea, Hoot take the ball from there, willya someone? 
From the Marine base at Camp Pendleton, Oceanside, Calif., Lt. And}* Chlebeck (recently en­gaged to one of the St. Mary's belles, Joan Metz­ger) writes: 
"Just a word from Camp Pendleton to say 1 was just promoted to assistant athletic director. . . . We have so many N,D. fellows here such as Clipper Smith, Joe Beinor, Jack Che\igmy, Jim O'Toote, BbNanura, etc., we could bold a Notre Dame Nigbt. I'm still playing baseball and we have a real club out here. Ted Lyons is now pitching for us. We beat a couple double A ball clubs in this Pacific Coast league. I*m having a good year with that stick, hitting .400 up to Sept. 
2. My address: Pendleton 12 AAI, Oceanside, C&Iif." 
Comes again Mrs. Lora Lashbrook, Dean Clar­ence Bbnion's faithful chronicleer: 
"Only this morning (Sept. 10) we had a letter from Lt. Robert Sinon of the USMC in which he said he bumped into a three-months-old copy of the 'Alumnus* which reminded him to write. Bob is currently helping to train 1,200 Negro Marines in South Carolina. 1st Lt. John Verdonk of the Provost Marshal's department in Georgia visited us while on leave. His wife accompanied him as far as St. Mary's. Not long ago Bob Richardson, of FBI via Philadelphia, was over for a visit. &Man Jim Mcfi<ddrick is now stationed in an industrial center in Indiana. 
"Al Bums is in the Army Air Corps. Occasion­ally we hear that Jtwdan Hamel has visited in the suburbs of South Bend but we have no official ver­ification of this fact. Rocco Hontegna has finished his Army training in Texas but wc do not know where be is. 
"BID Bboney was in Michigan with the FBI. Jerry 01>owd recently went out to sea. Dick 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Swisher in California is dividing his time between a law practice and a sheep ranch. He was recently admitted to practice law in California.. 
"John Ward wrote last from Salt Lake City near where be was still training. Mrs. Ward was living in Salt Lake City to assume responsibili^ for his conduct when absent from the military reser\*ation. John Spcca and Ed Fortcn have not written for so long we are threatening to penalize them for neglect. One of the Chicago boys said £d was in the Army but we can't confirm it. John was reported rejected for military service and is believed practicing law in Wisconsin but surely that state's mail service could bring more tangi­ble evidence, if approached. 
"A few weeks ago, Alex Tsiolis wrote from the mountains of North Africa, then followed with a V-mail letter from Sicily, and we expect the next to be from Rome. Alex has an interesting assign­ment in the AMGOT and reported that he had five Sicilian cities to set up governments in and for when he wrote from there. Any soldier who is unfortunate enough to be stationed in one of these towns under Lt. Tsiolis' command should immedi­ately engage counsel, for his training in occupa­tional government has been complete and included a basis in MP work. 
"Ensign Paul Kashmer was last heard from in North Africa, on the west coast. Army Air Cadet Steve Qninn called at Notre Dame the first week of September while en route from Texas to New York to recover from an appendectomy. Pvt. War­ren Deahl is at Camp Hood, Texas. Ensign Mervin Bagan, who has been stationed in Bermuda and points south, has a wedding date planned soon, it is reported. Ensign Cecil Jordan, married in July, has reported at Norfolk, Va. 
'*Joe Lavery is at Camp Sibert, Ala., and our information comes ^'ia Mrs, Lavery and son in Denver. We are displaying a nice photograph of the father and son who enjoyed a visit together in June. Lt. Joe Barr of the tJSMC sent a V-mail recently via the Fleet P.O. at San Francisco. Jim Daner is assistant prosecutor for his home county in Michigan. Dick Fogarty is employed by a local insurance company and is still a bachelor. Lt. Bill Hosinski is at the air base at Albuquenioe. 
N. Mex., and was home on leave recently. 
"Tim Maher is soon to be commissioned in the Army and is stationed at Fort Benning. Ga. Harry Mprra>-, Chicago, spent a week here in August.** 
Ed Drake, from that confusing community of 
IN 25 AERIAL BATTLES 
When Capt. John B. Maas^ Jr., ex. '42, of the Marines returned to Grosse Pointe, Mich, to be mar­ried on Aug. 28 to Miss Natalie McNiemey, he had since the pre­vious October, when his engage­ment was announced, (ought in 25 aerial battles in the South Pacific, shot down four enemy planes, won the Distinguished Flying Cross, crashed at sea and shared his cig­arettes with Solomon Islanders who wore necklaces of Japanese teeth. 
. John was a flying companion of Joe Foss, one of the country's foremost aces of the current war. 

Philadelphia, N. Y., long-distanced from Chicago to Fort Sheridan while passing through en route to Boise, Idaho. He had just received his Army second lieutenant's commission as a navigator at Houston, Texas. He had run into Bob Houlihan some time back but heard he was at Pensacola, Fta. Bill Rice of Pittsburgh and the class of *43, happened along at a dance at Fort Sheridan's Service Club. Rice, w-ho reported for the Post football team to try to spell tackle like he did for Alumni Hall, is with an anti-aircraft battalion here. 
Tom Cod>* was visiting Fort Sheridan recently and I met him on the North Shore train. He was training as a meteorologist at the University of Chicago but was aiming at an Army lieutenant's commission. Just before the All-Star game in Chi­cago, Bob Lonergan, still one of Arch Ward's aides for the "Tribune," and I went to a practice fof Harry Stohldrefaer's charges and Steve Jnz­wik had Stuhldreher excited in field goal practice with a boot — he was the first one to do it — that split the uprights from the 40-yard-line. What a kick! Despite that exhibition in practice, Steve didn't get into the game but he played a whale of a game for Great Lakes against Fort Riley later. Against Fort Riley he faced one of his old team­mates, Capt. Benny Sheridan. 
Bill Hnber. starting All-Star left end. was at the drill. So was Ray Ebli. Ray said he had been home at Ironwood, Mich., but expected a Navy call any time. Walt Ziemba was there. He's been released from the Marines on account of his bad leg and is now combining coaching and office work in the Athletic Association at N. D. Lou Rymkns was also released by the Marines, on ac­count of a bad arm. 
Corwin CUtt, Angclo BcrtcUi, Frank Szymanski, Creishton Milkr, CammiUe Piccone were other 
N.D. men around with the Stars at one time or another. And Steve Bsgams of our class got a furlough for the Redskins and his pass-catching ability was demonstrated again. Steve is in the Army at Camp Haan, Calif. 
Lt. C«L Raymond J. KeUy is now located at Fort Bliss. Texas, having been transferred some time ago from Fort Sheridan. 
S«t. Fan! Neville, sUU at Dover, Del., with a Fighter Squadron, said he had heard from Emmett Keenan. overseas with this address: "Hdq. Co., 745th Tank Bn. (M). APO 4725, New York. 
N. Y." Neville also b^r d from Joe Lane, via Fort Pierce, Fla.. and heard that Jim Duggan is doing some kind of intelligence work in Spring­field, Mass. 
Ensign Joe Lane (Boat Camp 2, Amphib. Tr. Base, Fort Pierce, Fla.) describes his training there: "Florida in September is still the Mecca for mosquitoes and sand flies. Over the week-end we had a ship-to-shore and took quite a beating. The surf tossed nine of our boats high and dry on the beach and it took us a full night and day to get them back off. I was on a salvage boat and at times there were waves 25 feet high washing over the open boat, one of which knocked the cowling off the engine and nearly sunk the boat, but the Lord kept us upright and we survived. Now I know how it must have been for those soldiers and sailors trying to land at North Africa and Sicily." 
Here comes a report from Ensign Tom Kenedy (USNR. Holworthy W-1. NTS, Harvard, Cam­bridge, Mass.): "What good is a Notre Dame ad­dress book these days without a time-table of events and changes? That's only one of the minor reasons why it's good to receive the 'Alumnus.* Fighting the war from the communication school at NTS, Harvard, isn't the most interesting as­signment, but it seems to be a crossroad for lots of us. When I came up here last May, the first 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 29 
person I bumped into was Jim Asmath. He was finishing a graduate course in business adminis­tration. He returned on the first of September as an ensign in the supply corps. . . . Ensisns Jeri7 Killigrew and Fred Hoover have been here eight months now in the advanced supply school. I ran into Ensign Ed Emmeneger at church last month. He had just come up then to the supply school v.'ith Ensign Otto MolUdor. Of course. Otto brought his wife with him. Lt. (jg) Charlie Deger was there but left in March and is now the supply officer for a group of FT boats — in the Caribbean, I guess. 
"The Radar school at M.I.T. has two M2ers: Andy Gorka and Bob Heil. Saw Bob in church too. Both are busy pulling apart electrons for a get-together. Have heard from John Boelscher. He is designing a crash-proof plane for Bell Air­craft in Buffalo. Another engineer, who is now proud papa, is Bud Crowley. Baby daughter bom May 12 is a blue-eyed blonde. And Dick Heckman wrote me saying he was commissioned lieutenant in the Army June 5 and was married June 10. He and Elsie are lost in Brooklyn. Dick tells me John Stanbcr, who finished V-7 at N.D., is sta­tioned on the west coast. Has he seen Doug Mac­Donald? 
"Three fcHov.-s who have been here at the com­munications school are Ensigns Jack Garvey, who left in May and is now convoying in the South Atlantic, Al Perrine, '41, who was regimental commander as well as head of his class, and none other than Lt. John Fitzgerald, of cos­mology and metaphysics renown. His letters are as interesting as his evenings in the ca£ were. Ensign Bill Keys is here too. Bernie Mar­bach and Joe Shecdy nre in the olive drab for the duration of their med school. Bernie is at Colum­bia P. and S. and Joe is at the University of Buffalo. 
"Two fellows who didn't get the breaks are Fred Paulmann and Rces Hughes. Both received medical discharges from the service. Fred was in Virginia studying — no less — Japanese. Rees, in the blues, wr.s working hard at the University of Chicago. AVeH, I expect to be leaving here in late October." 
P'iiie v-'ork, Tom •— keep us posted. 

Another of the class of *42, who has been in the thick of action is Jim H:tckner. He took part in the invasion of Sicily bright and early on the morning of July 10 when 3,000 ships participated. He is still on duty in the Mediterranean, on a LCT. His address: Navy No. 93, Flot. 9. LCT. 43n. cyo Fleet P.O.. N.Y.C. 
Stsvie Pavels writes — he's one of the latest 

N.D. men to enter the ser\'ice. His address: Co. 593-43. Camp Scott. U.S. Naval Training Station. Farragut, Idaho. He writes that he's been learn­ing all about tying knots, signaling, aircraft recognition and eating — tenns. 
George UhU the engineer, reports in again from Indianapolis: 
"'Don't know if. I told you about our Notre Dame club bantiuct or not. I met Mike Carr and Frank Fox of our class and we all had a great time. Fox was about rezdy to leave for the Army. Tried to meet Bart Crowley in Cincinnati when I was there on Labor Day. but he wasn't around. I've orderad tickets for the Iowa-Pre-Flight game. Has anyone heard of the whereabouts of John Donnelly, the old roomie?" 
Donnelly, it's time you wrote George. 
My "boss" of our time. Lt. Joe Petritz, '32, \-;rote on Sept. 3 from the Armed Guard Center, New Orleans, that he meets some alumni every four or five days. Al DelZoppo recently returned from his first trip as an armed guard commander. 
Joe reports, and is also stationed at New Orleans. Joe, who was athletic officer at the Armed Guard Center for about a month, is out to sea by now. 
That's all for now. Remember: 
IF ITS NEWS, WRITE SCOOP. 

Bob Harrington is with the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics. Langley Field. Hamp­ton. Va. Jim Rash is at the AAF Navigation School, San Marcos. Texas, for training in ad­vanced aerial navigation. 
Corrected address for Ensign Jim Ford: Navy 
122. Box 11 (Canal Zone), cjo Fleet P.O« San Francisco. Bob Daffy, Monro?, Mich., is a Ma­rine flyer, commissioned a second lieutenant at Con»us Christi, Texas, on July 28. 
1st Lt. Mike Hines, of the U.S. Marines, had landed in Londonderry, Northern Ireland, at the latest report, and was one of the key members of the American Shore Patrol which was charged with keeping the Londonderry air clear and mus­ical. 
Ensign Charlis Ne!con*s mother writes from Plymouth. Ind.. that Charlie, having been com­missioned at Columbia in N.Y.C. on March 31, 1943, is now on active duty in the North Africa area. Frank O'Dowd has fccen promoted to lieu­tenant (jg) and is now operating in the Pacific He was homa to Chicago on leave in August. 
Sgt. Bob Coleman, lS2nd Prov, M.P. Det.. APO 4707, c/o P.M., N.Y.C, writes from North Africa, where he has been for quite a spell now, having passed a chance at OCS to go overseas. He was expecting to see Larry Aubrey, who was nearby. When Bob was in Long Beach, Calif., he saw a lot of Ensijn Johnny Stanber. Bill Coleman* ex. '40, Bob's brother, left his business to join the Navy and, at the latest report,. was with the Bure.-tu of Supplies and Accounts in Washington. 
1943 
Ensicn Edward C Rmey, 172S Ii Are.. Detroit, Mich. 
From Ed Rcncy: 
By the looks of things, this edition will consist mostly of plagiarism and a lot of good old scut­tlebutt. A few men took my appeal to heart and wrote me what they knew. But there are a great many more of you who could and are falling down on the job. We can't keep our great class together if everyone doesn't pitch in. So, again, let's hear from all of you. 
From Red Loncrgan: 
"I am working for Ardi Ward in the "Chi Trib" rnd enjoying it plenty. I see Bob Kai^cn quits a lit ; he is v.-orking for Braniff Airways and is doing well. Jim Ford is now in uniform at Northwestern Med School. Ed Ryan is also in Hed but over at Loyola. While visiting Ed I ran into Sal Lapilas who is also shaking up test tubes. Kcv O'Tcole called up on his way through from Quantico where he was just made a second lieu­tenant in the Marines, and is now stationed at Occanside. Cclif. He claims he saw very little of Lt. Harry Wright after leaving Parris Island bat that Lt. Wally McNamara is doing great things. 
"Danny Uolwcll is at Harvard in the Quarter­masters school and has been living with Ensicn J. Durbin and Ensi::n Don Miller. Durbin left for San Diego a short time ago. A letter from Dare Condon says that Bob LeMense is in a Texas' camp with him. Gloria Randolph, Sunny's sister, just wrote and said he is in the Army Air Corps in Tennessee. A card just came from Ed Callilian who is at the Na\-y Pre-Flight school in Middle­
. town. Conn. 
**Saarfcy B— a has called several times but we haven't gotten together yet; he is now at De ftai] 
U. Aceordins to Snarky, Mae Mfflain is now in the Pacific. Vince €—•!• • wrote from Eovt Knox, Ky., claiming that Bekd Lanah— is still as chipper as ever, hot that Dip^y Eraas eaold use a few letters as he's down in the damps with not enough excitement. . ­
"Went down to AU-star practice and had dwrt chats with EbK, Picciai, Jaxwifc, and 7%tm%m Creishten HiUer left doe to illness, so I mTisrt him. Was up in Saginaw last week-end and found Leo Keatinc is in the service." {See McGawaa's letter telow, Red.1 
Thanks. Red. How about another. Toa're in a perfect place to pick up news. 
I'm very proud of this next letter as it's tram a gCKid friend of mine, one who promised to write soon and did, and my first from overseas, whidt proves it can be done. Reporting from North Africa is Ensign Pete Horitx: 
"We hnd a good trip over as the sea yras ex­tremely calm. "Die only others from N.D. on my ship were Ensisns Levis Karta and Fiaak CMM­
•ns, '42. After reaching port we met the r^nun­t!er of the gang. Not two hours after stepping on sljore for our first liberty, Comins, Kartz, and I ran into Ensign Hank Kane, ^ank has been over here since finishing Tower HalL H« nen^ tinned having seen Joe Campacna a few days earlier. 
"I have a swell job which I like a great deaL Kurtz and Comins are assistant first lieotenantib and the others are divided among the other poa­sible positions, as assistant gunnery officers, ete^ The living conditions are even better than we anticipated and that's quite a bit. How are you getting along with P.C. duty?" 
' Thanks; a million, Pete. I stodied P.Cs but may end up on anything in the fleet from the way H looks. For example, Easigas <WBgaa and Max McCaa^wy are headed you way on *tin cans." 
Ensisn Tom flaacaae had received orders to Amphibious (later dianged). Jeny Gaiatr was training as a gunnery officer ( now headed ovtf­seos), and Bab WaU^ Jim Cacasd and I axe aU in Communications. A funny thing is that we last four all ended up on the same floor of a hotel here, much closer than we lived to eadi other at 
N.D. Enaicn Jim Mc£Iray and Jade Bete taft without my seeing them, so I don't know iriicra they went. Eniigns Pat Donavaa and Clair Lai^ bert actually did get on PC on the West Coast. From your letter to Girard. I see where you've been traveling around Africa In a jeep, PMe. Nice work! 
Ensign <Vncc Starm is down East in the Axa­phibious training. The other day he managed to get his barge stranded on a sand bar and de­cided his load of jeeps should tty to make shore from there. He was quite astotmded when the first one, after going about 20 yards throoi^ the water, suddenly disappeared. Quince said he never saw a look on a man's face like the one on the driver of that jeep. Bat he likes it very (This all comes from a letter to Girard.) Boh Rihm and Bill Dvetak are with him also and each command three landing craft. I havai t heard a word from or about the others who went dow*n there with them. 
One of my best corresirandents, Blair IkCiawaa, came through this month again. Says Blur: "Now in Army Specialized Training Program at 
U. of Maryland. Tkldng engineering, and it's sore a lot different than good old boa. ad. No NJ>.'s here that I know of. WM CarxaS and I caaw to recl3S«fication and assignment unit at OUo State and had a great three weeks with a good dial of 
contrast to Camp Roberts. BUI went to U. of Hichi^n, I believe. Last I heard from Bob Le-Bleiiie. he returned to Roberts from emergency furloueh, and was traininc: in a rifle outfit. 
"Jim Harphy, Jim Csliill. Leo Keating, and the Godfreys are probably gone to [censoredl-Jack Solon was ill in hospital there the last I heard. Ran into Ensign Bill Strj-ker of South Bend in Washington the other night. Have you Morrill's address V I'm eight miles from Washington, 35 from Baltimore, and Redskins practice in our stadium a good deal." 
Sorry, I haven't MorriU's address but would have if he'd write. Hope you write again: you now lead the class in letters. A good example of what a guy can do with a postcard once Jn a while. 
I was pleasantly surprised last week to have a letter from Grace Neagle, Ed's sister. Seems Ed is traveling back and forth convoying goods to the Army and hasn't been able to write him­self. She says she reads the "Alumnus" through before he even gets a chance. I imagine a good many other sisters and mothers and fathers do also, so may I ask all of them to drop me a note telling the whereabouts of their man in the ser­vice. Again, even a postcard will do. From Grace Neagle: "Naturally Ed has a hard time keeping in direct touch with everyone, but the column helps. I was glad to see his roommate. Bill O'Con­nell, can still give his quick retorts. Ed has been overseas once and is again gone. The only con­soling thing about the Na\T is that eventually you meet almost everyone from N.D. "When he was in Virginia, I sent him the 'Alumnus' and that very night he met some N.B. men who nearly mobbed him when they found he'd gotten the lat­est issue and wasn't carrying it around with him. He knows better now. 
"Jack Berminglum. '42, is a second lieutenant now and has yet to meet an N.D. man. At one of the camps he was at, he saw an N.D. sticker and spent all of his free time watching it to see if he knew the owner. However, when he wasn't looking, the car left." 
Thanks very much, Grace. The fact that I've ne\*er had the pleasure of meeting you shouldn't keep you from writing again. I have, however, met your charming mother and father. 
From Lt. Bill O'NeiL He writes while home on furlough saying: 
"I went to Fort Hayes some seven months ago with Bill Mooritead, Jay Gibson and 'Beaver* Christman. From there *Mose,' Jay and I went to Ft. Ben Harrison to finance training school. Whi!e there I ran into Ed Reagen and Joe Trill­inr-I was one of the first to leave there going down to Duke U. for OCS three months later. On Sept. 1 the president gave me the right to wear the little gold bars. After my 10 days leave, I'm going back to Duke for a fiscal course before joining some field unit. 
"Since I left Fort Ben I heard that Moe was sent to a staging area and Jay went into a for­eign cadre. I have written both of my former roommates (Bob Roberts and Jim O'DonncU) but have not heard from them for some time. Bob was in New York last time I heard from him and Jim was in Kansas. Both expected to move on when they vrrote. 
"I haven't seen an N.D. man in months. But, I read the 'Alumnus' more thoroughly than 'Terry and the Pirates,' so keep -up the good work." 
Congratulations. Lieutenant, and write again. 

From Jim Halwr: 
"It was something of a surprise to pick up the recent 'Alumnus' and find myself listed 'in the service.' As a matter of fact, I'm on the staff of the New York office of a firm of CPAs and am still able to choose the color of my tie each morn­ing. Recently, while walking down Madison ave­nue, I met Jim McElroy who had come up from Miami and was expecting to leave soon. 

"In the course of three weeks at Norfolk, Va., I saw Ensicns Dan Stewart and Bill HcGowan in church one Sunday, and Ensign Paul Tkmcj in one of the hotels. The latter is on my list — by reason of assuring me that he'd be available for visitors one evening and then, after I finally managed to find my way out to the Amphibious base, going 'shore' that same evening. I can't say I blame him though. That brss is no summer resort. 
"Bob Rca!e is in Niagara Falls, working, and he writes that he met Bill Carey a couple of times. Bill was aviation cadet at Niagara U. but has since moved on. 
"I>cn Hallcr, as of two weeks ago (as this is written), was located at Camp Sutton, N. C, while one of his former sidekicks. Bill Hormbers* is out at Camp Robinson, Ark. Four weeks ago my roommate, Larry Sullivan, was heard from at Camp Lejeune, New River, N. C. 
"To go back to last June: I saw Dan Klein several times while he was at the Brooklyn Navy yard, but have not heard from him since he shipped out. June was also the last I heard from Fred Dewes, who was at Fort Eustis, Va. 
"Finally, it was three weeks ago tonight that Ensign BUI Middendorf was running through Grand Central in one direction when I was run­ning the other." 
Ensign Jim Girard, looking over my shoulder, says every time he thinks of or seas the word CPA, cold "schriUs" go down his back. Thanks, Jim. 
Ensi~n Jcrrj' Gainer just dropped in to say good'oye: he had received his orders today to go overseas. 
My thanks to all those who contributed to the Centennial Fond last year. There were 77 listed in the final report in the last "Alumnus." This was 24 percent of the class of 323; not as good as the classes immediately above us but still good considering that we have "just begun to fight" and have been rather unsettled since graduation. The second annual Fund will begin scon, so let's get to work. We should improve. 
From Bill Hawes: 
Ed Roney suggests that I send you a bit of *41 news since I have met quite a few of the boys in my class here in Miami. 
About the first parson I met in Miami was Art Maddalena. He had finished the courss here and was awaiting orders. We didn't have much time to talk, but from what he said I gathered he had had a few exciting experiences. Then, too, he w-as sporting the Silver Star medal and that was enough to convince me that he had done more than his share. Don KrrJovcc arrived a week or so later and looked quite good despite the fact that he had spent 16 days in a raft. He is living at the Bsach with his wife while he at­tends the school. 
Cap Jchring was spied at late Mzss one Sun­day and reported that he was still with the FBI. He travels a good bit. so I haven't seen too much of him. Lt. Bill Welsh has teen in this section with the Army for over a year and likes it a lot. He is in the Air Force and came up via OCS. 
Ted Poro'wski is living in the same hotel with , me, but I didn't sse him until the other day. He finished his course weeks ago but an appendicitis operation laid him low for a month. He expects to be sent to the engineering school at Syracuse, 

N. Y.. soon. Walt Fegan just arrived and. from all reports, has the situation well in hand. I saw him I::st night as he was leaving for a date with an Army nurse. 
A recent letter from Frank "Bnstcr** Hopkins was postmarked c/o Fleet P.O., N. Y., so I guess he is on his way. Frank was married to Millie O'Dea some time in June. His parents have moved from Youngstown, O., to Chicago, which means that the Youngstown Club hits lost one of its best supporters. While on the Youngstown Club I'll have to mention one of its greatest members, Martin Michael Shea. Marty was married to Mar­garet Scully some time in June, and latest re­ports indicate he is with the Army in Indianap­olis. George "Skip" Schreiber is overseas as a Supply Corps ensign. His aunt smd she thought he was in North Africa. Ran into Vern Witkowski in New York a coup!e months ago. He was await­ing transportation to an unknown destination. Before coming South I met Father Gartland in Boston, and he said he had just received a letter from Bad Brockman's father saying that Bud was a lieutenant in the Marine Corps and had been in on the fighting on the Solomons. 
I became engaged to George 0*Connor*s sister, Marjorie, a month ago and hope to be married soon. My orders are due next week. and. if the scuttlebutt is true. I'll be getting married months and months from now. George is working for Curtiss Wright in Indianapolis. He is the proud father of a son, Chris, and is hoping for another one in the fall. 
lliis isn't nearly as good as Jchnny Patterson's father's letter, but the weather in Miami is such that you don't exert yourself for fear of drown­ing in your own sweat. 
Commissioned recently at Quantico were the following '43 Marines: Bob NefT, John Lanihan, Tom Brock, Bob Webb and George Murphy. By the time this note appears in print. Bob Dove and Harry Wright will also probably be Leatherneck second looeys. 
Bin Waeldncr is in the Curtiss-Wright propellor division plant, Caldwell, N. J., and residing at 44 FarringtoD St., Caldwell. Privates Mike and Jim Godfrey, Litdifield, III., are in the same com­pany in the South Pacific, believe it or not; they are with a message center of an infantry unit. Address: S5th Inf.. APO 25, cjo FM., San Fran­cisco, 
Joe Walsh is a graduate student in chemistry at Carnegie Tech, Pittsburgh. 
Addresses: Pvt. Angnst T. Burke, 15107020. APO 7017, cyo P.M., San Francisco; Ensign John 
1943 REUNION 
Ensign BUI Ftaher writes cf a regular "Bipley" '43 reunion in the South Pacific In a port there. Ensign Ed Hiskey, Prt. Jim Godfrey, Pvt. Leo Keating, and 2nd Lt. John HcGraw (who left school in the middle of his inmor year bscanse of the draft) joined with Bin to hash over the 
•"•Id days.*' To add to the "one for the haaks** atmosphere: Keating and Fisher were nommates at N<D., Hickey was Aelr next-door neighbor, and Godfrey Ured only a caaple of doon down the han in Alnrani HaD. Bin is a skipper on the P.T. hosts and Ed is in the transports. 

F. B«i». Navy, c/o Fleet P.O., N.Y.C: Pfc Ed­ward C. Camminss. 1st S.T. Co. 3800, A. & H. College of TeJtas, College Station, Texas (takine enKineering); Ensisn James K. McCafferty, cjo Commander, Southwest Pacific Forces, Fleet P.O., San Francisco. 
Ensiin Bill Ford is also in the Fhcific. Ralph Csrabisi, a medical student in an Army specialist unit, is residing at 115 Grasmere Ed., Cynwyd, Pa. 
1944 and La+er 
Dan Downey, Co. C. 8lst IRTC, C=mp Roberts. Calif., wrote that he was hoping to pet into the Air Corps upon completing his basic. Bob Le-Mense, '43, Dan said, had completed his basic at Camp Roberts a month before, had been accepted by the Air Corps and was awaiting further assign­ment. Dan was much cheered by the news that his brother, Jim, *43, then at the University of Minnesota as an air cadet, was to be transferred to Santa Ana, Calif., to finish flight training. Dan and Jim were hoping to spend week-ends together. 

Pvt. John L. Denniston, Co. B, GTth Bn.. 14th Trg. Regt., Camp Fanning, Texas, was one of a super group of N.D. later day students who in­habited that garden spot during the summer. (Read news of the Camp Fannin NJ>. Club in the club section of this issue). When last he wrote. Pvt. D. was expecting to be transferred within a month. 
Denniston had been in touch with Ted Weber who, along with his pal AI Soromer. is still tending cavalry ponies at Fort Riley, Kans. At the same post, and a halfback on the Fort Riley football team that lost to Great Lakes by one point, is Capt. Benny Shcrtdan, football star at NJ). in other days. 
Prof. Dick Sullivan brings word that his former secretary, the Army Air Corps' Kelly Cook, can now be reached.at Sq. 108, Fit. B, AAFCC, San Antonio, Texas. 
Dave Condon, after part of a summer on the "South Bend Tribune/' headed back to his be­loved Nev.- Mexico, was drafted and is now at Fort Bliss. Texas. (See "Additional Military Men," this issue, for complete address.) 
Bay Kaka's Army Air Corps address: Sq. 116, Bks. 5603, San Antonio, Texas. 
FATHER SORIN'S NOTRE DAME 
(Continccd from PcS3 9) 

Under his leadership Notre Dame passed through the difficult transition period when the immigrant Catholic of the nineteenth century began to aspire to higher education. With scarcely 200 college youths, few of them wealthy enough to pay their own way, he kept alive the tradition of the Catholic col­lege of the arts which Sorin had brought from France, and added to it the prac­tical spirit of the West; to be scientists, lawyers, engineers and businessmen, such were the destinies of his students but always and above all they were to be Christian gentlemen with an uncon­querable zeal for conquest and for vic­tory. And near the end of his presidency of Notre Dame her graduates carried 
those ideals creditably on the battlefields of France. The new code of canon law terminated his term as president but not his devotion and labor for his college. He remained for many the living embodi­ment of Notre Dame, of her culture, her love of the beautiful, and of the Catholic philosophy of life which he has made in­separably a part of her tradition. 
Father Cavanaugh enjoyed calling his successor, Father James A. Bums, "the Patriarch" because he was his elder in years and in work at Notre Dame. Like Father Cavanaugh he had known Sorin and had come under the inspiration of Zahm. Father Burns had even at one time been a teacher of chemistry imder the direction of scientist Zahm. But for a decade and a half he had been forming, at the community's theological seminary in Washington, the priests of Holy Cross who were to carry on at Notre Dame. Tall and spare, Father Bums was no orator, although a genius in private conversation. Leaving his chemistry classes he had achieved distinction as a pioneer in the new science of education. His history of the Catholic educational system in the United States has not yet been displaced after 25 years; and he was one of the founders of the Catholic Educational Association. He was a uni­versity leader. 
In 1918 post-war Notre Dame wel­comed him to guide her in the multitud­inous problems of the era. Crowds of yonng Americans with scanty prepara­tion were rushing into the portals of American colleges. Notre Dame received her share of these young men, whose her­itage was untouched by the classical ideals of education and whose ambitions centered chiefly in commercial and in­dustrial triumphs. They found college athletics and extra-curricular activities much more of interest than Latin and Greek and history. Father Bums liter­ally opened the gates of Notre Dame to them and called upon his faculty to do what they could for these exuberant but clean-hearted American Catholic youths. 
Perhaps, Notre Dame youths did not bring with them much wealth but they had spirit and faith. New curricula were devised and new recreations allowed with the hope that with these necessary tools for modem business and life at least a minimum of culture and classic wisdom could be imparted. Father Bums was president for only three years but his guidance of Notre Dame ended only with his death on the eve of Notre Dame's centennial year. 
Under his calm direction Father Julius 

Nieuwland developed his acetylene chemr istcy; Knute Rockne achieved leadership in collegiate athletics; Father John O'Hara established the new religions tra­ditions of Notre Dame; Father Charles O'Donnell became the poet and the lead­er. The names of Charles Phillips, Fath­er Francis Wenninger and of other nnm^ erous workers in the unheralded class hours, or in prefecting chores, made the Notre Dame that was unknown to the sensational press. 
Notre Dame was relatively poor and a plea was made to the public for finances absolutely necessary to meet the great burdens resulting from the expanding services. New buildings were constructed, higher education and research really be­gun; and notwithstanding this, the old classical heritage was retained, so that when succeeding generations, better fit­ted for higher education, come to Notre Dame, they will find the same Notre Dame that Father Sorin built in the wilderness. It is the Notre Dame of Sor­in, of Zahm, of Cavanaugh and of Bums. It is the Notre Dame of countless others who worked just as hard and just as long but whom these leaders typify in this centennial year of Notre Dame. 
GOVERNOR KELLY SPEAKER 
(Continued from pase 4) 

honored at this historic commencement with the honorary doctorate of laws. Bishop O'Connor and Governor Kelly will be so honored. 
•Mr. Crowley, long recognized in the Middle West as a business leader through his several enterprises in Mad­ison and the State of Wisconsin, achieved outstanding national stature as chairman of the board of the Fed­eral Deposit Insurance Corporation, and his new post gives him added honors of world scope and significance. Mr. Crow­ley is a Knight of St. Gregory and an outstanding American Catholic layman. 
The war will be evident in the absence of many of those receiving degrees, and in the presence of a number of gradu­ates in the nniforms of the services, es­pecially the V-12 programs on the Notre Dame campus. The summer school, which did not hold a commencement during the summer, will also award its degrees, largely in the graduate field, on Oct. 29. 
All of the extra-formal ceremonies have been dispensed with in the interest of the war program. Alumni xeiinions, once an integral part of commencement, have been suspended for the duration. Only the immediate fomilies of the gxmd­nates wiU be in attendance. 
COMING UP.' 
THE SECOND ANNUAL ALUMNI FUND 
In the Centenary Year, the Opening Year, ONLY 3,462 Alumni (Out of 10,414) GAVE ANYTHING 
BUT That Loyal One-Third Gave $107,424.13* 
THIS YEAR (1943-44) 

(Which is the Diamond Jubilee Year of the Association] 
We Want— 

FAR MORE ALUMNI TO GIVE 
We Hope— THEY WILL INCREASE THE TOTAL 
* This figure as of Aug. I, 1943, included the maturity value acknowledgment of a number of War Bonds. 
Remember—You Can Be a Patriot AND a Benefactor! Buy War Bonds, and give them to Notre Dame. 





