The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
6-"'^=^ 

NOTRE DAME 
ALUAWUS 
Vol. 39 No.2 March-April, 1961 
Above: 
MOST REV. MARTIN J. O'CONNOR, LL.D. '60, signs in at new Rome Club bead-quarters after receiving honor­ar>- membership. See "A Home 
in Rome." 

Right: 
^UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME Communion Sunday circled the globe, as witness this after­noon observance in Rome ad­dressed by Rev. Edward L. Hcston, C.S.C., a participant in planning for the forthcom­ing Ecumenical Council. See "Second Council of the Vati­can," Club Reports. 
James E. Araistrong, '22  
Editor  
i  Page 12: 1961 38th ANNUAL  
I  UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT  John F. Loughlin,'48 Managing Editor ^  
•  THEME: PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY  

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION, 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS* 
Bditorial Comment 
Officers 


from your Alumni Secretary 

The struggle between God and Cae­sar is not new. Its persistence stems from the fact that the two images are contemporar)-. and therefore tlie tributes cannot be conveniently segregated, but must be properly divided and defined. I feel certain that more than four Notre Dame men in ten have an in­terest in the image of Notre Dame, and hold a genuine personal allegiance to the University. And I know, and have often said, that the measure of this allegiance is not alone in tlie alumni contribution to the Annual Alumni Fund. Yet the world asks the question, "How many alumni showed an interest in your school in 1960?" And the only statistical answer we have is the participation of alumni in the Annual Alumni Fund (which makes no demand in any fixed amount). In 1960 this figure dropped to 39.5%. You are not entirely to blame for this 1960 recession. The "Program for the Future," including the Memorial Library, shifted in botli nature and time-table during the year, and one result »vas a lack of pressure and a lack of clear-cut goals for alumni giving. I think also you were subconsciously waiting for what you felt would be a necessary appeal for special giving, a raising of the sights from previous an­nual gifts. As I write this, it looks as though our general appeal to alumni will come in this fall of 1961. Father Hesburgh has expressed the hope that, for three years at least, we might secure a minimum of $1,000,000 a year from alumni. That sounds like an ambitious tar­get. Actually it is modest in the light of our record. In 1960, for example, when our participation figure dropped to 39.5%, we still recorded $625,169.04 given by alumni to the University. This represented an average alumnus gift of $56.96. To secure the projected $1,000,000, 
we have only to raise our participation to 65%, al the same average gift. 
Dartmouth and Princeton have ex­ceeded 70% participation. This goal for us is neither optimistic nor im­practical, but a proved contemporary potential, and one well within the reach of a co-operative Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
Or we could reach the $1,000,000 if only the same loyal minority persisted, but raised tlie average of their annual gifts to $91 plus. 
It is my hope, and it is my belief, that when the University of Notre Dame presents its full and defined ap­peal to all alumni, the response will be forthcoming from twice as many alumni as are now responding to the Annual Fund appeal, and that each alumnus in this greater group will give not just the token small denomination gift that marks our present donor ma­jority, but will recognize, with raised sights and an element of sacrifice, the tremendous opportunity that the Ford Foundation matching gift of $6,000,­000 has given Notre Dame to acceler­ate the outstanding Program for the Future that its present leadership has evolved. 
This is a sermon on money, isn't it? 

Does it mean tliat we are worried or tricky in holding up this image of Caesar? 
I don't think so, and I am sure you don't. It just means that in this age and place, the free and wonderful opportunity to superimpose the City of God in the City of Man requires the proper understanding and use of both images. 
God's purposes have always been served by man's proper use of material things, his stewardship under God. 
If we must on occasion stress the 

means, it is only because in our close 
association and privil^ed understand­
ing we become so deeply convinced of 
the great ends such means will pro­
vide. 
Think now of your o\vn opportunity 
(Continued on page 16) 

JoH.v C. O'Co.N.NOR, '38 Honorary President WALTER L. FLEMI.VG, JR., '40 President PAUL J. CUSHI.NG, '3l..Fund Vice-President JAMES J. BYRNE, '43 Club Vice-•President 
W. EDMUND SHEA, '23..Class Vice-President 
JAMES E. .•\RMSTROXC, '25 ; Executive Secretary 
Directors to 1962 

JAMES J. BYRNE, '43 Byrne Plywood Co. Royal Oak, Michigan 0 
PAUL J. CUSHI.VG, '31 Hydraulic Dredging Co. Oakland, California 
WALTER L. FLEMING, JR., '40 Fleming & Sons, Inc. 
P.O.
 Box 1291, Dallas, Texas 

W.
 EDMUND SHEA, '23 Third National Bank Bldg. 


Dayton, Ohio 
Directors to 1963 

MAURICE CARROLL, '19 5743 Delmar Blvd. St. Louis 12, Missouri 
GEORGE L. CONNOR, '48 M 209 S. LaSalle St., Rm. 716 ' Chicago 4, Illinois 
WILLIAM P. MAHONEY, JR., '38 612 .Arizona Bank Bldg. Phoenix, .Arizona 
HARRY J. MEHRE, '22 686 Greenwood Ave., N.E. 
.\tlanta 6, Georgia 

Directors to 1964 

JOHN P. DEMPSEY, '49 Kidder, Peabody & Co. 123 S. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY, '50 4909 34th .Avenue, S. i Minneapolis, Minnesota 
WILLIAM H . FALLON, '37 18 Boston Post Rd. Larehmont, New York 
OLIVER H . HUNTER, '43 F.B.I., P.O. Box 23, New Castle, FLEMING  PennsyK-ania .Mxecutive
WALTER 
JAMES BYRNE. Club Activities


Chairmen of the 1961 Committees 
W. EDMUND SHEA Class Activities PAUL GUSHING ; 
Alumni Fundy Foundation and Gifts JAMES J. BYR.NE Preparatory SchooliM JoH.N DEMPSEY. 
Placement and Job Counseling 

W. EDMUND SHEA Inter-Alumni Affairs WILLIAM MAHONEY, JR 
Prestige and Public Relations 

MAURICE CARROLL 
Religion and Citizenship 

W. EDMUND SHEA AND JAMES BYRNE. 
Nominations HARRY MEHRE Budget and Finance WILLIAM MAHONEY, JR Jlesolutions 
This nugune is published bt>mont!l]y by the Uoivexsitr of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­
ter Oct. 1, 1939, at tbe Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind. under the act ol Aug. 24, 1912. 
f 

Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 




NOTRE DAME RECEIVES $5.7 MILLION IN 1960 
Alumni Contributions Down From 1959 Both in Total and Percentage of Participation 

A Although alumn i contributions dropped in amount and percentage of ; participation, the Universit)' of Notre Dame received $5:719,651 in gifts and r grants during 1960. The record total represents an increase of $2,343,859 over the previous year. 
Included in the overall figure is an initial grant of $1,075,000 from The Ford Foundation under terms of its ne«' Special Pi-ogram in Education. The philanthropic organization has ^awarded Notre Dame a $6,000,000 matching grant, to be remitted on the basis of one dollar for ever)' two dol­lars which the University receives from alumni, friends, corporations and other non-governmental sources up to Jime 30, 1963. To meet this challenge, Notre Dame has spelled out a three­; year, $18,000,000 natiomnde fund­raising program including an $8,000,­
•. 000 Notre Dame Memorial Library to 
be built beginning this summer. § Of the $5,719,651 total $613,410 
•
 was in gifts providing life income to 

•
the donor. 


Alumni contributed $625,169 dur­';ing 1960, and the gifts of honorary f alumni accounted for $43,591. A to­;tal of $3,134,153 came from non-
alumni sources including 486 corpo­i rations and foundations. Research ; grants and fellowships, principally ifrom government agencies, totalled '$1,916,737. 
^ There were 10,976 alumni contri­
^butions averaging $56.96. For the sec­lond consecutive year, the class of 1928 Icontributed the largest amount to its lalma mater, $69,967, while the class |of 1949 had the largest number of con­ftributions, 478, for the second year in |a row. i Parents of 1,979 present and former (Students contributed 259,972 to their Isons' school. This is an increase of 431 
;'gifts and $73,785 over the previous I year. 1^ Gifts and grants from corporations I (Continued on page 8) 
CLASS REPORT -I960 
Amoimt Number of Class Con­Contri­Number tributed butions of .Altmuii 
ISflfl .inrl hrfnrr . 9 9,753.74 U 57 
inni 37 0(1 2 10 
i>in2 29.00 6 17 
irnis 130.00 3 13 
4,200.00 9 17 
4<ionn 7 18 
i-infi 1,690.00 7 32 
inn? 170.00 4 20 
I7(;nn 3 28 IS09 . . .._ .343.00 7 30 8 27 20 39 1912 .. .._. . 3,196.00 10 54 io n 929.00 22 38 ini4 936.00 17 67 ._ 4,793.00 28 6» laifi . 17,020.00 21 63 13,fi'>5 ?3 39 102 191R .. . 2,961.00 33 77 1919 2,976.00 14 67 1920 4,144.00 30 81 1921 _ _ 2,704J0 36 107 1922 _ ._ . __. ._ ._ 30,076.00 73 181 1923 _ . 7,204.67 67 232 1924 ._ ._ 3,680.00 80 217 lO'.i . .- 7,324 33 109 298 IMK 13,983 90 99 233 1927 6,024j9 131 389 1928 -._ 69,967.81 163 468 ... 12,414.26 131 472 R,5<non 193 488 1931 .. . _ 13,712J)7 178 306 1932 .. . _.. . 7,667J0 171 516 1933 _ _ 8,333.84 161 333 1934 . __ ,._. „ . .. . 6,796.03 163 377 1935 .._... _ 14,642.00 176 330 6,-B4.93 122 423 . „ 3,697.98 119 460 1938 --. _ . _ . 3,!M2.77 132 523 1939 6,630j0 184 568 
1940 13,283.71 210 637 
3,881.73 201 386 1912 ._ .. 7,262.88 202 577 19t3 6,872.00 193 581 1044 II,466J9 214 380 IMS __ -.. 7,120.92 128 346 
1,810,50 92 310 3,103.00 187 693 1948 __. . . .-.. 7,1.39.20 362 1031 1949 10,887.00 478 1403 23,4'r) US 397 1170 19.il , 6,001.90 319 914 1932 - . ._ 9,119.29 363 llOO 1953 7,232.00 348 980 1954 ..---6,867.36 364 1037 _ _ 9,076.46 339 996 1956 .,, _... 16,646 in 373 1131 1937 4,882.03 414 1167 1938 _ .._ _ . 6,810.32 380 1276 4,702.00 368 1271 2,6!6.IS 186 1252 
13,234.86 7 
43p9l.43 16 Notre Dome Clubs _-_._ _ 32,132.42 37 Alumni Corpomtlons ____ 84,538.30 99 Gitts in Kind — . 8,368 J 9 4 
rnm 

Tnlal $ 668,760.49 •Student Senate —?I3,000 
Percentage of Fhrtidpation 
193 20.0 33.3 20.0 
52S 
38.9 21.9 20.0 10.7 23J 
333 18.3 37.9 23.4 43.8 32J 38.2 
KJ9 
203 
37.0 
33.6 
403 
283 363 36.6 39.1 33.7 34.8 31.9 39.9 33.2 33.1 29.1 28.2 32.0 28.7 23.9 29.1 32.4 323 343 33.0 33.6 363 363 29.7 263 35.1 34.1 333 343 33.0 333 33.1 34.0 33.2 353 29.8 283 143 

Notre Dame Alumnus, Uarch-AprU, 1961 

Football Ticket Information for Alumnf 
A murderous schedule taces fhe hopeful Irish, buf hope won't be enough to come out on top of Oklaho­ma, Purdue, Soufhern Co/. Michigan State, North­western, Navy, Pittsburgh, Syracuse, fowa and Duke! What a lineup we face; but with very few gradua­tion fosses and some promising sophomores, even those topnotch teams will have their hands full with Notre Dame this year. 
By ROBERT CAHILL, '34 Ticket Manager 
plications received at that point arc thoroughly shuffled, DRA^\T>I BY LOT AND ASSIGNED A SEQUENCE NUMBER to establish the order of seat assignment for each game for all orders on hand opening day. Since three or four thousand orders for each of the more popular games will arrive for processing on June 20 (accounting^ for six or eight thousand tickets), ob­viously even a first-day order for such games could be on the fifty or beyond the goal line, DEPENDING ON THE LUCK OF THE DRAW. This is the answer to the alumnus' question as to why, although he ordered for all games on the very first day, he may receive fine scats for one game, poor ones for another (or fine seats for all; or poor seats for all). After Monogram and Season ticket (more about Scasor^ tickets below) orders are satisfied, ONLY 4,000 TICKETS ARE AVAIL­ABLE BETWEEN THE GO.A.L .AND FIFTY IN THE ALUMNI SECTION. 
Hence, for the more popular games, it is readily seen that a first-day order could fare poorly; and an alumnus waiting to file his order until July 1 or after can look for nothing but scats behind the north goal (please look at the diagram). 
5. General Use ticket applications arc mailed annually to -ALL alumni the latter part of July, prior to the August 1 opening of public sale. AS'hile 
We never set much store by that old 
saw about the "ill w-ind" until last foot­ball season. For once fellow alumni were so concerned over the losing rec­ord diey completely forgot to give us the usual what-for for tlieir poor seats! Truly, w e felt just a bit neglected, and found ourselves wistfully recalling die daj's when we had to sneak into the stands in disguise. But now, widi an entire year of respite, we'll be more than glad to see the alumni slings and arrows once more zeroing in on die 'Ticket Manager, nice and nonnal-like. AVe resent tlie football team hogging complaints that used to be exclusively ours. . . . ! Seriously, tlie ticket situa­tion remains in status quo, and so . . . for the twenty-first year, we ask you to peruse our parliamentary pro­cedure for football tickets, or Robert's 
Rules of Ordering: 
1. Contributors to the Eighteenth Annual Alunmi Fund in 1960, religious and honorary degree holders, plus the June Class of 1961, are eligible for adv-ance sale order forms for the 1961 football season. NOTA BENE: A con­tribution SINCE January 1, 1961 as­sures ticket priority for 1962, but NOT for this current year of 1961. 
2. Alumni Ad\-ance Sale opens June 
•20, closes July 15. It should be under­stood that this closing date means that an order filed after that date, regard­less of the type of order form used, vnil be accorded general use treat-

Notre Dame Alumnus, Majch-April, 1961 
mcnt. Nor docs it mean that an order filed before July 15 is guaranteed a preferred location (see Paragraph 4 for amplification). 
3.
 Advance Sale order forms are readily identified by the words "Alum­ni Advance Sale" in bold tj-pc along the left edge of the form. These should be in the hands of eligible alumni prior to June 20. If you have not received them by then (jot this date on your desk calendar right now) and you arc certain you qualify un­der Paragraph 1 above, notify the Ticket Manager at once. Envelopes for Alumni order forms are addressed by the .•\lumni Office but filled and mailed by the Ticket Office. Omissions will be corrected upon notification, but if notification arrives after a sellout has taken place, correction may be impossible. Usually the trouble lies ^^*ith address changes. Therefore if your address differs from that used for tliis issue of the ALUMNUS or if it will change by June 1, forward that change at once to the Alumni Office. 

4.
 Advance Sale forms are limited to two tickets per game, are not trans­ferable, will be honored until July 15 or until the ticket supply is exhausted. SE.'VTS ARE ALLOTTED IN AC-CORDiVNCE WITH D.\TE RE­CEIX'ED, modified only as follows: Orders arri\'ing BEFORE opening day (June 20) are integrated at random wth those received on June 20. Then, at close of business June 20, all ap­


BOB CAHILL 
CATC 14 
it is possible that Ad\'ancc Sale de­scribed above could claim our entire ticket supply, as of now we feel there will be public sale for all games. 
General Use forms are transferable and usually valid for unlimited quantity of tickets. The contributing alumnus who has already used his .•\d\-ance Sale form for two tickets may place addi­tional orders via the General form. Moreover, the General Use form is a convenient source of tickets for the non-contributing alumnus as well as a reminder to him that tickets are a\'ailablc. These General forms carr>' no locational preference, for all such orders are filled after .Adx-ance Sale purchases. 
6.
 Public sale opens annually on August 1. The Ticket Committee will be glad to send public order forms to any addressee upon request as long as tickets arc a\-ailable. 

7.
 .'Mumni Clubs planning on a block of tickets for an excursion must file a request with the Ticket Manager BY JUNE 20. Final action on block orders may not be taken until individ­ual sale closes July 15, and then only if sufficient tickets remain. However, a tentative •-reservation will be made and an .•\lumni Club will be given preference in case of short supply; moreover, for "some critical games, no groups EXCEPT .Alumni Clubs are considered. But as to scat locations for groups, the following is de rigueur: BLOCK ORDERS ARE FILLED FROM SE.ATS REMAINING .\FTER 


'ar£-/3 

ALL INDIVIDUAL ORDERS HA\'E BEEN ASSIGNED. THIS PERMITS ONLY END ZONE SE.\TS, IN­VARIABLY. 
8. Alumni Clubs frequently ask for two or more seats in "choice location" for raffle or fund-raising awards. Be­cause of the problems described in Paragraph 4, unless a Club member (or members) surrenders his .'\d\'ance Sale pri\nlege for the game desired, tickets for prizes must be of the general sale \-ariety. 
In Adjournment ... . The 1961 schedule is a beauty, well balanced at home and away. Because of the attraction of all the home op-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 1961 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
Sept. 30 Oklahoma Notre Dame 
Oct. 7 Purdue Lafayette 
Oct. 14 So. California..Notre Dame 
Oct. 21 Michigan State..East Lansing 

Oct. 28 Northwestern  Notre Dame  
Nov. 4 Navy.  Noire Dame  
Nov. 11 Pittsburgh  Pittsburgh  

Nov. 18 Syracuse ...Notre Dame 
Nov. 25 Iowa Iowa City Dec. 2 Duke Durham 
ponents, the advance interest seems quite evenly distributed. For the first time, too. Southern California plays at ND in October, rather than the biennial late-November appearances of the past Plus the Trojans at Home, we meet Oklahoma, Northwestern, Navy and Syracuse. We think this is truly one of our better home schedules. 
Concerning Season Tickets. Each year, many alumni inquire as to whether it is to their advantage to use Alumni Advance order blanks, game by game, or buy a Season Ticket, which admits to all of the home games. The answer depends on what the alumnus wants If two tickets meet his needs, then he should use his Alumni Advance privilege. Although this priv­ilege doesn't guarantee preferred lo­cation (again see Paragraph 4), still the opportunity is there. With the Sea­son Ticket, it is not. There is no alum­ni preference for Season Tickets, and only end zone seats are available. It is renewable automatically each May 1, however, and there is no quantity limit. Thus, if location is not para­mount, an alumnus may assure himself of any quantity of tickets for each game renewable each year via the Season Ticket plan. Alumni might presume, after looking over the sta­dium diagram, tliat the Season Ticket locations shown in the alumni sec­tions (Sections 8 and 9) are held by, and available to, alumni only. Such is not the case. These Season Tickets were assigned prior to 1943, when the alumni section was more than ade­quate, and because of the renewal feature of Season Tickets, removal of these patrons from alumni sections is a slow process. However, we have not sold any Season Tickets in Sections 8 or 9 SINCE 1942. The Season Ticket sale opens annually on May 1 and we shall be glad to send complete in­formation upon request.. 
Some of you may be approached this year (we already have been) either sardonically or sincerely with the idea that "good" seats ought to be plenti­ful, in view of our past couple of sea­sons. Again glancing at the diagram 
— if we issued only 20,000 tickets to a home game, including 6,000 students, we still wouldn't have anything but end zone seats to offer anyone Tafter we reached that figure of 20,000. So bear ^vith us again if you're not on tlie fifty — or on the ten, for that matter. You've been a most under­standing group over the years. . . . 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 
•> 




A HOME IN ROME 
OPENING OF NEW CLUB HEADQUARTERS, INDUCTION OF ARCHBISHOP O'CONNOR, LECTURE BY FATHER HESTON MARKED UNIVERSAL SUNDAY IN ETERNAL CITY 
Tliis time tlie N.D. Club of Rome leads witli an ALERT. ^Ve have a new home in Rome. In permanent quarters under tlie club's OWTI "shingle", we are located just around tlie comer and across tlie street from our tiaditional rendezvous, the Scoglio Di Frisio Res­taurant. 
This is not a walk-out on Gus Rossi, tlie genial proprietor of the restaurant, an N.D. "catacomb alumnus" who has been unmeasurably kind to us during the past five years. All hands continue to dine at the Scoglio and woe betide any visiting "Irish" firemen who know­ingly by-pass this diners paradise. In fact, Signore Rossi has volunteered to act as tlie new club's "Administratore", or go-between in all contacts with Ital­ian autliorities and professional people. To boot, he has assisted us, no end, in opening the club at its present site. 

As we have already written to all 

N.D. Club presidents, our new center is intended as an oasis of hospitality for all Notre Dame men, their families and friends. During the past five years, we have been happy to host literally tliousands of the N.D. Family, but necessarily on a more or less hit-and­miss basis. Now it is time to anchor and stabilize our program and make it 
known to everyone concerned. To quote our recent letter to ali 
N.D. Club PrcKies: "Besides luggage, visitors usually airive weighed down widi 101 weight)' questions starting witli: 'Can we see the Holy Father?' and ending with: '^Vllere can we get a decent cup of real American coffee.'?' While we perk the "real" American coffee for you, the rather good avail­ability of the Holy Father can be leis# urely sur\'eyed. 
"We are particularly interested in helping to shape your stay in the Eternal City so that it may be thor­oughly enjoyed on all levels and to rid 
>-|av  
i)  i  
v^-^­ 

Guests in the crowded Accademia Alfonsiana auditorium included (front row, L to r.) Rev. Edward L. Heston, C.S.C., speaker on the Second Vatican Council; Very Rev. William P. Gaudrcau, C. SS. R., superior general oJF the Rcdemptorists; Most Rev. Martin J. O'ConnoiA \ | 
LL.D. '60, rector of North American College, presiding; Rev. Raymond Miller, C.SS.R., assistant general; Rev. Alexis Driscoll, O.P., ' ' 
socius of Dominicans. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, March-Ap-.il, 1951 
GEORGE GLEASON, '36, president of the Rome Club, read a message from the Holy Father and Introduced Father Heston, procurator-postulator general of Holy Cross and member of the Commission for Religious for the Vatican Council. Afternoon lecture on Universal N.D. Communion Sunday marked the opening of new Club Headquarters. 
it of galloping-exhaustion and found­ering-frustration over such items as the local language and the funny money, 
I etc. "As a Chrbtmas gift, the N.D. Club of Rome offers you a New Year's Motto: St. Paul's famous words, 'I must see Rome.' Once you decide, St. [ Peter awaits you with the Keys to the 
•Kingdom, and we have the Keys to the City. Should you write that you are coming — or sending 'Uncle Hen and Auntie Hat' or even 'friends of friends of . . .' — we will be on the fraternal alert. And if there is any i chore we can do for you in advance — short of scheduling a spaghetti-bowl game in the Colosseum — we will be happy to oblige, Notre Dame style." 
The center was inaugui^ated on Notre Dame Annual Communion Day, December 11th. Mass and Communion was as usual at Holy Cross Seminary followed by coffee and coffee-cake dur­ing which George Gleason, '36, was installed as new President. In the ab­sence of Chris Cochrane, '46, First Vice 
I President, Joe DeLia, '47, Second Vice Pres. handed over the gavel of office-in the name of retiring President, Jerry Ashley, '33. 
The scheduled talk on the Second Vatican Council was held in the after­noon for the public in the new audi­torium of the Accademia Alfonsiana (across from the new N.D. center), courtesy of the Very Reverend AVilliam 
P. Gaudreau, C.SS.R., Superior Gen­eral of the Redemptorist Fathers, (and uncle of ND's footballer. Bill Gau­dreau) . I T o a packed house, our Chaplain, 
Father Edward L. Heston, C.S.C., '30, Procurator-Postulator General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, gave an excellent lecture. His Excellency Most Rev. Martin J. O'Connor, '60, Presi­dent of the Vatican Council's Secre­tariat for Communications Media, pre­siding. At the conclusion of the lecture. Archbishop O'Connor was awarded Honorary Membership in the Notre Dame Club of Rome. 
Open House was tlien held at the club as Archbishop O'Connor led the way for a look-see at the new center. 
So the welcome mat is out c/o: 
Notre Dame Club 
of the Eternal City Palazzo Brancaccio Largo Brancaccio 82, Rome, Italy Telephone 730002 

ARCHBISHOP O'CONNOR receives his certificate of honorary mcmbciship in the Notre Dame Club of the Eternal City from Joseph De Lia, '47. 
Notre 

N.D. MEN MUCH 

IN EVIDENCE AT '61 NCAA MEET 
Notre Darners seen at NCAA convention in Pittsburgh, January, 1961: Larry (Moon) Mullins, '31, Marquette athletic director; Jim Harris, '33, Holy Cross line coach; Bemie Crimmins, '42, Purdue end coach; Lou Rymkus, '43, Houston Oilers head coach; Fred Wallner, '51, Houston Oilers assistant coach; Andy Pilney, '36, Tulane head coach; Johnny Lattner, '54, Denver backficid coach; Bemie Witucki, '34, Cal­gary assistant coach; Pat Filley, '45, assistant athletic director, Cornell; Ken Stilley, '36, Clairton mayor and Pitt Steeler assistant coach; Harry Baujan, '17, Dayton athletic director; George Dickson, '50, College of Pacific assistant coach; Matt Bolger, '43, Rutgers assistant coach; Jack Zilly, '47, Broxvn end coach; Milt Piepul, '41, Brown backfield coach; Ambrose (Bud) Dudley, '42, Liberty Bowl; Leroy Leslie, '52, bas­ketball coach, Johnstoivn, Pa., Catholic; Bov Dove, '43, Buffalo assistant coach; John Mastrangelo, '47, Pittsburgh resi-
ARE YOU READING THIS OVER SOMEBODY ELSE'S SHOULDER? 
You needn't, you know, if you were ever a student at Notre Dame. You could get your own free subscription by writing to the Alumni Office. If you arc a graduate there is reason to be­lieve that you haven't let us in on your current address, but even if you didn't get a degree the slightest indication of interest would soon bring you an ap­plication blank. Just write to the Alum­ni Association, Box 555, Notre Dame, Indiana. The Alumni Board will elect you to membership in good standing. 
dent; John Mazur, '51, Boston University backfield coach; Bob Maddock, '42, Regina, Canadian Football League; George Kelly, '53, Marquette assistant coach; Harry Stuhl­dreher, '25, U.S. Steel, Pittsburgh; Phil Yanoschik, '50, Wayne State assistant coach; Bill Smyth, '43, Ottawa assistant, Canadian League; Dave Flood, '53, Pittsburgh high school coach. 
From Notre Dame . . . Father Joyce, Moose Krause, Herb Jones, Bob Cabill, Charlie Callahan, and football coaches Hughie Devote, Bill Daddio, Don Doll, Dick Stanfel, and Brad Lynn, and baseball coach Jake Kline. 
Also Jim Finks and Hank Stram, former Notre Dame assistant coaches. . . . Finks' now General Manager of Calgary, Cana­dian and Stram, head coach Dallas, .Ameri­can League. 
Also John Crowley, '28, MacGregor Sporting Goods, once Jack McAllister's predecessor as athletic equipment manager. 
Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 
Facts About Ford, Fund, Foundation 
REV. FRANCIS J. BOLAND, C.S.C., '18, (sho»'n as he it'as recognized on campus as a professor, dean, and prefect of disci­pline) died December 31, 1960, on duty as chaplain of the Veterans Administration Hospital in New York City. A scholarly writer on political science, Father Boland had also ser\'ed in recent years as president of Stonehill College, Mass., and St. Ed­ward's University, Austin, Tex. 
Notre Dame Receives $5.7 Million 
(Continued from page 3) 

and foundations increased $],286,501 due largely to tlie Ford Foundation grant. The roster of corporate contrib­utors to Notre Dame reads like a ^Vho's \Vho of Ameiican business and in­dustr)', but it also includes relatively small local and family-controlled finns. 
The total of Notre Dame's research grants and fellowships, $1,916,737, was nearly a half-million dollars great­er tlian in 1959. Principal sources of government support for research at the Universit)' included the U. S. Atomic Energ)' Commission, the National Science Foundation, die National In­stitutes of Healdi, and die U. S. Army, Na\ y and Air Force. 
During the past year Notre Dame received 368 gifts of $1,000 or more. Of tliese, 77 were for more tlian $5,000, and 11,334 were for $25 or less. 
Illinois recored tlie greatest total of alumni gifts for 1960 with $141,606 and also had the'greatest number of alumni contributors, 1,481. Other states ranking high in terms of alumni financial support were Indiana, Ohio, New York, Michigan, Iowa, California, Pennsyh'ania, New Jersey and Mis­souri in that order. 
Because some confusion may have re­sulted from the article in the last 1960 issue on matching gift programs bear­ing the name "Ford," the following clarification may be in order. 
There are three programs prefixed by "Ford" contributing to education, origi­nated by three distinct corporations: 
l.Thc Ford Motor Company of De­troit, Michigan, contributes to uni­versities directly and through its new employee matching grant pro­gram. Ford Education AID (As­sistance and Incentive Donation), which will grant up to §6,000 to match employee gifts up to $5,000 to private universities. The pro­gram was responsible for gifts of more than 52,000 in its first few months of operation. 
2. The Ford Foundation, popularly (and confusingly) referred to as the "Ford Fund," especially in newspaper headlines, is an entirely separate institution (except for its capitalization in non-voting Ford Motor Company stock), established in 1936 with headquarters in New York City. A private foundation for the support of educational, scien­tific, cultural, civic and govem-Inental projects, it contributed more than $3 million to Notre Dame's faculty development pro­gram and recently announced a contingent grant of $6 million over three years if the University can raise at least $12 million from other sources. The Foundation has also granted several hundred thousand dollars in recent years for Soviet 
studies. Arts and Letters, the edu-. cation department, the University Press, etc 
3. The Ford Motor Company Fund is a non-profit company-sponsored corporation established by the De­troit company 10 years ago to sup­port educational, scientific. and charitable activities. It is not re­lated to the Ford Foundation. but^i is generally supported by annual cash contributions from the Ford Motor Company. The Fund makes direct grants to colleges and uni­versities of its choice, to be used for whatever purpose the presidents of the schools deem best. It also sponsors the Ford Scholarship program. 
The Ford article referred erroneously to Peter F. Keman, Jr., '49, now with the College Recruitment Program of0) the Ford Motor Company, as a former employee of the Ford Foundation. Ac­tually he is a former employee of the Ford Motor Company Fund. And Leo 
J. Brennan, Jr., '51, mentioned as a present Ford Foundation employee, is employed by the Ciril Affairs office of the Public Relations Department of the Ford Motor Company. 

LAWRENCE TIMOTHY SHAW ,'22 (better known as "Buck" or "the Silver Fox"), his hair a little whiter than in this 
10-year-oid portrait, is still the unique aristocratic gentleman of the professional football coaching profession after having wound up a distinguished career with a National Football League triumph for bis$i) Philadelphia Eagles. Buck will continue in 
private business in San Francisco. 

S Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 
•Rome Favors Lourdes Grotto at Notre Dame with Indulgences 

INDULGENCES: 
The Sacred Apostolic Penitentiary 

granted to tlie Grotto of Our Lady of i Lourdes, at Notre Dame, Indiana the "following indulgences: 
•{ (1) Plenary Indulgence lo any group i (of three or more), at any time, as j often as tliey visit the Grotto and pray I for the intention of tlie Holy Father : and follow tlie usual conditions for gaining indulgences. Also, a Plenary Indulgence to any individual who visits the Grotto on the Feast of Our Lady of Lourdes and follows the usual pro­
: cedure of gaining the indulgence. -(February 11th). 
Also a Partial Indulgence of 500 days 

for any individual as often as he visits ; tlie Grotto and prays for the inten­i tion of the Holy Fatlier. 

NOTRE DAME MEN REMEMBER THEIR GROnO. 

^1896 Fr. Thomas Carroll, of Oil City, , Pa., a Notre Dame man, gave the ; finances to have tlie Grotto built and 
completed on tlie Feast of Our Lady , of Snows. He also gave tlie first schol­arship to the University. 
-1957 Jerr)' Ashley, another Notre : Dame man, was instrumental in financ­ing a beautiful reliquary in tlie foiTn 
mof tlie Golden Dome for the precious Fii-st Class Relic of St. Bemadette which is endironcd on the altar in Sacred Heart Church in front of die painting by Gregori (approx. 1880) of the Grotto scene of the Apparition to St. Bemadette. 
1958 Thomas Hamilton of Racine, AVisconsin, anodier Notre Dame grad­uate, financed the blacktopping of the Grotto. 
1960 Don S. Cisle of Hamilton, Ohio, anotlier Notre Dame man, donated tlie beautiful aluminum plaques, remind­ing the people of the indulgences gi-anted by Rome to the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes. 
1960 Dec. 2nd, Hong Kong. Dr. Tom Dooley to Fr. Hesburgh. 
In a letter to Fr. Hesburgh. . . . Dr. Tom Dooley says: "But when the time comes, like now then die storm around me does not matter. The winds wiUi­in me do not matter. Nothing human or earthly can touch me. A wilder storm of peace gathers in my heart. AVhat seems unpossessable I can pos­sess. AVhat seems unfathomable, I fadiom. What is unutterable, I can utter. Because I can pray. I can com­municate. How do people endure any­thing on earth if they cannot have God?" 
"But just now . . . and just so many times, how I long for the Grotto. Away from the Grotto Dooley just prays... ." ". . . if I could go to the Grotto now Uien I tiiink I could sinsr inside. . . ." 
ALUMINUM PLAQUES stating grotto indulgences are the gift of Don Cisle, an alumnus from Hamilton, O. 
". . . That Grotto is the rock to which my life is anchored. . . ." 
1961 Jan. 13di. Fr. Hesburgh visits Dr. Tom Dooley in New York hospital. Announced from the pulpit at all the Masses was the message to Fr. Hes­burgh from Dr. Tom Dooley: "Tell the students to pray for me especially at the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes." 


Cackley Resigns for Development Post at Fairleigh Dickinson 
On March 1 John N. Cackley, Jr., '37, resigned his position as assistant director of the Notre Dame Founda­
tion and editor i 
of Notre Dame 
magazine to join 
Fairleigh Dickin­
son University, 
Rutherford, N. J., 
as director of de­
velopment. Jer­
ome Parker, '30, 
will fill his posi­
tion at Notre Dame. John Cackley 
John had been with the Foundation since its establishment in 1947. He had helped to found the quarterly Notre Dame, serNang as managing editor, and had been editor-in-chief for the past three years. He had previously served as American vice-consul in Marseilles, France, and with the U.S. Army in Italy in World War II. He had also served with the savings bond division of the U.S. Treasury Department and with General Motors Acceptance Corp. He and his %vife Marguerite have eight children. 
Parker was formerly advertising manager for Matson Steamship Lines in San Francisco, California, and American Airlines in New York City. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March-AprU, 1961 
•) 


Symposium 
A S>Tnposium on "Next Steps to Extend the Rule of Law" will be held at the Notre Dame Law School on April 29. Dean O'Meara has explained the theor>- and pur­pose of the S>*mposium as follows: 
"To get an>^vhere it is necessar)- first of all to start out. This elementarj' truth seems to me to receive scant attention in the debate about how to preserve man­kind from extinction. Moreover, what­ever the institutions are which we finally succeed in achieving to keep the peace, they cannot possibly be blueprinted in advance. They must be and they will be the product of an evolutionary- develop­ment. For this further reason the greatest contribution we can make, it seems to me, is always to press on with the next steps as they become discemable. What are now the -next steps? The purpose of our S>-raposium is to explore and, if possible, to illuminate that problem." 
The following have accepted an invi­tation to participate: Charles S. Rhvne, 400 Hill BIdg., Washington 6, D.'c , Chairman of the .American Bar Associa­tion's Committee on World Peace Through Law: Professor Arthur N. Hol­combe. Chairman of the Commission to Study the Organization of Peace, 345 East 46th St, New York 17, N. Y.; Dean Louis H. Mayo, Graduate School of Public Law, The George Washington University, Washington 6, D. C; Profes­sor Stanley D. Metzger, Georgetown Uni­
(Continued on page 16) 


THE '500' CLUB FOR THE N. D. LAW SCHOOL 
I have been asked to ^vrite a little piece about a new entity known as The "500" Club for the Notre Dame Law School — or The "500" Club for short. This organization was formed by the Board of Directors of the Notre Dame Law .Association at the fall meeting last November. Its name derives from the target number of members set by the Board. The goal is to have it constituted by 500 alumni or friends who will agree to contribute $100 or more each year to the Scholarship Fund of The Law School. _ 
Dean O'Meara must have at least §50,000 in order to attract a sufficient number • ' (a handful isn't enough) of superior students. For the quality of a law school depends largely upon the caliber of its student. It is hoped that The "500" Club, supple­mented by the annual scholarship drive, will supply all the funds neccssar)- to make our Law School second to none in quality. 
All who contribute $100 or more during the period from July 1, 1960 to June 30, 1961 will be automatically considered charter members of The "500" Club unless they indicate othenvise. At this writing we have nearly 100 members. The membership drive only began on Februarj- 1st and we are therefore gratified at the results to date. However, we need 400 more! 
I am sure that some who should have been specially invited to join The "500" Club were unintentionally overlooked. If you happen to be one of these, please forgive me and write Dean O'Meara of your desire to join. 
The best %ray to tell you more about The "500" Club is to quote from a letter I re­cently wrote to 400 invitees: . Some of the perquisites of membership are these: " ' 
1.
 Each year, the "500" Club members will be specially invited to the campus in recognition of their demonstrated interest in the Law School to learn first-hand of the progress of Notre Dame and its Law School. 

2.
 The members' names will appear on a scroll to be maintained in a prominent location in the Law Building. 

3.
 The membership will be published annually in the Alumnus and also in Dean O'Meara's .Annual Report which is widely distributed. 

4.
 A certificate suitable for framing will be mailed to each member. The Notre Dame Law School has reached a level of eminence that is not yet fully appreciated in some quarters. Praise and recognition have come from all directions: judges (including Justices of the United States Supreme Court), law schools, practicing lawyers. For e-vample, recently Dean O'Meara \vas approached by a very successful Har\-ard law)-er who has a son now in prc-law training. "This prominent attorney stated that he would like to have his son go to the Notre Dame Law School, and he asked the Dean to talk"' with his son and attempt to persuade him to enroll at Notre Dame. The "Notre Dame method" was the subject of an article several years ago in the American Bar Association Journal. The essence of it is that, after the first year, the student devotes all of his time to actual legal problems, thus engaging in the practice of law: research, planning, advising, preparation of memoranda and opinions, trials, brief-writing, 


etc. Notre Dame therefore eliminates or at least minimizes the boredom, which as Dean Griswold of Har\-ard has obser\*ed, sets in on law students after the freshman year: 
"Students t5-pica]ly find great intellectual excitement in the first year of law school. But for some students stimulation appears to fall off in the later years and the rate of accomplishment seems lower." Harvard Law School, Dean's Report 1958S9, p. 3 
He attributed it "to a lack of intellectual progression through the three years — too much of the sameness of method and objective in each year." 
No law school can be great unless a lar^e percentxige of its students are of superior© qualitj". The time has come, however, when the increasing complexities of the law and sk}'-rocketing costs of education have combined to make it impossible for most law students to finance their legal education mthout assistance. As Dean O'Meara stated in his Annual Report for 1959-60: 
"The t>T3ical law student does not come from a well-to-do family. In point of fact, most law students can expect little if any help from their parents; they are on their own financially. In this situation the high cost of attending the Notre Dame Law School creates for many a problem that is simply insoluble unless we are able to pro\-ide financial assistance by way of scholarships and loans. 
"There are some few who argue that a student should be able to put himself through law school. These people do not realize that times have changed. The pace in law school is not longer leisurely; it cannot be. The law has grown to such an extent, both in magnitude and in complexity, that getting a legal education has become, 4^ perforce a fulltime occupation. We expect our students to devote to it not less than 60 hours a week. That doesn't leave much time for a job. Indeed, we feel that a student 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 
by Albert H. Monacelli, '34, President, N.D. Law Assn. 
cannot devote to a job more than 10 or 12 hours a week at the most without damage to his legal education. 
"Of course, law students can work in the summertime. So far as I know everyone of our students has summer emplo>Tnent. At best, though, there is a differential of ^ between $500 and $1000 a year between what a student can earn and the cost of 
^ studpng law at Notre Dame. 
"There is only one answer. If we are to turn out our share of the laivj'ers so urgently needed to meet the momentous challenges of these ominous days — lawyers at once professionally competent and equipped for effective leadership in a world in crisis 
— we must have adequate funds to provide scholarships for promising students." 
Each year the Notre Dame Law .Association conducts a scholarship drive and while its results have been helpful, they have proved inadequate. This year the Dean felt compelled to commit more funds than are available. 
Notre Dame cannot compete for top-quality students with the heavily endowed or state-financed schools. Former Dean Manion, in his letter initiating the current scholarship drive stated: 
^ "I addressed the law student body at Har\-ard recently and talked aftenvard to a dozen brilliant young men who would have preferred to study law at Notre Dame, but could not afford to do so. Har\-ard gave each of them a full scholarship. 
"Like the cost of everything else, the costs of a legal education at Notre Dame and elsewhere have soared since roy days on the law faculty. If the Notre Dame Law School is to get its share of superior students now, it must bid for them with merit scholarships and this will require $50,000 a year." 
One becomes a member of this unique organization by agreeing to donate $100 or more annually to the Law School Scholarship Fund. (This will not be an enforceable obligation and may be abandoned at any time a member chooses.) If you have already contributed to the current scholarship drive which began on July 1, 1960, this letter should not be construed as asking j'ou to give more; it is written only because we thought that as a 
» matter of fairness you should know of the "500" Club and your eligibility for member­
" ship. The pa)Tnents to the "500" Club mil, of course, be deductible for income ta.\ purposes and, in the case of Notre Dame alumni, will count fully as a contribution to the Universit)­Foundation for all purposes. Thus they also qualify under the Ford Foundation offer to add 50 cents to every dollar collected by Notre Dame over a limited period of time. One hundred dollars from you, therefore, ivill mean $150 to the Scholarship Fund. 
The Western World must have sound and brilliant leadership if it is to survive. Lawyers have traditionally furnished much of our leadership in the past. As Dean Manion stated in his letter: 
"Our society is based upon a 'government of laws' which requires the strong leader­ship of conscientious, courageous, and competent lawyers. In times past, our best minds were attacted to the legal profession, precisely because it was the best and most obvious ladder for the continuous achievement of learning and leadership in our legally oi^anized society. In recent years, the proportion of college graduates 
^ going into law schools have been diminishing. One reason for this is implicit in the ' ever increasing labor of the legal profession. Business e-xecutives can pass much of their work and many of their responsibilities over into their business 'organization', but the lawj'er must still struggle, think and act for himself." 
As Mr. John G. Hervey, Advisor to the .American Bar .•\ssociation's Section of Legal Edu­cation and Admissions to the Bar, has said: 
"We are convinced that the preser\'ation of our form of government and the insti­tutions which characterize Western society may well depend on the continued de­velopment of a strong legal profession and that the profession is obligated to make available men of first rank in character, integrity, and competence. Other disciplines, and more especially the sciences, have made heavy inroads upon the pool of superior students who have been interested [heretofore] in the legal profession, and the re­versal of this trend is a serious necessity." 
No school does a better job of training the whole man than Notre Dame. More and better superbly equipped law)-er-leaders are in our own self-interest. 
PERRINE TO SERVE 



N.D. FOUNDATION 
Alfred J. Perrine, Jr., '41, was re­cently assigned as assistant director for the Notre Dame Foundation in New England and areas of New Jersey and New York State not served by the Foundation office in metropolitan New York. 
Since joining the Foundation staff in September of last year, AI has been 
working closely with 
John S. MacCauley, 
'41, whose area now 
includes Ohio, Penn­
sylvania, Virginia, 
West Virginia, Dela­
ware, Maryland, and 
the District of Co­
lumbia. He ^vill base his activity in the New York City Foundation office operated by William F. Murphy, '38. 
Al has an extensive background in charitable fund-raising, having served for the past three years as assistant national campaign director for the American Cancer Society. Previously he had been assistant to the director of the United Cerebral Palsy Asso­ciation. He has also served as assistant to the education director of the Na­tional Sales Executives, business mana­ger for the Psychological Corp., and purchasing agent for City College of New York. 
A native New Yorker, Al attended St. Agnes Academy, College Point, N.Y., before matriculating in Notre Dame's College of Commerce. During World War II he was a Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Navy, servir^ in the Pacific Theater. 
The Notre Dame Foundation, founded in 1947 and now engaged in a three-year $18 million campaign in­cluding an $8 million Memorial Li­brary as part of Notre Dame's "Pro­gram for the Future," is headed by Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C, '45. The addition of Perrine to the staff brings the number of area directors to six. Besides MacCauley and Murphy as­sistant directors include Richard J. Bowes, '38, whose territory extends from Chicago through the Southwest to California; James W. Frick, '51, whose area runs from Indiana south to Florida and Texas; and Allan J. Powers, '51, who serves the Northern States from Michigan to the Pacific Northwest. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 11 





THE 38th ANNUAL UNIVERSAL 
"Personal Responsibility" Selected as Theme of Night to Spotlight Implementation, Through Leadership, of Reports of Catholic Bishops and Eisenhower Com­
mittee on National Goals (1960) 
f) 


CARDINALS. ARCHBISHOPS AND BISHOPS OF THE U. S. 
"The histon' and achievements of America stand as a monument to the personal responsibilit)' of free men. . . . If our future is to be worthy of the past, if the fruit of America's promise is not to wither before it has reached full maturity, our present pre-eminent need is to re­affirm the sense of individual obligation, to place clearly before ourselves the foundation on which personal re­sponsibility rests, to determine the causes of its decay and to seek the means by which it can be revived. . . . 
"The foremost signs of the decline of personal responsi­bility are to be found in the family. . . , 
"Equally conspicuous is the evidence of decline in the sense of responsibility' within our industrial organization and in our general economic life. . . . 
"Although personal responsibilit)' and initiative have been our national characteristics, explaining in large measure our countr>''s progress in human welfare, yet pressures are growing for a constantly greater reliance on the col­lectivit)' rather than on the individual. An inordinate demand for benefits, most easily secured by the pressures of organization, has led an ever-growing number of our people to relinquish their rights and to abdicate their responsibilities. . . . 
"The tendency to delegate excessive responsibilit)' to an organization is discernible also in the realm of interna­tional affairs; Some manifest no sense of personal re­sponsibilit)' in the affairs of the international com­munity. . . . 
72 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 
"Our Holy Father has pointed out the capacity of the indi\'idual to face such problems. . . . 'For socialization is not the result of forces of nature acting according to determination that cannot be changed. It is the work of man, of a free being conscious of and responsible for §) his acts.'. , . 
"What is personal responsibilit)' in the context of man's relation to the world? It presupposes the acceptance of one's dignit)' as a son of God in whatever environment he may be placed and the acknowledgment of binding moral law. It requires the free and deliberate acceptance of one's obligations in the position he occupies — in the O family, in the church, in the corporation, in the labor union, in the community, in the nation, in the family of nations. . . . 
"The social pressures of today's complex life do not excuse from, but rather create a demand for, a greater e-xercise of personal responsibility. . . . 
".. . the social ideals and purposes of Modem Man, due to the declining influence of religious and moral con­\'ictions and the triumph of the material, tend in many subde ways to eflface the sense of responsibility . . . there is an excessive preoccupation with material security at the exf»ense of spiritual well-being. . . . The correction of these basically moral evils and the restoration of a vigorous sense of personal responsibilit)' belong primarily _ to the field of religion. ... " 


NOTRE DAME NIGHT, AprillO 
ED. NOTE: College graduates occupy a particularly strong position and are accordingly under particularly strong obligation to implement the appeal for personal responsibility reflected in the moral and secular approaches to American problems in 1961. The ALUMNUS presents a few selected highlights from both these significant documents, emphasizing their singular common goal. 
THE PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON NATIONAL GOALS 
(HENRY M . WRISTON, Chairman; FRANK PACE, JR., Vice-Chairman) 
"The paramount goal of the United States was set long ing considered opinions on public policy and by active asro. It is to sruard the riarhts of the indi\'idual, to ensure participation in the choice of public representatives. . . . his development, and to enlarge his opportunit)'. It is 
set forth in the Declaration of Independence. . . . "The development of the individual and the nation de­mand that education at every level and in every discipline 
"In the 1960's everv' American is summoned to e.\tra-be strengthened. . . . Greater resources — private, corpo­ordinarj' personal responsibility, sustained effort, and rate, municipal, state and federal — must be mobilized sacrifice. For the nation is in grave danger, threatened by rulers of one-third of mankind, for whom the state is 
"The economic system must be compatible with the politi­everj'thing, the individual significant only as he ser\'es 
cal system. . . . Too great concentrations of economic the state. . . . 
power in corporations, unions, or other organizations can lead to abuses and loss of the productive results of fair "The status of the indi\idual must remain our primary competition. Indi\'iduals should have maximum freedom concern. All our institutions — political, social, and in their choice of Jobs, goods and serNices. . . . Corpora-• 
I economic — must further enhance the dignity of the tions and labor unions must Umit the influence they exert citizen, promote the maximum development of his capa­on the private lives of their members. . . . bilities, stimulate their responsible exercise, and widen the range and effectiveness of opportunities for individual "^Vhether nations will prefer freedom to totalitarianism 
choice. . . . is a vital issue. . . . Our goals abroad are inseparable from our goals at home. ^Ve must strive toward an open and peaceful world by making democracy ever more effective 
"The great ideas that have moved the world have sprung and individual life freer and more rewarding. . . . 
from unfettered human minds. . . . 

"\Ve must bring up our young men and women to be­"The ver)' deepest goals for Americans relate to the lieve in the individual and to act on that belief. There spiritual health of our people. The right of every indi­>are subtle and powerful pressures toward conformity in vidual to seek God and the well-springs of truth, each in the economic, social and political world. . . . his own way, is infinitely precious. We must continue to 
guarantee it, for ours is a spiritually-based societ)'. . . . 
"Respect for the individual means respect for ever)' indi\idual. Ever)' man and woman must have equal "From the first days of our histor)', every American has rights before the law, and an equal opportunity to vote been responsible for his o\vn life and livelihood, and for 
and hold office, to be educated, to get a Job and to be his family's and has shared responability for fus neigh­
promoted when qualified, to buy a home, to participate bor's. .. . It is the resjjonsibility of men and women in fully in community affairs. . . . Primar)' responsibility every walk of life to maintain the highest standards of rests with indi\'iduals. . . . integrity.... A basic goal for each American is to achieve 
a sense of responsibility as broad as his world-wide con­>"The democratic process functions only when the indi­
cerns and as compelling as the dangers and opportunities vidual accepts his full responsibility as a citizen by form-
he confronts." 

Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 13 
The Second Vatican Council and Notre Dame 
by Rev. Robert S. Pelton, '45 
An Associated Press news release of De­cember third reported that the recent his­toric meeting of His Holiness John XXHI with the Archbishop of Canterbury "went well only as far as the threshold of great problems," but left hope for their eventual solution.^ 
The fact of this historic meeting coupled with the planning of the coming ecumenical council should deeply interest Christians. It should ser\-e to sharpen our thinking about the concept of "ecumenical". 
The Meaning of Ecimienical In Christianit)- today the word "ecu­menical" has two specific meanings: 
1. that which represents and/or binds the whole Church which is in communion with the Holy See; 2. that which gives evidence of a longing for and an aware­ness of the need to search for the full unity which Christ intended that His Church should have. The first meaning is Catholic in origin. The second is Prot­estant in origin. The first is present in the phrase "ecumenical council" as used by Catholics. The second is present in the phrase "ecumenical movement" as used by Protestants and adopted by Catholics.^ 
Purpose of the Coming Council 

The meeting of the Holy Father with the Archbishop of Canterbury has deep mean­ing for the "ecumenical movement." At first many thought that reunion hopefully im­plied in such a meeting was the only goal of the proposed Council. Rather the purpose of the coming "ecumenical council" (to be called the second Vatican) will be to have the shepherds of the Church 
.. . 1. . . . provide for the edification of Christian people; 2. (give) .. . an invitation to separated communities to seek unity; 3. to modify the Code of Canon Law.^ 

Thus the purpose of the council will not simply be concerned with ^vays of promot­ing Christian unity. Many other doctrinal and disciplinary points will be studied which can in turn internally prepare the Church as she seeks to heal the breach in Christen­dom. 
The Official Members For a council to be ecumenical, all the bishops who by their office have governing power in the Church must be called. Titular bishops do not have to be called, but they 
usually are. Once present tlicy have a voice in the deliberations. 
It is also the custom to call all Cardinals, abbots and other prelates who have special jurisdiction over a separate territor>' of the Church, the Abbots-General of \-arious mo­nastic groups, and the Superiors-General of religious Orders. All of these are members of the council in the strict sense. They take part in the discussions. They are given the right to vote on doctrinal and disciplinary matters. 
Specialists in theologj- and canon law will be present in an advisorj- role. They will not vote. 
In \'iew of this there will be Holy Cross priests who are Notre Dame graduates who vnW have an official or advisory role in the council. The Superior General of the Con­gregation, the Very Reverend Christopher 
J. O^Toole, will be an ofiicial delegate. So will Archbishop Lawrence L. Graner of Pakistan. Bishop ."Mfred Mendez of .\receibo, Puerto Rico, along with Bishop Theotonius Ganguly of Pakistan, will likewise be invited. (Incidentally these two Notre Dame men were consecrated during the past few months.) The &Iost Reverend Paul J. Halli­nan, the Ordinary of Charleston, South Carolina, a Notre Dame man and diocesan priest, will likewise be an official delegate, as ^vill Most Rev. Loras Lane, Bishop of Rockford; Most Rev. John K. Mussio, Bishop of Steubemille; and Most Rev. Ber­nard J. Topel, Bishop of Spokane. 
Already the following Holy Cross theolo­gians have officially been asked for their counsel in the planning sessions: Monsignor William Doheny, Fathers Edward Heston, and Father Charles Corcoran of Washing­ton.-" 
History of the Councils 

There is a distinct character which has marked various groups of the councils.' The first eight councils were held in the East. They were concerned chiefly with doctrinal matters. The second group of eleven — held in the West — were primarily inter­ested in reform within the Church itself. This middle period ended with the historic Council of Trent. The new thread which began with the first Vatican Council of 1869 has a societal character. It would seem tl]at the current intention is to foster a vital Christian society through the coun­
cil. Thus the Church will be able to bring to bear in a corporate way the spirit of Christ in the modem world. One important means for strengthening this spirit will be «^ through intellectually capable laymen. * 
Possible Points on the Agenda 

There are many questions of interest to Notre Dame men which the council may well consider. For instance, there is a deep­ening commitment to the lay apostolate. In \-icw of this it could be that the Council will provide legislation to increase this role of the layman. The official legislation of the Church does not spell out in detail this role. Yet the apostolate of the laity has burgeoned in recent years. It is relevant here to note that one of the prime movers of the lay apostolate in the United States _ has been Father Louis Putz, C.S.C.,' of the * ' Notre Dame Theolog>- Staff. 
Means will probably be sought to bring ' about a deepening sense of corporate wor­ship among the laity. When the Roman Instruction of the Sacred Congregation of Rites was issued on September 3, 1958, Notre Dame was prepared in many senses. The Summer Liturgical graduate work un­der the late Reverend Michael Mathis, C.S.C., has gained international renown. This has provided a scholarly center for a theoretical and practical study of the life of worship. This should have a strong in­fluence upon the University Community and its graduates. Notre Dame is thus playing • ) its part here in this growing sense of cor­porate worship. 
The importance of ecumenical theology is becoming increasingly evident. The Church will need to develop a corps of men deeply conversant with non-Catholic theology. They in turn can aid the laity in developing the attitudes necessary in a modem pluralistic society. Providentially the United States may well have a key role in working out a sound doctrinal formula for the approach to such questions. Notre Dame should be in the midst of this. 
.•\t Notre Dame right now wc do hold 3) some private conversations with non-Catho­lic theologians in order to approach the threshold of understanding. 
The Formal Sessions . The twenty-first ecumenical council will ' very likely open formally on January 25, 1962. This is the feast of the Conversion of St. Paul. It is the last of eight days of prayer which are devoted each year to seek­ing unity in Christendom. The official at­tendance should be over 1800. The language used will be Latin. Provisions — like those of the United Nations — will be made for the members of those Rites which do not fj\ use Latin. 
Notre Dame Men and 
Prayer for the Council 

That God's will may be completely car­ried out, all of us should pray deeply for the success of the council. In a special way our prayers during 1961 should be for this in­tention. The world sorely needs a united Christendom today. As Catholic university graduates we can contribute strongly to this end. 
I should like to conclude with the official prayer for the success of the council. 
O Divine Spirit who, sent by the Father <1) 
in the name of Jesus, is present in the 
Church and guides it infallibly, benignly 
H Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 
^ pour out Your gifts, we pray, upon the " ecumenical council. 
Grant that abundant fruits may come from this council; that the light and force of the Gospel may be increasingly propagated in the society of man; that Catholic religious and fer\*ent missionary works may flourish with increased vigor; that a more profound knowledge of the teaching of the Church may be attained and that Christian customs may achieve salutar)- progress. 
O sweet Guest of the Soul, make our minds firm in the truth and dispose our 

• hearts to obedience, so that what is de­cided by the council may be welcomed with sincere respect and put into practice with a ready will. 
We also pray to You for those sheep who do not belong to the one sheepfold of Christ, so that they too may ultimately achieve unity under the government of one single Shepherd and glory in the Christian name. 
Renew Your wonders in our time, as though for a new Pentecost, and grant that the Holy Church, preser\'ing unan­

0 imous and continuous prayer, together with Mar)', the mother of Jesus, and also under the guidance of St. Peter, may increase the reign of the Divine Saviour, the reign of truth and justice, ,the reign of love and peace. .Amen." 
1 The South Bend Tribune, p. 2, Dec. 3, 1960. 
- Tlioralf T. Thiclcn, What is an Ecumenical 

Council} Xeu-man, 1960, xvi and xvii. 3 Ibid, p. 121. 4 .-Vnrlibtsliop Grancr is n member of the Central 
Commission. Monsignor Dohency is a member of the Commission on the Discipline of the Sacra­ments. Fathers Hcston and Corcoran arc membeis of the Commission on Religious Orders. 
s;6iV, p. 114. 9 ^ Acta Apoitolica Sedis, quoted in The Witness (Dnbuquc, la., Jantiary 7, IS60). 
A Suggested Bibliography Bouyer, L. The Spirit and Forms of Prot­estantism. Trans, by A. V. Litdedale. Westminster, Md. Neivman Press, 1956. Brown, R. & G. Weigel, S.J., An American Dialogue. Doubleday & Co. Inc., Gar­den City, New York, I960. Hanahoe, E. Catholic Ecumenism. Washing­ton, D.C. Catholic Universit)- Press, 1953. Jedin, H. Ecumenical Councils in the Cath­olic Church. New York. Herder and Herder, 1960. John, XXIII, Pope. On Truth, Unity and Peace (encyclical letter of June 29, 1959). New York. America Press, 1959. Kane, J. Catholic — Protestant Conflicts in America. Chicago. Regnery, 1955. Tavard, G. The Catholic Approach to Prot­estantism. New York. Harper and Bros., 1955. Thielen, T. What is an Ecumenical Coun­cil? Westminster, Md. Newman Press, 1960. 
Periodicals .•It — ONE — ment. Monastery of the Atonement, Washington, D.C. Unitas. Gregorian University, Rome (Eng. ed.: Graymoor Press, Peekskill, N.Y.) 



MAN and the MOMENT 
By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '41 
A university education must be di­rected chiefly to inculcate the intel­lectual virtues. For anyone to hold that it is no business at all for a university to even contribute to the formation of moral virtues is in error. False think­ing about values at high levels can topple all standards. There are those, who, under the pretense of free speech or liberty, care not at all for what the future holds. Spiritual values have a place in all of life and should have life in all of us. Read these words of a college president spoken over thirty years ago: 
"College is not merely a school; it is a life. It is a school-life, of course, and the major emphasis, I affirm, is, as it ought to be, on study. . . . There are more things in heaven and earth — in the college heaven and earth, for it is a combination of the two — than are dreamed of in the philosophy of foundations for the ad\*ancement of college statistics. Man is not all mind; he is a creature of flesh and blood; he has a heart, and the heart, too, must 
. be schooled in a curriculum which life itself supplies in those four years crowd­ed with wonder which make up the college career of the student today. There are intangible realities, there are imponderable values of which your carefullest statistician never in the na­ture of things can take account. Two and two make four, and the college student will learn that lesson through whatever complexities the formula may be extended. But there is another math­ematics, a madder, wilder learning, more divine and nearer to the source of truth. It is that lesson which the heart leams of life itself — it is honor, it is chivalry, it is Io>-alty, it is love; it is dedication and consecration of self to an ideal and a cause. ... " 

A poet-priest and former president of Notre Dame, Father Charles O'Don­nell, C.S.C, is the man who put tlie fire into those words. 
Strong words they are as tliey point to the fact that those who had the privilege of higher education also have the obligation of being dedicated and consecrated to high ideals and honor­able causes. 
In what way did your school help you toward things spiritual? Notre 
Notre 

Dame is unique in the many blessings 
it offers to her sons. The chapel in 
each hall has always been the proving 
ground of a boy about to be a man. 
No easy thing is it to be on deck each 
day and attend Holy Mass. A thousand 
e.\cuses and a tired body with sleepy 
eyes can dangle thoughts of other 
things to do. Many of you can now 
look back with great joy to those days 
in the chapel. Others of you may regret 
your easy acceptance of thoughts that 
dangled. All of us, I'm sure, wish we 
had done more. It is so easy, in re­
trospect, to hope this way. We can see 
what splendid chances we had to build 
a storehouse of grace and prayer. 
It is never so easy once we leave 

the campus to get to Mass and Com­
munion. Now we know. Just to push 
a buzzer and be able "to hit the box!" 
Tliose days are gone. And the little red 
vigil lamp near the altar — gone, too. 
How many of those lights bum by day 
and night across the campus! Close 
your eyes and rerun a few stills, a few 
pictures in motion. See the halk you 
lived in. Hear again the loud shouts as 
a door slams and a radio blares. A 
would-be singer has volume without 
quality. And downstairs, off to the side, 
away from all the din of college rest­
lessness, is the quiet of your chapel. 
Rest a while. Dreams you once dream­
ed when you were young have gone the 
way of most dreams to the waking. 
The importance of the chapel in your life is only one of the many spir­itual benefits. Next time we shall re­view a few other opportunities. You remember what they are. For the pres­ent — you are the man and the mo­ment is now. We all had heights we hoped to climb. We all gave birth to great ambitions. And now, thank God, we live with what is in our ranga 
Your parish Church is your chapel from the past Trying to recapture the past is not too difficult if we take from the present all that we can. 
A seed is jast as huge a world 
As any ball the sun has hurled. 
There is, by God's swift reckoning, 
A universe in everything. 

Dame Alumnus, March-Apr^, 1961 15 



THE FIGHTING IRISH 
defense of a tradition 
{Reprinted from the Notre Dame 
TH E SCHOLASTIC'S column "Splinters from the Press Box" last week carried what purported to be an explanation of the origin of the expression "Fighting Irish" as applied to the representatives of Notre Dame in the field of sports. Commenting upon an editorial in the Indianapolis News, the writer of the column placed the nickname as arising from an incident in the Michigan-Notre Dame game of 1909, and credited it to an alert newspaper correspondent. 
The fact is, the expression derives its origin from no such casual occurrence and antedates 1909 by many years. The spirit out of which it grew was typical neither of any one time, nor any one place in this countrj-. This spirit manifested itself often in open insult, not infrequently in destruction of property and almost in­\'ariably in social ostracism. Seared upon the pages of our history arc examples of that spirit. Its concentration here in a name gave us a hallowed tradition. Indeed opposition to the founding of a Cath­olic institution in these parts found concrete expression in many ways. One of these still e-xists in the local torni as a building which, intended for a college, is now part of a factor)-, and an adjoining street which is called "College." 
From the ver>- beginning games played an important part in the life of the students at Notre Dame. The natural impulse was to seek outside competition. At first this was reluctantly given. The events themselves were not always characterized by pleasant­ness. The receptions accorded did not always represent what we have come to know as sportsmanship. .Advance notices referred to the "Notre Dame Catholics," the "Notre Dame Irish." 
Even then, as now, the terms were not inclusive of the men on the teams. Dimmick, Philbroofc, and Edwards, to mention only a few, were not Catholics. Eggeman, Ncizer, Miller, Davila, among many others, were not of Irish blood. In point of fact, "Catholic" and "Irish" in those farofi' days — not to speak of more recent ones —^were s>Tion)-mous, and either one stood for something which, to say the least, should be avoided. So with ribald jest, derisive taunt, and insulting phrase of all they held most sacred would the men be greeted on station platforms, in hotel lobbies, from the sidewalks and even from the side lines. 
Scholastic of April 7, 1933) 
Recognition came slowly and, strange irony, from afar. The qualifier 'Fighting* quite naturally was prefixed to 'Irish' and so it remained. The epithet of opprobrium to one generation be­came one of distinction to the next. The link between them all but unconsciously melted away. It was reforged by a new set of circumstances. 
The war and post-war hysteria among other things centered upon the h>'phenated American. Attempts were even made to tone down recorded historj-. Bunker Hill, Lexington, Ticonderoga hence­forth should be s}'niboIs of an unfortunate misunderstanding to be condoned instead of symbols of a principle to be safeguarded. Catholics in particular were suspect. The frenzies that followed down to our own day need no recounting here. "Fighting Irish," | thought some, should be dropped. Not quite so simply, however, is the course of history or of tradition to be changed. The Ameri­canism of Notre Dame needs no such subterfuge. 
The last decade might well be termed the era of slogans. Ad­vertising experts stayed up nights to invent them. Manufacturers arranged contests to discover them. Sports \vriters tapped them out on the keys. Nor was Notre Dame immune. Dictionaries were bereft of adjectives to characterize the prowess of her men and, lo, there came forth the "Wanderers," the "Vikings," the "Nomads," the "Ramblers," and a multitude of others that had their brief vogue in the editorial rooms where they originated. Their justi­fication was the fact that Notre Dame travelled so much, and that "Fighting Irish" was no longer appropriate since so many racial strains now composed her teams. We hope to have shown ^ that the first was a contributing factor to the original name and " the second as a determining element in the makeup of the teams never had any foundation in fact. 
It has been well said that a people without traditions is al­ready decadent. It is also true of institutions. No one can con­sciously sit down and say "let us create a tradition." It is some­thing that unconsciously identifies itself, grows out of what is adequately described as the genius of a people. As such it is a sacred thing. To consciously ignore it partakes of the nature of a betrayal. Because of this we treasure and defend "Fighting Irish." 
Law School 

(Continued from page 10) versit)' Law Center, Washington 1, D. C : Professor Wallace McClure, World Rule of Law Center, Duke Universit\-, Dur­ham, N. Car.; Professor Robert R. Bowie, Har\-ard Univcrsitj-, Cambridge 38, Mass. 
Professor Wagner 

Professor W. J. Wagner has been granted a leave of absence for the first semester of next year to join a small group of Inter­national legal scholars working on an im­portant project, at Cornell. The statute of the International Court of Justice and the constitution and laws of certain countries permit, and sometimes require, that, in de­ciding controversies, judges shall apply "general principles of law recognized by civilized nations." No study has ever been undertaken, however, to ascertain what these principles are. The group of scholars working at Cornell, which Professor Wagner will join, has undertaken to remedy this situation. 
Professor Wagner spent the academic year 1959-60 in France on a Fulbright lectureship. 
Legal History 

The Midwest Conference of the .Ameri­can Society for Legal Histor>- will meet at the Notre Dame Law School on Saturday, March 18. .\mong those appearing on the program vnW be Professors Francis A. Allen and Philip B. Kuriand of the University of Chicago Law School, Professor Nathaniel L. Nathanson of Northwestern Universitj' Law School and Professor Roger P. Peters m of the Notre Dame Law School. 
Editorial 
(Continued from page 2) 

to share this new stature of Notre Dame. Forget the funds and figures of the past. Think in terms of abilitj' and hope and need. Provision wll be made for easy and frequent participa­tioUj so that you may multiply your already sincerely appreciated record of m strength in the development of Notre Dame, 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 
Dr. Doole/s Last Letter to Notre Dame 
Dr. Thomas A. Dooley, '48, died on the evening of Januar>- 18 in a New York hospital. Five days before his death he was \-isited by Father Hesburgh, who relayed his request for prayers back to the Notre Dame campus. "The Splendid .American" died just as the Notre Dame student body had completed three days of prayer in his behalf. A Solemn Mass of Requiem was celebrated for him January 20 in Sacred Heart Church. 
In December Father Hesburgh had received a letter from Hong Kong, where Tom Dooley had been hospitalized for a recurrence of cancer that had attacked his spine. An eloquent expression of the faith that had overcome his terrible suffering and prompted his labors in Southeast Asia, a moving tribute to his beloved Notre Dame, the letter was distributed by Associated Press and printed throughout the world after Dooley's death. It is repeated here for the record: 
Hong Kong, December 2, 1960 
I Dear Father Hesburgh, 
They've got me down. Flat on the back . . . ivith 
plaster, sand bags and hot water bottles. It took the last 
three instruments to do it however. I've contrived a way 
of pumping the bed up a bit so that, with a long reach, I 
can get to my typewriter . . . my mind . . . my brain . . . 
I my fingers. 
• Two things prompt this note to you, sir. The first is that I whenever my cancer acts up . . . and it is certainly "acting i up" now, I turn inward a bit. Less do I think of my hospi­\ tals around the world, or of 94 doctors, fund raising and i the like. More do I think of one divine Doctor, and my I ozvn personal fund of grace. Is it enough? 
\ It has become pretty definite that the cancer has spread > to the lumbar vertebrae, accounting for all the back prob-l lems over the last two months. I have monstrous phantoms > . . . as all men do. But I try to exorcise them with all the 
• fury of the Middle Ages. And inside and outside the zvind '9 blows. 
I But when the time comes, like now, then the storm s around me does not matter. The winds within me do not \ matter. Nothing human or earthly can touch me. A wilder I storm of peace gathers in my heart. What seems unpossess-I able, I can possess. What seems unfathomable, I fathom. I What is unutterable, I can utter. Because I can pray. I '< can communicate. How do people endure anything on \ earth if they cannot have God? 
i I realize the external symbols that surround one when i he prays arc not important. The stark wooden cross on an ^ altar of boxes in Haiphong with a tortured priest . . . the 
-magnificence of the Sacred Heart Bernini altar . . . they are 
•i essentially the same. Both are symbols. It is the Something % else there that counts. 
f But just now . . . and just so many times, how I long 'i for the Grotto. Away from the Grotto, Dooley just prays. J" But at the Grotto, especially now when there must be snow s everywhere and the lake is ice glass and that triangular § fountain on the left is frozen solid and all the priests are :S bundled in their too-large, too-long old black coats and the if students wear snow boots . . . if I could go to the Grotto :| 710W, then I think I could sijig inside. I could be full of i^ faith and poetry and loveliness and know more beauty, Ij tenderness and compassion. This is soggy sentimentalism, ;S / kjiow. Cold prayers from a hospital bed are just as pleas­
ing to God as more youthful prayers from a Grotto on the lid of 7iight. 
But like telling a mother in labor, "It's okay, millions have endured the labor pains and survived happy . . . you will too." It's consoling . . . but doesn't lessen the pain. Accordingly, knowing prayers from here are just as good as from the Grotto doesn't lessen my gnazuing, yearning passion to be there. 
I don't mean to ramble. Yes, I do. 
The second reason I zvrite to you just now is that I have in front of me the Notre Dame ALUMNUS of September, 1960. And herein is a story. This is a Chinese hospital run by a Chinese division of the Sisters of Charity (I think). Though my doctors are British, the hospital is as Chinese as Shark's Fin Soup. Every orderly, corpsman, nurse and nun knozu of my zvork in Asia, and each has taken it upon themselves to personally "give" to the man they feel has given to their Asia. As a consequence, I'm a bit smothered in tender, loving care. 
With a triumphant smile this morning, one of the nuns brought me some American magazines (which are limp with age and zvhich I must hold horizontal above my head to read • . .) An old National Geographic, two older Times, and that unfortunate edition of Life . . . and with these, a copy of the Notre Dame ALUMNUS. How did it ever get here? 
So Father Hesburgh, Notre Dame is twice on my mind . . . and always in my heart. That Grotto is the rock to which my life is anchored. Do the students ever appreciate what they have, while they have it? I know I never did. Spent most of my time being angry at the clergy at school . . . 10 p.m. bed check, absurd for a 19 year old veteran, etc., etc., etc. 
Won' take any more of your time, did just want to com­municate for a moment, and again offer my thanks to my beloved Notre Dame. Though I lack a certain buoyancy in my bones just now, I lack none in my spirit. I must return to the States very soon, and I hope to sneak into that Grotto . . . before the snow has melted. 
My best zvishes to the students, regards to the faculty, and respects to you. Very sincerely. 
%M 2>Mf/e^ 

Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 17 
CALENDAR 

Regularly scheduled club meetings that have been reported to the Alumni Office arc as follows: 
BUFFALO—First Tuesday of cvcr>- month at 8:30 p.m.. Hotel Sheraton, 715 Dela­ware Ave., Buffalo, N.Y. In addition, a table marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo" is rcser\-cd for lunch at K. of C , 506 Delaware Ave., Buffalo, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 
CEDAR RAPIDS—Communion Breakfast Meeting, fourth Sunday of even months: 8K)0 a.m. Mass at alternating parishes; 
9:00 breakfast meeting at Bishops. 

CENTRAL OHIO—First Monday (night) of ever\* month, Junior Rose Room, Vir­ginm Hotel, Columbus, Ohio. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—Second Wed­nesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High St., Perth Amboy. 
DEC.A.TUR — Monthly luncheons, fourth Wednesday of even-- month at Elks Club, Decatur, III. 
DETROIT^First Monday of each month, luncheon, at 12 noon. Ye Olde AVa\Tie Club, 1033 Wa>*ne St. 
ERIE—^First Friday dinner meeting with wives. Antler's Restaurant, 7:00 p.m., Sept. thru June, Erie, Pa. 
FORT L.\UDERDALE—Second Thursday of each month, dinner at 7:30 p.m.. Gov­ernor's Club Hotel, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
INDIAN.\POLIS — Evcr>' Thursday noon at the Indianapolis Bar Association, 33 North Pennsyl\*ania St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
KANSAS CITY—Call Plaza 3-2160. 
MIAMI—Call Jim Smith (FR 7-2341) or Bob Probst (FR 4-0507) for time and lo­cation of meetings. 
PHILADELPHIA—Second Tuesday of each month (night) at the Philopatrian Club. 
PITTSBURGH —Weekly luncheon at the Variety' Club, Thursday, in the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, 12 noon. 
ROCHESTER — Monthly luncheon, first Monday, at 12:15 p.m., Home Dair>*, 111 East Main, second floor. 
ROME—Open House daily, Palazzo Bran­caccio. Largo Brancaccio 82, ph. 730002. Ask for Vince McAloon, secretary*. 
ST. LOUIS—Monthly luncheon, stag, 12 noon. Key Club in Hotel Jefferson, St. Louis, Mo., second Monday. 
SOUTHWESTERN WISCONSIN — First Friday of every' month, noon luncheon get-together at the Racine Elks Club. 
TERRE HAUTE — Third Thursday of every- month, 7:30 p.m. Meeting at the Terre Haute House. 
WASHINGTON — Weekly luncheon, each Tuesday, 12 noon. Touchdown Club, 1414 I Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 
WILKES-B.-\RRE—First Tuesday of cver>' month, luncheon meeting, 12:15 p.m., in the main dining room. Hotel Sterling. 
Alabama 
Our Club observed Universal Xolrc Dame Com­
munion Sunday on December lllh at St. Paul's 
Co-Catliedral m Birmingham. Monsignor WIL­
LIAM R. HOUCK, Principal of John Carroll High 
School in Birmingham, spoke to the group of 21 
at a breakfast meeting following the Mass and 
Holy Communion, and delivered an enlightening 
talk on ecumenical councils and. in particular, on 
the one to be held soon in Rome. 
Our attendance, which is normally larger than 
this, was reduced because a number of our grads 
bad to report for National Guard duty this week­
end. However, we're pleased with the splendid 
participation in the club and arc looking for^rard 
to a number of enjoyable gatherings and meetings 
in 1951. 
The next scheduled meeting for the Alabama 
Club will be for the observance of Universal Notre 
Dame Xight. 
—TOM BOEHLING, '52 


Baltimore 
Xotrc Dame Communion Sunday was obser\'ed by 70 Club members and their families on Dec. 11. JACK OWENS was chairman of the event, a suc­cess in spite of the weallier. On the evening of Feb. 24 the Notre Dame Club of Baltimore spon­sored its first Tlieatre Party in several years. A benefit performance of the Vagabonds* production of "The Time of the Cuckoo" was held for the purpose of bolstering Club finances. Tiie play, a comedy about an .American spinster in Venice, originally starred Shirle>' Booth on Broadway. A 200-scat capacity was sold at $2 per ticket. Al­though he did not appear in the cast this time, FRANKLYN C. HOCHREITER was chainnan of ihc benefit. TIic party was planned at a busi­ness meeting of the executive commiUcc on Janu­arv- 17 at the home of President FRxVXK MUR­PHY. Among the planners were JUDGE GIL PRENDERGAST, GREG HALPIN, JIM MUR­RAY, and FRr\NK ROCHREITER plus officers FILVXK MURPHY, DAN SULLIVAN and BILL GAUDREAU. REV. JAMES a DONAHUE, su­perintendent of parochial schools in Baltimore, u-as scheduled to be the guest speaker at a noon luncheon meeting on Xfarch 14. GREG HALPIN is heading up the nominating committee for next year's officers, and a committee under JUDGE PRENDERGAST is examining the constitution for possible reforms. 

Berkshire County 
Tlirec activities were held this fall in the Berk­shlrcs. A farewell cocktail partv for Mar>- Ann and JIM ROEMER at President JIM O'BRIEN'S home. Jim Roemer, of the South Bend Roemers, was the alumnus responsible for the establishing of the local club. Tliose attending presented them with an engnn-ed serving Iray, Jim is with the Contracts Dept. of Lockheed Missile and Space Division and is now at their Sunn>-\-aIe, Calif., location. 
Tlie first corporate Communion and Breakfast XMis held December 11 at the Jesuit Failicrs' Novi­tiate, Lenox, Mass. DAVE KLINE chaired the committee, assisted by GEORGE and ROBERT NESBITT, and FRANK KELLY. 
A fine turnout of thirty alumni and sons greeted our new chaplain, REV. CHARLES VAN DUREN, rector of Dehon Seminar^*, Great Barrington. 
Club treasurer, ED REtVGAN, headed a com­mittee of JIM O'BRIEN, FRANK LINEHAN, and ROBERT KELLY for our participation in the Pittficld Catholic Youth Centers* College Informa­tion Night. The committee v*-as ably assisted by JIM O'BRIEN, JR., a sophomore at school. 
BILL FLAHERTY has been named to scrxe as diairman of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
—FR.\NK LINEHAN, '45 


Boston 
Tlie Boston Club obscncd Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday on December 11, 1960, by 
attending Mass at Blessed Sacrament Chapel. Holy Cross Cathedra!. Our cJiapIain. RT. REV. COR­NELIUS J. DONOV.\N, '09 , was celebrant. Breakfast at Red Coach Grille followed the Mass with Hon. John .X. Volpe, K.M., newly elected governor of the Commonwealth, as principal speak­er. Governor Volpe encouraged Notre Dame men to take an active part in their local government where leadership is so essential. REV. RICH.\RD 
H. SULLIV^VN, C.S.C., '34, president ot Stone-{ hill College, gave an interesting report on the Ecumenical Coundl. Other guests included REV. JAMES LOWERY, CS.C, *37; RT. REV. C. J. DONOVAN, '09; and D.VNIEL MARR, President 
W. E. DACEY, JR., '49, introduced ROBERT L. M.\RR, 'o&, breakfast cliairman, who turned in a top-notcli performance as toastmaster. Bob was assisted bv four committee members: W'lLLIAM 
J. O'BRIEN, '44; RICHARD T. COLEMAN. '58; JAMES W. MURPHY, '56; and RICHARD AVAL­WOOD, '58. 
Newcomers residing in the Hub temporarily or 
permanently arc asked to notify the dub secretary 
of their residence here and their names will be 
added to our mailing list. Tlie Club address is 
Box 887, Boston 3, Masi. 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Boston extended SJTH­
pathy to the family of FRED SOLARI, JR., '36, 
who died on Christmas day following injuries re-g 
ceived in an automobile accident on December 23, * 
I960. Fred w:is a tnic blue Notre Dame man in 
every ^V3.\\ and the respect with whicli he vnis 
held by his fellow citizens was shown by the large 
numbers who visited the funeral parlor and the 
Requiem Mass at his parish church where 16 
members of the clergy headed bv our Chaplain, 
RT. REV. a J. DONOVAN, '09, were in attend­
ance. Fred leaves his wife, Cora, four daughters 
and a son. His Hobomock Inn in Pembroke vv*as 
a gourmet's delight famed for good food and genial 
hospitality. 
REV. FRANCIS BOLAND, CS.C, second 
president of Stonchill College, (1950-1955) and 
former Dean of College of Arts and letters at 
Notre Dame and a native of Everett, Mass., died 
in Veterans Hospital, New York City, on Dec 31, 
1960. He wTis buried in the Community Cemeter>* 
on the beautiful campus of the college he helped % 
to found. The Club extends to his sur\-ivors and 
fclloiv- religious profound s>Tnpathy and prayers. 
Our standard bearer, BILL DACEY, '49, attend­
ed the Club Presidents Conference sponsored by 
the National Alumni .Association held on the cam­
pus January 20-22, 1961. 
Spread the fame of Noire Dame, and teU Mlow alumni and friends to follm%' your own good ex­ample and contributed real big to the Foundation so that the University can be assured of sufficient funds to give the go ahead sign for construction of the finest Cathoh'c Iibrar>' in the entire world. 
—TIM TOOMEY, Seo". 


BufFalo 
After Xolrc Dame Communion Sunday the annual Noire Dame Chrislmas Dance, jointly sponsored by ^ the Buffalo alumni, campus clubbers and alum-— wives, w'as held in the Hotel Statler Hilton's Ter­race Room on December 30, with music by the Tony Camei-ale orchestra. Student organizers in­cluded HANK BURNS, JR., general cowAairman; President PETER J. CROTTY, JR., ot the Cam­pus Club, honorary- reception chairman; and THO.MAS RYAN, ticket co-chairman. General diairmen for the altunni were Mr. and ifrs. HARRY QUINN. Reception committee chairmen were Mr. and Mrs. RICH.\RD E. LEOUS; hon­orary chairmen, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN ENDERS, JR., >tr. and Mrs. ANTHOXV C. ROCCO; com­mittee, ^fr. and Mrs. CLEMENT CROU'E, Mr. and Mrs. HENRY L. BURNS, Mr. and Mrs. HENRY J. BALLING, SR., Mr. and Xfrs. R.ALPH 
F. ELSE, Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM P. DOWDALL, Mr. and Mrs. CYRIL J. RICKARD, Mr. and Mrs. ^VILLIAM B. LAWXESS, Xfr. and Mrs. EUGENE 
C. COYLE, Mr. and Xfrs. JAMES A. XIOULDER. ^ Other committee chairmen were: Xfr. and Xfrs. JOSEPH WATSON, decorations; Xfr. and Xfrs. JAMES AUSTIN, publicity; Xfr. and Xfrs. DON­
IS Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 
A ALD JACOB!, music; Mr. and Mrs. PAUL CAR­

" ROLL, program. The tabic reservations committee under Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL WALKOWIAK included .Mr. and Mrs, JOHN CONSIDINE, .Mr. and .Mrs. EDWARD FLANIGAN, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN MULL/VNE, Mr. and Mrs. FR^VNK FOR­GIONE. Ticket workers, besides those above, un­der Mr. and Mn. JACK AfcMAHON Included WILLLVW DOWDALL, JOHN FAN'NING* RICH­ARD WAGNER, GARY AX'EBSTER and, with their wives, PAUL BALLING, PAUL BESSER. PAUL a\RROLL, WILLIAM a\SS, JAMES CI^VUSS, JAAfES DOSOGHUE, FR^\NCIS GAGLIONE, GER/\LD KLEE, RICHARD KLEE, JACK L.\­VIGNE. DONALD MAHONEY, EUGENE .XHL­LER. JOHN MULL.\NE, PATRICK NEVILLE, EUGENE O'CONXER, R.\\*MOND RUSEK, THO.MAS SCHAEFER, and JEROME TERHAAR. 
The Januar>' 10 meeting at the Hotel Leno.*; 
featured reports on the Communion Breakfast and 

• dance, plus plans for the Foundation Drive, Basket­ball Party, Club Directory, and Retreat. The First Friday Club met February' 3 at the Knights of Columbus, and on Feb. 4 the N.D.-Canisius basketball game was followed by a cocktail party at the Hotel Leno.^c. The annual retreat was plan­ned for the weekend of ^farch 17-19 at the Colum­ban Retreat House, Derby, and Universal Notre Dame Night was announced for April 4, with REV- THOMAS J. O'DO.VNELL, C.S.C., as guest speaker. 
Burlington 
Tlie first fall meeting of the Southeast Iowa 
N.D. Club was held at the home of FR/\NK DE­L.\NEY. Dorothy and JACK DAILEY, '27. were elected president. Mar>- K. and FRfVNK DE­LANEY and Lucy and ED RILEY were elected  5ecrctar>" and treasurer, respectively. The Dailcys showed pictures of their recent European trip. Tlieir son, Jim, completed his militar>' ser\'ice in Europe and joined them for a delightful trip. 
The Burlington Golf Club was the setting for our October meeting hosted by our nc«* president, JACK DAILEY. A small group attended. 
In November, Dorothy and ED RILEY were our genial hosts for a buITet dinner. 
The December meeting ^\'as at the home of Jane and DICK DEL,\NEY. Attending were the VERNON BRINKS, JACK DAILEYS, JOE RIDGES, ED DAILEYS, ED RILEYS, ROL.\ND MARTELS and JOHN MUSSOLINO. John in­formed our group he Is being transferred to Pitts­burgh. Pa. Our next mcctins ""as held at the 
. Burlington Golf Club. Marv- and ROLrVND iLAR-TEL were our host and hostess. • —{Mr. and .Mrs.) FR^\NK DEL.\NEY, JR., Scc>-. 

Calumet Region 
Following a aucccssful Christmas dinner dance in VogePs restaurant at Whiting, members pointed for the annual sports stag February 6 at Ccsarc Battisti Hall in East Chicago. Chairman TONY KUHc\RICH signed his brother Joe, head football coach, as guest speaker. 
President BEN DANKO pointed out that both the Christmas dance and the sports stag would help to swell the newly established scliolarship fund. About 75 couples attended the holiday affair, under the chairmanship of D,\VE OGREN. Four tickets to "Flower Drum Song," a musical play­ing in Chicago, were drawn for to start the scliolarship fund, whose chairman is JIM GLENN. About 400 alumni and friends of the university were on hand to greet Coach Kuharich and several members of his staff at the sports stag. Two pairs of season tickets to next fall's home games and a football autographed by the coach and players were awarded, with proceeds going to the scholarship fund. 
Secretary BOB WELSH, JR., needed a little help for this issue, haWng taken off with his father for a three-month tour of Europe, Asia and Africa. Ifc promises something like a stuffed elephant for a door prize at the "Universal Notre Dame Night" dinner xXpril 10. 
—AUSTIN BOYLE 

Canton 
December and Januarv* were busy months for the Canton (Ohio) Club. 
The first big affair on the club agenda was the obsen-ancc of Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, Dec 11. Forty men received Holy Com­munion in a body at St. Joseph's Church and then moved to the school cafeteria for breakfast 5er^•cd by the women of the parish. 
Highlights of the program which followed the breakfast were the presentation of a certificate of achievement to Xorman J. Nicola, co-captain of the local Central Catholic High School football team and election of new club officers. 
Young Nicola, an all-city and .-Vssociatcd Press .•Ml-Ohio first team center selection, was praised for his leadership on the football team and in the classroom where he maintains one of the top ai'crage5 m his class and is a member of tlic Na­tional Honor Society. 
A similar award was made last year to his coach, John McVay. Coach McVay and the youth's father, George Nicola, were honored guests aC the affair. 
The certificate was presented by J.-VMES F. WEBER, '57, who stepped down following the meeting as president of the club. 
.Vew officers are: president, EDWARD A. At CHUGA, '55, with the dealer sales division i Dicbold, Inc.; vice-president, THOAUS J. SE/ Mf\N, *53, district manager of the Connectia Mutual Life Insurance Co., who may be remen bered for his football prowess; and secretary treasurer, CHARLES N. KOEHLER, EE '5: with the firm of Ballard & Mayfield Consultin Engineers. 
Mr. Machuga had been secretar>--trcasurcr c the club the last three years. Stepping down wit Mr. ^Vebcr was the former vice-president, ROB ERT A. RICHARD, '56. Both men now wil scrv'c on the board of advisors. 
The club's major activity of the year — th annual Holiday Ball — u-as held Dec. 29 at th Oncsto Hotel and was a rousing success. Profit were added to the scholarship fund which is ex pccted to be activated soon in the form of a gran to a top local student. 
The new and old club presidents, Machuga ant ^V'ebcr, and the net*' secrctarj--trcasurer, Koehler were on hand Jan. 5 at Central Catholic Higl School representing N.D. at the Catholic Collegi Night program. 
N.D. u-as one of 31 Catholic institutions inxitec by the school to explain Its program to junior anc senior students and their parents. It might EM noted that the N.D. representatives far outshone their competitors In the number of students anc parents talked to. Ten boys from this area wen accepted as freshmen at the university last Sep­tember. 
The club plans to begin making arrangemcnta for the Universal N.D. night ob5eri*ance very soon. 
—JA.MES n^EBER, '57 

Central New Jersey 
President JOE SEPKOSKI was forced to forego 3 trip to the Club Presidents Council on the cam­pus in January, The weather and the rail strike made a trip impossible. 
To break up the monotony of the winter months the Central New Jersey Club held a cocktail party on February 5 at Oak Hills Afanor In Metuchen. JACK MULLEN was in charge. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was announced for April 15 at the Park Hotel, Plalnfield, with Coach HUGH DEVORE as guest speaker. BOB ARRIX is chairman of the event. 


Chattanooga 
TIic Notre Dame Club of Chattanooga gathered for the Annual Communion Sunday Breakfast on December 11 at the St. Augustine's Church on Signal Mountain. Breakfast «-as screed at the 

PHILADELPHIA—Annual Club Communion Breakfast featured a talk on the forthcoming Ecumenical Council by Rev. Hugh Noonan 
of Immaculata College. Assbtant football coach Brad Lynn represented the University. 
Notre Dame Alummis, March-April, 1961 19 
Alexioa Brothers Home on Signal Mountain. Guest speaker for the event « ^ the REV. WILLUM B. GRANNIS, pastor of St. Augustine's, who spoke on "Tlie Ecumenical Council," Those present ucrc the HERB {BUDDY) HAILES, TOM OWENS, JIM BURKHARTS, FRANK DELANEYS. JERRY EVARTS, MATT McINERNYS, ED DAVISES, CHRIS REHKOPFS, HANK MADDENS and Miss Frances Haile-
HERB HATLE was present at the Club Presi­dents Council on the campus in laic January. 
—HENRY T. MADDEN, '51. Sco*. 



Chicago 
Chicago's newspapers called the Kuutc Rockne 
Night Dinner, held Nov. 30, 1960, in the main 
dining room of llie Illinois Athletic Club, the 
greatest Notre Dame sports gathering in the his-
tor>- of Chicago, and no one in the audience of 
375 N.D. alumni and friends questioned the acco­
lades. 
Athletic Director ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE of 
Notre Dame, \v\io u-as one of the featured speak­
ers on the program, said that he could not recall 
a time when so many great names from Notre 
Dame football hlstorj- had been together at one 
time. 
Tbe immortal Four Horsemen of Notre Dame— 
HARRY STUHLDREHER, ELMER LEYDEN, 
JIM CROWLEY and DON MILLER—made one 
of llicir vcrv- rare joint appearances. News pho­
tographers from the Chicago papers and national 
wire sen-ices were on hand to record the events 
and send pictures across the counlr>*. 
Among the former N.D. coaches on hand to honor 
Rockne were LAYDEN, HUNK ANDERSON, 
FIUNK LEAHY and TERRY BRENN.\N. Head 
Coacli JOE KUHARICH was tlic main speaker, 
and told the crowd that Notre Dame would regain 
its prominence in football as well as retain its 
"excellence in all phases of academic endeavor." 
A special feature of the dinner, whicli was 
sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, 
was the av\-arding of the Rockne Memorial trophy 
to Donald J. Hogan. Jr.. all-state halfliack of St, 
Ignatius High Scliool. Tiie trophy is awarded 
each year to the outstanding senior Catholic high 
school football player in the Chicago area. Prep 
sports ^Titers from Chicago newspapers pick the 
winner on the basis of football ability, scholarship 
and leadership. 
Each Catholic high school in the Chicago area 
nominated two bov-s for the award. The nominees, 
their coaclies and principals, also were special 
guests of tlie Notre Dame Club of Chicago at the 
dinner. 
JOHNNY LATTNER. one of N.D.'s all-time 
great stars and winner of both the Hcisman and 
Maxwell trophies In 1953. presented tlie Rockne 
tropliy to Hogan and medals to each of the nom­
inees. 
BILL DADDIO, HUGH DEVORE, DICK STANFEL, DON DOLL and BR^\D LYNN also attended the big Rockne Night dinner. Track Coach ALEX WILSON and Boxing Coacli DOMINIC NAPOLITANO also contributed to the night's festivities. 
MYRON POTTIOS, captain of the 1960 Fight­ing Irish team; ED HOERSTER, former St. Rita star and most valuable player In the Notre Dame­Nortlnv-cstem game; and BILL PFEIFFER, winner of last year's Rockne trophy while attending De Paul Academy and star of tlie freshman team at 
N.D. this fall, also were Introduced. 
GEORGE MENARD, president of the N.D. Club of Chicago, presented the "Most Valuable Player" trophy to Hocrstcr for his performance in the Xorthwestcm game. 
Others in the N.D. contingent from South Bend 
were REV. THOM.\S O'DONNELL, C.S.C., 
Notre Dame Foundation office; HERB JONES, business manager; BOB CAHILL, ticket manager; CHARLIE a^LLAHAN, publicity director; JOE DOYLE, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune, and BILL tl'HERTON, commentator for the N.D. football film. 
PHIL FACCENDA, immediate past president of the Club and cliairman of the dinner, was toast­master. Among the former Notre Dame stars he introduced were BERT METZGER, DAN SHAN­NON, DON SCHAEFER, JOE BERTRAND, ZIGGV CZAROBSKI, KEN SCHUSTER, JIM MtlNRO. BILL SULLI\'AN and MAX BURNELL. 
A number of prominent neM'spapcrmen also at­tended the Rockne dinner, .\mong them were DAVE CONDON, conductor of the "Wake of the News'* colimin in the Chicago Tribime; Dick Hackenberg, sports editor of the Chicago Sun-

BOSTON—Head table participants at Universal N.D. Conununion Sunday breakfast were; (I. to r.) W. E. Dacey, Jr., '49, Boston Club president; R. L. Marr, '58, breakfast chairman; Hon. John A. Volpe, K.M., governor of Alassachusctts; and Very Rev. R. H. Sullivan, C.S.C. '34, president of Stonchill College. 
Times, and Jerry Liska, Midwestern sports editor of the .Associated Press. —PAUL FULLMER 
Cincinnati 
Tlie annual Communion Sunday dinner ivas held on December lllh. Mass was celebrated at 5:00 
p.m. with dinner following thereafter. The speaker for the evening was Archbishop Karl J. Alter, who gave a ver>' enjoyable and Informative talk on the upcoming Ecumenical Council. The success of the affair was due In lar^e measure to the efforts of co-cliairmcn JOHN McCORMICK and JOHN CRONIN. 
A toy drive u-as conducted for the benfit of 
undcrpririleged children at Christmas. A large 
number of gifts was collected by co-cliairmcn 
Paul KcUey and Mickej- Schmitt. 
Tlie annual Scholarship Ball was held on De­
cember 26th. FRANK JOHNSON was chairman, 
and was ably assisted bv BOB LEONARD and 
TOM ISPHORDING. As usual, It x%^ the high­
light of the Christmas season. 
CHUCK LIMA presented PurccU High ScIiooI 
with llie Notre Dame trophy at tlieir post-season 
banquet. It is presented annually to the winner 
of the Greater Cincinnati Catholic high school 
league. 
—JOHN R. LaBAR, &:cy. 



Cleveland 
The RE\'. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL. C.S.C., was the special guest of the Women's Committee of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland at their annual cocktail dance held at the Terrace Room of the Staller Hilton Hotel on September 10, I960. ^^^s. LEO J. BURBY, wife of our club president, was Chairman of the Dance. In charge of ticket rcscr\-ations were Mrs. JOHN J. REIDY. JR., and Mrs. ROBERT DO\ST). Mrs. PAUL LILLIS was in cliarge of decorations and handling the enter­tainment was Mrs. PATRICK CANNON. TIic fine response by the members to this event enabled the Women's Committee to make their own per­sonal contribution to the Scholarship Fund. Tlic Officers wish to personally thank the women for their fine efforts in promoting this cocktail dance. 
On September 13lh, a quarterly business meet­ing was held at Rohr's Restaurant. Special guests of tlic Club were the new freshmen and their Dads. Tlic Campus CIu'i officers and students prorided a one hour panel discussion on subjects of spcdal interest to the new freshmen. The higlilight of the meeting u*as the kick-off of the 1960 Sdiolar­ship Campaign with tlie announcement by Chair­man TOM MULLIGxVN that the prize for this year's scliolarship drawing was an all expense paid weekend trip to the Notre Dame-Miami game on November 12th. 
The drau-ing was held November 1st at Rohr's Restaurant. A large turnout by the club members enabled the chairman to present the Scholarship Fund with another large donation. The officers and members of the Club wish to commend TOM 
MULLIGAN, chairman, FRx\NK NOVAK and 
GARY VONDR/\N, co-chairmen, for the extra­
ordinary' effort expended by them in making this 
campaign another huge success. 
Another highly successful event of 1960 was the .Annual Christmas Dance held at the Carter Hotel, » Grand Ballroom, on Friday, December 30, 1960. * JOHN P. C0\T*;E and RICHARD H. MILLER were co-cliairmen of this event. General program cliairman was JOHN P. HRIBAR. Assisting the chairmen were LEO J. BURBY and DENNIS O'NEILL, JR. In charge of student reservations was the campus club president, ROBERT E. BREWKA. Nearly 600 people attended the sell-out affair with proceeds going to the Cleveland Club Scholarship Fund. A sizeable xvomcn's telephone committee headed by Mrs. JOHN COYNE and Mrs. RICHARD MILLER included the following: .Mrs. LIONEL BALDWIN, Nfre. WILLIAM BEARGIE, Mrs. ROBERT BOUHALL, .Mrs. THOMAS BREMER, .Mrs. LEO J. BURBY, Mrs. P.\TRICK OVNNON, Mrs. DAVID a\RT ­WRIGHT, Mrs. AN'THON'Y DeB.AGGIS, JR., Mrs. VINCENT DeCR.\NE, ^^rs. JOHN E. DRAGOVITCH, Mrs. ROBERT E. DO WD, Mrs.f GEORGE DURKIN, Mrs. FREDERICK FRIEND, Mrs. RICHARD E. GERBR.\CHT. Mrs. THOM.VS McHALE, Mrs. RAY T. MILLER, JR., Mrs. RILEY MILLER, Mrs. ROBERT POWELL, Mrs. JOHN J. REIDY, JR., Mrs. AUGUSTINE A. STEFANEK, and Mrs. ROBERT W. WALLACE. 
—JOHN P. CO\'NE, ?eo-. 

Connecticut Valley 
Our Annual Communion Breakfast was held on 
Sunday, December 18, I960, at the Si.itler Hilton 
Hotel in Hartford following Mass at Si. Patrick's 
and St. Anthony's Church. 
An innovation was established this year when we inrited the \rives and girl friends of the alumni to join us at the Breakfast. 
Tlic principal speaker at this affair was the* Right Reverend Monslgnor JOSEPH R. LACEY," Chancellor of the Archdiocese of Hartford. Mon­slgnor Lace\* gave us a history of the past Coun­cils of the Church and an inslglit into the upcoming important Ecumenical Council called for bv Pope John XXIII. 
—ROGER C. TRE.MBL.\Y, Seer. 

Dearborn 
Tlie first social meeting of 1961 was held Janu­ary 20 at JERRY WAYNO's. The gticst speaker was DR. DAVID BURKS, a State Department expert on Latin American problems. 
The Dearborn Club's annual Dinner Dance was held on January- 28 at the Botsford Inn. Cocktails and sirloin dinner were followed by dancing to the nation's top bands through the wonders of electronics. Early takers were tli ^ JERRY SARBS, GEORGE TOBINS, JIM KINGSjl DICK KINGS, EMORY DAKOSKES, JERRY KELLYS, JERRY WAYNOS, JACK FISHES, 


20 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-Apnly 1961 
RAY DeFAURVS, JOHN PASELLIS, and DON 

• HICKSES—plus, of course, Chairman JER.'^Y GASS and Ruth ^far>•. 

Decatur 
The Blue Mill Restaurant was the scene of our annual dinner meeting and election of officers. Elected to lead our club in 1961 were JAMES A. UHL ('53), president; GEORGE HUBBARD ('54), vice-president; GENE FORAN, ('52), secrc­tarj- and AMBROSE C. MORAN, JR., ('48), treasurer. Directors elected were STEX'E GR^V­LIKER ('42), BILL DOWNING ('57), and RICH MJcDONALD ('55). A ilne meal and a fine evening were had by all. RICH McDONALD was chair­man of the event and did a fine job. 
We are still holding our monthly luncheons r.t the Decatur Elks Club, I2:(X) Noon on the 4lh Wednesday of each month. Our December lunch-

A eon was pretty well attended—JI.M UHL, BOB UHL, ALAN L.VNDOLT, BERNARD MARTY, GENE FORAN, RICH McDONALD, STEVE GRALIKER, MILT BEi\UDINES (Sr. and Jr.). We haven't had any visitors since JIM KICHESON from St. Louis was with us in October. 
GEORGE HUBBARD and Marj- Ann are e.v­pccting another child in March (tlieir 5th). George is still selling stocks for Tabor & Co. If George follows his own market advice he will be able to afforded a dozen children. At this point ever>'one please cross your fingers and hope the price of sov beans and frozen eggs goes up. 
BILL and Marv- Liz DOWNING and FRi\NK and Kay LEX were also expecting the stock soon. The N.D. Family grows and grows. We arc be­ginning to look fonvard again to anotlier St. Patrick's Day dance. Financially these dances are a bust but that makes little difTerencc to the spirit 

^ of the occasion. MaN-bc some of our N.D. neigh­bors from Springfield, Bloomington and Cham­paign can make it this year. —MILT BErVUDINE 

Des Moines 
Tile Xotre Dame Club of Dcs Atoincs held its annual Christmas Dance at the Hotel Savery, Des Moines, December 27, I9G0, 9:00 P.M. —1:00 
A. M. One hundred and seven couples attended, and it was a happy time for all. Keith Killinger and his band proWded the music. 
Chairman of the dance was PAUL EIDE, '52. .Among the alumni attending were JIM BOESEN, '54; JIM McCOMB, '54; JOE JOYCE, '54; JOHN PLANALP, '39; ROBERT DREY, '52; JOH.V KURTZ, '55; and GEORGE J. PFL<\NZ IH. 
Tlie following alumni also were present: DON­

• ALD BOSS, '41; JOSEPH CtVSEY, '41; JAMES DINNEN, '48; JOHN DREY, '50; WTLLLAM FULTZ, '57; ROBERT KURTZ, '47; RICHARD ARKWRIGHT, "50; FRED J. NESBIT, '43; and CLEMENT R. SCHNOEBELEN, '48. 
On January 25. 1961, a luncheon meeting was held of the Des ^^oines Notre Dame Club to hear President JIM BOESEN make his report on the Alumni Club President's meeting held at Xotre Dame the weekend of January 21. 
Luncheon was held at Hotel Fort Des Moines. In attendance to hear Jim Bocsen were: JAMES DIXNE.\, '48; JOHN DREY, '30; TOM NOLAN, '54: HAROLD KLEIN, '26: JOSEPH BISIG­

•
 N.ANO, '39; ROBERT &\NXOX, '30; CHARLES 

B.
 CONDON, '49; ROBERT DREY, '53: JAMES HAM.MER, '32; JOE JOYCE, '54; GEORGE PFLJXNZ III, '43; KENNETH REXSTR,\W, '30; 


^PAU L EIDE, '52; and JOHN SWEENEY, '32. On Saturday, February- 11, 1961, the Xotre Dame Club of Des Moines sponsored its annual Day of Recollection for married couples at the Dowling High Sdiool diapel in Des Moines, Father Damian of the Passionist Fathers conducted the services. 
Alumni attending with their wives were JIM BOESEN, HAROLD KLEIN, JOE BISIGN-\NO, JOE JOYCE, GEORGE FLANZ III and JIM Mc-CO.MB. 
—JOSEPH B. JOYCE, Seo-. 


: Detroit 
Tlic Detroit Club handled a block of tickets to 17-19. MATT CARRIGAN u-as chairman and JIM MOTSCHALL was co-chairman. 


Eastern Indiana 
Universal Communion Sunday was obserxcd De c II in Hartford City with Mass at the Mar>brook XoWtiaie chapel.' REV. LEO BL^MS celebrated High Hass with music fumbhcd by the novitiate clioir. Breakfast was served in the Riedman Me­morial School dining room after Mass. President BILL CRONIN welcomed the guests, and REV. 
J. H. MORf\N, pastor of St. John's Church, gave the invocation. Father Blais was the speaker on the Ecumenical Council, and JOE SCHEIDLER of the X.D. facultv- v*-as a special guest. Present were Mayor WILLIAM SMITH, Mr. and Mrs. 
C. U. BAR.\BE, Mr. and Mrs. PATRICK L.\R­KIN and family, JOE and JI.M SCHEIDLER, Mr. and Mrs, THOMAS aVXNON and tamiW, Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM CRAIG, SR., and familv, Mr. and Mrs. JAMES H/\LLIG.\N and familv, Mr. and Mrs. NORBERT HART and family, ^^r. and Mrs. JOHN C, H\*NES and familv, and Mr. and ifrs. WILLIAM McDONALD, plus representatives of the Schwcier. Cronin and Wiley families. 


Ecuador 

Wc did it again! (No reference lo Deslrv' Rides Again). In Fcbruarv' our famous Notre Dame alumni got together once more. This iimc the meeting vvas held at the Hotel Quinto. In the din­ing room called, "The Top of the AV'orld." It was quite pleasant, even though some of the alumni failed me at the last moment and otlicrs could not come for several reasons. Pictures Merc taken and in this issue you can sec. from left to right: First Row, JOHN G. MOELLER, JOSE AND­R/\DE, ERNESTO ITURR.\LDE, FRANK PLVTO, ALBERTO PEREZ, TEMISTOCLES TER.\N and FERN/VNDO ESPINOZ.\. Second Row, from left to right: JAIME PINTO, Mrs. Pinto, Mrs. Perez, Mrs. Serrano, GALO SERR^VNO, Mrs. Tenm, PHILIP AGEE, Mrs. Agee, -Mrs. Mocllcr, .Mrs. Frank Pinto and Mrs. Espinoza. 
Members of the alumni who could not attend the dinner were: RAMIRO SAM.\NIEGO, OS­WALDO ARROYO, LUIS GALVEZ, ANTONIO MORTENSEN (secrclarv- and treasurer of the Club, who never works as secretarv but does not let the little money we have go), GERALVN GRIJALVA, ALFREDO ESPINOZ.\, ALBERTO ENRIQUIZ, RAFAEL GARCIA, JALME CARIL^SCO and ALEJxVNDRO VILLrWICENCIO. 
A recent guest vN-as Mr. ABDALL.AH SAMUEL .\DELO, Special Representative of Kcndavis In­dustries Inc. Mr. .Adelo received his A.B. in 1947 and Iiis LL.B. in 1954. FRANK PLVTO invited 
him for lunch at the Hotel Quinto and I had a 
small cocktail party in my home that evening, 
after which OSWALDO ARROYO invited him for 
dinner at the above mentioned Hotel. The follow­
ing morning I had the pleasure of accompanying 
Mr. and Mrs. Adelo to the airport, where they 
caught the plane for Guayaquil and later on to 
Lima, where the>" were planning to sec my good 
friend ENRIQUE LULL!. 
Our next meeting will be cither in my home or 

in the home of one of the Pinto brothers. There 
is always a better atmosphere in a private home 
than in a hotel. I will keep you posted as to 
these activities. 
All of the Alumni wish me lo express for them 

our sincere condolence to the Univeisity at the 
death of FATHER CUNNL\GHA.M. I was in­
formed of this regrettable event by Professor 
WALTER LANGFORD ol the Modern Language 
Department. 
—JOHN G. .MOELLER, Pres. 


Flint 
Tlic Sixth Annual Noire Dame Club of Flint Communion Sunday was held at St. Joseph*s Hos­pital Chapel on December 18. I960. REV. JOHN 
J. CAVANAUGH, former president of Notre Dame, offered the Mass and gave a short talk. TIic Mass v%as followed by breakfast at Stedman's Restau­rant. In attendance were: the E.ARL L. BEAU­CHA.MP family, THOS. F. HALLIG.AN familv, R.VYMOND J. KELLY family, TED M-ANYAK family, ARTHUR PARADISE family, D.\NIEL 
P. SHERRAN family, VICTOR GEORGE familv, PAUL HUGHES family, ALFRED M.ANSOUk family, THEODORE M.ANSOUR, T. G. RAN­DALL family, J.\MES J. SHERRY famHv and ROBERT J. SIBILSKY family. 
Father Cavanaugh's talk included a fine report on the University. This v*-as followed by a very interesting qucstion-and-answer period. 
President VICTOR E. GEORGE presented Father Cavanaugh with a check for $1000.00 from the Club. Our club had previously sent in $K)0.00 in Fcbruarv- of 1960 making a total amount of $1400.00. 
R,\Y.MOND J. KELLY, JR.. was in charge of arrangrmcnts. There vvas a total attendance of 80 at the Breakfast. TIic guests included Father Cavanaugh's sister Ann from Owosso, Mr. Joseph Mulhall and son Joseph (who is also a 1960 graduate) from Owosso. Honorarv* member A. R. Campbell, our Notre Dame Club ^^an of the Year, joined honorarv- member Claude O. Darby and Mrs. Darby, v%-ho arranged the breakfast at Stcdmau's. Other guests were the Thomas J. Smith and Edward G. Dclehanty families. 
the X.D.-Dctroit Basketball game on Februar>- 11 
•the U. of D. Field House. JACK MURRAY was CALUMET—^The Kuharich brothers — Tony, probation officer for HanunoDd's U. S. 
-'in cliargc of the distribution. District Court, and Joe, head football coach at N.D. — headlined the annual sports stag M JIM MOTSCHALL withdrew from the directors 
of the Calumet Region in East Chicago: (clockwise from left) Bill Daddio, NJ>. assistant 
"and was replaced by JOHN O'NEILL. 
coach; Larry Gallagher, Club treasurer; Tony Kuhxmch, general chairman; Dick Stanfel, 
The annual Weekend Retreat was held at Man­resa Jesuit Retreat House, Bloomfield Hills, Feb. assistant coach; moderator Joe Kurth; coach Kuharich and Ben Danko, Club president. 
Notre Dame AlumnuSy MarclhApnl, 1961 21 
JIM SHERRY, JR., TOM HALLIGAN and PAUL HUGHES have been appointed to die Spe­cial Gifts Committee for the Library- Fund drive for this area. 
—FRED J. MANSOUR 
Fort Lauderdale 
Officers for the xxar 1961 arc: THOMAS J. WALKER, '42, president; JOHN L. CALLAX, *21, vice president; THOMAS B. MAUS, '57. secretary-; and EDWARD J. TROMBETTA, '60, treasurer. 
Tlic Seventh Annual Florida Convention will be sponsored by the Xolre Dame Club of Fort Laud­erdale at the Beach Club Hotel, Naples, Florida, on the week-end of April 21, 22 and 23, 1961. 
Tlie price of the three day ivcck-end uill be $70 per couple or $33 a person. Tlie Beach Club is loaded uith attractions, golf, tennis, bo%vling, swim­ming, pier and surf fishing, etc, plus all tlie fea­tures of past Notre Dame Conventions, cocktail parties, NIonte Carlo night, style show and ban­quet. 
In xicw ot the wide response from other Clubs throughout the country, we again wdcome rescr­x-ations from outside the State. Call or write TOM MAUS, 710 E. Las Olas Blvd., Fort Lauderdale, Florida, phone Jackson 2-1473, for reservations or further information. 
—BILL MAUS, JR., '53 

Fort Wayne 
In December the Fort Wayne Club elected a new president, ROBERT R. LUTHER, '49. Bob vnll scrx'c a two-year term beginning in April, 1961. He antlcip-ted the term by attendance at the Club Presidents Council on the campus in late January*. 


Hawaii 
The Notre Dame Club of Hawaii has been buay with the follovring actinties: 

1.
 Communion Breakfast on December U, 1960, wth breakfast at Wood>-'s at the International Xfarketplace following Mass and Communion at the Chapel of Chaminade College, our Catholic col­lege here in Hat%-aii. FATHER ROBERT MACKEY, president of Chaminade, spoke to the Club on the Ecumenical Council. 

2.
 Limchcon on January- 7, 1961, at the Wil­^o^^'s to honor JOE KUHARICH, who came to Honolulu to coach one of the teams in our Hula Bowl on January 8. Coach Kuharich had a tight schedule, and wc were happy tliat he could take some time out to 'visit. 


3.
 Business meeting on January 19, 1961, at which the following officers were elected: DON.\LD C >UCHADO, president; NEIL VASCONCELLES, \ice-president; ARTHUR NAKAMARU, secretary-; and THOMAS FLYNN, treasurer. At this meet­ing an exciting decision >\-as made- The Club is imderwriting and sponsoring an evening course at Chaminade College on the Second Vatican Council, an eight-week course on x-arious aspects of the council with lectures on the history, program and function of ecimienical councils, the lait^*, liturgi­cal reform, and prospects for e\-entual unity with the Protestant and Orthodox Churches. 


—DON MACHADO, Pres. 


Indianapolis 

AL SMITH, '34, of the Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce, was cliairman of the first annual **Hoosier Classic Luncheon" this past Christmas holiday. Our club, along with the alumni clubs of Purdue, Butler, and Illinois, sponsored the basketball teams of their schools during this well-attended sports gathering at the Indianapolis Ath­letic Club. We were able to watch the Jordan-men break even for third place by beating Illinois and losing to Purdue. We all enjoyed spending a few days with JOHN JORDAN, JIM GIBBONS, CHARLEY CALLAH.\N, FATHER BARRY and the rest of the traveling squad. 
Also during the Christmas season the Indianapolis Campus Club held its Annual Candlelight Formal fiance. TOM KURKER, '62, was the chairman for tJie student club, and DICK McNAMARA, '54, was ^ c alumni representative. As usual, it was a huge success, with the renewing of old friendships along with **good cheer." 
Our Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was held on December 11. FATHER THOMAS JONES, C.S.C., ^N-as our excellent speaker for this annual fathcr-and-son breakfast. His topic on the Ecumenical Coundl was indeed very- timely, and the 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY—Scene at Hartford's Statler-Hilton Hotel for the Connecticut Valley Club's annual CcHnmunion Breakfast last December. 
full house enjoyed every* minute of his speech. LEO 
BARNHORST, '49, was the diairman and toast­
master. He introduced such guests as MOST REX''. 
PAUL SCHULTE, our Archbishop; REV. WIL­
LIAM SCHMIDT, S.J., superintendent of the new 
Jesuit Prep School in Indianapolis; REV RAY­
MOND BOSLER, editor of the .\rchdioccsan paper; 
and BROTHER GILES, C.S.C., principal of In­
dianapolis Cathedral High Scliool. 
JACK RYAN, *41, %*^ elected judge of the In­

diana Appellate Court on the G.O.P. ticket last 
November. . . . Several new ND men in town: 
CHUCK PUNTtLLO, *58, an ex-member of the 
football team, is now a student in the Indiana Uni­
versity School of Dentistry; DR. FRED POEHLER, 
M.D., '54, also an ex-football player, is practicing 
here. 
—BILL McGOWAN, Secy. 


Kentucky 
The Notre Dame Club of Kentucky turned out in 

force at Freedom Hall in Louis\-iIle on December 7 
to represent the University at the Notre Dame-Uni­
versity of Kentucky basketball game. TIic enthusiasm 
of the Club members and their friends was not 
enough, however, to provide the winning margin 
for Notre Dame. Our thanks to ROG HUTER who 
arranged for the tickets and did a tremendous Job 
in distributing them. We hope to make this game 
an annual event and im-itc all Notre Dame Alumni 
in the area to plan to be with us next y-ear. 
Tlie %vcek of December 5 was an active one for 

all club members. Tlic game on December 7 was 
followed by our annual Family Communion Supper 
on December 8. JOE BOWLING, *52, our Spiritual 
Committee Chairman, did an outstanding job in 
handling all the arrangements, and was rewarded by 
the 6ne turnout. Tlie Mass was said in Pope Pius X 
Church. The Club was pririleged to liavc FR. BOB 
GRAY as the speaker. Fr. Gray is a graduate of 
Notre Dame and the Club Chaplain. He spoke on 
the forthcoming Ecumenical Council. 
The curtain w-as lowered on Notre Dame Club activities for 1960 with our annual Christmas dance on December 29. The dance, one of the most suc­cessful in recent years, was held in the Crystal Ball­room of the Brown Hotel. Many new faces were on the scene to bid farewell to 1960 and give the New Year-a premature welcome. Our thanks to all the club members who helped to make this dance a success—partlculariv JACK DAUGHERTY, '50, and PAUL MALONEY, '52. 
—THOMAS A. BRAND, Secy. 


La Crosse 
The following men were elected officers of the Notre Dame Club of La Crosse, Wisconsin, for 1961: STEVE PAVELA, president; BILL MURPHY, vice-president; BERNIE LAVINS, secretary; and DON SIEGER, treasurer. President Pavela was on the campus for the Club Presidents Council January 20-22. 
—BERNIE LEVINS, Secy. 


Lansing 
The Notre Dame Club of Lansing obser\'cd Uni­versal Notre Dame Communion Sunday on De­
ccmber 18. The Mass was celebrated in the chapel 
of the St. Vincent's Home, with our chaplain, 
MSGR. SLOWXY, officiating. After Mass alumni 
and families stayed on at St. Vincent's for a *'con­
tincntal" breakfast. Secretary JOHN POWERS han­
dled the details. 
Plans for a joint Catholic alumnt Christmas 

dinner-dance w*ere dropped for lack of interest, but 
work proceeded on subscriptions for the Library-. 
drive. " 
Late thanks to C. J. HESS for his handling of a 

fine smoker back In November. Another notcworthy 
November happening u-as the arri\'al of Jean .Ann 
for Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT MOONEY, first daugh­
ter after sc\Tn consecutive sons. 
First Monday lunclicons continue in the dining 

room of the Capital Park Motor Hotel. 
-JOHN POU'ERS, Secy-. 


McHenry County 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of McHenr>- County, III., obser\'cd Universal Notre Dame Communion Sun­day on Dec II A%-ith a Mass, breakfast and com­mentary on the Ecimienical Council. Wc were able to use the facilities of our new Marion Central High School in Woodstock, and the Mass was of-g fcrcd in the student chapel there. Our speaker was " FATHER CONSTANTINE, who is the superior of St. Mary's Seminary in Crystal Lake, formerly a chaplain in the United Stales Air Force with the rank of colonel and first chaplain of the Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, Colo. Father Constan­tlne lias traveled extensively and has a fine rcputa­tion as an educator and speaker. He delivered a scholarly commentary on the aims and probable re­sults of the Ecumenical Council. 
—JOSEPH A. CONERT\', JR., Pres. 


Maine 
Sad news from Maine indicates that JOHN F. LAUGHLIN, Class of '54, will be moring from Maine to Syracuse, New York tlie end of January. Since we hax'c all too few alumni in the State we can ill afford to lose John. f 
Tlie Notre Dame Concert Band will be playing' in Lcwiston on the Saturday after Easter, -April 8th, and wc look forward to a wonderful concert. 
Maine is rather quiet for alumni activities this time of the year but we hope to continue to grow and be active as time and our limited membership permits. 
—RAY GEIGER, Secy. 



Mansfield 
To round its 1960 actiritics, the Notre Dame Club of ^lansfield, Ohio, held a Holiday Dance on December 28, at the Knights of Columbus Home. Approximately sixty couples — members and guests 
— enjoyed a social hour from 9 to 10 P.M. and dancing from 10 P.M. to 1 A.M. 
Coimnittecs In charge of the affair were as fol­lows: General Chairman, JOHN C. O'DONNELL, SR., '24; Hall, JAMES J. O'DONNELL, '51; Or-< chestra, RICHARD L. WALTER. '41; Refresh­ments, MARSHALL E. PRUNTY, JR., '50; Decora­tions, Mrs. GEORGE F. KAVANAUGH and Mrs. 
21 Notre Dame Alumnus, MaTcb-April, 1961 
' •  JOHN a 0»DONNELL, SR.; Tickets and invita­tions, Mrs. RICHARD L. WALTER.  
i  
Miami  
\  The Miami Xotre Dame Club held its annual elec­ 
tion in Januar>% and the ne»' ofBccrs took their  
posts at the Fcbruao* meeting. JIM SMITH was  
elected to a second term as president along with  
the following new- officers: DR. BILL WELCH, first  
vice-president; DR. BILL McSHANE, second \'icc­ 
president; GEORGE HERO, treasurer; and BOB  
PROBST, secretary. AHKE ZOROVICH, BILL  
STREETER, JIM WILSON, and JOHN CANANE  
were elected to the board of directors.  
President Smitli pointed out at the end of 1960  
that the chief goal of the Club would be maximum  
participation with the Library' Drive and the pro­ 
gram of the Notre Dame Foundation. He stressed  
the importance of the Ford Foundation's pledge lo  
)  ^  match funds contributed by alumni and friends.  
He also announced that the Florida State Con­ 
vention held in past years at the Sea Ranch Hotel  
in Fort Lauderdale, ^vill be moved and revitalized.  
The Miami, Fort Lauderdale, and West Palm Beacli  
Club presidents arranged to have the convention  
at the Beach Club in Naples, Fla., April 21-23. At  
a cost of $35 per person, the planners believe that  
the facilities will make the 1961 Convention the best  
e\'er held. It wHl he under joint sponsorship, with  
the West Palm Beach Club handling Friday detaib,  
Fort Lauderdale arranging the Saturday night ban­ 
quet, and Miami in charge of daytime activities all  
three days. As in the past, vacationing Irish and  
their wives arc welcomed from all over the U.S.  
Mid-Hudson Valley  
On Saturday, November 12, the Mid-Hudson  
Valley Alumni and wives travelled to Nc\** York  

• City for the Club's Theatre Party. The show was the Pulitzer Prize and New York Drama Critics Award uinning musical, "Fiorcllo!" Tlic show was followed by cocktails, dinner and a night on the town with everyone thoroughly enjoying tliis latest Club actinty. 
At the Newburgh City Club on November I7th, the Club heard Rev. George Croft, O.M.I., speak on "Thanksgiving and its Afeaning to Catholic College Graduates." Main item of discussion on the business agenda was the recent $6,000,000 Ford Foundation gift to the University. Alumni attending a Club function for the first time were BRIAN K. 0*SULLIVAN, '60 and ROBERT K. MILLER, '59. Brian is a native of Newburgh who returned home following graduation, while Bob is employed as a ci\il engineer on the construction of the new high school in neighboring Montgomery-. Club Vice-Pres. 

9 CHARLIE BECK coordinated this meeting. In obscr\"ance of Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday, the annual Father-Son Communion Breakfast -wzts held on December 11. Rev. Francis J. Fallon, S.J., Rector of St. .^ndrc^v-on-Hudson Semi­nary, was scheduled to celebrate the Mass and speak at the breakfast on "The Ecumenical Coun­cil," this year's common theme. At the very last moment Father Fallon was called out of town, and Father Poulhier, S.J., filled in as a replacement. Mass was celebrated in the Madonna Delia Strada Chapel at St. Andrew-on-Hudson with the breakfast following at the Nelson House in Poughkccpsie. At­tending a Club activity for the initial time U'as CHARLIE MANERI, '60. Flash! U.N.D. Night on April 8 will feature Coach HUGH DEVORE. 
—DO.VALD J. RE\'NOLDS, Pres. 

New Jersey 
The 23rd annual Communion Breakfast of the Notre Dame Alumni /Vssociation of New Jersey on "December II managed to beat out the State's first big snowstorm by a few hours. For the second straight year, the affair was held at the Robin Hood Inn, Clifton, following 10 o'clock Mass at St. Philip the Apostle Churcli, also in Clifton. 

The family-style breakfast was highlighted by the presence of REV. JOHN A. O'BRIEN, dean of Seton Hall Univcrsity-Collese, Newark and Jcrsej* City, who gave a lively and Informative talk on the "Ecumenical Council." Chairman BILL KIRCH­NER and co-chairman PETE REG/\N managed to corral a representative turnout for the occasion, including most of the "old reliables" who usually insure the success of each club function. Ho^v•ever, "standing room only" was not the order of the day. \ ^ Among the familiar faces on hand, some with ' ^ their family and friends, uer« ANGELO AMATO, 
"BERT" BERTELLI, SAL BONTE.MPO, HANK 
BORDA, BOB BUTLER, JOSEPH M. BVRNE, JR., LEO COSTELLO, BRUCE DOLD, HARRY DURKIN, TOM FARRELL, SR.. ROGER and JIM FITZSIM.MONS, HARRY GRATTAN, BOB HAIDINGER, JOHN HART, DR. JERRY HAYES, JIM HESSION, BOB JOYCE, JOHN KELLY, ED KIRBY, BILL KIRCHNER, TOM KRUG, BOB LARKIN, TIM >L\HONEY. JOE .McKEON, MAX .MLXNIG, DAN O'NEIL, JACK PINDAR, PETE REG.AN, JACK SAND, ED VON HOENE, JAMES WALDRON and JOHN WINBERRY. 
Pnor to the Communion Breakfast, the Notre Dame Glee Club visited Newark on November 26 for a one-night stand at St. Benedict's High School auditorium, compliments of HARRY DURKIN who handled the arrangements. Another item, apparently lost in the shuffle, was that MICKEY DOYLE copped top honors at the club's annual golf outing at Glen Ridge Countr>- Club with a neat 71. Not bad for a guy pushing thirty?? 
Your club officers. President JOE McKEON. Vice President BRUCE DOLD, Treasurer JACK SAND, and Secretarv- HANK BORDA, hope evcr>' 
• member will strive to attend the upcoming "Uni­versal Night" April 10 at the Mayfair Farms, West Orange. This is definitely the year's "biggest" New Jerscj' alumni event. 
—JACK S.AND, Treas. 


New York 
FRANK .McCULLOUGH %vas recently elected a 
Judge of the Supreme Court of the Slate of New 
York from Westchester County. Judge McCuUough 
formerly scr\"cd as a County Court judge and prior 
to that as an assembl>-man from Westchester. We 
are justly proud of our fellow club member and 
we wish him all success. 
Our Annual Communion Breakfast was again held 
this year at the Park Lane Hotel on Sunday, De­
cember llth. The brunch «"as preceded by our 
Communion Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral. Mass 
was celebrated by Fr. EDMUND P. JOYCE who 
also gave the members and their guests a fine 
discourse on the accomplishments of our alma 
mater in 1960. Co-Chairmen GUS Hx\RDART and 
TO.M MURPHY did a fine job %vith the arrange­
ments. Our guest speaker was PETER CAMPBELL 
BRO\\'N, former Corporation Counsel of the City 
of New York. Recalling his days in Justice Dcpt., 
Mr. Brown warned of the growing menace of 
Communism and the subversion practiced here in 
our countr>'. Pres. BILL CUDDY presented a check 
of §1000 to Fr. Joyce from the Club as a con­
tribution to the Library- Fund in memory- of our 
laic beloved FRANK C. WALKER. Mr. Walker's 
son Tom acknowledged the gift on behalf of his 
family. 
BILL F.ALLOX, former past President of the 
Club and for many years a devoted member of the 
Board of Governors was nominated and elected 
for the National Alumni Board. It is a singular 
honor to be nominated, a unitiuc one to be elected. 
Bill will be a credit to the Board and bring honor 
to Notre Dame. 
Due to the fact that seventeen indies of snow 
fell in N.Y. on Dec. 12lh, the meeting of the 
Long Island Division scheduled for Dec I3tlr had to be cancelled. LOU BUCKLEY, former professor at Notre Dame ad presently with the 
U.S. Dept. of Labor, was scheduled to address the meeting. Vice-Prcs. TOM WALSH of Long Island is attempting to arrange for a new date. 
All signs pointed to^-ards Shrub Oak, N.Y., where Notre Dame men from the New York area gath­ered on Feb. 2nd in a group to begin a three day retreat. The Lo)'ola Seminary under the guidance of the Jesuit Fathers was the Retreat House. Chairman GEORGE FRAZIER had been diligently working on this program for the past year. \Vc hope he sa\** >t)u there! 
Stealing some items from JIM O'SHEA'i Nc*v»­letter It Is reported that JOE NORRIS. '43, of Long Island, died suddenly In December. Please remember him In your prayers. TIM CREMIN, '59, engaged to Miss Sonj-a Petronclli. BERNARD 
J. CONNOR. '54, now with Pepsi Cola in New York and recently announced plans to be married. 
I am sure JIM O'SHEA, the editor of our Newsletter, won't mind my reporting the above. Jim has done a wonderful job with the Newsletter which we understand has become the model for other clubs to emulate. 
TONY DIBARI and GENE MAGUIRE were the chairmen for the Westchester Division Cock­tail party and dance held at the Larchmont Shore Club on November I3th. Approximately 60 couples attended and to the surprise of everyone, a prize was waiting each and all. BILL CUDDY won the basket of cheer, a real fix. 
JIM POWERS. '52, is to be congratulated for the outstanding job he did as chairman of the Nai-Y Football Trip to Philly. Over 1000 people made the trip on our special train, Jim even tried to get into the game itself but to no a\'ail. 
—BOB FINK, Secy. 

Oklahoma City 
The Notre Dame Club of Oklahoma City held its annual Communion Mass at the Cathedral of Our Lady of Perpetual Help on December llth. A brcaJcfast folloived at the Oklahoma City Golf and Country Club. Rev. Charles Berton gave us aa informati\-e talk on the Ecumenical Coundl. 
Wednesday. December 28th, our annual Christ­mas Dance was held at Twin Hills Golf and Country Club. This affair ^vas one of the best we have enjoyed. Students and their guests were in good attendance along with a fine turnout of members and their guests^ ^Vlth good fellowship and music a really fine time was enjoyed by all. 
Two of our members, ROBERT McFARLAND and CHARLES McFARLAND. were married at nuptial masses during December. Bob was married on Dec. 6 to Miss Joan Miller and Charles was married on Dec. 29 to Miss Ruth Hensley. 
—AL R. ORESCHER, Pres. 


Omaha & Council Bluffs 
The Omaha Club recently sponsored a Square Dance, proceeds from which we proceeded to con­tribute to the Memorial Library Fund. Our efforts 

ECUADOR—Notre Dame men and their wives gathered for a Felmury meeting at the Hotel Quito's Techo del Mundo C^Top of the World"). Identificatida can be found in Ecuador's report in the du b section. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 23 
were greatly enhanced by ihc donation by LOUIS FINOCCHIARO, JR., of a gallon of bourfxm. Our expenses were minimum, and the cliarges for refreshments and admissions account for the good results. Tlic success of the event was also due substantially to the officers of the Alumni Group, who contributed a good deal of lime and effort. Tliev arc: D. HUGHES WILCOX, Wcc-presidcnt; WARREN YOUNGSTROM, secretary; and J. EMMET ROOT, treasurer. 
On Sunday, December II, we also held a Com­munion Breakfast in recognition of Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday. FR. ROBERT SOUTHARD gave a most interesting and enlight­ening talk on the subject of the forthcoming Ecu­menical Council. He rc\-icwed what prior Coun­cils had done and illustrated tlicir significance by reviewing the problems wlilcli the Churdi then faced, comparing them by Illustration to the prob­lems the Church faces today, and suggested, with­out being presumptuous, what might be done about tlicm by this Council. Father Southard also dis­cussed the meclianics in\*olvcd in iwnducting a Council and its place in the Church. It was a most cnjo\-ablc and educational talk. Father Souili­ard has a reputation for being one of the best speakers in this area. Accordingly, our Commu­nion Breakfast was ve^^• successful. 
—ROBERT L. BERRY, Pres. 



Oregon 
Hughes *57 \-ariciv of Cliristmas Dance—with ingredients of TO.M HALEY and BOB BERSCHIN­SKI, both also *57, as coKJiairmen—was a most palatable affair on Dec. 23 at the University of Portland Commons. Other hard-working commit­teemen were brother ED HUGHES, '55; BOB HEALEY, *53; TED MURPHY, '54; RUSS ME­H.AUS, and old reliable PETE SANDROCK, '39. Co-Chairnian Hale\- was really working under pressure—ha\'ing become a papa on Dec. 20. Wel­come to "Mr. Notre Dame of 1981!" And con­gratulations to Grandfather ART H.-\LEY, campus publicist. Our thanks to the ladies, led by ^Irs. Ed. Hughes, for the delightful decor of the dance. 
Sorr\- to report BILL SCH.MITT, '10, is still in hospital recovering from a liip operation. Foot­ball fan that he is, no doubt the Bowl games helped pass the vcar-cnd days for him. Speedy recoverj'. Bill! 
Pres. CHARLIE SL.-\TT, '33, reports receipt of a nice letter from FR. JOHN WILSON, C.S.C., retiring Foundation head, congratulating the Club on its high percentage of alumni participation in the '60 Foundation drive. Our 72 per cent is among the nation's highest. It would be higher if we did not include some **membcrs" whom we've not heard from in years — but, like St. Monica, wc keep praying for their return to the fold. Slatt was at the N.D. Presidents Meeting on campus Januar>' 
19. Tlien on to Ne^v York and Boston for engi­neering group meetings. Hope you took your red flannels, Charlie! 

Palm Beach County 
The Notre Dame Club held a Cliristmas meet­ing on December 29, 1960. Those who attended were DAN and JIM DOUTCEY, CHE/\THAM HODGES, BILL MADDEN, \\1LL/\RD .M.\US, BOB GORE, ROME HART.\L\N, MIKE MAGA­HEY, DR. J. F. COONEY, DR. BERNARD 0'HAR.A, and TIM O'HARA. -Assodatc members who were present were BILL and JOHN CLE^VRY. 
Plans were discussed for the Florida State Con­vention to be held in Naples, Florida, on the week­end of April 21, 22, and 23, I96I. Tlic Palm Beacli County Club will be responsible for providing the entertainment for the Friday night opening of the convention. 
The Club held an informal meeting on February 
6. I9G1, to discuss the plans for the Florida State Convention on April 21, 22, and 23. 
A formal lundieon meeting i^-as held on February 14, 1961. The Club was honored by tlie presence of FATHER O'DONNELL from the University. Fatlier was accompanied bv JIM FRICK and Mr. ACKERMAN. Fatlier O'Donnell and Mr. Frick told the Club of tlie details of tlic new Ford Foundation Grant to Notre Dame. 
The Club presented a farewell gift to President TIM O'HARA (Class of '50) who is moring to the State's Attorney's office in Chicago. 
An election of oflicen was held. EDWARD D. LEWIS (Class of '54) was elected president; SAM BUDNYK (Class of '55) was elected Wee-presi­dent; and DR. BERNARD F. O'HARA (Class of *48) was elected secretary-treasurer. 
24 Notre Dame AlumnuSj March-April, 
NEW JERSEY—At annual Conununion Breakfast of Notre Danic Alumni Association of New Jersey are (seated, L to r.) Joe McKeon, President; Rew John A. O'Brien, dean of Seton Hall Univ. College; Bruce Dold, vice-president, and Hank Borda, secretary; {stand­ing, 1. to r) Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., 1960 N.D, Man of the Year; Peter Regan, co-chairman; Bill Kirchner, chairman, and Jack Sand, treasurer. 
The Club is expanding due to the influx of north-
em residents and a tremendous increase in the 
Catholic population of Palm Beacli County. 
Also present at tlic meeting were DAN DOWNEY 
(*44), JAMES DOWNEY ('43), BILL .\UDDEN 
('42), and DAN STACK. .Associate members pres­
ent were \\TLLIAM CLE:\RY, DENNIS CLEARY, 
and JAMES CLEARY, JR. 
—EDWARD D. LE\nS, Pres. 


Peoria 
Peoria area Notre Dame alumni were treated to 
a visit by RE\'. ROBERT S. PELTON, C.S.C., 
on December 18, 1960, for the Annual Universal 
Notre Dame Communion Breakfast celebration. 
Head of the Universit>-'s Department of Tlieolog>­
and assistant religious superior at Notre Dame, 
Father Pelton's address follou-ing the Breakfast 
was entitled "The Cleaning of the Ecumenical 
Council to Notre Dame Men in Today's World." 
In his talk. Father explained the dramatic part 
that the University is playing in preparation for 
the Council called by Pope John for early 1962, 
and told of tlie participation of many Notre Dame 
men in the planning for this great Ecumenical 
Council. The complete text of Father Pelton's 
talk u-ill be found in the ALUM.NUS. 
Ttic Mass 1^*35 celebrated at St. Mar>''s Cathedral by Fatlier Pelton; host at the Cathedral was Mon­signor M. V. Haas, Pastor. Breakfast was served at the Mecca Restaurant in Peoria. Co-chairmen for the event were BILL WOMBACHER, '50, and TOM ECKLAND, '53. Guests of the Club for tlic occasion were Football Coacli GrifT McDonald of Spalding Institute in Peoria, his wife, and All-State gridders. Fullback Ste\'c Murphy and Quar­terback Gene Abraliam. 
JACK POWERS, '53, was co-chairman of a Holiday Dance co-5pon<ored with the St. Ambrose College Alumni Club on Friday, December 23. Featuring the music of Walt Coughlin's orcliestra at the Mount Hawle\* Country Club a gala crowd of alumni and students from both schools enjoyed the festive affair. Joe Waugh, President of the St. Ambrose group, was co-cliairman with Jack. 
Our best records show that the Notre Dame Club of Peoria include the following Monogram Club members: JOHN E. CASSIDY, JR., '48; FRANK E. FINNEGAN, JR., '60; JOHN J. JACOBS, '49; RALPH E. JOHNSTON, '30; ROB­ERT E. MANNING, JR., '60; JOHN A. NOP­PENBERGER, '25; JOHN R. POWERS, JR., '53; LEO S. SCHRALL, '29; JOSEPH T. VOEGELE, '34; and JOHN F. WENDLAND, '25. 
Our historical records also show that the Notre 
1961 
»3 

Dame Club of Peoria «-as founded in 1931 bv the late DR. JOSEPH F. DU^VNE. Charier members included JERRY SHEH<\N (dec.), DR. W.\I. W-HALEN (dec.), MSGR. J. J. BURKE (dec), GEORGE SPRINGER (dec.), LEO C.VVANAUGH (dec), SPALDING SLEVIN, SR., '00; JOHN E. CASSIDY, SR., '17; FRANK .MURPHY, '18; 
J. a DOLAN, '22; JOH.V WENDLAND, '23; AL GURY, JR., \\-ER.NER HARTING, J. J. LANGTON, BILL MAY, all '28; LEO SCHR:\LL, ART FULTO.V, AL WELZENBACH, all '29; and JOHN RIDER, '30. These men were all from Peoria and formed ihe nucleus of the club along with several men from Bloomington and other Central Illinois tou-ns. Presidents since Dr. Duane included: 1932, JOHN E. CASSIDY, SR., '17; P 1933, J. J. LANGTON, '28; 1934. LEO CAVA­NAUGH, deceased; 1935. GEORGE SPRINGER, deceased; 1936, AL GURY, JR., '28; 1937. DON 0'.ME.ARA, '28; 1938, ERNEST HECKI.VGER, '32; 1939, WILLIAM J. MOTSETT, 'SJ; 1940, JOHN F. SLOAN, '33: 1941. R,\LPH E. JOH.V­STON, '30; 1942. ROBERT E. WARD, '34; I!M3-46, inactive; 1947, D^VNIEL HECHT, '44: 1948. DON­ALD P. SMITH, '40: 1949. EUGENE SLEVIN, '44; 1950. JAMES KELLY, '43: 1931. LOUIS F. CRYSTAL, '3G; 1952. B. J. GHIGLIERI, JR., '44; 1933-4, JOHN J. JACOBS, '49; 1955, DR. CUVR­ENCE WARD, JR., '44; 1936, JOHN E. CASSIDY, JR., '45; 1937. RICHARD WALSH, '45; 1958, WILLIAM D. CL,\RK, '47; 1939, M. J. CIC­CIARELLI, 53; and 1960, JOHN F. MANION, •36. 
Congrats to Mr. and Mrs. WARREN F. ASH­BAUGH, *56, whose third cliild arrived late in Januar>-, and to Mr. and Mrs. TOM ECKL.-\ND, *53, whose fourth, a daughter, came Feb. 2. 
St. Patrick's Day was planned as the time of the annual St. Pat's Day dance, March 17, at the Peoria Country Club. BILL CLxVRK, '47, u-as named general chairman. 
Universal Notre Dame Night will be the great­est of all time in Peoria, according to general chairman JOHN MANION. It will be celebrated at Mt. Hawley Countr>- Club on April 12. The guest of honor will be Mr. EDWARD (MOOSE) KRAUSE, director of athletics at the University. Master of ceremonies will be B. J. GHIGLIERI, JR., '44. Awards Chairtnan H. A. PETE VON­ACHEN has announced that the Ennio Arfooit Memorial Trophy will go for the fifth time to Manual Training High as the I960 Peoria foot­ball champions. The coach and principal will be present to receive the award from JOHN P. NOP- €)) PENBERGER, '25. 
—JOHN F. MANION, Pres. 

i Philadelphia 
* " The I960 Xotre Oanic Communion Breakfast was held in Philadelphia on December 11. FR. HUGH XOLAX of Immaculala College spoke on 
; the Ecumenical Council, and the Club Trophy 
; gi\xn for the outstanding Catholic high school 
i football player was presented to St. James High, Chester, Pa. outstanding player Frank Gallagher, I elected to the AIl-American Ifigh School Team as I an end, received an engraved watch. Tlie Uni­versity speaker was Mr. BR^\D L^'XX, and JOSEPH M. WHITE, M9, was our chairman for the alTair. 
Universal Xotre Oame Xight will be held on April 15. —BARTO.V B. JOHXSOX, Pres. 
Phoenix 
In early August, I960, a ver\- successful aftcr­

0 noon of golf was followed by a banquet at the Phoenix Country- Club. The banquet was to award two scholarships to Xotre Dame, granted each year to outstanding students in the Phoeiitx area. AVc were happy to report that wc had a number of Well qualified high school seniors apply for Xotre Dame scholarships and the men selected were outstanding. 
In October, a universal Xotre Dame Communion Sunday was ver>- well attended. The breakfast following Mass was held at the Phoenix Counlr>­Club. A fine discussion of the Ecumenical Coun­cil tvas given by FATHER FRAXCIS HARRIXG­TOX, of Brophy High School. 
Once again, the Christmas dance under the aus­pices of the w-omcn's Xotre Dame Club was very successful. Tlie dance was attended by 40 couples and was held at the Paradise Inn Lodge, in Scoits­dale. Mrs. EDWIX CLE.\RY was in charge of 

y this yearly affair. 
It is anticipated that sometime in the spring the Phoenix Xotre Dame Club will sponsor a visit of the X'otre Dame glee club. 
—WILLIA.M J. DUXX, M.D., Secy. 
Pittsburgh 
Tlic annual Christmas Ball at the University Club was one of the best. Over 200 alumni, slu­

; dents, and their ladies attended the froHc. Thanks to Mr. and Mrs. BILL McGOW'AX, who worked so diligently, and to all the girls who made the phone calls. CrVRL LIXIC won the door prize, *'a trip to Europe in a well furnished picnic bas­ket." 
Tlie Retreat at St. Paul's Monaster>- took place 

"^ the week end of January' 5, with 92 relrcatants 
9 taking part. JOHX BRILEY did a fine job in making the arrangements. HUGH lACOVETTI and President PETE FL.\HERTY checked in Sat­urday afternoon for the short course. 
X.D. Communion Sunday was sclicduled for March 5, a family event in the capable hands of BERXIE LYNCH. BISHOP COXNARE of Greensburg was sclicduled as the speaker at break­fast in Webster Hall after Mass at St. Paul's Cathedral. 
Rome 
Following is an extract from a letter of Christ­
mas greetings to all X.D. Clubs in the States: 
*'Our u-armest Christmas Greetings as wc Iiappily 
announce the inauguration of a X'otre Dame alumni 
center in Rome where Xotre Dame men, their 
families, and their friends arc cordially welcomed 
and made to feel at home in Rome. 
"As many alumnt know, this hosting has been an X.D. project for the past five years. Tlianks to the hospitality of the general prupriulor of the Scoglio Di Frisio Restaurant, a horde of pilgrim­aging Irish have been entertained and assisted there. 
"With the increasing infliLX of 'our people' into Rome, it has become evident that we should acquire our own permanent home. So just around the comer from the Scoglio, we are now ensconced in attractive street-level rooms of the Palazzo Brancaccio in the verj- heart of Rome." 
In tune with nexv de\eIopmenls, the roster of new members has lengthened notablv: GORDEX DiREXZO, AB'56, MA'57, is here for a year of rcsearcli toward Iiis doctorate in sociology (and the first one to fall asleep in the new club); JOSEPH iLVRTELL.\RO (of -X.D. faculty) and wife and three sons here on a Fulbright in Eco­nomics; ROYCE HUGHES studying TlieoIog>- at the Angclicum; ORL.\XDO PROSPERI, Law '53, researcliing in legal medicine; BROTHER GA­BRIEL -MURPHY, F.S.C., .MA, Tlieology '60, sta­tioned at General Curia of Christian Brothers. At Xorth /Vmcrican College, JAMES SUCHOCKI, 
X.D.
 '53-55; -MILES RILEY, summer *59; CLARAXCE WAGUESPACK, summer '59; JOHX a\RVILLE. '59-60; DOUGLAS BROUGHER, '58-59; DOUGL.-\S HEXXESSY, '60. Subwaycrs there: JOE JA.MES (brother of TO.M 0'COX*XOR JA-MES, '56); JOHX GROTT (nephc^v- of PHIL WALSH, '29); THO->L\S DORAX (ncphwv of R/\Y DUERST, '26); LAWREXCE BOCK (plain subway); at the Passionist Fathers' house, FATHER 

A.
 SHEEH.VX, aP . (brother of JOHX SHEEHAX, '52); finally, DR. EXXIO aXXIXO, Italian arxJii­tect who was in residence at X.D., and FATHER 


D.VX CURTIX, C.S.C. 
The Pilgrim Pad: BROTHER IV.VX DOLx\X, CS.a ; BILL TULLY, '48, and wife; JI.Nf KEE­GAS, '59; PAUL a\RRICO, '36; REV. xV.XTOXIO BLVXCO, CRSP. Ph.D.'61; HUGH -MURPHY, '59: Ensign TO.M FITZGER^VLD, '60; REV. BERNARD J. COUGHLIX, '26. 
Friends and relatives of: JIM .McDEVITT, '34; DICK DO.VAGHUE, '47; G. F. SCH.AEFER, '30; the LOARIES, DICK, '60, JOHN, JA-MES, THO.M.VS, '&*; RICHARD F. BEXXE, '56; WIL­LIA-M J. -McGHEE, JR., '57 (his dad) DR. WIL­
LIA.\f, SR., '28, reporting); CARL WAGNER, 
'62; E H SHAHEEN, 'St; JACK -MEISTER of 
Miami, his uncle, Msgr. Edward Freking of Stu­
dents Mission Crusade, reporting. 
So here wc are and here is the Welcome Mat c/o: 
NOTRE DAME CLUB 
LARGO BRANCACCIO 82 
Telephone: 730002 
P.S. Grave Omission: Aunt, Uncle, Cousin (the Walls) of Ye Olde .Alumnus Managing Editor, JOHN F. LAUGHLIN! So pcnitentially, we has­ten to add JOHN WALL to subu-ay members at North American College. 
—VLVCE McALOON, '34, Secy. 
St. Joseph Valley 
Most recent Club event since the record-break­ing Football Testimonial Banquet reported last issue was a special testimonial dinner for JOHN 
N. CACKLEY, '37, attended by his many friends in South Bend and at the University. John, leav­ing South Bend after 13 years an assistant director of the N.D. Foundation and editor of the Univer­
.sity magazine, is a past president of the St. Joe Valley Club with an illustrious record. He ac­cepted the post of director of development for Fairleigh Dickinson University, four-time College Quiz Bowl cliamps, in Rutherford, N^.J. .\ special song composed in John's honor by BOB CAHILL, '34, was rendered bv a quartet composed of Bob, ART HALEY, '26; DICK BURKE, '40; and JOHX LAUGHLIN, *48. Among several nonsense gifts, John was presented with a set of matching lug­gage. BOB HOLMES, JOE H.\NNAH and others arranged the affair, and the toastmaster was Presi­dent JOE HICKEY, '50. 
Next events are the Rockne Memorial Com­munion Breakfast and Uni\-crsal Xotre Dame Xight, featuring ^Uumni Secrclarv J.AMES E. AR.MSTRONG, '25, as the University guest. 
St. Louis 
An excursion to the Michigan State game, a \Tsit by FATHER JOYCE, our Communion Break­fast and the annual Christmas Dance sum up the St. Louis Club's activities for the Fall and early Winter. 
0\-er 100 alumni and friends made the special weekend trip to the Michigan State game. TOM McGUIRE was in charge of details and was assisted by other otHccrs and members of the board of directors. 
FATHER JOYCE made an overnight stop in St. Louis to discuss details of the Ford Founda­tion grant with local alumni who will head the special St. Louis Fund Drive. DR. BERT COUGH­LIX and ROLAND DAMES will head two special alumni units to contact local corporations and alumnt. 
fUumnt and friends gathered on Sunday, Decem­bcr 4. for our Communion Breakfast. FATHER GLEX BOARMAN celebrated 9 o'clock Mass ai St. Luke's Parish and a breakfast followed. HER­MAN KREIGEHAUSER and PAT O'.MEARA served as co-chairmen for the affair. 

9  CINCINNATI—Our  Lady of  Cincinnati  College  was  the  scene  of Mass and Breakfast  on Universal Notre Dame Conmiunion Sunday  
with Archbishop Karl J. Altcr^  as special guest, addressing alumni families  on  the significance of the forthcoming Ecumenical CounciL  
\  Notre  Dame Alumnus,  Metrch-Afml, 1961  25  

Students and their friends joined the alumni in 

making our annual Christmas Dance another howl­
ing success. This year's dance %%-as held Friday 
night, December 30, at tlic Khorassan Room of 
Hotel Chase. JIM PUDLO\\'SKl and MATT WEIS 
handled the arrangements. 
—DON RATCHFORD, Pres. 

Saiina 
Ne%v officers of tlic Saiina, Kansas, Club are ALBERT J. SCHWARTZ, president, and NORB 
P. SKELLEY, secretarv-- treasurer. President Schwartz reported to the Club on his week end at the Club Presidents Council at Xotrc Dame. Tlic Club planned a pre-Lent en dinner at the Brookv-ille Hotel, Brookville, Kansas, on Feb. 11. HARRY STUHLDREHER was a \isitor in Saiina last fall and visited with NORB SKELLEY and JIM FOLEY. 
—NORBERT SKELLEY, Secy. 

San Diego 
Xotre Dame and Syracuse got together sooner 

than expected on Jan. 19 here and honors were 
very c\*enly divided. 
.Athletic Director ED KRAUSE held forth here 

on Jan. 19 as master of ceremonies for the seventh 
annual Appreciation Night banquet and Floyd 
(Ben) Schwartzwalder, S>Tacuse University- football 
coacli, was the principal speaker. Among the 800 
guests were more than 350 high school administra­
tors and coaches of San Diego County who were 
the honored guests at this dvic testimonial. 
The banquet is sponsored by St. Augustine High 

School with five Notre Dame alumni ser\'ing on 
the committee. Tlic Verv* Re\-. John R. Aheme, 
O.S..\., St. Augustine principal, was banquet gen­
eral chairman. Notre Dame men assisting him 
were: HOWARD BEILSTEIX, '47, invitations, pro­
grams and tickets; G. R. BILL, '29, principal 
speaker's schedule; THOMAS CARTER, '51, coach­
ing clinic: RICHARD MARTIN, '45, decorations; 
and HARRY MOXAH-AN, '50, publicity, av%ards 
and special guests. 
Martin, local alumni president, arranged a 

breakfast meeting to honor Krause. Some 30 
alumni and friends took advantage of the oppor­
tunity to meet with the ^loose. 
Following the breakfast, Krause and Sch^vartz­

waldcr exchanged \*iews \rith local sports writers 
and telexiston sportscasters. They then had lunch 
with a small group of prep coaclies at St. Augus­
tine. \Vhen Krause adjourned to his hotel suite 
to practice his ad Hbs, Schwartzwaldcr conducted 
a two-liour coacliing clinic for about 100 area 
coaclies. 
At the banquet, Krause staked claim for X'otre 

Dame to the collegiate football cliampionship of 
California in \icw of Irish \-ictories over California 
and Southern California. 
Scliwartzttaldcr explained the mistake Syracuse 

made when hiring him. 
"They told the committee to get a big name 

coacli." he said, "but the>' got confused and hired 
one with a long name." 
The two speakers departed on the same plane from here, each attempting to pump something out of the otlicr that might be useful on that cridiron date X'otre Dame and S^Tacuse have on Nov. 18. 
Krau&c is the second Notre Dame sports offi­cial to play a major role in this San Diego event. TERRY BREXX.AX was the principal speaker at the first Appreciation Night banquet in 1955 fol­lowing his first season as Irish head coach. 
—HARRY MONAH.\N 

South Central Wisconsin 
The first commemoration of Universal Notre Dame Sunday was held December 4th at the eve­ning Mass at St. Dennis Church in Madison. WILLIAM GORGEN, JOHN TOBLN, KEX XIG­LIS, JACK JAEGER and BERNARD MIXTACKI ser\'ed on the program ctimmittce. Following the Mass, the club had a supper meeting at the Em­bers. FATHER RAYMOND KLAAS, \-icc offi­cialis of the ^fadison Diocese addressed the group on some of the goals of the forthcoming Ecumeni­cal Council scheduled during 1962 and abo spoke on the history and accomplishments of other Coun­cils. 
President W1LLIA.M GORGEN of Mineral Point president at the business meeting at which 
initial plans were made to commemorate Universal Notre Dame night on April lOth. —BER.NARD MIXTACKI, "JO, Secy.-Treas. 
Spokane 
The Notre Dame Club of Spokane observed Uni­

versal Notre Dame Communion Sunday on Decem­
ber 4th by attending Mass at the Cathedral of 
Our Lady of Lourdcs. Following the Mass break­
fast was enjoyed in the University Club on the 
Rtdpath Roof. The guest speaker %vas Father 
Michael McAniff, of London, a \isiting instructor 
in Thcolog>* and English at Gonzaga University. 
His talk 'Was most informative and inspirational. 
A special guest of the Club at the breakfast w*as Mike L^Tich, sports writer for The Spokcsman­Re\-ie%v, whom the Club honored for his Io\-aIty to Notre Dame in consistently picking the team to win eacli week during the recent football sea­son. Mike is a Gonzaga University* alumnus and is responsible for the excellent coverage of Notre Dame sports events by his paper. 
Club President BOB MERZ, '47. was toastmaster, and Vice President BERNIE SMYTH, '55, \*-as in cliarge of arrangements. The following mem­bers and their wives attended: MONK ALBO, '35; DR. BOB DE/\K. '53; FRANK HAGEN­BARTH, '27; FRANK HERROX, '35; TOM LALLY, '06; JIM LYXCH, '40, and son James; DR. BOB MAHER, '35; BOB MERZ, '47; BOB ROTCHFORD, '49; DICK ST. JOHX, 'bS; VIXCE SLATT, '43, and son Philip; RALPH SCHULLER, '57; XL PETTIGREW (Gonzaga) and son; and JOE WALSH, '14. 
The annual Holiday Party was enjoyed on De­cember 28th by members, their wives, and by some of the undergraduates with their lovely dates. The delightful open house affair, arranged by the ladies, was held in the pleasantly hospitable home of JIM LYNCH, '40, and lasted into the wee small hours. By happy coincidence, It afforded GARY NrYERS, '59, the opportunity to pass the cigars on the occasion of the birth of his first child, Molly Anne, who had arrived that morning. TIic following Club members and their wives at­tended: DR. BOB DEAK, '53; FRANK HERROX, '35; JIM LYNCH, '40; BOB MERZ, '47; GARY MYERS, '59; JOHN O'NEILL, '29; DR. JI.M ROTCHFORD, '49; \aXCE SLATT, '43; BERXIE SMYTH, '55; and JOE WALSH, '14. Special guests were undergraduates John Heskett. '63; Dennis Johnston, '61; Tim Kiehn, '61; Charles Tilford, '63; and prospective students, Ron Sager-son, Pete Wander, and Jim L\Tich, Jr., all seniors at Gonzaga Prep. 
—JOE \\'ALSH, '14, Scc>-.-Treas. 

Tri-Cities 
December 4th, 1960, we had our Communion breakfast and we were able to have MOST. RE^^ RALPH L. HAYES, Bishop of Davenport, as our main speaker. 
December 24th, we had our Father and Son Luncheon irith fifty some odd in attendance. GEXE DUFFY spoke for the Alumni and Jim Xaab for tlic students. TOM BRITT, '52, was in charge of the program. 
Tlie picture In this issue shows the Communion breakfast featuring Bishop Hayes. C/VRL LIEB­SCHER \«*as in charge of this program. g
—WILLIAM L. Mca\BE, Secy. ' 

Twin Cities 
TIic Twin Cities Club held the annual Christmas 
Ball on December 13 in the Hall of States at the 
Lemington Hotel, Minneapolis. PETER J. Cx\N­
NON, '56, was chairman of the ball. 
Officers and directors of the Club are: JOSEPH 
T. O'NEILL, '53, president; EDWARD T. HAG­ERTY, '51, vice-president; EDWARD J. GORDON, '57, secretarv-; and PETER J. CxVXNOX, treas­urer. JAMES A. BYRXE, '40, is chairman of a board consisting of ROBERT E. CULLIGAX', '51; GEORGE F. HEI.MEL, JR., '52; THOMAS P. \fcDOXALD, '57: GER^VLD E. McKAY, '30; JOHN W^ McMAXUS, '53; THO.M.AS K. REIS, '41; J. PETER RFITEX, '55; and JOHX D. YEL­LAXD, '30. 
Washington, D.C. 
In order to add a little merriment to the Christ­
mas Season, the Washington Club planned a cock­
tail party on December 26 at the home of ^f^. 
and Mrs. JOHN GAINE In Chevy Chase. Mr. 
Gatne is not an alumnus, but he is a parent and 
an active X'otre Dame booster. 
A revision of the mailing list and a dues dri\*e were conducted recently by the treasurer, JOE XL\LONEY. Board Chairman CLIFF LETCHER announced the formation of two nominating com­mittees; under chairman JOSEPH BORDA, WIL­LIAM MAY and EDWARD T. WALSH; under chairman JOSEPH DALEY, RICHARD SCHOEN­FELTER and EDWARD FENLOW. Candidates for president arc inctmibcnt ROBERT N. HUTCHI­SON and JAMES J. GILLIS; Wee-president, JAMES F. XURTEX and JOHX" E. WOOD; secrctar>% ALBERT \lROSTEK and JAMES L. .. SCHRADER; treasurer. THOMAS E. BAKER •• and JOSEPH P. MALOXEY. Candidates for the board are DR. JAMES M. CORCOR/\N, PHIL MALOXEY, JOHX L. KEXKEL and CLIFF LETCHER. 
A meeting Februarv 14 at the Shcraton-Carlton featured a talk by ROBERT W. QWAXAUGH of the W'orld Bank and discussion of the annual St. Patrick's Day Party, Universal Xotre Dame Xight (chairmen Dick Schoenfclter and Joe Boorda, respectively), community service program (chairman JOHN DANIELS), and a report on the recent Club Presidents Council by President BOB HUTCHIXSOX. 
Western Washington 
Universal Xotre Dame Communion Sunday was held on Sunday, December 18. Mass u-as celebrated ^ at St. James Catlicdral, Seattle, and breakfast fol­lowed at the Washington Athletic Club. Guest of honor was ERXIE TIMPAXXI, superintendent at the Washington State Reformatorj*, Monroe. FRED HOOVER vvas chairman. 
\ smoker was held February 9 at the College Club, featuring football movies, games, and re­freshments. TOM MAY was chairman. 
NEW YORK—^At New York CIuVs Conunumon Brunch were (1. to r.) Gus Hardart, '42, co-chairman; Father Joyce from Notre Dame; Tom Walker, '42, son of the late Frank C. Walker, presenting $1,000 check from the Club in memory of his father; Peter Campbell t 
Brown, guest speaker; and Tom Murphy, co-chairman. 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 
An intellectual.service of the University o£ Notre Dome 
for the constant enrichment-of the minds ^ ,• of Notre Dame's diverse family. 



thesBblineTliiDITIOlll 
in  -, ~\  
Catholics Have ExcommunicatedAnd Have Made the Artist a  Beauty Stranger  From Their Lives \ in Our Churches'   .'  
BY REV.  ANTHONY JOSEPH  LAUCK,  C.S.C.  

R
EADING the eighth chapter of St. John's Gospel is like reading a story about our contemporary artists. The chapter, as you may know, tells about Our Lord teach­ing in the temple, and the hostility of the Jews and Sanhedrin there. The Lord tries to bring truth to them, but they reject it. In the same way the artist tries to bring beauty to the church in our day, and he, too, is often rejected. We might 
say the artist is cast out of the temple. 

I hope that the reader will forgive the making of this parallel between the Holy One of God and poor, wretched artists. Nevertheless, there is a strong-parallel, however vast the unlikeness. Our Lord was stoned and driven from the temple. Contemporary artists, too, have often been verbally stoned and their works literally cast out of the temples. 
A few years ago a modem church was built in the East. An artist decorated the ceilings with a series of distinctive angel patterns, made from brass tubing. They were meant for decorations, not likenesses. (Likeness! Who ever photo­graphed an angel?) Those who know about such things agreed that the angel patterns were handsome, animated decorations. But some of the parish people felt that they seemed to be caricatures. And so they were removed from the church. 
A certain well-known sculptor carved and cast a large, simple statue of St. Jude for a church in New Jersey. To give the design more interest and variety, the artist shaped the body from a beautiful, dark tropical wood, and the head and hands in polished metal. It was not a realistic image of St. Jude. There were no crystal eyes or pink cheeks. It was a strong, virile sculpture.' This St. Jude looked as though his prayers might have weight in heaven. However, some children in the school called the image "old steel-head"! I hope it was not because of a few irreverent children — but the image was taken from the temple. 
There are other examples like these, but we need not elabor rate further. The contemporary artist has been cast out of the temple many times and in many places. That is the point to be made. If his work has not been, removed, perhaps it was iiever allowed inside. 
How have artists reacted to this treatment? Many of them simply turn to secular subjects and sell to secular patrons. "We have an example of this group in northern Indiana, Harriet Rex Smith;' Mrs. Smith wrote her views in an excellent arti­cle, a few years ago, which appeared in the Catholic World. Zealous at first to put her talents to use for the church, she found nothing ibut resistance and discouragement for her efforts. Before we can put much beauty in a church, she said, we must take a lot. of ugliness out of it. In most cases, that 
means taking almost everything out of it. 

It was such an impossible task that Mrs.. Smith for a long' ' time abandoned the idea. She devoted what time she found 
from homemaking to secular art, such as landscape .painting. 
Not long ago a. large landscape of hers won the Grand Prize 
at the Indiana State Fair in Indianapolis. So far as I know, 
this artist has-had few opportunities to. add beauty to some 
chm-ch. ., ' . ­
O
THER artists 'interested, in religious subjects continue to. 
produce them, but sell them to those outside the Church. 
In St. Louis a few years ago I met an artist from the South. 
She has set up.a^mall shop there where she sells her own 
Father Lauck, a prize-winning sculptor and a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1950, became head of the University's art department-September 1, 1960.-In addition to his sculpture in stone, wood and other Tnaterials,\ Father Lauck has _specialized in stained and mosaic glass. He de­signed the stained glass walls for the chapel and library of the new Moreau Seminary on the Notre Dame camptts. 
A native of Indianapolis, Ind., Father Latiek received a professional diploma in fine arts as a layman from The John Herron Art Institute there in 1936. Befcnre joining the Notre Dame facidty, he received a diploma in advanced sculpture from the Corcoran School of Art,. Washington, D. C. He also has studied under Carl Milles, the late Swedish sculptor, and Ivan Mestrpvic, who is noxo teaching at' Notre Dame.-Father Lauck has received many national and regional awards for his sculpture. His walnut sculpture, "St. John Beside the Cross,", won the Fairmount Park Purchase Prize and can be seen at the Pennsylvania Academy of Art.in Philadelphia. His "Monk at Prayer," a limestone sculpture, won the Widener Gold Medal. Other., honors -include ike Leonard^ Cantor Award for Sculpture, the Myron Feinberg Prize'for ' Sculpture, and the Distinguished Citation of the John Herron Art Institute. ' ^ . •^­
Father Lauck has served as an art consultant and a. member of several art.juries. He Has lectured on sacred art at several colleges and universities. He is a member of the Audubon Artists, the hidianapolis Art -Association, the Provincetown Art Association and the Newport Art Associa­tion. He contributes to .many periodicals, including -Ave Maria magazine, from which much of this material is taken ­with the kind permission of the editors. ' 
"It's pretty, but is it art.'"—Rudyard Kipliiig 
handicraft. It is religious work, hut Catholics do not seem to appreciate its beauty. This no longer Jjothers the artist. "Catholics are asleep," she told me simply, "so I. sell my work to Protestants." 
There are many good painters and sculptors today who pro­duce nothing of a sacred nature. ^Vhether they are Catholic, Protestant, or pagan, some of them are capable of creating fine images, handsome designs appropriate for our churches, chapels or hoines. But they do not. They have looked into church goods display windows and stores; they look into the churches of their towns, and they see little or nothing to indi­cate that the church is interested in art. They feel that the church is indeed asleep to tlie growing, blossoming movements in art today, asleep to the vast possibilities for putting new materials and new forms to work in the house of God. 
Our best office buildings, bridges, homes, and even factories, are of the 20th century. Our churches, in most instances, are still of the 13th century! The artist is discouraged at this. In the great periods of art, it was religion that prodded beauty out of the artist for its temples. This was so in the grand periods of the Byzantine, Romanesque and Gothic It was true earlier in the Egyptian and Chinese too. But today we are not even curious to visit the studios of the artist. We go to the comer store instead, and buy factory-made ware. So our artiste are castaways. They go to church on Sunday and work for Mammon on Monday. 
Some Catholic artists do not go to church any more. One such artist, whose name you know if you know your American art, belongs to this unfortunate group. He told me that his reason for falling away was that the Church seemed to hold a careless, antiquated attitude toward art and beauty. It is a silly reason perhaps, but it is the reason this man gives, and he is a serious man. Beauty to an artist, after all, is a serious purpose. "^ 
We tend to forget the artist's feelings on another score. We have heard people complain now and then that they cannot 
•' look at such and such a picture in a church. These people forget that there, are many artists who go to church too. These artists must look at many a painting and statue and ornament there which makes them wince. They have had to look at these unlovely objects, denials of all their noblest ideals, for years. Let us hope the experience has not weakened their pity!, 
L
EST we weep for unworthy victims, let us define the con­temporary artist. The contemporary artist is one who is living in our times, and creating good vital work, work that is of our time. A contemporary work of art ought to reflect our way of life, and our way of treating matters spiritual and holy, our way of serving and loving God. In any sincere definition of a contemporary artist, there is the idea that he is genuine, creative, personal, original. What such an artist produces, I think, will be of our time, and will reflect our spirit. His character and his paints will somehow merge upon his canvas. Not every good artist of our time will,become im­mortal in the annals of art history. He will not always possess that touch, that fingerprint of the muse, which sets him apart as genius. But if he is good, he will have judgment, taste and honesty. He will design w:eU, draw with an understanding of structure, let his feelings overflow into his work, and produce painting or sculpture which stands up. This artist need not grow long hair or a beard. Instead of the traditional smock, . he may wear overalls. 
What is meant by "contemporary artist" may become clearer if w^e mention what he is not. He is not a man who paints from a' pattern. He is not one who copies what some­one else has done, no matter how accurately. You will seldom or never find him in the shops which produce church goodsl 
Where shall we find a good contemporary artist? You may have to search for him, but there are a few in almost any sizeable town. When you find him, he will probably be sur­prised that you want him —poor fellow. But he can be fotmd. 
-Perhaps hevis not far away. _ , Placing the artist in the role of a castaway, "we are, of ' 
course, taking to task those who have cast him out. Obviously, ^ there are many works of art which have no place in the church, either because they are inferior as art, or inappropriate as sacred art. We do not blame anyone for the rejection of such work. The difficulty comes in deciding what is art and what 
' is not, or what is fitting in the church and what is not. Of those who decide what shall be placed in the house of God, too many are riot competent to make such decisions. Whether they are the reverend pastors, religious superiors,, building com­mittees, or altar societies, they may have no valid judgment in matters of art. They are too seldom vrilling to go forth in search of such authority. 
Those who buy for the church or chapel usually take the simplest means. They go to the nearest store and select some ready-made bauble. This is why so few churches have char­acter or distinction. St. Michael's looks pretty much like St. M Agatha's or Holy Angels'. Now, without any doubt a church would have more character, more of a personality of its own, if the painting and sculpture that went-into it were originals. And this is desirable for another reason, a more important reason: obedience to the Holy See, 
In the Instruction on Sacred Art which came from Rome not long ago (July 1952), the Holy Office rules that there was to be no "stereots^ped art" in the churches. If we go from church to church and find little or ho difference between the statues of, say the Blessed Virgin, surely we must classify these statues as stereotyped. Hence they may be reprehensible in the eyes of the Holy See. The obedient buyer, who wishes to follow this direction from the Vatican, will deliberately seek out works of art which are original, especially created for it by first-rate artists, regardless of additional expense. M 
In nothing that I ,say, do I wish to imply that our good 
•pastors and superiors are neglecting their churches. On the whole they are most solicitous. They are careful about furni­ture and furnishings, as well as the condition of decorations. They spend as much as, maybe more than, they can afford to keep the holy places tidy and trim. The linen, vesture, and furnishings are always of good quality — as they should be — and often the finesL. But there is, of course, a difference be­tween a well-kept building and a beautiful one. Expensive decoration is one thing. Beautiful decoration is quite another. 
Who can decide whether a given painting or sculpture has any real artistic merit? Almost no one is competent to do this except artists, museum people, and perhaps a few experienced 

A BASIC LIBRARY FC 

BARR, ALFRED H . Masters of Modem Art. Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday, 1959. (Mus. of Modern Art). $16.50 
BELL, CLIVE [ ^ Art. N.Y., Putnam, 1959. (Capricorn) paper ?1.25.­
' f) 

BERENSON, BERNARD -, > ' Italian Painters of the Renaissance. Garden City, N.Y., Doublc­. day (Phaidon) 1957. rev. ed. §8.50. 
• i . 
CHENEY, SHELDON \ .Story of Modem 'Art. N.Y., Viking, 1958. $7.95 
FRY, ROGER . . , Transformations. Garden City, N.Y.,.Doubleday, 1956. (Anchor A 77) $1.45 papen \ 
.Vision and Design. N.y., Meridian, n.d. (Meridian M 33) paper $1.45. •' 
"IVe must speak for our times, in the language of our time, of the things o/ Goi"—-Cloud H. ^Meinberg, O.S.B.' 
Q connoisseurs and bona fide dealers in art. Surdy if any house deserves the best, it is God's house. The best decoration; be­longs there today, just as it belonged there in the great ages before our time. Then it is surely wise and prudent to bring this matter of art selection to the attention of competent judges. 
The buyer has been led to believe that church goods manu­facturers know a work of art when they see one, and so he appeals to them. The best commentary, on the dealers' judg­ment is what one finds in their windows and catalogues. These commodities reflect their want of discernment or taste. 
I
N speaking of the dealer in religious articles, I do not refer to the retail dealer, but rather to producers who design and market the multitude of sugar-coated horrors for us. > The 
9 small dealer is manacled. Both the manufacturer and the customer have him handcuffed. He can buy only what is avail­able to him. If the catalogues contain nothing but aesthetic rubbish^ rubbish he must sell. The customer is often just as bad and blameworthy as the manufacturer. If the dealer foimd objects of beauty, the customer might not buy them any­how. The customer is so habituated to seeing images of Our Lord, Our Lady, the saints and angels, which look like painted dolls, that he cannot imagine finding anything else there, much less asking to see it. 
Is this rejection of the artist justified in our times? Is there good reason for refusing his work? In many cases there is not. Here are a few reasons for rejection that an artist often hears — his work is said to look unnatural, or it is accused of being awkward, or it is termed irreverent. Other causes for ^ condemnation may boil down to these. Let us weigh these con­demnatory words, "unnatural," "awkward," and "irreverent." 
Is it wrong to allow a picture of some saint in our church which looks unnatural? An image is usually called unnatural when its proportions or features dilfer from normal anatomical ones. Maybe the eyes are larger than usual, the face a bit longer or flatter. But this is not what makes a painting bad. Too many of us still have the incorrect idea of the artist's function. It is not to copy nature. That is the proper fimction of the camera. 
The artist's job, rather, is to see beyond the superficial ap­pearances, to go beneath the surface, to probe into the sub­stance of things. He may therefore distort, or exaggerate, or simplify his image. He emphasizes what seems important about 
i 


ART APPRECIATION ' 
• \^ 

MARITAIN,-JACQUES Art and Scholasticism. Xondon, Sheed & Ward, 1930, 1954. 8 s., 6 d. 
Creative Intuition in Art. and Poetry. N.Y., Pantheon, 1953. 
$7.50. N.Y., Meridian, 1955. (Meridian—M8) paper, $1.55. 
HUMFORD, LE%V1S , ­
Sticks and Stones. N.Y., Dover, (no date) 2d ed. paper, $1.60. 
/• .. '• •/ • i 
REM), HERBERT Philosophy of Modern Art. N.Y., Meridian, 1952, paper, $1.45 
WiLENSKI, R. H . 
Modem Movement in Art. N.Y., Yoseloff, 1957. $8.50. (Plus, several books in print on Italian, French, Flemish painting, etc.) , 
Recommended but apparently out of print are Beauty Looks After Herself and other books by Eric Gill. 
his subject. He ignores and discards what seems irrelevant. If a hand is seven inches long, but his idea is better.expressed with an eight-inch hand, he may stretch it. The idea is the thing, the expression, the design. Oil the walls of the cata­combs, the early Christians used to love to paint Our Lord's eyes two or three times as large as normal eyes," to brin^ out the truth that nothing was hidden from His sight. 
So long as we cling to the notion that our art must copy and imitate nature, we are cheating ourselves. We limit and cripple our appreciation of art. We are walling ourselves off from gardens that we might enjoy. And if we have anything to do with religious art, we are preventing beauty from entry into our church, our family shrines, or at least, our religious thought. An artist can bring us a richer, more vivid existence. We ought not curb and restrain him. We ought not insist that every detail of art be a mathematical copy of nature, or the deceptive superficiality of many of its faces. '-, / 
Decorations in the catacombs and ancient shrines were often symbols, simple patterns which signified something big and important to the Christian. They were a sort of code language, a doctrinal shorthand.' We still use these symbols, like the fish or the Chi Rho. There would be nothing.wrong with adding to our collection of symbols.- It is natural in every age for old words to take on new meanings, or for new words to be added to the language. If a language is alive, it is al­ways changing, developing, growing. Read a. page of• Shake­speare, or-even an old newspaper from the "roaring 20's'' and you will prove this to yourself. So too, if Christian art is to come alive and live in health, it must be permitteil to change and develop; and grow. Our artists today are brimming over with new thoughts, new ideas, new forms. Many of them might make living symbols, fresh figures, significant types and em­blems to connote and indicate the truths of our Faith. 
In this role of symbol-making, our artist? of today may prove strongest of all. Perhaps it is in this category of the symbol or sign that contemporary art best fits. Contemporary art belongs somewhere inthe church. It is too good to be total­ly cast out. These craftsmen have an exceptional command of geometric pattern and abstract design. They may create a series of lines and shapes which, while they do not exactly, represent human anatomy, still do suggest and resemble. It' is conceivable at least that such shapes and lines may be so drawn and related together in a pattern, that they look very busy and alive and active and energetic They might so sug­gest a saint who was busy, active, energetic to spread the word of God and the love of, Christ to all nations. It is entirely possible that a well-arranged abstract design, composed of mere lines and shapes, might tell us a lot more about some saint than some of our pale pink, lifelike but lifeless, imagoes of him. This geometric shorthand might leave a more lasting impression upon us, too. ' -; 
The second reason given for rejecting contemporary art from the church is its apparent awkwardness. I am afraid we are talking about anatomy again, when we use the,term "awkward" or "clumsy," lacking grace or ease of posture. Often it is not so much that the image lacks grace, as that our minds lack judgment about art. Either we have addicted ourselves to seeing certain- poses and gestures in 'our church statuary, or we are too demanding upon physical grace --in the attitudes of the human figure. But there is a grace and ease and rhythm in art, which.has nothing to do with physical movements or pose. The artist may detach himself from -the demands of anatomy—bones or muscles or body contours — and arrange his figure rather so that it forms a balanced de­sign, a harmonious arrangement of parts, perhaps an arrange­ment which exalts theinind above nature. ' [ • . 
L
ET us consider one more reason why the artist is rejected. His work seems irreverent. Maybe the -work to be con­sidered is a sculptured figure. All of us have-seen paintings, and sculpture which seems irreverent, which seemed to lack the dignity befitting sacred subjects. Some of these works did belong outside the church. They may be good but they belong in an art museum, rather than the house of God. It is true. 
"It is the treating of the commonplace with the feeling of the sublime that gives to art its true ^poa;<r."—Jean-Francois Millet 
however, that this quality of reverence is to some extent a 'personal thing and a local matter. For example, we may stand in a certain position which we consider noble or graceful, and 
a. foreigner with his foreign background and customs might disagree with us. Again, the images one finds in the temples of India represent' deities and noble personages to the Indian. To our eyes some of them are quite undignified or downright irreverent Now it is well for us to put paintings and sculp­tures into our churches which show Our Lord, Our Lady, the saints and angels in a-reverent and dignified way. But we may 
-be too,demanding, too "confining. Perhaps we confuse affecta­tion and formality with inherent dignity. 
Sometimes the image of a saint possesses features or takes ;a pose that calls our attention to it insistently. We are ac­~ customed to images so weak and dull, perhaps, that we never 
bother to look at them, once we know they are there. So, an 
image which -jolts our consciousness, strikes our eyes, prods 
us,.arrests our attention, disturbs us a little, may seem in-­
appropriate in church. We are not used to this encroachment 
upon our private thoughts (and maybe our distractions) in 
church. But if we were more patient, perhaps such an image 
would profit us. What might at first appear merely disturbing 
might in time come to be a very effective and compelling image, 
effecting repeated remembrance of this holy personage, com­
pelling prayers and petitions from us. 
We must always remember the function of the image in the church. Why do we put images in church? Apparently the iconoclasts forgot the reason. Iconoclasts did a lot of damagc^and marred a lot of beauty! The picture or statue in the church is not somebody, but an image of somebody. We are rmt praying to the picture. We are praying to the person it represents. The statue is a reminder, an aid to piety. It is not an idol. 
•What I am trying to suggest here is this. Most of us in the Church-have misunderstood and neglected today's artists. The reasons for this neglect are not always good ones. In many cases the artist does not mind. But the Church is the loser.' The artist has something to give to the Church. He is producing things of beauty. He could produce a lot more, specifically for the Church, if that institution would encourage him and show him sympathy. 
How can we bring about a closer tie with religion and art? Who can help us? What shall we do? Three elements will be very hdpful—books, works of art, and artists. 
- Books can help ns a lot. Read more about art and artists. I do noc suggest much biography. Those who write the life story of an artist feel constrained to look for neurotic or coarse interludes, incidents to suggest that the artist was 
.especially odd or queer or indecent. An artist can be just as normal and sane as those in other walks of life. Read good books, about art, or magazines, those which are profuse with pictures. Find the ones which discuss the work, and tell you about i t There are essays which tell you why a thing is good — or bad. Bernard Berenson is a good writer in this vein. So are Olive Bell and Roger Fry, Lewis Miunfofd and Alfred Barr. -Some of the younger writers are less clear. 
A
FTEB a few good books, you may find your interest grow­ing. You may want to see some examples of art firsthand, not reproduced in the pages of a book but in the original— ; tiie i« d painting in oil hanging on a wall, the real bronze sculpture standing in space before you. Then you are ready, as never before, to go to an art museum! You will probably enjoy the expexiencs. You can develop a fair judgment by visiting local museums, enjoying works of art by people in your own locality. I once heard a citizen of our town call it an : "intellectual desert," a place barren of any appreciation of the finer things. I do not think that is true in our generation. There are good competent artists near to you and near to me. It is quite i>ossible that some of them can create for .us good creditable works of art for sacred purposes. ­
If you should enkindle a deep, live interest-in art, reading about it in books, looking at good examples of it,- you your­self ,eonld be-useful to God as an instrument of beauty. In time yon would refine in yourself the kind of selective judg-( ment which can discmC what is art from what is not You could in time procure sacred art for your home at least,-, if-, 
-not for the church. For in your pursuit of beauty you will have learned where you"can find it, you.will have become familiar with the names of-certain artists of our time, with-museum people, teachers of art, or those who possess a gen­uine love for the subject 
I do not mean to insist that you must go through a long, ­time-consuming process of study before you caii get some beauty into your hands. Some of us are far too busy to open many books in a year. Some of us have few hours for the museums and g^alleries of art But all of us can dp a little. All of us can improve our interest in real art All of us can find a friend or acquaintance whose judgineiit in art-is bet­ter .than our own, when the time comes to choose a religious i picture or statue for our home, club, or church. 
Suppose, for instance, yon wanted a painting of St..Peter for your home. You have never seen one in an exhibition. With such people as I have mentioned, you can discuss your desire. You,can outline the life of Peter to your artist, what impresses yon most about .bun; and what you would like to see in his image. Of course, he is a saint Somehow the statue ought to have ascertain dignity, not sweetness or sentimental­ity. It ought'to have an air of sanctity about it From such a description, you arid your friends might pick out an artist. And in time you may have something most desirable and most rare—a sacred subject which is also a work of art 
One thing more. We have tried to be practical in this article. To be eminently practical, we must mention also cost and expenses. A work of art is more expensive than factory-made ware. It costs an artist more, too, in thought and talent, ^ 
' in time and effort The prices ^ attached to paintings some­times raise one's eyebrows. But the price is normally an honest one. When we consider how much has gone into it, we can realize the intrinae value of such a work. Here is something more than a commodity off some production line. It is the careful, loving work of aTperson, a creation formed from the best that he has. Years of learning and feeling and labor are poured into a work of art It is usually the only one of its kind. It will never take this same form again. It is, as the curator puts it, "an original." An artist gives something of himself" to you with his handiwork, so intimately does his personality enter into what he has done. The ready-made statue can be flopped out of a mold and tinted in a few hours. A good painting may be labored over for a week or a year. \ The genuine artist cannot possibly compete with factory prices. But the factory cannot compete with the artist in the matter of quality. .-_ _^ 
Surely, anything as noble^as art—above all, art in a sacred vein—is not to be measured in terms of price. Art is more like jewelry. If it is precious, it is also costly. And 
- in a family home, a work of art should become one of the most treasured of heirlooms, passing down from generation to generation. 
The artist is a kind of castaway in our time. He is either misunderstood or ignored. Our Lord once said'the laborer was worthy of his hire. But this man's labor, a most refined and painstaking labor, is set at little value. Worse, he is simply not hired. He cannot compete with that, monstrous maker of wares without beauty, the production line. He thirsts in a | desert of frustration, while the church thirsts in a drought of ugliness. Only the artist can opeii the fountains of beauty. If only-these two; the diurch'knd the artist, came closer to­gether! -^ -, 
-^ No doubt a happy ending can be added to this story one day. I hope weshaU see this happy day, gloriousday for art, when there comes a renascence and awakening to true beauty, when the churches of America will be radiant with a lavish , 
, Easter of creative design, harmonious color, resplendent form, and expressive decoration. • ' ' y ' 
Then, when we recite with the Psalmist, "I have loved the beauty of Thy house," its meaning will dawn upon us like' the dawn of .an Easter, and we shall say it with fervor and ­gladness! ':-. , ., 
"Perpetual modemness is the measure of merit in every work of art."—R. W. Emerson 
•H 
The Chicago Real Estate Board, and the NoUi Dame Club of Chicago. In 1949, Mr. Kanaley re 
ceivcd an honorary degree from the University He is survived by his wife, three daughters, a son a brother, fifteen grandchildren and se^'en great grandchildren. 
ALUMNI ClAsSBS % 
LESLIE P. FURLONG, '05, died in Tacoma^ 
Engagements 
Miss Marjoric A. Scatiiorcliio and ELMER M. .MATTHEWS, '47. Sliss Judith ;\. Castellini and JOH.V .V. S.AX­DERS, '49. Miss Maria Lane Cos and BERNARD J. CON­NOR, JR., '54. 

Miss Eliiabetll A. Kellcrer and JOHN A. .A-MAN, ^ '55. 
Miss Eleanor Smilli Malier and CHARLES C. COLLLNS, JR., '33. Miss Maria Isabel dc Marchena and JUAN RAFAEL PACHECO, JR., '56. Mfas Anne L. Zanctti and JOSEPH Li\WRENCE SPIEGEL, '56. Miss Jane McCormick and TERRY CROWLEY, '37. Miss Adriana M. llasclicrin and ROBERT LA­LOR, '57. Miss Angela A. LaGuardia and PETER DAVID BARNES, '39. Miss Janet Isher\.ood and LT. KEVIN M. CRO.VIN, '60. Miss Katlierinc M. Butler and CLAIBORNE HOLT JOHNSON, JR., '60. Miss Angela M. Shecrin and LT. ROBERT B. SIENKO, '60. 

o 
Marriages 
Miss Margaret De Coursev Collins and AN­THONY JOHN KENNEDY, '54, Conshohocken, Pa., November 26. 
Miss Sheila Marie Calan and GEORGE RICH­ARD DONAHUE, '33, Chicago, III., Nov. 23. Miss Joan Marie Meistcr and DONALD H. LUECKE, '55, Vailsburg, -X.J., Nov. 26. Miss Julie Marie Gilmore and JOHN K. REILLY, '55, Ne«' Rochellc, N.Y., Nov. 26. -Miss Sharon Hucllel and ROBERT J. COLZANI, '56, Salt Lake City, Utah, Nov. 2. Miss Margaret Phelan and EDWARD H. GREEN, 

III, '57, Beaumont, Texas, Nov. 23. -- Miss Rosemarj- Murphy and VIRGIL J. LU­WNARDIXI, JR., '58, Columbus, Ohio, Sept. 24. 
Miss Jeanne Kaup and RAYMOND J. GRUBBE, '59, West Point, Nebraska, Sept. 3. Miss Barbara Ililger and GEORGE JHCHAEL R^NAHAN, '59, Columbus, Ohio, July 16. -Miss Margaret Joe Green and R,\LPH H.VN-RAHv\N SAUER, '60, Beaumont, Texas, .Vov. 2G. 
Births 

Dr. and .Mrs. FRANCIS E. SCHLUETER, '35, a son, Mav 2, 1960. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH F. HARTZER, '40, a son. Jonathan Pace, December 23, 1960. Mr. and .Mrs. GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR., '44. a daughter, Cynthia Marie, January 24, 1961. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM J. WALDROX, JR., fk '44, a son, Robert Edward. Nov. 14, 1960. " Mr. and Mrs. VINCENT G. L.AURITA, '45, 
a son, January 16, 1961. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES F. WELTER, '48, a son, Theodore John, De c 18, 1960. .Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM BROCKHOFF, '49, a daughter, Mar\- Ann, Dec. 8. 1960. -Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT V. CLEARY, JR., '49, a daughter, Dec. 27, I960. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD CLEARY, '30, a son, Michael Joseph, Dec. 25, I960. .Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH E. HICKEY, '50, a son, Feb. 3, 1961. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL F. HOPPER, '51, a daugh­ter, Mary Lynn, May 29, I960. .Mr. and .Mrs. JAMES C. ETLING, '32, twin girls. October 26, 1960. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. DILENSCHNEIDER, 
'53, a son, Theodore Sigmund, Nov. I, 1960. ^ Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS ECKLAND, '53, a r daughter, February 2, I96I. 
Mr. and Mrs. DAVID V. HAYES, '53, a son, Brian James. 
A^ VnVlW.Wnd'A-^i^dVl/W^'^^rtVWWWlf V, 
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL E. FORSM,\N, JR., '54, a son, AVilliam Andrew, Nov. ?Xi, 1960. .Mr. and Mrs. E. JAMES CL.ARK, JR., '53, a daughter. Colleen Marie, Oct. 27, 1960. .Mr. and -Mrs. ROBERT CERVAIS, '55, a son, Timothy Michael, December 11, 1960. -Mr. and Mrs. WARRE.\ F. ASHBAUGH, *56, a son, Januar\*, 1961. -Mr. and Mrs. CHRISTOPHER REITZE, '56, a son, Christopher, IV, Dec. 28, I960. -Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT T. GALL^V, '57, a son, Christopher Michael. November 28, 1960. Mr. and -Mrs. D.WID B. MURPHY, '57, a daughter, Kathleen Ann, January 3, 1961. Mr. and Mrs. GARY -MYERS, '39, a daughter, Molly Anne, December 28, 1960. Mr. and .Mrs. JOHN P. O'NEILL, '59, a daugh­ter, Catherine Anne, December 3, 1960. 
Sympathy 

LAWRENCE CULLINEY, '28, on the death of his mother, .August 26. 1960. BERNARD D. BROEKER, '30, on the death of his wife, Kathcrinc, December 6. I960. JULES K. de la VERGNE, '33, on the death of his mother, January 19, 1961. JOHN J. GILR.\NE, '40, on the death of hb mother, December 31. 1960. CHARLES, V. CRIMMINS, '41, on the death of his mother, November 12. 1960. 
MAURICE S., '42, and THO.MAS J. KELLY, '49. on the death of their father, December 6, 1960. 
FR.ANK W. '43 and JOSEPH KASPER, '31, on the death of their father, October, 1960. DR. DANIEL J. ROURKE, '44, on (he death of his father, December. 1960. GEORGE T. GMnTER, '47, on the death of his father. August 20, 1960. GEORGE R. a\H,\NEY, '49, on the death of his father. D.ANIEL J. NOR,\NDER, JR., '30, on the death of his mother, November 20, I960. DE.-\N D. DRISCOLL, '52, on the death of his father, September 5, I960. ROBERT J. SULLIV/\N, '52, on the death of his mother, N'ovember 13. 1960. E.\S. JOHN P. EDWARDS, '59, on the death of his father, Fcbruar\-, 1960. CILVRLES O. STEPHE.\S, '39, on the death of his father, Mav. I960. FR,\NK ax'uCHOX, '60, on the death of his father, January, 1961. 
Deaths 

EDWARD P. MOR^\N*, *94. of LouisWIIc, Ken­tucky, died November 9, 1960, according to informa­tion received from his \vifc. 
UlLLUM F. BRrVUCHLER, W, of Canton, Oliio, died J3nuar>* 27, I960, after an extended ill­ness, ^fr. Braucldcr was chief engineer for a long period at the old Canton Steel Works and also assisted his father in the engineering field and built many Portland Cement Co. plants both in the United States and Canada. His stirx'ivors in­clude his widow and a son. 
G. A. FARABAUGH, A.B. '0+, of South Bend, Indiana, died January 6, 1961. After recetWng his law degree in 1907, he became associated with the law firm of Hubbard, Farabaugh and Pettengill. In 1910, he was elected to the bench in city court, t»*hcrc he n'as the first to maVe extensive me ol the probation system for first ofTcnders. At the time of his death, he was the senior member of the law firm of Farabaugh, Chaplcau and Roper. He is survived bv his wife, a daughter, and three sons. 
.MSGR. AfAURICE GRIFFIX, W , of Cleveland, Ohio, died January 26, 1961, according to word received in the Alumni Office. Msgr. GrifHn also received an honorary degree from Notre Dame in 1922. 
BVROX V. KANALEV, W, of Chicago, Illinois, died December 4, 1960. He %vas former president of the ^(ortgage Bankers .-Vssociation of America, 
Notre 

Washington, according to information received ii 
the Alumni Office. 
REV. WILLIAM F. CUNNINGHAM, C.S.C., '07, died January* 19, 1961, hx the Student Infirmarj on the Notre Dame campus. At the time of hia death. Father Cunningham was a professor ol education and vice president of the National Catho­lic Educational Association. Except for a five-yeai period when lie was dean and professor of educa­tion at the College of St, Thomas, Father Cun­ningham taught at Notre Dame. He received an honorary doctor of law3 degree last August at commencement "for his \'aluable contributions to public and private education in North and South America." 
EDUTN J. LYNCH. '10, of Toledo, Ohio, died December 22, 1960. While at Notre Dame, Mr. Lynch was named an All-American football center. In his legal career, he held a number of appointive positions including assistant county prosecutor, as­sistant United States attorney, assistant attorney general of Ohio and attorney for the Office of Price Administration. Mr. Lynch is sur^'ived by his wife and a brother. 
ALBERT M. KELLY, '11 of Zcphyrhills, Florida, 

died January 28, 1961, after a lengthy illness. 
While at Notre Dame, Mr. Kelly played on the 
first championship football team and starred in 
baseball. Sur\-i%-ors include his wife, a daughter, 
five sisters, two brothers, and seven grandchildren. 
HENRY KUHLE, JR., '11, of Sioux Falls, South 

Dakota, died January 2, 1961, according to in­
formation received in the Alumni Office. 
DONNELLY P. McDONALD, SR., '12, of Fort 

Wa^ne, Indiana, died January 8, 1961, accortling 
to ^vord received in the Alumni Office. 
EDWARD F. MEE, '14, died in May, 1959, in Sterling, Illinois, according to taform^^oa received in the Alumni Office. 
REV. FRANCIS J. ROLAND, C.S.C., '18, died December 31, I960, at the U.S. Veteran's Hospital in New York City, where he was chaplain. Father Bolond had taught economics, served as dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and organized the political science department while he was at Notre Dame. He also ser%'ed as \^ce-prestdent of St. Edward's Univcnity and as president of Stonehill College in North Easton, MassacJiusetts. Father Boland w*:is author of "The Popes and Christian Citizenship," and co-authop with Msgr. Ryan, of "Cathoh'c Principles of Politics." He is survived by a brother. 
F. ARMAND SCHELUNGER, '19, of South Bend, Indiana, died January 23, 1961. Mr. Schel­linger was an organizer and first commander of American Legion Post 161, Mishau'aka, and a former member of the St. Joseph County Ta.x Ad­justment Board. He is survived by his wife, three sons, nine grandchildren, and two sisters. 
JOSEPH M. SUTINER, '19. of Glendale, Cali­fornia, died December 26, 1960. At the time of his death, Mr. Suttner was Supervising Deputy Cor­porations Commissioner in Los Angeles and oldest member of the Commission's staff. He is survived by his wife, t^vo daughters, two grandchildren, his mother, two sisters, and a brother. 
ALBERT J. PICKS, JR., '23, of Phoenix, Ari­zona, died December 30, I960, according to ^vord received in the Alumni Office. He was past presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of Phoenix. Sur­vivors include his wife, t^vo daughters, a sister, and eight grandchildren. 
WILLLAM J. FUREY, '23, general accounting manager at the Studebaker-Packard Corp., in South Bend, Indiana, died January- 21, 1961, He is sur­vived by his wife. 
WALTER J. HAECKER, '25, of Nashville, Ten­nessee, died November 25, 1960, according to in­formation received in the Alumni Office. His wife survives. 
FREDERICK D. UHL, '25, of St. Petersburg, Florida, died December 30, 1960. He is survived by his wife. 
CHARLES A. MOONEY, JR., '26, died in Cleveland, Ohio, January 23, 1961. Mr. Mooncy is survived by his son. 
AVILLIAM H. DORE, '30, of Cleveland, Ohio, died January 22, 1961, according to information received In the Alumni OfGcc. He is stu^ived by his ^vife, a daughter, and a brother. 
ARNOLD R. LEVANDOSKI, "30, former depu. ty county prosecutor of Grand R^Ids, }kficlugan, died December 25, 1960. Mr. Levandoski had alio­
Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 2T 
scr\cd as Grand Knight of Grand Rapids Knights 
of Columbus. He is sur\-ivcd by his wife, a daugli­
tcr, a son, his parents, a brother, and a sister. 
SISTER M. ALBERTINA HUSTON, O.P., '32, 

of St. Catharine Junior College, St. Catharine, 
Kcntuckj', died January 16, 1961, according to word 
received in the .Mumni OfBcc. 
EDMUND J. KNIGHT, '32. an arcliilcctural 

engineer at Indiana University, died December 15. 
I960. He is survived by his parents, a sister, and 
t%%'o brothers. 
FREDERICK a SOLARI, JR., '36, of Pembroke, 

Massacliusctts, died December 24, I960, as the 
result of injuries suffered in an automobile ac­
cident. He is sur\-ivcd bv his wife. 
JOHN D. BRODERICK, '37. of South Frci-port, 

Maine, died January- 11, 1960 according to in­
formation received in the Alumni Office. 
RAYMOND A. O'CONNELL, JR., -47, of 

River Forest, Illinois, died December 7, 1960. He 
was associated \s'tth his fatlier in an automobile 
sales agenc>* at the time of his death. Sur\-ivors in­
clude his wife, four children, hb parents, a sister, 
and a brother. 
ROBERT J. VON HOENE, '47, of Ridgeivood, Nctv Jersey, died in September, 1959, according to word received from his wifc. 
DR. THOMAS A. DOOLEY, *48, a jungle pliysj­cian and co-founder of the Medical International Co-operation Organization, died Januar>- 19, 1961, at Memorial Hospital in New York of cancer. Dr. DooIc\' was also an author of three books concerning his experiences in the jungles of Laos. At the June commencement in I960, he reccix'ed an honorar>- doctor of science degree. He is sur­W'cd by his mother and two brothers. 
FRANK J. LEWIS, a well-known Chicago philanthropist, who donated the bus shelter to Notre Dame, died December 21, 1960, at his winter home in Palm Beach, Florida. He re­ceived an honorary degree from Xotrc Dame in 1954. He is survived by Iiis wife, two sons, and three sons and a daughter by his first wife, who died in 1933. 
THOXfAS E. COTLEUR, '55, of Cleveland, Ohio, died September 18, 1959, according to in­formation received in the Alumni Office. 
JOHN P. DOYLE, '57, of Shaker Heights, Ohio, died January' 5, 1961, according to information re­ceived from his parents. 
REV. ROCCO A. FAIOLA, '60, of Kansas City, Kansas, died November 13, 1960 of a heart attack. At the time of his death. Father Faiola was direc­tor of the philosophy department at Donnelly Col­lege. Sur\ivor5 include his parents, a sister, and a brother. 
JOHN JOSEPH BECKER, a former director of music at Xotre Dame, died January 20, 1961, in Lake Forest, Illinois. Mr. Becker, a composer of se\'en sjTnphonies, was a distinctively American composer who departed from traditional European styles. At the time of his death, he was composer in resident at Barat College in Lake Forest. 
RICHARD REID, editor of The Catholic Xeu^, died January 24, 1961, in New Rochellc Hospital, in N«v York. In 1936, Mr. Reid received the Laetare Medal from Notre Dame for his distin­guished sennce to the Church and the nation. He is survived by his wife, a daughter, and three sons. 
50-Year Club 

CHARLES J. B.\AB, '00, remains one of the most entliusiastic followers of Irish athletics, even as a scmi-in\-alid after an accident in AVilkcs-Barre, Pa. He writes: "I received the ALUMNUS football issue and want to congratulate you on a job well done. I have followed the X.D. football traditions since 1896, and that's 65 years. After completing four years at N'.D. I entered the employ of Westinghousc at Pittsburgh and held \-arious positions, the last that of construction engi­neer on plant installations . . . for some years, during whicli I scouted players. .. . In later years I returned home to take over my father's business and continued mv interest in the wel­fare of X.D." 
Mr. Baab believes "the continued success of NJ). teams is the 'Spirit of X'otrc Dame* — the players, the students, the alumni. As most of the students are on campus, the bo\*s Uvc together .. . and that same spirit remains in the heart of every true N^.D. alumnus through the years. That . . . eliminates any serious interference or pressure on the part of the alumni. . . . " Mr. Baab gives his best wishes to JOE KUHARICH 
and HUGH DEVORE, to whom his help has been 
curtailed by an accident that has him on crutches, 
confined to his home. ".At 83 one does not recover 
so quickly." W'c liope he will recover completely 
and soon. 
Tliis lime we mourn the death of EDWARD P. 

MORAN, '94, back in November I960. Deepest 
sympathy to Mrs. Moran, 2616 Frankfort Ave., 
Louisxille, Ky. 
Hardest hit u-as the Class of '04, with the death tn less than two months of four out­standing and sorelv missed alumni. Right REV. MSGR. .MAURICE F. GRIFFIN, '04, LL.D. '22, died Januarj- 25 in Mcrc>- Hospital, Miami, Flori­da, after a lifetime of devoted ser\ice to health, education and social justice. Founder of parishes and member of scliool and hospital boards in Youngstown, O., Msgr. Griffin became a national authority on hospitals, a pioneer of workman's compensation, co-author of the Blue Cross Hos­pitalization Plan, etc BYRON V. KAXALEY, '04, 
LL.D. '49, Chicago, died December 4, 1960. Few men have labored so long or so fruitfully for Xotrc Dame — as president of the Chicago Club, cliairman of University's lay trustees, etc He u-as also president and founder of many mortgage banking and real estate organizations, and na­tionally prominent in the field. Sincere sjTnpathy to his widow and familv. JUDGE G. A. FARA­BAUGH, '01, LL.B. '07, died Januar>- 6. Head of his Xotre Dame Class for four years and youngest attorney ever elected as judge in South Bend, he became a leader of South Bend legal and civic affairs. A baseball catcher at X.D. and briefly in professional ball, he was an avid athlete and founded one of the local countr>' clubs. He was an officer and director of several banks and other organizations, and his law firm handled many national corporate accounts, including the Uni­versitv. Sympathy -to his widow and cliildren. WILLLVM F. BRAUCHLER, '04, died January 27 in Canton, O. He was an electrical and con­struction engineer for many firms in Canton and throughout the U.S. and Canada, as well as the founder of Ins own electrical business. Deepest sjinpathy to his wife and son. 
Word from the X.D. Club of Seattle lists LES­LIE P. FURLONG, '09, as deceased. Tlic date of death is unknown, but prayers are requested for Mr. Furlong as for former footballer EDWIN 
J. LYNCH, LL.B. '10, Toledo attorney-, fonner state senator and for eight years chairman of the Lucas County Democratic executive committee, who died December 22, I960. An outstanding labor and criminal attorney*, Mr. L>-ncIi had been assistant county prosecutor, assistant U.S. attome>* and assistant attorney general of Ohio. A candidate for mayor and local judgeships, he served from 
PEORIA—Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C, head of Notre Dame's theology department^ ad­dresses Peoria's Notre Dame Communion Breakfast on the ^gnificancc of the Second Comicil of the Vatican. 
the I930"s through the 1950's in legal positions with the Workmen's Compensation Commission.^ H.O.L.C., O.P..A. and O.P.S. Sympathy to his^^ widow, Mrs. Norine Lynch of Toledo. 
HARRY W. ZOLPER, C.E., 'W, wrote in from Rapid City, South Dakota: *'God willing JOHN DUGGAN QUINN of Scranion, Pa., and I hope and pray that we will sec vou all in June, 1964, FATHER JOSEPH McGUIRE, FATHER EUGENE BURKE, FATHER IRVING — oh! and FATHER TO.M STEINER. 
*'In going over your last ALUMX'US (and I 
read evcrj- word in it) I was strongly reminded 
of our last fall's football team, of their efforts 
and plan's. From what scant .AP newspaper re­
ports that we get I gather and think that the 
felIo\« played a great fine game of football." 
Mr. Zolper decries the stirring of "a fc\v yellow­
backs to go to Corby Hall with the song, *^\*c 
want football.' Would these come out on the 
scrubs to help practice? N'o! To me our men A 
played great ball when thej- put their best efforts 
into the games." 
In a note to CHARLIE CALLAHAN, '38, Mr. 
Zolper offers to help if he doesn't remember back 
far enough: "Tliis country kid, 'the Dutcliman,* 
first started to become interested in events dur­
ing the McKinlcy campaign in '96," when "Chica­
go and Wisconsin were *it' in football. . . . Stagg 
at Chicago and King at Madison were coaches 
just a bit ahead of time to this Mcndota, III., 
newsboy. (I peddled six different Chicago papers.) 
Stagg had Hershberger and King had the Austra­
lian Pat O'Dea as football kickers. How they could 
punt, place-kick, and above all, drop-kick. Notre 
Dame had similar able men in Texan ANGUS MC­
DONALD and left foot CHUCK FLE-MING . . . 
I ask, why don't the boys develop into drop kick­
ers? Our ball is as long as the old one, and the 
drop kicker gains one man for defense. What a^ ^ 
pretty sight to sec a lonesome fullback send a ^ 
high drop kick between the goal posts from any 
angle. Only as late as '33, XavVs Bill Ingram won 
over Army •with his drop. , . . ^Vc played foot­
ball for fun at high school; and during my five 
seasons at the University of Xotre Dame du lac, 
'99 to '04; and pulled an oar on the boat crew 
at St. Joe Lake. 
"Your reference last fall to the X'.D.-Xorth­wcstcm game sent me to my diary. That was al­ways a tough game. \\'e lost the '02 game 2-0. Tlic next season we tied them 0-0. Tlie '03 game played at Wriglcy Field, Chicago, was the first game whicli members of X'oire Dame's student body ^vere permitted to attend away from home. .\ hundred of us seniors had the permission of our parents and of President FATHER AXDREW MORRISSEY to attend. I still have a copy of the Chicago paper reporting the game in detail. ^ Our captain and fullback, calm redheaded Lou Salmon, and Xorth west em's fullback Dixie Fleager were the heroes. It was a pleasure to see the left end, stubby "FUZZY" McGLEW from Ire­land (long since gone), speed and make yards around right; and right end "SHAG" SHAUGH­NESSY, from .Amboy, III., step around left. He was fast; red curly head, brown freckles all over his ruddy face; and bow-legged; and quick-tem­pered. And LOU S.\LMON with Polo, Ill.'s "HAPPY** LONERG.AN, bucking the line. Believe Lonergan is on the West Coast (Judge in Port­land, Ore.). He has been Grand Exalted Ruler of the Elks. "Shag" has been president of the Inter­national Baseball League up to a few months ago when he was retired. He was also our N.D. left fielder." 
Tlianks for the reminiscences, Mr. Zolper, and best wishes for a complete rccoverj' from your A recent illness. 
In a profile entitled *'Exit for Shag," the X'cw York Times' .Arthur Daley recently wrote: **Basc­ball's upper echelon is so filled with lightweights these days that it hardly can afford to lose one of its fetv hea\-v-weights, FR^VNK (SIL\G) SHAUGHNESSY (LL.B. '06); But the massive Shag has just retired as president of the Inter­national League and the sport will have to struggle along without one of its wbcst and most d\*namic figures. 'I'm tired,' announced Shag, in his boom­ing voice. So he quit. . . . Tlicre is so much lusty vitality to Shag that it must have shocked most baseball men to learn that he is 77 years of age. He doesn't look it or act it. A one-time football tackle and captain at Xotre Dame, he's built like a bull moose and can roar like one, tfxi. He stands 6 feet 3 inches and weights some 220 pounds, a straight figure that's topped by a smil-^ ing red face and a shock of %vliite hair. Strength ™ ripples all over him, strength of body and char­acter. . . ." Dale>- tells of many Shaughnessy 
28 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 
0stratagems that helped to save the minors and of his engineering the expansion plan "that may yet prove the sal\*ation of major league base-I ball.^' Shag was baseball's choice to succeed Judge . Landis as commissioner instead of Happy Chandler. [ He had been an outfielder for Washington and Philadelphia before managing in the minors, coacli­ing hockey and Canadian football, revolutionizing 
I the game while he was at McGilt. **Shag has earned his rest and his retirement," Daley says. "He operated mostly in the minors but he was a big leaguer to the core.'* 
1911 
Fred L. Steers 19 S. LaSalle St. 
Chicago 3, Illinois 
REUNION RIME Quite a few Jubileers have been torn, it appears From their golden companions a full 50 years So let^s gather for fun in the summertime sun June 9-10-11 in Sweet Si.\ty One! 

From the Alumni Office: 0 Pray for ALBERT M. KELLY, who passed away in retirement from law practice in Zcphyrhills, Fla., on January 28 after a long illness. "A great guy" in the summed-up tcstimonv of brother-in­law CH/\RLES W. a\LL , '18, AI played baseball at X.D. and was a right halfback on the national cliampion 1909 football team whicli beat Michi­gan in one of the most spectacular victories of the pre-Rockne era. After winning his LL.B. he engaged In pri\'atc practice for a time and scr\ed 35 years with the legal department of fntcrna­tional Har\*cslcr before moving to Florida, where he was active in civic and religious affairs. His widow Emily should know that classmates will gather for a Nfass on June 10 for those who didn't quite make the Golden Jubilee. Tliesc will also include attorney HENRY KUHLE, JR., who died on Januar>-2 in Sioux Falls, S.D. 
o 1912 
B. J. "Ben" Kaiser 604 East Tenth St. Berwick, Pa. 

•• From the Alumni Office: 
DONNELLY PATRICK McDONALD, SR., 1 E.E., died Januar>* 9 in Fort Wayne, Ind., an { exemplary Notre Dame man with a record of \ ser\-)ce to his community as a banker and citizen. \ S>-mpathy to sons Donnelly, Jr., '47, and Travcrs, .; '57, and all the family. 
1913 

0 Paul R. Byrne 360 Warner Ave. Syracuse 5, N. Y. 
From the Alumni Office: In spite of pressures of the *'ricc race," CLYDE BROUSSARD continues to keep the campus in­'!. formed on N.D. people and events in the Beau-T- mont, Tex., area. And the campus is verv grateful. HENRY KUHLE, JR., Ph.B. '11, who rc­:; ceived his LL.B. with the Class, died Januarj-2 in Sioax Falls, S.D. Please pray for him. 
1914 
Walter Clements 623 Park Avenue 

^ South Bend, Indiana 
MARTIN ENLMETT WALTER, ^vho for 40 years has been with the Houston Chronicle (Texas' largest daily) and for several years now has been editor and vice-president, has resigned as editor but continues as vice-president and director. He has recovered from a recent go-around with an eye surgeon, and in the words of the Chronicle's president, "he will be an active advisor on poIic>* and people but will bear a lighter load whidi his almost 40 years of dedicated ser\-ice to the Chronicle have earned." A Knight of Malta and St. Gregory, Mr. Walter is an advisor>- trustee for the estate of the late Jesse Jones and is said to be one of the reasons for Houston's remarkable growth as an /Vmerican metropolis. 
Your Secretar\' thought he had learned that Mr. and Mrs. EDAVARD J. L/\RNEY have moved from Chicago and taken up residence in Florida, but since the Alumnt Office has not confirmed that fact, the Florida address for Ed may be a tem­porary one. 
There is no doubt that GEORGE H/\NLON has cliangcd his West Coast address to 1973 New­port, Costa Mesa. California. 
Pray for the soul of attorney EDWARD F. MEE of Sterling, III. His death apparently just before the 45th anniversary reunion somehow went un­reported until recently. 
1915 
James £. Sanford 
1429 W.FarragutAv. 
.\^ Chicago 40, Illinois 

From the Ahimni Office: Secretary JIM SANFORD, bouncing back from a pre-holiday indisposition, lias struck out on several ventures, only a few of which he'll even mention. A most interesting project is Retirement Scr\'iccs Inc., 127 North Dearborn Street, Suite 905-907, Chicago. An employment service for executive talent wasted through untimely retirement, the company is looking for private support for its program to override all the usual employer ob­jections to using able and experienced retired personnel. It has a particularly qualified salesman 
in Jim, with more than 40 years experience in career counseling, publishing and public relations. Some ol Jim's energj- and recuperative powers may be due to the intercession of his laic sister, SISTER .MARY JERO.ME S.VNFORD, LH.M. 
(M.A. '22) and her devotion to the Archangel St. Raphael. Inspired by study in the Notre Dame Librar>', the devotion has spread from her sur­roundings at Mar\-grove College, Detroit, with papal approval and promotion by the Immaculate Heart Sisters who call her **HeraId of St. Raphael." The history of the devotion emphasizes Sister Jerome's "great beauty and spiritual dignity . , . her sweetness of personality and strong grace of character." 
GEORGE SHU3TER has been simuliancously presenting an American educational program for .Africa in UNESCO and working out a graduate humanities program at Notre Dame. 
S>-mpathy to ALBERT A. KUHLE and his brother Otto on the loss of their brother Henrv, Jr., '11, LL.B. '13. Details in the I9I7 column. 
1916 
Grover F. Miller 612 Wisconsin Ave. Racine, Wisconsin 

REUNION RIME Annivcisary nears, and for 43 years We've been parted from friends who shared 
laughter and tears. Let us toast every one with a Notre Dame bun June 9-10-11 in Sweet Sixty-One! 
From the Alumni ^Office: 
If JOSEPH McCAFFERY can be prev-ailed upon again to chair the local operation for the 45th anniversary, his manpower near the campus would consist of FRANK HISS, NEIL ROBERTSON, and PROF. WILLIA.M TURNER. 
1917 
Edward J. McOskcr 525 N, Melrose Ave, Elgin, Illinois 

From the Alumni OfHce: Deepest s>*mpathy to OTTO KUHLE of iCn­ncapolis and his brother .Mberi, *15, of LaGrange, 111., on the loss of their brother HENRY J. KUHLE, JR., '11, January 2 in Toledo, O. A native of Salem, South Dakota, Mr. Kuhle was buried in Sioux Falls, S.D. His Ph.B. at Notre Dame had been followed by a law degree in 1913, and as an undergraduate he had been a roommate in Old College of the late JOHN CARDINAL 0'HAR/\. Married in 1915 to Bemicc Ryckman of Woonsockei, S.D., he was preceded in death by her 19 days before in the same hospital, Mercy of Toledo. He retired in December, 1959, after 17 years of federal service, 13 of them with the Social Security .Administration. Other sur\'ivors are 5on Marc in Siou.x Falls, a daughter in Columbus, O., and five grandchildren. We apologize for the necessary- transfer of this information from the 1911 column. 
1918 
Charles W. CaU 225 Patcrson Ave. Hasbrouck Heights, New* Jersey 
JOHN J. VOELKERS opines tliat when he ye­

cenily moved from St. Augustine, Fla., to IVinicr 
Park, Fla., he just zeroed in for the most dc\-astat­
ing hurricane the Sunshine State has hod in re­
cent years. Outside of some minor inconveniences 
he came through it intact. 
JOHN LEMMER, forensic star of our midcr­graduate days, has gone back to his Rotary cir­cuit in Upper Michigan, full to overflowing with hb e-vpericnces in a score of European countries gained on his recent trip with Mrs. Lemmer. 
Summer school classmate SISTER M. MA­DELEVA (M..\., LL.D. *53) recently got a photograph of her book "My First Seventy Years" displayed in a Paris bookstall near the Seine, snapped bv a passing priest and fon^-arded by MNCE McALOON, '34, from Rome. 
.MAXIMILIAN GREGORY KAZUS, who used his legal learning at Notre Dame to qualify him­self for a lifetime of service in the Internal Reve­nue Department, long retired, was a recent \*isitor, with ^frs. Kazus, to the Notre Dame campus. His procedure in retirement is summed up by him as follows; **I have many things to do and plan on doing, some things are done and some of no consequence or importance are forgotten, so I am very busy doing nothing.'* Max says he keeps in touch ^vith RT. REVEREND FIUNCIS 
P. MONIGHAN, of St. Joseph's Church, Gregory, South Dakota, whom he refers to as the "^ American altar bo>'.'* 
.A sad note is the death of our classmate in the Holy Cross Eastern Province, REV. FRANK 
J. BOLfVND, CS.C , on December 31 in the New York Veterans Administration Hospital where he had been Chaplain since 1955. First Eastern Province priest to pass away. Father Boland had served as President of Massachusetts' Stonehtll Col­lege I&49-55 and earlier as vice-president of St. Edu-ard's University, Austin, Texas. Before service as a chaplain in World \Var 11 he had been a professor, prefect of religion and dean at Notre Dame. Sincere sympathy to his brother Steve. (Ed. Note: From his winter retreat in AVinter Haven, Fla., Secretary Call sent *vord on his re­cuperation from surgery: **Thc 'eye' has fought the good battle. The retina operation was success­ful but soon was followed by a blood clot, and as that seems to have cleared it is now all jollied up with a cataract. Decision of eminent surgeons 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 29 
is not to operate so soon again, or perhaps not 
•while
 the other c>'c can supply \-i5l0n. I am handi­04>pcd some, to tell the truth, but for a guy who got through N.D. without a nickle and t^vo wan without a nick, I have no complaint with life whatsoever." Good sho\%% C. ^\^, and best 

•wishes.
 J. L.) 


1919 
Thco. C. Rademakcr Peru Foundry Co. Peru, Indiana 

Was deeply shocked to hear of JOE SUTTXER passing away Christmas Day. Tlie announcement came in a letter from DAN ROBERTS of Green-bank, Wash.: 
**Word has come to me from the family of JOSEPH M. SUTTXER, LL.B. '19, that he passed away on Christmas after having undergone abdomi­nal surgcrv*. 
**Joe %\'as my roommate at Xotrc Dame, a life­long friend and, as I recall, one of your fellow poIe-\'aulter5 on the track team. 
"His home was in Glendale, California, and he had been for many years a deputy state corpora­tion commissioner. He was about ready to retire. 
**I trust that •JTOU and other classmates will remember him in your prayers." 
Another of our lawyers, F. .ARMAND SCHEL­LINGER, died in South Bend, January 22. In precarious health for 10 years, he was a former menAcr of the St. Joseph County Ta.^ Adjust­ment Board and had been active in St. \^ncent de Paul. 
These men had been friends to all their class­mates and to Notre Dame. I am sure tlicy will be remembered in all of our prayers. 
1920 
James R. Ryan 
170 Maybrook Rd. 
Rochester 18, N. Y. 

From the Alumni Office: Back from a Januarv retreat with JOHN BARTLEY and FRANK ^fcFADDEN, JOHN B.\LFE was off in a week or so to Argentina with Ann for the 40th Anniversary of Ills Maslcr*s Degree from the Universitv* of Buenos Aires. They planned to spend most of the time with the CHARLES O'GRADYS, who have a son at Notre Dame and two daughters at St. Mary^s. 
1921 
Dan W. Duffy 1101 Superior Bldg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 
REUNION RIME 

Well, gentlemen, here's to the classmates 
and peers 
Who'll return from an absence of 40 full 
years. From the '2I-gun, a salute (that's a pun?) To June 9-10-11 in Sweet SLxtj-One! 
From the Alumni Office: .\L ABRAMS up from the Atlanta N.D. Club in the deep^ deep South; BILL ALLEX blowing in on the "big wind'* from Wnnetka: HON. NORM BARRY, perhaps, accompanying him once he hits Chicago; and JOE BRANDY toudiing in from Ogdcnsburg, N.Y. (after help wth Ohio J.P.*s on way from a Bellcfontaine barrister. Judge A. T. BRAY); DAN DUFFY, of course, flee­ing Cle\'cland commerce; LEO KELLEY making the scene from S>Tacuse, N.Y., along uith JOHN KENNEY of Manhattan; HARRY McLELLAN and CALLDC MILLER among the local talent; plus VINCE NAGEL from Phoenix, Ariz.; TO.M VAN AARLE, Saginaw, Mich.; BILL UHITE, Ottou-a, 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 
lU.; GEORGE WITTERIED, Chicago, etc This could be sometliing like the scene come June as it \4-as five years ago at that time. DAVE HAYES \**on't breeze in from Connecticut, of course, nor will LEN LALLY be present any more. NIany others who may have looked forward to the 40th will be on band only in the Mass intentions. But how about Toledo industrialist JOE TILIAfAN or ^femphis attorney CHARLES MOOXEY? Or R.\Y SCHUBMEHL, CHET GR.ANT, etc, near­by? It wouldn't take many like tliis to make it a memorable 40th. 
1922 
G. A. "Kid" Ashe 175 Landing Rd. No. Rochester 25, N. Y. 

From the Alumni Office: The Detroit Free Press editorially tossed one of its rarest bouquets around Christmas time when it praised a veteran reported from a rival paper. Tlic occasion was the appointment of RAY GI­RARDIN, star reporter for the newly defunct Detroit Times, as chief probation., officer for Re­corder's Court, with jurisdi<;ti6n oyer all Detroit criminal cases. Of its police reporter competitor the Free Press said: "Girardin is one of the most widely knox^-n and highly regarded newspapermen in ^fidlig3n. . . . His personal and rcporlorial rectitude were so generally recognized that he enjoyed the confidence and pcnonal friendship of of outlaws and law enforcement officials on an equal basis." Renewing Ray's eno'clopcdic knowl­edge of criminology, penology, probation and parole, tlie paper concluded; "He is an ideal man for that complex job." 
Wc of '22 have lost two more wonderful class­mates by death in recent months: MARK STOREN, SR., prominent attorney of Michigan City, Ind., who died in late July; and DR. HENRY A. ATKINSON of Green Bay, Wisconsin, who departed from this life on October 30. The latter had been city doctor for Green Bay over a period of 25 years, and was a prominent sur­geon. Hank, as he was affectionately called, took his pre-medic at N.D. and his medicine at St. Louis University and Marquette. Tlie entire Green Bay Packer football squad attended the Atkinson, funeral. Also, about 40 doctors of the Green Ba\%* area ser\'ed as honorary' pall bearers. Hank was buried on All Souls* Day. Wc extend our sym­pathy and prayers to all members of the Storen and Atkinson families. Also to DRS. DANIEL L. SEXTON and ELMER SEXTON of St. Louis on the death of their beloved mother, Magdalein Sex­ton, at age 88. 
Wc are pleased to learn that EDDIE PFEIFFER has reco\xred from illness. Eddie was hospitalized in his native LoutsWlle last July. TOM S. Alc-CABE, of LaGrange, HI., suffered some fractures as a result of an auto accident in mid-fall. He, too, is back on the firing line after hospitaliza­tion. RALPH CORYN, JERRY DIXON, CHEF WYNNE, and JACK HIGGINS, who had surgerv­in 1960, have made fine recoveries. ^Ve regret to learn ver>* recently that AARON HUGUEXARD is in St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend. 
On December 26 at Franklin Field, Philadelphia, V* the football coaching career of LJ\AVRENCE (BUCK) SHAW came to a glorious end, when his professional Philadelphia Eagles won the world's cliampionship by defeating the Green Bay Packers with a score of 17 to 13. Buck began his foot­ball coaching career in 1922, and his career of directing, collegiate teams included: North Carolina State, Santa Clara, University of California, and the Air Force Academy. In professional football he coached the San Francisco '49ers for many sea­sons before transferring operations to Philadelphia. We of *22 do, indeed, congratulate Buck on his fine career of football coaching, and wc rejoice that he is leanng the coaching profession at the very time tliat he has reached the highest pinnacle in the realm of football. 
OLLIE SCHELL of Tyrone, Pa., tells us the football fans of his area arc proud of the team ^ turned out by Coacli Shaw of tlie Eagles. W' 
The football coacliing career of Head Coach EDDIE ANDERSON of Holy Cross College, Wor­cester, Mass., which began almost simultaneously with that of Buck Shaw, shows no signs of ter­minating in the near future. Eddie is the vcr>' last of the '22 football coaclics still in service. 
A most welcome message from ^frs. STEPHEN 
E. a\RMODY of Carlinvillc, III., tells us that the Carmodys are well: Mary Jo is married and lives in South Bend; T P is practicing law in Carlinvillc; Chuck is a senior at College of Eastern Illinois; and Ann is in her last year of nursing school. 
DAN YOUNG is headed for Dutcli New Guinea earlv in '61. JAMES V. JONES and wife of Rochester, N.Y., nsited Europe last year. ^ . 
SAN DIEGO—Syracuse U. football coach Ben Schwartzwalder (seated, center) uses water glasses to explain a play to Very Rev. John R- Aheme, O.S.A., apparently unconcerned about a cordon of N.D. eavesdroppers: (from left) G. R. Bill, '29; Thomas Carter, '51; 
N.D. athletic director Edward Krause, '34; and Harry Monohan, '50. Schwartzwalder and • ) 
Krause were speakers at San Diego's seventh annual Appreciation Night at St. Augustine High School, of which Father Aheme b principal. 
1961 

A There is another Hirsclibuhl granddaughter, 
^'Ellcn Quinn of Fresno, Calif., bom to the Bradley Quinns on All Saints's Day. Mrs. PAT HIRSCH­BUHL left to go to the Hawaiin Islands in Janu­ary for a \isit. 
We ore most grateful to all who sent Christmas and New* Year greetings to your Class sccrctar>*. May the current year be a happy one for all of '22, and their families. 
1923 
Louis V, Bniggner 2165 Riverside Dr. South Bend, Indiana 
From the Alumni Office: 

O Pray for ALBERT J. PICKS, JR., a fonuer president of the Phoenuc, Ariz., K.D. Club and a highly respected businessman, who died Dec. 30 in Phoenbc., leaving his wife and two daughters; also for ^VILLUM J. FUREY of South Bend, general accounting manager for the Studebaker-Packard Corp., who died Januar>* 21 (his widow surxives) and whose fellow employees collected a fund in his memor>' for a scholarship from the 
N.D. Club of the St. Joseph Valley. 
1924 
James R. Meehan 301 S. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend 10, Ind. 

o, 
From the Alumni Office: Congratulations to EUGENE MAYL of Dayton's Murphy & Mayl on his appointment to the Uni­versity of Dayton's associate board of lay trustees. Gene attended U.D. prior to his law training at Notre Dame. He's already on hospital and Com­munity Chest boards, former executive committee member of the Ohio Bar, former Chest and Toledo Bar Assn. president. 
Judge THO^L\S C. DONOV.VX got a full-page treatment from the Chicago Tribune for his use of "heart and head" in the grim business of the *'job nobody wants," judge of Chicago's sprawling Family Court. Formerly called "Juvenile Court," it was first of its kind in the U.S. and remains the largest in the world. Tlie article describes a ! day in the life of this "Irish-American Solomon" A whose six children qualify him as well as any ; man for the role of father to all Chicago's way­
ward youth. It's a day full of heartaches, only occasionally brightened by a brief gleam of kindli­ness or nobility, and deser\'cs a better retelling In a future ALUMXUS — especially since Tom is an unsung hero of past X.D. acliievcnient of the Chicago Club. 
1925 
John P. Hurley 2085 Brookdale Road Toledo 6, Ohio 
I wish I could start my class notes like I did when I took over this job and tell you tliat "JACK SCALLAN has ^ven up selling school textbooks and became Secretary to the President of the Pullman Co." or RAY CUNNINGHAM is with MofTct Studies . . . the same outfit that took care of your Dome pictures" or "RAY TILLMi\N was the first to get married after our graduation" or "ELMER LAYDEN is coaching at Duqucsne, HARRY STUHLDREHER is at Villanora, JIM CROWLEY is at Micliigan State. DON MILLER is at Georgia Tech, BILL CERNEY and CHUCK COLLINS are at North Carolina trying to find a Catholic Church in that deep southern area or that RIP MILLER has gone Navy while his brother-in-law has taken over as an assistant at Purdue, and ADAM WALSH is telling the boys in Maine how the "seven mules" opened up the line just a wee bit, so "the thin man" fullback could have his day of glory at Stanford or how ROCKNE told the Stanford boys that Elmer was taught to be at a certain spot when Stanford decided to take to the air and into Elmer's hands. Just in case you fellows start digging into the files I know you will come back with, **ADAM WALSH didn't start in Maine but at Santa Clara 

TRI-CITIES—Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday observance in Davenport, Iowa, featured Most Rev. Ralph L. Hayes, Bishop of Davenport, as a speaker on the Ecumenical Council. 
as the only member of our famous team who has accepted a place as HEAD coacli." ED HUNT­SINGER recovered a Stanford fumble for a touch-dou-n that day. Crowley scored the first touchdown and Stuhldrehcr, as little as he was, was sitting on top of Ernie Nevers when he carried the ball to the one j-ard line and best of all how those great "Seven Mules" as Rip Miller tagged them HELD. That Ax-as the climax of the day. Score, **as if you didn't remember," Notre Dame 27, Stanford 10." 
Sure some fellows stayed on with the same out­fits, only in diflTcrcnt jobs. JACK Sa\LLAN is president of Pullman instead of secretary to the president. AL PORTxV is calling the signals at Studcbaker as V.P. and the top executive there. RIP MILLER has been the liaison coach through all these years at Na\y. VINCE HxVRRINGTON, one of Rocknc's shock troops, went on to Wash­ington as a member of the House of Representa­tives. Vincc told mc when I visited him in Wash­ington that if he voted for war he would join the bo>-s . . . and he did and went o\-crseas . . . because of age it took a special call from President Roosevelt to get his wish. Vincc died in London while serving Arith Uncle Sam and like another great Notre Dame man (Dr. Tom Dooley) did much in a short time and added great glory to our Alma Mater. I could go on and on . . . that rock and roll song fits your sccre­tar>': *'You talk too mudi." 
These are the sad facts, boj-s. Too many of the fello\%3 mentioned have passed on, and as your sccrctar>' I must report that more have placed their hopes for eternal happiness in the hands of Our Lady. WALTER "BUTCH" ILVECKER died on November 25, 1960. "Butch" died in his home at 6107 Hillsbors Rd., Nashville, Tenn. Butch had the greatest smile in the whole class of 1925. I can still sec him and JERRY HOLLrVND running all over the campus on that great day in June tr>'ing to pick up the caps and gowns from the fellows who thought the rental of $6.00 was the cost of the outfit. When "Butch" graduated from liigh school he opened his diploma while u*atking to his scat, '*just to be sure it was signed." FRED UHL died between Christmas and New Year of a heart attack. Fred, as many of you know, was at our 35th reunion and was moving to Florida for his health. Fred lived at 4026 North 24th Ave., St. Petersburg, Fla. Both Fred and "Butch" left their wi\-es and neither had children. Be sure to remember them in your prayers. Both were dear friends of mine even before our college days. Butch in Toledo and Fred in Notre Dame "prep" school. I feel sure Our Lady will take good care of these boys, but don't forget the prayers and Masses and the Moss Fund . . . be­fore I get into that, I have another one to add to your list. EUGENE J. STEUERLE of 1439 Willow Ave., Louisville 4, Kentucky, died last July lOth. I didn't know Gene as well as the other two felIo\\'S, but I am sure many of you fellows did. High Masses arc being or have been said for all three. 
While Kennedy is giring you your **State of the Union" message I will pass on HANK ^VUR­ZER'S **State of the Mass Fund message," in part. **As regards our ftmd, as I told you in a 
previous letter, there is on deposit at the University on the basis of $5.00 a Mass, a stipend, enough money to say the monthly Mass for all the de­ceased members of the class of 1925 until the next three or four years are passed. And I have on hand around $60 to take care of these indiindual Masses as the occasion arises, such as BUTCH HAECKER and FREDDIE UHL. You get around more than I do, and if you sec any of the boys "con" them for a five or ten and send it to me, because I imagine over this next five years the individual Mass demand will step up con­siderably." You are so right. Hank. Let's not u"ait till Hurley gets around to putting the "touch" on you. Send it to Hank . . . Mr. Henr\- Wurzer, Executive Offices, Blackhawk Hotels Company, Davenport, Iowa. I believe it was Theo. Roosevelt who said "EVERY MAN OWES A PART OF HIS TI.ME AND MONEY TO THE BUSINESS, IN­DUSTRY OR SCHOOL (HURLEY ADDS THE CLASS OF '25) IN WHICH HE IS E.\GAGED. NO MAN H.AS A MORAL RIGHT TO ^VITH­HOLD HIS SUPPORT FROM AN ORG.ANIZA­TION TH.AT IS STRIVING TO IMPROVE CON­DITIONS WITHIN HIS SPHERE." If you can't send enough for a stipend in this ''investment club," please say a lot of prayers to make up for the cash . . . only the good Lord and OUR LADY Can figure out that "foreign exchange," but I am sure it will be O.K. by them and your deceased classmates. 
VTith. all the "chatter" before this I will add a bit of news from only one of the questionnaires. ADAM AVALSH, P.O. Box 540. Brunswick, Maine, writes that he is no longer coaching after 34 years. He said he made no effort to continue after the 1958 season. His family consists of Dorothy, his wife; Adam. Jr.; Russel WilKam; and Stella, who is in her teens, and he proudly advises that he has eight grandchildren. He says he hasn't seen too many of the *25ers except the Clex-elond crowd when the 1924 team was all at the Com­munion Breakfast on April 3, 1960. He would like to hear from anyone who chooses to write. (So get the pen out, bo)^, because I am sure Adam will be happy to hear from you.) Adam, in one sentence, summarizes the philosophy of our Alma Mater's Alumni, for the most part, and I will close this "chapter" with it. "TTie greatest thing that has happened to me in my life. .. . at­tending Notre Dame. All other things are rela­tively unimportant or insignificant. I am sorry that I cannot be at the reunion . . . my prayers and best wishes to all." Thanks . . . many thanks, Adam, and I hope you can be with us this fall for the post-football reunion. 
From the Alumni Office: ANTONIO GONZALEZ, president of the In­sular Life-FGU Insurance Group in the Philippines, has stopped the company's mechanical practice of sending Christmas and New Year greeting cards to business contacts. "The amount that would have been spent in sending out the greeting cards this year is being put to good use. We are setting it aside to create a fund for educational scholar­ships for poor but deserving students. One of our scholars is already pursuing a course ia higher physics. Another is taking a course in agriculture." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 31 
1926 
Rudy Gocpfrich 1109 N. Cleveland Avenue South Bend 28, Ind. 
REUNION RIME T^vcnty-sixcrs, three cheers for those gay 
cavaliers We haven't laid eyes on for 35 ycarsi May wc meet every one ere the set of the 

sun On June 9-10-11 in Sweet Sixtj-Onc! 
After the Pitt game. Ona and JOHX RYAN and Mrs. G. and I met VINCE and Mrs. SOISSOX and their son, joe, who is now a student at Xotre Dame. W'c had a real nice visit and met some of \'ince''s friends who were at the game. .Aflcnords John and Ona came to our house for highball* and sandwiches. 
On the evening before the Pilt game, Frank Crosiar of one of our local radio stations inter\iewcd Mrs. JOHX DEVEREAUX, who %*^ down from Chicago with one of her sdiooltcachcr friends for the game. Tliis friend ivas a Mrs. Johnson, wlio has a son at Xotre Dame. 
Had a letter horn CHARLIE MARGUET in whicli he pointed out some errors in our recently issued 1926 Class roster. These and other errors have now been corrected and a nc\*" rosier ^vill be mailed in the near future. Charlie also asked about LIXSUXG HAHX, TOXY CAVALLE, E.M­MET ROHWER, MEXOU and PATEXAUDE, all of %vhom arc on our *'missing" list. Charlie abo suggested that we might try lo round up Mime old pictures and snapshots for the Reunion. If you will Send these to me, properly Identified and dated; I will sec that the\- arc properly mounted on a board. 
On a recent visit to New York City, I slopped at tlie Statler Hotel and \Tsitcd JOE SHEi\, wlio is the resident manager there. Joe never married; he lives at the hotel. Over the years, he has met a number of X'otrc Dame alumni, among iliem some '26ers. He mentioned that he sees GERRY McDERMOTT, \\'ARD LEAHY and DOC GEL­SOX occasionally and that tlic\* would all be back for the reunion. Gerrv is in the advertising busi­ness in Hartsdale, .V.Y. I called DOC GELSOX who lives in Summit, X.J., and wc had a nice chat. Doc*s son, James, was ordained a Jesuit priest last summer. DUCKY MILLER was in town with his wife and son, but wc just missed him. 
I had a nice dinner with JOE SHE;V, Others he had seen from time to time were: TOM FARRELL, BERNIE WIXGERTER, TO.\f BURKE, TOM MERSMAX, BUD FIXCH, FRED WHITE, SUTEDE URBAX, DOC ARMIXGTOX, DICK COXXELLV, DR. JOE FOLEY and EDDIE BURKE. Tlicrc arc a few more '26ers in the Xew York area, but I did not have any luck con­tacting them on the phone. 
By the time this gels into print, I will be off on a long business trip. I will leave the U.S. about the middle of Januarjv will fly to Paris and spend about a week there with one of our afHtiate companies. Tlicn I will fly to Tokyo where I will spend about a month helping our licensee set up a brake manufacturing plant in Japan. Tlicn liome by boat. If, in iliis interim, you have any questions regarding tlic reunion. I sug­gest you write the .Mumni Oflice or JOHX RY.AX, our Class President. 
From the Alumni Office: Classmates getting a postcard signed **Rudy" from some evollc comer of the globe could be excused presuming it's a promotion gag for the 35th Anniversary reunion, but the\''d be wrong. Secre­tary RUDY GOEPFRICH left the States in late January* for a business trip to Japan, touclied down first in Paris, tltcn had a long (27 hours) flight to Tokyo, stopping at Rome. Athens, Teheran, New Delhi, Bangkok and Hong Kong on tlic way. Since then he's been moring through Japan on Bendix business but giving a lot of his spare time to reunion plans. The death of CHARLES A. MOOXEY on Janu­
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 
ALBION M. GRIFFIN, '29 For Patent La^\->*ers, a Star in Bethlehem 
Appointment of Albion Meade Griffin, formerly assistant chief patent attorney, to the position of chief patent attorney was announced in January* by the Wcc-president in charge of research. Bethlehem Steel Com­pany, Bethlehem, Pa-
Bom in New York City, Al Griffin was graduated from Mt. Carmel High School in Chicago. Upon graduation from Notre Dame with a bachelor of laws degree, he worked in the legal department of an in­surance company in Chicago for four years. Among student distinctions won on the campus was the Sulli\-an Prize in 1929. 
He joined Bethlehem Steel in June 1934 as a patent engineer in the research de­partment There foUo^vcd a scries of patent law assignments. He ^vas named a senior patent attorney in 1953 and assistant chief patent attorney in 1958. 
Soon after coming to Bethlehem, Al met and married Margaret Louise Dodson. David Dodson Griffin was bom in 1937, and James Gerald arrived in 1939. 
A member of the Saucon Valley Country Club, Al resides at 54 E. Church St., Bethlehem. 
ar>' 23 was a great loss to the Class and to the University. FATHER RILEY and FATHER MISCH of the Congregation of Holy Cross were present at the funeral in Cleveland. 
Let's not forget to congratulate J. .\RTHUR HALEY, the University's genial p.r. man, on his election to the board of directors of South Bend's First Bank. 
1927 
Clarence J. Ruddy 32 S. River Street 
Aurora, Illinois 

From the .Alumni OfHce: 
The sports editor of the Louis\'il]e Times re­cently wrote a lyrical tribute to RED SKOTH to introduce Red's syndicated column to the papers 
1961 
"Ask sports editors at the World Series, Kentucky^, Derby or Masters golf tournament who the top" sports columnist in America is and the most frequent answer is Red Smith. Red heads my list because he can do more u-ith the English language than any tj-pewTiter jockey I know. He is a master craftsman — the enw of his profession. Red is a sports writer's sports writer. Red has unparalleled imagination. . -. You'd never know it because he has the humility of an office boy. He toils over his stuff like a painstaking cub batting out 3 trial column for a hard-boiled edi­tor. And he admits that the words 'come out like little drops of blood.' He gets little s>-mpathy from fellow columnists who know that the result inevitably will be seemingly cfTortlcss prose em­bcllislied with dry wit, casual approach and fresh imagery . . ." 
CongratulaU*ons to THONLVS F. GREEX, JR., Houston, Tex., on the marriage of his daughter Margaret Joe to RALPH SAUER, '60, Nov. 26. §1 Celebration was lavish for tliis first of Tom's eight children to be married (one son in the Seminary, one at N,D.). 
1928 
Louis F. Buckley 
68-10 108th Street 
Forest HiJk 85, N. Y. 

I wish to extend s>mpathy to AL GURY on %)'• 
the death of his father on October 31, I960, and 
to LARRY CULLINEY on the death of his mother 
on August 26, I960 in Rutland, Vermont. 
A good session was held with a number of class­
mates when I spoke recently in Buffalo before 
the Chamber of Commerce there. GORDON 
BENNET, BERNIE BIRD and PETE \VACKS, 
'30, attended the mcctins where I spoke. GOR­
DON BENNET, who is with the Buffalo Courier-
Express, was accompanied by his son who is mar­
ried to a daughter of HENRY BURNS, '29. 
BERNIE BIRD is Deputy County Treasurer. PETE 
«*ACKS*, '30, is Vice President of Bell Acro­
s>-stems Company in Buffalo. GUS JENKINS 
drove me to tlic Buffalo airport ^vhcrc he is a 
partner in tlic Airiva\-s Hotel, Inc. Gus has seven 
grandchildren. He is teaching English in high 
school and seems to be enjoying it very much ^\\ 
after many years as Vice President in the Dunn 
Welding Company in Buffalo. 
FATHER JIM ^^cSH.\NE, S.J., is apparently 
adjusting to the rugged living and travel condi­
tions he encounters as a missionary in Honduras. 
Please wTitc Father Jim at Casa Cural, El Pro­
grcsso, Youso, Honduras, C. A. He i\TOtc re­
cently about how mudi he enjoyed reading this 
column. 
FR.ANK PENDERGAST, '27. wrote from Cu­
camonga, California, in a reminiscing mof>d after 
reading the September .-Mumnus. Frank and his 
wife have two daughters, whom they adopted, 
9 and 6 years ago. Frank said he •was %vriting 
because so many of the names I "drop" touch 
a "hot button" in him connected with 33 years 
ago. Frank continued "I recall so many of the 
reprobates you call by name. I'd like to know 
about or hear Irom many of them. I plan to be *\. 
in New York next spring and would really en-*'' 
joy \-isiting \rith some of the boys f lived with 
•years ago near Grant's tomb*." Wc are look­ing forward to Frank's visit to Nc*v York. 
TO.\f lAVELLE reported that he saw AL DA^^S' picture in a General Motors brochure. Al is General Manager of Detroit DiescL TOM LAX'KLLE has twin sons at Notre Dame this year. He has tlirec younger children at home in Anderson. Tom concluded his note bv mentioning ho%v- clean and neat SEXTON, BRANNON, \S\\G­N£R and I kept our room in Freshman Halll 
I have had a number of letters commenting on ho%%* mucli e\'er>-one enjoyed our '28 Cocktail Party at Notre Dame after the Michigan State game and at JIM ALLAN's following the North%\-estcm game. JOE LANGTON wrote that his iWfc and son said they hadn't realized before what a nice bunch of fcllou-s were graduated with Joe. One of Joe's daughters is at Mt. St. Scholastica College f) in Atcheson and another is at Fontbonne College in St. Louis. Joe is active in the K. of C. again and at present is head of the local Fourth Degree 
0in Peoria. Joe is active also in the Automotive Wholesalers o[ Illinois, as he has the Langton Auto Supply Company in Peoria. 
\Vc arc fortunate in Iiaving a Class President with the foresigiit of JI>f .ALLAN. He has ar­ranged for *28 cocktail parties in the basement of O'Shaughnessy Hall after the Northwestern game at Notre Dame on October 28 In 1961 and after the Michigan State game on October 20 in 19G2. ^fake your plans nmv to attend these cocktail parties whidi arc becoming more popular each year. It ^vcs tts a chance to meet families of classmates, 'which wc cannot do at regular re­unions. 
VIXCE CARNEV mentioned the great time he had at the '28 cocktail party at JIM ALL.\N's Mlowmg the Northwestern game. It ^vas the first \-isit he had had with FRANKLYN DOAN, *28. in many years. VINCE WALSH and BILL DWYER also reported on the success of Jim's 

Q party. BILL DWYER has one daughter at Clarke College in Dubuque and mentioned that his other daughter is following my daughter's footsteps as 
• a student at Loyola University. Incidentally, my 1 daughter, Paula, finds time with her five young \ cliildrcn to do graduate work in Chicago. Speak­; ing of footsteps reminds me that FR^VXK 
CREADON's son Pat, a recent Notre Dame grad­tiatc, sings with his father in tlie famous Paulist Choir in Chicago. 
JOE GERAGHTY's oldest daughter is a nun in the ^fcrcy order in Roclicsler. Joe is office manager at Geo. D. B. Boulright & Company, stockbrokers in Rochester. Joe sees PHIL O'CON­NOR who is with Eastman Kodak and JOE DEBOTT who is with a savings bank in Gcne\-a. 
I was sorr>- to read of the death of our old teacher. Professor Hcnr>* Froning, on October 18, 1960, in South Bend at the age of 76. 
BERNIE GARBER, whom I see frequently, came 

O through with the following items: "At the Cardinal O'Hara dinner in NYC last spring, the names of those attending failed to include ED DUFFY of Essex Falls, N.J. Ed Is a NV broker and one of his sons is a student in Mar>-knoll Semi­nar>-, Ossinin^, N.Y. 
"DICK PARRISH and I had lunch during November in NYC. x\s editor of the Fairmont paper, *Tlie West Virginian,* lie spear-headcd an expose of bigotr>- literature in that state, pre«ous to Kennedy carr>-inff it for the presidcnc>-. His wife, Agnes Smith, had a book for children, *The Edge of the Forest,' published by Viking and also in England by GoIIancz. 

; "ART DENCHFIELD has been in Panama nc­
i gotiating land leases lor an airport. I liear his oldest son is a, seminarian in St. John Vianney Seminary*. Art*s family lives in Miami. "I talked %WtIi JACK \MNGERTER while at Sea Girt for TlianksgiWng. Jack is again with TIXfE magazine, having left deRochcmont. He spends week ends at his home in Spring Lake. "Our favorite Freshman Hall prefect, JOHN BRENN.VN, was at the PAUL BUTLER-PAT ^LVNION Notre Dame Club forum in December. He is with American Standard and just trans­ferred to the NY office, living in Wcstfield, N.J. Buckley and I will have lunch with him — when? 
"Tlianks to D^VN \TERRILLI's new Impala, Wc had a pleasant trip to the Michigan State game, a visit with my freshman son, Brady, a happy time at the Allan-Camey cocktail party seeing, among many, Joe and Kae Griflin whose eldest daughter is a- senior at Rosar\* College and a son in medical scliool at Georgetown; faculty member Bob Scliultz whose charming witc is a South Bend girl and St: Mary^s grad. Sun­day morning, Iiad coffee and attended Mass witli GEORGE SCHEUER." 
I was pleased to note in the last Alumnus tliat HENRY H*\SLEY received the 1960 "Man of the Year" award given by the Fort ^Vaj-nc Club. Congratulations, Henr>'. 
Wc saw GEORGE CRONCEYER and STE\'E SHERRY at the forum meetings of the Notre Darac Club of New York, in addition to BER­NIE GARBER. Incidentally, these arc excellent meetings. It was like old times hearing PAT AfANIOX and PAUL BUTLER again. 
FATHER ANDY MULRE.\NY, G.S.C., who is pastor at St. Plus X parish, 151-14 State High-w*ay 23, Granger, Indiana, noted on his Christ­mas card that he sees BILL MURPHY. Bill has a summer place at one of the lakes in Southern Micliigan. When visiting the cottage. Bill and his sister attend Afass at Father Andy's parish. 
I spoke at the meetings of the allied economic associations ia St. Louts, Afissouri, at Christmas time and talked to £D DEAN who is General 

O 
FRANK "SPEED"* GAUL, '36, stricken with incurable emphysema but showing the same indomitable spirit he displayed as a quarterback in 1935, goes through a scrapbook with his attractive family: (1. to r.) Barbara, Frank, Mike, Mrs. Jeanne Gaul, Jerry (with glasses); and Tom. Before his illness Frank coached at John Carroll and was Cleveland district manager for Anheuser-Btisch Co. 
Sales Manager for the Great Lakes Carbon Cor­poration, Missouri Coke & Chemical Division, there. Ed told me how much he enjoyed visiting with many of the old classmates at the '28 class cocktail party following the Midilgan State game. Ed added, "Age may be changing our ph^-sical appearance, but it hasn't changed the warmth and friendliness of the N.D. men of '28." Ed has five children, ages 9 to 24, and became a grand­father recently. Ed calls on TO.M L.\VELLE, President of the Lavelle Grey Iron Foundry in Anderson, Indiana. He reports thai Tom is still young looking and handsome as ever. 
From the Alumni Office: . As if to set the pattern for the administration of his bosses Arthur Goldberg and JOHN F. KENNEDY (LL.D. '50), Bureau of Labor Sta­tistics Regional Director LOU BUCKLEY has been the movingcst and spoakingcst known alum­nus in recent months. Latest publicized appear­ances: the December annual meeting of the Cath­olic Economic Assn. in St. Louis, at which he called for better education and job training for Negroes; New York's Cit\^vide Youth Conference, where he discussed job opportunities for high school students; and in February, Omaha's Cath­olic Interracial Council banquet ("Racial Dis­crimination and the Manpower Needs of the 1960V') and Notre Dame's Ninth ^Vnnual Union-Management Conference ("Changing Composition of the Labor Force"'). And the pace Iiasn't al­tered his column by a semicolon. Good going, Professor! 
1929 
Larry Stauder Engineering BIdg. Notre Dame, Indiana 

JOHN M. GILT.MON writes: "ifay I personally thank you for the ^\'rite-up of my change of ad­dress to 601 West Diversey Parkway on Chicago's North Side. 
"After 30 years an alumnus, I am particularly elated to sec ray name in print for the first time in the column, and more so to have the ALUM­NUS forwarded properly. I enjoyed particularly tlic Cardinal O'Hara Memorial Issue and again say a silent prayer for him. R.I.P." (John is an attorney at law. III \Vest ^Vashingto^ Street, Cliicago.) Dear John: (and Ed and Jim and . . . .] I have found a kindred spirit; some years ago I felt exactly the same way about not seeing my name in the column. It seemed that I saw: the names of the same old roommates and former bridge partners of the. Class secretary month after month. To some extent, human na­ture being what it is, this Is still too true. 
My greatest personal satisfactions as secretary have been witnessing the arri\*al of '29ers at the class reunions, and having new contributors to the column. In your case, John, I am not the only one who would like to know more about what thirty years have done to that head of red hair and the w*aistline, all about your family and vour activities. I fortunately can thank our Class officers, FIUNCIS JONES, JOE LENIH.AN» JOE ^\7L\LEN, ADCKEY McMAHON, SID SIDEN­FADEN, BOB VOGEL\VEDE as well as numerous others including HUGH MacMANIG.AL, FA. THERS THORNTON and BARRY for able and willing assistance. If the class manpower hasn't been exploited more fully. It is by omission on my part. Between us (or possibly in spite of us) and others we have had a number of recent additions, and need many more. 
One means of keeping the class organization and the column alive bcttt'een reunions has been the popular after-fooball game gathering. But more about that later. 
"Til ^v•e hear from you, John, best wbhes. 

Larry 
Oklahoma comes to Notre Dame on September 30 to open the 1961 football season. The Class get-together of the '29er5 has never been held so early in the season. However, several' have suggested this date for the usual after-game gather­ing. Your secretary has received only a small sample of expressed opinion and may be drawing hasty conclusions. 
He may be judging the Class reaction to the football situation as identical with his interpreta­tion of the mood expressed by those who attended the football banquet at Notre Dame on De­cember 12. Tlie attendance at this annual testi­monial football banquet was a new* high, a full house of over a thousand. With speakers like Duffy Daugherty, Jimmy Cotizelman, and J.ACK QUINLAN, tlic program was an assured success. In spite of the attraction of this triple serving of genuine levity there ^vas an even greater magnetism that brought this year's football friends of Notre Dame together. One sensed a real desire on the part of the patrons to express their appreciation to the members of "the team that didn't quit,*' and its coaclics. There was a sense of hunger to know* a bit more about them, of their numerous problems In the past season^ and of their attitude toward the coming season. A reassuring mutual dedication and trust was apparent. The alumni, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 33 
John Bettys Mike Tom 
ir«tlbleen Henry Mary Rom^nft Cileen 
TWELVE CHILDREN of Jim, '29, and Elizabeth Kennedy as shown in latest Christmas card: Young Jim, a teacher in Chicago; John, in sales for IBM; Betty and her husband, grad students at Boston College; Pat, a nurse; Tom, at Loras College; Bob and Henry, seminarians; Kathleen, high school; Romana, Eileen and Kevin, grade school. 
friends, administration, players, and coadies were looking purposefully ahead. Your secrclarv* will soon poll those u-ho normal­ly attend. He asks any newcomers to write him 
— and there is no better time than the present. This brings to mind a favorite obscrx-ation of dear FATHER JOHN MILTNER, CS.a , de­ceased: ''You will never be stronger (in your resistance to sensual temptations) than at the very beginning." Your secretary trusts that "yo""* the Class of *29 reader, resolve to send him some nc%vs this year and that you will act early. Send it nmv; sec it in the next issuc-
BILL NEFF, superintendent of Public Schools, Mandan, North Dakota, has a new book, "Free­dom Under Law" scheduled for release shortly after January 1, 1961. This is the second book in his social studies series. The previous volume published by Bruce in 1953 titled, "World Hbtorj* for a Better World," a functional approach to the teadiing of world history- in high school, was ver>* well received. Bill spent two months of the past summer in Europe. He has some new public school buildings in process of completion to fur­ther contribute to a busy fall. He rt:lays his "Hello" to all the gang. 
Here is a quote from an early October note 

from GENE MILLIFF, 21Q40 W^cst Lake Road, 
Rock>- River, Ohio: *'I am sorry to report that 
for the first time in over ten years I will not be 
able to \7sit the campus for a game. I am deeply 
involved with tlic Federal AWation group in 
mo\ing their headquarters from Qevcland Hop­
kins Airport to Obcrlin, Ohio. 'With their \*ast 
network of communications, I have my hands 
full. I will miss seeing you and the rest of the 
fellows, but God willing, I'll be back again next 
year. Best of health and luck to all of you and 
have a couple martinis for my wife and me." 
CLETE SCHNEIDER, Lakcwood, Ohio, writes: "I sec by the Wall Street Journal tliat SID Sn)ENFADEN*s Suburban Gas Co. is really going places. GAYLORD HAAS was conspicuous by his absence last June — I suppose he will be around as usual for the after Michigan State game get-together. At the Cleveland Golf Panv I saw TOM KIENER and NORNf ^fcLEOD," 
It seems that Ohio has taken over. JOHN COLAXGELO tells that JOE DIRC, *28, has been over to \Tsit with him. Joe, %vho is whh tlie Ohio State Department of Highways, was working out of New Castle, Pennsylvanb while maintaining his home in Oak Park, Illinois. 
HAROLD A- BAIR imtes, "even though Fresno is on the heax-ily traveled US 99 wc rarely see anyone of the 1929 Class. There is no one of our Class li%ing nearer u^ than San Francisco and Los Angeles, which are between t»%*o hundred and tu-o hundred and fifty miles distant. 
"Occasionally I hear from DICK NO^VERY and JO£ KRAKER. Tlie latter came through here in the summer of 1959 and stayed over­night vdxh his family. Needless to say, we had a great time \-akking until about four in the morning. My wife and I and son, JACK, *58, expect to see the USC game in Los Angeles and probably will see BILL FORTIER and others there the night before the game.'* 
From Minneapolis, LOU REGAN said: "I can 

think of nothing more pleasant than gathering at 
N.D. with you and tlic other '29crs (Oct. 15). Sorry that I can't make it this year. Even JOHNNY DORGAN's insults would be bearable. My best wishes to the gang." 
From Green Bay, CLYDE BUNKER: "though r do not aliv'ays have the opportunity to attend the class of *29 parties, I surely appreciate re­ceiving the meeting notices and then reading about those who attended." 
The JIM CURRY'S of Great Neck, L.I., have been host to J. HAROLD DALY and to JERRY CROWLEY, who stopped by to relax from his \-acation. 
The JOE \\*HALEN"s had plans for a Christ­mas \-3cation in Florida with the family of daugh­ter-in-law Sue — St. Mary's, '54, and son JACK \VHALEN, *53. Tlicre are three little Wlialens. 
From the Alumni Office; FRAN CROWE reports a Wsii by the Cro«cs in January* with BOB SCHULZE and wife Rcgina in California. Bob, a roommate and best man, hadn't been seen for 28 years. Fran also talked to E.MMETT McCABE on the telephone and \-isitcd mucii of the Crowe Clan: daughter Nanc>­in San Francisco, expecting her fourth cliild and Fran's elcventli grandchild this month; brother Andrew, teaching and coacliing at Mission High, San Gabriel; and four children of brotlier Clem in the L.A. area, sons Pat and Bob, daughters Joanne and Anne. Tltc Itglitning trip also included the Rose Parade, Disnejiand and other local wonders. Congratulations (and more later) on the ap­pointment of ALBION GRIFFIN as cliief patent attorney for Bethlehem Steel. 
1930 
Devere Plunkctt O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 

BOB HELLRUNG, director of the St. Louis Medical Credit Bureau, WTOIC in recently: *'PJcasc excuse my delay in answering your letter re­garding members of the class of *30 In or near 
St. Louis. However, the '30 bo>*s are scarce in 
this area and thcx' are not making much noise 
these days. 
"GENE KILLOREN and I are the only ones 
in St. Louis proper. Gene is practicing law and 
doing very well. FRED ZIMMERMAN who grad­
uated from the Engineering School is with the 
Granite City SiccI Company across the river from 
us in Granite City, Illinois. He is personnel di­
rector. ^V^e haven't seen one another for years 
but occasionally wc get together on the tele­
phone. 
**Sorr>' we don't have more news lor you trom 
St. Louis. 
"By the way, Mrs. Hcllrung has asked me to 
inquire about the picture that was taken of the 
small '30 reunion whicli follo^ved the Alichtgan 
State Game last November. U'buld it be possible 
to get a copy of it? If so, will you please order 
one for me and let me know what the charge 
is.** 
For Bob and any others wlio'd like a copy 
of the picture printed in the last issue: TIic 
cliarge is 51 to BRUCE HARLAN, '49, Photo 
Lab, Notre Dame, Ind. 
FRANK "MOON" EATON sent a note from 
AVisconsin: "Thank you for your Christmas Greet­
ings. We had a most enjo>-able and bus>- holiday 
Season. 
"I surely liated to miss our 30th Reunion with the gang this past summer as I had planned on making the event for the last five years. My oldest son Jim graduated from tlie eighth grade that same weekend so there went my Reunion. 
"On our way to Mackinac Island this fall I stopped in >farinettc and looked up BUCKY LANGRIL my old Toomm:itef for a short gab­fest. Hadn't seen eacli other since our 25th re­union. 
Haven't mudi news on tlie Class of "30" as there aren't many of that \-intagc around here. I try to make the \'arious Afilu-aukce N.D. Club functions and I am looking forward to Universal 
N.D. night. Say hello to FATHER GLUECKERT 
for me. 
"Lots of good luck for '61." 
BERNIE CONROY sent a few news items in: **Thanl£S for your note and congratulations on the good job of keeping the 1930 crowd together. 
"DAN CANNON called roe the other night and said he and JACK were going up to Cleveland to the funeral for BILL DORE who died on tlic 31st. The ranks arc thinning out one by one. 
"How did our candidate TIM TOOMEY make out? I hope wc cornered enough votes to put lilm on the Board. (Almost enough — see below. Let's try a little harder next time. D.P.) 
"GEORGE "DUKE" KINGSLEY has not been well the past few months so JOHN BRILEY took over the chairmanship of the Annual Re­treat this year. Duke has done a great job of 
O 
#) 
•» 
•)) 

34 Notre Dame Alumnus, MaTcb-April, 1961 
Agctting the fellows out for the retreats for many ''years. "Give my best to FATHER CHARLES and keep things perking with the 1930 bo>'S. 
"My nephew, Tom Conroy graduated from Pitt last summer and is working for Pittsburgh National Bank. He left X.D. about five years ago." 
TIM TOOMEY again comes through with a ncws^- letter: 
**A happy and prosperous Xcw Year to you and all the lodge brothers. I wanted to let you know I did not do as well as other ^fassachu­sctts dignitaries in my quest for national ofjice as a director of Altmini ^Association. A wire from Jim Armstrong brought news the election was closest in years. Four hundred volr« separated high and low man in field of eight. 
"As soon as I saw the remainder of the field I tossed in the sponge because most of the 
^candidates were from cities with local alumni membership 4 to 6 times greater than the Boston Club enrollment. 
"The pleasurable feeling about the entire pro­cedure was the many wonderful letters, cards and notes I received from my gallant supporters in all the class groups that were at Xoire Dame during the time I was a student. The words of encouragement and gratitude expressed by the Riflemen as a means of thanking mc for some favor or for hanng remembered them in the class notes made me doubly proud I am a mem­ber of the Class of 1930, and some of these letters mean more to mc than any distinction whidi might have been mine if 1 had been elected to the Board. To all my classmates for their support, my sincere thanks and greetings for the New Year. 
"ED CONROY resigns his position as City O^fanager, Medford, Mass., on December 11, I960, to take o\xr another highly challenging assignment as coordinator of Urban Develop­ment, City of Youngstown, Ohio. We shall miss Ed verj* mudt around here. This here lad was a frequent guest at his home and those home cooked meals tasted mighty fine to a bachelor. We saw PAT CON\VAY, HAROLD DUKE, and DON SCHETTIG at the Navy game in Philly. Tlie Boston Club sponsored an air Junket to Miami for a 4 day sojourn in the Land of Sunshine. yVe had a chat with JERRY HOL­LAND who lives there. ^fet FREDDIE RHE.VUME, '31, who brought us news that TED TWOMEY is in Jacksonville and has left the liquid malt distributing field to enter business for himself. Some wag said j-ours truly li'eighs as much as Ted used to scale up at during his football games. At a football rally in Miami we ^chatted with ED KRAUSE, the 4 Horsemen, and JERRY OUELLETTE, *29, formerlv of Le^viston, 
ST, JOSEPH VALLEY —Club President Joseph E. Hickcy, '50 (center), receives a check from Paul Baxter (left) and Bill Fleming of the Studcbaker-Packard Corpo­ration. Proceeds of a collection by S-P associates of the late Bill Furey, '23, a Valley Club member, were donated to the 
I Scholarship Trust Fund, and the Club will I award a William J. Turcy Afemorial i Scholarship for 1961. 
^fe., but now in real estate business in Miami. We had a chat with BOB GORE, '31, and JLM SKt\HAN. Had dinner with Bob at his hotel in Fort Lauderdale. 
'*! attended the wake of my former professor in economics and one of my prime ribbers as a student, but in passing years a dear friend, the late REV. FR/\NCIS J. BOL.\ND, C.S.C., who was buried in Holy Cross Community Ceme­tery at Stonehill College, North Easton, where he served as president from 1950-1955. Father Boland died of a sudden heart attack on 12/31/60 while ser\-ing as chaplain at Veterans Hospital, New York City." 
From the Alumni Office: 
It's not a very startling surprise, but JOE LORDI, the Jersey oil man, basdiall monogram-mer and 1937 national squash racquets champ, was elected to a third successive one-year term as president of the New York Athletic Club in January". 
Tlie Law Class lost heavily with the death of WILLIAM DORE at Christmas and ARNOLD LEVANDOSKI on January 22. Sympathy to their families. 
1931 
! James T. Doyle 
' 902 Oakton Street 
{ £\-anston, Illmois 
REUNION RIME 

What '31 seers can predict without fears 
There'll be chances to gather for 30 more 
years? 

If you haven't begun to make plans, get it 
done 

For June 9-10-11 in Sweet Si.xty-Onc! 
A Happy New Year to all and by the time 
you receive this I should also add Happy Easter. 
Time Is n>'ing and I cannot seem to catch up with 
it. Starting with late fall activities I had a 
letter from the JLM McQUAIDs telling of their 
visit to the campus for the Michigan State game 
where they occupied the wheel chair platform 
next to JERRY WIGGINS and his wife. Thcv­
enjoyed seeing many of their friends, many of 
whom were mentioned in mv previous notes. Jim 
had a letter from FR. BERNARD RiVNSING, 
C.S.C., a member of our class, who is secretary 
general of the Holy Cross in Rome. While 
scheduled to return to the campus in June he 
hopes he might be able to get to the campus 
for our 30 Year Reunion this June. Jim and 
his alwa>'s-prcscnt wife, Marie, plan to be on 
the campus in June. RAY COLLINS reports on 
BILL CHfUVGO, the Aurora flash, whom he 
met at a Chicago Serra Club meeting recently. 
I had a note from BILL BERNING enclosing a clipping and picture of our BERT MALONEY on the occasion of a new venture he helped pro­mote in Austin, Texas. Bill heard from ART BERG.VN, TEX BRIEGER and HARRY KEN­NEDY, who happened to be in the Slates for the holidays. Bill's son was married in Dallas last May, Among the sad news to report is the death of JLM GRIFFIN in Chicago, October 23, 1960. Many of us saw Jim at the Michigan State game and were greatly shocked to learn of his death. Please remember him in your pray­ers. Jim is survived by hb widow, Dorothy, and eight children. He lived at 10508 S. Tripp Ave­nue, Oak Lawn, Illinois. 
TOM ASHE spent some time in Chicago for a meeting and phoned twice. Haring just re­turned from a vacation it was difficult to make plans to be with him at the airport the next day. Tom is well and ^vill probably be back in June. 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Chicago held its annual Knutc Rockne Au-ard dinner at the Illi­nob Atheltic Club December 1st and a record crowd attended. Among the '31ers on hand were, CARL CRONIN. GIL SEA.MAN, RAY COLLINS, BERT METZGER, TOM CONLEY, GENE VALLEE and FRANK LEAHY. My apol­ogies to others who were there and I clid not 
sec. I saw FRANCIS and Vera HENNEBERGER this fall and had an altogether too short \isit with them. They spent a fc^v iveelcs in Sew Orleans with their son who is one of the basket­ball stars at Loyola of the South. BEN OAKES sent a Christmas note telling of the '29-'30 team reunion at the Michigan State game. He is planning on bringing bis family to the June Reunion. They see Betty Nc>*don, \%ido\v of our classmate BOB NEYDON frequently. 
I had a chance to visit with the FRED S\VINTS in their new home in Nashville last fall. This was my first visit with a real close classmate in about ten years. Fred is well, has a son in first year - college and a daughter in high school and keeps himself busy in a successful accounting practice. I am trying to persuade him to bring his family to Chicago in June and then spend the reunion weekend on the campus. 
You v^ll all soon be receiving Reunion an­nouncements from the University and I hope that most of you will return for another suc­cessful meeting. V/c probably won't have all the activity of the twenty-fifth, as the campus isn't large enough to allow big promotions by every class. However, I am sure wc will do well if everyone miikes a sincere effort to be on hand. See you in June. 
From the Alumni Office: JIM WEBER of the Canton, O., Club reports that RA\'MOND F. RYAN, 506 Fifth St. N.E., Massillon, O., has taken out nominating petitions for the Democratic primary in May for the office of mayor of Massillon. Ray, who operates Ryan's Emergency Drug Store, is a native MassiUonian and a former general foreman of maintenance at Republic Steel's stainless division for 12 years. It's his first bid for public office. The R>*ans have four children: Mrs. Patricia Heinrich, 21; Michael, 19; Timothy, 14; and Kathleen, 10. Best wishes to REV. MAURICE M. FITZ­GERALD, CS.P., on the Silver Jubilee of his ordination to the priesthood, Feb. 12, 1936, On that date in 1961 Father Fitzgerald sang his An­niversary Mass at Old St. Mary's Church, home of the Paulist Choristers and the most recent base of his tremendously successful operations with the free Paulist Catholic Home Study Course, advertised in transitads, newspapers, etc. 
1932 
James K. Collins 3336 Kcnmore Road Shaker Heights, Ohio 

From the Alumni Office: Bouquets to JOHN E. RY.AN, Notre Dame's cherished link with the National Catholic Wel­fare Conference nev\-s desk, for his most deserved recognition from Pope John XXIII. John has been awarded the Benemerenti Medal for distinguished service to the Church. He received the av>fard from the hands of Archbishop Egidio Vagnozzi, Apostolic Delegate to the U.S., on DecL 19. A native of Streator, III., John reinforced his 
A.B. with grad work at Illinois and Georgetown. He has been with the NCWC press department since World ^Var II, in which he served first as an NCCS-USO director, then with the U.S. Army in Europe, winning the bronze medal at Liege, Belgium. He lives at 2480 Sixteenth St., N.W., Washington, D.C., with his wife, the former Jose­phine Bumham, and they have an adopted son. 
The Benemerenti medal has been given for al­most two centuries by the Popes to reward special services. John's bears the picture and name of Pope John on one side and on the other a cro\vn of laurel, symbolizing his achievement with the American Bishops' secretariat. 
Deepest sympathy to the parents of EDMUND 
J. KNIGHT, who died December 15 in Bloom­ington, Ind. A South Bend architectural engi­neer, he was working for Indiana University at the time of hb death. 
1933 
Joseph A. McCabe 2215 Lincoln Evanston, Illinois 

To the Class: Sincere regrets for the Ion? silence that has enveloped this column. It \vas for the usual reasons; a combination of work, homework, and 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 35 
no contributions from vou lads. 
Unforlunalcly, we did get one letter recently. 

It conveyed the sad news that one of our more 
colorful members has passed on, ED MORIAR­
TY. Xo one feels more saddened about this than 
I do, as for some time Eddy and I lived together 
whca wc came to Chicago after graduation. He 
w*a5 the closest of friends and companions, but I 
cannot better eulogize him llian to quote from a 
letter sent to mc from one of his vcr>* closest 
friends, JACK BREEN, of Detroit. 
"Vou may or may not be aware that our old 

clium Eddie Moriarty passed away on Xovcmbcr 
9th. He suffered a heart attack and died dur­
ing his sleep in Springfield, Illinois, where he 
was doing an excellent job as Public Relations 
man for tiic Illinois State Highway Department. 
**As you *vell know, Eddie was the all-timc 

champion at making friends. Although lie was 
located in Springfield less than a year, the State 
Ofhctals insisted on a memorial ser\ice there. 
His body w*as then returned to Ann .\rbor, ^ficli^ 
igan, for funeral ser\iccs at St. Thomas' Church 
(where he attended Grammar and High School) 
on November Hth. GRANGER WEIL and I were 
pallbearers. ERNIE GARGARO and TED FELD­
MAN also represented '33. Eddie is sur\'ived by 
his two sons and a sister. 
"Since Ed w*as easily one of the best liked on 

the campus, I know this report will be a shocker. 
Since 1933 Eddie had lived and worked for long 
stretclies in Detroit, Chicago, Los .\ngelcs, and 
Xc*** York. He also did a good X*a\'>* stint as a 
Lieutenant Commander on the carrier Bunker 
Hill. In cacli of tlicse locales he cemented old 
friendships and made new ones. ^\'hctIJer at a 
jat-alai game in Miami or tlic Derby at Chur­
cliill Downs, Eddie was sure to bump into old 
acquaintances. 
"I wish I had something more pleasant to 

report at this time." 
I agree with Jack that I wish wc had happier 

news to pass along. But in this light it be­
hooves US to make the best of our time. As we 
go into 1961, Wc arc only a couple of years away 
from our 30-ycar reunion. 
AVTiat could be a better way of preparing for 

it than sending in news of yourselves and the 
other fellows from tlie class that you know or 
hear from — we promise that wc will be back 
in business as a regular reporter. Just send 
your communiques to the above address. 
In closing, as is appropriate at the time tins 

is written — President JOHN 0*SH.\UGH.\ESSY 
joins me in wishing one and all the happiest 
of N'c**' Years. 
Best regards. 
JOE McCABE 
1934 
T. Edward Carey 223 Elmwood Rd. Rocky River 16, Ohio 

From the Alumni Oflicc: 
Secretary ED CAREY has suggested a picture-feature treatment on classmate THOMAS F. DALTOX of Ridgewood, X.J., and tlie motion has been seconded by a whole group of alert Easterners acting independently, enclosing clip­pings from the X.Y. Times, Brooklyn Tablet, etc Caught without a picture, we'll get it in an early issue. The news stories concerned the installation of a ramp to the bencli of the Bergen County District Court in the Hackcnsack Court­house to enable Judge-designate Dalton to preside from his wheclcliair, for TO.M DALTO.V is a paraplegic His patal\-sis dates from the suicide crash of a Kamikaze on the deck of the destroyer escort Rail off Okinawa when he was ser\'ing as gunnerv* ofHcer. Tlie storv* since then is one of dogged determination through law sdiool, private and municipal practice, inspiration from his mother, wife Anita, daughters Patricia and Penelope. It's worth telling later in greater detail. 
Tlianks to REV. GEORGE SCHIDEL, C.S.C., at the Holy Cross Fatliers' Sacred Heart Xov-iliate in Jordan, Minn., llic Class has reclaimed a pre­med companion of two years witli an immediate claim to Class leadership. DR. JOHN L. CAR­NEY of Seattle, Wash., and originally of AVilliston, N.D., had his son James Paul baptized last Oct. 30 by Archbishop Thomas A. Connolly of Seattle. James Paul happened to be the twelfth youngster in the Carney clan, already consisting of Lisa, 1; Bridget, 2; Timothy, 4; Marv, 5; Eileen, 7; Mau­reen, 8; Colecn, 10; >Iicliacl, 11; Patrick, 13; Cathleen, 14; and Jean, 16. We're tr>-ing to get 
36 Notre Dame Almnnus, March-April, 
^rORRISGN Pcrc et FiU JAMES M. JAMES R., '34 
N.D. Family, Calumet Construction Combo 
James R. Morrison has been elected president and treasurer of Morrison Con­struction Co. Inc., Hammond, Ind. He had been executive vice president. His father, James M. Morrison, company founder, was ad\*anced from president to chairman of the board of directors. The elder Morrison is a member of the .•\d\-isor^- Council for the College of Commerce. 
James R., with the company for 23 years, has full charge of operations. Since 1925 the Morrisons have pioneered oil field consti^ction techniques in the Mid­west, built the Iowa and Illinois sections of the first Oklahoma-Chicago petroleum products pipeline, and in 1960 constructed installations for Union Carbide Chemicals Co., Northern Indiana Public Sen'ice Co., and the Chicago South Works of U.S. Steel Co. Employing about 1,500, the Morrison firm is the largest industrial contractor based in the Midwest, with pipeline, public utility, petrochemical and steel mill divi­sions, plus Morrison Inc., recently organized as a heating and plumbing di^sion. 
James M., and his wife live at 2042 
E. 72nd Place, Chicago. He is president of the board of Hoosier Boys Town in Scherem'lle, Ind., has affiliations in a num­ber of contractors associations, and ^vas the first recipient (1952) of the annual Man of the Year award given by the Calu­met Region N.D. Club. 
His son joined the company in 1937 after obtaining a C.P~\- certificate and working three years with an accounting firm in Chicago. He ser\-ed as a lieutenant aboard destroyers during World War II, with most of his ser\'ice in the Southwest Pacific His ship fired the first shot of the Okinawa campaign, seven days before land­ing, and Morrison was awarded the Purple Heart medal for im"asion wounds as well as a commendation for serx-ice in action. 
He and his wife Margaret have three sons: James M., a junior in the College of Commerce; KeWn T., a sophomore, at Campion Academy; and David, in the seventh grade at St. Thomas More school, Munster, Ind. Active in affairs of the Calu­met Region Club, Jim sen'ed as its presi­dent, and later as a director. 
1961 
a picture of this assemblage. John went on to ^ North Dakota State, Rush Medical in Chicago,^ private practice in Renlon, Wash. Then the US. Na\y, special training at St. Louis U., and for the past 12 years Seattle, where you can wel­come and congratulate him at 1107 21st Street, North. 
1935 

Franklyn Hochrcitcr 702 Scarlet Dr. Towson 4, Marj'Iand 
If you thought that your scribe had resigned, brace yousclvcs for anotlicr five years of his ramblings. He was rc-clectcd, and he will carry on 'til the thirty marker is reached. 
We apologize for our silence since the reunion last June, but wc were caught in our own trap. First wc decided to rest for one trip to press. And then, in the meantime, oiher projects came along and time slipped past only too quickly. So, here wc arc many months later trying to explain ourselves out of an unfortunate situation. 
Tlic silver anniversar>' of the Class of '35 was a tremendous success as you have read in the ALUMXUS. Once again *Svc did it!" It was a fabulous weekend as all 220 returnees can underscore. Tlic local committee outdid them­selves, as wc knew ihc>' would. f* 
To make certain that the thJrlicth would be w*ell planned and kept on the road to success, DAX YOUXGERM AX (the twenty-fifth spear­head) was elected class president. To keep the bank account close at hand, L.\RRY SMITH came out of the election as treasurer. Larrj' is in Soutli Bend and will be readily ax-ailablc to Dan. 
Tlie four . vice-presidents once again represent the country. For the far West wc have: DR. VnrORIO G. ARO\DI. In the South there is: 
B. THOMAS 0\\*EX. The East will be the responsibility of: PHIL J. HEINLE. And the Mid-West has: AVALTER J. O'BRIEN. Let's all give them our cooperation as they START XOW to work on 1965! 
The • tired old man drew another five-year term as secretary. A\liat do you have to do to .­retire? ^taybc they arc grooming him for an IL 
. honorary degree one of these da>'s as the oldest class secretary in continuous operation. 
At the Class dinner wc received a beautiful 13 X 19 tncli scroll mounted on a plaque. It reads: "To FRAXKLYN C. HOCHREITER in recognition of 35 years of dcx'olcd and outstand­ing scrxicc as secretary to the Xotrc Dame Class of 1935 — Silver Jubilee — June 10, 1960." 
As we told the assembled multitude tliat Fri­day evening wc would do — we hung it over our desk ifhcrc h continues to draw attention from people coming into our office. Wc arc very proud to have it on our wall! Tliank you for your kind sentiments. 
We will not attempt to tell the stor>> of the 'weekend — it was very well handled in an ear­lier- issue. But we think a few statistics might be of interest. Wc predicted in the class di-­
.rector/, that about 250 men would Hkcly return fj I 
. for! reunion. Actually we were over enthusiastic since only 220 made it. Tliat figure includes 212 who, officially cliecked in and paid their fee at -."The Rock" and 8 more who registered for our reunion only at Dillon Hall or the Law building. 
Two - hundred-fifteen men said on their ques­tionnaires that they planned to return for the 25th.-Only 153 of these actually did return. Five of 25 who were undecided also turned up. The remaining 62 come from **non-responding breth­ren" "and **tlie lost brethren", as wc classified those who did not answer the questionnaire or whose addresses we did not know. ^Xe had pre­dicted that we would pick up a representative number from this S'^^Pt ^""^ **'c did. 
Incidentally, during reunion we were able to add 33 to our roster making a total of 638 on our living roll. Our ''rcquiescatit in pace" jumped A] one when JIM QUIXLAN was added. Jim allegedly died in 1959. Wc would like confir­mation. 
^ You might. be interested to know that a class 
Wlircctory \**as given to each returnee at re­union, regardless of whether he had sent back a questionnaire or not, and one ^vas mailed to all who cooperated in the questionnaire sur­vey but who could not make reunion. 2f you are among these two groups and did not get a directory please let us know. 
And so wc start to work on *65 when we would like to keep the record high with the Class of *35. Let*s determine now to bring back at least 200! 
Xow that we arc back on the beam, let's have some nc\%'s! Wc can't write about you if wc don't know what you arc doing. This is still YOUR COLUMN — wc just pass the word along. And, we have received nothing since last June from anyone! How about it gang, let's get back in stride. 
A word about JIM McAVENEY. Jim was 
^transferred to Baltimore by Addressograph-Muhi­graph last fall and moved the family in from Hamden, Connecticut, for Titan ksgixing. Shortly after the New Year Jim and Lola had several of us out for the . evening with our wives. Saw GENE O'BRIEN* from our crowd and FRANK MURPHY of the *36" class. Xccd we say that there was much reminiscing with a lot of name calling and face remembering. There should have been "burning ears" all over the counir>-. 
Wc did a fast show with Xotrc Dame of 2Vfar}'Iand College last Xovcniber. It was our first experience in college dramatics and wc felt like the old man we were supposed to be as "Dr. Haggelt" in "The Late Christopher Bean", surrounded by college . girls and Loyola college men. 
Tliat's it, gang! Keep the notes rolling in, please! 
0Fro m the Alumni Office: 
Welcome back to the Bard of To\«on. For fur­ther information on the activities of FR.ANKL\7s' HOCHREITER, see news of the Notre Dame Club of Baltimore. 
1936 
Robert F. En'in 1329 Kensington Rd. 
Grossc Pointc Park, 
Michii^an 


REUNION RIME As our Jubilee nears, some silver appears In our hair to remind us ihat 25 years Their gamut have run. Let's be second to 
none On June 9-10-11 in Sweet Sixtj-One! 
Our 25th will soon be here. It's the only Silver Anniversary- Reunion we'll ever have, so don't miss it. If you've never returned since '36, if you don't expect to attend regularly in the future, if you Iiavcn't missed a one in tlic past — if you arc in any of these or other 
1^categories, accept no excuse from youself or any-
Ponc else for not coming back to your campus home this June. Our local committee and the Alumni office are making big plans for us. There'll be plent>- of scheduled and unscheduled events. But most of all, the Class of 1936 — our Class, your Class — will be there and in large numbers. Tliis is the heart of a Reunion; the chance to renew friendships; rcWcw the doings of our classmates in this tremendous quarter cen­tury since we graduated; revisit the campus scenes of happy memory and explore the niany changes accomplished at Notre Dame in those years. 
In an attempt to prevent anyone from saying. "I didn't kno\%'", "I forgot", "Nobody asked me" or "I didn't know who was returning", our President, JIM SHERRY, has appointed local chairmen In South - Bend and area cliainncn throughout the ' country. I've alerted you that JERRY VOGEL and MORRIE COOPER are 
^heading up the South Bend group and I'm sure they'll add a postscript to this column when it reaches the Alumni office. Here's the Jlst of area cliairmen to whom Sherr\- will be WTit­
XULSA—Chatting at the dedication of a hospital donated by the Warren Family art 
(I. to r.) Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., N.D. e.\ecutivc vice-president; Francis Cardina 
Spellman, Archbishop of New York; William K. Warren, Tulsa, and William K. ^Varrcn Jr., '56, Midland, Tex. 
ing soon: NEW EXGUVND — PAUL CUM­MINGS, Worcester, Mass.; TOM DUN'X, Springfield, Mass.; BILL FIEWEGER, New Milford, Conn.; NEW YORK — GEORGE .MIL­TON, Sands Point, Long Island, N.Y.; TOM ME.\GHER, Rochester, N.Y.; L.\RRY PALKO­VIC, Johnstown, N.Y.; MID-ATL.\NTIC STATES (N.J., Pa., Del., Md., Va., AV.V.) — SEB^VSTLVN BONET, Bound Brook, N.J.; RAY DEELY, Washington, D.C.; TO.M GORM.\N, Parkersburg, W. Va.; JOE WALDRON, Yardley. Pa.; JOE BARBER, Erie, Pa.; SOUTIIE.-\STERN REGION — MATT THERNES, Homestead, Fla.; JOHN RYAN, Ormond Beach, Fla.; SOUTHERN REGION — DON McCORMACK, Memphis. Tenn.; NORV CVSPER, Louisville, Ky.; MICH­IGAN-OHIO-INDIANA — ART CRONIN, De­troit, Micliisan; FRr\NCIS JOYCE, Toledo, Ohio; JACK BRITTON, Columbus, Ohio: GEORGE WOLF, Bloomfield Hills, Mich.: GEORGE aVN'NON, Muskegon, Mich.; JI.\i FOOHEY, Fort Wavne, Ind.; MIDWEST RE­GIO.V (HI., loH-a, ^Vts., :iUnn.) — BERT BAUR, Chicago, III.; GENE TO.MIN, Gales-burg, III.; RENO Z.\Rz\NTONELLO, Home-wood, 111.; BILL GOTTSACKER, Shcbovgan. Wis.; DAN McL/VUGHLIN, Minneapolis, Minn.; GREr^T PLAINS STATES — TO.\f RE.ARDON, Sioux Falls, S.D.; BOB ^fc.^ULIFFE, Salina. Kansas; ROCKY MOUN'TAIN ST.VTES — JOHN COYNE, Denver, Colo.; JESS H.UVLEY, BoUc, Idaho; SOUTHWEST REGION — JOE O'NEIL, Midland, Texas; PAUL DOYLE, Houston, Texas; JOHN MOR^VN, Dallas, Texas; P.VT MALLOY, Tulsa, Okla.; WEST COAST REGION — WIN DAY, La-Xfesa. Calif.; ART VARNEiVU, Whittier, Calif.; JLM BURKE, 
Mcnio Park, Calif.; JOHN DEMPSEY, Tacoma. 
Wash. 
Now, fellows, your job is to make sure that all '36crs in your riciniiy are contacted per­sonally, by 'phone or by mail to make sure they'll be back. Maybe ride pools can be ar­ranged, buses chartered, pony expresses or­ganized, or what have you. 
But while we're planning such a joyful event, wc are sad to announce the death of FRED SOL/\RI which occurred December 23. Fred was fatally injured in an automobile accident in his home town of Pembroke, Massachusetts. Our sympathy is extended to Mrs. Solan and her five children. 
As usual, not much correspondence since our . last column. May the next secretary have better luck! GEORGE (SPIKE) GVNNON called me from ^fuskcgon just before Christmas to send greetings and chat about our Reunion coming 
up. It was real good to hear from you. Spike. 
Our most faithful correspondent, LARRY PAL­
KOVIC, sent along a note that BILL SAFFA. 
JI.\f R\GLLASOTTI, and ALAN DOSOVAS art 
coming to the 25th and he is working on JOE 
MAHAR and ANDY HUFNAGEL in his ares 
to insure their return. Nice going, Larry. I'lr 
sure you'll do a good job of recruiting in Nc\* 
York State. 
Well, that's about, it for now. There is still 
materia! from our survey but this spasm has 
been kind of long winded, and besides you'll 
get all the news first hand when you sec the boy< 
in June. 
One of the assignments of reunion worker R.AY DEELY in Washington,. D.C., is to persuade one of the world's greatest t>'coons to take a week end off June 9 from his killing' • responsibilities. JOHN S. GLE:VSON, JR., sixth administrator ol the Veterans Administration since the establish­ment of the agcnc>* in 1930, is the youngest man ever to hold that title. He has an annual budget of more than $5 billion and a pajToli ol about 172,000 employees. Some of John's other re­sponsibilities are: 446 field stations, including hospi­tals, regional and district offices, clinics, supply depots, veterans' homes, etc.; 6,000.(X)0 insured veterans; 3,000,000 loans; 10,000,000 vets under the GI Bill educational program; 4,000,000 compensa­tion and pension payments; and the largest medical program in the U.S. He should need some R. & R. by reunion time. 
Nobody has ever been better qualified for the job: graduate work at the Har\-ard Business School and the Wbconsin U. School of Banking before his rbc to vice-president of the First National Bank of Chicago; promotion from private to lieutenant calonel in the W.W. II Pacific campaign, with a bushel of decorations, and subsequently to major general and division commander in the Army Re­ser\'e; all manner of veteran actiWtics, including national commander of the tVmcrican Legion; and innumerable ci^ic and charitable endeavors. AH this and, with wife Mary Jane, six sons: Jack, 17; Dan, 13; Dick, II; Tom, 9; Dave, 7; and Marty, 4. 
TIic '36 football squad is making the ALUMNUS by platoons. Following BILL SHAKESPEARE, noted in the last issue as Sports Illustratcd's pick for the Silver Jubilee All-America, come i\NDV PILNEY and FRANK GAUL in this issue — a noted passing combination of the Ohio State fracas. Look for Pilnej* \Wth a new Irish addition to his Tulane. coaching staff and Gaul with his attractive family. And while you're at it, • say a prayer for FRANK "SPEED" GAUL, a guest at. one of Gteason's installations, slowed to. a standstill by the ra\'ages of emphysema tn his lungs. Better 
NotTe Dame Alumniis, March-April, 1961 37 
still, write to Frank if you can at Brccksville Vet­
erans Hospital, Broadncw Heights, O., telling him 

you'll pray for him and remember him at the 
25th reunion he can't attend. 
Looks like Cooper will have competition from 
other pharmacists, including JOHN L. THRO of 
Mankaio, Minn,, ^^,ilO recently completed a beauti­
ful neu* building for the drugstore founded by his 
grandfather after the Civil AVar. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Among the classmates meeting and planning at 

tlie homes of co-<Jiairman JERRY VOGEL and 
MORRIE COOPER for the "Perfect '36" SUvcr 
Jubilee have been: GEORGE McXEILE, engineer­
ing wheel from ^\^leelabrator, courtesy of his wife 

Helen; JACK SCHOOXO\'ER, the ^Vhirlpool kid, 
thanks to spouse June; lawyer TED PREKO^^T^Z, 
through the kind cooperation of better half Gwen­

dol>-n; U.S. Rubber czar DALE LOVELL, cour­
tesy of his mate Vera; and math prof. REV. 

JOHN C BURKE, CS.C , by spca'al permis­
sion of the N.D. Fire Department which he 
ser\'es as chaplain and honorarv clucf. Putting in 
the Alumni OfBce oar has been JOHN LrVUGH-

LIN> M8. Special thanks to Pauline, patient wife 
of SdiifTer Drugs' MORRIS COOPER, and Leali 
Vogcl, helpmate of River Park dnema king Jerry, 
for opening tlieir homes to this pretzel-soaking 
horde. 
Details of the program they have \vorked up 

will be presented in a scries of special mailings 
to the Class. Suffice it to say that a small pre­
mium will take care of all food, drink, enter­
tainment and gratuities for the entire week end; 
that the entire program will be relaxed and in­
formal, at the urging of JIM SHERRY, BOB 
ERVIN and the Michigan delegation; in short, 
that it will be a reunion never to be forgotten. 
On hand to welcome the crowd at Lyons Hall, 
beside the aboN-c-named local and national com­
mittee members, will be others who have not 
been able to attend meetings but offered their 
weekend ser\icc, work permitting: for legal and 
transportation advice, trucker CILVRLES PIERONI, 
\vho5e daughters have long had a prix'ate tele­
phone listing so that Pop and Virginia can get 
a word in edgewise; for free medical advice, DR. 
HENRY A. STAUNTON, if wife Clarissc \nH let 
him escape a houseful of boys; RAY HERRLY, if 
Mildred and U.S. Rubber permit; and many more. 
1937 
Joseph P. Quinn P.O. Box 275 Lake Lcnape Andover, Ne^v Jersey 
The Class Secretary is writing this column 

from a nice easy chair with his foot all wrapped 
up in a cast over the knee. Tlic "athlete" of 
the family took tlic boys skating just before 
Christmas, and after three large strides, figure 
eights, etc. managed to fracture his ankle in 
two places. So, now your Secretary is diair­
bome and still verj* little to report as far as 
correspondents are concerned. Must say that 
even the spirit of Christmas didn't move too 
many men. Remember, just two Junes from 
now and we will be celebrating our 25th reunion. 
The Committee will be sending you many forms, 
so please be ready to cooperate on \'ital info 
whidi we will be after. 
JIM WALDRON heads the list this time from Trenton, N.J., where Jim practices law and at the present is serving his second term as president of the ^fcFCcr Couaty Bar .'\s5oc., is also chairman of the State Bar Assoc .\mericanism Comm., and for his churcli work is on the Executive Comm. of the Diocese of Trenton and head of their ^le­morial Gift Comm. for the St. Francis Hospital. Our men manage to gel all these good pay­ing jobs. Jim's family includes two bo>'5 and two girls. He has a real connection now in ^V3shing­ton as his wife and ^Ir. Kennedy were old neigh­bors in Bronxville. Jim was formerly with the FBI in Honolulu, then went in service as a coimter-tntelligence agent for O.S.S. serving in French Indo-China, Formosa and Peiping. (May come in handy now.] Jim reported having lunch with ED HUISKING (Mt. Lakes N.J.), didn't say who had the fish hooks in the pockets, tliat he also corresponds with the relocated easterner, PINKY CARROLL, as manager of the big hospi­tal in Manhattan, Kan. His cx-roomie, JACK McAULIFF has his own architectural firm in Hawaii. This is the first we Itave heard from Jazk in a long time. 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 
ANDY PILNEY, '36, head football coach at Ne^v Orleans' Tulane University, might be plotting the play whereby he'll get away to his 25th reunion to new assistant coach George Dickson, *50, who recently filled the backficld assignment at Tulane. 
A cliancc meeting in Grand Central Station, N.Y., brought two letters from JACK GILLESPIE and JOE SCHILLING, first meeting since 1937. Joe didah beh'cvc a man could look so young and still be as bald as JACK has grown. (Hard water in Conn.) Gillespie has a son with the Bene­dictine's at St. Bernard's, down in Alabama. (Tliis is the long way to Indiana, but the scholarships are greater). TIic Sales ifanager of Callaway Mills, JOE SCHILLING, reported his activities through the carpeting field over the years since *37. From Bigelow-Sanford, to Beattie, to Firth and now Callaway. His selling has taken him coast to coast and still about 60% of his time away from being a counlrv- squire in Conn. His son attends Dcnison U. in Ohio, and he has two daugh­ters at home. TOM HUGHES keeps after Joe regarding N.D. afTain and news and Joe hopes to make the 25th reunion as the old gall bladder operation kept him from the 20ih, PAUL SHEEDY checks in with a few notes to bring the class up to date on "Doan's Pills". Tlicsc will be {catured at the 25th replacing all the Wildroot wc drank at the 20th. "Pablo" has a son, Brian, a soph at the U., joining many other sons of classmates. CORMIER, ED CROTFY, AL SCHWARTZ, BONDI, and HUGHES. Believe this list should be brought up to date. Pablo visited in Salina v«ith tlic AL SCHWARTZ clan and re­ported No. 8 was well on the way to arriving at the Sclivvartz household. There must be a lot of $$ in the wholesale hardware business. RALPH CARDINAL had better adjust some of his poli­cies to get in on tills gravy train. By the time you read this the ballots will all be in and count­ed. Certainly hope you backed BILL FALLON to the hilt. Bill has been a driver for N.D. since leaving scliool, active in his N.Y. Club work and the >fetropolitan area in general. (Bill, don't send the Secy a T-Bird, a Falcon will be all right.) By now you know that Bill is the sales manager for the Ford agencv- in New Rochelle. Again, you fellows make the news — so let the Secy know. TIic address appears at the head of the column. Wc will be needing plenty of ncv« for the 25th reunion plans. 
The banker from AVyo™in5. GORDON MUR­PHY, V.P., took in the sights of California over the Christmas Season, sending all these fine weatlicr cards, etc. Murphy and Gillespie reported the election of JACK GALLIVAN as Publisher of the Salt Lake Tribune, and president of the parent organization. When "ZEKE" CACKLEY made a local alumni stop in Salt Lake, Gallivan handled all the details in fine fashion. This is the first the column has been able to come up with some­thing on Gallivan, and the Sec>* used to cJieck Iiim in at Monisso* Hall along vrith the man from Juneau, BEN MULLEN, and the Madison Avenue flannel suit man, PAUL FOLEY. 
I have Just received a notice that JOHN LEVICKI died in Lakewood Heights, Cleveland, Ohio. Please pray for him. 
JERRY CLAEYS reported spending the summer in northern Michigan, the fall in tr>ing to hold things together in S.B. and looking after the Quinn relatives at St. ifar>*'s. The Claeys Candy 
1961 
Co., is still operated by Jerry and his brother—. Don. So, forget the calories and look for CIaey4.' Candy products. Remember — send the news — Box 275, Andover, N.J. 
From the Alumni Office: New distinctions for tlie class include ^fodcrn Medicine's 1961 aw*ard for distinguished achievement to DR. CHARLES A. HUFNAGEL, professor of surgery- at Georgetown University and member of the N.D. Science and Engineering Council. Dr. Cliarlic cited Tor his development of surgical tech­niques for treating heart and great vessel disorders: dcv*eloping the first successful method for freezing tissue grafts; cooling methods for cardiac arrest during surgery; artificial heart valves andaortic valves of plastic, etc. Charlie was also praised as an amateur sculptor and lapidarv*. Prof. ED­WARD FISCHER of the N.D. communications arts department, received the Alumni ^lerit Award of St. Joseph's College, Rensselaer, Ind., and dcUv-^' crcd the baccalaureate address at the sdiooVs January' graduation ceremonies. Ed, who was cited for his work as a teacher and for his new* book *'Thc Screen Arts," told the graduates some of the characteristics of a truly educated man. WILLL4M PRENDERG.AST of the O.S.S., Johns Hopkins and the Naval .Academy, is still on the campaign trail as director of research for the Re­publican National Committee. It brought him to South Bend as speaker at the Lincoln Day Dinner sponsored by the St. Joseph County Republican ^Voraen's Assn. 
1938 
Bumic Bauer C^ 
1139 Western Avenue 
South Bend 25, Ind. 

This time vve'll go from .A to Z right off. ABE ZOSS just recently v\-as named vice-president in charge of researcli, development and manu­facturing of Photek, Inc., of Kingston, Rhode Island, a newly formed subsidiary of Textron, Inc. Before joining Photcck Abe was with Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing in St. Paul as pro­duction manager of the Chemical Division. Abe was a well known Villager at N.D. who added _ a Master's and Doctor's degree in Chcmistrytj * after graduating with us. From IWl he was with General Aniline & Film Corporation until joining 
M.M. and M. in 1957. Abe was a member of a joint U.S. govt.-Iadusir>- intelligence mission to Europe in 1946 and has 34 patents and publica­tions in the Wnyl pol>"mers, high-pressure acety­lene chemistry and plant management fields. 
To make room for Abe and his family in the East, TOM QUINLAX and his family (2 boys and 3 girls with an equalizer hoped for in the spring) pulled up stakes in Connecticut last fall and started a new business, Mail Deliver>' Service Co., P.O. Box 90, in San Framcisco. Tom still owns a summer hotel back at Lake Waramaug, Connecticut where for ten years he was known as Mr. G.O.P. and ser\-ed three terms in the state legislature. Tom says he's willing to sell bis hotel to any Democrats. Before escaping Ken­nedy's clutches Tom saw GEORGE BELANGER|j!i) who lives in WTiitehall, N.Y., where he is presi­dent and general manager of Champlaia Spi'nneis Co.; also TOM HARDART in Bronxville, N.Y.. and TOM GRANGES in Greenwich, Connecticut. Tom won't be without a place to stay back East even if he does sell his hotel, as his brother FAR­RELL QUINLAN, '44, has one at Lake Sunapee, New Hampshire. 
^fore news about our eastern bretliercn comes from BILL MURPHY who left NJ). after our Sophomorc year but is ntnv with the Notre Dame Foundation of Greater New York since 1958. Prior to that BUI was a salesman for a moving company for two years. From 1940 to 1956, Bill was in Civil Service in the Ncw^ Rochelle, N.Y., fire de­partment, except for a 314 year Navy stint during the war aboard baby flattop USS Guadalcanal. Bill's eldest of eight children, a girl, was just married last September. Bill says that BILLfjTi GALLIN lives in New Rochelle where he is in • the construction business. He hxis seven diildren, one of whom is a sophomore at N.D. this year. 
|£ILL MULLINS is anottier townsman of Bill's 
K'ith the leak-proofiest plumbing business in New Roctielte and with four sons to help him. FOOTS ELLIOTT, in the meat distributing business in N.R., has three children. The last Bill heard of RED SCLAFANI was that he was a colonel in the army. JOE HOCTOR, too, was in the army as per most recent communique. CHARLIE GROSS '\%'as recently elected a city oflicial (and helped carry Kennedy) in Tarrytown, N.Y. 
Sad news came late last fall about the death of AL DREILING of a heart attack on October 28 at his folks home in Victoria, Kans., where he had gone with his wife, Ethel, to recover from a first heart attack in August. Al was president of the Kansas^Oklahoma club at N.D. and a member of the Political Science Academy. He received his law degree from Marquette and during the war was with the Federal Wage and Hour and Public Contracts Division. After the war AI worked 
[lor Weyerhaeuser Timber Co., Shell Oil, and i^forquette National Bank in ^linneapolis, where he met his wife. They were married in 1955, after which he attended Georgetown for a year and then studied two years in Germany and Italy before returning to Georgetown U. Law School OS a full time professor. Al attended 5ummcr sessions at the U. of Colorado and on the ^^•ay thru South Bend alwa>-s visited with BOB DUBOIS and DON FISHER. Al had planned to return to Europe to teach in Austria next summer. I received a wonderful letter from Al's widotv t^rittcn on his birthday, Dec. 6, describing his beautiful death in her arms and thanking us all for the prayers that we have offered and will offer up for the peaceful repose of his soul. On Dec. 3 Father Tom O'DonnclI said a special mass for AI at N.D. 
Among the Christmas cards was a missive ifrom the Mexican missions in Austin, Texas, from FATHER VINCENT DELA\'Y, C.S.C., xvho is 
recoupcrating las strength after an operation last Marcti on "my not so comely liver," so that lie can return to East Pakistan. After waiting out passage to India during the war here on the "Home Mission,'* living-out-of-a-bag circuit and in the Texas-Mexican missions, he made it to India on a com laden freighter in *46 and stayed 10 years. He had just returned to East Pakistan in *58 when he fell ill and was brought back for surgerj'. Anxious to get back Father wonders if he is the only foreign missionary in our class. Outside of JOE KUHARICH, who was in Hawaii coaching College All-Stars (none from N.D., in­cidentally) last Januar>% I don't know of any other. 
Received a fine Christmas card pic of '*BIG*' JOHN SULLlVfVN with wife and two bo>-s and Kwo girls from St. Paul; also, after a lapse of 
20 years, a card from ED MANN and wife Mabel, 2059 E. 72nd St., Chicago 49. 
Anticipating the move ahead in the sixties movement arc TOM KAVANAUGH, now at 250 Martin St., Birmingham, Mich.; ART MAEHLER 
NOTRE DAME FORUM participants meet in New York before their analysis of 1960 elections, (from left) Clarence E. Manion, fonner dean of the Law School; moderator William V. Cuddy, president of 
•the N.D. Club of New York; and Paul M. 
Butler, fonner cluurman of the Democratic National Committee. 
from La Mesa to 10440 Forallone, Cupertino, Calif.; and TOM ELDER, from \Vaynesbur5, Va., to 1372 Ingles Ave., Columbus, Ohio. 
In South Bend the architect for the new Co-Cathedral. St. Mattheu-s, u-as DON SMITH. 
From the Alumnt Office: 
TTic JoumaJcse of star reporter NICK LAAI­BERTO noted a typical quiet month in the Dcs Moines area: "We had a $2 million embezzlement at Sheldon, la., by a 58-year-old woman, daughter of bank president, respected in community, etc. Elliott Roosevelt involved through firm (Northern Biochemical) using bank money to operate. Mudi of the story still to come out. Then we had a bizarre kidnap-slaying-robber>*. Con\ict steals car of youth, 16; youth catches him, is forced to ac­company him to lonely spot, is shot; convict covers body u-itli grass, comes back to Des Moines, robs two ser\'icc stations, apprehended by police on routine check, fights with three of them; police check car ownership, find boy missing, find body next day; convict confesses. Right now we\c got a police department scandal. One patrolman con-Wcted of two burglaries, decides to talk just be­fore going to state prison, implicates 20 other policemen." Sure is a dull life, Nick. 
1939 
James N. Motschall 
Singer-Motschall Crp. 
10090 West Chicago 
Detroit 4, Michigan 

This is the last information that will appear in 
the class notes in the Class of 1939 unless some 
of you would be kind enough to send me the 
latest information concerning vou and yours. 
VINCE DECOURSEY is still the manager of a 
datr>' plant in Kansas and he lives with his wife 
and sue children: Vincent, Jr., Thomas, Robert, 
David, Stephen and John. 
ffc said lie had a great time at the last re­
union and is looking forward to our 25th get-
together. 
JOHN B. CELLx\ II is vice-president of Cclla 
Vineyards in Fresno, California where he lives 
with his wife Tina and three cJiiIdren: Barbara 
Ann, 12; John L., II; and Peter M., 7. 
Just a few days aijo I received a letter from 
C. A. McNAMARfV who was the bearer of un­fortunate nctvs tliat LOYD WORLEY, one of our classmates, died on October 9 In PIiocnLx, Arizona, from a heart attack. I hope that all of us will remember him in our prayers. 
EDWARD J. F^\NNING is a ChevTolct auto­
mobile dealer in Aurora, Illinois, where he resides 
witli his wife and three children; Edward, Jr., 16; 
Alice, 13; and Susan, 7. 
Ed would like to hear from his old friend 
CHARLIE ENGLEHEARDT. 
THOMAS B. HOGAN is a certified public ac­
countant in Westficid, New Jersey. Tom and his 
wife Grace have a fine family of five who arc: 
Nancy, 17; Kathleen, 15; Tliomas, Jr., 13; John 
M., 9; and Joseph, 5. 
Tom would like to hear from PAUL KLUDING and FR.\NK FIT2PATRICK. 
J. L. SUNDERLAND is an accountant for American Fork in Utah, where he resides \vith his wife Marvel and daughters: Fat, 18; Sue, 14; and Cora Lee, 10. 
In the past 20 years he has seen JAKE KLINE but other than that has seen no one since the 15th reunion. 
He would like to hear from BILL RICKEY, CHUCK REDDY and HAROLD BLAKE.\fAN. 
EUGENE F. MILBOURN is zone manager of American Motors (home base is here in Detroit). Gene lives in Denver, Colorado, with his wife Jean and daughter Sue and sons Rickey and Patrick. 
Gene moved to Denver from Kansas City where he lived for some years and hopes to get back to Notre Dame occasionally to sec a football game. 
ALFRED KIEFER has a ver>* fine pliarmacy in Dade City, Florida, where his wife and sons Alfred, Jr., and Joe and daughter Pamela, have a great time in that sunny warm climate. 
Al has a constant welcome mat for anyone com­ing through Florida on Highways 301 and 98. 
WILLIAM W. RUNGE is an investigator for the U.S. Department of Labor. He lives ia Crawfordsville, Indiana, with his wife AlBry Eliza­beth, sons Tom, Bill, and John and daughter Mary Frances. 
Bill would like to hear from LARRY PETRO­SKIUS and GEORGE REEVES. 
J. GREGORY RICE is an accountant living ia River Edge, New Jersey, and his family consists-of Gregory, Mary Jane, Michael Peter, and Pa­trick Joseph. Greg says there is no more running as he did in college except tr>*ing to keep up with his young brood. 
He has officiated during the Indoor season at Madison Square Garden. Greg would like to hear from MATT MERKLE, KEN COLLINS and JOE. RIZZI. 
FR^VNK TULLY recently was given the job of General Purchasing Agent for the Ralston Purina Co. and has four lovely daughters: Vickcy Ann, Mary Grace, Elizabeth, and Catherine. 
FRED SIMON, JR. is a manufacturer of brooms and mops called the Waco Broom and Mop Co. in Waco, Texas. He resides in Waco-with his wife Elizabeth and family consisting of Diane, Susan, Fred III, Mark, ^{ichael and Ralph and by now number seven which \vas due shortly after I received this letter which is now a year old, probably a pretty little girl. 
Fred wanted to get to the 15th reunion but he­couldn't and is planning to get u*ith us on thc­25th. He just finished a four-year term as member of City Council and was Mayor Pro Tem tlie­last year. Because of these activities and having a large family be bad a slight heart attack but has recovered and is doing fine "healthwisc" at the present moment. 
JOSEPH F. KIN*NE.\LEY lives in Milton,. Massachusetts, and has a partnership In a whole­sale meat business. At the time I received his­lettcr he had a daughter, Jane Frances, and a. son, Joseph, and was expecting a 3rd. 
I would like to receive a letter bringing mc­up-to-date on the new addition and other hap­penings in your life in the past year or so. 
Joe would like to hear from TOM POWERS, aVRL FRICKE, DAN SCHMIDT and TOM KALM.\N. 
PHIL DAHAR is in the aluminum siding and contracting business in DilIon\-ale, Ohio, where he resides with his wife Mary and sons Philip, Jr., and Richard. Phil would Hke to hear from J.AKE KOVALCIK and NURIO TONELLI. 
In addition to ^veight lifting, where he nearly set the world's record, he has been athletic di­rector in a C.Y.O. in Wheeling, West Virginia. Hope to see you back at our next reunion. 
F. WIN. SCHULTE is a design engineer for Lockheed Aircraft Corp. in Los Angeles, California. His family consists of: Sharon, twins Victor and Thomas, and Heidi. 
His daughter, Sharon, planned to enter the Sisters of Notre Dame in September of this past year and the twins are in the Salesians* Junior Seminary. 
GEORGE T. WILLIAMS lives in Toronto, Canada, and works at the Creamette Co. of Canada, Ltd. He has a family consisting of Jim, Shane, Patrick and Michele Louise. 
BERNARD J. PAG.AN is a funeral director in Bath, New York, where he lives wth his wife, Sally; James, who is now a student at Notre Dame; Patrick, and newly adopted Anne and Kevin. Bemie, that sure sounds like you have a fine family. 
Bemie has seen PAUL DONOVAN of Elmira and would like to hear from ED SIMONICH and TOM PO\VERS. 
JOHN S. CLARK, JR. is a builder and in the real estate business in Chicago, Illinois. 
GEORGE M. O'NEIL, JR., is the owner of a Pepsi-Cola Bottling Plant in Mt. Vernon, New-York. His family consists of Susan, Mike, John, Jane, and Ann. 
HARVEY G. FOSTER Is still an F.B.I. man in New York City where he lives with his wife Mable and sons John and Daniel. 
EDWARD M. BROSCOE is a principal of a Junior High School in Syracuse, New York, where he lives with his wife Genevieve. 
J. R. (PAT) GORMAN is a lauyer in Wash­ington, D. C, w*here he lives with his wife Marge and his family, Kathy, Michey, and Susan. 
These are all of the letters and questionnaires 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 39 
that were sent to me this past year or year and a half. I would certainly appreciate hearing from any of >'ou wlio have never written to me and any of the class vvlio have further news in regard to family, position, new homes, etc., because it would be nice to have a large article in the coming issues o[ the ALU.MXUS. 
1940 
James G. Brovn 144 East 44th Street New York, N, Y. 

From the .-Mumni OHice: EDWARD J. HART, a veteran of 20 years' sales and engineering experience in electronics, has been appointed manager of the microwave department lor R.C,A. Ed Joined the company in 1953 as a microwave sales coordinator. In W\\\'. II be was a procurement officer for communications equipment with the Signal Corps. A native of Brooklyn, he'll remain In Moorestovvn, X. J., in his new post, supen-ising microwave marketing, 
•engineering, and special projects-
JOHN P. HEXEBRY, the Chicago businessman (investments) and .Air Force Rescr\-e general, has been named a deputy commander of tbc Milttarv* 
Air Transport Command (M.ATS). One of the *40 Class' foremost air heroes, both in W.W. II and Korea. John had been mcat'iottcd widely as President Kennedy's possible clioice as administrator of the Federal .-Vnation Agcnc>-. MATS is the third largest Air Force command, and a line as­signment seems more fitting for a man who flew more than 200 Pacific missions in WAV. II and was the youngest general in Korea, counting the Distinguished Scr\-ice Cross and ^^edal among his decorations. He and Mary have five cliildren, Patricia, 15; John, Jr., 12; Waller, II; Mar>-, 7; and Jeaninc, 2. 
Cheers for HAROLD C. BL.\KE.MAN, who has heen appointed associate counsel for Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. A native of Flint, Mich,, Harold was a Commerce and Law grad, won tlie Farabaugh award, etc Before joining Mass. Mutual, he was an attorney* for the Treasur>­Dept. for five years and a mortgage and real estate attome\- for another firm. Harold is married lo 
the former Mary Bachlcl of South Bend. Hiey 
have sex'cn clitldren: Dand, 14; Carol, H; Mark, 9; John, 8; Steven, 6; Sarah, 5; and James, 1. 
An overdue salute lo South Bend's BILL Mc-INERXV, who was installed a few months ago as president of the St. Joseph County Bar .Associ­ation. 
1941 
James F. Spcllnian 7 East 42nd Street Ne^vYorIil7, N. Y. 

In ilie short i.p3ce of ilirce months, we shall cele­brate our 20tli Reunion at Notre Dame. It hardly seems possible that two decades »vill have passed since we left the campus. Some of us, about 110, were most fortunate to be able to return for the 1956 Reunion; and all who did ^Toued to return five years hence, God willing. 
BILL HOSINSKI and JI.\I HA.\NIGAN iiaie been asked to super\ise an extra-spedal class pro­gram on Friday night, and we'll have all the usual ingredients of golf, banqueting and general jollity on the Quad. 
You will receive more complete information re­garding tlie 20th Reunion, soon. Tliis letter is merely a gentle reminder that it's later tlian you think. All too easily, we tend to drift apart, losing contact with one another and witli the University. Some of our classmates have kept in toucli with the Secretary-, but far too few. TIic Reunion brings us back together ph^'sically, and helps holster us spiritually as well. 
In a more material theme, h would be a de­sirable goal to establish a Class Fund, of a perma­nent nature; this fund to have several worthy purposes, such as a mass celebration for our friends who have gone on before us; for a dass direcior>­such as lias been accomplished by the '35 men; and for financing our next and future Reunions in a manner worthy of "old classmates'*. Your com­mittee feds that the Fund can be started and m^ntained through yearly nominal dues; however 
40 Notre Dame Alumnus, MaTch-April, 
THOMAS M. FITZGERALD, JR., '38 President with capacity for capacitors 
Thomas M. T'l tzgcra] d was rcc en tl y named president of Mallor>' Capacitor Company, a dinsion of P. R. Mallory & Co. Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana, manu­facluring miHtar>', commercial, industrial, and home electronic equipment 
As chief executive of Mallor>' Capacitor, with plants at Hunts\*ille, .-Mabama, Craw­fordsvnllc, Greencastlc and Indianapolis, Indiana, he is resp>onsiblc for the perform­ance of 1,100 people. 
In July of 1953, Tom Fitzgerald joined Mallor>' as sales manager. His ability was recognized by the organization and he was promoted to general sales manager — the title he kept until his promotion to president 
In his senior year Tom \\*as president of .'^.S.M,E. Awarded a B.S. in mechanical engineering, he worked with Caterpillar Tractor and General Motors' Allison divi­sion in engineering, purchasing,, production engineering, sales and administration. Dis­charged a Lt commander in Januar>', 1946_. after three years ser\'ice with the Nav-y, Tom joined the Fabricast division of Gen­eral ^lotors as sales manager and assistant to the director of sales and engineering. From 1951 to 1953 he was chief administra­ti\'c engineer for South wind diWsion ol Stewart Warner Corporation. 
In addition to running the four Mallory Capacitor plants, and being active in E.I.A. (Electronic Industries Association), Tom is a past president of the Indianapolis Notre Dame Club. He is also a member of the American Management -Association, a part­ner in Fitzgerald Company {\vith three brothers. Jim, '44; Don, '48; and Pat, '53) and an officer and director of Capital City and Supply Company. 
Tom lives in Indianapolis with his wfc and two sons age 7 and 9. His home and church are dear to him and he is a trustee of Immaculate Heart of Mar>' in Indian­apolis. 
1961 
to establish an immediate workable balance, it i ^ suggested that we contribute five or ten dollars oi^ whatever other amount you would like to give. The existence of this Fund will help us realize the desire of our Class to have a source from which wc can carrv out our future activities. Your checks should be bailed to JAMES F. SPELLMAN at the following address, 7 East 42nd St.. New York 17, X.Y. 
Start planning now, men, for the 20th Reunion scheduled for June 9, 10 and II. Let us hear immediately about your plans, so that *vc can arrange a gala reception for all. 
Sure an* SEAX MacCflULEY is gcttin* in \oice as the toastmaster of the annual St. Patrick's Day banquet of the South Bend Chapter of the Ancient Order of Hibernians. John is in training for regal­ing classmates with **Gah*'3y Bay" at the t%venty­year reunion, and Foundation colleague Ah PER­RINE is commuting between South Bend and^ .X.Y. as JI.M SPELLMAX's contact with John,*­JIM HAXXIGAN, BILL HOSIXSKI, etc. 
1942 
William M. Hickey 
3333 West 47lh Place 
Chicago 32, Illinois 

Don't have roudi news tliis time. Have ^^'ord from ED HACKETT, who now lives at 2448 East( Hammond Lake Drive, Pontiac, Micliigan. He just moved into his new tri-levcl home to take care of tlie arri\'al of number eight which now puts the status at 5 boys and 3 ^rls. £d is in the furniture business, the Pleasure & Leisure Shops. He recent­ly was honored with the Furniture AVorld .Award of Merit and the plaque reads *'In Recognition of Distinguished Service to the Furniture Industry. Ed\rard F. Hackett, 1960." MIKE C-VRR and DOX MARTIX arc frequent visitors. Don Martin with his 10 children and Ed with his 8 must make enough noise to really create a headadic. 
LARRY KELLEY has moved to the Madre Mia Ranch, Route 1, Box 189, Hockley, Texas. The ranch is complete with cattle, cliickcns, swimming pool, etc, that are necessary for this existence. 
R. E.MAfETT WRIGHT is now associated in the motion picture business with Wilding. His newf^ address is 1136 Three Mile Road, Grossc Point, Michigan. 
Just found a letter from BOB M0LL.\XEY. He relates that some how or other he has not seen a classmate in over 10 years. He is tem­porarily liwng at GG Dunster Rd., X^ecdliam Hgts., 94, Mass., with his wife and 4 children. Ever since getting out ol the Xavy as a dive bombing pilot in 1945 he has been employed by the Grum­man .Aircraft Eng. Corp. and is now in school at the Massachusetts Institute of TecImoloS>', on the Sloan Fellowship program which is a one-year pro­gram for purposes of cxccuti^'e dcvelopnicnt. He hopes to return to BcUport, X.Y. in June. 
From the Alumni Oflice: DR. JOHX R. CORRIGAX has made another leap as a research chemist for Mead Johnson.|rv Tliis time he's become director of organic chemical *­development. A grad school classmate, he got Iits 
B.S. at Portland and master's and doctor's at X.D. 
EUGEXE F. HUXT has been promoted to cre­ative supervisor at Kctchum, MacLeod & Grove, advertising and public relations ageno' in Pitts­burg, Pa. He coordinates art, copy and production in Pittsburgh headquarters and the ^^ashinston and Houston olltces. He resides with wife Virginia and eight cliildren in AVexford, Pa. 
Chicago Tribune writer TOM POWERS scored a double triumph recently. He w-on the Beck award for excellence in reporting, and Mrs. Po^vers presented him with a fifth daughter, Michelle. 
CH.\RLES A. SHIRK has been appointed man­ager of the researcli division of the .Austin Com­pany, Cleveland-based engineering and construc­tion firm. He's been with Austin for 13 years, iJJ designed a $25 million plant in the Chicago area and formerly ser\'ed as assistant engineer in the Chicago district. 
1943 
Jack Wiggins 5125 Bnggs Avenue La Cresccnta, Calif. 

MARK PFALLER, registered architect, is scc­rciarv-ircasurcr of Mark F. Pfallcr Associates, Elm Grove, Wise. CHARLIE QUINLAN is district manager for Roux Hair Products, New York City. Pittsburgh manufacturers rep JACK EDWARDS 
Avrites that he is married, has 4 children and 
Expects to make the 20lh reunion in '63, BOB LeMENSE is associated with a Milwaukee law firm. He was asking about JOHN K. LE^\HY. GENE HILKERT has been made New England District Manager of Koppers, Inc., chemical sales. DR. BRL\N McL-AUGHLIN practices Opihamol­ogy in Milwaukee. Also from the Badger State, news that DON KOTZ continues selling for Kocour Co.. manufacturers of buffing compounds. DR. LOU SP.\GNUOLO practices osteopathy in De­troit. MIKE CO.MERFORD represents the State of PennsyK-ania's Dept. of Commerce in its ef­forts lo attract industrial development. BILL McGOW.AN is a Research Engineer at Langlry Field, Va., N/\SA facility. DON POTTER is gen­eral manager of the Stewart Warner Electronics Dix-ision in Chicago. DR. DICK MURR^VY prac­tices plastic snrgcrj- in Yoiingstoun, Oliio. JIM 
•DOWS'EY is a partner in a Palm Beach law firm. ART HIEGEL is a project engineer at Pratt &. Whitney's Florida plant. a\RO L KLOTZ is study­ing for his masters in Engineering at U.C.L.A. while laboring as flight test data supervisor at North American Aviation. JOHN POWERS drops a note from his --\ccount Supervisor's office at J. Walter Tliompson. BILL SHERER is a partner in an architectural firm. 
JOHN SCHINDLER is a law partner in Mish­au^ka. BOB KASBERG beads the Planning Studies Dept of Eli Lilly Co., Indianapolis pharmaceuticals manufacturer. GEORGE BL^VCKMORE is a big insurance man in Pittsburgh. ED McNAM.\Rr\ heads a real estate development concern in In­dianapolis. Candle salesman BILL MIDDENDORF continues with Wasliington, D.C., as the base of operations. DICK McCORMICK represents Rtker Labs, pharmaceuticals house. BOB CORRIG.AN is 
Qhn associate prof on the faculty of the Tower School, John Carroll. Cleveland, O. Gar\-, Ind., Chr>'sler dealer JOHN BOSx\K announced the ar­riv'al of the second child last Julv. Petroleum ex­ploration is the field of A. J. KOCHENDORFER, seismic parly cjiief for Seismograph Service Corp., Tulsa. BOB DEGENHART works for Union Car­bon & Carbide in Marietta, Ohio. Another UCC employee, JOE CALLJ\H/\ N returned from Dja­karta, Indonesia, for a training course in Nia­gara Falls during the Christmas holidays, then re­turned to Indonesia. Cake and icc cream is the business of JOE GOEKEN, president of the Alton. 111., Noll Baking & Ice Cream Co. KEN KEMPF is an instructor in the Electrical Engineering Dept. at Noire Dame. GENE FEHLIG owns Fehlig Products Co., St. Louis and Is a board member of Fchlig Bros. Box & Lumber. 
^^ Here comes another Union Carbide man, DICK 
a)LINDROTH, a department head of UCC Chemi­cals, Charleston, W. Va. BROTHER MARIUS WITTNER, CS.C , teaches science at .Akron's Archbp. Hoban U.S. MIKE GODFREY is a St. Louis latv- partner. BOB KUIPERS Is Los Angeles district manager for Butterick Co. LOU RYMKUS, head coach of the A.F.L. Houston Oilers has taken the league cliampionship, and was named .A.P.L. Coacl) of the Year by UPI. Lou whacked his old boss, Coacli Sid Gilman, in the championship game. BOB O'REILLY is v-p of the Fort Wayne office supply business bearing^ his name- Union Carbide seems lo have employed tlie class of '43! May we now introduce FRANK SHORTSLEEVE, director of research at Niagara Falls? JOHN WUERTZ heads a Chicago employment agenc>'. DICK POHL is a partner in a general contracting firm. Eastman Kodak claims BOB BLACKMUN as a develop­ment engineer. DICK KELLY, a member of the 
^Young President's Organization, heads Bituminous Materials Co., Tcrre Haute, Ind. BOB GILLETTE is a sales engineer in tlic Netfark area for G.E. BILL O'BRIEN is regional sales manager for 
COACH JOE KUHARICH (left), apparently seconded by Knute Rockne, congratulates student Carl Yastrzemski, picked by the Boston Red Sox baseball team to replace Ted Williams while alternating school and basebalL 
WC.\X-T\'. Burlington, Vt. STAN PYRFFZ is 
. office manager of General Advcrtbing's Indian­apolis branch. BUD DUDLEY, had a tough break from the weather as he promoted the Liberty Bowl football game last December in Philly. Ri\Y FLYNN heads CuUigan Water Conditioning of Greater Detroit. Ray did not comment on whether water conditioning business in Detroit had been hard or soft. BILL KEENAN has specialized in administrative law representing railroad transporta­tion interests before the I.C.C. Bill is now assistant general counsel for Railway Express Agenc\", Inc. GEORGE THO.MPSON, having been recalled into ihc Air Force in 1950, has decided to stick with it. He is SCO in charge of the Base Legal Office, Stead AFB, Ncvcda. Realtor-insurance man TOM WELCH writes from Indianapolis that he is the father of 6 girls and 3 boys. ALVJOR JACK RE­GAN, after 314 years in Rio, is now working on his masters in Bus. Ad. at U. of North Caroh'na. ALL^VN CLARK heads the Public Relations for Sclicring Corp., Ncif Jersey pharmaceutical manu­facturer. GEORGE CONX'^' heads the Convy Shoe Supply Co., St. Louis. TO.M SWEENEY, assistant tcdmical director of Ransburg Electro-Coaling Corp., Indianapolis, has made a fine suggestion for the 1963 Reunion: keep after three classmates to attend with you. In fact, if enough of this is done in the New York area FRiVNK CON­FORTI has a transportation scheme in mind to fly the bunch to South Bend. 
You can be sure it's CHARLES OEIBEL in Weslinghousc's Pittsburgh metallurgical engineering department. Big TONY GIROL/\MI is Chicago's 28th Ward alderman and Democratic Ward com­mitteeman. GEORGE COPPIN is sector chief flight engineer for Pan American \\'orld Airways, Seattle. George was flight engineer on the first commercial flight to the Antarctic in October^ 1957. Our Class Treasurer, JI.M MADIG*\N, heads his own CPA firm in Little Rock. BLAIR Mc-GOWAN is general manager of Electric Wholesale Supply Co., Jackson, ^Ii'ch. He must also be an at-homc general manager, too, what with nine children. FATHER DICK O'BRIEN Is director of Corpus Christ! H.S. and chaplain at St. Mary's Hospital, Galesburg, 111. LEO RITTER is su­perintendent of communications for the New York Central S>*stem. 
It is with deep sadness that we report the death of JOE NORRIS last October. Please re­member him in your prayers. We have arranged to have a Mass said for the repose of his soul; the Mass uill be said by FATHER VIC CULLEN, S.J., missionary in the Philippines at Immaculate Conception Church, Impasugnong, Buktdnon. 
From the Alumni Office: Early this year the top industrial design firm of Raymond Loewy Associates became Raymond Loeu'y and William Snaith, Inc., and EUGENE MCCARTH Y became director of budgets and as­sistant vice-president of the Park Ax-enue Company. Geae has been on the staff since his discharge from the Air Force in 1946, has specialized in designing for department store branches of Lord & Taylor's, Gimbels, Peck & Peck, etc. He lives at 93 Aster Place, New Hyde Park, L. I. 
ROBERT £. MORRILL of New Britain, Conn., was named a vice-president of Landers, Frary &. Clark in January, He has been soles manager of national accounts since May of last year and will continue to be responsible for sales, merchandising and planning. Bob joined the company in 1946 after service as a lieutenant in the Marine Corps and has been In i.'arious managerial posts. He and his wiie, the former Charlotte Hancy, have three children and make their home at 166 Pendleton Road, New Britain. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ MaTcb-April, 1961 41 
1944 
George Bariscillo, Jr. 416 Burlington Ave. Bradley Beach, N, J. 
Our Midwest \icc president, "BLACK JOHN" 

XfURPHY, has filed his cvcr-wdcome report on 
activ'ities in his geograpliical area, and from his 
various memos, etc., we glean the following: 
On a recent trip to Chicago, he met TOM O'CONNOR, who is active in the J. ^^•altc^ Thompson Agency, and "RED JOHN" .MURPHY 
— both of whom owe this column a letter. 
Vihilc In Detroit recently, he called BOB FAUGHT, who is with the .A & P people and has four bo>-s now. He further reports tliat CYRIL DESMET is the father of four and presently teaching chemistry and math in a Detroit suburban senior high school. He also attempted to reach CLEM CONSTANTINE in Detroit, but ^^•as met v-ith a recorded message staling: "This number is no longer working." On his way home, "BLACK JOHN" stopped at Danrillc, Illinois, and 'phoned ERNIE "E BRACK" SEDLAUYR. You guessed it — Ernie has four, too! 
During football season, "MURPH" met "RED JOHN", JBf KANE and BILL SHEA at the Northwestern fiasco. The Kanes had just had their ninth, a boy named John, ROCKY SULLIVAN turned up at the Purdue rout and then pro­ceeded with his wife to Chicago to be Johnny Kane's godparents. 
And a couple of final notes from "BLACK JOHN" — his missing roommate, JIM LLOYD, lias been found In ^Vest Bend, Wisconsin, recent­ly promoted by West Bend Aluminum . . . PAUL MARIETTA is heading the Tcrrc Haute N.D. Club and doing a bang-up job. 
The color film of our Fifteenth Reunion is now in. circulation. You may be added to the list of subscribers (no charge) by dropping a request to JOHN MURPHY at 2600 Crawioid Street, Terre Haute, Indiana. 
A report from Class Treasurer, TOM ROLFS, (Amity Leather Products Company, West Bend, 'Wisconsin) brings us up to date on his far-flung Travels. A customer of the company had Tom and Jiis wife as guests during the Winter 01>-mpics last year, and this was followed by a three week business sojourn to the Orient. Tom bemoans the fact that many of his domestic business trips do not allow him to renew old N.D. friendships be­cause of time, but last season a weekend at N.D. for the Xotre Dame-Iowa debacle brought re­unions with \1NCE DUNa\N and BILL LAW­I^ESS. Tom albo spent a tew days pheasant hunt­ing in South Dakota and recently called on JIM BURKE's father in Sioux Falls. Jim's father told Tom that Jim is married, with several cliildren, and presently First Secretary of the American Consulate in Beirut, Lehznon. 
At Christmas time we received the annual edi­tion of LEARY TIMES, published by WARREN lEARY, JR., in Rice Lake, ^Msconsin. It was an c\*cntful year for the Learys, who managed a month's fabulous x-acation in Europe tins past fall after a busy time stumping for Kennedy in W'is­consin. Wife, Pat, managed to comer the new President when he vfas in Rice Lake during the Wisconsin primary* long enough to have him auto­^ra^h a copy of his ''Profiles in Courage". 
May we take this opportunity to thank all of you who were kind enough to send us Christmas Greetings. The cards came literally from all over the world, even as far au*ay as Mexico City, with DICK LEON checking in with his annual report. He is now head of the sales department for Seepso, Mexico's largest plastic company. 
JOHN LYNCH's sur\-ey is still receiving rave notices. Latest is from HENRY P. STREICHER, vrho is {^>crating a bituminous cement and mix­ttiFcs ccxQpany in Toledo, Ohio. From Henr>' we learned diat he recently had lunch with TOM HALUGAN and spouse in Flint, Michigan, ^vhere Tom heads the Michigan Bmvling Proprietors Association, and is the N.D. Foundation man in the area. Hank also reports that BEN MAMMINA tdd his business in Benton Harbor in recent months and has re-located in Florida. 
More applause for L>*nch*s compilation — this time from JOE GALL (Youngstown, Ohio). Only thing that disturbed him about the sur\ey was try­ing to identify the two members of our class who were reported in the §50,000.00 plus class. He has it narrowed down to GENE SLEVIN, BILL WALDRON and BOB THUADf, his interest in the subject stemming from a memento he carried home with him from our '59 reunion — a "legally convenient slipped disc," which he states is ready for reacti\'alion as soon as he confirms his theory*. 
GALL is searching for ED DO^VLING. (Our records indicate he ***as last billeted at 28 N. 12th Street, New Hyde Park, Ne^v York.) He also reports seeing BILL MULLIG.AN occasionally — Bill is a food broker working out of Cleveland. And Gal! further advises that TOM KERRIG.AN performed admirably as Xotre Dame Club presi­dent in Youngstown. Joe prombes to be at our reunion again in '64, proWded Waldron again consents to be his bodyguard against the "Illinois Outlaws" — Slewn and Thumm. 
Your scribe attended the Navy game in Phila­delphia last fall. Caught a fleeting glance of BILL O'CONNOR. Am certain there were many more '44ers in the crowd, but most were bundled and huddled under umbrellas during the miserable weather. 
My wiic and I had a pleasant evening with ED DRINKARD when be was in town recently, representing his company (American Machine and Foundr>0 at an international convention of wire and cable people. The Drinkards were expecting their seventh at the time. 
JOHNNY JOHNSON reports moring from Dela­ware, Ohio, to the outskirts of Columbus. John's territory includes Ohio and West Vir^ia, ^vherc he is sales representative for W. H. Hutchinson & Son, Inc. of Chicago (bottle caps). His oldest son is now a freshman at Bishop Wattcrson High School in Columbus. John and his wife recently attended the consecration of Father Afendcz at Notre Dame. 
And one final bulletin from your Secretary as we for%\"ard this column to the Editor for publi­cation .. . on Januar>* 24, 1961, the Barisdllos became three, as Susan presented me with our first child, Cj-nthia Marie — a liring doll, if I may say so myself. 
From tlie Alumni OHicc: Law>er CREIGHTON MILLER of Cleveland has a new long-term contract as attorne>* for the National Football League Players Assn. You can reach JAMES B. TREACEY at Brcs­lauer Strasse 61, Hcidclberg-Kirchbeim, Germany. After 10 years with Pan American, one of them in Africa, Jim joined the Eclipse-Pioneer division of Bendix AWation in Tetcrboro, N.J., where he was manager of B-58 systems. In January-, 1960, he was sent to Germany to build and manage new-plants for Teldix (a combination of Telefunken and Bendix). Jim and his wife Francesca now liave four strapping sons. 
CLEVELAND—Undaunted by their labors as coKJiainnan couples for the Gleveland Qub^s annual Holiday Dance arc (from left) John P. Coyne, Mary Coyne, Susan Miller, and Richard H. Miller. 
We've heard that former classmate GEORGE A^^ REESE, JR., is still in Jackson, Mich., as assist-*' ant sales manager for Marine and Jobber sales with Sparton Corp., outboard manufacturers. George lias represented Capitol Records and vari­ous TV manufacturers. 
1945 
Frank AL Linchan 29 Burr Drive Dalton, Massachusetts 

With the change of administration, there was a void in the mail being sent by our fellow *43ers. However, it is now coming and we hope it con­tinues and increases in volume. 
From the schools of higher learning, we hear from FATHER JOHN J. CONNELLY, Catholic chaplain at Rutgers University. Father Jack also is an assistant at St. Peter's Parish, New Bruns­wick, New Jersey, teaches at St. Peter*s High School there, plus being chaplain to Council No. 257 Knights of Columbus. He sa>-s he gets the **fecl" again of college life but nothing like 
N.D. From FATHER ED HENNESSEY, CS.C , who is taking graduate work at St. John's U., Brooklyn, and is ser\'ing a$ chaplain at the Holy Cross High Scliool, Flushing (conducted by G.S.C. Brothers), we licar that; FATHER WILLIAM DONAHUE, CS.C , is new \ice-president of King's College in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Congratula-^ lions; and FATHER MIKE MURPHY, CS.C , is pursuing further studies at Columbia U. From high above Cayuga's waters we heard from PAT FILLEY. He is scr\"ing as assistant athletic director for the Big Red, not actively engaged in coach­ing but still sounding like one w*ith the rough season Cornell had. He still does scouting for the football squad and crosses the paths and charts of fellow .\.D.crs. He had ANGELO BERTELLI as a house guest for Princeton-Cornell iveekcnd. With the change in coaches at Ithaca, we hope next Season will be better for you, Pat. 
From BOB THO\US. LCDR, USN, we hear: "I regret I have been unable to attend a single reunion since I graduated with Oct. '45 R.O. Class. I am presently Commanding OfHcer of the 
U.S.S. Rcmora. (5S 487). She is a high speed guppy submarine that claims San Diego as home^} port, and soon will join the Seventh Fleet in the Far East. As always submarining is an ex­citing business and I am elated to be a part of it. If any of the class happen to be in Southern California, I would be happy to escort them tlirough ihc boat," Nanc>-, his wife, and their two daughters make their home in Coronado. Bob would like to hear from the **old" R.O. gang. His address: USS Remoni (SS-487}, Fleet Post Office, San Francisco. 
D.AVE CHAMPION writes from Cleveland, Ohio: "^fissed our reunion due to my prime job of feeding my family, »vhicli necessitated attend­ing a convention at tliat time. Tlie children num­ber 5 now, with the girls enjoying a 3 to 2 edge." Dave was able to make the Iowa game and saw some of the old gang, JOHN CARON, his wife Ann; Professor PAUL FENLON; Bill & Har­riet Ke>'es, and Joe and Bca Mulligan. i^i) 
From the irorld's greatest ncu-spaper (Chicago Tribune) we hear from its Sports Editor, DAVE CONDON: ''Pleading a busy schedule is no ex­cuse for neglecting to send an occasional note to the class secretary, so I sat down today and here goes — I made two N.D. games this year, Cali­fornia and Iowa. I had reservations for the Miami game, too, but checked out at the last minute to cover Purdue at Minnesota. My roving around the country puts me in touch with lots of N.D. men, altho not too many from my Class. But I seem to be continually in the company of MOOSE KRAU5E and CHARLEY CALLAHAN. 
"JOHN DRENDEL of Reno, a top attorney in Nevada, checks into Chicago frequently. I visited John out there and enjoyed an evening with his family (four kids). Missed connections with MIKE MINES in Las Vagas, Nev., but talked to him on the telephone the other day — TOM PO^VERS^J) former editor of the Scholastic, decided to tele­phone Mike at the expense of our neu'spaper. 
"All of us were saddened by ihe death of JACK 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 
• VAIXISI. As soon as I got word I telephoned JERRY GROOM in Denver. T)ic three of its had so many good times together. Jcrr>* now has two kids, and the Condons arc godparents of Cynthia. The boy is named DaWd, after one of Groom's newspaper friends. The Grooms are godparents of our Colleen, youngest of six. 
"I'm on the air once a week with JACK QUIX­LAN, who brought new glor>" to Notre Dame men in the communications business when he did the AVorld Series. TERRY BRENX/\N also broad­casts for our W'GS and does a magnificent job. 
"PHIL FACCENDA and PAUL FULLMER and all the gang did the greatest work in years for the Rocknc Reunion at the Illinois Athletic Club. Tlie Four Horsemen were there, and HUGH DEVORE, HUNK AXDERSOX, FRANK LEAHV, TERRY BREXNAN, MOOSE KRAUSE, JOE KUHARICH, ED NUESZKOWSKI, TONY MAZ2IOTTI, MOTTS TOXELLI, BILL STEIXKEMPER, and 
^s o many others, including MAX BURXELL. BILL WIGHTKIN' had to miss became it was his night to teach a weekly religion class in his parish in BflJiv'ood. I can't give you a complete rundown because I had to duck out after the cocktail party to be toastmaster at Mayor Daley's party for Chicago High school coaches. A pleasant job there was introducing TOM CAREY, former quarterback, tvliosc Mount CamicI team won llie Chicago city championship a few days later by defeating Taft, the City league champions. 
"And speaking of parties — University of Michi­gan's annual Chicago football party is master­minded by JOHX DEXXISTOX*, a prominent at­torney who was a buddy of so many in Frank O'Mallcy's English classes, Dcnniston took his law-work at Midiigan. (And I saw FRi\XK O'MAL­LEY and JOHXXY JORD.\N and so many others on the Iowa week end). 
"Spoke recently in Rockford and met up with 

• JI.M DUXX. Had a meeting uiili ZIGGY C2/\­ROBSKI, who now works out of Milwaukee. I've had lots of speech dates lately, and did one in Milwaukee for MOON MULLIXS (the 1930 full­back now is athletic director at Marquette), and for BILL FOX — Indiana's Mr. X'otre Dame — in Indianapolis. 
"OLEX PARKS has quit the Jack Kramer tennis troupe and is back in Chicago with Wilson and Company. BILL FAY does publicity for Chica­go's new convention hall, McCormick Place. GEORGE COXXOR had to miss the Rocknc Re­union, but } run Into him often at the Lake Shore Club. Tltc Sheraton Corporation has promoted TOM McDOXALD to a post in Washington, and the Sheraton Towers in Chicago will miss him. DOX MURPHY, originally from Maywood, is 
-^one of Chicago's most busy and successful publicity 
^9men. Don was in our class. He has tough com­petition in the publicity field, however, from Fav. JIM KEARXS, and JOE PETRIT2. And that's all for this time." 
Althougli belated, our deepest sympatiiv to the family of FR.\XK M. CUSICK, who was killed on his 5lst mission in 1945. Alay he rest in peace. From 9804 Hillridgc Drive, Kensington, Mar%-­land, wc hear from VIXCE CUSHIXG: "Last May I started a small research and development endeavor here in the Washington area. Current­ly the size of the activity is such that it really amounts to being somewhere between consulting and actual project actinty. And I suppose I'm going through the usual experience in that the start up was a much more drawn out process than I had expected (or naively hoped for) but during the past month a better kind of luck caught up ; with mc and wc now seem to be over the hump. @Tlic firm is Engineering-Physics Company, 5515 I Randolph Road, Rockville, Mar>*land. On the 
family side I married Marie Donnelly in Evanston, Illinois, in 1945. Since then, much has happened: Joan, 14; Vincent, Jr., 12,- Xancj", II; David, S.­Brian, 7; Michael. 2^ ; and Daniel, 1. Up until about IS months ago wc had lived entirely in the Chicago area, then in the summer of '59, we moved to Huntington, L.I., while I attempted a turn with the aircraft Industry-. I won't burden you witli the details of that period, but the up­shot is that it looked like we'd oil be happier if I struck out on my own. So, the family finally caught up with me here in Washington area about three months ago." To EPCO — Best wishes and success. 
Our planned reunion after the Xa\">- game 

i fizzclcd. Wc learned the hard way, I guess, and 
\ if we try again sometime, wc can look back on 
f\the lessons wc learned. Although it was not the best game for moving .' around and seeing friends, wc did spot JOHX BRESXAHAN, Lawrence, Massachusetts, talking 
BUSY LIFE of Ray T. Miller, Jr., '51, in 
business and politics fails to curtail family-
development in Cleveland. 

to HUGH DEVORE. In speaking to John later, wc found out he is the father of 10, a Democrat and member of the State Legislature of the Com­monwealth of Massachusetts. He also ser\es as a "talent scout" for the Atliletic Department. The next we hear he probably will be running for Congress. Best, Big John. Sat with JIM CLYXES, Ithaca, for the second half of the game — tell­ing us all about his trip to Rome and the Olym­pics. Met JIM DONXELLY, class treasurer, at post game cocktail party. I guess we will be hear­ing from him regarding class dues soon. Played golf Sunday after the game with Hx\RRY WAL­TERS and two Annapolis grads. There's still only one Harrx-- Harr>- is practicing law in the Bronx with offices at 369 East 149th Street. 
To bring you up to date on your class officers, here are two more biographies: .\RT EDWARDS 
—
 Vice President-East: Art left the class of '45 hurriedly in 1944 for the Xaw and was assigned to an LCT group and spent considerable time in the Orient. He was discharged in 1946 as a second class electronic technician. Returned to N'.D. and graduated in '47 and spent a year at Carnegie Tech studying metallurgy*. He then joined Union Carbide and is with one of their smaller divisions 

—
 Haynes Stellitc Company. Art Is in the ad­vertising department and does most of the work for their corrosion-resistant alloys, trade name of Hastelloy aIIo>-s. His oflice is at 270 Park .-\vcnue. New York City, Art is still a bachelor living at 127 Mt. Hebron Road, Upper Montclair, Xew Jersey. 


Tlie following is an autobiography of JIM DOXXELLY» Class Treasurer: '-The following will not be exciting reading material; in fact it will be rather pale compared to the recent spotlight column on JIM CLYXES in the .Mumnus. Prac­tically my entire business career has been with the Sinclair Refining Company in their accounting department. Previously, for less than a year, I had been with American Airlines. Except for two years in '52 and '53 at Sinclair's Houston, Texas refinery, I have been located in their New York City headquarters. I am presently Chief-Cost .Ac­countant. I married Mar>- Lou Xfc\rec on May 5, 1956. Wc do not have any future X^otre Darners in the family but wc do have three lovely girls 
— Susan Marie, 3; Cynthia Marie, 2; and Mary Beth, 8 months. We make our home In Old Beth-page, Long Island. I am a poor golfer, a fair gardener, but a good mixer' at parties. Because of long hours spent at the office and commuting, I have had practically no time to devote to civic affairs — the most noteworthy is perhaps my being a teacher in Confraternity of Christian Doctrine classes. I have been a member of the X.D. Club at Houston and now, although not active, a mem­ber of X.D. Club of Xew York. I have from time to time participated both as a director and an actor in local amateur theater presentations. Curtain coming down on Life of JIM DOXXEL­LY". 
From the Alumni Office: Much news of former secretarv- AL LESMEZ, 
some old, some new. For those who haven't heard, 
Al has founded A. Vincent Publications, Int:., 
specializing In advertuing, brochures, etc., and 
became editor of Engineering Graphics, a brand 
new trade magazine. This is In addition to his 
full-time Work at Spcrry Gyroscope and such hob­
bles as his successful campaigning for BILL FAL­
LOX, '37, for the Alumni Board and his work 
for MEDICO. A recent note expressed Al's thanks 
to the Class: "I was sitting peacefully in my 
home the other day, when our new Class Treasurer, 
JIM DOXXELLY, came to \-isit, bringing with 
him a great big SURPRISE from you. What 
lovely gifts, beautifully wxapped In gold paper and 
blue ribbon (our "national" colors). The gift-
bearing treasurer enthusiastically presented the 
gifts in the name of the Class with a beautiful 
culog\- that I shall always recall, thanking me in 
the name of eacli of you who contributed to mak­
ing this a memorable day for me. The X'otre Dame 
chair (perfect size) will give mc many hours of 
meditation and rest; the large Xotrc Dame plaque 
engraved with a Class *"thank you'* will always 
be close to my heart. .\ very sincere thank you 
to each of you of the Class who were so thought­
ful as to remember a used-to-be Secretary." Flash! 
Your cx-Secretary- **as also the happy and lucky 
recipient of a brand new Ford Falcon, raffled by 
MEDICO. .-M has been active with the organiza­
tion in various capacities of publicity', brochure 
writing, and printing, as well as ha%*ing worked 
closely with the late Dr. TOM DOOLEY in con­
nection with John Kim, a Xotrc Dame student 
who joined MEDICO'S Laos team. Members of 
MEDICO and workers for MEDICO were de­
lighted that "one of the team" won this car . . . 
and so was your ex-Secretary. 
ED^VARD K. RAXDLAN of 16 Briarbrook Trail, Des Peres. Afo., is now contract sales manager of Emerson Electric, St. Louis. Formerly manager of the air conditioning and electric heat division, Ed will supervise electric heat and rootn air condi­tioner sales. 
DR. A. BROCK LYXCH, after Yale medical school, internship at Western, Reserve, training in pathology- and surgery at the X*cu* England ifedi­cal Center, Tufts Medical School, the Sloan-Kettering Institute's Memorial Center for Cancer, etc., and .Air Force surgery In the Korean War, has settled as a surgeon in his native Winchester, Mass. 
DOX aSLE. B.X.S. '45, B,S.C, '47, has added 
to the development of the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes on the Xotrc Dame campus. Several years ago, Don made a contribution toward the greatly appreciated black-topping of the space in front of the Grotto, and a recent contribution has enabled F.ATHER PHILIP SCHAERF, C.S.C., di­rector of the Confraternity, to install plaques describing the perpetual Indulgences attached to the Grotto and visits to it. 
1946 
Jack Tenge, Jr. 770 California St. San Francisco, Calif. 

REUNION RIME So your rentes in arrears and the wife is in tears; You've awaited reunions the past 15 years. Let the landlady dun; tell the wife, **Sparc me, hon, June 9-10-11 in Sweet Sixty-One!" 
From the Alumni Office: 
X'ext to last call for the 15th annivcrsar>' and 
here's another classmate you might hope to see. 
THOMAS J. SEEDORFF has becti appointed manager of public relations services of the Public Relations Society of America, a national organiza­tion of over 4,000 members of the public relations 
profession. 
Tom was formerly vice-president in charge of public and professional relations of Taylor, Harluns and Lea, Inc., Philadelphia medical marketing re­search firm, \vhcre he played a major role in the development and operation of the Xational Disease and Therapeutic Index. Prior to that, he was as­sociated with Rcuel Estill and Company, Inc., public relations and fund raising- counsel, m X'ett* York. 
A graduate of Columbia University {I9IS), Tom was originally a member of the '46 Class and 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 43 
served in the V. S. Xaval Rescnc during World War II. He ts a resident of 81 Oakvicw Terrace, Short Hills, N. J. 
1947 
Jack Miles 3218 Bendcy Lane South Bend; Indiana 
ONLY A YEAR OR SO TO GO 

If anyone doubts the fl^ng potential of Father 
Time, let him regard the imminence only 15 
months hence of our 15-ycar reunion, Malcc sure 
June 8-10 is an open weekend on your 'fi2 calendar. 
The results of the questionnaire will be mailed 
to you before most of you pay your income tax; 
they are interesting, provocative, and not neces­
sarily binding, but most Important is their indi­
cation more of our classmates will attend the '62­
do than combined to attend the previous romps. 
BUT ONE MORE IS .MISSING 

Tlie 15th of our classmates died Dec. 7: RAY O'COXNELL, only 37 and the father of four-He was treasurer of our graduating class, you will recall, and had been associated with his fatlicr in a Chicago automobile agency, 
FATHER JOHN PATRICK DOL.VX, C.S.C., sang a Requiem High Mass for tlie repose of Ray's soul in Dillon Hall Dec. 14, and in your behalf I promised Mary O'Connell, Ray's i«doiv, our prayers for his happiness in the next life and for the solace of his loved ones in this one. 
In case you don't think of and pray for them as often as you should, here are tlie others who have gone before us: PETER CASTELLI, \\TL­
LLAM DEL.ANEY, ^MLLIAM DOUGHERTY, HERBERT FRIEND, NOEL GOTTES.MAN, CLARE LESER, GEORGE SCHOTT, RUSSELL UNDER^VOOD, LEONARD \VALL. REV. MR. EDWARD %VILLIAMS, ^\^LLIAM PFISTER, JOHN FORSTER, FRANK PETERS, and JOHN DUCATO. Pray for them, and send Treasurer JOE SHARP a dollar or two for the Mass Fund. 
Finally, your prayers are asked for the father of GEORGE GMITTER, who died in August and also the father of DON McDONALD. 
GLEANINGS . . . 

BROTHER n'AN DOLAN, C.S.C., was in tou-n for the Iowa game ivcekcnd but our paths couldn't quite manage to get togctlier. But he'll be back in town soon in the course of his second state­side sojourn in 14 years. 
FRANK GILHOOLEY, the popular Toledo sports-spieler, returned his questionnaire witli tlic notation he'll be here for the reunion. 
A story in the Benton Harbor, Mich., news­paper recently rcportd that DON McGRATH, arcliilect and member of the St. Joseph city planning commission, toured the Indiana Dunes area as member of a regional planning group Seeking to resolve mutual problems of the Lake Micliigan-bordcring states. 
BROTHER KERIC DEVER, C.S.C., has been transferred from Notre Dame High Scliool in Biloxi, Miss., to Archbisliop CurJc>- High School in Miami. 
ARNOLD CLEVELAND has moved clear across country from Kansas City, Mo., to Kansas City, Kans. 
FATHER WALTER BOZEK has trekked from Bridgeport to Newtown within Connecticut's boundaries for assignment to St. Rose parish. 
Thanks to BILL PECK, S.AM ADELO, BOB MULGAHY, PAUL LIBA5SI, and PHIL DE­LINCKE for Christmas cards. 
JACK QVIShAS, our unanimously-praised All-Star game and \Vorld Series play-by-pla^-boy, em­cecd the Notre Dame football banquet and did a fine job; in answer to those persistent rumors .. . no, he will not manage, coach, nor buy tne Chicago Cubs! 
44 Notre Dame Ahwinus, March-April^ 
JAMES A. MURTAGH, '48 For Die Cast Veep, a "Die" Badly Cast 
When the Alumni Office had last No­vember's mail to James Murtagh in Toledo returned wth the note "deceased'* and a postal tracer failed to prove otherwise, the .ALUMNUS published a three-line obituary reporting Jim dead "according to word re­ceived." 
The report on Jim, administrative vice-president of Schultz Die Cast Co., was "gready exaggerated." In fact—to pull a morbid pun on Jim's firm—^for him to "die" would be poor "casting." Actually he had changed his residence and lef no forwarding address. 
Aside from chagrin at getting only a three-line notice, Jim has even been amused by letters, cards and telephone calls of sympathy to his brother William O. Mur­tagh, '49. Bill reports that "after I accept the condolence calls, Jim gets on the wire and reassures the caller he's not down yet." 
By way of retraction we should report that Jim runs the Schultz operation with brother Bill, is on the Schultz board and also a director of Gerity Realty Co. and Rustic Park, Inc., Toledo. Before Joining Schultz he was vice-president and general manager of Gerity-Michigan Corp. He in­vented, developed and patented a new type of metal-finishing machine that promises to revolutionize the metal finishing and glass polishing industry'. 
Active in local alumni activities, Jim was president of the Toledo N.D. Club for two terms. The correct address for the Murtagh family (including \vife Janet, daughter Judy, and son Jim, Jr.) is 2308 Pemberton Drive, Toledo. 
Bill reports his brother working hard to merit an obituary of "at least five lines, wc hope many years from now." 
1961 
And CHICK MAGGIOLI Is the eater grccter at a local spaghetti house; during the football season, Chick enjoyed doing meat commercials on Notre Dame's TV station .. . he sau- to it that all the props went to waist. 
^VE GET LETTERS From SAM ADELO: "Another "Navidad" is here — a time when we reminisce and think of all the amigos scattered about the country- and e\'en the globe. "I have been very busy this year trotting back and forth to South America. In addition to my work for Kendaxis Industries Int'l, I am hold­ing down the presidency of the Ft. Worth Good Neighbor Council and giving lectures and periodic classes at SMU and TCU. 
"Am now preparing for the Intcr-.\mcrican Bar Assn. conference to be held in Bogota in January and February'; I have been asked to do tlie si-J multancous interpreting on a United Nations-t>pe s>'stem to be used at the conference.'* 
From FATHER HAROLD ZINK, C.S.C., at St. Mar^-'s Cathedral in Austin, Texas: "BROTHER ROMARD BARTHEL, C.S.C., a staff member of the Brothers Scliolasticatc for the past nine years and director of the Brothers choir for the past sLx years at St. Edward's University in Austin, has relinquished these Jobs for the vcr>- im­portant post of rector of Aiidre Hall, a new resi­dence hall named after our own famous Brother Andre, C.S.C., the continuation of whose cause for beatification was recently approved by POPE JOH.V XXIIL 
"BROTHER LASALLE AVOELFEL, C^.C., IJOS recently been named head of the association of teachers of economics and is chairman of the Division of Business Administration at St. Ed­ward's. He has received national recognition for^ two graphic studies, one a 50-page booklet en­titled "Guides for Profit Planning," offered for sale by the U.S. Government Printing Ofhce, and the other an article dealing with the fluctuations of religious prejudice in this country from colonial days to the present. 
"Tlie latter, entitled "The Oldest American Prejudice*', appeared in the Sept. 24 issue of American and was quoted in the Sept. 26 issue of Newsweek." 
From JERRY FARRON,.M8: "As I was saying to you .. . on my way to California In '49, 'I'm on my way out there for a short \-islt.* Tliat A%-as a \vifc and sc\*cn diildren ago. I'm married to the former Helj-n Dohcrly, a third generation San Franciscan and am going into my lOih year as a sales engineer for the Pipe DIv. of Johns-— ManvUlc. ^ 
"Still singing soloist with a couple of choral groups in S.F. and doing casuals witli a local band. Hope to get back to the next '48 reunion. Re­gards to RALPH THORSEN ct al." 
From JOHN ^LVHER, who through some over­sight failed to receive the class questionnaire: " I feel slighted. I'm one ot those Notre Dame people who regards his graduation from Notre Dame the greatest achievement in his life. Please send mc a questionnaire." 
Thanks for your Interest, John; wish that some of those who did receive tlie questionnaires ivoufd show interest comparable to yours. 
NEW ADDRESSES . . . are on record in mv not-at-all secret files for WALTER BARBU, DON BLASE, THUR.M.\N^ COSS, BOB FOOS, VERN GUDKESE, JIM € HARRIS, BILL HOLBROCK, JIM HUBARTT. GEORGE IRWIN, BILL JANN, GENE KANE, BOB KEENAN, ILVV KELLIHER, BOB KIN­NEY. BILL KOCH, WARREN KRAMER, STAN KUDLACZ, LEONARD LUT2, LEX McCOY, DON &L\NDICH, BOB MEAGHER. BILL NEL­LIGAN, BOB O'BRIEN, JOHN O'CONNOR, GERRY O'REILLY, GEORGE PARENT, MAR­
VIN  PROSCHE,  BRUCE  SILL, HENRY  
STICKELKfAIER.  and PAT  VniSOS,  
A  FINAL  PLEA  . . .  

.. . to all owners of Evcrsharp or other auto­malic pcndls: GET THE LEAD OUT AND LET US HEAR FROM YOU! 
From the Alumni OfHce: Congratulations to JAMES E. DURBIN. manager^ of the Pioneer Hotel in Tucson, Ariz., for his recent ciric recognition In Tucson. In January Jim was selected as Tucson's I960 "Man of the 
^^car " for his leadership and progress in human 
^^lations as cfiaimian of the Pubh'c Accommoda­tions Industry Committee. Through his committee voluntary recognition of racial equality •was ob­tained by almost the entire public hospitality busi­ness. The awards were based on "distinguished active support of community* projects for aiding those persons less fortunate, and for living in a manner ivhich inspires afTcclion, respect and ad­miration.** Judges said Jim*5 service descn'es special recognition, for it required a high degree of courage and conscientious belief in moral rlght­ness, which was asserted to be opposed to selfish interest or business promotion. The 34-year-oId hotel executive, a member of numerous community organizations, came to Tucson in 1958 from Salt Lake City. 
ROBERT S. O'BRIEN has defected to the Class of '45, \vitli whom lie was graduated in NROTC. Anchors awcigli, Bob. 
O JVAS MOELLER and his wife Rosemarie send greetings from Quito, Ecuador, for 1961. John is president of the N.D. Club of Ecuador, a 5^^'ins­ing organization as can be seen in the Club Sec­tion. 
1948 
John Defant George A, Pflauni, 
Publisher, Inc. 
38 West Fifth Street 
Dayton 2, Ohio 

From the AJumni Office: There's little that can be said here about the Qdcath of DR. TOST DOOLEY in N«v York shortly after returning to the States in a brace. It's been said in newspapers, on radio and TV throughout the world. Perhaps Tom's attitude was best summarized in his letter to FATHER HESBURGH from Hons Kong, his "last u-ill and testament" to Notre Dame, circulated w-idely by Associated Press and printed in this issue for any who missed it. Doolcy is well on his way to be­coming another Notre Dame legend, and the Uni­versity won't forget him. Tom's mother, inci­dentally, will be issuing a picture book about his life this spring and hb brother Malcolm is con­tinuing his crusade. 
The news seems to be uniformly sad this issue. ED AYLWARD wrote in from Kansas City, Mo., to advise that his grandmother, Katherinc Ayl­ward, passed away in K.C. January 21 at the 
^^g c of 94. She had been in this countr>' since 
'"'she was 18, She had ten children, seven of whom arc still living; 22 grandchildren, 60 great grand­children, and two great great grandchildren. She was a native of Ireland as was her liusband, who passed away in 1923. Tlircc of her grandcliildren went to Notre Dame: Ed, a la>»Tcr and baciielor who has yet to contribute to the prodig>* of her progeny; JAMES P. AYLWARD, *41 (Jim also practices law in K.C); and W. ROBERT AYL­WARD, '49 (Bob attended in 1945-46). Ed, Jim and Bob arc cousins. Thanks, Ed, for the note on a "wonderful woman from the Old Sod." She'll be in classmates' prayers. 
Another sad note from GER/VRD HEKKER in New York City, whose mother died on February 10 a few days after a paralyzing stroke. Deep sympathy to Jerry and his wife Corrinc, who had recently presented her with a grandson. U'c hope 
^KMrs. Hekker will also be remembered in Class 
Sprayers. 
To wind up on a little brighter note, JOHN LUJxVCK has been the toast of the front pages since his nomination to the Football Hall of Fame in the company of Lou Little, Bulldog Turner, etc. Arthur Daley, in a New York Times profile entitled "Youthful Immortal," spotlights Johnny's innate skill ("a star wherever he played"), humility and perfectionism. Daley re­counts John's tutorship under ANGELO BER* TELLI and Sid Luckman that led to All-American and AU-Pro honors; John's own story of a "lucky" tackle that supposedly caused FRANK LEAHY and JAKE KLINE to remember his name; the personality and cltarm that led to such success with his Chevrolet agency in Davenport, la., and in his TV sportscasting with Chris Schenkel; the agonies over intercepted passes that cloud his 
Jtr^jnemoncs of a triumph over Doc Blancliard in ^th c 1946 Army game, etc. May we close with a plea? JOHN DEFANT has had plenty of time to recover from his mag­
ROBERT E. FITZPATRICK, '49 
Personal Responsibility Personified 

A 33-ycar-oId Brooklynite who iias spent 12 years helping underprivileged and handi­capped children has been named "The Out­standing Young Man of Brooklyn for 1961" by the borough's Junior Chamber of Com­merce. Bob Fitzpatrick, administrator of St. Vincent's Home for Boys, was honored by civic and business leaders at a banquet on February 9 and praised as an embodiment of personal responsibility by John E. Mc-Keen, chairman and president of Chas. Pfizer & Co., Inc., principal speaker. 
.•\s chief executive officer at St. Vincent's since 1951, Bob has assisted Msgr. William 
M. Casey in the care and guidance of some 250 boys—140 of them residents and more than 100 alumni who have embarked on careers. Msgr. Casey calls Bob "a gentleman whose loyalty, knowledge and dedication has ser\'ed me and the boys in my charge un­selfishly." 
At St. Vincent's Bob has inaugurated psychiatric programs, a vocational guidance program and an after-care department de­signed to help the boys get started on useful careers; a program in remedial reading for retarded children in participation with the City of New York; recreational and athletic activities including a summer camp program in operation since 1954, participation in the Pop Warner Football League (rewarded last year by cit>--wide titles in the Junior and Pecwce divisions), and an Explorer Scout troop. 
Bob spent two years with the Na\y on destroyer duty in the Pacific. Capping his degree wth grad work in correctional ad­ministration at N.D. and Fordham, he re­ceived an M.S. last year from Long Island 
U. and is active in a dozen professional, civic and religious organizations. 
He and his wife, Eileen, have six young­sters of their own. They live at 1278 East 29th Street, Brooklyn. 
nificent 1948 Newsletter of last year and would welcome a few bushels of maU from the Class. Write to him now. 
1949 
John Walker 
Wayne, Illinois 

From the Alumni Office: ARTHUR VINCENT REGAN recendy moved from Chicago to Cincinnati, O., and now lives at 571 Wcllesley Dr., Cincinnati 24. .\rt is mar­ried to the former Alice Trcacy of South Bend^ and the Regans now have eight fJiiIdren, five boys and three girls including twins Tracey Jo 
and Carol Beth. Arc is employed by Arthur 
Young Associates, the CPA firm. Brooklyn's Young Man of the Year, ROBERT 
E. FITZPATRICK, was lauded as a man who recognizes that the "profound truths about man and his destiny are deeply personal truths that de­mand personal responsibility." Bob has spent the past 12 years helping underprivileged and handi­capped children as administrator of St. Vincent's Home for Boys in Brooklyn. He has developed such things as a remedial reading program for the boys, a summer camp program, an Explorer Scout troop, 3Dd football learns that captured the Pec Wee and Junior titles in the Pop Warner League. Selected by BrookIy*n Jaycecs, Bob was feted by 300 ci\'ic and business leaders, eulo^ed by the chairman and president of Charles Pfizer & Co., and received his aifard from a Justice of the New York State Supreme Court. Congratula­tions, Bob. 
Ford recruiter PETE KERNAN recently called 
in from South Orange, N.J., where he attended 
the funeral of his grandmother Mrs. August Stru­
ening. Sympathy and a pledge of pravers, Pete. 
ROBERT M. CONNELLY recently moved to 
14M TarrytOTvn St., San Mateo, Calif., had a 
second child, Kathleen, June I, 1960. Bob ad­
dressed a national meeting of his firm, .Aetna Life, 
last June in Colorado Springs, and he's done 
very well with his sideline, a motels reservation 
center in L.A. and San Francisco. 
DR. JAMES ROTCHFORD, after completion of post graduate work in New York City, has re­turned to Spokane, Washington, and commenced specialued practice in dermatology'. 
DR. D. CURR.\N HIGGINS, following post graduate work at the Mayo Clinic, has commenced the practice of surgery lu Spokane, Washington. 
1950 
Richard F. Halm 47 Emerson Rd. Glen Rock, N. J. 

From the Alumni Ofltce: Alumni Association Director PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY of St. Paul, Minn., has been travel­ing extensively both on private and alumni busi­ness. Pat recently filled us in on the latest addi­tion to the family, Michael Ignatius, third son, preceded by his only daughter. Mike checked In last Memorial Day at nine pounds, seven ounces, and is now pushing thirty pounds. Sounds like a prospect for JOE KUHARICH. JERRY TREACY, soon to be REV. JEROME 
F. TREACY, S.J., is now at West Baden Callese, West Baden Springs, Ind., taking his final theology. Jerry has been at John Carroll University, ^lOford* 
O. He will be ordained June 11 at West Baden. His first Solemn Mass ^vHI be celebrated at St. Matthew's Co-Cathedral in South Bend on June IS at 11:43 a.m. All his classmates are invited. 
JOHN M. PROOS, recently spotlighted as dis­trict manager of Layne-Northcm's Indianapolis office and chairman of the board of La^-ne Sc Bowler, Memphis, Tenn., has been named execu­tive secretary of Layne Associates, a newly fonned national organization to promote progress in con­servation of ground water and pronde informa­tion through research and development. Layne Associates is composed of all the Layne welt drilUntp firms and Layne 2c Bowler, pump manufacturers. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 4$ 
1951 
Robert Klingcnbcrger 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. AVayne, Indiana 
REUNION RIME How the time disappears! AVc haven't 
cadged beers "With classmates at Joer's for 10 long years. ^Vc can brag of our stunning ne^\* daughter 
or son June 9-10-11 in Sweet Sixty-One! 
.All right — I'm son->'! My last set of notes were too late to be published in the last issue. Hoiv­
•c\"cr, none of you better even consider being late lor the lOth REU.VION. 
^LATTY 0*DOXXELL (Capt. M.B. O'D., J..A. Section, Hqr. VII Corps, APO 107, Xcu- York, X.Y.) has a good excuse — he*s in Germany. However, he has promised to make Xo. 15. Matty has two girls and is saving his leave and money Xo sec Dublin. 
Haven't had a good excuse from anyone else. So start a cliain reaction with your better friends among the Class and show up. 
Received Chrstmas cards from the following: JOHX HALEY (7116 Penmoken Dr., Ft. Wayne, Ind.) and Xancy and their two girls. 
RAY MILLER (2584 IVellingion Rd., Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio), his wife, three girls and two I>o\"s. 
JACK YOUXG (3846 MxTtle St., Erie, Pa.), his ivife, Mary .Ann. and their three girls. TO.M MULLEN (Box 14, Paoli, Pa.) and his wife, Julie, who are linng hack in Yankee Country 
•after a spell in Florida. 
DICK MacDOXALD (1005 Highland, Lafayette, Ind.), his wife, Joey, thcJr daughter and three 
hoys. 
BILL W-HITESIDE (4073 Thompson Rd., Lafay­ette Hills, Pa.), his wife, Eileen, their daughter :md three sons. 
JOHX MOORE (672 Graefield Ct., Birming­liam. Mich.) and his bride of a few months, Pat. 
HARRY H.AXIGAX (9414 Laflin, Chicago, 111.), liis wife, Marie, their son, Brian and daughter, ^far>- Beth. 
JIM FRICK (17746 Tanager, South Bend, Ind.), Ills wife Bonny, their three bovs and two girls. 
HARVEY O'XEILL (69 Hillcrcst Dr., Peru, Ind.), his wife, Xanc\', their daughter and two sons. 
FATHER Jl.\f .^LADDEX, C.S.C., (Catholic Church, Biroidakuni, P.O. Halnaghat, Dl. My­mensingh. East Paki<itan). Father Jim thanks us ior our prayers and any contributions that any of us want to make to the Missions, Father Jim would appreciate. 
BOB (EASY ED) EDMOXDSOX, (60 E. 96th St., X.Y. 28, X.Y.), his wife, Marx-, their son, John, and daughter, .Amy. 
PAT BARRETT, (2028 Seabur>- Ave., So., Minneapolis 6, Minn.), Iiis wife, Pat, and son, Robert. Pat is practicing medicine in Minneapolis, loves it and will be at the reunion. 
GEORGE LARSEX, (2436 Clarendon .Ave., I-ouis\illc 5, Ky.), his wife, Rosemary, their three girls and three bovs. 
BUD HERR (Box H., Cliatsworth, 111.), his wife, Barbara, their two boys and daughter. Bud, We'll see you in June, won't We? 
JIM GILLIS, (4315 Kentucky Dr., Bcthesda, Md.], his wife, Jane, and four daughters. Jim left the F.B.I, last ^tay and is now Executive Assistant, Television Code .Affairs with the Telc­\'ision Code Rericvc Board. Jim is planning on ihc reunion. 
STEVE MARTIX, (ID5G A Grcenwidi, San Francisco, Calif.), and his wife, Kathleen. 
HANK MADDEX (20 Oakmont Lane, Signal Mountain, Tenn.), his wife, Sally, a son and two girls. Hank writes lliat DOS SOSDAG and his wife, Liz, \Tsited them one weekend and that Don is taking a residency in Decatur, Ga. Hank also is planning to make the reunion. 
KEN THOREX, (256 Central Ave., Rye, X.Y.), his wife, Pat, a son and a daughter. Ken re­ports having seen JACK YOUNG, TO.M ^VOLFF, JIM VOGEL, JACK MURRAY, BOB EDMOXD­SON, ED MEAGHER, AXDY WALSH, DICK JORDAN. DON RODRIGUEZ, JOHX BROD­ERICK, and JERRY HALLIGAX at the Xavy game and all arc planning on the reunion. 
BILL CAREY, (5007 Morse x\ve., Skokic, 111.), his wife, Helen, two boys and a daughter. 

ED>VARD V. O'AIALLEY, JR., '51 For an Old Phoenix Family, New Frontiers 
E. V. (Ted) O'Malley, Jr., native Phoenician and business cxecutivej today ^^'as elected to the board of directors of The Arizona Bank at the annual stockholder meeting January 25. 
Member of a pioneer Arizona family, Ted is controller and assistant secretar>' of the O'Malley Lumber Co., one of the slate's major suppliers with branches in 15 Arizona communities. He also is currently scr\-ing a first term on the Phoenix Cit>' Council. 
Ted is the son-in-law of Herb Jones, business manager of Notre Dame athletics. He and his wife Jane have five children. 
After attending New Mexico Militar>' Institute, Ted graduated from Notre Dame with a degree in business administra­tion. Before beginning his business career he ser^'ed two years in the army finance corps and audit agency. In Phoenix Ted is active in many organizations, ha\-ing served from 1955 to 1960 as an executive of the United Fund and youngest director on the U,F. Board. He is a member of the Knights of Columbus, St. Francis Xavier Church, Phoenix Kiwanis Club, Arizona Club and the Thunderbirds. He has also ser\'ed on the Board of directors of the Roosevelt Boy Scout Coimcil and Valley of the Sun School for Handicapped Children. 
His election brings to 18 the number of directors of The Arizona Bank, one of the nation's fastest-growing commercial banks with 32 branches throughout the state. With deposits of nearly $150 million, the bank ranks among the 200 largest in the United States. 
PAT O'SULLIVAX. (307 Micliigan Xational Bank Bldg., Port Huron, -Mich.) and his wife,^} Maureen. Pat is definitely planning on being at 
X.D. in June. J.ACK GARTLAXD, (Box 17, Peru, Ind.), his »vifc, -Ann, his son and two daughters. 
AL GUARXIERI, (242 Overlook Dr., X.E., Warren, Ohio), his wife, Ann, three sons and a daughter. .M and Ann have just moved into a neu­home. 
ED MCCARTHY, a^ss of *5D, (59J7 Ilickey St., Mctairie, La.), his wife, Mar\-, one son and two girls. 
TOM CARROLL, (17 Carlton Rd., Hutchinson, Kansas), his wife, Jane, one son and a daughter. A letter accompanied their card, staling that after a year in Kansas, they love it. Tom is playing golf twelve months a year, alternating between white and red balls and doing a lot of duck hunt­ing. Tom, take Jane to Chicago in June and come down to the reunion. rf^i 
With reference to the reunion, let me know^-^ of any ideas any of you have about making it a **good shov\-.** If you consider it worthwhile, we'll form a committee to accommodate wives off campus for those who have to bring them along. If you need any addresses, let me know. 
From the Alumni Office: P.AUL CL.ARK EIDE is still operating an in­surance agenci" in Des Moines. la. He and his ^^•ife. the former Rosemary Treac>*, have three children, two boys and a girl. The address is 600 Fourteenth St., West Des Moines. Congratulations to E. V. (TED) O'.MALLEY, JR., Phoenix, Ariz., on his election to the board of directors of Tlic .Arizona Bank at the last stock­holders' meeting. Member of a pioneer .Arizona family. Ted is also active in lumber and politics. He and Mrs. 0"Mallev (daughter of X.D. Athletic^ Manager HERB JOXES) have five children. ^ RALPH G. SCHULZ has become a member of the lau-firm of Whyte, Hirschboeck, Minahan, Harding & Harland in Milwaukee. 
1952 
Harry h. Buch 600 Board of Trade Bldg. Wheeling, W. Va. 

From the Alumni Office: DE.AN DRISCOLL wrote in to thank the alumni for their expression of sympathy on the death of his father. It was a particularly harrowing experi-— ence for Dean, occurring on his wedding day asC­he was about to depart on the honeymoon. We trust the Class will continue their prayers. 
1953 
David A. McEIvain 6717 Paxton Avenue Chicago 49, Illinois 

Once again your correspondent desperately sound:^ the clarion for more mail; you will note from the brevity of this column that the incoming volume has been somewhat less than ovenvhelming. Let's hear from some of you long lost brethren, lest this column shrivel up into trivia about the author and a few seldom-seen midwestcmers. 
First item of news is the proud announcement of the arri^'al of son .Andy on December 9, to join his sister Diane born a year ago. 
One of the few messages I have received re­cently is from JOHX XOLAXD, who is now Bro. Brian Xoland, O.P. John is presently at the Do­minican House of Studies in Washington, D.C. With his indulgence, I quote in part from his most welcome letter: **After our graduation I re­turned to X.D. for graduate study, but left in '55 to enter the noWtiate of the Order of Preachers 
— the Dominicans. Tlirce years of Philosophy fol­lowcd the no\-itiatc year. During lliat time I ^*'^)}5 at the House of Studies in Dover, Mass. . . . Finishing philosophy I headed toward Washington and the study of theology*. First, though, came my 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 
^solemn profession in the suiiiiiicr of '59; a vcr>­
^lapp y moment. I'm now in the second year of tIicoIog\*; was ordained a sub-deacon this past fall; uill be ordained a deacon next fall and in the followins spring, God willing, 1*11 be a priest forever." John reports further of some classmates: GENE GORSKI was ordained in Rome last fall, and is now studying at the Gregoriaum. ERNIE KARTELL is at the C.S.C. house in Washington, and hopes to be ordained next spring. LEO Di-GIOIA is attending engineering classes at Catho­lic University in Washington. Many thanks, John, for a mucli appreciated report. Our thoughts and prayers are with you; please remember us in vours. 
Other news: ART HEXKEN* is Principal of tlic 

•Willow Grove School in Cenlralra, Illinois, is married and has 2/; children. JIM HUTCHIN­SON* writes: "We are busy getting ready to add on to our 30 year old house to accomodate our expanding family and lake care of both SMC 
^ and NO friends that pass on the pike only 14 >. miles South of us — all are welcome — we think of the 'Zoo' and wonder about everyone.** Jim and wife Pegg\- live in Butler Pa., just North of Pittsburgh, and are busily populating western PcnnsyU-ania with Uttle Hutchinsons; four thus far. Jim operates Hutchinson's Dr>* Cleaner's in But­ler. DAVE HENTGES is at the Stritch School of Medicine in Chicago rinishing work toward .a PhD. in Microbiologx". as a predoctoral fellow, 
U.S. Public Health Service. DAVE HAVES is a Sculptor in Coventr\*, Connecticut, and has two small boys, A note from JOHN MURR^W in­forms us that he is now an M.D. practicing in i'enn Square, Pa., just outside Norrislo%vn, and lie and wife Joan have added to their family John — 2'/;. and Lizann — 1. John also sends along word that .MARTY BREXNAN has his M.D. and is in the Na\y stationed at Philadelphia Naval Ilospi­
^tal. Another Samaritan who has answered the cru­cial plea for news is JI.M FL.\HERT\', who has sent along the following message: **NED BREWER is an engineer at Hamilton Standard in Windsor Locks, Conn.; NEIL BUTLER is an engineer at Canel in Middletown, Conn.; TONY aVRNEVALE is with Bcndix, Telcrboro. N.J. as a production engineer; JIM FLJ\HERT\ ' is selling Bcechcrafts for Atlantic Aviation in Hartford, Conn.; ED HxVDERER is in engineering with Metals and Controk in Attleboro, Mass.; JI.M KEENAN is at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft. East Hartford in the engineering department; HANK McGANN is a sales engineer in Hartford with an air-condition­ing firm: DICK NAULT is with Minneapolis­Hone\-iveIl and living in Woodland Hills, Calif.; JOHN 0*Lr\UGHLIN is in engineering at Coin­
^bustion Engineering in Windsor, Conn.; DICK 
• SCHREIT.MUELLER is an aciuarv at Aetna Life Cos., Hartford; JACK WILCZYNSKI is an engineer with G.E. (Schenectady) and living in Cohocs, N.Y.'* My heartfelt tliaiiks, Jim, for your efforts. It's contributions such as this that keep the cohimn altvc, and without them It's content would be pitifully meager. 
Best regards to alt; hope to Iiear from you. 

From the Alumni Oflicc: A triple triumph fur Connecticut sculptor DAVID V. HAYES since his profile in a recent 
^ RETIRING FOOTBALL CAPTAIN My­^ron Pottios (center) hands the traditional shillelagh to 1961 co-captains Norb Roy 
(left) and Nick Buoniconti. 

issue: the arrival of a second child, Brian James, doing verj* well; another one-man show in New York, this time in the Willard Gallery through February*, with a highly complimentary review in the New York Times; and a projected trip to Europe on a Fulbn'ght Scholarship. Good going, Dave. 
DR. R. E. STEJSIw\L now lives at 2863 Galtier St.. St. Paul 17, Minn. He's currently in radiology residenc>- on a fellowship at' the University of Minnesota Hospital until 1964. 
..\NGELO TURCO of 525 E, Oakside, South Bend, lias become a medical service representa­tive for J. B. Roerig & Co., a pharmaceutical division of Chas. Pfizer & Co., Inc. He and his wife Mary Frances have two children, Lisa Ann, 3, and John Michael, ~ 6 months. 
A one time member of the Chiss, REV. BURTON SMITH, CS.C , was recently the recipient of an unprecedented gift /or his mission activities in Uganda, Africa, from a labor union. Local 263, Brewery Workers, Utica, N.Y., presented him with a check for $800 toward tlic construction of a cliurch for the Holy Cross Foreign Missions. 
1954 
Milton J. Bcaudiae 76 East Court Dr. Decatur, Illinois 

.Along with tiie calendar change for the New Year, please note that there has been a change in the office of class secretary*. GEORGE PFL.\UM has regrettably tendered his resignation as our class secretary due to increased business responsibilities. At this point I could go into flowery detail re­calling the fine job that George has done for us but I believe that a job well done speaks for it­self. Thanks, George, for everything, including your efforts towards making our 1st reunion a smashing success. George's recommendation-that I lake over for him was accepted by the Alumni oflicc so here I am tr>'ing to live up to the established standard of informative, well written articles. Tliis will be pretty Iiard considering Engineers aren't supposed to be able to speak or write English, so try and overlook the grammatical errors. Even an English major, however, could not write an article with­out material so please get out your pens and drop me a line and fill me in on yourselves and any buddies you might run into. GEORGE PFL.\UM passed on about 20 letters ranging from a week to 6 months old so here goes: 
If vou ever need N.Y. Yankee tickets contact BILL GUILFOILE at the Yankee oflicc in N.Y. He is working in public relations there. If you can*t reach him at the office, try 2201 W*cst St., Brooklyn 23, N.Y. Bill reports seeing JOE and Annjoan IMBRLACO from time to time. Joe is with a Newark law firm. BOB and Mildred WAL­LACE are living in Moorcstown, N.J., where Bob is working for R.C.A. PHIL BOLIN is working in N.Y. for an advertising agency. 
TONY GARRUTO is interning at Monmouth Medical Center, Long Branch, N.J. Tony and his wife Pegg>- Iiave a daughter, Maria (Hi Tony). TOM GODFREY is in a Chicago law oflice and BOB GOR.MAX is in a Newark law office. TO.M C/\LDER is working for a Cincinnati law firm. Now I ask you, how can I write on interesting article when all the news is about lawyers? ED LEWIS has become associated with the firm of Patv & Downev in the practice of law •— West Palm Beach, Florida. JI.M HARRINGTON has pole vaulted to Germany for Esso. Tliat*s good distance, Jim, good engineering too. JOSEPH P. MALONEV' (CPA) announces the opening of his office, 517 W\-alt Bldg., 777 14th St. N.W-, Wash­ington 5, D.C. Best of luck, Joe! Received a nice Christmas card from Lj\RRY and Andrew, Davey, Patricia, Melanie GOTUACO, P.O. Box 1254, ^lanila, Phillipincs. 
Some of this may be a little old but under birtlis: Christopher was born to Pat and FR^VNK Rx\ITH; Sliawn Timothy ^vas bom to Peg and DICK Mc-NAMARA; Maureen Ann was born to Mary Ann and TOM 0\MPBELL; Jeanne Claire was bom to Claire and ANDY BAUER (So. 5). BOB FRO­LICHER and spouse had No. 4, a son Eric John. (Bob is working for Croslcy Broadcasting Co., Cincinnati). The GUILFOILES had a son Peter William; and the JACK PITTASES were blessed \rith Marc Alexander. .Another card proudly an­nounces the arri%'al of .\nne Elizabeth to Karen and BILL MORLEV. RICH HOHMAN's an­
Notre 

nouncement arrived, just like clockwork — a boy (No! You*rc not too late to enter the contest. Rich, but by \9&i it's going to take at least ft to win). Pat and BILL REYNOLDS had a boy and PETE and Jean Ann SCHWENK had twiit girls. OH! My wife, Marie, presented me with a boy — Robert Francis. HER.\fAN L. KRIEGS­HAUSER reports that his wife Blanche gave birth to their third son, Keith Martin, in Xo^'cmber. They arc settled at 11700 Scrama Dr., Harwood Hills, St, Louis 31, Mo. Hcrm is associated with his family's funeral business. JIM ZAVATONE has been transferred to Germany and requests that any travelers look him up. Jim, with this address you might never hear from any of us — any­«-ay address all letters to: JLM ZAVATONE, Europa Carton Aktiengesellschaft, Hamburg/ Wandsbek, Tilsit erstrassc 144. Germany (Time out for coffee). News from JUD MORAN, out Port­land way, Jud is married, two children, and work­ings with his father at the Moran Otl Co. His son Louie is a cinch for .All .American fullback in 1981 (you might get an argument there, Jud, unless AP and UPI elect a dozen or more All American fullbacks). An^^vay, HUGH DEVORE please take note- Jud occasionailv sees BOB HEA­LY and TED MURPHY. He asks that JOE D'fVNTONI. uTitc more often. .Also, from Jud, JOHN BIERBUSSE lias moved from Muskegon to Indiana and is in the dra\v*ing supply business and that J. L. WIEG.AND received a law degree from Georgetown and is working with his Dad in Wichita. From GEORGE OFFUTT, 93 Colinial Street, East Northport, N.Y., comes news that being married with two children he is busy work­ing for .Airborne Instruments Laboratory. Not to busv, though, to have run into STEVE PIPOLY, R^VY ONOFRIO and JOHN FALLON. Ray and John arc working for Hamilton Standard in Con­necticut. BILL VALUS is an architect in Strat­ford, Conn. George must get around quite a bit because he reports running into TONY LAPASSO, JIM GA.MPLETON, "SMITTY** MEEHAN, and v\NDY CORR/\0. Also, JOE HARRIS is working in Chicago. NORM ^VEINBERG is coaching in N.J., NICK KR.ALL is raising children in Cali­fornia, JOHN DARAGO is a big banker in .Akron, JOHN ROCHE is crop dusting in Calif, and CHARLEY MINCK was intending to enter the Seminary. Tlianks, George! A few letters like that each month would insure full articles each quarter. Received a Christmas card from CAPT. AL SUWALSKY USMC, Naral Clemency Bd., Na\y Annex, Washington 23, D.C. He reports that SKIP DOYLE is a civilian again studying at the Wliarton School of Finance at Pcnn., that KEN PATTERSON is at Camp Pendleton, Calif., TOM FIELD is at Harvard Law School, and that JACK KEENAN (Capt. USMC) is at Marine Basic School, Quantico, Va. Donna and JOE JOYCE have moved into their new home at 4708 
S.W. I6th St. Des Moines, 15, Iowa. Joe was made a jr. partner in Sept. (another lawyer). BOB RAYMOND is Chem. Engrg. for Universal Oil Products, DesPIaines, 111. J.ACK PITTAS is also with U.O.P., haring recently moved from Washington D.C. where he received a law degree and passed the bar. Ran into Jack at O'Hare Air­port bct^veen flights and we didn't pass the bar, just stopped at it for awhile. 
At football games this fall besides running into PHIL VANHUFFLE, BOB WRIGHT, BILL BURKE, JOHN GROSSPIFTSCH, ED SEIM, "SKIP* CRANE, JERRY DIXON, I ran into "MR TUXEDO", PAUL KELLY. At the Edge Water Beach after the ND-Norwcstcm game I ran into JOE BUSH, DICK ERR, and FRED -M^\NGIALARDL About football — it has been suggested that we have a doss cocktail party this coming season. For it to be a success it takes some ad\-ancc planning and a great deal of work. Anyone wishing to help please contact me soon. Since alumni ticket preference applications come out in June we quickly chose the NOTRE DAME­NAVY game so that you can all order tickets. Plan now to attend and talk it up so we will have a big crowd. More information later. Well that about covers 6 months of material so there's nothing for the March 29 Deadline. Please write. 
From the Alumni Office: JOHN ALEXANDER has just received a Ph.D. in education from Michigan State University. EDW.ARD J. CONNORS, JR., is now a patent examiner for the U.S. Patent Office. JOHN F. PITTAS has joined the legal staff of Universal Oil Products Co. John lives in Elk Grove Village, 111., with his wife and four children. 
Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 47 
1955 
Thomas F. O'Malley 
215 E. 27th Ave. North Kansas City, Missouri 
Paul Fullmer 7344 N. Ridge Ave. Chicago, III. 
Well, gentlemen, a lot of Christmas spirits liavc passed under the bridge since last time I reported to you. The news was good this time as it ai­wa\-s is around the holidays. Before I go any fuitlicr, I would like to wish all of you a verj" happy and prosperous New Year. If, by the time that you all read this, the baseball season is in full swing and tlie Fourth of July is just around the comer, remember that at least the thought 

;. was there. Imagine that you're all a little news-starved by now so I'll start swinging and hope \ that I can , last the ten rounds. Tlie first little tidbit concerns m>'sclf, and I hope tliat you'll all forgive me for starting with it. I couldn't resist, after reporting news like this 
• for the last five years. On last ifay 7th, the i former Miss Jacqueline IIo\\-ard and I were mar-f ricd and now arc washing dishes at the new ad­; dress listed above. To all of you, remaining single ', I have but three words of adrice. TAKE THE . LEAP! It was good to hear from BOB PHILLIPS again who has finally settled to earth after four i fabulous years in the Air Force. He Is now at­tending Har\-ard Business School and is looking fon\-ard to receiving his Masters vcrj- soon. HAR­RY NIENLVNX writes tliat he and his wife had tlieir second cliild, a boy, Micliacl Shawn. Con­
' gratulations. Harr>- is now living in Philadelphla­
: PAUL MURPHY and his wfe Sandra are the proverijjal proud parents of a daughter, Kimball Bolt. Paul was released from llic Anny April 25tli, 1959, and is now working at Harrison 
i Radiator Division of General Motors, Lockport, N.Y. 
This announcement might be just in time for the celebration of her first birthday but Linda Ann McCarrcn wanted people to know that she was around. .Actually, the word came via BOB McCARREN and his wife Ann. Linda was bom Maxell 28th, 19G0, and naturally congratulations are certainly the order of the day. Bob and his wife are lixing in Detroit. 
Heard from JOHN H.\RTiGAN at Christmas with some news that I kneiv couldn't be loo mucli 

1 longer in coming. John became engaged to iliss Mary Kathrv-n Carroll. Congratulations and best wishes to you botli. Once I went, John, your da^-s iverc numbered. BILL TICE has made several business trips 
I to K.C. and we had a chance to get together 
I cacli time. Bill is working for the Olive Can Co. in Chicago and he and his wife, Pat, have re­cently bought a home in Elmwood Park, III. Come sec us the next time in town. Bill. We'll have beans and franks just for you. 
JERRY HUGHES is still in the Air Force and he and Ins \rife Joan, and son Tiinuiy arc living in Big Spring, Texas. Jerrj- Is «orIcing on his blasters now and hopes to receive it next Sep­tember. 
FRANK BURKE and his wife, Ann, send news of the fourtli arri\-al in the family. Cristopher Durken was bom October 2nd. Congratulations. Tliis makes three boys and one girl for tliem and Frank mentions that he hasn't seen any nc^vs of the class that can top tliat total. An\-body ^^^th news to the contrary be sure to write in. Until we receive word, Frank, your title is safe. "Big Daddy of 1961". 
Rccci\-ed a card from BILL STOUTENBURGH who is still holding forth on ^Vall Street. Even though Nikita and Fidel blame you bo>'s for c\'erytliing, we still don't believe a word of it. Bill. I'\'e got a Christmas bonus burning a hole in my pocket. Bill, so if you have any good 
CANTON—New officers, chosen on Notre Dame Communion Simday, arc (from left) Thomas J. Seaman, '53, vice-president; Edward A. Machuga, '55, president; and Charles N. Koehler, '57, secretary-treasurer. 
tips, pass tliem along. Fifty shares of IBM might be a good place to put it for the present time. 
After seeing JOE XASSIF many times while he was stationed in the Army at Fort Leonard Wood, Mo., I lost track of him after he u-as released. He sent a Christmas card to say that he is mar­ried now and studying Arcliitccture at North Caro­lina State College. Joe mentions something about cirilian life being the thing for him. I can't tmdcrstand what he means. You all seemed so happy in the ser\-icc. Just think of those great buys at tlic P.X, 
From Oklahoma City came news of JOHN* HOBBS and Iiis %\-ifc Jacquc, Tlicy have two children now, Johnny and Susan. Thanks for the card, folks. 
Orcliids to D.WE METZ and his wife, Sandy. Michael Da«d Mctz arrived Sept. 27lh and weigh­ed in at 8 lbs., 8 oz. Dave is still with the East­man Kodak Co. and thc>* arc liring in Rocliester, 
N.Y. Tliere ^vos a picture of Michael David en­closed with their Christmas card. Thank good­ness he doesn't look like his old man. 
ROY BELKNAP and his wife, Maureen, sent Christmas greetings from Morton Grove, III. Where did you say that was again, Roy? I remember something about Oak Park being a suburb of Morton Grove. Or was it Glcnview? 
I've watted five years for a letter from BOB "MO " MORRISON and it finally arrived in the form of a Christmas card and a note on the back. I had lost track of you. Bob, and it %^'as great to hear from you again. Bob and his wife, Rita, are more than proud of their daughter, Jeanettc, who was born Sept. Gth, 1959. Bob is now working for an accounting firm in San Diego and is very close to adding C.P.A. after his name. 
TED L.\UGHLIN, his Arifc Marjorie and their son, Teddy, sent greetings from Arlington, Va. where I understand Ted is in medical practice. 
GEORGE SHELTON and his wife, Carol, bid Noel from iJie deep south, Nciv Orleans, that is, George still Iiasn't forgiven me for not cialling him when I was there on my honcjinoon. But George, we couldn't find Bourbon Street! 
HUGH SCHAEFER likes tlic air in Tulsa, Oklalioma, and as far as I Icnow, still manages to stay single. We'd like to have you over if you ever get to K.C, Hugh. Wc all can go swimming at the ^lissouri Dimes. 
Tlic cold weather hasn't licked him yet so JIM RILEY still lives in Milwaukee. Hope things are going well for you, Jim, and tliat you're still able to fight the battle of the bulge that so many of us lost years ago. Tlie battle, tliat is, not the bulge. 
JACK SORANNO and his wife, .Arlenne, are now living in Ncedham, Mass. I'm told that this is actually a suburb of Boston. Tliey \vcre trans­fcrcd there from California where Jack had been with the' Gillette Co, for several years. He's still with Gillette but has moved more into sales promotion. Tliose ^'Supers'' arc still greater than ever. Jack. 
PAUL FULLMER had some happy news the last time that I talked iritli Iitm. He and Miss Sandra Clifford will be married April 22 in Chica­go's Holy Name Cathedral. Sandra is the Mexi­can amateur golf cliathpion and resides in Mexico 
City, but Paul met her last summer when she was in the Windy City for a tournament. He spent the holidays in Mexico with Sandra and her family. Well, Gentlemen, this is about the last piece of news that I have to report except for one tiling more. As I mentioned to many of you at the class reunion, I felt that after five years of being class secretary*, we should let someone else have the opportunity of hearing from all of you. Also, recent changes in my work have made it practically impossible for me to devote enough time to the column to make it worth reading. I discussed this situation with many of you when we got together in June and, at that time, I asked for suggestions as to Avho you would like to have write the column in the future. PAUL FULLMER's name was mentioned often and those that I talked to felt that he would do a fine job. Paul has alwa^-s been a regular contributor to tlie column and is well known by most of the class. After cliccking wltli the other class officers, I approaclicd Paul with the idea and he gra­ciously said tliat he would be honored to have tlic job. There is no question about his ability to write a fine and informative column if you all give him the Iielp that you gave me. Re­member, it's news about you that only you can tell us about. Unless, of course, your fame has spread to oilier grads who pass the word along. 
Paul's (nirrcnt address is at the top of the column and all of your mail should be sent to him in the future. It's been a pleasure and an honor to be your class sccretarj' for the last five years. I only hope that you all have enjoyed reading my rambling as mucli as I enjoyed rambl­ing for you. Thank you for all of your help. Good luck. 
From the Alumni Office: GEORGE RICHARD DONAHUE, a Commerce) grad, was graduated from Northwestern Law School in 1960. In September of last year he ^^•as admitted to the Indiana and Illinois Bar. He's now scHiing in a one-year appointment as la^v clerk to the Chief Justice of the Indiana Supreme Court, 
Congratulations to JOHN ANL\N of Canton, O., on his recent engagement. 
Classmates who read the last December issue of the Saturday Evening Post noted that STEVE PREVOZNIK is mentioned prominently in con­nection with a new pain-killing drug. 
FRANK VARRICHIONE, the old thcspian, knows how lie's going to spend the next three autumns, lia\*ing signed with the Pittsburgh Stcelers for that period. 
1956 ( 
John P. Dcasy 5697 N. Lincoln Ave. Chicago 45, Illinois 
REUNION RIME Oft our memory veers to hig wheels and small gears We fought ^vith for four and have missed for five years. Though they've all gained a Ion, not a one should wc shun June 9-10-11 in Sweet Sixty-One! 
From the Alumni Office: i ROBERT A. RICHARD, a former vice-president of the Canton, O., N.D. Club and a first lieutenant in the Army, presently ser\-ing as a member of the Club's board of adnsors, has been promoted to assistant trust officer of Canton's First National Bank. The Richards have two children and live at 4910 MonticcHo Ave., Canton. 
Sympathy to PAUL A. MATZ of Tucson, Ariz,, on the death of his brother Henry in Tucson January 11. 
PAUL H. GIROUX of Endicott, N.Y., has been appointed staff engineer in space guidance and control systems at the IBM FSD Space Guidance Center, Oswego, N.Y. Paul joined IBM after grad­uation as a junior engineer at the Vestal Airborne Computer Laboratories, assigned to computer logic design. He was promoted to assodate engineer in 1958 and joined the space department a year ago. A native of Malone, N.Y., Paul is treasurer of thc( Binghampton Chapter of the IRE professional group on electronic computors. He lives at 512 Day Hollow Road, Endicott. 

48 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 
1957 
Donald J. Barr and^ Jack E. Casey 463 Briar Place Chicago 14, Illinois 

From the Alumni Office: 
Belated congrats to PAUL HORNUNG for his brilliant play and record with the Green Bay Packers in the past pro season and for his team's fine performance in defeat by the Eagles in the climax. What's this about Paul's terror or histrion­ics in the TV series, "My Sister Eileen?" 
SjTnpatJiy of his classmates to BOB JURAL\X of Paterson, X.J., currently '« Uncle Sam's grasp with Company D, lOih Battalion, Fourth Training Regiment, Infantr>', Fort Knox, Ky. 
Princeton awarded an M,A. in politics to DOUG­
LAS COLE. 
FR/\NCIS T. McDOXALD has become assistant sccretar>' of the People's Trust and Savings Co., Fort AVayne, Ind., under the presidency of his brother Donnelly, '47. Sympathy to both on the death of their father. A Coast Guard vet, Frank is active in several church and civic groups and has two youngsters. 
Congratulations to EDWARD H. GREEX III, on Iiis marriage to Margaret Phclan, daughter of Laelare ^fedallst John Henry Phclan in St. .-Vnne's Church. Beaumont. Tex., last Nov. 25. 
HERBERT J. O'ME^VR^V Is now a Chicago law-year, living at 674 West Divcrscv Parkv^'ay, Chi­cago. Herb is one alumnus who need have no fear of his name being spelled wrong on these pages, since his sister Rosina is a decorative mcm­t>cr of the proofreading department at Ave Maria Press. 
1958 
Arthur L. Roule, Jr. 1709 Indiana Avenue LaPorte, Indiana 

Greetings, one and all. From the typewriter of our old scrivener, comes another newsletter — he first of I96I. This is my first opportunity to kish you all a happy and successful new year, nd I would like to express the hope that the oming year may sec the accomplishment of what­vcr your particular goals may be. Yours truly lopes to finally sec the end of his present cn­cavor — that is the completion of law scliool. 'hen in the subsequent months be expects to be-in his military career, in one form or another preferably another). 
I was happy to receive a number of Christmas reetlngs In the past couple of weeks. Many ^ of !icm were accompanied with short notes apprising le of the whereabouts and whatabouts of the mders. These of course were double appreciated. ihilc on the subject of news-gathering let me ly just one thing — we hereby expressly rcpu­late the doctrine that "No news is good news." ro more need be said at this time. 
Among the senders ol Christmas greetings ivcrc le following: JOE KXOTT and family; the OM SABO's; JOHN BERCHE.M; FRANK [ERIGSTAD; PAUL and Chris PIKELL; Carol, AVE, Julie and Joe HOLTHOUSE; BILL a4 ­ILL; PAT, Katie, and Erin Anne DOL^\N; OB and Mary KOLOPUS; HOOT WALSHj lib and DICK MURPHY. JIM FOLEY; EL­MER, Carol and Elmer Allen LAYDOX; and JOHN RUSSO, Many ilianks. 
As for the ncws-bearcrs, here arc our scoops for this issue. BOB KOLOPUS writes that he Is now married to the former Miss Mary Garbcr of Mt. Vernon, Ohio. Bob and Mar>* were wed last June; and arc now living in Columbus, w*herc Bob is a design engineer with the Bureau of Bridges of the Ohio Highway Dcpt. 
FR^\NK HERIGSTAD reports from Dallas that he has recently had the enjoyable experience of terminating his tour of active duty with the U.S. Army. Frank was stationed at the Beaumont Gen­eral Hospital in £1 Paso for 20 of his 24 months of Army life. 
JOHN BERCHE.\f, another recent graduate of the ser\"ice, reports that he Is now In law school at Dc Paul, in Chicago. John spent two years in Bainbridge, Md, with the Nai-y. Among those recently encountered by Mr. Berchem are WALT HUURMAX, of Northwestern nied scIiooI, and C.\N LYNE, who is now also at Bainbridge. 
A photograph Christmas card brought the news of the arrival of a husky TOM SABO, JR., on June I9tl», 1960. Pappy Tom is In his third and final year of law studies at the Univ. of Montana. DICK MURPHY of Boston is another of our class's budding attomc>-s. He Is at Boston Univ. Law School on a scholarship, after spending two years in the Naiy and marr>'mg Barb Buckley last summer at X.D. Dick was assistant football coach at Boston College High last fall and saw his team win the City of Boston title. 
JIM FOLEY, tvho is now in California, in­forms us that he is about to receive his Master's degree in business at the Univ. of California at Berkeley. In fact, by the time this is In print he will have already done so. Jim took time out in the middle of his graduate studies to take care of his military obligation. He ako reports that BILL QUINLJ\ N was married In Mt. Pleasant, Micliigan, on Dec. 31, I960; and that DICK KWAK plans for nuptials this spring. 
A letter dated last October trom BOB SECKLER next strikes my eye. Bob became engaged to Miss Mary Carol Mahlstcdt, of Baldwin, N.Y, last May. June 24, 1961 will see their marriage In Hempstead, Long Island. Bob is now studying for his Master of Finance degree at yVU in the evenings. In the meantime he Is working for Metropolitan Life Insurance. Last May also saw the end of Bob's scrx'ice tour. 
I have two letters here brought to mc from overseas througli the courtesy of the Army-.Air Force Postal Service. The first Is from RUSS HOPKINS who is currently stationed near Muench­weiler, Germany, which Is in the Southeast, near France. Russ teaches \-arious military and medical subjects, whicli he Is forced to learn during his spare time. (In this revelation, I suspect Mr. Hopkins of being a bit over-modest). Russ is also spending some time at the local Berlits school where he learns German and teaches English. His weekends arc spent in sucli siles as Heidelberg, Saarbrucken, Karlsrulic, Baden-Baden, and Frank­furt. In another ten months or so, Russ will be returning to the U.S., where he Is considering doing some graduate schooling. 
Our other overseas correspondent Is GERRY McCfVBE. He too is In Germany — Berlin. Gerry has been stationed in Berlin for upwards of 14 months as of this writing, and he further in­forms us that DENNY CON^VIAY is at the same location, sporting a promotion to SP/o. (What­ever that is). 
JIM BREN*NAN supplies us with a fine lot of news in his letter from Camp Lejeune, N.C. He was married June 14, 1958 to PriscJIla UVight of North Aitlcboro, Mass. Colleen Mary, the first new Brennan was bom on May 2, 1959. Her brother James Stephen arrived on the 25th of Marcli, 1960. Jim's temporary occupation is with the U.S.iLC., until June, I96I. Included in Jim's letter is the following, which I think I shall quote directly since that would seem to be the simplest i^-ay to relate it. It goes as follows: 
I've run into a number of '57 and '58 grads, both here and while at Quantlco. Among them: JACK CARPENTER (still footloose and fancy free), JOHN HENNEDY (got out of the ^(arine Corps last June, whereabouts now unknown), MIKE GLE^VSON (still in the XLD. — doing some cloak and dagger work 
— stfll single), BOB Mca\RTHY (went through tlie O.C. program, tlicn to Flight 
ScIiool in Flonda — think he is completins 
training in Texas presently). I've kept in touch with a few others wa the mails — BOB McHALE (shipped over in 
the Army — nmv in Germany), BOB DUFFY 
(out of the Army, single, and worklns ui 
N.Y.C. with the telephone company) DAVE McMAHOX (married Colleen Phclan from Barat College — has one child), JOE BREIDEiVSTEIX (met him in IVash., D.C. In August — only briefly — can't remember what he's doing), JOHN MUGFORD (Jack didn't graduate with us but you might re­member him). 
Hearty thanks to you, Jim. 
BUD TRAPP, who has been playing baseball in the Detroit organization, and Is now back at 
N.D. stud>-ing for a Master's degree, writes that JIM MORRIS Is teaching In Springfield, Illinois, and Is also in the real estate business; that JOHN MURRAY is teacliiog in Virginia, Illinois: that AUBREY LE^VIS If teaching and coaching- in Patterson, New Jersey; that DICK PREXDER­GAST is in dental school In Chicago; that DICK DIVINE Is finishing his course in Physical Therapy at the Mayo Clinic; that CHARLIE KILB Is in the USAF in New Jersey; that TO.M SWMTOW­SKI Is married and maldng a career of the Air Force; that JOE DWYER is married and working In St. Louis; and that PETE MURPHY Is work­ing in Portland, Oregon. 
WAIT S.MITHE writes from Indianapolis tell­ing us that he is about to sever relations with the 
U.S. Army. ^Valt has been with computors and teaching their use while with the Army at Fort Benjamin Harrison. As a result of this experience he has been hired by General Electric for their new computor department, and the Smithes will be moving to Phoenix, Arizona. Walt mentions that BILL STURGIS Is managing a post ex­change in Alaska; BOB WATERS is in France with the Air Force. 
NEIL O'BRYAN sent a postcard from the Canal Zone where he Is with the lOIst .Airborne Dlri­sion. 
LT. J. G. GERRY DAHLE happily reports that he Is being transferred from the radar picket ship 
U.S.S. Scanner to shore duty with illlitary Sea Transportation Service at Fort Mason, San Fran­cisco. According to Gerry, nothing could be finer. 
LARRY SHEARON wrote during December to remind me that CHET RAYMO, who received his 
YOU CAN HELP NOTRE DAME 

BY Sending a personal contribution 
Submitting names of friends inter­ested in the University Advising N.D. Foundation Office if 
your company has a *plan of giving* 
Informing University of your cor­poration's *areas of interest' Remembering the University in your 
"VVill or Bequest Contributing gifts other than money 
(i.e. paintings, equipment, books, etc.) 
Naming the University as a benefici­ary in your insurance policy 
Listing names and addresses of Foun­dations in your communit)* 
UNivERsrrv OF NOTRE DAUE FOUNDATION, ; NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April^ 1961 49 
master's in Plix-sics from UCLA in June, is now 
at K.D. working on a fcI!ov\-ship towards liis 
PhD. Larr>- also reports that GERRY GOETE­
MAXN was married October 22, in Xorfolk, Va., 
and is now living in Ohio. As for himself. Mr. 
Shcaron is working as a development engineer at 
the Minneapolis-Hone>^vcU Aeronautical Division in 
Minneapolis. 
.\ letter from the West Coast brings the news 
that ROS BOTTUM and wife, M3r>-, arc now 
li\-ing in Los Angeles where Ros is attending law 
school at Southern Cal. TIic Bottums have a 
daughter, Catherine .Ann. age 9 months as of 
December. 
Also at Southern Cal Law School arc ^tlKE 
FITZPATRICK and PAT HUGHES. .Ml three: 
Ros, Mike, and Pat, arc in their third year. 
GENE L.\V.^LLE is studying at Loyola La%v 
School in Los Angeles. 
Tlic follou-ing all comes from Ros Botium: 
JIM WALDRON is in the Xaxy and stationed 
in Long Beach. He has just returned from a lour 
of the Far East. D.AX L.\MONT is also in the 
Xaw. and is stationed in San Diego. JERRY 
WILSOX, after hanng been in the Army, is now 
in Los .\ngclcs. DUANE VAX DYKE is attend­
ing gnid school at USC and working for an ex­
port company. BOB MORETTI is working for an 
insurance company in Los .Angeles. JERRY REEDY 
is teaching English while working for his master's 
at the U. of South Dakota. DICK SWEETM.AX, 
P.AT HEALY, and P.AT ROGERS arc all in Sioux 
Falls, S.D. 
JACK MARTZELL of the X.D. Law School has 
supplied me with a couple of items. ROX' B.-\B­
COCK is living in Suffern, X-Y,, and working 
for the Arthur Anderson accounting firm in Xcv^• 
York. JERRY SL.-\TER is in the Xaxv somewhere 
in the vicinity of Califoniia. JERRY BR.-\DY is 
at the U. of California Law Scliool in Berkley; 
he is married and has one child. 
JOE KXOT T dropped in to South Bend during 
X'ovembcr, when he spoke to the A.I.Ch.E. on 
campus. Joe was about lo move to Chicago where 
he is taking o\er a new sales territory'. Unfortu­
natclv, I have forgotten the name of his companv. 
And finally, JOHX DUXX and DALE LARUE were both seen in the vicinity of St. Marv-'s during Januar>'. 
Tliat winds up this issue. I hope you have found it interesting and evocative of some warm mem­ories. It has done so for me, but there is one thing missing, I don't sec YOUR name in it. 
So long for a couple of months. 
P.S. Here is your first notice- Our first reunion will be held in June of 1963. Start thinking about it now. If you do so, you will be firmly con­vinced, by two years hence, that you don't want to miss it. 
From tlic Alumni Ofiice: 
The Peoria paper showed a picture of JOHN JACHMAN happily shoveling snow in front of his home. Reason for the joy: Ensign Jachman had escaped from the tragic fire that swept the air­craft carrier USS Constellation after a construc­tion accident at a Xew York pier. *'Lct's get out of here,'* John snapped to his crew, and out tliey got, unlike 50 other workers who perished in the blaze. John lives at 2905 Heading Avenue, West Peoria. 
C. J. STAPF, JR., a technical representative for 
E. I. du Pont dc X'emours & Co., U'ilmington, Del., was co-author of a technical paper delivered at the 46th annual meeting of the Technical .Association of the Pulp and Paper Industry (TAPPI) in late Fcbruarv- in Xew York. Tli'e meeting was attended by more than 3.000 pulp and paper specialists from tlie U.S. and abroad. Stapf lives at 50 A Court Drive, Wilmington 5. 
Ohio State University awarded an M.S. degree to VIRGIL J. LUXARDIXI, JR., at the Decem­ber commencement. 
1959 
Dennis M. Nead 6121 RobisonRd. Cincinnati, Ohio 
TOMMY HARLE is presently engaged to Mar­lene Krapac and \rill be married in Calumet City 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 
in May, 1961- Honorary class member TEDDIE KUR-AK is still displa>-ing his Irish hospitality to the members of the class of '59, so if you arc close to the region near Chicago be sure and stop in to say hello. 
MIKE DAFFY DUG.AX is in bis second year of law school at Creighton University doing quite well. His fonner Chicago blowouts arc Iield down only through studious hours in the law library. 
GEORGE SPAHX is stationed at tlic 525th Military Intelligence Group at Ft. Meade, Mar>'­land. His M.O.S. carries his travels to Europe and .Asia about e\"erv- six montlis for a few weeks. 
BUCKY B.ALL has recently joined the foot soldiers at Fort Bcnning, Georgia, for a six month tour of GI dutv. His home is in Rve, X*e\v York-
M.ARK KESSEXICH is part of the 3rd Marine Division in Okinawa and will more than Ukcly enjoy a long tour there. His growing golf talents will probably be limited, but I am sure that rock ball will still be in effect. 
HUGH MURPHY writes from Rome and saj-s that he has visited all the countries in Western Europe. He has run into TOM J.ABLOXSKI in Orleans. France, and LT. S. PIETROWICZ in Darmstadt. Germany. 
R.AY GRUBBLE was married on Sept. 3rd to Jean Kanp, a former student at St. Mar\*'s. Ray is working for the Teletype Corporation, and he and his wife reside in Skokie, Illinois. 
ED MEZZAPELLE married .Alice Schmitt .Au­gust 20, 1950, in Flushing, X'ew York. Since graduation he spent two years at Xew York Univ., studying for his masters degree in Business Ad­ministration. In Sept., 1960, he entered the .Air Force and is stationed at Hanscom Field, Bedford, Mass. His present address is 26-C Roberts Drive, Bedford. Mass. 
JOHX BOYCE is in the second year of law at St. Louis University, I believe, and the law and Sully teem to be getting along fine. 
^HKE TRESSEL was married on Xow 12th to .Anita Puchly at the Sacred Heart Churcli on the campus. Mike's parents were also married on the campus and recently celebrated their 24th an­niversary. He has been working for the Sinclair Refinerx- in East Chicago as a Chemical Engineer since graduation. 
JIM KEEG.AX is enjoying his second Xa\'>* cruise on the USS Intrepid along with JOHN H.AYWARD, TV STEWART, J.ACK HOGAX and SHAKY LEWIS. Tlie Sorin and Walsh crew had quite a time for themselves al the Xotrc Dame Club in Rome. 
JOE MULLIGrVX' is in his second year of studies at ^It. St. Mar>"s Seminarj- In Norwood, Ohio. Xext year lie will take up thcoIog>-. 
HOOT W.ALSH, notable class adviser to the boys of '5% is presently selling life insurance lor Equitable Life. Help the kid out; he needs the money. 
Congratulations to JOHX and Barbara PREY on the recent birth of their first child, Barbara Lynn. 
AXDY SULLIVAX is In his second year of law at DcPaul University in Chicago. .Andy majored in Finance at Scliool. 
XOR.M SCHXURR is furthering his education In Mccltanical Engineering at Ohio State University, 
ROBERT STROBACH is in the second year of Med school at the Univ. of Kansas. PETE SHEPT.AK Is in Med school at the University of Pittsburgh, 
JOHX FIX*X of Waco, Texas, is after his masters either in Education or Guidance at the University of Texas. 
TIM G.ALVIX is In law school at the Uni­\-ersIiy of Michigan. VrrO NIGRELLI is with the U.S. Steel Cor­poration in Gary, Indiana. 
JIM O'BRIEX is in Med school at Creighton University, and JOHX O'BRIEN Is studying the same at Stanford. 
From the .Alumni Office: JOHX DAVID TREACY is now a first lieutenant in the .Air Force, stationed at Beauccjour Air Force Station,- Manitoba, Canada. Pre\*ious]y he was a second lieutenant at Caswell AFB, Lime­stone, Me. Mechanical engineer J.AY JONES was recently elected recording secretary of the Allis-Chalmcrs Engineers Society, a trainee organization in Mil­waukee. Ensign CH.ARLES F. DIETSCH has assumed the post of officer In cliargc of the Naval Reser\-e Training Center, Canton, O., after destroj'cr serv­ice overcas. NICK PIETROSANTE, after a brilliant season with the Detroit Lions, is filling a lot of speak­

1961 
ing engagements lately. Recently he was the principal speaker at a slag smoker at Fort ^VayncVj Orchard Ridge Country Club. 
JOHN P. O'NEILL is at Stanford University stud\*ing for his Doctorate. He and his wife arc living at Bldg. 309, Apt 3, Stanford Village, Stan­ford, California. 
1960 
John F. Gcicr 715 La Crosse Avenue Wilmcttc, Illinois 
Since the writing of the last column, your re-. 
porter has been south of the border enjoying the 
culture and warm climate of Mexico. The greater 
part of my trip was spent with a family In Mexico 
City, who understandably, did not know a word of 
English. .'Vs one of the main objectives of my 
trip was lo develop my spe.-iking knowledge of 
Spanish, I was anxious to undergo such an ordeal. 
The language barrier wasn't nearly as unbearable 
as haring to hear the vociferous and never-ending 
chatter of Lorenzo—an obnoxious, forty-year old 
parrot who was perched In tlie patio directly be­
neath my bedroom window- .At any rate, that 
experience, perhaps never to be tried again, will 
always be an unforgettable one. 
While on tour of the Castile of Emperor MaM­
miltan In Mexico's capital city, it was a happy 
occasion for nic to meet neivlyweds Margaret ^"tL^ 
RALPH SAUER. Ralph and his bride were rcMj 
turning to Texas via Mexico City after an Aca­
pulco hone^moon. 
ED (T) KENNEDY sends us word that he and Eileen Kilday will take marriage vows come this June—and will honcxinoon in Ireland. Ed is pres­ently doing graduate work at the University of Chicago school of business-
Other nuptual noies . . . DICK BENKENDORF was married to Carol .Ann Reed last November in Ottawa, 111. . . . BILL ROTH, now at Purdue studying Industrial Administration, %^'as married to the former Pat Gibson of South Carolina. . . . And Joe McCARTHY and Terrc Ann Grace were married on September 10, and are liring at 2822 
S. Lillle .Ave, Fort Wayne, Indiana. Joe. by the wav. is emploved at Magnavox in Fort Wavne. 
TONV BARTOLINI and ROX BLUBAUGH have set up Jiousckecpjng together in Chicago^) While Tony Is completing his requirements for a master's at Loyola University, former Scliolastic Edilor-in-cliief Blubaugh is keeping himself busy at X'orthwcstem University's school of journalism. 
From Illion. X'-Y., comes the ncn's that W.AR­XER CONXICK has joined ihe staff of \nce President Lyndon Johnson. Warner, nonetheless, will continue with his studies in history- at George ^Vashington University. 
DICK S.APP is on active duty with the U.S. Air Force and is working for a master's in Applied Statistics and Quality Control In the Department of Industrial Engineering at Stanford. . . . .And thanks. Dick, for sending along the neu-s of the follovring. .. . 2nd Lt. HARRY HEXXIXG has been assigned to Craig .Air Force Base for the completion of his flight training. . . . While sta­tioned at Wright-Patterson .Air Force Base in Day­ton, JOE TESSITORE is working for another dcQ grce in .Aero Engineering. . . . MIKE FRiVXZ, a recipient of a Xatlonal Defense Education Act Scholarship, is at Sanford siudving German. . . . -And Ensign CH.ARLIE RIEHM Is working for Admiral Rickover in l\'ashington. D.C. 
.A note from BOB BRANXON advises mc that he has left Dennison, Iowa, to work for the Chi­cago Tribune. Bob's new address Is 6040 X'. AVin­throp. Chicago, 111. . . . .Also in Cliicago Is former WSND broadcaster JACK SHAUGHNESSY, who is working for an advertising firm plus studying accounting at Northwestern. 
BOB EIDSHUX, Short Hills. X.J., has been quite active since graduation. Bob has been study­ing industrial design at the Pratt Institute of Brookl>-n, and at the same time, has made quite a name for himself In the designing of automo­tive pidilicatlons. Some of the magazines In.w*hlch hts articles and publications have appeared tht ^ far arc Cars, Sports Cars. Boating Industry, Fieltr & Stream, and Argos>'. Come this June Bob will be married to Dian Clifford, also of Short Hilts. 

While on a recent visit to Chicaso* JOHN CAR­^ET A informed me that he is brokenng with K.\ferrill, Lynch . . . during the day, while at 
night he attends St. John's Law- School. . . > A 
letter from the mother of ED BOYLE brings tis 
the report that Ed is touring the Orient with the 
U.S. Xa^y. Stationed aboard the destroyer "Par­sons," Ensign Boyle will Wsit \-arioiis ports along the coasts of China, Korea, and Japan. Those who arc collectors ot Far Eastern curios can send your requests to Ed at this address . . . U.S.S. Parsons (DJ>. 949), c/o FPO, San Francisco, California. 
From DAN O'NEILL I received a lengthy letter 
on his activities in the Navy. Having recently completed Officers Candidate School, Ensign O'Neill complains that "there is plenty of marching. lots of shoe shining, loads of personnel Inspections, and seemingly no time to study." Despite his gmmb­ling, he seems to be enjoying It at that. Other ^soaring *60ers who graduated with Dan from OCS |.n Newport, R.I., were . . . SAN lAQUINTA (now in supply school at Athens, Ga.), DAVE Om , TO.\f "BRUISER" BRINKWORTH (sta­tioned in Japan), GUINESS McFADDEN, DAVE FAY, TOM MOYNAHAN, BILL McCOY, and JIM HARRINGTON (now serving shore duty in 
San Juan, Puerto Rico). 
Congratulations to Janet and DAN CRONIN who are now the proud parents of two children. Susan Afargaret, a "healthy, rosy, girl" was born Oct. 15. 
DAVE SANGER is earning a living as an ac­
countant in the Monroe ofEcc of the Michigan Gas 
Utilities Company . . • and a message from TOM 
SHISHMAN Indicates that he is enjoying his busy 
schedule in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Tom, an­
other of our many energetic classmates, is a gradu­
ate student at the University of New Mexico when .not otherwise occupied as an employee of the |>andia Corp. 
BOB LOGAN is current whilling away his work­ing hours in a bank In Milton, Mass., while FRED SEAMON has been with the Prudential Insurance Company in New Jersc>- prior to his entering the Army In Fcbruarj'. 
Sincere sympathy to FRANK CAUCHON, on the death of his father, Leon B. Cauchon. Also re­member in your prayers the repose of the soul of REV. ROCCO A. FAIOLA, MA'60, who died 
November 13. 
After touring seven countries In Europe last fall, ED 0'\L\LLEY has finally settled dou-n with a position as an editor and reporter for the Empona Gazette of Emporia, Kansas. During one of his weekend trips into Kansas City, Ed managed to sec BILL NOYES and TERRY TEIDY, both sen.-­ing their sLx-month active reserve at Fort Leonard Wood, Mo. Tcrr>% however, has since been trans­ferred to San Antonio for the remainder of his active duty. 
More '60 grads who are studying jurisprudence in \*arious spots of the countr>' are . . . DENNY PHENEY, who is at the University of Detroit; JIM ALLEN, at Har\-ard; ED KEARSE and MIKE FELD.MEIER, at Notre Dame; and JI.M GOULD —plus DAVE DOOLEY—at Indiana; PAT CREA­DON at Loyola, and MARC MUSCARELLO at the University of Illinois. . . . Law Students in the Washington, D.C., area include JERRY 0*MARA, JOHN WURSTA, and MIKE SCH.\EF­ER. 
Those who were present for JOE SCHAMBER'S wedding last summer were MARC BRAECKEL, JI.M ^V'ELTER, KIRBY NEILL, GREG GILLIES, and ED McKEO\VN. 2nd Lt. Schambcr and wife Nanc>* arc now located in California where Joe is stationed with the Marines. . . . JOE HILGER, after spending the summer in Europe, is studying for his MBA in accounting at Temple University in Pa. . . . and TOM BATES is no\«' living In Pittsburgh ^vhere he works for Price Watcrhouse Co. 
Recent, but nebulous news places ROCKET O'NEILL at Fordham Law School. He's also working out at some gym called the New York Athletic Club. . . . Rumor has It, JIM THOMP­SON has settled down to a life of marital bliss someivhere In Brooklyn Heights. 
A letter from Bocholt, Westphalia, reportes that KARL REMMEN (MA '60), who has recently completed university studies at Freiburg, aspires to a teaching career (on the "g>-mnasium*' level) In native Germany. . . . And 2nd Lt. LARRY HANRAHA N is polishing brass at Aberdeen Prov­ing Grounds-as are ART VELASQUEZ, DAVE MARESH, DEN BODZIONY, BOB PAUL, JERRY DEL.\Y, and DICK PLUNKETT. 
I was pleased to find that the pi^Iication of the last issue of the ALUMNUS has praoipted maiiT of you to write. And I do hope the cecums will continue to reflect class intcRSt. 
. . . Until the next report, best vrashes to all. 
From the Alumni OfHce: JOHN J. ADAMS has been assigned as a sales engineer to The Trane Company sales ofBce in Bethesda, Afd. John finished a giaduate engineers training program on the company's air conditioning, heating, ventilating, and heat transfer eqtnpment in La Crosse, Wisconsin. 
THONUS M. BRADY joined the Sperry Gyro­scope Company last June as an assistant engineer In the Land Armament Engineering Department, Surface Armament OIvisioD. 
JOSEPH A. CLARK of Lancaster, Fa., has been awarded a Rotary Foundation Fellowrship to study physics at a major European university in the coming year. 
Grad school alumnus WILLIAM R. COULSON now lives at 1033-H Monroe St., Albany 6, Calif., with ^Irs. CouUon and four children. Bill is doing ^vork on his Ph.D. at the University of California, Berkeley. 
RALPH H. SAUER was married to Margaret Joe Green, daughter of THONfAS F. GREEN, '27, In Houston last November with atl the ceremony that might be expected in Texas. The numbers at River Oaks Country Club were so staggering that guest CLYDE BROUSSARD, '13, inquired whether the father of the bride had a tank car filled with champagne on a railroad siding near the club. 
1961 

From the Alimini Office: Introducing NICK PALIHNICH, genial secre­tary of the Senior Class of I96I, who will conduct this column starting in June. February grads can reach Nick at 111 Sorin, and after Commence­ment mail will be fonvarded from 34 Dartmouth Road, West Orange, N.J. 
PERPETUAL REMEMBRANCE IN THE JMASSES AND PRAYERS OF THE PRIESTS AND BROTHBIS OF THE CONGREGATION OF HOLY CROSS. "A thoughtful and much appreciated way of remembering the departed soul of a relative, friend or fellow alumnus." 
SPIRITUAL BENEFITS Every Day—remembrance in over 800 Masses. Every Sunday—High Mass for living and deceased benefactors at Foreign Mission Seminary, Washington, D. C. Every Year—remembrance in four annual novenas. 
HEU>S BENGAL MISSIONS All membership ofFerings help Holy Cross mis­sioners overseas and provide the training and equipment for future missioners educated at the Foreign Mission Seminary, Washington, D. C. 
A beautiful framed certificate of membership (with donor's name) is promptly sent to the family of the deceased. Offering is $5 for each person enrolled. 
Mail offering v/ith names and mailing instructions to: 
HOLY CROSS PURGATORIAL SOCIETY 
HOLY CROSS MISSIONS WASHINGTON 17, D. C. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1961 fl 
The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
Dear Fellow Alumni: 

During the many years of continued growth and development of Notre Dame—each Alumni Board has endeavored to add strength to the programs of the University administration. In the past two years, it has been my pleasure and honor to serve as a member of the Board. This indoc­trination has given me the opportunity to observe the accelerated progress of Notre Dame. 
In this first message as President, I wish to sincerely thank all of you for the honor of serv­ing as President this year, and especially to thank the present members of the Board for the con­fidence that has been placed in me. The administrations of Mike Layden, Bill Cotter, John O'Connor—and those who served \vith them—have all made valuable contributions to the strong foundations that had been firmly established by the Alumni Association in years past. 
As you all know—^Notre Dame has many annual and long-range objectives. For 1961, the primary objective is the fund for our New Librarj'. As Alumni, we have an opportunity to help Notre Dame in its truly "greatest hour of need." I feel most sincerely that all Notre Dame Alumni and former students have received many advantages and opportunities in life that have not been so easily accessible to Alumni of most other universities. If this is true—and I know that most of you ivill agree that it is true—then we must recognize that we have accumulated an unwritten obligation. 
We are all familiar with the generous Grant that is available to Notre Dame from tlie Ford Foundation. Notre Dame is already one of the greatest Universities—but in order to continue to compete against Universities with larger endowments, against the competition of State-financed Colleges—we must obtain the maximum possible from the -Ford Foundation Grant. This year, more tlian ever before, Notre Dame must receive strong financial support from the Alumni. 
In every section of the United States today, individual Catholic organizations are building needed facilities. Each of us are called upon to contribute to various parochial and diocesan cam­paigns—and countless others. Notre Dame men have a reputation for generosity and usually assume positions of leadership in all local fund raising drives for Catholic institutions. All of these projects are necessary and must continue. However, in consideration of the funds from the Ford Foundation, Notre Dame's great program for expansion should assume top priority for the contri­bution dollar of Alumni throughout the nation. We can and must not only raise our percentage of participation—but we must graciously make sacrificial gifts this year. 
I have two sons at Notre Dame now and hope to have a daughter at St. Mary's this Sep­tember. Like most Notre Dame Alunmi, one of my greatest desires in life was to have my sons attend Notre Dame. I appreciate the fact that Notre Dame is rewarding every student with the opportunity for greater knowledge—the opportunity for greater financial success—the opportunity for greater family life—and, most of all, the opportunity for greater moral responsibility and spirit­ual benefits. This heritage can only be continued by generous support from the Alumni in this crucial year of 1961. 
Best wishes from all the members of the Alumni Board. 
Sincerely, 
President 












