The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
IN THIS ISSUE: 

Clubs Progress in Placement 
(Page 43) 


"True and False Realism" 
— Prof. Staunton 
(Page 47) 

The Grotto of Our Lady 
Vol. 18 NOVEMBER, 1939 No. 2 


The Responsibility oF Catholic College Alumni 
(A n Editorial) 

Notre Dame leaderehip in the articulation of alumni thought and in the promotion of a broad alumni program has been recognized again in the election of your Alumni Secretary as president of the National Catholic Alumni Fedei-ation, succeeding Arthur J. Hughes, '11. 
So this message comes to you with editorial convic­tions augmented by an added sense of a general Catholic college alumni responsibility. 
In no other convention that I have attended has there been such a sti-ong, such a clear and such a unified pres­entation of Catholic thought on a problem of timely, vital importance. 
Theme and keynote of the ninth biennial convention of the Federation, held in New York City, November 25­29, was expressed in a statement by Most Rev. Francis J. Spellman, D.D., LL.D., '35: "I am sure that the profes­soi-s, students and alumni of Catholic universities and colleges as well as the Catholic people in general will welcome this opportunity to participate in the exposition of our Catholic conviction that religion in education is fundamental and essential; and that education without religion is anomalous, incomplete and inimical to relig­ious living." 
.A.t the convention were gathered speakers of the upper brackets of Catholic thought—among them our own Father O'Hara, Hon. Thomas Woodlock, Rev. Robert Gannon, SJ., Dr. Richard Purcell, Rev. Geoffrey O'Con­nell. Prof. Louis J. A. Mercier, Rev. Gei-ald Phelan, Paul McGuire, Rev. Wilfrid Parsons, S.J., Dr. Robert Pollock, Rev. Richard Gabel, Robert Speaight, Rev Dr. George Johnson, Hon. Edward S. Dore, and Rev. Francis Connell. Discussions were led by an equally able group of lay and clerical scholars. 
I hope that through all the channels of Catholic thought and culture in this countiy — the press, maga­zines, radio, study clubs, and pulpits—^you vrill hear the telling lessons of the convention driven to a conclusion that will see the fundamental truths for which the Church stands prevail again in American education. 
But the point of this editorial is the need, and the immediate need, for the realization by Catholic college alumni of their opportunitj' and their obligation to know these truths and to serve as a militant group for their promulgation. 
Here was a convention achie\'ing an intellectual plane and a formulated program of Catholic thought seldom equalled. Here was ammunition for an attack on the forces of secularization in education clearly outlined and traced in historj' and logic as the immediate threat to Amei-ican culture and tradition. 
-A.nd the big question of the convention was the dissem­ination of this vital information to the Catholic college alumni. 
developed alumni associations in the Catholic field. 
To us many other schools look for leadership in real­izing the possibilities inherent in this organization. 
Father O'Hara's talk on the continuation of spiritual relations ^vith alumni revealed that Notre Dame men have profited through the Religious Bulletin, through lay retreats, and through contact with many of the priests at at the University and on the mission band. 
Here in our laps now lies the opportunity to ser\-e as the spearhead for a Catholic cultural movement. 
Ninety alumni clubs, acting through members who will interest themselves in the content of this movement, against secularization of education to the exclusion of all religious training, can accomplish much in forming in ninety communities an intellectual bulwark. 
Ninety alumni clubs, and countless individuals out­side the clubs, thoroughly informed of this program, and possessed of the militant spirit of Catholic action to bring this program into other organizations, to combat error in the press, to lead study clubs in learning and teaching, can provide a force against which the forces of secular­ization, carefully entrenched and armored as they are, will not stand. 
Nor is this a project that is limited to our own Clubs. In several communities, Notre Dame men have already pointed the way to combining the intellectual power of all of the Catholic college men. This, in effect, is the pui-pose of the Federation. There is a strength in the unity of the graduates of our Catholic colleges, and the Catholic graduates of non - Catholic colleges, that is obviously greater than in the strength of any single association, or Club. 
The obligation that I would like to believe is distinctly ours, in the Catholic intellectual field, is, first of all, the perfecting of ourselves insofar as possible as a trained corps of militant, educated Catholics. And secondly, the sharing of our privileges of education and our fortune in organization with all of the other groups or individuals who can contribute to this program. 
There are problems distinctively Notre Dame's, which we, as alumni of Notre Dame, share solely through our own -Association. There is plenty of work for us in that sphere—^placement, promotion, spiritual, social, athletic functions, financial problems, etc. 
But the common background of Catholic intellectual training and the obligation for leadership that is true of the Catholic alumnus whether he be Gonzaga, Notre Dame or Catholic U., find their most forceful expression in a union, which can be achieved locally through the leadership of such groups as our Notre Dame Clubs, and nationally through the already existing Federation. 
The spotlight is on Notre Dame. For Notre Dame, as well as for the great purpose to be served, I am hopeful 
Notre Dame is recognized as having one of the best of the cooperation of Notre Dame men. 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This maKazine is published monthly from October to June, inclusive (except January), by the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame. Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1. 1939. at the Postoflice. Notre Dame. Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. 
JAMES E . AIIMSTRONC. 15. EJHor; WILUAM R. DOOLEY, 76, Managing Edilor 
Vol. 18. NOVEMBER. 1939 No. 2 
N.D. Clubs Progress In Placement Work 
New Vork, under John Balfe, and New Jer­
sey, under Harvey Rockwell, Show Concrete 
Accomplishments in Job-Getting Program. 
No, Jasper, a placement program through the Notre Dame clubs isn't something those funny fellows, the editors of the ALUMNUS, use to fill up space. Such a program is actually in operation; it lives, it breathes,, it is getting results. 
Witness the New York City Club and then witness the New Jersey Club. Or you might witness—and you 
—Blank-Sloller 
JOHN BALFE, '20 

probably will, in later issues this year—the Chicago Club or the Cleve­land Club, the St. Joe Valley Club 
(South Bend), the Indianapolis Club or the Greater Louisville Club. 
Take New York. (What was that crack?) The Board of Directors of the Alumni Association decided last spring that the attention of the Asso­ciation members would this year be centered on placement. But a year be­fore that, in March 1939, the New York Club, through John Balfe, '20, was operating effectively in place­ment. And in the calendar year of 1938 John and his placement commit­tee placed 17 boys. 
In 1939, John reports, the New York placement record shows the fol­lowing dazzling results to date: 
placements placements 2

January 4 July February 3 August 2 March 6 September 4 April 5 October (20th) _2 May 2 June .5 Total ..35 
How did John and his committee accomplish so much? That's your nat­ural question. Well, we have John's own answers here, and we'll give them to you in a minute, but we want to give you our own answer first: The success of the New York Club Place­ment Bureau is due, primarily, to John Balfe's contribution of talent, experience, time and eifort. Hours out of every week, day and night, he has given to this phase of Notre Dame activity, hours which he had to take out of his own business day, his home life and his numerous "extra­curricular" activities. 
As to the mechanics of the thing, John says: 
"In order to maintain a Placement Bureau, it is necessary that the chairman set up a regular business­like procedure in that he must set aside definite time to interview young fellows [John has specified an hour each day for that purpose]; have a definite information form (we have a regular placement application) and also a card file. 
"With this as a basis, it A\ill be necessary to assemble the various contacts that the chairman has, as well as those that the cooperating alumni may have. Then he has some place to send these- young fellows. Gradually by hard work, the alumni will become conscious of the existence of the Bureau and materially assist in its operation. All the fellows, of course, want to help, but carelessness prevents their cooperation in many instances." 
We asked John about employment advice to the seniors. And he came back with some fine points: 
"From the point of view of the un­dergraduates," he said, "there is con­siderable that could be done during the senior year in order to advise them how to seek employment. The first thing is what you might call common business courtesy. By that I mean that, when these job-hunters are advised to see a definite individu­al or concern, they should keep all 
HARVEY ROCKWELL, '34 
parties concerned advised of what transpired in the interview. Often, after you tell a young fellow to let you know what develops, in an inter­view, you never hear from him. Thus, the possible source of placement is blocked because it is difficult to call and ask John Doe whether Joe Blank, the Job-hunter, stopped in to see him. This carelessness leads to untold em­barrassment. 
"Another point to be stressed is that each job-hunter should write a letter of thanks to each man he has interviewed. I have seen definite in­stances where our boys received the preference because they had the in­telligence to acknowledge with thanks the time given them. 
"Practical business experience is, of course, very important and job-hunters should do everything they can to gain experience somehow, somewhere. Knowledge of steno­graphy is invaluable. Some boys feel, I know, that if they start in a busi­ness as a secretary they will remain forever in that capacity. This is a definite mistake. If a boy has the right stuff, stenography will be mere­ly a stepping-stone to advancement." 

New Jersey Club 
The New Jersey Club is going at the placement problem a little differ­ently, through Harvey P. Rockwell, Jr., '34, secretary of the club and chairman in charge of placement, but here again there is an active, work­ing, result-getting agency for the ben­efit of Notre Dame men. And here again there is a contribution, beyond all measure, of talent, experience, time and effort on the part of Har­

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
vey, an exceedingly busy young busi­
ness executive, and his conmiittee. 
Let Harvey tell the New Jersey story in his own encouraging words: 
"It was back in 1935 when the thought of employment aid first oc­curred to some of the members of the New Jersey Club. Some of the mem­bers had seen what other colleges were doing to assist their undergrad­uates and alumni along this line. In particular they were preparing print­ed forms by means of which students could present their qualifications in attractive and easily accessible form. 
"The Jersey Club took its next step in 1938 when a special commit­tee on unemployment was formed. After several meetings to formulate a policy the following points were de­cided as a basic plan. 
1.
 "The committee must be a means of aiding the members to obtain em­ployment by summing up the exper­ience of members who are in manag­erial positions and, thereby, know what appeals to those who hire em­ployees. 

2.
 "The Employment Bureau can be used to encourage members to be present at meetings for its services can be limited to meeting times and a few minutes can be set aside for employment problems before each meeting. (The Bureau will be careful of course, to maintain confidence con­cerning each individual.) 

3.
 "Since secretarial aid is not. within the means of the club, it seems impractical at the moment to main­tain a file of jobs available, or keep a list of jobs wanted. 




Placement Points 
1.
 In the nature of the program, and in view of limited time and personnel, the Alumni Office Place­ment Bureau must concentrate its efforts for the benefit of seniors to be graduated in June. 

2.
 The Placement Bureau will be glad to keep on file the names and records of alumni in need of work, but it cannot, unfortunately, offer such men any considerable encouragement. Experience has taught that any employment pro­cedure by way of the Alumni Of­fice is ordinarily, in the case of Notre Dame's widespread alumni, much too slow and uncertain for satisfactory results. (And, besides, the Alumni Office hears of very few job openings for alumni, de­spite the upturn in business.) 

3.
 Alumni who register with the 


Alumni Office Placement Bureau must accept the responsibility of verifying the registration at least once a month, by means of a post­card or otherwise. Unless a place­ment application is up-to-date it is useless. The Bureau cannot recom­mend a man in an urgent case— and most cases are urgent—^when it is not certain whether he is still "looking." 
4. Local alumni clubs offer by far the best available Notre Dame assistance to alumni in search of work. In the largest centers (as, for example, in New York, New Jersey, Cleveland, Chicago an d South Bend) special placement committees have been organized in the Notre Dame clubs. In other clubs, the officers can be depended upon to offer all possible assist­ance and advice. 
November, 1939 
4. "At the start, the policy will be one to give instructive aid to those desiring employment. As information of this nature is received, it will be published in the Echo. 
"In practice it worked out that the committee got in touch with all of the members desiring employment through the medium of the New Jersey Echo, the quarterly bulletin that goes to each member. A suitable form of qualification record was prepared and printed by offset which kept the cost at a minimum. 
"A copy of the industrial director­ies, such as Thomas Register, and the like, was consulted by the applicants in order to prepare a list of compan­ies in which they were interested. Wherever possible the name of an executive in these companies was de­termined in order that the letter might be routed through from the top. 
"After allowing for time to pre­pare the list, a meeting was held to discuss the preparation of a suitable letter to accompany the qualification record. Each man prepared his own letter and brought it for criticism by the group. In the discussion the mem­bers saw that an employer hires them because he feels he can make more money with them than without them. Each applicant, therefore, made an effort to learn something of the con­ditions that exist in the particular industry in which he wished to work and to recognize the problem or prob­lems of that industry. He then planned his letter to show the em­ployer that he was willing to try to help solve such a problem. 
"Other meetings were given over to a discussion of the return from the letters that had previously been sent out by the members. In these meetings considerable stress was laid on the personal interview. The ap­proach and introduction were planned. Arousing interest and desire was dis­cussed and finally the various meth­ods of asking for the job and making it easy for the employer to say yes. 
"These meetings were always very active and busy. The applicants car­ried out their part very enthusias­tically and rehearsed their parts carefully. They knew that they would benefit by the mistakes of others and that a mistake at this point could be corrected and would not cost them a job. 
"Fnally we were very happy to find that it was not long before the num­ber of applicants dwindled because they joined the ranks of the em­ployed." 
As we said, it lives, it breathes! Placement can be done! Conditions vary from club to club, of course, but all clubs can do something. More about all this later. Cheerio! 

November. 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 


UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS « 
BACTERIOLOGISTS AT N. D. 
Three phases of modem bacteriol­ogical development will be drawn to­gether in a two-day meeting of emi­nent bacteriologists at Notre Dame on Nov. 16 and 17. 
Micro-technique, germ-free methods and the problem of cross infection will constitute the three fold charac­ter of the colloquium. For the iirst time, men eminent in each of these fields will meet togther to coordinate and report their research findings through a series of formal papers, panel discussions, apparatus demon­strations and motion pictures. Dem­onstrations of apparatus, ranging from tiny needle-like instruments to the large cylindrical steel and chrom­ium cages of the miniature germ-free world created in the Notre Dame 
J. A. REVXIERS, '30 

laboratories by Professor James A. Eeyniers, '30, will play a prominent part in the sessions. 
It is because Notre Dame's re­search program in bacteriology has been devoted to a study of techniques in those basic fields of bacteriological experiments that the coming colloqui­um is made possible. 
The first day's meetings will be de­voted to micrurgy and its applica­tions, with the following participat­ing: 
Dr. Robert Chambers of New York University, noted for his invention and development of delicate instru­ments used in working with living material under a microscope; Dr. Earl M. Hildebrand, of Cornell Uni­versity, Ithaca, New York, well-known for his studies of bacterial diseases of plants and for his success in isolating single bacterial cells; and Professor Reyniers, whose work in the development of mechanical meth­ods led to his success in creating a germ-free environment, wherein germ-less plants and animals are produced for experimental purposes. 
On the second day a division of ses­sions will deal with the problem of prevention of contamination, with em­phasis on germ-free techniques. Dr. Rudolph Glaser, of the Rockefeller Institute, Princeton, whose germ-free technique has been concerned chiefly with single cell life, will present a paper, as will Dr. Oram Woolpert and Dr. Paul Hudson, both of Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio. Dr. Woolpert is noted for his germ-free experiments on animal embryos in utero. 
Also participating in this group will be Dr. Philip R. White, plant physiologist of the Rockefeller Insti-• tute, Princeton, and Professor Reyn­iers. Dr. White's work in the growth of undifferentiated plant tissues has won wide scientific attention. His ex­periments led him to success in grow­ing, for example, a root of a plant and keeping it alive as a root, par­allelling with plant tissues the work of Dr. Alexis Carrell in animal tis­sues, whereby the latter is keeping a chicken heart alive indefinitely. 
Control of cross-infection among limited populations will be the theme of the final group of sessions. Re­ports on the practical results ob­tained from two recent systems de­signed to prevent cross-infection will feature this phase of the conference. Now in use in the Cradle, famous Evanston, Illinois, infant orphanage, these tivo systems consist of the baby cubicles, designed by Professor Rey­niers at Notre Dame, and of the ul­traviolet barriers, as developed by Dr. William F. Wells, of the Phipps Institute in Philadelphia. Both Dr. Wells and Professor Reyniers will contribute papers during these ses­sions, and Dr. Iwan Rosenstem, clin­ical director of the Cradle, will re­port on the actual results he has ob­served at the Evanston institution. Onetime associate of Dr. Finkelstein in the famous pediatric clinic in Berlin, Dr. Rosenstem is an expert on the problem of cross infection. 
Two motion pictures will high-light the t\vo-day meeting. The first of these, to be presented by Dr. M. J. Kopac of New York University, will show actual pictures taken through a microscope, revealing some of the newest instruments developed by Dr. Chambers for use on single cell life. The second picture will be in colors and will show the actual work that has been in progress at the Cradle with the new units for prevention of air-borne infection. 

ON IROQUOIS 
Notre Dame had her own interest in the S. S. Iroquois, recently famed as the alleged objective of German raiders, because Rev. Patrick J. Car­roll, C.S.C, editor of The Ave Maria, was aboard the ship on its eventful trip, together with his niece. Miss 
FATHER CARROLL 

May Carroll, a nurse in the Notre Dame student infirmary. Both of them had spent the summer in Ire­land. Father Carroll reported upon returning to the campus that severe storms had bothered the passengers on the heavily-laden boat far more than the frightening reports about submarines. 
V 


DECENCY IN PRINT 
The Notre Dame Student Commit­tee for Decency - in - Print has begun its second year of activity with the announcement that 35,000 more "cop­ies of the No Smut pamphlet, so widely popular last year, are to be printed. Orders for the pamphlet have continued to come in: 200 were recently sent to Honolulu and the Antwerp library in Detroit placed the largest single order thus far—5,000. 
A new angle this year is the ad­vertising of No Smut by radio. A short dramatic skit will be recorded and transcriptions of this will be sent to whatever stations will cooperate. 

CARDINAL MUNDELEIN 
The news of the death of George Cardinal Mundelein of Chicago was received -ivith special sadness at No­tre Dame because the Cardinal had found much time out of a busy life to concern himself actively with the affairs of the University. He partici­pated in the Diamond Jubilee celebra­tion in 1917 and was one of the chief figures at the Philippine Convocation on December 9, 1935, wherein he in­troduced President Roosevelt. 
Upon hearing of the Cardinal's sudden death, Father O'Hara, presi­dent of the University, dispatched the following message: "I am profoundly moved at the sad news that has just come to us. I had a delightful visit with His Eminence only t\vo weeks ago and he seemed in excellent health and spirits. We are consoled that he has gone to a great reward and we find deep satisfaction in the thought that his spiritual work enhanced his value as a citizen. Chicago is a much better and a much greater city for the influence of Cardinal Mundelein and the whole nation should be grateful for his wise council in the troubled times through which he lived." 
V WASHINGTON HALL The touring Jitney Players, one of last year's best-liked attractions, opened the 1938-39 Washington Hall season on November 2 with a presen­tatio"n of George M. Cohan's well-seasoned melodramatic farce, "Seven Keys to Baldpate." Dr. Francis G. Benedict was to lecture a week later on "The Science and Art of Decep­tion." Judge Malcolm K. Hatfield, '27, of the Probate Court in St. Joseph, Michigan, is to give a series of lec­tures this year to students in Law and Sociology. E. Allison Peers, pro­fessor of Spanish in the University of Liverpool, will give a lecture series on Spain and Dr. Alceu Amaroso Lima, Brazilian critic and philoso­pher, will lecture in the second semes­ter. 
V 
FOUNDER'S DAY 
The arrival of Father Edward Sorin, C.S.C, and the band of six Brothers was recalled on October 13 with the annual Founder's Day holi­day. October 13 marks, of course, not the founding of the University, but the feast of St. Edward, patron of the founder. 
Father John F. O'Hara, president of the University, celebrated the Founder's Day Mass, assisted by Father Hugh O'Donnell, vice-presi­dent, as deacon, and Eev. Charles Miltner, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, sub-deacon. Father Francis J. Wenninger, dean of the College of Science, was master of ceremonies and Father J. Leonard Carrico, director of studies, preached on the steadfast faith of Father Sorin. 
FRESHMAN DIES Within two weeks after the open­ing of school, the campus was sad­dened by the death of Arthur Tracy, freshman from Lackawanna, New York, who had been ill for only a few 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
days. A heroic and fervent soul, Art left a profound impression behind him on the campus. His death oc­curred in the midst of the annual student mission, conducted this year by Father Frederick Schulte, '27. 
DEBATE STARTS Notre Dame debaters, both varsity and interhall, will this year use this question for argument: "Resolved: That the United States should follow a policy of strict isolation against all 
PROFESSOR COYNE 
nations outside the western hemis­phere involved in international or civil conflict." 
Professor William J. Coyne, '27, director of debating, has announced November, 1939 

that try-outs for the varsity debate team will be held in mid-November. 

SUPREME KNIGHT COMING 

Francis P. Matthews, K.S.G., Oma­ha, newly-elected supreme knight of the Knights of Columbus, will be the special guest and give the principal address at the banquet following the third-degree initiation of Notre Dame Council Knights of Columbus on De­cember 10. Timothy P. Galvin, '16, Hammond, Indiana, and Ray T. Mil­ler, '14, Cleveland, supreme directors of the K. of C, have also been asked to be present. Gilbert E. Powell, Indi­ana state deputy, will attend. 
The class to be initiated on Decem­ber 10 will be known as the "Francis 
P. Matthews class." Special invita­tions to the ceremony have been sent to all Knights of Columbus in Indi­ana, southern Michigan and the Chi­cago district. All K. of C. will, of course, be welcome. 
Joseph P. Gerwe, '40, Minneapolis, is general chairman of the committee which will welcome Mr. Matthews on this occasion, which will mark the first visit of a supreme knight to the Notre Dame council in an official capacity. Assisting Mr. Gerwe with the arrangements are Eli Abraham, '34, local district deputy, and Tim­othy R. King, '37, Law '40, Niles, Ohio, grand knight at Notre Dame. 
eiTT/ 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
FOR THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
(Contributions enteral from Sept. 22 to Oct. 2G. inclusive) 
Leo T. Dark. New York City-_S 6.00 Daniel Depocco. Moncssen. Pa.- 2.00 
_ 

L. J. Gemon. Detroit-_ 25.00 
_ Honry N. Hart. ChicaKO _ 25.00 Earl Holloway, South Bend _ 9.00 
Thos. H. Kcesan. Chicatn) _ 10.00 Michael Kovoch. South Bend^. _ -1.80 Joseph H. Kraker. *29, Akron, 0 _ _ 5.00 Clarence Kaiser. *25, Royal Oak, Mich.-_ 2.00 Frederic R. KclloKff. *34. Rock Springs, Wyo— _ 6.00 Armand W. KelloKK. '35, Rock Springs, Wye-- 5.00 Benjamin Mandel, New York City _ 9.00 Steve Nyikos, '21. South Bend - 9.00 Joseph Sieracki, South Bend \ - 4.80 August Socms, South Bend-_ 4.80 Victor J. Schmoll, Lancaster, Pa _ 6.00 Maurice E. Stafford. New Y'ork City_ . 2.00 Deon Sutton, '31, Detroit . 6.00 Julius Toth, South Bend _ 4.80 
F. W. Gillies. East ChicaRO, Ind.- 25.00 
Previous Total 
Grand Total -$268,052.16 
/^e^ X ^ 'ci^A.<rj,c. 
True and False Realism 
In Lewis Carroll's Through the Looking-Glass, that immortal classic in which children enjoy the story and wise adults enjoy the penetrating satire on human pretences and make-believe, there is a character known as Humpty-Dumpty, who is both literal­ly and in the slang sense of the word, an egg. To Humpty-Dumpty a word has no meaning which he is bound to respect. "When / use a word," Hump­ty Dumpty said in a rather scornful tone, "it means just what I choose it to mean, neither more nor less." 
Humpty Dumpties are numerous in our present time. They talk of free love and birth control and broad­mindedness and advanced thought when they mean something quite dif­ferent from the actual meaning of these words. If we mildly object to having base things bedecked with honorable titles, such writers say 
•with candor, "Ah, but we are using the word with a special meaning." "The question is," said Alice, "wheth­er you can make words mean so many diiferent things."—"The question is," said Humpty Dumpty, "which is to be master—that's all." 
Misleading Use 

It is on a particular instance of this misleading use of respectable words to support some false assump­tion that I wish, as a professor of English literature, to write briefly. The word REALISM has a long and honorable history both in the field of philosophy and in that of literature. Realism in philosophy has for cen­turies meant that philosophy opposed both to idealism, the doctrine which would make man a mere dreamer in a world of shadows; and to material­ism, the doctrine which would make man a mere shadow in a world of dead facts. Realism in the philo­sophic sense has stood for the dignity of man as a real and living force in a real and living world; a world in which even matter receives actual ex­istence only because it receives the 
• "Imitation in art can represent first, thinss as they were or are: second, thines as they \vere or are said to be: or (third) thinss as they ouKht to be." Aristotle. Poetics, 1460 b, 10-11. Here we have exactly the distinction now made between (I) realistic (2) classical and (3) romantic writing. For the text see Atkins: Literary Criticism in Antiquity: Vol. 1, pase 79. 
By Henry C F. Staunton Professor of Enslish 

A Distinction Is Drawn Between 
Real Realism and the Realism That 
Parades Only the Lower Life 
impression of a divine thought and purpose. In the world of literature Realism has a no less honorable his­tory. Since the time of Aristotle* the distinction has been drawn between those who write about human life as it actually is; and those who write of human life as they think it should or might be. The true Realist tries to keep faithfully to the proportion in real life of good and evil, sorrow and joy, success and failure, neither ideal­izing conditions as they are found nor sinking to the equally false ex­treme of pessimism. 
Art of Selection 

It is true that every writer makes use of what is termed art: that is, he selects from the vast number of facts, of scenes, of characters at his dis­posal those which will best embody his idea and best illustrate his pur­pose. But even so, he is not at lib­erty if he ^vishes to remain a realistic writer, to alter the true relations and proportions found in nature in such a way as to produce an unreal world. He may wish to ivrite about a blind man, but he has no right to write a book in which all the characters are blind in a world where there is no light. He may wish to wTite about a Saint, but he has no right to ignore the fact that some peo­ple • are not saints. He may wish to ^rate about a scoundrel, but he has no right to lay his scene in a world where everybody is a scoundrel. A truly realistic book is a book in which life is described as it actually is; in which wise men and fools, good men and bad, fortunate men and unfortu­nate, appear in the actual proportions proper to .a given society or a given age. Even in the description of an individual character he must keep his head: there are few indeed who have not sinned, fewer perhaps who are all bad; none who are wholly foolish or wholly wise. What is known as "ro­manticism" may picture an ideal world or a hell on earth; a Utopia which suits better than the real world the purposes of the author. But real­ism must give us a cross section of life as it really is. 
But now when we hear of a book as "realistic" it may mean that it is not realistic at all in the historical sense, but that the word denotes a book in which people intellectually and morally stunted or deformed move endlessly in an atmosphere of filth, pessimism, poverty, disease, sor­row, agony, and gloom. The few gleams of light serve only to make the darkness visible; to intensify our sense of the sordidness, the meaning­lessness, and the hopelessness of life. 
Take one of the best written of such books. The whole theme of Gone with the Wind might be briefly summarized as follows: Scarlett O'Hara tries hopelessly to win the love of a man. When that man has married her best friend she tries un­ceasingly to win him to herself and to break up the marriage. She succeeds. The husband's life is ruined. The friend dies in childbirth, in pain and sorrow. Scarlett O'Hara is already married to another man: Rhett But­ler. She makes his life a hell. When he has left her and gone off to a life of wretchedness she turns and wajits him back, but without avail. She is left to a life of wretchedness herself, and on this pleasant note the action ends. The background of the book is the darker side of the reconstruction times — everywhere gloom, despair, disorder, and trouble.' And this is called "realism." In truth it is as romantic as the wildest of fairy stor­ies; only instead of distilled sweet­ness we have distilled bitterness. Life is a complex of' good and evil, of pleasure and pain, of sweetness and bitterness, in which we endure the evil to win the good, and win it. In spite of Nietsche, in actual life there is always far more good than evil. Not only in theory, but by the all but unanimous decision of those who live. Life is worth living. 
"Whatever crazy sorrow saith No soul that draws a human breath Hath ever truly longed for death." 
But are there not such women as Scarlett O'Hara? No doubt; and be­side them, in the next house, women like Florence Nightingale. If a writ­er wishes to be realistic, he will give among both sexes a normal mixture of both kinds, the evil and the good. 
(Continued on Page SI) 

STUDENT NOTES 
(Don Foskett, 'iO, the writer of "Student Notes" this month, is the present managing editor of the "Scho­lastic," after serving last year as the sports editor of the satne journal and for tivo years on the "Dome" staff. A resident of East Weymouth, Massa­chusetts, Don is a jnember of the Bos­ton Club and aji English viajor.) 
STUDENT TRIP 

Cleveland was taken by storm on the week-end of October 21, as 1,000 loyal Irish from Notre Dame swarmed into the Lake City for the annual battle between Elmer Layden's lads and Navy's talented tars. It was a typical student trip. The first student special train left the steam plant sid­ing at midnight on Friday with 500 hilarious rooters aboard, and was fol­lowed at 7 o'clock on Saturday morn­ing by another train carrying 200 more students, including Joe Casa­santa and his Notre Dame band. Sev­eral of the braver souls swallowed their pride in the face of economic difficulties and got off to an early start Friday noon via bus, convoyed by hitchhikers and the campus aris­tocracy who drove their own cars. 
We didn't make the trip, preferring to thrill to Lee Douglas' dramatic guess - by - guess report direct from South Bend. But our roving reporter, faithful to his trust, returned to the campus with a few choice observa­tions, not the least of which is the news that genial Joseph Casasanta proved himself something of a bridge expert on the trip East. It seems a few of the campus slickers in the band saw a rare chance to get even with Joe for those cold afternoon drills on Brownson Field, so they asked him to sit in at a friendly game of bridge. Gullible Joe sat down and the lads licked their chops in anticipation of the sarcasm they would heap on poor Joe at every fu­ture opportunity. The play began. After the first rubber the gloaters-to­be were mildly surprised; after the second they were amazed; after the third one of them decided he had to study "Distributive Justice" for an 8 o'clock Monday class, while another slinked down the aisle to polish his trombone. Joe's partner stared at the scorecard and muttered something about miracles. Joe just lit a Casa­santa stogie, sprawled back in his seat, and grinned. 
As usual the Notre Dame band drew a big hand. Led onto the field by Dnmi Major Stan Litizzette, Help­er, Utah, the niftiest little marshal 
BY DON FOSKETT. '40 
we've seen in some time, the Irish bandsmen put on one of their best shows. Continuing the excellent work of the Southern Methodist game, they swung "Tiger Rag" and "Swinging the Ingots" to perfection. The amaz­ing thing about this Notre Dame band is the incredible manner in which all 100 pieces coordinate to render numbers composed for much smaller units. 
One of the unexpected events of the day was Clashmore Mike's com­plete rout of Billy, the Navy goat. We've seen cocky little Mike put up some great battles in the local sta­dium, but according to eyewitnesses, he outdid himself at the Na^Y game. Prior to his latest victory, Mike had listed among his victims a rather listless Pitt Panther and the heavily-favored Army mule. The set-to with Drake's drooling bulldog, two years ago, was no contest. In Cleveland, Mike would have had another knock­out notch in his favorite hambone had it not been for the intercession of Head Cheer Leader Jerry Flynn, Rochester, New York, who pulled Mike back into a neutral comer as Na\'y Bill was hanging on the ropes. Sudden victory must have gone to Mike's head for he refused to do his hurdle trick until the crowd gave him a hand. 
SOUTHERN SWING 
Well, it had to come! We noticed the first sinister evidences of sub­versive activity when Billy Dunham, Perth Amboy, New Jersey, and his Four Horsemen of Swing "jived" for the audience at the Monogram Ab­surdities a few years back. Then Joe Casasanta got into the spirit of things and made "Tiger Rag" and "St. Louis Blues" a regular part of the band's repertoire instead of an occasional daring experiment. But this year at the Southern Methodist game swing came into its own at Notre Dame •\\ith the first appear­ance here of the famed S.M.U. swing band. Not only were the Mustang swingsters wonderful musicians, but they proved themselves the finest of sportsmen by serenading the Notre Dame student section for a full half hour after their team had lost a heartbreaker to the Irish, 20-19. The Mustangs had a hot trumpeter that made local swing fans forget about Louie Armstrong and Clyde McCoy. And the way in which the entire 
S.M.U. contingent, cheerleaders and all, trooped over to exchange cheers \vith the Notre Dame cheering sec­tion after the game made a tremend­ous hit with the student body. 
NEW DEAL 
A streamlined 1939-40 Notre Dame Scholastic rolled off the presses this fall and was very well received by faculty and students alike. Probably the most noticeable change this year is in the cover. The traditional news picture has been returned to the cov­er, but has been augmented by a new type of "teaser" to bring the reader's attention to the more important stor­ies on the inside. Headlines have been eliminated as much as possible this year and stories are run directly from one colunm to another, instead of being continued somewhere in the back of the magazine. Both of these changes make for much easier read­ing. 
Assisting him this year Editor-in­chief Bill Fay, Mt. Lebanon, Penn­sylvania, has: Don Foskett, E. Wey­mouth, Massachusetts, managing edi­tor; Bill McGowan, Oakville Connec­ticut, news editor; Jim Newland, Washington, Indiana, sports editor; Frank Wemhoff, Fort Wayne, Indi­ana, literary editor; Bill Kelleher, Lorain, Ohio, and Dick Metzger, Rockville Center, New York, art edi­tors. Father Cornelius Laskowski, is the Scholastic's new faculty adviser. 
Father John Cavanaugh, former prefect of reliigion, now assistant provincial, is the new chairman of the Board of Publications, succeeding Father Lawrence Broughal. Also on the board are Father Laskowski, Father Leo L. Ward, who remains as Scrip adviser; Father Charles Carey, Dome adviser, and Thomas J. Barry, manager of the student publications and director of general publicity. 
HERE AND THERE 
There are evil rumors of revolution in the Old Dominion Club. A short time ago the boys from Virginia de­cided to raffle a ticket entitling one of their number to a free trip to the Navy game. Came the day of the drawing and, as head kingfish of the club, Prexy Paul Morrison, Lynch­burg, Virginia, was asked by the oth­er members to draw the lucky name. But conscientious Paul declined, since the strictest impartiality is one of the guiding rules of the Morrison regime. So the unwelcome task fell upon the head of a freshman, as usu­al, who proceeded with trembling hand to draw forth the fateful slip from the Morrison fedora. A\Tien said freshie looked at his grab he could hardly believe what he saw, for the slip said "Paul Morrison." Inter­viewed on his way to the Navy game Prexy Paul reluctantly admitted he was seriously considering a raffle for the Army trip in an effort to in­
(Continued on Pace 58) 

Veterans Group Is NOTRE DAME BOOKS . . . 
Proposed 
Names and Records of Service Men Needed 

Many ideals that sent Americans to war in 1917 seem to have been lost or frustrated. But those ideals which dictated the participation of more than 2,000 Notre Dame men— a staggering percentage of the total in that period—are still basic, still alive. 
Nowhere has this been more evi­dent than in the small group which gathered in conjunction with the re­cent convention of the American Leg­ion in Chicago. 
As an outgrowth of that meeting has come the suggestion, from sev­eral sources, that a definite organiza­tion of Notre Dame men who were in the service be launched to retain this distinctive heritage. 
Nowhere in Notre Dame literature are there more beautiful passages than in the letters from the front re­printed in the Scholastics of the War years; in the poems of the late Fath­er Charles O'Donnell; in the sermons of the late Father John Cavanaugh. 
On the campus today there is a Military Club, dedicated among other purposes to the study of Notre Dame records of participation in war. 
To this club the ALUM.VUS is pro­posing the research necessary to es­tablish a list of those Notre Dame men who served in any branch of the service in the World War. 
It would help if such alumni would send in proper identification of their own War record, together with the names of other N. D. men known by them to have been in service. 
The Alumni Office has just for­warded to Alexander WooUcott a copy of a letter written in 1918 from Paris, the office of the Stars and Stripes, by Stuart Carroll, '22, to Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, fhen president of the University. It con­tains a detailed story of the death of Joyce Kilmer, together with a copy of Kilmer's "Rouge Bouquet." The story is given as reported to Carroll by a man sent to cover it by the Stars and Stripes. The reporter was Sergeant Alexander WooUcott. 
Of such rich texture is the history of Notre Dame in the World War. 
Canonical Procedure in Matrimonial 
Cases—^William J. Doheny, C.S.C, J.U.D., 725 pp. $8.00 (Bruce & Co. Milwaukee, 1938.) 
Practical Manual in Marriage Cases ­
— William J. Doheny, C.S.C, J.U.D., 304 pp. $3.50 (Bi-uce & Co. 1938.) 
To properly effectuate the "Instruc­tion to be Observed by Diocesan Trib­unals in the Settlement of Cases Dealing with the Nullity of Mar­riage" which was issued by the Sacred Congregation of the Sacra­ments in 1936 it was necessary that an American commentary be written in explanation of this sacred Instruc­tion. 
The Very Reverend William J. Do­heny, C.S.C, who satisfied this need for a definitive commentary in his two books, was preeminently qualified to perform the necessary task. 
He has been a student of canon law, and is at present an advocate and procurator of the Tribunal of the Signatura Apostolica and of the Sacred Roman Rota. He is the former superior of the Holy Cross Interna­tional College, in Rome, and at pres­ent is the superior of the Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C. His li­cense to practice before the Sacred Roman Rota, qualifies him as one of the very few, if not the only, Amer­ican presently authorized to practice before this high ecclesiastical trib­unal. 
His experience with the Rotal pro­cedure stood him in great stead in the preparation of these two books since the Instruction substantially followed the procedure of the Rota, and was issued to make uniform the procedure in marriage cases through­out the world and to make it conform to that of the Rota. The first volume. 
Canonical Procedures iyt Matrimonial Cases, contains a detailed commen­tary and exposition of each of the 240 .Articles of the Instruction. The re­maining half of the book contains re­ports of actual cases ajudicated by the canonical courts. These interest­ing reports are grouped according to the alleged ground for the anullment. 
The second volume, a Practical Manual in Marriage Cases, contains the complete text of the Articles of Instruction, in both Latin and Eng­lish (set up on opposite pages). Fol­lowing this is a suggested plan of procedure with suggested forms of the divers papers to be used in such cases. 'This volume would appear to be indispensible to any one engaged in trials of this nature for the forins alone s^em invaluable. 
Aside from the timeliness of these volumes as commentaries on the new Instructions, they are most important at this time of easy divorce. In the first and larger volume. Catholics can see the Church's position as against the malicious and altogether false charge that the Catholic Church sanc­tions divorce through the operation of its annulment process. The inter­esting insight into the laws of the Church concerning marriage gained from reading these volumes would adequately repay the lay reader. The Catholic lawyer will find considerable use for these volimies in the course of his professional duties. Besides this he will find them interesting bases for a comparative law study. 
—JAJIES J. KEARNEY, '31 

God in an Irish Kitchen, by Leo Richard Ward. New York: Sheed and Ward: $2.50. 
Father Leo Richard Ward of Notre Dame went to Ireland for just a while, but he saw^ it and understood it as few men have ever before. He walked among the people and he talked and stayed with them. In the simplest, deepest way, their hearts and souls were turned out to him. And into this rich book he put all that was given him so willingly. Now­here there is no romantic veiling, no golden dreaming, no sentimental dec­oration; here there is powerful, lovely realness, like the land by the sea it­self, like the men in the rocky fields, like the hills and mountains rising, and like. prayers falling before the fire. 
You meet the Lannons of Galway City and move through the streets of the town. You visit in the Clad­dagh houses, you cross to Connemara, you stop in the fisherman's cottage, and you try many more places where good people live finely; they haven't much, but they do have plenteous re­gard for their natures and for the im­portance of all good men. You come to Clare Island and Achill; and, at the last to Croagh Patrick and Lough Derg. You are made known to the O'Malleys, to "the children of Grana Uaile," and you find Peter Jrmmie in his land. Peter Jimmie is worth, hav­ing in full: ' ' . '\ ­
"He stands up straight, this king of a bog, his hands behind him, white patches of sidebum on him, a crease or ring making a kind of circle from the lobes of his nose past the ends of his mouth and closing up at his chin." You hear, too, of holy Matt Talbot of Dublin, and it is said that there 
(Continued on Paire 38) 

SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI » » 
DR. EDWARD N. ANDERSON, '22, known at Notre Dame and every­where else as Eddie Anderson, was a star end and captain of the Notre Dame football team which, in 1921, lost a fierce hattle to Iowa, 10-7. Thus was ended an Irish winning record which had persisted through 20 games. 
In the s«-iftly-tuming tides of time and fortune, 1939 finds this same Ed­die Anderson still involved in lowa-
DR. EDWARD N . ANDERSON 
Notre Dame gridiron warfare but this time as head coach of an Iowa team as it prepares to meet Notre Dame in Iowa City on November 11 in the second battle between the two schools. 
Notre Dame, as this is written, is riding on top of an all-victory season. Iowa, under Eddie Anderson, has shown consistent strength and is one of the ranking teams in the Big Ten. Will history repeat itself? You guess. 
When Eddie finished at Notre Dame in 1922 he went back to his native Iowa as coach at Columbia College (now Loras), Dubuque. In 1925 he transferred to DePaul Uni­versity, Chicago, and remained there through 1931, completing meanwhile his medical education, with special­ization in eye, ear, nose and throat. In 1933 he became head coach at Holy Cross College, Worcester, Mas­sachusetts and, when he left there for Iowa after six seasons, left be-Mnd the sensational record of 47 vic­tories, seven losses and four ties. His 1935 and 1937 teams were unde­feated. 
Eddie is married and the father of three sons. 
• 
HOWARD P. BEECHINOR is president of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit and has been since December 5 of last year. Since then, as readers of the ALUMNTJS know, the Detroit Club has even outdone its previous notable record of accomplishment. 
There was the Rockne Memorial Fund campaign; the Detroit Club was one of the topnotchers among the clubs in that. Or the campaign to make Elmer Layden head coach of the All-Stars last August; again, the Detroit Club did a lion's share of the club work. And there -was the magnificent program to raise funds for the projected trip of David Van Wallace to Lourdes, in which the De-
Moffett 
HOWARD F . BEECHINOR 
troit Club did heroic service. More recently, a splendid boat trip from Detroit to Cleveland was arranged by the Detroit Club for the Navy game. 
There must be answers to such a program — and that on top of the regular schedule of club meetings, dinners, dances, etc. The biggest an­swer, as all members of the Detroit Club will agree, is Howard BeecWn­or. Howard's devotion, sacrifice and slavish hard -work, coupled -with more of the same on the part of his co­workers among the Notre Dame men of Detroit, have made possible such a remarkable record. 
Howard was at Notre Dame in 1902-03 and later studied law at the University of Michigan. From 1909 until 1929 he traveled for H. R. Mallinson & Co., silk manufacturer. He was associated with Walter J. Fahy & Co., New York City broker, before he came to Detroit in 1932 as a special agent for the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company. 
Baseball, in w^hich he participated as a semi-pro player, and golf are two of Howard's big likes. He is a member of the Dearborn Country Club of Detroit. He has seven broth­ers, of whom Herbert and Robert at­tended Notre Dame, and three sis­ters. 
LOUIS F. BUCKLEY is a faith­ful man. All during the 11 years since his class of 1928 was gradu­ated on a June afternoon he has been its secretarj'. Month after month through all the 11 years his ener­getic pen has produced, or inspired his classmates to produce, some of the best news in the ALUSINUS. And the ALUMNUS is grateful and so are his classmates. This is one way of saying so. 
Louis Buckley is a brilliant man. Since September, 1929, he has been a member of the Economics faculty at Notre Dame and his classes, as 
LOUIS F . BUCKLEY 

well as his outside lectures and writ­ings, have been able and popular. 
A master's degree from Notre Dame in 1930 was the beginning for further graduate work at Illinois (summer of 1933) and at Wisconsin (summers of 1934 and 1935 and the entire academic year of 1937-38). In consequence, a doctor's degree is not too far off. Last year the Uni­versity lent Professor Buckley to the Social Securities Board for special work as an economic analyst in Washington, D.C. This year he is again a teacher on the campus. 
Louis Buckley is an active man. To the burden of the class secretary­ship he has added these jobs: grand knight of Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, 1929-30; dis­trict deputy, K. of C. 1931-32; presi­dent, Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, 1936-37. And many more; our space is limited. 
Louis Buckley is a married man— to the former Pauline Christiansen of Mishawaka and St. Mary's. They and Paula, seven years old, have a special-welcome for the class of '28 at 908 East Cedar Street, South Bend 
N. D. Vets Meet in Chicago 
Father M. J. Walsh Is Special Guest at Dinner of Legionaires 
Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C, professor of history and former pres­ident of the University and a chap­lain in the World War, was the guest of honor on September 25 at the din­ner gathering of Notre Dame veter­ans of the World War held in con­junction with the American Legion national convention in Chicago. The Notre Dame Club of Chicago spon­sored the dinner and Austin McNich­ols was in general charge of it. Paul Fogarty was toastmaster. Joseph Flynn furnished the entertainment. 
"Father Walsh," -Austin reports, "gave one of the finest talks ever given to a Notre Dame gathering. All those who were privileged to hear Father Walsh acclaimed the talk the best one they ever heard Mes­sages were read from more than 100 who could not make the convention." 
Among the guests at the dinner were Raymond J. Kelly, who took time out of his campaign for the na­tional commandership of the Legion to attend, and Lewis J. Murphy, na­tional commander of the Disabled Veterans of the World War. Robert 
B. Riordan, registrar, and James E. Ai-mstrong, alumni secretary, were present from the University. 
"Some of the out-of-town guests," says Austin, "were Ernest P. LaJoie, Charles P. Maloney, Harry Kelly, Joseph McGlynn, Sherwood Dixon, Edward J. Dundon, Bernard J. VoU, Charlie Grimes and Charles Vaughan. Col. Samuel H. Keeler presented etchings of Lincoln's Gettysburg Ad­dress to alumni belonging to Amer­ican Legion posts." 
TRUE AND FALSE "REALISM'—Continued from pase 47 
The devil makes a lot of noise, but does anyone doubt that, even in a decadent period (such as the realists think our own) the good outnumber the bad; that even in the villain of the piece the good would be in the ascendent, were it not for the weak­ness of the flesh? Who of you who read can honestly say that he has found the world otherwise? And the serious indictment of the so-called "realistic" literature is that it breaks down our faith in our fellow-men; it sets us looking for bad motives where charity is called for; it weakens our own resistance to evil by setting up in us a contempt for our own human­ity, a feeling that to be decent is to be unreal. 
But it may be said, to cure an evil you must isolate it: to set filth and wickedness in its true colors you must show it in all its naked loathesome­ness. Granted that this is so, you must not call your book realistic, i.e., true to life. It is really romantic, i.e., a suppositious simplification of life in the interests of a purpose. And even from this point of view, the task is better done in other ways. Who will claim that Willa Gather's Death Comes to the Archbishop is not a realistic book? Beside the saintly fig­ure of Bishop Latour we have, it is true, the historic portrait of Padre 
Martinez of Taos; the vices of this last only bring into stronger relief the virtues of the hero, and the good in the brawny Mexican is presented together with the bad. We rise from a reading of this last named book vivified, inspired, and encouraged: we rise from Gone With the Wind with a feeling of bafflement, discourage­ment, and cjmicism. 
And I have purposely taken Gone With the Wind as my example be­cause the book is by no means bad of its kind. Tn an article in the Atlantic Monthly, widely read and reprinted in the Readers' Digest, Professor Howard Mumford Jones of the Uni­versity of Michigan expressed the re­bellion which most of us feel against the flood of Freudian and decadent books which, dignified by the name of of realistic, has been pouring from the presses of our publishers in re­cent years. Margaret Mitchell's book by no means belongs to this class. But no more than these is it a truly real­istic boook. And I think it is time that we resent, and' resent emphati­cally, the attempt to lower the dig­nity of human life by calling books which emphasize miseTy and deprav­ity "realistic," and stigmatizing as "idealistic" books which strive be­tween the opposites of vice and vir­tue, ^vretchedness and the joy of liv­ing, to keep the balance equable and 
true. 
Not long ago we tired of the at­tempt to popularize indecency in the movies. The League of Decency, and similar movements set up by sim­ilar groups representative of every creed and class throughout the land, brought a healthier atmosphere and a power for good to the film and to the screen. We need a similar movement among readers. We need a protest against the idea that married life is bounded on every side by divorce; that business is normally maintained by greed and trickery; that political life is inevitably motivated by "graft"; that religion is usually hypocrisy and philanthropy self-advertisement; that immorality is more interesting than morality; and that this point of view is the real or realistic view of life. If such a protest is initiated it wiU not lack supporters; and Humpty Dumpty and his talk of "realism" will have a bad and a well deserved fall. 
ARCHITEQURE PROFESSOR 
A winner of the coveted Paris Prize of the Beaux Arts Institute of Design has joined the faculty of the department of architecture at Notre Dame. He is Frank Montana of New York City, who has been studying abroad for the past three years. 
In addition to being the twenty-ninth winner of the Paris Prize, Mr. Montana has been the recipient of several high honors. In 1935 he re­ceived first honorable mention in the competition for the Rome Prize in Design for the American Academy in Rome. This year his design for a hydroplane base for the Midway Island, his subject for the Archi­tecte Diploma Du Goveumment Francais, was awarded "mention tres bien" by the Ecole National de Beaux Arts in Paris. In addition, the So­ciety of Architects of Prance con­ferred a medal on Mr. Montana for his design. " • 
The Notre Dame Alumnus November, 1939 
BY JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. '32 
« Director of Athletic Publicity 
ATHLETICS 
You wouldn't expect this depart­ment to say that Notre Dame has been lucky to win five football games in 1939 by the margin of 15 points, would you? Nor shall we. 

Coach Elmer Layden has already pointed out that the strongest point about this team is "that one point." 
THE HEAD COACH 
Elm^r F. Layden, '25 

He says "In 1937 we got a touchdown a week and hung on for dear life. Last year we got a few touchdowns we didn't deserve. This year we're giving them back." 
That last sentence contains the crux of the season thus far, as our prejudiced eyes see it. Notre Dame has got ahead in each of its five games, and in four of them has given up a last quarter touchdown. A shoe­string tackle of Mike Byelene by Milt Piepul after the former had traveled 20 yards prevented Purdue from get­ting a final period touchdown. 
The big-hearted Irish of 1939 pre­sented Georgia Tech with one touch­down, Southern Methodist with tivo. Navy's and Carnegie Tech's were more or less earned. More about them later. 
Before the season opened, the talk was all about getting past Purdue "and you're all set." The Irish got by Purdue and then squeezed by Georgia Tech, Southern Methodist, and Navy. Talk then was to get by Carnegie Tech, "and the rest is easy." The boys ag^in slid by, and it appears that the only thing that can stop them before the Southern Cal game is the belief that no one but U. S. C. can stop them. 
As this is written, Layden is point­ing the lads East for the Army game. For the first time this season, the first and second teams are both load­ed with casualties. The Cadets are always inspired for this game. Iowa is stronger than ever in recent years. Northwestern is on the rise. And Southern California, of course, is bowling over everyone in sight. 
Layden, as his record of 16 vic­tories in 17 starts might indicate, has the right slant: "They're all tough. They get tougher every week. We don't point for anyone, but we play them one at a time, in stride, and play to win." 
Purdue was no less menacing than had been suspected. The Irish sur­vived, 3 to 0, when Johnny Kelleher, first son of a Notre Dame football monogram Avinner to make good in Notre Dame football, trotted his 155 
THE CAPTAIN 
Jolm Kelly, 'iO 
pounds on to the field to settle a dis­pute which raged violently among some 42 other 180- to 220-pounders the rest of the afternoon. He swimg his toe through an arc on the 15-yard yard line of Purdue's and the ball sailed majestically through the up­rights for a field goal, Notre Dame's third 3 to 0 victory of all time. Gus Dorais defeated Pitt in 1912 by that margin, and Joe Brandy took care of W. & J. that way in 1917. 
The margin over Purdue was a fair one. The first downs were even, but Notre Dame made 131 yards to Purdue's 81 from rushing. Purdue added 21 yards on two completed passes. But t%vo Purdue passes were intercepted, and twice Purdue throw­ers were dumped for damaging losses. Notre Dame tried five passes, but nothing happened on any of them. 
The Irish made the most serious scoring threat when Lou Zontini missed a field goal in the second quar­ter. Byelene's dash in the final quar­ter started on his 20-yard line, with Piepul making the tackle on the Pur­due 40. The Irish regulars replaced the shock troops, and stemmed the drive at the Irish 37-yard stripe. 
Kelleher's Dad, Bill, will be remem­bered as a Notre Dame halfback who won football letters in 1911, 1912, and 1914, and basketball letters in 1912 and 1914. He was not present at his son's unveiling as shock troop quar­terback in this, his senior year. But he did see the Navj' game. Johnny was unranked as a sophomore, and about fifth last year. 
Old Faithful, Harry Stevenson, booted a 28-yard placement field goal to provide the margin over Georgia Tech, 17 to 14. The placement came undramatically in the first period. The dazzling Techs, led by 140-pound Johnny Bosch, went ahead Avhen Butch Aderhold blocked Bob Saggau's kick and took possession on the 12­yard line. Howard Ector plunged over moments later. 
Here Layden unveiled another quarterback, one Bob Hargrave of Evansville, Ind., who, because Steve Sitko and Kelleher had already been used with the shock troops, took com­mand of the varsity in the second quarter. Hargrave, using two first 
THE MASCOT 
Clashmore Mike 

November, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
down passes, to eat up 18 and 22 yards respectively, engineered march­es of 65 and 45 yards in 10 plays, all told. Saggau scored the first touch­down from six yards out. Joe Thesing went five yards for the other. 
The Irish protected their 17 to 7 lead through the third period with the first team in operation. The thinl team saw its only action of the seas­on as a group at the start of the final period. Tech recovered a fumble on the Yellow Jackets' 36. Two passes, Bosch to Webb and Bosch to Gibson, put the ball on the Irish 22. The first team came back in, but couldn't pre­vent Bosch from passing to Ison, who made a leaping, falling catch on the goal line. Later in the game, Bosch's pass to Gibson slipped off the latter's fingertips, and Notre Dame was in. 
Southern Methodist made news by outmahning Notre Dame, 31 men to 24, but the Mustang's last, rearing, rolling "Sunfish" left him one point out of a tie. The toes of Zontini and Kelleher made the extra points that won, while Sanders of the Dallas team missed the one that would have tied. He had a hard time concealing his grief, and he had the sympathy of one and all — for his kick came close. And S.M.U. had the respect of all for their high brand of sports­manship on the field, and particularly after the game when the 65-piece swing band entertained about 25,000 of the 45,000 crowd for 45 minutes with a jam session which, the jitter­bugs tell us, was in the most ap­proved groove. 
Joe Thesing's fumble on the sec­ond play of the game, gave the Mus­taangs the ball on the Irish 15, from which Preston (Presto ) Johnston jammed it over in five plays. One play after the kickoff, Harry Steven­son tossed a pass to Bud Kerr, left end, for 37 yards, and another on the next play to Zontini for 23 yards and a touchdown. The score was tied at 7-all in seven minutes of play. 
The Te.xans' second team marched 63 yards to go ahead, 13 to 7, in the second quarter, with Ray Mallouf 
BENNIE SHERIDAN 

Dynamite in a Small Package 
taking a lateral from Bob Belville for three yards and the score. The Irish shock troops retaliated with a 67 yard march in which Piepul, the People's Choice, made 46 yards him­self, and scored the tying touchdown. 
Piepu] put Notre Dame ahead, scoring by running over two Mus­tangs from their 10-yard line in the fourth quarter, with Kelleher kicking the all-important extra point. S. M. U.'s final bid came when the Irish waited until fourth down to punt and Harry Stevenson's effort was blocked by Pope, the Mustangs taking posses­sion on the Irish three. It was simple work for Johnston to ramble over in one lunge. 
It would have been foolish to push Navy into Lake Erie from Cleve­land's jam-packed lake front stadium, but the Irish did everything but that in winning by the almost comfortable margin of 14 to 7. Zontini, Piepul and Ben Sheridan ran wild in contribut­ing to a total of 419 yards from rush­ing as against 33 for the Middies. Sheridan opened the second period w^ith a 27-yard touchdown run the first time he touched the ball. The Irish marched 65 yards to their sec­ond touchdown, with Piepul going over from the six-inch line, just as the third period ended. 
The Irish must have relaxed or something about this time, for Bob Leonard tossed a simple pass to UI­mont Whitehead for 64 yards and a Navy touchdown in the final period. Onlly two men were downfield on the 
MILT PIEPUL 
The People's Choice 

play, but Whitehead sped past the Irish, secondary to take the 40-yard toss and run the rest of the way prac­tically solo. 
Carnegie Tech proved to be the sternest foe met thus far. The casu­alty list was long for each team at the end. The statistics were prac­tically even, with the Tartans holding a slight advantage. Both teams got breal:s to score. The trusty toe of Lou Zontini our personal candidate for the title of "best money player" on the squad, provided the margin, 7 to 6. 
The Irish scored when Bud Kerr, left end, tried to steal the ball from Tech's amazing Merlyn Condit on a dash from the Tech 21-yard line. Kerr didn't quite succeed, but he loosened the ball,, and as Condit was tackled, it popped into the air. The alert Kerr grabbed it and walked across the goal. 
The Tartans didn't make a first down until the final quarter, when Condit suddenly broke around his right end for 47 yards against the Irish shock troops. The reg^ulars re­turned, but Tech pressed to a first 
JOHNNY O'BRIEN 
The name goes on 

down on the 18. Three plays made only three yards, then Condit dropped back to pass. Kerr rushed in got a hand on the ball, but deflected it into the air. It dropped into the hands of Gerald White, Tech quarterback, who dashed to the six yard line before Irish tacklers stopped him. Condit rammed over in three plays. 
Johnny Mclntyre, senior center, got a sore nose for his pains, but he's happy that he was able to break through Tech's closely-knit, burly line, and catch George Muha's at­tempted placement for extra point full in the face with such force that the ball bounded nearly to midfield before Kerr fell on it to end the play. 
Thus, it is our contention that Georgia Tech and Southern Method­ist were luckier than the Irish, lucky to get as close as they did. With res­ervations. Navy was lucky, too, not only to complete their touchdown pass but to prevent Notre Dame's 419 yards from turning into more touch­downs. We say this with all respect to Navy's fighting defense. 
As for Carnegie Tech, the Scots needed a break to keep their march alive. A blocked kick is not all luck. The attempt is a definite play. A definite defensive plan tries to stop it. Notre Dame forced its touchdown break. Any other outcome would have been at least as unfair to Notre Dame as the actual result was to Carnegie. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus November, 1939 
« « «
ALUMNI CLUBS 
CHICAGO 
James T. IEOC, '32. 328 S. Jefferson, Pres­ident; John F. Clark. '35, 4738 Washington Blvd.. Secretarr-

At this wTitinp, the most important thought in the air is the comin^r Notre Dame-Army formal supi>er dance under the co-ehairman­ship of John Maloney and Sfarttn Bums. Both the officers of the club and the dance com­mittee have been endeavoring to make this occasion the crowninB success of all the year's activities. November 4 at the K^ickG^bocke^ Hotel has been set for the affair, and judging from advanced sales and reservations phoned in, the dance will surpass all of its predeces­sors in attendance^ As an additional induce­ment the club is offering a dpor prize of two all-expense trip to the Notre Dame-Southern California game on the Gould Special. Each trip includes meals, flowers, programs, rail fare, compartment, and game ticket. 
Since our last writing, another smoker was held at the Morrison Hotel with Wally O'Brien doing a very fine iob in the capacity of chair­man. Wally secured John Schommer. referee extraordinary from Armour Tech, as the guest speaker. Mr. Schommer gave the mem* hers some new angles on the game not gen­erally known or obser\-ed from the stands. It was agreed by all that the referee is the most underpaid man in the game considering the fact that he takes his life in his hand;; every time he makse a decision. 
During the course of the past American Legion Convention in Chicago, Austin Mc-Nichols, '17. acted as chairman at a dinner to all Notre Dame nlumni members of the Legion. 
The Chicago Club welcomes one Franklyn Hochreitcr to its roll of members. Frank, secretary extraordinary for the class of '3S. has moved his bag and baggage to Chicago temporarily. 
^Vith the year quickly coming to a close. President Igoe announces the appointing of Paul O'Toolc, '32, as chairman for the final smoker. However, more details -will be pub­lished in the coming "Bulletin" on the final Splash. 
John F. Clark. 

CINCINNATI 
Joseph S. Morrissey, *2S. 200 E. Front St., President; Donald Dixon, ex. *34. 603 St. Paul BIdg.. Secretary. 

The Cincinnati Club resumed its regular winter monthly meetings at the Kemper Lane Hotel in Cincinnati on l\iesday. October 3, 1939. 
Several of the alumni from various parts of the countrj-, who were attending the 
C.Y.O. Convention at Cincinnati on that date, were present at the meeting and wc were gratified to learn of the excellent -work being done by Notre Dame graduates in this field. 
Plans were completed for the annual fund raising campaign for the local scholarship fund, and Dick Shiels was named chairman of the committee in charge. 
The I939-I940 Alumni Board 
Prof. William L. Benitz, '11, Notre Dame, ImL honorary President Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., '17, Giicago, HL « President Henry C. Wurzcr, '25, Davenport, Iowa First Vice-President Kcenc Fitzpatrick, '13, San Francisco, Calif. ..Second Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame, Jnd. — Secretary'Treasurer William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dam^ Ind Assistant Secretary Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, N. J Director to 1940 Frands H. McKeevcr, '03, Chicago, Dl. Director to 1941 Edward F. O'TooIe, '25, Chicago, lU Director to 1942 John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, MicL Director to 1943 Ambrose A. O'Crainell, '07, Washington, D.C .JEx'Offiao Director to 1940 
delegation to the Notre Dame-Na\-y football game at Cleveland, arrangements having been made with the railroad for a private car for club members and their friends. 
Saturday, Novcmlwr 4, was selected for the next meeting date, a buffet luncheon to be served before the broadcast of the Notre Dame-Army game, and the high-ranking of­ficials at the local army post have been in­vited as our guests on that occasion. 
Since our last report: 

Vt'e had our annual summer picnic at the Pines Country Club, Cincinnati, better at­tended than ever before, and high-lighted by a well-played bnll game, wherein the students, led by Joe Thesing, Bob Leonard. Howard Rohan, et. al.. nosed out the alumni. 19 to 15. Bob Hughes on the mound for the latter was ineffective, as usual. 
Bill Dooley came to Cincinnati to explain the workings of his Placement Bureau. The local committee in charge was able to report that there is not a single unemployed alumnus in this vicinity. 
Ray Pcllman. Andy Barton and Joe Mor­rissey (number ?) arc boasting of recent ad­ditions to the family. Mr. Morrissey. - inci­dentally, is a crandidatc for mayor of Green-hills, a thriving little community on the out­skirts of Cincinnati, and he expects to bo elected on the basis of bis campaign "No Gravy in Greenhills." 
Joe and Bill Kinneary and Nick Janson, whose mothers died recently, have the sin­eerest sj-mpathy of our members in their Joss. 
Donald E. Dixon. 

CLEVELAND 
John J. CoIlinB. '32. 1090 Union Conmcrcc Bid?.. Preiident; Ridiard P. PrezekL *35, 800 Bnlkley Bldff., Secretary. 

You and I know that a very newsworthy week-end has just been completed here and that this will eventually turn out to be a long, if ambiguous, letter, but. right now I'm having quite a time trying to figure out where to start. While everyone here in Cleveland is replaying the Notre Dame-Na\-y game from the depths of comfortable arm­chairs, or just plain holding their heads and sighing, your very tired secretary is trying to recall whom he saw over the week-end 
In the first place the game w-as fine. The newspaper writers dug up hundreds of words to describe the game, the day, the crowd, the band, the team et al but I'm going to say that ail those things were "fine" or "just dandy"—to be more enthusiastic and let it go at that. After all. I can't use the same words the newspapers did. That would lie plagiarism. However, if I won't steal the words of the columnists. I would like to bor­row their style and the all important three. . . 
•^ At the Notre Dame-Navy-Chambcr of Com­merce Dinner: Toastmaster AVarren Brown, sparing none of the speakers in a'concerted effort to make a train "that might leave any minute" . . . Father O'Hara, Auxiliary Bishop McFadden and Ray Kelly, national commander of the American Legion, posing for pictures . . . Co-chairman Clayt Lcroux and Karl Mar­tersteck rushing last-minute preparations . .' . Mayor Burton being ribbed for his Republi­canism . . . Jack Collins trying to find a clever story with which to introduce Toast­master Warren Brown .. . Ed Killeen. ar­riving late and formally and being kidded plenty about it . . . Bud Raddatz, losing weight, trying to keep the finances straight . - .. Week-end Chairman Stan Cofall. Don Miller. Al Sommcr and Jim Uprichard at the .Speaker's table . . . and a final pat on the back to Warren, the witty Brown, whose saline sarcasm had the dinner guests howling every minute he was on his feet. 
At the Victory Dance in Hotel Statler: Cleve Carey celebrating his last night in Cleveland. He's off to New York to take over a job as assistant to the ad manager of J. C. Penney Co. . . . John Bcgley, in from De­troit for the day . . . Loa Hmby and his cock­tail party guests, arriving late . . , Bob Mazanec meeting plenty of dancing competi­tion .. . Bob Hackman and Harry Fox in a huddle . . . Ticket Manager Herb Jones with Pat Canny's party. . . . 
And all around the town: John P . Murphy playing Jiost to a group of prominent Cleve-landers and Navy officers at the Tavern Club . . - Bob Morrissey and Al Lawton trying to locate some last-minute tickets—a very tough job indeed . . . Al Grisanti's tavern enjoying a terrific week-end business . . . Tony Anz­lovar at Joe PMrit^ Friday night party for local newshawks . . . Chnck Maculaso and 
Plans were also made for sending a large and what they were doing. f-^hil PFcndergast trying to find elbow room at 
November, 1939 
Grisanti's. . . . Phil Geoghan waitiiiK for his wife at the Stadium . . . and your wearj­correspondent losing his topcoat in the Fri­day night pre-ffame scuffle. 
Dick Prczebel. 

DAYTON 
Gaylord P. Haas» *29, 17 E. Bruce Ave., President; William L. Struck. *36, Winters Bank BIdf;.. Secretary. 

The Notre Dame Club of Dayton had its annual stag party at the Biltmore Hotel, Sep­tember 30, for alumni and friends for the broadcast of the Notre Dame-Purdue football game. The local Purdue alumni club members were invited to join in the affair, and a fine lunch and a good time was had by all. 
In return, the Purdue club extended a cor­dial welcome to our members and friends on October 9 at the Engineer's Club for an eve­ning's entertainment featuring the moving pictures of the Notre Dame-Purdue game. Noble Kizcr, the guest of honor, gave an interesting and educational talk on football, and gave his predictions as to the strength and weaknesses of next year's tcnma. 
ITie Notre Dame Club of Dayton is happy to welcome the following members to its roster: Joseph Leonard Adrian, Robert C Bolz, Edward K. Grimes, all recently obtain­ing fine positions with the TJ. S. government at Wright Field; Richard Burkholdcr, located with Wall, Cassel & Eberly: Chester Kline, gentleman farmer at Osborn, Ohio; Thomas A. Kelly, and Urban Daly, with General Motors Corporation; and Charles Rasor -with the Braun Brothers Packing Company at Troy, Ohio. 
William W Struck. 

DETROIT 
Howard F. Beechinor, ex. '06, 1300 Union Guardian BIdg.» President; Malcolm F. Knans, '26, 423 Curtis BIdff.. Secretary. 

The Notre Dame Club of Detroit chartered the largest boat on the lake to carry 600 alumni and friends to the Navy-N.D. game in Cleveland. We left at 11:30 Friday night. a hilarious crowd that certainly had a lot of fun. In fact, we even had an orchestra to supply music for dancing and Notre Dame songs. 
This was really an occasion on which the wives of Notre Dame men could share in the enjoyment of a Notre Dame party- Of course, it would be out of the question for me to give you very many of the names of those who made the trip. I spent quite a lot of time Friday evening with Gil Schacfer and his wife and Lowell Comcrford and his wife. Ernie LaJoie had a large party, including Mrs, Raymond J. Kelly, wife of our new Ameri­can Legion national commander, who could not go to Cleveland until Saturday. Judge Joe Sanford, of Muskegon, engineered a party and Henry Schmid. whose son is at Notre Dame, also had a party. P. J. Moriarity. who is the father of Eddie, who incidentally, helped Howard Beechinor in preparing for the trip, bad 12 guests. Of course, there were others who had groups, including Jack Zim­mcrs, Joe Sdiragc, Frank McGinnis and Louis Chaussc. 
Our boat carried a party of Navy "e n from Detroit, and I believe that Ihcre wei? key representatives and high officials of all of the large industrial plani.'t in Detroit. Herb Mendelson, the owner of the "hoat "Notre Dame." and Jack King, the radio announcer (who signs off "That's King for a Day"), were there, and I believe every profession, in­cluding lawj-ers, judges, doctors, engineers, sports writers and radio announcers. There 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
were representatives from Canada. Toledo, Flint, Pontine Tetoskey, Muskegon, Kalama­zoo, Ann Arbor and Chicago, including John­nie Wallace whom I have not seen for some time. 
The idea, the planning and the entire work fell upon one man's shoulders. There is no (luestion but that it was a one-man job. and that one man who should get all the credit is our president, Howard Beecltinor. It is a wonder he kept his sanity through the last two weeks because I have never seen anyone so overrun with visitors, telephone calls, far into the night, seven days a week, and he did a beautiful job and took care of everybody who wanted to go. Howard had guaranteed the club a minimum profit of $300 and, al­though he could not give me the e^act figure, it exceeded this amount. We are all very anxious to have this established as an annual affair and wc certainly hope this can be ar­ranged. 
Malcolm F. Knaus. 

DENVER 
James P. Losran. '18. Logan Movinic & Storage Co.. 37th & Blarion Sts.. Preaident; Charles F. Cuaidy. '38. 1249 Fillmore St., Secretary. 

The club is all set to handle its seventh special football train in four years, — this time to the Southern Cal-N. D. game on the campus on November 25, by way of the Union Pacific. Arrival in South Bend is scheduled for 10:30 Saturday morning, which will allow plenty of time for an inspection of the campus (with present students from the Denver area as guides), and lunch. On the return trip, the group will leave South Bend at 6 P. M, Saturday and Chicago at 2 P. M. Sunday. 
With the assistance of the Alumni OfTice. the Denver club is carrying on an intensive promotion program to build up the trip and success is again just ahead. 
HARRISBURG 
Robert M. Hohnston, *33, Box 108, Presi­dent; Joseph R. FarrelU *13. 32 N. 27th St.. Camp Hill. Pa.. Secretary. 

The regular monthly meetings were re­sumed in October—the first Tuesday being the usual meeting date. Routine business was transcribed with the newly elected president. Bob Johnston, endeavoring to maintain order and at the same time promote this year's pro­gram. 
Recent visitors in Harrisburg included Eugene AIoysiusMaloney. who came here from "Williamsport: Tom Goss of Philadelphia, and 
E. M. Donohue of I^ncaster. 
A new member of the Harrisburg Club is John R. Moriarty, who is employed in the Department of Revenue. Here John will prob­ably become acquainted with Vince Snyder, who is doing the purchasing for the state, or Charlie Doughcrt}-, the director of motor vehicles, or Dr. Joe Rafter, drector of the state library, and others on Capitol Hill. 
T\vo graduates of Notre Dame's College of Engineering are helping in the building of the 165 mile super-highway, the Pennsylvania Turnpike, Harry Brcslin and James (Bob) Graham. Breslin lives in Harrisburg. Graham in York. 
Tom Carfagno, who Is in charge of the Cannon Shoe Co. in MeSherrysIown, reports that he has been visited by some of the Har­risburg members who are interested in seeing that Tom has plenty of insurance. 
For the past two years the Harrisburg Club 

has taken a leading part in the promotion of a dinner gathering of the CatboUe college alumni in this vicinity. F»thcr Hngh O'Don­nell addressed the first meeting and Ambrose O'Connell. at that time Alumni Association president, addressed last year's meetinsr. Right now this group is arranging a Forum which will include five nationally known Catholic speakers: Msgr. Fulton Sheen, Father Leon­ard Feeney. Father Hubbard, Bishop Francis 
C. Kelley and Frank Sheed. The Notre Dame Club is taking a prominent part in this activ­ity with John M^cill. Walter Lutz and Harry Breslin doing much of the work. Yours truly is chairman of the Speakers Committee. 
J. R. FarreU. 

INDIANAPOLIS 
J. Albert Smith, «34. 221S N. Bferidian St. President; Elbert W. Hahoney, '26. 393€ Central Ave., Secretary. 

The Indianapolis Club is on its way with another good weekly luncheon program. We meet every Monday noon at the Spink Arms Hotel. A committee headed by Joe Argus is in charge and we started off with a fine program and an excellent lunch. Father Ray­mond Bosler gave a talk on the Italian people and the War. Father Bosler had just re­turned from Rome where spent the last four years, so he had quite a first hand picture of events leading up to the'present conflict. 
We have an average attendance of about 30 at these luncheon meetings, which are our principal activity at present. Our president, AI Smith, is back from his wedding trip and with Al back in harness, (or perhaps I should say back harnessed) we'll very likely have a more extensive program. 
Duke Clancy is back in Indianapolis from Evansville where he lived for the last year or two. I understand also that Lew Cody. '26, is now living here but I ha\-en't seen him yet. 
EL Alahoney. 

KANSAS CITY (MUsouri-Kansas) 
John J. O'Connor. '34. 4133 Herder St., Kansas City. Ho.. President; Norman H. Bowes. '33. 5525 RockMQ Road. Kansas City. Mo.. Secretary. 

Alumni and friends of Notre Dame of this district arc making extensive plans for the game in Iowa City on November 11. This game marks the closest site of battle to us since the Kansas game in 1932. A special train or so and several auto cavalcades are planned. 
Wild Bill Mahoney. *33, the demon oilman, and Tommy "Killer" Higgins. '06, among others, took in the S3I.U. game and are still muttering about those offensive surges. AI Ravarino. '35, is through these parts often en route to St. Louis. Red Forrest, of Bridge­port, Connecticut, likewise was among us early last spring during a hardware con­vention. 
We chanced on John Coles, the Kansas merchant, while driving through Parsons re­cently. He is as affable as ever, and reports all his brothers and cousins as well. Other Kansas representatives, Vince DeCoarscy, '39. and Ernest Maurln, '38, report Dave Crooks with a big stogie and a hot accelerator on the highways. 
Tom Yarr, '32. is said to have been trans­ferred here with some investment firm. George McLincy. '29, while representing a local bond house, has met all the county school boards and superintendents in the surrounding states. Jim Mnlcahy, formerly of Chicago, is now hers with FVed Harvey. Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs- Lawrence Naushton announce the birth of a s^n in August. 
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Quirk announce the birth of a daughter in July. 
MEMPHIS 
Gm]\-in Hudson, '15, Parkview Hotet Preri­dent: Bailey Walsh, ex. *27, Columbian Matttml Tower, Secretarr. 

I have nolhinjr to report this month, except that all of our plans have been formulated for our trip to the Notre Dame-Southern Cali­fornia football same the last of November. We are Eoinu to run a special train to the Kame. under the auspices of the Xotre Dame Club of Memphis. We are beinK supported in the orKanization of this special train by the Irish Sociot>- of Memphis. A number of our state diRnitaries will attend the came, in­cluding Governor Prentice Cooper of the state of Tennessee. 
It is believed our train will arrive in South Bend about eiKht o'clock Saturday mornin^r. and we are preparinfc for a erand reunion with all the boi's at a Itincheon in the dininp room about 12 o'clock. Wo are all lookint: forward to a ixreat jrame and a jiood time back on the campus. 
Bailey Walsh. 

NEW JERSEY 
Daniel J. O'Neill, *2G, 184 K. Walnut St.. East OranKC, President; Harvey P. Rodc­well. '34. 2202 Essex House. 1048 Broad St., 
Newark. Secretary-

Past Activities: 
While the annual "Hard Times Dance" is actually a few days away as this is written, it will be a past activity when the ALUM­NUS reaches the members. Judpinpr by pre­vious years* efforts, we are sure it will be an excellent affair. The Jersey Club is working diligently to build a scholarship fund similar 
-to that ot the New York Club. The function at which a number of the Notre Dame-Army Rame tickets are sold has proven to be a valu­able source of revenue. It should be noted that our hard working chairman. Sam Cala­niBo, *29, has stepiwd in to *'pinch hit" at the last minute and has shown his excellent abil­ity to orininize the complete activity with finesse. 
The Jersey Club is maintaining its position in the field of Catholic Action by its coopera­tion with the Press Relations Committee. This Kroup is headed by Father Thoumy of Ford­ham and is interested in correcting any mis­statement of fact or any bias regarding Ca­tholicism that may bo found in newspapers, magazines, the radio or theatre. The com­mittee expects to publish a booklet on its activities, according to Ray Geiccr. '32. the Jersoj' Club representative on the committee. 
Incidentally, the writer heard a lecture by Frank Oberkoctter. '32. on color photography at the National Convention of the Photogra­phers Association of America in Buffalo. It was very well worthwhile. Fntnre Activities: 
Our President, Dan O'Neill. '26, assures us that the Jersey Club will be well representeil at the Carnegie Tech pame in Pittsburgh, for he and a number of other boys plan to drive out to see the team trim the Scots. 
Again the Jersey Club plans to cooperate and participate with the New York Club in the smoker that will be held the night before the Army game at Manhattan Center. It was a real treat to sec so many of the erstwhile classmates at this smoker last year, and we sTiall look for^rard to it again this year. 
Jack Winbcrrj-, the chairman of the New­Year's dance, tells us that the plans are well under way for an outstanding evening that win rival last year's *'super successful." 
The "Ear-to-the-ground" Committee tells us that: 
Joe Sullivan, *36. of United Airlines, hopes to get enough of the boys together to charter a plane for the Southern California game, and. if that be possible, there is no doubt that it will be a most enoyable trip. 
William N. McCormick. *34, formerly located in Syracuse, has joined the staff of the New­ark "Ledger" and expects to say "hello" to the bo3's at the next alumni meeting. 
D. J. Sullivan. '32. was married in Sei>­tember. 
Also Dick Carton. *32. married Frances Kridel and is managing two theatres nearby. Our congratulations to both couples. 
Tom FarrcII's ('26) new baby is a boy. Harvey P. Rockwell. Jr. 

NEW YORK CITY 
Daniel D. Halpin, '31, 420 Riverside Dr., President; Robert A. Hamilton. *28, 63 Wall St., SecreUry. 

(The Army-Notre Dame Rally and Reunion on November 3 hits the ALUMNUS just wrong: we have to be on the press that day. Therefore, — details, dirt, stuff and things about the R&R in the next issue. Watch for it on the newsstands. Don't fait us, Mr. Hamilton.—Eds.) 
Major Benjamin T. Anuskewicz, U.S.A. and a former District Leader of the Catholic Center Party in Berlin (he had to remain anonymous) were the speakers at the club meeting in Manhattan Center on October 3. The Major, national commander of the Polish Legion, composed of American soldiers of Polish descent who fought in the World War. gave first-hand observation of Poland, ha\*ing just returned from there. The anonymous German discus.*^ the rise of National Social­ism, described his life in a concentration camp and his decision to come to America. "One of the most interesting meetings ever held," reports Sec. Hamilton. 
Members of the club were to take an active part in the national convention of the Na­tional Catholic Alumni Federation at the Penn­sylvania Hotel on October 2G-29. Father O'Hara assisted at the Convention Mass and gave one of the principal addresses. Jim Armstrong was on deck. Art Hughes, Chica­go, former president of the Alumni Associa­tion, was the retiring president of the Fed­eration. 
PEORIA 
John Sloan. Jr.. '33, 233 N. UndcAUl St.. President; Robert E. Ward, *34, 1 Yfuikee Street Romd. Chillicothe, IlL, Secrctaiy. 

Rudy Kelly was elected vice-president to replace Dick Delane^* who deserted Peoria for the Tall Com State. Rudy was president of the Springfield (Illinois) Club before coming to Peoria. 
AI Gary reports progress in arrangements for « special train—with special rates—(o the Northwestern game. There is a strong and steady interest in this trip, and from all pres­ent indications N.D. men and fellow Peorians will embark several hundred strong to watch Benny Sheridan scamper down the field. 
Charlie Hayes, late of New Jersey, has be­come one of our adopted sons, attending meet­ings as well as Notre Dame bome games. 
Ed Snell. chairman of our most recent meet­ing, piloted the club to the Guardian Angel Orphanage at the invitation of Father Edward Farrell. who proved his ability as a chef. Father Farrell was given a vote of thanks the like of which can be inspired only by a bountiful and well-cooked meal set before Notre Dttme men. 

"Curlcy" Rouleau will be chairman of our next meeting which will be the occasion of a prize drawing—box of seats for the North­western game. Income from the sale of tickets is used as a scholarship fund. 
Bab Ward. 

ROCHESTER (New York) 
William E. 3Ierriman. *2.^. 646 Ridseway Ave., President; William T. Whelchan. '39. 4110 Lake Ave.. Secretary. 

At a meeting held in the Governor's room of the Rochester Club. September 20. new offi­cers for the year *:i9-'40 were elected. 
Our new president. William Mcrriman. a graduate from the Department of Electrical Engineering, is making rapid strides with the Eastman Kodak Company. 
Arthur Curran. our vice-president, a promi­nent attorney here in Rochester, will lend his legal knowledge to the club if the occasion demands it. 
Lawrence Carpenter. '.14. our treasurer, ts busily engaged selling insurance for the Penn Mutual. 
The members at present are working ver>­diligently selling tickets for a "Lecture" to i>e held October 2(1 for the benefit of the schol­arship fund. It is our hope that the fund will assume large enough proportions to war­rant sending some worthy young man to Notre ^ Dame next fall. Lawrence Carpenter is chairman of the committee for the "Lec­ture." 
\ViIItam T. Whelehan. 

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
William F. Benibrock. '35. 718 S. 8th St.. President; William M. White. '21. 621 S. 7Ui St.. Secretary. 

Summer activities of the Springfield Notre Dame Club ended September 21 with a barbe­cue supper at Lake Springfield, members and their wives and friends enjoying the affair. Chuck Corcoran and Mike Kennoy were in charge of the arrangements. 
Regular monthly schedule was resumed with a luncheon meeting at the Elks Club. October 
19. Among those present were Tom Vicars. *36, of Pontiac, employed by the Division of Highwai's. and Dr. Edward Bernard, ex. '36. who recently began the practice of dentistry in Springfield. 
Miss Agnes Graeff and Walter E. Bernard were married -here on September 30. The newlywods spent part of their honeymoon visiting the University and attending the Notre Dame-Georgia Tech game. 
Mike Kenney, '31. received, on October 10, an appointment as. chief clerk in the executive department of the Secretary of State. 
Harry Argus, ex. *31. Joe Pedrucd. '39. John Thnlis. '38. and Joe McGrath. '36. are all attending Lincoln College of Law. 
Harold Stone has lieen- transferre<l to the Chicago area. 
John J. Cassidy. attorney general of Illi­nois, and Jack Elder, of Chicago, made brief addresses at a CYO baseball dinner held at the K. of C. club a few weeks ago. 
November, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Springfield has two representatives at Notre Dame this year. Bob Walsh, Breen-Phillips Hall, guard on the freshman team, and Geonce Bernard, student manager and resident of Cavanauph Hall. 
The Notre Dame football jnimes are being 
well attended by our local Notre Dame men 
and their friends. 
Bill White. 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) Frank Miles, ex. *22. 1405 E. McKinley, Soath Bend. President; CUtence Hardins, *25, South Bend Tribune, Soolfa Bend. Sec­retary. 
Paul Bochm and John McNamara will be chairmen for the Northwestern smoker on Friday evening, November 17. and Ed Mechan and Frank CouBhlin will carry the freight for the Southern Cnl smoker on Friday eve­ning, November 24. Both will be in tho Oliver Hotel. 
President Frank Miles has announced the appointment of Attorney Aaron Huguenard as general chairman of the club's annual civic testimonial bannuet for the football team. The date has been tentatively set: Monday, December 11. (You'll know about that definitely before this appears in print.) 
In the redecorated and generally renewed Rotnry Room of the Oliver, the first three smokers seemed to have fresh interest for all the Inds—and there were plenty of them. Mai Elward. Bill Alexander and Matty Bell, coaches, respectively, for Purdue. Georgia Tech, and Southern Methodist, extended greet­ings and regards, and Elmer Laydcn predicted the usual close games. (But he didn't say that 
N.D. would win the three of them by a total margin of seven points.) Newspaper men, radio men and notable men generally graced all the proceedings—and some of them spoke. Frank McCormick, first baseman, didn't at­tempt to explain Cincinnati baseball, however. 
At tho Southern Afethodist smoker the boys were caught off base for a minute by a special broadcast aired by a couple of .«uspicious­sounding football experts. These were later identified as Francis Jones and Lou Bmgg­ner, assisted by Mark Boyden, of WFAM­WSBT. The job was well done and enthusi­astically received. 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) Regis G. McKamara, '33, 22 Ratherford St.. BiniEhamion, P resident; James H. Hosan. *34, 62 Mary St.. Binghamton, Secretary. 
Most of the members of the club are pretty busy right now preparing for their annual iaunt to Now York City to witness the Notre Dame-Army football game. In fact. Stew Os­borne. '34, and his wife, .are planning to spend a whole week in New- York at that particular time. There will be four fspecial trains leav­ing Binghamton for the game—two on the Erie Railroad and two on the Lackawanna Railroad. It is expected that about 1.000 people from the Triple Cities will make tho trip. 
Leo Sullivan, who was preparing for the priesthood in the Holy Cross Order at the mother house in France, will continue his studies at Washington due to the unsettled conditions in Europe. 
Ed Hogan, '35. ranked number one out of 120 apph'cnnts for the Binghamton Police De­partment. The ranking resulted after a series of physical and mental tests which were given to all applicants. 
Tom Burke. '.11. formerly of Luzerne. Penn­sylvania, and now a teacher in the Bingham­ton school system, is the proud father of a baby boy. Michael was bom the last week in June at Lourdes Hospital of this city. 
Don Kennedy, *21, finished first in the golf tournament conducted by the Binghamton Country Club. 
Ed O'Brien. *24, is secretary of the Demo­cratic party of the Southern Tier, and he has just boon appointed to be the census director for this territory in 1940. Ed will have about :!00 men working under him. 
Dan McAvoy, *24, who is the district attor­ney for Broome County, has made quite a name for himself by conducting a vice probe in the City of Binghamton. and he now has the mayor of the city under indictment. Dan. by the way, is running for re-election and he has the best wishes of all the members. 
Jim Hogan. 
NOTRE DAME CHARM 

Jim Hogan. secretarj- of the Triple Cities Club. 62 Mao' Street, Bingham­ton, Now York, has the following inter­esting and entirely "different" tale about Regis McNamara, 22 Rutherford Street, Binghamton: 
"During one Easter vacation while he was at Notre Dame. Rtgis McNamara got a ride homo with somo fellows who were going to Pittsburgh. On the w-ay home they lost their traveling bags off the side of the car and in Regis' bag was his watch and his football charm that he had won as a sophomore. On the charm "was 'National Champions—^N.D. 1929.' 
"Two weeks ago Regis received word from the Rev. Leo T. Herlikoy. of St. Marj-'s Church at Hamilton. Ohio, stating that he had the charm and would send it on. Father Herlikey related that a negro wore it into a saloon ono night, and the bartender being an Irishman, and a real Notre Dame follower, forced the negro to give it up. The bartender handed the charm right over to Father Herlikey and the latter got in touch with Art Haley at Notro Dame and in this way Regis recov­ered his football charm. 
"Regis can't remember the names of the fellows who gave him the ride, but ho believed they lived in or around Pitts­burgh and ho believes that if these fellows saw this article they too miRht get in touch with Father Herlikoy and maybe he could recover for them somo of their valuables." 
TUCSON. ARIZONA 
Vincent Hengcsbach, ex. '27, P. O. Box 533, President; Ted A. Wilz, ex. '29, Box 628, Secretary-. 
Another year comes around finding the gang here in Tucson much smaller. "We miss so much the cheerful greetings that Eddie Collins had for us when we called on him. and, too, that good advice on football teams all around the country. I truly believe that Eddie was as well up on his football as any one, in­cluding the reporters who make their living doing it. Yes. we all do miss him terribly. 
Then Joe Ryan has returned to his home in Chicago, so much bettor that he doesn't in­tend returning to Tucson unless sometime for a visit, which makes us feel as though his determination and our climate (plug) again have won out in the fight for health. I hear he probably will spend some time at Notre Dame this fall. 
Jim Mnrpby tramps daily to the campus of the University of Arizona where his hours are taken up with the study of Law. Chris Rcilly must be happy and prosperous as he now resembles Joe BoUnd in figure (or should I say stature?). Paul Dafaad continues to improve and keeps his mind occupied reading the sports pages for news of N. D. Vin HenKesbach now can be reached at another Irishman's, the Mulcahy Lumber Co.. having just pone to work for this outfit recently. And I'm still looking forward to meeting any men that happen to pass through our Httlo city. . . . 
Ted Witz. 

WASHINGTON, D. C. Si?***^*.,^ i*""* '28, Dept. of Justice. 
Room 2632. President: Andrew Auth " S 
405 S'lxth St., S.W., SecreUry. ' 
The annual summer dance, which was held at the Congressional Country Club on July 
13. was a successful affair. The committee of which Murray Rnssell was chairman, is de^ serving of a lot of credit for working so hard m the dead heat of the "Washington summer" for the success of this annual event. In this connection, the members of the club wish to take this opportunity of expressing their ap­preciation to Honorabfo Leo F. 3(nllin, ex. '10, for having made it possible to hold this affair at the Congressional Club. 
Jack Cassidy. '30, and Mrs. CassJdy an­nounce the arrival of Jimmie Cassidy, '61. on June 10. Jimmie weighed in at eight pounds, and Jack says that he has presci-ibed a "special diet" for the newcomer, over the protests of Mrs. Cassidy, so that he will ar­rive in good condition for the '61 football season. 
John J. Dorsey, '34. recently announced his marriage to Miss Ann Mannuc, a cousin of Charles Mannix. of Notre Dame baseball fame, on December 31, 1939. John received his 
M.V. degree from Georgetown University Medical School in June. 
The annual business meeting, at which new officers were elected for the eitsaiitg year, was held on October 2 at the Raleigh Hotel. The new officers of the club are William Jones, *29, president: Bcmie Loshbongh, '29, and Tom McKevitt, 'as, vice-presidents; Jack Cassidy, *30. sergeant-at-arms; and Rev. R. H. Sween­ey, C.S.C., chaplain. Hon. Ambrose O'Con­neU, Frederic W. Wile, Artiiur G. Bergman and John Baczcnas were elected to sor^-e on the Board of Governors. 
President Jones appointed a committee com­prised of Jack Kenkel. chairman, Frederic W. Wile, Bill Carmack, and S. E. Richards to make plans and arrangements for a joint luncheon of the Notre Dame and Na*-al Acad­emy alumni to be held on October 21 on the occasion of the Na\T-Notre Dame football game. 
Charles Farris is to be congratulated for the dignified and enthusiastic manner in which he administered the affairs of the club during the past year. 
Samuel E. Richards. 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
J.IUI J. Rjaa. '21. UK Homwfidd AT... Ptttitanli. rred4cBt: J. Vincnit Bark,, Jr.. (»>S EdfcrtMi AT,.. Pittibanli. SN­ntarr. 
Since my last writinir, the activity in Pitts­bursh has consisted entireiy of the reffuJar 
The Notre Dame Alumnus November. 1939 
nooa lunches. Of course, (as this is \«-rittcn) the dominating theme and topic of these lunches is the approaching engagement with Carnegie Tech. As usual, the club had 1,500 tidcets to the game and 15.000 applications for the tickets. Thus some of the boys are going ^vith long faces as the result of not securing their requested allottment. The at­tendance at the noon lunches has been steadily increasing. In addition to those already men­tioned, Ben Kaiser, Frank McSorley, Jack Barr, Bob Hartman, John Hickey and George Kingsley have attended during the last month. We -were likewise honored with the presence of Paul Gray, who had been pretty near given up for lost. 
Bob Hartman reports that John Hickey is now connected with his company, the Imperial Oil & Gas Company, as attorney. The boys are all wishing John success in this new \'cnture. 
Word * has reachel us through the grape­vine that Lawrence Smith has recently an­nounced hip engagement. 
A good many of the boys went to Cleveland for the Notre Dame-Navy game, including Jack Monteverde, Jack Barr, Eddie 0*Bricn and yours truly. Probably there were many 
Bob Fulton, one of our members, has been laid up for the last month with a bad attack of yellow iaundice, but I am told that he is well on the road to recovery now. 
As previously mentioned, the Carnegie Tech game caused more than the usual amount of interest in Pittsburgh. I was told that Father Morris E- Powers from Holy Cross College, Washington, planned to attend, as did Armand 

W. KcIIoffg, from Rock Springs, Wyoming. Of course, all the boys from ^^'^leeIing. Erie and the surrounding towns were to be here, too. 
Vince Burke 

Members of the West Penn club will be specifically interested in Turk Meincrt's "tour" as guest conductor this month for the class of '28. Turn to the *2S section of the class news. 
WEST VIRGINIA 
Hugh J. I^er. ex. '32, 104 Capitol St. 
Charleston. President; John Cacklcy, '37, 
1521 Lee St, Charleston, Secretary. 

The local club has announced its intention of running a "special" to the Southern Cal game. It will leave Charleston, Friday night. November 24, and arrive in South Bend the next morning. Approximately 75 fans (we hope) are expecUng to make the trip. 
Cy Reich, a native New Yorker and mem­ber of last spring's graduating class, is a new addition to the Charleston club. He is em­ployed by Carbide and Carbon Corporation. 
Lou ZonUni, flashy halfback on the present football squad, spent the summer working in the state capitol here. He is from Whites­

villc. W. Va. John Cackley. 
NOTRE DAME BOOKS 
(Continued from Page 49) 

are a "good many Matt Talbots in Dublin." 
Father Ward everywhere catches the rhythm of the people's lives and of their language which he brings out to you in their terms and sentences 
Oliver Hotel. 
South Bend 
FRIDAY EVE., NOV. 17 
FRIDAY EVE., NOV. 24 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley 
An attractive opportunity to meet your friends before the Northwestern and the Southern California games. Super programs, with foot­ball movies, short talks by headline figures among the coaches, newspaper men, radio men, as well as music, entertainment, refreshments and lunch. 
and in his own that are patterned likewise of a soft, slow beauty. The woman of the mountain speaks: "May Almighty God speed you and give you the height of luck." Then this Amer­ican, who has seen and sensed the Irish, comments: 
"That is how close God is to people, and people to God, in Ireland. As they say, God's help is nearer than the door. To tell the truth, Mrs. Devlin of Dublin has the key to much more than Alatt Talbot's room when she says, 'Almighty God is great': she has the key to Ireland herself where kettles and dogs and leys and donkeys are holy things. That is the way, indeed. Almighty God is great in Ireland." 
In this swift discussion, I cannot begin to suggest the whole of what I have found in this book, the plenitude of firm, bright detail, the delicate, definite handling of the lives of many Irishmen: the dances, the races, the fairs and the festivals, the crops and the chickens. Few writers have gone so close into the soul and soil of the people themselves. Father Ward goes down farther than other writers about Ireland, farther, for example, than Morton in In Search of Ireland, than Arendzen in The Irish Country­
•man. Beyond the phenomenii of liv­ing, he discerns the values on which such living rests: faith, hopeful pur­pose, and the dignity and grace of human personality forever unaffected by economic impoverishment. 
As I read this book, I "naturally compared it with other good stories and studies of the Irish: Paedar O'Donnell's The Way It Was With Them, James Stephen's The Crock of Gold, Sean O'Faolain's A Nest of Simple Folk, Frank O'Connor's The Saint and Mary Kate, Thomas O'Cro­han's The Island Ma7i, Maurice O'SuUivan's Tioenty Years A Groiv­ing, Daniel Corkery's The Hidden Ire­land, and Ernie O'Malley's Army Without Banners. I thought also of Synge and Yeats and Lady Gregory. These have not done better for this country and this race than Father Ward. Of course, their love of their own land made strong and worthy their writing of it. But "the strong nature in him" enabled Father Ward to compose the best volume about Ire­land by a "stranger" that I have ever read. I should not really say "about Ireland"; for this is a book of the Irish and even by them. It is indeed the honest book of Ireland, its feel­ing, its belief, its constancy, and espe­cially is it the book of such ones as "the wispeen of a girl" having "the sky over her, the sea and the moim­tains around her, and what she goes back to is the home, raised a few feet above the bog, where she has everything in her simple, bloodless, little hand."—FRANK O'MALLEY, '32. 
The review of News Is Where You Fi7id It by Frederic William Wile, '91, promised for this issue of the ALUM­NUS, has been delayed. It will appear in the December issue—Eds. 
STUDENT NOTES 
(Continued from Piigc 48) 
terest the students in world peace. Senior Class President Harry Bois-vert, Waterloo, New York, heads a peace pamphlet committee Norv Hunthausen, St. Louis, Mo., has a fine record as player-coacTi of the St. Louis Club soccer team. The club is undefeated in three years of campus competition the Metropolitan Club started off the year with a $300 sur­plus in the treasury. President Doug Bangert, Great Neck, New York, an­nounces that $100 of this has been given to a club member in the form of a scholarship the Commerce Forum has organized a placement bureau for seniors, under the direc­tion of .Tony Potenziani, Aurora, Illi­nois. .. . it will work with the Alumni Oflice Placement Bureau. 

November, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
» » »
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Announcement has been made of the fol­lowing engagements: Miss Elizabeth Joan Kelly and John V. Hinkcl, '29. of New York City. 
Miss Rita Fitzpatrick and James Carmody, 
•32. of Chicago. 
Miss Margaret Anne Goodman and Harold 
A. Shanaficld. *27, of Cliicago. 
Marriage* 
Miss Mnrj* Julia Meyers and James Vallely, '27, were married, October 4, in Kansas City, Kunsas. 
Miss Jane Elizabeth Fleck and Prank Pcn­dcrgast, '27, were married, October 28, in Chicago. 
The marriage of Miss Jeannctte Couture and Raymond P> Connors, '31, took place, Octo* ber 16, in Springfield, Massachusetts. 
Miss Dorothy Catherine Vandenberp and Martin W, Downey, '31, were married, Octo­ber 17, in Blue Island, Illinois. Patrick J. GoKKins. '30, was the best man. 
The marriage of Miss Susan Jarosak and Kenneth FishleiKh, '31, took place, October 
21. in Minneapolis. 
Miss Maria Valdes Dapena and Louis Godoy, *31, were married, October 7, at Notre Dame. George F. CostcIIo, *31, was best man. 
Miss Ann Mnrtc DuMont and Norman E. Duke, '33, were married. September 2S, in the Log Chapel. Notre Dame. 
ftliss Frances Marlon Kridel and Richard C. Carton. '33, were married. October 11, in South Orange. New Jersey. 
The marriage of Miss Marguerite Mary Bowcrman and Richard B. Tobin, *34, took place, October 21. in Macedon, New York. 
Miss Claire Beverly Donlon and Jack Nye Duffcy, ex. *35. were married, October 12, in Brooklyn, New York. 
Miss Mary Lois Foley and Norman J. Fredericks, *35, were married, April 1», in Detroit. 
Miss Aimee Elexis Posener and Jordan T. Hargrove, *35, were married. September 23, in Douglaston, New York. 
The marriage of Miss Audrc Yoder and Thomas G. Proctor, 'SS, took place. September 
8. in Goshen, Indiana. 
Miss Eileen M. Haire and Justin C 3IcCann. *37, were married, September 19, in New York City. 
Miss Madtyn Stephenn O'Neill and C. Rich­ard Jenncy, '38, were married, August 19, in BulTalo, New York. 
Miss Norma Jane Hering and John S. Ward. *38. were married, Juno 2, in Warrenton, Virginia. 
Miss Marj' Frances Mattes and William E. Bruse. '30. were married. October 14, in South Bend. 
Miss Alexandra A. Krawjewski and John 
F. Zdanowicz, '36, were married, October 15, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame.. 
Miss Helen Myers and John P. Carr, '34, were married, October 21, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Jane Doherty and Charles W. 0*RcilIy, *:JS, were married, September 30, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. Paul Nowak, '33, was best man. 
Birfhs 
Mr. and Mrs. C MarccUus Verbiest, ex. '20, announce the birth of a daughter, Grace Elizabeth, on July 19, in Detroit. 
Mr. and Mrs. W. Wade Sullivan, '26, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Alary Patricia, on October 4, in Algona. Iowa. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Paul Butler, '27, on August 23, in South Bend. 
A daughter. Patricia, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John F. Robinson. '28, on May 11. in Cheshire. Connecticut. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph G. Friel, '29, announce the birth of a daughter, Mary Irene, on Sep­tember 9, in Brooklyn. 
Mr. and Mrs. Carl Christianson. '31, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Sara, on October 20, in Washington. D. C. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Sirs. Louis Fautsch. 'a.*;, on October 12, in Dubunue. Iowa. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Eugene I*. O'Brien, *35, on September 23, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph O'Malley, '35, announce the birth of a daughter, on September 26. in Mishawaka, Indiana. 
A daughter. Joan Marie, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Glen Richardson. *37. on October 9. in South Beml. 
Oldest Graduate Dies 

Eber B. Gambce, A.B. '73. A.M. '76. oldest graduate of the University, died on October S in Pbrtland, Oregon. Mr. Gambce was 87 years old at his death, but retained until the end an active and devoted Interest in Notre Dame. Three of his four sons attended the University of Portland, conducted by the Con­gregation of Holy Cross, These three are now prominent physicians. 
After leaving Notre Dame Mr. Gambee spent five years as a public school teacher in Cali­fornia and two years in editorial work. He then took up stock-raising in Oregon and re­mained in that occupation until his retire­ment. He ser\*ed as representative in the Ore­gon legislature in 1889 and 1891. 
Mr- Gambee came to Notre Dame from Adrian, Michigan. On the campus he was a non-Catholic but in later years he was con­•-arted to the Catholic faith through the in­fluence of Rev. P. P. Cooney. C.S.C., famous Civil War chaplain. Even in his latest years, Mr. Gambee attended Mass daily. 
Rev. James A. Bums, C.S.C.. enjoyed sev­eral years ago a happy visit with Mr. Gambee in Portland and brought back to Notre Dame interesting reports of the school's oldest graduate, which were printed then in the ALUMNUS. 
Samncl L. Moore, a student at Notre Dame in 1867-8, died in his home in Memphis. Ten­nessee, on October 17 after an illness of five weeks. He was 91 years old. Mr. Moore was one of Memphis' most prominent citizens, haWng served as state and county tax asses­sor and as chairman of the County Board of Education. He had resided In the same house for 53 years. 
The death on October 17 of Rt. Rev. Slsgr. Michael J. Lavelle, LL.D., '20, rector for 53 years of St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York City, removed still another from the ranks of Notre Dame's honorary alumni. Msgr. La­velle. 83 years old and 60 years a priest, was a devoted friend of Notre Datne and Notre Dame men. His death takes from the New York scene a figure familiar in numerous Notre Dame activities. 
Ford Sterling*, 55 years old, who as George Stitch was a student at Notre Dame in the early I900*s, died in Hollywood on Octol>er 
13. The famous comedian of earlier-day mo­vies had been ill for several months and phy­sicians were forced to amputate his leg last August. The cause of his death was given ns thrombosis. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sympathy to Walter J., '22. and Harry A. StnWdreher, '25. upon the death of their father; George B. Pope, '29, upon the death of his father; Austin Barlow, *31. upcn the death of his father; Daniel E. Boyle, *38, upon the death of his father and mother; Philip Fritz. '39. upon the death of his sister: William B. Foley, '37, upon the death of his father; Joseph R. Farrell, '15, upon the death of his father; Donald J., '29. and Derere T. Plunkett, '30. upon the death of their mother. 
Before 1890^;,»^^*S,^,^S£r­
1890-1899 ^^ -' -^ MacNamam, *97, Saint Joseph's Sanltariom, Mcnnt Clemens, Michicmn. 
1900-1904 53*i* "S^'V.^sr 
OBUQIIISf iSlKIWWTi UmUUUk 

1905-1909 ISr-^^^^^tS^i"­
iqin Ber. M. I. Mattmwtr, 19M BucUd **'* " Are., ClereUnd. Ohio. 
]g|] Fred Stecn. IfiCS Pint NiUonml Bank Bnildinir, Chicaxo, lUinaia. 
191^ B. J. Kaiser. 3S4 Fourth St., Ktts­*• bni^Ii, Fcnnsylrania. 
|QJ3 Paul R- Byrne, University Librar>'. 
Notre Dame, Indiana. 

Father Thomas Clears* is the newIy-appointed pastor of St. Joseph's parish, Kewanee, Illi­nois. Since his theoloKy at St. Lawrence's Seminary, Montreal, Canada, and his ordina­tion for the Peoria diocese. Father Cleary has sensed in numerous parishes and has taught as well at the Newman Foundation. University of Illinois. 
1914. Xtenk H. Hayes, 406 Bank of Amer­**'* ^ ica Baildins:, Anaheim, Calif. 
1Q1 (% James £. Soxtford, 1534 Farwell *^** ' Ave.. Chicago. Blhiois. 
From Jim Sanford: "The class contn^tulates Ray Kelly, the new national commander of the Lecion. He has promised definitely to be present at our 25th Anniversary Reunion next June. His first ofTictal act was a \isit to the Veteran's Hos­pital at Hines, Illinois. 
"The class was represented at the Notre Dame Veterans' Reunion, September 25, at the Knickerbocker Hotel during the Legion Con­vention by Ray Kelly, Emmett Lenihan, Larr^' LaJoie and James Sanford. Ray Eichcnlaub could not be present but sent Austin Mc-Nichols, the chairman, a letter expressing his regrets. 
"It's a KcUchcr year so far on the team, with Johnny winning (as this is written) two out of three of the games (Purdue and Southern Methodist) with his too. 
"A letter from Larrj* LaJoic mentions that he saw Bob Roach (Muscatine, Iowa) and just missed Billy Carroll (Woodstock. Illi­nois) during the Legion convention. Next June is the time to renew those old N.D. ties without distractions. Perhaps we can have a War Veterans' Reunion at the same time. The way that *17 crowd dominated the dinner in Chicago on September 25, we can count on strong support from them. Let's have some suggestions." 
(Editor's note, in re suggestion above: Let Paul Fogartj-, '17, and Jim Sanford, two birds with the same thought, get together for dis­cussion.) 
1916 ^n™o*=lV F> Golrin. First Trust Bnildlnit:. Hammond. Indiana. 
A recent note makes known the plans of Senor B. A- Munecas, E.E. '16, Paseo 469, Vedado, Havana, Cuba, to enter his son at Notre Dame next fall as a freshman electrical enfrineer. 
1 91 7 Bdward J. McOsker, 104 So. Union *^* • St., Blcln, Illinois. 
191S 'ohn A. I^mmftr, 1110 Biffhth Ave.. *^ ** Bscanaba. Michigan. 
IQIQ Clarence Bader, 650 Flerc« Street, **'**' Gary, Indiana, 
199n I'*^ B. Ward. lOIS Block Bldff., 1^9 **'* " Angeles, California. 
From Leo Ward: "Received your card with reference to the copy for the November issue of the ALUM­NUS. That line about playing up the twenty-year reunion doesn't exactly appeal to me. Most of us, when getting out of school, look forward to getting back once in a while but now, when you begin to call our attention to the fact that we have been out of school 20 years, it directs our attention to the fact that we are becoming a little bit aged. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
"This was brought to my attention particu­larly this summer by two students, one of whom is on your varsity squad this year. They started talking about 'you old men.' Of course, we still feel like young colts and see no reason why we can't gallop about the green pastures—at least, see no reason until such time as we start galloping, and then .«wme of those spavin splints begin to show up. 
"I had reports from a few of the boys this summer. Gene O'Toolc, master merchant of St. Joe, Michigan, came through on his way to San Francisco to see the Golden Gate Ex­position. Gene had with him his eldest son who, incidentally, stands around six feet, three inches tall, which the class of 1920 will recall as some ten inches or so taller than his father. 
"I received a call from Mrs. Stan Cofall who was visiting here for the summer. She had the two eldest boys with her, each of whom is taller than Stan and just as good-looking. ^Vhat a break for the St. Mary's girls that will be! Stan is now the big oil man handling the destiny of the National Solvent Company in the city of Cleveland, • Ohio. 
"Del Edmondson called, recommending a student from the high school in which he- is teaching in Glendale, California. Apparently the shock of a student being able to pay his board, room and tuition and not wanting a job waiting tables so that he could obtain an education was too much for the good Regis­trar since they could not find room for him. The reason was that the boy was a transfer from a junior college, which would place him in the sophomore class when he went to Notre Dame and the sophomore accommodations had all been spoken for. 
"Clipper Smith, now coaching Villanova, spent the summer in Los Angeles with his wife and family and spent most of his time at Laguna Beach where he and Al Scott, locally known as the Honorable A. A. Scott, judge of the Superior Court, spent their week­ends swimming and lying about their accom­plishments. 
"Buck Shaw and Slip Madigan had their annual battle recently. This year Buck's team, being the underdog, prevailed, as is usually the situation. I*ast year when Madi­gan's team, St. Mar>*'s, was the underdog he succeeded in beating Buck's team. It seems to be a good bet to wager on the short ender. 
"Speaking of those around Notre Dame in 1920 now engaged in the coaching profession, I received a call from Earl Walsh, assistant coach of Fordham with Jimmy Crowley. Earl Walsh you may recall as being one of the members of the team with Mohardt. Ander­son and Gipp. Those were the days when there were at least three or four Walshes on every Notre Dame team. Nobody ever knew whether they were related or not but they were there in name at least. Earl reports that he stopped in Chicago on his way here to scout St. Mary's for the Fordham game and saw Dr. Ed Anderson, now coaching the University of Iowa. Dr. John Mohardt of Chi­cago, now practicing in Chicago. Alderman Rog Kiley, the erudite and astute attorney, is associated with Pat Nash and doing a very fair job of handling the politics of CVxik County. 
"Gene Kennedy is still unmarried in spite of all our efforts. He is devoting his eve­nings to bowling and his Saturday afternoons and Sundays to golf. Gene still keeps his figure and does fairly well with his health. It is reliably reported, as the war correspond­
November. 1939 

ents state, that Gene entered the California amateur tournaments at Del Monte this year. I have had no reports as to how he did, al­though it is again rumored that he was elimi­nated in the tiualifying round. 
"Joe Sattner is in charge of the Iicen.sing and good behavior of the brokers for the southern part of this state by reason of his position with the state Department of Fi­nance. Joe tells them what they can do more often than what they can't do and tries to keep them honest. Apparently he is doing a good job as he has creditably few failures as a result of improper organization or finance in connection with the brokerage business. 
"Earl Walsh also reported that Johnny Balfe is very active in and around New York in Notre Dame alumni affairs and he is also doing a very successful insurance business. 
"Joe Brandy is running a newspaper some place in New York. According to Earl, he gets into New York for the Notre Dame-Army game each year, at which time the old stories are taken out and dusted off and re­told. 
"Speaking of Joe Brandy, his old running mate, Pete Bahan, is traveling in the South­west. Earl Walsh saw him in Fort Worth. Texas, and again in Dallas, Texas, where he was endeavoring to sell his line to some of the oil companies. They enjoyed a football game. The last time I saw Pete was here in Los Angeles, and Pete apparently is not worrying too much about the food bill since he had picked up a hundred pounds or so and looked more the Johnny Ambrose in ap­pearance than the well conditioned athlete of the days between 1916 and 1920. 
"I receive periodic reports from Las Vegas, New Mexico, and have been advised that if Tom Trader says it can't be done, it might as well be forgotten. Although Tom is no longer mayor of the city or district attorney of four counties, he seems to have his fin­ger in the political pie. 
"I attended the lUinois-U.S.C. game with Bill Cook. Bill Cook may be remembered as one of the tackles on the 1912-13 team. He was present as part of the Notre Dame con­tingent at Sandusky when Gus Dorais learned to pass to Rocknc or Rockne learned to han­dle Gus Dorais* passes. Bill is still a sopho­more at heart. A more rabid Notre Dame fan was never produced. He told me he had been back to Notre Dame for the opening of the Rockne Memorial. He reports a lot of changes conducive to peace and cleanliness but not to the rugged individualism which was formerly experienced in the rat-infested subways of Corby and Sorin. 
"Ed McMahon, of Anderson, Indiana, who has been living here for some time, spent his vacation in Indiana. He spent a couple of days on the campus and, like everyone who has returned to the school, reports numberless changes in the way of buildings, golf courses and repairs. Jimmy McCabe, now on the Coast with the Illinois Central railway, has been of great assistance in showing the out­of-town customers the sights. 
"Leo Mnlqueen is in Los Angeles superin­tending the completion of the new Federal Building. He has headquarters in Washing­ton, D. C, with the federal engineering de­partment. 
"And now on to the Reunion—^May 31. June I and 2! Let's have some letters and some suggestions about it." 
1Q91 ^^^'^ '^' Doffjr, 1600 l^rmlnal Tower. **'*'* CaeT«Iand. Ohio. 
1922 Cc'^*^ ^\she, ICott'l Continental, Kitn­sas City, Missmiri. 
From Kid Ashe: 
"Jerry Barrett of Omnha, is still holding forth in his fair city, and western Iowa. Jerry is interested in some Iowa farmlands, also dabbles a bit in real estate. He now re­sides at lOS S. 49th Avenue. Apt, No. 3. Omnha, Nebraska. 
"Jim Shaw, of Des Moines, is a member of a firm dealing in municipal bonds. Brother Buck, of course, is stilt head coach at Santa Clara and his record over a period of years has been wonderful, considerinB the powerful opponents that Buck's boys must play each year. Jim says that Buck must have been short one or two tanks of oxygen, as the newspapers had it that Santa Clara was brinc­inp tanks of oxygen up to Utah for an early season game, which unfortunately ended in Utah's favor. 
"For some time we have had no news of Joe Shaughncss}*. We are now happy to ad­vise that Joe is still busily engaged in archi­tectural problems. His office is in the Reli­ance Bldg., Kansas City. Missouri. 
"In St. Louis. Doctor Dan Sexton is per­forming admirably. He is on the Board of Directors of St. Louis University Medical College, and was recently appointed to organ­ize a unit of that medical college in the St. Louis Municipal Hospital. Two years ago. Dan was president of the St. Louis Society. 
"Reports say that football attendance at the University of Iowa games has greatly in­creased this year, a fitting tribute to Iowa's new coach—Doctor Eddie Anderson. 
"Have you noticed the fine playing of the Detroit pro football team this year? Our old friend. Hunk Anderson, is partly responsible for same in his capacity as line coach." 
1Q9'% Fani H. GoHtner. 17 Cornell Road, West Hartford, Cotuiectlcnt. 
1004, J. T. Kayeif. Wm. J. Fedrick and **'**^ Co., Tntenintlonal Bldr-. 3tockeWIer Center. New Torfc City. 
This is part of Father Joe Rick's recent letter: "A twister hit us during the latter part of June and carried away one-fourth of our mission buildings, and I estimate that it will cost n thousand dollars to replace them. Why this happened we do not question, but we like to think that the devil is mad at us for stealing so many of his souls. Like every­body else our Bishop is hard pressed. I must undertake the burden of raising this sum and a little notice might help me." 
So . . . the address is St. Teresa's Mission, 
V. O. Munshirhat, Dt. Mymensingh, Bengal, India. A remembrance for Christmas would be ideal. 
iq9R; John P. Boriey, SOSG Brookdale Boad, Toledo, Ohio. 
"Fortunately for George Chao and the No­vember '25 column, a few of the boys are still crashing through with contributions and news. While we are on the subject of our unfor­tunate Chinese friend, please keep in mind that we are mailing him a second check so he will have it by Christmas. Let's hear from you fellows 'who forgot to remember.' 
"Andy Mclklnllcn. who is sales agent for the National Cash Register at 331 West First Street, Duluth. Minnesota, just enclosed his 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
dollar for George with no comment. Let's hear a word about yourself. 
"Paul Hoeffler gave me his contribution just too late to make the last Meadline.' Paul is doing very nicely here in Toledo with the Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Company. 
"Tom Coman, who is with the Associated Press and was stationed in Washington, writes: 
" 'Among the matters of unfinished business before which war and whatnot have delayed completing, is the matter of contribution to .1 fund for George Chao in Shanghai.' 
" 'I had a note from Armstrong saying you would receive funds and send them oft to their proper destination by September 1.* 
" 'Please let me know if it is too late to add to the collection. I have a piece of change here which might do George some good. 
" *I am Iciving Saturday night for Cincin­nati. Hope it will be convenient for you to let me know in the meantime.* 
"Let it come along, Tom, we can use it. 
"Jim Armstrong forwarded a five-dollar check from Hon. Vincent Harrington ivho had just come back from Europe, having made the trip with a Congressional committee. 
"Mike J. Adrian, P. O. Box 212S. Manila. 
P. I., takes the prize for the longest-distance contribution and equals the best amount with a five-dollar check. Mike writes: 
" 'I was very sorry to hear about George Chao's trouble and I hope that my little bit won't arrive too late. It's too bad I don't know his address as mail direct from here would get to him much quicker. However, it is still a little too far away for me to drop in for a week-end.* 
" 'I've been out here selling Westinghouse electrical apparatus for almost a year now and tike it very much. Of course, it is quite different from home and yet very modern in many respects.* 
" 'Give my regards to any of the boys you sec that I might know.' 
"So you see we have a good start for our second and final contribution to George and we would like to send it not later thAn De­cember 1. Jim Armstrong joins me in thank­ing the class as a whole for its splendid co­operation in this w^orthy cause." 
1 (|2A James A. Bonan* 127 N. Dearborn 
**'*'" st» Chlcairo, HI, 
Bert Dunne was on the campus for the PVrdue game, saw many old friends in a short time, and talked to Prof. Cooncy's journalists. Bert is the Pacific Coast representative for Campbell-Ewald, Detroit advertising agency, and had been in Detroit. He is continuing with his writing and radio work, and 'Collier's' is using an article of his on Slip Madigan. 
When he got back to San Francisco. Bert wrote: 
"Noticed in the October ALUMNUS that you want some Coast news. Here it is—quick: Elmer W>-nne, '27, ex-Rockne great, is now riding high as a radio and magazine repre­sentative in San Francisco . . . Bernard Abrott, *28, ex-cheer leader, has two jobs. He's attorney for the Federal Housing Com­mission and also referee in bankruptcy. He's really bearing down and going places . . . 
J. Sam Dunne, '28, is the master-mind at Santa Clara as general manager of athletics. . . . Dick Fuite, '25, who incidentally married a girl who was the first air hostess in the nation, is with Columbia Steel and plays golf at Lakeside in San Francisco where he has a four handicap. Fuite has terrific power oft the tees. 
"Tom Darkin,.*37, the kid from Texas with the sweet eyes, is also in radio with KROW— a Columbia outlet—in Oakland. Tommy cre­ated, sold and is producing a football pro­gram this fall. It's nice to see Notre Dame turning out smart young fellows like Durkin. . . . Jack Gallivan. '37, is doing radio promo­tion for the Salt Lake 'Tribune and Tele­gram.* He is also a producer. He's smart, too. Gallivan also writes on the sheet and does some executive work during lunch-time. He's going all the way before he's through." 
1927 ^*^^vh M. Boland, Athletic Office. Notre Dame. Indiana. 
BULLETIN: Muse Boland EOCS to Verse-town. See page 71. 
Paul Butler, leading young attorney in South Bend, has added to his numerous other duties those as attorney for the South Bend Board of Education. He will take over the new job on December 1. 
Jim Hanrahan, the legal light of Frankfort, Kentucky, was in for the Purdue game. Re­ports from down there indicate that Jim will be the next prosecuting attorney of his county. 
Hnghie McCaffery—or, if you must be for­mal. Lieut. Hugh F. McCaffery. is, and has been for the past eight months or so, stationed with the Air Service at Hickan Field, Hawaii. A grand letter from Hugh says that, despite hula girls, guitars, soft music, and perfect climate, he is yearning, as never before, to climb the front steps of the Main Building. He won't be back to the Mainland for two more years though. 
The "Catholic Universe-Bulletin,** Cleve­land, carried in its October 6 edition a letter written by Francisco Lopez, of Spain, to the '27 Cleveland gang: Joe Sweeny, Father Jim Moran. Jack Reidy and Clayt Leroox. Fran­cisco {also called "Paco"—little Francis) told of the terrifying conditions in Spain under the Red rule. He and his brother. Ramiro. came through the Spanish war safely, but only after horrible experience and intense suffering. 
1 Q9a IxNtis F. BncUey, 908 E. Cedar St.. ^^^^ Sonth B<nd. IndlazMi. 
From Turk Meinert, news of the '28 and the Pittsburgh fronts: 
"I would like to congratulate Louie Buckley upon the marvelous job he has done the past eleven years in keeping all the members of the class of '28 informed of each others' activities. I think the entire personnel of our class owes Lou a silent vote of thanks. He certainly has been faithful all these years and I personally wish him all the luck and happi­ness this world can bestow upon him. 
"John Ryan, '26, our most able president, is doing a fine job of prezing and is still keeping the Forest Lumber Co. in fine busi­ness : besides his many other activities with the Traffic Club of Pittsburgh, the Boys Scouts of Allegheny County, etc 
"Leo A. Schneider. '28, of whom we have seen very little the past few years, due to his sojourn in Florida, is now the father of three boys, Leo Jr., Andrew, and John, and one girl, Bernice. Not bad, eh! I wonder how many of the '28er3 can equal that record. Any one that can, kindly advise Leo at his home, 45 Creighton Avenue, Crafton. Penn­sylvania, as Leo is always open for construc­tive criticism. 
"Fritz Wilson, '2S, as you probably all know, is now an old married man; or at least he thinks so. If he thinks so now, I wonder how he will feel after he tries to fill 5.000 orders for Notre Dame-Camesie Tech tickets. His clothing' and ereneral haberdashery store. (pluB for Fritz!) on Smithficld Street reminds one of our Union Depot around five o'clock these days. Every one wanting tickets on the 50-yard Jine. Fritz is to be conBratulated for the hard work he has done along these lines. 
"Jack Shcedy, '28, the most successful insur­ance man in the cit>-, is still with the Reliance Life Insurance Company and going great guns, just like he did in his college days. You all remember curly-headed Jack, boys. Well, the curls are still there but not so many. 
"George J. Schill, '27. is our man behind the Pittsburgh Plre Department. It is George's job to see that all fire equipment is kept in A-1 shape. He attends all fires and sees to it that they are put out promptly. In general, he is Chief SchUl to all us boys. George flew to the coast this past summer and he con­tacted quite a large number of the '28ers, re­porting all doing -well. 
"John 'Red* Reardon. '22, is a real estate expert for the Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board. 
'•Ed 'Oats* Byrnes, '25, is still with the Byrnes and Kiefcr, flour and baker supplies, and. the last time I talked to Ed, he reported that business is booming. 
"Al Dicbold, '27, who worked tremendously hard for the Rockne Memorial here in Pitts­burgh, is still keeping the Forest lumber sales way above par. Al is still hard at his golf game: at our recent get-tORethor at the Wild-wood Country Club. Al turned in one of the lowest scores of the afternoon. 
"Dr. Leo O'Donnell, *17. Jefferson Medical School. '21, is a member of the surgical staff of the Mercy Hospital; assistant professor of surgery at the Unix-ersity of Pittsburgh and director of health at Duquesne University, Leo has been one of the most faithful Notre Dame men in our community. He has been instrumental in sending quite a number of our local boys to Notre Dame and in general he has been the guiding light behind our alumni organization. 
"John McMahon, '28. is connected with the Air Hygiene Foundation in the Mellon Insti­tute. John is chairman of our local Place­nient Department and enoj'ing success in this particular field. Cooperation from all Notre Dame men would be appreciated by him. 
"Eogcne 'Smokle* Coyne, '33, who was re­cently married, has taken one of his father's houses in the new Coyne Plan located on Fer­guson Road. Hampton Township. Besides his insurance connections, he Is also directing the destinies of the Young Republicans in Alle­gheny County. 
"Edward O'Brien, '34. is connected with the Hemphill Noyes and Company, stock brokers. Eddie keeps us in form of the trend of the market. 
"Bud Boyle, '24, is a practicing attorney, and his spacious offices are located in the Law and finance Building on Fourth Avenue. We understand that Bud is chairman of the speakers committee for the Democratic organ­ization, and in the recent primaries he did a noble job of engaging worthy and able speakers. 
"Jack Barr. '24. of whom we see very little. 
was last seen at the ^^lldwood Country Club this summer. 

"James O'Toole, '21. president of City Council of the city of Pittsburgh, won the Democratic nomination for district attorney in the recent primaries. We wish Jim contin­ued success in his political career and hope that he comes out on top in the general elec­tion in November. 
"Dr. • Richard O'Toole, ':I0, is a practicing 

M.D. located on Butler Street, Lawrenceville. 
"John O'Toole, '25. and Charles Oloole, *23, have not been seen lately at any of our lunch­eons, nor our activities during the past year. Let's hope they get around the iwming year. 
"Dr. Frank Heffarty» '28, is following in his father's footsteps and is located in the Medi­cal Arts Building, Fifth Avenue, in the city. Frank has been a trifle negligent recently in attendance, but we can account for his tar­diness, 
"Robert Strickel, '28, after auditing the books of all the hotels in Atlantic City, final­ly secured himself a position as chief auditor of a very prominent hotel in Washington, 
D. C. Bob was home at Christmas last year and called on me. but unfortunately I WTIS not at home at the time of the call. However. I would appreciate a personal letter from Bob. 
"William Magarral, '32. is sUIl dispensing both soft and hard drinks at the Magarral Cafe on Fifth Avenue. Magarral's Cafe has always been a rendezvous for Notre Dame men and it is at his establishment, for the benefit of visiting Notre Dame men, that Notre Dame traditions and sessions still prevail, Billie always has a most cordial welcome for Notre Dame men and their friends. 
"Don Rj'an, '27. who recently moved from Montana to our city, is living in Mt. Lebanon and is connected with the Universal Credit Company. 
"John McGovcm, former president of the Pittsburgh Club at the University. Is now at­tending Law School at the University of Pittsburgh, as are some of the other recent graduates, 
"K. Bardzil, '24, is handling the legal work for our relief organization in Pittsburgh. 
"As for myself, I am still with the local utilities, Philadelphia Company, in the Retail Sales and Service Department, located at 513 Federal Street, North Side, Pittsburgh. 
"Kindest regards to all the boys of '28," 

From I^u Buckley: 
"Andy Boyle and I met George Gordon O'Brien on the campus a few weeks ago. Gordon is with the Central Pharmacal Co. in Seymour. Indiana, 
"Dr. Dan Bradley was back for the Purdue game. I met Dan at St. Joseph's Church in South Bend the Sunday after the game. He certainly looks fine and hasn't changed a bit. He said he expected to meet Bill Brown, of the Wisconsin Browns, who was to drive back to Amity\'iHc, L.I., N. Y.. with him. Dan is married. 
"It is nice to be here on the campus where I can check with the Alumni Office to know^ that the guest writer for the month resiwnded to my appeal before the magaune goes to press. I just called Bill Dooley, who informed me that Turk Mcinert came through as I ex­pected he would. Thanks. Turk, for the favor. 
I am sure the '28 men will appreciate the fine coverage you have given us of the Pittsburgh area, 
"In order to be sure of maintaining the standard set by l\irk for the column for 1939­40, I am selecting Father Mnlreany, CS.C, to be our guest writer for next issue. Father Mulreany should be able to give us a reiwrt of the fellows from his section of the South. In order to assure complete coverage, will the follo\ving men please drop Father Mul­reany a note at Sacrc<l Heart Church, New Orleans.: 

"Troy Banner, Ed Burke, Bob Evans. Mar­tin Kirwan, Frank Quinn. Sam Romano, Leo Sdinltheis and Cyp Sport. The deadline for next issue is November 22, so have your notes in Father Mulrcany's hands by November 18 so he can pass them on to the Alumni OfTice by the 22nd." 
1929 '*>"*P^ P* McNamara, Attorney Gen­ami Offlce, Indianapolis, Indiana. 

From Joe McKamara, an editor once more: 
"Congratulations! The experts in the Alum­ni Office state that the response at this date, of over one-third of the class to the 'Who's Who' questionnaire, is far better than aver­age. Consequently, plans for the publication of the Class Directory are progressing rapidly. 
"To those who are pilgrims on the path of least resistance: we don't want to miss in­cluding the data about *you' in this booklet. By the very nature of the project, it is essen­tial that the information published reflect the situation of the class as of a definite date: therefore we go to press soon after this copy of the ALUMNUS reaches your hands. It you have not already done so. please fill out the questionnaire and mail it immediately. If you ha\*e lost the questionnaire, just state your residence and business address, the position you now hold, your experience and additional degrees, etc Above all. please forward some data today . . . we're as helpless as an oyster on the half shell without it! 
"Don Baldwin has a very appropriate ad­dress if one recalls the famous Inns of Court in which the common law incubated: it's 605 Temple Building. Danville. Illinois. Don in­sists that there is nothing to report about him 'as the life and loves of a country law­yer make dull and uninteresting reading.* A bit of sleuthing by your sec., uncovered that Don has distinctly understated the situation. A number of very notable victories (which Don would undoubtedly say were 'breaks') in­sure Don of a place in Danville, which will lead to the verj* satisfying type of success and satisfaction that can only come to a practitioner who is a friend of man in the communities that are off the beaten track. . . . Since we are in the red tape worm division we might as well tell you about RtUMll F. Cbriste, who is with the Legal Aid Bureau of Detroit. After obtaining his 
A.B. in '29 Russell headed for Georgetown and took an LL,B. in 1931. Roommates at Georgetown were John J. 'Hooks' Reatber and Dave Fields. Returning to the old home town. Detroit, Russ married, in August, 1935. a De­troit girl, whose presence pivots the passer­by. Russ is anxious to hear from Bill Krieg. the O'Connors, Red Looghran, Bob Tyler and George Fitcfa. 
"Out Omaha way the old lawyers are nod­ding their heads and saying that George F. Coffan is one of the 'real comers* in the law profession. George has his office at 618 Far­nam Building and has a host of friends. Fact is, George has taken part in every political 
November. 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
campaign since 192,9 and has been a candidate for several local ofTices. In that respect, he is in the 'still trying* class. About six years ago George married one of those Nebraska beauties who make your breath come in short gasps when you first meet her. It's putting it rather mildly to say that George is the prouH father of a five-year-old son, so perhaps I'd better gi\*e a direct quotation on that point: *Elmer Layden will want to look this lad over in the years to come, because I feel confident he will make fast company for Notre Dame.' That's the way that George modestly sums up the situation. 
"William D. Aranyos has been continuously employed as a metallurgist (we have always been as inquisitive as a tape worm -with ref­erence to that sort of a job) at the National Tube Company, Lorain, Ohio.—save for the year 1931-1932 when Bill did graduate work at Carnegie Tech. Back in the summer of 1933 Bill had the good judgment fo marry Ruth L. Schwalm of Chicago, but so far he doesn't have to read the funny papers aloud on Sun­day morning. Bill reports that his old side kick, Joe Svcte, is a member of the school board in Lorain and a •prosperous barrister. . . . Fred Ferguson, AI Thomas and Bill get together every day or so: he reports that both arc doing well in the legal profession . . ­Dr. Charley Guth of Elyria gets arounds about once a week and is still a great football fan. . -. John Igoe is the sales manager for the National Tube Company at its St. I^ouis of­fice . . . Bill wants to thank Sylvester J. *Doc' Dougherty for his consistent Christmas correspondence. 
"Ex-Dome Editor and star debater Thomas 

A. Keegan has opened his law office under the firm name of Kecgan and Ruttenberg at 70S Forest City Bank Building, Rockford, Illinois. 
"And now for the Kound-Up (Eastern Divi­sion) : 
"Connecticut is represented by Joseph K. Martin, who is the head of the mathematics department at the Cloonan Junior high school. Stamford, Connecticut. Joe is director of the Stamford Teachers' Association, a cabinet member of the S.T.A., a bi-partisan political organization, a representative of the National Educational Association of Sunday Schools. Joe is married and has two children . . . John M. Ginz is credit and collection manager of Associates Investment Corporation, "Water­bury, Connecticut branch, and offices in the Broun Building. John is married and buys shoes for the baby on Mitchell Ave, Cheshire . . . Francis D. Aheam is in the underwriting division of the Traveler's Insurance Company at 700 Main Street, Hartford. Fran's lovely wife answers the 'phone at 12S Brook Street, Hartford. 
"The New York Roll Call: William P. Dow­dall is treasurer of the National Market Com­pany, Inc., and Federal Market Company, Inc., with offices at 290 Main Street. Buffalo. Bill, who has been deputy grand knight of the Knights of Columbus, lives at 135 Doncaster Road, Kenmore, is married and has two chil­dren . . . Joe Angelino is in the IT. S. Engi* neer's office, 504 Federal Building. Buffalo . . . It's Coroner Frank P. E[ane» M.D., whose offices are at 72 Riverside Drive, Binghamton. Frank is married and can be found at 72 Riverside Drive, when the demands of a flour­ishing private practice and of the duties as Broom County coroner do not interfere . . . The general insurance business around Og­densburg is very ably taken care of by Joseph 
T. Bamett. A phone call to 2G4-J will reach his office in the Utilities Building without fail .. . Up at Batavia. we find Donald M- Dona­hue, whose law office is at 62 Main Street. 
Donald is one of the few men who have eluded matrimony, probably because he has been pretty busy being special district attor­ney of Genesse County and secretary-treasurer of the Genessee County Bar Association- . . . 
"Behind the desk marked 'President' of the Brimar Corporation and the Marbi Corpora­tion is James M. Curry, whose residence is at 540 East Shore Road, Great Neck, Long Is­land . . . Over at New Rochelle, a 'phone call lo 410-M will put you in touch with Joseph A. Mariano, Jr. His address is 193 Union Ave­nue. New RochcIIe . . . Our old friend. Joseph 
J. Daigneanlt is executive director of the 'Jo­seph Daigneault Toilet Preparations' enter­prise at 17 East Main Street. Malone. Joe is married and has three children to carry presents home to at 3411 Monroe Avenue, Chi­cago, from which be commutes . . . The dis­tribution of Lincoln-Zephyr cars to the dealers of the Ford Motor Company in the New York City area is being ably taken care of by Oliver F. Schcll, whose ofHces are at 1710 Broadway and w-ho resides at 419 West 119th Street. Schell earned the degree of master of business administration at New York Uni­versity in 1935 and bachelor of laws at St. Lawrence Universib* in 1938. He has been admitted to the bar of New York state and has been verj- active in Knights of Columbus activities. 
"In New York, Philadelphia and throughout the south, when you think of the 'National Geographic Magazine' you think of Harley 5L McDcvitt. Harley is married and resides at 48 Howe Avenue, Passaic, New Jersey. His business address is 'National Geographic Mag­azine,* New York City . . . Dave Fields is the special assistant to the attorney-general of the United States, assigned to the anti-trust divi­sion in the New York office. Dave took his 
LL.B. at Georgetown and has been associated with the Department of Justice since August, 1930. Dave's official address is Department of Justice, Washington, D. O.. and bis residence is at 4SS Nimicfc Street. Sharon. Pennsylvania. We can't understand it, but it seems that the girls around Sharon, New York, and Wash­ington have permitted him to escape un­scathed to date . . . Walter A, Donnelly is engaged in the private practice of law and specializes in the trial of accident cases for insurance and traction companies. Walt's of­fice is at 332 East 149th Street. New York Ci^, and every evening he reports home to his charming wife and three football stars at 3900 Grcystone Avenue. Shure, and I should be after mentioning that he is now president of Division No, 7 of the Ancient Order.of Hi­bernians of Bronx (bounty .. . A resident surgeon at New York Hospital is John Law­rence Sullivan. M.D. The doctor took his med­ical degree at Northwestern University in 1934 and has spent the last five years in sur­gical tnuning at different New York hospitals. His address is 525 Enst 68th Street, and since he is undoubtedly a very eligible bacheor. will mention the 'phone number: Regent 4-6000. 
"In New Jersey: Track coach at Trenton, New Jersey, is Peter J. Morgan, who is also assistant camp director at Camp Mc^fahon at Pittstown, New Jersey. Pete would appreciate some information about Ken Boagnt [So would the Alumni Office.] Also, in the teaching game is Jerome E. Onellctt, who is a physical train­ing teacher with the Jersey City Board of Education. Jerry is married and has two children, and lives at 135 Randolph Avenue, Jersey City . . . Sam A. Colarasso is prac­ticing law at 60 Park Place, Newark. Sam siwnt a year at the Harvard Law School and took his bachelor's legree at Boston Univer­sity in 1933. He is the vice-president of the Michael F. Waldron Association, and has served as historian of Phi Delta Phi legal fraternity. Sam lives at 576 Sandford Ave­nue. Newark, and would appreciate Us friends calling him at Essex 3-4417 .. . A medical practitioner, with special interest in the field of tuberculosis is Dr. Cieorge J. HeDonneU, who received his medical degree in 1933 from Cornell University. George is at present a member of the visiting staff of the Monmouth Memorial, the Fltkin Memorial and the Allen-wood Hospitals. In addition, he is the vice-president of the Freehold Uon's club and as­sistant secretary-treasurer of the Monmouth County Medical Society. George is presently unmarried, residing at 80 West Main Street, Freehold, New Jersey. 
"In Massadiasetts: The club manager and steward at the Wrentham State School at Wrentham is our own Charley Colton. Char­ley must have a good defense in the moonlight since he is still single after 10 years of eligi­bility. If you get near Wrentham. call him up. The 'phone number is the easiest to re­member; 24 . . . And John Francis Patrick Burke is also teaching, being located at the Clinton High School in Clinton. J. F. P. is married and has one child. His address is 297 Chestnut Street . . . The national oratorical champion of our day and debater extraordi­nary. James C Roy, is practicing law at 31 Exchange Street, Lynn. Jim got his A.B. at Notre Dame in '29. and a broad A and an 
LL.B. from the Harvard Law School. He has been engaged in the practice of law since No­vember. 1933. and has been since September. 1937, and is now. the assistant district attor­ney for the Eastern District of Massachusetts. Jim is quite prominent in professional circles and is special committemen of the Essex Bar Association. Roy married one of the most beautiful girls in Massachusetts and they are living happily ever after at 24 Waldron Street, Marblehead. Oh yes. we have tt on good authority that Jim's experience in winning the Breen medal and similar contests at Notre Dame stand him in good stead: he's substi­tuted the oration for the lullaby in a crib-side manner that's marvelously effective. 
'^Robert J. Brennan. who was the assistant merchandise manager at the John Wanamaker Store in New York City, is now the district manager, with offices at 183 Liberty. Street, Springfield. Bob is married, has three children, his residence address is Cliffwood Street, Lcnos. . . . One of the hardest working '29ers Is John 
B. Sullivan of 33 Hawthorne Street, Spring­field. John is supervisor of staff training for the Massachusetts State Employment Service, western district; and in addition is a teacher of Business English at the Classical Evening High School of Springfield. John turned his back (temporarily) on a very bright political career—he was a member of the Democratic City Committee of 1934 to 1937. but resigned to accept the position of supervisor of staff training with tiie State Employment Service. John's ofHce is at 282 Dwight Street in Spring-­field. 
"In Pennsylvania: As office manager of the Universal Credit (^mpany in Johnstown, we find Francis J. Bnckley. Fran is married and has one child. His office is at 607 Main Street and his residence 825 Cbleman Avenue. . . . Over at Erie, Gerard P. O'Connor is prac­ticing law with offices at 512 Masonic Temple. After snaring his A.B. at Notre Dame in *29, he received his LLB . from Duquesne in 1931. Gerry is professor of Business Law at ViUa Marie College and at Cathedral College, Erie Branch of St. Vincent College, Latrobe. He is still single and Is living at 929 West Ninth Street, Erie .. . As patent attorney for the Bethldiem Steel Company we find Albion BL Griffin, who is married and has one child, has been taking care of the Bethlehem Steel Com­pany's patent problem since 1934. He lives at 316 East Market Street. Bethlehem. . . . 
**In Washineton, D. C.: One of the names 
that makes nen's is that of Representative 
John M. Costello of California. Handlinir the 
burdensome and complex detail of the Con­
jiressmen's olHce is our own Emmett McCabc. 
After takitiR his defnree at Notre Dame, Em­
mett took post graduate work at the Univer­
sity of Southern California, and in 1932 be­
came a member of the Democratie State Cen­
tra] Committee of California. In 1935 he 

became secretary to the concressman. with 
offices at 1421 House Office Buildinfr. Wash­
ington. X>. C. If business takes you to Wash­
ington. be certain to give Emmett a rinir. 
His residence is 1330 IGth Street. N.W. . . . 
Da\-id Lehman is highly respected in the 
Senate Office Building as the man who very 
capably takes care of the details in the office 
of Senator Johnston of Colorado. Being a 
secretary to a senator is a pretty good ticket 
to a neri'ous breakdown—^but in addition to 
all that work and worry, Dave finds time to 
do some writing on the side—in the incompar­
ably Dave Lehman style. 
"in Florida: The distinction of multiple ac­

tivity man among the '29ers undoubtedly l>e­
longs to Karl A. Kaschewski, who is presently 
the assistant manager of the Nitrate Agen­
cies Company at 1425 Barnett Bank Building. 
Jacksoni'ille. Since taking his Pli.B. in For­
eiim Commerce at Notre I>ame, Karl has 
earned an LL.B.. specializing in Admiralty. 
Customs and International Law. and in addi­
tion has studied painting under Johann Ber­
thelsen. Since leaving school Kaschewski has 
been continuously employed by "W, R. Grace 
and Company, or one of its subsidiaries, that 
is Grace Lines. Grace National Bank, and 
now the Nitrate Agencies Company. Thp.se 
positions have been of a financial. legal and 
merchandising nature. To cap off all of these 
activities. Karl has been wTiting stories as a 
side line and has been successful in selling 
this literary output for publication. Karl is 
married and lives at 3024 St. Johns St.. 
Jacksonville. 
"In Tennessee: Yes, in Tennessee it's Thom­as Rf. McNichoIas. for Tom is the secretary-treasurer of the Tennessee Newspapers. Inc. Tom is married, has two children and lives on Golf Club Lane. Nashville. Since leaving Notre Dame, Tom has taken law courses, and according to reliable Tennessee authorities, is an A-1 success story, complete in one enter­prising, energetic and pleasing package.** 
It's been recorded in several places, but not in the ALUMNUS that Lou Thornton, who taught and studied on the campus last year, is now in the C.S.C. Novitiate. Rolling Prairie. Indiana. Lou was with the Guaranty Trust Company, New York City, before he brought his Birmingham drawl back to Notre Dame. 
And there's the equally sensational news that Lou's former roommate in New York, John Hinkel. of the "New York *rimes" edi­torial staff, is engaged. See "Engagements," this issue. 
Registrar Bob Riordan sends along a note that Michael E. McGcocHan is, and has been since 1934, camp educational adviser for the Sixth Corps Area, U.S.A.. U.S. Post Office Building, Chicago. 
Bob Fogerty, '28, reports from St. Thomas College. St. Paul. Minnesota, that Clair Black-all, B.S. *29. M.S. '30. has just joinedHhe St. Thomas faculty. Clair got his Ph.D. from Cornell this past summer. His major is Mathematics and his minor Physics. 
1 Q^ n Bobcrt Hellnmr Hmnboldt BvUdhv, *«'*»v St. tool*, BUnonri. 
From Bob Hellrung: 
"Well, gentlemen, we have a word from our real secretary, Bemie Conroy. It is good to hear from the old benedict, and his pinch-hitting substitute welcomes the opportunity to warm the bench for a while and watch the old boy pitch them again. Here he is. . . . 

" 'After reading your notes in the ALtJM-NUS I finally decided to get down to writing you and trying to do my bit to help you along. I can appreciate what you are up against.' 
" 'I am glad that you took over the column as I have been very much out of circulation the past year, and the few people I see or hear from don't tell me enough to make it worthwhile. After all the'fellows get tired of hearing about just a few in this district.* 
" 'I am living here in New Kensington, which is just 20 miles from downtown Pitts­burgh but, since my office is just two blocks from home, I don't get around the city very often. The alumni club in Pittsburgh meets only on Thursdays at noon, so that a person out of town cannot possibly get in to a meet­ing.' 
" *I bad a letter from Dan Cannon. He is living at 1644 Westwood Avenue. Columbus, Ohio, and is still selling bonds for Bancohio. They are promoting the Jack Cannon Special to the Navy game and have sold 1,600 tickets. Jack is in the insurance business.' 
" 'Howie Smith was married this spring and now lives in Larchmont. New York. He is coaching a Catholic high school team in New York Cit>'. Jim Dodson is selling beer for the Duquesnc Brewery in West Virginia. Bay Totten is working for the Blaw Knox Steel Company of Pittsburgh.* 
" *I am going to try to make the Nax-y game next week and of course the Carnegie game here in Pittsburgh. Maybe 1*11 be able to pick up some doi>e at those affairs.* 
**How are the plans for the reunion pro­gressing? You know it has to be the best ever. On that subject I thought that if you could pick out some one in each state and have him contact the fellows in that state, he could arrange parties or delegations so that the men could attend the reunion in groups. You might publish the names of those who notify you that they will attend. I know that some of the boys would make a greater effort to be there if Ibey knew that some particular friend would be on hand.' 
"Thanks for the words of encouragement, Bemie. and for the tips concerning the re­union. Consider yourself elected to the job of organizing the Men of Thirty from the state of Pennsylvania for the tenth anniver­sary celebration, at Notre Dame next June. 
"Before the publication of the next issue of the ALUMNUS, a chairman will be appointed in every other state, and if. there are any vol­unteers for the job, please let them drop me a line immediately. Just as Bemie says, this reunion 'must be the best ever.' The Class of Thirty has a reputation for performing only in the superlative degree. 
"A new state has been heard from, and here is a note received from Spike England. Box 508. Winfield. Kansais: 
" "Don't faint—^I'm writing my usual tenth-
year note. Jean and I just got the bright idea we might take a run down to Notre Dame and see a game, and wondered if w-e couldn't get together. I'd like to go before it gets too far along, as I don't like to drive in the snow ... if it snows. T have no schedule of the games, , , . misplactKl it. No doubt you have one handy, so suggest one if you can make it. 
** 'Let me hear from you before 197.^. What do you say?' 

"Spike's letterhead reads. 'The AVlnficId ^Vholesale Grocery Company, Inc.,' with pic­tures of two large warehouses at Winfield and at Wichita, Kansas. If he will furnish the groceries, I'll supply the stuff that will keep away the frost-bite, and you can look for us at either the Northwestern or the Southern California game. 
"Congratulations to Don Norlon upon bis election to the presidency of the Notre Dame Club of Erie. Pennsylvania. Carry on, Don, and let us hear from you. 
"Dick Donoghuc will be chairman of the Notre Dame-Army Game Rally and Reunion. November 3. You men who intend to see the Army game, be sure to get in touch with Dick and £^ve him some news about yourself and your plans to attend the class reunion at Notre Dame in June. 
"We understand that harry Mulllns is still 

in New Orleans, and is enoying another suc­cessful year as head coach at Loyola Univer­sity of the South. Best of luck. Moon. Keep up your winning ways. 
"Another 'Thirty' Jcrrj- 3IcKay, of Minne­apolis, is holding forth as secretary of the Twin Cities Club. Jerry's address is 3450 Dupont Avenue. South, in Minneapolis. Our address is at the top of this article, Jero*. . . , How about some news about you Irish who live up there among the Swedes. 
"%Vhat do you think about our newlyweds. . . . Con Carcy^ the judge of Saranac X<ake. New York: Frank Swcenej-, who was married August 24, in Port Jervis, New York, and 'Doctor' Bob Braunsdorf. 
"They say. 'the older they get the harder they fair; and you who are still bachelors, remember that you are not growing any younger. 
"Before closing we want to comment on the fact that three 'Thirties' were blessed with additions to their families during the past summer, and all came through with prospects for the 1959 Notre Dame varsities. . . . And so, bouquets go to the Bernie Conroys. of New Kensington. Pennsylvania; the John Cassidys, of Washington. D. C.; and the Leo McAloons of Pawtucket, Rhode Isbind. 
"Johnnj* Bitter is still tn San Antonio. Texas, and is president of the Notre Dame Club of that fair city of the Southwest . . . which brings to mind thoughts of wonder about other Lone Star 'Thirties.' A\Tiere are they, John, and what are they doing?­
"We understand that Joe Lord! is writing so many orders for coal and oil in New York City that he has practically a permanent case of writer's cramps . . . which accounts for the fact that we have not received a line from him as yet. 
"Just remember that . . . with your help and cooperation . . . your pinch-hitting secre­tary is determined to stage the biggest TEN­YEAR REUNION ever held at Notre Dame. 
"Cheerio!" 
1931 Jolu> B«rvan, 838 £ . Colfax Avenne. 
•^•^ South B«nd. Indiana. 
From John Bcrgan. traveling representative: 
"The" football week-ends have been the scenes of a number of informal reunions, possibly the largest gathering of the class beinK at the Statler hotel following the Navy game. Among those present were, the Clevc-Inndcrs. Larr>- Krai, John 'SarRe' Raleigh, AI Grisanti, Joe Gavin, Clarence Kozak. Tom Conley, Doc Gannon, Father Paul Hallinan, Bob Morris and Boh Tischler. Amby Steepler, Toledo: Johnny Zaback, the Ashtabula morti­cian; Dr. Joe Hatches from Columbus; Char­lie Stallkamp of Detroit: Ray Ryan and Jimmy Scifert of Massillon; Al Romanin and Phil Prendcrgast wore also on hand. 
"Joe O'Rourkc, Bill Magarral, Joe O'Hora, Dick O'DonncII, Ed Madden, Jero" McKecvcr, Bob Kuhn, John Paul Jones and Tex Brieger formed a fine cheering throng at the Car­negie Tech game. 
"At the early home games. George Jacko­botce, hale as ever, Joe Decb. Gil Gaudie, Bill Leahy, Frank AfcGrcal, Leo Hodcl. Tony Keg­OH'icz, Jim Doyle and Barney McGIonc were a few of the class seen. 
"Perhaps the outstanding event on the fall social side was the marriage of Maria An­tionctte Vnledes daPana. of Santiago de Cuba, and Lonis Godoy, of Havana, which took place on October 7 in Sacred Heart church with the Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C.. presi­dent of the University, officiating at the Mass. After a month's trip through the States they will reutrn to Havana where Louie is an importer of radios and electrical appliances. George CostcUo and Tom Griffin were present at the event. 
"Barney McGIonc is a consulting engineer at Kantoul, Illinois, airport and is assisting in the erection of a number of hangars there for the government air school. Frank Schucll is in the landscaping business in South Bend. Gil Seaman is progressing rapidly in his gen­eral insunincc business in Chicago. Gil is one of the few remaining Windy City hachelors." 
Dr. Bill Gndek. 495 State Street. Perth Am­l>oy. New Jersey, is the city physician for Ptorth Amboy, according to a note • which Father Leo R. Ward kindly dropped into the Alumni OfTicc. 
10^ 9 Herbert GInrjdo. 9005 188th Street, ^^^^ Hollls, T. T.. N. Y. 
The editors got a large kick out of Fred Suite's "Back Talk." Vol. 2, No. 1, which Herb Giorgio has thoughtfully forwarded. In it is Fran Oclcrich's masterful letter to "Mr. F. J. McCarthy. Jr." With five pages, single space, the Oe'erich opus is unfortunately too long to re-use here. 
t noo T>onnId WIR^, 110 Pleasant Street, **'*'*' Jollet. Illinois. 
Ben Wcinstein, juvenile probation officer, and Loren J. Hess, chief adult probation of­ficer, are among those most prominent in the St. Joseph Valley chapter of the American Association of Social Workers. Vic Astone, 
•34, district supervisor of the parole division of the Public Welfare Department, and Pro­fessors Frank FI>-nn. Ray Hover and John Cronin arc also active in the chapter. 
TAOyt M. Robert O^hlU. AtW^+lc AMocIa­**'•' * tion, Notre Uame, Indiana, 
From Bob Cahill: "Well, me byes, your response wasn't good. 
The Notre Dfime Alumnus 
definitely not good, but then we have to have a little time to get under way. Here are a few dribbles of information that I have col­lected when able to come up for air in this hectic football season: 
"Jim Forrest, of Bridgeport, now in New York with the Bassick Company, -175 Fifth Avenue, says: 'Thanks for the letter with all the bad news (no Army tickets). l*m hoping to see you in New York for the big game. 1 was out with Paul Maginnis about a week ago: he*s a lawyer for some insumnce com­pany. Bill Powell, Tom Dalton, and Dave Froehlich all recently got married. Boy Jayncs' wife had a son in August. Good luck. Robert, and shake that team up—three points is too close.* Your secretary promptly 'shook the team up'—result, N. D. 20- S.M.U. 19. 
"Tom A. 'Kitty' Gorman wrote me from Omaha, where he's Marchy Schwartz' assistant at Crcighton. Tom was married this sum­mer, and reports that he's now a homebody. Can you imagine that? 
"Francis *Bud* Vitt, the Carbondale, Illinois, product, writes from Chicago where he is employed. He is marrietl. and I believe has offspring. If I'm wrong, correct me. Bud. I'm new at this job, you know. 
"Ed Sherman, long time friend of the above mentioned Paul Maginnis, stopped to see me in June a couple of weeks after the reunion. He was driving from home in Helena, Montana, to the New York Fair, accompanied by his mother. It seems Ed had started for the reunion in June, but something came up and he couldn't make it. He looked fine, a bit fat. maybe, but aren't we all? 
"I saw Bill Fromm at the Georgia Tech game, with a lady friend. He's employed as engineer for" Bob Hamilton's Dumore Com­pany, electrical tools. Racine. Wisconsin. Bill looks same as ever, and was accompanied by *Tawm' Flynn, of the class of '35. Bill said he didn't like our football team—In the lake, in the lake! 
"Bob Butler wrote for Navy tickets at the last minute again. Good old Bob—never fails me. He was married this summer also in the Log Chapel here at N. D. He is with United Airlines in Cleveland, his home town. Inci­dentally, your secretary (and Laydcn's, inci­tally) is traveling to Cleveland tomorrow with Jake Kline, baseball coach, to sec us take Naii-y. where I expect to see Butler and divers other N.D. men. 
"Was pleasantly surprised in the office be­fore the S.M.TJ. game to receive Jim Fagan. We had a brief chat, long enough to find that Jim is in a law office in Newark, and active in Notre Dame circles, although not so much over the hurdles as he used to be. He told me that Ed Fitzmaurice. the handsome drum­mer, has been transfercd to Newark office of the Burroughs Company, from Milwaukee. So you Newark guys circulate around and make one of us uncultured middle westerners feel at home, will you? 
"Bill Ayrcs and his charming wife will at­tend the Army game this year. They've heen trying to put the beat on us too, but can't seem to realiTC that South Bend is a bit far­ther from Yankee Stadium than Bingham­ton is. 
"A pleasant surprise happened to me when, on October 12, I received the following wire: 'Just rend of your appointment as secretary of class of 1924. Congratulations, Bob, and good luck. Sorry to hear of Jim's worldly 
65 

passing but know you will carry on. Kindest personal regards. My best to Elmer and good luck to team of '39.' And the signer? "Why, of course, that Notre Dame and Harvard I-aw scholar. Harry Rockett, of Dorchester. Thanks a lot, Harry-^ suspect a rib, but thanks any\vay! 
"Ed Mansfield writes from Denver to say that the Denver Club is running a special train to the U.S-C. game. They seem to have a red hot organization out there. That's quite a way to come for a football game, and they pack the streamliners year after year. Mans­field is chief promoter of the trip. I take it, and I hope to see him that week-end. 
"One of the most happy surprises I have experienced in a long time took place the day before the SJtf.U. game. I was sitting here working away (yes. I said working) when in came a rather unobtrusive looking chap, rather thin, but familiar looking. By the time he got up to my desk, I nearly fell out of my swivel chair into my private swimming pool (cuspidor to you). It was George Belting, who had been in bed for nearly three years with tuberculosis. He looked surprisingly well and is definitely on the mend, having under­gone several of those rib operations. I was certainly glad to see him. and he marvelled at the physical change in the University, as do all who have heen back since graduation. Speaking of Belting, has anyone heard from Joe Deftnan. Or better still, bow about a line. Joe? 
"Jim Doyle. *31. dropped in and told me that Bill Doyle. '34, is now in California work­ing on a ranch. Pretty soft. Doyle. 
"Johnny Youngen writes from Joliet, Illi­nois, to say that (in addition to Northwestern tickets) he is managing the Joliet branch of Eby-Youngen Company, and doing all right. He ran into John Sullivan recently, who is employed by the State of Illinois Unemploy­ment Compensation Bureau. He didn't Say which John Sullivan, so I leave that up to 
"Frank 'Husk* D'Hara. of Sandusky. Ohio, tells me that he is in the last year of law school, but didn't say where. He'll be out for U.S.C. as will Jim Griffin, of Rome. New York. If he isn't in court at the time—prac­ticing, of course, not as defendant. 
"And Ralph Else comes through with a letter which I will give you now: 'My con­gratulations etc. .. . I reecho your sincere wishes to Moscow. The purpose of this letter. Bob. is not to request any tickets or favors of any kind, so relax. I was extremely sorry not to have been able to attend the Five-Year Reunion, however, w^ith conditions as they are now I am kept extremely busy. I have tickets for the game this Saturday (Navy) and intend to see the game. However. I am still pulling for Notre Dame to -win [Secre­tarial note—???1 I intend also to take in the Army game in New York and I hope to take my father, one of our most loyal synthetic alumni, to the Southern California game. Perhaps I shall be able to see you at that time.' 
" 'I miss not having any club meetings. I believe the Syracuse Club is practically de­funct anyway. I haven't heard from them in ages.' 
" 'Thanks very much for that warning con­cerning Bob Kelly* I'll be on the lookout for him. Well. Bob, I'll try to dash off a more informative bit of recording in my next and I wish you the very best of luck on your, or shall I say, our. column.* 
"Thanks a million, Ralph. I wish some of you other gents tcould help fill up this space. Ralph, incidentallr, is with the Office of In­spector of Naval Material, Navy Department. His address, 80 North Street. Auburn, New York. 
"And now. kiddies, niRhty nisht. I'm back to work again batting out a huge pile of correspondence for that very versatile sent known as Elmer. Sec you next month." 
Tommy Grimes, Niles' contribution to Notre Dame track accomplishments, is now working for the Ball Band division of the U. S. Rub­ber Companj* in Mishawaka. 
1935 ^f^anklyn C. Hochreiter, 630 Saint Peter St., New Orleans^ I^nisiaiia. 
From FranklsTi: 
"Well, gang, here we are again and this time from the ^\lndy City where we have put ourselves up at 5S02 South Marj-land Ave­nue in one of the University apartments. We will continue to carry our home address at the head of the column so you can give Mrs. Scribe a ring when you are in the Creole City, and keep her busy with her share of this column writing business. She likes it —feels one of the class already. 
"Before leaving New Orleans we attended the wedding at the Cathedral of Jack McCar­ihi\ '31, to Miss Margaret Burke. Larry (Moon) MuIIins was the best man and as an­other '35 representative we found Dick (Butch) Pfefferle with Mrs. Pfefferle. Dick married Miss Anne Sfcmkemper here in Chi last May if you recall. Butch carries' on as Moon MulIins' assistant on the coaching staff out at Loyola in the city of political investi­gations. 
"Arriving here on the shore of Lake Michi­gan on the 29th of September we lost no time in calling the happy bridgeproom, Arthur Lucius Korzeneski out at the Parkway Hotel at 2100 North Lincoln. After he recovered from a very bad case of surprise and cha­grin, we were asked out that evening. It would seem that the Polish attache from the class of '35 is doing very well for himself. Both he and 'The Missus' appear extremely happy and are holding their own. 
"Art, by the way, is not practicing in the legal profession, but has accepted a position as 'Coordinator' at the Lane Technical High School—supposed to be one of the largest in one building in the country, some 2,000 stu­dents. Art admits he has not been around the entire building yet. and it's been over a year since he joined the staff. His work—well, as far as we can gather, he handles the dis­cipline, the promotions in R.O.T.C. and acts as general 'big brother' for the student body. He works long hours, has a full day—^and loves it. Nice going. Art! 
"John Clark and l^Irs. Eleanor came along during the evening and we had thought of convoking an alumni meeting of the "Wrang­lers. Jack and Mrs. C. look first rate and are devoting much of their time to the reiur­ing of the offspring. The real estate business seems to be prosperous—at least the Clarks are driving a new Packard. 
"Next day we went into South Bend for 

the Purdue game and ran into a x-ery few of 
the gang. Spent the game time sitting with 
Jim Boyle. '35 Law, and afterward while hav­
ing a bite in the caf saw Gunner McGrath 
(who continues to become bald, or should w-c 

have said exhibits a receding forehead?) Gun­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ner claims he is doing nothing at the moment* but is looking intensively for a wife Any likely candidates, please apply. 
"With the Missouri kid was Fred Locke Morris* brother. Word comes that Fred Locke was elected Alayor of Mexico. Missouri last July in a special election. 
"The surprise of all is reser\'ed in the name of our beloved prexie. He's the guy who went and done it and gave us all a blow. One of the first letters we received after our arrival was a short note that Tom had married Miss Audre Yodor, late of Goshen, Indiana. The date was September 8. More than this we do not know. Maybe we'll have more dojw next time. We do say this though, that we ofcr Tom and Audre all the test wishes for happi­ness, success and good health that the world can bestow, ani speaking for the class of *35, Tom—we are glad to know you have taken the step and joined the rapidly-filling ranks of husbands in the outfit. The Proctors are liv­ing at 108 North Michigan Avenue in Elkhart and Tom continues to practice the law in the home town. 
"On October 3 we attended the Chicago alumni club buffet supper and meeting at the Morrison Hotel. Chairmaning the affair was Wallic O'Brien, TTiere were not many *35ers attending, but we did see Tom Flynn, Bob Hogan, ex. '35, and Jack Clark. Hoped to get some dope for the column there but none was forthcoming. 
"At a cocktail party that the Korzeneskis arranged in the ballroom of the F^rk\vay on Sunday, October 15, for a couple of their circle about to lake the marital step this month, we saw Long John Ryan, Wallie O'Brien and Jack Clark. The wives of the latter two accompanied them, and w'e spent most of our time talking over things with Wallie. He is carrying on as father and provider and looking well in the job. The lumber business absorbs all of Wallie's time and from what he said things are looking up. (Maybe O'Brien and Clark could get together and form a cort>oration on the side.) 
"Mrs. Scribe sent on a note from Bart Catalane. Bart was in New Orleans on Octo­ber 14 and called the apartment. He was just passing through on business. It's the first time we have heard of the Newark crowd in a long while. Bart told Mrs. H. that he had been married for three and a half years and is living in Pittsburgh. He is working for the Mine Safety Appliance Company and has to travel a good deal. Thanks for consoling the 'little woman,' Bart, about separations and all that sort of thing. She enjoys hearing from and entertaining '35ers. 
"Last week our Field Work took us over to Mount Carmel High School and there we saw Johnnie Jordan and Wallie Fromhmrt. They both look as though this coaching profes­sion is a healthy one. John is athletic direc­tor and a coach, and Wallie coaches. 
"John told us that a bachelor party had been given the night before for John 'Bus* Breen. Another one of the ole guard took the bull by the horns on Saturday, October 21. Bus married Miss Jean Molyneaux at St. Francis CHiurch in Winnetka- Lots of good luck. Bus and Jean. Hope to sec you soon. 
"Before closing things up for another month we have a report on Geotxc Foss. George is now here in CThicago working in a local re­search department at the engineering profes­
"Looking through the "Marriage" Column 
November. 1939 
of the October issue of the ALUMNUS we note that felicitations are in order for more of our crowd that did not notify us of their plans. So here is an official hand shake for: ­

'^ m Scfaroeder who married Miss Mary Elizabeth Barge, September 19 in Atlanta, Georgia: Bill Bcrnbrock who married Miss Marie Cunningham on June 9 at Notre Dame; and Harold Goebel who married Miss Elizabeth Bunnell on July 9 in South Bend. 
"We think one more comment should be made about Jim Corrifan, who according to the supplementary' comments of the column last time, has entered the Jesuit novitiate at Florissant, Missouri. It came as a definite surprise. Since Jim has chosen the priest­hood the class wants him to know that we wish him the peace and happiness that only that state of life can bestow. 
"Well, gang, not too much this time, but we received one letter and one phone call (and that via New Orleans.) What do you say to getting on the hall and letting us have a word from you. How about suggestions for YOUR REUNION next May 31. June 1 and 27 The time for those ideas is now so that proper plans can be drafted. Send them either to the Chicago address or down to New Orleans. But let's have them if we are going to keep this column going, and if we are go­ing to make the '35 reunion a worthwhile one. How about it?" 
t9!lfi J<i^ Moraa, fil E. 95th St., Apt. 2. 
X*700 j.^^ Y^^ Qjy 
From John Moran: 

••SUCCESS AT LAST! (Aside to the Edi­tor: This column has really arrived .. . in a big Way, too). Of course we are referring to that hcarts-and-ilowers appeal . . . and its aftermath . . . that we made last month for letters and news from all '36ers. Seriously, we weren't really in earnest when we sug­gested working the mailman overtime. After all, he has fallen arches. 
"Yes, we guess our 'Go out and die for dear old *3G* plea hit the spot. We didn't mean to lay it on so thick, fellows. Forgive us. But let the record speak for itself. Now let's see . . . where did we put that mail? Yes, here it is. According to the latest count avail­able, we received a grand total of . . . just a minute, now .. . all set .. . a grand total of EXACTLY TWO LETTERS! 
"Surprised? Well frankly, so are we . . , but then we batted out this column last month without even a solitary* postcard at hand. So two letters represents an enormous jump. But then there is our old friend, Hal Williams, moaning in the *3S class column last issue about having only a meagre 11 letters this September as compared with 28 last Septem­ber. Two letters, mmmro. We're getting there boys! Watch us grow! Yeah, man! 
"But to get down to more serious matters. Our first letter of the month was from Jack Cashin. Jack reirarts that he was gradu­ated from Syracuse Law School last June and passed his bar exams at the first crack. Since being sworn in on October 6, he has been working with the legal department of the Utica Muttial Insurance Co., Utica, New York. Congratulations are in order for Jack, not only for passing the bar (legal), but also on his forthcoming marriage November 16 to (wc quote) '. -. . a beautiful Irish girl from Syracuse by the name of McCarthy.' Best wishes to you both. 
"The newlyweds will be on hand for the Northwestern game on November 18, so any of you who attend the affair can extend your congratuliitions in person. Jack writes that Tony Girmzzi is with the underwriting de­partment of the Utica Mutual also. Louis 'Butch' Hansmank the wanderer of the waste-hinds, is reported to be enjoying life at Kelly Field, presumably in Texas,' where he is a cadet in the Army Air Corps. Previously, Butch was stationed at Kandolph Held. Texas, where '. . , he has been training on low winged combat planes and Monterey bull Hghts.* Quite a combination, liouie. No cracks from the second balcony about bull throwers, cither. 

"Tom Vicara, roommate of the flying bull­fighter, is scheduled to walk up the aisle sometime in November. Congratulations, Tommy. How about some news from you and some of the other prospective bride­grooms ? 
"Tom MesKher will Anish up at Syracuse Law this June. Bill Byrne has been married for over a year and is now with the Central New York Power Corporation in Syracuse. Mark Finnochlaro spent a year in the Law School of the same University. At present Mark is out of •school. 
"Jack winds up his very interesting letter with a roQuest for some news of Charley Clarlt, Not having !=een Charley for nearly a year, X can't be of much help. Jack, except to write that I last heard of him goinc to Fordham Law School, night session. Inciden­tally, Jack's letter covers the city of Syracuse and its environs pretty thoroughly. How about some of you Imvs doing the same for your home to^vns ? The local Chamber of Commerce will probably back you for mayor in return. 
"The second letter of the month came from Wayne Thurm, who has been unreported for some time. Wnyne writes from Manchester. Iowa, to state that he was married on July 3 of the current year to Verda L. Anderson. Congratulations to you and the lucky girl. Wayne. On his hone^onoon trip to the West Coast, Wayne stopped off in Kansas City to visit Dick Kane, who is also a family man and the proud papa of a little daughter. Dick is with the Central Life and Security Associa­tion of Kansas City. 
**\Vayne reports that he is owned and oper­ator of the Oneida Consolidated Bus System. His new home in Oneida, Iowa, will be com­pleted in December, and all N.D. men passing through are asked to stop by for a visit. Mr. and Mrs. Thurm will be at the lowa-
N.D. game in Iowa City, so any of you attend­ing the contest can get in touch with Wayne, by addressing him in Oneida. Iowa. 
"And that winds up the roailbag for this month, save for a postcard from Walt Matuse­vich, who is working for Gihbs & Hill, Inc., engineers in Rockville, Indiana. "Walt, who seems to cover a lot of ground for his firm, was on hand for the Purdue game. 
"Short shots: Jim Kirby is now attending St. John's Law School (Brooklyn) at night. Jordan Hargrove, of the class of 1935. sur­prised us with the announcement that he had married Aimee Elexis Posener on September 23 in Douglaston, New York. Jordan can tell you all ahout the virtues of General Motors since he works on that advertising account for Arthur Kudner, Inc. Last spring, as we recall, Florida grapefruits were the big thing in Jordan's life. 
"Bumped into Joe Bandurich on October 11 as he and his sister were rounding the comer of 42nd Street and Fifth Avenus. Joe, who was down from Bridgeport, Connecticut, 
stated that he had been working for DuPont back in his home town. 
"Also met Luke Tieman. Tom Keenan, Sam Borzilleri, '37. and Frank Donlon, '37. at Ross' Tavern on October 16. Luke reported that he hasn't been in Winchell's column since last month, but othen.vise things are fine, espe­cially at the World's Fair where he works for International Business Machines. Tom is with the advertising department of the New York Daily 'News' and is firmly convinced that Notre Dame will beat Carnegie handily. Tom stated that Joe Mansfield, the golden voice of radio, is doing quite well, but his exact whereabouts escape me at the moment. Sam and Frank, who are both taking a cram course for the New York bar exams, expect to take the final legal hurdle shortly. 
"And that about winds up this month's wash. "We hope to sec a good number of you at the Army game t\vo weeks hence. In the meantime, remember our mailman has fallen arches . . . but he can still carry the mail. So, quick! grab that pen and help yourself to some of this big, empty colmun which we will have to fill, by hook or by crook, for the next issue of the ALUMNUS." 
Question to Mr. Moran: has a story about Baddy Goldman's recently-published song been in the ALUMNUS? Well, any^vay, the "South Bend Tribune" says that Buddy's "Florecita," a romantic song of the tropics in the tempo of the rhumba" has just been put out by Mills Music Publishers. Buddy did the lyrics for the job. It was originally written for an amateur musical production. 
Ted Prekowitz. of South Bend, who got his law degree at Notre Dame last June, has just passed the Indiana bar exam. 
La Mar Campbell, of South Bend, who spent a couple of years with the class of '3S. is back in the city after six years as a member of the capitol police in Washington, D. C. ^Vhile he was in Washington, he continued his studies at George Washington University and at the Georgetown Law School. 
193 7 ^^"' Foley. 1803S Schocnhocr Road. Detroit. Michigan. 
From Paul Foley: 
"Back from South Bend and the story-book finish of the Southern I^Iethodist game. You should have been there! It was definitely one for the book from start to finish. 
"As usual we heard from one or two of the faithful, but went for the collar as far as the rest of the boys are concerned. In short it's heen a dull month. 
"In and around South Bend and the Prairie Steak House were several of the lads. In the Chicago contingent were Ad Judea. not much changed and looking prosperous and well groomed while getting outside of a sizable portion of sirloin. Ad was in the company of Chick Maloney, who as usual, was in the company of a bevy. Both of the boys gave good, though brief, reports on the Chicago situation. 
"We understand *Bucky* Jordan was also around campus somewhere but we can't prove it. We looked high and low in the gilt edged new halls of Rockne Memorial and saw noth­ing but gorgeous walls, placques. 1903 tro­phies, and enough bright sea-green water to float a battleship. For those of *37 who have not seen the Memorial we can only say—^It's true, we have actually felt the walls—^but until you have, you'd never believe it. We couldn't help the mental picture of the old swimmin* hole over back of Carroll where a good backstroker could watch airplanes glide over the broken sDots in the sky light and a crawl artist was in danger of winding up against the wall in somebody's locker. 
"From over the hills to the East come the following dispatches: 
"Bill Smith, whose football prowess made him captain in 1936. is still at it in Clifford Scott'High, Fast Orange, New Jersey, and piling up another fancy record for the sea­son. Bill's team recently whipped the lads from Westfield High School. 7-6. while the populace yowled (in t\vo-part harmony). That makes 3 for 3 for Smith's lads. 
"Dick 'Pepper* Martin, roommate of Smith, carries on the tradition and is having a right merry moleskin season at Bound Brook High in New Jersey, which sounds as though it could do with a little loosening up. Might try all-bran. Data on Martin's season is a mite scanty but he has a winning margin. 
"The guy who used to be third from the end in the second row when Phy. Ed. school climbed on each other's shoulders to show its muscles, was Joe Moore. He is also in the Jersey football picture, building character at Glen Ridge High school. Moore and Smith wound up in one of the better Westfield spots recently while scouting each other, or a mu­tual opponent, or a rumor or something. At least they were scouting. 
"Still down East, but off the ticket scalpers' alley, we heard word of Frank 'Pinky* Hard-art, who is still batting the books and test tubes at Columbia Med. With Frank is Bob Gehres. he of the cow-Hck and copper toed shoes. Both boys are said to be doing well in boiling up the academic torch which the rest of us dropped just behind the glmnasium. 
"Bobbing blithely westward we pick up not much more than a rumor of Lon PnrccU. who is engaged in pursuing his first and only choice, aviation. We understand Lou is aim­ing at the engineering side of the profession. 
"The above information, along with other assorted oddments, came from the none too steady John 'Bucko' Byrne, who popped into Detroit one Friday p.m. to take part in a wedding just three weeks after he walked the stretch himself. The new Mrs. was on the trip and naturally Bucko found prosaic talk of classmates a mite boring. Marriage has reformed our Bucko . . . even to the point of wearing a derby, Chesterfield, and bulbous white carnation. Four persons mis­took him for Grover "Whalen and two others asked him for a hot one in the third at Hialeah. (Private to the Mrs.: He looked grand,) 
"It is alleged that DeLancey Davis is work­ing. The scene of the crime is roughly 15 miles out of Philadelphia and DeLancey has something to do with locomotives! We pre­sume it is not 'Casey Jones' Davis, but then. who knows ? Anything can happen. 
"Oh yes. we forgot, to those who would write Jack Byrne, he has a new white house on the hill, surrounded by one entire acre of Bryn Mawr (Pennsylvania). A hillside, a bab­bling brook, scrapple for breakfast-v-just the picture for a Valentine. 
"On the local front: Rising like the Summer sun one recent a.m. was the flaming thatch of Joe Gallacher, now the proud father of a carrot topped son. Joe is at Currier Lumber Co. in Detroit . . . aren't we allT 
"Another ex-tackle we saw recently was Art Cronin. not appreciably wider, beaming as usual and bustling about the business of Cronin Coal Co. 
"We have four yi>ccial obser\'ers assigned to the places where they use bar stools, to cover for us all the soings-on of the Army g:ame. If that doesn't produce a few lines, we better throw in the sponge and make for the storm cellar. 

"You should see the new linen table clothes in the dining hall—we predict no good will come of the thing. How can anyone play slide-the-salt-shaker over a hank of Irish linen direct from Michigan City? 
Additions to Foleyana: Cy Stroker, Mr. Foley's super right hand on that famed" Scho­lastic." is now down in Newport News. Vir­ginia, at the C. & O. Terminal, care of Norton Lilly. Cyril was in New York and a valued and hard-working member of the New York Club. 
Larr>- Danbom has forsaken coaching in Erie. Pennsylvania, to take a job in the sales department of the American Sterilizer Com­pany. You can call him in 1114 First National Bank Building. Dallas. Texas. 
Lou Alaman is now working in Gimbol Bros, department store, Milwaukee, but his plans are all set to take law at Catholic Uni­versib'. Washington. D. C . in February. Lou gave this report himself when he was down for one of the early games. 
Don Hennessey has taken up coaching at Central Catholic High School. South Bend, where Harney Foster, *39. left off. Harvey resigned to take up an attractive offer by Mr. Hoover's F.B.I. Don had been helping him with the work at Central Catholic, which is operated by the CS-C. Brothers. 
1938 Ha">Id A. TrUIIams, S16 East lAlce Arcane, Baltimore, Maryland. 
From Hal Williams, the boy from Baltimore: 
"The Blue Ribbon with Palms award for the month goes to Tom Shicls of New Rochelte. New York. The award is bestowed for the following letter: 'Just received my October copy of the ALUMNUS, and must say it was certainly great to hear about the lads of '38 once again. The news about Jack JCrowlcy being the proud father of bouncing triplets was particularly good to these eyes. Jack should have received "the most likely to suc­ceed award"—' 
" 'Put this down in your book of amazing coincidences: About four or five weeks ago I'm walking down Broadway in the Times Square district minding my own business, and just as I'm crossing at the busy intersection of 45th and Broadway, who do I recognize in the throng but Jerry Schaefcr! Hardly had I finished exchanging greetings with friend Jerry when who steps up a few steps behind but Johnny Schmitz of Tiffin. Ohio. Of course I assumed the two were together and so we just stood on the comer and talked for a few minutes. That was all fine, but after a few minutes Jerry looks at me and says. "Did this fellow go to Notre Dame?" Johnny backs away and says. "Yeah, were you out there.too?"* 
" 'After I came to. T took care of the be­lated introductions and was informed that they weren't walking together at all. and had never seen one another before. Yet both lads were in the same class, lived in the same hall. Alumni, and are both walking side by. side along Broadway 15 months later. I'm still shaking my head. However, it didn't take the boys long to get acciuainted. They had an awful lot in common and when last seen were both headed for the Astor bar.' 
" 'Larrj- '*Hook" Kerwin flew in to the city from Cleveland a. few months ago and we had a wonderful four days. Lawrence is doing fine, I'm told—and not by Lawrence— work­ing for one of the Thompson Products sub­sidiaries. Before I forget. Jcrrj* Sdiaefer was waiting on developmenLs concerning his job with United States Lines. The war. I'm afraid, upset Jerrj-'s plans to some extent. John Schmitz was still employed at the World's Fair.' 
. *• 'Heard from E. Kavanaugh last week and he is still located at Dallas with Braniff Air­ways. He and Pete Pcdcrscn are still rooming together down Texas way. Ed hopes to fly up for the Army game. . . .' 
-" 'Haven't heard from Tommy Atkinson at all since we visited the Bean City last Febru­arj*. I expect he has taken himself a wife by this time. Reminds me that Willie Gallen is all set to middle-aisle it any day now. Ed Bartnett, I believe, is still with the "Times" while your's truly is with a rival rag. Will Hearst's "Journal-American." ' 
" 'Spent a verj' pleasant evening with Jack Gillespie, *37, at the Glen Island Casino last summer. Ran into Gene Vaslctt there. Gene looked fine, and still working for the same firm. I'm still tr>-ing to sell the dance bands whenever I can .. . I meant to add that I saw Lennie Habig at the Meadowbrook in Jersey some months back. . . .* 
" 'George Fitzpatrick wrote some time in May saying that he would be down real soon for the Fair. However, I'm still waiting, and, for George's sake, I sure hope they run the Fair next year. . . .* 
"A swell letter from a swell guy. Come again, Tom. . 
"Several weeks ago Ed Bartnett, more re­cently known as Golden Boy, rushed into Balti­more while covering the Navy-^VUliams and Mar>* game at Annapolis for the New York 'Sun.* He asked me to be his guest in the press box for the afternoon, and we had a very fine time. Ed is still working as copy boy at the New York 'Times' (several weeks ago he w'rote the bulletins for the 'Times' news flashes on Times Square while the regu­lar man was vacationing). He covers football 

. for the 'Sun.* writes book reviews is New York correspondent for a Denver Catholic paper, and also manages to ^vrite poetry and several plays. Ed has also done a novelette. 
"Ed passed along some, information on the New York boys during the half at the Na\->' game. I made some notes and here they are: 'Cliff Tallman, looking more prosperous than ever, is now working for an advertising firm in New York . . . Larrj- Larkin, when last heard from, was on the extra list at Pennsyl­vania Station . . . Rumor has it that he worked at the Information Booth there for a time and then drifted South . . . George Kecn­an was in Rome during the summer and while there bumped into Jim McGoldrick, *30, . . . Hank Leader was working as copy boy for the City News Bureau in New York . . . Bill Marmict is a reporter for the New York "Daily News"... Chusk Beaslcy is still in the accounting business. . . .' 
"Ed said that he was covering the Notre Dame-Southern Methodist game. The other day I received a few lines from him on the back of a postcard showing the caf. Said the card, 'Here's the scene of many a bull session. TTiey're still going on. I've seen scores of fellows—the whole darn class seems to be here either for the game or for graduate work. 1*11 have lots of news for you when I get back. . . .' I haven't received the news yet but if it comes along in time I'll add it as a postscript and send it along to Bill Dooley. 
"And speaking of postcards. This with a Chicago postmark from Nick Lamberto, the wonder boy of the class, 'Notre Dame won 20-19. as you know by now. Am working and making more money than ever. Letter to come,' 
"In a recent 'Religious Bulletin' I noticed that prayers were requested for the mother and father of Dan Boyle .. . In the South Bend 'Tribune' I came across a picture of beaming Jake Lecfaner. I understand that he has given up his law practice and is now coaching a girl's softball team in South Bend. And while on the subject of the Bend's only paper: Jack Ledden, that sheet's Grantland Rice, had a recent paragraph on several fel­lows from our class: He reported that he had a letter from Joe Adrian Race. Joe is coach­ing'a football team in Los Angeles and work­ing as a studio property man in Hollywood at nights for M.G.M. [Ed's note: A seemingly authentic report on the campus a few weeks ago had Race in a seminary on the West Coast. "What's the real dope?] Ledden also reported that Joe Ruetz w*as still coaching the St. Mar3'*s football team as assistant to Slip Madigan and taking graduate work at the University of California. 
"Tiger McGrath returned for his second year of law at Catholic University and two weeks ago si>ent a week-end with me. Tiger states that Jero' Lcdvina is doing graduate work at C.U. and that Bemie Feeney, Tom Roach and Jero* Green, of the '39 class, are freshman lauTcrs at C.U. Tiger adds that he doesn*t think Jim Mulhcm returned to George­town Law. 
"Tom Hutchinson kicked through with a five page single spaced letter telling of the places he made on his honeymoon. He didn*t run into any Notre Dame boys while ram­bling through northern Michigan and Canada so further consideration of the letter will be dismissed for this column. 
"Bill Woemcr wrote from Los Angeles say­ing that he lost the last letter I sent him be­fore he had a chance to read it. Bill passed the 'Word along that he bumped into Joe Ruetz at the Loyola-Redlands game and had a four-hour session with him. An hour later he met movie actor Joe Race. . . . I'll write you again. Bill, but for goodness sake don't lose the letter. 
"ADDENDA: I just found several more names on the back of a Na^-y program: Tom Mulligan, said Ed, 'was in the topmost bracket at the end of his first year at Harvard Law . . . Rus Redgate is still reporting for the Bridgeport 'Times,* and Bob Mullen, the fellow who still owes me a letter, is hatting out copy for the Sears and Roebuck catalogue. If any of you farmers hpppen.to come across a mov­ing hit of prose in the catalogue setting forth the glories and advantages of a plow^ or buggy whip, it was probably written by our Bob . . . Vernon Rugee. when last heard from, was managing a farm in Indiana. 
"Bill Mahoncy, old T-bone as the boys called him in Brownson. is back on the campus for more law. For relaxation he writes articles for the 'Scholastic' .. . I wrote a long letter to Gene Vaslett several weeks ago and it was returned—^"address unknown.* I've for­gotten his new address but if Gene will send it ril forward the letter , . . I'm still waiting to hear from quite a few of the fellows . . . drop me a line or two on a postcard so the classmates will be up on the news . . . How about a word or two from Bill Robinson, the silent red-head in Detroit ? . . . something from Jack Crowley . . , Bub Crowley . . . Tom Hardart . . . Francis Bcny • . . Jim Blunt . . . Maur}' Kennedy . . . Tom Jordan . . . Larr>- Dillon . . . the other Bobbsey twin . . . Charlie Osbom . . . and Scott Rcardon . . . ?—T almost forKot to mention that Bill Cour called me from WashinRton recently. I wrote him a letter immediately, but haven't 

heard from him since. 
"I'm hcadtni; up for the Army frame with my moth.enten Notre Dame pennant, and I'll have all the dope on the hoys at the Army (nime for the next issue." 
Additional '3S stuff in assorted flavors: AuKUst Sidlcr is now in the Monastery of St. Felix, Huntinirton, Indiana, and Gene Gorm­ley is in the Holy Cross Novitiate. Rolling Prairie. Indiana, preparinff to be a Brother. 
Frank CosKrorc is workinir in New York City and nttendins New York U. 
Charles F. Osbom, Jr., is residing at 14 Hilliard Street, CambridRe. Klassachusettft. while attending Harvard Law School, and John Hclmer, of South Bend, is a freshman in the University of Illinois Medical School. Chicago, and residing there at GGflO North Ashland Avenue. 
Another '"8 man in the Holy Cross Novi­tiate is Hcnrj- Edward Wrapc, who, under the name of Edward Keegan, entered the G.S.G.'s on August 5. John Klisc is in the "middle class" of the Law School at Western Rescni'o, Cleveland. 
Joe Thornburg — and according to rumor, Frank Crowlej- also — is working for the Hart Drug Co., Lexington, Kentucky. Phil Tompkins, '29, is with the same company. 
193 9 Vinrenf DeCoiirst-y, 2.'>l N. ir>tli St., Kniisns City, Kansiis. 
From Vince DcCourscj-, secretarj- and broker: 
"The little yellow card came last week and was somewhat of a relief from nightmares of nightmares of big yellow postcards that keep dancing quadrilles and the Ballet from Faust and screaming about deadlines. Almost caught me unprepared, too; luckj* that there were so many mistakes in the first copy, else no one would have written denying things and there would be practically no column. 
"Things, however, are picking up : this month brought a grand total of ten letters and a postcard which, though not up to par, is better than the slim pickings of the first and summer months. But I do wish that there were more answers to those begging notices that went out some time ago. How about it? 
"The first bit of information that came our way these days of sagging markets and blasted British battleships was from Madi­son, Wisconsin, and the pen of Frank Parks who, with Buddah-like roommate, Richard Bcrgan. is enthroned at 313 North Charter Street. Both the gentlemen are attending the Wisconsin Law School, if week-ends from Friday noon can be called attending school. Frank says that if the roads are open he and Dick plan to attend the Southern Cal game, which should be good news to those undecided over Northwestern and Southern Cal. and to Mr. Herb Jones, who must be worried over the way Northtwestern tickets were going this year before Parks decided. 
"A letter, and a very nice one, too. from Ray Schleck. chased me all over the state of Kansas and finally connected in exactly two weeks, which should be some sort of a record. After a couple of pages of advertising for General Electric, Hay admitted that he was finally getting so he didn't mind the town so much any more. He and about six others were planning on renting a house, but at the time of writing he was living in room 313, Y.M.C.A., Schenectady, New York. And if Jim Walsh is not too busy with balance sheets and rubber sheets, Ray would like to hear from him. which reminds me that I would not mind a letter from *Waddle-Waddte* my­self. 
"Ray's asking about Tom Rcardon brings up a tender point. The greatest affair is to be held November l.'i, and, if anyone wants to drop down, he is invited to share a bed and, fight for a place at the table with me. Tom's working, as we said last month, at the Central Surety Company, in Kansas City, Missouri, and he and Dottic. whom most of the boys in Walsh met at one time or another, are very busy. If Dick Brown reads this, will he please drop Tom a line? 
"Quite a thrill was the postcard from Carl Frickc, who was or is: 'In jolly old England with the Tommies and Frenchies making it hot for the Fritzies.' which sounds interesting if not exactly accurate. Carl says that he just got back from 1,100-mile bicycle trip through England and Scotland, which was not made more enjoyable by having to carry gas masks all the time. AVouId like to hear more from the refugee when he gets back. 
"And speaking of the war brings to mind the fate of the boys in the class from Can­ada. Bob Hoag, one of those to whom we appealed, came through with a splendid latter. Bob's in Chicago now, working for Mont­gomery Ward instead of the jolly old king and alt his generals. Bob had this to say about the situation: 'About the middle of August I came to Chicago to live and although my folks are still in Ottawa, they will be out of there by the first of November. They find it not so pleasant now—business is bad, cost of living is increasing every day, and in gen­eral things are muddled. I guess it's all more or less natural in a country that's at war, even if the war is only in theory and not an actuality. They haven't started drafting up there—so far the volunteers have been suffi­cient to give them all they want. I doubt very much whether any Canadian soldiers will go across unless there is a crisis over there. At any rate, my folks figure there isn't any sense in staying there when they don't have to. I guess we're all very for­tunate that we retained our citizenship.' 
"And that's one of the boys who won't go over; how about John Wintcrmcyer and John Clemens? But Bob also had something to say about the fellows: 'Sam Wheeler is going to Law School, The week before last T ran into Jack Doyle and he's taking graduate work for his Master's degree at N.D. Tom Walker is working for the Mid-Hudson Power and Light Company as an embryonic salesman. Jack McAuliffc managed to get in on the ground floor when they organized a new news­paper {suburban affair) in Syracuse. He now is business manager and, from all reports, doing very well. Dick Benedict, from Evan­ston, is working for Ward's—^he's in the ad­vertising end. I ran into old Doc Carey not long ago here in Chicago, and he hasn't started working as yet—he's still recovering from an operation in which he had that bad eye removed. My old roomie. Bill Capillino. is working for the Shell Oil Company around his locality in Poughkeepsie. New York. 
"The old terror of the Economics Depart­ment. Tom Bolccr, broke down and admitted that certain things in certain of the courses have actually proved of value. Tom's work­ing with a real estate firm in Indianapolis and is. from the tone of his letter, doing all right by the job. A case history on the gang from Indianapolis was included with the let­ter: *Frank Lanck just got a job last week (mid-September) with some sort of insurance company. Frank Pittmmn is working for the Commonwealth Loan Co. Tom Gillespie went' back to N.D. for further work and bad meals. My old buddy, Jim Rocap, worked for a loan company and is now starting his law course here in the city. Jack O'Connell and John McMahon are doing something, but I don't know just what. Bill Barton is working in South Bend doing some chemical work.' And everything adds up to a pretty detailed re­port on that section of Indiana, now if only someone from some other place would do the same some of job—! 
"Bob Voelker rushed to typewriter with that old 'Scholastic* enthusiasm to report that he is very well satisfied with his job in the ad­vertising department of the Dumore Company in Racine. He threw in for good measure a copy of his Magnus Opus, a detailed report on how to set up a thread grinding machine. I didn't understand it. but the pictures were pretty. Bob says that Jack O'Brien, Sears in Chicago I think, bumped into Tom Boa­sart in some God-forsaken joint out in the prairie west of Chicago, but neglected to say what 'Bos* was doing. 
"Add indignant denial number one from Grahara Starr. My source of information as to his illness seemed to be in error, as Mr. Dooley carefully pointed out in the last issue. But not satisfied with that the demon reporter for the 'Tribune' banged out the following: *I don't see how your private espionage system ever got a report I was ill of pneumonia. ^Vhat really happened was that I had my appendix removed. I "wasn't really ill either, for I spent most of my spare time in the hospital gathering scientific data for a report on 'Student Nurses, Their Habits, etc.* Or maybe I'll write a feature article or something.* And if the old Walgreen terror is in his groove, we'll bet that 'Habit' business didn't mean uniform. 
"Along with the denial of death, Graham added that his other half, tiger Loa Essey, th Maxton Mauler, was running a clothing store for his father at Elizabethtown, North Carolina." If he keeps the ledgers black for a year, he will fall heir to the entire emporium. 
"Good old Edward K. Grimes, familiarly known as 'Burly,* just 'couldn't resist drop­ping a line because Dayton is alive with Notre Dame news. .. . to wit: Xast night Joe Adrian, Bob Bolr and myself of '39, and Bill Struck, *37, and Tom Kelly. '38. were guests of the Purdue Club dinner at a dinner held for Noble Kizer. We had pictures of the N.D.-Purdue game .. . they were swell . . . ^Vs reported in the ALUMNUS. I was at Studebaket's, in the engineering department, until September 10. Then T moved and came do\vn here to Dajrton. Found that Bob Bolz had been here three weeks: Joe Adrian arrived the same time T did. The three of us are employed at Wright Field (That's the material division of the Army Air Corps). We arc lister as junior aeronautical engineers; me­thinks we all like it fine. To Greg Cushing: our regards, congrats.* And it might be a good idea for us to do the same; just what Greg is doing we don't know, but all the luck and best wishes in the world. 
"And Sfr. Dooley, would it be all right to 
change the address you've KJven me 7 The postman is complaining; about the thin^;; claims that he has to figure too hard to make 521 North 15th read 251 North 15th. as it should. 
"Old roommate. Dick Anton, crashed through with another letter rcaffirminK that he is still with the Drovers Bank, is goin^ to North­western and a certain young lady's house at nights. 
"Last of the letters received was the one from Red Neumann, who st>ent some time chiding me for my choice of occupations. Just to get things straight. I am not in the dairy business any more: two clays' pay was all that I drew on a job in AVichita. Kansas. Then I rushed back to Kansas City to snap up an offer from a brokerage firm here; at present I'm in training to become a customer's man at H. O. Peet and Co—learning a great deal, and becoming more and more a rabid Republican reactionary—you should hear some of my best Rooseveltian adjectives. 
"But to get hack to Red's letter. He says: *I was down at school a fevr weeks back and went riding at the old stable. War scared Ed O'Connor out of Italy and he's back at school, U\*ing downtown. Joe Dray worked in South Bend till September and now* is at the company plant (International Business Machines) in New York until Christmas. Jim Walsh is down in South Carolina and will be home in about a month to take the Haskins-Sells job. Joe Rizd is working out of Chicago for an accounting firm; Don and Dick O'Melia are both going to Marauette (another error for last month when we had one of 'etn going to Wisconsin) and have an apartment in Mil-w-aukec with their brother John. Frank O'LaoffhIin didn't go to Oxford because of the war and is. or was. thinking of Harvard. Charlie Nelson planned to continue work at N.D.. hut there was too long a line the day of registration. John Wal«h thinks that his later job will enable him to at least brealc even. Bart O'TooIe didn't like the complaints of small town women and so gave up the credit business and came back to Chicago. Neil O'Brirn is going to pchool in Chicago. Bill McVar and Al Van Huffel are both back at N.D. Law School.' And with that 'Neum* ran don*n and out. 
"Which brings us to the editorial part of this month's labor. And the sermon is going to be on the med students; I'm sure that at least one of *em isn't so busy that he can't write. Here it is two months and still no word as to -who is where. John Dunphy's at Penn. T think, and that's the extent of infor­mation I have: but some day someone is going to brealc loose, I hope. Dnnphy, Daley, Bas­tian, McDonald, ifcGain, anybody, but please write sometime in the next few weeks. 
"And that just about runs out the month's rope. Next time I will make a determined effort to Increase the column inches; sorry not-so-good this time, but things were rather rushed. Now if we could only get a few letters. 
"Just after dropping the first draft of this second edition of 1939 misinformation into the mailbox, came the postman with three very long, and very fact-filled letters. So very full of information were they that I suppressed the first and most logical idea of making next month's column out of them—and here they are. 
"First little note was Frank Park's diatribe against journalism, among which he managed to sandn-ich in such things as: 'Adolph Kamm is junior salesman for the Mishawaka brow-er>- of the same name Beefie (the Wisconsin 
U. influence) Bcinor is assistant football and head swimming coach at his alma mater. Han-ey (Illinois) High School; he just signed to play pro ball with the St. Louis Gunners ^-on week-ends only.* 
"•Steve 0'3feara, ex. '39 (this is still Parks), is now a second year law student at Wisconsin. Harry Kaiser is and has been well since August and is working at the bank —is apparently heading for the Homecoming. Hueh Rilcy is working in Chicago for Local Loan.* 
"Then came the deluge, edited, starred, in­dexed, footnoted, and cross-referenced. Here is what the great debater found in South Bend one Saturday afternoon: *J. B. "Sam" Wheel­er is going to Kent College of Law; Jim Rocap to Indiana Law School (Frank and Tom Bulger can fight this one out); OUie Helland is working in Wisconsin Dells. Frank Fransioli is working in Gary for Carnegie-Illinois Steel and living at the K. of C. Hotel there. George Fenn (of the loaded suitcases and the raw deal) is working for the Buntc Candy Co, in Chicago and plans on returning to school next semester. Frank Gaglione is working as Phy Ed instructor at N.D. Binf Binkowski is attending Loyola I>aw School. Dick McKay is at Med School at IT. of Chi­cago, and at last report was thinking of tr>'ing out for right tackle on a certain football team. (rfne White, ex. '.^9, is at Law School at Loyola.' 
"Ending this spree of facts and detail \vas a plea for Tom O'Dea to w^rite, and to that I also add my request for a letter from the scourge of Alumni's corridors. Final blurh went like this: 'Also saw Jack Duffy, Tom Bulger. Casey, etc.. etc. including Sntton/ 
'.'We certainly want to thank Frank for the monstrous amount of information delivered and hold ourselves ready for his reply as soon as he sees this. But in the next mail delivery came Dave Aleskill's long, and very good, letter from 304 Golden Hill St., Bridge­port. Connecticut. Printing verbatim, here goes Dave. 
** 'Matt MerJcle and his brother came up to Boston for a day after STaduation and had a look at the Atlantic Matt worked in "Ta-coma's Largest Bank" for a while, but is now with the Pacific Fruit and Produce Co. in Everett, Washington. Met one of my old roomies. Julie Tonsmeire. at the Fair on G.E. day and had a regular Sorin sub session while wandering. He is working for the Arma In­strument Co.. Avorking nights right now at the Brooklyn Navy Yards running tests on gyro­scopic compasses. He has moved to Brooklyn and is liring at 1902 Cortelyou Road. Apt. GD. Saw the "Phanton roomie" of 15 Sorin. John "Crusher" Kelley several times last sum­mer, at which time he was running a produce business for his father, but was leaving for the University of Alabama to teach the South who really w-on the war (and the right way to beat Tennessee), as a graduate assistant in history. Last Saturday . night after a double-date with "Littleton's Own" Joe Sallt­van, who incidentally, is the hardest worldng rpple man in New England (5:30 a.m. to 
9:30 p.m., so he says), I met Ray Hnmn wandering around Waltham and discoi*ered that he is going to Middlesex College now. Saw* Bud Roach shortly after landing here. 

•Bud is taking it easy now, and is lucky to ha\'o escaped a bad accident last fall without fatal injuries.' 
** 'Shorty DonneUy is around, working for his father, days, and helping out the police force, evenings. Talked to Ed Carroll on the phone last week-end He is at the Harvard School of Business Administration with Frank O'Lanchlin and Bob Diedckman.' 
" "In the mail (this is still Dave): Charlie Carroll is working for a chemical company in Naugatuck. Connecticut. Ed Disscr is making good progress with the Lincoln Natinonal Life Insurance Co. in Fort Wayne; he's al­ready had a raise or two and is working into the bond and Investment line and is studying pretty hard on the side for he says, "I'm even going to know Hger Watson's stuff before I'm through." Al Sdimitz is just getting used to Nashville, working for the Equitable Life Insurance Co. Cy Reidi is with Union Car­bide in North Carolina.' 
"And then to top off the list Dave added that Lon Thornton, whom most of us remem­I>er as the Wall Street expert in Investments and Speculation (MWF 1:15) is at the novi­tiate at Rolling Prairie. Wc would like to hear from Lou, if at all jrassible. and in the meantime extend all the best wishes in the world. 
"And in this whole long letter, not once did Dave mention that he was working for Gen­eral Electric After his effort I'm almost tempted to rush out and buy a -lO-watt globe, and would if T weren't broke. 
"Last of the letters in this series came from Nisqually Indian liservation in Yelm, Wash­ington. That was almost too much for me to begin with, but then after finding that it came from that demon logician, Pete Sand-rock, things began to clear up. Pete can he reached at the Yelm address by those who have failed to answer his letters before December 
1. and after that at 2101 S.E. Yamhill St. He is 'helping to construct the transmission lines from Bonneville Dam, sur\'eying the line from Centralia to Seattle, a very beautiful sight. Tliis commuting with nature is O.K. until it starts to rain.' Pete says that news about 
N.D. is scarce in that particular bit of these United States, but that he saw Frank Lar­wood, *38. and Art Istvanoic, *39, at a Port­land U. alumni dance last week-end (just how all of these people got in this place is more than understanding permittetb). Art is teach­ing at the U. of Portland this year. If pos­sible. Pete, would like to hear from Felix Toner. 
"And that is the absolute end of this month's effort; hope that all the information is correct and that next month will see every­one accounted for. Could be, if all the post­cards are answered." 
Comes more *39 news from Bill Whelehan. new secretary of the Rochester Notre Dame Club. 
**Loaie Bemish is now working for the Eastman Kodak Company here in town. Jim Tottne5\ the man who used to supply Snider's catsup for the steaks on Saturday nights, is a salesman for that firm in New York City. Charlie Norton is lending his accounting knowledge to the Burroughs Adding Machine Company in Binghamton. New York, between week-end trips to Rochester. Vince Dollard. the old left-hander of 'B* team fame, has as­sumed the duties of physical education in­structor at St. John's in Plattsburgh. New York. Hugh Smith is employed by the Roch­ester Gas & Electric Company. Henry Jo­hantgen is busy filling prescriptions for the Cramer Drug Company," 
The Placement Bureau and others report that: Harr>* Schrocder is at Babson Institute, 110 Park Manor. Babson Park, Massachusetts; Bob Fitzsimmons is in the Harvard Law School and can be reached at 10 Andover Hall, Cambridee; Art Vcrhocstra, catcher and phar­macist, is workinR in a drug store in Elkhart. 

Bob OrtmU is in Albany Law School, Al­bany, New York. Ncal Codiran is reported to be working for a starch company in Indian­apolis. Charlie Rasor is doine accountinf; for Braun Bros. Packing Co.. Troy, Ohio. 
John Gallasher recently took an attractive engineering job with the Chicago Belting Company, Chicago, through the efforts of Ed O'TooIc, chairman of the Vocational Guidance Committee of the Notre Dame Club of Chi­cago.. Andy Wilson, after months of inten­sive effort, has crashed the New York news­paper circle: he is a copy boy on the "World-Telegram," and is very hnppy about it. 
Pharmacist Art Woods is working for Wal­green's in Lake Forest, Illinois, exclusive Chi­cago suburb, and Pharmacist Darrcl AXoore is in Went's Drug Store in Mishawiika. Phar­macist Joe McDonald is working in Woon­socket, Rhode Island, and living in Provi­dence. 
SHIFT EXPRESS OFFICE 

In order to offer greater conven­iences to the students, the Railway Express has announced that begin­ning November 3, 1939, student ex­press packages will be delivered from, and outgoing packages will be ac­cepted at, the Western Union Tele­graph office on the campus. Under this new plan. Railway Express busi­ness may be handled any time during the Western Union office business day, instead of from 12:30 to 1:00 as heretofore. 
SELEa OPENING PLAY 

"Brother Orchid," a play adapted from the short story by Richard O'Connell which appeared in Collier's magazine, will be the next dramatic production presented by the Notre Dame Players. The first production of this play was given at Catholic University. 
The three - act tragi - comedy is scheduled for presentation in Wash­ington Hall on December 14 and 15. 
1937 Lego/ Of rectory 
(Addition, and Chanses) 
V 
ILLINOIS 

Chicago 
Powers. Leo J.. LL.B., 7 5 Olis Building, 10 S. LaSalle Street 
New Alhcm 
Probst, ]. I., B.S.Ch.E., "26 
MISSOURI 

Kansas City 
O'Connor, John J., A.B., "34 The Land Bank Building 
NEW YORK 

Ne-a York City 
Brick, Daniel J., B.C5. , "S-l 200 Fifth Avenue 
VERSETOWN VARIETIES—(1927 Edition) 
By Joseph M. (Muse) Boland—Class Secretary 
Men. the amiable Mister Dooley, from his sanctum under the Dome, 
Pronounced a large pronouncement: he asked from us a tome 
Concerning "Twenty-seven," of whose men he'd heard no word— 
Now. it's not for us to question, the dictates from above 
It's just for us to answer that we're all set to shove 
The news to Mr. Dooley, before the twenty-third! 
We might proceed to action, then, altho your seek. lacks news 
Because his noble classmates have failed to send their views 
On Hitler, Stalin, Irish tackles; the Wildcats and Embargo. 
We'd like to say we have such chit-chat, alt-important trivia; 
News about your noble classmates this col's supposed to give ya. 
But here we are with yawning hold, and wnitinjr on a cargo! 
Ships must sail; mail must go through; and Dooley's screaming murder; 
So with or without dope from you, the seek, must forthwith girder 
On his armor and proceed to pound the keys. 

"Rying hard to search the crevices of a memory that still menaces 
Many guys who think the days of yore have vanished from the premises. 
Your humble servant, J. M. B.. will relay what he sees. 
Jim Vallcly, now of Nevada, with pretty wife along for help. 
Was met up with while buying tickets—and that without a yelp. 
For the Northwestern fracas, (tickets almost all sold out!) (adv.) 
Jim's fine, and going right along; at what I didn't gather— 
You see what kind of thinking comes from coaches in a lather 
About a flock of sophomores in a line he fears w^ill rout! 
The Reverend Harrj- Ryan, an "ex" of Rockefeller Hall, 
Now does his work in Iowa, in answer to the holy call 
That took him far from Ardmore, his boyhood home. 
Those Hawkeyes represent to him a problem doubly-felt: 
He needs must watch Doc Anderson, for fear the Doc will melt 
The ties still binding Harry to the boys now under the Dome. 
Tall Sebastian Berner, another from our Golden Year, 
Now moves insurance, in South Bend: of him you're bound to bear. 
Jim Hanrahan, from Frankfort. IC>'.. down where the Blue Grass grows 
Now prosecutes the criminaJ, as Dean Konop taught him to 
With Southern drawl, and soft approach, he'll do 
o r Frankfort good: as each old twenty-seven law-man knows. 
Gene Edwards, coaching at St. Vincent's College 
In AVestern P'enn's. Latrobe: now has the knowledge 
His classmates always had: his team's a honey. 

Fast halfbacks, charging linemen, protected for%\*ard passers 
Mean Gene will keep his youth, unmindful of the gassers 
Who'd really slay some coaches, much higher in the money. 
Leo R, (Butch) Herbert, checked in by Farley's mml 
He's all worked up about the Hawkeyes—wanted eight, cash on the nail. 
He's working hard at lawyering, down old Rock Island way. 
Surely therc're those among you, (harking back to Carroll Hall) 
Who recall Butch when he used to hammer, rhythmically, the call Of '"Hger Rag," on ivory keys, to make tent-dwellers sway! 
Don't write, or wire to Herb Jones: old Jonesy's in a dither He's set, with sell-outs all around him, instantly to wither 
Any alleged class-mate who calls for "just two more!" Army, Navy. Carnegie—the others close behind: Remind you. now, of w*hat Amistrong''s already called to mind. To get those ducats, you should have paid: your dues befor e ! 
Now we know that they are legion, those who've gone unmentioned: 
We'll have you know it's no fault here; was not by us intentioned. 
(How's that for stretching cross the corner to get a rhyme?) There's John Nyikos, in Boston's sales for Chevrolet—; Hugh McCafTco*, flying war-planes, in Hawaii far away; And Pittsburgh's fine Fritz Wilson, seen for just a scanty time. 
And Buck Dahman, peddling steel, in Cleveland's lake-front town; Gets together with Tom Byme, Pat Canny, Johnny Bntler. and never's any frown 
Since these lads helped, all N. D. men, to sell the Navy game. John Beidy, and Ben McAdams, all hold out with old John Cleveland. Other, unreported, we missed when, with students and with band. 
We traveled down their way for football, in a contest far from tame. 
Now this is just about the end. of this alleged poetic drivel Your scrivener must needs sign off: his size 5 head may shrivel Straining its fair locks for thoughts to pen. about the days of old We know you'll read, with charity, this work of a poetaster. Sincerely hope that it will leave you not a whit a-ghasler At what a life of coaching dees, with one-point leads to hold! 
The OFFICIAL NOTRE DAME RING 
Heavily modeled on one shank of this massive ring is the tower and dome of the Administration Building. Below ap­pears the ND monogram with crossed torches in the background, an emblem of the ideals and attainment of Notre Dame. The seal of the University stands out in striking relief on the other shank while below it crossed torches bear with those on the other side. 
Set in the oval top is a genuine garnet, sapphire, or onyx framed by the letters "University of Notre Dame." 
The official Notre Dame ring is an im­pressive ring symbolizing the strength and dignity that is Notre Dame. 
Top view of the official ring showing massive effect and beauty of the many faceted stone. 
See finger size tape 
below. 

PRICES ON OFFICIAL RINGS 
No. 25841 (lightweight I OK) onyx, sardonyx, blue onyx, green onyx genuine blue spinel, tourmaline, 
synthetic blue sapphire, synthetic ruby, synthetic emerald garnet, amethyst, topaz. 
No. 25754 (regular v/eight I OK) onyx, sardonyx, blue onyx, green onyx genuine blue spinel, tourmaline, 
synthetic blue sapphire, synthetic ruby, synthetic emerald garnet, amethyst, topaz 
 $19.00 
 21.00  23.00 
 $23.50 
 25.50  27.50 

No. 29987 (sterling) 
onyx, sardonyx 
ruby 
Actual size; view show­ing design on the op­posite shank from that displayed on the en­largement of the illus­tration above. 
$ 8.75  10.75 

amethyst, topaz, garnet 12.50 
For determining and recording finger size 
T:ikf a Ijand of firm papt'r saniL' sizi' as rinjr .--ize chart. Wrap it around the finst-'r fimily at the sorond joint. <»r around the UirKost part of the fin;;er if the joints are not prominent. Lay it i>n the rinfr size chitrt to the riwht to ;;ct your exact size. 
I5ING SIZE VO!t MEASUItlNfi FINGER 
SEND yOUR ORDER TO 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Office of fhe Comptroller 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 







